VT 
1^4) 


COHNELL  UNIVERSITY  LIBRARY 


393 


DATE   DUE 


M 

W>'' 

p» 

' 

GAYLORD 

PRINTED  IN  U.S.A. 

Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tiiis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924091207393 


In  compliance  with  current 

copyright  law,  Cornell  University 

Library  produced  this 

replacement  volume  on  paper 

that  meets  the  ANSI  Standard 

Z39.48-1992  to  replace  the 
irreparably  deteriorated  original. 

2001 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE  ENDOWMENT  FUND 

^  THE  GIFT  OF 

.    Jt  Hcnrg  W.  Sage 

1891 


B3e3n:xo. ; "sjXlh 


POPULAR   STORIES 

OF 

ANCIENT     EGYPT 


POPULAR    STORIES 


ANCIENT    EGYPT 


BY 

SIR   G.   MASPERO,   K.C.B.,   D.C.L.   OxoN., 

SECRETARY  OF  THEACADEMVOF  INSCRIPTIONS  AND  MEMBER  OFTHE  INSTITUTE  OP  FRANCE; 

PROFESSOR  AT  THE  COLLEGE  DE  FRANCE  ; 

LATE  DIRECTOR-GENERAL  OF  THE  SERVICE  OF  ANTIQUITIES  IN   EGYPT. 


TRANSLATED  BY 

MRS.    C.    H.    W.    JOHNS 

(a.    S.   GRIFFITH) 

FROM  THE  FOURTH  FRENCH  EDITION 

REVISED    BY    SIR    G.    MASPERO 


NEW  YORK:    G.    P.    PUTNAM'S   SONS 

LONDON:    H.   GREVEL  &   CO. 

1915 


H  'I  D 


PRINTED    BV 

HAZELL,    WATSON    AND    VINEY,    LD., 

LONDON   AND   AYLESBURY, 

ENGUVND . 


PREFACE  TO  ENQLISH  EDITION 

This  volume  is  not  merely  an  exact  translation  of  the 
published  French  edition.  Sir  Gaston  Maspero  has 
revised  the  work  throughout,  furnishing  in  places  new 
renderings  of  the  Egyptian  texts  and  new  readings 
of  Egyptian  names  and  titles.  An  index  of  proper 
names  has  been  added  as  weU  as  one  of  general  subjects. 

A.  S.  Johns. 

Cambridge 
1915 


CONTENTS 


Preface  to  English  Edition   . 
Introduction    .... 


PAOE 
V 


COMPLETE   STORIES 

The  Story  of  the  Two  Brothers 1 

Kjng  Khufdi  and  the  Magicians 21 

The  Lamentations  of  the  Fellah 43 

The  Memoirs  of  SiNunix          ......  68 

The  Shipwrecked  Sailor 98 

How  Thutiyi  took  the  City  of  Joppa   ....  108 

The  Cycle  of  Satni-Khamois  : 

I.    The  Adventure  of   Satni-Khamois   with  the 

Mummies      .         .        .         ,        .         .        .115 

II.    The    Veritable    History    of    Satni-KhamoIs 

AND  his  son  Senosiris         .         .        .        .144 

III.    How  Satni-Khamois  triumphed  over  the  As- 
syrians          170 

The  Cycle  of  Ramses  II  : 

I.    The  Daughter   of  the   Prince   op    Bakhtan 

and  the  Possessing  Spirit,        .        .         .172 

^>       II.    The  Exploits  of  Sesostris       ....     180 

III.    The  Exploits  of  Osimandtas   ....     183 

vii 


viii  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

The  Doomed  Prince 185 

The  Story  of  Rhampsinitus 196 

The  Voyage  or  Unamunu  to  the  Coasts  op  Syria         .     202 

The  Cycle  of  Petubastis  : 

I.    The  High  Emprise  for  the  Cuirass         .         .217 
II.    The  High  Emprise  for  the  Throne  of  Amon.     243 

FRAGMENTS 

Introductory  Note .263 

Fragment    of    a    Fantastic    Story,    anterior    to    the 

XVIIIth  Dynasty 265 

The  Quarrel  of  Apopi  and  SaqnOnriya         .         .         .     269 

Fragments  of  a  Ghost  Story 275 

Story  of  a  Mariner 280 

The    Adventure    of    the   Sculptor   PetIisis  and    King 

Nectonabo 285 

Fragments  of  the  Theban-Coptic  Version  of  the  Romance 

OF  Alexander 290 

Epigraph 304 

Index  of  Proper  Names 305 

Index  of  General  Subjects     .         .         .        .         .         .313 


INTRODUCTION 

When  a  story  of  the  Pharaonic  period  analogous  to  the  stories 
of  The.  Arabian  Nights  was  discovered  in  1852  by  M.  de  Roug6,  it 
occasioned  great   surprise   even  among  the  scholars  who  were 
supposed  to  know  most  about  Ancient  Egypt.     The  solemnity 
of  the  exalted  personages  whose  mummies  repose  in  our  museums 
was  so  well  established  by  renown,  that  no  one  suspected  them 
of  having  been  amused  by  such  frivolities  at  the  time  when  they 
were  mummies  only  in  expectation.     The  story  existed  neverthe- 
less J    the   manuscript   had  belonged  to  a  prince,  a  king's  son 
who  himself  became  King  SetuI  II,  son  of  Minephtah,  grandson 
of  Sesostris.     An  Englishwoman,  Madame  Elizabeth  d'Orbiney, 
bought  it  in  Italy,  and  on  her  way  home  through  Paris  M.  de 
Rouge  explained  the  contents  to  her.    They  concern  two  brothers, 
the  younger  of  whom,  falsely  accused  by  the  wife  of  the  other 
and  forced  to  take  to  flight,  changed  into  a  bull,  then  into  a  tree, 
and  finally  was  re-boi'n  in  the  person  of  a  king.     M.  de  Rouge 
made  a  paraphrase  of  the  text  rather  than  a  translation  ;  ^  several 
portions   were  simply   analysed,   others   were   broken   at   short 
intervals  by  numerous  lacunae,  caused  either  by  the  bad  condition 
of  the  papyrus  or  due  to  the  difficulty  encountered  in  deciphering 
certain  groups  of  signs,  or  in  disentangling  the  subtleties  of  the 
syntax ;  even  the  name  of  the  hero  is  incorrectly  transcribed.^ 
Since  that  time  no  specimen  of   Egyptian   literature  has   been 
more  minutely  studied,  or  with  greater  profit.     The   unceasing 
industry  of  scholars  has  corrected  the  errors  and  filled  in  the 

'  In  the  Revue  arclieologique,  1852,  vol.  viii,  pp.  30  et  seq.,  and  in  the 
Athencewm  franfais,  vol.  i,  1852,  pp.  280-284 ;  of.  (Euvres  diverses,  vol.  ii, 
pp.  303-319. 

^  SaUi  instead  of  Baiti.  It  was  M.  de  RougS  himself  who  later  on 
corrected  this  error. 

iz 


X  INTRODUCTION 

gaps.      To-day  the   Story   of   the    Two   Brothers   can   be    read 
consecutively,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  words,  i 

For  twelve  years  it  remained  unique  of  its  kind.  A  thousand 
relics  of  the  past  were  brought  to  light — lists  of  conquered 
provinces,  catalogues  of  royal  names,  funerary  inscriptions,  songs 
of  victory,  private  letters,  books  of  accounts,  formulae  of  magic 
incantations,  and  judicial  documents,  as  well  as  treatises  on  medicine 
and  geometry — but  nothing  resembling  a  romance.  In  1864,  near 
Deir-el-Medineh  and  in  the  tomb  of  a  Coptic  monk,  illicit  explora- 
tions brought  to  light  a  wooden  coffer,  which  besides  the  cartulary 
of  a  neighbouring  convent  contained  manuscripts  which  had 
nothing  monastic  about  them — the  moral  advice  of  a  scribe  to 
his  son,^  prayers  for  the  twelve  hours  of  the  night,  and  a  story 
yet  more  strange  than  that  of  the  Two  Brothers.  The  hero  is 
called  Satni-Khamois,  and  he  holds  debates  with  a  band  of 
talking  mummies,  sorcerers  and  magicians,  ambiguous  beings 
of  whom  one  is  doubtful  whether  they  are  living  or  dead.  It  is 
not  easy  to  see  what  could  justif  j'  the  presence  of  a  pagan  romance 
beside  the  body  of  a  monk.  We  may  conjecture  that  the  possessor 
of  the  papyri  must  have  been  one  of  the  last  of  the  Egyptians 
who  had  known  anything  of  the  ancient  writings,  and  that  at 
his  death  his  devout  companions  enclosed  in  his  grave  the  magic 
books  of  which  they  understood  nothing,  and  which  they  regarded 
as  some  unfathomable  snare  of  the  evil  one.  However  that  may 
have  been,  the  romance  was  then  incomplete  at  the  beginning, 
but  sufficiently  complete  further  on  to  be  made  out  without 
difficulty  by  a  scholar  accustomed  to  demotic'  Up  to  that 
time  the  study  of  demotic  writing  had  not  been  very  popular 
among  Egyptologists ;  the  tenuity  and  indecision  of  the  characters 
that  compose  it,  the  novelty  of  the  grammatical  forms,  and  the 
dullness  or  feebleness   of   the  subjects  dealt  with,  alarmed   or 

'  This  is  the  first  story  given  in  this  volume,  pp.  1-20. 

^  Analysed  by  Maspero  in  The  Academy  (August  1871),  and  by  Brugsch, 
Alt'dgyptische  Lebensregeln  in  einem  hieratisclien  Papyrtis  des  vice- 
kSniglichen  Museums  zu  Bulaq,  in  the  Zeitschrift,  1872,  pp.  49-51,  com- 
pletely translated  by  E.  de  Eouge,  Etude  sur  la  Papyrus  du  Musee  de 
Boulaq,  lue  a  la  seance  du  25  aout  1872,  8vo,  12  pp.  (Extrait  des  Comptes 
rendus  de  V Academic  des  Inscriptions  et  Selles-Lettres,  2*  S§rie,  vol.  vii, 
pp.  340-351),  by  Chabas,  L" Egyptologie,  vols,  i-ii,  Les  maximes  du  scribe 
Ani,  4to,  1876-1877,  and  by  Amfilineaa,  Za  Morale  ^yptienne,  8vo,  1890. 

'  The  writing  in  use  for  the  civil  and  religious  life  at  the  commencement 
of  the  XXVIth  dynasty  was  called  demotic.  It  was  deriyed  from  the 
ancient  cursive  writing  known  as  Jderatit. 


INTRODUCTION  xi 

repelled  them.  That  which  Emmanuel  de  Roug6  did  for  the 
d'Orbiney  papyrus,  Brugsch  alone  was  then  capable  of  attempting 
for  the  Boulaq  papyrus;  the  translation  published  by  him,  in 
1867,  in  the  Revue  arckeologique,  is  so  correct  that  at  the  present 
time  few  changes  have  been  made  in  it.^ 

Since  then  successive  discoveries  have  been  made.  In  1874 
Goodwin,  ferreting  haphazard  in  the  Harris  collection,  just 
acquired  by  the  British  Museum,  came  upon  the  Adverdwes 
of  the  Doomed  Prince,^  and  on  the  conclusion  of  a  tale  which 
he  regarded  as  possessing  historic  value,  notwithstanding  some 
similarity  with  the  story  of  Ali  Baba.'  Several  weeks  later 
Chabas  observed  at  Turin  what  he  thought  to  be  disconnected 
portions  of  a  kind  of  licentious  rhapsody,*  and  at  Boulaq  the 
remains  of  a  love  story.*  Immediately  afterwards,  at  Petrograd, 
GolenischefE  deciphered  three  romances,  of  which  the  texts 
are  not  yet  fully  edited.*  Then  Erman  published  a  long  story 
about  Cheops  and  the  magicians,  the  manuscript  of  which 
formerly  belonged  to  Lepsius  and  is  now  in  the  Berlin  Museum.' 
Krall  researched  in  the  fine  collection  of  the  Archduke  R6gnier, 

'  It  is  the  Adventure  of  Sgiiii- KlMllM^s_wMkthejnvii/>nmies,  pp.  115-144  of 
this  volume. 

"  Transactions  of  the  Society  of  Bihlical  ArcTueology,  vol.  iii,  pp.  349-356, 
announced  by  M.  Chabas  at  the  Acad6mie  des  Inscriptions  et  Belles-Lettres 
during  the  session  of  April  17,  1874;  of.  Comptes  retidus,  1874,  pp.  92, 
117-120,  and  pp.  185-195  of  this  volume. 

•  Transactions  of  the  Society  of  Siblical  Arehceology,  vol.  iii,  pp.  340-348. 
It  is  published  in  this  volume  under  the  title  of  How  Thutiyi  took  the 
town  ofjoppa,  pp.  108-114. 

'  Announced  by  M.  Chabas  at  the  Acad6mie  des  Inscriptions  et  Belles- 
Lettres  during  the  session  of  April  17,  1875,  and  published  under  the  title 
VEpisode  du  Jardin  des  Flews,  in  Comptes  rendus,  1875,  pp.  92, 
120-124.  The  careful  examination  I  have  made  of  the  original  has  con- 
vinced me  that  the  fragments  have  been  badly  put  together,  and  that 
they  should  be  placed  in  a  very  different  arrangement  from  that  known 
to  M.  Chabas.  They  do  not  contain  a  licentious  story,  but  love  songs 
similar  to  those  of  the  Papyrus  Harris,  No.  500  (Maspero,  Etvdes  egyptiennes, 
vol.  i,  pp.  219-220). 

'  Comptes  rendus  de  VAcademie  des  Inscriptions  et  Belles-Lettres,  1874, 
p.  124.     These  fragments  have  not  yet  been  translated  nor  even  studied. 

"  Zeitschrift  fiir  JEgyptische  Sprache  imd  Alterthumskimde,  1876, 
pp.  107-111,  under  the  title  Le  Papyrus  No.  1  de  Saint- Petersiourg,  and 
Sur  un  ancien  conte  egyptien.  Notice  lue  au  Cooigris  des  Orientalistes  d, 
Berlin,  1881,  8vo,  21  pp. ;  of.  pp.  98-107  of  the  present  volume. 

'  For  the  bibliography  and  the  story  itself  see  pp.  21-42  of  the  present 
volume. 


xii  INTRODUCTION 

and  patiently  readjusted  the  fragments  of  The  High  Emprise  for 
tlie  Cuirass}     From  the  stores  of  the  British  Museum  Griffith 
extracted  a  second  episode  of  the  cycle  of  Satni-Khimols,^  and 
Spiegelberg  acquired  for  the  University  of  Strasburg  a  Theban 
version  of  the  Ghronicle  of  King  Pettihastis}     Finally,  in  one 
of  the  Berlin  papyri  there  was  discovered  the  commencement 
of  a  fantastic  romance  that  was  so  much  mutilated  as  to  make 
it  difficult  to  be  sure  of  the  subject,*  and  on  a  series  of  ostraca 
scattered  among  the  European  museums,  fragments  of  a  ghost 
story.'     We  may  add  that  certain  works,  which  at  first  were 
regarded  as  serious  documents — the  Memoirs  of  Sinuhtt,^  the 
Lamentations   of   the  Fellah,''   the   negotiations   between    King 
Apopi   and   King    Saqnunrlya,^  the   Stda    of   the    Princess  of 
Bakhtan,^  the  Voyage  of  Unamunu  ^^ — are  in  reality  purely  works 
of  imc^gination.    Even  after  twenty  centuries  of  ruin  and  oblivion, 
Ancient  Egypt  possesses  almost  as  many  tales  as  lyric  poems  or 
hymns  addressed  to  the  deity.  


Examination  of  these  stories  raises  a  variety  of  questions 
which  are  difficult  of  solution.  How._were  they  composed  ? 
Were  they  entirely  invented  by  their  author,  or  did  he  borrow 
the  substance  of  pre-existent  works  and  rearrange  or  alter 
them  to  form  a  new  romance  ?  Several  of  them  certainly 
emanated  from  one  sole  source  and  constitute  original  work —  _' 
the  Mernoirs^  of  Sinuhit,  the  Shipwrecked  Sailor,  the  Stratagem 

'  The  discovery  was  announced  at  the  Congress  of  Orientalists  at  Geneva 
in  1894;  for  the  bibliography  see  pp.  217-219  of  the  present  volume. 

2  It  is  the  story  printed  in  pp.  144-170  of  the  present  volume. 

'  For  the  story  see  pp.  243-262  of  the  present  volume. 

*  Lepsius,  Denlivialer,  Part  VI,  pi.  112,  and  pp.  265-268  of  this  volume. 

''  Two  in  the  Florence  Museum  (GolenischefE,  Notice  sur  un  ostracon 
Jderatiqiie,  in  the  JSseueil,  vol.  iii,  pp.  3-7),  one  in  the  Louvre  (Beaueil, 
vol.  iii,  p.  7),  one  in  the  Vienna  Museum  (Bergmann,  Eieratisclie  und 
Hieratisch-denwtische  Texte  der  Sammlung  JEgyptiscJier  AtterthuTner  des 
Allerhoohsten  Kaiserhauses,  pi.  iv,  p.  vi);  cf.  pp.  275-279  of  this  volume. 

"  Lepsius,*  Denkmdler,  Part  VI,  pi.  104-106,  and  pp.  68-97  of  this 
volume. 

^  IHd.,  pi.  108-110,  113-114;  for  the  bibliography  see  pp.  43-46  of 
this  volume. 

»  Papyrus  Sallier  1,  pi.  1-3;  pi.  2  verso;  see  pp.  269-274  of  this  volume. 

'  See  pp.  172-179  of  this  volume. 
'"  Published  in  pp.  202  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 


INTRODUCTION'  xiii 

of  Thutiyt  against  Joppa,  the  Stori/  of  the  Dporrveid  I^rince.  A 
continuous" "  act;(>p  is  carried  through  from  the  first  line  to  the 
last,  and  where  episodes  are  introduced  they  are  only  necessary 
developments  of  the  main  scheme,  mediums  without  which  it 
could  not  arrive  safely  at  the  denouement.  Others,  on  the 
contrary,  divide  almost  naturally  into  two,  three  or  more  parts, 
which  originally  were  independent,  and  between  which  the 
author  has  often  established  an  arbitrary— connection  in  order 
to  include  them  within  the  same  story.  For  instance,  each 
of  those  which  treat  of  Satni-Khamois  contains  the  subject- 
matter  of  two  romances — that  of  Nenoferkepbtah  and  that  of 
Tbubui  in  the  first,  that  of  the  descent  into  the  Inferno  and  that 
of  the  Ethiopian  magicians  in  the  second.  The  most  obvious 
example,  however,  of  an  artificial  comgositipji -that  we  possess 
up  to  the  present  time  is  that  afforded  by  the  story  of  Khufui 
and  the  magicians.^ 

i'rom  the  first  it  resolves  itself  into  two  elements :  the  glorifi- 
cation of  several  magicians,  living  or  dead,  and  a  miraculous 
version  of  the  events  that  led  to  the  downfall  of  the  IVth 
and  the  rise  of  the  Vth  dynasty.  We  should  perhaps  under- 
stand better  what  caused  the  author  to  combine  them  if  we 
possessed  the  first  pages  of  the  manuscript ;  in  its  present 
condition  conjecture  is  dangerous.  It  appears,  however,  that 
it  was  not  compiled  all  at  one  time,  but  was  formed  as  it  were 
in  two  stages.  At  some  period  which  we  cannot  now  determine, 
there  were  perhaps  half  a  dozen  stories  circulating  in  Memphis 
or  the  neighbourhood,  which  had  for  their  heroes  sorcerers  of 
a  long  past  time.  An  unknown  rhapsodist  decided  to  compile 
a  collection  of  these  in  chronological  order,  and  in  order  to 
effect  this  successfully  he  had  recourse  to/ a  method  which  was 
one  of  those  held  in  highest  honour  in  Oriental  literature.| 
He  set  forth  that  Cheops,  one  of  the  popular  Pharaohs,  once 
was  struck  with  the  idea  of  demanding  something  from  his  sons 
to  distract  the  ennui  with  which  he  was  beset.  The  sons  roseV 
up  one  after  another  in  his  presence,  and  boasted  in  turn  of 
the  prowess  of  various  sorcerers  of  bygone  times ;  Dadufhoru 
alone,  the  last  of  them,  chose  as  his  subject  the  praise  of  a 
living  man.  On  considering  this  part  more  closely  we  see  that 
the  sages  were  all  chief  men  of  the  book,  or  of  the  roll,  to  Pharaoh, 
that  is  to  say,  men  with  an  official  standing,  who  possessed 
their  rank  in  the  hierarchy,  while  the  contemporary  Didu  bore 
'  See  pp.  21-42  of  the  present  volume. 


xiv  INTRODUCTION 

no   title.      He   was   a   mere    provincial   who   had   attained   to 

extreme  old  age  without  having  enjoyed  court   favours ;    that 

the  prince  knew  him  was  owing  to  his  being  himself  an  adept 

and  having  travelled  over  the  whole  of  Egypt  in  search  of  ancient 

writings  or  of  men  of  learning  capable  of  interpreting  them.' 

He  thereupon  journeyed  to  the  house  of  his  prot6g6  and  brought 

him  to  his  father,  that  he  might  perform   some   miracle  even 

more  amazing  than  those  of  his  predecessors ;  Didu  refused  to 

meddle  with  a  man,  but  he  restored  a  goose  and  a  bull  to  life, 

and  then  returned  home  full  of  honours.     The  first  collection 

of  stories  undoubtedly  ended  here,  and  formed  a  work  complete 

in  itself.     But  at  the  same  period  and  in  the  same  locality  there 

was  a  story  of   three   children,  triplets,  sons   of  the   sun   and 

of  a  priestess  of  B,k,.     They  eventually   become  the  first  kings 

of  the  Vth  dynasty.     Did  Didu  originally  play  some  part  here  ? 

At  any  i-ate  the  author  to  whom  we  are  indebted  for  this  present 

\      redaction  selected  him  as  the   link  in   the   transition  between 

\     the  two  chronicles.     He  set  forth  that,  having  been  present  at 

the  resurrection  of  the  goose  and  the  bull,  Cheops  afterwards 

requested  Didu  to  procure  him  the  books  of  Thoth.     Didu  did 

not  deny  that  he  knew  them,  but  he  declared  that  there  was 

only  one   man  who   was   capable   of   ensuring   their   possession 

to  the  king — the  eldest   of  the  three  boys  who  at  that  time 

were  in  the  womb  of  a  priestess  of  Ra,  and  who  were  destined 

to  reign  at  the  end  of  four  generations.     Cheops  was  perturbed 

by  this  disclosure,  as  was  only  natural ;  and  he  inquired  at  what 

date  the   children  .  should  be   born.      Didu  told  him  and  then 

returned  to  his  village.     The  author  left  him  at  this  point,  and 

turned   immediately  to  the  destinies  of  the   priestess   and   her 

family. 

The  author  did  not  worry  himself  long  as  to  the  method  of 
making  this  transition ;  and  he  was  right,  for  his  auditors  or  his 
readers  were  not  difficult  to  please  in  the  matter  of  literary 
composition.  They  asked  to  be  amused,  and  provided  that  it 
was  done,  they  did  not  trouble  themselves  as  to  the  means  by 
which  it  was  accomplished.  The  Egyptian  romancers  therefore 
felt  no  scruples  in  appropriating  the  stories  that  were  current 
in  their  neighbourhood  and  arranging  them  as  they  would, 
complicating  them  when  necessary  with  episodes  that  were 
absent  from  the  first  redaction  or  reducing  them  to  the  position 
of  secondary  episodes  in  a  different  cycle  from  that  to  which 
'  Cf.  p.  24,  n.  2,  p.  33,  n.  2,  p.  117,  n.  2,  and  p.  148  of  the  present  volume. 


INTRODUCTION  xv 

they  originally  belonged.  Many  of  the  elements  which  they 
combine  are  essentially  Egyptian,  but  they  also  utilised_athers 
which  Mejfound_in_the_literature  of_jieighbourii^_geo£les,  and 
which  they  had  perhaps  borrowed  from  abroad.  We  remember 
in  the  Gospel  according  to  St.  Luke  the  rich  man,  clothed  in  purple 
and  fine  linen,  who  feasted  sumptuously  every  day,  while  at  his 
gate  lay  Lazarus  full  of  sores  and  desiring  in  vain  to  be  fed 
with  the  crumbs  that  fell  from  the  rich  man's  table.  "  And 
it  came  to  pass  that  the  beggar  died  and  was  carried  by  the 
angels  into  Abraham's  bosom,  and  the  rich  man  also  died  and 
was  buried ;  and  in  hell  he  lift  up  his  eyes,  being  in  torments, 
and  seeth  Abraham  afar  off  and  Lazarus  in  his  bosom."  ^  In  the 
second  romance  of  Satni-Khamois,  we  read  an  Egyptian  version 
of  this  parable  of  the  Evangelist,  but  there  it  is  dramatised  and 
amalgamated  with  another  popular  conception,  that  of  the 
descent  of  a  Kving  man  into  hell.-  Without  insisting  on  this 
subject  for  the  moment,  I  would  remark  that  many  of  the  motifs 
developed  by  Egyptian  writers  are  held  by  them  in  common 
with  story  tellers  of  foreign  nations,  both  ancient  and  modern. 
If  you  will  analyse  the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers  and  endeavour 
to  define  its  internal  structure,  you  will  be  amazed  to  find  to  what 
extent  it  resembles,  in  its  general  bearing  and  in  its  details, 
certain  stories  which  are  in  circulation  among  other  nations. 

At  the  first  glance  we  see  that  it  is  double :  the  story  teller, 
too  idle  or  too  devoid  of  imagination  to  invent  a  tale,  chose  two 
from  among  those  transmitted  to  him  by  his  predecessors  and 
has,  more  or  less  awkwardly,  placed  them  one  at  the  end  of 
the  other,  contenting  himself  with  introducing  various  small 
incidents  that  in  some  measure  facilitated  their  contact.  The 
veracious  history  of  Satni-Khamols  is  in  the  same  way  a 
junction  of  two  romances,  the  descent  into  hell,  and  the  adven- 
ture of  King  SiamS.nu.  The  redactor  has  united  them  by 
supposing  Senosiris  of  the  first  to  be  reincarnated  in  Horus, 
who  was  the  hero  of  the  second  part.'  The  Stori/  of  the  Two  ' 
Brothers  first  brings  on  the  scene  two  brothers,  one  married,  the 
other  single,  who  Kved  together  and  followed  the  same  occupation. 
The  wife  of  the  elder  brother  fell  in  love  with  the  younger  one 

'  Gospel  according  to  St.  Duke,  xvi,  19-23. 

'  Maspero,  Contet  relatifs  aux  gremd-pretres  de  Memphis,  in  the  Journal 
des  SamanU,  1901,  p.  496. 

'  The  first  story  is  to  be  found  on^pp.  145-153  of  this  volume,  the  second 
on  pp.  157-170,  and  the  transition  on  pp.  153-157. 


xvi  \  ■  \  INTRODUCTION 

..:*'  \ 

on  observing  his  unusual  strength,  and  took  advantage  of  the 
absence  of  her  husband  to  give  way  to  a  sudden  access  of  untamed 
passion.  Eaiti  refused  her  advances  with  anger ;  she  accused  him 
of  assaulting  her,  and  did  this  with  so  much  skill  that  her  husband 
decided  to  kill  his  brother  by  treachery.  The  cattle  that  he  was 
bringing  back  to  the  stable  having  warned  him  of  the  peril, 
the  younger  brother  fled  and  escaped  his  pursuer,  thanks  to  the 
protection  aiTorded  him  by  the  Sun ;  he  mutilated  himself,  and 
exculpated  himself,  but  he  refused  to  return  to  their  mutual 
home,  and  exiled  himself  to  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia.  Anupu 
returned  home  deeply  grieved ;  he  put  his  calumniating 
wife  to  death,  and  then  "dwelt  mourning  for  his  younger 
brother."  i 

So  far  the  marvellous  does  not  occupy  too  large  a  place  ;  with 
the  exception  of  some  remarks  made  by  the  cattle,  and  a  piece 
of  water  fuU  of  crocodiles  that  suddenly  arose  between  the  two 
brothers,  the  narrator  employs  incidents  borrowed  from  ordinary 
life.  The  remainder  is  nothing  but  marvels  from  beginning  to 
end  2  Baiti  has  returned  to  the  Valley  to  live  in  solitude,  and  he 
has  placed  his  heart  on  a  flower  of  the  Acacia.  This  is  a  most 
natural  precaution,  to  enchant  one's  heart,  and  put  it  in  a  safe 
place  such  as  a  tree-top  ;  so  long  as  it  remained  there,  no  force 
could  prevail  against  the  body  that  it  animated  even  in  that 
position.^  The  gods,  however,  come  down  to  visit  the  earth, 
pity  Baiti  in  his  solitude,  and  fashion  a  wife  for  him.*  As  he  loves 
her  to  distraction,  he  confides  his  secret  to  her,  and  he  commands 
her  not  to  leave  the  house,  as  the  Nile  that  waters  the  valley 
is  enamoured  of  her  beauty  and  will  certainly  wish  to  carry 
her  off.     This  confidence   imparted,  he  goes  off   to  hunt,  and 

'  This  first  story  occupies  pp.  3-11  of  the  present  volume. 

'  It  extends  from  pp.  11-20  of  the  present  volume. 

'  This  is  the  idea  of  the  body  without  a  soul,  which  occurs  frequently 
in  popular  literature.  Le  Page  Kenouf  has  collected  a  number  of  examples 
of  it  in  Zeitsohri/t  (1871,  pp.  136  et  seq.)  and  in  the  Proceedings  of  the 
Society  of  Biblical  ArchtBology  (vol.  xi,  pp.  177  et  seq.  reproduced  in  Le 
Page  Eenouf's  Life-Work,  vol.  i,  pp.  442  et  seq,,  and  vol.  ii,  pp.  311  et  seq.). 

*  Hyacinthe  Husson,  who  has  studied  Tlie  Tale  of  the  Two  Brotliers  fairly 
closely  (  La  Chaine  traditionnelle,  Contes  et  Legendes  au  point  de  vue  mythique, 
Paris  1874,  p.  91),  has  aptly  compared  the  creation  of  this  female  by 
Khnumu,  and  the  creation  of  Pandora,  fashioned  by  Hephaestion  by  order 
of  Zeus.  "  Both  these  women  are  endowed  with  all  the  gifts  of  beauty  ; 
nevertheless  both  are  fatal,  one  to  her  husband,  the  other  to  the  entire 
human  race."  In  the  part  played  by  the  river  there  seems  to  be  an 
allusion  to  the  custom  of  making  a  Sride  of  the  Nile. 


INTRODUCTION  xvii 

she  immediately  disobeys  him.  The  Nile  pursues  her  and  would 
have  taken  possession  of  her,  if  the  Acacia,  who  in  some  way  not 
entirely  explained  acts  the  part  of  protector,  had  not  saved  her 
by  throwing  a  lock  of  her  hair  into  the  water.  ThLs,  carried  as 
flotsam  into  Egypt,  was  taken  to  Pharaoh,  and  he  on  the  advice 
of  the  magicians  sent  in  search  of  the  daughter  of  the  gods. 
Force  miscarried  the  first  time,  but  on  a  second  attempt  treachery 
was  successful,  the  Acacia  was  cut  down,  and  as  soon  as  it  fell 
Baiti  died.  For  three  years  he  remained  inanimate ;  during  the 
fourth  he  revived  with  the  help  of  Anupu,  and  determined  to 
avenge  himself  for  the  crime  of  which  he  had  been  the  victim. 
Henceforth  there  is  a  struggle  of  magic  power  and  malicious 
spite  between  the  injured  husband  and  the  faithless  wife.  Baiti 
changes  into  a  bull ;  the  daughter  of  the  gods  contrives  that 
the  bull's  throat  shall  be  cut.  When  the  blood  touches  the 
ground  two  persea  trees  spring  up,  that  find  words  to  denounce 
the  perfidious  woman ;  the  daughter  of  the  gods  contrives  that 
the  trees  shall  be  cut  down,  to  be  made  into  furniture,  and  in 
order  to  taste  the  joys  of  vengeance,  she  is  present  while  it  is 
done.  A  chip  sent  flying  by  the  carpenter's  adze  enters  her 
mouth,  she  conceives,  and  bears  a  son  who  succeeds  Pharaoh, 
and  who  is  Balti  reincarnated.  As  soon  as  he  ascends  the 
throne  he  assembles  the  counsellors  of  state,  and  states  his 
wrongs.  He  then  sends  to  execution  the  woman  who  after  being 
his  wife  had,  without  desiring  it,  become  his  mother.  Thus  in 
this  tale  there  is  the  material  of  two  distinct  romances,  of  which 
the  first  presents  the  idea  of  a  servant  accused  by  the  mistress 
whom  he  has  scorned,  while  the  second  depicts  the  metamorphoses 
of  the  husband  betrayed  by  his  wife.  Popular  imagination  has 
united  the  two  by  a  third  motif — that  of  the  man  or  demon  who 
conceals  his  heart,  and  dies  when  an  enemy  discovers  it.  Before 
expatriating  himself  Baiti  had  asserted  that  a  misfortune  would 
shortly  overtake  him,  and  described  the  marvels  that  would 
announce  the  bad  tidings  to  his  brother.  These  occurred  at  the 
moment  that  the  Acacia  fell,  and  Anupu  departed  with  speed  to 
search  for  the  heart.  The  help  given  by  him  at  this  juncture 
compensates  for  his  previous  attempt  to  murder  his  brother, 
and  forms  the  link  between  the  two  stories. 

Greek  tradition  also  possessed  stories  where  the  hero  is  slain  or 

menaced  with  death  for  having  refused  the  favours  of  unfaithful 

wives,  Hippolytus,  Peleus,  and  Phineus.     Bellerophon,  the  son  of 

Glaucus,  "  to  whom  the  gods  gave  beauty  and  a  kindly  vigour," 

2 


xviii  INTRODUCTION 

repelled  the  advances  of  the  divine  Anteia,  who,  furious,  spoke 
thus  to  King  Proetus :  "  Die,  Proetus,  or  slay  Bellerophon,  who 
wished  to  unite  in  love  with  me,  who  did  not  desire  it."  Proetus 
despatched  the  hero  to  Lycia,  where  he  imagined  the  Ohimsera 
would  rid  him  of  him.i  The  Bible  records  in  detail  an  incident 
similar  to  that  in  the  Egyptian  tale.  Joseph  dwelt  in  Potiphar's 
house,  as  Balti  did  in  that  of  Anupu.  "  Joseph  was  a  goodly 
person  and  well  favoured ;  and  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things 
that  his  master's  wife  cast  her  eyes  upon  Joseph ;  and  she  said, 
'  Lie  with  me.'  But  he  refused,  and  said  unto  his  master's  wife, 
'  Behold,  my  master  wotteth  not  what  is  with  me  in  the  house, 
and  he  hath  committed  all  that  he  hath  to  my  hand ;  there  is 
none  greater  in  this  house  than  I  ;  neither  hath  he  kept  back 
anything  from  me  but  thee,  because  thou  art  his  wife  :  how,  then, 
can  I  do  this  great  wickedness,  and  sin  against  God  ? '  And  it 
came  to  pass,  as  she  spake  to  Joseph  day  by  day,  that  he 
hearkened  not  unto  her,  to  lie  by  her,  or  to  be  with  her.  And 
it  came  to  pass  about  this  time,  that  Joseph  went  into  the  house 
to  do  his  business,  and  there  was  none  of  the  men  of  the  house 
there  within  ;  and  she  caught  him  by  his  garment,  saying,  '  Lie 
with  me ' ;  and  he  left  his  garment  in  her  hand,  and  fled,  and  got 
him  out.  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  saw  that  he  had  left 
his  garment  in  her  hand,  and  was  fled  forth,  that  she  called  unto 
the  men  of  her  house,  and  spake  unto  them,  saying,  '  See,  he 
hath  brought  in  a  Hebrew  unto  us  to  mock  us  ;  he  came  in  unto 
me  to  lie  with  me,  and  I  cried  with  a  loud  voice  :  and  it  came  to 
pass,  when  he  heard  that  I  lifted  up  my  voice  and  cried,  that 
he  left  his  garment  with  me,  and  fled,  and  got  him  out.  And 
she  laid  up  his  garment  by  her,  until  his  lord  came  home ;  and 
she  spake  unto  him  according  to  these  words,  saying,  '  The 
Hebrew  servant,  which  thou  hast  brought  unto  us,  came  in  unto 
me  to  mock  me :  and  it  came  to  pass,  as  I  lifted  up  my  voice 
and  cried,  that  he  left  his  garment  with  me,  and  fled  out.'  And 
it  came  to  pass,  when  his  master  heard  the  words  of  his  wife, 
which  she  spake  unto  him,  saying,  '  After  this  manner  did  thy 
servant  unto  me ' ;  that  his  wrath  was  kindled.  And  Joseph's 
master  took  him,  and  put  him  into  the  prison,  a  place  where  the 
king's  prisoners  were  bound,  and  he  was  there  in  the  prison."  ^ 
Comparison   of    this  with  the  Tale  of  the   Two   Brothers  is  so 

'  Iliad,  Z.,  155-210.    Hyacinthe  Husson  has  already  made  this  com- 
parison (i(t  Chaine  traditionnelle,  p.  87). 
'  Genesis  xxxix,  C-20. 


INTRODUCTION  xix 

natural,  that  it  was  made  by  M.  de  Rouge  as  early  as  1852.' 
But  the  attempted  seduction,  the  guilty  fears  of  the  temptress, 
her  shame,  her  meditated  revenge,  are  simple  ideas  that  might 
occur  independently  to  the  teller  of  popular  stories  in  many 
quarters  of  the  globe  at  the  same  time.'  We  need  not  regard 
Joseph's  adventure  as  the  variant  of  a  story  of  which  the 
d'Orbiney  Papyrus  gives  the  version  current  in  Thebes  towards 
the  end  of  the  XlXth  dynasty. 

It  may  perhaps  be  well  to  treat  with   the  same  caution  a 
story  of  the  Arabian  Nights  which  has  some  analogy  with  the 
Two   Brothers.      The   primitive  theme  is   here   duplicated   and 
aggravated  in  a  singular  manner  :  instead  of  a  sister-in-law,  who 
offers  herself  to  her  brother-in-law,  there  are  two  stepmothers 
who  attempt  to  debauch   the  sons  of    their  common  husband. 
Prince  Kamaralzaman  had  Amgi^d  by  the  Princess  Badur,  and 
Ass^d  by  the  Princess  Haiat-en-nefus.     Amgiid  and  Assid  were 
so  beautiful  that  from  infancy  they  inspired  the  sultanas  with 
inconceivable  aflfection.     As   the  years  passed,  that  which  had 
appeared  to  be  maternal  affection  developed  into  violent  passion ; 
instead  of  struggling  against  their  criminal  longings,  Badur  and 
Hai'3,t-en-Nefus  concerted  together  and  declai-ed   their   love  in 
letters  very  unequivocal  in  style.     Repelled  with  horror,  they 
feared  denunciation  and,  like  the  wife  of  Anupu,  they  pretended 
that  violence  had  been  attempted.     They  wept,  they  cried,  to- 
gether they   flung   themselves   on   the    same   bed,    as  if    their 
strength   were  exhausted   by   resistance.      The   next    morning, 
Xamaralzaman,  returned  from  hunting,  found  them  bathed  in 
tears,  and  inquired  of   them  the  cause  of   their  sorrow.     The 
reply  may  be  guessed.      "  My  lord,  the  grief  that  overpowers 
us  is  of  such  a  nature  that  we  can  no  longer  endure  the  light 
of  day  after  the  outrage  which  the  two  princes,  your  children, 
have  been  guilty  of  towards  us.     During  your  absence  they  have 
had  the  audacity  to  attempt  our  honour."      Then  follows  the 
wrath  of  the  father,  and  sentence  of  death  against  the  sons ; 
the   aged  emir  charged  with   their  execution   did  not   execute 
them,  as  otherwise  there  would  have  been  an  end  of  the  story. 
Kamaralzaman  shortly  afterwards  recognised   the  innocence  of 
Amgi&d  and  Assad,  but  instead  of  killing  his  two  wives  he  con- 
tented himself  with  imprisoning  them  for  the  remainder  of  their 

'  Notice  sur  un  ■manuscrit  egyptien,  p.  7,  note  5  (of.  (Euvres  diverset, 
vol.  ii,  p.  308,  note  2),  but  without  insisting  on  the  points  of  resemblance. 
'  Ebers,  Mgypten  wnd  die  JBUcher  Moses,  1868,  vol.  i,  p.  316. 


XX  INTRODUCTION 

lives.*  It  is  the  plot  of  the  Story  of  the  Two  Brothers,  but 
adapted  to  the  requirements  of  Mohammedan  polygamy.  Modi- 
fied in  this  manner,  it  has  gained  nothing  either  in  interest  or 
morality.^ 

The  versions  of  the  second  story  are  more  numerous  and  more 
strange.'  One  meets  with  them  everywhere — in  France,*  in  Italy,' 
in  different  parts  of  Gtermany,*  in  Transylvania,'  in  Hungary,^  in 
Russia  and  in  the  Slavonic  countries,'  among  the  Roumanians, i**  in 
the  Peloponnesus,!!  in  Asia  Minor,''  in  Abyssinia,*'  and  in  India.** 

'  Arabian  Nights:  "The  History  of  Prince  Amgiid  and  Prince  AssSd." 

'  A  Pahlavi  version  of  this  first  of  the  two  stories  embodied  in  the 
Orbiney  Papyrus  has  been  observed  by  Noldeke,  GcschicMe  des  Artaohshir 
i  Papakdn,  in  the  Beitrdge  zur  Kunde  der  indogermanischen  Spraelien, 
vol.  iv,  1879. 

'  They  have  been  collected  and  discussed  by  M.  Emmanuel  Cosquin, 
in  his  article  TTii  probleme  historique  a  propos  du  conte  egyptien  des  deux 
Freres  {Extraitde  la  Remt-e  des  Questio7is  historiques,  Oct.  1877,  Tirage 
i.  part,  8vo,  15  p.) ;  I  have  most  scrupulously  indicated  on  each  occasion 
the  references  borrowed  by  me  from  this  fine  memoir.  Le  Page  Eenouf 
has  introduced  the  greater  part  of  these  stories  into  the  article  of  the 
Proceedings  indicated  by  me  above,  p.  xvi,  note  3  of  the  present  volume. 

*  Cabinet  des  FSes,  vol.  xxxi,  pp.  233  et  seg.,  after  E.  Cosquin. 

'  Giambattista  Basile,  II  Pentamerone,  No.  49,  after  E.  Cosquin. 

'  In  Hesse,  J.  W.  Wolff,  Deutsche  Mausmwrchen,  Gottingen,  1851,  pp.  494 
et  seg. 

'  In  Transylvania,  J.  Haltdrich,  Deutsche  Volksmdrchen  aus  dem,  Saehsen- 
lande  in  Siebenbilrgen,  Berlin,  1856,  No.  1,  after  E.  Cosquin  ;  cf.  Le  Page 
Renouf,  Life-work,  vol.  iii,  p.  319-321. 

'  O.  L.  B.  Wolff,  Die  scliJinsten  Marchen  und  Sagen  aller  Zeiten  und 
Tolher,  Leipzig,  1850,  vol.  i,  p.  229  seg.;  Gaal  and  Stier,  JJngarische 
Volksmdrchen,  Pest,  1857,  No.  7,  after  E.  Cosquin ;  Majlath,  Magyarisclie 
Sagen,  vol.  ii,  p.  195  ;  cf.  Le  Page  Renouf,  Life  Work,  vol.  iii,  p.  321. 

'  In  Lithuania,  Alex.  Chodzko,  Paris,  1864,  p.  368,  after  E.  Cosquin  ; 
in  Eussia  the  work  of  Alfred  Eambaud,  La  Bussie  epique,  Paris,  1876, 
pp.  377-380. 

'"  Franz  Obert,  Romanische  Mdrchen  und  Sagen  aus  Siebenbilrgen,  in 
Ausland,  1858,  p.  118;  Arthur  and  Albert  Schott,  Walachisclw  Mdrchen, 
Stuttgart,  1845,  No.  8,  p.  322,  after  E.  Cosquin ;  cf .  Lepage-Eenouf,  Life- 
work,  vol.  iii,  p.  319. 

"  P.  d'Estournelles  de  Constant,  La  vie  de  province  en  Grece,  Paris, 
1878,  pp.  260-292,  and  the  Bulletin  de  V Association  pour  Vencowagement 
des  Etudes  grecques  en  France,  1878,  pp.  118-123. 

"  J.  G.  von  Hahn.  Grieehisclie  v/nd  Albanesisclie  Mdrchen,  Leipzig,  1864, 
No.  49,  after  E.  Cosquin. 

"  Leo  Eeinisch,  Das  Volk  der  Salto,  in  the  Osterreichisclie  Monatschrift 
filr  den  Orient,  1877,  No.  5. 

"  M.  Frere,  Old  Deooan  Days,  or  Hindoo  Fairy  Legends,  London,  1868, 
No.  6,  after  B.  Cosquin. 


INTRODUCTION  xxi 

In  Germany,  Baiti  is  a  shepherd,  possessor  of  an  invincible 
sword.  A  princess  deprives  him  of  his  talisman;  he  is  con- 
quered, slain,  cut  in  pieces,  and  then  brought  to  life  again  by 
enchanters  who  grant  him  the  power  to  "assume  all  the  forms 
that  please  him."  He  changes  into  a  horse.  Sold  to  the  king 
who  is  his  enemy  and  recognised  by  the  princess,  who  insists 
that  he  shall  be  decapitated,  he  secures  on  his  behalf  the 
assistance  of  the  cook  of  the  castle.  "  When  my  head  is  cut 
off,  three  drops  of  my  blood  wiU  fall  on  thy  apron ;  thou  shalt 
put  them  in  the  ground  for  love  of  me."  The  next  day  a  superb 
cherry-tree  has  grown  on  the  very  spot  where  the  three  drops 
had  been  buried.  The  princess  cuts  down  the  cherry-tree ;  the 
cook  collects  three  chips  and  throws  them  into  the  pool,  where 
they  change  into  so  many  golden  drakes.  The  princess  kills  two 
of  them  with  arrows,  seizes  the  third  and  imprisons  it  in  her 
chamber;  during  the  night  the  drake  regains  possession  of  the 
sword  and  disappears.*  In  Russia  Baiti  is  named  Ivan  son  of 
Germain  the  sacristan.  He  finds  a  magic  sword  in  a  bush,  he 
goes  off  to  fight  the  Turks  who  have  invaded  the  country  of 
Arinar,  and  slays  eighty  thousand  of  them ;  as  the  reward  of 
his  exploits  he  is  given  the  hand  of  Cleopatra,  the  king's 
daughter.  His  father-in-law  dies,  and  he  is  king  in  his  turn, 
but  his  wife  betrays  him  and  gives  over  the  sword  to  the  Turks  ; 
when  Ivan,  thus  disarmed,  perishes  in  battle,  she  abandons  herself 
to  the  Sultan,  as  the  daughter  of  the  gods  does  to  Pharaoh. 
Nevertheless  Germain  the  sacristan,  warned  by  a  flow  of  blood 
that  spouted  out  in  the  middle  of  the  stable,  sets  ofi"  and  recovers 
the  body.  "  If  thou  desirest  to  restore  him  to  life,''  says  the 
horse,  "  open  my  body,  take  out  my  entrails,  rub  the  dead  man 
with  my  blood,  then  when  the  ravens  come  to  devour  my  body, 
take  one  of  them  and  force  it  to  bring  to  thee  the  marvellous 
water  of  life."  Ivan  revives  and  dismisses  his  father  :  "  Return 
to  thy  house ;  I  take  upon  myself  to  settle  my  account  with 
the  foe."  On  the  way  he  perceives  a  peasant :  "  I  will  change 
myself  for  thee  into  a  marvellous  horse  with  a  mane  of  gold ; 
thou  shalt  lead  it  in  front  of  the  palace  of  the  Sultan."  The 
Sultan  sees  the  horse,  shuts  it  up  in  the  stable  and  goes  to 
admire  it  continually.  "  Why,  my  lord,"  says  Cleopatra,  "  are 
you  continually  in  the  stables  ?  "  "I  have  bought  a  horse  that 
has  a  golden  mane."     "  That  is  not  a  horse — that  is  Ivan,  the 

'  J.  W.  Wolff,  Veutse/ie  Bausvidrchen,  Gottingen,  1851,  8vo,  p.  394,  after 
E.  Cosquin. 


xxii  INTRODUCTION 

son  of  the  sacristan :  command  that  he  shall  be  slain."  An  ox 
with  a  golden  coat  is  born  of  the  blood  of  the  horse  ;  Cleopatra 
has  its  throat  cut.  From  the  head  of  the  ox  springs  an  apple 
tree  with  golden  apples ;  Cleopatra  has  it  cut  down.  The  first 
chip  that  the  axe  sends  flying  from  the  trunk  changes  into  a 
magnificent  drake.  The  Sultan  gives  orders  that  it  shall  be 
chased,  and  he  himself  jumps  into  the  water  to  catch  it,  but 
the  drake  escapes  to  the  other  side.  He  there  assumes  once  more 
the  form  of  Ivan,  with  the  garments  of  the  Sultan ;  he  throws 
Cleopatra  and  her  lover  on  to  a  funeral  pyre  and  then  reigns  in 
their  place. '^ 

Here,  after  an  interval  of  more  than  three  thousand  years, 
are  unmistakably  the  main  outlines  of  the  Egyptian  version.  If 
we  take  the  trouble  to  examine  the  details,  analogies  equally 
striking  can  be  found  everywhere.  The  lock  of  hair  intoxicates 
Pharaoh  with  its  perfume ;  in  a  Breton  story,  the  luminous  lock 
of  hair  belonging  to  the  princess  of  Tremeneazour  causes  the 
King  of  Paris  to  fall  in  love.^  Baiti  places  his  heart  on  the 
Acacia  flower ;  in  the  Pantchatantra,  an  ape  remarks  that  he 
never  leaves  his  forest  without  leaving  his  heart  concealed  in 
the  hollow  of  a  tree.'  Anupu  is  informed  of  the  death  of 
Baiti  by  a  sign  arranged  beforehand,  the  disturbance  of  the 
wine  and  beer;  in  several  European  stories  a  brother  start- 
ing on  a  journey  informs  his  brother  that  on  the  day  when 
the  water  in  a  certain  vial  is  troubled,  they  will  know  that 
he  is  dead.*  And  it  is  not  only  the  popular  literature 
that  has  the  equivalent  of  these  incidents ;  the  religions  of 
Greece  and  of  Western  Asia  include  legends  that  may  be  com- 
pared with  them  at  almost  every  point.  Merely  to  quote  the 
Phrygian  myth,  Atys  disdained  the  love  of  the  goddess  Cybele, 
as  Baiti  did  that  of  the  wife  of  Anupu,  and,  like  Baiti,  he 
mutilated  himself  * ;    and  as  Baiti,  by  a  series  of  changes,  was 

'  Eambaud,  La  Russle  ejjique,  pp.  377-380.  A  Hungarian  legend,  quoted 
by  Cosquin,  p.  5,  presents  only  slight  variations  from  the  German  and 
Russian  stories. 

'  F.  M.  Luzel,  Troisieme  rapport  sur  une  mission  en  Bretagne,  in  the 
Archives  des  Missions  scientifiques,  2nd  series,  vol.  vii,  pp.  192  et  seq. 

'  Benfey,  Pantsehatantra,  1,  p.  426 ;  cf.  Hyacinthe  Husson,  La  Chaine 
traditionelle,  pp.  88-90. 

'  See  the  examples  o£  identical  or  analogous  signs  brought  together  by 
Cosquin,  in  pp.  10-12  of  his  memoir,  and  by  Le  Page  Eenouf,  Life-  Work, 
vol.  iii,  pp.  321-323. 

*  Cf.  in  De  Bed  Syria,  pp.  19-27,  the   Story  of  Combabos,  where  the 


INTRODUCTION  xxiii 

transformed  into  a  persea  tree,  Atys  became  a  pine.^  Neither 
Anupu  nor  Batti,  however,  as  they  appear  in  this  tale,  are 
unknown  heroes  or  gods.  The  first  is  closely  allied  with  the  dog 
deity  of  the  Egyptians,  and  the  second  bears  the  name  of  one  of 
the  most  ancient  divinities  of  archaic  Egypt — that  Baiti  of  the 
double  bull's  bust  and  head,^  of  which  the  cult  was  established 
very  early  in  Middle  Egypt,  at  Saka  in  the  Cynopolite  nome,' 
beside  that  of  Anubis  *  :  later  it  was  considered  to  be  one  of  the 
kings  anterior  to  Menes,'  and  his  individuality  and  mythical  role 
confounded  with  those  of  Osiris.^  Others  have  made  or  will 
make  those  necessary  comparisons  better  than  I  have  done.  I 
have  said  enough  to  show  that  the  two  principal  elements 
existed  elsewhere  than  in  Egypt,  and  at  periods  other  than  the 
Pharaonic  time. 

In  all  this  is  there  sufficient  proof  to  allow  us  to  assert  that 
they  are  or  are  not  original  ?  One  point  alone  appears  to  me 
to  be  beyond  doubt :  the  Egyptian  version  is  by  far  the  earliest 

theme  of  mutilation  is  more  intelligently  developed  than  In  the  Story  of 
the  Two  Brothers.  Batti  mutilates  himself  after  the  accusation,  which 
proves  nothing ;  Combabos  mutilates  himself  hefore,  which  enables  him  to 
prove  his  innocence. 

'  The  mythological  side  of  the  question  has  been  brought  into  pro- 
minence, with  some  exaggeration,  by  Fr.  Lenormant  in  Les  Premieres 
Civilizations,  vol.  i  (8vo  edition),  pp.  375-401 ;  cf.  H.  de  Charencey,  Les 
Traditions  relatives  aufils  de  la  Vierge  (extract  from  the  Annates  de  Philo- 
sophie  cliretieniie),  8vo,  Paris,  1881,  pp.  12  et  seq. 

'  This  Batti  was  remarked  on  for  the  first  time  by  Naville,  who  collected 
the  instances  where  his  name  occurs  in  the  Pyramid  texts  (_Pepi  11, 
1.  1246 ;  Mirniri,  1.  480  =  Pe]Ji  I,  1.  267  ;  Unas,  1.  538  =  Pepi  I,  1.  229), 
and  also  the  representations  of  the  god  with  the  double  bull's  head  found 
on  Thinite  remains  (Petrie,  Royal  Tombs,  vol.  i,  pi.  xi,  1.  13,  and  vol.  ii, 
pi.  X). 

'  The  correlation  was  recognised  by  Alan  Gardiner  (^The  Hero  of  the 
Papyrus  d'Orbiney,  in  the  Proceedings  of  tlie  Society  of  BiMical  Archteo- 
logy,  1905,  vol.  xxvii,  pp.  185-186)  from  an  ostracon  at  Edinburgh. 

*  DUmichen,  JRecueil  de  Monuments,  vol.  iii,  pi.  2,  1.  57 ;  cf.  Brugsoh, 
Bictionnaire  geographique,  p.  863.  Spiegelberg  has  come  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  two  brothers  Anupu  and  Baiti  are  the  two  gods  of  Cynopolis,  and 
consequently  that  the  tale  belongs  to  a  cycle  of  Cynopolite  legends  (^Ber 
Gott  Bata,  in  Zeitsohrift,  vol.  xliv,  1907,  pp.  98,  99).  Cf.  Eeitzenstein, 
Bellenistische  Wundererzdhlimgen,  pp.  13  et  seq. 

'  It  was  Lauth  who  first  recognised  the  identity  of  the  name  Batti  with 
that  of  Butes  or  Bytis  {^gyptische  Clironologie,  1877,  pp.  30-31). 

"  Vlrey,  in  an  article  of  Bcvue  des  Questioiis  Jdstoriqiies,  1893,  pp.  837- 
343,  and  in  La  Beligion  de  VAncienne  Egypte,  1910,  pp.  193  et  seq.,  has 
interpreted  the  Tale  cf  the  Two  Brothers  by  the  Osirian  myth. 


xxiv  INTRODUCTION 

in  date  that  we  possess.  It  has,  in  fact,  come  down  to  us  in 
a  manuscript  of  the  thirteenth  century  B.C.,  many  years  before 
the  period  at  which  we  can  begin  to  recover  the  trace  of  others. 
If  the  people  of  Egypt  borrowed  the  ideas,  or  if  they  transmitted 
them  to  foreign  countries,  it  was  done  by  them  at  a  period  yet 
more  remote  than  that  to  which  the  redaction  carries  us  back. 
Who  can  say  to-day  how  or  by  whom  it  was  done  ? 


II 

Whether  the  groundwork  was  foreign,  or  whether  it  was 
not,  the  form  is  invariably  indigenous ;  if  by  chance  the  subject 
were  borrowed  it  was  at  any  rate  completely  assimilated.  The 
names  must  first  be  considered.  Some  of  them,  Baiti  and 
Anupu,  belong  either  to  religion  or  to  legend  ;  Anupu,i  as  I 
have  said,  is  connected  with  Anubis,  and  his  brother  Baiti  with 
Baiti  the  double  bull. 

Others  are  derived  from  history,  and  recall  the  memory  of 
some  of  the  more  celebrated  of  the  Pharaohs.  The  instinct 
that  leads  story  tellers  of  all  countries  and  all  periods  to  choose 
a  king  or  personage  of  high  rank  as  hero  is  associated  in 
Egypt  with  very  keen  patriotic  sentiment.  A  townsman  of 
Memphis,  born  at  the  foot  of  the  temple  of  Ptah,  who  had 
grown  up,  as  we  may  say,  under  the  shadow  of  the  P3rramids, 
was  familiar  with  Khuf ui  and  his  successors :  the  bas-reliefs 
displayed  their  authentic  portraits  before  his  ej'es,  the  inscrip- 
tions enumerated  their  titles  and  proclaimed  their  glory. 
Although  Thebes  does  not  extend  back  as  far  into  the  past 
as  Memphis,  she  was  no  less  rich  in  monuments ;  on  the  right 
bank  of  the  Nile  as  well  as  on  the  left,  at  Karnak  and  at 
Luxor,  as  well  as  at  Gurneh  and  at  Medinet  Habu,  the  walls 
spoke  to  her  children  of  victories  won  over  the  nations  of  Asia 
and  Africa,  and  of  distant  expeditions  beyond  the  seas.  When 
the  story  teller  placed  a  king  on  the  scene,  the  image  he  evoked 
was  not  merely  that  of  a  mannikin  decked  out  in  gorgeous 
attire ;  his  audience  and  he  himself  recalled  those  ever-triumphant 
princes  whose  forms  and  memory  were  perpetuated  among 
them  as  in  life.     It  was  not  sufiicient  to  state  that  the  hero 

'  I  have  good  reasons  for  believing  that  the  personal  name  ordinarily 
read  Anupu  should  be  Anupui,  lie  wlw  belongs  to  Anubis.  However,  as  I 
have  not  yet  stated  them  anywhere,  I  shall  preserve  the  old  reading  for 
the  present. 


INTRODUCTION  xxv 

was  a  sovereign  and  was  called  Pharaoh,  he  must  make  it  clear 
of  which  glorious  Pharaoh  he  was  speaking — if  it  was  Pharaoh 
Ramses  or  Pharaoh  Khuful,  a  builder  of  pyramids  or  a  con- 
queror of  the  warlike  dynasties.  Truth  frequently  suffered. 
However  familiar  they  might  be  with  the  monuments,  the 
Egyptians  who  had  not  made  a  careful  study  of  their  annals 
were  inclined  to  mangle  the  names  and  confuse  the  different 
epochs.  As  early  as  the  Xllth  dynasty  Sinuhit  relates  his 
adventures  to  a  certain  Khopirkeriya  Amenemhait,  who  com- 
bines with  the  proper  name  Amenemhait  the  prenomen  of  the 
first  Sanuosrit,  and  who  may  be  sought  in  vain  in  the  oflScial 
lists.^  In  the  romance  now  at  Petrograd  Sanafrul  of  the 
IVth  dynasty  is  introduced  in  company  with  Amoni  of  the 
Xlth  2 ;  KhufuJ,  Kh§,frlya,  and  the  first  three  Pharaohs  of 
the  Vth  dynasty  play  important  parts  in  the  stories  of  the 
Westcar  papyrus  ' ;  Nabkauriya  of  the  IXth  appears  in  one  of 
the  Berlin  papyri  * ;  Uasimariya  and  Minibphtah  of  the  XlXth,' 
and  Siaminu  of  the  XXIst,  with  a  prenomen  Manakhphre, 
which  recalls  that  of  Thutmosis  III  *  in  the  two  Tales  of  Satni  ; 
Petubastis  of  the  XXVIth,'  Rahotpu  and  ManhapurJya  in  a 
fragment  of  a  ghost  story  ^ ;  and  an  anonymous  king  of  Egypt 
in  the  Tale  of  the  Doomed  Prince.  The  names  of  former  times 
lent  an  air  of  reality  to  a  story  which  it  would  not  otherwise 
have  possessed ;  a  marvellous  incident  ascribed  to  a  Ramses 
would  appear  more  probable  than  it  would  have  done  if 
attributed  to  some  worthy  but. undistinguished  commoner. 

'  It  is  perhaps  a  mistake  o£  the  copyist,  as  Borchardt  would  regard  it 
(in  Zeitsekrift,  1890,  vol.  xxviii,  p.  102),  also  perhaps  a  combination  sug- 
gested to  the  author  by  some  recollection  of  the  combined  reign  of 
Sanuosrit  I  and  of  Amenemhait  II.  Cf.  in  this  volume  The  Adventures 
of  Sinuhit,  pp.  68  ei  seq^. 

2  W.  Gol^nisohefE  in  ZeiUclmfl,  1876,  pp.  109-111. 

"  Cf.  pp.  21-42  of  this  volume. 

'  He  is  the  king  to  whom  the  fellah  complains  of  the  theft  of  his  goods 
by  Thotnakhulti ;  cf.  pp.  51,  66  of  this  volume. 

"  See  pp.  116,  118,  120-132,  136-145  et  seq.,  153  et  segt.,  of  this 
volume. 

«  See  pp.  157,  159,  160  et  seq.  of  this  volume.  M.  Legrain,  during  our 
campaign  of  1904-5,  discovered  at  Karnak  a  monument  of  a  Thfitm6sis 
ManakhphrS,  who  appears  to  me  to  be  Thfltrndsis  III ;  the  monument  is 
of  the  late  Saite  period  or  the  commencement  of  the  Ptolemaic  period. 

'  Cf.  in  pp.  217-262  of  this  volume  the  narratives  entitled  Hiffh  Emprise 
for  tlie  Cuirass  and  High  Emprise  for  the  Thrcme. 

'  Cf.  pp.  275-279  of  the  present  volume. 


xxvi  INTRODUCTION 

In  this  way,  in  addition  to  the  official  annala,  there  arose 
a  popular  chronicle,  occasionally  comic  and  always  amusing. 
The  characters  of  the  Pharaohs  and  even  their  renown  suffered 
from  it.  As  in  Europe  in  the  middle  ages  there  was  the  cycle 
of  Charlemagne,  in  which  the  character  and  doings  of  Charle- 
magne were  completely  misrepresented,  in  Egypt  there  were  the 
cycles  of  8es6stris  and  of  Osimanduas,  the  cycles  of  Thutmosis  II, 
of  Thutmosis  III,  of  Cheops,  so  much  altered  as  to  be  frequently 
unrecognisable.  Entire  periods  were  presented  in  the  guise  of 
romantic  epics,  and  the  age  of  the  great  Assyrian  and  Ethiopian 
invasions  furnished  inexhaustible  material  for  the  rhapsodists ; 
in  accordance  with  fashion,  or  in  harmony  with  their  own 
birthplace,  they  grouped  the  incidents  which  that  warlike  period 
afforded  with  such  prodigality  round  the  Saite  monarchs  Bocchoris 
and  Psammetichus,*  around  the  Tanite  Petubastis,  or  round 
the  Beduin  Pakrur,  the  great  Eastern  chieftain.^  Nevertheless 
Khufui  is  perhaps  the  most  striking  example  we  have  of  this 
degeneration.  The  monuments  give  a  most  favourable  impres- 
sion of  him.  He  wds  a  warrior,  and  he  was  able  to  restrain 
the  Nomads  who  menaced  the  mining  establishments  of  Sinai. 
He  was  a  builder,  and  within  a  short  period,  and  without 
injury  to  the  prosperity  of  the  country,  he  built  the  highest  and 
most  massive  of  the  Pyramids.  He  was  pious,  and  enriched  the 
gods  with  statues  of  gold  or  other  valuable  materials ;  he  re- 
stored the  ancient  temples  and  he  built  new  ones.  In  short, 
he  belonged  to  the  finest  type  of  the  Memphite  Pharaoh.  This 
is  the  evidence  of  contemporary  documents ;  but  when  we  turn 
to  that  of  later  generations,  as  it  was  collected  by  Greek 
historians,  we  are  told  that  Cheops  was  an  impious  tyrant, 
who  oppressed  his  people,  and  prostituted  his  daughter  in  order 
to  complete  his  pyramid.     He  banished  the  priests,  he  plundered 

'  See  Herodotus,  .II,  cxlvii-clii,  xxx,  part  of  the  romance  of  Psammeti- 
chus,  the  Dodecarchy,  the  arrival  of  the  men  of  iron,  the  flight  of  the 
soldiery.  Herodotus  was  inspired  by  an  informant  who  had  the  highest 
respect  for  the  oracle  of  Biito,  and  who  related  the  narratives  or  the 
explanation  of  events  furnished  by  this  oracle.  Oth^r  compatriots  were 
adherents  of  the  oracle  of  Jupiter  Ammon,  and  they  upheld  thg  versions 
of  the  same  events  that  issued  thence;  in  the  story  of  Temanthes  and 
the  Carian  cocks  we  have  ore  of  the  Ammonian  traditions  of  the 
Dodecarchy. 

'  See  pp.  217-263  of  the  present  volume,  High  Emprise  for  the  Cuirass 
and  the  High  Emprise  for  the  Throne,  and  the  preponderant  part  played 
by  Pakr(ir  in  conjunction  with  and  almost  above  that  of  the  Pharaoh. 


INTRODUCTION  xxvii 

the  temples  and  kept  them  closed  for  fifty  years.  The  transition 
from  Khuful  to  Cheops  cannot  have  been  effected  in  a  day, 
and  were  we  in  possession  of  more  Egyptian  literature  we 
might  mark  out  the  stages  across  the  centuries,  as  we  are 
able  to  do  with  those  between  Charlemagne  of  the  annalists  and 
Charlemagne  of  the  troubadours.  In  the  story  of  the  Westcar 
Papyrus  ^  we  can  detect  one  moment  of  the  metamorphosis. 
There  already  Khuful  is  no  longer  the  Pharaoh  religiously 
submissive  to  the  wishes  of  the  gods.  When  Ra  shows  himself 
in  opposition  to  him  and  upholding  the  three  princes  who 
dethroned  his  family,  Khufut  enters  into  a  conspiracy  with 
a  magician  to  counteract  the  projects  of  the  god,  or  to  post- 
pone their  execution ;  one  sees  that  he  would  not  hesitate  to 
treat  the  temples  of  Sakhlbu  as  badly  as  the  Cheops  of  Herodotus 
treated  all  the  temples  of  Egypt. 

Here,  at  least,  the  romance  does  not  follow  the  lead  of  his- 
torical evidence ;  on  the  Stda  of  the  princess  of  Bahhtan  '  romance 
is  surrounded  by  names  and  dates  so  cleverly  combined  that  it 
has  acquired  an  appearance  of  reality.  The  fundamental  theme 
shows  nothing  that  is  essentially  Egyptian  ;  it  is  the  universal  one 
of  a  princess  possessed  by  a  ghost  or  a  demon,  and  delivered  by 
a  magician,  a  god,  or  a  saint.  The  Egyptian  variant,  when  ap- 
propriating it,  has  brought  into  action  the  inevitable  Ramses  II, 
and  has  made  use  of  the  marriage  made  by  him  in  the  xxxivth 
year  of  his  reign  with  the  eldest  daughter  of  KhattusJl  II,  the 
king  of  the  Khati,  to  place  the  principal  scene  of  action  in  Asia. 
It  marries  him  to  the  princess  almost  a  quarter  of  a  century 
before  the  time  of  the  real  marriage,  and  as  early  as  his  xvth 
year  she  sends  an  ambassador  to  tell  him  that  her  sister-in-law 
Bintrashit  is  obsessed  by  a  spirit,  from  which  she  can  only  be 
delivered  by  expert  magicians.  He  sends  the  best  of  his, 
Thotemhabi,  but  he  fails  in  his  exorcisms  and  returns  crestfallen. 
Ten  years  pass,  during  which  the  spirit  remains  master  of  the 
situation,  but  in  the  xxvith  year  another  ambassador  is  sent. 
This  time  one  of  the  figures,  one  of  the  doubles  of  Khonsu,  consents 
to  exert  itself,  and  travelling  in  state  to  the  foreign  country, 
chases  away  the  evil  one  in  the  presence  of  the  people  of 
Bakhtan.'     The  prince,  delighted,  plans  to  keep  the  deliverer, 

'  See  pp.  21-42  of  this  volume. 
'  See  pp.  172-179  of  this  volume. 

'  The  journey  of  Unamunu  affords  a  second  example  of  a  secondary 
form  of  the  divinity  commissioned  by  the  divinity  himself  to  represent  him 


xxviii  INTRODUCTION 

but  a  dream  followed  by  illness  promptly  revenges  this  un- 
toward project,  and  in  the  xxxiiird  year  Khonsu  returns  to 
Thebes  loaded  with  honours  and  gifts.  There  is  reason  for  the 
romance  adopting  the  semblance  of  history.  Khonsu  had  long 
remained  obscure  and  little  honoured.  His  popularity,  which 
scarcely  began  before  the  end  of  the  XlXth  dynasty,  grew 
rapidly  under  the  later  Eamessides  :  at  the  time  of  the  .Tanites 
and  Bubastites  it  almost  equalled  that  of  Amon  himself.  This 
could  not  happen  without  exciting  the  jealousy  of  the  ancient 
god  and  his  partisans ;  the  priests  of  Khonsu  and  his  devotees 
must  naturally  have  searched  into  the  past  for  traditions  of 
a  nature  to  raise  their  prestige.  I  do  not  believe  that  they 
invented  the  whole  of  our  narrative.  It  existed  before  they 
thought  of  making  use  of  it,  and  the  Asiatic  conquests  of  Ramses, 
as  well  as  his  exotic  marriage,  necessarily  pointed  him  out  as  the 
hero  of  an  incident  in  which  a  Syrian  princess  was  the  heroine. 
So  much  for  the  name  of  the  king ;  that  of  the  healing  god 
was  above  all  a  matter  of  fashion  or  of  personal  piety.  Khonsu 
was  the  fashion  at  the  time  when  the  story  was  written,  and 
to  his  statue  was  attributed  the  glory  of  having  wrought  this 
miraculous  cure.  The  priests  confined  themselves  to  recovering 
this  romance  which  was  so  in  favour  of  their  god,  they  gave 
it  the  semblance  of  an  actual  fact,  and  proclaimed  it  in  the 
temple.i 

It  is  comprehensible  that  Egyptologists  should  regard  seriously, 
facts  thus  stated  on  a  monument  with  every  appearance  of 
authenticity.  They  were  victims  of  a  pious  fraud,  as  our  archivists 
have  been  when  confronted  with  falsified  abbey  charters.  But 
it  is  less  comprehensible  that  they  should  have  allowed  themselves 
to  be  misled  by  the  romances  of  Apopi  or  of  Thutiyi.  In  the 
first,  which  is  much  mutilated,  the  shepherd  king  Ap6pi  sends 
message  after  message  to  the  Theban  Saqnunriya  and  summons 
him  to  hunt  the  hippopotami  on  the  Theban  lake,  which  prevented 

in  a  foreign  country  :  the  Amon  of  the  Road  is  there  the  divine  ambassador 
of  Amon,  as  Unamunu  is  the  human  ambassador  (of.  p.  212,  note  1,  of  the 
present  volume). 

"  Erman,  Die  Bentresehstele  in  Zeitschrift,  1884,  pp.  59-60.  A  series  of 
analogous  documents  should  exist  of  a  deified  minister  of  Amenothes  III, 
Amenothes,  son  of  Hapul,  of  whom  an  oracle  and  funerary  temple  is  known 
at  Thebes.  One  only  has  come  down  to  us  in  original  form,  the  so-called 
foundation  stela  of  the  funerary  temple  at  Delr  el  Medineh,  first  translated 
by  Birch  (Chabas,  Melanges  cgyptologiques,  2nd  series,  pp.  324-343) ; 
others  have  reached  us  in  a  Greek  dress. 


INTRODUCTION  xxix 

his  sleeping.  We  should  scarcely  suspect  that  this  strange 
demand  served  as  a  pretext  for  a  religious  propaganda,  but  it 
is  nevertheless  the  case.  If  the  prince  of  Thebes  refused  to 
obey,  he  would  be  forced  to  relinquish  the  worship  of  Ea  for 
that  of  Sutekhu.i  The  quarrel  between  Ap6pi  and  Saqnilnriya 
also  appears  to  be  no  other  than  the  local  variant  of  a  theme 
which  was  popular  throughout  the  East.  "The  kings  of  that 
time  sent  problems  on  all  sorts  of  subjects  from  one  to  another  to 
be  solved,  on  condition  of  payment  of  a  sort  of  tribute  or  reward 
according  to  whether  they  answered  well  or  ill."  It  was  thus 
that  Hiram  of  Tyre  with  the  aid  of  a  certain  Abdemon  un- 
ravelled the  enigmas  propounded  to  him  by  Solomon.^  Without 
examining  in  this  place  the  diverse  fictions  that  have  been 
founded  on  this  idea,  I  will  quote  one  that  will  render  intelligible 
what  exists  of  the  Egyptian  narrative.  The  Pharaoh  Nectanebo 
sent  an  ambassador  to  Lycerus,  king  of  Babylon,  and  to  his 
minister  .^sop.  "  I  have  mares  in  Egypt  that  conceive  by  the 
neighing  of  the  horses  that  are  about  Babylon  :  what  have  you 
to  answer  as  to  this  ?  "  The  Phrygian  took  back  his  reply  the 
next  day,  and  when  he  arrived  at  his  lodging  he  ordered  children 
to  take  a  cat  and  to  whip  it  along  the  streets.  The  Egyptians,  who 
adore  that  animal,  were  extremely  scandalised  at  the  treatment 
it  received ;  they  rescued  it  from  the  hands  of  the  children,  and 
went  to  complain  to  the  king.  The  Phrygian  was  brought  into 
his  presence.  "  Do  you  not  know,"  said  the  king  to  him,  "  that 
this  animal  is  one  of  our  gods  ?  Why  then  have  you  caused  it 
to  be  treated  in  this  manner?"  "It  is  by  reason  of  the  crime 
that  it  has  committed  against  Lycerus,  for  last  night  it  strangled 
a  cock  of  his  that  was  very  industrious,  and  crowed  at  all  hours." 
"  You  are  a  liar,"  replied  the  king  ;  "  how  is  it  possible  for  a  cat 
to  make  so  long  a  journey  in  so  short  a  time  ? "  "  And  how  is 
it  possible,"  said  jEsop,  "  for  your  mares  to  hear  our  horses  neigh 
at  so  great  a  distance,  and  to  conceive  by  hearing  them  1 "  ^  A 
challenge  carried  by  the  king  of  the  country  of  the  negroes 
to  Pharaoh  Usimares  leads  up  to  the  crisis  of  the  second 
romance  of   Satni,   but  there   it    concerns   a   closed  letter  the 

'  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  i,  pp.  195-216 ;  cf.  the  complete 
translation  of  the  fragments  of  the  romance,  pp.  269,  274  of  this  volume. 

'  .^liiis  Dius,  fragm.  3,  in  Miiller-Didot,  Fragmenta  Historicorum 
Grcecorwm,  vol.  iv,  p.  398 ;  cf.  Meruindre  d'Ephese,  fragm.  1,  in  Miiller- 
Didot,  op.  oit.  vol.  iv,  p.  446. 

'  La  vie  d'Esope  le  Phrygien,  translated  by  La  Fontaine  (^Fables  de  La 
Fontaine,  edit.  Lemerre,  vol.  i,  pp.  41-42,  45). 


XXX  INTRODUCTION 

contents  of  which  had  to  be  guessed/  and  not  prodigious 
animals  that  the  two  rivals  might  possess.  In  the  Quarrd  the 
hippopotami  of  the  Lake  of  Thebes  which  the  king  of  the  South 
was  to  hunt  down,  in  order  that  the  king  of  the  North  might 
sleep  in  peace,  are  relations  of  the  horses  whose  neighing  carried 
as  far  as  Egypt,  and  of  the  cat  who  accomplished  the  journey  to 
Assyria,  there  and  back,  in  one  night.*  T  have  no  doubt  that, 
after  having  received  the  second  message  from  Ap6pi,  Saqnunriya 
found  among  his  councillors  a  sage  as  far-seeing  as  ^sop,  whose 
prudence  rescued  him  safe  and  sound.  Did  the  romance  go 
farther,  and  did  it  describe  the  war  that  broke  out  between  the 
North  and  the  South,  and  then  the  deliverance  of  Egypt  from  the 
yoke  of  the  Shepherd  kings  ?  The  manuscript  does  not  take  us 
far  enough  to  enable  us  to  guess  the  denouement  arrived  at  by 
the  author. 

Although  the  romance  of  Thutiyi  is  incomplete  at  the  com- 
mencement, the  narrative  does  not  suffer  much  from  the  loss. 
The  lord  of  Joppa,  having  revolted  against  Thutmosis  III, 
Thutiyi  attracts  him  to  the  Egyptian  camp  under  pretext  of 
showing  him  the  great  staflf  of  Pharaoh,  and  kills  him.  But  to 
get  rid  of  the  man  was  not  enough  if  the  town  still  held  out. 
He  therefore  encloses  five  hundred  men  in  immense  jars  and 
transports  them  to  the  foot  of  the  walls,  and  there  he  forces  the 
chief  equerry  to  announce  that  the  Egyptians  have  been  beaten 
and  that  their  general  is  being  brought  a  prisoner.  This  is 
believed,  the  gates  are  opened,  the  soldiers  come  out  of  their  jars 
and  seize  the  place.  Is  this  an  account  of  a  real  episode  in 
Egyptian  warfare  ?  Joppa  was  one  of  the  first  places  in  Syria 
that  was  occupied  by  the  Egyptians.  Thutmosis  I  had  subdued 
it,  and  it  figures  in  the  list  of  conquests  of  Thutmosis  III.  Its 
position  under  its  new  masters  was  not  particularly  unpleasant ; 
it  paid  tribute,  but  it  kept  its  own  laws  and  its  hereditary 
chieftain.  The  vanquished  of  Jopu — as  vanquished  is  the  title 
of  Syrian  princes  in  the  language  of  the  Egyptian  government — 
were  bound  to  act  frequently  in  the  same  manner  as  the  vanquished 
of  Tunipu,  the  vanquis/ied  of  Kodshu  and  many  others,  who 
constantly  revolted  and  brought  down  the  wrath  of  Pharaoh 
upon  their  people.  That  the  lord  of  Joppa  should  be  rebelling 
against  his  suzerain  is  by  no  means  unlikely  in  itself — even 
when  it  is  against  a  Pharaoh  so  powerful  and  stern  in  repression 

'  See  pp.  153  et  seq^.  of  this  volume. 
^  See  pp.  272,  273  of  this  volume. 


INTRODUCTION  xxxi 

as  Thutmosis  III.  The  officer  Thutlyi  is  also  not  entirely 
a  fictitious  person.  A  Thutiyi  is  known  who  also  Uved  under 
Thutmosis  and  was  entrusted  with  large  commands  in  Syx-ia  and 
Phoenicia.  His  titles  were  "  Hereditary  Prince,  Delegate  of  the 
king  in  all  foreign  countries  situated  on  the  Mediterranean, 
Royal  scribe.  General  of  the  army.  Governor  of  the  countries  of 
the  North." '  There  is  no  reason  why  in  one  of  his  campaigns 
he  should  not  have  had  to  encounter  the  lord  of  Joppa. 

The  principal  actors  may  thus  be  historical  people,  but  do  the 
deeds  attributed  to  them  bear  the  impress  of  historical  facts,  or 
do  they  belong  to  the  realm  of  fancy  ?  Thutiyi  insinuates  him- 
self as  a  turncoat  into  the  confidence  of  the  principal  foe  and 
then  assassinates  Mm.  He  disguises  himself  as  a  prisoner  of 
war  in  order  to  gain  an  entrance  into  the  town.  With  him  he 
took  soldiers  dressed  as, slaves,  who  carried  other  soldiers  concealed 
in  earthen  jars.  Among  the  greater  number  of  classical  authors 
we  find  examples  that  sufficiently  justify  the  use  of  the  first  two 
tricks.  I  fully  agree  that  they  may  have  been  employed  by  the 
Egyptian  generals  as  well  as  by  those  of  Greece  and  Rome. 
The  third  includes  an  element  that  is  not  only  probable  but  real — 
the  introduction  into  a  fortress  of  soldiers  dressed  as  slaves  or 
in  the  guise  of  prisoners  of  war.  Polyaenus  relates  how  Nearchus 
the  Cretan  took  Telmissus  by  pretending  to  confide  a  troop  of 
female  slaves  to  Antipatridas  the  governor.  Children  wearing 
chains  accompanied  the  women  with  the  outfit  of  musicians  and 
the  whole  guarded  by  an  escort  of  armed  men.  Once  entered 
into  the  citadel,  each  opened  his  flute  case,  which  contained  a 
dagger  in  place  of  a  musical  instrument ;  they  then  fell  upon  the 
garrison  and  seized  the  town.^  If  Thutiyi  had  confined  himself 
to  lading  his  people  with  ordinary  jars  or  boxes  enclosing  well- 
sharpened  blades,  I  should  have  no  objection  to  make  as  to  the 
authenticity  of  the  incident.  But  he  crushed  them  under  the 
weight  of  huge  tuns  of  earthenware,  each  of  which  contained 
an  armed  soldier  or  chains  in  lieu  of  weapons.  To  find  the 
equivalent  of  this  stratagem  we  must  come  down  to  the  veracious 
stories  of  the  Arabian  lights.     The  captain  of  the  forty  thieves, 

'  Cf.  Birch,  Memoire  sur  une  patere  egyptienne,  in  Chabas,  QSuvres 
diverse!,  vol.  i,  pp.  225-274,  and  the  supplement  of  the  memoir  of  Birch  in 
Th.  Deveria,  Memoires  et  Fragments,  vol.  i,  pp.  35-53. 

^  Polyaenus,  Strat.  v,  xi.  Cf .  analogous  events  that  occurred  in  1037  at 
Bdessa  (G.  Schlumberger,  V Epopee  Byzcmtine,  vol.  ill,  pp.  198-199),  and 
with  the  Turks  of  Asia  Minor,  Casanova,  Numismatique  des  Danioltmendites, 
p.  25. 


xxxii  INTRODUCTION 

in  order  to  lead  his  troop  unrecognised  to  AH  Baba,  could  think 
of  nothing  better  than  to  hide  them  in  jars,  one  man  in  each,  and 
to  represent  himself  as  an  oil-merchant  who  under  stress  of 
circumstances  desired  to  place  his  merchandise  in  safety.  Here 
again  the  Arab  romancer  was  more  concerned  than  the  Egyptian 
to  give  his  story  a  semblance  of  probability,  and  he  places  the  pots 
on  the  backs  of  animals  and  not  on  those  of  men.  The  setting 
of  the  story  is  historic,  the  groundwork  is  pure  imagination. 

If  modern  Egyptologists  were  thus  misled,  the  ancients  must 
have  been  still  more  completely  duped  by  similar  inventions. 
The  interpreters  and  priests  of  the  lower  class,  who  acted  as 
guides  to  foreigners,  knew  fairly  well  what  the  edifice  was  that 
they  were  showing,  its  founder,  who  had  restored  or  enlarged  it, 
and  which  part  bore  the  cartouche  of  which  sovereign,  but  as 
soon  as  they  were  questioned  as  to  details  they  stopped  short, 
or  could  only  recount  fables.  The  Greeks  had  dealings  with 
them,  and  one  has  only  to  read  the  second  book  of  Herodotus  to 
see  what  sort  of  information  he  received  as  to  the  past  history 
of  Egypt.  Some  of  the  legends  accepted  by  him  included  a 
collection  of  facts  more  or  less  distorted,  such  as  the  history  of  the 
XXVIth  Dynasty,  or  of  ancient  times,  that  of  Sesostris.  The 
greater  part  of  the  stories  told  by  him  anterior  to  the  accession 
of  Psammatichus  I  are  absolute  romances,  in  which  there  is  no 
shade  of  truth.  The  subject  of  Rhampsinitus  and  the  ingenious 
thief  exists  in  other  places  besides  Egypt.^  The  legendary  life 
of  the  kings  who  built  the  pyramids  has  nothing  in  common 
with  their  real  life.  The  chapter  devoted  to  Pheron  contains  an 
abbreviated  version  of  a  humorous  satire  on  women. ^  The  meet- 
ing of  Proteus  with  Helen  and  Menelaus  is  the  Egyptian  adapta- 
tion of  a  Greek  tradition.*  Formerly  one  might  have  wondered 
whether  the  guides  had  drawn  on  their  own  imaginations  ;  the 
discovery  of  Egyptian  romances  has  shown  that  there  as  else- 
where, their  imagination  failed.  Like  parrots  they  were  contented 
to  repeat  the  fables  that  were  current  among  the  people,  and 
their  task  was  rendered  more  easy  by  the  fact  that  the  greater 
number  of  the  heroes  were  invested  with  authentic  names  and 
titles.  Thus  the  dynasties  given  by  those  historians  who  gathered 
their  knowledge  from  them  are  a  mixture  of  authentic  names. 
Menes,  Sabaco,  Cheops,  Chephren,  Mykerinus,  or  distorted    by 

'  The  variants  have  been  collected  by  Schiefner,  in  the  Bulletin  de 
VA  cademie  de  Saint-Petershourg,  vol.  xiv,  cols.  299-316. 

''  Herodotus,  Bk.  II,  chap,  cxl,  '  Id.,  ibid.,  chap.  cxvi. 


INTRODtrCTlOU  xxxiii 

the  addition  of  a  parasitic  element  intended  to  differentiate  them 
from  their  homonyms,  Rhampsinitus  by  the  side  of'Ehamses, 
and  Psammenitos  with  Psammis  or  Psammetichus,  the  prenomens 
altered  by  pronunciation,  Osimanduas  for  Uasimariya ;  ^  popular 
nicknames,  Sesusriya,  Ses6stris-Seso6sis ;  titles,  Phero,  Pruiti, 
turned  into  proper  names  :  and  finally  names  which  were  entirely 
fictitious,  such  as  Asychis,  Uchoreus,  Anysis. 

The  passion  for  historical  romance  did  not  disappear  with  the 
national  dynasties.  As  early  as  the  Ptolemies,  Nectanebo,  the 
last  king  of  the  indigenous  race,  had  become  the  centre  of  an 
important  cycle.  He  had  been  metamorphosed  into  a  skilful 
magician,  a  consummate  maker  of  talismans ;  he  figured  as  the 
father  of  Alexander  the  Macedonian.  When  we  pass  on  to  the 
Koman  period  we  find  the  Byzantine  and  Coptic  literature 
derived  from  it  had  also  the  exploits  of  Oambyses  and  Alexander, 
the  latter  copied  from  the  writings  of  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes  ^ ; 
and  there  is  ho  need  to  scan  the  Arab  chronicles  attentively  in 
order  to  discover  in  them  an  imaginary  history  of  Egypt  bor- 
rowed from  Coptic  books.'  Whether  the  works  that  deal  with 
this  jumble  be  Latin,  Greek,  or  Arabic,  it  is  easy  to  imagine 
how  chronology  has  been  treated  amidst  these  productions  of 
popular  imagination.  Herodotus  and,  following  his  example, 
almost  all  writers  ancient  and  modern  up  to  our  times,  have 
placed  Moiris,  Ses6stris,  and  Rhampsinitus  before  the  Pharaohs 
who  buUt  the  pyramids.  The  names  of  Sesostris  and  of  Rhamp- 
sinitus are  relics  of  the  XlXth  and  XXth  dynasties ;  those  of 
the  pyramid  builders — Cheops,  Chephren,  Mykerinus — carry  us 
back  to  the  IVth  dynasty.  It  is  as  though  a  French  historian 
placed  Charlemagne  after  Bonaparte,  but  the  cavalier  fashion  in 
which  Egyptian  romancers  treat  the  sequence  of  reigns  shows  us 
how  it  was  that  Herodotus  made  the  same  mistake.  One  of  the 
stories  of  which  we  have  the  original  in  a  papyrus,  that  of  Satni, 
introduces  two  kings  and  a  prince  royal.  The  kings  were  named 
Uasimariya  and  Minibphtah,  the  prince  royal,  Satni  Khamols. 
Uasimariya  is  one  of  the  prenomens  of  Ramses  II,  one  that  he 

'  The  same  phenomenon  of  the  transcription  of  an  Egyptian  r-1  by 
the  combination  of  nd  is  found  in  Mandulis,  the  Greek  form  of  the  name 
of  the  Nubian  god  Maruri,  Maruli,  Maluli. 

'  See  pp.  290-304  of  this  volume.  The  fragments  of  the  romance  of 
Cambyses  were  discovered  and  published  by  H.  Schafer,  in  the  Sitiungs- 
beriehte  of  the  Berlin  Academy  of  Sciences,  f  .yf  ',  7 7jy —  i'' ',' 

'  See  Maspero,  Le  lAvre  des  Merveilles,  in  the  Journal  des  SavamtB,  1899, 
pp.  69-86,  154-172. 
3 


Sxmv  iNTRODtrCTlON 

bore  in  his  youtk  while  he  was  still  associated  with  Ms  fatlief. 
Minibphtah  is  an  alteration,  perhaps  a  voluntary  one,  of  the  name 
■of  Minephtah,  son  and  successor  of  Ramses  II.  Khamots,  also 
■a  son  of  Ramses  II,  administered  the  empire  over  twenty  years 
for  his  aged  father.  If  there  was  a  sovereign  in  Ancient  Egypt 
whose  memory  was  retained  by  the  fellahin,  it  was  certainly 
feamses  II.  Tradition  had  placed  to  his  credit  all  the  great 
deeds  that  had  been  wrought  by  the  whole  succession  of  Pharaohs 
■during  long  centuries.  One  might  therefore  hope  that  the 
romancer  would  respect  the  verities  at  least  so  far  as  they  con- 
cerned this  popular  idol,  and  that  he  would  not  interfere  with 
his  genealogy : 

Uasimaeiya  Ramses  II 


Khamois  Minephtah  I 

He  has,  however,  ignored  it.  Khamois  is  there,  as  in  history, 
the  son  of  Uasimariya,  but  Minibphtah,  the  other  son,  is  dis- 
placed. He  is  represented  as  being  so  much  anterior  to 
Uasimariya,  that  an  old  man  consulted  by  Satni-Khamois  as 
to  certain  events  that  happened  in  the  time  of  Minibphtah,  is 
forced  to  invoke  the  testimony  of  a  far-off  ancestor  :  "  The  father 
of  the  father  of  my  father  spake  to  the  father  of  my  father, 
saying,  '  The  father  of  the  father  of  my  father  said  to  the  father 
of  my  father :  The  tombs  of  Ahuri  and  of  MaihSt  are  below 
the  northern  corner  of  the  house  of  the  priest.' "  *  Thus  there 
appear  to  be  at  least  six  generations  between  the  Minibphtah 
of  the  romance  and  Uasimariya. 

Minibphtah 


Maihat 


Nenoferkephtah  Ahuri  x ' 

I 
X' 


X' 

I 

x^ 


Uasimaeiya 

Satni  Khamois. 
See  p.  142  of  this  volume. 


INTRODUCTION  xxxv 

The  son  Minibphtah  has  become  an  ancestor  and  remote  pre- 
decessor of  Uasimarjya,  his  own  father,  and  to  make  the  confusion 
complete,  the  foster-brother  of  Satni  bears  a  name  of  the  Persian 
period,  Eiernharer6u,  Inarfls.^  Satni,  on  the  contrary,  now 
become  the  contemporary  of  the  Assyrian  Sennacherib,*  is  repre- 
sented as  living  and  active  six  hundred  years  after  his  death. 
In  a  third  story  *  he,  with  his  father  Ramses  II,  is  placed  fifteen 
hundred  years  after  a  Pharaoh  who  appears  to  be  a  duplicate  of 
Thutm6sis  III. 

Let  us  suppose  a  traveller  as  ready  to  set  down  the  miracles  of 
Satni  as  Herodotus  was  to  believe  in  the  wealth  of  Ehampsinitus. 
Would  he  not  have  fallen  into  the  same  error  with  regard  to 
Minibphtah   and  Ramses   II   that   Herodotus    committed  with 
regard  to  Rhampsinitus  and  Cheops  ?     He  would  have  inverted 
the   order  of  the   reigns   and   placed   the   fourth  king  of    the 
XlXth   dynasty   long  before   the   third.      The   dragoman  who 
showed  the  temple  of  Ptah  and  the  pyi'amids  of  Gizeh  to  visitors 
had  apparently  inherited  some  story  which  set  forth,  no  doubt 
like    many   others,    how   a    Ramses    called    Rhampsinitus,   the 
wealthiest  of   kings,  had  been    succeeded   by  Cheops,   the  most 
impious  of  mankind.      He  held  forth  in  this  manner  to  Hero- 
dotus, and  the  worthy  Herodotus  inserted  it  in  his  book.     As 
Cheops,   Chephrfin,  and  Mykerinus   form  a  well-defined   group, 
and  their  pyramids  stand  together,  the  guides  had  no  occasion  to 
break  the  order  of  their  succession,  and  having  displaced  Cheops, 
it  was  necessary  to  treat  ChephrSn,  Mykerinus,  and  the  prince 
named  Asychis,  the  rich,'^  in  the  same  manner.     To-day,  when  we 
can  check  the  statements  of  the  Greek  traveller  by  the  evidence 
of  the  inscriptions,  it  matters  little  that  he  was  mistaken;  he 
did  not  write  a  history  of   Egypt.     Even  had  he  been  better 
informed,  he  would  not  have  developed  that  part  of  his  writings 
more  fully  which  relates  to  Egypt.     All  the  dynasties  would  have 
been  crowded  into  a  few  pages,  and  he  would  have  taught  us 
nothing  that  we  do  not  learn  to-day  from  the  monuments  them- 
selves.    On  the  other  hand,  we  should  have   lost  most  of  the 

'  On  the  identity  of  the  name  Eiemharer6u  and  the  Greek  form  Inar6s 
of.  Spiegelberg,  Demotische  Misoellen,  in  the  Becueil  de  Travaux,  1906, 
vol.  xxviii,  pp.  19,  599. 

'  Herodotus,  Bk.  II.,  chap,  cxli.,  of.  pp.  170,  171  of  this  volume. 

^  T/ie  Veritable  History  of  Satni- Khamois,  p.  168. 

*  Asdkhis,  Asychis,  is  the  Hellenised  form  of  a  name  Ashnkhl[tu],  which 
signifies  "  the  rich  one,"  and  which  is  not  met  with  before  the  Saite  and 
Greek  periods. 


xxsvi  INTRODUCTION 

strange  and  often  comic  stories  that  he  has  told  so  delightfully 
on  the  authority  of  his  guides.  We  should  not  be  familiar  with 
Pheron,  nor  with  Proteus,  Seth6n  nor  Rhampsinifcus,  and  I  con- 
sider that  would  have  been  a  great  loss.  The  hieroglyphs  tell 
us,  or  they  will  tell  us  one  day,  what  was  done  by  the  Cheops, 
Ramses,  and  Thutm6sis  of  the  real  world,  Herodotus  tells  us 
what  was  said  of  them  in  the  streets  of  Memphis.  That  part  of 
his  second  book  which  is  filled  with  their  doings  is  far  better  for 
our  purpose  than  a  course  of  history.  It  is  a  chapter  of  the 
history  of  literature,  and  the  romances  we  read  there  are  as 
completely  Egyptian  as  the  romances  we  find  in  the  papyri. 
No  doubt  it  would  be  better  to  possess  them  in  their  original 
language,  but  the  Greek  dress  in  which  they  are  clothed  is  not 
sufficiently  opaque  to  disguise  them ;  modified  as  they  are  in 
detail,  they  preserve  sufficient  of  their  primitive  physiognomy 
to  be  able  without  too  great  disparity  to  figure  side  by  side  with 
the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers  or  the  Memoirs  of  Sinuhtt. 


Ill 

So  much  for  the  names :  the  setting  is  purely  Egyptian,  and 
so  accurate  that  a  complete  picture  of  morals  and  of  society 
might  be  drawn  from  the  romances  alone.  Pharaoh  is  here 
depicted  as  less  divine  than  we  should  be  disposed  to  consider  him 
if  we  judged  him  solely  by  the  haughty  demeanour  accorded  him 
by  his  sculptors  in  triumphal  and  religious  scenes.  The  romancer 
does  not  shrink  at  times  from  depicting  him  as  ridiculous  and 
placing  him  in  situations  that  contrast  with  the  superhuman 
dignity  of  his  appearance.  He  is  deceived  by  his  wife  like  an 
ordinary  mortal,^  robbed  and  then  duped  at  every  turn  by  thieves,* 
snatched  away  by  a  magician  from  the  midst  of  his  palace,  and 
severely  thrashed  before  an  obscure  negro  king.'  It  was  the  revenge 
taken  by  the  despoUed  and  beaten  inferior  classes,  against  the 
tyrant  who  oppressed  them.  The  fellah  who  had  just  smarted 
under  the  rod  for  having  refused  to  pay  taxes,  consoled  himself 
for  his  empty  pockets  and  bleeding  wounds  by  hearing  how 
ManakhphrS  Siaminu  had  received  three  hundred  strokes  in  one 
night,  and  how  he  had  piteously  exhibited  his  bruises  to  the 

'  Thus  the  Pheron  of  Herodotus,  II,  cxi. 
^  Cf.  The  Tale  of  Rhampsinitus,  pp.  196-201  of  this  volume. 
'  Manakhphr6  Siamanu  in  The  Veritable  Mistory  of  Satni,  pp.  157-160 
of  the  present  volume. 


INTRODUCTION  xxxvii 

courtiers.  These  were  but  passing  incidents,  and  generally  his 
paramount  authority  remained  intact  in  fiction  as  in  history. 
Etiquette  was  very  strictly  maintained  between  him  and  his 
subjects,  but  ceremonial  once  satisfied,  if  the  man  pleased  as  in 
the  case  of  Sinuhtt  i  he  would  condescend  to  become  human  and 
the  good  god  would  show  himself  a  good  fellow  ^  ;  he  is  even  jovial 
and  jokes  about  the  rustic  appearance  of  the  hero,  royal  jests  that 
rouse  the  mirth  of  those  around  him,  but  of  which  the  salt  must 
have  lost  its  savour  in  the  course  of  ages,  as  we  cannot  appreciate 
them.'  He  goes  even  farther  with  his  intimates,  and  without  shame 
gets  drunk  before  them  and  in  spite  of  them.*  He  is  also  a  prey 
to  that  overwhelming  ejinyi  that  oriental  despots  have  experienced 
at  all  periods,  and  that  ordinary  pleasures  are  not  sufficient  to 
dispel.'  Like  Harun-ar-rashid  of  the  Arabian  Nights,  Khuful  \ 
and  Sanafrui  attempted  to  gain  relief  by  listening  to  marvellous  I 
stories,  or  being  present  at  magic  seances,  but  only  with  moderate 
success.  Occasionally,  however,  some  minister  more  alert  than 
the  rest  would  invent  some  diversion  that  by  its  novelty  would 
enable  him  to  spend  a  day  or  two  almost  joyfully.  Sanafrui 
must  have  been  almost  as  wearied  as  Harun  of  the  delights  of  his 
harem  ;  his  sorcerer  nevertheless  discovered  a  means  of  arousing 
his  interest  by  making  a  crew  of  young  girls  row  in  front  of  him, 
barely  veiled  by  nets  with  wide  meshes.'  Civilisations  have  dis- 
appeared and  religions  have  changed,  but  the  spirit  of  the  East 
remains  the  same  under  all  masks,  and  Mohammed  Ali  in  this 
century  found  nothing  better  than  Sanafrui  found  in  his.  At 
Shubra  we  can  still  visit  baths  constructed  on  a  peculiar  plan. 
"  There  is,''  says  Gerard  de  Nerval,  "  a  white  marble  basin, 
surrounded  by  columns,  Byzantine  in  style,  with  a  fountain  in 
the  centre,  from  which  the  water  emerges  through  crocodiles' 
mouths.  The  whole  enclosure  is  lighted  with  gas,  and  on  summer 
nights  the  Pasha  was  rowed  by  the  women  of  his  harem  on  the 
basin  in  a  gilded  cange  or  pleasure  boat.  These  fair  dames  also 
bathed  before  the  eyes  of  their  lord,  but  in  dressing  gowns  of  crepe 
de  soie,  as  the  Koran  forbids  nudities.''      No   doubt !  but  the 

'  See  pp.  92  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 

^  Good  God,  the  Good  God,  is  one  of  the  formulse  with  which  the  protocol 
of  the  Pharaohs  commences,  and  one  of  the  titles  most  frequently  given  to 
them  in  the  texts. 

'  See  p.  93  of  this  volume. 

*  See  the  Story  of  a  Mariner,  pp.  280-284  of  this  volume. 

"  See  p.  23  of  this  volume. 

'  See  £-irtg  KhufuX  and,  the  Magicians,  p.  28. 


ixxviii  INTRODUCTION 

crepe  of  Mohammed  Ali  was  scarcely  less  transparent  than   the 
net  of  Sanafrui. 

Sanafrui  was  a  Pharaoh  of  one  of  the  mighty  dynasties,  who 
wielded  undisputed  authority  over  the  whole  of  Egypt,  and  under 
whom  the  barons  were  merely  subjects,  slightly  superior  to  the 
rest  in  rank.  But  after  centuries  of  absolute  power  royalty 
became  weakened,  and  no  longer  commanded  the  respect  of  the 
feudal  lords.  These  obtained  the  upper  hand  with  new  character- 
istics adapted  to  the  various  periods,  and  the  most  powerful 
chieftains  gained  their  independence,  or  very  nearly  so,  each  in 
his  hereditary  fief.  Pharaoh  was  then  no  more  than  an  over-lord, 
scarcely  more  wealthy  or  more  powerful  than  the  others,  who 
was  obeyed  according  to  traditional  usage,  and  with  whom  the 
great  barons  would  join  in  alliance  against  their  rivals,  to  prevent 
their  usurping  the  throne  and  replacing  a  merely  nominal  sove- 
reignty by  an  effective  domination.  Such  is  Petubastis  in  the 
High  Emprise  for  the  Cuirass  a,nd  for  the  Throne.^  There  is  no  longer 
the  imperious  ruler  such  as  other  romances  portray  in  Cheops, 
Thutmosis,  or  Ramses  II.  He  is  still  by  divine  right  the  so- 
called  possessor  of  the  two  Egypts  ;  he  alone  wears  the  double 
diadem,  he  alone  is  the  son  of  Ri,  he  alone  has  the  right  to 
enclose  his  names  in  cartouches,  and  it  is  according  to  the  years 
of  his  reign  that  the  official  dating  of  the  events  that  occurred 
during  his  lifetime  is  reckoned.  He  is  before  all  things  peace- 
able, pious,  submissive  to  all  the  demands  of  religion,  the  proto- 
type of  that  being,  without  free  will  or  power  of  initiative  that 
the  Greeks  of  the  Macedonian  period  represent  as  an  ideal  prince.' 
The  power  does  not  rest  in  his  hands.  Of  the  ancient  Pharaonic 
domain  nothing  now  remains  to  him  except  a  small  part,  the 
nomes  of  Tanis  and  Memphis,  and  perhaps  two  or  three  others  in 
that  neighbourhood.  Families,  mostly  akin  to  his  own,  have 
appropriated  the  greater  part  of  the  territory,  and  press  him 
closely,  Pakrur  on  the  east  in  the  Wady  Tumilat,  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  at  Diospolis  in  the  north  at  Mendes  and  Busiris, 
Petekhonsu  and  Pemu  on  the  south,  one  at  Athribis  and  the 
other  at  Heliopolis,  not  to  mention  the  lords  of  Sebennytos,  of 
Sais,  of  Meitum,  of  far-away  Elephantine,  and  a  dozen  or  more 
of  less  importance.  In  theory  all  of  these  owe  him  homage, 
tribute,  implicit  obedience,  service  at  court,  and  militia,  but  they 

'  See  pp.  220,  235,  239  H  seq.  of  the  pre.sent  volume. 
^  Of.  Diodorus  of  Sicily  (I,  Ixx-lxxii),  who  borrowed  the  description  of 
the  life  of  the  kings  from  the  work  of  Hecatieus  of  Abdera  on  Egypt. 


INTRODUCTION  xxxix 

do  not  always  fulfil  their  obligations  with  good  grace,  and  peace 
very  rarely  reigns  among  them.  Each  has  his  army  and  his 
fleet,  in  which  Libyan,  Syrian,  Ethiopian,  and  even  Asiatic 
mercenaries  were  largely  employed  on  occasions.  They  had  their 
vassals,  their  court,  their  finances,  their  gods  by  whom  they 
swore,  their  colleges  of  priests  or  of  magicians;  they  formed 
alliances,  they  quarrelled,  they  fought,  they  chased  each  other 
from  one  bank  of  the  Nile  to  the  other,  they  coalesced  against 
Pharaoh  to  deprive  him  of  fragments  of  his  domain,  and  then, 
when  one  of  them  rose  too  high  and  obtained  the  ascendancy, 
they  would  temporarily  combine  against  him,  or  call  in  Ethiopians 
from  outside  to  compel  him  to  return  to  the  ranks.  It  was  a 
feudal  system  almost  similar  to  that  of  France,  and  the  same 
conditions  gave  rise  to  conditions  analogou.s  with  those  that 
obtained  there  during  the  Middle  Ages. 

See,  for  instance,  what  happens  in  the  High  Emprise  for  the 
Cuirass,  the  fable  that  Krall  has  reconstructed  with  so  much 
ingenuity.  The  lord  of  Heliopolis,  one  Inar6s,  possessed  a  cuirass 
of  which  his  rivals  were  envious.  He  dies,  and  during  the  days 
of  mourning  that  precede  the  funeral  the  Great  Lord  of  Diospolis 
carries  it  off  in  some  way  unknown  to  us.  The  son  of  Inaros, 
Pemu  the  Small,  claims  it,  and  when  it  is  refused  he  declares 
loudly  that  he  will  recover  it  by  force.  This  would  mean  war, 
clan  against  clan,  town  against  town,  nome  against  nome,  and 
god  against  god,  if  Petubastis  did  not  intervene.  But  the  vassals 
would  hardly  have  listened  to  him  had  not  the  great  chieftain 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  joined  with  him,  and  the  two  together 
force  the  mass  of  smaller  lordlings  to  obey  them.^  They  insist 
that  instead  of  commencing  a  destructive  campaign  the  adver- 
saries and  their  partisans  shall  fight  in  the  lists  according  to  the 
regulations  that  governed  that  sort  of  encounter,  and  which 
apparently  were  very  complicated.  They  have  platforms  erected 
on  which  they  sit  as  judges.  They  assign  a  particular  post  to 
each  champion,  Pakrur  matches  them  one  against  another, 
and  if  one  is  left  out  when  the  pairing  is  complete  he  is  held 
in  reserve  for  any  unforeseen  occasion  that  may  arise.^  Every- 
thing is  regulated  as  in  a  tourney,  and  we  may  presume  that  the 
weapons  are  blunted.     But  the  treachery  of  the  lord  of  Diospolis 

'  See  pp.  220,  235,  236-238,  239-241  of  this  volume,  the  reiterated 
advice  of  Petubastis,  and  the  eflforts  of  the  different  lords  concerned  to 
prevent  the  struggle  developing  into  a  serious  war. 

^  See  the  episode  of  Montubaal,  pp.  236  et  segi.  of  this  volume. 


xl  INTRODUCTION 

upsets  all  the  measures  taken.     He  attacks  Pemu  before  the 
arrival  of   his  allies,  and  although  the  intervention  of   Pakrur 
prevents  his  carrying  his  advantage  too  far,  his  felony  leaves  an 
angry  impression  on  the  minds  of  his  adversaries.     The  longer 
the  engagement  lasts  the  hotter  grow  the  tempers,  and  the  com- 
batants forget  the  moderation  enjoined  on  them  by  the  master 
of  the  joust.     They  provoke  and  insult  one  another,  attacking 
out  of  order,  and  the  victor,  forgetting  that  he  is  taking  part  in 
a  peaceful  passage  of  arms,  prepares  to  slay  the  vanquished  as 
he  would  do  in   battle.     The   king  and   Pakrur   hasten  to   the 
spot,  and  it  is  with  difficulty  that  they  prevent  the  catastrophe 
by  their  injunctions  or  entreaties.     When  a  truce  is  proclaimed 
after  several   hours  of    this   fighting  it  appears,  however,  that 
neither  party  has  suffered  greatly,  and  that  they  have  escaped 
with  a  few  woimds.     We  may  compare   this   with   one  of    the 
encounters  of  the  eleventh  century  between  French  and  Anglo- 
Normans,  when  after  a  whole  day  of  exchange  of  blows  the  two 
armies  would  part,  full  of  admiration  for  each  other's  prowess,  and 
leaving  three  knights  on  the  field  stifled  by  their  armour.     The 
Beduin  of  Arabia  do  the  same  thing  to-day,  and  their  customs 
enable  us  to  understand  why  Petubastis  and  Pakrur  strove  so  hard 
to  avoid  the  death  of  any  prince  ;  if  a  chief  were  killed  it  was 
obligatory  on  his  clan  to  avenge  him,  and  the  vendetta  would 
survive  for  numberless  years.    Petubastis  did  not  wish  that  Egypt 
should  be  desolated  by  war  in  his  time,  and  as  his  wish  was  in 
accord  with  the  popular  interests  it  prevailed  in  this  instance. 

The  exploits  of  the  Pharaohs  were  at  times  presented  in  different 
ways,  according  to  whether  they  were  composed  by  the  Mem- 
phites  or  the  Thebans.  The  provinces  of  the  north  and  of  the 
south  of  Egypt  differed  greatly,  not  only  in  language,  but  in 
character  and  political  tendencies.  Misunderstandings  frequently 
occurred  between  them,  and  these  easily  degenerated  into  bad 
feeling  and  civil  war.  Those  kings  who  were  popular  with  one 
were  little  liked  by  the  other,  or  were  not  known  by  the  same 
name.  In  the  Memphite  temple  of  Ptah,  Ramses  II  was  men- 
tioned on  the  monuments  by  his  name  Sesu.si  or  Sesusriya,  from 
which  the  legend  of  Sesfistris  arose.^     At  Thebes  his  prenomen 

'  E.  de  Roug^  demonstrated  that  Sesostris  was  no  other  than  Kamses  II 
(le  Veritable  Sesostris,  in  the  (Euvres  diverses,  vol.  iii,  pp.  11-14).  Sethe 
has  tried  to  prove  that  he  was  Sandosrit  III  (SesSstris,  1900,  p.  24).  I 
have  tried  to  show  that  de  Eougg  was  right,  and  that  Manetho  was  mis- 
taken in  identifying  the  Sesostris  of  Herodotus  with  a  Pharaoh  of  the 


INTRODUCTION  xli 

of    Uasimariya   predominated,    and   from  this   he   became   the 
UsimarSs  of  the  romance  of  Satni,  and  the  Osimanduas  whose 
victories  were  celebrated  and  whose  palace  was  described  by  the 
writers  copied  by  Diodorus  of  Sicily.    The  discovery  by  Spiegelberg 
of  a  new  romance  shows  that  Petubastis  shared  the  same  fate. 
Some  of  the  personages  by  whom  he  was  surrounded  in  Krall's 
romance  reappear  in  the  other,  but  the  object  of  the  quarrel  is 
different.     It  is  a  throne  or  pulpit,  and  I  suspect  that  here  it 
concerns  a  form  of  the  divinity  in  frequent  use  at  the  Graeco- 
Roman  period  in  the  Theban  nome,  an  indeterminate  emblem 
of  nature,  perhaps  the  image  of  a  sacred  stone  placed  on  a  chair 
of  state.     Probably  Amon  manifested  himself  thus  to  his  son 
Alexander  of  Macedonia,  when  he  came  to  consult  him  in  his 
oasis.^     The    legitimate   heir,    as    in   the  High  Emprise  for   tlie 
Cuirass,  was  the  child  of  the  first  owner,  a  prophet  of  Horus 
of  Buto,  but  it  devolved  on  the  son  of  the  king  Ankhhoru,  and 
the  refusal  to  give  it  up  was  the  origin  of  the  conflict.     Else- 
where ^  we  shall  observe  the  vicissitudes  of  the  combats  fought 
at  Thebes  by  the  champions  of  the  two  parties  in  the  presence 
of  the  sovereign ;  here  we  must  point  out  that  the  prophet  of 
Horus  is  assisted  in  his  demands  by  thirteen  sturdy  herdsmen, 
whose  prowess  at  first  assures  him   victory  over  the  Egyptian 
army.     The   clans,   half  of   them    fishermen  and    half   of   them 
shepherds,  that  inhabited   the   marshy   plains  of   the  northern 
Delta,  the  Bucolics,  submitted  very  unwillingly  to  the  yoke  of 
regularly  constituted  authority,  whether  Greek  or  Roman.     They 
seized  the  slightest  occasion  to  declare  war  against  it,  and  were 
usually  only  subdued  at  the  price  of  lengthy  and  expensive  efforts. 
The  most  bloody  of  their  revolts  was  in  the  year  172  a.d.,^  but 
there  were  others  under  the  Ptolemies  of  which  the  remembrance 
lingered  long  in  the  valley  of  the  Nile.     If  Heliodorus,  a  Greek 
romancer  of  the  late  empire,  was  pleased  to  describe  their  pillaging 
habits,*  we  cannot  be  surprised  that  an  indigenous  author  should 
have  chosen  them  as  types  of  brutal  courage. 

In  contrast  with  the  Exploits  of  the  Pharaohs,  full  of  movement 

Xllth  dynasty.  (La  Geste  de  Sesostris  in  the  Journal  des  Savants,  1901, 
pp.  599-609,  6«5-683.) 

'  Cf.  on  this  point  Daressy,  in  the  Annates  du  Service  des  Antiquitei, 
vol.  ix,  pp.  66-69. 

^  See  pp.  2iir-262  of  the  present  volume. 

'  A  summary  account  has  come  down  to  us  from  Dio  Cassius,  Ixxi,  4. 

*  Heliodorus,  Ethiopics  I. 


xlii  INTRODUCTION 

and  the  noise  of  battle,  the  first  pages  of  the  Tak  of  the  Two 
Brothers  ^  presents  an  admirable  picture  of  the  life  and  habitual 
occupations  of  the  ordinary  fellah.  Anupu,  the  elder,  has  his 
house  and  wife ;  Baiti,  the  younger,  has  nothing,  and  he  lives 
with  his  brother,  but  not  like  a  relative  with  a  relative,  nor  a 
guest  with  his  host.  He  takes  charge  of  the  cattle,  he  leads 
them  to  the  fields  and  brings  them  back  to  the  stable,  he  guides 
the  plough,  he  mows,  he  binds  the  hay,  he  beats  out  the  corn, 
and  brings  in  the  hay.  Every  evening  before  going  to  bed,  he 
puts  the  household  bread  into  the  oven,  and  he  rises  early  to 
take  it  out  baked.  During  the  season  for  field  work,  it  is  he 
who  runs  to  the  farm  to  fetch  the  seed,  and  carries  a  load 
sufficient  for  several  men  on  his  back.  He  spins  the  linen  or 
wool  as  he  leads  his  animals  to  pastures  of  good  grass,  and  when 
the  inundation  confines  men  and  beasts  within  doors,  he  seats 
himself  at  the  loom  and  weaves.  In  short  Jie  is  a  servant,  a 
servant  united  by  blood  relationship  to  his  master,  but  still 
a  servant.  We  must  not  conclude  from  this  the  existence  of  the 
law  of  primogeniture  in  Egypt,  nor  yet  that  custom  in  default  of 
law  placed  the  younger  in  the  power  of  the  elder.  All  the 
children  of  one  father  inherited  his  goods  in  equal  shares,  what- 
ever might  be  their  order  of  birth.  The  law  was  explicit  in  this 
respect,  and  the  benefit  extended  not  only  to  the  legitimate 
children,  but  to  those  born  out  of  wedlock ;  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  a  concubine  inherited  bj'  the  same  title  and  in  the 
same  proportion  as  the  sons  or  daughters  of  the  regularly 
married  wife.^  Anupu  and  BaIti,  if  they  had  been  children  of 
difierent  mothers,  would  have  been  equal,  according  both  to  law 
and  custom.  How  much  more  so  when,  as  the  story  particularly 
states,  they  were  children  of  the  same  father  and  the  same 
mother.  The  obvious  inequality  of  their  position  was  therefore 
not  due  to  the  law,  and  we  must  seek  for  some  other  cause. 
Supposing  that  after  the  death  of  their  parents,  instead  of 
remaining  with  Anupu,  Baiti  had  taken  the  half  which  was  his 
share  of  the  inheritance  and  gone  to  seek  his  fortune  in  the 
world,  to  what  extortions  and  annoyances  he  would  be  exposed. 
The  fellah  whose  story  is  told  in  the  Berlin  papyrus  No.  II,  and 
who  traded  between  Egypt  and  the  Plain  of  Salt,'  was  robbed 

'  pp.  3-6  of  this  volume. 

^  Wilkinson,  Manners  and  Customs  of  the  Ancient  Egyptians,  first  series, 
vol.  iii,  p.  320. 
'  The  name  of  the  Oasis  tbat  surrounds  the  natron  lakes,  the  Scythiaoa 


INTRODUCTION  xliii 

by  the  liege-man  of  a  great  lord  through  whose  territoiy  he 
passed.'  He  brought  a  complaint,  and  inquiry  proved  the  justice 
of  his  claim  ;  it  would  be  supposed  that  his  due  would  immediately 
be  rendered  him.  Not  at  all !  The  man  who  had  robbed  him 
belonged  to  one  in  high  position,  and  had  friends,  relations,  and 
a  master.  The  peasant  was  merely  a  masterless  man.  The 
author  takes  care  to  point  this  out,  and  to  have  no  master  was 
an  unpardonable  error  in  feudal  Egypt.  A  single  individual 
was  defenceless  against  the  great  lords  who  shared  the  country 
between  them,  and  the  officials  who  exploited  it  on  behalf  of 
Pharaoh.  The  poor  wretch  wept,  implored,  and  repeatedly  urged 
his  piteous  plea.  As  after  all  he  was  in  the  right,  Pharaoh 
commanded  that  his  wife  should  be  cared  for,  and  that  he  should 
not  be  allowed  to  die  of  hunger  ;  but  whether  the  matter  was  to 
be  adjudged  and  sentence  delivered  was  a  matter  to  be  decided 
later.  We  now  know  that  he  obtained  justice  in  the  end,  but 
only  after  having  delivered  eloquent  harangues  for  the  entertain- 
ment of  Pharaoh.  The  distress  and  delays  to  which  he  was 
subjected  appear  to  afford  sufficient  explanations  of  the  reason 
why  Baiti  remained  with  his  brother.  The  elder  brother, 
become  master  as  a  means  of  precaution,  was  a  protector  for 
the  younger  one,  who  guarded  him  and  his  property,  until  the 
time  when  a  wealthy  marriage,  the  caprice  of  the  sovereign, 
a  sudden  rise  in  position,  an  unexpected  inheritance,  or  merely 
admission  among  the  scribes,  should  insure  him  a  more  powerful 
protector,  when  possibly  he  himself  would  in  turn  become 
protector  to  some  one  in  need  of  such  aid. 

Thus  in  considering  each  tale  in  detail  we  see  that  on  the 
material  side  the  civilisation  it  describes  is  purely  Egyptian. 
The  scenes  at  the  beginning  of  the  Tale  of  Two  Brothers  might 
easily  be  illustrated  by  scenes  from  the  paintings  in  the  rock 
tombs  of  Thebes ;  the  expressions  used  by  the  author  are  found 
almost  word  for  word  in  the  texts  that  explain  the  pictures.^ 
Even  to  the  most  intimate  events  of  private  life,  such  as  births, 
there  is  nothing  which  cannot  be  explained  and  illustrated  by 

reffio  of  classical  geography  (Dumichen,  Die  Oasen  der  Libysehen,  Wiltte, 
p.  29  et  seq. ;  Brugsch,  Meise  nach  der  Grossen  Oase,  pp.  74  et  seq.) 

'  Cf .  Tlie  Lamentations  of  tlie  Fellah,  pp.  46-67  of  this  volume.  A  stela  of 
Harmhabi,  unfortunately  damaged,  shows  the  misfortunes  to  which  peasants 
were  exposed  who  left  home,  even  those  who  merely  undertook  a  journey 
to  pay  taxes  to  Pharaoh. 

■^  Maspero,  Notes  sur  quelques  points  de  Grammaire  et  SSistoire,  in 
ZeitscTirift,  1879,  pp.  58-63  (of.  Melanges  de  Mythologie,  vol.  iv,  pp.  66-73). 


xUv  ESTTRODUCTION 

scenes  taken  from  the  temples.  Whether  at  Luxor,i  at  Deir- 
el-Bahari,2  or  at  Erment,'  whether  they  concern  Mutemua, 
Ahmasi,  or  Cleopatra,  we  have  pictures  before  our  eyes  from 
which  we  can  exactly  realise  what  happened  when  Rudit- 
didit  gave  birth  to  the  three  sons  of  Ea.*  The  patient  is 
crouched  on  her  chair  or  on  her  bed,  one  of  the  midwives  clasps 
her  from  behind,  and  another,  crouched  in  front  of  her,  receives 
the  child  as  it  is  born.  She  hands  it  to  the  nurses,  who  wash  it, 
hold  it  in  their  arms,  caress,  and  give  it  suck.  An  examination 
of  the  monuments  shows  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  those 
stories  of  which  we  possess  the  original  hieratic ;  and  I  have 
proved  it  also  for  the  greater  number  of  those  we  possess  only 
in  a  foreign  language.  It  is  the  case  with  Rhampsinitus.  I  do 
not  intend  to  repeat  the  text  word  for  word,  in  order  to  show 
that  it  is  substantially  Egyptian,  notwithstanding  the  Greek 
dress  with  which  Herodotus  has  clothed  it ;  I  will  content  myself 
with  discussing  two  of  the  points  which  have  been  objected  to  as 
indicating  a  foreign  origin. 

The  architect  commissioned  to  construct  a  treasury  for  Pharaoh 
shaped  and  laid  a  stone  so  perfectly  that  two  men,  nay!  even 
one  alone  could  move  it  from  its  place.^  It  has  been  said  that 
the  movable  stone  was  not  an  Egyptian  invention.  In  Egypt 
the  public  edifices  were  built  with  stones  of  immense  size ;  and 
not  all  the  skill  in  the  world  would  enable  an  architect  to  dispose 
of  a  block  in  the  manner  described  by  Herodotus.  Strabo,  how- 
ever, was  aware  that  the  entrance  to  the  Great  Pyramid  was  by 
a  passage  the  mouth  of  which  was  concealed  by  a  movable 
stone  ^ ;  and  in  addition  to  the  Pyramid,  we  have  proved  that 
the  same  method  was  employed  for  the  hiding-places  that 
abounded   in   the   temples.     At    Denderah,    for   instance,    there 

'  Gayet,  Le  Temple  de  Louxor,  pi.  Ixiii-lxvii. 

^  E.  Naville,  Deir  el  Sahari,  vol.  il,  pi.  xlii-li. 

'  The  scenes  in  the  temple  of  Erment,  now  destroyed,  have  been 
preserved  by  ChampoUion,  Monuments  de  VEgypte,  pi.  cxlv,  6,  7 ;  cxJviii, 
ter ;  by  Eosellini,  Monumenti  del  Citlto,  pi.  lii-liii ;  and  by  Lepsius, 
Denim,  iv,  pi,  59o,  60a. 

■*  See  pp.  37-39  of  this  volume. 

'  Herodotus,  II,  cxxi,  and  p.  197  of  this  volume.  Cf.  Nouveau  fragment 
cCwn  commentaire  sur  le  second  livre  d^ Hirodote,  in  Maspero,  Melanges  de 
Mythologie  et  d'Archeologie,  vol.  iii,  pp.  415-416. 

*  Strabo,  xvii,  p.  508 :  cf.  L.  Borchardt,  Ser  \lffos  i^aipinnos,  in 
Zeitschri/t,  vol.  xxxv,  pp.  87-89.  Flinders  Petrie  has  likewise  shown  that 
the  great  pyramid  of  Dahohtir  was  closed  by  means  of  a  pivoted  stone 
(_The  Pyramids  and  Temples  of  Oizeli,  pp.  145,  167-169,  and  pi.  xi). 


INTRODUCTION  jdv 

are  a  dozen  crypts  concealed  in  the  foundations  or  thickness 
of  the  walls.  They  communicate  with  the  temple  by  narrow 
passages  which  open  into  the  chambers  in  the  form  of  holes 
which  to  day  are  open  and  vacant.  But  formerly  they  were 
closed  by  a  stone  ad  hoc,  of  which  the  front  turned  outwards 
was  carved  like  the  rest  of  the  wall.'  A  passage  in  the  Tale  of 
Khufui  appears  to  state  that  the  crypt  at  Heliopolis,  where  the 
god  Thoth  concealed  his  library,  was  closed  by  a  block  similar 
to  those  of  Marietta.^  The  inscriptions  also  show  that  when  a 
secret  chamber  was  made  all  possible  precautions  were  taken 
to  prevent  its  being  known  not  only  to  visitors,  but  also  to  the 
inferior  priesthood.  "  The  door  is  unknown  to  the  profane ;  if 
they  seek  for  it,  no  one  finds  it  except  the  prophets  of  the 
goddess."^  Like  the  architect  of  Rhampsinitus  and  his  sons, 
those  prophets  of  Denderah  knew  the  entrance  to  a  secret 
chamber  crowded  with  metals  and  precious  objects,  and  they 
alone  possessed  the  knowledge.  By  raising  a  stone,  of  which 
nothing  was  known  by  the  vulgar,  they  disclosed  the  opening 
of  a  passage;  into  this  they  crawled,  and  in  a  few  moments 
arrived  at  the  treasury.  When  the  block  was  replaced,  the  most 
experienced  eye  could  not  distinguish  the  precise  spot  where  the 
passage  opened.* 

Later  on,  the  son  of  the  architect  who  had  escaped  death, 
contrived  to  make  the  guards  who  were  watching  over  the  corpse 
of  his  brother  intoxicated,  and  shaved  them  on  the  right  side.' 
Wilkinson,  I  think,  was  the  first  to  remark  that  in  Egypt 
the  soldiers  are  represented  without  beards,  that  all  classes  of 
society  shaved  habitually,  and  that  the  only  bearded  personages 
must  have  been  barbarians.*  Since  then  his  assertion  has  been 
continually  repeated  as  a  proof  of  the  foreign  origin  of  the  story. 
But  here,  as  in  many  other  instances  that  occur  in  his  work, 
the  assertion  is  the  result  of  a  too  hasty  study  of  the  monuments. 

'  Mariette,  Denderah,  texte,  pp.  227-228.  Jomard  had  already  remarked 
on  a  movable  stone  of  this  kind  in  the  temple  of  Deir  el  Medineh 
(^Description  spiciale  de  Memphis  et  des  Pyramides  in  the  Description  de 
VEgypte,  2nd  edition,  vol.  v,  p.  444). 

*  See  the  story  with  the  title  King  Khufui  and  tlie  Magicians,  pp.  21-42 
of  this  volume. 

^  Mariette,  Denderah,  Plates,  vol.  iii,  pi.  30,  c. 

*  See  Mariette,  Denderah,  voL  v,  Supplement;  the  plate  in  which  the 
plan  and  the  method  of  opening  are  shown. 

'  Herodotus,  II,  cxxi ;  cf.  p.  199  of  this  volume. 

*  Cf.  Bawlinson's  Herodotus,  vol.  ii,  p.  165,  note  4. 


xlvi  INTRODUCTION 

The  pure  race  of  Egyptians  could  wear  a  beard,  and  those  who 
wished  did  wear  one,  as  is  fully  proved  by  the  monuments  of  all 
periods.  Moreover,  the  police  were  not  all  natives ;  they  were 
recruited  principally  from  a  tribe  of  Libyan  origin,  the  Mazaiu, 
and  since,  as  Wilkinson  himself  remarks,  foreigners  were  ex- 
empted from  the  ordinary  usage,  why  should  not  the  oflScers 
whom  Rhampsinitus  put  in  charge  of  the  corpse  be  wearing 
hair  on  their  chin  or  cheeks?  The  soldiers  who  composed  the 
Egyptian  army,  as  it  was  in  the  time  of  the  Saites  and  Persians, 
as  it  was  in  fact  when  Herodotus  knew  about  it,  were  some  of 
them  Libyans,  and  some  Semitic  mercenaries,  Oarians  or  Greeks, 
while  others  formed  part  of  the  Persian  garrison,  and  were  all 
of  them  bearded  as  a  rule.^  It  must  therefore  be  conceded  that 
for  contemporary  Egyptians  there  was  nothing  unusual  in  seeing 
bearded  police,  whether  they  were  born  in  the  country  or  brought 
in  from  abroad ;  the  episode  of  the  shaved  beard  is  no  proof 
against  the  indigenous  origin  of  the  story. 

We  will  now  turn  from  the  material  details.     The  moral  side 
of  the  civilisation  is  no  less  accurately  reproduced  in  our  nar- 
ratives.    No  doubt  we  must  be  on  our  guard  against  accepting 
as  absolute  fact  all  that  they  appear  to  tell  us  of  the  private  life 
of  the  Egyptians.     Like  modern  authors,   the  writers  of  those 
times  sought  to  develop  those  sentiments  and  characters  which 
were  exceptional  among  the  great  mass  of  the  nation.     If  we 
were   forced   to  judge   the   Egyptian   women   by   the   portraits 
we  find  in  these  stories,  our  opinion  of  their  chastity  would  be 
a  very  low  one.     The  daughter  of  Rhampsinitus  throws  open 
her  chamber  and  yields  herself  to  any  who  will  pay  her ;  it  may 
be  that  she  is  a  victim  for  reasons  of  state,  but  she  is  a  resigned 
victim.*     Tbubui  greets  Satni,  and  at  the  first  interview  declares 
herself  ready  to  share  her  couch  with  him.     If  she  appears  un- 
decided at  the  decisive  moment,  and  several  times  causes  delays, 
it  is  no  feeling  of  shame  that  makes  her  hesitate ;  it  is  only  the 
determination  to  make  him  pay  as  highly  as  possible  for  what 
she  intends  to  sell,  and  not  to  yield  to  him  until  the  price  is 
paid.'    The  sight  of  Balti,  young  and  vigorous,  kindles  an  irre- 
sistible desire  in  the  breast  of  the  wife  of  Anupu,*  and  the  wife 
'  A  stela  of  the  XVIIIth  dynasty  provides  us  with  the  portrait  of  an 
Asiatic  mercenary,  who  died  in  Egypt ;  he  is  completely  bearded  (Spiegel- 
berg,  in  Zeitsclirift,  vol.  xxxvi,  pp.  126-127). 
'  Herodotus,  II,  cxxi ;  cf.  p.  200  of  this  volume. 
^  See  the  whole  episode  in  pp.  136-140  of  this  volume. 
*  See  p.  6  of  this  volume. 


INTRODUCTION  xlvii 

of  TTbau-anir  is  equally  susceptible  to  the  attractions  of  a  young 
man.i  The  divine  wife  of  Balti  consents  to  betray  her  husband 
in  exchange  for  some  jewels,  and  to  become  th«  favourite  of  the 
King.^  Princesses,  girls  of  the  sacerdotal  caste,  of  the  middle 
class,  and  of  the  peasantry,  are  all  alike  in  the  matter  of  virtue. 
I  find  none  of  them  respectable  except  Ahuri,'  Mahltuaskhtt,* 
and  a  stranger,  the  daughter  of  the  chief  of  Naharinna ;  and 
the  passion  with  which  the  latter  flings  herself  into  the  arms  of 
a  man  whom  chance  has  made  her  husband,  affords  food  for 
reflection.' 

A  satire  on  feminine  morals  in  the  writings  of  a  professional 
moralist  has  little  value  for  history.  It  is  a  common  theme, 
that  varies  according  to  the  period  and  the  country,  but  which 
proves  nothing  decisive  against  the  period  or  the  country.  It  is 
of  no  importance  that  EJitahhotpu  should  define  the  vicious  woman 
as  a  bundle  of  all  kinds  of  wickedness,  a  sack  full  of  all  kinds  of 
malice,*  or  that  Amj^~resumihg  the  same  theme  after  an  interval 
of  three  thousand  years,  describes  her  as  a  deep  river  of  which 
no_oneJknows_th§).  jvindiegs,^  All  the  women  of  their  time  may 
have  been  virtuous,  and  they  may  have  invented  vices  for  them 
in  order  to  give  scope  to  their  eloquence.  But  the  story  tellers 
did  not  set  out  to  preach  propriety,  they  did  not  undertake  to 
satirise  the  women ;  they  described  them  as  they  were  for  their 
contemporaries — perhaps  as  they  themselves  had  found  them.  I 
doubt  whether  they  had  ever  in  the  course  of  their  fortunes 
encountered  a  princess  of  the  royal  harem,  but  Tbubui  wandered 
daily  through  the  streets  of  Memphis,  the  hierodules  did  not 
reserve  their  favours  entirely  for  princes  of  the  blood  royal, 
Baiti's  companion  was  not  alone  in  her  love  of  ornaments,  and 
there  was  more  than  one  brother-in-law  who,  without  any  pangs 
of  conscience,  knew  the  whereabouts  of  the  abode  of  the  wife  of 
Anupu.     In  Egypt  morals  were  lax.     Ripened  to  a  precocious 

'  See  p.  2i  of  this  volume. 

'  See  p.  14  of  the  present  volume. 

'  In  the  Adventure  of  Satni-Khamois,  pp.  120  et  seq^.  of  this  volume. 

*  In  the  Veritable  History  of  Satni-Khamois,  pp.  146  et  seq.  of  this 
volume. 

'  In  the  Tale  of  the  Boomed  Prince,  pp.  185  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 

'  In  the  moral  treatise  of  the  Prisse  Papyrus,  pi.  x,  1.  1-4.  Of.  Virey, 
Etudes  sw  la  Papyrus  Prisse,  pp.  64-66. 

'  In  the  philosophical  dialogue  between  Ani  and  his  son  Khonshotpu. 
(Mariette,  Papyrus  de  Boulaq,  vol.  i,  pi.  xvi,  1.  13-17.  Cf.  Chabas, 
L'Egyptologie,  vol.  i,  pp.  65  et  seq.) 


ilviii  INTRODUCTION 

maturity,  the  Egyptian  women  lived  in  a  world  where  the  laws 
and  customs  seem  to  conspire  to  develop  her  native  ardour.  As 
a  child  she  played  unclothed  with  her  unclothed  brothers,  as  a 
woman  fashion  left  her  chest  uncovered,  clothed  her  in  transparent 
materials,  and  left  her  nude  before  the  eyes  of  men.  /In  the  towns 
the  servants  by  whom  she  was  surrounded,  and  who  swarmed 
round  her  husband  and  his  guests,  were  only  clothed  in  a  girdle  ' 
drawn  tightly  round  the  loins ;  in  the  country,  the  peasants  on 
her  property  cast  aside  their  loin-cloth  to  work  in  the  fields. 
Both  religion  and  the  cult  ceremonies  drew  her  attention  to  the 
obscene  figures  of  the  deity,  and  the  very  writing  displayed 
indecent  figures  before  her  eyes.  When  love  was  spoken  of,  she 
bethought  herself  of  no  ideal  love  such  as  the  modern  maiden 
dreams  of,  but  actually  and  precisely  of  physical  love.  With  all 
this  it  is  not  surprising  that  the  sight  of  a  robust  man  aroused 
the  wife  of  Anupu  to  such  a  point  as  to  make  her  lose  all  self- 
control.  For  an  Egyptian  woman  to  conceive  the  idea  of 
adultery  was  almost  enough  to  make  her  immediately  attempt 
to  gratify  the  desire.  /  But  were  there  more  women  in  Egypt 
than  elsewhere  who  wbuld  entertain  the  idea  ? 

Herodotus  was  told  by  the  guides,  and  in  his  turn  tells  us  with 
all  the  gravity  of  an  historian,  that  a  certain  Pharaoh  who  had 
become  blind  owing  to  his  impiety  was  condemned  by  the  gods 
in  a  merry  mood  not  to  recover  his  sight  .  .  .  Herodotus  is  at 
times  impossible  to  translate  !  In  short,  it  was  necessary  to  find 
a  woman  who  had  been  faithful  to  her  husband.  The  queen 
was  put  to  the  proof,  and  then  the  ladies  of  the  court,  then 
those  of  the  town,  the  provincials,  the  country  folk,  and  finally 
the  slaves.  None  availed,  and  the  worthy  king  remained  blind. 
After  much  searching  the  woman  was  found  who  could  confer 
the  remedy,  and  he  married  her.  As  for  the  others,  he  shut 
them  up  in  a  city  and  burnt  them.  Such  things  were  done  in 
those  days.^  This  fable,  related  by  a  story  teller  at  some  street 
corner,  or  read  at  leisure  after  drinking,  would  be  sure  to  meet 
with  the  success  that  a  scandalous  story  always  obtains  among 
men  ;  but  even  while  jesting  at  his  neighbour,  each  Egyptian 
would  bethink  himself  that  in  such  circumstances  his  good  wife 
would  be  able  to  effect  a  cure,  and  did  not  trouble  himself. 
These  broad  stories  from  Memphis  mean  no  more  than  those  of 
other  nations ;  they  arise  from  that  quality  of  general  rancour 
that  men  have  always  possessed,  and  more  especially  against 
'  Herodotus  II,  cxi. 


INTRODUCTION  xlix 

women.  The  loose  womea  of  our  Middle  Ages  and  the  uncon- 
trolled Egyptian  women  of  the  Memphis  stories  are  alike  un- 
desirable, but  what  is  related  of  them  in  the  stories  proves 
nothing  against  the  morals  of  their  times. 

Within  these  restrictions,  the  particulars  of  the  incidents  are 
Egyptian.  Read  once  more  the  passage  where  Satni  meets 
Tbubui,  and  crudely  confesses  his  desire.  With  the  names 
changed,  we  have  here  an  exact  representation  of  what  occurred 
in  Thebes  or  Memphis  in  a  similar  case.  The  preliminaries 
arranged  by  the  manservant  and  the  maid,  the  meeting,  the 
festivities,"  and  the  elaborate  supper,  and  then  the  bargaining 
before  the  final  yielding.  The  lovers  of  the  Arabian  Nights  acted 
in  the  same  way,  even  the  inevitable  cadi  who  is  called  in  to 
celebrate  the  marriage  of  the  Zobei'de  with  the  Ahmed  or 
Noureddin  of  the  particular  story  is  already  foreshadowed  by 
the  scribe  of  the  School  who  draws  up  the  contracts  intended  to 
transfer  the  property  of  Satni-Khamois.to  Tbubui.i  As  to  the 
events  that  precipitate  or  retard  the  denouement,  they  are  most 
frequently  incidents  of  the  life  of  that  period. 


IV 

I  say  all  incidents  without  exception,  even  those  which  appear 
most  improbable  in  our  eyes,  becausef  we  must  not  judge  the 
conditions  of  Egyptian  life  by  those,  of  our.  own.  For  the  pur- 
poses of  romance  we  do  not  commonly  employ  apparitions  of 
divinities,  dreams,  men  transformed  into  beasts,  animals  that 
talk,  magic  boats  or  litters;  those  who  believe  in  such  marvels 
regard  them  as  extremely  rare,  and  they  are  not  made  use  of  in 
ordinary  romance. 

This  was  not  the  case  in  Egypt,  and  what  we  term  the  super- 
natural was  there  of  daily  occurrence.  Dreams  played  a  decisive  j 
part  in  the  lives  of  the  sovereign  and  distinguished  personag^/ 
whether  they  were  caused  by  the  voluntary  intervention  of  a  god, 
or  whether  they  were  sought  by  sleeping  for  a  night  in  certain 
temples.*  /  The  belief  in  signs  reigned  eveiywhere  supreme,1and 
it  was  not  only  in  romance  that  the  bubbling  up  of  a  jug  of  Tbeer 
or   the   deposit  of   dregs  in  a  bottle  of   wine  warned  a  man  of 

'  See  p.  138  of  this  volume. 

'  Cf.  the  ineubation  of  Mahituaskhit  and  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  in 
the  Veritable  History  of  Satni,  pp.  146-147,  161-162  of  this  volume. 
4 


1  INTRODUCTION 

the  death  of  his  brother.^  So  many  people  had  received  these 
mysterious  warnings  that  no  one  would  be  inclined  to  dispute 
AJaexr  probability  when  they  met  with  them  in  a  romance. 
/Sorcery  had  its  recognised  place  in  ordinary  existence,  as  much 
as  war,  commerce,  literature,  business,  amusements,  and  pleasure  ; 
not  every  one  had  witnessed  its  power,  but  every  one  was  con- 
nected with  some  one  who  had  seen  its  results  and  had  profited 
or  lost  by  it.  It  was,  in  fact,  regarded  as  a  science,  and  of  a 
very  high  orderTj^f  we  consider,  we  realise  that  the  priest  was 
a  magician  ;  the  ceremonies  he  performed,  the  prayers  he  recited, 
were  so  many  methods  by  which  he  forced  the  gods  to  act  for  him 
in  the  way  he  desired,  and  to  accord  him  such  and  such  a  favour 
in  this  world  or  the  next.  The  priests — hea/rers  of  the  roll  or  of 
the  booh  (khri-habi),  who  possessed  the  secrets  of  the  divinity,  in 
heaven,  on  earth,  and  in  hell — could  perform  all  the  prodigies 
demanded  of  them ;  Pharaoh  had  some  around  him  whom  he 
called  chief  khri-habi,  and  who  were  his  official  sorcerers.  He 
consulted  them,  he  stimulated  their  researches,  and  when  they 
had  invented  some  fresh  miracle  for  him,  he  loaded  them  with 
gifts  and  honours.  One  of  them  could  reunite  a  severed  head  to 
its  body,  another  made  a  crocodile  that  devoured  his  enemies, 
a  third  cleft  the  water,  raised  it  and  piled  it  up  at  will.'  The 
great  folk  themselves,  Satni-KhS,mois  and  his  foster-brother, 
were  convinced  adepts,  and  they  read  eagerly  the  collections  of 
mystic  formulae ;  Satni  even  acquired  so  great  renown  in  this 
class  of  studies  that  a  complete  cycle  of  stories  was  grouped 
round  his  name.'  A  prince  of  magic  in  our  days  would  gain 
very  moderate  esteem  ;  in  Egypt  magic  was  not  incompatible  with 
royalty,  and  the  magicians  of  Pharaoh  often  had  Pharaoh  himself 
for  a  pupil.* 

'  This  is  what  happens  to  the  brother  of  Balti  in  the  Tale  of  Two  Brotliers, 
pp.  10,  li  of  tlie  present  volume.  Cf .  pp.  165,  191,  similar  intersigns  in  the 
Veritable  Sutory  of  Satni,  and  in  the  Doomed  Prince. 

^  See  the  story  entitled  Khufui  and  the  MagUians,  p.  21  et  seq.  Jewish 
and  Arab  tradition  have  retained  the  recoUection  of  these  powerful 
magicians,  as  is  shown  in  the  history  of  Moses,  and  the  description  that 
Makrizi,  for  instance  (Malan,  A  Short  Story  of  the  Copts  and  of  their 
Church  pp.  13-15),  gives  of  a  meeting  between  Egyptian  sages. 

'  See  the  three  stories  or  summaries  of  stories  relating  to  Satni  on 
pp.  115-172  of  this  volume. 

*  Even  as  late  as  the  time  of  the  Renaissance  a  prince  was  more  highly 
regarded  because  he  was  a  sorcerer.  For  example,  in  the  Weistkunig  one 
finds  the  young  Maximilian  of  Austria  instructed  by  his  ecclesiastical  pre- 
ceptors not  only  in  the  secrets  of  white  magic,  but  of  black. 


INTRODUCTION  li 

Many  of  our  personages  were  therefore  either  amateur  or 
professional  sorcerers  :  Tbubui,'  Nenoferkephtah,^  XJbau-anir  and 
Zazamankhu,'  Didi,*  Senosiris,'  and  Horus  the  son  of  the  negress.' 
BaSti  "  enchants  his  heart,"  takes  it  out  of  his  breast  without 
ceasing  to  live,  and  changes  himself  first  into  a  bull  and  then  a 
tree.'  Khamois  and  his  foster-brother  learn  by  chance  of  the 
existence  of  a  book  written  by  Thoth  with  his  own  hand,  and 
which  was  endowed  with  marvellous  qualities.  It  was  supposed 
to  contain  two  formulae,  and  two  only ;  but  what  formulae ! 
"  If  thou  recite  the  first,  thou  shalt  charm  the  heaven,  the  earth, 
the  moon  of  the  night,  the  mountains,  the  water ;  thou  shalt 
understand  what  is  said  by  the  birds  and  the  reptiles,  as  many 
as  there  are ;  thou  shalt  behold  the  fish  of  the  lowest  depths,  for 
a  divine  power  shall  cause  them  to  rise  to  the  surface  of  the 
water.  If  thou  recite  the  second  formula,  even  when  thou  art 
in  the  tomb,  thou  shalt  regain  the  form  that  thou  hadst  on  earth ; 
thou  shalt  see  the  sun  rising  in  the  heavens  and  his  cycle  of  the 
gods,  the  moon  and  the  form  that  she  hath  when  she  appears."  * 
Satni  Khamols  was  determined  to  procure,  in  addition  to  the 
inestimable  delight  of  producing  a  rising  of  the  moon  at  will,  the 
certainty  of  never  losing  the  form  that  he  had  on  earth ;  his 
desire  to  possess  the  marvellous  book  is  the  principal  motive  of 
the  romance.  The  science  to  which  he  devotes  himself  is  other- 
wise exacting,  and  imposes  abstinence,  chastity,  and  other  virtues 
on  its  devotees  which  they  could  not  always  maintain  to  the  end.' 
And  yet  the  study  is  so  attractive  to  them  that  they  become 
absorbed  and  neglect  all  else  for  it.  They  no  longer  see,  they 
no  longer  drink,  they  no  longer  eat ;  they  permit  themselves  only 
one  occupation — that  of  reading  their  book  of  magic  without 

'  The  heroine  of  the  second  part  of  the  Adventure  of  Satni-KluimoU, 
pp.  144  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 

^  See  p.  122  of  this  volume  for  what  is  said  by  the  author  of  the  Adventure 
as  to  the  magical  studies  of  Nenoferkephtah. 

"  Their  exploits  are  recorded  in  full  at  the  beginning  of  the  part  that  is 
preserved  of  the  Story  of  Xhufui,  pp.  24-30. 

*  See  p.  30  et  seq.,  the  description  of  this  personage  and  the  marvels 
wrought  by  him. 

"  He  is  the  hero  of  the  Veritable  Hutory,  pp.  144-170  of  this  volume. 

'  He  is  an  Ethiopian  instructed  in  the  learning  of  Egypt  by  Horus,  the 
son  of  Panishi,  and  in  that  of  the  Soudan  by  his  mother,  Tnahslt,  the 
negress.     Cf.  p.  158  of  the  present  volume. 

'  See  pp.  10,  16,  18  of  the  present  volume. 

■  Cf.  pp.  117,  118,  123,  124  of  this  volume. 

•  Cf.  p.  135,  note  2,  and  p.  141,  note  1,  of  this  volume. 


lii  INTRODUCTION 

relaxation  and  exercising  the  authority  gained  thereby  on  people 
and  things.^  This  absorption  is  not  without  peril ;  the  gods  and 
the  dead,  whom  the  sorcerer  has  deprived  of  their  talismans, 
attempt  to  recover  them,  and  all  methods  are  regarded  by  them 
as  permissible.  They  hover  around  them  and  profit  by  their 
passions  or  weaknesses  to  get  them  into  their  power ;  love  is 
their  great  ally,  and  it  is  by  means  of  a  woman  that  they  most 
frequently  succeed  in  winning  back  their  lost  treasure.* 

The  power  of  magic  art  did  not  cease  with  life.  Whether 
he  wished  it  or  not,  every  Egyptian  after  his  death  was  as 
fatally  subject  to  charms  and  incantations  as  he  was  during 
life.  It  was  in  fact  believed  that  the  existence  of  mankind  was 
attached  by  unavoidable  bonds  to  that  of  the  universe  and  the 
gods.  The  gods  had  not  always  manifested  that  contemptuous 
indifference  towards  humanity  which  they  appeared  to  have 
entertained  from  the  time  of  Menes.  At  first  they  descended 
into  the  newly  created  world,  they  mixed  familiarly  with  the 
newly  born  nations,  and  assuming  a  fleshly  body,  they  were 
subject  to  fleshly  passions  and  weaknesses.  The  people  of  those 
times  beheld  them  in  turn  loving  and  fighting,  reigning  and 
succeeding,  victorious  and  defeated.  Jealousy,  anger  and  hatred 
then  stirred  their  divine  breasts,  as  though  they  had  been  simple 
human  breasts.  Isis,  a  widow  and  miserable,  wept  the  helpless 
tears  of  a  wife  over  her  assassinated  husband,'  and  her  divine 
nature  did  not  save  her  from  the  pangs  of  child-birth.  Ra 
narrowly  escaped  perishing  by  the  bite  of  a  serpent,*  and  in 
an  access  of  fury  destroyed  those  reptiles ;  he  became  old, 
and  in  his  decrepitude  he  experienced  the  trials  of  second  child- 
hood, his  head  shook  and  he  dribbled  like  an  ordinary  old  man.^ 
Horus,  the  child,  conquered  the  throne  of  Egypt  by  the  use  of 
weapons.^  But  later  on,  the  gods  retired  to  the  heavens,  and 
just  as  formerly  they  had  rejoiced  in  appearing  with  men  below, 

'  Thus  Satni  Khamols  ;  of.  p.  135  of  this  volume. 

^  See  p.  133  et  seq. ;  the  struggle  between  Nenoferkeptah  and  Satni,  and 
the  victory  won  by  Nenoferkeptah  owing  to  the  interposition  of  Tbubui. 

'  The  book  of  the  Lamentations  d'Isis  ct  de  Nephthys  has  been  published 
by  M.  de  Horrack,   CEuvres  diverses,  pp.   33-53. 

■•  B.  Leffibure,  un  Ckapitre  de  la  Chronique  solaire,  in  Zeitschrift,  1883, 
pp.  27-33  ;  of.  CBhkvres  diverses,  vol.  i.  pp.  203-213. 

'  E.  Naville,  Za  Destruction  des  Hommes  jiar  les  Dieux,  in  Transactions  of 
the  Society  of  BiUical  Archeology,  vol.  iv,  pp.  1-19,  vol.  viii,  pp.  412-420. 

«  E.  Naville,  Le  Mythe  d'Horits,  folio,  Geneva,  1870;  Brugsch,  Die  Sage 
der  gefiiigelten  Sonne,  4to,  1871,  Gottingen. 


INTRODUCTION  liii 

so  now  they  assiduously  concealed  themselves  in  the  mysteries  of 
their  eternity.  Who  was  there  among  the  living  who  could  boast 
of  having  beheld  their  face? 

Moreover  the  incidents  of  their  corporal  life,  whether  happy  or 
the  contrary,  determined  from  afar  the  happiness  or  misfortune 
of  each  generation,  and  in  each  generation,  of  each  individual. 
On  the  17th  of  Athyr  in  some  year  so  completely  lost  in  the 
remote  past  that  it  was  unknown  how  many  centuries  had 
elapsed  since  that  time.  Situ  entrapped  his  brother  Osiris  and 
slew  him  by  treachery  at  a  banquet.  >  Each  year  on  the 
corresponding  day  the  tragedy  that  was  enacted  in  the  terrestrial 
palace  of  the  god  appears  to  have  been  resumed  in  the  depths 
of  the  firmament ;  as  at  the  time  of  the  death  of  the  Grod,  the 
power  of  good  was  weakened,  the  sovereignty  of  evil  prevailed, 
and  the  whole  of  nature,  abandoned  to  the  powers  of  darkness, 
recoiled  on  mankind.  A  devotee  was  careful  to  undertake 
nothing  on  that  day ;  anything  he  was  desirous  to  do  must  be 
avoided.  If  he  went  down  to  the  edge  of  the  river  he  would 
be  attacked  by  a  crocodile,  as  the  crocodile  sent  by  Situ 
attacked  Osiris.  If  he  started  on  a  journey,  he  might  say 
farewell  for  ever  to  his  wife  and  household — he  was  certain 
never  to  return.  It  was  better  to  remain  shut  up  indoors  and 
to  wait  trembling  and  inactive  while  the  hours  of  peril  passed 
one  by  one,  until  the  sun  of  the  following  day  dispelled  the  powers 
of  evil.  On  the  9th  of  Khoiiak  Thoth  had  encountered  Situ,  and 
gained  a  signal  victory  over  him.  Each  year  on  the  9th  of 
Khoiak  there  was  a  festival  on  earth  among  mankind,  festival 
in  heaven  among  the  gods,  and  security  in  commencing  all  things.^ 
Days  were  lucky  or  unlucky,  according  to  the  events  that 
occurred  on  them  during  the  time  of  the  divine  dynasties. 
"Tybi  4. — Good,  good,  good.'      Whatever  thou  shalt  behold 

'  Be  Iside  et  Osiride,  oh.  13.  Confirmation  of  Plutarch's  text  is  found 
in  several  passages  of  the  magic  or  religious  texts  (Papyrus  magique 
JSarris,  Mition  Chabas,  PI.  ix.  1.  2  et  seq.)  etc. 

^  Sallier  papynts  iv,  pi.  x,  11.  8-10. 

'  The  Egyptians  divided  the  twelve  hours  of  the  day,  from  sunrise  to 
sunset,  into  three  parts  or,  as  they  said,  into  three  seat^ons,  tori,  of  four 
hours  each.  Each  of  the  three  adjectives  that  occur  after  each  date  in 
the  Sallier  Calendar  applies  to  one  of  the  sections.  Usually  the  presage 
is  the  same  for  the  whole  day,  and  then  one  finds  noted,  good,  good,  good, 
or  hostile,  hostile,  hostile.  But  it  occasionally  happened  that  one  section 
was  unlucky  while  the  other  two  were  favourable,  and  then  we  find  the 
remark  good,  good,  hostile,  or  an  analogous  notatiun  corresponding  to 


Kv  INTRODUCTION 

on  this  day,  it  is  of  lucky  presage  for  thee.  He  who  is  born 
on  this  day  shall  die  at  the  greatest  age  of  all  the  people  of 
his  house ;  he  will  have  long  life  in  succession  to  his  father. 

"  Tybi  5.— Evil,  evil,  evil.— It  is  the  day  when  the  chieftains 
were  burnt  by  the  goddess  Sokhit  who  dwells  in  the  white  abode, 
when  they  rage,  transform  themselves  and  come.^  Offerings  of 
cakes  for  Shu,  Ptah,  Thoth  ;  incense  on  the  fire  for  Ra  and  the 
gods  who  attend  on  him,  for  Ptah,  Thoth,  Hu-Sau  on  this  day. 
What  thou  seest  on  this  day  shall  be  lucky.^ 

"  Tybi  7. — Evil,  evil,  evil. — Do  not  unite  with  women  before 
the  eye  of  Horus.'  The  fire  that  burns  in  thy  house,  beware 
of  exposing  thyself  to  its  baneful  effect. 

"  Tybi  8. — Good,  good,  good.— That  which  thou  seest  on  this 
day  with  thine  eye,  the  divine  cycle  will  grant  thee.  Consolida- 
tion of  fragments.* 

"Tybi  9.— Good,  good,  good. — The  gods  acclaim  the  goddess  of 
the  south  on  this  day.  Present  festival  cakes  and  fresh  loaves, 
which  rejoice  the  hearts  of  the  gods  and  the  manes. 

"  Tybi  10. — Evil,  evil,  evil. — Do  not  make  a  fire  of  rushes  on 
this  day.  This  day  fire  from  the  god  Sop-ho  went  forth  in  the 
Delta,  on  this  day.* 

"  Tybi  14. — Evil,  evil,  evil. — Do  not  approach  the  flame  on  this 
day ;  Ra,  1.  h.  s.,  has  directed  it  to  annihilate  all  his  foes,  and 
whosoever  approaches  it  on  this  day,  he  will  not  be  well  again  all 
the  time  of  his  life." 

the  quality  of  the  presage.  It  will  be  observed  that  in  this  curious 
work  there  are  no  prognostications  relating  to  the  hours  of  the  night. 
The  fact  explains  itself  when  we  consider  the  analogous  superstitions 
that  exist  or  have  existed  among  other  nations,  either  ancient  or  modem. 
In  all  of  them  the  night  is  evil ;  it  is  the  time  when  spirits,  ghosts,  and 
demons  of  all  sorts  and  both  of  animal  and  human  form  attain  their 
full  power,  and  not  having  to  fear  the  light,  emerge  from  their  hiding- 
places.  There  is  therefore  no  scope  for  indicating  the  same  divisions 
for  the  night  as  for  the  day. 

'  I  cannot  say  to  what  episode  of  the  Osirian  wars  this  passage  alludes. 

''  Sallier  Papyrus  IV.,  pi.  xiii,  1.  6-7. 

'  The  sun  is  intended  here,  or  more  probably  the  fire. 

*  The  last  part  of  the  phrase  refers  to  the  reconstruction  of  the 
mutilated  body  of  Osiris  by  Isis.  The  legend  relates  in  tact  that  Osiris, 
rent  in  pieces  by  Situ,  collected  bit  by  bit  by  Isis  and  Nephthys  and 
placed  on  a,  funerary  couch,  was  temporarily  reconstituted  and  begat 
Horus. 

'  I  do  not  know  who  the  god  Sop-ho  was,  nor  his  reason  for  setting  the 
Delta  on  fire. 


INTRODUCTION  Iv 

The  officer  of  high  rank  who  on  the  13th  of  Tybi  braved  a  lion 
■with  all  the  assurance  and  pride  of  courage,  or  who  engaged  in  a 
fight  fearless  of  the  Syrian  arrows,^  on  the  12th  would  be 
alarmed  at  the  sight  of  a  rat,  and  turn  away  his  eyes, 
trembling.' 

(Each  day  had  its  influences,  and  the  accumulated  influences 
formed  destiny.  Destiny  was  born  with  the  man,  grew  with 
him,  guided  him  in  youth  and  mature  age,  and,  it  may  be  said, 
cast  his  entire  life  in  the  unalterable  mould  that  the  doings  of 
the  gods  had  prepared  from  the  beginning  of  time.  IPharaoh  and 
his  nobles  submitted  to  destiny,  and  so  were  the  rulers  of  foreign 
nations.^  Destiny  followed  a  man  even  after  death  ;  with  fortune 
it  was  present  at  the  judgment  of  the  soul,'*  either  to  render  to 
the  infernal  jury  the  exact  reckoning  of  his  virtues  or  his  crimes, 
or  finally  to  arrange  the  conditions  of  his  new  life.  There  was 
nothing  hideous  in  the  guise  under  which  it  was  figured.  It  was 
a  goddess,  Hdthor,  or  better  still,  seven  young  and  beauteous 
goddesses,'  the  H3,thors  of  the  rosy  face  and  heifer's  ears, 
always  gracious,  always  smiling,  who  announced  good  fortune  or 
predicted  misery.  Like  the  fairy  godmothers  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  they  clustered  round  a  woman  in  childbed  and  awaited  the 
arrival  of  the  infant,  either  to  enrich  or  to  ruin  it  with  their 
gifts.  The  sculptors  of  the  temple  of  Luxor,*  at  Erment '  and  at 
Deir  el  Bahari,*  show  us  those  that  are  acting  as  midwives  to 
Mutemua,  wife  of  Thutmosis  IV,  to  Queen  Ahmasi,  and  the 

'  It  was  a  lucky  day.     {Papier  Sallier  IV,  pi.  xvi,  1.  4.) 

'  For  the  12th  of  Tybi  there  is  the  following  note  {Papier  Sallier  iv, 
pi.  xiv,  1.  3):  "Tybi  xii.— Evil,  evil,  evil. — Try  to  see  do  rat;  do  not 
approach  one  in  thy  house." 

'  It  is  said  of  one  of  the  princes  of  the  Kh^ti  that  "  his  destiny  "  gave 
him  his  brother  as  successor  (Traite  de  Ramsis  TI avee  le  Prince  de  KMti, 
U.  10-11). 

'  See  the  picture  of  the  judgment  of  the  soul  in  chapter  125  of  the  Book 
of  the  Bead. 

"  It  is  the  number  given  in  the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers,  pi.  ix,  1.  8, 
of.  p.  12  of  the  present  volume,  which  is  confirmed  by  the  representations 
of  Deir-el-Medineh.  In  other  documents,  in  the  Doomed  Prince,  for  in- 
stance (of.  p.  186  of  this  volume),  their  number  is  not  limited. 

'  Champollion,  Monuments  de  VEgypte  et  de  la  Nuhie,  pi.  ccoxl-cocxli. 
The  text  reproduced  by  Champollion  indicates  no  name  for  the  goddess. 
The  Hdthors  represented  with  the  Queen  in  the  birth  scene  are  nine  in 
number. 

'  Champollion,  Monuments  de  VEgypte  et  de  la  KuUe,  pi.  clxv.  12. 

"  Naville,  Deir  el  Bahari,  vol.  ii,  pi.  xlii-li. 


Ivi  INTRODUCTION 

celebrated  Cleopatra.  Some  of  them  tenderly  support  the  young 
mother,  and  aid  her  by  their  incantations,  while  the  others 
perform  the  first  services  for  the  newly  born,  and  prophesy  all 
manner  of  happiness  for  the  child.  Khnumu  having  fashioned 
a  wife  for  Baiti,  they  come  to  see  her,  examine  her  for  a  moment, 
and  exclaim  with  one  voice  that  "she  shall  die  by  the 
sword  !  " '  They  appear  at  the  cradle  of  the  doomed  prince  and 
announce  that  he  shall  be  slain  by  a  serpent,  a  crocodile,  or 
a  dog.2  In  the  story  of  Khufui  and  the  Magicians,  four 
of  them,  Isis,  Nephthys,  Maskhonuit,  and  Hiqait,  aided  by 
Khnumu,  disguise  themselves  as  almehs  to  deliver  the  wife  of 
the  priest  of  Ea  of  the  three  infants  who  struggled  within  her. 
The  point  on  which  they  differ  from  our  fairy  godmothers  is 
their  inveterate  love  of  punning.  Each  of  the  names  they  give 
the  children  is  a  play  on  words,  difficult  for  a  modern  to  under- 
stand, and  yet  more  difficult  to  translate.'  They  are  not  alone 
in  their  preference,  the  Oriental  has  always  been  irresistibly 
attracted  by  this  form  of  wit,  and  Arabia  and  Judsea  in  no  way 
fell  short  of  Egypt  in  the  matter  of  strange  etymologies  for  the 
names  of  their  saints  and  heroes. 

To  see  and  hear  the  Hathors  at  the  moment  when  they 
pronounce  their  decrees  was  reserved  for  the,  great  folk  of  the 
world.  The  common  people  were  not  usually  in  their  confidence  ; 
they  knew  only  by  the  experience  of  many  generations  that  they 
assigned  certain  death  for  the  men  born  on  certain  days. 

"  Paopbi  4. — Hostile,  good,  good. — On  no  account  go  out  of 
thy  house  on  this  day.  Whosoever  is  born  on  this  day  dies  of 
contagion  on  this  day. 

"  Paophi  5. — Bad,  bad,  bad. — On  no  account  go  out  of  thy 
house  on  this  day ;  approach  not  women ;  it  is  the  day  of  oflfering 
offerings  of  things  before  the  god,  and  Montu*  rests  on  this  day. 
Whosoever  is  born  on  this  day,  he  will  die  of  love. 

"  Paophi  6. — Good,  good,  good. — A  joyous  day  in  heaven.  The 
gods  rest  in  the  presence  of  the  god,  and  the  divine  cycle 
performs  the  rites  in  the  presence  of  .  .  .'  Whosoever  is  born 
on  this  day  vrill  die  of  drunkenness. 

'  Pwpynis  d'Orbiney,  pi.  ix,  1.  5  ;  of.  p.  13  of  the  present  volume. 
^  Cf.  p.  186  of  the  present  volume. 
'  Cf.  pp.  37-39  of  this  volume. 

'  Montu,  god  of  Thebes  and  Hermonthis,  is  one  of  the  principal  gods 
of  war. 

'  The  name  of  a  divinity  is  missing  here. 


INTRODUCTION  Ivii 

"Paophi  7. — Evil,  evil,  evil. — Do  absolutely  nothing  on  this 
day.     Whosoever  is  born  on  this  day  shall  die  on  the  stone.^ 

"  Paophi  9. — Mirth  among  the  gods. — Men  are  keeping 
festival,  for  the  enemy  of  R3,  is  cast  down.  Whosoever  is  born 
on  this  day  will  die  of  old  age. 

"Paophi  23. — Good,  good,  evil. — Whosoever  is  born  on  this  day 
dies  by  the  crocodile. 

"  Paophi  27. — Hostile,  hostile,  hostile. — Do  not  go  out  on  this 
day ;  do  not  apply  thyself  to  any  manual  work.  Ra  is  at  rest. 
Whosoever  is  born  on  this  day  shall  die  by  the  serpent. 

"  Paophi  29. — Good,  good,  good. — Whosoever  is  born  on  this 
day  shall  die  venerated  by  all  people." 

Not  all  the  months  were  equally  favourable  to  this  kind  of 
presage.  Those  who  were  born  in  the  month  of  Paophi  had 
eight  chances  out  of  thirty  of  knowing  the  manner  of  their 
death  by  the  date  of  their  birth.  Athyr,  which  immediately 
follows  Paophi,  possesses  only  three  fateful  days.*  The  Egyptian 
who  was  born  on  the  9th  or  29th  of  Paophi  had  nothing  to 
do  but  to  live ;  his  good  luck  could  not  faiL  The  Egyptian 
born  on  the  7th  or  27th  of  the  same  month  had  no  need  to 
disquiet  himself  unduly  ;  the  manner  of  his  death  was  already 
fixed,  but  not  the  time  :  he  was  condemned,  but  he  had  power 
to  retard  the  sentence  almost  at  will.  If,  like  the  Doomed 
Prince,  he  were  menaced  with  death  by  a  crocodile  or  a  serpent, 
he  would  not  live  long  if  he  was  not  careful,  or  if  as  a  child  his 
parents  did  not  take  precautions  for  him  ;  the  first  serpent  or 
crocodile  he  met  would  execute  the  sentence.  But  he  could  arm 
himself  with  safeguards  against  his  fate,  keep  at  a  distance  from 
canals  and  from  the  river,  never  go  for  a  sail  on  those  days  when 
the  crocodiles  were  masters  of  the  water,'  and  on  other  days  he 
could  safeguard  his  journeys  by  water  by  employing  a  crew 
skilful  in  averting  danger  by  means  of  charms.*     It  was  believed 

'  Perhaps  "  Whosoever  is  bom  on  this  day  will  die  on  foreign  soil," 

^  The  14th,  20th,  and  23rd.  Whoever  is  born  on  the  14th  will  die  by  the 
stroke  of  a  cutting  weapon  {Sallier  Pap.  iv,  p.  8, 1.  3).  Whoever  is  born  on 
the  20th  will  die  of  the  annual  contagion  {id.  p.  8,  1.  9).  Whoever  is  bom 
on  the  23rd  will  die  on  the  river  (id.  p.  9, 1.  12). 

'  In  the  Saltier  Papyrus  ZFthe  following  note  is  placed,  after  the  date 
Paophi  22 :  "  Do  not  wash  in  any  water  this  day  ;  whosoever  shall  navi- 
gate the  river,  it  is  the  day  to  be  rent  in  pieces  by  the  tongue  of  Sovku 
(the  crocodile)." 

*  See  below,  pp.  266<S67,  what  is  said  of  the  spells  employed  by  the 
shepherds  to  prevent  crocodiles  attacking    their   flocks  ;    those    useful 


Iviii  INTRODUCTION 

that  at  the  slightest  contact  with  the  feather  of  an  ibis,  the 
most  athletic  crocodile  with  the  sharpest  of  teeth  would  become 
motionless  and  harmless.^  I  would  not  myself  rely  on  this ;  but 
the  Egyptian  who  believed  in  the  secret  virtues  of  various  objects 
would  on  no  account  omit  to  have  several  ibis  feathers  at  hand, 
and  imagined  himself  safeguarded  thereby. 

Divine  precautions  had  also  to  be  taken  in  addition  to  these 
human  ones — incantations,  amulets  and  ceremonies  of  ritual  magic. 
The  religious  hymns,  indeed,  repeated  in  grand  sonorous  strophes 
that  "the  god  is  not  shaped  in  stone — nor  in  the  statues  on 
which  the  double  crown  is  placed  ;  he  is  not  seen — no  service,  no 
offering  reaches  him  ; — he  cannot  be  approached  in  the  mysterious 
ceremonies;  the  place  where  he  is,  is  not  known — the  sacred 
books  are  not  found  by  force."  ^  That  was  true  of  the  gods 
considered  each  one  as  an  ideal  being,  perfect,  and  absolute,  but 
in  the  ordinary  course  of  life  Ea,  Osiris,  Shu  and  Amon  were 
not  inaccessible.  Their  royalty  had  left  some  traces  of  frailty 
and  imperfection  that  constantly  brought  them  down  to  earth. 
They  were  carved  in  stone,  they  were  touched  by  services  and 
offerings,  they  were  approached  in  the  sanctuaries  and  in  the 
painted  shrines.  If  their  mortal  past  exerted  an  influence  on  the 
affairs  of  men,  man  in  his  turn  exerted  an  influence  on  their 
divine  present.  There  were  words  that  pronounced  with  a 
certain  intonation  penetrated  to  the  depths  of  the  unknown, 
formulas  the  sound  of  which  acted  irresistibly  on  the  super- 
natural intelligences,  and  amulets  which  had  secured  some  of 
the  celestial  power  by  their  magical  consecration.  By  their 
virtue,  man  had  power  over  the  gods ;  he  enrolled  Anubis,  Thoth, 
Bastit,  or  Situ  himself,  in  his  service;  he  alternately  annoyed 
and  calmed  them,  he  sent  them  forth  and  recalled  them,  he  forced 
them  to  work  or  to  fight  for  him.  This  formidable  power  that 
they  believed  themselves  to  possess  was  employed  by  some  of 
them  in  advancing  their  fortunes,  or  gratifying  their  evil  tempers 
and  passions.  It  was  not  only  in  romance  that  Horus,  son  of  the 
negress,  armed  himself  with  spells  to  persecute  Pharaoh  and 
humiliate  Egypt  in  the  eyes  of  Ethiopia.'     During  a  plot  aimed 

for  animals  were  equally  useful  for  men,  and  the  charms  of  the  Harris 
Magical  Papyrus  were  as  efficacious  for  one  as  for  the  other. 

'  HorapoUo,  Hieroglyphs,  II,  Ixxxl.  The  hieroglyph  referred  to  in  the 
text  of  the  Greek  author  occurs  frequently  in  the  late  periods . 

'  Saltier  Papyrus  II,  p.  12,  It.  6-8,  and  Anastasi  Pwpyrus  VII,  p.  9, 
1.  13. 

'  See  p.  158  etseq,  of  this  volume,  the  Veritable  Historij  of  Satni-Klidmois. 


INTRODUCTION  Ux 

at  Ramses  III  the  conspirators  were  armed  with  books  of 
incantations  by  which  they  might  penetrate  to  the  harem  of 
Pharaoh.i  The  law  punished  with  death  those  who  thus  trans- 
gressed, while  their  crime  did  not  prevent  it  from  making  use  of 
the  services  of  the  less  turbulent  of  the  confraternity  and  pro- 
tecting those  who  exercised  their  art  in  a  harmless  or  beneficial 
manner. 

Henceforth  the  threatened  man  had  not  to  watch  alone.  The 
gods  watched  with  him,  and  supplemented  his  weak  efforts  with 
their  unfailing  vigilance.  Take  an  amulet  that  represents  "  a 
figure  of  Amon  with  the  four  rams'  heads,  painted  on  clay, 
trampling  on  a  crocodile  .with  his  feet,  and  eight  gods  adoring 
him,  placed  to  right  and  left."  ^  Pronounce  over  him  this 
adjuration  :  "  Behind,  crocodile,  son  of  Situ !  Float  not  with 
thy  tail ; — Seize  not  with  thy  two  arms.  Open  not  thy  mouth ; — 
May  the  water  become  a  sheet  of  fire  before  thee ! — The  charm 
of  thirty-seven  gods  is  in  thine  eye; — Thou  art  bound  to  the 
great  crook  of  EA. — Thou  art  bound  to  the  four  bronze  pillars  of 
the  south — in  front  of  the  bark  of  RS,. — Stop,  crocodile,  son 
of  Situ. — Protect  me,  Amon,  husband  of  thy  mother."  The 
passage  is  obscure.  It  was  necessarily  so  in  order  that  it  should 
work  efiicaciously.  The  gods  understand  at  a  word  what  is  said 
to  them  ;  the  allusions  to  events  in  their  lives  by  which  they  are 
conjured,  are  sufficient  to  move  them  and  there  is  no  need  to 
recall  them  in  detail.  Had  you  been  born  on  the  22nd  or  23rd 
of  Paophi,  Amon  was  bound  to  protect  you  against  the  crocodile 
and  the  perils  of  the  water.  Other  incantations  and  other 
amulets  protected  from  fire,  scorpions,  and  from  illness  ' ;  under 
whatever  form  destiny  might  disguise  itself,  it  found  the  gods 
lying  in  ambush  for  the  defence.  Doubtless,  nothing  that  was  done 
could  alter  the  sentence,  and  the  gods  themselves  were  powerless 
as  to  the  issue  of  the  struggle.  The  day  must  come  when  pre- 
cautions, magic,  and  divine  protection,  would  alike  fail ;  destiny 
was  more  powerful.  At  any  rate  the  man  had  succeeded  in 
lasting  perhaps  to  old  age,  perhaps  even  to  that  age  of  a  hundred 
and   ten   years,   the  extreme  Kmit  of  life  to  which   the  sages 

'  Chabas,  Papyrus  Tnagique  Harris,  pp.  170-174;  D6v6ria,  Le  Papyrus 
Jvdiciaire  de  Turin,  pp.  124-137. 

^  Harris'  Magical  Papyrus,  pi  6,  11.  8-9. 

'  Papyrus  I  of  Leyden,  published  by  Pleyte  (^Etudes  egyptologiqves, 
vol.  i,  Leyden,  1866),  is  a.  collection  of  formula  against  various 
maladies. 


Ix  INTRODUCTION 

occasionally  hoped  to  attain,  and  which  no  mortal  born  of  mortal 
mother  might  surpass.' 

After  death,  magic  accompanied  the  man  beyond  the  tomb 
and  continued  to  dominate  him.  Our  earth,  such  as  the  blind 
faith  of  the  people  and  the  superstitious  science  of  the  priests 
believed  it  to  be,  was  like  a  theatre  in  two  compartments.  In 
one,  the  Egypt  of  the  living  was  spread  out  in  the  light  of  day, 
the  wind  of  the  south  wafted  its  delicious  breath,  the  Nile 
rolled  its  abundant  waters,  the  rich  black  earth  produced  its 
harvests  of  flowers,  cereals,  and  fruit.  Pharaoh,  son  of  the  Sun, 
lox'd  of  the  diadems,  lord  of  the  two  countries,  reigned  at 
Memphis  or  at  Thebes,  while  his  generals  gained  victories  afar, 
and  his  sculptors  toiled  to  carve  the  monuments  of  his  piety  in 
granite.  It  is  there,  in  his  kingdom  or  in  the  foreign  countries 
dependent  on  him,  that  the  action  of  most  of  the  stories  is 
placed.  That  of  the  romance  of  Satni  takes  place  partly  in  the 
second  division  of  our  universe,  the  regions  of  tombs  and  of  the 
night.  The  eternal  waters,  after  having  flowed  during  the  day  past 
the  ramparts  of  the  world,  from  east  to  south,  and  from  south  to 
west,  arrived  every  evening  at  the  Mouth  of  the  Cleft  ^  and 
were  engulfed  in  the  mountains  that  border  the  earth  towards 
earth,  carrying  with  them  the  bark  of  the  sun  and  "his  cortege 
of  luminous  gods.'  For  twelve  hours  the  divine  equipage 
traversed  the  long  dark  corridors,  where  genii,  some  hostile, 
others  friendly,  either  attempted  to  obstruct  it,  or  assisted  it  in 
overcoming  the  dangers  of  the  journey.     From  time  to  time  a 

'  For  the  age  of  one  hundred  and  ten  years  see  the  curious  memoir  by 
Goodwin  in  Chabas,  Melanges  egyptologiq;ues,  2nd  series,  pp.  231-237. 

^  The  Bo  Pegait  or  Ro  Pegarit,  was  situated  in  the  Wu  Pegait,  or 
Wu  Pegarit,  itself  situated  to  the  west  of  Abydos,  behind  that  part  of  the 
Thinite  necropolis  now  called  by  the  Arabs  Omm-el-Gaab.  The  name 
signifies  literally  mouth  of  the  tree,  and  refers  to  the  tree  that  marked 
the  cleft  or  fissure  by  which  the  sun  entered  the  night  world. 

'  The  description  of  the  nocturnal  course  of  the  sun  is  found  in  the 
J3oolt  of  Knowing  that  which  is  in  the  Lower  Hemisphere,  the  text  of  which, 
recorded  on  papyrus,  on  sarcophagi,  and  on  the  walls  of  some  tombs,  can 
still  be  almost  completely  recovered.  It  gives  hour  by  hour,  with 
explanatory  illustrations,  the  events  of  the  journey  of  the  sun,  the  names 
of  the  halls  it  traversed,  of  the  genii  and  the  gods  it  met  with,  illustra- 
tions of  the  punishment  of  the  damned,  and  the  discourse  of  the  mystic 
personages  who  greet  the  sun.  A  complete  translation  and  interpretation 
will  be  found  in  the  memoir  by  Maspero  on  les  Hypogees  Moyaux  de  Thebes, 
which  is  reproduced  in  vol.  ii  of  Melanges  de  Mythologie  et  d' ArcJieologie 
egy ptiennes,  pp.  1-181. 


INTRODUCTION  Ixi 

door  guarded  by  a  gigantic  serpent  opened  before  it  and  gave  it 
access  to  an  immense  ball,  full  of  monsters;  tben  the  narrow 
dark  passages  began  once  more,  the  blind  course  in  the  darkness, 
the  struggles  with  hostile  genii,  and  the  joyous  reception  by 
friendly  gods.  In  the  morning  the  sun  attained  the  extreme 
limit  of  the  land  of  darkness,  and  issued  forth  from  the  mountain 
of  the  east  to  light  up  a  new  day.^  It  happened  occasionally 
that  living  people  by  magic  virtue  penetrated  these  mysterious 
regions  and  emerged  safe  and  sound.  The  Pharaoh  Rhampsinitus 
carried  away  thence  the  gifts  of  the  goddess  Nult,^  and  Satni, 
guided  by  his  son  Senosiris,  was  present  at  the  judgment  of  souls.' 
But  these  were  exceptions ;  in  order  to  reach  them  in  regular 
fashion,  it  was  necessary  to  have  first  experienced  the  common 
lot  of  mortality. 

The  tombs  of  kings,  princes,  and  distinguished  people  were 
often  constructed  on  the  plan  of  the  underworld.  They  also 
had  their  shafts  by  which  the  dead  men  were  lowered  into  the 
funerary  chamber,  their  passages  excavated  far  into  the  living 
rock,  their  great  halls  with  many-coloured  pillars,  with  round 
vaulted  roofs,*  and  the  walls  themselves  painted  with  the  demons 
and  gods  of  Hades.'  All  the  inhabitants  of  these  "  eternal 
homes "  *  were  clothed  in  the  livery  of  Egyptian  death,  in  the 
bizarre  splendour  of  its  changing  fashions — the  wrappings  of  fine 
bandages,  the  coloured  and  gilt  cartonnages,  and  the  mask,  with 
its  great,  ever-open,  inlaid  eyes.  But  beware  of  thinking  that 
they  were  altogether  dead,  l  It  may  be  said,  speaking  generally, 
that  the  Egyptians  did  not  die  as  we  die.  The  breath  of  life, 
with  which  the  tissues  were  impregnated  at  the  moment  of  birth, 
did  not  suddenh'  disappear  with  the  final  beatings  of  the  heart — 
it  persisted  until  decomposition  was  complete.  However  faint 
and  obscure  this  life  of  the  corpse  might  be,  it  was  necessary  to 

'  In  the  country  of  Boqait.     "  Childbirth." 

^  Herodotus,  II,  cxxii. ;  cf.  p.  196  of  this  volume. 

'  See  the  second  tale  of  Satni,  pp.  148-153  of  this  volume.  Jules  BaiUet, 
reviewing  these  ideas,'  has  concluded  that  they  exercised  an  influence  over 
the  descent  into  the  Inferno  as  described  by  Greek  and  Eoman  poets 
(^Deseentes  aux  Eafers  classiques  et  egyptiennes,  in  the  Revue  Vkiversitaire 
of  March  15,  1902,  published  separately,  8vo,  7  pages). 

'  What  are  called  in  the  texts  Klil  (Kerirt),  ovens,  halls  with  circular 
vaulting. 

'  The  tombs  of  Setu!  I,  of  Mtnephtah,  and  of  Kamses  IV  and  V,  are  painted 
thus. 

'  The  expression  employed  from  the  time  of  the  earliest  dynasties. 


Ixii  INTRODUCTION 

avoid  its  extinction.  /  The  early  custom  of  drying  the  hody,  and 
later  on  of  mummification,  fixed  the  form  and  may  be  said  to 
have  petrified  it.  The  usages  of  magic  and  religion  maintained 
in  it  a  kind  of  latent  humanity,  capable  of  developing  and  mani- 
festing itself  at  some  time.  Also  the  embalmer  was  a  magician 
and  a  priest  as  well  as  a  surgeon.  As  he  macerated  the  flesh, 
and  rolled  the  bandages,  he  recited  orisons,  performed  mysterious 
rites,  and  consecrated  powerful  amulets.  Each  limb  in  turn 
received  from  him  the  oil  that  rendered  it  incorruptible  and  the 
prayers  that  sustained  the  spark  of  life  ^ ;  while  towards  the  close 
of  the  Pharaonic  period  magic  had  invaded  the  corpse  itself,  and 
it  was  armed  with  amulets  from  head  to  foot.  A  disc  of  gilded 
cartonnage,  covered  with  mystic  legends  and  placed  under  the 
head,  secured  it  some  vestige  of  animal  warmth.^  The  stone 
scarab  set  in  gold,  placed  on  the  breast  at  the  base  of  the  throat, 
replaced  the  heart  that  had  been  rendered  motionless  by  the 
stoppage  of  the  blood  or  the  absence  of  breath,  and  established 
artificial  respiration.^  Blades  of  grass,  dried  flowers,  papyrus 
rolls,  tiny  figurines  in  glazed  pottery  hidden  in  the  thickness  of 
the  bandages,  bracelets,  rings,  plaques  strewn  with  hieroglyphs, 
the  thousand  small  objects  which  to-day  crowd  the  cases  of  our 
museums,  covered  the  trunk,  the  arms,  and  the  legs  like  pieces 
of  magic  armour.  The  soul  also  did  not  venture  defenceless  into 
the  life  beyond  the  tomb.  The  chapters  of  the  Book  of  the  Dead 
and  the  other  theological  writings,  of  which  a  copy  was  placed  in 
the  coflin,  were  charms  which  opened  up  the  roads  of  the  under- 
world for  the  soul  and  guarded  it  from  danger.  If  it  had 
taken  the  trouble  during  the  time  it  dwelt  in  the  body  to  learn 
these  spells,  all  was  well ;  but  if  poverty,  ignorance,  idleness,  or 
incredulity  had  prevented  its  receiving  the  necessary  instruction, 
even  after  death  a  charitable  relation  or  friend  might  act  as 
instructor.  It  was  sufiicient  to  recite  each  prayer  near  the 
mummy  or  over  the  amulets,  and  the  knowledge  would  be  im- 
parted to  the  disincarnated  soul  by  some  subtle  operation  that  I 
cannot  explain. 

This  was  the  common  fate.     Some  few  escaped  it  by  prestige 

'  Cf.  Le  Ritiiel  de  Vembauviement  in  Maspero,  Memoire  sur  quelqiiet 
papyrus  du  Lowore,  p.  14  et  snq. 

^  This  is  what  is  called  the  hypocephalus.  The  Saered  Booh  of  the 
Mormons  is  a  hypocephalus,  taken  to  America  and  purchased  by  the 
prophet  Joseph  Smith  (Devfiria,  Memovres  et  fragments,  vol.  i.  pp.  195-201). 

'  Booh  of  tlie  Bead,  chapters  xxx,  Ixzii. 


INTRODUCTION  Ixiii 

and  art  magic,  and  for  them  return  to  this  world  was  effected  by 
actual  rebirth  from  the  womb  of  a  woman.     Thus  it  happened 
to  Baiti  in  the  TcHe  of  the  Two  Brothers^  and  to  the  sorcerer 
Horus,  son  of  Panishi.     The  latter,  knowing  that  Egypt  was 
menaced  by  the  incursions  of  an  Ethiopian  invader,  insinuated 
himself  into  the  body  of  the  Princess  Mahltuaskhit,  and  was 
reborn  into  the  world  under  the  name  of  Senosiris  and  as  the 
son  of  Satni-Khdmols.     He  traversed  afresh  all  the  stages  of 
human  existence,  but  he  retained  the  acquirements  and  conscious- 
ness of  his  former  life,  and  only  returned  to  Hades  after  having 
victoriously  accomplished  the  patriotic  task  he  had  imposed  on 
himself.^     Others,  on  the  contrary,  who  only  wished  to  produce 
some  momentary  effect,  dispensed  with  so  lengthy  a  procedure. 
They  invaded  our  world  abruptly  and  under  the  form  that  seemed 
to  them  most  favourable  for  their  projects,  and  only  remained 
below  for  the  number  of  hours  that  were  absolutely  indispensable. 
Such  were  the  personages  that  Satni  found  collected  in  the  tomb 
of  Nenoferkephtah,  and  who  were  dead  only  in  appearance  and 
clothing.     They  were  mummies ;  the  blood  no  longer  ran  in  their 
veins,  their  limbs  were  stiffened  by  the  funerary  bandages,  their 
flesh  was  saturated  and  hardened  by  the  perfumes  of  the  em- 
balmment, their  skulls  were  empty.     Nevertheless  they  thought, 
spoke,  and  moved  ;  they  behaved  like  living  people ;  I  am  almost 
tempted  to  say  that  they  lived.     The  Book  of  Thoth  was  in  them, 
and  supported  them.     Madame  de  S6vign6  wrote  of  a  treatise 
by   M.  Nicole   that  she  "would   much   like   to   make  broth  of 
it   and  drink  it."     Nenoferkephtah  had  copied  the  formulae  of 
the   magic  book  on  a  new   papyrus;    he  had  dissolved  them  in 
water  and  had  then  swallowed  the  brew.'     Henceforth  he  was 
indestructible,  death  could  change  the  conditions  of   his  exist- 
ence, it  could  not  touch  his  actual  existence.     In  the  tomb  he 
demands  the  doubles  of  his  wife  and  son ;  he  infuses  them  with 
the  virtues  of  the  book,  and  resumes  with  them  the  routine  of 
family  life,  interrupted  for  a  time  by  the  formalities  of  embalm- 
ment.    He  can  go  in  and  out  as  he  pleases,  reappear  by  day, 

'  See  p.  19  of  this  volume. 

^  See  the  second  tale  of  Satni,  pp.  144-170  of  this  volume. 

'  "  The  most  approved  mode  of  charming  away  sickness  is  to  write  certain 
passages  of  the  Koran  on  the  inner  surface  of  an  earthenware  cup  or  bowl ; 
then  to  pour  in  some  water,  and  stir  it  until  the  writing  is  quite  washed 
off;  when  the  water,  with  the  sacred  words  thus  infused  in  it,  is  to  be 
drunk  by  the  patient"  (Lane,  Modem  Egyptians,  London,  1871,  vol.  i. 
320-321). 


IxLv  INTRODUCTION 

assume  any  form  he  pleases,  and  communicate  with  the  living. 
He  allows  his  power  to  remain  dormant ;  but  when  Satni  has 
despoiled  him,  he  does  not  hesitate  to  rouse  up  and  use  it  ener- 
getically. He  sends  his  wife  Ahuri  to  Memphis;  escorted  by 
pawns  from  a  chessboard,  who  for  the  time  have  become  so  many 
servants,'  she  disguises  herself  as  a  hierodule  to  seduce  the  thief. 
When  she  has  succeeded  in  her  work  of  perdition,  and  he  is 
helplessly  at  her  mercy,  Nenoferkephtah  appears  in  his  turn — at 
first  in  semblance  of  a  king  and  secondly  as  an  old  man,  and 
compels  him  to  restore  the  precious  manuscript.  He  could,  if 
he  desired,  draw  down  vengeance  on  the  impious  being  who  bad 
violated  the  secrecy  of  his  tomb ;  but  he  contents  himself  with 
employing  him  to  fulfil  such  of  his  wishes  as  could  only  be  done 
by  a  living  man.  He  forces  him  to  take  the  mummies  of  Ahuri 
and  Malhet,  which  were  in  exile  in  Coptos,  back  to  Memphis,  and 
to  unite  those  who  had  been  separated  by  the  enmity  of  Thoth,  in 
one  tomb. 

All  this  is  Egyptian  and  purely  Egyptian.  If  we  persist  in 
thinking  that  the  original  conception  is  foreign,  we  must  at  least 
confess  that  Egypt  had  appropriated  it  to  the  extent  of  rendering 
it  entirely  hers.  Elsewhere  we  find  mention  of  families  of 
spectres  or  assemblies  of  the  dead  escaped  from  their  cofiins,  but 
a  family  of  mummies  is  only  possible  in  the  hypogea  of  the  Nile 
Valley.  After  this  no  one  will  be  astonished  by  the  appearance 
of  a  ghost,  in  a  fragment — which  unfortunately  is  only  too  short — 
at  the  Florence  Museum.^  This  ghost  or,  to  call  him  by  his 
Egyptian  name,  this  hhu,  this  luminous,  faithful  to  the  habits  of 
his  congenitors,  related  his  story,  how  he  was  born  under  the 
King  flahotpu  of  the  XVIIth  dynasty,  and  what  his  life  had  been. 
His  auditors  do  not  appear  to  have  been  surprised  to  find  him  so 
loquacious;  they  knew  that  their  time  would  soon  come,  when 
they  would  be  such  as  he,  and  they  understood  the  joy  it  must  be 
to  a  poor  spirit  restricted  for  centuries  to  the  conversation  of 
spirits,  once  more  to  have  a  chat  with  the  living. 


This  is  sufficient  to  show  the  fidelity  with  which  the  popular 
narratives  depict  the  customs  and  beliefs  of   the  Egyptian  in 

'  See  p.  135,  note  3,  of  this  volume. 

2  Published  by  GoMnisoheffi  in  the  Jlecueil  de  Travaux  relatifs  a  VArcheo- 
logie  igyptienne  et  assyriemie,  1881,  vol.  iii,  p.  1  et  seq.;  cf.  pp.  275-279  of 
this  volume. 


INTRODUCTION  kv 

Egypt ;  it  is  interesting  to  extract  from  other  stories  the  im- 
pressions gained  by  the  Egyptian  when  travelling.  I  shall 
surprise  many  when  I  assert  thatjCall  things  considered,  the 
Egyptians  were  on  the  whole  a  nation  of  travellers.  One  is 
accustomed  to  regard  them  as  a  home-loving  people,  living  by 
routine,  so  infatuated  with  the  superiority  of  their  race  that  they 
did  not  wish  to  mix  with  any  other,  and  so  devoted  to  their 
country  as  never  to  leave  it  unless  forced  to  do  so.  /This  may 
have  been  true  at  the  Grseco-Roman  period,  notwithsCanding  that 
the  presence  of  errant  priests,  necromancers,  jugglers,  and  Egyp- 
tian sailors  in  different  parts  of  the  Empire  of  the  Caesars,  and 
even  as  far  away  as  Great  Britain,  shows  that  they  manifested  no 
reluctance  to  expatriate  themselves,  when  they  found  it  profit- 
able to  do  so.  But  that  which  may  have  been  the  case  in 
Egypt  when  aged  and  degenerated,  may  not  have  been  equally 
soin.Pharaonic  Egypt. 

/The  armies  of  Pharaoh  when  at  war  carried  followers  in  their 
train — merchants,  barterers,  people  of  all  sorts  ;  their  campaigns 
were  undertaken  almost  every  year,  and  almost  every  year 
thousands  of  Egyptians  left  their  valley  to  follow  the  conqueror/ 
and  for  the  most  part  returned  when  the  expedition  terminated.^ 
Thanks  to  this  periodical  exodus,  the  notion  of  travelling  became 
so  familar  to  the  spirit  of  the  nation,  that  the  scribes  did  not 
hesitate  to  include  this  theme  among  their  stylist  exercises.  One 
of  them  devoted  twenty  pages  of  small  writing  to  tracing  with 
considerable  accuracy  the  itinerary  of  a  circuitous  journey  under- 
taken across  the  Syrian  provinces  of  the  empire.^  The  ordinary 
incidents  are  briefly  indicated :  the  hero  penetrated  forests 
peopled  with  bandits  and  wild  animals,  and  encountered  bad 
roads,  hostile  tribes,  and  mountain  regions  where  his  chariot 
was  broken.  Most  of  the  towns  he  visited  are  merely  mentioned 
in  their  geographical  order,  but  picturesque  details  here  and 
there  interrupt  the  monotony  of  their  enumeration ;  there  is 
Tyre,  an  island  with  fish  more  numerous  than  the  sands  of  the 

I  From  the  Xllth  dynasty  onward  one  finds  allusions  to  the  dangers  of  j 
distant  journeysYMaspero,  Ihi,  genre  ejnstolaire,  pp.  59-60).  -' 

^  The  text  isnEound  in  the  Anastasi  Papyrus  No.  1,  pi.  xviii,  1.  3 — 
pL  xxviii,  1.  6.  It  was  analysed  by  Hincks,  translated  and  commented  on 
by  Chabas,  Le  Voyage  d'vm  Egyptien,  Paris,  Maisonneuve,  4to,  1866,  and 
published  anew  by  A.  H.  Gardiner,  the  Papyrus  Anastasi  1  and  the  Papyrus 
Koller,  Leipzig,  4to,  1911.  Chabas  believed  that  the  journey  was  actually 
undertaken.  H.  Brugsoh  has  shown  in  an  article  in  the  Bevue  Oritiqice, 
1866,  that  the  story  is  a  mere  practice  in  rhetoric. 

5 


Ixvi  INTRODUCTION 

sea,  boats  that  brouglit  it  water  from  the  mainland ;  there  is 
Byblos  and  its  great  goddess,  Joppa  and  its  numerous  orchards 
of  amorous  seductions.  "  I  will  cause  thee  to  know  the  road  that 
passes  by  MagLdi,  for  thou  art  a  hero  skilled  in  deeds  of  bravery  : 
is  there  a  hero  to  be  found  that  charges  like  thee  at  the  head  of 
his  soldiers,  a  lord  who  can  hurl  the  arrow  like  thee  ?  Thou  art 
then  on  the  edge  of  a  gulf  two  thousand  cubits  deep,  full  of  rocks 
and  boulders ;  thou  proceedest  carrying  thy  bow  and  brandishing 
thy  sword  with  the  left  hand ;  thou  showest  it  to  the  excellent 
chiefs,  and  thou  dost  oblige  their  eyes  to  be  lowered  before  thy 
hand.  '  Thou  art  a  destroyer  like  the  god  El,  beloved  hero.^ 
Thou  makest  a  name  for  thyself,  hero,  master  of  the  cavaliers  of 
Egypt.  May  thy  name  become  like  that  of  Kazarati,  chief  of  the 
country  of  Asaru,  when  the  hyenas  met  him  in  the  midst  of  the 
thickets,  in  the  sunken  road,  ferocious  as  the  Beduin  who  hide 
in  the  underwood,  some  of  them  as  long  as  four  or  five  cubits, 
their  bodies  as  massive  as  that  of  a  hippopotamus,  ferocious  of 
aspect,  pitiless,  deaf  to  prayers.'  Nevertheless  thou  art  alone, 
without  a  guide,  without  a  troop  following  thee,  and  thou  wilt 
not  find  a  mountaineer  to  show  thee  the  route  thou  shouldest 
follow ;  thus  anguish  will  seize  thee,  thy  hair  will  rise  upon  thy 
head,  thy  soul  will  pass  wholly  into  thy  hand,  because  the  road 
is  full  of  rocks  and  boulders,  with  no  way  marked  out,  obstructed 
by  holly,  brambles,  aloes,  dogs'-shoes,^  the  precipice  on  one  side, 
the  steep  mountain  on  the  other.  Whilst  thou  dost  travel  there 
thy  chariot  jolts  incessantly  and  thy  horses  are  terrified  at  each 
bump ;  they  leap  to  one  side,  they  drag  the  chariot-pole,  the  reins 
are  violently  dashed  away,  and  one  falls.  If  while  thou  art 
pushing  on  straight  before  thee  the  horse  drags  away  the  pole 
at  the  narrowest  part  of  the  path  there  is  no  means  of  fastening 
it  again,  and  as  there  is  no  means  of  readjusting  it,  the  yoke 
remains  in  place  and  the  horse  wearies  of  carrying  it.  Thy  heart 
yields  at  last ;  thou  dost  gallop,  but  the  sky  hath  no  clouds,  thou 
art  thirsty,  the  enemy  is  behind  thee,  thou  art  afeared,  and  when 
a  branch  of  acacia  crosses  thy  path  thou  throwest  thyself  to  one 
side,  thy  horse  is  wounded  at  once,  thou  art  thrown  to  the  ground 
and  art  bruised  with  much  pain.  Entering  into  Joppa,  thou 
findest  an  orchard  in  the  prime  of  the  season,  thou  makest  a  hole 

'  Here  the  foreign  chieftain  begins  to  apostrophise  the  hero  without 
any  other  indication  in  the  text  than  the  changes  in  the  phrasing. 

'  This  is  perhaps  one  of  the  thorny  plants  still  called  Kelbiah  or  Omm-el- 
Kelb  by  the  Arabs  of  Egypt  and  Syria. 


INTRODUCTION  Ixvii 

in  the  hedge  ia  order  to  enter  and  eat ;  there  thou  findest  the 
pretty  girl  who  has  charge  of  the  orchards,  she  makes  friends 
with  thee,  and  yields  the  flower  of  her  body  to  thee.  Thou  art 
seen,  thou  declarest  who  thou  art,  and  thou  art  recognised  as  a 
hero."  1  All  this  might  well  form  the  geographical  canvas  of  a 
Roman  novelist,  similar  to  certain  Byzantine  romances,  the 
jEthiopica  of  Heliodorus,  or  the  Loves  of  Clitophon  and  Leucippus. 

We  have  therefore  no  reason  to  be  surprised  that  the  heroes 
of  our  stories  travel  far  afield.  Ramses  II  marries  the  daughter 
of  the  prince  of  Bahktan  during  the  course  of  an  expedition, 
and  Khonsu  does  not  hesitate  to  place  his  ark  on  a  chariot  and 
set  forth  in  aid  of  Bintrashlt.*  In  the  Doomed  Prince,  a  son 
of  Pharaoh,  weary  of  home,  goes  in  search  of  adventures  to 
Naharinna,  in  the  north  of  Syria.'  It  is  at  Joppa,  in  Southern 
Syria,  that  Thutiyi  finds  an  opportunity  of  displaying  the 
qualities  of  a  crafty  soldier.*  Exile  carries  Sinuhit  to  the  Upper 
Tonu.'  Any  description  of  manners  and  customs  is  usually 
almost  entirely  absent,  and  there  are  no  details  to  show  that 
the  author  knew  more  than  the  mere,  name  of  the  country  to 
which  he  conducted  his  personages.  ^The  man  who  composed 
the  memoirs  of  Sinuhit  had,  however,  either  explored  the 
regions  he  describes,  or  had  consulted  those  who  had  been  there. 
He  must  have  braved  the  desert  and  experienced  its  terrors 
to  write  as  he  does  of  the  sufferings  of  his  hero.  "  Then  thirst 
rose  upon  me.  I  sank  down.  My  throat  rattled,  and  I  already 
said  to  myself,  'This  is  the  taste  of  death,' Jfcvhen  suddenly  I 
plucked  up  heart,  and  gathered  up  my  Umbs.  I  heard  the 
loud  voice  of  herds."  The  habits  of  the  Beduin  are  depicted 
to  the  life,  and  the  singular  combat  between  Sinuhit  and  the 
champion  of  Tonu  is  recorded  with  such  fidelity  that  one  might 
almost  take  it  to  be  the  story  of  a  fight  of  Antar  or  RebiA. 

To  complete  the  series  it  only  remained  to  discover  a  seafaring 
romance,  and  two  of  these  were  found  by  Gol6nischeff  at 
Petrograd.^     Greek  and  Latin  authors  repeatedly  asserted  that 

'  Anastasi  Pwpyriis  No.  1,  pi.  xxii,  1.  1 ;  pi.  xxv,  1.  5. 

2  See  pp.  174,  179  of  this  volume. 

'  See  p.  187  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 

'  See  p.  108  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 

'  See  p.  77  et  seq.  of  this  volume. 

•  Sur  un  a/ncien  conte  egyptien. — Read  at  the  Oriental  Congress  at 
Berlin  by  W.  GoMnischefE,  1881  ;  see  the  complete  bibliography  on 
pp.  98-100  of  this  volume.  The  second  was  published  for  the  first  time, 
under  the  title  Papyrus  hiiratique  de  la  collection  W.  GoUnischeff,  con- 


Ixviii  INTRODUCTION 

the  sea  was  regarded  by  the   Egyptians  as  impure,  and  that 
none  of  them  would  venture  on  it  of   his  free  will.      On  the 
authority  of  the  ancients  moderns  have  long  been  accustomed 
to  believe  that  Egypt  never  possessed  either  sailors  or  a  navy ; 
the  expedition  of  Queen  Hitshopsuitu,  the   naval   victories  of 
Eamses  III  were  thought  to  have  been  achieved  by  Phoenicians 
fighting  or  sailing  under  the  Egyptian  banner.     The  Petrograd 
romances    compel    us    to    renounce    this    hypothesis.     One    of 
them,  that  of   Unamunu,   is  the  voyage  of   an  officer  sent  by 
the  high  priest  Hrihoru  to    buy   wood   on   the   coast  of   Syria 
in  the  twelfth  century  before  our  era.^     The  incidents  are  those 
which  were  of  daily  occurrence  in  the  lives  of  merchants  and 
ambassadors,  and  the  whole  document  gives  us  an  impression 
of  maritime  cruises   similar   to  that  conveyed  by  the  Anastasi 
Papyrus  with  regard  to  journeys  by  land.'     The  misadventures 
are  of  the  same  kind  as  those  of  which  one  reads  in  accounts  of 
the  Levant  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  robbery 
on   shore,   iU-will   from    the    port  captains,   threats   from   petty 
local  tyrants,  discussions  and  interminable  palaver  for  permis- 
sion to  depart,  and  even  for  life.     The  second  romance  carries 
us  back  to  a  period  more  than  twenty  centuries  earlier,  when 
there  was   no   question  of   Egypt  conquering  Syria.     From  the 
monuments  we  are  already  familiar  with  the  maritime  expeditions 
to  the  land  of  Puanit  under  the  kings  of  the  Vlth  and  Xlth 
dynasties.^     The  Petrograd  romance  shows   us  that  the  sailors 
whom   the   sovereigns   of  the  Xllth  dynasty  commissioned   to 
make  long  journeys  to  purchasethe~p6rfumes  and  produce  of 
Arabia  were  Egyptians  of  good  position  and  education. 

Nothing  could  be  more  strange  than  the  opening  of  the  story. 
Some  person  sent  on  a  mission  has  returned  after  an  unlucky 
voyage  in  which  he  appears  to  have  lost  his  vessel.  One  of  his 
companions,  perhaps  the  captain  of  the  ship  which  has  picked 
him  up,  encourages  him  to  present  himself  boldly  before  the 
sovereign  and  to  plead  his  own  cause ;  to  reassure  him  as  to 
the  result  of  the  catastrophe  he  tells  what  happened  to  him 
under  similar  circumstances.      The   story  is   arranged   on    the 

tenant  la  voyage  de  VKgyytien  Ounou-Amon  en  Phenieie,  in  the  Recueil  de 
Travaux,  voL  xxi,  pp.   74-104 ;   of.   p.  202  rf  seq^  of  this  volume. 

'  See  p.  202  et  seg.  of  this  volume. 

'  See  above,  pp.  Ixv-lxvii  of  this  Introduction. 

'^  Under  Piupi  11  of  the  Vlth  dynasty  (J.  de  Morgan,  De  la  frontiere 
d'JEgypte  a  Kom-Ovibo,^^.  175-176),  and  under  Sankharlya  Montbotpu  of 
the  Xlth  (Lepsius,  Denkm.  II,  pi.  clx). 


INTRODUCTION  Ixix 

model  of  the  biographical  notices  that  the  great  lords  caused 
to  be  engraved  on  the  walls  of  their  rock  tombs,  or  the  reports 
they  addressed  to  their  sovereigns  after  the  accomplishment  of 
each  mission.  The  phrases  in  it  are  precisely  the  same  as  those 
employed  by  the  scribes  when  they  had  to  report  on  an  affair 
of  state.  "  I  went  to  the  mines  of  the  sovereign,  and  I  went 
to  sea  in  a  ve.'ssel  a  hundred  and  fifty  cubits  in  length  and  forty 
in  breadth,  which  carried  a  hundred  and  fifty  sailors  of  the 
best  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  who  had  beheld  the  heavens,  who  had 
beheld  the  earth,  and  who  were  bolder  of  heart  than  lions."  ^ 
The  monarch  Amoni-Amenemhait,  who  lived  about  the  time 
when  this  work  was  composed,  speaks  in  the  same  style  in 
the  memoir  that  he  has  left  us  of  his  career.  "  I  ascended 
the  Nile  in  order  to  seek  commodities  of  various  sorts  of 
gold  for  the  majesty  of  the  King  Khopirkeriya ;  I  ascended 
it  with  the  hereditary  prince,  the  eldest  legitimate  son  of  the 
king,  Amoni,  1.  h.  s. ;  I  ascended  it  with  the  number  of  four 
hundred  men  of  all  the  best  of  his  soldiers."  ^ 

If  it  had  chanced  that  ithe  end  of  the  manuscript  had  here 
been  torn  away  and  lost,  a  misfortune  to  which  Egyptologists 
are  well  accustomed,  we  should  almost  have  had  the  right  to 
conclude  that  it  contained  a  piece  of  actual  history  such  as  the 
Sallier  papyrus  No.  1  was  long  supposed  to  possess.'     Happily,  / 
however,  the   manuscript  is  complete,   and  we  can  see  clearly  \ 
how  the  hero  passed  without  any  intermediate  stages  from  the    i 
domain  of  reality  into  that  of  fable.     A  tempest  sinks  his  vessel,     ' 
and  he  is  cast  on  an  island.     There  is  nothing  unusual  in  the 
fact  itself,  but  the  island  on  which  he  lands,  alone  of   all  his 
comrades,  is  not  an  ordinary  island.     A  gigantic  serpent  dwells 
there  with  his  family,  a  serpent  who  welcomes  the  shipwrecked 
man,  entertains  and  feeds  him,  predicts  a  happy  return  for  him 
to   his   country,    and    loads    him    with    gifts   when   he    departs. 
Golenischeff  has   mentioned  in  this  connection  the  adventures 
of  Sindbad  the-sailor,^  and  the  pomparison  made  by  him  at  once 
impresses  itself  on  the  reader.     Only  the  serpents  of  Sindbad 

'  Cf.  pp.  100-101  of  this  volume. 

^  Za  Grande  Inscnption  de  BeniSassan,  in  the  Recneil  de  Travaiix 
relatifs  a  I'archeologie  egyptienne  et  assyrienne,  vol.  i,  p.  172  ;  cf.  Melanges 
de  Mythologie,  vol.  iii,  pp.  149-185;  see  Newberry,  Beni  Hasa/n,  Egypt 
Exploration  Fund,  1893,  Part  I,  p.  25,  pi.  viii. 

'  Cf.  pp.  269-274  of  this  volume. 

'  Sur  un  ancien  conte  egyptien,  pp.  H-18. 


Irx  INTRODUCTION 

are  not  so  accommodating  in  their  temper  as  those  of  his 
Egyptian  predecessor.  They  do  not  exert  themselves  to  entertain 
the  stranger  with  the  charms  of  friendly  conversation ;  they 
swallow  him  with  pleasure,  and  if  he  eventually  supplies  himself 
with  diamonds,  rubies,  and  other  precious  stones,  it  is  very  much 
against  their  will,  and  only  because,  notwithstanding  their  variety, 
they  have  failed  to  overcome  the  treasure  seeker. 

I  do  not,  however,  conclude  from  this  analogy  that  we  have  an 
Egyptian  version  of  the  story  of  Sindbad.  Stories  of  marvellous 
voyages  come  easily  from  the  Ups  of  sailors,  and  they  naturally 
present  a  certain  number  of  incidents  in  common — storm,  the 
shipwrecked  man  who  is  the  only  survivor  of  the  crew,  the  island 
inhabited  by  monsj^ers  who  talk,  and  the  unhoped-for  return  with 
a  wealthy  cargo..  The  man  who  like  Ulysses  has  accomplished 
a  long  voyage  has  a  very  feeble  critical  faculty  and  a  lively 
imagination ;  he  has  barely  got  beyond  the  pale  of  ordinary  life 
known  to  his  auditors,  before  he  plunges  full  sail  into  the  sphere 
of  miracles.'N  The  Livre  des  merveUles  de  I'lnde,^  the  Relations  des 
Marckands  nrabes,^  the  Prairies  d'or  of  Maqondi  inform  those 
curious  in  such  matters  what  was  seen  by  travellers  in  good  faith 
in  Java,  China,  India  and  on  the  west  coast  of  Africa  only  a 
few  centuries  ago.  ,'  Many  of  the  doings  recorded  in  theser'works 
were  inserted  in  the  same  manner  as  those  in  the  adventures  of 
Sindbad,  or  in- the  amazing  journeys  of  Prince  Seif-el-Moluk  ; 
j  the  Arabian  Mights  are  in  this  respect  no  more  untruthful  than 
the  serious  narrations  of  the  Mohammedan  middle  ages,lind  the 
Oairene  who  wrote  the  seven  voyages  of  Sindbad  had  rio  reason 
to  borrow  his  ideas  from  an  earlier  story.  He  had  only  to  read 
the  most  serious  authors  or  to  listen  to  the  tales  of  sailors  and 
merchants  returned  from  far-off  countries,  to  collect  a  super- 
abundance of  material. 

The  ancient  Egyptian  was  as  well  off  in  this  respect  as  the 
modern  Egyptian.  The  scribe  to  whom  we  owe  the  Petro- 
grad  story  had  the  much-travelled  captains  of  his  time  to 
guarantee  the  amazing  rubbish  that  he  set  forth.     At  the  time 

'  Zes  merveilles  de  VInde,  an  unpublished  Arab  work  of  the  tenth 
century,  translated  for  the  first  time,  with  introduction,  notes,  analytical 
and  geographical  index,  by  L.  Marcel  Devic :  Paris,  A.  Lemerre, 
MDCCCLXXVIII,  12mo. 

'  Belation  des  voyages  faits  par  Us  Arahes  et  Us  Persans  dans  VInde  et 
a  la  Chine,  daTis  U  iafi  siecU  de  I'ere  ehreti^nne.  Arab  text  printed  in  1811 
by  the  exertions  of  the  late  M.  Langlfes,  published  by  M.  Reinaud,  membre 
de  I'Institut,  Paris,  Imprimerie  royale,  1845,  2  vols.  ISmo. 


INTRODUCTION  Ixxi 

of  the  Vth  dynasty,  and  even  earlier,  the  Eed  Sea  was  navigated 
as  far  as  the  Land  of  Perfumes,  and  the  Mediterranean  as  far  as 
the  islands  of  the  Asiatic  coast.  The  scanty  geographical  names 
in  the  narrative  indicate  that  the  hero  directed  his  course  towards 
the  south.  He  arrived  at  the  mines  of  Pharaoh,  and  the  very 
authentic  autobiography  of  Amoni-Amenemhait  proves  that  they 
were  situated  in  Ethiopia  in  the  region  of  the  present  Etbaye, 
and  that  they  were  reached  by  way  of  the  Nile.  The  ship- 
wrecked sailor  is  also  at  pains  to  tell  us  that,  after  having  arrived 
at  the  far  end  of  the  country  of  Wawalt,  at  the  south  of  Nubia, 
he  passed  SanmuJt,  that  is  to  say  the  island  of  Bigeh,  at  the 
first  cataract.  He  went  up  the  Nile,  he  reached  the  sea,  where 
a  long  voyage  brought  him  exactly  to  the  neighbourhood  of 
Puanit,  and  he  then  returned  to  the  Thebaid  by  the  same  route. ^ 
The  reader  of  to-day  can  make  nothing  of  this  mode  of  proceeding, 
but  it  is  only  necessary  to  consult  some  map  of  the  xvith  or 
xviith  century  to  realise  what  the  Egyptian  scribe  wished  to 
convey.  The  centre  of  Africa  is  there  occupied  by  a  great  lake 
whence  the  Congo  and  Zambesi  flowed  on  one  side  and  the  Nile 
on  the  other.2  The  Alexandrian  geographers  never  doubted 
that  the  Astapus  and  Astaboras,  the  Blue  Nile  and  the  Tacazzeh, 
threw  out  branches  to  the  east  that  established  communication 
with  the  Eed  Sea.'  The  Arab  merchants  of  the  Middle  Ages 
believed  that  by  following  up  the  Nile  one  reached  the  country  of 
the  Zingis  (Dinkas),  and  then  passed  out  into  the  Indian  Ocean.* 
Herodotus  and  his  contemporaries  derived  the  Nile  from  the  Ocean 
river.^  Neither  Arabs  nor  Greeks  invented  this  idea — theyrepeated 
the  Egyptian  tradition.  This  in  turn  may  have  had  more  solid 
foundations  than  would  appear  at  first  sight.  The  low  marshy 
plain  where  the  Bahr-el-Abiad  at  the  present  day  unites  with 
the  Sabat  and  the  Bahr-el-Ghaz^l   was  formerly  a  lake  larger 

'  Brman  (^Mgypten  und  ^gyptisehes  Leien,  p.  668)  and  Schafer 
(^KriegeraiLswanderv/ny  unter  Psa/mmetih  wnd  Soldneravfstand  iinter 
Apries,  in  the  Seitrdge  zur  Alien  Geschickte,  vol.  iv,  pi.  162  and  note  1) 
consider  that  the  return  alone  was  by  way  o£  the  Mile,  and  that  the  hero 
started  by  the  Eed  Sea. 

^  Cf.  the  map  of  Odoardo  Lopez  reproduced  by  Maspero,  in  his  Jlistoire 
ancientie  des  peuples  de  I' Orient  classique,  vol.  i,  p.  21. 

'  Artemidorus,  in  Strabo,  Ixvii,  p.  770.  Cf.  Vivien  de  Saint-Martin, 
Le  JVord  de  VAfrique  dans  I'AntiguUi,  pp.  226-268,  318. 

*  ^tienne  Quatremfere,  Memoires  gSographiqves  et  higtoriqyues  sur 
V^gypte  et  sv/r  quelqiies  centries  voisines,  vol.  ii,  pp.  181-182,  from  Ma90udi. 

^  Herodotus,  II,  xxi. 


Ixxii  INTRODUCTION 

than  the  Nyanza  Keroue  of  our  time.  The  alluvial  deposits  have 
gradually  filled  it  up  with  the  exception  of  one  basin  deeper  than 
the  rest,  now  called  the  Birket-Nu  and  which  is  warping  from 
day  to  day  ;  i  but  in  the  sixteenth  or  seventeenth  century  B.C.  it 
must  have  been  sufficiently  vast  to  give  an  impression  to  the 
Egyptian  soldiers  and  river  boatmen  of  an  actual  sea  opening 
on  to  the  Indian  Ocean. 

Had  the  island  on  which  our  hero  landed  any  right  to  figure 
in  a  serious  geography  of  the  Egyptian  world  ?     It  is  described 
as  a  fantastic  abode,  the  road  to  which  it  is  not  given  to  every 
one  to  find.     He  who  left  it  could  not  return ;  it  resolved  into 
waves — and  sank  beneath  the  surge.     It  is  a  distant  prototype 
of  those  enchanted  lands  —the  island  of  St,  Brandan,  for  example — 
that  mariners  of  the  Middle  Ages  frequently  saw  in  the  haze  of 
the  horizon,  and  which  vanished  when   they  attempted  to  ap- 
proach them.     The  name  borne  by  the  island  is  very  significant ; 
it  is  called  the  Island  of  the  Double.^     I  have  so  often  explained 
what   the  double    was '  that    I    hesitate   to    refer    to   it    again. 
The   double  was  part  of  the  human   entity,   that   survived   the 
body,  and  had  to  be  clothed,  lodged,  and  fed  in  the  next  world  ; 
an    island    of    the    double    must    be    an    island   inhabited    by 
the   dead,    a    species    of    paradise   similar   to    the    Isles  of    the 
Blessed   of   classical  antiquity.     The  geographers  of    the  Alex- 
andrian epoch   knew  of  it,  and  it  is  in  accordance  with   them 
that  Pliny  *  indicates  an  Island  of  the  Dead  in  the  Red  Sea,  not 
far  from  the  island  Topazon,  which  is  concealed  in  mists '  in  the 
same  way  that  the  Island  of  the  Double  is  lost  to  sight  amidst 
the  waves.     It  was  the  residue  of  a  larger  country,  a  Land  of  the 
Doubles,  that  the  Egyptians  of  the  Memphite  Empire  placed  in 
the  neighbourhood  of   Puanit,   and   the  region  of   the  Land  of 

'  ]6lis6e  Reclus,  Nouvelle  Beographie  uiiiverselle,  vol.  ix,  p.  67  et  seq. 

'  Erman  calls  it  the  Island  of  ProvisioQS  {Zeitsohrift,  1906,  vol.  xliii, 
pp.  14-15),  and  Gol§nischeflE  the  Island  of  the  Genii,  the  enchanted  isle 
(Reoueil  de  Travaux,  vol.  xxviii,  p.  98). 

'  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  i,  pp.  191-194. 

'  Pliny,  H.  Nat.  B.  xxxvii,  9 :  "  Insula  Rubri  maris  ante  Arabiam  sita 
quaa  Necron  vocetur,  et  in  ed  quae  juxta  gemmam  topazion  ferat."  Cf. 
H.  Nat.  vi,  the  mention  of  the  island  Topaz6n,  which  is  identical  with  the 
Ophi6d6s  of  Artemidorus  (in  Strata,  1.  xvi,  p.  770),  and  Agatharchides  (in 
Diodorus  of  Sicily,  III,  xxxix).  Pliny  probably  borrowed  the  mention  of 
this  Island  of  the  Dead  from  Juba. 

'  Cf.  Chassinat,  Ca  et  la,  §  III,  in  the  Recueil  de  Travaux,  vol.  xvii, 
p.  53,  and  Maspero,  Notes  sur  quelqucs  points  de  grammaire  et  d'histoire  in 
the  Recueil  de  Travaux.  vol.  xvii,  pp.  76-78. 


INTRODUCTION  Ixxiii 

Perfumes.*  The  serpent  that  ruled  there  may  himself  have  been 
a  double,  or  the  overseer  of  the  dwelling  of  the  doubles.  I 
incline  rather  to  the  second  explanation,  because  in  all  the  sacred 
books,  the  Booh  of  the  Dead,  and  the  Booh  of  Knowing  that  which 
is  in  the  World  of  Night,  the  guardianship  of  those  places  where 
the  souls  dwell  is  most  frequently  entrusted  to  serpents  of  various 
kinds.  The  doubles  were  too  tenuous  to  be  visible  to  the  eye  of 
an  ordinary  man,  and  therefore  they  do  not  come  into  the 
Petrograd  story.  The  guardian  was  of  more  solid  mould, 
and  therefore  the  shipwrecked  man  could  enter  into  relations 
with  him.  Lucian  in  his  True  History  does  not  stand  so  much 
on  ceremony.  Almost  as  soon  as  he  landed  in  the  Elysian  fields 
he  entered  into  friendly  relations  with  the  manes,  and  kept 
company  with  the  Homeric  heroes.  This  was  done  to  form  a  more 
complete  satire  on  the  maritime  romances  of  the  time ;  the 
Egyptian  scribe  who  believed  in  the  existence  of  the  isles  where 
dwelt  the  blessed  ones  brought  the  adventures  of  his  hero  into 
conformity  with  the  details  of  his  religion. 

This  journey  of  a  simple  sailor  to  the  Island  of  the  Double  is, 
in  fact,  brought  into  the  domain  of  theology.  According  to  one 
of  the  most  widely  accepted  theories,  the  Egyptian  when  dead 
could  only  reach  the  next  world  by  means  of  a  long  voyage.  He 
embarked  on  the  Nile  on  the  day  of  burial,  and  arrived  at  the 
west  of  Abydos,  where  the  Osirian  canal  carried  him  out  of  this 
world.  2  The  monuments  show  him  steering  his  bark  and 
making  his  way  full  sail  on  the  mysterious  sea  of  the  west,  but 
they  do  not  tell  us  what  was  the  object  of  his  voyage.  In  a 
general  way  it  was  well  understood  that  it  ended  by  his  landing 
in  the  country  that  mingles  men,^  and  that  he  would  there 
lead  a  life  similar  to  his  terrestrial  existence.  But  with  regard 
to  the  position  of  this  land  ideas  were  contradictory.  Was  the 
belief  in  a  western  sea  a  mere  mythological  conception,  or  may 
it  not  have  been  an  indistinct  recollection  of  a  far-distant  period 
when  the  waters  of  the  Libyan  desert,  that  which  is  now  called 
the  Bahr-held-md,  the  rivers  without  water,  had  not  yet  dried  up, 
and  formed  a  barrier  of  lakes  and  morasses  in  front  of  the  valley? 
Whatever  we  may  think  of  these  questions,  it  seems  to  me  certain 

'  It  is  mentioned  in  the  inscription  of  Hirkhftf  (Schiaparelli,  Una  tomha 
eghiiana,,  pp.  21,  33,  34 ;  Maspero,  Histoire  ancienne,  vol.  i,  pp.  19-20). 

^  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol  i,  p.  121  et  seq. 

'  This  is  the  exact  expression  of  the  Egyptian  texts  (Maspero,  Etudes 
effyjjtiennes,  vol.  i,  p.  135. 


Ixxiv  INTRODUCTION 

that  there  is  some  indisputable  connection  between  the  journey 
of  [the  shipwrecked  sailor  to  the  Island  of  the  Doublet'  and  the 
vojrage  of  the  dead  on  the  sea  of  the  west,  ^he  St.  Petersburg 
story  is  little  more  than  a  theological  idea  transformed  into  a 
romance.  It  affords  the  earliest  in  date  of  those  narratives 
where  popular  imagination  was  pleased  to  represent  the  living 
admitted  with  impunity  among  the  dead ;  and  thus  it  is  a  very 
remote  ancestor  of  the  Divine  ComedyT^  We  cannot  say  whether 
or  not  the  original  conception  was  Egyptian.  If  by  chance  it 
were  not,  we  must  at  least  admit  that  it  is  treated  in  a  manner 
that  in  all  points  agrees  with  the  manners  and  ideas  of  the 
Egyptians. 

The  future  will  no  doubt  bring  us  other  fragments  of  this 
literature  of  romance.  Several  have  emerged  from  the  ground 
since  the  first  edition  of  this  book,  and  I  know  of  others  that  are 
concealed  in  foreign  museums  or  in  private  collections  to  which 
access  has  not  been  allowed  me.  New  publications  and  dis- 
coveries may  force  us  to  reconsider  the  conclusions  at  which  we 
have  arrived  by  examination  of  the  fragments  already  open  to 
us.  An  Egyptologist  speaking  in  favour  of  Egypt  is  always 
suspected  of  arguing  in  his  own  cause,  but  nevertheless  there  are 
several  points  that  I  think  I  may  safely  bring  forward  without 
incurring  the  charge  of  partiality.  The  first  point  which  no  one 
will  contest  is  that  some  of  the  Egyptian  versions  are  far  more 
ancient  than  those  of  other  nations.  The  manuscripts  that 
contain  the  Tah  of  ike  Two  Brothers  and  the  QvMrrel  of  Apopi 
and  Saqniinriya  are  of  the  fourteenth  or  thirteenth  century  B.C. 
The  Shipwrecked  Sailor,  the  Fantastic  Story  of  Berlin,  and  the 
Memoirs  of  Sinuhit  were  written  several  centuries  earlier.  And 
these  dates  are  only  a  minima,  for  the  papyri  we  possess  are 
copies  of  more  ancient  ones.  India  has  nothing  of  equal  anti- 
quity, and  Chaldsea,  which  alone  among  the  countries  of  the 
classic  world  possesses  monuments  contemporaneous  with  those 
of  Egypt,  has  not  yielded  a  single  romance.  In  the  second  place, 
the  summary  consideration  of  the  subject  I  have  given  here  will, 
I  hope,  be  sufficient  to  convince  the  reader  of /the  fidelity  with 
which  these  stories  depict  the  habits  and  customs  of  Egypt. 
Everything  in  them  is  Egyptian  from  beginning  to  end,  and 
even  the  details  that  have  been  pointed  out  as  being  of  foreign 
provenance  appear  to  us  to  be  entirely  indigenous  when  closely 
examined.  Not  only  the  living,  but  also  the  dead,  have  the 
peculiar  characteristics  of  the  people  of  the  Nile,  and  could  not 


INTRODUCTION  Ixxv 

in  any  way  be  mistaken  for  the  living  or  the  dead  of  another 
nation.     From  these  facts  I  consider  that  Egypt  must  be  re-   U 
garded,  if  not  as  the  original  home  of  folk  tales,  at  least  as  one    1 
of  those  countries  in  which  they  were  earliest  naturalised,  and     ' 
where  they  earliest  assumed  the  form  of  actual  literature^jJ  am 
convinced  that  those  entitled  to  speak  with  most  authority  will 
agree  with  this  conclusion. 


POPULAE   STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

THE   STORY   OF  THE   TWO   BROTHERS 

(XIXth   DYNASTY) 

The  manuscript  of  this  story,  bought  in  Italy  by  Madame  Elizabeth 
d'Orbiney,  was  sold  by  her  to  the  British  Museum  in  1857,  and 
was  shortly  afterwards  reproduced  by  Samuel  Birch  in  the  Select 
Papyri,  vol.  ii,  pi.  ix-xix  (1860),  folio.  A  cursive  edition  of  this 
facsimile  occupies  pp.  22-40  of  JUgyptische  Chrestomathie  by  Leo 
Eeinisch,  Vienna,  1875,  small  folio,  and  a  very  careful  copy  has 
been  given  by  G.  MoUer,  Hieratische  Lesestucke,  Leipzig,  1910,  small 
folio,  vol.  ii,  pp.  1-20.  F.  LI.  Griffith  has  carefully  compared  the 
text  with  the  original,  and  has  published  his  collation  under  the 
title  Notes  on  the  Text  of  the  d'Orbiney  Papyrus,  in  the  Proceedings 
of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Archceology,  vol.  vii,  1888-9,  pp.  161-172 
and  414-416. 

The  text  was  translated  and  analysed  for  the  first  time  by  E.  de 
Kouge,  Notice  sur  un  maniiscrit  egyptien,  en  ecriture  hieratique, 
icrit  sous  le  regne  de  Merienphtah,  fls  du  grand  Ramses,  vers  le 
xv'  siecle  avant  Vere  chretienne,  in  the  Athenwum  Frangais, 
Saturday,  October  30,  1852,  pp.  280-284  (printed  separately  by 
Thunot,  1852,  12mo,  24  pp.),  and  in  the  Bevue  archiologique, 
1st  series,  vol.  viii,  pp.  30  et  seq.  (printed  separately  by  Leleu,  1852, 
iSvo,  15  pp.  and  1  pi.) ;  this  memoir  has  been  republished  in  the 
(Euvres  Diverses,  vol.  ii,  pp.  303-319. 

Subsequently  numerous  analyses,  transcriptions  and  translations 
have  been  given  by  : 

C.  W.  Goodwin,  Hieratic  Papyri,  in  Cambridge  Essays,  1858, 
pp.  232-239. 

Mannhardt,  Das  dlteste  Mdrchen,  in  Zdtschrift  fiir  Deutsche 
Mythologie  und  Sittenkunde,  1859. 

Birch,  Select  Papyri,  part  ii,  London,  1860.     Text,  pp.  7-9. 

Le  Page  Renouf,  On  the  Decypherment  and  Interpretation  of  Dead 
Languages,  London,  1863,  8vo  ;  reproduced  in  The  Life  Work  of 
Sir  Peter  Le  Page  Betwuf,  1st  series,  vol.  i,  pp.  116-133. 

1 


2  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT   EGYPT 

^  Chabas,  Etvde  anodytique  d'un  texte  difficile,  in  the  Melanges 
Egyptologiques,  2n(i  series,  1864,  pp.  182-230. 

Brugsch,  Aus  dem  Orient,  1864,  pp.  7  et  seq. 

Ebers,  jEgypten  und  die  Biicher  Moses,  8vo,  1st  ed.,  1868, 
pp.  311-316. 

Vladimir  Stasow,  Drewnejsaja  powest  w  mird  "  Roman  dwuch 
bratjew  "  (Le  plus  anaien  conte  du  Monde,  le  Roman  des  deiuc  Freres), 
in  the  Review  Westnik  Jewropi  (les  Messagers  d'Uurope),  1868, 
vol.  V,  pp.  702-732. 

Maspero,  Le  Conte  des  deux  Freres,  in  the  Revue  des  Cours 
litteraires,  February  28,  1871,  pp.  780  et  seq. 

Le  Page  Renouf,  The  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers,  in  Records  of  the 
Past,  1st  series,  vol.  ii,  pp.  137-152 ;  cf.  his  Parallels  in  Folklore, 
in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Archeology,  vol.  xi, 
pp.  177-189,  reproduced  in  The  Life  Work,  vol.  iii,  pp.  311-327. 

Maspero,  Conte  des  deux  Freres,  in  the  Revue  archiologique,  2nd 
series,  xixth  year  (March  1878).  Printed  separately  by  Didier, 
Paris,  8vo,  16  pp. ;  reproduced  in  Melanges  de  Mythologie  et  d'ArcMo- 
logie  Egyptiennes,  vol.  iii,  pp.  42-66. 

Chabas,  Conte  des  deux  Freres,  in  the  Choix  de  textes  dgyptiens, 
published  after  his  death  by  M.  de  Horrack,  Paris,  1883,  8vo,  pp.  5 
et  seq.  ;  reproduced  in  CEuvres  diverses,  vol.  v,  pp.  424-435. 

E.  M.  Coemans,  Manuel  de  la  langue  egyptienne,  1887,  vol.  i, 
pp.  95-120. 

W.  N.  Groff,  Etude  sur  le  Papyrus  d'Orbiney,  Paris,  Leroux, 
4to,  84-iii  pp.,  and  Quelques  Observations  sur  mon  Etude  sur  le 
Papyrus  d'Orbiney,  Leroux,  1889,  4to,  viii  pp. 

Ch.  E.  Moldenke,  The  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers.  A  fairy  tale 
of  ancient  Egypt,  being  the  d'Orbiney  Papyrus  in  hieratic  character 
in  the  British  Museum;  to  which  is  added  the  hieroglyphic  tran- 
scription, a  glossary,  critical  notes,  etc.     New  York,  1888-93,  8vo. 

E.  W.  Budge,  Egyptian  Reading  Book,  1st  ed.  London,  Nutt, 
1888,  8vo,  pp.  xi  and  1-25,  contains  merely  the  transcription  of  the 
text  into  hieroglyphs  ;  there  have  been  several  later  editions. 

W.  Flinders  Petrie,  Egyptian  Tales,  1895,  vol.  ii,  pp.  36-86. 

Ch.  E.  Moldenke,  The  Oldest  Fairy  Tale  translated  from  the 
Papyrus  d'Orbiney,  with  Notes,  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Meriden 
Scientific  Association,  Meriden,  1895,  8vo,  vol.  vii,  pp.  33-81. 

Karl  Piehl,  En  gammla  Saga,  in  Bilder  fran  Egypten,  1896,  8vo. 

F.  LI.  Griffith,  Egyptian  Literature,  in  Specimen  Pages  of  the 
World's  Best  Literature,  New  York,  1898,  8vo,  pp.  5253-5262. 

D.  A.  Speransky,  Iz  literatury  Dpewnjago  Jegygta,  Wipuski : 
Razskaz  o  dwicch  bratjach  (Le  Conte  des  deux  Freres),  St.  Petersburg, 
1906,  8vo,  264  pp. 

A.  Wiedemann,  Altaegyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  Leipzig,  1906, 
small  8vo,  pp.  58-77. 

The  manuscript  includes  nineteen  pages  of  ten  lines,  of  which  the 


THE   STORY  OF   THE   TWO   BROTHERS  3 

first  five  are  considerably  damaged.  Several  lacunae  have  been  filled 
in  by  one  of  its  modern  owners,  and  were  pointed  out  on  the  fac- 
simile. On  the  book  in  two  places  is  the  name  of  its  ancient  pro- 
prietor, Setiii  Mainephtah,  who  reigned  later  under  the  name  of 
SStlii  II.  On  the  verso  of  one  of  the  leaves  oome  contemporary 
person,  perhaps  Set<ii  himself,  has  traced  the  following  memorandum 
(cf.  W.  Spiegelberg,  Bechnungen,  p.  41,  n.  8) : 

Large  loaves 17 

Loaves  of  second  quality 50 

Temple  loaves     .......    68 

The  manuscript  comes  from  the  workshop  of  the  scribe  Ennana, 
to  which  we  owe  several  other  editions  of  classical  works,  among 
others  the  Papyrus  Anastasi  IV.,  and  which  was  in  full  activity 
under  the  reigns  of  Kamses  II.,  Menephtah,  and  S^tiii  II.  It  has 
been  in  existence  over  three  thousand  years. 

There  were  once  tviro  brothers,  who  were  sons  of  the  same 
mother  and  of  the  same  father^:  Anupu^  was  the  name 
of  the  elder,  while  Baiti  ^  was  the  name  of  the  younger. 
Now  Anupu  had  a  house  and  a  wife,  but  his  younger  brother 
lived  with  him  altogether  as  a  junior.  It  was  he  who 
fashioned  the  stuffs  even  as  he  followed  the  cattle  to  the 
field*:,*  it  was  he  who  did  the  ploughing,  it  was  he  who 
befit  out  the  grain,  he  who  performed  all  the  field  work ; 

'  Polygamy  was  permitted,  although  it  was  not  always  practised  by 
private  individuals.  A  rich  man,  after  having  had  children  by  a  lawful  wife 
or  a  concubine,  would  often  give  her  in  marriage  to  some  subordinate,  who 
would  have  children  by  her  in  his  turn.  It  was  not  therefore  unnecessary 
in  naming  two  brothers,  to  say  that  they  were  "  of  the  same  mother  and  of 
the  same  father."  The  precedence  here  accorded  to  the  mother  over  the 
father  was  the  common  right  in  Egypt ;  every  one,  whether  noble  or  com- 
moner, stated  bis  maternal  in  preference  to  his  paternal  parentage.  One 
would  call  himself  "  Sanfiasrit,  born  of  the  lady  Mankhult,"  or  another 
"  Sesiisriya,  born  of  the  lady  Ta-Amon,"  and  would  most  frequently  omit 
to  mention  the  name  of  his  father. 

^  Original  form  of  the  divine  name,  rendered  Anubis  by  the  Greeks  and 
Romans. 

'  Balti,  Beti,  Buti  is  the  name  of  a,  very  ancient  god  with  a  double 
bull's  head  (cf.  Introduction,  pp.  xxii-xxiii)  that  the  native  chronicle  trans- 
formed into  a  king  of  the  time  previous  to  Menes.  The  Greeks  knew  this 
mythical  sovereign  under  the  name  of  Butes  or  But6s,  Bytis. 

*  The  fellahln  spin  at  the  present  day  as  they  lead  their  flocks  and  herds 
to  pasturage  ;  it  is  to  some  custom  of  the  kind  that  this  passage  alludes. 


4  STORIES   OF   ANCIEIIT  EGYPT 

for  this  younger  brother  was  an  excellent  worker,  and  he 
had  no  equal  in  the  Entire  Land,^  but  the  seed  of  every 
god  was  in  him.  And  many  days  after  that,^  when  the 
younger  brother  yas  behind  his  cows,  according  to  his 
daily  custom,  he  cam^  every  evening  to  his  house,  laden 
with  all  the  plants  of  the  fields,  as  is  done  on  returning 
from  the  fields.  He  laid  them  down  before  his  elder 
brother,  who  was  seated  with  his  wife ;  he  ate,  he  drank, 
he  slept  in  his  stable  with  the  cows  each  day.'  And  when 
the  earth  lightened  and  it  was  a  second  day,  as  soon  as 
the  loaves  were  baked,  he  placed  them  before  his  elder 
brother,  who  gave  him  some  loaves  for  the  field.  He  drove 
his  cows  to  feed  in  the  fields,  and  while  he  walked  behind 
his  cows  they  said  to  him,  "  The  grass  is  good  in  such  a 
place,"  for,  as  to  him,  he  listened  to  ali  that  they  said,  and 


'  Egypt  was  divided  into  two  halves  (pashui),  into  two  Lands  (taui'),  each 
of  which  was  regarded  as  forming  a  distinct  country — that  of  the  north 
(to-mdri),  and  that  of  the  south  (to-risi  or  to-shamait).  The  union  of 
these  two  lands  was  called  sometimes  Qamait,  the  black  land ;  sometimes 
Torzeruf,  the  Entire  Land. 

2  This  transition  must  not  be  taken  literally.  "  Many  days  after  toat  " 
does  not  necessarily  Imply  a  considerable  lapse  of  time  ;  it  is  a  formula  of 
uncertain  value,  employed  to  indicate  that  one  event  was  posterior  to 
another.  To  mark  the  passage  of  time  from  one  day  to  the  next  the 
expression  was  used,  "  When  the  earth  lightened  and  it  was  a  second 
day  " ;  while  for  an  interval  longer  than  the  day  following  "  Many  days 
after  that "  was  used. 

'  In  the  pictures  of  agriculture  one  frequently  sees  the  herdsman  driving 
his  cattle  in  front  of  him,  whence  the  expression  "  To  walk,  to  go  behind 
the  cattle  "  used  instead  of  "  to  lead  the  cattle."  On  his  shoulders  he 
carries  a  sort  of  pack-saddle,  similar  to  the  shoulder  strap  of  the  French 
water-carriers,  from  which  baskets  filled  with  hay  or  grass  are  hanging,  as 
in  the  case  of  Baiti,  or  cages  containing  a  hare,  a  hedgehog,  the  fawn  of 
a  gazelle,  a  goose,  or  a  creature  of  some  kind  caught  during  the  day.  On 
returning  to  the  house,  the  herdsman  deposited  his  load  before  his  master, 
who  is  represented  sometimes  standing,  sometimes  seated  on  a  chair  beside 
his  vrife,  like  Anupu  in  our  romance.  The  same  expression  and  several 
others  that  occur  in  the  course  of  the  story  are  found  word  for  word  in  the 
text  on  the  paintings  of  El  Kab,  where  scenes  of  field  labour  are  repre- 
sented (Lepsius,  DenkmdUr,  III.  pi.  10,  and  Maspero,  Notes  sur  differents 
pointi  de  Orammaire  et  d'Histoire^  in  Zeitschrift  filr  ^gyptUche  Sjiraohe 
1879,  pp.  58-63). 


THE   STORY  OF  THE   TWO   BROTHERS  5 

guided  them  to  the  good  pasturage  they  desired.  And 
they,  the  cows  that  were  with  him,  they  became  fine, 
exceedingly,  exceedingly,  they  multiplied  their  births,  ex- 
ceedingly, exceedingly  .^ 

And  on  a  time,  at  the  season  of  tillage,  his  elder  brother 
said  to  him,  "  Prepare  for  us  our  oxen,  then  we  may  set  to 
work,  for  the  land  has  emerged  out  of  the  water  ^  and  is 
good  for  tillage.  Thou  therefore,  go  thou  to  the  field  with 
the  seed,  for  we  will  begin  to  work  to-morrow  morning." 
Thus  he  spake  to  him,  and  his  younger  brother  did  all  the 
things  that  his  elder  brother  had  said  to  him,  as  many  as 
they  were.  When  the  earth  lightened  and  it  was  a  second 
day,  they  went  to  the  fields  with  their  team  to  begin  work, 
and  their  heart  was  joyous,  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  with 
their  work,  and  they  did  not  cease  from  work. 

And  many  days  after  that,  while  they  were  in  the  fields 
and  were  hoeing,  the  elder  brother  sent  his  younger  brother, 
saying,  "Run,  bring  us  the  seed  from  the  village."  The 
younger  brother  found  the  wife  of  his  elder  brother,  who 
was  having  her  hair  dressed.'  He  said  to  her,  "  Up  !  Give 
me  the  seed,  that  I  may  run  to  the  fields,  for  my  elder 
brother  waits  for  me ;  do  not  cause  me  to  delay ! " 
She  said  to  him,  "  Go,  open  the  hutch,*  and  take  what 
pleases  thee,  so  that  the  dressing  of  my  hair  may  not  be 


'  All  this  part  was  not  so  incredible  to  the  Egyptian  as  it  is  to  us 
(of.  Iivtroduction,  p.  1).  We  shall  see,  in  a  fragment  of  a  fantastic 
story  given  later  on  (pp.  265-268),  that  the  good  herdsman  should  be 
something  of  a  magician  in  order  to  protect  his  beasts :  the  author  of 
the  Story  of  the  Tuio  Brothers  has,  however,  permitted  himself  to  endow 
Baiti  with  rather  more  knowledge  than  the  ordinary  drover  possessed. 

^  This  is  an  allusion  to  the  subsidence  of  the  inundation. 

'  The  coiffure  of  the  Egyptian  women  usually  consisted  of  a  great  number 
of  very  small  plaits  ;  it  required  several  hours  to  arrange,  and  once  accom- 
plished it  would  remain  undisturbed  for  several  days  or  even  for  several 
months,  as  with  the  Nubian  women  of  to-day. 

■*  This  refers,  probably,  to  the  hutches  of  beaten  earth  figured  on  the 
ancient  tables  of  offerings  in  the  form  of  peasant  huts,  and  which  are  still 
in  use  throughout  modem  Egypt. 
6 


6  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

left  unfinished."  The  youth  went  into  the  stable,  he  fetched 
a  large  jar,  for  his  intention  was  to  take  plenty  of  grain, 
he  filled  it  with  wheat  and  with  barley,  and  he  went  out 
under  the  load.  She  said  to  him,  "  What  is  the  quantity 
that  is  on  thy  shoulder  ?  "  He  said  to  her,  "  Barley,  three 
measures ;  wheat,  two  measures  ;  five  in  all — that  is  what 
I  have  on  my  shoulder."  Thus  he  said  to  her,  but  she,  she 
addressed  him  saying,  "  There  is  great  prowess  in  thee,  and 
I  observe  -thy  strength  each  day."  ^  And  her  heart  went 
out  to  him  as  one  desires  a  young  man.^  She  arose,  she 
laid  hold  on  him,  she  said  to  him,  "  Come,  let  us  lie  together 
for  the  space  of  one  hour.  If  thou  wilt  grant  me  this,  in 
faith  I  will  make  thee  two  beauteous  garments."  The  youth 
became  like  a  cheetah  of  the  south  in  hot  rage,  because  of 
the  evil  suggestion  she  had  made  to  him,  and  she  was 
frightened  exceedingly,  exceedingly.  He  spake  to  her, 
saying,  "  But  in  truth  thou  art  to  me  as  a  mother,  and  thy 
husband  is  to  me  as  a  father,  and  he  who  is  my  elder,  it  is 
he  who  enables  me  to  live.  Ah  !  this  horrible  thing  that 
thou  hast  said  to  me,  do  not  say  it  to  me  again,  and  for  me 
I  shall  tell  it  to  no  one  ;  I  shall  not  let  it  escape  from  my 
mouth  for  any  one."  He  took  up  his  burden  and  went  to 
the  fields.  "When  he  reached  his  elder  brother  they  set 
to  work  at  their  labour. 

And  after  that,  at  the  time  of  evening,  when  the  elder 
brother  returned  to  his  house,  and  the  younger  brother  was 
following  his  beasts,  bearing  all  the  things  of  the  fields,  and 
guiding  his  beasts  before  him  to  go  to  rest  in  their  stables 


'  The  five  measures  of  grain  represent  368  litres  (647  pints)  in  capacity, 
weighing  about  276  kilograms  (608  lbs.).  The  market  porters  of  France 
carry  an  average  weight  of  200  kilograms,  and  rarely  attempt  as  much  as 
276  kilograms  (Chabas,  Recherches \  sur  les  poids,  mestires  et  monnaies  des 
anciens  Egyptiens,  pp.  9,  11),  Balti  therefore  possessed  unusual  strength, 
which  justified  the  lady's  admiration. 

^  The  text  literally  runs  "  Her  heart  knew  him  in  recognition  of  a 
young  man." 


THE   STORY   OF   THE   TWO   BROTHERS  7 

in  the  village,^  as  the  wife  of  the  elder  brother  was  afraid 
concerning  that  she  had  said,  she  took  some  fat  and  a  rag, 
and  made  herself  appear  as  one  who  had  been  beaten  by 
an  evil-doer,^  in  order  to  say  to  her  husband,  "It  is  thy 
younger  brother  who  has  beaten  me."  When,  therefore,  her 
husband  returned  in  the  evening  according  to  his  daily  habit, 
on  arriving  at  his  house,  he  found  his  wife  lying  down  and 
as  though  mournful  owing  to  violence  ;  she  poured  no  water 
over  his  hands  according  to  her  daily  habit,  she  made  no  light 
before  him,  but  his  house  was  in  darkness  and  she  was  lying 
down  all  soiled.  Her  husband  said  to  her,  "  Who  then  hath 
spoken  with  thee  ? "  She  then  said,  "  None  hath  spoken 
with  me  except  thy  young  brother.  When  he  came  to 
take  the  seed  for  thee,  finding  me  seated  quite  alone,  he 
said  to  me,  '  Come,  that  we  may  lie  together  for  the  space 
of  an  hour ;  put  on  thy  fine  garments.'  He  spake  thus  to 
me  and  I  did  not  listen  to  him.  '  But  am  not  I  thy 
mother  ?  for  thy  elder  brother  is  he  not  to  thee  as  a  father  ?  ' 
Thus  I  spake  to  him.  He  was  afraid,  he  beat  me  that  I  might 
not  make  any  report  to  thee.  If,  therefore,  thou  permittest 
him  to  live,  I  shall  kill  myself,  for  behold  when  he  returns 
this  evening,  as  I  have  complained  of  his  evil  words,  what 
he  will  do  is  evident." 

The  elder  brother  became  like  a  cheetah  of  the  south ' ; 
he  sharpened  his  knife ;  he  took  it  in  his  hand.  The  elder 
brother   placed   himself  behind  the  door  of  his    stable,  in 

'  The  elder  brother,  master  of  the  farm,  returned  straight  home  when 
his  work  was  finished.  The  younger  brother,  mere  farm  servant,  must 
still  carry  up  the  grass  and  take  the  cattle  to  the  stable ;  he  would  there- 
fore walk  more  slowly  and  arrive  at  the  house  long  after  the  other.  The 
wife  had  thus  ample  time  to  tell  the  untrue  story  and  excite  her  husband's 
wrath  against  her  brother-in-law. 

'  She  rubbed  herself  with  fat  to  imitate  the  shining  marks  and  bruises 
caused  by  blows  on  human  flesh. 

'  This  is  the  almost  banal  expression  devoted  to  expressing  anger  on  the 
part  of  a  man  or  of  a  sovereign  :  Ramses  II  or  the  Ethiopian  PaSnekhi 
conduct  themselves  like  a  cheetah  (the  guepard)  of  the  south  neither  more 
nor  less  than  BaJti  or  Anupu. 


8  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

order  to  kill  his  yoanger  brother,  when  he  should  come  in 
the  evening  to  bring  his  beasts  to  the  stable.  And  when 
the  sun  set,  and  the  younger  brother  carried  up  all  the 
plants  of  the  field  according  to  his  daily  habit,  and  he 
came,  the  cow  in  front  at  the  entrance  to  the  stable  said 
to  her  guardian,  "Here  is  thy  elder  brother  who  stands 
before  thee  with  his  knife  to  kill  thee;  escape  from 
him."  When  he  had  heard  what  the  cow  in  front  said,  the 
second  one  said  the  same  as  she  entered ;  he  looked  below 
the  door  of  the  stable,  he  perceived  the  feet  of  his  elder 
brother  who  was  standing  behind  the  door,  his  knife  in  his 
hand,'  he  placed  his  load  on  the  ground,  he  fled  with  all 
his  might,  and  his  elder  brother  started  in  pursuit  with 
his  knife.  The  younger  brother  cried  to  Phra-Harmakhis,' 
saying,  "  Good  Master,  it  is  thou  that  judgest  iniquity 
justly ! "  And  Phra  heard  all  his  lamentations,  and  Phra 
caused  a  large  piece  of  water  to  appear  between  him  and  his 
elder  brother ;  it  was  full  of  crocodiles,  and  one  of  them 
was  on  one  side  and  one  on  the  other,  and  the  elder  brother 
twice  flung  out  his  hand  to  strike  him,  but  he  did  not  kill 
him ;  this  is  what  he  did.  His  younger  brother  called  to 
him  on  the  bank,  saying,  "Eemain  there  until  the  earth 
lightens.  When  the  sun's  disc  rises,  I  will  plead  with  thee 
before  it,  that  I  may  re-establish  the  truth,  for  I  shall 
never    again    be   with   thee,    I    shall    never    again    be    in 

'  The  base  of  the  Egyptian  door  very  rarely  touches  the  sill;  in  the 
greater  number  of  paintings  where  the  door  is  represented  a  considerable 
space  can  be  seen  between  the  door  and  the  ground  level. 

^  The  Egyptians  named  the  sun  Ealya,  Riya,  from  which  we  have  made  Ra, 
and  with  the  masculine  article,  PrSor  FhrS,.  Harmakhuiti  was  Horus,  between 
the  two  horizons,  that  is  to  say  the  sun  in  its  diurnal  course,  journeying 
from  the  morning  horizon  to  the  evening  horizon.  The  two  forms  of  R^ 
and  of  Harmakhuiti,  distinct  in  origin,  had  been  confused  long  before  the 
period  in  which  the  Story  nftlie  Two  Brothers  was  written,  and  the  expres- 
sion PhrS-HarmakhuIti  was  employed  as  a  simple  variant  of  Phr^  or  of 
RS,  in  the  language  of  the  period.  The  Greeks  turned  Harmakhuiti  into 
Harmakhis  ;  Harmakhis  was  personified  in  the  great  Sphinx  of  Gizeh,  near 
the  Pyramids. 


THE   STORY   OF   THE   TWO   BROTHERS  9 

the  places  where   thou   wilt   be ;   I   shall   go   to   the  Vale 
of  the  Acacia."  ^ 

When  the  earth  lightened  and  it  was  a  second  day,  Phra- 
Harmakhis  having  risen,  each  one  perceived  the  other.  The 
youth  addressed  his  elder  brother,  saying  to  him,  "Why 
dost  thou  come  behind  me  to  kill  me  by  craft  without  having 
heard  what  my  mouth  had  to  say  ?  For  me,  I  am  truly 
thy  younger  brother,  but  thou,  thou  art  like  a  father, 
and  thy  wife  is  to  me  as  a  mother,  is  it  not  so  in  truth  ? 
Yet  when  thou  didst  send  me  for  the  grain  thy  wife  said 
to  me,  '  Come,  let  us  pass  an  hour,  lie  with  me,'  and 
lo,  this  hath  been  perverted  to  thee  to  a  different  thing." 
He  made  known  to  him  all  that  had  passed  between  him  and 
the  woman ;  he  swore  by  Phra-Harmakhis,  saying,  "  Thou, 
to  come  behind  me  to  kill  me  by  craft,  thy  dagger  in  thy 
hand  by  treason,  what  infamy ! "  He  took  a  bill-hook  for 
cutting  reeds,  he  severed  his  virile  member,  he  cast  it  into 
the  water,  where  the  electric  catfish  devoured  it,^  he  sank 

'  The  word  I  translate  acacia  has  for  a  long  time  been  translated  cedar. 
Loret  wished  to  render  it  pine,  and  Spiegelberg  has  more  recently  proposed 
cypress  as  its  meaning  {RecliMungen,  pp.  54  et  seq.,  and  die  Bauinschrift 
Amenophis  III,  in  the  Mecueil,  vol.  xx,  p.  52).  The  vale  of  the  acacia, 
of  the  cedar,  the  pine  or  the  cypress  seems  to  correspond  with  the  funerary 
valley  where  Amon  the  god  of  Thebes  went  for  a  visit  every  year  to  render 
homage  to  his  father  and  mother,  who  were  supposed  to  have  been  buried 
there;  Virey  indeed,  generalising  on  the  hypothesis  (£«  Meligion  de 
I'Anoieraie  Egypte,  pp.  194-197),  believed  that  it  was  the  other  world, 
Amentlt,  which  in  fact  communicated  with  Egypt  by  the  Nile.  Lefebure, 
misled  by  the  current  translation  Vale  of  tlie  Cedar,  placed  it  in  Phoenicia, 
the  land  of  cedars  (^(Euvres  diverses,  vol.  i,  p.  163),  which  provided  him 
with  a  new  concordant  detail  between  the  history  of  Baiti  and  the  Grseco- 
Egyptian  legend  of  Osiris.  In  reality  the  Vale  was  situated,  as  we  shall 
see  later  (p.  13),  on  the  banks  of  the  Nile  {iaHmd).  no  doubt  near  the  spot 
where  the  river  descended  from  heaven  on  to  our  world. 

^  According  to  the  legend,  Osiris,  after  having  been  cut  in  pieces  by 
Typhon,  was  thrown  into  the  Nile ;  all  the  fish  respected  the  remains  of 
the  god,  except  the  oxyrrhynchus,  which  devoured  the  virile  member.  The 
scribe  who  wrote  the  Story  of  tlie  Two  Brotliers  substituted  the  name  of 
another  fish  for  that  of  the  oxyrrhynchus,  no  doubt  out  of  respect.  This 
fish,  which  is  represented  several  times  on  the  walls  of  the  tomb  of  Ti, 
was  called  naru.     It  can  be  easily  recognised  by  the  barbels  with  which 


10  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

down,    he   fainted.      The    elder    brother    cursed   his   heart 
exceedingly,  exceedingly,  and  he  remained  there  and  wept 
over  him.     He  leapt,  but  he  could  not  pass  over  to  the  bank 
where  his  younger  brother  was,  because  of  the  crocodiles. 
His  younger  brother  called  to  him,  saying,  "  Thus  whilst 
thou  didst  imagine  an  evil  action,  thou  didst  not  recall  one 
of  the  good  actions  or  even  one  of  the  things  that  I  did 
for  thee.     Ah  !  go  to  thy  house,  and  do  thou  thyself  care  for 
thy  cattle,  for  I  shall  not  live  longer  in  the  place  where  thou 
art — I  go  to  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia.     Yet  here  is  what  thou 
shalt  do  for  me,  when  thou  art  returned  to  thy  business,  for 
know  thou  the  things  that  will  happen  to  me.    I  shall  take  out 
my  heart  by  magic  to  place  it  on  the  top  of  the  flower  of  the 
Acacia;  and  when  the   Acacia  is  cut  down  and  my  heart 
falls  to  the  ground  thou  shalt  come  to  seek  for  it.     When 
thou  shalt  have  passed  seven  years  in  seeking  for  it,  be  not 
disheartened,  but  when  once  thou  hast  found  it  place  it  in 
a  vase  of  fresh  water  ^ ;  without  doubt  I  shall  live  anew,  and 
recompense  the  evU  that  shall  have  been  done  to  me.^    Now, 
thou  wilt  know  that  something  is  happening  to  me  when 
a  pitcher  of  beer  is  put  into  thy  hand  and  it  throws  up 
froth ;    another   of  wine    shall    be    given    to    thee,   and   it 
shall   become   thick.      Do  not  delay,  in  truth,  when    that 
shall   happen  to    thee."     He   departed  to  the  Vale  of  the 
Acacia,  and  his  elder  brother  returned  to  his  house,  his  hand 
on  his  head,   daubed  with  dust.^     When  he  arrived  at  his 

the  periphery  of  the  mouth  is  furnished,  and  the  convex  form  of  its  caudal 
fin.  A  comparison  of  the  ancient  drawings  with  the  plates  of  the  Descrip- 
tion de  VEgypte  (Poissons  du,  Nil,  pi.  xii.  figs  1-4)  proves  it  to  be  the 
Malapterus  eleetrieus  or  electric  catfish  (Description,  vol.  xxiv.  p.  2d9etsea.'). 
'  The  libation  of  fresh  water  is  indispensable  for  the  dead ;  without  it 
they  could  not  revive.  As  late  as  the  Ptolemaic  period  the  hellenised 
Egyptians  stated  in  their  epitaphs  written  in  Greek  that  Osiris  had  "  given 
them  fresh  water  in  the  nether  world." 

^  Litt.    "  I  will  render  reply  to  that  which  is  transgressed." 
"  One  of  the  most  frequent  signs  of  sorrow  in  Egypt,  as  in  the  rest  of  the 
East ;  lumps  of  dust  and  of  mud  are  collected  to  daub  the  face  and  head. 
A   picture   of   a   Theban   tomb,  reproduced  by  Wilkinson  (Manners  and 


THE   STORY   OF.  ..'HE   TWO   BROTHERS  11 

house  he  killed  his  wife,  he  threw  her  to  the  dogs,^  and  he 
continued  to  mourn  for  h's  younger  brother. 

And  many  days  after  that,  the  younger  brother  being  in 
the  Vale  of  the  Acacia  without  any  one  with  him,  employed 
the  day  in  hunting  the  beasts  of  the  desert,  and  he  came 
to  spend  the  night  under  the  acacia,  where  his  heart  was 
placed  on  the  top  of  its  flower.  And  many  days  after  that 
he  constructed  with  his  hand,  in  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia,  an 
ezbeh  filled  with  everything  good,  in  order  to  form  a  house 
for  himself.  As  he  went  out  from  his  ezbeh,  he  met  the 
Neuvaine  of  the  gods  ^  who  were  going  forth  to  rule  the 
affairs  of  the  Entire  Land.*  The  Neuvaine  of  the  gods 
spake  all  together  and  said  to  him,  "  Oh,  Baiti,  bull  of  the 
Neuvaine  of  the  gods,*  art  thou  not  here  alone,  for  having 
left  thy  country  before  the  wife  of  Anupu,  thy  elder 
brother  ?  Lo !  his  wife  is  slain,  and  thou  hast  rendered  to 
him  all  that  has  been  done  of  evil  against  thee."  Their 
heart  suffered  for  him  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  and  Phra 

Customs,  2nd  edition,  vol.  iii.  pi.  Ixviii.),  shows  the  family  and  friends  of 
the  deceased  daubing  themselves  in  this  way  in  presence  of  the  mummy. 

'  The  same  detail  occurs  in  the  Story  of  Satni-Klidmois,  where  Tbfibftt 
causes  the  children  of  the  hero  to  be  thrown  "  down  from  the  window  to 
the  dogs  and  cats,  and  these  ate  their  flesh  "  (cf.  p.  139). 

''  The  cosmic  gods  of  ancient  Egypt  formed  a  theoretic  group  of  nine 
divine  personages,  which  was  called  psit  or  pauitnutiru,  "the  ennead, 
the  neuvaine  of  the  gods,"  or  to  employ  a  vaguer  term  the  "  cycle  of  the 
gods."  This  Ennead,  each  member  of  which  was  able  to  disintegrate 
Into  an  infinite  number  of  secondary  forms,  presided  at  the  creation,  and 
the  duration  of  the  universe,  such  as  it  was  conceived  to  be  by  various 
sacerdotal  schools.  From  other  texts  we  learn  that  the  gods  descended 
at  times  to  earth  in  order  to  walk  about ;  on  the  25th  day  of  Paophi,  for 
instance,  one  was  liable  to  meet  them  under  the  form  of  a  bull  (Cbabas, 
Le  Calendrier  des  Jours  fastes  et  nefastes,  p.  43). 

'  i.e.  of  Egypt :  see  above,  p.  4,  note  3. 

*  The  epithet  "  bull "  is  at  least  strange  when  applied  to  a  eunuch.  It 
must  be  remembered,  however,  that  Baiti  is  a  popular  form  of  the  god 
with  the  double  bull's  head  (cf.  Introduction,  p.  xxiii,  note  2) ;  his 
misadventure,  while  depriving  him  on  earth  of  his  virile  power,  would  not 
prevent  him  as  a  god  from  retaining  his  prolific  faculties.  In  the  same  way 
Osiris  in  one  of  the  variants  of  the  legend,  dead  and  mutilated  as  he  was, 
revived  to  impregnate  Isis  and  become  the  father  of  Horus. 


12  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

Harmakhis  said  to  Khnumu,i  "  Oh,  fashion  a  wife  for  Baiti, 
in  order  that  thou  mayest  not  be  alone."  ^  Khnumu  made 
him  a  companion  to  dwell  with  him  who  was  beautiful  in 
her  members  more  than  any  woman  in  the  Entire  Land, 
for  the  seed  of  all  the  gods  was  in  her.  The  Seven 
Hathors '  came  to  see  her  and  they  said  with  one  voice : 
"  Let  her  die  by  the  sword."  Baiti  desired  her  exceedingly, 
exceedingly :  as  she  dwelt  in  his  house,  while  he  passed 
the  day  hunting  the  beasts  of  the  desert  in  order  to  lay 
them  before  her,  he  said  to  her,  "  Do  not  go  out,  for  fear 
the  river  ■*  should  seize  thee :  thou  knowest  not  how  to 
escape  it,  for  thou  art  merely  a  woman.  As  for  me,  my 
heart  is  placed  at  the  top  of  the  flower  of  the  Acacia,  and 
if  another  should  find  it,  it  would  be  necessary  for  me 
to  fight  him."  He  accordingly  revealed  to  her  all  that 
concerned  his  heart.^ 

And  many  days  after  that,  Baiti  having  gone  hunting 
according  to  his  habit  of  every  day,  as  the  girl  had  gone 
out  to  walk  under  the  acacia  which  was  near  her  house,  lo  ! 

'  The  name  Khnumu  signifies  Hie  modeller,  and  it  was  said  that  the 
god  morf«ite(?  the  egg  or  the  substance  of  the  world  on  a  potter's  wheel. 
Khnumu,  who  was  pre-eminently  a  local  god  of  Elephantine  and  of  the 
first  Cataract,  was  notwithstanding,  a  cosmic  deity,  and  it  is  easy  to  under- 
stand why  the  divine  Ennead  should  choose  him  to  fashion  a  wife  for 
Baiti ;  he  kneaded  her,  and  modelled  her  of  the  dust  of  the  ground.  We 
shall  see  later  in  the  Story  of  Khufui  that  he  assisted  at  births,  and  the 
well-known  pictures  of  the  temples  of  Deir-el-Baharl  and  Luxor  show  that 
after  the  impregnation,  it  was  he  who  formed  the  body  and  the  double 
of  the  infant  on  his  potter's  wheel ;  he  modelled  it  in  the  body  of  the 
mother,  and  also  gave  it  the  final  form  after  birth. 

^  This  phrase  includes  a  sudden  change  of  person.  In  the  first  part 
Phra  says  to  Khnumu,  "  Fashion  a,  wife  for  Baiti "  ;  in  the  second  he 
says  to  Baiti,  "  in  order  that  thou  shalt  not  be  alone." 

'  The  Seven  Hathors  here  play  the  same  role  as  the  fairy  godmothers  of 
our  fairy  tales.  They  appear  also  at  the  beginning  of  the  story  of  the 
Doomed  Prince,  as  will  be  seen  later  (p.  186). 

*  There  seems  here  an  allusion  to  the  Bride  of  the  Nile  and  her  immersion 
in  the  river.  The  ancient  Egyptians  called  the  Nile  the  sea  (iaflmS),  like  the 
modern  Egyptians  (bahr)  ;  the  expression  occurs  again  in  the  first  story  of 
Satni-Khdmots,  p.  124,  note  3  of  the  present  volume. 

'  Literally  "  he  opened  to  her  his  heart  in  all  its  form." 


THE  STORY  OF  THE  TWO  BROTHERS     13 

she  perceived  the  river  which  drew  its  waves  towards  her, 
she  fled  before  it,  she  entered  into  her  house.  The  river 
cried  to  the  Acacia,  saying,  "Let  me  take  possession 
of  her,"  and  the  Acacia  delivered  up  a  tress  of  her  hair. 
The  river  carried  it  into  Egypt  and  deposited  it  at  the 
streamlet  of  the  laundrymen  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.^  The  scent 
of  the  ringlet  penetrated  the  linen  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  and 
they  blamed  the  laundrymen  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  saying, 
"  Scent  of  pomade  in  the  linen  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s. !  "  They 
scolded  them  every  day,  so  much  that  they  did  not  know 
what  they  were  doing,  and  the  chief  of  the  washermen  of 
Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  came  to  the  streamlet,  for  his  heart  was 
annoyed  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  with  the  scoldings  he 
received  every  day.  He  stopped,  he  stayed  at  the  rivulet 
just  opposite  the  lock  of  hair  which  was  in  the  water;  he 
caused  some  one  to  go  down,  who  brought  it  to  him,  finding 
that  it  smelt  sweet,  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  and  he  carried 
it  to  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.  They  fetched  the  scribes,  sorcerers 
of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.  They  said  to  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  "  This 
lock  of  hair  belongs  to  a  daughter  of  Phra-Harmakhis  who 
has  in  her  the  essence  of  all  the  gods.^  Oh  thou  that 
receivest  homage  from  foreign  lands,  cause  messengers  to  go 

'  Pharaoh  is  a  form  which  was  first  Hebraised,  then  Hellenised,  of  the 
title  Para-^ui,  "  the  double  great  house,"  used  to  designate  all  the  kings. 
That  the  sovereign  was  tlie  double  great  house  and  not  merely  t^ie  great 
house,  is  because  Egypt  was  divided  from  time  immemorial  into  two 
countries  (cf.  p.  4,  note  1) ;  thus  the  king  was  a  double  king,  king  of 
Egypt  of  the  North,  and  of  Egypt  of  the  South,  aud  his  house  was  a  double 
house  to  correspond  with  each  of  the  two  personages  of  which  he  was 
composed.  L.  h.  s.  is  an  abbreviation  of  the  formula,  Life,  health, 
strength,  which  always  follows  the  name  of  a  king  or  a  royal  title. 

^  According  to  the  beliefs  of  the  Egyptians,  as  of  many  other  nations, 
all  parts  of  the  body  were  so  closely  united  by  mutual  sympathy,  that 
they  still  exercised  their  influence  one  on  another  even  when  separated 
and  removed  to  great  distances.  The  sorcerer  who  possessed  a  limb, 
some  morsels  of  flesh,  naU  clippings,  and  especially  some  hair,  could 
impose  his  will  on  the  man  from  whom  they  came.  We  need  not,  there- 
fore, be  surprised  that  the  Nile  asked  for  a  lock  of  hair  belonging  to  the 
Daughter  of  the  Gods,  nor  that  the  magicians,  on  examining  the  lock, 
recognised  immediately  the  nature  of  the  person  to  whom  it  belonged. 


U  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

to  all  the  foreign  lands  to  find  this  damsel ;  and  the  messenger 
who  shall  go  to  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia,  cause  that  plenty 
of  men  go  with  him  to  bring  her  back."  Behold  His 
Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  said,  "  It  is  perfect,  perfect  that  which  ye 
have  said,"  and  they  sent  away  the  messengers.  And  many 
days  after  that,  the  men  who  had  gone  to  the  foreign  land 
came  to  report  to  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  but  those  who  had 
gone  to  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia  did  not  come  :  Baiti,  having 
killed  them,  left  one  of  them  only  to  report  to  His  Majesty, 
1.  h.  s.  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  caused  a  number  of  men  and 
archers,  and  some  charioteers,  to  go  to  fetch  the  damsel ; 
also  a  woman  was  with  them  who  gave  into  her  hand ' 
all  the  fine  trinkets  of  a  woman.  This  woman  came  to 
Egypt  with  her  and  they  rejoiced  over  her  in  the  Entire 
Land.  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  loved  her  exceedingly,  exceed- 
ingly, so  well  that  One  ^  proclaimed  her  as  Principal 
Favourite.  One  spake  to  her  to  cause  her  to  tell  about 
her  husband,  and  she  said  to  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  "  Let 
them  cut  down  the  Acacia  and  he  will  be  destroyed."  One 
sent  men  and  archers  to  cut  down  the  Acacia ;  they  cut 
down  the  flower  on  which  was  the  heart  of  Baiti,  and  in 
that  evil  hour  he  fell  dead. 

And  when  the  earth  lightened,  and  it  was  a  second  day, 
after  the  Acacia  had  been  cut  down,  when  Anupu,  the  elder 
brother  of  Baiti,  had  entered  his  house  and  was  seated, 
having  washed  his  hands,  a  jug  of  beer  was  given  him,  and 
it  spurted  out  froth.  Another  of  wine  was  given  him,  and 
it  became   thick  with  scum.     He  seized  his  staff  and   his 

'  Piehl  {ZeUsclirift,  188(5,  pp.  80-81)  preferred  to  translate  this,  "  A 
woman  was  with  them,  she  gave  her  all  the  sweet  cakes  of  a  woman." 
Cf.  Max  Miiller,  Ueber  einige  Sieroglyphenzeiclien  in  the  Recjieil  de 
Travaux,  vol.  ix,  p.  170,  and  Piehl's  reply,  Lettre  a  M.  le  Redacteur  du 
Recueil,  1888,  pp.  1-3. 

^  One,  which  corresponds  to  the  form  of  the  indefinite  pronoun  emtutu, 
followed  by  tlie  determinative  of  divinity,  appears  to  refer  frequently  to 
the  Pharaoh.  "  One  proclaimed  her  "  wonld  therefore  be  the  equivalent  of 
"  Pharaoh  proclaimed  her.'' 


THE  STORY  OF  THE  TWO  BROTHERS     16 

sandals,  and  also  his  garments  with  his  weapons,  he  started 
to  walk  to  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia;  he  entered  the  villa  of 
his   younger    brother,    and  he  found   his   younger    brother 
laid  dead  on  his  bed.^      He  wept  when  he  perceived   his 
younger  brother  lying  down  as  though  dead;   he  went  to 
seek   the   heart  of  his  younger  brother  under  the  Acacia, 
under   the  shelter  of   which  his  younger  brother  slept  at 
night ;  he  spent  three  years  in  the  search  without  finding 
it.     And  he  entered  upon  the  fourth  year,  when,  his  heart 
desiring  to  come  to  Egypt,  he  said,  "  I  will  go  to-morrow  "  ; 
thus  said  he  in  his  heart.     And  when  the  earth  lightened 
and  it  was  a  second  day,  he  went  under  the  Acacia,  he 
passed  the  day  searching  ;  when  he  returned  in  the  evening 
and  looked  around  him  to  search  afresh,  he  found  a  seed,  he 
returned  with  it,  and  lo  !  it  was  the  heart  of  his  younger 
brother.     He  brought  a  cup  of  fresh  water,  he  threw  it  into 
it ;  he  seated  himself  according  to  his  habit  of  every  day. 
And  when  it  became  night,  the  heart  having  absorbed  the 
water,   Baiti  trembled   in  all  his  members,   and   he  gazed 
fixedly   at   his   elder  brother,  whilst  his  heart  was  in  the 
cup.^     Anupu,   the  elder  brother,  seized  the  cup  of   fresh 
water  in  which  was  the  heart  of  his  younger  brother,  who 
drank  and  his  heart  was  in  place,  and  he  became  as  he  was 
before.     Each  of  them  embraced  the  other,  each  spake  with 
his  companion,  and  then  Baiti  said  to   his    elder  brother, 
"  Lo  !    I  am  about  to  become  a  great  bull  which  will  have  aU 
the  right  hairs,  and  of  which  the  nature  will  not  be  known.' 

'  This  was  the  low  rectangular  bed,  the  angareb  of  the  Berberines  of 
to-day,  the  frame  of  which  usually  stands  on  four  lions'  feet. 

'  Cf.  Sethe's  note,  z«  d^'OrWney,  14.  2-3,  in  Zeitsohrift,  vol.  xxix, 
pp.  57-59. 

^  Our  hero,  being  a  form  of  the  god  with  the  double  bull's  head  (cf. 
iTdroduetioih,  pp.  xxi-xxiii,  note  2),  changes  easily  into  a  bull,  and  also 
into  Apis,  the  buU^ar  excellence.  Now  Apis  was  required  to  have  a  certain 
number  of  mystic  marks  on  his  body,  formed  of  hairs  of  various  colours. 
He  was  black,  with  a  triangular  white  tuft  on  his  forehead,  the  figure  of  a 
vulture  or  of  an  eagle  with  outspread  wings  on  his  back,  and  the  image  of 


16  STORIES   OF  ANCEENT  EGYPT 

Seat  thyself  on  my  back  when  the  sun  arises,  and  when 
we  are  at  the  place  where  my  wife  is  I  will  give  some 
answers.^  Thou  therefore  conduct  me  to  the  place  where 
One  is,  and  all  good  shall  be  done  to  thee,  thou  wilt  be 
laden  with  silver  and  gold  for  having  led  me  to  Pharaoh, 
1.  h.  s.,  for  I  shall  be  a  great  miracle,  and  men  will  rejoice 
because  of  me  in  the  Entire  Land,  and  then  thou  shalt 
go  thence  into  thy  city."  And  when  the  earth  lightened 
and  a  second  day  was,  Baiti  changed  into  the  form  of  which 
he  had  spoken  to  his  elder  brother.  Anupu,  his  elder 
brother,  seated  himself  on  his  back  at  daybreak,  and  he 
arrived  at  the  place  where  One  was.^  It  was  made  known 
to  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  he  looked  at  him,  he  became  joyful 
exceedingly,  exceedingly,  he  made  him  a  great  entertain- 
ment, saying,  "  It  is  a  great  miracle  that  has  happened," 
and  they  rejoiced  over  him  in  the  Entire  Land.'  They 
loaded  his  elder  brother  with  silver  and  gold,  and  he  settled 
himself  in  his  city.  They  gave  numerous  attendants  and 
numerous  gifts  to  the  bull,  for  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  loved  him 


a  scarab  on  his  tongue ;  the  hairs  of  his  tail  were  double.  "  The  scarab,  the 
vulture,  and  all  the  other  marks  which  were  connected  with  the  presence, 
and  relative  position  of  the  tuft  of  hair  over  the  forehead,  did  not  exist  in 
reaUty.  No  doubt  the  priests,  initiated  into  the  mysteries  of  Apis,  were 
alone  acquainted  with  them,  and  knew  how  to  recognise  in  the  divine 
animal  the  indispensable  symbols,  very  much  as  astronomers  recognised 
the  outlines  of  a  dragon,  a  lion,  or  a  bear  in  certain  arrangements  of  the 
stars."  (Mariette,  Renseignements  sur  les  Apis,  in  the  Bulletin  archeologique 
de  V Athe.ihaeum  franqais,  1855,  p.  54.) 

'  Cf .  the  same  expression,  p.  10,  note  2. 

^  This  is  a  survival  of  the  very  ancient  tradition,  according  to  which  the 
dead  weie  conveyed  to  the  domain  and  palace  of  Osiris  by  a  sacred  bull  or 
by  the  cow  Hathor.  On  Theban  coflSns  of  the  XXIst  and  following  dynasties 
there  may  often  be  seen,  on  the  yellow  background,  a  scene  representing 
the  occupant  in  his  living  form  riding  astride  the  animal,  or  lying  on  its 
back  in  the  form  of  a  mummy. 

'  During  the  time  that  elapsed  between  the  death  of  an  Apis  and  the 
discovery  of  a  new  Apis,  the  whole  of  Egypt  was  in  mourning;  the 
installation  of  the  new  Apis  put  an  end  to  the  mourning,  and  was  cele- 
brated with  great  festivities.  Thus  the  romance  here  represents  the  actual 
customs  of  real  life. 


THE  STORY  OF  THE  TWO  BROTHERS     17 

exceedingly,  exceedingly,  more  than  all  men  in  the  Entire 
Land. 

And  many  days  after  that  the  bull  entered  the  harem,i 
and  he  stopped  at  the  place  where  the  favourite  was,  and 
he  spake  to  her,  saying,  "Behold,  I  am  alive  nevertheless." 
She  said  to  him,  «  Who  art  thou  then  ?  "  He  said  to  her, 
"  I  am  Baiti.  Thou  knowest  well  when  thou  didst  cause  the 
Acacia  to  be  hewn  down  by  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  that  it  would 
do  me  such  an  injury  that  I  could  live  no  longer ;  but  be- 
hold I  live  nevertheless.  I  am  a  bull."  The  favourite  was 
afeared  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  on  account  of  that  which 
was  spoken  to  her  by  her  husband.  He  went  out  of  the 
harem,  and  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  having  come  to  spend  a 
happy  day  with  her,  she  was  at  the  table  of  His  Majesty, 
and  One  was  kind  to  her  exceedingly,  exceedingly.  She 
said  to  His  Majesty,  "  Ssvear  to  me  by  Grod  saying,  '  that 
which  thou  shalt  say  to  me  I  will  listen  to  it  for  thee.' " 
He  listened  to  all  that  she  said.  "  Let  there  be  given  me 
the  liver  of  that  bull  to  eat,  for  he  will  do  nothing  worth 
doing."  Thus  she  spake  to  him.  One  was  grieved  with 
that  she  said  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  and  the  heart  of 
Pharaoh  was  sick  exceedingly,  exceedingly.  And  when  the 
earth  lightened  and  a  second  day  came,  a  great  feast  of 
offerings  in  honour  of  the  bull  was  proclaimed,  and  one  of 
the  chief  butchers  of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  was  sent  to  cut 
the  throat  of  the  bull.  Then  after  his  throat  was  cut, 
while  he  was  on  the  shoulders  of  the  men  (who  were 
carrying  him),  he  twitched  his  neck,  and  let  fall  two  drops 
of  blood  near  the  double  flight  of  steps  of  His  Majesty, 
1.  h.  s.     One  of  them  was  on  one  side  of  the  great  door- 

'  The  sacred  animals  had  free  access  to  all  parts  of  the  temple  where 
they  dwelt.  We  know  of  the  freedom  enjoyed  by  the  ram  of  Mendes,  and 
the  strange  freaks  in  which  he  occasionally  indulged  (^Herodotus  II,  46 ; 
of.  Wiedemann,  Herodots  Zweites  Biwh,  pp.  216-218).  Baiti,  in  his  character 
of  sacred  bull,  could  penetrate  without  hindrance  into  the  parts  of  the 
palace  closed  to  the  public,  and  into  the  harem  itself. 


18  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

way  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  the  other  on  the  other  side,  and 
they  sprang  up  into  two  great  persea  trees,'  each  of  them 
of  great  beauty.  They  went  to  tell  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s., 
"Two  great  persea  trees  have  grown  as  a  great  miracle 
for  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  during  the  night,  close  to  the 
great  doorway  of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,"  and  they  rejoiced 
concerning  them  in  the  Entire  Land,  and  One  made 
offerings  to  them.^ 

And  many  days  after  that  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  adorned 
himself  with  the  diadem  of  lapis-lazuli,  his  neck  hung 
with  garlands  of  all  manner  of  flowers,  he  mounted  his 
chariot  of  vermilion,  he  went  forth  from  the  royal  palace, 
1.  h.  s.,  in  order  to  see  the  persea  trees.  The  favourite 
went  in  a  chariot  with  two  horses,  in  the  suite  of  Pharaoh, 
1.  h.  s.  For  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  seated  himself  under  one 
of  the  persea  trees,'  the  favourite  seated  herself  under  the 
other  persea  tree.  When  she  was  seated  the  persea  spake 
to  his  wife,  "  Oh  perfidious  one !  I  am  Baiti  and  I  live, 
ill-treated  by  thee.  Thou  knewest  well  that  to  have  the 
Acacia  tree  cut  down  by  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  was  to  do  me 
an  injury;  I  became  a  bull  and  thou  hast  caused  me  to 
be  killed."     And  many  days  after  that,  when  the  favourite 

'  The  persea,  according  to  Schweinfurth  the  Mimusops  ScMmperi,  was 
consecrated  to  Osiris.  There  was  a  persea  tree  on  each  side  of  the 
entrance  to  the  temple  of  Deir  el  Baharl,  and  Naville  has  found  the 
dried-up  trunks  of  trees  at  places  where  Wilkinson  marked  on  his  plan 
the  bases  of  obelisks ;  Spiegelberg  has  very  ingeniously  connected  the 
fact  with  this  passage  in  our  romance.  (Naville,  Un  dernier  mot  sur  la. 
succession  de  Thoutmes,  in  Zeitsehrift,  vol.  xxxvii,  pp.  48-52). 

^  This  is  a  result  of  the  worship  accorded  to  trees  by  the  people 
(Maspero,  Histoire  Ancienne,  vol.  i,  p.  121 ;  cf.  V.  Scheil,  Cinq^  tombeaux 
tkebains,  in  the  Menwires  de  la  Mission  frangaise,  vol.  iv,  pp.  578-579  and 
pi.  iv),  of  which  many  traces  exist  at  the  present  day  in  Mussulman 
Egypt  (Maspero,  Melanges  de  Mythologie,  vol.  ii,  pp.  224-227). 

'  The  Egyptian  scribe  has  here  missed  an  entire  line  :  "  His  Majesty 
seated  himself  under  one  of  the  perseas,  t?ie  favourite  seated  luirself  under 
tlie  other  persea.  IVTien  sTie  was  seated,  the  persea  s-pake  to  his  wife."  The 
scribe  actually  made  an  omission.  In  the  original  he  had  two  consecutive 
lines  ending  in  the  word  persea,  and  he  omitted  the  second. 


THE   STORY   OF   THE   TWO   BROTHERS  19 

was  at  the  table  of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  and  One  was 
favourable  to  her,  she  said  to  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  "  Grant 
me  an  oath  by  God  saying,  '  That  which  the  favourite 
shall  say  to  me,  I  will  listen  to  it  for  her.  Speak  ! ' "  He 
listened  to  all  that  she  spake.  She  said,  "  Cause  the  two 
per  seas  to  be  hewn  down  and  made  into  fine  coffers." ' 
One  listened  to  all  that  she  said.  And  many  days  after 
that  His  Majesty,  1,  h.  s.,  sent  skilful  carpenters,  they  cut 
down  the  perseas  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  and  standing  there, 
seeing  it  done,  was  the  royal  spouse,  the  favourite.  A 
chip  flew  out,  entered  the  mouth  of  the  favourite  and 
she  perceived  that  she  had  conceived.^  The  coffers  were 
made  and  One  did  with  them  all  that  she  wished. 

And  many  days  after  that,  she  brought  a  male  child  into 
the  world,  and  they  went  to  tell  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  "  A 
man  child  is  born  to  thee."  They  brought  him,  they  gave 
him  wet-nurses  and  under  nurses,^  they  rejoiced  concerning 
him  in  the  Entire  Land.  They  began  to  make  a  feast 
day,  they  began  to  be  in  his  name.*  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s., 
loved  him  exceedingly,  exceedingly,  forthwith,  and  he  was 
proclaimed  royal  son  of  Kaushu,^  and  many  days  after  that 

'  Cf.  Chabas,  (Euvres  diverses,  vol.  v,  p.  434,  and  K.  Sethe,  Zu  d'OrHney, 
18.  1,  in  Zeitsekrift,  1907,  pp.  134-135. 

^  This  is  an  allusion  to  a  mythological  fact :  every  evening  the  sun 
entered  the  mouth  of  the  goddess  Nult,  who  thereby  conceived  and  the 
next  morning  brought  into  the  world  a  new  sun  (Maspero,  Etudes  de 
Mythologie  et  d'Archeologie  egyptiennes,  vol.  ii,  pp.  25-26). 

"  This  oflBce  of  "under  nurse,"  or  "cradle  rocker,"  was  at  times  filled 
by  men  :  several  high  functionaries  of  the  XVIIlth  dynasty  were  invested 
with  it.  The  word  khnumu,  by  which  it  is  designated,  signifies  properly 
to  sleep,  to  send  to  sleep  ;  the  lihnumu,  therefore,  is  properly  the  person 
who  puts  the  infant  to  sleep,  the  mon&it  is  one  who  gives  him  the  breast. 

'  This  obscure  phrase  may  be  interpreted  in  various  ways.  It  signifies 
either  that  the  custom  was  then  arising  of  giving  the  name  of  the  youthful 
prince  to  children  born  after  him,  or,  as  Leffebure  suggests  {Vimportanae 
du  nom,  in  Sphinx,  vol.  i,  p.  97),  that  the  prince  having  received  a  name, 
began  to  enter  into  full  possession  of  his  personality ;  the  human  person 
was  in  fact  not  complete  until  after  receiving  a  name. 

'  One  of  the  titles  of  the  princes  of  the  royal  family.  The  royal  son 
of  Kaushu,  to  speak  more  accurately,  was  governor  of  the  land  of  Katishd, 


20  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  made  him  hereditary  prince  of  the 
Entire  Land.  And  many  days  after  that,  when  he  had 
been  many  years  hereditary  prince  of  the  Entire  Land, 
His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  took  flight  to  the  Sky.^  One  said, 
"  Let  the  great  officials  of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  be  brought, 
that  I  may  cause  them  to  know  all  that  has  happened 
with  regard  to  me."  They  brought  his  wife  to  him,  he 
judged  her  before  them  and  they  ratified  his  judgnient. 
They  brought  his  elder  brother  to  him  and  he  made  him 
hereditary  prince  of  his  Entire  Land.  He  was  twenty 
years  king  of  Egypt,  then  he  passed  from  life  and  his 
elder  brother  was  in  his  place  on  the  day  of  the  funeral. — 
This  book  is  finished  in  peace,  for  the  double  of  the  scribe 
treasurer  Qagabu,  of  the  treasure  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  of 
the  scribe  Haraui,  of  the  scribe  Maiaemapit ;  the  scribe 
Ennana,  the  owner  of  this  book  has  made  it.  Whoever 
speaks  against  this  book,  may  Thoth  challenge  him  to 
single  combat.^ 

that  is  to  say  of  Ethiopia.  As  u,  matter  of  fact,  the  title  may  not  have 
been  entirely  honorific ;  the  young  prince,  himself  governed,  and  thus 
served  the  apprenticeship  to  his  royal  position,  in  the  regions  of  the 
Upper  Nile. 

'  One  of  the  ordinary  euphemisms  of  the  Egyptian  oiEcial  style,  used 
to  denote  the  king's  death.  An  equivalent  occurs  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Memoirs  of  SinwMt ;  cf.  p.  75  of  the  present  volume. 

^  This  formula  appears  to  have  been  in  current  use,  for  it  is  found  drawn, 
as  a  writing  exercise,  by  a  scribe  who  was  getting  his  hand  into  practice, 
on  the  verso  of  the  Sallier  Papyrus  iv,  pi.  21 ;  "  Done  by  the  scribe 
Am3,nfia,  the  master  of  this  teaching.  Whosoever  shall  speak  against  this 
teaching  of  the  scribe  AmanuEl,  may  Thoth  slay  him  in  single  combat." 
The  Master  of  the  book,  or  of  the  teaoMng,  was  the  person  who  had  the 
exclusive  right  to  its  possession,  whether  he  was  the  author,  or  merely 
the  editor  or  the  appointed  reciter.  The  literal  translation  of  the  threat 
addressed  to  any  one,  whether  reader  or  auditor,  who  should  criticise  it, 
runs  thus  :  "  may  Thoth  be  made  to  him  companion  of  combat."  This 
expression  is  comprehensible  when  one  finds  scenes  at  Sakkara  or  Beni 
Hasan  representing  the  gymnastic  exercises  executed  by  soldiers ;  each 
of  them  is  matched— made  companion — with  another,  like  the  wrestlers 
of  Greece  or  the  sladiators  of  Eome. 


iA.:i^''t'''- 


THE  KING   KHUFUi  AND  THE  MAGICIANS       ^ 

(IVIIlTH  DYNASTY) 

The  papyrus  that  has  preserved  this  story  was  given  to  Lepsius, 
over  fifty  years  ago,  by  an  English  lady,  Miss  Westcar,  who  had 
brought  it  from  Egypt.  Acquired  by  the  Berlin  Museum  in  1886, 
it  was  first  made  known  by  a  summary  analysis  of  it  published 
by  A.  Erman,  Ein  netter  Papyrus  des  Berliner  Museums,  in  the 
Nationcd-Zeitung  of  Berlin  (May  14,  1886),  and  has  been  repro- 
duced by  A.  Erman,  JEgypten  und  Mgyptisches  Lehen  im  Altertum, 
8vo,  Tubingen,  1885-7,  pp.  498-502  ;  Ed.  Meyer,  Qeschichte  des  alien 
^gyptens,  8vo,  Berlin,  1887,  pp.  129-131. 

The  translation  given  by  me  in  the  second  edition  of  these  tales 
was  not  so  much  a  literal  version  as  an  adaptation,  founded  partly 
on  a  German  translation,  partly  on  a  transcription  in  hieroglyphic 
characters  communicated  to  me  by  Erman.  Since  then  an  English 
paraphrase  has  been  inserted  by  W.  M.  Flinders  Petrie  in  his 
Egyptian  Tales,  1895,  London,  12mo,  vol.  i,  pp.  97-142,  and  the  text 
itself  has  been  published  in  facsimile  and  in  a  hieroglyph  transcrip- 
tion, and  also  translated  into  German  by  A.  Erman,  die  Mdrchen 
des  Papyrus  Westcar  (forming  vols,  v-vi  of  the  Mittheilungen  aus 
den  Orientalischen  Sammlungen),  1890,  Berlin,  4to,  who  has  since 
reproduced  his  translation  with  various  corrections  in  his  pam- 
phlet, Aus  den  Papyrus  der  Koniglichen  Museen,  1899,  Berlin,  8vo, 
pp.  30-42,  and  has  introduced  several  passages  of  his  transcription 
into  hieroglyphs  in  his  jEgyptische  Chrestomathie,  1904,  Berlin, 
12mo,  pp.  20-27. 

Finally  a  fresh  German  translation  has  been  made  by  A  Wiede- 
mann, Altaegyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  Leipzig,  1906,  small  8vo, 
pp.  1-24. 

The  tale  would  probably  have  been  one  of  the  longest  known 
to  us,  if  it  had  come  down  to  us  complete  ;  unfortunately,  however, 
the  beginning  has  disappeared.  It  opened  with  several  stories  of 
marvels  related  one  after  another  to  their  father  by  the  sons  of 
King  Cheops.  The  first  one  of  these  that  is  found  in  our  manu- 
script is  almost  entirely  destroyed ;  only  the  final  formula  exists 
7  21 


22  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

to  show  that  the  action  occurred  in  the  time  of  Pharaoh  Zasiri, 
probably  that  Zasiri  whom  our  lists  of  royal  names  place  in  the 
Ilird  dynasty.  The  pages  that  follow  contain  the  account  of  a 
marvel  performed  by  the  sorcerer  Ubaii-anir,  under  the  reign  of 
Nabka  of  the  Ilird  dynasty.  From  the  moment  when  Prince 
Baiufriya  opens  his  mouth,  the  story  proceeds  ^vithout  any  serious 
interruption  to  the  end  of  the  manuscript.  It  ends  in  the  middle 
of  a  phrase,  and  we  cannot  conjecture  with  any  certainty  what  is 
required  to  render  it  complete.  The  Egyptian  romances  have  a 
disconcerting  habit  of  breaking  off  abruptly  when  one  least  expects  it, 
and  of  condensing  into  a  few  lines  facts  that  we  should  consider 
it  necessary  to  set  out  at  length.  It  is  possible  that  one  or  two 
more  pages  would  have  been  enough  to  provide  us  with  the  sequel, 
or  perhaps  it  required  eight  or  ten  more  pages,  and  included 
incidents  of  which  we  have  no  suspicion. 

It  may  be  asked  whether  that  portion  of  the  romance  that  relates 
to  the  birth  of  the  first  three  kings  of  the  Vth  dynasty  rests  on 
an  historical  basis.  It  is  certain  that  a  new  family  began  to  reign 
with  Usirkaf :  the  Turin  papyrus  places  a  rubric  before  this  king 
and  thus  separates  him  from  the  Pharaohs  that  preceded  him.  The 
monuments  do  not  appear  to  admit  of  any  interregnum  between 
Shopsiskaf  and  Usirkaf,  which  inclines  us  to  believe  that  the  change 
of  dynasty  was  effected  without  disturbance.  If  one  were  to  believe 
the  legend  by  which  Usirkaf  was  the  son  of  R&  and  of  a  priestess, 
he  was  not  of  royal  blood,  and  had  no  claim  of  kinship  with 
the  princes  whom  he  succeeded.  The  parallel  of  the  Theban 
theogamies,  as  we  know  them  in  the  history  of  Queen  Hatshopsultu, 
Amenfithes  III,  and  Cleopatra,  may  still  leave  some  doubt  as  to 
whether  they  were  not  connected  with  the  great  Pharaonic  line 
through  some  ancestor.  The  idea  that  the  three  monarchs  were  born 
at  the  same  time  seems  to  have  been  fairly  widespread  in  Egypt, 
for  a  text  of  the  Ptolemaic  period  (Brugsch,  Diet.  Hiir-,  vol.  vii, 
p.  1093),  speaking  of  the  city  of  Pa-Sahuriya  founded  by  one  of 
them,  asserts  that  it  was  also  called  the  City  of  the  Triplets  (Piehl, 
Qtielques  passages  du  Papyrus  Westcar,  in  Sphinx,  vol.  i,  pp.  71-80) ; 
this  nevertheless  does  not  prove  that  we  should  ascribe  an  historic 
value  to  the  statement.  In  fact,  without  further  warrant  it  is  safest 
to  regard  the  story  as  purely  imaginary. 

Erman  has  shown  that  the  writing  of  the  Westcar  papyrus  closely 
resembles  that  of  the  Ebers  papyrus  ;  we  may  therefore  ascribe  the 
production  of  the  manuscript  at  the  earliest  to  the  later  reigns  of 
the  Hyks6s  domination,  or  at  the  latest  to  the  earlier  reigns  of  the 
XVIIIth  dynasty.  It  is,  however,  probable  that  the  redaction  is 
far  more  ancient  than  the  execution ;  from  the  peculiarities  of  style 
Erman  is  of  opinion  that  it  dates  back  perhaps  to  the  Xllth  dynasty. 
The  story  of  Cheops  and  the  magicians  would  then  belong  to  very 
much  the  same  time  as  the  Memoirs  of  Sinvhit  and  the  La/menta- 


THE   KING   KHUFUI   AND  THE  MAGICIANS        23 

tions  of  the   Fellah ;  this  would   be  a    specimen  of  the  popular 
romance  of  the  period. 

The  commencement  of  the  tale  and  its  general  setting  may  be  re- 
stored with  very  tolerable  certainty  from  the  preamble  of  Papyrus 
No.  1  of  St.  Petersburg.  "  It  happened  at  the  time  when  Sanaf rul 
was  beneficent  king  over  this  Entire  Land.  One  day  when  the  privy 
councillors  of  the  palace  who  had  entered  into  the  house  of  Pharaoh, 
1.  h.  s.,  to  consult  with  him,  had  already  retired  after  having 
consulted  with  him  after  their  custom  of  every  day.  His  Majesty 
said  to  the  Chancellor  who  was  near  him,  'Run,  bring  to  me  the 
privy  councillors  of  the  palace  who  have  gone  out  to  depart,  so  that 
we  may  consult  afresh,  without  delay."  The  councillors  come 
back,  and  the  king  confesses  to  them  that  he  had  called  them  back 
to  ask  them  whether  they  did  not  know  a  man  who  could  amuse 
him  by  telling  him  stories:  upon  which,  they  recommend  to  him 
a  priest  of  BastJt  of  the  name  of  Neferh6." '  It  is  very  probable 
that  Cheops  assembled  his  sons  one  day  when  he  was  depressed 
and  dull,  and  asked  them  whether  they  knew  of  any  marvels  accom- 
plished by  the  magicians  either  in  the  past  or  at  the  time  then 
present.  The  first  story  is  lost,  but  the  part  of  the  manuscript 
that  is  still  preserved  contains  remains  of  the  formula  by  which 
the  amazed  Pharaoh  expressed  his  satisfaction. 

His  Majesty  the  King  of  the  two  Egypts  Khufui,  true 
of  voice,  said,  "Let  them  present  to  His  Majesty  the 
King  Zasiri,  true  of  voice,  an  offering  of  a  thousand  loaves, 
a  hundred  jugs  of  beer,  an  ox,  two  bowls  of  incense,  and 
let  a  flat  cake,  a  quart  of  beer,  a  ration  of  meat,  a  bowl 
of  incense  be  given  for  the  chief  lector  .  .  .,  for  I  have  seen 
the  proof  of  his  learning."  And  that  was  done  which  His 
Majesty  commanded.^ 

Then,  the  royal  son  Khafriya  rose  to  speak,  and  he  said : 
"  I  am  about  to  make  known  to  Thy  Majesty  a  marvel  that 
happened  in  the  time  of  thy  father  King  Nabka,^  true  of 

'  Gol^nischefE,  Papyrus  No.  1  Ae  Saint-Petershowrg ,  in  Zeitsclirift,  1876, 
pp.  109-110. 

'  This  is  the  formula  that  ends  the  first  story  ;  the  name  of  the  magician 
is  completely  destroyed  ;  Imhotep,  son  of  Hapul,  was  probably  the  missing 
chief  lector. 

'  King  Nabka  was  not  the  actual  father  of  Khufui,  but  as  he  belonged 
to  an  earlier  dynasty,  and  as  all  the  Pharaohs  were  supposed  to  consist 
of  one  single  family,  the  man  teUing  the  story,  in  speaking  of  one  of 
them,  calls  him  the  father  of  Khufui,  the  reigning  sovereign. 


24  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

voice,  on  a  time  when  he  resorted  to  the  temple  of  Ptah, 
lord  of  Ankhutaui."  ^ 

Thus,  a  day  when  His  Majesty  had  gone  to  the  temple 
of  Ptah,  lord  of  Ankhutaui,  and  when  His  Majesty  paid  a 
visit  to  the  house  of  the  scribe,  chief  lector,^  Ubau-anir, 
with  his  suite,  the  wife  of  the  first  lector  Ubau-anir  beheld 
a  vassal '  among  those  that  were  behind  the  king  :  from 
the  hour  that  she  beheld  him,  she  no  longer  knew  in 
what  part  of  the  world  she  was.  She  sent  to  him  her 
serving-maid  who  was  near  her,  to  say  to  him,  "  Come,  that 
we  may  lie  together  for  the  space  of  an  hour ;  put  on  thy 
festival  garments."  She  caused  a  coffer  full  of  fine  garments 
to  be  carried  to  him,^  and  he  came  with  the  serving-maid 
to  the  place  where  she  was.  And  when  the  days  had  passed 
after  this,  as  the  chief  lector  Ubau-anir  had  a  kiosque  at 
the   lake   of    Ubau-anir,*   the   vassal    said    to    the   wife   of 

'  Ankhutalai,  as  Brugsch  has  pointed  out,  is  the  name  of  one  of  the 
quarters  of  Memphis.  I  have  some  cause  to  believe  that  the  site  may 
be  iixed  near  the  mound  now  called  Kom  el  Aziz. 

^  The  expression  cliief  lector  is  a  more  or  less  close  translation  of  the 
title  Khri-hahi.  The  khri-haii  was  literally  the  man  of  the  roll,  he  who, 
at  a  ceremony,  directed  the  accessories  and  the  performance,  placed  the 
performers,  prompted  them  with  the  terms  of  the  formula  they  had  to 
utter,  pointed  out  to  them  the  gestures  and  the  actions  they  had  to 
perform,  if  needful  recited  the  prayers  for  them,  and  was  in  fact  an  actual 
master  of  the  ceremonies  (cf.  Maspero,  Etudes  JSgyptiennes,  vol.  ii,  p.  51 
et  seq.y.  The  khri-habi  or  lector,  whose  business  it  was  to  know  all  the 
formula,  had  also  to  know  the  incantations  and  the  magical  formulse  as 
well  as  the  religious  formulse  ;  this  is  why  all  the  sorcerers  of  our  tale 
are  chief  lectors,  first  lectors  (cf.  Introduction,  p.  1).  The  title  held 
by  them  in  conjunction  with  this  one,  that  of  writer  of  books,  shows  that 
their  learning  was  not  confined  to  the  reciting  of  charms ;  it  extended  to 
the  copying,  and  if  necessary,  the  composing  of  books  of  magic. 

'  The  Egyptian  text  gives  nozesu,  a  little  oTie.  a  man  of  humble  position. 
The  ancient  word  vassal  appears  to  me  to  correspond  exactly  with  the 
meaning  of  the  Egyptian  term. 

*  Cf.  in  the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers,  p.  6  of  the  present  volume,  the  two 
garments  that  the  wife  of  Anupu  promised  to  Baiti  in  order  to  tempt  him. 

^  The  Lake  of  Ubau-anir  is  the  name  of  an  estate  formed  of  the  name 
of  an  owner  and  of  the  word  she,  which  signifies  pool,  inundation  basin, 
the  iirkeh  of  Arabic  Egypt.  It  is  a,  method  of  construction  frequently 
used  in  the  geographical  nomenclature  of  Egypt  (cf.  pp.  28, 72  of  the  present 
volume). 


THE   KING   KHUFUI   AND   THE   MAGICIANS        26 

Ubau-anir :  "  There  is  the  kiosque  at  the  lake  of  Ubau-anir ; 
if  it  pleases  thee  we  will  have  a  short  time  there."  Then 
the  wife  of  Ubau-anir  sent  word  to  the  major-domo  who 
had  charge  of  the  lake,  "  Cause  the  kiosque  which  is  at 
the  lake  to  be  made  ready." 

It  was  done  as  she  had  said,  and  she  stayed  there,  drinking 
with  the  vassal  until  the  sun  set.  And  when  the  evening 
was  come,  he  went  down  to  the  lake  to  bathe  and  the  serving- 
maid  was  with  him,  and  the  major-domo  knew  what  was 
occurring  between  the  vassal  and  the  wife  of  Ubau-anir. 
And  when  the  land  was  lightened  and  it  was  the  second 
day,  the  major-domo  went  to  seek  the  chief  lector,  Ubau- 
anir,  and  told  him  these  things  that  the  vassal  had  done 
in  the  kiosque  with  his  wife.  When  the  chief  lector,  Ubau- 
anir,  knew  these  things  that  had  happened  in  his  kiosque,  he 
said  to  the  major-domo  "  Bring  me  my  ebony  casket  adorned 
with  electrum  that  contains  my  book  of  magic." '  When 
the  major-domo  had  brought  it,  he  modelled  a  crocodile  in 
wax,  seven  inches  long,  he  recited  over  it  that  which  he  recited 
from  his  book  of  magic  ;  he  said  to  it :  "  When  that  vassal 
comes  to  bathe  in  my  lake,  then  drag  him  to  the  bottom  of 
the  water."  ^  He  gave  the  crocodile  to  the  major-domo  and 
said  to  him,  "  As  soon  as  the  vassal  shall  have  gone  down 
into  the  lake,  according  to  his  custom  of  every  day,  throw 
the  wax  crocodile  into  it  behind  him."  The  major-domo 
therefore  went  away  and  he  took  the  wax  crocodile  with  him. 
The  wife  of  Ubau-anir  sent  to  the  major-domo  who  had 
charge  of  the  lake,  and  she  said  to  him,  "  Cause  the 
kiosque  that  is  at  the  edge  of  the  lake  to  be  made  ready, 
for  behold,  I  come  there  to  sojourn."  The  kiosque  was 
furnished    with    all    good    things;    one    came   and   made 

'  In  the  first  story  of  Satni-Kh^mois,  also,  the  miraculous  book  of 
Thoth  is  contained  in  a  casket  (of.  pp.  124,  127). 

^  All  the  commencement  is  so  much  damaged  that  not  one  phrase  is 
now  complete.  The  restoration  is  founded  on  the  admirable  translation 
by  Erman  (iiia  Mdrcheii  des  Papyrus  Westcar,  pp.  22-26), 


26  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

diversion  with  the  vassal  When  it  was  the  time  of  evening 
the  vassal  went  according  to  his  custom  of  every  day,  and 
the  major-domo  threw  the  wax  crocodile  into  the  water 
behind  him :  the  crocodile  changed  into  a  crocodile  pf 
seven  cubits ;  he  seized  the  vassal,  he  dragged  him  under 
the  water.  Now  the  first  lector,  Ubau-anir,  dwelt  seven 
days  with  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Upper  and  Lower 
Egypt  Nabka,  true  of  voice,  while  the  vassal  was  in  the 
water  without  breathing.  But  after  the  seven  days  were 
accomplished,  when  the  King  of  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt 
Nabka,  true  of  voice,  went,  and  when  he  repaired  to  the 
temple,  the  first  lector,  Ubau-anir,  presented  himself  before 
him,  and  said  to  him,  "  May  it  please  Thy  Majesty  to  come 
and  see  the  marvel  that  has  occurred  in  the  time  of  Thy 
Majesty  in  the  matter  of  a  vassal."  His  Majesty  therefore 
went  with  the  chief  lector,  Ubau-anir.  Ubau-anir  said  to 
the  crocodile,  "  Bring  the  vassal  out  of  the  water."  The 
crocodile  came  forth  and  brought  the  vassal  out  of  the 
water.  The  first  lector,  Ubau-anir,  said,  "  Let  him  stop," 
and  he  conjured  him,  he  caused  him  to  stop  in  front  of 
the  king.  Then  His  Majesty,  the  King  of  Upper  and 
of  Lower  Egypt  Nabka,  true  of  voice,  said,  "  I  pray 
you!  this  crocodile  is  terrifying."  Ubau-anir  stooped,  he 
seized  the  crocodile,  and  it  became  in  his  hands  only  a 
crocodile  of  wax.  The  first  lector,  Ubau-anir,  related  to 
His  Majesty  the  King  of  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt  Nabka, 
true  of  voice,  that  which  the  vassal  had  done  in  the  house 
with  his  wife.  His  Majesty  said  to  the  crocodile,  "  Take 
thou  that  which  is  thine."  The  crocodile  plunged  to  the 
bottom  of  the  lake,  and  it  is  not  known  further  what 
became  of  the  vassal  and  of  it.  His  Majesty  the  King  of 
Upper  and  Lower  Egypt,  Nabka,  true  of  voice,  caused  the 
wife  of  Ubaii-anir  to  be  taken  to  the  north  side  of  the 
palace ;  she  was  burnt  and  her  ashes  thrown  into  the  river.^ 
'  The  way  in  whicb  the  climax  is  introduced  in  the  text,  without  any 


THE   KING   KHUFUi   AND   THE   MAGICIANS        27 

Behold  this  is  the  marvel  that  happened  in  the  time  of 
thy  father,  the  King  of  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt  Nabka, 
true  of  voice,  and  is  one  of  those  performed  by  the  first 
lector,  Ubau-anir."  His  Majesty  the  King  Khufui,  true 
of  voice,  said  therefore,  "Let  there  be  presented  to  His 
Majesty  the  King  Nabka,  true  of  voice,  an  offering  of  a 
thousand  loaves,  a  hundred  jugs  of  beer,  an  ox,  two  bowls 
of  incense,  and  also  let  a  flat  cake,  a  quart  of  beer,  a  bowl  of 
incense  be  given  for  the  first  lector,  Ubau-anir,  for  I  have 
beheld  the  proof  of  his  learning."  And  that  was  done 
which   His    Majesty    commanded. 

Then  the  royal  son  Baiufriya  rose  to  speak,  and  he  said : 
I  am  about  to  make  known  to  Thy  Majesty  a  marvel  that  hap- 
pened in  the  time  of  thy  father  Sanafrui,  true  of  voice,  and 
which  is  one  of  those  performed  by  the  first  lector  Zazamankhu. 

One   day   when    the   king   Sanafrui,    true   of   voice,  was 

feeling  dull.  His  Majesty  assembled  the  household  of  the 

king,  1.  h.  s.,  in   order  to  find   something  to  lighten '  his 

heart.      As  nothing  was  found,  he  said,   "  Hasten  and  let 

comment,  seems  to  prove  that  fire  was  the  punishment  appointed  for 
adulterous  wives.  This  supposition  is  confirmed  by  the  story  of  Pheron, 
in  which  the  King  caused  all  the  women  to  be  burnt  alive  who,  having 
had  intercourse  with  a,  man  other  than  their  husband,  could  not  provide 
him  with  the  remedy  necessary  to  restore  his  sight  (Herodotus  II,  cxi. ; 
cf .  Introduction,  p.  xlviii).  We  were  already  aware  that  this  punishment 
was  accorded  for  a  variety  of  crimes — parricide,  sorcery,  heresy,  at  any 
rate  in  Ethiopia  (G.  Maspero,  la  Stele  de  V Excommunication,  in  the  Revue 
arcMologique,  1871,  vol.  ii,  p.  329  et  seq.),  for  the  robbery  or  destruction  of 
temples,  or  of  property  in  mortmain  (Birch,  Inscriptimis  in  the  hieratic  and 
demotic  characters,  pi.  29,  1.  8 ;  cf.  G.  MoUer,  Has  Dekret  des  Ainenophis, 
des  Sohnes  des  Hapu,  in  the  Sitzungsbericliie  of  the  Berlin  Academy,  1910, 
p.  936  i,  note),  for  rebellion  against  the  Pharaoh.  It  must  have  been 
the  more  dreaded,  because  in  destroying  the  body  it  deprived  the  soul 
and  the  double  of  the  support  of  which  it  had  need  in  the  other  world. 
At  the  end  of  the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers  (p.  20  of  the  present  volume) 
the  author  is  careful  to  note  the  punishment  of  the  daughter  of  the  gods, 
without  telling  us  of  what  it  consisted  ;  probably,  according  to  custom,  it 
was  punishment  by  fire. 

'  The  Egyptian  text  gives  here,  as  in  all  places  where  I  have  used  the 
expression  "  lighten,"  a  verb  signifying  refresh.  A  literal  translation  would 
therefore  be  "  something  that  refreshed  his  heart," 


28  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  first  lector,  Zazamankhu,  be  brought  to  me,"  and  he 
was  brought  to  him  immediately.  His  Majesty  said  to  him, 
"  Zazamankhu,  my  brother,  I  have  assembled  the  household 
of  the  king,  1.  h.  s.,  in  order  that  something  might  be 
sought  out  that  should  lighten  my  heart,  but  I  have  found 
nothing."  Zazamankhu  said  to  him,  "  Thy  Majesty  shall 
deign  to  go  to  the  Lake  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  and  cause  a 
bark  to  be  equipped  with  all  the  beautiful  damsels  of  the 
royal  harem.  The  heart  of  Thy  Majesty  will  lighten  when 
thou  shalt  behold  them  go  and  come  ;  and  also  when  thou 
shalt  contemplate  the  beauteous  thickets  of  thy  lake,  when 
thou  shalt  gaze  on  the  beauteous  country  that  borders  it  and 
its  beauteous  banks,  then  the  heart  of  Thy  Majesty  shall 
lighten.  As  for  me,  thus  will  I  arrange  the  afifair.  Cause 
them  to  bring  me  twenty  oars  of  ebony,  adorned  with  gold, 
of  which  the  blades  shall  be  of  maple  wood  adorned  with 
electrum  ;  twenty  women  also  shall  be  brought  to  me  of 
those  who  have  beautiful  bodies,  beautiful  bosoms,  beautiful 
hair,  and  that  have  not  yet  borne  a  child  ;  also  twenty  nets 
shall  be  brought  and  given  to  these  women  as  clothing." ' 
That  was  done  which  His  Majesty  had  commanded.  The 
women  went  and  came,  and  the  heart  of  His  Majesty  was 
rejoicing  to  see  them  row,  when  the  oar  of  one  of  them 
struck  her  hair,  and  her  fish  of  new  malachite  fell  into  the 
water.^     Thereupon  she  became  silent,  she  ceased  to   row, 

'  I  have  held  that  this  refers  to  one  of  the  fine  bead  fillets  in  faience  or 
glazed  ware  that  one  sees  painted  above  the  clothing  of  certain  statues  of 
the  Memphite  period  or  of  the  Xllth  Dynasty— for  instance  on  statue  A  102 
at  the  Louvre  (cf.  Perrot-Chipiez,  Bistoire  de  VArt,  vol.  i,  p.  143,  and 
J.  Capart,  VArt  ilgyptien,  vol.  i,  p.  42).  Here,  however,  the  twenty  girls 
had  no  clothing  made  of  any  material,  but  were  nude  below  their  nets,  as 
Piehl  has  admitted  (^Sphinx,  vol.  i,  pp.  73-74;  vol.  iv,  pp.  118-llf)). 
Borchardt  confirms  the  meaning  I  have  given  by  examples  drawn  from 
the  statues  at  Cairo,  but  he  believes  that  the  girls  had  drawn  the  nets  over 
their  clothing  {Zeitschrift,  vol.  xxxvii,  p.  81).  Petrie  consider.s  that  it 
merely  refers  to  a  very  fine  material  {Deshasheh,  p.  32). 

'  The  text  has  here  a  word  nikhau,  determined  by  a  fisli,  and  which  is 
not  found  in  any  of  the  dictionaries  published  up  to  the  present ;  I  have 


THE   KING   liHUFUI  AND   THE   MAGICIANS        29 

and  her  companions  of  the  same  band  became  silent  and 
rowed  no  longer,'  and  His  Majesty  said,  "  You  do  not  row- 
any  longer  ?  "  They  said,  "  Our  companion  is  silent,  and 
she  does  not  row  any  longer."  His  Majesty  said  to  her, 
'•  Wherefore  dost  thou  not  row  ?  "  She  said,  "  My  fish  of 
new  malachite  has  fallen  into  the  water."  His  Majesty  said, 
"  Only  row  on,  I  will  replace  it  for  thee."  She  said,  "  I  wish 
for  my  own  jewel,  and  not  for  another  like  it."  Thereupon 
His  Maj  esty  said,  "  Very  good ;  let  the  chief  1  ector  Zazamankhu 
be  brought  to  me."  He  was  brought  immediately,  and  His 
Majesty  said,  "  Zazamankhu,  my  brother,  I  have  done  as 
thou  hast  said,  and  the  heart  of  His  Majesty  was  lightened 
when  he  saw  the  women  row,  when  behold,  the  fish  of  new 
malachite  of  one  of  the  little  ones  has  fallen  into  the  water. 
Whereupon  she  has  become  silent,  she  has  ceased  to  row 
and  she  has  stopped  her  comrades.  I  said  to  her,  '  Where- 
fore dost  thou  not  row  ? '  She  said  to  me,  '  The  fish  of 
new  malachite  is  fallen  into  the  water.'  I  said  to  her, 
'  Only  row  on,  and  I  will  replace  it  for  thee.'  She  said, 
'  I  wish  for  my  own  jewel  and  not  for  a  jewel  like  it.' "  Then 
the  chief  lector  repeated  that  which  he  repeated  of  his  book 
of  magic ;  he  raised  a  whole  piece  of  water  and  laid  it  on 
the  other ;  he  found  the  fish  lying  on  a  lump  of  earth,  he 
took  it,  he  gave  it  to  its  owner.  Now  the  water  was 
twelve  cubits  deep  in  the  centre,  and  now  that  it  was  piled 
up  it  was  as  much  as  twenty- four  cubits.  He  repeated  that 
which  he  repeated  of  his  book  of  magic,  and  the  water  of 
the  lake  returned  to  its  place.  Thus  His  Majesty  spent  a 
happy  hour  with  all  the  house  of  the  king,  1.  h.  s.,  and  he 

translated  it  in  general  fashion  by  the  word  fish.  It  does  not  mean  here 
a  real  fish,  but  one  of  the  talismans  in  shape  of  a  fish,  to  which  the 
ancients,  the  Romans  and  Greeks,  as  well  as  the  Eastern  nations,  attri- 
buted all  sorts  of  marvellous  virtues  (F.  de  M61y,  le  Poisson  dans  les 
Pierres  gravies,  in  the  Revue  Archeologique,  3'  sfirie,  vol.  xii,  pp.  319-332). 
'  The  girls  sang  as  they  rowed,  to  secure  a  rhythmic  movement,  according 
to  Egyptian  custom  ;  the  one  who  had  lost  her  amulet  became  silent,  the 
others  also  fell  silent  and  the  movement  ceased. 


30  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

rewarded  the  chief  lector  Zazamankhu  with  all  manner  of 
good  things.  Behold  this  is  the  marvel  that  happened  in  the 
time  of  thy  father,  King  Sanafrui,  true  of  voice,  and  that 
was  worked  by  the  chief  lector,  Zazamankhu,  the  magician. 

His  Majesty  the  King  Khufui,  true  of  voice,  then  said, 
"Let  these  be  presented  to  His  Majesty  the  King 
Sanafrui,  true  of  voice,  an  offering  of  a  thousand  loaves, 
one  hundred  jars  of  beer,  an  ox,  two  bowls  of  incense,  also 
a  flat  cake,  a  quart  of  beer,  a  bowl  of  incense  shall  be  given, 
for  the  chief  lector  Zazamankhu,  the  magician,  for  I  have 
seen  the  proof  of  his  learning."  And  it  was  done  as  His 
Majesty  had  commanded. 

Then  the  son  of  the  king,  Daduf  horu,i  arose  to  speak,  and 
he  said  :  "  Until  now  Thy  Majesty  has  heard  the  telling  of 
marvels  known  only  to  people  of  other  times,  but  of  which 
the  truth  cannot  be  guaranteed.  I  can  show  to  Thy  Majesty 
a  sorcerer  who  is  of  Thy  time  and  whom  Thy  Majesty  does 
not  know."  His  Majesty  said,  "  Who  is  that,  Daduf  horu  ?  " 
The  son  of  the  king,  Dadiifhoru,  said,  "There  is  a  vassal 
who  is  called  Didi,  and  who  lives  at  Didusanafrui.^  He  is 
a  vassal  of  a  hundred  and  ten  years '  who  still  eats  his  five 

'  Dadfifhoru  is  mentioned  here  as  the  sou  of  Khufui.  Other  documents 
make  him  his  grandson,  and  the  son  of  Menkaflriya  (^JSook  of  the  Dead^ 
ch.  Ixiv,  11.  30-32). 

^  The  name  of  this  locality  is  formed  with  that  of  King  Sanafrui ;  its 
position  is  not  known.  We  gather  from  the  expressions  employed  in  our 
text  that  from  the  place  where  Khufui  dwelt  it  was  reached  by  going  up 
the  river.  As  this  place  was  probably  Memphis,  the  natural  conclusion  is 
that  Didusanafrui  was  to  the  south  of  Memphis. 

^  A  hundred  and  ten  years  is  the  extreme  limit  of  Egyptian  life.  Good 
wishes  to  people  who  are  beloved  or  respected  express  a  desire  that  they 
may  live  to  the  age  of  a  hundred  and  ten.  To  exceed  that  is  to  pass  the 
limits  of  human  longevity :  only  certain  privileged  personages,  such  as 
Joseph,  the  husband  of  the  Virgin,  in  Christian  Egypt  are  so  fortunate 
as  to  attain  the  age  of  a  hundred  and  eleven  years  (cf.  Goodwin  in 
Chabas,  Melanges  egyptologiques,  2'  serie,  p.  231  et  seq.").  Later  on  a 
longer  period  was  given,  and  Mai;oudi  speaks  in  the  Prairies  WOr  (trans. 
Barbier  de  Meynard,  vol.  ii,  p.  372  et  seq.)  of  a  Coptic  sage  of  a  hundred 
and  thirty  years  who  was  sent  for  by  Ahmed-Ibn-Tulun  to  be  consulted. 


THE   KING   KHUFUI   AND  THE   MAGICIANS        31 

hundred  loaves  with  a  whole  leg  of  beef,  and  to  this  day 
he  drinks  his  hundred  jars  of  beer.  He  knows  how  to  put 
back  in  place  a  head  that  has  been  cut  off ;  he  knows  how 
to  make  himself  followed  by  a  lion  without  a  leash ' ;  he 
knows  the  numbers  of  the  caskets  of  books  in  the  crypt  of 
Thoth."  2  Now  behold,  His  Majesty  the  King  Khufui,  true 
of  voice,  had  spent  much  time  in  seeking  those  caskets 
of  books  of  the  crypt  of  Thoth,  in  order  to  make  a  copy 
of  them  for  his  pyramid.'  His  Majesty  said  therefore : 
"  Daduf horu  my  son,  bring  him  to  me  thyself."  Vessels 
were  equipped  for  the  son  of  the  King,  Daduf  horu,  and  he 
set  sail  for  Didusanafrui.  When  the  vessels  had  arrived  at 
the  bank,  he  disembarked,  and  he  placed  himself  on  a  chair 
of  ebony  wood,  the  shafts  of  which  were  of  napeca  wood* 


'  Literally  "  leash  on  the  ground  " — i.e.  a  lion  that  has  been  let  loose 
and  its  leash  thrown  on  the  ground.  In  order  to  make  it  obey  him,  the 
magician  had  no  need  of  a  leash  such  as  the  lion  tamers  usually  required  ; 
he  managed  the  beast  by  means  of  eye  and  voice. 

"  The  Egyptians  enclosed  their  books  in  wooden  or  stone  boxes ;  the 
book  boxes  of  the  crypt  of  Thoth  formed  what  we  should  call  his  Library. 
Thoth,  the  secretary  of  the  gods,  was  the  sage,  and  in  consequence  the 
magician,  par  excellence.  It  was  he  whom  the  superior  deities — Ptah, 
Horus,  Amon,  Ea,  and  Osiris — commissioned  to  classify  what  they  had 
created,  and  to  set  down  in  writing  the  names,  the  hierarchy,  the  qualities 
of  things  and  of  beings,  and  the  formulas  binding  on  men  and  on  gods. 
The  usual  work  of  the  magician  consisted  of  seeking  out,  reading,  under- 
standing, and  copying  the  books  of  this  library;  he  who  knew  and 
possessed  them  all,  was  as  powerful  as  Thoth  and  became  the  real  lord 
of  the  universe. 

'  The  Great  Pyramid  does  not  contain  one  line  of  writing,  but  the 
chambers  in  the  pyramid  of  Unas  and  of  the  four  first  kings  of  the  Vlth 
dynasty  are  covered  with  hieroglyphs  ;  they  are  the  prayers  and  formulae 
which  insure  a  happy  life  in  the  other  world  for  the  double  and  the  soul 
of  the  dead  king.  The  author  of  our  story,  who  knew  the  trouble  taken 
by  certain  kings  of  antiquity  to  engrave  extracts  from  the  sacred  books 
in  their  tombs,  no  doubt  imagined  that  Khufui  had  desired  to  do  the 
same,  but  that  he  had  not  succeeded  in  securing  them  presumably  on 
account  of  his  legendary  impiety.  It  is  one  method  of  explaining  why 
there  was  no  inscription  in  the  Great  Pyramid. 

'  The  napeca  (nabg)  is  a  species  of  jujube-tree— Zizyphus  Spina  Christi ; 
the  trunk  and  the  branches  are  very  straight  and  tough,  and  would  form 
excellent  shafts  for  a  litter ;  the  Arabs  used  them  for  lances  and  arrows. 


32  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

adorned  with  gold^;  then  when  he  had  arrived  at  Didu- 
sanafrui,  the  chair  was  placed  on  the  ground,  he  arose 
to  salute  the  magician,  and  he  found  him  laid  on  a  low  bed  ^  at 
the  threshold  of  his  house,  a  female  slave  at  his  head  who 
was  scratching  it,  and  another  who  was  tickUng  his  feet. 
The  royal  son,  Daduf horu,  said  to  him :  "  Thy  condition  is 
that  of  one  who  lives  sheltered  from  old  age.  Old  age  is 
usually  the  arrival  in  port,'  it  is  the  putting  on  of  bandages, 
it  is  the  return  to  the  earth  ;  but  to  remain  thus,  well 
advanced  in  years,  without  infirmity  of  body,  and  without 
decrepitude  of  wisdom  or  of  good  judgment,  is  truly  to  be 
a  fortunate  one.^  I  have  come  hither  in  haste  to  invite 
thee,  by  a  message  from  my  father  Khufui,  true  of  voice ; 
thou  shalt  eat  of  the  best  that  the  king  gives,  and  of  the 
provisions  which  are  such  as  they  have  who  are  among 
those  who  serve  him,  and  thanks  to  him  thou  shalt  attain  in 
good  condition  of  life  to  thy  fathers  who  are  in  the  tomb." 
This  Didi  said  to  him,  "  In  peace,  in  peace, ^  Dadufhoru, 
beloved  royal  son  of  thy  father.  May  thy  father  Khufui, 
true  of  voice,  commend  thee,  and  may  he  assure  thee  thy 
place  before  the  aged !  May  thy  dovhle  gain  his  suit 
against  the  enemies,  and  thy  soul  know  the  arduous  roads 


'  See  Wilkinson.  Manners  and  Customs,  vol.  1,  p.  287 ;  also  Lepsius, 
Denkm.,  II,  pi.  43a,  pi.  121a,  etc.,  representation  of  carrying  chairs  similar 
to  that  used  by  Dadfifboru  in  our  story. 

'  Probably  an  angareb  like  those  found  in  the  tombs,  and  similar  to 
the  angarehs  of  the  Egyptians  and  Berberines  of  to-day ;  cf.  p.  15,  note  1. 
of  the  present  volume. 

^  To  land,  to  arrive  in  port,  is  one  of  the  numerous  euphemisms 
employed  by  the  Egyptians  to  express  the  idea  of  death.  It  is  easily 
explained  by  the  idea  of  the  journey  by  boat  that  the  dead  were  forced 
to  make  to  reach  the  other  world,  and  by  the  transport  of  the  mummy  in 
a  bark  across  the  river  on  the  day  of  the  funeral. 

■•  The  compliment  is  so  involved  that  I  fear  I  may  not  have  entirely 
understood  it ;  I  have  been  inspired  in  my  translation  by  the  observations 
of  Piehl  in  Sphinx,  vol.  i,  pp.  74,  75. 

'  In  the  ancient  language  this  is  me  hatpu,  me  hatpn,  the  equivalent 
of  bi-s-salamaJt,  the  salutation  so  frequently  heard  to-day  in  Arab 
Egypt, 


THE   KING   KHUFUI  AND   THE   MAaiCIANS        33 

that  lead  to  the  door  of  Hobs-bagai,^  for  it  is  thou,  son  of 
the  king,  who  art  good  of  judgment ! "  ^  The  son  of  the 
king,  Dadufhoru,  held  out  his  two  hands  to  him ;  he  raised 
him  up,  and  as  he  went  with  him  to  the  qus.y,  he  held  him 
by  the  hand.  Didi  said  to  him :  "  Let  a  caique  be  given  me 
to  bring  me  my  children  and  my  books " ;  they  gave  him 
two  boats  for  his  household,  and  Didi  himself  sailed  in  the 
bark  in  which  was  the  king's  son,  Dadufhoru.  Now  when 
they  arrived  at  the  Court,  as  soon  as  the  king's  son,  Daduf- 
horu, had  entered  to  report  to  His  Majesty  the  King  of 
the  two  Egypts,  Khufui,  true  of  voice,  the  king's  son, 
Dadufhoru,  said,  "Sire,  1.  h.  s.,  my  lord,  I  have  brought 
Didi."  His  Majesty  said,  "  Hasten,  bring  him  to  me,"  and 
when  His  Majesty  had  come  into  the  audience  chamber  of 
Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  Didi  was  presented  to  him.  His  Majesty 
said  :  "  How  is  it,  Didi,  that  I  have  never  yet  seen  thee  ?  " 
Didi  said  to  him  :  "  Who  is  called  comes ;  the  sovereign, 
1.  h.  s.,  calls  me,  I  am  here,  I  have  come."  His  Majesty 
said :  "  Is  that  true  which  is  said,  that  thou  knowest  how 
to  put  back  in  place  a  head  that  has  been  cut  off  ?  "  Didi 
said  to  him,  "Yes,  I  know  that,  sire,  1.  h.  s.,  my  lord." 
His  Majesty  said  :  "  Let  a  prisoner  be  brought  me  of  those 
that  are  in  prison,  and  who  are  condemned."  Didi  said  to 
him :  "  No,  no ;  not  a  man,  sire,  1.  h.  s.,  my  lord ;  let  there 

'  Hobs-bagai  is  an  important  personage,  under  whose  authority  a  part 
of  the  entrance  gateways  to  the  other  world  were  placed  (Erman,  die 
MarcTien  des  Papyrus  Westcar,  p.  49).  He  is  a  duplicate  of  one  of  the 
forms  of  Osiris  ;  Osiris  motionless  in  his  mummy  wrappings. 

^  This  phrase,  very  clear  for  ancient  readers,  is  less  so  for  moderns. 
According  to  the  exigencies  of  the  puerile  and  harmless  civilities  of  the 
period,  Didi  was  obliged  to  return  compliment  for  compliment.  He  there- 
fore states  that  Dadufhoru,  young  as  he  is,  has  a  position  that  places  him 
above  the  aged,  and  be  explains  this  excess  of  honour  by  the  profound 
learning  of  the  young  man.  Dad<ifhoru  had,  in  fact,  a,  reputation  for 
learning — i.e.  as  a  sorcerer — which  caused  him  to  be  quoted  in  the  Hook  of 
the  Dead  as  the  originator  of  chapter  Ixiv.,  one  of  the  most  important 
in  the  collection,  and  in  the  Anastasi  Papyi-us  i  (pi.  x,  1.  8),  as  one  of 
the  best  accredited  interpreters  of  those  books  which  were  least  compre- 
hensible to  the  vulgar. 


34  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

be  no  command  to  do  such  a  thing  to  the  noble  cattle.^ 
A  goose  was  brought  to  him ;  its  head  was  cut  ofif,  and  the 
goose  was  put  at  the  right-hand  side  of  the  chamber,  and 
the  head  of  the  goose  at  the  left-hand  side  of  the  chamber. 
Didi  recited  that  which  he  recited  of  his  book  of  magic  ; 
the  goose  rose  up,  it  hopped,  the  head  did  the  same,  and 
when  one  had  reunited  with  the  other  the  goose  began  to 
cackle.  He  had  a  pelican  (?)  brought  in;  the  same  thing 
happened  to  it.  His  Majesty  had  a  bull  brought  to  him, 
they  cast  his  head  down  on  the  ground,  and  Didi  recited 
that  which  he  recited  of  his  book  of  magic  ;  the  bull  placed 
himself  behind  him,  but  his  halter  remained  on  the  ground.* 
King  Khufui,  true  of  voice,  said,  "  What  is  it  they  say, 
that  thou  knowest  the  numbers  of  the  caskets  of  books  of 
the  crypt  of  Thoth  ?  "  Didi  said  to  him,  "  Excuse  me  that  I 
do  not  know  the  number,  sire,  1.  h.  s.,my  lord,  but  I  know  the 
place  where  they  are."  His  Majesty  said  :  "  That  place,  where 
is  it  ?  "  That  Didi  said  to  him,  "  There  is  a  block  of  sand- 
stone in  what  is  called  the  room  of  the  rolls  at  Onu,^  and 
the  caskets  of  books  of  the  crypt  of  Thoth  are  in  the  block." 
The  King  said:  "Bring  me  the  caskets  that  are  in  that 
block."  ^     Didi  said  to  him,  "  Sire,  1.  h.  s.,  my  lord,  behold 

'  Piehl  has  shown  that  in  this  expression  the  author  referred  to 
humanity  (Sphinx,  vol.  i,  p.  75).  In  fact,  the  texts  relating  to  the  four 
human  races  call  men  the  herds  of  E§.. 

'  Cf.  above,  p.  31,  note  1  of  the  present  volume.  When  the  neck  of 
the  bull  was  sundered  the  halter  had  fallen  off ;  the  head  and  the  body 
reunited,  but  the  leash  remained  where  it  had  fallen. 

"  Onu  is  Heliopolis,  the  City  of  the  Sun.  Each  chamber  of  the  temple 
had  its  special  name,  which  was  often  inscribed  over  the  principal  door, 
and  which  was  derived,  sometimes  from  the  appearance  of  the  decoration, 
the  GolAen  Chamier,  sometimes  from  the  class  of  objects  it  contained,  the 
Chamber  of  Perfumes,  the  Chamber  of  Water,  or  from  the  nature  of  the 
ceremonies  performed  in  it.  The  block  mentioned  here  was  probably  a 
movable  block,  like  that  in  the  Story  of  Rhampsinitus  (cf.  p.  197),  and  served 
to  conceal  the  entrance  to  the  crypt  where  Thoth  had  deposited  his  books. 

*  The  scribe  has  omitted  here  the  end  of  Didi's  reply  and  the  beginning 
of  a  fresh  question  of  the  King's  (Brman,  die  Mdrchen  des  Papyrus 
Westcar,  p.  55) ;  I  have  restored  what  was  missing  in  the  manuscript, 
according  to  the  context. 


THE   KING   KHUFUI   AND   THE   MAGICIANS         35 

it  is  not  I  who  shall  bring  them  to  thee."  His  Majesty 
said :  "  Who  then  will  bring  them  to  me  ?  "  Didi  said  to 
him  :  "  The  eldest  of  the  three  children  who  are  in  the 
womb  of  Kuditdidit,  he  will  bring  them  to  thee."  His 
Majesty  said :  "  In  faith !  she  of  whom  thou  speakest, 
Ruditdidit,  who  is  she  ?  "  Didi  said  to  him  :  "  She  is  the 
wife  of  a  priest  of  Ea,  Lord  of  Sakhibu.  She  hath  con- 
ceived three  infants  by  Ra,  Lord  of  Sakhibu,  and  the  god 
has  said  to  her  that  they  will  fulfil  this  beneficent  function 
in  the  Entire  Land,'  and  that  the  eldest  of  them  will  be 
great  pontiff  at  Onu."  The  heart  of  His  Majesty  was 
troubled,  but  Didi  said  to  him,  "  What  are  these  thoughts, 
sire,  1.  h.  s.,  my  lord  ?  Is  it  because  of  these  three  children  ? 
I  say  to  thee :  Thy  son,  his  son,  and  one  of  hers."  ^  His 
Majesty  said :  When  wiU  she  give  birth  to  them,  this 
Ruditdidit  ?  "  He  said,  "  She  will  give  birth  to  them  on 
the  15th  day  of  the  month  Tybi."  His  Majesty  said,  "If 
the  shallow  waters  of  the  canal  of  the  Two  Fishes  do  not 
cut  off  the  way,  I  will  go  myself,  in  order  to  see  the  temple 
of  Ra,  Lord  of  Sakhibu."  Didi  said  to  him :  "  Then  I  will 
cause  that  there  shall  be  four  cubits  of  water  on  the  shallows 
of  the  canal  of  the   Two  Fishes."  ^     When   the  King  had 

'  Euphemism  for  designating  royalty.  For  the  meaning  of  the  ex- 
pression Entire-Land  see  above,  p.  4,  note  1. 

^  Tiiis  phrase  is  drawn  up  in  oracular  style,  suitable  to  the  reply  of  a 
magician.  It  appears  to  be  intended  to  reassure  the  king,  asserting  that 
the  accession  of  the  three  children  is  not  immediate,  but  that  his  own 
son  will  reign  and  then  his  son's  son  before  the  destiny  is  accomplished. 
The  royal  lists  place  after  Khuful,  first  Didtifrlya,  then  Khafrlya,  then 
Menkaflriya,  then  Shopsiskaf,  before  Usirkaf,  the  first  of  the  three  kings  of 
the  Vth  dynasty  for  whom  our  story  announces  this  great  future.  The  author 
of  our  story  has  omitted  Didfifriya  and  Shopsiskaf,  of  whom  the  people 
had  lost  all  recollection  (Erman,  die  Marehen  des  Papyrus  Westoar,  p.  19). 

'  The  resolutions  of  the  king  are  expressed  in  terms  which  do  not 
appear  clear  to  us,  no  doubt  because  we  do  not  possess  the  end  of  the 
tale.  After  what  the  magician  has  said  to  him,  the  king  no  longer  thinks 
of  killing  the  children,  but  for  all  that  he  does  not  renounce  the  intention 
of  struggling  against  destiny,  and  to  begin  with  he  asks  which  day  ,' 
EudStdidSt  will  give  birth  to  the  children.  Didi  already  knows  the  day, 
the  15th  of  Tybi,  thanks  to  the  amazing  intuition  so  frequently  possessed 


36  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

returned  to  his  abode,  His  Majesty  said,  "  Let  Didi  be 
put  under  the  care  of  the  house  of  the  royal  son  Dadufhoru, 
to  dwell  there  with  him,  and  let  an  allowance  of  a  thousand 
loaves,  a  hundred  jars  of  beer,  an  ox,  and  a  hundred  bunches 
of  eschalots  be  given  to  him."  And  it  was  done  as  His 
Majesty  had  commanded. 

Then,  one  of  those  days,  it  came  to  pass  that  Ruditdidit 
suffered  the  pains  of  childbirth.  The  Majesty  of  Ea,  Lord 
of  Sakhibu,  said  to  Isis,  to  Nephthys,  to  Maskhonuit,^  to 
Hiqait,^  to  Khnumu,  "Hie!  hasten  to  deliver  Euditdidit 
of  those  three  children  who  are  in  her  womb,  and  who 
will  fulfil  that  beneficent  function  in  the  Entire  Land, 
building  your  temples  for  you,  supplying  your  altars  with 
offerings,  provisioning  your  libation  tables,  increasing  your 
possessions  in  mortmain."  Then  those  gods  departed ;  the 
goddesses  changed  themselves  into  musicians,  and  Khnumu 
went  with  them  as  porter.^     They  arrived  at  the  house  of 

by  the  heroes  of  Egyptian  tales  (of.  p.  13,  where  the  magicians  appear 
to  know  at  once  that  the  daughter  of  the  gods  is  in  the  Vale  of  the  Acacia). 
The  King  asked  this  question,  no  doubt,  in  order  to  procure  the  horoscope 
of  the  children,  and  to  discover  whether  the  stars  confirmed  the  prediction 
of  the  sorcerer.  He  considered  for  a  moment  whether  he  would  not  go 
to  Sakhibu  to  study  what  was  occurring  in  the  temple  of  Ea,  but  the 
state  of  the  canal  did  not  permit  him  to  carry  out  his  plan,  although  the 
magician  promised  to  add  four  cubits  of  water  at  the  shallows,  that  his 
bark  might  pass  without  difficulty.  The  canal  of  the  Two-Fish  was 
the  principal  canal  that  crossed  the  Letopolite  nome  (Brugsch,  Dictioji- 
naire  Giographique,  p.  621). 

'  Maskhonult  is  the  goddess  of  Maskhcmu,  i.e.  of  the  cradle,  and  in  this 
capacity  she  assists  at  the  accouchement :  she  combines  in  herself  Shait 
and  Ean&nlt,  the  goddess  who  controls  destiny  and  the  goddess  who  gives 
suck  (ranumi)  to  the  child,  and  gives  him  his  name  (yiitu)  and,  in  con- 
sequence, his  personality.      Cf.  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  i,  p.  27. 

"  Hiqalt,  who  with  Khnumu  is  called  one  of  the  chief  cradles  of  Abydoi 
(Louvre,  C  3),  i.e.  one  of  the  divinities  who  presided  at  the  foundation 
of  the  city,  is  the  goddess  in  form  of  a  frog,  or  with  a  frog's  head,  one 
of  the  cosmic  deities  who  acted  at  the  birth  of  the  world.  Thus  her 
presence  is  quite  natural  at  an  accouchement. 

'  The  text  says,  "  as  carrier  of  a  cofier,  a  sack."  Khnumu  assumed  the 
post  of  the  domestic  who  accompanies  the  almelis,  carrying  their  luggage, 


THE   KING   KHUFUI   AND   THE   MAGICIANS        37 

Eausir,  and  they  found  him  who  dwelt  there  unfolding 
the  linen.^  They  passed  in  front  of  him  with  their 
castanets  and  sistrums,^  but  he  said  to  them,  "Ladies, 
behold,  there  is  a  woman  here  suffering  the  pains  of  child- 
birth." They  said,  "Allow  us  to  see  her  for,  lo,  we  are 
skilled  in  midwifery."  He  said  to  them,  "Come  then," 
and  they  went  in  to  Ruditdidit,  and  then  they  closed  the 
door  on  her  and  on  themselves.  Then  Isis  placed  herself 
before  her,  Nephthys  behind  her,  Hiqait  assisted  the  birth.' 
Isis  said,  "  Oh,  child,  be  not  mighty  in  her  womb,  in  thy 
name  of  Usirraf,  he  whose  mouth  is  mighty !  "  *     Thereupon 

aud,  when  necessary,  taking  part,  vocal  and  instrumental,  in  the  concert. 
One  of  the  little  wooden  personages  found  at  Melr,  who  are  in  the  Cairo 
Museum,  carries  a  coffer,  and  seems  to  me  to  show  clearly  what  a  hri-qani 
may  have  been.  (Maspero,  Guide  du  Visiteur  an  musee  dw  Caire,  1910, 
5th  English  edition,  p.  500,  No.  155. 

'  He  was  unfolding  the  linen  intended  for  the  accouchement. 

'  We  shall  see  later  in  the  Memoirs  of  Svnuhit  (pp.  93,  94  )  a  similar 
domestic  scene,  but  where  the  actors  are  princes  of  the  Pharaonic  house. 

'  To  understand  the  positions  adopted  by  the  goddesses  in  relation  to 
the  woman,  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  Egyptian  women  in  child- 
birth did  not  assume  a  horizontal  position,  as  with  us.  Certain  pictures 
show  that  they  either  crouched  on  a  bed  or  a  mat  with  their  legs  bent 
under  them,  or  sat  on  a  chair  which  appears  to  be  in  no  way  different 
from  an  ordinary  chair.  The  women  who  assembled  to  help  took  different 
parts.  One  placed  herself  behind  the  patient  and  clasped  her  round  the 
body  with  her  arms  during  the  pains,  thus  affording  her  a  firm  support 
and  assisting  expulsion ;  the  other  placed  herself  in  front  of  her,  kneeling 
or  crouching,  ready  to  receive  the  infant  in  her  hands  and  prevent  its 
falling  roughly  to  the  ground.  The  two  goddesses,  Isis  and  Nephthys, 
come  to  assist  Eudltdidlt,  acted  like  the  ordinary  midwives,  and  Hiqait 
hastened  the  birth  by  massaging  the  womb,  as  is  still  done  by  the  Egyptian 
midwives  of  to-day. 

'  According  to  a  custom  usual  not  only  in  Egypt,  but  in  the  whole 
of  the  East,  the  midwife,  when  giving  the  infant  his  name,  makes  a 
pun,  which  is  more  or  less  intelligible,  on  the  meaning  of  the  words 
of  which  the  name  is  composed.  Here  the  child  i.s  called  Vsir-rof, 
Hsir-raf,  which  by  its  meaning  is  a  variant  of  the  name  Usir-Jiaf,  which 
was  borne  by  the  first  king  of  the  Vth  dynasty.  Usir-rof  signifies  he 
whose  mouth  is  mit/hty.  Usirkaf  is  he  whose  double  is  mighty,  and  the 
goddess  also  employs  the  verb  usiru  in  the  first  part  of  the  phrase,  "  Be 
not  mighty  (usiru')  in  her  womb," — probably,  do  not  bruise  the  womb 
of  thy  mother — "in  the  name  of  him  whose  mouth  is  mighty."  The 
proceeding  is  the  same  as  that  by  which  the  Hebrew  hi.-.torians  explained 
the  names  of  the  sons  of  Jacob  (Genesis  xxix,  32 — xxx,  24). 
8 


38  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

this  child  came  out  upon  her  hands,  a  child  of  a  cubit's 
length,^  powerful  of  bone,  with  members  the  colour  of 
gold  and  hair  of  true  lapis-lazuli.^  The  goddesses  washed 
him,  they  cut  the  umbilical  cord,  they  laid  him  on  a 
brick  bed,  and  then  Maskhonuit  approached  him  and  said 
to  him,  "  This  is  a  king  who  will  exercise  royalty  in  the 
Entire  Land."  Khnumu  infused  health  into  his  members.^ 
Isis  then  placed  herself  before  Euditdidit,  Nephthys  behind 
her,  Hiqait  assisted  the  birth.  Isis  said,  "Child,  do  not 
journey  longer  in  her  womb,  in  thy  name  Sahuriya,  he 
who  is  Ea  journeying  in  heaven."  ^  Thereupon  this  child 
came  out  upon  her  hands,  a  child  of  a  cubit's  length, 
powerful  of  bone,  with  members  the  colour  of  gold  and 
hair  of  true  lapis-lazuli.  The  goddesses  washed  him,  they 
cut  the  cord,  they  carried  him  on  a  brick  bed,  then 
Maskhonuit  approached  him  and  said,  "This  is  a  king 
who  will  exercise  royalty  in  this  Entire  Land."  Khnumu 
infused  health  into  his  members.  Isis  then  placed  herself 
before  Euditdidit,  Nephthys  placed  herself  behind  her, 
Hiqait  assisted  the  birth.     Isis  said,  "  Child,  do  not  tarry 

'  This  is  the  normal  height  of  newly  born  infants  in  Egyptian  texts 
(Brman,  die  Mdrolien  des  Papyrus  Westcar,  p.  62). 

-  The  text  states  literally  that  "  the  colour  of  his  limbs  was  of  gold, 
and  his  wig  of  true  lapis-lazuli,"  in  other  words  that  his  limbs  were 
precious  as  gold,  his  wig  blue  like  lapis-lazuli.  Can  there  be  a  pun  here 
on  nuht,  gold,  and  miiu,  to  model,  to  cast,  which  is  often  used  in  the 
texts  to  express  the  creation  of  the  limbs  of  a  man  by  the  gods  1  In 
any  case  the  pictured  wigs  with  which  the  mummy  coffins  are  decorated 
are  almost  always  coloured  blue,  so  that  the  expression  in  our  text 
answers  exactly  to  a  detail  of  Egyptian  art  or  industry.  Finally,  the 
child  described  by  our  author  is  not  a  natural  infant,  but  a  statuette 
of  a  divinity,  with  its  blue  headdress  and  incrustations  of  gold  on  the  body. 

'  Maskhonuit  being,  as  I  have  said  (p.  36,  note  1),  human  destiny,  is 
called  upon  to  award  the  decree  of  life  for  the  child.  Khnumu,  the 
modeller,  completes  the  work  of  the  goddesses :  he  massages  the  body  of 
the  new-horn  infant  and  infuses  it  with  health  (cf.  p.  12,  note  1). 

*  The  pun  turns  on  the  word  sdhu,  which  forms  part  of  the  name  of 
the  king  Sdhurtya.  Sdhu  signifies  to  approach  .  .,  to  journey  to  ...  . 
The  goddess  tells  the  child  not  to  wander  longer  in  the  womb  of  his 
mother,  and  that  because  his  name  is  Sahuriya,  he  who  journeys  to 
heaven  like  the  sun. 


THE   KING   KHUFUI  AND   THE   MAGICIANS         39 

longer  in  the  darkness  of  her  womb,  in  thy  name  of  Kakaui, 
the  dark  one."  ^  Then  this  child  came  out  upon  her  hands, 
a  child  of  a  cubit's  length,  powerful  of  bone,  with  members 
the  colour  of  gold  and  hair  of  true  lapis-lazuli.  The 
goddesses  washed  him,  they  cut  the  cord,  they  laid  him 
on  a  brick  bed,  then  Maskhonuit  approached  him  and 
said,  "  This  is  a  king  who  will  exercise  royalty  in  this 
Entire  Land."  Khnumu  infused  health  into  his  members.^ 
When  the  deities  went  out  after  having  delivered  Ruditdidit 
of  her  three  children  they  said,  "  Rejoice,  Rausir,  for  be- 
hold, three  children  are  born  to  thee."  He  said  to  them, 
"  Ladies,  what  can  I  do  for  you  ?  Ah,  give  this  com 
that  is  here  to  your  porter,  that  you  may  take  it  to  the 
silos  as  payment ! "  *  And  Khnumu  took  up  the  com, 
and  they  returned  to  the  place  whence  they  came.  But 
Isis  said  to  those  deities,  "  What  are  we  thinking  of  to 
have  come  to  Rausir  without  having  performed  some 
prodigy  for  these  children  whereby  we  can  make  known 
the  event  to  their  father  who  has  sent  us  ?  "  *  Then  they 
fashioned  three  diadems  of  a  sovereign  lord,  1.  h.  s.,**  and 
they  placed  them  in  the  com,  they  poured  out  storm  and 
rain  from  the  height  of  the  sky,  they  returned  to  the 
house,  and   then  they  said,  "  Place  this  com   in    a   sealed 


'  The  third  king  of  the  Vth  dynasty,  Neterarkeriya,  is  also  called 
Kakaui,  and  we  do  not  know  the  meaning  of  this  name.  To  secure 
the  pun  on  Kakaui,  the  scribe  has  been  forced  to  alter  the  traditional 
spelling. 

^  The  original  manuscript  here  alters  the  sequence  of  the  operations  : 
I  have  placed  each  one  in  the  order  adopted  at  the  birth  of  the  two 
first  children. 

'  Cf.,  for  the  meaning  of  the  last  part  of  the  phrase,  Bissing,  Zu, 
Papyrus  Westcar,  xi,  8,  in  Zeitschrift,  1905,  vol.  xliv,  p.  90. 

*  TJieir  fattier  does  not  here  mean  Rausir,  the  husband  of  Ruditdidit, 
who  was  not  aware  of  the  divine  origin  of  the  three  children,  but  the 
god  Ra  of  Sakhlbu,  the  real  father,  who  had  in  fact  sent  the  goddesses 
to  the  help  of  his  mistress. 

°  Cf.  on  this  point  the  note  by  Sethe,  Zu  Westcar,  11,  13,  in  Zeitschrift, 
1891,  vol.  xxix,  p.  84. 


40  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

chamber,  until  we  return  dancing  northwards."^     And  the 
corn  was  placed  in  a  sealed  chamber. 

Euditdidit  purified  herself  with  a  purification  of  fourteen 
days,  and  then  she  said  to  her  servant,  "Is  the  house  in 
good  order  ? "  The  maid  said  to  her,  "  It  is  famished 
with  all  good  things ;  nevertheless,  the  pots  for  the  bouza, 
they  have  not  been  brought."  ^  Then  Euditdidit  said  to 
her,  "  Why  have  not  the  pots  been  brought  ?  "  The  servant 
said,  "  They  would  have  been  ready  to  brew  without  delay, 
if  the  corn  of  those  singers  had  not  been  in  a  chamber, 
sealed  with  their  seal."  Then  Euditdidit  said  to  her,  "  Gro 
down,^  bring  us  some  of  it;  Eausir  will  give  them  some 
more  in  its  place  when  they  return."  The  servant  went 
and  she  opened  the  chamber ;  she  heard  voices,  music, 
singing,  and  dancing,  zaggarit,"^  all  that  is  done  for  a  king, 
in  the  chamber.'  She  came  back,  she  reported  to  Euditdidit 
all  that  she  had  heard.      Euditdidit  searched  the  chamber 


'  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  the  goddesses  were  disguised  as  wander- 
ing musicians.  They  therefore  requested  the  people  of  the  house  to  keep 
the  corn  locked  up,  until  they  had  finished  their  tour  in  the  south  country 
and  should  come  northward  for  the  second  time. 

^  The  text  runs  "  except  the  vases,"  and  as  Erman  has  clearly  distinguished 
(die  Mdrclien  des  Papyrus  Westcar,  p.  67),  the  word  vase  should  mean 
here  a  liquor :  vase  will  have  taken  the  same  meaning  as  cup,  glass,  pielist, 
litre,  in  our  modem  languages,  the  name  of  the  vessel  being  used  for  the 
liquid  it  contains.  As  the  grain  that  had  been  given  to  the  goddesses 
was  necessary  to  prepare  these  vases,  I  imagine  that  bouza.  is  here  referred 
to,  the  sweet  beer  of  the  ancient  Egyptians  as  of  the  modern  Egyptians. 

'  The  women's  apartment  is  on  an  upper  floor.  The  servant  h'&d  to 
go  downstairs  to  fetch  the  corn. 

'  This  is  the  Arabic  word  used  to  designate  the  kind  of  shrill  cry 
uttered  in  chorus  by  the  women  at  festivals  to  show  their  joy.  They 
produce  it  by  placing  the  point  of  their  tongue  against  their  upper  teeth 
and  making  it  vibrate  rapidly. 

'  An  Arabic  author  relates  that  in  the  Great  Pyramid  there  was  a  closed 
chamber  from  whence  issued  a  buzzing  of  incredible  force  (Carra  de  Vaux, 
VAlrege  des  Merveilles,  p.  214) ;  it  was  evidently  what  we  call  the  serdab, 
that  held  the  statues  of  the  king.  Our  text  explains  the  Arabic  legend 
and  shows  that  its  origin  was  ancient ;  the  visitors  to  the  Great  Pyramid 
believed  they  heard  the  same  sounds  of  royal  festival  that  Euditdidit  and 
her  .servant  heard  in  the  bin  that  held  the  crowns  of  the  three  children. 


'       THE   KING   KHUFUI  AND.  THE  MAGICIANS        41 

and  did  not  discover  the  place  from  which  the  sound  came. 
She  placed  her  forehead  against  the  bin,  and  she  found 
that  the  sound  was  inside  it.  She  therefore  placed  the 
bin  in  a  wooden  coffer,  she  placed  on  it  another  seal,  she 
surrounded  it  with  leather,  she  placed  the  whole  in  the 
chamber  where  the  vases  were,  and  this  she  closed  with 
her  seal.'  When  Eausir  returned  from  the  garden,  Eudit- 
didit  related  these  things  to  him,  and  he  was  exceedingly 
pleased ;  they  sat  down  and  spent  a  day  of  happiness. 

But  lo,  many  days  after  this,  Euditdidit  disputed  with 
her  servant  and  caused  her  to  be  beaten.  The  servant  said 
to  the  people  who  were  in  the  house,  "Is  it  thus  that  she 
treats  me,  she  who  has  given  birth  to  three  kings  ?  I  shall 
go  and  tell  it  to  the  Majesty  of  the  king  Khufui,  true  of 
voice."  She  went,  therefore,  and  found  her  eldest  brother 
by  her  mother,  who  was  tying  up  the  flax  that  had  been 
stripped  on  the  threshing-floor.  He  said  to  her,  "  Where 
art  thou  going,  my  little  lady  ?  "  and  she  told  him  these 
things.  Her  brother  said  to  her,  "  It  is  better  to  do  what 
has  to  be  done,  than  to  come  to  me ;  I  will  teach  thee  to 
rebel."  Thereupon  he  took  up  a  bundle  of  flax  against 
her,  and  administered  punishment  to  her.  The  maid  ran 
to  fetch  a  little  water,  and  the  crocodile  carried  her  off.^ 
When  her  brother  ran  to  Euditdidit  to  tell  her  that,  he 
found  Euditdidit  seated,  her  head  on  her  knees,  her  heart 
sad  more  than  all  things.     He  said  to  her,  "  Lady,  why  this 


'  The  text  is  much  involved  here.  I  think  I  understand  that  Euditdidit 
took  the  clay  bin  in  which  the  goddesses  had  put  their  wheat,  and  put 
it  in  a  wooden  case  which  she  covered  with  leather  and  on  which  she 
placed  a  seal,  and  that  she  then  shut  it  up  in  her  cellar,  to  prevent  any- 
one hearing  the  mysterious  sounds. 

^  The  crocodile  or  hippopotamus  is  often  the  minister  of  divine 
justice  in  Egypt.  Menes  is  carried  ofE  by  a  hippopotamus,  and  Akhthoes, 
the  first  king  of  the  IXth  Dynasty,  by  a  crocodile  (Manetho,  edit.  Unger, 
pp.  78,  107.  The  servant,  beaten  by  her  brother,  runs  to  the  nearest  canal 
to  procure  a  little  water  to  wash  with  and  refresh  herself ;  the  crocodile 
sent  by  Ed  carries  her  oflE  and  drowns  her. 


,J..' 


,, rr\  r,i,^(: 


42  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

heart  ?  "  She  said,  "  It  is  because  of  that  girl  that  was  in 
the  house ;  lo !  she  has  gone  saying,  '  I  will  go  and 
denounce.' "  He  prostrated  himself  with  his  face  to  the 
earth  and  said  to  her,  "  My  lady,  when  she  came  to  tell 
me  that  which  had  happened,  and  complained  to  me,  lo  ! 
I  gave  her  evil  blows ;  then  she  went  to  draw  herself  a  little 
water,  and  the  crocodile  carried  her  off.  .  .  ." 

The  end  of  the  romance  may  have  contained,  among  other 
episodes,  the  journey  to  Sakhibu,  to  which  Cheops  alluded 
towards  the  end  of  his  interview  with  Didi.  The  king  was 
powerless  in  his  enterprises  against  the  divine  children ;  his 
successors,  Chephren  and  Mykerinus,  were  not  more  fortunate 
than  he,  and  the  intrigue  ended  in  the  accession  of  Usirkaf. 
Possibly  those  last  pages  contained  allusions  to  some  of  the 
traditions  collected  by  the  Greek  writers.  Cheops  and  Chephren 
avenged  themselves  for  the  enmity  shown  them  by  ES,,  by  closing 
his  temple  at  Sakhibu  and  in  other  towns.  They  thus  justified 
one  of  the  stories  in  which  they  are  renowned  for  impiety.  At 
all  events  the  Westcar  Papyrus  is  the  first  that  has  reached  us 
with  an  original  redaction  of  the  romances  of  which  the  cycle  of 
Cheops  and  the  kings  who  built  the  pyramids  is  composed. 


THE  LAMENTATIONS  OF  THE  FELLAH 

(XIIITH  DYNASTY) 

This  tale  seems  to  have  been  very  popular  throughout  the  period  of 
the  Theban  Empire,  as  four  manuscripts  are  known  that  contain  it, 
three  at  Berlin  and  one  in  London.  The  three  Berlin  manuscripts 
have  been  published  by  Lepsius  in  the  Denkmdler  aus  ^gypten  und 
jEthiopien,  Abtheilung  VI,  then  in  Vogelsang-Gardiner,  die  Klagen 
des  Bauern  (forming  vol.  i  of  Erman's  Literarische  Texten  des  Mittleren 
Reiches)  1908,  Leipzig,  folio. 

1st.  The  Berlin  Paxryrm  No.  2  (Berlin  3023),  of  pi.  108-110  of 
Denkmdler  (cf.  plates  5,  5a-lY,  17a  of  die  Klagen)  consists  of 
three  hundred  and  tv?enty-five  lines  in  a  large  script  of  the  early 
part  of  the  Xlllth  dynasty  ;  carefully  written  at  first,  it  becomes 
increasingly  careless  towards  the  end.  The  beginning  and  the  end 
of  the  narrative  are  missing. 

2nd.  The  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  4  (Berlin  302S),  of  pi.  113-114  of 
Denkmdler,  cf.  pi.  18,  18a-24,  24a  of  die  Klagen)  comprises  a 
hundred  and  forty-two  lines  of  very  rapid  writing  of  the  same  period 
as  that  of  the  preceding  manuscript.  It  seems  to  have  been  damaged 
by  prolonged  handling,  and  the  lacunae  caused  by  usage  combined 
with  the  lack  of  neatness  in  the  writing,  render  it  difficult  to  decipher. 
The  parts  which  are  preserved  contain  an  additional  fifty  lines 
towards  the  end,  but  even  so  the  end  of  the  story  is  missing.  Frag- 
ments of  these  two  manuscripts,  which  had  escaped  Lepsius,  were 
acquired  by  the  late  Lord  Amherst  of  Hackney  and  formed  part  of 
his  collection  at  Didlington  Hall.  The  most  important  of  these 
contain  several  of  the  missing  fragments  of  pages  of  the  Berlin 
Papyrus  No.  2.  Others  belong  to  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  4,  and  have 
been  published  by  Percy  E.  Newberry,  The  Amherst  Papyri,  1901, 
vol.  i,  pi.  I  A-L  and  pp.  9,  10. 

3ed.  The  JRamesseum,  Papyrus  (Berlin  10499)  formed  part  of  a 
lot  of  papyri  found  during  the  winter  of  1895-1896  near  the 
Ramesseum  during  excavations  by  Quibell  ;  handed  over  by  Petrie 
to  Alan  H.  Gardiner,  he  presented  it  to  the  Berlin  Museum.  On  the 
obverse  it  contains  the  beginning  of  the  Lamentations  of  the  Fellah, 
corresponding  throughout  with  the  Butler  Papyrus,  and  with  lines 
1-87,  130-146  of  the  Berlin  Papyrus  No,  2.     Its  existence  was 

43 


44  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

noticed  by  Alan  H.  Gardiner,  Fine  neue  Handschrift  des  Sinuhe- 
gedichtes,  in  the  Sitzungsberichte  of  the  Academy  of  Sciences  of  Berlin, 
1906,  pp.  142,  143,  pp.  1-2  of  the  separate  publication. 

It  has  been  published  in  facsimile  and  in  hieroglyphic  transcrip- 
tion in  Vogelsang-Gardiner,  die  Klagen  des  Bauern,  pi.  1,  \a-ibis, 
ihis.-a. 

4th.  The.  Butler  Papyrus  No.  627  (British  Museum,  10274  reverse). 
It  is  in  a  large  handwriting,  sufficiently  careful,  and  perhaps  of  the 
early  part  of  the  XVIIIth  dynasty.  It  is  more  developed  than  the 
two  ancient  manuscripts  of  Berlin,  and  it  has  in  addition  fifteen  lines 
of  introduction,  which  however  do  not  furnish  us  with  the  commence- 
ment of  the  story.  Part  of  it  has  been  published  in  Cursive  facsimile 
by  F.  LI.  Griffith,  Fragments  of  Old  Egyptian  Stories,  in  the  Pro- 
ceedings of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Archaeology,  1891-1892,  vol.  xiv, 
plates  1-iv.  By  combining  the  matter  supplied  us  in  these  four 
manuscripts  we  are  able  to  restore  the  text  almost  completely. 
Borchardt  has  sho-wniZeitschriftfiir  Jigyptische  Sprache,  vol.  xxvii, 
p.  12),  that  sundry  fragments,  placed  by  Lepsius  at  the  beginning  of 
the  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  4,  should  be  inserted  at  the  end  of  the  same 
papyrus,  when  they  provide  almost  the  end  of  the  story. 

The  subject  of  it  was  made  out  and  published  almost  simultane- 
ously by  Chabas  and  Goodwin.  Chabas  gave  a  translation  followed 
by  the  first  few  lines  in  his  memoir  Les  Papyrus  hiiratiques  de 
Berlin,  ricits  d'il  y  a  quatre  mille  ans,  Paris,  1863,  8vo,  pp.  5-36  ; 
cf.  (Euvres  diverses,  vol.  ii,  pp.  292  et  seq. 

Goodwin  merely  published  a  very  short  analysis  of  the  whole  in 
an  article  entitled  The  Story  of  Saneha,  An  Egyptian  Tale  of  Four 
Thousand  Years  Ago,  in  Frazer's  Magazine  (Feb.  15, 1865,  pp.  185-202), 
p.  188.  Chabas  used  only  the  Berlin  papyri  for  his  text,  Goodwin 
was  fortunate  enough  to  discover  the  Butler  Papyrus  at  the  British 
Museum,  and  he  inserted  an  analytical  translation  in  Chabas'  Melanges 
egyptologiques,  2nd  series,  Paris,  1864,  Benjamin  Duprat,  8vo,  pp. 
249-266,  which  afi'orded  Chabas  an  opportunity  (pp.  266-272)  of 
correcting  certain  details  of  his  own  translation  as  well  as  of  the 
English  version. 

Since  then  the  text  has  been  repeatedly  studied.  In  1877  I 
transcribed  and  translated  it  at  the  Collfege  de  France,  and  in  1893-4 
at  the  Ecole  des  Hautes-Etudes ;  and  it  was  the  beginning  of  this 
translation  that  appeared  in  the  first  three  editions  of  these  Tales. 
An  English  version  covering  those  parts  of  the  text  on  which  I  had 
already  worked  was  published  later  by.  F.  LI.  Griffith,  Fragments  of 
Old  Egyptian  Stories,  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society  of  Biblical 
Archmoiogy,  1891-1892,  vol.  xiv,  pp.  459-472. 

A  hieroglyphic  transcription  of  some  portions,  and  then  a  complete 
translation  of  the  whole,  has  been  given  in  German  by  Erman, 
^gyptische  Grammatik,  1st  Edition,  1899,  pp.  28*-37*  ;  Erman,  Aus 
den  Papyrus  der  Kiiniglichen  Museen,  Berlin,    Speeman,  1899,    pp. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF  THE   FELLAH  45 

46-53 ;  Erman,  ^gyptische  Ghrestomathie,  Berlin,  Reuther  and 
Richard,  1904,  pp.  11-19  and  6*-10*. 

A  version  somewhat  freely  translated  will  be  found  in  Flinders 
Petrie,  Egyptian  Tales,  1895,  vol.  i,  pp.  61-80. 

Finally  the  transcription  and  translation  of  the  whole  was  pub- 
lished in  German  in  1907  by  Vogelsang-Gardiner,  die  Klagen  des 
Bauern,  pp.  8-15. 

The  name  and  quality  of  the  two  principal  personages  of  this 
narrative  have  given  rise  to  numerous  researches.  Pleyte  read  that 
of  the  persecutor  as  Sati,  the  hunter  (Sur  qtcelqties  Groupes  hiero- 
glyphiques  in  Zeitschrift,  1869,  p.  82),  and  his  reading  was  long 
accepted.  In  1891  Griffith  deciphered  it  with  hesitation  as  Silti  or 
S4tenti  (Fragments  of  Old  Egyptian  Stories,  in  the  Proceedings 
1891-1892,  vol.  xiv,  p.  468,  note  3),  and  soon  after  Max  Miiller 
rendered  it  as  hamuiti,  the  carpenter,  the  artisan  (the  Story  of  the 
Feasant,  in  the  Froceedings  1892-1893,  vol.  xv,  pp.  343-344).  Schafer 
has  demonstrated  (Eine  kursive  Form  von  Dhwti,  in  Zeitschrift  1902-3, 
vol.  xl,  pp.  121-124)  that  it  was  not  a  term  for  a  trade  but  a  proper 
name,  Thotnakhuiti.  The  term  applied  to  the  plaintiflF,  Sokhiti,  has 
been  rendered  by  common  accord  as  peasant,  husbandman,  fellah,  and 
it  is  undoubtedly  the  meaning  it  bears  in  ordinary  texts.  It  appears 
to  me  that  the  context  here  indicates  that  it  should  be  considered  as 
an  ethnic  term.  The  sokhiti  of  the  tale  is  a  man  of  the  Sokhit  hamait, 
the  Oasit  of  natron,  and  by  way  of  abbreviation  I  translated  it  le 
Saunier  in  the  preceding  French  edition  of  these  stories.  To  avoid 
the  confusion  caused  in  the  minds  of  my  readers  by  this  too-literal 
translation,  I  now  revert  to  the  old  translation  oi  fellah. 

Like  the  preceding  story,  this  one  provides  us  with  abundance  of 
details  concerning  the  habits,  position,  and  sorrows  of  the  poorer 
folk.  The  resemblance  of  ancient  manners  and  customs  with  those 
of  to-day  is  shown  in  a  very  remarkable  degree ;  the  man  whom  a 
petty  village  functionary  has  robbed  of  an  ass  or  camel,  his  lamenta- 
tions and  futile  recriminations,  his  prolonged  waiting  at  the  door  of 
the  police  official  or  great  lord  whose  duty  it  is  supposed  to  be  to 
render  him  justice,  are  daily  experiences  for  any  one  who  has  lived 
outside  Cairo  or  Alexandria.  The  interminable  harangues  of  the 
ancient  fellah  are  actually  the  same  and  with  almost  the  same  hyper- 
boles as  those  of  the  fellah  of  to-day.  The  poor  wretch  considers  him- 
self obliged  to  make  fine  speeches  in  order  to  soften  the  judge,  and 
he  pours  forth  all  the  fine  words  and  powerful  imagery  his  imagination 
can  suggest,  often  without  pausing  to  think  of  their  meaning  or 
calculating  the  eflFect  they  will  produce.  The  difficulties  presented 
by  his  speeches  no  doubt  arose  from  the  same  cause  which  prevents 
a  European  understanding  a  fellah  when  he  lodges  a  complaint.  The 
incoherence  of  his  ideas  and  the  obscurity  of  his  language  were  due 
to  the  desire  to  speak  well,  and  his  want  of  practice  in  using  fine 
language.    It  seems  to  me  that  the  author  of  this  story  has  succeeded 


46  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

only  too  well  for  our  comprehension,  in  reproducing  this  somewhat 
comic  and  satirical  side  of  the  national  character. 

The  name  of  the  Pharaoh  Nabkaftriya,  and  the  local  setting  of  the 
story,  show  that  the  author  placed  his  hero  in  the  times  of  the 
Heracleopolitan  dynasties,  and  more  exactly  under  one  of  the  Khatifl, 
probably  the  second  of  the  name.  I  would  therefore  date  the  com- 
position to  the  first  Theban  period,  as  has  been  done  since  Chabas, 
and  rather  to  the  centuries  that  followed  the  Xllth  dynasty,  than  to 
the  Xllth  dynasty  itself ;  a  point  that  cannot  be  proved  without 
long  dissertation. 

There   was    once   a   man,   Khunianupu    by  name,   who 

was  a  fellah  of  the  Plain  of  Salt,"  and  he  had  a  wife  Nofirit 

by  name.^     This  fellah  said  to  this   his   wife,    "  Lo !    I   go 

down  to  Egypt  to  bring  back  bread '  from  thence  for  our 

children.     Go,  measure  me  the  corn  that  is  in  the  granary 

the  remainder  of  [this  year's]  corn."     Then  he  measured  for 

her  [eight]  bushels  of  corn.     This  fellah  said  to  this  his  wife, 

"  Behold  !  here  are  these  two  bushels  of  corn  for  thee  and  thy 

children,  but  of  these  six  bushels  of  com  make  me  bread  and 

beer  *  for  each  day  that  I  shall  be  on  the  journey."     When 

this  fellah  went  down  into  Egypt,  he  loaded  his  asses  with 

reeds,*  rushes,  natron,  salt,  wood  of  Uiti,^  acacia  from  the 

'  The  Plain  of  Salt  is  the  country  of  the  Wady  Natrfln,  to  the  west 
of  the  Delta,  and  north-east  of  Hnes. 

^  The  name  of  the  wife  is  damaged  at  the  beginning  :  if  the  two  signs 
that  remain  are  an  r  and  t,  there  is  some  probability  that  it  may  be 
read  Nofrlt  or  Nofrgt. 

'  This  must  not  be  taken  literally,  and  we  must  not  imagine  that  the 
man  intended  to  return  with  a  load  of  bread.  The  word  atku  was  used 
by  the  ancient  Egyptians  in  the  same  way  that  aish  is  employed  by 
modern  Egyptians,  to  express  all  kind  of  provisions  required  to  feed  a 
household. 

'  This  combination  explains  itself  when  we  understand  the  Egyptian 
method  of  making  beer.  They  used  the  crumb  of  stale  bread  in  place 
of  yeast.  Scenes  produced  in  bas-relief,  or  with  wooden  figures  in  the 
tombs  of  the  first  Theban  empire  and  of  the  Memphite  empire,  always 
combine  baking  and  brewing.  It  is  therefore  natural  that  the  fellah 
should  order  his  wife  to  make  both  bread  and  beer  with  the  corn  he 
gave  her. 

'  At  the  present  time  two  kinds  of  reed  are  still  exported  from  Wady 
Natrdn — sovmr  and  birdi,  which  are  used  to  make  mats.  Of  these  reeds 
the  best  quality  come  from  the  other  side  of  Wady  Natrfln,  from  Wady 
Maghara,  also  called  Wady  es-SumSra. 

*  This  name  is  incomplete  :  I  think  I  recognise  traces  of  the  name  of  the 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF   THE   FELLAH  47 

Country  of  the  Oxen,'  wolf  skins,  jackal  hides,^  sage,  onyx, 
maize,  colocynth,  coriander,  aniseed,  talc,  oUite,  wild  mint, 
grapes,  pigeons,  partridges,  quails,  anemones,  narcissus,  seed 
of  the  sun,  hairs  of  the  earth,  and  allspice,  complete  with  all 
the  good  products  of  the  Plain  of  Salt} 

When  therefore  the  fellah  had  gone  south  to  Khininnsuit  * 
and  had  arrived  at  the  place  called  Pafifi  to  the  north  of 
the  town  of  Madenit,*  he  met  a  man  who  was  on  the  bank, 
Thotnakhuiti  by  name,  son  of  a  person  Asari  by  name, 
both  of  them  serfs  of  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  mayor  of  the 
palace.  This  Thotnakhuiti,  as  soon  as  he  beheld  the  asses 
of  this  fellah,  being  astonished  at  heart,  said,  "May  every 
god  favour  me,  that  I  may  obtain  the  property  of  this  fellah." 
Now  the  dwelling  of  this  Thotnakhuiti  was  close  to  a  river- 
side path,  which  was  narrow,  not  ample,  so  much  so  that  it 
was  just  the  breadth  of  a  piece  of  linen,  with  the  water 
on  one  side  and  wheat  on  the  other.  This  Thotnakhuiti  said 
to  his  servant,  "  Hasten  and  bring  me  a  piece  of  cloth  from 
my  house."  It  was  brought  him,  and  he  spread  it  on 
the  pathway,  so  that  the  edge  touched  the  water  and 
the  fringe  touched  the  wheat.*     When  therefore  the  fellah 

oasis  of  Ulti,  preserved  in  that  of  the  village  of  Bauiti,  one  of  the  villages 
of  the  Northern  Oasis. 

'  The  Country  of  the  Oxen  is  the  Oasis  of  Farafrah. 

^  Jackal  skins  appear  to  have  been  exported  in  bunches  of  three,  as  one 
sees  them  in  the  hieroglyphic  sign  mos. 

'  The  names  of  these  minerals  and  seeds  are  still  very  uncertainly 
identified  with  modern  corresponding  terms.  I  give  a  translation  with  all 
reserve. 

*  Hakhininnsuit,  or  Hakhininnsulti  is  the  town  called  by  the  Assyrians 
Khininsu,  by  the  Hebrews  Khanes,  and  by  the  Copts  Hues  ;  the  modern 
Henassieh  or  Ahnes  el  Medineh. 

'  The  two  towns  of  Pafifi  and  Madenlt  are  otherwise  unknown  to  us. 
They  must  be  sought  for  between  Wady  Natrtin  and  Ahnes,  but  much 
nearer  that  town,  probably  at  the  entrance  to  the  Fayfim. 

'  The  course  of  the  story  gives  us  the  reason  for  these  preparations. 
Thotnakhutti,  in  barring  the  path,  hoped  to  force  the  peasant  to  take  the 
upper  side  of  the  way  close  to  the  field.  In  passing,  the  ass  might  snatch 
some  blades  of  wheat ;  Thotnakhutti  could  then  accuse  the  delinquent  and 
confiscate  the  animal.     At  the  present  day,  the  proprietor  of  a  field  is 


48  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

came  on  to  the  road  which  was  for  every  one,  this  Thotna- 

khuiti  said,  "  Be  so  good,^  fellah,  do  not  tread  on  my  linen." 

This  feUah  said,  "  To  do  as  thou  shalt  commend,  my  ways 

are  good."     As  he  turned  towards  the  higher  part,  Thotna- 

khuiti  said,  "  Is  my  corn  to  serve  as  thy  pathway,  fellah  ?  " 

This  fellah  said,  "  My  ways  are  good,  but  the  bank  is  high, 

the  roads  have  wheat,  thou  hast  barred  the  ways  with  thy 

linen,  wilt  thou  not   permit  me  to  pass  ?  "     While  he  was 

speaking  these  words  one  of  the  asses  took  a  mouthful  of 

stalks    of  wheat.      This   Thotnakhuiti  said,  "Behold  thou, 

since  thine  ass  eats  my  wheat,  I   shall   put  him  to  labour 

on  account  of  his  strength."      This  fellah  said,  "My  ways 

are    good.      To    avoid   trespass    I   led   my    ass   aside,    and 

now  thou  dost  seize  him  because  he  has  taken  a  mouthful 

of  stalks  of  wheat.     But  assuredly  I  know  the  owner  of  this 

domain,  who  is  the  High  Steward,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru ;  it  is 

he  of  a  certainty  who  drives  away  all  robbery  in  this  Entire 

Land,^   and    shall    I    be    robbed    in    his    domain  ? "      This 

Thotnakhuiti  said,  "  Is  not  that  a  true  proverb  that   men 

use,  '  The  name  of  the  poor  wretch  is  quoted   on  account 

of  his  master.'     It  is  I  who  speak  to  thee,  and  it  is  of  the 

Mayor  of  the  Palace,. Kensi,  son  of  Maru,  that  thou  thinkest."  ' 

He  thereupon  seized  a  green  branch  of  tamarisk  and  with 

it  he  beat  all  his  limbs,  and  he  then  took  away  his  asses 

and  led  them  into  his  domain.     This  fellah  wept  very  loud 

satisfied  with  cutting  off  an  ear  of  the  donkey ;  but  the  case  is  known 
where,  like  the  man  in  the  story,  he  seized  the  animal. 

'  The  words  Iri  haru,  translated  "  be  so  good,"  form  a  polite  phrase  by 
which  the  Egyptians  caUed  the  attention  of  their  comrades  or  of  passers- 
by  to  any  work  they  were  engaged  on,  or  any  matter  of  general  interest. 
It  is  the  equivalent  of  the  dmel  maaruf  or  amelni  el-maaruf  of  modern 
Egyptians. 

^  As  we  have  said,  the  Entire-Land  is  one  of  the  names  commonly 
given  to  Egypt  by  the  Egyptians  (of.  p.  4,  note  1). 

'  The  sentence  quoted  translated  literally  runs  thus,  "  Is  pronounced  the 
name  of  the  poor  wretch  for   his  master."     From  the  context  it  seems 
to  signify  that  he  who  considers  he  has  a  grievance  against  a  subordinate,  . 
is  not  satisfied  with  execrating  him,  but  immediately  attempts  to  appeal  to 
his  chief. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OP   THE   FELLAH  49 

for  grief  at  that  which  was  done  to  him,  and  this  Thotna- 
khuiti  said,  "Do  not  raise  thy  voice,  fellah,  or  thou  shalt 
go  to  the  city  of  the  god,  Lord  of  Silence."'  This  fellah 
said,  "  Thou  hast  beaten  me,  thou  hast  stolen  my  goods,  and 
now  thou  wouldst  take  away  lamentation  from  my  mouth. 
Divine  lord  of  silence,  grant  me  my  goods,  in  order  that 
I  may  not  call  out  thy  fear."  ^ 

This  fellah  passed  the  whole  of  four  days  bewailing  himself 
to  Thotnakhuiti,  but  he  did  not  lend  him  his  face.  When 
this  fellah  went  to  Khininnsuit  in  order  to  make  complaint  to 
the  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  he  found  him  as 
he  came  out  of  the  door  of  his  house  to  enter  the  cange  (Nile 
boat)  of  his  office.  This  fellah  said,  "  Oh,  permit  me  to  refresh 
thy  heart  with  my  discourse.^  It  is  an  occasion  to  send  m.e 
thy  servant,  the  intimate  one  of  thy  heart,  that  I  may  send 
him  back  to  thee  instructed  in  my  business."  The  Mayor 
of  the  Palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  caused  his  servant  to  go,  the 
intimate  of  his  heart,  the  one  first  after  himself,  and  this 
fellah  sent  him  back,  instructed  in  the  whole  of  his  business, 
such  as  it  was.  The  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Eensi,  son  of 
Maru,  informed  the  burghers  *  who  were  near  to  him  of  this 
Thotnakhuiti,  and  they  said  to  their  lord,  "  Verily,  this  comes 

'  The  reply  of  Thotnakhuiti  is  an  actual  threat  of  death.  The  Lord,  of 
Silence  is  Osiris,  god  of  the  other  world  ;  his  city  is  the  tomb.  Osiris,  in 
this  r61e,  had  as  an  equivalent  in  Thebes  a  goddess  who  bore  the  significant 
name  of  Marultsakro,  she  who  loves  silenoe. 

'  So  far  as  1  can  see,  this  expression,  too  concise  for  us,  seems  as  though 
it  should  be  paraphrased,  "  for  fear  that  I  should  go  everywhere  proclaiming 
that  thou  art  a  man  to  be  feared." 

^  The  beginning  of  the  discourse  recalls  the  formula  by  which  a  man  of 
lower  degree  begins  letters  addressed  to  his  superior  (Griffith,  Hieratic 
Papyri  from  Kahun,  p.  68). 

*  Personages  of  high  rank,  royal  functionaries  or  administrators  of 
nomes  and  villages  had  a  certain  number  of  burghers  associated  with  them 
who  assisted  them  in  carrying  out  their  functions — the  equivalent,  it 
appears,  of  the  cohors  of  young  men  who  accompanied  the  Eoman 
governors  in  their  provinces.  These  officials,  who  were  called  sdri/,  the 
mesJieilih  of  to-day,  the  burghers,  occasionally  had  deputies,  ntti  ma  sdru, 
who  are  often  mentioned  on  monuments  of  the  XIFth  dynasty  (cf.  Maspero, 
Melanc/es  de  Mythologie,  vol.  iv,  pp.  446,  447). 


50  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

from  his  peasant  to  whom  another  has  come,  for  behold  what 
they  do  to  their  peasants  when  others  come  to  them,  behold, 
this  is  just  what  they  do.^  Is  it  worth  while  to  prosecute 
this  Thotnakhuiti  for  the  matter  of  a  little  natron  and  a 
little  salt  ?  Let  him  be  told  to  give  it  back,  and  he  will 
give  it  back.^  The  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru, 
kept  silence  ;  he  did  not  reply  to  these  burghers,  he  did  not 
reply  to  this  fellah. 

When  this  fellah  came  to  make  his  complaint  for  the  first 
time  before  the  High  Steward,  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  he  said : 
"  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  my  lord,  great  of  the  great,  guide  of 
that  which  is,  and  of  that  which  is  not,  when  thou  descendest 
to  the  Pool  of  Justice  ^  and  thou  dost  sail  there  with  the  right 
wind,  may  the  sheet  of  thy  sail  not  tear  away,  may  thy  skiff 
not  drift  away,  may  no  ill  happen  to  thy  mast,  may  thy 
planks  not  be  cut,  mayest  thou  not  be  carried  off,  when  thou 
dost  arrive  at  the  land ;  may  the  wave  not  seize  thee,  mayest 
thou  not  taste  the  shriekings  of  the  river,  mayest  thou  not 

'  The  construction  of  these  phrases  is  somewhat  elliptical  in  the 
original,  and  the  meaning  is  not  clear.  The  literal  translation  would  be, 
"  Behold,  it  is  his  fellah  who  comes  to  another  besides  to  him ;  here  is  for 
thee  that  which  thev  do  to  their  fellahs  who  come  to  others  instead  of  to 
them,  here  is  for  thee  that  which  they  do."  The  burghers  appear  to 
suppose  that  the  fellah  had  regular  dealings  with  Thotnakhuiti,  that  he 
was  the  fellah  of  that  one,  that  he  provided  him  with  salt,  natron,  and 
other  products,  and  that  the  fellah  instead  of  coming  straight  to  his  patron 
according  to  custom  had  attempted  to  offer  his  wares  to  others.  Hence 
arose  this  incident,  which  was  merely  an  ordinary  quarrel  between  merchant 
and  customer. 

^  Literally,  "  Is  to  be  prosecuted  (rejected)  this  Thotnakhuiti,  for  a  little 
natron,  a  little  salt  ?  if  he  be  commanded  to  repay  him  that,  he  will 
repay  it  1  "  It  may  be  better  to  translate  the  verb  tuba  by  the  other 
meaning :  "  Let  him  be  commanded  to  return  it  and  he  will  return  it." 

'  The  Pool  of  Justice  is  the  name  of  one  of  the  canals  of  the  other 
world,  and  of  the  canal  of  this  world  that  passed  Khininnsuit.  The  fellah, 
playing  on  the  double  meaning  of  the  expression,  as  Griffith  has  remarked 
(Fragments  of  Old  Mgy2Jtian  Stories,  in  the  Proceedings,  vol.  xiv,  p.  468), 
wishes  a  prosperous  voyage  for  Eensi  both  on  the  terrestrial  and  the 
celestial  waters.  The  remainder  of  this  first  appeal  is  not  the  logical 
development  of  this  play  on  words  nor  of  the  metaphor  on  which  it  was 
founded. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF  THE  FELLAH  61 

behold  the  Terrible  of  Face  (the  crocodile),  but  may  the  most 
rebellious  fish  come  to  thee  and  mayest  thou  procure  well- 
fatted  birds.  As  it  is  thou  who  art  the  father  of  the  weak,  the 
husband  of  the  widow,  the  brother  of  the  divorced  woman,  the 
clothing  of  the  motherless,  cause  that  I  may  proclaim  thy 
name  in  this  country  as  the  head  of  aU  good  law.  Guide 
without  caprice,  great  without  pettiness,  thou  who  destroyest 
falsehood,  and  makest  truth  to  be,  come  to  the  voice  of  my 
mouth.  I  speak ;  listen,  do  justice,  praiseworthy,  whom  the 
most  praiseworthy  praise,  destroy  my  woes;  behold  I  am 
laden  with  grief,  lo !  I  am  in  despair,  judge  me,  for  behold 
I  am  in  great  need." 

Now  this  fellah  said  these  words  in  the  time  of  the  King 
of  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt,  Nabkauriya,  true  of  voice.  The 
Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  went  before  His 
Majesty,  and  he  said,  "  My  lord,  I  have  met  one  of  these  fellahs, 
who  are  in  truth  fine  speakers,  whose  goods  have  been  stolen 
fi-om  him  by  a  man  who  depends  on  me :  behold  he  comes 
to  make  his  complaint  to  me."  The  king  said,  "  Maruitensi, 
if  you  desire  to  keep  me  contented,  draw  him  out  at  full 
length;  answer  nothing  at  all  to  that  he  shall  say.  That 
which  he  shall  please  to  say  to  thee,  report  it  to  us  in 
writing  that  we  may  hear  it.  See  to  it  that  his  wife  and 
children  live,  send  one  of  these  fellahin  to  banish  want  from 
his  house,  and  cause  also  that  this  peasant  lives  in  his 
members,  but  when  thou  makest  him  a  gift  of  bread  see 
that  he  does  not  know  it  is  thou  who  givest  it."  Four 
loaves  and  two  jars  of  beer  were  served  to  him  each  day  ;  the 
Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  supplied  them,  but  he 
gave  them  to  one  of  his  clients,  and  it  was  he  who  gave 
them  to  the  other.  Behold,  the  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  " 
Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  sent  to  the  castellan  of  the  Oasis  of  Salt, 
so  that  bread  was  made  for  the  wife  of  the  peasant  in  the 
proportion  of  three  measures  each  day. 

This  fellah  came  to  make  his  complaint  for  the  second 


52  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

time,  saying :  "  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  my  lord,  great  of  the 
great,  rich  of  the  rich,  thou  who  art  greater  than  thy  great 
ones,  and  richer  than  thy  rich  ones,  rudder  of  heaven, 
support  of  the  earth,  cord  that  bears  the  heavy  weights  ; 
rudder  do  not  swerve,^  support  do  not  bend,  cord  do  not 
break  away.  For  the  great  lord  takes  of  her  who  has  no 
lord,^  he  despoils  him  who  is  alone.  Thy  allowance  in  thy 
house  is  a  jug  of  beer  and  three  loaves  [daily],  and  what 
dost  thou  give  to  feed  thy  clients  ?  Who  dies,  does  he  die 
with  his  people  ?  Art  thou  thyself  eternal  ?  ^  In  fact  it  is 
an  evil,  a  balance  that  bends,  a  lever  balance  that  loses  its 
steadiness,  a  just  integrity  that  deviates.  Oh  thou,  if  the 
justice  that  moves  beneath  thee  remove  from  its  place,  if 
the  burgher  commit  errors,  if  he  who  keeps  count  of  the 
speeches  [spoken  on  both  sides]  incline  to  one  side,  the 
menials  steal.  He  who  is  commissioned  to  seize  the  faithless 
one  who  does  not  keep  the  word  [of  the  judge]  in  strictness, 
himself  wanders  far  from  it  [the  word],  he  who  ought  to 
give  the  breath  [of  life]  is  without  it  on  earth,  he  who  is 
calm  pants  [with  wrath],  he  who  divides  into  just  portions 
is  only  a  prepotent,  he  who  represses  the  oppressor  com- 
mands him  to  ill-use  the  city  like  an  inundation,  he  who 
repels  evil  commits  faults." 

The  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  said,  "  Is  it 


'  Literally  "  judder  do  not  go  behind."  The  rudder  was  a  large  oar, 
worked  from  fore  to  aft.  If  it  were  displaced  by  the  current  or  by  a  mistake 
of  the  steersman,  so  that  it  turned  from  aft  to  fore,  it  would  lose  control  of 
the  ship's  course ;  hence  the  metaphor  in  the  text.  Swerve  is  merely  a 
more  or  less  free  translation. 

^  The  widow  or  the  rejected  woman  who  had  no  man  to  protect 
her. 

'  This  development,  which  appears  to  us  slightly  disconnected,  seems  to 
signify  that  the  master  is  wrong  to  despoil  the  defenceless,  for  his  needs 
are  so  small,  and  he  spends  so  little  on  feeding  his  clients,  that  it  is  not 
necessary  for  him  to  accumulate  riches  at  the  expense  of  others.  Also 
when  he  dies,  does  he  carefully  take  with  him  all  the  attendants  he  has  to 
provide  for  ?  and  does  the  master  consider  himself  eternal,  that  he  should 
perpetually  plan  to  increase  his  wealth  ? 


THE  LAMENTATIONS  OE*  THE  FELLAH  5^ 

then  so  important  a  matter  for  thee  and  bo  close  to  thy  heart 
that  my  servant  ^  should  be  seized  ?  " 

This  fellah  said :  "  When  the  measurer  of  grain  takes  by 
violence  for  himself,  he  causes  another  to  lose  his  property. 
He  who  guides  [to  the  observance  of]  the  law,  if  he  command 
that  one  shall  rob,  who  then  will  repel  crime?  He  who 
should  crush  error,  if  he  himself  wander  from  equity,  has 
another  the  right  to  give  way  ?  If  another  is  approved  for 
misdeeds,  how  shalt  thou  find  the  means  to  subdue  the 
misdeeds  [of  others]?  When  the  wealthy  man  comes  to 
the  place  that  he  occupied  yesterday,  it  is  an  order  to  do 
to  others  as  they  have  caused  to  be  done,  to  honour  others 
for  what  they  have  done,  it  is  to  administer  riches  wisely 
instead  of  squandering  them,  it  is  to  assign  property  to  those 
who  already  possess  wealth."  Oh  the  moment  that  destroys, 
when  all  shall  be  destroyed  in  thy  vineyards,  when  thy 
poultry  yard  shall  be  destroyed  and  thy  water-fowl  shaU  be 
decimated,  when  he  who  sees  shall  become  blind,  and  he 
who  hears  becomes  deaf,  when  he  who  leads  the  way 
shall  become  him  who  misleads !  .  .  .  Art  thou  indeed 
sound  ?  Act  for  thyself,  for  thou  art  very  powerful ;  thine 
arm  is  valiant,  thy  heart  is  bold,  indulgence  is  far  from 
thee,  the  prayer  of  the  wretched  is  thy  destruction,  thou 
seemest  the  messenger  of  the  crocodile  god.  Thou  art  the 
travelling  companion  of  the  Lady  of  Pestilence :  if  thou  art 
not,  she  is  not ;  if  she  is  not,  thou  art  not ;  that  which  she 


'  The  servant  of  whom  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  speaks  is  Thotnakhuiti,  whose 
punishment  is  demanded  by  the  fellah. 

'  The  jingle  of  words  with  which  this  sentence  begins  merely  signifies 
that  if  a  wealthy  man  is  reinstated  in  the  position  he  had  vacated,  it  is 
to  encourage  him  to  continue  to  act  as  well  as  he  had  done  during  his 
previous  period  of  office.  It  is  hoped,  in  fact,  that  being  rich  already,  he 
will  have  no  need  to  pillage  the  country  to  enrich  himself,  and  that  he  will 
administer  the  public  wealth  honestly.  Thus  he  considers  that  Kensi, 
honest  himself,  did  not  know  how  to  insist  on  honesty  in  his  subordinates, 
and  would  end  by  being  their  victim  and  coming  to  ruin,  as  is  said  in  the 
sentence  that  follows. 
9 


64  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

does  not  do,  thou  dost  not  do.'  When  a  rich  strong  man 
with  lawful  revenues  is  against  a  beggar,  he  who  is  firmly 
in  possession  of  his  spoils  against  one  who  has  no  possessions ; 
if  the  beggar  is  despoiled  of  his  property  it  is  an  evil  busi- 
ness for  him  who  is  not  deprived  of  all,  he  has  no  means  of 
complaining  of  it,  for  he  has  sought  it  (his  fate).  But  thou, 
thou  art  satiated  with  thy  bread,  thou  art  drunken  with  thy 
beer,  thou  art  richer  than  all  the  living.  When  the  face  of 
the  steersman  is  turned  backward  ^  the  boat  wanders  where 
it  pleases.  When  the  king  is  in  the  harem,  and  the  rudder 
(of  state)  is  in  thy  hand,  and  there  are  abuses  around  thee, 
lamentation  is  abundant,  ruin  is  heavy.  "  What  matter  ?  " 
they  say.  Make  places  of  refuge,  for  thy  embankment  is 
sound,  and  behold,  thy  city  is  well  surrounded  with  walls  ; ' 
thou  whose  tongue  is  right,  do  not  err,  for  the  worm, 
destroyer  of  man,  is  but  his  own  members !  *  Speak  not 
falsehood,  heed  well  the  burghers,  the  vassals  and  the 
servants,  to  speak  lies  is  their  hay  (perquisite)  and  a  tradition 
that  is  very  near  their  hearts.  Thou  who  knowest  the 
property  of  all  people,  art  thou  ignorant  of  my  fortune  ?  Oh 
thou  who  reducest  to  nought  all  accident  by  water,  I  am 
here  where  there  is  no  landing !  Oh  thou  who  leadest  back 
to  earth  whosoever  is  drowning  and  who  savest  the  ship- 
wrecked, I  am  oppressed  by  order  of  thine." 

This  feUah  came  to  make  his  complaint  for  the  third  time, 

'  The  crocodile  god  is  either  Sovku  or  Set-Typhon,  and  the  lady  of  pesti- 
lence is  Sokhlt-Sakhmit.  I  gather  that  the  fellah  points  out  to  Rensi 
that  he  is  powerful  and  should  deal  rigorously  with  those  who  commit 
injustice  under  his  protection,  after  the  fashion  of  those  two  divinities. 

2  Instead  of  observing  the  river  and  the  direction  of  the  currents  and 
wind. 

'  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  in  justice,  desired  that  the  poor  should  have  an  asylum 
in  him  against  violence ;  the  dyke  he  had  metaphorically  constructed  to 
oppose  the  torrent  of  injustice  was  in  good  condition,  but  is  it  possible 
that  the  man  of  righteous  judgments  should  at  last  swerve  and  become  an 
oppressor  ? 

'  The  members  of  a  great  lord  are  his  vassals  and  attendants,  as  the 
members  of  E§.  are  the  lesser  gods ;  the  great  lord  is  destroyed  by  the 
faults  of  his  members  rather  than  by  his  own. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF  THE  FELLAH  65 

saying :  "  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  my  lord,  thou  art  Ea,  lord  of 
heaven,  with  thy  court,  and  it  is  the  interest  of  all  the  world. 
Thou  art  like  a  wave  of  inundation,  thou  art  the  Nile  which 
makes  the  fields  green,  that  seizes  the  isles  and  cultivated 
lands.  Repress  robbery,  protect  the  wretched,  be  not  as  a 
flood  to  those  who  complain  [to  thee],  but  beware  that 
eternity  approaches,  and  let  it  please  thee  that  there  be 
[for  thee]  that  which  is  spoken,  '  It  is  breath  to  the  nose  to 
do  justice.'  *  Punish  him  who  has  punished,  and  that  will 
not  be  placed  to  thy  account.  Does  the  spring  bend,  does 
the  balance  turn  to  one  side,  is  not  Thoth  indulgent?  If 
thou  dost  commit  errors,  thou  makest  thyself  equal  with 
those  three. ^  If  those  three  are  indulgent,  be  thou  also 
indulgent  and  do  not  reward  good  as  though  it  were  evil, 
or  put  the  last  in  the  place  of  the  first.  The  word  grows 
more  than  living  herbage,  more  than  a  smell  ;  do  not  reply 
to  it,  for  when  the  water  comes  that  clothes  the  fields,  let 
it  do  so.^  When  thou  art  steering  with  the  sail  up,  work 
with  the  cm-rent ;  in  order  to  do  this  rightly,  beware  that 
thou  mancEuvrest  well  the  tiller  when  thou  art  facing  the 
land.*     Do  not  lie,  thou  art  greatness ;    be  not  light,  thou 

'  Transcribed  from  Egyptian  phraseology  into  modern  expressions,  this 
sentence  signifies  that  to  be  just  assures  life  in  the  presence  of  the  king 
and  the  gods ;  to  do  to  the  evil-doer  the  same  as  he  himself  has  done,  is 
not  recorded  as  a  crime  on  the  part  of  those  who  administer  the  punish- 
ment. 

^  Literally  "  Thou  art  placed  the  second  of  these  three ; "  in  other  words, 
"  thou  dost  become  a  spring  badly  balanced,  a  false  balance,  a  Thoth 
indulgent  when  he  should  not  be." 

'  As  far  as  I  can  understand  it,  the  word,  that  is  the  sentence  or  equit- 
able command  given  by  the  superior,  is  efficacious  in  proportion  to  the 
rigour  of  those  who  respond,  that  is,  who  are  responsible  for  its  execution. 
It  is  like  the  water  that  imparts  vigour  to  the  vestments  of  the  just  word, 
i.e.  that  renders  them  clean  and  intact  during  the  whole  of  the  time  that 
it  acts  in  such  a  manner  as  to  obtain  this  result. 

*  This  figure  is  borrowed  from  incidents  in  the  navigation  of  the  Nile. 
When  the  wind  is  contrary,  the  pilot  steers  almost  in  zigzags,  going  from 
one  side  to  the  other  and  making  a  little  way  each  time.  In  this  manoeuvre 
there  is  a  dangerous  moment,  when  the  prow  of  the  boat  is  near  one  of 
the  banks,  dqait  niti  tau,  "  facing  the  land,"  as  the  text  says,  and  the 


66  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

art  weightiness ;  do  not  lie ;  thou  art  the  steel-yard,  do  not 

lose  equilibrium ;  thou  art  the  accurate  reckoning ;  oh  thou, 

thou  art  in  accord  with  the  lever,  so  that  if  it  yields,  thou 

also  dost  yield.     Do  not  swerve  when  thou  art  steering,  but 

manoeuvre  well  the  rope.     Take  nothing  when  thou  shalt  go 

against  him  who  takes,  for  he  is  not  a  great  one,  that  great 

one  who  is  rapacious.     Thy  tongue  is  the  spring  of  a  balance 

and  thy  heart  is  the  weight  and  thy  two  lips  are  its  arms.    If 

thou  veilest  thy  face  from  him  whose  countenance  is  hard,* 

who  then  will  subdue  evil  ?    Oh  thou,  thou  art  like  a  wicked 

rapacious  launderer  who  treats  a  friend  with  harshness  and 

rejects  a  client  who  is  poor,  but  who  holds  as  a  brother  him 

who  comes  and  brings  him  [what  is  due].     Oh  thou,  thou 

art  the   ferryman   who  ferries  him  only  who  possesses   the 

amount  of  the   toll,  and   of  whom  the   toll  is  the  ruin  [of 

others].     Oh  thou,  thou  art  the  chief  of  the  gi'anary,  who 

dost   not   permit   him  to   go  free   who  comes  with    empty 

hands.     Oh  thou,  thou  art  for  men  a  bird  of  prey  who  lives 

on  the  miserable  little  birds.     Oh  thou,  thou  art  the  cook 

whose  joy  it  is  to  kill  and  from  whom  there  is  ^o  escape. 

Oh  thou,  thou  art  the  shepherd  who  troubles  himself  not 

at  all ;  thou  hast  not  reckoned  how  many  [of  thy  beasts]  thou 

dost  lose  by  the  crocodile,  that  violator  of  places  of  refuge, 

who  attacks  the  district  of  the  Entire  Land.^     Oh,  auditor 

who  hast  not  heard,  why  wilt  thou  not  hear,  since  here  I 

have  repelled  a  furious  one  with  whom  there  is  a  crocodile  ? 

When  shall  that  be  done  ?    He  who  hides  the  truth  is  always 

direction  has  to  be  altered.  If  the  helm  is  not  put  over  at  the  right 
instant,  the  boat  runs  the  risk  of  being  shattered  on  the  bank. 

'  In  other  words,  "  If  thou  settlest  thyself  complacently  so  as  not  to  see 
what  the  powerful  do  to  the  weak." 

^  The  fellah  here  alludes  to  an  incident  of  rural  life  that  is  often 
represented  in  tombs  of  the  Memphite  age — the  crossing  of  a  ford  by  a 
herd  of  cattle  (cf.  pp.  265-268  of  this  volume)  menaced  by  crocodiles ;  the 
careless  herdsman,  instead  of  watching  over  his  animals,  lets  them  go,  and 
on  coming  out  of  the  water  does  not  trouble  to  find  out  whether  the 
number  of  the  cattle  is  still  intact  or  whether  the  crocodiles  have 
reduced  it. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF  THE  FELLAH  57 

discovered,  and  the  lie  is  hurled  to  the  ground.  Do  not 
rely  on  the  morrow  which  is  not  yet  come ;  it  is  not  known 
what  ills  there  are  in  it." 

After  the  fellah  had  made  this  oration  to  the  Mayor  of 
the  Palace,  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  on  the  esplanade  which  is 
before  the  gate,  he  dispatched  two  men  of  his  clan  to  him 
with  kurbashes,  and  they  beat  all  his  limbs. 

This  fellah  said :  "  The  son  of  Maru,  he  deviates  indeed  ; 
his  face  is  blind  to  that  which  he  sees,  he  is  deaf  to  that 
which  he  hears,  he  passes  regardless  of  that  of  which  he  is 
reminded.  Oh  thou,  thou  art  like  a  city  that  has  no 
commander,  like  a  community  that  has  no  chief,  like  a  boat 
that  has  no  captain,  like  a  caravan  without  a  leader.  Oh 
thou,  thou  art  like  a  ghafir  who  steals,  like  a  sheikh-el-Beled 
that  takes,  like  the  chief  of  a  district  appointed  to  punish 
brigandage,  and  who  puts  himself  at  the  head  of  those  who 
commit  it." 

When  the  peasant  came  to  make  his  complaint  for  the 
fourth  time,  he  found  the  Mayor  of  the  Palace  as  he  was 
coming  out  of  the  gate  of  the  temple  of  Harshafi,  and  he 
said :  ''  Oh  blessed  one,  mayest  thou  be  the  blessed  of 
Harshafi,  who  comes  from  his  temple,  when  good  perishes 
and  there  is  none  to  boast  that  he  hath  destroyed  falsehood 
on  the  earth.  And  in  truth  the  ferry-boat  which  you  are 
made  to  enter  and  on  which  you  cross  the  river,  when  the 
season  of  low  water  comes,  to  cross  the  river  on  foot,  is  it 
not  a  good  way  to  cross  ?  And  who  sleeps  in  full  daylight  ? 
He  destroys  [by  that  means],  going  [in  safety]  during  the 
night,  and  travelling  [without  danger]  by  day,  and  [the 
possibility  that]  the  individual  may  verily  profit  by  his  good 
fortune.  Oh  thou,  one  must  not  cease  from  telling  thee  if 
indulgence  departs  from  thee,  the  prayer  of  the  wretched  is 
thy  destruction.*  Thou  art  like  a  huntsman,  light  of  heart, 
bold  to  do  that  which  pleases  thee,  to  harpoon  the  hippo- 
'  See  the  same  remark  on  p.  53. 


58  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

potamus,  to  transfix  wild  bulls  with  arrows,  to  strike  fish 
[with  the  bident],'  to  net  birds.  Oh  thou  who  hast  not 
the  ready  mouth,  and  who  art  without  a  flow  of  words,  thou 
who  hast  not  a  light  heart,  but  whose  bosom  is  heavy  with 
projects,  apply  thou  thy  heart  to  know  the  truth,  subdue 
thy  [evil]  inclination  until  the  silent  one  arrives.^  Be 
not  the  [unskilful]  inquisitor  who  destroys  perfection,  nor 
a  rapid  heart  [which  fails]  when  truth  is  brought  to  it,  but 
cause  that  thy  two  eyes  perceive,  that  thine  heart  is  satisfied, 
and  trouble  not  thyself  doubting  of  thy  power  '  for  fear  that 
misfortmie  overtake  thee ;  he  who  j)asses  by  his  fortune 
[without  seizing  it]  will  be  [always]  in  the  second  rank. 
The  man  who  eats,  tastes ;  he  who  is  questioned,  replies ; 
he  who  is  in  bed,  dreams ;  but  make  no  opposition  to  the 
judge  at  the  gate  *  when  he  is  at  the  head  of  the  male- 
factors ;  [for  thanks  to  him]  if  imbecile,  thou  dost  prosper, 
if  ignorant  of  everything,  thou  art  consulted,  if  thou  art 
like  a  flow  of  water  that  diverges,  thou  canst  enter.  Oh 
helmsman,  misdirect  not  thy  boat;  thou  who  grantest  life, 
cause  not  to  die;  thou  who  canst  destroy,  cause  not  that 
one  should  be  destroyed.  Luminous  one,  be  not  as  a  shadow ; 
place  of  refuge,  permit  not  the  crocodile  to  carry  off  [his 
victims,  on  account  of  thee].  These  four  times  I  have 
lamented  to  thee:  has  not  time  enough  been  spent  over 
that  ?  " 


'  Only  the  fishermen  by  profession  and  the  peasants  fished  with  a  line, 
an  eel-pot  or  a  net ;  as  one  sees  them  on  the  pictures  of  the  Theban  and 
Memphite  tombs,  nobles  caught  fish  with  a  single-  or  double-pronged 
harpoon.  Fishing  carried  on  thus  required  considerable  strength  and 
skill,  comparable  with  hunting  the  hippopotamus. 

^  Here  I  believe  the  silent  one  is  Osiris,  god  of  the  dead,  or  some  other 
divinity  (of.  p.  49,  note  1  of  this  volume). 

•  Literally,  "  Do  not  trouble  thyself  on  account  of  power."  He  who 
doubts  his  power,  and  fears  he  is  not  sufficiently  strong,  accomplishes 
nothing. 

'  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  in  Egypt,  as  in  the  whole  of  the  ancient 
East,  the  prince  and  notables  administered  justice  at  the  gate  of  their  house 
or  of  the  city. 


60  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

equitably,  be  not  rapacious  * ;  thou  who  consolest,  do  not 
cause  rancour  ;  thou  who  healest,  do  not  cause  maladies ;  for 
the  delinquent  diminishes  truth;  he  who  well  fulfils  [his 
duties]  does  not  injure,  does  not  overpower  truth.  If  thou 
hast  revenues,  give  of  them  to  thy  brother,  that  he  may 
share  them  without  legal  proceedings  [brought  against  him], 
for  he  who  has  rancour  is  a  guide  to  discord,  and  he  who 
relates  his  griefs  in  a  whisper  leads  to  schisms,  without 
its  having  been  known  what  was  in  his  heart.''  Therefore 
be  not  inactive  in  proclaiming  thy  intention ;  for  who 
restrains  the  emission  of  water?  Lo,  the  water  gates  are 
open,  the  water  must  flow;  if  the  bark  enter  therein  it  is 
seized  [by  the  current],  its  cargo  perishes  on  the  ground 
[scattered]  on  all  the  banks.'  lliou  art  instructed,  thou  art 
well  set  up,  thou  art  established  soUdly  and  not  by  violence ; 
but  while  thou  dost  establish  regulations  for  all  men,  those 
that  are  about  thee  wander  from  the  straight  road.  Equitable 
[at  times]  and  culpable  towards  the  Entire  Land,  gardener 
of  misery,  who  irrigates   his  land  with  villainies  that  his 


'  Rensi  being  just,  divides  the  goods  of  his  subordinates  exactly  into 
two  halves,  and  only  takes  the  moiety  due  to  him.  The  feUah  implores  him 
not  to  show  himself  rapacious  and  not  to  keep  the  whole. 

'  The  comparison  here  is  between  gain  acquired  by  illegal  means,  and 
legitimate  gains,  those  which  are  brought — anu — to  the  owner,  or  which 
the  owner  himself  procures.  The  fellah  counsels  Rensi  to  give  "  bis 
brother,"  that  is  to  say  his  neighbour,  that  which  he  procures  from  his 
domains,  part  of  his  legitimate  revenues,  because  to  keep  them  for  himself, 
to  eat  them — uagait — as  the  text  says  is  incorrect,  inappropriate,  impolitic  ; 
the  poor  man  to  whom  nothing  is  given  becomes  rancorous — ahu — and 
he  "  leads  to  separate,"  he  conduces  to  discord,  and  he  who  tells  his  woes 
in  a  whisper,  "  he  who  makes  known " — sarkhi — causes  schisms  without 
his  sentiments  being  suspected. 

'  The  sequence  of  ideas  is  not  easy  to  follow ;  this  is  how  I  read  it. 
After  having  pointed  out  how  dangerous  it  is  for  a  man  in  the  position 
of  Rensi  to  arouse  concealed  rancour,  the  fellah,  reverting  to  his  own 
business,  implores  him  to  repress  injustice.  If  he  wished  to  do  so,  who 
would  dare  to  resist  him  openly  t  His  action  would  be  like  that  of  a 
current  of  water  formed  by  a  breach  in  a.  dyke,  when  the  inundation  is 
at  its  height ;  boats  caught  in  the  current  are  wrecked  and  their  crews 
scattered  along  the  banks. 


THE    LAMENTATIONS    OF   THE   FELLAH  59 

This  fellah  went  to  make  his  complaint  the  fifth  time, 
saying  :  "  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  my  lord, 
the  fisherman  with  the  eel-pot  cages  his  fish,  the  fisherman 
with  the  knife  cuts  the  throat  of  the  eel,  the  fisherman  with 
the  trident  harpoons  the  bayyads,  the  fishermen  with  the  sweep 
nets  take  the  chals,'  in  short  the  fishermen  depopulate  the 
river.  Oh  thou,  thou  art  of  their  kind ;  do  not  ravish  his 
property  from  a  poor  wretch,  for  thou  knowest  the  weak. 
His  goods  are  the  vital  air  of  the  poor  man,  to  ravish  them 
fi:om  him  is  to  stop  up  his  nose.  Thou  hast  been  com- 
missioned to  listen  to  speech,  to  judge  between  two  parties, 
to  repress  robbery ;  and  lo  !  the  malefactor  is  with  thee,  it  is 
a  heavy  burden  of  robberies,  which  thou  dost  bear.  One 
has  made  thee  a  favourite,^  and  thou  art  become  a  criminal ; 
thou  hast  been  given  as  a  dyke  to  the  wretched  to  prevent 
his  drowning,  and  lo  !  thou  art  a  man  similar  to  a  pool  that 
fills  rapidly."  3 

This  fellah  came  to  make  his  complaint  the  sixth  time, 
saying :  "  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  my  lord, 
silent  lord,*  who  punishes  lies  and  causes  justice  to  be,  makes 
good  to  be ;  destroys  evil,  as  satiety  that  ends  hunger, 
clothing  that  ends  nakedness,  as  the  sky  clears  after  the  north 
wind  and  its  heat  warms  all  those  who  were  cold,  as  fire  cooks 
what  is  raw,  as  water  quenches  thirst.  Oh  thou  who  be- 
holdest  do  not  [turn  away]  thy  face ;  ^  thou  who  dost  distribute 

''  The  names  of  fish  given  here  are  all  uncertain  equivalents  of  the 
Egyptian  names,  of  which  we  do  not  know  the  exact  value ;  the  hayydd 
and  the  cJidl  are  two  Nile  fish  that  are  excellent  to  eat,  especially 
the  first. 

'  One  here  means  Pharaoh  who  has  Rensi,  son  of  Maru,  for  his  mayor 
of  the  palace. 

'  The  water  in  consequence  washes  away  the  dyke,  ruining  the  field  that 
the  dyke  was  intended  to  protect. 

'  Eensi  is  called  son  of  Maru,  "  silent  lord,"  because  he  does  not  reply 
to  the  lamentations  of  the  fellah. 

*  The  scribe  has  here  missed  a  word  owing  to  its  assonance ;  me  haru 
liaru-k.  The  fellah  implores  Eensi  son  of  Maru  who,  seeing  all,  can 
remedy  all,  not  to  turn  his  face  from  him  and  leave  him  in  misery. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF   THE   FELLAH  61 

land  may  become  a  land  of  falsehood,  to  disseminate  crimes 
on  the  soil." 

This  fellah  went  to  make  his  complaint  for  the  seventh  time, 
saying  :  "  Mayor  of  the  Palace,  my  lord,  thou  art  the  rudder 
of  the  Entire  Land,  who  navigates  the  world  at  thy  pleasure  ; 
thou  art  the  second  Thoth,*  who  when  he  judges  inclines 
not  to  one  side.  Oh  my  lord,  may  it  please  thee  to  permit 
an  individual  to  appeal  [at  the  tribunal]  for  the  rights  to 
which  he  is  entitled.  Restrain  not  thy  heart;  it  is  not 
in  thy  nature  that  from  greatness  of  spirit  thou  shouldst 
become  narrow  of  heart.^  Be  not  preoccupied  with  that 
which  does  not  yet  happen,  and  rejoice  not  at  that  which 
has  not  yet  come.  As  the  impartial  man  is  great  in 
friendship,  he  regards  as  nothing  the  deed  that  is  done 
by  one  who  knew  not  what  was  the  intention  at  the  bottom 
of  his  heart.'  He  who  diminishes  the  law,  and  destroys 
the  reckoning  [of  human  actions],  he  is  a  miserable  wretch 
who  lives  when  he  has  robbed,  and  truth  no  longer  answers 
him.*  But  my  bosom  is  full,  my  heart  is  charged,  and  that 
which  issues  from  my  bosom  in  consequence  is  like  the 
breaking  of  a  dyke  from  which  water  flows ;  my  mouth  opens 
to  speech,  I  have  striven  [to  stop  up]  my  breach,  I  have 
thrown  out  my  current,  I  have  cast  forth  that  which  was  in 
my  bosom,  I  have  washed  my  rags,  my  speech  has  come 
forth,  and  my  misery  is  complete  before  thee.  What  is 
thy   final    opinion  ?      Thy    inertia    will    injure    thee,   thy 

'  Literally :  "  Thou  art  the  second  of  Thoth,"  or  perhaps  "  Thou  art  the 
brother  of  Thoth,"  the  god  who  acts  the  part  of  scribe  at  the  judgment  of 
souls. 

'  Literally  :  "  It  is  not  to  thee  that,  to  become  the  wide  of  face,  a  narrow 
of  heart." 

'  Literally :  "  Being  the  impartial,  he  makes  himself  wide  in  friendship, 
he  destroys  action  which  is  produced,  it  not  being  known  that  which  was 
in  the  heart." 

*  The  virtues  we  regard  as  abstractions,  truth  and  justice,  were 
goddesses  of  the  Egyptians ;  and  it  is  therefore  not  surprising  to  find  that 
the  terms  applied  to  them  are  those  employed  for  living  people.  We 
should  say  here,  "  Truth  is  no  longer  known  to  him." 


62  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

rapacity  will  render  thee  imbecile,  thy  avidity  will  make 
thee  enemies.  But  where  wilt  thou  find  another  fellah 
such  as  I?  Would  he  not  be  an  idler  who,  bringing  his 
complaint,  should  stand  at  the  door  of  his  house  ?  '  There 
will  be  no  silent  one  whom  thou  hast  made  to  speak, 
there  will  be  no  slumberer  whom  thou  hast  awakened,  there 
will  be  no  timid  one  whom  thou  hast  made  bold,^  there 
will  be  no  dumb  man  whose  mouth  thou  hast  opened, 
there  will  be  no  ignorant  one  whom  thoa  hast  changed 
to  a  learned  one,  there  will  be  no  stupid  one  whom  thou 
hast  instructed.  These  are  destroyers  of  evil,  the  notables 
[who  surround  thee]  these  are  lords  of  good,  these  are 
artisans  who  produce  [all]  that  exists,  replacers  of  severed 
heads." ' 

This  fellah  came  to  make  his  complaint  for  the  eighth 
time,  saying :  "  Mayor  of  the  palace,  my  lord,  since  one 
falls  by  deed  of  violence,  since  rapacity  has  no  fortune  [or 
rather]  that  its  fortune  is  useless,  since  thou  art  violent 
when  it  is  not  thy  nature  to  be  so,  and  since  thou  robbest 
when  it  is  useless  to  thee,  leave  people  in  possession  of 
their  good  fortune.  Thou  hast  what  is  needful  for  thee 
in  thy  house,  thy  belly  is  full,  but  the  shock  of  wheat 
overflows,^  and  that  which  comes  out  of  it  perishes  on  the 
soil,  for  the  notables  pillage,  ravishing  by  force ;  they  who 
are  set  to  repulse  crime,  and  who  are  the  protection  of 
the  persecuted,  the  cruel  ones  who  are  set  to  repulse  false- 
hood. Fear  of  thee  has  prevented  me  from  supplicating  thee 
[rightly],  and  thou  hast  not  understood  my  heart.    Oh,  silent 


'  Instead  of  coming  daily  to  the  gate  of  tiie  palace,  as  our  fellah  does. 

'  Literally  :  "  There  will  be  no  restraint  of  face  that  thou  hast  provided 
[with  face]." 

'  Cf.  above,  pp.  33,  34,  the  story  of  the  magician  Didi,  who  replaced 
several  heads.  The  expression  replacers  of  severed  lieads  appears  to  be  the 
stock  phrase  to  designate  the  most  learned  of  the  learned. 

*  Literally,  "it  dances."  The  word  used  is  employed  to  designate  the 
various  kinds  of  dances  depicted  on  the  walls  of  Memphite  mastabas. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OP  THE  TELLAH  63 

one,^  he  wlio  turns  to  make  his  objurgations  to  thee,  he 
fears  not  to  present  them,  and  it  is  not  his  brother  who 
brings  them  to  thee  in  thy  private  dwelling.  Thou  hast 
portions  of  land  in  the  country,  thou  hast  revenues  in  the 
town,  thou  hast  thy  bread  at  the  storehouses/  the  notables 
bring  thee  gifts,  and  thou  takest  [more  ?].  Art  thou  not  a 
robber,  because  when  one  presents  himself  with  his  rent  for 
thee,  there  are  pillagers  with  thee  to  deduct  half  of  the 
rentage-in-kind  of  the  lands  ? '  Do  truth  to  the  lord  of  truth, 
whose  truth  is  the  [real]  truth.*  Thou  the  calamus,  the 
papyrus  roll,  the  palette,  the  god  Thoth,  beware  of  making 
errors  [of  justice]  ;  good,  be  good,  truly  good,  be  good  ! 
because  truth  is  for  eternity,  it  descends  into  Hades  with 
him  who  practises  it.  When  he  has  been  placed  in  the  coffin 
and  laid  in  the  ground,  his  name  has  not  been  effaced 
from  the  earth,  and  he  is  remembered  for  his  goodness,  in 
consequence  of  the  word  of  the  god.^  It  is  in  truth  that 
the  lever  has  not  bent,  the  balance  has  not  inclined  to 
one  side.  And  yet  when  I  come  to  thee,  when  another 
comes,  do  not  answer  as  if  it  were  a  silent  one  whom  thou 
dost  answer,  do  not  attack  one  who  does  not  attack  thee,  for 

'  Here  again  Rensi  is  referred  to  by  this  epithet  for  the  same  reason 
given  above,  p.  59,  note  4. 

*  The  word  faqau  designates  the  revenues  drawn  by  Rensi  from 
his  city  property,  houses,  shops  or  factories  ;  dq^au,  literally  loaves, 
includes  in  itself  the  emoluments  in  kind  that  he  received  from  the 
royal  storehouses  as  a  state  official. 

'  Literally  :  "for  the  halves  of  the  rented  lands."  It  seems,  according  to 
the  custom  of  Ancient  Egypt,  that  the  state,  the  towns,  or  the  wealthy 
proprietors  rented  the  lands  belonging  to  them  to  the  peasants  for  a 
rental  of  half  the  products  of  the  soil. 

*  The  lord  of  truth  or  of  justice  is  Thoth  ;  the  truth  of  the  lord  of  truth  is 
verity  and  justice,  such  as  Thoth  exercises,  and  the  truth  of  truth  and  the 
justi-ce  of  justice  we  should  call  the  quintessence  of  truth  and  justice. 

'  Literally,  "  reckoning  of  the  speech  of  the  god."  Thoth,  scribe  of  the 
Osirian  tribunal  (cf.  above,  p.  61,  note  1),  noted  down  the  indications 
of  the  balance  at  the  weighing  of  deeds,  and  proclaimed  the  result  in 
a  speech ;  according  to  his  report  the  dead  man  was  either  admitted  to 
Paradise  or  excluded,  and  his  name  remained  either  of  good  or  evil  savour 
on  earth," 


64  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

thou  hast  not  been  injured,  thou  hast  not  sufifered,  thou 
hast  not  fled,  thou  hast  not  suppressed  [evil],  thou  hast  not 
shown  on  my  behalf  the  conduct  that  corresponds  with 
that  excellent  sajring  that  issued  from  the  mouth  of  Ra 
himself :  ^  '  Speak  the  truth,  do  the  truth,  do  that  which 
conforms  to  truth,  because  truth  is  powerful,  because  it 
is  great,  because  it  is  lasting,  and  when  its  parts  are 
found  it  leads  to  a  blessed  state  of  existence.'  If  the 
balance  bend  not,  if  its  scales  carry  objects  [at  the  same 
level]  the  results  of  the  true  reckoning  will  not  be  felt 
[against  me].  Shame  will  not  come  behind  me  in  the  city 
and  will  not  land." 

This  fellah  came  to  make  his  complaint  for  the  ninth 
time,  saying,  "Mayor  of  the  palace,  my  lord,  the  balance 
of  people  is  their  tongue,  and  it  is  the  balance  that  verifies 
reckonings.^  When  therefore  thou  dost  punish  those  who 
have  done  wrong  the  reckoning  is  audited  in  thy  favour.' 
[On  the  contrary,  he  who  makes  a  compact  with]  falsehood, 
his  portion  [henceforth]  is  that  truth  turns  away  from  him, 
for  then  his  good  is  falsehood,  and  truth  does  not  concern 
itself  for  him.*  But  when  the  lie  goes  out  it  loses  its 
way ;  it  does  not  cross  the  water  in  the  ferry-boat ;  it  is 
not  [received].'     If  he  be  wealthy  he  has  no  children ;  he 

'  Xiterally :  "Thou  hast  not  given  me  the  equivalents  of  that  saying." 
The  peasant  wished  by  this  to  say  that  Rensi  had  not  acted  towards  him 
as  he  would  have  done  had  he  t,aken  into  consideration  the  aphorism  placed 
by  tradition  in  the  mouth  of  ES. 

^  It  is  by  their  tongue  that  the  value  of  men  is  judged,  and,  on  the  other 
band,  it  is  by  weighing  their  words  that  one  ascertains  whether  the  judg- 
ment that  has  been  formed  of  them  is  correct. 

'  Literally  "  the  reckoning  is  equalised  to  thee."  In  other  words,  at  the 
judgment  of  the  dead  the  punishment  inflicted  by  Eensi  on  a  criminal  will 
not  be  imputed  to  him  as  a  sin,  or  rather  it  will  not  appear  in  the  list  of 
evil  actions. 

'  The  beginning  of  this  sentence  translates  literally  "  his  portion  becomes 
that  truth  turns  away  in  front  of  him."  The  end  of  it  is  difficult  to  read, 
and  I  have  confined  myself  to  giving  the  general  meaning  as  I  take  it  to 
be,  without  attempting  an  exact  translation. 

•  This,  I  believe,  is  an  allusion  to  the  ferry-boat  which  carried  over  the 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF   THE   FELLAH  65 

has  no  posterity  on  earth.'  If  he  travels  he  does  not  reach 
the  land,  and  his  boat  does  not  come  into  port  at  his  city.^ 
Therefore  do  not  make  thyself  heavy,  for  already  thou 
art  no  small  weight ;  do  not  rush,  for  already  thou  art  not 
light  in  running ' ;  do  not  cry  aloud,  be  not  an  egoist,*  veil 
not  thy  face  from  that  thou  knowest,  close  not  thine  eyes 
to  that  thou  hast  seen,  turn  not  away  from  him  who  begs 
of  thee.  If  thou  fallest  into  idleness,  use  is  made  of  thy 
conduct  against  thee.^  Act  therefore  against  him  who  has 
acted  against  thee.  Hearken  not  to  every  one,  but  sentence 
a  man  only  for  the  deed  that  he  has  verily  committed. 
There  is  no  yesterday  for  the  idle*;  there  is  no  friend 
for  him  who  is  deaf  to  the  truth;  there  is  no  happiness 
for  the  violent.  [On  the  other  hand],  he  who  protests 
becomes  wretched,  and  the  wretched  man  passes  into  a 
condition  of  [perpetual]  plaintiff,  [and  the  plaintiff]  is  slain. 

doubles  from  this  world  to  the  domain  of  Osiris.  He  who  does  not  exercise 
justice  and  truth  will  not  be  admitted,  after  death,  to  dwell  with  the  god. 

'  Having  no  posterity,  no  one  will  trouble  to  perform  the  funerary  cult 
for  him ;  his  soul  will  be  consigned  to  oblivion,  and  will  in  consequence 
cease  to  exist. 

^  The  term  saqdudn,  here  employed  for  navigation,  is  that  applied  to 
the  journey  of  the  Sun  round  the  world  during  the  day  and  night;  the 
dead  man  will  not  be  admitted  to  follow  the  god,  and  his  boat  will  perish 
before  arriving  at  the  celestial  port  where  he  desires  to  land. 

'  Literally,  "  be  not  heavy,  thou  art  not  light ;  walk  not  heavily,  thou 
dost  not  run."  If  1  understand  this  sentence  aright,  it  means  that  the 
peasant  recommends'  Bensi  not  to  treat  his  subordinates  brutally. 
He  has  no  need  to  press  them,  or  to  use  force  with  them ;  he  already 
presses  them  down,  and  his  personality  is  so  weighty  that  there  is  no  need 
for  him  to  aggravate  the  harm  he  unconsciously  causes  them  by  the 
exercise  of  his  natural  course  of  action. 

*  Literally,  "  do  not  listen  to  thy  heart."  To  listen  to  tJte  heart  both  in 
Coptic  and  in  the  ancient  language  means  to  oiey ;  here  I  think  we  must 
give  it  a  slightly  different  meaning — to  listen  to  oneself,  to  listen  only  to 
oneself,  to  be  egoistic. 

'  Literally,  "If  thou  fallest  into  idleness,  report  is  made  of  thy 
concept,  of  thy  conduct." 

"  From  'the  context  this  phrase  appears  to  me  to  signify  that  the 
idle — it  might  perhaps  be  better  translated  indifferent — man  cannot 
expect  gratitude,  because  he  has  done  no  good  to  others  in  the  past, 
yesterday,  as  the  text  says. 


66  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Oh  thou,  T  have  made  complaint  to  thee,  and  thou  hast  not 
listened  to  my  pleading  ;  I  go  to  complain  of  thee  to  Anubis." ' 
The  mayor  of  the  palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  sent  two  men 
of  his  clan  to  cause  the  fellah  to  retxu-n.     This  fellah  therefore 
feared  that  the  mayor  did  thus  in  order  to  punish  him  for 
this  speech  he  had  made,  and  this  fellah  said,  "  To  repel  the 
thirsty  from  the  water,  to  remove  the  mouth  of  the  babe  from 
the  milk,  to  intercept  him  who  wishes  to  see  Him  [the  god], 
all  that  causes  his  death  to  come  to  him  slowly  .  .  ."  ^     The 
mayor  of  the  palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  said,  "  Fear  nothing, 
fellah.    I  will  act  towards  thee  as  thou  dost  act  towards  me." 
This  fellah  said,  "  Oh  that  I  might  live,  eating  thy  bread 
and  drinking  thy  beer,  eternally  !  "    The  mayor  of  the  palace, 
Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  said,  "  Come  then,  that  thou  mayest  hear 
thy  complaints."     He  then  caused  to  be  set  down  on  a  sheet 
of  new  papyrus  all  the  lamentations  of  the  fellah  unto  this 
day.    The  mayor  of  the  palace,  Eensi,  son  of  Maru,  sent  them 
to  His  Majesty  the  King  of  the  two  Egypts,  Nabkauriya,  true 
of  voice,  and  this  was  agreeable  to  him  more  than  all  things 
that  are  in  this  Entire  Land,  and  His  Majesty  said,  "  Judge 
for  thyself,  son  of  Maru."     The  mayor  of  the  palace,  Eensi, 
son  of  Maru,  forthwith  commanded  two  men  of  his  clan  to 
fetch  the  clerk  of  the  records,  and  he  sent  a  message  to  the 
Natron  Oasis,  that  his  people  to  the  number  of  six  should  be 
brought   to  him,  over   and  above  the  slaves   [he  possessed 
already],   with  corn  of  the  south,  durah,  asses,  with  [good 
things  of  all  sorts.    He  commanded]  Thotnakhuiti  [to  restore] 
to  this  peasant  [his  asses  with]  all  his  goods  that  he  had 
taken  from  him.  .  .  . 

'  As  Vogelsang  has  truly  observed,  the  fellah  in  desperation  now  thinks 
of  carrying  his  appeal  into  the  other  world,  to  the  gods  of  the  dead  (die 
Klagen  des  Bauern,  p.  16,  note  2).  Can  this  mean  that  he  will  kill 
himself  ?  The  word  samamu  employed  above  applies  rather  to  assassination 
or  execution.  The  fellah  evidently  fears  that  Eensi,  annoyed  and  wearied 
with  his  appeals,  will  rid  himself  of  him  by  one  or  other  of  these  methods. 

'  The  reply  of  the  fellah  is  so  frequently  interrupted  by  lacunae  that  it 
is  impossible  for  me  to  be  sure  of  the  meaning. 


THE   LAMENTATIONS   OF  THE   FELLAH  67 

The  end  is  missing,  and  it  is  difficult  to  say  whether  the  fine 
speeches  to  which  the  fellah  was  addicted  were  not  continued  at 
some  considerable  length,  this  time  to  extol  Pharaoh  and  to  thank 
Kensi,  son  of  Maru,  for  his  justice.  The  fellah  of  to-day  never  ceases 
to  speak  when  his  interest  is  involved  or  his  cupidity  is  satisfied. 
The  man  we  have  just  disposed  of  was  fully  as  long-winded,  and 
would  have  no  difiiculty  in  evolving  as  many  more  fine  speeches  as 
he  had  already  uttered.  I  fear  that  my  readers,  if  they  have  had 
the  patience  to  read  to  the  end  of  his  harangues,  have  experienced 
no  more  pleasure  in  perusing  them  than  I  have  had  in  setting  forth 
the  translation.  Have  they  always  been  able  to  appreciate  the 
details  1  The  conceptions  of  the  Egyptians  rarely  correspond  with 
ours,  and  they  would  combine  several  in  one  expression  that  we  are 
unable  to  disentangle.  They  had  only  one  word  for  truth  and  for 
justice,  for  falsehood  and  for  evil,  for  personal  idleness  and  for  in- 
difiference  to  the  acts  and  interests  of  others  ;  while  on  the  contrary 
the  author  renders  the  variety  of  physical  and  moral  ills  by  a  variety 
of  terms  for  which  I  have  not  succeeded  in  finding  equivalents,  I 
have  been  forced  to  paraphrase  rigorously  those  passages  that  a 
modern,  unversed  in  Egyptology,  would  not  have  understood  had 
I  transcribed  them  literally.  The  general  meaning  is  there  ;  it 
remains  for  others  to  scrutinise  the  several  phrases  minutely  and 
extract  from  them  the  subtle  shades  of  thought  and  of  language  by 
which  they  charmed  the  Egyptians. 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF  SINUHIT 

The  memoirs  of  SinuMt  appear  to  have  been  held  in  high  estimation 
in  the  literary  circles  of  Pharaonic  Egypt,  for  they  were  frequently 
copied  either  in  whole  or  in  part,  and  we  still  possess  the  remains  of 
three  manuscripts  which  contained  them  complete — the  Berlin 
Papyrus  No.  1,  to  which  the  fragments  of  the  Amherst  Papyrus 
belong,  the  Golenischeff  Papyrus  and  the  JRamesseum  Papyrus  No.  1 
at  Berlin  (Berlin  3022). 

The  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  1,  bought  by  Lepsius  in  Egypt,  and 
inserted  by  him  in  the  Denkmdler  aus  jEgypten  und  ^thiopien, 
vi,  pi.  104-107,  is  imperfect  at  the  beginning.  It  has  been  published 
in  photographic  facsimile  with  a  hieroglj'phic  transcription  by 
Alan  H.  Gardiner,  die  Erzahlung  des  Sinuhe  und  die  Hirtengeschichte, 
in  Erman,  Hieratische  Texte  des  Mittleren  Reiches,  8vo,  Leipzig,  1909, 
vol.  ii,  pi.  5-15.  In  its  present  state  it  contains  three  hundred  and 
eleven  lines  of  text.  The  hundred  and  seventy-nine  lines  of  the 
commencement  are  vertical ;  followed  immediately  by  ninety-six 
horizontal  lines  (180-276) ;  but  from  line  two  hundred  and  seventy- 
seven  to  the  end  the  scribe  has  reverted  to  the  system  of  vertical 
columns.  The  first  forty  lines  of  the  part  that  has  survived  have 
suffered  more  or  less  from  wear  and  tear  ;  some  of  them  (lines  1,  13, 
15,  38)  have  lacunae  that  I  should  have  been  unable  to  fill  in,  had 
I  not  been  fortunate  enough  to  discover  another  copy  at  Thebes. 
The  end  is  intact  and  closes  with  the  well-known  formula  :  It  has 
come  from  its  beginning  to  its  end,  as  it  has  been  found  in  the  book. 
The  writing,  which  is  very  good  and  bold  in  the  vertical  portions, 
becomes  thick  and  confused  in  the  horizontal  lines,  and  full  of 
ligatures  and  cursive  forms,  which  in  places  render  decipherment 
difficult.  Some  scraps  of  the  parts  that  are  missing  at  the  beginning 
have  been  found  among  fragments  belonging  to  the  collection  of  the 
late  Lord  Amherst  of  Hackney.  They  have  been  published  in 
hieroglyphic  'transcription  by  F.  LI.  Griffith,  Fragments  of  Old 
Egyptian  Stories  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Society  of  Biblical 
Archaeology,  1891-1892,  vol.  xiv,  pp.  452-454,  and  later  in  facsimile 
by  P.  Newberry  in  Amherst  Papyri,  1901,  vol.  i,  pi.  i,  m-q,  and 
pp,  9, 10.  According  to  G.  MoUer,  Hieratische  Palceographie,  part  I, 
pp.  14,  15,  and  also  according  to  Alan  H.  Gardiner,  die  Klagen  des 

68 


THE   MEMOIRS   OP   SINUHIT  69 

Bauem,  pp.  5,  6,  and  die  ErzaJdung  des  Sinuhe,  p.  5,  it  was  written 
during  the  second  half  of  the  Xllth  dynasty  or  the  first  half  of  the 
Xlllth  ;  certain  details,  among  others  the  corruption  of  the  royal 
name,  appear  to  me  to  indicate  a  somewhat  later  period  of  the 
Xlllth  dynasty. 

The  GoUnischeff  Papyrus  consists  of  the  very  mutilated  remains  of 
four  pages.  The  first  thirteen  lines  of  p.  1  contained  the  beginning 
of  the  text,  which  is  missing  from  the  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  1.  The 
fragments  that  still  remain  of  this  page  and  of  the  pages  following 
belonged  to  that  portion  of  the  narrative  that  extends  from  line  1 
to  line  66  of  the  Berlin  Papyrus.  It  has  not  been  edited,  but 
M.  Gol6nischeff  was  good  enough  to  send  me  photographs  and  a 
hieroglyphic  transcription,  that  I  published  in  G.  Maspero,  Les 
Mimoires  de  Sinouhit  (forming  vol.  i  of  the  Bihliotheque  d'Etude 
1906,  pp.  32,  33,  and  which  helped  me  to  reconstitute  the  text.  The 
script  is  the  good  hieratic  of  the  XlXth  and  XXth  dynasties. 

The  Berlin  Papyrus  has  been  analysed  and  translated  into  French 
by  Chabas,  Les  Papyrus  de  Berlin,  rdcits  d'il  y  a  quatre  mille  ans, 
pp.  37-51,  and  Bihliotheque  Universelle,  1870,  vol.  ii,  p.  174  in  part 
only  (cf.  (Euvres  diverses,  vol.  iv,  pp.  254-255). 

Mr,  Goodwin  gave  an  English  version  of  the  whole  in  Frazer's 
Magazine,  1865,  under  the  title  The  Story  of  Saneha,  pp.  185-202, 
then  in  a  pamphlet.  The  Story  of  Saneha,  an  Egyptian  Tale  of 
Four  Thousand  Years  ago,  translated  from  the  Hieratic  text  by 
Charles  Wycliffe  Goodwin,  M.A.  (Reprinted  from  Frazer's  Magazine, 
London,  Williams  &  Norgate,  1866,  8vo,  46  pp.).  This  translation 
was  corrected  by  the  author  himself  in  Zeitschrift,  1872,  pp.  10-24, 
and  reproduced  in  full  in  the  Records  of  the  Past,  first  series,  voL  vi, 
pp.  131-150,  with  a  rather  arbitrary  division  of  the  lines. 

A  second  French  translation  is  one  given  under  the  title  Le 
Papyrus  de  Berlin  No.  1,  transcribed,  translated,  and  commented  on, 
by  G.  Maspero  (Cours  au  College  de  France,  1874-1876),  in  Milanges 
d'ArcMologie  dgyptienne  et  assyrienne,  vol.  iii,  pp.  68-82,  140  et  seq. ; 
reproduced  partly,  with  corrections,  in  Histoire  ancienne  des  peuples  de 
I'Orient,  sixth  edition,  pp.  115-116,  121-124. 

Finally  Henry  Daniel  Haigh  examined  the  historical  and  geo- 
graphical bearings  of  this  document  in  a  special  article  of  Zeitschrift, 
1875,  pp.  78-107,  and  Erman  inserted  a  short  German  analysis  of 
it  in  his  book  JEgypten  und  jEgyptisches  Lehen  in  Altertum, 
1885-1888,  pp.  494-497.  The  RaTnesseum  Papyrus  No.  1  contained 
obverse  a  complete  copy  of  the  Memoirs  of  Sinuhit,  but  we  only 
possess  about  twenty  pages  more  or  less  damaged.  The  first 
represent  a  hundred  and  four  horizontal  lines,  which  correspond 
with  the  complete  text  of  the  Cairo  Ostracon,  27419,  of  which  we 
shall  speak  later,  to  the  OoUnischefi  Papyrus,  to  the  fragments  of  the 
Amherst  Papyrus,  and  to  lines  1-77  of  the  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  1. 
After  this  beginning  there  remains  only  one  page  which  is  almost 
10 


70  STORIES   OP   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

intact,  with  the  ends  of  the  lines  that  belonged  to  two  pages  on  the 
right  and  the  left ;  there,  with  many  lacunae,  can  be  read  the  story 
of  the  duel  between  Sinuhit  and  the  brave  man  of  Tonu,  of  lines 
131-145  of  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  1.  The  discovery  of  this  was 
announced  by  Alan  H.  Gardiner,  Eine  neue  Ha/ndschrift  des 
Sinuhegediehtes,  in  the  Sitzungsherichte  of  the  Academy  of  Sciences 
of  Berlin,  1907,  pp.  142-150,  published  separately  in  an  octavo  of  nine 
pages.  The  text  of  it  has  been  published  in  facsimile,  with  a 
hieroglyphic  transcription,  by  Alan  H.  Gardiner,  die  Erzdhlung  des 
Sinuhe  und  die  Hirtengeschichte,  pi.  1-4. 

Beside  the  editions  on  papyrus  we  possess  copies  of  two  con- 
siderable portions  from  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  the  narrative 
on  ostraca  two  of  which  were  recently  published  by  A.  H.  Gardiner 
in  Recueil  de  Travaux,  1892.  The  earliest  known  of  them  is  at  the 
British  Museum  with  the  number  5629.  It  was  first  mentioned  by 
Birch  in  his  Memoir  on  the  Abbott  Papyrus  (French  translation  by 
Chabas  in  Revue  archSlogiqu£,tl858,  p.  264 ;  cf.  (Euvres  diverses,  vol.  i, 
p.  284) ;  and  published  in  facsimile  in  Inscriptions  in  the  Hieratic 
and  Demotic  Characters,  from,  the  Collections  of  the  British  Museum,, 
folio,  London,  mdccclxviii,  pi.  xxiii,  and  p.  8. 

Lauth  translated  it  in  Die  zweialteste  Landkarte  nebst  Grdberpldnen 
(extract  from  the  Sitzungsherichte  of  the  Academy  of  Munich,  1871, 
pp.  233-236),  but  the  identity  of  the  text  it  contains  with  the  text  of 
lines  300-310  of  the  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  1,  was  discovered  by  Goodwin, 
On  a  Hieratic  Inscription  upon  a  Stone  in  the  British  Museum,  in 
Zeitschrift,  1872,  pp.  20-24,  where  the  text  is  given  at  fuU  length. 
The  writing  is  of  the  XlXth  and  XXth  djoiasties,  the  same  as  that 
of  the  Golenischejf  Papyrus.  As  the  version  it  bears  diflfers  in 
certain  details  from  that  of  the  Berlin  Papyrus,  it  is  worth  while 
to  give  a  complete  translation  of  it  here. 

\_A  pyramid  was"]  constructed  [for  me'\  in  stone — in  the  circle  of  the 
pyramids. — l^he  dressers  of  stone  dressed  the  tomb — arid  devised  the 
walls  of  it; — the  draughtsmen  drew  there — the  chief  of  the  sculptors 
carved  there, — the  chief  of  the  works  which  are  done  at  the  necropolis 
travelled  the  country  \_for']  all  the  furnishing— with  which  I  beautified 
the  tomb. — /  assigned  peasants  to  it, — and  it  had  domains  and  fields 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  city — as  is  done  with  Friends  of  the  first 
rank. — [There  was]  a  statue  of  gold  with  a  loincloth  of  silver  gilt, — 
which  the  sons  of  the  King  made  for  me,  r^oicing  to  do  that  for 
Tne  \—for  I  was  in  favour  with  the  King, — until  the  day  arrived 
that  I  landed  on  the  other  bank. 

It  is  happily  finished  in  peace. 

Another  ostracon  which  is  at  the  Cairo  Museum  was  found  on 
February  6,  1886,  in  the  tomb  of  Sannozmu,  at  Thebes.  It  is  a  piece 
of  Kmestone,  broken  in  two,  one  metre  in  length,  with  a  medium 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  71 

height  of  twenty  centimetres,  covered  with  rather  large  hieratic 
characters  punctuated  with'  red  ink,  and  divided  into  paragraphs, 
as  is  the  case  with  most  manuscripts  of  the  Eamesside  period.  On 
the  back  two  lines,  which  unfortunately  are  almost  illegible,  contain 
a  name  I  have  not  succeeded  in  deciphering — probably  the  name  of 
the  scribe  who  wrote  the  text.  The  break  is  not  a  recent  one.  The 
limestone  was  broken  when  it  was  placed  in  the  tomb,  and  the 
breakage  was  not  accomplished  without  damage;  several  chips  of 
the  stone  have  disappeared,  and  have  carried  off  fragments  of  words 
with  them.  Most  of  the  la,cun8e  can  be  filled  in  without  difficulty. 
The  text  is  very  incorrect,  like  most  works  intended  for  the  use  of 
the  dead.  Many  variants  on  it  arise  from  imperfect  reading  of  the 
original  manuscript ;  the  scribe  was  unable  to  read  accurately  the 
archaic  writing  and  transcribed  it  by  guesswork.  The  ostracon  was 
published  for  the  first  time  with  a  hieroglyphic  transcription  and 
French  translation  by  G.  Maspero,  Les  premieres  lignes  des  Mdmoires 
de  SinouMt,  restitutes  d'apres  I'Ostracon  27419  du  Musie  deBovlaq, 
veith  two  plates,  of  facsimile,  in  Memoires  de  I'Institut  Egyptien, 
4to,  vol.  ii,  pp.  1-23  ;  published  separately,  4to,  with  special  title  and 
mention,  Bulak,  1886,  reproduced  in  Etudes  de  Mythologie  et 
d' Archiologie  6gyptiennes,  vol.  iv,  pp.  281-305. 

Since  then  it  has  been  described  and  published  in  facsimile  in  the 
Catalogue  Oiniral  du  Musie  du  Gaire,  by  G.  Daressy,  Ostraca,  4to, 
1901,  pi.  xli,  pp.  46,  47,  where  it  bears  the  new  number  25218. 

The  complete  text  of  the  Memoires,  reconstituted  for  the  first  time 
twenty  years  ago  in  the  second  edition  of  these  Stories,  has  since  been 
translated  into  English.    See  : 

W.  M.  Flinders  Petrie,  Egyptian  Tales,  1895,  London,  12mo,  vol.  i, 
pp.  97-142. 

F.  LI.  Griffith,  Egyptian  Literature  in  Specimen  Pages  of  a 
Library  of  the  World's  Best  Literature,  1898,  New  York,  4to, 
pp.  5238-5249. 

Translated  into  German  by  : 

A.  Erman,  Aus  den  Papyrus  den  Kiiniglichen  Museen,  1899,  Berlin, 
8vo,  pp.  14-29,  who  has  also  introduced  a  hieroglyph  transcription  of 
several  passages  into  his  JEgyptische  Granvmatik,  1st  edition,  1894, 
pp.  17,  18,  and  in  his  jEgyptische  Chrestomathie,  1904,  pp.  1-11. 

A.  Wiedemann,  Altdgyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  8vo,  Leipzig, 
1906,  pp.  34-57. 

Alan  H.  Gardiner,  die  Erzdhlung  des  Sinuhe  und  die  Hirten- 
geschichte,  folio,  Leipzig,  1909,  pp.  9-15. 

Almost  at  the  same  time  as  the  appearance  of  this  volume, 
Gardiner  made  a  translation  into  English  with  critical  notes,  running 
commentary  and  text  of  the  new  ostraca,  contributed  by  him  to  the 
Eecueil  des  Travaux  (1910,  vol.  xxxii,  pp.  1-28,  214-2.30;  1911,  vol. 
xxxiii,  pp.  67-94,  etc.),  with  the  title  Notes  on  the  Story  of  Sinuhe, 
and  published  separately  by  Champion,  4to,  Paris. 


72  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Finally  a  critical  edition  of  the  text  with  introduction  and  glossary 
has  been  attempted  by  G.  Maspero,  Les  Mdmoiref  de  Sinuhtt  (forms 
vol.  i  of  the  Bihliotheque  d Etude),  1908,  4to,  Cairo,  pp.  51-184. 

The  discovery  of  the  first  lines  has  enabled  us  to  reconstitute  the 
route  taken  by  Sinuhit  in  his  flight.  He  left  the  camp  established 
in  the  Libyan  region  in  the  country  of  the  Timihu,  or  in  other  words, 
he  started  from  some  point  on  the  western  desert,  crossed  the  canal 
Mautti,  the  canal  of  the  two  Truths,  i.e.  that  part  of  the  Bahr 
Yusflf  which  crosses  the  entrance  to  the  Faydm  and  rejoins  the  Wile 
near  Terraneh,  passing  the  foot  of  the  mountain.  He  reached  the 
valley  near  a  locality  called  Nuhit,  The  sycamore.  According  to 
Brugsch  (Dictionnaire  gdographique,  p.  53),  Nuhlt  should  be  the 
Panaho  of  the  Copts,  the  Athribis  of  the  Greeks,  and  Benha-el-Assal 
of  to-day.  This  identification  fails  a  pric/ri,  as  Nuhit  is  mentioned 
at  the  beginning  of  the  journey,  i.e.  on  the  west  side  of  the  Nile, 
while  Benha  is  on  the  east  bank.  At  first  I  considered  The  sycamore 
as  an  appellation  intended  for  the  whole  of  Egypt,  but  for  a  long  time 
a  Nuhlt  or  Pa-nabit-nuhit  has  been  known,  which  appears  at  first 
to  have  been  a  village  in  the  vicinity  of  Memphis,  but  the  name 
of  which  was  at  last  attached  to  Memphis  itself  (Brugsch,  Diction- 
naire giographique,  pp.  330-332).  The  sycamore  is  probably  that 
Quarter  of  the  Sycamore  consecrated  to  Hathor  in  all  localities  where 
a  sacred  sycamore  existed  ;  it  is-poasible  that  the  name  of  the  hero^ 
.?m?/Afi^  signified  the  son_of  the  goddess  Sycamore,  analogous  with 
Sihaithor  the  son  of  Hathor.  From  Nuhit  the  story  of  the  flight 
leads  him  to  Shi-Sanafrut  or  Al-Sanafrui.  The  lake  Sanafrui  or 
the  island  Sanafrui  is  not  known  elsewhere,  but  Brugsch  connects 
it  with  the  nome  Myekphoris  of  Herodotus  (iii,  clxvi),  on  the 
strength  of  the  pronunciation  Mui-hik- Snofru,  which,  he  says,  is 
borne  by  the  signs  of  which  the  name  is  composed  (Diet,  geog., 
p.  54).  The  position  in  the  itinerary  occupied  by  this  place  leads 
me  to  look  for  it  between  the  Libyan  desert,  Memphis,  and  the  Nile, 
about  a  day's  march  from  the  town  of  Nagaft,  perhaps  in  the  vicinity 
of  the  pyramids  of  Gizeh  or  Abu-Roteh.  In  the  evening  Sinuhit 
crossed  the  Nile  near  Nagau,  probably  at  Embabeh,  and  resumed 
his  route,  passing  the  district  of  laUku  on  the  east.  This  is  the 
country  of  stone-cutters,  the  region  of  the  quarries  that  extend  from 
Turah  to  the  desert,  along  the  Gebel  Ahmar,  the  red  mountain,  and 
we  may  perhaps  take  it  that  the  place  called  Harult-nabit-Duti- 
doshir,  "  the  goddess  Firmament,  lady  of  the  Red  Mountain,"  is  more 
especially  the  point  of  the  Gebel-Giyuchi.  From  there  Sinuhit 
proceeded  on  foot  to  one  of  the  fortified  posts  that  protected  Egypt 
on  that  side,  between  Abu-Zabel  and  Belbeis,  but  farther  on  he  only 
mentions  Puteni  and  QamuSri.  Brugsch  identifies  Puteni  with  a 
country  of  P^t,  which  he  met  with  on  a  monument  of  the  Saite 
period,  and  of  which  the  town  of  Belbeis  indicates  the  centre  (Diet. 
g6og.,  pp.  54,  55).     The  great  Ptolemaic  stela  discovered  by  M.  Naville 


THE   MEMOIRS   OP   SINUHIT  73 

at  Tell-el-Maskhuta  furnished  several  points  that  aid  in  determining 
the  exact  position  of  Qamulri.  A  name  Qamuir  occurs  on  it, 
which  has  been  identified  by  M.  Naville,  not  unreasonably,  with  the 
Qamulri  of  the  Memoirs  of  Sinuhit  {The  Store-City  of  Pithom  and 
the  Route  of  the  JExodus,  pp.  21,  22).  Here  Ptolemy  Philadelphus 
constructed  the  town  that  he  called  Arsinoe  after  his  sister,  and 
which  became  one  of  the  store-cities  of  the  commerce  of  Egypt 
with  the  Red  Sea.  M.  Naville  places  Arsinoe,  and  in  consequence 
Qamueri,  near  El-MaghfAr,  at  the  base  of  the  ancient  Gulf  of  Suez. 
This  site  fits  in  well  with  the  narrative ;  after  leaving  Puteni,  Sinuhit 
would  plunge  into  the  desert,  towards  the  north-east,  and  would  lose 
himself  among  the  sand,  in  attempting  to  reach  Qamulri. 

From  this  point,  the  localities  he  crossed  and  those  in  which  he 
dwelt  have  been  studied  by  Maspero  {Notes  sur  qitelques  points  de 
Grammaire  et  dHistoire,  in  the  Recueil,  vol.  xvii,  p.  142),  and  by 
Isidore  Levy  {Lotanu-Lotdn,  in  Sphinx,  voL  ix,  pp.  76-86),  who 
agree  in  placing  them  in  the  Sinaitic  desert.  To  begin  with,  Sinuhit 
enters  two  countries  the  names  of  which  have  been  diflferently  inter- 
preted and  have  given  rise  to  numerous  discussions.  The  first, 
read  by  me  with  hesitation  as  Suanu,  has  been  transcribed  Kapuna 
by  Gardiner  {Eine  neue  Handschrift  des  Sinuhegedichtes,  pp.  7,  8, 
and  Notes  on  the  Story  of  Sinuhe,  in  Recueil,  vol.  xxxii,  pp.  21-23), 
and  then  identified  by  him  vsdth  the  town  of  Byblos  :  I  have  stated 
{Memoires  de  Sinuhit,  pp.  xlii-xliv)  the  reasons  that  prevent  my 
accepting  this  proposed  reading  and  identification.  The  second 
name,  read  Edimd,  Edumd,  by  Chabas,  has  been  identified  with 
Idumea  {Les  Papyrus  de  Berlin,  pp.  39,  75-76).  To-day  it  is  read 
Kadimd,  Kedem.  The  author  states  that  it  is  a  district  of  the 
Upper  Tonu,  and  a  scribe  who  was  contemporary  with  Thothmes  III 
has  placed  it  near  Megiddo  (Max  Miiller,  Egyptological  Researches, 
vol.  ii,  pp.  81,  82).  The  Tonu  should  at  least  include  the  space 
between  the  Dead  Sea  and  the  Sinaitic  Peninsula,  but  it  would  not 
be  necessary  to  seek  farther  towards  the  north  of  Syria,  if  the  version 
Tonu  is  an  error  for  Eatonu-Latonu  ;  the  Latonu,  as  Max  Miiller 
was  the  first  to  observe  (Asien  und  Europa,  p.  211 ;  cf.  Isidore  Levy, 
Lotanu-Lotdn,  p.  72  et  seq.),  and  as  Alan  Gardiner  strongly  maintains 
{Eine  nev£  Handschrift  des  Sinuhegedichtes,  p.  8  ;  die  Erzdhlung  des 
Sinuhe,  p.  10,  n.  4),  may  have  been  originally  a  district  contiguous 
to  that  of  the  Kharu,  the  Horites.  The  Prince  of  Tonu  or  of 
Lotanu  gives  the  Egyptian  hero  a  district,  Aaa,  or  rather  Ata,  the 
name  of  which  designates  a  species  of  plant,  the  Armido-Isiaca 
according  to  Loret  {Saccharum  JUgyptiacuni,  in  Sphinx,  vol.  viii, 
pp.  157-8).  Max  Miiller  has  found  it  after  Megiddo  and  before 
Qadimsi,  in  the  list  of  Thiitmfisis  III  {Egyptological  Researches, 
vol.  ii,  pp.  81,  82).  Is  this  the  Ajah  of  Genesis  (xxxvi,  24),  nephew 
of  Lotanu-Lotto,  and  eventually  a  province  of  Sinai  (Maspero, 
Notes  sur  quelques  points,  in  the  Recueil,  vol.  xvii,  p.  142)  ?     Sinuhit 


74  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

remained  there  some  years  in  friendly  intercourse  with  the  nomad 
archers,  the  Saatiu  ;  on  his  return  he  was  received  by  the  Egyptian 
garrison  of  a  frontier  station,  Hariu-Horu,  the  roads  of  Hortis- 
Erman  {die  Horuswege,  in  Zeitschrift,  vol.  xliii,  pp.  72,  73)  has  shown 
that  in  the  Ptolemaic  period  this  name  was  given  to  the  eastern 
border  of  the  Delta — Khont-abti — and  that  it  was  a  mythological 
designation  of  the  locality  that  in  political  geography  was  called 
Zaru.  It  is  borrowed  from  the  Horns  myth  ;  Horus,  pursuing 
after  Set-Typhon,  must  have  passed  by  Wady  TumilSt,  and  left 
his  name  there.  Sinuhit  therefore  went  by  boat  from  near  Ismailia 
to  near  DahchUr  or  Lisht,  where  the  Court  then  resided. 

An  English  novelist,  Guy  Boothby,  has  made  the  flight  of 
Sinuhit  the  starting-point  of  a  novel  of  theosophical  tendencies, 
entitled  A  Professor  of  Egyptology. 

The  hereditary  prince,  the  King's  man,  the  unique  friend,^ 
the  jackal,  administrator  of  the  domains  of  the  sovereign  and 
his  lieutenant  among  the  Beduin,  he  who  is  known  of  the 
king  in  truth  and  who  loves  him,  the  servant  Sinuhit  ^ 
aaith : 

I  am  the  follower  who  follows  his  master,  the  servant  of 
the  royal  harem  of  the  hereditary  princess,  supreme  favourite, 
royal  spouse  of  Sanuosrit  in  Khnumisuitu,  the  royal  daughter 
of  Amenemhait  in  Qanofir,  Nofrit '    Lady   of  fealty.     The 

'  The  friends  occupied  the  highest  positions  at  the  Court  of  Pharaoh  ; 
in  the  Hood  Papyrus  of  the  British  Museum  the  hierarchy  places  them 
in  the  seventh  rank  after  the  king.  They  were  divided  into  several 
categories:  the  unique  friends,  the  friends  of  the  seraglio,  the  gilded  friends, 
the  ju7iiors,  whose  positions  it  is  not  possible  to  gauge  exactly.  The 
title  continued  to  exist  at  the  Ptolemaic  Court,  and  spread  through  the 
Macedonian  world  (cf.  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  ii,  pp.  20,  21). 

^  Sinuhtt's  protocol,  beside  the  ordinary  Egyptian  dignities,  includes 
a  title  which  unfortunately  is  damaged,  and  which  we  are  not  accus- 
tomed to  find  on  the  monuments,  but  which  connects  it  with  the 
Beduin  of  Asia.  Sinuhit  had  been  in  fact  chief  of  a  tribe  of  the  Saatiti, 
and  something  of  this  remained  with  him  after  his  return  to  Egypt  and 
the  Court  of  Pharaoh.  It  is  a  new  fact,  and  one  not  unworthy  of  being 
called  to  the  notice  of  Egyptologists. 

'  The  Sanuosrit  and  Amenemhait,  of  whom  the  princess  was  the  wife  and 
daughter,  are  here  distinguished  by  the  name  of  the  pyramids  in  which  they 
were  buried,  Khnumisuitu  and  Qanofir.  The  Cairo  Museum  possesses  two 
statues  of  Princess  Nofrit,  discovered  by  Mariette  at  S4n,  the  ancient 
Tanis  (Maspero,  Guide  to  the  Cairo  Museum,  5th  Edition,  1910,  pp.  93,  94, 
Nos.  200  and  201). 


THE   MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  75 

year  xxx,  the  third  month  of  lakhuit,^  the  seventh  day, 
the  god  entered  his  double  horizon,  the  king  Sahotpiaburiya 
sprang  to  heaven,^  uniting  himself  with  the  solar  disc,  and 
the  limbs  of  the  god  were  absorbed  in  him  who  had  created 
them.  Now  the  palace  was  in  silence,  hearts  were  in 
mourning,  the  great  double  gate  was  sealed  up,  the 
courtiers  remained  crouched  down  with  their  heads  on  their 
knees,  and  the  people  also  lamented  him.  Now,  His  Majesty, 
1.  h.  s.,  had  sent  a  numerous  army  to  the  country  of  the 
Timihu,^  and  his  eldest  son,  the  good  god  Sanuosrit,  1.  h.  s., 
was  chief  of  it.  He  had  been  sent  to  strike  the  foreign 
countries  and  to  reduce  the  Tihonu  to  slavery,  and  now  he 
was  returning,  he  was  conducting  the  living  prisoners  taken 
from  among  the  Timihu,  and  all  sorts  of  cattle  without 
number.  The  Friends  of  the  Seraglio,  1.  h.  s.,  commanded 
the  people  of  the  western  side  to  inform  the  son  of  the  king 
of  the  matters  that  had  chanced  in  the  palace,  1.  h.  s.*  The 
messengers  found  him  on  the  way,  they  reached  him  in  the 
night ;  never  did  he  make  less  delay,  the  falcon  took  wing 
with  his  servants  ^  without  making  anything  known  to  his 
army.  One  commanded  the  royal  sons  who  were  with  the  army 
to  tell  no  one  of  those  who  were  there  but  as  for  me,  I  was 
there<f^I  heard  his  voice  as  he  was  speaking,  and  when  I 
went  away,  my  heart  melted,  my  arms  sank  down,  fear 
settled  on  all  my  limbs,  I  crept  away,  winding  and  turning 
to   seek   a   place   to    hide    myself  ;\  crawling  between   two 


'  One  of  the  texts,  that  of  the  Cairo  ostracon,  mentions  here  the  second 
month  of  lakhuit. 

^  In  other  words  the  king  AmeTiemhait  1st  died.  On  p.  20  of  this  volume 
we  have  another  example  of  this  euphemism. 

'  The  Timihu  are  tribes  of  Berbers  that  inhabited  the  Libyan  desert, 
to  the  west  of  Egypt. 

'  At  the  king's  death  Vae  friends  of  the  Seraglio  would  assume  the  regency 
in  the  absence  of  the  heir. 

=  The  falcon  loho  tahes  wing,  according  to  Egyptian  usage,  is  the  new 
king,  identified  either  with  Harueri,  Horus  the  eider,  or  with  Harsiesit, 
Horus  son  of  Isis. 

*  Sinuhit   omits   to  tell   us   by  what   accident   he  was  in  a  position, 


76  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

bushes  in  order  to  get  off  the  beaten  path,*  I  journeyed 
toward  the  south,  but  I  did  not  think  of  returning  to  the 
palace,  because  I  imagined  that  war  had  already  broken  out,^ 
Without  saying  a  good  wish  for  life  for  that  palace,  I 
crossed  the  canal  Mauiti  at  the  place  called  of  The  syca- 
more.' I  reached  the  island  of  Sanafrui,  and  I  passed  the 
day  there  in  a  field ;  then  I  departed  at  daybreak  and 
travelled.  A  man  who  was  standing  at  the  side  of  the  road 
craved  mercy  of  me,  for  he  was  afeared.  Towards  the  time 
of  supper,  I  approached  the  town  of  Nagau  ;  I  crossed  the 
water  on  a  punt  without  a  rudder,  owing  to  the  west  wind, 
and  I  crossed  to  the  east,  by  the  district  of  the  quarries 
in  the  place  called  Haruit-nabit-duu-doshir ;  then,  making 
way  on  foot  towards  the  north,  I  gained  the  Wall  of  the 
Prince,  which  was  constructed  to  repel  the  Saatiu  and 
to  crush  the  Nomiu-Shaiu ;  I  remained  crouched  in  a 
bush,  for  fear  of  being  seen  by  the  guard  who  watches 
on  the  curtain  of  the  wall  in  his  day.  I  started  again  at 
night,  and  the  next  day  at  sunrise  I  reached  Puteni,  and 
rested  at  the  island  Qamueri.  Then  thirst  descended  and 
assailed  me ;  I  failed,  my  throat  rattled,  and  I  then  said  to 
myself,  'This  is  the  taste  of  death';  when  I  uplifted  my 
heart  and  gathered  my  limbs  together,  for  I  heard  the  loud 
voice  of  a  herd.     The  Beduin  perceived  me,  and  one  of  their 


when  all  were  excluded,  to  overhear  the  news  brought  by  the  messenger 
to  the  new  king.  We  do  not  know  whether  the  Egyptian  law,  in  such  a, 
case,  required  the  death  of  the  unfortunate  man,  who  involuntarily  com- 
mitted such  an  indiscretion.  There  is  no  doubt  that  Sinuhlt  feared  for 
his  life  and  decided  to  fly. 

'  Sinuhlt  hid  among  the  bushes  while  the  royal  procession  passed  in 
secret  before  him.  He  then  struck  out  a  way  for  himself  among  the 
thickets,  avoiding  the  route  taken  by  Pharaoh. 

''  This  passage  can  scarcely  allude  to  anything  but  civil  war.  In  Egypt, 
as  in  all  Oriental  countries,  a  change  of  reign  often  led  to  a  revolt  ;  the 
princes  who  had  not  been  chosen  to  succeed  their  father  took  up  arms 
against  their  more  fortunate  brother. 

'  For  this  geographical  name,  and  the  following  ones,  see  the  intro- 
duction to  this  story,  pp.  72,  73. 


THE   MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  77 

sheikhs,*  who  had  sojourned  in  Egypt,  recognised  me  ;  lo,  he 
gave  me  water  and  caused  milk  to  be  boiled  for  me,  then 
1  went  with  him  with  his  tribe,  and  he  rendered  me  the 
service  of  passing  me  from  country  to  country. 

I  set  forth  for  Suanu.  I  arrived  at  the  Kadimai,  and 
I  remained  there  a  year  and  a  half. 

Ammuianashi,  who  is  the  prince  of  the  Upper  Tonu,^ 
summoned  me  and  said  to  me,  "  Thou  findest  thyself 
at  ease  with  me,  because  thou  hearest  talk  of  Egypt." 
He  said  this  because  he  knew  who  I  was  and  had  heard  of 
my  ability ;  some  Egyptians  who  were  in  the  country  with 
me  had  borne  witness  of  me  to  him.^  This  is  then  what  he 
said  to  me :  "  What  is  the  reason  wherefore  thou  art  come 
hither  ?  What  is  it  ?  Is  it  caused  by  a  journey  to  the 
horizon  in  the  palace  of  the  King  of  the  two  Egypts, 
Sahotpiaburiya,*  without  its  being  known  what  happened 
on  that  occasion  ?  " 

I  replied  to  him  with  guile,  "  Yes  verily,  when  I  returned 
from  the  expedition  to  the  land  of  the  Timihu,-  a  certain 
matter  was  repeated  to  me.  My  heart  was  stirred,  my  heart 
was  no  longer  in  my  bosom,  but  it  led  me  out  on  to  the 
desert  ways.  I  had  not  been  blamed,  no  one  had  spat  in  my 
face,  I  had  heard  no  villainy,  and  my  name  had  not  been 
heard  in  the  mouth  of  the  heralds  !  I  know  not  what  it  was 
that  led  me  to  this  country ;  it  was  as  though  designed  by 
God  ! "     "  How  will  it  be  then  in  that  land  of  Egypt  without 

■  C£.  L.  Borchardt,  zu  Sinulie  35  ff.,  in  Zeitsehrift,  1891,  vol.  xxlx, 
p.  63. 

^  The  Ramesseum  papyrus  gives  here  a  variant,  the  Upper  Lotanu. 
Cf.  introduction  to  this  story,  above,  p.  73. 

'  Probably  refugees  escaped  from  Egypt  under  similar  circumstances 
to  those  that  caused  Sinubit's  flight. 

*  The  question  of  the  prince  of  Tonu,  intentionally  somewhat  obscure,  is 
simpler  when  we  know  from  other  documents  (^Sallier  Papyrus  II,  p.  1, 
last  line ;  p.  2,  lines  1,  2)  that  there  had  been  a  conspiracy  against 
Amenemhatt.  Ammflianashi  asks  whether  Sinuhlt  had  not  been  implicated 
in  some  attempt  of  that  kind,  and  if  he  had  not  been  forced  to  make  his 
escxpe  with  the  assassin  of  the  king. 


78  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the   beneficent   god   whose  terror  is   spread   abroad  among 
foreign  nations,  as  Sokhit '  in  a  year  of  pestilence  ?  " 

I  told  him  my  belief,  and  I  replied  to  him:^  "God 
preserve  us !  his  son  has  entered  into  the  palace  and 
has  taken  the  heritage  of  his  father.  He  is  a  god  who 
verily  has  no  second ;  no  one  is  before  him.  He  is  a  lord 
of  wisdom,  prudent  in  his  schemes,  beneficent  in  his  decrees, 
by  order  of  which  one  comes  and  goes.  It  is  he  who 
has  already  subdued  foreign  regions,  while  his  father 
remained  within  his  palace,  and  he  reported  to  him  (his 
father)  that  which  he  had  decided  that  he  should  do.  He 
is  the  strong  man  that  verily  toils  with  the  sword,  a  valiant 
man  who  has  no  equal,  when  one  sees  him  flinging  himself 
against  the  barbarians,  and  joining  the  fight.  He  is  one 
who  tosses  with  the  horn,  and  makes  feeble  the  hands  of  his 
enemies ;  the  enemy  cannot  restore  order  in  their  ranks.  He 
is  the  chastiser  who  breaks  heads  ;  nothing  can  stand  before 
him.  He  is  the  rapid  runner  who  destroys  the  fugitive; 
there  is  no  refuge  to  be  reached  by  him  who  has  shown  him 
the  back.  He  is  firm  of  heart  at  the  moment  of  attack.  He 
it  is  who  returns  without  ceasing  to  the  charge,  and  has 
never  turned  the  back.  He  is  the  strong  heart,  who  when 
he  sees  the  multitudes  does  not  let  weariness  enter  his 
heart.  He  is  the  brave  one,  who  dashes  forward  when  he 
beholds  resistance.     He  it  is  who  rejoices  when  he  pounces 

'  Sokhit  or  Sakhmlt,  for  a  long  time  confounded  with  Pakhuit,  was  one 
of  the  principal  goddesses  of  the  Egyptian  Pantheon.  She  belonged  to  the 
triad  of  Memphis,  and  had  the  title  Great  friend  of  Ptah.  She  was  a  lioness 
or  a  lion-headed  goddess;  with  a  cat's  head  she  was  called  Bastit  or 
Ubastlt,  and  was  worshipped  at  Bubastis  in  the  Delta. 

^  Sinuhit  replies  to  the  question  of  the  chief  of  Tonu,  who  asked  him 
whether  his  exile  was  not  occasioned  by  some  complicity  in  an  attempt 
directed  against  the  life  of  the  sovereign.  His  flight  is  by  the  will  of  God, 
and  like  a  fatality ;  in  fact,  as  we  have  seen  above  (p.  75),  it  was  by 
chance  and  not  by  his  wish  that  he  heard  of  the  death  of  Amenemhait. 
In  order  to  show  that  he  had  never  taken  part  in  any  plot,  nor  would  ever 
do  so,  he  lannches  forth  into  emphatic  praises  of  the  new  Pharaoh, 
Sanuosrit  I ;  the  exaggerated  compliments  are  here  a  proof  of  loyalty 
and  innocence. 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF   SINTJHIT  79 

upon  the  barbarians ;  he  seizes  his  buckler,  he  overthrows 
the  adversary,  he  never  gives  a  second  blow  when  he 
slays,  but  there  is  no  one  who  can  turn  away  his  lance,  no 
one  who  can  draw  his  bow ;  the  barbarians  flee,  for  his 
two  arms  are  as  strong  as  the  souls  of  the  great  goddess.' 
When  fighting  he  knows  no  cessation,  he  heeds  nothing, 
he  leaves  nothing  remaining.  He  is  the  well-beloved,  the 
very  delightsome,  who  has  conquered  love,  and  his  city 
loves  him  more  than  itself;  it  rejoices  in  him  more  than  in 
its  own  god,  and  men  and  women  go  exulting  because  of 
him.  He  is  a  king  who  has  governed  from  the  egg,'  and 
he  has  worn  diadems  since  his  birth ;  he  it  is  who  has 
caused  his  contemporaries  to  multiply,^  and  he  is  one 
whom  the  gods  have  granted  us,  and  by  whom  that  land 
rejoices  to  be  governed.  He  it  is  who  enlarges  frontiers ; 
he  will  take  the  lands  of  the  South  and  regards  not  the 
lands  of  the  North.  He  was  created  to  smite  the  Saatiu 
and  to  crush  the  Nomiu-Shaiu.*  If  he  sends  an  expedition 
here,  may  he  know  thy  name  for  good,  and  may  no  evil 
word  of  thee  reach  His  Majesty.  For  he  never  ceases 
to  do  good  for  the  land  that  submits  to  him." 

The  chief  of  the  Tonu  replied,  "  Verily,  Egypt  is  happy  in 
that  she  knows  the  vigour  of  her  prince  !  As  to  thee,  since 
thou  art  here,  stay  with  me  and  I  will  do  well  for  thee."  He 
placed  me  before  his  children,  he  married  me  to  his  eldest 
daughter,  and  he  gave  me  what  I  chose  for  myself  in  his 

'  One  of  the  titles  given  to  Sokhit  (see  p.  78  note  1)  and  to  her  warlike 
forms. 

2  This  is  the  Egyptian  formula  to  indicate  that  royal  power  belonged  to 
the  being  from  the  moment  he  was  conceived  in  bis  mother's  womb. 

'  According  to  Gardiner  (Notes  on,  the  Story  of  Sinuhe,  in  Reaieil, 
vol.  xxxii,  p.  224),  this  passage  signifies  that  he  left  Egypt  more  populous 
than  it  was  at  the  time  of  bis  birth.  In  this  connection  it  recalls  the 
names  of  Horus,  he  who  reiieuis  births  for  Amenemhalt  I,  and  he  who  is 
the  life  of  birtlis  for  Sanuosrit  I. 

'  The  nomad  population  that  inhabit  the  desert  to  the  east  of  Egypt. 
Elsewhere  they  are  called  Haruiil-Shdiu,  the  lords  of  the  sands ;  the 
variant  Nomiu-Shaiu  appears  to  signify  those  who  rule  the  sands. 


80  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

country,  of  the  best  that  he  possessed  on  the  frontier  of  a 
neighbouring   country.     It  is    an   excellent    land,  Aia '    by 
name.     There   are   figs   in    it   and   grapes ;    wine    is    more 
abundant    there   than  water ;  honey  abounds    there ;    there 
is  oU.   in   plenty,  and   all   sorts   of  fruits   upon   its   trees  ; 
barley  and  wheat  are    there  without  limit,  and  all   breeds 
of  cattle.     Also  great  privileges  were  conferred  on  me  when 
the  prince  came  on  my  account,  and  he  installed  me  prince 
of  a  tribe  of  the  best  of  his  country.     I  had  bread  daily  and 
wine  daily,  boiled  meat,  poultry  for  roasting,  and  the  game  of 
the  country,  for  it  was  chased   for  me  and  presented  to  me, 
beside  what  my  own  hunting  dogs  brought  me.     Plenty  of 
cakes  ^  were    made    for    me,  and    milk    was    cooked   in   all 
ways.     I  passed  many-  years,  my  children  became  mighty 
ones,  each  ruling  his  tribe.     The  messenger  who  went  north, 
or  returned  southward  to  Egypt,  tarried  at  my  house,  for 
I  received  every  one ;    I  gave  water  to  the  thirsty,  I  put 
back   into   the  way  the   traveller  who   had   lost   his   road ; 
I  rescued  the  pillaged.     The  Beduin '  who  dared  to  resist 
the  princes  of  the  land,  I  directed  their  movements,  for  the 
prince  of  Tonu  granted  me  for  long  years  to  be  general  of 
his  soldiers.     All  countries  against  which  I  marched,  when  I 
flung  myself  on  them,  trembled  because  of  me  in  the  pastures 
on  the  borders  of  their  water  springs.     I  took  their  cattle,  I 
led  away  their  vassals,  and  I  carried  off  their  slaves.     I  slew 
their  men.''     By  my  sword,  by  my  bow,  by  my  marches,  by 

'  See  on  p.  73  in  the  introduction  to  this  story  the  identification  pro- 
posed for  this  locality. 

'  This  word  has  been  left  blank  in  the  Berlin  manuscript.  Very 
probably  it  was  illegible  in  the  original  papyrus  from  which  the  copy  we 
possess  of  the  story  of  Sinuhlt  was  made.  The  scribe  preferred  to  write 
nothing  rather  than  fill  up  the  gap  on  his  own  authority. 

'  Literally  the  archers.  It  is  the  generic  name  given  by  the  Egyptians 
to  the  nomad  population  of  Syria  in  opposition  to  Monatiu,  which  was 
applied  to  the  agricultural  peoples. 

*  Those  are  the  expressions  used  in  official  reports  describing  the 
ravages  of  wars  conducted  by  the  Pharaohs.  Sanuosrit  lit  says  the  same  : 
"  I  took  their  women.     I  carried  off  their  subordinates  appearing  at  their 


THE   MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  81 

my  well-laid  plans,  I  won  the  heart  of  my  prince,  and  he 
loved  me  when  he  knew  my  valour ;  he  made  me  the  chief 
of  his  children  when  he  beheld  the  vigour  of  my  arms. 

A  strong  man  of  Tonu  came,  he  defied  me  in  my  tent ;  he 
was  a  hero  who  had  no  second,  for  he  had  vanquished  the 
whole  of  Tonu.  He  said  he  would  fight  me,  he  proposed  to 
despoil  me,  he  said  aloud  he  would  take  my  cattle  at  the 
instigation  of  his  tribe.  This  prince  deliberated  with  me,  and 
I  said,  "  I  do  not  know  him.  Verily,  I  am  not  his  ally  who 
has  free  access  to  his  tent ;  have  I  ever  opened  his  door  or 
entered  his  enclosures  ?  It  is  pure  jealousy,  because  he  sees 
me  to  be  one  who  does  his  business.  God  preserve  us,  I 
am  as  the  bull  in  the  midst  of  his  cows  when  a  young  bull 
from  without  descends  on  him  to  take  possession  of  them. 
Does  a  suppliant  please  when  he  becomes  a  master  ?  There 
is  no  nomad  who  associates  willingly  with  a  fellah  of  the 
Delta,  for  how  should  a  jungle  of  bulrushes  be  transplanted 
on  a  mountain  ?  Is  he  a  bull  in  love  with  battle,  a  bull  of 
the  best  who  delights  in  giving  blow  for  blow,  and  who  fears 
to  meet  one  who  equals  him  ?  Then,  if  he  has  the  heart 
to  fight,  let  him  utter  the  intention  of  his  heart.  Is  God 
ignorant  of  what  is  decreed  with  regard  to  him?  or  if  it 
is  thus,  how  shall  it  be  known  ? "  ^  I  passed  the  night 
tightening  my  bow,  loosing  my  arrows,  practising  my 
poniard,  furbishing  my  weapons.  At  daybreak  the  country 
of  Tonu  assembled ;  they  had  collected  their  tribes  and 
convoked  all  the  neighbouring  countries,  for  they  had  fore- 
seen the  combat.  When  the  strong  man  came,  I  stood  up, 
1   placed  myself  opposite  him  ;   all  hearts  burned  for   me, 

wells,  driving  their  cattle  before  me,  spoiling  their  houses  and  setting 
them  on  fire."     Lepsius,  Denkm.  ii,  pi.  136,  h,  lines  14-16. 

'  The  whole  of  this  passage  is  difficult  to  interpret.  On  the  whole  I 
have  adopted  Gardiner's  latest  translation  {Notes  on  the  Story  of  Sinuhe,  in 
Recueil,  vol.  xxxiii,  pp.  68-72).  Sinuhlt  appears  to  think  that  his  foreign 
origin  is  the  cause  of  the  provocation  of  which  he  could  not  otherwise 
understand  the  motives.  He  accepts  it,  however,  and  refers  it  to  the 
judgment  of  God. 


82  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

men  and  women  uttered  cries,  every  heart  was  anxious  on 
my  account,  and  it  was  said,  "Is  there  in  truth  another 
champion  strong  enough  to  be  able  to  fight  with  him  ? " 
Behold,  he  took  his  buckler,  his  lance,  his  armful  of  javelins. 
When  I  had  caused  him  to  use  his  arms  in  vain,  and  had 
avoided  his  shafts  so  that  they  struck  the  ground  and  not 
one  of  them  fell  near  me,  he  fell  upon  me ;  then  I  dis- 
charged my  bow  against  him,  and  when  my  shaft  buried 
itself  in  his  neck,  he  cried  out  and  fell  on  his  nose.  I 
slew  him  with  his  own  battle-axe,  I  uttered  my  cry  of 
victory  on  his  back,  and  all  the  Asiatics  shouted  for  joy ;  I 
uttered  thanksgivings  to  Montu  ^  while  his  people  lamented 
over  him,  and  the  prince,  Ammuianashi,^  folded  me  in  his 
arms.  Behold,  then,  I  took  possession  of  the  goods  of  the 
vanquished.     I  seized  his  cattle ;  that  which  he  had  desired 

,  t«  do  to  me,  I  did  to  him ;  I  took  what  he  had  in  his  tent, 
►  '  I  pillaged  his  encampment  and  enriched  myself,  I  enlarged 
my  treasure  and  increased  the  number  of  my  cattle. 

^\^  Thus  the  god  showed  himself  gracious  to  him  who  had 
y  been  reproached  with  having  fled  to  a  strange  land,  and  who 

I  was  to-day  joyous  of  heart.  A  fugitive  had  fled  in  his  time, 
and  now  good  report  of  me  was  carried  to  the  Egyptian 
court.  A  wanderer  had  wandered  painfully,  dying  of  hunger, 
and  now  I  gave  bread  to  my  neighbour.  A  poor  wretch 
had  quitted  his  country  naked,  and  I  was  gorgeous  in  vest- 
ments of  fine  linen.  There  was  one  who  did  his  errands 
himself,  having  no  one  to  send,  and  I  possessed  many  serfs. 
My  house  was  fine,  my  domain  wide,  I  was  remembered  in 

'  The  god  of  war  at  Thebes.  He  was  worshipped  at  Hermonthis,  in  the 
immediate  vicinity  of  the  great  city.  The  Greeks  identified  him  with 
Apollo ;  he  was  in  fact  a  solar  deity,  and  the  monuments  often  confuse  him 
with  RS.,  the  sun. 

^  The  vocalisation  with  an  i  is  given  in  this  name  by  the  manuscript 
where  it  is  not  given  earlier,  or  should  it  be  read  Amu  il  Atiashi,  Anashi 
son  of  Amu?  The  Egyptians,  with  their  imperfect  system  of  writing, 
found  it  exceedingly  difficult  to  render  foreign  vowel  sounds,  and  thence 
arose  the  variations  one  finds  in  spelling. 


THE   MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  83 

the  king's  palace.  "  Oh,  all  ye  gods  who  predestined  that  I 
should  flee,  be  gracious  to  me,  bring  me  back  to  the  palace, 
perchance  grant  me  to  see  again  the  place  where  my  heart ' 
dwells.  What  happiness  if  my  body  should  one  day  rest 
in  the  country  where  I  was  bom.'  Oh  that  henceforth  my 
good  fortune  may  endure,  that  the  god  may  grant  me  peace, 
that  he  may  act  in  a  manner  expedient  for  the  man  he  has 
grieved,  that  he  may  be  compassionate  to  him  whom  he  has 
forced  to  live  in  a  strange  land.  Is  he  not  now  appeased  ? 
Oh  that  he  may  listen  to  him  who  prays  from  afar,  and  turn 
to  the  man  he  has  cast  down  and  to  the  place  from  which 
he  has  taken  him ;  ^  may  the  king  of  Egypt  be  favourable 
to  me,  and  may  I  live  on  his  gifts,  and  may  I  administer 
the  goods  of  the  Eegent  of  the  Earth '  who  is  in  her 
palace,  and  may  I  hear  the  messages  of  her  children.  Oh 
that  my  limbs  may  grow  young,  for  now  that  old  age 
approaches,  weakness  hath  seized  me,  my  two  eyes  are 
heavy,  my  arms  hang  down,  my  limbs  refuse  their  service, 
my  heart  stops.  Death  approaches  me,  and  soon  I  shall  i 
betake  myself  to  the  eternal  cities*  to  follow  the  Lady  ofv' 
All.^  Oh,  may  she  tell  me  of  the  beauties  of  her  children 
and  spend  eternity  by  my  side  !  "  ^ 

'  Cf.  the  same  wish  expressed  on  behalf  of  the  shipwrecked  man  by  the 
serpent  who  received  him  in  his  island,  p.  1 03. 

'  So  far  as  I  can  understand,  Sinuhlt  implores  the  king  to  consider  the 
disgrace  he  has  incurred,  and  the  land  from  which  he  has  been  banished, 
and  then,  considering  the  want  of  proportion  between  his  offence  and  its 
punishment,  to  recall  him,  Siuuhit,  to  Egypt. 

'  This  is  one  of  the  titles  of  the  Queen.  As  we  have  seen  above  (p.  74), 
Sinuhlt  was  administrator  of  the  harem,  and  therefore  of  the  possessions 
of  the  Queen.     He  asks  to  be  restored  to  his  former  function. 

'  The  eteriidl  cities  or  the  eternal  house  is  the  name  given  by  Egyptians 
to  the  tomb. 

'  The  Lady  of  All,  like  the  Master  of  All,  is  a  divinity  of  the  dead. 
Brman  {Aus  den  Papyrus  der  Koniglielien  Museen,  p.  22,  note  2),  and 
Gardiner  {Notes  on  the  Story  of  Sinuhe,  in  Eectteil,  vol.  xxxiii,  pp.  85,  86), 
think  rather  that  it  refers  to  the  Queen ;  Sinuhlt  would  hope  to  serve  her 
through  eternity  in  the  other  world  as  he  served  her  in  this. 

°  One  knows  the  dread  felt  by  the  Egyptians  of  dying,  and  yet  more  of 
being  buried  in  a  foreign  country.    They  believed  they  could  only  enjoy 


84  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

When  therefore  one  had  spoken  to  His  Majesty  the  King 
Khopirkeriya,'  true  of  voice,^  of  those  matters  that  con- 
cerned me,  His  Majesty  deigned  to  send  me  a  messenger 
with  presents  from  the  King  to  put  into  joy  the  servant 
who  speaks  to  you '  such  as  those  that  are  given  to  the 
princes  of  all  foreign  lands,  and  the  Infants  *  who  are  in  the 
palace  caused  me  to  receive  their  messages. 

Copy  of  the  Command   brought   to   the   Servant   here 
Present  on  the  Subject  of  his  Recall  to  Egypt 

"  Horus,  life  of  births,  lord  of  the  diadems  of  the  North 
and  the  South,  life  of  births.  King  of  Upper  and  Lower 
Egypt,  Khopirkeriya,  son  of  the  Sun,  Amenemhait  ^  living 
for  ever  and  ever. 

life  beyond  the  tomb  if  their  mummy  was  laid  in  the  land  of  Egypt.  It 
is  to  avoid  the  opprobriam  and  misfortune  of  a  tomb  in  Syria  that  Sinuhit, 
now  grown  old,  requests  to  be  allowed  to  return  home.  He  insists  so  much 
on  his  funerary  ideas,  because,  more  than  any  other  consideration,  they 
would  arouse  the  pity  of  Pharaoh. 

•  The  prenomen  of  King  Sanuosrlt  1st,  son  and  successor  to  Amenem- 
hait 1st  with  a  variant  on  the  word  Ea. 

'  The  Egyptians,  like  all  Oriental  people,  attached  great  importance  not 
only  to  the  words  of  their  religious  formulae,  but  also  to  the  intonation 
given  to  each  of  them.  For  a  prayer  to  be  effective,  and  to  have  its  full 
effect  with  the  gods,  it  must  be  recited  with  the  traditional  melopeia. 
Thus  the  highest  praise  that  could  be  given  to  a  person  obliged  to  recite 
prayers  was  to  call  him  Md-hlir&u,  true  of  voice,  to  say  that  he  had  a. 
correct  voice  and  knew  the  accent  that  must  be  given  to  each  sentence. 
The  king  or  priest  who  performed  the  office  of  lector  (Jihri-habi,  see  p.  24, 
note  2)  during  sacrifices  was  called  md-ltlirou.  The  gods  triumphed  over 
evil  by  the  correctness  of  their  voice  when  they  pronounced  the  words 
intended  to  render  evil  spirits  powerless.  The  dead  man  who  spent  all  the 
time  of  his  funerary  existence  in  uttering  incantations,  was  above  all 
things  the  md-khrSu.  The  expression  thus  employed  eventually  becomes 
an  actual  laudatory  epithet,  applied  to  all  the  dead  and  personages  of 
a  bygone  time  when  spoken  of  not  unfavourably. 

'  L.  Borchardt,  der  Ansdruck  Bk'im,  in  Zeitschrift,  1889,  vol.  xxvii, 
pp.  122-124. 

'  The  Infants  are  either  the  children  of  the  reigning  king,  or  the  children 
of  one  of  the  preceding  kings ;  in  the  Egyptian  hierarchy  they  rank 
immediately  after  the  reigning  King,  the  Queen  and  the  Queen-mother. 
(Of.  Maspero,  fyudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  ii,  pp.  14,  16.) 

'  The  style  of  this  King  is  formed  of   the   prenomen  Khopirkeriya  of 


THE  MEMOIRS  OP  SLNtTHIT  85 

"  Command  of  the  King  to  the  servant  Sinuhit.  Behold, 
this  command  of  the  King  is  brought  thee  to  instruct  thee 
as  to  his  will.' 

"Thou  hast  traversed  foreign  lands,  going  from  Kadima 
to  Tonu,  and  from  each  land  thou  hast  passed  to  another, 
and  that  only  by  the  advice  of  thine  own  heart.  What  hast 
thou  obtained  there  that  is  done  for  thee  ?  Thou  canst  no 
longer  curse,*  for  no  account  is  made  of  thy  words;  thou 
canst  no  longer  speak  in  the  council  of  the  notables,  for  thy 
speech  is  put  aside.  And  yet  this  position  that  thine  heart 
has  taken  is  not  due  to  ill-will  on  my  part  toward  thee. 
For  that  Queen,  thy  heaven,  who  is  in  the  palace,  she  yet 
remains  flourishing,  her  head  is  exalted  among  the  royalties 
of  the  land,  and  her  children  are  in  the  reserved  part  of  the 
palace.'  Thou  shalt  enjoy  the  riches  they  will  give  thee, 
and  thou  shalt  live  on  their  bounty. 

"  When  thou  art  come  to  Egypt  and  seest  the  residence 

Banuosrlt  1st  and  of  the  name  of  Amenemhalt  II.     For  the  import  of  this 
combination  see  the  Introduction,  p.  xxv. 

'  This  is  the  reply  to  the  indirect  appeal  that  Sinuhit  had  addressed  to 
the  Queen  (see  above,  p.  83,  note  3),  one  of  whose  principal  officials  we 
know  him  to  have  been  (see  p.  74),  as  well  as  of  the  children  of  Pharaoh 
by  that  princess.  From  this  passage  it  appears  that  their  intercession 
was  efficacious  and  that  Sinuhtt  owed  his  pardon  to  the  intercession  of 
Nofrlt  and  of  the  Infants. 

^  Gardiner  has  determined  the  general  bearing  of  this  sentence  with 
great  ingenuity,  but  it  appears  to  me  that  he  has  missed  the  meaning  of 
the  detail  (^Notes  on  the  Story  of  Sinuhe  in  Reciieil,  vol.  xxxiii,  pp.  87-89). 
To  curse,  in  other  words  to  utter  imprecations  against  an  individual  or  an 
object  which  obliged  the  gods  invoked  to  destroy  them,  was  a  faculty 
that  belonged  only  to  persons  in  full  possession  of  their  civil  rights,  such 
as  being  placed  among  the  Notables ;  by  voluntarily  exiling  himself 
Sinuhit  had  renounced  these  faculties,  his  malediction  had  no  longer  any 
weight  and  was  no  longer  regarded.  If  he  wished  to  prevent  theft  and 
pronounced  the  imprecations  usual  in  such  circumstances,  no  one  would 
feai  them  and  could  rob  him  with  impunity.  This  is  only  one  example  to 
indicate  the  meaning  I  attribute  to  the  passage ;  it  would  take  too  long 
tu  quote  others. 

'  It  must  be  remembered  (see  pp.  74,  83,  note  3)  that  Sinuhit  has  been 
attached  to  the  harem  of  the  Queen.     While  he  was  in  exile  she  had 
undertaken  his  defence,  and  had  gained  the  good  will  of  Pharaoh  on 
his  behalf. 
11 


86  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

where  thou  didst  dwell,  prostrate  thyself  face  to  earth 
before  the  Sublime  Porte,  and  join  thyself  to  the  Friends.^ 
For  now,  behold  thou  dost  begin  to  grow  old,  thou  hast  lost 
virile  power  and  thou  hast  thought  of  the  day  of  burial, 
of  the  crossing  to  eternal  beatitude.  Nights  among  the 
embalming  oils  and  bandages  are  assigned  to  thee  by  the 
hand  of  the  goddess  Tait.^  Thy  convoy  on  the  day  of 
burial  is  made,  a  sheathing  of  gold,  the  head  painted  blue,^ 
a  canopy  above  thee ;  *  placed  in  the  hearse,  oxen  will  draw 
thee,  the  singers  shall  go  before  thee,  dances  of  mounte- 
banks shall  be  performed  for  thee,^  to  the  sound  of  thy 
syrinx;   the  invocations  of  the  tables  of  offerings  will  be 

'  See  above,  p.  74,  note  1,  on  the  Royal  Friends. 

^  The  name  of  the  goddess  Tait  signifies  literally  linen,  bandages  ;  she 
is  the  goddess  who  presides  at  the  swaddling  of  the  new-born  or  newly 
dead.  The  ceremonies  alluded  to  in  this  passage  are  set  forth  in  a  special 
book,  which  I  have  had  an  opportunity  of  translating  and  publishing 
under  the  title  Rituel  de  Vembaumement  (Maspero,  Mhnoire  sur  quelques 
papyrus  du  Louvre). 

'  The  mummy  ooiEns  of  the  Xlth  dynasty  and  of  the  following  epochs, 
such  for  instance  as  we  have  in  the  Louvre,  are  completely  gilded,  with 
the  exception  of  the  human  face,  which  is  painted  red,  and  the  head- 
dress, which  is  painted  blue. 

'  During  the  funeral  ceremonies  the  mummy  was  deposited  on  a  funerary 
bed  surmounted  by  a  wooden  canopy.  One  of  these  was  found  by 
Rhind  at  Thebes  (Rhind,  Thebes,  its  Tombs  and  tlieir  Tenants,  pp.  88-90), 
and  is  now  in  the  Edinburgh  Museum.  Since  then  I  have  discovered 
three ;  the  first  at  Thebes,  of  the  Xlllth  dynasty ;  the  second  also  at 
Thebes,  of  the  XXth ;  the  third  at  Akhmim,  of  the  Ptolemaic  period. 
They  are  all  in  the  Cairo  Museum  (Maspero,  Manual  of  Egyptian  Archceo- 
logy,  Grevel,  1914,  p.  328,  and  Guide  to  the  Cairo  Museum,  5th  edition, 
pp.  49G,  511,  512).  The  Cairo  Museum  also  possesses  two  sledges  with 
canopies,  we  might  say  two  hearses,  of  the  XXth  dynasty  (Maspero, 
op.  cit.,  pp.  327-329,  and  Chtide  to  the  Cairo  Museum,  5th  edition,  pp.  487, 
488),  exhumed  at  Thebes  in  1886  in  the  tomb  of  Sannozmu.  They  axe 
of  the  kind  to  which  oxen  were  harnessed  to  drag  the  mummy  to  its  last 
dwelling-place. 

*  In  the  tombs  of  the  Thebau  period,  especially  in  those  of  the  XVIUth 
dynasty,  in  places  I  know,  one  sees  two  or  three  men  clothed  in  a  short 
loin-cloth,  and  wearing  a  tall  head-dress,  probably  a  wig  of  long  hair  or 
their  own  hair  allowed  to  grow  long,  raised  up  in  a  sugarloaf  form  and 
tied  above  their  heads.  These  are  the  mountebanks  who  performed 
funerary  dances  during  the  burial  ceremonies  and  amused  the  crowd  in 
the  intervals  of  lamentation  and  tears  by  their  tricks  and  contortions. 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF   SINTJHIT  87 

recited  for  thee/  victims  will  be  slain  for  thee  at  thy 
funerary  stelae,  and  thy  pyramid  will  be  built  of  white 
stone  within  the  circle  of  the  royal  Infants.^  Thou  shalt 
not  die  in  a  strange  land,  nor  shall  the  Asiatics  carry  thee 
to  the  tomb,  nor  shalt  thou  be  laid  in  a  sheepskin  when 
thy  vault  is  constructed,'  but  when  thou  art  come  hither 
there  will  be  compensation  for  the  oppression  of  thy  body 
to  which  thou  hast  been  subjected."  * 

When  this  command  reached  me,  I  was  in  the  midst  of 
my  tribe.  As  soon  as  I  had  read  it,  I  threw  myself  on  my 
belly,  I  dragged  myself  in  the  dust,°  I  scattered  it  on  my 

'  At  the  time  of  the  funeral,  and  at  all  subsequent  oflBces  performed  in 
honour  of  the  dead,  the  man  of  the  roll  (cf.  p.  24,  note  2,  p.  84,  note  2, 
and  Introduction,  p.  1)  summoned  (nais)  the  objects  necessary  for  the 
well-being  and  support  of  a  human  being,  one  after  another,  and  placed 
them  on  the  table  of  offerings.  From  there,  by  virtue  of  the  formulae, 
they  passed  at  once  on  to  the  table  of  the  dead  person. 

'  This  is  an  exact  description  of  Egyptian  funerals,  as  the  details  are 
shown  us  on  the  monuments  (cf.  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptisrmes,  toI.  i, 
pp.  81-194). 

'  We  know  from  Herodotus  that  the  Egyptians  disliked  to  have  wool 
placed  with  the  dead  ;  we  also  know  that,  notwithstanding  their  dislike 
of  it,  sheepskin  was  occasionally  made  use  of  in  burials ;  one  of  the 
mummies  of  Deir-el-Baharl  (No.  5289)  was  wrapped  in  a  white  skin 
with  the  fleece  attached  (Maspero,  Les  Momies  royales,  in  the  Mimoires 
jn-isentes  par  les  memires  de  la  Mission  permanente,  vol.  i,  p.  548).  As 
this  mummy  is  that  of  a  nameless  prince  who  appears  to  have  died  of 
poison,  it  may  be  asked  whether  the  sheepskin  was  not  reserved  for 
people  of  a  certain  class,  prisoners  or  executed  criminals  who  were  con- 
demned to  be  impure,  even  in  the  tomb.  If  this  were  the  case,  it  would 
explain  the  position  occupied  by  the  mention  of  a  sheepskin  in  the  royal 
rescript.  Pharaoh,  in  promising  to  Sinuhit  that  he  should  be  carried  to  the 
tomb  with  the  solemn  dignity  of  princes  or  of  the  wealthy,  and  that  his 
mummy  should  not  be  wrapped  in  the  sheepskin  of  condemned  persons, 
assured  him  of  complete  pardon  even  in  the  future  life. 

*  This  final  part  of  the  sentence  appears  to  have  been  altered  in  the 
only  manuscript  we  have  for  this  passage.  The  long  description  terminated 
by  it  is  a  reply  to  the  request  made  earlier  by  Sinuhit  (p.  83),  to  be 
allowed  to  return  and  be  laid  to  rest  in  his  native  land,  and  it  shows  that 
the  appeal  made  by  him  to  the  compassion  of  the  king  had  been  successful. 
He  would  have  all  the  rites  necessary  for  the  survival  of  his  double,  and 
his  future  in  the  tomb  was  assured  to  him  by  the  royal  clemency. 

'  The  Egyptians  called  this  ceremony  san-tau,  to  smell  the  earth ;  it  was 
the  enforced  accompaniment  of  all  royal  audiences  and  of  all  divine 
offerings ;  cf.  p.  261,  note  1. 


88  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

head,  I  went  round  my  dHar  (encampment)  rejoicing  and 
saying  "  How  is  it  that  such  a  thing  has  been  done  for  the 
servant  here  present,  whose  heart  has  led  him  to  strange 
barbarous  lands?  And  verily  how  beauteous  is  the  com- 
passion that  delivers  me  from  death.  For  thy  double  allows 
me  to  end  my  existence  at  the  court." 

Copy  of  the  Acknowledgment  of  the  Eeceipt  of  this 
Command 

"  The  servant  of  the  Harem,  Sinuhit,  saith :  In  peace, 
more  excellent  than  anything !  That  flight  taken  by  the 
servant  in  his  ignorance,  thy  double  knows  it,  good  god, 
lord  of  the  two  Egypts,  friend  of  Ra,  favourite  of  Montu, 
Lord  of  Thebes.  May  Amon,  Lord  of  Karnak,  Sovku,^  Ra, 
Horus,  Hathor,  Tumu,^  and  the  Ennead  of  the  gods,'  Supdu 
the  god  of  the  beauteous  souls,  Horus  of  the  land  of  the 
East,  the  royal  Urseus  that  envelops  thy  head,^  the  chiefs 
who  preside  at  the  inundation,  Minu-Horus  who  dwells  in 
foreign  countries,^  Uarurit,  lady  of  Puanit,^  Nuit,'  Haroeris- 

'  Sovku  is  the  crocodile  god  worshipped  at  Ombo,  Bsneh,  and  in  the 
towns  of  the  Faytoi. 

^  Tumu,  Atumu,  is  the  god  of  Heliopolis,  the  chief  of  the  divine  Ennead 
which  created  and  has  maintained  the  world  from  the  first  day.  For  the 
Neuvaine  of  the  gods  and  the  Neuvaine  or  Ennead  in.general,  cf.  p.  11,  note  2 , 

'  Sfipdu,  who  bears  these  various  epithgts,  was  the  god  adored  in  the 
Arabian  nome  of  Egypt.  At  times  he  is  figured  as  a  man  carrying  the 
solar  disc  on  his  head,  and  has  the  title  of  the  most  noble  of  the  spirits  of 
Heliopolis.  He  must  not  be  confused  with  the  goddess  Sopdit,  the  Greek 
Sothis,  who  represents  the  most  celebrated  constellation  of  the  Egyptian 
sky,  that  which  corresponds  with  our  Sirius. 

*  The  royal  uraeus  is  the  serpent  that  the  king  wears  attached  to  his 
crown,  and  which  is  supposed  to  protect  him  against  his  enemies. 

*  Minu,  the  Horus  of  foreign  lands,  is  the  god  of  the  Arabian  desert,  and 
in  a  general  way  of  all  the  countries  that  immediately  surround  Egypt, 
both  on  the  east  and  west. 

*  Uarurit  is  scarcely  known  to  me  except  in  this  passage.  Her  title, 
Lady  of  Puanit,  appears  to  show  that  she  is  a  secondary  form  of  Hathor, 
whom  several  very  ancient  traditions  state  to  have  come  from  this  country 
Can  Uarurit  be  the  Alilat  of  classical  writers  ? 

'  Nuit  is  tl-8  siy  goddess.  With  Sibu-Oabu  the  earth-god  she  forms  a 
divine  couple,  one  of  the  most  ancient  of  the  divine  couples  of  Egypt  ; 


THE   MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  89 

Ea,'  the  gods,  lords  of  Egypt  and  of  the  islands  of  the  Very 
Green,'  give  life  and  strength  to  thy  nostril;  may  they 
supply  thee  with  their  gifts,  may  they  give  thee  time  without 
limit,  eternity  without  measure,  so  that  one  may  repeat 
the  fear  that  thou  inspirest  over  all  the  countries  of  the 
plain  and  the  mountain,  and  that  thou  mayest  subdue  all 
that  the  disc  of  the  sun  encircles  in  its  course.  This  is 
the  prayer  that  the  servant  here  present  makes  for  his 
lord,  who  delivers  him  from  the  tomb. 

"  The  lord  of  wisdom  who  knows  men  knew  it  in  His 
Majesty  the  Sovereign,  when  the  servant  here  present  feared 
to  say  it,  so  serious  a  matter  was  it  to  utt«r.'  But  the  great  god, 
the  image  of  Ea,  makes  him  who  labours  for  himself  skilful,  and 
the  servant  here  present  is  submissive  to  Him  who  takes 
counsel  concerning  him,  and  is  at  His  command ;  for  thy 
Majesty  is  Horus,*  and  the  might  of  thy  arms  extends  over 
all  countries. 

"  Now  therefore  let  thy  Majesty  give  command  to  bring 
in  Maki  of  Kadima,  Khentiaush  of  Khonti-Kaushu,^  Meniis 

one  o£  those  that  could  not  be  included  in  the  solar  type  by  the  theo- 
logians of  the  great  Theban  school  of  the  time  of  Bamses.  Pictures 
represent  Nult  bending  over  her  spouse,  and  by  the  outline  of  her  figure 
representing  the  starry  firmament. 

'  Horus  the  elder,  HaruSri,  of  which  the  Greeks  made  Arolres,  is  a  solar 
god  with  the  same  title  as  K4,  which  explains  why  he  is  connected 
with  him  in  this  passage.  He  must  not  be  confused  with  Horus  the 
younger,  the  son  of  Isis  and  Osiris. 

^  The  Egyptians  gave  the  name  Very  Green,  Daz-nlrtt,  to  the  sea.  This 
name  occasionally  applies  to  the  Red  Sea,  but  more  often  to  the 
Mediterranean  ;  it  is  the  latter   sea  that  is  alluded  to  here. 

^  The  matter  that  was  serious  to  utter,  and  that  was  known  to  the 
sovereign  in  his  wisdom,  was  the  petition  of  Sinuhlt  to  be  permitted 
to  return  to  Egypt. 

'  The  kings  of  primitive  Egypt  believed  themselves  to  be  descended 
directly  from  Horus,  the  divine  falcon,  and  in  consequence  they  called 
themselves  the  Horus,  the  living  Horus,  the  life  of  Horus,  as  is  set  forth  in 
official  protocols. 

'  Khonti-Kaushu  signifies  lie  mho  is  imprisoned  in  Kaiishu,  and  in  con- 
sequence appears  to  indicate  some  personage  of  Ethiopian  origin.  Never- 
theless the  neighbourhood  of  Kadimd  appears  rather  to  indicate  a  Syrian 
locality,  and  I  do  not  know  where  to  place  it  exactly. 


90  STORIES   OF  ANCIBNT  EGYPT 

of  the  two  subjugated  lands/  princes  whose  name  is  with- 
out blame  and  who  love  thee,  who  have  never  been  re- 
proached for  any  matter,  for  Tonu  is  thine  as  are  thy  hounds. 
For  this  flight  made  by  thy  servant  here  present,  he  did  not 
make  it  knowingly,  it  was  not  my  intention  to  do  so  ;  it  was 
not  premeditated  and  I  know  not  what  tore  me  from  the 
place  where  I  was.  It  was  as  a  dream,  as  when  a  man  of 
Athu  beholds  himself  at  labu  ^  or  a  man  of  the  marshes 
in  the  desert  of  Nubia.'  I  had  nothing  to  fear,  nobody 
pursued  me.  I  had  heard  no  villainy,  and  my  name  had 
never  been  in  the  mouth  of  the  herald,  and  yet  my  flesh 
trembled,  my  limbs  impelled  me,  my  heart  guided  me,  the 
god  who  predestinated  me  to  this  flight  drew  me,  for  I 
am  not  one  who  hardens  his  back,  and  the  man  is 
afeared  who  knows  his  own  country  well.  Now  Ea  has 
granted  that  thy  fear  should  reign  over  the  land  of  Egypt, 
that  thy  terror  should  be  on  all  foreign  lands.  For  me, 
whether  I  am  in  the  palace,  or  whether  I  am  here,  it  is 
thou  who  canst  veil  my  horizon  ;  the  sun  arises  at  thy 
pleasure,  the  water  of  the  river  which  it  pleaseth  thee  to 

'  The  words  I  render  by  the  suhjugated  lands  have  been  rendered  by 
Brugsch  and  others  The  Country  of  the  Phoenicians.  Without  entering 
into  the  question  as  to  whether  the  ethnic  name  Fonkhu  lends  itself  to 
identification  with  Phoenicia,  it  is  sufficient  to  say  that  the  orthography 
of  this  manuscript  does  not  permit  us  to  recognise  it  in  this  passage.  I 
do  not  know  from  other  sources  what  region  was  called  by  the  Egyptians 
the  subjugated  land  or  more  exactly  the  ravaged  land. 

^  labu  is  the  Egyptian  name  of  Elephantine,  Athu  that  of  a  province 
of  the  Delta ;  these  two  localities  which  are  situated,  one  at  the  extreme 
south,  the  other  at  the  extreme  north  of  Egypt,  like  Dan  to  Beersheba 
of  the  Hebrews,  were  used  proverbially  to  express  the  entire  extent  of 
the  country.  A  man  of  labu  who  sees  himself  at  Athu  is  an  Egyptian  of 
the  north  transported  to  the  south  and  completely  on  foreign  ground ; 
the  difference,  not  only  of  manners  and  customs  but  also  of  dialect,  is 
so  great  that  one  might  compare  the  unintelligible  language  of  a  bad 
scribe  to  the  speech  of  a  man  of  labu  who  finds  himself  at  Athu. 

'  The  exact  translation  would  be  the  land  of  Khonti.  This  land  of 
Khonti,  by  comparison  with  the  cultivated  plain  of  Egypt,  should  refer 
to  Khato,  Nubia  or  the  dry  and  sterile  heights  that  border  the  valley  on 
the  east  and  west.    (Cf.  Brugsch,  Dictionnaire  giographique,  pp.  1281-1284.) 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  91 

drink,  the  breeze  of  heaven  which  thou  art  pleased  to 
breathe.  I,  the  servant  here  present,  will  leave  the  functions 
that  I,  the  servant  here  present,  have  had  in  this  place. 
May  Thy  Majesty  do  as  it  pleaseth  thee,  for  one  lives  on 
the  air  thou  givest,  it  is  the  love  of  Ra,  of  Horus,  and  of 
Hathor  that  refreshes  thy  nostril,  and  it  is  the  gift  of 
Montu,  lord  of  Thebes,  that  it  lives  eternally." 

When  they  had  come  to  fetch  me,  the  servant '  here 
present,  I  celebrated  a  day  of  festival  in  Aia  to  hand  over 
my  goods  to  my  children ;  my  eldest  son  became  chief  of 
my  tribe,  so  that  my  tribe  and  all  my  possessions  became 
his,  my  serfs,  all  my  cattle,  all  my  plantations,  all  my 
date-palms.  Then  I,  the  servant  here  present,  I  travelled 
southwards,  and  when  I  stopped  at  Hariu-Horu  ^  the  general 
who  is  there  with  the  frontier  guards  sent  a  messenger  to 
the  palace  to  tell  them.  His  Majesty  sent  an  excellent 
superintendent  of  the  farmers  of  the  King's  house,  and 
with  him  cargo  boats  full  of  presents  from  the  King  for 
the  Beduin  who  had  come  with  me  to  Hariu-Horu.  I  said 
good-bye  to  each  of  them  by  name ;  then  as  there  were 
serving-men  there  of  all  sorts,  each  assigned  to  his  own 
duties,  I  cast  off,  set  sail,  and  bread  was  kneaded  and  beer  was 
brewed  for  me '  until  I  arrived  at  the  royal  city  Taitu-taui.* 

"  Gardiner  transfers  here,  and  I  think  correctly,  that  part  of  the  sentence 
which  is  placed  two  lines  higher  in  the  only  manuscript  we  possess  (rfie 
Erzahlung  des  Sinuhe,  p.  13).  It  appears  that  the  scribe,  having  arrived 
at  the  bottom  of  this  page,  placed  all  the  peroration  of  his  document 
after  I  shall  leave ;  and  that  he  observed  his  mistake  before  having  written 
anythiog  more  than  the  misplaced  sentence.  All  that  was  missing  he 
put  in  after  that,  without  troubling  to  place  the  words  he  had  here 
inserted  by  mistake,  on  the  top  of  the  following  page,  where  they  belonged. 

^  See  the  introduction  to  this  story,  p.  74. 

'  Beer  was  made  daily  at  the  same  time  as  the  bread,  which  was 
employed  as  yeast  to  ferment  the  brew. 

*  The  name  of  this  locality  is  written  Taltu,  lit.  tlie  dominatrix. 
Griffith  has  very  ingeniously  recognised  in  it  an  equivalent  to  the  ex- 
pression the  dominatrix  of  the  two  lands,  which  designates  the  royal  city 
of  the  earlier  kings  of  the  Xllth  dynasty,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the 
pyramids  of  Lisht. 


I 


92  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

The  following  morning  when  the  earth  brightened  they 
came  to  summon  me :  ten  men  came  and  ten  men  went 
to  lead  me  to  the  palace.  I  touched  the  ground  with  my 
forehead  between  the  sphinxes,'  then  the  royal  Infants  who 
were  standing  in  the  guard-room  came  to  meet  me,  the 
Friends  who  are  charged  with  ushering  into  the  hypostyle 
hall  led  me  to  the  reception  room  of  the  King.^  I  found  His 
Majesty  on  the  great  raised  dais  in  the  Embrasure  of  Silver 
out?  I  threw  myself  on  my  belly,  and  I  lost  consciousness 
before  him.  The  god  addressed  me  with  kindly  words,  but 
I  was  like  one  caught  by  the  dusk  ;  my  soul  failed,  my  limbs 
sank,  my  heart  was  no  longer  in  my  bosom,  so  that  I  knew  the 
difference  there  is  between  life  and  death.  His  Majesty  said 
to  one  of  the  Friends,  "  Eaise  him,  and  let  him  speak  to 
me."  His  Majesty  said,  "  So,  thou  art  come,  after  thou 
hast  been  in  foreign  lands,  and  hast  taken  flight.  Age 
has  attacked  thee,  thou  hast  attained  old  age  ;  it  is  no  small 
matter  that  henceforth  thy  body  may  be  laid  to  rest  without 
being  buried  by  barbarians.  Do  not  again  offend  by  not 
speaking  when  thou  art  questioned."  I  feared  punishment,  and 
I  answered  with  the  reply  of  a  frightened  man,  "  What  has 
my  lord  said  to  me  ?  Lo,  I  reply  thus :  '  It  was  not  my 
doing,  it  was  the  hand  of  God  ;  the  fear  now  in  my  breast 
may  be  said  to  have  caused  the  fateful   flight.*     Here  am 

'  This  refers  to  the  colossi  or  the  sphinxes  which  were  usually  erected 
on  each  side  of  the  gate  of  a  temple  or  palace. 

'  See  above,  pp.  33-37  In  the  story  of  Khuful,  the  description  of  a 
royal  audience,  less  developed,  but  similar  to  this  in  the  terms  employed. 

"  The  Egyptians  used  a  great  deal  of  gold  and  precious  metal  in  the 
decoration  of  their  temples  and  houses ;  there  is  frequent  mention  of 
doors,  columns,  and  obelisks  covered  with  gold  leaf,  silver,  or  electrum, 
which  latter  is  a  mixture  of  gold  and  silver  containing  at  least  twenty 
per  cent,  of  silver.  The  Embrasure  of  Silver  Gilt,  the  golden  gate  where 
the  Pharaohs  sat  in  audience,  acquired  its  name  from  Its  decoration.  The 
great  hall  of  the  Theban  royal  tombs,  corresponding  to  the  throne-room 
of  the  palaces,  was  called  the  Hall  of  Gold,  although  it  was  not  gilded. 
No  doubt  it  had  been  decorated  with  gold  leaf  at  some  time,  and  had 
retained  the  name. 

'  Rinuhtt  once  more  asserts  his  innocence.     We  have  seen  (pp.  75,  77,  90) 


THE   MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  93 

I  before  thee  ;  thou  art  life,  may  thy  Majesty  do  according 
to  thy  pleasure.' " 

The  royal  Infants  were  made  to  pass  before  him,  and  His 
Majesty  said  to  the  Queen,  "  Here  is  Sinuhit  who  comes, 
resembling  an  Asiatic,  or  a  Beduin  that  he  has  become." 
She  uttered  a  great  peal  of  laughter,  and  the  royal  Infants 
shouted  all  together.  They  said  before  His  Majesty,  "No, 
that  is  not  so  in  truth,  oh  sovereign,  my  lord."  His  Majesty 
said,  "  It  is  so  in  truth."  Then  they  took  their  castanets,^ 
their  sceptres,^  their  sistra,  and  then,  lo,  they  said  to  His 
Majesty,  "  Place  thy  two  hands  upon  the  good  ones,  oh  long- 
under  what  circumstances  he  had  fled,  and  this  precipitate  flight  might 
well  give  rise  to  a  belief  that  he  had  been  involved  in  a  plot  against 
Amenemhait,  or  especially  against  Sanuosrlt.  Most  of  the  clauses  of  the 
treaty  between  Ramses  II  and  the  prince  of  Khati  relative  to  an  exchange 
of  fugitives  show  with  what  care  Pharaoh  attempted  to  arrest  such  of  his 
subjects  as  had  fled  to  foreign  countries.  This  is  why  Sinuhit  reverts 
with  such  insistence  to  the  motive  of  his  flight,  and  the  fatality  of  which 
he  had  been  the  victim. 

'  According  to  Loret  (les  Cymiales  egyptiennes,  in  Sphinx,  vol.  v, 
pp.  93-96),  the  kind  of  necklace  to  which  I  give  the  name  of  Castanet  was  the 
cymbal.  The  ceremonial  of  Pbaraonic  audiences,  like  that  of  the  Byzan- 
tines, admitted  of  songs  arranged  beforehand.  The  Infants,  after  having 
saluted  the  King,  commenced  this  part  of  the  ceremony;  they  resumed 
their  insignia,  which  they  had  laid  aside  before  defiling  before  the  King 
and  offering  their  adoration,  and  also  the  sistrum,  which  would  supply 
the  rhythm  for  their  chant. 

'  Sceptre  does  not  exactly  correspond  to  the  term  used  here,  and  which 
reads  sakkmu.  The  saUhmu  was  originally  a  weapon  of  war  and  of 
hunting  composed  of  a  kind  of  flat  blade  of  hard  wood,  sharpened  on  both 
sides,  shaped  square  at  the  upper  end  and  set  into  a  round  handle.  It 
served  both  as  a  .sabre  and  a  mace,  stunning  rather  than  cutting.  In 
primitive  times  it  was  so  associated  with  the  idea  of  a  strong  man  that  it 
served  as  an  emblem  of  him,  and  was  deposited  in  the  tomb  as  a  support 
or  an  emblem  of  survival ;  the  sakhmu,  the  wooden  sword  animated  by 
the  spirit  of  its  ancient  terrestrial  owner,  is  a  form  of  the  soul  like  the 
double  and  the  luniino^is.  As  with  us  the  sword  has  become  a  mere  mark 
of  rank  when  worn  at  court,  the  sakhmu  was  no  more  than  an  honorific 
emblem  among  Egyptians  of  the  historic  age.  People  of  good  family  and 
officials  carried  it  in  ceremonies.  A  variety  of  it,  the  Uarpu,  and  some- 
times the  sakhmu  itself,  played  a  part  in  sacrifices ;  whereas  at  one  time 
it  had  been  used  actually  to  slay  the  animal,  the  personage  ofiiciating 
now  raised  it  above  the  head  of  the  victim  as  a  signal  to  the  butcher  to 
cut  its  throat. 


94  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

lived  King,  for  they  are  the  ornaments  of  the  Lady  of 
Heaven ' ;  the  Golden  goddess  gives  life  to  thy  nostril,  the 
Lady  of  the  Stars  unites  with  thee,  the  diadem  of  the 
South  sails  down  and  the  diadem  of  the  North  sails  up  the 
river,  united  firmly  by  the  mouth  of  Thy  Majesty,  and  the 
urasus  is  on  thy  forehead.  Thou  hast  warded  off  evil  from 
thy  subjects,  for  Ea  is  favourable  to  thee,  oh  lord  of  the 
Two  Lands.  Thou  art  acclaimed  as  the  Mistress  of  All "  is 
acclaimed  :  string  thy  bow,  loose  thy  arrow ;  cause  that 
he  who  is  oppressed  may  breathe.  Grant  to  us  this 
signal  favour  that  we  ask  of  thee  for  this  sheikh  Simihit,' 
the  Beduin  who  was  born  in  Tomuri.  If  he  fled,  and 
left  this  land,  it  was  for  fear  of  thee ;  what  face  does  not 
whiten  that  sees  thy  face,  and  what  eye  does  not  fear  that 
contemplates  thee  ?  "  His  Majesty  said,  "  He  need  fear  no 
more,  nor  call  out  in  terror.  He  shall  be  a  Friend  of  those 
who  are  among  the  arbitrators,  and  be  placed  among  the 
people  of  the  royal  circle.*  Go  with  him  to  the  royal 
dressing  hall  to  give  him  that  which  is  his  due." 

When  I  went  out  of  the  royal  residence,  the  Infants  gave 
me  the  hand,  and  we  went  together  at  once  to  the  great 

'  The  expression  to  touch  the  adornments  of  the  Lady  of  Heaven,  mean- 
ing the  castanets,  seems  to  express  an  idea  of  clemency.  Several 
divinities  bear  the  title  Lady  nf  Heaven ;  the  mention  of  Nubuit,  the  lady 
of  gold,  in  the  following  line  shows  that  it  is  H§,thor  who  is  referred  to 
here. 

^  Here  as  above  (cf.  p.  83,  note  5)  this  expression  designates  either  a 
goddess,  HSithor  in  her  funerary  character,  or  as  Gardiner  considers  (Notes 
on  the  story  of  Sinuhe  in  Recueil,  vol.  xxsiii,  pp.  85,  86)  the  queen,  Nofrlt. 

'  This  variant  of  the  name  of  Sinuhit  signifies  literally  the  son  of  tlie 
north;  Gardiner  {die  Brzdhlung  des  Sinuhe,  p.  14,  note  5)  translates  it 
the  son  nf  the  north  wind,  binuhe  is  called  the  Stti,  because  of  his  long 
sojourn  among  the  Bedulns,  which  had  caused  him  to  lose  the  fine  appear- 
ance of  a  courtier.  The  King  had  already  remarked  (p.  93)  that  he 
comes  like  a  rustic  with  the  appearance  of  a  Siti.  The  Tomuri,  the  land  of 
canals,  is  a  name  for  the  Delta  that  also  applied  to  the  whole  of  Egypt. 

'  Personages  attached  to  the  court  of  Pharaoh  received  two  collective 
quaUfications,  that  of  Shanflatiu,  the  people  of  the  circle,  those  who  are 
in  the  circle  round  the  sovereign,  and  that  of  Qanbuatiu,  the  people  of  the 
corner,  perhaps  those  who  remained  in  the  corners  of  the  audience 
chamber. 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  95 

double  gate.*  The  house  of  a  Royal  Son  was  assigned  me, 
with  its  wealth,  its  bath-room,  with  its  celestial  decorations 
and  its  furniture  brought  from  the  double  white  house, 
clothes  from  the  royal  wardrobe,  and  choice  perfumes  in 
every  room,  of  the  kinds  used  by  the  King  and  the  nobles, 
and  serving-men  of  every  sort,  each  carrying  on  his  business.^ 
Removing  the  years  from  my  flesh,  I  shaved  myself.  I 
combed  my  hair,'  I  left  squalor  to  the  foreign  lands,  and 
their  garments  to  the  Nomiu-Shaiu  * ;  then  I  clad  myself 
in  fine  linen,  I  perfumed  myself  with  delicate  essences, 
I  slept  in  a  bed,  and  I  left  the  sand  to  those  who  dwell  there, 
the  oil  of  the  tree  to  those  who  rub  themselves  with  it.^ 
A  house  was  given  me  suitable  to  a  landed  proprietor, 
such  as  a  Friend  possesses.  Many  brickmakers  toiled 
to  build  it,  all  the  woodwork  of  it  was  made  new,  and 
victuals  were  brought  me  from  the  palace  three  times,  four 

'  Rulti,  or  with  the  article  Piniiti,  is  like  Parul-du,  Pharaoh,  a  topo- 
graphical term  at  iirst  used  to  denote  the  palace  of  the  sovereign,  and  then 
the  sovereign  himself.  In  the  Introduction  (p.  xxxii)  we  have  seen  that  it 
was  from  this  title  Greek  legend  derived  the  name  of  Proteus,  King 
of  Egypt,  who  entertained  Helen,  Paris,  and  Menelaus,  at  his  court 
(Herodotus  II,  cxii-cxvi).  Here  the  term  may  be  taken  in  its  etymo- 
logical meaning,  and  the  double  gateway  recognised  that  gave  access  to 
the  palace  and  under  which  the  Pharaohs  gave  audience  or  administered 
justice.  Sinuhit  is  conducted  by  the  Infants  to  the  great  double  gates  to 
receive  legally  the  grant  accorded  him  by  the  sovereign  (Spiegelberg, 
t/ber  xwei  Stelle  der  Sinuhe-Novell,  in  Sphinx,  vol.  iv,  pp.  140-141). 

^  Every  royal  palace  and  every  mansion  of  the  wealthy  and  great  had 
attEUjhed  to  them  what  were  called  houses  or  chambers,  ait,  where  all  the 
necessities  of  life  were  manufactured,  and  where  the  slaves  or  artisans 
employed  in  making  them  were  lodged.  Then  there  were  houses  of  bread, 
beer,  meat,  stuffs  and  so  forth.  The  scenes  figured  with  little  wooden 
models  that  are  found  in  tombs  of  the  first  Theban  period  or  at  the  close 
of  the  Memphite  age  show  us  some  of  these  houses  in  full  activity 
(Maspero,  Guide  to  tlie  Cairo  Museum,  1910,  5th  ed.,  pp.  501-503. 

'  This  confirms  a  statement  of  Diodorus  of  Sicily  (i,  18)  where  it  says 
that  the  Egyptians  kept  their  hair  long  and  matted  when  they  lived 
abroad,  and  only  cut  it  on  their  return  (Spiegelberg,  op.  cit.,  vol.  iv, 
pp.  140-141). 

*  For  the  geographical  import  and  tbe  meaning  of  this  word,  see  above, 
p.  79,  note  4. 

'  The  oil  of  the  tree  is  olive  oil,  which  is  produced  in  Asia,  in  distinction 
to  oil  of  MM,  castor  oil,  which  is  used  in  Egypt. 


96  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

times  daily,  in  addition  to  that  which  the  Infants  gave  me 
without  ceasing  for  a  moment.  A  pyramid  of  stone  was 
built  for  me  in  the  midst  of  the  funerary  pyramids/  the  chief 
of  the  stone-masons  of  His  Majesty  marked  out  the  site,  the 
chief  of  the  draughtsmen  designed  the  decoration,  the 
chief  of  the  sculptors  carved  it,  the  chiefs  of  the  works  that 
are  carried  on  in  the  necropolis  traversed  the  land  of  Egypt 
on  this  account.^  All  kinds  of  furnishing  were  placed  in 
the  storehouses  and  all  that  was  needful  was  placed  there. 
I  appointed  priests  of  the  double,'  I  made  a  tomb  garden 
in  it  in  front  of  its  town.  I  gave  the  furniture,  making  the 
necessary  arrangements  in  the  pyramid  itself.  Then  I  gave 
lands  and  instituted  a  funerary  domain  *  with  the  lands  in 

'  These  are  the  statements  often  found  on  funerary  inscriptions,  here 
placed  in  the  usual  order  in  the  narrative.  Binuhlt  receives  a  supreme 
favour  from  Saudosrtt — a  tomb  built  and  endowed  at  the  expense  of 
Pharaoh,  ft/iir  ?wsu  nite  suttmu,  "by  the  King's  favour."  The  site  itself 
is  given  gratuitously,  then,  when  the  pyramid  is  built,  the  funerary  feasts 
are  instituted,  the  revenues  and  landed  property  intended  to  supply  the 
sacrifices  are  taken  from  the  royal  domain ;  and  finally  the  statue  itself, 
which  has  to  serve  as  a  support  to  Sinuhlt's  double,  is  of  precious 
metal. 

'  See  at  the  beginning  of  this  story  (p.  70)  the  version  of  this  passage 
that  occurs  on  ostracon  5629  of  the  British  Museum.  The  journeys  across 
Egypt  made  by  these  personages  were  in  order  to  provide  the  sarcophagus, 
the  tables  of  offerings,  the  coffers  and  the  stone  statues  which  were  placed 
in  the  tombs. 

'  The  servants  or  priests  of  the  double  were  personages  whose  duty  it 
was  to  keep  the  tomb  in  order,  and  to  perform  all  the  acts  and  ceremonies 
required  to  assume  the  existence  and  comfort  of  the  double. 

*  This  might  be  rigorously  translated  "  a  lake."  The  lake,  or  rather  the 
piece  of  water  surrounded  by  a  stone  margin,  was  in  fact  the  indispensable 
ornament  of  every  house  of  any  pretensions  to  comfort  (cf.  pp.  28-30  in 
the  Story  of  Khufui,  the  lake  of  the  palace  of  Sanafrui,  and  later  that  of 
the  palace  of  Amasis  in  the  Story  of  the  Mariiier,  pp.  281,  283-284).  The  ideal 
tomb  being  above  all  a  figure  of  a  terrestrial  house,  care  was  taken  to 
place  a  lake  there  similar  to  that  of  the  houses.  The  dead  man  would  come 
there  to  sail  in  his  boat  drawn  by  slaves,  or  to  sit  on  its  banks  in  the  shade 
of  the  sycamores.  The  kiosk,  like  the  lake,  was  one  of  the  indispensable 
ornaments  of  a  garden.  The  bas-reliefs  of  Thebes  show  them  amidst  the 
trees,  sometimes  by  the  side  of  the  regulation  piece  of  water.  The  dead 
resorted  there,  like  the  living,  to  take  a  siesta,  to  chat  with  his  wife,  to  read 
stories,  or  to  sport  with  women. 


THE  MEMOIRS   OF   SINUHIT  97 

front  of  the  city,^  as  is  done  for  Friends  of  the  first  rank ; 
my  statue  was  overlaid  with  gold  with  a  skirt  of  electrum, 
and  it  was  His  Majesty  who  caused  it  to  be  made.  It  is 
no  common  man  for  whom  so  much  has  been  done,  but 
I  was  in  favour  with  the  King  until  the  day  of  death 
arrived  for  me. — This  is  finished  from  beginning  to  end,  as 
it  was  found  in  the  book. 


'  The  fields  of  the  funerary  domain  were  the  property  of  the  dead,  and 
provided  him  with  all  he  needed.  Each  of  them  produced  some  special 
object,  or  the  revenue  from  it  was  devoted  to  providing  the  dead  man  with 
some  special  article  of  food  or  clothing,  and  it  bore  the  name  of  that 
article.  For  instance,  the  field  from  which  Ti  procured  his  figs  or  dates 
was  called  the  figs  of  Ti,  the  dates  of  Ti.  This  property  was  administered 
by  t\ie  priests  of  the  double  or  of  the  funerary  statue,  who  were  often  them- 
selves priests  of  the  principal  temple  of  the  locality  where  the  tomb  was 
situated ;  the  family  made  a  contract  with  them  by  the  terms  of  which 
they  engaged  to  celebrate  the  sacrifices  necessary  for  the  well-being  of  the 
dead  in  exchange  for  certain  rents  levied  on  the  bequeathed  domains. 


THE    SHIPWEECKED    SAILOR. 

(XIITH   DYNASTY) 

The  Papyrus  that  contains  tMs  story  belongs  to  the  Imperial 
Egyptian  Museum  of  the  Hermitage,  St.  Petersburg.  It  was  dis- 
covered in  1880  by  W.  Gol^nischeff,  and  by  him  brought  to  the  notice 
of  the  scholars  who  took  part  in  the  fifth  International  Congress  of 
Orientalists,  at  Berlin  in  1881.  He  did  not  then  edit  the  text,  but  he 
has  published  a  translation  in  French  ;  Sur  un  ancien  conte  igyptien. 
Notice  lue  au  Congres  des  Orientalistes  a  Berlin,  per  W.  Gol6nischeflf, 
1881,  without  publisher's  name,  large  8vo,  21  pp.  Breitkopf  and 
Hartel,  Leipzig.  It  was  inserted  in  the  Verhandlungen  des  5"°  Inter- 
nationalen  Orientalisten-Congresses,  Berlin,  1882,  2'"  Theil,  Erste 
Halfte,  Africanische  Section,  pp.  100-122.  This  is  the  version  I  re- 
produced in  the  two  first  editions  of  this  work,  modifying  it  slightly 
on  certain  points,  and  it  was  from  itthataKussian  translation  was  made 
by  Wladimir  Stasow  :  Jegipetskajasharka  oikrytaja  w  Petersburgskom 
Ermitaze  (An  Egyptian  tale  discovered  at  the  Hermitage  of  St. 
Petersburg )  in  the  review  Westnih  Jewropy  (The  Messengers  of 
Europe),  1882,  vol.  i,  pp.  580-602,  and  the  two  English  translations 
given  by  Griffith  in  W.  Flinders  Petrie,  Egyptian  Tales,  1895, 
London,  12mo,  vol.  i,  pp.  81-96,  and  F.  LI.  Griffith,  Egyptian 
lAierature,  in  Specimen  Pages  of  a  Library  of  the  World's  Best 
Literature,  1898,  New  York,  4to,  pp.  5233-5236. 

Since  then,  Gol6nischeiI  inserted  a  translation  of  it  in  his 
Catalogue  du  Musee  de  I' Ermitage,  1891,  St.  Petersburg,  8vo,  pp. 
177-182. 

A  Portuguese  translation  was  sketched  out,  with  a  study  of 
the  text,  by  Francisco  Maria  Estevez  Pereira,  0  Naufrago  Conte 
Egipeio,  extract  from  the  review  0  Instituto,  vol.  xlviii,  4to,  Coimbre, 
Imprensa  da  Universidade,  23  pp. 

Finally  Gol^nischeff  himself  has  given  a  complete  hieroglyphic 
transcription  of  the  text  with  a  French  translation  and  commentary  : 
W.  Gol6nischefi',  Le  Papyrus,  hiAratique  de  Saint  Pitersbourg,  in 
the  Recueil  de  Travavx,  1906,  vol.  xxviii,  pp.  73-112;  published 
separately  in  a  quarto  of  40  pages.  Champion,  1906,  and  a  critical 

98 


THE   SHIPWRECKED   SAILOR  99 

edition  in  hieroglyphs  with  introduction  and  glossary,  in  Bibliotkeqtie 
(TEtude  of  the  Institut  frangais  d'Archtologie  Orientale  du  Caire, 
under  the  title  Le  Conte  du  Naufragi^  4to,  Caire,  1911. 

From  Gol6nischeff's  transcription,  collated  with  photographs  of  the 
original,  a  hieroglyphic  transcription  and  German  translation  was 
produced  by  Adolf  Erman,  die  Geschichte  des  Schiffhriichigen 
in  Zeitschrift,  1906,  vol.  xliii,  pp.  1-26,  and  a  German  trans- 
lation only  by  A.  Wiedemann,  Altdgyptische  Sagen  und  Mcirchen, 
1906,  Leipzig,  8vo,  pp.  25-33. 

An  examination  of  some  difficult  passages  has  been  made,  and 
hypotheses  regarding  the  origin  of  the  story  have  been  issued  by 
Maspero,  Notes  sur  le  Conte  du  Naufrwgi,  in  the  Recueil,  1907,  vol. 
xxix,  pp.  106-109  ;  by  Kurt  Sethe,  Bemerkungen  zur  Geschichte  des 
Schiffhriichigen,  in  Zeitschrift,  1907,  vol.  xliv,  pp.  80-88  ;  and  by 
Alan  H.  Gardiner,  Notes  on  the  Tale  of  the  Shijjwrecked  Sailor,  1908, 
vol.  xlv,  pp.  60-66. 

It  is  not  known  where  the  manuscript  was  found,  how  it  found  its 
way  to  Russia,  or  at  what  time  it  became  the  property  of  the  Hermit- 
age Museum.  It  was  not  opened  until  1880,  and  had  it  not  been  for 
the  interest  shown  by  M.  Gol6nischefF  it  would  still  have  been  lying 
in  a  drawer  waiting  for  some  one  to  unroll  it.  The  writing  is  the 
same  as  that  of  the  Berlin  Papyri  1-4,  and  like  them  it  dates  back  to 
a  period  previous  to  the  XVIIIth  dynasty.  It  contains  a  hundred 
and  eighty-nine  vertical  columns  and  horizontal  lines  of  text,  it  is 
complete  from  beginning  to  end,  and  almost  every  word  is  intact. 
The  language  is  clear  and  well  expressed,  the  script  neat  and  well 
formed.  It  is  only  very  occasionally  that  one  finds  some  terms  that 
are  difficult  to  decipher,  or  ambiguous  grammatical  forms.  It 
is  worthy  to  be  regarded  as  the  classical  Egyptian  of  its  period 
as  completely  as  the  Tcde  of  Two  Brothers  is  of  that  of  the  XlXth 
dynasty. 

The  author  has  arranged  his  romance  in  the  form  of  a  report 
such-as  Egyptian  oflScials  addressed  to  their  lord,  of  which  several 
were  reproduced  in  the  tombs  of  the  princes  of  Elephantine  of  the 
Vlth  dynasty,  and  elsewhere.  One  of  the  subordinates  of  the 
explorer,  perhaps  the  man  who  is  supposed  to  have  written 
the  report,  comes  to  announce  to  his  master  that  the  vessel  has 
arrived  in  Egypt,  close  to  the  place  where  the  Court  resides,  and 
he  invites  him  to  take  precautions  before  presenting  himself  to 
Pharaoh.  As  the  ship  on  which  the  expedition  sailed  had  been  lost 
on  the  way,  the  master,  rescued  by  the  ship  that  brought  him  to 
Egypt,  would  certainly  be  closely  examined,  and  condemned  if  it 
should  be  found  that  the  disaster  was  due  to  some  serious  mistake 
on  his  part ;  as  in  a  similar  case  our  naval  officers  are  tried  by  court 
martial.  The  scribe,  in  order  to  reassure  him  as  to  the  result  of  the 
enquiry,  teUs  him  how  he  himself  had  been  able  to  escape  from 
a    simOar   position    with    advantage    to    himself.     Sethe   thinks 


100  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

that  the  scene  is  laid  in  Elephantine,  and  that  therefore  the 
Court  resided  there  {Bemerkungen  in  Zeitschrift,  1908,  vol.  xliv, 
pp.  81,  82),  which  led  Gardiner  to  question  whether  in  this  narrative 
we  had  not  a  survival  of  a  cycle  of  Elephantine  tales  (Notes  on 
the  Tale  of  the  Shipwrecked  Sailor,  in  Zeitschrift,  1908,  vol.  xliv, 
pp.  60,  899). 

The  wise  servant  said:  "May  thy  heart  be  sound,  my 
lord,  for  behold  we  have  arrived  at  the  country.  One  has 
taken  the  mallet  and  driven  in  the  stake,  the  rope  has  been 
fixed  ashore,  the  acclamation  has  been  shouted,  the  god  has 
been  adored  ^ ;  and  each  one  embraces  his  comrade,  and  the 
crowd  of  us  shout  '  Good  arrival.'  None  of  our  soldiers  are 
missing,  although  we  reached  the  farthest  parts  of  the 
country  of  Wawait;  we  have  passed  Sanmuit,^  and  now 
behold  we  have  returned  in  peace,  and  arrive  here  at  our 
country.  Hearken,  my  prince,  for  I  exaggerate  in  nothing. 
Wash  thyself,  pour  water  over  thy  fingers,  then  answer  when 
thou  art  invited  to  speak.  Speak  to  the  King  with  all  thy 
heart,  reply  without  being  disconcerted,  for  though  the 
mouth  of  man  saves  him,  yet  his  speech  may  cause  veiling 
of  the  face.'  Do  according  to  the  movements  of  thy  heart 
and  let  that  which  thou  sayest  be  a  pacification.* 

"  Now  I  will  relate  to  thee  an  account  of  a  similar  ad- 
venture that  happened  to  me  myself,  when  I  went  to  the 
mines  of  the  Sovereign,  and  went  down  to  the  sea  in  a  ship 

'  Cf.  Maspero,  Note  sur  le  Conte  du  Natifragi,  in  the  Reoueil  de 
Travaux,  vol.  xxix.  pp.  106-108. 

'  The  country  of  Wawait  is  the  part  of  Nubia  situated  beyond  the 
second  cataract ;  Sanmuit  is  the  name  attributed  by  the  monuments  to 
the  island  of  Bigeh,  opposite  Philje,  at  the  entrance  to  the  first  cataract. 
From  this  passage  it  appears  that  the  Egyptian  sailor  boasted  of  having 
reached  the  southern  frontier  of  Egypt  by  passing  from  the  Eed  Sea  into 
the  Nile  (cf.  Introduction,  pp.  kxi,  Ixxii). 

'  There  is  here,  I  think,  an  allusion  to  the  custom  of  covering  the  face 
of  criminals  when  led  to  execution.  The  order  "  let  hU  face  be  covered  " 
was  equivalent  to  condemnation. 

*  In  other  words,  his  speech  should  be  framed  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
appease  the  wrath  of  the  King  and  lead  to  the  acquittal  of  the  shipwrecked 


THE   SHIPWRECKED   SAILOR  101 

a  hundred  and  fifty  cubits  long,  and  forty  cubits  broad.  It 
carried  five  hundred  sailors  of  the  best  of  the  land  of  Egypt, 
who  had  seen  the  sky,  who  had  seen  the  earth,  and  who 
were  bolder  of  heart  than  lions.^  They  were  persuaded  that 
the  wind  would  not  come,  that  disaster  would  not  be  pro- 
duced, but  the  wind  arose  while  we  were  in  the  open,  and 
before  we  had  reached  the  land  itself  the  gale  increased 
and  raised  a  wave  of  eight  cubits.  I  seized  a  plank ;  as  to 
the  ship,  it  perished,  and  of  those  on  board  not  one  was  left. 
For  me,  I  landed  on  an  island,  and  that  was  thanks  to  a 
wave  of  the  sea.  I  spent  three  days  alone,  with  no  other 
companion  than  my  heart,  and  at  night  I  lay  in  the  hollow 
of  a  tree  and  embraced  the  shade,  then  [by  day]  I  stretched 
my  limbs  to  seek  something  to  put  in  my  mouth.  I  found 
there  figs  and  grapes,  magnificent  leeks,  berries  and  seeds, 
melons  at  will,  fish,  and  birds;  there  is  nothing  that  was 
not  there.  I  satisfied  my  hunger,  and  I  left  on  the  ground 
the  superfluity  of  that  with  which  my  hands  were  filled; 
I  made  a  fire-striker,  I  lighted  a  fire,^  and  I  offered  a  burnt 
offering  to  the  gods.' 

'  If  we  admit  that  tbe  royal  cubit  of  52  centimetres  is  here  referred  to, 
the  vessel  must  have  measured  about  78  metres  in  length  and  21  in 
breadth,  which  even  when  taking  into  account  the  fact  that  these  Egyptian 
ships  were  very  large  must  still  give  us  very  exaggerated  dimensions.  The 
ships  of  Queen  HStshopsuitu  built  for  the  expedition  were  not  more  than 
22  metres  in  length,  and  they  must  have  carried  a  crew  of  about  fifty  men 
(Maspero,  De  quelquei  Tiavigations  des  Egyptiens,  pp.  11,  16,  17).  Thus 
the  vessel  of  our  story  belongs,  both  in  size  and  the  number  of  the  sailors, 
to  the  class  of  fictitious  ships  of  which  there  are  plenty  of  examples  in 
the  popular  literature  of  all  countries. 

'  Cf.  Ungnad,  der  Fevsrhohrer,  in  ZeiUchrift,  1906,  vol.  xliii,  pp.  161, 162. 

'  The  appearance  of  the  lord  of  the  island  occurs  after  the  fire  is 
lighted.  Invocations  only  produce  their  effect  if  a  perfume  is  burnt,  or 
any  substance  which  is  prepared  according  to  regulations.  The  passage 
which  Gol^nischeff  regards  as  referring  merely  to  a  sacrifice  should  perhaps 
be  taken  in  this  sense,  and  the  ceremony  indicated  in  the  text  considered 
as  an  actual  invocation  ;  or  we  may  confine  ourselves  to  admitting  that 
among  the  mass  of  plants  used  by  the  shipwrecked  sailor  for  lighting  his 
sacrificial  fire  there  may  have  been  some  that  acted  as  a  summons  to  the 
genius  of  the  island,  while  he  himself  had  no  intention  of  performing  a 
magic  rite. 

12 


102  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

"  Lo,  T  heard  a  voice  like  thunder,  and  I  thought,  '  it  is 
a  wave  of  the  sea.'  The  trees  creaked,  the  earth  trembled.^ 
I  uncovered  my  face,  and  I  knew  that  it  was  a  serpent  that 
came,  thirty  cubits  long,  with  a  great  tail  of  two  cubits ; 
his  body  was  inlaid  with  gold,  his  two  eyebrows  were  of  real 
lapis,  and  he  was  yet  more  perfect  on  the  side  than  in  front. 
He  opened  his  mouth  against  me ;  while  I  lay  on  my  belly 
before  him  he  said  to  me,  '  Who  has  brought  thee,  who  has 
brought  thee,  vassal,  who  has  brought  thee  ?  If  thou  dost 
delay  to  tell  me  who  has  brought  thee  to  this  island,  I  shall 
make  thee  to  know  how,  reduced  to  ashes,  it  is  possible  to 
become  invisible.'  '  Thou  speakest  to  me,  and  I  do  not  hear 
thee  ;  I  am  before  thee  without  consciousness.' "  He  then  took 
me  in  his  mouth,  he  carried  me  to  his  lair  and  laid  me 
down  there  without  my  receiving  any  injury;  I  was  safe 
and  sound,  and  none  [of  my  limbs]  had  been  taken  away. 

"  Then,  after  he  had  opened  his  mouth  while  I  lay  on  my 
belly  before  him,  behold  he  said  to  me,  '  Who  has  brought 
thee,  who  has  brought  thee,  vassal,  to  this  island  of  the  sea, 
the  two  shores  of  which  are  bathed  in  the  waves  ? ' '  I 
answered  him  thus,  my  hands  hanging  down  before  him,^ 
and  I  said  to  him,  '  I  am  one  who  was  going  down  to  the 
mines,  on  a  mission  from  my  sovereign,  on  a  vessel  a  hundred 
and  fifty  cubits  long  and  forty  broad ;  it  carried  five  hundred 
sailors  of  the  best  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  who  had  seen  the 
sky,  who  had  seen  the  earth,  and  who  were  bolder  of  heart 
than  lions.     They  were  persuaded  that  the  wind  would  not 

'  Cf.  GolSnisoheff's  commentary  on  this  thunderous  arrival  of  the  king 
of  the  island  (Le  Papyrus  No.  1115,  in  Becueil,  vol.  xxviii,  pp.  93-95). 

^  The  shipwrecked  man  here  abruptly  begins  to  speak,  to  excuse  himself 
for  not  having  replied  to  the  inquiries  of  the  serpent.  Fear  had  deprived 
him  of  the  use  of  his  senses,  and  he  could  not  hear  what  was  said  to  him. 
Cf.  a  similar  passage  in  Sinuhit,  p.  92. 

'  Sethe  {Bemerkungen  zur  Geschichte  des  Schiffhriichigen,  in  Zeitschrift, 
1908,  vol.  xliv,  pp.  83-84)  suggests  that  a  floating  island  should  be  recog- 
nised as  "  that  island  of  the  sea  half  of  which  turns  into  surge." 

'  This  is  the  posture  in  which  suppliants  or  inferiors  are  depicted  on  the 
monuments  before  their  lords. 


THE   SHIPWRECKED   SAILOR  103 

come,  that  disaster  would  not  be  produced ;  each  of  them 
was  bolder  of  heart  and  more  powerful  of  arm  than  his 
companions,  and  there  were  no  cowards  among  them.  But 
the  wind  arose  while  we  were  in  the  open,  and  before  we 
had  reached  the  land  the  gale  increased— it  raised  a  wave  of 
eight  cubits.  A  plank  I  seized ;  as  to  the  vessel,  it  perished, 
and  of  those  who  were  on  board  not  one  was  left  except 
myself  alone,  and  now  I  am  here  near  to  thee.  For  me,  I 
landed  on  this  island,  and  it  was  thanks  to  a  wave  of  the  sea.' 
"  He  said  to  me,  '  Fear  not,  fear  not,  vassal ;  fear  not,  and 
be  not  sad  of  visage.  If  thou  comest  to  me  it  is  because 
God  has  permitted  thee  to  survive,  and  he  has  led  thee  to 
this  Isle  of  the  Double,'  where  there  is  nothing  that  is  not 
found  here,  and  which  is  full  of  all  good  things.  Behold, 
thou  wilt  pass  month  after  month  until  thou  wilt  have 
sojourned  four  months  in  this  island,  and  then  a  vessel  shall 
come  from  the  country  with  sailors  whom  thou  knowest ; 
thou  shalt  go  with  them  to  the  land,  and  thou  shalt  die  in 
thy  city.^  When  sorrows  are  passed,  it  is  delight  to  tell  of 
what  one  has  tasted ;  I  will  give  thee  an  exact  account  of 
what  is  in  this  island.     I  am  here  with  my  brothers  and  my 

'  The  double  is  the  Egyptian  soul.  The  Island  of  the  Double  is  therefore 
an  island  inhabited  by  happy  souls,  one  of  those  Fortunate  Isles  men- 
tioned in  the  Introduction,  pp.  Ixxii,  Ixxiii.  GoMnischefE  declines  to  regard 
the  term  ka  as  meaning  anything  else  than  spirit,  genius,  and  translates  it 
"this  enchanted  island,  this  isle  of  the  genius  (ie  Papyrus  No.  1115  in 
Secueil,  vol.  xxviii,  p.  98),  but  the  Ita  is  not  a  genius.  Erman  prefers  to 
regard  it  as  the  word  liau,  viands,  provisions,  and  translates  it  "  this 
island  of  provisions "  (^die  Beschichte  des  Schiffbriichi^en,  in  Zeitseli/rift, 
1906,  vol.  xliii,  p.  1). 

^  Golfinisoheffi  considers  that  it  may  be  concluded  from  this  passage  that 
at  the  time  this  story  was  virritten  there  were  regular  services  between 
Egypt  and  the  land  of  Puanlt,  "maintained  by  an  Egyptian  fleet  that 
conveyed  commercial  expeditions  to  Puanit  three  times  in  tJis  year.  It  is  to 
this  fleet,  no  doubt  well  known  to  his  fellow  citizens,  that  the  narrator 
alludes,  and  very  probably  the  hero  is  supposed  to  await  their  periodic 
return"  (_Le Papyrus  No.  1115,  in  Receuil,  vol.  xxviii,  p.  96).  It  is  very 
possible,  but,  considering  the  marvellous  character  of  the  story,  it  is  better 
to  regard  this  as  another  case  of  the  prescience  I  have  called  attention  to 
above,  p.  13,  note  2. 


104  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

children,  in  the  midst  of  them  ;  we  are  of  the  number  of 
seventy-five  serpents,  my  children  and  my  brothers,  and 
still  I  do  not  mention  a  girl  who  was  brought  to  me 
by  art  magic.^  For  a  star  having  fallen,^  those  who  were 
in  the  fire  with  her  came  out  of  it,  and  the  young  girl 
appeared  without  my  being  with  the  beings  of  the  flame, 
without  my  being  in  the  midst  of  them ;  without  which  I 
should  have  been  dead  by  their  deed,  but  I  found  her  after- 
wards, alone,  among  the  corpses.'  If  thou  art  courageous 
and  thy  heart  is  strong  thou  shalt  press  thy  children  to  thy 
bosom,  thou  shalt  embrace  thy  wife,*  thou  shalt  see  thy 
house,  and  that  which  is  of  more  value  than  all,  thou  shalt 
reach  thy  country  and  thou  shalt  be  among  thy  brethren.' 

'  Goleniscbeff  supposes,  with  very  good  reason,  that  the  episode  of  the 
girl  is  a  very  much  shortened  and  unintelligible  redaction  of  a  dififerent 
story  in  which  she  played  the  principal  part  (ie  Papyrus  No.  1115,  in 
Recueil,  vol.  xxviii,  p.  100).  This  hypothesis  has  been  adopted  by  Erman 
(die  GescMcMe  des  SchiffbrilcTiigen,  in  Zeitschrift,  1906,  vol.  xliii;  pp.  106, 
107); 

^  This  is  the  only  mention  of  a  falling  star  that  has  yet  been  found  in 
the  texts.  It  shows  the  idea  held  by  the  Egyptians  of  this  phenomenon. 
They  considered  the  mass  as  inhabited  by  genii,  who  came  out  of  it  as  it 
fell  to  earth  and  were  consumed  in  their  own  flames.  The  incident  of  the 
young  girl  appears  to  show  that  they  believed  that  certain  of  these  genii 
could  survive  and  acclimatise  themselves  on  our  earth.  Gol6nischeff  com- 
pares this  episode  with  the  Arab  legend  of  the  Burnt  Island,  situated  in 
the  sea  of  the  Zingis  (Dinkas),  which  is  reduced  to  ashes  about  every  thirty 
years  by  a  maleficent  comet  (JLe  Papyrus  Ko.  1115,  in  Recueil,  vol.  xxviii, 
pp.  101,  102). 

'  The  text  is  too  concise  to  be  clear,  and  various  explanations  have  been 
proposed  for  it,  especially  by  Sethe  {Bemerhxmgen,  in  Zeitschrift,  vol.  xliv, 
pp.  84,  85),  and  by  Gardiner  (Notea,  in  Zeitschrift,  vol.  xlv,  p.  65). 
Golteischeff  thinks  the  girl  no  longer  existed  when  the  serpentwas  describing 
her  birth,  and  that  she  had  been  reduced  to  ashes  by  the  flames  of  the 
falling  star(ie  Papyrus  No.  1115,  m  Recueil,  vol.  xxviii,  p.  101).  It  appears 
to  me,  on  the  contrary,  that  she  was  still  living,  but  tbat  the  serpent  was 
apologising  for  not  being  able  to  describe  the  manner  of  her  birth.  He 
could  not  approach  the  spot  where  the  star  had  fallen  until  the  fire  caused 
by  it  had  died  out,  when  he  found  the  girl  alone  among  the  corpses,  and 
did  not  himself  see  the  manner  of  her  entry  into  the  world. 

*  The  text  says:  "Thou  shalt  smell  thy  wife.''  The  bas-reliefs  (Guide 
to  the  Cairo  Museum,  5th  edition,  1910,  p.  88)  show  us  the  action  that  took 
the  place  of  the  kiss  among  the  Egyptians  ;  the  king  and  the  deity  place 
themselves  nose  to  nose  and  breathe  one  another's  breath. 


THE   SHIPWRECKED   SAILOR  105 

Then  I  stretched  myself  on  my  belly,  I  touched  the  ground 
before  him,  and  I  said  to  him,  '  I  shall  describe  thy  souls  ^ 
to  the  Sovereign,  I  shall  cause  him  to  know  thy  greatness, 
and  I  shall  present  to  thee  cosmetics,  perfume  of  acclama- 
tion,^ pomade,  cassia,  and  the  incense  of  the  temples,  by 
which  one  acquires  the  favour  of  every  god.  I  shall  tell 
also  what  has  befeUen  me,  and  that  which  I  have  seen  of 
thy  souls,  and  thou  wilt  be  adorned  in  thy  city  in  presence 
of  aU  the  arbitrators  of  the  Entire  Land ;  I  will  slay  bulls 
for  thee,  to  be  put  to  the  fire,  I  will  throttle  birds  for  thee, 
and  I  will  cause  vessels  to  be  brought  to  thee  laden  with  all 
the  riches  of  Egypt,  as  is  done  for  a  god,  friend  of  men  in 
a  distant  land  that  men  know  not.'  He  laughed  at  me  for 
that  I  said,  and  because  of  that  he  had  in  his  heart,  he  said 
to  me,  '  Hast  thou  not  [here  before  thine  eyes]  abundance 
of  myrrh,  and  everything  here  is  of  incense,  for  I  am  the 
king  of  the  land  of  Puanit,'  and  I  have  myrrh ;  that  perfume 
of  acclaynation  that  thou  speakest  of  sending  me,  that  alone 
is  not  abundant  in  this  island.  But  it  will  chance  that  as 
soon  as  thou  art  departed  from  this  place  thou  wilt  never 
behold    this    island    again — it    will    transform    itself    into 


'  The  gods  and  the  kings  of  Egypt  had  several  souls.  Ea  the  Sun  had 
seven,  it  is  said.  The  shipwrecked  man  treats  the  serpent  as  an  Egyptian 
divinity,  and  speaks  of  his  souls  out  of  compliment  to  him.  Each  of  the 
souls  corresponds  to  some  quality  or  sense,  and  to  describe  the  souls  of  a 
personage  was  to  portray  him  physically  and  morally. 

^  The  perfume  of  acclamation,  Hakanu,  was  one  of  the  seven  ritual  oils 
offered  to  the  gods  and  the  dead  during  sacrifices.  Its  composition  is  not 
known ;  the  name  is  probably  derived  from  the  invocations  that  attended 
its  manufacture  or  presentation. 

'  Puanit  is  the  name  of  districts  situated  to  the  south-west  of  Egypt, 
first  as  far  up  as  Sauakin  and  MassSwah,  and  later  on  the  two  banks  of 
Bab-el-Mandeb,  in  the  country  of  the  Somalis,  and  in  Yemen.  It  was  from 
there  that  the  Egyptians  early  obtained  the  most  highly  esteemed  of  the 
perfumes  employed  in  their  cult. 

*  The  opposition  of  the  serpent  to  the  proposal  of  the  shipwrecked  man 
to  give  him  gifts  was  only  natural.  Even  had  the  g'ifts  been  to  his  liking 
he  could  not  have  accepted  them,  for  as  the  isle  was  to  disappear  the 
messengers  to  be  sent  would  be  unable  to  find  it. 


106  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

"  And  lo !  the  vessel  came  as  he  had  predicted  beforehand ; 
I  went  therefore,  I  perched  myself  on  a  high  tree,  and  1 
recognised  those  who  were  there.^  I  went  at  once  to  tell 
him  the  news,  and  he  said  to  me,  'Good  luck,  good  luck, 
vassal,  to  thy  home,  see  thy  children,  and  may  thy  name 
be  good  in  thy  city;  those  are  my  good  wishes  for  thee.' 
Then  I  lay  down  on  my  belly,  my  hands  hanging  down, 
before  him,  and  he  gave  me  gifts  of  myrrh,  perfume  of 
acclamation,  pomade,  cassia,  pepper,  cosmetics,  powder  of 
antimony,  cypress,  a  quantity  of  incense,  hippopotam,us  tails, 
elephants'  teeth,  greyhounds,  cynocephali,  giraffes,  and  all 
excellent  riches.^  I  loaded  the  whole  on  that  ship ;  I  then 
stretched  myself  on  my  belly,  and  I  worshipped  the  serpent. 
He  said  to  me,  '  Behold,  thou  shalt  arrive  at  the  country  in 
two  months,  thou  shalt  press  thy  infants  to  thy  bosom,  and 
in  due  time  thou  shalt  go  to  renew  thy  youth  in  thy  tomb.' 
And  lo !  I  went  down  to  the  shore  at  the  place  where  the 
vessel  was,  and  I  called  the  soldiers  who  were  in  that  vessel. 
I  offered  thanksgiving  on  the  shore  to  the  lord  of  that  island, 
and  they  of  the  vessel  did  likewise. 

"  We  returned  to  the  north,  to  the  residence  of  the 
Sovereign ;  we  arrived  at  the  palace  in  the  second  month, 
according  to  all  that  the  serpent  had  said.  I  entered  before 
the  Sovereign,  and  I  presented  to  him  the  gifts  I  had  brought 
from  that  island,  and  he  made  much  of  me  in  the  presence 

'  Evidently  the  narrator  was  aware  that  the  sailors  were  those  with 
whom  he  had  started  from  Egypt,  and  who  had  perished  in  the  shipwreck 
(of.  pp.  101,  103).  It  is  an  additional  miracle,  but  not  sarprising  when  it 
occurs  in  a  story  so  replete  with  marvels.  We  shall  see  later,  in  the  first 
story  o£  Satni  (pp.  139,  140),  that  the  children  of  the  hero,  slain  and  cast  to 
the  dogs,  reappear,  living,  at  Memphis. 

2  This  enumeration,  strange  as  it  appears  to  us,  contains  nothing  that  is 
not  authentic.  Almost  exactly  the  same  is  found  at  an  interval  of  over  a 
thousand  years,  on  the  monument  where  Queen  iHatshopsultu  of  the 
XVIIIth  dynasty  represents  the  vovage  of  discoveryimade  by  an  expedition 
sent  by  her  to  the  land  of  Puantt.  Unfortunately  the  greater  number  of 
the  substances  are  unknown  to  us,  and  we  can  only  transcribe  the  ancient 
names  or  give  the  conjectural  values  that  seem  most  suitable  to  each  term. 


THE    SHIPWRECKED   SAILOR  107 

of  the  nobility  of  the  Entire  Land.  Lo,  he  made  of  me  a 
servant,  and  I  had  fine  slaves  as  recompense.  Bend  thy 
regard  on  me,  now  that  I  have  returned  to  the  land  of  Egypt 
after  I  have  seen  and  tasted  those  trials.  Listen  to  me,  for 
behold,  it  is  good  for  men  to  listen.'^  The  prince  said  to 
me,  '  Do  not  be  malicious,  my  friend.  Who  gives  water  to 
a  goose  on  the  morning  of  the  day  it  is  to  be  killed  ? ' " — 
This  is  finished  from  beginning  to  end,  as  it  was  found  in 
writing.  He  who  has  written  it  is  the  scribe  of  the  skilful 
fingers  Amauni-Amanau,  1.  h.  s. 

'  Here  the  story  told  by  the  scribe  to  encourage  his  hero  comes  to  an 
end ;  and  his  auditor,  who  appears  to  be  far  from  confident  as  to  the  fate 
that  awaits  him,  replies  with  a  proverb  applicable  to  his  position. 


HOW   THUTIYI  TOOK   THE   CITY   OF  JOPPA 

(XXth   DYNASTY) 

The  fragments  of  this  story  cover  the  first  three  pages  that  exist 
of  the  Harris  Papyrus  No.  500,  where  they  immediately  precede  the 
Story  of  the  Doomed  Prince.  Like  the  latter,  it  was  discovered  in 
1874  by  Goodwin,  who  took  it  for  fragments  of  a  historical  narrative, 
and  announced  his  discovery  at  a  meeting  of  the  Society  of  Biblical 
Archaeology,  March  3,  1874  :  Goodwin,  Translation  of  a  Fragment 
of  an  historical  Narrative  relating  to  the  reign  of  Thotmes  the  Third, 
in  the  Transactions  of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Archceology,  1874, 
vol.  iii,  pp.  340-348. 

It  was  subsequently  published  with  facsimile  hieroglyphic  transcrip- 
tion and  translation  by  Maspero,  Comment  Thoutii  prit  la  ville  de 
Joppe  {Journal  asiatiqiie,  1878,  without  the  three  plates  of  hieratic 
text),  and  va.  Etudes  egyptiennes  1879,  vol.  i.  pp.  49-72,  with  the  plates 
of  facsimile.  An  English  translation  is  to  be  found  in  Flinders 
Petrie,  Egyptian  Tales,  vol.  ii,  pp.  1-12,  and  a  German  translation  in 
A.  Wiedemann,  Altagyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  small  8vo,  Leipzig, 
1906,  pp.  112-117. 

The  beginning  is  lost.  At  the  point  where  we  take  up  the  story, 
there  are  three  personages  in  the  scene :  an  Egyptian  officer 
named  Thutiyi,  the  prince  of  a  Syrian  town  and  his  equerry.  The 
name  of  the  country  where  the  action  is  laid  in  that  part  of  the  story 
which  is  still  preserved  was  read  by  Goodwin  as  Imu,  and  identified 
by  him  with  the  Emim  of  the  Bible  (Genesis  xiv,  5,  Deut.  ii,  10,  11). 
The  real  form  is  J6pu,  or  according  to  Greek  orthography  Joppa. 
This  reading  has  been  objected  to  in  its  turn  (Wiedemann,  ^giyp^iscAe 
Geschichte,  pp.  69-70)  ;  it  is  however  certain,  notwithstanding  the 
lacunae  in  the  papyrus  and  the  cursive  form  of  the  writing  (Maspero, 
Notes  sur  quelqties  points  de  Grammaire,  in  Zeitschrift,  1883,  p.  90). 

Birch,  without  entirely  rejecting  the  authenticity  of  the  narrative, 
suggested  that  it  might  be  only  a  fragment  of  a  tale  {Egypt  from 
the  earliest  times  to  B.C.  300,  pp.  103,  104).  I  have  reconstructed 
the  beginning  by  assuming  that  the  trick  employed  by  Thutiyi, 
with  the  exception  of  the  episode  of  the  jars,  which  recalls  the  history 

108 


HOW  THUTIYI  TOOK  THE   CITY  OF   JOPPA     109 

of  Ali  Baba  in  the  Arabian  Nights,  is  a  variant  of  the  stratagem 
attributed  by  Persian  legend  to  Zopyre  (cf.  Introduction,  p.  xxxi). 
Here,  as  in  the  earlier  reconstructions,  I  have  confined  myself 
to  using  no  expressions  except  those  borrowed  from  other  stories 
or  from  monuments  of  a  good  period.  I  make  no  pretensions  to 
having  restored  the  lost  portion  of  the  work.  I  have  simply 
attempted  to  sketch  out  a  probable  introduction  that  will  enable 
readers  who  are  not  acquainted  with  Egyptology  to  understand  the 
meaning  of  the  fragment  with  greater  ease. 

There  was  once  in  the  land  of  Egypt  a  general  of 
infantry,  Thutiyi  was  his  name.  He  followed  the  king 
Manakhpiriya,^  1.  h.  s.,  on  all  his  marches  to  the  lands  of 
the  South  and  the  North,^  he  fought  at  the  head  of  his 
soldiers,  he  knew  all  the  stratagems  that  are  employed  in 
war,  and  he  received  every  day  the  gold  of  valour,^  for 
he  was  an  excellent  general  of  infantry,  and  he  had  not 
his  equal  in  the  Entire  Land ;  this  is  what  he  did. 

And  many  days  after  that  a  messenger  came  from  the 
country  of  Kharu,'*  and  he  was  conducted  into  the  presence 
of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  and  His  Majesty  said  to  him,  "  Who 
hath  sent  thee  to  My  Majesty  ?  wherefore  hast  thou  jour- 
neyed?" The  messenger  replied  to  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s., 
"  It  is  the  Grovernor  of  the  land  of  the  North  who  sent  me 
to    thee,    saying,    the    vanquished    of    Jopu^   has  revolted 

'  Manakbpirriya  is  the  royal  prenomen  of  the  Pharaoh  Thutm6sis  III  of 
the  XVIIIth  dynasty.  The  pronunciation  I  attribute  to  it  Is  justified  by 
the  abridged  transcription  Manakhblya,  which  occurs  in  the  Bl-Amarna 
letters. 

2  This  is  a  frequent  formula  on  Egyptian  monuments  of  the  time,  "  he 
who  followed  his  lord  in  all  his  expeditions,"  to  which  the  variants  add,  "  in 
all  his  expeditions  to  the  south  and  to  the  north." 

'  The  autobiographies  of  Ahmasi-si-Abna  and  of  Amenemhabi  tell  of 
the  rewards  given  by  the  Egyptian  kings  to  those  of  their  generals  who 
had  distinguished  themselves  in  warfare.  Slaves,  male  and  female,  were 
given  them,  objects  taken  as  booty,  or  gold  in  rings,  which  was  called  gold 
ofvalour. 

*  The  land  of  Kharu  corresponds  to  Palestine,  or  at  least  to  that  part  of 
Palestine  which  is  situated  between  Jordan  and  the  sea. 

'  In  the  official  language  of  Egypt  all  strangers  received  the  title  of 
Pa  Jihiri,  the  falling,  the  overthroion  ;  Pa  khiri  ni  Khati,  the  overthrown 
of  Khati  ;  Pa  Khiri  ni  Timimi,  the  overthrown  of  Timipu  ;  Pa  khiri  ni  Jopu, 


110  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

against  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  and  he  has  massacred  the 
foot-soldiers  of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  also  his  charioteers, 
and  no  one  can  stand  against  him.'' 

When  the  king  Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  heard  all  the  words 
that  the  messenger  had  said  to  him,  he  fell  into  a  rage 
like  a  cheetah  of  the  south.'  "By  my  life,  by  the  favour 
of  Ea,  by  the  love  borne  for  me  by  my  father  Amon,  I 
will  destroy  the  city  of  the  vanquished  of  Jopu,  I  will 
make  him  feel  the  weight  of  my  arm." 

He  called  his  nobles,  his  captains  of  war,  also  his 
magician-scribes,  and  repeated  to  them  the  message  that 
the  Governor  of  the  land  of  the  North  had  sent  him.  Lo  ! 
they  were  all  silent  with  one  mouth,  they  knew  not  what 
to  reply,  either  good  or  evil.  But  Thutiyi  said  to  His 
Majesty,  1.  h.  s. :  "  Oh  thou  to  whom  the  Entire  Land 
pays  homage,  command  that  there  be  given  me  the  great 
staff  of  the  King  Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  the  name  of  which 
is  .  .  .  tiutnofrit.^  Command  also  that  there  be  given  me 
foot-soldiers  of  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  also  charioteers  of  the 
flower  of  the  brave  ones  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  I  will 
slay  the  vanquished  of  Jopu,  I  will  take  his  city."  His 
Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  said,  "  It  is  excellent,  excellent,  that  which 
thou  hast  spoken."  And  the  great  staff  of  the  King 
Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  was  given  to  him,  and  foot-soldiers 

the  overthroiim  of  Jappa,  or   the  vanquished,  of  Joppa.     Of.  Introduction, 

p.   XXX. 

'  This  is  one  of  the  formulae  used  to  denote  the  impression  produced  on 
the  king  by  some  disastrous  event.  Of.  the  Stela  of  Paenelihi,  1.  27,  etc., 
and  also  above,  the  Tale  of  Two  Brothers,  pp.  6,  7,  note  3. 

2  The  first  words  that  formed  the  name  of  this  staff  are  destroyed.  Not 
only  the  king's  walking-stick,  but  also  those  of  ordinary  folk  had  each  its 
special  name.  This  is  shown  by  the  inscriptions  borne  by  various  staffs 
found  in  the  tombs  and  preserved  in  our  museums.  It  appears  that  the 
Egyptians  accorded  a  real  personality,  and  a  kind  of  double,  to  the  natural 
and  manufactured  objects  by  which  they  were  surrounded  ;  at  any  rate  a 
proper  name  was  assigned  to  each  of  them.  This  custom  was  carried  so 
far  that  the  various  parts  of  one  object  occasionally  received  each  a  distinct 
name  ;  for  instance,  the  cover  of  a  sarcophagus  would  have  a  surname 
different  from  that  of  the  sarcophagus  itself. 


HOW  THDTIYI  TOOK  THE   CITY   OF   JOPPA     111 

were    given    to    him   and   the    charioteers   which    he    had 
asked  for. 

And  many  days  after  that,  Thutiyi  was  in  the  country 
of  Kharu  with  his  men.  He  caused  a  great  sack  of  skin 
to  be  made  which  would  hold  a  man,  he  had  iron  shackles 
forged  for  feet  and  hands,  he  had  a  great  pair  of  shackles 
with  four  rings,  and  many  wooden  fetters  and  collars,  and 
five  hundred  large  jars.  When  all  was  ready  he  sent  word 
to  the  vanquished  of  Jopu :  "  I  am  Thutiyi,  the  general  of 
infantry  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  I  have  followed  His 
Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  in  all  his  marches  to  the  lands  of  the 
North  and  the  lands  of  the  South.  But  lo !  now,  the  King 
Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  has  been  jealous  of  me  because  I 
am  a  hero,  and  wished  to  kill  me,  but  I  fled  before  him, 
and  I  have  brought  the  great  staff  of  the  King  Manakh- 
pirriya, 1.  h.  s.,  and  I  have  hidden  it  in  the  baskets  of 
forage  for  my  horses,  and  if  thou  wilt,  I  will  give  it  thee, 
and  I  will  be  with  thee,  I  and  the  people  who  are  with  me 
of  the  flower  of  the  brave  ones  of  the  army  of  Egypt." 
When  the  vanquished  of  Jopu  heard  this  he  rejoiced 
greatly,  greatly,  for  the  words  that  Thutiyi  had  spoken,  for 
he  knew  that  Thutiyi  was  a  hero  who  had  not  his  equal 
in  the  Entire  Land.  He  sent  to  Thutiyi  saying,  "  Come 
with  me,  and  I  will  be  to  thee  as  a  brother,  and  I  will 
give  thee  a  piece  of  land  chosen  from  what  is  the  best  of 
the  country  of  Jopu."^ 

The  vanquished  of  Jopu  came  out  of  his  city  with  his 
equerry,  and  with  the  women  and  children  of  the  city,  and 
he  came  before  Thutiyi.  He  took  him  by  the  hand  and 
embraced  him  and  caused  him  to  come  into  his  camp,  but 
he  did  not  cause  the  companions  of  Thutiyi  and  their  horses 

'  To  reconstruct  this  part  of  the  text,  I  have  made  use  of  the  analogous 
position  that  occurs  in  the  story  of  Sinuhit.  We  have  seen  (pp.  77,  80). 
the  manner  in  which  the  prince  of  Kadima  received  the  hero  of  the  story, 
and  in  a  general  way  the  welcome  given  to  Egyptians,  whether  exiles 
or  refugees,  by  the  petty  Asiatic  chiefs. 


112  STORIES   OF   vmCIENT   EGYPT 

to  enter  with  him.  He  gave  him  bread,  he  ate,  he  drank 
with  him,  and  he  said  to  him  in  the  way  of  conversation, 
"  The  great  staff  of  the  king  Manakhpirriya,'  what  is  it  ?  " 
Now  Thutiyi,  before  entering  the  camp  of  the  city  of  Jopu, 
had  taken  the  great  staff  of  the  king  Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.  ; 
he  had  hidden  it  in  the  forage  which  he  had  placed  in  ^  the 
baskets,  and  he  had  arranged  them  as  the  baskets  of  forage 
are  arranged  for  the  chariotry  of  Egypt.  Now  while  the 
vanquished  of  Jopu  drank  with  Thutiyi,  the  people  who  were 
with  him  were  amusing  themselves  with  the  foot-soldiers  of 
Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  and  were  drinking  with  them.  And  after 
they  had  passed  their  hour  of  drinking,  Thutiyi  said  to  the 
vanquished  of  Jopu,  "  If  it  please  thee,  while  I  remain  here 
with  the  women  and  children  of  thy  city,  allow  my  companions 
to  enter  with  their  horses  to  give  them  provender,  or  that  an 
Apuriu '  may  hasten  to  the  place  where  they  are."  They 
were  made  to  enter,  the  horses  were  hobbled,  their  provender 
was  given  them,  and  the  great  staff  of  King  Manakhpirriya, 
1.  h.  s.,  was  found,  and  one  went  to  tell  Thutiyi. 

And  after  that  the  vanquished  of  Jopu  said  to  Thutiyi : 
"  My  desire  is  to  behold  the  great  staff  of  the  King  Manakh- 
pirriya, 1.  h.  s.,  the  name  of  which  is  .  .  .  tiut-nofrit.  By 
the  doii^le  *  of  the  King  Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  since  it  is 
with  thee  this  day,  that  great  excellent  staff,  bring  it  to 
me."  Thutiyi  did  as  he  said,  he  brought  the  staff  of  the 
King   Manakhpirriya,    1.  h.  s.,    he  seized   the  vanquished  of 

'  It  is  probable  that  the  stail  had  some  magic  virtue.  That  would 
explain  the  desire  shown  by  the  prince  to  possess  it,  no  doubt  in  the  hope 
that  it  would  render  him  invincible. 

^  It  is  at  this  point  that  the  fragment  of  the  manuscript  commences. 

'  M.  Chabas  believed  that  he  recognised  in  this  name  that  of  the 
Hebrews.  Various  circumstances  prevent  my  accepting  this  hypothesis 
and  the  conclusions  too  hastily  drawn  from  it. 

'  The  double  of  the  king  is  represented  as  an  emblem  formed  of  two 
upraised  arms,  between  which  are  placed  the  titles  that  compose  the  name 
of  tile  double  of  the  king.  This  is  inaccurately  called  the  royal  banner. 
It  is  placed  upright  on  a  flagstafE,  and  figures  in  the  bas-reliefs  behind  tbe 
person  of  Pharaoh  himself. 


HOW  THUTIYI   TOOK  THE   CITY   OF   JOPPA     113 

Jopu  by  his  raiment  and  flung  him  down,  saying,  "  Behold, 
oh  vanquished  of  Jopu,  the  great  staff  of  the  King  Manakh- 
pirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  the  redoubtable  lion,  the  son  of  Sokhit,i  ^q 
whom  Amon  his  father  gives  strength  and  power."  He 
raised  his  hand,  he  struck  the  temple  of  the  vanquished 
of  Jopu,  who  fell  unconscious  before  him.  He  put  him 
in  the  great  sack  he  had  prepared  with  the  skins ;  he 
seized  the  men  who  were  with  him,  he  had  the  pair  of 
iron  shackles  brought  that  he  had  prepared,  with  them 
he  fastened  the  hands  of  the  vanquished  of  Jopu,  and  on 
his  feet  were  placed  the  pair  of  iron  shackles  of  four  rings.^ 
He  had  the  five  hundred  jars  brought  that  he  had  caused 
to  be  made,  he  put  two  hundred  soldiers  into  them;  he 
then  filled  the  belly  of  the  other  three  hundred  with  cords 
and  wooden  fetters.  They  sealed  them  with  a  seal,  they 
covered  them  with  their  covering  and  the  cordage  necessary 
to  carry  them,  and  placed  them  on  as  many  strong  soldiers, 
five  hundred  men  in  all,  and  one  said  to  them,  "  When  you 
shall  enter  the  city,  you  shall  open  the  jars  of  your  com- 
panions, you  shall  seize  all  the  inhabitants  who  are  in  the 
town,  and  you  shall  put  the  fetters  on  them  immediately." 
One  went  out  to  say  to  the  equerry  of  the  vanquished  of 
Jopu,  "  Thy  master  has  fallen  !  Go,  say  to  thy  sovereign 
lady,'  '  Rejoice,  for  Sutekhu  *  has  delivered  Thutiyi  to  us, 

'  Sokhit  (p.  78,  note  1)  is  represented  under  the  form  or  with  the 
head  of  a  lioness,  and  this  peculiarity  explains  why  King  Thutmosts  III, 
regarded  as  her  son,  is  called  in  this  text  a  redoubtable  lion. 

^  It  appears  to  me  that  the  stratagem  consisted,  after  having  killed  the 
prince  of  Jopu,  of  passing  him  off  as  Thutiyi  himself.  The  body  was 
placed  in  a  sack  prepared  beforehand,  so  that  no  one  could  recognise  his 
features  or  limbs  and  detect  the  deception,  and  the  corpse  when  thus 
concealed  was  loaded  with  chains,  as  was  done  with  the  bodies  of  the 
vanqui&hed.  It  is  this  corpse  that  the  equerry  of  the  prince  shows  later 
to  the  inhabitants  of  the  city,  saying  to  them,  "  We  are  masters  of  Thutiyi." 

'  The  wife  of  the  prince,  who  was  not  in  camp  with  her  husband,  but 
had  remained  in  Joppa. 

'  Sutekhu,  Sutekh,  was  the  name  given  by  the  Egyptians  to  the  principal 
gods  of  the  Asiatic  and  Libyan  peoples.  This  appellation  goes  back  to 
the  time  of  the  HyksSs,  and  probably  owes  its  existence  to  the  attempts 


114  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

with  his  wife  and  his  children.'  Behold,  under  the  name 
of  booty  taken  from  them  two  himdred  jars  are  disguised, 
which  are  full  of  men,  wooden  collars  and  fetters.* 

The  equerry  went  at  the  head  of  these  people  to  rejoice 
the  heart  of  his  sovereign  lady  by  saying,  "  We  are  masters 
of  Thutijd ! "  The  fastenings  of  the  city  were  opened  to 
give  passage  to  the  porters ;  they  entered  into  the  city,  they 
opened  the  jars  of  their  companions,  they  took  possession 
of  the  whole  city,  small  and  great ;  they  placed  the  fetters 
and  coUars  at  once  on  the  people  who  lived  there.  When 
the  army  of  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  had  taken  possession  of  the 
city,  Thutiyi  reposed  himself,  and  sent  a  message  to  Egypt 
to  the  King  Manakhpirriya,  1.  h.  s.,  his  lord,  to  say,  "  Eejoice 
thou !  Amon,  thy  father,  has  given  thee  the  vanquished 
of  Jopu  with  all  his  subjects,  and  also  the  city.  Let  men 
come  to  take  them  into  captivity,  that  thou  mayest  fill 
the  house  of  thy  father,  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  with 
slaves  and  maid-servants,  who  shall  be  beneath  thy  two 
feet  for  ever  and  ever." — Is  happily  finished  this  narration, 
by  the  office  of  the  scribe  instructed  in  narrations,  the 
scribe  .... 

made  to  assimilate  the  god  of  the  HyksSs  with  the  gods  of  Egypt.  Baal 
was  identified  with  Sit,  Suti,  and  under  this  mixed  form  he  became 
Sutekhu.  The  word  Sutelihu  appears  to  be  a  grammatical  form  of  the 
radical  sU,  suti ;  it  would  appear  to  be  Egyptian,  and  not  foreign,  in  its 
origin. 

'  The  number  two  hundred  appears  to  be  contradictory  with  that  of  Jive 
hundred  which  is  indicated  previously.  We  must  suppose  that  the  scribe 
had  the  two  hundred  jars  that  contained  the  men  in  his  mind,  and  gave 
this  partial  number  without  remembering  the  total  number  of  five  hundred 


THE    CYCLE    OF    SATNI-KHAMOIS 


THE   ADVENTURE   OF   SATNI-KHAMOtS  WITH  THE   MUMMIES 

The  last  leaf  of  this  story  bears  a  date  of  year  XV  of  a  king 
whose  name  has  never  been  written,  but  who  must  have  been  one 
of  the  Ptolemies.  Two  manuscripts  of  it,  at  least,  exist,  the  frag- 
ments of  which  are  now  in  the  Cairo  Museum.  The  first  was 
discovered  and  published  by  Mariette,  Le&  Papyrus  du  MusSe  de 
Botdaq,  1871,  voL  i,  pi.  29-32,  after  a  facsimile  by  Emile  Brugsch, 
and  then  by  Krall,  Demotische  Lesestucke  1897,  folio,  pi.  29-32, 
from  Mariette's  edition,  collated  with  the  original.  It  was  composed 
of  six  pages  numbered  from  1  to  6 :  the  first  two  are  lost  and  the 
beginnings  of  all  the  lines  of  the  third  are  missing.  The  second 
manuscript  was  discovered  by  Spiegelberg  among  detached  sheets 
brought  from  the  Faylim,  and  was  published  by  him  in  the 
Catalogue  of  the  Cairo  Museum,  Demotische  Denkmdler,  2nd  part, 
die  Demotische  Papyri,  4°,  1906,  Texts  pp.  112-115.  It  is  greatly 
damaged;  and  it  is  rarely  that  we  can  distinguish  a  single  consecu- 
tive sentence  referring  to  the  incidents  of  Satni's  descent  into  the 
tomb  of  Nenoferkephtah.  The  text  of  the  first  manuscript  has  been 
translated  by : 

H.  Brugsch,  Le  Roman  de  Setnau  cuntenu  dans  un  papynis 
demotique  du  Mus^e  egyptien  a  Bovlaq,  in  the  Revue  archeologique, 
2nd  series,  vol.  xvi  (Sept.  1867),  pp.  161-179. 

Lepage-Renouf,  The  Tale  of  Setnau  (from  the  version  of  Dr. 
Heinrich  Brugsch-Bey)  in  Records  of  the  Past,  1875,  1st  series, 
vol.  iv,  pp.  129-148. 

E.  R6villout,  Le  Roman  de  Setna,  Etude  philologigue  et  critique, 
avec  traduction  mot  a  mot  du  texte  demotique,  introduction  historique 
et  commentaire  grammatical,  Paris,  Leroux,  1877-1880,  45,  48, 
224  pp.,  8vo. 

G.  Maspero,  Une  page  du  Roman  de  Satni,  transcrite  en  hiiro- 
glyphes,  in  Zeitschrift  fiir  jEgyptische  Sprache  und  Alterthumskunde, 
1877,  pp.  132  146,  1878,  pp.  15-22. 

G.  Maspero,  translation  of  the  whole  story,  with  the  exception  of 

115 


116  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT   EGYPT 

the  first  eight  lines  of  the  first  existing  sheet,  in  the  Nouveau  Frag- 
ment de  commentaire  sur  le  second  livre  d'  Herodote,  Paris,  Chamerot, 
1879,  8vo,  pp.  22-46.  Bead  at  the  Association  pour  V encouragement 
des  Etudes  grecques  en  France,  May- June  1878.  Published  in 
Annuaire  for  1878. 

H.  Brugsch,  Setna,  ein  Altdgyptische  Roman,  von  H.  Brugsch  Bey, 
Kairo  Sendschreiben  an  D.  Heinrichs  Sachs-Bey  zu  Kairo  in 
Deutsche  Revue  III  (Nov.  1,  1878)  pp.  1-21. 

E.  K6villout,  Le  Roman  de  Setna,  in  Revue  archMogique,  1879. 
Published  separately  by  Didier,  8vo,  24  pp.  and  1  pi. 

Jean-Jacques  Hess,  Der  demotische  Roman  von  Stne  Ha-m-us, 
Text,  translation,  commentary  and  glossary,  1888,  Leipzig,  J.  C. 
Hinrichs,  pp.  18-205. 

Flinders  Petrie,  Egyptian  Tales,  1895,  London,  12mo,  vol.  ii, 
pp.  87-141. 

F.  LI.  Griffith,  The  Story  of  Setna  in  Specimen  Pages  of  the 
World's  Best  Literature,  1898,  New  York,  4to,  pp.  5262-5274. 

F.  LI.  Griffith,  Stories  of  the  High  Priests  of  Memphis,  the  Sethon 
of  Herodotus,  and  the  Demotic  Tales  of  Khamuas,  1900,  Oxford, 
Clarendon  Press,  8vo,  pp.  x-208. 

A.  Wiedemann,  Altdgyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  small  8vo,  1906, 
Leipzig,  pp.  118-146. 

Revillout,  Le  Roman  dit  du  Satme  Khaem,ouas,  in  the  Revue 
egyptologique,  vol  xii,  pp.  110  112,  vol  xiii,  pp.  38-43,  etc. 

The  first  translation  by  Revillout  was  popularised  by  Rosny, 
Tabouhou,  1892,  Paris,  32mo,  in  the  small  Guillaume  collection. 
One  of  the  principal  points  in  the  story,  the  return  to  earth  of  an 
Egyptian  princess,  to  avenge  herself  on  an  enemy,  has  been  utilised 
by  Marie  Corelli  in  one  of  her  strangest  books,  Ziska  Gharmezel. 

The  name  of  the  scribe  who  wrote  this  manuscript  has  been 
commented  on  by  J.  Krall,  Der  Name  des  Schreibers  der  Chamois-Sage 
in  the  volume  of  E tildes  dddides  a  M.  le  professeur  Leemans,  Leyden, 
Brill,  1886,  folio,  and  read  by  him  Ziharpto,  but  this  reading  is  still 
uncertain  ;  the  name  is  known  to  us  from  Ptolemaic  monuments. 

The  beginning,  up  to  the  point  where  the  still  extant  text  of  the 
first  manuscript  commences,  has  been  reconstructed  by  me  as  far  as 
possible  from  the  formulae  employed  in  the  rest  of  the  narrative. 
I  have  also  made  use  of  the  analysis  of  details  that  Spiegelberg 
succeeded  in  extracting  from  the  second  manuscript.  A  note 
indicates  where  the  restitution  ends  and  all  that  remains  of  the 
original  story  commences. 

At  one  time  there  was  a  king  named  Usimares,  L  h.  s.,^  and 

'■  1  remind  the  reader  once  more  that  this  is  a  restitution,  and  that  the 
original  text  of  the  first  two  pages  is  destroyed.  Uasimariya  is  the  pre- 
nomen  of  Ramses  II,  which  the  Greeks  transcribed  Usimares,  from  the 
pronunciation  current  at  the  time  of  the  Ptolemies. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNl-KHAMOIS  WITS  MUMMIES   HI 

this  king  had  a  son  named  Satni-Khamois,  and  the  foster- 
brother  ^  of  Satni-Khamois  was  called  Inaros  by  name.  And 
Satni-Khamois  was  well  instructed  in  all  things.  He  passed 
his  time  wandering  about  the  necropolis  of  Memphis,  to  read 
there  the  books  of  the  sacred  writings  and  the  books  of  the 
Double  House  of  Life,^  and  the  writings  that  are  carved  on  • 
the  stelae  and  on  the  walls  of  the  temples;  he  knew  the 
virtues  of  amulets  and  talismans,  he  understood  how  to  com- 
pose them  and  to  draw  up  powerful  writings,  for  he  was  a 
magician  who  had  no  equal  in  the  land  of  Egypt.' 

Now,  one  day,  when  he  was  walking  in  the  open  court  of 
the  temple  of  Ptah,  reading  the  inscriptions,  behold,  a  man 
of  noble  bearing  who  was  there  began  to  laugh.  Satni  said 
to  him,  "  Wherefore  dost  thou  laugh  at  me  ?  "  The  noble 
said,  "  I  do  not  laugh  at  thee,  but  can  I  refrain  from  laughing 
when  thou  dost  decipher  the  writings  here  which  possess  no 
power  ?  If  thou  desirest  truly  to  read  an  efficacious  writing, 
come  with  me.  I  will  cause  thee  to  go  to  the  place  where 
the  book  is  that  Thoth  wrote  with  his  own  hand,  and  which 
will  put  thee  immediately  below  the  gods.  The  two  formulae 
that  are  written  there,  if  thou  recitest  the  iirst  of  them,  thou 
shalt  charm  the  heaven,  the  earth,  the  world  of  the  night, 

'  Brugsch  read  the  Egyptian  name  An-ha-lwr-rau  (1867)  or  An-lia-Jwr-ru 
(1878),  which  is  a  mere  difference  in  transcription;  GrifiBth  proposed 
Anukh-harer&u  (Stories  of  the  Sigh  Priests  of  Memphis,  pp.  31,  118). 
Spiegelberg  has  shown  (Demotisohen  Miscellen,  in  Recueil  de  Travaux, 
vol.  xxviii,  p.  198;  cf.  die  Demotisehe  Papyri,  text,  p.  114,  note  6,  that 
Eiernharer6a  or  Einhar6u  was  the  prototype  of  the  name  that  was  trans- 
lated Inaros  by  the  Greeks. 

^  That  is  to  say,  the  magic  books  of  the  sacerdotal  library.  We  have 
direct  evidence  of  the  activity  of  the  Egyptian  scholars  and  sorcerers  in 
the  text  published  by  Daressy,  Note  sur  une  inscription  hiiraiique  d'un 
mastaba  d'Aioutir,  extract  from  the  Bulletin  de  VInstitut  Egyptien,  1894. 

'  The  author  of  the  romance  did  not  invent  the  character  of  his  hero 
KhS,muaslt,  Khamols.  He  found  it  ready  to  hand.  In  one  of  the  Louvre 
Papyri  (No.  3248)  there  is  a  series  of  magic  formulae  the  invention  of 
which  is  attributed  to  this  prince.  The  note  giving  this  attribution 
states  that  he  found  the  original  manuscript  under  the  head  of  a  mummy 
in  the  necropolis  of  Memphis,  probably  during  one  of  those  deciphering 
expeditions  spoken  of  in  our  text. 
13 


118  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  mountains,  the  waters ;  thou  shalt  understand  what  all 
the  birds  of  heaven  and  the  reptiles  say,  as  many  as  there 
are.     Thou  shalt  behold  the  fish,  for  a  divine  power  will 
bring  them  to  the  surface  of  the  water.     If  thou  readest  the 
second  formula,  even  when  thou  art  in  the  tomb,  thou  shalt 
resume  the  form  thou  hadst  on  earth ;  thou  shalt  also  behold 
the  sun  rising  in  the  heavens,  and  his  cycle  of  gods,  also  the 
moon  in  the  form  that  she  has  when  she  appears."    Satni  said^ 
"  By  my  life  !  let  it  be  told  me  what  thou  dost  wish  for,  and 
I  will  do  it  for  thee ;  but  lead  me  to  the  place  where  the 
book  is."     The  noble  said  to  Satni,  "  The  book  in  question 
is  not  mine,  it  is  in  the  midst  of  the  necropolis,  in  the  tomb 
of  Nenoferkephtah,  son  of  the  King  Merenephthis,  ^  1.  h.  s. 
Beware  indeed  of  taking  this  book  from  him,  for  he  will  make 
thee  bring  it  back,  a  forked  stick  and  a  staff  in  thy  hand, 
a  lighted  brazier  on  thy  head."     From  the  hour  when  the 
noble  spake  to  Satni,  he  knew  no  longer  in  what  part  of  the 
world  he  was ;  he  went  before  the  king,  and  he  said  before 
the    king  all  the  words    that  the  noble   had  said   to  him. 
The  king  said  to  him,  "  What  dost  thou  desire  ?  "     He  said  to 
the  king,  "  Permit  me  to  go  down  into  the  tomb  of  Nenofer- 
kephtah, son  of  the  King  Merenephthis,  1.  h.  s. ;  I  will  take 
Inaros,  my  foster-brother,  with  me,  and  I  shall  bring  back 
that  book."     He  went  to  the  necropolis  of  Memphis  with 
Inaros,  his  foster-brother.     He  spent  three  days  and  three 
nights  searching  among  the  tombs  which  are  in  the  necropolis 
of  Memphis,  reading  the  stelae  of  the  JDoithle  House  of  Life, 
reciting  the  inscriptions  they  bore.     On  the  third  day  he 
recognised  the  place  where  Nenoferkephtah  was  laid.     When 
they  had  recognised  the  place  where  Nenoferkephtah  was  laid, 

'  Brugsch  finally  read  the  king's  name  Mer-kheper-ptah.  His  first  read- 
ing, Mer-neb-phtah,  or  Mineiphtah,  has  proved  to  be  correct.  Spiegelberg 
has  pointed  out  {Demotische  Papyrus  aus  der  Insel  Elephantine,  p.  9)  the 
Greek  transcriptions,  Berenebthis,  Berenebtis,  Perenebthis,  Pernebthis, 
were  in  accordance  with  a  phenomenon  fairly  freaaeut  in  Egyptian — the 
initial  M  has  become  a  B-P, 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNT-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   119 

Satni  recited  a  writing  over  him ;  a  gap  opened  in  the  ground, 
and  Satni  went  down  to  the  place  where  the  book  was.^ 

[What  he  first  saw  we  do  not  know.  From  the  fragment 
discovered  by  Spiegelberg  it  appears  that  the  man  met  in 
the  forecourt  of  the  temple  of  Ptah  was  Nenoferkephtah 
himself,  who  only  kept  his  wife  and  son  with  him  in  his 
tomb  temporarily,  and  desired  to  have  them  there  perma- 
nently, and  that  he  reckoned  on  making  use  of  Satni  to 
transfer  their  mummies  from  Coptos,  where  they  had 
been  buried,  to  the  Memphite  necropolis.  Satni,  in  too 
much  haste  to  go  down  into  the  tomb,  had  not  fulfilled  all 
the  necessary  rites,  and  could  not  open  the  door.  Nenofer- 
kephtah appeared  to  him  and  pointed  out  to  him  the  expiatory 
sacrifices  demanded  by  the  Manes.  Crows  and  vultures  eon- 
ducted  him  in  safety  to  the  appointed  place,  and  at  the  spot 
on  which  they  settled  there  was  a  stone  that  Satni  raised 
immediately  and  which  masked  the  entrance  to  the  tomb.*] 

When  he  entered,  behold,  it  was  as  light  as  if  the  sun 
shone  there,  for  the  light  came  from  the  book  and  lighted 
all  around.^  And  Nenoferkephtah  was  not  alone  in  the 
tomb,  but  his  wife  Ahuri,  and  Maihet  *  his  son,  were  with 

'  Some  of  the  Hermetic  books  were  supposed  to  have  been  taken  in  this 
way  from  the  tomb  of  the  sage  who  had  written  them,  and  as  early  as  the 
Grseoo-Eoman  period  this  conception  bad  reached  the  West.  The  cele- 
brated romance  of  Antonius  Diogenes  was  put  together  in  this  way. 
According  to  the  testimony  of  Pliny  (xxx.  2),  the  philosopher  Democritus 
of  Abdera  acquired  his  knowledge  of  magic  from  ApollobSohis  of  Coptos, 
and  from  Dardanus  the  Phoenician,  voluminibus  Dardani  in  sejjulcJirum 
ejus  petitis ;  he  owed  his  chemical  knowledge  to  the  works  of  Ostanes, 
which  he  discovered  in  one  of  the  columns  of  the  temple  at  Memphis. 

^  It  is  thus  that  I  interpret  the  fragments  that  can  be  read  on  the  sheet 
of  papyrus  discovered  by  Spiegelberg  (cf .  introduction  to  this  story,  p.  115). 

'  Cf.  the  passage  (p.  134)  where  Satni  carries  off  the  book,  and  where 
the  tomb  becomes  darkened,  and  again  (p.  142)  where  the  light  reappears 
when  the  book  is  brought  back. 

*  Brugsoh  read  Merhu,  then  Mer-ho-nefer,  Maspero  MihUonsu,  Hess  and 
Griffith  Mer-ab,  as  the  name  of  the  child.  The  decipherment  by  Hess  is 
very  good  and  his  reading  would  be  irreproachable  if  it  were  based  on  a 
text  of  the  early  period ;  for  Egyptians  of  the  Ptolemaic  age,  the  reading 
should  be  Mihet,  Maihet,  or  Meihet. 


120  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

him ;  for  though  their  bodies  reposed  at  Coptos,  their 
double  '  was  with  him  by  virtue  of  the  book  of  Thoth.  And 
when  Satni  entered  the  tomb,  Ahuri  stood  up  and  said  to 
him,  "Thou,  who  art  thou?"  He  said,  "I  am  Satni- 
Khamois,  son  of  the  King  Usimares,  1.  h.  s. ;  I  am  come  to 
have  that  book  of  Thoth,  that  I  perceive  between  thee  and 
Nenoferkephtah.  Give  it  me,  for  if  not  I  will  take  it  from 
thee  by  force."  Ahuri  said,  "  I  pray  thee,  be  not  in  haste, 
but  listen  first  to  all  the  misfortunes  that  came  to  me 
because  of  this  book  of  which  thou  sayest,  '  Let  it  be  given 
to  me.'  Do  not  say  that,  for  on  account  of  it  we  were 
deprived  of  the  time  we  had  to  remain  on  earth. 

"I  am  named  Ahuri,  daughter  of  the  King  Merenephthis, 
1.  h.  s.,  and  he  whom  thou  seest  here  with  me  is  my  brother 
Nenoferkephtah.  We  were  born  of  the  same  father  and 
the  same  mother,  and  our  parents  had  no  other  children 
than  ourselves.  When  I  was  of  age  to  marry,  I  was  taken 
before  the  king  at  the  time  of  diversion  with  the  king ;  ^  I 
was  much  adorned  and  I  was  considered  beautiful.  The 
king  said,  'Behold,  Ahuri,  our  daughter,  is  already  grown, 
and  the  time  has  come  to  marry  her.  To  whom  shall  we 
marry  Ahuri,  our  daughter  ?  '  Now  I  loved  Nenoferkephtah, 
my  brother,  exceedingly,  and  I  desired  no  other  husband 
than  he.'  I  told  this  to  my  mother ;  she  went  to  find  the 
King  Merenephthis,  she  said  to  him,  'Ahuri,  our  daughter, 

'  The  ha  or  double  was  born  with  the  child,  grew  up  with  the  man,  and 
still  subsisting  after  death,  dwelt  in  the  tomb.  It  was  necessary  to  feed, 
clothe,  and  amuse  It ;  and  it  was  to  it  that  the  funerary  offerings  were 
presented.  As  this  story  shows,  it  could  leave  the  place  where  its  corpse 
was,  and  dwell  in  the  tomb  of  some  other  member  of  the  family. 

^  One  sees,  from  the  pictures  on  the  Pavilion  of  Medinet  Habu,  that 
the  king  went  every  day  to  the  harem  to  amuse  himself  there  with  his 
wives ;  it  was  probably  that  part  of  the  day  that  this  story  speaks  of  as 
the  time  of  diversion  vMh  the  king. 

•  The  universal  custom  in  Egypt  was  for  the  brother  to  marry  one  of 
his  sisters.  The  gods  and  the  kings  themselves  set  the  example,  and  the 
custom  of  these  marriages,  which  to  us  appear  incestuous,  was  so  firmly 
seated,  that  the  Ptolemies  eventually  complied  with  it.  The  celebrated 
Cleopatra  had  her  two  brothers  in  succession  as  husbands. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   121 

loves  Nenoferkephtah,  her  eldest  brother ;  let  us  marry  them 
one  to  the  other  according  to  custom.'     When  the  King  had 
heard   all   the   words   that  my  mother  had  said,  he    said, 
'  Thou  hast  had  but  two  children,  and  wouldest  thou  marry 
them  one  to  the  other  ?    Would  it  not  be  better  to  marry 
Ahuri   to   the  son  of  a  general  of  infantry,  and  Nenofer- 
kephtah to  the  daughter  of  another  general  of  infantry  ? ' 
She  said,  '  Dost  thou  wrangle  with  me  ?  ^     Even  if  I  have  no 
children  after  those  two  children,  is  it  not  the  law  to  marry 
them  one  to  the  other  ? — I  shall  marry  Nenoferkephtah  to 
the  daughter  of  a  commander  of  troops,  and  Ahuri  to  the 
son  of  another  commander  of  troops,  and  may  this  turn  to 
good  for  our  family.'     As  this  was  the  time  to  make  festival 
before  Pharaoh,  behold,  one  came  to  fetch  me,  one  led  me 
to  the  festival ;   I  was  very  troubled,  and  I  had  no  longer 
the  manner  of  the  previous  day.     Now  Pharaoh  said  to  me, 
'  Is  it  not  thou    who   didst   send  me   those   foolish  words, 
"  Marry  me  to  Nenoferkephtah  my  eldest  brother  "  ? '     I  said 
to  him,  '  Well !  let  me  be  married  to  the  son  of  a  general 
of    infantry,    and    let    Nenoferkephtah   be   married   to   the 
daughter  of  another  general  of  infantry,  and  may  this  turn 
to    good    for   our    family.' — I    laughed,    Pharaoh    laughed. 
Pharaoh  said  to  the  major-domo  of  the  royal  house,  *  Let  Ahuri 
be  taken  to  the  house  of  Nenoferkephtah  this  very  night ;  let 
all  manner  of  fine  presents  be  taken  with  her.'     They  took 
me  as  spouse  to  the  house  of  Nenoferkephtah,  and  Pharaoh 
commanded  that  a  great  dowry  of  gold  and  silver  should 
be  taken  to  me,  and  all  the  servants  of  the  royal  house 
presented    them   to   me.      Nenoferkephtah   spent   a   happy 
day  with  me  ;  he  received  all  the  servants  of  the  royal  house, 

'  The  part  of  the  text  that  is  preserved  commences  here.  In  the 
restitution  that  precedes  it  I  have  attempted,  as  far  as  possible,  to  use 
expressions  and  ideas  borrowed  from  the  remaining  pages.  It  must  there- 
fore be  understood  that  the  preceding  pages  do  not  by  any  means  represent 
the  contents  of  the  two  lost  leaves  of  demotic.  Without  developing  the 
events  in  detail  I  have  confined  myself  to  reconstructing  a  general 
beginning  that  will  enable  readers  to  understand  the  story. 


122  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

and  he  slept  with  me  that  very  night,  and  he  found  me 
a  virgin,  and  he  knew  me  again  and  again,  for  each  of  us 
loved  the  other.  And  when  the  time  of  my  monthly 
purifications  was  come,  lo,  I  had  no  purifications  to  make. 
One  went  to  announce  it  to  Pharaoh,  and  his  heart  rejoiced 
greatly  thereat,  and  he  had  all  manner  of  precious  things 
of  the  property  of  the  royal  house  taken,  and  he  had  very 
beautiful  gifts  of  gold,  of  silver,  of  fine  linen,  brought  to  me. 
And  when  the  time  came  that  I  should  be  delivered,  I 
brought  forth  this  little  child  who  is  before  thee.  The 
name  of  Maihet  was  given  him,  and  it  was  inscribed  on 
the  register  of  the  Double  House  of  Life} 

And  many  days  after  that,  Nenoferkephtah,  my  brother, 
seemed  only  to  be  on  earth  to  walk  about  in  the  necropolis 
of  Memphis,  reading  the  writings  that  are  in  the  tombs  of 
the  Pharaohs,  and  the  stelae  of  the  scribes  of  the  Double 
House  of  Life,^  as  well  as  the  writings  that  are  inscribed  on 
them,  for  he  was  greatly  interested  in  writings.  After  that 
there  was  a  procession  in  honour  of  the  god  Ptah,  and 
Nenoferkephtah  entered    the  temple  to  pray.     Now  while 

'  The  double  house  of  life  was,  as  E.  de  Roug6  has  shown  (Stele  de  la 
Bibliotheque  imperiale,  pp.  71-99)  the  college  of  bierogrammarians  versed 
ia  the  knowledge  of  the  sacred  books  ;  each  of  the  great  Egyptian  temples 
had  its  double  house  of  life.  This  passage  of  the  story  might  lead  one  to 
think  that  the  scribes  belonging  to  it  held  some  sort  of  civil  position,  but 
this  was  not  the  case.  The  scribes  of  the  double  house  of  life,  like  all 
the  learned  men  of  Egypt,  were  astrologers,  diviners  and  magicians.  The 
children  of  kings,  princes,  and  nobles  were  brought  to  them  ;  they  drew 
the  horoscope,  they  predicted  the  future  of  the  new-born  babe,  they 
indicated  the  best  names,  the  special  amulets,  the  precautions  to  be 
taken  according  to  circumstances,  to  circumvent  as  far  as  possible  the 
indications  of  ill-fortune.  All  the  information  given  by  them  was 
inscribed  on  registers  which  probably  served  to  draw  up  calendars  of 
propitious  and  unpropitious  days,  similar  to  the  fragment  preserved  in  the 
Sallier  Papyrus  (Chabas,  Ze  Calendrier  des  jours  fasten  et  iiefastes  de 
Vannee  egyptienne,  1868)  of  which  I  have  spoken  in  the  Introduction,, 
pp.  liii-lviii. 

'  It  is  not  easy  to  understand  at  once  what  the  stelie  of  the  scribes  oj  the 
double  house  of  life  can  have  been  to  which  Satni  and  Nenoferkephtah 
attached  so  great  importance.  I  think  we  must  take  them  to  be  the 
talisman-stelae  of  which   the  Pseudo-Callisthenes,  the  Hermetic  writers 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   123 

he  walked  behind  the  procession,  deciphering  the  writings 
that  are  on  the  chapels  of  the  gods,  an  old  man  saw  him 
and  laughed.  Nenoferkephtah  said  to  him,  'Wherefore 
dost  thou  laugh  at  me  ? '  The  priest  said,  '  I  am  not 
laughing  at  thee;  but  can  I  refrain  from  laughing  when 
thou  readest  here  writings  that  have  no  power  ?  If  thou 
verily  desirest  to  read  a  writing,  come  to  me.  I  wiU  cause 
thee  to  go  to  a  place  where  the  book  is  that  Thoth  wrote 
with  his  hand  ^  himself,  when  he  came  here  below  with  the 
gods.  The  two  formulae  that  are  written  there,  if  thou 
recitest  the  first  thou  shalt  charm  the  heavens,  the  earth, 
the  world  of  the  night,  the  mountains,  the  waters ;  thou 
shalt  understand  that  which  the  birds  of  the  heaven  and 
the  reptiles  say,  as  many  as  they  are;  thou  shalt  see 
the  fish  of  the  deep,  for  a  divine  power  will  rest  on  the 
water  above  them.  If  thou  readest  the  second  formula, 
even  after  thou  art  in  the  tomb,  thou  shalt  resume  the 
form  that  thou  hadst  on  earth;  also  thou  shalt  see  the 
sun  rising  in  the  heavens,  with  his  cycle  of  gods,  and 
the    moon    in    the    form    she    has    when    she    appears.'  ^ 

and  after  them  the  Arab  authors  of  Egypt,  told  so  many  marvels.  The 
only  ones  that  have  come  down  to  us,  such  as  the  Metternich  Stela,  contain 
charms  against  the  bite  of  venomous  creatures,  serpents,  scorpions,  spiders, 
centipedes,  and  against  savage  animals.  It  would  be  supposed  that  such 
a  student  of  magic  as  Nenoferkephtah  would  pore  over  monuments  of 
this  kind  in  hopes  of  discovering  some  ancient  powerful  formula  forgotten 
by  his  contemporaries. 

'  Cf.  p.  31,  note  2,  and  p.  34,  in  the  story  of  Khufut  and  the  magicians, 
what  is  said  about  the  books  of  Thoth.  The  lieritietic  books  which  have 
reached  us  in  a  Greek  redaction  are  the  remains  of  this  sacred  library  that 
was  considered  to  be  the  work  of  the  god. 

'  The  powers  accorded  to  its  possessor  by  the  second  part  of  the  book 
of  Thoth  are  the  same  as  those  assured  by  knowledge  of  the  prayers  in 
the  Funerary  Ritual ;  chapter  xviii  gives  the  power  of  passing  unharmed 
through  fire  ;  chapter  xxiii  possesses  the  charms  necessary  for  the  personal 
security  of  the  man  who  knows  them  by  heart ;  and  so  forth.  The  book 
of  Thoth  secured  for  the  dead  the  power  of  animating  his  mummified  body 
and  using  it  as  he  pleased ;  and  for  the  living  the  sight  not  of  the  solar 
orb,  but  of  the  god  himself  concealed  in  the  orb,  and  the  gods  who  accom- 
panied him. 


124  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Nenoferkephtah  said  to  the  priest,  'By  the  life  of  the 
King,  let  me  be  told  what  good  thing  thou  dost  wish  for, 
and  I  will  cause  it  to  be  given  to  thee  if  thou  wilt  lead 
me  to  the  place  where  the  book  is.'  The  priest  said  to 
Nenoferkephtah,  'If  thou  desirest  that  I  should  send  thee 
to  the  place  where  the  book  is  thou  shalt  give  me  a  hundred 
pieces  of  silver '  for  my  burial,  and  thou  shalt  cause  the  two 
coffins  ^  of  a  wealthy  priest  to  be  made  for  me.'  Neno- 
ferkephtah called  a  page  and  commanded  him  that  the 
hundred  pieces  of  silver  should  be  given  to  the  priest,  also 
he  caused  the  two  coffins  to  be  made  that  he  desired;  in 
short,  he  did  all  that  the  priest  had  said.  The  priest  said 
to  Nenoferkephtah,  '  The  book  in  question  is  in  the  midst 
of  the  sea  of  Coptos'  in  an  iron  coffer.  The  iron  coffer 
is   in    a  bronze  coffer ;   the  bronze  coffer  is  in  a  coffer  of 

'  The  text  mentions  one  hundred  tabonu.  The  tatonu  weighed  on  an 
average  '89  to  '91  grammes.  One  hundred  tabonu  would  therefore 
represent  between  8  kil.  900  gr.  and  9  kil.  100  gr.  of  silver,  which  in  weight 
would  exceed  1,800  francs. 

^  The  Egyptian  word  is  illegible.  There  is  nothing  surprising  in  the 
priest's  reqaest,  for  those  who  know  something  of  the  customs  of  the 
countrj'.  It  is  merely  the  expression  of  a  good  wish  for  a  good  burial — 
gaise  no/re — which  is  found  on  funerary  stelfe  of  all  periods;  at  the  time 
when  this  romance  was  written  so  much  stress  was  laid  on  the  importance 
of  good  mummification  and  of  a  good  tomb  (ja(pT]  iyad-fi),  that  it  is  several 
times  mentioned  in  papyri  among  the  gifts  which  accrued  to  humanity 
from  the  beneficent  influence  of  the  stars,  riches,  excellent  posterity,  good 
fortune.  The  kings  and  great  nobles  usually  began  the  excavation  of  their 
tombs  as  soon  as  they  entered  into  possession  of  their  inheritance.  Uni 
was  presented  by  the  Pharaoh  Piupi  I,  and  the  phjsician  SokhitniSnukbu 
by  Usirkaf,  with  the  principal  furnishing  of  their  funerary  chambers.  As 
in  China,  it  is  quite  possible  that  the  gift  of  a  coffin  would  be  highly 
esteemed.  The  two  coffins  of  the  priest  were  necessary  for  a  wealthy 
interment.  In  addition  to  the  cartonnage  every  mummy  of  distinction 
had  two  wooden  coffins,  one  inside  the  other,  as  can  be  seen  in  our 
museums. 

^  The  word  employed  here  is  ia&ind,  the  sea.  Reitzenstein  {Hellenistische 
WiindererziiUungen,  pp.  114-115)  interprets  this  by  the  sea  near  Coptos,  i.e. 
the  Edd  Sea  which  is  reached  from  Coptos.  Here,  as  in  the  Tale  of  the 
Two  Brothers  (see  above,  p.  12,  note  4),  it  means  the  Nile.  Where  it 
crosses  the  nome  the  Nile  bore  a  special  name.  The  river  of  Coptos  is  that 
part  of  the  Nile  that  traverses  the  nome  of  Coptos. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   125 

cinnamon  wood ' ;  the  coffer  of  cinnamon  wood  is  in  a  coffer 
of  ivory  and  ebony;  the  coffer  of  ivory  and  ebony  is  in  a 
coffer  of  silver ;  the  coffer  of  silver  is  in  a  coffer  of  gold,  and 
the  book  is  in  that.^  And  there  is  a  schene'  of  reptiles 
round  the  coffer  in  which  is  the  book,  and  there  is  an  im- 
mortal serpent*  rolled  round  the  coffer  in  question. 

"  From  the  hour  that  the  priest  spoke  to  Nenoferkephtah 
he  knew  not  in  what  part  of  the  world  he  was.  He  came 
out  of  the  temple ;  he  spake  with  me  of  all  that  had  hap- 
pened to  him ;  he  said  to  me,  '  I  go  to  Coptos,  I  will  bring 
back  that  book,  and  after  that  I  will  not  again  leave  the 
country  of  the  north.'  But  I  rose  up  against  the  priest, 
saying,  *  Beware  of  Amon  for  thyself,  because  of  that  which 
thou  bast  said  to  Nenoferkephtah;  for  thou  hast  brought 
me  disputing,  thou  hast  brought  me  war ;  and  the  country 
of  the  Thebaid,  I  find  it  hostile  to  my  happiness.''  I 
raised  my  hand  to  Nenoferkephtah  that  he  should  not  go 
to  Coptos,  but  he  did  not  listen  to  me  ;  he  went  before 
Pharaoh,  and  he  spake  before  Pharaoh  all  the  words  that 
the  priest  had  said  to  him.     Pharaoh  said  to  him,  'What 


'  Ijoret  has  given  good  reasons  for  recognising  in  this  word  q^ad,  qod,  our 
cinnamon  tree  {Reciteil  de  Travaux,  vol.  iv,  p.  21,  vol.  vii,  p.  112). 

^  On  comparing  this  peissage  with  that  where  Nenoferkephtah  finds  the 
book  it  will  be  seen  that  the  order  of  the  cofEers  differs.  The  scribe  here 
made  a  mistake  in  his  method  of  enumeration.  He  should  have  said  "  the 
iron  coffer  contai7is  a  bronze  coffer,  the  bronze  coffer  contains  a  cinnamon- 
wood  coffer,"  etc.,  instead  of  "the  iron  coffer  is  in  a  bronze  coffer,  the 
bronze  coffer  is  in  a  cinnamon-wood  coffer,"  etc. 

'  The  schene  at  the  Ptolemaic  period  measured  about  12,000  royal  cubits 
of  52  centimetres  each. 

'  The  immortal  serpent  is  perhaps  the  great  serpent  that  is  still  supposed 
to  live  in  the  Nile,  and  of  which  the  fellahln  tell  strange  stories  (Maspero, 
Melanges  de  Atythologie,  vol.  ii,  pp.  411-414). 

'  The  district  of  the  Thebaid  and  the  city  of  Thebes  are  represented 
under  the  form  of  a  goddess.  It  is  therefore  possible  that  the  hostility  of 
the  covntry  of  the  Theiaid  was  not  the  hostility  of  the  inhabitants,  who 
received  the  visitors  cordially  when  they  landed  at  Coptos,  but  the  hostility 
of  the  goddess  in  whom  the  country  of  the  Thebaid  was  incarnate,  and 
who  would  be  unwilling  to  see  the  book  removed  that  had  been  placed 
under  her  charge  by  Thoth. 


126  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

is  the  desire  of  thy  heart  ? '  He  said  to  him,  '  Let  the 
royal  cange  be  given  to  me  fully  equipped.  I  shall  take 
Ahuri,  my  sister,  and  Maihet,  her  little  child,  to  the  south 
with  me  ;  I  shall  bring  back  the  book,  and  I  shall  not  leave 
this  place  again.'  The  cange  fully  equipped  was  given  to 
him ;  we  embarked  on  it,  we  made  the  voyage,  we  arrived 
at  Coptos.  When  this  was  told  to  the  priests  of  Isis  of 
Coptos,  and  to  the  superior  of  the  priests  of  Isis,  behold  they 
came  down  to  us;  they  came  without  delay  before  Neno- 
ferkephtah,  and  their  wives  came  down  before  me.'  We 
disembarked,  and  we  went  to  the  temple  of  Isis,  and  of 
Harpocrates.  Nenoferkephtah  caused  a  bull  to  be  brought, 
a  goose,  and  wine ;  he  presented  an  ofifering  and  a  libation 
before  Isis  of  Coptos,  and  Harpocrates.  We  were  then 
conducted  to  a  house  which  was  very  beautiful,  and  full  of 
all  manner  of  good  things.  Nenoferkephtah  spent  five  days 
diverting  himself  with  the  priests  of  Isis  of  Coptos,  while 
the  wives  of  the  priests  of  Isis  of  Coptos  diverted  themselves 
with  me.^  When  the  morning  of  the  following  day  came 
Nenoferkephtah  caused  a  large  quantity  of  pure  wax  to  be 
brought  before  him ;  he  made  of  it  a  bark  ^  filled  with  its 

'  The  canal  which  passes  to  the  west  of  the  ruins  of  Coptos  is  not 
navigable  at  all  times,  and  the  Nile  is  about  half  an  hour  from  the  town. 
This  explains  the  remarks  in  the  text.  Nenoferkephtah  probably  came  to 
land  at  the  same  place,  which  is  still  the  stopping-place  for  those  who  wish 
to  go  to  Kuft  or  to  the  hamlet  of  Bardd.  The  priests  and  priestesses  of 
Isis,  informed  of  his  arrival,  came  to  him  along  the  embankment  that 
unites  Kuft  and  Barfld,  and  which  from  remote  antiquity  has  delimited 
one  of  the  most  important  irrigation  basins  of  the  Theban  plain. 

''  The  actual  expression  for  diversion  is  to  make  a  happy  day. 

^  Rams,  Somes  is  a  raft  built  of  papyrus  stems,  the  name  of  which  is 
transcribed  as  Kbompsis  and  Rhops  in  certain  papyri  of  the  Grseco- Roman 
period  (cf.  p.  286,  note  2  of  the  present  volume).  In  the  Greek  romance 
of  Alexander  there  is  a  description  of  a  magic  bark,  constructed  by  the 
royal  sorcerer  Nectanebo,  and  in  the  romances  of  Alexander  derived  from 
Greek  romance  there  is  the  mention  of  a  glass  bell  by  means  of  which  the 
hero  descends  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  The  work-people  and  their  tools 
aie  magic  figures  to  which  the  formula  pronounced  by  Nenoferkephtah 
yives  life  and  breath,  as  chapter  vi  of  the  £ook  of  the  Dead  did  for  the 
funerary  figures  that  are  so  numerous  in  our  museums.    These  figures  were 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   127 

rowers  and  sailors,  he  recited  a  spell  over  them,  he  brought 

them  to  life,  he  gave   them  breath,  he   threw   them   into 

the  water,  1  he  filled   the  royal   cange  with   sand,  he   said 

farewell  to  me,^  he  embarked,  and  I  placed  myself  on  the 

sea  of  Coptos,  saying,  '  I  know  what  will  happen  to  him.' 

"  He  said,  '  Eowers,  row  for  me,  to  the  place  where  the 

book  is,'  and  they  rowed  for  him,  by  night  as  by  day.    When 

he  had  arrived  there  in  three  days,  he  threw  sand  in  front 

of  him,  and  a  chasm  opened  in  the  river.     When  he  had 

found  a  schene  of  serpents,  of  scorpions,  and  of  all  manner 

of  reptiles  round  the  coffer  where  the  book  was,  and  when 

he  had  beheld  an    eternal    serpent  round  the  coffer  itself, 

he   recited  a  spell  over  the    schene  of  serpents,  scorpions, 

and  reptiles  who  were  round  the  coffer,  and  it  rendered  them 

motionless.'    He  came  to  the  place  where  the  eternal  serpent 

was ;  he  attacked  him,  he  slew  him.     The  serpent  came  to 

life,  and  took  his  form  again.     He  attacked  the  serpent  a 

second  time;  he  slew  him.     The  serjoent  came  to  life  again. 

He  attacked  the  serpent  a  third  time;  he  cut  him  in  two 

pieces,  he  put  sand  between  piece  and  piece;    the  serpent 

died,  and  he  did  not  again  take  his  previous  form.*    Nenofer- 

also  servants  intended  to  work  for  the  dead  men  in  the  fields  of  the  next 
world ;  they  hoed,  laboured,  and  reaped  for  him,  as  the  magic  labourers 
rowed  and  dived  for  Nenoferkephtah. 

'  Of.  above,  p.  25,  in  the  same  range  of  ideas,  the  wax  crocodile  made 
by  Ubauanir,  which  when  thrown  into  the  water  came  to  life,  and  grew  so 
large  as  to  become  an  actual  crocodile. 

■"  This  phrase  is  a  probable  restitution,  but  not  certain. 

"  Literally :  "  They  did  not  carry  themselves  off."  It  is  the  same 
expression  used  in  the  Story  of  the  Doomed  Prince  (cf.  p.  187,  note  3) 
to  mark  the  magic  proceeding  employed  by  the  princes  to  reach  the 
window  of  the  daughter  of  the  chief  of  Naharinna.  One  of  the  Leyden 
papyri  and  a  papyrus  in  the  Louvre,  The  Harris  Magic  Papyrus,  contain 
spells  against  scorpions  and  reptiles,  of  the  kind  placed  by  the  author  in 
the  mouth  of  Nenoferkephtah. 

*  This  struggle  with  serpents,  guardians  of  a  book  or  of  a  place,  is  based 
on  a  religious  idea.  At  Denderah,  for  instance  (Mariette,  DeiiAerah, 
vol.  iii,  pi.  14  a,  V),  the  guardians  of  the  doorways  and  crypts  are  always 
figured  under  the  form  of  vipers,  as  are  also  the  guardians  of  the  twelve 
regions  of  the  lower  world.  The  serpent  goddess  Maruitsakro  was  guardian 
of  part  of  the  funerary  mountain  of  Thebes,  between  Assasif  and  Qurnah, 


128  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

kephtah  went  to  the  place  where  the  cofifer  was,  and  he 
recognised  that  it  was  an  iron  coffer.  He  opened  it  and 
he  found  a  bronze  coffer.  He  opened  it  and  found  a  cinna- 
mon-wood coffer.  He  opened  it  and  found  an  ivory  and 
ebony  coffer.  He  opened  it  and  found  a  silver  coffer.  He 
opened  it  and  found  a  gold  coffer.  He  opened  it  and  found 
that  the  book  was  inside.  He  drew  the  book  in  question 
out  of  the  gold  coffer,  and  recited  a  formula  of  that  which 
was  written  in  it ;  he  enchanted  the  heaven,  the  earth,  the 
world  of  the  night,  the  mountains,  the  waters ;  he  under- 
stood all  that  was  spoken  by  the  birds  of  the  heaven,  the 
fish  of  the  waters,  the  beasts  of  the  mountain.  He  recited 
the  other  formula  of  the  writing,  and  he  beheld  the  sun 
as  it  mounted  the  sky  with  his  cycle  of  gods,  the  moon 
rising,  the  stars  in  their  form  ;  he  beheld  the  fishes  of  the 
deep,  for  a  divine  force  rested  on  the  water  above  them. 
He  recited  a  spell  over  the  water,  and  it  made  it  return 
to  its  former  shape,  he  re-embarked ;  he  said  to  the  rowers, 
'  Row  for  me  to  the  place  where  Ahuri  is.'  They  rowed  for 
him,  by  night  as  by  day.  When  he  arrived  at  the  place 
where  I  was,  in  three  days,  he  found  me  sitting  near  the 
sea  of  Coptos.  I  was  not  drinking  nor  eating ;  I  was  doing 
nothing  in  the  world  ;  I  was  like  a  person  arrived  at  the 
Good  Dwelling}  I  said  to  Nenoferkephtah,  '  By  the  life  of 
the  King  !  Grant  that  I  see  this  book  for  which  you  have 
taken  all  this  trouble.'  He  put  the  book  in  my  hand, 
I   read   one   formula   of  the   writing   which   was   there ;    I 

and  especially  of  the  pyramidal-shaped  summit  which  dominates  the  whole 
chain,  and  which  is  called  Ta-tehnit,  the  forehead.  In  the  romance  of 
Alexander,  on  the  subject  of  the  foundation  of  Alexandria,  there  is  an 
account  of  a  fight  similar  to  that  of  Nenoferkephtah  {Pseudo  CaUistkenes, 
pp.  34,  35),  but  the  order  is  reversed  ;  the  small  fry  of  the  serpents  only 
appear  after  the  death  of  the  eternal  serpent.  On  the  persistency  of  this 
superstition  of  a  guardian  snake,  see  Lane,  Modem  Egyptians,  London, 
1871,  vol.  i,  pp.  286,  287,  where  it  is  said  that  every  quarter  of  Cairo  "  has 
its  peculiar  guardian  genius  .  .  .  which  has  the  form  of  a  serpent." 

'  This  is  one  of  the  euphemisms  employed  in  Egypt  to  designate  the 
workshop  of  the  embalmers,  and  also  the  tomb. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   129 

enchanted  the  heaven,  the  earth,  the  world  of  the  night, 
the  mountains,  the  waters ;  I  understood  all  that  was  spoken 
by  the  birds  of  the  heaven,  the  fish  of  the  deep,  and  the 
quadrupeds.  I  recited  the  other  formula  of  the  writing. 
I  beheld  the  sun  which  appeared  in  the  heaven  with  his 
cycle  of  gods,  I  beheld  the  moon  rising,  and  all  the  stars 
of  heaven  in  their  form ;  I  beheld  the  fish  of  the  water,  for 
there  was  a  divine  force  which  rested  on  the  water  above 
them.  As  I  could  not  write,  I  said  so  to  Nenoferkephtah, 
my  eldest  brother,  who  was  an  accomplished  scribe  and  a 
very  learned  man ;  he  caused  a  piece  of  virgin  papyrus 
to  be  brought,  he  wrote  therein  all  the  words  that  were 
in  the  book,  he  soaked  it  in  beer,  he  dissolved  the  whole 
in  water.  When  he  saw  that  it  had  all  dissolved,  he  drank, 
and  he  knew  all  that  was  in  the  writing.' 

"  We  returned  to  Coptos  the  same  day,  and  we  made 
merry  before  Isis  of  Coptos  and  Harpocrates.  We  em- 
barked, we  set  off.  We  reached  the  north  of  Coptos,  the 
distance  of  a  schene.  Now  behold,  Thoth  had  learnt  all 
that  had  happened  to  Nenoferkephtah  with  regard  to  this 
book,  and  Thoth  did  not  delay  to  plead  before  Ea,  saying, 
'  Know  that  my  right  and  my  law  are  with  Nenoferkephtah, 
son  of  the  King  Merenephthis,  1.  h.  s.  He  has  penetrated 
into  my  abode,  he  has  pillaged  it,  he  has  taken  my  coffer 
with  my  book  of  incantations,  he  has  slain  my  guardian 
who  watched  over  the   coffer.'     One  ^  said  to  him,  '  He  is 

'  This  proceeding  of  Nenoferkephtah  has  been  employed  at  all  periods 
in  the  East.  In  ancient  Babylon,  as  now  at  Bagdad  and  Cairo,  bowls  of 
unglazed  pottery  were  made  on  which  magic  formulse  against  various 
maladies  were  written  in  ink.  Into  them  water  was  poured,  which 
partially  removed  the  ink,  and  which  was  swallowed  by  the  patient. 
However  much  the  ink  remained  at  the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  the  cure  was 
certain.  (Lane,  Modern  Egyytians,  1871,  vol.  i,  pp.  320-321.)  Did  not 
Mme.  de  S6vign6  wish  that  she  could  make  broth  of  the  works  of  M.  Nicole, 
and  thus  assimilate  their  virtues  1 

'  In  the  Story  of  the  Two  brothers  (p.  14,  note  2)  One  was  Pharaoh. 
Here  it  is  Ea,  king  of  the  gods,  and  at  the  beginning  of  time  the  Pharaoh 
of  Egypt. 


130  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

thine,  he  and  all  his,  all  of  them.'     One  sent  down  a  divine 
force  from  heaven  saying,  '  Nenoferkephtah  shall  not  arrive 
safe  and  sound  at  Memphis,  he  and  whoever  is  with  him.'    At 
this  same  hour  Maihet,  the  young  child,  came  out  from  under 
the  awning  of  the  cange  of  Pharaoh.'     He  fell  in  the  river, 
and  while  he  praised  Ka,^  all  who  were  on  board  uttered 
a  cry.     Nenoferkephtah   came  out   from  below  the  cabin  ; 
he  recited  a  spell  over  the  child,  and  brought  him  up  again, 
for  there  was  a  divine  force  which  rested  on  the  water  above 
him.     He  recited  a  spell  over  him,  he  made   him  tell  all 
that  had  happened  to  him,  and  the  accusation  that  Thoth 
had  brought  before  Ea.     We  returned  to  Coptos  with  him, 
we  had  him  carried  to  the  Good  Dwelling,  we  waited  to  see 
that   care   was   taken   of  him,  we    had    him   embalmed   as 
beseemed   a   great   one,   we   laid  him  in  his  coffin  in  the 
cemetery   of    Coptos.      Nenoferkephtah,    my   brother,    said, 
'Let  us  go;  do  not  let  us  delay  to  return  until  the  king 
has  heard  what  has  happened  to  us,  and  his  heart  is  troubled 
on  this  account.'      We  embarked,  we  parted,  we  were  not 
long  in  arriving  at  the  north  of  Coptos,  the  distance  of  a 
schene.     At  the  place  where  the   little  child  Maihet   had 
tumbled  into  the  river,  I  came  out  from  below  the  awning 
of  the  cange  of  Pharaoh,  I  fell  into  the   river,  and  while 
I  praised  Ra  all  who  were  on  board  uttered  a  cry.     It  was 
told  to  Nenoferkephtah,  and  he  came  out  from  below  the 
awning  of  the  cange  of  Pharaoh.     He  recited  a  spell  over 
me,  and  he  brought  me  up  again,  for  there  was  a  divine 

'  On  the  meaning  of  this  expression  cf.  E.  Lefgbure,  Riteg  igyptiem, 
p.  87. 

^  The  term  had,  the  praiser,  the  singer  of  the  god,  is  applied  to  the 
dead  in  a  manner  that  is  almost  constant  from  the  time  of  the  second 
Theban  empire :  To  praise  .Ha  is  a  euphemism  for  the  act  of  dying,  more 
especially  that  of  dying  by  drowning.  In  the  Ptolemaic  period  hasi  means 
drowned,  and  it  is  much  used  for  Osiris,  whose  body  Typhon  had  thrown 
into  the  Nile  (GriflSth-Thompson,  TTie  Demotie  Magical  Papyrus,  p.  38 ; 
and  Apotheosis  hy  drowning  in  Zeitsehrift,  19)0,  vol.  xlvi,  pp.  132-134). 
Thus  he  was  praising  Ra  is  here  equivalent  to  he  was  droioning. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   131 

force  which  rested  on  the  water  above  me.  He  took  me 
out  of  the  river,  he  read  a  spell  over  me,  he  made  me  tell 
all  that  had  happened  to  me,  and  the  accusation  that  Thoth 
had  brought  before  Ea.  He  returned  to  Coptos  with  me, 
he  had  me  carried  to  the  Good  Dwelling,  he  waited  to 
see  that  care  was  taken  of  me,  he  had  me  embalmed  as 
beseemed  a  very  great  personage,  he  had  me  laid  in 
the  tomb  where  Maihet,  the  little  child,  was  already  laid. 
He  embarked,  he  set  out,  he  was  not  long  in  arriving  at 
the  north  of  Coptos,  the  distance  of  a  schene,  at  the  place 
where  we  had  fallen  into  the  river.  He  communed  with 
his  heart,  saying,  '  Would  it  not  be  better  to  go  to  Coptos, 
and  take  up  my  abode  with  them?  If^  on  the  contrary, 
I  return  at  once  to  Memphis,  and  Pharaoh  questions  me 
on  the  subject  of  his  children,  what  could. I  say  to  him? 
Could  I  say  thus  to  him :  '  I  took  thy  children  with  me  to 
the  nome  of  Thebes ;  I  have  killed  them,  and  I  live.  I 
returned  to  Memphis  still  living.'  He  caused  a  piece  of  royal 
fine  linen  that  belonged  to  him  to  be  brought,  he  made 
of  it  a  magic  band,  he  tied  the  book  with  it,  he  put  it  on 
his  breast,  and  fixed  it  there  firmly.^  Nenoferkephtah  came 
out  from  below  the  awning  of  the  cange  of  Pharaoh,  he 
fell  into  the  water,  and  while  he  praised  Ea  all  who  were 
on  board  uttered  a  cry,  saying,  '  Oh,  what  great  mourning, 
what  lamentable  mourning !  Is  he  not  gone,  the  excellent 
scribe,  the  learned  man  who  had  no  equal ! ' 

"  The  cange  of  Pharaoh  went  on  its  way,  before  any  one  in 
the  world  knew  in  what  place  Nenoferkephtah  was.  When 
it  arrived  at  Memphis  one  informed  Pharaoh,  and  Pharaoh 

'  One  of  the  magic  books  of  the  Leyden  Museam  professes  to  be  a  copy 
from  the  original  "  discovered  at  the  neck  of  King  Usimares,  in  the  tomb  " 
(Pleyte,  Chapitres  xvppUmentaires  du  Livre  da  Marts,  pp.  60  e<  «ey .).  Another 
copy  of  the  same  work,  which  belongs  to  the  Cairo  Museum,  was  found  in 
the  coffin  of  Tatumaut,  priestess  of  Amon,  placed  at  the  base  of  the  neck. 
(Daressy,  Inscriptions  sur  les  objets  accompagnant  la  momie  de  Tadwiiaut, 
in  the  Annates  du  service  des  AntiquitSs,  vol.  iii,  pp.  156-157.) 


132  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

came  down  in  front  of  the  cange.  He  was  wearing  a  mourn- 
ing cloak,  and  all  the  garrison  of  Memphis  wore  mourning 
cloaks,  as  well  as  the  priests  of  Ptah,  the  high  priest  of 
Ptah,  and  all  the  people  who  surround  Pharaoh.^  And  lo ! 
they  beheld  Nenoferkephtah,  who  was  fixed  on  to  the  rudder- 
oars  of  the  cange  of  Pharaoh  by  his  knowledge  as  an  excellent 
scribe.^  They  raised  him,  they  saw  the  book  on  his  breast, 
and  Pharaoh  said,  '  Let  the  book  that  is  on  his  breast  be 
taken  away.'  The  courtiers  of  Pharaoh,  as  well  as  the  priests 
of  Ptah  and  the  high-priest  of  Ptah,  said  before  the  king, 
'  Oh,  our  great  lord — may  he  have  the  duration  of  JRa ! — 
he  is  an  excellent  scribe  and  a  very  learned  man,  this  Neno- 
ferkephtah ! '  '  Pharaoh  had  him  placed  in  the  Good  Diudl- 
ing^  for  the  space  of  sixteen  days,  clothed  with  stufi"s  for 
the  space  of  thirty-five  days,  laid  out  for  the  space  of  seventy 
days,  and  then  he  was  laid  in  his  tomb  amoDg  the  Dwellings 
of  Repose. 

"I  have  told  thee  aU  the  sorrows  that  came  to  us  on  account 
of  this  book,  of  which  thou  sayest,   'Let  it  be  given  me.' 

'  Qmihuatiu,  the  people  of  the  corner,  those  who  stand  at  the  tour  sides 
of  the  king  and  of  the  hall  in  which  he  gave  audience  (cf .  p.  94,  note  4). 

'  Nenoferkephtah  having  disappeared  beneath  the  river,  no  one  knew  in 
what  place  lie  was  ;  at  Memphis  he  is  found  attached  to  the  rudder-oars  of 
the  royal  bark,  and  the  text  is  careful  to  add  that  it  was  in  Ms  quality  of 
excellent  scribe.  This  prodigy  was  due  to  the  precaution  he  had  taken 
in  fixing  the  book  of  Thoth  to  his  breast ;  its  magic  virtue  had  raised  the 
corpse  and  attached  it  to  the  oars  without  human  intervention. 

'  The  exclamation  of  the  priests  of  Ptah,  which  at  first  nothing  appears 
to  justify,  is  an  indirect  reply  to  the  order  of  the  king.  The  king  com- 
mands them  to  take  the  book  of  Thoth,  which  had  already  caused  the  death 
of  three  persons.  The  priests  did  not  dare  to  disobey  him  openly,  but  by 
remarking  that  Nenoferkephtah  was  a  great  magician,  they  iutimated  to 
him  that  all  the  science  in  the  world  could  not  protect  men  against  the 
vengeance  of  God.  By  what  misfortunes  would  not  the  assistant  be 
menaced  who  took  the  book  without  the  knowledge  of  sorcery  possessed 
by  Nenoferkephtah  I  The  event  proves  that  this  somewhat  subtle  inter- 
pretation of  the  text  is  correct.  The  king  comprehended  the  fears  of  his 
courtiers,  and  revoked  the  imprudent  order  given  by  him ;  for  the  book  of 
Thoth  was  still  on  the  mummy  of  Nenoferkephtah  when  Satni  came  to 
take  it. 
*  Cf.  p.  128,  note  1,  for  the  Good  Dwelling. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   133 

Thou  hast  no  right  to  it ;  for,  on  account  of  it,  the  time  we 
had  to  remain  on  the  earth  was  taken  from  us." 

Satni  said,  "  Ahuri,  give  me  that  book  that  I  see  between 
thee  and  Nenoferkephtah ;  if  not,  I  will  take  it  from  thee  by 
force."  Nenoferkephtah  raised  himself  on  the  bed  and  said, 
"  Art  thou  not  Satni,  to  whom  that  woman  has  told  all  those 
misfortunes  that  thou  hast  not  yet  experienced  ?  Art  thou 
capable  of  obtaining  this  book  by  the  power  of  an  excellent 
scribe,*  or  by  thy  skill  in  playing  against  me  ?  Let  us  two 
play  for  it."''  Satni  said,  "Agreed."  Then  they  brought  the 
board  before  them,'  with  its  dogs,  and  they  two  played. 
Nenoferkephtah  won  a  game  from  Satni*;   he  recited  his 

'  In  other  words,  by  a  trial  of  magic  skill  between  magicians  of  equal 
power  (of.  p.  132,  note  2). 

"  For  the  meaning  of  this  passage,  cf.  Spiegelberg,  der  SagenTireii  des 
KSnigx  Petubaitis,  p.  56,  note  9.  The  game  of  draughts  was  the  favourite 
amusement  of  the  dead  ;  there  was  often  deposited  in  the  tomb  with  them 
a  draughtsboard,  draughtsmen,  and  some  small  knuckle-bones  to  regulate 
the  movement  of  the  pieces.  A  certain  vignette  of  the  Fune/rary  Ritual 
shows  the  owner  playing  thus  in  the  other  world,  in  a  small  pavilion  or 
under  the  vault  of  a  hypogeum  (Naville,  Tudte-iibuch,  vol.  i.  pi.  xxvii).  The 
modem  Egyptians  have  at  least  two  games,  the  mtinkalah  and  the  tab, 
which  should  present  analogies  with  Satni's  games  against  Nenoferkephtah. 
They  are  to  be  found  explained  at  full  length  in  Lane,  An  Account  of  the 
Manners  and  Cuatomt  of  the  Modern  Egyptians,  5th  edit.,  London,  1871, 
vol.  ii,  p.  46  et  teg.  The  mwnkalah  is  played  with  sixteen  points.  We 
may  add  that  in  the  Turin  Museum  there  are  fragments  of  a  papyrus, 
unfortunately  damaged,  in  which  are  given  the  rules  of  several  games  of 
draughts,  which  have  been  studied  by  Dev6ria,  then  by  Wiedemann.  I 
have  searched  in  vain  for  an  explanation  of  the  game  played  by  the  two 
heroes  of  the  story;  in  the  present  state  of  our  knowledge  the  connec- 
tion is  impossible  to  follow,  and  the  translation  of  this  passage  remains 
conjectural. 

'  The  playing  pieces  were  called  dogs ;  in  the  museums  there  are  some 
examples  with  the  head  of  a.  dog  or  jackal  (Birch,  Shampsinitus  and  the 
Game  of  Draughts,  pp.  4,  14).  It  is  the  same  name  given  them  by  the 
Greeks,  and  also  the  same  (Jtelb,  plural  kildb)  by  which  those  of  the  game 
of  tab  are  known  at  the  present  time  in  Egypt.  I  use  the  word  board  to 
render  the  Egyptian  term,  for  want  of  a  more  appropriate  expression ;  it  is 
the  small  board,  divided  into  compartments,  on  which  the  dogs  are  moved. 
There  are  two  in  the  Louvre,  one  of  which  bears  the  cartouche  of  Queen 
Hatshopsultu,  XVIIIth  dynasty. 

*  Nenoferkephtah  has  won  a  game ;  this  advantage  allows  him  to  recite 
his  book  of  magic,  which  results  in  depriving  Satni  of  part  of  his  magic 
14 


134  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

magic  over  him,  he  placed  over  him  the  playing-board  which 

was  before  him,  and  he  caused  him  to  sink  into  the  ground 

up  to  the  legs.     He  did  the  same  with  the  second  game ;  he 

won  from  Satni,  and  he  caused  him  to  sink  into  the  ground 

up  to  the  waist.     He  did  the  same  with  the  third  game, 

and  he  caused  Satni  to  sink  into  the  ground  up  to  the  ears. 

After  that,  Satni  attacked  Nenoferkephtah  with  his  hand; 

Satni  called  Inaros,  his  foster-brother,  saying,  "  Do  not  delay 

to  go  up  on  to  the  earth ;  tell  all  that  has  happened  to  me 

before  Pharaoh ;  bring  me  the  talismans  of  my  father  Ptah,' 

as  well  as  my  books  of  magic."     He  went  up  without  delay 

on  to  the  ground  ;  he  recounted  before  Pharaoh  all  that  had 

happened  to  Satni,  and  Pharaoh  said,  "  Take  him  the  tahs- 

mans  of  his  father  as  well  as  his  books  of  incantations." 

Inaros  went  down  without  delay  into  the  tomb;  he  placed 

the  taUsmans  on  the  body  of  Satni,  and  he  at  once  rose  to 

the  earth.     Satni  stretched  out  his  hand  towards  the  book 

and  seized  it ;  and  when  Satni  came  up  out  of  the  tomb,  the 

light  went  before  him  and  darkness  came  behind  him.^    Ahuri 

wept  after  him,  saying,  "  Glory  to  thee,  oh  darkness !     Grlory 

to  thee,  oh  light !     All  of  it  is  departed,  all  that  was  in  our 

tomb." '     Nenoferkephtah  said  to  Ahuri,  "  Do  not  afflict  thy- 

power.  Nenoferkephtah  puts  the  board  in  front  of  him  over  his  adversary, 
which  action  has  the  same  virtue  as  that  of  the  magic  hammer,  and  causes 
his  feet  to  sink  into  the  ground.  The  apocryphal  Acts  of  St.  Philip  recount 
a  similar  adventure  vfhioh  happened  to  the  saint :  at  each  point  that  he 
lost,  his  adversary,  a  pagan  priest,  forced  him  first  into  the  ground  up 
to  the  knees,  then  to  the  wraist,  and  finally  to  the  neck  (Reitzenstein 
Hellenistische  Wundererxdklungen,  pp.  132-133). 

'  The  title  oi  father  is  that  which  the  king,  descendant  and  actually  son 
of  the  Sun,  confers  on  all  the  gods ;  here  the  special  reason  for  it  was  the 
fact  that  Khamols  was  high  priest  of  the  Memphite  Ptah.  The  talismans 
of  Ptah  are  not  otherwise  known  to  us ;  it  is  interesting  to  ascertain  from 
this  passage  that  their  virtue  was  considered  superior  to  the  talismans  of 
Thoth  that  Nenoferkephtah  possessed. 

2  The  hook  of  Thoth  (cf.  above,  p.  119) ;  Satni,  when  carrying  it  off,  takes 
away  the  light  and  leaves  darkness. 

'  Thus,  in  the  Book  of  Hades,  every  time  that  the  sun,  having  traversed 
one  of  the  hours  of  the  night,  departs  to  enter  the  following  hour,  the 
manes  and  the  gods  that  he  leaves  plunged  into  darkness  for  twenty-three 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   136 

self.  I  shall  make  him  bring  back  this  book  in  due  time, 
a  forked  stick  in  his  hand,  a  lighted  brazier  on  his  head."  * 
Satni  went  up  out  of  the  tomb,  and  he  closed  it  behind 
him  as  it  was  before.  Satni  went  before  Pharaoh,  and  he 
recounted  to  Pharaoh  all  that  had  hapjiened  to  him  on 
account  of  the  book.  Pharaoh  said  to  Satni,  "  Eeplace  this 
book  in  the  tomb  of  Nenoferkephtah,  like  a  wise  man;  if 
not,  he  will  force  thee  to  take  it  back,  a  forked  stick  in  thy 
hand,  a  lighted  brazier  on  thy  head."  But  Satni  did  not 
listen  to  him ;  he  had  no  other  occupation  in  the  world 
than  to  spread  out  the  roll  and  to  read  it,  it  mattered  not 
to  whom.^ 

After  that  it  happened  one  day,  when  Satni  was  walking 
on  the  forecourt  of  the  temple  of  Ptah,  he  saw  a  woman, 
very  beautiful,  for  there  was  no  woman  who  equalled  her  in 
beauty ' ;  she  had  much  gold  upon  her,  and  there  were  young 

hours,  till  he  returns,  utter  exclamations  in  his  honour,  and  lament  their 
return  to  darkness. 

'  In  all  magic  rites  the  fire  or  the  sword,  or,  in  default  of  the  sword,  a 
metal  weapon  pointed  or  forked,  is  necessary  for  the  invocation  and  expul- 
sion of  spirits.  On  the  lead  rolls  found  in  African  cemeteries,  Typhon 
and  the  evil  Egyptian  genii  summoned  by  the  sorcerer  are  at  times  figured 
lance  in  hand  and  with  a  flame  on  the  head.  Krall  has  thought  that 
this  represents  a  courier  (^Papyrus  Eriherzog  Rainer,  Fiihrer  durch  die 
Ausstellung,  p.  53,  No.  166)   in  this  story. 

^  This  kind  of  overpowering  obsession  produced  by  a  magic  writing  is 
forcibly  described  in  other  texts.  It  was  thus  that  Prince  Diddfhoru,  son 
Mykerinus,  one  of  the  heroes  of  the  Story  of  Khufid  and  tJie  Magicians 
(cf.  p.  30  et  »eq.),  having  discovered  chapter  xliv  of  the  Book  of  the 
Dead,  "  saw  no  more,  heard  no  more,  so  much  did  he  recite  this  pure  and 
holy  chapter;  he  did  not  approach  women,  he  ate  neither  flesh  nor  fish.'' 
Abstinence  and  chastity  were  in  fact  indispensable  conditions  for  the 
exercise  of  those  superhuman  powers  that  books  of  magic  conferred  on 
their  possessors,  as  will  be  seen  in  the  course  of  this  romance  (cf.  p.  141, 
note  1).  It  is  by  the  incontinence  of  Satni  that  Nenoferkephtah  hopes  to 
recover  his  talisman. 

"  The  part  played  by  Tbubui  in  this  episode  is  in  conformity  with  the 
universal  ideas  of  demonology,  and  shows  us  the  nature  of  the  personage. 
She  is  no  other  than  Ahnri  returned  to  earth  to  seduce  Satni  and  render 
him  incapable  of  making  use  of  his  magic  powers  ;  when  she  has  accom- 
plished this,  Nenoferkephtah  will  come  in  his  turn  and  force  him  to  return 
the  book  of  Thoth.     For  this  conception,  cf.  Iiitroduction,  pp.  Ixiii-iv. 


136  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

girls  who  walked  behind  her,  and  with  her  were  servants  to 
the  number  of  fifty-two.*  From  the  hour  that  Satni  beheld 
her,  he  no  longer  knew  the  part  of  the  world  in  which  he 
was.  Satni  called  his  page,^  saying,  "  Do  not  delay  to  go  to 
the  place  where  that  woman  is  and  learn  who  she  is."  The 
young  page  made  no  delay  in  going  to  the  place  where  the 
woman  was.  He  addressed  the  maid-servant  who  walked 
behind  her,  and  he  questioned  her,  saying,  "  What  person  is 
that  ?  "  She  said  to,  him,  "  She  is  Tbubui,  daughter  of  the 
prophet  of  Bastit,  lady  of  Ankhutaui,'  who  now  goes  to  make 
her  prayer  before  Ptah,  the  great  god."  When  the  young  man 
had  returned  to  Satni,  he  recounted  all  the  words  that  she 
had  said  to  him  without  exception.  Satni  said  to  the  young 
man,  "  Go  and  say  thus  to  the  maid-servant,  '  Satni-Khamois, 
son  of  the  Pharaoh  Usimares,  it  is  who  sends  me,  saying,  "  I 
will  give  thee  ten  pieces  of  gold  that  thou  mayest  pass  an 
hour  with  me.^  If  there  is  necessity  to  have  recourse  to 
violence,  he  will  do  it,  and  he  will  take  thee  to  a  hidden 
place,  where  no  one  in  the  world  will  find  thee."  When 
the  young  man  had  returned  to  the  place  where  Tbubui  was, 
he  addressed  the  maid-servant,  and  spake  with  her,  but  she 
exclaimed  against  his  words,  as  though  it  were  an  insult 
to  speak  them.  Tbubui  said  to  the  young  man,  "  Cease  to 
speak  to  that  wretched  girl ;  come  and  speak  to  me."     The 

'  Thus,  as  Wiedemann  has  very  ingeniously  observed  {Altdgyptische 
Sagen  und  Marchcn,  p.  13fi,  note  1),  the  fifty-two  pages  who  accompany 
Tbubui  are  the  fifty-two  playing  pieces  of  the  magic  chess-board,  animated 
and  incarnated  to  serve  as  escort  to  the  princess  Ahuri  in  her  excursion 
into  the  world  of  the  living  ;  of.  Introduction,  p.  Ixiv. 

^  The  word  page  is  a  more  or  less  accurate  equivalent  that  I  use  for  want 
of  a  better.  The  Egyptian  term  sotm  dshu  signifies  literally  he  who  liears 
the  call;  it  is  found  abbreviated  into  sotmu  in  the  Doomed  Prince.  On  the 
monuments  there  is  a  numerous  series  of  sotmu  dshu  m  isit  mdit,  or  pages 
in  the  true  place,  that  is  to  say,  domestics  attached  to  those  parts  of  the 
Theban  Necropolis  which  adjoin  Drah  Abu'l  Neggah,  Deir  el  Babarl,  el 
Assasslf ,  Sheikh  Abd  el  Gurnah,  Delr  el  Medineh,  especially  this  last  locality. 

'  For  the  quarter  Ankhutadi  see  above,  p.  24,  note  1. 

*  Ten  tabonu  in  gold  (cf .  p.  124,  note  1)  made  between  890  and  910  grammes 
of  gold,  or  about  3,000  francs  in  weight,  but  far  more  in  actual  value. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   137 

young  man  approached  the  place  where  Tbubui  was ;  he  said 
to  her,  "  I  will  give  thee  ten  pieces  of  gold  if  thou  wilt  pass 
an  hour  with  Satni-Khamois,  the  son  of  Pharaoh-Usimares. 
If  there  is  necessity  to  have  recourse  to  violence,  he  will  do 
so,  and  will  take  thee  to  a  hidden  place  where  no  one  in 
the  world  will  find  thee."  Tbubui  said,  "  Go,  say  to  Satni, 
'  I  am  a  hierodule,  I  am  no  mean  person ;  if  thou  dost  desire 
to  have  thy  pleasure  of  me,  thou  shalt  come  to  Bubastis  ^ 
into  my  house.  All  will  be  ready  there,  and  thou  shalt  have 
thy  pleasure  of  me,  and  no  one  in  the  world  shall  know  it, 
and  I  shall  not  have  acted  like  a  woman  of  the  streets.' " 
When  the  page  had  returned  to  Satni,  he  repeated  to  him 
all  the  words  that  she  had  said  without  exception,  and  he 
said,  "  Lo,  I  am  satisfied."  But  all  who  were  with  Satni 
began  to  curse. 

Satni  caused  a  boat  to  be  fetched,  he  embarked,  and 
delayed  not  to  arrive  at  Bubastis.  He  went  to  the  west  of 
the  town,  until  he  came  to  a  house  that  was  very  high ;  it 
had  a  wall  all  round  it,  it  had  a  garden  on  the  north  side, 
there  was  a  flight  of  steps  in  front  of  it.  Satni  inquired, 
saying,  "  Whose  is  this  house  ? "  They  said  to  him,  "  It 
is  the  house  of  Tbubui."  Satni  entered  the  grounds,  and 
he  marvelled  at  the  pavilion  situated  in  the  garden  ^  while 
they  told  Tbubui ;  she  came  down,  she  took  the  hand  of 
Satni,  and  she    said  to  him,  "  By  my  life !  the  journey  to 

'  Now  Tell  Basta,  near  Zagazig.  Brugsch  has  separated  the  two  parts 
of  the  word,  and  has  translated  it  to  tlie  temple  ofBastit.  The  orthography 
of  the  Egyptian  text  does  not  admit  of  this  interpretation.  It  does  not 
concern  either  a,  temple  of  Bastit  situated  in  one  of  the  quarters  of 
Memphis,  nor  a  part  of  Memphis  called  Pubastit,  but  the  house  of  Boitit 
Bubastis.  The  journey  would  not  necessitate  long  preparation  ;  it  would 
only  occupy  a  few  hours — a  contrast  to  the  journey  to  Coptos  that  was 
successively  undertaken  by  Nenoferkephtah  and  by  Satni  himself. 

^  This  description  corresponds  very  exactly  with  various  plans  of 
Egyptian  houses  that  are  figured  in  the  pictures  in  the  Theban  tombs. 
To  take  one  that  I  have  figured  in  Egyptian  ArcluBology  (6th  English 
edition,  1914,  Grevel,  London,  fig.  14,  p.  15),  one  sees  the  high  wall,  the 
doorway,  the  flight  of  steps,  the  great  garden,  and  the  house  of  two  storeys 
in  the  garden. 


138  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

the  house  of  the  priest  of  Bastit,  lady  of  Ankhutaui,    at 
which  thou  art  arrived,  is  very  pleasant  to  me.     Come  up 
with  me."     Satni   went   up  by  the  stairway  of  the  house 
with   Tbubui.      He   found    the   upper    story   of  the   house 
sanded  and  powdered  with  sand  and  powder  of  real  lapis- 
lazuli  and  real  turquoise.^     There  were  several  beds  there, 
spread  with   stuffs  of  royal  linen,   and  also  many  cups  of 
gold  on  a  stand.     They  filled  a  golden  cup  with  wine,  and 
placed  it  in  the  hand  of  Satni,  and  Tbubui  said  to  him, 
"  "Will  it  please  thee  to  rest  thyself  ? "     He  said   to   her, 
•'  That  is  not  what  I  wish  to  do."     They  put  scented  wood 
on  the  fire,  they  brought  perfumes  of  the  kind  that   are 
supplied   to   Pharaoh,  and   Satni  made  a  happy  day  with 
Tbubui,  for  he  had  never  before  seen  her  equal.     Then  Satni 
said  to  Tbubui,  "  Let  us  accomplish  that  for  which  we  have 
come  here."     She  said  to  him,  "Thou  shalt  arrive  at  thy 
house,  that  where  thou  art.     But  for  me,  I  am  a  hierodule,^ 
I  am  no  mean  person.     If  thou  desirest  to  have  thy  pleasure 
of  me,  thou  shall  make  me  a  contract  of  sustenance,  and  a 
contract  of  money  on  all  the  things  and  on  all  the  goods 
that  are  thine."'     He  said  to  her,  "Let  the  scribe  of  the 
school   be   brought."      He   was   brought   immediately,    and 
Satni  caused  to  be  made  in  favour  of  Tbubui  a  contract  for 
maintenance,  and  he  made  her  in  writing  a  dowry  of  all  his 
things,  aU  the  goods  that  were  his.     An  hour  passed ;  one 
came  to  say  this  to  Satni,  "  Thy  children  are  below."     "  He 
said,  "Let  them  be  brought  up."     Tbubui  arose,  she  put 

'  M&fliait  is  a,  name  common  to  all  green  minerals,  or  such  as  verge  on 
green,  sulphate  of  copper,  emerald,  turquoise,  etc.,  known  to  the  Egyptians. 

'  For  the  meaning  of  this  word  cf.  Maspero,  Melanges  de  Mythologie  et 
d^ Aroheologic  egyptiennes,  vol.  iv,  pp.  431-432. 

'  Tbubui  here  conforms  to  the  jurisprudence  of  the  Ptolemaic  period, 
according  to  which  the  existence  of  two  transactions,  one  of  "  sustenance  " 
and  the  other  of  "money,"  is  necessary  to  assure  a  legal  basis  for  the 
union  of  a  man  and  a  woman,  and  to  raise  it  to  the  semblance  of  con- 
cubinage ;  cf .  Spiegelberg,  BemotisoJie  Misoellen,  §  32  in  Recvsil  de  Travaux, 
vol.  ixviii,  pp.  190-195. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   139 

on  a  robe  of  fine  linen  ^  and  Satni  beheld  all  her  limbs 
through  it,  and  his  desire  increased  yet  more  than  before. 
Satni  said  to  Tbubui,  "  Let  us  accomplish  now  that  for  which 
I  came."  She  said  to  him,  "  Thou  shalt  arrive  at  thy  house, 
that  where  thou  art.  But  for  me,  I  am  a  hierodule,  I  am 
no  mean  person.  If  thou  desirest  to  have  thy  pleasure  of 
me,  thou  wilt  cause  thy  children  to  subscribe  to  my  writing, 
that  they  may  not  seek  a  quarrel  with  my  children  on  the 
subject  of  thy  possessions."  Satni  had  his  children  fetched 
and  made  them  subscribe  to  the  writing.  Satni  said  to 
Tbubui,  "  Let  me  now  accomplish  that  for  which  I  came." 
She  said  to  him,  "Thou  shalt  arrive  at  thy  house,  that 
where  thou  art.  But  for  me,  I  am  a  hierodule,  I  am  no 
mean  person.  If  thou  dost  desire  to  have  thy  pleasure 
of  me,  thou  shalt  cause  thy  children  to  be  slain,  so  that 
they  may  not  seek  a  quarrel  with  my  children  on  account 
of  thy  possessions."  Satni  said,  "Let  the  crime  be 
committed  on  them  of  which  the  desire  has  entered  thy 
heart."  She  caused  the  children  of  Satni  to  be  slain 
before  him,  she  had  them  thrown  out  below  the  window, 
to  the  dogs  and  cats,^   and   they  ate   their  flesh,  and  he 

'  This  is  the  great  robe  of  transparent  linen,  sometimes  supple  and 
falling  in  soft  folds,  sometimes  stiff  and  starched,  which  the  women  are 
wearing  in  pictures  of  the  interior  of  the  second  Theban  period.  The  whole 
body  was  visible  through  this  transparent  veiling,  and  the  Egyptian  artists 
have  not  failed  to  indicate  the  details  that  show  the  extent  to  which  the 
garment  left  the  body  visible.  Several  of  the  mummies  found  at  Delr 
el  Bahari,  among  others  those  of  Thfltm6sis  III.  and  Ramses  II.,  had 
bandages  of  this  linen  next  to  their  skin,  of  which  specimens  can  be  seen 
in  the  Cairo  Museum ;  it  has  yellowed  with  time  and  by  the  perfumes 
with  which  it  was  soaked  at  the  time  of  the  embalmment,  but  the  ancient 
paintings  have  not  exaggerated  when  they  represented  the  ladies  clothed 
in  it  as  almost  nude.  Examining  them,  one  understands  what  the  gauzes 
of  Cos  must  have  been  that  the  classical  writers  called  woven  air. 

^  In  the  same  way,  according  to  Egyptian  tradition,  the  eunuch  Bagoas, 
having  murdered  the  Persian  king  Okhos,  threw  his  body  to  the  cats 
{Diodorus  of  Sicily,  xvii,  v,  §  3,  and  Elien,  Sistoires  variees,  vi,  8).  In 
the  Tale  of  Two  Brothers  (p.  11  of  this  book)  Anupu  kills  his  wife  and 
throws  her  to  the  dogs,  as  a  punishment  for  having  tempted  and  calum- 
niated Balti. 


140  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

heard  them  while  he  was  drinking  with  Tbubui.  Satni 
said  to  Tbubui,  "Let  us  accomplish  that  for  which  we 
have  come  here,  for  all  that  thou  hast  said  before  me 
has  been  done  for  thee."  She  said  to  him,  "  Come 
into  this  chamber."  Satni  entered  the  chamber,  he  lay 
down  on  a  bed  of  ivory  and  ebony,  in  order  that  his  love 
might  be  rewarded,  and  Tbubui  lay  down  by  the  side 
of  Satni.  He  stretched  out  his  hand  to  touch  her;  she 
opened  her  mouth  widely  and  uttered  a  loud  cry.' 

When  Satni  came  t«  himself  he  was  in  a  place  of  a  furnace 
without  any  clothing  on  his  back.^  After  an  hour  Satni  per- 
ceived a  very  big  man  '  standing  on  a  platform,  with  quite 
a  number  of  attendant."?  beneath  his  feet,  for  he  had  the 
semblance  of  a  Pharaoh.  Satni  was  about  to  raise  himself, 
but  he  could  not  arise  for  shame,  for  he  had  no  clothing 
on  his  back.  This  Pharaoh  said,  "  Satni,  what  is  the  state 
in  which  you  are  ? "  He  said,  "  It  is  Nenoferkephtah  who 
has  had  all  this  done  to  me."  This  Pharaoh  said,  "  Go  to 
Memphis  ;  thy  children,  lo  !  they  wish  for  thee.  Lo  !  they  are 
standing  before  Pharaoh."  Satni  spake  before  this  Pharaoh, 
"My  great  lord  the  king — mayest  thou  have  the  duration 

'  Examples  of  these  transformations  at  the  moment  of  amorous 
indulgences,  are  not  rare  in  popular  literature.  Generally  they  are  pro- 
duced by  the  intervention  of  a  good  genius,  a  thaumaturgus  or  a  saint 
who  comes  to  rescue  the  hero  from  the  bonds  of  the  succubus  Elsewhere 
it  is  the  succubus  herself  who  affords  herself  the  malicious  pleasure  of 
terrifying  her  lover  by  a  sudden  metamorphosis.  This  last  conception  has 
often  been  made  use  of  by  European  writers,  and  particularly  by  Cazotte, 
in  his  Diahle  anwureua;.  An  obscene  detail,  which  occurs  several  lines 
farther  on,  and  which  I  have  not  translated,  proves  that  here,  as  in  all 
tales  of  the  kind.  Tbubui  was  forced  to  yield  herself  entirely  in  order  to 
get  her  enemy  into  her  power.  As  soon  as  she  had  done  so,  she  opened 
an  enormous  mouth  and  emitted  a  gale  of  wind  :  Satni  lost  consciousness, 
and  during  his  fainting  fit  he  was  carried  far  away  from  the  house. 

^  The  text  here  contains  a  phrase,  ail  qunef  hi-khen  n  udt  shakJti,  which  I 
omit,  and  of  which  the  sense  will  be  clear  to  any  one  who  would  wish  to 
refer  to  the  original. 

'  A  figure  of  more  than  human  size  was  at  that  period  the  mark  by  which 
one  recognised  gods  or  genii  when  they  manifested  themselves  to  man- 
kind ;  thus  Hermes-Thoth  in  the  Poimander,  §  1. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   141 

of  Ra — how  can  I  arrive  at  Memphis  if  I  have  no  raiment 
in  the  world  on  my  back  ?  "    This  Pharaoh  called  a  page  who 
was  standing  near  him  and  commanded  him  to  give  a  garment 
to  Satni.     This  Pharaoh  said,  "  Satni,  go  to  Memphis.     Thy 
children,  behold  they  live,  behold  they  are  standing  before 
the  king."  *      Satni  went  to   Memphis ;   he  embraced  his 
children  with  joy,   because  they  were  in  Ufe.^     Pharaoh 
said,  "  Is  it  not  drunkenness  that  has  caused  thee  to  do  all 
that  ?  "     Satni  related  all  that  had  happened  to  him  with 
Tbubui  and  Nenoferkephtah.     Pharaoh  said,  "  Satni,  I  have 
before  come  to  thine  aid,  saying,  '  They  will  slay  thee,  if 
thou  dost  not  return  that   book  to   the  place  where   thou 
didst  take  it  for  thyself,  but  thou  hast  not  listened  to  me 
up  to  this  hour.'    Now  take  back  the  book  to  Nenoferkephtah, 
a  forked   staff  in   thy  hand  and  a  lighted  brazier  on  thy 
head."     Satni  went  out  before  Pharaoh,  a  fork  and  a  staff 
in    his   hand   and   a   lighted   brazier   on  his  head,  and  he 
descended  into  the  tomb  where  Nenoferkephtah  was.     Ahuri 
said  to  him,  "  Satni,  it  is  Ptah  the  great  god  who  brings 
thee    here    safe   and    sound." '      Nenoferkephtah    laughed, 
saying,  "  This  is  what  I  said  to  thee  before."     Satni  began 
to  talk  with  Nenoferkephtah,  and  he  perceived  that  while 

'  One  sees  £rom  the  Hng's  remarks  that  he  is  Nenoferkephtah,  and  that 
all  the  preceding  scene  of  coquetry  and  murder  was  merely  a  magical 
deed ;  Satni,  rendered  Impure  and  a  criminal,  loses  his  supernatural 
power.  As  I  have  already  remarked  (p.  135,  note  2),  connection  with 
women  has  always  the  effect  of  suspending  the  power  of  the  sorcerer, 
until  he  has  been  able  to  accomplish  the  prescribed  ablutions  and  again 
become  pure.  Thus  amorous  seduction  is  always  a  method  much  resorted 
to  when  there  is  any  question  of  the  supernatural.  Only  to  quote  one 
example  among  hundreds,  in  the  Arabian  Nights  (fourteenth  night)  the 
enchanter  Shahabeddin,  after  having  had  connection  with  a  woman,  could 
not  use  his  formula  with  any  success  until  he  had  accomplished  the  puri- 
fications prescribed  by  the  Koran  to  be  adopted  under  such  circumstances, 
and  had  been  cleansed  from  his  impurity. 

^  Of.  above,  p.  106,  u.  1,  an  analogous  instance  of  resurrection  in  the 
case  of  the  companions  of  the  shipwrecked  sailor. 

'  Satni  was  high-priest  of  Ptah ;  the  protection  of  the  god  had  saved 
him  from  the  magicians,  and  it  is  this  that  Ahuri  avows,  probably  not 
without  some  vexation. 


142  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

they  talked  the  sun  was  altogether  in  the  tomb.'  Ahuri 
and  Nenoferkephtah  talked  much  with  Satni.  Satni  said, 
"  Nenoferkephtah,  is  it  not  something  humiliating  that 
thou  askest?"  Nenoferkephtah  said,  "Thou  knowest  this 
by  knowledge,  that  Ahuri  and  Maihet,  her  child,  are  at 
Coptos,  and  also  in  this  tomb,  by  the  art  of  a  skilful  scribe. 
Let  it  be  commanded  to  thee  to  take  the  trouble  to  go 
to  Coptos  and  bring  them  hither."  ^ 

Satni  went  up  out  of  the  tomb ;  he  went  before  Pharaoh, 
he  related  before  Pharaoh  all  that  Nenoferkephtah  had  said 
to  him.  Pharaoh  said,  "  Satni,  go  to  Coptos  and  bring  back 
Ahuri  and  Maihet  her  child."  He  said  before  Pharaoh, 
"  Let  the  cange  of  Pharaoh  and  its  crew  be  given  me."  The 
cange  of  Pharaoh  and  its  crew  were  given  him ;  he  embarked, 
he  started,  he  did  not  delay  to  arrive  at  Coptos.  One  told  the 
priests  of  Isis,  of  Coptos,  and  the  High-priest  of  Isis  ;  behold, 
they  came  down  to  him,  they  came  down  to  the  bank.  He 
disembarked,  he  went  to  the  temple  of  Isis  of  Coptos,  and 
Harpocrates.  He  caused  a  bull,  a  goose,  and  some  wine  to  be 
brought ;  he  made  a  btirnt  offering  and  a  libation  before  Isis 
of  Coptos  and  Harpocrates.  He  went  to  the  cemetery  of 
Coptos  with  the  priests  of  Isis  and  the  High-priest  of  Isis. 
They  spent  three  days  and  three  nights  searching  among 
the  tombs  that  are  in  the  necropolis  of  Coptos,  moving  the 
stelae  of  the  scribes  of  the  Double  House  of  Life,  deciphering 
the  inscriptions  on  them ;  they  did  not  find  the  chambers 

'  In  returning  the  magic  book,  Satni  had  brought  back  light  into  the 
tomb,  of  which  he  had  deprived  it  when  he  carried  ofE  the  talisman  (see 
above,  p.  134,  n.  2). 

^  The  double  ought  to  live  where  the  body  is  buried.  Nenoferkephtah 
had  screened  the  douhle  of  Ahuri  and  MalhSt  from  that  law  by  the  art  of 
an  able  scribe,  that  is,  by  magic,  and  had  given  them  hospitality  in  his  own 
tomb  ;  but  this  was  a  precarious  position  that  might  be  changed  at  any 
moment.  Satni,  defeated  in  the  struggle  for  the  possession  of  the  book  of 
Thoth,  owed  some  indemnity  to  the  conqueror,  who  imposed  on  him  the 
obligation  to  go  to  Coptos  to  find  Ahuri  and  MalhSt  and  bring  them  to 
Memphis.  The  union  of  the  three  mummies  would  ensure  the  union  of  the 
three  doubles  for  all  time. 


ADVENTURE  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS  WITH  MUMMIES   143 

where  Aliuri  and  Maihet  her  child  reposed.  Nenoferkephtah 
knew  that  they  did  not  find  the  chambers  where  Ahuri  and 
Maihet  her  child  reposed.  He  manifested  himself  under  the 
form  of  an  old  man,  a  priest  very  advanced  in  years,  he 
presented  himself  before  Satni.' 

Satni  saw  him ;  Satni  said,  "  Thou  seemest  to  be  a  man 
advanced  in  years,  dost  thou  not  know  the  house  where 
Ahuri  and  Maihet  her  child  repose  ?  "  The  old  man  said 
to  Satni,  "  The  father  of  the  father  of  my  father  said  to  the 
father  of  my  father,  '  The  chambers  where  Ahuri  and  Maihet 
her  child  repose  are  below  the  southern  corner  of  the  house 
of  the  priest.  .  .  .' "  ^  Satni  said  to  the  old  man,  "  Perchance 
the  priest  .  .  .  hath  injured  thee,  and  therefore  it  is  that 
thou  wouldest  destroy  his  house." '  The  old  man  said  to 
Satni,  "  Let  a  good  watch  be  kept  on  me  while  the  house  of 
the  priest  ...  is  destroyed,  and  if  it  happens  that  Ahuri 
and  Maihet  her  child  are  not  found  under  the  southern 
comer  of  the  house  of  the  priest  ...  let  me  be  treated  as 
a  criminal."  A  good  watch  was  kept  over  the  old  man ;  the 
chamber  where  Ahuri  and  Maihet  her  child  reposed  was 
found  below  the  southern  angle  of  the  house  of  the  priest.  .  .  . 

'  This  is  at  least  the  second  transformation  performed  by  Nenoferkephtah 
in  that  part  of  the  story  that  has  been  preserved.  The  ordinary  manes  had 
the  right  to  assume  all  the  forms  they  wished,  but  they  could  only  render 
themselves  visible  in  very  rare  cases.  Nenoferkephtah  owes  to  his  quality 
of  magician  the  power  to  do  with  ease  what  was  forbidden  to  them,  and  to 
appear  at  one  time  as  a  king,  at  another  as  an  old  man  (cf.  Introduction, 
pp.  Ixiii,  Ixiv). 

2  The  text  is  too  much  damaged  in  this  place  to  allow  of  the  restitution 
being  regarded  as  certain. 

'  By  destroying  the  house,  i.e.  the  tomb  of  an  individual,  his  funerary  cult 
was  rendered  impossible,  the  double  was  starved  and  ran  the  risk  of  perish- 
ing, thus  arousing  the  wrath  of  the  double,  which  showed  itself  in  appari- 
tions, attacks,  possessions  by  spirits  and  maladies  from  which  the  living 
suffered.  The  law  was  very  severe  on  those  who,  by  demolishing  a  tomb, 
risked  the  letting  loose  of  various  ills.  Nevertheless  it  happened  at  times 
that  people  who  cherished  hatred  against  some  deceased  persons  would 
run  the  risk.  Satni  feared  that  his  informant  might  profit  by  his  re- 
searches to  satisfy  his  hatred  and  render  him  an  involuntary  accomplice  in 
his  crime. 


144  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

Satni  caused  these  great  personages  to  be  carried  to  the 
cange  of  Pharaoh,  and  he  then  had  the  house  of  the  priest  .  .  . 
rebuilt  as  it  was  before.^  Nenoferkephtah  made  known  to 
Satni  that  it  was  he  who  had  come  to  Coptos,  to  discover  for 
him  the  chamber  where  Ahuri  and  Maihet  her  child  reposed. 
Satni  embarked  on  the  cange  of  Pharaoh.  He  made  the 
voyage,  he  did  not  delay  to  arrive  at  Memphis,  and  all  the 
escort  who  were  with  him.  One  told  Pharaoh,  and  Pharaoh 
came  down  before  the  cange  of  Pharaoh.  He  caused  the 
great  personages  to  be  carried  to  the  tomb  where  Nenofer- 
kephtah was,  and  he  had  the  upper  chamber  all  sealed  as 
before. — This  complete  writing,  wherein  is  related  the 
history  of  Satni  Khamois  and  Nenoferkephtah,  also  of  Ahuri 
his  wife  and  Maihet  his  son,  has  been  written  by  the  scribe 
Ziharpto,  the  year  35,  in  the  month  of  Tybi. 


II 

THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY    OF   SATNI-KHAMOtS    AND    HIS   SON 
SENOSIRIS 

The  Veritable  History  of  Satni-Khimois  and  his  son  Senosiris  was 
discovered  on  Papyrus  DCIV  of  the  British  Museum,  and  published, 
transcribed,  and  translated  into  English  by  F.  LI.  Griffith,  Stories 
of  the  High  Priests  of  Memphis,  the  Sethon  of  Herodotus,  and  the 
Demotic  Tales  of  JDumiuas,  Oxford,  Clarendon  Press,  1909,  8vo, 
pp.  41-66,  142-207,  and  Atlas  of  xiv  plates,  folio,  since  analysed, 
commented  on,  and  partially  translated  into  French  by  G.  Maspero, 

'  The  restorations  of  tombs,  and  in  consequenoe  the  transport  of 
mummies,  was  not  unusual  in  Ancient  Egypt.  The  most  striking  example 
was  afforded  at  Thebes  by  the  find  at  Delr  el  Eahari.  In  1881  about  forty 
royal  corpses  were  found  there,  including  the  most  celebrated  of  the 
Pharaohs  of  the  XVIIIth,  XlXth,  and  XXth  dynasties — Ahm6sis  I, 
Amenothes  I,  Thutmosis  II,  and  Xhutmosis  III,  Sfitui  I,  Ramses  II,  and 
Ramses  III.  Their  mummies,  inspected  and  repaired  at  different  times, 
had  finally  been  deposited,  under  Sheshonq  I,  in  one  pit,  where  it  was 
easy  to  protect  them  from  the  attempts  of  robbers.  The  hero  of  our  story 
acts  in  the  same  way  as  Sheshonq,  but  with  a  different  object ;  he  obeys 
an  order  from  the  dead  themselves,  and  endeavours  rather  to  please  them 
than  to  give  them  protection,  which  their  magic  power  enables  them  to 
dispense  with. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     145 

Contes  relatifs  aux  gramds-pretres  de  Memphis,  in  the  Journal  des 
Savants,  1911,  pp.  473-504,  finally  transcribed  into  hieroglyphs  and 
translated  by  Revillout,  Le  Roman  de  Satme,  Second  Soman  du 
Satme  IThaemouas,  in  Revne  Egyptologique,  voL  xii,  pp.  107-109, 
vol.  xiii,  pp.  29-38, 

It  is  found  on  the  reverse  of  two  collections  of  official  writings 
written  in  Greek,  and  dated  the  year  vii  of  Claudius  Caisar, 
46-47  A.D.  The  two  rolls  of  papyri,  treated  as  old  paper,  were 
fixed  to  each  other  end  to  end,  and  this  story  was  transcribed  on 
such  parts  of  the  verso  as  were  unused  ;  in  its  present  condition  it 
is  incomplete  on  the  right-hand  side  for  some  length  which  we  cannot 
determine,  and  the  beginning  of  the  narrative  has  disappeared. 
The  writing  appears  to  indicate  for  the  date  of  the  copy  the  latter 
half  of  the  second  century  a.d.  It  is  large  and  feeble,  careful  and 
yet  clumsy  ;  but  notwithstanding  its  peculiarities  it  is  easy  to 
decipher.  The  language  is  simple,  clear,  and  poorer  than  that  of 
the  preceding  narrative.  The  whole  of  the  first  page  is  missing 
and  a  long  fragment  of  the  second  page,  but  the  explanation  of 
the  subject  can  be  restored  with  fair  certainty.  The  remainder 
of  the  text  is  interrupted  with  serious  lacunae  that  render  it  difficult 
to  follow  the  narrative.  The  minute  and  patient  study  Mr.  Griffith 
has  bestowed  on  the  whole  of  the  work  enables  us  to  grasp  the 
general  meaning,  and  also  to  restore  the  detail  with  accuracy  in 
many  places.  According  to  my  usual  custom,  I  have  summarily 
filled  in  the  missing  portions,  taking  care  to  indicate  the  exact  point 
where  the  authentic  text  commences. 


There  was  at  one  time  a  king  named  Usimares,  1.  h.  s., 
and  among  his  children  he  had  one  called  Satmi^  who 
was  a  scribe,  skilled  with  his  fingers  and  very  learned  in 
all  matters.  He  was  more  expert  than  any  man  in  the 
world  in  the  arts  in  which  the  scribes  of  Egypt  excel, 
and  there  was  no  sage  to  compare  with  him  in  the  Entire 
Land.  And  after  that,  it  chanced  that  the  chiefs  of  the 
foreign  lands  sent  a  messenger  to  Pharaoh  to  say  to  him : 
"  This  is  what  my  lord  saith  :  '  Who  is  there  here  who  could 
do  such  and  such  a  thing  that  my  lord  has  devised,  under 

'  The  text  of  this  story  giyes  the  variant  Satmi  for  the  name  of  Satni, 
which  might  raise  a  doubt  as  to  whether  the  same  person  was  intended. 
The  addition  of  the  surname  of  Khamois  in  several  places  proves  that  Satmi 
is  realiy  identical  with  Satni.  Satmi  is  elsewhere  the  title  of  the  priest 
of  Ptah,  which  accords  perfectly  with  our  hero,  who  was  High-priest  of 
Ptah  at  Memphis  (cf.  p.il41,  note  3  of  this  volume). 


146  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

such  and  such  conditions  ?  If  he  does  it  as  it  should  be 
done,  I  will  proclaim  the  inferiority  of  my  country  to 
Egypt.  But  if  it  happens  that  there  is  no  good  scribe 
nor  learned  man  in  Egypt  who  can  do  it,  I  will  proclaim 
the  inferiority  of  Egypt  to  my  country.' "  Now,  when  he 
had  spoken  thus.  King  Usimares,  1.  h.  s.,  called  his  son 
Satmi  and  repeated  to  him  aU  the  things  that  the  messenger 
had  said  to  him,  and  his  son  Satmi  at  once  gave  him  the 
right  reply  that  the  chief  of  the  foreign  country  had  de- 
vised, and  the  messenger  was  obliged  to  proclaim  the 
inferiority  of  his  country  to  the  land  of  Egypt.  And  none 
of  the  chiefs  who  had  sent  messengers  could  triumph  over 
him,  for  the  wisdom  of  Satmi  was  great,  so  that  there 
was  no  ruler  in  the  world  who  dared  to  send  messengers 
to  Pharaoh.' 

And  after  that  it  chanced  that  Satmi  had  no  man  child 
by  his  wife  Mahituaskhit,  and  it  afflicted  him  greatly  in 
his  heart,  and  his  wife  Mahituaskhit  was  greatly  afflicted 
with  him.  Now  one  day  when  he  was  more  sad  than 
usual,  his  wife  Mahituaskhit  went  to  the  temple  of  Imuthes, 
son  of  Ptah,  and  she  prayed  before  him,  saying :  "  Turn 
thy  face  towards  me,  my  lord  Imuthes,  son  of  Ptah;  it 
is  thou  who  dost  work  miracles,  and  who  art  beneficent 
in  all  thy  deeds;  it  is  thou  who  givest  a  son  to  her  who 
has  none.  Listen  to  my  lamentation  and  give  me  con- 
ception of  a  man-child."  ^  Mahituaskhit,  the  wife  of  Satmi, 
slept  in  the  temple  and  she  dreamed  a  dream  that  same 

'  The  theme  of  this  opening  was  suggested  to  me  by  the  passage  that 
will  be  read  farther  on,  pp.  153  et  seq.  I  have  spoken  in  the  Introduction, 
pp.  xxix-xxx,  of  the  idea  of  a  challenge  between  kings  as  a  theme  current 
in  Egypt. 

^  I  have  restored  this  passage  from  a  scene  that  occurs  later  (p.  161), 
where  the  sorcerer  Horus  the  Egyptian  passes  the  night  in  the  temple 
of  Thoth,  to  obtain  a  prophetic  dream  (cf.  Maspero,  Le  debut  du  second 
Conte  de  Satni-Khdmoh,  in  Melanges  Nioole,  pp.  349-355).  A  stela  of 
the  time  of  Augustus,  slightly  anterior  to  the  redaction  of  our  papyrus, 
provides  us  with  a  good  example  of  a  dream,  followed  by  the  birth  of 
a  child  (Prisse  d'Avenne,  Monuments,  pi.  xxvl  bis). 


THE   VERITABLE  HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     147 

nighfc.^      One    spake   with    her,   saying :    "  Art    thou    not 
Mahituaskhit,   the   wife  of  Satmi,  who   dost  sleep  in  the 
temple  to  receive  a  remedy  for  thy  sterility  from  the  hands 
of  the  god  ?     When  to-morrow  morning  comes,  go  to  the 
bath-room  of  Satmi  ^   thy  husband,  and   thou  wilt  find   a 
root  of  colocasia  that  is  growing  there.     The  colocasia  that 
thou  meetest  with  thou  shalt  gather  with  its  leaves,  thou 
shalt   make  of  it  a  remedy  that  thou  shalt  give  to  thy 
husband,  then  thou  shalt  lie  by  his  side,  and  thou  shalt 
conceive   by   him   the    same  night."     When   Mahituaskhit 
awoke  from  her  dream  after  having  seen  these  things  she 
did  everything  according  to  that  which  had  been  told  her 
in   her   dream ;    then    she   lay  by  the   side   of   Satmi   her 
husband,  and  she  conceived  by  him.     When  the  time  came 
she  had  the  signs  of  pregnant  women,  and  Satmi  announced 
it   to  Pharaoh,  for  his  heart  rejoiced  greatly  thereat;  he 
bound  an  amulet  upon  her,  and  recited  a  spell  over  her. 
Now,    Satmi   slept   one   night   and   he   dreamed   a   dream. 
One  spoke  to  him,  saying:  "Mahituaskhit  thy  wife,  who 
has  conceived  by  thee,  the  infant  that  she  shall  bear  shall 
be    called    Senosiris,   and  many  will   be   the  wonders   that 
he  will  perform  in  the  land  of  Egypt."     When  Satmi  awoke 
from  his  dream  after  having  seen  these  things,  his  heart 
rejoiced    greatly.      When   the   months   of  pregnancy  were 
fulfilled,  when  the  time  for  the  birth  was  come,  Mahituaskhit 
brought   into   the  world   a   man-child.     They  told  this  to 
Satmi,  and  he  called  the  child  Senosiris,  according  to  that 
which  was   told   him    in    his  dream.     He  was  put  to  the 
breast   of  Mahitusakhit,  his   mother,   as   soon   as   she   was 
delivered  of  the  remains  of  her  pregnancy,  and  he  was  fed 
by  her.     And  it  came  to  pass,  when  the  little  child  Senosiris 

'  It  is  here  that  the  part  of  the  text  that  is  preserved  commences. 

'  Griffith  considers,  but  not  without  some  doubt,  that  this  refers  to 
the  latrines  in  Satmi's  house.  I  think  rather  that  it  refers  to  a  fountain, 
a  bath-room,  or  a  kind  of  artificial  reservoir,  such  as  we  found  in  front  of 
the  temple  of  Denderah  during  the  winter  of  1904-5. 


148  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

was  one  year  old,  one  would  have  said,  "  He  is  two  years 
old " ;  when  he  was  two,  one  would  have  said,  "  He  is 
three  years  old,"  so  vigorous  was  he  in  all  his  limbs.  It 
came  to  pass,  however,  that  Satmi  could  not  live  an  hour 
without  seeing  the  little  child  Senosiris,  so  great  was  the 
love  that  he  bore  him.  When  he  became  big  and  strong 
he  was  sent  to  school ;  in  a  little  time  he  knew  more  than 
the  scribe  who  had  been  given  him  as  master.  The  little 
child  Senosiris  began  to  read  the  books  of  magic  with  the 
scribes  of  the  Double  House  of  Life  of  the  Temple  of  Ptah,^ 
and  all  who  heard  him  were  lost  in  astonishment.  Satmi 
delighted  in  taking  him  to  the  festival  before  Pharaoh,  so 
that  all  the  magicians  of  Pharaoh  should  compete  with 
him,  and  he  remained  head  of  them  all. 

And  after  that  it  came  to  pass,  one  day  when  Satmi  was 
washing  himself  for  the  festival  on  the  roof  of  his  apart- 
ments, and  the  little  boy  Senosiris  was  washing  with  him 
to  go  also  to  the  festival,  at  that  hour,  behold  Satmi  heard 
a  voice  of  lamentation  which  was  very  loud.  He  looked  out 
from  the  roof  of  his  dwelling,  and  lo  !  he  saw  a  rich  man 
being  carried  to  his  burial  in  the  mountain  with  much 
lamentation  and  plenitude  of  honours.  He  looked  down  a 
second  time  at  his  feet,  and  behold  a  poor  man  was  being 
carried  out  of  Memphis,  rolled  in  a  mat,  alone,  and  without 
a  man  in  the  world  who  walked  behind  him.  Satmi  said, 
"  By  the  life  of  Osiris,  lord  of  Amentit,  let  there  be  done 
for  me  in  Amentit,  as  for  these  rich  ones  who  have  great 
lamentation,  and  not  as  these  poor  ones  who  are  carried  to 
the  mountain  without  pomp  or  honours.''  Senosiris,  his 
little  child,  said  to  him,  "Let  there  be  done  to  thee  in 
Amentit  that  which  is  done  for  that  poor  man  in  Amentit, 
and  may  that  not  be  done  to  thee  in  Amentit  that  is  done  to 
that  rich  man  in  Amentit."  When  Satmi  heard  these  words 
that  Senosiris,  his  little  child,  had  said  to  him,  his  heart 
'  For  the  Double  Howe  of  I/if e  see  what  is  said  above,  p.  122,  note  1. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY  OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     149 

was  greatly  afBicted,  and  he  said,  "  Is  that  which  I  hear 
the  voice  of  a  son  who  loves  his  father  ? "  Senosiris,  his 
little  child,  said  to  him,  "If  it  please  thee,  I  will  show 
thee,  each  in  his  place,  ihe  poor  man  who  was  not 
wept  for,  and  the  rich  man  over  whom  there  was  lamen- 
tation." Satmi  asked,  "And  how  wilt  thou  do  that,  my 
son  Senosiris  ?  "  And  after  that  Senosiris,  the  little  child, 
recited  his  books  of  magic.  He  took  his  father  Satmi  by 
the  hand  and  led  him  to  a  place  that  he  did  not  know  of 
in  the  mountain  of  Memphis.  It  contained  seven  large 
halls,!  and  in  them  were  men  of  all  conditions.  They 
crossed  three  of  the  halls,  the  first  three  without  any  one 
stopping  them.^  On  entering  the  fourth,  Satmi  perceived 
persons  who  ran  and  moved  about  while  the  asses  ate  behind 
them  ^ ;  others  had  their  food,  water  and  bread,  hung  above 
them,  and  they  leapt  up  to  pull  it  down,  while  others  dug 
holes  under  their  feet  to  prevent  their  reaching  it.  When 
they  arrived  at  the  fifth  hall,  Satmi  perceived  the  venerable 
manes  who  were  each  in  their  proper  place,  but  those  who 
were  guilty  of  crimes  stood  at  the  door  as  suppliants ;  and 
the  pivot  of  the  door  of  the  fifth  hall  was  fixed  on  the 
single  right  eye  of  a  man  who  prayed  and  uttered  great  cries.* 

'  The  seven  great  halls  of  the  lower  world  described  here  are  those 
referred  to  in  chapters  cxliv  and  cxlvii  of  the  Book  of  the  Dead.  The 
same  number  has  passed  (from  a  descent  into  the  lower  world  now  lost) 
into  the  Hermetic  books  (Zosymus,  §  v,  in  Berthelot,  Les  Alchimistes  Chrecs, 
vol.  i,  pp.  115-118,  and  vol.  ii,  pp.  125-127;  of.  Keitzenstein,  Poim-andres, 
pp.  S-11). 

^  From  the  place  where  it  is  said  that  Satmi  was  grieved  by  his  son's 
words,  as  far  as  where  we  find  him  entering  the  fourth  hall,  only  a  few 
words  remain  of  each  line,  and  even  their  places  are  uncertain.  It  is  pro- 
bable that  the  description  of  the  first  three  halls  contained  nothing  of 
interest.  In  any  case  it  was  very  short,  and  at  most  covered  only  four  or 
five  lines. 

'  As  will  be  seen  later  (p.  152),  tlie  asses  who  eat  behind  are  the  women 
who  devoured  the  substance  of  individuals  during  their  life.  Cf.  the 
Greek  legend  of  Ocnos  and  the  ass,  who  devoured  all  his  labour  behind 
him  (Pausanias,  Hellenica,  x,  24). 

*  The  idea  of  this  punishment  was  very  ancient  in  Egypt.  As  early  as 
the  Thinite  period,  at  Hieraconpolis,  on  the  threshold  of  one  of  the  gates 
15 


150  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

When   they   arrived   at  the    sixth    hall,    Satmi    perceived 
the    gods   of  the   council   of   the   men    of   the    people    of 
Amentit,   who  were  each  in  their  proper  place,   while  the 
doorkeepers    of   Amentit  called    the   cases.      When    they 
arrived  at  the  seventh  hall,  Satmi  perceived  the  image  of 
Osiris,  the    great  god,  seated    on  his    throne  of  fine  gold, 
and  crowned  with  a  diadem  with  two  feathers,'  Anubis  the 
great  god  on  his  left,  the  great  god  Thoth  on  his  right, 
the  gods  of  the  council  of  the  people  of  Amentit  on  his 
left  and  on  his  right,  the  balance  set  up  in  the  middle  in 
front  of  them,  where  they  weighed  misdeeds  against  good 
deeds,  while  Thoth   the  great  god   performed  the   part  of 
scribe  and  Anubis  addressed  them.^     Him  whose  misdeeds 
they  found  more  numerous  than  his  good  deeds  they  de- 
livered   to    Amait,    the    bitch    belonging    to    the    lord    of 
Amentit ; '    they  destroyed  his  soul  and  his  body,  and  did 
not  permit  him  to    breathe  any  more.      Him  whose  good 
deeds  they  found  more  numerous  than  his  evil  deeds,  they 
lead   him  among  the  gods  of   the  council  of   the  lord  of 
Amentit,  and  his  soul  goes  to  heaven  among  the  venerable 
names.     Him  whose  merits  they  find  equal  with  his  faults, 
him  they  place  among  the  manes  furnished  with  amulets 
who  serve  Sokarosiris. 

Then  Satmi  perceived  a  personage  of  distinction,  clad  in 


of  the  temple,  there  are  figures  of  human  beings  lying  face  downwards, 
over  which  the  leaf  of  the  door  passed  when  opening  and  shutting 
(Quibell,  HieraconpoKs,  vol.  i,  pi.  1).  They  were  the  enemies  of  the  god, 
whom  the  faithful  trod  underfoot  every  time  they  came  to  worship  him. 

'  This  diadem,  called  by  the  Egyptians  iatef,  iotef,  was  formed  of  the 
white  crown  of  Upper  Egypt,  and  the  two  ostrich  feathers  set  right  and 
left. 

'  This  is  an  exact  description  of  the  scene  of  the  judgment  of  the  soul, 
as  it  is  represented  in  some  instances  on  wooden  coffins  and  stone  sarcophagi 
of  the  Ptolemaic  period,  and  as  it  is  figured  at  the  head  of  chapter  cxxv 
of  the  Book  of  the  Dead. 

'  Amait  is  usually  represented  as  a  female  hippopotamus,  seated  In  front 
of  Osiris  near  the  balance,  with  open  mouth,  waiting  for  any  of  the  dead 
who  shall  be  pronounced  guilty. 


THE   VERITABLE  HISTORY  OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     ISl 

materials  of  fine  linen,  and  who  was  near  the  place  where 
Osiris  was,  in  a  very  lofty  rank.  While  Satmi  marvelled 
at  all  that  he  saw  in  Amentit,  Senosiris  placed  himself  before 
him,  saying,  "  My  father,  Satmi,  dost  thou  not  see  that  high 
personage  clad  in  raiment  of  fine  linen,  and  who  is  near 
the  place  where  Osiris  is  ?  It  is  that  poor  man  whom  thou 
sawest  who  was  carried  out  of  Memphis,  with  no  one  accom- 
panying him,  and  rolled  in  a  mat.  He  was  taken  to  Hades, 
his  misdeeds  were  weighed  against  the  merits  he  had  while 
on  earth ;  the  merits  were  found  more  numerous  than  the 
misdeeds.  As  there  was  no  total  of  happiness  while  he 
was  on  earth  sufficient  to  correspond  with  the  length  of 
life  inscribed  to  his  account  by  Thoth,  an  order  was  given 
on  the  part  of  Osiris  to  transfer  the  funerary  outfit  of  the 
rich  man  thou  sawest  carried  out  of  Memphis  with  many 
honours  to  this  poor  man,  beside  placing  him  among  the 
venerable  manes,  fief  of  Sokarosiris,  near  the  place  where 
Osiris  is.  That  rich  man  thou  sawest,  he  was  taken  to  Hades, 
his  misdeeds  were  weighed  against  his  merits,  the  misdeeds 
were  found  more  numerous  than  his  merits  that  he  had  on 
earth,  and  command  was  given  that  he  should  be  punished 
in  Amentit,  and  he  it  is  whom  thou  sawest,  the  j)ivot  of  the 
door  of  Amentit  planted  on  his  right  eye  and  revolving 
on  that  eye,  whether  it  be  closed  or  open,  while  his  mouth 
utters  loud  cries.  By  the  life  of  Osiris,  the  great  god,  lord 
of  Amentit,  if- 1  said  to  thee  on  earth,  "May  it  be  done 
to  thee  as  to  that  poor  man,  but  may  it  not  be  done  to  thee 
as  to  that  rich  man,  it  was  because  I  knew  what  was  about 
to  happen  to  him."  Satmi  said,  "  My  son,  Senosiris,  many 
are  the  marvels  that  I  have  seen  in  Amentit !  Now,  there- 
fore, cause  me  to  know  who  are  those  persons  who  run  and 
move  about  while  asses  eat  behind  them ;  also  about  those 
others  who  have  their  food,  bread  and  water,  hung  above 
them,  and  who  leap  in  order  to  pull  it  down,  while  others 
dig  holes  at  their  feet  to  prevent  their  reaching  it."    Senosiris 


152  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

replied,  "  Verily,  I  say  to  thee,  my  father  Satmi,  those  men 
that  thou  sawest  who  run  and  move  about  while  asses  eat 
behind  them,  are  the  figure  of  the  men  of  this  world  who 
are  under  the  curse  of  God,  who  work  night  and  day  for 
their  food,  but  because  their  wives  steal  what  is  theirs  from 
behind,  they  have  not  bread  to  eat.  When  they  appear  in 
Amentit,  it  is  found  that  their  misdeeds  are  more  numerous 
than  their  merits,  and  they  find  that  what  happened  to 
them  on  earth  happens  to  them  again  in  Amentit.  With 
them  also,  as  with  those  thou  sawest,  their  food,  water  and 
bread,  hung  above  them,  and  who  leapt  to  draw  it  down, 
while  others  dug  holes  at  their  feet  to  prevent  their  reaching 
it :  these  are  the  figure  of  the  people  of  this  world  who 
have  their  food  before  them,  but  the  god  digs  out  holes 
before  them  to  prevent  their  finding  it.  When  they  appear 
in  Amentit,  lo  !  that  which  happened  to  them  on  earth 
happens  to  them  again  in  Amentit.  For  having  received 
their  soul  in  Amentit,  they  find,  if  it  please  thee,  my  father 
Satmi,  that  he  who  does  good  on  earth,  good  is  done  to 
him  in  Amentit,  but  he  who  does  evil,  evil  is  done  to  him. 
They  have  been  established  for  ever,  and  these  things  that 
thou  seest  in  the  Hades  of  Memphis  will  never  change,  and 
they  are  produced  in  the  forty-two  nomes  where  are  the 
gods  of  the  council  of  Osiris.' 

When  Senosiris  had  finished  these  words  that  he  spake 
before  Satmi  his  father,  he  went  up  to  the  mountain  of 
Memphis,  holding  his  father  embraced,  and  his  hand  in  his 
hand.  Satmi  asked  him,  saying,  "  My  son  Senosiris,  is  the 
place  where  one  descends  different  to  that  by  which  we 
came  up  ? "  Senosiris  did  not  reply  to  Satmi  any  word  in 
the  world,   and   Satmi   marvelled  at  the  discourse  he  had 


'  The  jury  of  the  Inferno,  before  whom  the  dead  are  tried,  were  com- 
posed of  as  many  members  as  there  were  nomes  in  Upper  and  Lower 
Egypt.  Each  of  them  was  competent  for  a  special  sin,  and  judged  the 
dead  on  that  sin. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     153 

made,  saying,  "  He  will  be  capable  of  becoming  one  of  the 
actual  manes  and  a  servant  of  the  god,  and  I  shall  go  to 
Hades  with  him  saying  '  This  is  my  son.' '  Satmi  repeated 
a  formula  of  the  book  to  exorcise  the  manes,  and  he 
remained  in  the  greatest  amazement  in  the  world  because 
of  the  things  he  had  seen  in  Amentit,  but  they  weighed 
greatly  on  his  heart,  because  he  could  not  reveal  them  to 
any  man  in  the  world.  When  the  little  boy  Senosiris 
was  twelve  years  old,  there  was  no  scribe  or  magician  in 
Memphis  who  equalled  him  in  reading  books  of  magic. 

After  that  it  happened  one  day  that  Pharaoh  Usimares 
was  seated  in  the  court  of  audience  of  the  palace  of 
Pharaoh  at  Memphis,  while  the  assembly  of  the  princes, 
the  mihtary  chieftains  of  the  chief  ones  of  Egypt,  were 
standing  before  him,  each  one  according  to  his  rank  at 
court,  one  came  to  say  to  his  Majesty,  "  This  is  the  speech 
made  by  a  plague  of  Ethiopia;^  to  wit,  that  he  brings  a 
sealed  letter  on  him."  As  soon  as  this  had  been  told  to 
Pharaoh,  they  brought  the  man  into  the  court.  He  saluted, 
saying,  "  Who  is  there  here  who  can  read  the  letter  I  bring 
for  Egypt  to  Pharaoh  without  breaking  the  seal,  by  reading 
the  writing  that  is  in  it  without  opening  it  ?  If  it  chances 
that  there  is  no  good  scribe,  nor  learned  man  in  Egypt 
who  can  read  it  without  opening  it,  I  shall  report  the 
inferiority  of  Egypt  to  my  country,  the  land  of  the  Negroes." 
When  Pharaoh  and  his  princes  heard  these  words  they  no 
longer  knew  the  part  of  the  world  where  they  were,  and  they 
said  "  By  the  life  of  Ptah,  the  great  god,  is  it  in  the  power 

'  In  other  words,  Senosiris,  when  he  died,  would  be  registered  among 
the  elect,  and  his  father  would  be  admitted  to  Paradise  by  the  virtues  of 
the  son. 

^  The  term  applied  by  the  author  to  the  Ethiopians,  and  more  especially 
to  the  magician  Horus,  son  of  Tnahstt,  atu,  iatu,  lit.  the  scourge,  the 
plague,  is  the  same  that  the  Sallier  Papyrus  No.  1  bestows  on  the  Hyksos 
of  Asiatic  origin  (cf.  p.  270,  note  8),  and  which  was  rendered  in  Greek  by 
Jlanetho  and  his  contemporaries  by  the  epithet  we  translate  imjmre. 


154  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

of  a  good  scribe  or  a  magician,  skilled  in  reading  the  writings 
of  which  he  sees  the  tenor,  to  read  a  letter  without  opening 
it  ? "  Pharaoh  said,  "  Let  Satmi-Khamois,  my  son,  be 
called."  They  hastened,  he  was  brought  immediately; 
he  bowed  himself  to  the  earth,  he  adored  Pharaoh,  then 
he  raised  himself  and  stood  up,  blessing  and  acclaiming 
Pharaoh.  Pharaoh  said  to  him,  "  My  son  Satmi,  hast  thou 
heard  the  words  that  this  plague,  the  Ethiopian,  has  spoken 
before  me,  saying,  '  Is  there  a  good  scribe  or  a  learned  man 
in  Egypt  who  can  read  the  letter  which  is  in  my  hand  with- 
out breaking  the  seal,  and  who  knows  that  which  is  written 
in  it  without  opening  it  ?  '"  The  instant  that  Satmi  heard 
these  words,  he  no  longer  knew  the  part  of  the  world  in 
which  he  was,  he  said,  "  My  great  lord,  who  is  there  who 
would  be  capable  of  reading  a  letter  without  opening  it  ? 
Now,  however,  let  me  be  given  ten  days'  respite,  to  let  me 
see  what  I  can  do  to  prevent  the  inferiority  of  Egypt 
being  reported-  in  the  country  of  the  Negroes,  those  eaters 
of  gum."  1  Pharaoh  said,  "  They  are  granted  to  my  son 
Satmi."  A  lodgment  to  which  he  could  retire  was  assigned 
to  the  Ethiopian ;  they  prepared  for  him  various  filth  after 
the  fashion  of  Ethiopia,^  then  Pharaoh  rose  up  in  the  court, 
his  heart  extremely  sad,  and  lay  down  without  eating  or 
drinking. 

Satmi  returned  to  his  apartments  still  without  knowing 
the  part  of  the  world  in  which  he  was.  He  wrapped  himself 
in    his  garments  from  head  to  foot,  and  he  lay  down  still 

'  This  is  an  insult  intended  for  the  negroes,  that  the  poverty  of  their 
country  forced  them  to  obtain  food  by  collecting  gums  of  various  kinds 
from  their  forest  trees.  Some  further  examples  of  this  will  be  found  in 
another  writing  of  the  same  period,  Tlie  High  Emprise  for  the  Throiie  (ct. 
p.  223,  note  1). 

^  The  filth  after  the  fashion  of  Ethiopia  merely  means  food  as  usually 
prepared  by  the  Ethiopians.  The  hatred  that  the  Egyptians  of  Lower 
Egypt  professed  for  the  inhabitants  of  the  Kingdom  of  Napata  was 
felt  not  only  for  the  people,  but  for  all  that  they  used,  even  for  their 
food. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY  OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     165 

without  knowing  the  part  of  the  world  in  which  he  was. 
They  informed   Mahituaskhit,  his  wife;   she  came  to  the 
place  where    Satmi   was,    she   passed    her    hand   below    his 
garments.     She  said  to  him,  "  My  brother  Satmi,  no  fever 
of  the  body,  suppleness  of  the  limbs :  ailment,  sadness  of 
heart."  ^     He  said  to  her,  "  Leave  me,  my  sister  Mahituas- 
khit !      The  matter  about  which   my  heart  is  troubled  is 
not  a  matter  that  it  would  be  well  to  disclose  to  a  woman." 
The  little  boy  Senosiris  then  entered,  he  bent  over  Satmi 
his  father,  and  said  to  him,  "  My  father   Satmi,  wherefore 
art   thou   lying   down,  thy   heart   troubled  ?     The   matters 
that   thou   hast   within   thy   heart,   tell   them  to  me,  that 
I  may  drive  them   from   thee."     He  replied,  "  Leave  me, 
my  child  Senosiris  !     The  matters  which  are  in  my  heart, 
thou    art    not    of  age    to    concern    thyself    with    them." 
Senosiris  said,  "  Tell  them  me,  that  I  may  calm  thy  heart 
with    regard    to    them."     Satmi    said    to    him,    "My   son 
Senosiris,  it  is  a  plague  of  Ethiopia,  who  is  come  to  Egypt, 
bringing  on  his  body  a  sealed  letter,  and  saying,  '  Is  there 
one    here    who   will   read   it    without    opening   it?     If  it 
chances    that    there    is    neither   good    scribe   nor   sage   in 
Egypt   capable  of  reading  it,  I  shall   report  the  inferiority 
of  Egypt  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes,  my  country.'     I  laid 
me    down,    my    heart    troubled   concerning    this,    my   son 
Senosiris."     When  Senosiris  heard  these  words,  he  laughed 
long.     Satmi   said  to  him,  "  Why  dost  thou  laugh  ?  "     He 
said,    "  I    laugh   to   see    thee   thus    laid   down,   thy   heart 
troubled,  for    so    small   a  matter.     Eise,  my  father  Satmi, 
for  I  will  read  the  letter  that  has  been  brought  to  Egypt, 
without   opening  it,   and  also   I  will   find    what  is  written 
in  it  without  breaking  the  seal."     When  Satmi  heard  these 

'  The  wife  of  Satmi  having  tested  and  examined  him  after  the 
manner  of  the  doctors,  sums  up  the  result  of  her  observations  in  the 
form  of  a  short  diagnosis  also  copied  from  medical  diagnoses.  It  is  not 
his  body  that  is  ill,  but  his  spirit ;  sorrow  is  the  malady  he  is  suffering 
from. 


156  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

words,  he  rose  up  suddenly  and  said, "  "What  is  the  guarantee 
for  the  words  that  thou  hast  spoken,  my  child  Senosiris  ?  " 
He  said  to  him,  "  My  father  Satmi,  go  to  the  chambers  on 
the  ground  floor  of  thy  dwelling,  and  every  book  that  thou 
shalt  draw  from  its  vase,^  I  will  tell  thee  what  book  it  is, 
I  will  read  it  without  seeing  it,  standing  before  thee  in 
the  chambers  of  the  ground  floor."  Satmi  arose,  he  stood 
upright,  and  all  that  .Senosiris  had  said,  Senosiris  did  it 
to  the  full ;  Senosiris  read  all  the  books  that  Satmi  his 
father  took  before  him  without  opening  them.  Satmi  went 
up  from  the  chambers  of  the  ground  floor  more  joyful  than 
anybody  in  the  world ;  he  did  not  delay  to  go  to  the  place 
where  Pharaoh  was,  he  related  before  him  all  the  things 
that  the  child  Senosiris  had  said  to  him  in  their  entirety, 
and  the  heart  of  Pharaoh  rejoiced  thereat  extremely. 
Pharaoh  arose  to  make  festival  in  his  time  with  Satmi, 
and  he  caused  Senosiris  to  be  brought  to  the  feast  before 
him ;  they  drank,  they  passed  a  happy  day.  When  the 
next  morning  arrived,  Pharaoh  went  out  into  the  court  of 
audience  in  the  midst  of  his  nobles ;  Pharaoh  sent  to  fetch 
the  plague  of  Ethiopia,  and  he  was  fetched  into  the  court 
with  the  sealed  letter  on  his  body;  he  stood  upright  in  the 
midst  of  the  court.  The  chUd  Senosiris  also  came  into  the 
middle  ;  he  stood  by  the  side  of  the  plague,  the  Ethiopian, 
he  spake  against  him,  saying:  "Malediction,  Ethiopian,  foe 
against  whom  Amon,  thy  god,  is  provoked.^      Thou  it  is  who 

'  The  books  were  enclosed  in  pottery  or  stone  vases  ;  we  have  the 
mention  of  rolls  thus  protected  in  a  catalogue  of  judicial  writings 
(Brugsch,  HieTotisclier  Papyrus  zu  Wien,  in  Zeitsohrift,  1876,  pp.  2,  3). 

'  The  author  of  the  story  is  not  mistaken  in  regarding  Amon  as  the 
protecting  divinity  of  the  plague  of  Ethiopia.  The  kingdom  of  Napata, 
to  which  had  succeeded  the  kingdom  of  Meroe,  that  which  is  here  called 
the  country  of  the  Negroes,  was  founded  by  a  member  of  the  family  of 
the  high  priest  of  the  Theban  Amon,  and  it  had  Amon  as  its  principal 
god.  It  seems  that  the  people  of  the  Delta  and  of  Middle  Egypt  had 
not  forgiven  the  Ethiopians  for  the  division  of  tlie  ancient  Theban 
empire  into  two  independent  states.  The  little  that  is  known  of  their 
writings  shows  real  hostility  against  the  Ethiopians  and  their  god  Amon. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     157 

art  come  up  to  Egypt,  the  pleasant  fruit^garden  of  Osiris,  the 
seat  of  Ra-Harmakhis,  the  beautiful  horizon  of  the  Agatho- 
demon,'  saying,  '  I  shall  report  the  inferiority  of  Egypt  to 
the  land  of  the  Negroes ; '  the  enmity  of  Amon,  thy  god, 
fall  upon  thee !  The  words  that  I  shall  make  pass  before 
thee  and  which  are  ■written  on  this  letter,  say  nothing  that 
is  false  of  them  before  Pharaoh,  thy  sovereign ! "  As  soon 
as  the  plague  of  Ethiopia  saw  the  little  boy  Senosiris 
standing  in  the  court,  he  touched  the  earth  with  his  head, 
and  he  spake,  saying,  "  AH  the  words  that  thou  shalt  speak, 
I  will  say  nothing  of  them  that  is  false." 

Beginning  of  the  tales  told  by  Senosiris,  speaking  them 
in  the  middle  of  the  court  before  Pharaoh  and  before  his 
nobles,  the  people  of  Egypt  listening  to  his  voice,  while 
he  read  the  writing  on  the  letter  of  the  plague  of  Ethiopia, 
who  stood  upright  in  the  middle  of  the  court,  to  wit : 

"  It  happened  one  day  in  the  time  of  Pharaoh  Manakhphre 
Siamanu,^ — he  was  a  beneficent  king  of  the  Entire  Land, 
Egypt  abounded  in  all  good  things  in  his  time,  and  his 
gifts  and  his  works  were  many  in  the  great  temples  of 
Egypt, — it  happened  one  day  that  while  the  king  of  the  land 
of  the  Negroes  was  taking  his  siesta  in  the  pleasure-kiosk 
of  Amon,  he  heard  the  voice  of  three  plagues  of  Ethiopia 
who  talked  in  the  house  behind  him.  One  of  them  spake 
aloud,  saying  among  other  things,  'If  it  pleased  Amon 
to  protect  me  from  harm,  so  that  the  king  of  Egypt 
could  not  injure  me,  I  would  cast  my  spells  over  Egypt 
so  that  I  would  cause  the  people  of  Egypt  to  pass  three 

'  Shai  is  the  name  of  the  great  serpent  that  represented  the  Agatho- 
demon,  the  protecting  deity  of  Egypt,  chiefly  called  Knfiphis  or  Kneph 
after  the  beginning  of  the  Roman  period. 

^  For  this  Pharaoh,  whose  prenomen  recalls  that  of  Thutmosis  III  and  is 
almost  Identical  with  that  of  a  Thiitmosis  and  a  Psammetichus  of  fiction, 
discovered  at  Karnak  and  Asfiin  in  1905  (Maspero,  Ruines  et  Paysages 
d'Egypte,  pp.  225-233).     Cf.  Introduction,  p.  xxv,  o£  this  volume. 


168  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

days  and  three  nights  without  seeing  the  light  after  the 
darkness.'  The  second  said  among  other  things,  '  If  it 
pleased  Amon  to  protect  me  from  harm,  so  that  the  king 
of  Egypt  could  not  injure  me,  I  would  cast  my  spells  over 
Egypt  so  that  I  should  cause  the  Pharaoh  of  Egypt  to 
be  transported  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes,  then  give  him 
a  beating  with  the  kurbash,  five  hundred  strokes  in  public 
before  the  king,  and  finally  to  bring  him  back  to  Egypt 
within  sis  hours  of  time,  no  more.'  The  third  said  among 
other  things,^  '  If  it  pleased  Amon  to  protect  me  from  harm, 
so  that  the  king  of  Egypt  could  not  injure  me,  I  would 
cast  my  spells  over  Egypt  so  that  I  should  prevent  the  fields 
from  producing  during  three  years.'  When  the  king  of 
Ethiopia  heard  the  words  and  the  voice  of  the  three  plagues 
of  Ethiopia  he  had  them  brought  before  him,  and  he 
said  to  them,  'Which  of  you  has  said,  "I  will  cast  my 
spells  over  Egypt  and  I  will  not  allow  the  Egyptians  to 
see  the  light  for  three  days  and  three  nights "  ? '  They 
said,  'It  is  Horus,  the  son  of  Tririt.'^  He  said,  'Which 
of  you  has  said,  "I  will  cast  my  spells  over  Egypt,  I  will 
bring  Pharaoh  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes,  and  I  will  have 
a  beating  administered  to  him  with  the  kurbash,  five 
hundred  blows  in  public  before  the  king,  then  I  will 
cause  him  to  be  taken  back  to  Egypt  in  six  hours  of  time, 
no  more  "  ? '  They  said,  '  It  is  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit.' ' 
He  said,  '  Which  of  you  has  said,  "  I  will  cast  my  spells 
over  Egypt  and  I  will  prevent  the  fields  producing  during 
three  years  "  ? '  They  said, '  It  is  Horus,  the  son  of  Triphit.'  ^ 
The  King  said  to  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  '  Execute  thy 


'  The  speech  of  the  third  sorcerer  has  been  omitted  by  the  scribe, 
but  it  occurs  later,  and  from  that  passage  I  have  been  able  to  re- 
construct it. 

2  Tririt,  Treret,  signifies  the  sow  or  female  hippopotamus. 

'  TiialisU,  Tnehset,  signifies  t?ie  negress. 

*  Triphit  signifies  the  girl,  the  young  woman,  and  is  one  of  the  surnames 
of  Isis,  transcribed  Iriphis  in  Greek. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY  OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     159 

magic  deed  by  thy  book  of  magic,  and  as  Amon  lives,  the 
bull  of  Meroe,  my  god,  if  thy  hand  accomplishes  that 
which  is  pleasing,  I  will  do  thee  good  in  abundance.' 

"  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  fashioned  a  litter  for  four 
bearers,  of  wax,  he  recited  a  magic  writing  over  them, 
he  breathed  on  them  violently,  he  gave  them  life,  he  com- 
manded them  sayiag,  '  You  shall  go  up  to  Egypt,  you  shall 
bring  the  Pharaoh  of  Egypt  to  the  place  where  the  king 
is ;  a  beating  of  the  kurbash  shall  be  given  him,  five  hundred 
blows  in  public  before  the  king,  then  you  shall  take  him 
back  to  Egypt,  the  whole  in  six  hours  of  time,  no  more.' 
They  said,  '  Truly,  we  will  omit  nothing.'  The  sorceries 
of  the  Ethiopian  therefore  went  into  Egypt,  they  made 
themselves  mistresses  of  the  night,^  they  made  themselves 
mistresses  of  Pharaoh  Manakhphre  Siamanu,  they  carried 
him  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes  where  the  king  was,  they 
administered  a  beating  to  him  with  the  kurbash,  five 
hundred  blows  in  public  before  the  king,  then  they  carried 
him  back  to  Egypt,  the  whole  in  six  hours  of  time,  no  more." 

Thus  Sendsiris  told  these  tales,  relating  them  in  the 
middle  of  the  court  before  Pharaoh  and  before  his  nobles, 
and  the  people  of  Egypt  listened  to  his  voice  while  he 
said,  "  The  enmity  of  Amon,  thy  god,  fall  upon  thee  !  The 
words  that  I  have  made  to  pass  before  thee,  are  they 
indeed  those  that  are  written  in  the  letter  that  thou  hast 
in  thy  hand  ?  "  The  plague  of  the  Ethiopians  said,  "  Con- 
tinue to  read,  for  all  the  words  are  true  words,  so  many 
as  they  are." 

Senosiris  said  before  Pharaoh :  "  Then  after  these  things 
had  come  to  pass,  Pharaoh  Siamanu  was  brought  back  to 
Egypt,  his  loins  exceeding  bruised  with  blows,  and  he  lay 


'  The  night  is  peopled  with  beings,  some  evil,  others  good,  which  latter 
protect  sleeping  men  and  women.  The  magic  personages  sent  by  Horus 
the  Ethiopian,  by  making  themselves  masters  of  the  night,  prevent  the 
good  genii  opposing  the  execution  of  their  malicious  schemes. 


160  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

down  in  the  chapel  of  the  city  of  Horus/  his  loins 
exceedingly  bruised  with  blows.  When  the  next  morning 
arrived,  Pharaoh  said  to  his  courtiers,  '  What  has  happened 
in  Egypt,  that  I  should  be  made  to  leave  it?'  Ashamed 
of  their  thoughts,  the  courtiers  said  to  themselves,  '  Perhaps 
the  mind  of  Pharaoh  is  darkened.'  ^  Then  they  said,  '  Thou 
art  whole,  thou  art  whole,  Pharaoh,  our  great  lord,  and  Isis 
the  great  goddess  will  calm  thy  afflictions ;  but  what  is  the 
meaning  of  the  words  that  thou  has  spoken  to  us,  Pharaoh, 
our  great  lord  ?  Since  thou  dost  sleep  in  the  chapel  of  the 
city  of  Horns,  the  gods  protect  thee.'  Pharaoh  arose,  he 
showed  the  courtiers  his  back  exceeding  bruised  with  blows, 
saying,  '  By  the  life  of  Ptah,  the  great  god,  I  was  carried  to 
the  country  of  the  Negroes  during  the  night ;  a  beating  was 
administered  to  me  with  the  kurbash,  five  hundred  blows  in 
public  before  the  king,  then  I  was  brought  back  to  Egypt, 
the  whole  in  six  hours  of  time,  no  more.'  When  they  saw 
the  loins  of  Pharaoh  greatly  bruised  with  blows,  they  opened 
their  mouths  for  great  cries.  Now  Manakhphre  Siamanu 
had  a  master  of  the  mystery  of  the  books,  his  name  Horus,  the 
son  of  Panishi,  who  was  extremely  learned.  When  he  came 
to  the  place  where  the  king  was,  he  uttered  a  loud  cry, 
saying,  '  My  lord,  those  are  the  sorceries  of  the  Ethiopians. 
By  the  life  of  thy  house,  I  will  cause  them  to  come  to  thy 
house  of  torture  and  execution.'  Pharaoh  said  to  him, 
'  Do  it  quickly,  that  I  may  not  be  carried  to  the  country  of 
the  Negroes  another  night.' 

"  The  master  of  the  mystery,  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  went  at 

'  The  city  or  fke  castle  of  Horus  is  the  royal  palace  in  the  official 
phraseology  of  Egypt,  and  the  chapel  of  this  city  is  the  sleeping  chamber 
of  Horus,  i.e.  of  Pharaoh. 

^  The  courtiers,  who  as  yet  knew  nothing  of  the  events  of  the  night,  are 
disconcerted  by  the  King's  question,  and  imagine  that  he  is  drunk  to  the 
point  of  losing  his  reason,  or  that  he  has  been  smitten  with  sudden 
madness.  In  any  case  they  are  ashamed  of  their  thought,  and  befoi'e 
expressing  it  aloud,  they  ask  the  sovereign  for  an  explanation  of  the  words 
he  has  just  uttered. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     161 

once ;  he  took  his  books  with  his  amulets  to  the  place  where 
Pharaoh  was,  he  read  a  formula  to  him,  he  bound  an  amulet 
on  him  to  prevent  the  sorceries  of  the  Ethiopians  taking 
possession  of  him ;  he  then  went  out  from  before  Pharaoh, 
he  took  his  bowls  of  perfumes  and  libation  vases,  he  embarked 
on  a  boat,  and  he  went  without  delay  to  Khmunu.^  He 
entered  the  temple  of  Khmunu,  he  offered  incense  and  water 
before  Thoth,  nine  times  great,^  Lord  of  Hermopolis,  the  great 
god,  and  he  prayed  before  him,  saying  '  Turn  thy  face  to  me, 
my  lord  Thoth,  so  that  the  Ethiopians  may  not  report  the 
inferiority  of  Egypt  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes.  It  is  thou 
who  didst  create  magic  by  spells,  thou  who  didst  suspend 
the  heavens,  establish  the  earth  and  Hades,  and  placed 
the  gods  with  the  stars ;  let  me  know  the  way  to  save 
Pharaoh  from  the  sorceries  of  the  Ethiopians.'  Horus,  the 
son  of  Panishi,  slept  in  the  temple  and  he  dreamed  a  dream 
that  same  night.  The  figure  of  the  great  god  Thoth  spake 
with  him,  saying,  "  Art  thou  not  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  the 
master  of  the  mystery  of  Pharaoh  Manakhphre  Siamanu? 
Then  on  the  morrow,  in  the  morning,  go  into  the  hall  of 
the  books  of  the  temple  of  Khmunu;  thou  wilt  there 
discover  a  naos,  closed  and  sealed,  thou  shalt  open  it,  and 
thou  shalt  find  there  a  box  containing  a  book,  one  that  I 
wrote  with  my  own  hand.  Take  it  out,  take  a  copy  of 
it,  then  put  it  back  in  its  place,  for  it  is  the  same  book 
of  magic  that  protects  me  against  the  wicked,  and  it  is 
that  which  shall  protect  Pharaoh,  it  is  that  which  shall 
save  him  from  the  sorceries  of  the  Ethiopians.' 

'  KhmunQ  is  the  Ashmuneln  of  the  Arabs  the  Hermopolis  of  the  Greeks, 
the  city  of  Thoth,  Hermes  Trismegistus,  the  god  who  is  lord  of  magic  and 
incantations.  It  is  natural  that  the  magician  Horns  should  go  there  to 
consult  his  patron  deity. 

^  Thoth  is  called  the  tioice  great,  which  is  like  the  comparative,  and  tlte 
thrice  great,  which  is  the  superlative  megistos ;  the  epithet  Trismegistus, 
which  is  given  him  especially  at  the  Grjeco-Roman  period,  is  therefore 
the  superlative  of  a  superlative,  and  properly  speaking,  signifies  the  three 
times  three  the  greatest,  the  equivalent  of  the  nine  times  great  of  the  text. 


162  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

"  When  therefore  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  awoke  from 
his   dream  after  having  seen  these  things,  he  found   that 
which  had  chanced  to  him  had  chanced  to  him  by  a  divine 
act,  and  he  acted  in  everything  as  it  had  been  said  to  him 
in  his  dream.i     He  did  not  delay  to  go  to  the  place  where 
Pharaoh  was,  and  he  made  him  a  charm  written  against 
sorcery.      When   it  was  the  second    day,  the   sorceries   of 
Horus,  son  of  Tnahsit,  returned  to  Egypt  during  the  night 
to  the  place  where  Pharaoh  was,  then  they  went  back  to  the 
place  where  the  king  was  in  the  same  hour,  for  they  could 
not  overmaster  Pharaoh,  because  of  the  charms  and  sorceries 
that  the  master  of  the  mystery,  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  had 
bound   upon   him.      The  next   morning  Pharaoh   told   the 
master  of  the  mystery,  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  all  that  he 
had   seen  during  the  night,    and  how  the   sorceries   of  the 
Ethiopians  had   gone   away  without  being    able   to  master 
him.     Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  caused  a  quantity  of  pure 
wax  to  be  brought,  he  made  of  it  a  litter  with  four  bearers, 
he  recited  a  written  formula  over  them,  he  breathed  violently 
on  them,    he   caused  them   to   live,  he   commanded   them, 
saying,   '  You  shall  go  to  the  country  of  the  Negroes  this 
night,  you  shall  bring  the  king  to  Egypt  to  the  place  where 
Pharaoh  is  :  a  beating  with  a  kurbash  shall  be  given  him, 
five   hundred   blows,  in   public,  before  Pharaoh,  then   you 
shall  take  him  back  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes,  all  in  six 
hours  of  time,  no  more.'     They  said,  'Verily  we  will  omit 
nothing.'     The  sorceries  of  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  sped 
away  on  the  clouds  of  heaven,  they  did  not  delay  to  go  to 
the  land  of  the  Negroes  during  the  night.     They  seized  the 
king,  they  brought  him  to  Egypt ;  a  beating  with  the  kur- 
bash was  given  him,  five  hundred  blows  in  public  before  the 
king,  they  then  carried  him  back  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes, 
the  whole  in  six  hours  of  time,  no  more." 

'  See  at  beginning  of  this  story,  pp.  146,  147,  another  example  of  in- 
cubation and  a  prophetic  dream. 


THE   VERITABLE   HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     163 

These  tales  then  were  told  by  Senosiris,  relating  them  in 
the  middle  of  the  court,  before  Pharaoh  and  before  his 
nobles,  the  people  of  Egypt  listening  to  his  voice,  while  he 
said  "The  enmity  of  Amon,  thy  god,  fall  on  thee,  wicked 
Ethiopian !  The  words  that  I  speak  are  they  those  that  are 
written  in  thy  letter  ?  "  The  Ethiopian  said,  his  head  bent 
to  the  ground,  "  Continue  to  read,  for  all  the  words  thou 
sayest  are  those  that  are  written  in  this  letter." 

Senosiris  said :  "  Then  after  these  things  had  happened, 
that  the  king  of  the  land  of  the  Negroes  had  been  taken 
back   in   six   hours,   no  more,  and  had   been    set   down  in 
his   place,    he   lay   down,   and   he   rose   next   morning  ex- 
ceedingly bruised  by  the  blows  that  had  been  given  him 
in   Egypt.      He    said   to   his   courtiers,    'That   which    my 
sorceries  did  to  Pharaoh,  the  sorceries  of  Pharaoh  have  done 
to  me  in  my  turn.     They  carried  me  into  Egypt  during 
the   night  ^ :    a   beating  with  the   kurbash  was  given   me, 
five  hundred  blows,  before  Pharaoh  of  Egypt,  and  they  then 
brought  me  back  into  the   country  of  the  Negroes.'     He 
turned   his   back  to  the  courtiers,  and  they  opened  their 
mouths   for   great  cries.     The  King  caused  Horus,   son  of 
Tnahsit,  to   be   fetched,   and    said,    'Beware  for   thyself  of 
Amon,   the  bull  of  Meroe,  my  god !     As  it  is  thou  who 
didst  go  to  the  people  of  Egypt,  let  us  see  how  thou  canst 
save  me  from  the  sorceries  of  Horus,  son  of  Panishi.'     He 
made  some  sorceries,  he  bound  them  on  the  king,  to  save 
him  from  the  sorceries  of  Horus,  son  of  Panishi.     When 
it  was  the  night  of  the  second  day  the  sorceries  of  Horus, 
son  of  Panishi,  transported  themselves  to  the   country  of 
the  Negroes,  and  carried  off  the  king  to  Egypt.     A  beating 
was  given  him  with  a  kurbash,  five  hundred  blows  in  public 
before  Pharaoh,  then  they  carried  him  back  to  the  country 

•  The  whole  of  this  passage  is  almost  completely  destroyed.  I  have 
reconstructed  it  according  to  the  parallel  development  that  occurs  earlier, 
p.  159. 


164  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

of  the  Negroes,  the  whole  in  six  hours  of  time,  no  more. 
This  treatment  happened  to  the  king  for  three  days,  while 
the  sorceries  of  the  Ethiopians  were  not  able  to  save  the 
king  from  the  hand  of  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  and  the 
king  was  extremely  afHicted,  and  he  caused  Horus,  son 
of  Tnahsit,  to  be  brought,  and  said  to  him,  'Sorrow  to 
thee,  enemy  of  Ethiopia,  after  having  humiliated  me  by  the 
hand  of  the  Egyptians,  thou  hast  not  been  able  to  save  me 
from  their  hands !  By  the  life  of  Amon,  the  bull  of  Meroe, 
my  god,  if  it  happens  that  thou  knowest  not  how  to 
save  me  from  the  magic  barks  of  the  Egyptians,  I  will 
deliver  thee  to  an  evil  death,  and  it  shall  be  slow  for 
thee.'  He  said,  'My  lord  the  king,  let  me  be  sent  to 
Egypt  that  I  may  see  that  one  of  the  Egyptians  who 
makes  the  enchantments,  that  I  may  work  magic  against 
him,  and  inflict  on  him  the  punishment  I  meditate  against 
his  hands.'  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  was  sent  therefore, 
on  behalf  of  the  king,  and  he  went  first  to  the  place 
where  his  mother  Tnahsit  was.  She  said  to  him,  '  What 
is  thy  purpose,  my  son  Horus  ? '  He  said  to  her,  '  The 
sorceries  of  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  have  overmastered  my 
sorceries.  Three  times  they  have  transported  the  king 
to  Egypt,  to  the  place  where  Pharaoh  is,  a  beating  has 
been  given  him  with  the  kurbash,  five  hundred  blows  in 
public  before  Pharaoh,  then  they  have  brought  him  back 
to  the  country  of  the  Negroes,  the  whole  in  six  hours  of 
time,  no  more,  and  my  sorceries  have  not  been  able  to 
save  him  from  their  hands.  And  now  the  King  is  ex- 
ceedingly angry  with  me,  and  to  avoid  his  delivering  me 
to  a  slow  and  evil  death,  I  wish  to  go  to  Egypt  to  see 
him  who  makes  these  sorceries  and  to  inflict  on  him  the 
punishment  that  I  meditate  against  his  hands.'  She  said, 
"  Be  wise,  oh  my  son  Horus,  and  do  not  go  to  the  place 
where  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  is.^  If  thou  goest  to  Egypt 
'  The  scribe  has  omitted  the  sorcerer's  speech  and  the  beginning  of 


THE    VERITABLE   HISTORY   OP   SATNI-KHAMOIS     165 

to  conjure  there,  beware  of  the  men  of  Egypt,  for  thou 
canst  not  strive  with  them,  nor  conquer  them,  so  that 
thou  wilt  not  return  to  the  country  of  the  Negroes,  ever.' 
He  said  to  her,  'This  is  nothing  to  me,  that  which  thou 
sayest ;  I  cannot  but  go  to  Egypt,  to  cast  my  spells  there.' 
Tnahsit,  his  mother,  said  to  him,  '  If  then  thou  must  go 
to  Egypt,  arrange  some  signs  between  thee  and  me;  if  it 
chances  that  thou  art  vanquished,  I  will  come  to  thee  to 
see  if  I  can  save  thee.'  He  said  to  her,  '  If  I  am  vanquished, 
when  thou  drinkest  or  when  thou  eatest,  the  water  will 
become  the  colour  of  blood  before  thee,  the  provisions  will 
become  the  colour  of  blood  before  thee,  the  sky  will  become 
the  colour  of  blood  before  thee.'  ^ 

"When  Horus,  son  of  Tnahsit,  had  arranged  these  signs 
between  him  and  his  mother,  he  made  his  way  to  Egypt ; 
having  eaten  his  sorceries^  he  journeyed  from  that  which 
Amon  made '  as  far  as  Memphis  and  to  the  place  where 
Pharaoh  was,  tracking  out*  who  made  magic  of  written 
spells  in  Egypt.  "When  he  arrived  in  the  court  of  audience 
before  Pharaoh,  he  spoke  with  a  loud  voice,  saying  '  Hullo  ! 
who  is  he  who  will  perform  sorceries  against  me  in  the  court  of 
audience,  in  the  place  where  Pharaoh  abides,  in  the  sight  of 
the  people  of  Egypt  ?  The  two  scribes  of  the  House  of  Life, 
or  only  the  scribe  of  the  House  of  Life  who  has  enchanted 

the  mother's  reply  owing  to  dittography,  as  Griffith  has  observed  {Stories 
of  the  High  Priests  of  Memphis,  p.  193,  note).  I  have  filled  in  this  lacuna 
with  sentences  borrowed  from  preceding  passages. 

'  See  above  (p.  10),  the  intersigns  arranged  between  Anupu  and  Baiti. 

''  Horns,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  eats  his  magic,  as  in  the  first  story  of  Satni- 
Khamols,  Satni  drank  the  book  of  Thoth  (p.  129).  Here  it  is  not  to 
assimilate  it,  but  to  conceal  it  from  all  eyes,  and  to  prevent  its  being 
stolen  from  him  on  the  road. 

'  Ethiopia,  which,  as  we  have  seen  (of.  p.  156,  note  2),  is  considered  in 
the  romance  as  being  the  creation  and  the  domain  of  Amon,  in  apposition 
to  Memphis  and  Egypt  of  the  North,  which  belongs  to  Ptah. 

*  This  is  literally  smelling.  He  discovered  by  the  scent,  the  smell 
peculiar  to  sorcerers,  all  such  who  were  among  those  he  met  by  the  way 
and  who  might  either  stop  him,  or  give  notice  of  his  presence  before 
the  time. 

16 


166  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  king,  bringing  him  to  Egypt  notwithstanding  me  ? ' 
After  that  he  had  spoken  on  this  wise,  Horus,  the  son  of 
Panishi,  who  was  standing  in  the  court  of  audience  before 
Pharaoh,  said  '  Hullo  !  Ethiopian  foe,  art  thou  not  Horus, 
son  of  Tnahsit?  Art  thou  not  he  who  in  order  to  charm 
me  in  the  orchards  of  Ea,  having  with  thee  thy  Ethiopian 
companion,  didst  plunge  with  him  into  the  water,  and  didst 
let  thyself  float  with  him  below  the  mountain,  to  the  east  of 
Heliopolis  ?  ^  Is  it  not  thou  who  hast  been  pleased  to  cause 
Pharaoh,  thy  master,  to  travel,  and  who  hast  bruised  him 
with  blows  at  the  place  where  the  king  of  Ethiopia  was,  and 
who  dost  now  come  to  Egypt,  saying,  "Is  there  not  some 
one  here  to  make  sorceries  against  me  ? "  By  the  life  of 
Atumu,  the  master  of  Heliopolis,  the  gods  of  Egypt  have 
brought  thee  here  to  repay  thee  in  their  country.  Take 
courage,  for  I  come  to  thee  ! '  When  Horus,  son  of  Panishi, 
said  these  words,  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  answered  him, 
saying,  '  Art  thou  not  he  to  whom  I  taught  the  saying  of 
the  jackal  ^  who  makes  enchantment  against  me  ? '  The 
Ethiopian  plague  performed  a  deed  of  magic  by  his  book  of 
magic ;  he  caused  a  flame  to  burst  forth  in  the  court  of 
audience,  and  Pharaoh,  as  well  as  the  great  ones  of  Egypt, 
uttered  a  great  cry,  saying,  '  Hasten  to  us,  chief  of  the 
writings,  Horus,  son  of  Panishi ! '  Horus,  the  son  of 
Panishi,  did  a  formula  of  magic;  he  produced  from  the 
sky  a  rain  of  the  south  ^  above  the  flame,  and  it  was  extin- 

'  There  ia  an  allusion  here  to  another  romance  of  which  the  two  Horus 
were  the  heroes,  and  which  must  have  been  sufficiently  well  known  at  this 
time  for  the  readers  of  this  story  to  know  to  what  it  refers.  The  water  is 
evidently  the  iViZe  of  tlie  North,  the  stream  that  rises  near  Gebel-Ahmar, 
at  Ain-Musa,  and  was  supposed  to  be  the  source  of  those  branches  of  the 
Nile  that  water  the  provinces  on  the  east  of  the  Delta. 

^  Is  this  an  allusion  to  the  propositions  of  the  jackal  mentioned  in  one  of 
the  Leyden  demotic  papyri  ? 

'  It  is  from  the  south,  more  exactly  the'  south-west,  that  the  torrential 
rains  usually  come  by  which  Cairo  is  occasionally  deluged  ;  the  expression 
rain  of  the  south  is  therefore  here  the  equivalent  of  sto'rm  or  waterspout. 
On  the  other  hand  the  word  soutlui-n  is  often  employed  with  an  aggrava- 


THE  VERITABLE   HISTORY   OF   SATNI-KHAMOIS     167 

guished  in  a  moment.  The  Ethiopian  performed  another 
deed  of  magic  by  his  book  of  magic;  he  caused  an  immense 
cloud  to  appear  over  the  court  of  audience,  so  that  no  one 
perceived  any  longer  his  brother  or  his  companion.  Horus, 
the  son  of  Panishi,  recited  a  writing  to  the  sky  which  dis- 
persed it,  so  that  it  stilled  the  evil  wind  that  breathed  in 
it.  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  performed  another  deed  of 
magic  by  his  book  of  magic ;  he  caused  an  enormous  roof 
of  stone,  two  hundred  cubits  long  and  fifty  wide,  to  appear 
above  Pharaoh  and  his  princes,  and  that  in  order  to  separate 
Egypt  from  its  king,  the  land  from  its  sovereign.  Pharaoh 
looked  up,  he  perceived  the  roof  of  stone  above  him,  he 
opened  his  mouth  with  a  great  cry,  he  and  the  people  who 
were  in  the  court  of  audience.  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi, 
recited  a  written  formula,  he  caused  a  papyrus  barge  to 
appear,  he  caused  the  stone  roof  to  be  placed  on  it,  and  the 
barge  went  away  with  it  to  the  immense  haven,'  the  great 
lake  of  Egypt. 

"The  Ethiopian  plague  knew  that  he  was  incapable  of 
combating  the  sorcerer  of  Egypt;  he  performed  a  deed  of 
magic  by  written  speUs,  so  that  no  one  saw  him  any  more 
in  the  court  of  audience,  and  that  with  the  intention  of 
going  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes,  his  country.  But  Horus, 
the  son  of  Panishi,  recited  a  writing  over  him,  he  unveiled 
the  enchantments  of  the  Ethiopian,  he  caused  Pharaoh  to 
see  him,  as  well  as  the  people  of  Egypt  who  were  in  the 
court  of  audience,  so  that  he  appeared  as  a  wretched  gosling 
ready  to  start.  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  recited  a  writing 
over  him,  he  turned  him  over  on  his  back  with  a  fowler 
standing  over  him,  a  pointed  knife  in  his  hand,  on  the  point 

tive  shade  of  meaning,  as  in  the  expression  cheetah  of  the  south,  which  we 
have  already  met  with  several  times  (pp.  6,  7,  note  3). 

'  The  Immense  Haven,  Sh-oeri,  is  one  of  the  names  borne  by  Lake 
Moeris ;  the  boat  that  carries  the  stone  roof  is  probably  the  same  that 
is  seen  on  the  Fayum  Papyrus,  bearing  the  sun  god  over  the  waters  of 
Lake  Moeris. 


168  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

of  doing  him  an  evil  turn.  While  all  this  was  being  done, 
the  signs  which  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  had  arranged 
between  him  and  his  mother  '■  occurred  all  of  them  before 
her ;  she  did  not  delay  to  go  up  to  Egypt  in  the  form  of 
a  goose,  and  she  stopped  above  the  palace  of  Pharaoh  ;  she 
called  with  aU  her  voice  to  her  son,  who  had  the  form  of 
a  wretched  bird  menaced  by  the  fowler.  Horus,  son 
of  Panishi,  looked  up  to  the  sky;  he  saw  Tnahsit  under 
the  form  in  which  she  was,  and  he  recognised  that  she  was 
Tnahsit,  the  Ethiopian;  he  recited  a  writing  against  her, 
he  turned  her  over  on  her  back  with  a  fowler  standing  over 
her  with  a  knife  ready  to  deal  death.  She  cast  ofif  the  form 
in  which  she  was,  she  assumed  the  form  of  an  Ethiopian 
woman,  and  she  prayed  him,  saying,  '  Do  not  come  against 
us,  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  but  forgive  us  this  criminal  deed ! 
If  thou  wilt  but  give  us  a  boat,  we  wiU.  never  come  back  to 
Egypt  again.'  Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  swore  by  Pharaoh, 
as  well  as  by  the  gods  of  Egypt,  to  wit,  '  I  will  not  stay  my 
work  of  magic  by  written  spells  if  you  will  not  swear  to  me 
never  to  return  to  Egypt  under  any  pretext.'  Tnahsit 
raised  her  hand  as  witness  that  she  would  not  come  to  Egypt 
for  ever  and  ever.  Horus,  the  son  of  Tnahsit,  swore,  saying, 
'  I  will  not  come  back  to  Egypt  for  fifteen  hundred  years.' 
Horus,  the  son  of  Panishi,  reversed  his  deed  of  magic,  he 
gave  a  boat  to  Horus,  son  of  Tnahsit,  as  well  as  to  lYiahsit, 
his  mother,  and  they  departed  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes, 
their  country." 

This  discourse  Senosiris  uttered  before  Pharaoh  while  the 
people  Hstened  to  his  voice,  and  Satmi,  his  father,  beheld  all, 
the  Ethiopian  plague  being  prostrated  with  his  forehead  to 
the  ground ;  then  he  said,  "  By  the  life  of  thy  countenance,  my 
great  lord,  the  man  here  before  thee  is  Horus,  the  son  of 
Tnahsit,  the  same  whose  doings  I  recount,  who  has  not 
repented  of  that  he  did  before,  but  who  has  come  back  to 

'  See  above,  p.  165,  the  enumeration  of  these  signs. 


THE  VERITABLE  HISTORY  OF  SATNI-KHAMOIS    169 

Egypt  after  fifteen  hundred  years  to  cast  his  enchant- 
ments over  it.  By  the  life  of  Osiris,  the  great  god,  lord 
of  the  Amentit,  before  whom  I  go  to  rest,  I  am  Horus, 
son  of  Panishi,  I  who  stand  here  before  Pharaoh.  When 
I  learnt  in  Amentit  that  this  Ethiopian  enemy  was  going 
to  hurl  sacrilege  against  Egypt,  as  there  was  no  longer  a 
good  scribe  or  a  sage  in  Egypt  who  could  contend  with 
him,  I  implored  Osiris  in  Amentit  to  allow  me  to  appear 
again  on  earth  to  prevent  his  reporting  the  inferiority  of 
Egypt  to  the  land  of  the  Negroes.  Command  was  given 
on  the  part  of  Osiris  to  return  me  to  earth,  I  came  back 
as  a  seed  until  I  met  with  Satmi,  the  son  of  Pharaoh,  on 
the  mountain  of  Heliopolis  or  Memphis.  I  grew  in  that 
plant  of  colocasia  in  order  to  enter  a  body  and  be  born 
again  on  earth  to  make  enchantments  against  that  Ethio- 
pian enemy  who  is  there  in  the  court  of  audience." 
Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  performed  a  deed  of  magic  by 
written  spells  in  the  form  of  Senosiris  against  the  plague 
of  Ethiopia;  he  surrounded  him  with  a  fire,  which  con- 
sumed him  in  the  midst  of  the  court,  in  the  sight  of 
Pharaoh,  as  well  as  of  his  nobles  and  the  people  of  Egypt, 
then  Senosiris  vanished  as  a  shadow  from  before  Pharaoh 
and  his  father  Satmi,  so  that  they  saw  him  no  more. 

Pharaoh  marvelled  more  than  anything  in  the  world,  as 
well  as  his  nobles,  at  the  things  that  he  had  seen  in  the 
court  of  audience,  saying,  "  There  has  never  been  a  good 
scribe,  nor  a  sage,  equal  to  Horus,  son  of  Panishi,  and 
there  will  never  again  be  another  of  his  like  after  him." 
Satmi  opened  his  mouth  with  a  great  cry,  because  that 
Senosiris  had  vanished  like  a  shadow,  and  he  saw  him  no 
longer.  Pharaoh  rose  from  the  court  of  audience,  his  heart 
very  afflicted  with  that  which  he  had  seen ;  Pharaoh  com- 
manded that  preparations  should  be  made  in  the  presence  of 
Satmi  to  entertain  him  well  on  account  of  his  son  Senosiris 
and  to  comfort  his  heart.     When  the  evening  came  Satmi 


170  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

went  to  his  lodging,  his  heart  greatly  troubled,  and  his  wife 
Mahituaskhit  lay  down  by  his  side,  she  conceived  of  him 
that  same  night,  she  did  not  delay  to  bring  into  the  world  a 
man  child,  who  was  named  Usimanthor.  Nevertheless,  it 
happened  that  Satmi  never  omitted  to  make  offerings 
and  libations  before  the  genius  of  Horus,  son  of  Panishi, 
at  all  times.     Here  is  the  end  of  this  book  written  by  ...  . 

Ill 

HOW    SATNI-KHAMOis   TRIUMPHED    OVER   THE   ASSYRIANS 

Foe  a  long  time  the  romantic  character  of  the  narrative  told  us  by 
Herodotus  in  the  second  book,  chapter  cxli,  of  his  history  has  been 
recognised.  It  is  the  story  of  Sethon,  priest  of  Vulcan,  who 
triumphed  over  the  Assyrians  and  their  king  Sennacherib.  One 
would  gladly  agree  that  it  is  an  Egyptian  version  of  the  facts 
recorded  in  the  Bible  in  The  Second  Book  of  Kings  (xix,  35,  36),  but 
we  do  not  know  who  the  Sethon  was  to  whom  popular  imagination 
ascribed  this  miracle.  King  Zet,  whom  Africanus  adds  to  the  lists 
of  Manetho  at  the  end  of  the  XXIIIrd  dynasty,  is  perhaps  only 
a  slightly  altered  double  of  the  Sethon  of  Herodotus,  and  up  to 
the  present  the  monuments  of  the  Assyrian  or  Ethiopian  epochs 
have  given  us  the  name  of  no  sovereign  that  corresponds  exactly 
with  the  Greek  name. 

Krall  was  the  first  to  connect  Sethon  with  Satni,  son  of  Ramses  II, 
who  is  the  hero  of  the  two  preceding  stories  (Hin  neuer  historischer 
Roman,  in  the  Mitteilungen  aus  den  Sammlungen  der  Papyrus  des 
Erzherzogs  Rainer,  vol.  vi,  p.  1,  note  3),  but  he  only  suggested  it 
without  insisting  on  it,  and  his  opinion  found  little  acceptance 
among  Egyptologists.  It  was  taken  up  and  developed  at  full  length 
by  Griffith,  in  the  preface  of  his  edition  of  the  two  tales  (Stories 
of  the  High  Priests  of  Memphis,  pp.  1-12),  and  after  having  weighed 
the  question  carefully,  it  appears  to  me  difficult  not  to  admit,  at 
any  rate,  that  he  is  probably  right.  If  so,  Herodotus  has  preserved 
to  us  the  principal  theme  of  one  of  the  stories  relating  to  Satni- 
Khamois,  the  most  ancient  of  those  that  have  come  down  to  us. 
Satni  had  here  no  occasion  to  exercise  the  supernatural  powers  with 
which  later  tradition  endowed  him  in  superabundance.  It  is  his 
piety  that  assures  him  the  victory,  and  the  story  does  not  belong 
to  a  cycle  of  magic.  It  is  one  of  a  collection  of  tales  intended 
to  justify  the  opposition  felt  by  the  sacerdotal  class  against  the 
military  class  after  the  downfall  of  the  Eamessides,  and  to  show 
the  superiority  of  theocratic  government  over  other  governments. 
The  feudal  aristocracy  might  well  refuse  its  aid  to  a  priest-king  ; 


SATNI-ICHAMOIS  AND  THE  ASSYRIANS  171 

the  protection  of  the  god  would  be  suflScient  to  assure  victory  to 
a  chance  levy  of  devout  middle-class  people  or  artisans  over  a  profes- 
sional army,  and  it  was  that  alone  that  delivered  Egypt  from  invasion. 

After  Anysis  reigned  the  priest  of  Hephaestos  named 
Sethon.  This  monarch  despised  and  neglected  the  Egyptian 
warriors,  thinking  he  did  not  need  their  services.  Among 
other  indignities  which  he  ofifered  them,  he  took  away 
their  fiefs  composed  of  twelve  arures  of  land  that  previous 
kings  had  granted  to  each  of  them. 

Now,  after  a  time,  Sanacharibus,  king  of  the  Arabs  and 
of  the  Assyrians,  led  a  great  army  against  Egypt;  but 
when  the  Egyptian  men-at-arms  refused  to  march,  the 
priest,  rendered  powerless,  entered  the  temple  and  lamented 
himself  before  the  statue  at  the  thought  of  the  misfortunes 
that  menaced  him.  While  he  thus  lamented  he  was  over- 
taken by  sleep ;  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  god  appeared 
to  him,  exhorting  him  to  take  courage,  and  assuring 
him  that  nothing  untoward  should  happen  to  him  during 
his  campaign  against  the  Arab  army,  for  that  he  himself 
would  send  him  help.'^ 

Placing  his  confidence  in  this  dream,  he  assembled  such 
of  the  Egyptians  as  consented  to  follow  him,  and  he  went 
to  camp  at  Pelusium,  for  that  is  where  Egypt  is  entered. 
None  of  the  men-at-arms  followed  him,  but  only  merchants, 
artisans,  and  market  people.  When,  however,  the  foe  pre- 
sented themselves  to  besiege  the  tovm  the  field  mice  during  the 
night  flocked  to  their  camp,  and  gnawed  all  their  quivers,  their 
bows,  and  also  the  thongs  of  their  bucklers,  so  that  the  next 
day  they  had  to  fly  disarmed,  and  many  of  them  perished. 

And  now  the  stone  figure  of  this  king  is  standing  in 
the  temple  of  Hephaestos.  He  is  holding  a  mouse  in  his 
hand,  and  the  inscription  on  it  says,  "  Whosoever  looks  at 
me,  let  him  reverence  the  god." 

'  See  above,  pp.  146,  147  and  161,  162,  examples  o£  incubation  and  pro- 
phetic dreams. 


THE  CYCLE  OF  RAMSES  II 


THE   DAUGHTER   OF  THE   PRINCE   OF  BAKHTAN   AND   THE 
POSSESSING   SPIRIT 

The  monument  on  which  this  strange  narrative  is  preserved  is  a 
stela  discovered  by  ChampoUion  in  the  temple  of  Khonsu  at  Thebes, 
removed  in  1846  by  Prisse  d'Avenne  and  given  by  him  to  the 
Bibliothfeque  Nationals  of  Paris.    It  has  been  published  by  : 

Prisse  d'Avenne,  Choix  de  monuments  ^gyptiens,  folio,  Paris,  1847, 
pi.  xxiv  and  p.  5. 

ChampoUion,  Monuments  de  VEgypte  et  de  la  Nuhie,  4to,  Paris, 
1846-1874.     Text,  vol.  ii,  pp.  280-290. 

ChampoUion  studied  this  inscription  and  several  sentences  of  it 
are  quoted  in  his  works.  It  was  translated  and  reproduced  elabor- 
ately on  a  separate  sheet  of  paper,  composed  at  the  Imperial  Printing 
Press  for  the  Universal  Exhibition  of  1855,  under  the  superintend- 
ence of  Emmanuel  de  Koug6.  Two  translations  appeared  almost 
simultaneously : 

Birch,  Notes  upon  an  Egyptian  Inscription  in  the  Bibliotheque 
Imperiale  of  Paris  (from  The  Transactions  of  the  Royal  Society 
of  Literature,  New  Series,  vol.  iv),  London,  8vo,  46  pp. 

E.  de  Rouge,  htude  sur  une  stele  egyptienne  appartenant  a  la 
Bibliotheque  Imperiale  (extrait  du  Journal  Asiatique,  cahiers  d'Aoftt 
1856,  Aodt  1857,  Juin  et  AoAt-Septembre  1858),  Paris,  8vo,  222  pp., 
and  the  plate  composed  for  the  Exhibition  of  1855. 

Later  work  at  first  did  not  add  much  to  the  results  obtained  by 
E.  de  Rouge.    They  were  accepted  entirely  by : 

H.  Brugsch,  Histoire  d'Egypte,  4to,  Leipzig,  1859,  pp.  206-210. 

H.  Brugsch,  Oeschichte  jEgyptens,  8vo,  Leipzig,  Hinrichs,  1877, 
pp.  627-641. 

The  narrative  has  throughout  the  appearance  of  an  official  docu- 
ment. It  begins  with  a  royal  protocol  of  the  name  of  a  sovereign 
who  has  the  same  name  and  prenomen  as  Ramses  II— Sesostris. 

172 


THE   PRINCESS  AND  THE   POSSESSING  SPIRIT    173 

Dates  then  follow,  arranged  at  intervals  throughout  the  text ;  the 
details  of  the  Pharaonic  cult  and  ceremonial  are  set  forth  with 
scrupulous  care,  and  the  whole  presents  such  a  character  of  reality 
that  for  a  long  time  the  inscription  was  regarded  as  being  an 
historic  document.  The  Ramses  named  in  it  was  placed  in  the 
XXth  dynasty,  the  twelfth  in  order,  and  the  map  was  diligently 
searched  to  find  the  country  of  Bakhtan  that  had  provided  Egypt 
with  a  queen.  Erman  recognised  with  much  insight  that  this  was 
an  actual  forgery,  perpetrated  by  the  priests  of  Khonsu,  with  the 
intention  of  enhancing  the  glory  of  the  god,  and  ensuring  the 
possession  of  certain  material  advantages  for  the  temple  (A.  Erman, 
Die  Bentreschstele,  in  the  Zeitschrift  fur  ^gyptische  Sprache,  1883, 
pp.  54-60). 

He  has  shown  that  the  forgers  intended  to  connect  this  story 
of  the  possession  by  a  spirit  with  Ramses  II,  and  he  has  rendered 
us  the  service  of  relieving  us  from  an  imaginary  Pharaoh.  He 
has  brought  the  date  of  the  redaction  down  to  about  the  Ptolemaic 
times ;  I  think  it  may  be  attributed  to  the  middle  period  of  the 
Ethiopian  invasions.  It  was  composed  at  the  time  when  the  office 
of  High  Priest  of  Amon  had  just  fallen  into  abeyance,  and  when 
the  priesthoods  that  remained  must  have  tried  by  every  means 
in  their  power  to  secure  the  immense  influence  that  had  been 
exercised  by  the  vanished  sacerdotal  power. 

Since  then  the  text  has  been  translated  into  English  by  Breasted, 
Ancient  Records  of  Egypt,  vol.  iii,  pp.  429-447  ;  into  German  by 
A.  Wiedemann,  Altdgyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  8vo,  Leipzig, 
1906,  pp.  86-93. 

The  narrative  contains  a  theme  frequently  found  in  popular 
literature ;  a  spirit  having  taken  up  its  abode  in  the  body  of  a 
princess,  contends  successfully  with  the  exorcists  charged  to  expel 
it,  and  will  only  leave  it  under  certain  conditions.  The  Egyptian 
redaction  furnishes  us  with  the  simplest  and  most  ancient  form 
of  the  story.  A  different  redaction  adapted  to  Christian  beliefs 
has  been  notified  by  O.  de  Lemm,  Die  Geschichte  von  der  Prinzessin 
Bentreseh  und  die  Geschichte  von  Kaiser  Zenw  UTid  seinen  zwei 
Tochtern,  in  Melanges  Asiatigites  tires  du  Bulletin  de  VAcademie 
des  Scien/:es  de  Saint-Petershourg,  vol.  ii,  pp.  599-603,  and  in  the 
Bulletin,  vol.  xxxii,  pp.  473-476. 

A  modern  Egyptologist  has  borrowed  the  idea  of  our  text  to 
make  it  the  subject  of  a  story :  H.  Brugsch-Bey,  Des  Priesters 
Rache,  eine  historisch  beglauhigte  Erzdhlung  aus  <der  dgyptitchen 
Geschichte  des  zwolften  Jahrhunderts  vor  Ghr.,  in  the  Deutsche 
Revue,  vol.  v,  pp.  15-41. 

Erman  has  observed  an  attempt  at  archaism,  and  somewhat  serious 
mistakes  of  grammar  in  this  document.  One  understands  that  the 
priests  of  Khonsu  would  attempt  to  imitate  the  language  of  the 
period  to  which  they  attributed  the  stela,  and  one  understands  also  that 


174  STORIES   OF   ANCIEISTT   EGYPT 

they  would  not  be  able  to  maintain  the  ancient  style  with  equal 
success  throughout,  and  that  at  times  they  mistook  what  was 
incorrect  for  archaism.  Their  propositions  are  awkwardly  con- 
structed, the  expression  of  their  ideas  is  halting,  their  phraseology 
is  curt  and  monotonous.  Also  they  have  credited  a  king  of  the 
XlXth  dynasty  with  methods  of  government  that  essentially  be- 
longed to  the  sovereigns  of  the  XXth.  Ramses  II,  pious  as  he 
was,  did  not  consider  himself  obliged  to  submit  all  affairs  of  state 
to  the  approval  of  the  gods.  It  was  the  latest  successors  of 
Ramses  III  who  introduced  the  custom  of  consulting  the  statue 
of  Amon  under  all  circumstances.  With  these  exceptions  it  may 
be  said  that  the  interpretation  of  this  text  presents  no  other  diffi- 
culties, and  that  with  a  little  care  we  can  translate  it  with 
considerable  ease  ;  like  the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brothers,  it  may  advan- 
tageously be  placed  in  the  hands  of  beginners  in  Egj"ptology. 

The  stela  is  surmounted  by  a  representation  in  which  one  of 
the  scenes  in  the  story  is  placed  before  our  eyes.  On  the  left  the 
bark  of  Khonsu,  the  good  counsellor,  arrives  carried  on  the  shoulders 
of  eight  personages,  and  followed  by  two  priests  who  are  reading 
some  prayers  ;  the  king  standing  before  it  is  offering  incense.  On 
the  right,  the  bark  of  Khonsu,  who  regulates  the  destinies  in 
Thebes,  is  figured  supported  by  four  men  only,  as  it  is  smaller  than 
the  other  ;  the  priest  who  is  offering  incense  to  it  is  KhonsuhSnu- 
tirnabit,  the  prophet  of  Khonsu,  who  rules  destinies  in  Thebes. 
It  is  probably  the  return  of  the  second  god  to  Thebes  that  is 
illustrated  in  this  manner ;  Khonsu  the  first  comes  to  receive 
Khonsu  the  second,  and  the  priest  and  king  render  simUar  homage, 
each  to  his  divinity. 


HoRUS,  mighty  bull,  crowned  with  diadems,  and  established 
as  firmly  in  his  royalties  as  the  god  Atumu ;  Horus  triumph- 
ant over  Nubfti,  mighty  with  the  sword,  destroyer  of  the  bar- 
barians, the  king  of  both  Egypts,  Uasimariya-Satapanriya, 
son  of  the  Sun,  Riyamasasu  Maiamanu,  beloved  of  Amonra 
lord  of  Kamak  and  of  the  cycle  of  the  gods  lords  of  Thebes  ; 
the  good  god,  son  of  Amon,  bom  of  Maut,  begotten  by  Har- 
makhis,  the  glorious  child  of  the  universal  Lord,  begotten 
by  the  god,  husband  of  his  own  mother,  king  of  Egypt, 
prince  of  the  desert  tribes,  sovereign  who  rules  the  bar- 
barians, when  scarcely  issued  from  his  mother's  womb  he 
directed  wars,  and  he  commanded  valour  while  still  in  the 
egg  like  a  bull  who  thrusts  before — for  this  king  is  a  bull. 


THE   PRINCESS  AND  THE   POSSESSING   SPIRIT     175 

a  god  who  comes  out  on  the  day  of  fighting,  like  Montu,  and 
who  is  very  valiant  like  the  son  of  Nuit.^ 

Now,  when  His  Majesty  was  in  Naharaina,'  according  to  his 
rule  of  every  year,  the  princes  of  every  land  came,  bending 
beneath  the  weight  of  offerings  that  they  brought  to  the 
souls  of  His  Majesty,^  and  the  fortresses  brought  their  tribute, 
gold,  silver,  lapis  lazuli,  malachite,*  and  all  the  scented  woods 
of  Arabia  on  their  back,  and  marching  in  file  one  behind 
the  other ;  behold  the  prince  of  Bakhtan  caused  his  tribute 
to  be  brought,  and  put  his  eldest  daughter  at  the  head  of 
the  train,  to  salute  His  Majesty,  and  to  ask  life  of  him. 
Because  she  was  a  very  beautiful  woman,  pleasing  to  His 
Majesty  more  than  anything,  behold,  he  gave  her  the  title 
of  Great  Eoyal  Spouse,  Nafruriya,  and  when  he  returned  to 
Egypt,  she  accomplished  all  the  rites  of  a  royal  spouse/ 

And  it  happened  in  the  year  XV,  the  22nd  of  the  month 
Payni,  that  His  Majesty  was  at  Thebes  the  mighty,  the 
queen  of  cities,  engaged  in  doing  that  whereby  he  praised 
his  father  Amonra,  lord  of  Karnak,  at  his  fine  festival  of 
southern  Thebes,*  his  favourite  dwelling,  where  the  god  has 
been  since  the  creation ;  behold,  one  came  to  say  to  His 
Majesty,  "  There  is  a  messenger  from  the  prince  of  Bakhtan, 
who  comes  with  many  gifts  for  the  Eoyal  Spouse."     Brought 

'  The  son  of  Nutt  is  the  god  Set-Typhon. 

^  This  is  a  different  spelling  of  the  name  written  Naharinna  in  the 
Tale  of  the  Doomed  Prince,  p.  187,  note  2.  Naharinna  is  the  country  placed 
astride  on  the  Euphrates  between  the  Orontes  and  the  Balikh. 

'  As  has  been  remarked  already,  p.  105,  note  1,  Pharaoh,  son  of  the  Sun, 
and  the  Sun  himself,  had  several  souls,  hau.  Conquered  nations  hoped  to 
gain  their  favour  by  their  gifts. 

'  On  the  stone  called  mafkatt  by  the  Egyptians,  see  p.  138,  note  1. 

*  The  daughter  of  Khattusll  II,  prince  of  Khali,  on  her  arrival  in  Egypt, 
also  received  the  title  of  Great  Royal  Spouse  and  an  Egyptian  name, 
Maflrnafruriya,  of  which  that  of  our  princess  is  probably  only  a  familiar 
abbreviation. 

°  Southern  Thebes  is  the  modern  Luxor;  it  was  therefore  the  patronal 
festival  of  the  temple  of  Luxor  that  the  king  was  celebrating  when  the 
arrival  of  the  Syrian  messenger  was  announced  to  him,  and  during  which 
the  statue  of  Amon  and  its  bark  were  transported  from  Luxor  to  Karnak, 
and  then  taken  back  to  Luxor,  three  weeks  later. 


176  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

before  His  Majesty  with  his  gifts,  he  said,  while  saluting 
His  Majesty,  "Glory  to  thee,  Sun  of  foreign  nations,  thou 
by  whom  we  live,"  and  when  he  had  said  his  adoration 
before  His  Majesty,  he  began  again  to  speak  to  His 
Majesty.  "I  come  to  thee,  Sire  my  lord,  on  account  of 
Bintrashit,^  the  youngest  sister  of  the  royal  spouse, 
Nafruriya,  for  a  malady  pervades  her  limbs.  Let  Thy 
Majesty  send  a  sage  to  see  her."  Then  the  king  said, 
"  Bring  me  the  scribes  of  the  Double  House  of  Life  who  are 
attached  to  the  palace."  ^  As  soon  as  they  had  come.  His 
Majesty  said,  "  Behold,  I  have  sent  for  you  that  you  may 
hear  this  saying :  Send  me  from  among  you  one  who 
is  skilled  in  his  heart,  a  scribe  learned  with  his  fingers." 
When  the  royal  scribe,  Thotemhabi,  had  come  into  the 
presence  of  His  Majesty,  His  Majesty  commanded  him  to 
repair  to  Bakhtan  with  the  messenger.  As  soon  as  the 
sage  had  arrived  at  Bakhtan,  he  found  Bintrashit  in  the 
state  of  one  possessed,  and  he  found  the  ghost  that  pos- 
sessed her  an  enemy  hard  to  fight.'  The  prince  of  Bakhtan 
therefore  sent  a  second  message  to  His  Majesty,  saying, 
"  Sire  my  lord,  let  Thy  Majesty  command  a  god  to  be  brought 
to  fight  the  spirit." 

When  the  messenger  arrived  in  the  presence  of  His 
Majesty,  in  year  xxiii,  the  1st  of  Pakhons,  the  day  of  the 
feast  of  Amon,  while  His  Majesty  was  at  Thebes,  behold. 
His  Majesty  spake  again,  in  the  presence  of  Khonsu  in 
Thebes,  god  of  good  counsel,*  saying,  "  Excellent  lord,  I  am 

'  The  name  of  this  princess  seems  to  be  compounded  of  the  Semitic 
word  iint,  girl,  daughter,  and  the  Egyptian  word  rashit,  joy.  It  signifies 
daughter  of  joy. 

^  See  p.  122,  note  1,  what  is  said  of  the  Scribes  of  tlie  Double  House  of 
lAfe. 

^  B.  de  Eoug6  and  most  scholars  who  have  studied  this  'stela  have 
thought  that  a  demon  was  referred  to.  Krall  has  shown  that  the 
possessing  spirit  was  the  ghost  of  a  dead  person  {Tacitus  und  der 
Orient,  i,  pp.  41-42). 

'  In  order  to  understand  this  passage,  it  must  be  remembered  that 
according  to   Egyptian  beliefs,  each  divine  statue  contained  a,  double 


THE   PRESrCESS  AND  THE  POSSESSING  SPIRIT     177 

again  before  thee  on  account  of  the  daughter  of  the  prince 
of  Bakhtan."  Then  Khonsu  in  Thebes,  god  of  good  counsel, 
was  transported  to  Khonsu  who  rules  destinies,  the  great 
god  who  drives  away  foreigners,  and  His  Majesty  said, 
facing  Khonsu  in  Thebes,  god  of  good  counsel,  "  Excellent 
lord,  may  it  please  thee  to  turn  thy  face  to  Khonsu  who 
rules  destinies,  great  god  who  drives  away  foreigners;  he 
will  be  taken  to  Bakhtan."  And  the  god  nodded  with 
his  head  greatly  twice.'  Then  His  Majesty  said,  "  Give  him 
thy  virtue,  that  I  may  cause  the  majesty  of  this  god  to  go  to 
Bakhtan  to  deliver  the  daughter  of  the  prince  of  Bakhtan." 
And  Khonsu  in  Thebes,  god  of  good  counsel,  nodded  with 
his  head  greatly,  twice,  and  he  made  the  transmission  of 


detached  from  the  actual  person  of  the  god  that  it  represented,  and  that 
the  statue  was  a  real  incarnation  of  the  god,  differing  from  other  incar- 
nations of  the  same  kind.  Now  Khonsu  possessed,  in  his  temple  atiKarnak, 
at  least  two  statues,  each  of  which  was  animated  by  an  independent  double 
whom  the  rites  of  consecration  had  made  into  a  god.  One  of  these  repre- 
sented Khonsu,  unchangeable  in  his  perfection,  calm  in  his  grandeur,  and 
not  mingling  directly  in  the  affairs  of  mankind ;  that  was  Khonsu 
Nafhotpu,  whose  translated  name  I  have  paraphrased  god  of  good  counsel. 
The  other  statue  represented  a  more  active  Khonsu,  who  ruled  the  affairs 
of  men,  and  drove  foreigners,  i.e.  enemies,  far  from  Egypt,  Khonsu  pa  iri 
soJehru  m  uastt,  nutir  du,  saharu  shemaH.  The  first  Khonsu  regarded  as 
the  most  powerful,  we  know  not  for  what  reason,  does  not  condescend  to 
go  to  Bakhtan  himself ;  he  sends  the  second  Khonsu,  after  having  trans- 
mitted his  powers  to  him  (E.  de  Eougfi,  ^tude  tur  une  Stele,  pp.  15-19). 
We  shall  meet  later,  in  the  Voyage  of  Vnamunu  (pp.  207,  216),  an  Amon 
of  the  Mood  who  emanates  from  Amon  of  Karnak  in  the  same  way  that 
the  second  Khonsu  here  proceeds  from  the  first,  and  who  accompanies 
the  hero  on  his  expedition  to  Syria. 

'  The  statues  animated  by  a  doutle  expressed  their  wishes  sometimes 
with  the  voice,  sometimes  by  cadenced  movements.  We  know  that  Queen 
Hatshopsuttu  heard  the  god  Amon  command  her  to  send  a  fleet  to  the  Ports 
of  Incense  to  bring  back  the  perfumes  required  for  the  cult.  The  kings  of 
the  XXth  and  XXIst  dynasties,  less  fortunate,  usually  obtained  only  move- 
ments, always  of  the  same  kind ;  when  they  asked  a  question  of  a  god, 
the  statue  remained  motionless  if  the  reply  was  in  the  negative,  but 
it  nodded  its  head  twice  vigorously  if  favourable,  as  was  the  case  here. 
These  consultations  were  carried  on  according  to  a  strictly  regulated 
ceremonial,  of  which  contemporary  texts  have  preserved  the  principal 
details  (Maspero,  Notes  sur  diffirents  points,  in  Recueil  de  Travaux,  vol.  i. 
pp.  158-159). 


178  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

magic  virtue  to  Khonsu  who  rules  destinies  in  Thebes,  four 
times.'  His  Majesty  commanded  that  Khonsu  who  rules 
destinies  in  Thebes  should  be  sent  on  a  great  bark  escorted 
by  five  smaller  boats,  by  chariots,  and  many  horses  marching 
on  the  right  and  on  the  left.  When  this  god  arrived  at 
Bakhtan,  in  the  space  of  a  year  and  five  months,  behold  the 
prince  of  Bakhtan  came  with  his  soldiers  and  his  generals 
before  Khonsu  who  rules  destinies,  and  threw  himself 
on  his  belly,  saying,  "  Thou  comest  to  us,  thou  dost  join 
with  us,  according  to  the  orders  of  the  king  of  the  two 
Egjrpts,  Uasimariya-Satapanriya."  Behold  as  soon  as  the 
god  had  gone  to  the  place  where  Bintrashit  was,  and  had 
made  the  magic  passes  for  the  daughter  of  the  prince  of 
Bakhtan,  she  became  well  immediately,  and  the  spirit  who 
was  with  her  said  in  presence  of  Khonsu  who  rules  destinies 
in  Thebes,  "  Come  in  peace,  great  god  who  drives  away 
foreigners,  Bakhtan  is  thy  town,  its  people  are  thy  slaves, 
and  I  myself,  I  am  thy  slave.  I  will  go,  therefore,  to  the 
place  from  whence  I  came,  in  order  to  give  satisfaction  to 
thy  heart  on  account  of  the  matter  which  brings  thee,  but 
let  Thy  Majesty  command   that   a  feast  day  be  celebrated 

'  The  innate  virtue  or  power  of  the  gods,  the  sa,  seems  to  have  been 
regarded  by  the  Egyptians  as  a  sort  of  fluid,  similar  to  that  which  we  call 
by  different  names — magnetic  fluid,  aura,  etc.  It  was  transmitted  by 
imposition  of  hands  and  by  actual  passes,  performed  on  the  neck  or 
spine  of  the  recipient.  This  was  called  Satapu-sa,  and  may  be  translated 
more  or  less  closely  as  practising  passes.  The  ceremony  by  which  the  first 
Khonsu  transmitted  his  virtue  to  the  second  is  rather  frequently  repre- 
sented on  the  monuments,  in  scenes  where  the  statue  of  a  god  is  represented 
making  passes  on  a  king.  The  statue,  usually  a  wooden  one,  had  movable 
limbs ;  it  embraced  the  king,  and  passed  its  hand  over  his  neck  while  he 
knelt  before  it  with  his  back  turned  to  it.  Each  statue  had  at  its  consecra- 
tion acquired  not  only  a  double,  but  also  some  part  of  the  magic  virtue  of 
the  god  it  represented ;  the  sa  of  his  life  was  behind  it,  animating  and 
permeating  it,  in  proportion  as  the  statue  made  use  of  some  part  of  what 
it  possessed  for  transmission.  The  god  himself,  whom  this  perpetual 
outflow  of  sa  might  have  ejchausted,  could  supply  himself  from  a 
mysterious  reservoir  of  sa  contained  in  the  other  world ;  it  is  not  stated 
by  what  means  this  lake  of  sa  was  itself  supplied  (Maspero,  Melanges  de 
Mythologie  et  d' Archeologie  Egyptiennes,  vol.  i,  p.  308). 


THE   PRINCESS   ANT>   THE   POSSESSING  SPIRIT     179 

for  me  and  for  the  prince  of  Bakhtan."  The  god  made  an 
approving  nod  of  the  head  to  his  prophet,  to  say,  "  Let  the 
prince  of  Bakhtan  make  a  great  offering  before  this  ghost." 
Now,  while  this  was  happening  between  Khonsu,  who  rules 
destinies  in  Thebes,  and  the  spirit,  the  prince  of  Bakhtan 
was  there  with  his  army  stricken  with  terror.  And  when 
they  had  made  a  great  offering  before  Khonsu  who  rules 
destinies  in  Thebes,  and  before  the  ghost,  from  the  prince 
of  Bakhtan,  while  celebrating  a  feast  day  in  their  honour, 
the  spirit  departed  in  peace  whithersoever  it  pleased  him, 
according  to  the  command  of  Khonsu  who  rules  destinies 
in  Thebes. 

The  prince  of  Bakhtan  rejoiced  greatly,  as  well  as  all  the 
people  of  Bakhtan,  and  he  communed  with  his  heart,  saying, 
"  Since  this  god  has  been  given  to  Bakhtan,  I  will  not  send 
him  back  to  Egypt."  Now  after  this  god  had  remained 
three  years  and  nine  months  at  Bakhtan,  when  the  prince  of 
Bakhtan  was  laid  down  on  his  bed,  he  saw  in  a  dream  this 
god  issuing  from  his  shrine  in  the  form  of  a  sparrow-hawk 
of  gold  which  flew  towards  Egypt ;  when  he  awoke  he  was 
shivering  greatly.  He  then  said  to  the  prophet  of  Khonsu 
who  rules  destinies  in  Thebes,  "  This  god  who  has  dwelt  with 
us,  he  wills  to  return  to  Egypt ;  let  his  chariot  go  to  Egypt." 
The  prince  of  Bakhtan  granted  that  this  god  should  depart 
for  Egypt,  and  he  gave  him  numerous  presents  of  all  good 
things,  and  also  a  strong  escort  of  soldiers  and  horses. 
When  they  had  arrived  at  Thebes,  Khonsu  who  rules 
destinies  in  Thebes  repaired  to  the  temple  of  Khonsu  in 
Thebes,  the  good  counsellor;  he  placed  the  gifts  that  the 
prince  of  Bakhtan  had  given  him  of  all  good  things  in  the 
presence  of  Khonsu  in  Thebes,  the  good  counsellor,  he  kept 
nothing  for  himself.  Now,  Khonsu  the  good  counsellor  in 
Thebes  returned  to  his  temple  in  peace,  in  the  year  xxxiii, 
the  19th  Mechir,  of  the  King  Uasimariya-Satapanriya,  living 
for  ever,  like  the  Sun. 


180  .  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

II 

THE   EXPLOITS   OF   SES6STRIS 
(Persian  Period) 

As  has  been  said  in  the  general  Introduction  to  these  tales  (pp.  xl, 
xli),  Ramses  II  was  divided  by  tradition  and  gave  birth  to  two 
diflferent  personages,  one  named  Ses8stris,  after  his  popular  name, 
Sesusriya,  which  is  found  on  several  of  the  monuments,  while  the 
other  was  called  Osimanduas,  or  Osimandyas,  from  the  prenomen 
UasimarJya.  The  form  Ses6stris  and  the  legend  attached  to  it  is  of 
Memphite  origin,  as  I  have  had  occasion  to  show  elsewhere  (ia  Geste 
de  Sesostris,  in  the  Journal  des  Savants,  1901,  pp.  599-600,  603).  It 
arose,  or  at  least  it  was  localised  round  a  group  of  six  statues  stand- 
ing in  front  of  the  temple  of  Ptah  at  Memphis,  which  the  sacristans 
called  on  Herodotus  to  admire,  assuring  him  that  they  represented 
the  Egyptian  conqueror,  his  wife,  and  four  sons  (II,  ex).  When 
inserting  it  in  his  history,  he  merely  transcribed  it  without  any 
suspicion  of  its  being  a  popular  romance,  and  that  the  themes  which 
were  of  apparent  authenticity  merely  served  to  introduce  a  certain 
number  of  purely  imaginary  episodes.  In  fact,  if  we  try  to  discover 
the  proportion  of  the  different  parts  in  the  Exploits  when  the  com- 
mentaries added  by  Herodotus  are  eliminated,  we  find  that  the  most 
developed  are  those  which  speak  of  the  treatment  of  conquered 
nations,  and  of  the  way  in  which  the  hero,  on  his  return  to  Egypt, 
escaped  death  near  Pelusium  ;  the  first  occupies  more  than  half  of 
chapter  cii,  and  the  latter  the  whole  of  chapter  cvii.  The  way 
in  which  the  return  home  is  set  forth,  as  well  as  the  accompanying 
circumstances,  almost  leads  us  to  believe  that  this  is  the  principal 
theme.  Without  insisting  too  much  on  this  point,  I  would  say  that 
the  proportions  of  the  various  parts  in  the  original  Egyptian  must 
have  been  the  same  in  the  main  as  in  the  Greek  summary  ;  Herodotus 
did  not  repeat  all  the  details  he  had  heard,  but  the  abridged  version 
he  wrote  of  the  whole  gives  us  a  sufficient  insight  into  the  action  and 
general  lines.  The  first  idea  seems  to  have  been  to  account  for  the 
origin  of  the  canals,  and  of  the  legislation  with  regard  to  landed 
property  in  force  in  the  country  ;  and  the  people,  incapable  of  follow- 
ing the  long  evolution  that  had  led  matters  up  to  the  point  at  which 
they  then  were,  had  recourse  to  the  simplifying  conception  of  a  sove- 
reign who,  by  himself,  and  in  a  few  years,  had  accomplished  the  work 
of  many  centuries.  As  war  alone  could  provide  him  with  the  neces- 
sary workmen,  he  was  sent  to  conquer  the  world,  and  themes  that 
already  existed  were  added  to  the  medley,  such  as  the  description  of 
commemorative  stelae,  and  the  treacherous  fire  at  Daphnse.  The 
theme  of  the  perilous  banquet  was  an  idea  familiar  to  Egyptian 


THE  EXPLOITS   OF   SESOSTRIS  181 

imagination,  and  up  to  the  present  we  know  of  two  other  examples 
— that  in  which  Set-Typhon  imurdered  his  brother  Osiris,  when 
like  Ses6stris  he  had  returned  from  his  conquests,  and  that  given 
by  Nitocris  to  the  murderers  of  her  brother  (Herodottts  II,  c). 
Here,  then,  are  the  elements  of  many  tales  that  the  imagination 
of  the  dragomans  united  in  one  story  for  the  benefit  of  visitors 
to  the  temple  of  Ptah. 

The  King  Sesostris,  in  the  first  place,  sailed  out  of  the 
Arabian  Gulf  with  lofty  vessels,  and  reduced  the  people  who 
dwelt  on  the  shore  of  the  Erythraean  Sea,  until,  as  he  pushed 
on,  he  arrived  at  a  point  where  the  shallows  rendered  the  sea 
impracticable.  After  that  he  returned  to  Egypt,  and  taking 
with  him  a  numerous  army,  he  traversed  the  solid  land,  sub- 
duing all  the  nations  he  encountered.  Those  of  them  who 
proved  to  be  brave,  and  who  fought  determinedly  for  their 
freedom,  he  raised  stelae  for  them  in  their  lands,  on  which 
were  inscribed  their  name,  that  of  their  country,  and  how  he 
had  subdued  them  to  his  power;  those  on  the  contrary,  whose 
towns  he  had  taken  without  difficulty  or  fighting,  he  wrote 
on  their  stelae  the  same  information  as  for  the  people  who 
had  given  proof  of  courage,  but  he  added  in  addition  an 
emblem  of  femininity,  to  show  to  all  that  they  had  been 
cowardly.  In  this  way  he  traversed  the  solid  land  imtil, 
having  crossed  from  Asia  into  Europe,  he  subdued  both  the 
Scythians  and  the  Thracians.'  Then,  having  retraced  his 
steps,  he  came  back.^ 

Now,  this  Sesostris,  who  returned  to  his  country  and  who 
brought  with  him  many  men  of  the  nations  he  had  subdued, 
when  he  was  returning  to  Daphnae,  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Pelusium,  his  brother,  to  whom  he  had  committed  the 
government  of  Egypt,  invited  him  to  a  feast,  and  his  children 
with  him,  surrounded  the  house  outside  with  wood,  and  then 
after  having  surrounded  it,  set  fire  to  it.  As  soon  as  he 
knew  of  it,  he  conferred  hurriedly  with  his  wife — for  he  had 
brought  his  wife  with  him — and  she  advised  him,  of  the  six 
'  Serodotus  II,  cii-ciii.  '  Ibid.,  ciii. 

17 


182  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

sons  they  had,  to  lay  two  of  them  across  the  furnace,  and  to 
cross  it  on  their  bodies,  and  thus  to  escape.  Sesostris  did 
this,  and  two  of  his  children  were  burnt  in  this  way,  but 
the  others  were  saved  with  their  father.  Sesostris  having 
entered  Egypt  and  revenged  himself  on  his  brother,  employed 
the  crowd  of  prisoners  he  had  brought  from  the  countries  he 
had  subdued  for  the  following  tasks :  they  dragged  the  blocks 
of  enormous  size  that  the  king  transported  for  the  temple  of 
Hephaestus,  they  dug  out  perforce  all  the  canals  that  are 
now  in  Egypt.  By  these  means  and  against  their  will  they 
rendered  the  whole  of  Egypt,  that  previously  had  been 
practicable  for  horses  and  chariots,  impracticable,  so  that 
since  that  time  Egypt  has  had  neither  horses  nor  chariots. 
He  divided  the  land  between  all  the  Egyptians,  giving  to 
each  one  by  lot  a  quadrangular  piece  of  equal  extent,  and  it 
was  according  to  this  that  he  established  the  assessment  of 
the  tax,  commanding  the  tax  to  be  paid  annually.  And  if 
the  river  carried  off  a  part  of  his  lot  from  any  one,  that  man, 
coming  before  the  king,  gave  notice  of  the  accident ;  he 
then  sent  officials  charged  to  examine  and  measure  the  loss 
which  the  property  had  sustained,  so  that  the  taxpayer 
should  not  pay  more  on  what  was  left  him,  than  the  due 
proportion  of  the  original  tax.' 

This  king  was  the  only  one  of  the  kings  of  Egypt  who 
reigned  over  Ethiopia.^ 

Diodorus  of  Sicily  (I,  liii-Iviii)  has  given  a  version  of  the  story 
recorded  by  Herodotus,  but  augmented  and  rendered  less  childish  by 
the  successive  historians  who  repeated  the  fable  of  Ses6stris.  Thus, 
in  the  episode  of  the  banquet  at  Pelusium,  he  suppresses,  probably 
as  too  barbarous,  the  sacrifice  of  two  of  the  sons,  made  by  the  con- 
queror to  save  himself  and  the  rest  of  his  family  ;  the  king  "  then 
raising  his  hands  implored  the  gods  for  the  safety  of  his  children  and 
his  wife,  and  crossed  the  flames  "  (I,  Ivii).  Diodorus,  or  rather  the 
Alexandrian  writer  whom  he  copied,  has  substituted  for  the  form 
Sesusriya-Ses&stris  of  the  dragomans  of  Herodotus,  the  abbreviated 
form  Sesusi-Sesoosis. 

'  Herodotus  II,  cvii-cix.  ''  Ibid,,  ex. 


THE   EXPLOITS   OF   OSIMANDYAS  183 

III 

THE    EXPLOITS   OF   OSIMANDYAS 

(Ptolemaic  Period) 

The  Theban  versions  of  the  legend  of  Eamses  II  were  attached  to 
the  funerary  temple  that  this  prince  had  built  on  the  left  bank  at 
the  Eamesseum,  and  as  one  of  the  names  of  this  temple  was  ta 
hait  Uasimartya  Maiamanic,  "the  castle  of  Uasimartya  Malamanu," 
and,  as  an  abbreviation,  "  the  castle  of  Uasimariya,"  the  prenomen 
Uasimariya  caused  his  proper  name  Eamses  to  be  forgotten ; 
transcribed  Osimanduas  in  Greek,  as  I  have  said  in  the  Introducticm 
(p.  xxxiii,  note  1),  it  passed  into  the  writings  of  Hecataeus  of  Abdera 
and  Artemidorus,  and  thence  into  Diodorus  as  the  name  of  a  king 
other  than  Ses6stris-Seso6sis.  That  which  now  remains  of  his  Exploits 
is  merely  the  description  of  the  Ramesseum  and  of  the  sculpture 
which  decorated  the  different  parts.  Nevertheless,  one  recognises 
that,  like  the  Exploits  of  Sesdstris,  it  included  an  important  account 
of  battles  in  Asia  against  the  Bactrians.  Osimanduas  besieged  a 
fortress  surrounded  by  a  river,  and  he  exposed  himself  to  the  blows 
of  the  enemy,  accompanied  by  a  lion,  who  afforded  him  powerful 
assistance  in  the  fight.  The  dragomans  of  the  Ptolemaic  age  did 
not  agree  on  this  last  point :  some  said  that  the  animal  figured 
on  the  walls  was  an  actual  liori  tamed  and  fed  by  the  hands  of  the 
king,  who  by  his  strength  put  the  enemy  to  flight ;  the  others,  taking 
it  in  a  metaphorical  sense,  asserted  that  the  iking,  being  exceed- 
ingly valiant  and  powerful,  wished  to  indicate  these  qualities  by  the 
figure  of  a  lion.  Only  half  of  the  building  now  exists  of  which 
the  Greeks  and  Romans  admired  the  arrangement,  and  in  conse- 
quence a  certain  number  of  those  sculptures  have  disappeared,  the 
subject  of  which  was  summarily  indicated  by  Diodorus  of  Sicily ; 
but  we  know  that  Eamses  III  almost  servilely  copied  the  plans  of 
his  great  ancestor,  and,  as  his  temple  at  Medinet-Habu  suffered  less, 
we  have  in  it  what  we  may  call  a  second  edition  of  scenes  copied 
from  the  Ramesseum.  Here  we  find  the  procession  of  prisoners, 
the  trophies  of  phalli  and  of  hands  which  testified  to  the  prowess  of 
the  Egyptian  soldiers,  the  sacrifice  of  the  ox,  and  the  procession 
of  the  god  Minu,  which  the  dragomans  interpreted  as  the  triumphal 
return  of  Pharaoh.  The  famous  library,  A  Pharmacy  of  the  Sovl, 
was  without  doubt  the  workshop  from  which,  under  the  XlXth  and 
XXth  Dynasties,  a  quantity  of  books  issued,  the  classics  of  the 
Theban  age.  The  halls  and  accessory  chapels  are  probably  identical 
with  one  or  other  of  those  of  which  the  ruins  have  been  brought  to 
light  by  the  recent  excavation  of  the  town  and  magazines. 

It  would  be  rash  to  attempt  to  re-establish  the    Exploits   oj 


184  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Osimandyas  in  its  primitive  form  with  the  help  of  the  extracts 
that  Diodoras  has  given  us  at  third  or  fourth  hand.  One  can 
only  guess  that  it  was  very  probably  similar  in  its  development  to 
that  of  Sesoosis-Sesostris.  Doubtless  it  began  with  an  account  of 
the  victories  of  the  king,  which  furnished  him  with  the  necessary 
resources  to  construct  what  the  Greeks  believed  to  be  his  tomb,  but 
which  is  in  reality  the  chapel  of  the  tomb  that  was  cut  out  in 
the  funerary  valley.  The  description  of  the  marvels  that  this 
building  contained  occupied  the  second  half,  and  we  may  judge  of 
its  tone  by  the  version,  still  current,  of  the  inscription  graved  on  the 
base  of  the  colossus  of  rose  granite  :  "  I  am  Osimanduas,  king 
of  kings,  and  he  who  would  know  who  I  am  and  where  I  repose,  let 
him  surpass  one  of  my  deeds." 

An  abbreviated  version  of  the  war  against  the  KhS.ti  should  be 
found,  treated  in  the  way  in  which  the  authors  of  the  High  Emprise 
for  the  Throne  and  the  Cuirass  arranged  the  quarrels  of  the 
Egyptian  barons  among  themselves  at  the  Assyrian  epoch.  It  is 
disappointing  that  the  Alexandrian  authors,  to  whom  we  are  in- 
debted for  our  knowledge  of  it,  have  not  transmitted  it  more  or  less 
complete,  as  Herodotus  did  for  The  Exploits  of  Sesostris. 


THE  DOOMED  PRINCE 

(XXth   DYNASTV) 

The    tale  of  The  Doomed  Prince  is  one  of  the  -works  contained 
in  the  Harris  Papyrus  No.  500,  of  the  British  Museum.     It  was 
discovered  and  translated  into  English  by  Goodwin,  in  the  Trans- 
actions of  the  Society  of  Biblical  Archaeology,  voL  iii,  pp.  349-356, 
and  in  Records  of  the  Past,  voL  ii,  pp.  153-160,  then  rapidly  analysed 
by  Chabas  from  Goodwin's  translation,  Sur  qtcelques  Contes  Sgyptiens, 
in  Comptes  rendus  de  VAcademie  des  Inscriptions  et  Belles-lettres, 
1875,  pp.  118-120.    The  Egyptian  text  has  been  published,  tran- 
scribed and  translated  intq_  French  by  Maspero  in  the  Journal 
Asiatique,  1877-8,  and  in  Etudes  igyptiervnes,  vol.  i,  pp.  1-47.     It 
has  been  collated  with  the  original  by  H.  O.  Lange,  Notes  sur  le 
texte  du  Conte  prddestind,  in  Hecueil  de  Travaux,  vol.  xxi,  pp.  23- 
24,  and  has  since  been  reproduced  in  hieratic  only  by  G.  Moller, 
Hieratische  Lesestiicke,  small  foUo,  Leipzig,  1910,  pp.  21-24.     Ebers 
rendered  it  in  German,  and  completed  it  with  his  usual  ability, 
Das  alte  ^gyptische  Mdrchen  vom  verwunschenen  Prinzen,  nach- 
erzdhlt  und  zu  Ende  gefuhrt,  in  the  number  of   October  1881  of 
Westermanns  Monatshefte,   pp.   96-103.      Since    then  it  has  been 
rendered  in   English  by  W.  M.  Flinders  Petrie,   Egyptian  Tales, 
1895,  London,    12mo,  vol.  ii,  pp.  13-35,  and  translated  by  F.   LI. 
Griffith,  in  Specimen  Pages  of  the    World's  Best  Literature,  1898, 
New  York,  4to,  pp.  6250-5253  ;  into  German  by  A.  Wiedemann, 
Altdgyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  small  8vo,  Leipzig,  1906,  pp.  78-85. 
It  is  said  that  the  manuscript  was  intact  when  it  was  found,  and 
that  it  was  injured  in  Egypt,  several  years  later,  by  the  explosion 
of   a   powder  magazine,   which  partially  destroyed  the  house   in 
Alexandria  in  which  it  was.    It  is  supposed  that  a  copy,  made 
by  Mr.  Harris  before  the  disaster,  contains  the  destroyed  portions 
of  the  original ;  but  at  present  no  one  knows  where  the  copy  is  to 
be  found.    In  its  present  state  the  Story  of  the  Doomed  Prince 
covers  four  and  a  half  pages.    The  last  line  of  the  first,  the  second, 
and  the  third  pages,  and  the  first  line  of  the  second,  the  third,  and 
the  fourth  pages,  have  disappeared.    The  whole  of  the  right-hand 
half  of  the  fourth  page,  from  line  8  to  line  14,  is  defaced  or  almost 

185 


186  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

entirely  destroyed.  The  fifth  page,  in  addition  to  several  tears  of 
small  importance,  has  lost  on  the  left  side  about  a  third  of  every 
line.  Nevertheless  the  style  is  so  simple,  and  the  sequence  of  ideas 
so  easy  to  follow,  that  it  is  possible  to  fill  in  the  gaps  and  restore 
actually  the  letter  of  the  text.  The  end  may  be  guessed,  thanks 
to  indications  afforded  by  stories  of  a  similar  nature  found  in  other 
countries. 

It  is  difficult  to  determine  accurately  the  period  to  which  this 
narrative  should  be  assigned.  The  scene  is  placed  alternately  in 
Egypt  and  Northern  Syria,  of  which  the  name  is  spelt  Naharinna, 
as  in  the  Anastasi  Papyrus  No.  IV,  pi.  xv,  1.  4.  One  cannot  therefore 
place  the  redaction  of  the  fragment  earlier  than  the  XVIIIth 
dynasty,  that  is  to  say,  than  the  seventeenth  century  B.C.,  and 
Moller  {Hieratische  Lesestiicke,  vol.  ii,  p.  21)  thinks  our  copy  was 
made  at  the  beginning  of  the  XlXth  dynasty.  In  my  opinion, 
however,  the  form  of  the  letters,  the  use  of  certain  ligatures,  the 
presence  of  certain  new  grammatical  forms,  recall  unquestionably 
the  Theban  papyri  contemporary  with  the  later  Hamessides.  I  am 
inclined  therefore  to  place,  if  not  the  first  redaction  of  the  story, 
at  least  the  version  we  possess  in  the  Harris  papyrus  and  the  writing 
of  the  manuscript,  at  the  end  or  the  middle  of  the  XXth  dynasty 
at  the  very  earliest. 

There  was  once  a  king '  to  whom  no  man  child  was  born. 
His  heart  was  very  sad  thereat ;  he  asked  for  a  boy  from  the 
gods  of  his  time,  and  they  decreed  that  one  should  be  born 
to  him.  He  lay  with  his  wife  during  the  night,  and  she 
conceived ;  when  the  months  of  the  birth  were  accomplished, 
lo,  a  man-child  was  born.  When  the  Hathors  ^  came  to  decree 
him  a  destiny,  they  said,  '  He  shall  die  by  the  crocodile,  or 
by  the  serpent,  or  indeed  by  the  dog.'  When  the  people 
who  were  vnth  the  child  heard  this,  they  went  to  tell  His 
Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  and  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  was  sad  at  heart 
thereat.  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  had  a  stone  house  built  for 
him  on  the  mountain,  furnished  with  men  and  all  good 
things  of  the  dwelling  of  the  king,  1.  h.  s.,  for  the  child  did 
not  go  out  of  it.     And  when  the  child  was  grown,  he  went 

■  The  author  does  not  state  explicitly  the  country  to  which  he  refers, 
but  to  designate  the  father  of  our  hero,  he  employs  the  word  nsut,  the 
official  title  of  the  kings  of  Egypt.  It  is  therefore  in  Egypt  that  all  the 
events  occur  that  are  recounted  at  the  beginning  of  the  story. 

^  For  the  HSthors  see  p.  12,  note  3,  and  Introduction,  pp.  Iv-lvi. 


THE   DOOMED   PRINCE  187 

up  on  to  the  terrace'  of  his  house,  and  he  perceived  a 
greyhound  who  ran  behind  a  man  walking  on  the  road. 
He  said  to  his  page  who  was  with  him :  "  What  is  it  that 
runs  behind  the  man  passing  along  the  road  ?  "  The  page 
said  to  him,  "  It  is  a  greyhound."  The  child  said  to  him, 
"Let  one  be  brought  to  me  exactly  like  it."  The  page 
went  to  repeat  this  to  His  Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  and  His 
Majesty,  1.  h.  s.,  said,  "  Let  a  young  running  dog  be  taken 
to  him,  for  fear  his  heart  should  be  saddened."  And  lo,  the 
greyhound  was  taken  to  him. 

And  after  the  days  had  passed  in  this  manner,  when  the 
child  had  acquired  age  in  all  his  limbs,  he  sent  a  message  to 
his  father,  saying,  "  Come !  why  be  like  the  sluggards  ? 
Although  I  am  doomed  to  three  grievous  destinies,  yet 
I  will  act  according  to  my  will.  God  will  not  do  less  than 
he  has  at  heart.''  One  listened  to  that  which  he  spake,  one 
gave  him  all  kinds  of  weapons,  and  also  his  greyhound  to 
follow  him,  and  transported  him  to  the  eastern  coast.^  One 
said  to  him,  "  Go  where  thou  desirest."  His  greyhound 
was  with  him ;  he  went  therefore  as  he  fancied  across  the 
country,  living  on  the  best  of  all  the  game  of  the  country. 
Having  arrived  to  fly '  to  the  prince  of  Naharinna,^  behold 

'  The  roof  of  Egyptian  houses  is  flat,  and  like  that  of  the  temples, 
formed  terraces  on  which  the  open  air  could  be  enjoyed.  Slight  kiosks 
were  built  on  them,  and  sometimes,  as  at  the  temple  of  Denderah,  actual 
ediculse  of  worked  stone,  which  served  as  chapels  and  observatories. 

'  The  eastern  coast  of  Syria  is  compared  with  Egypt.  We  find,  in  fact, 
that  the  prince  arrives  at  the  country  of  Naharinna.  Nalmrinna  is  known 
also  as  Naharahia  (p.  176,  note  2):  marriages  of  Egyptian  princes  with 
Syrian  princesses  are  numerous  in  real  history. 

'  The  word  pui,  employed  several  times  in  our  text  to  define  the  action 
of  princes,  really  means  to  fly,  to  fly  away,  and  it  is  solely  by  error  that 
it  has  been  translated  to  climb.  Is  it  possible  that  the  prince  of  Naharinna 
imposed  a  magic  test  on  the  suitors  1  I  am  disposed  to  believe  this, 
because  further  on  the  son  of  the  king  of  Egypt  conjured  his  limbs  before 
entering  into  the  competition.  In  the  first  Story  of  Satni-Khdmois,  we 
have  met  with  a  personage  who  came  out  of  the  ground,  literally,  who  flew 
■wpwards,  by  means  of  the  talismans  of  the  god  Ptah  (of.  p.  184). 

*  It  may  be  thought  strange  that  this  prince,  unknowing  of  the  history 
of  the  princess  of  Naharinna,  should  arrive  in  the  country  where  she  was 


188  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

there  was  no  son  bom  to  the  prince  of  Naharinna,  only  a 
daughter.  Now,  he  had  built  a  house  with  seventy  windows 
which  were  seventy  cubits  above  the  ground.  He  caused  all 
the  sons  of  the  princes  of  the  country  of  Kharu*  to  be 
brought,  and  he  said  to  them,  "  To  him  who  shall  reach  the 
window  of  my  daughter,  she  shall  be  given  him  for  wife." 

Now,  many  days  after  these  things  were  accomplished,  while 
the  princes  of  Syria  were  engaged  in  their  occupation  of  every 
day,  the  prince  of  Egypt,  having  come  to  pass  into  the  place 
where  they  were,  they  conducted  the  prince  to  their  house, 
they  brought  him  to  the  bath,  they  gave  provender  to  his 
horses,  they  did  all  manner  of  things  for  the  prince,  they  per- 
fumed him,  they  anointed  his  feet,  they  gave  him  of  their  loaves, 
they  said  to  him,  by  way  of  conversation,  "  Whence  comest 
thou,  goodly  youth?"  He  said  to  them,  •'!  am  the  son  of 
a  soldier  of  the  chariots  '  of  the  land  of  Egypt.  My  mother 
died,  my  father  took  another  wife.  When  children  arrived 
she  hated  me,  and  I  fled  before  her."  They  pressed  him  in 
their  arms,  they  covered  him  with  kisses.  Now,  after  many 
days  had  passed  in  this  way,  he  said  to  the  princes,  "  What 
are  you  doing  here  ?  "  They  said  to  him,  "  We  pass  our  time 
doing  this  :  we  fly,  and  he  who  shall  reach  the  window  of  the 
daughter  of  the  prince  of  Naharinna,  she  shall  be  given  him 
for  wife."     He  said  to  them,  "  If  it  please  you,  I  will  conjure 

with  the  intention  of  flying  to  acquire  her.  But  then  the  Egyptian  author 
merely  intended  to  acquaint  liis  reader  beforehand  with  what  was  about  to 
happen.  Thus,  in  the  Story  of  the  Two  Brothert,  the  magicians  of  Pharaoh, 
without  knowing  precisely  where  the  woman  was  of  whom  Pharaoh  was 
in  search,  sent  messengers  to  all  countries,  and  specially  recommended 
that  an  escort  should  be  sent  with  the  messenger  who  went  to  the  Vale  of 
the  Acacia,  as  though  they  already  knew  that  the  daughter  of  the  gods 
was  living  there  (p.  14). 

'  Of.  p.  109,  note  4,  what  the  Egyptians  meant  by  the  name  Country  of 
Kharu. 

2  The  Egyptian  war-chariot  carried  two  men— the  charioteer,  kazana, 
who  drove,  and  the  other,  Hnni,  who  fought ;  it  is  a  titmi  whom  the  prince 
claims  as  his  father.  The  texts  show  that  these  two  persons  were  of  equal 
importance,  and  ranked  as  officers  (Maspero,  Etudes  egyptieniies,  vol.  ii, 
p.  41). 


THE   DOOMED   PRINCE  189 

my  limbs,  and  I  will  go  and  fly  with  you."  They  went  to 
fly,  as  was  their  occupation  of  every  day,  and  the  prince 
stood  afar  off  to  behold,  and  the  face  of  the  daughter  of  the 
prince  of  Naharinna  was  turned  to  him.  Now,  after  the 
days  had  passed  in  this  manner,  the  prince  went  to  fly  with 
the  sons  of  the  rulers,  and  he  flew,  and  he  reached  the  window 
of  the  daughter  of  the  chief  of  Naharinna ;  she  kissed  him, 
and  she  embraced  him  in  all  his  limbs. 

They   went   to   rejoice   the   heart   of    the   father   of  the 
princess,  and  said  to  him,  "  A  man  has  reached  the  window 
of  thy  daughter"     The  prince  questioned   the  messenger, 
saying,  "  The  son  of  which  of  the  princes  ?  "     They  said  to 
him,  "  The  son  of  a  soldier  of  chariots  who  comes  as  a  fugitive 
from  the  country  of  Egypt  to  escape  his  step-mother  when 
she  had  children."     The  prince  of  Naharinna  became  very 
angry ;  he  said,  "  Shall   I  give  my  daughter  to  a  fugitive 
from  the  land  of  Egypt  ?     Let  him  return  there ! "     They 
went  to  say  to  the  prince,  "  Eetum  to  the  place  from  whence 
thou  art  come."     But  the  princess  seized  him,  and  she  sware 
by  God,  saying,  "  By  the  life  of  Phra  Harmakhis  M    if  he 
is  taken  from  me,  I  will  not  eat,  I  will  opt  drink,  I  will  die 
immediately."     The  messenger  went  to  repeat  all  that  she 
had  said  to  her  father,  and  the  prince  sent  men  to  slay  the 
young  man  while  he  was  in  her  house.     The  princess  said  to 
them,  "  By  the  life  of  Phra !  if  he  is  killed,  by  sundown 
I  shall  be  dead  ;  I  will  not  spend  one  hour  of  life  apart  from 
him."     They  went  to  tell  her  father.      The  prince  caused 
the  young  man  to  be  brought  with  the  princess.     The  young 
man  was  seized  with  terror  when  he  came  before  the  prince, 
but  the  prince  embraced  him,  he  covered  him  with  kisses,  he 
said  to  him,  "  Tell  me  who  thou  art,  for  behold,  thou  art  to  me 
as  a  son."     The  young  man  said,  "  I  am  the  son  of  a  soldier 

'  One  would  expect  to  find  a  Syrian  princess  swear  by  Baal  or  Astarte; 
the  author,  not  considering  the  matter  closely,  twice  puts  in  her  mouth  the 
Egyptian  form  of  oath  by  PhrS-Harmakhis  and  by  Phra. 


190  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

of  chariots  of  the  country  of  Egypt.  My  mother  died,  and 
my  father  took  another  wife.  She  hated  me,  and  I  fled 
before  her."  The  chief  gave  him  his  daughter  to  wife ;  he 
gave  him  a  house,  vassals,  fields,  also  cattle,  and  all  manner 
of  good  things.^ 

Now,  when  the  days  had  passed  thus,  the  young  man 
said  to  his  wife,  "  I  am  doomed  to  three  destinies,  the 
crocodile,  the  serpent,  the  dog."  She  said  to  him,  "Let 
the  dog  be  killed  that  runs  before  thee."  He  said  to  her, 
"  If  it  please  thee,  I  will  not  kill  my  dog  that  I  brought 
up  when  it  was  little."  She  feared  for  her  husband  greatly, 
greatly,  and  she  did  not  let  him  go  out  alone.  Now  it 
happened  that  one  desired  to  travel ;  the  prince  was  escorted 
to  the  land  of  Egypt,  to  wander  about  the  country.^  Now 
behold,  the  crocodile  of  the  river  came  out  of  the  river,' 
and  he  came  into  the  midst  of  the  town  where  the  prince 
was;  they  shut  him  up  in  a  dwelling  where  there  was  a 
giant. .  The  giant  did  not  let  the  crocodile  go  out,  but  when 
the  crocodile  slept  the  giant  went  out  for  a  stroll;  then 
when  the  sun  arose,  the  giant  returned  every  day,  for  an 
interval  of  two  months  of  days.^  And  after  that  the  days 
had  passed  in  this  manner,  the  prince  remained  to  divert 
himself  in  his  house.     When  the  night  came,  the   prince 

'  See  above,  pp.  79-80,  the  enumeration  of  the  possessions  settled  by 
the  prince  of  Tonu  on  Sinuhtt  when  he  gave  him  his  daughter  in  marriage. 

^  Possibly  to  hunt  in  that  country ;  as  at  the  beginning  of  this  story, 
p.  187. 

'  As  in  the  Tale  of  the  Two  Brotlwn  (p.  12,  note  4),  the  author  does 
not  name  the  river  to  which  he  refers.  He  uses  the  word  iaumd,  iom,  the 
sea,  the  river,  and  that  is  suflScient.  Egypt  had,  in  fact,  no  other  river 
than  the  Nile.  The  reader  would  immediately  realise  that  the  Nile  was 
intended  by  iaAma,  as  the  fellah  of  to-day  understands  when  the  word 
iahr  is  used  without  the  epithet  malkhah,  salt ;  iahr  el  malhhah  signifies 
the  sea. 

*  The  giant  and  the  crocodile  are  two  astronomical  personages,  the 
emblems  of  two  important  constellations  which  are  seen  figured,  among 
others,  on  the  roof  of  the  Ramesseum.  It  seems  that  the  god  had  sent 
them  down  to  earth  to  accomplish  the  destiny  predicted  by  the  seven 
Hathors. 


THE   DOOMED   PRINCE  191 

lay  down  on  his  bed,  and  sleep  took  possession  of  his  limbs. 
His  wife  filled  a  vase  with  milk,  and  placed  it  by  her  side. 
When  a  serpent  came  out  of  its  hole  to  bite  the  prince, 
behold,  his  wife  watched  over  her  husband  with  close 
attention.  Then  the  maid-servants  gave  milk  to  the 
serpent ; '  it  drank  of  it,  it  became  drunk,  it  lay  on  its 
back,  and  the  wife  cut  it  in  pieces  with  blows  of  her  hatchet. 
Her  husband  was  awakened,  who  was  seized  with  astonish- 
ment, and  she  said  to  him,  "  Behold,  thy  god  has  given  one 
of  thy  fates  into  thy  hand  ;  he  will  give  thee  the  others." 
He  presented  offerings  to  the  god,  he  adored  him,  and 
exalted  his  power  all  the  days  of  his  life. 

And  after  the  days  had  passed  in  this  manner,  the  prince 
came  out  to  walk  near  his  domain,  and  as  he  never  came 
out  alone,  behold,  his  dog  was  behind  him.  His  dog  started 
in  pursuit  of  the  game,  and  he  ran  after  the  dog.  When 
he  reached  the  river,  he  went  down  the  bank  of  the  river 
behind  his  dog,  and  the  crocodile  came  out  and  dragged 
him  to  the  place  where  the  giant  was.  He  came  out  and 
saved  the  prince ;  then  the  crocodile  said  to  the  prince, 
"  Lo,  I  am  thy  destiny  that  pursues  thee ;  whatever  thou 
mayest  do,  thou  wilt  be  brought  back  on  to  my  path  (?)  to 
me,  thou  and  the  giant.  Now,  behold,  I  am  about  to  let 
thee  go ;  if  the  .  .  .  thou  wilt  know  that  my  enchantments 
have  triumphed,  and  that  the  giant  is  slain ;  and  when  thou 
seest  that  the  giant  is  slain,  thou  seest  thy  death."  ^  And 
when  the  earth  lightened,  and  the  second  day  was,  then 
came  .  .  . 

[The   prophecy  of   the   crocodile  is  so  much  mutilated    that 

'  Of.  on  tbe  method  by  -which  the  Egyptians  attracted  serpents  the 
passage  of  Phylarchus,  Fragment  26,  in  Miiller-Didot,  Fragmenta'  Sis- 
toricorum    Orcecorum,  vol.  i,  p.   340. 

^  There  is  here  the  indication  of  an  intersign  similar  to  those  I  have 
already  remarked  on  in  the  Tale,  of  the  Two  Brotliers  (p.  10)  and  in 
the  second  story  of  Satni-KJiamou  (p.  165).  Unfortunately  a  lacuna 
prevents  our  recognising  its  nature. 


192  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

I  cannot  guarantee  its  exact  meaning ;  we  can  only  guess  that 
the  monster  set  some  kind  of  fatal  dilemma  before  his  adversary ; 
or  that  the  prince  fulfilled  a  certain  condition,  and  succeeded 
in  overcoming  the  crocodile,  or  that  he  did  not  fulfil  it,  and 
that  he  saw  his  death.  Ebers  has  restored  this  episode  in  a 
different  vvay.^  He  has  supposed  that  the  giant  was  not  able 
to  save  the  prince,  but  that  the  crocodile  proposed  to  him  to 
spare  the  prince  under  certain  conditions.] 

"  Thou  wilt  swear  to  me  to  slay  the  giant ;  if  thou  dost 
refuse  this,  thou   shalt   see   death."     And  when  the   earth 
lightened,  and   a   second   day  was,  the   dog  came  up  and 
saw  that  his  master  was  in  the  power  of  the  crocodile.     The 
crocodile  said  again,  "  Wilt  thou  swear  to  slay  the  giant  ?  " 
The  prince  replied,  "  Why  should  I  slay  him  who  has  watched 
over  me  ?  "      The  crocodile  said  to  him,  "  Then   shall  thy 
destiny  be  accompKshed.    If,  at  sundown,  thou  wilt  not  make 
the  oath  that  I  demand,  thou  shalt   see  thy  death."     The 
dog,  having  heard  these  words,  ran  to  the  house,  and  found 
the  daughter  of  the  prince  of  Naharinna  in  tears,  for  her 
husband  had  not  reappeared    since  the  day  before.     When 
she  saw  the  dog  alone,  without  its  master,  she  wept  aloud, 
and  she  tore  her  breast;   but  the  dog   seized  her   by  her 
robe,  and  drew  her  to  the  door,  as  asking  her  to  come  out. 
She  arose,  she  took  the  hatchet  with  which  she  had  killed 
the  serpent,  and  she  followed  the  dog  to  that  part  of  the 
shore  where  the  giant  was.     She  then  hid  herself  in  the 
reeds,  and  she  neither  drank  nor  ate ;  she  did  nothing  but 
pray  the  gods  for  her  husband.     When  evening  arrived  the 
crocodile  said  again,  "  Wilt  thou  swear  to  slay  the  giant  ? 
if  not,   I  will  take  thee  to  the  shore,  and  thou  shalt  see 
thy  death."     And  he  replied,  "  Why  should  I  slay  him  who 
has  watched  over  me  ? "     Then  the  crocodile  took  him  to 
the  place  where  the  woman  was,  and  she  came  out  of  the 
reeds,  and,  behold,  as  the  crocodile  opened  its  jaws,  she  struck 

'  Ebers,  Das  alte  ^gyptische  Marchen  voni  venvuiischenen  Prinzen,  in  the 
number  for  October  1881  of  WesUniiann's  Monatshefte,  pp.  99-102. 


THE  DOOMED   PRINCE  193 

it  with  her  hatchet,  and  the  giant  threw  himself  on  it  and 
killed  it.  Then  she  embraced  the  prince,  and  she  said  to 
him,  "Behold,  thy  god  has  given  the  second  of  thy  fates 
into  thy  hands ;  he  will  give  thee  the  third."  He  presented 
offerings  to  the  god,  he  adored  him,  and  exalted  his  might 
all  the  days  of  his  Hfe. 

And  after  this  enemies  entered  the  country.  For  the  sons 
of  the  princes  of  the  country  of  Kharu,  furious  at  seeing  the 
princess  in  the  hands  of  an  adventurer,  had  assembled  their 
foot-soldiers  and  their  chariots,  they  had  destroyed  the  army 
of  the  chief  of  Naharinna,  and  they  had  taken  him  prisoner. 
When  they  did  not  find  the  princess  and  her  husband,  they 
said  to  the  old  chief :  "  Where  is  thy  daughter  and  that  son 
of  a  soldier  of  chariots  from  the  land  of  Egypt,  to  whom 
thou  hast  given  her  as  wife  ?  "  He  answered  therrf :  "  He  is 
gone  with  her  to  hunt  the  beasts  of  the  country — how  should 
I  know  where  they  are  ?  "  Then  they  deliberated,  and  they 
said  one  to  another :  "  Let  us  divide  into  small  bands,  and 
go  hither  and  thither  over  the  whole  world,  and  he  who 
shall  find  them,  let  him  slay  the  young  man,  and  let  him 
do  as  pleases  him  with  the  woman."  And  they  departed, 
some  to  the  east,  and  some  to  the  west,  to  the  north,  to  the 
south;  and  those  who  had  gone  to  the  south  reached  the 
land  of  Egypt,  at  the  same  time  that  the  young  man  was 
with  the  daughter  of  the  chief  of  Naharinna.  But  the  giant 
saw  them ;  he  hastened  to  the  young  man,  and  said  to  him  : 
"  Behold,  seven  sons  of  the  princes  of  the  country  of  Kharu 
come  to  seek  thee.  If  they  find  thee,  they  will  slay  thee, 
and  will  do  with  thy  wife  as  it  pleases  them.  They  are  too 
many  for  thee  to  resist;  flee  from  them,  and  for  me,  I 
wiU  return  to  my  brothers."  Then  the  prince  called  his 
wife,  he  took  his  dog  with  him,  and  they  all  hid  themselves 
in  a  cave  of  the  mountain.  They  had  been  there  two  days 
and  two  nights  when  the  sons  of  the  princes  of  Kharu 
arrived   with   many   soldiers,  and  they  passed  before  the 


194  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

mouth  of  the  cave  without  any  of  them  perceiving  the 
prince;  but  as  the  last  of  them  came  near,  the  dog  went 
out  against  him  and  began  to  bark.  The  sons  of  the  princes 
of  Kharu  recognised  him,  and  they  came  back  and  went  into 
the  cave.  The  wife  threw  herself  before  her  husband  to 
protect  him,  but,  behold,  a  lance  struck  her,  and  she  fell 
dead  before  him.  And  the  young  man  slew  one  of  the 
princes  with  his  sword,  and  the  dog  killed  another  with  his 
teeth,  but  the  rest  struck  them  with  their  lances,  and  they 
fell  to  the  ground  unconscious.  Then  the  princes  dragged 
the  bodies  out  of  the  cave,  and  left  them  stretched  on  the 
ground  to  be  devoured  by  wild  beasts  and  birds  of  prey, 
and  they  departed  to  rejoin  their  companions  and  divide 
with  them  the  lands  of  the  chief  of  Naharinna. 

And  behold,  when  the  last  of  the  princes  had  departed, 
the  young  man  opened  his  eyes,  and  he  saw  his  wife 
stretched  on  the  ground  by  his  side,  as  dead,  and  the  dead 
body  of  his  dog.  Then  he  trembled,  and  he  said  :  "  In  truth, 
the  gods  fulfil  immutably  that  which  they  have  decreed 
beforehand.  The  Hathors  have  decided,  from  my  infancy, 
that  I  should  perish  by  the  dog,  and  behold,  their  sentence 
has  been  executed,  for  it  is  the  dog  which  has  betrayed  me 
to  mine  enemies.  I  am  ready  to  die,  because,  without 
these  two  beings,  who  lie  beside  me,  life  is  intolerable  to 
me."  And  he  raised  his  hands  to  the  sky,  and  cried  :  "  I 
have  not  sinned  against  you,  0  ye  gods !  Therefore  grant 
me  a  happy  burial  in  this  world,  and  to  be  true  of  voice 
before  the  judges  of  Amentit."  He  sank  down  as  dead,  but 
the  gods  had  heard  his  voice,  the  Ennead  of  the  gods  came 
to  him,  and  Ea-Harmakhis  said  to  his  companions  :  "  The 
doom  is  fulfilled  ;  now  let  us  give  a  new  life  to  these  two 
wedded  people,  for  it  is  good  to  reward  worthily  the  devotion 
which  they  have  shown  one  to  the  other.''  And  the  mother 
of  the  gods  approved  with  her  head  the  words  of  Ea- 
Harmakhis,    and   she    said  :    "  Such   devotion  deserves  very 


THE   DOOMED   PRINCE  196 

great  reward."  The  other  gods  said  the  same ;  then  the 
seven  Hathors  came  forward,  and  they  said :  "  The  doom 
is  fulfilled ;  now  they  shall  return  to  life."  And  they 
returned  to  life  immediately. 

In  his  conclusion,  Ebers  relates  that  the  prince  reveals  to  the 
daughter  of  the  chief  of  Naharinna  his  real  origin,  and  that  he 
returns  to  Egypt,  where  his  father  receives  him  with  joy.  He 
speedily  returns  to  Naharinna,  defeats  his  murderers,  and  re- 
places the  old  chief  on  his  throne.  On  his  return,  he  consecrates 
the  booty  to  AmonrS,,  and  passes  the  remainder  of  his  days  in 
complete  happiness. 

Nothing  could  be  better  conceived  than  this  ending ;  I  do  not, 
however,  believe  that  the  ancient  Egyptian  writer  had  the 
compassion  for  his  heroes  that  is  so  ingeniously  shown  by  the 
modern  author.  Destiny  does  not  allow  itself  to  be  set  aside  in 
the  ancient  East,  and  does  not  permit  its  decrees  to  be  evaded. 
At  times  it  suspends  their  execution,  but  never  annuls  them. 
If  Oambyses  is  condemned  to  die  near  Ecbatana,  it  is  in  vain 
for  him  to  fly  from  Ecbatana  in  Media  on  the  appointed  day — 
he  finds  in  Syria  the  Ecbatana  with  which  the  gods  threatened 
him.  When  a  child  is  doomed  to  perish  violently  in  his  twentieth 
year,  his  father  may  shut  him  in  a  subterranean  abode ;  to 
that  place  Sindbad  the  sailor  is  led  by  fate,  and  by  mischance 
will  slay  the  doomed  victim.  I  do  not  believe  that  the  hero  of 
this  story  escaped  this  law ;  he  triumphed  over  the  crocodile,  but 
the  dog,  in  the  ardour  of  battle,  mortally  wounded  his  master, 
and  fulfilled,  without  intending  it,  the  prediction  of  the  Hithors. 


THE  STORY  OF  EHAMPSINITUS 

(SAITE   PERIOD) 

The  earliest  known  form  of  this  story  was  transmitted  to  us  by 
Herodotus  (II,  cixi).  It  is  found  among  most  nations,  both  of 
the  East  and  the  West,  and  the  question  of  its  origin  has  often 
been  discussed.  In  the  Introduction  to  this  volume  I  have  given 
my  reasons  for  believing  that  if  it  was  not  invented  in  Egypt  it 
had  been  Egyptianised  long  before  Herodotus  wrote  it  down.  I 
will  add  here  that  the  name  of  Rhampsinitus  was  given  in  Egypt 
to  the  hero  of  many  marvellous  adventures.  "  The  priests  say  that 
this  king  descended  alive  into  the  region  that  the  Greeks  call  Hades, 
that  he  played  at  dice  with  the  goddess  Demeter,  sometimes  beating 
her,  sometimes  beaten  by  her,  and  that  he  returned,  bringing  with 
him  as  a  present  from  the  goddess  a  golden  napkin"  {Herodotus 
II,  cxxii).  These  lines  contain  a  brief  summary  of  an  Egyptian 
tale,  the  two  principal  scenes  of  which  recall  in  a  remarkable 
manner  the  game  played  by  Satni  and  Nenoferkephtah  in  the  first 
place  (pp.  133-134),  the  descent  of  Satni  into  Hades  with  the  aid 
of  Senosiris  in  the  second  place  (pp.  149-153). 

The  French  translation  adopted  here  was  that  of  Pierre  Saliat, 
slightly  touched  up  ;  by  a  singular  coincidence,  it  has  served  to 
re-introduce  the  story  into  the  popular  literature  of  Southern  Egypt. 
In  1884  I  gave  a  copy  of  the  first  edition  of  this  book  to  M.  Nicholas 
Odescalchi,  then  master  of  the  school  at  Thebes,  who  died  in  1892. 
He  related  the  principal  points  to  some  of  his  pupils,  who  told 
them  to  others.  Since  1885  I  have  acquired  two  transcriptions  of 
this  new  version,  one  of  which  was  published  in  the  Jourruil 
Adatiqiie,  1885,  vol.  vi,  pp.  149-159,  the  text  in  Arabic  with  a 
French  translation,  but  reproduced  in  Etudes  igyptiennes,  vol.  i, 
pp.  301-311.  The  narrative  has  not  been  much  altered,;  although  one 
of  the  episodes  has  disappeared — that  in  which  Rhampsinitus  prosti- 
tutes his  daughter.  One  can  understand  that  a  schoolmaster,  speaking 
to  children,  woidd  not  relate  the  story  in  all  its  native  crudity. 

King  Rhampsinitus'  possessed  a  treasure   so   great  that 

'  This  name  is  merely  Eamses  augmented  by  the  addition  of  a  syllable 
nitot  to  difEereutiate  it  (see  Introduction,  p.  xxxiii). 

196 


THE   STORY  OF  RHAMPSINITUS  197 

his  successors,  far  from  surpassing,  could  never  even 
approach  it.  To  keep  it  in  safety,  he  caused  a  small 
chamber  of  hewn  stone  to  be  built,  and  desired  that  one 
of  the  walls  should  project  beyond  the  work  and  beyond 
the  enclosure  of  his  palace ;  but  the  mason  cut  and  set  a 
stone  so  accurately  that  two  men,  and  even  one  alone, 
could  draw  it  and  move  it  from  its  place.'  When  the 
chamber  was  finished,  the  king  placed  all  his  treasures  in 
it;  some  time  afterwards,  the  mason-architect,  feeling  the 
end  of  his  life  approaching,  called  his  children,  who  were 
two  sons,  and  declared  how  he  had  provided  for  them, 
and  the  artifice  which  he  had  used  within  the  chamber  of 
the  king,  in  order  that  they  might  live  luxuriously.  And 
after  having  made  them  clearly  understand  the  means  of 
withdrawing  the  stone,  he  gave  them  certain  measure- 
ments, telling  them  that  if  they  guarded  them  carefully 
they  would  be  the  custodians  of  the  king's  treasury; 
thereupon  he  departed  from  life  to  death. 

After  this  his  sons  barely  waited  to  commence  work ; 
they  came  by  night  to  the  palace  of  the  king,  and  having 
easily  found  the  stone,  they  drew  it  from  its  place  and 
took  away  a  large  sum  in  silver.  But  when  fortune  decreed 
that  the  king  should  open  his  chamber,  he  was  greatly 
astonished,  seeing  his  cofifers  much  diminished,  and  not 
knowing  whom  to  accuse  or  suspect,  although  he  found  the 
marks  he  had  placed  there  whole  and  entire,  and  the 
chamber  very  well  closed  and  sealed.  And  after  he  had 
returned  two  or  three  times  to  see  whether  his  coffers 
still  diminished,  in  order  to  secure  that  the  robbers  no 
longer  returned  home  so  freely,  he  commanded  certain 
traps  to  be  made  and  placed  near  the  coffers  in  which 
were   the    treasures.     The   robbers    returned    according  to 

'  See  in  the  Introduction,  pp.  xliv-xlv,  the  commentary  on  this  passage. 
It  is  possible  that  in  the  Story  of  Khufui  we  have  another  instance  of  a 
movable  block  (cf.  p.  34). 
18 


198  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

their  custom,  and  one  went  into  the  chamber ;  but,  as 
soon  as  he  went  near  a  coffer,  he  found  himself  caught  in 
a  trap.  Knowing  the  danger  that  threatened  him,  he  speedily 
called  his  brother,  and  showed  him  the  position  in  which 
he  was,  recommending  him  to  come  to  him  and  cut  off 
his  head,  in  order  that  if  he  were  recognised  both  might 
not  perish.  His  brother  thought  that  he  spoke  wisely, 
and  thereupon  did  that  which  he  had  suggested.  Having 
replaced  the  stone,  he  returned  with  his  brother's  head. 

When  it  was  day  the  king  went  into  his  chamber,  but 
seeing  the  body  of  the  thief  caught  in  the  trap,  and  with- 
out a  head,  he  was  greatly  afraid,  as  there  was  no  appearance 
of  a  way  in  or  out,  and  being  in  doubt  how  he  could  act 
in  such  a  circumstance,  he  adopted  the  expedient  of 
hanging  the  body  of  the  dead  man  on  the  wall  of  the 
town,'  and  charging  certain  guards  to  apprehend  and  bring 
to  him  any  one  they  saw  weeping  and  bewailing  the  sus- 
pended body.  The  body  being  thus  promptly  hung  up, 
his  mother,  in  the  great  grief  she  felt,  spoke  to  her  other 
son,  and  commanded  him,  however  it  was  done,  to  have 
the  body  of  his  brother  brought  to  her,  threatening,  if  he 
refused  to  do  so,  to  go  to  the  king  and  tell  him  who  had 
his  treasure.  The  son,  seeing  that  his  mother  took 
these  matters  thus  to  heart,  and  that  he  profited  nothing 
by  the  remonstrance  that  he  made,  invented  this  trick. 
He  had  pack-saddles  placed  on  certain  asses,  loaded  them 
with  goat-skins  full  of  wine,^  and    drove   them  in  front  of 

'  This  exposing  of  a  corpse  on  the  wall  of  the  city  has  been  quoted  to 
show  that  the  origin  of  the  story  was  not  Egyptian.  The  Egyptians,  it  has 
been  said,  had  religious  scruples  that  would  prevent  their  civil  law  allowing 
such  an  exhibition,  and  that  after  execution  the  body  was  handed  over  to 
the  relatives  to  be  mummified.  Against  this  objection  I  will  only  quote  a 
passage  of  a  stela  of  Amenothes  II,  where  the  king  states  that  after  having 
captured  several  Syrian  chieftains  he  exposed  their  bodies  on  the  walls  of 
Thebes  and  Napata,  in  order  to  deter  the  rebels  by  such  a  terrible  exanaple. 
That  which  was  done  by  a  real  Pharaoh  may  well  have  been  done  by  the 
Pharaoh  of  a  romance,  even  if  it  were  exceptional. 

''  The  Egyptians  did  not  usually  make  use  of  skins  to  contain  wine,  but 


THE   STORY  OF   RHAMPSINITUS  199 

him.  When  he  arrived  at  the  place  where  the  guards 
were,  that  is  to  say,  near  the  dead  body,  he  untied  two  or 
three  of  his  goat-skins,  and  seeing  the  wine  running  out, 
began  to  beat  his  head  while  naaking  loud  exclamations, 
as  though  he  did  not  know  which  of  his  asses  he  should 
turn  to  first.  The  guards,  seeing  what  a  large  quantity 
of  wine  was  being  spilt,  ran  to  the  place  with  vessels, 
considering  it  so  much  gain  to  themselves  if  they  could 
collect  the  wasted  wine.  The  merchant  began  to  abuse 
them,  and  pretended  to  be  very  infuriated  with  them. 
However,  the  guards  were  civil,  and  after  a  time  he  quieted 
down  and  moderated  his  wrath.  Finally  he  turned  his 
asses  out  of  the  road  to  re-saddle  and  reload  them,  while 
making  various  small  remarks  of  one  sort  and  another,  so 
that  one  of  the  guards  made  a  jest  to  the  merchant,  at 
which  he  only  laughed,  at  the  same  time  giving  them  in 
addition  another  skin  of  wine.  And  when  they  were  minded 
to  sit  down  as  they  were,  and  drink  more,  asking  the 
merchant  to  stay  and  keep  them  company  in  drinking,  he 
consented,  and  seeing  that  they  treated  him  well  in  the 
matter  of  drinking,  he  gave  them  the  remainder  of  his 
skins  of  wine.  When  they  had  drunk  so  much  that  they 
were  dead  drunk,  sleep  came  upon  them,  and  they  slept  in 
that  same  place.  The  merchant  waited  well  into  the  night, 
then  went  to  take  down  the  body  of  his  brother,  and 
laughing  at  the  guards,  cut   off  all  their  beards  ^  on  the 

almost  invariably  employed  small  pointed  jars.  The  slaves  carried  them  to 
the  workshops  or  the  fields,  and  it  is  not  unusual  in  the  paintings  that 
represent  farm  work  to  see  a  harvester  with  his  reaping-hook  under  his 
arm  drinking  out  of  a  jar.  The  use  of  goat-skins  was,  however,  not  un- 
known, and  among  other  instances  I  can  quote  a  picture  of  gardening  found 
in  a  Theban  tomb,  reproduced  by  Wilkinson  (_A  Popular  Aooount  of  the 
Ancient  Egyptians,  vol.  i,  p.  35,  fig.  29) ;  one  sees  there  three  goat-skins 
of  water  placed  on  the  edge  of  a  pool  as  a  refreshment.  The  detail  given 
by  Herodotus  is  therefore  consistent  at  all  points  with  the  customs  of 
ancient  Egypt. 

'  For  the  appreciation  of  this  detail  I  refer  readers  to  the  Introduction, 
p.  xlv,  for  what  is  said  as  to  the  beards  of  Egyptian  soldiers. 


200  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT   EGYPT 

right  side.  He  placed  the  body  of  his  brother  on  the 
asses,  and  drove  them  back  to  his  dwelling,  having  carried 
out  the  command  of  his  mother. 

The  next  day,  when  the  king  was  told  that  the  body 
of  the  robber  had  been  taken  away  by  subtlety,  he  was 
greatly  grieved,  and  wishing  by  any  means  to  discover  who 
had  used  such  ingenuity,  he  did  a  thing  which,  for  my 
part,  I  cannot  believe.  He  opened  the  house  of  his 
daughter,  he  enjoined  her  to  receive  indiscriminately  who- 
soever might  come  to  her  to  take  his  pleasure,  but  always, 
before  allowing  him  to  touch  her,  to  force  each  one  to  tell 
her  the  cleverest  and  the  most  wicked  thing  he  had  done 
in  his  life ;  and  that  he  who  told  this  escapade  of  the  thief 
was  to  be  seized  by  her,  and  not  allowed  to  leave  her 
room.'  The  daughter  obeyed  her  father's  order,  but  the 
thie^  understanding  the  object  with  which  this  was  done, 
wished  to  outdo  the  ingenuity  of  the  king,  and  counter- 
acted it  in  this  fashion.  He  cut  off  the  arm  of  a  man 
newly  dead,  and  hiding  it  under  his  robe,  he  made  his 
way  to  the  girl.  When  he  had  entered  she  questioned 
him  as  to  his  doings,  and  he  told  her  that  the  most 
enormous  crime  he  had  committed  was  when  he  cut  off  the 
head  of  his  brother,  caught  in  a  trap  in  the  king's  trea- 
sury. Also,  that  the  cleverest  thing  that  he  had  done  was 
when  he  took  down  that  same  brother  after  having  made 
the  guards  drunk.  When  she  heard  it  she  did  not  fail  to 
seize  him,  but  the  thief,  with  the  aid  of  the  darkness  in 
her  chamber,  held  out  the  dead  hand  which  he  "had 
hidden,  which  she  seized,  believing  that  this  was  the  hand 
of  him  who  spoke  to  her ;  but  she  found  herself  mistaken, 
for  the  thief  had  time  to  get  out  and  escape. 

'  However  strange  this  proceeding  may  appear  to  us,  we  must  believe 
that  it  seemed  natural  to  the  Egyptians,  since  the  daughter  of  Cheops  was 
ordered  by  her  father  to  open  her  house  to  all  comers  for  the  sake  of 
money  (^Serodotia  II,  cxxvi),  and  Tbubul  invited  Satni  to  her  house  in 
order  to  force  him  to  give  up  the  book  of  Thoth  (see  above,  pp.  137-140). 


THE   STORY  OF   RHAMPSINITUS  201 

When  the  thing  was  reported  to  the  king  he  marvelled 
gpreatly  at  the  astuteness  and  boldness  of  that  man. 
Finally  he  commanded  that  it  should  be  proclaimed  in 
all  the  towns  of  his  kingdom  that  he  pardoned  this 
person,  and  that  if  he  would  come  and  present  himself  to 
him,  he  would  confer  great  benefits  on  him.  The  thief 
placed  faith  in  this  proclamation  made  by  the  king,  and 
he  came  to  him.  When  the  king  saw  him  he  made 
much  of  him ;  he  gave  him  his  daughter  in  marriage, 
as  the  most  clever  of  men,  who  had  outwitted  the 
Egyptians,  who  themselves  outwit  all  nations. 


THE  VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS 
OF  SYEIA 

The  manuscript  that  contains  this  story  was  found  in  the  autumn  of 
1891  near  the  village  of  El-Hibeh,  almost  opp;site  Fechn,  and  the 
principal  part  of  the  fragments  of  which  it  consists  were  acquired 
shortly  afterwards  by  Gol6nischeflF.  They  comprise  the  first  quarter 
and  the  last  half  of  the  first  page,  the  second  page  almost  complete, 
and  several  lines  much  mutilated  that  Gol^nischeff  attributed  to  the 
third  page.  In  1892  Henri  Brugsch  discovered  in  a  quantity  of 
papyrus  just  acquired  by  him,  a  fragment  that  completed  the  second 
page.  Since  then  no  other  fragment  has  been  recovered,  and  it  is  to 
be  feared  that  the  manuscript  will  always  remain  incomplete. 

In  1898  Gol6nischeflf  iflserted  a  Eussian  translation,  accompanied 
by  a  phototype  of  the  first  twenty-one  lines,  in  the  Becueil 
de  Memoires  presented  to  M.  de  Rosen  by  his  pupils  of  the 
University  of  Petrograd  on  the  occasion  of  his  jubilee.  The 
following  year  he  published  the  text  transcribed  into  hieroglyphs, 
and  a  complete  translation,  extremely  good  as  a  whole  :  Golenischeflf, 
Papyrus  hieratique  de  la  collection  W.  GoUnischeff,  eontenant  la 
description  du  Voyage  de  VEgyptien  Ounou-Amon  en  Phdnicie,  in 
the  Becueil  de  Travaux,  1899,  vol.  xxi,  pp.  74-104  (published 
separately  by  Bouillon,  1899,  24  pp.  4to.) 

The  text  was  almost  immediately  worked  through  and  translated 
into  German  by  W.  Max  Miiller,  Studien  zur  vorderasiatischen 
Geschichte.  Die  Urheimat  der  PhUister,  Der  Papyrus  GoUnischejf, 
Die  Chronologic  der  Philistereinwanderung  (in  the  Mittheilungen 
der  Vorderasiatischen  Gesellschaft,  1900,  I),  Berlin,  8vo,  pp.  14-29  ; 
then  by  A.  Erman,  Fine  Reise  nach  Phonizien  in  XL  Jahrhundert  vor 
Christ,  in  Zdtschrift,  1900,  vol.  xxxviii,  pp.  1-14. 

Erman  recognised  that  the  fragment  supposed  by  Gol6nischefif  to 
belong  to  page  iii  of  the  manuscript  belonged  in  reality  to  the  first 
page,  and  he  restored  the  sequence  of  events  more  accurately  than 
had  been  done  before;  he  admitted  on  the  other  hand  that  the 
document  was  historic.  Lange  immediately  contributed  a  Danish 
translation,  in  which  he  followed  the  order  adopted  by  Erman  : 
H.  O-  Lange,    Wen-Amons  beretning  om  hans  rejse  tel  Phonizien, 

202 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OF  SYRIA    203 

in  Nordisk  Tidskrift,  1902,  pp.  515-526  (printed  separately  11  pp. 
8vo,  without  special  pagination). 

Finally  there  is  a  fresh  German  translation  in  the  charming  little 
work  by  A.  "Wiedemann,  Altdgyptische  Sagen  und  Mdrchen,  8vo, 
Leipzig,  1906,  pp.  94-113,  as  well  as  a  short  analysis  with  English 
translation  in  Breasted,  Ancient  Records  of  Egypt,  vol.  iv,  pp-  274- 
287,  which  still  maintains  the  historical  nature  of  the  fragment. 

All  the  scholars  who  have  worked  at  this  papyrus  have  admitted, 
more  or  less  frankly,  that  the  writing  it  contains  is  an  official  report 
addressed  to  Hrihoru  by  Unamunu  on  his  return  from  his  mission  to 
Phoenicia.  The  general  form  of  the  fragment,  the  emphatic  tone  that 
predominates  it,  the  importance  attributed  all  through  it  to  the 
statue  of  Amon  of  the  Boad,  leads  me  to  believe,  and  Wiedemann  is 
equally  of  my  opinion,  that  it  is  a  document  of  the  same  kind  as  that 
on  the  Stela  of  Bakhtan  (p.  173).  Without  doubt  it  is  an 
attempt  to  bring  into  prominence  a  form  of  Amon  that  bore  that 
title,  which  was  supposed  to  protect  travellers  in  foreign  countries. 
The  narrative  of  Unamunu  tells  how  it  saved  the  Egyptian  envoy  at 
Byblos,  and  probably  also  in  Alasia.  It  formed  part  of  the  official 
charter  of  this  Amon,  and  the  redactor  has  borrowed  the  historical 
mannerisms  necessary  to  give  an  appearance  of  probability  to 
documents  of  this  nature.  Perhaps  they  had  authentic  deeds  in  their 
hands  that  enabled  them  to  date  their  story  with  accuracy.  If 
one  could  rely  on  it  with  certainty,  important  conclusions  might 
be  drawn  from  it  for  the  history  of  the  Ramessides.  One  might,  in 
fact,  note  that  after  the  fifth  year  of  his  reign,  the  last  of  them 
retained  a  mere  semblance  of  power ;  and  that  the  High-priest 
Hrihoru  exercised  power  in  the  south,  Smendes  in  the  north,  and 
other  princes  flourished  elsewhere.  Smendes  had  a  wife  Tantamtou, 
whose  name  connects  her  with  the  Theban  family,  whose  rights  were 
equal  to  his  own,  since  he  is  scarcely  referred  to  without  a  mention 
of  her  ;  it  was  perhaps  owing  to  her  that  he  succeeded  to  the  throne. 

The  information  given  in  the  manuscript  as  to  the  condition 
of  affairs  on  the  Syrian  coast  is  by  no  means  less  valuable.  A 
century  later  than  Ramses  III,  the  Zakkala,  those  allies  of  the 
Philistines  who  had  established  themselves  between  Carmel  and 
Egypt,  still  formed  a  distinct  population  that  kept  its  ancient 
name  ;  one  of  their  princes  lived  at  Dora,  their  sailors  swarmed  in 
numbers  over  the  Syrian  sea,  and  threatened  such  cities  as  Byblos. 
They  were  stiU  under  the  influence  of  Egypt,  but  they  were  no 
longer  directly  dependent  on  it,  and  the  prince  of  Dora  did  not 
hesitate  to  make  a  parade  of  his  independence  before  Unamunu. 
The  Phoenician  coast  from  Tyre  to  Byblos  also  remained  in  com- 
munication with  Egypt ;  Egyptian  was  understood  there  commonly, 
at  least  by  persons  of  high  rank,  and  the  princes  of  every  city  enter- 
tained feelings  of  respect,  almost  of  awe,  for  Pharaoh.  This  was  a 
survival  of  the  long  domination  of  four  or  five  centuries  exercised 


204  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

by  the  Theban  kings,  but  it  was  not  always  sufficient  to  procure 
a  pacific  reception  for  Egyptian  envoys.  This  story  speaks  of  the 
legates  of  Khamois,  who  had  been  retained  as  prisoners  by  Zikarbal, 
Prince  of  Byblos,  and  who,  having  died  after  seventeen  years  of 
captivity,  had  been  buried  in  the  vicinity  of  the  city.  Two  of  the 
Pharaohs  of  the  XXth  dynasty  bore  the  prenomen  of  Khamois, 
and  the  mummy  of  one  of  them  is  now  in  the  Cairo  Museum 
(No.  1196)  ;  as  the  expedition  of  Unamunu  dates  from  the  fifth  year 
of  the  second  of  these,  Eamses  XI,  the  Khamois  who  sent  those 
poor  wretches  to  their  destruction  must  necessarily  be  the  first, 
Ramses  IX.  Nevertheless,  the  name  of  Thebes  still  carried  weight 
to  a  surprising  extent  with  the  ancient  vassals  of  Egypt.  The  prince 
of  Byblos  maintained  that  he  was  no  servant  of  Pharaoh's,  and 
denied  that  his  forefathers  had  ever  been.  He  even  searched  his 
archives  to  prove  that  they  had  always  exchanged  their  wood  for 
gifts  of  equal  value,  and  that  it  had  never  been  given  for  nothing. 
When  he  had  given  vent  to  his  bad  temper  in  violent  talk,  he  caused 
the  cedars  of  Lebanon  to  be  cut  down  for  Amon,  and  parted  with 
them,  while  contenting  himself  with  very  mediocre  presents.  Every 
one  must  notice  the  resemblance  that  exists  between  this  story 
and  that  which  the  Bible  tells  of  the  negotiations  of  David  and 
Solomon  with  the  King  of  Tyre,  to  obtain  from  the  latter  the  wood 
necessary  for  the  palace  and  temple  at  Jerusalem,  Like  our  Zikarbal 
of  Byblos,  Hiram  the  Tyrian  was  not  satisfied  with  the  price  that  he 
received  for  his  supplies.  He  lamented  the  poverty  of  the  villages 
and  territory  which  Solomon  taxed  as  suzerain,  but  he  accepted  the 
payment,  and  did  not  run  the  risk  of  pushing  his  claim  too  far. 

After  leaving  Byblos,  Unamunu  was  cast  by  the  winds  on  to 
Alasia,  and  there  he  found  himself  outside  the  influence  of  Egypt. 
Whether  Alasia  was,  as  I  think,  the  mountainous  country  at  the  mouth 
of  the  Orontes,  or  if  it  was,  as  others  regard  it,  the  great  island 
of  Cyprus,  matters  little ;  it  had  never  submitted  to  Egypt  for  any 
length  of  time,  and  Egyptian  was  not  commonly  understood  by  the 
people,  as  it  was  in  the  cities  of  Phoenicia.  Unamunu  incurred  many 
perils  there,  from  which  he  was  rescued  by  the  sacred  virtue  of 
Amon-of -the- Road — how,  we  do  not  know.  The  story  breaks  oflf  at  the 
critical  moment,  and  there  is  little  chance  that  we  shall  ever  recover 
the  leaves  that  contain  the  end  of  it.  I  have  not  attempted  to 
guess  with  what  vicissitudes  it  ended,  nor  to  restore  the  incidents 
that  filled  the  very  long  gap  of  the  first  page.  I  have  introduced  a 
few  sentences  between  the  fragments  that  unite  them  to  some 
extent.  In  my  translation  I  have  attempted  to  reproduce  the  halting 
and  diflFuse  style  of  the  narrator,  which  at  times  is  very  involved, 
and  to  convey  as  clearly  as  possible  the  meaning  of  the  high-flown 
periods  that  he  puts  into  the  mouths  of  his  personages.  Here  and 
there  we  find  touches  of  picturesque  description  and  felicitous 
imagery.      The  author,  whoever  he  may  have  been,  was  what  we 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OF  SYRIA    206 

may  call  well-educated,  and  he  excelled  in  the   presentment    of 
his  story. 

In  the  year  v,  the  16th  day  of  the  third  month  of  the 
Harvest,  on  that  day,  Unamunu,  the  senior  member  of  the 
hall '  of  the  temple  of  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  lord  of 
Kamak,  started  to  procure  wood  for  the  very  august  bark 
of  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  which  is  on  the  Nile, 
Amanusihait.^ 

The  day  that  I  arrived  at  Tanis,  the  place  where  Smendes 
and  Tantamanu  were,  I  placed  in  their  hands  the  rescripts  of 
Amonra,  king  of  the  gods.'  They  caused  them  to  be  read 
in  their  presence,  and  they  said,  "  Let  it  be  done,  let  it  be 
done,  according  to  that  which  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods, 
our  master,  has  said."  I  remained  till  the  fourth  month  of 
the  Harvest  in  Tanis,  then  Smendes  and  Tantamanu  sent 
me  with  the  ship's  captain,  Mangabuti,  and  I  embarked  on 
the  great  sea  of  Syria  on  the  first  of  the  fourth  month  of 
the  Harvest.  I  arrived  at  Dora,  a  city  of  Zakkala,  and 
Badilu,  its  prince,  caused  ten  thousand  loaves  to  be  brought 
to  me,  an  amphora  of  wine,  a  haunch  of  beef.  A  man  of 
my  vessel  deserted,  taking  a  gold  vase  five  tabonu  *  in 
weight,  five  silver  vases  of  twenty  tabonu,  and  a  small  bag 
of  silver  of  eleven  tabonu,  which  made  a  total  of  five  tabonu 


'  The  title  Samsu  hai  is  best  known  to  us  by  the  representations  in  the 
tombs  of  the  Memphite  and  first  Theban  Empires,  but  it  continued,  at 
least  in  the  temples,  up  to  the  end  of  the  pagan  civilisation  of  Egypt. 
The  persons  who  bear  it  are  seen  superintending  carpenters'  work,  and  that 
is  perhaps  why  Unamunu  was  chosen  as  the  ambassador  of  the  god  in  the 
expedition  to  procure  wood.  The  translation  given  by  me  renders  the 
Egyptian  term  word  for  word,  but  does  not  give  the  meaning.  I  retain  it, 
however,  for  want  of  a  better. 

^  This  is  the  official  name  of  the  great  bark  of  Amou  of  Kamak.  (Cf. 
Brugsch,  Diet,  geographique,  p.  165.) 

'  Amonrd  was  supposed  to  reign  over  Thebes,  and  the  High-priest  was 
merely  the  official  who  executed  his  commands  on  earth.  Official  acts 
theiefore  frequently  took  the  form  of  decrees  issued  by  the  god,  and  this 
was  the  case  in  this  instance. 

*  For  the  value  of  the  tabonu  see  above,  p.  124,  note  1. 


206  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

of  gold  and  thirty-one  tabonu  of  silver.  I  arose  early  in 
the  morning,  I  went  to  the  place  where  the  king  was,  I  said 
to  him,  "  I  have  been  robbed  in  thy  port.  Now,  it  is  thou, 
the  prince  of  this  country,  who  art  its  inquisitor ;  seek  my 
gold  !  Alack,  this  silver,  it  belongs  to  Amonra,  king  of  the 
gods,  lord  of  the  countries,  it  belongs  to  Smendes,  it  belongs 
to  Hrihoru,  my  lord,  and  to  other  nobles  of  Egypt,  it  is 
thine,  it  belongs  to  Waradi,  it  belongs  to  Makamaru,  it 
belongs  to  Zikarbal,  prince  of  Byblos."  ^  He  said  to  me, 
"  To  thy  wrath,  and  to  thy  kindness  !  ^  But,  behold,  I  know 
nothing  of  this  tale  that  thou  tellest  me.  If  the  thief  is  of 
my  country,  and  has  gone  down  into  thy  vessel  and  stolen 
thy  silver,  I  will  repay  thee  from  my  treasure,  until  the  thief 
himself  is  found ;  but  if  the  thief  who  has  robbed  thee  is 
thine,  and  if  he  belongs  to  thy  vessel,  remain  several  days 
near  me,  that  I  may  seek  for  him." 

I  was  nine  days  ashore  in  this  port,  then  I  went  to  him, 
and  I  said  to  him,  "  So !  thou  findest  not  my  silver.  I  will 
go,  as  well  as  the  ship's  captain,  with  those  who  go  to  the 
port  of  Tyre.  If  thou  findest  my  Tnoney,  keep  it  by  thee, 
and  when  I  return  to  Egypt  I  will  stop  here  and  take  it." 
He  consented  to  this,  and  on  the  20th  of  the  fourth  month 
of  the  Harvest,  I  embarked  again  on  the  great  sea  of  Syria. 
[  arrived  at  the  port  of  Tyre,  I  told  my  story  to  the  prince 
of  Tyre  and  I  complaioied  of  the  prince  of  Dora  vjho  had 
not  found  the  thieves  and  ivho  had  not  returned  me  my 

'  The  meaning  of  tbis  long  enumeration  appears  to  be  :  the  stolen  money- 
was  tbe  property  both  of  those  who  had  entrusted  it  to  Unamunu,  Hrihoru 
and  Amon  of  whom  Hrihoru  was  high-prieat,  Smendes,  Tantamdnu,  and  the 
other  Egyptian  princes;  and  also  of  the  foreigners  for  whom  it  was 
intended,  whether  as  a  gift,  or  as  price  for  the  required  wood.  One  of 
these  latter,  Zikarbal,  is  the  prince  of  Byblos  whom  we  shall  meet  with 
later ;  we  know  nothing  of  the  other  two,  Waradi  and  Makamaru. 
Zikarbal  is  the  real  form  of  the  name  Acerbas,  Sychas,  Sicheus,  that  was 
borne  by  the  husband  of  the  famous  Dido. 

'  This  is  a  polite  form  of  address,  both  Syrian  and  Egyptian  :  "  I  submit 
beforehand  to  thy  wrath  or  to  thy  kindness,  according  as  my  explanations 
please  or  displease  thee." 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OP  SYRIA    207 

money,  hut  the  prince  of  Tyre  was  a  friend  of  him  of  Dora. 
He  said  to  me,  "  Be  silent,  or  m,isfortune  will  happen  to 
thee."  I  departed  from  Tyre  with  the  morning,  and  I  went 
down  on  the  great  sea  of  Syria  to  go  to  the  place  where  was 
Zikarbal,  prince  of  Byblos.  Now  there  were  some  Zakkala 
with  a  coffer  on  the  vessel ;  I  opened  the,  cofer,  I  found  the 
silver  in  it,  thirty  tabonu,  I  took  possession  of  them. 
I  said  to  them,  "  Behold,  I  take  your  silver  and  it  will 
remain  with  me  until  you  have  found  my  own  money. 
If  you  say,  '  We  do  not  know  him  who  has  stolen  it,  we 
have  not  taken  it,'  I  shall  take  it  nevertheless."  When  they 
saw  that  I  was  decided,  they  went  away,  and  I  arrived  at 
the  port  of  Byblos.  I  disembarked,  I  took  the  naos  which 
contained  the  statue  of  Amon,  god  of  the  Eoad,^  I  placed 
inside  it  the  equipment  of  the  god.  The  prince  of  Byblos 
caused  to  be  said  to  m.e,  "  Depart  from  my  port.''  I  sent 
to  him,  saying,  "  Why  dost  thou  drive  me  away  ?  Have  the 
Zakkala  told  thee  that  I  have  taken  their  money?  But, 
behold,  the  Tnoney  that  they  had  ivas  my  own  money,  which 
was  stolen  from  me  while  I  was  in  the  port  of  Dora.  Now 
behold,  I  am  the  messenger  of  Amon,  whom  Hrihoru,  m/y 
lord,  has  seid  to  thee  to  procure  the  necessary  wood  for  the 
bark  of  Amon,  and  the  vessel  that  Smendes  and  Tantamdnu 
gave  me  has  already  returned.  If  thou  desi/rest  that  1 
depart  from  thy  port,  give  an  order  to  one  of  the  captains 
of  thy  vessels  that,  when  one  goes  to  sea,  I  may  be  taken 
to  Egypt."  I  passed  nineteen  days  in  his  port,  and  he 
spent  the  time  in  sending  every  day  to  say  to  me,  "  Depart 
from  my  port."  ^ 

'  This  is  the  image  that  Hrihoru  had  'given  to  Unamunu  to  protect  him 
on  his  expedition.  Gol^nisoheflE  remarked  from  the  iirst  (Seoueil  de 
Travaux,  vol.  xxi,  p.  94,  note  1)  that  it  stood  in  the  same  relation  to  Amon 
of  Karnak  that  in  the  Stela  of  Bakhtan  (see  above  p.  176,  note  4)  the 
Khonsu  sent  to  Bakhtan  stood  in  to  the  Khonsu  who  remained  at  Thebes, 
an  actual  ambassador  of  Amon  to  the  foreign  princes  and  gods. 

^  The  restorations  that  I  have  inserted  in  this  paragraph  are  printed  in 
italics  ;  they  give  only  a  very  summary  account  of  the  events  that  occurred 


208  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Now,  as  he  sacrificed  to  his  gods,  the  god  seized  one  of 
the  chief  pages  from  among  the  pages,  and  caused  him  to 
fall  into  convulsions.*  He  said  :  "  Bring  the  god  into  the 
light !  Bring  the  messenger  of  Amon  who  is  with  him ! 
Send  him  away,  cause  him  to  depart."  While  the  convulsed 
man  was  in  convulsions,  that  night,  I  had  found  a  vessel 
destined  for  Egypt,  I  had  placed  all  that  was  mine  upon  it, 
and  I  regarded  the  darkness,  saying  :  "  Let  it  descend,  that 
I  may  embark  the  god  so  that  no  eye  beholds  him  except 
mine  own,"  when  the  commandant  of  the  port  came  to  me. 
He  said  to  me :  "  Stay  till  to-morrow,  by  desire  of  the 
prince."  I  said  to  him :  "  Art  thou  not  he  who  spent  the 
time  in  coming  to  me  every  day  saying,  '  Depart  from  my 
port '  ?  And  dost  thou  not  say  to  me  now,  '  Eemain  here,' 
so  that  the  vessel  that  I  have  found  may  depart,  after  which 
thou  wilt  come  to  me  and  wilt  say  again, '  Depart  quickly  '  ?  " 
He  turned  his  back,  he  went,  he  told  this  to  the  prince,  and 
the  prince  sent  to  tell  the  captain  of  the  vessel,  "  Stay  till 
to-morrow  morning,  by  desire  of  the  prince."  When  it  was 
morning,  he  sent  to  have  me  brought  up,  while  the  sacrifice 
was  taking  place,  into  the  castle  where  he  dwells  on  the 
sea-coast.     I  found  him  seated  in   his   upper  chamber,  his 


between  Dora  and  Byblos.  The  original  text  must  have  contained  two  or 
three  episodes  which  I  have  not  mentioned,  but  to  which  allusion  is  made 
later  on :  the  departure  of  the  vessel  that  had  brought  Unamunu  from 
Egypt,  the  introduction  of  the  image  Avion  of  the  Road,  and  the  reasons 
for  which  the  prince  of  Byblos  refused  to  receive  Unamunu. 

'  This  is  a  scene  of  prophetic  mania  of  the  sort  that  occurred  among  the 
Israelites.  The  page,  seized  by  the  god,  falls  into  a  kind  of  epileptic 
ecstasy,  during  which  he  feels  the  presence  of  the  image  Amon  of  the  Scad ; 
he  gives  the  prince  a  command  from  above  which  obliges  him  to  receive 
Dnamunu,  and  to  do  what  he  requests.  Frazer  {Adonis,  Attis,  Osiris, 
p.  67)  refuses  to  believe  with  Wiedemann  {Altagyptisohe  Sagen  und  Marchen, 
p.  99)  that  the  god  by  whom  he  is  possessed  is  Amon ;  he  thinks  rather 
that  it  is  Adonis,  because  Adonis  is  the  city  god,  and  the  privilege  of 
possession  over  one  of  the  officials  of  the  country  belonged  rather  to  him 
than  to  a  foreign  god.  The  example  of  Balaam  shows  that  a  national  god 
could  even  take  possession  of  the  prophet  of  a  foreign  god,  and  justifies  our 
interpretation. 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OF  SYRIA    209 

back  leaning  against  the  balcony,  while  the  waves  of  the 
great  Syrian  sea  beat  behind  him.  I  said  to  him,  "By 
the  favour  of  Amon !  "  He  said  to  me,  "  How  long  is  it  up 
to  to-day  since  you  left  the  place  where  Amon  is  ? "  I 
replied,  "  Five  months  and  a  day  up  to  to-day."  He  said 
to  me,  "  Come,  be  true.  Where  are  the  rescripts  of  Amon 
that  should  be  in  thy  hands  ?  Where  is  the  letter  of  that 
high-priest  of  Amon  which  should  be  in  thy  hand  ?  "  I  said 
to  him,  "  I  gave  them  to  Smendes  and  TantamS.nu."  He 
became  very  angry,  he  said  to  me,  "  Then  there  are  no 
longer  rescripts  nor  letters  in  thy  hands?  And  where  is 
that  vessel  of  acacia-wood  that  Smendes  gave  thee  ?  Where 
is  thy  crew  of  Syrians  ?  Did  he  not  hand  thee  over  to  this 
ship's  captain,  at  the  time  of  departure,  to  slay  thee  and 
throw  thee  into  the  sea  ?  If  this  is  so,  who  wUl  seek  for 
the  god  ?  and  thou  also,  who  will  seek  for  thee  ?  "  '  Thus 
he  spake  to  me.  I  said  to  him,  "  Was  it  not  an  Egyptian 
vessel,  and  was  it  not  an  Egyptian  crew,  which  sailed  by 
order  of  Smendes  ?  For  there  are  not  with  him  any  Syrian 
crews."  He  said  to  me,  "  Are  there  not  twenty  vessels  lying 
in  my  port  in  communication  with  Smendes?  And  that 
Sidon,  that  other  town  thou  wishest  to  reach,  are  there  not 
there  ten  thousand  other  vessels  which  are  in  communication 
with  Warakatilu,^  and  which  sail  to  his  house  ?  "  ' 

'  Tbe  prince  of  Byblos,  learning  that  Unamunn  had  not  the  letters  of 
credence  with  him  that  he  should  have  had,  says  openly  that  he  suspects 
him  of  being  an  adventurer.  Hrihorn  and  Smendes  may  have  sent  him  with 
an  order  to  the  captain  to  throw  him  overboard  at  sea.  In  that  case  he 
might  be  treated  without  pity ;  for  if  any  misfortune  happened  to  him  and 
to  his  statue  of  Amon  of  the  Road,  who  would  trouble  themselves  as  to  his 
fate  ?  Further  on  (p.  216)  it  will  be  seen  that  Dnamunu  insists  on  the 
fact  that  if  he  should  disappear,  he  would  be  sought  for  to  the  end  of  time 
to  avenge  his  death.  It  is  to  some  speech  of  this  kind,  now  lost  with  the 
missing  portions  of  tbe  text,  that  the  prince  of  Byblos  replies  here. 

2  Warakatllu  is  a  dialectic  form  of  a  name  which  would  be  in  Hebrew 
Berkatel  or  BerekStel. 

'  Unamunu,  as  a  reply  to  the  suspicions  of  Zikarbal,  reminds  him  that 
he  duly  arrived  in  an  Egyptian  vessel  manned  with  an  Egyptian  and  not 
a  Syrian  crew.     By  this  he  means  to  infer  that  the  Egyptian  princes  would 


210  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

I  was  silent  at  this  serious  moment.  He  resumed;  he 
said  to  me,  "  What  commission  art  thou  come  here  to 
fulfil  ?  "  I  said  to  him,  "  I  am  come  for  the  woodwork  of 
the  very  august  bark  of  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods.  That 
which  thy  father  did,  that  which  the  father  of  thy  father 
did,  do  thou  likewise."  Thus  I  spake  to  him.  He  said  to 
me,  "  That  which  they  did,  and  thou  givest  me  to  do,  I  will 
do  it.  Formerly  my  ancestors  fulfilled  this  commission 
because  Pharaoh,  1.  h.  s.,  caused  six  vessels,  filled  with  the 
merchandise  of  Egypt,  to  be  brought,  which  were  unloaded 
into  their  warehouses.  Thou,  therefore,  cause  them  to  be 
brought  to  me  likewise."  He  had  the  records  of  his  fathers 
brought  and  read  in  my  presence,  and  he  found  that  in  all 
a  thousand  tabonu  of  silver  *  was  inscribed  on  his  register. 
He  said  to  me,  "  If  the  sovereign  of  Egypt  were  my  lord, 
and  I  were  his  servant,  he  would  not  have  to  cause  silver 
and  gold  to  be  brought,  saying,  '  Fulfil  the  commission  of 
Amon.'  It  was  not  a  royal  order  that  was  brought  to  my 
father.  Now  I,  in  faith,  I  myself  am  not  thy  servant ;  I 
am  not,  I  myself,  the  servant  of  him  who  sent  thee.  I  cry 
with  a  loud  voice  to  the  trees  of  Lebanon,  and  the  heaven 
opens,  and  the  wood  lies  stretched  on  the  ground  by  the 
sea-coast ;  ^  but  let  the  sails  be  shown  me  that  thou  bringest 
to  take  thy  boats  laden  with  thy  wood  to  Egypt.     Let  the 


not  commission  Syrians  to  make  away  with  an  Egyptian.  Zikarbal  does 
not  hesitate  to  silence  him  and  remind  him  that  most  of  the  vessels 
employed  in  the  Egyptian  coasting  trade  were  Syrian  vessels,  and  in  con- 
sequence would  not  scruple  to  execute  any  orders  with  regard  to  an 
Egyptian  that  the  princes  of  Egypt  might  give  them. 

'  The  ancient  value  reckoned  in  modern  values  represents  92  kilograms 
of  silver  (cf.  p.  124,  note  1). 

^  It  appears  that  we  should  regard  this  part  of  the  sentence  as  an 
emphatic  expression  of  the  confidence  placed  by  the  prince  of  Byblos  in 
his  own  powers.  He  is  no  servant  of  Egypt,  and  in  consequence  he  is  not 
a  servant  of  Amon,  and  Amon  has  no  power  over  the  territory  occupied  by 
him.  If  he  calls  to  the  cedars  of  Lebanon  to  come  to  the  sea,  the  heaven 
opens,  and  the  trees,  uprooted  by  the  god  of  the  country,  fall  of  themselves 
on  to  t      sea-shore. 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OF  SYRIA    211 

cords  be  shown  me  that  thou  bringest  to  bind  the  beams  that 
I  will  cut  for  thee  as  gifts.  If  I  do  not  make  the  cords  for 
thee,  if  I  do  not  make  the  sails  of  thy  vessels,  the  fashioning 
of  the  bows  and  stern  are  heavy,  they  will  be  broken,'  and 
thou  wilt  die  in  the  midst  of  the  sea;^  for  Amon  thunders, 
and  he  unchains  Sutekhu  in  his  time.^  Now,  Amon  watches 
over  all  countries.  Above  all,  he  rules  the  land  of  Egypt, 
whence  thou  comest,  and  perfection  issues  thence  to  reach 
the  country  where  I  am.  What  are  then  these  mad  journeys 
they  have  caused  thee  to  take  ?  "  * 

I  said  to  him,  "  A  lie !  There  are  no  mad  journeys  for 
those  to  whom  I  belong.  There  are  no  vessels  on  the  Nile 
which  do  not  belong  to  Amon ;  the  sea  is  his,  and  the  trees 
of  Lebanon  are  his,  of  which  thou  sayest,  "  They  are  mine," 

'  The  Egyptian  sea-going  vessels  had  two  points  that  curved  inwards,  one 
at  the  prow  and  one  at  the  stern.  These  were  raised  above  the  water,  and 
were  generally  adorned  with  the  heads  of  divinities,  men,  or  animals. 
These  two  extremities  were  supported  by  cords  which,  attached  to  the 
prow,  passed  over  spars  fixed  along  the  axis  of  the  bridge  and  were  fastened 
to  the  poop  at  the  height  of  the  rudder.  The  force  of  the  wind  and  waves 
greatly  strained  these  outlying  portions,  and  continually  threatened  to 
carry  them  off ;  should  they  succeed  in  doing  so  the  vessel  would  inevitably 
founder. 

'  The  lacunffi  that  occur  in  lines  16  and  17  of  the  text  render  the  meaning 
uncertain ;  this,  however,  is  how  I  understand  it.  After  having  said  to 
Unamunu  that  he  was  independent  of  him  and  of  Amon,  Zikarbal  wished 
to  show  that  he  could  do  more  for  Unamunu  than  Unamunu  could  do  for 
him.  He  demands  of  Unamunu  to  show  him  the  sails  and  cordage  of  the 
vessels  that  are  to  carry  the  wood,  and  he  finds  them  insufficient ;  if  he, 
Zikarbal,  does,  not  give  him  stronger  ones,  the  vessels  of  Unamunu  will  not 
be  able  to  withstand  storms  and  will  founder  at  sea. 

'  Sutekhu,  of.  p.  U3,  note  4. 

'  The  connection  between  the  end  of  this  speech  and  the  beginning  of 
the  next  one  is  not  evident  at  first  sight.  The  transition  occurs  after  the 
passage  where  Zikarbal  points  out  the  danger  of  death  that  threatens 
Unamunu  during  his  return  :  "  Thy  vessel,  badly  rigged,  will  founder,  and 
thou  wilt  perish  in  the  sea,  for  after  all  the  weather  is  not  always  fine,  but 
at  frequent  intervals  Amon  makes  it  to  thunder,  and  gives  free  course  to 
Sutekhu,  the  storm  god.  For  Amon,  if  he  watches  over  all  countries, 
watches  principally  over  Egypt,  and  he  has  given  more  wisdom  to  it  than 
to  other  nations.  How  does  it  happen  that  the  sovereign  of  so  wise  a 
country  commanded  such  a  foolish  journey  for  Unamunu  as  that  which  had 
brought  him  to  Byblos  ? " 


212  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

but  which  are  the  property  of  the  bark  Amanusihalt,  queen 
of  barks.  Alack !  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  spake,  saying 
to  Hrihoru,  my  lord,  '  Send  me.' '  And  he  sent  me  with 
this  great  god.  Now  behold,  thou  hast  caused  this  great 
god  to  dwell  for  twenty-nine  days  since  he  arrived  at  thy  port, 
without  knowing  whether  he  was  there  or  not ;  and  is  it  not 
he  who  is  there,  whilst  thou  dost  bargain  about  the  cedars  of 
Lebanon  with  Amon,  their  owner  ?  And  when  thou  sayest, 
'  The  kings  of  former  times  sent  silver  and  gold,'  in  truth, 
if  they  had  sent  life  and  health,  they  would  not  have  sent 
material  presents  ;  but  they  sent  material  presents,  instead 
of  life  and  health,  to  thy  fathers.  But  Amonra,  king  of  the 
gods,  it  is  he  who  is  lord  of  life  and  health,  it  is  he  who  was 
the  lord  of  thy  fathers,  and  they  passed  their  lifetime  in 
sacrificing  to  Amon.  Thou  thyself,  thou  art  a  good  follower 
of  Amon,  If  thou  sayest,  'I  will  do  it,  I  will  do  it,'  to 
Amon,  and  thou  dost  execute  his  order,  thou  wilt  live,  thou 
wilt  be  safe,  thou  wilt  be  in  health,  thou  wilt  be  a  blessing 
to  the  whole  of  thy  country  and  to  thy  people.  But  covet 
not  the  things  of  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  for  the  lion 
loves  his  own.^  And  now,  cause  my  scribe  to  come  to  me, 
that  I  may  send  him  to  Smendes  and  Tantamanu,  the  pro- 
tectors whom  Amon  has  placed  in  the  north  of  his  country, 
that  they  may  cause  to  be  brought  all  of  which  I  say,  '  Let 
it  be  brought,'  before  I  return  to  the  south  and  despatch 
thy  miserable  remnants,  all,  all."  Thus  I  spake  to  him.  I 
gave  my  letter  to  his  messenger ;  he  placed  on  a  vessel  the 

'  I.e.  Send  a  statue  of  Amon  with  Unamunn,  which  would  contain 
some  of  the  power  of  Amon,  and  would  be  the  divine  ambassador  by 
the  side  of  the  human  ambassador.  It  is  the  statue  of  Amon  of  the 
Road  who  is  referred  to  immediately  afterwards,  when  Unamunu  says, 
"  Hrihoru  sent  me  with  this  great  god  "  (cf.  p.  176,  note  i,  the  two  Khonsus, 
and  the  envoy  to  Bakhtan  that  one  of  them  makes  of  the  animated 
statue  of  the  other). 

^  In  other  words,  "  Give  the  wood  to  Amon  gratuitously  and  do  not  ask 
him  to  pay  thee  ;  for  Amon  is  a  lion,  and  the  lion  likes  not  to  be  deprived 
of  his  prey."    The  sentence  is  probably  a  well-known  proverb. 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OF  SYRIA    2l3 

bridge,  the  head  of  the  bows,  the  head  of  the  stem,'  and  four 
other  beams  shaped  with  a  hatchet,  seven  pieces  in  all,  and 
he  sent  them  to  Egypt. 

His  messenger  went  to  Egypt,  and  he  returned  to  me  in 
Syria  in  the  first  month  of  winter.  Smendes  and  Tantamanu 
sent  four  jugs  and  a  basin  of  gold,  five  jugs  of  silver,  ten 
pieces  of  royal  linen  for  ten  cloaks,  five  hundred  roUs  of 
fine  papyrus,  five  hundred  ox-hides,  five  hundred  cords, 
twenty  sacks  of  lentils,  and  thirty  bales  of  dried  fish ;  and 
Tantamanu  sent  me  five  pieces  of  royal  linen  for  five 
cloaks,  a  sack  of  lentils,  five  bales  of  dried  fish.  The  prince 
rejoiced,  he  levied  three  hundred  men  and  three  hundred 
oxen,  he  put  officers  at  their  head  to  cut  down  the  trees  ; 
they  felled  them,  and  the  trees  lay  on  the  ground  all  the 
winter ;  then  in  the  third  month  of  the  Harvest  they  were 
brought  to  the  sea-coast.  The  prince  came  out,  he  stood 
near  them,  he  said  to  me,  "  Come."  As  I  came  near  him, 
the  shadow  of  his  umbrella  ^  fell  on  me,  and  Penamanu,  one 
of  the  familiar  friends  who  were  with  him,  placed  himself 
between  the  prince  and  me,  saying,  "  The  shadow  of  Pharaoh, 
1.  h.  s.,  thy  master,  falls  on  thee."  '  But  the  prince  was  angry 
with  him,  and  said  to  him,  "  Let  be  !  "  I  went  up  to  him, 
and  he  spake  to  me,  saying,  "  Lo,  the  commission  that  my 
father   executed  of  old,  I  have  executed  myself   also,  even 

'  The  bark  of  Amon  had  rams'  heads  at  the  prow  and  stern ;  it  is  the 
baulks  of  wood  intended  for  these  two  heads  that  Zikarbal  sends  as  a  pre- 
liminary present,  to  arouse  the  generosity  of  Hrihoru  and  Smendes. 

^  This  is  an  umbrella  similar  to  that  one  sees  figured  in  Assyrian  bas- 
reliefs,  and  which  is  held  above  the  head  of  the  king  by  a  eunnoh  or  an 
officer  standing  behind  him. 

'  The  meaning  of  this  remark,  which  was  clear  to  an  Egyptian,  is  not 
clear  to  us.  I  think  it  is  founded  on  the  idea  prevalent  in  the  East,  that 
every  person  on  whom  the  shadow  of  a  powerful  being  falls,  whether  of  a 
god,  a  genius,  or  a  king,  is  under  the  protection  and  also  under  the 
authority  of  that  being.  Penamtou,  seeing  the  shadow  of  the  umbrella  of 
the  prince  of  By  bios  fall  onXJnamanu.said  to  him  jeeringly  that  thethadow 
of  his  Pharaoh  falls  on  him — that  is,  in  other  words,  that  henceforth  his 
Pharaoh  and  his  master  will  be  no  other  than  the  prince  of  Byblos,  whose 
shadow  falls  on  him. 
19 


214  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

though  thou  hast  not  done  for  me  what  thy  fathers  did. 
Now  do  thou  behold !      Thy  wood  has  arrived  to  the  last 
piece,  and  it  is  there ;  do  now  according  to  thy  heart  and 
come   to  lade  it,   for   is   it    not  to  thee  that  it  is   given  ? 
Nevertheless  do  not  come  to  contemplate  the  terrors  of  the 
sea,  or  if  thou  dost  contemplate  the  terrors  of  the  sea,  con- 
template also   mine  own.^     Alas  !  I  have  not  had  done  to 
thee  that  which  was  done  to  the  envoys  of  Khamois,^  who 
dwelt  seventeen  years  in  this  country  and  died  here."     He 
said  to  his  intimate,  "  Take  him  to  see  their  tomb  in  which 
they  are  laid."    I  said,  "  Do  not  cause  me  to  see  it.    Khamols, 
the  men  he  sent  as  ambassadors  were  only  people  of  his 
household  ;  there  was  not  a  god  as  one  of  his  ambassadors. 
Notwithstanding  thou  sayest  to  me  '  Hasten,  see  thy  peers.' ' 
Why  dost  thou  not  rather  rejoice,  and  cause  a  stela  to  be 
erected  on  which  thou  shalt  say,   '  Amonba,  King  of  the 
Gods,  sent  Amon-of-the-Eoad  to  me  as  his  divine  ambas- 
sador, WITH   UnAMUND   as   his   HUMAN  AMBASSADOR   FOR  WOOD 
FOR   THE  VERY    AUGUST    BARK    OF  AmONRA,  KING    OF    THE    GODS. 
I    FELLED    IT,    I    LOADED   IT,    I    SUPPLIED     MY   VESSELS    AND     MY 
CREWS   AND    I   SENT   IT   TO     EGYPT,    TO    OBTAIN    TEN   THOUSAND 
YEARS    OF   LIFE  FROM   AmON    MORE   THAN    THOSE    ORDAINED    FOR 

ME :    May    it    be    thus  ! '      When,    after   other    times,    a 
messenger  shall  come  from  the  land  of  Egypt  who  shall 

'  I  think  this  passage  must  be  taken  thus.  After  haying  handed  over 
the  wood  to  Unamunu,  the  prince  of  Byblos,  who  had  not  yet  forgiven  the 
inadequate  nature  of  the  gifts  he  had  received,  adds,  "  And  now  depart 
quickly,  even  if  the  weather  is  bad  ;  and  if  thou  dost  allow  thyself  to  con- 
sider the  rage  of  the  sea  when  thou  art  starting,  think  that  my  wrath  may 
be  still  worse  than  that  of  the  sea,  and  that  thou  mayest  run  the  risk  of 
meeting  with  the  same  fate  as  the  envoys  of  Khdmols,  whom  1  kept 
prisoners  here  till  their  death. 

^  This  Khamols  is  the  Pharaoh  Ramses  IX,  as  I  have  already  said 
above,  p.  204. 

'  Unamunu  here  develops  the  theme  already  indicated  above  (p.  212), 
that  his  embassy  is  not  an  ordinary  one,  but  that  it  includes  a  god  Amon  oj 
the  Road.  He  complains  therefore  that  the  prince  should  think  of  com- 
paring him  with  the  merely  human  envoys  of  KhSmols,  and  representing 
them  as  on  the  same  footing  with  himself. 


VOYAGE  OF  UNAMUNU  TO  THE  COASTS  OF  SYRIA    216 

understand  the  writing,  when  he  reads  thy  name  on  thy 
stela,  thou  shalt  receive  the  water  of  Amentlt,  like  the  gods 
who  dwell  there." '  He  said,  "  That  which  thou  hast  said  is 
a  great  theme  for  discourse."  I  said  to  him,  "  The  many 
words  thou  hast  said  to  me,  when  I  shall  have  arrived  at  the 
place  where  the  chief  prophet  of  Amon  is,  and  when  he  shall 
have  seen  how  thou  hast  executed  his  commission,  he  will 
cause  gifts  to  be  brought  thee." 

I  went  to  the  sea-shore  where  the  wood  lay,  and  I  per- 
ceived eleven  vessels  that  had  come  in  from  the  sea,  and 
that  belonged  to  the  Zakkala  with  this  mission,  "  Let  him 
be  imprisoned,  and  let  there  be  no  boat  of  his  that  goes 
to  the  land  of  Egypt."  I  sat  down,  I  wept.  The  secretary 
of  the  prince  came  ;  he  said  to  me,  "  What  is  the  matter  ?  " 
I  said  to  him,  "  Dost  thou  not  see  the  herons  that  go  down 
to  Egypt  ?  Behold  then,  they  return  to  fresh  waters ;  but 
alas  !  how  long  shall  I  remain  abandoned  ?  For  seest  thou 
not  yonder  those  who  come  to  imprison  me  again  ?  "  He 
went,  he  spake  to  the  prince ;  the  prince  wept  because  of 
the  woeful  words  that  were  spoken  to  him.  He  sent  his 
secretary,  who  brought  me  two  amphorae  of  wine  and  a 
sheep,  and  he  caused  Tantanuit,  a  girl-singer  of  Egypt  who 
was  with  him,  to  be  brought  to  me,  saying,  "  Sing  to  him, 
that  his  heart  may  make  pleasant  fancies."  And  he  sent 
to  me,  saying,  "  Eat,  drink,  that  thy  heart  may  not  make 
fancies.  Thou  shalt  hear  all  that  I  have  to  say  to-morrow 
morning."  When  it  was  morning,  he  sent  for  his  people 
to  the  mooring-place ;  he  stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and 
he  said  to  the  Zakkala,  "  What  is  your  manner  of  coming  ?  " 
They  said  to  him,  "  We  are  come  in  pursuit  of  those  broken 
vessels  that  thou  art  sending  to  Egypt  with  thy  accursed 
comrades."     He  said  to  them,  "  I  cannot  hold  the  messenger 

'  As  a  recompense  for  the  service  rendered  by  the  prince,  his  double 
shall  have  the  libations  of  fresh  vpater  that  the  blessed  enjoy  in  Hades. 
Cf.  p.  10,  note  1. 


216  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

of  Amon  captive   in  my  country.     Let   me  send  him  off, 
and  then  hasten  after  him  to  take  him  prisoner." 

He  let  me  embark,  he  sent  me  off ;  I  left  the  seaport,  and 
the  wind  drove  me  on  to  Alasia.^  They  of  the  city  came 
out  against  me  to  kill  me,  and  I  was  dragged  in  the  midst 
of  them  to  the  place  where  was  Hatibi,  the  princess  of  the 
city.  I  found  her  coming  out  of  oije  of  her  dwellings  and 
entering  another.  I  implored  her,  saying  to  the  people 
standing  near  her,  "  Is  there  not  one  among  you  who  under- 
stands the  language  of  Egypt  ? "  One  of  them  said,  "  I 
understand  it."  I  said  to  him,  "  Say  to  the  Lady,  '  I  have 
heard  it  said  even  in  the  city  of  Thebes  and  in  the  place 
where  Amon  is,  "If  injustice  is  done  in  every  city,  justice 
is  done  in  the  country  of  Alasia,"  yet  behold  injustice  is 
done  here  every  day.' "  She  said,  "  Alas !  what  is  it  thou 
sayest  ? "  I  said  to  her,  "  Now  that  the  sea  has  become 
furious,  and  the  wind  has  thrown  me  on  the  land  where 
thou  art,  dost  thou  not  permit  me  to  be  brought  before 
thee  to  be  slain  ?  Now  I  am  a  messenger  of  Amon.  Verily, 
behold,  I  shall  be  sought  for  to  the  end  of  time.^  And  as 
to  this  crew  of  the  prince  of  Byblos  which  they  seek  to  slay, 
if  their  lord  finds  afterwards  ten  of  thy  crews,  will  he  not 
slay  them  as  a  reprisal  ?  "  She  caused  her  people  to  be 
assembled ;  they  were  arrested,  and  she  said  to  me,  "  Go 
rest.  .  .  ." 

'  For  the  site  of  the  country  of  Alasia  see  above,  p.  204. 
'  It  is  the  same  argument  already  employed  by  Unamunu  before  the 
prince.     Cf.  above,  p.  209. 


THE   CYCLE  OF  PETUBASTIS 


THE    HIGH    EMPRISE    FOR   THE    CUIRASS 

As  I  have  said  in  the  Introduction  (pp.  xzxviii-xxxix),  we  now  possess 
two  romances  that  belong  to  the  cycle  of  Petubastis.  The  first  of  the 
two,  which  I  have  called  The  High  Emprise  for  the  Cuirass,  is  con- 
tained in  one  of  the  manuscripts  of  the  Archduke  R^gnier  ;  the 
fragments  of  it  were  among  a  mass  of  scraps  bought  at  Dimeh, 
in  the  Fayftm,  at  the  north-eastern  point  of  the  Birket  Kariln. 
Scattered  among  several  hundred  original  documents  of  that  locality, 
covering  a  period  of  about  three  hundred  years,  from  the  second 
century  B.C.  to  the  second  century  A.D.,  were  forty-four  pieces  of 
varying  sizes  that  belonged  to  one  demotic  papyrus.  Krall  at  once 
recognised  that  they  formed  part  of  a  literary  composition — an  his- 
torical romance  as  it  then  appeared — and  he  applied  himself  to 
studying  it,  putting  other  things  aside.  Many  of  the  pieces  declined 
to  fit  into  place,  but  the  greater  number  were  finally  arranged  into 
three  large  pieces,  the  first  of  which  measured  1  m.  88  in  length,  the 
second  79  centimetres,  and  the  third  66  centimetres  and  28  centi- 
metres high.  The  first  of  these  pieces,  which  is  composed  of  eight 
fragments,  contained  the  remains  of  eight  columns,  of  32,  33,  34,  36, 
and  38  lines  apiece  ;  the  second  and  the  third  contained  five  and  four 
columns,  more  or  less  mutilated.  The  twenty-three  smaller  frag- 
ments appeared  to  arrange  themselves  into  five  different  columns, 
so  that  the  entire  volume  must  originally  have  consisted  of  twenty- 
two  columns  at  least,  containing  more  than  seven  hundred  lines,  and 
extending  to  a  length  of  about  six  metres.  None  of  the  stories 
known  up  to  the  present  have  attained  such  dimensions,  and  yet  the 
work  is  incomplete.  We  possess  the  second  half  without  gaps  of 
any  importance,  but  a  large  part  of  the  commencement  is  stiU 
missing.  When  Krall  arrived  at  this  point  he  considered  the  time 
had  come  to  announce  his  discovery.  He  did  so  at  Geneva  in 
September  1894,  at  a  meeting  of  the  Congress  of  Orientalists  ;  but 
three  years  passed  before  a  published  memoir  appeared  to  confirm 
the  hopes  that  his  verbal  communication  had  raised.     He  published 

217 


218  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

it  under  the  title  Ein  ntuer  historischer  Roman  in  Demotischer 
Schrift,  von  Jakob  Krall,  in  the  Mitteilungen  aus  der  Sammlung  der 
Papyrus  Erzherzog  Hainer,  1897,  4to,  vol.  vi,  pp.  19-80.  (Published 
separately,  62  pp.). 

Properly  speaking,  this  was  only  a  detailed  analysis  of  the  text, 
accompanied  by  numerous  notes,  in  which  sentences  difficult  of 
translation  were  reproduced.  Such  as  it  was,  this  first  memoir  was 
sufficient  to  show  us  the  original  character  of  the  book.  It  was  a 
real  chanson  de  geste,  a  song  of  heroic  achievements,  the  exploits 
of  Pemu  the  Small,  which  presents  us  with  a  vivid  picture  of  the 
customs  of  the  Egyptian  feudal  lords  at  the  time  of  the  Assyrian 
invasions.  The  principal  points  in  it  were  discussed  by  G.  Maspero, 
Un  Nouvemi  Conte  egyptien,  in  the  Journal  des  Savants,  1898, 
pp.  649-659  and  717-731. 

Meanwhile,  in  sorting  out  the  smallest  fragments  of  the  Archduke's 
collection,  Krall  discovered  a  number  of  other  minute  pieces  that 
had  become  detached  from  the  original  manuscript,  which  finally 
brought  up  the  number  of  small  fragments  to  eighty-two.  He  then 
decided  to  publish  the  large  pieces  (J.  Krall,  Demotische  Lesestiicke, 
part  2,  1903,  plates  10-22) :  and  then  to  give  a  translation  of  all  the 
fragments,  large  and  small,  provisional  on  some  points,  but  complete  : 
J.  Krall,  Der  demotische  Roman  aus  der  Zeit  des  Konigs  Petu- 
bastis,  in  the  Wiener  Zeitschrift  fiir  die  Kunde  des  Morgenlandes, 
1902,  8vo,  vol.  xvii.     (Published  separately,  38  pp.  8vo). 

The  discovery  of  the  small  fragments  has  not  seriously  modified 
the  first  restoration  that  Krall  made  for  the  whole  of  the  romance. 
The  order  of  the  three  large  pieces  has  been  exactly  verified,  but  the 
smaller  pieces  have  had  to  be  divided  between  nine  columns  instead 
of  five,  and  rather  a  large  number  of  them  come  from  the  first 
pages ;  many  are  unpublished.  Krall's  text,  the  only  one  we  have 
at  our  disposal,  furnished  Revillout  with  a  reading  for  beginners, 
and  a  partial  translation  :  E.  Revillout,  Le  Roi  Petibastit  II  et  le 
roman  qui  parte  son  nom,  in  the  Revue  egyptologique,  1905,  vol.  xi, 
pp.  115-173,  and  1908,  vol.  xii,  pp.  8-59. 

A  transcription  into  Roman  characters  and  a  German  transla- 
tion will  be  found  in  :  W.  Spiegelberg,  der  Sagenkreis  des  Konigs 
Petubastis,  4to,  Leipzig,  1910,  pp.  43-75. 

The  translation  I  give  here  has  been  made  from  the  actual  text 
where  it  has  been  published,  and  from  Krall's  second  translation  for 
the  unpublished  portions.  The  author's  language  is  simple,  clear, 
and  very  similar  to  that  of  the  first  romance  of  Satni  Khamois, 
formed  generally  of  short  sentences  :  a  good  work  to  put  into  the 
hands  of  beginners.  A  certain  movement  and  warmth  of  style 
can  be  recognised  in  it  —  a  noticeable  feeling  for  description  and 
ability  to  depict  some  features  in  the  character  of  the  principal 
heroes.  The  beginning  is  missing,  but  the  general  bearing  of  it  can 
be  restored  without  difficulty.      At  the  time  when  the  Pharaoh 


THE   HIGH   EMPRISE  FOR  THE   CUIRASS        219 

Petubastis  reigned  at  Tanis,  the  whole  country  was  divided  between 
two  rival  factions,  one  of  which  had  as  leader  the  great  lord  of 
Amon  in  Thebes — perhaps  in  this  case  the  Thebes  of  the  Delta, 
now  Ibshftn,  with  which  the  author  has  confused  the  Thebes  of  the 
Said  either  involuntarily  or  intentionally — while  the  other  obeyed 
the  King-priest  of  Heliopolis,  Eiernharer6u-Inar6s,  and  his  ally 
Pakrfir,  prince  of  Pisapdi,  the  great  chieftain  of  the  East.  The 
great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  was  only  supported  by  four  nomes  in 
the  centre  of  the  Delta,  but  the  four  most  weighty  nomes,  as  the 
text  says  (p.  241),  those  of  Tanis,  Mendes,  Tahait,  and  Sebennytos. 
Inar6s,  on  the  contrary,  had  succeeded  in  establishing  his  children 
or  his  relations  in  most  of  the  other  nomes,  and  also  he  possessed 
a  sort  of  talisman,  a  cuirass  which  he  valued  greatly,  perhaps  one  of 
those  iron  or  brass  cuirasses  which  play  a  part  in  the  Saite  and 
Memphite  legend  of  the  Dodecarchy  {Herodotus  II,  clii).  When  he 
died  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  profited  by  the  unrest 
among  the  Heliopolitans  caused  by  their  mourning  to  take  pos- 
session of  the  cuirass,  and  to  place  it  in  one  of  his  fortresses.  When 
Prince  Pemu,  the  heir  of  Inar6s,  heard  of  this  he  despatched  a 
messenger  to  the  robber  to  summon  him  to  return  the  talisman.  The 
great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  refused,  and  the  part  of  the  romance 
still  preserved  begins  with  the  scene  of  the  refusal. 

I  have  followed  the  text  as  closely  as  was  possible  for  me  to  do 
in  the  mutilated  condition  in  which  it  has  reached  us.  When  the 
restitution  of  missing  words  or  parts  of  sentences  came  naturally, 
I  did  not  hesitate  to  accept  them  ;  but  frequently,  when  the  gaps 
were  serious,  I  compressed  into  two  or  three  sentences  the  subject  of 
several  lines.  It  is  therefore  less  a  translation  than  a  free  adaptation, 
and  in  many  places  the  reader  will  find  the  general  sense  rather  than 
the  actual  letter  of  the  Egyptian  narrative.  At  present  I  can  do  no 
more  than  this. 

"  I  AM  not  the  first  who  has  come  to  him  on  this  subject. 
It  is  he  who  carried  it  off  to  the  fortress  of  Zauiphre,^  his 
city,  at  first,  after  he  had  taken  the  armour  out  of  their 
hands,  and  had  taken  it  out  of  their  houses  without  any 
one  in  the  world  perceiving  it.  He  has  taken  it  to  his  own 
city,  that  I  gave  him  in  the  district  near  the  superintendent 
of  the  flocks  of  Sakhmi."  ^    All  the  words  that  his  young 

'  The  reading  of  this  name  is  uncertain,  although  it  often  occurs  in  the 
text.  Translated  it  means  tlte  city  of  the  tioins  of  the  Sun,  Shu  and  Tafnit, 
and  it  is  the  name  of  a  place  situated  on  an  island  in  the  nome  of  Mendes 
(cf.  pp.  222,  227). 

2  Sakhmi  is  the  name  of  the  ancient  city  of  Latopolis,  now  Usslm,  some 
distance  to  the  north-west  of  Cairo, 


220  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

servant  spake  before  him  he  repeated  to  Pharaoh,  and  he 
spent  two  days  in  telling  them  to  Petubastis  without 
missing  any  word  in  the  world.  Pemu  said  to  him,  "  Sorrow 
of  heart  be  to  Zauiphre  !  Hast  thou  not  carried  off  that 
cuirass  to  thy  place  ?  Hast  thou  not  stretched  out  thine 
hand  to  the  cuirass  of  the  prince  Inaros,^  to  carry  it  away 
to  Zauiphre,  thy  city,  and  hast  thou  not  concealed  it,  in 
order  tiot  to  restore  it  to  its  former  place  ?  Hast  thou  not 
acted  in  this  manner  because  of  thy  confidence  in  th}' 
strength  or  because  thy  family  is  well  versed  in  the  teaching 
of  the  soldier  ?  "  ^  The  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  said 
to  him,  "  By  Horus  !  I  will  not  give  thee  back  this  cuirass 
without  a  fight.  Does  not  my  family  know  the  teaching 
of  the  soldier  ?  "  They  went  away  to  prepare  for  war,  each 
to  his  own  place,^  then  Pemu  the  Small  embarked  in  his 
yacht,  and  having  sailed  on  the  river  during  the  night,  he 
arrived  at  Tanis  to  notify  to  the  king  that  which  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  had  done. 

Pharaoh  Petubastis  summoned  them  before  him — the 
prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  and  Pemu  the  Small,  saying, 
"Let  them  prostrate  themselves  on  their  bellies  in  our 
presence,  and  let  them  drag  themselves  thus  before  us." 
The  sergeants,  the  heralds,  and  the  masters  of  ceremonies 
said,  "  Let  them  come  to  the  Pavilion  of  audience."  The 
prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said :  "  Is  that  indeed  good  that 
the  great  lord  of  Amon  of  Thebes  hath  done  in  covering 
the  prince  Inaros  with  insults  while  he  had  his  face  turned 
towards   his   servants  ? "      When    Pharaoh    had    heard    his 

■  For  the  reading  of  the  Egyptian  name  Inaros,  see  what  is  said  above, 
Introdu.otion,  xxxv,  note  1,  and  p.  117,  note  1. 

^  This  expression  the  teaching  of  the  soldier,  which  occurs  several  times 
in  the  text,  appears  to  mean  ability  for  the  military  profession,  either  in 
the  management  of  weapons  in  fencing,  or  in  leading  troops,  in  strategy. 
Elsewhere  (p.  240),  to  do  the  teaching  of  the  soldier  signifies  to  fight 
according  to  rules,  or  simply  to  fight,  to  make  a  thrust. 

'  This  sentence  corresponds  to  fifteen  lines  of  text,  which  are  too  much 
damaged  to  permit  of  restoration. 


THE   HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  CUIRASS        221 

voice,  Pharaoli  said,  "  Chiefs  of  the  East,  Pakrur  and  Pemu 
the  Small,  be  not  grieved  in  your  hearts  on  account  of  the 
words  he  has  uttered.  By  the  life  of  Amonra,  lord  of 
Diospolis,  king  of  the  gods,  the  great  god  of  Tanis,  I  say 
to  thee  again,  I  will  give  a  great  and  fine  burial  for  prince 
Inaros."  As  soon  as  Pemu  heard  these  words,  he  said, 
"  Pharaoh,  my  great  Lord,  the  words  thou  hast  pronounced 
are  as  balm  for  the  people  of  Mendes  who  will  escape  my 
vengeance.  By  Atumu,  lord  of  Heliopolis,  by  Ea-Horus- 
Khoprui-Maruiti,  the  great  god,  my  god,  let  him  assemble 
the  men  of  Egypt  who  are  subject  to  him,  and  I  will  return 
him  the  blow  he  has  dealt  me."  ^  Pharaoh  said  :  "  My  son 
Pemu,  do  not  leave  the  paths  of  wisdom,  so  that  disasters 
may  arise  in  my  time  in  Egypt."  Pemu  bowed  his  head 
and  his  face  became  sad.  The  king  said  :  "  Oh  scribe,  let 
messengers  be  sent  to  all  the  nomes  of  Egypt,  from 
Elephantine  to  Suanu,^  to  say  to  the  princes  of  the  nomes, 
"  Bring  your  lectors,'  and  your  tarichutes  of  the  Divine  House, 
your  funerary  bandages,  your  perfumes  of  the  city  of 
Busiris-Mendes,  in  order  that  all  that  is  prescribed  for 
Hapis,  for  Mnevis,  for  Pharaoh  the  king  of  the  gods,  may 
be  done,  celebrating  all  the  rites  in  honour  of  Prince  Inaros, 
according  to  that  which  His  Majesty  has  commanded." 
And  when  the  time  was  accomplished,  the  country  of  the 
South  was  forward,  the  country  of  the  North  hastened,  the 
West  and  the  East  ran,  and  they  all  assembled  at  Busiris- 
Mendes.  Then  the  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said, 
"My  son  Pemu,  see  the  people  of  the  nomes  of  the  east, 

'  Pemu,  realising  that  Pharaoh's  intentions  are  pacific,  becomes  indignant, 
and  demands  that  the  quarrel  shall  be  settled  by  combat. 

''  The  name  SuElnu  is  that  borne  by  Assuau  in  antiquity,  but  here  it  is 
applied  to  a.  city  of  the  Delta,  and  Spiegelberg,  identifying  it  with  the 
Biblical  name  Sin  (Ezekiel  xxx.  15),  conjectures  that  it  signifies  Pelusium. 
To  express  the  same  idea,  the  Egyptians  of  the  Pharaonic  age  used  the 
expression,  frovi  Elfplumtiiie  to  Nafho.  Perhaps  Suanu,  which  takes  the 
place  of  jSTatho,  should  rather  be  sought  in  the  same  latitudes  as  the  latter. 

'  For  lectors  see  above,  p,  24,  note  2, 


222  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

how  they  prepare  their  funerary  bandages,  their  perfumes, 
their  tarichutes  of  the  Divine  House,  their  chief  magicians 
and  their  assistants  who  come  to  the  laboratory.  How  they 
assemble  at  Busiris,  how  they  take  the  body  of  the  dead 
king  Inaros  into  the  hall  of  embalmment,  how  they  embalm 
him  and  wrap  him  in  the  most  sumptuous  and  beautiful 
wrappiags,  such  as  is  done  for  Hapis  and  for  Pharaoh,  king 
of  the  gods.  Let  him  be  served  thus  and  laid  in  his  tomb 
on  the  par\'ise  of  Busiris-Mendes."'  ^  After  that,  Pharaoh 
sent  away  the  host  of  Egypt  to  their  nomes  and  their 
cities. 

Then  Pemu  said  to  the  great  prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur, 
"My  father,  can  I  return  to  Heliopolis,  my  nome,  and 
there  celebrate  a  festival,  while  the  cuirass  of  my  father 
Inaros  remains  on  the  island  of  Mendes,  at  Zauiphre  ? " 
The  great  prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said,  "  These  were 
great  words  of  thine,  oh  Supditi,  god  of  the  East,^  when 
thou  saidst,  '  Thou  goest  contrary  to  the  will  of  my  prophet, 
Inaros,  if  thou  canst  return  to  Heliopolis  without  our 
bringing  the  cuirass  with  us.' "  The  two  lords  embarked 
on  a  yacht,  they  sailed  until  they  arrived  at  Tanis,  they 
hastened  to  the  pavilion  of  audience  before  the  king. 
When  the  king  perceived  the  princes  of  the  East,  Pakrur 
and  Pemu  and  their  host,  his  heart  was  troubled,  and  he  said 
to  them,  "  What  is  this,  my  lords  ?  Did  I  not  send  you  to 
your  nomes,  to  your  cities,  and  to  your  noble  men,  to  celebrate 
a  great  and  fine  funeral  in  honour  of  my  prophet  Inaros  ? 
What  then  is  this  troublesome  conduct  of  yours  ? "     The 

'  This  passage  appears  to  show  that  at  Busiris-Mendes  the  princes  were 
interred  in  the  town  itself,  in  the  temple  of  Osiris.  At  Sais  also 
(^Herodotus  II,  clxix),  they  were  buried  in  the  temple  of  Neith.  This 
may  have  been  the  case  throughout  the  Delta  ;  the  distance  from  the  two 
chains  of  mountains  would  not  admit  of  cemeteries  being  established  on 
the  edge  of  the  desert,  as  was  done  in  the  valley. 

-  Supditi,  otherwise  Supdu  (of.  p.  88,  note  3)  the  god  of  the  East,  is 
Pakr<lr's  god.  He  is  usually  represented  as  a  sparrow-hawk,  crouching,  and 
with  a  headdress  of  two  feathers. 


THE   HIGH  EMPRISE   FOR  THE  CUIRASS        223 

great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said,  "  My  great  lord,  can 
we  then  return  to  Heliopolis  without  taking  back  with  us, 
into  our  nomes  and  into  our  cities,  the  cuirass  of  the  prince 
Inaros,  that  which  is  a  disgrace  for  us  in  the  whole  of 
Egypt  ?  Can  we  celebrate  the  funerary  feasts  for  him 
while  his  cuirass  is  in  the  fortress  of  Zaulphre,  and  we 
have  not  brought  it  back  to  its  former  place  in  Heliopolis  ?  " 
Pharaoh  said,  "Oh  scribe,  write  the  message  of  my 
command  to  the  fortress  of  Zauiphre,  to  the  great  lord 
of  Amon  in  Thebes,  saying,  '  Do  not  delay  to  come  to 
Tanis  for  a  certain  matter  that  I  desire  thee  to  do.' " 
The  scribe  closed  up  the  letter,  he  sealed  it,  he  placed 
it  in  the  hands  of  a  man  of  colour,  who  did  not  delay  to 
go  to  Zauiphre ;  he  gave  the  despatch  into  the  hands 
of  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  who  read  it  and  did 
not  delay  to  go  to  Tanis,  to  the  place  where  Pharaoh  was. 
Pharaoh  said,  "  Great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  behold  the 
cuirass  of  the  Osiris,  the  King  Inaros,  let  it  be  returned 
to  its  former  place,  let  it  be  taken  back  to  Heliopolis, 
into  the  house  of  Pemu,  to  the  places  whence  thou  hast 
taken  it."  As  soon  'as  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes 
heard  this,  he  bowed  his  head  and  his  face  became  darkened ; 
Pharaoh  spake  to  him  three  times,  but  he  did  not  reply. 

Then  Pemu  advanced  before  Pharaoh  and  said,  "  Negro, 
Ethiopian,  eater  of  gum,"^  is  it  thy  intention,  trusting  in 
thy  power,  to  fight  with  me  before  Pharaoh  ? "  When 
the  army  of  Egypt  heard  these  words  it  said,  "  The  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  desires  war."  Pemu  said,  "  By 
Atumu,  lord  of  Heliopolis,  the  great  god,  my  god,  were 
not  the  command  issued "  and  did  not  the  respect  due  to 
the    king   protect   thee,    I  would   at   once   inflict   on   thee 


'  See  on  this  point  p.  154,  note  1.  This  insult  to  the  great  lord  of  Amon 
is  the  result  of  hatred  of  Thebes  and  its  colonies. 

'  The  king  had  forbidden  (p.  221)  that  there  should  be  any  fighting  in  his 
time. 


224  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT   EGYPT 

the  evil  colour."  ^  The  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes 
said,  "  By  the  life  of  Mendes,  the  great  god,  the  struggle 
that  will  break  out  in  the  nome,  the  war  that  will  burst 
forth  in  the  city,  will  raise  clan  against  clan,  will  cause 
man  to  march  against  man,  on  account  of  the  cuirass, 
before  it  will  be  carried  off  from  the  fortress  of  Zauiphre." 
The  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said  to  Pharaoh,  "  Is 
that  well  that  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  has  done 
and  the  words  that  he  has  spoken,  'Pharaoh  will  see 
which  of  us  is  the  stronger '  ?  I  will  cause  the  shame  of 
their  deeds  and  their  words  to  recoil  on  the  great  lord  of 
Amon  in  Thebes  and  on  the  nome  of  Mendes,  the  words 
that  they  have  spoken,  speaking  of  civil  wars ;  I  will  restrain 
them  from  war,  and  I  will  take  measures  that  battle  and  war 
may  not  prevail  in  Egypt  in  the  days  of  Pharaoh.  But  if  I 
am  authorised  to  do  so,  I  will  show  to  Pharaoh  war  between 
men  of  two  escutcheons.^  Thou  shalt  then  be  witness  of 
what  shall  happen.  Thou  shalt  see  the  mountain  leap  up 
to  the  sky  which  stretches  above  the  earth  and  the  earth 
tremble ;  thou  shalt  see  the  bulls  of  Pisapdi,  the  lions  of 
Metelis,  and  their  manner  of  fighting,  the  sword  become 
drenched  after  we  have  warmed  it  in  blood."  Pharaoh  said, 
''  Nay,  oh  our  father,  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  be 
patient,  and  do  not  disquiet  thyself  farther.  And  now  go 
each  of  you  to  your  nomes  and  your  cities,  and  I  will  cause 
the  cuirass  of  the  deceased  king  Inaros  to  be  taken  and 
brought   back   to   Heliopolis   to    the   place    whence  it  was 


'  Krall  considers  {Der  Demotisclie  Roman,  p.  14)  tbat  the  evil  colour  is 
the  colour  of  death,  the  livid  hue  that  overspreads  the  body  when  life  is 
extinct. 

^  Pakrflr  entering  into  the  good  intentions  of  Pharaoh,  and  yet  wishing 
to  give  satisfaction  to  Pemu,  proposes  a  duel  between  the  "  two  escutcheons," 
i.e.  between  the  two  rival  factions,  each  represented  by  the  arms  of  the 
nome  of  which  their  leader  was  a  native  ;  in  order  to  prevent  civil  war 
spreading  over  the  whole  of  Egypt.  The  rest  of  the  narrative  shows  that 
this  "  suggestion  "  was  not  accepted.  A  combat  in  the  lists  was  decided 
upon,  which  brought  the  forces  of  the  whole  country  into  action. 


THE  HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  CUIRASS        225 

taken,  joy  before  it,  love  behind  it.  If  thou  dost  doubt 
[this]  a  great  war  will  break  out;  [therefore]  act  that 
there  may  be  no  war  in  our  country.  If  it  pleases  you, 
grant  me  five  days,  and  by  the  life  of  Amonra,  the  lord, 
king  of  the  gods,  my  great  god,  after  you  have  returned 
to  your  nomes  and  your  cities,  I  will  cause  the  cuirass 
to  be  returned  to  its  former  place."  Pharaoh  ceased  to 
speak,  he  arose,  he  advanced,  and  Pemu  the  Small  went 
before  Pharaoh  and  said,  "  My  great  lord,  by  Atumu  the 
great  god,  if  the  cuirass  is  given  me  and  I  take  it  to 
Heliopolis,  without  having  carried  it  off  by  force,  then 
the  lances  will  be  at  rest  in  Egypt,  on  that  account.  But 
if  the  army  of  the  Entire  land  returns  to  its  hearths,  I 
shall  march  in  the  name  of  my  prophet  Inaros  and  I  wiU 
take  the  cuirass  away  to  Heliopolis." 

The  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  said,  "  Pharaoh  our  great 
lord — mayest  thou  attain  the  long  life  of  Ea  ! — may  Pharaoh 
command  a  scribe  to  carry  my  voice  into  my  nomes  and  into 
my  cities,  to  my  brothers,  my  companions,  my  charioteers, 
who  are  of  my  clan,  that  they  may  hear  me."  Pharaoh  said : 
"  Come,  let  a  scribe  be  brought."  When  he  had  come,  by 
order  of  Pharaoh,  he  wrote  to  the  people  of  Mendes,'  as  well 
as  to  Takhos,  the  chief  of  the  militia  of  the  nome,  and  to 
Phramooni,  the  son  of  Ankhhoru,  saying,  "  Make  your 
preparations,  you  and  your  men.  Let  them  be  given  food, 
clothing,  and  money  from  the  king's  house,  and  let  them 
receive  command  to  depart.  And  to  him  who  has  no 
weapons  and  no  accoutrements,  let  money  be  given  from 
my  treasury,  so  that  he  may  come  with  me  to  the  lake  of 
the  Gazelle,^  which  will  be  the  landing-place  of  the  priuces, 

'  This  part  of  the  sentence  represents  two  lines  of  text  which  are  too 
much  damaged  to  be  translated.  The  following  ten  lines  are  in  somewhat 
better  condition.  Still  Spiegelberg  has  not  restored  the  context  perfectly 
(JDer  Sagenkreis  des  KSnigs  Petuiastis,  pp.  52-53),  and  I  am  not  sure  that 
I  have  recovered  the  meaning  correctly. 

'  The  expression  employed  to  designate  this  locality  is  rather  long — "  the 


226  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  archons,  the  chiefs  of  militia  in  readiness  for  the  strife 
of  town  against  town,  noma  against  nome,  clan  against  clan, 
which  is  about  to  begin.     Also  that  one  is  sent  to  the  houses 
of  Ankhhoru,  son  of  Harbisa,  prince  of  the  canton  of  Pala- 
khitit.     Also  that  one  is  sent  to  the  houses  of  Teniponi,  son 
of    Uzakau,    prince   of  .  .  ."   Then   the   princes    of    Tanis, 
those  of  Mendes,  those  of  Tahait,  those  of  Sebennytos  sent 
to  fetch  their  armies,  and  Ankhhoru,  son  of  Pharaoh,  sent 
to  his  cities  and  his  children,  the  children  of  Pharaoh,  and 
they   ranged   themselves   before   the   pavilion    of   Pharaoh, 
each   according   his   nomes   and    his   cities.     Thus    was    it 
done.     "When   Pemu   the    Small   heard   the   names    of  the 
princes  and   the   armies   of  the   nomes,   and   the  cities  to 
which  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  had  sent,  he  wept 
like  a  little  child.     The  great  chief  of  the   East,   Pakrur, 
looked  at  him,  and  he  saw  that  his  visage  was  troubled,  and 
that  he  was  sad  in  his  heart,  and  he  said,  "  My  son,  chief 
of  the  militia,  Pemu  the  Small,  be  not  troubled.     When 
they  hear  what  has  happened,  thy  allies  will  join  thee  also." 
The  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said  to  Pharaoh,  "  Cause 
Sunisi,  the  son  of  Uazhor,  the  scribe,  to  be  brought,  that  he 
may  write  an  order  to  our   nomes  and  our  cities,   to  our 
brothers,  to  our  men."     Pharaoh  said,  "  Scribe,  do  all  that 
thou  art  commanded."     The  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur, 
said,  "Scribe."     He  replied,  "At  thy  command,  my  great 
lord."     The  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said,  "  Make 
a  dispatch  for  Harm,  son  of  Petekhonsu,  the  keeper  of  the 
records  of  the  quarters  of  my  city  and  of  the  affairs  of  the 
people  who   dwell   there,    saying,  '  Make   thy   preparations 
with  the  host  of  the  nome  of  the  East.     That  provisions 

lake  of  the  Gazelle,  which  is  the  birkeli  of  the  city  of  the  goddess  Uotlt, 
the  lady  of  the  city  of  Amlt,"  possibly  Tell-Mokdam  of  the  present  day, 
"  which  is  the  Didu  of  Hathor  of  Mafklt,"  a  small  village  situated  in  the 
xixth  nome  of  the  Delta  (cf.  Spiegelberg,  Der  Sagenltreis  des  KSnigs 
Petubastis,  p.  52,  note  2).  To  avoid  undue  length,  I  shall  translate  it 
everywhere  as  "  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle,"  suppressing  the  epithets. 


THE   HIGH   EMPRISE  FOR  THE  CUIRASS  227 

and  clothing  may  be  given  them,  and  to  him  who  has  no 
arms  or  accoutrements  let  them  be  given  him  out  of  my 
treasury,^  and  let  'them  set  forth  on  campaign,  but  let 
them  abstain  from  all  acts  of  violence,  until  I  anchor  in 
the  lake  of  the  Gazelle  for  the  conflict  which  is  about  to 
take  place  nome  against  nome,  and  clan  against  clan,  on 
account  of  Pemu  the  Small,  the  son  of  Inaros,  and  of  the 
cuirass  of  the  prophet,  the  deceased  prince  Inaros,  for  Pemu 
the  Small  is  about  to  fight  with  the  great  lord  of  Amon 
in  Thebes,  about  the  cuirass  of  Inaros  that  he  has  carried 
ofif  to  his  fortress  of  Zauiphre,  which  is  in  the  island  of  the 
nome  of  Mendes.' 

"  Make  another  dispatch  for  the  nome  of  the  East,  for  the 
city  of  Pisapdi,  for  the  chief  of  the  soldiers,  Petekhonsu, 
saying,  '  Make  thy  preparations  as  well  as  thy  host,  thy 
horses,  thy  cattle,  thy  yacht,  and  all  the  men  of  the  East  who 
are  bound  to  follow  thee,  and  this  on  account  of  the  cuirass 
of  the  prophet,  the  deceased  prince  Inaros,  that  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  has  carried  away  into  the  fortress 
of  Zauiphre.  I  will  meet  thee  at  the  lake  of  the  Grazelle 
on  account  of  the  quarrel  which  is  about  to  break  forth.' 

"Make  another  dispatch  for  PhramoonI,  the  son  of 
Zinufi,  prince  of  Pimankhi,^  in  the  terms  indicated  above. 

"Make  another  dispatch  for  the  prince  Minnemei,  the 
son  of  Inaros,  of  Elephantine,  also  for  his  thirty-three  men- 
at-arms,  his  esquires,  his  chaplains,  his  Ethiopian  mercenaries, 
his  foot-soldiers,  his  horses,  his  cattle. 

"  Make  another  dispatch  to  Pemu,  the  son  of  Inaros,  the 
Small,  with  the  strong  hand,  saying,  '  Make  thy  preparations 
with  thy  host,  thy  men-at-arms,  thy  seven  chaplains,'  in 
the  terms  indicated  above. 

'  It  appears  that  the  scribe  has  here  omitted  a  line.  I  give  the  whole  of 
the  formula  as  it  occurs  on  p.  225. 

^  Perhaps  this  town  is  identical  with  one  of  the  same  name  mentioned 
on  a  stela  in  the  quarries  of  Masara  (Spiegelberg,  B6r  Sagenkreis  det 
Konigs  Petubastis,  p.  54,  note  10). 


228  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

"  Make  another  dispatch  to  Busiris,  for  Baklulu,  the  son 
of  Inaros,  saying,  '  Make  thy  preparations  with  thy  host,'  in 
the  terms  mentioned  above. 

"  Make  another  dispatch  to  the  island  of  Heracleopolis,  to 
Ankhhoru  of  the  one  arm,  saying,  '  Make  thy  preparations 
with  thy  host  as  well  as  thy  men-at-arms,'  and  make  another 
order  for  Mendes,  the  son  of  Petekhonsu  and  his  chaplains 
in  the  terms  indicated  above. 

"  Make  another  dispatch  to  Athribis  for  Sukhotes,  the  son 
of  Zinufi,  saying,  '  Make  thy  preparations  with  thy  host  and 
thy  men-at-arms.' 

"  Make  another  dispatch  for  Uiluhni,  the  son  of  Ankhhoru, 
the  prince  of  the  fortress  of  Meitum,  saying,  'Make  thy 
preparations  with  thy  host,  thy  mercenaries,  thy  horses, 
thy  cattle.' 

"And  finally  make  another  dispatch  to  the  great  chief 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  to  his  nomes  and  to  his  cities, 
saying,  '  Make  thy  preparations  for  the  lake  of  the 
Gazelle.' " 

Now,  after  that,  the  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur, 
said,  "My  son  Pemu,  listen  to  the  words  that  the  scribe 
hath  said  for  thee  in  thy  dispatches  to  thy  nomes  and  thy 
cities.  Go  there  speedily,  be  beforehand  with  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  and  be  the  first  with  thy  forces 
at  the  place,  at  the  head  of  thy  brethren  who  are  of  thy 
clan,  so  that  they  may  all  find  thee  waiting;  for  if  they 
do  not  find  thee,  they  will  go  back  to  their  nomes  and 
their  cities.  I  myself  will  go  to  Pisapdi  and  I  will  en- 
courage the  host,  so  that  they  may  not  fail,  and  I  will 
make  them  go  to  the  place  where  thou  wilt  be."  Pemu 
the  Small  said,  "  My  heart  is  satisfied  with  that  thou  hast 
said."  After  that  the  exalted  personages  repaired  to  their 
nomes  and  their  cities.  Pemu  the  Small  set  forth,  he  went 
up  on  a  new  galley  furnished  with  all  good  things ;  the 
galley  descended  the  river,  and,  after  a  certain  time,  Pemu 


THE   HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  CUIRASS        229 

arrived  at  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle,  and  a  place  was  shown 
him  where  he  could  instal  himself  in  privacy. 

Now,  while  all  this  was  happening,  one  came  to  make 
announcement  to  the  chief  of  the  militia,  the  great  lord 
of  Amon  in  Thebes,  saying,  "  Pemu  the  Small  has  arrived 
at  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle ;  he  is  established  there  in 
privacy,  and  he  is  there  alone  with  Zinufi,  his  young  esquire. 
Make,  therefore,  thy  preparations  with  thy  host,  and  let 
it  hasten  to  arm  itself.  Let  the  men  of  Tanis,  of  Mendes, 
of  Tahalt,  and  of  Sebennytos  depart  with  thee,  and  let 
them  arrange  well  with  thee  to  give  battle  to  Pemu  the 
Small.  For  he  has  preceded  thee,  and  there  are  only  two 
feeble  ones  there.  The  nomes  and  the  cities  that  are 
with  thee,  command  them  to  repair  to  the  field  of  battle, 
and  to  attack  him  on  the  south,  on  the  north,  on  the 
east,  on  the  west.  They  shall  not  cease  their  attacks  till 
they  have  taken  his  life.  When  his  brethren  come  and 
hear  of  his  tragic  death,  their  hearts  will  be  broken  within 
them  and  their  strength  will  be  lessened ;  they  will  return 
to  their  cities  and  their  nomes,  nothing  will  hold  back 
their  feet,  and  the  cuirass  of  Inaros  will  never  go  forth 
from  thy  dwellings."  He  said,  "By  the  life  of  Mendes, 
the  great  god,  it  is  good  that  for  this  cause  I  have  sum- 
moned Mendes  and  the  four  nomes  that  are  with  me. 
Let  a  galley  be  armed  for  me."  It  was  armed  immediately, 
and  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  embarked  with  his 
host  and  his  men-at-arms.  Now  it  chanced  that  the  host 
and  the  men-at-arms  of  his  city  were  ready,  and  they 
departed  with  the  bands  of  the  host  of  the  four  nomes. 
In  a  short  time  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  arrived 
at  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle;  he  inquired  immediately  and 
heard  that  Pemu  the  Small  had  arrived  before  him. 

When  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  had  brought 
his  people  to  the  place  where  Pemu  was,  at  the  lake  of 
the  Gazelle,  he  said,  "Let  us  fight  a  duel  for  the  space 
20 


230  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

of  an  hour  until  one  of  us  has  conquered  the  other." 
When  Pemu  heard  these  words,  his  heart  was  troubled 
immediately,  and  he  thought,  "  I  said  to  myself  that  there 
would  be  no  battle  until  my  brethren  had  joined  me,  for 
my  defeat  would  discourage  the  host  of  the  nomes  of  Egypt 
when  they  arrive  here.''  But  the  reply  of  Pemu  was,  "I 
am  ready  for  the  combat."  Zinufi,  his  young  esquire,  wept 
and  said,  "May  my  god  protect  thee,  may  thy  arm  be 
fortunate,  and  may  God  be  merciful  to  thee.  Thou 
knowest  well  that  one  man  alone  among  a  multitude  is 
in  an  evil  situation,  and  that  a  nome  is  lost  if  he  is  alone. 
Shall  I  name  to  thee  the  bands  that  are  here  with  the 
great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  those  of  Tanis,  of  Mendes, 
of  Tahait,  and  of  Sebennytos,  as  well  as  the  exalted 
personages  that  are  with  him  ?  Lo !  thou  enterest  the 
Hsts  with  him,  without  a  single  one  of  thy  clan  with  thee. 
Alas,  if  he  attacks  thee,  without  one  of  the  men-at-arms 
with  thee !  By  Atumu,  an  entire  army  draws  nigh  to  the 
field  of  battle  for  thee,  and  they  will  save  thy  life,  a  great 
life ;  do  not  fling  thyself  to  destruction  by  thy  temerity." 
Pemu  said,  "  My  brother  Zinufi,  all  the  words  thou  hast 
said,  I  have  thought  them  myself.  But  since  matters  are 
such  that  it  is  not  possible  not  to  have  battle  before  my 
brothers  join  me,  I  will  smite  down  the  men  of  Mendes, 
I  will  humiliate  Tanis,  Tahait,  and  Sebennytos,  who  do 
not  reckon  me  among  the  valiant.  As  it  is  thus,  my  brother 
Zinufi,  have  good  courage,  and  let  my  armour  of  a  hoplite 
be  brought  me."  It  was  brought  to  him  immediately  and 
was  handed  to  him  on  a  mat  of  fresh  rushes.  Pemu  stretched 
forth  his  hand  and  grasped  a  shirt  made  of  byssus  of 
many  colours,  and  on  the  front  of  it  was  embroidered 
figures  in  silver,  and  twelve  palms  in  silver  and  gold  adorned 
the  back.  He  again  stretched  forth  his  hand  to  a  second 
shirt  of  linen  of  Byblos  and  of  byssus  from  the  city  of 
Panamhu,  figured   in   gold,  and   he   put   it  on.     He  then 


THE   HIGH   EMPRISE  FOR  THE   CUIRASS        231 

stretched  forth  his  hand  to  a  dyed  coat,  three  and  a  half 
cubits  long  of  fine  wool,  with  a  lining  of  byssus  of  Zalchel, 
and  he  put  it  on.  He  again  stretched  forth  his  hand  to 
his  corselet  of  brass,  which  was  decorated  with  spikes  of 
gold  and  the  four  male  figures  and  the  four  female  figures 
representing  the  gods  of  combat,  and  he  put  it  on.  He 
stretched  forth  his  hand  to  a  greave  of  smelted  gold  and 
fitted  it  on  his  leg,  he  then  grasped  with  his  hand  the 
second  greave  of  gold  and  fitted  it  on  his  leg.  He  fastened 
the  straps,  he  then  placed  his  helmet  on  his  head,  and 
he  went  to  the  place  where  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in 
Thebes  was.' 

This  one  said  to  his  esquire,  "  By  Mendes,  my  young 
squire,  bring  me  my  armour."  It  was  brought  to  him 
immediately,  he  put  it  on,  and  he  delayed  not  to  go  to 
the  place  where  the  contest  should  be.  He  said  to  Pemu, 
"If  thou  art  ready,  let  us  fight  one  against  the  other." 
Pemu  accepted  and  the  contest  began,  but  soon  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  had  the  advantage.^  When  Pemu 
perceived  this  his  heart  was  troubled.  He  signed  with  his 
hand  to  Zinufi,  his  young  esquire,  "  Do  not  delay  to  go 
to  the  port,  and  see  if  our  friends  and  comrades  have  not 
arrived  with  their  host."  Zinufi  started  o£f,^  and  delayed 
not  to  run  to  the  port ;  he  waited  an  hour,  during  that  time 
he  watched  the  top  of  the  bank.  At  last  he  raised  his  face 
and  perceived  a  yacht  painted  black  with  a  white  border, 
equipped  with  seamen  and  rowers,  loaded  with  armed  men, 
and  he  saw  that  they  had  bucklers  of  gold  on  their  planks, 
that  there  was  a  lofty  spur  of  gold  at  the  prow,  that  there 

'  The  text  here  describes  in  twenty-seven  lines  the  shape,  material, 
melal,  and  decoration  of  each  piece  of  armour ;  unfortunately  it  is  much 
mutilated  and  the  details  cannot  be  made  out  with  certainty.  I  have 
been  obliged  to  content  myself  with  giving  the  general  meaning. 

^  Here,  again,  the  text  is  too  mach  damaged  to  be  translated  completely. 
I  have  been  obliged  to  compress  into  a  few  words  the  probable  contents  of 
about  eighteen  lines. 

=  Lit.  "  Zinufi  found  [his  legs  "]. 


232  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

was  a  figure  of  gold  at  the  poop,  and  that  the  squads  of 
seamen  worked  the  tackle.  Behind  there  followed  two 
galleys,  five  hundred  transport-boats,  forty  ban  and  sixty 
small  boats  with  their  rowers,  so  that  the  river  was  too 
narrow  for  the  vessels  that  were  there,  and  the  banks  were 
too  narrow  for  the  cavalry,  for  the  chariots,  for  the  engines 
of  war,  for  the  foot>-soldiers.  A  chief  was  standing  on  the 
yacht.  Zinufi  called  with  a  loud  voice  and  he  cried  aloud, 
saying,  "  Oh  ye  men  of  the  white  fleet,  men  of  the  green 
fleet,  men  of  the  many-coloured  fleet,  which  of  your  boats 
will  aid  the  race  of  Pemu  the  Small,  son  of  Inaros  ?  Hasten 
to  him  in  the  lists,  for  he  is  alone  in  the  conflict.  There 
are  neither  calasiries,'  foot-soldiers,  horsemen,  nor  chariots 
with  him,  against  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes.  The 
people  of  Tanis,  of  Mendes,  of  Tahait,  of  Sebennytos  are 
aiding  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  their  god,  who 
dwells  in  the  fortress  of  Zauiphre.  His  brethren,  his  allies, 
his  armed  men  are  all  supporting  him."  When  the  men  of 
the  yacht  heard  him,  a  ealasiris  arose  on  the  prow,  saying, 
"  A  terrible  misfortune  it  is  that  thou  dost  announce  with 
thy  lips,  that  Pemu  and  his  clan  are  fighting  against  the 
great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes."  Zinufi  returned  to  carry 
the  news.  He  turned  his  steps  to  the  place  where  Pemu 
was,  and  he  found  him  engaged  against  the  great  lord  of 
Amon  in  Thebes ;  his  horse  had  been  slain  and  lay  on  the 
ground.  Zinufi  cried,  "  Fight,  my  god  Pemu  ;  thy  brethren, 
the  children  of  Inaros,  hasten  to  thee.'' 

When  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  saw  that  Zinufi 
came  back,  he  commanded  the  people  of  Tanis,  of  Mendes, 
of  Tahait,  and  of  Sebennytos  to  redouble  their  efforts 
against  Pemu.^  Zinufi,  the  young  esquire,  found  Pemu, 
his  heart  grieved,  his  face  covered  with  tears,  by  reason  of 

'  Tbia  is  the  name  given  by  Herodotus  (II,  oxliv-clxvi)  to  one  of  the 
glasses  from  which  the  army  was  recruited.     See  also  p.  261. 

^  Once  more  I  am  obliged  to  condense  into  a  few  words  the  meaning  of 
several  lines,  about  twelve,  that  are  half  destroyed. 


THE   HIGH  EMPRISE   FOR  THE  CUIRASS        233 

his  horse,   saying,  "  Have   they  then   slain   thee,  my  good 
beast  ?  "     When  he  heard  Zinufi,  he  lifted  up  his  face  and 
he   beheld    a   yacht   furnished   with   seamen  and   oarsmen, 
loaded  with  armed  men,  and  sailors  who  sang  to  the  breeze 
and  hastened  to  the  battle.     He  cried  with  a  loud  voice 
to  his  little  squire  Zinufi,  "  Brother,  who  are  those  men  ?  " 
"  It  is  the  clan  of  Inaros,  who  hasten  to  the  aid  of  Pemu 
the   Small,    son   of    Inaros."      Petekhonsu,  the   brother   of 
Pemu,  who  was  at  their  head,  defied  Ankhhoru,  the  son  of 
Pharaoh  ;  then  the  general  fighting  was  stopped  by  common 
accord,  and  they  armed  themselves  for  single  combat.    Then 
a  messenger  did  not  delay  to  go  to  the  place  where  Pharaoh 
Petubastis  was,  to  tell  him   all   that  had   passed   between 
Petekhonsu  and  Ankhhoru,  the  child  of   the  king.     When 
His  Majesty  heard  it,  he  became  furious.     "  What  is  this 
wicked  deed  ?  was  it  not  against  my  commands,  that  Ankh- 
horu, child  of  Pharaoh,  should  fight  against  this  dangerous 
bull,  the   people  of  the  East  ?     By  Amonra,  king   of  the 
gods,  my  great  god,  misfortune   to   the  host  of   Pisapdi  ! 
Shame  to  the  men   of  Athribis,  to  the  host  of  the  nome 
of    Mendes,    who   bear  down   the    bands   of  Sebennytos  in 
conflict  on  account  of  the  clan  of  high  personages,  princes, 
sons    of  the   prophet   Inaros.      The    banner   of  the   Prince 
Inaros  is  laid  down  until   their   allies    arrive.^      Let  them 
prepare  for  the  lists,  for  the  circle  of  the  tilt-yard.     Some 
lies  have  been  repeated  to  the  prince  Petekhonsu  that  he 
may  not  joust  with  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  child,  my  son,  and 
that  he  may  not  raise  his  flag    before  all  the  bands  have 
disembarked  and  have  raised  their  standards^  before  Pharaoh 

'  Into  this  one  sentence  I  condense  the  meaning  of  the  whole  of  a  long 
mutilated  passage  of  forty-seven  lines  which  contained  the  defiance  of 
Petekhonsu,  the  reply  of  Ankhhoru,  the  preparations  for  the  combat,  and 
the  beginning  of  Pharaoh's  speech.  I  have  tried  to  render  the  general 
meaning  rather  than  to  give  its  exact  tenor. 

'  It  seems  that  at  the  moment  of  engaging  in  combat,  two  troops  or 
two  individuals  planted  a  small  flag  in  the  ground  at  each  end  of  the  lists 
or  of  the  field  of  battle,  to  which  they  retired  after  each  bout ;  towards 


234  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

for  the  circle  of  the  tilt-yard."  The  host  of  the  two  sceptres 
and  the  men  of  the  two  bucklers '  then  started  on  their  way. 
"When  Pharaoh  arrived  at  the  place  where  Petekhonsu  was, 
he  perceived  the  pages  of  Petekhonsu,  and  Petekhonsu 
himself,  who  was  wearing  a  cuirass  of  solid  iron.  Pharaoh 
advanced  and  said,  "  Have  not  the  evil  eye,  my  child,  chief 
of  the  militia,  Petekhonsu ;  do  not  engage  in  war,  do  not 
fight,  until  thy  brethren  have  arrived ;  do  not  raise  thy 
banner  until  thy  clan  has  come."  Petekhonsu  saw  that  the 
Pharaoh  Petubastis  was  wearing  the  crown  on  his  head ; 
Petekhonsu  praised  him  and  addressed  the  usual  prayer  to 
him,  and  did  not  engage  in  battle  that  day.  Pharaoh  caused 
a  rescript  in  honour  of  Prince  Petekhonsu  to  be  inscribed 
on  a  stela.^ 

Now  while  all  this  was  happening,  the  yacht  of  the  great 
chief  of  the  East,  Pakriir,  arrived  at  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle, 
and  the  transports  of  Petekhonsu  and  the  people  of  Athribis 
pushed  farther  to  the  north.  A  wharf  was  assigned  for  their 
transports,  and  a  wharf  was  assigned  for  the  transports  of 
Ankhhoru,  the  son  of  Panemka.  A  wharf  was  assigned  for 
the  transports  of  the  people  of  Heliopolis  and  for  the  trans- 
ports of  the  people  of  Sais.  A  wharf  was  assigned  for  the 
transports  of  Minnemei,  prince  of  Elephantine.  A  wharf 
was  assigned  for  the  transports  of  Phramooni,  the  son  of 
Zinufi,  and  for  the  host  of  Pimankhi.  A  wharf  was  assigned 
to  Pebrekhaf,  the  son  of  Inaros,  and  to  the  host  of  the  nome 
of  Sais.  A  wharf  was  assigned  to  the  yacht  of  the  chief, 
Baklulu,  the  son  of  Inaros,  and  to  the  host  of  the  nome  of 
Busiris.     A  wharf   was  assigned  to  the   yacht   of  Uiluhni, 

the  end  of  the  day,  if  neither  of  the  standards  had  been  carried  off  by 
force,  which  was  an  assurance  of  defeat,  they  were  laid  down  to  mark 
the  suspension  of  hostilities.  The  expression  to  suppress  the  flag  in  our 
text  corresponds  with  to  proclaim  a  truce,  an  armistice.  Cf.  below 
p.  260. 

'  In  other  words,  the  troops  of  Pharaoh,  his  royal  guards. 

2  This  was  to  record  for  ever  Petekhonsu's  act  of  obedience  towards 
his  suzerain. 


THE   HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  CUIRASS        236 

the  son  of  Ankhhoru,  and  to  the  host  of  Meitum.     A  wharf 
was  assigned  to  Uohsunefgamul,  son  of  Inaros.     A  wharf  was 
assigned  to  the  yacht  of  Pemu  the  Small,  of  the  strong 
hand,  and  to  other  sons  of  the  prince  Inaros,  as  well  as  to 
the  brothers  of  the  chief  of  the  soldiers,  Petekhonsu,  and 
to  those  of  the  clan  of  the  prophet  Inaros.     He  who  beholds 
the   pool    and    its    waterfowl,    the    river    and   its    fish,    he 
beholds  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle  with  the  faction  of  Inaros ! 
They  roared  after  the  fashion  of  bulls,  they  were  imbued 
with  power  like  lions,  they  raged  like  lionesses.     One  came 
therefore    to    tell    Pharaoh,    saying,    "  The    two    factions 
have   arrived ;    they  resemble   lions   in  their  cuirasses  and 
bulls  in  their  weapons."     A  high  platform  was  then  set  up 
for  the  king,  Petubastis,  and  another  platform  was  set  up 
for  the  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  opposite  it.     A  plat- 
form was   set   up   for   Takhos,  the   son  of  Ankhhoru,    and 
another  was  set  up  for  Petekhonsu  opposite  it.      A  plat- 
form was  set  up  for  Uiluhni,  the  commandant  of  the  soldiers 
of  Meitum,  and  another  was  set  up  for  the  royal  son  Ankh- 
horu, the  son  of  the  Pharaoh   Petubastis,   opposite   it.     A 
platform  was  set  up  for  Psintales,  the  son  of  Zaulranamhai, 
the  prince  of  the   great  circle  of  Hanufi,  and  another  was 
set  up  for  Phramooni,  son  of  Zinufi,  prince  of  Pimankhi, 
opposite  it.     A  platform  was  set  up  for  Ankhhoru,  the  son 
of  Harbisa,    the  prince  of  the   province  of  Pilakhtti,    and 
another  was  set  up  for  Petekhonsu  of  Mendes  opposite  it. 
A  platform  was   set  up  for  Ankhhophis,  the   son   of  Phra- 
mooni,   the   prince   of  Pzoeis,  and  another  was  set  up  for 
Sukhotes,  the    son    of  Tafhakhti   of  Athribis,    opposite   it. 
The  host  of  the  four  nomes  were  ranged  behind  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  and  the  host  of  Heliopolis  behind 
Pemu  the  Small. 

Then  Pharaoh  said,  "  Oh  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur, 
I  see  there  is  no  one  who  can  prevent  the  two  bucklers 
meeting,    nome   against  nome,  and    every  city  against   its 


236  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

neighbour."  The  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  went 
forth  clothed  in  a  coat  spangled  with  good  iron  and  cast 
bronze,  belted  with  a  sword  of  good  cast  iron,  and  his  dagger 
in  the  fashion  of  the  people  of  the  East,  cast  in  one  single 
piece  from  the  handle  to  the  sharpened  point.  He  grasped 
a  lance  of  Arabian  wood  for  one  third,  and  of  gold  for 
another  third,  and  of  which  one  third  was  of  iron,  and  he 
took  in  his  hand  a  buckler  of  gold.  The  great  chief  of  the 
East,  Pakrur,  stood  in  the  midst  of  the  bands  of  Egypt, 
between  the  two  sceptres  and  the  two  bucklers,  and  he 
addressed  the  chieftains  in  a  loud  voice,  saying,  "  Know 
thou,  chief  of  the  militia,  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  : 
it  belongs  to  thee  to  fight  Pemu,  chief  of  the  soldiers,  the 
Small,  the  son  of  Inaros,  with  whom  march  the  seven  armed 
men  who  were  in  the  camp  of  the  divine  son,  of  the  prince 
Inaros,  and  you,  men  of  the  nome  of  HeUopolis,  place  your- 
selves in  front  of  the  numerous  bands  of  the  nome  of 
Mendes.  Know  thou,  chief  of  the  soldiers,  Petekhonsu  :  it 
belongs  to  thee  to  fight  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  the  son 
of  Pharaoh  Petubastis.  Know  ye,  Psitueris,  son  of  Pakrur, 
PhramoonI,  son  of  Ankhhoru,  Petekhonsu,  son  of  Bocchoris, 
and  know  thou,  host  of  Pisapdi :  it  belongs  to  you  to  fight 
the  host  of  the  nome  of  Sebennytos.  Know  ye,  PhramoonI, 
son  of  Zinufi,  and  the  host  of  Pimankhi :  it  belongs  to  you 
to  fight  the  host  of  the  nome  of  Tanis.  Know  thou, 
Siikhotes,  son  of  Zinufi,  chief  of  the  host  of  the  nome  of 
Athribis  :  it  belongs  to  thee,  and  also  to  Ankhhoru,  the  son 
of  Harbisa,  to  fight  the  prince  of  Ti6me',  the  chief  of  the 
herds  of  Sakhmi."  He  placed  them  man  against  man,  and 
great  was  their  prowess,  great  their  murderous  zeal. 

Now  after  that,  it  happened  that  the  great  chief  of  the 
East,  Pakrur,  turned  in  the  midst  of  the  fray,  and  he  per- 
ceived a  calasiris,  tall  and  of  fine  carriage,  who  was  stand- 
ing up  in  a  new  and  well-decorated  chariot.  He  was 
covered  with  his  armour,  and  with  all  his  weapons,  and  he 


THE   HIGH   EMPRISE   FOR   THE  CUIRASS        237 

had  forty  men-at-arms  with  him,  firm  and  straight  on  their 
forty  horses,  and  four  thousand  foot-soldiers  marched  behind 
him,  armed  from  head  to  foot,  and  four  thousand  soldiers 
well  equipped  were  behind  him.  He  raised  his  hand'  before 
the  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  saying,  "  Be  favourable 
to  me,  oh  Baal,  great  god,  my  god !  Wherefore  hast  thou 
not  given  me  a  place  in  the  fight,  that  I  may  place  myself 
among  my  brethren,  the  sons  of  the  prince  Inaros,  my 
father."  The  prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said  to  him, 
"  Which  art  thou  of  the  men  of  our  clan  ?  "  The  calasiris 
said  to  him,  "In  truth,  my  father,  prince  of  the  East, 
Pakrur,  I  am  Montubaal,  the  son  of  Inaros,  who  was  sent 
against  the  country  of  Khoiris.^  By  thy  prowess,  my  father, 
prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  I  was  uneasy,  and  I  could  not 
sleep  in  my  chamber,  when  I  dreamed  a  dream.  A  [female] 
singer  of  divine  words  was  near  me,'  and  said  to  me, '  Montu- 
baal, son  of  Inaros,  my  son,  hasten  as  greatly  as  thou  canst 
hasten !  Delay  no  longer,  but  go  up  to  Egypt,  for  I  will 
go  with  thee  to  the  lake  of  the  Gazelle,  on  account  of  the 
battle  and  the  war  that  the  host  of  Mendes,  and  the  clan 
of  Harmakhuiti,  the  son  of  Smendes,  wage  against  thy 
brethren  and  against  thy  clan,  because  of  the  cuirass  that 
they  have  carried  ofif  into  the  fortress  of  Zauiphre.'  Oh  my 
father,  prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  let  me  be  given  a  place 
in  the  lists ;  for  if  one  is  not  given  me,  what  will  become 
of  me,  my  father,  prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur  ?  "  The  prince 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,   said  to  him,  "  Hail  to  thee,   hail  to 

'  This  is  the  attitude  of  adoration  with  which  the  gods,  Pharaoh,  and 
people  of  high  degree  were  saluted. 

*  This  is  the  Kharu  of  earlier  texts  (see  p.  109,  note  4).  The  vocali- 
sation Khotri  of  the  Greek  and  Saitic  period  is  supplied  by  the  Greek 
transcription  Pkholris  of  the  name  of  Pkhairi,  the  Syrian. 

'  As  Spiegelberg  has  remarked,  the  word  I  have  here  translated  siiiger 
is  in  the  feminine  (Ber  Sagenkreis  del  Konigs  Petubastis,  p.  67,  note  10).  As 
it  is  usually  divinities  who  appear  to  the  slumbering  heroes,  I  think  the 
singer  is  a  goddess,  probably  an  Ishtar  or  an  Astarte.  Montubaal,  having 
lived  in  Syria,  would  see  a  Semitic  goddess  in  his  dream,  as  naturally  as 
he  swears  by  a  Semitic  god  (cf.  below,  p.  241,  note  4). 


238  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

thee,  Montubaal !  Thou  dost  arrive  with  thy  bands  when 
all  is  arranged ;  yet  since  thou  dost  demand  an  order  of  me, 
this  is  the  order  that  I  give  thee.  Remain  on  thy  yacht 
and  send  none  of  thy  men  to  the  battle,  for  I  will  not  give 
thee  the  signal  to  fight  until  the  bands  of  the  nomas  attack 
our  vessels ;  then  let  them  not  make  havoc  on  the  river." 
Montubaal  said  to  him :  "  Oh  my  father,  prince  of  the 
East,  Pakrur,  I  will  remain  on  my  yacht."  Pakrur  showed 
him  the  position  where  he  should  place  himself,  and  he 
mounted  his  platform  to  follow  the  vicissitudes  of  the 
battle.! 

The  two  factions  fought  from  the  fourth  hour  of  the 
morning  to  the  ninth  hour  of  the  evening,  while  the  men- 
at-arms  did  not  cease  to  strike  one  against  another.  At  last 
Ankhhoru,  son  of  Harblsa,  the  prince  of  Tiome,  raised  himself 
to  rescue  another  hero  of  the  bands  of  Sebennytos,  and  they 
ran  towards  the  river.  Now  Montubaal  was  on  the  river  on  his 
yacht ;  he  heard  the  loud  cry  that  arose  from  the  host  and 
the  neighings  of  the  horses,  and  one  said  to  him :  "  It  is 
the  host  of  the  nome  of  Sebennytos  that  flies  before  thy 
brethren."  He  said,  "  Be  with  me,  oh  Baal,  the  great  god, 
my  god  !  Behold  it  is  already  the  ninth  hour,  and  my 
heart  is  troubled  because  I  have  taken  no  part  in  the  battle 
and  the  war."  He  put  on  his  coat  and  he  seized  his 
weapons  of  war,  and  hastened  to  encounter  the  host  of 
the  nome  of  Sebennytos,  the  bands  of  Mendes,  and  of  the 
fortress  of  Zauiphre,  of  Tahait,  of  the  forces  of  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes.  He  spread  defeat  and  carnage 
among  them,  like  Sokhit  in  her  hour  of  fury,  when  her  wrath 
is  inflamed  in  dry  grass.  The  host  dispersed  before  him, 
and  defeat  was  spread  out  beneath  their  eyes,  carnage 
among  them.     There  was  no   ceasing   from    sowing   death 

'  These  few  lines  represent  a  summary  of  the  probable  meaning  of  two 
entire  pages,  which  are  so  much  mutilated  that  I  cannot  venture  to  restore 
them  as  a  consecutive  whole. 


THE   HIGH  EMPRISE   FOR  THE  CUIRASS        239 

among  them.  It  was  reported  to  Pharaoh  Petubastis,  and 
he  opened  his  mouth  with  a  great  cry,  he  flung  himself 
down  from  his  high  platform.  Pharaoh  said,  "  Great  chief 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  go  among  the  soldiers.  It  is  reported 
to  me  that  Montubaal,  the  son  of  Inaros,  is  spreading  defeat 
and  carnage  among  the  host  of  the  four  nomes.  Make  him 
cease  from  destroying  my  army."  The  great  chief  of  the 
East  said,  "  May  it  please  Pharaoh  to  go  with  me  to  the 
place  where  Montubaal  is;  I  will  make  him  cease  from 
slaying  the  host  of  Egypt.  Pakrur  put  on  his  coat,  he 
mounted  a  litter  with  Pharaoh  Petubastis.  They  met 
with  Montubaal,  the  son  of  Inaros,  on  the  field  of  battle, 
and  the  great  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said,  "  My  son 
Montubaal,  retire  from  the  lists  of  the  fight.  Is  it  well  to 
spread  defeat  and  ruin  among  thy  brethren,  the  host  of 
Egypt?"  Montubaal  said,  "Is  that  well  which  those  men 
have  done ;  to  carry  ofif  the  cuirass  of  my  father  Inaros  into 
the  fortress  of  Zauiphre  by  guile,  and  that  thou  hast  not 
done  all  that  was  needed  to  make  them  return  it  to  us  ?  " 
The  king  said,  "  Hold  thy  hand,  oh  my  son  Montubaal,  and 
that  which  thou  demandest  shall  be  done  forthwith.  I  will 
have  the  cuirass  taken  back  to  Heliopolis  to  the  place  where 
it  was  before,  and  joy  will  go  before  it,  jubilation  after  it." 
Montubaal  had  the  clarion  sounded  in  his  army.  They 
retired  from  the  Usts,  and  it  was  as  though  no  one  had 
fought. 

They  then  returned,  Pharaoh  and  Pakrur,  with  Montu- 
baal, to  the  battle,  to  the  place  where  Pemu  was,  and  they 
found  him  engaged  with  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes. 
Pemu  had  half  overthrown  his  adversary  beneath  his  buckler 
of  plaited  rushes ;  he  gave  a  kick,  he  caused  the  buckler 
to  fall  on  the  ground,  and  he  raised  his  hand  and  his  sword 
as  though  to  slay  him.  Montubaal  said,  "  No,  my  brother 
Pemu,  do  not  push  thy  hand  to  the  point  of  taking  revenge 
on  those  men,  for  man  is  not  like  a  reed  that  grows  again 


240  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

when  it  is  cut.  Since  Pakrur,  my  father,  and  Pharaoh 
Petubastis  have  commanded  that  there  shall  not  be  war,  let 
all  be  done  that  Pharaoh  has  said  in  the  matter  of  the 
cuirass,  to  bring  it  back  to  its  first  place,  and  let  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes  go,  and  return  to  his  house."  They 
then  separated  the  one  from  the  other ;  but  it  happened 
immediately  that  the  captain  of  the  troops,  Petekhonsu, 
engaged  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  and  he  made  a  thrust  at 
him  in  jest.  Petekhonsu  leapt  behind  him  at  one  bound, 
and  struck  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  a  blow  more  hard  than 
stone,  more  burning  than  fire,  lighter  than  a  breath  of  air, 
swifter  than  the  wind.  Ankhhoru  could  not  stay  the  deed 
nor  parry  it;  and  Petekhonsu  held  him  half  overthrown 
before  him  beneath  his  buckler  of  plaited  reeds  ;  Petekhonsu 
flung  him  to  the  ground,  he  raised  his  arm,  he  brandished 
his  harpa,'  and  a  loud  wail  like  a  profound  lamentation  rose 
in  the  army  of  Egypt,  on  account  of  Ankhhoru,  the  royal 
son.  The  tidings  were  not  long  concealed  from  the  place 
where  Pharaoh  was,  to  wit,  "  Petekhonsu  has  overthrown 
Ankhhoru,  thy  son,  to  the  ground,  and  he  raises  his  arm 
and  his  harpa  to  destroy  him."  The  king  Pharaoh  was 
greatly  anguished.  He  said,  "Be  merciful  to  me,  Amonra, 
lord  king  of  Diospolis,  the  great  god,  my  god.  I  have  done 
my  best  to  prevent  fighting  and  war,  but  they  have  not 
listened  to  me."  When  he  had  said  these  things,  he 
hasted,  and  he  seized  the  arm  of  Petekhonsu.  The  king 
said,  "  My  son  Petekhonsu,  preserve  his  life,  turn  away 
thine  arm  from  my  son,  for  fear  if  thou  slayest  him  that 
the  hour  of  my  revenge  will  come.  You  have  had  your 
revenge,  you  have  conquered  in  your  war,  and  your  arm  is 
strong  throughout  Egypt."      The  great  chief  of  the  East, 


'  The  harpd  is  the  sword  with  a  curved  blade  shaped  like  a  reaping-hook, 
which  from  the  earliest  times  was  the  characteristic  weapon  of  the  Egyptian 
troops.  It  is  still  in  use  among  the  Masai,  the  Chilluks,  and  many  other 
tribes  of  equatorial  Africa. 


THE  HIGH  EMPEISE  FOR  THE  CUIRASS        241 

Pakrur,  said,  "  Turn  away  thine  arm  from  Ankhhoru,  by 
reason  of  Pharaoh,  his  father,  for  he  is  his  life." '  He 
parted  therefore  from  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son.  Pharaoh 
said,  "  By  Amonra,  king  of  Diospolis,  the  great  god,  my 
god,  it  is  done  that  the  host  of  the  nome  of  Mendes,  and 
the  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  he  is  overthrown,  and 
Petekhonsu  has  conquered  him  as  well  as  the  host  of  the 
four  nomes  which  were  the  most  weighty  of  Egypt ;  it  only 
remains  to  stop  the  carnage."  ^ 

Now,  while  this  was  happening,  Minnemei  advanced  on  the 
river  with  his  forty  sergeants-at-arms,  his  nine  thousand 
Ethiopians  of  Meroe,  with  his  esquires  of  Syene,  with  his 
chaplains,  with  his  hounds  of  Khaziru,'  and  the  armed  men 
of  the  nome  of  Thebes  behind  him,  and  the  river  was  too 
narrow  for  the  people  of  the  yachts,  and  the  bank  was 
too  narrow  for  the  cavalry.  When  he  arrived  at  the  lake  of 
the  Gazelle,  a  wharf  was  assigned  to  the  bull  of  the  militia, 
Minnemei,  the  son  of  Inaros,  the  prince  of  the  militia  of 
Elephantine,  near  the  yacht  of  Takhos,  chief  of  the  soldiers 
of  the  nome  of  Mendes,  near  his  fighting  galley,  and  it 
happened  that  the  cuirass  of  prince  Inaros  was  found  on 
this  galley.     Minnemei  exclaimed,  "By  Khnumu,*  lord  of 


'  The  text  says  in  the  Egyptian,  Ms  respiration,  his  ireath. 

^  The  king's  speech  is  so  broken  by  lacuna  that  it  cannot  be  translated 
accurately.  1  have  summarised  in  a  few  words  the  meaning  gleaned  from 
fragments  of  sentences. 

'  It  may  be  asked  whether  these  are  war-dogs,  such  as  the  Asiatic 
Greeks  took  with  them  into  battle,  in  their  wars  against  the  Cimmerians  ; 
cf.  Maspero,  Passing  of  the  Empires,  p.  429,  note  1. 

*  I  have  already  explained  the  part  played  by  Khnumu  (p.  12,  note  1, 
and  p.  36,  note  2) :  as  he  is  the  god  of  Elephantine,  it  is  by  him  that 
MlnnemM  swears,  himself  prince  of  Elephantine.  It  is  also  well  to  notice 
that  all  through  this  story  the  author  has  taken  care  to  place  in  the 
mouth  of  each  of  his  heroes  the  local  oath  belonging  to  the  fief  he 
governs:  Pemu,  prince  of  Heliopolis,  swears  by  the  god  of  Heliopolis, 
Atumu  (cf.  p.  223) ;  Petubastis,  who  reigns  at  Tanis,  swears  by  Amonr^, 
the  great  god  of  Tanis  (cf.  pp.  221,  233)  ;  Montubaal,  who  lives  in  Syria, 
swears  by  Baal  (pp.  237,  238) ;  the  great  lord  of  Amon  by  the  gods  of 
the  Mendesian  nome  (cf.  p  .  220,  224). 


242  STORIES   Ot  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Elephantine,  the  great  god,  my  god.  Lo,  here  is  that  for 
which  I  have  invoked  thee,  to  behold  the  cuirass  of  my 
father,  the  Osiris  Inaros,  in  order  that  I  might  become  the 
instrument  to  avenge  him."  Minnemei  donned  his  coat 
and  his  weapons  of  war,  and  the  host  that  was  with  him 
followed  him.  He  went  to  the  galley  of  Takhos,  the  son  of 
Ankhhoru,  and  he  encountered  nine  thousand  armed  men 
who  guarded  the  cuirass  of  the  Osiris  Inaros.  Minnemei 
flung  himself  into  the  midst  of  them.  He  who  was  there, 
ready  for  battle,  his  place  of  combat  became  for  him  a  place 
of  slumber;  he  who  was  there,  ready  for  the  struggle,  he 
encountered  his  contest  at  his  post,  and  he  who  loved  carnage, 
he  had  his  fill  of  it,  for  Minnemei  dealt  defeat  and  carnage 
among  them.  Then  he  stationed  his  sergeants-at-arms  on 
board  the  galley  of  Takhos,  son  of  Ankhhoru,  to  prevent  any 
man  in  the  world  mounting  thereon.  Takhos  resisted  as  well 
as  he  could,  but  at  last  he  gave  way,  and  Minnemei  pursued 
him  with  his  Ethiopians  and  his  hounds  of  Khaziru.  The 
children  of  Inaros  hastened  with  him,  and  they  seized  the 
cuirass.^ 

After  that,  they  brought  the  cuirass  of  the  Osiris,  prince 
Inaros,  to  Heliopolis,  and  they  deposited  it  in  the  place 
where  it  was  before.  And  the  sons  of  prince  Inaros  rejoiced 
greatly,  as  well  as  the  host  of  the  nome  Heliopolis,  and  they 
went  to  the  king,  and  said  to  him,  "  Our  great  lord,  take 
the  calamus  and  write  the  history  of  the  great  war  which 
was  in  Egypt  on  account  of  the  cuirass  of  the  Osiris,  the 
prince  Inaros,  as  well  as  the  combats  fought  by  Pemu  the 
Small  to  reconquer  it,  that  which  he  did  in  Egypt,  with 
the  princes  and  the  host  who  are  in  the  nomes  and  in  the 
cities ;  then  cause  it  to  be  engraved  on  a  stela  of  stone 
and  erect  it  in  the  temple  of  Heliopolis."  And  the  king 
Petubastis  did  that  which  they  had  said. 

'  The  three  last  sentences  comprise  the  substance  of  about  twenty-seven 
lines  of  text  that  are  too  damaged  to  be  completely  reconstructed. 


HIGH   EMPRISE  FOR  THE  THRONE  243 

II 

THE   HIGH   EMPRISE   FOR  THE   THRONE   OF   AMON 

The  second  romance  has  come  down  to  us  in  a  Theban  manuscript, 
which  dates  from  the  first  half  of  the  first  century  a.d.  The  frag- 
ments of  it  were  bought  from  a  dealer  at  Gizeh  in  1904  by 
Borchardt  and  Kubensohn,  and  in  1905  by  Seymour  de  Eicci.  The 
larger  part,  which  was  acquired  by  Borchardt  and  Eubensohn,  has 
gone  to  the  University  of  Strasburg,  where  Spiegelberg  discovered 
the  subject  of  it.  It  has  been  published,  as  well  as  the  pieces 
recovered  by  Ricci  in  W.  Spiegelberg,  Der  Sagenkreis  des  Konigs 
Petubastis,  Tiach  dem  Strassburger  Demotischen  Papyrus  sowie  den 
Wiener  und  Pariser  Bmckstiicken,  4to,  Leipzig,  1910,  80  and  102 
pages,  and  22  plates  in  phototype. 

So  far  as  it  is  possible  to  .iudge  at  present,  it  contains  the  Theban 
version  of  the  theme  dealt  with  in  the  first  romance.  The  cuirass 
is  replaced  by  the  throne  of  Amon,  probably,  as  I  have  said 
in  the  Introduction  (p.  xli),  by  the  sacred  throne  on  which  the 
priests  placed  the  strangely  shaped  emblem,  representing  one  of  the 
types  of  the  god  of  the  Graeco-Eoman  period.  The  personages  that 
sxu'round  Pharaoh  in  the  narrative  are  many  of  them  the  same 
as  those  of  the  previous  story  —  Pakrdr  prince  of  the  East, 
Pemu  son  of  Eienharer6u-Inar6s  prince  of  Heliopolis,  Ankhhoru 
son  of  Pharaoh  and  his  son  Takh6s,  and  Minnebmei  prince  of 
Elephantine ;  and  yet,  as  Spiegelberg  has  justly  observed  (Der 
Sagenkreis,  p.  8),  years  have  passed  since  the  affair  of  the  cuirass,  and 
new  personages  have  arisen — Pesnufi,  the  son  of  PakrHr,  and  a  young 
prophet  of  Horus  of  Btito  who  is  not  named  anywhere,  but  whose 
auxiliaries  are  named  generally  as  the  AmSu.  THs  name,  which 
Spiegelberg  translates  literally  as  the  Shepherds,  and  interprets  as  the 
Asiatics,  affords  the  basis  for  a  very  ingenious  comparison  with  the 
legend  of  Osars<lph,  the  priest  of  Heliopolis,  the  Moses  of  Jewish 
tradition,  and  his  companions  the  shepherds  or  the  Impure  of  Asia  ; 
here,  however,  the  term  Ameu  may  have  been  applied  in  a  vague  and 
inaccurate  manner  to  the  Assyrians,  the  actual  masters  of  Egypt  at 
the  time  when  the  Petubastis  and  Pakrlir  of  the  narrative  were 
living  (Der  Sagenkreis,  pp.  8-9).  A  passage  in  this  romance  (p.  249) 
speaks  of  these  people  as  being  natives  of  the  country  of  the  papyrus, 
and  Spiegelberg,  following  up  this  idea,  recognises  in  this  term  an 
expression  analogous  with  that  of  the  sea  of  rushes  by  which  the 
Hebrew  books  designate  the  bitter  lakes  of  the  isthmus  of  Suez  (Der 
Sagenkreis,  p.  86,  No.  582).  It  seems  to  me  that  this  identification, 
by  placing  them  beyond  the  Arab  nome,  the  country  of  the  East, 
over  which  Pakr<ir  reigned,  assigns  them  a  situation  too  far  from 
that  city  of  BUto,  where  their  master,  the  priest  of  Horus,  exercised 


244  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

his  sacerdotal  authority.  I  should  prefer  to  apply  the  term  country 
of  the  papyrus  to  those  marshes  on  the  north  coast  of  the  Delta  where, 
after  Isis  and  Horus,  several  kings  of  popular  legend  or  of  history 
had  taken  refuge.  These  districts,  almost  inaccessible,  were 
inhabited  by  fishermen  and  half-savage  herdsmen,  whose  bravery 
and  strength  struck  terror  to  the  hearts  of  the  fellahin  of  the  culti- 
vated plain  and  their  masters.  I  have  mentioned  the  Bucolics  in  the 
Introdvction  (p.  xli),  and  I  consider  the  word  Ame,  plural  Ameu, 
which  in  Coptic  signifies  the  drover,  to  be  similar  to  the  Egyptian 
original  of  the  Greek  Boukolos  and  the  Arab  Biamu — the  Coptic 
Ame  with  the  masculine  article — by  which  the  chroniclers  of  the 
Middle  Ages  designated  the  inhabitants  of  these  quarters. 

The  fragments  obtained  by  de  Ricci  are  for  the  greater  part  so 
short  that  I  have  disregarded  them.  For  those  of  Strasburg,  I  have 
followed  Spiegelberg's  excellent  translation,  except  on  some  points 
of  minor  importance.  I  have  summarily  restored  the  beginning  of 
the  narrative,  but  without  attempting  to  find  a  place  for  several 
incidents  to  which  the  author  alludes  in  various  parts  of  his  work, 
especially  for  those  which  refer  to  Petubastis,  Pemu,  and  Pesnufi 
(cf.  pp.  250,  255,  257-258),  and  which  inspired  the  latter  with  so  many 
picturesque  insults  to  hurl  at  his  suzerain.  Like  the  High  Emprise 
for  the  Cuirass,  the  High  Emprise  for  the  Throne  is  written  in  a  simple 
style,  which  occasionally  verges  on  platitude.  The  romantic  interest 
is  only  mediocre  in  the  eyes  of  a  literary  public,  but  the  information 
it  affords  us  on  certain  religious  or  military  usages,  and  on  many 
points  of  etiquette  among  the  Egyptians  of  the  Graeco-Roman  period 
is  sufficiently  valuable  to  merit  close  study  by  archaeologists. 

There  was  once  a  high-priest  of  Amon  of  Thebes,  in 
the  time  of  the  Pharaoh  Petubastis,  who  possessed  much 
land,  much  cattle,  and  many  slaves,  and  he  had  in  his 
mansion  a  throne  of  Amon  more  beautiful  than  anything 
else  in  the  world.  When  he  died  his  beasts  and  his 
slaves  passed  into  the  hands  of  his  children,  but  Ankhhoru, 
son  of  Pharaoh  Petubastis,  took  possession  of  the  throne. 
Now  it  chanced  that  the  eldest  son  of  the  high-priest, 
who  himself  was  priest  of  Horus  at  Buto,  desired  to 
have  it.  He  assembled  his  thirteen  men-at-arms,  who 
were  herdsmen  of  the  Bucolics,  and  he  sent  a  message  to 
Pharaoh  saying,  "  If  thy  son  Ankhhoru  does  not  restore  to 
me  the  throne  of  Amon  which  belonged  to  my  father,  the 
high-priest  of  Amon,  I  will  make  war  on  thee  to  take  it 


HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  THRONE  245 

from  him."  When  this  message  arrived  at  Thebes,  Pharaoh 
assembled  his  princes,  his  military  chiefs,  the  principal 
ones  of  Egypt,  and  he  demanded  of  them  what  he  should 
do;  they  counselled  him  to  refuse  the  demand.  As  soon 
as  the  priest  of  Horus  heard  this  he  embarked  with  his 
thirteen  men-at-arms,  and  he  went  up  the  river  until  he 
reached  Thebes.  He  arrived  there  when  they  were  cele- 
brating the  great  annual  festival  of  Amon  of  Kamak,  and, 
falling  unexpectedly  on  the  crowd,  he  seized  the  sacred 
bark  that  carried  the  statue  of  the  god.  Pharaoh  Petubastis 
was  very  angry,  and  he  summoned  the  priest  of  Horus 
to  return  the  bark ;  but  the  priest  declared  to  him  that 
he  would  keep  it  as  long  as  the  throne  was  not  returned 
to  him ;  and,  no  doubt  to  show  yet  more  the  importance 
he  attached  to  the  object  he  demanded,  he  boasted  of  the 
qualities  of  the  bark,  and  described  it  piece  by  piece.' 
He  then  added,  "  And  now,^  is  there  a  man  who  has  more 
right  to  the  throne  than  I,  a  prophet  of  Horus  of  Pai  in 
Buto,^  the  son  of  Isis  in  Khemmis  ?  It  is  to  me  that 
this  throne  belongs,  and  verily  my  father,  verily  my  father,* 
who  is  now  first  prophet  of  Amon,  and  the  priests  of  Amon, 
have  no  right  to  it." 

Pharaoh  looked  at  the  face  of  the  priest ;  he  said,  "  Have 
you  heard  that   which  the  young  priest  has  said  ?  "     The 

'  This  description,  which  occupies  the  first  page  that  is  preserved  of 
the  Spiegelberg  Papyrus,  is  too  much  damaged  to  permit  of  a  consecutive 
translation.  As  Spiegelberg  has  stated  (^Der  Sagenkreis  des  Konigs  Petu- 
bastis, p.  13),  it  is  composed  on  the  model  of  mystic  descriptions  of  barks 
in  the  world  of  the  dead ;  every  part  of  the  hulk  and  of  the  rigging  is 
compared  to  a  god  or  goddess  who  protects  it. 

2  Here  begins  that  part  of  the  text  that  I  have  thought  possible  to 
translate. 

'  Pai,  Pi,  Pu  is  the  name  of  one  of  the  twin  cities  that  formed  the 
city  of  Buto,  the  Tell  Abtu  of  to-day.     The  second  was  called  Dupu. 

'  Although  the  position  occupied  by  these  words  at  the  end  of  the 
fourth  line,  repeated  at  the  beginning  of  the  next,  might  make  one 
suspect  them  of  being  an  unconscious  dittography  on  the  part  of  the 
scribe,  I  regard  the  reduplication  as  a  voluntary  one.  The  priest  would 
utter  it  to  give  greater  force  to  his  claim. 
21 


246  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

priest   said  to  Pharaoh,   "  We  have  not  heard  these  same 
words  before  this  day,  and  letters  about  it  have  not  hitherto 
reached  us."     Now,  while  the  young  priest  said  these  words, 
Amon,  the  great  god,  had  appeared,  listening  to  his  voice.^ 
The    lector^    said    therefore,    "If    it    please   Pharaoh,    let 
Pharaoh   question   Amon,   the   great   god,    saying,   '  Is   the 
young    priest  he  who   has  a  right   to  the  said  throne  ? ' " 
Pharaoh  said,   "  That  thou  sayest  is  just."      Pharaoh  then 
questioned  Amon,  saying,  "  Is  the  young  priest  he  who  has 
a  right  to  the  said  throne  ?  "     Amon  then  advanced  with 
rapid  steps,'  saying,   "  It  is  he."      Pharaoh    said,   "  Young 
priest,  as  these  matters  were  known  to  thee  in  thy  heart, 
wherefore  didst  thou  not  come  yesterday  to  raise  thy  voice 
as  to  these  same  matters,  before  I  gave  a  brief  with  regard 
to  them  to  the  first  prophet  of  Amon  ?    For  I  should  have 
forced  Ankhhoru,  the   royal  son,    to   cede  thee  the  throne 
itself."     The  young  priest  said  to  Pharaoh,  "  My  great  lord, 
I  came  to  Pharaoh  to  speak  of  it  with  the  priests  of  Amon.^ 
As  Amon,  the  great  god,  was  he  who  found  the  things  for 
Horus,   before   he  had  avenged   his   father   Osiris,   I  came 
to  receive  the  charm  of  Amon,  the  great  god,  even  that 
which   he   made  when   Horus,    son   of  Isis,    son   of  Osiris, 

'  This  must  not  be  regarded  as  an  actual  theophany  of  the  god  himself, 
appearing  at  the  king's  council,  but,  according  to  Egyptian  custom,  as 
the  arrival,  on  priests'  shoulders,  of  the  ark  that  contained  the  statue  of 
Amon  (cf.  Maspero,  Causeries  d'Mgypte,  pp.  167,  173,  293,  298,  and  Au 
temps  de  Samses  et  d'Assourianipal,  pp.  66-69. 

^  For  the  meaning  of  this  title  and  the  function  of  the  priest  who  bears 
it,  see  above,  p.  24,  note  2. 

"  Naturally  it  is  the  priests  who  advance  at  a  rapid  pace,  bearing  the 
ark  of  the  god. 

•  The  text  is  damaged  and  the  sequence  of  ideas  is  not  clear.  The 
priest  here  gives  the  reason  why  he  had  not  presented  himself  the  previous 
day,  while  before  he  claimed  the  return  of  the  throne  Pharaoh  Petubastis 
had  adjudged  it  in  legal  form  to  Ankhhoru.  The  reason  he  gives  for  his 
delay,  and  which  appears  to  justify  his  action,  is  drawn,  so  far  as  I  can 
judge,  from  the  myth  of  the  god.  It  seems  that  Horus  before  entering 
on  a  campaign  to  refresh — q^abhu — the  wrath  of  his  father  Osiris,  in  other 
words  to  appease  him  by  avenging  him,  was  sent  by  his  mother  Isis  to 


HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  THRONE  247 

was  sent  to  the  Said  to  avenge  his  father  Osiris,  I  spoke 
with  him  about  the  vengeance  obtained  by  Horus  [with 
his  aid]."  Takhos,  the  son  of  Ankhhoru,  said,  "If  then 
thou  spakest  with  him  yesterday,  do  not  come  back  to-day, 
and  do  not  hold  evil  discourse.  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son, 
was  armed  before  the  diadem  of  Amon,  the  great  god ;  he 
has  returned  to  the  Said,  and  he  has  been  calmed  as  in 
the  day  when  he  arrived  at  Thebes."^  The  young  priest 
said,  "  Cease  speaking  to  me  with  thy  mouth,  Takhos,  son 
of  Ankhhoru,  and  when  I  question  thee  on  those  matters 
of  the  chief  of  militia  which  concern  thee,  attend  to  them. 
The  thrones  of  the  temple,  where  hast  thou  put  them  ? 
By  the  life  of  Horus  of  Pal  in  Buto,  my  god,  Amon  shall 
not  return  to  Thebes,  in  the  usual  manner,  until  Ankh- 
horu, the  royal  son,  has  given  me  the  throne  which  is  in 
his  hands.''  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  said  to  him,  "  Art 
thou  come  to  take  the  said  throne  by  an  action  in  law, 
or  art  thou  come  to  take  it  by  battle  ?  "  The  young  priest 
said,  "If  my  voice  is  listened  to,  I  consent  that  it  is 
decided  by  action  in  law ;  if  my  voice  is  not  listened  to, 
I  consent  that  it  is  decided  by  battle."  ^ 

When  he   had    spoken   thus,    Ankhhoru,   the   royal   son, 

Amon  at  Thebes,  that  the  god  might  provide  him  with  the  necessary 
charms  to  triumph  over  Typhon  ;  the  most  powerful  of  these  charms  was 
provided  by  the  crown  of  the  god,  i.e.  by  the  ur^us  that  adorns  the 
crown,  the  flame  of  which  destroys  enemies.  The  priest,  starting  for 
the  Said,  to  win  back  his  property,  acts  as  the  god  had  done,  and  he 
goes  first  of  all  to  request  Amon  for  the  magic  power  of  his  crown, 
which  has  assured  victory  to  Horus.  It  was  while  he  was  reporting — sami, 
semme — his  intentions  to  Amon  that  the  throne  was  given  to  Ankhhoru. 

'  These  words  of  Takhos  evidently  contain  a  threat  which  is  only 
half  expressed.  If  I  understand  them  aright,  they  suggest  that  Ankhhoru 
also  is  provided  with  the  charm  that  dwells  in  the  crown  of  Amon.  He 
has  been  calmed — talkn — with  much  difficulty ;  but  if  the  priest  insists, 
he  will  give  rein  to  his  anger. 

^  Lit.  "  I  grant  that  he  take  it  by  judgment.  ...  I  grant  that  he  take 
it  by  battle."  The  young  priest  here  addresses  the  king  and  the  auditors  in 
general,  and  he  designates  his  adversary  by  the  pronoun  he  ■  he  declares 
himself  ready  to  accept  either  an  action  in  law  or  a,  duel  to  decide  the 
question  of  proprietorship. 


248  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

gave  way  to  wrath  like  the  sea,  his  eyes  flashed  fire,  his 
heart  darkened  with  dust  like  the  mountain  of  the  East ; ' 
he  said,  "  By  the  life  of  Amonra,  lord  of  Sebennytos,  my 
god,  the  throne  that  thou  claimest,  thou  shalt  not  have ; 
I  will  return  it  to  the  first  prophet  of  Amon,  to  whom  it 
belonged    from    the    beginning."       Ankhhoru,    the    royal 
son,  turned  his  face  to  the  dais,^  he  flung  on  the  ground 
the  vestments  of  fine  linen  that  were  upon  him,  and  also 
the    ornaments   of  gold    with  which    he   was   adorned;    he 
caused  his  harness  to  be  brought,  he  sent  for  his  talismans 
of  the  lists,'  he  went  to  the  forecourt  of  Amon.      When 
the  young  priest  had  turned  his  face  to  the  dais,  behold, 
there  was  a  page  in  front  of  him,  who  was  hidden  in  the 
crowd,   and    who    had   a    cuirass   of  fine   workmanship   in 
his  hands ;    the  young  priest  went  to  him,  and  took  the 
cuirass  from  his  hands,  he  put  it  on,  he  went  to  the  fore- 
court of  Amon,   he   marched  to  encounter   Ankhhoru,   the 
royal    son,    he    struck   him,    he   fought   with   him.      Then 
Takhos,    son   of  Ankhhoru,    opened   his  mouth  to  protest, 
and  the  men  of  battle  were   indignant   against   the    host, 
saying,    "  Are    you    going    to    remain    there   near   Amon, 
while  a  herdsman  fights  with  the  son  of  Pharaoh,  without 
placing  your  arms  on  his  side  with  him  ?  "     The  host  of 
Egypt  hastened  from  every  side,  those  of  Tanis,   those  of 
Mendes,  those   of    Tahait,   those    of    Sebennytos,  the  host 
of  the  four  weighty  nomes   of   Egypt ;  •  they   came,    they 

'  Lit.  "  His  heart  gave  birth  for  him  of  dust  like  the  mountain  of  the 
East."  The  effect  of  his  wrath  is  here  compared  to  the  effect  of  the  storm- 
wind,  the  Khamsin. 

2  The  word  tu6t,  employed  here,  seems  to  me  to  be  the  latest  form  of  the 
word  zadu,  latw,  of  the  Eamesside  age,  which  denotes  a  platform  sur- 
mounted by  a  dais,  on  which  the  Pharaoh  gave  audience.  The  two 
champions  one  after  the  other  turn  to  the  sovereign  to  salute  him  before 
putting  on  their  armour. 

"  These  were  the  talismans  that  the  soldiers  took  with  them  to  protect 
them  during  the  fight ;  they  will  be  referred  to  later  (p.  251). 

'  Probably  those  in  which  the  contingents  were  most  numerous,  and 
weighed  most  heavily  in  the  fight;  cf.  above,  p.  241. 


HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE   THRONE  249 

repaired  to  the  lists  to  join  themselves  to  Ankhhoru,  the 
royal  son.  [On  their  side],  the  thirteen  herdsmen  of  the 
Bucolics  '■  fell  on  the  host,  enclosed  in  their  harness, 
the  helm  with  a  bull's  face  on  their  head,^  a  buckler  on 
their  arm,  and  the  harpa  in  their  hand;  they  ranged 
themselves  to  right  and  left  of  the  young  priest,  and  their 
voices  resounded,  saying,  "Eeceive  our  oath  that  we 
make  before  Amon,  the  great  god,  present  here  to-day : 
if  one  among  you  shall  cause  the  prophet  of  Horus  of  Pu, 
in  Buto,  to  hear  a  word  that  displeases  him  we  will  water 
the  ground  with  his  blood."  The  fame  of  the  strength  of 
the  priest,  the  fear  in  which  they  held  the  thirteen  herdsmen 
for  Pharaoh  was  so  great  in  the  host,  that  no  one  in 
the  world  ventured  to  speak.  The  young  priest  arose 
against  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  as  a  lion  against  a  wild 
ass,  as  a  nurse  against  her  nursling  when  he  is  naughty : 
he  seized  him  below  his  cuirass,  he  threw  him  on  the 
ground,  he  bound  him  firmly,  he  pushed  him  on  the  road 
before  him.  The  thirteen  herdsmen  walked  behind  him, 
and  not  a  person  in  the  world  attacked  them,  so  great 
was  the  fear  that  they  imposed.  They  made  their  way  to 
the  bark  of  Amon,  they  went  on  board,  they  laid  down  their 
harness,  they  pushed  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  into  the  hold 
of  the  bark  of  Amon,  bound  with  a  strap  from  Gattani,' 
and  they  let  down  the  trap-door  over  him.  The  seamen 
and  the  rowers  went  down  on  to  the  bank ;  they  placed 
their  bucklers  by  their  side,  they  washed  themselves  for 
a    festival,    they   brought  the   bread,    the    meat,   and   the 

'  Lit.  The  district  of  the  Papyrus,  the  Bucolics  of  the  Roman  period ; 
see  above,  p.  xli,  243. 

^  The  helmet  with  tlie  bull's  face  is  probably  the  helmet  with  the  bull's 
horns  that  is  seen,  worn  for  instance  by  the  Pharaohs  at  the  time  of 
Eamses  III ;  cf.  Champollion,  Monuments  de  VEgypte,  pi.  xxviii,  cxxi, 
cccxxvii,  and  Rosellini,  Monumenti  Storici,  pi.  101,  106,  129,  131. 

^  Gattani,  or  Gatatani,  is  a  country  unknown  up  to  the  present.  If 
it  should  really  be  read  (Jattani  or  Kattani,  one  might  consider 
Cataonia, 


250  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

wine  which  they  had  on  board,  they  placed  it  before  them, 
they  drank,  they  made  a  happy  day. 

Now,  while  they  turned  their  faces  to  the  bank,  in  the 
direction  of  the  diadems  of  Amon,  the  great  god,  while 
they  purified  themselves  with  salt  and  incense  before  him, 
Pharaoh  opened  his  mouth  for  a  great  cry,  saying,  "  By 
Amon,  the  great  god,  mourning  for  Pemu  is  finished, 
lamentations  for  Pesnufi  have  ceased ;  ^  more  mourning ! 
My  heart  is  now  all  preoccupied  by  these  herdsmen,  who 
have  come  on  board  the  bark  of  Amon  enclosed  in  their 
harness,  and  have  made  it  their  hall  of  festival."  Takhos, 
son  of  Ankhhoru,  said,  "My  great  lord,  Amon,  the  great 
god,  has  shown  himself;  let  Pharaoh  consult  him,  saying, 
"Is  it  thy  excellent  command  that  I  cause  the  host  of 
Egypt  to  arm  against  these  herdsmen,  to  deliver  Ankhhoru 
from  their  hands?"  Pharaoh  therefore  consulted  the 
diadems  of  Amon,  saying,  "  Is  it  thy  excellent  command 
that  I  cause  the  host  of  Egypt  to  arm  to  fight  against 
these  herdsmen  ?  "  Amon  made  the  sign  of  refusal,  saying, 
"No."  Pharaoh  said,  "Is  it  thy  excellent  order,  that  I 
cause  a  carrying-chair  to  be  brought,  on  which  to  place 
thee,  and  that  I  cover  thee  with  a  veil  of  byssus,  that 
thou  mayest  be  with  us  until  the  affair  is  ended  between 
us  and  these  herdsmen  ?  "  Amon  advanced  with  rapid  steps,^ 
and  he  said,  "  Let  one  be  brought."  Pharaoh  therefore 
caused  a  carrying-chair  to  be  brought,  he  placed  Amon 
therein,  he  covered  him  with  a  veil  of  byssus. 

And  then  after  that,  Pharaoh  Petubastis  was  with  the 
army  in  the  western  region  of  the  Said  opposite  Thebes,  and 
Amon,  the  great  god,  reposed  under  an  awning  of  byssus, 

'  Petubastis  no  doubt  alludes  here  to  the  same  incidents  that  he,  Pesnufi 
and  Pemu  refer  to  later  (cf .  pp.  255-256, 258),  and  which  are  related  either  in 
the  missing  part  of  this  story,  or  in  some  other  story,  now  lost.  Faced  by 
this  new  grief  that  falls  on  him  by  the  action  of  the  drovers,  he  will  think 
no  longer  of  the  sorrow  caused  him  by  the  affair  of  Pesnufi  and  Pemu. 

^  Cf.  above,  p.  246,  note  3,  for  the  meaning  of  this  expression. 


HIGH  EMPRISE   FOR  THE  THRONE  251 

while  the  host  of  Egypt  donned  its  armour,  and  the  thirteen 
herdsmen  remained  on  board  the  bark  of  Amon,  keeping 
Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  bound  in  the  hold  of  the  bark  of 
Amon,  because  they  had  no  fear  of  Pharaoh  in  their  hearts, 
nor  yet  of  the  diadems.  Pharaoh  raised  his  face,  and  he 
saw  them  on  the  bark  of  Amon.  Pharaoh  said  to  Pakrur, 
son  of  Pesnufi,  "  What  shall  we  do  about  those  herdsmen  who 
are  on  board  the  bark  of  Amon,  and  who  incite  revolt  and 
battle  before  Amon,  on  account  of  the  throne  which  accrued 
to  the  first  prophet  of  Horus,  and  which  now  belongs  to 
Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son  ?  Go,  say  to  the  young  priest,  arm 
thyself,  put  on  a  vestment  of  byssus,  go  in  before  the  talis- 
mans of  Amon,  and  become  the  first  prophet  before  Amon, 
when  he  comes  to  Thebes."  Pakrur  did  not  delay  to  go  and 
place  himself  in  front  of  the  bark  of  Amon,  and  when  he  was 
in  the  presence  of  the  herdsmen  he  told  them  all  the  words  that 
Pharaoh  said  to  him.  The  young  priest  said, ."  By  Horus  ! 
I  have  taken  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  prisoner,  and  thou 
comest  to  speak  to  me  in  the  name  of  his  father.'  Gro,  and 
carry  my  reply  to  Pharaoh,  saying,  '  Hast  thou  not  said ; 
come  to  the  bank,  put  on  byssus,  and  let  thy  hand  put 
away  the  weapons  of  war ;  if  not,  I  will  turn  against  thee 
the  host  of  Egypt,  and  I  will  cause  them  to  inflict  on  thee 
very  great  injury,  very  great  ? '  If  Pharaoh  will  adjudge  me 
the  throne,  let  them  also  bring  me  the  veil  of  byssus,  with 
the  talismans  of  gold  here  on  the  bark  of  Amon ;  then  I 
will  come  near  to  them,  and  I  will  lay  down  my  harness  of 
battle.     Therefore  let  them  bring  me  the  diadems  of  Amon 


'  Spiegelberg  has  remarked  that  there  was  a  gap  in  the  narrative  at  this 
point,  and  supposed  that  the  scribe  had  carelessly  omitted  the  speech  of 
Pakrdr  to  the  priest  of  Horus,  as  well  as  the  beginning  of  the  priest's  reply 
(Z?er  Sagenkreis  des  Konigs  Petubastis,  p.  21,  note  15).  The  analogy  with 
lines  19-21  of  the  same  page  leads  me  to  think  that  the  author  had  not 
placed  the  speech  directly  in  the  mouth  of  Pakrur,  and  that  only  the  first 
words  of  the  priest's  reply  are  missing.  I  have  given  the  probable  meaning 
in  a  few  words. 


252  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

on  board ;  I  will  take  the  pole  of  the  bark '  and  I  will 
take  Amon  to  Thebes,  being  alone  on  board  with  him  and 
the  thirteen  drovers,  for  I  have  not  allowed  any  man  in  the 
world  to  come  on  board  with  us."  Pakrur  went  to  the  place 
where  Pharaoh  was,  and  he  told  him  the  words  that  the 
young  priest  had  spoken  to  him.  Pharaoh  said  to  him, 
"  Life  of  Amon !  as  to  that  which  the  young  priest  spake, 
saying,  '  I  have  taken  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  thy  son, 
therefore  let  them  give  me  the  diadems  of  Amon,  I  will  take 
them  on  board,  and  the  next  day  I  will  depart  for  the  north 
with  them,  and  I  will  take  them  to  Buto,  my  city.'  If  it 
were  gold,  silver,  or  precious  stones  that  the  young  priest 
asked  of  me,  I  would  have  caused  them  to  be  given  him  ; 
but  I  will  not  give  him  the  diadems  for  him  to  carry  to 
Buto,  his  city,  and  for  him  to  make  a  great  concert  in 
Thebes."^ 

And  after  that,  the  general,  the  great  lord  of  Amon  in 
Thebes,  went  to  the  south  of  Thebes  to  honour  Montura, 
and  when  the  ceremonies  were  finished  in  presence  of 
Pharaoh,'  the  general,  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  rose 
in  front  of  him  and  said,  "My  great  lord,  the  talismans 
are  on  me  on  their  account,  and  thanks  to  that,  I  am  about 
to  captivate  thy  heart  by  that  which  is  about  to  happen 
to  these  drovers.  They  shall  not  reach  here,  on  account 
of  the  heritage  of  the  prophet  of  Amon,  but  if  they  wish 
that  there  should  be  battle  between  them  and  Pharaoh, 
I  will  give  battle."     He  put  on   his  harness,  he  went  to 


'  According  to  Egyptian  custom,  there  are  two  pilots  on  each  vessel : 
one  at  the  stem  who  works  the  radder-oars,  and  one  in  the  bows  with  a 
long  pole  in  his  hand,  who  sounds  the  channel  and  gives  directions  to  his 
comrade  in  the  stern.  Here  the  priest  of  Horus  takes  the  part  of  the 
pilot  in  the  bows  in  order  to  ensure  the  safe  arrival  at  Thebes  of  the  bark 
of  Amon. 

^  In  other  words,  "  that  he  may  celebrate  his  victorj'  over  us  by  singing 
thanksgivings  at  Thebes  itself." 

'  These  few  words  condense  what  I  believe  to  be  the  meaning  of  three 
lines  of  text  too  much  damaged  to  be  read  with  certainty. 


HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  THRONE  253 

place  himself  before  the  bark  of  Amon,  he  addressed  himself 
to  the  young  priest,  saying,  "Bethink  thee  well  of  the 
guilty  acts  which  have  been  done  by  thee  and  by  thy  men 
who  have  gone  up  on  board  the  bark  of  Amon,  you  who  have 
put  on  your  harness,  and  have  allowed  the  bark  of  Amon 
to  become  the  property  of  the  priest  of  another  god.  If 
thou  art  come  here  on  account  of  the  heritage  of  the  priest 
of  Amon,  come  on  shore  and  take  it,-  if  thou  art  here 
greedy  of  battle,  come  on  shore  and  I  will  give  thee  thy 
fill."  The  young  priest  said  to  him,  "  I  know  thee,  general, 
great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes ;  thou  art  a  man  of  the  great 
land  of  the  North  as  much  as  we,  and  thy  name  has  often 
reached  us  for  the  long  speeches  that  thou  hast  made.  I 
will  send  one  of  the  herd.smen  ashore  with  thee,  that  thou 
mayest  pass  an  hour  talking  with  him." '  The  young 
priest  cast  a  glance  over  the  thirteen  herdsmen  who  were 
on  board  with  him;  he  arose,  he  put  on  his  harness,  he 
went  down  to  the  bank,  he  encountered  the  general,  great 
lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  he  rose  up  against  him  as  a  nurse 
rises  against  her  nursling  when  he  is  naughty,  he  threw 
himself  on  the  chief  of  the  militia,  the  great  lord  of  Thebes, 
he  seized  him  under  his  cuirass,  he  flung  him  to  the  ground, 
he  bound  him,  he  put  him  on  his  feet,  he  led  him  on  board 
the  bark  of  Amon,  he  thrust  him  into  the  hold  where 
Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  was  already,  he  shut  down  the 
trap-door  on  him,  he  took  ofF  his  harness  in  order  to  wash 
himself  for  the  feast  with  the  priests,  his  companions.  The 
crew  went  to  pour  out  the  libation  of  wine;  they  drank, 
and  they  celebrated  a  festival  in  the  presence  of  Amon, 
under  the  eyes  of  Pharaoh,  and  in  the  sight  of  the  host 
of  Egypt. 

Then  Pharaoh  opened  his  mouth  with  a  great  cry,  and 
he  said,  "  When  I  sailed  towards  the  south,  the  galley  of 
Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  sailed  at  the  head  of  the  fleet 
'  This  must  be  taken  ironically,  as  mocking  the  general. 


264  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

that  bore  Pharaoh  with  the  host  of  Egj^t,  a  golden  buckler 
hoisted  at  the  top  of  his  mast,  for,  said  he,  '  I  am  the  first 
buckler  of  Egypt.'  And  the  great  galley  of  the  great  lord  of 
Amon  in  Thebes  sailed  at  the  rear  of  the  fleet  of  Pharaoh, 
for,  said  he,  'I  am  the  great  vessel  of  Egypt.'  And  now 
a  young  herdsman  is  come  to  the  south,  who  has  taken  the 
first  buckler  of  Egypt  and  the  great  vessel  of  Egypt;  he 
makes  Egypt  to  tremble  like  a  disabled  vessel  that  no 
pilot  steers,  and  he  is  stronger  than  all  these  men,  as 
well  as  Amon,  the  great  god  who  is  on  the  west  of  the 
Said,  opposite  Karnak ;  he  has  not  allowed  him  to  return 
to  Karnak."  Takhos  said,  "  Beware,  my  great  master.  If 
the  host  of  Egypt  does  not  arm  against  these  herdsmen, 
they  will  remain  as  they  now  are  ;  let  the  men  of  Pharaoh 
be  called  together  against  them."  Pakrur  spake  to  Takhos, 
saying,  "  Is  not  that  which  thou  sayest  madness,  and  have 
not  those  yielded  who  provoked  the  herdsmen,  who  have 
taken  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  and  the  general,  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  of  Thebes.  The  host  could  not  rescue  even 
one  of  them.  That  which  thou  hast  spoken,  saying,  'Let 
the  host  of  Egypt  arm  themselves  against  them,'  will  not 
this  cause  the  drovers  to  make  a  great  carnage  ?  and  since 
Amon,  the  great  god,  is  here  with  us,  has  it  ever  happened 
to  us  to  undertake  an3d;hing  whatsoever  in  the  world  without 
consulting  him  ?  Let  Pharaoh  consult  him,  and  if  he  says 
to  us,  ' Battle,'  we  will  fight;  but  if  he  commands  otherwise, 
we  will  act  in  accordance."  Pharaoh  said,  "  The  advice  is 
good  which  comes  from  the  prince  of  the  East,  Pakrur." 

When  Pharaoh  had  commanded  that  Amon  should  appear, 
Pharaoh  went  to  meet  him.  Orisons  and  prayers  he  made, 
saying,  "  My  great  lord,  Amon,  great  god,  is  it  thy  excellent 
command  that  I  cause  the  host  of  Egypt  to  arm  against 
these  herdsmen,  to  do  battle  with  them  ?  "  Amon  made  the 
gesture  of  refusal,  saying,  "  No."  Pharaoh  said,  "  My  great 
lord,  Amon,  great  god,  is  it  thy  excellent   command  that. 


HIGH  EMPRISE   FOR  THE  THRONE  265 

if  I  abandon  the  throne  which  was  in  the  heritage  of  the 
prophet  of  Amon  to  the  young  priest,  he  shall  restore 
their  liberty  to  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  and  the  great 
lord  of  Amon  of  Thebes?"  Amon  made  the  gesture  of 
refusal,  saying,  "No."  Pharaoh  said,  "My  great  lord, 
Amon,  great  god,  shall  these  herdsmen  take  Egypt  out  of 
my  hands  in  the  position  they  now  hold  ?  "  Amon  made 
the  gesture  of  refusal,  saying,  "No."  Pharaoh  said,  "My 
great  lord,  wilt  thou  give  me  victory  over  these  herdsmen, 
that  they  may  abandon  the  bark  of  Amon  ? "  Amon 
advanced  with  rapid  steps,'  and  behold,  he  said,  "  Yes." 
Pharaoh  recited  before  Amon,  the  great  god,  the  names 
of  the  chieftains,  the  generals  of  the  host,  the  princes, 
the  commandants  of  chariots,  the  officers  of  the  militia,  the 
captains  of  the  militia,  and  the  chiefs  of  the  reserve  of 
the  men  of  Egypt,  and  Amon,  the  great  god,  approved 
of  none  of  them,  Amon  approved  only  of  the  prince  Pesnufi, 
and  the  captain  of  militia,  Pemu,  saying,  "  These  are  they 
whom  I  take  to  chase  away  the  herdsmen  in  whose  hands 
is  the  bark  of  Amon ;  these  are  they  who  shall  deliver 
Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  and  the  general,  the  great  lord  of 
Amon  in  Thebes;  these  are  they  who  shall  lead  to  battle 
the  young  troops  of  Thebes." 

When  Pharaoh  had  designated  by  Amon  the  chiefs  of 
the  appropriation,  Pharaoh  cast  a  glance  at  Pakrur,  the 
chief  of  the  East;  he  spake  to  him,  and  he  laid  before 
Amon  the  questions  that  he  asked.  The  chief  of  the  East 
said,  "  If  it  please  Pharaoh,  let  some  one  be  sent  to  the 
young  troops  of  Thebes,  who  shall  come  south,  and  then 
they  will  do  all  that  Pharaoh  shall  command  them." 
Pharaoh  said,  "  Amon  preserve  me  from  that !  It  matters 
not  whom  I  send  to  them  to  the  south,  they  will  not 
come  because  of  the  affront  that  I  put  upon  them  when 
I  went  south  to  Thebes,  and  when  I  did  not  invite  them 
'  For  the  meaning  of  this  expression  see  p.  246,  note  3. 


256  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

to  the  feast  of  Amon,  the  great  god,  my  father.'     Chief 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  it  falls  to  thee  to  send  them  a  message, 
in    case    some  one  must  send  them  a  message ;    but  they 
will  not  come  south  for  me."     The  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur, 
said,  "  My  great  lord,  the  affronts  that  thou  hast  put  on  the 
young  troops  are  great ;  one  time  after  another  thou  hast 
not  thought  of  the  men  of  war  until  thou  hast  caused  them 
to  be  rejoiced  by  thy  misfortunes."     Pharaoh  said,  "  Amon, 
the  great  god,  protect  me !     It  is  not  I  who  have  aflFronted 
them,  but  is  it  not  the  evil  intrigues  of  Takhos,  the  son 
of  Ankhhoru  ?     It  is  he  who  has  caused  me  to  leave  them, 
so  that  I  did  not  bring  them  with  me ;  for  he  said,  '  Dis- 
sension and  quarrels  should  not  be  spread  abroad  among 
the  host  of  Egypt.'  ^      And  after  that,  he  who  spreads  his 
nets,  they  will  catch  him;    he  who  digs  a  perfidious  pit, 
he  will  fall  into  it ;  he  who  sharpens  a  sword,  it  will  cut 
his  throat.     Now  behold,  the   brothers-at-arms   of  Takhos, 
the   son  of  Ankhhoru,  are  in  the  bonds  of  the  herdsmen, 
and  no  man  can  be  found  to  fight  for   them.     And  after 
that,  dispute  not  about  words,'  but  act." 

The  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  sent  a  message  to  the 
young  warriors,  saying,  "  Come  south,  for  thy  glory  and  thy 
power,  for  they  are  demanded  in  the  host  of  Egypt."  The 
chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  said,  "  Let  Higa,  the  son  of 
Minnebmei,  my  scribe,  be  called."  One  ran  and  returned, 
and  he  was  brought  immediately,  and  the  chief  of  the 
East,  Pakrur,  said  to  him,  "  Make  a  letter,  and  let  it  be 
carried  to  Pisapdi,*  to  the  place  where  prince  Pesnufi  is." 
Here  is  the  copy :  "  The  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  son  of 

'  The  episode  to  which  Petubastis  alludes  is  probably  recorded  in  the 
first  pages  of  the  papyrus,  that  are  now  lost. 

^  It  appears  that  these  Tbeban  bands  had  the  reputation  of  being 
turbulent  and  quarrelsome;  Takh6s  advised  Pharaoh  to  let  them  return 
home,  alleging  as  a  reason  that  they  were  an  element  of  discord  in  the 
army. 

^  Lit.  "  do  not  set  one  word  against  its  companion." 

■*  Pisapdi  is  the  Saft-el-Hineh  of  to-day. 


HIGH   EMPRISE  FOR   THE   THRONE  257 

Pesnufi,  father  of  the  bulls  of  Egypt,  good  shepherd  of  the 
calasiries,'  salutes  Prince  Pesnufi,  his  son,  the  powerful  bull 
of  those  of  Pisapdi,  the  lion  of  those  of  the  East,  the  wall 
of  brass  which  Isis  has  given  me,  the  iron  stake  of  the  lady 
of  Tasonut,  the  beautiful  bark  of  Egypt,  in  which  the  host 
of  Egypt  has  placed  its  heart.     If  it  please  thee,  my  son 
Pesnufi,  when  this  letter  reaches  thee,  if  thou  art  eating, 
lay  down  the  bread,  if  thou  art  drinking,  put  down  the  jug 
that  makes  drunk,  come,  come,  hasten,  hasten,  and  embark 
with  thy  brothers-at-arms,  thy  fifty-sis  men  of  the  East, 
thy  brother-at-arms,  Pemu,  the  son  of  Inaros,  with  his  new 
bark,  the  Star,^  and  his  four  chaplains.     Come  to  the  south  of 
Thebes,  on  account  of  certain  herdsmen  of  the  Bucolics,  who 
are  here  at  Thebes,  fighting  each  day  with  Pharaoh.     They 
allow  no   one  to   attain   to  Amon   nor  to    Karnak ;    Amon 
dwells    exiled   on  the   west   of  Thebes  beneath  the  veil  of 
byssus,  and  the  host  of  Egypt  trembles  before  his  violence 
and  bloodshed.    Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  the  son  of  Pharaoh 
Petubastis,  and   the   general,  the   great   lord  of  Amon  in 
Thebes,  are  prisoners  of  the  herdsmen  ;  they  are  on  board  the 
bark  of  Amon.     Come  to  the  south,  give  battle,  and  let  the 
host  of  Egypt  learn  to  know  the  fear  and  the  terror  that 
thou  inspirest."     The  letter  was  closed,  it  was  sealed  with 
the  seal  of  the  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  it  was  placed  in 
the  hands  of  Hakoris,  and  he  hastened   to   the   north    by 
night  as  by  day.     After  several  days,  he  arrived  at  Pisapdi ; 
he   went   without   delay   to  the  place   where  Pesnufi  was. 
He  gave  him  the  letter.     Pesnufi  read  it,  he  heard  every 
word    it    contained,    he    growled   like   the   sea,  he   boiled 
like  resin    [which   is   burning],    he    said :  "  This    fisher    of 
eels    of   Tanis,    this    trap   hidden    in    the    reeds    of    Buto, 
Petubastis,  son   of  Ankhhoru,  whom   I   have   never   called 

'  For  this  word,  which  designates  certain  troops  of  the  Egyptian  army, 
of.  Herodotus  II,  obdv,  clxvi,  clxviii  ;  cf.  above,  pp.  247,  252. 

^  The  royal  bark  from  the  earliest  times  was  called  the  Star,  or  at  full 
length  tlie  Star  of  the  gods. 


268  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT   EGYPT 

Pharaoh,    when   he  does  honour  to   me,   it   is    because   he 
needs    me    against    injury    done    to    him,    but    when    he 
goes    to  celebrate    the    festival    of  his   god,    and   there   is 
neither  war  nor  battle  against  him,  he   sends  me  no  mes- 
sage.     I  swear  here,  this  is    what  I  will  do  in  the  name 
of  Sapdi,   chief  of  the    East,    my   god.      Since   the   chief 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  my  father,  has  written   to  me  in  this 
letter,  saying,  "  Amon,  the  great  god,  in  the  west  part  of 
the  Said,  which  is  opposite  Karnak,  is  not  allowed  to  return 
to  Thebes,  because  no  one  will  fight  for    the  children   of 
Tahuris,  the  daughter  of  Patenefi.'     And  after  that,  neither 
I  nor  my  brothers-at-arms,  the  fifty-six  men  of  the  East,  we 
will  no  longer  remember  the  injury  that  Amon  has  done  me. 
Our  eight  chaplains  have  embarked,  and  they  have  put  on 
their  harness,  to  repair  to  the  south  of  Thebes.     Depart, 
running   hound   of  Sapdi,  servant  of  the  throne,^   do   not 
delay,  go  to  Heliopolis.     Speak  to  Pemu,  the  son  of  Inaros, 
saying,  '  Put  on  thy  harness,  arm  thy  new  vessel  of  cedar 
and  thy  four  chaplains.      I  will   meet  with  thee  and  thy 
crew  at  Pinebothes,  the  port  of  Heliopolis.'  ^     The  servant 
of  the  throne  did  not  delay  to  repair  to  Heliopolis  ;  he  stood 
before  Pemu,  and  he  repeated  all  that  Pesnufi  had  said  to 
him,   "  Do  thus."     Pesnufi  put  on  his  harness,  and   so  did 
his  fifty-six  men  of  the  East,  and  his  eight  chaplains ;  he 
embarked,  he  delayed  not  to  repair  to  Pinebothes,  and  he 
there  met  with  Pemu,  who  was  on  his  galley,  with  his  new 
vessel  named  the  Star,  and  his  four  chaplains,    and  they 
sailed  for  the  south  of  Thebes. 

'  Tahuris  is  probably  the  mother  of  Petubastis. 

^  The  messenger,  acting  for  Petubastis  and  Amon,  might  in  fact  be 
called  a  servant  of  the  throne 

^  Lit.  "  My  mooring  stake  with  thee  and  thy  [crew  is]  at  PiuebSthes, 
the  port  of  landing  for  Heliopolis."  The  stake  Pesnufi  speaks  of  is  that 
which  Egyptian  sailors  thrust  into  the  bank  and  tie  their  boat  to 
(cf.  above,  p.  257),  "  the  iron  stake  of  the  lady  of  Tasonlit."  The  Egyptian 
expression,  which  is  obscure  to  us,  seems  to  be  capable  of  being  para- 
phrased as  I  have  rendered  it  in  the  text. 


HIGH  EMPRISE  FOR  THE  THRONE  269 

And  after  that,  when  Pharaoh  Petubastis  was  with  the 
army  on  the  western  bank  of  the  Said,  opposite  Thebes,  and 
that  the  host  of  Egypt  was  all  armed,  Pharaoh  went  up  on 
to  the  bark  of  Anxon,  looking  at  the  side  opposite  to  that 
by  which  Pesnufi  and  Pemu,  the  son  of  Inaros,  should 
arrive.  At  the  end  of  an  hour  Pharaoh  perceived  a  new 
galley  of  cedar  which  descended  the  stream.  When  it  had 
reached  the  quay  of  Amon  of  Thebes,  a  man-at-arms  leapt 
on  to  it,  his  cuirass  on  his  back,  and  crossed  in  it  to  the 
west  side  of  the  Said,  to  the  south  of  the  vessel  of  Pharaoh. 
The  man  came  ofif  it  on  to  the  bank,  armed  from  head  to 
foot,  like  a  homed  bull.  He  went  up  with  great  strides 
farther  up  stream  than  the  bark  of  Amon  without  going 
as  far  as  the  place  where  Pharaoh  was,  and  he  spake  in 
front  of  the  host,  saying,  "  Oh,  may  the  good  Genius '  grant 
life  to  Pharaoh  !  I  know  the  crime  you  have  committed  in 
going  on  board  the  bark  of  Amon,  cuirass  on  back,  and  giving 
it  over  to  a  priest  who  is  not  his."  The  prophet  of  Horus 
of  Pal  said  to  him,  "  Who  art  thou  who  speakest  thus  ? 
Art  thou  a  man  of  Tanis,  or  art  thou  a  man  of  Mendes  ?  " 
The  armed  man  said  to  him,  "  I  was  not  born  in  that  land 
of  the  North  of  which  thou  speakest.  I  am  Minnebmel, 
son  of  Inaros,  the  great  prince  of  Elephantine,  the  chief 
of  the  south  of  Egypt."  The  herdsman  ^  said  to  him,  "  Since 
thou  art  not  a  man  of  the  land  of  the  North,  why  has 
Pharaoh  put  the  bark  of  Amon  under  thy  charge  ?  Now ! 
come  on  board  with  us  and  make  a  happy  day  before  Amon, 
and  that  which  happens  to  us  concerning  it  will  happen 
also  to  thee."  And  after  that,  Minnebmel  said  to  him, 
"  May  Khnumu  the  great  lord  of  Elephantine,  protect  me  ! 

'  Psliai,  the  Agathodemou,  often  represented  under  the  form  of  a  round- 
faced  serpent  crowned  with  the  pschent.  He  is  the  ancient  Shat,  destiny : 
his  cult,  secondary  in  Pharaonio  times,  developed  considerably  under  the 
Ptolemies  and  Caesars. 

^  The  herdsman  here  is  not  one  of  the  thirteen  who  accompanied  the 
priest  of  Bfito ;  it  is  the  priest  himself. 


260  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

You  cannot  atone  for  the  crime  you  have  committed.  If 
I  allowed  myself  to  embark  and  pass  a  happy  day  with  you, 
it  would  be  a  declaration  of  war  against  Pharaoh.  Now, 
that  which  I  speak,  I  do  it  to  you :  open  the  road  to  Amon, 
that  he  may  go  to  Thebes  ;  if  not,  that  which  you  do,  I  will 
make  you  do  it  by  force,  notwithstanding  your  unwilling- 
ness." One  of  the  thirteen  herdsmen  rose  up  and  said,  "  I 
come  to  thee,  negro,  Ethiopian,  eater  of  gums,'  man  of 
Elephantine."  He  put  on  his  armour,  he  hastened  to  the 
bank,  he  struck,  he  fought  with  Minnebmei  up-stream  from 
the  bark  of  Amon,  from  the  moment  of  the  first  hour  of 
the  morning  till  the  moment  of  the  eighth  hour  of  the  day, 
under  the  eyes  of  Pharaoh  and  in  the  sight  of  the  host  of 
Egypt,  each  of  them  showing  the  other  a  knowledge  of 
weapons,  and  neither  one  of  them  could  triumph  over  the 
other.  Pharaoh  said  to  the  chief  of  the  East,  Pakrur,  and 
to  Takhos,  the  son  of  Ankhhoru,  ''  Life  of  Amon  !  There 
is  a  combat  that  endures  in  the  lists,  but  afterwards  I  do 
not  know  how  our  fortune  will  be  maintained  ^  to  the  moment 
of  the  tenth  hour  of  evening."  The  herdsman  spake  to  Min- 
nebmei, saying,  "  To-day  we  have  fought ;  let  us  end  the 
combat  and  fight  between  us,  let  us  each  lay  down  our 
flag.^  He  who  does  not  return  here  will  be  disgraced." 
Minnebmei  assented  to  the  words  that  he  had  spoken  ;  they 
each  of  them  laid  down  their  flags,  they  went  out  of  the 
lists,  and  the  drover  went  on  board  the  bark  of  Amon. 

And  after  that,  when  Minnebmei  returned  on  board  his 
galley,  Pharaoh  betook  himself  to  meet  him  with  the  chief 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  and  with  Takhos,  the  son  of  Ankhhoru. 
They  said  to  him,  "  Is  there  a  man  who  goes  into  the  lists, 

'  Cf.  for  this  expression,  p.  154,  note  1,  and  p.  223,  note  1  above. 

^  Lit.  "  the  foot  of  this  combat  is  stable  on  the  lists,  but  afterwards  I 
do  not  know  what  our  luck  will  do  to  them."  I  have  been  forced  to  para- 
phrase this  paragraph  very  considerably  to  make  it  intelligible  to  modern 
readers. 

^  Cf.  for  this  expression,  p.  2.33,  note  2. 


HIGH  EMPRISE   FOR  THE  THRONE  261 

and  comes  out,  without  going  immediately  to  the  place 
where  Pharaoh  is,  that  the  reward  of  his  combat  may  be 
given  him?"  The  calasiris  went  to  the  place  where  Pharaoh 
was ;  he  took  off  his  helmet  from  his  head,  he  bowed  himself 
to  the  ground,  he  uttered  the  salutation,  and  he  then  kissed 
the  ground.'  Pharaoh  perceived  him,  and  when  he  had 
recognised  him,  he  advanced  to  the  place  where  he  was,  he 
folded  him  in  his  arms,  he  placed  his  mouth  on  his  mouth, 
he  kissed  him  at  length  in  the  manner  in  which  a  man 
salutes  his  betrothed.^  Pharaoh  said  to  him,  "  Hail  to  thee, 
hail  to  thee,  Minnebmei,  son  of  Inaros,  chief  of  the  south 
of  Egypt.  It  was  that  which  I  asked  of  Amon,  the  great 
god,  that  he  would  grant  me  to  see  thee  without  injury  to 
thy  excellent  strength  and  health.'  Life  of  Amon !  the 
great  god,  at  the  hour  that  I  beheld  thee  in  the  lists  I  said, 
"  No  man  will  do  battle  for  me,  if  he  is  not  a  bull,  son  of 
a  bull,  and  a  lion,  son  of  a  lion,  like  myself"  Pakrur,  the 
son  of  Pesnufi,  and  Takhos,  the  son  of  Ankhhoru,  and  the 
great  ones  of  Egypt  seized  his  hand,  and  spake  words  to 

•  Here  for  the  first  time  we  find  all  the  moments  of  the  Egyptian 
proscynema  enumerated:  1st,  the  hero  prostrates  himself  on  his  hands 
and  knees,  the  spine  bent,  but  the  head  slightly  raised;  2nd,  he  repeats 
the  ordinary  formula  of  salutation ;  3rd,  he  bows  his  head  and  kisses  the 
ground  between  his  hands.  Sinuhit  saluted  in  somewhat  the  same  fashion, 
but  he  meanwhile  threw  dust  over  his  body  (of.  p.  87,  note  5).  That  was 
no  doubt  to  express  his  humility ;  the  ordinary  proscynema  did  not 
include  this  supplementary  proceeding.  Another  point  of  etiquette  for- 
bade Pharaoh  to  appear  to  notice  the  presence  of  any  person ;  he  only 
recognised  him  after  a,  certain  interval,  probably  indicated  by  one  of  his 
ofScials,  and  it  was  then  only  that  he  addressed  him,  or  on  great  occasions 
made  a  few  steps  towards  him  to  raise  him  up,  to  embrace  and  receive  him. 

^  Lit.  "  he  kissed  him  many  hours " — one  of  those  exaggerated  formulae 
of  which  I  have  given  an  example  (p.  4,  note  2).  The  kiss  on  the  mouth 
had  replaced  the  ancient  greeting  of  placing  the  noses  together  (of.  p.  104, 
note  4),  perhaps  under  Greek  influence,  at  least  in  official  ceremonies. 

"  I.e.,  if  I  understand  it  correctly,  come  safe  and  sound  out  of  the  fight 
against  the  drover.  The  word  I  have  translated  strength  Is  the  same  used 
in  the  Voyage  of  Unamunu  to  designate  the  condition  of  epileptic  ecstasy 
into  which  the  page  of  the  king  of  Byblos  falls  (of.  p.  208).  Here  it  marks 
the  mysterious  power  that  animates  MlnnebmSt  by  the  inspiration  of  Amon, 
and  which  up  to  this  moment  enables  him  to  withstand  the  herdsman. 
22 


262  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

him ;  and  Pharaoh  came  with  him  under  the  hangings  of 
his  tent.  And  after  that,  Mmnebmei  went  up  on  to  his 
galley,  and  Pharaoh  caused  perfumes  and  provisions  to  be 
given  him  in  plenty,  and  the  great  ones  of  Egypt  loaded 
him  with  gifts.  Minnebmei  fought  three  days.  When  the 
three  days  were  accomplished  in  the  lists,  during  which  he 
went  to  fight  with  the  herdsman,  and  he  came  out  safe  and 
sound,  without  one  being  able  to  do  anything  to  him,  the 
host  of  Egypt  spake  among  themselves,  saying,  "There  is 
no  clan  of  men-at-arms  in  Egypt  who  equal  the  clan  of  the 
Osiris  King  Inaros,  for  Ankhhoru,  the  royal  son,  and  the 
general,  great  lord  of  Amon  in  Thebes,  they  could  not  stand  a 
single  day  of  fighting  against  those  herdsmen ;  while  through- 
out three  days,  Minnebmei  has  been  constantly  in  the  lists 
while  no  one  could  do  anything  to  him." 

Now,  while  it  was  thus,  Pesnufi  and  Pemu  arrived  at  the 
South ;  they  arrived  with  their  galleys  at  the  south  of 
the  vessel  of  Pharaoh,  they  flew  to  the  bank,  cuirass  on 
back.  When  it  was  announced  to  Pharaoh  and  to  the  chief 
of  the  East,  Pakrur,  as  well  as  to  Takhos,  son  of  Ankhhoru, 
Pharaoh  betook  himself  to  meeting  with  them,  and  he  seized 
the  hand  of  Prince  Pesnufi.  .  .  . 

After  several  lines  which  are  too  much  damaged  for  me  to 
attempt  to  translate  them,  the  manuscript  breaks  off,  and  there  is 
no  indication  as  to  how  many  more  pages  there  were.  One  guesses 
that  as  soon  as  Pesnufi  and  Pemu  arrive,  fortune  will  turn  in 
favour  of  Petubastis  ;  the  thirteen  herdsmen  will  be  slain  or  made 
prisoners  as  well  as  their  chief,  the  bark  of  Amon  will  return 
into  the  possession  of  the  Theban  priesthood,  and  the  throne  of 
Amon,  the  subject  of  the  quarrel,  will  remain  in  the  hands 
of  Prince  Ankhhoru.' 

'  Spiegelberg,  Der  Sagenkreis  des  Konigs  Petuhagtis,  pp.  7,  35. 


FRAGMENTS 


The  foregoing  stories  are  sufficient  to  give  the  general  public  an  idea 
of  the  romantic  literature  of  the  Egyptians.  I  might  without 
inconvenience  have  stopped  after  the  High  Emprise  for  the  Throne 
of  Amon  ;  none  of  my  readers  would  have  demanded  the  publication 
of  the  fragments  that  follow.  I  have  thought,  however,  that  there 
was  some  interest  that  should  not  be  neglected  in  these  poor  remains  ; 
if  those  of  literary  tastes  see  nothing  of  importance  in  them,  scholars 
will  perhaps  find  it  worth  while  not  to  ignore  them  entirely. 

In  the  first  place,  their  very  number  clearly  proves  how  many  of 
the  kind  to  which  they  belong  were  popular  in  the  valley  of  the 
Nile  ;  it  provides  one  more  argument  in  favour  of  the  hypothesis 
that  places  the  origin  of  some  of  our  folk  tales  in  Egypt.  Also, 
some  of  them  are  not  so  mutilated  that  it  is  impossible  to  find 
anything  of  interest  in  them.  No  doubt  twelve  or  fifteen  lines  of 
text  can  never  be  interesting  to  read  as  a  mere  matter  of  curiosity  ; 
a  specialist  may  perhaps  gather  from  them  some  detail  in  which  he 
will  recognise  an  incident  known  to  him  otherwise,  or  the  hieroglyph 
version  of  a  narrative  still  possessed  by  different  nationalities.  The 
benefit  would  be  a  double  one ;  Egyptologists  would  thus  gain  material 
to  enable  them  to  reconstitute,  at  least  approximately,  cei-tain  works 
that  without  it  would  remain  incomprehensible  to  them  ;  and  the 
others  would  have  the  satisfaction  of  proving  the  existence,  at  the 
remote  period  of  the  manuscript,  of  a  story  of  which  they  had  only 
much  later  redactions. 

I  have  therefore  collected  in  the  following  pages  the  remains  of 
six  stories  of  various  periods. 

1.  A  .fantastic  story,  the  composition  of  which  is  anterior  to  the 
eighteenth  dynasty  ; 

2.  The  quarrel  of  ApSpi  and  Saqnflnriya  ; 

3.  Some  scraps  of  a  ghost  story  ; 

4.  The  story  of  a  mariner  ; 

5.  A  small  Greek  fragment  relating  to  the  King  Nectanebo  II ; 

6.  Several  scattered  pages  of  a  Coptic  version  of  the  romance  of 
Alexander. 

263 


264  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

I  regret  that  I  have  been  unable  to  add  either  the  romance  of  the 
Cairo  Museum,  or  the  first  story  of  St.  Petersburg  ;  the  Cairo 
manuscript  is  so  mutilated  that  nothing  can  be  made  out  con- 
secutively, and  the  St.  Petersburg  text  is  not  yet  edited.  I  may 
perhaps  succeed  in  filling  up  this  gap  if  at  some  future  time  I  am 
permitted  to  undertake  a  fifth  edition  of  this  book. 


FRAGMENT      /__ 

OF  A   FANTASTIC  STORY,   ANTERIOR  TO   THE   EIGHTEENTH 
DYNASTY 

The  Berlin  Papyrus  No.  3  includes  the  fragments  of  two  works  : 
a  philosophical  dialogue  between  an  Egyptian  and  his  soul,^  and  a 
fantastic  story.  It  appears  that  the  story  began  at  line  156,  and 
it  occupied  the  last  thirty-six  lines  of  the  manuscript  as  it  exists 
at  present  (11.  156-191)  ;  it  is  impossible  to  estimate  exactly  what 
is  missing  from  the  end ;  all  that  can  be  said  now  is  that  the 
lines  with  which  the  narrative  opens  were  anciently  effaced.  A 
second  edition  of  the  text  has  been  given  in  phototype  by  Alan 
H.  Gardiner,  Die  Erzahlung  des  Sinuhe  und  die  Hirtengeschichte, 
in  vol.  iv.  of  Hieratische  Texten  des  Mittleren  Eeiches  by  Erman, 
folio,  Leipzig,  1909,  pi.  xvi,  xvii.  It  was  translated  for  the  first 
time  into  French  by  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  i,  p.  73 
et  seq.,  then  into  German  by  Erman,  Aics  den  Papyrus  der 
Kdniglichen  Museen,  1899,  pp.  20-30,  and  by  Alan  H.  Gardiner, 
Die  Erzahlung  des  Sinuhe  und  die  Hirtengeschichte,  pp.  14,  15. 

Now  behold,  as  I  went  down  to  the  marsh  which  adjoins 

that  wadi,  I  saw  there  a  woman  who  had  not  the  appearance 

of  a  mortal ;  my  hair  rose  up  when  I  perceived  her  tresses, 

by  the  variety  of  their   colour.     I  could  make  nothing  of 

that  which  she   spake  to  me,  so  much  had  the   terror  of 

her  penetrated  my  limbs. 

I  Erman,  after  giving  a  short  analysis  of  it  in  his  ^gypten,  pp.  393-394, 
published,  transcribed,  and  translated  it  in  a  special  memoir,  entitled 
Gesprach  eines  Mudenleions  init  leiner  Seele,  which  was  inserted  in  the 
Abhandlungen  der  Berliner  Akademie,  1896  ;  he  has  given  a  new  analysis 
and  long  fragments  of  it  in  the  volume  entitled  Aus  den  Paipyms  der 
Kdniglichen  Mmeen,  1889,  pp.  54-59,  and  in  his  JEgyptisohe  Chrestomathie, 
1904,  pp.  33-55  and  16*-17*. 

265 


266  STORIES   OF  ANCIEl^  EGYPT 

I  say  to  you,  "  Oh  bulls  let  us  pass  the  ford !  oh  that  the 
calves  had  crossed,  and  that  the  small  cattle  were  resting  at 
the  opening  of  the  marsh,  the  shepherds  behind  them,  while 
our  canoe  in  which  we  take  the  bulls  and  the  cows  across, 
remained  behind,  and  that  those  of  the  shepherds  who  are 
skilful  in  magic  things  recite  a  charm  over  the  water  in 
these  words  :  '  My  double  exults,  oh  shepherds,  oh  men,  I  do 
not  avoid  this  marsh  during  this  year  of  the  great  Mle  in 
which  the  god  decrees  his  decrees  concerning  the  earth,  and 
in  which  one  cannot  distinguish  the  pool  from  the  river. 
Eeturn  to  thy  house,  while  the  cows  remain  in  their  place  ! 
Come,  for  thy  fear  perishes  and  thy  terror  is  about  to  perish, 
the  fury  of  the  goddess  Uasrit  and  the  fear  of  the  Lady  of 
the  two  lands' " 

The  next  day  at  daybreak,  while  that  was  being  done  as 
he  had  said,  this  goddess  met  him  when  he  went  to  the 
pool ;  she  went  to  him,  denuded  of  her  vestments,  her  hair 
dishevelled.  .  .  . 

The  story  the  existence  of  which  is  proved  by  this  fragment 
was  written  before  the  XVIIIth  dynasty,  perhaps  in  the  Xllth, 
if,  as  is  the  case  in  the  dialogue  contained  in  the  first  Unes  of 
the  manuscript,  the  text  we  now  possess  is  a  copy  executed 
from  a  more  ancient  manuscript.  The  country  and  the  scenes 
described  are  borrowed  from  nature  and  from  Egyptian  customs. 
We  are  on  the  borders  of  one  of  those  sheets  of  water,  half 
marsh,  half  pool,  on  which  the  nobles  of  the  Ancient  Empire 
loved  to  hunt  birds,  the  crocodile,  and  the  hippopotamus.  The 
shepherds  are  chatting,  and  one  of  them  tells  the  other  that 
he  has  met  with  a  mysterious  creature  who  inhabits  an  in- 
accessible retreat  in  the  middle  of  the  water.  In  the  tomb  of 
Ti,  the  shepherds  are  seen  driving  the  bulls  and  their  heifers 
across  a  canal.  Men  and  beasts  are  in  the  water  half  way  up 
their  legs,  and  one  of  the  drovers  is  carr3dng  an  unfortunate 
calf  on  his  back  to  save  it  from  the  force  of  the  current. 
Farther  on,  other  shepherds,  in  light  reed  boats,  are  convoying 
a  second  herd  of  oxen  across  another  canal  which  is  deeper. 
Two  crocodiles,  placed  on  each  side  of  the  picture,  are  present 


FRAGMENT   OF  A  FANTASTIC  STORY  267 

at  this  procession,  but  are  unable  to  profit  by  the  occasion ; 
incantations  have  rendered  them  motionless.  As  the  accompany- 
ing legend  points  out,  the  face  of  the  shepherd  is  all-powerful 
on  the  canals,  "  and  those  who  are  in  the  water  are  struck 
with  blindness."  1  Our  story  shows  us  the  drovers  who  under- 
stood their  business  walking  behind  their  herds  and  reciting  the 
formulae  intended  to  conjure  away  the  perils  of  the  river.  The 
Harris  magical  papyrus  contains  several  charms  directed  against 
the  crocodile  and,  more  generally,  against  all  dangerous  animals 
that  live  in  the  water.  ^  They  are  too  long  and  too  complicated 
to  have  served  for  daily  use ;  ordinary  charms  were  short,  and 
easy  to  remember. 

It  is  not  easy  to  guess  with  any  certainty  what  was  the 
theme  here  developed.  The  Arab  authors  who  have  written  on 
Egypt  are  full  of  marvellous  stories,  where  a  woman  correspond- 
ing to  the  description  in  our  story  plays  the  principal  part. 
"  It  is  said  that  the  spirit  of  the  Southern  Pyramid  never 
appears  outside  except  in  the  form  of  a  nude  woman,  beautiful, 
and  whose  ways  are  such  that  when  she  wishes  to  inspire  some 
one  with  love,  and  cause  him  to  lose  his  reason,  she  smiles  at 
him,  and,  incontinently,  he  approaches  her,  and  she  draws  him 
to  her,  and  makes  him  distracted  with  love,  so  that  he  immedi- 
ately loses  his  reason  and  runs  wild  about  the  country.  Several 
persons  have  seen  her  circling  around  the  Pyramid  at  midday 
and  at  sunset."  '  The  author  of  this  fragment  certainly  affirms 
that  the  being  with  whom  he  places  his  hero  in  communication 
is  a  goddess, — nutrit — ,  but  this  is  a  statement  which  we  need  not 
take  literally ;  she  is  a  goddess,  if  iwe  please,  such  as  are  her 
cousins,  the  nymphs  of  the  Greek  and  Roman  religions,  but  she  has 
no  claim  to  an  official  cult  such  as  is  practised  in  the  temples.* 
Let  us  say,  then,  that  she  is  a  nymph,  nude,  and  vrith  hair  of 

'  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  ii,  pp.  106-110. 

''  Chabas,  Le  Papyrus  magique  Harris,  Chdlons-sur-Saone,  1860,  pp.  20 
et  seq.,  92  et  seg. 

"  L'^GYPTE  DB  MvETADi  FILS  DV  GAPHIPHE,  oA  il  est  traits  des 
Pyramides,  du  debordement  du  Nil,  et  des  autres  merueilles  de  cette 
Pi'oumce,  selon  les  opinions  et  traditions  des  Arabes.  Be  la  traduction  de 
M.  Pierre  Vattier,  Dooteur  en  Midicine,  Leotenir  et  professeur  du  Roy  en, 
Langue  Arabique.  Svr  un  manusorit  Arabe  tir6  de  la  Biblioth^que  de 
feu  Monseigneur  le  Cardinal  Mazariu.  A  Paris,  chez  LovYS  Billaine, 
au  second  pillier  de  la  grande  Salle  du  Palais,  ^  la  Palme  et  an  grand 
Cesar,  M.D.C.  Ixvi.     Avec  Privilege  du  Hoy,  12mo,  pp.  65  et  seq. 

'  Cf.  Virey,  La  Religion  de  VAncienne  Egypte,  1910,  p.  60. 


268  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

a  changeable  colour :  was  it  rose-coloured,  like  that  of  Nitocris, 
whom  tradition  of  the  Greek  period  located  in  the  Pyramid  of 
Mykerinus  ?  Another  legend,  that  I  find  in  the  Arab  historians 
of  Egypt,  also  presents  some  analogy  with  the  episode  recorded 
in  this  fragment.^  The  Arabs  frequently  attribute  the  founda- 
tion of  Alexandria  to  a  king,  Gebire,  and  a  queen,  Charobe, 
of  whom  Western  historians  have  never  heard.  While  Gebire 
was  endeavouring  to  build  the  city,  his  shepherd  drove  the  herds 
that  provided  milk  for  the  royal  kitchen  to  pasture  by  the  sea- 
shore. "  One  evening,  as  he  was  giving  his  beasts  into  the 
charge  of  the  shepherds  who  were  his  subordinates,  he,  who 
was  handsome,  of  good  bearing  and  fine  figure,  beheld  a  beautiful 
young  woman  come  out  of  the  sea,  who  came  to  him,  and 
having  approached  him  very  closely,  saluted  him.  He  returned 
her  salute,  and  she  began  to  speak  to  him  with  all  possible 
courtesy  and  civility,  and  said  to  him,  "  Oh,  young  man,  will 
you  wrestle  with  me  for  a  certain  matter  that  I  will  stake  on 
it  ?  "  "  What  do  you  wish  to  stake  ?  "  replied  the  shepherd. 
"  If  you  overthrow  me,"  said  the  young  lady,  "  I  will  be  yours, 
and  you  shall  do  what  you  please  with  me,  but  if  I  overthrow 
you,  I  will  have  an  animal  from  your  flock."  The  struggle 
ended  in  the  defeat  of  the  shepherd.  The  young  lady  returned 
the  next  day  and  the  days  following.  How  she  again  over- 
came the  shepherd,  how  the  king  'Gebire,  seeing  his  sheep 
disappear,  undertook  to  wrestle  with  her,  and  overcame  her  in 
his  turn,  is  not  all  this  written  in  the  Egypt  of  Murtadi,  son  of 
Gaphiphe,  in  the  translation  of  M.  Pierre  Vattier,  Doctor  of 
Medicine,  Lecturer  and  King's  Professor  of  the  Arabic  language  ? 
I  think  that  this  beautiful  woman  of  the  Egyptian  author  made 
some  proposition  to  our  shepherd  of  the  same  kind  as  that  which 
the  young  lady  of  the  Arab  author  made  to  his.  The  storj'  of 
the  Shipwrecked  Sailor  has  already  introduced,  us  to  a  serpent 
endowed  with  speech,  and  lord  of  an  enchanted  isle  ^ ;  the  frag- 
ment of  Berlin  presents  us  with  a  nymph,  the  Lady  of  a  pool. 
If  chance  favours  our  researches,  we  may  hope  to  find  in 
Egyptian  literature  all  the  fantastic  beings  of  the  Arab  literature 
of  the  Middle  Ages. 

'  L'Egypte  de  Murtadi,  fils  du  Gaphiphe,  pp.  143  et  seq. 
''  Cf.  above,  pp.  101  et  seq. 


THE  QUARREL  OF  APOPI  AND  SAQNUNRIYA   . 

(XIXth   DYNASTY) 

This  narrative  covers  all  that  remains  of  the  first  pages  of  the 
Sallier  Papyrus  No.  1.  For  a  long  time  it  was  regarded  as  an 
historical  document ;  the  style,  the  expressions  employed,  and  the 
actual  groundwork  of  the  subject  all  indicate  a  romance  in  which 
the  principal  parts  are  played  by  personages  borrowed  from 
history,  but  of  which  the  ideas  are  almost  entirely  those  of 
popular  imagination. 

Champollion  twice  saw  the  papyrus  at  the  house  of  its  first 
proprietor,  M.  Sallier,  of  Aix  in  Provence — a  few  days  before  his 
departure  for  Egypt  in  1828,  and  again  on  his  return  in  1830. 
The  notes  published  by  Salvolini  show  that  he  recognised,  if  not 
the  actual  nature  of  the  narrative,  at  any  rate  the  historical  sig- 
nificance of  the  royal  names  in  it.  The  manuscript,  bought  in 
1839  by  the  British  Museum,  was  published  in  facsimile  as  early 
as  1841  in  Select  Papyri}  Hawkins'  notice,  evidently  drawn  up  on 
indications  given  him  by  Birch,  read  the  name  of  the  antagonist 
of  Apophis  that  Champollion  had  not  read,  but  attributes  the 
cartouche  of  Ap6phis  to  king  Phi6ps  of  the  Vth  dynasty.  E. 
de  Rouge  was  the  first  who  actually  discerned  what  was  con- 
tained in  those  pages  of  the  papjrus.  In  1847  he  accorded 
Saqnunriya  his  proper  place  in  the  list  of  the  Pharaohs ;  in 
1854  he  pointed  out  the  name  Hduaru  in  the  fragment,  and 
contributed  to  the  Athenceum  Francois  ^  a  somewhat  detailed 
analysis  of  the  document.  The  discovery  was  popularised  in 
Germany  by  Brugsch,  who  attempted  to  establish  a  word-for- 
word  translation  of  the  first  lines,'  then  in  England  by  Groodwin, 

'  Select  Papyri,  vol.  i,  pi.  i  et  seq. 

2  AtlUnceum  Fram^aii,  1854,  p.  532 ;  cf.  (Euvres  diverse!,  vol.  ii,  pp. 
412-413. 

'  Brugsch,  JEgyptische  Stvdien,  ii,  Mn  ^gyptisehes  Datvm  iiber  die 
Syksoszeit,  pp.  8-21,  8vo,  Leipzig,  1864,  Extract  from  ZeitseTvrift  der 
Deutschen  Morganldndischen  Qetellechaft,  vol.  ix. 

269 


270  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

who  thought  it  possible  to  risk  a  complete  translation.^  Since 
then  the  text  has  been  frequently  studied :  by  Ohabas,^ 
Lushington,^  Brugsch,*  and  Ebers.^  Goodwin,  after  mature 
examination,  cautiously  expressed  his  opinion  that  it  might  well 
prove  to  be  not  an  accurate  narrative,  but  a  romantic  version  of 
historic  facts.^  It  is  an  opinion  with  which  I  am  in  agreement, 
and  which  appears  to  prevail  among  scholars.  The  transcription, 
translation,  and  commentary  on  the  text  are  given  at  full  length 
in  my  Etudes  egyptiennesj 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  extant  remains  enable  us  to  recon- 
stitute the  two  first  pages  almost  completely.  Perhaps  the 
attempt  at  restitution  that  I  propose  may  seem  bold,  even  to 
Egyptologists.  It  will  at  least  be  seen  that  I  have  not  under- 
taken it  lightly.  A  minute  analysis  of  the  text  has  led  me  to 
the  results  I  submit  to  criticism. 

It  happened  that  the  land  of  Egypt  belonged  to  the 
Impure,'  and,  as  they  had  no  lord,  I.  h.  s.,  king  at  that 
time,  it  happened  that  the  king  Saqnunriya,"  1.  h.  s.,  was 
sovereign,  1.  h.  s.,  of  the  land  of  the  South,  and  that  the 
scourge  of  the  towns,  Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  was  chief  of  the 
North  in  Hauaru ; '"  the  Entire  Land  paid  him  tribute  of 

'  Goodwin,  Hieratic  Papyri,  in  Cambridge  Essays,  1858,  pp.  24.8-245. 

^  Chabas,  Les  Pasteurs  en  Egypte,  Amsterdam,  1868,  4to,  pp.  16-18. 

'  iMshirx^on,  Fragment  of  the  first  Sallier  Papyrus,  in  Transactions  of 
the  Society  of  Biblical  Arehaology,  vol.  iv,  pp.  263-266,  reproduced  in 
Records  of  the  Past.  1st  series,  vol.  viii.  pp.  1-4. 

*  Brugsch,  Histoire  d'Egypte,  4to,  1859,  pp.  78  et  seq. ;  and  Geschichte 
.^gyptens,  8vo,  1878,  pp.  222-226 ;  cf.  Tanis  und  Avaris  in  Zeitschrift  fiir 
allgemeinen  Erdhunde,  new  series,  vol.  xiv,  pp.  81  et  seq. 

^  Ebers,  ^gypten  wtid  die  Bilcher  Moses,  1868,  pp.  204  et  seq. 

'  Bunsen,  Egypt's  Place,  vol.  iv,  p.  671. 

'  Maspero,  Etudes  egyptiennes,  vol.  i,  pp.  195-216. 

'  This  is  one  of  the  insulting  epithets  that  the  resentment  of  the  scribes 
expended  on  the  Shepherds  and  other  foreign  nations  who  had  occupied 
Egypt ;  see  p.  153,  note  2. 

»  This  is  the  most  probable  pronunciation  of  the  prenomen  usually  trans- 
cribed RaskeTien.  Three  kings  of  Egypt  bore  this  prenomen,  two  of  the 
name  of  Tiuau,  one  of  the  name  of  Tiua,qen,  who  reigned  several  years 
before  Ahmosis. 

"■  H3,uSru,  the  Avaris  of  Manetho,  was  the  fortress  of  the  shepherd  kings 
in  Egypt.  E.  de  Eoug#  has  proved  that  Hiuaru  was  one  of  the  names  of 
Tanis,  that  most  commonly  in  use  in  ancient  times. 


THE   QUARREL   OF   APOPI  AND   SAQNUNRIYA    271 

manufactured  products,  and  supplied  him  also  with  all 
the  good  things  of  Tomuri.^  Lo,  the  king  Ea-Apopi,  1.  h.  s., 
took  Sutekhu  for  his  lord,  and  he  served  no  other  god  in 
the  Entire  land  but  Sutekhu,  and  constructed  a  temple  of 
excellent  and  eternal  work  at  the  gate  of  the  king,  Ka- 
Apopi,  1.  h.  s.,  and  he  arose  each  day  to  sacrifice  the  daily 
victims  to  Sutekhu,  and  the  chiefs,  vassals  of  the  sovereign, 
1.  h.  s.,  were  there  with  garlands  of  flowers,  exactly  as 
was  done  for  the  temple  of  Phra  Harmakhis.  And  the 
king  Ra-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  intended  to  send  a  message  to 
the  king,  to  announce  it  to  the  king  Saqnunriya,  1.  h.  s., 
prince  of  the  city  of  the  South.  ^  And  many  days  after 
that,  the  king  Ra-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  caused  his  great  chieftains 
to  be  called  .  .  . 

The  text  breaks  oflE'  here,  and  does  not  commence  again  till  the 
beginning  of  page  2 ;  where  it  recommences,  after  a  lacuna, 
which  is  almost  complete,  of  five  and  a  half  lines,  we  find  phrases 
that  evidently  belong  to  the  message  of  king  Apopi.  Now,  many 
examples  taken  from  romantic  as  well  as  historic  texts,  show  us 
that  a  message,  confided  to  some  person,  is  invariably  repeated  by 
him  almost  word  for  word  ;  we  may  therefore  rest  assured  that 
the  two  lines  in  page  2,  placed  in  the  mouth  of  the  envoy, 
must  have  occurred  in  the  missing  lines  of  page  1,  and,  in  fact, 
the  small  isolated  fragment  that  appears  at  the  foot  of  the 
facsimile  shows  remains  of  signs  which  correspond  exactly  with 
one  of  the  passages  in  the  message.  This  first  version  was  then 
spoken  by  the  king's  counsellors  ;  but  who  were  those  counsellors  1 
Were  they  the  great  princes  that  he  caused  to  he  called  at  the  point 
where  the  text  breaks  ofi'?  No,  for  in  the  fragments  that  remain 
of  line  7,  one  finds  the  term  learned  scribes,  and  at  line  2  of 
page  2  it  is  expressly  asserted  that  Apopi  sent  to  Saqnunriya  the 
message  that  had  been  spoken  to  him  by  his  learned  scribes.  We 
must  therefore  admit  that  Apopi,  having  consulted  his  civil  and 
military  chiefs,  they  advised  him  to  apply  to  his  scribes ;  their 
remarks  begin  at  the  end  of  line  7  with  the  obligatory  expression, 

'  Lower  Egypt,  the  Land  of  Canals,  the  country  of  the  North ;  of.  p.  4, 
note  1. 

^  The  C^ty  of  the  South  is  Thebes. 


272  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

Oh  suzerain,  our  lord.  In  fact,  for  the  whole  of  the  first  part  of 
this  lacuna  we  have  a  consultation  very  similar  to  that  which 
we  meet  with  later  on  at  the  court  of  Saqnunrfya,  and  in  the 
Story  of  the  Two  Brothers,  when  Pharaoh  wished  to  know  to 
whom  the  lock  of  hair  belonged  that  perfumed  his  linen.  ^ 
Therefore  resume  thus : 

And  many  days  after  that,  the  king  Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s., 
caused  his  great  chiefs  to  be  called,  as  well  as  his  captains 
and  his  general  advisers,  but  they  did  not  know  how  to 
give  him  a  good  speech  to  send  to  the  king  Saqniinrlya, 
1.  h.  s.,  chief  of  the  country  of  the  South.  The  king 
Apopi,  1.  h.  s.,  therefore  caused  his  magician-scribes  to 
be  called.  They  said  to  him,  "  Suzerain,  1.  h.  s.,  our 
master,  .  .  ."  ^  and  they  gave  to  the  king  Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s., 
the  speech  he  desired.  "  Let  a  messenger  go  to  the  city 
of  the  South,  to  say  to  him,  the  king  Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s., 
sends  to  thee,  saying,  '  Let  the  hippopotami  which  are  in 
the  canals  of  the  country  be  hunted  on  the  pool,  in  order 
that  they  may  let  sleep  come  to  me  by  night  and  by 
day '" 

Here  we  have  a  portion  of  the  gap  filled  up  with  certainty,  at 
least  as  regards  the  sense ;  but  at  the  bottom  of  the  page  there 
remains  a  good  line  and  a  half,  perhaps  even  two  lines  or  more, 
to  be  filled  up.  Here,  also,  the  remainder  of  the  narrative 
enables  us  to  re-establish  the  exact  meaning,  if  not  the  letter,  of 
what  is  missing  from  the  text.  It  is  seen,  in  fact,  that  having 
received  the  message  given  above,  King  Saqnunriya  assembles  his 
counsellors,  who  are  perplexed,  and  can  discover  no  reply ;  upon 
which  King  Apopi  sends  a  second  ambassador.  It  is  obvious  that 
the  embarrassment  of  the  Thebans,  and  their  silence,  was  foreseen 
by  the  scribes  of  Apopi,  and  that  that  part  of  their  discourse 
which  is  preserved  at  the  top  of  page  2  contained  the  end  of  the 
second  message  that  Ap6pi  intended  to  send,  if  the  first  received 
no  reply.  In  analogous  stories,  which  turn  on  some  extraordinary 
deed  to  be  accomplished  by  one  of  two  kings,  the  penalty  he  will 
have  to  submit  to,  in  case  he  is  unsuccessful,  is  always  set  forth. 

'  See  above,  p  13. 

^  This  line  must  have  contained  a  compliment  paid  to  the  king. 


THE   QUARREL   OF   APOPI   AND   SAQNUNRIYA    273 

It  must  certainly  have   been  the  same  with  this  story,  and  I 
propose  to  restore  it  as  follows  : 

He  will  not  know  what  to  reply,  neither  well  nor  ill. 
Then  thou  wilt  send  him  another  message,  "  The  king 
Ra-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  sends  to  thee,  saying,  '  If  the  chief  of  the 
South  is  not  able  to  reply  to  my  message,  let  him  serve  no 
other  god  than  Sutekhu.'  But  if  he  replies,  and  if  he  does 
that  which  I  tell  him  to  do,^  then  I  will  take  nothing  from 
him,  and  also  I  will  bow  myself  before  no  other  god  of  the 
country  of  Egypt  than  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods." 

And  many   days  after  that,  the  king  Ea-Ap6pi,   1.  h.  s., 
sent  to  the  prince  of  the  country  of  the  South  the  message 
that  his  magician-scribes  had  given  him  ;  and  the  messenger 
of  the  King  Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  arrived  before  the  prince  of 
the  country  of  the  South.     He  said  to  the  messenger  of  the 
King  Ka-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  "  What  message  dost  thou  bring  to 
the  country  of  the  South?  wherefore  hast  thou  taken  this 
journey  ? "     The  messenger  said  to   him,    "  The   King  Ka- 
Apopi,  1.  h.  s.,  sends  to  thee,  saying,  "  Let  them  hunt  on  the 
pool  the  hippopotami  that  are  in  the  canals  of  the  country, 
that  sleep  may  come  to  me  by  day  as  by  night  .  .  ."     The 
chief  of  the  country  of  the  South  was  seized  with  stupor, 
and  he  knew  not  what  to  reply  to  the  messenger  of  the  king 
Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.     The  chief  of  the  country  of  the  South 
said  therefore  to  the  messenger,   "  Behold,  that  which  thy 
master,  1.  h.  s.,  sends  for  .  .  .  the  chief  of  the  country  of  the 
South  .  .  .  the  words  that  he  has  sent  to  me  .  .  .  his  pos- 
sessions. .  .  ."    The  chief  of  the  country  of  the  South  caused 
all  sorts  of  good  things,  of  meat,  of  cake,  of  .  .  .,  of  wine, 
to  be  given  to  the  messenger,  then  he  said  to  him,  "  Return, 
and  say  to  thy  lord,  .  .  .  '  All  that  thou  hast  said,  I  approve 
....'"     The  messenger  of  the  king  Ea-Ap6pi,  1.  h.  s.,  set 
out  for  the  place  where  his  lord,  1.  h.  s.,  was.     Behold,  the 
chief  of  the  country  of  the  South  caused  his  great  chiefs 
'  The  part  of  the  text  still  extant  begins  here. 


274  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

to  be  called,  as  well  as  his  wise  captains  and  generals,  and 
he  repeated  to  them  all  the  message  that  the  king  Ea-Ap6pi, 
1.  h.  s.,  had  sent  him.  Behold,  they  were  silent  with  one 
mouth  for  a  long  time,  and  they  knew  not  what  to  reply 
either  of  good  or  of  bad. 

The  king  Ea-Apopi,  1.  h.  s.,  sent  to  the  chief  of  the 
country  of  the  South  the  other  message  that  the  magician- 
scribes  had  given  him.  .  .  . 

It  is  disappointing  that  the  text  breaks  oflF  just  at  this  point. 
The  three  Pharaohs  who  bore  the  name  of  Saqnunriya  reigned 
at  a  troublous  time,  and  must  have  left  vivid  memories  among 
the  Theban  population.  They  were  restless  and  warlike  princes, 
the  last  of  whom  perished  by  a  violent  death — perhaps  while 
fighting  against  the  Hyks6s,  perhaps  by  the  hand  of  an  assassin. 
His  beard  had  been  shaved  the  same  morning,  "  adorning  himself 
for  battle  like  the  god  Montu,''  as  the  Egyptian  scribes  say.  A 
blow  with  an  axe  carried  off  part  of  his  left  cheek,  laying  his 
teeth  bare,  splitting  the  jawbone,  and  laying  him  senseless  on  the 
ground  ;  a  second  blow  penetrated  deep  into  the  skull ;  a  dagger 
or  short  lance  cut  into  the  forehead  on  the  right,  slightly  above 
the  eye.  The  body  was  hastily  embalmed,  in  the  position  into 
which  it  had  stiffened  at  death.  The  features  still  express  the 
rage  and  fury  of  the  fight ;  a  great  whitish  patch  of  exuded  brain 
covers  the  forehead,  the  lips  are  drawn  back  showing  the  jaw- 
bone, and  the  tongue  bitten  between  his  teeth.'  Did  the  author 
of  our  story  bring  up  the  narrative  to  the  tragic  death  of  his 
hero  ?  The  scribe  to  whom  we  owe  the  Sallier  Papyrus  No.  1 
certainly  intended  to  finish  his  story  ;  he  had  copied  the  last  lines 
on  the  verso  of  one  of  the  pages,  and  was  preparing  to  go  on 
with  it  when  he  was  interrupted  by  some  accident  unknown  to 
us.  Perhaps  the  professor  from  whose  dictation  he  appears  to 
have  been  writing  was  not  acquainted  with  the  final  events.  In 
the  Introduction,  p.  xxix,  I  have  already  indicated  the  probable 
ending :  King  Saqnfinriya,  after  long  hesitation,  succeeded  in 
extricating  himself  from  the  embarrassing  dilemma  in  which  his 
powerful  rival  had  attempted  to  involve  him.  It  may  be  sup- 
posed that  his  reply  would  be  no  less  strange  than  Apopi's 
message,  but  we  have  no  means  of  conjecturing  what  it  was. 

'  Maspero,  Les  Momies  royales  d'Egypte  recemment  mises  aujour,  pp.  14, 
15. 


FKAGMENTS   OF  A  GHOST  STOEY 

(XXth  DYNASTY) 

These  fragments  have  come  down  to  us  on  four  potsherds,  one  of 
which  is  now  at  the  Louvre,  and  another  at  the  Vienna  Museum ; 
the  two  others  are  in  the  Egyptian  Museum  in  Florence. 

The  Paris  ostracon  is  formed  of  two  pieces  joined  together, 
which  bear  the  remains  of  eleven  lines.  It  has  been  translated, 
but  not  published,  by  Dev^ria,  Catalogue  des  manuscrits  egyptiens 
du  Mwsee  du  Louvre,  Paris,  1872,  p.  208,  and  the  cartouche  it 
contains  has  been  studied  by  Lincke,  Vber  einem  noch  nicht 
erklarten  Konigsnamen  auf  einem  Ostraoon  des  Louvre  in  Rectieil 
de  Travaux  relatifs  d,  la  pMlologie  et  &  I'arckeologie  Egyptienne  et 
Assyrienne,  1880,  vol.  ii.  pp.  85-89.  Five  lines  of  the  text  have 
been  published  in  cursive  facsimile  by  Lauth,  who  read  the  royal 
name  E.i-Hap-Amh,  and  places  it  in  the  IVth  dynasty  {Manetho 
und  der  Turiner  Konigspapyrus,  p.  187).  Finally  the  whole  has 
been  given  by  Spiegelberg,  Varia,  in  Recueil  de  Travaux,  vol.  xvi, 
pp.  31,  32.  The  two  fragments  at  Florence  in  Migliarini's 
Catalogue  are  numbered  2616  and  2617.  They  were  photo- 
gi-aphed  in  1876  by  Golenischeff,  then  incompletely  transcribed 
by  Erman  in  Zeitschrift  (1880,  3rd  fasc),  finally  published  in 
facsimile,  transcribed,  and  translated,  by  Golenischeff,  Notice  sur 
Un  Ostracon  hieratique  du  Muste  die  Florence  {avec  deux  planches), 
in  Recueil,  1881,  vol.  iii.  pp.  3-7.  I  added  a  note  to  Golenischeff 's 
memoir  (^Recueil,  vol.  iii,  p.  7)  which  contains  some  corrections  of 
no  great  importance.  The  two  fragments  at  Florence  in  reality 
only  contribute  one  text,  for  ostracon  2617  appears  to  be  only 
a  copy  of  ostracon  2616.  The  Vienna  ostracon  was  discovered, 
published,  and  translated  by  E.  de  Bergmann,  in  his  Hieratische 
und  Hieratisch-Demotische  Texte  der  Sammhing  jEgyptischer 
Alterthiimer  des  Allerhochsten  Kaiserhauses,  Vienna,  1886,  pi.  iv, 

275 


276  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

p.  vi.     It  is  broken  across  the  middle,  and  half  of  each  line  has 
disappeared. 

It  is  impossible  to  discover  what  the  leading  idea  of  the  story 
may  have  been.  Several  personages  appear  in  it :  a  Theban 
high-priest  of  Amon,  Khonsumhabi,  three  unnamed  men,  and  a 
ghost  who  employs  very  good  language  to  tell  the  story  of  his 
former  life.  The  Paris  ostracon  seems  to  have  preserved  a 
fragment  of  the  commencement.  The  high-priest,  Khonsumhabi, 
appears  to  be  entirely  occupied  with  finding  a  suitable  site  for 
his  tomb. 

He  sent  one  of  his  subordinates  to  the  place  of  the  tomb 
of  the  king  of  Upper  and  Lower  Egypt  Eahotpu,  I.  h.  s.,'  and 
with  him  the  men  under  the  orders  of  the  high-priest  of 
Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  three  men,  four  men  in  all ;  he 
embarked  with  them,  he  steered,  he  led  them  to  the  place 
indicated,  near  the  tomb  of  the  king  Eahotpu,  1.  h.  s.  They 
went  to  it  with  her,  and  they  went  inside ;  she  adored  twenty- 
five  ...  in  the  royal  .  .  .  country,  then  they  came  to  the 
river-bank,  and  they  sailed  to  Khonsumhabi,  the  high-priest 
of  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  and  they  found  him  who  sang 
the  praises  of  the  god  in  the  temple  of  the  city  of  Amon. 

He  said  to  them,  "  Let  us  rejoice,  for  I  have  come,  and 
I  have  found  the  place  favourable  for  establishing  my 
dwelling  to  perpetuity."  The  three  men  said  to  him  with 
one  mouth,  "  It  is  found,  the  place  favourable  for  establish- 
ing thy  dwelling  to  perpetuity,"  and  they  seated  themselves 
before  her,  and  she  passed  a  happy  day,  and  her  heart  was 
given  to  joy.  Then  he  said  to  them,  "  Be  ready  to-morrow 
morning  when  the  solar  disc  issues  from  the  two  horizons." 
He  commanded  the  lieutenant  of  the  temple  of  Amon  to 
find  lodgment  for  those  people,  he  told  each  of  them  what 

'  The  name  of  Etootpu  was  borne  by  an  obscure  king  of  the  XVIth  or 
XVIIth  dynasty,  whose  tomb  was  apparently  situated  at  Thebes,  in  the 
same  quarter  of  the  necropolis  as  the  pyramids  of  the  sovereigns  of 
the  Xlth,  Xlllth  and  XlVth  and  following  dynasties,  towards  Drah- 
Abu'l-Neggah.  He  is  probably  the  Eahotpu  of  this  text  (cf.  H.  Gauthier, 
Le  Livre  des  Rois  d'Egypte,  vol.  ii,  pp.  88,  89). 


FRAGMENTS   OF  A  GHOST  STORY  277 

he  had  to  do,  and  he  caused  them  to  return  to  sleep  in  the 
city  in  the  evening.     He  established  .  .  . 

In  the  fragments  at  Florence,  the  high-priest  found  himself 
face  to  face  chatting  with  the  ghost,  and  perhaps  this  was  while 
digging  out  the  more  ancient  tomb,  the  owners  of  which  entered 
into  conversation  with  him,  as  the  mummies  of  Nenoferkephtah 
talked  with  Prince  Satni-Khamois.'  At  the  point  where  we  take 
up  the  text  again,  one  of  the  mummies  seems  to  be  relating  the 
story  of  his  earthly  life  to  the  first  prophet  of  Amon. 

I  grew,  and  I  did  not  see  the  rays  of  the  sun,  I  did  not 
breathe  the  air,  but  darkness  was  before  me  every  day,  and 
no  one  came  to  find  me."  The  spirit  said  to  him,  "  For  me, 
when  I  was  still  living  on  earth,  I  was  the  treasurer  of  king 
Eahotpu,  1.  h.  s.,  I  was  also  his  infantry  lieutenant.  Then  I 
passed  before  men  and  behind  the  gods,^  and  I  died  in  the 
year  xrv,  during  the  months  of  Shomu,'  of  the  king  Manha- 
puriya,*  1.  h.  s.  He  gave  me  my  four  casings,  and  my 
sarcophagus  of  alabaster ;  he  caused  to  be  done  for  me  ail 
that  is  done  for  a  man  of  quality,  he  gave  me  ofiferings  .  .  ." 

All  that  follows  is  very  obscure.  The  ghost  seems  to  complain 
of  some  accident  that  has  happened  to  himself  or  to  his  tomb, 
but  I  cannot  clearly  make  out  what  is  the  subject  of  his 
dissatisfaction.  Perhaps,  like  Nenoferkephtah  in  the  story  of 
Satni-Khamois,  he  simply  wished  to  have  his  wife,  his  children, 
or  some  one  whom  he  had  loved,  to  dwell  with  him.  When  he 
has  finished  his  speech,  his  visitor  speaks  in  his  turn. 

The  first  prophet  of  Amonra,  king  of  the  gods,  Khonsum- 
habi  said  to  him,  "  Oh,  give  me  excellent  counsel  as  to  what 

'  See  above,  pp.  119  et  seq. 

"  To  pass  in  front  of  men  and  heldnd  the  gods  is  to  die.  The  dead  man 
preceded  to  the  other  world  those  who  reoiained  on  earth  and  went  to  join 
those  who  followed  Ei,  Osiris,  Sokaris  or  some  other  of  the  funerary  gods. 

^  The  Egyptian  year  was  divided  into  three  seasons  of  four  months 
each ;   Sliomu  was  the  season  of  harvest. 

'  For  this  king,  who  was  yet  more  obscure  than  Bahotpu,  see  H.  Gauthier, 
Le  Lime  des  JRois  <VBgypte,  vol.  ii,  p.  95. 
23 


278  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

I  should  do,  and  I  will  have  it  done  for  thee,  or  at  least  grant 
that  five  men  and  five  slaves  may  be  given  me,  in  all  ten 
persons,  to  bring  me  water,  and  then  I  will  give  corn  every 
day,  and  that  will  enrich  me,  and  a  libation  of  water  shall  be 
brought  me  every  day."  The  spirit,  Nuitbusokhnu,^  said  to 
him,  "  What  hast  thou  done  ?  If  the  wood  is  not  left  in  the 
sun,  it  will  not  remain  dried,  it  is  not  a  stone  worn  with  age 
that  is  brought  .  .  ." 

The  prophet  of  Amon  appears  to  ask  some  favour  from  the 
ghost ;  which,  on  his  part,  the  ghost  does  not  appear  disposed  to 
grant  him,  notwithstanding  the  promises  made  by  his  visitor.  The 
conversation  on  this  theme  lasted  a  considerable  time,  and  I 
think  we  find  it  continued  on  the  Vienna  ostracon.  Khonsum- 
habi  enquires  to  which  family  one  of  his  interlocutors  belonged, 
and  his  very  natural  curiosity  was  amply  satisfied. 

The  spirit  said  to  him,  "  X  .  .  .  is  the  name  of  my  father, 
X  .  .  .  the  name  of  the  father  of  my  father,  and  X  .  .  .  the 
name  of  my  mother."  The  high-priest  Khonsumhabi  said  to 
him,  "  But  then  I  know  thee  well.  This  eternal  house  in 
which  thou  art,  it  is  I  who  had  it  made  for  thee ;  it  is  I  who 
caused  thee  to  be  buried,  in  the  day  when  thou  didst  return 
to  earth  ;  it  is  I  who  had  done  for  thee  that  which  should  be 
done  for  him  who  is  of  high  rank.  But  behold,  I  am  in 
poverty,  an  evil  wind  of  winter  has  breathed  famine  over  the 
country,  and  I  am  no  longer  happy.  My  heart  does  not 
touch  (joy),  because  the  Nile.  .  .  ."  Thus  said  Khonsum- 
habi, and  after  that  Khonsumhabi  remained  there,  weeping, 
for  a  long  time,  not  eating,  not  drinking,  not  .  .  . 

The  text  is  so  interrupted  by  lacunae  that  I  cannot  hope  to 
have  interpreted  it  correctly  throughout.  Even  had  it  been 
complete,  the  difficulty  would  have  been  scarcely  less  great.  I 
do  not  know  whether  the  fashion  among  Egyptian  ghosts  was  to 

'  This  name  signifies  tlie  dwelling  does  not  contain  it.  Perhaps,  instead 
of  being  the  name  of  the  dead  man,  it  is  a  generic  name  used  to  denote 
ghosts. 


FRAGMENTS   OF   A  GHOST   STORY  279 

render  their  language  obscure  at  pleasure ;  this  one  does  not 
seem  to  have  attempted  to  make  himself  clear.  His  remarks 
are  brusquely  broken  off  in  the  middle  of  a  phrase,  and  unless 
Golenischeff  discovers  some  other  fragments  on  a  potsherd  in  a 
museum,  I  see  scarcely  any  chance  that  we  shall  ever  know  the 
remainder  of  the  story. 


STOEY   OF  A  MARINER 

(PTOLEMAIC   PERIOD) 

This  fragment  is  taken  from  tlie  great  Demotic  Papyrus  of  the 
Bibliothfeque  Nationals  of  Paris.  The  document,  brought  to  France 
at  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  century  by  one  of  the  members 
of  the  expedition  to  Egypt,  until  1873  remained  forgotten  among 
a  mass  of  family  papers.  Offered  by  the  ilaisonneuve  library  to 
the  Bibliothfeque  Nationale,  it  was  purchased  by  it,  on  my  repre- 
sentations, for  the  moderate  sum  of  a  thousand  francs. 

It  is  written  on  both  sides,  and  contains  several  compositions  of 
a  special  character — Messianic  prophecies,  semi-religious  dialogues, 
and  apologues.  The  only  fragment  that  is  clearly  marked  out 
for  insertion  in  this  collection  is  this  one  of  which  I  give  a  trans- 
lation in  the  following  pages.  The  credit  for  having  discovered  and 
published  the  text  belongs  to  Eugfene  R^villout,  who  was  then 
co-conservator  of  the  Egyptian  Museum  at  the  Louvre  : 

Premier  Extrait  de  la  Chronique  Demotique  de  Paris :  le  red 
Amasis  et  les  Mercenaires,  selon  les  donnees^  d' Hdrodote  et  les 
renseignements  de  la  Chronique  in  the  Revue  Egyptologique,  vol.  i, 
pp.  49-82,  and  pi.  II,  4to,  Paris,  1880.     E.  Leroux. 

Since  then  R6villout  has  given  a  more  complete  translation  of 
it  in  French  :  E.  R6villout,  Herodote  et  les  oracles  Egyptiens,  in 
the  Revux  Egyptologique,  voL  ix,  1900,  pp.  2,  3  :  then  a  hiero- 
glyphic transcription  with  a  new  French  translation  :  E.  E6villout, 
Amasis  sur  le  lac  et  le  Conte  du  Nautonnier,  in  Revue  Egypto- 
logique,  1908,  vol.  xii,  pp.  113-116. 

It  seems  as  though  King  Amasis  was  privileged  to  act  as  an 
inspiration  to  Egyptian  story-tellers.  His  humble  origin,  the  caustic 
quality  of  his  wit,  and  the  boldness  of  his  policy  with  regard  to 
the  Greeks,  raised  enduring  hatred  against  him  from  some,  while 
they  were  the  passionate  admiration  of  others.  Herodotus  collected 
very  contradictory  statements  about  him,  and  The  Story  of  the 
Mariner  gives  us  in  its  original  form  one  of  the  anecdotes  related 
about  him.  The  author  supposes  that  King  Amasis,  having  become 
intoxicated  one  evening,  awoke  next  morning  with  a  very  muddled 

280 


STORY   OF   A  MARINER  281 

head  ;  and  not  feeling  inclined  to  deal  with  serious  matters,  he 
enquired  of  his  courtiers  whether  one  of  them  did  not  know  some 
amusing  story.  One  of  those  standing  by  seized  the  moment  to 
tell  him  the  story  of  a  mariner.  The  narrative  is  interrupted  too 
soon  to  enable  us  to  judge  of  the  form  it  took.  There  is  nothing 
to  prevent  our  supposing  that  the  narrator  drew  a  moral  from  it 
apphcable  to  the  king.  At  any  rate,  it  seems  to  me  most  probable 
that  the  episode  at  the  beginning  is  only  a  pretended  piece  of 
history.  Not  to  speak  of  the  passage  in  the  book  of  Esther  where 
^Ahasuerus,  suffering  from  insomnia,  had  the  annals  of  his  reign  read 
to  him,  the  first  Egyptian  romance  of  St.  Petersburg  begins  in 
very  much  the  same  manner  ;  King  Sanaf  rut  assembles  his  counsellors 
and  demands  a  story  from  them.'  I  may  therefore  be  forgiven  if  I 
attach  no  more  historical  importance  to  this  tale  than  I  accorded  to 
the  stories  of  Sinuhtt  or  ThutJyi. 

It  happened  one  day,  in  the  time  of  the  king  Ahmasi, 
that  the  king  said  to  his  grandees,  "  It  pleases  me  to  drink 
the  brandy  of  Egypt."  They  said,  "  Our  great  lord,  it  is 
hard  to  drink  the  brandy  of  Egypt."  He  said  to  them : 
"  Do  you  intend  to  object  to  what  I  have  said  ?  "  ^  They 
said  :  "  Our  great  master,  that  which  pleases  the  king,  let 
him  do  it."  The  king  said  :  "  Let  them  bring  some  brandy 
of  Egypt  on  to  the  lake."  They  did  according  to  the  order 
of  the  king.  The  king  washed  himself  with  his  sons,  and 
he  had  no  wine  in  the  world  with  them  except  the  brandy 
of  Egypt;  now  the  king  delighted  himself  with  his  sons, 
he  drank  of  the  wine  in  very  great  quantities,  by  reason  of 
the  greediness  shown  by  the  king  for  the  brandy  of  Egypt ; 
then  the  king  went  to  sleep  on  the  lake,  the  evening  of 
that  day,  for  he  had  caused  the  sailors  to  bring  a  bed 
under  a  bower  on  the  border  of  the  lake.  When  the 
morning  arrived,  the  king  could  not  rise,  on  account  of 
the  greatness  of  the  drunkenness  in  which  he  was  sunk. 
When  an  hour  had  passed  and  he  still  could  not  rise,  the 
courtiers  complained,  saying,  "  Is  it  possible  that,  if  it 
happens  to  the  king  to  be  drunk  more  than  any  man  in 

'  See  on  this  subject  p.  22  of  this  volume. 

''  Lit. .  "  Has  that  which  I  say  to  thee  an  tvil  smelll" 


282  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  world,  no  man  in  the  world  can  approach  the  king  for 
business  ?  " '  The  courtiers  therefore  came  into  the  place 
where  the  king  was,  and  said  to  him,  "Our  great  lord, 
what  desire  possesses  the  king  ?  "  The  king  said,  "  It 
pleases  me  to  be  very  drunk.  ...  Is  there  no  one  among 
you  who  can  tell  me  a  story,  so  that  I  may  keep  awake 
with  it  ?  "  Now  there  was  a  Royal  Brother  ^  among  the 
courtiers  whose  name  was  Peun,'  and  he  knew  many  stories  ; 
he  approached  the  king,  he  said,  "  Our  great  lord,  does  the 
king  not  know  the  adventure  that  happened  to  a  young 
pilot  to  whom  was  given  the  name  .  .  ." 

It  chanced  in  the  time  of  the  king  Psamatiku  *  that  there 
was  a  married  pilot ;  another  pilot,  to  whom  was  given  the 
name  .  .  .  fell  in  love  with  the  wife  of  the  first,  to  whom 
was  given  the  name  Taonkh.*  She  loved  him,  and  he 
loved  her.  It  happened  one  day  the  king  caused  him  to 
come  in  the  bark  named  .  .  .  that  day.  After  the  feast 
a  great  desire  seized  him  .  .  .  which  the  king  had  given 
him ;  he  said,  "  .  .  .  . ,"  and  they  caused  him  to  enter 
the  presence  of  the  king.  He  arrived  at  his  house,  he 
washed  himself  with  his  wife,  he  could  not  drink  as 
usual.  When  the  time  arrived  for  the  two  to  go  to  bed, 
he  could  not  know  her,  owing  to  the  excess  of  suffering  in 
which  he  was.  She  said  to  him,  "What  happened  to  thee 
on  the  river?" 

'  Litt. :  "  Is  it  a  thing  that  may  happen  that,  if  the  king  makes  drunken- 
ness of  man  of  all  the  world,  the  man  of  all  the  world  does  not  make 
entrance  for  business  to  the  king  ?  " 

^  The  reading  is  doubtful.  The  title  of  Royal  Brother,  somewhat  un- 
usual in  Egypt,  marks  a  high  degree  of  nobility  iu  the  hierarchy. 

'  The  reading  of  the  name  is  uncertain.  ESvillout  read  it  Pentsate, 
Petes§tis.  I  have  taken  from  the  known  signs  that  one  which  is  most 
similar  in  appearance  to  the  formula  he  gives  in  his  facsimile. 

'  The  name  fills  in  the  end  of  a  line  and  is  much  mutilated.  I  think  I 
recognise  a  P  in  the  first  sign,  as  it  is  in  the  facsimile,  and  this  reading 
suggested  to  me  the  name  Psamatiku.    R6villout  transcribed  it  Oudja-Hor. 

'  Lit. :  "  Took  love  for  herself,  one  calling  her  Ta6nkh  (?)  or  Sonkh, 
her  name,  another  pilot  was  of  liis  name.  .  .  ."  E6villout  simply  read 
Ankh  as  the  name  of  the  wife. 


STORY   OF   A  MARINER  283 

The  publication  of  an  accurate  facsimile  may  perhaps  some 
day  enable  us  to  translate  the  last  lines  completely.  I  will 
attempt  in  the  meantime  to  comment  on  the  little  episode  at 
the  commencement,  that  served  as  a  framework  to  the  history 
of  the  mariner.  King  Ahmasi,  the  Amasis  of  the  Greeks, 
wished  to  drink  some  kind  of  liquor  which  is  always  called 
kolohi  of  Egypt  in  the  text,  no  doubt  in  distinction  to  the 
foreign  liquprs  that  were  imported  in  large  quantities. 
Revillout  conjectured  that  kolohi  of  Egypt  might  be  the 
heavy  wine  of  the  Fayum,  or  of  Marea.^  One  might  imagine 
that  kolobi  was  not  made  with  grapes,  in  which  case  it  might 
be  possible  to  compare  it  with  the  kind  of  beer  that  the  Greeks 
called  hwmi?  I  am  disposed  to  believe  that  this  concoction 
which  was  so  severe  a  drink,  and  rendered  the  king  incapable 
of  work  after  his  drunken  bout,  was  not  a  natural  wine. 
Perhaps  we  may  regard  it  as  the  strange  wine  spoken  of  by 
Pliny,'  with  the  Greek  name  ekholas  which  may  have  some 
distant  assonance  with  the  Egyptian  term  kolobi.  Or,  again,  it 
may  be  one  of  those  wines  so  charged  with  alcohol,  as  to  affect 
the  drinker  in  the  same  way  as  brandy.  On  this  second 
hypothesis  I  elected  to  use  the  inexact  term  brandy  for  kolobi.*' 

The  scene  is  enacted  on  a  lake,  but  I  do  not  think  on  Lake 
Marseotis,'  nor  on  any  of  the  natural  lakes  of  the  Delta.  The 
term  ski,  lake,  is  perpetually  applied  in  Egyptian  writings  to 
the  pieces  of  artificial  water  that  adorned  the  gardens  of  the 
great  and  wealthy.^  A  pious  wish  frequently  expressed  for  the 
dead  was  that,  as  a  supreme  favour,  they  should  wander  in  peace 
on  the  borders  of  the  pool  of  water  excavated  in  their  garden,  and 
there  is  no  need  to  have  lived  long  in  Egypt  to  understand  such  a 
wish.  The  paintings  on  the  Theban  tombs  show  the  deceased 
seated  on  the  edge  of  his  pool,  and  many  paintings  also  prove 
that  the  pools  were  often  placed  close  to  vines  and  fruit  trees. 
One  of  the  tales  of  magic  in   the   Cheops  story  shows  us  that 

'  Bevue  egyptologique,  vol.  i,  p.  65,  note  1  ;  in  his  article  in  vol.  x,  p.  2. 
he  decides  for  the  wine  of  the  Fayftm. 

^  Dioscorides,  Materia  Medica,  vol.  ii,  ch.  109  and  110. 

'  Pliny,  Historia  Naturalis,  xiv.  18. 

*  M.  GrofE  has  expressed  his  opinion  that  the  kolobi  was  a  boiled  wine  of 
superior  quality  (^Note  sur  le  ■mot  JSaloui  du  Papyrus  Egypto- Arameen  du 
Louvre  in  the  Journal  Asiatique,  viii""  series,  vol.  xi,  pp.  305,  306). 

=  E^villout,  Premier  extrait  de  la  Clitoniqiie  in  Revue  egyptologique,  vol.  i, 
p.  65,  note  2. 

e  Cf.  pp.  24-26,  and  p.  96,  note  4,  of  this  volume. 


284  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  royal  palace  had  its  shi,  like  the  houses  of  private  persons. 
They  were  usually  of  very  moderate  dimensions,  although  that 
of  Sanafrui  was  bordered  by  flowery  country,  and  was  of  suffici- 
ently  large  extent  to  admit  of  the  evolutions  of  a  bark  con- 
taining twenty  women  and  a  pilot.^     The  author  of  the  demotic 
narrative  therefore  merely  mentions  a  small  fact  of  daily  life, 
when  he  describes  Ahmasi  as  drinking  wine  on  the  lake  of  his 
villa    palace,    and   passing    the    night    under    a    bower    by   the 
side  of  the  water.^      A  passage  of  Plutarch  which  states  that 
Psammetichus  was  the  first  to  drink  wine  '  appears  to  show  that 
Ahmasi  was  not  the  only  one   who   yielded   to  habits    of    this 
kind.      Perhaps  the  same  stories  of   intoxication   were  told  of 
Psammetichus  that  were  attributed  here  to  one  of  his  successors; 
the  author  from  whom  Plutarch  borrowed  his  information  must 
have  known  the  Story  of  the  Mariner  or  a  story  of  the  same 
kind,  in  which  Psammetichus  played  the  part  of  the  intoxicated 
Pharaoh.      The  tales  told  by  Herodotus  at  least  show  that  at  the 
Persian  period  Amasis  was   that  Saite  king  to  whom  the  most 
ignoble  actions  were  attributed.  I  regard  these  stories  as  the  natural 
consequence  of  the  hatred  felt  for  him  by  the  sacerdotal  class,  and 
the  adherents  of  the  ancient  Saite  family.     Had  these  rumours 
any  foundation  in  fact,  or  were  the  stories  related  by  Herodotus 
merely  the  malicious  exaggeration  of  royal  weaknesses  ?   Egyptian 
scribes  waxed  eloquent  when  they  discoursed  on  drunkenness,  and 
they    would    voluntarily   warn    their    pupils    and   subordinates 
against  the  houses  of  almehs,  and  places  where  beer  was  drunk.^ 
Drunkenness  was  no  rare  vice  among  people  of  rank,  and  even 
among  women  ;  the  painters  who  decorated  the  tombs  of  Upper 
Egypt  did  not  hesitate  to  depict  its  effects  with  closest  fidelity. 
Thus,  while  there  is  nothing  to  prevent  our  accepting  the  possibility 
of  a  Pharaoh  such  as  Ahmasi  having  a  taste  for  wine,  there  is  also 
nothing  known  from  the  monuments  to  show  that  he  was  guilty 
of  drunkenness.    Without  further  information,  I  shall  be  content 
to  regard  the  indications  as  to  his  character  given  in  the  demotic 
story   and   in   the   stories   collected   by   Herodotus    as  no   more 
authentic  than  those  as  to  the  character  of  Khufui  or  Ramses  II 
provided  by  the  stories  of  Sesostris  or  Cheops. 
'  See  above,  pp.  28,  29. 

'  Wilkinson,    A   Popular  Account  of   the  Ancient   Egyptians,    vol.   i 
pp.  25,  38,  42. 
'  Plutarch  de  Iside  et  Osiride,  §  6. 

*  Anastasi  Papyrus,  No.  iv,  pi.  xi,  1.  8  et  seq^.  ;  and  Papyrus  de  Soulaq, 
vol.  i,  pi.  xvii,  11.  6-11 ;  cf.  Chabas,  L'Egyptoloyie,  vol.  i,  p.  101  et  scq. 


THE   ADVENTURE  OF  THE   SCULPTOR  PETESIS 
AND  KING  NECTONABO 

(PTOLEMAIC  PERIOD) 

The  Greek  Papyrus  that  contains  this  story  at  one  time  formed 
part  of  the  Anastasi  collection.  Acquired  by  the  Leyden  Museum 
in  1829,  it  was  unrolled  and  analysed  by  Reuvens,  Lettres  a 
M.  Letronne  sur  les  Papyrus  bilingues  et  grecs  et  sur  quelques  autres 
inonuments  grdco-dgyptiens  du  Musee  d'Antiquites  de  Leyde,  Leyden, 
1830,  4to,  pp.  76-79.' 

It  was  afterwards  completely  published,  translated,  and  commented 
on  by  Leemans,  Papyri  Graeci  Musaei  aniiquari  puhlici  Lugduni 
Batavi,  Lugduni  Batavorum  cioiocccxxxviii,  pp.  122-129.  Since 
then  it  has  been  studied  by  U.  Wilcken,  Der  Trauni  des  Konigs 
Nektonabos  (extract  from  Melanges  Nicole,  pp.  579-596,  8vo),  Geneva, 
1906,  18  pp.,  and  by  St.  Witkowski,  In  Somnium  Neetanebi  {Pap. 
Leid.  U.),  ohservationes  aliqitat  scripsit  (extract  from  Eos,  vol.  xiv, 
pp.  11-18),  8vo,  Leopold,  1908,  8  pp. 

The  form  of  the  characters  and  the  texture  of  the  papyrus  deter- 
mined Leemans  to  assign  the  writing  of  the  fragment  to  the  second 
half  of  the  second  century  B.C.  ;  Wilcken  placed  it  in  the  first  half 
of  the  same  century,  and  attributed  it  to  a  personage  who  formed 
one  of  the  company  of  recluses  of  the  Serapeum.  The  part  that  has 
survived  is  composed  of  five  columns  unequal  in  length.  The  first, 
which  is  very  narrow,  contains  twelve  lines,  of  which  only  a  few 
words  are  legible ;  but  these  enable  us  to  restore  conjecturally  the 
title  of  the  story  "  The  sculptor  Petgsis  and  the  King  Nectonabo." 
The  second  and  fourth  columns  each  contain  twenty-one  lines  ;  the 
third  twenty-four.  The  fifth  only  consists  of  four  lines,  after  which 
the  story  breaks  ofi'  suddenly  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence,  like  the 
Quarrel  of  Apopi  and  Saqnunrvya  in  the  Sallier  Papyrus  No.  1. 
The  scribe  amused  himself  by  drawing  a  comic  figure  of  a  man  below 
the  writing,  and  left  his  story  unfinished. 

The  writer  of  this  fragment  did  not  draw  it  up  himself  from  some 
tale  told  him  by  a  professional  story-teller  ;  the  errors,  of  which  the 
text  is  full,  show  that  it  was  copied,  and  from  a  poor  manuscript. 
The  Egyptian  words  found  in  the  redaction  we  possess  indicate  that 

285 


286  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  prototype  was  written  in  Egyptian.  The  sculptor  Petesis  is 
unknown  to  us.  King  Nectanebo — whose  name  is  here  vocalised  as 
Nectonabo — was  celebrated  among  the  Greeks  of  the  Alexandrian 
period  as  a  magician  and  astrologer ;  he  was  therefore  marked  out 
as  the  recipient  of  such  a  dream  as  that  accorded  to  him  in  the  story. 
The  demotic  papyrus  from  which  I  have  taken  the  Story  of  the 
Mariner  contains  lengthy  imprecations  against  him.  The  romance 
of  Alexander,  written  much  later  by  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes,  repre- 
sents him,  instead  of  Philip  of  Macedonia,  as  the  father  of  Alexander 
the  Great.  The  Leyden  story,  transcribed  perhaps  two  hundred 
years  after  his  death,  is,  up  to  the  present,  the  earliest  known  of  the 
more  or  less  imaginative  stories  about  him  that  were  in  circulation 
in  ancient  times  and  during  the  Middle  Ages. 

In  the  year  xvi,  the  21st  day  of  Pharmuti,  in  the  night 
of  the  full  moon  which  falls  on  the  22nd,  King  Nectonabo, 
who  ruled  at  Memphis,  had  made  a  sacrifice  and  prayed  to 
the  gods  to  showhim  the  future ; '  he  imagined  that  he  beheld 
in  a  dream  the  papyrus  boat,  called  Ehops  ^  in  Egyptian, 
arrive  at  Memphis;  on  the  boat  there  was  a  great  throne, 
and  on  the  throne  was  seated  the  glorious  one,  the  beneficent 
distributor  of  the  fruits  of  the  earth,  queen  of  the  gods, 
Isis,  and  all  the  gods  of  Egypt  weire  standing  around  her, 
on  her  right  and  on  her  left.'  One  of  them,  whose  height 
the  king  reckoned  to  be  twenty  cubits,  advanced  into  the 
midst  of  the  assembly — he  who  is  called  Onuris  in  Egyptian,* 

'  The  opening  is  the  same  as  in  the  story  utilised  by  the  Egyptians  to 
explain  the  exodus  of  the  Jews,  which  Manetho  sets  forth  in  his  work. 
Amenophis  desired  to  behold  the  gods,  as  Horus  had  done  before  him 
(Josephus.  Contra  Apionem,  i,  26),  and  the  gods,  offended  at  his  wish, 
predicted  his  ruin. 

-  In  the  preceding  edition  of  this  book  (p.  255,  note  2),  I  conjectured 
that  the  original  Egyptian  of  this  word  was  romes,  ra/»ie,i,  which  is  the 
name  for  a  kind  of  bark  (of.  p.  126,  note  3  of  this  volume)  ;  Wilcken  has 
since  discovered,  in  a  Paris  papyrus,  a  form  RhSmpsis,  which  is  nearer  the 
Egyptian  term  than  Ehops  (dcr  Tramn  des  Konigs  Neetonahos,  p.  587),  and 
that  which  was  only  conjecture  has  proved  to  be  reality.  The  Egyptian 
word  is  preserved  in  the  term  ramus,  used  in  Nubia  and  Upper  Egypt 
(Burckhardt,  Travels  in  NuHa,  p.  247)  to  denote  a  canoe  made  of  rushes 
(cf.  Maspero,  Notes  d'inspeotion,  §  11,  in  Annales  du  Service  des  Antiquites, 
vol.  X,  pp.  138-141. 

'  This  is  an  exact  description  of  certain  scenes  that  occur  not  infre- 
quently in  temples  of  the  Ptolemaic  and  Boman  periods. 

*  The  transcription  adopted  at  the  present  day  for  this  name  is  Anhiir, 


ADVENTURE  OF  PETESIS  AND  KING  NECTONABO     287 

Ares  in  Greek — and,  prostrating  himself,  he  spake  thus : 
"  Come  to  me,  goddess  of  the  gods,  thou  who  hast  the 
greatest  power  on  earth,  who  commandest  all  that  is  in  the 
universe,  and  who  preservest  all  the  gods;  oh,  Isis,  be 
merciful  and  listen  to  me.  As  thou  hast  commanded,  I  have 
guarded  the  country  without  fail,  and  although  up  to  the 
present  I  have  concerned  myself  greatly  for  the  king  Nec- 
tonabo,  Samaus,'  into  whose  hands  thou  hast  given  authority, 
has  neglected  my  temple,  and  has  shown  himself  opposed  to 
my  laws.  I  am  out  of  my  own  temple,  and  the  works  in  the 
sanctuary  that  is  called  Pherso  ^  are  left  half  undone  owing 
to  the  perversity  of  the  king."  The  queen  of  the  gods 
having  listened  to  what  was  said  to  her,  answered  nothing. 

Having  seen  this  in  his  dream,  the  king  awoke,  and  he 
commanded  in  haste  that  one  should  be  sent  to  Sebennytos 
inland '  to  summon  the  high-priest  and  the  prophet  of 
Onuris.     When  they  arrived  at  the   hall  of   audience  the 

Anhuri,  Onhuri.  Anhuri  is  one  of  the  numerous  variants  of  the  sun-god  ; 
he  was  one  of  the  gods  worshipped  in  the  Thinite  nome  and  at  Sebennytos. 
He  is  represented  in  human  form,  with  a  crown  of  high  feathers  on  his 
head,  and  transfixing  a  fallen  enemy  with  his  lance.  The  XXXth  dynasty 
was  Sebennytic  in  origin,  and  Anhftri  was  its  titular  patron ;  Nectanebo  I, 
in  his  cartouche,  styled  himself  Meionhflri,  the  beloved  of  Onuris. 

'  The  hieroglyphic  equivalent  of  this  name  has  not  yet  been  found  in  the 
texts.  Wilcken  QDer  Traum  des  Konigs  Nectonabos,  pp.  586-589)  thinks  it 
may  be  recognised  as  a  transcription  of  the  banner-name  of  Nectanebo 
Tamau,  and  therefore  of  the  sovereign  himself.  But  the  banner-name  is 
not  merely  Tamau,  it  is  Hor-tamau,  and  it  seems  to  me  improbable  that 
the  writer  would  omit  to  transcribe  so  important  an  element  as  the  name 
of  Horus.  Witkowski,  on  the  contrary  {In  Smiinium  Nectanebi,  pp.  14—15), 
as  Leemans  had  done  previously,  regards  Samafts  as  the  name  of  the 
governor  of  the  city. 

^  Wilcken  (Dcr  Traum  des  Konigs  Nectotiabos,  pp.  589,  590)  has  here 
restored  a  part  of  the  sentence  that  is  missing  in  the  original.  According 
to  inscriptions  recovered  from  the  ruins  of  Sebennytos,  the  name  of  one  of 
the  principal  sanctuaries  of  this  town  was  Per-Shou,  "  the  house  of  the 
god  Shod,  Sha"  (Ahmed  bey  Kemal,  Sebennytos  et  son  temple,  in  Amiales 
du  Service  des  Antiquites,  1906,  vol  vii,  p.  90)  ;  possibly  this  corresponds 
with  Pherso. 

'  Sebennytos  is  here  called  inland  to  distinguish  it  from  the  other  town 
of  the  same  name,  which  was  situated  near  the  sea  (Wilcken,  Der  Traum 
des  Konigs  Nectonabos,  p.  590). 


288  STORIES   OF  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

king  asked  them,  "  What  are  the  works  that  are  suspended 
in  the  sanctuary  called  Pherso  ?  "     When  they  said,  "  Every- 
thing is  finished,    except   the   carving  of  the  hieroglyphic 
texts   on   the   stone   walls,"   he   commanded   in  haste  that 
letters  should  be  sent  to  the  principal  temples  of  Egypt  to 
summon  the  sacred  sculptors.     When  they  arrived  according 
to  this  command,  the  king  asked  which  of  them  was  the 
most  skilful,  and  could  soonest  finish  the  works  that  were 
suspended  in  the  sanctuary  called    Pherso.     When  he  had 
said  this,  he  of  the  city  of  Aphrodite,  of  the  Aphroditopolite 
nome,  he  who  is  named  Petesis,  son  of  Ergeus,  arose,  and 
said  he  could  finish  the  work  in  a  few  days.'      The  king 
questioned  all  the  others  after  the  same  manner,  and  they 
affirmed  that  Petesis  spake  the  truth,  and  that  there  was 
not  a  man  in  the  whole  country  that  approached  him  in 
skill.      For  this  reason   the   king  committed  the  work  in 
question  to  him,  and  also  entrusted  him  with  large  sums 
of  money  and  recommended  him  to  arrange  to  finish  the 
work  within  a  few  days,  according  to  what  he  had  told  him 
of  the    will  of  the   god.      Petesis,   having  received   much 
money,  repaired  to  Sebennytos,  and,  as  he  was  by  nature 
a  notorious  wine-bibber,  he  made  up  his  mind  to  have  a 
good  time  before  beginning  his  work. 

Now  it  chanced  that,  as  he  was  walking  in  the  southern 
part  of  the  temple,  he  met  the  daughter  of  a  maker  of 
perfumes,^  who  was  the  most  beautiful  of  those  who  were 
distinguished  for  their  beauty  in  that  place.  .  .  . 

'  Queen  Hatshopsultu  boasts  of  having  had  the  two  great  obelisks  of 
rose  granite  at  the  entrance  of  the  sanctuary  of  the  temple  at  K^rnak, 
one  of  which  is  still  standing,  quarried  near  Assuan,  transported  to  Thebes, 
carved,  polished,  and  set  up  all  in  seven  months.  The  rapidity  with  which 
such  work  was  carried  out  was  a  mark  of  skill  greatly  boasted  of  by  those 
who  possessed  it.  The  author  of  our  story  is  therefore  entirely  following 
the  Egyptian  tradition  in  representing  his  architect  as  undertaking  to 
finish  his  work  in  a  very  short  space  of  time. 

^  I  have  here  followed  Wilcken's  reading  and  correction  ;  Witkowski  (In 
Som.nlum  NectaneW,  p.  17)  regarded  the  Greek  word  as  the  name  of  the 
girl. 


ADVENTURE  OF  PETESIS  AND  KING  NECTONABO     289 

The  narrative  ends  at  the  very  point  at  which  the  action 
begins.  Petesis'  encounter  in  the  southern  part  of  the  temple 
reminds  us  of  Satni's  adventure  in  the  forecourt  of  the  temple 
of  Ptah.'  We  may  conclude,  if  we  wish,  that  the  author  is  here 
introducing  a  heroine  of  the  same  kind  as  Tbubui.  Possibly  the 
plot  centred  wholly  in  the  architect's  somewhat  bragging  promise 
to  finish  the  work  at  Phersfi  in  a  few  days.  The  god  Onuris, 
annoyed  at  seeing  Petesis  begin  a  sacred  work  with  a  bout  of 
indulgence,  or  merely  desiring  to  teach  him  a  lesson,  sent  a 
temptress  to  make  him  lose  his  time  and  money.  There  is  here 
an  opportunity  for  a  variety  of  conjectures.  The  safest  plan  is 
to  decide  on  none  of  them,  but  confess  that  there  is  nothing  in 
the  fragment  to  guide  us  as  to  the  events  or  the  conclusion  of 
the  drama. 

'  See  above,  pp.  135  et  seq. 


FEAGMENTS 

OF  THE   THEBAN-COPTIC   VERSION   OF  THE   ROMANCE   OF 
ALEXANDER 

(ARAB   period) 

The  remains  of  a  romance  of  Alexander  were  discovered  among  the 
manuscripts  of  Deir  Amta  Shenoudah,  acquired  through  me  in 
1885-8  for  the  Bibliothfeque  Nationale  at  Paris.  Three  leaves  of 
it  were  first  published  by  U.  Bouriant,  Fragments  d'un  roman 
d'Alexandre  en  dialecte  thebain,  in  the  Journal  asiatique,  1887, 
viiith  series,  vol.  ix,  pp.  1-38,  with  one  plate  ;  printed  separately  in 
8vo,  36  pp. 

Then  three  more  leaves,  a  few  months  later,  by  U.  Bouriant, 
Fragments  (Xun  rom/in  d'Alexandre  en  dialecte  tMhain  {Nouveau 
Memoire)  in  the  Journal  asiatique,  viiith  series,  vol.  x,  pp.  340-349  ; 
printed  separately,  8vo,  12  pp. 

Several  leaves  of  the  same  manuscript  were  found  soon  afterwards 
in  different  European  libraries.  In  1891  a  single  one  was  found  at 
the  British  Museum,  and  published  by  W.  E.  Crum,  Another  fragment 
of  the  Story  of  Alexander,  in  Proceedings  of  the  Society  of  Biblical 
ArchcBology,  1892,  vol.  xix,  pp.  473-482 ;  printed  separately,  8vo,  10  pjD. 
Two  at  Berlin,  which  were  noticed  as  early  as  1888  by  L.  Stern 
(Zeitschrift,  vol.  xxvi,  p.  56),  but  not  published  till  fifteen  years 
later  by  O.  de  Lemm,  Ber  Alexanderroman  bei  der  Kopten,  ein 
Beitrag  zur  Geschichte  der  Alexandersage  im  Orient,  large  8vo,  St. 
Petersburg,  1903,  vol.  xix,  161  pp.  and  two  plates. 

The  whole  of  the  fragments  and  their  arrangement,  the  nature  of 
the  episodes,  and  the  constitution  of  the  text  were  studied  almost 
simultaneously  by  O.  de  Lemm  in  the  work  just  mentioned,  and 
by  R.  Pietschmann,  Zu  den  Ueberbleibseln  des  Koptisdhen  Alexander- 
buches,  in  Beitrdge  zur Biicherskunde  und  Philologie,  August  Wilmunns 
zum  25  Marz  1903  gewidmet,  8vo,  Leipzig,  1903,  pp.  304-312 ; 
printed  separately,  12  pp. 

The  manuscript  was  written  on  a  thin,  flexible  cotton  paper,  and 
measured  about  18  centimetres  in  height  by  125  millimetres  in 

290 


ROMANCE   OF   ALEXANDER  291 

breadth.  The  writing  is  scratchy,  small,  and  rapid,  the  letters  badly 
formed,  the  spelling  corrupt,  and  the  grammar  faulty  at  times.  It 
seems  to  me  improbable  that  the  writing  is  earlier  than  the  thirteenth 
century,  but  the  redaction  of  the  work  may  go  back  as  far  as  the 
tenth  or  eleventh  century  a.d. 

As  far  as  we  can  judge  from  the  small  number  of  fragments  that 
are  preserved,  the  story  is  a  reproduction,  pure  and  simple,  of  the 
life  of  Alexander  by  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes.  That  which  remains 
of  the  chapters  dealing  with  the  poisoning  of  Alexander  is  so  closely 
allied  to  the  Gtreek  that  one  is  inclined  to  regard  it  as  a  translation. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  fragments  that  relate  to  the  old  man  Eleazar 
and  his  connection  with  Alexander,  to  the  dream  of  Menander,  and 
the  unexpected  return  of  the  Macedonian  hero  to  his  camp,  do  not 
correspond  with  those  versions  of  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes  that 
have  been  published  up  to  the  present.  I  have  come  to  the  con- 
clusion that  between  the  time  when  the  redactions  of  the  Pseudo- 
Callisthenes  that  we  possess  were  composed,  and  when  our  Theban 
redaction  was  made,  various  new  episodes,  belonging  no  doubt  to 
Egypti  or  Syria,  were  added  to  the  romance ;  and  that  it  is  this 
recension,  so  far  unknown  to  us,  which  our  fragments  have  trans- 
mitted in  part.  Was  it  in  Coptic,  in  Greek,  or  in  Arabic  ?  I  believe 
an  examination  of  the  text  allows  us  to  reply  easily  to  this 
question.  The  Coptic  remains  have  all  the  appearance  of  a  transla- 
tion, thus,  in  the  account  of  the  plot  against  Alexander,  the  Coptic 
phrase  so  exactly  follows  the  Greek  construction  that  it  is  impossible 
to  regard  it  otherwise  than  as  a  translation.  Until  further  informa- 
tion, I  shall  therefore  take  for  granted  that  our  Theban-Coptic  text 
is  a  direct  translation  from  the  Greek,  and  also  that  we  may  hope 
some  day  to  recover  one  or  more  Greek  versions  more  complete 
than  those  we  now  possess.  They  must  no  doubt  have  been  confined 
to  Egypt,  and  that  is  the  reason  that  in  Western  recensions  no 
trace  is  found  of  several  incidents  that  are  partly  recorded  in  these 
stray  Coptic  fragments. 

The  order  of  the  fragments  given  in  the  following  pages  is  that 
which  was  given  them  by  O.  de  Lemm,  and  my  translation  is  founded 
on  the  text  established  by  him. 

The  first  fragments  refer  to  an  adventure  which  is  not  related 
in  any  of  the  versions  known  to  me,  either  Eastern  or  Western. 
Alexander  disguises  himself  as  a  messenger,  as  on  the  day  when 
he  went  to  visit  the  Queen  of  Ethiopia,'  and  went  to  a  town 
under  the  rule  of  one  of  her  enemies,  probably  the  King  of 
the  Lamites.^     There,  having  laid  his  business  before  him,  he 

'  In  Pseudo-Callisthenes  (ii,  14)  he  disguises  himself  as  Hermes  to  go  to 
the  court  of  Darius. 

^  This  is  at  least  a  very  probable  conjecture,  suggested  to  Lemm  by  the 
remainder  of  the  text  (^Der  Alexandcrroman,  p.  20). 


292  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

meets  with  an  aged  Persian  i  of  the  name  of  Eleazar,  who  takes 
him  away  with  him,  and  tells  him  that  the  king  never  allows 
the  messengers  of  foreign  countries  to  return,  but  retains  them 
as  prisoners  till  their  death.  The  messengers  are  there,  im- 
patient to  see  the  new-comer.  At  the  point  where  the  story 
commences,  Alexander  has  just  been  introduced  to  them,  and 
Eleazar  has  told  him  of  the  fate  awaiting  him. 

He  said  to  Alexander,  "  Ask  each  of  these,  How  long  hast 
thou  been  in  these  parts  ?  "  The  first  of  them  said,  "  Listen 
to  me,  my  brother.  I  belong  to  the  country  of  Thrace, 
and  lo !  forty  years  ago  I  came  here ;  for  I  was  sent  with 
letters  to  this  country."  The  second  said,  "  As  to  me, 
my  brother,  lo !  I  have  spent  twenty- two  years  since  I  came 
to  the  land  of  the  Lektumenos."  ^  The  third  said  to  him, 
"  Lo !  sixty-six  years  ago  I  came  to  this  place,  for  I  was 
sent  with  letters  from  my  lord  the  king  .  .  .  es.  Now, 
console  thyself."  Eleazar  said  to  Alexander,  "  .  .  .1  have 
heard  that  it  is  the  son  of  the  king,  who  is  now  king.  As 
to  thee,  my  brother,  thou  wilt  never  see  thy  lord,  thy  king, 
again  for  ever."  Alexander  wept  bitterly.  All  who  beheld 
him  marvelled  at  him,  and  some  of  them  said,  "  He  has 
only  now  arrived,  and  his  heart  is  still  hot  within  him." 
Eleazar,  the  old  Persian,  took  hold  of  Alexander ;  he  took 
him  to  his  house.  The  messengers  followed  them,  and 
seated  themselves ;  each  of  them  talked  of  his  country  and 
lamented  over  his  family,  and  they  wept  over  Alexander. 
As  he  wept  .  .  .  my  lord  .  .  .  Eleazar  said  .  .  . 

1  do  not  exactly  know  what  happened  after  this.  It  may  be 
said  that  Alexander  succeeded  in  taking  the  city  of  the  Lamites 

'  According  to  a  very  ingenious  hypothesis  suggested  by  Lemm  (^Der 
Alexanderroman,  pp.  22,  23)  the  word  old  man  in  Coptic  is  a  literal 
translation  from  the  original  Greek  Trpecr^is;  Eleazar  was  in  reality  the 
Persian  ambassador  to  the  king  of  the  Lamites. 

2  If  this  is  not  an  invented  word  made  up  of  scraps,  it  must  at  least  be 
admitted  that  the  Coptic  copyist  has  strangely  disfigured  the  name  of  the 
people  of  that  neighbourhood  from  the  original  Greek.  LeMum-enos , 
pronounced  LeMumenos,  comprises  nearly  all  the  elements  of  the  Greek 
Lake-dcemonios.    I  believe  this  refers  to  an  envoy  of  Lacedemonia. 


ROMANCE   OF  ALEXANDER  293 

and  setting  the  prisoners  free.     One  of  the  existing  leaves  tells 
us  what  he  did  on  this  occasion. 

He  took  command  of  the  troops;  he  sent  them  with 
the  men  who  were  crucified,  while  the  women  were  chained 
together  in  groups.  Alexander  commanded  his  troops  to 
hold  the  gate  of  the  city  and  to  let  no  one  go  out.  Now 
when  it  was  daybreak  the  old  man  Eleazar  caused  a  royal 
garment  to  be  brought,  and  all  the  messengers  who  were 
there  he  loaded  in  this  manner,  with  gold,  silver,  and  all 
the  precious  stones  that  had  been  found  in  that  palace — 
sardonyx,  topaz,  jasper,  onyx,  agate,  amber,  chrysolite, 
chrysoprase,  and  amethyst; — now,  that  stone  which  is  the 
amethyst,  is  that  with  which  gold  is  tested.  Then  they 
despoiled  the  Lamites,'  and  they  went  away  from  their 
city,  and  he  established  lodae  as  its  governor.^  Alexander 
said  .  .  . 

Alexander's  speech  is  lost.  It  was  not  long,  but  its  loss  is 
annoying,  as  it  finished  the  episode.  On  the  verso  of  the  sheet, 
we  are  already  in  the  midst  of  a  new  adventure  of  which  the 
hero  is  a  certain  Antipater.  This  Antipater  seems  to  be  the  son 
of  one  of  the  messengers  who  were  with  the  Lamites,  and  the 
messenger  himself  had  been  king  of  a  town  over  which  Antipater 
was  now  reigning.  The  father,  who  had  been  set  free  by 
Alexander,  suspecting  that  his  long  captivity  would  have 
caused  him  to  be  forgotten,  did  not  wish  to  return  openly  to  his 
domains. 

'  The  Lamites  are  mentioned  in  the  martyrdom  of  St.  John  o£  Phanizolt 
(Amflineau,  Un  docuinent  copte  du  xiW  siiole,  Martyre  de  Jean  de 
Phanidjoit,  pp.  20,  52,  65),  where  the  word  is  an  abbreviation  for  Islamites, 
Mohammedan  (Lemm,  Ser  Alexanderrovian,  p.  41).  Here  we  may  recognise 
it  as  an  abbreviation  of  JElamites,  as  Bouriant  realised,  and  as  Lemm  has 
shown  after  him  {Der  Alexanderroman,  pp.  38-42).  Susa,  the  residence  of 
the  kings  of  Persia,  was  in  Blam,  and  it  would  not  be  surprising  if  the 
name  of  the  Elamites  played  an  important  part  in  the  traditions  about 
Alexander  that  were  current  among  the  people. 

^  The  name  I6da§  is  uncertain.    If  it  may  really  be  read  thus  in  this 
place,  the  propinquity  of  Eleazar  would  enable  us  to  recognise  a  name, 
ladoue,  identical  with  that  of  the  high-priest  of  Jerusalem,  whom  legend 
places  in  direct  connection  with  Alexander. 
24 


294  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

He  took  the  garments  of  a  beggar,  and  he  said  "  I  will 
prove  all  the  notables '  who  are  in  the  city,  and  I  will 
know  what  they  are  doing."  He  therefore  entered  into  the 
city  and  seated  himself  in  front  of  the  king's  house.  The 
king  had  never  seen  him,  he  only  knew  that  for  seventy- 
seven  years  his  father  had  been  with  the  Lamites.  There- 
fore he  did  not  speak  to  the  old  man,  for  he  did  not  know 
that  he  was  his  son,  and  for  his  part  the  old  man  did  not 
know  that  he  was  his  father,  the  man  who  was  there  wrapt 
in  a  mantle.  But,  behold,  a  woman  addressed  him,  and  said 
to  him,  "  Antipater,  why  dost  thou  not  go  to  search  for  thy 
father  ?  for  I  have  heard  it  said  of  the  Lamites  that  Alexander 
is  their  lord,  and  that  he  has  sent  back  all  the  messengers." 
The  young  man  said,  "  My  father  is  dead,  and  certainly  over 
forty  years  ago.  ...  As  my  father  went  away  before  I  came 
into  the  world,  and  my  mother  told  me  the  story  of  my 
father.  .  .  ." 

The  three  following  sheets  transport  us  to  Gedrosia.  Alexander 
has  fallen,  we  do  not  know  by  what  misadventure,  into  the  hands 
of  the  king  of  the  country,  who  has  condemned  him  to  be  flung 
into  Chaos,^  the  chasm  into  which  criminals  were  cast.  One  of 
the  Gedrosian  counsellors,  Antilochos,  vainly  attempted  to  com- 
mute the  sentence ;  charged  with  its  execution,  he  negotiates 
with  Alexander,  and  tries  to  find  some  means  of  saving  him. 
From  the  first  lines  of  the  fragment,  it  appears  that  this  was  the 
result  of  Alexander  lamenting  his  fate  and  exclaiming,  "  What 
would  I  not  do  for  any  one  who  would  save  me  !  "  which  was  over- 
heard by  AntUochos  as  he  entered  the  prison. 

When  Antilochos  heard  him,  he  immediately  went  to 
Alexander,  and  said  to  him,   "If  I  speak  to  the  king  to 

'  Here  the  text  gives  the  word  apa,  pronounced  amha,  which  is  applied 
in  Coptic  to  the  professed  religious.  It  is  another  proof,  in  conjunction 
with  those  we  have  already,  of  the  Egyptian  and  Christian  origin  of  this 
episode. 

^  The  text  sometimes  gives  Chaos,  sometimes  Chaosm.  It  is  an  erroneous 
reading  by  the  Coptic  translator.  The  original  Greek  must  evidently  have 
been  Tthasma,  "  a  gulf,"  which  under  the  pen  of  an  ignorant  scribe  has 
become  a  proper  noun. 


ROMANCE    OF   ALEXANDER  295 

release  thee,  what  will  thou  do  for  me  ?  "     Alexander  said  to 
him,  "  Shall  1  ever  see  thee  when  I  go  free  in  my  city  ?     If 
it  is  thus,  the  half  of  my  kingdom,  take  it  from  me,  from 
to-day."     Antilochos  gave  him  ink  and  paper,  and  he  wrote 
as  follows  :  "  By  the  throne  of  my  royalty  and  by  my  personal 
safety,  if  thou  savest  me,  all  that  thou  askest  of  me  I  shall 
give   thee."      Antilochos    therefore    sent   in    haste   to    the 
guardian  of  Chaos,  and  said  to  him,    "  Take  of  me  three 
hundredweight  of  gold,  on  a  condition  that  I  am  about  to 
tell  thee.    Alexander  the  king  has  commanded  to  throw  him 
into  Chaos,  but,  when  he  is  brought  to  thee,  hide  him  in  thy 
hiding-place,  and  throw  a  stone  of  his  shape  into  Chaos,  that 
we  may  hear  it,  we  and  those  who  are  with  us.     If  thou 
actest  thus,  thou  shalt  live,  and  thou  shalt  find  favour  with 
me,  and  when  that  man  shall  come  to  thee,  thou  shalt  find 
plenty  of  baskets  and  he  will  give  thee  numerous  presents." 
They  promised  each  other,  and  Antilochos  returned  home. 
When     it    was    daybreak,     Antilochos    bound     Alexander. 
Alexander  followed  Antilochos  until  they  arrived  at  the  edge 
of  Chaos,  and  he  beheld  it  with  his  eyes.     Alexander,  whose 
power  was  exhausted,  and  whose  strength  had  failed,  raised 
his  eyes  to  heaven,  and  spake  to  those  who  were  holding 
him,  "  Allow  me,  my  brothers,  to  behold  the  sun."    Alexander 
wept,  saying,  "  Oh  sun,  which  givest  light,  shall  I  see  thee 
again  to-morrow  morning  ?  "   He  was  brought  inside,  and  Anti- 
lochos said  to  him,  "Take  some  wine  and  bread,  and  eat,  before 
thou  beholdest  Chaos."     Alexander  said,  "  If  it  is  the  last 
bread  that  I  shall  eat,  I  will  not  eat  it."     But  Antilochos 
spake  to  him  in  a  low  voice,  and  said  to  him,  "  Eat  and  drink. 
Thy  soul,  I  will  save  it.     For  we  have  already  agreed  on  this 
method ;  when  they  seize  the  stone  and  throw  it  down,  cry 
with  a  loud  voice,  so  that  it  is  thou  whom  we  hear."     Anti- 
lochos went  out  with  ten  soldiers ;  Antilochos  said,  "  Let  us  go 
out  that  our  eyes  may  not  behold  his  misery  !  "     They  seized 
the  stone,  Alexander  cried  with  a  loud  voice.  Antilochos  said, 


296  STORIES   OP  ANCIENT  EGYPT 

weeping,  to  those  who  were  with  him,  "  Oh,  the  misery  of 
King  Alexander,  and  the  poverty  of  the  glories  of  this  world ! " 
Then  Alexander,  the  guardian  of  Chaos,  led  him  back  to 
the  city. 

The  lacuna  that  separates  this  fragment  from  the  following 
fragment  cannot  be  large.  The  guardian  of  Chaos,  after  having 
taken  Alexander  back  to  the  city,  shuts  him  up  in  a  hiding-place, 
as  had  been  ari'anged ;  on  his  side,  Antilochos  hastens  to  the 
king,  to  give  an  account  of  his  mission,  and  the  report  that 
Alexander  is  dead  spreads  everywhere.  The  effect  produced  by 
the  news  is  such  that  the  king  himself  is  alarmed,  and  regrets 
that  he  has  slain  the  hero. 

"...  Alexander  has  died  in  Chaos,"  all  those  who 
heard  it  exclaimed ;  on  hearing  them,  the  king  was  greatly 
distressed,  and  he  bewailed  himself,  with  the  queen  and  with 
Antilochos,  and  he  said,  "  I  repent  me  at  having  thrown  that 
great  king  into  Chaos,  and  I  fear  that  his  army  may  march 
against  us."  Antilochos  said  to  him,  "  I  was  wearied  with 
praying  thee,  '  Let  him  go.'  And  thou  wouldst  not  let 
thyself  be  persuaded  to  listen  to  me,  and  thou  didst  not 
incline  thy  face  to  me."  The  king  said,  "  Why  didst  thou 
not  find  some  means  of  sending  him  away  ?  "  Now,  during 
the  night  Alexander  was  taken  to  the  house  of  Antilochos, 
he  was  received,  and  he  was  let  down  into  a  hole,  and  all 
that  was  necessary  was  given  him.  The  tidings  spread 
over  the  whole  country,  "  Alexander  is  dead,"  and  all  those 
who  heard  it  became  congealed  like  stone  on  account  of  that 
which  had  happened. 

After  that,  Menander  saw  a  dream  of  this  kind,  and  he 
perceived  a  vision  in  this  manner  :  he  beheld  a  lion  loaded 
with  irons  that  one  was  throwing  into  a  fosse.  And  behold 
a  man  said  to  him,  "  Menander,  why  dost  thou  not  go  down 
with  this  lion,  since  his  purple  is  fallen  ?  arise  now,  and  take 
him  by  the  collar  of  his  purple."  In  haste  he  arose,  and 
he  spake  to  Selpharios,  as  well  as  to  Diatrophe,  saying,  "  Are 


ROMANCE   OF   ALEXANDER  297 

you  aaleep  ?  "  They  said,  "  What  is  the  matter,  oh  first  of 
the  philosophers,'  Menander  ?  "  He  said,  weeping,  "  The 
dream  that  I  have  seen  will  turn  out  against  the  enemies 
of  Alexander,  for  the  vision  of  those  who  hate  him  has 
passed  before  me  in  a  dream,  and  I  have  been  petrified  with 
grief."  Menander  said  to  them,  "The  lion  I  saw  is  the 
king."  While  they  exchanged  these  words  till  the  morning, 
behold,  a  messenger  came  to  Selpharios,  Menander,  and 
Diatrophe,  crying  and  weeping,  and  he  said  to  them,  "  Who 
will  hear  those  words  that  I  have  heard  and  keep  silence  ? 
It  is  a  terror  to  speak  them,  it  is  an  infamy  to  pronounce 
them."  Menander  said,  "  What  is  this  speech,  my  son  ? 
I  know  already  what  has  happened  to  King  Alexander." 
The  messenger  said  to  them,  "  Men  worthy  of  death  have 
raised  their  hand  on  our  lord  the  king,  in  Gedrosia,  and  they 
have  slain  him."  Menander  took  his  vestment  of  purple 
and  tore  it ;  Selpharios  and  Diatrophe  tore  their  chlamydes, 
they  bewailed  themselves,  and  they  all  did  as  though  there 
was  an  earthquake.  Diatrophe  said,  "  I  will  go,  and  I  will 
bring  back  tidings  of  my  lord."  He  took  with  him  a 
khiliarch  ^  and  three  soldiers,  and  they  went  to  Gedrosia,  they 
heard  the  tidings,  they  knew  all  that  had  happened,  and 
they  returned  to  the  camp,  and  they  told  Menander,  they 
repeated  it  to  him  with  groans  and  tears,  saying,  "... 

The  three  personages  introduced  here  do  not  usually  figure 
among  Alexander's  companions.  Two  of  them,  Selpharios  and 
Diatrophe — a  man,  notwithstanding  the  feminine  form  of  his 
name — are  entirely  unknown.  It  appears  to  me  that  Menander 
is  the  comic  poet  of  that  name,  whose  moral  maxims,  taken  from 
his  comedies,  acquired  so  great  a  reputation  in  the  Christian 

'  I  have  restored  the  text  thus,  by  analogy  with  the  Byzantine  titles, 
protospathaxios,  protostrator,  protovestarchos,  protonosocomos,  and  proto 
notary.     M.  de  Lemm  prefers  to  restore  the  title  protopMlos,  the  first 
friend    (X>er  Alexanderroman,  pp.   68-69,   132-133),  which    is    no    less 
probable. 

'  A  damaged  word  which  I  think  I  can  recognise  as  khiliarch,  the  term 
for  a  commandant  of  1,000  men. 


298  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

world  ;  the  title  borne  by  him,  First  of  Philosophers  or  First 
of  Friends,  shows  us  that  tradition  assigned  him  a  high  rank 
among  the  crowd  of  learned  men  and  scribes  that  accompanied 
Alexander  to  the  East.  He  seems,  in  fact,  to  exercise  consider- 
able authority  over  those  around  him,  for  it  is  he,  in  conjunction 
with  Selpharios,  who  takes  the  measures  necessary  under  these 
circumstances ;  in  two  or  three  pages,  now  lost,  he  announces  to 
the  troops  the  tidings  of  Alexander's  death,  he  orders  mourning, 
and  he  goes  to  besiege  the  town  where  the  crime  has  been 
committed,  in  order  to  obtain  vengeance.  In  the  meantime, 
Antilochos,  taking  advantage  of  the  king's  remorse,  has  told  him 
that  Alexander  still  lives,  and  the  adventure  ends  with  an 
agreement  by  which  the  Macedonian  recovers  his  liberty,  on 
condition  of  forgetting  the  injury  received  by  him.  Knowing 
that  his  army  beheved  him  to  be  dead,  he  desired  to  test  the 
fidelity  of  his  subordinates,  and  he  disguised  himself,  so  that  he 
might  mix  with  them  freely. 

When  the  evening  came,  Alexander  took  the  outfit  of 
a  plain  soldier,  and  went  out  to  go  to  the  camp.  Now 
Selpharios  had  forbidden  in  his  proclamation  that  any  one 
should  drink  wine  or  clothe  themselves  in  fine  garments, 
during  the  forty  days  of  mourning  in  honour  of  King 
Alexander.  Alexander  came,  therefore,  and  he  beheld 
Agricolaos,  king  of  the  Persians,  stretched  on  his  bed,  who 
spake  to  his  people  :  "  Arise  now,  ye  men  of  heart,  eat  and 
drink,  for  a  yoke  is  fallen  off  you,  this  Alexander,  who  has 
been  slain.  What  is  it,  then,  that  you  have  in  your  hearts  ? 
I  will  not  allow  you  to  remain  thus,  slaves  of  Macedonia  and 
of  Egypt."  ^  Alexander  said  to  himself  aside,  "  No,  in  faith, 
it  will  not  be  to-day  that  thou  eatest  and  that  thou  drinkest, 
excellent  man,  who  art  so  pleased  with  thyself."  He  arose 
therefore,  and  he  said  to  them,  "  Why  dost  thou  not  eat  and 
drink  ?  For  he  is  dead,  who  made  you  to  die  in  these  wars  ; 
now  that  he  himself  has  been  made  to  die,  rejoice,  be  full 

'  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that,  according  to  the  romance,  Alexander  is 
the  son  of  Nectanebo,  that  is  to  say,  of  an  Egyptian  king.  To  obey  him 
is  therefore  to  obey  Egypt  as  well  as  Macedonia. 


ROMANCE   OF  ALEXANDER  299 

of  happiness."  They  said  to  him,  "Thou  art  mad."  And 
when  they  had  said  that,  they  began  to  throw  stones  at  him. 
Alexander  remained  hidden  until  the  middle  of  the  night ; 
he  then  went  to  the  house  of  Antilochos,  he  mounted  on 
Chiron/  and  he  went  to  the  place  where  Menander  was,  for 
his  eyes  were  heavy  with  sleep.  He  said  to  Menander,  to 
Selpharios,  and  to  Diatrophe,  "It  is  you  who  are  my 
strength."  Menander  said,  "  My  father,  what  is  it  ?  Is  it 
then  an  untruth  that  I  have  heard  about  thee  ?  "  When 
they  were  silent,  he  began  to  speak :  "  I  am  indeed  Alexander, 
who  was  slain  by  them  of  Gedrosia,  but  Antilochos  has  given 
me  back  my  life  ;  Chiron,  tell  them  what  has  chanced  to 
me."  When  it  was  dawn,  he  seated  himself  on  the  throne 
of  his  royalty.  Alexander  thereupon  caused  the  herald  to 
proclaim,  saying,  "  King  Alexander  has  arrived."  And 
thereupon  the  multitude  came.  Agricolaos  himself  came, 
and  he  said,  "  We  have  seen  thy  face,  and  we  live."  King 
Alexander  said  to  him,  "  Thou  hast,  then,  awaked  from  thy 
drunkenness  of  last  night,  when  thou  saidst,  '  The  yoke  of 
Alexander  has  been  taken  from  us ;  eat,  drink.'  "  The  king 
thereupon  commanded  to  cut  off  his  head  with  a  sword ;  the 
king  said,  "  Take  now  vinegar  in  place  of  the  wine  that  thou 
hast  drunk,  until  thou  art  drunken  with  it."  Then  King 
Alexander  said,  "  Bring  me  the  ilarchs,"  ^  and  they  were 
brought  to  him  .  .  . 

Selpharios  is  the  hero  of  the  fragment  that  follows,  but  I  see 
nothing  in  the  Pseudo-Oallisfchenes  which  resembles  that  which 
we  find  in  the  Coptic  text.    Defeated  in  a  first  expedition  against 

'  This  must  be  the  centaur  Chiron,  for  later  on  Alexander  says,  "  Chiron, 
tell  them  what  happened  to  me."  This  would  only  be  said  to  a  being 
possessed  of  a  human  voice,  as  the  centaur  was.  The  substitution  of 
Chiron  for  Bucephalus  is  in  itself  an  indication  of  a  bad  period ;  such 
confusion  could  only  have  occurred  at  a  time  and  in  a.  country  where 
ancient  tradition  was  already  much  obliterated. 

2  I  had  regarded  the  word  Alarichos  which  occurs  in  the  text  as  the  name 
of  a  man.  Lemm  {Der  Alexanderroman,  p.  86)  has  taken  it  as  the  title 
ilarchos,  the  commandants  of  the  Macedonian  cavalry. 


300  STORIES   OF   ANCIENT  EGYPT 

the  Persians,  and  on  the  point  of  again  starting  for  war,  he 
dictates  his  will. 


"  Then  they  went  away.  They  heard  the  name  of  .  .  . 
Jeremiah  .  .  .  thy  health  .  .  .  the  king,  behold  that  which 
thou  shalt  do ;  he  who  brings  thee  my  letter,  be  merciful  to 
him,  and  deliver  him,  so  that  he  may  go  away  with  all 
that  is  his.  I  salute  .  .  .  the  general ;  I  salute  Jeremiah 
and  Dracontios,  I  salute  Sergios  and  Philea.  My  son,  who 
shall  place  thy  mouth  on  my  mouth,  thy  eyes  on  my  eyes, 
my  hands  on  thy  hair  ?  The  birds  of  the  air  who  fly,  they 
fill  their  beaks  with  the  fruits  of  the  fields,  and  they  bring 
them  in  their  beaks  to  their  little  ones ;  and  they,  the 
fledglings,  they  rejoice  in  the  presence  of  their  parents, 
by  reason  of  the  provision  that  they  have  made  for  them, 
and  they  beat  their  little  wings,  and  it  is  thus  that  the 
little  birds  show  their  kindliness.  Thou  thyself,  Philea, 
mine  own  son,  remember  the  hour  when  I  went  forth  from 
...  In  a  dream  he  has  seen  the  ruin  of  our  great  lord 
Alexander.  .  .  .  May  Alexander,  our  king,  rest  a  moment ; 
consider  .  .  .  my  power  for  thee.  I  have  fought  .  .  . 
Okianos,  and  I  have  overthrown  him,  but  I  have  not  been 
able  to  overcome  the  valour  of  the  Persians;  they  have 
been  the  most  powerful,  and  they  have  conquered  me.  I, 
Selpharios,  I  have  written  this  with  mine  own  hand ;  when 
thou  art  grown,  look  at  it,  and  take  notice  of  it,  read  it 
and  recite  it,  with  tears  and  lamentations.  I  have  written 
the  lines  of  my  will  with  the  tears  of  my  eyes  for  ink, 
for  the  places  where  I  used  to  drink  are  become  solitudes, 
and  the  places  where  I  refreshed  myself  are  become  deserts. 
I  salute  you  one  by  one,  my  brethren ;  fare  ye  well,  my 
beloved,  and  remember  me." 

When  he  had  written  this,  he  gave  the  paper  to  Alexander, 
and  Alexander  wept,  and  turned  away  his  eyes,  that  Selpharios 
might  not  see  him.     Alexander  said,  .  .  . 


ROMANCE   OF   ALEXANDER  301 

The  episode  that  follows  recalls  one  of  the  most  curious 
passages  of  the  Pseudo-Callisthenes,  where  Alexander,  arrived 
at  the  confines  of  the  country  of  the  dead,  wishes  to  enter 
and  plunge  into  the  darkness  which  separates  it  from  the  land 
of  the  living. 

He  marvelled  at  the  beauty  of  the  garden,  from  which 
four  rivers  flowed,  which  are  the  Pison,  the  Grihon,  the 
Tigris,  and  the  Euphrates ;  they  drank  the  waters,  and 
rejoiced,  for  they  were  sweet.  Thereupon  they  perceived 
the  thick  darkness,  and  they  said,  "  We  cannot  enter  there." 
Menander  said,  "  Let  us  take  brood-mares,  let  us  mount 
them,  and  let  their  foals  be  kept  back,  while  we  plunge 
into  the  darkness."  They  marvelled,  for  it  was  very  dark, 
so  that  they  could  not  see  the  faces  of  their  comrades. 
Alexander  said,  "  Come  with  me,  thou  Menander,  as  well 
as  Selpharios  and  Diatrophe."  They  mounted  four  brood- 
mares, while  their  foals  remained  in  the  light,  so  that  each 
heard  the  voice  of  the  other,  and  they  plunged  into  the 
darkness.  But  they  heard  a  voice  which  said,  "Alexander 
and  Menander,  as  well  as  Selpharios  and  Diatrophe,  consider 
yourselves  happy  to  have  penetrated  thus  far."  Alexander 
said,  "I  shall  not  consider  myself  happy  until  I  find  that 
which  I  seek."  He  pushed  forward  a  little,  and  he  stopped 
with  his  mare.  The  voice  said  to  him  a  second  time, 
"  Consider  thyself  happy,  oh  Alexander."  But  Alexander 
would  not  stop ;  he  looked  beneath  the  feet  of  his  horses, 
and  he  perceived  some  lights.  Alexander  said,  "  Let  us 
take  these  lights,  for  they  are  precious  stones."  Selpharios 
stretched  out  his  hand  and  took  four,  Menander  three, 
Diatrophe  two ;  as  to  Alexander,  he  stretched  out  his  left 
hand  and  filled  it,  and  he  took  three  stones  with  his  right 
hand,  and  immediately  his  left  hand  became  as  his  right 
hand,  and  when  he  went  to  war,  from  that  hour  he  fought 
with  his  two  hands.  Alexander  smelt  a  strong  perfume, 
but  the  voice  reached  the  ears  of  Alexander  for  the  third 


302  STORIES    OF   ANCIENT   EGYPT 

time,  "  Consider  thyself  satisfied,  oh  Alexander.  "When  a 
horse  hastens  too  much  in  running,  he  stumbles  and  falls." 
And  the  voice  spake  again.  "I  ask  thee,  what  dost  thou 
desire  ?  "  Alexander  said,  "  Give  me  power  over  the  entire 
earth,  and  let  my  foes  submit  to  me."  The  voice  said  to 
him,  "  Since  thou  hast  not  asked  a  long  life,  but  merely 
power  over  the  whole  world,  behold  the  whole  world,  thou 
shalt  see  it  with  thine  eyes,  and  thou  shalt  be  its  lord  ;  but 
when  morning  sheds  its  light,  then  .  .  ." 

The  voice  probably  announced  immediate  death,  but  either 
by  stratagem  or  prayer  Alexander  succeeded  in  obtaining  a 
prolongation  of  life,  which  he  made  use  of  to  visit  the  Brach- 
manes  in  their  country.  A  leaf  which  we  possess  contains  a 
description  of  their  costumes,  manners,  and  customs;  but  the 
lines  are  all  so  damaged  that  no  consecutive  text  can  be  con- 
structed from  it.  All  that  can  be  made  out  shows  that  it  deals 
with  the  country  of  the  Homerites,  with  Kalanos,  of  which 
the  name  is  changed  to  Kalynas,  with  India,  the  beds  of  leaves 
used  by  the  Gymnophistes,  and  their  nudity  ;  but  the  connection 
between  these  scanty  gleanings  is  not  traceable. 

The  last  of  the  fragments  we  found  belongs  to  the  end  of 
the  work.  It  relates,  in  terms  that  forcibly  recall  those  employed 
by  the  Pseudo-Oallisthenes,  the  intrigues  that  preceded  the  death 
of  Alexander,  and  the  method  by  which  Antipater  prepared  and 
poured  out  the  poison  by  which  the  hero  died. 

He  calmed  the  rage  of  Olympias  and  its  anger  with 
Antipater,  by  sending  Krateros  into  Macedonia  an.d  Thessaly. 
When  Antipater  knew  of  the  wrath  of  Alexander — for  he 
learnt  it  from  the  men  who  had  been  licensed  for  military 
service — Antipater  conspired  to  slay  Alexander,  in  order 
that  he  might  escape  great  tortures;  for  he  had  heard 
and  he  knew  what  Alexander  intended  against  him,  on 
account  of  his  arrogancy  and  his  intrigues.  Now,  Alexander 
sent  for  the  troop  of  archers,  who  were  in  considerable 
numbers,  to  come  to  Babylon.  Among  them  there  was 
a  son  of  Antipater,  named  Julios,  who  waited  on  Alexander. 


ROMANCE   OF   ALEXANDER  303 

Antipater  prepared  a  fatal  potion,  of  which  no  vase,  either 
of  bronze  or  of  pottery,  could  endure  the  strength,  but 
all  fell  to  pieces  as  soon  as  it  touched  them.  When  there- 
fore he  had  prepared  it,  he  put  it  in  an  iron  receptacle, 
and  gave  it  Casandra,  his  son,  whom  he  sent  as  page  to 
Alexander.  When  Casandra  came  to  Babylon,  he  found 
Alexander  engaged  in  offering  a  sacrifice,  and  receiving 
those  who  came  to  him.  He  spake  to  Julios,  his  brother, 
for  he  was  the  first  cup-bearer  of  Alexander.  Now,  it  had 
chanced,  a  few  days  before,  that  Alexander  had  struck 
the  servitor  Julios  on  the  head  with  a  staff,  while  he 
was  seated,  for  a  reason  that  arose  from  a  want  of  care ; 
for  this  the  young  man  was  furious,  and  willingly  declared 
himself  ready  to  commit  the  crime.  He  took  with  him 
Mesios  the  Thessalonian,  a  friend  of  Alexander,  and  one 
of  his  judges  whom  he  had  punished  for  prevarication,  and 
they  agreed  between  them  to  cause  Alexander  to  drink 
the  poison. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 

ON   THOSE    WHO    CAUSED    ALEXANDER   TO    DRINK   THE    DEATH 

POTION 

Who  looks  at  a  table  that  does  not  belong  to  him,  his 
existence  is  not  life. 

The  commencement  of  this  chapter  does  not  belong  to  the 
romance ;  as  Lemm  ^  has  recognised,  it  is  a  simple  epigraph 
borrowed  from  one  of  the  books  of  the  Old  Testament,  that 
of  Jesus,  son  of  Sirach.^  Nothing  of  the  narrative  itself  remains. 
What  I  have  to  say  about  the  Theban  version  of  the  romance 
of  Alexander  ends  here ;  it  may  still  be  hoped  that  fresh  frag- 
ments may  be  found  to  enrich  our  collection,  and  they  will 
enable  us  some  day  to  recognise  with  more  accuracy  their 
connection  with  the  versions  known  at  the  present  time.  The 
special  value  that  is  now  attached  to  them  arises  from  the  fact 
that,  with  the  fragments  of  the  Romance  of  Cambyses  recently 
discovered  by  Schafer,  they  form  the  sole  evidence  that  remains 
to  us  of  the  existence  of  those  Coptic  manuscripts  to  which 
Arab  authors  so  often  refer,  and  from  which  they  assert  that 
they  acquired  their  fabulous  history  of  Ancient  Egypt. 

'  0.  de  Lemm,  Der  Alexanderroman,  pp.  129-131. 
^  Jesus,  son  of  Siraoh,  xi,  29. 


INDEX   OF   PROPER   NAMES 


Aaa,  73 

Abdemon,  xxix 

Abu-Roash,  72 

Abu-zabel,  72 

Abydos,  Ix  n.  2,  Ixxiii 

Aeerbas,  206  n.  1 

Aesop,  xxix 

Afrioanus,  170 

Agricolas,  298 

Ahasuerus,  281 

Ahmasi,  xliv,  Iv,  281 

Ahmasi-si-Abna,  109  n.  3 

Ahmed,  xlix 

Ahmed-ibn-Tulun,  30  n.  3 

Ahmdsis,  270  n.  9 

Ahnes  el  Medineh,  47  n.  4 

Ahuri,  xxxiv,  xlvii,  Ixiv,  119  seq. 

Aia,  73 

Am  Musa,  1 66  «.  2 

Ai-Sanafrui,  72 

Ajah,  73 

Akhthoes,  il  n.  2 

Alasia,  203,  204 

Alexander,  xxxiii,  263,  286,  290 

Alexandria,  268 

Ali  Baba,  xi,  xxxii,  109 

Amaifc,  150 

Amanua,  20  n.  2 

Amanusihait,  205,  212 

Amasis,  280 

Amauni-Amanau,   107 

Ame,  244 

Amenemhabi,  109  n.  3 

Anxenemhait,   xxv,  74,    77  n.   4, 

78  n.  2,  84 
Anxenophis,  286  n.  1 
Amenothes,  xxviii  n.  1 
AmenothesII,  xxviii  »i.  1,  198  Ji.  1 
Amentit,  9  n.   1,   148,   150,   169, 

215 
AmSu,  244 
Amgiad,  xix 
Amit,  225  n.  2 
Ammuianashi,  77,  82 


Amon,  Iviii,  88,  157,  203,  204, 
219,  244,  245,  246  n.  4 

—  of  the  Road,  xxvii  n.  3,  204, 
207,  214 

Amoni,  xxv,  Ixix 

Amoni-Amenemhait,  Ixix 

Amonra,  175,  205,  233 

Anhur  (Anhuri),  286  n.  4 

Ani,  xlvii 

Ankh,  282,  ■«.  5 

Ankhhophis,  235 

Ankhhoru,  225,  226,  233,  244 

Ankhutaui,  24  n.  1,  136  n.  3 

Antar,  Ixvii 

Anteia,  xviii 

Antilochos,  294 

Antipater,  293  aeq.,  302 

Antipatrideis,  xxxi 

Anubis,  xxiii  n.  4,  Iviii,  66,  150 

Anupu,  xvi,  xxiii,  xlii,  3 

Anupui,  xxiv  n.  I 

Anysis,  xxxiii,  171  et  seq. 

Aphrodite,  288 

Aphroditopolite-nome,  288 

Apis,  15  n.  3 

ApoUobechis,  19 

Apophis,  269 

Apopi,  xii,  xxviii,  263,  270  et  seq. 

Apuriu,  112 

Arabian  nights,  ix,  xix,  xx  n.  1, 
xxxi,  xxxvii,  xlix,  109 

Ares,  287 

Arinar,  xxi 

Aroiris,  89  n.  1 

Arsinoe,  73 

Artemidorus,  Ixxii  n.  4 

Asari,  47 

Asaru,  Ixvi 

Asfiin,  157  «.  2 

Ashmunein,  161  n.  1 

Ashukhitu,  xxxv  n.  4 

Assad,  xix 

Assasif,  127  n.  4 

Assuan,  221  n.  2,  288  n.  1 


305 


306 


JNDEX   OF   PROPER  NAMES 


Assyrians,  170,  243 
Asukhis,  XXXV  n.  4 
Asychis,  xxxiii,  xxxv  n.  4 
Athribis,  xxxviii,   72,  235 
Athu,  90 
Athyr,  liii,  Ivii 

Atumu,  88  n.  2,  166,  221,  230 
Atys,  xxii 
Avaris,  270  n.  10 

Baal,  113  re.  4,  237,  241  n.  4 

Babylon,  xxix,  302 

Bactrians,  183 

Badilu,  205 

Badur,  xix 

Bahr-bela-ma,  Ixxiii 

Bahr  Yusuf,  72 

Baiti,  xvi,  xxiii  n.  2,  xli,  li,  3  w.  3 

seq. 
Baiufriya,  22,  27 
Bakhtan,  xxvii,  175  et  seq. 
Baklulu,  234 
Balikh,  175  n.  2 
Bastit,  Iviii,  23,  78  n.  1 
Beduin,  Ixvi,  74,  76,  80 
Belbeis,  72 
Bellerophon,  xvii 
Benha-el-Assal,   72 
Beni-Hasan,  20  n.  2 
Beti,  3  n.  3 
Biamu,  244 
Bigeh,  Ixxi,  100  n.  2 
Bintrashit,  xxvii,  Ixvii,   176  «..   1, 

seq. 
Birkatil,  209 
Birket  Karun,  217 
—  Nu,  Ixxii 
Bocehoris,   xxvi 
Bonaparte,  xxxiii 
Boqait,  Ixi  n.  1 
Boukolos,  244 
Boulaq,  115 
Boutes,  xxiii  n.  6 
Brachmanes,   302 
Bubastis,  78  n.  1,  137 
Bucolics,  xli,  244 
Busiris,  xxxviii,  221,  222,  244 
Butes,  3  n.  3 
Butes,  xxiii  n.  5,  3  m.  3 
Buti,  3  n.  3 
Buto,  xxvi  n.  1,  xli,  243,  245  n.  3, 

257 
Byblos,  Ixvi,  73,  203,  206,  230 
Bytis,  xxiii  n.  5,  3  n.  3 

Cambyses,  xxxiii,   195,  304 
Casandra,  303 
Cataonia,  249  n.  3 


Chaos,  294  n.  2 

Charlemagne,  xxvi,  xxvii 

Charobe,  268 

Cheops  (c/.  Khufui),  xi,  xiii,  xiv, 

xxvi,  xxxii-xxxvii,  21,  23,  42, 

284 
Chephren,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  42 
ChUluk,  240  n.  1 
Chimaera,  xviii 
Chiron,  299  n.  1 
Cimmerians,  241  n.  3 
Cleopatra,  xxi,  xliv,  Ivi 
Clitophon,  Ixvii 
Combabos,  xxii  n.  5 
Coptos,  Ixiv,  124  seq. 
Cybele,  xxii 
Cynopolite  nome,  xxiii 
Cyprus,  204 

Dadufhoru,  xiii,  30,  33 

Dahehur,  74 

Daphnae,  180,  181 

Dardanus,  119m.  1 

Darius,  291  «.  1 

David,  204 

Deir  Amba  Shenoudah,  290 

Deir  el  Bahari,  xliv,  Iv 

Deir  el  Medineh,  x,  xxviii  n.   1, 

xlv  n.  1,  Iv.  n.  5 
Delta,  xli,  liv  n.  5 
Demeter,  196 
Democritus,  119  «.  1 
Denderah,  xliv,  xlv,   127  /t.  4 
Diatrophe,  296  seq. 
Didi,  li,  30  seq. 
Dido,  206  n.  \ 
Didu,  xiii,  225  n.  2 
Didufhoru,  30,  135  »i.  2 
Didusanafrui,  30,  31 
Dimeh,  217 
Dinkas,  Ixxi 
Dio  Cassius,  xli  n.  3 
Diodorus,  xxxviii  n.  2 
Diospolis,  xxxviii,  xxxix,  221,  240 
Dodecharchy,  xxvi  n.  1,  219 
Dora,  203,  205 
Dracontios,  300 
Drah-Abu'l-Neggah,  276  n.  1 
Dupu,  245  n.  3 

Ecbatana,  195 

Edessa,  xxxi 

Edima,  73 

Eiernharerou,  xxxv  n.  1,  117  ji.  1, 

219,  243 
El  Amarna,  109  ».   1 
Elamites,  293  n.  1 
Eleazar,  291  seq. 


INDEX    OF   PROPER   NAMES 


307 


Elephantine,  xxxviii,  90  n.  2,  100, 

221,  227,  234,  259 
EI,  Ixvi 
El-Hibeh,  202 
El-Kab,  4  n.  3 
EI-MaghMr,  73 
Embabeh,  72 
Emim,  108 
Ennana,  3,  20 
Ergeus,  288 
Erment,  xliv,  Iv 
Eryfchrajan  Sea,   181 
Esneh,  88  n.  1 
Etbaye,  Ixxi 

Ethiopia,  xiii,  li  n.  6,  Ixxi,  182,  291 
Euphrates,  301 


Fayum,  283 
Fechn,  202 
Fonkhu,  90  n.  1 


Gatatani,  24:9  n.  3 

Gattani,  249  n.  3 

Gebel  Ahmar,  72,   166  n.   1 

Gebel  Giyuchi,  72 

Gebire,  268 

Gedrosia,  294 

Germain,  xxi 

Gihon,  301 

Gizeh,  XXXV,  243 

Glaucus,  xvii 

Greek  nxercenaries,  xlvi 

Gurneh,  xxiv 

Gynmophistes,  302 

Halat-en-nafus,  xix 
Hakhininnsuiti,  47  n.  4 
Hakoris,  257 
Hanufi,  235 

Hapis,  221,  222  (See  Apis) 
Hapm,  xxviii  n.  1 
Haraui,  20 
Harbisa,  226  et  seq. 
Hariu-Horu,  74,  91 
Harmakhis,  8  n.  2,  174  seq 
Harmakhuiti,  8  n.  2,  237 
Harmhabi,  xliii  n.   1 
Haroeris-Ba,  88 
Harshafi,  57 
Harsiesit,  75  n.  5. 
Harueri,  75  n.  5,  89  n.  1 
Harui,  226 

Harutt-nabit-duu-doshir,   72,   70 
Haruiu-Shaiu,  79  n.  4 
Harun-ar-rashid,   xxxvii 
Hdthor,  Iv,  72,  94  n.  1,  225  n.  2 


Hatibi,  21 G 

Hatshopsuitu,    Ixviii,    100    n.    2, 

177  n.  1,  288  n.  1 
Hauaru,  209,  270  n.  10 
Heoata3us,  xxxviii  n.  2 
Helen,  xxxii,  95  n.  1 
Heliodorus,  xli,  Ixvii 
Heliopolis,  xxxviii,  xxxix,  88  n.  2, 

234,  258 
Henassieh,  47  n.  4 
Hephaestion,  xvi  n.  4 
Hephsestus,  171,  182 
Hermes,  291  n.  1 
Hermes  Trismegistus,  161  «.  1 
Hermonthis,  Ivi  n.  4 
Herraopolis,  161  n.  1 
Herodotus,  xli,   xliv,   xlvi,  xlviii, 

170,  180 
Hieraconpolis,  149  n.  4 
Higa,  256 
Hippolytus,  xvii 
Hiqatt,  Ivi,  36  seq. 
Hiram,  xxix,  204 
Hobs-bagai,  33  n.  1 
Homerites,  302 
HorapoUo,  Iviii  n.  1 
Horites,  73 
Horus,  the  child,  lii 

—  the  elder,  75  n.  5,  88,  89  n.  1 

—  in  the  two  horizons,  8  n.  2 

—  king  as,  84,  89  n.  4,  174 

—  son  of  Isis,  xliv,  74,  75  n.  5, 245, 
286 

—  son  of  Panishi,  Ixiii,  160,  162, 
166  et  seq. 

—  son  of  Tnahsit  the   negress,  li, 
Iviii,  153,  158  n.  3,  163,  166 

—  son  of  Triphrit,  1 58  to.  4, 

—  son  of  Tririt,  158  m.  2 
Hrihoru,  Ixviii,  203,  213  n.  1 
Hu-Sau,  liv 

Hyksos,  22,  113  to.  4,  153  to.  2 


labu,  90  TO.  2 

ladoue,  293  to.  2 

lakhuit,  75 

lauku,  72 

lauma,  name  of  Nile,  9  ra.  1 

Ibshan,  219 

Idumea,  73 

Imu,  108 

Inaros,    xxxv,    xxxix,    117,    134 

219,  239  et  seq. 
India,  302 
Inferno,  xiii 
I6da«,  293  n.  2 


308 


INDEX   OF    PROPER  NAMES 


Isis,  lii,  liv  n.  4,  Ivi,  11  re.  2,  36, 

126,  245 
Ismaiiia,  74 
Ivan,  xxi 

Jacob,  37  n.  4 

Jeremiah,  300 

Jesus,  son  of  Sirach,  304 

Joppa,  XXX,  Ixvi,  Ixvii,  108 

J6pu,  XXX,  108 

Juba,  Ixxii  n.  4 

Julios,  302  seq. 

Jupiter  Amon,  xxvi  n.  1 

Kadima,  73,  77,  85 

Kakaui,  39  n.  1 

Kalanos,  Kalynas,  302 

Kamaralzaman,  xix 

ICapuna,  73 

Karnak,  xxiv,  157  n.  2,  174,  288 

n.  1 
Kaushu,  19 
Kazareti,  Ixvi 
Kedem,  73 
Khfifriya,  xxv,  23 
Khamois    (c/.    Satni),    xxxiii,    li, 

204,  214 
Khamsin,  248  n.    1 
Khanes,  47  n.  4 
Kharu,  73,  109,  188,  237  n.  2 
Khati,  xxvii,  Iv  n.  3,  46,  175  n.  5 
Khato,  90  n.  SjM'iiiSrf 
Khattusil  II,  xxvii,  175  n.  5 
Khaziru,  241 
Khemmis,  245 
Khininnsuit,  47,  50  n.  3 
Khmunu,  161 
Khnumisuitu,  74  '^^ 
Khnumu,  xvi  n.  4,  Ivi,  12,36,241 

n.  4,  259 
Kholak,  liii 
Khoiris,  237 
Khonshotpu,  xlvii 
Khonsu,    xxvii,   xxviii,    173,   176 

n.  4 
Khonsuhanutirnabit,   174 
Khonsumhabi,  276 
Khonti,  90  n.  3 
Khonti-Kaushu,  89  n.  5 
Khopirkeriya,  xxv,  Ixix,  84  lo.  5 
Khoprui-maruiti,   221 
Kliufui,  xxiv-xxvi,  xxxvii,  21  seq., 

23,  284 
Khunianupu,  46 
Ejieph,  157  n.  1 
Knuphis,  161  n.  1 
Kodshu,  XXX 
Krateros,  302 


Lacedemonia,  292  n.  2 
Lamites,  291,  292  n.  1,  293 
Latopolis,  219 
Lektumenos,  292  n.  2 
Leucippus,  Ixvii 
Libyans,  xlvi 
Lisht,  91  n.  4 
Lotanu-iLGtan,  73,  77  n.  2 
Luxor,  xxiv,  xliv,  Iv 
Lycerus,  xxix 
Lycia,  xviii 


Macedonia,  302 

Madenifc,  47  n.  5 

Mafkit,  225  n.  2 

Magidi,  Ixvi 

Mahituaskhit,  xlvii,  xlix  n.  2,  Ixiii, 

lie  seq.,  155 
Maiaemapit,  20 

Maihet,  xxxiv,  Ixiv,  1 1 9  e(  aeq. 
Makamaru,  206 
Maki,  89 
Makrizi,  1  n.  2 
Maluli,  xxxiii  n.  1 
Manahkbiya,  109  n.  1 
Manakhphre,  xxv  n.  6,  xxxvi  n.  3, 

157,  159,  161 
Manakhpirriya,  109  n.  1 
Mandulis,  xxxiii  n.  1 
Manetho,  xl   n.  1,  153  n.  2,  286 

n.  1 
Mangabuti,  205 
Manhapuriya,  xxv,  277 
Mankhuit,  3  n.  1 
Maraeotis,  283 
Marea,  283 
Maru,  47  seq. 
Maruitsakro,  127  n.  4 
Maruli,  xxxiii  n.  1 
Maruri,  xxxiii  n.  1 
Masai,  240  n.  1 
Masara,  227  n.  2 
Maskhonuit,  Ivi,  36  n  1  seq.,  39 
Mauiti,  72,  76 
Maut,  174 
Maximilian,  1  n.  4 
Mazaiu,  xlvi. 

Medinet  Habu,  xxiv,  183 
Megiddo,  73 
Meionhuri,  286  n.  4 
Meitum,  xxxviii,  235 
Memphis,      xiii,      xxiv,       xxxvi, 

xxxviii,  xlvii-xlix,  Ixiv,  24  n.  1, 

30  n.  2,  72,  117,  286 
Menander,  291  seq. 
Mendes,  xxxviii,  219,  229,  235 
Menelaus,  xxxii,  95 


INDEX   OF   PROPER   NAJIES 


309 


Menes,  xxiii  n.  5,  xxxii,  Hi,  3  n.  3, 

41  n.  2 
Menkadriya,  30  n.   1 
Menus,  89 

Merenephthis,  118  n.  1 
Meroe,  156  n.  2,  241 
MesioB,  303 
Metelis,  224 

Minephtah,  ix,  xxxiv,  Ixi  n.  5 
Minibphtah,    xxv,    xxxiii,    xxxiv 

seq. 
Minnebonfei,  256 
Minnemei,  227,  234,  241 
Minu,  88  n.  5 
Mnevis,  221 
McEiis,  167  n.  1 

Mohammed  All,  xxxvii,  xxxviii 
Moiris,  xxxiii 
Monatiu,  80  n.  3 
Monthotpu,  Ixviii  n.  3 
Montu,  Ivi,  82,  175,  274 
Montubaal,  237  aeq. 
Montura,  252 
Moses,  1  n.  2,  243 
Mui-hik-Snofru,  72 
Mutemua,  xliv,  Iv 
Myekphoris,  72 
Mykerinus,  xxxii,  xxxiii,  42,  208 

Nabka,  22,  23,  26,  27 

Nabkauriya,  xxv,  40,  51 

Nafhotpu,  176  re.  4 

Nafruriya,  175 

Nagau,  72,  76 

Naharaina,  175 

Naharinna,   xlvii,   Ixvii,  127,  175 

n.  2,  186  et  seq. 
Napata,  156  »i.  2 
Natho,  221  n.  2 
Nearohus,  xxxi 

Nectanebo,  xxix,  263, 286,  287  n.  1 
Nectonabo,  285  aeq. 
Neferarkeriya,  39  n.  1 
Neferhd,  23 
Neith,  222  n.  1 
Nenoferkephtah,    xiii,    xxxiv,    li 

n.  2,  Ixiii,  Ixiv,  122,  196,  277 
Nephthys,  liv  n.  4,  Ivi,  36  seq. 
Nitocris,  181,  268 
Nofrit,  46  n.  2,  74  n.  3 
Nomiu-shaiu,  76,  79  n.  4,  95 
North  Syria,  186 
Noureddin,  xlix 
Nubiti,  174 
Nubuit,  94  n.  1 
Nuhit,  72 
Niiit,  Ixi,  88,  175 
Nyanza  Keroue,  Ixxii 

25 


Oasis  of  Salt,  51 

Ocnos,  149  n.  3 

Okianos,  300 

Olympias,  302 

Ombo,  88  n.  1 

Omm-el-gaab,  Ix  n.  2 

Onhuri,  286  n.  4 

Onu,  34 

Onuris,  286  n.  i 

Ophiodes,  bcxii,  n.  4 

Orontes,  175  n.  2 

Osarsuph,  243 

Osimanduas,  xxvi,  xxxiii,  183,  184 

Osimandyas,  180 

Osiris,  xxiii,  liii,  liv,  Iviii,  9  n.  2, 

11  n.  4,  130  n.  2,  148,  150,  181, 

222  n.  1 
—  lord  of  silence,  49 
Ostanes,  119  n.  1 
Oudja-Hor,  282  n.  4 


Paenekhi,  7  n.  3,  110  w.  1 

Pafifi,  47  n.  5 

Pai,  245  n.  3 

Pakhons,  176 

Pakhuit,  78  n.  1 

Pakrur,  xxvi,  xxxviii,  219,  243 

Palakhitit,  226 

Pa-nabit-nuhit,  72 

Panaho,  72 

Panamhu,  230 

Pandora,  xvi  n.  4 

Panishi,  li,  n.  6  seq. 

Panshatantra,  xxii  n.  3 

Paophi,  Ivi,  Ivii,  11  n.  2 

Para-aui,  13  n  1 

Paris,  95  n.   1 

Pa-Sahuriya,  22 

pat,  72 

Patenefi,  258 

Payni,  175 

Pebrekhaf,  234 

Peleus,  xvii 

Pelusium,  171,  180,  181,  221  n.  2 

Pemu,  xxxviii,  218  sey.,  229,  243, 

258 
Penamanu,  213 
Pentsate,  282  n.  3 
Per-Shou,  287  n.  2 
Pesnufi,  243,  250,  257 
Petekhonsu,  xxxviii,  226,  233 
Petesetis,  282  n.  3 
Petesis,  285  seq. 
Petubastis,  xii,  xxv,  xxxviii,  219, 

243,  244,  257 
Peun,  282 
Pharaoh,  13  n.  1,  95  n.  1 


310 


INDEX   OF   PROPER  NAMES 


Pharmuti,  286 

Pheron,   xxxii,   xxxiii,   xxxvi 

Pherso,  287  n.  2 

Philae,  100  n.  2 

Philea,  300 

Philip  of  Macedonia,  286 

Phineus,  xvii 

Phiops,  269 

Phoenicia,  90  n.  1 

Phra,  8  M.  2 

Phra  Harmakhis,  8,  189,  271 

Phramooni,  225,  227,  234 

Phtahhotpu,  xlvii 

Pi,  245  n.  3 

Pilakhiti,  235 

Pimankhi,  227,  234 

Pinebothes,  258 

Pisapdi,  219,  224,  256,  257 

Pison,  301 

Piupi,  Ixviii  n.  3 

Plain  of  Salt,  xHi,  40,  47 

Pliny,  Ixxii  n.  4 

Plutarch,  liii  n.  1 

Polyaenus,  xxxi 

Potiphar,  xviii 

Pra,  8  n.  2 

Proetus,  xviii 

Proteus,  xxxii,  xxxvi,  95  n.  1 

Pruiti,  95  n.  1 

Psamatiku,  282  n.  4 

Psammenetos,  xxxiii 

Psanunetichus,  xxvi  n.    1,   xxxii, 

xxxiii,  157  n.  2,  284 
Psammis,  xxxiii 
Pseudo-Callisthenos,   xxxiii,    280, 

291 
Psintales,  235 
Psitueris,  236 

Ptah,  liv,  24,  78  n.  1,  117,  141 
Ptahhotpu,  xlvii 
Ptolemy  Philadelphus,  73 
Pu,  245  n.  3 

Puanit,  Ixxii,  88  n.  0,  105  n.  3 
Puteni,  72,  76 
Pzoeis,  235 

Qadima,  73 
Qagabu,  20 
Qamatt,  4  n.  1 
Qamueri,  72,  73,  70 
Qanofir,  74 
Qurnah,  121  n.  4 

Ra,  xiv,  lii,  liv,  Ivii,  Iviii,  8  w.  2, 
22,  35,  63,  105  n.  1 

—  Ap6pi,  270 

—  Harmakhis,  157 
Bahotpu,  XXV,  Ixiv,  270 


Raiya,  8  n.  2 
Ramesseum,  43,  183 
Ramses   II,   xxvii,    xxxiii-v,    xl, 
Ixvii,  7  n.  3,  174,  180,  183,  284 

—  III,  Ixviii,  174,  183 

—  IV,  Ixi  n.  5 

—  V,  Ixi  n.   5 

—  IX,  204,  214  n.  2 

—  XI,  204 
Rdskenen,  270  n.  9 
Ratonu-Latonu,  73 
Bausir,  37 
Rebia,  Ixvii 
Rensi,   47  seq. 
Rhampsinitus,    xxxiii,    xxxv, 

xxxvi,  xlvi,  196  seq. 
Rhamses,  xxxiii 
Riya,  8  n.  2 

Riyamasasu  Maiamanu,  1 74 
Ro  Pegait,  Ix  n.  2 
Ro  Pegarit,  Ix  n.  2 
Ruditdidit,  xliv,  35  seq. 
Ruiti,  95  n.  1 

Saatiu,  74,  76,  79 
Sabaco,  xxxii 
Saft-el-Hineh,  250  n.  4 
Sahotpiaburiya,   75,   77 
Sahuriya,  38 
Said,  the,  219,  247 
Sais,  xxxviii,  222  n.  1,  234 
Saka,  xxiii 

Sakhibu,  xxvii,  35-42 
Sakhmi,  219,  230 
Sakhmit,  54  n.  1,  78  n.  1 
Sakkara,  20  n.  2 
Samaus,  287 
Sanacharibus,  171 
Sanafrui,  xxv,  xxxvii,  xxxviii,  23, 
27,  72,  76,  281 

—  island,  72,  76 

—  lake,  72 

Sankhariya,  Ixviii  n.  3 
Sanmuit,  Ixxi,  100 
Sannozmu,  86  n.  4 
Sanuosrit,  xxv,  xl  n.    1,   74    75 

78  n.  2,  80  n.  4 
Sapdi,  258 

Saqnunriya,  xxviii,  203,  209  seq. 
Satapanriya,   174 
Sati,  45 

Satmi  (c/.  Satni),  145  seq. 
Satni,  xxix,  xlvi,  xlix,   Ixi,   Ixiv 

115,  196,  289 

—  Khamois,  x,   xiii,   xv,   xxxiii- 
XXXV,  117,  218,  277 

Satu,  ix  n.  2 
Sauakin,   105  n.  3 


INDEX   OF   PROPER  NAMES 


311 


Scythians,  181 
Sea  =  Nile,  12,  124 

—  o£  Syria,  205 
Sebennytos,    xxxviii,     219,    229, 

285,  287 
Selpharios,  296  seq. 
Sennacherib,  xxxv,  170 
Senosiris,  XV,  li,  bci,  Ixili,  147  scq., 

157 
Serapeum,  285 
Sergios,  300 
SesSstris,  ix,  xxvi,  xxxii,  xxxiii, 

xl  n.  1,  180-84,  284 
Sesusi-Sesoosis,   xxxiii,   xl,     182, 

184 
Sesusriya,  xxxiii,  xl,  3  n.  1,  180- 

182 
Sethon,  xxxvi,  170,  171 
Set-Typhon,  54,  74,  181 
Setui  Mainephfcah,  3 

—  I,  Ixi  n.  5 

—  II,  3,  ix 
Shai,  157  n.   1 
Slii-Sanafrui,  72 
Shomu,  277  n.  3 
Shopsiskaf,  22,  35  n.  2 
Sh6a,  287  n.  2 

Shu,  Uv,  Iviii,  219,  287  n.  2 
Shubra,  xxxvii 
Siamanu,  xv,  xxv,  xxxvi  n.  3 
Sibu-Gabu,  88  n.  7 
Sicheus,  206  n.   1 
Sidon,  209 
Sihathor,  72 
Simihit,  Ixvii,  94 
Sindbad,  bcix 

Sinuhit,  xxv,  Ixvii,  68,  261  n.  1 
Sit,  113  n.  4 
Siti,  94  n.  3 
Situ,  liii,  liv  n.  4,  Iviii 
Smendes,  203,  205,  213  w.  1 
Sokarosiris,  150 

Sokhit,  liv,  54,  78  n.  1,  79  n.  2, 
113,  238 

—  hamait,  45 

—  sakhmit,  54  n.  1 
Sokhiti,  45 
Solomon,  xxix,  204 
Sonkh,  282  n.  5 
Sopdit,  88  n.  3 
Sop-ho,  liv  n.  5 
Sothis,  88  n.  3 

Sovku,  Ivii  n.  3,  54  n.  1,  88 

Strabo,  xliv 

Suanu,  73,  77,  221 

Sukhotes,  235 

Sunisi,  226 

Supditi,  Supdu,  88  n.  3,  222  n.  2 


Susa,  293  n.  1 

Sutekhu,  xxix,  113  n.  4,  211,  271 

Sutenti,  45 

Suti,  45,  113 

Sychas,  206  n.  I 

Syene,  241 

Syria,  203,  209 

Ta  Amon,  3  «.  1 

Tafnakhti,  235 

Tafnit,  219  m.  1 

Tahait,  219,  229 

Tahuris,  258 

Tait,  86 

Taitu-taui,  91 

Takh6s,  225  seq. 

Tanis,  xxxviii,  205,  219,  229 

Tautamanu,  203,  205,  213 

Tantanuit,  215 

Taonkh,  282  n.  5 

Tasonut,  257 

Tatumaut,  131  n.  1 

Tbubui,  xiii,  xlvi,  xlvii,  xlix,  li, 

135  seq.,  289 
Tell  Abtu,  245  n.  3 

—  Basta,  1 37  «..  I 

—  el-Maskhuta,   73 

—  Mokdam,  225  n.  2 
Telmissus,  xxxi 
Temanthes,  xxvi  n.  1 
Teniponi,  226 
Terraneh,  72 
Thebaid,  125 

Thebes,  xxiv,  xlix,  Ivi  n.  4,  204 
Thessaly,   302 
Thotemhabi,  xxvii,  176 
Thoth,  li,  Uii,  liv,  Iviii,  Ixiv,  20, 

31,  34,  61,  63,  129,  150 
Thotnakhmti,  xxv.tc.  4,  47 
Thracians,  Thrace,  181,  292 
Thutiyi,  xxviii,  xxx,  xxxi,  Ixvii, 

109  seq. 
Thutmosis  I,  xxx,  xxxvi 

—  II,  xxvi 

—  Ill,   xxvi,  xxx,  xxxv,  73,   157 
n.  2 

—  IV,   Iv 

Ti,  9  n.  2,  266 
Tigris,  301 
Tihonu,  75 
Timihu,  72,  75  n.  3 
Tiome,  236 
Tiuaqen,  270  n.  9 
Tiuau,  270  re.  9 
Tnahsit,  li  n.  6,  158  n.  3 
Tonu,  Ixvii,  70,  73 
Topazon,  Ixxii 
Torzeruf,  4  re,  1 


312 


INDEX   OF    PROPER   NAJMES 


Tremeneazour,  xxii 
Triphit,  158  n.  i 
Tririt,  158  n.  2 
Trismegistus,  161  n.  2 
Tumu,  88  n.  2 
Tunipu,  XXX 
Turah,  72 

Tybi,  liii,  liv,  35,  144 
Typhon,  9  n.  2,  240  n.  4 
Tyre,  Ixv,  203,  200,  207 

Uarurit,  88 

Uasimariya,    xxv,    xxxiii-v,    180 

seq. 
—  Satapanriya,   174,   178,   179 
Uazhor,  226 
Uaz-uerit,  89  n.  2 
Ubastifc,  78 

Ubau-anir,  xlvii,  li  n.  3,  22,  24 
Uchoreus,  xxxiii 
Uiluhni,   234  seq. 
Utti,  46  n.  6 
Ulysses,  Ixx 
Unamunu,  xii,  xxvii  n.  3,  Ixviii, 

202  seq. 
Uohsunefgamul,  235 
Uotit,  225  n.  2 
Upper  Tonu,  73,  77 
Usimanthor,  170 


Usimares,  xxix,  116 
Usirkaf,  22,  37  m.  4 
Usirraf,  37  n.  4 
Ussim,  219  re.  2 
Uzakau,  226 

Wady  Natrun,  46  n.  1 ,  n.  5 
—  Tuinilat,  xxxviii,   74 
Waradi,  206 
VVarakatilu,  209  n.  2 
Wawait,  Ixxi,  100  n.  2 
Wu  Pegait,  Pegarit,  Ix,  n.  2 

Zagazig,  137  n.  1 

Zaggerit,  40 

Zakkala,  203,  205,  207,  215 

Zalchel,  231 

Zaru,  74 

Zasiri,  22,  23 

Zauiphre,  219,  222,  227,  232 

Zauiranamhai,  235 

Zazamankhu,  1,  27 

Zet,  170 

Ziharpto,  116,   144 

Zikarbal,  204,  206  seq.,  213  n.  1 

Zingis,  Ixxi 

Zinufi,  227 

Zobeide,  xlix 

Zopyre,  100 


INDEX   OF   GENERAL   SUBJECTS 


Abstinence,  135  n,  2,  141  n.  1 
Acacia,  9 

Agathodemon,  167 
Agricultural  life,  4  n.  3 
Almehs,  Ivi,  284 
Amulets,  28,  117 
Angarebs,  15  n.  1,  32 
Animals  speaking  :  cows,  8 

serpent,  102  8eg.,  2(iS 

Asses,  47,  60,  190 

Ba  (soul),  175  n.  3 
Baking,  xlii,  46  n.  4,  91 
Bark  of  Amon,  205,  213  n.  1 

—  of  Khonsu,  1 74 

—  of  wax,  126 

Beards  of  soldiers,  xlv,  xlvi,   199 

rt.   1 
Beds,  32,  38,  140 
Bin  for  corn,  41 
Birth  customs,  37 

—  scenes,  xliv 
Book  of  magic,  25,  28 

—  of  the  Dead,  Ixii 

—  of  Thoth,  xiv,  U,  Ixiii,  31,  34, 
117,  123  seq.,  132  n.  2,  134  n.  3 

—  caskets,  25,  31,  34 

—  vases,  156  n..  1 
Bouza,  40 
Brandy,  281  seq. 
Brazier,  118,  135,  141 
Brewing,  40,  46,  91 

Bride  of  the  Nile,  xvi,  12  n.  4 
Burghers,  49 
Burial  customs,  86,  132 
Burnt  offering,  101,   142 
Byssus,  230,  250 

Calasiris,  232,  236,  257 
Canals,  180,  182 

—  of  two  fishes,  35 

—  of  two  truths,  72 
Cange,  xxxvii,  49,  126,  130 
Cartulary,  x 


Casket,  25,  31,  34 

Castanets,  93 

Cat,  xxix 

Cedars,  204  seq. 

Ceremonial  prostrations,  87,  261 

Challenges   to   kings,    xxix,   xxx, 

146 
Chariot,  188 
Chasm  in  water,  127 
Chastity,  135  n.  2,  141  n.  1 
Cheetah,  7  m.  3,  1 10  oft. 
City  of  Horus,  160  n.  1 
Coffer,  124 
Coiffure,  5  w.  3 
Colocasia,  147 

Composition  of  stories,  xii  seq. 
Concubine,  xlii 
Contract  of  maintenance,  138 
Convulsions,  208 
Coptic  fragments,  263 
Corn  payment,  39 
Country  of  oxen,  47 

—  of  papyrus,  243-4 
Covering  of  the  face,  100 
Cradle  rockers,  19  n.  3 
Crocodile,  41,  56,  186,  190 

—  god,  54  n.  1 

—  wax,  25  seq. 
Crow,  119 
Crypts,  xlv 
Curses,  85  n.  2 

Days  lucky  or  unlucky,  liii 
Death,  euphemism  for,  32  n.  3 
DeHneation   of  Pharaoh,   xxxvi- 

vii 
Demotic,  x 

—  papyri,  115,  130  n.  2,  280 
Destiny,  Iv,  195 
Diadems,  magic,  39 

Dice,  196 

Dog,  186,  190,  241 

—  deity,  xxiii 

—  playing  piece,  133  n.  3 


313 


314 


INDEX   OF   GENERAL   SUBJECTS 


Doorpost,  149  «.  4 
Double  (orka),  Ixxii,  32,  96,  112, 
120,  143  n.  3 

—  house  of  life,    117,    118,    122, 
142,  148 

scribe  of,  122  n.  1,  176  n.  2 

—  of  gods,  xxvii 
Draughts,  133  n.  2 
Dreams,  xlix,  146, ""lei,  171 
Drinking  magic,  129  n.  1 
Duration  of  life,  30 

Dust  on  the  head,  87 

Eaters  of  gum,  154,  223 
Eating  magic,  165 
Ebony,  25,  28,  31 
Egyptian  astuteness,  201 

—  civilisation,  xliii 

—  doors,  8  M.  1 

—  house,  137 

—  expressions,  67 

—  language,  203 

—  vessels,  211 
Electrum,  25,  28,  92  n.  3,  97 
Embalmdng,  Ixii 

Ennead  of  gods,  11 
Entire  land,  4  n.  1,  23 
Escutcheons,  224 
Euphemisms,  20,  35,  75,  77 
Evil  colour,  224,  n  1 
Exodus,  286  n.  1 
Exposure  of  corpse,  198 
External  soul,  xvi 

Falcon,  75 
Falling  star,  104 
Fellah,  xlii,  46 
Ferry  boat,  64 
Fillets,  28  n.   1 
Fine  linen,   139 
Fire  making,  101,  138 
Fish  amulet,  28 
Fishing,  58,  59 
Flying,  75,  187 
Forged  inscription,  173 
Friends,  74,  86 

—  of  Seraglio,  75 
Funeral  ceremonies,  86,  132 
Funerary  outfit,  96,  97,  124 

Game  of  chess,  133 

Gap  opening  in  ground,  119 

Garments  as  bribe,  6,  24 

Genii,  Ix,  140  m.  2 

Ghost,   176 

Giant,  190,  191 

Gold,  28,  32 

Good  dweUing,  128,  130 


Good  god,  xxxvii 
Goose,  34 

Gospel  of  S.  Luke,  xv 
Great  pyramid,  xliv,  31  n.  2 

—  royal  spouse,  175  «.  5 
Guepard,  7  n.  3 

Hades,  196 

Harpa,  240  n.  1,  249 

Head  replaced,  31,  33 

Heart  on  a  flower,  xvi,   10,   12 

Herdsmen,  xli,  244  seq. 

Hermetic  books,  119  n.  1 

Hieratic,  x,  n.  3 

Hierodule,  137 

Hippopotamus,  41  n.  2 

Hutches  for  grain,  5  n.  4 

Hypocephalus,  Ixii  n.  2 

Imprecations,  85 

Impure,  the,  53  n.  2,  243,  270  n.  8 

Incubation,  xlix  seq.,  146,  1 62  n.  1 , 

171  n.  1 
Infants,  84  n.  4,  87,  92  seq. 
Inheritance,  xlii 
Intersigns,  xxii  n.  4,  xlix,  1,  165, 

191  n.  2 
Invocations,  86 
Island  of  the  blessed,  Ixxii 

—  of  the  dead,  Ixxii 

—  of  the  double,  Ixxii,  103 

Jars  containing  men,  xxxi,  113 
Journey  of  Sun,  Ix,  65  n.  2 
Judgment  of  soul,  Ixi,  150 
Jurisprudence,  138  k.  3 

Ka  or  double,  103  n.  1,  120  ».  1 

Khu  or  luminous,  Ixiv 

Iting  as  god,  75 

Kissing,  104  n.  4,  261  n.  2 

Kolobi,  283 

Kurbash,  57,   158 

Lady  of  all,  83 

—  pestilence,  53,  54  n,  1 
Lake,  24,  25,  28,  96  n.  4 

—  divided  by  magic,  29 

—  of  the  Gazelle,  225  seq. 
Land  tax,  182 

—  tenure,  63  n.  3 
Lapis  lazuli,  138 
hair,  38,  39 

Last  Egyptian  scholar,  x 

Leather,  41 

Lector,  1,  21  n.  2,  24,  221,  246 

—  chief,  28 

L.h.s.  explained,  13  n.  1,  27 
Libation,  126,  142 


INDSX   OF   GENERAL  SUBJECTS 


315 


Light  due  to  magic,  119,  134,  142 

Limit  of  life,  lix. 

Lion,  183 

Lord  of  Silence,  49 

Luminous,  Ixiv 

Magic,  books  of,  x,  25,  28,  117 

—  charms,  Ivii  seq.,  122  n.  2 

—  formulae,  lii,  Iviii-lx,  117 
- —  island,  101  aeq. 

—  rites,  135  n.  I 

Magicians,  chastity  of,  135  n.   2, 

141  n.  1 
Malachite,  28,  138  n.  1,  175 
Man  of  the  roU,   1,  23,  24  n.  2, 

84  n.  2,  87  w.  1 
Maple  wood,  28 
Marks  on  Apis,  1 5  n.  3 
Marriage  of   brother   and   sister, 

120 
Masterless  man,  xliii 
Masters  of  the  night,  159 
Mediaeval  maps,  Ixxi 
Mines  of  Pharaoh,  Ixxi 
Miracles,  1 

Mistresses  of  the  night,  1 59 
Morals,  xlvi 
Mouth  of  the  tree,  Ix 
Movable  stone,  xliv-v,  34,  197 
Mummification,  Ixi 
Musicians,  36 

Napeca  wood,  31  n.  4 

Naru,  9  n.  2 

Nets  as  clothing,  28 

Nine  times  great,  161  «..  2 

Nocturnal  course  of  sun,  Ix  n.  3 

Obsession  by  magic  writings,  135 

Oiierings,  126 

One  (periphrasis),  14  n..  2,  129  n.  2 

Ostraca,  xii. 

Ostracon,  British  Museum,  70 

—  Cairo,  70 

—  Paris,  275 

Papjnras  Anastasi,  No.  4,  Iviii,  Ixv, 
Ixvii,  3,  186,  285 

—  Berlin,  No.  1,  68 

No.  2,  xlii,  43 

No.  3,  265 

No.  4,  43 

—  Boulaq,  xi,  1 1 5 

—  British  Museum,  DCIV,  144 

—  Butler,  44 

—  Demotic,  115 

—  D'Orbiney,  ix,  xi,  xix 

—  Ebers,  22 


Papyrus  Fayum,  1 67  n.  1  '.  "^ 

—  Gol^nischeff,  23  n.  1,  68' 

—  Harris,  xi,  lix  n,  2,  108,  185, 
267 

—  Hieratic,  x  n.  3,  98,  156,  202 

—  Hood,  74  n.  1 

—  Leyden,  lix,  n.  3 

—  Ramesseum,  43,  68,  183 

—  Sallier,  xii  n.  8,  liii  n.  2,  liv. 
n.  2,  Ivii  n.  2,  Iviii  n.  2,  20  n.  2, 
153  n.  2,  269 

—  Turin,  xi,  22 

—  Westcar,  xxv,  xxvii  n.  1,  21, 
22,  42 

Patron,  xliii 

People  of  the  circle,  94 

—  of  the  corner,  94  n.  4,  132 
Perfume  of  acclamation,  105 
Persea  tree,  xvii,  xxiii,  18 
Pharmacy  of  the  soul,  183 
Pictorial  illustrations  xhii 
Pilots,  252  n.  1 

Playing  board,  133 

—  pieces,  133 
Polygamy,  3  n.  1 
Pool  of  Justice,  50 
Position  of  Pharaoh,  xxxviii 
Possession  and  exorcism,  1 73 
Prayers  for  hours  of  the  night,  x 
Presages,  liii  seq. 

Prescience,  103 

Priests  of  the  double,  96 

Primogeniture,  xlii 

Princess  of  Bakhtan,  xii,  175  aeq. 

Prophetic  frenzy,  208 

Prostration,  105 

Punishment  by  fire,  26 

Punning  names,  Ivi,  37 

Pyramid,  Dahchur,  xliv  n.  6 

—  Great,  xliv,  31  n.  2 

—  of  Senuhit,  70 

Bam  of  Mendes,  1 7  «..  1 
Rebirth,  xv,  Ixiii 
Reoapitation,  31,  33 
Recluses  of  the  Serapeum,  285 
Regent  of  the  earth,  83 
Rise  of  romance,  xiii 
Roads  of  Horus,  74 
Romances,  x 
Roof  of  house,  148,  187 

Sacred  book  of  the  Mormons,  Ixii 
Sallier  calendar,  liii  n.  3 
Salutation,  104  n.  4 
Sceptre,  93 
Schene,  125 
Sea  faring,  Ixviii 


316 


INDEX   OF   GENERAL   SUBJECTS 


Seal,  41 

Season,  harvest,  213 

Self-mutilation,  xxiii 

Senior  member  of  the  Hall,  205 

Serpent,   Ixi,   Ixix,   102  seq.,   125, 

127,  186,  191 
Seven  halls  of  Hades,  149 
Share,  xKi 
Silo,  39 
Silver  gilt,  92 
Sinking  into  earth,  134 
Sistrum,  93 
Slaves,  66,  107 
Sliding   stone,  xliv,  xlv  n.    1.  n. 

4,  34.  197 
Solar  disc,  75 
Sorcery,  1 

Souls  of  gods  and  kings,  105 
Sparrowhawk,   179 
Sphinx,  8  n.  2,  92 
Spinning,  xlii 
Staff,  110 

Stela,  xliii  K.  1,  72,  122,  181 
Step-brother,  41 

Tabonu,  124,  210 
Talisman,  252 
Talking  animals,  8 

—  mummies,  Ixiii 

—  serpent,   102  seq.,  208 
Tarichutes,  221 
Temple  sculptures,  183 
Terrace,  187 


Theocracy,   170 

The  impure,  53  n.  2,  243,  270  n.  8 

The  subjugated  land,  90 

The  sycamore,  72 

The  vanquished,  xxx,  109  n.  5 

The  very  green,  89 

Throne,  xU 

Tilt  yard,  233 

To  praise  Ra,  130 

Tourney,  xl 

Transformation,  140,  143 

Travel,  Ixv 

Treasure  chamber,  197 

Triplets,  xiv,  22,  35 

True  of  voice,  23,  84  n.  2 

Turquoise,  138 

Umbrella,  213 

Underworld,  Ix 

Uraeus,  88  n.  4,  246  n.  4 

Vale  of  the  acacia,  xvi,  9 
Vanquished,  xxx,  109  n.  5 
Vassal,  xliii,  24 
Vendetta,  xl 

Voyage  of  the  dead,  Ixxiii 
Vulture  as  guide,  119 

War  dogs,  241  n.  3 
Wax,  boat,  126 

—  crocodile,  25 

—  litter,  159 
Weaving,  xlii 
Wine  skins,  198 


Printed  iy  Hazell,  Watson  d:   Yiney,  Ld.^  London  and  Aylesbury,  England, 


