The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/cletails/cu31924083983944 


.SSHNELL  UNIVERSITY 


LIBRARY 


3    1924   083   983 'g'S 


In  Compliance  with  current 

copyright  law,  Cornell  University 

Library  produced  this 

replacement  volume  on  paper 

that  meets  the  ANSI  Standard 

Z39.48-1992  to  replace  the 

irreparably  deteriorated  original. 

1998 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE  ENDOWMENT  FUND 

THE  GIFT  OF 

MtnvQ  M.  Sage 
1891 


^.z./SM4^. ■■::.: :. .A/.4Lfiq..af. 


W4. 


Assyrian  and 
Babylonian  Literature 


The  World's  Great  Books 


Committee  of  Selection 


Thomas  B.  Reed 

Speaker  of  the  House 
of  Representatives 

Edward  Everett  Hale 

Author  of  The  Man 
Without  a  Country 


William  R.  Harper 

President  of  the 
University  of  Chicago 

Ainsworth  R.  Spoffbrd 

Of  the  Congressional 
Library 


Rossiter  Johnson 

Editor  of  Little  Classics  and  Editor-in-Chief  of  this  Series 


Aldine  Edition 


SIR  HENRY  RAWLINSON. 

Photogravure  from  an  engraving. 


Assyrian  and  Babylonian 
Literature 

Selected  Translations 


With  a  Critical  Introduction  by 
Robert  Francis  Harper 


Illustrated 


New  York 

D.  Appleton  and  Company 

1901 

r 


Copyright,  1900,       \ 
By  D.  APPLETON  AND  COMPANY. 


INTRODUCTION 


7^  ISCOVERY  of  the  Cuneiform  Inscriptions. — The  his- 
i  y  tory  of  the  ancients  has  a  peculiar  charm  for  us, 
which  gradually  increases  as  from  year  to  year  the 
darkness  gives  way  to  light  through  the  excavation  and 
decipherment  of  the  monuments.  Until  a  very  recent 
date,  scholars  were  accustomed  to  turn  to  Egypt  for  the 
beginning  of  all  things.  Egyptian  literature  was  the  old- 
est, Egyptian  civilization  the  earliest,  and  from  the  Egyp- 
tian hieroglyphs,  through  the  Phoenician,  our  alphabets 
were  derived.  But  the  cuneiform  inscriptions  bring  an- 
other story,  and  the  seat  of  the  earliest  known  and  most 
influential  civilization  must  now  be  changed  from  the  val- 
ley of  the  Nile  to  the  country  between  the  Tigris  and  the 
Euphrates,  southern  Mesopotamia,  or,  in  other  words. 
Babylonia.  These  inscriptions  have  opened  up  to  us  a 
history  far  more  interesting  and  valuable  than  that  written 
on  the  papyri  and  monuments  of  Egypt.  It  deals  with  a 
nation  that  played  an  important  part  in  Old  Testament  his- 
tory and  exerted  a  powerful  influence  over  the  chosen 
people — with  a  nation  whose  literature  begins  earlier  than 
that  of  the  Hebrews  and  runs  parallel  with  it  until  the  latter 
are  carried  into  captivity  by  the  former.  Although  interest- 
ing from  a  general  historical  standpoint,  this  literature  is 
the  more  valuable  because  of  its  striking  similarities  to  the 
Hebrew,  and  because  of  the  help  it  brings  to  an  understand- 
ing of  the  biblical  text. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  present   century  little  was 


iv  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

known  of  the  ancient  capitals  of  the  Assyro-Babylonians 
aside  from  the  meagre  and  imperfect  accounts  given  by  the 
Jewish  and  Greek  historians.  One  would  have  searched  his 
maps  in  vain  for  the  exact  location  of  Nineveh,  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Assyrian  armies  which  plundered  the  Israel- 
ites for  so  many  years  and  finally  besieged,  captured,  and 
transported  the  inhabitants  of  Samaria.  In  the  case  of 
Babylon  it  was  no  better — a  city  one  of  whose  kings  car- 
ried into  captivity  the  remnant  left  by  his  northern  kins- 
men, the  Assyrians. 

Passing  the  travels  and  writings  of  Benjamin  of  Tudela 
(about  1 1 60);  Rabbi  Pethachiah,  of  Ratisbon,  a  short  time 
after  the  death  of  Benjamin;  Conti  (1444);  Ortelius,  of  Ant- 
werp, who  published  his  "  Geographical  Treasury  "  in  1596, 
in  which  was  incorporated  all  that  was  known  at  that  time 
of  Oriental  geography;  Hakluyt's  collections  of  travels  and 
voyages  (1599)  containing  an  account,  translated  from  the 
Italian,  lof-the  travels  of  Cesare  de  P^efici,  who  was-ohc- 
first  to  give  us  a  description  of  Akerkuf,  identified  in  re-^ 
cent  years  as  the  Dur-Kurigalzu  of  the  inscriptions;  Rau- 
wolf,  of  Augsburg,  who  describes  Akerkuf  as  the  Tower  of 
Babel  (1573);  about  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  cen- 
tury, John  Cartwright,  the  first  European  to  attempt  a  sur- 
vey of  the  ruins  of  Nineveh;  Don  Garcia  de  Silva  y  FigTi- 
eroa,  ambassador  of  Philip  III  of  Spain  to  the  court  of 
Persia;  Pietro  della  Valle  (1621),  who  still  regarded  Bagh- 
dad as  the  site  of  Babylon,  and  who  identified  the  great 
mound  near  Hilleh  (  ^  Babil)  as  the  site  of  the  Tower  of 
the  Confusion  of  Tongues;  Pedro  Teixeita,  a  Portuguese; 
Sir  Thomas  Herbert  (1626);  Tavemier,  who  visited  Mosul 
in  1644;  Pater  Vincenzo  Maria  di  Santa  Caterina  da  Siena 
(1657),  who  was  the  first,  since  Benjamin  of  Tudela,  to 
identify  the  site  of  Babylon  with  Hilleh  as  over  against 
Baghdad;  Flower  (1667);  Chardin,  who  in  1674  copied  the 
so-called  Window  inscription,  the  shortest  of  the  trilingual 
Achaemenian  inscriptions;  Engelbert  Kampfer  (about 
1694),  who  copied  the  so-called  H^  Persepolis  inscription; 
Cornelis  de  Bruin  (1701);  Otter,  in  1734,^  who  was  the 


INTRODUCTION  V 

first  to  notice  the  Behistun  inscriptions  and  reliefs,  after- 
ward copied  by  Rawlinson  and  used  in  the  decipherment 
of  the  inscriptions;  Edward  Ives  (1758);  Pater  Emmanuel 
de  Saint  Albert,  whose  report  on  the  "  Ruins  of  Babylon  " 
to  the  Duke  of  Orleans  formed  the  basis  of  D'Anville's 
"  Memoir  "  on  the  position  of  Babylon,  read  before  the 
French  Academy  of  Inscriptions  in  1755;  Carsten  Niebuhr, 
who  in  1765  copied  several  Achaemenian  inscriptions,  and 
from  whose  plates  Grotefend  afterward  deciphered  the 
names  of  Darius  and  Xerxes,  thus  opening  the  way  for  all 
future  work  in  this  line;  Count  Caylus,  who  in  1762  pub- 
lished the  celebrated  "  Vase  of  Xerxes,"  with  the  quadrilin- 
gual  inscription — in  Egyptian  (Hieroglyphs),  Old  Persian, 
Susian,  and  Babylonian — "  Xerxes,  the  Great  King  ";  and 
others,  we  come  to  the  French  scholar,  Beauchamp,  who, 
between  1790  and  1795,  shipped  to  Paris  some  specimen 
bricks  covered  with  Babylonian  characters.  The  excite- 
ment occasioned  by  these  short  inscriptions,  and  especially 
by  the  report  that  the  ruins  of  Babylon  had  been  discov- 
ered in  the  vicinity  of  Hilleh,  caused  the  East  India  Com- 
pany to  issue  orders  to  their  agent  in  Bassorah  to  obtain 
as  quickly  as  possible  a  collection  of  these  Babylonian  in- 
scriptions and  to  send  them  by  Bombay  to  England.  Be- 
tween 1 80 1  and  18 10  several  different  collections  were 
shipped,  among  which  was  the  famous  Nebuchadrezzar 
stone  in  ten  columns,  called  the  East  India  House  Inscrip- 
tion, and  now  in  the  India  Office  in  London. 

As  yet  no  systematic  work  had  been  done  in  excavating 
these  old  Assyrian  and  Babylonian  ruins.  Claudius  James 
Rich,  an  Englishman,  the  East  India  Company's  repre- 
sentative in  Baghdad,  was  the  first  to  begin  such  excava- 
tions. Rich  commenced  his  work  in  181 1,  and  in  1812 
published  his  "  Memoir  on  the  Ruins  of  Babylon,"  and  in 
1818  his  "  Second  Memoir  on  Babylon,"  containing  "  an 
inquiry  into  the  correspondence  between  the  ancient  de- 
scription and  the  remains  still  visible  on  the  site."  In  this 
"  Second  Memoir  "  are  found  copies  of  several  more  or  less 
important  Babylonian  inscriptions,  among  which  may  be 


vi  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

mentioned  as  the  most  important  the  so-called  Borsippa  in- 
scription of  Nebuchadrezzar.  Rich  continued  his  work 
until  1820,  sending  at  intervals  to  England  such  remains  of 
inscriptions,  bricks,  sculptures,  etc.,  as  were  excavated. 
In  1820  he  made  a  journey  for  his  health  into  the  Kurdish 
mountains,  and  on  his  return  he  spent  a  few  days  in  Mosul 
on  the  Tigris.  From  Mosul  he  saw  on  the  other  (or  left) 
side  of  the  river  mounds  similar  to  those  at  Hilleh,  and  he 
was  informed  by  Arabs  that  a  large  stone  had  been  found  in 
these  mounds,  covered  with  engravings  of  men  and  ani- 
mals. This  find  had  been  reported  to  the  governor  of 
Mosul,  and  he  had  ordered  it  to  be  broken  into  a  thousand 
pieces,  because,  as  he  said,  it  contained  engravings  of  the 
ancient  gods;  and  with  the  Turks  idolatry  is  the  most 
heinous  sin.  Rich  came  to  the  conclusion  that  these 
mounds  opposite  Mosul  represented  the  capital  of  the  As- 
syrian Empire.  On  his  journey  down  the  Tigris  to  Bagh- 
dad he  landed  at  the  mouth  of  the  Upper  Zab  and  ex- 
amined the  mounds  there,  called  by  the  Arabs  Nimrud. 
He  collected  a  number  of  inscribed  bricks,  which  are  now 
to  be  found  in  the  British  Museum,  but  was  not  able  to  pur- 
sue his  investigations  further. 

After  a  lapse  of  twenty  years,  in  the  spring  of  1840, 
Austen  Henry  Layard  visited  the  ruins  of  Nineveh  as  iden- 
tified by  Rich.  In  1842  Layard  returned  to  Mosul  without 
having  made  any  excavations.  Here  he  met  P.  C.  Botta, 
the  French  consul,  who  had  been  interested  in  this  work 
by  the  Orientalist  Mohl,  at  that  time  professor  in  Paris. 
Layard,  being  without  the  means  necessary  to  carry  on  the 
excavations,  strongly  urged  Botta  to  direct  his  attention  to 
the  work.  Botta  himself  was  without  means  at  this  time, 
but  in  1843  he  was  enabled  to  begin,  and  he  continued  until 
1845,  during  which  time  he  laid  bare  the  city  walls  of 
Khorsabad  and  discovered  many  valuable  inscriptions.  In 
i849-'5i  he  published  his  "Monuments  of  Nineveh,"  by 
order  of  the  French  Government,  in  which  are  to  be  found 
220  pages  of  inscriptions. 

In  the  spring  of  1845  Sir  Stratford  Canning,  at  that 


INTRODUCTION  vii 

time  the  English  ambassador  at  Constantinople,  offered 
Layard  sufficient  money  to  undertake  excavations.  To- 
ward the  end  of  the  year  Layard  began  work  on  the  ruins 
of  Nimrud,  five  hours  south  of  Mosul  (an  hour  in  the  East 
is  from  two  and  three  quarters  to  three  English  miles). 
From  the  beginning  he  was  successful.  The  sum  allotted 
by  Canning  gave  out  in  June,  1847,  ^"^  Layard  was  again 
compelled  to  return  to  England.  During  the  two  years 
he  had,  however,  laid  bare  three  large  Assyrian  palaces — 
viz.,  the  Northwest  palace,  that  of  Ashurnaqirpal  (884-858 
B.  c.) ;  the  Central  palace,  probably  built  by  the  follower  of 
Ashurnagirpal,  Shalmaneser  II  (858-823  b.  c),  in  which 
was  found  the  celebrated  Black  Obelisk  of  Shalmaneser 
(now  in  the  British  Museum);  and  finally  that  of  Esar- 
haddon  (680-669  b.  c).  The  richest  returns  came  from 
the  Northwest  palace,  and  the  inscriptions  found  were  in 
a  much  better  state  of  preservation  than  those  excavated  by 
Botta  in  Sargon's  palace  at  Khorsabad. 

Sir  Stratford  Canning  generously  presented  the  entire 
results  of  Layard's  expedition  to  the  British  Museum,  to 
which  place  they  were  shipped  by  the  explorer  himself. 
Layard  shortly  afterward  published  an  account  pf  his  work 
in  "  Nineveh  and  its  Remains."  This  book  created  a  great 
sensation  in  England,  and  as  a  result  the  English  Gov- 
ernment became  interested  in  the  excavations.  In  1849 
Layard  was  given  leave  of  absence  from  his  diplomatic  post 
in  Constantinople  and  sent  back  to  Assyria,  and  Hormuzd 
Rassam,  English  consul  at  Mosul,  but  a  native  Arab,  was 
ordered  to  join  him.  During  the  first  expedition,  Layard 
had  confined  his  operations  to  Nimrud,  but  in  this,  his 
second,  he  began  work  at  Kbuyunjik,  the  site  of  Nineveh. 
Botta  had  already  conducted  excavations  at  this  mound, 
but  with  comparatively  little  success,  since  his  methods 
were  wholly  unscientific.  Instead  of  running  trenches  here 
and  there  to  find  walls  and  then  following  these  walls,  Botta 
sank  perpendicular  shafts  to  no  purpose.  In  his  first  ex- 
pedition Layard  had  found  the  Southwest  palace  of  Sen- 
nacherib (705-681  b.  c),  as  restored  by  his  grandson  Ashur- 


viii        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

banipal,  but  he  had  not  been  able  to  carry  his  work  to  com- 
pletion. In  his  second  trip  (i849-'5i)  this  building  was 
fully  brought  to  light.  This  palace  was  the  largest  yet 
found,  containing  seventy-three  rooms.  Excavations  were 
also  made  in  Nebbi  Yunus — i.  e.,  the  grave  of  the  prophet 
Jonah — where  Layard  says  that  he  found  Esarhaddon 
inscriptions,  and  in  Qal'at  Sherkat  (the  old  Asshur). 
In  Nebbi- Yunus,  palaces  of  Ramman-Nirari  (811-782 
B.  c),  Sennacherib,  and  Esarhaddon  were  found,  while  in 
Qal'at  Sherkat,  Layard,  or  rather  Rassam,  discovered  the 
foundations  of  a  palace  of  Tiglath-pileser  I,  and  here 
it  was  that  the  large  cylinder  of  eight  hundred  lines 
belonging  to  Tiglath-pileser  I  (1120  B.C.)  was  found. 
During  this  expedition  Layard  also  visited  several  sites 
in  Babylonia,  but  he  was  able  to  accomplish  little  or 
nothing. 

Immediately  following  and  closely  connected  with 
Layard's  second  expedition  was  that  of  Hormuzd  Rassam 
(i852-'54),  during  which  the  North  palace  of  Ashurbanipal 
was  discovered  and  laid  bare.  In  this  was  found  the  cele- 
brated "  Library  of  Ashurbanipal,"  containing  thousands  of 
clay  tablets  inscribed  on  both  sides. 

About  the  same  time  with  Rassam  (i852-'S4,  or  rather 
i85i-'S5),  Victor  Place,  the  French  consul  at  Mosul,  took 
up  the  work  of  excavating  at  Khorsabad  which  had  been 
begun  by  Botta.  While  this  work  was  going  on  in  Assjrria, 
Loftus  from  1849,  Fresnel  and  Oppert  in  1852,  and  Tay- 
lor from  1852,  began  excavations  in  Babylonia.  In 
i853-'54  Loftus  and  Taylor  visited  and  afterward  described 
the  ruins  of  Warka,  Senkereh,  Ur,  etc.  The  French  ex- 
pedition was  badly  managed,  but  it  must  be  acknowledged 
that  almost  all  that  we  know  of  the  topography  of  Baby- 
lonia dates  from  this  expedition.  The  boat  containing  the 
results  of  their  excavations  was  wrecked  in  the  Tigfris  on 
May  23,  185s,  and  hence  the  inscriptions  never  reached 
Paris,  to  which  place  they  were  being  shipped  when  lost. 
Accounts  of  both  of  these  expeditions  have  been  given  by 
Oppert  and  Loftus  respectively.    With  these  expeditions 


INTRODUCTION  ix 

what  may  be  called  the  first  period  of  Assyro-Babylonian 
excavations  comes  to  an  end. 

Before  going  to  the  second  period,  mention  must  be 
made  of  the  discovery  and  copying  of  the  famous  Behistun 
inscription  by  Colonel  Rawlinson  (later  Sir  Henry).  This 
inscription  consists  of  about  four  hundred  lines,  and  it  was 
carved,  by  order  of  Darius  Hystaspes,  on  a  steep  mountain 
— about  seventeen  hundred  feet  high — called  Behistun 
(near  Kermanschah).  The  English  officer  not  only  copied 
this  inscription  for  the  first  time  (between  the  years  1835 
and  1837),  but  he  also  made  the  first  translation,  having 
worked  at  intervals  on  this  inscription  from  1835  to  1846, 
when  he  brought  his  manuscript,  containing  the  copy  of 
the  Babylonian  text,  to  London.  The  important  part 
played  by  this  inscription  and  its  discoverer  in  the  history 
of  the  decipherment  of  the  inscriptions  will  be  noted  later. 
After  the  close  of  the  first  period,  no  excavations  were 
made  for  almost  twenty  years.  During  this  time  Layard 
published  his  "  Inscriptions  in  the  Cuneiform  Character 
from  Assyrian  Monuments,"  and  the  first  three  volumes  of 
the  "  Cuneiform  Inscriptions  of  Western  Asia "  had  ap- 
peared, edited  by  Rawlinson  with  the  help  of  Edwin  Norris 
and  George  Smith. 

In  1872  George  Smith  had  the  good  fortune  to  dis- 
cover some  tablets  containing  the  Chaldean  account  of  the 
Deluge.  The  results  of  his  find  were  laid  before  the 
Society  of  Biblical  Archaeology  on  December  3,  1872.  "  In 
consequence  of  the  wide  interest  taken  at  the  time  in  these 
discoveries,  the  proprietors  of  the  'Daily  Telegraph' 
newspaper  came  forward  and  ofifered  to  advance  a  sum  of 
one  thousand  guineas  for  fresh  researches  at  Nineveh  in 
order  to  recover  more  of  these  interesting  inscriptions,  the 
terms  of  agreement  being  that  I  should  conduct  the  ex- 
pedition, and  should  supply  the  '  Telegraph  '  from  time  to 
time  with  accounts  of  my  journeys  and  discoveries  in  the 
East  in  return."  In  January,  1873,  with  George  Smith, 
the  second  period  of  excavations  began.  Between  1873 
and  1876  Smith  made  three  expeditions,  from  the  last  of 


X  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

which  he  never  returned,  dying  on  his  homeward  journey 
at  Aleppo,  August  19,  1876,  of  a  fever  contracted  in  Bagh- 
dad. Smith's  chief  work  was  to  make  a  more  thorough 
examination  of  the  palaces  in  Kouyunjik,  and  especially  of 
the  Northwest  palace  discovered  by  Rassam.  Rassam  con- 
tinued the  work  begun  by  Smith,  and  between  1877  and 
1 88 1  made  three  expeditions.  The  chief  result  of  the  first 
was  the  uncovering  of  another  palace  of  Ashumagirpal  at 
Nimrud,  and  the  finding  of  the  celebrated  Bronze  Gates 
of  Shalmaneser  II,  In  the  same  year  he  visited  the  palaces 
of  Sennacherib  and  Ashurbanipal  at  Kouyunjik,  and 
brought  back  with  him  about  fourteen  hundred  tablets  and 
the  large  ten-column  cylinder  of  Ashurbanipal,  known  as 
the  Rassam  (R")  cylinder.  In  his  second  expedition  he 
directed  his  attention  to  Babylon.  Besides  the  so-called 
Egibi  tablets,  contracts,  etc.,  he  brought  with  him  this  time 
inscriptions  of  Nebuchadrezzar,  and,  what  is  more  impor- 
tant, inscriptions  of  Nabonidus  and  of  Cyrus.  During  his 
last  trip  the  most  important  discovery  was  the  Temple  of  the 
Sun  at  Abu-Habba,  the  Sephervaim  of  the  Old  Testament 
and  the  Sippara  of  the  inscriptions.  This  site  was  accident- 
ally, found  while  Rassam  was  hunting  for  another  mound. 
It  is  only  seven  to  eight  hours  southwest  of  Baghdad,  or  less 
than  twenty-five  miles. 

From  1876  to  i88i,rwhile  Rassam  was  also  at  work,  the 
French  vice-consul  at  Bosrah,  Ernest  de  Sarzec,  had  been 
excavating  at  Tello,  the  Shirpuria — or  Lagash — of  the  in- 
scriptions. The  finds  were  for  the  most  part  non-Semitic. 
They  are  now  in  the  Louvre.  De  Sarzec  has  been  excavat- 
ing at  Tello  at  intervals  during  the  last  twenty  years.  He 
was  there  in  1889,  and  was  visited  by  some  of  the  American 
party  who  were  then  excavating  at  Niffer. 

The  first  American  expedition  to  Babylonia  was  the 
Catherine  Wolfe  (1884-1885),  under  the  direction  of  Dr. 
William  Hayes  Ward,  of  "  The  Independent."  The  pur- 
pose of  this  party  was  to  explore  and  to  describe  sites  rather 
than  to  excavate.  The  most  interesting  part  of  the  report 
is  in  regard  to  Anbar,  about  which  Dr.  Ward  says:  "  The 


INTRODUCTION  xi 

discovery  of  this  city,  which  represents  the  Agade,  or  Sip- 
para  of  Anunit,  the  Akkad  of  Genesis  x,  lo,  the  Persabora 
of  classical  geographers,  and  the  Anbar  of  Arabic  his- 
torians, is  of  the  first  importance."  Dr.  Ward  has  dis- 
cussed this  site  at  length  in  the  January  number  of  "  He- 
braica,"  1886.  He  recommended  Anbar,  Nifler,  and  Warka 
for  excavation,  also  mentioning  Umm-el-Akarib,  and  the 
neighbouring  Yokha  as  specially  promising  sites.  While 
no  excavation  was  attempted  by  the  Catherine  Wolfe  Ex- 
pedition, it  laid  the  foundation  for  the  collection  belonging 
to  the  Metropolitan  Museum  in  New  York.  It  is  also  to 
be  regarded  as  the  forerunner  of  the  expedition  of  the 
Babylonian  Exploration  Fund,  sent  out  by  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania. 

In  1884  the  French  Government  sent  M.  Dieulafoy  and 
Messrs.  Babin  and  Houssay  upon  an  archaeological  mission 
to  Susa.  This  expedition  met  with  success,  Dieulafoy  sent 
the  finds  to  Paris,  and  a  special  gallery  has  been  set  aside 
in  the  Louvre  for  their  display. 

In  the  winter  of  1887  some  Fellahin  made  a  very  im- 
portant discovery  at  Tel-el-Amarna  in  Upper  Egypt,  on  the 
eastern  bank  of  the  Nile,  about  midway  between  Minieh 
and  Siout.  These  ruins  represent  the  site  of  the  Temple  of 
Amenophis  IV — i.  e.,  Khu-en-Aten,  the  so-called  "  Heretic 
King"  of  the  eighteenth  Egyptian  dynasty,  about  1500 
B.  c. — ^the  son  of  Amenophis  III.  Inthe  early  part  of  this 
century,  when  the  scientific  staff  attached  to  the  army  of 
Napoleon,  on  the  expedition  to  Egypt,  were  surveying  and 
searching  for  materials  for  a  complete  map  of  Egypt — 
afterward  edited  by  Jacotin — a  number  of  Egyptian  an- 
tiquities were  found  at  Tel-el-Amarna,  which,  afterward, 
found  their  way  into  the  different  European  museums. 
However  valuable  and  important  these  early  finds  were, 
there  can  not  be  any  comparison  between  them  and  the 
finds  of  1887.  No  one  knows  exactly  where  or  when  these 
tablets  were  found,  since  the  Arabs,  as  is  customary,  took 
care  to  obliterate  all  traces  of  their  digging  after  their  great 
find.     During  the  winter  of   1887  and   1888  about  two 


xii         ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

hundred  of  these  tablets  were  offered  for  sale  by  native 
dealers.  Afterward  others  were  found.  Various  views  have 
been  given  as  to  the  total  number  of  these  tablets  found, 
but  the  outside  limit  is  perhaps  three  hundred  and  thirty. 
The  British  Museum  secured  eighty-two  through  Dr. 
Budge,  the  Gizeh  Museum  in  Egypt  about  sixty,  and  the 
Berlin  Museum  about  one  hundred  and  sixty,  of  which  a 
very  large  number  are  so  fragmentary  as  to  g^ve  little  or  no 
connected  sense.  The  authorities  of  the  Berlin  Museum 
have  published  their  collection,  together  with  those  at 
Gizeh,  under  the  editorship  of  Drs.  Winckler  and  Abel. 
The  Tel-el-Amarna  tablets  in  the  British  Museum  are 
marked  Bu.  88-10-13+,  or  Budge,  the  13th  of  October, 
1888.  They  have  been  edited  by  Drs.  Bezold  and  Budge. 
In  addition  to  those  tablets  which  were  secured  by  the  dif- 
ferent museums,  a  great  many  passed  into  the  hands  of 
private  individuals,  Turkish,  Russian,  and  French  officials, 
and  missionaries. 

In  April,  1888,  Messrs.  Humann,  Luschan,  and  Winter 
made  excavations  in  Zinjirli  under  the  auspices  of  the  Ber- 
lin Oriental  Committee.  Zinjirli  lies  at  the  base  of  the 
Amanus  Mountains,  called  by  the  Turks  Giaour — east  of 
the  ridge — facing  the  Antioch  plain.  It  is  one  of  the  nar- 
rowest parts  of  the  plain,  midway  between  Antioch  and 
Marash.  The  work  of  excavation  was  renewed  in  1890 
and  189 1,  and  extended  to  Gerjin,  a  large  mound  an  hour 
and  a  quarter  to  the  east  of  Zinjirli.  The  most  important 
inscriptions  discovered  were:  (i)  The  Monolith  of  Esar- 
haddon;  (2)  the  Panammu  statue,  bearing  an  inscription 
in  old  Aramaic  characters  similar  to  those  on  the  Mesha 
stone;  (3)  the  Hadad  inscriptions;  and  (4)  the  Building 
inscription. 

The  second  American  expedition  to  Babylonia  was 
that  of  the  Babylonia,n  Exploration  Fund,  under  the  aus- 
pices of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  The  sites  for  ex- 
cavation, chosen  by  Dr.  Peters,  were  Anbar,  identified  by 
the  Catherine  Wolfe  Expedition  with  Sippar;  Birs  Nimrud 
(Borsippa)  and  Niffer  or  Nufar  (Nippur).    The  last-named 


INTRODUCTION  xiii 

site  was  the  one  finally  selected.  The  conditions  of  excava- 
tion were  those  prescribed  by  the  Turkish  law.  No  con- 
cessions, or  special  permissions,  were  granted,  except  in 
the  matter  of  the  topographical  map  of  the  site  to  be  ex- 
cavated, which  is  generally  required  beforehand.  A  popu- 
lar account  of  the  first  and  second  campaigns  has  been 
published  by  Dr.  Peters,  the  director,  under  the  title 
"  Nippur,  or  Explorations  and  Adventures  on  the  Eu- 
phrates." 

The  Irade  granting  permission  to  excavate — as  given  in 
Dr.  Peters's  "Nippur,"  I,  Appendix  C — reads  as  follows: 

"  In  behalf  of  the  trustees  of  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania, the  United  States  legation  at  Constantinople  has 
applied  for  permission  to  excavate  for  antiquities  at  Birs 
Nimrod,  in  the  district  of  Hilleh,  and  at  a  place  called  Tel 
Niffer,  in  the  subdistrict  of  Divaniah,  both  belonging  to 
the  Vilayet  of  Baghdad;  and  subject  to  the  following  con- 
ditions this  permission  is  herewith  granted: 

"  I.  According  to  the  laws  relating  thereto,  all  the  an- 
tiquities discovered  shall  revert  to  the  Imperial  Museum. 

"  2.  The  objects  found  shall  be  kept  in  a  safe  place  ap- 
pointed by  the  Government,  through  the  commissioner, 
and  the  excavators  shall  not  touch  or  meddle  with  them. 

"  3.  Excavations  shall  not  be  begun  until  maps  of  the 
places  to  be  excavated  are  approved  by  the  Vali  (governor- 
general)  of  the  glorious  city  of  Baghdad. 

"  4.  Excavations  shall  not  extend  beyond ,  the  limits 
shown  by  the  maps;  nor  shall  excavations  be  made  in  more 
than  one  place  at  the  same  time. 

"  5.  If  there  be  discovered  any  attempt  to  defraud  the 
Government  in  any  way  and  by  reason  thereof  the  excava- 
tions be  stopped,  the  excavators  shall  claim  no  damages 
for  losses  accruing  from  the  delay. 

"  6.  If  excavations  do  not  begin,  or  if  begun  are  not 
finished,  during  the  period  for  which  this  permission  is 
granted,  the  excavators  are  obliged  to  obtain  a  new  per- 
mission before  they  can  prosecute  further  excavations. 


xiv        ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

"7.  If,  at  the  end  of  the  excavations  or  before,  the 
Government  be  duly  notified,  and  the  excavators  are  proved 
to  have  walked  according  to  the  statutes  of  the  law,  the 
bond-money  deposited  by  the  excavators  shall  be  returned. 

"  8.  If  without  good  reason  excavations  do  not  begin 
within  three  months  after  this  permission  has  been  passed 
over  to  the  excavators  by  the  Vali  of  Baghdad,  or  if  with- 
out good  reason  the  excavations  shall  stop  at  any  time  for 
two  months,  this  permission  is  null  and  void. 

"  9.  The  permission  can  not  be  transferred  to  another 
party  or  sold. 

"  ID.  The  excavators  shall  pay  the  salary  of  the  com- 
missioner appointed  by  the  Minister  of  Public  Instruction 
to  accompany  them. 

"  Finally,  the  excavators  shall  strictly  fulfil  all  the  above 
conditions;  then  the  excavators  may  purchase  such  part  of 
the  objects  found  as  may  seem  superfluous  to  the  Imperial 
Museum  if,  after  the  price  has  been  agreed  upon,  the  su- 
preme court  of  Bab-el-Aali  consent  to  the  sale  thereof. 

"  Therefore,  for  a  period  of  two  years  to  the  above- 
mentioned  trustees  this  as  a  permission  has  been  given. 
"  Grand  Vizier  Mehmed  Kiamil  Ben  Sallih, 
"  Minister  of  Public  Instruction — Muniflf. 

"  November  19,  1304;  and  First  Spring  27,  1306." 

The  expedition  left  the  United  States  in  June,  1888, 
and  arrived  at  Niflfer  on  January  30,  1889.  On  account  of 
the  great  importance  of  the  results  obtained,  the  following 
short  descriptions,  taken  from  "The  Babylonian  Expedi- 
tion of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,"  Volume  I,  Part  II, 
edited  by  Professor  Hilprecht,  curator  of  the  Babylonian 
Museum  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  are  given  in 
full: 

"  In  the  first  campaign  (1888-1889)  the  staff  were  John 
P.  Peters,  director;  Hermann  V.  Hilprecht  and  Robert 
Francis  Harper,  Assyriologists;  J.  H.  Haynes,  business 
manager,  commissary,  and  photographer;  Percy  Hast- 
ings Field,  architect;  Daniel  Noorian,  interpreter;  Bedry 


INTRODUCTION  XV 

Bey,  commissioner  of  the  Ottoman  Government.  The 
excavations  occupied  the. time  from  February  6  to  April 
15,  1889,  with  a  maximum  force  of  two  hundred  Arabs. 
The  principal  results  were:  a  trigonometrical  survey  of  the 
ruins  and  their  surroundings,  an  examination  of  the  whole 
field  by  trial  trenches,  systematic  excavations  chiefly  at 
Sections  III,  V,  I,  and  X.  Many  clay  coffins  examined 
and  photographed.  Objects  carried  away:  Over  two  thou- 
sand cuneiform  tablets  and  fragments  (among  them  three 
dated  in  the  reign  of  King  Ashuretililani  of  Assyria);  a 
number  of  inscribed  bricks;  terra-cotta  brick  stamp  of 
Naram-Sin ;  fragment  of  a  barrel  cylinder  of  Sargon  of  As- 
syria; inscribed  stone  tablet;  several  fragments  of  inscribed 
vases  (among  them  two  of  King  Lugalzaggisi  of  Erech); 
door-socket  of  Kurigalzu;  about  twenty-five  Hebrew  bowls; 
a  large  number  of  stone  and  terra-cotta  vases  of  various 
sizes  and  shapes;  terra-cotta  images  of  gods  and  their  an- 
cient moulds;  reliefs,  figurines  and  toys  in  terra-cotta; 
weapons  and  utensils  in  stone  and  metal;  jewelry  in  gold, 
silver,  bronze,  and  various  precious  stones;  a  number  of 
weights,  seals,  and  seal  cylinders,  etc. 

"  In  the  second  campaign  (1889-1890)  the  staff  were 
John  P.  Peters,  director;  J.  H.  Haynes,  business  manager, 
commissary,  and  photographer;  Daniel  Noorian,  inter- 
preter and  superintendent  of  workmen;  and  an  Ottoman 
commissioner.  The  excavations  occupied  the  time  from 
January  14  to  May  3,  1890,  with  a  maximum  force  of  four 
hundred  Arabs.  The  principal  results  were  an  examina- 
tion of  ruins  by  trial  trenches  and  systematic  excavations 
at  Sections  III,  V,  and  X  continued,  a  row  of  rooms  on 
the  southeast  side  of  the  ziggurrat  and  shrine  of  Bur-Sin 
II  excavated.  The  objects  carried  away  were  about  eight 
thousand  cuneiform  tablets  and  fragments  (most  of  them 
dated  in  the  reigns  of  the  Cassite  kings  and  of  rulers  of  the 
second  dynasty  of  Ur);  a  number  of  new  inscribed  bricks; 
three  brick  stamps  in  terra-cotta  and  three  door-sockets  in 
diorite  of  Sargon  I;  one  brick  stamp  of  Naram-Sin;  sixty- 
one  inscribed  vase  fragments  of  Alusharshid;  two  vase  frag- 


xvi       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

ments,  of  Entemena  of  Shirpurla;  one  inscribed  unhewn 
marble  block  and  several  vase  fragments  of  Lugal-kigub- 
nidudu;  a  few  vase ,  fragments  of  Lugalzaggisi;  two  door- 
sockets  in  diorite  of  Bur-Sin  II;  over  one  hundred  inscribed 
votive  axes,  knobs,  intaglios,  etc.,  presented  to  the  temple 
by  Cassite  kings;  about  seventy-five  Hebrew  and  other  im- 
scribed  bowls;  one  enamelled  clay  coffin  and  many  other 
antiquities  similar  in  character  to  those  excavated  during 
the  first  campaign,  but  in  greater  number. 

"  In  the  third  campaign  (i  893-1 896)  the  staff  were  J. 
H.  Haynes,  director,  etc.,  and  an  Ottoman  commissioner; 
Joseph  A.  Meyer,  architect  and  draughtsman,  from  June  to 
November,  1894.  The  excavations  occupied  the  time  from 
April  1 1, 1893,  to  February  15, 1896  (with  an  interruption  of 
two  months,  April  4  to  June  4,  1894),  with  an  average  force 
of  fifty  to  sixty  Arabs.  The  principal  results  were  systematic 
excavations  at  Sections  III,  I,  II,  VI-X,  and  searching  for 
the  original  bed  and  banks  of  the  Shatt-en-Nil;  an  exam- 
ination of  the  lowest  strata  of  the  temple,  three  sections  ex- 
cavated down  to  the  water  level;  a  critical  determination  of 
the  different  layers  of  the  basis  of  uncovered  pavements 
and  platforms;  the  later  additions  to  the  ziggurrat  studied, 
photographed,  and,  whenever  necessary,  removed;  the  pre- 
served portions  of  Ur-Gur's  ziggurrat  uncovered  on  all 
four  sides;  systematic  study  of  the  ancient  system  of  Baby- 
lonian drainage;  the  two  most  ancient  arches  of  Babylonia 
discovered;  structures  built  by  Naram-Sin  and  pre-Sar- 
gonic  buildings  and  vases  unearthed;  about  four  hundred 
tombs  of  various  periods  and  forms  excavated,  and  their 
contents  saved.  The  objects  carried  away  were  about 
twenty-one  thousand  cuneiform  tablets  and  fragments 
(among  them  contracts  dated  in  the  reign  of  Dungi  and 
Darius  II  and  Artaxerxes  Mnemon);  many  bricks  of  Sar- 
gori  I  and  Naram-Sin;  the  first  inscribed  brick  of  Dungi 
in  Nippur;  fifteen  brick  stamps  of  Sargon  I,  one  of  Naram- 
Sin;  inscribed  torso  of  a  statue  in  diorite  (two  thirds  of 
life  size,  about  3000  B.  c),  and  fragments  of  other  statues  of 
the  same  period;  incised  votive  tablet  of  Ur-Enlil;  three  un- 


INTRODUCTION  xvii 

finished  marble  blocks  of  Lugal-kigub-nidudu,  and  over 
five  hundred  vase  fragments  of  pre-Sargonic  kings  and 
patesis;  about  sixty  inscribed  vase  fragments  of  Alush- 
arshid,  one  of  Sargon,  three  of  Entemena;  one  door-socket 
and  one  votive  tablet  of  Ur-Gur;  one  votive  tablet  of 
Dungi;  a  number  of  inscribed  lapis-lazuli  disks  of  Cassite 
kings;  fragment  of  a  barrel  cylinder  of  the  Assyrian  pe- 
riod; fragments  of  an  old  Babylonian  terra-cotta  fountain 
in  high  relief;  water  cocks;  drain  tiles;  a  collection  of 
representative  bricks  from  all  the  buildings  found  in  Nip- 
pur; about  fifty  clay  coffins  and  burial  urns,  and  many 
other  antiquities  of  a  character  similar  to  those  excavated 
during  the  first  two  campaigns  but  in  greater  number  and 
variety." 

The  Imperial  Ottoman  Museum  at  Constantinople  has 
recently  been  conducting  excavations  at  Abu  Habba  (Sip- 
par)  with  funds  granted  from  the  private  purse  of  the 
Sultan.  These  excavations  have  been  under  the  direction 
of  Father  Scheil  and  Bedry  Bey,  and  important  finds  have 
been  made. 

The  prospects  for  future  excavations  are  very  poor,  for 
two  chief  reasons.  The  Turkish  Government,  in. the  per- 
son of  Hamdy  Bey,  of  the  Stamboul  Museum,  has, finally 
learned  the  value  of  these  discoveries^  and  has  passed  a 
law  that  all  antiquities  are  hereafter  to  be  regarded  as  the 
property  of  the  Sultan.  The  translation  of  the  Turkish  law 
on  archaeological  excavations;  which  follows,  is  taken  from 
Dr.  Peters's"  Nippur,"  Appendix  D: 

"  Article  I.  The  remains  left  by  the  ancient  popula- 
tions of  the  states  forming  at  present  the  dominions  of  the 
Ottoman  Empire — ^that  is  to  say,  the  gold  and  silver  and 
other  ancient  coins,  and  the  inscriptions  containing  refer- . 
ence  to  history,  and  statues,  and  sepultures,  and  ornamental 
objects  in  clay,  stone,  and  other  materials,  utensils,  arms, 
tools,  statuettes,  ring-stones,  temples,  palaces,  circuses, 
theatres,  fortifications,  bridges,  aqueducts,,  bodies  and  ob- 
jects in  tombs,  burying  mounds,  mausoleums  and  columns 
— are  regarded  as  antiquities. 


xviii     ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"  Art.  II.  In  general,  the  right  of  ownership  of  all  the 
antiquities  is  regulated  by  the  present  law. 

"  Art.  III.  •  All  the  antiquities  discovered  in  the  Otto- 
man territory,  be  it  on  the  surface,  underground,  or  ex- 
humed, picked  up  in  the  sea,  the  lakes,  the  rivers,  the 
streams,  or  the  valleys,  are  the  property  of  the  Govern- 
ment. 

"  Art.  IV.  •  The  monuments  of  antiquity  which  happen 
to  be  in  the  property  or  houses  of  private  persons,  either 
loose  or  built  in  the  walls,  can  not  be  moved  by  the  pro- 
prietors of  the  property;  and  for  the  keeping  of  those  an- 
tiquities the  Government  has  inaugurated  the  following 
measures: 

"Art.  V.  It  is  forbidden  to  destroy  the  antiquities 
which  may  be  discovered  on  one's  land,  like  buildings, 
roads,  walls  of  castles  and  fortresses,  baths,  tombs,  and 
other  things;  and  in  order  not  to  occasion  any  damage  to 
antiquities,  they  will  refrain  from  establishing  any  lime-kiln 
at  a  distance  less  than  half  a  kilometre  from  the  spot  where 
the  antiquities  are  to  be  found;  or  from  the  erection  of 
any  kind  of  building  and  works  which  would  be  injurious; 
or  to  remove  the  stones  of  tumbled-down  ancient  monu- 
ments; from  measuring  or  taking  moulds;  or  of  placing 
ladders  on  them  for  any  purpose  whatsoever;  from  appro- 
priating or  restoring  old  buildings  and  making  use  of  them 
in  part  or  in  all;  or  to  use  them  for  deposits  of  grain,  straw, 
or  hay,  or  to  use  them  as  tanks,  or  for  cattle,  or  turn  them 
into  fountains,  or  to  use  them  for  other  purposes. 

'  "Art.  VI.  The. places  on  which  the  Government  has 
decided  to  make  excavations  may  be  bought  from  their 
owners,  if  they  are  in  the  hands  of  private  persons  or  so- 
cities;  if  they  refuse  to  sell,  the  regulation  on  expropriation 
for  public  uses  shall  be  applied  in  order  to  buy  that  prop- 
erty. 

"  Art.  VII.  No  one  is  allowed  to  make  excavations,  to 
extract  or  appropriate  antiquities  in  the  Ottoman  domin- 
ions without  having  previously  obtained  the  official  permit 
in  accordance  with  the  present  regulation. 


INTRODUCTION  xix 

"Art.  VIII.  The  exportation  of  antiquities  found 
within  Ottoman  territory  is  absolutely  forbidden. 

"  Art.  IX.  The  permit  for  the  excavation  and  ex- 
humation of  antiquities  may  be  granted  to  private  persons 
or  to  any  scientific  society.  The  terms  of  that  permit  must 
be  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  of  the  present  regu- 
lation. 

"  Art.  X.  As  to  the  searches  and  excavations  for  an- 
tiquities, after  the  opinion  of  the  administration  of  the  Im- 
perial Museum  and  the  conclusions  of  the  Council  of  Public 
Instruction  have  been  obtained,  and  after  the  Ministry  of 
Public  Instruction  has  submitted  the  case  to  the  Sublime 
Porte,  the  final  permit  will  be  granted  in  accordance  with 
the  terms  contained  in  the  third  chapter  of  the  present  regu- 
lation. 

"  Art.  XI.  A  duplicate  list  describing  the  quantity 
and  quality  of  the  objects  excavated  must  be  made  on  the 
printed  blanks  to  be  furnished  by  the  Ministry  of  Public 
Instruction,  which  must  be  signed  and  certified;  then  one 
of  the  copies  will  remain  with  the  excavator  and  the  other 
with  the  Board  of  Public  Instruction;  where  such  boards 
do  not  exist  they  will  be  recorded  in  the  books  kept  for 
the  purpose  by  the  local  authorities  and  sent  to  the  Min- 
istry of  Public  Instruction. 

"  Art.  XII.  ■  The  antiquities  excavated  with  an  official 
permit  belong  to  the  Imperial  Museum,  and  the  excavators 
have  only  the  right  to  take  drawings  or  moulds. 

"  Art.  XIII.  The  antiquities  discovered  without  per- 
mit are  confiscated;  and  if  the  excavator  has  already  dis- 
posed of  them,  he  will  pay  their  value. 

"  Art.  XIV.  The  antiquities  which  may  be  discovered 
by  accident  in  digging  the  foundations  of  a  building  or  of 
a  wall  or  of  a  sewer  shall  be  divided  in  equal  parts  between 
the  owner  of  the  property  and  the  Government;  and  then 
at  the  division  of  those  antiquities,  as  the  Government  had 
the  choice  of  taking  such  as  it  thinks  proper  on  paying 
their  value,  it  may  get  from  the  landowner,  out  of  those 
which  have  fallen  to  his  share,  such  a  portion  as  it  wants. 


XX         ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

"Art.  XV.  Those  who  desire  to  undertake  excava- 
tions of  antiquities  shall  prepare  a  topographical  plan  show- 
ing the  boundaries  of  the  spot  to  be  excavated,  and  present 
it  at  Constantinople  to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction; 
and,  if  they  are  in  the  provinces  of  the  governors-general, 
with  written  request,  and  the  governors-general  will  for- 
ward it  together  with  their  report  of  their  investigation  of 
the  subject  to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction. 

"  Art.  XVI.  The  delivery  of  the  permit  for  excava- 
tion appertains  to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction  after 
agreement  with  the  direction  of  the  Imperial  Museum,  but 
unless  the  necessary  investigations  are  made  and,  accord- 
ing to  Article  X,  the  consent  of  the  Sublime  Porte  is  ob- 
tained, this  permit  can  not  be  given. 

"  Art.  XVII.  •  The  permit  for  excavating  antiquities 
can  only  be  granted  under  the  following  conditions: 

"  I.  After  ascertaining  that  it  will  cause  no  obstruction 
to  the  forts,  fortifications,  or  public  buildings,  nor  interfere 
with  public  utility. 

"  2.  If  the  excavations  are  to  take  place  in  the  landed 
property  of  a  private  person,  to  satisfy  the  owner. 

"  3.  The  pecuniary  security  which  shall  be  agreed  upon 
by  the  director  of  the  Imperial  Museum  must  be  actually 
deposited. 

"  After  the  fulfilment  of  those  conditions,  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Instruction,  after  conforming  to  the  prescriptions 
of  the  preceding  article,  delivers  the  permit. 

"  But  no  permit  can  be  granted  for  more  than  two 
years.  And  if,  before  beginning  the  excavations,  or  even 
after  having  begun  them,  for  some  reason  the  period  of  the 
permit  is  allowed  to  pass  and  the  explorer  wants  to  con- 
tinue his  researches^-if  there  is  no  objection,  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Instruction,  after  an  agreement  with  the  director 
of  the  museum,  may  grant  a  permit  for  an  additional  period 
not  longer  than  one  year. 

"Art.  XVIII.  The  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction 
will  collect  on  the  permits  of  excavation  on  account  of 
the  museum:  on  a  permit  from  one  day  to  six  months,  five 


INTRODUCTION  xxi 

liras;  on  a  permit  from  six  months  to  one  year,  ten  liras; 
on  a  permit  from  one  year  to  two  years,  twenty  liras. 

"  Art.  XIX.  If,  after  having  obtained  the  permit, 
the  excavations  are  not  commenced  within  the  period  of 
three  months  from  its  date,  or  after  having  commenced 
then  they  should  be  discontinued  for  two  months,  the 
permit  will  be  annulled :  and  if  the  explorer  wants  to  renew 
it  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction,  with  the  director  of 
the  museum,  may  continue  or  not  the  old  permit,  or  cancel 
it  and  furnish  a  new  one  in  its  place. 

"  Art.  XX.  The  permit  for  excavatioh  shall  not  em- 
brace a  larger  area  than  ten  square  kilometres.  If  after  the 
commencement  of  the  excavations  an  objection  is  found 
on  the  part  of  the  Government,  on  the  order  of  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Instruction  the  works  shall  be  temporarily 
stopped,  and  the  time  of  stoppage  shall  be  accounted  for 
in  the  period  of  the  permit,  and  the  explorer  will  have  no 
claim  for  expenses  or  damages  on  account  of  that  stop- 
page. ■     ;  '., 

"  Art.  XXL  ■  At  the  place  where  excavations  are  to 
be  made  the  Government  will  keep  an  able. and  capable 
official;  and  the  travelling  expenses  and  the  salary  of  this 
official,  after  having  been  fixed  by  the  authorities,: will  be 
collected  from  the  excavators  in .  full  and  •  paid  to  him 
monthly  by  the  Treasurer  of  Public  Instruction.     - 

"  If  the  excavations  are  finished  before  the  expiration  of 
the  permit  and  the  researches  abandoned,  the  surplus  of 
the  money  paid  for  the  salary  of  the  official  shall  be  re- 
turned to  the  excavator.  I 

"  Art.  XXII.'  No  permit  of  •  excavatioh  shall  be 
granted  to  officials  of  the  Ottoman  or  of  a  foreign  govern- 
ment for  excavations  to  be  made  within  the  district  of  their 

official  post.  '■      r:    ■■■ 

"  Art.  XXIII.  The  transfer  by  the  recipient  of  a  per- 
mit of  excavation  is  forbidden.  '      ' 

"  Art.  XXIV.  A  person  -  can  not  have  permits  for 
excavation  in  more  than  one  place.  '  > 

"  Art.  XXV.     Those  who  by  accident  discover  an- 


xxii       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

tiquities  are  bound,  if  at  Constantinople,  to  inform  the 
Ministry  of  Public  Instruction  within  five  days,  and  if  in 
the  provinces,  to  inform  the  local  authorities  within  ten 
days. 

"  Art.  XXVI.  At  the  expiration  of  the  permit  or  at 
the  termination  of  the  excavations,  when  the  excavator 
gives  notice  of  it,  if  it  is  found  that  he  has  fulfilled  all  the 
conditions  of  the  regulations,  the  money  he  has  deposited 
as  security  will  be  returned  to  him  in  accordance  with  the 
receipt. 

"  Art.  XXVII.  The  amount  produced  by  seizures  of 
antiquities,  or  on  condemnation,  from  sales  at  public  auc- 
tion in  accordance  with  the  rule  by  an  official  auctioneer, 
and  the  money  accruing  from  divisions  with  the  owners 
of  antiquities,  and  also  fines,  and  fees  of  permits,  and  the 
product  of  confiscations,  shall  belong  to  the  treasury  of  the 
museum. 

"  Art.  XXVIII.  The  importation  from  abroad  of  any 
kind  of  antiquities  is  free  and  exempt  from  customs  duties, 
and  all  kinds  of  antiquities  which  are  to  be  transported  from 
one  district  to  another  within  the  Ottoman  dominions  are 
exempt  from  internal  duties. 

"Art.  XXIX.  Permission  for  the  re-exportation  of 
antiquities  introduced  from  abroad  into  the  Ottoman  do- 
minions, and  for  the  transportation  from  one  district  of  the 
empire  to  another  of  antiquities  found  within  the  empire, 
can  be  obtained  by  drawing  up  a  list  of  said  antiquities  by 
the  owner  and  shipper  and  transmitting  it  to  the  director 
of  the  museum  through  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction; 
and  in  localities  where  there  are  no  such  boards  or  com- 
missions, to  the  local  authorities. 

"  The  owner  of  antiquities  introduced  into  the  empire 
from  abroad  is  bound  within  eight  days  to  transmit  a  list 
of  them,  as  before  stated,  to  the  administration  of  the  mu- 
seum through  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction,  and  in 
the  provinces  to  the  Board  or  Commission  of  Public  In- 
struction; and  if  there  is  no  such  board  or  commission,  to 
the  local  authorities. 


INTRODUCTION  xxiii 

"  Art.  XXX.  In  any  case  the  re-exportation  of  an- 
tiquities imported  from  abroad,  and  the  transportation  from 
one  district  of  the  empire  to  another  of  antiquities  found 
within  the  empire,  are  necessarily  subject  to  an  official  au- 
thorization, which  can  be  procured  from  the  Ministry  of 
Public  Instruction,  with  the  agreement  of  the  director  of 
the  museum. 

"  Art.  XXXI.  The  antiquities  exported  without  the 
special  permit  of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction  shall, 
if  captured,  be  seized  or  confiscated  in  the  name  of  the 
museum. 

"  Art.  XXXII.  The  granting  of  the  official  permis- 
sion to  export  antiquities  into  foreign  countries,  though  re- 
served to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction  with  the  con- 
sent of  the  director  of  the  museum,  is  subject  to  the  fol- 
lowing conditions: 

"  I.  The  museum  should  possess  already  a  duplicate  of 
the  kind. 

"  2.  It  should  be  established  that  the  said  antiquities 
have  been  imported  from  a  foreign  country. 

"  Art.  XXXIII.  Those'  who  appropriate  antiquities 
found  on  the  ground  or  exhumed,  on  private  or  govern- 
ment property,  will  be  liable,  in  accordance  with  Article 
138  of  the  Penal  Code,  to  damages  and  a  fine,  and  to  im- 
prisonment from  one  month  to  one  year. 

"Art.  XXXIV.  If  those  who  have  accidentally  discov- 
ereci  some  antiquities  do  not  give  notice  of  it,  they,  after 
being  deprived  of  the  share  to  which  they  had  a  right,  are 
punished  with  a  fine  equal  to  one  fourth  of  the  value  of 
their  discovery;  and  if  those  antiquities  are  out  of  reach, 
besides  the  fine  they  will  have  to  pay  their  total  value. 

"Art.  XXXV.  Those  who,  in  transportation  from 
one  district  to  another  of  antiquities  found  within  the  em- 
pire, violate  Article  XXXII,  will  be  subjected  to  a  fine  of 
from  one  to  five  Turkish  pounds. 

"Art.  XXXVI.  The  lawsuits  which  may  originate 
out  of  these  regulations  shall  be  heard  in  the  ordinary 
courts  of  law. 


xxiv     ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"  Art.  XXXVII.  The  Ministry  of  Public  Instruction 
is  charged  with  the  enforcement  of  the  present  regulations. 

"The  23d  of  Rebbi-ul-Akhir,  1301,  and  9th  of  Febru- 
ary, 1299  (i.  e.,  February  21,  1884,  a.  d.)." 

These  conditions  can  not  be  regarded  as  very  generous. 
Again,  the  jealousy  of  the  ambassadors  of  the  principal 
powers  at  Constantinople  has  frustrated  many  attempts  to 
obtain  special  and  favourable  firmans  from  the  Sultan.  On 
account  of  the  greed  of  the  Turks  and  the  jealousy  of  the 
powers,  there  is  little  encouragement  to  attempt  further 
work  in  excavating  these  Assyrian,  Babylonian,  and  Hittite 
sites.  Some  of  the  most  important  ruins  are  in  the  most 
dangerous  districts,  in  places  over  which  the  Turkish  Gov- 
ernment has  no  control — e.  g.,  Ur,  one  of  the  first  capitals 
of  Babylonia,  Senkereh,  Warka,  Niffer,  etc.  The  Bedawin, 
in  whose  territory  these  sites  lie,  do  not  acknowledge  the 
rule  of  the  Turkish  Government,  and  they  are  not  the  gen- 
tlest people  in  the  world,  as  some  of  the  experiences  of  the 
last  American  expedition  go  to  prove. 

The  native  Arabs  have  been  excavating  for  many  years, 
and  with  good  results.  There  are  in  London  one  or  two 
Arabs  representing  the  dealers  in  Baghdad  and  Hilleh. 
The  best^known  dealer  there  was  Joseph  Shemtob,  an  Arab 
Jew.  The  University  of  Pennsylvania  in  1888  purchased 
two  large  collections  from  Shemtob,  and  in  1889  another 
large  collection  from  Shemtob's  chief  in  Baghdad.  These 
dealers  always  have  in  their  possession  a  large  number  of 
tablets,  about  which  they  know  nothing  and  for  which  they 
ask  fabulous  prices.  .It  takes  a  long  time  to  close  a  bar- 
gain with  them,  but  gold  seems  to  have  a  great  charm  for 
the  Arabs,  arid  after  a  few  weeks  they  are  generally  content 
to  take  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  price  originally  asked. 

The  Decipherment  of  the  Cuneiform  Inscriptions. — In  the 
beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century  accounts  of  the  in- 
scriptions in  Persepolis  were  brought  by  travellers  to  Eu- 
rope. The  first  of  these  accounts  is  that  of  the  celebrated 
traveller,  Pietro  della  Valle,  in  a  letter  from  Schiraz,  dated 
October  21,  1621.    In  1674  Chardin  copied  the  first  com- 


INTRODUCTION  xxv 

plete  inscription,  the  so-called  Window  inscription,  the 
shortest  of  the  trilingual  Achaemenian  inscriptions.  A  copy 
of  this  may  be  found  in  his  "  Travels,"  published  in  171 1. 
This  inscription  was  copied  in  1694  by  Kampfer.  He  also 
copied  the  Babylonian  text  of  the  so-called  Persepolis  in- 
scription H* — ^in  all  twenty-five  lines.  In  his  work,  pub- 
lished in  1712,  Kampfer  discusses  the  nature  of  the  newly 
discovered  writing,  and  inquires  whether  it  is  alphabetic, 
syllabic,  or  ideographic,  deciding  in  favour  of  the  ideo- 
graphic. Kampfer  was  also  the  first  to  make  use  of  the 
term  cuneiform — i.  e.,  wedge-shaped.  In  1701  the  Dutch- 
man, de  Bruin,  began  his  travels.  He  devoted  the  year 
1704  to  the  ruins  of  Persepolis.  In  1714  he  published 
two  new  trilingual  inscriptions,  besides  one  Old  Persian 
and  one  Babylonian.  Notwithstanding  the  publication 
of  these  new  finds,  nothing  further  was  done  toward  their 
decipherment  until  the  beginning  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury. 

In  1762  the  celebrated  vase  of  Xerxes  was  found  by 
Count  Caylus,  and  the  quadrilingual  inscription  on  it  con- 
taining the  words  "  Xerxes,  the  Great  King,"  was  pub- 
lished in  the  same  year.  The  important  role  played  by 
these  vase  inscriptions  will  be  noticed  later. 

In  1765  Carsten  Niebuhr  copied  in  Persepolis  several 
Achasmenian  inscriptions.  He  also  distinguished  forty-two 
different  signs,  which  he  correctly  called  letters.  From 
1798  Tychsen  and  Miinter  carried  on  the  work  begun  by 
Niebuhr,  and  published  their  scanty  results  in  1862.  In 
the  same  year,  on  September  14th,  Georg  Friedrich  Grote- 
fend  placed  his  discoveries  before  the  Society  of  Sciences  in 
Gottingen.  Grotefend  was  the  first  to.  decipher  a  com- 
plete inscription.  His  discoveries  did  not  at  once  receive 
the  notice  which  they  merited,  and  it  was  not  until  the 
Parisian  Arabist,  Silvestre  de  Sacy,  published  his  accounts 
of  them  that  they  attracted  attention. 

The  following  short  account  of  Grotefend's  method 
of  work  is,  for  the  most  part,  from  Friedrich  Delitzsch's 
appendices  in  the  German  edition  of  George  Smith's  "  Chal- 


xxvi      ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

dean  Genesis."  As  toward  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  cen- 
tury new  and  more  trustworthy  copies  of  inscriptions 
arrived  in  Europe,  their  study  was  taken  up  again,  and  in 
1802  Grotefend,  of  Hanover,  published  the  first  transla- 
tion of  a  cuneiform  text — ^viz.,  of  a  Persian  Achaemenian 
inscription.  His  genius  succeeded,  by  combinations  as  bold 
as  they  were  ingenious,  in  paving  the  way  for  further  dis- 
coveries. The  old  authors  told  him  that  the  palaces  of 
Persepolis,  out  of  whose  ruins  the  inscriptions  came,  had 
been  built  by  Achaemenian  kings.  The  Pehlevi  inscrip- 
tions, scattered  over  these  same  ruins,  and  deciphered  by 
de  Sacy,  led  to  the  expectation  that  something  somewhat 
analogous  would  be  found  in  the  cuneiform.  Grotefend  had 
already  learned  the  direction  in  which  these  inscriptions 
were  to  be  read — ^viz.,  from  left  to  right.  He  chose  for  his 
work  two  small  ones — the  first  of  which  had  been  engraved 
on  a  door-post  of  a  building  on  the  second  palace  terrace  of 
Persepolis,  and  the  second  on  the  wall  of  a  building  on  the 
third  terrace.  Miinter  had  already,  by  chance,  noted  in  the 
inscriptions  a  word  which  was  often  repeated,  and  he  had 
decided  that  this  word  must  have  the  meaning  of  "  king." 
This  same  word  was  also  found  in  the  two  inscriptions  of 
Grotefend,  which  were  almost  alike.  The  only  difference 
was  that  in  the  first  inscription  a  group  of  sig^s,  which  we 
may  call  A,  preceded  the  word  for  "  king,"  and  in  the  sec- 
ond a  group  which  we  may  call  B;  and  further  that  in  the 
second,  A  and  the  word  for  "  king  "  following  it  were  re- 
peated, while  in  the  first  a  group  of  signs  (C)  without  the 
title  of  king  corresponded  to  A.  Accordingly,  the  two  in- 
scriptions had  some  such  form  as  this: 

I.  A  king C 

II.  B  king A  king 

From  this  Grotefend  drew  the  conclusion  that  these 
groups  of  signs  contained  proper  names,  standing  in  a 
genealogical  relation  to  each  other.  A  must  be  the  father 
of  B,  C  the  father  of  A,  and,  while  A  as  well  as  B  were 
kings,  C,  because  the  title  was  ever  wanting  after  his  name, 
was  not  born  a  king.    According  to  this,  A  seemed  to  be 


INTRODUCTION  xxvii 

the  founder  of  a  dynasty.  The  kings  were  Achasmenian, 
and  hence  only  two  things  were  possible:  A  contained 
either  the  name  of  Cyrus  or  that  of  Darius.  The  first  pos- 
sibility was  discarded  at  once,  because  the  father  as  well 
as  the  son  of  Cyrus  was  named  Cambyses,  and  hence  the 
groups  of  signs,  B  and  C,  must  have  been  the  same.  Again, 
group  A  was  too  long  for  Cyrus.  Accordingly,  Darius 
was  all  that  was  left  for  A,  and  Grotefend,  taking  into  con- 
sideration the  forms  of  these  names  known  to  the  Greeks, 
Hebrews,  and  Persians,  read: 

A:  D-a-r-h-w-u-sch  =  Darius. 
B :  Kh-sch-h-a-r-sch-a  =  Xerxes. 
C:  V-i-sch-t-a-s-p  =  Hystaspes. 
And  translated  the  inscriptions: 

"  Xerxes,  the  mighty  king,  king  of  kings,  son  of  Darius, 
the  king." 

"  Darius,  the  mighty  king,  king  of  kings  *  *  *  son  of 
Hystaspes." 

Later  investigations  showed  that  he  had  read  these 
signs  correctly.  There  was  only  one  mistake — the  "  h  " 
should  have  been  read  "  j."  The  correctness  of  his  method 
of  decipherment  was  confirmed,  beyond  all  doubt,  by  the 
vase  mentioned  above.  On  this  there  is  a  quadrilingual  in- 
scription. The  first  is  written  in  Egyptian  hieroglyphs, 
and  was  deciphered  by  Champollion  as  the  name  of  Xerxes. 
The  other  three  are  in  cuneiform  characters,  the  first  of 
which,  the  Old  Persian,  corresponded  exactly  to  the  group 
on  the  Persepolis  inscription,  which  Grotefend  read  Xerxes. 
All  later  investigations  are  based  on  the  discovery  of  Grote- 
fend. Thirty  years  later  (1836),  Burnouf  and  Lassen  took 
up  the  work.  Lassen  did  great  service  to  the  young  sci- 
ence by  his  discovery  in  one  of  the  Darius  inscriptions  of 
a  list  of  peoples  which  added  much  new  material  for  the 
recognition  of  new  values  of  the  signs,  and  rendered  it 
possible,  for  the  first  time,  not  only  to  read  the  Persian 
cuneiform  inscriptions,  but  also  to  explain  them  from  a 
philological  standpoint.  The  theory  of  Grotefend  that  the 
language  of  these  inscriptions  and  that  of  the  Avesta  were 


xxviii  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

exactly  similar  was  proved  to  be  wrong.  From  this  time 
on,  new  discoveries  in  both  the  grammar  and  the  lexi- 
con were  made,  from  time  to  time,  by  such  men  as  Beer, 
Holtzmann,  Westergaard,  and  others,  but  the  material 
at  hand  was  altogether  /too  limited  to  perriiit  any  great 
advances. 

It  was  the  good  fortune  of  Henry  Rawlinson  to  discover 
this  material.  In  1835,  while  a  resident  in  the  East,  Raw- 
linson began  his  study  of  the  cuneiform  inscriptions.  At 
first  his  work  was  quite  independent  of  Grotefend's.  From 
an  examination  of  the  inscriptions  of  Elvend,  near  Rama- 
dan, without  any  assistance  from  Grotefend's  work,  he 
found  the  names  of  Hystaspes,  Darius,  and  Cyrus.  In  the 
spring  of  1836,  while  in  Teheran,  he  first  became  acquainted 
with  the  works  of  his  predecessors — that  of  Grotefend  in 
the  third  edition  (1815)  of  Heeren's  "  Ideen,"  and  of  Saint 
Martin  in  Klaproth's  "  Apergu  de  I'origine  des  diverses 
ecritures  "  (Paris,  1832).  He  found,  however,  that  he  was 
already,  as  the  result  of  his  own  study,  further  advanced  than 
Grotefend.  In  1837  he  copied,  for  the  first  time,  a  large  part 
of  the  Persian  text  of  the  Behistun  inscription — ^viz.,  the 
whole  of  Column  I,  the  first  paragraph  of  Column  II,  and 
i-io  of  Column  III,  besides  four  small  inscriptions.  On 
January  i,  1838,  he  sent  his  first  translations,  with  notes, 
to  London,  and  they  were  brought  to  notice  on  May 
12,  1838,  by  Sir  Gore  Ouseley,  in  a  meeting  of  the  Asiatic 
Society.  Rawlinson's  first  report  was  not  published  at 
that  time.  Gildemeister,  of  Bonn,  has  printed  the  most  im- 
portant part  in  Volume  XXVI  of  the  "Journal  of  the 
German  Oriental  Society"  (Leipsic).  In  1839  he  was 
called  into  active  service  in  the  war  with  the  Afghans, 
and  it  was  1843  before  he  could  again  return  to  his  copy- 
ing. In  1844  he  finished  the  first'  inscription— i,  e.,  the 
Old  Persian — ^and  in  1847  he  copied  the  Babylonian  text 
During  the  following  year  he  worked  out  the  basis  of  all 
later  decipherment.  In  1849  ^^  returned  to  England  with 
the  manuscript  containing  the  Babylonian  text  of  this  tri- 
lingual inscription,  and  in  1850  he  presented  to  the  Royal 


INTRODUCTION  xxix 

Asiatic  Society  a  translation  of  the  Assyrian  inscription 
found  on  the  famous  Black  Obelisk  of  Shalmaneser.  In 
185 1  the  printing  oi  his  "  Memoir  on  the  Babylonian  and 
Assyrian  Inscriptions "  was  finished.  This  contains  the 
cuneiform  text,  the  transliteration  and  translation  of  the 
Babylonian  version  of  the  Behistun  inscription  (one  hun- 
dred and  twelve  long  lines,  the  middle  of  most  of  which  has 
been  rendered  unreadable  on  account  of  the  long-con- 
tinued trickling  of  water  over  them),  together  with  a  com- 
mentary and  an  analysis  of  the  first  thirty-seven  lines. 
"  The  list  of  signs  added  to  the  above  contains  two  hun- 
dred and  forty-six  numbers,  with  the  addition  of  phonetic 
values  (and  also  ideographic),  most  of  which  have  turned 
out  to  be  correct."  In  1852  Rawlinson  was  sent  by  the 
English  Government  as  consul-general  to  Baghdad.  He 
was  given  power  by  the  authorities  of  the  British  Museum 
to  conduct  excavations  wherever  he  found  favourable  sites. 
In  1855  he  returned  to  England,  and  has  since  remained 
there,  with  the  exception  of  a  short  diplomatic  trip  to  Per- 
sia in  1858. 

"  The  year  1857  is  memorable  in  the  annals  of  As- 
syriology.  In  that  year  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  of  Lon- 
don proposed  a  test  of  the  genuine  character  of  the  transla- 
tions offered  by  scholars  of  the  Assyrian  inscriptions.  It 
was  as  follows:  Eight  hundred  lines  of  cuneiform  writing, 
recently  found  by  Layard  on  clay  cylinders,  at  Qal'at  Sher- 
kat,  not  far  from  the  site  of  Nineveh,  were  to  be  inde- 
pendently translated  by  any  scholars  who  would  come  for- 
ward and  accept  the  proposal;  the  results  of  their  work  were 
to  be  sent,  sealed,  to  the  secretary  of  the  society,  and  the 
packets  were  to  be  opened  on  the  same  day  before  a  com- 
mission, which  should  report  on  the  points  of  resemblance 
or  unlikeness  to  be  found  in  the  translations.  This  pro- 
posal was  made  public  in  March,  and  on  May  .2Sth  four 
packets  were  opened,  containing  the  work  of  Sir  Henry 
Rawlinson,  Mr.  Fox  Talbot,  Dr.  Hincks,  and  Dr.  Oppert. 
The  general  similarity  of  the  results  in  the  four  essays 
formed  a  strong  confirmation  of  the  genuineness  of  the  trans- 


XXX       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

lations  and  the  correctness  of  the  method  of  decipherment, 
which  even  such  a  sceptic  as  M.  Renan  freely  admitted." 

Henry  Rawlinson  is,  in  every  sense  of  the  word,  the 
"  Father  of  Assyriology."  He  was  the  first  to  make  the  dis- 
covery of  an  inscription  of  any  length  and  importance,  and 
he  was  the  first  to  translate  an  Assyrian  inscription.  His 
discoveries,  although  somewhat  dependent  on  those  of 
Grotefend,  were  on  the  other  hand  practically  independent. 

Passing  over  Lowenstern,  de  Saulcy,  Longperier,  and 
others,  we  come  to  the  Irishman,  Edward  Hincks  (died 
December  3,  1866,  at  Killeleagh,  County  Down,  Ireland). 
In  1849  Hincks  read  a  paper  before  the  Irish  Academy  on 
the  Khorsabad  inscriptions,  in  which  he  dealt  chiefly  with 
the  ideograms  of  the  Assyro-Babylonian,  and  with  the 
chronology  of  the  Assyrians.  In  1856  an  appendix  to  the 
foregoing,  containing  "  Addenda  and  Corrigenda,"  was 
printed.  In  all  probability  this  appendix  was  printed  in  1850, 
but  the  complete  volume  of  the  "  Transactions  "  of  the 
Academy  did  not  appear  until  1855.  The  most  important 
discovery  in  this  appendix  is  that  the  so-called  Homo- 
phones— i.  e.,  signs  with  the  same  value — for  the  single 
consonants  were  in  reality  different  signs,  some  of  which 
had  a  vowel  before  them  and  others  a  vowel  after  them;  or, 
to  be  more  explicit,  in  the  case  of  the  seven  accepted  signs 
for  the  consonant  b,  the  values  ab,  ib,  ub,  ba,  bi,  be,  and  bu 
were  to  be  sharply  distinguished  from  each  other.  This 
was  a  great  gain  for  the  decipherment  of  the  Assyrian. 
The  list  of  signs  was,  on  account  of  this  discovery,  quite 
different  from  the  one  proposed  by  de  Saulcy  and  by 
Hincks  himself  in  his  earlier  writings.  The  phonetic  com- 
plement was  discovered  independently  by  both  Hincks  and 
Rawlinson.  This  so-called  complement  is  a  sign  attached 
to  an  ideogram  to  indicate  the  reading  of  the  ideogram, 
e.  g.,  IS.  KU  =  both  kakku  and  tukultu.  When  the  ideo- 
gram is  to  be  read  tukultu,  we  have,  in  almost  every  case, 
the  phonetic  complement  tu,  ti,  or  ta  added  to  the  IS.  KU 
to  indicate  this  reading.  The  compound  syllabic  values 
-were  first  noted  by  Hincks — viz.,  signs  having  values  con- 


INTRODUCTION  xxxi 

sisting  of  a  consonant  +  a  vowel  +  a  consonant,  as  dan 
(  =  da  +  an),  bul  (  =  bu  +  ul),  etc.  The  so-called  "allo- 
phones,"  or  "  polyphones  " — i.  e.,  characters  that  can  be 
read  in  two  or  more  different  ways;  e.  g.,  dan,  kal,  lab, 
rib,  all  values  of  one  sign — were  first  observed  by  Rawlin- 
son.    Cf.  also  u-u-kit,  to  be  read  u-sham-kit. 

With  Hommel,  the  history  of  the  investigations  from 
1 85 1  on  can  be  divided  into  two  periods,  with  Hincks  and 
Oppert  as  the  leaders  of  the  first.  During  this  period  all 
that  had  been  done  before  was  arranged  philologically,  and 
new  facts  gathered  from  new  inscriptions  were  added  to 
those  already  known.  In  1868,  1870,  and  1872  appeared 
the  first  three  volumes  of  Edwin  Norris's  "  Assyrian  Dic- 
tionary." During  this  time  Volumes  I  to  IV  of  "  The 
Cuneiform  Inscriptions  of  Western  Asia  "  were  published 
by  Rawlinson,  Norris,  and  George  Smith. 

Schrader,  the  father  of  Assyriology  in  Germany,  may 
be  regarded  as  the  connecting  link  between  these  two 
periods,  belonging  neither  to  the  first  nor  to  the  second. 
His  great  service  to  the  science  has  been  from  the  stand- 
point of  history  and  not  of  philology. 

The  second  period  begins  with  Friedrich  Delitzsch  and 
continues  to  the  present  time.  The  characteristic  feature 
of  this  period  is  the  close  and  strictly  philological  work 
done  by  Delitzsch  and  his  school.  When  Delitzsch  com- 
menced the  study  of  Assyrian,  "  Assyriology  was  in  a  state 
of  slavish  dependence  on  Arabic  lexicography."  He  soon 
became  convinced  that  Arabic  was  not  so  important  to  the 
study  of  Assyrian  as  the  north  Semitic  languages,  the 
Hebrew  and  the  Aramaic  dialects.  He  was  the  first  to  make 
any  real  attempt  to  explain  the  vocabulary  of  the  Assyrians 
by  means  of  the  usage  of  words  in  the  Assyrian  texts.  In 
other  words,  instead  of  slavishly  following  the  lexicons  of 
the  Arabic,  Hebrew,  etc.,  and  giving  Arabic  meanings  to 
roots  in  Assyrian  containing  the  same  radicals,  he  studied 
the  language  from  its  own  literature,  calling  the  cognates 
to  his  assistance  only  when  it  was  necessary.  All  the  his- 
torical inscriptions  have  been  retranslated  and  explained 


xxxii    ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

philologically.  Much  good  work  has  been  done  in  the 
mythical  texts  (Haupt,  Jensen);  the  religious  literature 
(Zimmern,  Tallqvist,  Sayce,  etc.);  the  contract  tablets 
(Strassmaier,  Tallqvist,  Peiser,  and  others);  syllabaries  (De- 
litzsch);  astronomical  tablets  (Oppert,  Sayce,  Epping, 
Strassmaier,  and  Thompson);  letters  (Smith,  Delitzsch, 
and  others).    There  still  remains  a  great  deal  to  be  done. 

Land  and  People. — It  is  very  difficult  to  define  the  exact 
boundaries  of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  since  these  varied  so 
greatly  at  different  periods  in  their  history  In  general,  we 
may  say  that  they  occupied  the  region  watered  by  the  Tigris 
and  Euphrates  Rivers.  Babylonia  lay  to  the  south  and  oc- 
cupied the  alluvial  plain  between  the  two  rivers  from  the 
point  where  they  most  nearly  approach  each  other  on 
the  north  to  the  Persian  Gulf  on  the  south.  Her  natural 
boundaries  were  the  Tigris  on  the  east,  the  Arabian  Desert 
on  the  west,  the  Persian  Gulf  on  the  south,  and  the  Assyrian 
highlands  on  the  north.  The  length  of  Babylonia  was 
about  three  hundred  miles;  the  greatest  breadth  about  one 
hundred  and  twenty-five  miles;  the  area  about  twenty-five 
thousand  square  miles.  The  boundaries  of  Assyria  were  the 
mountain  chains  of  Armenia  and  Kurdistan  on  the  north 
and  east.  Babylonia  on  the  south,  and  the  country  watered 
by  the  Tigris  on  the  west.  The  area  of  Assyria  was  about 
seventy-five  thousand  square  miles — ^about  three  hundred 
and  fifty  miles  in  length,  and  varying  in  breadth  from  one 
hundred  and  seventy-five  to  three  hundred  miles. 

The  Tigris  and  Euphrates  Rivers  were  the  chief  phys- 
ical features  of  these  countries.  The  part  of  Assyria  to  the 
east  of  the  Tigris  was  rough.  It  was,  however,  well  sup- 
plied with  water  and  very  fertile.  The  part  to  the  west 
was  larger  in  extent,  but  poorly  watered  and  barren.  The 
whole  of  Babylonia  was  well  watered  by  the  rivers  and 
a  fine  system  of  canals,  and  the  fertility  of  the  country  has 
received  much  comment  from  both  Oriental  and  classical 
writers. 

The  principal  cities  of  Babylonia  were  Eridu  (Abu- 
Shahrein),    Ur    (Mugheir),    Larsa    (Senkereh),     Erech 


INTRODUCTION  xxxiii 

(Warka),  Shirpuria  or  Lagash  (Tello),  Isin  and  Mam  (the 
sites  of  which  have  not  yet  been  identified),  in  the  south; 
and  Babylon  (near  Hilleh),  Borsippa  (Birs  Nimrud),  Kutha 
(Tel-Ibrahim),  Sippar  (Abu  Habba),  Kish,  Nippur  (Niffer, 
Nufar),  and  Agade  in  the  north. 

The  chief  cities  of  Assyria  were  Asshur  (Qal'at  Sher- 
kat),  its  earliest  capital;  Nineveh  (Kouyunjik  and  Nebbi- 
Yunus),  Calah  (Nimrud),  Dur-Shargina  (Khorsabad),  Ar- 
ba'il  (Arbela),  Imgur-Bel  (Tel-Balawat),  and  Tarbis  (Sherif- 
Khan).  Asshur  was  the  only  city  of  importance  on  the 
western  side  of  the  Tigris. 

The  Babylonians  and  Assyrians  were  Semites,  and  more 
closely  allied  to  the  northern  group  than  to  the  southern. 
The  home  of  the  Semites  is  still  a  disputed  question.  No 
definite  statement  can  be  made  about  the  time  when  they 
settled  in  southern  Babylonia,  nor  do  we  know  the  region 
from  which  they  came.  The  southern  part  of  the  Mesopo- 
tamian  Valley  seems  to  have  been  occupied  before  the 
arrival  of  the  Babylonians  by  a  non-Semitic  people  whom 
we  may  designate  as  Sumerians.  The  Semitic  Babylonians 
gradually  dispossessed  this  people,  adopting,  in  a  great 
measure,  their  religion  and  gods,  their  customs  and  their 
script,  the  so-called  cuneiform.  The  Babylonians  were  a 
mixed  type.  They  were  small  of  stature  and  of  a  peaceful 
disposition,  preferring  agriculture  and  trade  to  the  pur- 
suit of  war.  The  Assyrians  were  a  purer  Semitic  type, 
larger,  fiercer,  more  brutal,  and  more  warlike.  The  Baby- 
lonians were  very  religious  and  extremely  superstitious, 
with  a  large  number  of  gods  and  demons.  The  Assyrians 
were  religious  but  less  superstitious.  Their  religion  was 
derived  from  the  Babylonians,  but  it  was  early  modified 
and  nationalized  by  them.  Ashur,  their  national  god,  who 
gave  his  name  to  both  city  and  country,  was  set  above  all 
the  Babylonian  deities.  It  was  with  his  troops  and  under 
his  protection  that  the  Assyrian  monarchs  made  war 
against  his  enemies.  The  other  gods  of  the  Assyrian  Pan- 
theon were  subordinated  to  him,  each  one,  however,  re- 
ceiving due  honour  and  position. 


xxxiv  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

The  Babylonians  were  a  literary  people,  and  made  g^eat 
use  of  the  non-Semitic  literature  of  their  Sumerian  prede- 
cessors. The  Assyrians,  on  the  other  hand,  were  not  liter- 
ary, and  with  the  exception  of  the  Historical  Inscrip- 
tions, which  can  hardly  be  called  literature,  they  have 
left  us  very  little.  They  were,  however,  great  coypists  and 
editors,  and  they  appropriated  to  themselves  the  literature 
of  their  more  original,  cultured,  and  learned  relatives  in 
the  south.  In  fact,  our  knowledge  of  Babylonian  literature 
is  due,  in  great  part,  to  the  Assyrian  copies  made  in  the 
time  of  their  great  king,  Ashurbanipal. 

The  language  of  the  two  peoples  is  generally  referred 
to  as  Assyrian.  It  is  Semitic  and  more  closely  related  to 
the  Phoenician,  Aramaic,  and  Hebrew  of  the  northern 
group  than  to  the  Arabic  of  the  southern.  The  Babylo- 
nians pronounced  a  few  consonants  in  a  way  different  from 
the  Assyrians.  These  differences  were  not  of  enough  im- 
portance to  warrant  the  distinction  of  two  dialects.  As 
stated  above,  both  Babylonians  and  Assyrians  made  use 
of  the  non-Semitic  Sumerian  script,  and  hence  their 
method  of  writing  differed  from  the  other  Semitic  peoples 
in  being  ideographic  and  syllabic  rather  than  alphabetic. 

The  materials  on  which  the  literature  of  Babylonia  and 
Assyria  is  written  are  clay,  stone,  and  metal.  The  most 
common  material  was  clay,  which  was  carefully  selected  by 
the  scribes  so  as  to  be  free  from  sand.  It  was  washed  and 
rolled,  and  then  cut  and  pressed  into  the  various  sizes  de- 
sired by  the  scribes.  "  For  writing,  a  stick  of  boxwood 
was  used,  one  end  of  which  was  cut  into  an  exact  square; 
this  end  of  the  stylus  was  cut  away  obliquely,  so  that  one 
of  the  corners  of  the  end  formed  a  somewhat  acute  angle. 
The  stylus  was  held  like  a  pen,  and  the  pressure  was  applied 
chiefly  to  the  upper  edge  in  the  direction  of  the  point, 
with  a  slight  inclination  toward  the  left.  When  the  tablet 
was  very  large,  small  wooden  pegs  were  inserted  into  the 
blank  spaces  of  the  inscribed  side  before  turning,  in  order 
to  prevent  obliteration  of  the  writing.  These  pegs  were 
consumed  during  the  process  of  baking.    After  the  writing 


INTRODUCTION  xxxv 

was  finished  the  tablet  was  dried  by  exposing  it  to  the  sun 
for  a  day  or  two.  About  a  week  after  drying  it  was  placed 
in  the  oven,  probably  protected  by  some  earthen  case  to 
preserve  its  coming  in  direct  contact  with  the  flame" 
(Haupt). 

Some  of  the  Assyrian  Historical  Inscriptions  are  en- 
graved on  slabs,  monuments,  bulls,  lions,  etc.  Others  are 
written  with  the  stylus  on  prismoids  and  cylinders.  The 
Babylonian  Historical  Inscriptions  were  generally  writ- 
ten on  the  so-called  Barrel-cylinders.  An  important  ex- 
ception is  the  East  India  House  Inscription  of  Nebuchad- 
rezzar, which  was  cut  in  stone.  But  clay  was  the  most 
common  writing  material. 

The  Historical  Inscriptions. — The  Historical  Inscrip- 
tions of  Babylonia  and  Assyria  are  not  literature  in  any 
true  sense  of  the  term.  The  Assyrian  deal  chiefly  with 
campaigns  and  lists  of  cities  and  peoples  captured,  the 
booty  taken,  the  treatment  of  the  prisoners,  and  the  tribute 
and  taxes  imposed  on  the  conquered  countries.  The  Baby- 
lonian, on  the  other  hancf,  with  few  exceptions,  make  no 
mention  of  the  wars  and  campaigns  of  the  king,  but  give 
elaborate  accounts  of  his  building  and  repairing  cities,  tem- 
ples, palaces,  walls,  streets,  canals,  etc.  The  Royal  Inscrip- 
tions of  the  Assyrians  may  be  divided  into  three  classes: 
Annals;  History  of  Wars;  and  what  may  be  called  Lauda- 
tory texts.  It  may  be  noted  that  the  first  two  classes  are 
also  Laudatory. 

I.  The  Annals  correspond,  in  some  degree,  to  the 
Books  of  Kings.  The  events  of  each  year  of  the  reign  of 
a  king  are  related  in  chronological  order.  There  are  not 
many  such  texts.  The  most  complete  is  the  Black  Obelisk 
Inscription  of  Shalmaneser  II,  which  deals  in  regular  order 
with  the  events  of  thirty-one  years.  The  Annals  of  Sargon 
II  and  those  of  Ashurna9irpal  are  the  next  in  importance. 
The  first  has  to  do  with  fourteen  years,  and  the  second  with 
seventeen.  The  Annals  of  Tiglath-pileser  III  cover  seven- 
teen years,  but  they  are  very  poorly  preserved.  The  Prism 
Inscription  of  Tiglath-pileser  I  is  so  arranged  for  five  years. 


xxxvi  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

These  Annals  are  a  most  important  source  of  information. 
They  are,  in  fact,  good  native  histories. 

2,  The  War  Texts  deal  with  periods  rather  than  years, 
as  some  of  the  wars  cover  many  years.  As  a  rule  these 
wars  are  arranged  chronologically.  In  some  cases,  how- 
ever, the  arrangement  is  geographical.  Here  belong  the 
Monolith  of  Shamshi-Ramman  IV,  the  Taylor  Cylinder  of 
Sennacherib,  which  describes  eight  expeditions,  the  third 
of  which  was  against  Hezekiah  of  Judah,  and  the  different 
cylinders  of  Ashurbanipal. 

3.  Those  who  are  hostile  to  the  Assyrian  school  of 
history  are  inclined  to  lay  great  stress  on  the  so-called 
Laudatory  texts.  In  fact,  they  would  have  only  one  classi- 
fication, and  all  the  Royal  Texts  would  fall  under  the  head- 
ing Laudatory  texts.  There  are  many  of  these.  A  single 
example  will  be  sufficient:  "  Sargon,  the  governor  of  Bel, 
the  exalted  priest  of  Ashur,  the  darling  of  Anu  and  Dagan, 
the  great  king,  the  powerful  king,  the  king  of  the  world, 
the  King  of  Assyria,  the  king  of  the  four  quarters  of  the 
world,  the  favourite  of  the  great  gods,  the  legitimate  ruler, 
to  whom  Ashur  and  Marduk  granted  a  kingdom  without 
equal,  and  the  fame  of  whose  name  they  sent  forth  to  the 
ends  of  the  earth,  etc."  These  texts  become  very  monot- 
onous, but  we  must  take  into  consideration  the  fact  that 
their  authors  were  Semites,  Orientals,  who  delight  in  ex- 
aggeration, and  also  that  these  great  Assyrian  kings  were 
really  lords  of  almost  all  the  territory  known  to  them. 
How  insignificant  were  the  Hebrews  as  a  temporal  power 
when  compared  with  the  Assyrians  and  Babylonians! 
Esarhaddon  ruled  over  Assyria,  Babylonia,  the  Hittites,  the 
West  Country,  Egypt,  and  some  of  the  islands  of  the 
Mediterranean.  Such  a  king  had  the  right  to  use  extrava- 
gant language.  In  these  Laudatory  texts  we  find  only  one 
side  of  the  history  of  an  event.  Victories  are  related  and 
defeats  suppressed.  These  inscriptions  are,  nevertheless, 
of  great  importance  for  the  history  of  Assyria. 

.  The  Royal  Inscriptions  of  the  Babylonians  are  chiefly 
concerned  with  buildings  and  pious  deeds.    Compare,  how- 


INTRODUCTION  xxxvii 

ever,  the  Annals  of  Nabonidus  and  the  Cylinder  of  Cyrus. 
The  latter  relates  the  capture  of  Babylon,  the  restoration 
of  the  shrines  and  city,  and  the  pacific  policy  adopted  by 
the  captor. 

The  trilingual  inscriptions  of  the  Achaemenian  kings, 
apart  from  their  first  gfreat  service  in  the  field  of  philology, 
furnish  the  historian  with  important  data.  They  recount 
deeds  of  valour  and  building  enterprises  of  the  Persian 
monarchs.  Along  with  frequent  genealogical  references, 
there  are  some  important  lists.  In  the  great  Inscription 
of  Darius  we  have  a  vivid  picture  of  the  uprisings  during 
the  troublous  times  in  the  early  part  of  the  monarch's 
reign.  The  literary  style  of  these  inscriptions  differs  greatly 
from  that  of  the  historical  inscriptions  of  the  classical  period, 
and  some  of  the  more  general  marks  of  distinction  can  be 
seen  even  in  a  translation. 

In  addition  to  the  Wars  of  the  Assyrian  Historical  In- 
scriptions and  the  Buildings  of  the  Babylonian,  we  find 
other  interesting  particulars.  Most  of  the  Assyrian  In- 
scriptions begin  with  an  invocation  to  the  gods  which  is 
followed  by  a  long  list  of  the  titles  and  attributes  of  the 
king.  They  close  with  a  request  to  the  gods  to  bless  those 
who  look  after  their  inscriptions  and  to  curse  those  who  do 
not.  The  Babylonian,  on  the  other  hand,  introduce  the 
king,  and  after  a  recital  of  his  buildings  and  pious  works, 
close  with  a  fervent  prayer  for  offspring,  power,  and  a  long 
reign. 

Among  other  very  important  sources  of  historical  infor- 
mation may  be  mentioned: 

First,  the  Lists  of  Babylonian  kings.  As  yet  these  lists 
are  very  fragmentary,  and  hence  their  value  is  not  con- 
siderable. They  give  us,  however,  the  names  of  the  kings 
of  two  or  three  dynasties  in  their  regular  order  and  add 
a  few  general  remarks  in  regard  to  them.  Rassam  obtained 
a  tablet  at  Babylon  containing  three  hundred  to  three  hun- 
dred and  fifty  names  of  kings,  but  this  tablet  is  so  poorly 
preserved  that  only  thirty  of  these  names  are  legible. 
Among  these,  however,  is  to  be  found  the  name  of  the 


xxxviii  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

celebrated  Hammurabi.  The  greater  part  of  his  dynasty 
follows,  with  the  number  of  years  of  the  reign  of  each  king. 
Second,  the  so-called  Eponym  Lists,  of  the  Assyrian 
Eponym  Canon.  Compare,  for  a  full  discussion  of  this 
source  of  information,  George  Smith's  "  Assyrian  Eponym 
Canon,"  from  which  I  quote  freely.  "  In  Assyria  the  prac- 
tice of  dating  documents  according  to  the  regnal  years  of 
the  reigning  monarchs  was  seldom  used,  by  far  the  greater 
number  of  inscriptions  being  dated  by  the  names  of  cer- 
tain officers  called  by  the  Assyrians  limmu — a  word  which, 
by  general  consent,  is  translated  '  eponym.'  The  Assyrian 
limmu  or  eponyms  were  appointed  according  to  a  general 
rotation;  and  each  one  in  succession  held  office  for  a  year 
and  gave  name  to  that  year,  the  usage  of  the  Assyrians  in 
this  respect  being  similar  to  the  archons  at  Athens  and  the 
consuls  at  Rome.  Originally  the  majority  of  the  As- 
syrian eponyms  were  governors  of  the  principal  towns  and 
districts,  and  this  leads  to  the  inference  that  the  eponyms 
were  an  institution  dating  from  the  time  when  Assyria  con- 
sisted of  a  confederacy  of  small  states,  before  the  rise  of  the 
Assyrian  Empire.  This  would  make  the  eponyms  very 
ancient,  their  foundation  probably  being  as  early  as  2000 
B.  c."  There  were  altogether  about  thirty  functionaries, 
officers  and  governors,  who  held  the  right  of  being 
eponyms;  and  it  is  probable  that  when  all  had  served  their 
terms,  the  king  took  a  second  eponymy  and  started  the 
series  afresh.  Sir  Henry  Rawlinson  was  the  discoverer  of 
the  so-called  Eponym  Canon  tablets.  He  found  them 
among  the  tablets  brought  by  Layard  from  Nineveh.  He 
first  described  his  discovery  in  the  "  London  Athenasum," 
Nos.  1805  and  1812,  May  30  and  July  19,  1862.  He  dis- 
tinguished four  copies  of  the  Assyrian  Canon,  all  imperfect, 
which  he  numbered  I,  II,  III,  IV,  but,  since  his  discovery 
of  these,  several  new  fragments  have  been  found.  All  of 
these  documents,  so  far  as  they  are  preserved,  closely  agree. 
Some  contain  lists  of  the  eponyms  in  their  chronological 
order,  and  others  add  to  these  names  the  titles  of  the 
eponyms  and  short  notices  of  the  principal  events  during 


INTRODUCTION  xxxix 

their  terms  of  office.  Lists  have  been  preserved  from  the 
time  of  Ramman-Nirari  II  (911-890  b.  c.)  down  to  the 
reign  of  Ashurbanipal  (669-625  b.  c). 

Third,  the  so-called  Synchronous  Tablets — i.  e.,  tables 
giving  a  short  account  of  the  relations  of  Babylonia  and 
Assyria.  This  synchronous  history  of  Assyria  and  Baby- 
Ionia  is  of  great  importance,  and  is  thoroughly  trustworthy. 
It  is  written  by  an  Assyrian  rather  than  a  Babylonian,  and 
hence  the  colouring  is  Assyrian.  It  deals  with  the  relations 
of  the  two  countries  between  the  middle  of  the  fifteenth 
and  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century,  and  from  the  mid- 
dle of  the  thirteenth  to  the  beginning  of  the  eleventh. 

Fourth,  the  Babylonian  Chronicle,  which  furnishes  simi- 
lar information  for  the  period  from  about  775  to  669  b.  c. 

There  is  also  much  history  to  be  found  in  the  Letters, 
Contracts,  Boundary  Stones,  Prayers  to  the  Sun-God,  and 
other  inscriptions  which  are  not  classified  as  historical. 

The  T el-el- Amarna  Letters. — Egypt  has  always  been 
full  of  surprises  for  the  archaeologist,  but  none  has  been 
more  startling  than  the  discovery,  within  her  confines,  of  a 
collection  of  tablets  inscribed  in  the  language  and  lan- 
guages hitherto  supposed  to  belong  almost  exclusively  to 
Mesopotamia  and  Babylonia. 

As  may  be  imagined,  these  tablets  created  a  great  sen- 
sation among  Assyriologists.  They  have  been  found  to 
consist  chiefly  of  letters  and  despatches  to  two  Egyptian 
kings,  whose  names  in  these  inscriptions  are  Nimmuriya 
and  Naphuriya.  The  Nimmuriya  or  Mimmuriya — and 
even  Immuriya  occurs — is  to  be  identified  with  Amenophis 
III.  We  have  the  following  from  a  letter  of  Tushratta  to 
Amenophis  IV:  "  And  now  I  say  that  just  as  I  was  in 
friendship  with  Mimmuriya,  thy  father,  so  also  will  I  be 
more  than  ten  times  so  with  Naphuriya."  Naphuriya  is 
certainly  to  be  identified  with  Amenophis  IV,  and  is  to  be 
regarded  as  the  Babylonian  form  of  Nefer-Cheperu-Ra,  and 
Mimmuriya  as  the  father  of  Amenophis  IV,  and  not  the 
grandfather.  Professor  Erman,  of  Berlin,  was  the  first 
authority  to  identify  these  two  names  with  the  Third  and 


Xl  ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Fourth  Amenophises  of  the  eighteenth  dynasty — viz.,  Neb- 
ma-ra  and  Nefer-Cheperu-Ra.  Several  of  these  letters  refer 
to  the  wife  of  Amenophis  III — i.  e.,  the  mother  of  Ameno- 
phis  IV,  viz.,  Queen  Te-i-e.  Again,  several  are  simply 
addressed  to  the  "  King  of  Egypt,"  without  any  further 
designation.  These  would  fall,  however,  within  the  time 
of  the  two  Amenophises. 

From  the  time  of  Thothmes  III,  southwestern  Asia  had 
been  subject  to  the  monarchs  of  Egypt.  This  supremacy 
had  resulted  in  numerous  friendly  and  many  domestic  ties, 
in  close  commercial  relations,  and  in  many  political  en- 
tanglements of  a  serious  nature.  In  the  administration  of 
their  Asiatic  possessions  these  kings  conducted  an  exten- 
sive correspondence.  The  documents  found  in  this  collec- 
tion hail  from  these,  among  other  places:  one  from  Burra- 
buriash.  King  of  Karduniash  ( ^  Bumaburiash,  King  of 
Babylon),  to  Amenophis  IV;  one  from  the  King  of 
Alashiya  to  the  King  of  Egypt;  letters  from  Tushratta, 
King  of  Mitani,  to  Amenophis  III  of  Egypt.  We  have 
also  letters  from  the  PhcEnician  and  Syrian  cities  of  Byblos, 
Beyrut,  Tyre,  Accho;  letters  from  these  among  other  indi- 
viduals in  Phoenicia  and  Syria — viz.,  Abd-Ashirta,  Aziru, 
Shubandi.  Palestinian  cities  also  contribute  a  number  of 
interesting  letters.  Of  these  we  note  especially  those  from 
the  governor  of  Gezer,  the  governor  of  Ashkelon,  from 
Ursa,  and  six  from  Jerusalem. 

These  and  many  others  give  us  a  picture  of  the  social 
and  political  status  of  western  Asia  in  a  period  about  which 
we  formerly  knew  Uttle.  We  learn  that,  in  spite  of  domestic 
ties  and  close  commercial  relations,  the  faithful  subjects 
of  Egypt  were  hard  pressed  by  the  enemies  of  Egypt's 
crown.  The  cries  for  help  found  in  these  letters  show  us 
that  the  day  was  not  far  distant  when  Egypt  should  be  com- 
pelled either  to  strengthen  her  Asiatic  garrisons  and  for- 
tresses, or  to  surrender  her  claims  on  Asiatic  territory. 

No  less  interesting  are  the  marriage  contracts  between 
the  royal  families  of  Egypt  and  Asia.  The  results  of  these, 
as  seen  in  the  career  of  Amenophis  IV,  influenced  and 


IKTRODUCTION  xli 

finally  determined  every  other  relation  between  the  con- 
tracting peoples.  In  fact,  the  one  cause  of  the  unpopular- 
ity of  Amenophis  IV,  of  his  withdrawal  from  Thebes,  and 
construction  of  his  city,  temple,  and  palace  on  the  site 
of  the  modem  Tel-el-Amama,  was  his  undisguised  prefer- 
ence for  Asiatic  gods  and  worship,  and  for  the  peoples  of 
the  land  of  his  wife,  who  was  an  Asiatic  princess. 

These  tablets  are  peculiar  in  size,  shape,  and  style  of 
writing.  The  clay  of  which  they  are  made  is  different  from 
that  found  in  other  Babylonian  tablets,  being  coarse  and 
gritty  as  a  rule.  The  kind  of  clay  of  which  a  tablet  is  made 
often  plays  an  important  part  in  indicating  the  country 
from  which  it  came.  Bezold  and  Budge  say  that  "  in 
colour  the  tablets  vary  from  a  light  to  a  dark  dust  tint,  and 
from  a  flesh  colour  to  dark  brick-red.  Only  a  few  of 
them  have  been  baked.  The  others  are  all  sun-dried." 
In  form  the  majority  are  rectangular,  but  some  are  oval. 
Some  are  flat  on  both  sides  and  others  convex.  In  a 
great  many  cases  the  writing  is  careless,  and  only  one 
side  of  the  tablet  is  inscribed.  Many  different  styles  of 
writing  are  used,  including  every  class  and  variety  of  form 
of  cuneiform  characters  known,  with  the  exception  of 
the  complicated  characters  found  in  some  of  the  old  Baby- 
lonian texts.  Budge  and  Bezold  describe  it  as  follows: 
"  The  writing  on  the  Tel-el-Amarna  tablets  resembles,  to 
a  certain  extent,  the  Neo- Babylonian — i.  e.,  the  simplifi- 
cation of  the  writing  of  the  first  Babylonian  Empire, 
used  commonly  in  Babylonia  and  Assyria  for  about  seven 
centuries  b.  c.  It  possesses,  however,  characteristics  dif- 
ferent from  those  of  any  other  style  of  cuneiform  of  any 
period  now  known  to  exist;  and  nearly  every  tablet  con- 
tains forms  of  characters  which  have  hitherto  been  thought 
peculiar  to  the  Ninevite  or  Assyrian  style  of  writing." 
Very  often  the  characters  resemble  those  on  the  so-called 
Cappadocian  tablets  which  have  been  described  by  Sayce. 
They  belong  to  the  fifteenth  century,  and  they  antedate 
the  birth  of  Moses  at  least  one  hundred  years.  There  are 
a  few  of  these  Cappadocian  tablets  in  the  University  of 


xlii       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Pennsylvania  collection,  purchased  by  Mr.  Peters  in  Con- 
stantinople. 

Again,  the  language  of  these  inscriptions  is  peculiar. 
It  is  not  good  Babylonian.  It  is  forced  and  often  contains 
non-Semitic  words  and  constructions.  Bezold  and  Budge 
say,  "  It  supplies  a  number  of  new  words  and  forms,  and 
exhibits  peculiar  grammatical  constructions,  the  existence 
of  which  has  been  hitherto  unsuspected,  and  which  have 
a  close  affinity  to  the  language  of  the  Old  Testament." 
In  other  words,  Babylonian  was  the  lingua  franca,  the 
diplomatic  language  of  western  Asia  and  also  of  Egypt. 
Some  of  them,  however,  are  written  in  very  poor  Baby- 
lonian. 

But  this  is  not  all.  Some  of  the  tablets  from  Mitani, 
which  must  be  located  in  Mesopotamia,  just  east  of  Car- 
chemish,  the  capital  of  the  Hittite  empire,  were  written 
in  Babylonian,  and  others  in  an  altogether  different  lan- 
guage. The  first  to  notice  this  different  language  was  the 
indefatigable  Sayce,  who  has  been  from  the  first  a  pioneer 
in  the  decipherment  of  cuneiform  and  Hittite  inscriptions. 
In  the  January  "Academy,"  1890,  p.  64,  he  calls  attention  to 
the  "language  of  Mitannu."  Some  of  these  tablets  are 
written  in  a  non-Semitic  language,  but  with  the  cuneiform 
characters,  just  as  a  great  many  people  write  German  letters 
or  despatches  in  the  Latin  script.  I  think  that  this  is  one 
of  the  most  interesting  points  connected  with  these  Tel-el- 
Amarna  tablets.  In  the  fifth  volume,  second  and  third 
numbers  (August,  1890),  of  the  "  Zeitschrift  fiir  Assjrri- 
ologie,"  this  so-called  Mitani  language  has  been  discussed 
by  Jensen,  Briinnow,  and  Sayce. 

In  these  texts  we  find  the  peculiarity  of  dividing  words 
at  the  end  of  a  line.  These  divisions  are  of  the  rarest 
occurrence  in  other  Babylonian  tablets.  The  whole  sub- 
ject of  language  has  been  taken  up  most  thoroughly  by 
Dr.  Bezold  in  his  book  on  "Oriental  Diplomacy." 

Editions  of  these  texts  have  been  published  by  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Berlin  and  British  Museums;  Dr.  Carl 
Bezold  has,  under  the  title  "  Oriental  Diplomacy  "  (1893), 


INTRODUCTION  xliii 

published  the  texts  of  the  latter  museum  in  transliteration, 
with  summaries  of  their  contents,  a  grammatical  analysis, 
and  a  glossary;  and  Dr.  Hugo  Winckler,  of  Berlin,  has 
published,  in  Schrader's  "  Keilinschriftliche  Bibliothek," 
the  transliterated  text  with  parallel  translation  of  all  the 
Amarna  tablets. 

Assyrian  and  Babylonian  Letters.^ — The  Assyro-Baby- 
lonian  letter  tablets  that  have  come  down  to  us  comprise 
a  large  number  of  documents  differing  greatly  in  contents 
and  scope.  Most  of  them  owe  their  preservation  to  the  fact 
that  they  formed  part  of  the  royal  or  temple  archives,  and 
for  this  reason  they  are  usually  of  an  official  character. 
Until  recent  years  the  letters  and  despatches  received  rather 
scant  attention.  The  mass  of  cuneiform  literature  rescued 
from  the  ruins  of  ancient  Assyrian  and  Babylonian  cities 
is  of  immense  extent,  while  the  number  of  Assyriologists 
has  never  been  very  large.  For  obvious  reasons,  the  nu- 
merous historical,  religious,  and  grammatical  texts  could 
not  fail  to  excite  deep  interest  and  to  attract  the  zealous 
study  of  Oriental  scholars.  Under  these  circumstances  it 
was  but  natural  that  the  letter  texts,  in  spite  of  their  great 
value,  should  be  neglected  in  favour  of  the  more  important 
inscriptions  just  mentioned. 

The  first  scholar  to  make  use  of  the  epistolary  tablets  was 
George  Smith,  who,  in  the  year  1871,  published  extracts 
from  some  ten  of  them  in  his  "  History  of  Ashurbanipal." 
Historical  writers  like  Hommel  and  Tiele  made  free  use 
in  their  works  of  such  letters  as  were  of  importance  for 
their  subject;  but,  until  the  year  1887,  very  little  was  done 
toward  the  special  study  of  this  branch  of  Assyro-Baby- 
lonian  literatlire.  In  1887-89  an  American,  Mr.  Samuel 
Alden  Smith,  published,  in  the  "  Proceedings  of  the  So- 
ciety of  Biblical  Archaeology,"  and  in  the  second  and  third 
parts  of  his  "  Keilschrifttexte  Asurbanipal's,"  sixty-nine 
texts  copied  from  the  best-preserved  letter  tablets  of  the 
British  Museum,  with  transliteration,  translation,  and  phil- 
ological notes.  Mr.  Smith  unfortunately  lacked  the  neces- 
'  This  section  was  written  by  Prof.  Christopher  Johnston. 


xliv      ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

sary  philological  knowledge,  and  while  he  added  greatly 
to  the  available  material  for  study,  did  very  little  to  eluci- 
date the  subject.  Of  a  widely  different  character  was  the 
work  of  Professor  Friedrich  Delitzsch,  the  founder  of  the 
Leipsic  School  of  Assyriology,  who  published  in  the  "  Bei- 
trage  zur  Assyriologie  "  (iSS^-'gi)  a  series  of  three  papers 
in  which  he  gave  the  transliterated  text  of  forty  letters, 
with  admirable  translations,  and  a  full  commentary.  Very 
many  difficult  forms  and  expressions  are  here  explained  for 
the  first  time,  and  the  effect  of  Professor  Delitzsch's  work 
was  to  provide  a  sure  foundation  for  the  elucidation  of  As- 
syrian and  Babylonian  letters. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  difficulty  in  the  way  of  a  successful 
study  of  the  Letter  texts  was  the  absence  of  sufficient  avail- 
able material  upon  which  to  work.  While  comparatively 
few  of  these  texts  were  published,  and  while  the  great  mass 
of  those  in  the  British  Museum  were  not  even  catalogued 
according  to  their  contents,  the  task  was  a  hopeless  one; 
but  the  difficulty  has  happily  been  removed.  The  cata- 
logue of  the  Kouyunjik  Collection  prepared  by  Dr.  Carl 
Bezold,  of  which  the  first  volume  appeared  in  1889,  has 
rendered  it  possible  to  select  these  texts  from  the  many 
thousands  composing  the  collection;  and  an  American 
scholar,  Mr.  Robert  Francis  Harper,  of  the  University 
of  Chicago,  has  been  prompt  to  take  advantage  of  the 
fact.  Aided  by  Bezold's  catalogue,  he  has  copied  nearly 
all  of  these  texts,  and  a  portion  of  the  results  of  his  labour 
has  been  given  to  the  world  in  the  four  volumes  of  his 
"  Assyrian  and  Babylonian  Letters  of  the  K  Collection  " 
(i8g2-'g6),  containing  four  hundred  and  thirty-five  care- 
fully edited  letters  derived,  not  only  from  the  K  Collec- 
tion, but  also  from  the  other  collections  of  the  British 
Museum.  The  material  collected  is  far  from  being  ex- 
hausted in  these  volumes.  This  has,  however,  greatly 
stimulated  the  interest  of  Assyriologists  in  the  subject, 
and,  in  addition  to  a  number  of  briefer  communications, 
more  elaborate  articles  upon  the  Assyro-Babylonian  epis- 
tolary literature  have  been  published  in    1896  by   Dr. 


INTRODUCTION  xlv 

George  Ricker  Berry,  of  the  University  of  Chicago,  and  in 
i897-'98  by  the  present  writer. 

For  a  long  time  the  only  letters  known  to  Assyriolo- 
gists  were  those  of  the  Sargonide  period,  but  far  more  an- 
cient texts  are  now  available.  Dr.  Bruno  Meissner  pub- 
lished in  the  "  Beitrage  zur  Assyriologie,"  in  1894,  four 
ancient  Babylonian  letters  from  the  BerUn  collections,  and 
called  attention  to  the  fact  that  a  considerable  number 
of  such  letters  exist  in  the  Berlin  and  British  Museums. 
Many  of  these  are  business  letters  derived  from  the  archives 
of  temples  and  private  banking  firms.  The  Babylonian 
temples,  it  should  be  remembered,  in  addition  to  their 
purely  religious  functions,  were  influential  corporations, 
and  conducted  extensive  commercial  and  industrial  enter- 
prises. Mr.  Leonard  W.  King,  of  the  British  Museum, 
published  in  his  book,  "  The  Letters  and  Inscriptions  of 
Hammurabi,"  fifty-six  letters  dating  back  into  the  third 
millennium  b.  c. 

The  most  important  letter  texts  of  the  pre-Sargonide 
period  are  undoubtedly  the  tablets  found  at  Tel-el-Amarna 
in  Upper  Egypt,  in  the  winter  of  i887-'88.  They  consist 
of  letters  and  despatches  addressed  to  Amenophis  III,  and 
to  his  son  and  successor  Amenophis  IV,  by  Asiatic  mon- 
archs,  among  them  Burnaburiash,  King  of  Babylon,  and 
Ashur-uballit,  King  of  Assyria,  both  previously  known 
from  the  cuneiform  inscriptions,  and  by  the  prefects  and 
governors  of  a  large  number  of  towns  in  Syria  and 
Phoenicia. 

The  letters  of  the  Sargonide  period  are,  with  few  ex- 
ceptions, of  an  official  character.  They  contain  letters  of 
kings  to  members  of  their  families,  and  to  various  high 
officers  of  the  empire;  reports  of  governors  of  provinces, 
and  of  military  and  civil  officers;  proclamations;  petitions; 
rieports  of  priests  on  omens  terrestrial  and  celestial;  astro- 
nomical reports;  reports  of  physicians  concerning  patients 
under  their  care;  they  represent,  in  short,  nearly  every 
species  of  epistolary  composition.  These  texts,  varying 
in  length  from  six  or  seven  to  sixty  or  seventy  lines,  pro- 

D 


xlvi      ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

ceed  from  a  great  variety  of  writers  of  different  stations  in 
life,  and  come  from  every  part  of  the  great  Assyrian  Em- 
pire. They  are  composed,  not  in  the  classical  language  of 
the  historical  inscriptions  and  the  poetical  texts,  but  in 
the  colloquial  speech  prevailing  at  the  time  they  were 
written.  Much,  of  course,  depends  upon  the  subject-mat- 
ter and  the  personality  of  the  writer.  The  soldier,  the 
priest,  the  physician,  the  astrologer,  has  each  his  technical 
terms  and  his  peculiar  forms  of  expression.  Words  and 
forms  abound  which  are  only  met  with  in  this  branch  of 
cuneiform  literature,  and  the  long  and  flowing  periods  of 
the  classical  texts  are  here  replaced  by  terser  forms  of 
speech.  The  syntactical  construction  is  less  rigid,  while 
the  employment  of  shorter  sentences  and  the  more  fre- 
quent use  of  the  particles  render  the  style  more  vivid  and 
lively.  On  the  importance  of  these  texts  it  is  hardly 
necessary  to  dwell.  When  we  consider  the  unbounded 
enthusiasm  with  which  every  fragment  of  an  ancient 
Roman  or  Greek  inscription  is  received,  and  remember 
that  in  these  letters  we  possess  hundreds  of  original  con- 
temporary documents  whose  authenticity  is  beyond  all 
question,  their  value  to  all  students  of  Assyro-Babylonian 
life  and  history  is  not  easily  over-estimated. 

The  twenty  letters  translated  on  pages  241  to  255  are 
published  in  Harper's  work  referred  to  above.  They  be- 
long to  the  Sargonide  period,  and  have  been  specially  se- 
lected with  regard  to  variety  of  subject  and  style. 

The  Babylonian  Legal  or  Contract  Literature} — ^The  Con- 
tract Tablets  are  from  some  points  of  view  one  of  the  most 
interesting  forms  of  the  Assyro-Babylonian  literature, 
since  they  admit  us  to  the  everyday  life  of  these  pioneers 
in  civilization,  so  that  we  see  them  buying  and  selling, 
marrying  and  giving  in  marriage,  suffering  wrong  and 
going  to  law,  willing  away  and  inheriting  property — in 
short,  their  struggles  and  achievements,  disappointments 
and  sorrows,  loves  and  hates,  are  all  mirrored  here. 

Some  thousands  of  these  documents  have  been  re- 

'  This  section  was  written  by  Prof.  George  A.  Barton. 


INTRODUCTION  xlvii 

covered  and  are  stored  in  the  various  museums  of  the 
world.  The  British  Museum  and  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania possess  the  largest  of  these  collections.  Of  these 
thousands,  comparatively  few  have  been  published,  and  the 
thousands  already  recovered  are  but  a  few  of  those  we  may 
reasonably  expect  the  mounds  of  the  East  to  yield  to  the 
spade  of  the  explorer.  Through  the  labours  of  Strass- 
maier,  Meissner,  and  others,  three  thousand  or  more  of 
these  texts  have  been  published;  and  through  the  efforts 
of  Peiser,  Meissner,  Tallqvist,  and  others,  their  interpre- 
tation has  been  accomplished. 

The  greater  number  of  these  record  the  simple  daily 
acts  of  buying  and  selling  which  form  so  large  a  part  of  the 
life  of  every  civilized  community.  These  sales  include  the 
transfer  of  wheat,  dates,  sesame,  and  such  food-stuffs  from 
their  producers,  the  farmers,  to  dealers  and  consumers; 
the  purchase  and  sale  of  slaves,  houses,  farms,  and  estates. 
Others  record  the  lease  of  various  kinds  of  property,  and 
still  others  will  it  away.  Next  in  number  to  records  of  sales 
are  the  records  of  money  loans.  These  frequently  tell  of 
the  pledging  of  a  slave  or  the  mortgaging  of  a  house  or 
other  piece  of  real  estate  as  security  for  the  loan.  At  times 
business  misfortune  overtook  the  borrower,  and  hence 
we  find  records  of  bankruptcy  among  these  documents. 
Copartnerships  were  formed  for  the  conduct  of  various 
kinds  of  business,  and  the  names  of  the  partners,  the 
amount  contributed  by  each,  the  duties  of  each,  the 
amounts  allowed  them  for  expenses,  and  the  amounts 
finally  drawn  by  each  from  the  profits,  all  find  a  place 
in  this  clay  photograph  of  ancient  Ufe.  Here  too  we  read 
the  guarantees  given  that  certain  goods,  like  a  coat  of 
mail,  will  be  manufactured  by  a  certain  date,  or  that 
others  already  made  will  last  a  certain  time.  In  Babylon, 
as  in  modern  life,  business  was  often  transacted  through 
agents,  and  the  powers  of  attorney  given  to  some  of  these 
to  enable  them  to  act  as  their  principals  have  fallen  into  our 

hands. 

An  important  element  in  Babylonian  life,  as  in  that 


xlviii   ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

of  every  ancient  nation,  was  the  slave  element.  These 
formed  a  portion  of  every  well-to-do  household.  They 
were  freely  bought  and  sold/willed  to  heirs,  and  frequently 
given  as  a  part  of  the  ddwry'  of  brides.  A  slave  could  gaiti 
freedom  either  through  the  kindness  6f  his  iriaster  or 
through  purchase.  Not  a  few  were  permitted  to  engage  in 
business  enterprises  on  their  own  account,  and  thus  se- 
cured the  opportunity  to  gain  the  necessary  purchase 
money.  The  most  cbmirion  method  of  emancipation  was 
the  adoption  of  the  slave  by  his  master;  this  was  often 
done  even  when  the  slave  bought  his  freedom,  as  it  was  the 
simplest  legal  process.  In  the  case  of  women  held  in 
slavery,  marriage  with  their  masters  was  a  pathway  to 
freedom. 

The  position  of  Women  in  ancient  Babylonia  is  clearly 
mirrored  in  these  tablets.  They  could  divorce  their  hus- 
bands if  they  chose,  but  the  penalty  for  so  doing  was 
heavier  than  that  which  in  similar  cases  rested  on  men. 
Sometimes  when  slaves  they  submitted  to  unequal  mar- 
riage contracts,  as  in  VIII,  i,  on  page  269,  in  order  to 
secure  emancipation;  at  times  too  they  were  purchased  by 
their  husbands  (see  VIII,  2,  p.  269),  but  more  often  they 
were  given  dowries  upon  marriage  by  their  fathers  or  some 
relative,  which  placed  them  in  practical  independence,  and 
made  them  almost  coequal  with  their  husbands  in  the 
home.  They  appear  with  their  husbands  as  joint  partners 
in  buying  and  selling,  borrowing  and  loaning.  Married 
women  appear  alone  in  contracts  relating  to  money,  real 
estate,  and  slaves;  they  make  contracts  concerning  mer- 
chandise with  men  not  their  hiisbatids,'  and  appear  in  law- 
suits. In^  spite  of  centuries  of  ba'al  marriage,  some  of  the 
freedom  enjoyed  by  the  primitive  Semitic  women  was  still 
retained.  '  ' 

No  such  institution  as  a  modern  batik  existed  in'  Baby- 
lon, but  for  many  years  its  place  was  supplied  by  a  power- 
ful family  of  money-lenders,  who  bofe  the  name  of  Egibi, 
or  the  "  Sons  of  Egibi."  They  loaned  money  at  high  rates 
of  interest  on  good  security,  and  at  higher  rates  when  the 


INTRODUCTION  xlix 

security  was  poor.  Not  infrequently  they  had  to  take  the 
securities  pledged,  because  the  borrowers  could'  not  pay. 
They  dealt  in  real  estate,,  formed  partnerships  with  various 
men  for  carrying  on  different  kinds  of  business,  they  fur- 
nishing) the,  capital  while  the  other  partners  conducted  the 
active  parts  of  the  enterprise.  The  son  succeeded  the 
father  as  head  of  the  firm,  the  younger  sons  became  sub- 
ordinate partners,  and  the  family  thus  maintained  its  im- 
portance and  power  somewhat  as  the  Rothsdiilds  have  done 
during  the  present  century. ,,  The  tablets  recently  ex- 
humed at  Nippur,  of  which  some  are  translated  below,  re- 
veal the  existence  of  a  similar  firm  there  in  the  reigns  of 
Artaxerxes  I  and  DariUs  II,  known  as  "  Murashu  Sons." 

Not  the  least  interesting  phase  of  Babyldriian  life,  as 
we  see  it  here,  was  the  administration  of  justice.  ■  In  most 
of  the  towns  the  common  Semitic  system  of  judgment  by 
the  "  Elders,"  familiar  to  us  from  the  Old  Testament,  pre- 
vailed. Some  of  the  details  of  the  workings  of  this  system 
are  exhibited  on  page  278  (XIII,  i,  2).  This  was  probably 
the  ordinary  system  at  Babylon,  but  during  the  reign  of 
Nabonidus  (S  55-538  b.  c.)  a  bench  of  eight  judges  was 
organized  there  for  the  administration  of  justice,  'of  which, 
as  a  rule,  six  only  sat  at  one  time.  They  seem  to  have  tried 
all  sorts  of  cases.  The  parties  to  a  suit  appeared  in  person, 
and  seem  to  have  conducted  their  own  cases  without 
counsel.  The  judges — with  no  jury^^-^6nsid6red  the  case 
in  a  body,  and  rendered  a  decision,  which  was  signed  by 
all  of  them  and  the  clerk  of  the  court.  By  the  middle  of 
the  reign  of  Nabonidus  the  business  had  increased  so  that 
two  clerks  were  necessary.  As  the  judges  usually  signed 
their  decisions  in  the  order  of  their  seniority,  we  are  able 
from  these  to  Catch  glimpses  of  them  at  different  times 
through  a  series  of  years,  and  to  learri  something  of  their 
history.  It  appears  that  there  was  a  system  of  tivil-service 
promotion,  or  something  quite  like  it.  A  man  who  in  the 
accession  year  of  Nabonidus  was  clerk  of  the  court,  two 
years  later  had  been  promoted  to  the  bench,  and  risen  once 
there,  so  that  he  occupied  the  fifth  place;  seven  years  later 


1  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

all  his  seniors  had  disappeared,  and  he  was  chief  justice. 
Other  analogous  cases  could  be  cited. 

Most  of  these  legal  matters  have  quite  a  modem  air. 
How  one  man  goes  bail  for  another;  one,  a  creditor,  gets 
an  execution  against  another — ^are  illustrated  in  the  docu- 
ments translated  below  (pp.  280,  281).  Many  other  cases, 
each  illustrating  some  special  point,  might  have  been  given 
had  space  permitted. 

Babylonian  Legends. — The  two  best-known  legends  of 
Babylonian  literature  are  the  "  Account  of  the  Creation  " 
and  the  "Story  of  the  Deluge,"  the  latter  being  incorporated 
in  the  great  national  epic,  the  "  Poem  of  Gilgamesh."  In  the 
"  Account  of  the  Creation  "  and  the  "  Poem  of  Gilgamesh  " 
we  have  the  Babylonian  representations  of  Hesiodic  Theog- 
ony  and  Homeric  heroic  narrative.  The  one,  composed  in 
honour  of  Marduk,  the  chief  god  of  the  Babylonian  pan- 
theon, and  probably  recited  in  public  at  the  great  festival 
of  the  god,  the  Babylonian  New- Year's  Day;  the  other 
written  in  memory  of  a  great  national  hero,  Gilgamesh,  the 
Gilgamos  of  Greek  literature.  There  were  at  least  two 
independent  recensions  of  the  creation  account  current  in 
Babylonia  and  Assyria  during  the  later  period  of  their  his- 
tory— viz.,  the  great  Babylonian  poem  in  seven  parts,  and 
a  second  shorter  version  which  bears  very  little  resemblance 
to  the  former.  In  addition  to  these  two  accounts,  there 
existed  many  variants,  which,  together  with  the  two  ac- 
counts, are  evident  proof  of  the  great  age  of  the  legends; 
an  evidence  strengthened  by  the  traces  which  these  legends 
have  left  in  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  art,  as  well  as  by  the 
more  indirect  references  to  them  in  early  and  later  histori- 
cal inscriptions. 

The  Gilgamesh  epic,  the  Nibelungenlied  of  Babylonia, 
recounts  the  deeds,  exploits,  and  sufferings  of  Gilgamesh, 
the  most  important  heroic  figure  in  Babylonian  mythology. 
His  name,  like  that  of  Odysseus  in  Greek  literature  and 
Siegfried  in  Germanic  mythology,  has  formed  a  centre 
around  which  ancient  stories  and  legends  of  decidedly 
different  nature  and  distinct  origin  clustered  in  course  of 


INTRODUCTION  H 

time.  One  such  legend  is  the  "  Story  of  the  Deluge,"  form- 
ing the  eleventh  tablet  of  the  whole  Gilgamesh  series.  It 
is  a  complete  tale,  related  to  Gilgamesh  by  Pernapishtim, 
who,  together  with  his  family,  was  saved  from  the  deluge. 
This  story  had  originally  no  connection  with  the  rest  of  the 
poem,  whose  historic  kernel,  ais  we  gather  from  the  fifth 
and  sixth  tablet,  was  a  great  national  upheaval,  under  the 
leadership  of  an  ancient  King  of  Erech,  Gilgamesh,  by 
means  of  which  an  Elamite  dynasty  was  overthrown  and 
Babylonian  rule  again  established.  It  can  not  be  ascer- 
tained what  historical  foundations  underlie  the  other 
legends  told  in  this  great  poem  of  Gilgamesh,  but  it  is 
quite  natural  to  assume  that  some  early  ruler  did  perform 
deeds  of  valour,  and  that  his  name  in  later  time  became 
the  centre  around  which  stories  and  legends,  describing 
originally  the  deeds  of  other  heroes,  gathered.  Like 
the  Homeric  poems  of  Greek  and  the  great  Nibelun- 
genlied  of  early  German  literature,  the  Gilgamesh  epic 
was  a  poem  of  composite  character.  It  would  be  quite 
easy  to  prove  this,  would  space  permit.  It  is  sufficient  to 
enumerate,  as  a  partial  proof,  the  principal  sections — viz., 
the  rule  of  Gilgamesh  over  Erech,  the  strong-walled;  the 
story  of  Uchat,  the  hunter,  and  Eabani;  the  expedition  of 
Gilgamesh  and  Eabani  against  the  Elamite  king;  the  love 
of  the  goddess  Ishtar  for  Gilgamesh,  rejected  by  him,  for 
which  the  goddess  vows  vengeance;  the  slaying  of  the 
monstrous  mountain-bull ;  the  journey  of  Gilgamesh  to  the 
Mountain  of  the  Sunset;  the  passage  of  the  Waters  of 
Death;  the  Story  of  the  Deluge;  the  search  for  the  Plant 
of  Life,  and  the  recall  of  Eabani's  spirit  from  the  nether- 
world. All  or  most  of  these  stories  were  probably  asso- 
ciated originally  with  the  names  of  other  heroes;  but  they 
attached  themselves  in  the  course  of  centuries  to  the  name 
of  Gilgamesh. 

Fortunately,  this  was  not  the  case  with  all  Babylonian 
legends.  There  have  remained  some,  perhaps  later,  pos- 
sibly earlier,  legends,  quite  independent  of  the  name  and 
fame  of  Gilgamesh.    A  few  of  these  have  been  discovered. 


Hi  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

and,  let  us  hope,  more  will  be  found  in  the  course  of  time. 
Of  independent  legends  there  are  known  to  us  the  Story 
of  Zu;  of  Dibbara,  the  plague-god;  of  Adapa  and  the 
South-wind;  and  that  of  Etana,  the  eagle,  and  the  serpent. 
The  nether-world,  that  mysterious  abode  of  the  departed 
shades  about  which  legends  of  all  nations  have  gathered, 
played  an  important  role  in  the  Gilgamesh  poem  and  the 
legend  of  the  Descent  of  the  goddess  Ishtar.  But  heaven 
was  also  a  mysterious  place,  and  we  see  that  it  also  finds 
place  in  ancient  mythology  to  a  considerable  extent  As 
in  the  mjrthology  of  other  nations,  we  have  in  the  legends 
of  Etana  and  Adapia  stories  of  daring  mortals  brought  into 
conflict  with  thc;  gods  by  their  presumption;  both  jour- 
neying to  heaven;  the  one  seeking  entrance  by  his  own 
devices,  the  other  summoned  thither  bjr'Anu,  the  god  of 
heaven.  In  the  legend  of  Zu  we  learn  how  one  of  the 
lesser  deities  obtained,  for  a  time  at  least,  control  of  the 
whole  assembly  of  the  gods  by  stealing  from  Bel  the 
tablets  of  destiny  and  fleeing  away  to  his  mountain  abode, 
whither  none  of  the  gods  dare  go.  How  he  was  finally  pun- 
ished we  know  not,  for  the  end  of  the  legend  is  missing. 

The  story  of  Ishtar's  Descent  into  Hades  may  be 
sketched  as  follows:  Ishtar  arrives  before  the  gates  of  the 
land  of  No-Retum.  After  passing  through  the  seventh 
gate  she  is  brought  naked  and  helpless  before  Allatu,  the 
queen  of  the  nether-world,  who  commands  Namtar  to 
smite  her  with  plagues  in  all  parts  of  her  body.  The  ab- 
sence of  Ishtar,  however,  causes  all  sexual  intercourse  to 
cease  upon  the  earth.  News  of  this  calamity  is  brought  to 
Shamash,  the  Sun-god,  by  Papsukal,  the  messenger  of  the 
gods.  Shamash  at  once  hastens  to  Sin  and  Ea  to  discuss  a 
remedy.  A  mysterious  being,  named  Uddushu-namir,  is 
created  by  Ea  and  sent  to  Allatu  to  demand  in  the  name  of 
the  great  gods  the  waters  of  life  with  which  to  sprinkle 
Ishtar.  Enraged  at  the  request,  Allatu  curses  Uddushu- 
namir  with  a  fearful  curse,  but  nevertheless  commands 
Namtar  to  bring  forth  the  prisoner  and  to  sprinkle  her  with 
the  waters  of  life.     Ishtar  is  led  forth,  and  as  she  passes 


INTRODUCTION  liii 

through  each  gate  her  ornaments  are  restored  to  her  one 
by  one. 

The  interpretation  of  this  story  depends  upon  the  mean- 
ing of  the  last  few  lines,  which  are  somewhat  obscure.  The 
situation  as  given  by  Dr.  Alfred  Jeremias  is  ^perhaps  the 
most  probable.  A  brother  goes  to  a  magician  to  inquire 
for  the  spirit  of  a  dead  sister.  The  real  issue  involved  is, 
"  Will  the  dead  return?  "  The  magician  then  relates  to 
him  the  story  of  Ishtar,  the  only  one  who  has  ever  returned 
from  the  nether-world.  In  line  47  of  the  obverse  the 
mourner  himself  is  addressed:  "  If  she  (i.  e.,  Allatu)  does 
not  give  to  thee  her  release  (i.e .,  of  the  dead  sister),  then 
turn  thyself  to  her  (i.  e.,  Ishtar)."  He  is  then  commanded 
to  secure  the  good  graces  of  Ishtar  and  her  consort,  Tam- 
muz,  by  a  formal  lamentation.  The  reference  to  Belili, 
seemingly  a  sister  of  Tammuz,  in  lines  53  and  54,  is  some- 
what obscure.  In  line  55  the  departed  sister  addresses  her 
sorrowing  brother,  giving  directions  that  on  the  day  of 
Tammuz,  as  they  weep  for  the  departed  consort  of  Ishtar, 
they  shall  not  forget  her  in  their  lamentation.  It  ought  to 
be  added  that  this  story  of  Ishtar  is  not,  as  was  formerly  sup- 
posed, a  part  of  the  Gilgamesh  epic.  This  legend  has  been 
ably  treated  by  Jastrow  in  Chapter  XXV,  "  The  Views  of 
Life  after  Death,"  of  his  "  Religion  of  Babylonia  and  As- 
syria." 

It  is  quite  certain  that  these  legends  and  myths  were 
implicitly  belieyed  by  the  Babylonians,  and  had  a  religious 
import  for  the  people  among -whom  we  find  them,  where 
they  formed  a  part  an  the  practical  religion  and  worship  of 
the  Babylonians.:  Many  of  the  legends  were  doubtless  sug- 
gested to  the  early  Babylonians  by  changes  in  the  aspect  of 
Nature  or  widespread  plagues  and  disease.  The  clearest 
instance  of  this  is  preserved  in  the  Dibbara  legend,  the 
story  of  the  plague-god,  whose  campaigns  and  bloody  bat- 
tles were  thus  suggested  as  the  work  of,  the  god  and  his 
attendant ,  deity  Ishum.  -  From  similar  circumstances  we 
may  safely  assume: that  tablets  containing  these  accounts 
were  hung  up  at  the  entrance  of  houses  and  served  as  amu- 


liv         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

lets  for  keeping  off  the  plague.  The  Zu  legend  was  prob- 
ably first  suggested  by  a  sudden  overwhelming  of  the 
country  by  storms  and  clouds.  In  general  we  may  say  that, 
aside  from  the  Creation  account,  two  main  elements  can  be 
observed  in' these  Babylonian  legends — ^viz.,  echoes  from 
the  history  of  the  remote  past,  and  the  scene  of  some  strik- 
ing phenomenon  of  Nature. 

Oracles  given  in  Favour  of  Esarhaddon. — ^These  oracles, 
eight  in  number,  are  found  on  a  large  clay  tablet,  about 
two  thirds  of  which  has  been  preserved.  After  each  oracle 
and  separated  from  it  by  a  line  is  given  the  name  of  the 
person  uttering  it.  All  of  them,  except  the  first  and  the 
last,  are  by  women.  Five  of  the  oracles  are  from  Arbela. 
They  appear  to  be  part  of  a  more  extensive  collection  made 
by  the  votaries  of  the  Ishtar  cult  at  Arbela  (pp.  414—419). 

They  possess  the  usual  characteristics  of  oracular  re- 
sponse— dignity  and  indefiniteness.  The  general  purpose, 
however,  is  plainly  that  of  encouragement.  They  have 
usually  been  referred  to  the  beginning  of  Esarhaddon's 
reign,  as  the  time  to  which  they  most  suitably  apply.  The 
king  is  evidently  beset  by  some  powerful  enemy,  and  the 
throne  itself  is  in  immediate  danger  of  being  overthrown. 
This  enemy  is  none  other  than  the  two  brothers  of  Esar- 
haddon, who  had  murdered  their  father  Sennacherib  and 
then  fled  into  Armenia,  but  had  now  come  down  to  wrest 
the  rule  from  their  younger  brother.  For  several  months 
the  attention  of  the  young  king  was  taken  up  with  fighting 
for  his  rights  to  the  succession,  and  it  is  at  this  time  that 
the  majority  of  scholars  date  these  utterances. 

No.  7,  which  is  addressed  to  the  king's  mother,  and  No. 
3,  which  is  a  formal  acknowledgment  of  the  kingship  of 
Esarhaddon,  are  clearly  from  the  beginning  of  his  reign. 
As  far  as  the  others  are  concerned,  they  are  in  all  proba- 
bility from  the  same  period,  although  some  scholars  are  of 
the  opinion  that  they  cover  the  entire  reign  of  Esarhaddon. 

Magic.— Tht.  religious  literature  of  Babylonia  is  pecul- 
iarly rich  in  its  collection  of  magical  incantations  and 
exorcisms,  which  fact  points  to  a  widespread  belief  in  innu- 


INTRODUCTION  Iv 

merable  spirits,  which  were  supposed  to  have  a  certain 
power  over  men.  To  control  these  spirits,  to  turn  aside  the 
consequences  of  their  malice,  and  to  insure  their  good  will, 
is  in  general  the  object  of  these  texts. 

It  was  natural  that  disease  should  be  considered  as  an 
affliction  from  some  troublesome  spirit,  either  directly 
present  in  the  body  or  exercising  its  pernicious  influence 
from  a  distant  hiding-place.  The  cure  was  brought  about 
by  exorcising  the  demon  through  prescribed  formulas, 
whose  virtue  had  been  tested,  the  recital  of  whi(;h  was  ac- 
companied by  symbolical  acts.  These  symbolical  acts 
were  usually  the  burning  of  images  of  the  witches  and 
the  loosing  of  knots  which  the  witches  were  supposed  to 
have  tied. 

In  all  probability  the  magical  texts  were  among  the  first 
of  the  religious  texts  to  be  committed  to  writing.  Serv- 
ing the  practical  purpose  that  they  did,  it  is  not  at  all 
strange  that  certain  ones  which  had  proved  their  effective- 
ness would  become  popular.  A  desire  to  preserve  such 
would  arise  early,  and  they  would  after  a  while  become 
permanently  associated  with  certain  temples,  thus  forming 
what  might  be  well  called  a  ritual.  In  this  manner  they 
would  form  part  of  the  temple  archives. 

Several  of  such  rituals  or  series  of  texts  have  been  pre- 
served, some  of  longer  and  some  of  shorter  extent.  The 
ordinary  method  was  to  name  a  series  after  the  opening  line 
of  the  first  tablet.  With  the  magical  texts,  however,  this 
custom  was  departed  from,  and  instead  the  series  was  given 
a  title  distinctive  of  its  contents.  Thus  we  have  a  series  of 
nine  tablets  dealing  for  the  most  part  with  diseases  con- 
nected with  the  brain,  which  is  called  the  "  Head-sickness 
Series."  Another,  comprising  at  least  sixteen  tablets,  was 
called  the  "  Evil-Demon  Series,"  because  its  purpose  was 
protection  against  various  classes  of  evil  demons.  The  two 
series  of  texts,  "  Shurpu  "  and  "  Maqlu  " — ^both  of  which 
signify  "  burning  " — from  which  a  large  part  of  our  trans- 
lations have  been  taken,  were  so  called  because  both  series 
had  to  do  with  the  burning  of  the  images  of  the  sorcerers 


Ivi         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

and  with  the  incantations  which  were  used  in  connection 
with  this  symboHcal  act.  The  latter  of  these  embraced 
eight  tablets  and  contained  about  fifteen  hundred  and  fifty 
lines.  The  former,  though  embracing  nine  tablets,  is  some- 
what shorter. 

We  have  spoken  of  these  series  of  texts  as  rituals.  With 
reference  to  their  growth  Jastrow  makes  the  following  in- 
teresting suggestions:  "  The  texts  were  evidently  prepared 
with  a  practical  purpose  in  view.  The  efficacy  of  certain 
formulas  having  been  demonstrated,  it  was  obviously  of 
importance  that  their  exact  form  should  be  preserved  for 
future  reference.  But  a  given  formula  was  effective  only 
for  a  given  case,  or  at  most  for  certain  correlated  cases,  and 
accordingly  it  became  necessary  to  collect  as  many  for- 
mulas as  possible  to  cover  all  emergencies.  The  priests, 
acting  as  exorcisers,  would  be  the  ones  interested  in  mak- 
ing such  collections,  and  we  may  assume,  as  already  sug- 
gested, that  each  temple  would  develop  a  collection  of  its 
own — an  incantation  code  that  served  as  a  guide  for  its 
priests.  The  natural  tendency  would  be  for  these  codes  to 
increase  from  generation  to  generation,  perhaps  not  rap- 
idly, but  steadily.  New  cases  not  as  yet  provided  for  would 
arise,  and  new  formulas  with  new  instructions  would  be 
produced;  or  the  exorcisers  at  a  certain  temple  would  learn 
of  the  remedies  tried  elsewhere,  and  would  embody  them 
in  their  own  special  code.  In  short,  the  growth  of  these 
incantation  *  rituals '  was  probably  similar  to  the  manner 
in  which,  on  the  basis  of  actual  practice,  religious  codes 
grew  up  around  the  sanctuaries  of  ancient  Israel,  a  process 
that  terminated  in  the  production  of  the  various  codes  and 
rituals  constituting  the  legal  documents  embodied  in  the 
Pentateuch." 

Concerning  the  time  of  the  composition  of  these  texts, 
Jastrow  proposes  as  the  terminus  a  quo  the  union  of  the 
Babylonian  states  under  Hammurabi,  and  the  necessary  re- 
sult, the  supremacy  of  Marduk.  The  prominence  of  Ea 
and  his  favourite  seat,  the  city  of  Eridu,  in  the  incantation 
texts,  gives  additional  confirmation  to  the  antiquity  of  such 


INTRODUCTION  Ivii 

incantations  in  Babylonia.  But  the  texts,  as  we  have  them, 
are  not  in  their  original  form.  Evidence  of  various  sorts — 
such  as  catch-lines,  duplicates,  series,  and  colophons — 
makes  it  very  clear  that  they  have  been  subjected  to  more 
or  less  editorial  work.  The  language  gives  evidence  that 
the  present  form  of  the  texts  came  into  existence  probably 
not  later  than  2000  b.  c,  from  which  tablets,  the  copies 
which  have  been  preserved  down  to  our  own  time,  were 
written  many  centuries  later.  The  exact  time  of  the  com- 
position of  a  series  of  texts  can  not,  however,  be  deter- 
mined except  within  certain  wide  limits.  The  copying  and 
editing  may  have  gone  on  at  the  same  time. 

Having  spoken  of  the  general  character  and  develop- 
ment of  the  incantation  texts,  it  remains  to  discuss  briefly 
the  three  chief  elements  in  this  phase  of  Babylonian  re- 
ligion— the  demons,  the  witches,  and  the  exorcisers. 

The  names  of  the  demons  are  very  numerous,  and,  al- 
though in  many  places  they  seem  merely  to  have  the  gen- 
eral connotation  "  evil  spirit,"  originally  indicated  some 
distinctive  characteristic,  such  as  the  moment  chosen  for 
their  work,  as  lilu,  night-spirit;  or  their  method  of  attack, 
as  rabi9U,  the  one  who  lies  in  wait;  or  ekimmu,  the  seizer; 
or  their  chief  attribute,  as  gallu,  the  strong  one. 

There  is  no  place  in  any  corner  of  the  universe  where 
these  evil  spirits  can  not  penetrate.  Every  manner  of  evil 
and  disaster  is  ascribed  to  them,  from  pestilence,  fever,  and 
the  scorching  wind  of  the  desert,  down  to  the  trifles  of  life — 
a  quarrel,  a  headache,  a  broken  dish,  or  a  bad  dream.  They 
walk  the  street,  slip  into  the  door,  get  into  the  food;  in 
short,  are  everywhere,  and  the  danger  from  their  presence 
is  always  imminent.  To  be  sure,  they  had  their  favourite 
haunts  in  regions  difficult  of  access^ — the  lonely  desert, 
the  silent  grove,  the  mountain  wady  filled  with  shadows. 
On  the  monuments  they  are  always  represented  by  some 
ugly  and  monstrous  form,  either  animal  or  human.  For  a 
long  time  the  Assyrian  kings  protected  the  entrances  and 
the  doorways  of  their  palaces  by  huge  representations  of 
these  evil  spirits — the  well-known  bulls  and  lions — ^and 


Iviii      ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

some  of  these  colossi  are  even  known  by  the  name  shedu, 
which  is  one  of  the  general  terms  for  demon. 

The  dividing  line  between  the  demons  and  the  gods  is 
frequently  hard  to  trace.  The  process  of  the  survival  of 
the  fittest  went  on  even  among  the  spirits  as  well  as  else- 
where, and  the  origin  of  not  a  few  of  the  gods  can  be  traced 
back  to  demons.  The  opposite  process  also  took  place. 
Scores  of  the  old  local  gods  of  Babylonia  have  been  per- 
petuated merely  through  their  being  evil  spirits.  The  main 
difference  between  the  gods  and  the  spirits  is  in  this:  while 
there  were  a  few  good  spirits,  the  great  majority  of  them 
were  hostile  to  man  and  beast;  the  gods,  on  the  other  hand, 
were  usually  favourably  disposed,  and  though  at  times 
angry  with  their  followers,  could  nevertheless  be  appeased. 

Corresponding  to  a  widespread  belief  in  demons  was  a 
similar  belief  in  witchcraft.  It  was  not  at  all  strange  that 
the  demons,  who  worked  in  every  possible  corner  of  the 
universe,  should  take  possession  of  human  beings.  For  the 
most  part  the  witches  were  persons  of  abnormal  appear- 
ance— dwarfs,  giants,  deformed,  insane,  possessing  the 
"  evil  eye,"  etc.  As  is  universally  the  case,  the  witch  was 
far  more  common  than  the  male  sorcerer. 

These  possessed  persons  had  the  same  power  as  the 
demons,  and  often  the  two  are  placed  in  such  close  juxta- 
position that  very  little  difference  can  be  discerned  between 
them.  In  the  same  manner  as  the  evil  spirit,  the  witch 
could  get  inside  of  a  man  and  work  all  sorts  of  mischief. 
From  being  on  an  equality  and  having  the  same  power  as 
the  demons,  it  was  but  natural  that  the  witches  should  at 
last  be  conceived  of  as  being  superior  to  the  evil  spirits, 
and  as  having  full  control  over  them,  able  to  have  them 
at  their  beck  and  call. 

The  methods  of  control  which  the  witches  employed 
were  various — the  "  evil  word,"  consisting  of  some  magi- 
cal formula,  the  glance  from  an  "  evil  eye,"  or  potions  con- 
cocted from  noxious  herbs.  A  very  common  method  of 
control,  which  rests  upon  the  scientific  principle  of  sym- 
pathetic magic,  was  the  symbolical  act  of  the  sorcerer.    He 


INTRODUCTION  lix 

would  perhaps  tie  knots  in  a  rope,  and  with  each  knot  re- 
peat a  certain  formula,  and  thus  in  symbol  wrench  the 
limbs,  wrack  the  arms,  or  strangle  the  throat  of  the  victim; 
or  perhaps  he  would  make  an  effigy  of  his  victim  out  of 
honey,  clay,  or  pitch,  and  then  by  burning,  torturing,  or 
burying  it  in  some  out-of-the-way  place,  would  foretell  a 
corresponding  fate  on  the  part  of  the  one  whom  it  repre- 
sented. 

Life  without  any  protection  whatever  against  the  in- 
numerable throng  of  sorcerers,  witches,  and  demons,  must 
have  been  unbearable.  We  are  not  surprised  to  find,  there- 
fore, a  wide  use  of  amulets  and  talismans.  Mr.  L.  W.  King 
has  described  some  fragments  of  the  "  Pest-god  "  legend 
on  tablets  which  were  evidently  intended  to  be  hung  up. 
Every  one  had  to  have  his  protection,  but  the  use  of  such 
charms  demanded  on  the  part  of  the  wearer  no  particular 
acquaintance  with  the  best  means  of  turning  aside  the  evil 
influences  which  were  on  every  hand.  Frequently  a  more 
potent  means  was  required  to  effect  a  cure,  and  special 
knowledge  was  necessary  for  this.  Thus  a  professional  class 
arose  whose  particular  work  was  to  cope  with  these  de- 
moniacal powers  of  the  witches  and  the  evil  spirits.  These 
men  were  naturally  the  priests,  and  early  in  the  develop- 
ment of  religion  this  became  one  of  their  main  functions. 

The  conjurer-priest,  or  ashipu,  as  he  is  called,  is  in  the 
service  of  Ea  and  Marduk,  and  by  means  of  the  incantation 
performs  various  mediatorial  services  for  his  people — such 
as  the  healing  of  diseases,  the  atoning  for  sins  that  have 
been  committed,  the  loosing  from  the  ban  of  the  sorcerer, 
the  driving  away  of  evil  spirits,  the  appeasing  of  the  wrath 
of  the  angry  god  or  goddess. 

As  far  as  the  activity  of  the  exercisers  is  concerned,  it 
differed  very  little  from  that  of  the  sorcerers  and  the 
witches.  The  method  of  the  latter  was  more  simple.  The 
former  had  brought  their  art  to  a  system.  The  latter  were 
in  the  service  of  evil.  The  former  devoted  themselves  to 
the  good,  and  thus,  under  the  kindly  protection  of  the 
gods,  their  activity  became,  as  it  were,  legalized.    A  casual 


Ix  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

reading  of  the  incantations  shows  that  one  of  the  prin- 
cipal rules  of  conjuring  was  to  repay  like  for  like.  So  the 
conjurer  prays  that  the  gods  may  conjure  the  sorcerer  with 
his  own  sorcery,  the  incantation  of  the  witch  is  counter- 
acted by  another  incantation  of  superior  power,  the  sym- 
bolical tying  of  knots  is  offset  by  the  symbolical  loosen- 
ing of  them,  the  burning  of  an  image  of  the  witch  is  an 
effective  remedy  for  a  similar  action  on  their  part. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  activity  of  the  exerciser  was 
under  the  protection  of  the  gods.  These  gods,  opposed  to 
the  "  gods  of  the  night,"  whose  nature  it  was  to  work  evil, 
were  first  of  all  Ea,  who  occupies  a  very  prominent  place 
in  the  incantation  texts,  and  his  sons  Shamash,  Marduk, 
Gibil,  and  Nusku.  Besides  these  there  were  Ishtar  and  her 
spouse  Tammuz,  Nana,  Belit,  and  Sin,  the  Moon-god.  By 
far  the  greatest  role,  however,  is  played  by  the  Fire-god. 
We  are  constantly  meeting  him.  He,  together  with  fire, 
the  element  which  he  represents,  are  the  untiring  helpers  of 
the  exorcisers  in  their  battle  against  the  powers  of  darkness. 

The  "  Maqlu  Series  "  has  been  edited  by  Dr.  Tallqvist, 
and  the  "  Shurpu  Series  "  by  Professor  Zimmem.  Mr. 
Leonard  W.  King  has  edited  "  The  Prayers  of  the  Lifting 
of  the  Hand  "  in  his  "  Babylonian  Magic  and  Sorcery." 
The  translations  have  been  based  on  these  editions.  Many 
suggestions  have  been  received  from  Jastrow's  admirable 
treatment  of  "  The  Magical  Texts  "  in  Chapter  XVI  of  his 
"  Religion  of  Babylonia  and  Ass)Tia." 

Hymns  and  Prayers. — ^The  Hymns  and  Prayers  are 
very  closely  related  to  Incantations.  To  quote  Jastrow: 
"The  addition  to  the  sacred  formulas  of  prayers  directly 
addressed  to  certain  gods  may  be  put  down  as  due  to  the 
adaptation  of  ancient  texts  to  the  needs  of  a  later  age;  and, 
on  the  other  hand,  the  addition  of  incantations  to  what 
appear  to  have  been  originally  prayers,  pure  and  simple, 
is  a  concession  made  to  the  persistent  belief  in  the  efficacy 
of  certain  formulas  when  properly  uttered." 

The  Hymns  to  Ishtar  and  Sin  have  been  selected  for 
translation  as  rather  elaborate  examples  of  this  class  of 


INTRODUCTION  Ixi 

literature.  Several  of  "  The  Prayers  of  the  Lifting  of  the 
Hand,"  and  two  of  "The  Prayers  to  the  Sun-god,"  have 
been  added.  The  former  have  been  edited  by  Mr.  Leonard 
W.  King,  and  the  latter  by  Dr.  Knudtzon. 

The  "  Prayers  to  the  Sun-god  "  are  so  peculiar  as  to 
warrant  a  few  words  of  introduction.  They  date  from  the 
reigns  of  Esarhaddon  and  Ashurbanipal,  and  they  have 
to  do  with  questions  which  concern  the  state  and  the  royal 
house.  The  opening  line  is  always  the  same — viz.,  "  O 
Shamash!  great  lord!  As  I  ask  thee,  do  thou  in  true  mercy 
answer  me."  Then  follows  the  question,  in  which  the 
priest,  acting  as  mediator,  makes  inquiry  whether  certain 
political  or  warlike  operations  will  be  carried  out  within 
a  set  period.  We  then  have  a  request  that  the  Sun-god 
should  not  heed  any  imperfections,  impurities,  or  con- 
taminations in  the  sacrificial  lamb,  or  any  failings  of  the 
priest  in  the  matter  of  dress,  accent,  or  ritualistic  purity. 
The  first  request  is  made  again  by  the  priest,  but  in  a 
shorter  form;  the  animal  is  inspected,  and  in  a  final  prayer 
the  Sun-god  is  asked  to  send  a  favourable  oracle.  These 
so-called  "Prayers  to  the  Sun-god  "  are  valuable  sources 
of  history.  They  are  often  accompanied  by  omens. 
Jastrow  places  them  under  "  Oracles  and  Omens,"  rather 
than  prayers.  There  are  several  fine  prayers  in  the  His- 
torical Inscriptions,  the  best  of  which  are  from  Nebuchad- 
rezzar. 

Penitential  Psalms. — ^While  these  Psalms  are  closely  re- 
lated to  the  other  forms  of  religious  literature,  they  rise 
far  above  all  other  forms  in  spirituality  and  religious  con- 
ception. Zimmem,  who  has  done  such  excellent  work 
in  their  interpretation,  is  of  the  opinion  that  they  owe  their 
existence  to  national  misfortunes,  and  were  composed  in 
times  of  national  stress.  From  some  historical  references 
he  is  inclined  to  assign  some  of  them  to  the  time  of  Ham- 
murabi. 

The  idea  underlying  them  is  that  misfortunes  are 
directly  due  to  the  wrath  of  the  gods,  and  hence,  in  these 
Psalms,  great  emphasis  is  placed  on  the  pacification  of  the 


Ixii       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

deities  or  deity.  The  persons  concerned  in  them  are:  the 
god,  whose  anger  is  to  be  appeased;  the  priest,  who  acts 
as  mediator;  and  the  penitent.  A  remarkable  degree  of 
humility  and  an  almost  exaggerated  sense  of  sin  permeate 
them.  Many  of  them  compare  favourably  with  some  of 
the  so-called  Davidic  Collection  contained  in  the  Old  Testa- 
ment. 

Omens. — ^A  large  proportion  of  the  tablets  found  in  the 
"  Library  of  Ashurbanipal  "  belongs  to  this  class  of  litera- 
ture. Comparatively  few  have  been  published,  and  hence  it 
is  with  great  pleasure  that  scholars  will  welcome  the  two 
recent  volumes  of  Mr.  R.  Campbell  Thompson,  of  the  Brit- 
ish Museum,  on  "The  Reports  of  the  Magicians  and 
Astrologers  of  Nineveh  and  Babylon."  Omens  were 
eagerly  sought  in  matters  pertaining  to  both  public  and 
private  life,  such  as  the  stability  of  the  throne,  peace,  war, 
pestilence,  famine,  inundations,  drought,  disease,  death, 
and  so  forth.  They  were  derived  from  the  appearance, 
movements,  and  actions  of  all  kinds  of  animals;  from 
human  and  animal  births;  from  incidents  that  happened 
to  the  sick;  from  the  condition  of  the  parts  of  the  body; 
in  fact,  no  occurrence  was  too  trivial  to  escape  notice. 
Astronomy,  and  especially  astrology,  played  an  important 
part.  The  Omens  given  in  the  translations  belong  to  the 
group  generally  styled  "Astrological  Forecasts."  These 
have  been  selected  from  Mr.  Thompson's  valuable  work. 

Robert  Francis  Harper. 


AN   OUTLINE  OF 
BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN   HISTORY 


OF  the  seats  of  primitive  civilization  known  to  man 
one  of  the  earh'est  is  the  valley  of  the  Tigris  and 
the  Euphrates.  On  the  alluvial  plain  at  the  mouth 
of  these  rivers,  ordinarily  called  Babylonia,  lived  peoples 
enjoying  settled  conditions  of  government  and  culture  as 
early  as  5000  b.  c.  Who  the  first  settlers  .were  is  quite 
uncertain,  and  the  problem  of  their  racial  relations  is  still 
in  dispute.  By  the  time  history  gains  form  and  consecu- 
tion, however,  a  type  of  civilization  became  dominant  and 
universal  which  represented  the  supremacy  of  the  Semitic 
race. 

The  prevailing  form  of  government  was  the  city  state, 
and  political  progress  continued  in  the  varying  and  suc- 
cessive supremacies  of  the  cities,  one  after  another,  and 
their  gradual  unification.  Thus,  among  others,  Shirpurla, 
Kish,  Ur,  Agade,  Erech,  Larsa,  and  Babylon,  formed  king- 
doms ruling  a  territory  more  or  less  extensive,  and  yield- 
ing in  turn  to  more  powerful  rivals. 

A  turning  point  in  this  earliest  period  is  marked  by  the 
supremacy  of  the  city  of  Agade  under  two  famous  kings, 
Sargon  and  his  son  Naram  Sin.  By  the  testimony  of  a 
later  King  of  Babylon,  the  date  of  Naram  Sin  is  fixed  at  3750 
B.  c,  and  of  Sargon,  therefore,  about  3800.  Both  kings 
testify  that  they  ruled  as  far  south  as  the  centre  of  the 
Babylonian  plain,  and,  if  inscriptions  coming  from  a  much 
later  age  and  ascribed  to  them  are  credible,  their  empire 

Ixiii 


Ixiv       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

extended  to  the  Mediterranean  on  the  west,  into  Arabia 
on  the  south,  and  eastward  into  Elam.  These  later  docu- 
ments, as  well  as  the  autobiographical  fragment  ascribed 
to  Sargon  (see  page  i),  indicate  how  strong  an  impres- 
sion was  made  by  these  kings  upon  the  imagination  of 
other  centuries,  and  suggest,  therefore,  something  of  the 
significance  and  scope  of  their  activities. 

Looking  back  upon  this  first  great  age  of  Babylonian 
history,  three  features  are  prominent: 

1.  Religion  is  the  formative  element.  In  the  centre  of 
each  city  is  the  temple,  with  its  ruling  and  protecting  deity. 
Priests  are  the  guardians  of  culture.  The  citizens  with 
their  rulers  are  servants  of  the  god.  All  life  is  founded  on 
religion  and  permeated  with  its  influence.  Literature  and 
fundamental  institutions  are  occupied  with  it.  Already 
the  traditions  of  a  far-distant  past  have  been  wrought  into 
something  like  an  organized  literary  form,  the  outcome 
of  which  is  poetical  literature  like  the  Babylonian  story  of 
creation,  and  the  narrative  of  the  deluge,  the  latter  form- 
ing an  episode  in  an  epic  poem.  Already  the  Sabbath,  "  a 
day  of  rest  for  the  heart,"  is  a  fundamental  institution 
which,  with  other  equally  important  elements  of  religion, 
was  later  to  find  its  home  among  the  Hebrews. 

2.  The  energizing  element  of  these  communities  is  the 
ruler.  He  exercises  supreme  and  unlimited  power  as  serv- 
ant of  the  ddty  and  representative  of  divine  authority.  He 
is  the  builder,  the  general,  the  judge,  the  high  priest.  His 
name  is  perpetuated  upon  the  building  stones  of  the  temple 
and  palace.  His  figure  is  preserved  in  the  image  which 
stands  before  the  god  in  his  temple. 

3.  From  a  civilization  rooted  in  religion  and  under  the 
sway  of  a  ruler  limited  only  by  the  will  of  god  springs 
the  impulse  to  expansion  so  characteristic  of  those  early 
Babylonian  communities.  Circumstances  were  also  par- 
ticularly favourable.  Communication  between  the  differ- 
ent cities  was  made  easy  by  the  innumerable  water  courses 
threading  the  plain.  The  Tigris-Euphrates  Valley  lay  in 
a  kind  of  natural  centre  of  commerce,  inviting  trade  from 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN   HISTORY  Ixv 

the  south  and  east  and  sending  forth  its  merchants  to  the 
north  and  west  along  the  natural  highways  made  by  its 
rivers.  Thus,  by  the  twenty-fifth  century  b.  c,  Babylonian 
civilization  had  reached  Syria  and  Palestine,  and  Babylo- 
nian rulers  claimed  authority  in  these  regions. 

These  larger  outlooks  with  their  opportunities  for 
wealth  and  power  naturally  reacted  upon  the  Babylonian 
states  to  produce  greater  political  unification.  This  pro- 
cess came  to  its  culmination  in  connection  with  the  inva- 
sion of  a  foreign  foe,  the  Elamites,  who,  descending  from 
the  heights  to  the  east,  gained  possession  of  the  southern 
cities  and  received  the  homage  of  those  of  northern  Baby- 
lonia. But  the  occupation  was  only  temporary.  A  move- 
ment of  liberation  emanating  from  the  city  state  of  Babylon 
succeeded  not  only  in  driving  out  the  enemy,  but  in  unit- 
ing all  the  cities  under  the  sway  of  the  northern  capital, 
Babylon.  The  leader  in  this  struggle  and  first  king  of 
united  Babylonia  was  Hammurabi,  who  reigned,  accord- 
ing to  the  dynastic  tablet,  fifty-five  years,  and  is  the  founder 
of  the  old  Babylonian  Empire.  He  drove  out  the  Elam- 
ites and  conquered  Rim-Sin  of  Larsa.  He  united  under 
the  headship  of  Babylon  the  "  kingdom  of  the  four  re- 
gions "  and  that  of  "  Shumir  and  Akkad."  This  unity  he 
sought  to  make  not  merely  political,  but  religious  and 
social.  He  shows  a  statesmanlike  ability  in  the  measures 
he  undertook,  and  the  national  history  begins  with  him. 

The  historical  material  coming  from  him  is  not  abun- 
dant, but  sufficient  to  reveal  some  of  the  details  of  his 
activity.  The  ends  he  aimed  at  were  inner  organization 
and  restoration  in  politics,  religion,  and  society.  His  atten- 
tion was  directed  not  to  Babylon  alone,  but  over  the  whole 
land.  A  period  of  prosperity  and  advance  in  all  spheres 
of  life  is  the  result  of  his  work.  Unity,  nationality,  is  im- 
pressed on  all  departments  of  the  national  structure.  This 
appears  in — 

I.  The  development  of  national  prosperity.  A  great 
mass  of  the  so-called  contract  tablets  dates  from  the  reign 
of  Hammurabi,    The  evidence  of  these  to  a  condition  of 


Ixvl      ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

peace,  security,  and  prosperity  is  apparent.  The  king^s 
canal  inscription,  in  which  he  records  the  digging  of  a  trunk 
canal,  and  its  effect  upon  the  fertility  of  the  land,  illustrates 
another  feature  of  the  times. 

2.  The  growth  of  a  national  culture.  The  inscriptions 
of  the  king  tell  of  his  temple-building  and  his  encourage- 
ment of  the  architectural  advancement  of  the  land.  Much 
of  the  oldest  literary  material  which  has  come  down  to 
us  dates  from  his  reign.  He  was  also  an  ardent  collector 
of  ancient  traditions.  The  great  epic  poem  of  Babylonia, 
of  which  the  deluge  story  forms  a  part,  is  thought  to  come 
from  his  time.  He  was  the  founder  of  the  Semitic  national 
culture  which  flourished  so  magnificently,  and  has  been  so 
widely  influential  upon  succeeding  peoples  and  nations. 

3.  The  establishment  of  a  national  religion.  It  is  not 
without  good  ground  that  the  organization  of  the  Baby- 
lonian religion  is  assigned  to  Hammurabi.  Before  him  it 
was  impossible,  for  local  authority  meant  local  religion. 
Only  where  there  was  a  united  Babylonia  could  there  be 
one  national  religion.  The  gods  of  the  cities  were  gathered 
into  a  pantheon.  The  magical  and  astral  elements  were  har- 
monized. 

Babylonia,  thus  unified,  pressed  forward  yet  more  vig- 
orously in  its  career  of  expansion.  An  irresistible  impulse 
carried  it  inevitably  to  the  north  and  west.  To  the  south 
lay  the  unknown  oceans,  or  the  inhospitable  deserts.  To 
the  east  the  equally  impassable  mountain  ranges  of  central 
Asia.  But  the  Euphrates  and  Tigris  afforded  easy  ap- 
proach to  the  land  of  upper  Mesopotamia  and  Syria,  and 
thither  pointed  the  manifest  destiny  of  the  rulers  of  the 
Babylonian  state.  Henceforth  the  history  of  Babylonia 
is  the  history  of  its  relation  to  the  western  worid.  One  of 
the  kings  of  the  dynasty  of  Hammurabi  proclaims  himself 
lord  of  the  west.  All  of  them  have  long  reigns,  indicating 
peace,  prosperity,  and  progress. 

The  absence  of  any  definite  knowledge  concerning  the 
second  Babylonian  dynasty  (about  2094-1730  b.  c.)  sug- 
gests that  with  them  weakness  and  confusion  begin  to  ap- 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  bcvii 

pear  in  the  empire.  Judging  from  later  events,  it  is  probable 
that  g^ve  changes  were  in  operation  about  Babylon,  move- 
ments of  peoples  pressed  upon  and  pressing  in  upon  that 
land,  the  outcome  of  which  is  seen  in  the  establishment 
of  a  new  dynasty  upon  the  throne  and  the  appearing  of  a 
new  power  in  the  Mesopotamian  valley.  This  new  dynasty 
was  that  of  the  Kassites,  and  the  new  power  was  Assyria. 

The  beginnings  of  Assyria  are  unknown,  but  the  com- 
paratively late  date  of  its  appearance  in  history,  coupled 
with  the  fact  that  language,  institutions,  and  people  have 
a  Semitic  character,  and  that  decidedly  Babylonian,  sug- 
gests that  the  new  community  was  an  oflfshoot  or  colony  of 
Babylonia,  It  has  also  been  conjectured  with  much  plausi- 
bility that  its  appearance  and  activity  at  this  time  are  to 
be  connected  with  the  ascendency  of  the  new  and  foreign 
Kassite  people  in  Babylonia. 

The  Kassites,  if  our  chronology  is  reasonably  accurate 
here,  ruled  nearly  six  hundred  years  (about  1 730-1 150  B.  c.) 
over  the  Babylonian  plain.  The  non-Semitic  character  of 
the  names  and  titles  which  they  bear  upon  the  monuments 
has  convinced  modem  scholars  that  they  have  come  from 
the  region  of  the  northeast  of  Babylonia.  They  do  not 
seem  to  have  established  their  capital  at  Babylonia,  but  to 
have  preferred  a  more  central  point  in  the  plain,  and  at  the 
old  sacred  city  of  Nippur  many  remains  of  the  dynasty 
have  been  discovered. 

One  of  the  most  important  of  their  inscriptions  is  that 
of  King  Agum,  in  which  relations  with  the  Hittites  of 
the  north,  as  well  as  with  the  peoples  of  the  east,  seem  to 
be  indicated.  The  later  kings  of  the  dynasty  entered  into 
friendly  relations  with  the  kings  of  Egypt,  as  the  corre- 
spondence of  the  Tel-el- Amarna  tablets  indicates.  Though 
they  were  an  alien  people,  yet  they  were  early  assimilated 
to  the  higher  civilization  of  Babylonia,  and  they  con- 
tributed little  that  is  permanent  to  the  language  and  the 
life  of  the  Semitic  empire. 

The  chief  characteristic  of  the  period  of  the  Kassite 
kings,  however,  is  the  almost  constant  hostility  between 


Ixviii    ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

the  Babylonian  and  the  Assyrian  powers.  It  was  this  con- 
dition of  things  which  hindered  their  aggressive  activities 
and  made  it  possible  for  the  Egyptians  under  the  Pharaohs 
of  the  New  Empire  to  extend  its  boundaries  eastward  and 
northward  to  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates  and  into  Meso- 
potamia. 

What  is  known  of  the  almost  constant  and  devastating 
wars  of  this  period  is  preserved  in  the  so-called  synchro- 
nous history  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia,  which,  written  from 
an  Assyrian  point  of  view,  glorifies  perhaps  too  much  the 
Assyrian  progress.  But  there  can  be  no  doubt  but  that 
the  Kassite  dynasty  gradually  declined  in  power  until  at 
last  it  was  overthrown  and  a  native  dynasty  took  its 
place,  of  which  the  most  important  ruler  was  Nebuchad- 
rezzar I. 

But  though  the  Kassites  had  disappeared,  the  struggle 
with  Assyria  continued,  being  transformed,  as  it  seemed, 
from  a  struggle  against  conquerors  of  their  native  Baby- 
lonia into  an  ambition  to  recover  for  themselves  and  take 
possession  of  the  home  land. 

In  addition  to  this  complication  the  Semitic  Baby- 
lonians had  to  contend  about  this  time  with  a  new  antag- 
onist. The  Kaldi,  a  warlike  people  of  Arabian  brigin,  en- 
tered the  southern  part  of  the  plain,  and  at  first  occupying 
the  sea-coast,  began  to  press  northward  to  gain  possession 
of  the  gpreat  centres  of  Babylonian  life.  Henceforth  the 
ancient  state  was  harassed  from  north  and  south  by  her 
active  enemies.  Coincident  with  this  endeavour  to  pos- 
sess the  lower  Mesopotamian  plain  was  the  Assyrian  ambi- 
tion to  gain  possession  of  the  upper  valley,  over  which 
pass  the  routes  of  trade  to  the  west.  These  movements, 
at  times  hindered,  at  other  times  more  successful,  under 
kings  of  whom  we  know  hardly  more  than  their  names, 
seemed  about  to  be  carried  to  complete  success  in  the 
person  of  King  Tiglath-pileser  I  (1120-1100  b.  c).  His 
long  historical  inscription  testifies  to  his  campaigns  in  the 
north  and  east,  the  west  and  south,  in  which  he  reached  the 
Mediterranean  and  conquered  Babylon.    With  him  Assyria 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  Ixix 

began  to  undertake  that  task  of  world  conquest  in  which 
all  succeeding  kings  took  their  part. 

But  this  progress  was  not  destined  to  be  constant.  The 
two  sons  of  Tiglath-pileser  have  left  only  the  slightest  no- 
tices of  their  activity,  and  with  their  passing  a  decline 
begins  in  the  fortunes  of  Assyria,  lasting  for  at  least  a 
century.  The  chief  reason  fpr  this  seems  to  be  that  a 
new  and  irresistible  migration  of  people  from  northern 
Arabia  spread  over  the  Mesopotamian  and  Syrian  plains, 
forcing  the  Assyrians  back  upon  their  own  borders.  This 
was  the  so-called  Aramaean  migration,  the  presence  of 
which  in  Syria  is  testified  to  in  the  biblical  narrative  of 
the  wars  of  David  with  the  kingdom  of  Zobah  and  the 
relations  of  Solomon  with  the  newly  founded  kingdom  of 
Damascus. 

Darkness  settles  down  upon  the  Assyrian  kingdom  until 
Ramman-nirari  [Adad-nirari]  II  appears,  in  whose  brief 
inscription  are  mentioned  two  of  his  predecessors,  Ashur- 
dan  II  and  Tiglath-pileser  II,  the  latter  of  whom  seems  to 
have  been  the  founder  of  the  new  dynasty  by  which  As- 
syria's fortunes  were  to  be  re-established.  Ramman-nirari 
II  was  succeeded  by  Tiglath-adar  II,  and  he  by  Ashur- 
nagirpal  (884-860  b.  c),  with  whom  Assyria  was  to  take  a 
great  step  forward. 

It  has  often  been  remarked,  that  this  decline  of  Assyria 
(i  100-900  B.  c.)  was  a  providential  condition  of  the  rise  and 
splendid  development  of  the  kingdom  of  David  and  Solo- 
mon. The  Aramaeans  weakened  rthe  great  Eastern  empires 
and  made  any  movement  in  northern  Syria  impossible  dur- 
ing this  period,  while  they  themselves  were  not  sufiSciently 
organized  nor  had  penetrated  deeply  enough  into  southern 
Syria  to  threaten  the  Israelite  kingdom.  But  by  the  year 
884  B.  c.  all  had  changed,  and  on  every  side  the  oppor- 
tunity was  given  for  a  great  advance  of  Assyria.  The 
Aramaeans  had  settled  down  into  petty  kingdoms  on  either 
side  of  the  upper  Euphrates;  Babylonia  was  suffering  from 
the  invasion  of  the  Kaldi;  Egypt,  after  the  brilliant  reign  of 
Shishak  I,  had  fallen  into  decay,  and  the  splendid  organiza- 


Ixx        ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

tion  of  Solomon  had  split  into  the  petty  kingdoms  of  Israel 
and  Judah. 

Ashumagirpal  seems  to  have  devoted  himself  primarily 
to  the  recovery  of  the  Mesopotamian  plain  from  the  Ara- 
masans,  breaking  up  the  kingdoms  lying  about  the  upper 
waters  of  the  Euphrates.  He  made  an  expedition  into 
Syria,  the  date  of  which  is  quite  uncertain,  possibly  about 
875  B.  c,  in  which  he  reached  the  Mediterranean.  Its 
influence  upon  Palestine  may  have  been  hardly  more  than 
to  weaken  the  northern  Syrian  states,  and  thus  to  g^ve  a 
freer  hand  to  the  kingdom  of  Damascus  in  its  rising  hos- 
tility to  Israel.  No  doubt,  also,  all  Syria  now  began  to 
understand  that  a  new  development  of  the  military  king- 
dom lying  on  the  Tigris  had  begun. 

Under  Shalmaneser  II,  his  son  (860-825  b.  c),  the 
western  campaigns  were  vigorously  pursued.  First,  the 
Aramaean  kingdom  lying  in  the  great  bend  of  the  Eu- 
phrates was  demolished.  Then  the  river  was  crossed  and 
the  Syrian  states  attacked.  The  lesson  of  Ashumaqirpal 
had  been  heeded,  and  Shalmaneser  found  himself  face  to 
face  with  a  coalition  of  kingdoms  of  the  west  that  met  him 
in  854,  at  the  battle  of  Qarqar. 

That  Shalmaneser  II,  for  all  his  boast  of  victory  in  this 
battle,  had  suffered  in  the  conflict  with  the  west  is  shown 
by  the  fact  that  for  five  years  he  did  not  come  into  that 
region.  Not  until  849  do  we  hear  of  another  meeting 
with  the  Syrian  coalition.  Another  campaign  followed  in 
846,  another  in  842,  and  another  in  839.  In  the  two  latter 
campaigns  he  was  confronted  by  Hazael  of  Damascus,  who, 
according  to  2  Kings,  viii,  15,  had  usurped  the  throne  of 
that  kingdom.  It  was  shortly  after  842  that  on  the  Black 
Obelisk  of  Shalmaneser,  among  the  tributary  kings,  men- 
tion is  made  of  "  Jehu,  the  son  of  Omri,"  who  paid  tribute 
to  the  Assyrian  king. 

Shalmaneser  II  warred  also  against  Babylonia,  where 
a  dynastic  difficulty  between  two  brothers  gave  him  an  op- 
portunity of  intervening  to  secure  the  accession  of  his  can- 
didate in  circumstances  which  emphasized  the  superiority 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN   HISTORY  Ixxi 

of  Assyria.  His  campaigns  in  the  northeast  with  the  moun- 
tain tribes  are  less  significant. 

It  was  not  without  serious  strain  upon  the  resources  of 
the  Assyrian  Empire  that  this  tremendous  series  of  cam- 
paigns was  carried  on.  To  this  fact  is  perhaps  attributable 
the  revolt  led  by  a  son  of  the  king  which  troubled  the  last 
years  of  Shalmaneser  II,  and  which  he  left  to  be  overcome 
by  his  son  and  successor,  Shamshi-Ramman  II  (825-811). 
To  him  succeeded  Ramman-nirari  [Adad-nirari]  III  (811- 
782).  He  entered  the  west  once  more,  after  it  had  rested 
from  Assyrian  invasion  since  833.  The  Eponym  Canon 
records  a  four  years'  expedition  (806-803),  ^"^  an  inscrip- 
tion from  the  king  mentions  the  defeat  of  Damascus  and 
the  overthrow  of  its  king,  Mari,  and  the  extension  of  As- 
syrian authority  over  "  the  land  of  Omri."  The  king  seems 
to  have  made  his  arms  supreme  even  to  the  border  of 
Egypt,  though  whether  he  ever  entered  the  land  of  Israel 
with  his  army  is  doubtful. 

With  the  death  of  Ramman-nirari  III,  Assyria  falls  into 
another  temporary  decline.  This  is  indicated  by  the  ab- 
sence of  documents  from  the  three  kings  of  this  period, 
Shalmaneser  III  (782-773),  Ashurdan  III  (772-755),  and 
Ashur-nirari  (754-745)-  The  Eponym  list,  with  its  brief 
mention  of  pestilence  and  revolts,  testifies  to  the  inglorious 
condition  of  the  state.  Somfe  expeditions,  indeed,  into  the 
west  are  mentioned — one  against  Damascus,  one  against 
Arpad,  and  three  against  a  city  of  northern  Syria,  Hatarika 
— enough,  perhaps,  to  keep  down  the  strength  of  these 
kingdoms  without  extending  or  strengthening  the  Assyrian 

sway. 

With  Ashur-nirari  this  splendid  dynasty  of  Assyrian 
kings  which  had  ruled  for  more  than  a  century  came  to  an 
end.  One  who  did  not  belong  to  the  old  royal  line  suc- 
ceeded to  the  throne,  possibly  as  the  outcome  of  a  suc- 
cessful revolution — ^Tiglath-pileser  III.  He  introduced  a 
new  period  of  Assyrian  conquest.  He  is  the  first  Assyrian 
king  to  obtain  in  any  real  sense  the  title  of  King  of  Baby- 
lon.   A  revolution  had  taken  place  there  which  placed  on 


Ixxii     ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

the  throne  a  certain  Ukinzir,  a  Kaldu.  Tiglath-pileser 
marched  against  him,  and  after  two  campaigns  captured 
him  and  ascended  the  vacant  throne.  He  seems  to'  have 
reigned  in  Babylon  under  the  name  of  Pulu,  which  reap- 
pears in  the  bibHcal  narrative  of  2  Kings,  xv,  19.  In  the 
west,  where  Assyria's  activity  had  been  intermitted,  an 
opportunity  had  been  given  for  the  recovery  and  re-estab- 
lishment of  the  local  kingdoms.  Israel  and  Judah  seem 
to  have  been  able  to  take  advantage  of  this  opportunity. 
Jeroboam  II  (885-745)  brought  Israel  to  the  highest  point 
of  her  material  development.  Similar  prosperity  on  a 
smaller  scale  attended  the  long  reign  of  Uzziah  (Azariah)  in 
Judah. 

Tiglath-pileser  III,  however,  showed  himself  unwilling 
to  remain  the  nominal  head  of  the  west,  where  Assyria's  in- 
activity during  the  preceding  years  had  given  occasion  to 
vassal  cities  to  refuse  to  render  lawful  tribute.  In  743 
he  began  a  four  years'  campaign  against  Arpad,  a  city 
of  central  Syria.  Here  he  came  in  contact  with  the  sol- 
diers of  the  rising  kingdom  of  Urartu  or  Armenia,  which 
was  destined  to  become  the  rival  of  the  Assyrian  Empire. 
In  738  he  was  again  in  that  region,  to  overthrow  a  revolt 
which  centred  about  the  city  of  Hamath.  It  was  in  con- 
nection with  this  campaign,  apparently,  that  mention  is 
made  in  fragments  of  his  annals  which  have  come  down  to 
us  of  a  certain  Azariah  of  Judah,  who  is  the  leader  of  the 
revolt,  and  whom  he  defeats.  The  mention  of  this  King 
of  Judah,  apparently  the  same  as  Uzziah,  has  given  rise 
to  many  conjectures  and  explanations,  none  of  which  are 
altogether  satisfactory.  Among  the  tributary  kings  men- 
tioned in  the  course  of  this  campaign  is  Menahem  of  Sa- 
maria, and  it  is  interesting  to  bring  into  connection  with 
this  statement  of  the  Assyrian  king  the  passage  in  2  Kings, 
XV,  19,  20. 

Among  other  tribute-paying  kings  of  this  year  is  Rezon 
of  Damascus,  who,  however,  in  a  similar  tribute  list  of  four 
years  later,  is  not  mentioned.  Between  these  two  dates, 
therefore,  he  had  revolted.    Second  Kings,  xv,  37;  xvi,  5, 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  Ixxiii 

tells  how  he  united  with  Pekah  of  Israel  in  a  coalition  and 
made  war  upon  Joram  and  Ahaz  of  Judah  because,  as  has 
been  thought,  these  kings  would  not  unite  in  the  anti-As- 
syrian movement.  Judah  was  brought  into  great  straits, 
and  the  youthful  Ahaz,  against  the  earnest  admonition  of 
Isaiah,  his  prophet  counsellor,  sought  a  way  out  of  the 
difficulty  by  offering  tribute  to  Tiglath-pileser.  The  appeal 
was  successful.  The  Assyrian  advanced  into  the  west  in 
734,  and  for  two  years  marched  up  and  down  through  this 
region.  Rezon  was  shut  up  in  Damascus,  Israel  was  over- 
thrown. The  Assyrian  army  moved  southward  into  Phi- 
listia  as  far  as  Gaza.  On  its  return  march  Pekah  was  de- 
throned and  slain,  and  Hoshea  reigned  in  his  stead  as  a 
vassal  of  Assyria.  Damascus  was  captured,  Rezon  slain, 
and  the  whole  land,  with  the  exception  of  Israel,  was  made 
into  an  Assyrian  province. 

It  is  not  certain  whether  Shalmaneser  IV,  who  followed 
on  the  Assyrian  throne  (727-722  b.  c),  was  the  son  of  his 
predecessor,  since  from  his  short  reign  of  five  years  no 
monuments  have  come  down  to  us.  The  Eponym  Canon  is 
also  defective  for  his  reign,  and  our  information  concern- 
ing him  is  dependent  upon  the  few  statements  found  in  the 
Babylonian  chronicle  and  in  2  Kings,  xvii,  1-6.  It  appears 
that  Hoshea  paid  the  Assyrian  tribute  in  the  accession  year 
of  Shalmaneser,  being  overawed  by  the  presence  of  Shal- 
maneser's  army.  But  in  the  second  year  thereafter  he  re- 
volted, whereupon  the  Assyrian  ;king  invaded  Israel,  im- 
prisoned him,^  and  attacked  Samaria,  but  was  compelled  to 
besiege  it,  and  died  during  the  siege; 

His  successor  was  Sargon  (722-705  b.  c),  the  greatest 
of  all  the  Assyrian  kings.  He  brought  the  siege  of  Samaria 
to  a  successful  conclusion  in  722. 

,  The  real  cause  of  the  troubles  with  the  western  prov- 
inces was  the  attempt  of  Egypt  to  gain  influence  in  these 
regions.  The  Ethiopians  secured  control  of  the  Egyptian 
throne  with  the  twenty-fifth  dynasty,  and  its  first  king, 
Sabako,  proceeded  immediately  to  intrigue  in  the  Assyrian 
provinces.    Hoshea  of  Israel  seems  to  have  been  the  first 


Ixxiv    ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

victim  of  these  intrigues,  but  he  was  not  the  last.  A  king 
of  Hamath  revolted  and  succeeded  in  organizing  Arpad, 
Damascus,  and  Samaria  in  connection  with  Gaza  against 
the  Assyrian,  in  reliance  upon  promises  of  assistance  made 
by  the  King  of  Egypt.  Sargon  defeated  the  coalition  at 
the  battle  of  Raphia  in  720.  For  nine  or  ten  years  the  west 
was  quiet.  In  711  another  revolt  occurred,  the  centre  of 
which  was  the  city  of  Ashdod.  Sargon  sent  his  Turtan  to 
put  down  the  rebels,  and  the  expedition  is  referred  to  in 
the  twentieth  chapter  of  Isaiah.  An  inscription  fragment 
mentions  Judah  in  connection  with  this  rebellion  as  though 
it  was  a  tributary  state  which  had  joined  the  alliance  against 
Assyria.  In  view  of  this  fact  there  is  a  difference  of  opinion 
among  scholars  as  to  whether  Judah  was  punished  when 
the  rebellion  was  put  down.  No  satisfactory  evidence  on 
this  point  exists  either  in  the  inscriptions  or  in  the  Old 
Testament. 

The  great  achievements  of  Sargon  are  connected  with 
the  east,  rather  than  with  the  west.  It  was  he  who  gave 
the  death-blow  to  the  kingdom  of  Urartu.  In  a  series  of 
splendid  campaigns  he  cut  off  the  allied  tribes  east  and 
west,  and  in  714  b.  c.  attacked  the  centre  of  the  kingdom. 
Ursa,  the  king,  was  defeated  and  killed  himself.  Urartu 
was  made  an  Assyrian  province.  The  rising  power  of  the 
Kaldi  in  Babylonia,  as  represented  by  Marduk-bal-iddin, 
was  beaten  back  by  him.  This  Kaldu,  from  Bit  Jakin,  had 
entered  into  a  coalition  with  the  Elamites  and  other  neigh- 
bouring peoples,  and  in  721  b.  c,  proclaimed  himself  king 
of  Babylonia.  Sargon  at  once  gave  him  battle,  but  the 
result  was  indecisive.  Twelve  years  passed  before  he  mo- 
lested the  usurper.  Then,  in  710  B.  c,  he  led  his  armies 
south,  drove  out  the  Elamites,  routed  Marduk^al-iddin, 
and  was  crowned  king  of  Babylon  in  709  b.  c.  He  fol- 
lowed the  Kaldaean  into  his  land  and  plundered  it.  He 
spent  the  last  years  of  his  life  at  Babylon,  where  he  re- 
ceived the  homage  and  tribute  of  the  kings  of  his  immense 
domains.  Among  them  were  thirty  princes  of  the  Medes, 
who  were  appearing  in  the  east  on  Assyria's  borders  and 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  Ixxv 

were  beginning  to  consolidate  into  a  nation.  Assyria  was 
never  more  strong  or  prosperous  than  under  him.  He  was 
the  first  real  organizer  of  the  empire.  The  policy  of  de- 
portation, the  method  of  Assyrian  provincial  government, 
was  developed  by  him.  He  was  a  great  builder,  and  the 
remains  of  his  palace  exhibit  the  finest  examples  of  As- 
syrian architecture  and  art. 

Sargon  is  said  to  have  been  murdered  by  one  of  his 
soldiers.  His  son,  Sennacherib  (705-682  b.  c.)  succeeded. 
Marduk-bal-iddin  seems  to  have  chosen  the  opportunity  for 
the  organization  of  a  coalition  east  and  west  against  the 
Assyrian.  The  visit  of  his  ambassadors  to  Hezekiah  (2 
Kings,  XX,  12)  seems  to  have  had  this  object  in  view.  Sen- 
nacherib, however,  proceeded  immediately  against  Babylon, 
and  followed  up  the  defeat  of  the  Kaldi  by  an  expedition  to 
the  west  in  701.  First  the  Phcenician  states  were  subdued; 
Askalon  was  captured;  other  cities  of  Philistia  were  over- 
run; a  battle  was  fought  at  Altaku  with  the  Egyptian  army, 
which  was  driven  into  Egypt.  Sennacherib  then  turned 
to  Judah,  overran  the  country,  took  the  cities,  captured 
two  hundred  thousand  one  hundred  and  fifty  people,  car- 
ried oflf  great  booty,  and  shut  Hezekiah  up  in  Jerusalem. 
The  King  of  Judah  submitted  and  paid  tribute  to  save 
himself  and  his  capital.  Sennacherib  had  advanced  to 
Lachish,  where  he  received  the  tribute.  But  as  Sennach- 
erib advanced  farther,  he  feared  to  leave  behind  him  this 
citadel  in  possession  of  the  King  of  Judah,  and  sent  a  de- 
tachment, in  violation  of  his  agreement,  to  demand  its  sur- 
render. His  attempt  failed.  The  detachment  retired,  and 
shortly  after  that  strange  calamity  befell  the  Assyrian  army 
(2  Kings,  xix,  35)  concerning  which  the  inscriptions  are 
naturally  siknt.  It  is  doubtful  whether  Sennacherib  ever 
came  into  the  west  again,  though  the  reason  for  this  was 
probably  not  so  much  the  unhappy  issue  of  this  campaign 
as  the  fact  that  the  western  tributaries  had  no  more  spirit  to 
revolt. 

The  first  expedition  of  Sennacherib  against  Babylonia 
did  not  have  any  lasting  result.    In  700  b.  c.  he  entered  it 


Ixxvi    ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

again,  pressed  the  Kaldaean  back  to  the  sea-coast,  and  fol- 
lowed him  with  a  fleet.  During  his  absence  the  Elamites 
entered  the  land,  only  to  be  driven  back  on  his  return. 
All  elements  of  opposition  united  finally  against  him  in 
the  battle  of  Halule  (691  b.  c),  and  though  the  immediate 
result  was  undecided,  when  he  came  again  in  689  b.  c.  he 
was  unopposed.  Irritated  by  the  constant  opposition,  Sen- 
nacherib determined  to  destroy  the  ancient  city  of  Babylon, 
and  so  remove  the  cause  of  the  trouble.  The  city  remained 
in  ruins  till  the  reign  of  his  son. 

Sennacherib  fell  a  victim  to  the  ambition  of  two  of  his 
sons,  who  slew  him,  according  to  the  biblical  account,  while 
he  was  worshipping  in  a  temple.  His  third  son,  Esarhaddon, 
took  vengeance  upon  the  murderers,  and  succeeded  to  his 
father's  throne  (681-668).  He  altered  his  father's  policy 
with  regard  to  Babylon,  rebuilt  the  city,  and  made  it  the 
centre  of  his  empire.  He  seems  to  have  been  one  of  the 
best  of  the  Assyrian  rulers.  Egyptian  intrigues  induced 
the  western  states,  especially  Sidon,  to  revolt,  and  a  three 
years'  campaign  (680-678)  was  necessary  before  they  were 
subdued.  The  king  took  a  cruel  vengeance  upon  his  re- 
bellious subjects,  perhaps  with  the  design  of  making  other 
revolts  unadvisable.  In  an  inscription  of  Esarhaddon  dated 
about  675  there  appears  in  the  tribute  list  of  the  kings  of  the 
west  the  name  of  Manasseh,  King  of  Juda'h.  The  King 
of  Egypt,  the  vigorous  Taharka,  was  unwilling  to  leave  the 
western  cities  in  peace,  and,  after  a  time  succeeded  in  in- 
citing Baalu  of  Tyre  to  revolt.  Esarhaddon  perceived  that 
for  the  security  of  these  Mediterranean  cities  he  must  re- 
duce Egypt  to  submission,  and  in  674  and  671  he  advanced 
against  the  empire  upon  the  Nile.  In  the  latter  campaign, 
after  besieging  Tyre,  he  crossed  the  desert  and  entered 
Egypt,  fought  three  battles  ^in  quick  succession,  captured 
Memphis,  and  drove  Taharka  into  Ethiopia.  Another  ex- 
pedition was  made  in  669,  but  Esarhaddon  seems  to  have 
died  before  it  was  completed. 

A  brilliant  series  of  campaigns  was  made  by  the  king 
in  the  mountains  to  the  east  and  northeast  of  his  empire. 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  Ixxvii 

It  was  a  time  in  which  these  tribes  were  being  pushed  for- 
ward by  migrations  of  peoples  behind  them  like  those  of  the 
Kimmerians  in  the  north  and  the  Medes  in  the  east. 
Esarhaddon  determined  to  crush  them  in  their  own  fast- 
nesses and  prevent  them  forever  from  harassing  his  do- 
mains.   The  years  674-672  b.  c.  were  thus  occupied. 

His  son  and  successor,  Ashurbanipal  (668-626),  con- 
tinued the  aggressive  activity  of  the  father.  On  the  death 
of  Esarhaddon,  Taharka  had  returned  and  re-entered  Mem- 
phis. The  advancing  Assyrian  army  drove  him  out.  A 
conspiracy  was  formed  among  the  Egyptian  princes  to  re- 
store him,  led  by  Necho  of  Sais,  but  it  completely  failed. 
Finally,  in  662,  the  Ethiopians  were  driven  out  of  Egypt 
and  the  Assyrian  authority  there  was  supreme.  In  a  tribute 
list  of  Ashurbanipal,  from  about  the  year  667,  the  name 
of  Manasseh  of  Judah  occurs  again.  It  is  evident  that 
Judah  was  a  submissive  vassal  of  the  Assyrian  Empire.  As- 
syrian culture  followed  in  the  wake  of  Assyrian  armies,  and 
the  gradual  incorporation  of  the  western  states  into  the 
empire  brought  with  it  the  adoption  of  Assyrian  civiliza- 
tion, the  recognition  of  Assyrian  religion,  and  interest  in 
Assyrian  literature.  A  specific  instance  of  this  is  seen  in 
the  biblical  references  to  the  presence  of  Assyrian  culture 
and  religion  in  the  kingdom  of  Judah  in  the  times  of  Ahaz, 
Hezekiah,  and  Manasseh.  The  altar  which  the  former  saw 
at  Damascus,  and  copied,  was  in  all  probability  Assyrian. 
The  sun  dial  of  the  same  king  is  an  Assyrian  invention,  and 
the  idolatries  which  are  ascribed  to  Manasseh  bear  an  As- 
syrian stamp,  and  suggest  how  the  supremacy  of  the  armies 
of  Assyria  formed  a  strong  argument  in  favour  of  the  su- 
periority of  her  gods.  Some  writers  have  held  that  this 
period  probably  saw  the  introduction  of  much  of  that  Baby- 
lonian mythology  so  like  those  narratives  which  are  pre- 
served in  a  purified  form  in  the  early  chapters  of  Genesis. 

Ashurbanipal  did  not  follow  the  example  of  his  father  in 
establishing  his  seat  of  government  at  Babylon,  but  re- 
moved it  to  Nineveh,  placing  his  brother,  Shamashshum- 
ukin,  on  the  throne  as  vice-king  in  Babylon.    After  some 

F 


Ixxviii    ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

fifteen  years  the  brother  organized  a  formidable  conspiracy, 
embracing  the  King  of  Elam,  the  Kaldaeans,  and  the  cities 
of  the  west.  For  two  or  three  years  Ashurbanipal  bent  all 
his  energies  to  the  suppression  of  the  revolt,  and  when  it 
was  finally  overcome  in  648  b.  c,  and  the  subjugation  of 
Elam  followed,  Ashurbanipal  stood  at  the  height  of  his 
power.  Just  what  punishment  was  inflicted  upon  the  kings 
of  the  west  for  their  share  in  the  rebellion  we  do  not  know, 
but  the  explicit  narrative  of  2  Chron.  xxxiii,  11-13,  as  to 
the  Assyrian  attack  upon  Manasseh,  his  removal  to  Baby- 
lon, and  his  restoration  to  his  kingdom,  has  led  some 
scholars  to  place  this  event  in  connection  with  the  great  re- 
volt set  in  motion  by  the  brother  of  the  Assyrian  king. 
Treatment  parallel  to  that  of  Manasseh  is  recorded  by 
Ashurbanipal  in  the  case  of  Necho,  prince  of  Egypt. 

In  the  north  the  glory  of  Assyria  under  Ashurbanipal 
seemed  to  reach  the  climax.  Gyges,  King  of  Lydia,  hard 
pressed  by  the  Kimmerians,  sought  the  aid  of  the  Assyrians, 
and  proffered  his  submission.  Ashurbanipal  could  thus 
claim  to  have  extended  the  boundaries  of  the  empire  to  a 
region  which  his  fathers  had  not  known,  and  when  he  died 
Assyria  seemed  never  before  so  great  and  its  power  so 
imposing. 

Yet  brilliant  as  were  the  reigns  of  both  Esarhaddon  and 
Ashurbanipal,  they  mark  in  fact  the  period  of  Assyria's 
decline.  The  conquest  of  Egypt  was  a  necessity  for  the 
preservation  of  the  fidelity  of  the  western  provinces.  It 
was  never  incorporated  into  the  empire.  Esarhaddon's  vic- 
tories in  the  northeast  really  broke  down  the  power  of  those 
tribes  that  stood  as  a  barrier  against  the  Medes.  Ashur- 
banipal's  conquest  of  Elam  likewise  opened  the  way  for  the 
Persians  to  reach  the  Babylonian  border.  Therefore  hardly 
was  Ashurbanipal  in  his  grave  when  Assyria  hastened  rap- 
idly to  her  fall.  Of  these  last  years  we  are  very  imperfectly 
informed.  Two  sons  of  the  great  king  followed  him — the 
one,  Ashuretililani;  the  other,  Sinsharishkun.  A  great 
Scythian  invasion  swept  down  into  western  Asia.  The 
Medes  appeared  upon  the  heights  above  Nineveh.     The 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  Ixxix 

Kaldi  reached  the  summit  of  their  ambition  in  gaining  pos- 
session of  Babylonia.  The  two  joined  against  Assyria 
under  the  leadership  of  Cyaxares  the  Mede  and  Nabopol- 
assar  the  Kaldsean.  Against  these  united  forces  Nineveh 
made  no  long  resistance.  The  honour  of  the  final  assault 
seems  to  belong  to  the  Medes.  The  last  king,  his  court, 
and  his  people  perished  in  the  destruction  of  the  capital — 
even  the  date  is  not  known,  though  it  was  probably  about 
606  B.  c. 

During  these  three  hundred  years  Assyria  had  a  great 
career,  and  its  service  in  forwarding  the  progress  of  the 
world  was  important  and  indispensable.  It  was  the  first 
real  world  empire  that  had  thus  far  existed.  It  worked  out 
the  necessary  though  crude  beginnings  of  political  organi- 
zation on  a  large  scale — the  government  of  subject  peoples, 
the  unity  of  a  great  state.  In  this  empire  it  distributed  the 
elements  of  its  civilization.  Along  the  roads  under  its 
control  trade  and  commerce  advanced  from  east  to  west, 
and  with  trade,  art,  and  culture.  Thus  it  passed  on  the 
torch  of  civilization  to  Asia  Minor  and  Greece.  Cruel  as 
were  its  wars,  they  served  the  interests  of  civilization  in 
that  they  broke  down  and  annihilated  the  various  petty  and 
contending  nationalities  of  western  Asia,  welding  all  into 
a  rude  sort  of  unity  which  prepared  the  way  for  that  next 
attempt  of  man  to  realize  a  world  empire  which  was  under- 
taken under  the  leadership  of  another  family  of  peoples,  the 
Aryans.  The  Persian  Empire  would  not  have  been  had  not 
Assyria  done  its  work. 

The  conquerors  of  the  Assyrian  Empire  were  the  heirs 
to  its  possession.  Babylonia  under  its  King  Nabopolassar 
(625-605  B.  c.)  received  the  southern  and  western  prov- 
inces from  the  Tigris  to  the  Mediterranean.  The  task  of 
taking  possession  of  this  region  and  uniting  it  under  his 
sway  fell  to  his  famous  son,  Nebuchadrezzar  II  (604-562 
B.  c),  the  founder  of  the  new  Babylonian  Empire.  The 
years  that  had  marked  the  downfall  of  Assyria  had  seen  a 
vigorous  endeavour  on  the  part  of  the  Egyptian  Empire 
to  recover  its  position  in  the  life  of  the  Oriental  world. 


Ixxx      ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

This  took  the  form  of  an  attack  upon  the  provinces  of  Syria. 
Pharaoh  Necho  II,  taking  advantage  of  the  decay  of  As- 
syria, set  out  upon  his  northern  march  in  608,  and  for  sev- 
eral years  campaigned  in  this  region  up  to  the  Euphrates, 
in  the  course  of  which  movement  he  defeated  and  killed 
Josiah  of  Judah,  and  made  his  kingdom  an  Egyptian  de- 
pendency. But  Nebuchadrezzar,  who  went  against  him, 
utterly  defeated  him  in  the  battle  of  Carchemish  in  the  year 
604  B.  c,  drove  him  out  of  Syria,  and  took  possession  of 
the  whole  region  down  to  the  border  of  Egypt. 

A  rebellion  of  Jehoiakim  of  Judah  in  598  b.  c.  was  fol- 
lowed by  the  capture  of  Jerusalem  and  the  deportation  of 
the  leading  Jewish  citizens.  A  second  revolt  by  Zedekiah 
of  Judah,  entered  into  at  the  instigation  of  the  King  of 
Egypt  and  in  reliance  upon  his  help,  was  followed  by  the 
siege  of  Jerusalem  by  a  Babylonian  army,  its  capture  in 
586  B.  c,  and  the  annihilation  of  the  kingdom.  The  city 
of  Tyre,  which  had  joined  in  the  rebellion,  after  a  siege 
of  thirteen  years  was  compelled  to  acknowledge  Babylo- 
nian supremacy.  The  punishment  of  Egypt  followed  in 
568  B.  c.  Nebuchadrezzar  entered  the  valley  of  the  Nile, 
and,  while  he  did  not  make  Egypt  a  Babylonian  province, 
he  so  weakened  it  as  to  make  it  unable  henceforth  to  inter- 
fere in  Syria. 

More  important  than  the  wars  which  Nebuchadrezzar 
waged  were  the  measures  he  took  for  the  organization  and 
building  up  of  Babylon  and  the  Babylonian  state.  His  task 
in  this  respect  was  primarily  that  of  restoration  and  con- 
solidation. Babylonia  came  into  his  hands  shattered  by 
years  of  external  and  internal  conflict.  It  had  suffered  in 
struggles  with  foes  without  and  warring  factions  within. 
In  bringing  about  its  recovery  and  reorganization  he  de- 
voted himself  first  of  all  to  works  of  defence.  Babylon  had 
already  a  double  wall.  He  seems  to  have  built  about  it  a 
third  greater  wall.  He  improved  and  elevated  the  streets, 
lined  the  canals,  and  built  a  palace  which  was  at  the  same 
time  a  citadel.  It  is  not  improbable  that  the  so-called  Me- 
dian wall  built  across  the  narrow  neck  of  land  between  the 


BABYLONIAN-ASSYRIAN  HISTORY  Ixxxi 

Euphrates  and  the  Tigris  north  of  Babylon  goes  back  to 
him. 

He  devoted  himself  to  securing  the  industrial  and  com- 
mercial prosperity  of  Babylonia.  Now  as  never  before  was 
the  Euphrates  from  its  mouth  to  the  upper  waters  and  the 
roads  beyond  to  the  Mediterranean  under  one  government. 
The  contract  literature  of  his  age  is  a  speaking  witness  of  the 
successful  results  of  this  activity.  His  inscriptions  reveal 
his  care  for  the  canals  and  his  attention  to  the  inundations 
of  the  rivers. 

He  was  above  all  a  worshipper  of  the  gods,  especially  of 
Marduk  and  his  son  Nebo.  He  rebuilt  temples  in  Babylon 
and  other  cities,  and  in  every  way  showed  himself  anxious 
for  the  religious  welfare  of  his  land.  His  purpose  in  this 
as  in  others  of  his  activities  seems  to  have  been  the  unifica- 
tion of  the  people.  There  are  good  reasons  to  believe  that 
with  Nabopolassar  the  Kaldi  became  definitely  lords  of 
Babylon.  Nebuchadrezzar  was  a  Kaldasan.  But  his  aim 
was  to  make  Semitic  Babylonians  and  Kaldaeans  one  nation, 
having  one  religion.  That  he  succeeded  in  this  the  pros- 
perity of  his  kingdom  proves,  but  the  unity  did  not  have 
time  to  establish  itself  in  strength  and  vigour  under  his 
weaker  successors. 

The  personal  character  of  Nebuchadrezzar  is  one  which 
compares  favourably  with  any  of  the  Assyrian  monarchs. 
He  was  a  warrior;  here  his  Kaldaean  descent  distinguished 
him  from  the  Semitic  Babylonians,  whose  conquests  made 
his  empire  as  great  as  that  of  many  an  Assyrian  conqueror. 
He  was  a  statesman  in  his  conquests,  all  of  which  had  a 
purpose  in  forwarding  the  security  of  his  empire.  He  knew 
how  to  unify  and  give  prosperity  to  his  own  land.  He  was 
not  free  from  the  cruelty  inseparable  from  an  Oriental  war- 
rior, but  he  was  a  pious  worshipper  of  the  gods,  and  some 
of  the  utterances  in  his  own  inscriptions,  if  not  written,  yet 
sanctioned  by  him,  are  lofty  and  spiritual,  "  and  show," 
says  Tiele,  "  so  deep  and  true  a  religious  feeling  that  a 
devotee  of  Israel,  by  substituting  Jahveh  and  Jerusalem  for 
Marduk  and  Babylon,  could  take  them  upon  his  own  lips." 


CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Legend  concerning  the  Birth  and  Boyhood  of  Sargon  I 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper i 

A  Letter  from  Hammurabi  to  Sinidinnam* 

Translated  by  L.  W.  King 2 

Inscription  from  a  Cylinder  of  Hammurabi,  King  of 
Babylon 
Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 2 

The  Inscription  of  Agumkakrime 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Arnolt 3 

Inscription  of  Ramman-Nirari  I,  King  of  Assyria 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 6 

Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  I,  King  of  Babylon 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 8 

Inscription  of  Tiglath-pileser  I,  King  of  Assyria 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Arnolt 11 

Introduction  to  the  Annals  of  Ashurnacirpal,  King 
of  Assyria 
Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 28 

A  Votive  Inscription  of  Ashurnacirpal 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 29 

Inscription  of  Nabupalidin 

Translated  by  Preston  P.  Bruce 30 

The  Monolith  Inscription  of  Shalmaneser  II 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 33 

Ixxxv 


Ixxxvi    ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

rACB 

Fragment  of  the  Annals  of  Shalmaneser  II 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 44 

Inscription  over  the  Bas-Reliefs  on  the  Black  Obelisk 
OF  Shalmaneser  II 
Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 45 

Inscription  of  Shamshi-Ramman 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 45 

Inscription  of  Ramman-Nirari  III 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 50 

Inscription  of  Ramman-Nirari  III 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 51 

The  Nimrud  Inscription  of  Tiglath-pileser  III 

Translated  by  John  M.  P.  Smith 52 

The  Cylinder  Inscription  of  Sargon 

Translated  by  Alois  Bdrta 59 

The  Merodachbaladan  Stone  in  Berlin 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 64 

The  Taylor  Cylinder  of  Sennacherib,  King  of  Assyria 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 68 

The  Murder  of  Sennacherib 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 80 

Esarhaddon's  Accession  to  the  Throne,  and  the  Battle 
of  Hanigalbat 
Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 80 

Cylinder  A  of  the  Esarhaddon  Inscriptions 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 81 

Inscription   of   Esarhaddon    from    the    Black   Stone 
(Aberdeen) 
Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 88 

Inscription  of  Esarhaddon  on  the  Monolith  in  Berlin 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 90 


CONTENTS  Ixxxvii 

PACK 

Short  Inscriptions  of  Esarhaddon 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 93 

Annals  of  Ashurbanipal 

Translated  by  John  M.  P.  Smith 94 

Building  Operations  of  Ashurbanipal  in  Babylon 

Translated  by  John  M.  P.  Smith 1 27 

An  Inscription  of  Ashurbanipal  from  Aboo-Habba 

Translated  by  John  M.  P.  Smith 129 

Inscription  of  Shamash-shum-ukin 

Translated  by  John  M.  P.  Smith 130 

Inscription  of  Nabopolassar  (Hilprecht) 

Translated  by  Preston  P.  Bruce  .        .  .        .        .131 

Inscription  of  Nabopolassar  (Winckler  A) 

Translated  by  Preston  P.  Bruce 133 

Inscription  of  Nabopolassar  (Winckler  B) 

Translated  by  Preston  P.  Bruce 134 

East  India  House  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 134 

The  Winckler  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 143 

The  Grotefend  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 147 

The  Borsippa  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 150 

The  Babylon  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 152 

The  Senkereh  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 153 

The  Canal  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 154 


Ixxxviii     ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

PACK 

The  New  York  Inscription  of  Nebuchadrezzar  II 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 15S 

Inscription     from     the     Four     Clay    Cylinders    of 
Nabonidus 
Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 157 

The  Stele  of  Nabonidus 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 158 

Inscription  on  a  Clay  Cylinder  of  Nabonidus 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 163 

The  Annals  of  Nabonidus 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 168 

The  Cylinder  of  Cyrus 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 171 

Brick  of  Cyrus 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 174 

The  Large  Inscription  of  Darius  from  Behistun 

Translated  by  Preston  P.  Bruce 174 

The  Smaller  Ach^menian  Inscriptions 

Translated  by  Preston  P.  Bruce 187 

Inscription  of  Antiochus-Soter 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 194 

The  Synchronous  History  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia 

Translated  by  Alois  Birta 196 

The  Babylonian  Chronicle 

Translated  by  Alois  Birta 200 

The  Assyrian  Eponym-List 

Translated  by  Alois  Bdrta 206 

Assyrian  Eponym-List,  with  Notes 

Translated  by  Alois  Birta 209 

The  Tel-el-Amarna  Letters 

Translated  by  Ira  Maurice  Price 217 


CONTENTS  Ixxxix 

FAGS 

Assyrian  and  Babylonian  Letters* 

Translated  by  Christopher  Johnston 241 

Contracts 

Translated  by  George  Aaron  Barton  ...  .     256 

The  Babylonian  Account  of  the  Creation 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 282 

A  Second  Babylonian  Account  of  the  Creation 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 299 

Another  Account  of  the  Fight  between  Marduk  and 

TiAMAT 
Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 300 

Shorter  Babylonian  Legends 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Arnolt 304 

The  Gilgamesh  Narrative,  usually  called  the  Baby- 
lonian NiMROD  Epic 
Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 324 

Some  Other  Accounts  of  and  References  to  the  Deluge 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 369 

The  Magical  Texts  (Maqlu  and  Shurpu) 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 372 

A  Ritual  Tablet 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 399 

Ishtar's  Descent  to  Hades 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 408 

Oracles  given  in  Favour  of  Esarhaddon 

Translated  by  Clifton  Daggett  Gray 414 

Prayers  and  Hymns 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 420 

Penitential  Psalms 

Translated  by  Robert  Francis  Harper 433 


XC         ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

PAGB 

Some  Babylonian  Laws 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 445 

Some  Proverbs  and  Sayings 

Translated  by  William  Muss-Amolt 448 

The  Reports  of  the  Magicians  and  Astrologers  of 
Nineveh  and  Babylon* 
Translated  by  R.  Campbell  Thompson 45' 

Chronological  Table 

By  George  Stephen  Goodspeed 461 


Note. — All  except  those  marked  with  an  asterisk  were  translated 
specially  for  this  work,  and  the  translations  are  protected  by  D.  Apple- 
ton  and  Company's  copyright,  igoo. 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


FACING   PAGE 


Sir   Henry   RAWLINSON Frontispiece 

Photogravure  from  an  engraving 

Assault  of  a  City  by  Tiglath-Pileser  II  (III)  ...      54 

A  sculptured  slab  from  the  ruins  of  his  palace  at  Nimrud,  the 
ancient  Calah 

The  Eastern  World   in  the  Middle  of  the  Reign  of 

Ashurbanipal 196 

Babylonian  Account  of  the  Creation        ....    284 

Bilingual  tablet  from  Abu-Habbah,  the  ancient  Sippara 

Monolith  with  Sculptured  Portrait  of  Esarh addon  .    418 


ASSYRIAN    AND    BABYLONIAN 
LITERATURE 


LEGEND  CONCERNING  THE  BIRTH 
AND   BOYHOOD  OF  SARGON    I 

Corresponding  to  the  Moses  story  in  the  Old  Testament 

SARGON,  the  powerful  king,  King  of  Agade,  am  I. 
My  mother  was  of  low  degree,  my  father  I  did  not 
know. 

The  brother  of  my  father  dwelt  in  the  mountain. 

My  city  was  Azupirani,  situate  on  the  bank  of  the  Eu- 
phrates. 

(My)  humble  mother  conceived  me;  in  secret  she  brought 
me  forth. 

She  placed  me  in  a  basket-boat  of  rushes;  with  pitch  she 
closed  my  door. 

She  gave  me  over  to  the  river  which  did  not  (rise)  over  me. 

The  river  bore  me  along;  to  Akki,  the  irrigator,  it  carried 
me. 

Akki,  the  irrigator  in  the  *  *  *  brought  me  to  land. 

Akki,  the  irrigator,  reared  me  as  his  own  son. 

Akki,  the  irrigator,  appointed  me  his  gardener. 

While  I  was  gardener,  Ishtar  looked  on  me  with  love 
[and]   *  *  * 

*  *  *  four  years  I  ruled  the  kingdom. 

[Remnants  of  five  lines  too  badly  mutilated  for  trans- 
lation.] 


2  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

A    LETTER    FROM    HAMMURABI    TO 
SINIDINNAM 

This  is  the  letter  in  which  Scheil  and  Hommel  found  the  name  Ku- 
durlaggamar,  the  Chedorlaomer  of  the  Old  Testament.  Mr.  King  has 
shown  that  their  copies  of  the  text  and  translations  are  incorrect. 

To  Sinidinnam  from  Hammurabi. 

The  goddesses  of  Emytbalim,  which  are  assigned  to 
thee,  will  bring  to  thee  in  safety  the  troops  under  the  com- 
mand of  Inuhsamar.  When  they  reach  thee,  with  troops 
that  are  in  thy  hand,  destroy  the  people,  and  let  them 
bring  the  goddesses  in  safety  to  their  dwellings. 


INSCRIPTION    FROM    A   CYLINDER    OF 
HAMMURABI,    KING  OF   BABYLON 

(about    2  200   B.  C.) 

Hammurabi,  the  mighty  king.  King  of  Babylon,  king 
of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world,  the  founder  of  the  land, 
the  king,  whose  deeds  are  pleasing  to  Shamash  and  Mar- 
duk,  am  I. 

I  raised  the  battlements  of  the  wall  of  Sippara  like  a 
great  mountain,  with  a  swamp  (moat)  I  surrounded  it.  I 
dug  the  canal  of  Sippara  to  Sippara,  and  supported  it  with 
a  wall  of  safety. 

Hammurabi,  the  founder  of  the  land,  the  king,  whose 
deeds  are  pleasing  to  Sha!mash  and  Marduk,  am  I. 

I  settled  Sippara  and  Babylon  as  peaceful  habitations 
for  all  time. 

Hammurabi,  the  favourite  of  Shamash,  the  beloved  of 
Marduk,  am  I. 

That  which  from  days  of  old  no  king  had  built  for 
his  (?)  king,  for  Shamash,  my  lord,  I  have  gloriously 
accomplished. 


INSCRIPTION  OF   AGUMKAKRIME 


THE    INSCRIPTION    OF   AGUMKAKRIME 

I  AM  Agumkakrime,  the  son  of  Tasshigurumash;  the 
illustrious  descendant  of  god  Shukamuna;  called  by  Anu 
and  Bel,  Ea  and  Marduk,  Sin  and  Shamash;  the  powerful 
hero  of  Ishtar,  the  warrior  among  the  goddesses. 

I  am  a  king  of  wisdom  and  prudence;  a  king  who 
grants  hearing  and  pardon;  the  son  of  Tasshigurumash; 
the  descendant  of  Abirumash,  the  crafty  warrior;  the  first 
son  among  the  numerous  family  of  the  great  Agum;  an 
illustrious,  royal  scion  who  holds  the  reins  of  the  nation 
[and  is]  a  mighty  shepherd. 

I  am  king  of  the  country  of  Kasshu  and  of  the  Ak- 
kadians; king  of  the  wide  country  of  Babylon,  who  settles 
the  numerous  people  in  Ashnunak;  the  King  of  Padan  and 
Alman;  the  King  of  Gutium,  a  foolish  nation;  [a  king] 
who  makes  obedient  to  him  the  four  regions,  and  has 
always  been  a  favourite  of  the  great  gods. 

When  the  great  gods  with  their  lofty  command  ordered 
[of  me?]  the  return  of  Marduk,  the  lord  of  Esagila  and 
Ezida,  I  induced  Marduk  to  turn  his  face  toward  Babylon 
*  *  *  I  heeded  and  obeyed  [this  command?],  induced  Mar- 
duk to  betake  himself  to  Babylon,  and  went  by  the  side 
of  Marduk  and  ^arpanit.  I  consulted  Shamash  by  means  of 
the  lamb  of  an  haruspex  and  sent  [him?]  to  the  far-oflf 
country  of  Hani.  He  took  the  hands  of  Marduk  and  Qar- 
panit,  who  favour  my  government,  and  brought  them  back 
to  Esagila  and  Babylon.  I  put  them  into  the  rear  shrine 
of  the  house  of  Shamash,  when  he  brought  them  back,  and 
ordered  my  workmen  to  place  them  there  securely.  A 
goldsmith  [I  then  commanded  to  make  splendid  robes  for 
Marduk  and  Qarpanit] ;  I  gave  for  these  robes  of  Marduk 
and  Qarpanit  four  talents  of  fine  gold,  and  clothed  the  gods 
with  a  stately  robe,  a  garment  made  of  fine  gold.  I  also 
gave  for  [the  decoration  of]  the  shrines  of  Marduk  and 
^arpanit  mountain-crystals,  rnarhashu-stones  of  greenish 
hue,  hulal-ini-stones,  mushgarru-stones,  utru-  and  uthal- 


4  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Stones,  pearls  (?)  of  Meluhha,  alabaster  (?),  precious,  shin- 
ing stones,  and  brilliant  stones, of  great  renown,  and  be- 
decked therewith  the  robes  of  the  great  gods.  I  placed 
upon  their  heads  high  turbans,  of  the  shape  of  horns;  tur- 
bans indicating  the  royal  rule,  as  befitted  their  divinities, 
and  decorated  them  with  the  majestic  splendour  produced 
by  crystal  and  gold.  The  top  of  the  turban(s)  I  orna- 
mented with  ini-mushgarru-  and  menishutu-stones;  and  I 
decked  the  whole  turbans  with  hulalu-,  mushgarru-,  pi- 
marhashi-stones,  with  crystals  and  utru-stones. 

The  dragon  upon  which  the  divine  majesties  rode  I 
decked  with  [a  covering]  of  gold.  [Lacuna  of  fourteen 
lines.]  I  surrounded  and  ornamented  [with  the  same  ma- 
terial] its  stall;  I  constructed  a  sea  (for  the  dragon);  I 
ornamented  its  breast  with  hulalu-,  hulal-inu-,  and  utru- 
stones,  and  put  around  its  gills  (?)  a  wreath  of  gold,  crystal, 
ka-stone,  and  hulalu-stones.  I  also  deposited  in  the  r[ear 
shrine?]  a  precious  treasure,  a  fine  treasure  of  pearls,  hu- 
lalu-stone,  pi-marhashi-stones  of  greenish  hue,  hulalu 
and  other  precious  stones  *  *  *  I  placed  them  above  his 
habitation,  built  of  cedar-wood,  and,  in  order  that  (?)  I 
might  let  them  occupy  places  suitable  for  their  great  divini- 
ties, and  that  the  workmen  might  finish  (the  work?),  I 
sent  [men?]  to  the  cedar  and  cypress  districts  *  *  *  to  a 
splendid  mountain,  whose  odour  is  fragrant;  and  from 
these  splendid  mountains  they  brought  cedars  and  cy- 
presses *  *  *  I  made  also  large  gates,  gates  of  cedar-wood, 
swinging  doors;  and  I  placed  them  at  the  chambers  of 
Marduk  and  ^arpanit,  and  [fitted  them  out]  with  bands 
of  [shining?]  bronze.  Their  *  *  *  I  inclosed  with  fas- 
tenings of  shining  bronze.  I  filled  in  [pictures  of?]  a  ser- 
pent, a  dragon,  a  ram,  a  storm-goat,  a  mad  hound,  a  fish- 
man,  a  goatfish,  made  of  crystal,  of  dushu-  and  samtu- 
stones,  and  of  alabaster.  I  made  them  resplendent,  and 
set  up  these  fine  beautiful  gates  in  the  chambers  of  Mar- 
duk and  garpanit.  I  also  had  a  priest  (literally,  a  snake- 
charmer)  purify  Esagila.  After  I  had  purified  (and  dedi- 
cated) the  habitations  (of  the  gods?)  *  *  *  i  brought 


INSCRIPTION  OF  AGUMKAKRIME 


S 


them  through  the  Kasushi-gate  into  the  chamber  dedi- 
cated to  Marduk.  I  arranged  gfreat  festivals  for  them;  I 
filled  with  splendour  the  house  of  [their]  joy  (?),  and 
gave  it  as  a  present  to  my  lord  and  my  lady. 

I  sacrificed  unto  Marduk  a  great  [offering?]  of  gold, 
a  great  [offering?]  of  crystal,  a  great  offering  of  silver. 
Unto  the  gods,  (residing)  in  Esag^la  I  gave  presents  of  silver 
and  gold.  After  I  had  thus  appointed  unto  Esagila  (all 
that  was)  good  and  splendid  *  ♦  *  [Lacuna  of  sixteen 
lines]  *  *  * 

Nur-ilu,  together  with  his  house,  his  field,  and  his 
forest;  Ikisha-ilu,  the  priest,  together  with  his  house,  his 
field,  and  his  forest,  as  well  as  Mardukmuballit,  the  metal- 
worker, with  his  house,  his  field,  and  his  forest  [I  made 
servants  of  the  temple] . 

To  Agum,  who  built  the  shrine  of  Marduk  and  reno- 
vated Esagila,  who  led  Marduk  into  his  abode,  and  as  a 
service  (for  him)  released  from  every  obligation  those 
workmen,  with  their  houses,  fields,  and  forests,  so  that  they 
might  serve  Marduk  and  Qarpanit  [be  merciful?] ! 

May  the  days  of  Agum  be  long,  and  may  his  years 
be  many;  may  his  rule  be  filled  with  (all  that  is)  good! 

May  the  brightness  of  the  wide  heavens  shine  upon 
him,  and  may  the  clouds  grant  (abundant)  rain  unto  him! 

May  Marduk  cause  the  orchards  to  bear  good  fruit 
always! 

May  Anu  and  Antum,  who  live  in  heaven,  send  a 
blessing  upon  Agum,  the  good  king,  who  built  the 
sanctuaries  of  Marduk  and  freed  from  obligations  the 
workmen! 

May  Bel  and  Belit,  who  reside  in  Ekur,  cast  for  him 
the  lot  of  his  life! 

May  Ea  and  Damkina,  residing  in  the  great  ocean, 
grant  him  life  for  many  days! 

May  the  great  goddess,  the  mistress  of  wide  countries, 
make  perfect  his  lot! 

May  Sin,  the  luminary,  grant  him  royal  seed  for  future 
days! 


-6  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

May  the  lord  Shariiash,  th6  lord  of  heaven  and  earth, 
lay  firmly  the  foundations  of  his  royal  throne  for  future 
days! 

May  Ea,  the  lord  of  the  deep,  perfect  his  wisdom! 

May  Marduk,  the  lord  of  wells,  who  loves  his  reign, 
make  his  rich  blessings  complete! 

Tablet  [of  the  library]  of  Ashurbanipal,  king  of  the 
world,  King  of  Assyria,  who  puts  his  trust  in  Ashur  and 
Belit,  and  in  the  lord  that  knows  the  light  (?),  the  king  of 
the  gods,  Ashur.  Whosoever  removes  the  tablet,  or  sub- 
stitutes his  name' for  mine,  may  Ashur  and  Belit  overthrow 
him  in  anger  and  wrath,  blot  out  his  name  and  his  family 
from  off  the  land! 


INSCRIPTION    OF    RAMMAN-NIRARI    I, 
KING  OF  ASSYRIA  (about  1325  b.  c.) 

From  a.  stone  tablet  found  at  Kileh  Shergat 

Ramman-NirAri,  the  illustrious  prince,  the  pride  of 
God,  the  master,  the  viceroy  of  the  gods,  the  founder  of 
cities,  the  destroyer  of  the  mighty  hosts  of  the  Kassites, 
the  Kuti,  the  Lulumi  and  the  Shubari,  annihilator  of  all 
foes  above  and  below,  who  trampled  under  foot  their  lands 
from  Lupdu  and  Rapiku  as  far  as  Eluhat,  who  took  pos- 
session of  all  men,  who  enlarged  boundary  and  frontier; 
the  king  for  whom  the  gods  Anu,  Ashur,  Shamash,  Ram- 
man,  and  Ishtar  have  brought  all  rulers  and  princes  to 
submission  at  his  feet,  the  exalted  priest  of  Bel,  the  son  of 
Puduilu,  governor  of  Bel,  the  representative  of  Ashur,  the 
conqueror  of  Turuki  and  Nigimti  to  their  entire  extent,  all 
of  (their)  rulers,  (their)  mountains  and  highlands,  the 
boundary  of  the  wide-spread  Kuti,  the  district  (?)  of  the 
Ahlami  and  the  Suti,  the  Yauri  and  their  lands,  who  en- 
larged boundary  and  frontier;  the  grandson  of  Bel-Nirari, 
priest  of  Ashur,  who  destroyed  the  hosts  of  the  Kassites, 


INSCRIPTION   OF   RAMMAN-NIRARI   I  7 

and  whose  hand  conquered  all  his  enemies,  who  enlarged 
boundary  and  frontier;  the  great-grandson  of  Ashur- 
uballit,  the  mighty  king,  whose  priesthood  was  all-power- 
ful in  the  temples  and  whose  royal  prosperity  was  estab- 
lished unto  distant  (lands)  as  firmly  as  a  mountain,  who 
broke  up  the  forces  of  the  wide-spread  Shubari,  who  en- 
larged boundary  and  frontier. 

When  the  muq-la-la  of  the  Temple  of  Ashur,  my  lord — 
which  is  [opposite]  the  gate  (called)  "  The  invocation  of 
the  god  of  the  land  "  and  the  gate  (called)  "  The  god  of 
judges,"  which  had  been  built  in  former  days — had  fallen 
into  decay,  had  collapsed  and  was  in  ruins,  I  strengthened 
that  place,  I  reached  its  base,  I  (re)built  (it)  with  granite 
and  earth  from  Ubase,  I  restored  (it)  to  its  place  and  I 
set  up  my  tablet.  In  future  days,  let  a  future  prince, 
when  that  place  shall  have  grown  old  and  fallen  into  decay, 
repair  its  ruins;  my  tablet,  the  record  of  my  name,  let  him 
restore  to  its  place,  that  Ashur  may  hearken  to  his  prayers. 
But  whosoever  blots  out  the  record  of  my  name  and  in- 
scribes his  own  name,  or  conceals  my  tablet,  or  consigns 
it  to  destruction,  or  casts  it  into  the  stream,  or  burns  it 
in  the  fire,  or  throws  it  into  the  water,  or  covers  it  with 
earth,  or  brings  and  places  it  in  a  dark  (?)  house,  where 
it  can  not  be  seen;  or  if  (any  one)  because  of  these  curses, 
a  foreign  foe,  an  evil  enemy,  a  (man  of)  hostile  tongue,  or 
any  other  man  sends  and  causes  (him)  to  seize  it,  or  if 
he  makes  any  scheme  and  carries  it  out: 

May  Ashur,  the  exalted  god,  who  dwells  in  Eharsag- 
kurkura,  Anu,  Bel,  Ea,  and  Ishtar,  the  great  gods,  the 
Igigu  of  heaven,  the  Anunnaku  of  earth,  all  of  them,  look 
upon  him  in  anger  and 

May  they  curse  him  with  an  evil  curse  in  wrath! 

May  they  destroy  his  name,  his  seed,  his  relatives,  and 
his  family  in  the  land! 

May  the  ruin  of  his  land,  the  destruction  of  his  people 
and  of  his  territory  at  their  weighty  command  be  decreed! 

May  Ramman  with  a  terrible  rainstorm  overwhelm 
him! 


8  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

May  flood,  destructive  wind,  rebellion,  revolution, 
tempest,  want  (and)  famine,  drought  (and)  hunger  be  con- 
tinuous in  his  land! 

May  he  come  down  upon  his  land  like  a  flood! 

May  he  turn  (it)  into  mounds  and  ruins! 

May  Ramman  strike  his  land  with  a  destructive  bolt! 

The  month  of  Muhur  of  the  gods,  twentieth  day,  epon- 
ymy  of  Shulmanu-Karradu. 


INSCRIPTION   OF   NEBUCHADREZZAR   I, 
KING  OF   BABYLON   (about  1140  b.  c.) 

At  the  time  that  Nebuchadrezzar,  the  lofty  and  majes- 
tic prince,  King  of  Babylon,  pre-eminent  among  kings, 
the  warlike  patesi,  the  governor  of  Babylon,  the  sun  of 
his  country,  who  makes  his  people  to  prosper,  who  pre- 
serves boundaries  and  establishes  land-marks  (?),  the  just 
king,  who  pronounces  righteous  judgment,  the  warlike 
hero,  whose  resources  are  devoted  to  battle,  the  bearer  of 
the  mighty  bow,  who  fears  no  battle,  who  overthrew  the 
mighty  land  of  the  Lullubi  with  his  weapons,  the  conqueror 
of  the  west-land,  the  plunderer  of  the  Kassites,  who  sets 
up  kings,  the  prince  beloved  of  Marduk — ^the  king  of  the 
gods,  Marduk,  commissioned  him,  and  he  advanced  his 
weapons  to  avenge  Akkad.  From  Der,  the  city  of  Anu, 
he  spread  slaughter  for  thirty  double-miles.  In  the  month 
of  Tammuz  he  set  out  upon  a  campaign;  the  *  *  *  burned 
like  fire,  and  the  sand  (?)  of  the  road  scorched  like  a  flame; 
there  was  no  water  for  *  *  *  and  the  supply  of  drink- 
ing-water was  cut  oflf;  the  splendid  mighty  steeds  stood 
still,  and  the  nerve  of  the  brave  heroes  failed.  The  majes- 
tic king  advances,  the  gods  urging  him  on,  Nebuchad- 
rezzar marches  forward,  who  has  no  rival,  who  does  not 
fear  the  difficult  country  *  *  *  Ritti-Marduk,  the  head  of 
the  house  of  Karziyabku,  his  charioteer,  did  not  remain  (?) 


INSCRIPTION  OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR  I  g 

at  the  right  hand  of  the  king,  his  lord,  but  pushed  forward 
his  chariot.  The  mighty  king  hastened  and  came  to  the 
bank  of  the  Ula.  Then  the  kings  took  their  stand  round 
about  to  make  battle,  fire  flashed  forth  in  their  midst,  the 
face  of  the  sun  was  darkened  by  the  dust,  the  hurricane 
broke  loose,  the  storm  raged.  In  the  storm  of  their 
battle,  the  charioteer  does  not  see  the  man  by  his  side.  Ritti- 
Marduk,  the  head  of  the  house  of  Karziyabku,  his  chariot- 
eer, did  not  remain  (?)  at  the  right  hand  of  the  king,  his 
lord,  but  pushed  forward  his  chariot.  He  did  not  fear 
battle,  but  proceeded  against  the  enemy,  and  entered  against 
the  enemy  of  his  lord  *  *  *  By  the  command  of  the  gods, 
Ishtar  and  Ramman,  the  lords  of  battle,  he  spread  disaster 
broadcast,  and  overthrew  the  country  of  the  King  of  Elam, 
and  the  King  Nebuchadrezzar  remained  the  victor,  seizing 
Elam  and  carrying  away  its  possessions.  As  soon  as  he 
had  turned  back  to  Akkad,  victorious  and  joyful  of  heart, 
Nebuchadrezzar,  the  king,  his  lord,  gave  direction  to  Ritti- 
Marduk,  the  head  of  the  house  of  Karziyabku,  whom  the 
king,  his  lord,  had  put  to  the  test  among  the  enemies  and 
hostile  warriors,  concerning  the  cities  of  the  house  of 
Karziyabku,  a  district  of  Namar,  as  much  as  there  was  of 
it,  which  under  former  kings  had  been  independent,  but 
through  enemies  had  illegally  come  under  the  dominion  of 
Namar;  and  the  king  rendered  a  decision,  and  the  cities 
(received)  their  freedom  as  in  former  times:  within  the 
entire  dominion  of  Namar,  the  servants  of  the  king,  as  well 
as  the  governor  of  Namar  (and)  the  commandant,  are  not 
to  enter  a  city;  the  master  of  the  horses  is  to  bring  neither 
stallions  nor  mares  into  the  cities;  revenue  of  oxen  or 
sheep  for  the  king  or  the  governor  of  Namar  is  not  to  be 
taken;  a  *  *  *  or  an  homer  of  balsam  is  not  to  be  given; 
an  homer  is  not  to  be  given  to  the  tax-gatherer;  the  master 
of  the  riding-horses  is  not  to  enter  the  cities;  nor  is  he 
to  take  therefrom  mares  for  the  riding-horses;  nor  is  any 
one  to  cut  down  the  hedges  of  the  parks  or  date-palm 
groves;  along  the  wall  of  Bit-Shamash  or  Shanbasha  no 
one  is  to  build  a  bridge  or  make  a  road;  neither  are  the 


lO  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

soldiers  of  Nippur  or  Babylon,  nor  any  of  the  soldiers  of 
the  king,  as  many  as  reside  in  the  cities  of  the  house  of 
Karziyabku,  to  cause  the  arrest  of  any  one  either  in  city 
or  in  field. 

From  the  entire  dominion  of  Namar,  Nebuchadrezzar, 
the  king  of  the  world,  freed  the  cities  of  Ritti-Marduk,  the 
son  of  Karziyabku,  the  territory  belonging  to  Namar,  as 
much  as  there  was  of  it,  for  all  time,  and  he  appointed  th^ 
soldiers,  who  dwelt  in  these  cities,  for  the  special  support 
of  the  governor  of  Namar  and  the  commandant. 

At  the  declaration  of  freedom  of  these  cities  there  were 
present  Nazi-Marduk,  the  son  of  Kurkame,  the  kalu  of 
Akkad;  Arad-Nana,  the  son  of  Mudammiq-Ramman,  the 
secretary  of  state;  Marduk-kuduri-ugur,  the  minister  of 
Bel;  Tubia-enna,  an  officer;  Muqqut-gish-ge,  the  son  of 
Qapri,  the  keeper  of  the  palace-gate;  Shamash-nadin-shum, 
the  son  of  Atta-iluma,  the  governor  of  Ishin;  Bau-shum- 
iddin,  the  son  of  Hunna,  the  governor  of  Babylon;  Balatsu- 
Gula,  the  son  of  Arad-Ea,  the  prefect;  Marduk-kin-apli, 
the  son  of  Himile,  the  keeper  of  the  treasure  (?);  Arad- 
Gula,  the  son  of  Kalbi,  the  governor  of  Ushti;  Tab-ashab- 
Marduk,  the  son  of  Esaggilzir,  the  governor  of  Halman; 
Bel-nadin-shum,  the  son  of  Habban,  the  governor  of  Na- 
mar; and  Nabu-kuduri-uqur,  the  commandant  of  Namar. 

The  scribe  who  wrote  this  tablet  was  Bel-tabni-bullit, 
the  seer. 

Whenever  in  after  time,  be  it  by  the  sons  of  Habban, 
or  any  one  else  who  is  placed  in  the  governorship  of  Na- 
mar, be  it  the  mayors  of  Namar,  small  or  great,  as  many 
as  there  are  of  them,  of  the  cities  of  the  house  of  Karzi- 
yabku, which  the  king  has  freed  from  the  dominion  of 
Namar,  there  is  one  who  does  not  reverence  the  king  or 
his  gods  and  turns  and  establishes  a  dominion,  and  obHtef 
ates  the  name  of  the  god  and  the  king,  as  it  stands  written, 
and  writes  in  another  (name),  or  employs  a  fool,  a  deaf 
man,  a  blind  man,  or  a  knave  to  destroy  this  tablet  with  a 
stone,  or  to  burn  it  in  the  fire,  or  to  cast  it  into  the  river, 
or  to  hide  it  in  a  field  where  it  can  not  be  found: 


INSCRIPTION   OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  I  n 

May  the  great  gods,  as  many  as  are  mentioned  in 
heaven  and  earth,  curse  that  man  with  fury;  may  god  and 
king  cover  him  deep  with  disgrace! 

May  Ninib,  the  king  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  Gula,  the 
mistress  of  E-sharra,  destroy  his  boundaries  and  blot  out 
his  seed ! 

May  Ramman,  the  chief  one  in  heaven  and  earth,  the 
lord  of  canals  and  rains,  fill  his  rivers  with  obstructions, 
bring  upon  him  hunger  and  want,  and  bind  upon  him  dis- 
tress, frailty,  and  mischief! 

May  frailty  fasten  its  grip  (?)  upon  the  inhabitants  of 
his  city! 

May  Shumalia,  the  mistress  of  the  snow-capped  moun- 
tains, who  dwells  upon  the  summits  and  traverses  the 
peaks;  may  Ramman,  Nergal,  and  Nana,  the  gods  of  Na- 
mar;  may  Shir,  Shubu,  the  son  of  the  temple  of  Der,  Sin, 
and  the  Lady  of  Akkad,  the  gods  of  the  house  of  Habban 
— may  these  great  gods  in  the  anger  of  their  heart  medi- 
tate evil  against  him! 

May  another  acquire  the  house  which  he  has  built! 

With  a  dagger  in  his  neck  and  a  *  *  *  in  his  eyes, 
may  he  cast  himself  upon  his  face  before  his  captor,  and 
may  he,  unmindful  of  his  pleading,  cut  off  his  life! 

In  the  overturning  of  his  house  may  his  hands  roll  in 
mire! 

As  long  as  he  lives  may  he  drag  sorrow  after  him,  and 
as  long  as  heaven  and  earth  stand  may  his  seed  be  blotted 
out! 


INSCRIPTION    OF    TIGLATH-PILESER    I, 
KING  OF  ASSYRIA  (about  iioo  b.  c.) 

AsHUR,  great  lord,  ruler  of  the  divine  host, 
who  bestows  sceptre  and  crown,  and  establishes  the  (legiti- 
mate) dominion; 
Bel,  lord,  and  king  of  all  the  spirits  of  the  deep, 
father  of  the  gods,  and  lord  of  the  countries; 


12  ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Sin,  the  wise,  lord  of  the  (moon)  disk, 
rich  in  splendour; 

Shamash,  judge  of  heaven  and  earth,  who 
thwarts  the  plotting  of  the  enemies  and  protects  the  good; 
Adad,  the  powerful,  who  rains  destruction  upon  the  hos- 
tile regfions, 
rendering  them  ruined  and  desolate  (?) ; 
Ninib,  the  hero,  who  crushes  the  wicked  and  the  enemy 
and  lets  me  attain  my  heart's  desire; 
Ishtar,  princess  among  the  gods,  mistress  of  destruction, 
who  unchains  the  terrors  of  war: 
Ye  great  gods,  guardians  of  heaven  and  earth, 
whose  onset  brings  fight  and  battle; 
who  have  enlarged  the  dominion 
of  Tiglath-pileser,  the  beloved  prince, 
the  desire  of  your  heart,  the  lofty  shepherd; 
whom  in  your  faithful  heart,  ye  have  called; 
whose  head  ye  have  crowned  with  a  lofty  crown, 
whom  ye  have  solemnly  appointed  to  the  dominion  over 

the  country  of  Bel; 
to  whom,  for  the  sake  of  power,  ye  have  granted 
supremacy,  majesty,  and  valour,  the  prerequisites  of 
his  lordship,  and  whose  priestly  seed 
ye  have  called  to  a  seat 
forever  in  E-har-sag-kur-kur-ra. 

Tiglath-pileser,  the  powerful  king,  king  of  hosts,  who 
has  no  rival,  king  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world),  king 
of  all  rulers,  lord  of  lords,  king  of  kings;  the  lofty  prince, 
to  whom,  in  the  name  of  Shamash,  a  pure  sceptre  was 
given,  and  who  rules  over  the  nations,  the  subjects  of  Bel, 
in  their  entirety;  the  legitimate  shepherd  whose  name  is 
exalted  above  all  rulers;  the  lofty  judge,  whose  weapons 
Ashur  has  sharpened,  and  whose  name,  as  ruler  over  the 
four  quarters  (of  the  world),  he  has  proclaimed  forever; 
the  conqueror  of  distant  lands,  which  form  the  boundaries 
on  north  and  south;  the  brilliant  day,  whose  splendour 
overthrows  the  world's  regions;  the  terrible,  destroying 
flame,  which  like  the  rush  of  the  storm  sweeps  over  the 


INSCRIPTION   OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  I  13 

enemy's  country;  who,  in  the  name  of  Bel,  has  no  adver- 
sary, and  overthrows  the  foes  of  Ashur. 

Ashur  and  the  g^eat  gods  who  have  enlarged  my  king- 
dom, who  have  given  me  strength  and  power  as  my  por- 
tion, commanded  me  to  extend  the  territory  of  their  (the 
gods')  country,  putting  into  my  hand  their  powerful  weap- 
ons, the  cyclone  of  battle.  I  subjugated  lands  and  moun- 
tains, cities  and  their  rulers,  enemies  of  Ashur,  and  con- 
quered their  territories.  With  sixty  kings  I  fought, 
spreading  terror  (among  them),  and  achieved  a  glorious 
victory  over  them.  A  rival  in  combat,  or  an  adversary  in 
battle,  I  did  not  have.  To  Assyria  I  added  more  land,  to 
its  people  I  added  more  people,  enlarging  the  boundaries 
of  my  land  and  conquering  all  (neighbouring?)  territories. 

In  the  beginning  of  my  government,  five  kings  of  the 
Moschi  with  an  army  of  twenty  thousand  men,  whose  an- 
cestors had,  for  fifty  years,  conquered  Alzi  and  Purukuzzu 
— the  latter  formerly  tributaries  and  vassals  of  Ashur,  my 
lord — and  whose  power  no  king  had  ever  broken  and  over- 
come in  battle — trusting  to  their  strength  rushed  down 
and  conquered  the  land  of  Qummuh  (Commagene).  With 
the  help  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  gathered  my  war  chariots  and 
assembled  my  warriors;  I  made  no  delay,  but  traversed 
Kashiari,  an  almost  impassable  region.  I  waged  battle  in 
Qummuh  with  these  five  kings  and  their  twenty  thousand 
soldiers  and  accomplished  their  defeat.  Like  the  Thun- 
derer (the  storm  god  Adad)  I  crushed  the  corpses  of  their 
warriors  in  the  battle  that  caused  their  overthrow.  I  made 
their  blood  to  flow  over  all  the  ravines  and  high  places  of 
mountains.  I  cut  off  their  heads  and  piled  them  up  at  the 
walls  of  their  cities  Hke  heaps  of  grain.  I  carried  oflF  their 
booty,  their  goods,  and  their  property  beyond  reckoning. 
Six  thousand,  the  rest  of  their  troops,  who  had  fled  before 
my  weapons  and  had  thrown  themselves  at  my  feet,  I  took 
away  as  prisoners  and  added  to  the  people  of  my  country. 

At  that  time  I  marched  also  against  the  people  of  Qum- 
muh, who  had  become  unsubmissive,  withholding  the  tax 
and  tribute  due  to  Ashur,  my  lord.    I  conquered  Qummuh 


14  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

to  its  whole  extent,  and  carried  off  their  booty,  their  goods, 
and  their  property;  I  burned  their  cities  with  fire,  de- 
stroyed, and  devastated.  The  rest  of  the  people  of  Qum- 
muh,  who  had  fled  before  my  weapons,  crossed  over  to 
Seresse,  on  the  farther  bank  of  the  river  Tigris;  and  they 
selected  this  city  for  their  stronghold.  I  assembled  my 
chariots  and  warriors.  I  crossed  steep  mountains  and  cut 
my  way  through  their  difficult  paths  with  the  help  of  pick- 
axes of  bronze  (?).  I  constructed  a  road  for  the  passage  of 
my  chariots  and  of  my  troops.  I  then  crossed  the  Tigris 
and  conquered  Seresse,  their  stronghold.  In  the  thickest 
of  the  mountain  forests  I  scattered  their  soldiers  over  the 
ground  like  sheaves  (?),  and  made  their  blood  to  flow  into 
the  Tigris  and  over  the  heights  of  the  mountains.  At  that 
same  time  I  overthrew  also  the  troops  of  the  Kurteans  who 
had  come  to  save  and  to  assist  the  people  of  Qummuh, 
in  addition  to  those  of  Qummuh  (as  easily)  as  one  pours 
out  water.  I  heaped  the  bodies  of  their  warriors  in  great 
numbers  on  the  mountain  peaks,  and  let  the  river  Name 
carry  off  the  corpses  of  their  soldiers  into  the  Tigris.  I 
captured  in  this  same  battle  their  king,  Kilianteru,  son  of 
Kilianteru — people  called  him  also  Sarupi — ^his  wives  and 
his  children,  the  offspring  of  his  loins,  and  the  rest  of  his 
relatives.  I  carried  off  one  hundred  and  eighty  bronze 
unguentaries,  five  bowls  of  copper,  along  with  their  idols 
of  gold  and  silver,  the  choicest  of  their  property,  and  took 
away  their  booty  and  their  goods.  The  city  itself  and  its 
palace  I  burned  with  fire,  destroyed,  and  devastated. 

As  for  the  city  of  Urartinash,  their  stronghold,  situated 
on  the  mountain  of  Panari,  fear,  the  awful  splendour  of 
Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed  its  inhabitants,  and,  to  save 
their  lives,  they  carried  off  their  idols  and  goods  and  fled 
like  birds  to  the  peaks  of  the  high  mountains.  I  brought 
my  war  chariots  and  my  troops  across  the  Tigris.  Shadi- 
anteru,  son  of  Hattuhi,  the  King  of  Urartinash,  without 
ever  attempting  to  fight,  embraced  my  feet  in  his  own 
country.  I  took  as  hostages  his  sons,  the  offspring  of  his 
loins,  and  his  relatives.     He  brought  to  me  sixty  bronze. 


INSCRIPTION  OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  I 


IS 


unguentaries,  large  bowls  and  sacrificial  dishes  of  copper, 
together  with  one  hundred  and  twenty  slaves,  and  cattle 
large  and  small;  and  I  accepted  these  as  taxes  and  tribute; 
spared  his  life,  but  placed  upon  him  for  the  remainder  of 
his  days  the  heavy  yoke  of  my  lordship.  I  conquered 
and  subjugated  the  immense  country  of  Qummuh  to  its 
whole  extent.  From  the  spoil  and  tribute  of  Qummuh 
I  gave  one  sacrificial  dish  of  copper  and  one  bowl,  likewise 
of  copper,  to  Ashur,  my  lord,  as  a  votive-offering;  and 
to  Adad,  my  protector,  I  gave  the  sixty  bronze  unguen- 
taries together  with  the  idols  (of  the  people  of  Qummuh). 

Relying  upon  the  fierceness  of  my  mighty  weapons  to 
which  Ashur,  my  lord,  had  given  power  and  supremacy, 
I  marched,  with  thirty  war  chariots  going  at  the  side  of 
my  veterans,  swift  warriors — may  they  always  be  strong 
against  the  shock  of  an  overthrow! — to  the  haughty  and 
unsubmissive  country  of  Mildish.  I  traversed  mighty 
mountains  and  difficult  territory  in  my  chariot  where  the 
country  was  good,  and  afoot  wherever  it  was  bad.  On 
Mount  Aruma,  a  rough  territory,  impassable  for  the  mov- 
ing of  my  chariots,  I  left  them  behind  and  placed  myself 
at  the  head  of  my  soldiers;  wormed  myself  through  like  a 
lizard  (?)  and  advanced  victoriously  to  the  rough  and 
troublesome  mountain  peaks.  I  reduced  the  country  of 
Mildish  to  a  rubbish-heap,  as  if  tossed  together  by  a  hur- 
ricane. I  laid  low  their  soldiers  in  battle  in  large  num- 
bers (?),  carried  away  their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their 
property,  burned  all  their  cities  with  fire,  and  imposed  on 
them  hostages,  taxes,  and  tribute. 

Tiglath-pileser,  the  valiant  hero,  who  opens  up  the 
mountain  paths,  subdues  the  unsubmissive,  and  sweeps 
away  all  the  haughty. 

I  subjugated  the  rebellious  and  unsubmissive  people  of 
Shubari,  and  laid  the  heavy  yoke  of  my  lordship  upon 
the  countries  Alzi  and  Purukuzzu,  which  had  withheld 
their  taxes  and  tribute.  I  ordered  them  to  bring,  year 
after  year,  taxes  and  tribute  before  me  to  my  city  Asshur. 

Inasmuch  as  Ashur,  my  lord,  had  intrusted  to  me  the 


l6  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

mighty  weapons  to  subdue  in  my  valour  the  unsubmis- 
sive, so  he  now  commanded  me  to  extend  the  bounda- 
ries of  my  country;  I  marched  against  an  army  of  four 
thousand  Kaskeans  and  Urumeans,  Hittite  soldiers,  who 
had  become  unsubmissive  and,  trusting  to  their  strength, 
had  captured  cities  of  Sumashtu,  vassals  of  Ashur,  my  lord. 
They  heard  of  my  advance  toward  Sumashtu.  The  splen- 
dour of  my  valour  overwhelmed  them;  they  feared  to  join 
battle  with  me,  and  embraced  my  feet.  Together  with 
their  belongings,  and  one  hundred  and  twenty  chariots 
and  their  teams,  I  took  them  away  with  me  and  added 
them  to  the  people  of  my  country. 

In  my  fierce  valour  I  marched  a  second  time  against 
the  people  of  Qummuh;  conquered  all  their  cities;  carried 
off  their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their  property  (beyond 
reckoning),  and  burned  their  cities  with  fire;  destroyed 
and  devastated  them.  The  survivors  among  them,  being 
afraid  of  my  powerful  weapons  and  fearing  the  approach 
of  my  mighty  battle  array,  betook  themselves,  to  save  their 
lives,  to  the  inaccessible  peaks  of  the  mountains,  a  most 
difficult  and  rough  territory.  I  ascended  in  pursuit  of 
them  to  the  heights  of  these  lofty  mountain  forests  and 
to  the  peaks  of  the  steep  mountains,  which  were  really  not 
suitable  for  man  to  tread.  They  essayed  against  me  a 
trial  of  weapons,  combat  and  battle;  but  I  accomplished 
their  defeat.  I  heaped,  like  the  Thunderer,  the  corpses  of 
the  warriors  upon  the  mountain  peaks,  and  made  their 
blood  to  flow  over  the  ravines  and  the  high  places  of  the 
mountains.  I  brought  down  their  booty,  their  goods,  and 
their  property,  from  these  steep  mountain  heights.  I  sub- 
jugated Qummuh  throughout  its  whole  extent,  and  incor- 
porated it  into  the  territory  of  my  country. 

Tiglath-pileser,  the  powerful  king,  the  snare  for  the  un- 
submissive, who  sweeps  away  the  resistance  of  the  wicked. 

With  the  mighty  forces  given  me  by  Ashur,  my  lord, 
I  marched  against  the  country  of  Haria  and  the  wide- 
spread Kurteans.  Ashur,  my  lord,  commanded  me  to 
ascend  lofty  mountains,  which  no  king  had  ever  before 


INSCRIPTION  OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  I 


17 


reached.  I  assembled  my  war  chariots  and  my  troops,  and 
marched  between  the  mountains  of  Idni  and  Aia,  an  in- 
tractable region.  High  mountains,  which  were  as  sharp 
as  the  point  of  a  dagger,  made  impossible  the  advance  of 
my  war  chariots.  These  I  left  in  the  plain  (?)  and  ascended 
the  difficult  mountains  afoot.  All  the  Kurteans  had  assem- 
bled their  numerous  troops,  and  had  fortified  themselves 
on  Mount  Azutabgis,  to  make  trial  with  me  in  combat  and 
battle.  I  fought  with  them  on  that  mountain  and — al- 
though the  battlefield  was  most  unfavourable  for  me — 
I  accomplished  their  overthrow.  I  heaped  up  on  the 
mountain  heights  the  corpses  of  their  warriors,  and  made 
their  blood  to  flow  over  the  ravines  and  high  places  of  the 
mountains.  I  pressed  forward  fiercely  against  the  cities 
situated  on  the  mountain  peaks;  conquered  twenty-five 
cities  of  the  country  of  Haria,  situate  at  the  foot  of  the 
mountains  Aia,  Shuira,  Idni,  Shezu,  Shelgu,  Arzanibiu, 
Urusu,  and  Anitku;  carried  off  their  booty,  their  goods, 
and  their  property,  and  burned  the  cities  themselves  with 
fire,  destroyed  and  devastated  them. 

The  people  of  Adaush,  fearing  the  approach  of  my 
mighty  army,  had  forsaken  their  homes,  and  had  fled,  like 
birds,  to  the  lofty  mountain  peaks.  The  splendour  of 
Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed  them;  they  left  their  moun- 
tains and  embraced  my  feet.  I  imposed  on  them  taxes  and 
tribute.  The  countries  of  Sharaush  and  Aramaush,  which 
never  before  were  known  to  have  suffered  defeat,  I  over- 
threw and  reduced  to  a  rubbish-heap,  as  if  tossed  together 
by  a  hurricane.  I  fought  with  their  mighty,  valiant  troops 
on  Mount  Aramu  and  accomplished  their  defeat.  I  scat- 
tered the  corpses  of  their  soldiers  like  sheaves  over  the 
ground;  I  conquered  their  cities,  carried  off  their  idols, 
and  brought  away  their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their  prop- 
erty. Their  cities  I  burned  with  fire,  destroyed  and  dev- 
astated, reducing  all  to  mounds  and  arable  land;  placed 
upon  them  the  heavy  yoke  of  my  lordship,  and  made  them 
subjects  and  vassals  of  Ashur,  my  lord. 

I  conquered  the  powerful  people  of  Isua  and  Daria  who 


1 8  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

had  shown  disobedience;  imposed  on  them  taxes  and 
tribute,  and  made  them  subjects  to  Ashur,  my  lord. 

In  my  present  supremacy  over  my  enemies  whom  I  had 
thus  defeated,  I  took  my  war  chariots  and  troops,  crossed 
the  Lower  Zab,  and  conquered  Murattash  and  Saradaush, 
cities  situate  in  the  mountains  of  Asaniu  and  Atuma,  a 
most  difficult  and  rough  territory.  I  cut  down  their  troops 
like  swaths  (?),  and  conquered  the  city  of  Murattash,  their 
stronghold,  in  less  than  one  third  of  a  day.  I  carried  off 
their  idols,  their  goods,  and  their  property;  sixty  bronze 
unguentaries,  thirty  loads  of  copper,  and  the  beautiful, 
small  furniture  of  their  palace,  as  well  as  prisoners.  The 
city  itself  I  burned  with  fire,  destroyed  and  devastated. 
The  bronze  articles  I  then  presented  to  Adad,  the  great 
lord,  who  loves  me. 

In  the  fulness  of  the  lofty  power  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I 
marched  against  the  Sugi,  in  the  land  of  Kilhi,  who  had 
not  become  submissive  to  Ashur,  my  lord.  I  fought  on 
foot  with  six  thousand  of  their  troops  and  with  those  of  the 
countries  of  Hime,  Luhi,  Arirgi,  Alamun,  Nimni,  as  well  as 
with  the  army  of  the  Kurteans — a  vast  array — on  Mount 
Hiriha,  a  most  difficult  territory,  all  its  peaks  being  as 
sharp  as  the  point  of  a  dagger,  and  accomplished  their  de- 
feat. I  heaped  the  corpses  of  their  soldiers  upon  the  moun- 
tain peaks  in  high  heaps,  and  with  the  blood  of  their  war- 
riors I  dyed  Mount  Hiriha  like  red  wool.  I  conquered  the 
whole  land  of  Sugi,  and  carried  off  twenty-five  of  their 
idols,  their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their  property.  I 
burned  with  fire  all  their  cities,  destroyed  and  devastated 
them.  The  rest  of  their  troops  embraced  my  feet  and  I 
granted  them  pardon,  but  imposed  upon  them  taxes  and 
tribute  and  added  them  to  the  number  of  those  who  belong 
to  Ashur,  my  lord.  Thereupon  I  dedicated  the  twenty-five 
idols  of  those  countries,  which  I  had  captured  with  my 
hand  and  had  taken  away,  as  a  gift  to  the  Temple  of  Belit, 
the  lofty  consort  and  beloved  of  Ashur,  my  lord;  and  to  the 
Temple  of  Anu,  Adad,  and  Ishtar  the  Assyrian,  the  gods 
of  my  city  Asshur,  and  the  goddesses  of  my  country. 


INSCRIPTION   OF   TIGLATH-PILESER   I 


19 


Tiglath-pileser,  the  mighty  king,  conqueror  of  the  lands 
of  the  enemies,  rival  of  kings,  one  and  all. 

Thereupon,  in  the  lofty  power  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  under 
the  faithful  protection  of  Shamash,  the  warrior,  and  with 
the  assistance  of  the  great  gods,  Ashur,  my  lord,  sent  me — 
who  over  all  the  world  has  ruled  in  truth  and  in  justice,  who 
in  battle  and  war  has  never  met  a  victorious  rival,  nor  in 
combat  has  seen  his  equal — ^to  the  countries  of  far-ofi  kings 
on  the  shores  of  the  Upper  Sea,  who  never  knew  subjec- 
tion. I  travelled  over  rough  roads,  and  through  difficult 
mountain  passes  whose  interior  in  the  past  no  king  had 
ever  penetrated.  I  opened  paths  unbeaten  and  roads  un- 
opened. I  crossed  the  mountains  of  Elama,  Amadana,  and 
Ushish,  Sherabeli  and  Tarhuna,  Tirkahuli  and  Kisra,  Tar- 
hanabe  and  Elula,  Hashtarae  and  Shahishara,  Ubera  and 
Miliadruni,  Shulianzi  and  Nubanashe,  and  Seshe — in  all 
sixteen  immense  mountains.  I  advanced  in  my  chariot 
where  the  country  was  good,  and  where  it  was  rough  I 
made  headway  with  pickaxes  (?)  of  bronze.  I  cut  down 
the  stems  and  trunks  of  forest  trees,  built  bridges  for  the 
advance  of  my  troops,  and  crossed  the  river  Euphrates. 
The  kings  of  Nimme,  of  Tunube  and  Tuali,  of  Kidari  and 
Uzula,  of  Unzamuni  and  Andiabe,  of  Paliqini  and  Aturgini, 
of  Kulibarzini  and  Shinibirni,  of  Himua  and  Paiteri,  of 
Uiram  and  Shururia,  of  Abaeni  and  Adaeni,  of  Kirini  and 
Albaia,  of  Ugina  and  Nazabia,  of  Abarsiuni  and  Daiaeni; 
in  all,  twenty-three  kings  of  the  countries  of  Nairi,  assem- 
bled their  war  chariots  and  their  troops  in  their  own  coun- 
tries and  advanced  to  give  me  combat  and  battle.  With 
the  fury  of  my  mighty  weapons  I  pressed  them  hard,  and, 
like  the  destructive  flood  of  Adad,  I  brought  about  the 
annihilation  of  their  large  armies.  Like  sheaves  I  spread 
and  scattered  the  corpses  of  their  warriors  upon  the  tops 
of  the  mountain  heights  and  at  the  side  of  their  cities.  One 
hundred  and  twenty  of  their  war  chariots,  the  steeds  with 
their  trappings  I  captured  in  that  battle.  I  pursued,  with 
spear  in  hand,  sixty  kings,  those  of  the  countries  of  Nairi 
together  with  those  who  had  come  to  their  help  and  assist- 


20  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

ance,  as  far  as  the  Upper  Sea  (Black  Sea?);  conquered  their 
great  cities,  carried  off  their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their 
property;  and  burned  with  fire  their  cities,  destroyed  and 
devastated  them,  reducing  them  to  mounds  and  arable 
land.  Herds  of  fine  chargers,  swift  mules  and  the  cattle 
of  their  pastures  I  brought  home  in  countless  numbers. 
I  captured  alive  all  the  kings  of  the  countries  of  Nairi; 
granted  mercy  and  pardon  to  them  and  spared  their  lives; 
captive  and  bound  I  set  them  free  in  the  presence  of  Sha- 
mash,  my  lord,  and  compelled  them  to  swear  the  oath  of 
my  great  gods  in  fealty  and  allegiance  for  the  future  and 
forever.  I  took  away  their  royal  offspring  as  hostages; 
imposed  upon  them,  as  a  tribute,  twelve  hundred  horses 
and  two  thousand  head  of  cattle,  and  then  sent  them  away 
to  their  own  countries. 

Sieni,  the  King  of  Daiaeni,  who  had  not  submitted  him- 
self to  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  brought  captive  and  bound  to  my 
city  Asshur;  I  granted  him  mercy  and  pardon,  and  dis- 
missed him  from  my  city  Asshur  as  a  servant  and  vassal  of 
the  great  gods,  granting  him  life,  but  making  him  a  slave. 
I  subdued  the  far-extending  lands  of  Nairi  throughout 
their  whole  extent,  and  made  all  their  kings  subject  to  me. 

In  the  course  of  this  same  campaign  I  marched  to  the 
city  of  Milidia,  in  the  land  of  Hanirabbat,  which  was  re- 
bellious and  unsubmissive.  The  people  feared  the  ap- 
proach of  my  mighty  battle  array,  embraced  my  feet,  and 
I  granted  them  pardon.  I  did  not  storm  that  city,  but 
accepted  hostages  from  them;  and  imposed  upon  them 
as  a  yearly  tribute  forever  one  homer  of  magnesite  (?)  for 
sacrificial  purposes. 

Tiglath-pileser,  the  fiery,  fierce  flame,  the  mighty  battle- 
storm. 

In  the  strength  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  took  my  war 
chariots  and  warriors,  and  marched  into  the  desert,  into 
the  very  midst  of  the  Achlamean  hordes,  Arameans,  en- 
emies to  Ashur,  my  lord.  I  made  a  razzia  in  one  day  from 
the  country  of  Suhi  to  the  city  of  Carchemish  in  the  land 
of  the  Hittites;  destroyed  their  army  and  brought  home 


INSCRIPTION   OF  TIGLATH-PILESER   I  21 

their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their  cattle  in  countless  num- 
bers. I  pursued  the  survivors  of  their  troops,  who  had  fled 
before  the  mighty  weapons  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  and  had 
crossed  the  river  Euphrates,  crossing  the  river  Euphrates 
on  boats  supported  by  inflated  sheep-skins.  I  stormed  six 
of  their  cities,  that  were  situated  at  the  foot  of  Mount 
Beshri,  and  burned  them  with  fire,  destroyed  and  devas- 
tated them.  I  brought  their  booty,  their  goods,  and  their 
cattle  to  Asshur,  my  city. 

Tiglath-pileser,  who  tramples  down  the  proud  and  the 
haughty,  who  overthrows  the  unsubmissive,  and  humbles 
all  those  who  deem  themselves  powerful. 

When  Ashur,  my  lord,  sent  me  to  conquer  the  land 
Musri,  I  took  the  road  leading  between  the  mountains 
Elamuni,  Tala,  and  Harusa.  I  conquered  all  the  land  of 
Musri,  overpowered  their  warriors,  and  burned  their  cities 
with  fire,  destroyed  and  devastated.  I  fought  on  the 
mountains  with  the  troops  of  the  Qumaneans,  who  had 
come  to  the  assistance  of  Musri,  and  accomplished  their  de- 
feat; drove  them  into  one  city — ^viz.,  Arini,  at  the  foot  of 
Mount  Aisa — and  shut  them  up.  They  embraced  my  feet 
in  fear  and  trembling;  the  city  I  spared,  but  exacted  from 
its  inhabitants  hostages,  taxes,  and  tribute. 

At  that  time  all  the  Qumaneans  who  had  rallied  to  the 
support  of  Musri  assembled  the  troops  from  all  their  lands 
and  made  a  stand  to  give  me  battle  and  combat.  With  the 
help  of  my  mighty  weapons  I  fought  on  Mount  Tala  with 
twenty  thousand  of  their  numerous  troops  and  brought 
defeat  upon  them.  I  scattered  their  large  and  numerous 
forces,  and  pursued  them  in  their  defeat  as  far  as  Mount 
Harusa  on  the  east  side  of  Musri.  I  scattered  the  bodies  of 
their  warriors  upon  the  mountain  peaks  like  the  flow  of 
water,  and  made  their  blood  to  flow  over  the  ravines  and 
high  places  of  the  mountains.  I  stormed  their  large  cities, 
burned  them  with  fire,  destroyed  and  devastated,  so  that 
they  became  mounds  and  arable  land;  and  I  ruined 
Hunusa,  their  fortress,  so  that  now  it  appears  like  a  rub- 
bish-heap tossed  together  by  a  hurricane.    I  fought  fiercely 


22  ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

against  their  numerous  troops  in  city  and  on  mountain, 
and  completely  defeated  them.  I  poured  out  the  corpses 
of  their  warriors  in  the  mountain  forests  like  the  flow  of 
water;  cut  of?  their  heads  like  swaths;  and  made  their 
blood  to  flow  over  the  ravines  and  high  places  of  the 
mountain.  The  city  itself  I  stormed,  carried  off  their  idols, 
brought  away  their  goods  and  their  property,  and  then 
burned  the  city  with  fire.  I  destroyed  and  ruined  its  three 
strong  city  walls,  built  with  burned  brick,  and  the  enceinte 
of  the  city,  reducing  all  to  mounds  and  arable  land;  threw 
ashes  (?)  upon  its  ruins,  and  erected  a  memorial  slab  (?) 
of  copper,  inscribing  on  it  the  spoil  I  had  gathered  from 
the  countries  which  with  the  help  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  had 
taken;  and  directing  never  to  build  anew  that  city,  nor  to 
erect  its  walls  again.  I  built  over  it  (the  slab)  a  house 
made  of  brick  and  placed  in  it  that  memorial  slab  of  copper. 

In  the  strength  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  took  my  war 
chariots  and  troops,  and  besieged  Kibshuna,  their  capital 
city.  The  Qumaneans,  fearing  the  approach  of  my  mighty 
battle  array,  embraced  my  feet  and  I  spared  their  lives.  I 
ordered  them  to  pull  down  their  city's  great  wall  and  its 
towers  built  of  brick.  They  destroyed  these  from  their 
foundations  to  their  roofs,  and  reduced  the  city  to  mounds 
and  arable  land.  The  inhabitants  also  drove  away  three 
hundred  rebellious  families  living  among  them  and  not 
submissive  to  Ashur,  my  lord,  who  had  been  implicated  in 
the  revolt.  I  accepted  this  deed,  and  took  hostages  as  a 
pledge  for  the  future.  I  also  imposed  on  them  taxes  and 
tribute  more  than  before,  and  brought  to  submission  the 
wide  country  of  the  Qumaneans  throughout  its  extent. 

I  conquered,  in  all,  from  the  beginning  of  my  rule  to 
the  fifth  year  of  my  reign,  forty-two  countries  and  their 
princes,  from  the  other  side  of  the  Lower  Zab,  the  bound- 
ary of  far-off  mountain  forests,  unto  the  other  side  of  the 
Euphrates  to  the  land  of  the  Hittites  and  the  Upper  Sea 
toward  the  west.  I  made  them  one  nation  and  amalga- 
mated them;  took  hostages  from  them  and  imposed  on 
them  taxes  and  tribute. 


INSCRIPTION  OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  I 


23 


I  also  conducted  many  other  campaigns  against  en- 
emies who  could  not  approach  my  military  superiority, 
covering  good  country  in  my  war  chariot  and  on  bad  roads 
pursuing  the  enemy  afoot.  Thus  I  always  prevented  an 
inroad  of  my  enemies  into  my  country. 

Tiglath-pileser,  the  valiant  hero,  who  holds  a  sceptre 
that  has  no  rival,  and  who  is  perfect  in  the  deeds  of  the 
battlefield. 

The  gods  Ninib  and  Nergal  had  presented  my  majesty 
with  their  mighty  weapons  and  their  lofty  bow;  and  at  the 
bidding  of  Ninib,  who  loves  me,  I  killed  with  my  mighty 
bow,  my  sharp  lance  of  iron,  and  my  arrow,  four  huge  and 
powerful  male  wild  oxen,  in  the  prairies  of  the  country  of 
Mitani  and  near  the  city  of  Arazigi,  situated  east  of  the  land 
of  the  Hittites.  I  brought  home  to  my  city  Asshur  their 
hides  and  their  horns. 

I  hunted  and  killed  ten  powerful  male  elephants  in  the 
country  of  Harran  and  on  the  banks  of  the  Chaboras.  I 
also  captured  alive  four  elephants;  and  brought  the  hides 
and  the  tusks  of  the  ten,  together  with  the  live  elephants, 
to  my  city  Asshur.  At  the  bidding  of  Ninib,  who  loves 
me,  with  a  stout  heart,  I  killed  on  foot  one  hundred  and 
twenty  lions  with  courageous  attack.  From  my  chariot 
I  slew  as  many  as  eight  hundred  lions;  and  also  laid  low 
as  trophies  (?  of  my  chase)  all  kinds  of  beasts  of  the  field 
and  of  winged  birds  soaring  aloft. 

After  I  had  thus  successfully  overcome  all  the  enemies 
of  Ashur,  I  erected  a  temple  to  my  lady  Ishtar  of  Asshur; 
also  a  temple  to  Martu,  and  Bel-Dibbarra;  and  renovated 
temples  to  deities  and  to  gods  in  my  city  Asshur,  which 
had  become  dilapidated,  and  completed  their  restoration. 
I  constructed  the  gateways  to  these  temples  and  led  the 
great  gods,  my  lords,  into  them,  thus  gladdening  their 
divine  heart.  I  rebuilt  and  restored  palaces,  my  royal  resi- 
dences, in  the  outlying  districts  of  my  country — palaces 
which  in  the  course  of  many  years  during  the  reign  of  my 
fathers  had  been  forsaken,  had  fallen  into  decay  and  were 
now  heaps  of  ruins.    I  also  rebuilt  the  crumbling  walls  of 


24  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

cities  in  my  country;  repaired  the  storehouses  and  grana- 
ries throughout  the  whole  of  Assyria  and  unloaded  into 
them  more  grain  than  my  fathers  had  done,  heaping  it 
high.  Herds  of  horses,  cattle,  and  asses  I  collected,  which 
in  the  strength  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  my  hand  had  captured 
as  spoil  in  the  lands  which  I  had  conquered.  I  also  caught 
in  the  high  mountain  forests  herds  of  hinds  and  stags, 
gazelles  and  steinbocks — ^which  Ashur  and  Ninib,  the  gods 
who  love  me,  had  given  unto  me  as  the  result  of  my  chase. 
I  brought  together  whole  troops  of  them,  and  reckoned 
their  number  like  a  large  herd  of  small  cattle.  I  sacrificed 
to  Ashur,  my  lord,  from  year  to  year,  kids  and  Iambs,  their 
offspring,  together  with  the  more  splendid  sacrifices,  ac- 
cording to  my  heart's  desire. 

I  brought  from  the  countries  which  I  had  conquered, 
cedars,  oaks,  and  other  foreign  woods,  such  as  among  the 
kings,  my  forefathers,  none  had  ever  planted,  and  I  planted 
them  in  the  parks  of  my  country.  I  imported  also  for 
orchards  rare,  choice  fruits,  which  were  not  found  in  my 
country  and  planted  them  in  the  orchards  of  Assyria. 

Chariots  and  their  yoked  horses  I  increased  in  number 
more  than  ever  before,  so  as  to  strengthen  the  power  of  my 
country.  I  enlarged  the  land  of  Assyria  in  territory  and 
increased  its  people  in  number.  I  enhanced  the  welfare 
of  my  nation,  and  made  them  live  and  dwell  in  peaceful 
homes. 

Tiglath-pileser,  the  lofty  prince,  to  whom  Ashur  and 
Ninib  give  everything  according  to  his  heart's  desire;  who 
has  followed  up  all  the  enemies  of  Assyria,  wherever  they 
happened  to  be,  overpowering  all  who  deemed  themselves 
powerful. 

The  son  of  Ashur-resh-ishi,  the  mighty  king,  conqueror 
of  his  enemies'  lands,  subduer  of  all  the  haughty. 

The  grandson  of  Mutakkil-Nusku,  for  whom  Ashur, 
the  great  lord,  following  the  dictates  of  his  true  heart, 
longed,  and  whom  he  called  to  the  legitimate  dominion 
over  Assyria. 

The  legitimate  scion  of  Ashur-dan,  who  wielded  a 


INSCRIPTION   OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  I 


25 


splendid  sceptre  and  ruled  the  people  of  Bel;  whose  handi- 
work and  sacrificial  g^fts  were  pleasing  to  the  great  gods, 
and  who  thus  reached  old  age  and  hoary  years. 

The  descendant  of  Ninib-pal-ekur  the  royal  ruler,  the 
favourite  of  Ashur,  whose  lightning  fire,  like  the  light  of 
day,  was  spread  over  the  whole  country,  and  who  led  the 
troops  of  Assyria  with  a  firm  hand. 

In  those  days  I  rebuilt  the  Temple  of  Anu  and  Adad, 
the  great  gods,  my  lords,  a  temple  which  long  ago  Sham- 
shi-Adad,  a  high  priestly  official  of  Ashur,  son  of  Ishme- 
Dagan,  likewise  a  high  priestly  official  of  Ashur,  had  built; 
but  it  had  been  decaying  for  six  hundred  and  forty-one 
years,  until  the  time  of  Ashur-dan,  King  of  Assyria,  son  of 
Ninib-pal-ekur,  King  of  Assyria,  who  had  pulled  down  that 
temple,  without  rebuilding  it,  so  that  for  sixty  years  its 
foundation  had  not  been  laid. 

In  the  beginning  of  my  government  Anu  and  Adad, 
the  great  gods,  my  lords,  who  love  my  priestly  dignity,  de- 
manded of  me  the  restoration  of  this  their  sacred  dwelling. 
I  made  bricks,  and  I  cleared  the  ground,  until  I  reached 
the  artificial  flat  terrace  upon  which  the  old  temple  had 
been  built.  I  laid  its  foundation  upon  the  solid  rock  and 
incased  the  whole  place  with  brick  like  a  fireplace,  over- 
laid on  it  a  layer  of  fifty  bricks  in  depth,  and  built  upon 
this  the  foundations  of  the  Temple  of  Anu  and  Adad  of 
large  square  stones.  I  built  it  from  foundation  to  roof 
larger  and  grander  than  before,  and  erected  also  two  great 
temple  towers,  fitting  ornaments  of  their  great  divinities. 
The  splendid  temple,  a  brilliant  and  magnificent  dwelling, 
the  habitation  of  their  joys,  the  house  for  their  delight, 
shining  as  bright  as  the  stars  on  heaven's  firmament  and 
richly  decorated  with  ornaments  through  the  skill  of  my 
artists,  I  planned,  devised  and  thought  out,  built  and  com- 
pleted. I  made  its  interior  brilliant  like  the  dome  of  the 
heavens;  decorated  its  walls,  like  the  splendour  of  the  ris- 
ing stars,  and  made  it  grand  with  resplendent  brilliancy.  I 
reared  its  temple  towers  to  heaven  and  completed  its  roof 
with  burned  brick;  located  therein  the  upper  terrace  con- 


26         ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

taining  the  chamber  of  their  great  divinities;  and  led  into 
its  interior  Anu  and  Adad,  the  great  gods,  and  made  them 
dwell  in  this  their  lofty  home,  thus  gladdening  the  heart 
of  their  great  divinities.  I  also  cleared  the  site  of  the 
treasure-house  of  Adad,  my  lord,  which  the  same  Shamshi- 
Adad,  priest  of  Ashur,  son  of  Ishme-Dagan,  likewise  priest 
of  Ashur,  had  built  and  which  had  fallen  into  decay  and 
ruins,  and  rebuilt  it  from  foundation  to  roof  with  burned 
brick,  making  it  more  beautiful  and  much  firmer  than  be- 
fore. I  slaughtered  clean  animals  therein  as  a  sacrifice  to 
Adad,  my  lord. 

At  that  time  I  also  imported  various  kinds  of  precious 
stones  from  the  mountains  of  the  country  of  Nairi  which 
with  the  help  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  had  conquered.  I  de- 
posited these  in  the  treasure-house  of  Adad,  my  lord,  to 
remain  there  for  the  future  and  forever. 

As  I  have  planned  the  bright  and  brilliant  house,  the 
lofty  dwelling  for  the  habitation  of  Anu  and  Adad,  the 
great  gods,  my  lords;  and  as  I  persevered  in  building  it, 
untiringly  and  unceasingly,  completing  it  with  the  utmost 
speed  and  thus  gladdening  the  heart  of  their  great  divini- 
ties; may,  therefore,  Anu  and  Adad  turn  to  me  truly  and 
faithfully,  accept  graciously  the  lifting  up  of  my  hand, 
hearken  unto  my  devout  prayers,  grant  unto  me  and  my 
reign  abundance  of  rain,  years  of  prosperity  and  fruitfulness 
in  plenty!  May  they  bring  me  back  safely  from  battle  and 
from  flight;  may  they  reduce  to  submission  all  the  coun- 
tries of  my  enemies,  mountain  regions  that  are  powerful, 
and  kings  who  are  my  adversaries!  May  they  come  nigh 
unto  me  and  my  priestly  seed  with  friendly  blessings;  may 
they  establish  my  priesthood  as  firm  as  the  rocks  before 
Ashur  and  the  great  deities  for  the  future  and  forever! 

I  inscribed  upon  my  memorial  slab  and  on  my  brick 
cylinder  the  glory  of  my  valiant  prowess,  the  victories 
achieved  in  battle,  the  subjection  of  the  enemies  who  hated 
Ashur  and  whom  Anu  and  Adad  gave  unto  me  as  a  pres- 
ent ;  and  I  placed  them  in  the  comer  stones  of  the  Temple 
of  Anu  and  Adad,  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  for  the  future 


INSCRIPTION  OF  TIGLATH-PILESER   I  27 

and  forever.  I  also  cleansed  the  memorial  slab  of  Shamshi- 
Adad,  my  predecessor,  with  oil,  offered  a  sacrifice,  and  re- 
stored the  slab  to  its  former  resting-place. 

For  eternal  days  and  forever,  for  always  (be  it  said): 
When  some  future  prince — when  the  Temple  of  Anu  and 
Adad,  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  and  these  temple  towers 
shall  have  become  old  and  fallen  into  ruins — rebuilds  their 
ruins,  may  he  cleanse  with  oil  my  memorial  slab  and  the 
foundation  cylinder,  offer  a  sacrifice,  and  restore  both  to 
their  lawful  resting-place,  writing  his  name  unto  my  name! 
As  Anu  and  Adad,  the  great  lords,  have  dealt  with  me, 
may  they  deal  with  him  and  lead  him  to  the  attainment  of 
glory  and  victory! 

But  he  who  wantonly  breaks  to  pieces  my  memorial 
slab  and  my  foundation  cylinder,  and  throws  them  away, 
casts  them  into  water  or  burns  them  in  fire,  covers  them 
with  dust  or  heaps  them  up  as  rubbish  in  some  dark  place 
where  they  can  not  be  seen,  blots  out  my  signature,  sub- 
stituting his  own  in  place  of  mine,  or  plans  any  other  form 
of  evil,  thus  injuring  this  my  memorial  slab: 

May  the  great  gods  Anu  and  Adad,  my  lords,  look 
upon  him  with  wrath  and  with  anger! 

May  they  curse  him  with  a  baneful  curse! 

May  they  break  up  his  kingdom! 

May  they  uproot  the  foundations  of  his  throne! 

May  they  ruin  the  offspring  of  his  lordship! 

May  they  break  to  pieces  his  weapons! 

May  they  bring  defeat  upon  his  army! 

May  they  place  him  bound  as  prisoner  before  his  en- 
emies! 

May  Adad  strike  his  country  with  disastrous  lightning! 

May  he  bring  need  and  want,  famine  and  pestilence 
over  his  country  and  not  permit  him  to  live  one  day  longer! 

May  he  blot  out  his  name  and  his  family  from  off  the 
land! 

Written  in  the  month  Siwan,  the  month  of  the  Gemini, 
on  the  29th  day  of  the  month,  the  eponymy  of  Ina-iliia- 
allak,  the  chief  of  the  musicians. 


28  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

INTRODUCTION    TO    THE    ANNALS    OF 

ASHURNAgiRPAL,  KING  OF  ASSYRIA 

(884-860  B.  c.) 

To  Ninib,  the  powerful,  the  strong,  the  exalted,  the 
chief  of  the  gods,  the  valiant,  the  mighty,  the  perfect, 
whose  onslaught  in  battle  can  not  be  equalled;  the  son  of 
highest  rank,  the  destroyer  of  opposition,  the  first-born  of 
Nudimmud,  the  hero  of  the  Igigi,  the  strong,  the  coun- 
sellor of  the  gods,  the  offspring  of  Ekur;  who  holds  the 
reins  of  heaven  and  earth,  who  opens  the  depths,  who 
treads  the  broad  earth,  the  god  without  whom  the  deci- 
sions of  heaven  and  earth  are  not  decided;  the  destroyer, 
the  strong,  the  command  of  whose  mouth  can  not  be 
changed,  the  chief  of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world,  the 
giver  of  sceptre  and  decision  unto  all  cities,  the  ruler,  the 
violent,  the  command  of  whose  lips  can  not  be  altered, 
the  strong,  the  broad,  the  leader  of  the  gods,  the  ex- 
alted, the  great  storm,  the  lord  of  lords,  whose  hand  con- 
trols the  ends  of  heaven  (and)  earth,  the  king  of  con- 
tests, the  strong,  who  has  conquered  (all)  opposition,  the 
triumphant,  the  perfect,  the  lord  of  the  depths  and  the 
seas;  the  terrible,  the  unsparing,  whose  onslaught  is  a 
cyclone,  who  overwhelms  the  land  of  the  enemies,  who 
overthrows  the  wicked,  the  powerful  god,  whose  counsel 
can  not  be  changed;  the  light  of  heaven  (and)  earth,  who 
gives  light  to  the  abyss,  who  annihilates  the  wicked,  who 
brings  to  subjection  the  disobedient,  who  destroys  foes, 
whose  name  in  the  assembly  of  the  gods  no  god  can 
humble;  the  giver  of  life,  the  merciful  god  to  whom  it 
is  good  to  pray,  who  dwells  in  Calah,  the  great  lord,  my 
lord — Ashurna9irpal,  the  powerful  king,  king  of  the  world, 
a  king  without  equal,  king  of  all  of  the  four  quarters,  the 
sun  of  the  hosts  of  men,  well-beloved  of  Bel  and  Ninib, 
beloved  of  Anu  and  Dagan,  darling  of  the  great  gods, 
submissive,  beloved  of  thy  heart,  the  prince,  the  favourite 
of  Bel,  whose  priesthood  is  pleasing  unto  thy  great  divinity 


INSCRIPTION  OF  ASHURNA^IRPAL  29 

and  whose  reign  thou  hast  established;  the  valiant  hero, 
who  under  the  protection  of  Ashur,  his  lord,  marches  here 
and  there  and  among  the  princes  of  the  four  quarters  has 
no  rival;  the  shepherd  looked  upon  with  wonder,  fearless 
of  opposition,  the  massive  flood,  who  has  no  opponent; 
the  king  who  has  brought  to  subjection  the  unsubmissive, 
who  rules  over  all  the  hosts  of  men;  the  strong  man,  who 
tramples  on  the  neck  of  his  foe,  who  treads  under  foot 
all  enemies,  who  breaks  the  strength  of  the  powerful,  who 
under  the  protection  of  the  great  gods,  his  lords,  marches 
here  and  there,  and  whose  hand  has  conquered  all  coun- 
tries, who  has  subdued  the  mountains  in  all  their  extent, 
and  has  received  their  tribute;  the  taker  of  hostages,  who 
has  established  his  power  over  all  lands. 


A  VOTIVE   INSCRIPTION   OF 
ASHURNAgiRPAL 

From  the  Temple  of  Balawat. 

AsHURNAfiRPAL,  the  great  king,  the  powerful  king, 
king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria;  son  of  Tukulti-Ninib, 
the  great  king,  the  powerful  king,  king  of  the  world.  King 
of  Assyria;  son  of  Ramman-nirari,  the  great  king,  the  pow- 
erful king,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria;  the  brave 
hero,  who,  under  the  protection  of  Ashur,  his  lord,  has 
marched  here  and  there  and,  among  the  princes  of  the 
four  quarters  of  the  world,  has  found  no  rival;  the  king, 
who  from  beyond  the  Tigris  to  Lebanon  and  the  great  sea, 
Laqe,  in  its  extent,  and  Suhi  as  far  as  the  city  of  Rapiqu, 
brought  to  submission;  from  the  head- waters  of  the  Sub- 
nat  to  the  passes  of  Kirruri,  to  Gilzani,  from  beyond  the 
Lower  Zab  to  the  city  of  Til-bari,  which  is  above  Zaban, 
from  the  city  Tilshabtani  to  the  city  Tilshagabtani,  the  city 
of  Hirimu,  the  city  of  Harutu,  the  fortresses  of  Karduniash 
to  the  territory  of  my  country  I  restored  and  the  broad 


30         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

lands  of  Nairi  throughout  its  whole  extent  I  conquered. 
That  city  I  took  anew  (and)  I  called  its  name  Imgur-Bel. 
I  built  the  temple  with  the  brick  of  my  palace;  I  set  up 
therein  an  image  of  Mahir,  my  lord.  I  went  to  Lebanon. 
I  cut  down  logs  of  cedar,  of  cypress  (and)  of  juniper.  I 
placed  beams  (logs)  of  cedar  over  the  .temple;  I  made 
doors  of  cedar,  bound  them  with  copper  straps,  and  set 
them  up  in  its  gates.  I  adorned  (and)  decorated  that  tem- 
ple. I  seated  Mahir,  the  great  lord,  therein,  and  I  placed 
an  inscribed  tablet  in  his  temple. 

O  later  prince  of  the  kings,  my  sons,  whom  Ashur  may 
call,  (if)  this  temple  decay  and  thou  see  the  tablet  and 
read  (it),  repair  its  damages,  write  thy  name  with  mine 
(and)  restore  it  to  its  place.  May  Ashur,  the  great  lord, 
and  Mahir  who  dwells  in  this  temple,  look  on  him  con- 
tinuously with  love!  May  they  establish  his  name  (and) 
his  seed  in  their  land!  Whoever  sees  this  tablet  and  speaks 
any  evil,  may  Ishtar,  the  mistress  of  contest  and  battle, 
break  in  pieces  his  weapons  (and)  may  she  deprive  him 
of  his  throne!  Whoever  sees  this  tablet  and  reads  (it), 
cleanses  it  with  oil,  offers  sacrifices,  (and)  restores  (it)  to 
its  place,  Ashur,  the  great  lord  will  hear  his  prayers  (and) 
in  the  battle  of  kings,  in  war,  he  will  let  him  attain  his 
heart's  desire. 


INSCRIPTION   OF  NABUPALIDDIN 
(883-852  B.  c.) 

Shamash,  the  great  lord,  who  dwells  in  Ebabbara  which 
is  in  Sippar,  which,  during  the  uprisings  and  disturbances 
in  the  land  of  Akkad,  the  Sutu,  a  hostile  foe,  had  over- 
turned, (and)  had  destroyed  (its)  reliefs — his  law  was  for- 
gotten and  his  image  and  insignia  had  disappeared,  and 
no  one  knew  where  they  were.  Simmasshihu,  King  of 
Babylon,  made  inquiry  for  his  statue,  but  he  (Shamash) 
did  not  reveal  himself.     He  (the  king)  did  not  find  his 


INSCRIPTION   OF  NABUPALIDDIN 


31 


image  and  his  insignia,  and  he  erected  an  inclosure  before 
Shamash  and  established  his  regular  offering;  and  placed 
them  in  charge  of  Ekurshumushabshi,  the  priest  of  Sippar, 
the  seer. 

During  the  distress  and  famine  in  the  time  of  King 
Kasshunadinahi,  this  regular  offering  was  stopped,  and  the 
drink  offering  fell  into  disuse.  As  for  King  Eulbursha- 
kinshum,  Ekurshumushabshi,  the  priest  of  Sippar,  the 
seer,  came  into  the  presence  of  the  king,  his  lord,  and  said, 
"  The  dues  (i.  e.,  established  offerings)  of  Shamash  have 
ceased  " ;  and  he  provided  for  Shamash  one  qa  of  food  and 
one  qa  of  date  wine,  as  the  support  of  the  director  of  Esagila, 
from  the  dues  of  Bel,  and  he  presented  it  to  Ekurshumu- 
shabshi, the  priest  of  Sippar,  the  seer.  He  (also)  dedi- 
cated to  Shamash  a  garden  in  the  addition  of  Alu-esshu 
(the  new  city)  which  is  in  the  midst  of  Babylon,  and 
intrusted  (it)  to  Ekurshumushabshi,  the  priest  of  Sippar, 
the  seer. 

Later  on  Nabupaliddin,  King  of  Babylon,  the  elect  of 
Marduk,  the  beloved  of  Anu  and  Ea,  who  makes  glad  the 
heart  of  Qarpanit,  the  manly  warrior,  well  fitted  for  rule, 
bearer  of  a  mighty  bow,  who  overthrew  the  hostile  foe, 
the  Sutu — whose  misdeeds  were  great — ^whom  Marduk, 
the  great  lord,  had  invested  with  a  righteous  sceptre  with 
which  to  rule  the  people,  to  avenge  Akkad,  to  people  cities, 
to  found  shrines,  to  chisel  reliefs,  to  preserve  laws  and  ordi- 
nances, to  establish  regular  offerings,  to  look  after  free- 
will offerings — Shamash,  the  great  lord,  who  for  a  long 
time  had  been  incensed  against  Akkad,  (and)  had  turned 
away  his  neck  in  anger,  in  the  reign  of  Nabupalid- 
din, the  King  of  Babylon,  relented  and  showed  favour. 
The  relief  of  his  image,  cut  in  clay,  his  statue  and  in- 
signia were  found  on  the  other  side  of  the  Euphrates 
toward  the  west;  and  Nabunadinshum,  the  priest  of  Sip- 
par, the  seer,  of  the  seed  of  Ekurshumushabshi,  the  priest 
of  Sippar,  the  seer,  showed  Nabupaliddin,  the  king,  his 
lord,  that  relief  of  the  image;  and  Nabupaliddin,  the  King 
of  Babylon,  who  had  commanded  and  intrusted  him  to 


32 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


replace  that  image,  saw  that  image,*  and  his  countenance 
was  glad  and  his  spirit  exultant;  he  directed  his  attention 
to  replace  that  image,  and  with  the  wisdom  of  Ea,  the 
co-operation  of  Nin-igi-nan-gar-bu,  Gush-gin-ban-da,  Nin- 
kur-ra,  (and)  Nin-za-dim,  with  pure  gold  (and)  brilliant 
lapis  lazuli,  he  carefully  prepared  the  image  of  Shamash, 
the  great  lord.  He  washed  his  mouth  according  to  the 
purification  rite  of  Ea  and  Marduk,  in  the  presence  of 
Shamash  in  Ekarsaginna,  which  is  on  the  bank  of  the  Eu- 
phrates, and  he  (Shamash)  took  up  his  residence.  He 
made  ofiferings  to  his  heart's  content,  consisting  of  im- 
mense oxen  and  large  sheep,  and  with  honey,  wine,  and 
upuntu  in  abundance  he  filled  the  granaries  (?). 

At  that  time,  the  heart  of  Nabupaliddin,  King  of  Baby- 
lon, rejoiced,  and  his  countenance  became  bright;  he 
turned  his  face  toward  Nabunadinshum,  the  priest  of  Sip- 
par,  the  seer,  and  with  his  shining  face,  his  noble  counte- 
nance, he  looked  upon  him  with  favour  in  his  gracious  eyes. 
One  qa  of  food  and  one  qa  of  drink,  the  ancient  dues  of  Sha- 
mash, together  with  the  garden  which  Eulbarshakinshum, 
the  king,  had  presented  to  Ekurshumushabshi,  the  priest 
of  Sippar,  the  seer,  altogether  six  fine  garments  for  the 
whole  year,  a  gift  from  the  king  for  Shamash,  A,  and 
Bunene  *  *  *  *  Such  did  Nabupaliddin,  the  King  of 
Babylon,  present  to  Nabunadinshum,  the  priest  of  Sippar, 
the  seer,  his  servant;  and,  that  there  might  not  be  a  suit  to 
recover,  he  sealed  it  and  gave  it  for  all  time.  At  the  sealing 
of  this  tablet,  Mardukshumukin,  the  son  of  Habban  the 
priest;  Ibashilu,  the  son  of  Earimanni,  the  messenger; 
Marduktabikzer,  the  son  of  Tu-bal-lat-Ishtar,  the  mayor 
(?);  and  Mardukbalatsuiqbi,  the  son  of  Arad-Ea,  the  pre- 
fect, were  present.  At  Babylon,  on  the  20th  of  Nisan,  in 
the  thirty-first  year  of  Nabupaliddin,  King  of  Babylon. 
Duplicate  of  the  royal  tablet  regarding  the  disposition. 

'  That  is,  the  relief,  cut  in  clay,  which  had  been  found  and  was  now 
presented  by  Ekurshumushabshi. 

'  The  inscription  continues  with  a  list  of  offerings  and  presents,  many 
of  which  are  still  unknown.  The  enumeration  would  be  of  little  interest 
to  the  general  reader. 


INSCRIPTION  OF  SHALMANESER  II  33 

Whoever  in  the  future  enters  this  palace  as  ruler  and  ren- 
ders null  the  gift  of  the  King  Nabupaliddin,  or  presents  it 
to  another,  or  cuts  down  the  allowance,  or  reckons  it  as 
belonging  to  the  prefect,  or  appropriates  it  to  himself,  or 
by  some  evil  act  destroys  this  tablet,  as  for  that  man,  by  the 
command  of  Shamash,  A,  and  Bunene,  lords  of  fates,  the 
great  gods,  may  his  name  pass  away,  may  his  seed  perish, 
in  distress  and  want  may  his  life  go  out,  may  his  corpse 
be  cast  out,  and  may  he  not  be  granted  burial! 


THE    MONOLITH    INSCRIPTION    OF 
SHALMANESER  ^11-^  (860-824  b.  c.) 

AsHUR,  the  great  lord,  the  king  of  all  the  great  gods; 
Anu,  the  king  of  the  Igigi  and  Anunnaki,  the  lord  of  lands; 
Bel,  the  father  of  the  gods,  the  decider  of  fates,  who  fixes 
the  boundaries  of  heaven  and  earth;  Ea,  the  wise,  the 
king  of  the  deep,  the  patron  of  the  arts;  Nanir  of  heaven 
and  earth,  the  majestic;  Shamash,  the  judge  of  the  (four) 
quarters  of  the  world,  who  leads  mankind  aright;  Ishtar, 
the  mistress  of  contest  and  battle,  whose  pleasure  is  (in) 
war;  the  great  gods,  who  love  my  sovereignty,  have  en- 
larged my  lordship,  might  and  rule;  my  important  name, 
my  exalted  fame  in  the  presence  of  (?)  the  lords  they  have 
firmly  established  for  me.  Shalmaneser,  the  king  of  all 
people,  the  prince,  the  priest  of  Ashur,  the  powerful  king, 
King  of  Assyria,  the  king  of  the  whole  of  the  four  quarters 
of  the  world;  the  sun  of  all  people,  who  holds  dominion 
over  all  countries;  the  king,  chosen  of  the  gods,  the  be- 
loved of  Bel,  the  viceroy  of  Ashur,  the  watchful,  the  lofty 
prince,  who  discovers  roads  and  difficult  (ways);  who 
treads  the  tops  of  the  mountains  (and)  all  the  mountain 
forests,  who  receives  the  tribute  and  presents  of  all  re- 
gions, who  opens  up  roads  above  and  below;  before  his 
powerful  battle  attack  the  regions  (i.  e.,  the  world)  become 
alarmed  and  the  foundations  of  the  countries  tremble  at 


34 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


the  power  of  his  bravery;  the  manly,  the  powerful,  who 
under  the  protection  of  Ashur  and  Shamash,  the  gods,  his 
helpers,  marches  and  among  the  princes  of  the  four  quar- 
ters of  the  world  has  no  rival;  the  king  of  countries,  the 
strong  (one),  who  marches  over  steep  roads,  traverses 
mountains  and  seas;  the  son  of  Ashumagirpal,  governor 
of  Bel,  priest  of  Ashur,  whose  priesthood  was  pleasing  to 
the  gods,  and  to  whose  feet  they  subjected  all  countries; 
the  brilliant  descendant  of  Tukulti-Ninib,  who  subjugated 
all  his  foes  and  overwhelmed  them  like  a  cyclone. 

At  the  time  when  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  in  the  fidelity 
of  his  heart,  with  his  clear  eyes  recognised  me,  and  called 
me  to  the  rule  of  Assyria,  a  powerful  weapon,  bringing 
destruction  to  the  insubordinate,  he  intrusted  to  me  all 
countries,  and  with  a  lofty  crown  he  adorned  my  lordship, 
?»:  *  *  he  gave  me  stern  orders  to  subjugate  and  to  sub- 
due the  enemies  of  Ashur. 

At  that  time,  at  the  beginning  of  my  rule,  in  the  first 
year  of  my  reign,  (as)  with  pomp  I  took  my  seat  upon 
the  royal  throne,  I  assembled  my  chariots  (and)  forces,  I 
entered  into  the  pass  of  Simesi.  To  the  city  Aridi,  the 
stronghold  of  Ninni,  I  approached.  I  besieged  and  cap- 
tured the  city.^  I  slew  many  of  his  warriors.  I  carried 
off  his  spoil-  A  pyramid  of  heads  in  front  of  his  city  I 
erected.  Their  young  men  (and)  women  I  burned  in  a 
bonfire.  While  I  was  quartered  in  the  city  Aridi,  I  re- 
ceived the  tribute  of  the  Hargeans,  the  Harmaseans,  the 
Simeseans,  the  Simereans,  the  Sirisheans,  the  Ulmane- 
ans,  horses  trained  to  the  yoke,  oxen,  sheep,  wine. 

I  departed  from  Aridi.  Steep  roads,  difficult  moun- 
tains, which,  like  the  point  of  an  iron  dagger,  raised  their 
peaks  to  the  skies,  with  axes  of  bronze  (and)  copper  I 
battered  down.    Chariots  (and)  forces  I  brought  through. 

I  advanced  to  Hupushkia.  Hupushkia,  together  wth 
one  hundred  neighbouring  cities,  I  burned  with  fire. 
Kakia,  King  of  Nairi,  and  the  rest  of  his  forces,  became 
afraid  before  the  brilliancy  of  my  weapons  and  betook 
themselves   to   the  mighty  mountains.      I   ascended   the 


INSCRIPTION  OF  SHALMANESER   II 


35 


mountains  after  them.  A  great  battle  I  fought  in  the 
mountains  (and)  I  accomplished  their  overthrow.  Chari- 
ots, forces,  horses  trained  to  the  yoke,  from  the  moun- 
tains I  brought  back.  The  fear  of  the  splendour  of  Ashur, 
my  lord,  overwhelmed  them;  they  came  down  (and)  seized 
my  feet.    Taxes  and  tribute  I  placed  on  them. 

From  Hupushkia  I  departed.  To  Sugunia,  the 
stronghold  of  Aramu  of  the  land  of  Urartu,  I  advanced; 
the  city  I  besieged,  I  captured.  I  slew  many  of  their 
warriors.  I  carried  off  his  spoil.  A  pyramid  of  heads  in 
front  of  his  city  I  erected.  Fourteen  of  his  neighbouring 
cities  I  burned  with  fire. 

From  Sugunia  I  departed.  To  the  sea  of  the  land  of 
Nairi  I  descended.  I  washed  my  weapons  in  the  sea. 
I  offered  sacrifices  to  my  gods.  At  that  time,  I  made 
a  life-size  image  of  myself;  the  glory  of  Ashur,  the  lord,  the 
prince,  my  lord,  and  the  might  of  my  power  I  wrote  upon 
it  and  I  set  it  up  above  the  sea.  On  my  return  from  the 
sea,  I  received  the  tribute  of  Asu  of  Guzana,  horses,  oxen, 
sheep,  wine,  two  double-humped  dromedaries;  to  my  city 
Ashur  I  brought  (them). 

In  the  month  lyyar,  on  the  13th  day  I  departed  from 
Nineveh,  I  crossed  the  Tigris  (and)  passed  over  the  moun- 
tains Hasamu  (and)  Dihnunu.  To  the  city  Lalate,  of 
Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini,  I  advanced.  The  fear  of  the  splen- 
dour of  Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed  them.  They  went 
up  to  the  [mountains].  The  city  I  destroyed,  devastated 
(and)  burned  with  fire. 

From  Lalate  I  departed.  To  the  city  of  Kira(?)qa, 
of  Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini,  I  advanced.  Ahuni,  the  son 
of  Adini,  trusted  to  the  mass  of  his  forces,  and  [to  offer] 
engagement  and  battle  [he  advanced  against  me].  Under 
the  protection  of  Ashur  and  the  great  gods  I  fought  with 
him  (and)  accomplished  his  overthrow.  I  shut  him  up  in 
his  city. 

From  Kira(?)qa  I  departed.  To  the  city  Burmarana, 
of  Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini,  [I  went.  The  city]  I  besieged 
and  captured.     Three  hundred  of  their  fighting  men  I 


36  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

brought  low  with  my  weapons.  A  pyramid  of  heads  in 
front  of  his  city  I  erected.  *  *  *  I  received  the  tribute 
of  Hapini,  of  the  city  Til-abna,  of  Gauni,  of  the  city  Sa- 
ru  *  *  *  Giri-Ramman,  *  *  *  silver,  gold,  oxen,  sheep, 
wine. 

From  Burmarana  I  departed.  In  ships  of  lamb-skins 
I  crossed  the  Euphrates.  I  received  the  tribute  of  Katazilu, 
of  the  land  of  Qummuhu,  silver,  gold,  oxen,  sheep,  wine. 

To  the  land  of  [Paqarrujhbuni,  the  cities  of  Ahuni, 
the  son  of  Adini,  on  the  other  side  of  the  Euphrates,  I  ad- 
vanced. The  overthrow  of  the  land  I  accomplished,  his 
cities  I  brought  to  destruction,  (and)  with  the  overthrow  of 
his  warriors  I  filled  the  broad  plain.  One  thousand  three 
hundred  of  his  fighting  men  I  brought  low  with  (my) 
weapons. 

From  Paqarruhbuni  I  departed.  To  the  cities  of  Mu- 
talli  of  Gamgumu  I  advanced.  I  received  the  tribute  of 
Mutalli,  of  Gamgumu,  silver,  gold,  oxen,  sheep,  wine,  and 
his  daughter  with  her  large  dowry. 

From  Gamgumu  I  departed.  To  Lutibu,  the  strong- 
hold of  Hanu  of  Samala,  I  advanced.  Hanu  of  Samala, 
Sapalulme,  the  Patinian,  Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini, 
Sangara  of  Carchemish,  trusted  to  each  other's  help,  and 
they  joined  forces.  They  advanced  to  make  battle,  and 
they  attacked  me.  With  the  splendid  forces  of  Ner- 
gal,  who  goes  before  me,  with  the  powerful  weapons 
which  Ashur,  the  lord,  presented,  I  fought  with  them,  ac- 
complished their  overthrow  (and)  I  brought  low  their 
fighting  men  with  (my)  weapons.  Like  the  god  Ramman 
I  rained  destruction  upon  them.  I  cast  them  into  the 
ditches.  With  the  corpses  of  their  warriors  I  filled  the 
broad  plain.  With  their  blood  I  dyed  the  mountain  like 
wool.  Many  chariots,  horses  trained  to  the  yoke  I  took 
away  from  him.  I  erected  a  pyramid  of  heads  in  front  of 
his  city.  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  his  cities 
with  fire.. 

At  that  time  I  was  obedient  to  the  greatness  of  the 
great  gods,  and  the  bravery  of  Ashur  and  Shamash  I  cele- 


INSCRIPTION   OF  SHALMANESER   II 


37 


brated  for  the  future.  I  made  a  large  royal  image.  The 
course  of  my  bravery  and  the  deeds  of  my  victory  I  wrote 
thereon.  At  the  head-waters  of  the  Saluara,  which  is  at 
the  foot  of  the  mountains  of  Hamani,  I  set  it  up. 

From  Hamani  I  departed.  I  crossed  the  Orontes.  To 
Ali^ir,  the  stronghold  of  Sapalulme,  the  Patinian,  I  ad- 
vanced. Sapalulme,  the  Patinian,  to  save  his  life,  Ahuni, 
the  son  of  Adini,  Sagara  of  Carchemish,  Hanu  of  Samala, 
Kateshu  *  *  *  of  Que,  Pihiri(?)  of  Hiluku,  Buranate  of 
Yasbuqu,  Ada(?)  ***lca***I  broke,  the  city  I  be- 
sieged, I  captured  *  *  *  his  numerous  chariots,  horses 
trained  to  the  yoke  *  *  *  I  carried  off.  [His  numerous 
fighting  men]  I  brought  low  with  (my)  weapons.  In  the 
same  battle,  my  hands  captured  Buranate  [of  Yasbuqu]. 
The  large  cities  of  the  Patinians  *  *  *  The  upper  [cities] 
of  the  west-land  and  of  the  western  (?)  Sea  like  the  tell 
of  a  cyclone  I  overwhelmed.  The  tribute  of  the  kings  of 
the  sea-coast  I  received.  On  the  coast  of  the  broad  sea 
righteous  and  triumphant  I  marched.  An  image  of  my 
lordship,  establishing  my  name  for  all  time,  I  made  and 
set  up  above  the  sea.  To  the  mountains  of  Hamani  I 
went  up.  Beams  of  cedar  (and)  cypress  I  cut.  To  the 
mountains  of  Atalur,  where  an  image  of  Ashur-irbi  was 
erected,  I  went.  An  image  with  his  I  set  up.  From  the 
sea  I  went  down.  Taya,  Hazazu,  Nulla,  Butamu  of  the 
Patinians,  I  captured.  Two  thousand  eight  hundred  of 
their  fighting  men  I  killed.  Fourteen  thousand  six  hun- 
dred I  carried  away  as  prisoners.  The  tribute  of  Arame, 
the  son  of  Gusi,  silver,  gold,  oxen,  sheep,  wine,  a  bed  of 
gold  and  silver  I  received. 

In  my  eponymy,  in  the  month  lyyar,  on  the  13th  day 
I  departed  from  Nineveh;  I  crossed  the  Tigris  and  passed 
over  the  mountains  Hasamu  and  Dihnunu;  to  Til-bursip, 
the  stronghold  of  Ahuni  the  son  of  Adini  I  advanced. 
Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini,  trusted  to  the  mass  of  his  forces 
and  he  attacked  me.  I  accomplished  his  overthrow;  in 
his  city  I  shut  him  up. 

From  Til-bursip  I  departed.    In  ships  of  lamb-skins  I 


38  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

crossed  the  Euphrates  during  high  water.  The  city  of 
*  *  *  aqa(?),  the  city  of  Tagi  *  *  *  Surunu,  Paripa,  Til- 
bashere,  Dabigu,  six  large  cities  of  Ahuni,  son  of  Adini, 
I  captured.  His  numerous  fighting  men  I  killed,  (and) 
their  spoil  I  carried  off.  Two  hundred  neighbouring  cities 
I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire. 

To  Dabigu,  to  Sazabu,  the  stronghold  of  Sangara  of 
Carchemish,  I  advanced.  The  city  I  besieged,  I  captured. 
Their  numerous  fighting  men  I  killed,  (and)  their  spoil 
I  carried  off.  The  neighbouring  cities  I  destroyed,  devas- 
tated (and)  burned  with  fire.  The  kings  of  the  land  *  *  * 
to  their  extent,  before  the  brilliancy  of  my  powerful  weap- 
ons and  my  raging  battle,  became  terrified  and  seized  my 
feet  *  *  *  from  the  land  of  Patina  three  talents  of 
gold,  one  hundred  talents  of  silver,  three  hundred  talents 
of  copper,  three  hundred  talents  of  iron,  one  thousand 
vessels  of  copper,  one  thousand  (pieces)  of  variegated 
cloth,  linen,  his  daughter  with  her  large  dowry,  twenty 
talents  of  purple  cloth,  five  hundred  oxen,  five  thousand 
sheep,  I  received  from  him.  One  talent  of  silver,  two 
talents  of  purple  cloth,  *  *  *  hundred  beams  of  cedar  as 
tribute  I  laid  upon  him.  Yearly  in  my  city  Asshur  I  re- 
ceived it. 

As  for  Hayanu,  son  of  Gabbaru,  at  the  foot  of  Mount 
Hamanu,  ten  talents  of  silver,  ninety  talents  of  copper, 
thirty  talents  of  iron,  three  hundred  (pieces)  of  variegated 
cloth,  linen,  three  hundred  oxen,  three  thousand  sheep, 
two  hundred  beams  of  cedar,  two  *  *  *  of  cedar,  his 
daughter,  with  her  dowry,  I  received  from  him.  Ten  mana 
of  silver,  one  hundred  beams  of  cedar,  one  hundred  *  *  * 
of  cedar  as  tribute  I  laid  upon  him.    Yearly  I  received  (it). 

As  for  Aramu,son  of  Agusi,ten  mana  of  gold,  six  talents 
of  silver,  five  hundred  oxen,  five  thousand  sheep,  I  received 
from  him.  As  for  Sangara,  of  Carchemish,  three  talents  of 
gold,  seventy  talents  of  silver,  thirty  talents  of  copper,  one 
hundred  talents  of  iron,  twenty  talents  of  purple  cloth, 
five  hundred  weapons,  his  daughter  with  (her)  dowry  and 
one  hundred  daughters  of  his  nobles,  five  hundred  oxen. 


INSCRIPTION   OF  SHALMANESER   II 


39 


five  thousand  sheep,  I  received  from  him.  Sixty  mana  of 
gold,  one  talent  of  silver,  two  talents  of  purple  cloth,  I 
laid  upon  him.  Yearly  I  received  (it)  from  him.  From 
Katazilu,  of  Qummuhu,  twenty  mana  of  silver,  three  hun- 
dred beams  of  cedar,  yearly  I  received. 

In  the  eponymy  of  Ashurbelkain,  in  the  month  Tam- 
muz,  on  the  13th  day,  I  departed  from  Nineveh.  The  river 
Tigris  I  crossed  and  I  passed  over  the  mountains  Hasamu 
(and)  Dihnunu.  At  the  city  Til-barsip,  the  stronghold  of 
Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini,  I  arrived.  Ahuni,  the  son  of 
Adini,  before  the  brilliancy  of  my  mighty  weapons  and 
my  raging  battle,  in  order  to  save  his  life,  crossed  the 
Euphrates  during  its  high  water,  and  passed  over  to  other 
lands.  By  the  command  of  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord, 
Til-barsip,  Aligu  *  *  *  Shaguka  as  my  royal  city  I  seized. 
The  men  of  Assyria  I  settled  within  (it).  Palaces  for  my 
royal  residence  I  built  in  its  midst.  Til-barsip,  Kar-Shal- 
maneser,  the  name  of  Nappigu,  Lita-Ashur,  the  name  of 
AUigu,  Agbatlakuna,  the  name  of  Rugulitu,  Ku(dur)bit, 
I  called  their  names. 

At  that  time,  to  the  city  Ashurutiraqbat,  which  the 
Haiti  call  Pitru,  which  is  on  the  river  Sagur,  beyond  the 
Euphrates,  and  Mutkinu,  which  is  on  this  side  of  the 
Euphrates,  which  Tiglath-pileser,  the  father,  the  prince,  my 
predecessor,  had  taken  by  force,  (which)  in  the  time  of 
Ashur-kirbi(?),  King  of  Assyria,  the  King  of  Aramu  had 
taken  away  by  force;  these  cities  I  restored  to  their  place, 
(and)  I  -settled  Assyrians  therein. 

While  I  was  quartered  in  Kar-Shalmaneser,  the  tribute 
of  the  kings  of  the  sea-coast,  and  the  kings  along  the  banks 
of  the  Euphrates,  silver,  gold,  lead,  copper,  vessels  of  cop- 
per (and)  iron,  oxen,  sheep,  variegated  cloth  and  linen,  I 
received. 

From  Kar-Shalmaneser  I  departed  and  crossed  over 
the  mountain  Sumu.  To  the  land  of  Bit-zamani  I  de- 
scended. 

From  Bit-zamani  I  departed.  The  mountains  Nam- 
danu  (and)  Meirsu(?)  I  crossed  over.     Steep  paths,  dif- 


40         ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

ficult  mountains,  which  like  the  point  of  a  dagger  raised 
their  peaks  to  the  skies,  with  axes  of  bronze  I  broke  down. 
Chariots  (and)  forces  I  brought  through. 

To  the  land  of  Enzite  of  the  land  of  Ishua  I  descended. 
My  hands  captured  Enzite  to  its  whole  extent.  Their 
cities  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire. 
Their  spoil,  their  possessions  and  property  without  num- 
ber, I  carried  off.  I  made  a  large  image  of  my  royalty. 
The  majesty  of  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord,  and  the 
might  of  my  power  I  wrote  (described)  thereon.  In  Sa- 
luria,  at  the  foot  of  Mount  Kirequ  I  set  it  up. 

I  departed  from  Enzite  (and)  crossed  the  river  Arzania. 
I  advanced  to  Suhme.  Uashtal,  its  stronghold,  I  captured. 
Suhme,  to  its  whole  extent,  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and) 
burned  with  fire.  Sua,  the  lord  of  their  cities,  I  took  with 
my  hand. 

From  Suhme  I  departed.  To  the  land  of  Dayaeni  I 
descended.  Dayaeni,  to  its  whole  extent,  I  captured. 
Their  cities  I  destroyed,  devastated  and  burned  with  fire. 
Their  spoil,  possessions,  large  property,  I  took  away. 

I  departed  from  Dayaeni.  To  Arzashku,  the  royal  city 
of  Arramu,  of  Urartu,  I  advanced.  Arramu,  of  Urartu, 
before  the  brilliancy  of  my  mighty  weapons,  and  my  raging 
battle,  became  afraid.  He  abandoned  his  city  and  went 
up  to  the  mountains  of  Adduri.  I  climbed  the  mountains 
after  him  and  brought  about  a  hard  battle  in  the  moun- 
tains. Three  thousand  four  hundred  of  his  fighting  men 
I  brought  low  with  (my)  weapons.  Like  Ramman  I  rained 
destruction  upon  them.  With  their  blood,  like  wool,  I 
dyed  the  mountain.  His  camp  equipment  I  took  away 
from  him.  His  chariots,  riding  horses,  horses,  bulls, 
calves,  his  property,  spoil,  his  large  possessions,  from  the 
mountain  I  brought  back.  Arramu,  in  order  to  save  his 
life,  climbed  the  difficult  mountains.  In  the  strength  of  my 
manhood,  like  a  wild  bull,  I  trampled  his  land  (and)  his 
cities  I  turned  into  ruins.  Arzashku,  together  with  its 
neighbouring  cities,  I  destroyed  [devastated  and  burned 
with  fire].     Pyramids  of  heads  in  front  of  his  city-gate  I 


INSCRIPTION   OF   SHALMANESER   II 


41 


erected.  Some  in  the  midst  [of  the  pyramids  I  walled  in]. 
Others  round  about  the  pyramids  I  impaled  on  stakes. 

From  Arzashku  I  departed.  To  the  mountains  of  the 
land  of  Eritia  [I  went.]  A  large  [image  of  my  royalty]  I 
made.  The  excellence  of  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord 
and  the  might  of  my  power,  which  I  had  exercised  in 
Urartu,  I  wrote  (described)  thereon.    In  Eritia  I  set  (it)  up. 

From  Eritia  I  departed.  To  *  *  *  Aramale  I  ad- 
vanced. His  cities  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned 
with  fire. 

From  Aramale  I  departed.  To  Zanziuna  I  advanced 
*  *  *  he  avoided  battle  and  seized  my  feet.  Horses 
trained'  to  the  yoke,  oxen,  sheep,  I  received  from 
him.  I  granted  him  favour.  *  *  *  [On  my  return]  to 
the  sea  of  Nairi  I  descended.  The  powerful  weapons  of 
Ashur  I  washed  in  the  sea.  I  [offered]  sacrifices.  [A 
large  image  of  my  royalty]  I  made.  The  excellence  of 
Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord,  the  course  of  my  bravery 
and  the  deeds  of  my  victory  I  wrote  (described)  thereon. 

From  the  sea  I  departed.  To  the  land  of  Gilzani  I 
advanced.  Asau,  King  of  Gilzani,  with  his  brothers  (and) 
his  sons  came  forth  against  me.  *  *  *  Horses  trained  to 
the  yoke,  oxen,  sheep,  wine,  seven  two-humped  drome- 
daries, I  received  from  him.  A  large  image  of  my  royalty 
I  made.  The  excellence  of  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord, 
and  the  might  of  my  power,  which  I  had  exercised  in 
Nairi,  I  wrote  (described)  thereon  (and)  in  his  city,  within 
his  temple,  I  set  (it)  up. 

From  Gilzani  I  departed.  To  Shilaya,  the  stronghold 
of  Kaki,  King  of  Hupushkia,  I  advanced.  I  besieged 
(and)  captured  the  city  (and)  killed  many  of  their  fighting 
men.  Three  thousand  prisoners,  their  oxen,  their  sheep, 
horses,  bulls,  calves,  without  number,  I  carried  off  (and) 
brought  to  my  city  Asshur.  In  the  passes  of  Enzite  I  en- 
tered.   In  the  passes  of  Kirruru,  above  Arbela,  I  came  out. 

As  for  Ahuni,  the  son  of  Adini,  who  since  the  time 
of  the  kings,  my  fathers,  had  exercised  authority  and 
power,  in  the  beginning  of  my  sovereignty,  in  the  epon- 


42  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

ymy  of  the  year  of  my  name,  I  departed  from  Nineveh. 
Til-bursip,  his  stronghold,  I  besieged.  With  my  warriors 
I  surrounded  (it)  and  joined  battle  within  it.  I  cut  down 
its  parks  and  rained  the  destruction  of  javelins  upon  it. 
Before  the  brilliancy  of  my  weapons,  the  splendour  of  my 
lordship,  he  became  afraid,  he  deserted  his  city  (and)  to 
save  his  life  he  crossed  the  Euphrates.  In  (my)  second 
year,  in  the  eponymy  of  Ashurbanauqur,  I  followed  after 
him.  The  peak  of  the  mountain  Shitamrat,  on  the  bank 
of  the  Euphrates,  which  hung  suspended  from  the  skies 
like  a  cloud,  he  had  made  his  stronghold.  By  the  com- 
mand of  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord,  and  Nergal,  who 
goes  before  me,  I  advanced  to  Shitamrat,  into  whose 
midst  among  the  kings  my  fathers,  no  one  had  approached. 
In  three  days  the  warrior  had  control  of  the  mountain, 
his  strong  heart  was  for  war,  he  climbed  the  mountain 
on  foot,  (and)  destroyed  (it).  Ahuni  trusted  to  the  mass 
of  his  forces  and  came  forth  against  me.  He  formed  a  line 
of  battle.  The  weapons  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  directed 
against  them,  and  their  overthrow  I  accomplished.  I  cut 
off  the  heads  of  his  contestants  and  with  the  blood  of  his 
fighting  men  I  dyed  the  mountain.  Many  of  his  (men) 
fled  helter-skelter  to  the  rocks  of  the  mountains.  A  hard 
battle  in  his  city  I  brought  about.  The  fear  of  the  splen- 
dour of  Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed  them,  they  came 
down  and  seized  my  feet.  Ahuni  with  his  forces,  chariots, 
riding  horses,  the  large  property  of  their  palace,  whose 
weight  was  not  taken,  I  brought  back  before  me.  caused  to 
cross  the  river  Tigris,  brought  to  my  city  Asshur,  and 
reckoned  them  with  the  people  of  my  land. 

In  that  year  I  went  to  Mazamua.  Into  the  pass  of  Bu- 
naislu  I  entered.  I  advanced  to  the  cities  Nikdime  (and) 
Nikdera.  Before  the  brilliancy  of  my  powerful  weapons 
and  my  raging  battle  they  became  afraid.  In  ships  of 
wickerwork  they  put  to  sea.  In  ships  (rafts)  of  lamb-skins 
I  followed  them.  I  forced  a  hard  battle  on  the  sea  (and) 
accomplished  their  overthrow.  I  dyed  the  sea  with  their 
blood  like  wool. 


INSCRIPTION  OF  SHALMANESER  II  43 

In  the  eponymy  of  Dan-Ashur,  in  the  month  lyyar,  on 
the  14th  day,  I  departed  from  Nineveh.  I  crossed  the 
Tigris  and  to  the  cities  of  Giammu  on  the  river  Balich  I  ad- 
vanced. They  were  afraid  of  the  terror  of  my  lordship 
(and)  the  briUiancy  of  my  powerful  weapons,  and  with  their 
own  weapons  they  killed  Giammu,  their  lord.  The  cities 
Kitlala  and  Tilshaturahi  I  entered.  I  brought  my  gods 
into  his  palaces,  and  I  made  a  festival  in  his  palaces.  I 
opened  his  store-house,  inspected  his  treasure,,  carried  off 
his  property  and  possessions,  and  brought  (them)  to  my 
city  Asshur. 

I  departed  from  Kitlala  (and)  advanced  to  Kar-Shal- 
maneser.  In  ships  of  lamb-skins,  for  the  second  time,  I 
crossed  the  Euphrates  during  its  high  water.  The  tribute 
of  the  kings  beyond  the  Euphrates,  (viz.)  Sangar  of  Car- 
chemish,  Kundashpi  of  Qummuhu,  Arame,  son  of  Gusi, 
Lalli  of  Melitu,  Hayani,  son  of  Gabari,  Kalparuda  of  Pa- 
tinu,  Kalparuda  of  Gamgumu,  silver,  gold,  copper,  ves- 
sels of  copper,  in  the  city  of  Ashuruttiraqbat,  beyond  the 
Euphrates,  on  the  Sagur,  which  the  Hatti  call  Pitru,  I  re- 
ceived. 

I  departed  from  the  Euphrates  (and)  advanced  to  Hal- 
man.  They  avoided  battle  (and)  seized  my  feet.  Silver, 
gold,  their  tribute,  I  received.  Sacrifices  to  Ramman  of 
Halman  I  offered. 

From  Halman  I  departed  (and)  to  the  cities  of  Irhuleni 
of  Hamath  I  advanced.  Adenu,  Barga,  Argana,  his  royal 
city,  I  captured.  His  spoil,  possessions,  the  property  of 
his  palaces,  I  brought  forth  (and)  his  palaces  I  set  on  fire. 

I  departed  from  Argana  (and)  advanced  to  Qarqara. 
Qarqara,  his  royal  city,  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and) 
burned  with  fire.  One  thousand  two  hundred  chariots, 
one  thousand  two  hundred  riding-horses,  twenty  thousand 
soldiers  of  Benhadad  of  Damascus;  seven  hundred  chariots, 
seven  hundred  riding-horses,  ten  thousand  soldiers  of 
Irhuleni  of  Hamath;  ten  thousand  soldiers  of  Ahab,  of 
Israel;  five  hundred  soldiers  of  the  Guians;  one  thousand 
soldiers  of  the  Egyptians;  ten  chariots,  ten  thousand  sol- 


44 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


diers  of  the  Irqanateans;  two  hundred  soldiers  of  Ma- 
tinu-bale  of  Arvad;  two  hundred  soldiers  of  the  Usana- 
tians;  thirty  chariots,  ten  thousand  soldiers  of  Aduni-balu 
of  the  Shianians;  one  thousand  camels  of  Gindubu,  the 
Arbean  *  *  *  ten  thousand  soldiers  of  Basa,  son  of 
Ruhubi,  the  Amanean;  these  twelve  (?)  kings  came  to  his 
aid.  To  make  war  and  battle  they  came  against  me.  With 
the  splendid  forces  which  Ashur,  the  lord,  had  g^ven,  with 
the  powerful  weapons,  which  Nergal,  who  goes  before  me, 
had  presented,  I  fought  with  them.  From  Qarqara  to 
Gilzan  I  accomplished  their  overthrow.  Fourteen  thou- 
sand soldiers,  their  fighting  men,  I  brought  low  with  (my) 
weapons.  Like  Ramman  I  rained  destruction  upon  them 
(and)  I  scattered  their  corpses.  I  filled  the  ruins  with  their 
numerous  soldiers;  with  my  weapons  I  made  their  blood 
to  flow  down  the  ravines  of  the  district.  The  plain  was 
too  small  for  their  complete  overthrow;  the  broad  stretch 
was  used  for  their  graves.  With  their  bodies  I  dammed 
the  Orontes  like  tiri.  In  that  battle,  their  chariots,  their 
riding-horses,  their  horses  trained  to  the  yoke,  I  took 
away  from  them. 


FRAGMENT  OF  THE  ANNALS   OF 
SHALMANESER   II 

Containing  an  account  of  his  western  campaign  in  the  eighteenth 
year  of  his  reign 

In  the  eighteenth  year  of  my  reign,  for  the  sixteenth 
time,  I  crossed  the  Euphrates.  Hazael  of  Damascus 
trusted  to  the  mass  of  his  troops  and  mustered  his  troops 
in  large  numbers.  He  made  Saniru,  a  mountain  peak 
fronting  Lebanon,  his  stronghold.  I  fought  with  him 
(and)  accomplished  his  overthrow.  I  brought  low  six 
thousand  soldiers,  his  fighting  men,  with  (my)  weapon(s); 
one  thousand  one  hundred  and  twenty-one  of  his  chariots, 
four  hundred  and  seventy  of  his  riding-horses,  with  his 


INSCRIPTION   OF   SHAMSHI-RAMMAN 


45 


camp  baggage,  I  took  away  from  him.  In  order  to  save  his 
life,  he  retreated.  I  followed  after  him  (and)  I  shut  him  up 
in  Damascus,  his  royal  city.  I  cut  down  his  parks,  I  went 
as  far  as  the  mountains  of  the  Hauran.  Cities  without 
number  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire. 
Their  spoil  beyond  reckoning  I  carried  away.  I  went 
as  far  as  the  mountains  of  Bali-rasi  by  the  sea.  I  set 
up  my  royal  image  thereon.  At  that  time,  I  received  the 
tribute  of  the  Tyrians,  the  Sidonians,  (and)  of  Jehu,  son 
of  Omri. 


INSCRIPTION    OVER   THE    BAS-RELIEFS 

(II)   ON   THE   BLACK   OBELISK 

OF   SHALMANESER   II 

Referring  to  the  tribute  of  Jehu  of  the  Omri  Dynasty 

I  HAVE  received  the  tribute  of  Jehu,  the  son  of  Omri: 
silver,  gold,  bowls  of  gold,  chalices  of  gold,  cups  of  gold, 
buckets  of  gold,  lead,  a  sceptre  of  the  hand  of  the  king 
(and)  spear-shafts(?). 


INSCRIPTION    OF    SHAMSHI-RAMMAN 
(825-812  B.  c.) 

To  Ninib,  mighty  lord,  potentate,  great  (and)  exalted, 
hero  of  the  gods,  who  holds  the  reins  of  heaven  and  earth, 
universal  ruler,  chief  of  the  Igigi,  powerful,  strong,  whose 
might  can  not  be  equalled,  first  in  rank  among  the  Anun- 
naki,  strongest  of  the  gods,  brilliant,  who  can  not  be 
rivalled,  stalwart,  the  storm  cloud,  the  exalted  lord,  who 
rides  on  the  cyclone,  who  like  Shamash,  the  light  of  the 
gods,  oversees  the  quarters  (of  the  world),  mightiest  of  the 
gods,  who  pours  forth  brilliancy,  full  of  terror,  perfect 


46  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

in  physical  strength,  first-bom  of  Bel,  supporter  of  the 
gods,  his  creators,  product  of  Esharra,  victorious  son,  who 
makes  the  heavens  brilliant,  destructive  weapon,  offspring 
of  Kutushar,  mistress  of  the  ordinances  (?)  of  Anu  and 
Dagan,  whose  word  can  not  be  altered,  all-powerful,  ex- 
alted, great,  possessed  of  strength,  with  well-developed 
muscles,  of  liberal  understanding,  clever  in  diplomacy, 
most  stalwart  of  the  gods,  exalted,  who  dwells  in  Calah, 
the  splendid  shrine,  the  large  place,  the  dwelling-place  of 
the  storm  cloud  Shamshi-Ramman,  the  powerful  king, 
king  of  the  world,  without  a  rival,  protector  of  shrines,  who 
wears  a  righteous  sceptre,  who  has  dominion  over  all 
lands,  who  rules  everything  *  *  *  whose  name  from  time 
immemorial  the  gods  called,  pure  priest,  who  restored 
Esharra,  the  tireless  one,  who  upheld  the  temple  cult,  who 
turned  his  heart  and  directed  his  attention  to  the  aflairs 
of  Eharsagkurkurra  (and)  the  temples  of  his  land,  son  of 
Shalmaneser,  king  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world),  the 
rival  of  all  princes,  who  tramples  under  foot  the  lands, 
the  grandson  of  Ashurnaqirpal,  who  receives  taxes  and 
gifts  from  every  quarter  (of  the  world). 

When  Ashurdaninpal,  in  the  time  of  Shalmaneser,  his 
father,  had  acted  in  a  hostile  manner,  incited  sedition  (and) 
rebellious  speech,  instigated  the  land  to  revolt,  gathered 
his  forces,  won  over  to  his  side  the  people  of  Assyria,  above 
and  below,  had  become  bold  of  speech,  had  alienated  the 
cities,  and  was  determined  on  war  and  battle,  Nineveh, 
Adia,  Shibaniba,  Imgur-Bel,  Ishshibri,  Bit-imdira,  Shimu, 
Shibtinish,  Udnuna,  Kibshuna,  Kurban,  Tidu,  Nabulu, 
Kapa,  Asshur,  Urakka,  Amat,  Huzirina,  Dur-balat,  Dariga, 
Zaban,  Lubdu,  Arrapha,  Arbailu,  together  with  Amedi,  Til- 
abni,  and  Hindanu,  in  all  twenty-seven  cities,  with  their 
fortifications,  which  had  alienated  themselves  from  Shal- 
maneser, king  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world),  my 
father,  (and)  had  made  common  cause  with  Ashurdaninpal, 
by  the  command  of  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  I  brought  to 
submission. 

In  my  first  campaign,  in  which  I  went  up  to  Nairi, 


INSCRIPTION   OF   SHAMSHI-RAMMAN 


47 


tribute  (in  the  form  of)  horses  spanned  to  the  yoke,  I  re- 
ceived from  all  the  kings  of  Nairi.  At  that  time,  I  swept 
over  Nairi,  throughout  its  whole  extent,  as  with  a  net. 
The  territory  of  Assyria  from  Paddira  in  Nairi  to  Kar-Shal- 
maneser  which  is  over  against  Carchemish;  from  Zaddi 
on  the  border  of  Akkad  to  Enzi;  from  Aridi  to  Suhi, 
by  the  command  of  Ashur,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Ishtar, 
the  gods,  my  helpers,  like  *  *  *  became  submissive 
to  me. 

In  my  second  campaign,  Mutarrig-Ashur,  the  rab-shak, 
wise  (and)  skilled  in  war,  a  man  of  resources,  with  my 
army  and  camp-baggage  I  ordered  and  sent  to  Nairi.  He 
marched  to  the  Western  Sea.  Three  hundred  cities  of 
Hirgina,  son  of  Miqtiara,  eleven  strong  cities  together 
with  two  hundred  cities  of  Ushpina,  he  conquered,  their 
fighting  men  he  killed,  their  spoil,  possessions,  property, 
gods,  sons  (and)  daughters  he  carried  away;  their  cities  he 
destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire.  On  his  re- 
turn, he  killed  the  fighting  men  of  the  Sunba;  and  he 
received  tribute  (in  the  form)  of  horses  spanned  to  the 
yoke  of  all  the  kings  of  Nairi. 

In  my  third  campaign  I  crossed  the  river  Zaban,  passed 
over  the  mountain  ^ilar,  (and)  went  up  to  Nairi.  I  re- 
ceived the  tribute  of  Dadi  of  Hubushkia,  of  Hirqina,  son  of 
Miqtiara,  of  the  Sunba,  the  Mana,  Parsua,  Taurla — (in 
the  form)  of  horses  spanned  to  the  yoke.  As  for  the  Misa, 
the  fear  of  the  brilliancy  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed 
them.  They  became  afraid  of  the  terror  of  my  powerful 
weapons,  and  abandoned  their  cities.  They  seized  an  im- 
passable mountain.  Three  mountain  peaks,  which,  like  a 
cloud,  hung  suspended  from  the  heavens,  which  no  bird 
could  reach  in  flight,  they  made  their  strongholds.  I  fol- 
lowed in  pursuit  of  them  (and)  surrounded  those  moun- 
tain peaks.  On  the  first  day,  I  pounced  upon  them  like  a 
vulture.  I  killed  many  of  their  fighting  men.  Their  spoil, 
possessions,  property,  oxen,  asses,  sheep,  horses  spanned 
to  the  yoke,  two-humped  dromedaries,  without  number, 
I  brought  down  from  the  mountain.    Five  hundred  of  their 


48  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

neighbouring  cities  I  destroyed,  devastated  and  burned 
with  fire. 

To  the  land  of  Gizilbunda  I  marched.  Kinaki  I  cap- 
tured, destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire.  I 
passed  over  the  Bishbizida  Mountains  (and)  received 
tribute  from  Titamashka,  of  Sasiasha,  Kiara  of  Karsibuta 
(in  the  form)  of  horses  spanned  to  the  yoke.  The  bril- 
liancy of  my  lordship  and  the  attack  of  my  terrible  battle 
overwhelmed  the  whole  of  Gizilbunda.  They  abandoned 
their  numerous  cities  (and)  entered  into  Urash,  their 
stronghold.  I  stormed  and  captured  this  city  (and),  like 
red  wool,  I  dyed  the  chief  street  of  their  city  with  the  blood 
of  their  warriors.  I  killed  six  thousand  of  their  fighting 
men.  Pirishati,  their  king,  with  twelve  hundred  of  his 
soldiers,  I  captured  alive  with  my  own  hands.  Their  spoil, 
possessions,  property,  oxen,  sheep,  horses,  vessels  of  silver, 
unalloyed  gold,  copper,  without  number,  I  carried  away, 
destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire.  I  received 
the  tribute  of  Engur  of  Qibara.  A  life-size  image  of  my 
royal  person,  which  I  had  made,  I  inscribed  with  the  deeds 
of  Ashur,  my  lord,  the  splendour  of  my  bravery,  and  what- 
ever my  hands  had  accomplished  in  Nairi,  (and)  I  set  it 
up  in  ^ibara,  the  stronghold  of  the  Gizilbunda.  I  marched 
to  Mata.  They  became  afraid  of  the  mighty  weapons  of 
Ashur  and  my  terrible  battle  attack,  which  could  not  be 
withstood,  and  they  abandoned  their  cities  (and)  ascended 
the  snow-capped  mountains.  I  followed  in  pursuit  of 
them.  I  killed  twenty-three  hundred  fighting  men  of 
Hanagiruka  of  Mata  and  took  away  one  hundred  and 
twenty  of  his  riding-horses.  His  possessions  (and)  prop- 
erty, which  could  not  be  reckoned,  I  carried  away.  Sag- 
bita,  his  royal  city,  with  twelve  hundred  of  his  cities,  I  de- 
stroyed, devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire. 

On  my  return  I  crossed  over  the  Muqi  Mountains. 
Munsuarta,  of  Araziasha,  with  ten  hundred  and  seventy  of 
his  warriors,  I  brought  low  with  my  weapons.  With  their 
corpses  I  filled  the  ravines  and  slopes  of  the  mountains. 
Their  sons,  daughters,  possessions,  property,  oxen  (and) 


INSCRIPTION  OF  SHAMSHI-RAMMAN 


49 


sheep,  the  troops  of  my  land  plundered  as  tribute  (?). 
Their  cities  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire. 
At  that  time,  the  tribute  of 

[Lines  45  to  63  contain  a  list  of  kings  who  paid  tribute] 
kings  of  Najri,  all  of  them,  by  command  of  Ashur,  Sha- 
mash,  Ramman,  the  gods,  my  protectors,  taxes  and  tribute, 
(in  the  form)  of  horses  spanned  to  the  yoke,  for  all  future 
time  I  imposed  on  them.  At  that  time  from  ^ilar  the 
great  mountain  to  the  Western  Sea,  like  Ramman,  the 
thunderer,  I  thundered  over  them.  The  fear  of  my  bril- 
liancy I  poured  out  over  them. 

In  my  fourth  campaign,  in  the  month  Slwan,  on  the 
fifteenth  day,  (I  ordered)  the  march  to  Karduniash.  I 
crossed  the  river  Zaban.  Between  Zaddi  and  Zaban  I 
passed  over  the  slopes  of  the  mountains.  I  killed  three 
fierce  lions.  I  passed  over  Ebih  (and)  besieged  Me- 
Turnat.  The  fear  of  the  brilliancy  of  Ashur  and  Marduk, 
the  great  gods,  my  lords,  overwhelmed  them  (and)  they 
embraced  my  feet.  I  brought  these  people  forth  with  their 
possessions  (and)  gods.  I  settled  them  in  my  country  and 
reckoned  them  with  the  people  of  my  country.  I  crossed 
the  river  Turnat  at  high  water.  Karne,  his  royal  city  with 
two  hundred  cities  round  about,  I  destroyed,  devastated 
(and)  burned  with  fire.  I  passed  over  Yalman  (and)  be- 
sieged Dibina.  The  terror  of  Ashur  overwhelmed  them 
(and)  they  embraced  my  feet.  Three  thousand  *  *  * 
along  with  their  people,  possessions  (and)  property  I  took 
away  from  that  city.  Datebir  (and)  Izduia  which  are  situ- 
ated by  the  side  of  Gananati,  with  two  hundred  cities  round 
about  I  captured.  I  killed  three  hundred  and  thirty  of 
their  fighting  men.  Their  spoil,  possessions,  property 
(and)  gods  I  carried  away.  I  cut  down  their  parks.  Their 
cities  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and)  burned  with  fire. 
Those  who  had  fled  before  my  mighty  weapons  entered 
Kiribti-alani  their  stronghold.  I  stormed  (and)  captured 
that  city.  I  killed  five  hundred  of  its  fighting  men.  Their 
spoil,  their  possessions,  property,  gods,  oxen  (and)  sheep 
I  carried  away.  The  city  I  destroyed,  devastated  (and) 
4 


50         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

burned  with  fire.  All  Akkad,  which  had  become  afraid  of 
the  terror  of  my  powerful  weapons  and  strong  battle  at- 
tack, which  can  not  be  withstood,  fled  to  Dur-Papsukal — 
the  royal  city  of  BaU-ahiddin,  which  is  situated  in  the 
river,  in  the  mass  of  water,  (and)  was  not  well  adapted 
to  the  attack  of  my  soldiers — (and)  with  the  people  of  four 
hundred  and  forty-seven  other  cities  they  entered  into  it. 
I  captured  this  city  in  the  course  of  my  campaign  and 
brought  low  with  my  weapons  thirteen  thousand  of  its 
soldiers.  I  made  their  blood  to  .flow  along  the  chief 
street  of  their  city  like  water.  I  piled  the  corpses 
of  their  warriors  in  heaps.  I  captured  three  thousand 
alive  with  my  own  hands.  His  royal  couch  and  seat,  the 
treasure  of  his  palace,  the  women  of  his  palaces,  his  pos- 
sessions, property,  gods,  and  all  things  necessary  to  his 
palace,  without  number,  I  carried  away  from  this  city. 
The  booty  of  his  warriors,  like  grasshoppers,  they  gave 
to  the  troops  of  my  land.  This  city  I  destroyed,  devas- 
tated (and)  burned  with  fire.  Marduk-balatsu-iqbi  trusted 
to  the  mass  of  his  troops,  and  in  addition  to  his  numerous 
troops  he  summoned  Kaldu,  Elam,  Namri,  Arumu — which 
were  without  number — ^and  he  came  against  me  for  war 
and  battle.  Above  the  river  Daban,  over  against  Dur- 
Papsukal,  he  had  drawn  up  his  troops  in  battle  array.  I 
fought  with  him  and  brought  about  his  overthrow.  I 
slaughtered  five  thousand  of  his  people  (and)  took  two 
thousand  alive  with  my  own  hands;  one  hundred  of  his 
chariots,  two  hundred  of  his  riding-horses,  his  royal  tent, 
his  bed  (and)  camp  baggage  I  took  away  from  him. 


INSCRIPTION    OF    RAMMAN-NIRARI    III 

(812-783    B.  C.) 

The  palace'  of  Ramman-Nirari,  the  great  king,  the 
powerful  king,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria,  the  king 
whom,  as  a  child,  Ashur,  king  of  the  Igigi,  called  and  to 


INSCRIPTION   OF  RAMMAN-NIRARI   III 


51 


whom  he  intrusted  a  kingdom  without  a  rival.  From  the 
great  sea  of  the  rising  of  the  sun  to  the  great  sea  of  the 
setting  of  the  sun  his  hand  conquered  and  brought  every- 
thing under  his  rule.  The  son  of  Shamshi-Ramman,  the 
great  king,  the  powerful  king,  king  of  the  world,  King  of 
Assyria,  the  king  without  a  rival.  The  son  of  Shalmaneser, 
king  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world),  who  destroyed 
all  of  his  foes  and  overwhelmed  them  like  a  cyclone. 
Grandson  of  Ashurnaqirpal,  the  manly  warrior  who  estab- 
lished garrisons  on  all  sides — Ramman-Nirari,  the  exalted 
prince,  to  whose  aid  Ashur,  Shamash,  Ramman,  and  Mar- 
duk  went  and  extended  his  country.  Descendant  of  Tu- 
kulti-Ninib,  King  of  Assyria,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad, 
descendant  of  Shalmaneser,  the  great  king,  who  enlarged 
E-har-sag-kur-kur-ra  the  mountain  of  the  lands;  descend- 
ant of  Bel-kap-kapi,  a  former  king,  a  predecessor,  of  the 
ancient  kingdom  of  Sulili,  whose  fate,  from  time  imme- 
morial, Ashur  had  proclaimed. 


INSCRIPTION    OF    RAMMAN-NIRARI    III 

The  palace  of  Ramman-Nirari,  the  great  king,  the  pow- 
erful king,  the  king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria,  the  king 
whom,  as  a  child,  Ashur,  king  of  the  Igigi,  called  and  to 
whom  he  intrusted  a  kingdom  without  a  rival;  whose  rule 
he  (Ashur)  made  beneficent  like  pasture-ground  over  the 
people  of  Assyria  and  whose  throne  he  founded;  the  pure 
priest,  who  restored  Esharra,  the  tireless,  who  upheld  the 
temple  cult,  who  marched  under  the  protection  of  Ashur, 
his  lord,  and  brought  to  submission  the  princes  of  the  four 
quarters  (of  the  world);  who  conquered  from  the  moun- 
tain Siluna,  toward  the  rising  sun,  Qab,  Ellipi,  Harhar, 
Araziash,  Misu,  Mada,  Gizilbunda  throughout  its  extent, 
Munna,  Parsua,  Allabria,  Abdadana,  Nairi,  to  its  whole 
extent,  Andiu,  which  is  afar  oflf,  the  slope  of  the  mountain, 
to  its  w^iole  extent,  as  far  as  the  great  sea  of  the  rising  of 


52 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


the  sun;  from  above  the  Euphrates,  Hatti  (the  Hittite 
Land),  Aharri,  to  its  whole  extent,  Tyre,  Sidon,  the  coun- 
try of  Omri,  Edom,  Palastu  as  far  as  the  great  sea  of 
the  setting  of  the  sun,  I  brought  to  submission,  (and)  taxes 
and  tribute  I  placed  on  them.  To  the  country  of  Damascus 
I  went.  Mari,  king  of  the  land  of  Damascus  in  Damascus, 
his  royal  city,  I  shut  up.  The  fear  of  the  brilliancy  of 
Ashur,  his  lord,  overwhelmed  him,  and  he  seized  my  feet 
(and)  became  my  servant.  Twenty-three  hundred  talents 
of  silver,  twenty  talents  of  gold,  three  thousand  talents  of 
copper,  five  thousand  talents  of  iron,  variegated  and  linen 
clothing,  an  ivory  bed,  a  seat  inlaid  with  ivory  *  *  *  his 
possessions  (and)  property  which  could  not  be  reckoned, 
in  Damascus,  his  royal  city,  in  his  palace  I  received.  The 
kings  of  Kaldu,  all  of  them,  became  servants.  Taxes  (and) 
tribute  for  the  future  I  placed  on  them.  Babylon,  Borsippa 
(and)  Kutha  supported  the  decrees  of  Bel,  Nabu  (and) 
Nergal.    Pure  sacrifices  *  *  * 


THE   NIMRUD   INSCRIPTION   OF 
TIGLATH-PILESER    III    (745-727   b.  c) 

The  palace  of  Tiglath-pileser,  the  great  king,  the  mighty 
king,  king  of  the  whole  world.  King  of  Assyria,  King  of 
Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  king  of  the  four  quar- 
ters of  the  world;  the  hero,  the  warrior,  who  under  the  pro- 
tection of  Ashur,  his  lord,  dashed  to  pieces  like  pots  all 
those  who  were  disobedient  to  him,  swept  over  them  like 
a  cyclone,  and  gave  them  to  the  winds;  the  king  who  at 
the  call  of  Ashur,  Shamash,  and  Marduk,  the  great  gods, 
marched  here  and  there  and  ruled  over  lands  from  the  Salt 
Sea  of  Bit-Yakin  to  Mount  Bikni  in  the  east,  and  from  the 
Western  Sea'  to  Egypt,  and  from  the  horizon  to  the 
zenith,"  and  exercised  kingship  over  them. 

From  the  beginning  of  my  kingship  until  the  seven- 
>  That  is,  the  Mediterranean.  •  That  is,  from  north  to  south. 


INSCRIPTION   OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  III 


53 


teenth  year  of  my  reign  I  conquered  the  peoples  of  Itu, 
Rubu  Hamarani,  Luhuatu,  Harilu,  Rubbu,  Rapiqu,  Hi- 
ranu,  Rabilu,  Na<;iru,  Gulusu,  Nabatu,  Rahiqu,  Na[kru], 
Rummulutu,  Adili,  Kipri,  Ubudu,  Gurumu,  Bagdadu, 
Hindiru,  Damunu,  Dunanu,  Nilqu,  Radi,  Da  *  *  *, 
Ubulu,  Karma,  Amiatu,  Rua,  Qabi,  Litau,  Marusu,  Amatu, 
Hagarariu,  the  cities  of  Dur-Kurigalzi,  Adidu  (?),  the 
fortresses  of  Sarragiti,  Labbanat,  Kar-belmatati,  all  of  the 
Arameans  living  in  the  valleys  of  the  Tigris,  Euphrates,  and 
Surappi  as  far  as  the  river  Uknu  on  the  coast  of  the  Lower 
Sea^;  I  killed  their  warriors  and  carried  away  their  spoil. 
I  added  the  Arameans,  as  many  as  there  were,  to  the  ter- 
ritory of  Assyria,  and  I  set  my  military  governor  over  them 
as  ruler  of  the  province. 

Upon  Tel-Kamri,  which  is  called  Humut,  I  built  a 
city  and  called  its  name  Kar-Ashur,  and  placed  in  it  the 
inhabitants  of  lands  conquered  by  my  hands.  In  Sippar, 
Nippur,  Babylon,  Borsippa,  Kutu,  Kish,  Dilbat,  and  Uruk 
— cities  without  equals,  I  offered  pure  sacrifices  to  Bel, 
^arpanit,  Nabu,  Tashmetu,  Nergal,  and  Laz,  the  great 
gods,  my  lords,  and  they  looked  with  love  upon  my  priest- 
hood. I  took  possession  of  the  broad  land  of  Karduniash 
throughout  its  entire  extent  and  exercised  kingship  over 
it.  I  overthrew  the  Puqudu  as  with  a  net,  slew  their  war- 
riors and  carried  away  great  spoil  from  them.  These  Pu- 
qudu and  the  cities  Lahiru  of  Idibirina,  Hilimmu  and  Pil- 
lutu,  which  is  on  the  border  of  Elam,  I  added  to  the  terri- 
tory of  Assyria,  and  placed  them  under  the  administration 
of  my  military  governor,  the  ruler  of  the  city  of  Arrapha. 

I  carried  away  the  Kaldudu,  as  many  as  there  were 
of  them,  and  settled  them  in  Assyria.  Chaldea  through- 
out its  entire  extent  I  overthrew  as  with  a  bird-net.  I 
killed  the  warriors  of  Nabushabshi,  son  of  Shilani,  close  by 
Sarrabanu,  his  city,  and  I  impaled  him  before  the  gate  of 
his  city,  and  reduced  his  country  to  submission.  I  cap- 
tured Sarrabanu  by  means  of  earthworks  and  battering- 
engines;  and  I  carried  off  as  spoil  fifty-five  thousand  in- 

>  That  is,  the  Persian  Gulf. 


54         ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

habitants  together  with  their  possessions,  his  spoil,  his 
goods,  his  property,  his  wife,  his  sons,  his  daughters,  and 
his  gods.  That  city  together  with  the  cities  round  about 
it  I  laid  waste,  destroyed,  burned  with  fire  and  reduced  to 
mounds  and  plough-land. 

I  captured  the  cities  Tarbagu  and  Yaballu;  and  I  car- 
ried away  as  spoil  thirty  thousand  of  their  inhabitants  to- 
gether with  their  possessions,  their  goods,  their  property, 
and  their  gods.  Those  cities  together  with  the  cities  round 
about  them  I  destroyed,  so  that  they  were  like  a  ruin  of 
the  flood. 

Zaqiru,  son  of  Sha'alli,  violated  the  compacts  sworn 
to  by  the  great  gods  and  made  common  cause  with  my 
enemies.  I  captured  him  together  with  his  great  men,  put 
iron  chains  on  them  and  took  them  to  Assyria.  The  in- 
habitants of  Bit-Sha'alli  became  afraid  and  took  possession 
of  Dur-[ilu  Illat-ai],  their  [capital]  for  their  fortress. 
I  captured  that  city  by  means  of  mines  and  battering-en- 
gines and  razed  it  to  the  ground.  I  carried  away  as  spoil 
fifty  thousand  four  hundred  inhabitants  together  with  their 
possessions,  their  spoil,  their  goods,  his  *  wife,  his  sons, 
his  daughters,  and  his  gods.  I  captured  the  city  Amlilatu; 
its  inhabitants  together  with  their  possessions,  its  spoil  and 
its  property  I  carried  away  as  spoil.  I  swept  over  Bit- 
Sha'alli  throughout  its  entire  extent  like  a  cyclone  and 
laid  waste  its  dwellings.  I  added  those  lands  to  the  ter- 
ritory of  Assyria.  I  shut  up  Ukin-zir  of  Amukkani,  in 
Sapia,  his  capital,  and  killed  his  many  warriors  before  its 
gate.  I  cut  down  the  palm-groves  which  were  close  by 
its  wall  and  I  left  not  a  tree  standing.  I  destroyed  his  date- 
palms  which  were  in  his  land,  plucked  off  their  fruit,  and 
filled  the  fields  with  it.  All  of  his  cities  I  laid  waste,  de- 
stroyed and  burned  with  fire.  I  devastated  the  lands  of 
Bit-Shilani,  Bit-Amukkani,  and  Bit-Sha'alli  throughout 
their  entire  extent  so  that  they  were  like  a  ruin  of  the 
flood,  and  I  reduced  them  to  mounds  and  plough-land.  I 
received  tribute  of  Balasu  of  Dakkuri,  and  of  Nadin,  of 

'  That  is,  Zaqlru's  wife. 


ASSAULT  OF  A    CITY  BY   TIGLATH- 
PILESER  II  {III). 

A  sculptured  slab  from  the  ruins  of  his  palace  at  Nimrud, 
the  ancient  Calah. 


INSCRIPTION   OF   TIGLATH-PILESER   III 


55 


Larak,  consisting  of  silver,  gold,  and  precious  stones.  Fear 
of  the  brilliance  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  overcame  Merodach- 
baladan,  of  Yakin,  king  of  the  sea  (-land),  who  had  not 
come  into  the  presence  of  any  of  the  kings  my  fathers  nor 
kissed  their  feet,  and  he  came  to  Sapia,  into  my  presence, 
and  kissed  my  feet.  Gold — the  dust  of  his  land — in  abun- 
dance, vessels  of  gold,  necklaces  of  gold,  precious  stones, 
the  product  of  the  sea,  beams  of  ushu-wood,  ellutu-wood, 
*  *  *  party-coloured  clothing,  spices  of  all  kinds,  cattle 
and  sheep,  I  received  as  his  tribute. 

The  lands  of  Namri,  Bit-Sangibuti,  Bit-Hamban,  Su- 
murzu,  Barrua,  Bit-Zualzash,  and  Bit-Matti;  the  city  Niqu, 
of  the  land  of  Umliash;  the  lands  of  Bit-Taranzai,  Parsua, 
Bit-Zatti,  Bit-Abdadani,  Bit-Kapsi,  Bit-Sangi,  Bit-Tazzak- 
ki,  and  Bit-Ishtar;  the  city  Zakruti;  the  lands  of  Gizinikissi 
and  Nissha;  the  cities  of  Qipur  and  Urimzan;  the  lands 
of  Rausan,  [Nijparia,  Bustus,  Ariarmi,  Tarsharranihu, 
Saksukni,  Araquttu,  Kar-Zibra,  Gukinnana,  Bit-Sagbat, 
Silhazi,  which  men  call  the  strength  of  the  Babylonian;  the 
mountain  Ruadi;  the  lands  Bit-tabti,  Ushqaqqana,  and 
Shikraki,  (a  land)  of  gold;  districts  of  the  mighty  Medes, 
throughout  their  entire  extent  I  covered  as  with  a  bird- 
net  and  I  slew  their  warriors  in  great  numbers.  I  carried 
away  as  spoil  sixty-five  thousand  people,  together  with 
their  possessions,  their  horses,  their  mules,  their  drome- 
daries, and  their  cattle  and  sheep  without  number.  Their 
cities  I  laid  waste,  destroyed  and  burned  with  fire,  and  re- 
duced them  to  mounds  and  plough-land.  The  lands  of 
Namri,  Bit-Sangibuti,  Bit-Hamban,  Sumurzu,  Bit-Barrua, 
Bit-Zualzash,  and  [Bit-]  Matti;  the  city  Niqu,  of  the  land 
of  Umliash;  the  lands  of  Bit-Taranzai,  Parsua,  Bit-Zatti, 
Bit-Abdadani,  Bit-Kapsi,  Bit-Sangi,  and  Bit-Tazzakki; 
and  the  cities  of  Bit-Ishtar  and  [Zakjruti,  of  the  land  of 
the  mighty  Medes,  I  added  to  the  territory  of  Assyria.  I 
built  anew  the  cities  which  were  in  them,  established  the 
authority  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  therein  and  placed  in  them 
people  from  the  lands  Which  my  hands  had  conquered. 
I  set  my  military  governor  over  them  as  ruler  of  the  prov- 


56         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

ince.  I  erected  an  image  of  my  lordship  in  the  land  of 
Tikrakki,  in  the  cities  of  Bit-Ishtar  and  ^ipur,  in  the 
lands  of  Ariarmi  and  Tarsharranihu,  and  in  the  city  Silhazi, 
which  are  called  the  strength  of  the  Babylonian.  I  re- 
ceived tribute  of  Media,  Ellip,  and  the  rulers  of  all  the 
cities  of  the  mountains  as  far  as  Bikni  [which  is  in  the 
east],  consisting  of  horses,  mules,  dromedaries,  cattle,  and 
sheep  *  *  *  The  might  and  majesty  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 
which  I  had  exercised  in  all  the  mountains  [he  heard  of 
and]  fear  of  the  brilliance  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed 
him,  and  to  the  city  Dur-Tiglath-pileser  *  *  *  into  my 
presence  he  came  and  kissed  [my  feet].  [Horses],  mules, 
cattle  and  sheep,  weapons,  *  *  *  [I  received  as  his  trib- 
ute]. I  sent  my  military  governor  Ashurdaninani  to  the 
land  of  the  mighty  Medes  which  is  in  the  east;  [he  seized 
five  thousand  horses,  people,  cattle  and  sheep  without 
number].  I  conquered  the  lands  of  UUuba  and  Kilhu  in 
their  entirety  and  added  them  to  the  territory  of  Assyria. 
[I  built  a  city  in  the  land  of  Ulluba  and  called  its  name 
Ashur-iqi-sha] .  I  founded  a  palace  therein  as  the  abode 
of  my  kingship;  I  established  there  the  authority  of  Ashur, 
my  lord;  I  settled  therein  people  from  the  lands  that  my 
hands  had  conquered;  and  I  set  my  military  governor  over 
them  as  ruler  of  the  province.  [Sardurri]  of  Urartu,  Su- 
lumal  of  Milid,  Tarhulara  [of  Gurgum]  *  *  *  and  Kush- 
tashpi  of  Kummuh,  [made  common  cause]  for  conquest 
and  plunder  *  *  *  between  Kishtan  and  Halpi,  districts 
of  Kummuh  [I  brought  about  their  defeat].  *  *  *  [with 
the  blood  of]  their  [slain  I  coloured]  the  Sinzi  canal  like 
dyed  wool  *  *  *  I  seized  them  in  the  midst  of  *  *  * 
royal  beds  *  *  * 

[About  one  hundred  lines  missing  here] 
*  *  *  her  [heavy  tribute  she  brought]  to  me  [and  I  set  a 
prefect  over]  her.  [The  people  of  Birai  I  subdued  be- 
neath my  feet.]  [The  people  of  Mas]ai,  Tema,  Saba, 
Haiappa,  Badana,  [Hatte,  Idibaila]  *  *  *  on  the  border 
of  the  lands  [of  the  setting]  sun,  whom  no  one  knows  and 
whose  location  is  far  off,  heard  of  the  majesty  of  my  lord- 


INSCRIPTION  OF  TIGLATH-PILESER  III 


57 


ship  and  *  *  *  [gold,  silver,]  camels,  she-camels,  and 
spices  of  all  kinds  as  one  man  [they  brought]  to  [me]  as 
their  tribute  [and  kissed  my  feet].  I  made  Idibi'il  prefect 
over  Egypt.  In  all  the  lands  which  [I  had  overthrown 
I  established  the  authority  of  Ashur].  [The  tribute]  of 
Kushtashpi,  of  Kummuh;  and  of  Urik,  of  Que;  and  of 
Sibittibi'il,  [of  Gebal]  *  *  *  [and  of  In]il,  of  Hammat; 
and  of  Panammu,  of  Samal;  and  of  Tarhulara,  of  Gurgum; 
and  of  Sul[umal,  of  Melid];  *  *  *  and  of  Uassurme,  of 
Tabal;  and  of  Ushhitti,  of  Tuna;  and  of  Urballa,  of  Tuhan; 
and  of  Tuhamme,  [of  Ishtunda] ;  *  *  *  and  of  Matanbi'il 
of  Arvad;  and  of  Sanipu,  of  Beth-Ammon;  and  of  Sala- 
manu,  of  Moab;  *  *  *  and  of  Metinti,  of  Askelon;  and 
of  Jauhazi,  of  Judah;  and  of  Kaushmalaka,  of  Edom;  and 
of  Muqri  *  *  *  and  of  Hanno,  of  Gaza;  gold,  silver,  lead, 
iron,  tin,  party-coloured  clothing,  linen,  the  purple  robes 
of  their  land  *  *  *  [whatever]  was  precious,  products  of 
sea  and  land,  the  desirable  things  of  their  land,  the  treas- 
ures of  royalty,  horses,  mules,  yoked  teams,  *  *  *  [I  re- 
ceived]. Uassurme,  of  Tabal,  sought  to  rival  the  deeds 
of  Assyria  and  did  not  come  into  my  presence.  My  mili- 
tary governor,  the  chief  officer,^  *  *  *  HuUi,  the  son  of  a 
nobody,  I  placed  on  his  royal  throne;  ten  talents  of  gold, 
one  thousand  talents  of  silver,  two  hundred  horses,  *  *  * 
I  sent  my  military  governor,  the  chief  officer,  to  Tyre; 
from  Mitenna,  of  Tyre,  [I  received]  one  hundred  and  fifty 
talents  of  gold  *  *  * 

With  the  understanding,  skill,  and  far-reaching  thought 
which  the  messenger  of  the  gods,  the  prince  Nugimmut 
had  given  me,  a  palace  of  cedar  *  *  *  and  a  porch,  like  a 
palace  in  the  land  of  the  Hittites,  I  built  for  my  enjoyment 
in  the  city  of  Kalhi  *  *  *  I  increased  the  area  of  ground 
more  than  that  of  the  former  palaces  of  my  fathers  from 
the  middle  of  the  Tigris  *  *  *  I  employed  the  archi- 
tectural skill  (?)  of  all  the  clever  workmen  *  *  *  Twenty 
great  cubits  below  the  mighty  waters  I  piled  up  strong 
granite  like  a  mountain-pile  and  *  *  *   [on  right]   *  *  * 

•  Literally,  the  Rab-shak,  cf.  Isaiah,  xxxvi,  2,  4,  etc. 


58  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

I  laid  out  their  terraces,  made  their  foundations  firm  and 
reared  their  turrets  aloft.  One  half  gar,  two  thirds  cubit 
the  house  *  *  *  l  joined  together  and  I  set  up  their 
gates  on  the  north  side.  With  ivory,  ushu-wood,  urkarinu- 
wood,  palm-wood  *  *  *  [cypress,]  *  *  *  [pistachio,] 
juniper,  the  tribute  of  the  kings  of  the  Hittites,  the  princes 
of  Aram  and  Chaldea,  whom  by  the  might  of  my  strength 
I  had  brought  to  my  feet  *  *  *  I  filled.  Five  and  a  half 
gar,  four  cubits  from  the  bottom  of  the  water  to  the  battle- 
ments I  bound  their  structure  together  and  made  their 
work  greater  than  that  of  the  palaces  of  the  lands.  I  cov- 
ered them  with  long  beams  of  cedar,  which  like  the  fra- 
grance of  hashurri-wood  are  good  for  their  perfume,  and 
are  the  product  of  Amanus,  Lebanon,  and  Ammanana,  and 
I  joined  them  firmly.  In  order  to  make  the  decorations 
splendid  *  *  *  with  stones  hewn  by  the  stone-cutter  I 
built  and  adorned  the  gate.  Doors  of  cedar  and  cypress, 
in  pairs,  whose  entrance  brings  blessing  and  whose  fra- 
grance arouses  the  heart,  I  bound  with  a  rim  of  zahalu- 
metal  and  bright  metal  and  hung  in  the  gateway.  Lions 
and  bull-colossi,  whose  forms  were  exceedingly  artistic  and 
clothed  with  splendour,  I  made  to  hold  the  entrances  and 
set  them  up  as  objects  of  wonder.  I  laid  thresholds  of 
Im-tu  stone  and  alabaster  beneath  them  and  made  the  en- 
trance bright.  I  also  built  a  statue  to  keep  guard  over 
the  great  gods;  I  surrounded  the  sides  with  the  product 
of  the  ocean  depths  and  I  invested  it  with  terror.  I  sur- 
rounded them  with  braces  (?)  of  gold,  silver,  and  copper 
for  their  completion  and  I  made  their  forms  resplendent. 
For  my  royal  dwelling,  a  habitation  of  sassu  precious 
stones,  the  work  of  *  *  *  I  built  therein.  "  Palaces  of 
joy,  yielding  abundance,  bestowing  blessing  upon  the  king, 
causing  their  builder  to  live  long,"  I  called  their  names. 
"Gates  of  righteousness,  guiding  the  judgment  of  the 
prince  of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world,  making  the  tribute 
of  the  mountains  and  the  seas  to  continue,  causing  the 
abundance  of  the  lands  to  enter  before  the  king,  their  lord," 
I  named  their  gates. 


CYLINDER  OF  SARGON  59 

THE  CYLINDER   INSCRIPTION   OF 
SARGON   (722-705  B.  c) 

Sargon,  the  governor  of  Bel,  the  exalted  priest  of 
Ashur,  the  darling  of  Anu  and  Dagan,  the  great  king,  the 
powerful  king,  the  king  of  the  world,  the  King  of  Assyria, 
the  king  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world),  the  favourite 
of  the  great  gods,  the  legitimate  ruler,  to  whom  Ashur  and 
Marduk  granted  a  kingdom  without  equal  and  the  fame  of 
whose  name  they  sent  forth  to  the  ends  of  the  earth;  who 
exercised  watchful  care  over  Sippar,  Nippur,  and  Babylon, 
who  protected  their  weak  points  and  restored  their  ruins; 
who  preserved  the  supremacy  of  (the  city)  Asshur,  which 
had  ceased;  ^  who  imposed  servitude  on  Dur-ilu  and  paci- 
fied its  people  by  force. 

The  strongest  of  all  princes,  who  extended  his  pro- 
tection over  Harran  and,  in  accordance  with  the  will  of 
Anu  and  Dagan,  wrote  its  charter.  The  manly,  the  pow- 
erful, clothed  with  (awe-inspiring)  splendour,  who  sent 
forth  his  weapons  for  the  overthrow  of  (his)  enemies. 

The  king,  who  from  the  day  of  his  accession  had  no 
rival  prince  and  in  contest  and  battle  did  not  find  a  supe- 
rior, who  dashed  to  pieces  all  the  lands  like  pots  and  en- 
slaved (?)  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world);  who  explored 
mighty  mountains  without  number — ^though  their  passes 
were  steep — and  found  a  way  through  them,  who  marched 
over  inaccessible  (and)  difficult  paths — terrible  regions — 
and  crossed  the  sources  of  streams;  who  held  sway  from 
Rashi  on  the  border  of  Elam,  the  people  of  Puqudu,  the 
people  of  Damunu,  the  cities  Dur-Kurigalzu  and  Rapiqu, 
over  all  the  wilderness  to  the  brook  of  Egypt,  over  the 
broad  west-land,  the  land  of  the  Hittites  to  its  whole  ex- 
tent, whose  strong  hand  conquered  from  the  land  of  Hash- 
mar  to  the  land  of  Qimashpatti,  the  far-off  land  of  the 
Medes  in  the  east,  the  land  of  Namru,  the  land  of  Ellip, 

■  Delitzsch :  who  removed  servitude  from  Dur-ilu  and  gave  peace  to 
its  people. 


6o         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Bit-Hamban,  Parsua,  Manna,  Urartu,  Kashku,  Tabal  to 
Muski;  who  placed  his  miHtary  officers  as  governors  over 
them  and  imposed  on  them  taxes  and  tribute,  as  if  they 
were  Assyrians. 

The  courageous  hero,  who  measured  his  strength  in 
the  open  street  of  Dur-ilu  with  Humbanigash,  King  of 
Elam,  and  brought  about  his  overthrow,  who  took  away 
by  force  the  Kurtesa,  who  had  raided  (?)  his  territory  (?); 
who  led  into  captivity  the  people  of  Tumuna,  who  had 
bound  (?)  their  prince  and  had  brought  him  before  the 
Chaldean  king;  who  devastated  the  broad  Bit-Humri 
(land  of  Israel),  who  brought  about  the  overthrow  of 
Egypt  at  Raphia  and  brought  Hanno,  King  of  Gaza,  bound 
to  the  city  of  Asshur;  who  conquered  the  tribes  Tamud, 
Ibadidi,  Marsiman,  and  Haiapa,  who  punished  (?)  the  rest 
of  them  and  settled  them  in  colonies  in  Bit-Humri. 

The  strong  one  in  battle,  who  caught  the  lonians  in  the 
midst  of  the  sea  like  fish  in  large  numbers  (?);  who  pacified 
by  force  Que  and  Tyre.  The  powerful  king,  the  royal 
protector,  who  broke  the  palisades  of  Shinuhtu,  laid  its 
site  in  ruins  and  burned  Kiakku,  their  king,  like  stubble; 
who  transplanted  the  people  of  Bit-Burutash  ,whose  prince 
had  forgotten  the  favours  of  Sargon  and  put  his  trust  in 
the  kings  of  Urartu  and  Musku,  strong  powers;  who  drove 
out  Meta,  King  of  Musku,  and  restored  the  fortresses  of 
Que,  which  had  been  taken,  and  enlarged  their  territory. 

A  man  of  courage,  fearless  of  opposition,  who  uprooted 
Hamath,  who  dyed  the  skin  of  Ilubidu,  the  usurper  (?), 
like  red  wool;  who  seized  Carchemish  in  the  hostile  Hit- 
tite  country;  whose  strong  hand  captured  Pisiri,  their  sub- 
ject, who  had  planned  a  revolt;  who  made  desolate  the 
land  of  Urartu,  despoiled  the  Mu^agiru;  before  whom 
Ursa,  King  of  Urartu,  in  his  great  fear  took  his  life  with 
his  own  weapon;  who  changed  the  sites  of  Papa,  Laluknu, 
Sukkia,  Bala,  Abitikna,  who  had  intrigued  openly  against 
the  land  of  Kakmu;  who  swept  over  Andia  and  Zikirtu, 
who  killed  all  their  young  men  like  wild  animals  and 
sprinkled  over  all  enemies  deadly  poison. 


CYLINDER  OF  SARGON  6l 

The  powerful  one,  perfect  in  might  and  strength,  who 
subjugated  the  stubborn  Medes;  who  destroyed  the  people 
of  Harhar  and  enlarged  the  territory  of  Assyria;  who  re- 
united the  disorganized  Manna,  who  brought  about  order 
in  EUip,  which  had  been  in  disorder,  who  established  (his) 
dominion  over  all  the  lands  round  about  and  made  his 
name  famous;  who  trampled  under  foot  the  land  of  Kirhu, 
plundered  (?)  the  mountain-country  of  the  strong  enemy; 
who  drove  out  Itti,  the  Allabrian  robber,  from  his  city; 
who  destroyed  Karalla,  who  decorated  the  skin  (?)  of 
Ashur-leu,  their  city  prefect,  like  a  garment  (?)  and  im- 
posed the  yoke  of  Assyria  upon  Ada  of  Shurdu. 

The  prudent  king,  full  of  noble  plans,  who  directed  his 
attention  to  the  colonizing  of  ruined  sites,  to  the  opening 
up  of  the  land  and  the  planting  of  qippat-cane;  who  turned 
his  energy  to  make  the  high  mountains,  on  which  from 
time  immemorial  nothing  green  had  sprouted,  to  bear  prod- 
uce; who  planned  to  make  the  broad,  waste  land,  which 
under  former  kings  had  not  been  irrigated,  to  bring  forth 
grain  and  to  resound  with  rejoicing,  to  reconstruct  reser- 
voirs (?),  which  had  fallen  in  (?),  and  dams,  and  to  furnish 
water  in  abundance  to  all  parts  of  the  country  like  a  mighty 
flood. 

The  king  open  to  suggestion,  with  a  clear  insight 
*  *  *  who  grew  up  in  wise  counsel  and  matured  in  di- 
plomacy. To  fill  the  granaries  of  the  broad  country  of  As- 
syria with  food  in  rich  abundance  and  with  provisions  in 
plenty  (?),  as  becomes  royalty,  to  protect  the  firstlings  of 
admu  (?)  against  hunger  and  want  and  to  guard  against  the 
lack  of  grain  and  such  things  as  the  heart  desires,  so  that — 
in  spite  of  the  destruction  of  wine — no  needy  one  be  found; 
in  order  that  oil,  the  boon  of  men,  which  heals  ulcers, 
may  not  be  too  dear  in  my  land,  to  make  sesame-corn 
of  the  same  price  with  com,  to  order  my  banquets  as  be- 
comes the  table  of  god  and  king,  bill-boards  with  set  prices 
of  everything  to  set  upon  my  boundaries  *  *  * 

I  planned  day  and  night  to  rebuild  that  city,  I  gave  or- 
ders to  build  therein  a  shrine  for  Shamash,  the  great  judge 


62  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

of  the  great  gods,  who  helped  me  to  victory.  Magganub- 
ba,  which  stands  like  a  monument  at  the  foot  of  Mount 
Mugru  above  the  wells  and  the  street  of  Nineveh,  whose 
site  among  the  three  hundred  and  fifty  ancient  kings,  who 
before  me  exercised  authority  over  Assyria  and  ruled  over 
the  subjects  of  Bel  no  one  had  touched,  no  one  had  known 
how  to  colonize  it  and  no  one  had  remembered  to  dig 
its  canal  (moat),  with  my  broad  understanding,  which  by 
the  command  of  the  king  of  the  deep  and  lord  of  wisdom 
was  filled  with  diplomacy  and  full  of  clever  schemes,  and 
with  the  broad  plans  of  my  mind — I,  whom  the  queen  of 
the  heavenly  crown,  the  mother  of  the  gods,  had  inspired 
to  greater  plans  than  the  kings,  my  fathers,  I  planned 
and  schemed  day  and  night  to  people  that  city,  to  build 
high  sanctuaries,  the  homes  of  the  great  gods,  and  palaces 
for  the  residence  of  my  lordship,  and  I  gave  orders  to  re- 
build it. 

For  the  sake  of  my  good  name,  by  which  the  great 
gods  had  called  me  to  protect  right  and  justice,  to  rule 
over  the  defenceless  and  not  to  harm  the  weak,  I  paid 
money  to  the  owners  in  silver,  and  copper  for  the  fields  of 
that  city  according  to  the  price-list,  and  to  avoid  injustice 
I  gave  to  those,  who  did  not  wish  money  for  their  fields, 
field  for  field,  wherever  they  desired.  For  the  progress 
of  its  building  before  ***(?)!  offered  a  sacrifice  (?) 
with  fervid  prayer  to  the  brothers  Damqu  and  Sharru-ilu, 
the  judges  of  mankind,  and  I  lifted  up  my  hand  (in  prayer) 
in  the  chamber  of  the  World-architect  to  Sha-nit(?)-ka, 
that  I  might  in  future  days  enter  it  with  a  joyful  heart 
and  good  spirits.  The  sincere  speech  of  my  mouth  like 
the  finest  oil  was  very  pleasing  to  the  exalted  prophets  (?) 
my  lords,  and  they  gave  me  orders  to  rebuild  that  city  and 
to  dig  its  canal  (moat).  I  trusted  their  word,  which  no  one 
can  render  void,  I  mustered  my  numerous  young  men 
and  made  them  to  carry  allu  and  dupshikku.* 

In  the  beginning  of  the  month  of  the  son  of  Dara-gala 

'  Allu  =  basket  (?),  dupshikku  =  cap  of  service  ;  they  were  forced  to  do 
hard  service. 


CYLINDER  OF  SARGON  63 

(Ea),  who  gives  decisions,  who  warns  from  snares,  of  the 
light  of  heaven  and  earth,  hero  of  the  gods,  Sin,  which  re- 
ceived its  name  "  Month  of  the  Brick-God  "  by  a  decree 
of  Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea,  lord  of  wisdom,  because  in  it  bricks 
are  made,  and  cities  and  houses  built;  on  the  festival  day 
of  the  son  of  Bel,  the  all-wise  Nabu,  writer  of  all  tablets, 
ruler  of  all  the  gods,  I  ordered  the  making  of  its  bricks; 
to  the  brick-god,  the  lord  of  brick  foundations,  and  the 
chief  architect  of  Bel,  I  offered  a  sacrifice  and  poured  out 
libations  and  lifted  up  my  hands  (in  prayer).  In  Ab, 
the  month  of  the  servant  of  the  fire-god,  who  destroys 
fresh  vegetation,  who  lays  the  platform  foundations  of  city 
and  house,  I  founded  it  and  laid  its  brick. 

Well-founded  shrines,  which  were  founded  as  if  for  all 
time,  I  built  therein  to  Ea,  Sin,  Ningal,  Ramman,  Shamash, 
and  Ninib.  I  built  a  palace  of  ivory,  of  ushu-wood,  of 
box(?)-wood,  of  palm(?)-wood,  of  cedar-,  cypress-,  juniper-, 
and  pistacia-wood  for  my  royal  residence;  I  constructed 
a  colonnade  after  the  style  of  a  Hittite  palace  in  front  of 
its  gates,  and  I  covered  it  with  beams  of  cedar  and  cypress. 
Four  sar,  three  ner,  one  sos,  three  kane,  two  cubits,^  the 
(numerical)  value  of  my  name,  I  made  the  measure  of  its 
wall,  and  laid  its  platform  foundation  on  stones  from  the 
high  mountains. 

In  front  and  behind,  on  both  sides,  in  the  direction 
of  the  eight  winds  I  opened  eight  city-gates:  "  Shamash, 
who  granted  to  me  victory,"  "  Ramman,  who  controls  its 
prosperity,"  I  named  the  gates  of  Shamash  and  Ramman  on 
the  east  side;  "  Bel,  who  laid  the  foundation  of  my  city," 
"  Belit,  who  gives  riches  in  abundance,"  I  named  the 
gates  of  Bel  and  Belit  on  the  north  side;  "  Anu,  who  gave 
success  to  the  work  of  my  hands,"  "  Ishtar,  who  causes  its 
people  to  flourish,"  I  made  the  names  of  the  gates  of  Anu 
and  Ishtar  on  the  west  side;  "  Ea,  who  controls  its 
springs,"  "  Belit-ilani,  who  grants  to  it  numerous  off- 
spring," I  ordered  to  be  the  names  of  the  gates  of  Ea  and 
Belit-ilani  on  the  south  side.     (I  called)  its  inner  wall 

>  4  X  3,600  +3x600  +  60  +  3x6  +  2  =  16,280  cubits. 


64  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"  Ashur,  who  granted  long  reign  to  the  king,  its  builder,  and 
protected  his  armies  " ;  and  its  outer  wall  "  Ninib,  who  laid 
the  foundation  of  the  new  building  for  all  time  to  come." 

The  subjects  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world,  speak- 
ing) strange  languages  and  varied  dialects,  inhabitants  of 
mountain  and  plain,  over  whom  the  warrior  of  the  gods, 
lord  of  all,  rules,  whom  I  had  carried  into  captivity  in  the 
name  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  with  my  powerful  staff,  I  made  of 
one  speech  and  settled  them  therein. 

I  sent  to  them  Assyrians,  men  of  knowledge  and  in- 
sight, learned  men  and  scribes,  to  teach  them  the  fear  of 
God  and  king.  The  gods,  who  dwell  in  heaven  and  on 
earth  and  in  that,  city,  looked  with  favour  upon  my  com- 
mand and  granted  to  me  for  all  time  (the  privilege  of  the) 
building  of  the  city  and  (of)  making  it  permanent. 

Whoever  alters  the  work  of  my  hands,  tears  down  my 
images,  covers  the  bas-reliefs  which  I  make,  destroys  my 
insignia:  may  Ashur,  Shamash,  Ramraan,  and  the  gods 
dwelling  therein  remove  his  name  and  seed  from  the  land 
and  set  him  bound  at  the  feet  of  his  enemy! 


THE   MERODACHBALADAN   STONE   IN 
BERLIN   (721-710  B.  c.) 

When  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  the  wisest  of  the  gods, 
the  king  of  everything,  the  autocrat  of  the  Igigi  and  the 
Anunnaki,  the  most  perfect  commander,  the  herald  of  all 
heaven  and  earth,  the  adviser  of  the  gods,  his  creators,  the 
lord  of  that  which  is  above  and  below;  the  ruler  of  man- 
kind, whose  words  can  not  be  made  void,  whose  command 
can  not  be  altered,  granted  (his)  favour  to  Akkad,  from 
which  he  had  turned  away  in  wrath;  he  looked  about 
among  all  men,  he  searched  the  abodes  among  all  the  Black- 
headed  People,  to  all  habitations,  every  one,  he  gave  faith- 
ful attention — Merodachbaladan,  King  of  Babylon,  who 
was  under  the  guidance  of  his  hand,  the  governor  of  Sumer 


THE   MERODACHBALADAN  STONE  6$ 

and  Akkad,  who  feared  his  divinity,  he  looked  upon  with 
joy,  and  he  gave  orders  by  word  of  mouth  to  exalt  his 
lordship:  "This  is  the  ruler,  who  collects  the  scattered." 
He  intrusted  to  his  hands  a  righteous  sceptre,  a  staff  lead- 
ing the  people  aright.  He  submitted  to  his  order  the 
giving  of  counsel  to  Sumer  and  Akkad,  the  judgment  of 
all  men.  He  made  the  power  of  his  lordship  great  in  the 
assembly  of  the  princes. 

At  that  time  Merodachbaladan,  King  of  Babylon,  the 
prince,  the  adviser,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  who  feared 
Nabu  and  Marduk,  the  gods  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  who 
filled  their  granaries  (?)  with  plenty,  who  made  brilliant 
all  temples,  repaired  all  shrines,  who  ruled  Sippar,  Nip- 
pur, and  Babylon  aright,  who  put  into  effect  their  laws; 
who  built  the  temples,  confessionals  (?)  and  shrines  of 
the  large  cities,  who  yearly  hastened  to  bring  (?)  before 
the  great  gods  his  rich  tribute,  the  riches  of  the  broad 
sea,  plenty  in  abundance  (?),  toll  and  presents,  who 
sought  out  the  commands  of  the  lord  of  the  gods,  who 
prostrated  himself  before  him  (?),  who  directed  his  atten- 
tion to  the  repairing  of  temples,  to  the  peopling  of  cities, 
and  to  the  sacred  care  of  the  districts  (?)  of  the  gods;  the 
faithful  governor,  who,  under  the  protection  of  the  great 
gods,  marches  here  and  there  and  attains  his  goal,  who 
gathers  together  the  inhabitants  of  the  countries,  who  were 
scattered,  and  returns  them  to  their  abodes;  the  exalted 
prince,  who  in  power  and  strength  (?)  does  not  have  his 
like;  the  powerful  hero,  at  the  mention  of  whose  name  his 
enemy  is  cruelly  driven  out  befoi-e  him,  the  firmest  (?) 
foundations  (?)  are  torn  down;  who,  with  the  mighty 
power  of  Bel,  attained  whatever  his  heart  desired;  clothed 
with  power,  of  ancient  royal  seed,  who  holds  unstained 
the  name  of  his  father,  his  begetter;  the  offspring  of  Erba- 
Marduk,  King  of  Babylon,  who  founded  the  country,  who, 
in  the  temples  of  the  cities  of  the  great  gods,  placed  works 
of  art;  the  clever  prince,  of  broad  view,  the  diplomatic 
arbitrator,  who  understands  everything,  of  broad  insight 
and  deep  understanding,  who  is  his  own  counsellor;  whose 
5 


66         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

birth  Beltis,  the  mother  of  the  gods,  celebrated;  whose 
name  to  dominion  over  the  Black-headed  People  the  king 
of  heaven  and  earth,  the  lord  of  lords,  faithfully  proclaimed; 
(then)  he,  with  the  wisdom  of  his  deeds,  the  clever  under- 
standing which  Ea,  the  source  of  all  creation,  presented 
him;  with  the  broad  plans  with  which  the  "  Lord  of  Wis- 
dom "  (Ea)  intrusted  him,  the  holy  places  of  Nabu  and 
Marduk,  his  lords,  (he)  took  under  his  care  and  to  give 
ground-plots  to  the  subjects  in  Sippar,  Nippur,  Babylon, 
and  the  cities  of  Akkad  was  his  command. 

The  old  ground-plots  of  the  Babylonians,  which  the 
soldiers  of  the  enemy  in  the  destruction  (of  the  country) 
had  taken  away,  and  whose  boundaries,  during  the  time 
there  was  no  fixed  government,  foreigners  being  pres- 
ent (?)  in  large  numbers  (?),  were  forgotten — surveys  were 
not  established;  their  boundary-stones  (?)  were  changed 
but  not  destroyed — ^he  returned  to  their  (original)  owner- 
ship, and  to  the  subjects  in  Babylon  and  Borsippa  he  in- 
trusted. A  single  one  he  did  not  pass  over;  to  young  and 
old  he  gave  (caused  to  take)  alike,  and  he  fixed  the  bound- 
ary; he  made  it  larger  than  before,  and  caused  their  spirits 
to  rejoice.  To  the  subjects,  as  many  as  there  were,  he 
gave  protection,  presented  gifts,  and  granted  livings. 

At  that  time  Bel-ahe-erba,  mayor  of  Babylon,  his  obedi- 
ent servant,  under  the  guidance  of  his  hand,  Merodachbala- 
dan,  the  kind,  his  lord,  with  his  shining  face,  like  a  god, 
joyfully  looked  upon,  and  16,600  cubits,  upper  length,  S, 
adjoining  Bel-ana-matishu  and  the  "  Fifty  "  of  the  Baby- 
lonians, 16,600,  lower  length,  N,  adjoining  the  "  Fifty  "  of 
the  Babylonians,  and  the  canal  Suru;  1,200,  the  upper 
breadth,  W,  40  (?)  apportioned  (?)  pi-it  (?)  of  Erba-Mar- 
duk.  King  of  Babylon;  1,200,  lower  breadth,  E,  adjoining 
tam-li-ta  me,  in  all:  50  gur  of  plough-land,  according  to 
the  large  square  cubit,  land  on  the  canal  Suri. 

Ten  thousand  cubits,  upper  length,  W,  adjoining  Nabu- 
gamil,  son  of  Karea,  and  the  plot  of  the  city  Bit-ashani; 
10,000,  lower  length,  E,  adjoining  Kudurru,  son  of  Egibi, 
and  Ahiddin,  son  of  Mushallimapli;  1,600,  upper  breadth. 


THE   MERODACHBALADAN   STONE  67 

N,  adjoining  the  royal  domain;  1,600,  lower  breadth,  S, 
on  the  bank  of  the  canal  of  Aheshullim,  opposite  the  city 
Nabatu.  In  all:  54  gur  2  pi  6  qa  of  plough-land,  accord- 
ing to  the  large  square  cubit,  the  field  of  Nabatu. 

Two  gur  of  plough-land,  according  to  the  large  square 
cubit,  date-palm  garden,  field  of  Dunni-edin,  on  the  bank 
of  the  royal  canal;  3,300  cubits,  upper  length,  S,  on  the 
bank  of  the  royal  canal,  3,300,  lower  length,  N,  adjoin- 
ing the  libbu  of  the  field,  and  bordering  on  the  grove 
of  Marduk,  son  of  Kanik-babi;  400,  upper  breadth,  W, 
bordering  on  the  park  of  Belamma,  the  weaver's  son;  30, 
lower  breadth,  E,  nurzu  (?)  on  the  bank  of  the  royal  canal; 
and  3  gur  of  plough-land,  according  to  the  large  square 
cubit,  *  *  *  in  front  of  the  upper  park  of  the  libbu  of 
the  field;  upper  length,  S,  bordering  on  the  park;  lower 
length,  N,  bordering  on  the  libbu  of  the  field;  upper 
breadth,  W,  bordering  on  the  field  of  Nammua,  son  of 
the  priest  of  Ramman;  lower  breadth,  E,  bordering  on 
Marduk.  In  all:  five  gur  of  plough-land,  according  to 
the  large  square  cubit,  park  together  with  plough-land, 
in  front  of  the  park,  field  of  the  city  Dunni-edin,  on  the 
bank  of  the  royal  canal. 

Sum  total,  90  +  9  gur  2  pi  6  qa  of  plough-ground,  ac- 
cording to  the  large  square  cubit,  plot  of  the  royal  domain, 
Merodachbaladan,  King  of  Babylon,  to  Belaherba,  may- 
or (?)  of  Babylon,  his  servant,  presented  and  in  order  that 
there  might  not  be  a  suit  to  recover,  with  the  seal  of  his 
name  he  sealed  it  and  for  all  time  he  gave  to  him. 

In  the  sealing  of  this  tablet,  Iqisha-Marduk,  son  of  the 
king;  Ninib-belshunu,  son  of  Nazi-Ea;  Marduk-zakir- 
shum,  son  of  Arad-Ea,  the  prefect;  Nabii-balatsu-iqbi; 
Ina-dibbi(?)-Bel-AB,  city  officer  of  Babylon;  Nabu-hama- 
tua,  major-domo;  Labashi-Marduk,  son  of  Dabibi,  direct- 
or of  Esagila;  Nabu-ta,  son  of  Arkati-ilani-damqa,  may- 
or (?)  of  Borsippa;  Ishum-bani,  son  of  Sin-pi-sharri-ishme, 
mayor  (?)  of  Kutha;  and  Nabu-nir-dabibi,  palace  secretary, 
were  present.  Babylon,  twenty-third  of  Tammuz,  seventh 
year  of  Merodachbaladan,  King  of  Babylon. 


68  ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Whoever  in  the  future,  whether  king,  or  king's  son,  or 
prefect,  or  governor,  or  director,  or  city  officer,  whose  name 
the  great  lord  Marduk  may  proclaim  and  who  exercises 
authority  over  Akkad,  to  destroy  this  tablet  directs  his  at- 
tention, in  any  way  whatever  practises  deceit,  urges  and 
orders  any  one,  an  enemy,  a  deaf  person,  a  fool,  a  block- 
head, a  short-sighted  (?)  ignorant  (person),  a  knave,  who 
does  not  fear  the  great  gods,  with  wicked  intentions  sends, 
changes  its  position,  throws  (it)  in  the  water,  hides  (it) 
in  the  ground,  bums  (it)  with  fire,  erases  (it)  with  a  stone, 
sets  it  in  a  secret  place,  places  it  where  it  can  not  be  seen, 
obliterates  the  signature,  directs  his  attention  to  take  away 
the  ground-plot,  the  gift,  which  Merodachbaladan,  King 
of  Babylon,  presented  to  Belaherba,  mayor  (?)  of  Babylon, 
that  man,  may  Anu,  Ea,  and  Bel,  the  great  gods,  present 
with  a  curse  which  can  not  be  undone,  with  blindness, 
deafness,  paralysis  of  the  muscles!  May  he  suffer  misery! 
May  Marduk,  ^arpanit,  the  lords,  who  decide  fates,  cause 
him  to  undergo  heavy  punishment!  May  they  afflict  him 
with  dropsy!  May  his  life  (skin)  come  to  an  end  with 
bloated  flesh  (?)!  May  the  great  gods,  as  many  as  have 
their  names  mentioned  on  this  tablet,  his  name,  his  seed, 
his  progeny,  destroy  in  the  mouth  of  the  people!  May 
they  cut  off  his  future! 

With  the  royal  seal  used  in  dispositions,  which  has  no 
like  and  against  which  there  can  be  no  suit  to  recover,  this 
tablet  has  been  sealed  (?). 


THE   TAYLOR   CYLINDER   OF 
SENNACHERIB,   KING  OF  ASSYRIA 

(705-681    B.  C.) 

Sennacherib,  the  great  king,  the  powerful  king,  king 
of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria,  king  of  the  four  quarters  of 
the  world;  the  watchful  shepherd,  the  favourite  of  the 
great  gods,  who  protects  the  truth,  who  loves  the  right, 


TAYLOR  CYLINDER  OF   SENNACHERIB  69 

who  comes  to  the  help  of  and  lends  assistance  to  the  weak, 
who  frequents  the  sanctuaries;  the  perfect  hero,  the  man 
of  war,  chief  of  all  princes;  the  great  one,  who  consumes 
the  rebellious,  who  strikes  the  hostile  with  lightning — 
Ashur,  the  great  mountain,  has  granted  me  a  kingdom 
without  rival,  and  he  has  made  my  arms  prevail  over  all 
who  dwell  in  princely  halls.  From  the  Upper  Sea  of  the 
Setting  Sun  to  the  Lower  Sea  of  the  Rising  Sun  he  has 
made  submissive  to  me  the  Black-headed  People,  and  the 
rebellious  princes  have  shunned  battle  with  me,  abandoned 
their  homes,  and  like  a  falcon  in  the  clefts  they  have  fled 
alone  to  an  inaccessible  place. 

In  my  first  campaign,  in  the  vicinity  of  Kish,  I  brought 
about  the  oveirthrow  of  Merodachbaladan,  King  of  Kardu- 
niash,  together  with  the  troops  of  Elam,  his  allies.  In 
the  midst  of  that  battle  he  abandoned  his  camp,  and  saved 
his  life  by  fleeing  alone.  My  hands  captured  the  chariots, 
horses,  freight  wagons  (and)  mules  which  he  had  left  be- 
hind in  the  onset  of  battle.  I  entered  his  palace,  which 
is  in  Babylon,  with  joy  and  opened  his  trieasure  house;  gold 
and  silver,  vessels  of  gold  and  silver,  precious  stones  of 
every  description,  possessions,  and  goods,  without  number, 
a  heavy  tribute,  his  palace  women,  his  ministers,  his  male 
and  female  musicians,  all  the  artisans,  as  many  as  there 
were,  his  palace  officials,  I  brought  forth  and  reckoned 
as  spoil.  With  the  might  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  besieged, 
captured,  and  carried  away  the  spoil  of  seventy-five  of 
the  large,  walled  cities  of  Kaldu  and  of  four  hundred 
and  twenty  of  the  smaller  cities  round  about  them.  The 
Arabians,  Arameans,  and  Chaldeans  of  Uruk,  Nippur, 
Kish,  Harsagkalama,  Kutha,  and  Sippara,  together  with 
the  inhabitants  of  the  cities  who  were  rebellious  I 
brought  forth  and  reckoned  as  spoil.  On  my  return, 
the  Tumuna,  the  Rihihu,  the  Yadaqqu,  the  Ubudu,  the 
Kipre,  the  Malahu,  the  Gurumu,  the  U-bu-lum,  the 
Damunu,  the  Gambulu,  the  Hindaru,  the  Ru'ua,  the 
Puqiidu,  the  Hamranu,  the  Hagaranu,  the  Nabatu,  the 
Litau,  Arameans,  who  were  rebellious,  I  conquered  en 


70         ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

masse.  Two  hundred  and  eight  thousand  people,  small 
and  great,  male  and  female,  horses  and  mules,  asses,  camels, 
cattle,  and  sheep,  without  number,  a  heavy  spoil,  I  carried 
away  to  Assyria.  During  the  course  of  my  campaign  I 
received  from  Nabu-bel-shanati,  the  prefect  of  Hararati, 
g;old,  silver,  tall  palms  (?),  asses,  camels,  cattle,  and  sheep, 
his  rich  present.  The  men  of  Hirimmu,  a  stubborn  enemy, 
I  brought  low  with  my  weapons,  and  a  single  one  did  not 
escape.  Their  corpses  I  hung  on  posts  and  placed  them 
round  the  city.  I  reconquered  that  district,  and  for  the 
gods  of  Assyria,  my  lords,  I  set  aside  for  all  time  one 
steer,  ten  rams,  ten  measures  of  wine,  twenty  measures  of 
dates,  its  first  fruits. 

In  my  second  campaign,  Ashur,  my  lord,  gave  me  his 
support,  and  I  marched  to  the  country  of  the  Kassites  and 
of  the  Yasubigalli,  who  from  time  immemorial  had  not 
been  submissive  to  the  kings,  my  fathers.  Through  the 
high  mountain  forests,  a  rough  country,  I  rode  on  horse, 
and  I  hauled  up  my  chariot  with  ropes.  The  steepest 
places  I  climbed  on  foot  like  a  wild  ox.  I  besieged  and 
captured  Bit-Kilamzah,  Hardishpi,  and  Bit-Kubatti,  their 
large  walled  cities.  I  brought  forth  from  their  midst 
people,  horses,  mules,  asses,  cattle,  and  sheep,  and  reck- 
oned them  as  spoil;  and  their  smaller  cities,  which  were 
without  number,  I  destroyed,  devastated,  and  reduced  to 
plough-land.  The  tents,  their  dwelling-places,  I  burned 
with  fire,  and  let  them  go  up  in  flames.  I  returned  and 
used  the  city  Bit-Kilamzah  as  a  fortress.  I  made  its  walls 
stronger  than  ever,  and  I  settled  therein  the  people  of  the 
countries  captured  by  my  hands.  I  brought  down  from 
the  mountains  the  Kassites  and  Yasubigalli,  and  made 
them  dwell  in  the  cities  Hardishpi  and  Bit-Kubatti.  I 
placed  them  under  the  control  of  my  military  officer,  the 
prefect  of  Arrapha.  I  had  a  tablet  prepared,  and  I  in- 
scribed upon  it  my  great  victory  which  I  had  gained  over 
them,  and  I  set  it  up  in  the  city.  I  turned  about  and 
took  the  road  to  the  country  of  Ellipi.  Before  me  Ispa- 
bara,  their  king,  abandoned  his  strong  cities,  his  treasure 


TAYLOR  CYLINDER  OF  SENNACHERIB 


71 


houses,  and  fled  to  a  distant  place.  I  swept  over  the  whole 
of  his  broad  land  like  a  wind  storm.  Marubishti  and  Ak- 
kuddu,  cities  of  his  royal  house,  together  with  thirty-four 
smaller  cities  round  about  them,  I  besieged,  captured,  de- 
stroyed, devastated,  and  burned  with  fire.  People,  small 
and  great,  male  and  female,  horses,  mules,  asses,  camels, 
cattle,  and  sheep,  without  number,  I  carried  away  and  I 
reduced  him  to  nothing  and  cut  down  his  territory.  The 
cities  ^i^irtu  and  Kummahlum,  large  cities,  together  with 
the  smaller  cities  round  about  them,  the  district  Bit-Barru, 
to  its  whole  extent,  I  cut  away  from  his  land  and  added 
to  the  territory  of  Assyria.  I  took  the  city  Elenzash  for 
a  royal  city  and  fortress  for  that  district,  and  I  changed  its 
former  name  and  called  its  name  Kar-Sennacherib.  I  set- 
tled therein  the  people  of  the  countries  captured  by  my 
hands  and  I  placed  them  under  the  control  of  my  mili- 
tary officer,  the  prefect  of  Harhar,  and  I  enlarged  my  ter- 
ritory. On  my  return,  I  received  the  heavy  tribute  of  the 
far-off  Medes,  the  mention  of  whose  country  no  one  among 
the  kings,  my  fathers,  had  heard,  and  I  made  them  submit 
to  the  yoke  of  tny  lordship. 

In  my  third  campaign  I  marched  to  the  land  of  the 
Hittites.  Lull  (Elulseos),  King  of  Sidon,  was  overcome 
by  the  fear  of  the  splendour  of  my  lordship,  and  fled  far 
away  to  the  sea,  and  I  subdued  his  land.  Great  Sidon, 
Little  Sidon,  Bit-Zitti,  Sarepta,  Mahalliba,  Usha,  Ekdippa, 
Akko,  his  large  walled  cities,  stations  for  food  and  water, 
his  garrisons,  the  might  of  the  weapons  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 
overcame  and  they  submitted  to  me.  Tubalu  (Ethobal) 
I  placed  over  them  on  the  royal  throne,  and  my  lordship's 
tribute  and  taxes  yearly  without  fail  I  imposed  on  him. 
Menahem  of  the  city  of  Samsimuruna,  Ethobal  of  Sidon, 
Abdiliti  of  Arvad,  Urumilki  of  Byblos,  Mitinti  of  Ashdod, 
Buduilu  of  Beth-Ammon,  Kammusunadbi  of  Moab,  Malik- 
rammu  of  Edom,  kings  of  the  West  Land — ^all  of  them — 
brought  rich  presents,  their  heavy  gifts,  with  merchandise, 
before  me  and  kissed  my  feet.  As  for  ^idqa,  the  King  of 
Askelon,  who  had  not  submitted  to  my  yoke,  I  took  by 


72 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


force  the  gods  of  his  father's  house,  himself,  his  wife,  his 
sons,  his  daughters,  his  brother,  the  seed  of  his  father's 
house,  and  carried  them  to  Assyria.  Sharruludari,  the  son 
of  Rukibti,  their  former  king,  I  placed  over  the  people 
of  Askelon,  and  I  imposed  on  him  the  giving  of  taxes,  a 
present  for  my  lordship,  and  he  became  tributary  to  me. 
During  the  course  of  my  campaign  I  besieged,  captured, 
and  carried  away  the  spoil  of  Beth-Dagon,  Joppa,  Beni- 
barqa,  and  Azuru,  cities  belonging  to  Qlidqa,  which  had 
not  at  once  submitted  to  me.  The  governors,  chiefs,  and 
people  of  Ekron,  who  had.  cast  Padi,  their  king,  who  was 
under  treaty  and  oath  to  Assyria,  into  chains  of  iron,  and 
had  handed  him  over  to  Hezekiah  of  Judah — ^in  a  hostile 
manner  he  had  shut  him  up  in  a  dungeon — ^became  afraid. 
They  summoned  the  kings  of  Egypt,  the  bowmen,  chari- 
ots and  horses  of  the  King  of  Meluhha — innumerable 
forces,  and  they  came  to  their  help.  In  the  vicinity  of 
Eltekeh  they  arranged  (their)  battle  array  against  me  and 
forced  a  battle.  Under  the  protection  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 
I  fought  with  them  and  accomplished  their  defeat.  The 
charioteers  and  the  sons  of  the  King  of  Egypt  and  the 
charioteers  of  the  King  of  Meluhha  I  captured  alive,  with 
my  hands,  in  battle.  I  besieged,  captured,  and  carried 
away  the  spoil  of  Eltekeh  and  Timnath.  I  advanced  to 
Ekron  and  I  killed  the  governors  and  chiefs,  who  had 
brought  about  rebellion,  and  I  hung  their  corpses  on  poles 
round  about  the  city.  The  inhabitants  of  the  city  who 
were  in  the  opposition  and  riot  I  reckoned  as  spoil.  The 
rest  of  them,  who  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  rebellion  and 
disgraceful  proceedings,  who  were  not  guilty,  I  ordered  to 
be  set  free.  Padi,  their  king,  I  brought  forth  from  Jeru- 
salem, and  I  placed  him  on  the  throne  of  lordship  over 
them.  My  lordship's  tribute  I  imposed  on  him.  But  as 
for  Hezekiah  of  Judah,  who  had  not  submitted  to  my  yoke, 
forty-six  of  his  strong  walled  cities  and  the  smaller  cities 
round  about  them,  without  number,  by  the  battering  of 
rams,  and  the  attack  of  war-engines  (?),  by  making 
breaches,  by  cutting  through,  and  the  use  of  axes,  I  be- 


TAYLOR   CYLINDER   OF  SENNACHERIB 


73 


sieged  and  captured.  Two  hundred  thousand  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  people,  small  and  great,  male  and  female, 
horses,  mules,  asses,  camels,  cattle,  and  sheep,  without 
number,  I  brought  forth  from  their  midst  and  reckoned 
as  spoil.  (Hezekiah)  himself  I  shut  up  like  a  caged  bird 
in  Jerusalem,  his  royal  city.  I  threw  up  fortifications 
against  him,  and  whoever  came  out  of  the  gates  of  his  city 
I  punished.  His  cities,  which  I  had  plundered,  I  cut  off 
from  his  land  and  gave  to  Mitinti,  King  of  Ashdod,  to 
Padi,  King  of  Ekron,  and  to  ^il-Bel,  King  of  Gaza,  and 
(thus)  made  his  territory  smaller.  To  the  former  taxes, 
paid  yearly,  tribute,  a  present  for  my  lordship,  I  added  and 
imposed  on  him.  Hezekiah  himself  was  overwhelmed  by 
the  fear  of  the  brilliancy  of  my  lordship,  and  the  Arabians 
and  faithful  soldiers  whom  he  had  brought  in  to  strengthen 
Jerusalem,  his  royal  city,  deserted  him.  Thirty  talents  of 
gold,  eight  hundred  talents  of  silver,  precious  stones,  guhli 
daggassi,  large  lapis  lazuli,  couches  of  ivory,  thrones  of 
elephant  skin  and  ivory,  ivory,  ushu  and  urkarinu  woods, 
of  every  kind,  a  heavy  treasure,  and  his  daughters,  his 
palace  women,  male  and  female  singers,  to  Nineveh,  my 
lordship's  city,  I  caused  to  be  brought  after  me,  and  he 
sent  his  ambassador  to  give  tribute  and  to  pay  homage. 

In  my  fourth  campaign,  Ashur,  my  lord,  gave  me  his 
support;  I  mustered  my  numerous  troops  and  ordered  the 
march  to  Bit-Yakin.  During  the  course  of  my  campaign, 
I  accomplished  the  defeat  of  Shuzub,  the  Chaldean,  who 
dwelt  in  the  swamps  in  Bittutu.  He  was  overcome  by  my 
fierce  battle  attack,  lost  courage,  and  like  a  bird  (?)  he 
fled  alone  and  no  further  trace  was  seen  of  him.  I  turned 
about  and  took  the  road  to  Bit-Yakin.  Merodachbaladan, 
whose  defeat  I  had  accomplished  in  my  first  campaign,  and 
whose  power  I  had  broken,  feared  the  clash  of  my  powerful 
weapons  and  my  mighty  battle  attack,  and  he  collected  all 
the  gods  of  his  land  into  their  shrines,  embarked  them  on 
ships,  and  fled,  like  a  bird,  to  Nagite-raqqi  in  the  sea. 
His  brothers,  the  seed  of  his  father's  house,  whom  he  had 
left  by  the  sea,  together  with  the  rest  of  the  people  of 


74  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

his  land,  I  brought  forth  from  Bit-Yakin,  from  the  swamps 
and  marshes,  and  reckoned  as  spoil.  I  returned  and  de- 
stroyed and  devastated  his  cities  and  reduced  them  to 
plough-land.  Upon  his  confederate,  the  King  of  Elam,  I 
poured  out  fury.  On  my  return  I  placed  Ashumadinshum, 
my  first-born  son,  reared  on  my  knees,  on  the  throne  of  his 
lordship,  and  I  made  the  broad  land  of  Sumer  and  Akkad 
subject  to  him. 

In  my  fifth  campaign,  the  men  of  Tumurri(?),  Sharum, 
Egama,  Kibshu,  Halbuda,  Qua,  and  Qana — ^whose  dwell- 
ings, like  the  nest  of  the  eagle,  the  king  of  birds,  were 
located  upon  the  peaks  of  Mount  Nipur,  a  steep  mountain 
— had  not  yielded  to  my  power.  I  pitched  my  camp  at  the 
foot  of  Mount  Nipur,  and  with  my  splendid  bodyguard 
and  my  unrelenting  warriors,  like  a  strong  wild  ox  I  led 
the  attack.  I  crossed  the  clefts,  ravines,  mountain  tor- 
rents, difficult  high  waters,  in  a  chair.  Where  it  was  too 
steep  to  make  use  of  the  chair,  I  clambered  on  foot.  Like 
a  mountain  goat  I  climbed  to  the  highest  peaks.  Where- 
ever  there  was  a  resting-place  for  my  knees  I  sat  down  on 
a  rock.  For  my  thirst,  I  drank  cold  water  out  of  skins. 
Upon  the  peaks  of  the  mountains  I  pursued  them  and  I 
accomplished  their  overthrow.  I  captured,  spoiled,  de- 
stroyed, and  devastated  their  cities  and  burned  them  with 
fire.  I  turned  about  and  took  the  road  against  Maniae, 
king  of  the  city  of  Ukku  in  the  country  of  Dale,  who  was 
still  unconquered.  Into  the  unopened  paths  and  difficult 
trails  before  the  rough  mountains,  none  of  the  kings  my 
predecessors  had  ever  marched.  I  pitched  my  camp  at  the 
foot  of  the  great  mountains  Anara  and  Uppa.  In  my  chair 
with  my  splendid  soldiers,  with  great  trouble,  I  entered 
their  narrow  passes,  and  with  difficulty  I  climbed  the  steep 
mountain  peaks.  Maniae  saw  the  dust  of  the  feet  of  my 
soldiers,  abandoned  his  royal  city  Ukku,  and  fled  to  a  dis- 
tant place.  I  besieged  and  captured  Ukku.  I  carried 
away  spoil  of  every  description,  his  possessions  and  prop- 
erty. I  brought  forth  the  treasure  of  his  palace  and  reck- 
oned it  as  spoil.     I  captured  thirty-three  cities  on  the 


TAYLOR  CYLINDER  OF  SENNACHERIB  75 

border  of  his  district,  and  carried  away  from  them  men, 
asses,  cattle,  and  sheep.  I  (then)  destroyed,  devastated, 
and  burned  them  with  fire. 

In  my  sixth  campaign — the  rest  of  the  people  of  Bit- 
Yakin  had  run  away  before  my  powerful  weapons,  like  wild 
asses,  and  had  collected  all  the  gods  of  their  country  into 
their  shrines,  and  had  crossed  over  the  Great  Sea  of  the 
Rising  Sun  and  had  made  their  homes  in  the  city  Nagitu, 
of  the  land  of  Elam — in  Hittite  boats  I  crossed  the  sea. 
Nagitu,  Nagitu-dibina,  together  with  Hilmu,  Pillatu,  and 
the  land  of  Hupapanu,  districts  of  Elam,  I  conquered.  The 
people  of  Bit-Yakin,  together  with  their  gods  and  the 
people  of  the  King  of  Elam,  I  carried  oH,  and  I  did  not 
leave  a  rebel  behind.  I  embarked  them  on  ships,  made 
them  cross  over  to  the  other  side  and  take  the  road  to 
Assyria.  The  cities  of  those  districts  I  destroyed,  devas- 
tated, and  burned  with  fire,  and  I  converted  them  into 
mounds  and  plough-land.  On  my  return,  in  an  open  bat- 
tle, I  accomplished  their  defeat  and  captured  with  my  own 
hands  Shuzub,  the  Babylonian,  who,  on  account  of  an 
uprising  in  the  land,  had  seized  the  government  of  Sumer 
and  Akkad.  I  threw  him  into  fetters  and  chains  of  iron, 
and  brought  him  to  Assyria.  The  King  of  Elam,  who 
had  supported  him  and  marched  to  his  aid,  I  defeated.  I 
scattered  his  forces  and  broke  his  power. 

In  my  seventh  campaign,  Ashur,  my  lord,  gave  me  his 
support,  and  I  marched  to  Elam.  During  the  course  of  my 
campaign  I  captured  and  despoiled  Bit-Hairi  and  Raga, 
cities  belonging  to  the  territory  of  Assyria,  which  the 
Elamites  had  taken  by  force  in  the  reign  of  my  fathers. 
I  placed  in  them  soldiers  from  my  garrisons,  brought  them 
within  the  territory  of  Assyria,  and  placed  them  under  the 
control  of  the  chief  of  Halgu-dur-shame-irqiti.  The  cities 
of  Bube,  Dunni-Shamash,  Bit-risia,  Bit-ahlame,  Duru, 
Dantisula,  Shiliptu,  Bit-aqusi,  Karmubasha,  Bit-giggi,  Bit- 
kappalani,  Bit-Imbia,  Hamanu,  Bit-Arrabi,  Burutu,  Dintu- 
sha-Sula,  Dintu-sha-Tur(?)-bit-etir,  Hur(?)riashlake,  Ra- 
ba,  Rasu,  Akkabarina,  Til-uhuri,  Hamranu,  Naditu,  to- 


76         ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

gather  with  the  cities  at  the  entrance  toward  Bit-bunaki, 
Til-Humbi,  Dintu-sha-Dumeilu,  Bit-Ubia,  Baltilishir,  Ta- 
gablishir,  Shanaqidati,  Masutu-shaplitu,  Sarhuderi,  Alum- 
sha-tarbit,  Bit-Ahiddina,  Ilteuba,  thirty-four  large  cities 
and  the  smaller  ones  round  about  them,  without  number, 
I  besieged,  captured,  despoiled,  destroyed,  devastated,  and 
burned  with  fire.  Like  a  heavy  cloud  I  covered  the  face  of 
the  broad  heavens  with  the  smoke  of  their  burning  ruins. 
When  Kudur-Nahundu,  the  Elamite,  heard  of  the  capture 
of  his  cities,  he  was  overcome  with  terror,  (and)  he  brought 
his  remaining  cities  within  fortifications.  He  left  Ma- 
dakte,  his  royal  city,  and  took  the  road  to  Haidala  in  the 
far-distant  mountains.  I  ordered  the  march  to  Madakte, 
his  royal  city.  In  the  month  Tebet  cold  weather  set  in, 
the  heavens  poured  down  a  mass  of  rain,  rain  upon  rain, 
and  snow.  Fearing  the  mountain  streams  and  torrents, 
I  turned  back  and  took  the  road  to  Nineveh.  At  that 
time,  by  the  command  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  Kudur-Na- 
hundu, did  not  live  three  months.  At  an  unexpected  time 
and  suddenly  he  died.  After  him,  Ummanmenanu,  who 
was  without  judgment  and  reason,  his  younger  brother, 
took  his  seat  upon  the  throne. 

In  my  eighth  campaign,  after  Shuzub  had  been  carried 
ofif,  and  the  Babylonians,  rebellious  devils,  had  bolted  their 
city-gates,  the  making  of  a  rebellion  was  planned.  Around 
Shuzub,  the  Chaldean,  the  rebellious  (?)  weakling,  who  had 
no  courage,  who  was  under  the  influence  (?)  of  the  prefect 
of  Lahiru,  a  fugitive  (?)  and  deserter,  a  wicked,  bloodthirsty 
fellow,  they  gathered  and  they  went  into  the  swamps  and 
made  a  revolt.  I  surrounded  him  with  a  cordon  of  sol- 
diers and  pressed  him  hard.  On  account  of  terror  and 
distress  he  fled  to  Elam.  Threatened  by  conspiracies  and 
crimes,  he  hastened  from  Elam  and  entered  Babylon.  The 
Babylonians  illegitimately  placed  him  on  the  throne,  and 
intrusted  to  him  the  rule  of  Sumer  and  Akkad.  They 
opened  the  treasure  house  of  Esagila  and  the  gold  and  sil- 
ver of  Bel  (and)  (Jarpanit,  which  they  had  brought  forth 
from  the  temples  of  their  gods,  they  gave  as  a  bribe  to 


TAYLOR  CYLINDER  OF  SENNACHERIB 


n 


Ummanmenanu,  the  King  of  Elam,  who  was  without 
judgment  and  reason,  (saying  to  him):  "Assemble  thy 
army,  bring  together  thy  camp,  hasten  to  Babylon,  stand 
by  us,  our  confidence  is  in  thee."  That  Elamite,  whose 
cities  in  the  course  of  a  former  campaign  against  Elam  I  had 
captured  and  converted  into  plough-land,  took  no  heed, 
but  accepted  their  bribe,  assembled  his  soldiers  and  camp, 
collected  his  chariots  and  freight  wagons,  and  put  horses 
and  mules  in  harness.  The  lands  of  Parsuash,  Anzan,  Pa- 
shiru,  Ellipi,  Yazan,  Lagabra,  Harzunu,  Dummuqu,  Sula, 
Samuna,  the  son  of  Merodachbaladan,  Bit-Adini,  Bit- 
Amukkani,  Bit-Sillana,  Bit-Sala-udud-akki,  Lahiru,  the 
Puqudu,  the  Gambulu,  the  Halatu,  the  Rua,  the  Ubulu,  the 
Malahu,  the  Rapiqu,  the  Hindaru,  the  Damunu,  a  great 
confederation,  he  gathered  about  him.  All  of  them  took  the 
road  to  Akkad  and  came  to  Babylon.  They  joined  them- 
selves to  Shuzub,  and  their  forces  were  united.  Like  the 
coming  of  locust  swarms  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  together 
they  came  to  do  battle  against  me.  The  face  of  the  broad 
heavens  was  covered  with  the  dust  of  their  feet  like  a 
heavy  cloud,  pregnant  with  mischief.  Before  me  in  the 
city  of  Halule,  on  the  bank  of  the  Tigris,  the  line  of  battle 
was  formed,  they  attacked  and  joined  battle.  I  prayed  to 
Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Bel,  Nabii,  Nergal,  Ishtar  of  Nine- 
veh, Ishtar  of  Arbela,  the  gods  in  whom  I  had  confidence, 
that  I  might  conquer  the  powerful  enemy.  They  gave  ear 
to  my  prayers  at  once  and  came  to  my  help.  I  was  as 
fierce  as  a  lion,  and  I  put  on  my  cuirass  and  covered  my 
head  with  a  helmet,  the  sign  of  war.  In  the  anger  of  my 
heart  I  drove  furiously  in  my  splendid  war  chariot,  which 
overthrows  the  enemy.  I  seized  the  strong  bow  which 
Ashur  had  intrusted  to  me,  and  I  grasped  the  javelin  which 
destroys  life.  Against  all  the  troops,  wicked  enemies,  in 
my  distress,  I  raged  like  a  storm,  I  roared  like  Ramman. 
By  command  of  Ashur,  the  great  lord,  my  lord,  on  flank 
and  front  I  attacked  the  enemy  like  the  coming  of  a  terrible 
storm.  With  the  weapons  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  and  my 
mighty  battle  attack,  I  destroyed  their  front  and  brought 


78  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

about  their  retreat.  With  arrow  and  lance  I  cut  off  the 
hostile  soldiers,  and  I  cut  my  way  *  *  *  through  the  mass 
of  their  corpses.  Humbanundasha,  the  chief  of  the  King 
of  Elam,  energetic  (and)  careful,  the  leader  of  his  troops, 
his  great  support — ^together  with  his  chief  men — ^whose 
girdle  dagger  was  inlaid  with  gold  and  whose  arms  were 
bound  with  double  bracelets  of  pure  gold,  like  fat  steers, 
hobbled  with  chains,  I  cut  down  quickly  as  with  an  axe, 
and  I  accomplished  their  destruction.  I  cut  their  necks 
like  wild  animals,  their  precious  lives  I  cut  in  two  like  a 
cord.  Like  a  heavy  storm,  I  scattered  their  trophies  and 
arms  over  the  broad  field.  The  swift  steeds  harnessed  to 
my  chariot  swam  in  the  mass  of  their  blood  as  in  a  river. 
Blood  and  filth  poured  down  on  the  wheels  of  my  war 
chariot,  which  overthrows  the  bad  and  the  good.  I  filled 
the  field  with  the  corpses  of  their  warriors,  as  with  herbs. 
I  cut  out  their  *  *  *  and  destroyed  their  *  *  *  Like 
the  seeds  of  ripe  cucumbers  I  cut  off  their  hands.  The 
double  bracelets  of  gold  and  bright  silver  which  were  on 
their  arms  I  took  off.  With  sharp  swords  I  cut  off  their 
noses  (?).  I  took  away  the  gold  and  silver  girdle  daggers 
which  they  carried.  The  rest  of  his  great  men,  together 
with  Nabu-shum-ishkun,  the  son  of  Merodachbaladan, 
who  feared  battle  with  me,  gathered  their  auxiliaries.  In 
the  midst  of  the  battle  I  seized  them  alive  with  my  hands. 
I  brought  together  the  chariots  with  their  horses,  whose 
drivers,  in  the  terrible  battle  attack,  had  been  killed,  while 
they  were  left  careering  about  by  themselves.  It  con- 
tinued until  the  fourth  hour  of  the  night.  I  then  put  a 
stop  to  their  slaughter.  Like  a  bull,  the  fury  of  my  battle 
overwhelmed  Ummanmenanu,  King  of  Elam.  together 
with  the  King  of  Babylon,  the  princes  of  Chaldea,  who  had 
come  to  his  support.  They  left  their  tents,  and  to  save 
their  lives  they  trampled  under  foot  the  corpses  of  their 
soldiers  and  fled.  Like  young  captured  birds,  they  lost 
heart.  With  their  *  *  *  they  soiled  their  chariots  and  they 
left  their  *  *  *  behind  them.  I  ordered  my  chariot  and 
horses  to  go  in  pursuit  of  them.    Their  fugitives,  who  had 


TAYLOR  CYLINDER   OF   SENNACHERIB 


79 


fled  for  their  lives,  were  run  through  with  swords  wher- 
ever they  were  captured. 

At  that  time,  after  I  had  completed  the  palace  in  Nine- 
veh as  a  dwelling  for  my  royalty,  I  adorned  it  with  orna- 
ments for  the  astonished  gaze  of  all  people.  As  for  the 
Side-palace,  which  the  kings,  my  predecessors,  my  fore- 
fathers, had  built  for  the  stowing  away  of  the  camp  bag- 
gage, the  stalling  of  horses,  and  the  storing  of  all  sorts  of 
things,  it  had  no  foundation,  its  room  was  too  small,  and 
its  construction  was  not  artistic.  In  course  of  time,  its 
platform  foundation  had  become  weak,  its  foundation  had 
collapsed  and  its  superstructure  was  in  ruins.  I  tore  that 
palace  down  completely.  I  took  a  large  piece  of  ground 
from  the  swamp  and  vicinity  of  the  city,  in  accordance 
with  the  plans  of  the  architect,  and  added  to  it.  I  aban- 
doned the  site  of  the  old  palace,  and  on  the  ground  in  the 
swamp  which  I  had  reclaimed  from  the  river  bed  I  built 
up  a  terrace,  and  raised  the  top  of  it  to  a  height  of  two 
hundred  tibki.  In  a  favourable  month,  on  an  auspicious 
day,  with  the  co-operation  of  my  clever  architects,  I  built 
on  that  terrace,  in  the  wisdom  of  my  heart,  a  palace  of  pilu 
stone  and  cedar,  in  the  Hittite  style,  and  a  splendid  palace 
— as  a  dwelling  for  my  lordship — ^in  the  Assyrian  style, 
which  far  exceeded  the  former  one  in  size  and  artistic  effect. 
Large  cedar  trunks,  such  as  grow  on  the  snow-capped 
Mount  Amanus,  I  used  for  their  roofs.  I  bound  the  doors 
of  liyari  wood  with  straps  of  bright  copper  and  hung  them 
in  their  gateways.  With  white  pilu-stone,  such  as  is  found 
in  the  Balata,  I  built  splendid  lamasse  and  shede,  and  sta- 
tioned them  on  the  right  and  left.  For  the  rule  of  the 
Black-headed  People,  the  storing  of  horses,  mules,  calves, 
asses,  chariots,  freight  wagons  (?),  quivers,  bows,  arrows, 
all  kinds  of  weapons  for  war,  harness  for  horses  and  mules, 
which  have  great  strength  when  yoked,  I  greatly  enlarged 
its  *  *  *  space.  That  palace  I  built  from  its  foundation 
to  its  roof  and  completed  it.  A  tablet,  the  record  of  my 
name,  I  placed  in  it.  For  future  days,  whoever — among 
the  kings,  my  sons,  whom  Ashur  and  Ishtar  shall  call  to 


8o  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

rule  over  the  land  and  people — the  prince  may  be  when 
this  palace  becomes  old  and  ruined,  may  he  repair  its 
damages,  may  he  see  the  inscription,  the  record  of  my 
name,  cleanse  it  with  oil,  offer  sacrifices,  and  return  it  to 
its  place;  then  Ashur  and  Ishtar  will  hear  his  prayer. 
Whoever  alters  my  writing  and  name,  may  Ashur,  the 
great  lord,  father  of  the  gods,  treat  him  as  an  enemy,  and 
take  sceptre  and  throne  from  him  and  overthrow  his  rule! 
(Dated)  In  the  month  Adar,  the  eponymy  of  Bel-imu- 
rani,  prefect  of  Carchemish. 


THE  MURDER  OF   SENNACHERIB 
(68 1  B.  c.) 

From  the  Babylonian  Chronicle 

On  the  twentieth  day  of  Tebet,  Sennacherib,  King  of 
Assyria,  was  killed  by  his  son  in  a  revolt.  For  twenty- 
three  years  Sennacherib  had  ruled  Assyria.  From  the 
twentieth  day  of  Tebet  to  the  second  day  of  Adar  the  revolt 
in  Assyria  continued.  On  the  eighteenth  day  of  Sivan, 
Esarhaddon,  his  son,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne. 


ESARHADDON'S    ACCESSION    TO    THE 

THRONE,   AND  THE   BATTLE  OF 

HANIGALBAT 

I  WAS  fierce  as  a  lion,  and  my  heart  (liver)  was  en- 
raged. To  exercise  the  sovereignty  of  my  father's  house 
and  to  clothe  my  priestly  office,  to  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash, 
Bel,  Nabu  and  Nergal,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Ishtar  of  Arbela, 
I  raised  my  hands  and  they  looked  with  favour  on  my 
petition.  In  their  eternal  mercy  they  sent  me  an  oracle 
of  confidence — viz.:  "  Go,  do  not  delay;  we  will  march  at 
thy  side  and  will  subjugate  thy  enemies."     One  day,  two 


CYLINDER   A   OF  ESARH ADDON  8 1 

days,  I  did  not  wait,  the  front  of  my  army  I  did  not  look 
upon,  the  rear  I  did  not  see,  the  appointments  for  my 
yoked  horses,  the  weapons  for  my  battle  I  did  not  inspect, 
provisions  for  my  campaign  I  did  not  issue.  The  furious 
cold  of  the  month  Shebat,  the  fierceness  of  the  cold  I  did 
not  fear.  Like  a  flying  sisinnu  bird,  for  the  overthrow 
of  my  enemies,  I  opened  out  my  forces.  The  road  to 
Nineveh,  with  difficulty  and  haste,  I  travelled.  Before 
me  in' Hanigalbat,  all  of  their  splendid  warriors  seized  the 
front  of  my  expedition  and  forced  a  battle.  The  fear  of 
the  great  gods,  my  lords,  overwhelmed  them.  They  saw 
the  approach  of  my  mighty  battle  and  they  became  insane. 
Ishtar,  the  mistress  of  onslaught  and  battle,  the  lover  of 
my  priestly  office,  stood  at  my  side  and  broke  their  bows. 
She  broke  up  their  compact  line  of  battle,  and  in  their 
assembly  they  proclaimed,  "  This  is  our  king,"  By  het 
illustrious  command,  they  joined  themselves  to  my  side. 


CYLINDER  A  OF  THE  ESARHADDON 
INSCRIPTIONS 

[EsARHADDON,  King  of  Assyria,  King  of  Sumer]  and 
Akkad,  [son  of  Sennacherib],  King  of  Assyria;  [son  of 
Sargon],  King  of  Assyria;  who,  under  the  protection  of 
Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Nabu,  Marduk,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh, 
Ishtar  of  Arbela,  the  great  gods,  his  lords,  from  the  rising 
of  the  sun  to  the  setting  of  the  sun  marched  without  a  rival. 

The  conqueror  of  Sidon,  which  lies  in  the  middle  of 
the  sea,  the  overthrower  of  all  its  dwellings;  its  wall  and 
its  dwelling  (houses)  I  tore  down  and  threw  them  into 
the  sea,  and  I  destroyed  its  site.  Abdimilkuti,  its  king, 
who  had  fled  before  my  weapons  into  the  midst  of  the  sea 
like  a  fish,  from  the  midst  of  the  sea  I  drew  out  and  cut 
ofif  his  head.  His  accumulated  property,  gold,  silver,  pre- 
cious stones,  elephant  skin,  elephant  ivory,  ushu  and 
urkarinu  wood,  variegated  and  linen  clothing,  of  every  de>- 
6 


82  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

scription,  the  treasure  of  his  palace,  I  carried  away  in  great 
quantities.  His  numerous ,  men,  who  were  without  num^ 
her,  oxen,  sheep,  and  asses  I  brought  to  Assyria.  I  assem- 
bled the  kings  of  Hatti  and  of  the  sea-coast — ^all  of  them. 
In  another  place,  I  caused  the  city  to  be  built,  and  I  called 
its  name  [Kar-Ashur]ahiddin.  The  men,  the  booty  of 
my  bow,  from  the  mountains  and  the  Sea  of  the  Rising  of 
the  Sun,  I  caused  to  dwell  there;  and  I  placed  my  officer 
over  them  as  governor. 

And  Sanduarri,  king  of  the  cities  of  Kundi  and  SizU, 
a  powerful  enemy,  who  did  not  respect  my  lordship,  who 
had  forsaken  the  gods,  trusted  to  the  impassable  moun- 
tains, and  Abdimilkuti,  King  of  Sidon,  came  to  his  help. 
By  the  names  of  the  great  gods  they  swore  to  each  other, 
and  trusted  to  their  own  forces.  I  trusted  in  Ashur,  my 
lord,  and,'  like  a  bird,  from  the  midst  of  the  mountains  I 
drew  him  forth  and  cut  off  his  head.  In  order  to  show  the 
men  the  power  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  hung  the  heads  of 
Sanduarri  and  Abdimilkuti  upon  the  necks  of  their  great 
men.  With  male  singers  and  music  (?)  I  marched  into  the 
streets  of  Nineveh. 

The  despoiler  of  Arzani,  which  is  on  the  banks  of  the 
river  of  the  land  of  Egypt  *  *  *  to  Assyria  brought.  In 
the  vicinity  of  the  eastern  gate  of  Nineveh,  with  wild 
beasts,  wild  boars,  and  dogs,  I  caused  them  to  sit  in  chains. 

.  And  Teushpa  of  Gimir  an  umman-manda,  whose  resi- 
dence was  afar  off,  in  the  Hubushna  territory,  together 
with  the  whole  of  his  army,  I  ran  through  with  the 
sword. 

.  He  who  trampled  upon  the  necks  of  the  men  of  Hilakki, 
Du'ua,  the  inhabitants  of  the  mountain-ridges,  which  lie 
in  the  vicinity  of  Tabal;  who  trusted  to  their  [mighty] 
mountains;  and  from  days  of  old  had  not  been  subject  to 
any  yoke;  twenty-one  powerful  cities,  together  with  the 
smaller  cities  of  their  territory,  I  besieged,  captured,  and 
carried  away  their  spoil,  I  destroyed,  tore  down,  and 
burned  with  fire.  Upon  the  rest,  who  had  not  committed 
sin  and  crimes,  I  placed  the  heavy  yoke  of  my  lordship. 


CYLINDER   A   OF  ESARHADDON  83 

He  who  trod  down  the  land  of  Bamaki,  a  powerful 
enemy,  the  inhabitants  of  Tilashuri,  whose  name  in  the 
language  of  the  people  they  call  Mihranu  Pitanu. 

He  who  scattered  the  inhabitants  of  Minni,  the  qutu, 
the  unsubmissive;  who  subdued  the  armies  of  Ishpaka  of 
Ashguza — an  alliance  that  did  not  save  him — ^with  (his) 
sword. 

Who  drove  away  Nabii-zer-napishti-lishir,  son  of  Mar- 
dukbaliddin,  who  trusted  to  Elam,  but  did  not  save  his 
life.  Naid-Marduk,  his  brother,  in  order  to  subject  him- 
self to  me,  fled  from  Elam,  and  came  to  Nineveh,  my  lord- 
ship's city,  and  kissed  my  feet.  The  sea-land,  in  its  ex- 
tent, the  dominion  of  his  brother,  I  intrusted  to  him. 

Who  tore  away  Bit-Dakkuri  which  is  in  Kaldi,  an 
enemy  of  Babylon.  He  who  bound  Shamash-ibni,  its  king, 
who  did  not  fear  the  renown  of  the  lord  of  lords,  a  destruc- 
tive scoundrel,  who  had  taken  away  the  fields  of  the  Baby- 
lonians and  Borsippans  by  force.  Because  I  knew  the 
fear  of  Bel  and  Nabu,  I  returned  these  fields,  and  I  in- 
trusted them  to  the  Babylonians  and  Borsippans.  I  placed 
Nabu-shallim,  son  of  Balasu,  on  his  throne  and  he  was_ 
tribute  to  me. 

Adumu,  the  powerful  city  of  Aribi  [which]  Senna- 
cherib, King  of  Assyria,  [the  father],  my  begetter,  had 
captured  and  *  *  *  his  gods  had  carried  away,  to  Assyria 
had  brought;  [Haza']ilu,  King  of  Aribi,  with  his  heavy 
present,  to  Nineveh,  my  lordship's  city,  came  and  kissed 
my  feet.  He  besought  me  for  the  return  of  his  gods,  and 
I  showed  him  compassion.  I  repaired  the  injuries  of  these 
gods,  and  the  power  of  Ashtir,  my  lord,  and  the  writing  of 
my  name  I  caused  to  be  written  upon  them,  and  I  gave 
them  back.  I  appointed  Tabua,  who  was  reared  in  my 
palace,  to  sovereignty  over  them,  and  with  her  gods  I  re- 
turned her  to  her  land.  I  added  sixty-five  camels,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  former  tribute  of  my  fathers  and  imposed  it 
on  him.  Afterward,  fate  carried  Haza'ilu  away,  and  I 
placed  Yailu,  his  son,  on  his  throne.  Ten  maneh  of  gold, 
one  thousand  brilliant  stones,  fifty  camels,  one  thousand 


84  ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

gunzi  of  sweet-smelling  herbs,  in  addition  to  the  tribute 
of  his  father,  I  added  and  placed  on  him. 

Bazu,  a  district,  whose  situation  is  afar  off,  a  low  stretch 
of  land,  a  desert  country,  a  barren  place — one  hundred  and 
forty  kasbu  of  swampy  land,  thorns,  and  gazelle-mouth 
stone;  twenty  kasbu  of  snakes  and  scorpions,  which,  like 
grasshoppers,  filled  the  country;  twenty  kasbu  of  Hazu,  a 
mountain  of  sag-gil-mud  stone,  I  left  behind  me  and  I 
marched.  Where,  from  days  of  old,  no  king  before  me 
had  gone,  by  the  command  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  I  marched 
victoriously.  I  killed  eight  kings  of  that  district,  and  I 
carried  away  their  gods,  property,  possessions,  and  men 
into  Assyria.  Lale,  King  of  Yadi,  [who]  had  fled  before 
my  weapons,  heard  of  the  carrying  away  of  his  gods, 
and  he  came  to  Nineveh,  my  lordship's  city,  into  my  pres- 
ence, and  kissed  my  feet.  I  showed  him  compassion  and 
spoke  to  him  of  peace.  Upon  his  gods,  which  I  had  car- 
ried away,  I  wrote  the  power  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  and  gave 
them  back.  I  intrusted  to  him  the  district  of  Bazi,  and 
I  imposed  on  him  the  taxes  and  tribute  of  my  lordship. 

As  for  Beliqisha,  son  of  Bunani,  of  Gambul,  who,  like 
"a  fish,  had  fixed  (his)  dwelling  at  the  distance  of  twelve 
kasbu  of  land  in  the  water  and  marshes,  by  the  command 
of  Ashur,  my  lord,  terror  struck  him.  Of  his  own  accord, 
taxes  and  tribute,  large  oxen,  completely  fattened  *  *  * 
he  brought  and  kissed  my  feet;  I  showed  him  compas- 
sion, and  I  made  his  heart  confident.  I  strengthened 
Shapi-Bel,  his  stronghold,  and  himself,  together  with  his 
bow-men,  I  caused  to  go  up  into  it,  and  like  a  door  of 
Elam,  I  shut  it  up. 

As  for  Patusharra,  a  district  on  the  borders  of  the  house 
of  the  desert,  which  is  in  the  midst  of  the  far-off  Medes, 
on  the  borders  of  Bikni,  a  mountain  of  alabaster  stone,  the 
territory  of  whose  land  no  one  among  the  kings,  my 
fathers,  had  trodden,  Shidirparna,  Eparna,  its  powerful  city 
officers,  who  were  not  under  subjection  to  any  yoke,  them- 
selves with  their  men,  horses,  chariots,  oxen,  sheep,  asses, 
dromedaries,  their  heavy  spoil,  I  carried  away  to  Ass3rria. 


CYLINDER  A  OF  ESARHADDON  8$ 

Uppiz,  city-officer  of  Partakka,  Zanasana,  city-officer  of 
Partukka,  Ramatea,  city-officer  of  Urakazabarna,  Medes, 
whose  situation  is  afar  off,  who,  under  the  reign  of  the 
kings,  my  fathers,  had  not  crossed  over  the  territory  of 
Assyria  and  had  not  trodden  its  ground,  the  fear  of  the 
might  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  overwhelmed  them.  Large 
horses,  alabaster-stone,  the  choice  of  his  land,  to  Nineveh, 
my  lordship's  city,  they  brought  and  kissed  my  feet.  As 
for  the  city-officers,  faint-heartedness  (?)  struck  them;  they 
besought  my  lordship,  and  they  asked  of  me  a  treaty.  I 
sent  with  them  my  military  officers,  the  prefects  of  the 
border  of  their  land.  They  trampled  upon  and  subdued 
the  men,  the  inhabitants  of  these  cities.  The  tribute  and 
taxes  of  my  lordship  I  imposed  upon  them  regularly. 

From  the  time  that  Ashiir,  Shamash,  Bel,  and  Nabu, 
Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  had  set  me  in  power 
over  my  enemies,  and  I  had  found  the  fulness  of  my  heart, 
with  the  booty  of  my  numerous  enemies,  which,  under  the 
protection  of  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  my  hands  had 
captured,  the  temples  of  the  cities  of  Assyria  and  Akkad  I 
caused  to  be  built,  and  with  silver  and  gold  I  adorned 
them,  and  I  made  them  as  bright  as  the  day. 

In  those  days,  the  former  (?)  palace,  which  is  in  Nine- 
veh, which  the  kings,  my  forefathers,  had  caused  to  be  built 
— for  the  stowing  away  of  the  camp,  for  the  sheltering  of  the 
horses  and  bulls,  chariots,  weapons,  utensils  of  war,  and 
the  spoil  of  the  enemies,  everything  of  every  description, 
which  Ashur,  the  king  of  the  gods,  had  presented,  as  a 
royal  possession,  for  the  stalling  of  the  horses,  and  the  har- 
nessing of  the  chariots,  [that  place  had  become  too  small 
for  me,  and]  I  caused  the  men  of  the  countries,  the  booty 
of  my  bow,  to  carry  baskets  (?)  and  work-caps  (?)  and  they 
made  bricks.  That  small  palace  I  tore  down  entirely.  A 
large  piece  of  ground,  in  accordance  with  my  plan,  I  cut 
off  from  the  midst  of  the  fields,  and  added  to  it.  I  filled 
out  its  terrace  with  freestone,  a  stone  of  the  mighty  moun- 
tains. 

I  assembled  twenty-two  kings  of  the  land  of  Hatti,  of 


86  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

the  sea-coast  and  the  middle  of  the  sea.  [Cylinder  B  gfives 
the  names  of  the  kings  and  countries.  And  beyond  the 
sea.  Ba'al  of  Tyre,  Manasseh  of  Judah,  Qaushgabri  of 
Edom,  Muquri  of  Moab,  Qil-Bel  of  Gaza,  Metinti  of  Aske- 
lon,  Ikausu  of  Ekron,  Milkiashapa  of  Byblos,  Matanbaal 
of  Arvad,  Abibaal  of  Samsimuruma,  Buduil  of  Ammon, 
Ahimilki  of  Ashdod,  twelve  kings  of  the  sea-coast; 
Ekishtura  of  Edial,  Pilagura  of  Kitrusi,  Kisu  of  Sil- 
lua,  Ituandar  of  Paphos,  Eresu  of  Sillu,  Damasu  of 
Kuri,  Atmesu  of  Tamesu,  Damusi  of  Qartihadashti,  Unasa- 
gusu  of  Sidir,  Bu-gu-su  of  Nure,  ten  kings  of  Cyprus  in 
the  midst  of  the  sea,  in  all  twenty-two  kings  of  Hatti  (the 
Hittites),  etc.]  To  all  of  these  I  gave  my  commands,  and 
large  beams,  mighty  posts,  boards  of  cedar  and  cypress 
from  the  midst  of  Sirara  and  Labnana,  brilliant  colossi  and 
bull-colossi  (?),  thresholds  of  burned  brick,  of  gis-sir-gal 
and  ashnan  stone,  of  turmina  turmina-turdu  en-gi-damku 
alaldu  gi-na  hi-li-ba,  from  the  mountain-ridges,  the  place 
of  their  production,  for  the  requirements  of  my  palace, 
with  labour  and  with  difficulty  they  caused  to  be  drawn  to 
Nineveh. 

In  a  fortunate  month,  on  a  favourable  day,  upon  that 
terrace,  I  built  great  palaces  for  the  dwelling  of  my  lord- 
ship. I  caused  them  to  perform  state  (compulsory)  la- 
bour. A  palace,  whose  length  was  ninety-five  great  cubits, 
whose  breadth  was  thirty-one  great  cubits,  which,  among 
the  kings  who  went  before  me,  my  fathers,  no  one  had 
built,  I  built.  I  laid  in  rows  upon  it  mighty  beams  of 
cedar.  Doors  of  cypress-wood,  whose  odor  was  good,  I 
bound  with  a  covering  of  silver  and  copper,  and  I  hung  in 
its  gates.  Bull-divinities  and  colossi  of  stone  which,  ac- 
cording to  their  position,  turn  the  breast  of  the  enemy, 
which  protect  the  path,  render  inviolable  the  way  of  the 
king,  their  builder,  to  the  right  and  left  I  caused  to  take 
their  positions.  A  palace  of  freestone  and  cedar,  shu-te- 
mu-du-ti  (?)  for  the  renown  of  my  lordship,  artistically  I 
caused  to  be  built.  Glittering  female  colossi  of  bronze 
which  looked  sideward,  forward,  and  backward,  I  placed  in 


CYLINDER   A   OF  ESARHADDON  87 

if  on  both  sides.  Mighty  beams  of  cedar,  and  boards  I 
placed  as  the  fastening  of  their  gates.  For  the  surround- 
ing wall  of  that  palace,  a  strong  protection  of  pi-stone  and 
alabaster  I  caused  to  be  made  and  to  surround  it  like  a 
wreath  *  *  *  like  *  *  *  I  caused  to  surround  the  whole 
of  the  gates.  I  hung  doors  of  pure  silver  and  shining 
copper  in  their  midst.  The  power  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 
which  I  had  exhibited  in  hostile  countries,  by  the  work  of 
the  engravers,  I  carved  in  it.  A  large  park  like  those  of 
Haman,  in  which  every  sort  of  spices  and  trees  was  planted, 
I  placed  on  its  sides.  Its  ground-floor  I  greatly  enlarged, 
and  its  path  I  made  much  wider.  For  a  drinking-place 
for  the  horses,  within  it  I  had  a  watering-trough  con- 
structed and  arranged  after  the  manner  of  a  canal.  This 
palace,  from  its  foundation  to  its  roof,  I  erected,  caused 
to  be  completed  and  fitted  out  with  fulness.  Ekallu 
paqidat  kalama-y-i.  e.,  the  palace  guarding  everything,  I 
called  its  name.  Ashur,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  the  gods  of 
Assyria,  all  of  them,  I  invited  into  it.  Large  and  clean  sac- 
rifices I  sacrificed  before  them,  and  I  presented  my  pres- 
ents. These  gods,  in  the  steadfastness  of  their  hearts, 
looked  with  favour  on  my  kingdom.  The  great  men  and 
inhabitants  of  my  country — all  of  them — with  eating  and 
feasting,  I  made  to  sit  at  the  dedicatory  table  in  its  midst, 
and  I  caused  their  hearts  (spirits)  to  rejoice.  With  wineis 
and  cider  I  bribed  their  hearts,  and  I  poured  over  them 
the  best  oil.  By  the  command  of  Ashur,  king  of  the  gods, 
and  the  gods  of  Assyria,  all  of  them,  in  health  of  body,  joy 
of  heart,  cheerfulness  of  spirit,  abundance  of  offspring, 
within  it,  may  I  continually  dwell,  and  may  its  complete- 
ness (splendour)  be  sufficient!  On  the  beginning  of  the 
year,  in  the  first  month,  all  of  the  horses,  bulls,  asses, 
camels,  weapons,  utensils  of  war,  all  the  soldiers,  the  spoil 
of  my  enemies,  yearly,  without  fail,  within  it  may  I  store 
away!  Within  this  palace  may  the  gracious  bull-divini- 
ties and  gracious  colossi,  protecting  the  footsteps  of  my 
majesty,  causing  my  spirit  to  rejoice,  forever  show  their 
power,  may  they  not  separate  themselves  from  its  side! 


88  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

For  the  future,  among  the  kings,  my  sons,  whomso- 
ever Ashiir  and  Ishtar  call  to  be  ruler  of  land  and  people, 
at  the  time  when  this  palace  becomes  old  and  weak,  may 
he  repair  its  damage!  According  as  I  placed  the  inscrip- 
tion of  the  king,  my  begetter,  with  the  inscriptions  of  my 
name,  so  do  thou  as  I  did,  and  look  after  my  inscription, 
and  cleanse  it  with  oil,  offer  sacrifices,  with  thy  own  in- 
scriptions place  it!    Ashur  and  Ishtar  will  hear  thy  prayers. 


INSCRIPTION    OF    ESARHADDON    FROM 
THE   BLACK   STONE  (ABERDEEN) 

EsARHADDON,  king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria, 
viceroy  of  Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  the  lofty 
prince,  who  fears  Nabu  and  Marduk. 

From  the  time  that,  under  the  reign  of  a  former  king, 
in  Sumer  and  Akkad,  hostile  forces  came  to  the  front,  the 
people  who  dwelt  in  Babylon  sent  an  ultimatum  and 
planned  insurrection;  they  laid  their  hands  on  Esagila, 
the  temple  of  the  gods;  gold  and  precious  stones  they 
passed  through  as  purchase-money  to  Elam — (from  this 
time)  the  lord  of  the  gods,  Marduk,  was  enraged.  To 
overthrow  the  country  and  to  destroy  the  people  he 
formed  hostile  plans.  The  river  (canal)  Arahtu,  a  river  of 
plenty,  a  mighty  flood,  like  a  storm-flood  was  brought,  and 
he  caused  it  to  come,  against  the  city,  its  habitations,  and 
its  temples,  and  he  made  it  (the  city)  resemble  a  ruin. 
The  gods  and  the  goddesses  residing  therein  ascended  to 
heaven;  the  people  dwelling  therein  were  apportioned  to 
bonds  and  bands,  and  they  entered  into  a  state  of  slavery. 
He  had  decreed  ten  years  as  the  length  of  its  state  of 
ruin,  and  the  merciful  Marduk  was  speedily  appeased,  and 
he  drew  to  his  side  all  Babylonia  (literally  above  and  be- 
low).   In  the  eleventh  year  I  gave  orders  to  reinhabit  it. 

I,  Esarhaddon,  whom  thou  hast  chosen  from  the  num- 
ber of  my  older  brothers  to  restore  these  works,  and  over 


BLACK  STONE  OF  ESARHADDON  89 

whom  thou  hast  established  thy  good  protection,  all  of 
whose  enemies  like  a  cyclone  thou  hast  overwhelmed,  and 
all  of  whose  foes  thou  hast  destroyed,  and  the  desire  of 
whose  heart  thou  hast  caused  him  to  attain,  and  to  whom 
thou,  in  order  to  appease  the  heart  of  thy  great  divin- 
ity, to  soften  thy  spirits,  hast  handed  over  the  rule  of 
Assyria. 

At  the  beginning  of  my  dominion,  in  the  first  year  of 
my  reign,  when  I  had  taken  my  seat  with  pomp  upon  the 
royal  throne,  favourable  signs  appeared  in  the  heavens  and 
on  earth  *  *  *  About  the  doing  of  this  work,  to  the 
judgment  of  Shamash,  Ramman,  Marduk,  chief-justice  of 
the  gods,  my  lords,  I  bowed;  I  consulted  them.  Through 
the  mediation  of  a  seer,  oracles  inspiring  trust  were 
brought;  to  rebuild  Babylon,  to  renew  Esagila  they  wrote 
thereon.  In  their  true  protection  I  placed  trust,  and  I 
summoned  all  my  workmen  and  the  men  of  Kar-Duni- 
ash  to  its  whole  extent;  I  caused  them  to  carry  baskets 
(?),^  and  I  placed  (upon  them)  work-caps  (?).  I  sprinkled 
its  foundation  wall  (?)  with  fine  oil,  honey,  cream,  wine, 
wine  of  the  snow-covered  mountains.  I  placed  on  my 
own  head  a  work-cap  (?),  and  I  caused  myself  to  carry 
it  (i.  e.,  to  perform  state  work).  With  shiluru,  ivory.  Tere- 
binths, Oaks,  Palms,  *  *  *  as  many  as  to  its  yoke,  I 
caused  bricks  to  be  made.  Esagila,  the  temple  of  the 
gods,  and  its  shrines;  Babylon,  the  city  of  protection; 
Imgur-Bel,  its  inner  wall;  Nimit-Bel,  its  outer  wall,  from 
their  foundations  to  their  battlements,  I  built  anew,  I  en- 
larged them,  raised  them  higher  and  strengthened  them. 
I  repaired  the  image  of  the  great  gods  and  caused  it  to 
take  its  place  in  their  rooms  forever.  I  re-established  their 
regular  offerings,  which  had  fallen  into  disuse.  The  Baby- 
lonians, who  had  gone  into  slavery  and  who  had  been  ap- 
portioned to  bonds  and  bands,  as  Babylonians  I  reckoned 
again.     I  placed  them  anew  under  protection. 

'  I  caused  them  to  perform  state  (compulsory)  labour. 


50  ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


INSCRIPTION   OF  ESARHADDON   ON 
THE  MONOLITH   IN    BERLIN 

AsHUR,  the  father  of  the  gods,  who  loves  my  priestly 
office;  Anu,  the  strong,  the  first  in  rank,  who  proclaimed 
my  name;  Bel,  the  high  lord,  who  established  my  reign; 
Ea,  the  wise,  the  knowing,  who  decides  my  fates;  Sin- 
Nannar,  the  brilliant,  who  grants  me  favourable  signs; 
Shamash,  judge  of  heaven  and  earth,  who  defines  my 
career;  Ramman,  the  mighty,  who  makes  abundant  provi- 
sion for  my  army;  Marduk,  the  lord  of  the  Igigi  and  Anun- 
naki,  who  enlarges  my  dominion;  Ishtar,  the  mistress  of 
contest  and  battle,  who  marches  at  my  side;  the  Seven- 
hero-gods,  who  overwhelm  my  enemies;  the  great  gods, 
all  of  them,  who  decide  fates,  who  give  power  and  strength 
to  the  king,  their  favourite,  Esarhaddon,  the  great  king, 
the  powerful  king,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria, 
viceroy  of  Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  King  of 
Karduniash — all  of  them — king  of  the  kings  of  Egypt, 
Pathros,  and  Cush,  who  reverences  their  great  divinity, 
the  exalted  autocrat  of  Ashur,  [Shamash,]  Nabu  [and 
Marduk];  king  of  kings,  the  unsparing,  who  bums  the 
stubborn,  who  is  clothed  with  brilliancy,  who  does  not 
fear  battle;  the  splendid  warrior,  who  is  unsparing  in  con- 
test; the  prince,  the  all-powerful,  who  controls  the  sceptre 
of  kings;  the  mad  dog  who  avenges  his  father,  his  be- 
getter; the  king  who,  under  the  protection  of  Ashur,  Sha- 
mash, Nabu,  and  Marduk,  his  supporters,  marched  here 
and  there  with  justice,  and  accomplished  his  desires;  who 
broke  down  all  those  who  did  not  favour  him,  princes  who 
were  unsubmissive,  like  the  cane  of  the  swamp,  and  caused 
them  to  be  trodden  under  his  feet,  who  arranged  (restored) 
the  free-will  offerings  to  the  great  gods  who  [encouraged] 
the  fear  of  gods  and  goddesses.  *  *  * 

[The  text  of  lines  1-9  of  the  reverse  is  too  badly  muti- 
lated for  translation.] 


MONOLITH   OF   ESARHADDON 


91 


*  *  *  The  kings  of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world  I  trod 
under  foot,  *  *  *  the  countries,  all  of  them,  I  brought 
under  my  yoke.  *  *  *  I  imposed  on  them  tribute  and 
taxes;  who  conquered  his  enemies,  who  destroyed  his 
foes;  the  king,  Whose  path  was  a  cyclone;  because  of  his 
deeds,  the  maddened  wolf  entered  his  presence  (?),  and 
after  him  *  *  *  whose  strong  battle  was  a  flaming  sea 
of  fire  *  *  *  the  son  of  Sennacherib,  king  of  the  world. 
King  of  Assyria,  son  of  Sargon,  king  of  the  world,  King  of 
Assyria,  viceroy  of  Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad, 
of  the  ancient  royal  seed  of  Bel-ibni,  son  of  Adasi,  who 
established  the  kingdom  of  Assyria  *  *  *  of  the  city 
Ashur  *  *  *  [who  before]  Ashur,  Shamash,  Nabu,  and 
Marduk,  his  lords,  prostrated  himself.  I  am  powerful,  all- 
powerful,  exalted,  all-mighty,  strong,  important,  majestic 
in  power;  among  all  kings  I  do  not  know  a  rival;  the  dar- 
ling of  Ashur,  Nabu,  and  Marduk,  proclaimed  of  Sin,  fa- 
vourite of  Anu,  beloved  of  Queen  Ishtar,  the  goddess  of 
everything,  the  unsparing  weapon,  who  brings  to  destruc- 
tion the  land  of  the  enemy,  am  I;  the  king,  powerful  in 
contest  and  battle,  who  destroys  the  habitations  of  those 
who  are  hostile  to  him;  who  annihilates  his  enemies,  over- 
whelms his  foes,  brings  under  subjection  those  who  are 
unsubmissive  to  him;  who  holds  dominion  over  all  people, 
as  whose  fate  Ashur,  Shamash,  Nabu,  and  Marduk,  my 
exalted  lords,  whose  command  can  not  be  changed,  a 
kingdom  without  a  rival,  decreed;  into  whose  hands  Ishtar, 
the  mistress,  who  loves  my  priestly  office,  a  strong  bow,  a 
mighty  spear  bringing  destruction  to  the  hostile,  intrusted; 
the  desire  of  my  heart  she  caused  me  to  attain,  and  all 
princes  who  were  unsubmissive  she  brought  to  submission 
under  my  feet. 

At  the  time  that  Ashur,  the  great  lord — in  order  to 
show  the  people  the  mightiness  and  greatness  of  my  deeds 
— over  the  kings  of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world  strength- 
ened my  royal  rule,  and  spread  abroad  the  fame  of  my 
name,  and  placed  in  my  hand  a  mighty  sceptre  with  which 
to   overcome   my   enemies,   (then)   the   country   rebelled 


92 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


against  Assyria;  they  acted  disgracefully,  they  revolted. 
To  destroy  and  to  despoil  the  territory  of  Assyria  *  *  * 
my  people.  After  Ashur  and  the  great  gods,  my  lords, 
had  given  me  marching  orders,  distant  roads,  impassable 
mountains,  large  swamps,  desert  places,  in  the  obedience 
of  my  heart,  I  traversed  successfully.  As  for  Tarqu,  King 
of  Egypt  and  Cush,  who  was  under  the  curse  of  their  great 
divinity,  from  Ishupri  as  far  as  Memphis,  his  royal  city — 
a  march  of  fifteen  days — every  day  without  exception  I 
killed  his  warriors  in  great  number,  and  as  for  him,  five 
times  with  the  point  of  the  spear  I  struck  him  with  a 
deadly  stroke.  Memphis,  his  royal  city,  in  half  a  day,  by 
cutting  through,  cutting  into  and  scaling  (?)  I  besieged,  I 
conquered,  I  tore  down,  I  destroyed,  I  burned  with  fire, 
and  the  wife  of  his  palace,  his  palace  women,  Ushanahuru, 
his  own  son,  and  the  rest  of  his  sons,  his  daughters,  his 
property  and  possessions,  his  horses,  his  oxen,  his  sheep 
without  number,  I  carried  away  as  spoil  to  Assyria.  I  tore 
up  the  root  of  Cush  from  Egypt,^  a  single  one — even  to 
the  suppliant — I  did  not  leave  behind. 

Over  all  Egypt  I  appointed  kings,  prefects,  governors, 
grain-inspectors,  mayors,  and  secretaries.  I  instituted 
regular  offerings  to  Ashur  and  the  great  gods,  my 
lords,  for  all  time.  I  placed  on  them  the  tribute  and  taxes 
of  my  lordship,  regularly  and  without  fail.  A  tablet,  writ- 
ten in  my  name,  I  caused  to  be  made,  and  the  glory  of  the 
bravery  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  the  mighty  deeds  which  I  had 
accomplished,  under  the  protection  of  Ashur,  in  my 
marches,  and  the  victories,  the  booty  of  my  hands,  thereon 
I  caused  to  be  written,  and  for  the  (astonished)  gaze  of  all 
my  enemies  I  set  up  for  future  days. 

Whoever  removes  this  tablet  from  its  place,  or  erases 
my  name  as  written,  or  writes  his  name  or  covers  it  with 
dust,  or  throws  it  into  the  water,  or  bums  it  with  fire,  or 
places  it  where  it  can  not  be  seen,  may  Ishtar,  the  mis- 
tress of  contest  and  battle,  destroy  his  manhood  or  woman- 

•  That   is,  everything   pertaining  to  Cush  I   forcibly  removed   from 
Egypt. 


SHORT   INSCRIPTIONS   OF   ESARHADDON  53 

hood!     May  she  cause  him  to  dwell  as  a  captive  among 
his  enemies! 

May  the  future  prince  see  the  tablet,  written  in  my 
name!  may  he  read  it  aloud!  may  he  cleanse  it  with  oil! 
may  he  offer  a  sacrifice!  may  he  exalt  the  name  (fame) 
of  Ashur,  my  lord ! 


SHORT    INSCRIPTIONS  OF 
ESARHADDON 

I.    ON   A  BRONZE   LION   IN   THE  MUSEUM  AT 
CONSTANTINOPLE 

Palace  of  Esarhaddon,  king  of  the  world,  King  of 
Assyria,  the  conqueror  of  Egypt  and  Cush. 

II.    ON   A  BRICK   FROM   NEBBI   YUNUS 

Palace  of  Esarhaddon,  the  powerful  king,  king  of  the 
world.  King  of  Assyria,  son  of  Sennacherib,  King  of  As- 
syria, son  of  Sargon,  King  of  Assyria. 

IIL    ON   A   BRICK   FROM  NEBBI  YUNUS 

Palace  of  Esarhaddon,  King  of  Assyria,  son  of  Sen- 
nacherib, King  of  Assyria,  son  of  Sargon,  King  of  Assyria, 

IV.    ON   AN  ALABASTER  VASE   FROM   KOUYUNJIK 

Palace  of  Esarhaddon,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  As- 
syria, King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  King  of  Kar-Duniash. 

V.  Esarhaddon,  king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria, 
the  palace  which  is  in  the  city  Tarbigu  from  its  founda- 
tion to  its  roof  has  caused  to  be  built  anew. 

VI.  I,  Esarhaddon,  the  great  king,  the  powerful  king, 
king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria,  viceroy  of  Babylon, 
King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  the  palace,  which  is  in  the  city 


94         ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Tarbiqu,  for  a  dwelling-place  for  Ashurbanipal  constructed, 
I  brought  to  a  state  of  completion. 

VII.  I,  Esarhaddon,  the  g^eat  king,  the  powerful  king, 
king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria,  viceroy  of  Babylon, 
King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  king  of  the  kings  of  Egypt,  of 
Pathros,  and  Cush,  the  palace,  which  is  in  the  city  Tarbiqu, 
for  a  dwelling-place  for  Ashurbanipal,  the  prince  of  the 
harem,  the  son  of  my  heart,  constructed,  I  brought  to  a 
state  of  completion. 

VIII.  For  Marduk,  his  lord  Esarhaddon,  King  of  As- 
syria, King  of  Babylon,  caused  the  burned  brick  of  Esagila 
and  Etemenanki  to  be  made  anew. 

IX.  Palace  of  Esarhaddon,  the  great  king,  the  power- 
ful king,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria,  viceroy  of 
Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  who  built  the  Temple 
of  Ashur,  rebuilt  Esagila  and  Babylon,  repaired  the  image 
of  the  great  gods.  King  of  Egypt,  who  bound  (as  a  captive) 
the  King  of  Meluhha,  king  of  the  four  quarters  of  the 
world,  son  of  Sennacherib,  king  of  the  world.  King  of 
Assyria,  son  of  Sargon,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria. 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL 
(668-626  B.  c.) 

From  the  Rassam  Cylinder 

I  AM  Ashurbanipal,  the  offspring  of  Ashur  and  Beltis, 
the  great  crown-prince  of  the  harem,  whom  Ashur  and 
Sin,  lord  of  the  moon's  disk,  named  for  kingship  in  the 
distant  past,  and  whom  they  formed  in  his  mother's  womb 
for  lordship  over  Assyria,  and  whom  Shamash,  Ramman, 
and  Ishtar,  in  accordance  with  their  unchanging  decisions 
have  commanded  to  exercise  sovereignty.  Esarhaddon, 
King  of  Assyria,  the  father  who  begat  me,  honoured  the 


ANNALS  OF   ASHURBANIPAL 


95 


command  of  Ashur  and  Beltis,  the  gods  who  supported 
him,  who  commanded  him  that  I  should  exercise  sover- 
eignty. In  the  month  of  lyyar,  the  month  of  Ea,  lord  of 
mankind,  on  the  twelfth  day,  an  auspicious  day,  at  the  feast 
of  Gula,  in  order  to  carry  out  the  exalted  command  which 
Ashur,  Beltis,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar 
of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuru,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib, 
Nergal,  and  Nusku  had  issued,  he  (i.  e.,  Esarhaddon)  as- 
sembled the  people  of  Assyria,  both  great  and  small,  from 
the  Upper  Sea  even  to  the  Lower  Sea.  In  order  to  confirm 
me  in  my  position  as  crown-prince  and  in  the  exercise  of 
the  sovereignty  of  Assyria  later  on,  he  made  them  swear 
allegiance  by  the  gods  and  made  the  league  firm. 

I  entered  with  joy  and  rejoicing  into  the  harem,  the 
artistic  place,  the  headquarters  of  royalty,  wherein  Sen- 
nacherib, my  grandfather,  had  exercised  authority  as 
crown-prince  and  as  king;  wherein  Esarhaddon,  my 
father,  was  born,  and  grew  up,  and  exercised  lordship  over 
Assyria,  and  ruled  over  all  princes,  and  increased  the  family, 
and  gathered  together  kinsmen  and  relatives;  and  I, 
Ashurbanipal,  therein  acquired  the  wisdom  of  Nabu, 
learned  all  the  knowledge  of  writing  of  all  the  scribes,  as 
many  as  there  were,  and  learned  how  to  shoot  with  the 
bow,  to  ride  on  horses  and  in  chariots  and  to  hold  the 
reins.  By  the  command  of  the  great  gods,  whose  names 
I  called  upon,  whose  glory  I  proclaimed,  and  who  com- 
manded that  I  should  exercise  sovereignty,  and  intrusted 
to  me  the  restoration  of  their  shrines,  while  in  my  stead 
they  met  my  enemies,  and  overthrew  my  adversaries,  I 
am  a  warlike  man,  the  favourite  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  a 
man  of  royal  descent. 

From  the  time  that  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman, 
Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar 
of  Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku  graciously  established 
me  upon  the  throne  of  my  father,  Ramman  has  let  loose 
his  showers,  and  Ea  has  opened  up  his  springs;  the  grain 
has  grown  to  a  height  of  five  yards,  the  ears  have  been 
five  sixths  of  a  yard  long,  the  produce  of  the  land — the 


g6         ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

increase  of  Nisaba — has  been  abundant,  the  land  has  con- 
stantly yielded  heavily,  the  fruit  trees  have  borne  fruit 
richly,  and  the  cattle  have  done  well  in  bearing.  During 
my  reign  plenty  abounded;  during  my  years  abundance 
prevailed. 

In  my  first  campaign  *  I  marched  to  Makan  and 
Meluhha.  Tirhaka,  King  of  Egypt  and  Ethiopia,  whose 
defeat  Esarhaddon,  my  father,  had  brought  about,  and 
whose  land  he  had  taken  possession  of — he,  Tirhaka,  for- 
got the  power  of  Ashur,  Ishtar,  and  the  great  gods,  my 
lords,  and  trusted  in  his  own  forces.  He  marched  against 
the  kings,  the  prefects,  whom  my  father  had  appointed  in 
Egypt,  in  order  to  slay  and  plunder  and  to  take  Egypt; 
against  them  he  went  in  and  settled  in  Memphis,  a  city 
which  my  father  had  conquered  and  added  to  the  territory 
of  Assyria.  A  swift  messenger  came  to  Nineveh  and 
brought  me  the  tidings.  My  heart  raged  at  these  deeds, 
and  my  feelings  were  wrought  up.  I  lifted  my  hands  and 
prayed  to  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  of  Assyria.  I  mustered  my 
splendid  troops  which  Ashur  and  Ishtar  had  intrusted  to 
me,  and  I  ordered  the  march  to  Egypt  and  Ethiopia. 

In  the  course  of  my  campaign  *  twenty-two  kings  from 
the  sea-coast,  the  islands  and  the  inland,  who  were  sub- 

'  For  the  date  of  the  Egyptian  campaigns,  compare  the  following 
letter : 

To  the  king  of  the  countries,  my  lord,  (from)  thy  servant  Kudurru. 
May  Ashur,  Shamash,  and  Marduk,  bless  the  king,  my  lord !  After  the 
king,  my  lord,  went  to  Egypt,  in  the  month  Tammuz  an  eclipse  occurred. 

A  variant  gives  a  more  detailed  account  of  Esarhaddon's  conquest  of 
Egypt : 

Esarhaddon,  King  of  Assyria,  my  father,  had  marched  and  entered 
therein.  He  brought  about  the  defeat  of  Tirhaka,  King  of  Ethiopia,  and 
shattered  his  might.  He  conquered  Egypt  and  Ethiopia  and  carried  away 
thence  incalculable  booty.  He  took  possession  of  that  land  throughout 
its  extent  and  added  it  to  the  territory  of  Assyria.  He  changed  the  for- 
mer names  of  its  cities  and  named  them  afresh.  He  appointed  his  serv- 
ants therein  as  kings  and  prefects,  and  he  established  the  annual  tribute 
and  taxes  of  his  lordship  upon  them. 

*  A  parallel  passage  gives  the  names  of  the  twenty-two  kings  spoken 
of  above : 

Ba'al,  King  of  Tyre  ;  Manasseh,  King  of  Judah  ;  QaUshgabri,  King  of 
Edom ;  Mu9uri,  King  of  Moab ;  Qil-Ba'al,  King  of  Gaza ;  Mitinti,  King 


ANNALS  OF   ASHURBANIPAL 


97 


ordinate  to  me,  brought  their  heavy  tribute  into  my  pres- 
ence and  kissed  my  feet.  Those  kings,  together  with  their 
troops  and  their  ships,  I  put  in  motion  by  land  and  water 
along  with  my  troops.  I  marched  in  haste  to  the  help 
and  support  of  the  kings  and  prefects  who  were  in  Egyp^, 
and  were  subject  to  me,  and  I  arrived  at  Karbaniti. 

Tirhaka,  King  of  Egypt  and  Ethiopia,  heard  in  Mem- 
phis of  the  progress  of  my  campaign,  and  summoned  his 
warriors  to  prepare  battle,  weapons,  and  war  in  my  front. 
Under  the  protection  of  Ashur,  Bel,  and  Nabu,  the  great 
gods,  my  lords,  who  walked  at  my  side,  in  battle  upon 
the  wide  field  I  inflicted  defeat  upon  his  forces.  Tirhaka 
heard  in  Memphis  of  the  overthrow  of  his  forces.  The 
brilliancy  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar  overwhelmed  him,  and  he 
lost  control  of  himself.  The  splendour  of  my  kingship, 
wherewith  the  gods  of  heaven  and  earth  have  adorned  me, 
fell  upon  him,  and  he  abandoned  Memphis  and  fled  into 
Thebes  in  order  to  save  his  life.  I  captured  that  city, 
brought  my  forces  into  it,  and  settled  them  therein. 
Necho,  King  of  Memphis  and  Sais;  Sharruludari,  King  of 
^inu;  Pishanhuru,  King  of  Nathu;  Pakruru,  King  of 
Pishaptu;  Bukkunannipi,  King  of  Athribis;  Nahke,  King 
of  Hininshi;  Putubishti,  King  of  Tanis;  Unamunu,  King 
of  Nathu;  Harsiaeshu,  King  of  Zabnuti;  Buaima,  King  of 
Bindidi;  Susinqu,  King  of  Bushiru;  Tabnahti,  King  of 
Bunubu;  Bukkunannipi,  King  of  Ahni;  Iptihardishu, 
King  of  Pihattihurunpiki;  Nahtihuruansini,  King  of 
Pishabdia;  Bukurninip,  King  of  Pahnuti;  Qiha,  King  of 
Shiautu;  Lamentu,  King  of  Himuni;  Ishpimatu,  King  of 
Taini;  and  Mantimeanhi,  King  of  Thebes — ^these  kings, 
governors,  and  prefects,  whom  my  father  had  appointed  in 
Egypt,  and  who  had  fled  from  their  posts  before  the  ad- 

of  Askelon ;  Ikalishu,  King  of  Ekron ;  Melkiashapa,  King  of  Gublu ; 
Yakinlu,  King  of  Arwada  ;  Abiba'al,  King  of  Samsimuruna  ;  Amminadbi, 
King  of  Beth-Ammon  ;  Ahimilki,  King  of  Ashdod ;  Ekishtura,  King  of 
Edial ;  Pilagura,  King  of  Kitrusu  ;  Kisu,  King  of  Silua  ;  Ituandar,  King 
of  Pappa  ;  Eresu,  King  of  Sillu  ;  Damasu,  King  of  Kuri ;  Adraesu,  King 
of  Tamesu  ;  Damusu,  King  of  Qartihadastu  ;  Unasagusu,  King  of  Sidir  ; 
BU9USU,  King  of  Nuri — in  all,  twenty-two  kings  of  the  sea-coast. 

7 


98  ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

vance  of  Tirhaka  and  filled  the  open  field,  I  led  back  and 
I  restored  them  to  their  appointments  in  their  stations.  I 
again  took  possession  of  Egypt  and  Ethiopia,  which  my 
father  had  conquered.  I  made  the  garrisons  stronger  than 
before,  and  made  the  bonds  firm.  I  returned  safely  to 
Nineveh  with  much  plunder  and  heavy  spoils. 

Afterward  those  kings,  as  many  as  I  had  appointed, 
•violated  their  covenants  with  me,  disregarded  the  oath 
sworn  by  the  great  gods,  forgot  the  favour  which  I  had 
shown  to  them,  and  their  hearts  devised  evil  and  they  gave 
vent  to  rebellious  utterances  and  formed  treacherous  (?) 
plans  among  themselves,  saying,  "  If  they  drive  Tirhaka 
out  of  Egypt,  how  then  can  we  remain?  "  They  sent  their 
messengers  to  Tirhaka,  King  of  Ethiopia,  to  make  a  com- 
pact and  a  league,  saying:  "  Let  a  league  be  established  be- 
tween us  and  let  us  be  a  help  to  each  other.  If  we  divide 
the  country  among  ourselves,  then  there  shall  not  be  an- 
other lord  between  us."  They  devised  an  evil  plot  against 
the  troops  of  Assyria,  the  power  of  my  lordship,  which 
I  had  stationed  there  in  accordance  with  their  league. 

My  military  governors  heard  of  these  things.  They 
intercepted  their  messengers  together  with  their  de- 
spatches, and  learned  their  rebellious  deeds.  They  seized 
these  kings  and  bound  them  hand  and  foot  in  bonds  of 
■  iron  and  fetters  of  iron.  The  oath  by  Ashur,  king  of  the 
gods,  conquered  them  and  I  avenged  myself  upon  those 
'  who  had  violated  the  covenant  sworn  to  by  the  great  gods, 
for  the  kindness  and  the  favour  which  I  had  shown  them. 

The  inhabitants  of  Sais  also,  and  Mendes,  and  Tanis, 
and  the  rest  of  the  cities,  as  many  as  had  sided  with  them 
and  plotted  evil,  they  (i.e.,  the  generals)  destroyed  with 
weapons,  both  small  and  great,  and  left  not  a  man  in  them. 
They  hung  their  corpses  on  gibbets,  stripped  off  their 
skins,  and  therewith  covered  the  wall  of  the  city.  Those 
kings  who  had  plotted  evil  against  the  forces  of  Assyria 
they  brought  alive  to  Nineveh  into  my  presence.  I  showed 
mercy  to  Necho  alone  from  among  them,  and  I  let  him 
live.     I  made  the  covenant  stricter  than  before,  and  rati- 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL 


99 


fied  it  with  him.  I  clothed  him  with  party-coloured  rai- 
ment; I  put  a  chain  of  gold  upon  him  as  the  insignia  of 
his  sovereignty;  I  encircled  his  fingers  with  rings  of  gold; 
I  gave  him  for  his  girdle  an  iron  dagger  overlaid  with  gold, 
on  which  I  had  written  my  name;  and  I  presented  him 
with  chariots  and  with  horses  and  mules  for  the  convey- 
ance of  his  lordship.  I  sent  my  military  officer  and  pre- 
fects with  him  according  to  his  agreement.  I  returned 
him  to  his  post  in  Sals,  where  my  father  had  appointed  him 
to  sovereignty,  and  I  appointed  Nabushezibanni,  his  son, 
over  the  city  Athribis.  I  showed  him  more  kindness  and 
favour  than  my  father  had  shown  him. 

The  terrible  might  of  the  weapons  of  Ashur,  my  lord, 
overwhelmed  Tirhaka  where  he  had  fled,  and  he  went  to 
his  black  fate  (i.  e.,  to  death).  Afterward  Urdamani,  son 
of  Shabako,  took  his  seat  upon  his  royal  throne,  made 
Thebes  and  On  his  strongholds,  and  collected  his  forces. 
He  set  his  battle  in  motion  to  fight  with  my  troops,  men  of 
Assyria,  which  were  in  Memphis.  He  shut  those  men  in 
and  cut  ofif  their  escape.  A  swift  messenger  came  to  Nine- 
veh and  informed  me. 

In  my  second  campaign  I  directed  the  march  to  Egypt 
and  Ethiopia.  Urdamani  heard  of  the  approach  of  my 
campaign  and  when  I  trod  upon  the  border  of  Egypt  hfe 
abandoned  Memphis  and  fled  into  Thebes  in  order  to  save 
his  life.  The  kings,  governors,  and  prefects  whom  I  had 
established  in  Egypt  came  into  my  presence  and  kissed 
my  feet.  I  took  up  the  march  after  Urdamani  ^  and  came 
to  Thebes,  his  fortress.  He  saw  the  advance  of  my  mighty 
battle-array,  abandoned  Thebes,  and  fled  to  Kipkip.  That 
entire  city,  under  the  protection  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  my 
hands  captured. 

(I  seized)  silver,  gold,  precious  stones,  the  contents  of 
his   palace — ^all  that  there  was:   party-coloured   raiment, 

■  A  parallel  account  of  the  flight  and  pursuit  of  Urdamani  reads  : 
Urdamani  fled  alone  and  entered  into  Thebes,  his  royal  city.     For  a 
journey  of  one  month  and  ten  days  they  marched  after  him  by  difScult 
roads  as  far  as  Thebes.     They  conquered  that  city  throughout  its  extent 
and  overthrew  it  like  a  whirlwind. 


lOO        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

cloth,  great  horses,  aiid  people,  male  and  female.  Two 
tall  obelisks  made  of  bright  zahalu,  whose  weight  was 
twenty-five  hundred  talents,  which  stood  before  the  gate 
of  the  temple,  I  removed  from  their  place,  and  took  to 
Assyria.  Heavy  spoils  without  number  I  carried  off  from 
Thebes.  Over  Egypt  and  Ethiopia  I  made  my  weapons 
rage,  and  established  my  might.  With  full  hands  I  re- 
turned in  safety  to  Nineveh,  my  capital. 

In  my  third  campaign  I  marched  against  Ba'al,  King  of 
Tyre,  who  dwelt  in  the  midst  of  the  sea;  who  had  dis- 
regarded my  royal  command  and  had  not  listened  to  the 
words  of  my  lips.  I  constructed  bulwarks  against  him, 
and  I  seized  his  approaches  on  sea  and  land.^  I  beset 
their  lives,  brought  them  into  dire  straits,  and  made  them 
submit  to  my  yoke.  A  daughter,  sprung  from  his  own 
body,  and  his  brother's  daughters  he  brought  to  me  to 
serve  as  concubines.  At  the  same  time  he  caused  Yahim- 
ilki,  his  son,  who  had  never  before  crossed  the  sea,  to  be 
brought  to  me  to  be  my  servant.  I  received  his  daughter 
and  his  brother's  daughters  from  him  with  rich  dowry; 
but  I  showed  him  mercy  and  gave  back  to  him  the  son 
sprung  from  his  own  body.^ 

Yakinlu,  King  of  Arwad,  who  dwelt  in  the  midst  of 
the  sea,  who  had  not  been  subject  to  the  kings,  my  fathers, 
submitted  himself  to  my  yoke,  brought  his  daughter  with 
a  large  dowry  to  Nineveh  to  be  my  concubine,  and  kissed 
my  feet. 

•  A  parallel  passage  inserts  here : 

I  hemmed  in  his  way  ;  food  and  drink  for  the  support  of  their  lives  I 
made  scarce  in  their  mouths ;  and  I  surrounded  them  with  a  strong  in- 
vestment from  which  there  was  no  escape. 

*  A  parallel  passage  reads  : 

I  gave  back  and  showed  him  mercy.  I  broke  through  the  siege-walls 
which  I  had  constructed  against  Ba'al,  King  of  Tyre,  and  I  opened  up 
his  approaches  on  sea  and  land,  all  that  1  had  seized.  I  received  heavy 
tribute  from  him  and  I  returned  in  safety  to  Nineveh,  the  city  of  my  lord- 
ship. The  princes  (dwelling)  in  the  midst  of  the  sea  and  the  king's  dwell- 
ing on  the  lofty  mountains  saw  the  might  of  these  deeds  of  mine,  and 
they  feared  my  lordship.  Yakinlu,  King  of  Arwad,  and  Mukallu,  King 
of  Tabal,  who  had  not  submitted  to  the  kings,  my  fathers,  submitted  to 
my  yoke. 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL  loi 

Mukallu,  King  of  Tabal,*  who  had  devised  hostility 
against  the  kings,  my  fathers,  brought  a  daughter,  sprung 
from  his  own  body,  with  a  rich  portion  to  Nineveh  to  be 
my  concubine,  and  kissed  my  feet.  Upon  Mukallu  I  laid 
annual  tribute  of  large  horses. 

Sandasarme,  the  Cilician,  who  had  not  been  subject  to 
the  kings,  my  fathers,  and  had  not  borne  their  yoke,  brought 
a  daughter,  sprung  from  his  own  body,  with  a  large  dowry 
to  Nineveh  to  be  my  concubine,  and  kissed  my  feet. 

After  I  had  overthrown  the  land  of  Yakinlu,  King  of 
Arwad,  Aziba'al,  Abiba'al,  Aduniba'al,  Sapadiba'al,  Budi- 
ba'al,  Ba'aljashubu,  Ba'alhanunu,  Ba'almaluku,  Abimilki, 
and  Ahimilki,  the  sons  of  Yakinlu,  who  dwelt  in  the  midst  of 
the  sea,  rose  up  from  the  midst  of  the  sea,  and  came  with 
their  heavy  presents,  and  kissed  my  feet.  I  looked  with 
pleasure  upon  Aziba'al,  and  established  him  as  king  over 
Arwad.  Abiba'al,  Aduniba'al,  Sapadiba'al,  Budiba'al,  Ba'al- 
jashubu, Ba'alhanunu,  Ba'almaluku,  Abimilki,  and  Ahimilki 
I  clothed  in  party-coloured  raiment,  and  encircled  their 
fingers  with  gold  rings,  and  made  them  stand  before  me. 

Ashur,  the  god,  my  creator,  revealed  my  name  in  a 
dream  to  Gyges,^  King  of  Lydia,  a  region  which  is  across 

'  A  parallel  passage  reads : 

As  for  Mukallu,  King  of  [  ],  who  dwelt  in  the  mountains  and 

impassable  hills,  who  had  sent  weapons  against  the  kings,  my  fathers, 
and  had  planned  hostility — in  his  own  land  terror  overcame  him  and  the 
fear  of  my  sovereignty  overwhelmed  him,  and,  without  making  an  attack 
with  weapons  and  war,  he  sent  to  Nineveh  and  besought  my  lordship. 
Large  horses  I  required  of  him  as  tribute — the  gift  of  his  country.  Ikkilu, 
King  of  Arwad,  who  dwelt  in  the  wide  sea,  who  had  fixed  his  dwelling 
like  a  fish  in  immeasurable  waters,  *  *  *  mighty  floods,  who  had  pre- 
sumptuously trusted  to  the  raging  sea,  and  had  not  submitted  to  my  yoke, 
accepted  my  lordship,  and  bowed  himself  to  become  my  servant  and 
drew  my  yoke.  I  laid  upon  him  yearly  tribute  of  gold,  violet-purple 
wool,  red-purple  wool,  fish,  and  birds. 

'  A  parallel  passage  reads  : 

He  came  (?)  to  the  border  of  my  land,  to  the  people  of  my  land.  They 
said,  "  Who  art  thou,  O  stranger,  into  whose  land  no  rider  has  ever  made 
his  way?"  They  brought  him  to  Nineveh,  the  city  of  my  lordship,  *  *  * 
into  my  presence.  Of  the  languages  of  the  east  and  of  the  west,  which 
Ashur  had  committed  to  my  hands,  there  was  none  that  was  master  of 
his  language,  and  no  one  had  heard  his  language.  *  *  *  From  the  border 
of  the  land  *  *  *  with  him  he  brought  *  *  *. 


102        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

the  sea,  a  far-off  place,  of  whose  name  the  kings,  my 
fathers,  had  heard  no  mention,  saying,  "  Lay  hold  of  the 
feet  of  Ashurbanipal,  King  of  Assyria,  and  through  the 
influence  of  his  name  conquer  thy  enemies."  On  the 
very  day  on  which  he  saw  this  vision  he  sent  his  messenger 
to  ask  after  my  welfare.  This  vision  which  he  had  seen 
he  sent  by  his  messenger  and  repeated  to  me.*  From  the 
very  day  on  which  he  laid  hold  of  my  royal  feet  he  con- 
quered the  Cimmerians,  who  had  been  oppressing  the 
people  of  his  land,  and  had  not  feared  the  kings,  my 
fathers,  nor  even  laid  hold  of  my  royal  feet.  Under  the 
protection  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  the  gods,  my  lords,  from 
among  the  governors  of  the  Cimmerians  whom  he  had 
conquered,  two  he  bound  in  bonds,  with  chains  and  fet- 
ters of  iron,  and  had  them  brought  into  my  presence  to- 
gether with  a  heavy  gift  from  himself.  (However)  he 
discontinued  his  messenger  whom  he  had  continually  sent 
to  ask  after  my  welfare.  Because  he  did  not  keep  the  com- 
mand of  Ashur,  my  creator,  he  trusted  in  his  own  strengfth, 
while  his  heart  became  scornful,  and  he  sent  his  forces  to 
an  alliance  with  Psammetichus,  King  of  Egypt,  who  had 
thrown  .off  the  yoke  of  my  lordship.  I  heard  of  it  and 
prayed  to  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  as  follows:  "  May  his  corpse 
be  cast  before  his  enemies,  and  may  they  carry  away  his 
bones! "  Just  as  I  had  prayed  to  Ashur  it  was  fulfilled; 
before  his  enemies  his  corpse  was  cast,  and  they  carried 
off  his  bones.  The  Cimmerians,  whom  through  my  name 
he  had  trodden  under  foot,  advanced  and  raided  his  whole 
land.  After  him  his  son  took  his  seat  upon  his  throne. 
Through  his  messenger  he  sent  me  tidings  of  the  disas- 

'  A  parallel  account  adds  at  this  point : 

The  people  who  dwelt  in  Kirbit,  which  is  situated  in  Halehasta, 
trusted  to  their  inaccessible  mountains,  and  did  not  fear  the  lordship  of 
Assyria.  Tandai,  their  governor,  who  had  not  submitted  to  the  yoke  of 
the  kings,  my  fathers,  constantly  plundered  the  land  of  Yamutbala  and 
laid  it  in  ruins.  On  account  of  these  deeds,  the  people  of  Dur-ilu  sent  to 
me  and  besought  my  lordship.  I  sent  my  military  governors  and  my 
prefects  against  them  ;  they  conquered  Kirbit  and  carried  away  its  people 
as  spoil.  I  uprooted  the  people  of  those  towns  which  my  hands  had  con- 
quered and  I  made  them  dwell  in  Egypt. 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL 


103 


trous  calamity  which,  in  answer  to  niy  prayer,  the  gods — 
my  supporters — had  brought  upon  his  father,  who  begat 
him,  and  he  laid  hold  of  my  royal  feet,  saying:  "  A  king 
upon  whom  the  god  looks  with  favour  art  thou ;  my  father 
thou  didst  curse  and  calamity  befell  him.  But  as  for  me — a 
slave  who  fears  thee — bless  me  and  I  will  be  tributary  to 
thee." 

In  my  fourth  campaign  I  mustered  my  troops  and 
directed  the  march  against  Ahsheri,  King  of  Mannai.  By 
the  command  of  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel, 
Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku,  I  en- 
tered the  land  of  Mannai  and  marched  through  it  victori- 
ously. Its  cities,  great  and  small,  which  were  without 
number,  as  far  as  Izirtu,  I  captured,  I  destroyed,  I  devas- 
tated, I  burned  with  fire.  I  brought  forth  people,  horses, 
asses,  cattle,  and  sheep  from  within  those  cities,  and 
counted  them  as  spoil.*  Ahsheri  heard  of  the  progress  of 
my  campaign  and  abandoned  Izirtu,  his  royal  city.     He 

'  A  parallel  passage  reads  as  follows  : 

Ahsheri  heard  of  the  progress  of  my  campaign  and  despatched  his 
troops.  In  the  course  of  the  night  they  advanced  in  a  cunning  manner 
in  order  to  offer  battle  and  fight  against  ray  troops.  My  warriors  fought 
with  them  and  inflicted  defeat  upon  them.  For  a  distance  of  three  double 
leagues  of  ground  they  filled  the  broad  plain  with  their  bodies.  By  the 
command  of  Ashur,  Sin,  and  Shamash,  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  who  sup- 
ported me,  I  entered  into  Mannai  and  marched  through  it  victoriously.  In 
the  course  of  my  campaign  I  conquered  Aiusiash,  a  fortress,  Pashatgu  (?), 
Pusutu,  Ashdiash,  Urkiamun,  Uppish,  Sihua,  Naziniri — eight  strong 
cities  and  also  little  ones  without  number  as  far  as  Izirtu ;  I  destroyed, 
devastated,  and  burned  them  with  fire.  I  brought  forth  men,  horses, 
asses,  cattle,  and  sheep  from  within  those  cities  and  counted  them  as  spoil. 

Ahsheri  heard  of  the  progress  of  my  campaign  and  abandoned  Izirtu, 
his  royal  city,  and  fied  to  Atrana,  his  fortress,  and  took  refuge.  I  sur- 
rounded Izirtu,  Urmeate,  and  Uzbia,  his  strongholds.  I  shut  in  the 
inhabitants  of  those  cities,  straitened  their  existence,  and  brought  them 
into  distress.  That  district  I  conquered,  I  destroyed,  I  devastated,  and 
burned  with  fire.  I  laid  it  waste  for  a  distance  of  fifteen  days'  march  and 
poured  out  disaster  upon  it.  In  the  course  of  my  campaign  I  conquered 
the  cities  in  the  vicinity  of  Padiri,  which  the  Mannai  had  taken  away 
during  the  reign  of  the  kings,  my  fathers,  and  had  joined  to  themselves  ; 
and  I  burned  them  with  fire  and  carried  away  their  spoil.  I  added  those 
cities  to  the  territory  of  Assyria.  I  swept  over  the  district  of  Arsianish, 
which  is  between  Aiqanani,  which  is  in  Harsishadi,  which  is  at  the  top  of 
Kumurdai,  which  is  in  Mannai,  and  I  burned  it  with  fire.     I  killed  Raidi- 


104        ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

fled  to  Ishtatti,  a  city  in  which  he  trusted,  and  took  refuge 
there.  I  conquered  that  region,  laid  it  waste  for  a  dis- 
tance of  fifteen  days'  march,  and  poured  disaster  upon  it. 
As  for  Ahsheri,  who  did  not  fear  my  lordship — ^in  accord- 
ance with  the  word  of  Ishtar  who  dwells  in  Arbela,  who 
had  said  from  the  beginning,  "  I  will  bring  about  the  death 
of  Ahsheri,  King  of  Mannai,  according  as  I  have  said,"  she 
delivered  him  into  the  hands  of  his  servants,  and  the  people 
of  his  land  made  a  revolt  against  him.  On  the  street  of 
his  city  they  cast  his  corpse  and  left  his  body  lie.  With 
my  weapons  I  struck  down  his  brother,  his  family,  and  the 
members  of  his  father's  house.  Afterward  I  placed  Ualli, 
his  son,  upon  his  throne.  He  saw  the  might  of  Ashur, 
Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh, 
Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and 
Nusku,  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  and  he  submitted  to  my 
yoke.  In  order  to  retain  his  life  he  confessed  his  sin  and 
besought  my  lordship.  He  sent  Irisinni,  a  son  whom  he 
had  begotten,  to  Nineveh,  and  kissed  my  feet.  I  showed 
him  mercy  and  sent  my  messenger  with  greetings  of  peace 
to  him.  He  sent  a  daughter,  sprung  from  his  own  body, 
to  Nineveh  to  be  my  concubine.  They  brought  to  me 
his  former  tribute,  which  he  had  stopped  during  the  reigns 
of  the  kings,  my  fathers.  I  added  thirty  horses  to  his 
former  tribute,  and  laid  it  upon  him.* 

shadi,  the  commander  of  their  fortresses,  and  I  carried  ofif  his  spoil.  I 
conquered  the  district  of  Erishteana,  swept  over  its  cities,  burned  it  with 
fire,  and  carried  off  its  spoil.  In  the  onset  of  my  battle  I  laid  waste  his 
district  and  diminished  his  whole  country.  With  much  plunder  and  a 
heavy  present  I  returned  in  safety  and  trod  the  border  of  Assyria.  *  *  » 
-rua,  Sharruiqbi,  Gusune,  and  •  *  •  -rute — towns  adjacent  to  Assyria, 
which  the  Mannai  had  taken  away  in  the  reigns  of  the  kings,  my  fathers 
— those  habitations  I  conquered.  I  uprooted  the  Mannai  from  within 
them.  Horses  and  weapons,  their  tools  of  war,  I  carried  away  to  Assyria. 
I  took  those  cities  in  possession  again  and  added  them  to  the  territory  of 
Assyria.  As  for  Ahsheri,  who  did  not  fear  my  lordship — *  *  *  Ishtar 
delivered  him  into  the  hands  of  his  subjects  ;  the  people  of  his  land  made 
a  revolt  against  him,  etc. 

'  Another  account  inserts  the  following  additional  narrative  here  be- 
fore the  campaign  against  Teumman  : 

In  those  days  I  conquered  seventy-five  strong  cities  of  Birizhadra,  a 
city  ruler  of  the  Medes,  and  Sarati  and  Parihia,  sons  of  Gagi,  city  rulers 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL  loj 

In  my  fifth  campaign  I  directed  the  march  to  Elam. 
By  the  command  of  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel, 
Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of 
Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku,  in  the  month  Elul,  the 

of  the  land  of  Sahi,  who  had  cast  off  the  yoke  of  my  lordship,  and  I  carried 
away  their  spoil.  Them  themselves  I  seized  alive  with  my  own  hands 
and  brought  to  Nineveh,  the  city  of  my  lordship. 

As  for  Andaria,  the  prefect  of  Lubdi,  who  had  marched  and  advanced 
by  night  to  capture  Ubbume  and  Kullimeri — the  inhabitants  of  Kulli- 
meri,  servants  subject  to  me,  inflicted  great  slaughter  upon  him  in  the 
night ;  they  let  not  one  escape.  They  cut  off  the  head  of  Andaria  and 
brought  it  to  Nineveh  into  my  presence. 

In  my  sixth  campaign  I  went  against  Urtaku,  King  of  Elam,  who  had 
not  considered  the  good  which  my  father  had  done  him  and  had  not  kept 
friendship  (with  me).  At  a  time  when  famine  prevailed  and  hunger 
existed  in  Elam,  I  had  had  corn  taken  to  him  for  the  sustenance  of  the 
people's  lives,  and  I  had  seized  his  hand  (i.  e.,  supported  him).  His  peo- 
ple who  had  fled  from  before  the  famine  and  had  settled  in  Assyria  until 
rain  should  fall  in  his  land  and  there  should  be  a  harvest — those  people 
who  had  sustained  their  lives  in  my  land  I  had  had  taken  to  him  and 
*  *  *  [next  fifteen  lines  badly  broken]. 

I  despatched  and  sent  my  messenger.  He  went  and  returned  and 
related  to  me  repeatedly  as  follows :  "  The  EUamite  covers  Akkad  like 
a  swarm  of  grasshoppers  *  *  * ;  against  Babylon  he  pitches  his  camp 
and  lays  siege."  To  the  help  of  Bel  and  Nabu,  my  gods  whose  duty  I 
reverenced,  I  mustered  my  men  of  war  and  took  the  way.  He  heard  of 
the  approach  of  my  campaign  and  terror  overwhelmed  him,  and  he  turned 
back  to  his  own  land.  I  took  (the  way)  after  him,  brought  about  his 
defeat,  and  drove  him  to  the  border  of  his  own  land.  Urtaki,  King  of 
Elam,  who  had  not  kept  friendship  (with  me),  in  a  day  not  destined 
for  him,  death  *  *  * ;  in  pain  he  perished  *  *  *.  In  the  ground  of  life 
his  feet  *  *  *.  In  this  year  he  lost(?)  his  life.  Bel-iqisha,  a  Gambu- 
lian,  who  had  cast  off  the  yoke  of  my  lordship,  lost  his  life  through  the 
bite  of  a  wild  boar.  Nabu-shum-eresh,  the  TIG.EN.NA,  who  did  not 
keep  the  covenant,  bore  dropsy  and  full  waters.  Upon  Marduk-shum- 
ibni,  his  military  governor,  who  had  led  him  astray  and  who  had  brought 
evil  upon  Urtake,  Marduk,  king  of  the  gods,  laid  his  great  sins.  In  one 
year  they  laid  down  their  lives  in  each  other's  presence.  The  angry  heart 
of  Ashur  did  not  rest  with  reference  to  them  ;  the  passion  of  Ishtar  who 
supported  me  was  not  soothed  with  reference  to  them.  They  overthrew 
his  royal  reign  and  caused  another  to  take  the  lordship  of  Elam.  After- 
ward Teumman,  like  a  demon,  took  his  seat  upon  the  throne  of  Urtake. 
In  order  to  kill  the  sons  of  Urtake  and  the  sons  of  Ummanaldash,  Urtake's 
brother,  he  devised  evil.  Ummanigash,  Ummanappa,  and  Tammaritu, 
the  sons  of  Urtake,  King  of  Elam,  and  Kudurru  and  Paru,  the  sons  of 
Ummanaldash,  the  king  who  preceded  Urtake,  and  sixty  of  the  royal 
seed,  and  archers  without  number — the  nobles  of  Elam,  who  had  fled 
from  before  the  murder  of  Teumman,  their  uncle,  seized  my  royal 
feet. 


I06        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

(month  of  the)  mission  of  the  goddesses,  the  month  of 
Ashur,  the  king  of  the  gods,  the  father  of  the  gods,  great 
in  lordship,  Hke  the  onset  of  a  mighty  storm  I  covered  the 
land  of  Elam  throughout  its  extent.  I  cut  off  the  head 
of  Teumman,  their  king,  the  rebel  who  had  devised  evil.^ 
I  slew  his  warriors  without  number.  I  carried  away  his 
soldiers  alive  in  my  hands.  I  filled  the  plain  around  Susa 
with  their  bodies  like  as  with  thorns  and  thistles.  I  made 
their  blood  flow  down  the  river  Eulaus,  and  dyed  its  water 
like  wool.  Ummanigash,  son  of  Urtaki,  King  of  Elam, 
who  had  fled  to  Assyria  from  before  Teumman  and  had 
seized  my  feet,  I  brought  with  me  to  Elam  and  set  him 
on  the  throne  of  Teumman.  Tammaritu,  his  third 
brother,  who  had  fled  with  him,  I  established  as  king  in 
Hidalu. 

After  I  had  made  the  weapons  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar  rage 
over  Elam,  and  had  manifested  might  and  power,  I  turned 
my  face  on  my  return  against  Dunanu  of  Gambulu,  who 
had  trusted  in  Elam.  I  conquered  Shapibel,  the  fortress 
of  Gambulu.  I  entered  into  that  town;  I  slaughtered  its 
inhabitants  like  wild  animals.  Dunanu  and  Samg^nu, 
who  had  obstructed  the  exercise  of  my  sovereignty,  I 
bound  hand  and  foot  in  bonds,  iron  fetters,  and  iron  man- 
acles. I  led  away  from  Gambulu  to  Assyria  as  booty  the 
rest  of  the  children  of  Beliqisha,  his  family,  the  members 
of  his  father's  house,  as  many  as  there  were,  Nabunaid  and 

'  The  following  inscription  is  written  over  figures  of  two  men,  one  of 
whom  is  wounded  by  an  arrow  and  the  other  is  standing  with  bow 
stretched : 

Teumman,  in  the  depths  of  despair  said  to  his  son,  "  Shoot  with  the 
bow." 

This  is  written  over  two  figures  of  men  who  have  been  beheaded  : 

Teumman,  King  of  Elam,  who  was  wounded  in  my  powerful  battle. 
Tamritu,  his  oldest  son,  seized  his  hand,  and,  to  save  their  lives,  they 
fled  and  hid  themselves  in  a  forest.  Under  the  protection  of  Ashur  and 
Ishtar,  I  bound  them  and  cut  off  their  heads  in  each  other's  presence. 

Written  above  the  figure  of  a  man  in  a  chariot  holding  the  head  of  a 
man  in  his  hands  : 

The  head  of  Teumman,  King  of  Elam,  which  the  ahurru  of  my  troops 
cut  off  in  battle,  they  brought  hastily  to  Assyria  as  a  message  of  joyful 
tidings. 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL  107 

Beletir,  the  sons  of  Nabushumerish,  the  TIG.EN.NA, 
and  the  bones  of  their  father,  together  with  Urbi  and  Tebe, 
people  of  Gambulu,  and  oxen,  sheep,  asses,  horses,  and 
mules.  His  fortress  Shapibel  I  destroyed,  I  tore  down, 
and  I  ruined  with  water. 

At  that  time  Shamash-shum-ukin,  the  faithless  brother, 
to  whom  I  had  done  good,  and  whom  I  had  estab- 
lished as  King  of  Babylon,  and  for  whom  I  had  made 
every  possible  kind  of  royal  decoration,  and  had  given 
him,  and  had  gathered  together  soldiers,  horses,  and 
chariots,  and  had  intrusted  them  to  him,  and  had  given 
him  cities,  fields,  and  woods,  and  the  men  dwelling  in 
them,  even  more  than  my  father  had  commanded — even 
he  forgot  that  favour  I  had  shown  him,  and  he  planned 
evil.  Outwardly  with  his  lips  he  spoke  friendly  things, 
while  inwardly  his  heart  plotted  murder.  He  spoke 
deceitfully  with  the  Babylonians,  who  were  subject  to 
Assyria  and  servants  yielding  obedience  to  me,  and  he 
planned  treachery  with  them.  He  sent  them  to  me  at 
Nineveh  in  order  to  greet  me  with  a  cunning  message. 
I,  Ashurbanipal,  King  of  Assyria,  to  whom  the  great  gods 
have  allotted  a  favourable  fate  and  whom  they  created  in 
truth  and  righteousness,  made  these  Babylonians  sit  at  a 
dainty  table,  arrayed  them  in  clothing  of  party-coloured 
stuffs,  and  encircled  their  fingers  with  rings  of  gold,  as 
long  as  these  Babylonians  remained  in  Assyria  in  order 
to  wait  for  an  expression  of  my  will.  But  he,  Shamash- 
shum-ukin,  my  faithless  brother,  who  had  violated  the 
treaty  with  me,  stirred  up  a  revolt  against  me  among  the 
people  of  Akkad,  Kaldu,  and  the  sea-land  from  Aqaba  as 
far  as  Bab-salimeti — servants  who  were  subject  to  me. 
Ummanigash,  also,  a  fugitive  who  had  seized  my  royal 
feet,  and  whom  I  had  established  as  king  in  Elam,  and  the 
kings  of  Guti,  the  west-land,  and  Meluhhu,  whom  my 
hands  had  established  by  the  command  of  Ashur  and  Bel- 
tis — all  of  them  he  aroused  to  hostility  against  me,  and 
they  made  common  cause  with  him.  He  barred  the  city 
gates  of  Sippar,  Babylon,  and  Borsippa,  and  broke  off 


Io8       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

fraternal  relations  (with  me).  He  made  his  warriors  go  up 
upon  the  walls  of  these  towns,  and  they  began  war  against 
me.  He  ceased  offering  sacrifices  for  me  before  Bel,  the 
son  of  Bel,  the  light  of  the  gods,  Shamash,  and  the  war- 
rior Gira;  and  he  discontinued  the  giving  of  my  sacrifices. 
He  plotted  evil  in  order  to  seize  the  cities,  the  dwellings  of 
the  great  gods,  whose  shrines  I  had  renewed  and  had  re- 
stored with  gold  and  silver,  and  had  placed  decorations  in 
them. 

At  that  time  a  certain  seer  was  l)ang  asleep  during  the 
night,  and  he  saw  a  vision,  thus:  ^  On  the  disk  of  Sin  (the 
moon)  there  was  written  as  follows:  "Whoever  plots  evil 
against  Ashurbanipal,  King  of  Assyria,  and  begins  hos- 
tilities against  him,  I  will  send  an  evil  death  upon.  I  will 
bring  his  life  to  an  end  by  the  swift,  iron  dagger,  the  fire- 
brand, famine,  or  the  devastation  of  Gira  "  (i.  e.,  the  pest- 
god).  I  heard  these  things  and  I  trusted  in  the  word  of 
Sin,  my  lord. 

In  my  sixth  campaign  I  mustered  my  troops  and 
directed  the  march  against  Shamash-shum-ukin.  I  shut 
him  up,  together  with  his  warriors,  in  Sippar,  Babylon, 
Borsippa,  and  Kutha,  and  cut  off  their  escape.  In  city  and 
field  I  brought  defeat  upon  them  without  number.  The 
rest  perished  by  the  scourge  of  Gira,  by  hunger,  and 
famine. 

Against  Ummanigash,  King  of  Elam,  the  creature  of 
my  hands  who  had  accepted  a  bribe  from  him  (i.  e.,  Sha- 
mash-shum-ukin) and  had  come  to  an  alliance  with  him, 
Tammaritu  revolted  and  slew  both  him  and  his  family 
with  the  sword.  Thereupon  Tammaritu,  who  took  his 
seat  upon  the  throne  of  Elam  after  Ummanigash,  did  not 
send  to  greet  me,  the  king,  but  went  to  the  help  of  Sha- 
mash-shum-ukin, my  hostile  brother,  and  hastened  his 
weapons  to  battle  with  my  troops.  In  consequence  of 
the  prayers  which  I  had  offered  to  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  they 

'  A  variant  reads  : 

Nabu,  the  scribe  of  every  kind  of  divine  work,  stood  and  read  a  writ- 
ing on  the  disk  of  Sin  (that  is,  the  moon). 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL 


109 


received  my  petitions  and  heard  the  utterance  of  my  lips. 
Indabigash,  his  servant,  rebelled  against  him,  and  brought 
about  his  defeat  in  the  battlefield.  Tammaritu,  King  of 
Elam,  who  had  already  spoken  with  insolence  concerning 
the  beheading  of  Teumman,  whom  my  troops  had  be- 
headed ahurru,  saying,  "  Will  they  behead  the  King  of 
Elam  in  his  own  country  in  the  midst  of  his  troops?  " 
spoke  for  the  second  time,  saying,  "  How  has  Ummani- 
gash  kissed  the  ground  before  the  messenger  of  Ashur- 
banipal.  King  of  Assyria!  "  Ashur  and  Ishtar  punished 
him  for  those  words  which  he  had  recklessly  spoken,  and 
Tammaritu,  with  his  brother,  his  family,  the  offspring  of 
his  father's  house,  and  eighty-five  princes  who  walked  at 
his  side,  were  put  to  flight  before  Indabigash.  Their 
hearts  boiled  with  rage,  and  they  came  to  Nineveh.  Tam- 
maritu kissed  my  royal  feet  and  swept  the  ground  with  his 
beard;  threw  himself  beneath  my  wheels  and  of  his  own 
accord  determined  to  serve  me.  By  the  command  of 
Ashur  and  Ishtar  he  besought  my  lordship  to  secure  him 
his  rights  and  go  to  his  aid,  standing  before  me  and  prais- 
ing the  strength  of  the  mighty  gods,  my  lords,  who  had 
come  to  my  help.  I,  Ashurbanipal,  the  great-hearted, 
who  bears  no  grudge  against  the  violent,  and  who  con- 
dones rebellion,  showed  mercy  to  Tammaritu  and  placed 
him,  together  with  the  children  of  his  father's  house,  within 
my  palace. 

At  that  time  famine  laid  hold  of  the  people  of  Akkad 
who  had  sided  with  Shamash-shum-ukin  and  had  plotted 
evil,  and  they  ate  the  flesh  of  their  sons  and  daughters  in 
order  to  satisfy  their  hunger,  and  they  cut  open  their 
stomachs  (?).  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu, 
Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri, ,  Ishtar  of  Arbela, 
Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku,  who  went  before  me  and  sub- 
dued my  foes,  threw  Shamash-shum-ukin,  the  hostile 
brother  who  had  attacked  me,  into  an  abyss  of  burning  fire 
and  destroyed  his  life.  But  as  for  the  men  who  had 
formed  plans  against  Shamash-shum-ukin,  the  hostile 
brother,   and   had  accomplished   this   wicked   deed,   who 


no       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

feared  death,  and  whose  life  was  precious  in  their  own  eyes 
so  that  they  had  not  thrown  themselves  into  the  fire  with 
Shamash-shum-ukin,  their  lord;  who  had  fled  from  before 
the  slaughter  of  iron  dagger,  hunger,  famine,  and  burning 
fire,  and  had  seized  a  place  of  refuge — the  net  of  the  great 
gods,  my  lords,  from  which  there  is  no  escape,  overthrew 
them;  not  one  escaped;  not  a  rebel  went  forth  from  my 
hands;  they  (i.  e.,  the  gods)  delivered  them  into  my  hands. 
They  brought  before  me  chariots,  a  state  carriage,  a  can- 
opy, his  wives,  and  the  property  of  his  palace.  I  cut  out 
the  tongues  of  those  soldiers  in  whose  mouths  was  inso- 
lence because  they  had  spoken  insolence  against  Ashur, 
my  lord,  and  had  plotted  evil  against  me,  the  prince  who 
fears  him;  and  I  murdered  them.  As  for  the  rest  of  the 
men  who  were  alive,  by  the  bull-colossi,  where  my  grand- 
father, Sennacherib,  had  made  a  slaughter,  there  I  at  that 
time  slew  those  men  as  a  lamentation  for  him.  I  let  dogs, 
swine,  vultures  (?),  eagles,  birds  of  the  heavens,  and  fish  of 
the  ocean  eat  their  flesh,  which  was  cut  off. 

After  I  had  done  these  things  and  had  pacified  the 
hearts  of  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  I  brought  forth  from 
Babylon,  Kutha,  and  Sippar,  and  threw  into  heaps  the  bones 
of  the  bodies  of  the  men  whom  Gira  had  destroyed,  and 
those  who  had  died  of  hunger  and  famine — ^the  remnant 
of  the  food  of  the  dogs  and  swine  which  choked  the  streets 
and  filled  the  broad  spaces.  By  the  work  of  the  priest- 
hood I  purified  their  shrines  and  cleansed  their  defiled 
streets.  I  pacified  their  enraged  gods  and  angry  god- 
desses with  a  dirge  and  penitential  prayers.  I  completely 
restored  and  re-established  like  as  in  former  days  their 
cultus  which  had  been  diminished.  I  showed  favour  to 
the  rest  of  the  inhabitants  of  Babylon,  Kutha,  and  Sippar, 
who  had  escaped  slaughter,  massacre,  and  famine;  and  I 
commanded  that  they  should  be  allowed  to  live,  and  made 
them  dwell  in  Babylon. 

The  men  of  Akkad,  with  those  of  Kaldu,  Aramu,  and 
the  sea-coast,  whom  Shamash-shum-ukin  had  allied  to 
himself  and  had  made  of  one  mind,  became  hostile  to  me 


ANNALS  OF   ASHURBANIPAL  m 

of  their  own  accord.  By  the  command  of  Ashur  and  Bel- 
tis  and  the  great  gods,  my  supporters,  I  completely  sub- 
dued them  all  and  laid  upon  them  the  yoke  of  Ashur  which 
they  had  cast  oflf.  I  set  over  them  governors  and  prefects 
appointed  by  my  hands.  I  laid  upon  them  the  former  con- 
tinual and  regular  sacrifices  to  Ashur  and  Beltis  and  the 
gods  of  Assyria.  I  levied  on  them  tribute  and  taxes  to  me 
as  lord  (to  be  paid)  yearly  without  fail. 

In  my  seventh  campaign,  in  the  month  of  Siwan,  the 
month  of  Sin,  the  lord  of  decisions,  the  first-born  son  and 
prince  of  Bel,  I  mustered  my  troops  and  directed  the 
march  against  Ummanaldash,  King  of  Elam.^  I  took 
with  me  Tammaritu,  King  of  Elam,  who  had  fled  from  be- 
fore Indabigash,  his  servant,  and  had  laid  hold  of  my  feet. 
The  men  of  Hilmu,  Billati,  Dummuqu,  Sulai,  Lahira,  and 
Dibirina  heard  of  the  advance  of  my  mighty  battle-array 

'  The  course  of  events  in  Elam  prior  to  Ashurbanipal's  campaign 
against  Ummanaldash  is  stated  in  a  parallel  inscription  as  follows  : 

Indabigash,  who  had  taken  his  seat  upon  the  throne  of  Elam  after 
Tammaritu,  saw  the  might  of  my  weapons  which  I  had  caused  to  rage 
over  Elam  in  former  days.  Indabigash  brought  out  from  his  father's 
house  the  Assyrians  whom  I  had  sent  to  an  alliance  with  Nabu-bel-shume, 
son  of  Nabu-aplu-iddina,  who  had  marched  with  him  like  a  friend  and  com- 
panion to  the  protection  of  his  country,  whom  Nabu-bel-shume  had  seized 
by  treachery  and  had  taken  with  him  into  captivity.  In  order  to  secure 
favour  *  *  *  his  kindness  *  •  *  from  the  border  of  his  land  he  brought 
before  me  by  the  hands  of  his  messengers  in  order  to  establish  a  covenant 
and  peace. 

Concerning  Nabu-bel-shume,  son  of  Nabu-aplu-iddina,  a  servant  sub- 
ordinate to  me,  who  had  fled  and  gone  to  Elam,  and  the  rest  of  the  Assyr- 
ians whom  Nabu-bel-shume  had  seized  by  treachery  and  taken  with  him, 
I  sent  to  Indabigash  by  the  hand  of  his  messenger  as  follows  :  "  Because 
thou  dost  not  bring  those  men,  I  will  surely  come  and  destroy  thy  cities 
and  carry  off  the  inhabitants  of  Susa,  Madaktu,  and  Hidalu,  and  hurl 
thee  down  from  thy  royal  throne  and  set  another  upon  thy  throne,  and 
bring  upon  thee  the  disaster  which  I  inflicted  upon  Teumman."  As  for 
him,  his  messenger  did  not  reach  him  and  did  not  relate  to  him  the 
expression  of  my  will.  By  the  command  of  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Bel, 
Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku, 
who  walk  at  my  side  and  destroy  my  enemies,  they  heard  in  Elam 
of  the  coming  of  my  messenger  whom  I  had  sent  to  Diru.  The  fear 
of  my  sovereignty  wherewith  the  great  gods  had  adorned  me,  over- 
whelmed Elam,  and  his  land  rebelled  against  Indabigash  and  they 
killed  him  with  the  sword.  I  set  Ummanaldash,  son  of  Attametu,  upon 
his  throne. 


112       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

wherewith  I  was  approaching  the  land  of  Elam,  and  the 
briUiancy  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  my  lords,  and  the  fear  of 
my  majesty  overwhelmed  them.  They  themselves,  with 
their  people,  their  cattle,  and  their  sheep,  hurried  to  As- 
syria in  order  to  become  my  servants,  and  laid  hold  of  my 
royal  feet. 

In  the  course  of  my  campaign  I  conquered  the  ancient 
Bit-Imbi,  a  royal  city  and  fortress  of  Elam,  which  blocked 
the  way  to  Elam  like  a  great  wall,  which  Sennacherib, 
King  of  Assyria,  my  grandfather,  had  conquered  before 
me;  but  he — the  Elamite — had  again  built  a  city  in  front 
of  the  ancient  Bit-Imbi  and  had  strengthened  its  walls  and 
built  its  outer  wall  high  and  named  it  Bit-Imbi.  I  killed  its 
inhabitants  who  did  not  come  forth  and  greet  my  majesty. 
I  beheaded  them  and  cut  off  their  lips  and  took  them  to 
Assyria  as  a  spectacle  for  the  people  of  my  land.  Imbappi, 
the  prefect  of  Bit-Imbi,  the  son-in-law  of  Ummanaldash, 
King  of  Elam,  I  brought  forth  alive  from  within  that  city, 
and  I  laid  fetters  of  iron  on  his  hands  and  feet  and  car- 
ried him  to  Assyria.  I  brought  forth  the  royal  wife  and 
the  son  of  Teumman,  King  of  Elam,  whom  I  had  beheaded 
in  a  former  campaign  by  the  command  of  Ashur,  together 
with  the  rest  of  the  inhabitants  of  Bit-Imbi,  and  I  treated 
them  as  spoil. 

Ummanaldash,  King  of  Elam,  heard  of  the  entrance  of 
my  troops,  which  had  entered  Elam,  and  he  abandoned 
Madaktu,  his  royal  city,  and  fled,  and  ascended  his  moun- 
tain. Umbahabua,  who  had  fled  to  Bubilu  after  Elam  re- 
volted and  had  taken  his  seat  on  the  throne  of  Elam  in- 
stead of  Ummanaldash,  heard  thereof,  like  as  he  had,  and 
abandoned  Bubilu,  the  city  of  the  seat  of  his  lordship,  and 
like  a  fish  took  to  the  bottom  of  distant  waters. 

I  led  Tammaritu,  who  had  fled  and  laid  hold  of  my  feet, 
into  Susa,  and  made  him  king.  He  forgot  the  favour 
which  I  had  done  him  in  sending  him  help,  and  he  formed 
an  evil  plot  to  conquer  my  troops.  Thus  he  spoke  in  his 
own  heart,  "  The  people  of  Elam,  in  whatever  direction 
they  turn,  are  subject  to  Assyria,  and  they  (i.  e.,  the  As- 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL  nj 

Syrians)  will  come  in  and  will  plunder  Elam."  Ashur  and 
Ishtar,  who  walked  at  my  side  and  enabled  me  to  stand 
against  my  foes,  looked  into  the  heart  of  Tammaritu,  the 
wicked  rebel,  and  brought  him  to  account.  They  hurled 
him  down  from  his  royal  throne  and  turned  him  aside  a 
second  time  and  made  him  bow  at  my  feet.  On  account  of 
these  things  and  in  the  rage  of  my  heart  because  the  faith- 
less Tammaritu  had  rebelled,  in  the  might  and  strength  of 
the  great  gods,  my  lords,  I  marched  victoriously  through- 
out the  whole  extent  of  Elam. 

On  my  return  in  peace  with  full  hands  I  turned  the 
front  of  my  yoke  toward  Assyria.  Gatudu,  Gatuduma, 
Daiba,  Nadi,  Duru-Amnani,  Duru-Amnanima,  Hamanu, 
Taraqu,  Hajalilsi,  Bit-Kunukkubitsu,  Bit-Arrabi,  Imbi, 
Madaktu,  Susa,  Bubi,  Timmen-Marduk-sharrani,  Urdalika, 
Algariga,  Tubu,  Tel-Tubu,  Dun-sharri,  Dur-Undasi,  Dur- 
Undasima,  Bubilu,  Samunu,  Bunaku,  Qabrina,  Qabrinama, 
Hara — these  towns  I  conquered,  destroyed,  devastated,  and 
burned  with  fire.  I  carried  away  their  gods,  their  people, 
their  cattle,  their  sheep,  their  property,  their  possessions, 
their  wagons,  their  horses,  their  mules,  their  weapons,  and 
their  implements  of  war  as  spoil  to  Assyria. 

In  my  eighth  campaign  by  the  command  of  Ashur  and 
Ishtar  I  mustered  my  troops  and  directed  the  march 
against  Ummanaldash,  King  of  Elam.  I  conquered  again 
Bit-Imbi,  which  I  had  conquered  in  my  former  campaign, 
and  Rashu  and  Hamanu  with  its  district.  Now  he,  Um- 
manaldash, King  of  Elam,  heard  of  the  capture  of  Rashu 
and  Hamanu,  and  the  fear  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  who 
walked  at  my  side,  overwhelmed  him.  He  abandoned 
Madaktu,  his  royal  city,  and  fled  to  Dur-Undasi.  He 
crossed  the  Idide  and  made  that  river  his  fortress.  He 
gathered  (his  forces)  to  battle  against  me.  I  conquered 
a  royal  city,  Naditu,  with  its  district;  I  conquered  Bit- 
bunaku,  a  royal  city,  with  its  district;  I  conquered  Harta- 
banu,  a  royal  city,  with  its  district;  I  conquered  Tubu,  a 
royal  city,  with  its  district,  (which)  all  lay  in  the  river.  I 
conquered  Madaktu,  a  royal  city,  with  its  district;  I  con- 
8 


114       ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

quered  Haltemash,  his  royal  city;  I  conquered  Susa,  his 
royal  city;  I  conquered  Din-Sharri,  (and)  Sumuntunash, 
his  royal  city;  I  conquered  Pidilma,  his  royal  city;  I  con- 
quered Bubilu,  his  royal  city;  and  I  conquered  Albinak,  his 
royal  city.  Under  the  protection  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar  I 
pursued  and  marched  against  Ummanaldash,  King  of 
Elam,  who  had  not  submitted  to  my  yoke.  In  the  course 
of  my  campaign  I  conquered  Dur-Undasi,  his  royal  city. 
My  troops  saw  the  Idide  a  raging  torrent,  and  were  afraid 
of  the  crossing.  Ishtar,  who  dwells  in  Arbela,  during  the 
night  revealed  a  dream  to  my  troops  and  spoke  thus  to 
them:  "  I  march  before  Ashurbanipal,  the  king,  whom  my 
hands  created."  My  troops  trusted  in  that  dream  and 
crossed  the  Idide  in  safety.  Fourteen  cities,  his  royal 
dwelling-places,  as  well  as  small  cities,  which  were  innu- 
merable, and  twelve  districts  which 'were  all  in  Elam,  I 
conquered,  destroyed,  devastated,  and  burned  with  fire. 
I  turned  them  into  mounds  and  plough-land.  I  killed  his 
warriors  without  number,  and  slew  his  proud  soldiers  with 
weapons.  Ummanaldash,  King  of  Elam,  fled  in  his  cha- 
grin and  seized  a  mountain.  I  conquered  Banunu  and  the 
districts  of  Tasarra  in  their  entirety.  I  conquered  twenty 
cities  in  the  districts  of  Hunnir,  on  the  border  of  the  city 
Hidalu.  I  laid  waste  and  destroyed  Bashimu  and  the 
cities  in  its  environs.  I  slew  the  people  who  lived  in  them. 
I  smashed  their  gods  and  I  appeased  the  spirit  of  the  lord 
of  lords.  I  carried  away  his  gods,  his  goddesses,  his  prop- 
erty, his  possessions,  and  the  people,  small  and  great,  as 
spoil  to  Assyria.  By  the  command  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar, 
who  had  sent  me,  I  entered  sixty  leagues  into  Elam  and 
marched  victoriously  through  it. 

On  my  return,  when  Ashur  and  Ishtar  enabled  me  to 
stand  against  my  foes,  I  conquered  Susa,  a  great  city,  the 
abode  of  their  gods,  the  seat  of  their  oracles.  By  the  com- 
mand of  Ashur  and  Ishtar  I  entered  his  palaces  and  sat 
down  with  joy.  I  opened  their  treasure-houses,  wherein 
was  stored  up  silver,  gold,  property,  and  possessions,  which 
the  former  kings  of  Elam  and  the  kings  who  rule  even  up 


ANNALS   OF   ASHURBANIPAL  115 

to  these  days  had  gathered  and  stored  away,  and  on  which 
no  other  enemy  besides  me  had  laid  his  hand,  and  I 
brought  it  out  and  counted  it  as  spoil.  I  carried  away  to 
Assyria  as  spoil  silver,  gold,  property,  and  possessions  of 
Sumer,  Akkad,  and  Karduniash — everything  which  the 
former  kings  of  Elam  had  carried  away  as  spoil  in  seven 
times  and  had  brought  into  Elam — splendid  ^ariru-metal, 
shining  eshmaru-metal,  precious  stones  (which  were)  a 
costly  ornament,  fit  for  kings,  which  the  former  kings  of 
Akkad  and  Shamash-shum-ukin  had  paid  to  Elam  for  the 
purpose  of  a  league  with  them;  clothing  (which  was)  fit- 
ting decoration  for  kings,  weapons  of  war,  trophies,  every- 
thing used  in  battle  such  as  were  fit  for  his  hand;  all  the 
portable  furniture  of  his  palaces — that  whereon  he  had  sat 
and  slept,  that  from  which  he  had  eaten  and  drunk  and 
poured  libations  and  anointed  himself;  chariots,  state- 
carriages,  wagons  covered  with  qariru  and  zahalu-metal, 
horses,  and  large  mules  whose  harness  was  of  gold  and 
silver.  I  destroyed  the  temple  tower  of  Susa,  which  was 
made  with  an  incasement  of  uknu-stone,  and  I  broke  off 
its  turrets,  which  were  made  of  shining  copper.  Shushi- 
nak,  the  god  of  their  oracles,  who  dwells  in  hidden  places, 
whose  divine  activity  no  one  'sees,  Shumudu,  Lagamaru, 
Partikira,  Ammankasibar,  Uduran,  Sapak,  whom  the 
kings  of  Elam  worshipped,  Husun,  Ragiba,  Sungursara, 
Karsa,  Kirsamas,  Sudanu,  Aipaksina,  Bilala,  Panintimri, 
Silagara,  Napsa,  Napirtu,  Kindakarpu — these  gods  and 
goddesses  with  their  ornaments,  their  possessions,  their 
furnishings,  their  priests  and  temple-servants  (?)  I  carried 
away  to  Assyria.  I  took  to  Assyria  thirty-two  statues  of 
kings  which  were  made  of  silver,  gold,  copper,  and  ala- 
baster, from  Susa,  Madaktu,  and  Huradi;  and  also  a  statue 
of  Ummanigash,  son  of  Umbadara;  a  statue  of  Ishtarnan- 
hundi;  a  statue  of  Halusi;  and  a  statue  of  Tammaritu,  the 
second,  who  had  become  my  servant  by  the  command  of 
Ashur  and  Ishtar.  I  threw  down  the  bull-colossi  and  the 
guardian  gods  and  all  the  other  watchers  of  the  temple, 
and  I  tore  down  the  fierce  wild  oxen  which  decorated  the 


Il6        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

doors.  I  overthrew  the  temples  of  Elam  until  there  were 
no  more.  I  gave  its  gods  and  goddesses  to  the  winds. 
My  soldiers  entered  into  their  secret  forests  into  which  no 
stranger  had  ever  pressed  and  whose  borders  no  (stranger) 
had  trod;  they  saw  their  secret  places  and  burned  them 
with  fire.  The  mausoleums  of  their  kings,  the  earlier  and 
later  ones,  who  had  not  feared  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  my  lords, 
but  had  been  hostile  to  the  kings,  my  fathers,  I  destroyed 
and  laid  waste  and  exposed  them  to  the  sun.  I  took  their 
bones  to  Assyria;  I  gave  their  shades  no  repose,  and  de- 
prived them  of  their  food  and  drink-offerings.  I  laid 
waste  the  regions  of  Elam  during  a  march  of  one  month 
(and)  twenty-five  days,  and  I  strewed  salt  and  thorns  over 
them.  I  carried  away  to  Assyria  as  spoil  kings'  daugh- 
ters and  kings'  sisters,  along  with  the  older  and  younger 
families  of  the  kings  of  Elam,  prefects,  the  governors  of  all 
the  cities  which  I  had  conquered,  chief  archers,  officers, 
charioteers  (?),  the  III  HU.SI,  the  master  of  the  horse, 
archers,  chiefs,  artisans,  all  the  workmen,  as  many  as  there 
were,  people — ^male  and  female,  small  and  great — ^horses, 
mules,  asses,  and  oxen  and  sheep,  which  were  more  nu- 
merous than  locusts.  I  took  the  dust  of  Susa,  Madaktu, 
Haltemash,  and  the  rest  of  their  cities  like  *  *  *  to  As- 
syria. In  thirty  days  I  overpowered  Elam  throughout  its 
entire  extent.  I  deprived  its  fields  of  the  shouts  of  men, 
the  trampling  of  cattle  and  sheep,  and  the  glad  cry  of  joy. 
I  made  the  wild  asses  and  gazelles,  the  animals  of  the  field, 
as  many  as  there  were,  lie  down  therein  like  *  *  * 

As  for  Nanna  ^  who  had  been  angry  for  sixteen  hundred 
and  thirty-five  years  and  had  gone  and  dwelt  in  Elam,  a 
place  not  suitable  to  her,  and  who  in  those  days  along 

'  Another  account  tells  of  the  carrying  off  of  Nanna  as  follows  : 
Kudumanhundi,  the  Elamite,  who  did  not  fear  the  great  gods  and  who 
in  confusion  of  mind  trusted  to  his  own  might,  and  laid  his  hand  upon 
the  shrines  of  Akkad  and  laid  waste  the  land  of  Akkad  [  *  *  *  ]  the  days 
were  fulfilled ;  the  allotted  time  had  come,  the  great  gods  [saw]  the  deeds 
and  after  sixteen  hundred  and  thirty-five  years  [avenged]  the  devastation 
of  the  Elamite.  They  sent  me,  Ashur-bani-pal,  a  prince,  who  fears  them, 
to  bring  Elam  to  naught  and  [they  put  into  my  hands]  an  un[sparing] 
weapon. 


ANNALS  OF   ASHURBANIPAL 


117 


with  the  gods,  her  fathers,  had  announced  my  name  for 
lordship  over  the  lands,  and  had  intrusted  the  return  of 
her  divine  self  to  me,  saying,  "  Ashurbanipal  shall  lead 
me  forth  from  wicked  Elam,  and  shall  cause  me  to  enter 
E-anna  " — at  that  time  they  (i.  e.,  the  gods)  caused  men  of 
later  days  to  see  the  (execution  of)  their  divine  word  of 
command  which  they  had  spoken  from  ancient  times.  I 
seized  the  hand  of  her  great  divinity,  and  with  joy  of  heart 
she  took  the  straight  way  to  E-anna.  On  the  first  day  of 
the  month  of  Kislev  I  brought  her  into  Erech  and  gave  her 
a  dwelling  in  E-shargubana,  which  she  loved,  in  an  ever- 
lasting shrine. 

I  presented  to  my  gods  the  best  of  the  people  and 
of  the  spoil  of  Elam,  which  I  had  plundered  in  accordance 
with  the  command  of  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel, 
Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of 
Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku.  I  added  to  my  royal 
host  the  archers,  shield-bearers,  workmen,  and  artisans 
whom  I  had  carried  away  as  spoil  from  Elam.  The  rest 
I  distributed  like  sheep  among  the  cities,  the  habitations 
of  the  great  gods,  my  prefects,  my  great  men,  and  my 
whole  camp. 

Ummanaldash,  King  of  Elam,  who  had  seen  the  vio- 
lence of  the  mighty  weapons  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  came 
back  from  the  mountains  where  was  his  refuge,  and  en- 
tered into  Madaktu,  a  city  which  by  the  command  of  Ashur 
and  Ishtar  I  had  torn  down  and  destroyed  and  spoiled,  and 
he  seated  himself  in  mourning  in  the  place  of  sadness. 

As  for  Nabu-bel-shume,  the  grandson  of  Merodach- 
baladan,  who  had  broken  the  covenant  with  me,  and  had 
cast  ofif  the  yoke  of  my  lordship,  who  had  made  the  kings 
of  Elam  his  strength,  and  had  trusted  in  Ummanigash, 
Tammaritu,  Indabigash,  and  Ummanaldash,  the  kings 
who  had  exercised  the  lordship  of  Elam— concerning 
the  delivering  up  of  Nabu-bel-shume  I  sent  my  mes- 
senger in  the  fulness  of  (my)  wrath  to  Ummanaldash. 
Nabu-bel-shume,  grandson  of  Merodachbaladan,  heard  of 
the  coming  of  my  messenger  who  had  entered  Elam,  and 


Il8        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

his  heart  was  troubled  and  anguish  seized  him,  and  his 
Hfe  became  worthless  in  his  eyes  and  he  longed  for  death. 
He  commanded  his  own  shield-bearer  thus:  "  Slay  me  with 
the  weapons."  He  and  his  shield-bearer  (thereupon)  ran 
each  other  through  with  the  iron  dagger  of  their  girdles. 
Ummanaldash  was  afraid  and  laid  the  corpse  of  the  afore- 
said Nabu-bel-shume  in  salt,  and  gave  it,  together  with  the 
head  of  his  shield-bearer  who  had  run  him  through  with 
the  weapon,  to  my  messenger,  and  he  brought  it  into  my 
presence.  I  did  not  give  his  corpse  over  to  burial,  but  I 
made  his  death  more  complete  than  before  and  cut  off  his 
head  and  hung  it  on  the  neck  of  Nabuqati^abat,  a  Sin-ma- 
gir  of  Shamash-shum-ukin,  the  hostile  brother,  who  had 
gone  with  him  to  make  Elam  hostile  (to  me). 

Pae,  who  exercised  lordship  over  Elam  in  place  of 
Ummanaldash,  thought  upon  the  rage  of  the  mighty 
weapons  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  which  they  had  poured  out 
upon  Elam  once,  twice,  three  times,  and  hopelessness 
seized  him.  He  fled  from  Elam  and  seized  my  royal  feet. 
The  rebellious  people  of  Bit-Imbi,  Kuzurten,  Dur-sharri, 
Masutu,  Bube,  Bit-Unzai,  Bit-Arrabi,  Iprat,  Dimtu-sha- 
Tapapa,  Akbarina,  Qurukirra,  Dunnu-Shamash,  Hamanu, 
Kaniqu,  Aranziashi,  Nagidati,  Dimtu-sha-Simame,  Bit- 
Qatatti,  Sha-Kisai,  Subahe,  Tel-Humba,  who  had  fled  be- 
fore the  mighty  weapons  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar  in  my  former 
campaign,  and  had  seized  Saladri,  an  impassable  moun- 
tain— these  people  who  had  made  the  mountain  Saladri 
their  stronghold,  the  brilliance  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  my 
lords,  overwhelmed.  They  fled  from  the  mountain  where 
they  had  taken  refuge,  and  they  seized  my  feet.  I  gath- 
ered them  for  the  bow  and  added  them  to  my  royal  host 
which  they  (i.  e.,  the  gods)  had  intrusted  to  me. 

In  my  ninth  campaign  I  mustered  my  troops^  and 
directed  the  march  against  Uaite,  King  of  Arabia,  who  had 

'  A  parallel  passage  reads  as  follows : 

Yattta',  son  of  Hazael,  King  of  Kedar,  who  yielded  obedience  to  me, 
prayed  to  me,  and  besought  my  kingship  for  the  sake  of  his  gods  which 
my  father  had  carried  oflf  as  spoil.  I  made  him  pronounce  the  name  of 
the  great  gods  and  gave  him  back  the  Atarsamain.     Afterward  he  vio- 


ANNALS   OF   ASHURBANIPAL  ng 

broken  my  treaty,  and  had  not  kept  in  mind  the  favours 
which  I  had  shown  him,  but  had  thrown  oflf  the  yoke  of 
my  lordship,  which  Ashur  had  laid  upon  him,  in  order  that 
he  should  be  tributary  to  me.  He  had  refrained  from  asking 
after  my  welfare,  and  had  withheld  the  gift  of  his  heavy 
tribute.  Like  Elam,  he  heard  of  the  rebellious  plans  of 
Akkad,  and  disregarded  my  treaty.  Me — Ashurbanipal — 
the  king,  the  pure  priest,  the  pious  chief,  the  product  of 
the  hands  of  Ashur,  he  deserted  and  to  Abiyate  and  Ayamu, 
sons  of  Teri,  he  handed  over  his  forces  and  sent  them  to 
the  help  of  Shamash-shum-ukin,  the  hostile  brother,  and 
made  common  cause  with  him.  He  (i.  e.,  Shamash-shum- 
ukin)  stirred  up  the  Arabians  to  revolt  along  with  himself, 
and  made  plundering  raids  upon  the  people,  dominion 
over  whom  Ashur,  Ishtar,  and  the  great  gods  had  given  to 
me  to  exercise  and  had  intrusted  to  me.  At  the  command  of 
Ashur  and  Ishtar  I  summoned  my  troops;  on  the  way  to 
Azarilu  and  Hirataqaqai,  in  Edom,  in  the  pass  of  Yabrud, 
in  Beth-Ammon,  in  the  districts  of  Hauran,  in  Moab,  in 
Sa'arri,  in  Harge,  and  in  the  districts  of  ^ubitu,  a  countless 
number  of  his  men  I  killed  and  brought  about  his  defeat. 
The  Arabians,  as  many  as  had  gone  forth  with  him,  I  ran 
through  with  the  sword,  while  he  himself  escaped  from  be- 
fore Ashur's  mighty  weapons  and  fled  afar  oflf.  They  set 
fire  to  the  tents,  their  dwellings,  and  burned  them  up.  Dis- 
aster overtook  Uaite,  and  he  fled  alone  to  Nabataea. 

As  for  Uaite,  son  of  Hazael,  cousin  of  Uaite,  son  of 
Birdadda,  who  had  made  himself  King  of  Arabia — ^Ashur, 
king  of  the  gods,  the  great  rock,  changed  his  purpose,  and 
he  came  into  my  presence.  In  order  to  exhibit  the 
majesty  of  Ashur  and  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  I  laid  heavy 
punishment  upon  him,  in  that  I  put  him  in  a  cage,  and 
with  wild  beasts  (?)  and  dogs  I  bound  him  and  set  him  to 

lated  the  treaty  with  me  and  did  not  cherish  the  good  (which  I  had  done 
him)  and  cast  off  the  yoke  of  my  lordship  and  withheld  his  feet  from 
coming  to  greet  me  and  kept  back  the  present.  He  led  the  Arabians 
to  revolt  with  him  and  carried  off  the  plunder  of  the  west-land.  I 
sent  against  him  my  troops  which  were  occupying  the  border  of  his 
land,  etc. 


I20       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

watch  the  city  gate  of  Nineveh,  (which  is  called)  "  The  en- 
trance to  Temple-street." 

Ammuladi  also.  King  of  Kedar,  advanced  in  order  to 
make  war  upon  the  kings  of  the  west-land,  whom  Ashur, 
Ishtar,  and  the  great  gods  had  intrusted  to  me.  Under  the 
protection  of  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu, 
Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela, 
Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku,  I  brought  about  his  defeat. 
Him,  together  with  Adiya,*  wife  of  Uaite,  King  of  Arabia, 
they  captured  alive  and  brought  before  me.  By  the  com- 
mand of  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  I  put  a  dog-chain  on  him 
and  set  him  to  watch  in  a  cage. 

By  the  command  of  Ashur,  Ishtar,  and  the  great  gods, 
my  lords,  I  slew  the  ally  of  Abiyate  and  Ayamu,  sons  of 
Teri,  who  had  come  to  the  help  of  Shamash-shum-ukin, 
the  hostile  brother,  in  order  to  enter  into  Babylon,  and 
I  brought  about  his  defeat.  The  rest  of  them,  who  had 
entered  into  Babylon,  through  stress  of  famine  ate  one 
another's  flesh.  In  order  to  save  their  lives  they  came 
forth  from  Babylon,  and  my  army,  which  was  besieging 
Shamash-shum-ukin,  defeated  him  for  the  second  time, 
while  he  himself  fled  alone,  and  in  order  to  save  his  life 
threw  himself  at  my  feet.  I  granted  him  mercy,  made  him 
swear  to  the  compacts  by  the  great  gods,  and  I  made  him 
King  of  Arabia  instead  of  Uaite,  son  of  Hazael. 

However,  he  made  common  cause  with  the  Nabataeans, 
and  did  not  fear  the  oath  by  the  great  gods,  but  plundered 
the  border  of  my  land.  Through  the  influence  of  Ashur, 
Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh, 
Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and 
Nusku,  Natnu,  King  of  Nabataea,  a  far-distant  country,  to 
whom  Uaite  had  fled,  heard  of  the  power  of  Ashur  which 
emboldened  me,  and  though  never  before  had  he  sent  his 
messengers  to  the  kings,  my  fathers,  and  asked  after  their 
royal  welfare,  he  was  overcome  by  fear  of  the  victorious 

'  Another  inscription  gives  this  account  of  the  capture  of  Adiya : 
I  slew  the  warriors  of  Adiya,  Queen  of  Arabia,  in  great  numbers  and 
burned  their  tents  with  fire.     I  seized  her  herself  alive  with  my  hands 
and  [took]  her,  together  with  the  plunder  of  [her]  country,  to  Assyria. 


ANNALS  OF   ASHURBANIPAL  121 

arms  of  Ashur,  so  that  he  asked  after  my  royal  welfare. 
But  Abiyate,  son  of  Teri,  unmindful  of  kindness,  and  re- 
gardless of  the  oath  of  the  great  gods,  formed  plans  of 
revolt  against  me,  and  made  common  cause  with  Natnu, 
King  of  Nabataea,  and  they  mustered  their  forces  for  an 
attack  upon  my  border.  By  the  command  of  Ashur,  Sin, 
Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen 
of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku,  I 
mustered  my  troops,  and  against  Abiyate  I  directed  the 
march.  The  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  at  full  flood  they 
crossed  over  in  safety;  they  marched  by  distant  paths; 
they  climbed  high  mountains;  they  made  their  way 
through  dense  forests;*  between  high  trees,  thorns  (?), 
briers  (?),  on  a  road  full  of  brambles  they  marched  unin- 
jured. Through  the  land  of  Mash,^  a  region  of  thirst  and 
starvation,  where  the  birds  of  the  heavens  do  not  fly,  and 
where  wild  asses  and  gazelles  do  not  pasture,  a  journey 
of  two  hundred  hours  from  Nineveh,  the  favourite  city  of 
Ishtar,  the  consort  of  Bel,  after  Uaite,  King  of  Arabia, 
and  Abiyate,  who  had  joined  forces  with  the  army  of 
Nabataea,  they  marched. 

In  the  month  of  Siwan,  the  month  of  Sin,  the  first 
and  most  eminent  son  of  Bel,  on  the  twenty-fifth  day  of  the 
procession  of  Beltis  of  Babylon,  honoured  among  the  great 
gods,  I  set  out  from  Hadatta.  Near  Laribda,  a  fortress  of 
kunukke  stone,  by  cisterns  of  water,  I  pitched  my  camp. 
My  troops  provided  themselves  with  water  for  their  thirst 
and  marched  on  through  the  land  of  thirst,  the  region  of 
starvation,  as  far  as  Hurarina.  Between  Yarku  and  Azalla, 
in  the  land  of  the  Mash,^  a  distant  place,  where  wild  animals 
do  not  live,  and  where  the  birds  of  the  heavens  do  not  make 
their  nests,  I  brought  about  the  defeat  of  the  Isami,  the 
tent-dwellers  of  Atarsamain  and  of  Nabataea.  Men,  asses, 
camels,  and  sheep  without  number  I  carried  oflf  as  plunder. 
Sixteen  hours'  journey  by  land  my  troops  marched  on 
victoriously  and  returned  in  safety.  In  Azalla  they  drank 
their  fill  of  water.    From  Azalla  as  far  as  Quraqiti,  twelve 

'  Literally,  forests  whose  shade  was  broad.  '  Or,  the  wilderness. 


122        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

hours'  march  through  a  land  of  thirst  and  starvation  they 
went  on.  I  surrounded  the  tent-dwellers  of  Atarsamain 
and  the  Kedarenes  of  Uaite,  son  of  Birdadda,  King  of 
Arabia.  His  gods,  his  mother,  his  sister,  his  wife,  his 
family,  the  whole  population  of  Kedar;  the  asses,  the 
camels,  and  sheep,  as  many  of  them  as  my  hands  had  cap- 
tured under  the  protection  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  my  lords, 
I  set  on  the  road  to  Damascus.  In  the  month  of  Ab,  the 
month  of  the  Bow-star,  the  daughter  of  warlike  Sin,  on 
the  third  day,  the  festival  of  Marduk,  king  of  the  gods,  I 
set  out  from  Damascus;  twelve  hours'  journey,  all  night 
long,  I  marched  and  came  to  Arhuliti.  At  Hukkurina,  an 
impassable  mountain,  I  came  upon  the  tent-dwellers  of 
Abiyate,  son  of  Teri,  the  Kedarene.  I  defeated  him  and 
carried  away  his  spoil.  Abiyate  and  Ayamu,  sons  of  Teri, 
by  the  command  of  Ashur  and  Ishtar,  my  lords,  my  hands 
captured  alive  in  battle.  On  their  hands  and  feet  I  put 
iron  chains,  and  along  with  the  spoil  of  their  land  I  took 
them  to  Assyria.  The  fugitives,  who  had  fled  from  before 
my  weapons,  were  afraid  and  took  refuge  on  an  impassable 
mountain.  In  Manhanabbi,  Apparu,  Tenuquri,  Zayuran, 
Marqana,  Sadaten,  Enzikarme,  Tana,  Irrana — over  all 
places  where  were  cisterns  and  springs  of  water,  as  many  as 
there  were,  I  set  watches,  and  I  cut  off  the  water  necessary 
to  their  lives,  allowing  them  only  an  occasional  drink.  They 
died  of  thirst,  and  the  rest  cut  open  the  camels  of  their  herds, 
and  to  quench  their  thirst  drank  the  blood  and  the  water  of 
the  entrails.  Of  those  who  had  gone  up  into  the  mountain, 
and  had  entered  in  and  occupied  a  place  of  refuge,  not  one 
escaped,  not  a  rebel  escaped  my  hands;  in  their  place  of 
refuge  my  hands  captured  them:  the  people — male  and 
female — ^the  asses,  camels,  cattle  and  sheep,  in  countless 
numbers  I  carried  away  as  spoil  to  Assyria.  The  whole  of 
my  land  which  Ashur  had  given  to  me — all  of  it — through- 
out its  whole  extent  they  filled  up.  Camels,  like  sheep,  I 
divided  and  distributed  to  the  people  of  Assyria.  In  my 
land  camels  were  worth  from  a  half-shekel  to  a  shekel  of 
silver  apiece  (?)  at  the  auction  gate.    The  9utammu  for  a 


ANNALS   OF  ASHURBANIPAL  123 

Tiidni,  the  amelu  SI(A)M  for  a  ha-pi-e,  the  gardener  for  his 
kishu,  from  him  whom  I  had  appointed  (?)  bought  camels 
and  slaves.* 

The  warlike  Pest-god  overthrew  Uaite,  together  with 
his  troops,  who  had  not  kept  my  treaty  and  had  escaped 
from  before  the  weapons  of  Ashur,  my  lord,  and  fled  be- 
fore them.  Famine  arose  among  them,  and  for  their  hun- 
ger they  ate  the  flesh  of  their  children.  The  curses,  as 
many  as  were  inscribed  upon  their  treaty,  Ashur,  Sin,  Sha- 
mash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of 
Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku  sud- 
denly brought  upon  them.  Young  camels,  suhiru,  calves 
and  lambs  sucked  their  dams  seven  times  each,  and  yet  did 
not  satisfy  their  stomachs  with  milk.  The  Arabians  asked 
one  of  another,  "  Why  has  such  calamity  as  this  come 
upon  Arabia?"  [and  were  answered],  "Because  we  have 
not  kept  the  great  oaths  of  Ashur,  but  have  rebelled 
against  the  favours  of  Ashurbanipal,  the  king,  the  beloved 
of  Bel."  Beltis,  the  beloved  of  Bel,  the  strong  one,  hon- 
oured of  the  goddesses,  who  sits  enthroned  with  Anu  and 
Bel,  gored  my  enemies  with  her  mighty  horns.  Ishtar, 
who  dwells  in  Arbela,  clothed  in  flames  and  arrayed  in 
brilliancy,  rained  down  fire  upon  Arabia.  The  warlike 
Pest-god  girded  on  war  and  overthrew  my  enemies. 
Ninib,  the  lance,  the  great  warrior,  the  son  of  Bel,  with  his 
sharp  arrows  cut  oflf  my  enemies.  Nusku,  the  exalted 
messenger,  who  glorifies  my  lordship,  who  at  the  com- 
mand of  Ashur  and  the  warlike  Beltis,  queen  of  *  *  * 
walked  at  my  side  and  protected  my  sovereignty,  placed 
himself  at  the  head  of  my  troops  and  overthrew  my  foes. 
The  troops  of  Uaite  heard  of  the  attack  of  the  weapons  of 
Ashur  and  Ishtar,  the  great  gods,  my  lords,  who  came  to 
my  aid  in  battle,  and  they  rebelled  against  him.  He 
feared,  fled  from  his  house  and  went  forth.  Under  the  pro- 
tection of  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ish- 

■  While  most  of  the  words  in  this  sentence  are  unlcnown,  the  general 
sense  seems  to  be  that  camels  were  so  cheap  that  any  common  working- 
man  could  secure  a  camel  in  exchange  for  one  of  his  ordinary  tools. 


124 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


tar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib, 
Nergal,  and  Nusku,  my  hands  captured  him  and  brought 
him  to  Assyria.  In  answer  to  my  prayer  which  I  had 
made  for  the  overthrow  of  my  enemies,  by  the  command  of 
Ashur  and  Beltis,  with  my  sharp  weapon  held  in  my  hand 
I  pierced  his  jaw;  through  his  cheek  I  put  a  rope  (?);  a 
dog-collar  I  put  on  him  and  at  the  east  gate  of  Nineveh, 
which  is  called  "The  entrance  to  Temple-street,"  I  set 
him  to  watch  in  a  cage.  In  order  that  he  might  be  sub- 
missive to  the  majesty  of  Ashur,  Ishtar,  and  the  g^eat  gods, 
my  lords,  I  granted  him  mercy  and  let  him  live. 

On  my  return  march  I  conquered  the  city  of  Ushu, 
which  is  situated  on  the  sea-coast.  I  killed  the  inhabitants 
of  Ushu  who  had  been  disobedient  to  their  governors  in 
paying  no  tribute  as  the  gift  of  their  land.  Among  the  un- 
submissive population  I  executed  judgment;  their  gods 
and  their  men  I  carried  as  spoil  to  Assyria.  The  people  of 
Akko  who  were  rebellious  I  killed;  hung  their  bodies 
upon  stakes,  and  surrounded  the  city  with  them.  The  rest 
of  them  I  took  to  Assyria,  formed  them  into  a  division  and 
added  them  to  my  many  troops,  which  Ashur  had  given 
me.  Ayamu,  son  of  Teri,  who  had  taken  sides  with 
Abiyate,  his  brother,  and  had  fought  against  my  troops, 
I  captured  alive  in  battle  with  my  own  hands,  and  in 
Nineveh,  my  capital,  I  flayed  him. 

Ummanaldash,  King  of  Elam,  whom  from  of  old  Ashur 
and  Ishtar,  my  lords,  had  commanded  to  be  my  servant, 
and  against  whom  by  the  command  of  their  exalted  deity, 
which  is  inflexible,  his  land  afterward  rebelled,  and  who 
had  fled  alone  from  before  the  revolt  of  his  servants  which 
they  had  organized  against  him,  and  had  seized  a  moun- 
tain, from  the  mountain,  the  place  of  his  refuge,  whither 
he  had  fled,  I  brought  forth  like  a  falcon  (?)  and  took  to 
Assyria  alive.  Tammaritu,  Pae,  and  Ummanaldash,  who 
one  after  another  had  exercised  the  lordship  of  Elam,  and 
whom  I  had  subjected  to  my  yoke  in  the  might  of  Ashur 
and  Ishtar,  my  lords,  and  Uaite,  King  of  Arabia,  whom  I 
had  defeated  in  accordance  with  the  command  of  Ashur 


ANNALS  OF  ASHURBANIPAL  125 

and  Ishtar,  and  had  taken  from  his  own  land  to  Assyria — 
when  I  went  up  to  ofifer  (?)  sacrifices  in  E-mash-mash,  the 
dwelUng  of  their  lordship,  before  Beltis,  the  mother  of  the 
great  gods,  the  loved  consort  of  Ashur,  and  took  oaths  by 
the  gods  of  Bit-akit,  I  made  them  take  the  yoke  of  my 
state  carriage,  and  they  drew  it  beneath  me  to  the  gate  of 
the  temple.  I  threw  myself  upon  my  face  and  exalted 
their  deity  and  praised  their  power  in  the  midst  of  my  hosts 
because  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar 
of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Ninib, 
Nergal,  and  Nusku  had  subjected  to  my  yoke  those  who 
were  unsubmissive,  and  with  might  and  power  had  placed 
me  over  my  enemies. 

Sar-duri,  King  of  Urarti,  whose  fathers,  the  kings,  had 
sent  brotherly  greetings  to  my  fathers — at  that  time  Sar- 
duri  heard  of  the  mighty  deeds  which  the  great  gods  had 
decreed  for  me,  and  like  as  a  son  sends  a  message  of  sub- 
mission to  his  father,  he  sent  a  message  like  this  to  me: 
"  Greetings  to  the  king,  my  lord  " ;  and  with  fear  and  sub- 
mission he  caused  his  heavy  present  to  be  brought  into 
my  presence. 

At  that  time  the  harem,  the  resting-place  of  the  palace 
which  is  in  Nineveh,  the  lofty  city  which  is  loved  by  Beltis, 
which  Sennacherib,  my  grandfather,  King  of  Assyria,  had 
built  for  his  royal  dwelling,  that  harem  had  become  old 
with  joy  and  gladness,  and  its  walls  had  fallen.  I,  Ashur- 
banipal,  the  great  king,  the  mighty  king,  the  king  of  the 
world,  the  King  of  Assyria,  the  king  of  the  four  quarters 
of  the  world,  because  I  had  grown  up  in  that  harem,  and 
Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu,  Ishtar  of  Nine- 
veh, Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  Queen  of  Laws, 
Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku  had  preserved  me  therein  as 
crown-prince,  and  had  extended  their  good  protection  and 
shelter  of  prosperity  over  me,  and  from  the  time  when  I 
took  my  seat  upon  the  throne  of  my  father  and  exercised 
lordship  over  widely  extended  lands  and  peoples  had  con- 
stantly sent  me  joyful  tidings  therein  of  victory  over  my 
enemies;  and  because  my  dreams  on  my  bed  at  night  were 


126       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

pleasant,  and  on  that  of  the  morning  my  fancies  were 
bright;  and  because  that  dwelling  brings  prosperity  to  its 
lord,  and  the  great  gods  have  decreed  a  favourable  fate  for 
it,  I  tore  down  its  ruins.  In  order  to  extend  its  area  I 
tore  it  all  down.  I  erected  a  building  the  site  of  whose 
structure  was  fifty  tibki  (in  extent).  I  raised  a  terrace;  (but) 
I  was  afraid  before  the  shrines  of  the  great  gods,  my  lords, 
and  did  not  raise  that  structure  very  high.  In  a  good 
month,  on  a  favourable  day,  I  put  in  its  foundation  upon 
that  terrace  and  laid  its  brickwork.  I  emptied  sesame- 
wine  and  wine  upon  its  cellar,  and  poured  also  upon  its 
earthen  wall.  In  order  to  build  that  harem  the  people  of 
my  land  hauled  its  bricks  there  in  wagons  of  Elam  which 
I  had  carried  away  as  spoil  by  the  command  of  the  gods. 
I  made  the  kings  of  Arabia,  who  had  violated  their  treaty 
with  me  and  whom  I  had  captured  alive  in  battle  with  my 
own  hands,  carry  baskets  and  (wear)  workmen's  caps  in 
order  to  build  that  harem;  and  I  imposed  forced  service 
upon  them.  They  spent  their  days  in  moulding  its  bricks 
and  performing  forced  service  for  it  to  the  playing  of 
music.  With  joy  and  rejoicing  I  built  it  from  its  founda- 
tion to  its  roof.  I  made  more  room  in  it  than  before,  and 
made  the  work  upon  it  splendid.  I  laid  upon  it  long 
beams  of  cedars,  which  grew  upon  Sirara  and  Lebanon.  I 
covered  doors  of  liaru-wood,  whose  odour  is  pleasant,  with 
a  sheath  of  copper,  and  hung  them  in  its  doorways.  I 
covered  long  beams  with  bright  copper,  and  laid  them  as 
the  frame  of  the  doors  of  its  porch.  I  completed  that 
harem,  my  royal  dwelling,  in  its  entirety,  and  filled  it  with 
splendour.  I  planted  around  it  a  grove  of  all  kinds  of 
trees,  and  Sha-sa-sa  fruits  of  every  kind.  I  finished  the 
work  of  its  construction,  offered  splendid  sacrifices  to  the 
gods,  my  lords,  dedicated  it  with  joy  and  rejoicing,  and 
entered  therein  under  a  splendid  canopy. 

In  days  to  come  may  that  one  among  the  kings,  my 
sons,  whose  name  Ashur  and  Ishtar  may  proclaim  for  lord- 
ship over  lands  and  peoples,  when  this  harem  becomes  old 
and  falls  into  decay,  repair  its  damages;  and  may  he  see 


INSCRIPTION  OF  ASHURBANIPAL 


127 


the  inscription  with  my  signature  and  those  of  my  father 
and  of  my  grandfather,  the  enduring  royal  race;  and  may 
he  anoint  it  with  ointment  and  offer  sacrifices  and  set  it 
up  along  with  the  inscription  on  which  his  own  name  is 
written;  and  may  the  great  gods — as  many  as  are  written 
on  these  inscriptions — present  him  with  power  and  might 
as  they  have  me!  But  whoever  destroys  the  inscription 
with  my  signature  and  those  of  my  father  and  of  my  grand- 
father, and  does  not  set  it  up  along  with  his  own  inscrip- 
tion— him  may  Ashur,  Sin,  Shamash,  Ramman,  Bel,  Nabu, 
Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Queen  of  Kidmuri,  Ishtar  of  Arbela, 
Ninib,  Nergal,  and  Nusku  condemn  by  a  judgment  includ- 
ing the  naming  of  my  name! 

On  the  fifteenth  of  lyyar  in  the  eponymy  of  Shamash- 
udanninanni,  governor  of  Akkad. 


BUILDING    OPERATIONS    OF    ASHUR- 
BANIPAL  IN    BABYLON   (668  b.  c.) 

I  AM  Ashurbanipal,  the  great  king,  the  mighty  king, 
king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria,  king  of  the  four  quar- 
ters (of  the  world),  king  of  kings,  the  prince  without  an 
equal,  who  by  the  corrimand  of  Ashur,  Shamash,  and  Mar- 
duk  rules  from  the  Upper  to  the  Lower  Sea,  and  has  sub- 
dued all  princes  beneath  his  feet;  the  restorer  of  Esagila, 
the  temple  of  the  gods,  who  has  made  its  fastenings  bright 
like  the  starry  heavens,  and  has  repaired  the  damages  of  all 
the  temples  and  established  his  protection  over  air  cities; 
whose  works  are  pleasing  to  all  the  gods,  whose  rule  over 
the  Black-headed  people  is  acceptable;  the  son  of  Esar- 
haddon,  king  of  the  world.  King  of  Assyria,  governor  of 
Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  who  peopled  Baby- 
lon, built  Esagila,  renovated  the  shrines  of  all  the  cities, 
adorned  their  interior,  re-established  their  daily  offerings 
which  had  fallen  into  disuse,  and  restored  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  old;  the  grandson  of  Sennacherib,  the  great 


128        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

king,  the  mighty  king,  king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria, 
am  I. 

The  great  lord  Marduk,  who,  during  the  reign  of  the 
former  king,  dwelt  in  Asshur  in  the  presence  of  his  father  * 
who  begat  him,  in  the  days  of  my  reign  entered  with  re- 
joicing into  Babylon,  and  I  re-established  the  daily  sacri- 
fices of  Esagila  and  of  the  gods  of  Babylon.  I  strength- 
ened law  and  order  in  Babylon  in  order  that  the  strong 
might  not  injure  the  weak.  I  appointed  Shamash-shum- 
ukin,  my  twin  brother,  to  the  kingship  of  Babylon. 

In  those  days,  during  my  reig^,  I  repaired  the  ruins 
of  the  wall  of  Ezida,  which  had  become  old,  and  whose 
foundation  was  weakened,  and  I  built  it  high  like  a  moun- 
tain. 

May  Nabu,  the  exalted  lord,  forever  look  upon  my 
pious  deeds  with  joy! 

And  as  for  me,  Ashurbanipal,  the  prince  who  worships 
him. 

May  a  word  of  favour  toward  me  be  found  upon  his 
lips! 

Long  life,  abundance  of  offspring,  health  of  body,  and 
joy  of  heart  may  he  appoint  as  my  lot! 

The  foundation  of  my  royal  throne  may  he  make  firm 
like  a  mountain! 

With  the  heavens  and  earth  may  he  establish  my 
reign! 

And  as  for  Shamash-shum-ukin,  my  twin  brother,  King 
of  Babylon,  may  his  days  be  long! 

May  he  be  satisfied  with  pleasures! 

In  all  the  future,  may  the  later  prince,  in  the  course 
of  whose  reign  this  work  may  fall  into  ruins,  repair  its 
damages;  my  royal  image  may  he  find  and  anoint  it  with 
oil;  may  he  offer  sacrifices  and  set  it  up  alongside  of  his 
own  image;  then  Nabu  will  hear  his  prayer!  But  whoso- 
ever erases  my  inscription,  tears  down  my  royal  image, 
changes  its  place  and  does  not  set  it  up  alongside  of  his 
own  image,  may  Nabu,  the  great  lord,  look  upon  him  in 
I  That  is,  Marduk's  father,  Ashur. 


INSCRIPTION   OF   ASHURBANIPAL  129 

wrath;  overthrow  his  royal  throne;  and  take  away  his  lord- 
ship; his  name  and  his  seed  may  he  destroy  from  all  lands; 
and  may  he  show  him  no  mercy ! 


AN    INSCRIPTION   OF   ASHURBANIPAL 

From  a  Barrel  Cylinder  found  at  Aboo-Habba 

I  AM  Ashurbanipal,  the  great  king,  the  mighty  king, 
the  king  of  the  universe,  the  King  of  Assyria,  the  king  of 
the  four  quarters  of  the  world,  the  king  of  kings,  the 
prince  without  a  rival,  who  by  the  command  of  the  gods, 
his  supporters,  ruled  from  the  Upper  Sea  to  the  Lower  Sea, 
and  brought  all  princes  to  his  feet;  the  son  of  Esarhaddon/ 
the  great  king,  the  mighty  king,  the  king  of  the  universe, 
the  King  of  Assyria,  the  governor  of  Babylon,  the  King  of 
Sumer  and  Akkad,  who  caused  Babylon  to  be  inhabited, 
who  built  Esagila,  who  restored  the  shrines  of  all  the  cities, 
who  set  up  decorations  within  them,  and  re-established 
their  daily  sacrifices  which  had  ceased;  the  grandson  of 
Sennacherib,  the  great  king,  the  mighty  king,  the  king 
of  the  universe,  the  King  of  Assyria. 

During  my  reign  the  great  lord  Marduk  entered  with 
rejoicing  into  Babylon,  and  established  his  dwelling  in 
Esagila  forever.  I  re-established  the  daily  sacrifices  of 
Esagila  and  of  the  gods  of  Babylon.  I  strengthened  law 
and  order  in  Babylon  in  order  that  the  strong  might  not 
injure  the  weak.  I  appointed  Shamash-shum-ukin,  my 
twin-brother,  to  the  kingship  of  Babylon,  and  I  completed 
the  work  of  Esagila  which  was  unfinished.  I  adorned 
Esagila  with  silver,  gold,  and  precious  stones,  and  made 
it  shine  like  the  starry  heavens.  I  repaired  the  damages 
of  Ekua  and  all  the  shrines.  I  exercised  protection  over 
all  the  cities. 

In  those  days  I  sought  out  the  sanctuaries  of  E-bab- 
bara,  which  is  in  Sippara,  the  house  of  Shamash,  the  great 
lord,  my  lord,  which  had  become  old,  and  had  fallen  in,  and 


I30 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


had  gone  to  ruin,  and  I  had  it  built  anew  with  brick-work, 
and  I  raised  its  head  aloft  like  a  mountain. 

May  the  great  judge  of  the  gods,  the  great  lord,  my 
lord,  forever  look  with  joy  upon  my  pious  deeds,  and  for 
me,  Ashurbanipal,  King  of  Assyria,  the  prince  who  wor- 
ships him,  may  he  decree  length  of  days,  abundance  of 
offspring,  health  of  body,  and  joy  of  heart!  And  as  for 
Shamash-shum-ukin,  King  of  Babylon,  my  twin-brother, 
may  he  live  long  and  be  satisfied  with  renown! 

Whenever  in  the  future  that  work  may  fall  into  ruin, 
may  the  later  prince,  in  the  course  of  whose  reign  (it  may 
happen),  repair  its  ruins;  may  he  inscribe  my  name  along 
with  his  own  name;  may  he  see  my  inscription,  anoint  it 
with  oil,  ofifer  a  sacrifice,  and  set  it  up  along  with  his  own 
inscription:  (then)  Shamash  will  hear  his  prayer.  Who- 
ever treacherously  obliterates  my  written  name  and  the 
name  of  my  twin-brother,  and  does  not  inscribe  my  name 
along  with  his  own  name,  but  destroys  my  inscription,  and 
does  not  set  it  up  along  with  his  own  inscription — upon 
him  may  Shamash,  god  of  the  upper  and  lower  regions, 
look  with  anger,  and  may  he  destroy  his  name  and  his  seed 
from  the  earth! 


INSCRIPTION    OF    SHAMASH-SHUM- 
UKIN 

Shamash-shum-ukin,  the  mighty  king.  King  of  Ab- 
na-nu.  King  of  Babylon,  the  wise,  the  prudent  one,  the 
shepherd,  the  favoured  one  of  Bel,  Shamash,  and  Marduk, 
the  King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  am  I. 

In  my  birthplace  where  my  mother  bare  me,  Erua, 
queen  of  the  gods,  joyfully  named  me  for  dominion  over 
men.  The  great  gods  with  joy  selected  me  for  the  gather- 
ing of  the  scattered  people  of  the  land  of  Akkad,  and  with 
delight  called  me  to  restore  the  neglected  laws  and  ordi- 
nances. 


INSCRIPTION   OF   NABOPOLASSAR 


131 


Marduk,  king  of  the  gods,  joyfully  accompanied  me 
from  Asshur  to  the  seat  of  life.  The  great  lord,  the  warrior 
Marduk,  joyfully  established  his  splendid  dwelling  in  Esa- 
gila,  the  temple  of  heaven  and  earth.  As  for  the  great 
gods  who  inhabit  the  shrines  of  all  the  temples,  I  re- 
stored the  precious  laws  and  the  ordinances  dear  to  their 
hearts. 

At  that  time  I  rebuilt  the  collapsed  wall  Bar-ul-ru-sa-a, 
the  wall  of  Sippara,  which  had  become  weak  and  had  fallen 
on  account  of  the  attack  of  the  enemy,  and  I  strengthened 
its  weak  places,  and  its  battlements  like  a  mountain  I  raised 
on  high  with  earth. 

Throughout  the  future,  do  thou,  Shamash,  heroic  war- 
rior, and  thou,  O  Anunit,  his  consort,  look  with  pleasure 
on  my  pious  deeds  and  proclaim  wherever  you  are  wor- 
shipped that  I,  Shamash-shum-ukin,  shall  receive  favour! 


INSCRIPTION  OF  NABOPOLASSAR,  KING 
OF  BABYLON  (Hilprecht),  (625-604  b.  c.) 

To  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  lord  of  the  gods,  the  pow- 
erful, patron  of  the  Igigi,  oppressor  of  the  Anunnaki,  light 
of  the  gods,  his  fathers,  who  dwells  in  Esagila,  lord  of 
Babylon,  my  lord — Nabopolassar,  governor  of  Babylon, 
King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  the  lofty  prince,  who  is  under 
the  guidance  of  Nabu  and  Marduk,  the  humble,  the  sub- 
missive, whose  heart  has  learned  the  fear  of  god  and  god- 
dess, the  restorer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  one  who  looks 
after  the  rights  (?)  (temple  dues  (?))  of  the  great  gods, 
am  I. 

When  at  the  command  of  Nabu  and  Marduk,  beloved 
of  my  royalty,  and  by  the  strong  weapon  of  the  powerful 
Dibbara  who  strikes  my  enemies  with  lightning,  I  de- 
stroyed the  Subare  (and)  turned  their  land  into  mounds 
and  plough-land;  at  that  time,  as  for  Etemenanki,  the 
temple-tower  of  Babylon,  which  before  my  time  had  be- 


132        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

come  weakened  and  had  fallen  in,  Marduk  the  lord  com- 
manded me  to  lay  its  foundation  in  the  heart  of  the  earth 
(and)  to  raise  its  turrets  to  heaven.  Baskets,  spades  (?), 
and  U.RU.  I  made  out  of  ivory,  ushu  and  mismakanna 
wood;  I  caused  the  numerous  workmen  assembled  in  my 
land  to  carry  them.  I  set  to  work  (?);  I  made  bricks,  I 
manufactured  burned  bricks.  Like  the  downpour  of 
heaven,  which  can  not  be  measured,  like  the  massive  flood, 
I  caused  the  Arahtu  to  carry  bitumen  and  pitch.  With 
the  co-operation  of  Ea,  with  the  insight  of  Marduk,  with 
the  wisdom  of  Nabu  and  Nisaba,  in  the  broad  understand- 
ing with  which  the  god,  my  creator,  had  endowed  me,  with 
my  great  ingenuity  (?),  I  came  to  a  decision;  I  gave  orders 
to  the  skilled  workmen.  With  a  nindanaku  measure  I  meas- 
ured the  measurements  of  the  aba  ash-lam  (?).  The  archi- 
tects at  first  made  a  survey  of  the  ground  plot  (?).  After- 
ward I  consulted  Shamash,  Ramman,  and  Marduk;  to  my 
heart  they  gave  decision,  they  sanctioned  the  measurements, 
the  great  gods  by  decree  indicated  the  later  stages  of  the 
work.  By  means  of  exorcism,  in  the  wisdom  of  Ea  and  Mar- 
duk, I  cleared  away  that  place,  (and)  on  the  original  site  I 
laid  its  platform-foundation;  gold,  silver,  stones  from  moun- 
tain and  sea  in  its  foundation  I  set  *  *  *  goodly  oil,  sweet- 
smelling  herbs,  and  *  *  *  I  placed  underneath  the  bricks. 
An  image  of  my  royalty  carrying  a  dupshikku  I  con- 
structed; in  the  platform-foundation  I  placed  it.  Unto 
Marduk,  my  lord,  I  bowed  my  neck;  I  arrayed  myself  in 
my  gown,  the  robe  of  my  royalty.  Bricks  and  mortar  I 
carried  on  my  head,  a  dupshikku  of  gold  and  silver  I  wore; 
and  Nebuchadrezzar,  the  first-bom,  the  chief  son,  beloved 
of  my  heart,  I  caused  to  carry  mortar  mixed  with  wine, 
oil,  and  (other)  products  along  with  my  workmen.  Nabu- 
shumlisher,  his  twin  brother,  the  offspring  of  my  own  flesh, 
the  junior,  my  darling,  I  ordered  to  take  a  basket  and 
spade  (?);  a  dupshikku  of  gold  and  silver  I  placed  (on  him). 
Unto  Marduk,  my  lord,  as  a  gift,  I  dedicated  him.  I  built 
the  temple  in  front  of  Esharra  with  joy  and  rejoicing, 
and  like  a  mountain  I  raised  its  tower  aloft;  to  Marduk, 


INSCRIPTION   OF   NABOPOLASSAR 


133 


my  lord,  as  in  days  of  old^  I  dedicated  it  for  a  sight  to  be 
gazed  at. 

O  Marduk,  my  lord,  look  with  favour  upon  my  goodly 
deeds! 

At  thy  exalted  command,  which  can  not  be  altered,  let 
the  performance  of  my  hands  endure  forever! 

Like  the  bricks  of  Etemenanki,  which  are  to  remain 
firm  forever,  do  thou  establish  the  foundation  of  my  throne 
for  all  time! 

O  Etemenanki,  grant  blessing  to  the  king  who  has  re- 
stored thee! 

When  Marduk  with  joy  takes  up  his  abode  in  thee, 

O  temple,  recall  to  Marduk,  my  lord,  my  gracious 
deeds! 


INSCRIPTION   OF   NABOPOLASSAR 

(WiNCKLER  A) 

NABOPOLASSAR,  the  King  of  Babylon,  under  the  guid- 
ance of  Nabu  and  Marduk,  am  I. 

When  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  by  his  supreme  com- 
mand, commissioned  me  to  restore  the  cities  and  repair  the 
temples — at  that  time,  the  river  Euphrates  had  receded 
from  Sippar,  the  splendid  city,  beloved  of  Shamash  and  A, 
and  the  waters  were  far  (?)  too  distant  for  the  service  (?)  of 
their  lordships. 

I,  Nabopolassar,  the  humble,  the  submissive,  who  wor- 
ships the  gods,  brought  back  (by  digging)  the  river  Eu- 
phrates (in  its  original  channel)  to  Sippar;  and  I  pro- 
vided pure  waters  in  abundance  for  Shamash,  my  lord.  I 
walled  up  the  banks  of  that  river  with  mortar  and 
brick,  and  I  constructed  a  protecting  wall  for  Shamash, 
my  lord. 


134       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

INSCRIPTION   OF  NABOPOLASSAR 

(WiNCKLER   B) 

Nabopolassar,  the  powerful  king,  King  of  Babylon, 
King  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  founder  of  the  land,  the  exalted 
prince,  under  the  guidance  of  Nabu  and  Marduk,  the  fa- 
vourite of  Shamash,  beloved  of  A,  the  hero  of  heroes, 
whom  the  powerful  Dibbara  lets  attain  his  every  desire,  the 
humble,  the  submissive,  who  has  a  care  for  the  rights  (?) 
(temple  dues?)  of  the  great  gods,  the  king,  whose  works 
surpass  those  of  the  kings  his  fathers,  am  I. 

At  the  time  that  Shamash  the  great  lord  walked  at  my 
side,  and  I  destroyed  the  [rebellious,  (and)  turned  the  land 
of  my  foes  into  mounds  and  plough-land],  at  that  time  I 
rebuilt  for  the  mistress  of  Sippar,  the  exalted  princess,  my 
mistress,  E-edin-na,  a  temple  wherein  she  might  find  peace 
of  mind,  and  I  made  it  brilliant  as  the  day. 

In  the  future,  O  mistress  of  Sippar,  powerful  mistress, 
when  I  have  brought  this  temple  to  a  state  of  completion, 
and  thou  hast  taken  up  thy  dwelling  therein,  do  thou  estab- 
lish me,  Nabopolassar,  the  king,  thy  restorer,  forever  like 
the  bricks  of  Sippar  and  Babylon;  and  do  thou  permit  my 
sovereignty  to  last  into  far  future  days! 

THE  EAST   INDIA  HOUSE   INSCRIPTION 

OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR  II,  KING 

OF   BABYLON   (601-565  b.  c.) 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  exalted 
prince,  the  favourite  of  Marduk,  the  lofty  patesi,  the  be- 
loved of  Nabu,  the  arbiter,  the  possessor  of  wisdom,  who 
seeks  out  the  path  of  their  divinity,  who  reverences  their 
lordship;  the  untiring  governor,  who  ponders  daily  con- 
cerning the  maintenance  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  and  is  con- 
tinually anxious  for  the  shrines  of  Babylon  and  Borsippa; 
the  wise,  the  pious,  the  maintainer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida, 
the  chief  son  of  Nabopolassar,  King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 


EAST   INDIA   HOUSE   INSCRIPTION 


I3S 


From  the  time  that  the  lord  my  god,  Marduk,  had  cre- 
ated me  and  had  formed  my  embryo  in  the  womb,  at  the 
time  I  was  born,  at  the  time  I  was  created,  I  sought  out 
the  shrines  of  the  god,  the  path  of  the  god  I  followed. 
As  for  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  the  god  my  creator,  his 
clever  deeds  I  held  in  high  esteem.  As  for  Nabu,  his 
true  son,  the  beloved  of  my  royalty,  the  lofty  path  of  his 
divinity  I  steadfastly  followed;  with  all  my  faithful  heart 
I  loved  the  worship  of  their  divinity,  I  reverenced  their 
lordship. 

At  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  lifted  up  my 
royal  head  and  intrusted  me  with  the  rule  of  all  people;  and 
Nabu,  the  ruler  of  the  host  of  heaven  and  earth,  gave  into 
my  hands  a  righteous  sceptre  for  the  governing  of  the  peo- 
ple; then,  as  for  me,  I  stood  in  awe  of  them  and  sought 
out  their  divinity,  for  the  renown  of  their  famous  name  I 
reverenced  both  god  and  goddess.  To  Marduk  my  lord 
I  made  supplication;  I  read  his  prayers,  and  the  word  of 
my  heart  reached  up  to  him.  To  him  I  spoke: 
"  O  eternal  prince!     Lord  of  all  being! 

To  the  king  whom  thou  lovest,  and 

Whose  name  thou  hast  proclaimed 

As  was  pleasing  to  thee. 

Do  thou  lead  aright  his  name. 

Guide  him  in  a  straight  path. 

I  am  the  prince,  thy  favourite, 

The  creature  of  thy  hand; 

Thou  hast  created  me,  and 

With  dominion  over  all  people 

Thou  hast  intrusted  me. 

According  to  thy  favour,  O  lord, 

Which  thou  dost  bestow  on 

All  people, 

Cause  me  to  love  thy  exalted  lordship, 

And  create  in  my  heart 

The  worship  of  thy  divinity. 

And  grant  whatever  is  pleasing  to  thee. 

Because  thou  hast  fashioned  my  life." 


136        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

He,  the  pre-eminent,  the  honoured,  the  leader  of  the 
gods,  the  Prince  Marduk,  heard  my  supplication  and  re- 
ceived my  prayer.  He  made  his  exalted  lordship  favour- 
able to  me,  the  fear  of  his  divinity  he  established  in  my 
heart,  he  incited  my  heart  to  do  his  service.  I  reverenced 
his  lordship.  Under  his  exalted  protection,  far-off  lands, 
distant  mountains,  from  the  Upper  Sea  to  the  Lower  Sea, 
steep  trails,  unopened  paths,  where  motion  was  impeded, 
where  there  was  no  foothold,  difficult  roads,  journeys  with- 
out water,  I  traversed,  and  the  unruly  I  overthrew;  I 
bound  as  captives  my  enemies;  the  land  I  set  in  order  and 
the  people  I  made  to  prosper;  both  bad  and  good  among 
the  people  I  took  under  my  care  (?);  silver,  gold,  costly 
precious  stones,  bronze,  palm-wood,  cedar-wood,  all  kinds 
of  precious  things,  a  rich  abundance,  the  product  of  the 
mountains,  the  wealth  of  the  seas,  a  heavy  gift,  a  splendid 
present,  to  my  city  Babylon  I  brought  into  his  presence, 
and  I  undertook  restorations  in  Esagila,  the  palace  of  his 
lordship. 

E-kua,  the  shrine  of  the  lord  of  the  gods,  Marduk,  I 
made  to  glisten  like  the  sun;  its  walls  (?),  with  massive 
gold  like  imtu-stone,  with  ugnu-stone  and  alabaster  (?) — 
the  abode  of  the  house — I  decorated.  The  gate  Hili-shud, 
the  gate  of  splendour,  and  the  gate  of  Ezida  and  Esagila  I 
made  as  brilliant  as  the  sun.  The  brilliant  abode,  the  seat 
of  the  arbiters  of  fate,  which  is  the  place  of  congregation, 
the  shrine  of  the  Fates,  where,  on  Zagmuku,  the  beginning 
of  the  year,  on  the  eighth  and  the  eleventh  day,  the  king, 
the  god  of  heaven  and  earth,  the  lord  of  heaven,  takes  up 
his  residence,  where  the  gods  of  heaven  and  earth  reverently 
pay  obedience  and  stand  bowed  down  before  him;  a  fate 
of  a  far-distant  day,  as  the  fate  of  my  life,  they  determine 
therein:  that  shrine,  the  shrine  of  royalty,  the  shrine  of 
lordly  power,  belonging  to  the  leader  of  the  gods,  the 
Prince  Marduk,  which  a  former  king  had  constructed  with 
silver,  I  decorated  with  shining  gold  and  brilliant  orna- 
ments. The  vessels  of  the  Temple  of  Esagila,  with  massive 
gold,  Ma-kua  (the  ship  of  peace)  with  bright  metals  and 


EAST   INDIA   HOUSE   INSCRIPTION 


137 


precious  stones  I  adorned  like  the  stars  of  the  heavens. 
The  temples  of  Babylon  I  rebuilt  and  restored.  As  for 
E-temen-an-ki  (house  of  the  foundation  of  heaven  and 
earth)  with  burned  brick  and  bright  ugnu-stone  I  raised 
on  high  its  turrets.  To  the  rebuilding  of  Esagila  my  heart 
incited  me;  I  held  it  constantly  in  mind.  I  selected  the 
best  of  my  cedar  trees,  which  I  had  brought  from  Mount 
Lebanon,  the  snow-capped  forest,  for  the  roofing  of  E-kua, 
the  shrine  of  his  lordship,  and  I  decorated  with  brilliant 
gold  the  inner  sides  of  the  mighty  cedar  trunks,  used  in 
the  roofing  of  E-kua.  I  adorned  the  under  side  of  the 
roof  of  cedar  with  gold  and  precious  stones.  Concerning 
the  rebuilding  of  Esagila  I  prayed  every  morning  to  the 
king  of  the  gods,  the  lord  of  lords. 

Borsippa,  the  city  of  his  abode,  I  beautified.  Ezida, 
the  eternal  house,  in  the  midst  thereof  I  built.  With  silver, 
gold,  precious  stones,  bronze,  palm-wood,  and  cedar-wood 
I  completed  its  construction.  The  cedar-wood  of  the  roof 
of  the  shrines  of  Nabu  I  decorated  with  gold.  The  cedar- 
wood  of  the  roof  of  the  gate  of  Nana  I  decorated  with 
shining  silver.  The  wild-bulls  and  the  doors  of  the  gate 
of  the  shrine,  the  lintels,  the  bars,  the  bolt  (?),  and  the  lock 
I  adorned  with  bright  metal;  and  the  cedar-wood  of  the 
roof,  its  eaves  (?),  I  adorned  with  silver.  The  path  to  the 
shrine  and  the  way  to  the  temple  were  inclosed  with  esh- 
maru-metal;  the  rooms  of  the  shrines  in  its  midst  were  sil- 
ver-work; the  wild-bulls  and  the  doors  of  the  gates  I  made 
to  shine  brightly  with  za-ha-li-e  metal.  I  adorned  the  tem- 
ple with  ornaments,  I  filled  it  with  splendour  for  the  aston- 
ished gaze  (of  all  people).  The  shrines  of  Borsippa  I  re- 
built and  restored.  As  for  E-ur-VII-an-ki  (the  house 
of  the  seven  spheres  of  heaven  and  earth)  with  burned 
brick  and  bright  ugnu-stone  I  raised  on  high  its  turrets. 
The  ship  (ark)  of  the  river  Gan-ul,  the  conveyance  of  his 
highness,  the  ship  of  the  procession  of  Zagmuku — a  festival 
of  Babylon — ^its  hull  and  its  inner  compartment's  I  deco- 
rated with  rows  of  marble  and  (precious)  stones. 

E-sigisshe-sigisshe,  the  exalted  festival-place  of  the  lord 


138        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

of  the  gods  Marduk,  the  promoter  of  merriment  and  rejoic- 
ings among  the  Igigi  and  the  Anunnaki,  I  constructed 
mountain-high  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  on  the  walls 
of  Babylon.  E-mah,  the  Temple  of  the  Lady  of  the  Moun- 
tain, in  the  heart  of  Babylon,  for  the  lofty  goddess,  the 
mother  who  bore  me,  I  built  in  Babylon.  For  Nabu,  the 
exalted  messenger,  who  gives  the  righteous  sceptre  for 
the  government  of  all  peoples,  E-pad(?)-kalama-shumma, 
his  temple,  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  I  constructed 
in  Babylon.  For  Sin,  who  looks  with  favour  upon  my 
forces,  E-gish-shir-gal,  his  temple,  I  built  in  Babylon.  For 
Shamash,  the  exalted  judge  *  *  *  E-di-tar-kalama,  his 
temple,  I  built  very  high  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick 
in  Babylon.  For  Ramman,  who  establishes  abundance  in 
my  land,  E-nam-hi,  his  temple,  I  built  in  Babylon.  For 
Gula,  who  spares  and  protects  my  life,  E-sa-be  and  E-har- 
sag-el-la,  her  temples,  I  built  artistically  with  bitumen  and 
burned  brick  in  Babylon.  For  Nin-lil-an-na  (the  lady  of 
heaven),  the  lady  who  loves  me,  E-dur(?)-garza,  her  temple, 
I  built  very  high  at  the  side  of  the  wall  of  Babylon.  For 
Tur-e,  who  breaks  in  pieces  the  weapons  of  my  enemies,  his 
temple  I  built  in  Borsippa.  For  Gula,  the  lady  who  makes 
me  of  good  cheer,  E-gfula,  E-ti-la,  and  E-zi-ba-ti-la,  her 
three  shrines,  I  built  in  Borsippa.  For  Ramman,  who  rains 
down  showers  of  plenty  upon  my  land,  his  temple  I  built 
artistically  in  Borsippa.  For  Sin,  who  burdens  himself 
with  my  welfare,  E-dim-an-na,  his  temple,  I  built  with  bril- 
liancy on  the  wall  round  about  Ezida. 

Imgur-Bel  and  Nimitti-Bel,  the  large  walls  of  Babylon 
which  Nabopolassar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  father,  my  be- 
getter, had  made,  but  had  not  completed  their  construc- 
tion— ^their  moat  he  had  dug,  and  by  means  of  two  strong 
walls  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  he  had  strengthened 
their  banks;  a  wall  along  the  Arahtu  canal  he  had  made, 
and  with  the  dike  of  burned  brick  on  the  other  side  of 
the  Euphrates  he  had  joined  it,  but  had  not  completed  the 
rest.  From  Du-azag-ki-nam-tar-tar-re-e-ne,  the  shrine  of 
Fates,  as  far  as  A-ibur-shabu(m),  the  street  of  Babylon,  in 


EAST   INDIA   HOUSE   INSCRIPTION  139 

front  of  the  Gate  of  the  Lady,  I  constructed  a  way  with 
brick  and  tur-mi-na-tur-da  stone  as  a  procession  street  for 
the  great  lord  Marduk.  As  for  me,  his  first-bom  son,  the 
beloved  of  his  heart,  Imgur-Bel  and  Nimitti-Bel,  the  great 
walls  of  Babylon,  I  completed.  The  sides  of  the  wall  of  its 
moat,  two  strong  walls,  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  I 
built,  and  to  the  wall  which  my  father  had  strengthened 
I  joined  it,  and  I  surrounded  the  city  for  its  protection 
with  a  wall  of  burned  brick  toward  the  east,  and  I  con- 
structed a  wall  about  Babylon.  A-ibur-shabu(m),  the 
street  of  Babylon,  I  filled  in  with  a  high  terrace  as  a  pro- 
cession street  for  the  great  lord  Marduk,  and  partly  with 
brick  and  tur-mi-na-tur-da  stone,  partly  with  brick  and 
stone  from  the  mountain,  A-ibur-shabu,  from  Bab-Ella  (the 
shining  gate)  as  far  as  Nana-sakipat-tebisha,  I  macadamized 
for  a  procession  street  of  his  divinity;  I  joined  it  to  what 
my  father  had  built,  and  I  constructed  the  boulevard  Nana- 
sakipat-tebisha. 

The  entrances  of  the  city  gates  on  both  sides  of  Imgur- 
Bel  and  Nimitti-Bel,  on  account  of  the  filling  in  of  the 
street  of  Babylon,  had  become  too  low,  and  I  tore  down 
these  gates  and  at  the  water's  edge  I  firmly  laid  their 
foundation  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick,  and  with 
burned  brick  and  brilliant  ugnu-stone,  out  of  which  the 
wild-bulls  and  the  serpents  are  constructed,  skilfully  I 
built  them.  I  laid  in  rows  mighty  cedar  trees  for  their 
roof.  I  set  in  place  in  their  gates  the  cedar  doors,  with 
a  sheathing  of  copper,  the  thresholds  and  the  hinges, 
made  of  bronze.  I  stationed  at  their  thresholds  strong 
wild-bulls  of  bronze  and  serpents  standing  erect.  I  filled 
with  splendour  these  city  gates  for  the  astonished  gaze 
(of  all  people).  That  the  shaft  of  battle  might  not 
reach  Imgur-Bel,  the  wall  of  Babylon — ^what  no  former 
king  had  done — for  four  thousand  land  cubits  on  the  sides 
of  Babylon,  afar  off,  to  make  approach  impossible,  I  sur- 
rounded Babylon  with  a  large  wall  toward  the  east.  I  dug 
its  moat  and  strengthened  its  bank  with  bitumen  and 
burned  brick,  and  built  a  strong  wall  on  its  bank  mountain- 


I40        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

high.  Its  wide  city  gates  I  put  in  position,  and  the  doors 
of  cedar,  with  a  sheathing  of  copper,  I  set  in  place.  That  a 
terrible  enemy  might  not  push  forward  to  the  sides  of  Baby- 
lon, I  surrounded  the  land  with  large  bodies  of  water,  like 
the  volume  of  the  sea;  and  that  the  plying  (of  ships) 
as  on  the  raging  sea  or  the  briny  g^lf  might  not  bring 
about  a  breach  in  their  banks,  I  threw  up  against  them  a 
levee  of  mud,  and  surrounded  them  with  a  wall  of  burned 
brick.  I  skilfully  strengthened  the  watch-tower,  and  made 
the  city  Babylon  a  fortification.  Tabi-suburshu,  the  wall 
of  Borsippa,  I  built  anew;  I  dug  its  moat,  and  strengthened 
its  bank  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick. 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  whom  Marduk,  the 
great  lord,  called  to  look  after  the  welfare  of  his  city  Baby- 
lon, am  I.  Esagila  and  Ezida  I  made  as  brilliant  as  the 
sun.  The  shrines  of  the  great  gods  I  made  to  shine  like 
the  day.  In  former  times,  in  the  days  of  old,  down  to  the 
reign  of  Nabopolassar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  father,  my 
begetter,  the  numerous  kings,  my  predecessors,  whose 
names  the  god  had  called  to  sovereignty,  in  their  well-be- 
loved cities  which  they  loved,  had  built  palaces,  taken  up 
their  residences,  collected  their  possessions  therein,  gath- 
ered together  their  property,  and  on  the  festival  of  Zag- 
muku,  the  procession  of  the  lord  of  the  gods,  Marduk,  had 
entered  Babylon.  From  the  time  that  Marduk  created  me  to 
sovereignty,  and  Nabu,  his  eternal  son,  gave  me  rule  over 
his  subjects,  like  my  precious  soul  I  loved  their  shining 
presence.  With  the  exception  of  Babylon  and  Borsippa 
I  did  not  adorn  a  single  city.  In  Babylon,  my  well-beloved 
city,  which  I  love,  the  palace,  a  house  for  the  astonished 
gaze  of  the  people,  a  meeting-place  for  the  land,  a  bril- 
liant chamber,  a  royal  residence,  in  Babylon  which  is  in 
Babylonia,  from  Img^r-Bel  as  far  as  Libil-hegalla,  the  east- 
ern canal,  from  the  bank  of  the  Euphrates  as  far  as  A-ibur- 
shabu — which  Nabopolassar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  father, 
my  begetter,  with  brick  had  constructed,  and  wherein  he 
had  taken  up  his  residence — on  account  of  the  waters  of 
a  flood  its  foundation  had  become  weak,  and  on  account  of 


EAST   INDIA   HOUSE   INSCRIPTION  141 

the  terracing  of  the  street  of  Babylon,  the  gates  of  this 
palace  had  become  too  low.  Its  wall,  made  of  brick,  I  tore 
down,  and  I  sought  out  its  platform  foundation,  and  the 
bottom  of  the  water  I  reached.  Its  foundation  at  the 
water's  edge  I  firmly  laid,  and  with  bitumen  and  burned 
brick  I  raised  it  mountain-high.  I  laid  in  rows  mighty 
cedar  trees  for  its  roof.  I  set  in  place  in  its  gates  the  cedar 
doors,  with  a  sheathing  of  copper,  the  thresholds  and  the 
hinges,  made  of  bronze.  I  gathered  together  therein  sil- 
ver, gold,  precious  stones,  all  kinds  of  precious  and  valuable 
things,  possessions,  property,  the  insignia  of  my  exalted 
position.  I  collected  within  it  the  results  of  my  splendid 
bravery,  a  royal  treasure.  Because  my  heart  did  not  love 
the  abode  of  my  royalty  in  another  city,  in  no  human 
habitation  did  I  build  a  residence  for  my  lordship.  Prop- 
erty, the  insignia  of  royalty,  I  did  not  establish  anywhere 
else.  In  Babylon  a  chamber  for  my  dwelling-place,  as  be- 
fitted my  royalty,  was  not  to  be  found.  Because  the  fear 
of  Marduk,  my  lord,  was  in  my  heart,  in  Babylon,  his  treas- 
ure city,  in  order  to  enlarge  my  royal  residence,  his  street 
I  did  not  change,  his  shrine  I  did  not  impair,  his  canal  I 
did  not  dam  up,  his  chamber  I  kept  constantly  (?)  in 
mind. 

That  the  shaft  of  battle  might  not  reach  Imgur-Bel, 
the  wall  of  Babylon,  at  a  distance  of  four  hundred  and 
ninety  land  cubits  on  the  sides  of  Nimitti-Bel,  the  outer  wall 
of  Babylon,  for  the  protection  of  the  two  large  walls,  with 
bitumen  and  burned  brick  I  built  a  wall  mountain-high, 
and  between  them  I  built  a  structure  of  burned  brick,  and 
I  built  very  high  in  its  tower  a  large  chamber  with  bitumen 
and  burned  brick  for  my  royal  dwelling-place,  and  joined 
it  to  my  father's  palace,  and  in  a  prosperous  month,  on  a 
favourable  day,  I  firmly  laid  its  foundation  in  the  bowels 
of  the  earth,  and  I  raised  high  its  turrets  like  a  mountain. 
On  the  fifteenth  day  I  brought  to  completion  its  construc- 
tion, and  I  beautified  the  dwelling  of  my  lordship.  Mighty 
cedar  trees  from  the  snow-capped  mountains,  ashuhu  trees 
with  broad  trunks,  and  cypress  trees,  (with)  costly  stones, 


142 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


I  laid  in  rows  for  its  roofing.  Doors  of  palm-wood,  of 
cedar,  and  of  cypress,  of  ushu  and  ivory,  inlaid  with  silver 
and  gold,  and  with  a  sheathing  of  copper,  the  thresholds  and 
hinges,  made  of  bronze,  I  set  in  place  in  its  gates.  I  sur- 
rounded its  turrets  with  a  cornice  of  ugnu-stone  and  threw 
around  it  mountain-high  a  strong  wall  with  bitumen  and 
burned  brick.  On  the  sides  of  the  wall  of  Babylon  I  built 
a  large  wall  out  of  large  blocks  of  stone,  such  as  are  found 
on  the  lofty  mountains,  and  like  a  mountain  I  raised  on 
high  its  battlements.  I  built  that  house  for  the  astonished 
gaze  (of  all  people),  and  for  the  spectacle  of  the  whole  world 
I  filled  it  with  splendour.  All  kinds  of  abundance,  the 
fear  of  the  brilliancy  of  my  royalty,  were  round  about 
its  sides,  and  that  the  wicked  and  the  perverse  might 
not  enter  it,  and  that  I  might  keep  afar  off  from  the  sides 
of  the  wall  of  Babylon  the  battle  shaft  of  the  terrible 
enemy,  I  fortified  the  city  Babylon  mountain-high.  To 
Marduk,  my  lord,  I  made  suppUcation,  I  lifted  up  my 
hands: 

0  Marduk,  lord,  leader  of  the  gods, 
Powerful  prince, 

Thou  hast  created  me,  and 
With  sovereignty  over  all  men 
Thou  hast  intrusted  me. 
Like  my  precious  soul 

1  love  thy  exalted  presence. 

With  the  exception  of  thy  city  Babylon 

In  no  human  habitation 

Have  I  adorned  a  city. 

As  I  love 

The  fear  of  thy  divinity. 

As  I  follow  in  the  path  of  thy  lordship. 

Look  with  favour  upon  the  lifting  up  of  my  hands, 

Give  ear  to  my  prayers. 

Truly  I  am  the  king,  the  restorer, 

Who  makes  cheerful  thy  heart, 

The  clever  governor. 

The  restorer  of  all  thy  cities. 


INSCRIPTION   OF   NEBUCHADREZZAR   II  143 

By  thy  command, 

O  merciful  Marduk, 

The  temple  which  I  have  built, 

May  it  endure  for  all  time,  and 

May  I  be  satisfied  with  its  splendour! 

In  its  midst 

May  I  attain  an  old  age, 

May  I  be  sated  with  offspring! 

Of  the  kings  of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world. 

Of  all  mankind. 

Their  heavy  tribute 

May  I  receive  therein! 

From  the  horizon  of  the  heaven  to  the  zenith. 

Toward  the  east. 

May  I  have  no  enemies. 

May  I  possess  no  foes, 

May  my  descendants  live  therein 

Forever,  and 

Rule  over  the  Black-headed  races! 


THE  WINCKLER   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR   II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  exalted 
prince,  the  favourite  of  Marduk,  the  lofty  patesi,  the  be- 
loved of  Nabu,  the  legitimate  shepherd,  who  enters  upon 
the  peaceful  path  of  Shamash  and  Ramman,  the  wise,  the 
circumspect,  who  is  attentive  to  the  wisdom  of  Nirra,  the 
potentate,  the  knowing  one,  the  judicious,  who  cares  for 
the  shrines  of  Zamama  and  Ishtar,  the  humble,  the  pliant, 
who  is  submissive  to  the  will  of  Marduk,  the  great  lord, 
and  of  Bel,  who  enlarges  his  dominion,  and  of  Nabu,  the 
lofty  messenger,  who  prolongs  the  days  of  his  life,  and  is 
their  obedient  servant,  the  untiring  governor,  the  restorer 
of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  *  *  *  of  restorations,  who 
brings  large  gifts  to  Esagila,  the  exalted,  the  suppliant,  the 


144       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

choice  of  the  loyal  heart  of  the  great  gods,  the  grave  ruler, 
the  reclaimer  of  fields,  who  looks  after  the  agricultural  in- 
terests of  Babylon,  who  fills  the  shrines  with  plenty,  who 
establishes  the  daily  offering,  the  chief  son  of  Nabopolassar, 
King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 

At  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  faithfully  cre- 
ated me,  and  commanded  me  with  pomp  to  lead  aright  the 
land,  to  shepherd  the  people,  to  restore  the  cities  and  to 
renew  the  shrines,  I  to  Marduk,  my  lord,  paid  reverent 
obedience.  In  Esagila,  the  majestic  shrine,  the  temple  of 
heaven  and  earth,  the  dwelling-place  of  royalty,  I  decorated 
with  shining  gold  E-kua,  the  shrine  of  the  lord  of  the  gods, 
Marduk,  Bab-Hili-shud,  the  home  of  ^arpanit,  (and)  Ezida 
in  Esagila,  the  shrine  called  "  the  king  of  the  gods  of  heaven 
and  earth,"  and  I  made  (them)  to  shine  like  the  day.  E- 
temen-an-ki,  the  temple-tower  of  Babylon,  I  made  anew. 
Ezida,  the  eternal  house,  beloved  by  Nabu,  in  Borsippa 
anew  I  built  and  made  it  bright  as  the  starry  heavens  with 
gold  and  precious  stones.  Mighty  cedar  trees  I  decorated 
with  gold,  and  for  the  roofing  over  of  E-mah-tila,  the  shrine 
of  Nabu  *  *  *  I  laid  in  rows.  E-mah,  the  Temple  of  Nin- 
mah,  in  Babylon;  E-pad(?)-kalama-shumma,  the  Temple  of 
Nabu-sha-hariri;  E-gish-shir-gal,  the  Temple  of  Sin;  E-har- 
sag-el-la,  the  Temple  of  Nin-karrak;  E-nam-hi,  the  Temple 
of  Ramman  in  Kumari;  E-di-tar-kalama,  the  Temple  of 
Shamash;  E-ki-tur-garza,  the  Temple  of  Nin-lil-an-na  by 
the  side  of  the  wall  in  Babylon,  (these)  anew  I  built,  and 
their  turrets  I  raised  on  high.  The  great  gods  who  dwell 
therein  I  gave  residence  within  them. 

As  for  Babylon,  the  city  of  the  great  lord,  Marduk,  his 
renowned  city,  Imgur-Bel  and  Nimitti-Bel,  its  great  walls, 
I  completed.  At  the  entrances  of  its  city-gates,  I  built  and 
stationed  strong  wild-bulls  of  bronze,  and  serpents  standing 
erect,  and,  what  no  former  king  had  done — ^the  father,  my 
begetter,  had  thrown  around  the  city  the  wall  of  its  moat 
with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  a  second  time — ^these 
mighty  walls  for  the  third  time,  the  first  (joined)  with  the 
second,  I  built  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick,  and  joined 


INSCRIPTION  OF   NEBUCHADREZZAR  II 


HS 


them  to  the  wall  which  my  father  had  constructed,  and  laid 
their  foundation  in  the  bosom  of  the  broad  earth,  and  raised 
their  battlements  mountain-high.  An  embankment  of 
burned  brick  toward  the  east  I  threw  around  the  wall  of 
Babylon. 

The  embankment  of  the  Arahtu  toward  the  east,  from 
the  city-gate  Ishtar  to  the  city-gate  Urash,  the  father,  my 
begetter,  had  constructed  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick, 
had  bound  to  the  fences  (?)  of  burned  brick  along  the  Eu- 
phrates, but  had  not  completed  the  rest.  I,  his  eldest  son, 
the  beloved  of  his  heart,  built  the  embankment  of  the 
Arahtu  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick,  and  strengthened 
it  with  the  embankment  which  my  father  had  constructed. 

For  the  protection  of  Esagila  and  Babylon,  that  there 
might  not  be  a  breach  in  (the  bank  of)  the  Euphrates,  I 
made  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  a  mighty  dike  in  the 
river.  I  laid  its  foundation  in  the  depths,  and  raised  its 
battlements  mountain-high.  At  four  thousand  cubits'  dis- 
tance, that  the  sides  of  the  city  might  not  be  approached 
from  afar — what  no  king  before  me  had  done — I  threw 
around  Babylon  a  mighty  wall  toward  the  east.  Its  moat 
I  dug,  and  the  bottom  of  the  water  I  reached.  I  built  its 
bank  (?)  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick,  and  joined  it  to 
the  embankment  which  my  father  had  constructed,  and 
built  along  its  bank  a  mighty  wall  with  bitumen  and  burned 
brick  mountain-high. 

Tabi-suburshu,  the  wall  of  Borsippa,  I  made  anew.  The 
wall  of  its  moat  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  I  threw 
around  the  city  for  protection.  For  Tur-e,  the  lord  who 
breaks  in  pieces  the  weapons  of  my  enemies,  his  temple  in 
Borsippa  anew  I  made.  For  Gula,  rich  in  life,  who  pre- 
serves my  life,  who  dwells  in  E-ti-la,  E-ti-la,  her  temple,  I 
built  anew  in  Borsippa.  For  Gula,  the  exalted  princess,  who 
extends  the  fame  of  my  kingdom,  who  dwells  in  E-gula, 
E-gula,  her  temple,  I  built  anew  in  Borsippa.  For  Gula, 
the  great  lady,  who  gives  life  to  my  soul,  who  dwells  in 
E-zi-ba-ti-la,  E-zi-ba-ti-la,  her  temple,  I  built  anew  in  Bor- 
sippa.    To  strengthen  the  defence  of  E-shid-lam,  a  wall 


146        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

round  about  E-shid-lam  I  built  anew,  and  the  buildings 
thereof  *  *  *  as  of  old.  The  wall  of  the  moat  of  Kutha 
with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  I  threw  around  the  city  for 
protection.  E-babbara,  the  Temple  of  Shamash  in  Sippar; 
E-tur-gina,  the  Temple  of  Shar-qarbi  (?)  in  Baz;  E-i-de-A- 
nim,  the  Temple  of  Urash  in  Dilbat;  E-shi-kalama,  the 
Temple  of  Lugal-Maradda  in  Maradda;  E-an-na,  the  Tem- 
ple of  Ishtar  in  Erech;  E-babbara,  the  Temple  of  Shamash 
in  Larsa;  E-gish-shir-gal,  the  Temple  of  Sin  in  Ur — ^these 
shrines  of  the  great  gods  anew  I  built,  and  brought  their 
construction  to  completion.  The  great  gods  who  dwell 
therein  with  joy  and  rejoicing  I  gave  residence  within  them. 

The  restorations  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  and  the  reno- 
vation of  Babylon  and  Borsippa,  which  I  had  carried  on  to 
a  further  extent  than  ever  before,  I  brought  to  the  highest 
stage  of  completion.  The  restoring  of  the  shrines  of  the 
great  gods,  which  I  had  performed  more  splendidly  than 
the  kings,  my  fathers,  all  my  extensive  undertakings,  I  in- 
scribed on  a  tablet,  and  put  away  for  all  time  to  come.  All 
my  undertakings,  which  I  inscribed  on  the  tablet,  may  the 
wise  consider,  and  may  they  bethink  themselves  of  the 
majesty  due  to  the  god!  The  building  of  the  cities  for  gods 
and  goddesses,  with  which  the  great  lord,  Marduk,  had 
charged  me,  and  to  which  he  had  incited  my  heart,  rever- 
ently I  did  not  cease  until  I  finished  their  construction. 

At  that  time  E-ul-la,  the  Temple  of  Nin-karrak,  in  Sip- 
par — ^which  from  time  immemorial  and  for  years  long  gone 
by  had  not  been  kept  in  order,  whose  walls  had  fallen  into 
decay,  and  whose  site  was  no  longer  recognisable,  being 
covered  with  earth — was  not  reckoned  among  the  shrines 
of  the  gods;  its  revenues  had  been  withheld  because  they 
had  not  been  arranged  for;  its  free-will  offerings  had 
ceased.  Because  I  seized  the  garment  of  Marduk,  my 
lord,  Marduk,  my  lord,  loved  me  and  intrusted  me  with  the 
renewing  of  shrines  and  the  rebuilding  of  ruins.  Because 
of  my  faithful  reign,  Marduk,  the  merciful  one,  bestowed 
favour  upon  that  temple,  and  Shamash,  the  lofty  judge, 
commanded  its  renovation.     Me,  the  shepherd  who  fears 


INSCRIPTION  OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR  II 


147 


them,  they  gave  orders  to  rebuild  it.  I  sought  and 
searched  out  its  ancient  platform  foundation;  the  mention 
of  the  name  of  "  Nin-karrak  who  dwells  in  E-ul-la  "  was 
written  on  it  and  was  found  therein.  Upon  its  ancient  plat- 
form foundation  I  laid  its  foundation,  and  for  Nin-karrak, 
the  mistress  who  loves  me  and  who  protects  my  life  and 
grants  safety  to  my  descendants,  E-ul-la,  her  temple,  I  built 
anew  in  Sippar.  I  made  its  revenues  to  abound,  and  estab- 
lished its  free-will  offerings. 

O  Nin-karrak,  lofty  mistress, 

Look  with  favour  upon  the  work  of  my  hands,  and 
May  grace  toward  me  be  established  upon  thy  lips! 
A  long  life,  abundance  of  offspring. 
Health  and  happiness. 
As  a  boon  do  thou  grant  me! 
Before  Shamash  and  Marduk, 
Look  with  favour  upon  my  works,  command  that 
I  receive  favour! 


THE  GROTEFEND   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR   II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  the  just  king,  the  faithful  shepherd, 
who  directs  mankind,  who  rules  over  the  subjects  of  Bel, 
Shamash,  and  Marduk,  the  arbiter,  the  possessor  of  wisdom, 
who  cares  for  life,  the  lofty  one,  the  untiring  one,  the  main- 
tainer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  son  of  Nabopolassar,  King 
of  Babylon,  am  I. 

At  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  raised  me  to  the 
lordship  of  the  land,  and  committed  to  my  keeping  the 
numerous  peoples,  reverently  I  bowed  down  before  Mar- 
duk, the  god  who  created  me,  to  bear  his  yoke  I  bowed 
my  neck.  More  than  ever  before  I  increased  his  rich  tem- 
ple-dues and  his  pure  free-will  offerings.  Each  day  an  ox, 
clean,  fat,  and  perfect  *  *  *  goodly  sacrifices,  a  gift  to 
the  gods  of  Esagila  and  the  gods  of  Babylon,  fish,  birds, 


148        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

garlic,  pilu,  the  product  of  the  marsh  land,  honey,  curds, 
milk,  goodly  oil,  sesame  wine,  mead,  strong  drink  from 
the  mountains,  clear  wine,  wine  from  the  mountains  of 
Izalla,  Tu'immu,  ^immini,  Hilbuni,  Aranabani,  Suham, 
Bit-kubati,  and  Bitati,  I  furnished  in  abundance  Hke  the 
water  of  the  river,  beyond  reckoning,  to  the  table  of  Mar- 
duk  and  the  table  of  Zarpanit,  my  lords.  I  adorned  the 
shrine,  the  dwelling-place  of  his  lordship,  like  a  wall,  with 
shining  gold.  I  overlaid  the  gate  Kuzbu-rapshu  with  gold, 
and  I  richly  adorned  the  temple  for  Qarpanit,  my  mistress. 
Ezida,  the  dwelling-place  of  the  god,  the  king  of  the  gods 
of  heaven  and  earth;  the  shrine  of  Nabu  in  Esag^la,  its 
threshold,  its  bars,  and  its  lock  (?)  I  overlaid  with  gold,  and 
made  the  temple  shine  like  the  day.  With  joy  and  re- 
joicing I  built  E-temen-an-ki,  the  temple-tower  of  Babylon. 

I  brought  to  completion  Imgur-Bel,  the  great  wall  of 
Babylon,  the  city  of  the  great  lord  Marduk.  At  the  thresh- 
olds of  the  city-gates  I  stationed  strong  wild-bulls  of 
bronze,  and  serpents  standing  erect.  I  dug  its  moat  and 
reached  the  bottom  of  the  water.  I  built  its  bank  with 
bitumen  and  burned  brick.  I  had  the  bulwark  (?)  at  the 
bank  of  the  mighty  wall  built  with  bitumen  and  burned 
brick,  like  a  mountain,  so  that  it  could  not  be  moved. 

In  order  to  strengthen  the  watch-tower  of  Esagila,  that 
the  enemy  and  the  destroyer  might  not  approach  Babylon, 
I  threw  around  the  city  on  the  outer  wall  of  Babylon  a 
strong  wall  toward  the  east.  I  dug  its  moat  and  raised 
its  bank  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  mountain-high. 
By  the  side  of  Babylon  I  constructed  a  dike  of  great  masses 
of  earth,  and  surrounded  it  with  a  mighty  stream  of  many 
waters  like  the  fulness  of  the  sea,  and  then  I  threw  a  swamp 
around  this.  To  *  *  *  the  life  of  the  people  of  Babylon 
*  *  *  among  the  cities  of  Sumer  and  Akkad  I  made  its 
name  great. 

Ezida,  the  eternal  house,  I  built  anew  in  Borsippa,  and  I 
decorated  the  cedar-wood  of  its  roof  with  shining  gold.  I 
adorned  its  structure  with  gold,  silver,  precious  stones, 
bronze,  palm-wood,  and  cedar-wood.     With  joy  and  re- 


INSCRIPTION   OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR  II  149 

joicing  I  made  Nabu  and  Nana  to  take  up  a  residence 
therein  well-pleasing  to  them.  Each  day,  with  an  ox, 
clean,  fat,  and  perfect,  sixteen  fat  offerings  (?),  a  gift  to  the 
gods  of  Borsippa,  presents  (?)  of  fish,  birds,  garlic,  pilu,  the 
product  of  the  marsh  land,  mead,  serash,  sesame  wine, 
strong  drink  from  the  mountains,  clear  wine,  honey,  curds, 
milk,  and  goodly  oil,  I  weighed  down  more  than  ever  be- 
fore the  table  of  Nabu  and  Nana,  my  lords. 

I  set  apart  six  sheep  each  day  as  a  stated  oflfering  for 
Nergal  and  Laz,  the  gods  of  E-shidlam  and  Kutha.  The 
temple-dues  of  the  great  gods  I  enlarged  (?),  and  increased 
the  former  stated  oflferings. 

I  built  anew  E-babbara  in  Sippar  for  Shamash  and  A-a, 
my  lords.  I  built  anew  E-babbara  in  Larsa  for  Shamash 
and  A-a,  my  lords.  I  built  anew  E-gish-shir-gal  in  Ur  for 
Sin,  the  lord,  the  beloved  of  my  royalty.  I  built  anew 
E-ide-kalama  in  Dilbat  for  Urash,  my  lord.  I  built  anew 
E-tur-gina  in  Baz  for  Bel-^arbi,  my  lord. 

The  former  dues  and  the  ancient  rites  of  Nana,  the  bril- 
liant mistress  of  Uruk,  I  reinstated.  To  Uruk  I  returned 
its  protecting-deity,  and  to  E-anna  its  gracious  bull-colos- 
sus. I  searched  for  and  sought  out  its  ancient  platform- 
foundation,  and  upon  its  ancient  platform-foundation  I  laid 
its  foundation. 

Nebuchadrezzar,  the  lofty  priest-king,  the  restorer  of 
the  cities  of  the  great  gods,  am  I.  To  Esagila  and  Ezida 
have  I  remained  faithful.  I  have  continually  sought  out 
the  shrines  of  Nabu  and  Marduk,  my  lords.  On  their  holy 
festival,  their  great  feast  of  the  new  year,  I  came  into  their 
presence  with  oxen,  clean,  strong,  and  perfect,  goodly  sac- 
rifices, young  lambs,  garlic,  pilu,  fish,  birds,  the  product  of 
the  marsh  land,  witli  measures  of  serash,  beyond  reckoning, 
like  water,  and  wine,  each  year  in  plenty  and  abundance. 

The  numerous  peoples,  the  rule  of  which  Marduk  had 
given  into  my  hands,  I  made  submissive  to  Babylon,  and 
I  received  therein  the  income  of  the  lands,  the  product  of 
the  mountains,  and  the  riches  of  the  seas.  Under  its  en- 
during protection  I  gathered  together  all  mankind  in  com- 


I50       ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

fort,  and  stored  up  there  great  heaps  of  grain  beyond 
reckoning. 

At  that  time  I  built  anew  in  Babylon  the  palace,  the 
seat  of  my  royalty,  the  meeting-place  for  many  peoples, 
a  dwelling-place  of  joy  and  rejoicing,  where  the  defeated 
must  do  homage;  I  laid  its  platform-foundation  in  virgin 
soil,  in  the  bosom  of  the  deep  earth,  with  bitumen  and 
burned  brick;  from  Lebanon,  the  snow-capped  forest,  I 
brought  mighty  cedar  trees  for  its  roof;  I  threw  around  it 
a  mighty  wall  of  bitumen  and  burned  brick,  and  therein  I 
issued  royal  edicts  and  lordly  decrees.  I  lifted  up  my 
hands,  I  prayed  to  the  lord  of  lords;  to  Marduk,  the  merci- 
ful, my  petitions  ascended: 

O  lord  of  countries!    Marduk! 

Hearken  unto  the  word  of  my  mouth! 

May  I  enjoy  the  splendour  of  the  house  which  I 

have  built! 
May  I  attain  therein, 
In  Babylon,  old  age! 
May  I  be  sated  with  offspring! 
May  I  receive  therein 
The  heavy  tribute 

Of  the  kings  of  the  four  quarters  of  the  world. 
Of  all  mankind! 
May  my  descendants 
Rule  therein 
Forever 
Over  the  Black-headed  races! 


THE   BORSIPPA   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR   II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  faithful  shep- 
herd, the  choice  of  Marduk's  loyal  heart,  the  noble  priest- 
king,  the  beloved  of  Nabu,  the  knowing,  the  wise,  whose 
ear  is  attentive  to  the  affairs  of  the  great  gods,  the  un- 


INSCRIPTION  OF   NEBUCHADREZZAR  II 


ISI 


tiring  governor,  the  restorer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  chief 
son  of  Nabopolassar,  King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 

At  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  faithfully  cre- 
ated me,  and  commissioned  me  to  make  his  restorations, 
Nabu,  the  ruler  of  the  hosts  of  heaven  and  earth,  gave  into 
my  hands  a  righteous  sceptre.  Esagila,  the  temple  of 
heaven  and  earth,  the  dwelling-place  of  the  lord  of  the 
gods  Marduk,  and  E-kua,  his  shrine,  I  adorned  with 
shining  gold  like  a  wall.  Ezida  I  built  anew,  and  with 
silver,  gold,  precious  stones,  bronze,  palm-wood,  cedar- 
wood  I  completed  its  construction.  E-temen-an-ki,  the 
temple-tower  of  Babylon,  I  built  and  completed,  and  with 
burned  brick  and  shining  ugnu-stone  I  raised  on  high  its 
turrets. 

At  that  time  E-ur-VII-an-ki,  the  temple-tower  of  Bor- 
sippa,  which  a  former  king  had  built  and  raised  to  a  height 
of  forty-two  cubits  without  adding  its  turrets — from  time 
immemorial  it  had  been  in  ruins,  its  drainage  had  been  out 
of  repair,  rain  and  bad  weather  had  disintegrated  its  un- 
bumed  brickwork,  the  tile  work  of  its  roof  had  become 
cracked,  and  the  unbumed  brickwork  of  its  interior  was 
poured  out  into  a  mound — to  rebuild  it  the  great  lord,  Mar- 
duk, incited  my  heart.  I  did  not  change  its  site,  nor  did 
I  alter  its  platform-foundation.  In  a  prosperous  month, 
on  a  favourable  day,  the  unburned  brickwork  of  its  in- 
terior, and  the  tile  work  of  its  roof,  which  were  in  ruins,  I 
repaired,  and  I  restored  it  from  its  condition  of  ruin,  and 
I  placed  an  inscription  with  my  name  in  the  corners  (?)  of 
its  stories.  To  rebuild  it  and  to  raise  on  high  its  towers 
I  lifted  up  my  hands: 

O  Nabu,  eternal  son,  exalted  messenger, 
Victorious,  beloved  of  Marduk, 
Do  thou  look 

With  favour  and  joy  upon  my  works,  and 
A  long  life,  abundance  of  offspring, 
A  firm  throne,  an  enduring  reign,  the  overthrow  of  my 
foes, 


152        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

The  conquering  of  the  land  of  the  enemy  as  a  boon  do  thou 

grant  me! 
On  thy  eternal  tablet  which  defines  the  boundaries 
Of  heaven  and  earth, 
Do  thou  proclaim  the  length  of  my  days,  do  thou  write 

my  offspring! 
In  the  presence  of  Marduk,  the  king  of  heaven  and  earth. 
The  father,  my  begetter,  look  with  favour  upon  my  works. 
Command  that  I  receive  favour! 
May  Nebuchadrezzar, 
The  king,  the  restorer. 
Be  ever  established  in  thy  mouth! 


THE  BABYLON   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR  II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  lofty  prince, 
the  choice  of  Marduk's  loyal  heart,  the  faithful  shepherd, 
the  patron  of  the  shrines  of  Nabu,  who  delights  their  hearts, 
the  exalted  priest-king,  who  ponders  daily  concerning  the 
maintenance  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  and  is  continually  anx- 
ious for  the  shrines  of  Babylon  and  Borsippa,  the  wise,  the 
pious,  the  maintainer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  chief  son  of 
Nabopolassar,  King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 

From  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  my  creator, 
faithfully  created  me,  and  gave  into  my  charge  with  pomp 
the  shrines  of  his  city  Babylon,  I  did  not  cease  to  be  faith- 
ful to  Marduk,  my  lord.  Daily  and  unceasingly  I  medi- 
tated in  my  heart  that  which  was  pleasing  to  him.  With 
silver,  gold,  costly  precious  stones,  bronze,  palm-wood, 
cedar-wood,  all  kinds  of  precious  and  valuable  things,  with- 
out stint  I  readorned  Esagila  and  made  it  brilliant  like  the 
sun.  I  completed  Ezida,  and  made  it  as  bright  as  the 
starry  heavens. 

Imgur-Bel  and  Nimitti-Bel,  the  great  walls  of  Babylon, 
I  set  in  order,  and  I  built  the  wall  of  its  moat  mountain- 


INSCRIPTION  OF   NEBUCHADREZZAR   II 


»S3 


high  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick,  and  threw  it  around 
the  city  for  protection.  Strong  wild-bulls  of  bronze  and 
serpents  standing  erect  I  stationed  in  its  city-gates,  and  I 
beautified  Babylon  for  the  astonished  gaze  (of  all  people). 
I  cared  for  the  protection  of  Esagila  and  Babylon.  In  the 
upper  *  *  *  of  the  city-gate  Ishtar,  from  the  bank  of  the 
Euphrates  up  to  the  city-gate,  for  the  protection  of  the 
sides  of  the  city  I  built  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick 
a  mighty  citadel,  and  I  laid  its  foundation  at  the  water's 
edge  in  the  depth  of  the  clear  water.  I  raised  its  turrets 
mountain-high,  and  skilfully  strengthened  the  watch-tower, 
and  thus  protected  Babylon. 

O  Marduk,  great  lord. 

Upon  the  work  of  my  hands 

Look  with  grace  and  favour,  and 

May  my  gracious  deeds  be  established  on  thy  lips! 

By  thy  pure  word,  which  is  unchangeable. 

Proclaim  that  my  days  be  long, 

Command  that  I  have  oflfspring! 

By  thy  exalted  command,  which  can  not  be  thwarted. 

May  I  have  no  enemy,  may  I  possess  no  foe! 


THE  SENKEREH   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR  II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  humble,  the 
suppliant,  the  pious,  the  worshipper  of  the  lord  of  lords,  the 
restorer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  legitimate  son  of  Nabo- 
polassar,  King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 

At  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  the  chief  of 
the  gods,  the  mighty  leader,  appointed  me  to  rule  over  land 
and  people — at  that  time  E-babbara,  the  Temple  of  Shamash 
in  Larsa,  which  from  time  immemorial  had  been  like  a  heap 
of  ruins,  in  whose  interior  the  mud-walls  had  disintegrated 
and  the  outer  walls  were  no  longer  recognisable — in  my 
reign  the  great  lord,  Marduk,  gave  his  patronage  to  that 


154        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

temple.  He  made  the  winds  to  blow,  and  carried  away  the 
deposit  of  its  interior  so  that  the  outer  walls  could  be  seen. 
Me,  Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  his  governor  and 
his  worshipper,  he  commanded  with  pomp  to  rebuild  that 
house.  Its  ancient  platform-foundation  I  sought  and 
searched  out,  and  I  spread  fresh  mortar  (dirt)  upon  its  an- 
cient platform-foundation,  and  set  in  place  its  unbumed 
brickwork.  E-babbara,  the  eternal  temple,  the  dwelling- 
place  of  Shamash,  my  lord,  I  rebuilt  to  Shamash,  the  great 
lord,  my  lord,  who  dwells  in  E-babbara,  which  is  in  Larsa. 

O  Shamash,  great  lord. 

When  thou  makest  thy  entrance 

Into  E-babbara,  the  dwelling-place  of  thy  lordship. 

With  joy  and  rejoicing. 

Upon  the  gracious  work  of  my  hands 

Do  thou  look  with  favour,  and 

May  a  life  of  many  days, 

A  firm  throne,  and 

An  enduring  reigfn 

Be  established  on  thy  lips! 

May  the  thresholds,  bolts,  and  hinges  of  the  doors 

Of  E-babbara 

Ever 

Recall  to  thee 

My  gracious  deeds! 


THE  CANAL   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR   II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  the  humble,  the 
pious,  the  worshipper  of  the  great  gods,  the  exalted  patesi, 
the  restorer  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  the  son  of  Nabopolassar, 
King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 

I  sought  out  the  site  of  Libil-hegalla,  the  eastern  canal 
of  Babylon,  which  had  been  in  ruins  from  time  immemorial, 
and  was  choked  up  with  sand-bars  and  full  of  debris,  and 


INSCRIPTION   OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR   II  155 

from  the  bank  of  the  Euphrates  as  far  as  A-ibur-shabu(m) 
I  rebuilt  with  bitumen  and  burned  brick  its  side  walls. 
In  A-ibur-shabu(m),  the  street  of  Babylon,  for  a  procession 
street  of  the  great  lord,  Marduk,  I  constructed  a  bridge 
over  the  canal,  and  made  its  roadway  broad. 

O  Marduk,  great  lord,  • 

Continuously 

Look  with  favour  upon  me,  and 

A  long  life. 

Abundance  of  offspring, 

A  firm  throne, 

And  an  enduring 

Reign 

As  a  boon 

Do  thou  grant  me! 


THE   NEW   YORK   INSCRIPTION   OF 
NEBUCHADREZZAR   II 

Nebuchadrezzar,  the  righteous  king,  the  humble,  the 
pious,  who  knows  reverence  for  the  gods,  who  loves  equity 
and  righteousness,  who  cares  for  life,  who  places  reverence 
for  the  great  gods  in  the  mouth  of  men,  who  puts  in  order 
the  shrine  of  the  gods,  the  maintainer  of  Esagila  and 
Ezida,  the  legitimate  son  of  Nabopolassar,  King  of  Baby- 
lon, am  I. 

At  the  time  that  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  raised  me  to 
the  lordship  of  the  land,  and  summoned  me  with  an  exalted 
name  to  the  restoration  of  the  city  and  the  renovation  of  his 
shrines,  E-babbara,  the  Temple  of  Shamash,  which  is  in 
Sippar,  which  long  before  me  had  fallen  into  decay,  was 
then  like  a  heap  of  ruins,  and  Shamash,  the  great  lord,  did 
not  favour  any  former  king,  and  so  did  not  give  orders 
to  rebuild  it.  As  for  me,  his  servant,  the  wise,  the  sup- 
pliant, who  reverences  his  divinity,  my  heart  pondered  con- 
cerning the  rebuilding  of  the  shrine,  I  awaited  (?)  the  sun. 


IS6       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

I  lifted  up  my  hands,  I  prayed  to  the  sun,  concerning  the 
rebuilding  of  E-babbara  I  made  supplication,  thus: 

O  Shamash,  great  lord. 

Accept  the  lifting  up  of  my  hands. 

Hearken  unto  my  prayer! 

Concerning  the  rebuilding  of  that  temple,  I  inquired 
of  every  oracle  (?)  of  Shamash,  Ramman,  and  Marduk,  and 
Shamash,  Ramman,  and  Marduk  granted  sure  favour  to 
my  undertaking  concerning  the  rebuilding  of  the  Temple  of 
E-babbara.  For  Shamash,  the  lord,  the  exalted  judge  of 
heaven  and  earth,  the  great  warrior,  the  worthy  hero,  the 
lord  who  dictates  righteous  decisions,  the  great  lord,  my 
lord,  his  temple,  E-babbara,  which  is  in  Sippar,  I  built  with 
joy  and  rejoicing. 

O  Shamash,  great  lord. 

When  thou  joyfully  enterest  E-babbara,  thy  shin- 
ing temple. 

Ever  look  with  favour  upon  the  costly  undertak- 
ing of  my  hand! 

May  my  gracious  deeds  be  established  on  thy  lips! 

By  thy  sure  command 

May  I  be  sated  with  offspring! 

A  long  life  and 

A  firm  throne  do  thou  grant  me! 

May  my  sway  be  long  and 

Extend  forever! 

Adorn  my  kingdom 

Forever 

With  a  righteous  sceptre, 

With  goodly  rule,  and 

With  a  staflf  of  justice. 

For  the  welfare  of  my  people! 

Protect  my  people 

With  strong  weapons  and 

With  the  onslaught  of  battle! 

Do  thou,  O  Shamash, 

Truly  answer  me 


INSCRIPTION  OF  NABONIDUS  157 

In  judgment  and  in  dream! 

At  thy  noble  command, 

Which  can  not  be  altered, 

May  my  weapons  be  drawn. 

May  they  wound, 

May  they  overthrow  the  weapons  of  the  enemies ! 


INSCRIPTION    FROM    THE    FOUR   CLAY 

CYLINDERS   OF   NABONIDUS,  KING 

OF   BABYLON   (555-538  b.  c.) 

MENTIONING  BELSHAZZAR,  THE   KING'S  SON 
Found  at  the  corners  of  the  Temple  of  Sin  at  Mugheir 

Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon,  patron  of  Esagila  and 
Ezida,  who  fears  the  great  gods,  am  I. 

As  for  E-lugal-(?)-si-di,  the  temple  tower  of  E-gish- 
shir-gal,  which  is  in  Ur,  which  Ur-uk,  a  former  king,  had 
built,  but  had  not  completed — Dun-gi,  his  son,  completed 
its  construction.  From  the  inscriptions  of  Ur-uk  and 
Dun-gi,  his  son,  I  learned  that  Ur-uk  had  built  this  temple- 
tower,  without  completing  it,  and  that  Dun-gi,  his  son, 
had  completed  its  construction.  This  temple-tower  was 
now  old,  and  upon  the  old  platform-foundation  which 
Ur-uk  and  Dun-gi,  his  son,  had  built,  I  undertook  the  re- 
construction of  this  temple-tower,  as  of  old,  with  bitumen 
and  burned  brick,  and  for  Sin,  the  lord  of  the  gods  of  heaven 
and  earth,  the  king  of  the  gods,  the  god  of  gods,  who  in- 
habit the  great  heavens,  the  lord  of  E-gish-shir-gal,  which 
is  in  Ur,  my  lord,  I  founded  and  built  (it). 

O  Sin,  lord  of  the  gods,  king  of  the  gods  of  heaven  and 
earth,  the  god  of  gods,  who  inhabit  the  great  heavens, 
upon  thy  joyful  entrance  into  that  temple  may  the  good 
done  to  Esagila,  Ezida  (and)  E-gish-shir-gal,  the  temples 
of  thy  great  divinity,  be  established  on  thy  lips! 

And  do  thou  implant  the  fear  of  thy  great  divinity  in 
the  heart  of  its  people,  that  they  may  not  sin  against  thy 


158       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

great  divinity,  (and)  like  the  heavens  may  their  foundations 
stand  fast! 

As  for  me,  Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon,  save  me  from 
sinning  against  thy  great  divinity! 

A  life  of  far-distant  days  grant  me  as  a  present! 

And  as  regards  Belshazzar,  the  first-born  son,  my  off- 
spring, do  thou  implant  in  his  heart  the  fear  of  thy  great 
divinity! 

May  he  not  fall  into  sin! 

May  he  be  satisfied  with  fulness  of  life! 


THE    STELE    OF    NABONIDUS 

*  *  *  he  planned  (?)  evil  *  *  *  his  heart  planned  (?) 
rebellion.  He  did  not  grant  (?)  forgiveness,  evil  *  *  * 
Against  Babylon  [he  went?].  He  laid  in  ruins  its  temples, 
destroyed  the  reliefs,  overturned  the  shrines  (?);  he  took 
the  hand  of  the  Prince  Marduk,  and  brought  (him)  to 
Asshur.  He  treated  the  land  according  to  the  measure  of 
the  wrath  of  the  god.  The  Prince  Marduk  did  not  relax 
his  anger.  For  twenty-one  years  he  made  his  dwelling- 
place  in  Asshur. 

The  days  were  fulfilled,  the  appointed  time  came;  then 
was  his  wrath  appeased  which  the  king  of  the  gods,  the 
lord  of  lords,  had  planned  against  Esagila  and  Babylon, 
the  dwelling-place  of  his  lordship. 

As  for  the  King  of  Assyria,  who,  on  account  of  the 
wrath  of  Marduk,  had  brought  about  the  destruction  of 
the  land,  his  own  son  killed  him  with  a  sword. 

*  *  *  a  helper  he  gave  him,  and  he  furnished  him 
with  an  ally.  The  king  of  the  Umman-manda,  who  was 
without  a  rival,  he  made  obedient  to  his  command,  and 
brought  to  his  help.  Above  and  below,  right  and  left, 
like  a  cyclone  he  laid  waste  (the  land);  he  avenged  Baby- 
lon, he  multiplied  vengeance.  The  king  of  the  Umman- 
manda,  the  fearless,  ruined  the  temples  of  the  gods  of  As- 


THE   STELE   OF  NABONIDUS  159 

Syria — ^all  of  them;  and  the  cities  on  the  border  of  Akkad, 
which  were  hostile  to  the  King  of  Akkad,  and  had  not 
come  to  his  help,  he  ruined,  and  of  their  sanctuaries  he  did 
not  leave  one.  He  laid  waste  their  cities  more  than  was 
necessary,  like  a  cyclone.  The  work  of  Marduk,  which 
(consisted  in)  plundering,  grieved  the  King  of  Babylon. 
He  did  not  put  his  hands  to  the  shrines  (?)  of  the  gods — 
any  of  them.  He  prospered  and  did  not  lie  down  on  a 
bed  *  *  *  their  gods  *  *  *  whose  name  Marduk  had 
called  to  people  the  cities  of  the  gods,  which  had  been 
destroyed;  who  established  with  his  hands  the  ruined 
mounds,  the  temples  of  the  gods. 

Nana  of  Uruk,  the  lofty  princess,  who  dwells  in  a  house 
of  gold,  who  puts  seven  lions  to  harness,  whose  power 
during  the  reign  of  Erba-Marduk,  the  king,  the  Uruk- 
kjeans  had  crushed,  whose  house  they  had  torn  down  and 
whose  set  of  lions  they  had  turned  loose,  went  forth  from 
E-an-na  in  wrath,  and  resided  (in  a  place  which  was)  not 
her  residence.  A  deity,  who  did  not  belong  in  E-an-na, 
they  permitted  to  reside  in  her  shrine.  He  brought  Ishtar 
to  her  rights,  restored  her  to  her  house,  put  to  harness  for 
her  the  seven  lions,  the  mark  of  her  divinity.  The  Ishtar, 
who  did  not  belong  here,  he  brought  forth  from  E-an-na, 
and  the  goddess  Nana,  he  restored  to  E-an-na,  to  her 
shrine. 

Ishtar,  the  mistress  of  Elam,  the  princess,  who  dwells 
in  Susa  *  *  *  dwelling  in  *  *  *  which  is  in  *  *  * 
which,  from  time  immemorial,  no  one  had  seen,  of  gish- 
shir-gal  stone,  which  is  as  bright  as  day,  and  pure  gold 
he  restored  her  residence.  Anunit,  who  dwells  in  Sippar 
of  Anunit,  whose  residence  an  enemy  had  changed  some 
time  before  to  Arrapha,  and  whose  shrine  the  Gutaeans 
had  ruined,  Neriglassar  renewed,  and  he  furnished  her  with 
a  divinity-gown.  Her  house  was  in  ruins.  In  Sippar  of 
Am-na-nu  he  permitted  her  to  take  up  her  residence,  and 
he  re-established  her  offerings. 

When  the  days  were  fulfilled  and  he  had  gone  the  way 
of  fate,  Labashi-Marduk,  his  younger  son,  who  knew  not 


l6o        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

how  to  rule,  took  his  seat  against  the  will  of  the  gods  upon 
the  royal  throne,  and  *  *  ♦  to  the  palace  (?)  they  brought 
me,  and  all  of  them  threw  themselves  at  my  feet  and  kissed 
them,  doing  homage  to  my  royal  rule.  By  command  of 
Marduk,  my  lord,  I  was  raised  to  the  rule  over  the  land, 
while  they  cried  out,  "  Father  of  the  land!  He  has  no 
equal! " 

I  am  the  mighty  legate  of  Nebuchadrezzar  and  Neri- 
glassar,  the  kings,  my  predecessors.  Their  troops  were 
intrusted  to  my  hands.  I  do  not  sin  against  their  bidding, 
and  I  make  glad  their  hearts.  Evil-Merodach,  the  son  of 
Nebuchadrezzar,  and  Labashi-Marduk,  the  son  of  Neri- 
glassar  *  *  *  they  broke  their  commands  *  *  *  I  prayed 
to  them  touching  the  approach  (?)  of  the  great  star,  and 
Sin.  While  I  still  communed  with  myself,  the  noble  lord 
stood  at  my  side,  and  spoke  to  me  as  follows:  "  The  ap- 
proach (?)  betokens  no  evil."  In  that  dream  Nebuchad- 
rezzar, the  former  king,  and  the  lord,  the  minister,  stood 
on  a  chariot.  The  minister  spoke  to  Nebuchadrezzar  as 
follows:  "  Speak  with  Nabonidus,  and  he  will  interpret  for 
thee  the  dream  which  he  saw."  Nebuchadrezzar  gave  ear 
to  him  and  spoke  with  me  as  follows:  "  Tell  me  what  of 
good  omen  thou  didst  see."  I  was  afraid  of  him,  and  I 
spoke  to  him  as  follows:  "  In  my  dream  I  saw  a  great  star, 
Sin  and  Marduk,  in  the  midst  of  the  high  heavens — au- 
spiciously." He  addressed  me  by  name  *  *  *  Venus,  Sat- 
urn *  *  *  Jupiter,  a  star  *  *  *  great,  dwelling  in  the 
heavens,  I  made  (?).  Great  (?)  I  made  them.  For  a  long 
life,  a  firm  throne,  an  enduring  reign,  favour  (shown  to) 
my  words  before  Marduk,  my  lord,  I  prayed  to  them.  I 
lay  down  and  in  the  middle  of  the  night  I  saw  Bau  (Gula), 
my  mistress,  who  makes  the  dead  to  live,  (and)  who  gives 
long  life.  For  eternal  life  for  my  soul,  that  she  would 
turn  her  face  in  favour,  I  prayed  to  her.  She  turned  her 
face  in  favour,  and  with  her  shining  countenance  she  looked 
on  me  with  interest,  and  granted  (me)  mercy.  Into 
E-sha-pa-kalama-shum-ma  I  entered,  and  before  Nabu, 
who  makes  my  reign  long,  and  who  has  intrusted  me 


THE  STELE   OF   NABONIDUS  i6i 

with  a  righteous  sceptre,  and  with  a  firm  staff  which 
enlarges  the  country,  I  sought  out  the  seat  of  Tashmet, 
the  goddess  Gula,  who  grants  Hfe,  and  she  granted  (?)  (me) 
a  long  life  (and)  the  overthrow  of  kings.  Before  Marduk, 
my  lord,  she  looked  with  favour  on  my  words. 

Marduk,  my  lord,  was  appeased  (?)  with  reverence. 
I  magnified  (him)  and  with  petition  and  prayer  I  sought 
out  his  seat  and  I  read  his  prayers.  I  told  him  the  words 
of  my  heart,  as  follows:  I  am  the  king,  the  favourite  (?)  of 
thy  heart  (?).  While  the  kingdom  is  in  my  heart  (=:=is 
my  chief  concern)  do  not  make  me  too  proud  (?)  to  know 
thee,  since  thou,  O  lord  of  lords,  hast  intrusted  me  with 
more  than  other  kings,  whom  thou  hast  called.  While 
I  exercise  authority,  prolong  my  days,  let  my  years  con- 
tinue indefinitely,  and  let  me  carry  out  the  restoration 
*  *  *  divinity  *  *  *  precious  stones  and  gold  to  make 
his  appearance  brilliant;  for  Ea,  my  lord,  who  enlarges  my 
dominion;  Nabu,  who  rules  the  hosts  of  heaven  and  earth, 
who  prolongs  the  days  of  my  life;  Tashmet,  the  mistress, 
who  protects  my  life,  for  a  gown  of  their  great  divinity  I 
made  splendid  with  great  zeal.  For  Ea,  my  lord,  a  chair 
of  pure  gold,  which  no  former  king  had  made,  as  in  days 
of  old  I  made,  and  in  E-kar-za-gin-na  in  his  chamber  I 
placed  (it)  for  his  seat. 

The  king,  who  held  constantly  in  mind,  every  day, 
without  fail,  the  maintenance  of  Esagila  and  Ezida,  am  I. 

The  doors  of  wood  which  are  in  the  rooms  of  the  temple 
of  the  gods  of  heaven  and  earth,  the  house  of  the  decision  of 
Marduk  and  Qarpanit,  and  the  doorways  of  E-ki  (?)  on  both 
sides  of  the  Temple  of  E-mah,  and  the  ten  (?)  gates  of  the 
goddess,  my  mistress,  for  the  procession  of  ^arpanit,  be- 
loved of  Marduk,  who  lays  firm  the  foundation  (?)  of  my 
royal  throne,  I  overlaid  with  bright  silver.  The  gate  of 
Gula,  the  gate  of  E-mah,  whose  doors  for  decoration  (?) 
were  made  of  wood,  the  splendid  doors,  their  doorways  I 
constructed  anew  of  cedar,  inlaid  them  with  eshmaru-metal, 
made  them  as  brilliant  as  the  day,  made  them  to  appear  as 
if  covered  with  their  original  decorations,  for  the  procession 


l62        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

of  Bau  I  set  them  in  place.  Serpents  of  bronze,  which  are 
on  the  side  walls  of  E-mah,  and  *  *  *  who  maintains,  who 
brings  large  gifts  to  the  great  gods,  am  I. 

In  the  month  Nisan,  on  the  tenth  day,  when  the  king 
of  the  gods,  Marduk,  and  the  gods  of  heaven  and  earth 
take  up  their  dwelling  in  E-sigisshe-sigisshe,  the  house  of 
prayer,  the  house  of  the  festival  of  the  god,  the  lord  of 
truth,  one  hundred  talents,  twenty-one  manas  of  silver,  five 
talents,  seventeen  manas  of  gold  to  the  offerings  of  every 
year  which  from  the  tribute-presents  (?),  from  the  fulness  of 
the  land,  all  the  riches  of  the  mountains,  the  income  from  all 
settlements,  the  treasures  (?)  of  the  kings,  the  rich  posses- 
sions, which  Prince  Marduk  had  intrusted  to  me,  to  Bel, 
Nabu,  and  Nergal,  the  great  gods,  who  love  my  reign,  who 
protect  my  life  forever,  offerings,  such  as  their  hearts  de- 
sired, I  brought  before  them.  Twenty-seven  hundred  and 
fifty  of  the  soldiers  *  *  *  (?)  (?)  which  Marduk,  the  lord, 
had  given  to  me  in  larger  numbers  than  to  the  kings  my 
predecessors,  and  which  he  had  intrusted  to  me,  as  guards 
of  the  shrine  (?),  I  presented  to  Bel,  Nabu,  and  Nergal,  my 
gods,  who  go  at  my  side. 

After  I  had  celebrated  the  festival  of  bit-akitu  I  caused 
Bel  and  the  son  of  Bel  to  reside  in  their  splendid  residence. 
I  brought  into  the  large  cities  magnificent  presents  to  g^ve 
(them)  to  Bel  and  Nergal.  I  went  to  Uruk,  Larsa,  and  Ur, 
and  I  brought  silver,  gold  (and)  precious  stones  into  the 
presence  of  Sin,  Shamash,  and  Ishtar.  The  oracle  of  the 
goddess  HAR  in  (?)  the  city  of  Ishtar  in  my  march  (?) 
*  *  *  sacrifices  without  blemish  *  *  *  their  (?)  founda- 
tion. They  did  not  reside  in  their  residence.  Marduk,  my 
lord,  waited  on  me  and  he  intrusted  to  my  hands  the  re- 
pairs of  the  shrines  of  the  gods;  (and)  with  his  illustrious 
command,  he  ordered  (as  the  work)  of  my  reign  the  rec- 
onciliation of  the  gods,  who  were  enraged,  (and)  the  re- 
habiting  of  their  residences.  In  Harran,  E-huI-hul,  which 
had  been  in  ruins  fifty-four  years,  on  account  of  the  de- 
structive raid  of  the  Umman-manda,  who  had  laid  waste  the 
temples — fifty-four  years  were  declared  (?)  to  him  by  the 


INSCRIPTION  OF  NABONIDUS  163 

gods  as  the  time  of  reconciliation  when  Sin  should  return 
to  his  seat. 

Now  that  he  was  to  return  to  his  seat,  Sin,  the  lord  of 
the  moon  disk,  was  mindful  of  his  exalted  residence,  and  the 
gods,  as  many  as  had  gone  forth  with  him  from  his  shrine, 
Marduk,  the  king  of  the  gods,  gave  orders  to  assemble. 
The  ***(?)  of  precious  ashpu-stone,  the  royal  stone, 
with  which  Ashurbanipal,  the  King  of  Assyria,  had  deco- 
rated the  statue  of  Sin  for  a  memorial  of  his  name,  and  had 
built  thereon  (the  majestic  position  of  Sin  on  the  *  *  * 
he  had  described)  and  had  placed  it  on  the  neck  of  Sin — 
since,  in  days  gone  by,  its  figure  had  been  damaged  (?) 
through  a  destructive  raid  of  an  enemy,  in  order  that  his 
omens  might  not  come  into  disuse  in  Esagila,  the  house, 
which  protects  the  life  of  the  great  gods  *  *  * 

[Column  XI  is  omitted  because  of  the  many  difficult  pas- 
sages which  can  not  be  satisfactorily  explained.] 


INSCRIPTION   ON  A  CLAY   CYLINDER 
OF  NABONIDUS 

I,  Nabonidus,  the  great  king,  the  powerful  king,  the 
king  of  the  world,  the  King  of  Babylon,  the  king  of  the 
four  quarters  of  the  world,  the  patron  of  Esagila  and  Ezida, 
whose  destiny  Sin  and  Ningal,  while  he  was  yet  in  the 
womb  of  his  mother,  determined  as  a  royal  destiny,  the  son 
of  Nabu-balatsu-iqbi,  the  wise  prince,  who  worships  the 
great  gods,  am  I. 

E-hul-hul,  the  Temple  of  Sin,  which  is  in  Harran,  in 
which,  from  time  immemorial.  Sin,  the  great  lord,  had 
made  a  residence  well-pleasing  to  him — ^against  that  city 
and  temple  his  heart  became  angered,  and  he  brought  the 
Scythians  to  attack  it,  and  he  destroyed  that  temple  and 
brought  it  to  ruin. 

In  my  legitimate  reign,  Bel,  the  great  lord,  through 
love  for  my  kingdom,  was  gracious,  and  showed  mercy  to 


164       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

that  city  and  temple.  In  the  beginning  of  my  everlasting 
reign  he  made  me  to  see  a  vision.  Marduk,  the  great  lord, 
and  Sin,  the  light  of  heaven  and  earth,  stood  on  either  side. 
Marduk  spake  with  me:  "  Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon, 
haul  bricks  with  thy  wagon-horses,  rebuild  E-hul-hul,  and 
make  Sin,  the  great  lord,  to  take  up  his  residence  therein." 
Reverently  I  spake  unto  the  lord  of  the  gods,  Marduk: 
"  The  Scythians  have  encompassed  that  house,  which  thou 
didst  command  to  rebuild,  and  their  forces  are  mighty." 
But  Marduk  spake  with  me:  "  The  Scythians  of  whom 
thou  hast  spoken — ^they,  their  country,  and  the  kings  who 
marched  with  them  are  no  more."  On  the  approach  of  the 
third  year  they  instigated  Cyrus,  King  of  Anzan,  his  petty 
vassal,  to  attack  them,  and  with  his  few  troops  he  routed 
the  numerous  Scythians.  He  seized  Astyages,  King  of 
the  Scythians,  and  took  him  as  a  captive  to  his  own  coun- 
try. (It  was)  the  word  of  the  great  lord,  Marduk,  and  Sin, 
the  light  of  heaven  and  earth,  whose  command  can  not  be 
annulled.  At  their  illustrious  command  I  was  afraid;  I 
became  anxious  and  alarmed,  and  I  was  much  troubled.  I 
did  not  tarry,  I  did  not  draw  back,  I  took  no  rest;  I  put 
my  numerous  troops  on  the  march  from  Gaza,  on  the  bor- 
der of  the  land  of  Egypt,  from  the  Upper  Sea  beyond  the 
Euphrates  to  the  Lower  Sea,  the  kings,  princes,  governors, 
and  my  numerous  troops,  which  Sin,  Shamash,  and  Ishtar, 
my  lords,  had  intrusted  to  me,  to  rebuild  E-hul-hul,  the  Tem- 
ple of  Sin,  my  lord,  who  walks  at  my  side,  which  is  in  Harran, 
and  which  Ashurbanipal,  the  King  of  Assyria,  the  son  of 
Esarhaddon,  the  King  of  Assyria,  a  prince,  my  predecessor, 
had  built.  In  a  favourable  month,  on  an  auspicious  day, 
revealed  to  me  by  Shamash  and  Ramman  in  a  vision,  with 
the  wisdom  of  Ea  and  Marduk,  with  incantations,  with  the 
co-operation  of  the  Brick-god,  the  lord  of  foundations  and 
brick,  with  silver,  gold,  and  precious  stones,  products  of 
the  forest,  sweet-smelling  cedars,  amid  joy  and  rejoicing, 
I  laid  its  foundation  and  raised  its  brick-work  on  the  plat- 
form-foundation of  Ashurbanipal,  the  King  of  Assyria,  who 
had  found  the  platform-foundation  of  Shalmaneser,  the 


INSCRIPTION   OF  NABONIDUS  165 

son  of  Ashurnagirpal.  I  poured  date-wine,  wine,  oil,  and 
honey  over  its  walls,  and  I  sprinkled  its  wood-work  (?) 
therewith.  I  made  its  parts  stronger  and  its  construction 
more  artistic  than  did  the  kings,  my  forefathers.  I  built 
that  temple  anew  from  its  platform-foundation  to  its  roof, 
and  I  completed  its  construction.  I  laid  in  rows  upon  it 
(as  a  roof)  long  cedar  poles,  the  product  of  the  Amanus;  I 
set  up  in  its  doorways  doors  of  cedar,  whose  odour  was 
good;  I  overlaid  its  brick-work  with  silver  and  gold  and  I 
made  it  to  shine  like  the  sun.  I  stationed  in  its  building  as 
a  present  a  wild  bull  of  bright  zahalu-metal,  which  forces 
back  my  foes.  I  placed  two  Lahmus  of  eshmaru,  which 
overthrow  my  enemies,  on  the  right  and  left  in  the  Eastern 
Gate.  I  took  the  hands  of  Sin,  Ningal,  Nusku,  and  Sadar- 
nunna,  my  lords,  from  Babylon,  my  royal  city,  and  with 
joy  and  rejoicing  I  made  them  take  up  a  residence  therein 
well-pleasing  to  them.  I  ofifered  large,  clean  sacrifices  in 
their  presence,  and  brought  forward  my  presents.  I 
brought  the  ancient  E-hul-hul  and  the  entire  city  of  Harran 
to  a  state  of  perfection,  and  I  made  it  to  shine  with  the 
brilliancy  of  the  New  Moon. 

O  Sin,  king  of  the  gods  of  heaven  and  earth,  who  from 
time  immemorial  hast  not  resided  in  city  or  country,  nor 
hast  returned  to  his  original  seat,  when  thou  enterest  E-hul- 
hul,  the  temple,  thy  luxurious  dwelling,  may  the  good  done 
to  the  city  and  that  temple  be  on  thy  lips! 

May  the  gods,  who  dwell  in  heaven  and  earth, 
grant  blessing  to  the  Temple  of  Sin,  their  father  and 
begetter! 

May  Sin,  the  king  of  the  gods  of  heaven  and  earth, 
with  gracious  eyes  uplifted,  look  with  joy  upon  me,  Na- 
bonidus.  King  of  Babylon,  who  has  brought  his  temple 
to  completion,  and  may  he  give  me  favourable  signs 
monthly  at  the  rising  and  setting! 

May  he  lengthen  my  days,  prolong  my  years,  and  estab- 
lish my  reign! 

May  he  vanquish  my  enemies,  overthrow  my  adver- 
saries, and  overwhelm  my  foes ! 


l66       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

May  Ningal,  the  mother  of  the  great  gods,  make 
kindly  mention  of  me  in  the  presence  of  Sin,  her  be- 
loved! 

May  Shamash  and  Ishtar,  his  brilliant  offspring,  make 
gracious  reference  to  me  before  Sin,  their  father  and  be- 
getter! 

May  Nusku,  the  exalted  minister,  hear  my  prayers  and 
make  intercession  for  me! 

I  found  the  inscription,  written  in  the  name  of  Ashur- 
banipal,  the  King  of  Assyria,  and  I  did  not  alter  it.  I 
anointed  it  with  oil,  offered  sacrifices,  placed  it  with  my  in- 
scription, and  restored  it  to  its  place. 

For  Shamash,  the  judge  of  heaven  and  earth,  E-bab- 
bara,  his  temple  which  is  in  Sippara,  which  Nebuchadrez- 
zar, a  former  king,  had  rebuilt,  after  searching  for  its  plat- 
form-foundation without  finding  it — ^that  house  he  rebuilt, 
but  in  forty-five  years  its  walls  had  fallen  in.  I  became 
anxious  and  humble;  I  was  alarmed  and  much  troubled. 
When  I  had  brought  out  Shamash  from  within  it  and  made 
him  take  residence  in  another-  house,  I  pulled  that  house 
down  and  made  search  for  its  old  platform-foundation;  and 
I  dug  to  a  depth  of  eighteen  cubits,  and  Shamash,  the 
great  lord  of  E-babbara,  the  temple,  the  dwelling  well- 
pleasing  to  him,  permitted  me  to  behold  the  platform-foun- 
dation of  Naram-Sin,  the  son  of  Sargon,  which,  during  a 
period  of  thirty-two  hundred  years,  no  king  among  my 
predecessors  had  seen.  In  the  month  Tishrit,  in  a  favour- 
able month,  on  an  auspicious  day,  revealed  to  me  by  Sha- 
mash and  Ramman  in  a  vision,  with  silver,  gold,  costly 
and  precious  stones,  products  of  the  forest,  sweet-smelling 
cedars,  amid  joy  and  rejoicing,  I  raised  its  brick-work — 
not  an  inch  inward  or  outward — upon  the  platform-founda- 
tion of  Naram-Sin,  the  son  of  Sargon.  I  laid  in  rows  five 
thousand  large  cedars  for  its  roof;  I  set  up  in  its  doorways 
high  doors  of  cedar,  thresholds  and  hinges  (?).  I  built 
E-babbara,  with  its  temple-tower  E-ilu-an-azagga  anew 
and  I  completed  its  construction.  I  took  the  hands  of 
Shamash,  my  lord,  and  with  joy  and  rejoicing  I  made  him 


INSCRIPTION   OF  NABONIDUS  167 

take  up  a  residence  therein  well-pleasing  to  him.  I  found 
the  inscription,  written  in  the  name  of  Naram-Sin,  the  son 
of  Sargon,  and  I  did  not  alter  it.  I  anointed  it  with  oil, 
offered  sacrifices,  placed  it  with  my  inscription,  and  re- 
stored it  to  its  place. 

O  Shamash,  great  lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  light  of 
the  gods,  his  fathers,  offspring  of  Sin  and  Ningal,  when 
thou  enterest  E-babbara,  thy  beloved  temple,  when  thou 
takest  residence  in  thy  eternal  shrine,  look  with  joy  upon 
me,  Nabonidus — King  of  Babylon,  the  prince,  thy  sup- 
porter, who  hath  gladdened  thy  heart  and  built  thy  lofty 
dwelling-place — and  my  gracious  works! 

Give  me  favourable  signs  daily  at  the  rising  and  setting 
(of  the  sun)  in  the  heavens  and  on  earth! 

Receive  my  supplications  and  grant  favour  to  my  peti- 
tions ! 

May  I  hold  the  legitimate  sceptre  and  staff,  which  thou 
hast  intrusted  to  me,  forever  and  ever! 

For  Anunit,  the  mistress  of  battle,  who  beareth  bow 
and  quiver,  who  executeth  the  commands  of  Bel,  her  father, 
who  overwhelmeth  the  enemy,  who  destroyeth  the  wicked, 
who  marcheth  before  the  gods,  who  giveth  me  favourable 
signs  at  the  rising  and  setting  of  the  sun — ^for  the  old  plat- 
form-foundation of  E-ul-bar,  her  temple,  which  is  in  Sip- 
para  of  Anunit  (which  for  eight  hundred  years  since  the 
time  of  Shagashaltiburiash,  King  of  Babylon,  son  of  Kudur- 
Bel,  no  king  had  rebuilt),  I  made  excavations  and  I  dis- 
covered it.  I  found  it  and  I  laid  its  foundation  and  raised 
its  brick-work  upon  the  platform-foundation  of  Shagashalti- 
buriash, the  son  of  Kudur-Bel.  I  built  that  temple  anew, 
and  I  completed  its  construction.  Anunit,  the  mistress  of 
battle,  who  executeth  the  commands  of  Bel,  who  over- 
whelmeth the  enemy,  who  destroyeth  the  wicked,  who 
marcheth  before  the  gods,  I  made  to  take  residence  there- 
in. I  made  the  stated  and  free-will  offerings  larger  than 
before,  iand  I  set  them  before  her. 

Do  thou,  O  Anunit,  great  mistress,  when  thou  enterest 
with  joy  into  this  temple,  look  with  joy  upon  my  gracious 


l68        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

works,  and  every  month  at  sunrise  and  sunset  do  thou 
bring  to  Sin,  thy  father  and  begetter,  my  loyal  homage! 

Whosoever  thou  art  whom  Sin  and  Shamash  shall  name 
to  the  kingdom,  and  in  whose  reign  this  temple  may  fall 
into  decay  and  he  may  rebuild  it — may  he  see  the  inscrip- 
tion written  in  my  name,  and  may  he  not  alter  it! 

May  he  anoint  it  with  oil,  offer  sacrifices,  place  it  with 
the  inscription  written  in  his  name,  and  restore  it  to  its 
place! 

May  Shamash  and  Anunit  hear  his  prayer,  look  with 
favour  on  his  commands,  and  march  at  his  side! 

May  they  overthrow  his  foes! 

May  they  make  gfracious  reference  to  him  daily  before 
Sin,  their  father  and  begetter! 


THE  ANNALS   OF   NABONIDUS 

[Two  columns  of  the  inscription,  and  parts  of  another,  are 
:  too  much  mutilated  for  translation.] 

[His  troops]  he  collected,  and  he  marched  against  Cyrus, 

King  of  Anshan,  to  conquer  him  *  *  * 
The  troops  of  Astyages  rebelled  against  him,  and,  taking 

him  prisoner,  they  handed  him  over  to  Cyrus. 
Cyrus  (went)  to  Ecbatana,  the  royal  city.     The  silver,  gold, 

possessions,  property  *  *  * 
of  Ecbatana  they  carried  away  as  spoil,  and  he  brought  (it) 

to  Anshan.     The  possessions  (and)  property  *  *  * 
7th  year.     The  king  in  Tema;  the  son  of  the  king,  the 

nobles,  and  his  soldiers  in  Akkad.     [The  king  for 

Nisan] 
did  not  come  to  Babylon.    Nabu  did  not  come  to  Babylon; 

Bel  was  not  brought  forth,  and  the  akitu-festival 

[was  not  celebrated] . 
They  offered  (gave)  sacrifices  in  Esagila  and  Ezida  to  the 

gods  of  Babylon  and  Borsippa,  as  is  [right];  the 

urigal  poured  out  libations  and  guarded  the  house. 
8th  year. 


THE   ANNALS   OF  NABONIDUS  169 

9th  year.     Nabonidus,  the  king,  in  Tema;  the  son  of  the 

king,  the  nobles,  and  the  soldiers  in  Akkad.     The 

king  did  not  come 
to  Babylon  for  Nisan.     Nabu  did  not  come  to  Babylon; 

Bel  was  not  brought  forth,  and  the  akitu-festival 

was  not  celebrated. 
They  offered  sacrifices  in  Esagila  and  Ezida  to  the  gods  of 

Babylon  and  Borsippa,  as  is  right. 
The  month  Nisan.     The  fifth  day.     The  mother  of  the 

king  died  in  Durkarashu,  which  is  on  the  bank  of 

the  Euphrates  above  Sippar. 
The  son  of  the  king  and  his  soldiers  mourned  three  days. 

A  lamentation  was  arranged.     In  Sivan,  in  Akkad, 
a  lamentation  for  the  mother  of  the  king  was  arranged.     In 

Nisan,  Cyrus,  King  of  Parsu,  mustered  his  troops, 

and 
crossed  over  the  Tigris  below  Arbela.     In  lyyar,  to  the 

country  *  *  * 
He  slew  its  king  (and)  took  away  its  possessions.    He  sta- 
tioned his  own  garrison  there. 
After  this  time  his  garrison  remained  there  with  that  of  the 

king, 
loth  year.     The  king  in  Tema;  the  son  of  the  king,  the 

nobles,  and  his  troops  in  Akkad.     [The  king  did 

not  come  to  Babylon  for  Nisan.] 
Nabu  did  not  come  to  Babylon;  Bel  was  not  brought  forth, 

and  the  akitu-festival  was  not  celebrated.    In  [Esa- 
gila and  Ezida] 
they  offered  sacrifices  to  the  gods  of  Babylon  and  Borsippa, 

as  is  right.    In  Sivan,  on  the  twenty-first  day  *  *  * 
of  Elammiya  in  Akkad  *  *  *  the  representative  in  Uruk 

nth  year.     The  king  in  Tema;  the  son  of  the  king,  the 

nobles,  and  his  troops  in  Akkad.     [The  king  did 

not  come  to  Babylon  for  Nisan.] 
[Nabu  did  not  come  to]  Babylon;  Bel  was  not  brought 

forth,   and  the   akitu-festival  was   not   celebrated. 

Sacrifices  [in  Esagila  and  Ezida] 


170 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


[to  the  gods  of]  Babylon  and  [Borsippa,  as  is  right]  they 

offered. 
[17th  year.]   *  *  *  Nabu  from  Borsippa  to  go  forth  *  *  * 

*  *  *  the  king  entered  E-tur-kalam-ma.     In  the  [month] 

*  *  *  and  the  Lower  Sea  rebelled  (?)*** 

[Nabu  came  to  Babylon] ;  Bel  was  brought  forth  and  the 
akitu-festival  was  celebrated,  as  is  right.  In  the 
month  *  *  * 

the  gods  of  Maradda,  the  god  Zamama,  and  the  gods  of 
Kish,  Beltis,  and  the  gods 

of  Har-sag-kalam-ma  entered  Babylon.  By  the  end  of  Elul 
the  gods  of  Akkad, 

those  who  are  above  as  well  as  those  below  the  firmament, 
entered  Babylon.    The  gods  of  Borsippa,  Kutha, 

and  Sippar  did  not  enter.  In  the  month  Tammuz,  when 
Cyrus  gave  battle  in  Opis  (and?)  on 

the  river  Salsallat  to  the  troops  of  Akkad,  the  people  of 
Akkad 

he  subdued  (?).  Whenever  the  people  collected  them- 
selves, he  slew  them.  On  the  fourteenth  day  Sip- 
par  was  taken  without  battle. 

Nabonidus  fled.  On  the  sixteenth  day,  Gobryas,  the  gov- 
ernor of  Gutium,  and  the  troops  of  Cyrus  entered 
Babylon 

without  battle.  Nabonidus,  because  of  his  delay,  was 
taken  prisoner  in  Babylon.  Until  the  end  of  the 
month,  the  shields 

of  Gutium  surrounded  the  gates  of  Esagila.  No  weapons 
were  brought  into  Esagila  and  the  other  temples, 

and  no  standard  was  advanced.  On  the  third  day  of  Mar- 
cheshvan,  Cyrus  entered  Babylon. 

The  harine  lay  down  before  him.  Peace  was  established 
for  the  city.     Cyrus  proclaimed  peace  to 

all  Babylon.  He  appointed  Gobryas,  his  governor,  gov- 
ernor in  Babylon, 

and  from  Kislev  to  Adar,  the  gods  of  Akkad,  which  Na- 
bonidus had  brought  to  Babylon, 


THE   CYLINDER  OF   CYRUS  171 

returned  to  their  own  cities.  On  the  night  of  the  eleventh 
day  of  Marcheshvan,  Gobryas  against  *  *  * 

and  (?)  he  killed  the  son  of  the  king.  From  the  twenty- 
seventh  day  of  Adar  until  the  third  of  Nisan,  a  lam- 
entation [was  arranged]  in  Akkad. 

All  the  people  cast  down  their  heads.  On  the  fourth  day, 
when  Cambyses,  son  of  Cyrus,  went 

to  E-sha-pa-kalamma-shum-mu,  the  prefect  of  Nabu,  who 

*  *  * 

[when]  he  went  (?),  he  brought  a  message  in  his  hand, 

and  when  the  hands  of  Nabu  *  *  * 
javelins  and  quivers  *  *  *  son  of  the  king  (?)  to  *  *  * 

*  *  *  Nabu  turned  to  Esagila;  sacrifices  before  Bel  and 

*  *  * 


THE  CYLINDER  OF  CYRUS  (538-529  b.  c.) 

*  *  *  his  troops  (?) 

*  *  *  quarters  (of  the  world) 

*  *  *  a  weakling  was  appointed  to  the  government  of  his 

land 

*  *  *  a  similar  one  he  appointed  over  them, 

like  Esagila  he  made  *  *  *  to  Ur  and  the  rest  of  the 

cities, 
a  command  unbefitting  them  *  *  *  daily  he  planned  and, 

in  enmity, 
he  allowed  the  regular  offering'  to  cease;  he  appointed 

*  *  *  he  established  within  the  city.    As  for  the  wor- 
ship of  Marduk,  king  of  the  gods,  who  destroyed  (?) 

*  *  * 

he  showed  hostility  toward  his  city  daily  *  *  *  his  (peo- 
ple), he  brought  all  of  them  to  ruin  through  servi- 
tude without  rest. 

The  lord  of  the  gods  became  furious  with  anger  at  their 
complaints,  and  [abandoned]  their  territory.  The 
gods,  who  dwelt  among  them,  left  their  abodes. 


172        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

in  anger  that  he  had  brought  (strange  deities  •)  into  Baby- 
lon. Marduk  in  *  *  *  turned  (?)  to  all  the  habita- 
tions whose  sites  had  been  ruined, 

and  the  people  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  who  resembled 
corpses  *  *  *  he  granted  mercy.  He  searched 
through  all  lands,  he  saw  him, 

and  he  sought  the  righteous  prince,  after  his  own  heart, 
whom  he  took  by  the  hand.  Cyrus,  King  of  An- 
shan,  he  called  by  name;  to  sovereignty  over  the 
whole  world  he  appointed  him. 

The  country  of  Qutu,  all  the  Umman-manda,  he  made  sub- 
missive to  him.  As  for  the  Black-headed  People, 
whom  he  (Marduk)  caused  his  (Cyrus')  hands  to 
conquer, 

in  justice  and  right  he  cared  for  them.  Marduk,  the  great 
lord,  guardian  of  his  people,  looked  with  joy  on  his 
pious  works  and  his  upright  heart; 

he  commanded  him  to  go  to  his  city  Babylon,  and  he  caused 
him  to  take  the  road  to  Babylon,  going  by  his  side 
as  a  friend  and  companion. 

His  numerous  troops,  the  number  of  which,  like  the  waters 
of  a  river,  can  not  be  known,  in  full  armour,  marched 
at  his  side. 

Without  skirmish  or  battle  he  permitted  him  to  enter  Baby- 
lon. He  spared  his  city  Babylon  in  (its)  calamity. 
Nabonidus,  the  king,  who  did  not  reverence  him,  he 
delivered  into  his  hand. 

All  the  people  of  Babylon,  all  Sumer  and  Akkad,  nobles 
and  governors,  prostrated  themselves  before  him, 
kissed  his  feet,  rejoiced  at  his  sovereignty,  showed 
happiness  in  their  faces. 

The  lord,  who  by  his  power  brings  the  dead  to  life,  who 
with  (his)  care  and  protection  benefits  all  men — they 
gladly  did  him  homage,  they  heeded  his  command. 

I  am  Cyrus,  king  of  the  world,  the  great  king,  the  pow- 
erful king.  King  of  Babylon,  King  of  Sumer  and 
Akkad,  king  of  the  four  quarters  (of  the  world), 

'  With  Prince  Marduk. 


THE   CYLINDER  OF  CYRUS 


173 


son  of  Cambyses,  the  great  king,  King  of  Anshan;  grand- 
son of  Cyrus,  the  great  king.  King  of  Anshan;  great- 
grandson  of  Teispis,  the  great  king.  King  of  Anshan, 

of  ancient  seed-royal,  whose  reign  Bel  and  Nabu  love, 
whose  sovereignty  they  regard  necessary  to  their 
happiness.  When  I  made  my  gracious  entrance  into 
Babylon, 

with  joy  and  rejoicing  I  took  up  my  lordly  residence  in 
the  royal  palace.  Marduk,  the  great  lord,  [granted] 
me  favour  among  the  Babylonians,  and  I  gave  daily 
care  to  his  worship. 

My  numerous  troops  marched  peacefully  into  Babylon.  In 
all  Sumer  and  Akkad,  the  noble  race,  I  permitted  no 
unfriendly  treatment. 

I  gave  proper  attention  to  the  needs  of  Babylon  and  its 
cities.  The  Babylonians  *  *  *  as  much  as  they 
desired  *  *  *  the  servitude,  which  was  not  hon- 
ourable, was  removed  (?)  from  them. 

I  quieted  their  sighing  (and)  soothed  their  sorrow.  Marduk, 
the  great  lord,  rejoiced  over  my  [pious]  deeds,  and 

he  graciously  blessed  me,  Cyrus,  the  king  who  worships 
him,  and  Cambyses,  my  own  son,  and  all  my  troops, 

while  we,  in  his  presence,  and  with  sincerity,  gladly  lauded 
his  exalted  [divinity].  All  the  kings  dwelling  in 
royal  halls, 

of  all  the  quarters  (of  the  world),  from  the  Upper  to  the 
Lower  Sea,  dwelling  *  *  *  all  the  kings  of  the  west 
country,  who  dwell  in  tents, 

brought  me  their  heavy  taxes,  and  in  Babylon  kissed  my 
feet.     From  *  *  *  as  far  as  Asshur  and  Shushan, 

Agane,  Eshnunak,  Zamban,  Meturnu,  Durilu  as  far  as  the 
border  of  the  land  of  Quti,  the  cities  on  the  other 
side  of  the  Tigris,  whose  sites  were  of  ancient  foun- 
dation— 

the  gods,  who  dwelt  in  them,  I  restored  to  their  places,  and 
I  gave  them  a  habitation  for  all  time.  I  collected  all 
their  people  and  restored  (them)  to  their  dwelling- 
places 


174       ASSVrIAN  and   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

and  the  gods  of  Sumer  and  Akkad,  whom  Nabonidus,  to 
the  anger  of  the  lord  of  the  gods,  had  brought  into 
Babylon,  by  the  command  of  Marduk,  the  great 
lord,  peacefully 

in  their  own  shrines  I  made  them  dwell,  in  habitations  giv- 
ing joy  to  their  hearts.  May  all  the  gods  whom  I 
brought  into  their  own  cities, 

daily  before  Bel  and  Nabu  pray  that  I  may  have  a  long  life, 
may  they  speak  a  gracious  word  for  me,  and  may 
they  say  to  Marduk,  my  lord:  "  Cyrus,  the  king  who 
worships  thee,  and  Cambyses  his  son 

*  *  *  their  *  *  *."  I  permitted  all  the  lands  to  dwell  in 
quiet. 

[The  remainder  of  the  inscription  is  too  much  mutilated 
for  translation.] 


BRICK   OF  CYRUS 

Cyrus,  builder  of 
Esagila  and  Ezida, 
son  of  Cambyses, 
the  powerful  king,  am  I. 


THE   LARGE    INSCRIPTION    OF    DARIUS 
FROM    BEHISTUN 

[I  AM  Darius,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,]  the  Achaemenian,  king  of  all  men,  a  Persian, 
the  King  of  Persia. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  My  father  is  Hystaspes, 
the  father  of  Hystaspes  [is  Arsamnes,  the  father  of  Arsam- 
nes  is]  Ariaramnes,  the  father  of  Ariaramnes  is  Shishpish 
(Teispes),  the  father  of  Shishpish  is  Achaemenes. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  For  this  reason  [we  are 


THE   LARGE   INSCRIPTION  OF  DARIUS 


1 75 


called  Achaemenians,  from  of  old]  we  [have  been  tested,] 
from  of  old  (?)  (members)  of  our  family  have  been  kings. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Eight  members  of  my 
family  preceding  me  have  ruled  as  kings;  [I  am  the  ninth; 
in  two  lines  we  are  nine  kings.] 

[Thus]  speaks  [Darius  the  king:]  Under  the  protec- 
tion of  Ahura-mazda  I  am  king;  Ahura-mazda  gave  me 
the  sovereignty. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  These  [are  the  countries 
which  came  to  me;  by  the  will  of  Ahura-mazda]  I  became 
their  king:  Persia,  Elam,  Babylonia,  Assyria,  Arabia, 
Migir  (Egypt),  the  islands  in  the  gulf,  Sparda,  Ionia,  [Me- 
dia, Armenia,  Cappadocia,  Parthia,  Drangiana,]  Aremu 
(Aria),  Humarizmu  (Chorasmia),  Bactria,  Sogdiana,  Paru- 
paraesana,  Nammiri,  Satagu,  [Arachosia,  Maka — in  all 
twenty-three  countries.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:]  These  are  the  coun- 
tries which  obey  me,  under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda; 
they  became  subject  to  me,  [they  brought  me]  tribute, 
they  did  that  [which  I  commanded  them  by  night  or  day.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  The  prudent  man  within 
these  lands  [I  have  richly  rewarded;  the  hostile  I  have 
severely  punished;]  under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda 
I  have  established  my  ordinances  as  laws  in  the  midst  of 
these  countries;  [they  have  done  as  they  were  com- 
manded] by  me. 

Thus  speaks  [Darius  the  king:]  Ahura-mazda  gave 
me  my  sovereignty,  Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support 
until  [I  attained]  this  sovereignty;  [by  the  will  of  Ahura- 
mazda  this  kingdom]  is  subject  to  me. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  This  is  what  I  have  done 
under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda  since  I  have  become 
king.  [One  of  our  family,  Cambyses  by  name,  the  son 
of  Cyrus]  was  king  here  before  (me).  The  brother  of  this 
Cambyses  was  Bardiya  (Smerdis);  (they  had)  one  father 
and  one  mother.  [Now,  Cambyses  slew  this  Bardiya; 
when]  Cambyses  slew  Bardiya,  it  was  not  [known]  to  the 
people  that   Bardiya   had   been   slain.      Later   Cambyses 


176        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

[went]  to  Egypt;  [when  Cambyses]  had  gone  [to]  Egypt, 
then  the  people  became  hostile  in  heart,  and  treachery  be- 
came rife  in  the  provinces,  in  Persia,  and  in  Media,  [and 
also  in  the  other  provinces.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  There  was  a  certain 
man,  a  Magian,  Gaumata  by  name,  who  raised  a  rebellion] 
from  Pishihumadu,  where  is  a  mountain,  Arakatri  by  name; 
from  this  place,  on  the  fourteenth  day  of  the  month  of 
Adar,  he  [raised  a  rebellion;  he  deceived  the  people  (say- 
ing), "  I  am  Bardiya,  the  son  of  Cyrus,  the  brother  of] 
Cambyses  " ;  afterward  the  whole  people  became  hostile  to 
Cambyses  and  went  over  to  him — Persia  and  Media  [as 
well  as  the  other  provinces;  he  seized  the  sovereignty.  It 
was  the  ninth  day  of  the  month  of  Garmapada  when]  he 
seized  [the  sovereignty.]  Thereafter  Cambyses  committed 
suicide. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  [This  sovereignty,  which 
Gaumata  the  Magian  wrenched  from  Cambyses,]  this  (sov- 
ereignty) had  belonged  to  our  family  from  of  old;  after- 
ward this  Gaumata  the  Magian  [wrenched]  the  sover- 
eignty from  [Cambyses — both  Persia  and  Media,  as  well  as 
the  other  provinces;  he  acted  in  accord  with  his  own  will,] 
he  became  king. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  There  was  no  one,  [nei- 
ther Persian  nor  Median,  nor  any  of  our  family  who] 
could  take  the  sovereignty  away  from  this  Gaumata  the 
Magian.  The  people  feared  him  greatly;  [he  would  kill 
many  who  had  known  the  former  Bardiya;  for  this  reason 
he  would  kill  the  people,  "  that]  they  may  not  discover  (?) 
that  I  am  not  Bardiya,  the  son  of  Cyrus."  No  one  ven- 
tured to  say  anything  against  [Gaumata  the  Magian  until 
I  came.]  Afterward  I  prayed  to  Ahura-mazda;  Ahiira- 
mazda  was  my  strong  support;  under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda  [on  the  tenth  day  of  the  month  Bagayadish, 
I  with  a  few  men  slew]  this  [Gaumata]  the  Magian  and 
the  men  (of  note)  who  were  with  him.  In  the  city 
Sihiubati,  in  a  district  Nisa  by  name  which  is  in  Media, 
[I  slew  him;  I  took  the  sovereignty  away  from  him.    By 


THE   LARGE   INSCRIPTION   OF  DARIUS  177 

the  will  of  Ahura-mazda  I  became  king.]     Ahura-mazda 
gave  me  the  sovereignty. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  The  sovereignty  which 
[had  been  taken]  away  [from  our  family  I  restored  again;] 
I  established  [it  in  its  original  place,]  I  exercised  it.  [I 
restored]  the  temples  of  the  gods  which  this  Gaumata  the 
Magian  had  destroyed,  (and  I)  [restored  sustenance  for 
the  people,  the  flocks,  and  the  habitation  of  houses  (?), 
which]  this  Gaumata  the  Magian  had  taken  away  from 
them;  I  restored  the  people  to  their  place,  Persia,  Media, 
[and  the  other  provinces.  As  (it  was)  formerly,  I  replaced 
what  had  been  taken  away];  under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda,  I  did  this.  I  exercised  care  until  I  [rein- 
stated] our  house  in  its  place;  [as  (it  was)  formerly,  when 
this  Gaumata  the  Magian  had  not  removed  our  house,  [I 
exercised  care  (to  make  it)]  under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda. 

[Thus  speaks]  Darius  [the  king:  This  is  what  I  did 
aft-er  I  had  become  king.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  After  I  had  gone  and 
slain  Gaumata  the  Magian,  there  was  a  man  [Atrina 
(Ashina)  by  name,  the  son  of  Upadarma,  who]  rose  up  [in 
Susa]  and. spoke  as  follows:  "I  am  the  King  of  Elam"; 
thereupon  the  Elamites  became  hostile  to  me  [and  went 
over  to  that  Atrina;  he  became  king  in  Susa.  And  a  man, 
a  Babylonian,]  Nidintu-Bel  by  name,  the  son  of  Aniri,  rose 
up  in  Babylon,  deceiving  the  people  as  follows:  "  I  am 
[Nebuchadrezzar,  the  son  of  Nabonidus";  thereupon  the 
entire  Babylonian  people]  went  over  [to  that  Nidintu- 
Bel;]  Babylon  revolted,  he  seized  the  sovereignty  of 
Babylon. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  [Thereupon  I  sent  to 
Susa,  that  Atrina  was  brought  bound  to  me]  and  I  slew 
him. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Afterward  I  marched 

to  Babylon  against  [that  Nidintu-Bel  who  called  himself 

Nebuchadrezzar.    The  host]  of  Nidintu-Bel  had  taken  up  a 

position  on  ships  (?)  and  occupied  (?)  the  banks  (?)  of  the 

12 


178        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Tigris.  [Thereupon  I  divided  my  army  into  two  parts  (?); 
I  placed  the  one  on  camels,  the  other  I  supplied  with 
horses.]  Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support,  under  the 
protection  of  Ahura-mazda  we  crossed  the  Tigris.  I  smote 
[the  army  of  Nidintu-Bel;]  on  the  twenty-sixth  of  Kislev 
we  fought  the  battle. 

[Thus]  speaks  [Darius  the  king:]  Thereupon  I 
marched  to  Babylon;  before  Babylon  was  reached  there 
was  a  city  by  the  name  of  Zazanu  00  the  banks  of  the 
Euphrates;  [hither  that  Nidintu-Bel]  who  said,  "  I  am 
Nebuchadrezzar,"  [had  come  forth  against  me  with  his 
host  to  offer  battle] ;  thereupon  we  joined  battle;  Ahura- 
mazda  was  my  strong  support,  under,  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda  (I  smote)  the  host  of  Nidintu-Bel;  [the 
enemy  was  driven  into  the  water,  the  water  bore  him  away. 
On  the  second]  day  [of  the  month  of  Anamaka]  we  fought 
the  battle. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon  this  Nidintu- 
Bel,  accompanied  by  a  few  soldiers  upon  (horses)  [went 
to  Babylon.  Afterward]  I  (too)  went  [to  Babylon;]  un- 
der the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda  I  took  Babylon  and 
seized  Nidintu-Bel;  then  I  [slew  this  Nidintu-Bel]  in 
Babylon. 

[Thus  speaks]  Darius  [the  king:  While]  I  was  [in 
Babylon],  these  are  the  provinces  which  revolted  against 
me:  Persia,  Elam,  Media,  Assyria,  [Egypt,  Parthia,  Mar- 
giana,]  Satagu,  Nammiri. 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  There  was  a  man],  Mar- 
tiya  by  name,  the  son  of  Shinshahrish;  he  lived  in  the  city 
Kugunaka  in  Persia;  he  rose  up  in  Elam  [and  he  spoke 
to  the  people  as  follows:  "  I  am]  Imanisi,  King  [of  Elam."] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  At  that  time  I  was  in 
friendly  relations  with  Elam;  the  Elamites  feared  me;  they 
seized]  that  Martiya,  who  was  the  chief  over  them,  and  of 
their  own  accord  they  slew  him. 

[Thus  speaks]  Darius  the  king:  [A  man,]  Parumartish 
(Fravartish)  [by  name,  a  Median,  rose  up  in  Media;  he 
spoke  to  the  people]  as  follows:  "  I  am  Hashatriti,  of  the 


THE   LARGE   INSCRIPTION   OF   DARIUS 


179 


seed  of  Umaku-Ishtar  " ;  thereupon  the  people  of  Media, 
as  many  as  there  were  in  the  palace,  [rebelled]  against  me 
[and  went  over  to  this  Fravartish;  he  became  king  in] 
Media. 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  The  Persian  and  Median 
army  which  was  with  me  was  small;]  thereupon  I  sent 
the  army  to  Media;  (my)  servant,  Umidarna  (Vidarna)  by 
name,  a  Persian,  [I  placed  at  its  head.  I  spoke  to  him 
as  follows:  "  Go  smite  that  Median  army  which  does  not 
call  itself  mine."  Thereupon]  Umidarna  marched  to  Me- 
dia with  the  army.  As  he  approached  a  city,  Maru  by 
name,  which  is  in  Media,  [he  joined  battle  with  the  Medes. 
(He)  who  was  chief  among  the  Medes  did  not  maintain  (his 
position).  Ahura-mazda  bore  me  aid;]  under  the  protec- 
tion of  Ahura-mazda  my  army  smote  these  rebels.  On  the 
twenty-seventh  day  of  the  month  of  Tebet  they  engaged 
in  battle;  [there  is  a  place,  Kampada  by  name,]  which 
is  in  Media;  here  they  waited  for  me  until  I  came  to 
Media. 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  There  was  an  Arme- 
nian, Dadarshish  by  name,  a  servant  of  mine;  I  sent  him  to 
Armenia;  I  spoke  to  him  as  follows:  "  Go,]  smite  the  re- 
bellious army  which  does  not  obey  me";  [thereupon  Da- 
darshish went  forth.  When  he  arrived  in  Armenia  the 
rebels  assembled  themselves,  and  marched  against  Dadar- 
shish] to  give  battle.  Thereupon  Dadarshish  joined  battle 
with  them  in  a  city  called  Zuzu  in  Armenia.  [Ahura- 
mazda  bore  me  aid;  by  the  will  of  Ahura-mazda  my  army 
utterly  smote  that  rebellious  army.  On  the  eighth  day 
of  the  month  of  Thuravahara  the  battle  was  fought.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  A  second  time]  the 
rebels  assembled  themselves  and  marched  against  Dadar- 
shish to  give  battle.  Thereupon  they  joined  battle  [at  a 
stronghold  by  the  name  of  Tigra  in  Armenia.  Ahura- 
mazda  bore  me  aid;  by  the  will  of  Ahura-mazda  my  army 
utterly  smote  that  rebellious  army.  On  the  eighteenth 
day  of  the  month  of  Thuravahara  the]  battle  [was  fought.] 
They  killed  five  hundred  and  forty-six  of  them,  and  took 


l8o       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

five  hundred  and  twenty  alive.  Later,  for  a  third  time,  the 
rebels  [assembled  themselves  and  marched  against  Dadar- 
shish  to  give  battle;  at  a  stronghold  by  the  name  of  Uh- 
yama  in  Armenia,  they  joined  battle.  Ahura-mazda  bore 
me  aid;]  under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda  my  army 
smote  the  rebels.  On  the  ninth  day  of  the  month  Tishrit 
they  fought  the  battle.  [After  this  Dadarshish  waited 
in(active?)  for  me  until  I  came  to  Media.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  My  servant,  Umisi 
(Vaumisa)  by  name,  a  Persian  (I  sent)  to  Armenia.  [I 
spoke  to  him  as  follows:  "  Go,  smite  the  army  which  is 
rebellious  and  does  not  call  itself  mine."  Thereupon  Vau- 
misa went,  and  when  he  came  to  Armenia]  the  rebels  as- 
sembled themselves  and  marched  against  Umisi  to  give 
battle;  afterward  they  engaged  in  battle  [in  a  place  by  the 
name  of  Izitush  in  Assyria.  Ahura-mazda  bore  me  aid; 
by  the  will  of  Ahura-mazda  my  army  utterly  smote  that 
rebellious  army.  On  the  fifteenth  day  of  the  month  of 
Anamaka  the  battle  was  fought.]  They  killed  two  thou- 
sand and  twenty-four  of  them.  For  a  second  time  the 
rebels  assembled  and  marched  against  Umisi  to  give  battle; 
[at  a  place  Autiyara  by  name,  in  Armenia,  they  fought 
the  battle.  Ahura-mazda  bore  me  aid;  by  the  will  of 
Ahura-mazda  my  army]  smote  the  rebels.  On  the  thir- 
tieth day  of  the  month  of  Aru  they  engaged  in  battle. 
They  killed  two  thousand  and  forty-five  of  them,  and  took 
twenty-five  hundred  and  fifty-nine  alive.  [After  this  Vau- 
misa waited  in  Armenia  for  me  until  I  came  to  Media.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon  I  went  away 
from  Babylon  and  (proceeded)]  toward  Media.  As  I  ap- 
proached Media  (there  was)  a  city,  Kundur  by  name,  in 
Media;  thither  [marched  that  Fravartish,  who  called  him- 
self king  in  Media,  against  me  to  give  battle.  Thereupon 
we  fought  a  battle.]  Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support; 
under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda,  [I  smote]  the  army 
of  Parumartish.  [On  the  twenty-sixth  day  of  the  month 
of  Adukani  we  fought  the  battle.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereafter  that  Fravar- 


THE   LARGE   INSCRIPTION  OF  DARIUS  i8l 

tish]  departed  [thence  with]  a  few  horsemen  and  came  to 
a  district  by  the  name  of  Raga  in  Media.  Thereupon  [I 
sent]  an  army  [against  them.  Fravartish  was  seized  and 
brought  to  me.  I  cut  oflf  his  nose  (and)  ears,  and  I  cut  out 
his  tongue,  and  I  put  out  his  eyes.  At  my  court  he  was 
kept  in  chains;]  all  the  people  saw  him.  Later  I  crucified 
him  in  Ecbatana;  [and  the  men  who  were  his  most  promi- 
nent supporters  I  impaled  in  prison  in  Ecbatana.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  A  man,  Citrantakhma 
by  name,  a  Sagartian,  rebelled  against  me,]  and  spoke  to 
the  people  as  follows:  "  I  am  a  king  of  the  seed  of  Umaku- 
Ishtar."  Thereupon  I  (sent  forth)  a  Median  army;  [Takh- 
maspada,  my  servant,  I  made  their  chief.  I  spoke  to  them 
as  follows:  "  Go,  smite  the  army  which  has  rebelled  and 
does  not  call  itself  mine."  Thereupon  Takhmaspada  de- 
parted with  the  army  and]  he  engaged  [in  battle]  with 
Citrantakhma.  Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support; 
under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda,  [my  army  utterly 
smote  the  rebellious  army,  and  they  seized  Citrantakhma 
and  brought  him  to  me.  Then  I  cut  ofl  his  nose  and  ears 
and  put  out  his  eyes.  He  was  kept  in  chains  at  my  court;] 
all  the  people  saw  him.  Afterward  I  crucified  him  in 
Arbela.     The  totality  of  the  slain  and  living  *  *  * 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  This  is  what  was  done 
by  me  in  Media.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Parthia  and  Hyrcania 
rebelled,  and  declared  themselves  (supporters)  of]  Paru- 
martish  *  *  *  Hystaspes  my  father  lived  in  Parthia,  and 
[the  people  forsook  him  [in  a  body?].  Thereupon  Hys- 
taspes marched  away  with  the  army  which  (remained)  true. 
At  a  place  by  the  name  of  Vispauvatish,  in  Parthia,  they 
fought  the  battle].  Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support; 
under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda,  Hystaspes  smote 
these  rebels.  On  the  twenty-second  day  [of  the  month  of 
Viyakhna  the  battle  was  fought.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon  I  sent  a 
Persian  army  from  Raga  to  Hystaspes;]  when  the  army 
had  come  to  Hystaspes,  Hystaspes  (took)  that  army  [and 


l82        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

marched  forth.  At  a  place  by  the  name  of  Patigrabana, 
in  Parthia,  he  fought  a  battle  with  the  rebels.  Ahura- 
mazda  bore  me  aid;  by  the  will  of  Ahura-mazda,  Hystaspes 
utterly  smote  that  rebellious  army.  On  the  first  day  of  the 
month  Garmapada]  they  fought  the  battle.  They  killed 
sixty-five  hundred  and  seventy  of  them,  and  took  forty- 
one  hundred  and  ninety-two  alive. 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon  the  land 
became  mine.     This  is  what  was  done  by  me  in  Parthia.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  A  province,  Margu 
(Margiana)  by  name,  rebelled  against  me.  [They  made] 
a  man  by  the  name  of  Parada  (Frada)  [a  Margianian,  their 
chief.  Thereupon  I  sent  my  servant,  a  Persian,  by  the 
name  of  Dadarshish,  satrap  in  Bactria,  against  that  one. 
I  spoke  to  him  as  follows:  "  Go,  smite  the  army  which 
does  not  call  itself  mine."]  Thereupon  Dadarshish 
marched  forth  with  the  army;  they  fought  a  battle  with  the 
Margians.  [Ahura-mazda  bore  me  aid;  by  the  will  of 
Ahura-mazda  my  army  utterly  smote  that  rebellious  army. 
On  the  twenty-third  day  of  the  monfh  of  Atriyadiya  the 
battle  was  fought].  [They  killed]  forty-two  hundred  and 
three  of  them,  and  took  sixty-five  hundred  and  seventy-two 
alive. 

Thus  [speaks]  Darius  the  king:  [Thereupon  the  land 
became  mine.    This  is  what  was  done  by  me  in  Bactria.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  There  was  a  man, 
Vahyazdata] ;  he  dwelt  [in  a  place  by  the  name  of  Tarava, 
in  a  reigion]  by  the  name  of  [Yautiya,]  in  Persia.  He  rose 
up  in  Persia  and  spoke  to  the  people  [as  follows:  "  I  am 
Bardiya,  the  son  of  Cyrus."  Thereupon  the  Persian  people 
who  were  in  the  palace  broke  allegiance  (?);  they  rebelled 
against  me  and  went  over  to  that  Vahyazdata;  he  became 
king  in  Persia.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon  I  [sent  forth] 
the  Persian  army  [which  was  with  me;  I  made  a  Persian, 
named  Artavardiya,  a  servant  of  mine,  their  chief.  The 
rest]  of  the  Persian  army  marched  with  me  to  Media. 
Then  Artavardiya  [marched]  with  the  army  [to  Persia.  As 


THE   LARGE   INSCRIPTION   OF   DARIUS  183 

he  came  to  Persia  there  was  a  city  by  the  name  of  Rakha 
in  Persia;  hither  this  Vahyazdata,  who  called  himself  Bar- 
diya,  had  come  with  an  army  against  Artavardiya  to  offer 
battle.  Thereupon]  they  fought  the  battle.  Ahura-mazda 
was  my  strong  support;  under  the  protection  of  Ahura- 
mazda  [my  army  utterly  smote  that  army  of  that  Vahyaz- 
data. On  the  twelfth  day  of  the  month  of  Thuravahara 
the  battle  was  fought.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon]  this 
Vahyazdata  departed  with  a  few  horsemen  for  [Paishiyau- 
vada.  Thither  he  marched  again  with  an  army  against 
Vahyazdata  to  oflfer  battle.  At  a  mountain,  Paraga  by 
name,  they  engaged  in  battle.]  Ahura-mazda  was  my 
strong  support;  under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda  my 
army  smote  the  army  of  Vahyazdata.  [On  the  sixth  day 
of  the  month  of  Garmapada  the  battle  was  fought;  and 
they  seized  that  Vahyazdata  and  took  the  men  who  were 
his  chief  supporters.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereafter  I  crucified 
this  Vahyazdata  and  all  the  men  who  were  with  him;  [in 
a  city,  Uvadaicaya  by  name,  in]  Persia,  I  did  this. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  [That  Vahyazdata,  who 
called  himself  Bardiya,  sent  an  army  to  Arachosia  against 
a  Persian  named  Vivana,  my  servant,  the  satrap]  of 
Arachosia.  (He  spoke  to  them)  as  follows:  "  Go,  smite 
that  Vivana,  and  [the  army  which  calls  itself  (that)  of  King 
Darius."  Then  the  army  which  Vahyazdata  had  sent 
marched  against  Vivana  to  oflfer  battle.  At  the  strong- 
hold, Kapishakanish  by  name],  they  fought  the  battle. 
Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support;  under  the  protec- 
tion of  Ahura-mazda  [my]  army  [utterly  smote  that  re- 
bellious army.  On  the  thirteenth  day  of  the  month  of 
Anamaka  the  battle  was  fought.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  The  rebels  assembled 
themselves  again  and  marched  against  Vivana  to  oflfer 
battle.  In  a  region,  Gandutava  by  name],  they  fought  the 
battle.  Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support;  under  the 
protection  of  Ahura-mazda,  [my  army  utterly  smote  that 


1 84        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

rebellious  army.     On  the  seventh  day  of  the  month  Vi- 
yakhna  the  battle  was  fought.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:]  Thereupon  this  man, 
the  chief  of  the  army,  whom  Vahyazdata  had  sent  with  the 
army,  [departed  with  a  few  horsemen.  There  is  a  strong- 
hold, Arshada  by  name,  in  Arachosia;  he  passed  by  this. 
Hereupon  Vivana  followed  after  them  with  the  army  on 
foot;]  he  seized  him  and  slew  him,  and  he  also  slew  the 
men  who  were  with  him.  The  totality  of  the  dead  and  the 
living  of  the  army  *  *  * 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  This  is  what  I]  have 
done  in  Arachosia. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  While  I  [was  still]  in- 
Persia  and  Media,  [the  Babylonians  for  a  second  time  re- 
volted against  me.  A  man  by  the  name  of  Arahu,  an 
Armenian,  the  son  of  Haldita,  rose  up  in  Babylon.  There 
is  a  place  by  the  name  of  Dubala;  thence  he  rose  up;  he 
spoke  to]  the  people  of  Babylon  as  follows:  "  I  am  Nebu- 
chadrezzar, the  son  of  Nabonidus."  Thereupon  the  people 
of  Babylon  [rebelled]  against  me  [and  went  over  to  this 
Arakhu.    He  seized  Babylon,  he  became  king  in  Babylon.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thereupon  I  sent  an 
army  to  Babylon.  A  Median,  Vindafra  by  name,  a  servant 
of  mine,  I  made  their  chief.]  I  sent  [him]  forth  with 
orders  as  follows:  "  Go,  smite  the  army  of  the  rebels." 
[Thereupon  Vindafra  went  forth  with  the  army  to  Babylon. 
Ahura-mazda  bore  me  aid;  by  the  will  of  Ahura-mazda 
Vindafra  took  Babylon  and]  smote  the  army  of  Babylon, 
the  rebels  *  *  *  (and)  bound  them  (as  captives).  The 
army  in  whose  midst  *  *  *  bound  (?).  Thereupon  I  gave 
orders  as  follows:  Arahu  and  the  men  [who  were  his 
most  prominent  supporters  shall  be  crucified  in  Babylon]. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  This  is  what  I  have  done 
in  Babylon. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  That  which  I  [did  came 
to  pass  solely  through  the  grace  of  Ahura-mazda.  Since 
I  have  been  king  I  have  fought  nineteen  battles;  by  the 
will  of  Ahura-mazda  I  smote  them.]     Nine  of  their  kings  I 


THE   LARGE   INSCRIPTION  OF  DARIUS  185 

took  prisoners:  One,  Gaumata  by  name,  the  Magian,  lied 
and  spoke  as  follows:  ["  I  am  Bardiya,  the  son  of  Cyrus." 
This  one  made  Persia  rebellious.  One,  by  the  name  of 
Atrina,  the  Susian,  lied  and  spoke  as  follows-:  "  I  am  the 
King  of  Susa  (Elam)."  This  one]  made  Elam  rebellious. 
One,  Nidintu-Bel  by  name,  a  Babylonian,  lied  and  spoke 
as  follows:  "  I  am  Nebuchadrezzar  [the  son  of  Nabonidus." 
This  one  made  Babylon  rebellious.  One  by  the  name  of 
Martiya,  a  Persian,  lied  and  spoke  as  follows:  "  I  am  Um- 
manish.  King  of  Susa."  This  one]  made  [Susa]  rebellious. 
One,  Parumartish  by  name,  a  Median,  lied  and  spoke  as 
follows:  "  I  am  Hashatriti  [of  the  seed  of  Umaku-Ishtar." 
This  one  made  Media  rebellious.  One,  Citrantakhma  by 
name,  a  Sagartian,  lied  and  spoke  as  follows:  "  1  am  King 
of  Sagartia,  of  the  seed  of]  Umaku-Ishtar."  This  one 
made  Sagartia  rebellious.  One,  Parada  by  name,  a  Mar- 
gianian,  [lied  and  spoke  as  follows:  "  I  am  king  in  Mar- 
giana."  This  one  made  Margiana  rebellious.  One,  Va- 
hyazdata  by  name,  a  Persian,  lied  and  spoke  as  follows: 
"  I  am  Bardiya,  the  son  of  Cyrus."]  This  one  made  Persia 
rebellious.  One,  Arahu  by  name,  an  Armenian,  lied  and 
spoke  as  follows:  "  I  am  Nebuchadrezzar,  the  son  of  Na- 
bonidus."    This  one  made  Babylon  rebellious. 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  [These  nine  kings]  the 
hands  of  my  army  seized  within  [these  battles.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  As  for  these  provinces 
which  became  rebellious,  a  lie  made  them  rebellious,  so  that 
they  deceived]  the  people.  Thereupon  Ahura-mazda  gave 
them  into  my  hands;  [according  to  my  desire  I  treated 
them.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king;  O  thou  who  art  to  be 
king  in  the  future  guard  thyself  carefully  against  lying.] 
Exact  much  of  the  man  who  lies  when  thou  wouldst  say, 
["  My  country  shall  be  unharmed."] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Ahura-mazda  was  my 
strong]  support  in  what  I  did.  The  inscription  which  thou 
beholdest  on  the  tablet  *  *  *  [May  what  I  have  done  ap- 
pear credible  to  thee!    Do  not  regard  it  as  a  lie  *  *  *] 


l86        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  As  a  worshipper  of 
Ahura-mazda  (I  swear?)  that  this  is  true,  not  false,  what  I 
have  done  in  every  particular.] 

Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda  [many  other  things  also  were  done  by  me 
which  are  not  written  in  this  inscription.  For  this  reason 
they  were  not  written,  lest  he  who]  shall  read  [this  inscrip- 
tion later]  shall  say,  these  are  lies. 

Thus  [speaks]  Darius  the  king:  [As  long  as  the  former 
kings  were  (in  power)  they  did  not  do  what  I  have  ac- 
complished solely  through  the  grace  of  Ahura-mazda.] 

Thus  speaks  [Darius]  the  king:  Now,  according  as  I 
have  done  and  the  weighty  *  *  *  [may  it  appear  credible. 
Do  thou  believe,  wherefore  destroy  it  not.  If  thou  dost 
not  destroy  this  inscription,  but  dost  communicate  it  to 
the  people,  may  Ahura-mazda  be  thy  friend,  thy  family 
numerous,  and]  thy  days  long!  But  if  thou  dost  conceal 
these  words  from  the  people,  [then  may  Ahura-mazda  slay 
thee,  and  may  thy  family  come  to  naught!] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  That  which  I  have 
done]  I  did  [solely]  under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda. 
Ahura-mazda  was  my  strong  support,  and  the  (other)  gods 
[as  many  as  there  are.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  For  this  reason  Ahura- 
mazda,  and  the  other  gods,  as  many  as  there  are,  bore  me 
aid,  because  I  was  not  hostile,  was  not  false,  did  not]  ex- 
ercise [despotism,]  neither  I  nor  my  family;  according  to 
the  laws  [have  I  ruled.  Against  neither  *  *  *  nor  *  *  * 
have  I  used  force.  The  man  who  has  supported  my  house, 
him  have  I  protected  well;  he  who  has  brought  evil,  him 
have  I  severely  punished.] 

[Thus]  speaks  [Darius  the  king:]  Whoever  thou  art 
who  rulest  after  me,  a  man  who  lies  or  a  man  [who  is 
rebellious  do  thou  not  befriend,  but  punish  him  severely.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:]  When  thou  beholdest 
this  inscription  and  these  images,  [destroy  them  not,  but 
guard  them  so  long  as  thou  livest.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  When  thou  beholdest 


THE   SMALLER  ACH^EMENIAN   INSCRIPTIONS       187 

this  tablet  and  these  images,  and  dost  not  destroy  but 
guardest  them  for  me  as  long  as  thy  family  continues,  then 
may  Ahura-mazda  be  thy  friend;  may  thy  family  be  numer- 
ous, may]  thy  days  [be  long,]  and  may  Ahura-mazda  pros- 
per [what  thou  doest!] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  When  thou  beholdest 
this  tablet  and  these  images,  and  destroyest  them,  guard- 
est them  not  for  me  so  long  as  thy  family  continues,  then] 
may  Ahura-mazda  curse  [thee,  may  thy  family  come  to 
naught,  and  what  thou  doest  may  Ahura-mazda  destroy!] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  These  are  the  rhen 
who]  were  by  me  when  I  [slew]  this  Gaumata  [the  Ma- 
gian,  who  called  himself  Bardiya.  At  that  time  these  men 
assisted  me  as  my  supporters :  one,  Vindaf rana  by  name,  son 
of]  Uizparu,  a  Persian;  one,  Umitana  by  name,  son  of 
Suhra,  a  Persian;  [one,  Gaubaruva  by  name,  son  of  Mar- 
duniya,  a  Persian;  one,  Vidarna,  son  of  Bagabigna,  a  Per- 
sian; one,  Bagabukhsha]  by  name,  son  of  Zatu,  a  Per- 
sian; and  one,  Ardimanish  by  name,  son  of  Ushuhku,  [a 
Persian.] 

[Thus  speaks  Darius  the  king:  Thou  who  later  dost 
become  king]  *  *  *  these  *  *  *  much  *  *  * 


THE   SMALLER  ACHiEMENIAN 
INSCRIPTIONS 

I.    CYRUS   INSCRIPTION 
I  AM  Cyrus,  the  Achasmenian. 

II.    SEAL  INSCRIPTION  OF  DARIUS 
I  am  Darius,  the  great  king. 

III.    DARIUS   INSCRIPTION   FROM   KERMAN 
I  am  Darius,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  king  of  this  earth,  the  son  of  Hystaspes,  the 
Achaemenian. 


I88        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


IV,    THE  SMALLER  INSCRIPTIONS  FROM   BEHISTUN 

1.  This  is  Gaumata  the  Magian,  who  lied,  saying,  "  I 
am  Barzia  (Bardiya),  the  son  of  Cyrus." 

2.  This  is  Ashina  (Atrina),  who  lied,  saying,  "  I  am 
King  of  Elam." 

3.  This  is  Nidintu-Bel,  who  lied,  saying,  "  I  am  Nebu- 
chadrezzar, son  of  Nabonidus." 

4.  This  is  Parumartish  (Fravartish),  who  lied,  saying, 
"  I  am  Hashatriti  (Khshathrita),  of  the  seed  of  Umaku- 
Ishtar  (Cyaxares)." 

5.  This  is  Martiya,  who  lied,  saying,  "  I  am  Imanisi, 
King  of  Elam." 

6.  This  is  Shitrantahmu  (Citrantakhma),  who  lied,  say- 
ing, "  I  am  of  the  seed  of  Umaku-Ishtar  (Cyaxares)." 

7.  This  is  Umizdatu  (Vahyazdata),  who  lied,  saying,  "  I 
am  Barzia  (Bardiya),  the  son  of  Cyrus." 

8.  This  is  Arahu,  who  lied,  saying,  "  I  am  Nebuchad- 
rezzar, the  son  of  Nabonidus." 

9.  This  is  Parada  (Frada),  who  lied,  saying,  "  I  am  a 
king,  the  ruler  of  Margu  (Margiana)." 

V.    THE  LARGE  NAQS-I-RUSTAM   INSCRIPTION 

The  great  God  of  gods  is  Ahura-mazda  (Ormazd),  who 
has  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  who  also  created 
mankind,  who  has  granted  favour  to  mankind,  who  cre- 
ated Darius,  king  of  many  kings. 

I  am  Darius,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  king  of  all  the  various  tongues,  king  of  the 
broad,  large  earth,  son  of  Ushtazpa  (Hystaspes),  the  Achse- 
menian,  a  Persian,  the  son  of  a  Persian. 

Darius  the  king  says:  Under  the  protection  of  Ahura- 
mazda  I  have  annexed  the  following  countries  to  Persia; 
I  exercise  authority  over  them,  and  they  bring  me  tribute; 
they  carry  out  in  submission  whatever  orders  they  receive 
from  me,  and  they  hold  my  commands  in  high  regfard: 
Media,  Elam,  Parthia,  Aremu  (Aria),  Bactria,  Sogdiana, 


THE  SMALLER  ACH/EMENIAN   INSCRIPTIONS      189 

Chorasmia,  Zaranga  (Drangiana),  Arachosia,  Sattagydia, 
the  Gandarans,  India,  the  Nammiri-Umurga,  the  Nam- 
miri  *  *  *^  Babylonia,  Assyria,  Arabia,  Egypt,  Ar- 
menia, Cappadocia,  Saparda,  Ionia,  the  Nammiri  of  the 
other  side  of  the  sea,  Izkuduru,  the  other  lonians,  who 
wear  braid- work  (?)  upon  their  heads,  Puta  (Putiya),  Kushu 
(Kushiya),  the  Maciya,  Kirka  (Karka). 

Darius  the  king  says:  When  Ahura-mazda  saw  that 
these  countries  were  hostilely  inclined  and  overbearing  to- 
ward each  other,  he  gave  them  to  me,  and  appointed  me  to 
sovereignty  over  them;  I  (became)  king.  Under  the  pro- 
tection of  Ahura-mazda  I  pacified  them,  and  what  I  com- 
mand them  they  carry  out  just  as  I  desire.  And  if  thou 
sayest.  How  did  these  countries  become  the  property  of 
Darius  the  king?  then  look  upon  all  the  figures  of  those  who 
bear  my  throne;  therein  thou  shalt  recognise  them.  Then 
thou  mayest  understand  how  far  the  lance  of  a  Persian  man 
has  gone;  then  thou  mayest  understand  how  far  from  his 
land  a  Persian  man  has  made  war. 

Darius  the  king  says:  All  this  which  I  have  done  I  did 
under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda;  Ahura-mazda  was 
my  strong  support  until  I  accomplished  it.  May  Ahura- 
mazda  protect  me  from  all  evil,  and  also  my  house,  and 
this  my  country;  I  pray  to  Ahura-mazda;  may  Ahura- 
mazda  gi-ant  it!  O  man,  what  Ahura-mazda  commands 
shall  not  fall  heavily  upon  thee. 

VI.    THE  SMALLER  INSCRIPTIONS  FROM   NAQS-I-RUSTAM 

1.  Kubara,  a  Patishhurish,  the  spear-bearer  of  Darius 
the  king. 

2.  This  is  Azpahina,  of  Darius  the  king  *  *  * 

3.  These  are  the  Maciya-men  (?). 

VII.    PERSEPOLIS   INSCRIPTION   (B) 

Darius,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of  countries, 
king  of  all  the  various  tongues,  son  of  Hystaspes,  the 
Achaemenian,  who  has  built  this  house. 


190 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


VIII.    INSCRIPTION   FROM   HAMADAN 

A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  who  has  created  this  earth, 
who  has  created  these  heavens,  who  created  mankind,  who 
bestowed  all  this  abundance  on  mankind,  who  made  Darius 
a  king,  unique  among  the  former  kings,  unique  among  the 
former  rulers. 

I  am  Darius,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  of  all  the  various  tongues,  king  of  this  large 
broad  earth,  son  of  Hystaspes,  the  Achaemenian. 


IX.    WINDOW  INSCRIPTION 
Window  casings  *  *  *  made  in  the  palace  of  Darius. 


X.    PERSEPOLIS   INSCRIPTION   (H) 

Great  is  Ahura-mazda,  who  is  chief  over  all  the  gods, 
who  has  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth  and  has  cre- 
ated mankind,  who  bestows  only  favour  upon  mankind, 
whereby  they  live,  who  has  created  Darius  the  king,  and 
has  granted  Darius  the  king  sovereignty  over  this  broad 
earth,  in  which  are  many  countries — Persia,  Media,  and  the 
other  lands  and  other  tongues,  mountains,  and  the  level 
country  of  this  side  of  the  sea  and  the  other  side  of  the 
sea,  this  side  of  the  desert  land  and  of  the  other  side  of 
the  desert  land. 

Darius  the  king  says:  Under  the  protection  of  Ahura- 
mazda,  these  are  the  countries  which  do  that  which  I  place 
on  them  as  commands;  (countries)  which  muster  here: 
Persia,  Media,  and  other  lands  and  other  tongues;  the 
mountains  and  the  level  country  of  this  side  of  the  sea 
and  the  other  side  of  the  sea,  of  this  side  of  the  desert 
land  and  of  the  other  side  of  the  desert  land.  All  that  I 
have  done  I  have  accomplished  under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda.  May  Ahura-mazda,  together  with  all  the 
gods,  protect  me  and  my  rule! 


THE   SMALLER   ACHyEMENIAN   INSCRIPTIONS 


191 


XI.    PERSEPOLIS  INSCRIPTION   (G) 

Xerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  the  son  of  Darius 
the  king,  the  Achaemenian. 

XII.  XERXES   INSCRIPTION   (D) 

A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  who  has  created  this 
earth,  who  has  created  these  heavens,  who  created  man- 
kind, who  has  granted  favour  to  mankind,  who  created 
Xerxes,  the  king,  unique  among  many  kings,  unique 
among  many  rulers. 

I  am  Xerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  (king)  of  all  tongues,  king  of  this  large,  broad 
earth,  son  of  Darius  the  king,  the  Achaemenian. 

Xerxes  the  king  says:  Under  the  protection  of  Ahura- 
mazda  I  have  built  this  gate,  Visadahyu  by  name,  and 
many  other  structures  have  I  built  in  this  land  of  Persia; 
what  I  have  built  and  what  my  father  has  built,  and  those 
which  are  in  existence  and  can  be  seen,  all  these  we  have 
built  under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda. 

Xerxes  the  king  says:  May  Ahura-mazda  protect  me, 
and  what  pertains  to  my  sovereignty,  and  my  countries, 
and  what  I  have  built  and  what  my  father  has  built,  that 
also,  whatever  it  be,  may  Ahura-mazda  protect  it! 

XIII.  XERXES   INSCRIPTION  (E) 

A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  who  has  created  this  earth, 
who  has  created  these  heavens,  who  created  mankind,  who 
has  granted  favour  to  mankind,  who  bestowed  the  sov- 
ereignty on  Xerxes,  as  unique  among  many  kings,  (as 
unique)  among  many  rulers. 

I  am  Xerxes,  the  great  king,  the  king  of  kings,  the  king 
of  countries,  king  of  all  tongues,  the  king  of  this  large, 
broad  earth,  son  of  Darius  the  king,  the  Achaemenian. 

Xerxes  the  great  king  says:  That  which  I  have  done 
here,  and  that  which  I  have  done  in  another  territory,  all 
which  I  have  done,  I  have  accomplished  under  the  pro- 


192 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


tection  of  Ahura-mazda.  May  Ahura-mazda,  together  with 
the  other  gods,  protect  me  and  my  sovereignty  and  that 
which  I  have  done! 

XIV.    PERSEPOLIS   INSCRIPTION  (Ca) 

A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  who  has  created  the 
heavens,  and  has  created  this  earth,  who  created  man- 
kind, who  has  granted  favour  to  mankind,  who  created 
Xerxes  the  king,  king  of  many  kings,  who  alone  rules  over 
all  the  various  lands. 

I  am  Xerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  (king)  of  all  the  various  tongues,  king  of  this 
great,  broad  earth,  the  son  of  Darius  the  king,  the  Achae- 
menian. 

Xerxes,  the  great  king,  says:  Under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda,  my  father,  Darius  the  king,  built  this  house. 
May  Ahura-mazda,  together  with  all  the  gods,  protect  me 
and  what  I  have  built,  and  what  my  father,  Darius  the 
king,  has  built;  this  also  may  Ahura-mazda,  together  with 
all  the  gods,  protect! 

XV.    PERSEPOLIS   INSCRIPTION  (Cb) 

A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  who  has  created  the 
heavens  and  has  created  this  earth,  who  created  mankind, 
who  has  granted  favour  to  mankind,  who  created  Xerxes 
the  king,  king  of  many  kings,  who  alone  rules  over  all  the 
various  lands. 

I  am  Xerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  (king)  of  all  the  various  tongues,  king  of  this 
great,  broad  earth,  son  of  Darius  the  king,  the  Achae- 
menian. 

Xerxes  the  great  king  says:  Under  the  protection  of 
Ahura-mazda,  Darius  the  king,  my  father,  built  this  house. 
May  Ahura-mazda,  together  with  all  the  gods,  protect  me, 
and  what  I  have  constructed;  and  what  Darius  the  king, 
my  father,  has  constructed,  this  also  may  Ahura-mazda, 
together  with  all  gods,  protect! 


THE   SMALLER   ACH^MENIAN   INSCRIPTIONS 


XVI.    INSCRIPTION   FROM   ELVEND 


193 


A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  chief  of  the  gods,  who 
has  created  this  earth,  who  has  created  these  heavens,  who 
created  this  humanity,  who  has  granted  favour  to  man- 
kind, who  created  Xerxes  the  king,  unique  among  many 
kings,  unique  among  former  rulers. 

I  am  Xerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  king  of  all  lands,  king  of  this  great,  broad  earth, 
son  of  Darius  the  king,  the  Achaemenian. 

XVII.    XERXES   INSCRIPTION   FROM  VAN 

A  great  god  is  Ahura-mazda,  chief  of  the  gods,  who  has 
created  the  heavens  and  has  created  the  earth,  and  has 
created  mankind,  who  has  granted  favour  to  mankind,  who 
created  Xerxes  the  king,  king  of  many  kings,  who  alone 
rules  over  all  the  various  countries. 

I  am  Xerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of 
countries,  king  of  all  the  various  tongues,  king  of  this 
great,  broad  earth,  son  of  Darius  the  king,  the  Achae- 
menian. 

Xerxes  the  king  says:  Darius  the  king,  who  is  my 
father — under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda,  many  are  the 
structures  which  he  built;  and  he  gave  orders  to  build  this 
mountain  *  *  *  but  he  did  not  write  thereon.  Later  I 
gave  orders  to  write  (thereon).  May  Ahura-mazda,  to- 
gether with  all  the  gods,  protect  me  and  my  sovereignty 
and  what  I  have  done! 

XVIII.    INSCRIPTION  OF  ARTAXERXES  MNEMON 

Artaxerxes,  the  great  king,  king  of  kings,  king  of  the 
countries  which  are  on  the  face  of  the  whole  earth,  son 
of  Darius  the  king,  says:  Darius  the  king  was  the  son 
of  Artaxerxes  the  ^cing,  Artaxerxes  the  king  was  the  son 
of  Xerxes  the  king,  Xerxes  the  king  was  the  son  of  Darius 
the  king,  Darius  the  king  was  the  son  of  Hystaspes  of 
Achaemenian  seed. 
13 


194 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


This  building,  by  the  name  of  Appadan,  Darius,  my 
great-great-grandfather,  erected  on  yon  mountain  (?).  In 
the  time  of  Artaxerxes,  my  grandfather,  fire  destroyed  it. 
Under  the  protection  of  Ahura-mazda,  Anahitu,  and  Mitri 
[I  built  anew  this  structure  by  the  name  of  Appadan]. 
May  Ahura-mazda,  Anahitu,  and  Mitri  protect  [me  from 
all  evil]  and  [not]  destroy  or  ruin  [what  I  have  done] ! 

XIX.    FRAGMENT  (Sb) 

*  *  *  Artaxerxes,  the  great  king,  *  *  * 

*  *  *  earth,  son  of  Darius  *  *  * 

Artaxerxes  the  king  under  the  protection  of  Ahura- 
[Mazda]  *  *  * 

XX.    INSCRIPTION   OF  ARTAXERXES  I 

*  *  *  unique  [among  many  rulers],  I  am  [Artaxerxes, 
the  great  king,  king]  of  kings,  king  of  countries,  [king 
of  all  tongues],  king  of  this  [great,  broad]  earth,  [son] 
of  Xerxes  [the  king,  son  of  Darius  the  king],  the  Achae- 
menian. 

Artaxerxes  [the  king  says] :  Under  the  protection  [of 
Ahura-mazda]  I  have  established  this  house  [which  I  have 
built  and  which]  my  father  [built].  May  [Ahura-mazda] 
protect  me  [and  what  I  have  done]  and  my  sovereignty 
[and  my  countries] ! 

XXI.    VENICE   INSCRIPTION  (Q) 
Artaxerxesj  the  great  king. 


INSCRIPTION    OF   ANTIOCHUS-SOTER, 
KING  OF   BABYLON  (280-260  b.  c) 

Antiochus,  the  great  king,  the  powerful  king,  king  of 
the  world,  King  of  Babylon,  king  of  lands,  patron  of  Esa- 
gila  and  Ezida,  chief  son  of  Seleucus,  king  of  the  Mace- 
donians, King  of  Babylon,  am  I. 


INSCRIPTION   OF  ANTIOCHUS-SOTER  195 

When  my  heart  incited  me  to  rebuild  Esagila  and  Ezida, 
and  I  made  bricks  for  Esagila  and  Ezida  in  the  land  of 
the  Hittites  with  my  white  hands  with  oil  *  *  *  and  to 
lay  the  foundation  of  Esagila  and  Ezida  I  *  *  *  In  the 
month  Adar,  on  the  twentieth  day,  in  the  forty-third  year, 
I  laid  the  foundation  of  Ezida,  the  eternal  temple,  the 
Temple  of  Nabu  in  Borsippa. 

O  Nabu,  exalted  son,  powerful  leader  of  the  gods,  who 
for  exaltation  was  bom  (established),  the  first-born  son  of 
Marduk,  oflfspring  of  Erua,  the  queen,  who  controls  birth, 
look  with  favour,  and  by  thy  exalted  command,  which  can 
not  be  altered,  the  overthrow  of  the  country  of  my  enemy, 
the  victory  of  my  power,  suzerainty  over  my  foes,  a  king- 
dom of  righteousness,  a  reign  (full)  of  rejoicing,  years  of 
good  cheer,  abundance  of  offspring,  as  a  present  to  the 
kingdom  of  Antiochus,  and  of  Seleucus,  the  king,  his  son 
[do  thou  grant]  for  all  time! 

O  Nabu,  son  of  Esagila,  first-born  of  Marduk,  of  high- 
est rank,  ofifspring  of  Erua,  the  queen,  when  thou  enterest 
with  joy  and  rejoicing  into  Ezida,  the  eternal  temple,  the 
temple  of  thy  divinity,  the  dwelling  which  cheers  thy  heart, 
at  thy  righteous  command,  which  can  not  be  hindered,  may 
my  days  be  long! 

May  my  years  be  many! 

May  my  throne  be  (firmly)  established! 

May  my  reign  become  old! 

With  thy  exalted  sceptre,  that  holds  fast  the  circuit  of 
heaven  and  earth,  at  thy  bright  mouth  (illustrious  com- 
mand) may  they  establish  my  good  fortune! 

The  lands  from  the  rising  of  the  sun  to  the  setting  of 
the  sun,  may  my  hands  conquer! 

May  I  force  tribute  from  them,  and  for  the  completion 
of  Esagila  and  Ezida  may  I  bring  (it) ! 

O  Nabu,  chief  son,  when  thou  enterest  into  Ezida,  the 
eternal  temple,  good  fortune  for  Antiochus,  king  of  lands, 
Seleucus,  the  king,  his  son,  Stratonice,  his  consort,  the 
queen — may  their  good  fortune  be  (firmly)  established  at 
thy  command! 


196        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

THE  SYNCHRONOUS   HISTORY  OF 
ASSYRIA  AND    BABYLONIA 

Based  on  the  collation  of  Winckler 

Karaindash,  King  of  Kardu[niash],  and  Ashurbelni- 
sheshu,  King  of  Assyria,  made  compacts  with  one  another, 
and  each  of  his  accord  gave  an  oath  to  the  other  concern- 
ing the  boundary. 

Puzur-Ashur,  King  of  Assyria,  and  Burnaburiash,  King 
of  Karduniash,  held  a  conference  and  fixed  the  boundary 
of  the  territory  by  mutual  consent. 

In  the  time  of  Ashuruballit,  King  of  Assyria,  the  Kas- 
site  troops  rebelled  against  Karahardash,  King  of  Karduni- 
ash, son  of  Muballitat-Sherua,  daughter  of  Ashuruballit, 
killed  him  (and)  made  Nazibugash  [son  of  Nobojdy,  their 
king. 

To    av[enge    Karjahardash    [Ashuruballit]    marched 

*  *  *  to  Karduniash,  killed  [Najzibugash,  King  of  Kardu- 
[ni]ash,  made  [Kuri]galzu,  the  younger  son  of  Burnaburi- 
ash, king  and  set  him  on  his  father's  throne. 

In  the  time  of  Belnirari,  King  of  Assyria,  Kurigalzu 
the  younger  (was)  [the  King  of  Karduniash] .  Bel-nirari, 
King  of  Assyria,  fought  with  him  in  Sugagi  on  the  river 

*  *  *  defeated  him  and  carried  away  his  troops,  [his 
camp]  and  his  supplies.  From  the  border  (?)  of  the  land 
of  Shubari  [to]  Karduniash  they  divided  the  land,  took 
equal  parts  (and)  fixed  the  boundary. 

Rammannirari,  King  of  Assyria,  (and)  Nazimaraddash, 
King  of  Karduniash,  fought  with  one  another  in  Kar-Ishtar 
of  Akarsallu.  Rammannirari  defeated  Nazimaraddash, 
overthrew  him  (and)  carried  away  his  camp  *  *  *  Con- 
cerning the  boundary  of  the  territory — they  fixed  by  mu- 
tual consent  (?)  their  boundaries  from  the  land  of  Pilaski 
on  the  other  side  of  the  Tigris  (and  from)  Arman-Akar- 
sallu  to  Lulume,  established  them  and  took  equal  parts.* 

'  A  fragment  follows  :  ♦  •  *  King  of  Karduni[ash]  •  *  *  in  the  midst 
of  battle  *  *  * 


THE  EASTERN   WORLD  IN  THE  MIDDLE  OF 
THE  REIGN  OF  ASHURBANIPAL. 


THE   HISTORY  OF  ASSYRIA   AND  BABYLONIA      197 

*  *  *  ^  paid  him  homage  *  *  *  as  far  as  Kullaar  *  *  * 
Belkuduru9ur,  King  of  Assyria,  and  [Ramman(?)balid- 

dina  (?),  King  of  Karduniash]  fought.  Belkuduruqur 
killed  Ramman(?)baliddina  (?)  in  battle.  Ninibabaleshara 
*  *  *  returned  to  his  land,  [collected]  his  [nume]rous 
forces  *  *  *  (and)  marched  to  Asshur  to  conquer  it. 
He  fought  therein,  retreated  [and  returned  to  his  land]. 

In  the  time  of  Zamamashumiddin,  King  of  [Karduni- 
ash] *  *  *  Ashurdan,  King  of  Assyria,  marched  to  Kar- 
du[niash],  [captured]  Zaban,  Irria,  Akarsal[lu,  *  *  *  car- 
ried away]  their  rich  [spoil]  to  Assyria  *  *  * 

*  *  *  he  re  [treated]  (and)  returned  to  his  country. 
[Nebuchadrezzar]  marched  after  him,  carrying  his  siege- 
engines  to  Zaanqi,  the  fortress  of  *  *  *  to  conquer  (it). 
Ashurreshishi,  King  of  Assyria,  collected  his  chariots  to 
march  against  him.  Nebuchadrezzar,  because  his  siege- 
engines  were  surrounded,  burned  his  camp  (?)  with  fire, 
retreated  and  returned  to  his  country.  Nebuchadrezzar, 
with  chariots  and  infantry,  marched  to  the  fortress  on  the 
border  of  Assyria  to  conquer  it.  Ashurreshishi  sent  chari- 
ots (and)  infantry  to  its  relief,  fought  with  him,  defeated 
him,  slew  his  forces,  (and)  carried  away  his  supplies.  They 
brought  back  forty  of  his  chariots  with  trappings.  They 
captured  Karashtu,  the  leader  of  his  forces. 

Tiglath-pileser,  King  of  Assyria,  (and)  Marduk-nadi- 
nahe.  King  of  Karduniash,  set,  for  the  second  time,  in  the 
district  of  the  city  Arzuhina,  in  battle  array  all  the  chariots, 
which  were  above  the  lower  Zab.  In  the  second  year  he 
fought  in  Marriti,  which  is  in  upper  Akkad.  He  captured 
Durkurigalzu,  Sippar  of  Shamash,  Sippar  of  Anunit,  Baby- 
lon, Upi,  great  cities  with  their  citadels.  At  that  time  he 
plun[dered]  Akarsal[lu]  as  far  as  Lubdu  (and)  [subju- 
gated] all  the  land  of  Suhi  as  far  as  Rapiqu. 

In  the  time  of  Ashurbelkala,  King  of  [Assyria],  Mar- 
dukshapikkullat  (was)  the  King  of  Kardu  [niash] .  They 
made  friendship  (and)  per  [feet]  alliance  with  one  another. 
In  the  time  of  Ashurbelkala,  King  of  Assyria,  Marduk- 

'  Part  of  another  broken  tablet. 


198       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

shapikkullat  was  [driven  out]  by  his  country.  Ramman- 
baliddina,  son  of  Esakkuruna,  son  of  Nobody,  they  made 
their  king.  Ashurbelkala,  King  of  As[syria],  married 
the  daughter  of  Rammanbaliddina,  King  of  Karduniash 
(and)  brought  her  to  Assyria  with  her  rich  dowry.  The 
people  of  Assyria  (and)  of  Karduniash  *  *  *  with  each 
other  *  *  * 

In  the  time  of  Rammannirari,  King  of  Assjrria,  Sha- 
mashmudammiq,  King  of  Karduniash,  set  his  battle  array 
at  the  foot  of  Mount  Yalman.  Rammannirari,  King  of  As- 
syria, defeated  Shamashmudammiq,  King  of  Karduniash, 
overthrew  him  and  [carried  away]  chariots  and  his  [horses 
trained]  to  the  yoke. 

Shamashmudammiq,  King  [of  Karduniash],  was  killed 
by  Nabushumishkun.  Rammannirari,  King  [of  Assyria], 
fought  with  Nabushumishkun,  King  of  [Karduniash], 
(and)  defeated  him  *  *  *  {he  captured]  *  *  *  banbala, 
Huda[du(?)],  many  cities  and  brought  their  rich  spoil  [to 
Assyria].  He  shut  up  [Nabushumishkun  in]  a  fortress  (?) 
of  his  country.     Because  their  daughter  to  one  another 

*  *  *  they  made  [friendship]  (and)  a  perfect  alliance  with 
one  another.     [The  people  of]  Assyria  (and)  of  Akkad 

*  *  *  with  one  another.  From  Tel-Bari,  which  is  above 
the  Zab  to  Tel-Batani  and  Tel-Zabdani  they  fixed  the 
boundary. 

[In  the  ti]me  of  Shalmaneser,  King  of  [Assyria] 
[Nab]ubaliddin  (was)  King  of  Karduniash.  They  made 
[friend]  ship  and  a  perfect  alliance  with  one  another.  In 
the  time  of  Shalmaneser,  King  of  [Assyria],  [Nabu]balid- 
din.  King  of  Karduniash,  was  [driven  out]  by  his  country. 
[Mar]duknadinshum  took  his  seat  on  his  father's  throne. 
Mardukbelusati,  his  brother,  rebelled  against  him,  seized 

*  *  *  They  divided  Akkad  equally.  Shalmaneser  marched 
to  the  help  of  Marduknadinshum,  King  of  Karduniash. 
He  killed  Mardukbelusati,  the  usurper  (?),  with  his 
fellow-rebels.  [He  went  up]  to  Kutha,  Babylon  [and 
Borsippa,  and  offered  pure  sacrifices]  *  *  *  [A  break 
follows.] 


THE  HISTORY  OF  ASSYRIA   AND  BABYLONIA      199 

*  *  *  *   [the  boundary]  they  fixed. 
[Mardukbalatsuiq]bi,    King    of    Karduniash    *    *    * 

[Shamshi-]ramman,  King  of  Assyria  *  *  *  defeated  Mar- 
dukbalatsuiqbi  and  covered  the  plain  [with  the  corpses  of 
his  sol]  diets  *  *  * 

*  *  *  he  shut  him  up.  He  captured  that  city  (and) 
brought  Bauhiddin  with  his  property  and  the  treasure  of  his 
palace  to  Assyria.  He  captured  Durilu,  Lahiru,  Ganna- 
nati,  Durpapsukal,  Bitriduti,  Me-turn[at],  numerous  cities 
of  Karduniash  and  their  citadels.  He  carried  away — (as) 
rich  spoil — their  gods,  (namely):  Humhummu,  Belit  of 
Babylon,  Belit  of  Akkad,  Shimalia,  Nergal,  Anunit  (?) 
*  *  *  of  Malik.  He  went  up  to  Kutha,  Babylon,  and 
Borsippa,  and  offered  pure  sacrifices.  He  went  down 
to  Kaldu  (and)  received  the  tribute  of  the  King  of 
Kaldu,  his  officers  (?)***  on  the  side  of  Karduni- 
ash *  *  *  he  re-established  the  boundary,  [fixed]  the 
territory. 

Rammannirari,  King  of  Assyria,  and  *  *  *  (Lines  are 
badly  broken). 

He  brought  back  the  captives;  stated  temple-tribute  (?) 
of  grain  (?)  he  imposed  upon  them.  The  people  of  As- 
syria (and)  of  Karduniash  *  *  *  with  one  another  *  *  * 
the  territory  and  fi[xed]  the  boundary  fairly. 

May  the  later  prince,  whomsoever  they  may  establish  in 
Akkad,  write  on  power  and  conquest  (and)  add  it  to  this 
tablet,  which  is  eternal  and  never  to  be  forgotten!  Who- 
soever receives  it,  may  he  listen  to  all  that  is  written  (there- 
on), glorify  the  majesty  of  Assyria  for  all  time,  (and)  drive 
out  the  wickedness  of  Akkad  to  all  the  quar[ters]  (of  the 
world). 

(Postscript.)  [Property  of  Ashurbanipal] ,  King  of  As- 
syria. 

'  From  a  broken  tablet. 


200       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


THE   BABYLONIAN    CHRONICLE 

[Ik  the  third  year  of  J^abonassar] ,  King  of  Babylon, 
[Tiglath-pileser]  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Assyria. 
In  the  same  year  he  marched  down  to  Akkad,  plundered 
the  cities  Rabbiku  and  Hamranu,  and  carried  away  the 
gods  of  the  city  Shapazza. 

In  the  time  of  Nabonassar,  Borsippa  separated  itself 
from  Babylon.  The  battle  of  Nabonassar  against  Borsippa 
is  not  recorded. 

In  the  fifth  year  of  Nabonassar,  Ummanigash  took  his 
seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam. 

In  the  fourteenth  year  Nabonassar  was  taken  ill  and  died 
in  his  palace.  Nabonassar  reigned  fourteen  years  over 
Babylon.  Nadin,  his  son,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in 
Babylon. 

In  the  second  year  Nadin  was  killed  in  a  revolt.  Nadin 
reigned  two  years  over  Babylon.  Shumukin,  a  governor, 
leader  of  the  revolt,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne.  Shumukin 
reigned  two  months,  [twelve]  days  over  Babylon.  Ukin- 
zer  *  *  *  on  the  throne  *  *  *  [killed  him  (?)]  and 
seized  the  throne. 

In  the  third  year  of  Ukinzer,  Tiglath-pileser,  on  his 
expedition  to  Akkad,  destroyed  Bit-Amukani  and  captured 
Ukinzer.  Ukinzer  reigned  three  years  over  Babylon. 
Tiglath-pileser  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Babylon. 

In  the  second  year,  in  the  month  Tebet,  Tiglath-pileser 
died.  Tiglath-pileser  reigned  *  *  *  years  over  Akkad  and 
Assyria;  two  years  he  reigned  in  Akkad.  On  the  twenty- 
fifth  day  of  the  month  Tebet,  Shalmaneser  took  his  seat  on 
the  throne  in  Ass)rria.  He  destroyed  the  city  Shabara'in 
(or  Shamara'in?). 

In  the  fifth  year,  in  the  month  Tebet,  Shalmaneser  died. 
Shalmaneser  reigned  five  years  over  Akkad  and  Ass)rria. 
On  the  twelfth  day  of  Tebet,  Sargon  took  his  seat  on  the 
throne  in  Assyria.  In  the  month  Nisan,  Merodachbaladan 
took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Babylon. 


THE   BABYLONIAN  CHRONICLE  20I 

In  the  second  year  of  Merodachbaladan,  Ummanigash, 
King  of  Elam,  fought  a  battle  against  Sargon,  King  of  As- 
syria, in  the  district  of  Durilu,  invaded  Assyria  and  routed 
them  completely.  Merodachbaladan,  with  his  army,  who 
had  come  to  the  help  of  the  King  of  Elam,  did  not  come  in 
time  for  the  battle,  but  joined  (?)  him  later. 

In  the  fifth  year  of  Merodachbaladan,  Ummanigash 
died.  Ummanigash  reigned  *  *  *  years  over  Elam  *  *  * 
Kudur,  son  of  his  sister,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam 

*  *  *  Merodach(?)baladan(?)  *  *  *  to    the    tenth    year 

*  *  * 

[Lines  badly  broken.] 

In  the  [twelfth],  year  [of  Merodachbaladan],  Sargon 
marched  down  to  Akkad  and  fought  [against  Merodach- 
baladan; and]  Merodach[baladan  at  the  head  of  his  nobles 
fled  to  Elam.  Merodachbaladan  reigned  over  Babylon] 
twelve  years.  Sargon  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in 
Babylon. 

In  the  thirteenth  year  Sargon  took  the  hand  of  Bel  (and) 
captured  Duriaku. 

In  the  fourteenth  year  the  king  (remained)  in  (his) 
country. 

In  the  fifteenth  year,  on  the  twenty-second  day  of  the 
month  Tishrit,  the  gods  of  the  Sea  Land  were  restored 

*  *  *  feasts  (?)  were  instituted. 

[In  the  sixteenth  year  Sar]gon  [marched]  to  the  land 
of  Tabalu. 

[Lines  badly  broken.] 

The   Babylonians  were  not  scattered.     The   territory 

*  *  *  he  enlarged.  Merodachbaladan  and  *  *  *  He 
plundered  his  country  *  *  *  Having  fortified  (?)  Larak 
and  Sharraba  *  *  *  he  set  Belibni  on  the  throne  in 
Babylon. 

In  the  first  year  of  Belibni,  Sennacherib  destroyed  the 
cities  Hirimma  and  Hararatum. 

In  the  third  year  of  Belibni,  Sennacherib  marched  down 
to  Akkad  and  plundered  Akkad.     Belibni  and  his  nobles 


202        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

were  led  away  to  Assyria.  Belibni  reigned  three  years 
over  Babylon.  Sennacherib  set  his  (own)  son  Ashur- 
nadinshum  on  the  throne  in  Babylon. 

In  the  first  year  of  Ashumadinshum,  Ishtarhundu, 
King  of  Elam,  seized  his  brother  Hallushu  and  imprisoned 
him.  Ishtarhundu  reigned  eighteen  years  over  Elam. 
Hallushu,  his  brother,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam. 

In  the  sixth  year  of  Ashumadinshum,  Sennacherib 
marched  down  to  Elam,  destroyed  the  cities  Nagitu,  Hilmu, 
Pillatu,  and  Hupapanu,  and  plundered  them.  Afterward 
Hallushu,  King  of  Elam,  marched  to  Akkad.  At  the  end 
(?)  of  the  month  Tishrit  (?)  he  entered  Sippar  (and)  killed 
people.  Shamash  did  not  leave  Ebabbara.  Ashumadinshum 
was  taken  captive  and  led  away  to  Elam.  Ashumadinshum 
reigned  six  years  over  Babylon.  The  King  of  Elam  set 
Nergalushezib  on  the  throne  in  Babylon  and  invaded 
Assyria. 

In  the  first  year  of  Nergalushezib,  on  the  sixteenth  day 
of  the  month  Tammuz,  Nergalushezib  took  Nippur  (?)*** 
On  the  first  day  of  the  month  Tishrit  the  Assyrian  army 
entered  Erech,  (and)  spoiled  the  gods  of  Erech  and  its 
people.  Nergalushezib  followed  the  Elamites.  The  gods 
of  Erech  and  its  people  were  carried  away.  On  the  eighth 
day  of  the  month  Tishrit  he  fought  against  the  Assyrians 
in  the  district  of  Nippur,  was  captured  in  open  battle,  and 
led  to  Assyria.  Nergalushezib  reigned  one  year  and  six 
months  over  Babylon  *  *  *  On  the  twenty-sixth  day 
*  *  *  the  people  rebelled  against  Hallushu,  King  of  Elam, 
imprisoned  and  killed  him.  Hallushu  reigned  six  years 
over  Elam.  Kudur  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam. 
After  that  Sennacherib  marched  down  to  Elam,  devastated 
and  plundered  it  from  the  land  of  Rashi  to  Bit-Bumaki. 
Mushezib-Marduk  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Babylon. 

In  the  first  year  of  Mushezib-Marduk,  on  the  eighteenth 
(or  twenty-eighth?)  day  of  the  month  Ab,  Kudur,  King  of 
Elam,  was  taken  captive  in  a  revolt  and  killed.  Kudur 
reigned  ten  months  over  Elam.  Menanu  took  his  seat  on 
the  throne  in  Elam.     In  an  unknown  year  Menanu  col- 


THE   BABYLONIAN   CHRONICLE 


203 


lected  the  forces  of  Elam  and  Akkad,  and  in  Halule  at- 
tacked and  invaded  Assyria. 

In  the  fourth  year  of  Mushezib-Marduk,  on  the  fifteenth 
day  of  the  month  Nisan,  Menanu,  King  of  Elam,  was  over- 
powered, his  mouth  was  stopped  and  he  could  not  speak. 
On  the  first  day  of  the  month  Kislev  the  city  was  captured. 
Mushezib-Marduk  was  taken  captive  and  led  away  to  As- 
syria. Mushezib-Marduk  reigned  four  years  over  Babylon. 
On  the  seventeenth  day  of  the  month  Adar,  Menanu,  King 
of  Elam,  died.  Menanu  reigned  four  years  over  Elam. 
Hummahaldash  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam. 

In  the  eighth  year  there  was  no  king  in  Babylon.  On 
the  third  day  of  the  month  Tammuz  the  gods  of  Erech  re- 
turned to  Erech  from  Eridu.  On  the  twenty-third  day  of 
the  month  Tishrit,  Hummahaldash,  King  of  Elam,  was 
overpowered  with  fire  and,  died  jn  *  *  *  Hummahaldash 
reigned  eight  years  over  Elam.  Hummahaldash  II  took 
his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam.  On  the  twentieth  day  of 
the  month  Tebet,  Sennacherib,  King  of  Assyria,  was  killed 
by  his  son  in  a  revolt.  Sennacherib  reigned  [twenty- 
three]  years  over  Assyria.  From  the  twentieth  day  of 
Tebet  to  the  second  day  of  Adar  the  revolt  continued 
in  Assyria.  On  the  eighteenth  day  of  the  month  Sivan, 
Esarhaddon,  his  son,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in 
Assyria. 

In  the  first  year  of  Esarhaddon,  Zerkenishlishir,  of  the 
Sea  Land,  having  arisen  (?),  encamped  (?)  against  Ur 
*  *  *  Before  the  Assyrian  officers  he  fled,  and  [went  ?]  to 
Elam  *  *  *  In  Elam  the  King  of  Elam  seized  him  and 
[killed  him]  with  the  sword.  In  an  unknown  month  in 
Nippur,  the  Tig-En-Na  *  *  * 

In  the  month  Elul  the  god  Kadi  and  the  gods  [of 
Durilu]  came  to  Durilu  [*  *  *  and  the  gods  of  Durshar- 
rukin]  came  to  Dursharrukin  *  *  *  In  the  month  Adar 


*  *  * 


In  the  second  year  the  major-domo  *  *  *  -aheshuUim 
*  *  *  the  Tig-En-Na  *  *  *  were  brought  to  Assyria  and 
killed  in  Assyria.  *  *  *  Sidon  was  captured,  and  its  spoil 


204       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

carried  away  *  *  *  The  major-domo  called  an  assembly 
in  Akkad. 

In  the  fifth  year,  on  the  second  day  of  the  month  Tishrit, 
the  Assyrian  army  conquered  Bazza  (Swamp-land?).  In 
the  month  Tishrit  the  head  of  the  Sidonian  king  was  cut 
off  and  brought  to  Assyria.  In  the  month  Adar  the  head 
of  the  king  of  the  lands  Kundu  and  Sisu  was  cut  off  and 
brought  to  Assyria. 

In  the  sixth  year  the  King  of  Elam  entered  Sippar  and 
made  a  massacre.  Shamash  did  not  leave  Ebabbara.  The 
Assyrian  army  marched  to  Meluhha.  Hummahaldash, 
King  of  Elam,  died  in  his  palace  without  being  sick.  Hum- 
mahaldash reigned  five  years  over  Elam.  Urtag^,  his 
brother,  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  in  Elam.  In  an  un- 
known month  Shumiddin,  the  Tig-En-Na,  and  Kudur,  son 
of  Dakuri,  were  brought  to  Assyria. 

In  the  seventh  year,  on  the  fifth  day  of  the  month  Adar, 
the  Assyrian  army  marched  to  Egypt.  In  Adar,  Ishtar  of 
Agade  and  the  gods  of  Agade  came  from  Elam  and  en- 
tered Agade  on  the  tenth  day  of  Adar. 

In  the  eighth  year  of  Esarhaddon,  in  the  month  Tebet — 
the  day  obliterated — the  land  of  Rurisa  was  conquered,  and 
its  spoil  carried  away.  In  the  month  Kislev  its  spoil 
reached  Erech.  On  the  eighth  day  of  the  month  Adar  the 
wife  of  the  king  died. 

In  the  tenth  year,  in  the  month  Nisan.the  Assyrian  army 
marched  to  Egypt.  On  the  third,  sixteenth,  and  eight- 
eenth days  of  the  month  Tammuz — ^three  times — ^a  battle 
was  fought  in  Egypt.  On  the  twelfth  day  Memphis,  its 
(i.  e.,  Egypt's)  royal  city,  was  captured,  its  king  escaped, 
his  son  *  *  *  its  spoil  was  carried  away,  the  people  *  *  * 
its  property  *  *  * 

[In  the  eleventh  year  the  king  remained]  in  Assyria. 
He  killed  [many  of]  the  nobles  with  the  sword. 

In  the  twelfth  year  the  Assyrian  king  marched  to 
Eygpt,  became  sick  on  the  way,  and  died  on  the  tenth 
day  of  the  month  Marcheshvan.  Esarhaddon  reigned 
twelve  years  over  Assyria.    His  two  sons  took  their  seat 


THE   BABYLONIAN  CHRONICLE  205 

on  the  throne:  in  Babylon,  Shamashshumukin;  in  Assyria, 
Ashurbanipal. 

In  the  first  year  of  Shamashshumukin,  in  the  month 
lyyar,  Bel  and  the  gods  of  Akkad  left  the  city  Asshur  and 
reached  Babylon  in  lyyar.  In  the  same  year  the  King  of 
Kirbitu  was  captured.  On  the  twentieth  day  of  the  month 
Tebet,  Beleter  *  *  *  was  captured  and  killed  in  Babylon. 

Part  first — revised  and  prepared  after  its  original. 
Table  of  Anabeleresh,  son  of  Liblutu,  son  of  Kalab-Nan- 
nar  for  Yaddin,  son  of  Anabeleresh,  son  of  Kalab-Nannar. 
Babylon,  on  the  fifth  day  of  the  month  *  *  *  in  the  twen- 
ty-second year  of  Darius,  King  of  Babylon  and  countries. 


THE  ASSYRIAN    EPONYM-LIST 


*  *  *  shar  *  *  * 
Ninib-zar  *  *  * 
Tab-etir-[Ashur]. 
[As]hur-ladu  (?). 
Tukulti     Ninib,      the 

king. 

888.  Takkil-ana-beli[a]. 
Abu-Malik. 
Ilu-milki. 
Yari. 

Ashur-shezibani. 
Ashur  -  naqir  -  pal,  the 
king. 
882.  Ashur-iddin. 

*  *  *  uttiaku.^ 
Sha-(ilu)MA-daniqa. 
Dakan-bel-na9ir. 
Ninib-pia-U9ur. 
Ninib-bel-uqur. 
Shangu-Ashur-lilbur. 

875.  Shamash-upahir. 
874.  Nergal-bel-kumua. 
873.  Qurdi-Ashur. 
872.  Ashur-li'u. 
871.  Ashur-natkil. 
870.  Bel-mudammiq. 
869.  Dain-Ninib. 
868.  Ishtar  *  *  * 
867.  Shamash-niiri. 

'  Var.  Imut  (?or  Mit?)  aku. 


893- 
892. 

891. 

890. 

889. 


887. 

886. 
885. 
884. 
883. 


881. 
880. 
879. 
878. 
877. 
876. 


866.  Mannu-dan-ana-ili. 
865.  Shaniash-bel-U9ur. 
864.  Ninib-malik. 
863.  Ninib-etiranni. 
862.  Ashur-malik. 
861.  Nergal-ig-KA-danin. 
860.  Tab-Bel. 
859.  Shar-kalab-nishe.'' 
858.  Shulmanu   -    asharidu 
(=Shalmaneser),  the  king. 
857.  Ashur-bel-ukinni. 
856.  Ashur-bania-u^ur. 
855.  Abu-ina-ekal-lilbur. 
854.  Dain-Ashur. 
853.  Shamash-abua. 
852.  Shamash-bel-uqur. 
851.  Bel-bania. 
850,  Hadil-epushu. 
849.  Nergal-alik-pani. 
848.  Bur-(ilu)-Ramana.' 
847.  Ninib-mukin-nishe. 
846.  Ninib-nadin-shum. 
845.  Ashur-bania. 
844.  Tab-Ninib. 
843.  Takkil-ana-sharri. 
842.  Ramman-rimani. 
841.  Bel-abua. 
840.  Shulmu-bel-lamur. 
839.  Ninib-kibsi-u^ur. 

'  Schrader:  Shar-UR-nishe. 


'  Var.  Bur-Raman  and  Bir-Raman. 
206 


THE   ASSYRIAN  EPONYM-LIST 


207 


838.  Ninib-malik. 

837.  Qurdi-Ashur. 

836.  Ner-shar. 

835.  Nergal-mudamiq. 

834.  Yahalu. 

833.  Ululai. 

832.  Sharpati-Bel. 

831.  Nergal-malik. 

830.  Hu-(Bak?)-ba-a. 

829.  Ilu-mukin-ahi. 

828.  Shulmanu    -    asharidu 

(Shalmaneser),  the  king. 
827.  Dain-Ashur. 
826.  Ashur-bania-uqur. 
825.  Yahalu. 
824.  Bel-bania. 
823.  Shamshi-Ramman,  the 

king. 
822,  Yahalu. 
821.  Bel-dan. 
820.  Ninib-upahhir. 
819.  Shamash-malik. 
818.  Nergal-malik. 
817.  Ashur-bania-u^ur. 
816.  Sharpati-Bel. 
815.  Bel-balat. 
814.  Mushiknish. 
813.  Ninib-asharidu. 
812.  Shamash-kumua. 
811.  Bel-qat-^abat. 
810.  Ramman  -  nirari,     the 

king. 
809.  Nergal-malik. 
808.  Bel-dan. 
807.  C^il-Bel. 
806.  Ashur-takkil. 
805.  Ilu-ittia. 


804.  Nergal-eresh. 

803.  Ashur-kalab-nishe. 

802.  Ninib-malik. 

801.  Ner-shar. 

800.  AN-  *  *  * 

799.  Mutakkil-  *  *  * 

798.  Bel-tar9i(ilu)MA. 

797.  Ashur-bel-U9ur. 

796.  Marduk-shadua. 

795,  Ukin-abua. 

794.  Mannuki     (mat)     As- 

shur. 
793.  Mushallim-Ninib. 
792.  Bel-iqishani. 
791.  Ner-Shamash. 
790.  Ninib-ukin-ahi. 
789.  Ramman-mushammir, 
788.  Qil-Ishtar. 
787.  Balatu. 
786.  Ramman-uballit. 
785.  Marduk-shar-ugur.  ' 
784.  Nabu-shar-ugur. 
783.  Ninib-na9ir. 
782.  .(ilu)MA-li'u. 
781.  Shulmanu    -   asharidu 

(Shalmaneser),  the  king. 
780.  Shamshi-ilu. 
779.  Marduk-rimani. 
778.  Bel-lishir. 
"jyj.  Nabu-ishid-ukin. 
'jyd.  Pan-Ashur-lamur.^ 
775.  Nergal-eresh. 
774.  Ishtar-duri. 
773.  Mannuki-Ramman. 
772.  Ashur-bel-ugur. 
771.  Ashur-dan,  the  king. 
770.  Shamshi-ilu. 


*  Var.  Pan-Ashur-amaru. 


2o8        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


769.  Bel-malik. 
768.  Apliya. 
767.  Qurdi-Ashur. 
766.  Mushallim-Ninib. 

Ninib-ukin-nishe. 

^idqi-ilu. 

Pur-AN-sagale. 

Tab-Bel. 

Nabu-ukin-ahi. 

Laqibu. 

Pan-Ashur-lamur. 

Bel-takkil. 

Ninib-iddin. 

Bel-shadua. 

Qisu. 

Ninib-shezibani. 

Ashur-nirari,  the  king. 

Shamshi-ilu. 

Marduk-shallima(n)ni. 

Bel-dan. 

Shamash-  ittalak  -  SUN 

(?). 

748.  Ramman-bel-ukin. 
Sin-shallima(n)ni. 
Nergal-naqir. 
Nabu-bel-u^ur. 
Bel-dan. 

Tukulti  -  apal  -  Esharra 
(Tiglath  -  pileser)       [the 
king]. 
742.  Nabu-danina(n)ni. 
741.  Bel-Harran-bel-U9ur. 
740.  Nabu-etiranni. 
739.  Sin-takkil. 
738.  Ramman-bel-ukin. 


765- 
764. 

763- 
762. 
761. 
760. 

759- 
758. 
757- 
756. 
755- 
754- 
753- 
752- 
751- 
750. 
749- 


747- 
746. 

745- 
744- 
743- 


737.  Bel-limura(n)ni, 

736.  Ninib-malik. 

735.  Ashur-shallima(n)ni. 

734.  Bel-dan. 

733.  Ashur-danina(n)ni. 

732.  Nabu-bel-uqur. 

731.  Nergal-uballit. 

730.  Bel-ludari. 

729.  Naphar-ilu. 

728.  Dur-Ashur. 

727.  Bel-Harran-bel-u^ur. 

726.  Marduk-bel-ugur. 

725.  Mahde. 

724.  Ashur-hal-  *  *  * 

723.  Shulmanu-asharidu. 

722.  Ninib-malik. 

721.  Nabu-tarig. 

720.  Ashur-I^-KA-danin. 

719.  Sharru-ukin  (Sargon). 

718.  Zer-bani. 

717.  Tab-shar(?)-Ashur. 

716.  Tab-gil-Esharra. 

715.  Takkil-ana-Bel. 

714.  Ishtar-duri. 

713.  Ashur-bani. 

712.  Sharru-limura(n)ni. 

711.  Ninib-alik-pani. 

710.  Shamash-bel-ugur. 

709.  Mannuki-Ashur-li'u. 

708.  Shamash-upahhir. 

707.  Sha-Ashur-du(ub)bu. 

706.  Mutakkil-Ashur. 

705.  Upahhir(ra)-Bel.i 

704.  Nabu-dini-epush.* 

703.  Kan<;il(?)ar. 


•  Canon  II,  (a)  [Sin-]ahe-erba,  the  king ;  (i)  Upahhirra-Bel.  Canon  V 
10,  An  assassin  murdered  the  King  of  Assyria.  Canon  V  11,  On  the  twelfth 
day  of  the  month  Ab,  Sin-ahe-erba  [?  took  his  seat  on  the  throne  ?]. 

»  Canon  IV,  (a)  Sin-ahe-erba,  King  of  Assyria ;  (*)  Nabu-dini-epush. 


ASSYRIAN   EPONYM-LIST,  WITH   NOTES 


209 


702.  Nabu-li'u. 

680.  Dana(a)nu. 

701.  Hananu. 

679.  Ishtu-Ramman-aninu. 

700.  Metunu. 

678.  Nergal-shar-uqur. 

699.  Bel-shara(n)ni. 

677.  Abu-rama  (or  ramu). 

698.  Shulmu   -   (Shulum-)- 

676.  Bam(or  Ban-)ba. 

shar. 

675.  Nabu-ahe-iddin. 

697.  Nabu-dur-uqur. 

674.  Sharru-nuri. 

696.  (Tab?)-Bel. 

673.  Atar-ilu. 

695.  Ashur-bel-u^ur.* 

672.  Nabu-bel-u^ur. 

694.  Ilu-ittia. 

671.  Tebeta. 

693.  Nadin(i)-ah. 

670.  Shulmu-bel-lashme  (or 

692.  Za(ga)za(g;a)ai(aku?). 

-lashPshib?). 

691.  Bel-limura(n)ni. 

669.  Shamash-kashid-abi. 

690.  Nabu-mukin-ah. 

668.  Mar-larmi     (or     Mar- 

689.  Gihilu. 

larim). 

688.  Nadin-ahi. 

667.  Gabbaru. 

687.  Sin-ahe-erba.* 

666.  *  *  *  a. 

686.  Bel-limura(n)ni. 

685.  Ashur-danina(n)ni. 

[A  break  follows.] 

684.  Mannu-zir(or  zar)-ni. 

683.  Mannuki-Ramman. 

(?).  Belu-na'id. 

682.  Nabu-shar-ugur. 

(?).  Tabu  *  *  * 

681.  Nabu-ah-eresh. 

(?).  Arba-[ila]. 

[Esar]haddon    took    his 

(?).  Girza-[buna]. 

seat  on  the  throne. 

(?).  Silim-[Ashur?]. 

ASSYRIAN    EPONYM-LIST,  WITH  NOTES 


860.  *  *  *  when  Shul- 
manu-asharidu  (Shalman- 
eser),  son  of  Ashumaqir- 
pal,  [took  his  seat  on  the 
throne] . 

859.  In  the  eponym-year  of 


Sharru-kalab-nishe  *  *  * 

^r\     -l^      -r      'F 

858.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Shulmanu-asharidu,  King 
of  Assyria  *  *  * 

857.  In  the  eponym-year  of 


'  Smith  and  Delitzsch,  Nabu-. 
14 


'  Canon  III,  Ashur-ahe-[erba]. 


210       ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


Ashur-bel-ukin,  the  com- 
mander-in-chief *  *  * 

856.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Ashur  -  bana  -  ugur,  the 
rab-BI-LUB  *  *  * 

855.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Ashur  -  ina  -  ekalli  -  lilbur, 
the  major-domo,  (?)*** 

854.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Dain-Ashur,  the  com- 
mander-in-chief *  *  * 

853.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Shamash-abua,  the  gov- 
ernor of  the  city  Nagibna 
(Nisibis),  *  *  * 

852.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Shamash-bel-ugur,  of  the 
city  Kalah  *  *  * 

851.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Bel-bana(?),  the  major- 
domo  *  *  * 

850.  In  the  eponym-year  of 

Hadil-ebushu,  of  the  city 
*  *  * 

849.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Nergal-ahk-mahri  *  *  * 

848.  In  the  eponym-year  of 
Bir(ilu)Ramana  *  *  * 

[A  break  after  848.] 

842.  *  *  * 

841.  *  *  *  of   the   city   of 

Ahi-Zuhina.  To  [the  land 

of  Tilli(?)]e.^ 
840.  *  *  *  of  the  land  Ra- 

<;appa  (Razeph).     To  the 

land  (?)  of  *  *  *  hi. 


839.  *  *  *  of  the  city  Ahi]- 
Zuhina.  To  the  land  of 
Danabi. 

838.  *  *  *  of  the  land  of] 
Shallat  (?).  To  the  land 
of  Tabala. 

837.  *  *  *  of  the  land  of 
Kir]ruri.  To  the  land  of 
Melidi  (Melitene). 

836.  *  *  *  of  the  city  Nine- 
veh. To  the  land  of 
Namri  (Namar). 

835.  *  *  *  (amelu)]  itu. 
To  the  land  of  Que. 

834.  *  *  *  of  the  city  Kakzi 
(?  or  Kalzi  ?).  To  the 
land  of  Que  *  *  *  to  the 
land  of  Que.  The  great 
god  went  out  from  Der. 

833.  *  *  *  To  the  land  of 
Urartu  (Armenia). 

832.  *  *  *  To  the  land  of 
Unqi. 

831.  *  *  *  To  the  land  of 
Ulluba. 

830.  *  *  *  To  the  land  of 
Manna. 

829.  *  *  *  A  revolt. 

828.  *  *  *  A  revolt. 

827.  *  *  *  A  revolt. 

826.  *  *  *  A  revolt. 

825.  *  *  *  A  revolt. 

824.  *  *  *  A  revolt. 


8 1 7.   [Ashur  -  bania  -  uqur] . 

To  the  land  of  Tillie  (?). 

816.   [Sharpati-Bel,    of   the 

'  That  is,  an  expedition  to  N.  N. 


ASSYRIAN  EPONYM-LIST,  WITH  NOTES 


211 


city  Na]9ibina.     To  the 

land  of  Zarati. 
815.   [Bel-balat,  of  *  *  *]. 

To  Der.     The  great  god 

went  to  Der. 
814.   [Mushiknish,    of    the 

land  of]  Kirruri.    To  the 

land  of  Ihsana. 
813.   [Nergal  -  malik,      the 

commander  -  in]  -  chief. 

To  the  land  of  Kaldu. 
812.   [Shamash  -  kumua,   of 

the  land  of]  Arbaha.    To 

Babylon. 
811.  [Bel-kata-gabit,   of] 

Mazamua.     In  the  land.^ 
810.   [Ramman-nirari,  King 

of]  Assyria.    To  Media. 
809.   [Nergal  -  malik,      the 

commander      in]  -  chief. 

To  the  city  Guzana. 
808.   [Bel -dan]  *  *  *  the 

major  -  domo.       To     the 

land  of  Manna. 
807.  gil-Bel,     the     rab-Bi- 

Lub.      To    the    land    of 

Manna. 
806.   [Ashur  -  takkil]      the 

minister  (?).    To  the  land 

of  Arpadda. 
805.   [Ilu-ittia,  an  officer  of] 

the   land.      To    the    city 

Hazazu. 
804.   [Nergal-eresh,   of  the 

land    of    Ra]qappa.      To 

the  city  of  Balu. 


803.   [Ashur-kalab-nishe,  of 

the  land  of  Ar]baha.    To 

the  sea-coast.    A  plague. 
802.   [Ninib-malik,    of    the 

city     A]  hi-Zuhina.       To 

the  city  Hubushkia. 
801.   [Ner-shar,    of    Na]9i- 

bina.    To  Media. 
800.   [AN  *  *  *  of  the  city 

Amedi.    To  Media. 
799.   [Mutakkil  *  *  *]  the 

officer  *  *  *  of  (?)  the  rab- 

shaks.      To   the   land   of 

Lusia. 
798.   [Bel-tar9i-(ilu)MA,   of 

the  city]  Kalah.    To  the 

land  of  Namri. 
797.   [Ashur  -  bel  -  u^ur,   of 

the  land  of]  Kirruri.    To 

the  city  Manquate, 
796.   [Marduk  -  shadua,    of 

the  land  of]  Shallat.     To 

the  city  Der. 
795.   [Ukin  -  abua,    of    the 

land  of]  Tushhan.  To  the 

city  Der. 
794.   [Mannuki  -  Ashur,    of 

the    city]    Guzana.      To 

Media. 
793.   [Mushallim  -  Ninib,  of 

the  land  of  Tillie].     To 

Media. 
792.   [Bel  -  ikishani,   of  the 

city]   Mehinish.     To  the 

city  Hubushkia. 
791.   [Ner-Shamash,  of  the 


•  That  is,  the  king  remained  in  the  land, 
taken. 


No  expedition  was  under- 


212        ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


land  of]   Isana.     To  the 

land  of  Itua. 
790.   [Ninib  -  ukin  -  ahi,    of 

the   city]    Nineveh.     To 

Media. 
789.   [Ramman  -  musham- 

mir,  of  the  city]    Kakzi 

(?).    To  Media. 
788.   [gil-Ishtar,  of  *  *  * 

KI]  kar-ru  (?). 
787.  [Balatu,    of    *    *    *]. 

To  Media.    Nabii  entered 

the  new  temple. 
786.   [Ramman  -  uballit,    of 

the  city  Ri]musi.    To  the 

land  of  Ki-is(?)ki. 
785.   [Marduk  -  shar  -  ugur. 

To  the  land  of]  Hubush- 

kia.    The  great  god  went 

to  the  city  Der. 
784.   [Nabu  -  shar  -  uqur,  of 

the  city  Kur(?)ba-an.    To 

the  land  of  Hubushkia. 
783.   [Ninib-na^ir,    of    the 

city]   Mazamua.     To  the 

land  of  Itu. 
782.   [(ilu)  MA-li'u,  of  the 

city  Naqib]ina.     To  the 

land  of  Itu. 
781.   [Shulmanu  -  asharidu, 

King  of  Assyria.    To  the 

land  of  Urartu  (Armenia). 
780.   [Shamshi-ilu.  the  com- 
mander]-in-chief.    To  the 

land  of  Urartu. 
779.   [Marduk  -  rimani    the 

rab]-BI-LUB.      To    the 

land  of  Urartu. 


778.  [Bel-Iishir,  the  ma- 
jor-] domo.  To  the  land 
of  Urartu. 

777-  [Nabu-ishid-ukin]  the 
minister  (?).  To  the  land 
of  Itu. 

776.  [Pan  -  Ashur  -  lamur] , 
the  governor  of  the  land. 
To  the  land  of  Urartu. 

775.  [Nergal-eresh,  of  the 
land  of  Ra]9appa.  To 
the  land  of  cedars  (Ama- 
nus). 

774.  [Ishtar-duri,  of  the  city 
Naqi]bina.  To  the  lands 
of  Urartu  (and)  Namri. 

773.  [Mannuki  -  Ramman, 
of  the  land  (?)  of]  Shal- 
lat  (?).  To  the  city  Da- 
mascus. 

772.  [Ashur  -  bel  -  uqur,  of 
the  city  Kalah.  To  the 
land  of  Hatarika  (Ha- 
drach). 

771.  [Ashur-dan,  King  of 
As]  Syria.  To  the  city 
Gananati. 

770.  [Shamshi-ilu,  the  com- 
mander] -  in  -  chief.  To 
the  city  Marad. 

769.  [Bel-Malik,  of  the  land 
of]  Arbaha.  To  the  land 
of  Itu. 

768.  [Apliya,  of  the  city 
Ma]zamua.     In  the  land. 

767.  [Qurdi-Ashur,  of  the 
city  Ah]i-Zuhina.  To  the 
land  of  Gananati. 


ASSYRIAN   EPONYM-LIST,  WITH   NOTES 


213 


766.  [Mushallim-Ninib,  of 
the  city]  Tile  (?).  To 
Media. 

765.  [Ninib  -  mukin  -  nishe, 
*  of]  the  land  of  Kirruri. 
To  the  land  of  Hatarika. 
A  plague. 

764.  [Qidki-ilu,  of]  the  land 
of  Tushhan.  In  the 
land. 

763.  [Pur-(ilu)-Sagale  (?) 
o]f  the  city  Guzana. 
A  revolt  in  the  city  As- 
shur.  In  the  month  Sivan 
an  eclipse  of  the  sun  took 
place. 

762.  [Tab-Bel,  o]f  the  city 
Amedi.  A  revolt  in  the 
city  Asshur. 

761.  [Ninib-mukin-ahi,  o]f 
the  city  Nineveh.  A  re- 
volt in  the  city  Arbaha. 

760.  [Laqibu,  o]f  the  city 
Kakzi  (?).  A  revolt  in 
the  city  Arbaha. 

759.  [Pan-Ashur-lamur,  of] 
the  city  Arba-ilu  (Arbela). 
A  revolt  in  the  city  Gu- 
zana.   A  plague. 

758.  [Bel-takkil,  of]  the 
city  Isana.  To  the  city 
Guzana.  Peace  in  the 
land. 

757.  [Ninib-iddin,  of  the 
ci]ty  Kur(?)ban.  In  the 
land. 

756.   [Bel  -  shadua,    of    the 

'  Variation ;  To 


city]    Pamunna  (?).     In 

the  land. 
755-   [Qisu,  of  the  city]  Me- 

hinish.     To   the  land  of 

Hatarika. 
754.   [Ninib  -  shezibani,    of 

the    city]     Rimusi.      To 

the    land*    of    Arpadda. 

Return  from  the  city  As- 
shur. 
753.   [Ashur  -  nirari,      the 

King    of]    Assyria.      In 

the  land. 
752.   [Shamshi-ilu,  the  com- 
mander]-in-chief.    In  the 

land. 
751.  [Marduk-shallima(n)- 

ni,  the  major-]  domo.    In 

the  land. 
750.   [Bel-dan  the  rab-BI]- 

LUB  (?).     In  the  land. 
749.   [  Shamash       ittalak  - 

SUN(?)]theminister(?). 

To  the  land  of  Namri. 
748.    [Ramman -bel-ukin], 

officer   (?)    of   the    land. 

To  the  land  of  Namri. 
747.   [Sin-shallima(n)ni,    of 

the    land    of]     Ragappa. 

In  the  land. 
746.   [Nergal-nagir,  of]  the 

city  Naqibina.     A  revolt 

in  the  city  Kalah. 
745.   [Nabii  -  bel  -  ugur,  of] 

the    city    Arbaha.       On 

the  thirteenth  day  of  the 

month     lyyar     Tukulti- 

the  city  Arpadda, 


214       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


apal-Esharra  (Tiglath-pi- 
leser)  took  his  seat  on  the 
throne.  In  the  month 
Tishrit  he  marched  to  the 
territory  between  the 
rivers. 

744.  [Bel-dan,  of  the  city] 
Kalah.  To  the  land  of 
Namri. 

743.  [TukuIti-apal-Esharra, 
K]ing  of  Assyria,  ^n  the 
city  Arpadda.  A  mas- 
sacre took  place  in  the 
land  of  Urartu  (Armenia). 

742.  [Nabu  -  danina(n)ni] , 
the  commander-in-chief. 
To  the  city  Arpadda. 

741.  [Bel  -  Harran  -  bel  - 
uqur] ,  the  major-domo. 
To  the  same  city.  Con- 
quered in  three  years. 

740.  [Nabu-etira(n)ni],  the 
rab-BI-LUB.  To  the 
city  Arpadda. 

739.  [Sin-takkil] ,  the  min- 
ister (?).  To  the  land  of 
Ulluba.*  A  fortress  oc- 
cupied. 

738.  [Ramman  -  bel-ukin] , 
the  governor.  The  city 
Gullani  captured. 

737.  [Bel-limura(n)ni],  of 
the  land  Raqappa.  To 
Media. 

736.  [Ninib-malik],  of  Na- 
9ibina.  To  the  foot  of  Nal 
Mountains. 

'  Schrader :  The  city 


735-   [Ashur-shallima(n)ni,J 

of  the  land  Arbaha.    To 

the  land  of  Urartu. 
734.   [Bel-dan],  of  the  city 

Kalah.     To  the  land   of 

Pilishta. 
733.    [ Ashur  -  danina(n)ni] , 

of  the  city  Mazamua.    To 

the  land  of  Damascus. 
732.   [Nabu-bel-ugur],  of 

the  city   Sime.     To   the 

land  of  Damascus. 
731.   [Nergal  -  uballit],    of 

the  city  Ahi-Zuhina.    To 

the  city  Sapiya. 
730.   [Bel-ludari],    of    the 

city    Tile    (?).      In    the 

land. 
729.   [Naphar-ilu],    of    the 

land  Kirruri.     The  king 

seized  the  hands  of  Bel. 
728.   [Dur- Ashur],    of    the 

city  Tushhan.     The  king 

seized  the  hands  of  Bel. 

The  city  *  *  * 
727.   [Bel  -  Harran  -  bel  - 

uqur],  of  the  city  Guzana. 

To  the  city  *  *  *  [Shul- 

manu]-asharidu  [took  his 

seat]  on  the  throne. 
726.   [Marduk-bel-U9ur,    of 

the  city  Ame]di.     In  the 

land. 
725.   [Mahde,  of  the  city] 

Nineveh.    To  *  *  * 
724.   [Ashur-hal-  *  *  *  of 

cityKak]zi(?).    To*** 

Birtu  (blrtu  =  fortress). 


ASSYRIAN   EPONYM-LIST,  WITH   NOTES 


2IS 


723.   [Shulmanu  -  asharidu. 
King  of  Assyria].     T[o 


*  *  * 

*  *  * 

*  *  * 
720.  *  *  *  ru. 

719.  *  *  *  enjtered. 

718.  *  *  *  to  the  land  of 
Ta]bala. 

717.  *  *  *  du?karru?. 

716.  *  *  *  Iranz]u,  of  Man- 
na. 

715.  *  *  *  prefects  were 
appointed. 

714.  *  *  *  the  cities  Mu- 
qaqir  (and)  Haldia. 

713.  *  *  *  the  nobles  in 
the  land  of  Ellip. 

712.  *  *  *  Bel  (?)  en- 
tered. 

711.  *  *  *  the  city  Muqa- 
9ir. 

710.  *  *  *  In     the     land. 

Fragment  of 

708.  Eponym-year  of  Sha- 
mash-upahhir  *  *  *  The 
nobles  to  the  city  Ku- 
niuh(hi)  *  *  * 

707.  Eponjrm-year  of  Sha- 
Ashur  -  dubbu,  governor 
of  the  city  Tushhan. 
The  king  returned  from 
Babylon.  The  palaces 
and  *  *  *  On  the  twenty- 
second  day  of  the  month 
Tishrit  the  gods  of  Dur- 
sharru-ukin  *  *  * 


*  *  *  To  the  city  Marq- 
asa. 

709.  *  *  *  To  the  city  Bit- 
Zer-naid.  The  king  at 
KishPbiedi?  *  *  *  Sharru- 
ukin  (Sargon)  seized  the 
hands  of  Bel. 

708.  *  *  *  ri  (?).  The  city 
Kumuha  captured.  A 
prefect  appointed. 

707.  [*  *  *  eponym-year  of 
Sha-Ashur-dubbu,  gov- 
ernor of  the  city  Tush- 
ha]  n.  The  king  returned 
from  Babylon  *  *  * 
from  (?)  the  city  Dur- 
Yakin  went  forth. 

706.  *  *  *  The  city  Dur- 
Yakin  destroyed  *  *  * 
their  temples  they  en- 
tered. 

705.  *  *  *  In  the  land  of 
Karalla  *  *  *  ?  mahra?. 

a  Similar  List 

706.  Eponym-year  of  Mu- 
takkil  -  Ashur,  the  gov- 
ernor of  the  city  Guzana. 
The  king  *  *  *  On 
the  sixth  day  of  the 
month  lyyar  the  city 
Dur-sharru-ukin  *  *  * 

705.  Eponym-yearof  Upah- 
hir-Bel,  the  governor  of 
the  city  Amedi  *  *  *  Ac- 
cording to  the  oracle  (?) 
the  Kulummaites  *  *  * 
An  assassin  murdered  the 


2l6       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


King  of  Assyria  *  *  *  On 
the  twelfth  day  of  the 
month  Ab,  Sin-ahe-erba  * 
[took  his  seat  on  the 
throne] . 
704.  Eponym   -   year       of 


Nabu-dini-epush,the  gov- 
ernor of  the  city  Nineveh 
*  *  *  the  cities  Larak  (?) 
and  Sarabanu  *  *  *  the 
palace  of  the  city  Kakzu 
built  *  *  * 


'  Sennacherib. 


LETTERS 


THE   TEL-EL-AM ARN A    LETTERS 

I.    LETTER  FROM  AMENOPHIS  III,  KING  OF  EGYPT,  TO 
KADASHMAN-BEL,    KING  OF   KARDUNIASH 

(Northern  Babylonia  or  Assyria) 

This  is  the  only  known  letter  of  Amenophis  III.  It  is  written  in  the 
Babylonian  script,  and  is  addressed  to  a  king  unknown  before  the  discov- 
ery of  the  Tel-el-Amama  letters. 

TO  Kadashman-Bel,  King  of  Karduniash,  my  brother, 
thus  says  Nibmuaria  [Amenophis],  the  great  king, 
the  King  of  Egypt,  thy  brother:  I  am  well.  May 
it  be  well  with  thee,  with  thy  house,  with  thy  wives,  with 
thy  children,  with  thy  nobles,  thy  horses,  thy  chariots,  and 
in  thy  lands  may  there  be  an  abundance  of  peace!  I  am 
well;  with  my  house,  with  my  wives,  with  my  children, 
with  my  nobles,  my  horses,  my  chariots,  my  people  it  is 
very  well,  and  in  my  lands  there  is  an  abundance  of  peace. 
I  have  indeed  noted  the  word  that  thou  didst  write  me — 
namely,  "  Thou  verily  desirest  my  daughter  to  wife,  but 
from  the  time  my  father  gave  thee  my  sister  to  wife,  no 
one  has  seen  her  (and  no  one  knows)  whether  she  is  alive 
or  whether  she  is  dead."  These  are  thy  words  which  thou 
didst  write  me  in  thy  letter.  But  thou  hast  never  sent  a 
wise  man  who  was  acquainted  with  thy  sister,  who  could 
have  conversed  with  her,  or  who  could  have  recognised 
her,  and  could  have  conversed  with  her.  [Here  follow 
eight  lines  obscure  and  mutilated.] 

217 


2i8        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

And  when  thou  writest  thus:  "  When  thou  g^vest 
orders  to  my  messengers  and  to  thy  wives  to  assem- 
ble in  thy  presence,  and  when  thou  [Amenophis]  sayest 
to  the  messengers,  '  Behold  your  lady,  who  stands  be- 
fore you,'  my  messengers  do  not  recognise  her  as  my 
sister,  who  is  with  thee."  Anent  the  fact  that  thou 
writest  thus:  "  My  messengers  do  not  identify  her," 
[I  answer] ,  "  Who  then  can  identify  her?  "  pray  tell.  Why 
dost  thou  not  send  a  wise  man  who  could  bring  back  a 
genuine  greeting  from  thy  sister?  Command,  now,  that 
(some)  one  should  come  and  examine  her  household,  and 
her  relation  to  the  king.  And  when  thou  writest  thus: 
"  Who  knows  whether  she  is  the  daughter  of  a  beggar, 
or  of  a  Gagayan,  or  a  daughter  of  the  land  of  Hanigalbat, 
or  who  knows  whether  she  is  from  the  land  of  Ugarit,  she 
whom  my  messengers  see?  And  who  can  inform  them, 
that  she  who  is  with  thee  *  *  *  not  *  *  *  or  what  could 
he  not  tell  them?  "  Such  are  thy  words.  If  thy  sister 
were  dead,  why  should  it  be  concealed  *  *  *  [Seven  lines 
here  are  hopelessly  mutilated]  *  *  *  jn  Egypt,  and  when 
thou  writest  thus:  "  Daughters  *  *  *  to  wife  for  kings  of 
Kar[duniash],  and  whether  *  *  *  when  my  messengers 
go  there  and  converse  with  her  *  *  *  they  should  bring 
me  a  greeting  (from  her),  (as  evidence  that)  she  is  with 
thee."  Such  are  thy  words.  When  the  kings  of  thy  vicin- 
ity, great  kings,  take  thy  daughters  (to  wife),  do  they  send 
thee  everything  that  they  have,  or  that  she  has?  When 
thy  sister,  who  is  with  me,  receives  anything,  then  I  will 
send  it  to  you  as  a  token  of  esteem,  for  thou  mightest 
give  thy  daughters  to  the  ra-hul-ta,  of  thy  vicinity.  And 
when  thou  writest  that  I  have  disregarded  the  words  of 
my  father,  thou  dost  not  give  his  very  words — "  Establish 
genuine  brotherhood  between  us."  These  words  that  thou 
writest  are  thine  own  words.  Brothers,  indeed,  art  thou 
and  I,  we  two,  but  I  am  offended  at  thy  messengers  be- 
cause they  reported  to  thee  as  follows:  "  He  gave  us  noth- 
ing whatever."  Whoever  comes  to  Egypt,  (and)  they  come 
before  me,  or,  if  only  one  of  them  comes,  he  receives  silver. 


THE  TEL-EL-AMARNA   LETTERS 


219 


gold,  oil,  garments,  every  possible  favour  *  *  *  another 
land.  And  when  he  reports  *  *  *  the  first  time  mes- 
sengers came  to  thy  father,  they  became  offensive,  and 
carried  back  an  evil  report.  The  second  time  they  came 
they  (also)  returned  an  evil  report;  and  so  I  say,  whether 
I  had  given  them  anything,  or  whether  I  had  given  them 
nothing,  they  would  have  made  the  same  report.  And  I 
did  them  (only  good),  and  did  not  (withhold  anything)  from 
them. 

And  when  thou  writest  thus:  "Thou  spakest  to  my 
messengers  as  follows:  '  Has  not  (thy)  lord  soldiers?  and 
the  damsel  thou  gavest  me  is  not  beautiful.'  "  These 
are  thy  words.  Thy  messengers  have  not  reported  to 
thee  the  facts  in  the  case.  Whether  they  reported  that  thou 
hadst  or  hadst  not  soldiers,  why  should  I  have  asked  him 
(them)  whether  thou  hadst  people,  (or)  whether  thou 
hadst  horses?  But  do  not  listen  to  the  evil  reports  of  the 
messengers  whom  thou  sendest,  for  on  account  of  their 
fear  of  thee  they  report  falsely  to  escape  (punishment  at) 
thy  hand.  When  thou  sayest:  "  He  has  put  my  chariots 
among  the  chariots  of  his  officers,  so  that  the  foreigner 
who  should  bring  them  back  to  my  land  could  not  distin- 
guish them."  But  the  foreigner,  who  was  thine  own  (sub- 
ject), did  not  distinguish  them,  and  (still)  the  chariots  were 
thine.  (As  to)  the  horses  of  my  land,  the  chariots  require 
all  of  my  horses.  When  thou  writest,  by  the  hand  of  Rika, 
to  furnish  oil  for  *  *  *  to  the  damsel,  thou  writest  for 
a  gift  *  *  * 


II.  LETTER  FROM  KADASHMAN-BEL,  KING  OF  KARDUNIASH. 
TO  NIMMURIA  (AMENOPHIS  III),  KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  Nimmuria,  King  of  Egypt,  my  brother,  as  follows: 
Kadashman-Bel,  King  of  Karduniash,  thy  brother. 

May  it  be  well  with  thee,  with  thy  house,  with  thy 
wives,  with  thy  land,  with  thy  chariots,  with  thy  horses, 
with  thy  nobles,  may  it  be  very  well! 


220        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

As  for  the  damsel,  my  daughter,  for  the  marriage  of 
whom  thou  hast  written  me,  she  is  mature  and  marriage- 
able; send  (messengers)  and  let  her  be  taken.  In  former 
times,  when  my  father  sent  a  messenger  to  thee,  thou  didst 
not  detain  him  many  days,  but  promptly  sent  him  back,  and 
thou  didst  also  send  my  father  a  good  present. 

Now,  when  I  sent  my  messenger  to  thee,  six  years  long 
thou  didst  detain  him,  and  in  six  years  thou  hast  sent  me 
as  a  present  (only)  thirty  minas  of  gold,  which  is  like  silver. 
This  very  gold  was  tested  in  the  presence  of  thy  messenger, 
and  he  saw  (the  test).  When  thou  didst  plan  a  great  feast, 
thou  didst  not  send  thy  messenger  to  say,  "  Come,  now 
*  *  *  and  (bring)  a  present  appropriate  for  the  feast." 
These  thirty  minas  of  gold  which  thou  didst  send  are 
(merely)  a  present  for  *  *  *  [The  remaining  lines  are 
mutilated.] 


III.  LETTER  FROM  BURRABURIASH,  KING  OF  KARDUNIASH, 
TO  AMENOPHIS   IV,   KING  OF  EGYPT 

Shortly  after  the  latter's  accession  to  the  throne 

To  Niphuriria  [Amenophis],  King  of  Egjpt,  as  fol- 
lows: Burraburiash,  King  of  Karduniash,  thy  brother.  It 
is  well  with  me.  With  thee,  thy  house,  thy  wives,  thy  sons, 
thy  country,  thy  nobles,  thy  horses,  thy  chariots,  may  it 
be  very  well! 

(Ever)  since  my  father  and  thy  father  sustained  friendly 
relations  with  one  another,  they  exchanged  valuable  pres- 
ents, and  the  choicest  desire,  each  of  the  other,  they  did 
not  refuse.  Now,  my  brother  has  sent  me  as  a  present 
(only)  two  manehs  of  gold;  but  send  me  as  much  gold  as 
thy  father  [Amenophis  III]  (would  have  sent).  And  if 
it  be  less,  let  it  be  half  of  what  thy  father  would  send. 
Why  didst  thou  send  me  only  two  manehs  of  gold?  Now, 
the  work  of  (repairing)  the  temple  is  great;  and  vigorously 
have    I  undertaken  its  completion;  (therefore)  send  me 


THE  TEI^EL-AMARNA  LETTERS  221 

much  gold.  And  whatever  thou  mayest  desire  out  of  my 
country,  send,  that  it  may  be  dehvered  to  thee. 

In  the  time  of  Kurigalzu,  my  father,  the  Canaanites  as 
a  body  sent  to  him  as  follows:  "  Against  the  frontier  of  the 
land,  let  us  march,  and  invade  it.  Let  us  make  an  alliance 
with  thee."  Then  my  father  sent  them  this  (reply),  as  fol- 
lows: "  Cease  (trying)  to  form  an  alliance  with  me.  If  you 
cherish  hostility  against  the  King  of  Egypt,  my  brother, 
and  bind  yourselves  together  (with  an  oath),  as  for  me, 
shall  I  not  come  and  plunder  you? — for  he  is  in  alliance 
with  me."  My  father,  for  the  sake  of  thy  father,  did  not 
heed  them.  Now,  (as  to)  the  Assyrians,  my  own  subjects, 
did  I  not  send  thee  (word)  concerning  their  matters?  Why 
has  (an  embassy)  entered  thy  country?  If  thou  lovest  me, 
let  them  have  no  good  fortune.  Let  them  secure  no  (ad- 
vantage) whatever. 

As  a  present  I  send  thee  three  manehs  of  lapis  lazuli 
and  five  spans  of  horses  for  five  wooden  chariots. 


rv.    LETTER  FROM   TUSHRATTA,  KING  OF  MITANI,   TO 
AMENOPHIS  III,  KING  OF  EGYPT 

This  is  the  choicest  and  finest  of  the  British  Museum  collection,  and 
almost  perfectly  preserved 

To  Nimmuria  [Amenophis  III],  the  great  king.  King 
of  Egypt,  my  brother,  my  son-in-law,  who  loves  me,  and 
whom  I  love,  as  follows:  Tushratta,  the  great  king,  (thy) 
father-in-law,  who  loves  thee,  the  King  of  Mitani,  thy 
brother.  I  am  well.  May  it  be  well  with  thee;  with  thy 
house,  with  my  sister,  and  thy  other  wives,  with  thy  sons, 
with  thy  chariots,  vnth  thy  horses,  with  thy  great  men,  with 
thy  country  and  with  all  thy  possessions  may  it  be  exceed- 
ingly well ! 

In  early  times,  thy  fathers  maintained  friendly  relations 
with  my  fathers;  thou  hast,  however,  multiplied  them,  and 
with  my  father  thou  hast  been  on  exceedingly  friendly 
terms.     Now,  since  thou  and  I  are  on  terms  of  friendship, 


222        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

thou  hast  made  it  tenfold  stronger  than  (that  maintained 
between  thy  father  and)  my  father. 

May  the  gods  cause  this  our  friendship  to  prosper! 
May  Tishub-Bel  and  Amun  decree  that  (it)  perpetually 
endure  as  it  is  now! 

When  my  brother  sent  his  messenger,  Mani,  (with  a 
despatch  reading)  thus:  "  My  brother,  send  me  thy  daugh- 
ter to  be  my  wife,  to  be  mistress  of  Egypt,"  I  did  not 
make  my  brother  heart-sick,  but  continually  played  the 
part  of  a  friend.  And  as  my  brother  desired,  I  presented 
her  to  Mani.  And  he  looked  upon  her;  and  when  he  had 
seen  her  he  rejoiced  very  greatly.  When  he  brings  her  in 
safety  to  the  land  of  my  brother  may  Ishtar  and  Amun 
make  her  in  accord  with  my  brother's  desire! 

Gilia,  my  messenger,  has  brought  me  my  brother's 
message;  when  I  heard  it  it  was  exceedingly  good,  and  I 
rejoiced  greatly,  and  said,  "  For  my  part,  even  if  friendly 
relations  with  my  brother  had  ceased,  we  would,  on  the 
basis  of  this  message,  be  friends  forever." 

Now,  when  I  wrote  my  brother  and  said,  "  For  my  part, 
we  will  be  fast  friends,  and  mutually  helpful,"  I  said  to 
my  brother,  "  May  my  brother  increase  (our  friendship) 
tenfold  beyond  that  (maintained)  with  my  father! " 

And  I  made  a  request  of  my  brother  for  much  gold 
in  the  following  words:  "  Let  my  brother  assign  to  me 
more  than  (was  assigned)  to  my  father,  and  let  him  send 
it  to  me.  Thou  didst  send  my  father  much  gold;  a  nam- 
har  (vessel)  of  royal  gold,  a  kiru  (vessel)  of  royal  gold,  didst 
thou  send  him,  (but)  a  tablet  of  gold  that  is  as  if  it  were 
alloyed  with  copper  hast  thou  sent  me." 

When  I  sent  Gilia  to  my  brother,  and  requested  of  him 
gold  in  the  following  terms:  "As  for  me,  let  my  brother 
assign  me  more  than  (was  assigned)  to  my  father,  and  let 
him  send  me  much  gold,  even  without  measure.  May 
my  brother  send  me  more  than  (was  sent)  my  father! " 
And  I  also  spake  to  my  brother  as  follows:  "  Thy  munition 
which  my  grandfather  had  prepared  I  will  diligently  for- 
ward (!)  and  also  will  complete  the  order  (for  the  instru- 


THE   TEL-EL-AMARNA   LETTERS 


223 


ments)."  I  spoke  also  as  follows:  "The  gold  that  my 
brother  sends,  let  it  be  sent  as  the  dowry  for  a  wife."  When 
my  brother  sent  me  gold,  and  (when)  I  asked,  "  Is  it  too 
little  or  not?  "  it  was  not  too  little,  but  in  great  plenty, 
and  answered  the  required  specifications.  And  when  it 
answered  so  fully  the  requirements,  I  greatly  rejoiced  over 
it,  and  over  everything  that  my  brother  sent  I  was  very 
happy. 

Now,  then,  I  have  written  to  my  brother,  and  may  my 
brother,  beyond  (his  love)  to  my  father,  increase  his  love 
to  me!  I  have,  indeed,  asked  gold  of  my  brother,  and  the 
gold  that  I  ask  of  my  brother  I  desire  for  two  purposes:  in 
the  first  place  for  thy  munition,  and  secondly  for  a  wife. 
Let  my  brother  (then)  send  me  gold  in  great  abundance, 
even  without  measure,  and  let  him  send  more  gold  to  me 
than  (was  formerly  sent)  to  my  father.  For  in  the  land  of 
my  brother  gold  is  as  (plentiful  as)  dust.  May  the  gods  so 
order  that,  while  gold  is  now  abundant  in  the  land  of  my 
brother,  he  may  increase  its  abundance  tenfold!  But  let 
not  the  gold  that  I  request  distress  my  brother,  and  let 
not  my  brother  distress  me.  So  let  my  brother  send  me 
gold  in  abundance,  without  measure.  And  whatsoever  my 
brother  desires  for  his  house  let  him  send,  and  get  it,  for 
I  will  grant  every  request  (!)  that  my  brother  makes.  For 
this  land  is  my  brother's  land,  and  this  house  is  his  house. 

Now  I  send  my  messenger,  Gilia,  to  my  brother,  and  let 
my  brother  not  detain  him,  but  let  him  return  in  haste.  As 
I,  when  I  hear  of  the  prosperity  of  my  brother,  greatly  re- 
joice, may  I  always  hear  of  the  prosperity  of  my  brother! 
And  the  messages  that  we  send  may  Tishub,  the  lord,  and 
Amanum  so  order,  that  they  may  accomplish  their  pur- 
pose, and  may  they  always  remain  as  they  now  are!  As 
we  are  (now)  on  terms  of  cordial  friendship,  so  may  we 
as  now,  always  remain  cordial  friends! 

Now,  as  a  present  for  my  brother,  one  great  golden 
vessel,  ornamented  (!)  with  lapis-lazuli  stones  *  *  *  one 
heavy  vessel  ornamented  ( !)  with  twenty  lapis-lazuli  stones, 
and  nineteen  gold  (ornaments);  in  the  centre  of  these  were 


224 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


lapis  lazuli  chased  in  gold;  another  heavy  vessel  with  forty- 
two  hulalu-stones  and  forty  gold  (ornaments)  *  *  *  the 
centre  was  decked  with  hulalu-stones  chased  in  gold.  Ten 
span  of  horses,  ten  wooden  chariots  with  all  their  appur- 
tenances, and  thirty  women  I  have  sent  as  a  present  to  my 
brother. 


V.    LETTER  FROM  TUSHRATTA,  KING  OF  MITANI,  TO 
AMENOPHIS  IV,  KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  Naphuria,  King  of  Egypt,  my  brother,  my  son-in- 
law,  who  loves  me,  and  whom  I  love.  Tushratta,  King  of 
Mitani,  thy  father-in-law,  who  loves  thee,  thy  brother. 
With  me  it  is  well.  May  it  be  well  with  thee,  with  thy 
houses,  thy  mother  Ti,  and  the  land  of  Egypt,  my  daughter 
Tatuhipa,  thy  wife,  thy  other  wives,  thy  sons,  thy  nobles, 
thy  chariots,  thy  horses,  thy  cities,  thy  land,  and  with  all 
thy  possessions  may  it  be  very  well! 

Pirizzi  and  Bubri,  my  messengers,  I  sent  to  my  brother 
as  *  *  *  and  ordered  them  to  express  great  sorrow.  And 
then  I  sent  them  again.  And  this  word,  on  the  former 
occasion,  I  spake  to  my  brother:  "  Mani,  my  brother's  mes- 
senger, I  will  retain  until  my  brother  sends  my  messenger 
and  (until)  he  arrives."  *  *  *  And  now,  my  brother  *  *  * 
has  not  sent  them  back,  but  has  (rather)  seriously  detained 
them.  The  messengers  should  not  wait  at  all,  but  they 
should  hasten  to  return.  Because  of  the  messengers,  why 
should  I  [distress]  my  brother?  Why  should  we  not  each 
send  [a  messenger]  to  the  other,  to  learn  of  the  prosperity 
of  the  other,  that  we  may  daily  (!)  live  in  exceeding  joy. 
Let  my  brother  send  my  messenger  at  once,  that  I  may 
know  of  my  brother's  prosperity  *  *  *  [About  eight  lines 
wanting]  *  *  *  (my  messenger)  I  will  send  with  a  good 
message,  and  will  hear  a  good  message  from  my  brother 

*  *  *  and  may  my  brother  be  gracious,  and  my  brother 

*  *  *  his  whole  heart,  and  may  he  not  grieve  my  heart! 
And  all  the  words  which  I  spoke  with  thy  father,  Ti,  thy 


THE   TEL-EL-AM ARNA   LETTERS  225 

mother,  knows,  and  no  one  else  knows  them.  Therefore, 
I  say,  ask  Ti,  thy  mother,  about  them.  She  will  tell  thee 
how  thy  father  was  on  cordial  terms  with  me;  and  so 
now  my  brother  should  be  on  cordial  terms  with  me,  and 
let  my  brother  not  listen  to  anything  hostile  thereto. 


VI.    A   LETTER   FROM   THE    KING   OF    ALASHIYA    [CYPRUS!] 
TO  THE  KING  OF   EGYPT 

To  the  king  of  Egypt,  my  brother,  as  follows:  The 
king  of  the  land  of  Alashiya,  thy  brother.  I  am  well ;  with 
my  houses,  my  wife,  my  sons,  my  nobles,  my  horses,  my 
chariots,  and  throughout  my  lands,  may  it  be  very  well! 
And  with  my  brother  may  it  be  well;  with  thy  houses,  thy 
wives,  thy  sons,  thy  nobles,  thy  horses,  thy  chariots,  and 
throughout  thy  lands,  may  it  be  very  well!  My  brother, 
I  have  just  sent  my  messenger  with  thy  messenger  to 
Egypt.  Now,  my  brother,  I  have  sent  thee  five  hundred 
(pieces  of)  bronze,  I  have  sent  them  as  a  present  to  my 
brother.  Let  not  my  brother  be  offended  because  there  is 
so  little  bronze;  for  in  my  land  the  hand  of  Nergal,  my 
lord,  has  slain  all  the  people  of  my  land,  and  there  is  no 
more  (production  of!)  bronze:  and  let  my  brother  not  be 
offended. 

Send  thy  messenger  in  haste,  with  my  messenger  (on  his 
return),  and  whatever  bronze  thou  desirest,  my  brother,  I 
will  send  thee. 

My  brother,  send  me  silver  in  great  abundance;  give 
me,  my  brother,  silver  as  *  *  *  And  as  for  my  brother, 
whatever  thou,  my  brother,  desirest,  I  will  send  thee. 

Again,  my  brother,  the  ox  for  which  my  messenger 
asked  thee,  give  me,  my  brother.  And  fine  oil,  my  broth- 
er, two  kukupu  vessels,  send  me,  my  brother,  also  send 
me  one  of  the  conjuring  (!)  eagles. 

Furthermore,  my  brother,  the  people  of  my  land  have 
contested  with  me  with  regard  to  taking  my  timber  to  the 
King  of  Egypt,  and,  my  brother,  asses,  and  *  *  * 
IS 


226        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

And  again,  a  man  of  Alashiya  has  died  in  the  land  of 
Egypt,  and  his  property  is  in  thy  land,  and  his  son  and  his 
wife  are  with  me.  Let  my  brother  collect  the  property  of 
the  man  of  Alashiya,  and  put  it,  my  brother,  into  the  hand 
of  my  messenger. 

Do  not  be  offended,  my  brother,  because  thy  messenger 
has  been  three  years  in  my  land,  for  the  hand  of  Nerg^l  is 
upon  my  land,  and  in  my  own  house  my  wife  gave  birth 
to  a  child,  which  died. 

Send  thy  messenger  with  my  messenger  in  very  great 
haste,  and  I  will  send  thee  an  appropriate  present. 

And  again,  my  brother,  the  silver  for  which  I  asked 
thee,  let  my  brother  send  in  large  quantities!  And  the 
property  (of  the  man  of  Alashiya),  for  which  I  asked, 
send.  And  all  my  desires  of  every  kind,  my  brother, 
meet.  And  all  thy  desires  made  known  to  me  I  will 
satisfy. 

With  the  king  of  the  Hittites,  and  the  King  of  Shanhar, 
even  with  them  have  nothing  to  do;  as  for  me,  whatever 
presents  they  have  sent  me  I  will  return  to  thee  twofold. 

Thy  messenger  should  come  to  me  with  authority,  and 
my  messenger  should  go  to  you  with  authority. 


VII.    LETTER  FROM  ABD-ASHRATU   TO  THE  KING  OF 

EGYPT 

To  the  king,  the  sun,  my  lord,  as  follows:  Abd-Ash- 
ratu,  thy  servant,  the  dust  of  thy  feet.  At  the  feet  of  my 
lord,  the  king,  seven  times  (and)  seven  times  I  prostrate  my- 
self. Indeed,  I  am  the  servant  of  the  king,  and  the  dog  of 
his  house,  and  the  entire  land  of  Amurri  I  am  guarding  for 
my  lord,  the  king.  I  have  requested  Pahanti,  my  superior 
officer,  again  and  again  to  furnish  troops  for  the  defence  of 
the  king's  country.  *  *  *  [Several  lines  mutilated.]  *  *  * 
May  my  lord,  the  king,  ask  him  whether  I  do  not  defend 
the  cities  of  Simyra  and  Ullaza!  If  my  superior  officer  is 
in  *  *  *  of  the  king,  the  sun,  then  should  I  harvest  the 


THE   TEL-EL-AMARNA  LETTERS 


227 


grain  of  Simyra?  For  all  the  countries  for  the  king,  my 
sun,  my  lord,  I  defend.  And  let  my  lord,  the  king,  know 
it;  and  he  has  put  me  under  Pahanati,  my  superior  officer. 


VIII.    LETTER  FROM  THE  PEOPLE  .OF  THE  CITY  OF  DUNIP 
TO  THE  KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  King  of  Egypt,  our  lord:  The  inhabitants  of  the 
city  of  Dunip,  thy  servant(s).  May  it  be  well  with  thee; 
at  the  feet  of  our  lord  I  (we)  prostrate  ourselves.  My  lord, 
the  city  of  Dunip,  thy  servant  speaks  as  follows:  Who,  in 
former  times,  could  have  plundered  Dunip  and  escape  be- 
ing plundered  by  Manahbiria?  *  *  *  The  gods  and  the 
*  *  *  of  the  King  of  Egypt,  our  lord,  dwell  in  the  city 
of  Dunip.  Let  our  lord  inquire  of  his  elders  (on  this  mat- 
ter)— but  now  we  no  longer  belong  to  the  King  of  Egypt. 
And  now  for  twenty  years  we  have  kept  on  sending  to  the 
king,  our  lord,  but  our  messengers  remain  with  the  king, 
our  lord.  And  now,  our  lord,  we  have  made  request  of  the 
king,  our  lord,  for  Jadi-Addu,  and  may  our  lord  grant  him! 
For,  O  lord,  the  King  of  Egypt  (once)  granted  him  (to 
return),  and  why  did  the  king,  our  lord,  cause  him,  (while) 
on  the  way  (home),  to  return  (to  Egypt)? 

And  now  Azira,  thy  servant,  has  heard  of  thy  *  *  * 
and  in  the  land  Hatat  has  taken  them  by  force.  And  if  his 
(the  king's)  troops  and  chariots  delay,  the  (forces  of)  Azira 
will  make  us  like  the  city  of  Ni.  When  we  shall  mourn,  the 
King  of  Egypt  will  be  grieved,  because  of  those  things  that 
Azira  shall  have  done,  for  he  will  turn  his  hand  against  our 
lord.  And  when  Azira  enters  the  city  of  Simyra,  Azira  will 
treat  us  as  he  wishes,  in  the  territory  of  our  lord,  the  king, 
and  on  account  of  these  things  our  lord  will  be  grieved. 
And  now  Dunip,  thy  city,  is  weeping,  and  her  tears  are 
flowing,  and  there  is  no  help  within  reach. 

For  twenty  years  we  have  been  sending  to  our  lord,  the 
king,  the  King  of  Egypt,  but  not  one  word  has  come  to 
us  from  our  lord,  the  king. 


228       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

IX.    LETTER  FROM  AZIRI  TO  DUDU 
His  intercessor  at  the  court  of  the  Egyptian  king 

To  my  lord,  Dudu,  my  father,  as  follows:  Aziri,  thy 
son,  thy  servant.  At  my  father's  feet  I  fall  down.  May 
it  be  well  with  my  father! 

Now,  O  Dudu,  I  am  gfiving  what  my  lord  desires,  and 
whatever  are  the  desires  of  the  king,  my  lord,  let  him  write, 
and  I  will  gratify  them. 

Again,  behold,  thou  art  in  (that)  place,  my  father,  and 
all  the  wishes  of  Dudu,  my  father,  write,  and  I  will  gratify 
them. 

Behold,  thou  art  my  father  and  my  lord,  and  I  am  thy 
son,  and  the  lands  of  Amuri  are  thy  lands,  and  my  house 
is  thy  house.  And  whatever  thou  desirest  write,  and  I  will 
gratify  thy  desire. 

Behold,  thou  sittest  before  the  king,  my  lord  *  *  * 
[Eight  lines  are  badly  interrupted  by  breaks]  *  *  *  the 
slanderous  words  against  me,  do  not  permit. 

Behold,  I  am  a  servant  of  the  king,  my  lord,  and  the 
words  of  my  lord,  the  king,  the  words  of  Dudu,  my  father, 
I  will  never  transgress. 

And  if  the  king,  my  lord,  does  not  love  me,  but  hates 
me,  can  I  say  anything? 


X.    LETTER  FROM  AZIRI  TO  DUDU 
Intercessor  at  the  Egyptian  court 

To  Dudu,  my  lord,  my  father:  Aziri,  thy  servant.  At 
the  feet  of  my  lord,  I  prostrate  myself.  Hatib  is  here,  and 
has  brought  the  cordial  and  good  words  of  my  lord,  the 
king,  and  I  very  greatly  rejoiced.  My  country  also,  and 
my  brothers,  servants  of  the  king,  my  lord,  and  the  serv- 
ants of  my  lord,  Dudu,  were  very  happy,  when  the  utter- 
ance of  my  lord,  the  king,  reached  me.     From  the  words  of 


THE  TEL-EL-AMARNA  LETTERS  229 

my  lord,  my  god,  my  sun,  and  from  the  words  of  Dudu, 
my  lord,  I  do  not  depart. 

Behold,  my  lord,'  Hatib  is  with  me;  he  and  I  will  go  to- 
gether. My  lord,  the  king  of  the  Hittites  has  marched  into 
the  land  of  Nuhashshe,  and  the  cities  are  not  sufficiently 
strong  to  maintain  their  independence  before  the  king  of 
the  Hittites.  But  (in  case  they  could)  Hatib  and  I  would 
come. 

May  my  lord,  the  king,  hear  my  words!  My  lord,  I 
fear  the  face  of  my  lord,  the  king,  and  Dudu.  For  indeed, 
my  gods,  and  my  messenger,  and  my  kinsmen,  are  Dudu 
and  the  officers  of  my  lord,  the  king,  and  I  will  come. 
And  the  following,  (hear)  O  Dudu,  and  my  lord,  the  king, 
and  the  officers:  when  any  snares  are  hidden  for  Aziri,  in 
a  way  which  betokens  evil,  then  thou  shouldst  say  to  my 
gods  and  to  my  god,  that  Hatib  and  I  are  servant(s)  of 
the  king.  Dudu,  thou  shouldst  know  that  I  am  coming 
to  you. 


XI.    LETTER   FROM   AZIRI    TO   HAI 
An  Egyptian  general 

To  Hai,  my  brother:  Aziri,  thy  brother.  May  it  be 
well  with  thee,  and  with  the  troops  of  my  lord,  the  king, 
may  it  be  very  well!  In  everything  I  seek  the  face  of  my 
lord,  the  king;  I  seek  for  the  good.  I,  and  my  sons,  and 
my  brothers,  are  all  good  servants  of  my  lord,  the  king. 
Indeed,  Hatib  and  I  will  come  in  great  haste.  O  Hai, 
Tnayest  thou  know  that  I  am  coming!  From  the  words  of 
my  lord  and  from  thy  words  I  do  not  deviate.  I  am  the 
servant  of  my  lord. 

The  king  of  the  Hittites  is  stopping  in  Nuhashshi,  and 
fear  him,  lest  he  should  advance  on  Martu.  For  when  the 
city  of  Dunip  falls  then  *  *  *  the  way  to  the  place  where 
he  is  stopping.  And  I  fear  him,  and  for  this  reason  I 
shall  stop  until  he  leaves.  Hatib  and  I  will  come  with 
all  haste. 


230       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

XIL    LETTER  FROM  THE  KING  OF  EGYPT  TO  THE 
PRINCE  OF  AMURRA  (AZIRI) 

Brought  by  Hanni 

To  the  Prince  of  Amurra:  The  king  thy  lord.  The 
Prince  of  Gebal,  thy  brother,  whom  his  brother  *  *  *  in 
the  gate  *  *  *  "  Take  me  and  bring  me  into  my  city  *  *  * 
I  will  compensate  thee,  for  I  have  nothing  with  me  now." 
So  he  spoke  to  thee  in  taking  a  prince,  whom  his  brother 
in  the  gate  *  *  *  from  his  city. 

And  when  he  was  living  in  Sidon,  thou  deliveredst  him 
over  to  the  (hostile)  princes,  according  to  thine  idea  (of 
thy  authority),  but  thou  didst  not  know  the  hatred  of  the 
people.  If  thou  art  really  a  true  servant  of  the  king,  why 
didst  thou  not  cause  him  to  be  brought  before  thy  lord, 
the  king,  thinking:  "  This  prince  sent  to  me,  saying, '  Take 
me  and  bring  me  into  my  city'  "?  And  even  if  thou  art 
acting  faithfully,  all  the  words  are  not  true  which  thou 
sentest  me  *  *  *  the  king  thinks  that  all  that  thou  sayest 
is  not  true.  And  it  is  indeed  reported  that  thou  hast  made 
peace  with  the  Prince  of  Kadesh,  mutually  to  furnish  food 
and  drink,  and  it  is  true.  Why  hast  thou  done  thus  to 
make  peace  with  a  prince  toward  whom  another  prince 
is  hostile?  For  if  thou  shalt  prove  faithful,  and  look  to 
thine  own  and  to  his  interests,  then  thou  canst  not  keep  the 
promises  which  thou  didst  formerly  make.  Whatever  thine 
attitude  toward  them,  thou  canst  not  be  with  the  king,  thy 
lord. 

Now,  these  whom  *  *  *  into  the  fire,  they  are  seeking 
to  *  *  *  thee,  and  to  bum  thee,  and  what  thou  very  much 
lovest.  But  if  thou  wilt  be  submissive  to  thy  lord,  the  king, 
then  what  is  there  that  the  king  would  not  do  for  thee? 
But  if  thou  dost  persist  in  doing  acts  of  unfriendliness,  and 
dost  cherish  wickedness,  thoughts  of  hostility  in  thy  heart, 
then  by  (command  of)  the  overseer  of  the  king,  thou  wilt 
die,  together  with  thy  whole  family.  Now,  be  subservient  to 
thy  lord,  the  king,  and  thou  shalt  live.    Thou  knowest  that 


THE   TEL-EUAMARNA   LETTERS  231 

the  king  does  not  wish  to  invade  all  Kinahhi.  And  since 
thou  didst  send  word  to  me  thus:  "  Let  the  king,  my  lord, 
leave  me  alone  this  year,  and  next  year  I  will  appear  before 
my  lord,  the  king;  for  my  son  is  not  here";  now,  then, 
thy  lord,  the  king,  has  left  thee  (alone)  this  (past)  year,  as 
thou  didst  request.  But  if  thy  son  is  with  thee  again,  send 
(him)  and  come  to  visit  the  king,  by  whose  glance  all 
lands  have  life.  And  do  not  say,  "  I  would  prefer  to  omit " 
this  year  the  going  to  thy  lord,  the  king,  and  do  not  send 
thy  son  to  thy  lord,  the  king,  that  he  might  go  in  your 
stead. 

The  king,  thy  lord,  has  indeed  heard  that  thou  sentest 
(word)  to  the  king,  as  follows:  "  Let  my  lord,  the  king, 
send  Hanni,  the  king's  messenger,  for  the  second  time;  then 
I  will  send  by  his  hand  the  enemies  of  the  king."  Now, 
he  is  come  to  thee  as  thou  didst  request,  therefore  send 
them  and  let  not  one  of  them  escape.  Now,  thy  lord,  the 
king,  is  sending  thee  the  names  of  the  enemies  of  the  king 
by  letter,  by  the  hand  of  Hanni,  the  king's  messenger; 
therefore  send  them  to  thy  lord,  the  king,  and  let  not  one 
of  them  escape.  And  put  shackles  of  bronze  on  their  feet. 
Indeed,  the  people  whom  thou  shouldst  send  to  thy  lord, 
the  king,  (are  these) :  "  Sharru,  together  with  all  his  sons, 
Tuia,  Liia,  together  with  all  his  sons,  Jishyari,  together 
with  all  his  sons,  the  son-in-law  of  Malia,  together  with  his 
sons,  and  his  wives.  The  pamaha  of  Hanni  is  the  paitiu, 
who  will  read  the  message;  Dashirti,  Paluma,  Nimahi,  the 
robber,  in  Amurri. 

Now  know  that  the  king,  the  sun  in  the  heavens,  is 
well,  his  warriors  and  his  chariots  are  many,  from  the  upper 
country  to  the  lower  country,  the  rising  of  the  sun  to  the 
going  down  of  the  same  everything  is  very  prosperous. 

XIII.    LETTER  FROM  AZIRI  TO  THE  KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  great  king,  my  lord,  my  god,  my  sun :  Aziri  thy 
servant  seven  times  seven  times  at  the  feet  of  my  lord,  my 
god,  my  sun,  I  prostrate  myself.    Oh,  my  lord,  I  am  thy 


232 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


servant,  and  in  prostration  before  the  king,  my  lord,  I  speak 
all  my  words  before  my  lord. 

My  lord,  do  not  pay  attention  to  the  enemies  who 
slander  me  in  the  presence  of  the  king,  my  lord;  I 
am  thy  servant  forever.  And  since  my  lord,  the  king, 
mentions  Hani  (I  reply):  My  lord,  I  was  staying  in 
Dunip,  and  did  not  know  when  he  came.  As  soon  as 
I  learned  of  it,  I  set  out  after  him,  but  did  not  overtake 
him.  If  Hani  should  return  in  good  shape,  let  my  lord, 
the  king,  ask  him  how  I  cared  for  him.  My  brother 
and  Bati-il  served  him;  oxen,  sheep,  and  birds,  his  food 
and  his  drink  they  gave  him.  Horses  and  asses  I  gave  for 
his  journey.  May  my  lord,  the  king,  give  heed  to  my  words: 
When  I  go  to  visit  my  lord,  the  king,  then  Hani  comes  to 
meet  me,  and  cares  for  me  like  a  father  or  like  a  mother. 
And  now  my  lord  says,  "  From  Hani  thou  hast  taken 
flight."  Thy  gods  and  the  sun  know  whether  I  was  not 
staying  in  Dunip. 

Now,  since  my  lord,  the  king,  gave  orders  for  the 
rebuilding  of  Simyra  (I  reply):  The  kings  of  Nuhashshe 
are  hostile  to  me,  and  my  cities  by  the  orders  of  Hatib 
they  are  seizing,  and  consequently  I  have  not  rebuilt 
it.  But  now  I  will  rebuild  it  in  all  haste.  And  may 
my  lord  know  that  half  of  the  weapons  which  my  lord, 
the  king,  gave  me,  Hatib  has  taken  away.  Both  the  gold 
and  the  silver  which  my  lord,  the  king,  gave  me,  Hatib 
has  taken  it  all.    And  may  my  lord  know  it ! 

Again,  also,  my  lord,  the  king,  says,  "  Why  didst  thou 
care  for  the  messengers  of  the  king  of  the  Hittites,  and 
not  care  for  my  messenger?"  (I  reply),  "This  country 
belongs  to  my  lord,  and  the  king,  my  lord,  has  ap- 
pointed me  prince."  May  there  come  a  messenger  of 
my  lord,  and  all  that  I  promised,  my  lord,  I  will  give; 
may  he  grant  living  souls,  ships,  oil,  weapons,  and 
chariots  (!) 


THE   TEL-EL-AMARNA  LETTERS 


233 


XIV.    LETTER  FROM  RIB-ADDI  OF  GEBAL  IN  PHCENICIA 
TO  THE  KING  OF  EGYPT 

Rib-Addi  addresses  the  lord  of  the  lands,  the  king  of 
the  lands,  the  great  king,  the  king  of  battle:  May  Ba'alat 
of  Gebal  grant  power  to  the  king,  my  lord!  At  the  feet 
of  my  lord,  my  sun,  seven  times  seven  times  I  prostrate 
myself. 

Let  my  lord,  the  king,  know  that  all  is  well  with 
Gebal,  the  trusty  handmaid  of  the  king,  from  the  time  of 
his  fathers;  but  now  the  king  has  allowed  his  faithful  city 
to  pass  out  from  under  his  hand.  Let  my  lord,  the  king, 
look  about  the  lands  of  the  house  of  his  father  (to  see) 
whether  the  man  who  is  in  Gebal  is  not  a  faithful  servant. 

Thou  canst  not  complain  of  thy  servant  if  the  hostility 
of  the  confederates  is  effective  against  him  and  against  the 
gods  of  thy  land.  Our  sons  and  our  daughters  and  our 
*  *  *  will  be  lost,  because  we  must  give  them  to  Jarimuta 
for  our  sustenance.  My  fields  (are  unproductive!)  because 
there  is  no  sowing.  All  my  cities  situated  on  the  mountains 
and  by  the  sea-shore  have  fallen  into  the  hands  of  the  con- 
federates. Gebal  (only)  and  two  cities  still  belong  to  me. 
And  behold  now  Abd-Ashirta  has  taken  Shigata  for  himself, 
and  has  said  to  the  people  of  Ammia,  "  Kill  your  lord,  and 
do  as  we  are  doing,  and  you  will  then  have  peace."  And 
they  have  done  according  to  his  words,  and  have  become 
like  the  confederates. 

And  now  behold  Abd-Ashirta  has  sent  to  the  people 
of  Bit-Ninib  (saying),  "Assemble  yourselves,  and  we 
will  fall  upon  Gebal."  If  there  were  a  man  to  save  us 
from  their  hands,  and  could  rescue  (?)  the  lords  of  the 
lands,  and  all  lands  should  act  with  the  *  *  *  then  thou 
couldst  be  judge  over  all  lands,  and  the  boys  and  the  girls 
would  always  live  in  safety.  And  if  the  king  (himself) 
should  pass  along,  though  all  the  lands  were  in  rebellion 
against  him,  what  could  they  do  to  us?  Thus  they  (the 
people)  would  be  generally  prosperous.     But  I  greatly  fear 


234 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


that  there  is  no  man  to  rescue  me  out  of  their  hands;  like 
a  bird  which  is  taken  in  a  net,  so  shall  I  be  in  the  city  of 
Gebal.  Why  dost  thou  neglect  thy  country?  Behold,  I 
sent  to  the  king's  palace,  but  they  paid  no  attention  to 
my  message. 

Now,  (since)  Amanappa  is  with  thee;  ask  him;  he 
knows,  and  has  seen  the  distress  which  has  fallen  upon  me. 
May  the  king  heed  the  words  of  his  servant,  and  give  life 
to  his  servant,  that  his  servant  may  live!  Then  will  I 
guard  his  faithful  city  until  *  *  *  our  gods  *  *  *  and 
let  the  king  look  upon  his  country,  and  *  *  *  upon  *  *  * 
may  it  seem  good  to  my  lord,  the  king,  to  send  his  *  *  * 
and  that  I  should  hold  to  my  place,  and  should  come 
before  my  lord,  the  king.  And  may  it  be  plain  to  thee 
what  I  am  doing  in  my  *  *  *  Indeed,  I  am  thus  thought- 
ful by  day  and  by  night. 


XV.    LETTER  FROM  RIB-ADDI  TO  THE  KING  OF  EGYPT 

Rib-Addi  says  to  the  king  of  the  lands,  the  great  king, 
the  king  of  battle:  May  Ba'alat  of  Gebal  bestow  power  on 
the  king,  my  lord!  At  the  feet  of  my  lord,  my  sun,  seven 
times  and  seven  times  I  prostrate  myself.  Know,  since 
Amanappa  came  to  me,  all  the  confederates  have  turned 
against  me  by  the  demand  of  Abd-Ashirta.  Now,  let  my 
lord  give  heed  to  the  words  of  his  servant,  and  despatch 
a  garrison  for  the  defence  of  the  king's  city  until  the  ad- 
vance of  the  home  guards.  If  there  were  no  home  guards 
all  the  lands  would  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  confederates. 
Since  the  city  of  Mar  *  *  *  (has  espoused)  the  cause  of 
Abd-Ashirta,  they  are  trying  to  capture  Gebal  and  Beyrut, 
and  all  the  lands  will  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  confederates. 
The  two  cities  that  (still)  remain  to  me  they  are  trying  to 
snatch  from  the  king's  power.  Let  my  lord  send  a  gar- 
rison to  his  two  cities  until  the  advance  of  the  home  guards, 
and  despatch  me  rations;  and  there  is  nothing  for  them  to 
drink.     Like  a  bird  which  has  been  taken  in  a  net,  so  am 


THE   TEL-EL-AMARNA   LETTERS 


235 


I  in  the  city  of  Gebal.  Now,  in  case  the  king  is  not  able 
to  save  me  from  his  enemies,  the  lands  will  fall  into  the 
power  of  Abd-Ashirta  *  *  *  (he  is)  a  dog  and  (will  take) 
the  king's  lands  for  his  own. 

XVI.    LETTER  FROM   RIB-ADDI   TO  THE   KING  OF  EGYPT 

Rib-Addi  to  my  lord,  the  king:  At  thy  feet  seven  and 
seven  times  I  prostrate  myself.  I  have  written  several 
times  (to  thee),  but  *  *  *  (broken)  *  *  *  my  lord,  the 
king,  has  paid  no  attention  to  my  words;  and  I  despatched 
my  messenger  to  court,  but  (he  came  back)  empty-handed, 
without  any  garrison  with  him.  And  when  my  brothers 
saw  that  not  (even)  in  my  legal  proceedings  was  I  up- 
held (!),  not  to  me,  as  to  the  princes,  my  brothers  *  *  * 
and  I  went  over  to  Ammunira,  and  my  brother  left  me,  to 
seize  (!)  Gebal,  (and)  to  turn  the  city  over  to  the  sons  of 
Abd-Ashirta.  When  my  brother  shall  see  that  my  mes- 
senger has  come  (from  Egypt)  empty-handed,  without  any 
garrison,  he  will  oppose  me,  and  so  become  guilty,  and 
drive  me  from  the  city. 

Let  not  the  king,  my  lord,  disregard  this  thing!  In- 
deed, I  am  not  able  to  go  to  Egypt.  Age  and  disease 
are  burdensome  to  me.  Let  my  lord,  the  king,  know 
that  the  gods  of  Gebal  are  aggravated  and  exceedingly 
troubled,  for  my  sins  are  against  the  gods!  Thus  I  do 
not  go  before  my  lord,  the  king.  But  then  I  have  sent 
my  son,  the  servant  of  the  king,  my  lord,  to  the  king, 
my  lord.  Let  the  king  hear  the  words  of  his  servant, 
and  may  the  king,  my  lord,  send  troops  to  hold  (!)  Gebal, 
that  the  foe  (!)  may  not  enter  (it)  *  *  *  I  have  sent  to 
it  *  *  *  the  troops  of  my  lord,  the  king,  to  occupy  it. 
Behold  them  *  *  *  my  adherents  in  the  city,  and  the  ene- 
my will  abandon  it.  Should  the  troops  march  out,  and 
seize  (!)  it  on  the  day  of  its  capture,  then  will  the  city  revert 
to  my  lord,  the  king.  Let  my  lord  know,  then,  that  I  am 
his  faithful  servant.  While  I  am  in  the  city  I  will  protect 
it  for  my  lord. 


236       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Let  my  lord,  the  king,  take  great  care  that  the  city  be 
not  turned  over  to  the  sons  of  Abd-Ashirta.  For  my 
brother  has  stirred  up  the  city,  in  order  to  turn  it  over  to 
the  sons  of  Abd-Ashirta.  Let  not  my  lord,  the  king,  neg- 
lect his  city.  Because  there  is  in  it  much  silver  and  gold; 
in  its  temples  there  is  much  property  if  they  should  cap- 
ture it.  As  my  lord,  the  king,  proposes  to  do  for  his  serv- 
ant, let  him  do,  and  let  him  give  the  city  of  Bur-selem  for 
my  home.  Now,  I  shall  be  at  Ammunira  if  this  city  is  lost. 
Against  Bur-selem  the  sons  of  Abd-Ashirta  will  make  a 
hostile  demonstration,  if  I  should  go  to  Ammunira.  For 
the  sons  of  Abd-Ashirta,  since  they  are  gaining  on  me, 
and  there  is  a  message  from  the  king  for  me,  I  say  to  my 
lord:  Behold  Gebal  is  their  city;  there  is  considerable  of 
the  king's  property  in  it,  the  heritage  from  our  father. 

Formerly  when  the  king  had  neglected  any  of  the  cities 
of  his  country  *  *  *  Behold,  then,  I  have  sent  thy  servant, 
my  son,  to  my  lord,  the  king,  and  may  the  king  send  him 
back  with  all  haste,  and  with  him  troops  to  garrison  the 
city!  If  my  lord,  the  king,  *  *  *  me  and  brings  me  back 
to  the  city,  I  will  defend  it,  as  formerly,  for  my  lord  the 
king  *  *  *  (several  lines  broken)  *  *  *  Let  my  lord,  the 
king,  give  heed  to  [the  words  of]  his  servant  *  *  *  [may 
he  send]  troops,  and  may  the  troops  occupy  the  city  with 
all  speed,  and  hold  it!  If  the  king  is  thinking  the  matter 
over,  let  my  lord,  the  king,  not  neglect  the  city  *  *  *  con- 
cerning that  baneful  act  *  *  *  which  he  formerly  com- 
mitted against  my  lord,  the  king,  *  *  *  the  troops  of  my 
lord,  the  king,  may  my  lord,  the  king,  send  quickly! 


XVIL    LETTER  FROM  ZIMRIDA  OF  SIDON   TO  THE  KING 
OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  th,e  breath  of 
my  life  says:  Zimrida,  the  Prince  of  Sidon. 

At  the  feet  of  my  lord,  my  gods,  the  sun,  the  breath  of 
my  life,  at  the  feet  of  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  the 


THE  TEL-EL-AMARNA  LETTERS 


237 


breath  of  my  life,  seven  and  seven  times  I  prostrate  myself. 
Let  the  king,  my  lord,  know  of  the  prosperity  of  Sidon, 
the  handmaid  of  the  king,  my  lord,  which  he  put  into 
my  hand. 

And  when  he  heard  the  message  of  the  king,  my  lord, 
which  he  wrote  to  his  servant,  then  my  heart  was  glad; 
I  lifted  my  head,  and  my  eyes  gleamed  when  I  heard  the 
message  of  the  king,  my  lord.  Let  the  king  know  then 
that  I  am  at  the  disposal  of  the  troops  of  the  king,  my 
lord.  I  dispose  of  everything,  as  the  king,  my  lord,  orders. 
And  may  the  king,  my  lord,  know  that  the  power  of  the 
enemy  against  me  is  very  great;  all  the  cities  which  the 
king  put  into  my  hand  have  fallen  into  the  power  of  the 
invaders. 

And  may  the  king  commit  me  to  the  hand  of  the  man 
who  commands  at  the  head  of  the  troops  of  the  king, 
that  I  may  inquire  about  the  cities  which  have  fallen  into 
the  power  of  the  invaders,  and  that  I  may  restore  them 
to  my  hand,  and  to  the  service  of  the  king,  my  lord,  as 
my  fathers  (served  him)  formerly! 


XVIII.    LETTER  FROM  ABI-MILKI,  OF  TYRE,  TO  THE 
KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord:  Abi-miiki,  thy  servant,  seven 
and  seven  times  at  the  feet  of  the  king,  my  lord,  I  pros- 
trate myself.  I  am  dust  under  the  sandals  of  the  king, 
my  lord.  I  have  heard  what  the  king  has  written  to  his 
servant  *  *  *  what  he  ordered  to  do  I  do  with  exceeding 
great  pleasure.  Again,  since  the  troops  of  the  king,  my 
lord,  forsook  me,  the  Prince  of  Sidon,  my  brother,  has  re- 
fused to  allow  me  to  go  to  the  (main)land  to  get  wood, 
to  get  drinking  water. 

[The  remaining  ten  lines  are  badly  mutilated.] 


238        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


XIX.    LETTER  FROM  SHUWARDATA  TO  THE 
KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  saying:  Shu- 
wardata,  thy  servant,  the  dust  of  thy  feet.  At  the  feet  of 
the  king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  seven  and  seven 
times  I  prostrate  myself.  The  king,  my  lord,  g^ve  me  a 
commission  to  wage  war  against  the  city  of  Keila.  I  car- 
ried on  war  and  was  victorious,  and  my  city  was  restored 
to  me. 

Why  did  Abd-hiba  [of  Jerusalem]  write  to  the  peo- 
ple of  Keila,  "Accept  money  and  become  my  ally"? 
May  the  king,  my  lord,  know  that  Abd-hiba  has  taken  my 
city  from  me!  Again,  let  the  king,  my  lord,  inquire 
whether  I  have  taken  a  man,  or  one  single  ox  or  an  ass 
from  him  or  from  his  right  (!)***  Again,  Lapaja  is 
dead,  he  who  took  our  cities;  and  Lapaja  was  truly  in 
league  (!)  with  Abd-hiba,  and    *  *  *  plundered  our  cities. 

[The  last  five  lines  are  badly  broken.] 


XX.    LETTER  OF  ABD-HIBA,  OF  JERUSALEM,  TO  THE 
KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thus  says  Abd-hiba,  thy  servant: 
At  the  feet  of  my  lord,  the  king,  seven  and  seven  times  I 
prostrate  myself. 

What  have  I  done  against  the  king,  my  lord?  They 
have  slandered  me  before  the  king,  my  lord,  thus:  "  Abd- 
hiba  has  rebelled  against  the  king,  his  lord."  Behold,  as 
for  me,  neither  my  father  nor  my  mother  appointed  me 
to  this  place.  The  mighty  arm  of  the  king  set  me  over 
the  house  of  my  father.  Why  should  I  be  guilty  before 
the  king,  my  lord?  As  sure  as  the  king  lives,  I  said  to 
the  officer  of  the  king,  my  lord,  "  Why  art  thou  favour- 
able to  the  invaders,  and  unfavourable  to  the  princes?  " 
For  this  they  slander  me  before  the  king,  my  lord. 

When  I  say,  "  The  land  of  the  king,  my  lord,  will  be 


THE  TEL-EL-AMARNA  LETTERS  239 

destroyed,"  then  they  slander  me  before  the  king,  my  lord. 
Let  the  king,  my  lord,  know  when  the  king,  my  lord, 
had  placed  a  garrison  *  *  *  Janhamu  took  (it)  (!).  [Five 
lines  badly  broken.]  There  is  no  garrison  there.  But  let 
the  king  have  care  for  his  territory  *  *  *  for  his  land;  the 
cities  of  the  king,  my  lord,  which  had  belonged  to  Ili- 
milki  are  gone;  all  the  country  of  the  king  will  be  lost 
(to  him).  Let  the  king,  my  lord,  have  care  for  his  terri- 
tory. 

Should  I  say,  "  I  will  go  to  visit  the  king,  my  lord, 
and  see  the  sorrow  of  the  king,  my  lord,"  the  enemies 
against  me  are  strong,  and  I  can  not  go  to  the  king,  my 
lord.  May  it  seem  good  to  the  king,  my  lord,  to  send  a 
garrison,  that  I  may  visit  and  see  the  sorrow  of  the  king, 
my  lord!  As  truly  as  the  king,  my  lord,  lives,  as  truly 
as  an  officer  marches  forth,  I  say:  The  territory  of  the  king 
is  being  destroyed.  If  thou  dost  not  give  heed  to  me,  all 
the  princes  will  be  lost,  and  the  king,  my  lord,  will  have 
no  (more)  princes  (in  this  territory). 

Let  the  king  give  his  attention  to  the  princes,  and  let 
the  king,  my  lord,  send  troops.  The  king  has  no  lands 
(left).  The  invaders  have  plundered  all  the  lands  of  the 
king.  If  troops  should  come  this  year,  the  lands  of  the 
king,  my  lord,  would  be  securely  his,  but  if  no  troops 
should  come,  the  lands  of  the  king,  my  lord,  would  be 
lost.  To  the  scribe  of  the  king,  my  lord:  Abd-hiba,  thy 
servant.  Declare  these  words  clearly  to  the  king,  my  lord: 
"  All  the  territory  of  the  king,  my  lord,  is  being  destroyed." 


XXI.    LETTER  FROM   ABD-TIRSHL  OF   HAZOR,  TO  THE 
KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  saying:  Abd-tirshi,  of  Hazor,  thy 
servant.  At  the  feet  of  the  king,  my  lord,  seven  and  seven 
times  at  the  feet  of  the  king,  my  lord,  I  prostrate  myself. 
Behold,  I  am  the  faithful  servant  of  the  king,  my  lord, 
and  I,  indeed,  am  defending  the  city  of  Hazor,  together 


240        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

with  its  villages,  for  the  king,  my  lord.  May  the  king,  my 
lord,  rejoice  and  reflect  upon  everything  that  has  happened 
to  Hazor,  thy  faithful  city,  and  to  thy  servant! 


XXIL  LETTER  FROM  JAPAHI,  OF  GEZER,  TO  THE 
KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  the  sun  in  the 
heavens,  saying:  Japahi,  of  Gezer,  thy  servant,  the  dust 
of  thy  feet,  the  groom  of  thy  horses.  At  the  feet  of  the 
king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  the  sun  in  the  heavens, 
seven  and  seven  times  I  prostrate  myself  upon  my  breast 
and  back.  I  have  heard  the  words  of  the  messenger  of  the 
king,  my  lord,  with  great  clearness.  And  let  the  king,  my 
lord,  the  sun  in  the  heavens,  look  well  to  his  land,  for  the 
invaders  are  mighty  against  us;  and  let  the  king,  my  lord, 
stretch  forth  his  hand  toward  me,  and  let  the  king,  my  lord, 
save  me  from  the  hand  of  the  invaders,  that  the  invaders 
may  not  destroy  us! 


XXIIL    LETTER  FROM  JITIA,  OF  ASHKELON,   TO  THE 
KING  OF   EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  the  sun  of 
heaven:  Jitia,  a  man  of  the  city  of  Ashkelon,  thy  servant, 
the  dust  of  thy  feet,  the  groom  of  thy  horses.  At  the 
feet  of  the  king,  my  lord,  the  sun  of  heaven,  seven  and 
seven  times  I  prostrate  myself.  The  officer  of  the  king, 
my  lord,  whom  the  king,  my  lord,  the  sun  of  heaven,  sent 
to  me — I  have  heard  his  words  with  great  clearness.  I  am, 
indeed,  guarding  the  king's  place  which  is  under  my  care. 


XXIV.    LETTER  FROM  ZIMRIDA,  OF  LACHISH,   TO  THE 
KING  OF  EGYPT 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  my  gods,  my  sun,  the  sun  of 
the  heavens:  Zimrida,  a  man  of  the  city  of  Lachish,  thy 
servant,  the  dust  of  thy  feet.    At  the  feet  of  the  king,  my 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LETTERS 


241 


lord,  the  sun  of  the  heavens,  seven  and  seven  times  I  cast 
myself  down.  As  to  the  messenger  of  the  king,  my  lord, 
whom  he  sent  to  me,  I  have  clearly  heard  his  words,  and  I, 
indeed,  will  do  according  to  his  command. 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LETTERS 

I.    A  LETTER  FROM   BEL-IBNI  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  524 ;   H.  282) 

Bel-ibni  was  a  man  of  high  rank,  a  general  in  the  armies  of  Sardana- 
palus,  and  served  with  distinction  during  the  revolt  of  Shamash-shum-ukin 
and  in  the  campaigns  against  Elam  and  the  warlike  Chaldeans  of  south- 
ern Babylonia.  As  to  his  birth  and  family  relations  we  have  little  infor- 
mation. He  had,  however,  a  brother,  Belshunu,  and  a  nephew,  his  sister's 
son,  Mushezib-Marduk.  The  nephew  held  a  high  military  command  under 
Bel-ibni ;  Belshunu,  seized  by  Nabu-bel-shumate  at  the  time  of  his  revolt, 
was  thrown  into  prison,  loaded  with  chains,  and  held  in  captivity  for  a 
considerable  period — an  injury  which  goes  far  to  account  for  the  impla- 
cable animosity  exhibited  by  Bel-ibni  toward  the  Chaldean  prince.  Bel- 
ibni  himself,  according  to  a  proclamation  of  the  king  to  the  people  of  the 
Gulf  District,  held  the  rank  of  manzaz  pani,  a  dignity  reserved  for  the 
most  exalted  nobility  and  the  highest  officers  of  state,  the  possessors  of 
which,  as  the  name  implies,  enjoyed  the  right  of  access  to  the  royal  pres- 
ence, and  of  a  place  near  the  king's  person  on  all  occasions  of  ceremony. 

To  the  lord  of  kings,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Bel-ibni! 
May  Ashur,  Shamash,  and  Marduk  decree  length  of  days, 
health  of  mind  and  body,  for  the  lord  of  kings,  my  lord! 

Shuma,  the  son  of  Shum-iddina,  son  of  Gakhal — son 
of  Tammaritu's  sister — fleeing  from  Elam,  reached  the 
(country  of  the)  Dakkha.  I  took  him  under  my  protection 
and  transferred  him  from  the  Dakkha  (hither).  He  is  ill. 
As  soon  as  he  completely  recovers  his  health,  I  shall  send 
him  to  the  king,  my  lord. 

A  messenger  has  come  to  him  (with  the  news)  that 

Nadan  and  the  Pukudeans  of  Til  *  *  *  had  a  meeting 

with  Nabu-bel-shumate  at  the  city  of  Targibati,  and  they 

took  a  mutual  oath  to  this  effect:  "According  to  agree- 

j6 


242        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

ment  we  shall  send  you  whatever  news  we  may  hear."  To 
bind  the  bargain  (?)  they  purchased  from  him  fifty  head  of 
cattle,  and  also  said  to  him,  "  Our  sheep  shall  come  and 
graze  in  the  pasture  (?),  among  the  Ubanateans,  in  order 
that  you  may  have  confidence  in  us."  Now  (I  should  ad- 
vise that)  a  messenger  of  my  lord,  the  king,  come  and  give 
Nadan  plainly  to  understand  as  follows:  "  If  thou  sendest 
anything  to  Elam  for  sale,  or  if  a  single  sheep  gets  over  to 
the  Elamite  pasture  (?),  I  will  not  let  thee  live."  The  king, 
my  lord,  may  thoroughly  rely  upon  my  report. 


II.    A  LETTER  FROM  BEL-IBNI  TO  THE  KING 
(K.  13 ;   H.  281) 

To  the  lord  of  kings,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Bel-ibni! 
May  Ashur,  Shamash,  and  Marduk  grant  health  of  mind 
and  body,  long  life,  and  a  lengthy  reign  to  the  lord  of  kings, 
my  lord! 

The  news  from  Elam  is  as  follows:  Ummakhaldash,  the 
former  king,  who  fled,  but  returned  again  and  seated  him- 
self upon  the  throne,  has  become  alarmed  and  left  the  city 
of  Madaktu.  His  mother,  his  wife,  his  sons,  and  all  his 
family  having  removed,  he  crossed  the  river  Ulaeus,  and 
went  southward  (?)  to  Talakh.  The  Nagir  Ummansimash, 
Undadu  the  Zilliru,  and  all  his  partisans  have  gone  in 
the  direction  of  Shukharisungur,  now  saying,  "  We  will 
dwell  in  the  Khukhan  country,"  and  now  again  "  in 
Kha'adalu."  1 

All  these  parts  are  in  terror  of  the  troops  of  the  lord  of 
kings,  my  lord.  The  Elamites  are  ravaged  as  though  (by) 
a  plague;  they  are  in  a  state  of  utter  calamity;  they  are  in- 
vaded by  panic.  When  need  came  upon  their  land,  the 
whole  country  fell  away  from  their  side.  All  the  Sakkha- 
deans  and  the  Sallukkeans  are  in  a  state  of  revolt,  saying, 
"  Why  did  ye  slay  Umkhuluma?  "     When  Ummakhaldash 

'  In  their  irresolution  they  were  unable  to  form  a  decided  and  consist- 
ent plan. 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LETTERS  243 

entered  Madaktu,  calling  together  all  his  partisans,  he  up- 
braided them  as  follows:  "  Did  I  not  say  to  you  before  I 
fled  that  I  wished  to  seize  Nabu-bel-shumate  and  give  him 
up  to  the  King  of  Assyria,  in  order  that  he  might  not  send 
his  troops  against  us?  You  heard  me,  and  can  bear  wit- 
ness to  my  words."  Now,  if  it  please  the  lord  of  kings, 
my  lord,  let  me  convey  the  royal  signet  to  Ummakhaldash, 
with  reference  to  the  capture  of  Nabii-bel-shumate.  I  shall 
send  it  secretly  to  Ummakhaldash.  If  the  lord,  the  king, 
should  say,  "  They  are  *  *  *,^  shall  I  send  my  message  to 
them  secretly?"  (I  would  suggest  that)  when  the  royal  mes- 
senger reaches  them  accompanied  by  an  escort  of  troops, 
that  accursed  scoundrel  Nabu-bel-shumate  will  hear  of  it, 
and,  paying  a  ransom  to  the  nobles,  will  buy  himself  off.  If 
the  gods  of  the  lord  of  kings,  my  lord,  would  only  bestir 
themselves,  they  would  catch  him  with  his  bow  unstrung, 
and  send  him  to  the  lord  of  kings,  my  lord. 

They  collect  all  the  tax  corn  (?)  in  Elam,  and,  putting 
it  in  charge  of  the  sharnuppu,^  they  live  on  it.  As  long  as 
Umkhuluma  was  alive,  Nabu-bel-shumate,  on  receiving  his 
share,  would  lavish  it  upon  his  partisans.  This  tax  corn  (?), 
in  charge  of  the  sharnuppu,  they  levy  from  Talakh  as  far 
as  Rade,  and  throughout  the  country  of  Salluk.  Now, 
Nabu-bel-shumate,  and  Nishkur-bel,  his  major-domo, 
whenever  they  catch  a  sharnuppu,  seize  him,  saying: 
"  Whenever  you  applied  to  Umkhuluma  for  our  provisions, 
he  used  to  give  them  to  you.  You  have  slain  the  people 
of  our  house  with  famine.  You  shall  straightway  restore  to 
us  our  stolen  provisions,  at  the  rate  of  ten  bar  for  one  qa  " 
(?).  They  withhold  it  from  Ummakhaldash,  and,  though 
he  has  applied  (?)  for  it  repeatedly,  he  can  not  get  it  from 
them.  Whenever  I  hear  anything  which  the  lord  of  kings, 
my  lord,  would  wish  to  hear  *  *  * 

[The  few  remaining  lines  are  too  badly  mutilated  for 
translation.] 

*  Apparently  some  term  of  reproach.     The  sense  is,  "  Shall  I  stoop  to 
send  a  secret  message  to  these  villains  ?  " 
'  An  Elamite  official  title. 


244      .ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


III.    A  LETTER  FROM  BEL-IBNI  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  lo;   H.  280) 

To  the  lord  of  kings,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Bel-ibni! 

May  Ashur,  Shamash,  and  Marduk  bestow  health 
of  mind,  health  of  body,  length  of  days,  long  years  of 
reign,  upon  the  lord  of  kings,  the  king  of  the  world, 
my  lord! 

When  I  left  the  Gulf  District,  I  sent  five  hundred  sol- 
diers, servants  of  my  lord,  the  king,  to  the  city  of  Sab- 
danu,  with  these  orders:  "  Establish  a  post  (?)  in  Sabdanu, 
and  make  raids  into  Elam;  slay  and  take  prisoners! " 
When  they  reached  the  city  of  Irgidu,  a  city  lying  two 
leagues  this  side  of  Susa,  they  slew  Ammaladin,  Prince  of 
lashi'an,  his  two  brothers,  three  of  his  uncles,  two  of  his 
nephews,  Dalan,  son  of  Adiadi'a,  and  two  hundred  free- 
born  citizens — they  had  a  long  journey  before  them — ^and 
made  one  hundred  and  fifty  prisoners.  The  authorities  of 
Lakhiru  and  the  people  of  Nugu,  when  they  saw  that  my 
troops  had  got  to  their  rear,  becoming  alarmed,  sent  a  mes- 
sage, and  entered  into  terms  with  Mushezib-Marduk,  my 
sister's  son,  a  servant  of  my  lord  the  king,  whom  I  had 
placed  in  command  of  the  post  (?),  saying,  "  We  will  be- 
come subjects  of  the  King  of  Assyria."  So  assembling  all 
their  force,  they  marched  with  Mushezib-Marduk  into 
Elam  *  *  *  1  They  bring  (?)  the  following  report  from 
Elam:  Ummanigash,  son  of  Amedirra,  has  revolted 
against  Ummakhaldash.  From  the  river  Khudkhud  as  far 
as  the  city  of  Kha'adknu  the  people  have  sided  with  him. 
Ummakhaldash  has  assembled  his  forces,  and  now  they 
are  encamped  opposite  each  other  on  the  banks  of  the 
river.  Iqisha-aplu,  whom  I  have  sent  to  the  palace, 
is  well  informed  about  them.  Let  him  be  questioned 
at  the  palace. 

'  The  text  is  here  too  badly  mutilated  for  translation. 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LETTERS  245 

IV.    A  LETTER  FROM  NABU-USHABSHI  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  528  ;   H.  269) 

Nabu-ushabshi,  the  writer  of  the  two  letters  here  translated,  was  an 
Assyrian  official  of  Erech  in  southern  Babylonia,  and  lived  in  the  reign 
of  Sardanapalus.  He  seems  to  have  suffered  severely  from  the  revolt  of 
Bel-iqisha  to  which  he  refers,  and  his  advice  in  regard  to  the  reduction  of 
Gambulu  was  doubtless  in  full  accord  with  his  personal  feelings. 

To  the  king  of  the  world,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Nabu- 
ushabshi! 

May  Erech  and  E-anna  bless  the  king  of  the  world,  my 
lord!  I  pray  daily  to  Ishtar  of  Erech  and  to  Nana  for  the 
life  of  the  king,  my  lord. 

The  king,  my  lord,  has  sent  me  (this  message) :  "  Put 
troops  on  the  march,  and  send  them  against  Gambulu." 
(Now)  the  gods  of  the  king,  my  lord,  know  well  that  since 
Bel-iqisha  revolted  from  my  lord  the  king,  and  went  to 
Elam,  destroyed  my  father's  house,  and  came  to  slay  my 
brother,  daily  1  *  *  *  With  regard  to  what  the  king,  my 
lord,  has  sent  (to  command),  I  will  go  and  carry  out  the 
behest  of  my  lord  the  king.  In  case  (however)  the  in- 
habitants of  Gambulu  will  not  become  submissive  by  these 
means,  (then)  if  it  be  agreeable  to  my  lord  the  king,  let  an 
envoy  of  my  lord  the  king  come;  let  us  assemble  all  Baby- 
lonia; and  let  us  go  with  him,  win  back  the  country,  and 
give  it  to  my  lord  the  king. 

I  send  (my  advice)  to  my  lord  the  king;  let  my  lord  the 
king  do  as  he  pleases.     Preserve  this  letter. 


V.    A  LETTER  FROM  NABU-USHABSHI  TO  THE  KING 
(K.  79 ;  H.  266) 

To  the  king  of  the  world,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Nabu- 
ushabshi! 

May  Erech  and  E-anna  be  gracious  to  the  king  of  the 
world,  my  lord!  I  pray  daily  to  Ishtar  of  Erech  and  to 
Nana  for  the  life  of  my  lord  the  king. 

'  For  the  next  five  lines  the  text  is  almost  entirely  obliterated,  but 
probably  contained  the  statement  that  the  writer  prays  daily  for  revenge 
upon  those  who  have  thus  injured  him. 


246       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Pir'i-Bel,  son  of  Bel-eter,  having  gone  forth  with  his 
father  to  Elam  some  ten  years  ago,  came  from  Elam  to 
Babylonia  with  his  father.  Having  come  (hither),  they 
practised  in  Erech  all  that  was  evil  toward  Assyria.  Having 
subsequently  retired  to  Elam,  his  father,  Bel-eter,  died  in 
Elam,  and  he  in  the  month  of  Marcheshvan,  having 
brought  letters  to  me  and  to  *  *  *  the  governor,  we  sent 
(?)  the  letters  which  he  brought  by  Daru-sharru  to  (?) 
*  *  *  *  If  he  tell  the  king,  my  lord,  "  I  am  come  from 
Elam,"  let  not  the  king,  my  lord,  believe  him.  From  the 
month  of  Marcheshvan,  when  we  sent  to  my  lord  the  king 
the  letters  he  brought,  until  the  present  time  he  has  not 
been  to  Elam.  Should  the  king,  my  lord,  desire  confirma- 
tion of  these  words,  Idu'a,  the  servant  of  Kudurru,  who 
brought?)  to  Erech  these  reports  about  him  (?)  *  *  *  ^ 
let  these  men  tell  my  lord  the  king  how  these  treasonable 
letters  were  written,  and  if  my  lord  the  king  does  not  un- 
derstand about  these  letters  which  we  sent  in  Marcheshvan 
to  my  lord  the  king  by  Daru-sharru,  let  my  lord  the  king 
question  Daru-sharru  the  satellite.  I  send  to  my  lord  in 
order  that  he  may  be  informed. 


VI.    MESSAGE  OF  THE  KING  TO  SIN-TABNI-UQUR 
(K.  824 ;  H.  290) 

Sin-tabni-usur,  to  whom  the  following  letter  is  addressed  by  King  Sar- 
danapalus,  was  the  son  of  Ningal-iddina,  and  was  governor  of  Ur,  in 
southern  Babylonia.  Ummanigash,  mentioned  as  one  of  the  calumniators 
of  Sin-tabni-ujur,  was  one  of  the  three  sons  of  Urtaku,  King  of  Elam, 
who  took  refuge  at  the  Assyrian  court  when  their  father  was  dethroned 
and  murdered  by  his  brother  Teumman. 

Message  of  the  king  to  Sin-tabni-ugur.  It  is  well  with 
me;  may  thy  heart  be  of  good  cheer! 

With  reference  to  thy  message  about  Sin-sharra-uqur, 
how  could  he  speak  evil  words  of  thee,  and  I  listen  to  them? 
Since  Shamash  perverted  his  understanding,*  and  Ummani- 

'  The  text  is  here  completely  broken  away.  The  translation  is  resumed 
at  line  10  of  the  reverse.  '  The  text  is  here  very  uncertain. 

•  The  meaning  is  that  he  must  be  out  of  his  senses  to  make  such 
accusations. 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LETTERS  247 

gash  slandered  thee  before  me,  they  have  sought  thy  death, 
but  Ashur,  my  god,  withholds  me  (from  that),  and  not 
willingly  could  I  have  put  to  death  my  servant  and  the 
support  of  my  father's  house.  No! — for  thou  wouldst  (be 
willing  to)  perish  along  with  thy  lord's  house — (never)  could 
I  consent  to  that.  He  and  Ummanigash  have  plotted  thy 
destruction,  but  because  I  know  thy  loyalty  I  have  con- 
ferred even  greater  favour  (than  before)  upon  thee;  is  it 
not  so?  These  two  years  thou  hast  not  brought  foe  and 
need  upon  thy  lord's  house.^  What  could  they  say  against 
a  servant  who  loves  his  lord's  house,  that  I  could  believe? 
And  with  regard  to  the  service  which  thou  and  thy  brother 
Assyrians  have  rendered,  about  which  thou  sendest  (word), 
what  ye  have  done  is  well;  the  guard  for  me  which  ye  have 
kept  2  *  *  *  and  this  *  *  *  which  is  most  honourable  in 
my  sight,  and  a  favour  which  I  shall  requite  to  thee  till  (the 
times  of  our)  children's  children. 


VII.    A   LETTER   FROM    SHA-ASHUR-DUBBU    TO    THE    KING 
(K.  469  ;   H.  138) 

The  city  of  Dur-Sharrukin,  or  "  Sargonsburg,"  mentioned  near  the  end 
of  the  letter,  and  for  which  the  timber  spoken  of  was  probably  required, 
was  founded,  after  a  long-cherished  plan,  by  the  great  king  whose  name 
it  commemorates,  and  completed  in  the  latter  years  of  his  reign.  On  the 
22d  of  Tishri  (September),  707,  in  the  eponymy  of  Sha-Ashur-dubbu,  the 
images  of  the  gods  were  carried  through  its  streets  in  solemn  procession, 
and  established  in  their  temples,  and  in  April  of  the  following  year  the 
king  formally  took  up  his  residence  in  his  new  capital.  One  year  later 
(70s),  he  fell  by  the  hand  of  an  assassin  (Tiele,  "  Bab.-Assyr.  Geschichte," 
p.  248).  The  site  of  Dur-Sharrukin,  occupied  by  the  modern  village  of 
Khorsabad,  was  explored  in  the  years  1843-1844  by  the  French  consul  at 
Mosul,  fimile  Botta,  who  discovered  the  palace  of  Sargon,  with  a  wealth 
of  sculptures  and  inscriptions,  which  were  conveyed  to  Paris,  and  now 
form  part  of  the  Louvre  collection. 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Sha-Ashur-dubbu! 
A  hearty  greeting  to  the  king,  my  lord!  Greeting  to  the 
fortresses,  to  the  country  of  the  king,  my  lord! 

'  Although  in  that  time  he  had  ample  opportunity  to  do  so. 
'  Text  mutilated. 


248       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

I  sent  two  of  my  officers,  accompanied  by  six  men  and 
provided  with  a  warrant,  after  some  deserters  who  were  in 
the  city  of  Penza.  Two  chiefs  of  battalion  went  along  with 
them.  The  soldiers  took  down  rations,  of  which  they  par- 
took (en  route).  The  brother  of  the  Shuprian,  having 
shared  their  meal  with  them,  they  set  out  and  travelled 
along  together.  The  Shuprian  had  laid  an  ambush  before- 
hand, (but)  the  two  officers,  with  the  six  soldiers,  got  out 
(of  it,  and)  rescued  both  the  chiefs  of  battalion.  I  sent 
word  to  them,  "  Establish  (there)  a  military  post."  I  shall 
make  an  investigation,  (and)  if  they  are  in  my  country  I 
shall  lay  hands  on  the  rascals.  I  went  and  brought  up 
troops  into  the  fortress.  Let  the  king,  my  lord,  send 
orders  that  the  Taziru  and  the  Itu  of  my  lord  the  king, 
who  have  appointed  their  deputies  here,  may  come  (them- 
selves) and  stand  guard  with  me,  until  they  get  this 
timber  away.  The  king,  my  lord,  shall  decide.  My  men 
are  doing  duty  in  Dur-Sharrukin,  (but)  the  cavalry  are 
here  with  me. 


VIII.    A  LETTER   FROM    NABU-SHUM-IDDINA   TO    THE   SON 
OF  THE  KING  (K.  629 ;   H.  69) 

Nabu-shum-iddina  ("  Nabu  has  given  a  name"),  who,  in  the  letter 
here  presented  describing  a  religious  ceremony  and  solemn  procession  in 
honour  of  the  god,  styles  himself  the  prefect  of  the  Temple  of  Nabu,  ap- 
pears to  have  lived  in  the  reign  of  Esarhaddon  ;  and  the  prince  to  whom 
the  letter  is  addressed  was  probably  Sardanapalus,  and  was  evidently  the 
heir  to  the  throne,  since  a  wish  is  expressed  for  the  long  duration  of  his 
future  reign.  A  letter  to  the  king  from  the  same  writer,  or  from  a  person 
of  the  same  name  (K.  1017  ;  Harper,  No.  66),  is  too  badly  mutilated  to 
yield  any  connected  sense,  but  mentions  (rev.  11.  i,  2)  the  crown-prince, 
and  the  name  of  Sardanapalus,  of  which  traces  are  preserved,  is  evi- 
dently to  be  restored  before  the  title. 

Fourteen  letters  (Nos.  60-73)  are  published  in  Harper's  work  under  the 
name  of  Nabu-shum-iddina.  Of  Nos.  72  (K.  1272)  and  73  (K.  5509)  merely 
the  opening  words  remain ;  and  the  context  of  Nos.  67  (K.  1050)  and  70 
(K.  1070)  is  rendered  unintelligible  by  the  mutilation  of  the  tablet.  No. 
66  has  just  been  referred  to,  and  all  the  rest  are  reports  of  the  arrival  of 
horses.  Whether  the  priest  of  Nabu  and  the  writer  about  horses  were 
identical  is  open  to  doubt.  The  formula  of  greeting  is  certainly  the  same 
in  the  letters  of  both  persons,  but  it  is  not  a  very  characteristic  one.    The 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LETTERS  249 

Invocation  to  Nabu  and  Marduk  is  common  to  many  writers ;  precisely 
the  same  formula  is  found,  for  example,  in  the  letter  of  Nabu-najir 
("  Nabu  protects  ")  to  the  king  (Harper,  No.  178  =  K.  4S2). 

To  the  prince,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Nabu-shum-iddina! 

A  hearty,  hearty  greeting  to  the  prince,  my  lord!  May 
Nabu  and  Marduk  bless  the  prince,  my  lord! 

On  the  third  day  of  the  month  of  lyyar  the  city  of  Calah 
will  consecrate  the  couch  of  Nabu,  (and)  the  god  will  enter 
the  bedchamber.  On  the  fourth  (will  take  place)  the  re- 
turn of  Nabu.  The  prince,  my  lord,  shall  decide.  I  am 
the  prefect  of  the  house  of  Nabu,  thy  god,  (so)  I  (of  course) 
shall  go. 

At  Calah  the  god  will  come  forth  from  the  palace  in- 
closure  (?),  (and)  from  the  palace  inclosure  (?)  will  go 
to  the  grove.  A  sacrifice  will  be  offered.  The  charioteer 
of  the  gods,  coming  from  the  stable  of  the  gods,  will  take 
the  god  forth,  bring  him  back,  and  convey  him  within. 
This  is  the  route  of  the  procession. 

Of  the  jar-bearers,  whoever  has  a  sacrifice  (to  offer)  will 
offer  it.  Whoever  offers  up  one  qa  ^  of  his  food,  may  enter 
the  house  of  Nabu.  May  they  '  perfectly  execute  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  gods,  to  the  life  and  health  of  the  prince,  my 
lord.  What  (commands)  has  the  prince,  my  lord,  to  send 
me?  May  Bel  and  Nabu,  who  granted  help  in  the  month 
of  Shebat,  guard  the  life  of  the  prince,  my  lord!  May  they 
make  thy  sovereignty  extend  to  the  end  of  time! 


IX.    A  LETTER  FROM   NABU-SHUM-IDDINA  TO  THE 
SECRETARY   OF   STATE   (K.  547 ;   H.  62) 

The  general  tone  of  the  following  letter,  and  the  reference  to  the  gods 
Bel  and  Nabu  contained  in  it,  would  seem  to  favour  the  identification  of 
the  writer  with  the  priest  of  Nabu  who,  in  the  preceding  letter  (K.  623), 
invokes  the  same  deities  in  behalf  of  the  prince. 

To  the  secretary  of  state,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Nabu- 
shum-iddina!     Greeting  to  my  lord! 

May  Nabu  and  Marduk,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  Ishtar  of 
Arbela,  bless  my  lord!     May  they  keep  thee  whole!    May 

'  A  measure.  '  Those  officiating  at  the  ceremony. 


250 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


thy  heart  ever  be  of  good  cheer!  May  Bel  and  Nabu 
establish  prosperity  in  the  homes  of  the  people  of  Nineveh, 
and  prosperity  with  thee  also! 


X.    A  LETTER  FROM  ISHDI-NABU  TO  THE  SON 
OF  THE  KING  (K.  589 ;  H.  187) 

Ishdi-Nabu  ("  Nabu  is  my  foundation  "),  an  Assyrian  official  who  prob- 
ably flourished  in  the  reign  of  Esarhaddon  (681-668  B.  c),  is  the  writer  of 
four  letters  published  in  Harper's  collection  (Nos.  186-189).  The  prince 
who  is  here  addressed  was  doubtless  Sardanapalus. 

To  the  prince,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Ishdi-Nabu!  A 
hearty  greeting  to  the  prince,  my  lord!  May  Bel,  Nabu, 
Belit,  the  divine  queen  of  Kidimuri,  and  Ishtar  of  Arbela 
grant  health  of  mind  and  body,  life,  and  happiness  to  the 
prince,  my  lord! 

I  convey  the  gracious  messages  of  Nabu  to  the  prince, 
my  lord.  Greeting  to  all  the  guard!  May  the  heart  of 
the  prince,  my  lord,  be  of  good  cheer! 


XI.    A  LETTER  FROM  NABU'A  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  551 ;  H.  142) 

The  importance  attributed  to  omens,  and  the  great  attention  paid  to 
their  interpretation  by  the  Assyro-Babylonians,  is  attested  by  the  very 
large  number  of  tablets  dealing  with  the  subject  found  in  the  ruined  tem- 
ples and  palaces  of  the  ancient  Mesopotamian  empires.  These  texts, 
which  would  seem  to  have  accumulated  from  a  very  remote  period,  con- 
tain explanations  of  omens  derived  from  phenomena  of  every  description, 
terrestrial  as  well  as  celestial,  and  were  consulted  as  the  standard  au- 
thorities whenever,  as  often  happened,  such  information  was  desired. 

The  astrologer  Nabu'a  doubtless  had  in  mind  a  passage  from  one  of 
these  tablets  when  he  wrote  the  letter  here  translated.  At  precisely  what 
period  this  votary  of  astral  science  lived  and  practised  his  art  it  is  impos- 
sible to  say  with  certainty  ;  but  it  was  in  all  probability  under  one  of  the 
Sargonide  kings. 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Nabu'a! 

May  Nabu  and  Marduk  bless  the  king,  my  lord! 

On  the  seventh  day  of  the  month  Kislev  a  fox  entered 
the  city,  and  fell  into  a  well  in  the  grove  of  the  god  Ashur. 
They  got  him  out,  and  killed  him. 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LETTERS  251 


XII.    A  LETTER   FROM   BALASI   AND   NABU-AKHE-ERBA  TO 
THE   KING  (K.  565  ;   H.  77) 

Balasi,  the  author  of  six  letters  published  in  Harper's  work  (Nos.  74- 
79),  all  relating  to  astrology,  divination,  and  kindred  matters,  and  also  of 
a  number  of  astrological  reports,  was  an  Assyrian  priestly  astrologer 
who  lived  in  the  reign  of  Esarhaddon  (681-668  B.  c).  He  was,  there- 
fore, a  contemporary  of  Arad-Ea,  Arad-Nana,  and  Nabu-shum-iddina, 
examples  of  whose  correspondence  are  given  in  Nos.  K,  629,  K.  1024, 
S.  1064,  K.  519. 

To  the  king,  our  lord,  thy  servants  Balasi  and  Nabu- 
akhe-erba!  Greeting  to  the  king,  our  lord!  May  Nabu 
and  Marduk  bless  the  king,  our  lord ! 

As  for  Ashur-mukin-pale'a,*  about  whom  the  king,  our 
lord,  has  sent  to  us,  may  Ashur,  Bel,  Nabii,  Sin,  Shamash, 
and  Ramman  bless  him! 

May  our  lord  the  king  behold  his  welfare! 

The  conditions  are  auspicious  for  the  journey.  The 
second  of  the  month  is  an  auspicious  day;  the  fourth,  ex- 
tremely auspicious. 


XIIL    A  LETTER   FROM  ARAD-EA  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  1024;   H.  28) 

Arad-Ea  ("  servant  of  Ea  ")  was  a  priest  and  astrologer  who  flourished 
in  the  reign  of  Esarhaddon  (681-668  B.  c). 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Arad-Ea!  Greeting 
to  my  lord  the  king!  May  Nabu,  Marduk,  Sin,  Ningal, 
(and)  Nusku  bless  the  king,  my  lord! 

Sin,  Ningal '^  *  *  *  shall  grant  life,  and  length  (of 
days)  to  the  king,  my  lord.  I  pray  day  and  night  for 
my  lord's  life. 

'  Son  of  King  Esarhaddon,  and  brother  of  Sardanapalus. 
'  The  text  is  obliterated,  but  the  names  of  other  gods  doubtless  fol- 
lowed here. 


252        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


XIV.    A  LETTER  FROM  ARAD-NANA  TO  THE  KING 
(S.  1064;   H.  392) 

According  to  the  statement  of  Herodotus  (i,  197),  the  Babylonians  did 
not  employ  physicians,  but  brought  their  sick  to  the  market-place  in  order 
to  receive  the  advice  of  such  persons  as  might  be  able  to  suggest  a  remedy 
derived  from  their  personal  experience  or  from  that  of  their  friends.  The 
statement  is  entirely  erroneous.  The  fact  that  physicians  existed  and 
were  held  in  high  esteem  both  in  Assyria  and  Babylonia  is  abundantly 
attested  by  the  cuneiform  inscriptions.  They  belonged  to  the  priestly 
class,  and  in  their  practice  combined  magic  with  more  rational  methods. 

Among  the  epistolary  tablets  are  a  few  letters  from  physicians,  and 
from  these  also  it  may  be  gathered  that  these  ancient  practitioners  did 
not  entirely  depend  upon  magic  arts,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  two  exam- 
ples here  presented.  The  writer,  in  both  cases,  is  Arad-Nana  ("servant 
of  Nana"),  who  flourished  in  the  reign  of  Esarhaddon  (681-668  B.  c),  and 
was  probably  court  physician  of  that  monarch.  Five  of  his  letters  are 
published  in  Harper's  work  (Nos.  108-111  and  392). 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Arad-Nana!  A  hearty 
greeting  to  my  lord  the  king!  May  the  deities  Adar  and 
Gula  grant  health  of  mind  and  body  to  my  lord  the  king! 

All  goes  well  in  regard  to  that  poor  fellow  whose  eyes 
are  diseased.  I  had  applied  a  dressing  covering  his  face. 
Yesterday,  toward  evening,  undoing  the  bandage  which 
held  it  (in  place),  I  removed  the  dressing.  There  was  pus 
upon  the  dressing  the  size  of  the  tip  of  the  little  finger. 
If  any  of  thy  gods  has  put  his  hand  to  the  matter,  that  (god) 
must  surely  have  given  express  commands.  All  is  well. 
Let  the  heart  of  my  lord  the  king  be  of  good  cheer!  Within 
seven  or  eight  days  he  will  be  well. 


XV.    A  LETTER  FROM  ARAD-NANA  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  519;  H.  108) 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant,  Arad-Nana!  Greet- 
ing most  heartily  to  my  lord  the  king!  May  Adar  and  Gula 
grant  health  of  mind  and  body  to  my  lord  the  king!  A 
hearty  greeting  to  the  son  of  the  king  *  *  *  1 

With  regard  to  the  patient  who  has  a  bleeding  from  his 
nose,  the  Rab-mugi ''  reports,  "  Yesterday,  toward  evening, 

'  Obverse  lines  9-14  are  here  omitted.  »  An  official  title. 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LETTERS 


253 


there  was  much  hemorrhage."  Those  dressings  are  not 
scientifically  applied.  They  are  placed  upon  the  alae  of 
the  nose,  oppress  the  breathing,  and  come  off  when  there 
is  hemorrhage.  Let  them  be  placed  within  the  nostrils, 
and  then  the  air  will  be  kept  away  and  the  hemorrhage  re- 
strained. If  it  is  agreeable  to  my  lord  the  king  I  will  go 
to-morrow  and  give  instructions;  (meantime)  let  me  hear 
how  he  does. 


XVL    A  LETTER  FROM   ISHTAR-DURI  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  504;   H.  157) 

All  circumstances  point  to  the  reign  of  Sargon  (722-705  B.  c.)  as  the 
period  in  which  Ishtar-duri  ("  Ishtar  is  my  wall")  flourished,  and,  as  an 
Ishtar-duri  was  eponym  in  the  year  714,  we  shall  probably  not  be  far 
wrong  if  we  conclude  that  the  writer  of  the  letter  and  the  eponym  were 
one  and  the  same  person. 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Ishtar-duri !  Greet- 
ing to  the  king,  my  lord! 

I  send  forthwith  to  my  lord  the  king,  in  company  with 
my  messenger,  the  physicians  Nabu-shum-iddina  and  Nabu- 
erba,  of  whom  I  spoke  to  the  king,  my  lord.  Let  them 
be  admitted  to  the  presence  of  the  king,  my  lord,  and 
let  the  king,  my  lord,  converse  with  them.  I  have  not 
disclosed  (to  them)  the  true  facts,  but  have  told  them 
nothing.  As  the  king,  my  lord,  commands,  (so)  has  it 
been  done. 

Shamash-bel-UQur  sends  word  from  Der:  "  We  have  no 
inscriptions  to  place  upon  the  temple  walls."  I  send,  there- 
fore, to  the  king,  my  lord,  (to  ask)  that  one  inscription  be 
written  out  and  sent  immediately,  (and  that)  the  rest  be 
speedily  written,  so  that  they  may  place  them  upon  the 
temple  walls. 

There  has  been  a  great  deal  of  rain,  (but)  the  harvest  is 
gathered.  May  the  heart  of  the  king,  my  lord,  be  of  good 
cheer! 


254       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


XVII.    A  LETTER   FROM  *    *    *  .  BEL-IQISHA  AND  BABILA 
TO  THE  KING  (K.  660 ;   H.  86) 

The  "receipt "of  wine  for  the  month  of  Tebet  (January-February), 
spoken  of  in  the  following  letter,  was  probably  the  produce  of  the  royal 
vineyards  for  the  preceding  autumn,  which  was  now  ready  for  storage, 
although  it  is  possible  that  reference  is  had  to  a  tax  or  tribute  of  wine 
delivered  in  this  month. 

To  the  king,  our  lord,  thy  servants  *  *  *  Bel-iqisha, 
and  Babila!  Greeting  to  our  lord  the  king!  May  Ashur 
*  *  *  Bel,  and  Nabu  grant  length  of  days  for  never-ending 
years  to  our  lord  the  king! 

The  king,  our  lord,  shall  decide.^  Since  the  receipt  for 
the  month  Tebet  is  bottled,''  and  there  are  no  places  of  shel- 
ter (for  it),  we  would  (wish  to)  put  it  into  the  royal  store- 
houses for  wine.  Let  our  lord  the  king  pass  an  order  that 
the  (proper  store-)houses  may  be  indicated  to  us,  and  we 
shall  be  relieved  of  embarrassment.'  The  wine  of  our  lord 
the  king  is  of  great  quantity;  where  shall  we  put  it? 


XVIII.    A  LETTER  FROM  TAB-gil^ESHARA  TO  THE   KING 
(K.  515  ;   H.  89) 

Tab-gil-Eshara,  who  was  governor  of  Ashur  under  Sargon  (722-705 
B.  c),  may  well  have  lived  on  into  the  reign  of  Sargon's  son  and  successor 
Sennacherib  (705-681  B.  c),  and  therefore  it  is  not  impossible  that  the 
ships  mentioned  in  the  letter  may  have  constituted  part  of  the  fleet  built 
by  the  latter  monarch  in  696-695.  There  is  no  record  of  the  possession 
by  the  Assyrians  of  a  permanent  navy,  and  these  vessels,  having  served 
the  purpose  for  which  they  were  constructed,  may  well  have  been  either 
broken  up  or  acquired  by  individuals  for  commercial  purposes. 

To  the  king,  my  lord,  thy  servant  Tab-gil-Eshara! 

Greeting  to  the  king,  my  lord! 

May  Ashur  and  Belit  bless  the  king,, my  lord! 

That  ship  of  mine  in  which  the  grand  vizier  conveyed 
money  down  (the  river),  is  now  stopping  at  Bab-bitqi,  and 
the  ship  of  the  governor  of  Arrapakhitis  is  carrying  on  a 
ferry  at  Opis.  My  lord  the  king  shall  decide.  We  trans- 
port in  her  straw,  fodder,  (and)  such  matters  (?). 

'  That  is,  whether  it  is  proper  that  our  intention  shall  be  carried  out. 
•  That  is,  in  leather  bottles.  '  Literally,  "  hold  up  our  heads." 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LETTERS  255 

Let  now  the  ship  of  the  governor  of  Arrapakhitis  come 
and  carry  on  a  ferry  at  Bab-bitqi,  and  let  mine  go  to  Opis 
so  that  we  may  transport  straw  and  fodder  in  her  (there). 
The  men  of  the  governor  of  Arrapakhitis  are  already  con- 
ducting a  ferry  at  Bab-bitqi. 


XIX.    A  LETTER  FROM  SARA'A  TO  THE   SECRETARY  OF 
THE  PALACE   (K.  1274 ;  H.  220) 

Letters  from  women  are  extremely  rare.  In  the  present  instance  the 
Lady  Sara'a  makes  an  appeal  in  behalf  of  some  slaves  who  have  besought 
her  intercession. 

To  my  lord,  the  secretary  of  the  palace,  thy  handmaid 
Sara'a!  May  Bel,  Belit  *  *  *,^  Belit  of  Babylon,  Nabu, 
Tashmet,  Ishtar  of  Nineveh,  and  Ishtar  of  Arbela  bless  my 
lord!  May  they  grant  my  lord  long  life  with  health  of 
mind  and  body! 

The  governor  of  Bit-Na'alani  has  sold  to  Marduk-erba 
the  slaves — seven  in  number — whom  he  had  from  my  lord. 
These  people  are  now  here,  (and)  have  come  to  me,  saying, 
"  Inform  the  secretary  of  the  palace,  before  we  are  conveyed 
to  the  house  of  Marduk-erba."  My  lord,  the  officer  who 
executed  the  contract  is  now  with  them. 


XX.    A  LETTER  FROM  BEL-UPAQ  TO  KUNA  HIS  FATHER 
(K.  1239 ;  H.  219) 

For  the  date  of  the  writer,  Bel-upaq  ("Bel  gives  heed"),  there  is  not 
sufficient  evidence. 

Letter  of  Bel-upaq  to  Kuna  his  father! 

Greeting  to  my  father! 

I  pray  daily  to  Nabu  and  Nana  for  my  father's  life,  and 
I  pay  heedful  reverence  to  Ezida  in  thy  behalf.  When  I 
consulted  the  god  of  the  temple  in  regard  to  thee,  he  fixed 
upon  the  fourth  of  the  month  as  the  propitious  occasion. 
Thy  workmaster  is  fully  instructed  in  regard  to  every  mat- 
ter so  far  as  his  (the  god's)  words  are  propitious. 

•  The  name  of  another  god  has  been  obliterated  here. 


CONTRACTS 


I.    SALES  AND   PURCHASES 

I.  A  SLAVE 
Contract  of  the  eighth  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar  II 

SHAMASH-UBALLIT  and  Ubartum,  children  of  Za- 
kir,  the  son  of  Pashi-ummani,  of  their  free-will  have 
delivered  Nanakirat  and  her  unweaned  son,  their 
slave,  for  nineteen  shekels  of  money,  for  the  price  agreed, 
unto  Ka^ir  and  Nadin-Marduk,  sons  of  Iqisha-aplu,  son  of 
Nur-Sin.  Shamash-uballit  and  Ubartum  guarantee  against 
insubordination,  the  claim  of  the  royal  service,  and  eman- 
cipation. Witnesses:  Na'id-Marduk,  son  of  Nabu-na^ir, 
son  of  Dabibi;  Bel-shum-ishkun,  son  of  Marduk-zir-epish, 
son  of  Irani;  Nabu-ushallim,  son  of  Bel-akhi-iddin,  son  of 
Bel-apal-U9ur.  In  the  dwelling  of  Damqa,  their  mother. 
And  the  scribe,  Nur-Ea,  son  of  Ina-Isaggil-ziri,  son  of  Nur- 
Sin.  Babylon,  twenty-first  of  Kisilimu,  eighth  year  of 
Nebuchadnezzar,  King  of  Babylon. 

[This  tablet  afifords  a  good  example  of  the  sale  of  a 
slave.  In  this  case  the  persons  who  sell  guarantee  that  the 
slave  will  neither  become  insubordinate,  nor  prove  to  be 
subject  to  any  governmental  claims,  nor  prove  to  have  been 
emancipated  by  adoption.  The  word  rendered  "  emanci- 
pation "  means  literally  "adoption,"  but  adoption  by  a 
freeman  was  an  early  form  of  emancipation. 

This  sale  is  from  the  reign  of  the  Nebuchadnezzar  of 
Biblical  fame,  dating  from  597  b.  c.  The  same  kind  of  con- 
tracts, as  the  next  one  quoted  will  show,  were  made  seven- 
teen hundred  years  earlier.] 

256 


SALES   AND  PURCHASES  257 


2.  A  SLAVE 
Contract  from  the  reign  of  Rim-Sin,  before  2300  B.  c. 

^ini-Ishtar  has  bought  a  slave,  Ea-tappi  by  name,  from 
Ilu-elatti,  and  Akhia,  his  son,  and  has  paid  ten  shekels  of 
silver,  the  price  agreed.  Ilu-elatti,  and  Akhia,  his  son,  will 
not  set  up  a  future  claim  on  the  slave.  In  the  presence  of 
Ilu-iqisha,  son  of  Likua;  in  the  presence  of  Ilu-iqisha,  son 
of  Immeru;  in  the  presence  of  Likulubishtum,  son  of  Appa, 
the  scribe,  who  sealed  it  with  the  seal  of  the  witnesses. 
The  tenth  of  Kisilimu,  the  year  when  Rim-Sin,  the  king, 
overcame  the  hostile  enemies. 

[This  transaction  is  like  the  preceding,  except  that 
the  sellers  simply  guarantee  to  make  no  further  claim  upon 
the  slave.  It  dates  from  about  2300  b.  c,  and  is  interest- 
ing as  an  index  of  the  legal  development  of  that  far-off 
time.] 

3.  WHEAT 
Contract  from  the  thirty-fifth  year  of  Darius,  487  B.  c. 

Six  talents  of  wheat  from  Shamash-malku,  son  of 
Nabu-napshat-su-ziz,  to  Shamash-iddin,  son  of  Rimut.  In 
the  month  Siman,  wheat,  six  talents  in  full,  he  will  deliver 
in  Shibtu,  at  the  house  of  Shamash-iddin.  Witnesses: 
Shamash-iddin,  son  of  Nabu-ugur-napishti;  Abu-nu-emuq, 
son  of  Sin-akhi-iddin;  Sharru-Bel,  son  of  Sin-iddin;  Aban- 
nimiqu-rukus,  son  of  Malula.  Scribe,  Aradya,  son  of 
Epish-zir.  Shibtu,  eleventh  of  Kislimu,  thirty-fifth  year  of 
Darius,  king  of  countries. 

[This  tablet  is  a  good  illustration  of  the  simple  transac- 
tions in  food-stuffs,  of  which  we  have  many,  and  of  which 
one  or  two  additional  examples  are  given  below.  The 
farmers  usually  contracted  as  in  this  document  the  sale  of 
their  produce  far  in  advance  of  the  harvest.  In  this  in- 
stance the  sale  was  made  six  months  before  the  grain  would 
be  ripe  and  could  be  delivered.] 
17 


2S8        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

4.  DATES 
Contract  from  the  thirty-second  year  of  Darius,  490  B.  c. 

One  talent  one  qa  of  dates  from  the  woman  Nukaibu, 
daughter  of  Tabnisha,  and  the  woman  Khamaza,  daughter 
of  *  *  *  to  the  woman  Aqubatum,  daughter  of  Aradya. 
In  the  month  Siman  they  will  deliver  one  talent  one  qa 
of  dates.  Scribe,  Shamash-zir-epish,  son  of  Shamash- 
malku.  Shibtu,  Adar  the  sixth,  thirty-second  year  of 
Darius,  King  of  Babylon  and  countries. 

[Shibtu,  the  place  of  this  transaction,  was  a  suburb  of 
Babylon.  In  addition  to  the  points  illustrated  by  the  pre- 
ceding, this  shows  how  women,  especially  of  the  lower 
rank,  carried  on  business  for  themselves.  The  father  of 
Aqubatum,  as  his  name,  Aradya  (my  slave)  shows,  had  been 

a  slave.] 

5.  REAL  ESTATE 

Contract  from  the  early  Babylonian  period,  before  2000  B.  c. 

Q!ini-Ishtar,  the  son  of  Ilu-eribu,  and  Apil-Ili,  his  broth- 
er, have  bought  one  third  Shar  of  land  with  a  house  con- 
structed, next  the  house  of  ^ini-Ishtar,  and  next  the  house 
of  Minani;  one  third  Shar  of  arable  land  next  the  house  of 
Qini-Ishtar,  which  fronts  on  the  street;  the  property  of 
Minani,  the  son  of  Migrat-Sin,  from  Minani,  the  son  of 
Migrat-Sin.  They  have  paid  four  and  a  half  shekels  of 
silver,  the  price  agreed.  Never  shall  further  claim  be 
made,  on  account  of  the  house  of  Minani.  By  their  king 
they  swore.  (The  iiames  of  fourteen  witnesses  and  a  scribe 
then  follow.)  Month  Tebet,  year  of  the  great  wall  of  Karra- 
Shamash. 

[This  is  a  transaction  from  the  early  days  of  Babylonian 
history.  It  exhibits  a  form  of  transfer  and  title  which  has 
a  flavour  of  modern  business  method  about  it.] 

6.  A  STANDING  CROP 
Contract  from  the  seventh  year  of  Cyrus,  532  B.  c. 

From  a  cultivated  field  which  is  situated  on  the  alley  of 
Li'u-Bel,  Itti-Marduk-balatu,  the  son  of  Nabu-akhi-iddin, 


RENTALS 


259 


the  son  of  Egibi,  has  made  a  purchase  from  Tashmitum- 
damqat,  daughter  of  Shuzubu,  son  of  Shigua,  and  Nadin- 
aplu,  the  son  of  Rimut,  son  of  Epish-Ilu.  Itti-Marduk-balatu 
has  counted  the  money,  the  price  of  the  crop  of  that  field 
for  the  seventh  year  of  Cyrus,  King  of  Babylon,  king  of 
countries,  into  the  hands  of  Tashmitum-damqat  and  Nadin- 
aplu.  (The  names  of  two  witnesess  and  a  scribe  then  fol- 
low, and  the  tablet  is  dated  at)  Babylon,  Ululu  thirteenth, 
the  seventh  year  of  Cyrus. 

[This  contract  belongs  to  a  class  intermediate  between 
rental  and  the  sale  of  land.  Instead  of  either,  the  standing 
crop  is  sold.] 

II.   RENTALS 

1.    Old  Babylonian  contract,  earlier  than  2000  B.  c. 

Akhibte  has  taken  the  house  of  Mashqu  from  Mashqu, 
the  owner,  on  a  lease  for  one  year.  He  will  pay  one  shekel 
of  silver,  the  rent  of  one  year.  On  the  fifth  of  Tammuz 
he  takes  possession.  (Then  follow  the  names  of  four  wit- 
nesses. It  is  dated)  the  fifth  of  Tammuz,  the  year  of  the 
wall  of  Kar-Shamash. 

[This  is  the  simplest  form  of  rental,  and  comes  from  the 
early  Babylonian  times.  Sometimes  the  transaction  was 
not  so  simple,  as  the  next  tablet  will  show.] 

2.   Contract  from  the  thirty-fifth  year  of  Darius,  487  B.  C. 

In  addition  to  the  rent  of  the  house  of  Shamash-iddin, 
son  of  Rimut,  for  this  year,  fifteen  shekels  of  money  in 
cash  (shall  go)  to  Iskhuya,  son  of  Shaqa-Bel,  son  of  the 
priest  of  Agish.  Because  of  the  payment  he  shall  repair 
the  weakness  (of  the  house),  he  shall  close  up  the  crack 
of  the  wall.  He  shall  pay  a  part  of  the  money  at  the  be- 
ginning, a  part  of  the  money  at  the  completion.  He  shall 
pay  it  on  the  day  of  Bel,  the  day  of  wailing  and  weep- 
ing. In  case  the  house  is  unfinished  by  Iskhuya  after  the 
first  day  of  Tebet,  Shamash-iddin  shall  receive  four  shekels 
of  money  in  cash  into  his  possession  at  the  hands  of  Isk- 


26o        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

huya.  (The  names  of  three  witnesses  and  a  scribe  then 
follow.  The  tablet  is  dated)  at  Shibtu,  the  twenty-first  of 
Kislimu,  the  thirty-fifth  year  of  Darius. 

[This  contract  is  most  interesting.  Iskhuya,  apparently 
a  tenant  of  Shamash-iddin,  undertakes  to  repair  the  house 
in  which  he  is  living.  In  addition  to  the  rent  for  the  year 
he  is  to  receive  fifteen  shekels  in  money,  in  two  payments, 
at  the  beginning  and  the  completion  of  the  work.  The 
last  payment  is  to  be  made  on  the  day  of  Bel,  which  seems 
to  be  identical  with  the  first  of  Tebet,  a  week  later  than  the 
contract  was  made.  In  case  the  repairs  were  not  then 
completed,  Iskhuya  was  to  forfeit  four  shekels.  Such 
business  methods  are  not,  therefore,  altogether  modern. 

The  next  tablet  reveals  a  still  more  intricate  transac- 
tion.] 

3.  Contract  from  the  thirty-sixth  year  of  Artaxerxes,  428  b.  c. 

Baga'miri,  son  of  Mitradatu,  spoke  of  his  own  free-will 
to  Belshum-iddin,  son  of  Murashu,  saying:  "  I  will  lease  my 
cultivated  field  and  uncultivated  land,  and  the  cultivated 
field  and  uncultivated  land  of  Rushundati,  my  father's  de- 
ceased brother,  which  is  situated  on  the  bank  of  the  canal 
of  Sin,  and  the  bank  of  the  canal  Shilikhti,  and  the  dwell- 
ing houses  in  the  town  of  Galiya,  on  the  north,  adjoining 
the  field  of  Nabu-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Ninib-iddin,  and  ad- 
joining the  field  of  Banani-erish,  a  citizen  of  Nippur;  on 
the  south,  adjoining  the  field  of  Minu-Bel-dana,  son  of 
Balatu;  on  the  east,  the  bank  of  the  canal  of  Sin;  on  the 
west,  the  bank  of  the  canal  of  Shilikhti,  and  adjoining  the 
field  of  Rushundati,  the  overseer  (?)  of  Artaremu — all  to 
use  and  to  plant  for  sixty  years.  The  rent  of  the  culti- 
vated field  will  be  twenty  talents  of  dates;  and  the  uncul- 
tivated field  (I  will  lease)  for  planting."  Afterward  Bel- 
shum-iddin, son  of  Murashu,  accepted  his  oflFer  with  refer- 
ence to  the  cultivated  field  and  the  uncultivated  field,  his 
part  and  the  part  of  Rushundati,  his  uncle,  deceased;  he 
shall  hold  for  sixty  years  the  cultivated  portion  of  it  for 
a  rental  of  twenty  talents  of  dates  per  year,  and  the  un- 


CONTRACTS  CONCERNING  LABOUR  261 

cultivated  portion  for  planting.  Each  year  in  the  month 
Tishri,  Bel-shum-iddin  unto  Baga'miri  will  give  twenty 
talents  of  dates  for  the  use  of  that  field.  The  whole  rent 
of  his  field  for  sixty  years  Baga'miri,  son  of  Mitradatu,  has 
received  from  the  hands  of  Bel-shum-iddin,  son  of  Murashu. 
If,  in  the  future,  before  sixty  years  are  completed,  Baga'- 
miri shall  take  that  field  from  Bel-shum-iddin,  Baga'miri 
shall  pay  one  talent  of  silver  to  Bel-shum-iddin  for  the  work 
which  he  shall  have  done  on  it  and  the  orchard  which  he 
shall  have  planted.  In  case  any  claim  should  arise  against 
that  field,  Baga'miri  shall  settle  it  and  pay  instead  of  Bel- 
shum-iddin.  From  the  month  Nisan,  of  the  thirty-sev- 
enth year  of  Artaxerxes,  the  king,  that  field,  for  use  and 
for  planting,  shall  be  in  the  possession  of  Bel-shum-iddin, 
son  of  Murashu,  for  sixty  years.  (The  names  of  thirty  wit- 
nesses and  a  scribe  follow,  eleven  of  whom  left  the  im- 
pressions of  their  seals  on  the  edges  of  the  tablet.  L.  34 
states  that)  the  print  of  the  thumb-nail  of  Baga'miri  was 
placed  on  the  tablet  instead  of  his  seal.  (L.  37  contains  the 
information  that)  the  tablet  was  written  in  the  presence 
of  Ekur-belit,  daughter  of  Bel-balatu-ittannu,  mother  of 
Baga'miri.  (The  date  is)  Nippur,  Tishri  second,  thirty- 
sixth  year  of  Artaxerxes. 

[This  complicated  contract  is  of  unusual  interest,  since 
the  lease  is  for  so  long  a  period;  the  rent  is  paid  in  ad- 
vance, and  the  lessee  is  in  the  same  instrument  guaranteed 
against  all  future  contingencies.] 


III.  CONTRACTS  CONCERNING  LABOUR 

I.    Contract  from  the  reign  of  Shamshu-iluna,  about  2200  B.  c. 

Mar-Sippar  has  hired  for  one  year  Marduk-na^ir,  son 
of  Alabbana,  from  Munapirtu,  his  mother.  He  will  pay  as 
wages  for  one  year  two  and  a  half  shekels  of  silver.  She 
has  received  one  half  shekel  of  silver,  one  she,*  out  of  a 
year's  wages. 

'  The  she  was  jhs  °i  a  shekel. 


262        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

[This  is  a  contract  from  the  reign  of  Shamshu-iluna,  of 
the  first  Babylonian  dynasty,  about  2200  b.  c.  It  is  one 
of  many  of  like  character.] 

2.   Contract  from  the  thirty-fourth  year  of  Darius,  488  B.  c. 

One  coat  of  mail,  insignum  of  power  which  will  pro- 
tect, is  to  be  made  by  the  woman  Mupagalgagitum,  daugh- 
ter of  Qarikhiya,  for  Shamash-iddin,  son  of  Rimut.  She 
will  deliver  in  the  month  Shebat  one  coat  of  mail,  which 
is  to  be  made  and  which  will  protect. 

[This  tablet  is  dated  in  the  thirty-fourth  year  of 
Darius  I  (488  b.  c),  and  was  regarded  as  an  important 
transaction,  since  it  is  signed  by  four  witnesses  and  a 
scribe.] 

3.  Contract  from  the  thirty-fifth  year  of  Artaxerxes,  429  B.  c. 

Bel-akha-iddin  and  Bel-shunu,  sons  of  Bel  *  *  *  and 
Khatin,  son  of  Bazuzu,  spoke  unto  Bel-shum-iddin,  son 
of  Murashu,  saying:  "  As  to  the  ring  in  which  an  emerald 
has  been  set  in  gold,  we  guarantee  that  for  twenty  years 
the  emerald  will  not  fall  from  the  gold  ring.  If  the  em- 
erald falls  from  the  gold  ring  before  the  expiration  of 
twenty  years,  Bel-akha-iddin,  Bel-shunu  (and)  Khatin 
will  pay  to  Bel-shum-iddin  ten  manas  of  silver."  (The 
names  of  seven  witnesses  and  a  scribe  are  appended. 
The  date  is)  Nippur,  Elul  eighth,  the  thirty-fifth  year  of 
Artaxerxes. 

[The  transaction  needs  no  comment.  The  wealthy  rep- 
resentative of  the  house  of  Murashu  obtained  from  the  firm 
of  jewellers  which  sold  him  the  ring  a  guarantee  that  the 
setting  would  last  for  twenty  years;  if  it  does  not,  they  are 
to  forfeit  ten  manas. 

The  tablet  illustrates  the  following  topic  equally  well, 
since  the  three  men,  Bel-akha-iddin,  Bel-ishuna,  and  Kha- 
tin, are  clearly  copartners.] 


COPARTNERSHIPS  263 

IV.  COPARTNERSHIPS 

I.   Old  Babylonian  contract,  earlier  than  2000  B.  c. 

SiN-KALAMA-iDi,  son  of  Ulamasha,  and  Apil-ilu-shu, 
son  of  Khayamdidu,  have  borrowed  from  Arad-Sin  six- 
teen shekels  of  money  for  the  garnering  of  the  harvest. 
On  the  festival  of  Ab  they  will  pay  the  wheat.  [Names  of 
three  witnesses  and  a  scribe  follow,  and  the  tablet  is  dated 
in  the  year  of  a  certain  flood.  It  is  not  stated  in  the  reign 
of  what  king  it  was  written,  but  it  clearly  is  an  old  Baby- 
lonian document,  written  more  than  2000  b.  c. 

The  two  farmers  who  borrow  the  money  on  their  crop 
are  partners.] 

2.  Contract  of  the  thirty-sixth  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar  II,  568  B.  c. 

Two  manas  of  money  belonging  to  Nabu-akhi-iddin, 
son  of  Shula,  son  of  Egibi,  and  one  half  mana  seven  shekels 
of  money  belonging  to  Bel-shunu,  son  of  Bel-akhi-iddin, 
son  of  Sin-emuq,  they  have  put  into  a  copartnership  with 
one  another.  Whatever  remains  to  Bel-shunu  in  town  or 
country  over  and  above,  becomes  their  common  property. 
Whatever  Bel-shunu  spends  for  expenses  in  excess  of  four 
shekels  of  money  shall  be  considered  extravagant.  (The 
contract  is  witnessed  by  three  men  and  a  scribe,  and  is 
dated  at)  Babylon,  first  of  Ab,  in  the  thirty-sixth  year  of 
Nebuchadnezzar. 

[Nabu-akhi-iddin  was  a  capitalist — a  member  of  the 
great  Egibi  family.  He  contributed  four  manas  of  capital 
to  this  enterprise,  while  Bel-shunu,  who  was  to  carry  on 
the  business,  contributed  one  half  mana  and  seven  shekels, 
whatever  property  he  might  have,  and  his  time.  His  ex- 
penses in  the  conduct  of  the  business  up  to  four  shekels 
may  be  paid  from  the  common  funds.] 

3.  Contract  from  the  fortieth  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar  II,  564  B.  c. 

Memorandum  of  the  shares  of  Iddin-Marduk  and 
Nabu-ukin,  from  the  month  Tebet,  of  the  fortieth  year 


264       ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

of  Nebuchadnezzar,  King  of  Babylon,  unto  the  month 
Markheswan,  of  the  forty-second  year.  One  third  mana  of 
money  Iddin-Marduk  drew  on  his  accoiint  in  the  month 
Tebet,  of  the  forty-first  year.  One  third- mana  of  money 
Nabu-ukin  drew  on  his  account  in  the  month  Tebet,  of  the 
forty-first  year.  Fifteen  shekels  of  Nabu-ukin's  money, 
coined  in  shekel  pieces,  from  *  *  *  was  gfiven  to  Iddin- 
Marduk  for  the  house  of  Limniya  on  the  fifteenth  of  Ulul, 
of  the  forty-second  year;  a  fourth  shekel  of  coined  money, 
which  was  for  a  nutu-skin,  given  into  the  same  hands. 
One  half  shekel  of  money  was  given  for  palipi  naskhapu; 
one  third  of  a  shekel  of  money  was  given  into  the  same 
hands  for  beef;  two  giri  of  money  was  given  for  meat;  one 
shekel  of  money  was  given  for  Li^i-nuri;  two  shekels  of 
money,  which  was  for  Karia,  was  given  into  the  same 
hands.  City  of  *  *  *  Markheswan  *  *  *  One  mana  fifty 
shekels  are  counted  into  the  possession  of  Lishiru  and 
Bunini-epish. 

[From  this  document  we  learn  that  Iddin-Marduk  and 
Nabu-ukin  formed  a  copartnership  in  the  month  Tebet, 
of  Nebuchadnezzar's  fortieth  year.  A  year  from  that  date 
each  of  the  partners  drew  out  twenty  shekels.  In  the 
month  Ulul  of  the  next  year  a  number  of  small  amounts 
were  delivered  to  Iddin-Marduk  for  various  specific  pur- 
poses, and  a  larger  amount,  perhaps  in  payment  of  an  ob- 
ligation of  the  firm,  was  paid  to  two  other  men.J 

4.    Contract  from  the  reign  of  Xerxes,  4S4-464  B.  c 

*  *  *  Month  Markheswan  *  *  *  son  of  Bel-etiru,  the 
shepherd  *  *  *  Ibni-zir-ilani,  in  the  month  *  *  *  and 
the  herdmen  *  *  *  spoke,  thus  he  said  to  them  *  *  * 
"  I  separate  my  life  from  the  life  of  my  brother  and  from 
the  life  of  Lubuir,  my  partner.  Six  strong  oxen  *  *  *  " 
*  *  *  from  the  *  *  *  day,  Bara  *  *  *  and  Usu  *  *  * 
unto  my  life  *  *  *  Bel-shunu  *  *  *  Xerxes,  King  of 
Babylon  and  Batil  *  *  *  he  will  write  and  give  me. 

[This  much-mutilated  contract  is  dated  in  the  reign  of 
Xerxes,  on  the  twenty-first  of  Adar;  the  year  is  broken 


LOANS  AND  MORTGAGES  265 

away.  Although  it  is  so  broken,  it  shows  that  two  broth- 
ers had  been  in  partnership  with  a  third  person  as  a  com- 
pany of  shepherds,  and  that  one  of  the  brothers  was  in 
the  act  of  withdrawal  from  the  firm  to  enter  into  partner- 
ship with  another  man.] 


V.    LOANS   AND   MORTGAGES 

1.  Contract  of  the  fourteenth  year  of  Nabopolassar,  611  B.  c. 

^  One  mana  of  money,  a  sum  belonging  to  Iqisha-Mar- 
duk,  son  of  Kalab-Sin,  (is  loaned)  unto  Nabu-etir,  son  of 
*  *  *  son  of  *  *  *  Yearly  the  amount  of  the  mana 
shall  increase  its  sum  by  seven  shekels  of  money.  His 
field  near  the  gate  of  Bel  is  Iqisha-Marduk's  pledge. 

(This  document  bears  the  name  of  four  witnesses,  and  is 
dated)  at  Babylon,  Tammuz  twenty-seventh,  in  the  four- 
teenth year  of  Nabopolassar,  (the  father  of  Nebuchadnez- 
zar). 

[This  is  a  mortgage  on  real  estate  in  security  for  a  loan. 
The  interest  was  at  the  rate  of  eleven  and  one  third  per 
cent.] 

2.  Contract  of  the  sixth  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar  II,  598  B.  c. 

One  mana  of  money,  a  sum  belonging  to  Dan-Marduk, 
son  of  Apia,  son  of  the  Dagger-wearer,  (is  loaned)  unto  Ku- 
durru,  son  of  Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Egibi.  Yearly  the  amount 
of  the  mana  shall  increase  its  sum  by  eight  shekels  of 
money.  Whatever  he  has  in  city  or  country,  as  much  as 
it  may  be,  is  pledged  to  Dan-Marduk. 

(The  date  is)  Babylon,  Adar  fourth,  in  Nebuchadnez- 
zar's sixth  year. 

[The  rate  of  interest  in  this  case  was  thirteen  and  one 
third  per  cent.] 

3.    Contract  of  the  fifth  year  of  Nabonidus,  550  B.  c. 

One  and  a  half  manas  of  money  belonging  to  Iddin- 
Marduk,  son  of  Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Nur-Sin,  (is  loaned)  unto 


266       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Ben-Hadad-natan,  son  of  Addiya  and  Bunanit,  his  wife. 
Monthly  the  amount  of  a  mana  shall  increase  its  sum  by  a 
shekel  of  money.  From  the  first  of  the  month  Siman, 
of  the  fifth  year  of  Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon,  they  shall 
pay  the  sum  on  the  money.  The  call  shall  be  made  for 
the  interest  money  at  the  house  which  belongs  to  Iba. 
Monthly  shall  the  sum  be  paid. 

[This  loan  was  made  Aru  third,  in  the  fifth  year  of 
Nabonidus.  No  security  was  given  the  creditor,  but  he 
received  an  interest  of  twenty  per  cent.] 


VI.    BANKRUPTCY 

I.    Contract  of  the  second  year  of  Evil-Merodach,  560  B.  c. 

Two  thirds  of  a  mana  of  money,  a  loan  from  Bel-zir- 
epish,  son  of  Shapik-zir,  son  of  the  smith,  to  Nabu-apla- 
iddin,  son  of  Balatu,  son  of  the  *  *  *^  a  loan  upon  the  Gin 
(of  land)  which  was  delivered  unto  the  creditor,  and  (on) 
the  house  of  Nabu-apla-iddin,  (which)  Nergal-sharra-ugur, 
son  of  Bel-shum-ishkun,  has  bought  for  money.  One  third 
mana  of  money  for  the  payment  wherewith  the  creditor  is 
to  be  paid  Marduk-apla-iddin,  son  of  Bel-zir-epish,  son  of 
the  smith,  has  received  as  agent  for  Nergal-sharra-u^ur 
from  Nabu-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Shula,  son  of  Egibi.  The 
receipt  for  two  thirds  manas  (which)  Bel-zir-epish  (loaned) 
to  Nabu-apla-iddin,  Marduk-apla-uqur,  his  son  gave  to 
Nergal-sharra-uqur.  Until  Marduk-apla-ugur  unto  the 
scribes  of  the  king  shall  speak  and  shall  receive  the  seal 
of  possession,  Nabu-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Nabu-shum-iddin, 
son  of  Bel-shuktanu,  shall  hold  the  certificate  of  the  receipt 
of  the  two  thirds  manas  of  money. 

(This  instrument  is  dated)  Babylon,  Nisan  twenty- 
sixth,  of  the  second  year  of  Evil-Merodach. 

[It  exhibits  how  in  a  case  of  bankruptcy  the  interests  of 
the  creditor  were  conserved  in  the  sale  of  the  mortgaged 
property.     It  also  proves  that  in  Babylonian  law  the  whole 


BANKRUPTCY  267 

value  of  the  estate  was  not  in  such  cases  sacrificed  to  the 
creditor,  but  that  the  debtor  could  obtain  the  equity  in  his 
property  which  actually  belonged  to  him.] 

2.   Contract  from  Neriglissar's  accession  year,  559  b.  c. 

Fifty-two  and  a  half  shekels  of  money,  belonging  to 
Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Gilua,  son  of  Sin-shadunu  (are  received) 
from  Nabu-apla-iddin,  son  of  Balatu,  son  of  the  *  *  *, 
upon  the  price  of  the  house  of  Nabu-apla-iddin,  which  he 
purchased  for  cash  for  the  palace.  The  balance  remaining, 
twenty-six  and  a  quarter  shekels  of  money,  Iqisha-apla, 
son  of  Gilua,  son  of  Sin-shadunu,  has  received  from  the 
hand  of  Nabu-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Shula,  son  of  Egibi,  and 
has  given  the  receipt  for  fifty-two  and  a  half  shekels  from 
Nabu-apla-iddin  unto  Nabu-akhi-iddin. 

[This  document  is  dated  the  ninth  day  of  the  intercalary 
month  of  Neriglissar's  accession  year.  The  place  is  Baby- 
lon. The  scribe  who  wrote  it,  Iqisha-apli's  son.  A  mort- 
gage on  the  house  of  Nabu-apla-iddin,  which  a  tablet  dated 
in  the  reign  of  Evil-Merodach  shows  was  then  held  by  two 
persons,  had  been  transferred  to  the  hands  of  Iqisha-apla. 
It  appears  from  the  present  transaction  that  half  of  the 
mortgage  had  been  paid  oflf.  Apparently  the  remaining 
half  could  not  be  paid,  and  the  house  was  sold.  The  pur- 
chaser was  in  this  case  the  king,  Neriglissar,  who  had  but 
recently  ascended  the  throne.  Like  many  other  regal 
purchasers  he  was  short  of  funds,  and  was  compelled  to 
borrow  the  money  from  the  head  of  the  Egibi  firm.  The 
king  appears  to  have  taken  the  house  for  the  sum  of  twenty- 
six  and  a  quarter  shekels,  the  half  of  the  loan  which  re- 
mained unpaid,  and  to  have  compelled  the  holder  of  the 
mortgage  to  surrender  to  the  banker  all  further  claim  to 
the  property.  Might  made  right  in  this  case,  and  the 
equity  was  lost.*] 

■  Cf.  Evetts,  Ev.  M.  16,  and  Peiser,  "  Rechtsleben,"  iii,  24.  It  should 
be  said  in  justice  to  Neriglissar  that  there  is  some  obscurity  attaching  to 
the  case.  In  the  first  contract,  which  secured  the  two  original  creditors, 
there  was  a  stipulation  that  in  case  the  mortgage  was  not  entered  and 


268       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

VII.    POWER  OF  ATTORNEY 

1.  Contract  of  the  first  year  of  Evil-Merodach,  561  B.  c. 

Itti-Nabu-balatu,  the  son  of  Shula,  the  son  of  Egibi, 
acts  in  place  of  Bel-kishir,  his  brother,  (who)  has  not  gone 
into  business.  With  reference  to  their  securities  and  what- 
ever property  belonged  to  Shula,  their  father,  (which)  they 
have  shared  with  one  another,  in  so  far  as  it  belongs  to 
Bel-kishir,  it  shall  go  into  the  business,  and  whatever  profit 
arises  from  traffic  (literally,  the  street),  however  much  he 
may  gain  in  this  way,  he  shall  bring  all  unto  and  to  Bel- 
kishir  deliver.    His  hand  for  this  he  raised. 

(This  document  is  attested  in  the  usual  manner,  and 
dated)  Markheswan  thirteenth,  of  Evil-Merodach's  first 
year.  [It  clearly  empowers  one  brother  to  act  in  business 
for  another.] 

2.  Contract  of  the  twelfth  year  of  Artaxerxes,  452  B.  c. 

[Eighteen  shekels]  of  money,  rent  belonging  to  [Arad- 
Anu-ilu-la-ilu-iprus  and  Shapi,]  [sons  of]  Arad-belanu,  of 
*  *  *  From  the  month  Tebet,  of  the  twelfth  year  of 
Artaxerxes,  Bel-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Bel-abu-akhi,  shall  re- 
ceive eighteen  shekels  of  money  from  the  empowered  at- 
torney,^ Imsa-sharru-arda,  son  of  Bel-iddin,  on  behalf  of 
Arad-Anu-ilu-la-ilu-iprus  and  Shapi.  He  shall  enter  into 
the  Temple  of  Sharru,  into  the  little  temple,  the  shrine,  and 
shall  deposit  in  the  treasury  the  money,  and  the  singer  and 
the  scribe  shall  receive  it  for  the  exalted  divinity  from  the 
hand  ^  of  Bel-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Bel-abu-akhi,  on  behalf  of 
Khuru,  the  slave  of  Arad-Anu-ilu-Ia-ilu-iprus,  and  *  *  * 
Sharru-shu,  son  of  Dan-ila. 

sealed  by  the  proper  legal  authorities,  the  rights  under  it  should  revert  to 
Neriglissar.  The  action  in  this  tablet  may,  therefore,  have  been  taken  in 
consequence  of  some  irregularity.  Nevertheless,  even  then  the  equity 
was  lost  through  the  greater  power,  knowledge,  or  craftiness  of  Neri- 
glissar. 

•  The  expression  "  ina  qatu  "  means  literally  "  by  the  hand  of,"  but,  as 
Peiser  has  pointed  out,  is  the  technical  expression  for  "power  of  attorney." 

'  This  might  also  be  rendered  "  the  empowered  attorney." 


MARRIAGE  269 

[This  document  is  dated  in  the  twelfth  year  of  Arta- 
xerxes.  It  appears  that  the  two  brothers  mentioned  in 
it  wished  to  make  provision  for  a  slave  of  one  of  them, 
who  was  perhaps  being  cared  for  at  the  Temple  of  Sharru. 
One  man,  perhaps  their  tenant,  was  empowered  to  pay  to 
another  the  rent  of  a  house  of  theirs;  he  in  turn  was  em- 
powered to  take  it  to  the  temple  and  see  that  certain  men 
receive  it.] 


VIII.   MARRIAGE 

I.   Contract  of  the  reign  of  Shamshu-ilu-na,  about  2200  b.  c. 

RiMUM,  son  of  Shamkhatum,  has  taken  as  a  wife  and 
spouse  Bashtum,  the  daughter  of  Belizunu,  the  priestess  (?) 
of  Shamash,  daughter  of  Uzibitum.  Her  bridal  present 
shall  be  *  *  *  shekels  of  money.  When  she  receives  it 
she  shall  be  free.  If  Bashtum  to  Rimum,  her  husband, 
shall  say,  "  Thou  art  not  my  husband,"  they  shall  strangle 
(?)  her  and  cast  her  into  the  river.  If  Rimum  to  Bashtum, 
his  wife,  shall  say,  "  Thou  art  not  my  wife,"  he  shall  pay 
ten  shekels  of  money  as  her  alimony.  They  swore  by 
Shamash,  Marduk,  their  king  Shamshu  -  ilu  -  na,  and 
Sippar. 

[This  marriage  took  place  about  2200  b.  c.  The  bride 
was  a  slave,  and  gained  her  freedom  by  marriage,  and  hence 
the  penalty  imposed  upon  her  in  case  she  divorced  her 
husband  is  greater  than  that  imposed  on  him  in  case  he 
divorced  her.] 

2.    Contract  of  the  thirteenth  year  of  Nebuchadnezzar  II,  591  B.  C. 

Dagil-ili,  son  of  Zambubu,  spoke  to  Khamma,  daugh- 
ter of  Nergal-iddin,  son  of  Babutu,  saying:  "  Give  me  La- 
tubashinni,  thy  daughter;  let  her  be  my  wife."  Khamma 
heard,  and  gave  him  Latubashinni,  her  daughter,  as  a 
wife;  and  Dagil-ili,  of  his  own  free-will,  gave  Ana-eli-Bel- 
amur,  a  slave,  which  he  had  bought  for  half  a  niana  of 
money,  and  half  a  mana  therewith  to  Khamma  instead  of 


270       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Latubashinni,  her  daughter.  On  the  day  that  Dagil-ili 
another  wife  shall  take,  Dagil-ili  shall  give  one  mana  of 
money  unto  Latubashinni,  and  she  shall  return  to  her  place 
— her  former  one.  (Done)  at  the  dwelling  of  Shum-iddin, 
son  of  Ishi-etir,  son  of  Sin-damaqu. 

[This  contract  is  dated  at  Babylon,  in  the  thirteenth 
year  of  the  Biblical  Nebuchadnezzar,  and  is  an  example  of 
marriage  by  purchase — a  form  of  marriage  which  had  prac- 
tically fallen  into  disuse  at  this  time.] 

3.    Contract  of  the  sixth  year  of  Nabonidus,  549  B.  c. 

Nabu-nadin-akhi,  son  of  Bel-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Arad- 
Nergal,  spoke  to  Shum-ukin,  son  of  Mushallimu,  saying, 
**Give  as  a  wife  Ina-Esaggil-banat,  thy  daughter,  the  virgin, 
to  Uballit-su-Gula,  my  son."  Shum-ukin  hearkened  to 
him,  and  gave  Ina-Esaggil-banat,  his  virgin  daughter,  to 
Uballit-su-Gula,  his  son.  He  gave  to  Nabu-nadin-akhi  one 
mana  of  money,  Latubashinni,  Ina-qilli-biti-nakhat,  Tasli- 
mu,  and  the  outfit  for  a  house  with  Ina-Esaggil-banat,  his 
daughter,  as  her  dowry.  Shum-ukin  has  gfiven  to  Nabu- 
nadin-akhi  Nana-kishirat,  his  slave  toward  the,  one  mana 
of  money  of  the  dowry,  instead  of  two  thirds  of  a  mana  of 
money,  at  the  full  price.  Shum-ukin  will  pay  to  Nabu- 
nadin-akhi  one  third  of  a  mana  of  money,  the  balance  of 
one  mana,  and  he  shall  receive  his  dowry  completed  to  one 
(mana)  in  what  it  lacks. 

[This  document  is  dated  in  the  sixth  year  of  Naboni- 
dus, and  is  a  good  example  of  marriage  with  a  dowry.] 


IX.    DIVORCE 

I.   Contract  of  the  third  year  of  Nabonidus,  552  b.  c. 

Na'id-Marduk,  son  of  Shamash-balatsu-iqbi,  will  give, 
of  his  own  free-will,  to  Ramua,  his  wife,  and  Arad-Bunini, 
his  son,  per  day  four  qa  of  food,  three  qa  of  drink;  per  year 


ADOPTION 


271 


fifteen  manas  of  goods,  one  pi  sesame,  one  pi  salt,  which  is 
at  the  store-house.  Na'id-Marduk  will  not  increase  it.  In 
case  she  flees  to  Nergal  *  *  *  the  flight  shall  not  annul 
it.  (Done)  at  the  office  of  Mushezib-Marduk,  priest  of 
Sippar. 

[This  document,  which  bears  the  date  of  the  third  year 
of  Nabonidus,  is  apparently  a  legal  divorce,  in  which  the 
wife  is  granted  alimony.  The  marriage  contracts,  given 
abov»  under  VIII,  make  it  unnecessary  further  to  illustrate 
the  workings  of  Babylonian  divorce  laws.  In  VIII,  i,  the 
bride  was  a  slave,  and  at  her  marriage  was  given,  appar- 
ently by  her  husband,  a  small  sum  of  money  and  her  free- 
dom. He  might,  therefore,  divorce  her  by  giving  her  a 
small  alimony  of  ten  shekels;  but  if  she  divorces  him,  she 
was  to  be  put  to  death.  This  contract  was  not  peculiar  to 
the  early  period  of  its  date,  but  has  parallels  in  the  later 
period  in  the  case  of  brides  who  were  slaves.  In  VIII,  2, 
the  case  is  different.  The  husband  purchased  a  free  bride; 
hence,  if  he  divorced  her,  he  must  give  her  an  alimony 
six  times  as  great  as  that  given  to  the  emancipated  slave 
of  the  previous  contract.  In  VIII,  3,  the  bride  received 
a  dowry,  so  that  no  provision  for  divorce  was  necessary, 
since,  as  the  court  decisions  given  below  prove,  the  dowry 
was  always  the  property  of  the  wife.  In  case  of  her  di- 
vorce the  husband  lost  it,  hence  this  was  a  check  on  di- 
vorce, while  it  assured  the  wife  a  living  in  case  divorce 
occurred.] 


X.    ADOPTION 

I.   Old  Babylonian  contract  from  before  2000  B.  c. 

Arad-Iskhara,  son  of  Ibni-Shamash,  has  adopted 
Ibni-Shamash.  On  the  day  when  Arad-Iskhara  to  Ibni- 
Shamash,  his  father,  shall  say,  "  Thou  art  not  my  father," 
he  shall  bind  him  with  a  chain  and  sell  him  for  money. 
When  Ibni-Shamash  to  Arad-Iskhara,  his  son,  shall  say, 
"  Thou  art  not  my  son,"  he  shall  depart  from  house  and 


272 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


household  goods;  but  a  son  shall  he  remain  and  inherit 
with  his  sons. 

[This  tablet,  which  dates  from  before  2000  b.  c,  needs 
no  explanation.  It  makes  the  form  and  conditions  of  adop- 
tion sufficiently  clear.] 

2.   Contract  of  the  ninth  year  of  Nabonidns,  544  b.  c. 

Bel-kaqir,  son  of  Nadinu,  son  of  Sagillai,  spake  thus 
to  Nadinu,  his  father,  son  of  Ziri-ya,  son  of  Sagillai:  "  To 
Bit-turni  thou  didst  send  me  and  I  took  Zunna  as  my  wife, 
and  she  has  not  borne  me  son  or  daughter.  Bel-ukin, 
son  of  Zunna,  my  wife,  whom  she  bore  to  her  former  hus- 
band, Niqudu,  son  of  Nur-Sin,  let  me  adopt  and  let  him 
be  my  son;  on  a  tablet  record  his  sonship,  and  seal  and  be- 
queath to  him  our  revenues  and  property,  as  much  as  there 
is,  and  let  him  be  the  son  taken  by  our  hands."  Nadinu 
was  not  pleased  with  the  word  Bel-kagir,  his  son,  spoke  to 
him.  Nadinu  had  written  on  a  tablet,  "  For  the  future  any 
other  one  is  not  to  take  their  revenues  and  property,"  and 
had  bound  the  hands  of  Bel-kagir,  and  had  published  in 
the  midst,  saying:  "  On  the  day  when  Nadinu  goes  to  his 
fate,  after  him,  if  a  son  shall  be  bom  from  the  loins  of  Bel- 
kaqir,  his  son  shall  inherit  the  revenues  and  properties  of 
Nadinu,  his  father;  if  a  son  is  not  bom  from  the  loins  of 
Bel-kagir,  Bel-kaqir  shall  adopt  his  brother  and  fellow-heir, 
and  shall  bequeath  his  revenues  and  the  properties  of  Na- 
dinu his  father  to  him.  Bel-kaqir  may  not  adopt  any 
other  one,  but  shall  take  his  brother  and  fellow-heir  unto 
sonship  on  account  of  the  revenues  and  properties  which 
Nadinu  has  bequeathed." 

(From  this  point  the  tablet  is  too  broken  for  translation 
until  we  reach  the  witnesses.  It  was  dated)  at  Babylon  in 
the  ninth  year  of  Nabonidus. 

[This  document  illustrates  not  only  the  method  of 
adoption,  but  the  way  in  which  that  process  might  be  made 
impossible  by  the  will  of  an  ancestor  in  cases  involving 
property.] 


ADOPTION 


273 


3.    Contract  of  the  thirteenth  year  of  Nabonidus,  542  B.  c. 

Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Kuduru,  son  of  Nur-Sin,  had  sealed 
a  tablet  of  adoption  for  his  slave,  Rimanni-Bel,  whose 
name  he  called  Rimut,  in  consideration  of  his  living  and 
clothing.  After  that  the  tablet  of  adoption  wras  sealed. 
Rammani-Bel,  whose  name  is  called  Rimut,  went  away  and 
did  not  give  companionship,  nourishment,  and  clothing. 
Esaggil-ramat,  daughter  of  Ziri-ya,  son  of  Nabai,  wife  of 
Iddin-Marduk,  son  of  Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Nur-Sin,  has 
taken  him,  given  him  shelter  and  befriended  him,  and 
has  given  him  friendship,  nourishment,  and  clothing. 
Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Kuduru,  son  of  Nur-Sin,  of  his  own 
free-will  broke  the  tablet  of  adoption  and  sealed  him 
and  has  delivered  him  to  Esaggil-ramat,  and  Nubtai,  his 
daughter,  the  daughter  of  Iddin-Marduk,  son  of  Nur-Sin. 
He  shall  serve  Esaggil-ramat  and  Nubtai,  her  daughter; 
after  Esaggil-ramat,  he  is  given  unto  Nubtai,  her  daughter. 
Whoever  shall  annul  this  word  and  present  bond,  which 
Iqisha-apla  has  bound  and  given  to  Esaggil-ramat  and 
Nubtai,  his  daughter,  may  Marduk  and  Qiarpanit  command 
his  destruction! 

(This  instrument  is  dated)  at  Babylon,  in  the  thirteenth 
year  of  Nabonidus. 

[We  saw  above  (VIII,  i)  that  marriage  was  a  means 
of  emancipation;  the  tablet  last  given  shows  that  adoption 
was  a  still  more  common  method  of  accomplishing  it.  In 
the  case  before  us,  a  man  who,  judging  from  the  genera- 
tions of  his  descendants  mentioned,  must  have  been  very 
old,  emancipated  or  adopted  his  slave  on  condition  that 
the  slave  should  take  care  of  him.  The  slave  thus  adopted 
ran  away  and  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  granddaughter  of  his 
former  master,  whereupon  that  master  destroyed  the  tablet 
of  adoption,  and  issued  another  tablet,  which  bound  the 
fugitive  in  slavery  to  his  granddaughter  and  great-grand- 
daughter forever.] 


18 


274        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


XL    INHERITANCE 

A  good  example  of  a  will  has  already  been  given  (X,  2).  It  appears 
there  that  wills  like  that  of  Nadinu  would  stand  in  spite  of  the  wishes  of 
some  of  the  heirs.  We  may  here  illustrate  the  division  of  estates  among 
the  heirs. 

I.   Contract  of  the  third  year  of  Cyrus,  535  B.  c. 

Tablet  concerning  the  division  into  Gin  of  an  estate, 
the  dowry  of  Banat-Esaggil,  their  mother,  which  Marduk- 
iddin-akhi,  son  of  Nabu-bel-shinati,  son  of  Nur-Papsukal, 
divided  and  of  which  he  gave  to  Tukultum-Marduk,  son  of 
Nabu-bel-shinati,  son  of  Nur-Papsukal,  his  brother,  his  por- 
tion. Thirty-three  and  two  thirds  cubits,  the  upper  long 
side  on  the  north,  twenty  cubits  bordering  on  the  street  of 
*  *  *,  the  side  of  the  house  of  Ina-qibi-Bel,  son  of  Balatu, 
son  of  the  Rab-Uru,  and  the  side  of  the  house  of  Nabu- 
uballit,  son  of  Kabtiya,  son  of  Nabu-shimi;  thirty-three 
cubits  and  eight  hands,  the  lower  long  side  on  the  south, 
by  the  side  of  the  house  of  Marduk-iddin-akhi,  son  of  Nabu- 
bel-shinati,  son  of  Nur-Papsukal;  thirteen  cubits  eight 
hands,  the  upper  short  side  on  the  west,  bordering  on  the 
street  Katnu-a^u,  thirteen  cubits  eight  hands,  the  lower 
short  side  on  the  east,  eight  cubits  eight  hands  (being  on) 
an  alley  which  is  eight  fingers  wide,  on  the  side  of  the  street 
Katnu-la-aqu;  the  sum  is  eight  and  two  thirds  Gin,  the 
measurement  of  the  estate,  the  portion  of  Tukultum-Mar- 
duk, together  with  two  Gin,  the  difference  *  *  *,  which 
the  chief  justice,  the  shukkaltum  and  the  judges  have  writ- 
ten upon  the  tablet  and  have  granted  to  Tukultum-Mar- 
duk, son  of  Nabu-bel-shanati,  son  of  Nur-Papsukal,  from 
Marduk-iddin-akhi,  son  of  Nabu-bel-shanati,  his  brother. 
Marduk-iddin-akhi  has  thus  given  it  to  Tukultum-Marduk. 
An  exit,  an  inalienable  privilege  which  belongs  to  the  share 
of  Tukultum-Marduk,  Marduk-iddin-akhi,  son  of  Nabu- 
bel-shanati,  son  of  Nur-Papsukal,  will  not  remove  from 
Tukultum-Marduk,  his  brother.  Their  suit  with  one  an- 
other concerning  their  estate  is  ended.  They  will  not  move 
against  one  another  on  the  basis  of  the  suit  about  the 


INHERITANCE 


27s 


estate.    In  order  that  neither  may  undertake  it  they  have 
issued  duplicate  (tablets). 

[This  instrument  was  executed  at  Borsippa  in  the  third 
year  of  Cyrus.  The  subjoined  diagram  will  make  the  divi- 
sion of  the  estate  clear: 


Street 

« 

t 

3 

rt  u 
•-7  u 
in 
ctn 

d 

9 

Inheritance  of  Tukultum-Marduk 

3, 
t 

c 

§ 

Inheritance  of  Marduk-iddin-akhi 

1                 1 

1    *    1 

1                 1 

1         1 
1         I 

1        t 

Street 

*  House  of  Ina-qibi-Bel.  f  House  of  Nabu-uballit. 

J  The  inalienable  right  of  exit  possessed  by  Tukultum-Marduk. 
§  This  space  is  not  a  part  of  the  street  Katnu-la-aju,  but  more  likely 
the  extra  two  Gin  mentioned  in  the  text. 


2.   Contract  of  the  second  year  of  Nabonidus,  553  B.  c. 

Gugua,  daughter  of  Zaqir,  son  of  an  Isinian,  of  her  own 
free-will  has  sealed  one  mana  of  money,  which  with  Nabu- 
akhi-iddin,  son  of  Shula^  son  of  Egibi,  is  deposited — one  half 
mana  five  shekels  of  money  which  is  loaned  to  Tabnia,  son 
of  Nabu-ushallim,  son  of  Sin-shadanu,  for  which  a  house 
is  mortgaged;  one  third  mana  of  money,  which  is  loaned  to 
Tashmitu-ramat,  daughter  of  Arad-Bel,  son  of  Egibi;  a  pro- 
ductive field,  situated  on  the  canal  of  the  town  Kish;  (all) 
her  dowry;  and  allotted  it  to  Ea-zir-ibni,  her  eldest  son. 
One  and  a  half  manas  six  shekels  of  money  Gugua  has  ap- 
portioned, in  the  absence  of  Ea-zir-ibni,  to  her  younger 
sons,  Nabu-akhi-uballit,  Nergal-ishi-etir,  Itti-Shamash-ba- 
latu,  and  Zamama-pir-uqur.  Ea-zir-ibni  shall  not  molest 
them  in  consequence  of  it.    One  mana  of  money,  which  is 


276       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

deposited  with  Nabu-akhi-iddin;  one  half  mana,  which  is  in 
the  possession  of  Tabnia,  one  third  mana,  which  is  in  the 
possession  of  Tashmitu-ramat,  Gugua  has  allotted,  to- 
gether with  the  cultivated  field,  to  Ea-zir-ibni,  her  eldest 
son.  As  long  as  Gugua  lives,  Ea-zir-ibni  shall  give,  from 
the  income  of  his  money,  food  and  a  living  to  Gugua,  his 
mother.  Whatever  it  contains,  Gugua  shall  not  out  of 
affection  give  away,  nor  make  a  division  in  the  foregoing. 
Ea-zir-ibni  need  fear  no  creditor. 

[This  document,  dated  at  Babylon  in  the  second  year 
of  Nabonidus,  illustrates  how  some  Babylonians  disposed 
of  property  before  death.  Gugua  was  evidently  a  widow. 
She  divided  her  estate  among  her  sons,  giving  to  the  eldest 
the  largest  portion,  on  condition  that  during  her  lifetime 
he  should  feed  and  clothe  her.  In  return  she  guarantees 
to  alienate  none  of  his  inheritance,  nor  to  run  him  into 
debt.] 


XII.    LEGAL  DECISIONS 

I.   Tablet  from  the  accession  year  of  Nabonidus,  555  B.  c. 

Belilit,  daughter  of  Bel-ushezib,  son  of  the  road- 
master  (?),  deposed  to  the  judges  of  Nabonidus,  King  of 
Babylon,  saying:  "  In  the  month  Ab,  of  the  first  year  of 
Neriglissar,  King  of  Babylon,  I  sold  Bazuzu,  my  slave,  for 
half  a  mana  five  shekels  of  money  to  Nabu-akhi-iddin,  son 
of  Shula,  son  of  Egibi;  ^  I  took  his  note,  but  he  has  not 
paid  the  money."  The  judges  of  the  king  heard,  and  they 
summoned  Nabu-akhi-iddin  and  set  him  before  them. 
Nabu-akhi-iddin  produced  the  receipt,  which  Belilit  had 
given,  that  she  had  received  the  money,  the  price  of  Ba- 
zuzu, and  showed  it  to  the  judges.  Ziriya,  Nabu-shum- 
lishir,  and  Ebilu  had  embezzled  the  money  of  Belilit,  their 
mother;  he  established  it  before  the  judges.  The  judges 
deliberated  and  they  took  from  Belilit  one  half  mana  five 

'  This  transaction  is  still  extant.    C£.  Strassmaier,  6th  O.  C,  No.  113, 
and  Evetts,  Ner.  23, 


LEGAL  DECISIONS  277 

shekels  of  money,  as  much  as  he  had  paid,  and  gave  it  to 
Nabu-akhi-iddin. 

(This  decision,  which  is  signed  by  six  judges  and  the 
clerk  of  the  court,  is  dated)  at  Babylon,  in  the  accession 
year  of  Nabonidus. 

[It  is  clear  from  this  case  that  a  false  suit  did  not,  ac- 
cording to  Babylonian  law,  result  in  a  simple  dismissal;  a 
fine,  equal  to  the  sum  unjustly  sued  for,  was  imposed  on  the 
plaintiff  and  paid  to  the  defendant.  This  must  have  been 
a  powerful  deterrent  to  unjust  claims,  since  they  were  likely 
to  result  in  benefiting  the  defendant  by  as  much  as  the 
plaintiff  sought  to  injure  him.  J 

2.   Tablet  of  the  ninth  year  of  Nabonidus,  546  B.  c. 

Bunanit,  daughter  of  the  Kharizite,  deposed  to  the 
judges  of  Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon,  saying:  "  Ben- 
Hadad-natan,  son  of  Nikbata,  took  me  as  his  wife,  and 
received  three  manas  of  money  as  my  dowry.  I  bore  him 
one  daughter.  I  and  Ben-Hadad-natan,  my  husband, 
gained  by  selling  and  buying  with  the  money  of  my  dowry, 
and  we  bought  eight  Gin  of  an  estate,  land  not  far  beyond 
the  midst  of  Borsippa,  for  nine  and  two  thirds  manas  of 
money,  including  two  and  a  half  manas  of  money  which 
was  borrowed  from  Iddin-Marduk,  son  of  Basha,  son  of 
Nur-Sin;  we  added  to  the  other,  and  paid  ^  for  the  price  of 
that  estate;  and  we  traded  together  in  the  fourth  year  of 
Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon.  Since  my  dowry  was  with 
Ben-Hadad-natan,  my  husband,  I  asked  for  it,  and  Ben- 
Hadad-natan,  in  the  kindness  of  his  heart,  sealed  and  de- 
vised to  me  for  the  future  the  eight  Gin  of  that  estate  which 
is  in  Borsippa,  and  declared  it  on  my  tablet,  saying:  '  Two 
and  a  half  manas  of  money  which  Ben-Hadad-natan  and 
Bunanit  from  Iddin-Marduk  borrowed  was  paid  toward 
the  price  of  that  estate;  they  transacted  it  together.'  That 
tablet  he  sealed,  and  wrote  upon  it  the  curse  of  the  great 
gods.    In  the  fifth  year  of  Nabonidus,  King  of  Babylon, 

•  The  documents  recording  these  transactions  have  been  recovered. 
One  of  them  is  published  above  (V,  3). 


2;8       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

I  and  Ben-Hadad-natan,  my  husband,  adopted  Ben-Ha- 
dad-amara.  We  wrote  the  tablet  of  his  adoption,  and  we 
announced  the  dowry  of  Nubta,  my  daughter,  two  manas 
ten  shekels  of  money,  and  the  furniture  of  a  house.  Fate 
took  my  husband,  and  now  Iqbi-ilu,  the  son  of  my 
father-in-law,  has  laid  a  claim  to  the  estate  and  all  which 
he  had  sealed  and  devised  to  me  and  upon  Nabu-nur-ilani, 
whom  we  purchased  through  the  agency  of  Nabu-akhi- 
iddin.  I  have  brought  it  before  you;  make  a  decision." 
The  judges  heard  their  complaint;  they  discussed  the  tab- 
lets and  documents  which  Bunanit  brought  before  them, 
and  they  granted  Iqbi-ilu  no  power  over  the  house  in 
Borsippa,  which  instead  of  her  dowry  had  been  devised 
unto  Bunanit,  over  Nabu-nur-ilani,  whom  she  and  her  hus- 
band had  bought  for  silver,  nor  over  anything  belonging  to 
Ben-Hadad-natan.  To  Bunanit  and  Ben-Hadad-amara  they 
established  them  in  consequence  of  their  tablets.  Iddin- 
Marduk  is  paid  and  receives  his  two  and  a  half  manas  of 
money,  which  they  paid  on  the  price  of  that  estate.  After- 
ward Bunanit  shall  receive  the  three  and  a  half  manas  of 
her  dowry,  and  besides  her  share  Nubta  shall  receive  Nabu- 
nur-ilani,  according  to  the  will  of  her  father. 

[The  record  of  this  suit,  which  bears  the  date  of  the 
ninth  year  of  Nabonidus,  received  the  signatures  of  six 
judges  and  two  clerksl  None  of  the  judges  are  the  same 
as  those  who  signed  the  record  of  Belilit's  suit  except 
Nergal-banunu,  who  was  then  clerk  of  the  court,  but  had 
at  the  time  of  Bunanit's  suit  become  chief  justice.] 


XIII.    SOME  OTHER   PHASES  OF   COURT 
PROCEDURE 

I.    Tablet  of  the  eighth  year  of  Cyrus,  529  b.  c, 

Nabu-akhi-uballit,  son  of  Shu  *  *  *,  the  inspector 
of  the  city  Shakhrin  *  *  *,  on  the  twenty-eighth  day  of 
Adar,  in  the  eighth  year  of  Cyrus,  King  of  Babylon,  king 


SOME   OTHER   PHASES  OF   COURT   PROCEDURE     279 

of  countries,  deposed  to  Bel-uballit,  the  notary  *  of  Sip- 
par,  saying:  "  I  took  Nana-iddin,  son  of  Bau-ulid,  into  my 
house,  saying:  '  Am  I  the  brother  of  thy  father  and  the 
inspector  of  the  city?  Why  hast  thou  raised  thy  hand 
against  me?  '  Ramman-sharra-uqur,  son  of  Nabu-ushezib; 
Lulgiya  and  Irba,  his  brothers;  Kutka-ili,  son  of  Bau-ulid; 
Bel-ubalHt,  son  of  Bariki-ili;  Bel-akhi-uqur,  son  of  Ram- 
man-ushallim;  and  Iqisha-apla,  son  of  Shamash-sharra-u^ur, 
have  broken  open  my  door  like  demons;  and  from  my 
house,  when  they  had  forced  an  entrance,  they  took  one 
mana  of  my  money." 

[This  document  bears  the  names  of  four  witnesses  and 
a  scribe;  it  is  dated  Adar  twenty-eighth,  eighth  year  of 
Cyrus.  This  was  not  the  end  of  the  matter,  as  the  next 
tablet  will  show.] 

2.   Tablet  of  the  eighth  year  of  Cyrus,  529  B.  c. 

*  *  *  They  came  and  they  saw  the  fracture  (?)  of  the 
door  and  the  rending  of  the  threshold.  Shamash-iddin, 
son  of  Ziriya,  assembled  the  elders  of  the  city,  and  then 
he  placed  Nana-iddin  under  bonds  to  Nabu-(akhi-bullit), 
together  with  Nabu(?)-iddin,  son  of  Pir'a,  Nabu-etir-nap- 
shati,  son  of  Rimut,  son  of  *  *  *,  Iqibu,  son  of  Pir'a, 
son  of  the  priest  of  Gula,  Shamash-lama',  son  of  Submadu, 
Bel-ushallim,  son  of  Bel-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Shigua,  Nabu- 
ushezib,  son  of  Nabu-ukin-akhi,  Ramman(?)-sharra-u^ur, 
son  of  Abu-nu-epish,  *  *  *,  son  of  *  *  *.  (Their 
hands)  against  him  they  raised,  (the  door  of  his  house) 
(they  broke),  into  his  house  (they  entered).  (Under 
the  l(aw  concerning  the  house)  they  are  gui(lty).  Sha- 
mash-iddin, son  of  Ziriya,  when  he  was  rigorously  exam- 
ining them  concerning  the  house,  declared,  saying — also 
Ramman-sharra-ugur,  son  of  Nabu-ushezib,  Nabu-uballit, 
son  of  Bariki-ili,  Irba,  son  of  Bau-ulid,  Lulgia,  son  of 
Nabu-ushezib,  Bel-akhi-uqur,  son  of  Ramman-ushallim, 
declared,  saying — ^also  Kutka-ili,  son  of  Bau-ulid,  Bel- 
uballit,  son  of  Bariki-ili,  declared,  saying:  "  I  was  there 
'  Literally  "  priest,"  but  often  this  word  stands  for  scribe. 


280        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

when  we  drew  near  the  door."  Ramman-(sharra-U9ur,  son 
of  Nabu-ushezib,  also  declared,  saying:)  I  *•*  *^  Adar 
thirtieth,  eighth  year  of  (Cyrus,  King  of  Babylon). 

[The  two  preceding  tablets  have  preserved  the  record 
of  a  crimnal  case  in  Sippar,  in  the  reign  next  after  that  of 
Nabonidus,  the  work  of  whose  judges  we  saw  in  XII. 
Here  the  elders  of  the  city,  as  in  the  Old  Testament,  try 
the  case,  but  apparently  with  thoroughness  and  justice, 
though  what  sentence  they  imposed  does  not  appear.  A 
similar  case  appears  in  Hilprecht  and  Clay's  Texts,  ix 
No.  69,  in  which  the  owner  agrees  to  abandon  legal  pro- 
ceedings if  the  stolen  property  is  restored.] 

3.   Contract  of  the  twelfth  year  of  Nabonidus,  543  B.  c. 

Three  manas  fifty  shekels  of  money,  which  the  judges 
wrote  on  the  tablet  and  gave  to  Bel-rimanni,  son  of  La- 
bashi-Marduk,  son  of  Ina-Ramman-takallal,  and  concern- 
ing the  tablet  of  Arad-gula  and  Damqana,  his  wife,  and 
concerning  the  slaves  and  house  which  he  pledged,  Bel- 
rimanni  (ask)ed.  Nergal-uballit  the  full  claim  against 
Arad-Gula  allowed,  saying:  "  I  grant  the  full  claim,  all  of  it, 
which  Arad-Gula  has  not  met,  to  Bel-rimanni,  upon  the 
slaves  and  house,  which  were  pledged.  Bel-rimanni  has 
brought  before  the  judges  of  the  king  Ana-Tashmit-atkal, 
Amtiya,  Nana-ana-biti-shu,  and  Zamama-iddin,  the  people 
of  the  house  of  Arad-Gula,  the  house  which  was  pledged, 
the  slaves  which  they  had  mortgaged  to  Bel-rimanni,  ac- 
cording to  his  tablet,  instead  of  three  manas  fifty  shekels  of 
money,  the  full  price,  are  given,  received,  taken;  there  is 
nothing  further."  And  in  order  that  there  may  be  no 
renewal  and  an  appeal  be  made  concerning  those  slaves  to 
the  judges,  they  have  written  a  tablet,  sealed  it  with  their 
seals,  and  have  given  it  to  Bel-rimanni. 

(The  names  of  the  judges  follow,  together  with  the 
date:)  Babylon,  Shebat  twenty-sixth,  twelfth  year  of  Na- 
bonidus. [This  document  is  a  legal  execution,  and  needs 
no  comment.] 

■  Some  lines  are  wanting. 


SOME   OTHER   PHASES  OF  COURT   PROCEDURE    28 1 


4.    Contract  of  the  thirty-seventh  year  of  Artaxerxes,  427  B.  c. 

Bel-akhi-iddin,  son  of  Bel-na'id,  of  his  own  free-will 
spoke  to  Bel-shum-iddin,  son  of  Murashu,  saying:  "Deliver 
unto  me  Nidintum-Bel,  son  of  Eshi-etir,  my  brother,  who 
is  held  in  prison.  I  will  become  his  surety  that  he  does  not 
go  from  Nippur  to  another  place."  Whereupon  Bel-shum- 
iddin,  son  of  Murashu,  hearkened  to  him,  and  delivered 
unto  him  Nidintum-Bel,  son  of  Eshi-etir,  his  brother,  who 
was  held  in  prison.  On  the  day  when  Nidintum-Bel,  son 
of  Eshi-etir,  shall  go  without  the  judge's  permit  from  Nip- 
pur to  another  place,  Bel-akhi-iddin  shall  pay  to  Bel-shum- 
iddin  ten  manas  of  money. 

(The  above  is  dated)  at  Nippur  in  the  thirty-seventh 
year  of  Artaxerxes  I.  [It  is  clearly  the  record  of  a  bond  by 
means  of  which  a  man  went  bail  for  his  nephew.] 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT 
OF  THE  CREATION 


10  NG  since,   when  above   the   heaven   had   not   been 
named, 
•^    when  the  earth  beneath  (still)  bore  no  name, 

when  the  ocean  (apsu),  the  primeval,  the  generator  of  them, 
and 

the  originator  (?)  Tiamat,  who  brought  forth  them  both  * — 

their  waters  were  mingled  together; 

when  fields  were  (still)  unformed,  reeds  (still)  nowhere  to 
be  seen. 

Long  since,  when  no  one  of  the  gods  had  been  called  into 
being, 

when  no  name  had  been  named,  no  fates  [had  been  de- 
termined] ; 

then  were  created  the  gods,  [all  of  them?]. 

Luchmu  and  Lachamu  were  called  into  being    [as  the 
first?]  .2 

Ages  multiplied  [and  days  grew  old?] ; 

An-shar  (and)  Ki-shar  *  were  created. 

Long  were  the  days  *  *  *  [before?] 

Anu,  [Bel,  and  Ea  were  created,  the  great  gods?] 

An-shar  and  Ki[-shar  *  *  *] 

[What  follows  is  broken  off.] 

'  That  is,  heaven  and  earth.     How  this  was  done,  see  p.  294,  line  34, 
to  p.  2g5,  line  8. 

'  This  oldest  pair  of  gods  is  mentioned  also  elsewhere. 
•  The  personifications  of  the  upper  and  the  lower  world. 

282 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION    283 

Two  new  fragments  discovered  by  Professor  Carl  Be- 
zold  in  the  British  Museum  collection  appear  to  belong 
to  this  first  tablet.  The  former  relates  how  Apsu  and  Tia- 
mat  bewailed  the  creation  of  light  and  how  their  son  Mum- 
mu  (the  Maviik  of  Damascius)  reveals  unto  them  a  plan  to 
change  the  light  back  again  into  utter  darkness. 

Let  the  light  be  darkened,  like  night  may  [it  be. 

Upon  hearing  this  Apsu's  face  brightened  up. 

They  planned  evil  against  the  gods  [,  their  first-born]. 

[After  another  break  of  some  fifteen  or  twenty  lines, 
there  follows  the  account  of  the  revolt  of  Tiamat  against 
the  upper  gods,  which  is  found  four  times  in  the  same  form 
in  this  account  of  the  creation.] 

Tiamat,  the  mother  of  the  gods,  turned  against  them  in 
hatred 

with  all  her  force;  she  is  bitterly  enraged. 

To  her  turn  the  gods,  without  exception. 

[Even  those,  whom  Luchmu  and  Lachamu  created,  go  to 
her  aid] 

They  are  banded  together,  and  at  the  side  of  Tiamat  they 
advance; 

cursing  the  day  (light),  they  follow  Tiamat. 

Angry,  plotting,  restless  by  day  and  by  night, 

ready  for  the  fray,  fuming  and  raging, 

they  banded  themselves  together  and  started  the  revolt. 

The  mother  of  the  deep,^  the  creator  of  all, 

has  made  in  addition  invincible  weapons,  spawning  mon- 
ster serpents, 

sharp  of  tooth,  and  unsparing  of  fang; 

with  poison  instead  of  blood  she  filled  their  bodies. 

Monster  vipers,  fierce  ones,  she  clothed  with  terror, 

decked  them  with  awful  splendour,  and  made  them  high  of 
stature  (?), 

that  their  aspect  might  inject  terror  and  arouse  horror. 

Their  bodies  are  inflated,  irresistible  is  their  attack. 

'  Tiamat. 


284       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

The  viper  she  created,  the  dragon,  and  the  lachamu,* 

the  storm-giant,  the  mad  hound,  and  the  scorpion-man, 

the  raging  storms,  the  fish-man,  and  the  ram, 

provided  with  w^eapons,  unmerciful,  not  dreading  a  fight; 

defiant  of  mind,  invincible  against  all  enemies. 

In  addition  to  creating  thus  these  eleven, 

she  exalted  among  the  gods,  her  sons,  whom  she  had  borne, 

Kingu,  and  made  him  greatest  among  them  all  (saying): 

"  To  march  before  the  host,  let  that  be  thy  mission; 

Command  the  weapons  to  strike,  the  attack  to  begin." 

To  be  foremost  in  war,  supreme  in  victory, 

she  intrusted  to  him;  and  placed  him  upon  a  throne  (say- 
ing): 

"  By  my  charm  and  incantation  *  I  have  raised  thee  to 
power  among  the  gods. 

The  dominion  over  all  the  gods  I  intrusted  to  thee. 

Lofty  thou  shalt  be,  thou  my  chosen  spouse; 

Great  be  thy  name  in  all  the  [world] ." 

She  then  gave  him  the  Tablets  of  Destiny,  and  laid  them 
upon  his  breast  (saying): 

"  Thy  command  be  never  annulled,  firm  stand  the  word 
of  thy  mouth." 

Thus  exalted  and  having  obtained  divine  power  ' 

among  the  gods,  her  children,  Kingu  ruled. 

"  Let  the  opening  of  your  mouth  quench  the  fire; 

he  that  excels  in  bravery,  let  him  rise  in  power." 

The  second  tablet  opens  with  a  verbatim  report  of  the 
situation  described  in  the  second  half  of  the  first  tablet,  to 
the  god  An-shar,  who  becomes  gfreatly  distressed  and  ex- 
cited, smites  his  sides  in  anger  and  wrath,  bites  his  lips, 
and  breaks  out  in  cries  of  fury.  One  of  the  gods  ventures 
to  suggest  that  it  would  certainly  be  possible  for  An-shar, 
the  great  warrior,  to  slay  Apsu,  and  fight  successfully  with 
Tiamat.    Then  follows  a  break,  and  after  that,  An-shar 

'  Monster  (?)  ;  a  being  different,  of  course,  from  the  two  gods  mentioned 
in  the  beginning  of  this  tablet,  line  lo. 

'  Referring  to  the  lines  "  To  march,  ttc. — begin.'' 

•  Literally,  the  Anu-ship  ;  that  is,  the  power  of  god  Anu. 


BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF   THE   CREATION. 
Bilingual  tablet  from  Abu-Habbah,  the  ancient  Sippara. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION    285 

turns  to  his  son  Anu,  "the  powerful,  courageous  hero, 
whose  strength  and  power  [are  great]  and  whose  onslaught 
is  irresistible,"  and  calls  upon  him  to  defeat  Tiamat: 

"  [Get  thee]  and  before  Tiamat  stand  thou  up; 
Perchance  her  anger  be  quieted  and  her  heart  be  softened. 
[But  if  she  resists]  and  hearkens  not  to  thy  word, 
[speak  *  *  *  to  her] ,  and  then  she  may  be  quieted." 
And  Anu  listened  to  the  word  of  An-shar,  his  father. 
Straightway  he  went  to  her;  to  her  he  marched. 
But  as  he  [approached]  and  beheld  the  awful  visage  of 

Tiamat, 
Anu  took  fright  and  fled  in  haste. 

What  he  reported  to  An-shar  is  not  preserved.  From 
Tablet  III,  54,  it  may  be  gathered  that  An-shar  then  turned 
to  Nudimmud,^  but  here  he  pleaded  also  in  vain.  There- 
upon Marduk,  Ea's  son,  volunteers  to  fight  Tiamat,  but 
under  conditions  which  he  communicated  forthwith  to  An- 
shar,  his  grandfather  (whom,  however,  he  addresses  as 
"  father,"  meaning,  no  doubt,  "  father  of  the  gods  ").  An- 
shar  accedes  to  his  conditions,  and  promises  him  great  re- 
ward and  high  honours.  The  closing  lines  of  the  second 
tablet  are  thus: 

Marduk  heard  the  word  of  his  father." 

His  heart  [rejoiced]  and  he  spoke  thus  to  his  father: 

"  O  lord  of  the  gods,  fate-determiner  of  the  great  gods, 

when  indeed  I  shall  become  your  avenger, 

conquering  Tiamat  and  thus  saving  your  lives, 

assemble  the  gods  and  proclaim  my  control  as  supreme. 

In  Ubshukenna  *  then  enter  ye  all  joyfully, 

and  my  authority  instead  of  thine  shall  assume  control.* 

'  Or  Nugimmud,  a  name  for  Ea,  the  father  of  Marduk  (Merodach). 

'  Meaning  An-shar. 

»  Name  of  the  Chamber  of  Fates,  the  assembly  room  where  the  gods 
annually  on  New- Year's  day  gather  to  determine  the  lot  to  king  and  to 
the  nation. 

*  Also  translated,  "With  my  word,  instead  of  thine,  I  will  determine 

the  lot." 


286       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Let  whatsoever  I  do  remain  unaltered; 
unchangeable  and  irrevocable  be  ever  the  command  of  my 
lips." 

An-shar  opened  his  mouth,  and 

to  Gaga,  his  messenger,  he  said: 

"  Go,  Gaga,  my  messenger,  thou  who  rejoicest  my  heart, 

to  Luchmu  and  Lachamu  I  will  send  thee; 

willingly  then  hear  the  command  of  my  heart. 

[*  *  *]  thy  [*  *  *]  before  thee 

[invite  to  the  assembly]  the  gods,  them  all; 

[may  they  sit  down  at  table],  partake  at  the  feast; 

[may  eat  bread]  and  mix  the  wine, 

[may  mount]  their  [seats]  and  decree  the  fate.* 

Go,  then.  Gaga,  stand  before  them,^ 

[the  word  that  I  now  tell  thee],  repeat  unto  them  (and 
say): 

An-shar,  your  son,^  has  sent  me  (to  you), 

the  command  of  his  heart  he  intrusted  to  me  (saying) : 

Tiamat,  our  mother,  turned  against  us  in  hatred 

with  all  her  force;  she  is  bitterly  enraged. 

To  her  turn  the  gods,  without  exception. 

Even  those,  created  by  you,  go  to  her  aid. 

They  are  banded  together,  and  at  the  side  of  Tiamat  they 
advance; 

cursing  the  day  (light),  they  follow  Tiamat. 

Angry,  plotting,  restless  by  day  and  by  night, 

ready  for  the  fray,  fuming  and  raging, 

they  banded  themselves  together  and  started  the  revolt. 

The  mother  of  the  deep,  the  creator  of  all, 

has  made  in  addition  invincible  weapons,  spawning  mon- 
ster-serpents, 

sharp  of  tooth,  and  unsparing  of  fang; 

with,  poison  instead  of  blood  she  filled  their  bodies; 

monster-vipers,  fierce  ones,  she  clothed  with  terror, 

'  These  four  lines,  no  doubt,  indicate  what  the  gods  are  to  do  before 
Marduk  goes  forth  to  defeat  Tiamat. 
•  Meaning  Luchmu  and  Lachamu. 
'  See  Tablet  I,  p.  282,  lines  10  and  12. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION    287 

decked  them  with  awful  splendour  and  made  them  high  of 
stature  (?), 

that  their  aspect  might  inject  terror  and  arouse  horror. 

Their  bodies  are  inflated,  irresistible  is  their  attack. 

The  viper  she  created,  the  dragon,  and  the  lachamu, 

the  storm-giant,  the  mad  hound,  and  the  scorpion-man, 

the  raging  storms,  the  fish-man,  and  the  ram, 

provided  with  weapons,  unmerciful,  not  dreading  a  fight; 

defiant  of  mind,  invincible  against  all  enemies. 

In  addition  to  creating  thus  these  eleven, 

she  exalted  among  the  gods,  her  sons,  that  she  had  borne, 

Kingu,  and  made  him  greatest  among  them  all  (saying): 

*  To  march  before  the  host,  kt  that  be  thy  mission; 

Command  the  weapons  to  strike,  the  attack  to  begin.' 

To  be  foremost  in  war,  supreme  in  victory, 

she  intrusted  to  him,  and  placed  him  upon  a  throne  (say- 
ing): 

'  By  my  charm  and  incantation  I  have  raised  thee  to  power 
among  the  gods. 

The  dominion  over  all  the  gods  I  intrusted  to  thee. 

Lofty  thou  shaft  be,  thou  my  chosen  spouse; 

Great  be  thy  name  in  all  the  world.' 

She  then  gave  him  the  Tablets  of  Destiny,  and  laid  them 
upon  his  breast  (saying): 

'  Thy  command  be  never  annulled,  firm  stand  the  word  of 
thy  mouth.' 

Thus  exalted  and  having  obtained  divine  power, 

among  the  gods,  her  children,  Kingu  ruled. 

'  Let  the  opening  of  your  mouth  quench  the  fire; 

he  that  excels  in  bravery,  let  him  rise  in  power.' 

I  sent  Anu,  but  he  dared  not  to  face  her. 

Nudimmud  was  afraid  and  turned  to  flight. 

Then  I  called  upon  Marduk,  the  counsellor  of  gods,  your 
son; 

To  go  against  Tiamat  he  has  set  his  mind. 

He  opened  his  mouth  and  thus  spoke  unto  me: 

'  When  indeed  I  shall  become  your  avenger, 

conquering  Tiamat,  and  thus  saving  your  lives. 


288       ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

assemble  all  the  gods  and  proclaim  my  control  as  supreme. 

In  Ubshukenna  then  enter  ye  all  joyfully, 

and  my  authority  instead  of  thine  shall  assume  control. 

Let  whatsoever  I  do  remain  unaltered; 

unchangeable  and  irrevocable  be  ever  the  command  of  my 
lips.'  ' 

Hasten,  then,  and  quickly  deliver  your  dominion  to  him, 

that  he  may  go  and  meet  your  enemy,  the  mighty! " 

Gaga  departed  and  wended  his  way 

until  he  came  to  Luchmu  and  Lachamu,  the  gods,  his 
fathers. 

There  he  prostrated  himself,  kissing  the  ground  at  their 
feet. 

He  bowed  down,  rose  up  again,  and  spoke  thus  unto  them: 

"  An-shar,  your  son,  has  sent  me  to  you, 

the  command  of  his  heart  he  intrusted  to  me,  (saying): 

'  Tiamat,  our  mother,  turned  against  us  in  hatred 

with  all  her  force;  she,  is  bitterly  enraged. 

To  her  turn  the  gods,  without  exception. 

Even  those,  created  by  you,  go  to  her  aid. 

They  are  banded  together,  and  at  the  side  of  Tiamat  they 
advance; 

cursing  the  day  (light),  they  follow  Tiamat. 

Angry,  plotting,  restless  by  day  and  by  night, 

ready  for  the  fray,  fuming  and  raging, 

they  banded  themselves  together,  and  started  the  revolt. 

The  mother  of  the  deep,  the  creator  of  all, 

has  made  in  addition  invincible  weapons,  spawning  mon- 
ster-serpents, 

sharp  of  tooth,  and  unsparing  of  fang; 

with  poison  instead  of  blood  she  filled  their  bodies; 

monster-vipers,  fierce  ones,  she  clothed  with  terror, 

decked  them  with  awful  splendour,  and  made  them  high  of 
stature  (?), 

that  their  aspect  might  inject  terror  and  arouse  horror. 

Their  bodies  are  inflated,  irresistible  is  their  attack. 

The  viper  she  created,  the  dragon,  and  the  lachamu, 

the  storm-giant,  the  mad  hound,  and  the  scorpion-man. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION  289 

the  raging  storms,  the  fish-man,  and  the  ram, 

provided  with  weapons,  unmerciful,  not  dreading  a  fight, 

defiant  of  mind,  invincible  against  all  enemies. 

In  addition  to  creating  thus  these  eleven, 

she  exalted  among  the  gods,  her  sons,  that  she  had  borne, 

Kingu,  and  made  him  greatest  among  them  all  (saying): 

'  To  march  before  the  host,  let  that  be  thy  mission; 

Command  the  weapons  to  strike,  the  attack  to  begin.' 

To  be  foremost  in  war,  supreme  in  victory, 

she  intrusted  to  him,  and  placed  him  upon  a  throne  (say- 
ing): 

*  By  my  charm  and  incantation  I  have  raised  thee  to  power 
among  the  gods. 

The  dominion  over  all  the  gods  I  intrusted  to  thee. 

Lofty  thou  shalt  be,  thou  my  chosen  spouse; 

Great  be  thy  name  in  all  the  [world] .' 

She  then  gave  him  the  Tablets  of  Destiny,  and  laid  them 
upon  his  breast  (saying): 

'  Thy  command  be  never  annulled,  firm  stand  the  word  of 
thy  mouth.' 

Thus  exalted  and  having  obtained  divine  power, 

among  the  gods,  her  children,  Kingu  ruled. 

'  Let  the  opening  of  your  mouth  quench  the  fire; 

he  that  excels  in  bravery,  let  him  rise  in  power.' 

I  sent  Anu,  but  he  dared  not  to  face  her. 

Nudimmud  was  afraid  and  turned  to  flight. 

Then  I  called  upon  Marduk,  the  counsellor  of  gods,  your 
son; 

To  go  against  Tiamat  he  has  set  his  mind. 

He  opened  his  mouth  and  thus  spoke  unto  me : 

'  When  indeed  I  shall  become  your  avenger, 

conquering  Tiamat,  and  thus  saving  your  lives, 

assemble  all  the  gods  and  proclaim  my  control  as  supreme. 

In  Ubshukenna  then  enter  ye  all  joyfully, 

and  my  authority  instead  of  thine  shall  assume  control. 

Let  whatsoever  I  do  remain  unaltered; 

unchangeable  and  irrevocable  be  ever  the  command  of  my 
lips.' 
19 


290 


ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


Hasten,  then,  and  quickly  deliver  your  dominion  to  him, 
that  he  may  go  and  meet  your  enemy,  the  mighty! '  " 
When  Luchmu  and  Lachamu  heard  this,  [their  heart  be- 
came frightened], 
and  the  host  of  heaven's  gods  were  wailing  bitterly,  (say- 
ing): 
"What  indeed  has  happened  that  they  conceived  hatred  (?); 
we  can  not  understand  the  [actions]  of  Tiamat." 
Then  they  gathered  together,  proceeded  to  [*  *  *] ; 
the  great  gods,  all  of  them,  who  decree  fate, 
entered  in  before  An-shar,  and  filled  [the  chamber?]. 
They  encouraged  one  another  by  gathering  together,  and 
sat  down  to  the  banquet,  [and  partook  of]  the  meal; 
Ate  bread  and  mixed  [wine] . 
The  sweet  wine  confused  their  senses, 
drinking  they  waxed  drunk,  their  bodies  were  filled  (with 

meat  and  drink); 
They  became  bewildered,  their  [spirits]  rose,  and 
to  Marduk,  their  avenger,  they  intrusted  the  rule. 

Thereupon  the  gods  placed  Marduk  on  the  royal  throne, 

surpassing  his  fathers  in  power,  he  took  his  place  as  de- 
cider and  ruler. 

[When  Marduk  had  taken  his  seat,  the  gods  addressed  him 
in  the  following  words:] 

"  Yea,  thou  art  the  honoured  among  the  great  gods; 

thy  destiny  is  unequalled,  thy  word  is  '  Anu  '  ^  indeed. 

O  Marduk,  thou  art  the  honoured  among  the  great  gods; 

thy  destiny  is  unequalled,  thy  word  is  '  Anu '  indeed. 

Henceforth  thy  command  shall  be  absolute; 

To  exalt  and  to  abase  shall  be  within  thy  power. 

Verily,  thy  word  shall  be  supreme,  thy  command  irresistible. 

None  among  the  gods  shall  trespass  upon  thy  dominion. 

May  abundance,  the  desire  of  the  shrines  of  the  gods, 

while  they  are  in  want,  be  showered  upon  thy  sanctuary! 

Marduk,  as  thou  indeed  wilt  become  our  avenger, 

we  gladly  give  thee  dominion  over  the  whole  world. 

•  That  is,  thy  power  Is  equal  to  that  of  god  Anu. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION    291 

In  the  council  (of  the  gods)  may  thy  word  always  prevail; 

thy  weapon  be  always  victorious,  crushing  the  foe  and  the 
enemy ! 

O  lord,  spare  thou  the  life  of  him  that  putteth  his  trust  in 
thee; 

but  as  for  the  god  who  led  the  rebellion,  pour  out  the  blood 
of  his  life." 

Thereupon  the  gods  spread  out  in  their  midst  a  garment; 

to  Marduk,  their  first-born,  they  spoke: 

"  Thy  rule,  O  lord,  shall  surpass  that  of  the  gods, 

to  vanish  and  to  create — speak  thou,  and  thus  it  shall  be. 

Open  thy  mouth  and  command,  and  the  garment  shall  dis- 
appear; 

Speak  then  again,  and  the  garment  shall  reappear." 

As  Marduk  uttered  the  word,  the  garment  disappeared; 

and  again  he  spoke,  and,  behold,  the  garment  was  there. 

When  the  gods,  his  fathers,  beheld  such  power  of  his 
word, 

they  greeted  him  joyfully,  saying,  "  Marduk  is  king." 

They  invested  him  with  sceptre,  with  throne,  and  with 

ring  (?). 
and  gave  him  a  weapon,  unequalled,  to  kill  the  enemy. 

"  Go,  now  "  (they  said),  "  and  cut  asunder  the  life-thread  of 

Tiamat, 
let  the  winds  carry  her  blood  to  hidden  regions."  ^ 
Thus   the   gods,   his   fathers,   fixed   the   destiny   of   Bel 

(-Merodach) 
and  wished  him  safety  and  success  in  the  work  upon  which 

he  entered. 
He  made  ready  a  bow,  he  girded  his  weapon  upon  him; 
He  prepared  a  lance,  to  be  used  in  the  fight  before  him. 
A  club  he  took  also;  in  his  right  hand  he  grasped  it. 
The  bow  and  the  quiver  he  hung  at  his  side. 
He  made  a  flash  of  lightning  to  go  before  him, 
whose  midst  he  filled  with  destructive  fire. 
He  made  a  net  wherewith  to  inclose  the  life  of  Tiamat. 
The  four  winds  he  set,  so  that  she  might  not  escape. 

'  That  is,  far  away. 


292       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

The  south  wind  and  north  wind,  the  east  wind  and  west 

wind 
he  brought  near  to  the  net,  which  his  father  Anu  had 

given  him. 
He  created  the  evil  wind,  the  storm,  and  the  hurricane, 
The  fourfold  wind,  the  sevenfold  wind,  the  whirlwind,  the 

wind  without  equal; 
Then  he  let  loose  the  winds  which  he  had  created,  seven 

in  all. 
To  destroy  the  life  of  Tiamat,  they  swept  along  after  him. 
Then  Bel  (the  lord)  grasped  the  "  storm,"  his  mighty 

weapon, 
He  mounted  his  chariot,  an  object  unequalled  for  terror, 
harnessed  to  it  the  four  fiery  steeds, 
horses,  ferocious,  courageous,  and  swift; 
their  teeth  full  of  slaver,  their  bodies  flecked  with  foam, 
trained  in  galloping,  and  knowing  how  to  trample  under- 
foot. 
[And  Marduk  stood  up  in  it],  the  battle-hero, 
[looking  toward  right  and  toward]  left,  making  up  his 

mind, 
[*  *  *]  armed  with  furor; 
Majestic  halo  surrounded  his  head. 
He  made  straight  for  her  and  drew  nigh  unto  her. 
Where  Tiamat  the  furious  stood,  he  set  his  face. 
Upon  his  lip  [*  *  *]  holding 
a  magic  herb  he  grasped  with  his  finger. 
At  that  hour  the  gods  beheld  him  with  admiration. 
The  gods,  his  fathers,  beheld  him  with  admiration,  indeed. 
Nearer  drew  Bel  (the  lord)  anxious  to  fight  Tiamat, 
and  seeking  to  capture  Kingu,  her  spouse. 
When  the  latter  saw  him  he  became  distraught, 
his  mind  deranged,  his  actions  confused. 
And  the  gods,  his  helpers,  who  marched  by  his  side. 
Beheld  their  leader's  distress,  and  they  looked  terrified. 
Tiamat  [alone]  stood  ground,  turned  not  her  neck, 
with  her  lip  uttering  taunts  of  defiance: 
"  Against  the,  O  Bel,  the  gods  take  up  the  fight. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION  293 

Where  they  are  gathered,  there  is  now  thy  place." 

But  Bel  brandished  the  "  storm,"  his  great  weapon, 

and  reproached  Tiamat  for  what  she  had  done  (saying): 

"  Below  thou  art  mighty,  yea!  lofty  above. 

But  thy  heart  drove  thee  to  stir  up  destructive  fight, 

un[til  the  gods?  forsook]  their  fathers  for  thee. 

Around  thee  thou  hast  gathered]    them,   shown  hatred 

[to  us?]. 
Chosest  Kingu  to  be  thy  husband  and  spouse, 
and  bestowedst  upon  him  divine  power. 
*  *  *]  thou  hast  planned  strife. 
To  the  gods,  my  fathers,  thou  didst  evil. 
Thus,  then,  may  thy  host  be  tied,  thy  weapons  be  bound. 
Stand!  I  and  thou,  come  let  us  fight!" 
But  Tiamat,  when  she  heard  these  words, 
acted  like  one  possessed,  and  she  lost  her  senses. 
Tiamat  shrieked  out  wild  and  loud. 

Trembling,  her  whole  frame  shook  through  and  through. 
She  uttered  a  spell,  recited  an  incantation. 
And  also  the  gods  of  battle  charm  their  weapons. 
Then  they  approached  one  another,  Tiamat  and  Marduk, 

the  counsellor  of  gods. 
To  the  fight  they  rushed,  advanced  to  the  battle. 
Bel  spread  out  his  net  and  inclosed  her. 
The  evil  wind,  following  him,  he  let  loose  against  her; 
and  when  Tiamat  opened  her  mouth  to  swallow  (the  evil 

wind), 
Marduk  quickly  drove  in  the  evil  wind,  ere  she  could  shut 

her  lips. 
The  terrible  winds  inflated  her  stomach; 
she  lost  her  reason;  gasping,  still  wider  she  opened  her 

mouth. 
He  seized  his  lance  and  plunged  it  down  into  her  stomach. 
Her  entrails  he  pierced,  cut  through  her  heart. 
He  overpowered  her  and  put  an  end  to  her  life, 
threw  down  her  carcass  and  stood  upon  it. 
Now  that  Tiamat,  the  leader,  had  been  slain, 
her  host  was  broken  up,  her  throng  was  scattered. 


294       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

The  gods,  her  helpers,  who  marched  by  her  side, 
trembled  and  feared,  turned  backward  to  flight, 
and  tried  to  escape,  to  save  their  lives. 
But  they  were  surrounded,  so  that  none  could  escape; 
Bel  took  them  captive  and  broke  their  weapons. 
They  were  caught  in  the  net,  they  sat  in  the  snare, 
and  filled  with  their  wailing  the  whole  wide  world. 
Punishment  they  had  to  endure,  and  were  held  in  prison. 
The  eleven  creatures,  also,  which  she  had  created  with 

terrors, 
a  horde  of  demons,  which  had  marched  by  her  side, 
he  placed  into  fetters,  and  [tied]  their  hands; 
and  he  trampled  under  his  feet  their  resistance. 
Moreover,  Kingu,  who  had  been  great  above  all  of  them, 
he  bound  and  did  unto  him  like  unto  the  [other]  gods  (?), 
tore  away  from  him  the  Tablets  of  Destiny,  which  hung  on 

his  breast; 
With  his  own  seal  he  sealed  them  and  laid  them  upon  his 

own  breast. 
Now,  after  Marduk  had  conquered  and  defeated  his  foes, 
had  brought  to  naught  the  arrogant  adversary, 
thus  fully  completing  An-shar's  victory  over  his  enemy, 
and  attaining  the  purpose  of  Nudimmud,  the  valiant  Mar- 
duk 
strengthened  his  hold  on  the  gods  that  were  captive; 
and  returned  to  Tiamat,  whom  he  had  defeated. 
Bel-Marduk  trampled  down  the  body  of  Tiamat; 
With  his  merciless  weapon  he  smashed  open  her  skull, 
cut  through  the  veins  of  her  blood, 
and  let  the  north  wind  carry  it  far  away.* 
His  fathers  beheld  this,  they  rejoiced  and  were  glad; 
presents  and  gifts  they  brought  unto  him. 
And  Bel  was  appeased,  as  he  gazed  on  her  dead  body.* 
Her  corpse  he  divided,  and  wonderful  feats  he  performed. 
He  cut  her  into  two  halves,  like  a  flat  (?)  fish. 
He  took  one  half  and  made  the  heavenly  dome, 
pushed  bars  before  it,  and  stationed  watchmen. 
'  ^ee  preceding  note.  •  Of  Tiamat. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION 


29s 


He  gave  them  command  not  to  let  out  its  waters;* 
then  he  passed  through  the  heavens,  inspected  the  regions 

(thereof), 
and  in  front  of  apsu  he  established  the  "home  of  Nudimmud. 
Bel  measured  out  the  structure  of  apsu; 
and  corresponding  to  it  he  fashioned  Esharra.* 
The  great  structure  Esharra,  which  he  had  built  as  heaven, 
he  made  Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea  to  inhabit  as  their  own  city. 

Here  ends'  the  fourth  tablet  of  the  creation-account; 
immediately  upon  this  follows,  according  to  the  custom  of 
the  Babylonian  scribes,  the  first  line  of  Tablet  V: 

"  He  established  the  stations  for  the  great  gods!  " 

Then  follows  a  colophon,  which  states  that  there  were 
one  hundred  and  forty-six  lines  of  the  fourth  tablet  (of  the 
series  entitled): 

"  Long  since,  when  above   (the  heaven)   had   not  been 
named," 

and,  that  the  tablet  was  written  by  Na'id-Marduk,  in  hon- 
our of  Nebo,  his  lord,  for  the  preservation  of  his  life;  he 
wrote  and  placed  it  in  E-zida,  the  Temple  of  Nebo  in  Bor- 
sippa. 

He  ^  established  the  stations  for  the  great  gods. 

The  stars,  like  unto  them,*  and  the  constellations  he  fixed; 

He  ordained  the  year,  and  marked  oflf  its  sections. 

Twelve  months  he  divided  by  three  stars. 

And  when  the  days  of  the  year  he  had  fixed  according  to 

the  stars, 
he  established  the  station  of  Nibir  '  to  mark  their  bounds, 
that  none  (of  the  days)  might  deviate,  nor  be  found  lacking. 
The  mansions  of  Bel  and  of  Ea  ®  he  established  with  him.'' 

•  Too  freely  ?  •  The  earth. 

'  Marduk.  *  The  stations  of  the  great  gods. 

'  Jupiter,  the  planet  of  Marduk,  close  to  the  ecliptic. 

'  That  is,  the  north  pole  and  the  south  pole. 

'  The  planet  of  Marduk. 


296       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

He  opened  great  gates  on  both  sides  (of  the  firmament), 

made  strong  the  bolts  on  the  left  and  on  the  right. 

In  the  midst  (of  heaven)  he  placed  the  zenith. 

Nannar,  the  moon-god,  he  brought  forth,  and  intrusted 
the  night  to  him; 

placed  him  there,  as  the  luminary  of  night,  to  mark  off  the 
days; 

month  after  month,  he  fashioned  him  as  full  moon  (saying) : 

"  At  the  beginning  of  the  moon,  when  evening  begins, 

let  thy  horns  shine,  to  mark  off  the  heavens; 

On  the  seventh  day  make  half  the  disk, 

stand  perpendicular  *  on  the  Sabbath,  with  thy  first  half; 

when  at  sunset  thou  risest  on  the  horizon, 

stand  opposite  her  [on  the  fourteenth]  in  brightest  splen- 
dour. 

From  the  fifteenth]  on,  approach  again  the  course  of  the 
sun. 

On  the  twenty-first]  stand  perpendicular  again  to  the  sun. 

From  the  twenty-second]  on  *  *  *  to  seek  his  course. 

On  the  twenty-eighth  to  the  sun]  approach  and  hold  judg- 
ment *  *  *" 

[Only  one  half  of  a  single  line  of  Tablet  VI  is  preserved.] 

Of  Tablet  VII  these  lines  are  preserved: 

God  Zi  *  *  *   [they  called  him  ^  in  the  second  place] 

who  fixed  *  *  * 

their  circuit  *  *  * 

Not  be  forgotten  among  men  [this  deed  *  *  *] 

God  Zi-azag'  they  called  him  in  the  third  place;  he  who 

causes  purification. 
"  God  of  favourable  wind,  lord  of  acceptance  (of  prayers) 

and  mercy; 
who  bringeth  forth  abundance  and  fulness,  granteth  rich 

blessings; 
who  increaseth  everything  that  is  small; 

'  As  regards  the  earth  or  the  sun — that  is,  the  meridian — in  which  the 
moon  stands  at  sunset  when  in  her  first  or  last  quarter. 
'  Marduk.  •  God  of  pure  life. 


THE  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION 


297 


whose  mild  breath  we  feel  amid  storm  and  distress." 

Thus  may  they  speak,  glorify,  and  worship  him! 

God  Mir-azag*  fourthly,  let  them  thus  praise  him: 

"  Lord  of  pure  incantation,  restorer  of  dead  to  life, 

showing  mercy  even  unto  the  vanquished  gods,  removing 

the  yoke  from  the  gods,  his  adversaries ; 

who  in  their  place  (?)  created  mankind; 

the  merciful  who  hath  power  to  grant  life. 

May  this  word  concerning  him  remain  and  be  never  for- 
gotten 

among  mankind,  whom  he  hath  created! " 

God  Tu-azag,^  fifthly,  thus  be  his  enchanting  word  in  their 
mouths; 

who  destroys  the  wicked  with  his  pure  incantation. 

God  Sha-zu,^  who  knows  the  heart  of  the  gods,  who 
searches  the  innermost; 

who  does  not  allow  the  wicked  to  make  his  escape  from 
him; 

who  summons  the  council  of  the  gods  and  rejoices  their 
heart; 

who  subdues  the  rebels  *  *  * 

and  causes  justice  to  prevail  *  *  * 

who  resistance  [overthrows]   *  *  * 

God  Zi-si,*  who  sends  forth  the  hurricane 

and  lets  loose  the  storm  and  the  winds. 

God  Shug-kur,^  sixthly,  who  destroys  the  [enemies] 

who  brought  to  naught  their  compacts  and  agreements, 

and  destroys  all  the  wicked  *  *  * 

[The  rest  of  the  obverse  is  broken  off,  as  well  as  the 
beginning  lines  of  the  reverse,  which  commences  with  line 
four.] 

*  *  *]  star,  [who  riseth  on  the  firmament  of  heaven]. 

Because  he  split  asunder  Tiamat  without  resting, 

let  his  name  be  Nibiru,  who  defeated  Kirbish-Tiamat. 

'  God  of  the  shining  crown.  '  God  of  pure  incantation. 

»  Knower  of  hearts.  *  Destroyer  of  aggressors. 

»  Exterminator  of  all  the  wicked. 


298        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

May  he  direct  the  course  of  the  stars  of  heaven, 

and  pasture  Hke  sheep  all  the  gods! 

Let  him  take  hold  of  Tiamat;  let  him  oppress  and  shorten 

her  life. 
For  future  ages,  forever  and  ever. 
Be   this   in   force   and   do   not   cease,    remain    in    force 

forever. 
Because  he  created  heaven  and  fashioned  the  earth. 
Father  Bel  called  his  name  "  Lord  of  the  Universe." 
The  names  of  the  Igigi,^  he  received  all  of  them. 
When  Ea  heard  this,  his  heart  rejoiced, 
that  to  his  son  such  lofty  names  had  been  given. 
"  Ea  shall  be  his  name,  like  mine. 
May  he  deliver  all  my  binding  commands, 
May  he  transmit  all  my  commandments!  " 
Fifty  names  they  gave  him,  according  to  the 
great  gods,  fifty  names,  and  enhanced  his  power. 

The  leader  (king)  shall  hearken  to  this  and  proclaim  it 

again, 
the  wise  and  the  prudent  likewise  take  it  to  heart. 
Let  father  relate  it  to  son,  and  speak  constantly  thereof. 
May  the  shepherd  and  leader  open  his  ears, 
that  he  may  rejoice  in  the  lord  of  gods,  in  Marduk! 
His  land, -then,  may  prosper;  he  himself  remain  sound; 
his  word  be  constant  and  firm,  his  order  obeyed; 
his  command  none  shall  change,  not  even  a  god. 
But  if  he  looks  angry,  not  turning  (in  mercy)  his  neck, 
no  god  can  rival  his  anger  or  wrath, 
the  long-suffering  *  *  * 
[who]  sin  and  evil  before  him  [*  *  *]. 

'  The  host  of  heaven's  gods. 


SECOND  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  CREATION  299 

A  SECOND  BABYLONIAN  ACCOUNT 
OF  THE  CREATION 

British  Museum,  No.  82-5-22,  1048 

Not  yet  had  been  built  the  sacred  *  house  of  the  gods 

in  a  sacred  ^  place; 
No  reed  was  planted,  no  tree  yet  grown; 
No  brick  was  laid,  no  brick  building  reared; 
No  house  had  been  built,  no  city  yet  founded ; 
No  city  had  been  built,  no  dwelling  yet  prepared. 
Nipur  was  not  yet  built,  E-kur  '^  not  yet  erected; 
Erech  was  not  yet  built,  E-anna*  not  yet  erected. 
The  ocean  was  not  yet  formed,  Eridu  *  not  yet  built. 
The  frame  of  the  sacred  house  of  the  gods  had  not  yet  been 

erected. 
The  world  was  all  one  sea; 
At  length  there  was  a  movement  in  the  sea, 
Eridu  was  erected,  E-sagila^  was  built; 
E-sagila  in  the  midst  of  the  ocean, 
where  the  god  Lugal-dul-azaga  ®  dwells. 
Babylon  was  built,  E-sagila  was  completed. 
The  gods,  the  Anunnaki,'^  he  ®  created  at  the  same  time, 
and  made  supreme  the  glorious  city,  the  seat  dear  to  their 

hearts. 
Marduk  constructed  an  inclosure  around  the  waters; 
he  formed  dust  and  heaped  it  up  at  the  side  of  the  inclosure, 
to  make  a  dwelling  for  the  gods,  dear  to  their  heart. 
He  created  mankind. 
The  goddess  Aruru,®  together  with  him,  created  the  seed 

of  mankind. 

'  Literally,  pure.  '  Temple  of  Bel  at  Nippur. 

'  Temple  of  Ishtar  at  Erech. 

*  A  city  sacred  to  Ea  at  the  mouth  of  the  Persian  Gulf  ;  the  text  here 
refers  to  a  sort  of  heavenly  Eridu,  corresponding  to  the  earthly  one. 

'  As  a  rule  the  name  for  the  great  Marduk  temple  in  Babylon,  but  here 
very  likely  meaning  a  temple  in  Eridu  (cf.  line  13). 

'  =  the  god  of  the  glorious  abode  =  Ea. 

'  Some  subordinate  divine  beings.  '  Marduk. 

'  Literally,  the  potter  ;  also  mentioned  in  Nimrod-epic,  Tablet  II,  q.  v. 


300        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

He  created  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  living  creatures  of 

the  dry  land. 
Tigris  and  Euphrates  he  formed,  and  set  them  in  their 

places, 
and  gave  them  good  names, 
soil  and  grass?],  the  marsh  plant  and  the  reed,  and  the  forest 

he  planted; 
the  verdure  of  the  field  he  produced; 
the  lands,  the  marsh  plant,  the  reed  also; 
the  wild  cow  and  her  young;  the  young  wild  ox; 
the  ewe  and  her  young,  the  lamb  of  the  fold; 
meadows  and  forests  also; 

the  goat  and  mountain-goat  he  also  brought  forth. 
Then  Marduk  filled  in  a  terrace  by  the  shore  of  the  sea, 
[*  *  *]  as  he  had  not  done  before. 
|-*  *  *-|  j^g  created. 

[The  plant  he  caused  to  sprout] ,  and  trees  he  raised. 
[Bricks]  he  fashioned  in  their  place. 
[*  *  *]  brick  buildings  he  made; 
[houses  he  erected],  cities  he  built. 
[Cities  he  erected],  dwellings  he  reared. 
[Nippur  he  built],  E-kur,  the  temple,  he  erected. 
[Erech  he  built],  E-anna,  the  temple,  he  erected. 

[The  reverse  of  this  tablet  does  not  refer  to  the  creation 
of  the  world.] 


ANOTHER   ACCOUNT    OF    THE    FIGHT 
BETWEEN   MARDUK  AND  TIAMAT 

Rm.  282. 

The  text  begins  with  a  description  of  the  terror  that 
had  befallen  all  mankind  at  the  approach  of  Tiamat,  who 
appears,  however,  as  a  male  monster. 

The  cities  sighed,  the  people  [lamented], 
Men  uttered  groans,  [and  wailed  piteously]. 


FIGHT  BETWEEN  MARDUK   AND  TIAMAT         301 

But  for  their  lament  there  was  no  [help], 

For  their  grief  there  was  no  [comfort]. 

Who  was  that  [great]  dragon? 

Tiamat  was  the  [great]  dragon! 

Bel  in  heaven  had  shaped  [his  form]. 

Fifty  kasbu  is  his  length,  one  kasbu  [his  breadth?] 

Half  a  rod  (?)  his  mouth,  one  rod  (?)  [his  *  *  *] 

Then  follows  a  description  of  the  dragon,  who  wal- 
lows in  the  water  and  lashes  his  tail.  Even  the  gods  in 
heaven  are  afraid.  They  bow  down  and  cry  out  asking 
who  would  slay  the  monster,  and  deliver  the  broad  earth, 
and  make  himself  king.  God  Suh  was  appealed  to  in  vain. 
We  do  not  know  who  eventually  consented  to  do  battle 
with  the  dragon,  but  it  is  probable  that  in  this  account 
Marduk  was  again  the  hero.  The  end  of  the  tablet  has 
fortunately  been  preserved.  Here  we  find  the  god  setting 
out  to  do  battle,  while  one  of  the  other  gods  cries  out  to 
him  in  encouragement: 

"  Stir  up  the  cloud,  the  storm,  [and  the  hurricane] . 

Set  before  thee  the  seal  of  thy  life  *  *  * 

and  kill  the  dragon!  " 

He  stirred  up  the  cloud,  the  storm,  [and  the  hurricane], 

set  before  him  the  seal  of  his  life, 

and  he  slew  the  dragon  *  *  * 

For  three  years  and  three  months,  day  and  [night] 

The  blood  of  the  dragon  flowed  *  *  * 


The  best,  and,  we  may  safely  say,  the  only  reliable  trans- 
lations thus  far  published  are  those  of  Professors  Peter 
Jensen  (of  Marburg),  Heinrich  Zimmern  (of  Breslau), 
Friedrich  Delitzsch  (of  Berlin),  and  H.  Winckler  (of  Ber- 
lin). To  the  English  reader  these  four  translations  are  not 
very  accessible.  Here  are  the  titles:  "  Das  babylonische 
Weltschopfungsepos,"  von  Friedrich  Delitzsch  [des  XVII. 
Bandes  der  Abhandlungen  der  philologisch-historischen 
Classe  der  Konigl.  Sachsischen  Gesellschaft  der  Wissen- 
schaften,  No.  II],  Leipsic,  1896,  160  pp. — "  Kosmologie 


302        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

der  Babylonier,"  von  Peter  Jensen,  Strassburg,  1890  (pp. 
261-364);  and  by  the  same  author,  "Assyrisch-babylonische 
Mythen  und  Epen,"  I.  Halfte  (="Keilinschriftliche  BibU- 
othek,"  vi.  Band,  i,  Teil),  BerHn,  1900. — Heinrich  Zim- 
mern's  excellent  translation  is  published  as  an  appendix 
(pp.  401-420)  of  Hermann  Gunkel's  "  Schopfung  und 
Chaos  in  Urzeit  und  Endzeit,"  Gottingen,  1895. — "  Keilin- 
schriftliches  Textbuch  zum  Alten  Testament,"  herausg. 
von  H.  Winckler,  Leipsic,  1892,  pp.  88-98. 

Of  English  translations  we  have  that  of  A.  H.  Sayce  in 
the  "  Records  of  the  Past,"  new  series,  vol.  i,  1888,  pp. 
122-146. — L.  W.  King,  "  First  Steps  in  Assyrian,"  Lon- 
don, 1898,  pp.  122-160;  and  "  Babylonian  Religion  and 
Mythology,"  London,  1899,  pp.  53-120. — George  A.  Bar- 
ton "  Tiamat,"  in  the  "  Journal  of  the  American  Orien- 
tal Society,"  vol.  xv,  pp.  3-37. — C.  J.  Ball,  "  Light  from 
the  East,  or  the  Witness  of  the  Monuments,"  London, 
1899,  pp.  1-2 1. — ^Theophilus  G.  Pinches  published  "A 
Babylonian  Duplicate  of  Tablets  I  and  II  of  the  Creation 
Series  "  in  the  "  Babylonian  and  Oriental  Record,"  vol. 
iv,  pp.  25-33  (January,  1890).  —  We  also  refer  to  Pro- 
fessor Morris  Jastrow,  Jr.,  "  Religion  of  Babylonia  and 
Assyria  "  ("  Handbooks  on  the  History  of  Religions  "), 
Boston:  Ginn  &  Co.,  1898;  Chapter  XXI.  "The  Cos- 
mogony of  the  Babylonians,"  pp.  407-453,  and  724-727; 
as  well  as  to  the  articles  of  Dr.  Alfred  Jeremias  on  "  Mar- 
duk  "  in  Roscher's  "  Ausfiihrliches  Lexikon  der  Griech. 
und  Romischen  Mythologie,"  vol.  ii,  cols.  2340-2372 
(1895);  and  of  Heinrich  Zimmern  and  T.  K.  Cheyne  on 
"  Creation  "  in  Cheyne  and  Black's  "  Encyclopaedia  Bib- 
lica,"  vol.  i,  cols.  938-954. 

On  the  second  Babylonian  Account  of  the  Creation,  see 
especially  Theophilus  G.  Pinches  in  "The  Independent," 
New  York  (1890),  and  the  "  Academy  "  (London),  No- 
vember 29,  1890,  pp.  508,  509;  "  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asi- 
atic Society,"  1891,  pp.  393-408;  "Records  of  the  Past," 
new  series,  vol.  vi,  pp.  107-1 14,  and  "  Transactions  of  the 
Ninth  International  Congress  of  Orientalists,"  vol.  ii,  pp. 


FIGHT   BETWEEN   MARDUK   AND   TIAMAT 


303 


190-198.    It  is  a  mixture  of  Creation-  and  Culture-myth. 
The  Creation  story  is  only  given  in  allusions. 

The  so-called  "  Cuthean  Account  of  the  Creation," 
translated  by  Professor  Sayce,  in  the  "  Records  of  the 
Past,"  new  series,  vol.  i,  pp.  147-153,  is  by  no  means  a 
creation  account,  as  has  been  shown  by  Professor  Heinrich 
Zimmem  in  the  "  Zeitschrift  fiir  Assyriologie,"  vol.  xii,  pp. 
317-330.  It  relates  to  the  mythological  history  of  a  king 
of  early  Babylonia,  and  is  not  a  cosmogony.  See  also  Jen- 
sen, "  Assyrisch-babylonische  Mythen  und  Epen,"  pp. 
290-299. 


SHORTER  BABYLONIAN  LEGENDS 


THE  LEGEND  OF  ZU,  THE  STORM-BIRD 

I.   THE  THEFT  OF  THE  TABLETS  OF  DESTINY 

A  LSO  the  commands  of  all  the  gods  he  determined.* 
/\     he  *  *  *,  he  touched,  he  sent  Zu. 
■*    *■  As  he  *  *  *  had  completed,  he  approached  Belj 
and  the  brightness  of  the  pure  waters  was  before  him. 
His  eyes  beheld  the  insignia  (?)  of  Bel's  supremacy, 
the  crown  (royal  cap)  of  his  sovereignty,  and  the  robe  of 

his  godhead. 
Zu  gazed  also  at  the  Tablets  of  Destiny,  belonging  to  the 

god. 
And  as  he  saw  the  father  of  the  gods,  the  god  of  Duranki, 
eager  desire  for  the  supremacy  took  possession  of  his  heart. 
As  Zu  saw  the  father  of  the  gods,  the  god  of  Duranki, 
eager  desire  for  the  supremacy  took  possession  of  his  heart. 
"  I  will  take  the  tablet  of  destiny  of  the  gods,  even  I ; 
and  I  will  direct  all  the  decrees  (oracles)  of  the  gods; 
I  will  [establish]  a  throne,  and  dispense  commands, 
I  will  rule  over  all  the  spirits  of  Heaven!  " 
And  after  his  heart  had  planned  the  attack, 
he  awaited  the  dawn  of  the  morning  at  the  entrance  to  the 

palace  (of  the  gods)  which  he  had  seen. 
Now,  when  Bel  had  washed  himself  in  the  pure  waters, 
had  ascended  his  throne,  and  placed  upon  his  head  the 

crown, 
Zu  seized  with  his  hand  the  Tablets  of  Destiny; 

'  Several  lines  at  the  beginning  broken  off. 
304 


THE    LEGEND   OF   ZU,  THE   STORM-BIRD 


30s 


he  took  Bel's  supremacy,  the  power  of  giving  commands. 

Then  Zu  fled  away  and  [turned?]  mountainward. 

Grief  was  poured  out,  and  cries  resounded  (in  the  palace 

of  the  gods). 
Their  father  and  decider,  their  [leader?]  Bel, 
poured  out  his  rage  through  the  palace; 
and  the  goddesses  turned  [to  him?]  at  his  command  (?). 
Then  Anu  opened  his  mouth  and  said, 
spoke  unto  the  gods,  his  children: 
"  Who  will  vanquish  Zu  and  thus 
make  great  his  name  among  the  nations  of  all  the  lands?  " 

They  called  their  leader,  the  son  of  Anu. 

And  Anu  spoke  unto  him,  gave  him  the  command. 

Adad,  the  leader,  they  called,  the  son  of  Anu; 

And  Anu  spoke  unto  him,  gave  him  this  command: 

"  Thou  mighty,  terrible  Adad;  let  not  thy  attack  be  re- 
pulsed! 

Kill  Zu  with  thy  weapon! 

Then  thy  name  shall  be  great  in  the  assembly  of  the  great 
gods! 

Thou  shalt  not  have  a  rival  among  the  gods  thy  brothers! 

Shrines  shall  exist  and  be  built  [unto  thee]; 

and  in  the  four  quarters  [of  the  world]  shall  be  established 
thy  habitation! 

Yea,  even  in  E-kur  shall  enter  thy  habitation! 

Thou  shalt  be  brilliant  above  the  gods,  and  mighty  shall  be 
thy  name!  " 

But  Adad  answered  to  this  command, 

and  spoke  thus  to  his  father  Anu: 

"  My  father,  who  can  go  to  the  mountain,  that  is  inacces- 
sible? 

Who  among  the  gods,  thy  children,  is  like  unto  Zu? 

He  has  seized  with  his  hand  the  Tablets  of  Destiny, 

has  taken  Bel's  supremacy,  the  power  of  giving  command. 

Zu  has  fled  away  and  [has  turned?]  mountainward. 

The  word  of  his  mouth  has  [now  the  same  power?]  as 
[thus  far]  that  of  the  gods  of  Duranki. 


3o6       ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

He  [that  was  mighty  before?]  is  now  considered  as  dirt. 
But  [to]  his  [(Zu's)  command  bow  even]  the  gods." 
Thereupon  Anu  told  Adad  not  to  go. 

And  they  called  her,  the  daughter  of  Anu. 

And  Anu  spoke  unto  her,  gave  her  the  command. 

Ishtar  they  called  the  daughter  of  Anu, 

And  Anu  spoke  unto  her,  gave  her  this  command: 

"  Thou  mighty,  terrible  Ishtar;  let  not  thy  attack  be  re- 
pulsed! 

Kill  Zu  with  thy  weapon! 

Then  thy  name  shall  be  g^eat  in  the  assembly  of  the  great 
gods! 

Thou  shalt  not  have  a  rival  among  the  gods  thy  brothers! 

Shrines  shall  exist  and  be  built  [unto  thee] ; 

and  in  the  four  quarters  [of  the  world]  shall  be  established 
thy  habitation! 

Yea,  even  in  E-kur  shall  enter  thy  habitation! 

Thou  shalt  be  brilliant  above  the  gods  and  mighty  shall  be 
thy  name! " 

But  Ishtar  answered  to  this  command, 

and  spoke  thus  to  her  father  Anu: 

"  My  father,  who  can  go  to  the  mountain,  that  is  inacces- 
sible? 

Who  among  the  gods,  thy  children,  is  like  unto  Zu? 

He  has  seized  with  his  hand  the  Tablets  of  Destiny, 

has  taken  Bel's  supremacy,  the  power  of  giving  command. 

Zu  has  fled  away  and  [has  turned?]  mountainward. 

The  word  of  his  mouth  has  [now  the  same  power?]  as 
[thus  far]  that  of  the  gods  of  Duranki. 

He  [that  was  mighty  before?]  is  now  considered  as  dirt. 

But  [to]  his  [(Zu's)  command]  bow  even  the  gods." 

Thereupon  Anu  told  Ishtar  not  to  go. 

And  they  called  Bara,  the  child  of  Ishtar. 
And  Anu  spoke  unto  him,  gave  him  this  command: 
"Thou  mighty,  terrible  Bara;  let  not  thy  attack  be  re- 
pulsed! 


THE   LEGEND   OF  ZU,  THE  STORM-BIRD  307 

Kill  Zu  with  thy  weapon! 

Then  thy  name  shall  be  great  in  the  assembly  of  the  great 
gods! 

Thou  shalt  not  have  a  rival  among  the  gods,  thy  brothers! 

Shrines  shall  exist  and  be  built  [unto  thee] ; 

and  in  the  four  quarters  [of  the  world]  shall  be  established 
thy  habitation! 

Yea,  even  in  E-kur  shall  enter  thy  habitation ! 

Thou  shalt  be  brilliant  above  the  gods  and  mighty  shall  be 
thy  name! " 

But  Bara  answered  to  this  command, 

and  spoke  thus  to  his  father  Anu: 

"  My  father,  who  can  go  to  the  mountain,  that  is  inacces- 
sible? 

Who  among  the  gods,  thy  children,  is  like  unto  Zu? 

He  has  seized  with  his  hand  the  Tablets  of  Destiny, 

has  taken  Bel's  supremacy,  the  power  of  giving  commands. 

Zu  has  fled  away  and  [has  turned?]  mountainward. 

The  word  of  his  mouth  has  [now  the  same  power?]  as  [thus 
far]  that  of  the  gods  of  Duranki. 

He  [that  was  mighty  before?]  is  now  considered  as  dirt. 

But  [to]  his  [(Zu's)  command]  bow  even  the  gods." 

Thereupon  Anu  told  Bara  not  to  go. 

2.   THE  CAPTURE  OF  ZU  (?) 

Lugal-banda  [went  away  *  *  *]  to  a  mountain,  a  distant 

mountain. 
To  the  mountain  of  Sabu  [*  *  *] 

Mother  does  not  live  with  him  and  [*  *  *]  does  not  [*  *  *] 
Father  does  not  live  with  him  and  [*  *  *]  does  not  [*  *  *] 

with  him. 
A  nobleman,  his  acquaintance,  [does  not  live  with  him]. 
His  trusty  friend  [does  not  say]  a  word  [to  him]. 
In  his  own  heart  he  [considered?]  these  words: 
"  That  bird  [I  will  treat]  as  he  deserves! 
Zu  [I  will  treat  as]  he  deserves! 
His  wife  [I  will  treat  as  she  deserves?]. 
The  wife  of  Zu,  the  son  of  Zu 


3o8       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

I  will  permit  to  sit  down  at  meal." 

En(n)a  [and]  Ninguen(n)a 

he  (then)  brought  back  from  the  mountain. 

The  wise  woman,  the  mother,  who  had  done  what  was 

necessary; 
Siris,  the  wise  woman,  the  mother,  who  had  done  what 

was  necessary. 
Her  mixing-vessel  is  of  shining  lapislazuli. 
Her  washtub  is  of  pure  silver  and  gold. 
In  mead  stands  jubilation. 
In  mead  sits  rejoicing. 

Upon  his  head  he  placed  the  [*  *  *]  of  wood, 
he  put  upon  his  head  the  [*  *  *]  and  the  [*  *  *] 
and  rose  up  from  the  nest  of  Zu. 


THE  LEGEND  OF  DIBBARA, 
THE  PLAGUE  GOD 

To  the  fifth  he  said,  "  Like  a  wind  sweep  [***]!  " 
The  sixth  he  sent  out,  "  Look  above  and  below  and  spare 

none! " 
The  seventh  a  water  *  *  *  he  laid  upon  him  *  *  *. 
After  Anu  had  thus  decreed  the  fate  of  all  these  seven. 
He  gave  them  to  Dibbara,  the  mighty  among  the  gods 

[saying] :  "  They  shall  go  at  thy  side! 
When  the  *  *  *  of  the  people  living  in  their  places  strikes 

thv  *  *  * 
and  thy  heart  longs  to  make  slaughter  of  them, 
to  kill  the  black-haired  race  and  fell  the  beasts  of  the  field, 
these  shall  be  thy  ferocious  weapons  and  they  shall  go  at 

thy  side! 
When  they  are  ferocious,  their  weapons  (shall)  speak, 
and  say  unto  Dibbara:  '  Rise  up  and  stand! 
Shall  [we  become?]  as  a  feeble  old  man,  shut  up  in  the 

city;  shall  we  become  like 
a  small  child,  a  small  babe,  shut  up  in  the  house? 


THE  LEGEND  OF  DIBBARA,  THE  PLAGUE  GOD  309 

Shall  we  be  like  one  who  goes  not  to  the  field? 

Shall  we  be  held  back  like  an  asinnu-priest  (?) 

just  as  if  we  had  never  known  a  battle,  had  ever  feared 

beheading? 
Shall  he  that  goes  upon  the  field  of  manly  (fight?)  become 

like  an  asinnu-priest  ?  '  " 
[Some  twenty-five  lines  are  broken  off.] 

Thou  seizest  *  *  * 

The  *  *  *  of  Bel  *  *  *  thou  didst  lay,  and 

"  *  *  *  my  heart,"  he  says. 

*  *  *  for  the  lurker  (at)  his  gate  (full  of)  the  blood  of 

man  and  girl, 
thou  didst  establish  his  habitation. 
Those  children  of  Babylon  were  as  birds  and  thou  wert 

their  trapper. 
Thou  didst  catch  them  in  the  net,  thou  didst  seize  them, 

and  destroy  them, 
Thou  didst  leave  the  city  and  didst  go  into  the  country. 
Thou  becamest  a  lion  in  appearance  and  enteredst  into  the 

palace. 
And  when  the  army  saw  thee,  their  weapons  were  made 

ready. 
The  heart  of  the  governor,  the  avenger  of  Babylon,  grew 

full  of  wrath, 
and  he  sent  out  his  warriors  as  if  one  sends  out  to  gather 

spoil  from  the  enemy. 
Let  evil  overtake  the  leader  of  the  army. 
"  In  that  city  into  which  I  will  send  thee,  O  man, 
thou  shalt  fear  no  warrior,  nor  be  afraid  of  any  man; 
but  thou  shalt  kill  at  the  same  time  the  small  and  the  great. 
Let  not  even  the  suckling  babe,  the  little  one,  escape. 
Make  spoil  of  the  collected  wealth  of  Babylon," 
The  army  of  the  king  assembled  and  entered  the  city. 
The  bow  was  drawn,  the  dagger  unsheathed. 
"  Thou  didst  unsheath  the  weapons  even 
of  the  temple  servants  (?),  the  caretakers(?)  of  Anu  and 

of  Dagan. 


3IO       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

But  their  blood  thou  didst  make  to  flow  over  the  square  of 
the  city  like  the  waters  of  a  torrent. 

Thou  didst  cut  open  their  entrails  and  didst  make  the  river 
carry  (them)  away." 

Marduk,  the  great  lord,  saw  (this)  and  cried  out,  "  Woe!  " 

His  heart  was  seized  [with  fear?] 

A  curse,  from  which  there  is  no  escape,  was  put  into  his 
mouth: 

"  The  *  *  *  of  the  river  shall  not  drink  its  water." 

"  Thou  didst  desire  *  *  * 

*  *  *  the  city  of  time  of  yore,  of  the  lord  of  the  countries 

[which?] 

the  storm-flood  has  not  [destroyed?]. 

Against  the  will  of  Shamash  (the  Sun-god)  thou  didst  de- 
stroy its  walls,  nor  pull  down  *  *  * 

Bedouins  and  their  wives  have  thrown  firebrands  (?) 

into  Erech,  the  seat  of  Anu  and  Ishtar, 

the  city  of  hussies,  hierodules,  and  prostitutes, 

to  whom  Ishtar  paid  for  the  man  and  gave  him  as  their 
own. 

There  gather  in  E-anna  eunuchs  and  isinnu-priests  (cina- 
edi?), 

whom  Ishtar,  in  order  to  frighten  the  people,  has  turned 
into  hermaphrodites  (?); 

the  carriers  of  dagger  and  knife,  of  steel  and  of  flint; 

who,  to  rejoice  the  heart  of  Ishtar,  eat  *  *  * 

Thou  didst  appoint  over  them  a  governor,  austere  and  un- 
friendly of  appearance, 

who  oppressed  them  greatly  and  changed  their  laws. 

Ishtar  grew  angry  and  became  enraged  against  Erech; 

she  sent  (against  it)  the  enemy  and  he  swept  it  away  as 
water  does  grain. 

*  *  *  on  account  of  E-ut-gal,  which  had  been  destroyed, 
unceasing  is  the  lam  [ent  *  *  * 

The  enemy  whom  she  did   send   is  not   willing  to   re- 
turn." 
The  great  god  answered  (and  said): 


THE  LEGEND  OF  DIBBARA,  THE  PLAGUE  GOD  311 

"  Durilu  has  [been  turned?]  to  ruins. 

The  people  who  lived  therein  thou  didst  break  like  reeds. 

******* 

Also  me  didst  thou  not  leave  (alone?). 
To  the  Bedouin  [and  his  wife  didst  thou  deliver  Erech??]. 
And  I,  even  I,  should  not  deliver  a  judgment  of  righteous- 
ness for 
my  city  Durilu,  nor  decide  a  decision  of  righteousness  (?). 
Should  I  not  issue  command  (and  order)  and  *  *  *  (?)  " 
[Eighteen  lines  are  broken  off.] 

"  *  *  *  I  Yvill  make  great  and  *  *  * 

the  son]  I  will  kill  and  [his]  father  [I  will  slay?] 

After  that  I  will  kill  the  father  and  [*  *  *] 

who  built  the  house  and  placed  [into  it]  the  (wedding) 

couch. 

This  I  will  do,  and  then  I  shall  be  satisfied  *  *  * 

The  day  when  my  fate  takes  me  away  (and)  I  lie  down  on 
r*  *  *"| 

I  will  kill  him  myself  and  ruin  the  house  *  *  * 

Then  it  shall  remain  a  ruin  and  I  shall  [give  it]  to  another." 

"  Powerful  Dibbara,  thou  didst  [kill]  the  just  one; 

and  the  wicked  thou  didst  [kill] . 

Him,  who  committed  sin  against  thee,  thou  [didst  kill] ; 

and  him,  who  did  not  commit  sin  against  thee,  thou  [didst 
kill]. 

Him,  who  did  roast  the  meal-offering  of  the  god,  thou 
[didst  kill] ; 

the  wicked  and  him  who  (unlawfully)  keeps  the  slave  be- 
longing to  the  king,  thou  [didst  kill]." 

"  The  splendour  of  Shul-pa-e  I  will  throw  down, 

and  I  will  [cut]  the  tree  at  its  root,  so  that 

its  fruit  may  not  grow  luxuriously. 

I  will  destroy  the  foundations  of  the  wall,  so  that  its  tipper 

part  will  tumble  down. 
I  will  go  to  the  dwelling  of  the  king  of  the  gods  and 

[bind?]  him." 


312       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

And  when  the  powerful  Dibbara  heard  him  say  so, 

the  words,  which  he  had  spoken  to  Ishum,  were,  like  fine 
oil,  agreeable  unto  him; 

and  the  powerful  Dibbara  spoke  thus: 

"  Not  shall  the  sea-country  have  mercy  with  the  sea-coun- 
try; nor  Mesopotamia  with  Mesopotamia; 

The  Assyrian  shall  not  spare  the  Assyrian,  nor  the  Elamite 
the  Elamite; 

nor  the  Cossaean  the  Cossaean; 

nor  the  Bedouin  the  Bedouin; 

nor  the  dweller  in  the  north  him  who  dwelleth  in  the  north; 

nor  the  LuUubaean  the  Lullubaean; 

nor  one  country  the  (other)  country,  nor  one  house  the 
(other)  house,  nor  one  man  his  fellow-man; 

nor  brother  his  brother;  but  all  shall  slay  one  another. 

And  then  shall  rise  up  the  Accadian  and 

shall  throw  down  [them  all]  and  strike  dead  their  totality." 

And  the  powerful  Dibbara  says  unto  Ishum,  who  walks  be- 
fore him,  these  words: 

"  Go,  Ishum,  and  do  exactly  as  thou  didst  say,  according  to 
the  desire  of  thy  heart." 

Ishum  turned  his  face  toward  the  mountain  Sharshar;    ■ 

and  the  seven,  the  powerful,  who  have  no  rival, 

swept  on  behind  him. 

And  when  the  powerful  arrived  at  the  mountain  Sharshar, 

he  lifted  up  his  hand,  seized  the  mountain, 

made  Mount  Sharshar  like  the  surrounding  lowland, 

and  broke  down  the  vines  (that  were  growing)  in  the  Ha- 
shurru-forest. 

After  Dibbara  had  become  pacified  *  *  * 

All  the  gods  bowed  down  to  him  and  were  af  [raid  of  him?] 

All  the  Igigi  and  Anunnaki^  went  [before  him?]. 

Dibbara  opened  his  mouth  and  said  to  [them?] : 

"  Take  heed,  ye  all,  of  my  words  and  hearken  unto  me! 

I  had  devised  evil  on  account  of  former  sins. 

My  heart  was  angered,  and  I  destroyed  mankind, 

'  The  spirits  of  heaven  and  of  the  deep. 


THE   LEGEND   OF   DIBBARA,  THE  PLAGUE   GOD    313 

like  a  hired  shepherd  who  fetched  the  leader  from  out  of 
the  stable; 

like  one  who,  though  he  has  not  planted  the  orchard,  per- 
sists in  cutting  it  down; 

like  one  who  spares  (??)  neither  the  just  nor  the  unjust, 
but  kills  [both]. 

From  the  mouth  of  the  roaring  lion  they  do  not  snatch 
the  prey. 

[Sixteen  mutilated  lines  follow  here.] 

Also  to  the  magnates  of  the  land  of  Accad,  thou  shalt 
[show?]  his  power. 

[His]  one  (or)  seven  offsprings  thou  shalt  [*  *  *]  like 
r*  *  *"| 

Thou  shalt  turn  his  cities  into  deserts  and  his  mountain 

[into  arable  land]. 
Thou  shalt  bring  his  rich  booty  as  spoil  to  Shu-an-na. 
Thou  shalt  pacify  the  gods  of  the  country,  who  had  become 

angry. 
Then  the  field  shall  prosper  and  the  corn  shall  grow  again. 
Then  the  mountains  [shall  yield  again]  their  riches,  the  sea 

its  [abundance]. 
The  field,  that  had  been  devastated  [shall  be  green  again?]. 
The  road  [*  *  *]. 
The  house  [*  *  *]." 

Years  without  number  the  terrible  splendour  of  [Dibbara], 
the  great  lord,  [had  endured]. 

For  Dibbara  was  angry,  and  to  overwhelm  the  lands,  all  of 
them, 

he  had  set  his  mind. 

But  Ishum,  his  counsellor,  pacified  him  and  he  abandoned 
[his  wrath].  • 

The  word  of  Ishum,  who  walks  before  Dibbara,  was  pleas- 
ing to  him, 

but  all  the  gods  were  afraid  of  him. 

And  thus  spoke  Dibbara,  the  powerful: 

"  Whosoever  shall  praise  that  song,  may  abundance  be 
bestowed  upon  his  shrine! 


314 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


But  whosoever  throws  it  into  oblivion,  shall  not  smell  the 
(sweet  odour  of)  incense! 

Whosoever  shall  magnify  my  name,  shall  rule  the  four  quar- 
ters of  the  world! 

Whosoever  shall  proclaim  the  terror  of  my  valour, 

shall  never  find  a  (worthy)  opponent! 

The  singer  who  chants  it  (aloud)  shall  not  die  in  the  pesti- 
lence, 

and  unto  the  king  and  the  noble  his  speech  shall  be  well- 
pleasing! 

The  scribe,  who  learns  it  (by  heart),  shall  escape  from  his 
enemy,  and  shall  be  honoured  in  [*  *  *]  ! 

In  the  temple  of  the  people,  where  continually  my  name 
is  proclaimed, 

I  will  open  his  ears  (i.  e.,  I  will  give  him  wisdom)! 

Shall  I,  Dibbara,  be  angry  with  the  house  where  this  tablet 
is  set, 

and  shall  all  the  seven  cause  destruction?     [No!]. 

The  dagger  of  pestilence  shall  not  approach  it;  immunity 
shall  rest  upon  it! 

May  (the  tablet  containing  this)  song  be  always  set  up; 
may  it  endure  forever! 

May  all  the  lands  give  ear  and  fear  my  valour! 

May  the  people  of  all  dwellings  behold  and  magnify  my 
name! " 


ADAPA   AND   THE    SOUTH-WIND 

Wisdom,  a  prudent  and   [intelligent  mind  was  given  to 

Adapa?]. 
His  command  like  the  command  of  Anu  stands  forever. 
Ea  granted  him  also  a  wide  ear  (i.  e.,  understanding),  so 

that  he  could  perceive  the  formations  of  the  land. 
He  granted  him  wisdom,  but  he  did  not  give  him  eternal 

life. 
At  that  time  and  in  those  years  the  all-wise  son  of  Eridu, 


ADAPA  AND  THE   SOUTH-WIND 


315 


Ea,  created  him  among  mankind  as  (his)  son; 
the  all-wise,  whose  command  none  dares  to  withstand; 
the  prudent,  the  very  intelligent  among  the  Anunnaki; 
the  bright,  the  pure  of  hands,  the  anointed,  who  takes 

heed  of  commands, — 
With  the  bakers  he  does  the  work  of  the  baker; 
with  the  bakers  of  Eridu  he  does  the  work  of  the  baker. 
He  prepares  the  bread  and  water  for  Eridu. 
With  his  pure  hands  he  prepares  (?)  the  table, 
and  without  him  no  table  is  cleared. 
He  steers  the  boat,  and  has  charge  of  Eridu's  fishing  and 

hunting. 
The  [offspring?]  of  Ea  watches  day  after  day  the  bolt  (of 

the  gate) 
of  Eridu  from  the  chamber,  into  which  he  enters. 
At  the  fine  quay,  the  new-moon-quay,  he  once  entered  his 

sailing  boat, 
and  the  wind  blew  and  drove  on  his  boat. 
He  steered  his  boat  with  the  rudder 
into  the  wide  ocean. 

The  south-wind  blew  and  ducked  him  under. 

To  the  dwelling  of  the  fishes  *  *  *  she  made  him  sink. 

"  O  south-wind,  thou  hast  [made]  me  [swallow  of?]  thy 

foam,  as  much  as  thou  [darest?] ; 
But  I  will  break  thy  wing."    And  as  he  had  said  it, 
the  wing  of  the  south-wind  was  broken.    For  seven  days 
the  south-wind  did  not  blow  over  the  land;  and  Anu 
said  to  Ilabrat,  his  messenger: 
"  Why  has  the  south-wind  for  seven  days  not  blown  over 

the  land?  " 
His  messenger  Ilabrat  answered  him:  "  My  lord, 
Adapa,  the  son  of  Ea,  has  broken  the  wing  of 
the  south-wind."     When  Anu  heard  this  he  cried  out: 
"Help!"  stood  up  from  his  throne  (and  said):  "Let  the 

south-wind  be  brought  here!  " 
[But?]    Ea,   who    [had   insulted]    the   heaven    [through 

Adapa?], 


3i6        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

made  him  (Adapa)  *  *  *  to  wear,  clothed  him  with  a 

mourner's  garment,  and  said  to  him  [as  follows?] : 

"  Adapa,  thou  shalt  go  and  stand  before  Anu,  the  king. 

*  *  *  when  thou  arrivest  at 

heaven,  and  approach  the  gate  of  Anu, 

there  (you  will  find)  as  guards  of  the  gate  of  Anu,  Tamuz 

(and)  Gishzida;  they  will  see  thee  and  ask:  '  Man! 

why  dost  thou  look  thus,  Adapa?  for  whose  sake 

dost  thou  wear  a  mourner's  garment? '     '  Because  two 

gods  have 
disappeared  from  our  country.'    '  And,  pray,  who  are  the 

two  gods  who  have  disappeared 
from  the  country? '     '  Tamuz  and  Gishzida.'     They  will 

look  at  each  other 
and  will  be  surprised.    They  will  say  good  words 
to  Anu  (and)  a  '  friendly  face  of  Anu  they  will 
show  unto  thee.'     When  thou  enterest  the  presence  of 

Anu, 
they  will  offer  thee  '  Meat  (Bread)  of  Death.' 
Eat  not  of  it!    They  will  offer  thee  '  Water  of  Death.' 
Drink  not  of  it!     They  will  bring  thee  a  garment. 
Put   it   on!     They  will   offer   thee   oil.     Anoint   thyself 

with  it ! 
The  command  which  I  have  thus  given  thee,  neglect  not! 

the  words, 
which  I  have  spoken  to  thee,  forget  not!  "    The  messenger 
of  Anu  arrived  (who  had  said):  "  Adapa  has  broken 
the  wing  of  the  south-wind"  (to  whom  Anu  had  said): 

"  Let  him  be  brought  before  me!  " 

He  made  him  take  the  road  to  heaven,  and  Adapa  went  up 

to  heaven. 
And  as  he  arrived  at  heaven  and  approached  the  gate  of 

Anu, 
there  stood  Tamuz  and  Gishzida  at  the  gate. 
As  soon  as  they  saw  him  they  cried  out:  "  Help! 
Man!    Why  dost  thou  look  thus,  Adapa? 
For  whose  sake  dost  thou  wear  a  mourner's  garment?  " 


ADAPA  AND  THE  SOUTH-WIND 


317 


"  I  wear  a  mourner's  garment  because  two  gods  have  dis- 
appeared from  the  country." 
"  And,  pray,  who  are  the  two  gods  who  have  disappeared 

from  the  country?  " 
"  Tamuz  and  Gishzida."    They  looked  at  each  other  and 

were  surprised.     And 
when  Adapa  entered  the  presence  of  Anu 
the  king,  Anu  said,  as  he  beheld  him: 
"  Come,  Adapa!    Why  hast  thou  broken  the  wing  of 
the  south-wind?  "    Adapa  answered  thus  unto  Anu:  "  My 

lord, 
I  was  catching  fish  for  the  house  of  my  lord  in  the  midst 
of  the  sea,  when  the  south-wind  blew,  ducked  me  under,  and 
made  me  sink  to  the  dwelling  of  the  fishes."     "  In  the 

wrath  of  my  heart," 
answered  [Anu?],  "I  will  have  no  mercy  [upon  thee?]." 

But  Tamuz 
and  Gishzida  spoke  kind  words  to  Anu, 
whereupon  his  heart  became  pacified  and  was  won  over; 

(but  he  said): 
"  Why  has  Ea  revealed  to  a  sinful  man 
the  mystery  of  heaven  and  earth? 
Why  has  he  made  him  great  and  has  made  a  name  (?)  for 

him? 
And  now,  what  shall  we  do  for  him?     Bring  '  Meat  of  Life,' 
that  he  may  eat  of  it! "     And  when  they  offered  him 
"  Meat  of  Life,"  he  would  not  eat  of  it.    And  when  they 

oflfered  him 
"  Water  of  Life,"  he  would  not  drink  of  it.    But  when  they 

brought  to  him 
a  garment,  he  put  it  on;  and  when  they  oflfered  him 
oil,  he  anointed  himself  with  it. 
And  Anu  saw  what  he  was  doing,  and  he  was  astonished  at 

him,  (and  said): 
"  Come,  Adapa!    Why  didst  thou  not  eat,  why  didst  thou 

not  drink,  so  that 
therefore  you  will  not  live  (forever)  *  *  *?"     "  Ea,  my 

lord,  commanded 


3i8       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

me  thus  (saying),  '  Eat  not  and  drink  not! '  " 

"  Take  him  then,  and  lead  him  back  to  his  land! " 

*  *  *  saw  him, 

He  said  to  him,  but  he  answered  (?): 

"  Remain  seated,"  he  said  unto  him;  but  he  rose  up  and 
r*  *  *] 

Anu  was  greatly  astonished  at   the  doings  of  Ea  and 

said: 
"  Ye,  gods  of  heaven  and  earth,  as  many  as  there  are,  who 

thus  *  *  * 
and  who  will  increase  his  command  so  that  it  is  like  the 

command  of  Anu." 
Adapa  looked  up  from  the  horizon  to  the  zenith, 
and  beheld  Anu's  terrible  appearance. 

[The  rest  of  this  column  is  badly  mutilated  and  can  not 
well  be  rendered.] 


THE  STORY  OF  ETANA 

From  the  young  of  the  eagle  [the  eagle  went  forth?]. 

His  heart  prompted  the  eagle  [and  *  *  *] 

He  considered  and  his  heart  prompted  "him 

to  eat  the  young  of  his  companion  [the  serpent?]. 

The  eagle  opened  his  mouth,  and  spoke  to  his  young: 

"  I  will  eat  the  young  of  the  serpent,  the  serpent,  whose 

heart  is  [without  cares?]. 
I  will  ascend  and  spy  from  the  height  of  the  heaven, 
I  will  swoop  down  upon  the  top  of  the  tree  and  I  will  eat 

(the  serpent's?)  brood." 
One  of  the  young  birds,  endowed  with  much  wisdom,  said 

to  his  father,  the  eagle: 
"  Do  not  eat,  O  my  father!    Shall  the  net  of  Shamash  (the 

Sun-god)  catch  thee? 
Shall  the  snare  and  the  ban  of  Shamash  fall  upon  thee  and 

catch  thee? 


THE   STORY   OF  ETANA 


319 


Whoso  transgresses  the  law  of  Shamash,  from  him  Shamash 
[will  exact  revenge!]." 

But  he  did  not  hearken  to  them,  and  gave  no  heed  to  the 
word  of  his  young  one. 

He  swooped  down  and  ate  the  young  of  the  serpent. 

This  [was  done?]  in  the  middle  of  the  day,  but  the  ser- 
pent [was  away?]. 

*  *  *  carrying  his  burden  [he  came  to  his  nest  in  the 
evening] . 

[But  found]  its  nest  [empty  and  its  young  destroyed?]. 

When  the  serpent  had  come,  he  said  unto  Shamash: 

"  I  will  tell  thee  [what  has  happened  to  me?] 

To  the  eagle  *  *  * 

Then  he  spied  *  *  *  my  nest, 

my  nest  he  spied,  that  was  in  the  tree. 

Now  my  young  are  killed,  for  I  was  not  there, 

when  he  swooped  down  and  ate  them  up. 

Let    [him  now  pay  for?]   the  evil  which  he  has  done, 

O  Shamash! 
For,  Shamash,  thy  net  is  the  broad  earth 
and  thy  snare  the  distant  heaven. 
Who  has  ever  escaped  from  thy  net? 
Even  Zu,  the  worker  of  evil,  who  carries  high  his  evil  head, 

[did  not  escape]  !  " 
When  he  had  thus  listened  to  the  prayer  of  the  serpent, 
Shamash  opened  his  mouth,  and  said  to  the  serpent: 
"  Go  now,  and  take  the  road  to  the  mountain, 
I  will  get  (?)  for  thee  a  [dead]  wild  ox. 
Open  its  bowels,  and  crawl  into  its  belly, 
and  take  up  thy  dwelling  in  its  belly. 
All  kinds  of  birds  of  heaven  shall  swoop  down 
and  [will  eat  of  the  flesh?]  ; 
and  the  eagle  shall  come  with  them; 
and  not  knowing  [thy  intention  and  plot], 
he  will  seek  to  get  a  piece  of  the  flesh,  moving  swiftly  to 

and  fro, 
and  will  make  for  the  hidden  parts. 


320 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


And  when  he  has  penetrated  into  the  inner  parts,  seize  him 

by  his  wing, 
tear  off  his  wing,  his  feather,  his  pinion; 
tear  him  to  pieces  and  cast  him  into  a  pit, 
that  he  may  die  a  death  from  hunger  and  thirst." 
At  the  word  of  Shamash,  the  hero,  the  serpent  departed  and 

went  into  the  mountain. 
And  the  serpent  found  the  [dead]  wild  ox, 
opened  its  bowels  and  penetrated  into  its  belly, 
and  took  up  his  dwelling  in  its  belly. 
All  kinds  of  birds  of  heaven  swooped  down  and  ate  of  the 

flesh. 
"  But  is  the  eagle  to  suspect  the  evil  intent  and 
will  he  not  eat  of  the  meat  with  the  young  birds?  " 
The  eagle  opened  his  mouth  and  said  to  his  young: 
"  Come,  let  us  swoop  down  and  eat  of  the  flesh  of  this 

wild  ox! " 
And  one  of  the  young  birds,  endowed  with  much  wisdom, 

said  to  his  father,  the  eagle: 
"  Do  not  swoop  down,  my  father!     Suppose  there  lurks 

the  serpent  in  [the  flesh  of]  this  wild  ox! " 
But  the  eagle  [opened  his  mouth]  and  said  these  words: 

«:(£  4:  4:  :):  ;|c  Up  :):  :):  4:  :(c» 

He  did  not  hearken  to  them,  and  gave  no  heed  to  the  word 

of  his  young  one. 
He  swooped  down  and  stood  upon  the  wild  ox. 
The  eagle  examined  the  carcass,  looking  carefully  before 

and  behind  him. 
He  again  examined  the  carcass,  looking  carefully  before 

and  behind  him. 
Then,  moving  swiftly,  he  made  for  what  was  hidden  in  its 

interior. 
And  when  he  had  penetrated  into  its  interior,  the  serpent 

seized  him  by  his  wing. 
******* 

The  eagle  opened  his  mouth,  and  spoke  to  the  serpent: 
"  Haye  mercy  upon  me  and  I  will  present  thee  with  a  gift, 
such  as  a  bridegroom  gives." 


THE   STORY  OF  ETANA 


321 


The  serpent  opened  his  mouth,  and  spoke  to  the  eagle: 
"  If  I  release  thee,  Shamash  will  be  against  us  both,  as  [for- 
merly against  thee?]. 
His  wrath  against  thee  will  then  be  turned  upon  me, 
which  now,  as  a  punishment,  I  execute  on  thee." 
So  he  tore  off  his  wing,  his  feather,  his  pinion; 
he  tore  him  to  pieces  and  cast  him  into  a  pit, 
that  he  should  die  a  death  from  hunger  and  thirst. 

[But  the  eagle  did  not  die;  for  Etana,  whose  wife  could 
not  give  birth  to  a  son,  said  thus] : 

"  The  seer-priests  have  completed  my  ofiferings, 

They  have  finished  my  sacrifices,  the  joy  of  the  heart  of 

the  gods. 
My  lord,  let  now  proceed  from  thy  mouth  the  revelation, 
and  give  [me?]  the  'Plant  of  Birth '1 
Shew  me  the  '  Plant  of  Birth  '! 
Tear  out  my  offspring  [from  his  mother's  womb?]  and 

grant  me  a  son." 
And  Shamash  opened  his  mouth  and  said  to  Etana: 
"  Go,  and  take  the  road  across  the  mountain." 

[Here  he  was  to  find  the  eagle,  who  would  give  him  the 
desired  Plant  of  Birth.] 

And  the  eagle  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke  to  Shamash, 

his  lord: 

'«*         *         *         *         *         *         **         *         * 

The  young  of  a  bird  [he  shall  bring  unto  me?] 

Whatsoever  he  will  say  unto  me,  I  will  hear; 
and  whatsoever  I  shall  say  unto  him,  may  he  do! " 
And  Etana  did  as  he  was  told  by  Shamash,  the  hero. 
He  took  the  young  of  a  bird  and  went  to  the  eagle. 
The  eagle  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke  to  Etana: 
"  What  is  the  desire  that  has  brought  thee  hither?  " 
And  Etana  opened  his  mouth  (and)  said  to  the  eagle: 
"  My  friend,  give  me  the  '  Plant  of  Birth '; 
shew  me  the  '  Plant  of  Birth  '! 
21 


322 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


Tear  out  my  offspring  [from  his  mother's  womb?]  and 

grant  me  a  son. 
And  in  order  to  get  the  '  Plant  of  Birth,' 
so  that  he,  who  is  now  [inclosed  in  the  womb?]  may  come 

forth, 
Shamash,  my  lord,  said  unto  me: 
'  Go,  and  take  the  road  across  the  mountain, 
[there  thou  shalt  get?]  the  "  Plant  of  Birth.' 


tt   7   If 


On  one  occasion  the  eagle  carried  Etana  up  to  heaven. 
The  hero  clung  to  the  eagle's  wings  and  they  rose  together 
until  they  could  see  the  gates  of  heaven.    There: 

"  At  the  entrance  to  the  gate  of  Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea  we  fell 

down  worshipping. 
At  the  entrance  to  the  gate  of  Sin,  Shamash,  Adad,  and 

[Ishtar?]  we  fell  down  worshipping. 
[Four  lines  wanting.] 
A  throne  was  there  erected  and  [*  *  *] 
Beneath  the  throne  lions  were  lying  down. 
I  drew  nigh,  and  the  lions  jumped  up. 
I  became  frightened  and  trembled  *  *  *  " 
But  the  eagle  said  to  Etana: 
"  My  friend,  let  thy  countenance  brighten  up. 
Come,  let  me  carry  thee  up  to  the  heaven  of  Anu. 
Against  my  breast  lay  [thy  back?], 

upon  the  wing-feathers  (?)  of  my  pinions  lay  [thy  hands], 
upon  my  side  lay  [thy  side?]  !  " 
Against  his  breast  he  laid  [his  back?]. 
Upon  the  wing-feathers  (?)  of  his  pinions  he  laid  his  hands. 
Upon  his  side  he  laid  his  side. 
He  made  (fast)  his  hold  and  great  was  the  weight.    After 

the  eagle  had  carried 
Etana  for  two  hours,  he  said  to  him: 
"  Behold,  my  friend,  the  land,  how  it  is ! 
Look  at  the  sea  at  the  sides  of  E-kur! 
The  land  looks  [as  if  it  were]  only  a  mountain;  the  sea  has 

become 
like  a  [small  pool  of]  water." 


THE  STORY  OF  ETANA 


323 


After  the  eagle  had  carried  Etana  for  four  hours, 

he  said  to  him: 

"  Behold,  my  friend,  the  land,  how  it  is!  the  land  *  *  *  " 

After  the  eagle  had  carried  Etana  for  six  hours,  he  said  to 

him: 
"  Behold,  my  friend,  the  land,  how  it  is! 
The  sea  has  become  like  the  [water-ditch]  of  a  gardener." 
After  going  thus  up  to  the  heaven  of  Anu, 
the  eagle  and  Etana  came  through  the  gate  of 
Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea,  and  there  fell  down  worshipping 
*  *  *  the  eagle  and  Etana  *  *  * 

[Another  quite  mutilated  column  contains  a  repetition 
of  the  flight  of  Etana  and  the  eagle  to  the  heaven  of  Anu.] 

After  they  had  travelled  for  six  hours,  Etana  said  to  the 
eagle: 

"  My  friend,  I  will  not  rise  up  to  heaven;  hold  on,  that  I 
[may  return  to  earth?]." 

Etana  "  falls  down  one  double  hour,"  and  the  eagle 
flies  down  with  him;  a  second  and  a  third  double  hour  they 
go  downward  together;  both  fall  down  together  upon  the 
ground. 

The  eagle  bursts  asunder;  of  Etana  [nothing  is  left?]. 


THE    GILGAMESH    NARRATIVE 

USUALLY  CALLED 

THE   BABYLONIAN    NIMROD    EPIC 


INTRODUCTORY.— The  chief  fragments  of  the  Nitn- 
rod  epic  were  discovered  in  1854  by  Hormuzd  Rassatn 
in  the  ruins  of  Nineveh.  The  tablets,  twelve  in  number, 
belonged  originally  to  the  famous  library  of  King  Ashur- 
banipal  (668-626  b.  c),  as  the  colophons  to  the  several 
tablets  clearly  state.  The  text  has  not  yet  been  completely 
restored.  The  contents  of  these  tablets  were  first  brought 
to  light  and  translated  by  the  late  George  Smith  (f  1876), 
of  the  British  Museum,  in  his  "  Chaldean  Account  of  Gene- 
sis "  (1872).^  The  standard  edition  of  the  text,  as  far  as 
it  is  accessible  at  present,  is  that  of  Professor  Paul  Haupt, 
"  Das  Babylonische  Nimrodepos."  *  Additions  to  Part  I 
were  published  by  the  same  author  in  an  article  on  "  Ergeb- 
nisse  einer  erneuten  Collation  der  Izdubar  -Legenden."  * 
The  only  good  recent  translations  of  the  whole  epic  are 
by  Dr.  Alfred  Jeremias,  "  Izdubar-Nimrod,  Eine  alt- 
babylonische  Heldensage.  Nach  den  Keilschriftfrag^en- 
ten  dargestellt,"  *  and  by  Professor  Jensen,  pp.  1 16-273  o^ 
his  "  Assyrisch-babylonische  Mythen  und  Epen." 

'  Second  edition,  in  1880,  by  A.  H.  Sayce ;  translated  into  German  by 
Friedrich  Delitzsch  (1876). 

'  Heft  i,  1884 ;  Heft  ii,  1890 ;  vol.  iii  of  tlie  Assyriological  Library, 
edited  by  Friedrich  Delitzsch  and  Paul  Haupt. 

•Published   in   vol.    i   of   the   "Contributions   to   Assyriology,"   pp. 

94-152. 

*  Teubner,  Leipsic,  1891,  pp.  viii-73,  and  four  autograph  plates  of  text. 

324 


THE   GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE 


325 


For  text  editions  and  translations  of  the  famous  ac- 
count of  the  deluge,  being  the  eleventh  tablet  of  the  epic, 
see  the  note  prefixed  to  the  translation  of  this  tablet,  below. 

The  true  reading:  Gilgamesh,  the  Gilgamos  of  .(Elian,  in 
place  of  the  conventional  Iz-du-bar,  was  found  by  The- 
ophilus  G.  Pinches  in  1894.  On  the  Nimrod  epic  see  also 
Morris  Jastrow,  "  Religion  of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,"  pp. 
467-517,  727-730;  C.  J.  Ball,  "Light  from  the  East, 
or  the  Witness  of  the  Monuments,"  pp.  44  foil. ;  and  L.  W. 
King,  "  Babylonian  Religion  and  Mythology  "  (London, 
1899),  chap.  V,  pp.  146-177. 

TABLET  I 

Of  this  tablet  only  a  few  fragments  are  preserved.  The 
correct  beginning  of  the  first  tablet  has  been  determined 
by  Professor  Haupt.*     It  reads  thus: 

He  who  has  seen  the  history  of  Gilgamesh, 
[He  who]  knows  all  [that  has  happened  to  him] 

*  *  *  together  *  *  * 

[He  who]  has  seen  all  kinds  of  wisdom, 
[and]  knows  the  mysteries  and  has  seen  what  is  hidden, 
he  bringeth  news  dating  farther  back  [than  the  deluge?] ; 
He  has  travelled  far-distant  roads,  and  become  weary  *  *  * 
[and  now  he  has  written]  on  a  memorial  tablet  all  the  other 
things 

*  *  *  the  wall  of  Uruk-supuru  ^ 

[Lines  ten  and  eleven  are  wanting.] 

He  spoke  a  charm  which  does  not  leave  [him] 

*  *  *  the  god  who  from  distant  days  *  *  * 

So  far  page  i  of  Haupt's  text;  to  the  same  tablet,  as 
Haupt  and  Jeremias  have  pointed  out,  belongs  page  51,^ 
narrating  a  siege  of  the  city  of  Erech. 

*  *  *  his  cattle  forsook  him. 

*  *  *  he  went  down  to  the  river, 

'  See  "Contributions  to  Assyriology,"  i,  p.  102. 

'  Erech,  the  strong-walled. 

'  Page  references  in  this  translation  refer  to  Professor  Haupt's  edition. 


326       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

pushed  into  the  river  his  boat  and  covered  (it). 

*  *  *  full  of  sorrows  he  wept  bitterly. 

He  returned  (?)  to  the  city  of  Gan-gan-na,  which  the  enemy 

had  destroyed  completely. 
The  she-asses  have  trampled  down  their  foals; 
The  cows  in  madness  turn  upon  their  calves. 
And  as  the  cattle  were  frightened,  so  were  the  people. 
Like  the  doves,  the  maidens  sigh  and  mourn. 
The  gods  of  Erech,  the  strong-walled. 
Assume  the  shape  of  flies  and  buzz  about  the  streets. 
The  protecting  deities  of  Erech,  the  strong-walled, 
take  on  the  shape  of  mice  and  hurry  into  their  holes. 
Three  years  the  enemy  besieged  the  city  of  Erech; 
the  city's  gates  were  barred,  the  bolts  were  shot. 
And  even  Ishtar,  the  goddess,  could  not  make  head  against 

the  enemy. 
But  Bel  opened  his  mouth,  said 
to  Ishtar,  the  queen,  and  spoke  to  her  thus: 

[The  rest  of  the  text  is  broken  off;  traces  still  allow  to 
read  (21)  "  Babylon  the  city  of  joy"  (?).  The  death  of 
the  king  must  have  created  consternation  in  the  city,  de- 
scribed above,  so  graphically.  Then  Gilgamesh  comes  to 
the  city  as  her  saviour,  and  later  on  appears  as  her  king.] 

TABLET  II 

With  the  exception  of  Column  I  the  text  of  this  tablet 
is  preserved  almost  completely.  Gilgamesh  is  introduced 
as  the  ruler  of  Erech,  but  his  rule  soon  became  unpopular, 
since  he  compelled  all  the  young  men  of  the  city  to  enter 
his  service,  and  carried  off  the  maidens  to  his  court.  The 
parents  complained,  saying: 

Not  does  Gilgamesh  leave  the  son  to  his  father, 

nor  the  maiden  to  the  warrior,  nor  the  wife  to  her  husband. 

Their  wailing  and  lament  [is  heard  everywhere?]. 

"  Ye  gods  of  heaven,  and  thou  Bel  of  Erech, 

who  didst  bring  my  son  into  existence,  [save  us!?], 

He  (Gilgamesh)  has  not  a  rival  [in  all  the  land?] 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  327 

Thy  people  now  come  [to  thee  for  help?]. 

Gilgamesh  leaves  not  to  the  father  his  child."  Day  and 
night  [they  poured  out  their  plaint] : 

"  He  the  ruler  of  Erech  the  strong-walled. 

He  their  ruler  and 

the  strong,  the  lofty,  the  cunning  [*  *  *] 

Gilgamesh  does  not  leave  a  daughter  to  [her  mother?] 

nor  the  maiden  to  the  warrior,  nor  the  wife  to  her  hus- 
band." 

[The  gods  of  heaven]  heard  their  cry. 

They  also  cried  aloud  to  Aruru,*  the  goddess,  saying: 
"Aruru,  who  hast  created  him, 

Create  now  a  rival  (?)  to  him,  for  the  time  when  his  heart 
shall  be  [*  *  *], 

Let  them  fight  together  and  Erech  [shall  be  the  spec- 
tator?] !  " 

Upon  hearing  this  Aruru  created  in  her  heart  a  man  after 
the  likeness  of  Anu.^ 

Aruru  washed  her  hands,  took  a  bit  of  clay,  and  cast  it  on 
the  ground. 

Thus  she  created  Eabani,  the  hero,  a  lofty  oflfspring,  the 
possession  (?)  of  Ninib. 

His  whole  body  was  covered  with  hair;  he  had  long  hair 
on  his  head  like  a  woman; 

His  flowing  hair  was  luxuriant  like  that  of  the  corn-god. 

Contrary  to?]  the  custom  of  the  people  and  of  the  land,  he 
was  clothed  with  garments,  as  god  Ner;  ^ 

He  ate  herbs  with  the  gazelles. 

He  quenched  his  thirst  with  the  beasts. 

He  sported  about  with  the  creatures  of  the  water.* 

Sa-a-a-du,"  the  hunter  of  men. 

Lay  in  wait  for  him  at  the  entrance  to  the  well. 

'  See  for  this  goddess  the  second  Babylonian  creation  account,  p.  299, 
line  21.     In  company  with  Marduk  she  created  mankind. 

'  A  divine  man,  a  demigod. 

'  Called  the  son  of  the  sun  god,  the  shepherd  of  the  universe. 

*  "  This  Babylonian  '  wild  man  of  the  woods'  is  evidently  a  picture  of 
man  living  in  a  savage  state  "  (Jastrow). 

'  The  word  itself  means  "  hunter  "  ;  he  is  sent  by  Gilgamesh  into  the 
mountains  in  order  to  capture  Eabani. 


328        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

The  first,  the  second,  and  the  third  day  he  lay  in  wait  for 

him  at  the  entrance  to  the  well. 
But  when  he  saw  him  the  hunter's  face  looked  troubled, 
[beholding  Eabani  and?]  his  cattle,  and  he  returned  to  his 

home. 
*  *  *  he  was  sad,  and  moaned,  and  wailed; 
his  heart  grew  heavy],  his  face  became  clouded, 
and  sadness  [entered]  into  his  mind. 
His  face  became  like  unto  [the  distant  *  *  *  (?)] 

The  hunter,  obeying  the  command  of  Gilgamesh,  in- 
tended to  advance  against  Eabani;  but  at  the  sight  of  him 
he  drew  back  in  fear,  and  was  unable  to  catch  him. 

The  hunter  opened  his  mouth  and  said  unto  [Ea,  or  Sha- 

mash,  his  father?] : 
"  My    father,    one    hero,    going    there    [is    not    strong 

enough?]. 
In  heaven  is  *  *  * 

Like  that  of  a  Kisir  Anu  *  is  his  strength; 
he  roams  over  [all]  the  mountains; 
with  the  beasts  of  the  field  he  regularly  [feeds]. 
His  feet  are  regularly  set  toward  the  entrance  of  the  well. 
I  am  afraid  of  him,  I  do  not  dare  to  go  near  him. 
He  has  filled  up  the  pit  that  I  digged,^ 
and  has  destroyed  the  hunter's  nets  which  I  [had  spread 

over  it?]. 
From  my  hands  he  has  made  to  escape  the  cattle  and  the 

beasts  of  the  field, 
and  does  not  allow  me  to  hunt  them." 
His  father  opened  his  mouth  and]  spoke  thus  to  the  hunter: 
["  Go  and  wend  thy  way]  to  Erech,  the  city  of  Gilgamesh. 

The  fragments  of  lines  following  show  that  the  hunter 
was  to  find  there  a  tempter  called  Uchat.^  in  order  to  entice, 

'  Perhaps  a  host  or  a  man  of  Anu. 
'  In  order  to  catch  him,  like  a  wild  animal. 

»  Usually  translated,  wailing  woman  ;  by  others,  the  "ensnaring  "  the 
siren.      Buret,   in   his   famous   book,   "Syphilis   in  Ancient  Prehistoric 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


329 


with  her  assistance,  the  sensuous  Eabani,  and  bring  him  to 
Erech.  Obeying  the  advice  of  his  father,  the  hunter  goes 
to  Erech  [the  city  of  Gilgamesh]. 

Into  the  presence]  of  Gilgamesh  [stepped  the  hunter,  and 
said:] 

And  now  follows  a  repetition  of  the  same  report  of  the 
hunter  concerning  his  failure  to  capture  Eabani,  the  ad- 
dress "  my  father,"  of  course,  being  omitted.    Thereupon: 

Gilgamesh  spoke  to  the  hunter  and  said: 

"  Go,  hunter  mine,  and  take  the  ensnarer  Uchat  with  thee. 

And  when  the  beasts  come  down  to  the  well, 

then  let  her  tear  off  her  dress  and  disclose  her  nakedness. 

Eabani  will  see  her,  and  he  shall  approach  unto  her, 

and  the  cattle,  which  gather  around  him  on  the  field,  shall 
forsake  him." 

The  hunter  departed,  and  took  with  him  the  woman  Uchat. 

Together  they  proceeded  straightway,  and 

On  the  third  day  they  reached  the  appointed  field. 

There  the  hunter  and  the  ensnarer  rested  at  their  seat. 

One  day,  two  days,  they  lurked  at  the  entrance  to  the  well, 

where  the  cattle  were  accustomed  to  slake  their  thirst, 

where  the  creatures  of  the  waters  were  sporting. 

Then  [came]  Eabani,  whose  home  was  the  mountains, 

v/ho  with  gazelles  ate  herbs, 

and  with  the  cattle  slaked  his  thirst, 

and  with  the  creatures  of  the  waters  rejoiced  his  heart. 

And  Uchat,  the  enticer  of  men,  beheld  him  *  *  * 

"  Behold,  there  he  is  "  *  (the  hunter  exclaimed);  "  now  dis- 
close thy  womb, 

uncover  thy  nakedness,  and  let  him  enjoy  thy  favours. 

Be  not  ashamed,  but  yield  to  his  sensuous  lust. 

Times,"  i,  p.  82,  says :  "  The  name  of  the  hierodule  uchat  points  very 
plainly  to  the  uchet  disease,  the  syphilis  of  the  ancient  Egyptians."  The 
Uchat  was  one  of  the  sacred  women  who  were  in  the  service  of  Ishtar 
and  were  attached  to  the  ancient  temple  of  that  goddess  in  the  city  of 
Erech.  '  Eabani. 


330 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


He  shall  see  thee  and  shall  approach  unto  thee; 
Remove  thy  garment,  and  he  shall  lie  in  thine  arms; 
satisfy  his  desire  after  the  manner  of  women; 
then  his  cattle,  raised  with  him  on  the  field,  shall  forsake 

him 
while  he  firmly  presses  his  breast  upon  thine." 
And  Uchat  disclosed  her  womb,  uncovered  her  nakedness, 

and  let  him  enjoy  her  favours. 
She  was  not  ashamed,  but  yielded  to  his  sensuous  lust. 
She  removed  her  garment,  he  lay  in  her  arms, 
and  she  satisfied  his  desire  after  the  manner  of  women. 
He  pressed  his  breast  firmly  upon  hers. 
For  six  days  and  seven  nights  Eabani  enjoyed  the  love  of 

Uchat. 
And  when  he  had  sated  himself  with  her  charms, 
he  turned  his  countenance  toward  his  cattle. 
The  gazelles,  resting,  beheld  Eabani;  they  and 
the  cattle  of  the  field  turned  away  from  him. 
This  startled  Eabani  and  his  body  grew  faint; 
his  knees  became  stiff,  as  his  cattle  departed, 
and  he  became  less  agile  than  ever  before. 
And  as  he  hearkened,  he  made  a  resolve. 
He  turned  again,  in  love  enthralled,  to  the  feet  of  the  harlot, 
and  gazed  up  into  the  face  of  the  ensnarer. 
And  while  the  ensnarer  spoke,  his  ears  listened  attentively; 
and  the  siren  spoke  to  Eabani  and  said: 
"  Lofty  thou  art,  Eabani,  thou  shaft  be  like  a  god;  ^ 
Why,  then,  doest  thou  lie  down  with  the  beasts  of  the  field? 
Come,  I  will  take  thee  to  strong-walled  Erech; 
to  the  glorious  house,  the  dwelling  of  Anu  and  Ishtar, 
the  palace  of  Gilgamesh,   (the  hero)  who  is  perfect  in 

strength, 
surpassing,  like  a  mountain  bull,  men  in  power." 
While  she  spoke  thus  to  him,  he  hearkened  unto  her 
wise  speech,  and  his  heart  yearned  for  a  friend. 

•  Professor  Jastrow  calls  attention  to  the  striking  parallel  to  the  bibli- 
cal words,  "ye  will  be  like  Elohim  "  (Gen.  iii,  5),  addressed  by  the  ser- 
pent to  Adam  and  Eve. 


THE   GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


331 


And  Eabani  spoke  unto  her,  the  ensnarer: 

"  Come  then,  Uchat,  take  me,  and  lead  me 

to  the  glorious  dwelling,  the  sacred  seat  of  Anu  and  Ishtar, 

to  the  palace  *  of  Gilgamesh,  (the  hero)  who  is  perfect  in 

strength, 
surpassing,  like  as  a  mountain  bull,  men  in  power." 

Here  the  text  becomes  very  broken,  only  the  latter  half 
of  a  number  of  lines  being  preserved.  As  to  the  contents, 
this  much  may  be  said:  Eabani  intends  to  test  the  strength 
of  the  famous  hero  (Gilgamesh) — ^whose  friendship  he  de- 
sires— by  means  of  a  "  lion,  born  in  the  desert  and  powerful 
in  strength."  New  fragments  found  and  skilfully  placed 
together  by  Professor  Haupt,  have  enabled  Dr.  Jeremias 
to  partially  restore  the  following  narrative: 

The  Uchat  leads  Eabani  to  Erech.  As  they  arrived, 
the  inhabitants  of  Erech,  clothed  "  in  festive  garments," 
were  celebrating  a  festival — perhaps  the  Tammuz  festival. 
The  end  of  Col.  V  seems  to  be  a  warning  to  Eabani,  re- 
ceived in  a  dream : 

"  Gilgamesh  will  behold  [thee] . 

I  behold  [*  *  *]  his  face, 

it  glows  with  heroic  courage. 

Strength  he  possesses,  [magnificent?]  is  his  whole  body. 

His  power  is  stronger  than  thine. 

He  rests  not  [nor  tires?],  neither  by  day  nor  by  night. 

O  Eabani,  change  thy  [intention?]. 

Shamash  loves  Gilgamesh; 

Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea  are  whispering  (wisdom)  into  his  ear. 

Ere  thou  earnest  down  from  the  mountain 

Gilgamesh  beheld  thee  in  a  dream  in  Erech." 

Here  the  address  seems  to  end,  and  the  narrative  re- 
turns to  its  hero,  Gilgamesh,  who  also  had  a  dream,  and 
was  troubled  because  he  could  not  interpret  it. 

Gilgamesh  came,  to  understand  the  dream,  and 
said  to  his  mother: 

"  That  is,  Erech. 


332        ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"  My  mother,  I  dreamed  a  dream  in  my  nightly  vision-. 
The  stars  of  heaven,  like  Anu's  host,  fell  upon  me  *  *  *  " 

The  fragments  of  Col.  VI  contain  another  dream,  the 
subject  of  which  is  likewise  Eabani  and  his  adventures 
with  the  ensnarer  Uchat.  The  fragments  indicate  that  the 
mother  advised  her  son  to  make  friendship  with  Eabani, 
the  giant. 

TABLET   III 

A  great  and  important  factor  in  the  subsequent  ad- 
ventures of  Gilgamesh  is  the  fact  that  Eabani  becomes  the 
friend  and  companion  of  the  hero.  Two  fragments,  pub- 
lished on  pages  14  and  15  of  Professor  Haupt's  edition,  are 
supposed  by  Dr.  Jeremias  to  have  belonged  to  Cols.  Ill 
and  IV  of  this  tablet.  The  former  seems  to  be  an  address 
to  a  woman  (the  Uchat?): 

*  *  *  the  gods  let  thee  enter 

*  *  *  forsaken  was 

*  *  *  the  consort  *  *  * 

*  *  *  and  he  saw  it  alone, 

and  he  relieved  his  heart  and  spoke  to  his  friend. 

*  *  *  a  dream  I  dreamed  in  my  night's  sleep, 
[The  stars?]  of  heaven  fell  upon  the  earth. 
[Frightiened?]  I  stood  there. 

*  *  *  his  face  became  disturbed 

*  *  *  like  lion's  claws  were  his  nails 

*'  *  *  the  dream?]   strengthened  me  *  *  * 

The  second  fragment  was  a  dialogue  between  Sha- 
mash,  the  sun  god,  and  Eabani,  in  consequence  of  which 
Eabani's  "  angry  heart  became  quieted."  It  seems  that 
Shamash  induced  Eabani,  who  is  anxious  to  return  to  his 
mountain  home,  to  remain.  The  Uchat  again  plays  a 
prominent  role,  and  we  hear  of  the  promise  to  Eabani  of 
royal  honours,  the  friendship  and  brotherly  love  of  Gil- 
gamesh.    Says  Shamash: 


THE  GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE  333 

"  Come,  and  on  a  fine,  grand  couch, 

on  a  fine  couch  he  •  will  let  thee  recline. 

He  will  place  thee  upon  a  couch,  a  seat  to  the  left.'' 

The  kings  of  the  earth  shall  kiss  thy  feet. 

The  people  of  Erech  shall  whine  before  thee  *  *  * 

and  the  nations  shall  work  for  thee. 

*  *  *  after  thee  shall  be  carried,  whatever  there  be 

*  *  *  in  the  midst  thereof  he  shall  encamp." 

Eabani  listened  to  the  word  of  Shamash,  the  warrior  hero, 

*  *  *  his  angry  heart  became  quieted. 

A  continuation  of  this  tablet  Dr.  Jeremais  believes  to 
have  found  on  page  87  of  Haupt's  edition.  Here  Gil- 
gamesh  promises  to  Eabani  precisely  the  same  that  Sha- 
mash promises  on  page  15  (see  above).  The  gods  have  a 
purpose  in  view  in  bringing  about  friendship  between  Ea- 
bani and  Gilgamesh.  The  fragments  of  Tablets  IV  and  V 
give  us  the  key  to  it.  They  relate  the  battle  of  the  city 
of  Erech  against  the  Elamitic  despot  Humbaba,  ending  in 
the  death  of  the  latter  and  the  enthronement  of  Gilgamesh 
as  King  of  Erech.  The  gods,  being  deeply  interested  in 
the  destruction  of  Humbaba  and  the  end  of  the  rule  of  the 
hostile  god  Humba,^  take  part  in  the  fight.  It  is  evident 
that  this  poetic  narrative  is  simply  the  mythical  representa- 
tion of  a  great  national  upheaval,  by  means  of  which  an 
Elamitic  dynasty  was  overthrown  and  a  Babylonian  rule 
established. 

TABLET  IV 

is  represented  by  only  a  few  small  fragments,  which,  how- 
ever, enable  us  to  see  that  the  tablet  describes  the  prepara- 
tion for  the  capture  of  the  fortress  of  the  Elamitic  king, 
Humbaba.  These  two  tablets  (IV  and  V)  then  contain 
the  historic  kernel  of  the  narrative  of  the  epic.  According 
to  Dr.  Jeremias,  Tablet  IV  contained  something  like  this: 
Col.  I.  Eabani  stands  before  the  king  of  the  gods  (Mar- 
duk?),  speaking  probably  of  Humbaba,  whom  he  and  Gil- 

•  Gilgamesh.  '  No  doubt  a  seat  of  honour.  '  An  Elamite  god. 


334 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


gamesh  intended  to  kill,  and  whose  corpse  vultures  (?)  may 
devour;  they  asked  the  god  to  be  favourable  to  their  fight. 

We  did  look  after  thee,  O  king  [of  the  gods?]. 
Now  look  thou  also  after  us. 

Gilgamesh  then  advises  Eabani  to  go 

To  the  lofty  palace  of  the  great  queen,  who  knoweth  all. 

Thereupon  both  go  to  the  great  prophetess,  who  is  de- 
scribed in  Col.  II,  her  breast  ornaments  and  her  crown 
being  especially  mentioned.  After  this  the  narrative  con- 
tinues as  follows: 

[Before]  Shamash  he  sacrificed  a  smoke-offering, 

poured  out  a  drink-offering; 

lifted  up  before  Shamash  his  hand,*  (praying): 

"  Why  hast  thou  disquieted  the  heart  of  Gilgamesh? 

Now  thou  hast  taught  him,  and 

a  far  road  he  travels  unto  Humbaba. 

An  unknown  fight  he  is  about  to  enter. 

To  an  unknown  war  he  is  about  to  set  forth. 

From  the  day  that  he  goeth,  until  he  returneth  again, 

until  he  comes  to  the  (splendid)  cedar  wood, 

until  he  shall  have  killed  Humbaba  the  despot, 

all  the  many  evils  which  shall  befall  him,  shall  ruin  him. 

On  the  day  when  thou  *  *  * 

The  end  of  Col.  II  narrates  the  preparation  for  the  great 
fight. 

The  forces  of  the  country  assembled  together; 
the  army  completed  its  preparations; 
and  the  heroes  put  on  their  armour. 

Then  the  two  friends  set  out  together.  Col.  V  opens 
with  these  words: 

In  order  that  the  cedar  wood  remain  intact,  Bel  ^  has 
made  it  a  terror  for  the  people. 

'  That  is,  in  prayer,  said  of  Eabani. 

'  Tliere  is  meant  here  either  the  Elamitic  god  Humba  or  the  old  Baby- 
lonian god  Bel,  who,  as  we  see  in  Tablet  XI,  delighted  in  terrorizing  people. 


THE   GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  335 

The  roaring  of  Humbaba  was  like  that  of  a  storm  cyclone; 
his  mouth  was  (full  of)  blasphemy,  his  breath  (killing?) 

like  hot  wind; 
*  *  *  hears  a  roaring  in  the  forest; 
whosoever  descends  into  his  park. 
In  order  that  the  cedar  forest  remain  intact,  Bel  has 
made  it  a  terror  for  the  people. 

Whosoever  enters  it,  pestilence  (?)  will  overtake  him. 
And  Gilgamesh  spoke  unto  Eabani,  and  said: 

Plates  57  and  58  Dr.  Jeremias  assigns  to  the  last  column 
of  Tablet  IV.     Gilgamesh  recounts  to  Eabani 

a  favourable  dream, 
a  splendid  dream, 

in  which  he  saw  the  corpse  of  Humbaba.     Then  they 
set  out  on  their  way  in  the  morning; 

every  twenty  double  leagues  they  took  a  meal ; 

every  thirty  double  leagues  they  took  a  rest. 

Before  Shamash  they  dug  a  hole. 

Then  Gilgamesh  went  up  to  *  *  * 

and  poured  his  sacrificial  meal  into  the  hole  (saying) : 

"  Mountain,  bring  a  dream  unto  Eabani! 

Let  him  see  dream-visions,  O  Shamash." 

Then  they  go  to  sleep.     About  midnight  Gilgamesh 
awakes,  arises,  and  speaks  to  his  friend  Eabani: 

"  My  friend,  hast  thou  called  me?  " 

Then  he  tells  him  of  a 

third  dream  that  he  had  seen. 

The  dream  that  I  dreamed  was  very  terrible  (?); 

heaven  thundered,  earth  quaked; 

day  grew  dark,  darkness  came  up; 

lightning  set  in,  fire  flared  up 

sated  [with  destruction]  and  filled  with  death. 

Then  suddenly  the  light  darkened,  the  fire  was  quenched 


336        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

*  *  *  fell  down,  turned  into  smoke  *  *  *  " 
Eabani  heard  this  dream  and  said  to  him: 

[The  rest  of  this  tablet  is  broken  away.] 


TABLET  V 

Col.  I.  The  heroes  are  in  the  sacred  forest,  surrounding 
the  stronghold  of  Humbaba.  They  had  apparently  forced 
open  its  gate: 

There  they  stood,  lofty  arose  the  forest,  and 

(astonished)  they  gazed  at  the  height  of  the  cedars 

and  at  the  entrance  of  the  cedar  wood, 

where  Humbaba  was  wont  to  walk  with  lofty  steps. 

Ways  were  laid  out  and  paths  well  kept. 

They  saw  the  cedar  hill,  the  dwelling  of  gods,  the  sanctuary 

of  Ernini. 
In  front  of  the  hill  (mountain)  a  cedar  stood  of  great 

splendour, 
fine  and  good  was  its  shade,  filling  with  gladness  (the 

heart?). 

The  remainder  of  the  column  is  broken  off,  but  it  prob- 
ably gave  a  further  description  of  the  palace  and  its  sur- 
roundings. 

Page  27  contains  fragments  of  an  address  by  Gilgamesh 
to  Eabani  in  which  again  is  mentioned 

The  corpse  to  be  devoured  by  the  vultures. 

In  Cols.  II  and  III  (pp.  25  and  28,  and  perhaps  also 
pp.  74  and  86)  the  heroes  recount  their  former  glorious 
deeds,  a  favourable  indication  for  the  success  of  their  im- 
minent battle  with  Humbaba.  Of  the  other  columns  only 
a  fragment  of  the  closing  lines  of  Col.  V  is  preserved  (p. 
26),  where,  in  the  last  line,  the  "  head  of  Humbaba  "  is 
mentioned,  a  fact  which  proves  that  the  preceding  lines 
contained  an  account  of  the  fight  and  slaying  of  Hum- 
baba. Immediately  upon  this  line  follow,  according  to  the 
custom  of  Babylonian  scribes,  two  lines,  one  giving  the  first 


THE   GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  337 

line  of  the  next  (VI)  tablet,  and  the  other  stating  that  it 
was  the  V  tablet  of  the  whole  series,  the  words  of  the  first 
line  of  Tablet  I  being  used  as  "  catchword  "  for  the  whole 
epic.  Both  served  as  a  guide  for  the  reader  of  the  whole 
series. 

TABLET  VI 

narrates  the  celebration  of  the  victory  of  Gilgamesh,  and 
his  repulse  of  Ishtar's  love  advances  (Haupt,  pp.  42-50). 

He  cleansed  his  weapons,  he  polished  his  arms. 

He  took  off  the  armour  that  was  upon  him.    He  put  away 

his  soiled  garments  and  put  on  clean  raiment; 

clothed  himself  with  his  ornaments,  put  on  his  diadem  (?). 

Gilgamesh  placed  upon  his  head  the  crown  and  put  on  his 

diadem  (?). 
To  win  the  favour  and  love  of  Gilgamesh,  Ishtar,  the  lofty 

goddess  desired  *  (and  said  unto  him) : 
"  Come,  Gilgamesh,  be  thou  my  spouse. 
Give,  O  give  unto  me  thy  manly  strength. 
Be  thou  my  husband,  let  me  be  thy  wife, 
and  I  will  set  thee  in  a  chariot  (embossed)  with  precious 

stones  and  gold, 
with  wheels  made  of  gold,  and  shafts  of  sapphires  (?). 
Large  kudanu-lions  thou  shalt  harness  to  it. 
Under  sweet-smelling  cedars  thou  shalt  enter  into   our 

house. 
And]  when  thou  enterest  into  our  house 
Thou  shalt  sit  upon?]  a  lofty  throne,  and  people  shall  kiss 

thy  feet; 
kings  and  lords  and  rulers  shall  bow  down  before  thee. 
Whatever  mountain  and  country  produces,  they  shall  bring 

to  thee  as  tribute. 

*  *  *]  thy  sheep  shall  bear  twin-ewes. 

*  *  *]  mules  they  shall  bring  as  tribute. 

Thy  [majesty?]  shall  sit  upon  a  chariot  that  is  splendid, 
drawn?]  by  a  span  that  has  no  equal." 

'  Literally,  she  lifted  up  her  eyes.  J 


338        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

But  Gilgamesh  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke  unto  her; 
said  unto  the  lofty  goddess  Ishtar: 

The  beginning  lines  of  his  speech  are  almost  lost,  only 
a  few  fragments  being  preserved.  Gilgamesh  refused  the 
proffered  love  of  Ishtar,  reminding  her  that  all  her  former 
lovers  have,  come  to  grief  through  her,  and  said  that  he 
was  not  willing  to  share  their  fate. 

"  Where  is  thy  husband  Tammuz,  who  was  to  be  forever? 
What,  indeed,  has  become  of  the  allallu-bird  *  *  *? 
Well,  I  will  tell  thee  plainly  the  dire  result  of  thy  co- 
quetries. 
To  Tammuz,  the  husband  of  thy  youth, 
thou  didst  cause  weeping  and  didst  bring  grid  upon  him 

every  year. 
The  allallu-bird,  so  bright  of  colours,  thou  didst  love; 
But  its  wing  thou  didst  break  and  crush, 
so  that  now  it  sits  in  the  woods  crying:  '  O  my  wing! ' 
Thou  didst  also  love  a  lion,  powerful  in  his  strength, 
seven  and  seven  times  didst  thou  dig  a  snaring  pit  for  him. 
Thou  didst  also  love  a  horse,  pre-eminent  in  battle, 
but  with  bridle  (?),  spur,  and  whip  thou  didst  force  it  on, 
didst  force  it  to  run  seven  double-leagues  at  a  stretch. 
And  when  it  was  tired  and  wanted  to  drink,  thou  still  didst 

force  it  on, 
thereby  causing  weeping  and  grief  to  its  mother  Si-li-li. 
Thou  didst  also  love  a  shepherd  of  the  flock  *  *  * 
who  continually  poured  out  incense  before  thee, 
and,  for  thy  pleasure,  slaughtered  lambs  day  by  day. 
Thou  didst  smite  him,  and  turn  him  into  a  tiger, 
so  that  his  own  sheep-boys  drove  him  away, 
and  his  own  dogs  tore  him  to  pieces. 
Thou  didst  also  love  a  farmer,  a  gardener  of  thy  father, 
who  continually  brought  unto  thee  dainties, 
and  daily  adorned  thy  table  for  thee. 
Thine  eye  thou  didst  cast  on  him  and  turn  his  mind, 

saying: 
'  Oh,  my  farmer  boy,  let  us  enjoy  thy  manly  strength. 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


339 


Let  thy  hand  *  come  forth  and  take  away  my  virginity  '  (?). 

But  the  farmer  spoke  unto  thee  and  said: 

*  Me! — ^what  is  this  that  thou  askest  of  me? 

Mother,  thou  hast  not  baked,  and  I  will  not  eat; 

The  food  that  I  shall  eat  is  bad  and  bitter, 

and  it  is  covered  with  cold  and  numbness.'  ^ 

And  when  thou  didst  hear  such  words, 

thou  didst  smite  him  and  change  him  into  a  cripple(?)  ^ 

And  didst  thus  compel  him  to  lie  on  a  couch, 

so  that  he  could  no  more  rise  up  from  his  bed. 

And  now  thou  wouldst  also  love  me;  but  like  unto  them  I 

would  fare." 
When  Ishtar  heard  such  words 
she  became  enraged,  and  went  up  into  heaven, 
and  came  unto  Anu  [her  father],  and 
To  Antum  (her  mother)  she  went,  and  thus  spoke  (unto 

them) : 
"  My  father,  Gilgamesh  has  insulted  me; 
Gilgamesh  has  upbraided  me  with  my  evil  deeds, 
my  deeds  of  evil  and  of  violence." 
And  Anu  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke — 
said  unto  her,  the  mighty  goddess  Ishtar: 
"  Thou  shalt  not  remain  so  disconsolate, 
even  though  Gilgamesh  has  upbraided  thee  with  thy  evil 

deeds, 
thy  deeds  of  evil  and  of  violence." 
And  Ishtar  opened  her  mouth  and  said, 
she  spoke  unto  Anu,  her  father: 
"  My  father,  create  [for  me]  a  heaven-bull." 

The  following  seventy  lines  have  come  down  in  a  very 
mutilated  condition;  and  the  meaning  can  only  be  sur- 
mised.    As  Dr.  Jeremias  has  ingeniously  pointed  out,  the 

■  Probably  a  euphemism  for  phallus. 

'  These  three  lines  must  have  an  ithyphallic  meaning,  rejecting 
Ishtar's  advances  to  him,  as  line  69  implies.  The  word  "mother"  used 
by  the  farmer  (?)  in  addressing  the  goddess  has  well  been  compared  to  the 
use  of  the  same  word  in  Russia. 

•  Others,  a  servant  or  a  dwarf. 


340        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

lines  remind  us  of  the  threat  of  Gilg^mesh,  spoken  before 
the  ocean  palace  (Tablet  X,  Col.  I),  and  especially  of  the 
analogous  conditions  found  in  the  account  of  the  "  Descent 
of  Ishtar  into  the  Netherworld,"  where  the  courageous 
goddess  in  her  wrath  forces  entrance  to  the  Netherworld. 
As  she  threatened  there,  so  now  here,  in  heaven,  she  would 
smash  everything,  if  her  will  and  wish  is  not  granted. 
Anu,  her  father,  though  hesitating,  is  forced  to  accede  and 
creates  the  heaven-bull.  And  now  Ishtar  breaks  out  in 
these  words:  "  I  will  have  revenge."  The  account  of  the 
fight  of  the  two  heroes,  Gilgamesh  and  Eabani,  against  the 
heaven-bull  is  almost  completely  lost.  Lines  122  and  123 
appear  to  say: 

They?]  hunted  him  and  Eabani  [attacked?]  the  heaven- 
bull, 
*  *  *  and  grasped  him  by  his  heavy  tail. 

On  an  old  Babylonian  cylinder  representing  the  fight 
we  see  the  bull  standing  on  its  hind  feet,  Eabani  holding 
the  monster  by  its  head  and  tail,  while  Gilgamesh  plunges 
the  dagger  into  its  heart.  We  can  also  gather  from  the 
remains  of  the  lines  that  three  hundred  heroes  took  part 
in  the  fight.  After  the  heroes  had  killed  the  bull  and  had 
thus  satisfied  their  hearts,  they  brought  unto  Shamash,  the 
sun  god,  a  thank  offering.     The  narrative  then  continues: 

Then  Ishtar  went  up  to  the  wall  of  Erech,  the  strong- 
walled; 

she  uttered  a  piercing  cry  and  broke  out  into  a  curse,  (say- 
ing): 

"  Woe  to  Gilgamesh,  who  thus  has  grieved  me, 

and  has  killed  the  heaven-bull." 

But  Eabani,  hearing  these  words  of  Ishtar, 

tore  out  the  right  side  of  the  heaven-bull,^ 

and  threw  it  into  her  face,  (saying) : 

"  And  thus  I  will,  indeed,  defeat  thee; 

'  Parts  of  the  right  side  of  the  animal  were  usually  reserved  for  sacri- 
ficial purposes.     Eabani  here  adds  insult  to  injury. 


THE  GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE 


341 


and  I  will  do  unto  thee  even  as  I  have  done  to  him;  ^ 

I  will  hang  its  heart(?)  upon  thy  side,  forsooth." 

Then  Ishtar  gathered  her  followers,  that  ruin  men, 

the  hierodules  and  the  sacred  prostitutes. 

Over  the  right  side  of  the  heaven-bull  she  wept  and  la- 
mented. 

But  Gilgamesh  assembled  the  people,  and  all  his  work- 
men.^ 

The  workmen  admired  the  size  of  its  horns. 

Thirty  minas  of  precious  stones  was  their  value; 

half  of  an  inch  (?)  in  size  was  their  thickness  (?). 

Six  measures  of  oil  they  both  could  hold. 

For  the  anointing  of  his  god  Lugal-tur-da '  he  dedi- 
cated it. 

He  brought  the  horns  and  hung  them  up  in  the  shrine  of 
his  lordship. 

Then  they  washed  their  hands  in  the  river  Euphrates, 

took  the  road,  and  set  out  (for  the  city), 

and  rode  through  the  streets  of  the  city  of  Erech. 

The  people  of  Erech  assembled  and  looked  with  astonish- 
ment [at  the  heroes?]. 

Gilgamesh  then  spoke  to  the  servants  (?)  of  [his  palace?] 

and  cried  out  unto  them,  (saying): 

"  Who  is  glorious  among  the  heroes? 

Who  shines  among  the  men?  " 

"  Gilgamesh?]  is  glorious  among  the  heroes, 

Gilgamesh?]  shines  among  the  men!  " 

[Lines  204  to  206  are  lost.] 

and  Gilgamesh  held  a  joyful  feast  in  his  palace. 
Then  the  heroes  slept,  stretched  out  upon  their  couches. 
And  Eabani  slept,  and  saw  a  vision  in  his  sleep. 
He  arose  (in  the  morning)  and  "  solved  "  the  dream, 
and  spoke  unto  Gilgamesh  thus: 

"  My  friend,  wherefor  have  the  great  gods  thus  taken 
counsel?  " 

'  That  is,  as  I  did  unto  the  heaven-bull. 

'  Or  his  faithful  followers  (?),  as  in  Tablet  XI.  '  Shamash. 


342       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

The  last  line  of  the  sixth  tablet  represents,  no  doubt,  the 
beginning  of  the  next  (the  seventh)  tablet.  This  line  is 
followed  as  usual  by  the  colophon,  thus: 

The  sixth  tablet  of:  "  He  who  has  seen  the  history  of  Gil- 
gamesh." 

TABLETS  VII  and  VIII 

Only  a  few  fragments  have  been  preserved,  and  very 
scanty  information  can  be  gathered  from  them.  Tablet  VII 
must  have  begun  with  E^bani's  account  of  his  dream  on  the 
morning  after  the  victory-jubilee  in  Erech,  and  closed  with 
the  death  of  that  hero,  brought  about  by  the  goddess  Ish- 
tar.  Pages  53  and  54  (cf.  55)  of  Professor  Haupt's  edi- 
tion are  said,  by  Dr.  Jeremias,  to  belong  to  Tablet  VIII,  be- 
cause the  preceding  column  (a  Column  VI),  being  the  ob- 
verse of  the  same  tablet,  speaks  of  the  sickness  and  death 
of  Eabani  (see  Tablet  IX).  In  Col.  I,  Eabani  calls  on  his 
friend  to  perform  some  heroic  deed,  worthy  of  his  renown. 
They  are  halting  in  front  of  a  forest  gate,  which  Eabani 
thus  addresses: 

There  is  none  other  tree  like  unto  thee; 

Six  gar  ^  is  thy  height  and  two  gar  thy  thickness. 

Eabani  also  says  of  it,  "  I  know  thee."  And  in  Col.  VI 
he  moans: 

"  In  good  health  I  went  forth,  my  friend.  *  *  * 

But  the  dream  which  I  dreamed  has  been  fulfilled." 

And  there  lay  Eabani  for  twelve  days  [on  the  first  and  the 

second  day?] 
on  which  Eabani  on  his  couch  [lay  sick?] ; 
On  the  third  and  the  fourth  *  *  *; 
On  the  fifth,  sixth,  seventh,  eighth,  etc.,  day 
on  which  Eabani  [lay  sick  on  his  couch?] 
The  eleventh,  the  twelfth  day  *  *  * 
On  which  Eabani  lay  on  his  couch  *  *  * 
Then  he  called  to  Gilgamesh. 

•  A  gar  seems  to  have  been  twelve  or  fourteen  cubits  long. 


THE   GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


343 


The  few  traces  of  the  following  lines  still  show  that  the 
hero  received  his  wound  in  a  fight  which  in  fearful  pre- 
monition "  he  had  feared."  The  lament  for  the  dead  in 
Tablet  XII  shows  that  it  must  have  been  a  very  severe  and 
unusual  fight.  Of  his  end,  narrated,  no  doubt,  on  Tablet 
IX,  it  is  said  repeatedly  in  Tablet  XII:  "Earth  has  snatched 
him  away." 

TABLET   IX 

begins  with  the  lament  of  Gilgamesh  for  the  death  of  his 
friend,  and  with  his  resolve  to  go  to  his  ancestor  Per- 
napishtim,^  that  he  may  learn  the  mystery  of  the  latter's 
apotheosis,  and,  at  the  same  time,  secure  recovery  from  a 
loathsome  disease,^  with  which  Ishtar  has  smitten  him. 

Gilgamesh  wept  bitterly  over  the  loss  of  his  friend 

Eabani,  and  he  lay  stretched  out  upon  the  ground,  (say- 
ing): 

"  I  will  not  die  like  Eabani, 

But  weeping  has  entered  into  my  heart; 

Fear  of  death  has  befallen  me,  and 

I  lie  here  stretched  out  upon  the  ground. 

To  (test)  the  strength  of  Per-napishtim,^  the  son  of  Kidin- 
Marduk, 

I  will  set  out,  and  I  will  go  at  once."  * 

"  At  the  mountain  ravine  I  arrived  by  night-time, 

*  *  *  Lions  I  saw,  and  I  was  afraid; 

*  *  *  but  I  lifted  my  head  to  god  Sin  and  I  prayed. 

'  So  read  by  Professor  Haupt ;  or  Par-napishtim,  Jastrow,  Zimmern, 
and  others  =  sprout  or  offspring  of  life  ;  Jensen  (i8go)  and  Jeremias  read 
get-napishtim  =  the  saved  one  ;  Jensen  (1900),  Ux-napishtim  ;  Ball,  Hom- 
mel,  etc.,  Nuch-napishtim  —  rest  of  the  soul,  whence  Hebrew  Noah  ;  for- 
merly also  read  Shatnash-napishtim  =  sun  of  life,  and  Um-napishtim  = 
day  of  life. 

'  According  to  Professor  Christopher  Johnston,  "apparently  the  lues 
venerea,"  see  "  American  Journal  of  Semitic  Languages  and  Literatures," 
xvi,  p.  30. 

»  Which,  of  course,  means  :  to  P.  N.,  the  hero  ;  similar  expressions  are 
found  in  Homer's  "  Iliad"  and  "Odyssey." 

*  Gilgamesh  starts  out  at  once,  and  then,  continuing  the  monologue 
narrates  as  follows. 


344 


ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


To  the  [great?]  majesty  of  the  god  came  my  cry, 
[and  he  hearkened]  and  saved  me,  even  me." 
And  in  the  night  he  saw?]  a  vision  and  a  dream. 
Lions  *  *  *]  were  enjoying  themselves." 
And  he  Hfted  the  axe  in  his  hand, 
and  drew  out  the  sword  from  his  belt. 
Like  a  javelin  he  threw  himself  between  them; 
he  wounded,  killed,  and  scattered  [them?] 

[The  rest  of  the  column  is  lost.] 

Col.  II  narrates  the  meeting  of  Gilgamesh  with  the  scor- 
pion-men, at  the  foot 

of  a  mountain  whose  name  is  Mashu. 

As  he  came  to  the  mountain  of  Mashu, 

whose  entrance  is  guarded  daily  by  monsters, 

whose  back  extends  to  the  dam  of  heaven, 

and  whose  breast  reaches  down  to  Aralu,* 

Scorpion-men  guard  its  gate; 

Dreadful  terror  they  spread,  and  it  is  death  to  behold  them. 

Their  splendour  is  fearful,  overthrowing  the  mountains; 

From  sunrise  to  sunset  they  guard  the  sun. 

Gilgamesh  beheld  them,  and  with  fear 

and  terror  his  face  grew  dark. 

His  mind  became  confused  at  the  wildness  of  their  aspect. 

But  one  scorpion-man  said  to  his  wife: 

"  He  that  there  cometh  to  us,  flesh  of  the  gods  is  his 

body." 
And  the  wife  answered  the  scorpion-man: 
"  Two  (thirds)  he  resembles  a  god,  and  one  third  only  a 

man." 
And  the  scorpion-man  replied  and  said  unto  her: 
["  One]  of  the  gods  has  given  the  order; 
[and]  he  has  travelled  over  far-distant  roads, 
until  he  should  come  unto  me. 
The  mountains]  which  he  has  crossed  are  steep," 

[The  remainder  is  broken  away.] 

•  Hades. 


THE   GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


345 


Col.  Ill,  as  far  as  the  fragments  permit  us  to  see,  nar- 
rates that  Gilgamesh,  seeing  that  the  monster  regarded 
him  with  friendly  eyes,  recovered  from  his  fright  and  told 
the  scorpion-man  of  his  intention  to  go  "  to  Per-napishtim, 
his  ancestor,  who  had  been  removed  into  the  assembly  of 
the  gods  and  [had  thus  power  over]  life  and  death."  The 
scorpion-man  replied  by  describing  to  Gilgamesh  the  dif- 
ficulties and  dangers  connected  with  such  a  march  through 
the  mountain  of  Mashu.  Nobody  has  yet  been  able  to 
do  so,  twelve  miles  of  heavy  darkness  in  all  directions  hav- 
ing to  be  penetrated.  But  the  hero  was  not  discouraged, 
and  the  scorpion-man  acceded  to  his  urgent  request  and 
opened  to  him  the  gate  of  the  mountain;  and  now  begins 
the  wearisome  march: 

One  mile  he  marches,  thick  is  the  darkness,  not  does  it 

grow  light. 
Two  miles  he  marches,  thick  is  the  darkness,  not  does  it 

grow  light. 

Col.  V  (p.  65)  continues  the  description  of  the  twelve- 
mile  walk  in  the  same  diffuse  epic  style;  then  the  hero 
leaves  the  mouiitain  and — on  the  shore  of  the  sea — ^beholds 
a  beautiful  and  wonderful  tree: 

And  as  he  saw  it,  he  ran  toward  it. 

Diamonds  (?)  it  bore  as  fruit, 

Branches  were  hanging  (down?),  beautiful  to  behold. 

Crystal  (antimony?)  the  branches  bore; 

with  fruit  it  was  laden,  dazzling  the  eye  (of  the  hero). 

Other  precious  trees  are  also  there.  In  Col.  VI  Gil- 
gamesh must  have  reached  the  seacoast,  for 

TABLET  X 

commences,  as  shown  in  the  colophon  to  Tablet  IX: 

The  (divine)  girl  Sabitu,  sitting  upon  the  throne  of  the  sea, 

probably  a  poetic  expression  for  the  ocean-palace,  in  which 
she  resides,  as  we  are  told  later.     In  Col.  II,  Gilgamesh 


346       ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

finds  another  obstacle  in  his  way,  as  he  arrived  "  clothed 
with  a  skin."  Again,  he  began  to  lament  and  was  ange'red 
at  the  "  distant  roads  "  that  he  had  yet  to  travel. 

Sabitu  sees  him  from  afar  off, 
and  she  speaks  to  herself 
and  [takes  counsel]  with  herself: 
"  Because  this  *  *  * 

How  shall  he  succeed  (?)  in  [his  endeavour?] 
And  as  Sabitu  sees  him  approach  she  closes  [her  ocean- 
palace?] 
Its  gate  she  closes  and  closes  *  *  * 
But  Gilgamesh  listens  to  *  *  * 
Lifts  up  his  finger  (?)  and  *  *  * 
Then  Gilgamesh  spoke  unto  Sabitu  and  said: 
"Sabitu,  what  doest  thou  gaze  [at  me?]. 
Why  doest  thou  bolt  the  gate  against  me?] ; 
For  I  will  break  [thy  gate  " 

The  lower  part  of  the  plate  is  destroyed,  and  we  can 
only  conjecture  that  Sabitu  described  to  the  hero  the  im- 
possibility of  continuing  his  journey,  which  would  lead 
him  across  an  impassable  sea.  In  Col.  II  the  hero  again 
tells  the  reason  for  his  journey,  and  laments  the  loss  of  his 
beloved  friend,  Eabani,  who  has  now  returned  to  dust, 
and  to  share  whose  lot  seems  unbearable  to  him. 

And  Gilgamesh  said  unto  her,  the  Sabitu: 

Tell  me,  O  Sabitu,  which  is  the  way  to  Per-napishtim? 

What  is  its  direction,  O  Sabitu,  tell  me  its  direction. 

If  it  be  possible,  I  will  cross  the  sea; 

But  if  it  is  impossible,  I  will  run  there  across  the  field." 

And  Sabitu  answered  unto  Gilgamesh,  and  said : 

"  Gilgamesh,  there  has  never  been  a  crossing  (here), 

and  no  one  since  eternal  days  has  ever  crossed  the  sea. 

Shamash,  the  hero,  crosses  it;  but  besides  Shamash  who 

can  cross  it? 
Difficult    is    the    crossing,    and    extremely     dangerous 

the  way. 


THE  GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE  347 

and   closed   are   the   Waters   of   Death*   which   bolt   its 

entrance. 
How,  then,  Gilgamesh,  wilt  thou  cross  the  sea? 
And  if  thou  should'st  reach  the  Waters  of  Death,  what 

wouldst  thou  do? 
But  Gilgamesh,  there  is  Arad-Ea,  the  sailor  of  Per-napish- 

tim 
at  the  side  of  '  those  with  stones ' ;  in  the  forest  he  fells  a 

cedar. 
Him  may  thy  countenance  behold. 
If  possible,  cross  over  with  him;  but  if  impossible,  go 

back." 
When  Gilgamesh  heard  this, 
he  lifted  up  the  axe  at  his  arm, 
drew  the  sword  from  his  belt,  slipped  in  and  descended 

to  [***]; 
and  fell  like  a  javelin  between  them. 

The  hero  stands  at  the  entrance  to  the  Waters  of  Death, 
which  are  supposed  to  surround  the  ocean.  The  "  Isle  of 
the  Blessed  "  is  thought  to  be  beyond  these  Waters  of 
Death,  just  as  in  the  case  of  the  Netherworld.  In  Col.  Ill 
Gilgamesh  tells  Arad-Ea  of  his  grief,  using  undoubtedly 
the  same  words  as  before,  and  closes  with  the  request  to 
ferry  him  over. 

Arad-Ea  said  unto  Gilgamesh: 

"  Thy  hand,  O  Gilgamesh,  has  prevented  [the  crossing]. 

Thou  hast  smashed  '  those  with  stones '  *  *  * 

'  Those  with  stones  '  are  now  smashed  and  the  *  *  *  is  no 

more. 
Take,  Gilgamesh,  the  axe  at  thy  side, 
go  into  the  wood  and  make  one  hundred  and  twenty  oars  ^ 

five  gar  long." 

He  is  also  to  make  other  preparations  for  his  journey. 

'  According  to  Professor  Jensen,  ocean.  Could  it  perhaps  be  (the 
breakers)  which  practically  closed  the  entrance  to  the  ocean  ? 

'  Or  rather,  a  pole,  such  as  is  used  in  Oriental  countries  even  up  to 
this  date. 


348       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

And  Gilgamesh  on  hearing  this  (i.  e.,  Arad-Ea's  instruc- 
tions), 

took  the  axe  at  his  side,  and  [drew  the  sword  from  his  belt]. 

He  went  into  the  woods  and  felled  trees  for  one  hundred 
and  twenty  oars  five  gar  in  length, 

smeared  them  over  with  pitch  and  brought  them  [to 
Arad-Ea]. 

Then  Gilgamesh  and  Arad-Ea  embarked; 

the  ship  tossed  to  and  fro  while  they  were  on  their  way. 

A  journey  of  forty  and  five  days  they  accomplished  within 
three  days, 

and  thus  Arad-Ea  arrived  at  the  Waters  of  Death. 

And  now  they  begin  to  face  the  most  serious  dangers. 
Col.  IV  relates  that  the  ferryman  advises  the  hero  not  to 
give  in,  as  long  as  the  journey  upon  the  Waters  of  Death 
lasts.  Many  a  day  they  spent  on  their  journey,  and  day 
after  day  Gilgamesh  stuck  to  the  oar; 

and  then  Gilgamesh  loosened  his  belt  (i.  e.,  rested  from  his 

exertions), 
for  he  was  weary. 

And  Per-napishtim  looking  at  him  from  the  distance 
Began  thinking  within  himself,  and 
With  himself  he  thus  meditated: 

"  Why  are  ['  those  with  stones ']  of  the  ship  smashed? 
And  one,  who  has  not  my  *  *  *  rides  in  [the  ship]. 
He  that  comes  there  [is  he?]  not  a  man,  and  has  he  not 

the  '  right  side '  of  a  man? 
I  look:  (Is  that)  *  *  *  not  [a  human  being?] 
I  look:  (Is  that)  *  *  *  not  [a  man?] 
I  look:  (Is  that)  *  *  *   [not  a  god?] 
He  resembles  me  in  every  respect." 

At  the  beginning  of  Col.  V,  Gilgamesh  drew  nigh  unto 
the  shore  safely  and,  while  still  sitting  in  the  ship,  he  poured 
out  his  tale  of  woe  before  his  ancestor;  he  told  him  of 
the  adventures  which  he  and  his  friend  had  encountered, 
among  which  was  one  with  a  "  panther  of  the  field  ";  then 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  349 

follows  an  account  of  the  killing  of  the  heaven-bull;  the 
slaying  of  Humbaba,  the  despot,  who  had  lived  in  a  cedar 
forest;  other  adventures  with  tigers;  his  friend's  sickness 
and  sad  death;  and  "now  I  weep  because  of  him";  then 
he  tells  how  he  had  wandered  across  all  the  countries,  passed 
over  steep  mountains,  and  crossed  dreadful  seas,  but  all 
in  vain: 

"  The  friend  whom  I  loved  has  been  turned  to  clay;  Eabani, 

my  friend. 
And  I  will  not,  like  unto  him,  lie  down;  not  will  I  sink 

to  where  my  friend  is  now." 
And  Gilgamesh  said  unto  Per-napishtim: 
"  Here  I  have  come,  and  Per-napishtim,  whom  people  call 

the  '  distant,'  I  will  see. 
To  him  I  will  turn  (for  help?);  I  have  travelled  through  all 

the  lands, 
I  have  crossed  over  the  steep  mountains, 
and  I  have  traversed  all  the  seas,"  etc. 

Col.  VI  must  have  contained  a  lengthy  reply  of  Per- 
napishtim,  telling  him  that  he  could  do  nothing  to  help 
him  to  escape  from  death.  He  told  him  that  death  comes 
to  all,  that  none  could  escape  from  it. 

As  long  as  houses  are  built,  as  long  as  tablets  are  sealed, 

as  long  as  brothers  are  at  enmity, 

as  long  as  there  exist  strife  and  hatred  in  the  land, 

as  long  as  the  river  carries  the  waters  (to  the  sea?),  etc., 

so  long  is  there  no  likeness  of  death  drawn  (i.  e.,  no  man 

can  tell  when  his  own  time  might  come). 
When  the  alu-demon  and  the  eziz-demon  greet  ^  a  man, 
then  the  Anunnaki,  the  great  gods  [assemble] 
and  the  goddess  of  fate,  she  who  with  them  determines  fate, 

will  do  so. 
For  they  determine  death  and  life. 
But  the  days  of  death  are  unknown  to  mankind. 

•  Used  ironically  (?) ;  alu  and  eziz  are  two  evil  demons. 


3  so       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Then  follows  the  colophon  stating  that  this  was  the 
tenth  tablet  of  the  great  epic. 


TABLET  XI 

contains  the  famous  account  of  the  deluge.  The  text  of 
this  tablet  is  published  by  Friedrich  Delitzsch  in  his  "  As- 
syrische  Lesestiicke,"  third  edition,  pp.  101-109;  and,  more 
recently,  by  Professor  Haupt  in  the  second  part  of  his 
"  Das  Babylonische  Nimrodepos,"  pp.  133-150,  this  latter 
being  a  complete,  critical  text,  giving  all  the  variant  read- 
ings and  additional  remarks  beneath  the  text.*  The  original 
publication  on  plates  50  and  51  in  the  fourth  volume  oi 
the  "  Inscriptions  of  Western  Asia  "  has  been  re-edited, 
with  many  improvements,  in  the  second  edition  of  this 
volume,  by  Theophilus  G.  Pinches,  in  1891  (plates  43  and 
44). — Translations  of  the  deluge  story  (lines  1-104  of 
Haupt's  edition),  or  of  parts  thereof,  have  been  made,  since 
the  days  of  George  Smith,  by  many  Assyriolog^sts — e.  g.. 
Fox  Talbot,  Jules  Oppert,  F.  Lenormant.  Special  atten- 
tion is  called  here  to  the  following  translations:  i.  Peter 
Jensen,  in  his  "  Cosmology  of  the  Babylonians  "  (pp.  365- 
446),  and  in  "Assyrisch-babylonische  Mythen  und  Epen," 
pp.  228-257;  2.  Alfred  Jeremias,  in  his  "  Izdabar-Nimrod  " 
(pp.  32-40,  translating  the  whole  eleventh  tablet);  3.  H. 
Winckler,  "  Keilinschriftliches  Textbuch  zum  Alten  Testa- 
ment "  (pp.  70-87) ;  4.  Heinrich  Zimmem  in  Gunkel's  book 
on  "  Creation  and  Chaos  "  (pp.  423-428);  5.  L.  W.  King, 
"First  Steps  in  Assyrian"  (London,  1898,  pp.  161-181, 
text,  transliteration,  and  translation),  and  the  same  author's 
"  Babylonian  Religion  and  Mythology  "  (London,  1899, 
chap,  iv,  pp.  121-146);  6.  C.  J.  Ball,  "Light  from  the 
East,  or  the  Witness  of  the  Monuments  "  (London,  1899, 
pp.  34  foil.);  7.  According  to  Professor  Jastrow's  state- 
ment on  p.  730  of  his  "  Religion  of  Babylonia  and  As- 

'  The  texts  belonging  to  Tablet  XI  occupy  pages  95-150  of  the  second 
part— viz.,  pp.  95-105  contain  the  fragments  of  copy  A  of  this  tablet ;  pp. 
106-113  the  fragments  of  copy  B  ;  pp.  114-119  those  of  copy  C  ;  and  pp. 
120-132  a  number  of  additional  fragments. 


THE  GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE 


351 


Syria,"  the  transliteration  and  translation  of  the  deluge 
text,  together  with  critical  notes  and  commentary,  by  Pro- 
fessor Haupt  in  the  forthcoming  third  edition  of  Schrader's 
"  Die  Keilinschriften  und  das  Alte  Testament,"  is  to  be  by 
far  the  best  ever  published. — In  general,  see  also  the  article 
"  Deluge,"  by  H.  Zimmern  and  T.  K.  Cheyne  in  Cheyne 
and  Black's  "  Encyclopaedia  Biblica,"  London,  1899,  vol.  i, 
cols.  1 05  5- 1 066. 

Tablet  XI  continues  the  dialogue  between  Per-napish- 
tim  and  Gilgamesh,  begun  in  Cols.  V  and  VI  of  the  pre- 
ceding tablet. 

Gilgamesh  said  to  him,  to  Per-napishtim,  the  distant:* 
"  I  gaze  upon  thee  (in  amazement),  O  Per-napishtim! 
Thy  appearance  has  not  changed,  like  unto  me  thou  art 

also. 
And  thy  nature  itself  has  not  changed,  like  unto  me  thou 

art  also, 
though  thou  hast  departed  this  life.     But  my  heart  has  still 

to  struggle 
against  all  that  no  longer  (?)  lies  upon  thee. 
Tell  me,  How  didst  thou  come  to  dwell  (here?)  and  obtain 

eternal  life  among  the  gods?  " 

[From  the  shore  Per-napishtim,  the  favourite  of  the 
gods,  now  relates  the  story  of  the  deluge  to  the  hero,  who, 
sitting  in  his  ship,  is  listening  to  him.] 

Per-napishtim  then  said  unto  Gilgamesh: 

"  I  will  reveal  unto  thee,  O  Gilgamesh,  the  mysterious 

story, 
and  the  mystery  ^  of  the  gods  I  will  tell  thee. 
The  city  of  Shurippak,*  a  city  which,  as  thou  knowest, 
is  situated  on  the  bank  of  the  river  Euphrates. 
That  city  was  corrupt,  so  that  the  gods  within  it 
decided  to  bring  about  a  deluge,  even  the  great  gods, 
as  many  as?]  there  were:  their  father,  Anu; 

'  Others,  far  removed  ;  the  remote,  perhaps  with  reference  to  line  204 
(see  below,  p.  358,  lines  17-20). 
'  Or,  decision  (?,  Haupt). 
'  According  to  Jensen  and  others,  the  city  of  Larancha. 


352 


ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


their  counsellor,  the  warrior  Bel; 

their  leader,  Ninib; 

their  champion,  the  god  En-nu-gi. 

But  Ea,  the  lord  of  unfathomable  wisdom,  argued  with 

them. 
Their  plan  he  told  to  a  reed-hut,  (saying): 
'  Reed-hut,  reed-hut,  clay-structure,  day-structure! 
Reed-hut,  hear;  clay-structure,  pay  attention!^ 
Thou  man  of  Shurippak,  son  of  Ubara-Tutu,* 
Build  a  house,  construct  a  ship; 
Forsake  thy  possessions,  take  heed  for  thy  life! 
Abandon  thy  goods,  save  (thy)  life, 
and  bring  living  seed  of  every  kind  into  the  ship. 
As  for  the  ship,  which  thou  shalt  build, 
let  its  proportions  be  well  measured: 
Its  breadth  and  its  length  shall  bear  proportion  each  to  each, 
and  into  the  sea  then  launch  it.' 
I  took  heed,  and  said  to  Ea,  my  lord: 
'  I  will  do,  my  lord,  as  thou  hast  commanded; 
I  will  observe  and  will  fulfil  the  command. 
But  what  shall  I  answer  to  (the  inquiries  of)  the  city,  the 
people,  and  the  elders?  ' 
Ea  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke, 
and  he  said  unto  me,  his  servant: 
'  Man,  as  an  answer  say  thus  unto  them: 
"  I  know  that  Bel  hates  me. 
No  longer  can  I  live  in  your  city; 
Nor  on  Bel's  territory  can  I  live  securely  any  longer;  ^ 
I  will  go  down  to  the  '  deep,'  I  will  live  with  Ea,  my  lord. 
Upon  you  he  *  will  (for  a  time?)  pour  down  rich  blessing. 
He  will  grant  you]  fowl  [in  plenty]  and  fish  in  abundance, 
Herds  of  cattle  and  an  abundant]  harvest. 
Shamash  has  appointed  a  time  when  the  rulers  of  darkness  ' 
at  eventide  will  pour  down  upon  you]  a  destructive  rain."  ' 

>  See  note  2  on  page  358.  »  Kidin-Marduk. 

•  Literally,  lay  down  my  head ;  Bel's  territory  was  the  land,  as  the 
ocean  was  that  of  Ea.  «  Bel. 

•  So  Zimmern,  Jensen  (1900) ;  others,  when  he  who  sends  heavy  rains 
(Jeremias). 


THE   GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE  353 

The  lower  part  of  Col.  I  is  unfortunately  much  muti- 
lated.   Line  48  seems  to  read: 

As  soon  as  early  dawn  appeared. 

Then  continues  line  55: 

The  brightness  [of  day?]  I  feared; 

All  that  was  necessary  I  collected  together. 

On  the  fifth  day  I  drew  its  design;  ^ 

In  its  middle  part  its  sides  were  ten  gar  *  high; 

Ten  gar  also  was  the  extent  of  its  deck; 

I  added  a  front-roof  to  it  and  closed  it  in. 

I  built  it  in  six  stories, 

thus  making  seven  floors  in  all; 

The  interior  of  each  I  divided  again  into  nine  partitions.* 

Beaks  for  water  within  I  cut  out. 

I  selected  a  pole  and  added  all  that  was  necessary. 

Three  (variant,  five)  shar  of  pitch  I  smeared  on  its  outside; 

three  shar  of  asphalt  I  used  for  the  inside  (so  as  to  make 

it  water-tight). 
Three  shar  of  oil  the  men  carried,  carrying  it  in  vessels. 
One  shar  of  oil  I  kept  out  and  used  it  for  sacrifices, 
while  the  other  two  shar  the  boatman  stowed  away. 
For  the  temple  of  the  gods  (?)  I  slaughtered  oxen; 
I  killed  lambs  (?)  day  by  day. 
Jugs  of  cider  (?),  of  oil,  and  of  sweet  wine. 
Large  bowls  (filled  therewith?),  like  river  water  (i.  e.,  freely) 

I  poured  out  as  libations. 
I  made  a  feast  (to  the  gods)  like  that  of  the  New- Year's 

Day.* 
To  god  Shamash  my  hands  brought  oil."* 
[*  *  *]  ®  the  ship  was  completed. 

'  Or,  I  constructed  its  hull. 

'  =  one  hundred  and  twenty  cubits. 

'  Thus  making  in  all  sixty-three  partitions. 

*  This  festival,  celebrated  on  New- Year's  day,  was  held  later  in  com- 
memoration of  the  deluge.  New- Year's  day  being  originally  celebrated 
in  memory  of  the  creation. 

'  That  is,  I  sacrificed  to  him. 

'  Zimmern,  on  the  seventh  day  (but??). 
23 


354       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

[*  *  *]  heavy  was  the  work,  and 

I  added  tackling  above  and  below,  [and  after  all  was  fin- 
ished] , 

The  ship  sank  into  water]  two  thirds  of  its  height. 

With  all  that  I  possessed  I  filled  it; 

with  all  the  silver  I  had  I  filled  it; 

with  all  the  gold  I  had  I  filled  it; 

with  living  creatures  of  every  kind  I  filled  it. 

Then  I  embarked  also  all  my  family  and  my  relatives, 

cattle  of  the  field,  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the  uprighteous 
people — all  them  I  embarked. 

A  time  had  Shamash  appointed,  (namely): 

'  When  the  rulers  of  darkness  send  at  eventide  a  destruc- 
tive rain, 

then  enter  into  the  ship  and  shut  its  door.'  ^ 

This  very  sign  came  to  pass,  and 

The  rulers  of  darkness  sent  a  destructive  rain  at  eventide. 

I  saw  the  approach  of  the  storm, 

and  I  was  afraid  to  witness  the  storm; 

I  entered  the  ship  and  shut  the  door. 

I  intrusted  the  guidance  of  the  ship  to  Purur-bel,  the  boat- 
man,^ 

the  great  house,  and  the  contents  thereof. 

As  soon  as  early  dawn  appeared, 

there  rose  up  from  the  horizon  a  black  cloud, 

within  which  the  weatl;ier  god  (Adad)  thundered, 

and  Nabu  and  the  king  of  the  gods  (Marduk)  went  before. 

The  destroyers  passed  across  mountain  and  dale  (literally, 
country). 

Dibbara,  the  great,^  tore  loose  the  anchor-cable  (?). 

There  went  Ninib  and  he  caused  the  banks  to  overflow; 

the  Anunnaki  lifted  on  high  (their)  torches, 

and  with  the  brightness  thereof  they  illuminated  the  uni- 
verse. 

The  storm  brought  on  by  Adad  swept  even  up  to  the 
heavens, 

'  Variant  reading  says,  thy  ship.  •  Or  Uragal  (?). 

'  Of  course,  not  the  same  as  Arad-Ea,  mentioned  before. 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


355 


and  all  light  was  turned  into  darkness. 

[       ]  overflooded  the  land  like  *  *  * 

It  blew  with  violence  and  in  one  day  (?)  it  rose  above  the 
mountains  (??). 

Like  an  onslaught  in  battle  it  rushed  in  on  the  people. 

Not  could  brother  look  after  brother. 

Not  were  recognised  the  people  from  heaven. 

The  gods  even  were  afraid  of  the  storm; 

they  retreated  and  took  refuge  in  the  heaven  of  Anu.* 

There  the  gods  crouched  down  like  dogs,  on  the  inclosure 
of  heaven  "^  they  sat  cowering. 

Then  Ishtar  cried  out  like  a  woman  in  travail,* 

and  the  lady  of  the  gods  lamented  with  a  loud  voice,*  (say- 
ing): 

'  The  world  of  old  has  been  turned  back  into  clay, 

because  I  assented  to  this  evil  in  the  assembly  of  the  gods. 

Alas!  that  when  I  assented  to  this  evil  in  the  council  of  the 
gods, 

I  was  for  the  destruction  of  my  own  people. 

What  I  have  created,  where  is  it? 

Like  the  spawn  of  fish  it  fills  the  sea.'  ^ 

The  gods  wailed  with  her  over  the  Anunnaki. 

The  gods  were  bowed  down,  and  sat  there  weeping. 

Their  lips  were  pressed  together  (in  fear  and  in  terror). 

Six  days  and  nights 

The  wind  blew,  and  storm  and  tempest, overwhelmed  the 
country. 

When  the  seventh  day  drew  nigh  the  tempest,  the  storm, 
the  battle 

which  they  had  waged  like  a  great  host  began  to  moderate. 

The  sea  quieted  down;  hurricane  and  storm  ceased. 

I  looked  out  upon  the  sea  and  raised  loud  my  voice, 

But  all  mankind  had  turned  back  into  clay. 

'  Jensen,  the  sky ;  others,  the  highest  part  of  heaven. 

'  The  firmament  ?  '  Variant  reading  has,  full  of  wrath. 

'  Jeremias,  who  always  speaks  kindly. 

'•  Zimmern  translates  lines  123  and  124,  shall  I  ever  again  bring  human 
beings  into  this  world,  when  now,  like  the  spawn  of  fish,  they  fill  the 
sea? 


356       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Like  the  surrounding  field  had  become  the  bed  of  the 

rivers.* 
I  opened  the  air-hole  and  light  fell  upon  my  cheek. 
Dumfounded  I  sank  backward,  and  sat  weeping, 
while  over  my  cheek  flowed  the  tears. 
I  looked  in  every  direction,  and  behold,  all  was  sea. 
Now,  after  twelve  (days?)  there  rose  (out  of  the  water)  a 

strip  of  land.* 
To  Mount  Nisir  the  ship  drifted. 
On  Mount  Nisir  the  boat  stuck  fast  and  it  did  not  slip 

away. 
The  first  day,  the  second  day.  Mount  Nisir  held  the  ship 

fast,  and  did  not  let  it  slip  away. 
The  third  day,  the  fourth  day,  Mount  Nisir  held  the  ship 

fast,  and  did  not  let  it  slip  away. 
The  fifth  day,  the  sixth  day.  Mount  Nisir  held  the  ship 

fast,  and  did  not  let  it  slip  away. 
When  the  seventh  day  drew  nigh 
I  sent  out  a  dove,  and  let  her  go. 
The  dove  flew  hither  and  thither, 

but  as  there  was  no  resting-place  for  her,  she  returned. 
Then  I  sent  out  a  swallow,  and  let  her  go. 
The  swallow  flew  hither  and  thither, 

but  as  there  was  no  resting-place  for  her  she  also  returned. 
Then  I  sent  out  a  raven,  and  let  her  go. 
The  raven  flew  away  and  saw  the  abatement  of  the  waters. 
She  settled  down  to  feed,*  went  away,  and  returned  no 

more. 
Then  I  let  everything  go  out  unto  the  four  winds,  and  I 

offered  a  sacrifice. 
I  poured  out  a  libation  upon  the  peak  of  the  mountain. 
I  placed  the  censers  seven  and  seven, 

'  That  is,  there  was  everything  covered  with  water ;  Jastrow,  in  place 
of  dams,  everything  had  become  a  marsh  ;  King,  in  place  of  fields,  there  lay 
before  me  a  swamp  ;  Jensen  (tgoo),  as  soon  as  daylight  appeared,  I  prayed. 

'  Others,  after  twelve  double  hours  ;  Jeremias,  twelve  cubits  high  land 
arose ;  Zimraern,  toward  the  twelfth  (cardinal  point)  land  arose. 

"Either  on  floating  carcasses  or  on  the  slimy  mud;  King,  and  she 
came  near,  wading  and  croaking,  but  did  not  return. 


THE   GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE 


357 


and  poured  into  them  calamus,  cedar-wood,  and  sweet- 
incense. 

The  gods  smelt  the  savour; 

yea,  the  gods  smelt  the  sweet  savour; 

the  gods  gathered  like  flies  around  the  sacrificer. 

But  when  now  the  lady  of  the  gods  (Ishtar)  drew  nigh, 

she  lifted  up  the  precious  ornaments  (?)  *  which  Anu  had 
made  according  to  her  wish  (and  said): 

'  Ye  gods  here!  by  my  necklace,  not  will  I  forget. 

These  days  will  I  remember,  never  will  I  forget  (them). 

Let  the  gods  come  to  the  offering; 

But  Bel  shall  not  come  to  the  offering. 

Since  rashly  he  caused  the  flood-storm, 

and  handed  over  my  people  unto  destruction.' 

Now,  when  Bel  drew  nigh, 

and  saw  the  ship,  the  god  was  wroth, 

and  anger  against  the  gods,  the  Igigi,  filled  his  heart,  (and 
he  said): 

'Who  then  has  escaped  here  (with  his  life)? 

No  man  was  to  survive  the  universal  destruction.' 

Then  Ninib  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke, 

saying  unto  Bel,  the  warrior: 

'  Who  but  Ea  could  have  planned  this! 

For  does  not  Ea  know  all  arts?  ' 

Then  Ea  opened  his  mouth  and  spoke, 

saying  unto  Bel,  the  warrior: 

'  Ay,  thou  wise  one  among  the  gods,  thou  warrior, 

how  rash  of  thee  to  bring  about  a  flood-storm! 

On  the  sinner  visit  his  sin, 

and  on  the  wicked  his  wickedness; 

but  be  merciful,  forbear,  let  not  all  be  destroyed!  Be  con- 
siderate, let  not  everything  be  [confounded] ! 

Instead  of  sending  a  flood-storm, 

let  lions  ^  come  and  diminish  mankind; 

Instead  of  sending  a  flood-storm, 

let  tigers  come  and  diminish  mankind; 

'  Literally,  the  great  lightnings. 

•  Compare  2  Kings,  xvii,  25 ;  Ezek.,  xiv,  15. 


358        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Instead  of  sending  a  flood-storm, 

let  famine  come  and  smite  the  land; 

Instead  of  sending  a  flood-storm, 

let  pestilence  come  and  kill  off  the  people.^ 

I  did  not  reveal  the  mystery  of  the  great  gods. 

(Some  one?)  caused  Atrachasis  to  see  (it)  in  a  dream,  and  so 

he  (Per-napishtim)  heard  the  mystery  of  the  gods."  * 
Thereupon  Bel  arrived  at  a  decision. 
Bel  went  up  into  the  ship, 
took  me  by  the  hand  and  led  me  out. 
He  led  out  also  my' wife  and  made  her  kneel  beside  me; 
He  turned  us  face  to  face,  and  standing  between  us,  blessed 

us,  (saying): 
'  Ere  this  Per-napishtim  was  only  human; 
But  now  Per-napishtim  and  his  wife  shall  be  lofty  like  unto 

the  gods; 
Let  Per-napishtim  live  far  away  (from  men)  at  the  mouth  of 

the  (two?)  rivers.' 
Then  they  took  me  and  let  us  dwell  far  away  at  the  mouth 

of  the  rivers."  ' 

After  Per-napishtim  had  finished  this  account,  he  turned 
to  Gilgamesh  and  said: 

"  Now  as  for  thee,  which  one  of  the  gods  shall  give  thee 

strength, 
that  the  life  thou  desirest  thou  shalt  obtain? 

■  See  Ezek.,  xiv,  21 ;  Jer.,  xv,  3. 

'  According  to  Dr.  Jeremias,  Atrachasis  was  not  another  name  for 
Per-napishtim,  but  the  name  of  a  messenger  of  the  gods  ;  his  name  =  the 
very  wise ;  Haupt,  the  most  holy,  religious.  Through  Atrachasis,  Per- 
napishtim  heard  of  the  impending  disaster.  Professor  Jastrow,  in  the 
New  York  "  Independent,"  February  10  and  17,  1898,  maintained  that  (i) 
Per-napishtim  was  the  hero  of  a  local  tradition  of  a  rainstorm,  submerg- 
ing a  single  city  ;  while  (2)  Atrachasis  =  Chasis-adra  (cf.  Gen.  vi,  9),  the 
prototype  of  SlffovOpos,  was  the  hero  of  the  larger  Nature  myth,  based  upon 
the  annual  phenomenon  of  the  overflow  of  the  Euphrates.  See  also  Jas- 
trow, in  "  Zeitschrift  f<Jr  Assyriologie,"  vol.  xii,  pp.  288-301.  According 
to  most  scholars,  Ea  addresses  the  hut  in  which  Per-napishtim  (=  Atracha- 
sis) was  sleeping,  thus  revealing  to  him  in  sleep  the  mystery  of  the  gods. 

'  For  other  accounts  of  the  story  of  the  deluge,  see  below,  at  the  end 
of  the  twelfth  tablet  of  the  Nimrod  epic. 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE 


359 


Now  sleep!  "    And  for  six  days  and  seven  nights 

Gilgamesh  resembled  one  lying  lame. 

Sleep  came  over  him  like  a  storm  wind. 

Then  Per-napishtim  said  to  his  wife: 

"  Behold,  here  is  the  hero  whose  desire  is  life  (=  recov- 
ery)! 

Sleep  came  upon  him  like  a  storm  wind." 

And  the  wife  replied  to  Per-napishtim,  the  distant: 

"  Transform  him;  let  the  man  eat  of  the  charm-root. 

Let  him,  restored  in  health,  return  on  the  road  on  which 
he  came. 

Let  him  pass  out  through  the  great  door  unto  his  own 
country." 

And  Per-napishtim  said  to  his  wife: 

"  The  suffering  (and  torture)  of  the  man  pain  thee. 

Well,  then,  cook  now  for  him  the  food  and  place  it  at  his 
head." 

And  while  Gilgamesh  slept  on  board  of  his  ship, 

she  cooked  the  food  to  place  it  at  his  head. 

And  while  he  slept  on  board  of  his  ship, 

firstly,  his  food  was  prepared  (?); 

secondly,  it  was  peeled;  thirdly,  it  was  moistened; 

fourthly,  his  food  (?)  was  cleaned; 

fifthly,  shiba  (i.  e.,  old  age)  ^  was  added; 

sixthly,  it  was  cooked; 

seventhly,  of  a  sudden  the  man  was  transformed,  having 
eaten  of  the  magic  food. 

Then  spoke  Gilgamesh,  and  said  unto  Per-napishtim,  the 
distant: 

"  I  had  sunk  down,  and  sleep  had  befallen  me. 

Of  a  sudden  thou  didst  charm  me,  and  thus  help,  me  "  (?). 

And  Per-napishtim  said  unto  Gilgamesh: 

"  *  *  *  Gilgamesh  partake  of  (?)  thy  food. 

*  *  *  shall  be  told  unto  thee: 

firstly,  thy  food  was  prepared  (?); 

secondly,  it  was  peeled;  thirdly,  it  was  moistened; 

fourthly,  thy  food  (?)  was  cleaned; 

•  Name  given  to  some  plant  of  magic  power  (?), 


360       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

fifthly,  shipa  was  added; 

sixthly,  it  was  cooked; 

seventhly,  I  transformed  thee  suddenly, 

and  thou  didst  eat  of  the  magic  food." 

And  Gilgamesh  said  unto  Per-napishtim,  the  distant: 

"  What?]  shall  I  do,  Per-napishtim?  whither  shall  I  go? 

The  demon  (of  the  dead?)  has  seized  my  [friend?]. 

Upon  my  couch  death  now  sits. 

And  where  my  *  *  *  there  is  death." 

And  Per-napishtim  said  to  Arad-Ea,  the  ferryman: 

"  Arad-Ea,  thou  *  *  *  at  thy  side  (?),  let  the  boat  carry 
thee; 

whosoever  attempts  to  board  [the  ship?]  exclude  him 
from  it. 

The  man,  before  whom  thou  goest, 

has  his  body  covered  with  sores, 

and  the  eruption  of  his  skin  has  altered  the  beauty  of  his 
body. 

Take  him,  Arad-Ea,  and  bring  him  to  the  place  of  puri- 
fication, 

where  he  can  wash  his  sores  in  water  that  they  may  be- 
come white  as  snow; 

Let  him  cast  off  his  (sore?)  skin  and  the  sea  will  carry  it 
away; 

His  body  shall  then  appear  well  (and  healthy) ; 

Let  the  turban  also  be  replaced  on  his  head, 

and  the  garment  that  covers  his  nakedness. 

Until  he  returns  to  his  city, 

until  he  arrives  at  his  road. 

The  garment  shall  not  shed  [hair?],  it  shall  remain  entirely 
new." 

And  Arad-Ea  took  him  and  brought  him  to  the  place  of 
purification, 

where  he  washed  his  sores  in  water  so  that  they  became 
white  as  snow; 

he  cast  off  his  (sore?)  skin  and  the  sea  carried  it  away; 

his  body  appeared  well  (and  healthy)  again; 

He  replaced  also  the  turban  on  his  head; 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  361 

and  the  garment  that  covered  his  nakedness; 

until  he  should  return  to  his  city; 

until  he  should  arrive  at  his  road; 

[the  garment  did  not  shed  hair] ,  it  remained  entirely  new. 

Then  Gilgamesh  and  Arad-Ea  embarked  again, 

and  during  their  journey  the  ship  tossed  to  and  fro. 

[After  Gilgamesh  and  Arad-Ea  had  returned  from  the 
place  of  purification:] 

The  wife  of  Per-napishtim  spoke  unto  her  husband,  the 

distant,  (saying): 
"  Gilgamesh  did  go  away,  laboured,  and  has  pulled  (the 

oar?). 
What  now  wilt  thou  do  (or  give),  that  he  may  return  to 

his  country?  " 
And  Gilgamesh  lifted  up  the  pole, 
and  drew  the  boat  nearer  to  the  shore. 
Then  Per-napishtim  spoke  unto  Gilgamesh  (and  said): 
"  Gilgamesh,  thou  didst  go  away,  didst  labour  and  pull 

(the  oar?). 
What  now  shall  I  give  thee,  that  thou  mayest  return  to 

thy  country? 
I  will  reveal  unto  thee,  Gilgamesh,  a  mystery, 
and  [the  decision  of  the  gods]  I  will  announce  unto  thee. 
There  is  a  plant  resembling  buckthorn, 
its  thorn  (?)  stings  like  that  of  a  bramble. 
When  thy  hands  can  reach  that  plant  *  *  *  "  ^ 
When  Gilgamesh  had  heard  this 
he  opened  the  *  *  * 
bound  heavy  stones  [to  his  feet], 
which  dragged  him  down  to  the  sea  [and  thus  he  found  the 

plant] . 
Then  he  grasped  the  (magic)  plant. 
He  removed  [from  his  feet]  the  heavy  stones  [and  one 

fell  down?], 
and  a  second  he  threw  down  to  the  [first?]. 
And  Gilgamesh  said  unto  Arad-Ea,  the  ferryman: 

'  The  following  lines  286-293  are  greatly  mutilated 


362       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"  Arad-Ea,  this  plant  is  a  plant  of  great  renown  (or  trans- 
formation?); 

and  what  man  desires  in  his  heart,  he  obtains. 

I  will  take  it  to  Erech  the  strong-walled,  I  will  nurse 
(plant?)  it  there  and  then  cut  it  off. 

Its  name  is  (?):  '  Even  an  old  man  will  be  rejuvenated!  * 

I  will  eat  of  this  and  return  (again)  to  the  vigour  of  my 
youth." 

[And  now  they  start  out  to  return  home  to  Erech  the 
strong-walled.] 

Every  twenty  double-leagues  they  then  took  a  meal: 

and  every  thirty  double-leagues  they  took  a  rest. 

And  Gilgamesh  saw  a  well  wherein  was  cool  (and  refresh- 
ing) water; 

He  stepped  into  it  and  poured  out  some  water. 

A^(demon  in  the  shape  of  a)  serpent  darted  out;  the  plant 
slipped  {away  from  his  hands] ; 

he  came  [out  of  the  well?],  and  took  the  plant  away, 

and  as  he  turned  back,  he  uttered  a  curse  (?). 

And  after  this  Gilgamesh  sat  down  and  wept.  ■ 

Tears  flowed  down  his  cheeks, 

and  he  said  unto  Arad-Ea,  the  ferryman: 

"  Why,  Arad-Ea,  did  my  hands  tremble? 

Why  did  the  blood  of  my  heart  stand  still?  ^ 

Not  on  myself  did  I  bestow  any  benefit. 

On  the  ground-lion  (?)  this  benefit  has  been  bestowed. 

After  a  journey  of  only  twenty  double-leagues  the  plant 
has  been  snatched  away. 

As  I  opened  the  well,  and  lowered  the  vessel  (?). 

I  see  the  sign,  that  has  become  an  omen  to  me.  I  am  to 
return, 

leaving  the  ship  on  the  shore." 

Then  they  continued  to  take  a  meal  every  twenty  double- 
leagues, 

and  every  thirty  double-leagfues  they  took  a  rest, 

until  they  arrived  at  Erech  the  strong-walled. 

'  That  is,  why  was  I  thus  frightened  ? 


THE   GILGAMESH  NARRATIVE  363 

Gilgamesh  then  spoke  to  Arad-Ea,  the  ferryman,  (and 

said) : 
"  Arad-Ea,  ascend  and  walk  about  on  the  wall  of  Erech, 
Inspect   the   corner-stone,   and   examine   its   brick-work, 

whether  its  wall  is  not  made  of  burned  brick, 
and  its  foundation  (overlaid  with?)  pitch.     '  Sevenfold  is 

thy  name '  (?).* 

[The  closing  lines  can  not  be  correctly  translated.] 

Then  follows  the  first  line  of  Tablet  XII;  and  the  usual 
colophon  indicating  that  the  tablet  is  the  eleventh  of  the 
Gilgamesh  epic,  copied  faithfully  from  the  original,  and 
the  property  of  Ashurbanipal. 

TABLET  XII 

Only  the  second  half  of  Col.  I  is  preserved,  and  relates 
how  Gilgamesh,  after  his  return  from  this  long  journey, 
continued  to  lament  over  the  loss  of  his  friend  Eabani. 
Addressing  him,  though  absent,  he  said: 

"  To  a  temple  [thou  goest  no  more?] 

white  garments  [thou  puttest  on  no  more]. 

Like  an  ordinary  mortal  (?)  thou  art  fallen. 

With  sweet-smelling  bull's  fat  dost  thou  no  more  anoint 

thyself, 
and  people  no  more  gather  around  thee  on  account  of 

this  sweet  odour. 
The  bow  no  longer  dost  thou  stretch  upon  the  ground; 
and  those  that  were  slain  with  the  bow  now  are  round 

about  thee. 
The  staff  no  longer  dost  thou  carry  in  thy  hand; 
The  spirits  of  death  have  taken  thee  captive. 
Sandals  no  longer  dost  thou  tie  to  thy  feet; 
A  (war)  cry  no  longer  dost  thou  shout  here  on  earth; 
Thy  wife  whom  thou  lovedst,  no  longer  dost  thou  kiss; 
Thy  wife  whom  thou  hatedst,  no  longer  dost  thou  smite. 

'  Addressed  to  Erech  (?). 


364       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Thy  son  whom  thou  lovedst,  no  longer  dost  thou  kiss; 
Thy  son  whom  thou  hatedst,  no  longer  dost  thou  smite. 
The  woes  of  the  netherworld  have  overtaken  thee;  as 

well  as 
she  that  is  dark,  she  that  is  dark,  mother  Nin-azu,  who  is 

dark,* 
whose  white,  shining  body  is  not  clothed  with  a  garment, 
whose  breast  like  the  bowl  (lid?)  of  a  case  [is  not  *  *  *]." 

In  Cols.  II  and  III  Gilgamesh  goes  alone  into  the  tem- 
ple of  the  god  Ningul,  and  laments  over  the  loss  of  his 
friend  in  similar  words: 

"  His  wife  whom  he  loved,  no  longer  does  he  kiss; 

His  wife  whom  he  hated,  no  longer  does  he  smite; 

His  son  whom  he  loved,  no  longer  does  he  kiss; 

His  son  whom  he  hated,  no  longer  does  he  smite. 

The  woes  of  earth  have  snatched  him  away,  and 

she  that  is  dark,  she  that  is  dark,  mother  Nin-azu,  who  is 
dark, 

whose  white,  shining  body  is  not  clothed  with  a  gar- 
ment, 

whose  breast  like  the  bowl  (lid?)  of  a  box  [is  not  *  *  *]. 

Eabani  has  [gone  down?]  from  earth  into  [darkness?] ; 

pestilence  has  not  snatched  him  away,  consumption  has 
not  snatched  him  away; 

earth  has  snatched  him  away. 

The  lurking  demon  of  Nergal,  the  merciless,  has  not 
snatched  him  away, 

earth  has  snatched  him  away. 

The  battlefield  has  not  slain  him;  earth  has  snatched  him 
away." 

[While  Gilgamesh  spoke  thus?]  Ningul  wept  for  his  serv- 
ant Eabani.* 

Then  Gilgamesh  went  alone  to  E-kur  the  Temple  of  Bel 
(Marduk?)  (and  prayed): 

'  Consort  of  Nergal  the  goddess  of  medicine  and  healing,  and  also  the 
goddess  of  the  netherworld. 

'  But  apparently  would  not  do  anything  to  bring  back  Eabani. 


THE  GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  365 

"  Father  Bel,  the  sting  of  a  fly  has  cast  me  down  upon  the 

ground; 
Insects  have  brought  me  low  to  the  ground. 
Eabani  [has  sunk  down]  to  the  shades; 
Pestilence  has  not  snatched  him  away,  etc.  *  *  * 
The  lurking  demon  of   Nergal,  the  merciless    [has  not 

snatched  him  away]. 
The  battlefield  has  not  slain  him." 
But  father  Bel  could  not  help  him.* 

[In  his  sorrow,  Gilgamesh  addresses  himself  then  to 
the  Moon-god,  saying:] 

"  Father  Sin,  the  sting  of  a  fly  has  cast  me  down  upon  the 

ground; 
Insects  have  brought  me  low  to  the  ground. 
Eabani  [has  sunk  down]  to  the  shades; 
Pestilence  has  not  snatched  him  away,  etc. 
The  lurking  demon  of  Nergal,   the  merciless   [has  not 

snatched  him  away]." 

[But  Sin  also  could  not  do  anything  for  Gilgamesh, 
nor  could  Ea,  to  whom  he  appealed  with  the  same  lament. 
But  Ea  besought  Nergal,  the  god  of  the  dead,  the  "  hero 
and  lord  "  (saying) :] 

"  Break  open  the  chamber  of  the  grave   [and  open  the 

ground], 
that  the  spirit  of  Eabani,  like  a  wind, 
may  rise  out  of  the  ground." 

When  Nergal,  the  hero  and  lord,  heard  this  prayer. 
He  broke  open  the  chamber  of  the  grave  and  opened  the 

ground; 
and  caused  the  spirit  of  Eabani  to  rise  out  of  the  ground, 

like  a  wind. 

Col.  IV  begins  with  a  dialogue  between  Gilgamesh  and 
Eabani;  the  former  asking  his  friend  to  describe  unto  him 
the  netherworld: 

'  Literally,  said  not  a  word. 


366        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"  Tell  me,  my  friend,  O  tell  me,  my  friend; 
the  appearance  (?,  looks)  of  the  land,*  which  thou  hast 
seen,  O  tell  me!  " 

But  Eabani  replied: 

"  I  can  not  tell  thee,  my  friend,  I  can  not  tell  thee. 

If  I  would  describe  to  thee  the  appearance  of  the  land  that 
I  have  seen, 

[surely,  Gilgamesh,  thou  wouldst?]  sit  down  and  weep." 

[And  Gilgamesh  said  unto  him?] :  "  Then  let  me  sit  down 
and  weep! 

[Bitter  and  sad?]  is  all  that  formerly  gladdened  thy  heart. 

[All  is  there — i.  e.,  in  the  netherworld?]  Hke  an  old  gar- 
ment that  the  worm  does  eat. 

What  thou  hast  done  [while  in  this  life?],  what  formerly 
gladdened  thy  heart. 

[All  is  gone?]  is  cloaked  in  dust.' 

The  rest  of  Col.  IV  and  the  whole  of  Col.  V  are  lost. 
Col.  VI  closes  the  whole  epic,  with  Eabani's  description  of 
the  joys  awaiting  the  hero  slain  in  battle  and  having  re- 
ceived due  burial;  and  bewailing  the  unhappy,  miserable 
lot  of  the  man  to  whom  are  denied  the  last  burial  rites; 
the  important  lesson  for  all  readers  of  the  poem  being, 
"  Take  good  care  of  your  dead."  He  is  properly  cared 
for  who — 

rests  on  a  soft  couch,  and  drinks  pure  water; 
the  hero  slain  in  battle — 

Thou  and  I  have  often  seen  such  an  one — 
His  father  and  mother  support  his  head, 
and  his  wife  [kneels]  at  his  side. 
Yea!  the  spirit  of  such  a  man  is  at  rest. 
But  the  man  whose  corpse  remains  [unburied]  upon  the 
field— 

Thou  and  I  have  often  seen  such  an  one — 
His  spirit  does  not  find  rest  in  the  earth  (i.  e.,  Hades). 

'  Here  =  the  netherworld,  Hades. 


THE   GILGAMESH   NARRATIVE  367 

The  man  whose  spirit  has  no  one  who  cares  for  it — 

Thou  and  I  have  often  seen  such  an  one — 
consumes  the  dregs  of  the  bowl,  the  broken  remnants  of 

food, 
that  are  cast  into  the  street. 

Then  follows  the  colophon  of  Tablet  XII,  and  of  the 
whole  poem,  which  thus  has  come  to  an  end. 

According  to  Professor  Haupt  ("  Contributions  to  As- 
syriology,"  vol.  i,  pp.  318,  319),  plates  16-19  o^  his  edition 
of  the  Nimrod-epic  belong  to  Tablet  XII;  Dr.  Jeremias, 
on  the  other  hand,  is  inclined  to  believe  that  these  frag- 
ments formed  part  of  another  recension  of  the  same  poem. 
The  fact  that  there  were  several  recensions  of  the  account 
of  the  deluge  goes  far  to  strengthen  the  contention  of  Dr. 
Jeremias.  The  fragments,  printed  on  plates  16-19,  are  por- 
tions pf  Cols.  Ill  and  IV  of  (?)  tablet.  The  mention 
of  the  hunter  (see  above,  p.  327);  of  the  Uchat;  the  address, 
"  my  friend,"  show  that  Eabani  is  the  speaker.  In  Col.  Ill 
he  curses  the  Uchat,  who  with  the  assistance  of  the  crafty 
hunter  had  "  brought  a  curse  upon  him."  He  hopes  that 
"  she  will  be  imprisoned  in  the  great  prison,"  curses  "  her 
charms,"  "  her  sisters,"  and  "  her  maidens."  Col.  IV  (pp. 
17  and  19  of  Haupt's  edition)  states  the  reason  why  Eabani 
curses  the  Uchat  (or  perhaps  Ishtar  directly).  Eabani  has 
gone  down  into  the  netherworld,  and  he  tells  his  friend, 
who  with  the  help  of  witchcraft  has  succeeded  in  bringing 
him  up  again,  what  he  has  seen  there: 

"  *  *  *  has  brought  me  back 

*  *  *  like  as  the  bird  of  darkness. 

I  have  descended?]  to  the  house  of  darkness,  the  dwelling 

of  the  goddess  Irkalla;  ^ 
to  the  house,  whence  he  that  enters  goes  out  no  more; 
to  the  road,  whose  way  turns  not  back; 
to  the  house,  whose  inhabitants  are  deprived  of  light; 
to  the  place  where  dust  is  their  sustenance,  their  food  clay. 

'  Goddess  AUatu. 


368       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

They  are  clothed,  like  a  bird,  with  feathered  raiment  (?). 

Light  they  see  not,  they  sit  in  darkness. 

In]  the  house,  my  friend,  which  I  have  entered, 

in  that  house]  crowns  are  cast  down  on  the  ground, 

and  there  live  those  who  had  worn  crowns,  who  in  days 
of  old  had  ruled  countries; 

to  whom  Anu  and  Belit  had  given  roasted  meat  to  eat. 

Now,  cold  meals  are  prepared,  and  water  from  leather  bot- 
tles is  poured  out  for  them. 

In  the  house,  my  friend,  which  I  have  entered, 

there  dwell  also  priests  and  ministers; 

There  dwell  soothsayers  and  enchanters; 

there  dwell  the  temple-anointers  of  the  great  gods. 

There  dwells  Etana,  and  there  dwells  Ner; 

There  dwells  also  the  queen  of  the  earth  (i.  e.,  of  Hades),  the 
goddess  Ereshkigal  (i.  e.,  Allatu). 

[There  dwells?]  the  scribe  of  the  earth,  bowed  down  be- 
fore her. 

*  *  *  and  reads  before  her, 

and  Ereshkigal  lifted  up]  her  head  and  saw  me." 


SOME  OTHER  ACCOUNTS  OF  AND 
REFERENCES  TO  THE  DELUGE 


A  TEXT  of  King  Ashurbanipal,  published  by  C.  F. 
Lehmann  in  his  book  "  Shamashshumukin,"  vol.  ii, 
'^  pp.  66  and  67,  states  that  Ashurbanipal  read  many 
tablets,  and  continues:  "  I  was  glad  to  read  also  the  tablet 
from  the  time  before  the  deluge." 

2.  A  text  published  in  the  fourth  volume  of  the  "  In- 
scriptions of  Western  Asia,"  plate  19,  No.  i,  contains  prob- 
ably an  account  of  the  deluge. 

3.  In  the  "  Zeitschrift  fiir  Assyriologie,"  vol.  iv,  pp. 
369  fol..  Dr.  Peiser  published  a  mythological  text,  with  a 
map  giving  a  primitive  picture  of  Babylon  at  the  time  of 
the  deluge;  here  Per-napishtim  is  especially  mentioned  as 
one  of  the  kings  who  ruled  before  the  flood.  The  text  is 
quite  fragmentary.  The  Persian  Gulf  was  conceived  of  as 
encompassing  Babylon,  and  round  about  this  ocean  lay 
seven  islands.  The  mountain  of  the  deluge  was  due  north 
of  Babylon,  but  still  within  the  space  inclosed  by  the  ocean. 
The  time  of  the  deluge  was  apparently  designated  as  "  the 
year  of  the  great  serpent." 

4.  A  most  important  new  fragment  of  a  Babylonian  ac- 
count of  the  deluge  was  found  by  Father  Scheil,  of  Paris. 
It  is  dated:  Month  of  Shebat,  day  twenty-eighth,  the  year 
in  which  Ammizaduga  built  the  fortress  at  the  mouth  of 
the  river  Euphrates — i.  e.,  not  much  later  than  2140  b.  c. 
The  subscription,  fortunately  preserved,  informs  us  that 

24  3^ 


370       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

the  document  was  the  tenth  chapter  of  a  story  whose  title 
was,  "  While  the  Man  rested,"  and  is  thus  part  of  a  story 
quite  distinct  from  the  account  contained  in  Tablet  XI 
of  the  Nimrod-epic.  The  total  number  of  lines  on  this 
tablet  was  originally  four  hundred  and  thirty-nine,  but 
there  are  only  preserved  a  part  of  the  first,  second,  sev- 
enth, and  eighth  columns.  The  first  column  is  in  very 
bad  condition  and  can  not  be  translated.  The  rem- 
nants of  Col.  II  read: 

that 

that  he  has 

that  he  should  kill,  that  he  should  destroy. 
In  the  morning  that  he  should  rain  down  the  extermina- 
tion, 
that  during  the  night  he  should  prolong  *  *  * 
that  he  should  rain  down  the  inundation  *  *  * 
The  rain  of  the  plain  he  will  make  great;  the  city  *  *  * 
That  which  Adad  shall  have  accomplished  in  the  city; 
He  says  that  he  will  overturn  (?)  the  land  *  *  * 
He  raises  a  cry  *  *  * 
(The  gods)  will  not  fear  *  *  * 

Col.  VII: 

Ea  spoke  the  word 

and  said  unto  me: 

"  Why  wilt  thou  make  men  to  die  *  *  * 

I  will  reach  out  my  hand  to  men  *  *  * 

The  deluge  of  which  thou  speakest  *  *  * 

Whatever  it  may  be,  I  *  *  * 

I,  shall  I  have  produced  (in  vain?)  *  *  * 

He  shall  be  informed  of  it  *  *  * 

To  the  end  that  he  build  *  *  * 

and  he  shall  beget  *  *  * 

That  they  may  enter  (into  the  ship  *  *  * 

That  Per-napishtim  (take)  the  oar  *  *  * 

That  he  may  come  *  *  * 

That  he  may  take  *  *  *  " 


SOME  OTHER  ACCOUNTS  OF  THE  DELUGE 


371 


Col.  VIII  alludes  to  a  god,  a  benefactor  of  the  human 
race,  and  closes  with  the  formula: 

Adram-chasis  utters  his  word 
and  speaks  to  his  lord. 

This  is  followed  by  the  lines  which  classify  and  date  the 
document. 

See  Scheil,  in  "  The  Independent,"  New  York,  January 
20,  1898,  pp.  7  and  8;  and  Morris  Jastrow,  ibid.,  February 
10  and  17,  1898. 


THE    MAGICAL    TEXTS 


THE  MAQLU   SERIES 

FIRST  TABLET 

INCANTATION.     I  call  unto  you,  gods  of  the  night, 
Together  with  you  I  call  unto  the  night,  unto  the 
veiled  mistress;  , 

I  call  at  evening,  at  midnight,  and  at  dawn. 
Because  the  sorceress  has  enchanted  me  (and) 
The  charmer  has  banned  me, 
My  god  and  my  goddess  cry  aloud  over  me. 
I  am  in  sore  distress  because  of  my  deafness, 
I  stand  upright,  I  do  not  lay  me  down  night  or  day. 
They  have  filled  my  mouth  with  cords. 
They  have  stopped  up  my  mouth  with  upuntu-weed, 
They  have  denied  me  water  to  drink; 
My  mirth  has  become  misery,  my  joy  sadness. 
Arise,  great  gods,  hearken  unto  my  complaint. 
Plead  my  cause  and  look  into  my  behaviour! 
I  have  made  an  image  of  my  sorcerer  and  my  sorceress. 
Of  my  enchanter  and  my  enchantress. 
I  cast  myself  at  your  feet  and  make  my  complaint: 
Because  they  have  done  evil  things,  and  have  sought  out 

that  which  is  impure. 
May  every  one  of  them  die,  but  may  I  live! 
May  their  sorcery,  their  witchcraft,  their  bewitchment  be 

loosed! 
May  the  binu-tree,  whose  bark  (?)  is  torn  off  (?),  purify  me! 
May  *  *  *  loose  me,  may  obstinacy  of  the  mouth  be  cast 

to  the  winds! 

372 


THE  MAQLU  SERIES  373 

May  the  mashtakal  herb,  of  which  the  earth  is  full,  make 

me  clean! 
May  *  *  *  of  which  the  grain  is  full,  loose  me! 
In  your  presence  will  I  shine  like  the  *  *  *  herb, 
I  shall  be  pure  and  clean  like  the  lardu  herb. 
The  incantation  of  the  sorceress  is  evil: 
Her  words  shall  return  to  her  mouth,  her  tongue  shall  be 

cut  out; 
Because  of  her  sorcery  may  the  gods  of  the  night  smite  her! 
May  the  three  night-watches  loose  her  evil  witchcraft! 
May  her  mouth  be  wax,  her  tongue  honey! 
May  the  word  harmful  to  me  which  she  has  spoken  melt 

away  like  wax! 
May  the  sorcery  which  she  has  used  be  dissolved  like 

honey! 
Her  knots  are  cut  in  two,  her  work  is  destroyed. 
The  field  is  full  of  her  words, 
According  to  the  command  which  the  gods  of  the  night 

have  given.     Pronounce  the  incantation. 

Incantation.     O  earth,  earth,  earth, 
Gilgamesh  is  the  lord  of  your  ban. 
Whatever  ye  do,  I  know; 
What  I  do,  ye  do  not  know. 

Whatever  evil  my  sorceresses  have  done  is  broken,  loosed, 
and  is  not.    Pronounce  the  incantation. 


Incantation.    My  city  is  ^appan,  my  city  is  Qappan. 

Two  are  the  doors  of  my  city  ^appan. 

The  first  toward  the  rising  of  the  sun,  the  second  toward 

the  setting  of  the  sun. 
The  first  toward  the  rising  of  the  sun,  the  second  toward 

the  setting  of  the  sun. 
I  carry  a  box,  a  jar,  and  mashtakal  herb, 
I  bring  water  to  the  gods  of  the  heavens. 
As  I  perform  cleansing  for  you. 
Do  ye  cleanse  me!     Pronounce  the  incantation. 


374        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Incantation.     I  have  cut  off  the  ford,  I  have  blocked  up 

the  wall, 
I  have  prevented  the  enchantment  of  the  whole  world. 
The  god  and  the  goddess  have  commissioned  me: 
"  Whom  shall  I  send  to  Belit  of  the  field?  " 
In  the  mouth  of  my  sorcerer  and  my  sorceress  thrust  a 

gag, 
Thrust  the  incantation  of  the  leader  of  the  gods,  Marduk! 
Though  they  call  to  thee,  do  not  answer  them. 
Though  they  speak  with  thee,  do  not  hearken  unto  them! 
I  will  call  to  thee;  answer  me! 
I  will  speak  with  thee;  hearken  unto  me! 
According  to  the  command  which  the  god,  the  goddess, 

and  Belit  of  the  field  have  given.     Pronounce  the 

incantation. 

Incantation.     These  images  of  my  enchanter. 

These  images  of  my  witch. 

Of  my  sorcerer  (and)  my  sorceress, 

Of  my  enchanter  (and)  my  enchantress. 

Of  my  male  deceiver  (and)  my  female  deceiver. 

Of  the  master  of  my  destruction  and  the  mistress  of  my 

destruction, 
Of  the  master  of  my  oppression  and  the  mistress  of  my 

oppression. 
Of  the  master  of  my  adversity  and  the  mistress  of  my 

adversity. 
Of  the  master  of  my  persecution  and  the  mistress  of  my 

persecution. 
Of  the  master  of  my  judgment  and  the  mistress  of  my 

judgment. 
Of  the  master  of  my  speech  and  the  mistress  of  my  speech. 
Of  the  master  of  my  planning  and  the  mistress  of  my 

planning, 
Of  the  master  of  my  thinking  and  the  mistress  of  my 

thinking, 
Of  the  master  of  my  hurt  and  the  mistress  of  my  hurt. 
As"  many  as  there  are  of  them,  I  know  them  not. 


THE   MAQLU  SERIES  375 

Sorcery,  witchcraft,  bewitchment,  wily  tricks  (?), 
Enchantment,  rebellion,  harmful  words,  love,  hate, 
Deceit,  rapine,  *  *  * 

*  *  *,  madness, 

*  *  *         *  *  * 

*  *  *  these,  their  images 

*  *  *  they  stand,  their  images  I  raise. 

Fire-god,  judge,  conqueror  of  the  wicked  and  the  enemy, 
conquer  them  and  I  shall  not  be  destroyed! 

They  have  made  images  of  me,  similar  to  my  images,  imi- 
tating my  likeness. 

They  have  seized  me  *  *  *,  they  have  shaken  my  neck. 

They  have  gone  forth  against  my  *  *  *,  they  have  bent 
my  spine, 

They  have  weakened  my  *  *  *,  they  have  taken  away  the 
courage  from  my  heart. 

They  have  roused  up  the  gods  against  me,  they  have  made 
my  strength  weakness, 

*  *  *,  they  have  bound  my  knees. 

They  have  filled  me  with  *  *  *  and  uncleanness. 

They  have  made  me  to  eat  *  *  * 

They  have  made  me  to  drink  *  *  * 

They  have  poured  over  me  unclean  (water). 

They  have  anointed  me  with  an  ointment  of  noisome  herbs. 

They  have  taken  me  for  a  corpse. 

The  water  of  my  life  they  have  cast  into  the  grave. 

They  have  enraged  gods,  kings,  lords,  and  princes  against 
me. 

Thou,  O  Fire-god,  who  burns  the  sorcerer  and  the  sor- 
ceress, 

Who  extirpates  the  bad,  the  seed  of  sorcerer  and  sorceress. 

Thou  art  the  destroyer  of  the  wicked. 

To  thee  I  call  as  to  Shamash  the  judge: 

Pronounce  my  judgment,  determine  my  fate, 

Bum  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress, 

Devour  my  enemies,  destroy  my  foes. 

May  the  fearful  day  overtake  them! 

Like  water  in  a  skin  may  they  perish  by  being  poured  out. 


376       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Like  the  cutting  of  stones,  may  their  fingers  be  cut  off! 
According  to  thy  exalted  command  which  changes  not, 
And  thy  sure  mercy  which  swerves  not.    Pronounce  the  in- 
cantation. 

Incantation.     Nusku,  great  god,  offspring  of  Anu, 

Likeness  of  his  father,  first-bom  of  Bel, 

Product  of  the  deep,  creation  of  Ea, 

I  raise  the  torch  to  give  thee  light,  even  thee. 

The  sorcerer  has  charmed  me.     With  the  witchcraft  with 

which  he  has  charmed  me  do  thou  charm  him. 
The  sorceress  has  charmed  me.    With  the  witchcraft  with 

which  she  has  charmed  me  do  thou  charm  her. 
The  enchanter  has  bewitched  me.     With  the  witchery 

with  which  he  has  bewitched  me  do  thou  bewitch 

him. 
The  witch  has  bewitched  me.     With  the  witchery  with 

which  she  has  bewitched  me  do  thou  bewitch  her. 
The  enchantress  has  bewitched  me.     With  the  witchery 

with  which  she  has  bewitched  me  do  thou  bewitch 

her. 
As  for  those  who  have  made  images  of  me,  similar  to  my 

images,  imitating  my  likeness. 
Who  have  taken  away  my  breath,  who  have  torn  out  my 

hair, 
Who  have  rent  my  garments,  who  in  anger  have  hindered 

my  feet  from  walking  in  the  dust. 
May  the  warlike  Fire-god  remove  their  incantation!    Pro- 
nounce the  incantation. 

Incantation.     I  raise  the  torch,  I  bum  their  images, 

The  images  of  the  demon,  the  evil  spirit,  the  spook,  the 

spectre. 
The  female  oppressor,  the  ghost,  the  vampire. 
The  male  demon  of  the  night,  the  female  demon  of  the 

night,  the  maid  demon  of  the  night. 
And  any  evil  which  seizes  a  man. 
Totter,  melt,  and  vanish! 


THE   MAQLU   SERIES  377 

May  your  smoke  ascend  to  heaven, 
May  Shamash  destroy  the  members  of  your  body, 
May  the  child  of  Ea,  the  conjurer,  cut  off  your  Hfe  (?)! 
Pronounce  the  incantation. 


SECOND  TABLET 

Incantation.     Nusku,  great  god,  counsellor  of  the  great 

gods, 
Guardian  of  the  free-will  offerings  of  all  the  Igigi, 
Founder  of  cities,  renewer  of  shrines. 
Brilliant  day,  whose  command  is  supreme. 
Messenger  of  Anu,  who  gives  ear  to  the  decrees  of  Bel, 
Who  is  obedient  to  Bel  the  counsellor,  mountain  of  the 

Powerful  in  battle,  whose  onset  is  fierce, 

Nusku,  fiery,  who  strikes  with  lightning  the  foes; 

Without  thee  no  table  is  prepared  in  the  temple. 

Without  thee  the  great  gods  do  not  smell  the  savour. 

Without  thee  the  judge  does  not  pronounce  judgment. 
********** 

I,  thy  servant  So-and-so,  the  son  of  So-and-so,  whose  god 

is  So-and-so,  and  whose  goddess  is  So-and-so, 
I  turn  to  thee,  I  seek  thee,  lifting  up  my  hands  to  thee,  and 

bowing  at  thy  feet. 
Burn  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress. 
As  for  my  sorcerer  and  my  sorceress  (?),  may  their  life  be 

destroyed! 
As  for  me,  grant  me  life  that  I  may  make  thy  heart  glad, 

and  that  I  may  humbly  serve  thee! 

Pronounce  the  incantation  in  a  whisper  in  the  presence  of 
an  image  of  wax. 

Incantation.     O  Fire-god,  fiery,  first-born  of  Anu, 
Thou  art  he  who  pronounces  my  judgment  and  proclaims 

my  fate. 
Thou  makest  light  the  darkness, 
Thou  bringest  order  into  confusion  and  disorder. 


378       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

To  the  great  gods  thou  givest  power  to  determine  fate. 
No  god  has  the  power  to  determine  fate  like  thee, 
Thou  art  he  who  gives  commands  and  behests. 

[Several  Hnes  missing.] 
Now  in  the  presence  of  thy  great  divinity. 
With  my  hand  have  I  made  of  bronze  the  images  of  the 

sorcerer  and  the  sorceress, 
Before  thee  have  I  placed  them  and  given  them  into  thy 

charge. 
Let  them  die,  but  let  me  live. 
Let  them  be  under  a  ban,  but  let  me  prosper, 
Let  them  perish,  but  let  me  increase. 
Let  them  become  weak,  but  let  me  wax  strong. 
O  Fire-god,  mighty,  lofty  among  the  gods. 
Conqueror  of  the  wicked  and  the  enemy,  conquer  them 

and  I  shall  not  be  destroyed. 
May  I,  thy  servant,  live,  may  I  remain  secure,  may  I  stand 

in  thy  presence! 
Thou  art  my  god,  thou  art  my  lord, 
Thou  art  my  judge,  thou  art  my  helper, 
Thou  art  my  avenger.    Pronounce  the  incantation. 
Pronounce  the  incantation  in  a  whisper  in  the  presence  of 

an  image  of  bronze. 

Incantation.     O  Fire-god,  fiery,  mighty  son  of  Anu, 
Strongest  among  thy  brethren  art  thou. 
Who  givest  judgment  like  Sin  and  Shamash. 
Pronounce  my  judgment,  determine  my  fate. 
Burn  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress. 
O  Fire-god,  burn  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress! 
O  Fire-god,  roast  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress! 
O  Fire-god,  burn  them! 
O  Fire-god,  roast  them! 
O  Fire-god,  overpower  them! 
O  Fire-god,  destroy  them! 
O  Fire-god,  carry  them  away! 

As   for   those   who   practise   evil   sorcery    and    noxious 
witchcraft, 


THE   MAQLU   SERIES  379 

Who  have  devised  evil  against  me. 

Cause  a  strong  one  to  take  away  their  possessions, 

Deprive  them  of  their  property,  and 

Cause  the  spoiler  to  lie  down  in  their  encampments. 

O  Fire-god,  strong,  perfect,  mighty. 

In  the  temple,  the  place  of  thy  retreat  (?)  how  long? 

At  the  sacrifice  of  Ea,  thy  begetter,  *  *  *  the  brilliant  god. 

Who  *  *  *  .    Pronounce  the  incantation. 

Pronounce  the  incantation  in  a  whisper  in  the  presence  of 
an  image  of  honey. 

Incantation.     O  Fire-god,  strong,  threatening  day. 

Thou  directest  gods  and  kings. 

Thou  pronouncest  judgment  upon  the  bad  man  and  the 
bad  woman; 

Stand  for  my  cause  like  Shamash,  the  warrior. 

Pronounce  my  judgment,  determine  my  fate, 

Bum  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress, 

Devour  my  enemies,  destroy  my  foes, 

May  thy  fearful  day  overtake  them!  Pronounce  the  in- 
cantation. 

Pronounce  the  incantation  in  a  whisper  in  the  presence  of 
an  image  of  clay. 

Incantation.     O  Fire-god,  powerful,  first-bom  of  Anu, 

Bright,  lofty  offspring  of  Shalash, 

Powerful,  brilliant,  eternal  name  among  the  gods. 

Giver  of  free-will  offerings  to  the  gods,  the  Igigi, 

Creator  of  light  for  the  Anunnaki,  the  great  gods. 

O  mighty  Fire-god,  who  devastates  *  *  *  , 

O  Fire-god,  full  of  strength,  who  destroys  the  cunning  and 
the  godless. 

Who  burns  the  wicked,  the  seed  of  sorcerer  and  sorceress, 

Who  extirpates  the  bad,  the  seed  of  sorcerer  and  sorceress, 

On  this  day  stand  for  my  cause,  and 

Overpower  the  wicked  who  bring  about  rebellion  and  sedi- 
tion. 


38o       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

As  these  images  totter,  melt  away,  and  disappear. 
So  may  the  sorcerer  and  the  sorceress  totter,  melt  away, 
and  disappear! 

Pronounce  the  incantation  in  a  whisper  in  the  presence  of 
an  image  of  bitumen. 

Incantation.    They  have  used  all  kinds  of  charms. 
To  entwine  me  as  with  a  rope. 
To  overpower  me  as  with  a  net. 
To  bind  me  as  with  a  cord. 
To  catch  me  as  with  a  trap. 
To  lasso  me  as  with  a  noose. 
To  tear  me  down  as  a  building, 
To  fill  me  as  with  dirty  water  from  walls. 
To  treat  me  as  the  razing  of  a  wall. 

^ut  I,  at  the  command  of  Marduk,  the  lord  of  the  festival, 
And  Marduk,  the  lord  of  the  incantation. 
The  enchanter  and  the  witch 
As  with  a  rope  will  I  entwine  them. 
As  with  a  net  will  I  overpower  them, 
As  with  a  cord  will  I  bind  them. 
As  with  a  trap  will  I  catch  them. 
As  with  a  noose  will  I  lasso  them. 
As  a  building  will  I  tear  them  down, 
As  with  dirty  water  from  walls  will  I  fill  them. 
As  the  razing  of  a  wall  will  I  treat  them, 
*  *  *  thy  *  *  *  the  image  of  the  sorcerer  and  the  sor- 
ceress. 

Pronounce  the  incantation  in  a  whisper  in  the  presence  of 
an  image  of  bitumen  over  which  gypsum  is  poured. 

COLOPHON 

The  second  tablet  of  the  "  Maqlu  Series," 

Written  according  to  the  original,  new  and  revised  (edi- 
tion). 

Palace  of  Ashurbanipal,  king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria, 
who  puts  his  trust  in  Ashur  and  Belit, 


THE   MAQLU  SERIES  381 

To  whom  Nabu  and  Tashmetu  have  given  a  liberal  un- 
derstanding (literally,  broad  ears), 

Who  possesses  a  clear  eye,  (and)  the  noble  art  of  tablet- 
writing, 

Such  as  no  one  of  the  kings  my  predecessors  had  acquired. 

The  wisdom  of  Nabu  *  *  *  as  much  as  there  was 

On  tablets  I  have  inscribed,  edited,  revised,  and 

For  my  inspection  and  reading 

Placed  in  my  palace. 

Even  I,  the  lord,  who  knows  the  light  of  the  king  of  the 
gods,  Ashur. 

Whoever  carries  it  away,  or  with  my  name  inscribes  his 
own  name, 

May  Ashur  and  Belit  in  anger  and  wrath  overthrow 
him,  and 

Destroy  his  name  and  seed  out  of  the  land! 

THIRD  TABLET 

Incantation.    Who  art  thou,  sorceress,  in  whose  heart 

Dwells  the  word  unfriendly  to  me. 

By  whose  tongue  my  enchantment  is  produced, 

By  whose  lips  my  bewitchment  is  produced. 

In  whose  footsteps  death  follows? 

Sorceress,  I  put  thy  mouth  under  a  ban,  I  put  thy  tongue 

under  a  ban, 
I  put  thy  wandering  eyes  under  a  ban, 
I  put  thy  ever-moving  feet  under  a  ban, 
I  put  thy  restless  knees  under  a  ban, 
I  put  thy  outstretched  hands  under  a  ban, 
I  bind  thy  hands  behind  thee. 
May  Sin  destroy  the  front  part  (?)  of  thy  body! 
May  he  cast  thee  into  an  abyss  of  water  and  fire! 
Sorceress,  like  the  circle  of  this  seal. 
May  thy  face  grow  pale  and  wan! 


382        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

THE  SHURPU   SERIES 

SECOND  TABLET 

Has  he  set  a  son  at  variance  with  a  father, 

A  father  with  a  son, 

A  daughter  with  a  mother, 

A  mother  with  a  daughter, 

A  daughter-in-law  with  a  mother-in-law, 

A  mother-in-law  with  a  daughter-in-law, 

A  brother  with  a  brother, 

A  friend  with  a  friend, 

A  companion  with  a  companion? 

Has    he    failed   to    loose   the   prisoner    or    to    free    the 

captive? 
Has  he  failed  to  permit  him  who  is  in  prison  to  see  the 

light? 
Has  he  said  to  the  prisoner,  "  Seize  him,"  or  to  him  who  is 

in  bonds,  "Bind  him"? 
Is  it  perhaps  a  sin  against  a  god,  or  a  transgression  against 

a  goddess? 
Has  he  vexed  a  god,  or  despised  a  goddess? 
Is  his  offence  against  his  god,  or  his  crime  against  his 

goddess? 
Is   it  violence  against  ancestors,   or  hate   against   elder 

brothers? 
Has  he  despised  father  or  mother,  or  insulted  an  elder 

sister? 
Has  he  given  in  little  things,  and  refused  in  great  things? 
For  No  said  Yes, 
For  Yes  said  No? 

Has  he  spoken  the  unfit  or  the  rebellious  word? 
Has  he  spoken  the  coarse  word? 
Has  he  used  false  weights? 
Has  he  taken  money  gained  unjustly,  or  refused  to  take 

money  justly  gained? 
Has  he  disinherited  a  legitimate  son,  or  recognised  an  ille- 
gitimate son? 


THE   SHURPU  SERIES 


383 


Has  he  set  up  the  wrong  landmark,  or  failed  to  set  up  the 
right  landmark? 

Has  he  removed  a  dividing-line,  a  boundary,  or  a  land- 
mark? 

Has  he  entered  his  neighbour's  house? 

Has  he  approached  his  neighbour's  wife? 

Has  he  shed  his  neighbour's  blood? 

Has  he  taken  away  his  neighbour's  garment? 

Has  he  failed  to  release  a  man  through  anger? 

Has  he  driven  an  honest  man  away  from  his  home? 

Has  he  broken  up  a  united  family? 

Has  he  taken  stand  against  a  superior? 

Is  his  mouth  straightforward,  but  his  heart  false? 

Does  his  mouth  consent,  but  his  heart  deny? 

Is  it  because  of  the  many  unjust  things  which  he  plans. 

That  he  dogs  (?)  justice  and  casts  it  off  (?), 

And  destroys  it,  and  drives  it  out,  and  brings  it  to  naught. 

And  *  *  * 

And  does  violence,  and  robs,  and  lets  be  robbed. 

And  puts  his  hand  to  evil? 

Is  his  mouth  loose  or  filthy? 

Are  his  lips  deceitful  (?)  or  rebellious? 

Has  he  taught  that  which  is  unfit,'  or  instructed  in  that 
which  is  unseemly? 

Has  he  followed  after  evil? 

Has  he  overstepped  the  bounds  of  right? 

Has  he  done  that  which  is  not  clean? 

Has  he  put  his  hand  to  sorcery  or  witchcraft? 

Is  it  because  of  the  grave  misdeed  which  he  has  done? 

Or  because  of  the  many  sins  which  he  has  committed? 

Or  because  of  the  unions  which  he  has  broken  up? 

Or  because  of  the  well-drilled  army  which  he  has  disor- 
ganized? 

Or  because  of  anything  wherein  he  has  despised  his  god  or 
his  goddess? 

Has  he  promised  with  his  heart  and  mouth,  but  not  ful- 
filled? 

Has  he  despised  the  name  of  his  god  by  his  gift? 


384        ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Has  he  consecrated  or  dedicated  (?)  anything,  but  kept  it 

back? 
Has  he  given  something  *  *  *,  but  eaten  it? 
Has  he  *  *  * 
Has  he  cut  off  the  accustomed  food-offering  (literally, 

dish)? 
Has  he  incurred  the  wrath  of  his  god  or  goddess? 
Has  he  stood  up  in  an  assembly  and  spoken  words  which 

were  not  meet? 
May  he  be  loosed  from  whatever  bans  him! 
Whether  banned  by  that  which  he  has  taken. 
Or  banned  by  fright. 
Or  banned  by  a  gift  which  he  has  made, 
Or  banned  by  any  living  being. 
Or  whether  he  pointed  with  his  finger  to  a  form, 
Or  banned  by  the  form  of  father  or  mother, 
Or  banned  by  the  form  of  elder  brother  or  elder  sister, 
Or  banned  by  the  form  of  friend  or  companion. 
Or  banned  by  the  form  of  god  or  king. 
Or  banned  by  the  form  of  lord  or  lady. 
Whether  he  has  brought  about  destruction. 
Or  has  gone  about  bent  on  destruction, 
Or  has  committed  a  rnisdeed  against  his  city, 
Or  has  given  out  reports  against  his  city. 
Or  has  disgraced  the  reputation  of  his  city. 
Or  has  touched  a  banned  one. 
Or  a  banned  one  has  touched  him. 
Or  has  slept  in  the  bed  of  a  banned  one. 
Or  has  set  upon  the  seat  of  a  banned  one. 
Or  has  eaten  at  the  table  of  a  banned  one. 
Or  has  drunk  from  the  cup  of  a  banned  one: 
He  searches,  he  searches. 
In  the  bed  he  searches. 
On  the  seat  he  searches. 
On  the  table  he  searches. 
In  the  passing  (?)  of  the  cup  he  searches. 
In  the  glowing  fire-pan  he  searches. 
In  the  torch  he  searches, 


THE  SHURPU   SERIES  385 

In  the  bellows  he  searches, 

On  the  tablet  and  the  stylus  he  searches, 

In  the  iq.BAR  and  the  iq.KA  he  searches. 

In  the  stalls  he  searches, 

Among  the  animals  he  searches. 

Among  the  water-buckets  he  searches, 

In  the  wells  he  searches, 

In  the  streams  he  searches. 

In  the  ships  *  *  *  he  searches. 

In  the  rising  and  the  setting  of  the  sun  he  searches, 

In  the  gods  of  the  heavens,  and  the  shrines  of  earth  he 

searches. 
In  the  shrine  of  lord  and  lady  he  searches. 
In  going  out  of  the  city  and  entering  the  city  he  searches. 
In  going  out  of  the  city-gate  and  entering  the  city-gate  he 

searches, 
In  going  out  of  the  house  and  entering  the  house  he 

searches. 
In  the  street  he  searches. 
In  the  god's  house  he  searches, 
In  the  road  he  searches. 
O  Shamash,  judge,  may  he  be  loosed. 
Loose,  Shamash,  lord  above  and  lord  below. 
Who  leads  aright  the  gods,  the  king  of  countries  art  thou. 
May  the  right  be  established  by  thy  word. 
May  he  set  up  his  *  *  *  in  thy  presence. 
Loose,  conjurer  among  the  gods,  merciful  lord,  Marduk. 
Loose,  god  of  the  householder.    Loose,  god  of  the  sinner. 
Loose,  god  of  the  transgressor. 
Loose,  Nergal,  lord  of  deliverance. 
Loose  ye,  Shuqamuna  and  Shimaliya, 
Loose  ye,  great  gods,  as  many  as  there  are  of  you, 
Loose,  fire-pan,  child  of  Ea, 
May  lord  and  lady  loose. 
May  Anu  and  Anatu  loose. 
May  Bel  loose,  the  king,  the  creator  of  all  that  is, 
May  Belit  loose,  the  Queen  of  Ekiur, 
May  Ekiur  loose,  the  temple  of  the  spouse, 
25 


386       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

May  Enki  loose,  may  Ninki  loose. 

May  Enshar  loose,  may  Ninshar  loose, 

May  Ea  loose,  the  king  of  the  deep. 

May  the  deep  loose,  the  house  of  wisdom. 

May  Eridu  loose,  may  the  house  of  the  deep  loose. 

May  Marduk  loose,  the  king  of  the  Igigi, 

May  ^arpanit  loose,  the  Queen  of  Esagila, 

May  Esagila  and  Babylon  loose, 

The  dwelling-place  of  the  great  gods. 

May  Nabu  and  Nana  in  Ezida  loose, 

May  Tashmetu  loose,  the  great  bride, 

May  Dayyanu  loose,  the  chief  (?)  of  Esagila, 

May  Iqbi-dunqi  loose,  the  bestower  of  favours. 

May  Durilu  and  Edimgalkalama  loose. 

May  Rabu  and  Diritu  loose. 

May  Enshushinak  and  Lahuramit  loose  in  Susa, 

May  Yabru  and  Humban,  the  king,  loose. 

The  mighty  gods. 

The  stars  of  the  south,  the  north,  the  east,  and  the  west. 

May  the  four  winds  blow,  may  they  loose  his  ban. 

May  Ishtar  loose  in  strong-walled  Erech, 

May  Nin-Eanna  loose  in  Eanna,  her  sanctuary. 

May  Anunitu  loose  in  Agade,  the  city  of  delight. 

May  Agade  loose,  may  Eulbar  loose. 

May  Ishhara  loose,  the  mistress  of  habitations. 

May  Shiduri  loose,  the  goddess  of  wisdom. 

The  spirit  who  protects  life. 

May  Girra,  the  great  Girra,  the  mighty  Girra  loose. 

May  Laz,  Hani,  and  GAL.HUSH.A  loose. 

May  Lugal-edina,  Latarak,  and 

Sharrahu  loose. 

May  DUN  and  Shamash  loose  by  their  name. 

May  TI.BAL,  Sakkut,  Kewan, 

And  Immeriya  loose. 

May  the  bow-star,  the  spear-star,  the  lance-star,  Mushta- 

barru-mutanu. 
And  Narudu  loose, 
May  Pasagga,  the  star  of  Sibzianna,  loose, 


THE  SHURPU  SERIES  387 

May  god  and  goddess,  as  many  as  there  are  of  them, 

On  this  day  take  their  stand,  and 

As  for  So-and-so,  the  son  of  So-and-so,  *  *  * 

His  sins,  his  transgressions. 

His  *  *  *  his  bans, 

*         *         *         *         * 

May  they  blot  out,  and  loose. 

May  they  drive  away  his  ban!    End  of  the  incantation. 

COLOPHON 

Incantation.  A  ban  of  any  sort  which  befalls  any  one  who 
is  a  child  of  a  god, 

Marduk,  the  conjurer  among  the  gods,  will  loose. 

The  second  tablet  of  the  "  Shurpu  Series." 

Palace  of  Ashurbanipal,  king  of  the  world,  King  of  Assyria, 

Who  puts  his  trust  in  Ashur  and  Belit, 

To  whom  Nabu  and  Tashmetu  have  given  a  liberal  under- 
standing (literally,  broad  ears), 

Who  possesses  a  clear  eye, 

(And)  the  noble  art  of  tablet-writing. 

An  art  of  such  a  sort 

As  no  one  of  the  kings  my  predecessors  had  acquired. 

The  wisdom  of  Nabu  *  *  *  as  much  as  there  was 

On  tablets  I  have  inscribed  *  *  * 

For  my  inspection  and  reading 

I  have  placed  them  in  my  palace. 

Even  I,  the  lord,  who  knows  the  light  of  the  king  of  the 
gods,  Ashur. 

Whoever  carries  it  away,  or  his  own  name 

Inscribes  with  my  name. 

May  Ashur  and  Belit  in  anger  and  wrath 

Overthrow  him  and  destroy  his  name  and  seed  out  of  the 
land! 

THIRD  TABLET 

A  ban  of  any  sort  which  befalls  any  one  who  is  a  child  of  a 

god, 
Marduk,  the  conjurer  among  the  gods,  will  loose. 


388       ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

A  ban  from  father  or  mother  which  befalls  a 

man  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  grandfather  or  gfrandmother        he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  brother  or  sister  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  seven  descendants  of  the  father's 

house  which  befalls  a  man  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  old  or  young  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  family  or  relatives  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  babes  or  sucklings  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  comrade  or  companion  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  friend  or  fellow  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  right  or  wrong  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  honour  or  shame  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  and  swearing  by  the  god  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  bellows  or  fire-pan  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  pointing  the  hand  toward  the 

fire  (?)  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  taking  fire  and  swearing  by  the 

god  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  throwing  fire  at  any  one  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  cup  or  table  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  bed  or  couch  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  drinking  water  out  of  an  un- 
clean cup  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  demanding  rather  than  paying  a 

debt  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  sitting  in  a  seat  before  the  sun  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  giving  judgment  for  a  bribe        he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  pulling  up  plants  in  the  field      he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  cutting  down  reeds  in  the  marsh  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  bow  or  chariot  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  bronze  dagger  or  spear  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  lance  or  crossbow  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  slaying  the  young  of  wild  ani- 
mals he  will  loose. 

A  bah  from  destroying  an  offering  (?)  or 

casting  an  alms  (?)  into  the  water    he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  setting  a  *  *  *  before  any  one  he  will  loose. 


THE  SHURPU  SERIES 


389 


A  ban  from  food  (?)  or  drink  (?)***         he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  coming  upon  (?)  a  friend  (?) 

and  killing  him  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  slaughtering  a  sheep  or  his 

*  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  refusing  the  request  for  one 

day's  water  supply  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  refusing  the  request  for  water 

privileges  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  tearing  up  plants  in  the  field     he  will  loose. 

A   ban   from    taking   a   water-bucket   and 

swearing  by  the  god  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  making  a  demand  upon  any  one 

in  the  stalls  or  among  the  animals       he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  conjuring  by  the  sun  when  it 

rises  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  swearing  by  the  god  with  un- 
clean hands  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  protecting  spirit  or  bull-colossus  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  tamarisk  or  date-palm  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  well  or  river  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  wall  or  ford  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  or  bridge  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  which  befalls  a  man         he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  consenting  and  then  refusing     he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  entering  the  precincts  of  a  god  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  damming  up  a  neighbour's  canal  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  eating  the  flesh  of  sacrifices      he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  being  hostile  to  an  enemy  rather 

than  becoming  friendly  to  him  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  fixing  a  dividing-line  or  bound- 
ary he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  destroying  a  chariot  or  its  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  drinking  water  out  of  a  bowl  (?)  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  in  a  river  or  spitting 

in  a  river  he  will  loose. 


390 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


A  ban  from  *  *  *  and  river  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  mountain  or  ravine  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  hill  or  wady  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  pass  or  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  a  reed  with  a  cord        he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  door  and  bolt  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  raising  a  weapon  in  a  crowd       he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  Ninib  *  *  *  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  shrine  or  sanctuary  he  will  loose. 

[Many  broken  lines  follow.] 

A  ban  from  entering  a  magical  circle  be- 
fore the  sun  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  a  banned  one's  touching  any  one  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  a  banned  one's  stretching  his 

hand  to  god  or  goddess  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  speaking  with  a  banned  one         he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  eating  the  food  of  a  banned  one    he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  drinking  the  water  of  a  banned 

one  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  drinking  the  lees  of  a  banned 

one  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  speaking  with  a  sinner  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  eating  the  food  of  a  sinner  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  drinking  the  water  of  a  sinner  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  drinking  the  lees  of  a  sinner    he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  making  intercession  for  a  sinner  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  exalting  *  *  * 

A  ban  from  humbling  *  *  * 

A  ban  from  transgression  or  demoniacal  pos- 
session he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  committing  an  error  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  sin  or  misdeed  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  rebellion  or  sedition  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  fire  or  fire-pan  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  or  Euphrates  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  or  assembly  he  will  loose. 


THE  SHURPU  SERIES 


391 


A  ban  from  dead  or  living  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  male  or  female  destroyer  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  known  or  unknown  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Anu  or  Anatu  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Bel  or  Belit  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Ea  or  Damkina  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Sin  or  Ningal  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Shamash  or  A-a  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Ramman  or  Shala  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Marduk  or  Qarpanit  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Nabu  or  Tashmetu  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  Ninib  or  Belit-Nippur  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  or  Gula  he  will  loose. 

A  ban  from  *  *  *  or  g^y  j^g  ^jjj  loose. 

[The  few  remaining  lines  are  mutilated.] 

FIFTH  AND  SIXTH   TABLETS 

Incantation.    An  evil  curse  like  a  demon  has  fallen  upon 

a  man, 
A  pain-giving  voice  has  fallen  upon  him, 
A  voice  that  bodes  no  good  has  fallen  upon  him. 
An  evil  curse,  a  ban,  disease! 

An  evil  curse  has  slaughtered  that  man  like  a  sheep, 
His  god  has  departed  from  his  body. 
His  goddess,  accustomed  to  care  for  him,  has  taken  her 

place  outside  (his  body), 
A  pain-giving  voice  like  a  garment  has  covered  him  and 

overpowered  him. 
Marduk  looked  with  favour  upon  him,  and 
Went  into  the  house  to  his  father  Ea,  and  spoke: 
"  My  father,  an  evil  curse  like  a  demon  has  fallen  upon 

a  man." 
The  second  time  he  spoke: 
"  I  know  not  what  that  man  has  done,  or  how  he  can  be 

cured." 
Ea  answered  his  son  Marduk: 
"  My  son,  what  more  can  I  tell  thee  that  thou  dost  not 

know? 


392 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


Marduk,  what  can  I  add  that  thou  dost  not  know? 
What  I  know  thou  also  knowest. 
Go,  my  son  Marduk, 

Bring  him  to  the  house  of  pure  libations. 
Release  his  ban,  and  loose  his  ban." 
As  for  the  disturbing  ailment  of  his  body. 
Be  it  the  curse  of  his  father, 
Or  the  curse  of  his  mother. 
Or  the  curse  of  his  elder  brother. 
Or  the  curse  of  an  unknown  murderess. 
May  the  ban  by  the  incantation  of  Ea 
Be  peeled  off  like  an  onion. 
May  it  be  cut  off  like  a  date. 
May  it  be  torn  off  like  a  husk, 

Ban!  By  heaven  be  thou  invoked,  by  earth  be  thou  in- 
voked! 

Incantation.    As  this  onion  is  peeled  off  and  thrown  into 

the  fire, 
And  the  burning  Flame  consumes  it, 
And  it  is  not  planted  in  a  garden, 
And  it  is  not  cultivated  by  ditches  or  canals. 
And  it  does  not  take  root  in  the  earth. 
And  its  stalk  does  not  grow,  and  it  does  not  see  the  sun. 
And  it  does  not  come  upon  the  table  of  god  or  king. 
So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery. 
The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin, 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints, 
May  they  be  peeled  off  like  this  onion,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them, 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 

Incantation.     As  this  date  is  cut  off  and  thrown  into  the 

fire, 
And  the  burning  Flame  consumes  it. 
And  it  does  not  return  to  the  bare  branch, 


THE  SHURPU  SERIES  393 

And  it  does  not  come  upon  the  table  of  god  or  king, 

So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery, 

The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin. 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints. 
May  they  be  cut  off  like  this  date,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them. 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 

Incantation.     As  this  husk  is  torn  off  and  thrown  into  the 

fire, 
And  the  burning  Flame  consumes  it, 
And  its  blossom  (?)  does  not  return  to  its  palm-tree, 
And  it  is  not  used  for  colouring  cloth. 
So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery, 
The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin. 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints, 
May  they  be  torn  off  like  this  husk,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them. 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 

Incantation.     As  this  sheep-skin  is  pulled  off  and  thrown 

into  the  fire. 
And  the  burning  Flame  consumes  it. 
And  it  does  not  return  to  its  sheep. 
And  it  is  not  used  as  a  garment  for  god  or  king. 
So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery, 
The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin. 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints, 
May  they  be  pulled  off  like  this  sheep-skin,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them. 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 


394'      ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Incantation.     As  this  goat-skin  is  pulled  off  and  thrown 

into  the  fire, 
And  the  burning  Flame  consumes  it, 
And  it  does  not  return  to  its  goat, 
And  it  is  no  longer  dyed, 
So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery. 
The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin. 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints. 
May  they  be  pulled  off  like  this  goat-skin,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them. 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 

Incantation.     As  this  wool  is  pulled  off  and  thrown  into 

the  fire, 
And  the  burning  Flame  consumes  it. 
And  the  weaver  does  not  weave  it  into  a  garment. 
And  it  is  not  used  as  raiment  for  god  or  king. 
So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery. 
The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin. 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints. 
May  they  be  pulled  off  like  this  wool,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them, 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 

Incantation.     With  upuntu  seed  my  hands  are  filled, 

With  heat,  fever  (and)  chills  my  hands  are  filled. 

With  oath  and  ban  my  hands  are  filled, 

With  pain  and  misery  my  hands  are  filled. 

With  disease,  sickness,  trespass,  misdeed,  crime,  sin,  my 

hands  are  filled. 
With  ills  of  mind  and  ills  of  body  my  hands  are  filled. 
With    enchantment,   apparition,    bewitchment,    and    evil 

witchcraft  my  hands  are  filled. 


THE  SHURPU  SERIES 


395 


As  this  upuntu  seed  is  burned  in  the  fire, 

And  the  farmer  does  not  sow  it  in  the  field, 

And  it  is  not  cultivated  by  ditches  or  canals. 

And  it  does  not  take  root  in  the  earth, 

And  its  stalk  does  not  grow,  and  it  does  not  see  the 

sun. 
So  may  its  ban  not  grow  up  in  my  heart. 
May  its  root  not  take  hold  of  my  back, 
May  its  stalk  not  bear  down  upon  my  breast. 
So,  the  oath,  the  ban,  the  pain,  the  misery, 
The  disease,  the  sickness,  the  trespass,  the  misdeed,  the 

crime,  the  sin. 
The  disease  which  dwells  in  my  body,  my  flesh,  (and)  my 

joints, 
May  they  be  burned  like  this  upuntu  seed,  and 
On  this  day  may  the  devouring  Flame  consume  them. 
May  the  ban  depart  and  may  I  see  the  light! 

Incantation.  He  turned  his  steps  toward  the  temple- 
women. 

Ishtar  directed  her  temple-women. 

She  set  a  clever  woman  upon  a  couch. 

Of  white  wool  (and)  of  black  wool  she  spun  on  the  wheel 
a  double  thread, 

A  beautiful  thread,  a  strong  thread,  a  thread  of  many  col- 
ours, a  thread  which  breaks  the  ban  in  two, 

Against  the  men  who  conjure  an  evil  ban. 

Against  the  curses  of  the  gods, 

A  thread  which  breaks  the  ban  in  two. 

The  head  of  that  man,  his  hands,  his  feet  he  bound, 

Marduk,  the  princely  son  of  Eridu,  cut  it  with  his  holy 
hands. 

Let  him  bring  the  thread  of  the  ban  into  the  field  to  the 
holy  place. 

Let  the  evil  ban  stand  aside, 

Let  that  man  be  pure  and  clean, 

Let  him  surrender  himself  into  the  gracious  hands  of  his 
god. 


396       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 
Incantation  for  the  loosing  of  bans. 

Incantation.    I,  the  high  priest,  kindle  the  fire, 

I  kindle  the  coals,  I  cast  in  the  lot. 

The  holy  priest  of  Ea,  the  messenger  of  Marduk  am  I. 

The  coals  which  I  kindled  I  put  out. 

The  fire  which  I  lighted  I  smother, 

The   grain   which   I   heaped   up   (i.  e.,   on   the   coals)   I 

stamp  out. 
As  I  put  out  the  coals  which  I  kindled. 
And  smother  the  fire  which  I  lighted. 
And  stamp  out  the  grain  which  I  heaped  up. 
So  may  Siris,  who  frees  both  god  and  man. 
Loose  the  knot  which  he  has  tied! 
May  the  knot  of  the  heart  of  his  god  and  of  his  goddess  be 

unloosed  for  him — namely.  So-and-so,  the  son  of 

So-and-so. 
On  this  day  may  his  sin  be  forgiven, 
May  it  be  destroyed  from  him,  may  it  be  loosed  from  him ! 

Incantation.     Peace,  O  warlike  Fire-god, 

May  the  mountains  and  the  streams  be  at  rest  with  thee, 

May  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  be  at  rest  with  thee. 

May  the  broad  sea  of  seas  be  at  rest  with  thee, 

May  the  street,  the  daughter  of  the  great  gods,  be  at  rest 

with  thee, 
May  the  kikal  plant,  the  product  of  the  herb,  be  at  rest 

with  thee, 
May  the  heart  of  my  angry  god  and  of  my  angry  goddess 

be  at  rest  with  thee. 
May  the  heart  of  the  angry  god  of  my  city  and  of  the  angry 

goddess  of  my  city  be  at  rest  with  thee. 
On  this  day  may  the  knot  of  the  heart  of  my  god  and  of 

my  goddess  be  loosed. 
And  may  the  ban  go  forth  from  my  body! 
Because  thou  judgest  by  thy  light. 
And  avengest  by  thy  sword. 
Pronounce  my  judgment,  determine  my  career. 


THE  SHURPU  SERIES 


COLOPHON 


397 


Incantation.    Dimetu  has  arisen  from  the  depths  of  the  sea.* 
The  sixth  tablet  of  the  "  Shurpu  Series." 
Copied  from  the  original,  and  *  *  * 
Palace  of  Ashurbanipal,  king  of  the  world, 
King  of  Assyria. 

SEVENTH   TABLET        « 

Incantation.    Dimetu  has  arisen  from  the  depths  of  the  sea, 
The  ban  has  come  down  out  of  the  heavens, 
The  evil  spirits  like  grass  have  covered  (?)  the  earth. 
To  the  four  winds  they  spread  brilliancy  like  fire,  they  send 

forth  flames. 
The  people  living  in  dwellings  they  torment,  their  bodies 

they  afflict, 
In  city  and  country  they  bring  moaning,  small  and  great 

they  make  to  lament, 
Man  and  woman  they  put  in  bonds,  and  fill  with  cries  of 

woe. 
In  heaven  and  on  earth  like  a  tempest  they  rain,  they  rush 

on  in  pursuit. 
Where  the  anger  of  the  god  is,  thither  they  fiee,  crying 

aloud. 
A  man  from  whom  his  god  has  departed,  they  fall  upon, 

and  cover  him  like  a  garment, 
They  break  loose  upon  him,  and  fill  him  with  poison, 
His  hands  they  tie,  his  feet  they  bind. 
His  sides  they  crush,  they  sprinkle  him  with  gall. 
With  oath  and  ban  his  body  is  afflicted. 
With  want  of  breath  (?)  and  coughing  (?)  his  breast  is 

weakened. 
With  froth  and  foam  his  mouth  Is  filled, 
Upon  that  man  a  cry  of  pain  has  settled,  he  is  completely 

undone. 
Night  and  day  he  runs  about,  he  can  not  sleep  for  pain. 

■  This  is  the  catch-line  to  the  seventh  tablet  of  the  series. 


398       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Marduk  looked  with  favour  upon  him,  and 

Entered  into  the  house  to  his  father  Ea,  and  spoke: 

"  My  father,  Dimetu  has  arisen  from  the  depths  of  the  sea." 

The  second  time  he  spoke: 

"  I  know  not  what  that  man  has  done  or  how  he  can  be 

cured." 
Ea  answered  his  son  Marduk: 
"  My  son,  what  more  can  I  tell  thee  that  thou  dost  not 

know? 
Marduk,  what  call  I  add  that  thou  dost  not  know? 
What  I  know  thou  also  knowest. 
Go,  my  son,  Marduk." 

[The  next  twenty  lines  are  missing.] 
*  *  *  mistress  of  the  field  and  the  high-place. 
May  Nikilite  (?),  lord  of  all  creatures,  transfer  his  severe 

suffering  to  the  swarming  life  of  the  earth. 
May  Damu,  the  great  conjurer,  make  him  of  good  spirits. 
May  Gula,  the  lady,  who  brings  the  dead  to  life. 
Heal  him  by  the  caress  of  her  fair  hand ! 
And  do  thou,  Marduk,  merciful  lord,  who  lovest  to  bring 

the  dead  to  life. 
Loose  his  ban  by  thy  pure  art  of  conjuring  the  living. 
May  the  man,  the  child  of  his  god,  be  pure  and  bright  and 

shining. 
May  he  be  washed  like  a  vessel  *  *  * 
May  he  be  cleansed  like  a  vessel  of  curds! 
To  Shamash,  the  chief  of  the  gods,  commend  him. 
May  Shamash,  the  chief  of  the  gods,  commend  him  safe 

and  sound  into  the  kindly  hands  of  his  god! 


A  RITUAL  TABLET 


[The  first  twenty-eight  lines  are  too  broken  to  translate.] 

ON   a   favourable   day   thou   shalt   consecrate   thy- 
self *  *  * 
Thou  shalt  put  on  a  clean  garment. 
Before  the  setting  of  the  sun  there  shall  be  *  *  * 
An  offering  for  Gula,  of  pure  water,  pure  *  *  * 
Unleavened  bread  made  of  wheat,  twelve  of  each,  and 

twelve  times  three,  or  thirty-six  in  all,  thou  shalt 

prepare. 
Thou  shalt  add  *  *  *  and  salt,  sprinkle  a  young  ram. 
Strew  the  censer  with  cypress  twigs  and  fine  flour,  and  pour 

over  it  sesame  wine. 
If  the  flesh  of  this  young  ram  and  the  *  *  *  is  without 

blemish, 
*  *  *  at  thy  right  hand, 

Then  shall  the  seer  arisq  and  go  before  the  *  *  * 
From  the  hide  of  the  young  ram  (thou  shalt  make)  a  leather 

cup  (?)  for  the  cedar  roots  (?),  a  young  ram  thou 

shalt  prepare. 
Before  Gula  the  leather  cup  *    *   *   wine  thou  shalt  pre- 
sent. 
After  the  stars  of  the  heaven  have  appeared  (?), 
Thou  shalt  prepare  three  tables  for  Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea, 
On  each  table,  twenty-four  loaves  of  unleavened  bread 

made  of  wheat. 
Three  times  twenty-four  loaves  thou  shalt  prepare. 
As  the  unleavened  bread  for  the  three  tables. 

399 


400        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Ten  measures  of  honey  and  curds  mixed,  oil,  oil  of  balsam, 

dates  *  *  * 
Wine,  to  the  amount  of  thirteen  qa,  shalt  thou  add  to  the 

unleavened  bread; 
A  measure  of  *  *  *  seed, 
*  *  *  flesh  *  *  *  four  in  number, 
Four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  to  the  amount  of  one  qa  thou 

shalt  place  thereon, 
A  cask,  containing  a  measure  of  sesame  wine,  thou  shalt 

place  thereon,  ten  pure  young  rams  *  *  * 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  the  shume  flesh,  and  the 

silqu  flesh  shalt  thou  bring, 
Thou  shalt  strew  the  three  censers  with  cypress  and  cedar 

roots  and  upuntu,  and  pour  over  them  sesame  wine. 
Thereupon  thou  shalt  prostrate  thyself,   and  then  thou 

shalt  clear  away  the  offering. 
At  the  rising  of  *  *  *,  thou  shalt  set  up  an  offering  (?), 

sprinkle  pure  water. 
Set  up  one  censer  toward  the  east  before  Marduk, 
One  censer  toward  the  east  before  the  protecting  god. 
One  censer  toward  the  east  before  the  protecting  goddess. 
Thou  shalt  set  up  a  table  behind  the  censer  which  stands 

before  Marduk, 
Place  thereon  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine. 
Set  thereon  three  times  twelve  loaves  made  of  wheat, 
Add  a  mixture  of  honey  and  curds  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 
Thou  shalt  set  up  a  table  behind  the  censer  which  stands 

before  the  protecting  god^ 
And  do  as  before. 
Thou  shalt  set  up  a  table  behind  the  censer  which  stands 

before  the  protecting  goddess, 
And  do  as  before. 
The  first  censer  which  is  before  Marduk  thou  shalt  strew 

(i.  e.,  with  cypress  and  cedar  roots,  etc.). 
Thou   shalt  take  the  hand  of  the  sacrificer  and   speak 

thus; 
"  May  thy  servant.  So-and-so,  offer  a  sacrifice   in  the 

morning. 


A   RITUAL  TABLET  4O1 

May  he  raise  the  staff  of  cedar,  and  stand  in  the  presence  of 

Shamash! 
May  thy  great  divinity  be  well  pleased  with  reference  to 

this  sheep, 
All  of  whose  flesh  is  unblemished,  whose  appearances  are 

auspicious." 
Thereupon  thou  shalt  offer  the  sacrifice; 
He  (i.  e.,  the  sacrificer)  shall  hold  the  sheep,  and  thou  shalt 

perform  the  sprinklings. 
Making  a  step  toward  the  slaughtered  animal. 
The  second  censer,  which  stands  before  the  protecting  god, 

thou  shalt  strew, 
And  do  as  before. 

The  third  censer,  which  stands  before  the  protecting  god- 
dess, thou  shalt  strew. 
And  do  as  before. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hin9a  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason,  sprinkle  salt  thereon. 
Lay  upon  the  table  of  Marduk,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason,  sprinkle  salt  thereon. 
Lay  upon  the  table  of  the  protecting  god,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason,  sprinkle  salt  thereon. 
Lay  upon  the  table  of  the  protecting  goddess,  light  the 

censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 

The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  himself, 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  the  goddess. 
Pour  out  the  sesame  wine  which  stands  upon  the  table, 
Take  away  the  censer,  and  prostrate  himself. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  himself. 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  the  protecting  god. 
And  do  as  before. 

The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  himself. 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Marduk, 
26 


402 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


And  do  as  before. 

Thou   shalt   perform   sprinklings   *    *   *   set   down   the 

bason. 
Prostrate  thyself  (?),  and  kneel  (?). 

As  soon  as  the  horizon  of  the  heaven  is  overcast  with  dark- 
ness, thou  shalt  bring  on  three  tables. 
Prepare  them  like  those  for  Anu,  Bel,  and  Ea, 
The  middle  table  for  Shamash  and  Ramman,  the  gods,  the 

lords  of  the  oracle. 
The    left    table    for   A-a,    his    (i.  e.,    Shamash)    beloved 

spouse. 
The  right  table  for  Bu-ne-ne,  the  messenger  of  Shamash 

and  A-a; 
Four  clean  young  rams,  two  for  Shamash  and  Ramman, 
One  for  A-a,  his  beloved  spouse. 

One  for  Bu-ne-ne,  the  messenger  of  Shamash  and  A-a. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  the  shume  flesh,  and  the 

silqu  flesh  thou  shalt  bring. 
Thou  shalt  strew  the  three  censers  with  cypress  and  cedar 

roots  and  upuntu, 
Pour  out  sesame  wine,  and  prostrate  thyself. 
A  liver  from  the  middle  table,  which  belongs  to  Shamash 

and  Ramman,  shall  be  geomanced  (?). 
If  the  flesh  of  this  young  ram  and  the  *  *  *  is  without 

blemish, 
*  *  *  at  thy  right  hand. 
Thou  shalt  sacrifice  a  lamb  to  the  protecting  god,  pour  out 

a  drink-offering,  and 
Place  it  at  the  left  of  the  offering,  (crying),  "  Shamash  and 

Ramman,;  great  gods! " 
The  seer  shall  place  the  divining-cup  in  position.    Without 

gift  or  present 
The  seer  shall  not  approach  the  place  of  judgment. 
Nor  shall  he  raise  the  staff  of  cedar,  (else)  they  (i.  e., 

the  gods)   will  not   announce  to  him  the  secret 

verdict. 
The  oil-diviner,  the  seer,  shall  cause  him  (i.  e.,  the  sacri- 

ficer)  to  raise  the  staff  of  cedar. 


A   RITUAL  TABLET  403 

And  shake  water  upon  the  oil.  If  the  first  gab  (i.  e.,  proba- 
bly a  certain  part  of  the  liver)  is  without  blemish, 
the  second  gab  without  blemish,  and  the  third  gab 
without  blemish, 

Then  shall  the  seer  set  himself  before  Shamash  and  Ram- 
man  upon  the  judgment  seat. 

And  give  a  true  and  righteous  judgment. 

Then  will  Shamash  and  Ramman,  the  great  gods,  the  lords 
of  the  oracle, 

The  lords  of  the  decision,  stand  up  for  him, 

Make  a  decision  for  him,  and  answer  him  with  true 
grace. 

Before  the  rising  of  the  sun  thou  shalt  prepare  one  offering 

for  Shamash; 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  Shamash, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  Ramman, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  Marduk, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  A-a, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  Bu-ne-ne, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  Kettu, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  Mesharu, 
One  censer  thou  shalt  place  before  the  protecting  god. 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

Shamash, 
Thou  shalt  place  thereon  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine, 
Thou  shalt  set  thereon  three  times  twelve  loaves  made 

of  wheat. 
Thou  shalt  add  a  mixture  of  honey  and  curds,  and  sprinkle 

with  salt. 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

Ramman, 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

Marduk, 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

A-a, 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

Bu-ne-ne, 


404       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

Kettu, 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

Mesharu, 
A  table  thou  shalt  place  behind  the  censer  which  is  before 

the  protecting  god. 
The  censer  which  is  before  Shamash  thou  shalt  strew, 
Take  the  hand  of  the  sacrificer,  and  speak  thus: 
"  May  So-and-so,  thy  servant,  offer  a  sacrifice  at  the  rising 

of  the  sun. 
May  he  raise  the  stafif  of  cedar,  and  stand  in  the  presence  of 

thy  great  divinity; 
May  thy  great  divinity  be  well-pleased 
With  reference  to  this  sheep. 
All  of  whose  flesh  is  unblemished,  whose  appearances  are 

auspicious." 
Thereupon  thou  shalt  offer  the  sacrifice; 
He  (i.  e.,  the  sacrificer)  shall  hold  the  sheep,  and  thou  shalt 

perform  the  sprinklings. 
Making  a  step  toward  the  slaughtered  animal. 
The  censer  which  is  before  Ramman  thou  shalt  strew,  and 

do  as  before. 
The  censer  which  is  before  Marduk  thou  shalt  strew,  and 

do  as  before. 
The  censer  which  is  before  A-a  thou  shalt  strew,  and  do 

as  before. 
The  censer  which  is  before  Bu-ne-ne  thou  shalt  strew,  and 

do  as  before. 
The  censer  which  is  before  Kettu  thou  shalt  strew,  and 

do  as  before. 
The  censer  which  is  before  Mesharu  thou  shalt  strew,  and 

do  as  before. 
The  censer  which  is  before  the  protecting  god  thou  shalt 

strew,  and  do  as  before. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  Shamash,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 


A   RITUAL  TABLET 


405 


The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  Ramman,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinqa  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  Marduk,  hght  the  censer, 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hin^a  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  A-a,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hin^a  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  Bu-ne-ne,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinga  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  Kettu,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hinga  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  Mesharu,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 
The  right  thigh,  the  hin9a  flesh,  and  the  shume  flesh  thou 

shalt  wash  in  the  bason. 
Lay  before  the  protecting  god,  light  the  censer. 
And  make  a  step  toward  the  censer. 

The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  himself, 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  the  protecting 

god. 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer. 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  him- 
self. 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Mesharu, 


406       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer, 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  him- 
self, 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Kettu, 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer, 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  him- 
self, 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Bu-ne-ne, 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer. 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  him- 
self. 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  A-a, 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer, 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  him- 
self, 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Marduk, 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer. 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  him- 
self. 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Ramman, 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer. 


A   RITUAL  TABLET 


407 


Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 
The  sacrificer  shall  raise  his  hand,  pray,  prostrate  himself, 
Clear  away  the  table  which  stands  before  Shamash, 
Take  the  four  jugs  of  sesame  wine  which  stand  upon  the 

table 
And  pour  them  out  before  the  censer. 
Take  away  the  censer,  prostrate  himself,  and  kneel. 


ISHTAR'S  DESCENT  TO  HADES 


TOWARD  the  land  of  No-Return,  the  region  of  dark- 
ness,* 
Ishtar,  the  daughter  of  the  Moon-god,  directed  her 
attention. 
The  Moon-god's  daughter  directed  her  attention 
Toward  the  house  of  darkness,  Irkalla's  dwelling-place. 
Toward  the  house  out  of  which  he  who  enters  never 

comes, 
Toward  the  road  whose  way  turns  not  back. 
Toward  the  house  where  he  who  enters  is  deprived  of  light, 
A  place  where  dust  is  their  sustenance,  their  food  clay. 
Light  they  see  not,  they  sit  in  darkness, 
They  are  clothed,  like  a  bird,  with  feathered  raiment. 
Over  door  and  bolt  is  spread  the  dust. 
Ishtar,  on  her  arrival  at  the  gate  of  the  land  of  No-Retum, 
Addressed  the  porter  of  the  gate: 
"  O  porter  of  the  waters,  open  thy  gate, 
Open  thy  gate,  let  me  enter! 
If  thou  dost  not  open  the  gate,  and  I  enter  not, 
I  will  shatter  the  door,  the  bolt  I  will  break  in  pieces, 
I  will  shatter  the  threshold,  I  will  tear  away  the  doors, 
I  will  bring  up  the  dead  that  they  may  eat  and  live. 
And  the  dead  shall  join  themselves  to  the  living." 

The  porter  opened  his  mouth  to  speak. 

He  addressed  the  Princess  Ishtar: 

"  Stay,  my  lady,  do  not  destroy  it  (i.  e.,  the  door). 

'  Or,  the  region  which  thou  knowest,  of  which  thou  hast  heard. 

408 


ISHTAR'S  DESCENT  TO   HADES 


409 


Let  me  go  and  announce  thy  name  to  the  Queen  Allatu." 

The  porter  went  within  and  addressed  Allatu: 

"  These  waters  thy  sister  Ishtar  has  crossed 

nu-kil-tu  sha  kip-pi-i  rabuti  da  *  *  *  (?)  " 

When  the  goddess  Allatu  [heard]  this. 

Like  a  fallen  tap-pu  tree  *  *  * 

Like  a  broken  ku-ni-nu  reed,  she  sank  down  and  spoke: 

"  What  does  her  heart  wish  of  me?     What  do  her  spirits 

desire? 
These  waters  have  I  with  *  *  * 

For  food  I  will  eat  clay,  for  wine  I  will  drink  [sewage], 
I  will  weep  for  the  men  who  have  left  their  wives, 
I  will  weep  for  the  concubines  who  have  been  torn  from 

the  bosom  of  their  masters, 
For  the  little  children  will  I  weep,  who  before  their  time 

[are  taken  away]. 
Go,  porter,  open  thy  gate  for  her. 
Do  unto  her  according  to  the  ancient  custom." 

The  porter  went  and  opened  for  her  his  gate: 

"  Enter,  my  lady;  may  Kutu  (i.  e.,  the  under-world)  rejoice. 

May  the  palace  of  the  land  of  No-Return  be  glad  at  thy 

presence! " 
The  first  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached  and 

took  off  the  great  crown  of  her  head. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  great  crown  of 

my  head?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  Allatu." 
The  second  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached  and 

took  off  the  ornaments  of  her  ears. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  ornaments  of  my 

ears?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  Allatu." 
The  third  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached  and 

took  off  the  chains  about  her  neck. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  chains  about  my 

neck?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  Allatu." 


410       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

The  fourth  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached  and 

took  off  the  ornaments  of  her  breast. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  ornaments  of 

my  breast?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  AUatu." 
The  fifth  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached  and 

took  off  the  studded  girdle  of  her  waist. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  studded  girdle 

of  my  waist?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  Allatu." 
The  sixth  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached  and 

took  off  the  bracelets  of  her  hands  and  the  anklets  of 

her  feet. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  bracelets  of  my 

hands  and  the  anklets  of  my  feet?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  Allatu." 
The  seventh  gate  he  caused  her  to  enter,  he  approached 

and  took  off  the  garment  covering  the  shame  of  her 

body. 
"  Why,  O  porter,  hast  thou  taken  off  the  garment  cover- 
ing the  shame  of  my  body?  " 
"  Enter,  my  lady,  for  such  is  the  custom  of  Allatu." 

As  soon  as  Ishtar  had  descended  to  the  land  of  No-Return, 

Allatu  saw  her  and  moved  angrily  toward  her. 

Ishtar  took  no  counsel,  she  threw  herself  upon  her  (Allatu). 

Allatu  opened  her  mouth  to  speak, 

She  addressed  Namtar,  her  messenger: 

"  Go,  Namtar,  open  my  [gate]  and  *  *  * 

Bring  her  forth  *  *  *  the  goddess  Ishtar. 

With  disease  of  the  eyes  [smite  her]. 

With  disease  of  the  hips  [smite]  her. 

With  disease  of  the  feet  [smite]  her. 

With  disease  of  the  heart  [smite]  her, 

With  disease  of  the  head  [smite]  her. 

Upon  her  whole  person  [put  disease] ." 

After  the  mistress  Ishtar  had  descended  to  the  land  of  No- 
Return, 


ISHTAR'S  DESCENT  TO  HADES 


411 


The  bull  did  not  mount  the  cow,  nor  did  the  ass  leap  upon 

the  she-ass, 
The  man  did  not  approach  the  maid  in  the  street, 
The  man  lay  down  to  sleep  upon  his  own  couch. 
While  the  maid  slept  by  herself. 

Pap-sukal,  the  messenger  of  the  great  gods,  with  counte- 
nance downcast  before  Shamash, 

Was  clad  in  sackcloth,  he  was  filled  with  grief. 

Shamash  came  into  the  presence  of  Sin,  his  father,  weep- 
ing, 

In  the  presence  of  Ea,  the  king,  his  tears  ran  down  his 
cheeks. 

"  Ishtar  has  gone  down  into  the  earth,  and  has  not  yet 
come  forth; 

After  Ishtar  had  descended  to  the  land  of  No-Return, 

The  bull  did  not  mount  the  cow,  nor  did  the  ass  leap  upon 
the  she-ass. 

The  man  did  not  approach  the  maid  in  the  street. 

The  man  lay  down  to  sleep  upon  his  own  couch. 

While  the  maid  slept  by  herself." 

Ea  in  the  wisdom  of  his  heart  created  a  man, 

He  created  Uddushunamir,  the  servant  of  the  gods: 

"  Go,  Uddushunamir,  set  thy  face  toward  the  gate  of  the 

land  of  No-Return, 
May  the  seven  gates  of  the  land  of  No-Return  open  be- 
fore thee. 
May  Allatu  see  thee,  may  she  rejoice  at  thy  arrival ! 
When  her  heart  becomes  at  rest  and  she  is  in  good  spirits, 
Conjure  her  by  the  name  of  the  great  gods; 
Lift  up  thy  head,  direct  thy  attention  to  the  water-skin  (?) 

(saying), 
'  If  you  please,  my  lady,  give  me  the  water-skin,  that  I  may 
drink  the  water  therefrom.'  " 

Allatu,  when  she  heard  this. 

Smote  her  thigh  and  bit  her  finger-tip: 


412       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

"Thou  hast  sought  from  me  a  favour  not  to  be  sought 

after. 
Begone,  Uddushunamir.    I  will  curse  thee  with  a  fearful 

curse: 
The  food  of  the  sewage  of  the  city  shall  be  thy  food, 
The  gutters  of  the  city  shall  be  thy  drinking-place. 
The  shadow  of  the  wall  shall  be  thy  station, 
The  threshold  shall  be  thy  place  of  residence. 
May  dungeon  and  prison-house  destroy  thy  strength!  " 

Allatu  opened  her  mouth  to  speak. 
She  addressed  Namtar,  her  messenger: 
"  Go,  Namtar,  destroy  the  palace  of  righteousness. 
Overturn  the  thresholds — ^for  the  posts  are  tottering — 
Bring  out  the  Anunnaki,  seat  them  upon  a  golden  throne. 
Sprinkle  Ishtar  with  the  water  of  life,  and  take  her  from 
my  presence." 

Namtar  went   and   destroyed   the   palace   of   righteous- 
ness, 
He  overturned  the  thresholds — the  posts  were  tottering, 
He  brought  out  the  Anunnaki,  he  seated  them  upon  a 

golden  throne. 
He  sprinkled  Ishtar  with  the  water  of  life  and  brought  her 

forth. 
He  led  her  out  through  the  first  gate  and  restored  to  her 

the  garment  covering  the  shame  of  her  body. 
He  led  her  out  through  the  second  gate  and  restored  to 

her  the  bracelets  of  her  hands  and  the  anklets  of 

her  feet. 
He  led  her  out  through  the  third  gate  and  restored  to 

her  the  studded  girdle  of  her  waist. 
He  led  her  out  through  the  fourth  gate  and  restored  to 

her  the  ornaments  of  her  breast. 
He  led  her  out  through  the  fifth  gate  and  restored  to  her 

the  chains  about  her  neck. 
He  led  her  out  through  the  sixth  gate  and  restored  to  her 

the  ornaments  of  her  ears. 


ISHTAR'S  DESCENT  TO  HADES  413 

He  led  her  out  through  the  seventh  gate  and  restored  to 
her  the  great  crown  of  her  head. 

"  If  she  *  does  not  give  to  thee  her  *  release,  then  turn 

thyself  to  her,^ 
Unto  Tammuz,  the  husband  of  her  '  youth, 
Pour  out  pure  water,  with  goodly  oil  [anoint  him] , 
In  fine  raiment  clothe  him,  a  flute  of  lapislazuli  let  him 

[play]. 

May  the  Uchati  *  wail  with  loud  [wailing] , 
May  the  goddess  Belili  *  [destroy]  her  ornaments, 
With  eye-stones  shall  be  filled  *  *  *  " 

The  lament  of  her  brother  she  heard,  (and)  Belili  destroyed 

the  ornaments  of  *  *  * 
The  eye-stones  which  were  filled  *  *  * 

"  O  my  only  brother,  do  not  let  me  perish ! 

On  the  day  of  Tammuz  play  for  me  the  flute  of  lapislazuli, 
the  samdu  flute  also  play  for  me; 

At  that  time  play  for  me,  O  male-mourners  and  female- 
mourners. 

On  [?]  instruments  let  them  play,  let  them  inhale  the  in- 
cense." 

'  Allatu.  '  That  is,  of  the  dead  person.  '  Ishtar. 

*  Harlots,  devoted  to  the  worship  of  Ishtar.        'A  sister  of  Tammuz. 


ORACLES  GIVEN  IN  FAVOUR  OF 
ESARHADDON 


To  Esarhaddon,  king  of  countries, 
Fear  not! 
As  for  that  calumny  with  which  he  has  pressed  his 
claims  against  thee, 
I  will  tell  him  that  I  will  not  support  him  (?). 
Thy  enemies 

Like  the  wild-boar  *  *  *  of  the  month  Simanu 
Shall  be  scattered  from  before  thy  feet. 
The  great  lady  am  I, 
I  am  Ishtar  of  Arbela, 
Who  thy  enemies 
Casts  down  before  thy  feet. 
What  are  the  words  of  mine. 
That  I  have  spoken  to  thee. 
Upon  which  thou  couldst  not  rely? 
I  am  Ishtar  of  Arbela. 
Thine  enemies  I  will  cut  off, 
I  will  hand  them  over  to  thee.    I  ^ 
Am  Ishtar  of  Arbela. 
When  thou  commandest 
A  forward  march, 
Fear  not! 
Thou  art  with  the  officers  (?), 

'  Or :  I,  Ishtar  of  Arbela,  in  front  of  thee  and  in  thy  rear,  will  march. 

414 


ORACLES   GIVEN   IN   FAVOUR  OF  ESARHADDON 

Into  the  midst  of  my  camp  (?) 
I  will  come  and  remain. 

From  the  mouth  of  Ishtar-la-talimiat, 
Of  Arbela. 

II 

King  of  Assyria,  fear  not! 
The  enemy  of  the  King  of  Assyria 
I  will  deliver  over  to  slaughter. 
In  thy  harem  *  *  * 

[The  rest  is  too  mutilated  to  translate.] 
From  the  mouth  of  Shinqi-sha-amur, 
Of  Arbela. 

Ill 

I  will  rejoice  with  Esarhaddon, 
My  king.    Rejoice,  O  Arbela! 

From  the  mouth  of  Rimute-allate,  of  Darahuia, 
Which  is  a  fortress  of  the  mountains. 


IV 
Fear  not,  Esarhaddon. 
I,  Bel,  am  speaking 
With  thee. 

The  beams  of  thy  heart 
I  will  support,  like  thy  mother 
Who  brought  thee  into  being. 
The  sixty  great  gods  with  me 
Will  support  (?)  and  protect  thee. 
Sin  is  on  thy  right,  Shamash  on  thy  left. 
The  sixty  great  gods  are  standing  round  about  thee. 
They  are  banded  together  on  the  site  of  the  city. 
Trust  not  in  men. 
Turn  thy  eyes 
Toward  me,  look  at  me. 
I,  Ishtar  of  Arbela, 
Have  made  Ashur  favourable  to  thee. 
Thy  youth  have  I  protected. 


415 


4l6       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Fear  not!    Honour  me! 

Where  is  that  enemy 

Who  is  hostile  to  thee? 

As  I  proclaim  (?), 

The  future  shall  be  like  the  past. 

I  am  Nabu,  the  lord  of  the  writing-reed. 

Honour  me! 

From  the  mouth  of  Baia  of  Arbela. 


This  oracle  contained  originally  twelve  lines,  of  which 
only  the  beginning  of  the  last  four  remain. 

VI 

I  am  Ishtar  of  Arbela. 

0  Esarhaddon,  King  of  Assyria, 
Within  Asshur,  Nineveh, 
Kalah  and  Arbela, 

Length  of  days 
And  everlasting  years 
To  Esarhaddon,  my  king, 

1  will  grant. 

Thy  great  supporter  (?) 

Ami. 

Thy  good  nurse 

Ami. 

Who,  for  distant  days 

And  everlasting  years, 

Thy  throne  beneath  the  great  heavens 

Have  established. 

With  pillars  (?)  of  gold 

Will  I  support  it  in  the  midst  of  the  heavens. 

The  light  of  the  diamond  * 

Will  I  cause  to  shine 

In  the  face  of  Esarhaddon,  King  of  Assyria. 

Like  the  crown  of  my  head 

*  Or,  with  Banks  :  the  light  which  surrounds  it. 


ORACLES  GIVEN  IN  FAVOUR  OF  ESARHADDON    417 

Will  I  support  him. 
Fear  not,  O  king; 
I  am  speaking  to  thee, 
I  will  not  oppose  thee. 

I  will  establish  thee  (?). 

I  will  not  put  thee  to  shame  (?). 

The  river  in  safety 

I  will  cause  thee  to  cross. 

0  Esarhaddon,  faithful  son. 
Son  of  Belit, 

Girt  with  might. 
With  my  own  hands 

1  will  make  an  end  of 
Thy  enemies. 

O  Esarhaddon,  King  of  Ass)Tia, 
Cup  which  is  full  of  herbs, 
Casket  which  is  full  of  shekels, 

0  Esarhaddon,  in  the  city  Asshur 
Length  of  days 

And  everlasting  years 

1  will  grant  thee. 

0  Esarhaddon,  in  the  midst  of  Arbela 

1  will  be  thy  goodly  shield. 

0  Esarhaddon,  faithful  son, 
Son  of  Belit, 

Plan 

With  understanding. 

1  love  thee 
Greatly. 

On  the  earth  is  thy  fear. 
In  the  mighty  heavens 
Thy  companionship. 
On  thy  right  I  will 
Cause  smoke  to  ascend. 
On  thy  left  I  will 
Cause  a  fire  to  consume. 
Dominion  over  [the  countries] 
27 


4l8       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Forever  *  *  *  will  I  give  thee, 
Forever  *  *  * 

[The  rest  of  the  column  is  lost.] 

From  his  presence 
Shall  not  come  forth 
He  who.  devises 
Secret  (?) 
Plots  (?), 
At  his  feet 
I  will  cut  them  off. 
Thou,  even  thou. 
Art  the  king,  my  king. 

From  the  mouth  of  Ishtar-bel-daini, 
The  seer  (?)  of  the  king. 

VII 
I,  the  lady  of  Arbela, 
To  the  mother  of  the  king: 
When  thou  makest  complaint  to  the  gods  (?), 
Saying,  "  Those  on  the  right 
And  on  the  left 
Do  thou  place  at  thy  side; " 
And  again,  "  Where  is  the 
Offspring  of  my  heart. 

Which  thou  hast  left  prostrate  on  the  plain?  " 
Now,  O  king,  fear  not! 
Shall  the  kingdom  be  weakened? 
Shall  the  power  be  weakened? 

From  the  mouth  of  Beltu-aba-ishkun, 
Of  Arbela. 

VIII 

Greetings  to  Esarhaddon^  King  of  Assyria. 

Ishtar  of  Arbela 

Will  go  forth  to  the  plain. 

Greetings  to  her  child. 


MONOLITH    WITH  SCULPTURED  PORTRAIT 
OF  ESARHADDON. 


ORACLES  GIVEN   IN   FAVOUR  OF   ESARHADDON    419 

To  the  midst  of  the  city  she  will  send, 
To  *  *  * 

[The  remaining  four  lines  are  too  mutilated  to  translate.] 

Fear  not,  Esarhaddon, 

I  am  Ishtar  of  Arbela. 

*  "^  *  good.   ;  ' ' 

Ishtar  (?)  of  Arbela 

Will  fill 

His  cup  (?). 

The  former  word 

Which  I  spake  unto  thee 

On  it  thou  didst  not  rely. 

Now,  therefore. 

On  the  later  one 

Rely,  and 

Honour  me. 

When  the  storm  (?) 

Is  raging. 

And  the  winds 

In  my  presence  honour  me. 

******** 

Out  of  my  palace 

I  will  bring  forth. 

Well-prepared  food  shalt  thou  eat, 

Well-mixed  drinks 

Shalt  thou  drink. 

In  the  midst  of  thy  palace 

Thou  shalt  be  well  established. 

Thy  son,  and  thy  son's  son 

Shall  enlarge 

The  kingdom 

By  the  favour  of  Nineb. 

From  the  mouth  of  La-dagil-ili, 
Of  Arbela.' 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS 


PRAYER  TO  MARDUK 

O  MIGHTY,  powerful,  strong  one  of  Ashur, 
O  exalted  prince,  first-born  of  Nu-Dim-Mud, 
O  Marduk,  terrible  one,  who  maketh  Eturra  to 
rejoice. 
Lord  of  Esag^Ia,  support  of  Babylon,  lover  of  Ezida, 
Protector  of  all  living,  patron  of  E-mahtila,  renewer  of  life. 
Protection  of  the  land,  benefactor  of  peoples,  far  and  wide. 
Forever  the  ruler  of  the  shrines, 

Forever  is  thy  name  acceptable  in  the  mouth  of  the  people. 
O  Marduk,  great  lord  *  *  * 
By  thy  illustrious  command,  Let  me  live,  let  me  prosper 

and 
Let  me  honour  thy  divinity! 
When  I  plan,  let  me  attain  (ray  plan), 
Establish  truth  in  my  mouth. 
Put  (?)  kindness  in  my  heart. 
Return  and  be  established.     May  they  proclaim  favours 

to  me! 
May  my  god  stand  at  my  right  hand! 
May  my  goddess  stand  at  my  left  hand! 
May  my  god,  my  benefactor,  establish  himself  at  my  side. 
To  give  and  to  command,  to  hearken  and  to  show  favour! 
Let  the  word  I  speak,  when  I  speak,  be  propitious. 
O  Marduk,  great  lord,  command  life. 
The  life  of  my  life  do  thou  command! 
When  I  bow  myself  before  thee  joyfully,  may  I  be  satisfied! 

420 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS  421 

May  Bel  be  thy  light,  may  Ea  make  thee  to  rejoice! 
May  the  gods  of  the  world  be  tributary  to  thee! 
May  the  great  gods  please  thy  heart! 


PRAYER  TO   MARDUK 

O  Marduk,  lord  of  countries,  terrible  one  *  *  * 

Powerful,  independent,  perfect  *  *  * 

Exalted,  lofty,  whose  *  *  *  can  not  be  changed 

[The  next  eight  lines  are  too  badly  broken  to  translate.] 

Lord  of  the  fountains,  mountains,  and  seas,  overseer  of  the 

mountains, 
Lords  of  *  *  *  and  fortresses,  who  directeth  the  course 

of  the  rivers, 
Bestower  of  corn  and  grain  (?),  grower  of  wheat  and 

barley  (?),  who  maketh  the  green  herb  to  spring 

forth. 
Thou  createst  what  god  and  goddess  create,  in  the  midst  of 

their  *  *  *  art  thou. 
Ruler  of  Anunnaki,  leader  of  the  Igigi, 
Wise  one,  first-born  of  Ea,  creator  of  all  mankind. 
Lord  art  thou,  and  like  a  father  and  a  mother  in  *  *  *  art 

thou, 
And  thou,  like  the  Sun-god,  makest  light  their  darkness. 

[Twenty-four  lines  omitted.] 

O  my  lord,  stand  by  me  at  this  time,  and  hear  my  cry, 
pronounce  judgment  and  determine  fate. 

The  sickness  of  *  *  *  do  thou  destroy  and  thfe  disease  of 
my  body  do  thou  take  away.'  ' 

O  my  god  and  goddess,  judge  mankind  and  *■  *  * 

By  commarld  of  thy  mouth,  may  no  evil  approach  me, 
the  magic  of  the  sorcerer  and  sorceress! 

PRAYER  TO   NABU 

O  PRINCE,  pre-eminent,  first-bom  of  Marduk, 
O  prudent  ruler  (?),  oflfspring  of  Qarpanit, 


422       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

O  Nabu,  bearer  of  the  tablet  of  the  fate  of  the  gods,  di- 
rector of  Esagila, 

Lord  of  Ezida,  protection  of  Borsippa, 

Beloved  of  Ea,  granter  of  life, 

Patron  of  Babylon,  protector  of  the  living, 

God  of  inhabited  hills  (?),  of  the  fortress  of  the  people,  lord 
of  temples, 

Thy  name  is  *  *  *  in  the  mouth  of  the  people,  O  Shedu! 

Son  of  the  great  prince,  Marduk,  in  thy  mouth  is 
truth! 

In  thy  illustrious  name,  by  command  of  thy  great  di- 
vinity, 

I,  So-and-so,  son  of  So-and-so,  who  am  grievously  ill,  thy 
servant. 

Whom  the  hand  of  the  demon  and  the  poison  of  *  *  * 

May  I  live  and  prosper  *  *  * 

Establish  truth  in  my  mouth. 

Put  (?)  kindness  in  my  heart, 

Return  and  be  established.  May  they  proclaim  favours 
to  me! 

May  my  god  stand  at  my  right  hand! 

May  my  goddess  stand  at  my  left  hand! 

May  the  favourable  Shedu,  the  favourable  Lamassu  *  *  * 
with  me! 

[The  following  lines  are  too  badly  broken  to  be  translated.  J 

PRAYER  TO  BAU 

0  Bau,  mighty  mistress,  merciful  mother,,  who  dwellest 

in  the  brilliant  heavens,' 

1  beseech  thee,  my  mistress,  stand  and  hearken  unto  me; 

I  have  sought  thee,  I  have  turned  to  thee,  like  the  gar- 
ment (?)  of  my  god  and  goddess  have  I  seized  thy 
garment  (?), 

Since  to  pronounce  judgments,  to  determine  destinies. 
To  raise  to  life,  to  grant  prosperity  belongs  to  thee; 
Since  thou  knowest  to  protect,  to  benefit  and  to  save, 
O  Bau,  mighty  mistress,  merciful  mother. 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS  423 

Among  the  many  stars  of  the  heavens, 

[My  mistress],   I   have  turned  to   thee,   I   have  given 

heed. 
Accept  from  me  the  upuntu  plant  and  receive  my  supphcar 

tion. 
[May  I  send  thee]  to  my  god  who  is  angry,  to  my  goddess 

who  is  angry  with  me; 
[To  the  god  of  my  city]  who  is  wroth  and  enraged  with 

me  *  *  * 
O  Ban,  mighty  mistress,  at  the  word  of  thy  exalted  com- 
mand, which  in  Ekur  [can  not  be  altered], 
And  thy  eternal  grace  which  [changeth  not]. 
Let  my  wrathful  god  return,  let  my  angry  goddess  *  *  * 
Let  the  god  of  my  city  (return)  who  is  wroth  with  me  and 

whose. heart  is  enraged  with  me. 
Let  him  who  is  angry  be  at  rest,  him  who  is  enraged  [be 

pacified] ! 
O  Bau,  mighty  mistress,  thou  dost  hold  *  *  * 
To  Marduk,  king  of  the  gods,  my  merciful  lord  *  *  * 
Broad  is  thy  protection,  great  is  thy  compassion  *  *  * 
The  gift  of  favour  and  life  do  thou  [bestow  on  me] . 
May  I  gladderi  thy  heart;  may  I  bow  in  humility  before 

thee!  -'   -  n    ■ 

PRAYER  TO  NERGAL 

O  MIGHTY  lord,  exalted,  first-born  of  NU.NAM.NIR, 

Chief  of  the  Anunnaki,  lord  of  battle, 

Oflfspring  of  KU.TU.SHAR,  the  great  queen, 

Nergal,  most  powerful  of  the  gods,  beloved  of  NIN.MIN.- 

NA, 
Thou  art  brilliant  in  the  bright  heavens,  lofty  is  thy  posi- 
tion; 
Thou  art  great,  in  the  Under  World  and  the  benefactor  of 

<^-Q       'I*        *(•        'F 

With  Ea  in  the  assembly  of  the  gods,  inscribe  thy  counsel. 
With  Sin  in  the  heavens,  thou  seekest  all  things. 
Bel,  thy  father,  hath  given  thee  the  Black-headed  people, 
all  living  creatures. 


424 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


The  cattle  of  Nergal,  created  things,  he  hath  placed  in  thy 
hands. 

I,  So-and-so,  the  son  of  So-and-so  *  *  *  thy  servant! 

The  *  *  *  of  god  and  goddess  are  laid  upon  me! 

Raid  and  destruction  are  in  my  house. 

Because  thou  art  kind,  I  have  turned  to  thy  divinity. 

Because  thou  art  forgiving,  I  have  sought  for  thee. 

Because  thou  dost  look  with  favour  *  *  * 

Because  thou  art  merciful,  I  have  stood  before  thee! 

Look  with  true  favour  upon  me  and  hearken  to  my 
cry. 

May  thy  angry  heart  be  at  rest! 

Absolve  my  sin,  [free  me  from]  my  iniquity  *  *  * 

O  angry  god  and  angry  goddess  *  *  * 

Let  me  proclaim  thy  g^reatness!  let  me  bow  in  humility  be- 
fore thee! 

PRAYER  TO  NINIB 

O  MIGHTY  son,  first-bom  of  Bel, 

Powerful,  perfect,  offspring  of  Esharra, 

Clothed  with  terror,  filled  with  violence; 

Great  storm,  whose  attack  can  not  be  withstood. 

Mighty  is  thy  station  among  the  great  gods. 

In  Ekur,  the  festival  house,  exalted  is  thy  head, 

And  Bel,  thy  father,  hath  granted  thee 

That  the  commands  for  all  the  gods  be  intrusted  to  thy 

hand. 
Thou  pronouncest  judgments  for  mankind.   ■ 
Thou  giiidest  aright  the  one  without  a  guide,  the  one  who 

is  in  need. 
Thou  takest  the  hand  of  the  weak,  thou  liftest  up  the  one 

who  is  not  strong. 
Thou  bringest  back  the  body  of  him  who  has  been  sent 

down  to  the  Lower  World. 
Thou  absolvest  from  sin  the  one  who  has  sinned. 
Thou  speedily  bringest  into  favour  the  one  with  whom  his 

god  is  angry. 
O  Ninib,  chief  of  the  gods,  a  warrior  art  thou. 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS  425 

I,  So-and-so,  son  of  So-and-so,  whose  god  is  So-and-so, 
whose  goddess  is  So-and-so, 

Have  bound  for  thee  a  cord  *  *  *  have  I  offered  thee; 

I  have  offered  thee  tarrinnu,  a  goodly  odour. 

I  have  poured  out  for  thee  mead,  a  drink  made  from 
grain. 

May  the  gods  of  Bel  stand  with  thee! 

May  the  gods  of  Ekur  stand  with  thee! 

Look  with  true  favour  upon  me  and  hearken  to  my  cry, 

Receive  my  supplication  and  accept  my  prayer. 

Let  my  words  be  acceptable  unto  thee. 

Turn  with  favour  toward  me,  thy  worshipper. 

Thy  face  have  I  beheld,  may  I  attain  prosperity. 

O  thou  who  lookest  with  favour,  look  with  true  favour 
upon  me. 

Absolve  my  sin,  free  me  from  my  iniquity, 

Remove  my  disgrace,  and  cast  from  me  my  transgres- 
sion. 

May  my  gods  and  goddesses  command  me  and  may  they 
declare  my  good  fortune! 

May  I  gladden  thy  heart,  may  I  bow  in  humility  before 
thee! 

PRAYERS  TO  THE  SUN-GOD 

I 

O  Shamash,  great  lord,  whom  I  ask,  with  true  grace  an- 
swer me. 

From  this  day,  the  third  day  of  this  month,  lyyar,  to  the 
eleventh  day  of  Ab  of  this  year — 

A  period  covering  one  hundred  days  and  one  hundred 
nights — ^is  a  set  time  for  priestly  activity.  In  this 
set  time 

Will  Kashtariti  with  his  soldiers,  or  the  soldiers  of  the 
Gimirri, 

Or  the  soldiers  of  the  Medes,  or  the  soldiers  of  the  Manni, 
or  any  enemy,  as  many  as  there  are. 

Have  success  with  their  plans?  Will  they,  either  by  over- 
throw, or  by  might, 


426       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Or  by  contest,  battle,  and  war,  or  by  cutting  through,  or  by 

making  breaches  with  ipal  and  kipal, 
Or  by  battering-rams,  or  by  war-engines,  or  by  fam- 
ine. 
Or  by  mention  (?)  of  the  names  of  god  and  goddess,  or  by 

friendly  speech  and  friendly  advances. 
Or  by  any  work  of  diplomacy,  such  as  is  used  in  the 

taking  of  a  city. 
Seize  the  city  Kishassu,  will  they  make  entrance  into  that 

city  Kishassu, 
Will  their  hands  capture  that  city  Kishassu, 
Will  it  fall  to  their  hands?    Thy  great  divinity  knows. 
Is  the  taking  of  that  city  Kishassu  by  the  hand  of  any 

enemy,  as  many  as  there  are. 
From  this  day  to  the  day  of  the  time  set  by  me,  by  com- 
mand or,  by  order  of  thy  great  divinity, 
O  Shamash,  great  lord,  commanded,  determined?    Will 

one  see  it,  will  one  hear  it? 
Heed  not  what  may  come  after  my  set  time!    Heed  not 

that  their  hearts  plan  against  (?)  and  *  *  *  ! 
Heed  not  that  they  bring  about  a  massacre  and  a  raid  on 

their  field! 
Heed  not  what  the  chief  offering  of  this  day  may  be, 

whether  good  or  bad;  a  stormy  day  on  which  it 

rains! 
Heed  not  that  somethitig  Unclean  may  have  produced 

uncleanness  at  the  place  of  vision  and  rendered  it 

unclean!  '■'■■■ 

Heed  not  that  the  lamb  of  thy  divinity,  which  is  looked 

upon  foi-  vision,  be  imperfect  and  with  blemish!  ' 
Heed  not  that  he  who  touches  the  forepart  of  the  lamb 

may  have  put  on  his  garment  for  sacrifice  as  arshati, 

or  have 
Eaten,  drunk,  or  rubbed  upon  himself  something  unclean, 

(or)  may  have  bent  (?),  pressed  (?),  and  put  down 

the  kun  of  the  hand! 
Heed  not  that  in  the  mouth  of  the  son  of  the  seer,  thy 

servant,  a  word  may  have  been  passed  over  in  haste! 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS 


427 


So  *  *  *  or  SO  *  *  =*5,  I  ask  thee,  O  Shamash,  great  lord, 
Whether  from  this  day,  the  third  day  of  this  month  lyyar, 

to  the  eleventh  day  of  Ab  of  this  year, 
Kashtariti  with  his  soldiers,  or  the  soldiers  of  the  Gimirri, 

or  the  soldiers  of  the  Manni, 
Or  the  soldiers  of  the  Medes,  or  any  enemy,  as  many  as 

there  are. 
Will  seize  that  city  Kishassu,  will  they  make  entrance  into 

that  city  Kishassu? 
Will  their  hands  capture  that  city  Kishassu,  will  it  fall  to 

their  hands?  ' 

i  [Here  follow  omens. j 

On  account  of  this  lamb,  grant  assistance,  and  true  grace, 

auspicious  (?)  appearances  (?), 
*  *  *  favours  bringing  good  fortune — the  command  of 

the  mouth  of  thy  great  divinity — 
Grant  that  I  may  see! 

May  it  come  unto  thy  great  divinity,  O  Shamash,  great 
lord,  and  may  it  (thou)  answer  with  an  oracle! 

[Here  follow  omens.J 

II 

O  Shamash,  great  lord,  whom  I  ask,  with  true  grace 

answer  me! 
Dur-Bel,  a  fortress  of  Esarhaddon,  King  of  Assyria,  which 

lies  on  the  border  > 

Of  the  Manni,  and  which  the  Manni  have  taken  and  hold 

as  their  own — 
j^jay  *  *  *  the  rab-shak,  with  soldiers,  horses,  forces,  as 

many  as  he  wishes, 
March  to  retake  that  city  Dur-Bel!    By  contest. 
Battle  or  war,  or  by  friendly  speech  and  friendly  advances. 
Or  by  famine,  hunger,  or  distress  (?)*** 
Or  by  might,  by  cutting  through,  by  tearing  down  (?)  the 

wall. 


428       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Or  by  battering-rams  or  by  lulimiti,  or 

By  mention  (?)  of  the  names  of  god  and  goddess,  or  by 

any  work  of  diplomacy,  such  as  is  used  in  the 

taking  of  a  city. 
Will  the  forces  of  Esarhaddon,  King  of  Assyria,  seize  that 

city  Dur-Bel? 
Will  that  city  Dur-Bel  fall  to  their  hands? 
Thy  great  divinity  knows.    Will  one  see  it,  will  one  hear  it? 
Heed  not  what  the  chief  offering  of  this  day  may  be, 

whether  good  or  bad! 
Heed  not  that  something  unclean  may  have  produced 

uncleanness  at  the  place  of  vision  and  rendered  it 

unclean! 
Heed  not  that  in  this  place  something  unclean  may  have 

been  looked  upon  for  vision! 
Heed  not  that  an  unclean  AZAG  may  have  touched  the 

sacrifice,  or  that  something  may  have  been  done  to 

the  sacrifice! 
Heed  not  that  the  lamb  of  thy  divinity,  which  is  looked 

upon  for  vision;  be  imperfect  and  with  blemish! 
Heed  not  that  he  who  touches  the  forepart  of  the  lamb 

may  have  put  on  his  garment  for  sacrifice  as  arshati, 

or  have 
Eaten,  drunk,  or  rubbed  upon  himself  something  unclean, 

or  may  have  bent  (?),  pressed  (?),  and  put  down  (?) 

the  kun  of  his  hand! 
Heed  not  that  in  the  mouth  of  the  son  of  the  seer,  thy 

servant,  a  word  may  have  been  passed  over  in  haste! 
So  *  *  *  or  so  *  *  *  I  ask  thee,  O  Shamash,  great  lord. 
When  the  forces  of  Esarhaddon, '  King  of  Assyria,  march 
To  retake  Dur-Bel,  the  fortress  which  lies  on  the  border  of 

the  Manni, 
And  that  city  Dur-Bel  falls  to  their  hands. 
On  account  of  this  lamb  grant  assistance,  and  true  grace, 

auspicious  (?)  appearances  (?) 
*  *  *  favours  bringing  good  fortune — the  command  of 

the  mouth  of  thy  great  divinity — 
Grant  that  I  may  see! 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS 


429 


May  it  come  unto  thy  great  divinity,  O  Shamash,  great 
lord,  and  may  it  (thou)  answer  with  an  oracle! 

HYMN   TO   ISHTAR 

A  LIGHT  of  heaven,  which  like  fire  rises  resplendent  over 

the  earth,  art  thou. 
Goddess,  when  thou  appearest  on  the  earth. 
Glorious,  like  the  earth  art  thou.     . 

As  for  thee,  the  path  of  justice  bring  thee  gracious  blessing. 
When  thou  entereist  the  house  of  man — 
A  jackal,  who  goes  on  the  hunt  for  a  lamb,  art  thou, 
A  Hon,  who  roams  about  in  the  field,  art  thou. 
Welcome  (?)!  maid,  beauty  of  heaven! 
Maid  Ishtar,  beauty  of  heaven! 

Adorned  with  splendid  decorations,  beauty  of  heaven,. 
Sister  of  the  Sun-god,  beauty  of  heaven. 

To  give  omens  in  abundance  I  appear,  I  appear  in  perfec- 
tion. 

To  give  omens  in  abundance  to  my  father  Sin,  I  appear, 
I  appear  in  perfection. 

To,  give  omens  in  abundance  to  my  brother  Shamash,  I 
appear,  I  appear  in  perfection. 

Me  hath  my  father  Nannar  stationed;  to  give  omens  in 
abundance  I  appear. 

In  the  brilliant  heavens,  to  give  omens  in  abundance,  I 
appear,  I  appear  in  perfection. 

With  exultation  in  my  supremacy,  with  exultation  in  my 
supremacy. 

With  exultation  do  I,  a  goddess,  walk  supreme; 

Ishtar,  the  goddess  of  evening,  am  I;    . 

Ishtar,  the  goddess  of  morning,  am  I ; 

Ishtar,  who  opens  the  portals  of  heaven,  in  my  supremacy. 

The  heavens  I  destroy,  the  earth  I  devastate,  in  my  suprem- 
acy. 

Who  destroys  the  heavens,  who  devastates  the  earth,  in 
my  supremacy. 


43° 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


Who  rises  resplendent  on  the  firmament  of  heaven,  whose 
name  shines  among  the  habitations  of  men,  in  my 
supremacy. 

Queen  of  heaven,  invoked  above  and  below,  in  my  su- 
premacy. 

The  mountain  I  sweep  away  altogether,  in  my  supremacy. 

The  great  wall  of  the  mountain  am  I,  their  great  foundation 
am  I,  in  my  supremacy. 

May  thy  heart  be  at  rest,"may  thy  liver  be  pacified! 

May  the  great  lord  Anu  give  thy  heart  rest! 

May  the  lord,  the  great  mountain,  Bel,  pacify  thy  liver! 

O  goddess,  mistress  of  heaven,  may  thy  heart  be  at  rest! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  heaven,  may  thy  liver  be  pacified! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  E-an-na,  may  thy  heart  be  at  rest! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  Erech,  may  thy  liver  be  pacified! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  *  *  *,  may  thy  heart  be  at  rest! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  Harsag-kalama,  may  thy  liver  be  paci- 
fied! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  E-tur-kalama,  may  thy  heart  be  at 
rest! 

O  lady,  mistress  of  Babylon,  may  thy  liver  be  pacified! 

O  lady,  my  mistress,  goddess  Nana,  may  thy  heart  be  at 
rest!  '■  ' 

O  mistress  of  the  house,  mistress  of  the  gods;  may  thy 
liver  be  pacified! 

[Here  follows  the  colophon.] 

HYMN   TO  SIN,  THE  MOON-GOD 

O  Lord,  chief  of  the  gods,  who  in  heaven  and  on  earth 

alone  is  supreme! 
Father  Nannar,  lord  of  increase,  chief  of  the  gods! 
Father  Nannar,  lord  of  heaven,  great  one,  chief  of  the 

gods! 
Father  Nannar,  lord  of  the  moon,  chief  of  the  gods! 
Father  Nannar,  lord  of  Ur,  chief  of  the  gods! 
Father  Nannar,  lord  of  E-gis-sir-gal,  chief  of  the  gods! 


PRAYERS  AND  HYMNS  431 

Father  Nannar,  lord  of  the  moon-disk,  brilliant  one,  chief  of 

the  gods! 
Father    Nannar,    who    rules   with    pomp,    chief    of    the 

gods!  ~ 

Father  Nannar,  who  goes  about  in  princely  garb,  chief  of 

the  gods! 
O  strong  bull,  with  terrible  horns,  well-developed  muscles, 

with  a  flowing  beard  of  the  colour  of  lapislazuli,  full 

of  vigour  and  life! 
O  fruit,  which  grows  of  itself,  developed  in  appearance, 

beautiful  to  look  upon;  but  whose  luxuriance  does 

not  produce  fruit! 
O  merciful  one,  begetter  of  everything,  who  has  taken  up 

his  illustrious  abode  among  living  creatures! 
O  merciful  and  forgiving  father,  who  holds  in  his  hand  the 

life  of  the  whole  country! 
O  Lord,  thy  divinity  is  full  of  fear,  like  the  far-off  heavens 

and  the  broad  sea! 
O  ruler  (?)  of  the  land,  founder  of  shrines,  proclaimer  of 

their  name! 
O  Father,  begetter  of  gods  and  men,  builder  of  dwellings, 

establisher  of  offerings! 
Who  proclaims  sovereignty,  bestows  sceptre  and  who  de- 
termines destinies  for  far-off  days! 
O  mighty  leader,  whose  large  heart  no  god  understands! 
O  fiery  one  (?),  whose  knees  do  not  grow  weary,  who 

opens  up  the  road  (?)  for  the  gods  his  compan- 
ions! 
*  *  *  who  from  the  horizon  to  the  zenith  *  *  *  who 

opens  the  doors  of  heaven,  establishes  his  light  (?) 

*  *  * 

O  Father,  begetter  of  everything  *  *  * 

O  Lord,  who  determines  the  decisions  of  heaven  and  earth, 

whose  command  no  one  [can  set  aside] ! 
O  thou  who  boldest  fire  and  water,  who  rulest  over  all 

creatures!      What  god  can  attain  thy  position? 
In  heaven  who  is  exalted?    Thou  alone  art  exalted! 
On  earth  who  is  exalted?    Thou  alone  art  exalted! 


432        ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

As  for  thee,  thy  command  is  proclaimed  in  heaven  and  the 

Igigi  prostrate  themselves! 
As  for  thee,  thy  command  is  proclaimed  on  earth  and  the 

Anunnaki  kiss  the  ground! 
As  for  thee,  thy  command  blows  on  high  like  a  storm-wind; 

it  makes  food  and  drink  abundant! 
As  for  thee,  when  thy  command  is  established  on  earth, 

vegetation  springs  up! 
As  for  thee,  thy  command  maketh  fat  the  stable  and  herds, 

it, increases  all  creatures! 
As  for  thee,  thy  command  brings  about  truth  and  right- 
eousness, so  that  man  speaks  truth! 
As  for  thee,  thy  command  is  the  far-off  heavens  and  the 

hidden  earth,  which  no  one  penetrates! 
As  for  thee,  who  can  g^asp  thy  command?     Who  can 

rival  it? 
O  Lord,  in  heaven  is  [thy]  sovereignty;  on  earth  is  [thy] 

supremacy;  among  the  gods,  thy  companions,  thou 

hast  no  rival! 

[Several  lines  too  badly  broken  to  be  translated.] 


PENITENTIAL  PSALMS 


SUPPLIANT: 
I,  thy  servant,  full  of  sighs,  cry  unto  thee. 
Thou  acceptest  the  fervent  prayer  of  him  who  is  bur- 
dened with  sin. 
Thou  lookest  upon  a  man  and  that  man  lives. 
O  potentate  of  the  world,  mistress  ,of  mankind! 
Merciful  one,  to  whom  it  is  good  to  turn,  who  accepteth 
supplication! 

Priest: 

His  god  and  his  goddess  being  angry  with  him,  he  crieth 

unto  thee. 
Turn  thy  face  toward  him  and  take  his  ^and. 

Suppliant: 

Besides  thee  there  is  no  god  who  guideth  aright.    ,  .• 
Look  with  true  favour  upon  me  and  accept  my  supplica- 

,  tion. 
Declare,  "  how  long  "  (I  am  to  wait),  and  let  thy  liver  be 

pacified. 
When,  O  my  mistress,  will  thy  face  be  turned? 
Like  the  doves  do  I  moan,  in  sighs  do  I  abound. 

Priest: 

With  woe  and  grief,  full  of  sighs,  is  his  soul; 
Tears  doth  he  weep,  laments  doth  he.pour  forth.;.  : 

28  433 


434        ASSYRIAN   AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

II 

Thou  who  dost  execute  the  commands  of  Bel  *  *  * 

Pointed  dagger  *  *  * 

Thou  who  hast  created  the  gods,  who  dost  execute  the 

commands  of  Bel! 
Who  dost  make  the  green  herb  to  spring  up,  mistress  of 

mankind! 
Who  hast  created  everything,  who  dost  guide  aright  all 

creatures! 
Mother  Ishtar,  whose  power  no  god  can  approach! 
Most  exalted  mistress,  whose  command  is  all-powerful! 
A  prayer  will  I  utter;  may  she  do  unto  me  what  seems 

good  unto  her! 
O  my  mistress,  from  the  day  when  I  was  young,  much  to 

misfortune  have  I  been  yoked. 
Food  have  I  not  eaten,  weeping  was  my  sustenance. 
Water  have  I  not  drunk,  tears  were  my  drink. 
My  heart  has  not   rejoiced,  my  spirits  have  not  been 

cheerful. 

*  *  *  like  a  man  I  have  not  walked. 

*  *  *  bitterly  I  moan. 

My  transgressions  are  many,  full  of  bitterness  is  my  spirit. 

O  my  mistress,  make  me  to  know  my  deed,  establish  for 
me  a  place  of  rest! 

Absolve  my  sins,  lift  up  my  face! 

O  my  god,  lord  of  prayer,  may  my  prayer  address  thee! 

O  my  goddess,  mistress  of  supplication,  may  my  supplica- 
tion address  thee! 

O  god  of  the  storm,  lord  of  Harsaga,  may  my  prayer  ad- 
dress thee! 

O  Gubarra,  mistress  of  the  field,  may  my  supplication 
address  thee! 

O  lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  lord  of  Eridu,  may  my  prayer 
address  thee! 

O  Damkina,  mother  of  the  house  supreme,  may  my  sup- 
plication address  thee! 

O  Marduk,  lord  of  Babylon,  may  my  prayer  address  thee! 


PENITENTIAL  PSALMS  435 

His  consort,  the  exalted  offspring  (?)  of  heaven  and  earth, 
may  my  supplication  address  thee! 

O  exalted  servant,  the  god,  who  announces  the  good  name, 
may  my  prayer  address  thee! 

O  bride,  the  first-born  of  the  god  *  *  *  ,  may  my  suppli- 
cation address  thee! 

O  mistress,  who  dost  curb  (?)  unfriendly  speech,  may  my 
prayer  address  thee! 

Exalted,  great,  my  mistress,  goddess  Nana,  may  my  suppli- 
cation address  thee! 

"  Turn  thine  eye  with  favour  toward  me,"  may  it  say  to 
thee! 

"  Turn  thy  face  with  favour  toward  me,"  may  it  say  to 
thee! 

"  May  thy  heart  be  at  rest,"  may  it  say  to  thee! 

"  May  thy  liver  be  pacified,"  may  it  say  to  thee! 

May  thy  heart,  as  the  heart  of  a  mother  who  has  borne 
children,  be  glad! 

As  a  mother  who  has  borne  children,  as  a  father  who  has 
begotten  (them),  may  it  be  glad! 

Ill 

Because  of  his  face,  which  he  doth  not  raise  on  account  of 
tears,  doth  he  raise  lamentation  to  thee. 

Because  of  his  feet,  on  which  fetters  are  laid,  doth  he  raise 
lamentation  to  thee. 

Because  of  his  hands,  which  are  exhausted  through  weak- 
ness, doth  he  raise  lamentation  to  thee. 

Because  of  his  breast,  which  like  a  flute  pipes  forth  in  cries, 
doth  he  raise  lamentation  to  thee. 

Suppliant: 

O  mistress,  in  the  anguish  of  my  heart  have  I  raised  cries 

of  anguish  to  thee;  declare  forgiveness. 
O  mistress,  to  thy  servant  declare  respite!    May  thy  heart 

be  at  rest! 
Unto  thy  servant  who  hath  experienced  sorrow,  grant 

mercy! 


436       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

Turn  thy  face,  receive  his  supplication! 

To  thy  servant  with  whom  thou  hast  been  angry,  turn  in 

favour! 
O  my  mistress,  my  hands  are  bound,  yet  I  embrace  (?) 

thee. 
To  the  warlike  hero,  Shamash,  thy  beloved  husband,  grant 

a  pledge,  that  I  may  walk  before  thee  during  a  life 

of  many  days! 
My  god  hath  made  supplication  unto  thee,  may  thy  heart 

be  at  rest! 
My  goddess  hath  uttered  a  prayer  unto  thee,  may  thy  liver 

be  pacified ! 
O  brave  hero,  god  Anu,  thy  beloved  husband,  may  my 

prayer  address  thee! 
O  *  *  *,  god  of  justice,  may  my  supplication  address 

thee! 
O  *  *  *,  thy  exalted  servant,  may  my  prayer  address 

thee! 
O  *  *  *,  potentate  of  Ebabbara,  may  my  supplication  ad- 
dress thee! 
"  Turn  thine  eye  with  favour  toward  me,"  may  it  say  to 

thee! 
"Turn  thy  face  with  favour  toward  me,"  may  it  say  to 

thee! 
"  May  thy  heart  be  at  rest,"  may  it  say  to  thee! 
"  May  thy  liver  be  pacified,"  may  it  say  to  thee! 
May  thy  heart,  as  the  heart  of  a  mother  who  has  borne 

children,  be  glad! 
As  a  mother  who  has  borne  children,  as  a  father  who  has 

begotten  (them),  may  it  be  glad! 

Penitential  Psalm  to  the  goddess  Anunit. 


IV 

May  the  wrath  of  the  heart  of  my  god  be  pacified! 
May  the  god  who  is  unknown  to  me  be  pacified! 
May  the  goddess  who  is  unknown  to  me  be  pacified! 


PENITENTIAL  PSALMS 


437 


May  the  known  and  unknown  god  be  pacified! 

May  the  known  and  unknown  goddess  be  pacified! 

May  the  heart  of  my  god  be  pacified! 

May  the  heart  of  my  goddess  be  pacified! 

May  the  god  or  goddess  known  or  unknown  be  pacified! 

May  the  god  who  is  angry  with  me  be  pacified! 

May  the  goddess  who  is  angry  with  me  be  pacified! 

The  sin  which  I  have  committed  I  know  not. 

The  misdeed  which  I  have  committed  I  know  not. 

A  gracious  name  may  my  god  announce! 

A  gracious  name  may  my  goddess  announce! 

A  gracious  name  may  my  known  and  unknown  god  an- 
nounce ! 

A  gracious  name  may  my  known  and  unknown  goddess 
announce! 

Pure  food  have  I  not  eaten, 

Clear  water  have  I  not  drunk. 

An  offence  against  my  god  have  I  unwittingly  committed. 

A  transgression  against  my  goddess  have  I  unwittingly 
done. 

O  lord,  my  sins  are  many,  great  are  my  iniquities! 

My  god,  my  sins  are  many,  great  are  my  iniquities! 

My  goddess,  my  sins  are  many,  great  are  my  iniquities! 

Known  or  unknown  god,  my  sins  are  many,  great  are  my 
iniquities ! 

Known  or  unknown  goddess,  my  sins  are  many,  great  are 
my  iniquities! 

The  sin,  which  I  have  committed,  I  know  not. 

The  iniquity,  which  I  have  done,  I  know  not. 

The  offence,  which  I  have  committed,  I  know  not. 

The  transgression  I  have  done,  I  know  not. 

The  lord,  in  the  anger  of  his  heart,  hath  looked  upon  me. 

The  god,  in  the  wrath  of  his  heart,  hath  visited  me. 

The  goddess  hath  become  angry  with  me,  and  hath  griev- 
ously stricken  me. 

T^e  known  or  unknown  god  hath  straitened  me. 

The  known  or  unknown  goddess  hath  brought  affliction 
upon  me. 


438       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

I  sought  for  help,  but  no  one  taketh  my  hand. 

I  wept,  but  no  one  came  to  my  side. 

I  utter  cries,  but  no  one  hearkens  to  me. 

I  am  afflicted,  I  am  overcome,  I  do  not  look  up. 

Unto  my  merciful  god  I  turn,  I  make  supplication. 

I  kiss  the  feet  of  my  goddess  and  *  *  * 

To  known  and  unknown  god,  I  make  supplication. 

To  known  and  unknown  goddess,  I  make  supplication. 

O  lord,  look  with  favour  upon  me,  receive  my  supplication! 

O  goddess,  look  with  favour  upon  me,  receive  my  suppli- 
cation! 

Known  and  unknown  god  *  *  * 

Known  and  unknown  goddess  *  *  * 

How  long,  my  god  *  *  * 

How  long,  my  goddess,  until  thy  face  be  turned  toward 
me? 

How  long,  known  and  unknown  god,  until  the  anger  of 
thy  heart  be  pacified? 

How  long,  known  and  unknown  goddess,  until  thy  un- 
friendly heart  be  pacified? 

Mankind  is  perverted  .and  has  no  judgment. 

Of  all  men  who  are  alive,  who  knows  anything? 

They  do  not  know  whether  they  do  good  or  evil. 

O  lord,  do  not  cast  aside  thy  servant! 

He  is  cast  into  the  mire;  take  his  hand. 

The  sin  which  I  have  sinned,  turn  to  mercy! 

The  iniquity  which  I  have  committed,  let  the  wind  carry 
away! 

My  many  transgressions  tear  off  like  a  garment! 

My  god,  my  sins  are  seven  times  seven;  forgive  my 
sins! 

My  goddess,  my  sins  are  seven  times  seven;  forgive  my 
sins! 

Known  and  unknown  god,  my  sins  are  seven  times  seven; 
forgive  my  sins! 

Known  and  unknown  goddess,  my  sins  are  seven  times 
seven;  forgive  my  sins! 

Forgive  my  sins  and  I  will  humble  myself  before  thee. 


PENITENTIAL  PSALMS  439 

May  thy  heart,  as  the  heart  of  a  mother  who  hath  borne 

children,  be  glad! 
As  a  mother  who  hath  borne  children,  as  a  father  who  hath 

begotten  (them),  may  it  be  glad! 


COLOPHON 

Penitential  Psalm  of  sixty-five  lines.    Tablet  for  any  god. 
His  word  announces  peace  to  me. 
Like  the  original,  copied  and  revised. 
Palace  of  Ashurbanipal,  king  of  the  world,  King  of  As- 
syria. 

V 

How  long,  O  my  mistress,  will  the  powerful  enemy  con- 
sume thy  land? 

In  thy  chief  city,  Erech,  thirst  prevails. 

In  E-ul-bar,  the  house  of  thy  oracle,  blood  is  poured  out 
like  water. 

In  all  thy  lands  hath  he  kindled  fires  and  over  them  hath 
he  poured  (fire)  like  *  *  * 

O  my  mistress,  much  to  misfortune  have  I  been  yoked. 

0  my  mistress,  thou  hast  encompassed  me,  and  into  pain 

hast  thou  brought  me. 
The  mighty  enemy  hath  trodden  me  under  foot  like  a  reed. 

1  can  not  think,  I  can  not  plan. 

Like  a  (wind-swept)  field  I  moan  night  and  day.  ' 

I,  thy  servant,  supplicate  thee. 

May  thy  heart  be  at  rest,  may  thy  liver  be  pacified! 

[Broken  off.] 

VI       i 

O  lord,  whose  heart  in  heaven  doth  not  find  rest! 
O  lord,  whose  heart  on  earth  is  not  appeased! 
In  heaven  and  on  earth  it  doth  not  find  rest! 
He  who  hath  brought  me  low  and  cut  me  off! 
He  who  hath  placed  fetters  (?)  on  niy  hands! 
He  who  hath  placed  chains  on  my  body! 


440       ASSYRIAN  AUD  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

He  who  hath  filled  my  eyes  with  tears! 
He  who  hath  filled  my  heart  with  dejection  and  lamenta- 
tion ! 
May  his  pure  heart  be  at  rest,  may  my  prayer  address  him! 
May  his  heart  rest  in  peace! 
May  the  heart  of  his  lordship  rest  in  peace! 
"  O  heart,  turn  thyself,  turn  thyself,"  let  be  said  to  him! 
"  O  heart,  rest,  rest,"  let  be  said  to  him! 

Priest: 

He  desires  too  much  for  his  heart,  who  would  pass  judg- 
ment on  himself. 

To  pacify  his  heart,  may  the  spirits  of  earth  [support  him] 
in  prayer! 

May  the  spirits  of  earth,  who  are  the  creation  of  Anu,  sup- 
port him  in  prayer! 

His  god  hath  borne  aloft  his  supplication,  may  he  address 
his  prayer  to  thee! 

When  he  breaks  into  a  lamentation  to  set  at  ease,  may  thy 
heart  be  at  rest! 

Suppliant: 

O  lord,  great  ruler,  Ninib,  may  my  prayer  address  thee! 

O  suppliant  mistress  of  Nippur,  may  my  supplication  ad- 
dress thee! 

O  lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  lord  of  Eridu,  may  my  prayer 
address  thee!  ^  , 

O  Damkina,  mother  of  the  house  sujpreme,  may  my  suppli- 
cation address  thee! 

O  Marduk,  lord  of  Babylon,  may  my  prayer  address  thee! 

His  consort,  the  exalted  offspring  (?)  of  heaven  and  earth, 
may  my  supplication  address  thee! 

O  exaltfed  servant,  the  god,  who  announceth  the  good 
name,  may  my  prayer  address  thee! 

O  bride,  the  first-born  of  the  god  *  *  *,  may  my  suppli- 
cation address  thee! 

O  god  of  the  storm,  lord  of  Harsaga,  may  my  prayer  ad- 
dress thee! 


PENITENTIAL  PSALMS 


441 


O  Gubarra,  mistress  of  the  field,  may  my  supplication  ad- 
dress thee! 

"  Turn  thine  eye  with  favour  toward  me,"  may  it  say  to 
thee! 

"  Turn  thy  face  with  favour  toward  me,"  may  it  say 
to  thee! 

"  May  thy  heart  be  at  rest,"  may  it  say  to  thee ! 

"  May  thy  liver  be  pacified,"  may  it  say  to  thee! 

May  thy  heart,  as  the  heart  of  a  mother  who  hath  borne 
children,  be  glad! 

As  a  mother  who  hath  borne  children,  as  a  father  who 
hath  begotten  (them),  may  it  be  glad! 

COLOPHON 

Penitential  Psalm  of  forty-five  lines.     Tablet  for  the  god 

-  Bel. 
Like  the  original,  copied  and  revised. 

VII 
Priest: 

In  sighing  he  sits. 

With  cries  of  affliction,  in  anguish  of  heart. 

With  bitter  weeping,  with  bitter  sighing. 

Like   the   doves   doth   he   moan,   in   distress   night   and 

day. 
Unto  his  merciful  god  like  a  wild  cow  doth  he  cry. 
Sighs  of  affliction  doth  he  raise. 
Before  his  god  he  prostrates  himself  in  supplication. 
He  weeps  that  he  may  approach,  that  nothing  may  hold 

(him)  back. 

Suppliant: 

My  deed  will  I  declare,  my  deed  which  can  not  be  declared. 

My  words  will  I  repeat,  my  words  which  can  not  be  re- 
peated. 

My  god !  my  deed  will  I  declare,  my  deed  which  can  not  be 
declared. 


442       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

VIII 

Loose  his  chains,  cast  off  his  fetters, 
Undo  his  band,  to  his  captivity  *  *  * 

*  *  *  his  understanding  (?)*** 

*  *  *  have  filled  him  (?)  with  lamentation  and  *  *  * 
Sickness,  a  stroke,  misery,  afRiction, 

Have  laid  hold  of  him,  and  his  sighing  has  become  weaker 

and  weaker. 
Imprisonment  (?),  misery,  fear,  and  oppression  (?) 
Have  brought  him  low  and  stilled  his  lamentation. 
He  hath  sinned  and  full  of  griei  he  weeps  before  thee. 
His  spirits  are  depressed,  he  stands  trembling  before  thee. 
He  is  unnerved;  he  rains  down  tears  like  a  heavy  storm. 
He  is  overpowered  and  *  *  * 
Like  a  shrieking  bird  he  uttereth  troublous  cries. 
With  sighs  he  declareth  his  humility. 
What  has  my  lord's  servant  said  and  devised? 
Let  his  mouth  bring  that  which  I  know  not! 

Suppliant: 

My  sins  are  many,  the  number  which  I  have  sinned. 
May  this  curse  depart,  may  it  go  out  into  the  desert! 
My  sins  are  many,  the  number  which  I  have  sinned. 
May  this  curse  depart,  may  it  go  out  into  the  desert! 

Priest: 

*  *  *  scorn;  the  covering  (?)  of  his  mouth  and  *  *  * 
Hath  taken  hold  of  him;  the  covering  (?)  of  his  face  hath 

led  him  astray;  he  lieth  prostrate. 
Before  thy  scorn,  his  hands  are  bound. 
"  Will  he  loose  thee?  "    He  is  not  able  to  know. 
He  speaketh  to  thee  with  sighing. 
May  the  command  of  Ea  pacify  thy  heart! 
May  his  earnest  supplication  find  favour  with  thee  above! 
"  Sighing  or  mercy;  how  long  still,"  shall  he  say  to  thee! 
Behold  his  painful  suffering! 
May  thy  heart  be  at  rest,  and  grant  him  mercy! 
Take  his  hand,  forgive  his  sin! 


PENITENTIAL  PSALMS 


443 


Remove  the  erysipelas  and  fever  which  are  on  him! 
By  thy  command,  grant  respite  to  thy  downcast  servant! 
Send  forth  thy  scorn  into  the  river  along  with  his  jaundice! 
Undo  his  bands,  loose  his  fetters! 
Light  up  thy  countenance,  commend  him  to  his  god,  his 

creator! 
Grant  life  to  thy  servant,  that  he  may  glorify  thy  power! 
May  all  the  habitations  bow  before  thy  greatness! 
Receive  his  present,  accept  his  redemption-money! 
In  the  land  of  peace,  may  he  walk  before  thee! 
With  rich  abundance  may  he  fill  thy  shrine! 
In  thy  house  (?)  may  his  abundant  (offering)  be  placed! 
May  he  pour  out  fat  like  water  over  thy  (partition)- 

walls  (?)! 
May  he  make  thy  thresholds  to  drip  with  fat  in  abundance! 
May  he  erect  for  thee  a    *  *  *  of  cedar-wood! 
The  sweetest  incense,  the  full  product  (?)  of  grain  (?). 
Look  with  favour,  O  lord,  upon  thy  servant,  full  of  sighs! 
Let  thy  wind  blow;  grant  him  freedom  (?)  at  once! 
May  thy  proud  scorn  be  pacified! 
Cast  off  his  fetters,  that  he  may  breathe  freely! 
Undo  his  bands,  loose  his  fetters! 

*  *  *  declare  his  fate! 

*  *  *  spare,  spare  his  life! 

*  *  *  declare  his  fate! 

*  *  *  spare,  spare  his  life! 

What  hath  the  servant,  the  creation  of  thy  hand,  devised? 
What  hath  he  planned,  what  is  his  fault  (?)? 

*  *  *  the  servant  fears  his  lord. 

*  *  *  What  can  he  add  thereto? 

[Too  badly  broken  to  be  translated.] 

IX 

O  my  god,  who  art  angry  with  me,  accept  my  prayer! 
O  my  goddess,  who  art  wroth  with  me,  receive  my  suppli- 
cation! 
Receive  my  supplication,  let  thy  liver  be  at  rest! 


444 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 


O  my  lord,  gracious  and  merciful,  [look  upon  me] ! 
He  who  guideth  the  span  of  life,  who  stayeth  the  hand 
of  death,  my  god,  accept  my  prayer! 

0  my  goddess,  look  with  favour  upon  me  and  receive  my 

supplication! 

May  my  sins  be  forgiven,  may  my  transgressions  be  for- 
gotten! 

May  the  ban  be  loosened,  may  the  chains  be  cast  off! 

May  the  seven  winds  carry  away  my  sighs! 

May  I  strip  off  my  wickedness,  may  the  birds  carry  it  to 
the  heavens! 

May  the  fish  carry  off  my  misery,  the  river  bear  it  away! 

May  the  beasts  of  the  field  take  it  from  me,  may  the  run- 
ning waters  of  the  river  wash  me  clean! 

Make  me  bright  like  gold! 

Like  a  ring  (?)  of  diamonds  (?)  may  I  be  precious  in  thy 
sight! 

Cleanse  me  from  wickedness,  save  my  soul!  I  will  watch 
(?)  thy  court  and  pledge  myself  to  thee. 

Remove  me  from  my  wickedness,  and  may  I  receive  pro- 
tection from  thee! 

Grant  to  me  that  I  may  see  a  favoiirable  dream! 

May  the  dream  which  I  see  be  favourable,  may  the  dream 
which  I  see  come  true! 

The  dream  which  I  see,  turn  to  my  favour! 

May  the  god  *  *  *,  the  god  of  dreams,  stand  at  my  head! 

Make  me  to  enter  into  Esagila,  the  temple  of  the  gods,  the 
house  of  life! 

Commend  me  to  the  gracious  favour  of  the  merciful  Mar- 
duk!  ■• 

1  will  bow  myself  before  thy  greatness,  I  will  honour  thy 

divinity. 
May  the  inhabitants  of  my  city  glorify  thy  power! 


SOME  BABYLONIAN  LAWS 


A.    ANCIENT  BABYLONIAN   LAWS 

BE  it  enacted  forever  and  for  all  future  days:  If  a  son 
say  to  his  father,  "  Thou  art  not  my  father,"  he  can 
cut  off  (his  locks),  make  him  a  slave  and  sell  him  for 
money. — If  a  son  say  to  his  mother,  "  Thou  art  not  my 
mother,"  she  can  cut  off  his  locks,  turn  him  out  of  town,  or 
(at  least)  drive  him  away  from  home  (i.  e.,  she  can  have  him 
deprived  of  citizenship  and  of  inheritance,  but  his  liberty  he 
loses  not). — If  a  father  say  to  his  son,  "  Thou  art  not  my 
son,"  the  latter  has  to  leave  house  and  field  (i.  e.,  he  loses 
everything). — If  a  mother  say  tp  her  son,  "  Thou  art  not 
my  son,"  he  shall  leave  house  and  furniture. — If  a  wife  be 
imfaithful  to  her  husband  and  then  says,  "Thou  art  not 
my  husband,"  let  her  be  thrown  into  the  river. — If  a  hus- 
band say  to  his  wife,  "  Thou  art  not  my  wife,"  he  shall 
as  a  fine  pay  one  Jbalf  maneh  of  silver. — If  some  one 
hires  a  servant  and  the  latter  dies  or  is  rendered  useless 
otherwise  (e.  g.,  by  flight,  rebellion;  or  sickness)  he 
shall  give  (to  the  owner)  as  daily  wages  ten  KA  of  corn 
a  day. 

If  an  overseer  or  a  fisherman  ordered  to  the  service 
of  the  king  does  not  come,  but  sends  a  hireling  in  his 
stead,  that  same  overseer  or  fisherman  shall  be  put  to 

•  Laws  governing  private  as  well  as  public  and  political  life  were 
written  up  in  Babylonia  as  early  as  2250  B.  c.  Unfortunately,  most  of 
these  early  documents  have  been  preserved  in  very  fragmentary  condi- 
tion, so  that  only  a  few  phases  of  early  Babylonian  law  and  jurispru- 
dence are  now  known  to  us. 

445 


446       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

death,  and  his  house  shall  go  into  the  possession  of  the 
hireling. 

If  a  man  lets  out  his  field  to  a  farmer  and  he  has  re- 
ceived the  rent  for  his  field,  and  afterward  a  flood  pours 
down  upon  that  field,  or  some  animal  destroys  the  har- 
vest of  the  farmer;  in  case  now  the  rent  of  this  field  is  not 
yet  paid,  or  *  *  *  ^ 

When  a  merchant  gives  to  his  clerk  grain,  wool,  oil,  or 
some  other  merchandise  for  sale,  the  clerk  shall  give  a 
strict  account  and  turn  in  the  money  to  the  merchant;  and 
the  merchant  shall  give  to  the  clerk  a  receipt  for  the  money 
paid  over  to  him. 

When  a  man  has  bought  a  male  or  female  slave,  and;  the 
sale  is  fought  by  a  third  party  (the  real  owner)  and  is  in 
consequence  thereof  declared  void,  the  seller  of  the  slave 
has  to  pay  for  all  damages.* 

When  in  an  inclosed  yard  a  disturbance  occurs,  or, 
again,  when  a  lion  kills,  his  keeper  shall  pay  all  damages, 
and  the  owner  of  the  yard  shall  receive  the  killed  ani- 
mals. 

When  a  peasant  says  to  the  date-vender,  "  All  the  dates 
in  this  garden  thou  mayest  take  for  thy  money,"  that  ven- 
der shall  not  do  so;  but  the  dates  that  grow  in  the  gar- 
den shall  be  and  remain  the  property  of  the  owner,  and 
with  these  dates  he  shall  pay  the  vender  for  the  latter's 
money  and  the  interests  accrued,  as  the  written  agreement 
calls  for;  but  what  remains  of  dates  after  that  shall  be  and 
remain  the  property  of  the  owner. 

When  a  shepherd  of  small  cattle,  after  having  driven  the 
herd  from  pasture,  and  when  the  whole  troop  has  passed 
within  the  city  gates,  drives  his  cattle  to  another  man's 
field  (within  the  city  walls),  and  pastures  it  there,  that  shep- 
herd shall  take  care  of  the  field,  which  he  has  given  to  his 

'  The  law  here  no  doubt  said  that,  in  case  of  damage  by  weather  or 
animals,  a  renter  of  a  field  will  have  certain  reduction  granted.  If  he 
paid  in  advance,  part  of  the  money  will  be  refunded  to  him  ;  if  he  pays 
at  the  end  of  the  lease,  he  need  not  pay  the  full  amount. 

*  Contract  tablets  show  that  in  addition  to  this  fine  the  falce-owner  was 
condemned  to  do  service  unto  the  king  in  socage. 


SOME   BABYLONIAN  LAWS  447 

flock  as  pasture,  and  shall  give  to  the  owner  of  the  field  for 
every  day  the  amount  of  sixty  KA. 


B.    NEO-BABYLONIAN   LAWS 

If  a  man  sell  a  slave-girl  for  money,  and  another  party 
proves  just  claims  to  her,  and  takes  her  away  (from  her 
present  owner),  the  seller  shall  return  the  money  to  the 
buyer,  to  exactly  the  same  amount  that  his  receipt  calls  for; 
if  (in  the  meanwhile)  she  has  borne  children,  he  shall — in 
addition — pay  for  each  child  one  half  shekel. 

If  a  man,  after  having  promised,  either  verbally  or  in 
writing,  a  certain  dowry  to  his  daughter,  loses  part  of  his 
property,  he  can  give  his  daughter  a  dowry  in  accordance 
with  the  property  as  it  is  now,  and  neither  father-in-law 
nor  son-in-law  shall  go  to  law  on  that  account. 

If  a  man  has  given  his  daughter  a  dowry,  and  the 
daughter  dies  without  an  issue,  the  dowry  reverts  to  the 
house  of  her  father. 

If  a  woman,  whose  dowry  her  husband  has  taken  charge 
of,  remains  childless  and  loses  her  husband,  her  dowry  shall 
be  returned  to  her  in  full  out  of  the  late  husband's  estate. 
If  her  husband  during  his  lifetime  has  presented  her  part  of 
his  property,  she  shall  retain  this  also  and  still  receive  her 
own  dowry  in  full.  But  if  she  had  no  dowry,  the  judge 
(of  the  probate  court)  shall  examine  into  the  condition  of 
her  husband's  estate  and  then  give  her  a  proper  share  in 
accordance  with  her  late  husband's  property. 


SOME  PROVERBS  AND  SAYINGS 


WHO  grows  pregnant  without  having  conceived? 
Who  grows  fat  without  having  eaten? 
(He  that  says),  "  Oh,  that  I  might  take  re- 
venge and  even  add  to  it  more! "  is  like  unto  a  man  that 
draws  water  from  a  well  in  which  there  is  no  water,  and 
rubs  his  skin  without  anointing  it. 

When  their  god  turned  away,  misery  invaded  their 
dwelling-places.  The  wicked  established  himself,  but  the 
righteous  waxed  not  old;  the  religious  and  devout  whose 
devotion  his  lord  regarded  not,  and  every  noble  whom 
his  lord  forsook,'  their  want  set  in  and  their  suffering  was 
heightened. 

The  enemy  will  not  be  scattered  in  front  of  the  gate  of 
them  whose  weapons  are  not  strong. 

My  knees  hasten  on,  not. do  rest  my  feet;  but  bereft  of 
common  sense,  misfortune  follows  at  my  heels. 

A  heifer  I  am,  yoked  to  a  mule;  on  the  wagon,  to 
which  we  are  harnessed,  I  pull  the  yoke. 

With  disease  that  can  not  be  cured  and  hunger  that  can 
not  be  stilled,  a  coffer  of  silver  and  a  trunk  full  of  gold 
are  not  able  to  restore  health  or  to  still  hunger. 

My  bracer  surrounds  me  like  as  a  divine  garment;  my 
powerful  rock  is  founded  in  the  ocean. 

In  a  house  made  of  bitumen  and  brick  I  dwell;  boats 
are  gliding  past  above  me. 

448 


SOME   PROVERBS  AND  SAYINGS 


449 


If  I  consume  all  my  garlic  when  the  wind  blows,  my 
heart  will  be  troubled  when  the  rainy  season  sets  in — i.  e., 
if  one  eats  all  his  vegetables  when  the  wind  blows,  in  the 
hope  of  the  coming  rain,  he  is  apt  to  suffer  want  before 
fresh  vegetables  have  grown,  as  the  result  of  the  rainy 
season. 

Just  as  an  oven  becomes  old,  so  is  (thine  enemy)  un- 
able to  do  harm  unto  thee. 

Thou  camest  to  take  thine  enemy's  property,  the  enemy 
came  and  took  thy  property. 

A  drunken  man  has  the  strength  of  a  worm. 

The  life  of  yesterday,  it  is  every  day  the  same — i.  e., 
nothing  new  under  the  sun. 

Thou  art  so  offensive  that  when  thou  goest  into  the 
river  the  water  becomes  foul,  and  when  thou  goest  into  the 
garden  the  fruit  grows  bitter. 

When  the  seed  corn  is  not  good,  germs  can  not  sprout, 
and  grain  will  not  grow. 

I  honour  him,  because  he  is  head  of  the  family;  I  polish 
it,  because  it  is  a  stone. — A  riddle  on  the  Assyrian  word 
shebu,  which,  according  to  Dr.  Jager,  in  "  Contributions 
to  Assyriology,"  ii,  302,  303,  means:  (i)  elder,  old  man, 
senex;  and  (2)  brick — ^thus:  if  shebu  means  head  of  the 
family,  I  pay  respect  and  honour  him;  if  it  means  brick,  I 
polish  it. 

How  do  we  know  whether  corn  is  good  and  full,  and 
how  do  we  know  whether  it  is  meagre  and  light?  Answer: 
When  the  ears  sink  to  the  ground  we  know  it  is  good,  and 
when  it  stands  upright  we  know  it  is  meagre. 

Because  I  must  die  I  will  eat;  because  I  must  live  I 
will  work. 
29 


450       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

Strife  you  find  among  the  servants  (?),  gossip  among 
barbers. 

A  servant  in  a  strange  town  may  be  taken  for  a  high 
officer. 

Enter  into  friendship  the  very  first  day,  and  thou  dost 
thereby  deliver  thyself  into  everlasting  servitude. 

With  every  one  he  is  friendly  and  enters  into  compan- 
ionship. 

The  ox  of  an  enemy  shall  eat  weeds,  one's  own  ox  shall 
lie  in  fat  pasture. 

The  liberality  of  the  king  insures  the  liberality  of  the 
magnate;  the  liberality  of  the  king  insures  the  benevolence 
of  the  governor — i.  e.,  like  master  like  man. 


THE    REPORTS     OF     THE     MAGI- 
CIANS AND  ASTROLOGERS  OF 
NINEVEH  AND  BABYLON 


I.    WHEN    THE   MOON   APPEARS   ON   THE   FIRST   DAY 
OF  THE  MONTH 

WHEN  the  Moon  appears  on  the  first  day,  there 
will  be  silence,  the  land  will  be  satisfied.    When 
the  day  is  long  according  to  its  calculation,  there 
will  be  a  long  reign.    From  Bullutu. 

When  the  Moon  appears  on  the  first  day,  there  will  be 
silence,  the  land  will  be  satisfied.  This  is  for  Nisan  and 
Tishri  (?).  When  the  Moon  is  regularly  full,  the  crops  of 
the  land  will  prosper,  the  king  will  go  to  pre-eminence. 

May  Ashur,  Shamash,  Nabu,  and  Marduk,  day  after 
day,  month  after  month,  year  after  year,  grant  happiness, 
health,  joy,  and  exultation,  a  secure  throne  forever,  for 
long  days  and  many  years  to  the  king,  my  lord!  From 
Nabu-iqbi. 

Two  or  three  times  during  these  days  we  have  looked 
for  Mars,  but  could  not  see  it.  If  the  king,  my  lord,  should 
say,  "  Is  it  an  omen  that  it  is  invisible?  "  it  is  not.  From 
Ishtar-shum-eresh. 

II.    OMENS   FROM  THE   HORNS  OF  THE  MOON 

When  the  Moon's  horns  face  equally,  there  will  be  a 
secure  dwelling  for  the  land.     When  at  the  Moon's  ap- 

45 1 


452        ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

pearance  (its  horns)  are  pointed,  the  king  wherever  his 
face  is  set  will  rule  the  land,  (or)  wherever  he  presses  on 
will  overcome.  From  Irasshi-ilu,  the  king's  servant,  the 
greater. 

When  at  the  Moon's  appearance  its  right  horn  is  long 
and  its  left  horn  is;short,,  the  king's  hand  will  conquer; a 
land  other  than  this.  When  the  Moon  at  its  appearance  is 
very  large,  an  ^eclipse  will  take' place.  When  the  Moori  at 
its  appearance  is  very  bright,  the  crops  of  the  land  will 
prosper.  When  the  day  is  long  according  to  its  calcula- 
tion, there  will  be  a  long  reign.  The  thirtieth  day  com- 
pleted the  month.  In  EIul  an  eclipse  of  Elam.  From 
Nergal-etir. 

When  the  Moon  appears  on  the  first  of  Kislev,  the  King 
of  Akkad,  wherever  he  goes,  will  ravage  the  land;  (or)  the 
King  of  Akkad,  wherever  his  face  is  set,  will  rule  the  land. 
(On  the  fourteenth  day  the  Moon  was  seen  with  the  Sun.) 
There  will  be  an  overthrowing  of  fohresses  and  downfall  of 
garrisons;  there  will  be  obedience  and  good-will  in  the 
l^nd.  As  for  the  rest,  the  king  (will  see?)  their  good  luck. 
May  the  king  soon  hear  a  happy  report  and  greeting! 
From  Asharidu. 

Concerning  Mercury,  of  which  the  king,  my  lord,  sent 
me,  yesterday  Ishtar-shum-eresh  in  the  palace  proclaimed 
its  going  forth  to  Nabu-ahi-eriba.  The  omens  in  the  fes- 
tival day  came,  they  have  all  been  observed  and  seen,  they 
have  passed  off.    From  Balasi. 

III.   WHEN  THE  MOON  APPEARS  ON  THE 
TWENTY-EIGHTH  DAY 

When  the  Moon  at  its  appearance  appears  on  the 
twenty-eighth  day  as  the  first  day,  it  is  evil  for  Aharru. 
When  the  Moori  appears  on  the  twenty-eighth  day,  it  is 
lucky  for  Akkad,  unlucky  for  Aharru.  From  the  Chief 
Physician. 


REPORTS  OF  THE  MAGICIANS  AND  ASTROLOGERS  453 

IV.    WHEN   THE   MOON   APPEARS  ON   THE 
THIRTIETH   DAY 

When  the  Moon  appears  on  the  thirtieth  of  Nisan,  Su- 
bartu  Ahlamu  will  devour:  a  foreign  tongue  will  gain  the 
ascendency  in  Aharru.  (We  are  Subartu.)  When  the 
Moon  appears  on  the  thirtieth  day,  there  will  be  cold  in  the 
land. 

The  Moon  appeared  without  the  Sun  on  the  fourteenth 
of  Tebet;  the  Moon  completes  the  day  in  Shebat.  On  the 
fourteenth  it  appears  without  the  Sun;  the  Moon  completes 
the  day  in  Adar.  On  the  fourteenth  it  appears  without  the 
Sun;  the  Moon  will  complete  the  day  in  Nisan.  From 
Nabu-ahi-eriba. 

When  the  Moon  appears  on  the  thirtieth  of  Sivan,  the 
abundance  of  Aharru  Ahlamu  will  devour.  When  the 
Moon  appears  on  the  thirtieth  day,  there  will  be  cold,  (or) 
there  will  be  the  clamour  of  the  enemy  in  the  land.  When 
the  Moon  at  its  appearance  appears  low,  the  enemy  will 
seize  on  the  land.  When  the  Moon  at  its  appearance  appears 
low,  the  submission  of  a  far  country  will  come  to  the  king 
(or)  a  messenger  will  come.  From  Irasshi-ilu,  the  king's 
servant. 

When  the  Moon  appears  on  the  thirtieth  of  Ab,  there 
will  be  a  devastation  of  Akkad.  Let  not  the  all-powerful 
king  leave  me;  it  is  I  who  daily  beg  of  the  king  for  my 
hunger;  and  now  to  brick-work  he  has  set  me,  saying, 
"  Make  bricks."  Let  not  the  king,  my  lord,  leave  me  and 
I  shall  not  die.    From  Tabia. 

V.  VARIOUS  OMENS  FROM  THE  MOON 

When  the  Moon  disappears,  evil  will  befall  the  land. 
When  the  Moon  disappears  out  of  its  reckoning,  an  eclipse 
will  take  place.  (The  Moon  disappeared  on  the  twenty- 
fourth  day.)  When  a  halo  surrounds  the  Sun  on  the  day 
of  the  Moon's  disappearance,  an  eclipse  of  the  left  side  of 
the  Moon  will  take  place. 


454 


ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 


In  Kislev  a  watch  was  kept  for  the  eclipse,  the  halo  sur- 
rounding the  Sun  and  the  disappearance  of  the  Moon  (be- 
ing the  causes  of  the  watch  for  an  eclipse  in  Kislev)  having 
been  observed.  May  the  king,  my  lord,  know,  and  may 
he  rest  happy!  From  Irasshi-ilu,  the  king's  servant  (the 
gfreater). 

VI.    OMENS  FROM   HALOS 

Last  night  a  halo  surrounded  the  Moon,  and  Jupiter 
and  Scorpio  stood  within  it.  When  a  halo  surrounds  the 
Moon  and  Jupiter  stands  within  it,  the  King  of  Akkad  will 
be  besieged.  When  a  halo  surrounds  the  Moon  and  Jupi- 
ter stands  within  it,  there  will  be  a  slaughter  of  cattle  and 
beasts  of  the  field.  (Marduk  is  Umunpauddu  at  its  ap- 
pearance; when  it  has  risen  for  two  (or  four?)  hours  it 
becomes  Sagmigar;  when  it  stands  in  the  meridian  it  be- 
comes Nibiru.)  When  a  halo  surrounds  the  Moon  and 
Scorpio  stands  in  it,  it  will  cause  men  to  marry  princesses, 
(or)  lions  will  die,  and  the  traffic  of  the  land  will  be  hin- 
dered. (These  are  from  the  series  "When  a  halo  sur- 
rounds the  Moon  and  Jupiter  stands  within  it,  the  King  of 
Aharru  will  exercise  might  and  accomplish  the  defeat  of 
the  land  of  his  foe."  This  is  unpropitious.)  From  Nabu- 
mushcQi. 

When  a  halo  surrounds  the  Moon,  and  Regulus 
stands  within  it,  women  will  bear  male  children.  From 
Nergal-etir.' 

When  a  halo  surrounds  the  Moon  and  a  planet  stands 
within  it,  robbers  will  rage.  (Saturn  stood  within  the  halo 
of  the  Moon.)  When  Jupiter  draws  near  to  Taurus,  the 
good  fortune  of  the  land  passes  away,  (or)  the  generation 
of  cattle  and  shefep  is  not  prosperous.  (Jupiter  has  en- 
tered Taurus:  let  the  king,  my  lord,  keep  himself  from 
the  storm-wind.)  When  Mars  reaches  the  path  of  the  Sun, 
there  will  be  a  famine  of  cattle,  there  will  be  want.  (Mars 
reached  Saturn.)  When  a  planet  and  Mars  stand  facing  one 


REPORTS  OF  THE  MAGICIANS  AND  ASTROLOGERS  455 

another,  there  will  be  an  invasion  of  the  enemy.     When 
Mars,  its  rising  is  dark  *  *  *  its  light  like  *  *  * 

When  the  greater  halo  surrounds  the  Moon,  that  land 
will  be  enlarged,  destructions  will  surround  men.  When 
it  surrounds  and  Cancer  stands  within  it,  the  King  of  Ak- 
kad  will  prolong  life.  When  Regulus  stands  within  it, 
women  will  bear  male  children.  When  the  greater  halo 
surrounds  the  moon  and  is  thin,  there  will  be  a  giving  of 
years  to  the  king.  (A  great  halo  has  surrounded  it,  and  has 
remained  for  many  nights  and  is  uninterrupted.)  From 
Shapiku,  of  Borsippa. 

VII.  WHEN  THE  MOON  AND  SUN  ARE  SEEN  WITH 
ONE  ANOTHER 

(i)  On  the  Twelfth  Day 

When  the  Moon  appears  out  of  its  expected  time,  the 
market  will  be  low.  (It  was  seen  with  the  Sun  on  the 
twelfth.)  When  the  Moon  and  Sun  are  seen  with  one  an- 
other out  of  their  expected  time,  a  strong  enemy  will  over- 
come the  land;  the  King  of  Akkad  will  accomplish  the 
defeat  of  his  foe. 

(2)  On  the  Fourteenth  Day 

When  the  Moon  reaches  the  Sun  and  with  it  fades  out 
of  sight,  its  horns  being  dim,  there  will  be  truth  in  the  land, 
and  the  son  will  speak  the  truth  with  his  father.  (On  the 
fourteenth  the  Moon  was  seen  with  the  Sun.)  When  the 
Moon  and  the  Sun  are  invisible,  the  king  will  increase  wis- 
dom; the  king  of  the  land,  the  foundation  of  his  throne  will 
be  secure.  (On  the  fourteenth  day  the  Moon  was  seen 
with  the  Sun.)  When  the  Moon  and  Sun  are  seen  with 
one  another  on  the  fourteenth,  there  will  be  silence,  the 
land  will  be  satisfied;  the  gods  intend  Akkad  for  happiness. 
Toy  in  the  heart  of  the  people.  The  cattle  of  Akkad  will  lie 
down  securely  in  the  pasture-places.  When  a  dark  halo 
surrounds  the  Moon,  it  gathers  clouds;  that  month  will 


4S6       ASSYRIAN  AND   BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

bring  rain.    When  its  horns  are  dim,  a  flood  will  come, 
(On  the  fourteenth  the  Moon  was  seen  with  the  Sun.) 

About  the  people  concerning  whom  I  sent  to  the  king, 
my  lord,  the  king  does  not  say,  "Why?"  but  has  said,  "Let 
them  bring  them  hither."  Now  the  king  knows  I  hold  no 
land  in  Assyria:  I,  what  is  my  family  to  them,  or  what  my 
life?  Who  is  my  god,  who  is  my  lord,  to  whom  and  how 
are  my  eyes  turned?  Now  let  my  lord,  the  king,  for  whose 
life  I  pray  Shamash,  send  it  unto  Ahisha,  by  royal  au- 
thority, and  let  his  messenger  bring  the  people:  let  the 
governor  of  Babylon  cause  him  to  leave.  Let  Nabu-etir- 
napshati,  my  son,  the  king's  servant,  come,  that  with  me 
he  may  visit  (?)  the  king. 

On  the  fourteenth  the  Moon  and  Sun  were  seen  with 
one  another.  Last  night  a  halo  surrounded  the  Moon, 
Saturn  stood  within  it  near  the  Moon. 

They  shall  bring  in  that  tablet  of  the  Day  of  Bel  which 
we  have  written  for  the  king,  my  lord,  to  see,  and  they 
shall  give  us  the  Akkadian  tablet  of  the  king.  They  shall 
inclose  three  "  stars  "  therein  on  the  front,  and  shall  direct 
the  officer  that  whoever  opens  the  document  shall  close 
it  in  his  presence. 

When  the  Moon  stops  in  its  course  the  market  will  be 
low.  On  the  fifteenth  it  was  seen  with  the  Sun.  Last 
night  a  halo  surrounded  the  Moon,  and  Virgo  and  Spica 
stood  within  it.  When  a  halo  surrounds  the  Moon,  and 
Spica  (Pan)  stands  within  it,  brigands  will  be  rampant,  and 
there  will  be  much  robbery  in  the  land.  When  a  "  river  " 
surrounds  the  Moon,  there  will  be  great  rains  and  showers. 
A-edin  stood  within  the  halo  of  the  Moon.  From  Nabu- 
iqisha,  of  Borsippa. 

(3)  On  the  Fifteenth  Day 

When  Jupiter  goes  with  Venus,  the  prayer  of  the  land 
will  reach  the  heart  of  the  gods.    Marduk  and  ^arpanit  will 


REPORTS  OF  THE  MAGICIANS  AND  ASTROLOGERS  457 

hear  the  prayer  of  their  people,  and  will  have  mercy  on  my 
people. 

Let  them  send  me  an  ass,  that  it  may  ease  my  feet. 
From  Nergal-etir. 

(4)  On  the  Sixteenth  Day 

When  the  Moon  and  Sun  are  seen  with  one  another  on 
the  sixteenth  day,  king  to  king  will  send  hostility.  The 
king  will  be  besieged  in  his  palace  for  the  space  of  a  month. 
The  feet  of  the  enemy  will  be  against  the  land;  the  enemy 
will  march  triumphantly  in  his  land.  When  the  Moon  on 
the  fourteenth  or  fifteenth  of  Tammuz  is  not  seen  with  the 
Sun,  the  king  will  be  besieged  in  his  palace.  When  it  is 
seen  on  the  sixteenth  day,  it  is  lucky  for  Subartu,  evil  for 
Akkad  and  Aharru.    From  Akkullanu. 

VIII.  OMENS  FROM  THE  SUN 
When  the  Sun  stands  in  the  place  of  the  Moon,  the  king 
of  the  land  will  be  secure  on  his  throne.  When  the  Sun 
stands  above  or  below  the  Moon,  the  foundation  of  the 
throne  will  be  secure;  the  king  will  stand  in  his  justice. 
When  the  Sun  and  Moon  are  invisible,  the  king  of  the  land 
will  increase  wisdom.  (Last  night  Saturn  drew  near  to  the 
Moon.  Saturn  is  the  star  of  the  Sun.  This  is  its  interpre- 
tation; it  is  lucky  for  the  king.    The  Sun  is  the  king's  star.) 

IX.    OMENS  FROM  STARS 

When  the  Moon  occults  Jupiter,  that  year  a  king  will 
die,  (or)  an  eclipse  of  the  Moon  and  Sun  will  take  place. 
A  great  king  will  die.  When  Jupiter  enters  the  midst  of 
the  Moon,  there  will  be  want  in  Aharru.  The  King  of  Elam 
will  be  slain  with  the  sword:  in  Subarti  ***(?)  will  re- 
volt. When  Jupiter  enters  the  midst  of  the  Moon,  the 
market  of  the  land  will  be  low.  When  Jupiter  goes  out 
from  behind  the  Moon,  there  will  be  hostility  in  the  land. 

After  two  hours  of  the  night  had  passed,  a  great  star 
shone  from  north  to  south.    Its  omens  are  propitious  for 


458       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

the  king's  desire.  The  King  of  Akkad  will  accomplish 
his  mission.  From  Asharidu  (the  greater),  the  king's 
servant. 

Venus  is  appearing  at  sunset  in  the  Tropic  of  Cancer: 
this  is  its  interpretation.  When  Venus  appears  in  Sivan 
there  will  be  a  slaughter  of  the  enemy.  When  Venus  ap- 
pears in  the  Tropic  of  Cancer  the  King  of  Akkad  will  have 
no  rival.  Five  or  six  days  ago  it  reached  Cancer.  This  is 
its  interpretation.  When  Venus  approaches  Cancer  there 
will  be  obedience  and  welfare  in  the  land:  the  gods  will  have 
mercy  on  the  land.  Empty  ***(?)  will  be  full,  and  the 
crops  of  the  land  will  prosper;  the  sick  in  the  land  will 
recover.  Pregnant  women  will  perfect  their  offspring. 
The  gpreat  gods  will  show  favour  to  the  sanctuaries  of  the 
land,  the  houses  of  the  great  gods  will  be  renewed.  From 
Shumai. 

When  Venus  in  Kislev  from  the  first  to  the  thirtieth 
day  disappears  at  sunrise,  there  will  be  famine  of  corn  and 
straw  in  the  land.  The  lord  of  kings  has  spoken  thus: 
"  Why  hast  thou  not  (observed?)  the  month,  and  sent  the 
lucky  and  unlucky?  "  The  prince  of  the  kingdom  has  been 
neglected,  has  not  been  obeyed.  May  the  lord  of  kings 
when  his  face  is  favourable  lift  up  my  head  that  I  may 
make  my  decisions  and  tell  the  king,  my  lord!  From 
Asharidu. 

When  Mercury  is  seen  in  lyyar,  a  flood  will  come  and 
benefit  the  fields  and  meadow  lands.  When  Jupiter 
reaches  Mars  (Mulmul),  it  will  rain.  On  the  fourteenth 
the  Moon  and  Sun  were  not  seen  with  one  another:  on  the 
fifteenth  god  was  seen  with  god.  The  King  of  Subarti  will 
have  no  rival.  (I  have  heard  from  my  father.)  From  Bel- 
ahi-eriba. 

Mercury  is  visible  with  Mars  at  sunset;  it  is  ascending 
to  Shugi.  There  will  be  rains  and  floods.  When  Jupiter 
appears  at  the  beginning  of  the  year,  in  that  year  its  crops 
will  prosper.    From  Nadinu. 


REPORTS  OF  THE  MAGICIANS  AND  ASTROLOGERS  459 


XII.    OMENS   FROM  STORMS 


When  a  storm  comes  upon  the  land,  the  crops  will  be 
increased,  the  market  will  be  steady.  When  a  storm  pre- 
vails in  the  land,  the  "  reign  "  of  the  land  will  rule  great 
power.  When  a  storm  bursts  in  Sebat,  an  eclipse  of  Kasshi 
will  take  place.    From  Asharidu,  the  king's  servant. 


XIII.    OMENS   FROM   THUNDER 

When  it  thunders  on  the  day  of  the  Moon's  disappear- 
ance, the  crops  will  prosper  and  the  market  will  be 
steady.  When  it  rains  on  the  day  of  the  Moon's  dis- 
appearance, it  will  bring  on  the  crops  and  the  market 
will  be  steady.  Long  live  the  lord  of  kings!  From 
Asharidu. 

When  it  thunders  in  Ab,  the  day  is  dark,  heaven  rains, 
lightning  lightens,  waters  will  be  poured  forth  in  the  chan- 
nels. When  it  thunders  on  a  cloudless  day,  there  will  be 
darkness  (or)  famine  in  the  land. 

Concerning  this  sickness  the  king  has  not  spoken  from 
his  heart.  The  sickness  lasts  a  year:  people  that  are  ill 
recover.  Do  thou  grant}  O  king,  my  lord,  that  they  pursue 
the  worship  of  the  gods  and  pray  the  gods  day  and  night ! 
Does  truth  ever  reach  the  king  and  his  family?  A  man 
should  kill  a  calf  (?)  without  blemish,  he  should  cut  it  in 
pieces;  he  himself  should  say  as  follows:  "  A  man  that  is 
in  full  health,  his  days  are  short  (?);  he  is  sick,  his  days  are 
long."     From  Ishtar-shum-eresh. 

When  it  thunders  in  Tishri,  the  day  is  dark,  heaven 
reigns,  the  rainbow  is  divided,  lightning  lightens,  the  gods 
will  have  mercy  on  the  land.    From  the  Chief  Scribe. 

When  it  thunders  in  Shebat,  there  will  be  an  invasion  of 
locusts.  When  it  thunders  in  Shebat,  heaven  will  rain  with 
stones. 


460       ASSYRIAN   AND  BABYLONIAN  LITERATURE 

XIV.    OMENS  FROM   EARTHQUAKES 

When  the  earth  quakes  in  Nisan,  the  king's  land  will  re- 
volt from  him.  Wheri  the  earth  quakes  during  the  night, 
harm  will  come  to  the  land,  or  devastation  to  the  land. 
From  Apia. 

Last  night  there  was  an  earthquake.  When  the  earth 
quakes  in  Tebet,  the  king  will  sit  in  the  city  of  his  foe. 
When  the  earth  quakes  in  Tebet,  the  palace  of  the  prince 
will  be  smitten  and  go  to  ruins.  When  the  earth  quakes  in 
the  night,  there  will  be  harm  to  the  land  (or)  devastation  to 
the  land.    From  the  Chief  Astrologer. 

XV.    OMENS  FROM  ECLIPSES 

On  the  fourteenth  an  eclipse  will  take  place.  It  is  evil 
for  Elam  and  Aharru,  lucky  for  the  king,  my  lord;  let  the 
king,  my  lord,  rest  happy.  It  will  be  seen  without  Venus; 
to  the  king,  my  lord,  I  say,  "  There  will  be  an  eclipse." 
From  Irasshi-ilu,  the  servant  of  the  king  (the  greater). 

To  the  king  of  countries,  my  lord,  thy  servant,  Bel- 
usur  (?)  May  Bel,  Nabu,  and  Shamash  be  gracious  to  the 
king,  my  lord!  An  eclipse  has  happened,  but  it  was  not 
visible  in  Asshur;  this  eclipse  passed  the  city  Asshur,  where- 
in the  king  is  dwelling;  now  there  are  clouds  ever3rwhere, 
so  that  whether  it  did  or  did  not  happen  we  do  not  know. 
Let  the  lord  of  kings  send  to  Asshur,  to  all  cities,  to  Baby- 
lon, Nippur,  Erech,  and  Borsippa;  whatever  has  been  seen 
in  those  cities  the  king  will  hear  for  certain.  The  omens 
(?)***  the  omen  for  an  eclipse  happened  in  Adar  and 
Nisan;  I  send  all  to  the  king,  my  lord,  and  they  shall  make 
a  nambulbi-ceremony  for  the  eclipse.  Without  fail  (?)  let 
not  the  king  omit  (?)  to  act  rightly.  The  great  gods  in 
the  city  wherein  the  king  dwells  have  obscured  the  heavens 
and  will  not  show  the  eclipse;  so  let  the  king  know  that 
this  eclipse  is  not  directed  against  the  king,  my  lord,  or  his 
country.    Let  the  king  rejoice! 

(When)  it  thunders  in  Nisan,  com  (?)  will  be  diminished. 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

About  B.  c.  3800  Sargon  of  Agadi. 

3000  Gudea  of  Shirpurla. 

2300  Elamite  Invasion  of  Babylonia. 

2287-2233  Hammurabi  of  Babylon. 
1840  Ishme  Dagan,  Patesi  of  Asshur. 

1750  Kassite  Invasion  of  Babylonia. 

1450-1400  Correspondence  between  Kings  of 
Babylonia,  Assyria,  and  Egypt 
(Tel-el- Amama) . 
1320  Shalmaneser  I  of  Assyria. 

1 1 50  Kassite    Dynasty    superseded    by 

Dynasty  of  Pashe. 
1127-1117  Nebuchadrezzar  I  of  Babylon. 
1 120-1 100  Tiglath-pileser  I  of  Assyria, 
iioo-iooo  Aramaean   Migration  into   Meso- 
potamia and  Syria. 
B.  c.     885-  860  Ashurnatsirpal  of  Assyria. 
860-  825  Shalmaneser  II  of  Assyria. 
825-  811  Shamshiramman  of  Assyria. 
811-  782  Rammannirari  III  of  Assyria. 
782-  745  Assyria  in  eclipse  under  Shalmane- 
ser III,  Ashurdan  III,  Ashurni- 
rari. 
745-  727  Tiglath-pileser  III  of  Assyria. 
727-  722  Shalmaneser  IV  of  Assyria. 
722-  705  Sargon  II  of  Assyria. 
705-  682  Sennacherib  of  Assyria. 
682-  668  Esarhaddon  of  Assyria. 
668-  626  Ashurbanipal  of  Assyria. 
461 


462       ASSYRIAN  AND  BABYLONIAN   LITERATURE 

About  B.  c.  606  The  Fall  of  Assyria. 

624-584  Cyaxares  of  Media. 

625-605  Nabopolassar  of  Babylonia. 

605  Battle    of   Carchemish:     Nebuchad- 

rezzar of  Babylon  defeats  Necho 
of  Egypt. 

604-562  Nebuchadrezzar  II  of  Babylon. 

550  Cyrus  king  in  Media,  in  Anshan,  and 

Persia. 

555-539  Nabonidus,  last  King  of  Babylon. 

538  Capture  of  Babylon  and  Fall  of  Baby- 

lonian Empire. 

530-522  Cambyses  of  Persia. 

522  Gaumata  usurps  the  Persian  throne. 

521-486  Darius  II  of  Persia. 


THE   END 


