fKM ,1 . ,■; , ■ 

13 ASIA jjwiiiiw'iaw'it 



«llll«»U''ViWlmillltllS>^A'>lcllH^'.V 



p^l 



xri 



.vj,n 



n^^ 
^ 






CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 
LIBRARY 




i^ 
■^ 



Cornell University Library 
PK 2031.G84 



The modern vernacular of Hindustan. 



3 1924 023 098 589 



VViA 3 ^f^t-o;^ 




Templa qnam dilecta. 

1^. or. STemplE. 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924023098589 



THE 

MODEM TEMACULAE ; LITEEATUEE 





OF 






%. 




/jdiNDTJST 

V 


AN J . 


By GE0EGE A. 


/ 

(GEIEESON^fe.A., B.cs. 






{Printed as a Speoml. Number of the Journal of the Asiatic Society of 

Bengal, Part I, for 1888.] 



CALCUTTA: 

PublishM fry th6 Asiatic Society, 57, Park Street. 
1889. 



Journal, As. Soc, Beng., Vol. LVII, Extra-Number, 1888. 



Plate I. 

Frontispiece. 




' T / I k^^^^^ \ \ \ 



Lichtdruck von E. JafK & A. Albert, Wien. 



KAMA'S CHILDHOOD. 



THE MODEEN YEEMCULAE LITEEATURE 



HINDUSTAN. 



By GEORGE A, GEIERSON, b.a., b c.s. 



■per ben Pic^tcr toitl vevste^en, 
p;uss in Piclifers Janbc ge:^en. 



[PWniei OS a Special Number of the Journal of the Asiatic SocietrJ of Bengal, 

Part I, for 1888.2 



CALCUTTA: 

Published by the Asiatic Society, 57, Park Street. 

188ff. 

^'7 



/ f f i^ ^.=2 /3 



^ 



CONTENTS. 



Page. 

Preface vii 

Inteoductiom — 

(a) The sources from which the information contained in 

this work is derived xiii 

(h) Principles of arrangement of the contents . . . x^ 
(c) A brief account of the vernacular litej'ature of 

Hindustan zvi 

{d) Description of the plates xxiii' 

Chaptee I— The Bardic Period [700—1300 A.D.] 1 

II — The Religious Revival of the Fifteenth Century ... 7 

Addenda 13 

III— The Eomantic Poetry of Malik Muhammad [1540 A.D.] . 16 

Addenda IS 

IV— The Krisna-cult of Braj [1600—1600] 19 

Addenda 31 

V— The Mughal Court • . .34 

VI— Tul'si Das 42 

Addenda I— The text of Tul'si Das 51 

„ II — Other versions of the Bama legend . 57 

VII— The ArsPoetica [1580— 1692 A.D.] 58 

VIII— Other successors of Tul'si Das [1600—1700 A.D.]— 

Part I - Religious Poets 67 

„ II— Other Poets 70 

Addenda 80 

IX— The Eighteenth Century- 
Introductory Note 85 

Part I — £«ligious Poets . . .... 86 

„ II— Other Poets 87 

Addenda . . . . ^ . ... 100 
X — Hindustan under the Company [1800—1857] — 

Introductory Note 107 

Part I — Bunderkhand and Baghel'khand . .109 

Addenda US 

Part II — Banaras 117 

Addenda . 126 

Part III— Audh 127 

Addenda . 130 

Part IV— Miscellaneous 133 

Addenda 143 



IV CONTENDS. 

Page. 

Chapteb XI — Hindustan under the Queen [1857— 1887] . . . .145 
Note on the Hindi and the Biharl Drama .... 154 

Addenda 166 

„ XII — Miscellaneous 160 

Indices. 



ILLUSTRATI0N3. 



Plate I — EIma's childhood Frontispiece. 

„ II — Facsimilb (ebducbd) op ten pages of the 

BIjIfub BlulTAN To face p- 47 

„ III — Facsiuile (ebducbd) of thebe pages op the 

Banabas MS. of the BauXyan . . . To face p. 51 

„ IV — Photogeaph op a deed of aebiteation in the 

handweiting of Tul'si Das 51 



PREFACE. 



In the year 1886 it was my privilege to read, at the 
International Congress of Orientalists at Vienna, a paper 
on the Mediaeval Vernacular Literature of Hindustan with 
special reference to Tul'sl Das. The preparation of this 
necessitated the arrangement of the notes on the entire 
vernacular literature of Northern India, which I had 
collected through a long series of years, although the essay 
itself dealt with only a portion of the literature which 
existed hefore the 17th century. 

Encouraged by the attention with which this paper was 
received, I have endeavoured to give in the present work a 
more complete view of the vernacular literature of 
Hindustan from the earliest times to the present day. It 
does not pretend to be more than a list of all the vernacular 
writers whose names I have been able to collect, nine 
hundred and fifty-two in number, of whom only some 
seventy have been previously noticed by Garcin de Tassy in 
his Histoire de la Uteratttre hindome et Mndoustanie. 

It will be observed that I deal only with modern 
vernacular literature. I therefore giv6 no particulars 
concerning authors of purely Sanskrit works, and exclude 
from consideration books written in Prakrit, even when 
it may have been a vernacular, as not connoted by the term 
modern. Nor do I record the names of Indian writers 
in Arabic or Persian, or in the. exotic literary Urdu, and 



VIU PREFACE. 



I have been the more willing to exclude these last from our 
present consideration as they have been already exhaustively 
dealt with by Garcin de Tassy. I may add that by Hindustan 
I mean Eaj'putana and the valleys of the Jamuna and of 
the Ganges as far east as the river Kos!, and that I do not 
include under that term either the PaSjab or Lower Bangal. 
The vernacular languages dealt with may roughly be 
considered as three in number, Mar' war!, Hindi, and BiharT, 
each with its various dialects and sub-dialects. One omission 
must be mentioned with regret. I have refrained from 
including the large number of anonymous folk-epics and of 
folk-songs (such as Icafris, jafsars, and the like) current 
throughout Northern India. These can only be collected 
on the spot from the mouths of the people, and, so far as 
I am aware, that has only been systematically done in the 
province of Bihar. I have therefore, after some hesitation, 
determined to exclude all mention of them from the work, 
as any attempt to describe them as a whole could only have 
been incomplete and misleading. 

The introduction will explain the principle of arrange- 
ment adopted in this work. Many of the entries are mere 
names of authors and nothing more, which I have included to 
make the book as complete as possible. When any infor- 
mation was available, I have entered it against the author's 
name referred to ; and in some cases I have, I believe, been 
able to present information which has not hitherto been 
placed at the disposal of European scholars. As examples 
of this, I would refer the reader to the a-rticles on Sur Das 
(No. 37) and on Tul'sl Das (No. 128). I do not pretend to 
have read all or even a considerable portion of the large 



PREFACE. IX 



body of literature catalogued in these pages, but I have seen 

and studied specimens of the works of nearly all the nine 

hundred and fifty-two authors whose names are mentioned. 

Nor do I pretend to have understood all I have studied ; for 

many of the specimens are so difficult tha,t it is hopeless to 

attempt their interpretation without the aid of a commentary, 

either oral or documentary. For this reason I do not 

venture to call this book a formal History of Literature. The 

subject is too vast, and the present state of our knowledge is 

too limited to allow such a task to be attempted. I therefore 

only offer it as a collection of materials which will form a 

foundation upon which others more fortunate than I am, 

and with more time at their disposal than a Bengal District 

Collector, may build. 

Regarding the spelling of vernacular words, I have 
adhered to the system followed by Dr. Hoernle and myself 
in our Comparative Dictionary of the Bihari Language, to 
which the reader is referred for particulars. It may be 
briefly stated as spelling every word rigidly as it is pro- 
nounced. I have only deviated from this rule in the case of 
the names of a few living gentlemen, natives of India. On 
the principle that every one has a right to spell his own name 
as he likes, I have spelt their names as they sign themselves 
when writing in the English character. The chief difficulty 
experienced has been in the division of groups of words 
forming proper names. It has been found by no means an 
easy task to secure uniformity without leading to results 
which were too strange and too variant from actual use to 
be adopted. Present custom in this respect, though con- 
venient, has no system, and the adoption of any system 



PEEFACE. 



must consequently lead to a certain amount of confusion. 
I have endeavoured to divide the same name in the same 
way whenever it occurred in the book, but I regret that 
amongst the four thousand and odd names which occur 
there have been some lapsus calami. 

Apologies for dealing with the Neo-Indian vernaculars 
are not now so necessary as they would have been twenty 
years ago. At first, oriental scholars devoted themselves to 
Sanskrit alone, and then, under the guidance of Burnouf, 
attacked Pall. In later years the classical Prakrits have 
attracted students, and thus the age of the object of our re- 
searches has become more and more modem in its character. 
I now ask my readers to take again one step over the very 
short gap which separates the latest Prakrit from the earliest 
Gaudian literature. Hemachandra flourished about 1150 
A.D.,^ and Chand Bar'dai, the first of the Gaudian poets of 
whom we have at present any certain remains, died in 1193. 

It is possible, however, that some oriental students may 
still cliog to the old love for Sanskrit, and these I mtist ask 
to test the rich ore found in the following pages, which 
contain the names of several vernacular commentaries on 
difficult Sanskrit books,* and of numerous technical works 
on such subjects as Grammar,- Prosody, Vocabiilary,* Com- 
position, and the like. The student of inscriptions will also 
find a productive mine in the literature of Hindustan, owing 
to the custom which vernacular poets had of dating their 
works and of naming their patrons. Besides this the muse 

' He died 1172 A.D. 

' For instance, Guman Ji (No. 349) wrote a commentary of great reputation 
on the Nmsadha. He lived early in the ISth. century. 

'" For instance, Daya Earn (No. 387) wrote a useful anehSrtkakosa. 



PKEFACE. XI 



of History, so silent in Sanskrit literature, has been assi- 
duously cultivated by these authors, and we have still 
extant historical works founded on materials which were 
written so far back as the ninth centiuy. I therefore ven- 
ture to put forward claims for attention not only from those 
scholars who have hitherto devoted themselves to Prakrit 
literature, but also from those who love to wander amid 
the intricacies of the Nmsadha, or to apply themselves to 
the copper-plate grants of The Indian Antiquary. 

There is another claim which I would mention, and 
that is the intrinsic merit of the Neo-Gaudian literature. 
After all that is said, the later Sanskrit and the Prakrit 
poems are but artificial productions, written in the closet 
by learned men for learned men; but the Neo-Gaudian poets 
wrote for unsparing critics, — ^the people. Many of them 
studied nature and wrote what they saw. They found 
' tongues in trees,' and as they interpreted what they heard 
successfully or not, so was their popularity great or small, 
and so their works lived after them or not. Several works 
exist whose authors' names we do not even know; but 
they have remained living voices in the people's hearts, 
because they appealed to the sense of the true and of the 
beautiful.* 

It is hoped that the three indexes will be found useful. 
Considerable trouble has been expended in order to make 
them as accurate as possible. 

GEORGE A. GEIEESON. 

' I refer to the folk epics, hdra masas (songs of the seasons), Jcajaris, and 
other songs current throughout India which are referred to above. 



INTRODUCTION. 



(cr.) The sources from whioh the information contained in this 

worfi is derived. 

The work is founded in great measure on notes collected by 
myself from innumerable texts bought in the bazars. It is derived 
almost entirely from native sources. Wilson's Religious Sects of 
the Hindus and Garcin de Tassy's various works, especially his 
History of Hindui and Hindustani Literature, have been frequently 
consulted as checks ; and when the information given by them differed 
from that which I had collected, I have spared no trouble in order to 
ascertain the correct facts. The only English work which I have 
taken as an authority has been Tod's Bdjdsthdn, which contains much 
information not readily available elsewhere concerning the bards of 
Eaj'putana. I have endeavoured to check Tod, as far as possible, by 
reference to competent native authorities, and in this respect I have 
specially to thank Pandit Mohan Lai Visnu Lai Pandia, of Udjapur, 
for much assistance most kiadly given to me. 

A native work on which I have largely depend,ed, and to which 
I am indebted for the information given regarding nearly all the 
minor poets, and many of the more important ones, is the very 
useful Sib, Siygh Saroj, by Sib Siggh Sggar, published by Munshi 
Nawal Kishor, of Lakh'nau (2nd edition, 1883). This is a compi- 
lation from former anthologies, including most of those named below. 
In addition to the Saroj, I have myself consulted all the available 
anthologies which I have been able to collect, including many 
already worked through by Sib Siggh. When any poet's works 
are found in one or more of the principal of these, I have pointed 
out the fact against his name, by commencing the article with an 
abbreviation of . the name of the anthology. I have not always 
done this in the case of minor anthologies, and in the case of one or 
two which came into my hands while the book was passing through 
the press. A work of this kind crescit eundo. 

With regard to the dates given for the various authors, I have 
taken some trouble to verify them as far as I could. Vernacular 
poets had a laudable practice of dating their works, whioh has been 
useful in many cases. They also frequently mentioned their patrons j 



XlV 



INTRODUCTION. 



and when these could be identified, they often gave a useful clue. 
When aU other methods failed, I had in many cases the SaroJ as a 
guide. Sib Singh continually gives dates, and I have generally found 
them fairly accurate, — with this proviso, that he always gives his date 
as that of the birth of the poet referred to, when in reality it is not 
seldom the date of his principal work.^ The Sardj's dates have, at 
any rate, this value, that, in default of any other authority, we may be 
pretty certain that the author referred to was alive on the date which 
Sib Singh gives as that of his birth. In the present treatise any dates 
depending only on his authority have been printed in italics. I would 
draw attention to the addenda, which give some dates which I have 
been able to fix while the work was passing through the press. 

The following is a list of the anthologies and other works which 
form the basis of this book : — 



Ho. 



Name of anthology. 



AbbreviatioD, 



Author's name. 



Bate. 



10 
11 

13 

13 
14 
15 
16 

17 

18 



Shakt Mala 
Gosli Charitr' 

Kabi Mala ... 

Hajara 

£abya Mr'nay 
Sat-kabi-gira Bilas... 
List of poets praised 

by Sudan. 
Bidwan Mod Tarag- 

gini. 
£ag-SagaTddbhab 

I^g-Kalpadram. 
Sriggar Saggrab ... 
Urdu translation of 

Bhakt Mala. 
Bas Cbandrdday ... 

Dig-bijH Bhukhan.. . 
SnndariTilak 
Kabya Sagjjrah ... 
Kabi Batnakar 

Sib Sirigb Saroj ... 
Bichitropades^ 



Bhakt. ... 
Go. ... 

Mai. ... 

Haj. ... 

Nir. ... 

Sat. ... 

Sud. ... 

Bid. ... 

Eag. ... 

Srigg. ... 
U. Bhakt. 

Bas. 

Dig. ... 
Sun. 

Kab. ... 

Kab. ... 

Sib. ... 
Bioh. ... 



Nabhaji Das (No. 61) ... 
Beni Madbab Das (No. 

130). 
Tul'si (No. 153) 
KalidasTribedi(No. 159) 
Bhikhari Das (No. 344) 
Bal Deb (No. 359) 
Sudan (No. 367) 

Subba Siggh (No. 590) ... 

Srish'nanand Bvas Deb 

(No. 638). 
Sar'dar (No. 671) 
Tul'siBam(No. 640) ... 

Thakur Par' sad Tripathi 

(No. 670). 
Gokul Par'sad (No. 694) 
Harishchandr' (No. 681) 
Mahes Datt" (No. 696)... 
Mata Din Misar (No. 



Sib Siggh Stgar (No. 695) 
Nak'chhedi Tiwari 



About 1650 iuD. 
About 1600. 

1655'. 
1718. 

About 1726. 
1746. 
About 1760. 

1817. 

1843. 

1848. 
1864. 

1863. 

1868. 
1869. 
1875. 
1876. 

1883. ' 
1887. 



• Sometimes, e.g. in the case of Man Siggh (No. 699), he gives the date 
of the poet's death as that of his birth. 

2 This book is not mentioned in the body of the work, which only goes 
down to 1883. It is published at the Kashika Press, Banaras. The author's 
name is Nak'chhedi Tiwari alias Ajan Kabi, of Dum'raw. He worked in 
collaboration with Sudhakar Kabi. It is an anthology of didactic pieces in a 
comic style. About fifty well-known poets are quoted. 



INTRODUCTION. XV 

It will be useful to insert here explanations of the Hindi terms 
corresponding to a few EngUeh technical terms used by me. The nine 
rasas or styles are as follows : — 

1. Sriygdr Sas, translated by me as " Ihe erotic style." 



2. 


Hdsya Sas, 


ditto 


"the comic style." 


3. 


Karuna Sas, 


ditto 


" the elegiac style." 


4. 


Blr Sas, 


ditto 


" the heroic style." 


5. 


Smidr' Sas, 


ditto 


" the tragic style," 


6. 


Bhayanak Sas, 


ditto 


" the terrible style." 


7. 


Bibhatsa, 


ditto 


" the satiric style." 


8. 


Shanii Sas, 


ditto 


" the quietistic style." 


9. 


Adbhiit Sas, 


ditto 


" the sensational style." 



These translations do not pretend to be exact. Each is simply a 
convenient representation of one Hindi word by one English one. 

An explanation of the terms Nakh'sikh, Nayak Bhed, and 
Ndyikd Bhed will be found in the foot-note to No. 87. 

The word Sdmayik, when used with reference to a work, I have, 
not without hesitation, rendered by " occasional." Chetdoni I have 
translated by " didactic." By " emblematic " verses (in Hindi drishp 
kut) I mean those fanciful enigmatic tours de force which are 
familiar to Sanskrit scholars who have studied the Nalodaya and the 
Kirdtdrjunlya. 

ib.) Principles of , Arrangement of the Contents. 

Endeavour has been made to arrange the contents as much as 
possible in chronological order. This has not always been easy, and in 
some cases it has been found to be impossible. Hence those poets 
whose dates I have been unable to fix, ever so tentatively, I have 
grouped together in alphabetical order in the last chapter. While the 
work was passings through the press I found myself unexpectedly in 
possession of the approximate dates of a few of these when it was too 
late to introduce them into their proper places. They have therefore 
remained in the last chapter, but, to prevent mistakes, I have drawn 
attention to them in the addenda. 

The work is divided into chapters, each roughly representing a 
period. The sixteenth and the seventeenth centuries, the Augustan age 
pf Indian vernacular poetry, occupy six chapters, not strictly divided 
according to periods of time, but according to groups of poets, 
commencing with the romantic poetry of Malik Muhammad, and 
including amongst others the Krisna cult of Braj, the works of Tul'si 
Das (to whom a special chapter has been allotted), and the technical 
school of poets founded by Kesab Das. 



XVI INTRODUCTION. 

After each chapter are given addenda in small type, showing 
particulars of the minor poets belonging to the period or to the 
group dealt with. For most of the information contained in these 
addenda I am indebted to the Sib Siygh Saroj. 

(c.) A Brief Account of the Vernacular Literature of Hindustan. 

As far as my information goes, the earliest vernacular literature 
of Hindustan is the bardic chronicles of Raj'putana. The first bard 
of whom we have any certain information was the well-known Chand 
Bar'dai, who celebrated, towards the end of the twelfth century, 
the fortunes of Prithwi Eaj, the ChaJuMn, of Dilli, in the famous 
Prithi Rdj Rdi/sd, Contemporary with him was the bard Jag'nayak, 
who attended the court of Prithwi Raj's great rival, Paramardi of 
Mahoba, and who was probably the author of the Alhd KJiand, a work 
equally famous in Hindustan with the Prithi Rdj Rdi/sd, but which 
has had the misfortune of being preserved by oral tradition instead of 
in manuscript. 

To continue the history of these bardic chronicles, we may men- 
tion Qarngadhara, or Saraijg Dhar, who sung, in the middle of 
the fourteenth century, the prowess of the heroic Hammir of 
Ran'thambhor (fl. 1300). Passing over Keh'ri (fl. 1580) of Bur'- 
han'pur, we come to two brilliant groups of bards who adorned the 
courts of Mewar and Mar'war in the 17th century. To these may be 
added names like that of Lai (fl. 1650), who wrote a valuable history 
of Bundel'khand, and those of other minor poets. After the 17th 
century the Raj'put bards lost their distinctive character, and while 
the greater number became merged in the sea of the other vernacular 
poets of India, the few that remained degenerated into mere compilers 
of facts derived from older records. 

It is hardly necessary to do what Tod has already done in such 
glowing language, and to point out how completely these Eaj'ptit 
bards wash away the reproach so often levelled against Indian Kter- 
ature, that it contains no historical works. The value of these bardic 
chronicles, some of which are derived from older works dating^as far 
back as the 9th century A.D., can hardly be over-estimated. It is 
true that they contain many legends which are of doubtful authen- 
ticity ; but what contemporary European chronicle does not contain 
the same ? They also embody the history of Raj'putana during the 
whole of the struggles between India and its Musalman invaders, 
written by a series of contemporary authors extending over at least 



INTRODUCTION. XVU 

six centuries. Is it unreasonable to hope that some enli^tened 
prince of Eaj'putana will rescue these documents from the undeserved 
obscurity in which they lie, and publish the texts of all of them, with 
English translations ? 

Turning aside from these bardic historians we may now revert 
to the growth of vernacular literature ia the Gangetic valley, coin- 
cident with the rise of the Vaishnava religion at the commencement 
of the 15th century. Ramanand, the popularizer of the worship of 
Eama, flourished about the year 1400 ; and even greater than he was 
his famous disciple Kabir, who succeeded in founding a still existing 
sect, which united the salient points of Muhammadanism and Hinduism. 
Here we first touch upon that marvellous catholicity of sentiment of 
which the key-note was struck by Ramanand, which is visible iu the 
doctrines of aU his successors, and which reached its truest height in 
the lofty teachiug of Tul'si Das two centuries later. The worship of 
the deified prince of Audh, and the loving adoration of Sita, the perfect 
wife and the perfect mother, have developed naturally into a doctrine of 
eclecticism in its best form — a doctrine which, while teaching the infinite 
vileness of mankind before the Infinitely Good, yet sees good in every- 
thing that He has created, and condemns no religion and no system 
of philosophy as utterly bad that inculcates. Thou shalt love the 
Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all 
thy strength, and with aU thy mind ; and thy neighbour as thyself. » 

Far different has been the fate of that other great branch of the 
Vaishnava religion which is fouiided on mystic iaterpretations of the 
love which Krisna bare to Radha. Beautiful in itself, paralleled, also, 
by the teaching of many Christian doctors, and rendered more beauti- 
ful by the magic poetry of Mira Bai (fl. 1420) in the west, and of 
Bidyapati Thakur (fl. 1400) in the east, its passionate adoration, 
whose inner meaning was too esoteric for the spirits of the common 
herd of disciples, lq many cases degenerated into a poetry worthy of 
only the baser sorts of Tantrik Qiva worshippers. But at its best 
the Krisna cult is wanting in the nobler elements of the teaching 
of Ramanand. Its essence is almost selfish — a soul-absorbing, nay 
all-absorbing, individual love cast at the feet of Him who is Love itself. 



' Mr. Growse (e.g. in the note to Earn. Ba. Doha, 24) has pointed out, 
in his translation of the Bdm-eharH-mdnas, several points of resemblance 
between the doctrines of the Christian Church and those of Tul'si Das. There 
are hymns in our Church hymnals which might be literal translations of 
passages written by this great poet. 



XVln INTRODUCTION. 

. It teaches the first and great commandment of the Christian law, but 
the second, which is Kke unto it — Thou shalt love thy neighbour as 
thyseH — it omits. 

Leaving these two sects aside for a moment, we must pause at 
one remarkable man, who in some respects was an offshoot from the 
BSj'put bards, while on the other hand his writings bear strong 
marks of the influence of Kabir's teaching. Malik Muhammad 
(fl. 1540) studied under both Musalman and Hindu doctors, and wrote, 
'in the purest vernacular of his time, the fine philosophic epic entitled 
the Padmdwat. This work, while telling in vivid language the story 
of Eatan Sen's quest for the fair Padmawat, of Alau'd-dln's siege 
of the virgin city of ChitaJur, of Eatan's bravery, and of Padmawat's 
wifely devotion which culminated in the terrible sacrifice of all in the 
doomed city that was true and fair, to save it from the lust of the 
conqueror, is also an allegory describing the search of the soul for true 
wisdom, and the trials and temptations which assail it in its coursa 
Malik Muhammad's ideal is high, and throughout the work of the 
Musalman ascetic there run veins of the broadest charity and of 
sympathy with those higher spirits among his Hindu fellow-country- 
men who were groping in the dark for that light of which so many 
of them obtained glimpses. 

To the mere student of language the Padmawat possesses, by a 
happy accident, inestimable value. Composed in the earlier portion 
of the 16th century, it gives us a representation of the speech and of 
the pronunciation of those days. Hindu writers, tied by the fetters 
of custom, were constrained to spell their words, not as they were 
pronounced, but as they were written in the old Sanskrit of their 
forefathers. But Malik Muhammad cared not for Hindu customs 
and wrote his work in the Persian character, thus giving necessarily 
a phonographic representation of every word he wrote. The system 
was not perfect, for, as was customary, vowels were seldom indicated, 
but in the P.admawat we have the consonantal framework of each 
word put down as it was pronounced at the time of writing. 

With Malik Muhammad, the period of the apprenticeship of 
vernacular Hterature in Hindustan may be said to have come to a 
close. The young giant had bestirred himseK, and found that he was 
strong; and, young and lusty as an eagle, he went forth rejoicing to 
run his course. The earlier Eaj'put bards wrote in a time of tran- 
sition, in a language which it would be difficult to define accurately 
either as a late Prakrit or as an old form of the modern language of 



INTRODUCTION. XIX 



E.a.j'putana. This was the period of infancy. Then came that of 

youth, when, with the revival of a popular religion to fill the place 

once taken by Buddhism, the teachers of the new doctriae had to 

write in a tongue ' understanded of the people.' Mahk Muhammad 

and the apostles of the two Vaishnava sects had to feel their way, and 

walked with uncertainty. When they wrote, the language spoken was 

practically the same as that spoken- now in the rural parts of India, 

and they must have felt the same hesitation which Spenser and Milton 

felt in writing in their vernacular. Spenser chose the wrong method 

and cast his Faerie Queene into an antique mould, but MUton, though 

he once thought of .writing his Paradise Lost in Latin, dared to be 

right, and thenceforward the English language was made. So was 

it in India, — the first vernacular authors dared greatly, and succeeded. 

The 16th and 17th centuries form the Augustan age of Hindu- 

stani vernacular literature. JTearly every great writer of the country 

lived during this period. Its greatest writers were contemporaries 

with our masters of the reign of Elizabeth, and, to us English, it is 

interesting to note that when our country first came into contact 

by its ambassadors with the Mughal court, and when the East India 

Company was first founded, each of the nations, separated so widely 

by sea and land, was at its culminating point of literary glory. We 

must consider separately the various groups of authors who flourished 

during this age. 

It was in BraJ, the cotmlry of the cowpens and the scene of the 
childhood of Krisna and of his early amours with the herdmaidens of 
Gokula, that the Krisna cult naturally took its strongest root ; and 
during the 16th century it was the home of a school of poets devoted 
to the worship of that god, founded by the great apostle BaUabha- 
char*]" and his son Bitthal Nath. Of their eight principal disciples, 
grouped under the name of the Ashfa Chhap, Krish'n Das and Sur 
Das were the ones most celebrated. The latter is considered by his 
fellow-countrymen to shaje with Tul'si Das the throne of absolute 
perfection in the art of poesy ; but European critics wiLL be incHned 
to award the. latter poet alone the supreme crown, and to relegate the 
blind bard of Ag^ra to a lower, though still an honourable, place. 
One more poet of this group may here be noticed for his fame as 
a singer. I allude to Tan Sen, wHo besides being an author was chief 
court-singer to the Emperor Ak'bar. The principal native authority 
for the Krisna poets of the 16th century is the enigmatical Bhakt 
Mala of Nabha Das, with its various commentaries. 



XX INTEODUCTION. 

While the successors of Ballabhiichar'j were filling Braj with their 
music, the not distant Mughal Court at Dilli had collected a group 
of state poets, some of whom were of no mean reputation. Todar 
Mall, who besides being a great finance minister was the immediate 
cause of the acceptance of the Urdu language, BirHbal, Ak'bar's 
friend and author of many witty impromptus, 'Abdu'r Eahlm 
Khan'khana, and Man Siggh of Amer, were more famous as the 
patrons of authors than as vemacidar writers themselves; but 
Nar'hari, Hari Nath, Karan, and Gagg, are justly celebrated as poets 
of a high rank. 

Tul'si Das (fl. 1600, d. 1624), the greatest poet of the deeds of 
Ram, occupies a position amongst these authors peculiar to himself. 
Far diEEerent from the founders of the Braj school, who were surrounded 
by numerous imitators and successors, he lived iuBanaras, unapproach- 
able and alone in his niche iu the Temple of Fame. Disciples he had 
in plenty, — ^to-day they are numbered by millions, — but imitators, none. 
Looking back along the vista of centuries we see his noble figure 
standing in its own pure light as the guide and saviour of Hindustan. 
His influence has never ceased — nay, it has increased and is still 
increasing ; and when we reflect on the fate of Tantra-ridden Bengal or 
on the wanton orgies which are carried out under the name of Krisna 
worship, we can justly appreciate the work of the man who first iu 
India siace Buddha's time taught man's duty to his neighbour and 
succeeded in getting his teaching accepted. ' His g^eat work is at the 
present day the one Bible of a hundred millions of people ; and fortunate 
has it been for them that they had this guide. It has been received as 
the perfect example of the perfect book, and thus its influence has not 
only been exercised over the unlettered multitude, but over the long 
series of authors who followed him, and especially over the crowd who 
sprung into existence with the introduction of printrug at the 
beginning of the present century. As Mr. Growse well says in the 
introduction to his translation of the Ramayan of this author, 
" the book is in every one's hands, from the court to the cottage, and 
-is read or heard and appreciated aKke by every class of the Hindu 
■ community, whether high or low, rich or poor, young or old." For 
further particulars concerning him the reader is referred to the body 
of this work. 

This Augustan age was not only a period of the erotic poetry 
of Sur Das and of the nature-poetry of Tul'si, but was also signalized 
by the first attempts to systematize the art of poetry itself. The 



INTKODUCTION. XXI 

young growth had shown a tendency to shoot forth too luxuriantly, 
and even Malik Muhammad wrote verses which were quaintly 
unmusical. Siir Das and Tul'si Das possessed the strength of giants, 
and were far beyond their contemporaries in polish and in a 
sense of proportion ; but the works of the other early writers of this 
period jarred upon the senses of scholars brought up in the strictly 
classical schools of Sanskrit philology. So, after one or two earlier 
attempts by minor authors, such as the poet Khem (No. 87), Kesab 
Das (fl. 1580) stepped forward and settled for ever the canons of 
poetic criticism. A romantic story connects him with the poetess 
Par'bin Eai, and it is said that it was for her sake that he composed 
his great work the Kdbi-priyd. Seventy years later, in the middle 
of the seventeenth century, Ohintamani Tripathi and his brothers 
amplified and developed the rules laid down by him. This group of 
critical poets is fitly closed at the end of the 17th century by KaKdas 
Tribedl, the author of the Hajara, the first great anthology of extracts 
from the works of the Augustan age of Hindustan. 

The latter half of this period, that is to say the 17th century, 
saw the rise of some remarkable religious sects, which gave birth to a 
considerable body of literature. The principal reformers who may be 
mentioned were Dadu (fl. 1600), founder of the Dadu PanthI sect ; 
Pran Nath (fl. 1650), the founder of the Pran'nathis ; and Gobind 
Singh (fl. 1698), the founder of the militant Sikh religion and 
compiler of the Granth, or holy book of that sect. 

The Eaj'put bards of this Augustan period have been already 
referred to, and, passing by the lubrio but popular Nazir, the only 
other great poet of the time who need be mentioned is the graceful 
Bihari Lai Chaube (fl. 1650), nick-named "the mine of commen- 
tators." Never was a description more accurate. He was the author of 
seven hundred verses, for each of which he received a gold ashrafi as a 
reward from his patron Jai Siggh. Each verse is a perfectly polished 
jewel, designedly made as artificial as possible and capable of a double 
meaning. The greatest authors have not disdained to write com- 
mentaries elucidating the marvellous difficulties of this tour de force. 

With this graceful writer our survey of the Augustan age of 
Hindustani vernacula,r literature is concluded. From the early years 
of the 18th century commences a comparatively barren period. It 
was the period of the decline and fall of the Mughal empire and of 
the supremacy and fall of the Maratha power. RSj'putana itself was 
torn by intrigues, prince struggling with prince to rob his neighbour 



XXU INTRODUCTION. 



in the general los& of authority coincident with the cessation of Mughal 
supremacy. Bards there were few, and, as these could only sing of 
bloodshed and treachery, they preferred to remain silent. In other 
branches of literature there was a similar decay. No original authors of 
the first rank appeared, and the only great names we meet are those of 
commentators on the works of the preceding two centuries, and of men 
who further developed the critical laws founded by Kesab Das. Of the 
last, the best known were TJday Nath Tribedi and Jas'want Singh, the 
authors of the Eae-ehandroday and of the Bhakha Bhukhan respect- 
ively. Similarly there appeared a number of anthologies, such as the 
Sat-kabi-gira Bilds of Bal Deb, the Kdbya Nii'nay of Bhikhari Das, 
and others, t'he end of the century is redeemed from barrenness by 
the Prem Ratna, the work of one of the few poetesses of India — Bibi 
Eatan KSar. 

The first half of the 19th century, commencing with the down- 
fall of the Maratha power andr ending with the Mutiny, forms 
another well-marked epoch. It was the period of renascence after the 
literary dearth of the previous century. The printing-press now for 
the first time found its practical introduction into Northern India, 
and, led by the spirit of Tul'sl Das, literature of a healthy kind 
rapidly spread over the land. It was the period of the birth of the 
Hindi language, invented by the English, and first used as a vehicle 
of literary prose composition in 1803, under Gilchrist's tuition, by 
Lallu Ji Lai, the author of the Prem Sugar. It was also a period 
of transition from the old to the new. The printing-press had not 
yet penetrated to Central India, and there the old state of afEairs 
continued. Poets, of whom Padmakar Bhatt was the most famous, 
not unworthily wore the mantle which had desc^ided from Kesab 
Das and Chintamani Tripathi, while Bikram Sahi wrote an ingenious 
Sat Sal in imitation of the more famous one of Bihari LaL 

In Banaras, on the contrary, the art of printing gave a new 
audience to the learned ; and to supply the demand thus created, 
several works of the first importance appeared. The chief of these 
was the translation of the Mahdhharata into Hindi by Gokul Nath. 
Critical writers of a new school also came to the front, of whom the 
best, longo intervallo, was Harishchandr*, the author of the Sundarl 
Tilak and many other excellent works ; while in Eaja Siva Prasad 
the cause of education received an enlightened friend, and a pioneer 
in that most difficult work, the writing of good school-books. Lallu 
Ji Lai, the author of the Prem Sdgar, has already been mentioned ; 



INTRODUCTION. XXUl 

and another product of Calcutta civilisation, of a very different kind, 
was the huge anthology of Krish'nanand Byas Deb, called the Rdg- 
Bdgarbdhhab Rdg-Kalpadrum, written in emulation of the better 
known Sanskrit lexicon, the Gdbda-Kalpadruma. 

The same period saw the rise of the Hindi drama,^ which is now 
firmly established, and gives a hope of achieving considerable excel- 
lence in the near future. 

The post-Mutiny days this sketch will not touch upon. A brief 
imperfect account wiU be found in the body of this work. It may 
further be noted that more extended reviews of the literature of the 
principal periods will also be found in the introductions to chapters 
VII to XI. AH that has been attempted in the present note has 
been to show the most salient points of a not inglorious past in the 
vernacular literary history of Hindustan. 

(rf.) Description of the Plates. 

The frontispiece represents llama's childhood in Kausalya's house. 
I am indebted for it to the kindness of Raja S'iva Prasad, c.s.i., who 
procured the original photograph of one of the illustrations in the 
magnificently-illuminated M.S. belonging to the Maharaj of Banaras. 

To the kindness of the same gentleman I am indebted for the 
other plates, which are photographs of ten pages of the Baj'pur 
Rdmdyan, described on page 45, believed to be in the poet's handwrit- 
ing, of three pages of the old Banaras M.S. referred to on the same 
page, and of a deed of arbitration said to be in the poet's own hand- 
writing. A transliteration and translation of the first two will be 
found on page 51 of this work, and of the last in the Addenda, 

The frontispiece has already appeared, I believe, in one edition of 
Mr. Qrowse's excellent translation of the Ramdyan ; but as this work 
appeals to quite a different class of readers, and as the picture is 
itself a worthy specimen of Hindu art, I do not hesitate to give it 
here again. 

' See also section 706 in the body of the work. 



ADDENDA ET CORRIGENDA. 



NoTB.— In pointing out misprints, I have not taken the trouble to correct 
instances of unsystematic division of compound words. Such mistakes will in 
no case lead to difficulty, and they will be found corrected in the indices. 

4. Kumar Pal reigned 1088—1172 A.D. The famous Himaehandm 
flourished at his court. 

20. Mlr3i Bai. Note". Head Tod, ii, 21. 

23. Charan DSts: Read Gydn SwarSday, 

34. BallabhSiohSr'J. P. 19, I. 6 from bottom, read Harishchandr'; p. 20, 
I. 9, read Atfubhasya. Add ' This work is being published in the Bihliotheca 
Indica.' 

37. Sdr Das. Bead ^t ^re, not ^T^T'?. 

51. Nabha Das. P. 28. I. 8, read HitopadSga. 

64. Byaa Swami. Bead Sukal. So also in 66, Hit Haribans. 

70. Keh'rh Bead Tod, ii, 76. 

71. As'haran Dia. Bead Tod, ii, 353,^ 

72. Chitan Chandr'. The Ashwa Bin6d is dated Samhat 1616 (1559 A.D.), 
which Sib Siggh gives as the date of the poet's birth. 

73. Prithwl RSJ, Bead Tod's BdjdatMn, i, 343. 
76. Uday Siggh. Bead and ii, 29. 

92. Bead ^^ ^:?T'T gsRa" Ghan Syam Sukal. 

105. Tsdar Mall, see addenda to No. 128, below. 

106. Bit'bal- P- 35, 1. 11 from bottom, read Bijaur. 

108. KhSn'khana. He patronised the poet Gagg (No. 119). The latter in 
one of his works praises him and his son Turab Khan. 

119. Gagga Par'sad, or Gagg. A verse of the poet Khab Ohand (No. 809) 
states that on one occasion Khan'khana (No. 108) made Gagg a present of 36 
lakhs. Khan'khana was certainly praised by Gagg in one of his works. 

127. Mvkund Siggh. Bead Tod, ii, 506. 

128. Tul'sl Daa, p. 43, last line, read Rajapur and Banda ; p. 44, I. 7, add a 
comma after Kuru Chhettr' ; p. 45, 1. 15, read Rajapur; so also elsewhere ; p. 46, 
1. 11 from bottom, read Kuifclaliya. 

As promised in the Introduction, I here give a transliteration and 
translation of the deed of arbitration in the handwriting of Tul'ai Das, dated 
Sam. 1669 (A.D. 1612). I take this opportunity of expressing my acknowledg- 
ments to my old friend and teacher Mir Axilad 'Ali, Professor of Arabic, 
Persian, and Hindustani at Trinity College, Dublin, for much assistance 
rendered in transcribing and translating the Persian and Arabic portions of the 
deed. 



ADDENDA BT COEEIGENDA. XXVI 

TEANSLITERATION. 

^Bi-JSNAKi-VAHABHO VIJATATB. 

Dvi? garaia nabhisaihdhatte dvis sthapayati najritan | Dvir dadati 

ua 1 

chartMbliyo Eamo dvir uSra bhaaate || 1 1| Tulasi janyo Dafarathabi 

dha. 2 

xamu na satya samana || Eamu tajo jehi lagi binu Kama parihare 

prana || 1 || . . .3 

Dharmo jayati uadharmas satyaih jayati nanritath | Eshama jayati na 

krodho 4 

Vi§nur jayati nasura^ || 1 1| 6 

AllIhu Aebab. 

Chft Anad Ram bin Todar bin Deo Bay wa Eanhae bin Earn Bhadar 

bin Todar mazkur 6 

dar biizur amada qarar dadand ki dar mawazi'i matruka ki tafaili i 

dar Hindwi mazkur ast j 

bilmunasafa batarazi i janibSn qarar dadem. Wa yak sad o 

pinjah (?) bigha zamin ziyada (?) qismati munasafa khud ' . .8 
dar maoza'i BhadsSm Anand Earn mazkur ba Eanhae bin Earn 

Bhadar mazbur tajwiz namuda ,9 

barl ma'ani razi gasbta i'tiraf sa^bil;^ shar'i uamudand banabari S, 10 
muhr karda shud. IX 

(Seal) ? Sadiillah bin * * • 



Qismati Anad RXu. 

Qariya Qariyi 

BhadSnl, do hissa, Lahartara, 
darobast 

Qariya Qariyi 

NSpura, tisaa i Chhitupura, bissai 

Todar lamam. Todar tamam. 



Qismati KanhIb. 12 
Qariya Qariya 

Bbadmni, sih feissa. Shiupur. 13 

darobast. 
Qariya 
Nadesar hissa i Todar tamam 14 
(?) ItUla'a'alfflh (illegible). 



Sbi Pabambswae. 

Sambat 1669 samae, knar sudi terasi, bar subh dine likhatiifa {sic) 
patra Anand 15 

Earn tatha Kanhaia. Ans bibhag purbak agS km agya dnnahu jane 
mSga 16 

Je agya bhS se pramau mana. Dunahu jane bidit taph'silu. Ans 
Todar Malu 17 

ke mah je bibhag padu hot ra ( P ha) * * * .18 



' Or (?) az Ijiissa qismati munasafa. 



ADDENDA ET OOBEiaENDA. 



XXVIX 



Ans iannd Earn. Manje BLadaini 

mah an- 
-s pleh, teti mah ans dui Inand 

Eamu. 
Tatha Lahar'tara sagare u. Tatha 

Ghhitu- 
-pura ans Todar Malu ka. Tatha 

KSpura an 
-s Todar Malu ka. Hil(a) hujati 

nasti 
Likhitaih Anand Ram, je upar 

likha, se sahi. 



Ans Eanha'i. Mauje BhadSni 
mah ans p§,ch, tehl . . 19 

mah tini ans Eauhai. Tatha 
miaje Sipura . . .20 

Tatha Nades'ri ans Todar 
Malu ka. Hil(a) . . 21 

hujati nasti . . . .22 

23 

Likhitath Eanhai, je upar 
likha se sahi . .24 



(Here follow the witnesses' signatures, ending—) 



Shahada 

bimafihi Jalal Maqbuli. 

bikhattihi. 



Shahada . . . .25 
bimafihi Tahir ibni Khwaja 26 
DaSlati Qauungoi. . . 27 



TRANSLATION. 



(Sanskrit.) Victory to the lord of ^ri Janaki. 

Two arrows caimot be shot at one time. Twice one does not support 
refugees. Twice over benefits are not given to applicants. Eama does not 
speak in two ways. 

(Old Bais'wSH.) O Tul'si, Das'rath knew no virtue equal to the trutL 
He gave up Earn for it, and without Earn he gave up his life. 

(SaasJcrit .) Virtue conquers and not vice ; truth and not falsehood. Mercy 
conquers and not anger. Visnu conquers and not the Asuras. 

(Persian.) God is great. 

Whereas Anand Eam, son of Todar, son of Deo Eay, and Eanhae, son 
of Earn Bhadar, son of Todar aforesaid, appeared before me and acknowledged 
that with their mutual consent the inheritance, viz. the villages as detailed 
in Hindwi, have been equally divided, and the said Anand Earn has given 
to the said Eanhae, son of Earn Bhadar, ISO bighns of land in village Bhadmni 
more than his own half share ; they are satisfied, and have made correct 
acknowledgment according to law. Their seals have been affixed hereto. 



Share of Anand Mam. 

Village Bhadrani, 2 shares. 
Village Lahar'tara, whole. 
Village NSpura, the whole of 

Todar's share. 
Village Chhitupura, the lesser, 

the whole of Todar's share. 



Share of Kanhae. 

Village Bhadrani, 3 shares. 
Village Shiupur, the whole. 
Village Nadesar, the whole of 

Todar's share. 
(P) I am informed of this (P) 
(illegible). 



ADDENDA ET COUEIGENDA. XXVlll 

{Old Bais'wdri.) To The Most High God. 

In the Sambat year 1669, on the 13th of the bright half of Kuar, on the 
auspicious day of the week, was this deed written by Anand Earn and 
Eanhaia. By way of partition of shares, we two formerly asked for a 
decision (translation doubtful), and the decision which haa been passed, that we 
recognise a? authoritatiTe. Both parties admit the list. The division of the 
share of Todar Mai, which has been made .... 

The rest is unintelligible, and partly illegible. 

Share of Anand Kam. — In village Bhadaiui, out of fire shares, two to 
Anand Bam. Also the whole of Lahar'tara. Also Todar Mai's share in 
Chhitupura and in NSpiira. There is no evasion or reservation. Signed 
Anand Bam. What is written above is correct. 

Share of Sanhai. — In village Bhad^ni, out of five shares, three to 
Eanhai. Also the village of Sipura ; also Todar Mall's share in Nades'ri. 
There is no evasion or reservation. Signed Kanhai'. What is written above 
is correct. 

Witnesses (to Anand Bam's signature) : Baghab Bam, son of Bam Dat ; 
Bam Seni, son of Udhab ; (U)dS Karn, son of Jagat Bay ; Jamuni Bhan, 
son of Paramanand ; Janaki Bam, son of Sri Kant ; Kawala Bam, son of 
Basudeb ; Chand Bhan, son of KesaH Das ; Pande Hariballabh, son of 
Purusotam ; Bhtwari, son of KesaSu {sic) Das ; Jadu Bam, son of Nar'hari ; 
Ajodhya, son of Lachhi ; Sabal, son of Bhikhani ; Bam Chand, son of 
Basudiw {sic) ; Pitambar Das'wadhi, son of Puran ; Bam Eai and Garib Bai (?), 
sons of Makutiri Karn (?). {Arabic) Witness to whatsoever is in this, Jalal 
- Maqbuli, by his own hand. 

Witnesses (to Kanhai's signature) : Bam S!gh, son of Uddhab ; JadSii 
Bae, son of G-ahar Bae ; Jagadis Bae, son of Mahodadhi ; Chakrapani, son of 
Siwa ; Mathura, son of Pitha ; Kasi Das, son of Basudewa (by the hand of 
Mathura) ; Kharag Bhan, son of Gosai Das ; Bam Dew, son of Bisa(m)- 
bhar ; Sri Kant Pande, son of Baj'baktra (?) ; Bithal Das, son of Harihar; 
Hira, son of Das'rath ; Lohag, son of KIshna ; Man(i) Bam, son of Sital ; 
Krishn Dat, son of Bhag'wan ; Bin'raban, son of Jm ; Dhani Bam, son of 
Madhu Bae. {Arabic) Witness to whatsoever is in this, Tahir, son of 
Khwajah DaSlati, the Qanungoi. 

In connexion vrith the above it is interesting to speculate who this 
Jddar Mall, the father of Anand Bam and grandfather of Kanhai, was. 
Can he have been Ak'bar's great Finance Minister (No. 105) ? He died in 
1589, and his son might well be alive in 1612. He was bom at Lahar'pur, 
in Atidh, and one of the villages above mentioned, Lahar'tara, has a some- 
what similar name. In India contiguous villages have often very similar 
names. 

128 — 133 Add., p. 57. Other versions of the Bama legend. 
(9) Sead Tswarl Par'sad TripathI (712). 

(10) For 686 read 702. 

(11) For 689 read 695. 



ADDENDA BT COEEIGKNDA. , XXIX 

(12) :Eor 711 read 725. 

(13) For 829a read 858. 

134. Kesab Das, The Bigyan Glta was written in Sambat 1600 (1643 A.D.) 
and was dedicated to Madhukar Shah. The Rasik-priya is dated Sambat 1648 
(1591 A.D.). 

142. Sundar Das. The Sundar Srlggar is dated Sambat 1688 (1631 A.D.). 

145. Bhakhan TripatM. From a short "poem of ll/ati Ram Tripathi (No. 146), 
the name of the Eaja of KnmaS appears to have been Udet Chand, 

146. Mati Ram TripatM. Bead Tod, ii, 481 and Fat'h Sahi, 

149. Par'tap SahK I know of two- rajas called Ratan or Rafnes in BundSI- 
khand. One is praised by Bhikharl Das (No. 344) in the preface to the Prem 
Ratnakar, which was written in 1685 A.D. This may possibly be the father of 
Par'tap Sahi. The other succeeded Bikram Sah'i (No. 514) as Eaja of Ohar'khart 
w. 1829 A.D. He was born 1816 A.D. and died 1860. He is referred to in 
Nos. 619—622 and 524. Bikram S|hi was bom 1785 and died 1828 A.D. ; and 
if Par'tap Sahi was the son of this Bafnes, he would probably be Bikram Sahi's 
grandson, but could not have been his contemporary, for his father was only 
twelve years old at the latter's death. Yet, again, I hear from Char'khari 
(though on what authority I cannot ascertain) that a Par'tap Sahi did live in 
Char'khan in Bikram Sahi's reign, Eegarding the Bhakha Bhukhan, which is 
usually considered as written at the end of the eighteenth century, I find 
a Bombay edition of the work identifying Jaswant Siggh, its author, with 
Jas'wantSirj^h (1638—1681) of MSr'war. This would tally with the date given 
in the body of the work ; but on the whole I am inclined to reject Sib Siggh's 
statement that this poet attended Ohhattr' Sal's court, and would place him as 
flourishing about the year 1830 A.J)., after No. 518. His relationship to 
the Eat'nes of No. 519 must remain an open point. There was also a poet called 
Ratan. See No. 155. 

152. Sib Nnih. Read Tod's Bajdsthan, ii, 481. 

159. Kalidaa TribSdi. In his Badhu-binod, which he dates Sambat 1749 
(1692 A.D.), he mentions that Jogajlt Siggh's father was Britti Siggh. 

160. Sukh Deb lUisar. Bead Ar'j'un Singh and Britt Bichar, 
164. Sundar Das. Bead Sundar Sagkhya. 

171. Najir. Beaa Nazjr, not Napr, throughout. 
173. Jhakur. Bead Gosai. 
177. Beadlswar. 

195. Ajit Siggh. For 91m read 89re. 

196. Bihari Lai ChcutbS. P. 76, I. 4, for 364 read 356. Also read Za'Ifaqar. 
199. Rafnes. See No. 149, Add. Of, No. 155. 

213. Chandr'. Bead Sul'tan. 

226. Bihari Das. Bead^frCi. 

251. Bead Par'bin. 

826. Suratl H/liaar. The Alagkar Mala is dated Sambat 1766 (1709 A.D.). 

331. Bhoj Misar. Bead SfiggUr. , 

344. Bhikharl Das. Bead Chhandarnab, The Prim Ratnakar is dated 
Sambat 1742 (1685 A.D.) and the ChhandUrnab Sambat 1799 (1742 A.D.). In the 
former work he praises a Eaja Rat'nSs, Cf. No. 619. See also No. 149, Add. 



V ADDENDA ET COBEiaENDA. XXX 

346. Karon. His SUhitya Chandrika is dated Samhat 1794 (1737 A.D.), 
which the Sib Siggh Satoj gives as the date of his birth. With regard to 
Hir'dS Sahi, see'slso No. 603. 

349. Gum&n JJ Misar. Bead Naiaadha. The Kali Nidhi is dated Samhat 
1805 (1843 A.D.). The work is rather a translation than a commentary. 

361. PrSm Nith. Bead KhM. 

365. Hari Nith. The Ala^kir Dar'pan is dated Samhat 1826 (1796 A.D.), 
which Sib Siggh gives as the date of the poet's birth. 

357. Sambhu Nath. The Rim Bilis is dated Sambat 1798 (1741 A.D.). 

361. KSsab. Bead Niriyan. 

664. HatM. The date of his birth (1830 A.D.) given by Sib Siggh is 
certainly wrong, for the Ridhi Satak is dated Samlat 1847 11790 A.D.). 



THE MODEM YEENACULAR LITEEATURE 



HINDUSTAN. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE BAEDIC PEEIOD. [700—1300 A.D.] 



1. "^SJ SJff^, the poet Pusya, of UJain. Fl. 713 A.D. 

This is the earliest vernacular poet of whom I have found any 
mention in Native authors. The Sib Siygh Saroj states that he 
flourished in the year 713, and that he is the " root of the vernacular" 
bhikha kl jar. It is not clear from this account whether his name 
was Pusya, Puspa, or Punda, It states categorically that he wrote 
both in Sanskrit and in the vernacular, and that he is mentioned 
by Col. Tod in his Bajasthan. If by vernacular we are to under- 
stand a stage of language later than that of the Prakrits, this seems 
a most improbable statement ; nor can I find that it is borne out by 
Tod. The only allusion apparently bearing on this point in the 
Rajasthan is a reference (i, 229; Calcutta edition, i, 246) to a Pusya, 
the author of an inscription (translated i, 799). I can find no 
mention in Tod regarding the language in which he wrote. 

2. W*IH T^"^! Khuman Siggh alias Khuman Raut Guh'Idut, 
king of CfiitSur, in Mewar. FL 830 A.D.i 

In his honour was written the Khuman Rdy'sa- This is the most 
ancient poetic chronicle of MewSr, and was written in the ninth 



' See Tod's Bdjasthdn, i, 240 ; Calo. ed., i, 258. 



2 THE MODEEK LITEEAET HISTOET OP HINDtfSTlN. [§ 3. 

century.^ It gives a history of Khuman Raut and of his family. It 
was recast during the reign of Par'tap Sitjgh (fl. 1575), and, as we 
now have it, carries the narrative down to the wars of that priace 
with AFbar, devoting a great portion to the siege of Ohitaur by 
Alau'd-din Khilji in the thirteenth century.^ We may therefore 
presume that the copies now extant are in a dialect of Mewar not later 
than the end of the sixteenth century. 

3. ^T'C ^fff^i the poet and bard KSdar. Fl. 1150 A.D. 

Mentioned in the Sih Siygh SaroJ as attending the court of 
Alau'd-din Ghori. He therefore flourished about 1150 A.D., and if any 
of his works can be found, they wiU. probably be the oldest Bpecimens 
of vernacular Kterature obtainable. I have never seen any of his 
writings, and I fear they are lost, unless they have been preserved 
in the Tod manuscripts. He is possibly mentioned by Tod, but 
I have not been able to find his name. 



4. ^TTT TTT^T king Kumar Pal, of An'hal. Fl- 1150 A.D. 
Towards the end of the same century an anonymous poet of 

R&J'putdnd wrote a bardic chronicle, entitled the Kumar Pal Charitra,^ 
detailing the Hne of descent of the Buddhist* Eaja Kumar Pal, of 
An'hal, from Brahma downwards. The manuscript exists in the Tod 
collection, being No. 31 in the Eoyal Asia;tio Society's Hst. 

We now come to the time of PHhdurd or PrithujI Raj, the Chauhan, 
of Diin, who was born 1159 A.D. and died 1193 A.D; He was not 
only a valiant hero,^ but was a great patron of literature. If we may 
believe Sib Singh^ the works of two at kast of the ba,rds who attended 
his court have come down to us. These were Nos. 5 and 6. 

5. '^•I'Slo "^"^1 Ananya Dds, of Chaked'wd, district Goda^ 
B. 1U8 A.D. 

The only authority for this poet is the Sib Siygh Saroj, which 
states that he was author of a work called Andnya Jog, from which 

' Tod, ii, 757 ; Calo. ed., ii, 814. 

= Tod, i, 214; ii, 767 ; Calc. ed., i, 231 ; ii, 814. 

' Tod, i, 81, 80a. 241n, 256 ; ii, 242n,;Cale. ed., i, 86, 87n, 259n, 275 ; ii, 266. 

* See Tod, i, 98 ; Calc. ed., i, 106. 

» For a history of his life and times, see Tod, i, 95, 256 ; Calc. ed., 102, 275. 



§ 6,] THB BAEDIC PERIOD. [700— 130O A.D.J 3 

it gives an extract. I suspect that he was really a contemporary of 
another Prithwl Raj (of BibanSr), who lived in the sixteenth century 
(Tod, i, 343 and ff. ; ii, 186 ; Calc. ed., i, 363 and ff . ; ii, 203) . See No. 73. 

6. ^*?^» 'RT^? the poet and bard Chandr' or Chand Bar'daT. 
FL 1191 A.D. 

Eag., ? Sun. He belonged to the family of an ancient bard named 
Bisal Deb, the Chauhan (cf. Tod, ii, 447 and ff. ; Calo. ed., ii, 492 and ff .), 
of Rccn'thambhOr, and, according to the account of his descendant, the 
poet Sar Das, belonged to the Jagat clan.^ He came to Prithwl Raj's 
court and was appointed his minister and poet-laureate (kavigvara). His 
poetical works were collected by Amur Sirjgh (cf. No. 191), of Mewar,^ 
in the early part of the seventeenth century. They were not improbably 
recast and modernised in parts at the same time, which has given 
rise to a theory^ that the whole is d. modern forgery. His principal 
work is the famous Prithi Raj Ray'sa (Rag.), or life of his patron. 
According to Tod* it is a universal history of the period in which 
he wrote, and is in 69 books, comprising 100,000 stanzas, of which Tod 
has translated 30,000 — certainly more than any other European has 
succeeded in doiug. Chand and Prithm Raj were both killed in battle 
fighting against the Muhammadans in the year 1193. As already 
mentioned, one of his descendants was the poet SUr Das, and another was 
the poet Sararjg Dhar (No. 8), who is said to have written the Hammir 
Ray'sa and the Hammir Kdbya.^ A portion of the text of the PrithJ 
Raj Ray'sa has been edited by Hr. Beames, and another portion edited 
and translated by Dr. Hoernle. The excessively difficult character of 
the task has prevented both scholars from making much progress. 
Pandit Mohan Lai Visnu Lai Pdndia has just commenced editing a 
critical edition of the whole text, of which the first two fasciculi have 
been published (Medical Hall Press, Banaras, 1887). The Mahobd 

' See the account of Sur Das's genealogy given in No. 37. 

2 Eeigned 1597—1621. See Tod, i, xiii (In trod.) j 350 andfE. ; Calc. ed., i, xii ; 
371 and S. 

' See J. A. S. B., 1886, p. 5, " On the antiquity, authenticity, and genuineness 
of Chand' Bar' dot's epic the PrithirOj RSlsou," by Kaviraj SySimal Das, in which 
our poet is attacked, and " The Defence of PritfiiraJ Rasa of Chanda Bar'dS.'i" 
by Pandit Mnhan Lai Visnu Lai Pandia (Banaras, Medical Hall Press, 1887), 
which is a reply to the former paper. 

4 Tod, i, 2B4; Calc. ed., i, 273.^ 

* Tod, ii, 4B2n ; Calc. ed., ii, 497n. 



4 THE MODBBN LITEEABY HISTOET OF HINDOSTIN. [§ 7. 

Khand of the poemi which, however, is probably spurious, or at 
least not by Chand, has been more than once translated iato Hindi. * 
It deals with the famous heroes AIha and Odan (or ^Iha and RQdal, 
according to the tradition of Eastern Hindustan), and the trans- 
lation with which I am best acquainted (without, however, being 
in a position to vouch for its accuracy) is that by Jhakur Das, of 
Fatihgarh, under the name of the Xlkhand, This is not the same as 
the ^Iha Khand which will be found described under the head of 
the poet Jag'nih (No. 7), though it deals with the same heroes. 
According to Garcin de Tassy (Histoire, etc., i, 138), a Eussian savant, 
Robert Lenz by name, translated a portion of Chand's poem, which he 
intended to have published in 1836 on his return to St. Petersburg, 
but the premature death of this scholar deprived orientalists of this 
interesting work. CoL Tod priated a translation of an Episode 
under the title of 'The Vow of Sanfogta'^ ip. the 25th volume of 
the Asiatic Journal, pp. 101—112, 197—211, 273—286. 

My oVn studies of this poet's work have inspired me with a great 
admiration for its poetic beauty, but I doubt if any one not perfectly 
master of the various Raj'putana dialects could ever read it with 
pleasure. It is, however, of the greatest value to the student of 
philology, for it is at present the only stepping stone available to 
European explorers in the chasm between the latest Prakrit and the 
earliest Gaudian authors. Though we may not possess the actual text 
of Chand, we have certainly in his writings some of the oldest known ' 
specimens of Gaudian literature, abounding in pure Apabhramca 
QSSSrasenl Prakrit forms. 

According to Garcin de Tassy (I.e.), we owe to this poet another 
work, entitled Jai Chandra Pmkas, or history of Jai Chand, which is 
written in the same dialect as the Ray'sa, and is quoted by Ward. 



7. ol<|<»r*l^i the bard Jag'nih or Jag'ndyak, oi Mahoba,ia. 
Bundsl'khand. Fl. 1191 A.D. 

Contemporaly with Chand was the bard Jag'nih. I am not certain 
that I have ever seen any of this poet's works. He attended the court 
of Par'mat {Paramardi), of Mahobd, in Bundel'khand, and chronicled 
the wars of that prince with Prithwi Raj. There is a not impossible 

' For an English translation of an episode in the Mahoba Ehand, see Tod, 
614 and ff. ; Calo. ed., i, 648 and fE. 

s Cf. Tod, i, 633 and fE. ; Calc. ed., i, 657 and ff. 



§ 8.] THB BARDIC PEEIOD. [700—1800 A.D.] _ 5 

tradition that the ^Iha Khand, of which we possess many versions, and 
which has sometimes been described as a spurious canto of Ghand's epic, 
was originally written by this poet. The AIha Khand is, so far as 
I am aware, only current in oral versions sung all over Hindustan by 
professional singers. As might be expected, these versions differ 
considerably in language, and each is modernised to suit the dialect 
of the reciter. For a fuU account of the ^Iha Khand, see Indian 
Antiquary, vol. xiv, pp. 209, 255. For an account of Alha's share in 
the war between Prithwl Eaj and Par'mal, see Report of the Arch. 
Sur. Ind., vii, pp. 13 — 20. 

The Mahobd Khand has already been mentioned under the head of 

Chand (No. 6). It and other Western recensions of the poem give the 

names of the heroes as ^Iha and Udat or Udan, the latter being short 

for Uday Siggh ; but the Eastern recensions give the names as ^Ihd and 

Rudal. Two versions of the Western recension have been printed — one 

edited by Chaiudh'rl Ghdsl Ram, of Bhatipuid, and the other, under 

the supervision of Sir C. (then Mr.) Elliott, by Jhakur Das, of 

Fatihgarh, already mentioned. The latter edition was, I believe, 

taken down^ by him as recited by three illiterate professional bards 

of Kanauj, being respectively by caste a JosI, a Tell, and a Brahman, 

, and pieced together with additions of his own and some extracts or 

adaptations from different manuscripts that he borrowed. It is thus 

rather a heterogeneous composition. Portions of this recension have 

been translated into English ballad metre by Mr. Wateriield in 

vols. Ixi, Ixii, and Ixiii of the Calcutta Review under the title of 

" The Nine- Lakh Chain, or the Mdro feud." The Eastern recension only 

exists in the mouths of itinerant singers, and is nearly always couched 

in the Bhoj'puri dialect of Biharl. According to the tradition of 

Eastern Hindustan, the poem was originally written by Jag'nik in 

the Bimdel'khandi dialect. Mr. Vincent Smith has presented me with 

a number of short poems in that dialect, many of which appear to be 

fragments of a larger work In them the second hero is called Udal. 

8. ^TKW ^T «Rf^, the poet and bard Sdrar)g Dhar, of 
Ran'thambhor. FL 1363 A.D. 

We have now a gap of a century and a half, and in the year 1363 
find flourishing the Sdrar)g Dhar already mentioned as a descendant of 
Chand, According to Tod, he attended the court of the heroic Raja 

' 1 am indebted to Mr. Growse for this information. 



6 THB MODERN LITEEAEY HI8T0BT OF HINDtJSTlN. [§ 9, 

Hammir Deb (Fl. 1300 A.D.), the Ghauhan, of Ran'thamhhor, who 
belonged to the family of Blsal Deb, the ancestor of Chand. Hammlr's 
dogged valour and heroic death at the hands of Alau'd-din Khiljl have 
given rise to innumerable proverbs, and have been celebrated in 
poetical works in many languages of India. None, however, is so 
popular as Sararjg Dhar's two works known as the Hammir Ray'sa 
and the Hammir Kabya. ^ M. Earth has suggested to me that this 
poet is the same as the Carggadhara, author of the Sanskrit anthology 
entitled the garrjgadfiara Paddhati,' described by Mr. FitzEdward 
HaU in the preface to his edition of the Vasavadatta, and by Prof. 
Aufrecht in ZDMG-., xxvii, 2. A reference to Pandit Mohan Lai 
Visnu Lai Pandid has confirmed the accuracy of this suggestion, and 
I am indebted to this gentleman for quotations showing that it was 
not Sararjg Dhar or Gdrggadhara, but his grandfather Raghu Ndth, 
who was spiritual guide to Hammir. The Gdrggadhara Paddhati was 
written in 1363 A.D. 

I have only seen detached extracts from this poet's works, and 
hence am unable to say whether the other two poems were certainly by 
him or not. What gives rise to doubt is the existence [in the J. A. . 
S. B., voL xlviii (1879), p. 186] of a translation of a Hammir Rasa, or 
"History of Hammir, Priuce of Ran'thambhor," by Babu Brajandtha 
Bandhopadhydya, of Jaipur. According to the Introduction of this 
work, the original was written by one Jodh^ Raj, of Nim'rdnd, in 
Al'war. He attended the court of a Ghauhan prince, named Ghandr' 
BhdHi a descendant of PrithwT Raj, and was by birth a Gaur 
Brahman, born at Bijdwar, There is a copy of the Garggadhara (or 
Sararjg Dhar) Paddhati in the Tod collection of manuscripts (No. 32) 
in the Library of the Royal Asiatic Society. I have only' had an 
opportunity of a very cursory examination of the work, which is 299 
foL long. Prof. Peterson has published an edition of it ia Bombay. 
No. 42 in the same collection is entitled the Hammlra Gharitra, 
but I am unable to say if it is the same as any of the works above 
mentioned. 

9. WT^ TT^i the poet Jodh Rdj, of Nim'rdnd in Al'war. FL 
1363 i^P) A.D. See No. 8 above. 

' Tod, ii, 453ii, 472ii ; Calc. ed", ii, 497n, 517n. 

^ Ttere was a Jodh Kabi (No. 118) who attended the.court of the Emperor 
Ak'bar, who may be the same as this author. 



§ 13.J THE EELIGIOTJS EEVIVAL OF THE FIFTEENTH CBNTDBT. 

CHAPTER II. 

THE EELIGIOUS EEVIVAL OF THE FIFTEENTH CENTUEY. 



10. TTTT*n^ ^T^T? the master Ramanand. Fl. c. 1400 
A.D. 

Eag. We now leave the era of the bards, and, emerging from the 
mists of antiquity, come upon a great revival of Literature coincident 
with the rise of the Vaishnava religion, at the commencement of the 
fifteenth century. The first name we meet is that of Ramanand 
(fl. cir. 1400 A.D.). He was much more of a religious reformer (see 
Wilson, Religious Sects of the Hindus, i, 47) than an author, but I 
have collected hymns written, or purportirig to have been written, by 
him,' which had travelled ia the people's mouths as far east as Mithila. 



11. T^TfT*^, Bhawanand. FL c. 1400 A.D. 

One oi Ramanand' s immediate disciples (Wibon, Religious Sects 
of the Hindus, i, 56). He is the reputed author of an explanation 
in Hiudl of the Vedanta system of philosophy in fourteen chapters, 
entitled Amrit Dhar. See Mack. Cat. ii, 108, quoted by Garcin de 
Tassy, i, 140. 

12. ^"T ^f^-) the poet Sen, oiBandho. Fl. c 1400 A.D. 
Haj. One of Rdmanand's immediate disciples, a barber by caste. 

Poems by him are also in the Sikh Granth. He and his descendants 
were for some time the family gurus of the Rajas of Bandho (Rlwa), 
See Wilson, Religious Sects of the Hindus, i, 118, for a legend 
concerning him. 

13. ^^^ ^ItJo Kabir Das, the Jolahd (weaver) of Bandras. 
Fl. c. 1400 A.D. 

Haj., Rag. He was the most famous of Rdmanand's disciples. 
His principal works are included in the weU-known Sabddbali, Ramai- 
nis, Sdkhis, and the Suhh Nidhdn, -which are everywhere known and 
quoted at the present day. According to tradition, he was the son of 



8 THB MODBEN LITEBABT HI8T0EY OF HINDffSTlN. [§ 13. 

a virgin Brahman widow. He was exposed by her, and was found 
on a lotus in Lahar Talaa, a pond near Banaraa, by the wife of 
a Jolaha or Musalman weaver named Nlma, who with her husband 
Nan was there in attendance on a wedding procession. He is said 
to have Uved 300 years, or from 1149 to 1449 A.D., and in fact 
he flourished about the beginning of the fifteenth century.^ 

A complete list of a voluminous mass of writings attributed to Kabir, 
as preserved in the collection called the Khas Granth, will be found 
in "Wilson, Religious Sects of the Sindus, i, 76, and is here reproduced 
for ready reference. Cf, also Garcin de Tassy (Histoire, etc. i, 274). 

(1) Suhh Nidhan. 

(2) Gorahh Nath kl Goshthh 

(3) Kabir Panji. 

(4) Balakh hi Ramainl. 

(5) Ramanand kl GoshthT. 

(6) ^nand Ram Sagar. 

(7) Sabddbali, containing 1,000 sabdas, or short doctrinal 

expositions. 

(8) Maggal, 100 short poems, amongst which is the account of 

Kab'ir's discovery given as above. 

- (9) Basant, 100 hymns in that, JBagr. 

(10) Holi, 200 of the songs called Soli. 

(11) Rehh'tas, 100 odes. 

(12) JhQl'nas, 500 odes in a different style. 

(13) Khas'rd, 500 odes in a different style. 

(14) Hindols, 12 ditto. The subject of aU these odes or hymns 

is always moral or religious. 

(15) Bdrah Masa, the 12 months from a religious point of view, 

agreeably to Kabir's system. 

(16) Chahohars, 22. 

(17) Chmtisds, 2 ; the 34 letters of the Nagarl alphabet, with 

their religious signification. 

(18) Alifnamah, the Persian alphabet in the same manner. 

(19) RCLmairiis, short doctrinal or argumentative poems. 

(20) Sdkhls, 5,000. These may be considered as texts, consisting 

of one stanza each. 

(21) The Bijak (Rag ) (the greater and the lesser), in 654 sections. 
There is also a variety of stanzas, called Sgams,_ Banls, etc., 

composing a very formidable course of study to those who wish to go 
deep into the doctrine of this school. 

' For further' particulars see Wilson, Beligious Sects of the Hindus, i, 73. 



§17.] 



THE EBLIGIOTJS EEVIVAL OF THE IIITEBNTH CENTUET. 



14. T^ ^T^, Bhago Das. FL 1420 A.D. 

One of Kabir's immediate disciples, and author or compiler of tke 
shorter Bljak. See Wilson, Religious Sects of the Eindus, i, 79 ; 
Garcia de Tassy, i, 118, 

15. "^ 'rt^M^ Smt Gopal. FL 1420 A.D. 

Another of Kabir's immediate disciples, and author of the Sukh 
Nidhan. See Wilson as above, page 90. 

16. eRTT^ "^ifk-i the poet Kamal, of Banaras, FL 1450 
A.D. 

Haj., Rag. He was Kabir's son. He spent his time making 
couplets in refutation of his father's sayings. Hence the proverb ^;tT 
«P^ «h'4^<. ^ 1^ ^3^TWT "^ **il<!f, — ^An unlucky family was Kabir's, in 
which the son Kama! was bom. See Fallon's Hd. By. s.v. Upafna, 
page 13. 

17. f^^mf?? ^T^T-) Bidyapati Thakur, of Bisdp'i, in 
Dar'bhaggd district. FL 1400 A.D. 

Rag. Retracing our steps, and leaving for a time the Central 
Hindustan, made famous by Ramanand and Kablr, we find flourishing 
in the year 1400 one of the most famous of the Vaishnava poets of 
Eastern India. Bidyapati Jhdhur was founder of the school of master- 
singers, which in after years spread over the whole of Ban gal, and his 
name is to the present d&,y a household word from the Kar'm'nasa to 
Calcutta. He has been translated into and imitated in most of the 
dialects faUing between these limits. Little is known of his life. 
He was the son of Gan'pat'l Jhakur, who was the son of Jai Datt' 
Thdkur. The founder of the family was Visnu Carman, who lived 
seven generations before Bidyapati in the village of Bisapi, the 
modem Bis'phh This village was given to the poet as a rentfree gift 
by king Sib Siggfi (then heir apparent) of Sugdond in the year 1400 
A.D. The deed of endowment is still extant. Bidyapati was author 
of many Sanskrit works, the principal of which are the well-known 
Purusa ParJksa, the Durgdbhakti Tararjginl, the Ddnaudkyduali, the 
Viudda Sara, and the Gayd Pattana ; but his chief glory consists 
in his matchless sonnets {pada ) in the Maithill dialect dealing 



10 THE MODERN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDtfSTAN. [§ 17. 

allegorically with the relations of the soul to God under the form of the 
love which Eadha bore to Krish'n. These were adopted and recited 
enthusiastically by the celebrated Hindu reformer Ghaitanya, who 
flourished at the beginning of the sixteenth century (b. 1484 A.D.), 
and, through him, became the house-poetry of the Lower Provinces. 
Numbers of imitators sprung up, many of whom wrote in Bidyapati's 
name, so that it is now difficult to separate the genuine from the 
imitations, especially as the former have been altered in the course of 
ages to suit the Bangali idiom and metre. Bidyapati was a contem- 
porary of the Bangali poet Chandl Das, and of Umapati and Jai Deb, 
and was, we know, on terms of intimate friendship with the first. He 
was, we have seen, a famous poet in A.D. 1400, and a copy of the 
Bhagauata Purana in his handwriting, dated L.S. 349 (A.D. 1456), 
stiU exists, so that he lived to a good old age. These are the only 
two certain dates we have in his life. The following dates depend 
upon the dates mentioned in Ajodhya Par'sad's Gulzdr-Bi'har as 
those of the accessions of the various kings. Ajodhyd Par'sad's 
dates are as follows : — King Deua Simha {Deb Siggh) came to the 
throne A.D. 1385 ; Giva Simha {SibSiggh) 1446; two queens reigned 
1449—1470; Nara Simha Deua {Nar Siggh Deb) 1470; Dhlra Simha 
{Dhlr Siggh) 1471. 

Now the Purusa Parllisa was according to its colophon written 
during the lifetime of Deb Siggh, i.e. before 1446, and the Durga- 
bhaliti Taragginl was written during the reign of IV ar Siggh Deb, ie. 
in the year 1470. We therefore can arrange the dates which we 
have of Bidydpati Jhdiiur's life as follows, giving those which depend 
upon Ajodhyd Par'sdd in italics : — 

A.D. 
Granted the village of Bisapi, and therefore 
already a learned man ... ... 1400 

Wrote Purusa Pari/isahei6ve ... ... 1^^6 

Wrote the numerous songs dedicated to Sib 
Siggh heiore ... ... ... Ii.i9 

Gapiei the Bhdgauata Purdna ... ... 1456 

Wrote Durgdbhaliti Taragginl ... ... 1^70 

Assuming the above dates to be correct, he must have been at least 
ninety years old when he completed his last work Raja Sib Siggh, 
Bidyapati's great patron, was also named Rap Ndrdyan, which seems 
to have been a general title of many members of the family. He had 
several wives, of whom the poet has immortalised Lakhimd Tha/iurdih, 



§ 18.] THE EELIGIOTJS EEVIVAL OF THE FIFTEENTH CBNTTJET. 11 

Pran'batl, and Msd'batl. There is a tradition that the emperor Ah'bar^ 
summoned Sib Sirjgh to Dill'i for some offence, and that Bidyapatl 
obtained his patron's release by an exhibition of clairvoyancOi The 
emperor locked him up ia a wooden box and sent a number of cour- 
tezans of the town .to bathe ia the river. When aU was over he released 
him and asked him to describe what had occurred, when Bidyapatl 
immediately recited impromptu one of the most charming of his 
sonnets which has come down to us, describing a beautiful girl at her 
bath. Astonished at his power, the emperor granted his petition to 
release kiug Sib Singh. Another legend is that the poet, feeling his 
end approaching, determined to die on the banks of the holy Ganges. 
On the way he remembered that the stream was the child of the faithful, 
and summoned it to himself. The obedient flood immediately divided 
itself into three streams, and spread its waves up to the very spot where 
Bidyapatl was sitting. Joyfully gazing on its sacred waters, he laid 
himself down and died. A Qiva liyga sprang up where his funeral pyre 
had been, and it and the marks of the river are shown there to the present 
day._ It is close to the town of Bazit'pur, in the Darbhanga 
district. Such is the fitting legend of the passing away of the great 
old master-singer. 

Bidyapati's influence on the history of the literature of Eastern 
Hindustan has been immense. He was a perfect master of the art of 
writing those religious love-sonnets which have since become in a much 
degraded form the substance of the Vaishnava bibles. Subsequent 
authors have never done anything but, longo intervallo, imitate him. 
But while the founder of the school never dealt with any subject 
without adorning it with some truly poetical conceit, his imitators have 
too often turned his quaintness into obscurity, and his passionate 
love-songs into the Kterature of the brothel. 

18. ^1TTXTf?T, Umapati. M. 1400 A.D. He was one of the 
great poets of Mithila, and according to tradition he attended the 
court of king Sib Sirjgh and was a contemporary of Bidyapatl. See 
J". A. S. B., vol liii, page 77. Cf. ZDMG, vol. xl, page 143, where 
Professor Aufreoht fixes the date of an Umapati, whom Maithil 
tradition claims as being the same as the one mentioned, as in the 
first half of the eleventh century. 

' It is hardly necessary to point out that the real hero of this story (if it is 
to be believed) cannot hare been Ak'bar, who lived in the latter half of the 
sixteenth century. 

■it 



12 



THE MODBEN LITEEAET HI8T0ET OF HIHDCSTIN. [§ 19. 



19. '^^^9 Jaideb. Fl. 1400 A.D. 

A Maithil poet, said to be distinct from JayadSua, author of the 
Gita Gouinda. He attended the court of Sib Siggh, of Sugaona, and 
was a contemporary of Bidydpatl. See J. A. S. B., vol. liii, page 88. 

20. ^Ihcr WT^-) Mlra Bal, the MarVarl. Fl. 1420 A.D. 
Rag. Leaviag Bidtjapati arid his successors, we may now turn to 

the extreme west of Hindustan, where, in Mewar, Mlra Bal, the one 
great poetess of Northern India, was pouring forth her passionate 
hymns to Krish'n Ran'cfihor. This remarkable woman, who flourished 
in the year 1420 A.D., was the daughter of Raja Ratiya Rana,\ the 
Rathaur, of Mer'td, and was married in Sambat 1470 (A.D. 1413) 
to Raja Kumbh'karan (No. 21), son of Mohal Deb, of Chitmr.^ Her 
husband was kiUed in Sambat 1534 (A.D. 1469) by his son Udd Rdna. 
Her great work is the Rag Gobind, and she also wrote a much-admired 
commentary on the Gita Govinda of Jayadeua. She was devoted to 
that form of the god Krish'n known as Ran'cfihor, and the tradition 
is that she worshipped his image with such fervour that it came to 
life, and the god, descending from his shrine, embraced her, crying 
'Welcome Mlra." On hearing these words, overcome with rapture, 
she died ia his arms. 'According to Wilson' she was much persecuted 
by her husband's family on , account of her religious principles. 
She became the patroness of vagrant Vaashnavas, and visited in 
pilgrimage Brinddban and Dwdrikd. Previous to leaving the latter 
place she visited the temple of her tutelary deity to take leave of him, 
when on the completion of her adoration the linage opened, and Mlra 
leaping into the fissure it closed and she finally disappeared. Some 
idea of the popularity of her writings may be gained from the fact 
that I have collected from the mouths of the people of Mitlula songs 
purporting to be by her.* 



21. ^i'W'^TTi Kumbh'karan, king of Chitaur {Mswar), 
husband of Mlrd Bdl. BL 1419 A.D. 

' According to Tod, ii, 23 (Calo. ed. ii, 34) her father's uame was 
Dudoh (?). 

' According to Wilson, Udaipur, 

' Seligious Sects of the Hindus, p. 137. 

* Cf. Tod, i, 289 ; ii, 760 ; Calo. ed. i, 309 ; ii, 818. 



§24.J 



ADDENDA TO CHAFTEB II. 



13 



? Eag. He came to the throne about 1400 A.D., and was . killed 
by his son Uda in the year 1469 A.D. According to Tod (i, 289 ; 
Calc. ed. i, 308,) he was a skilled poet, and wrote a commentary to the 
Gltd Gouinda. He is said to have been originally instructed in poetry 
by his wife, the famous MM Bai (No. 20). 



22. •TT'^efj', fJanak the Bedikhatri, of TU'warl (see Wilson, 
Essays, ii, 123) in the Panjab. B. 1469 A.D. ; d. 1539 A.D. 

Eag. The celebrated founder of the Nanak-panthi sect, and part 
author of the Granth (Rag.) (see No. 169). The Granth (see Wilson, 
I. 0.) is said by Sib Siggh to contain poems by (1) Ndnak, (2) 
Arjgad, (3) Amar Deis, (4) Ram Das, (5) Hart Ram Das, (6) Teg 
Bahadur, (7) Gobind Siggh, (8) Kabir Das, (9) Triloohan Das, (10) 
Dhana Bhagat, (11) Ray Das, (12) Sen, (13) Shehh FarTd, (14) Mm 
Bai, (15) Nam Deb (Eag.), (16) Balibhadr". (Of. Wilson, Religious 
Sects of the Hindus, i, 274, for a different list.) 

The first seven of these names are the names of seven of the ten 
gurus or apostles of the religion. The other three apostles were, (8) 
Had Gobind, (9) Hari Ray, (10) Hari Kisfiun. Some idea of Nanak's 
popularity may be gathered from the fact that I have collected 
unwritten songs purporting to be by him in the heart of MithHai. 
(See also Garcin de Tassy, i, 385.) 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER II. 



23. ^TT ^TO, Charan Das, the 
Srahman of Pandit'pur, district Faiz- 
abad. B. 1480 AJ). 

Eag. The author of a work entitled 
the GySin'swg.r6day. 



24. ^5jt^ MM^T, AjabSs, the 
old poet of that name. B. 1313 A.I>. 

Sun, He attended the court of king 
Blr Bhan Siggh (1540—1554), of 
Bdndho {Riwa)^ and seems to have 
resided as a professional bard in that 
country. Cf. No. 630. 



' The Sih Siygh Saroj gives Jogh'pur, which is apparently a misprint 
for Jodh'pur ; but I can find no reference to a prince of Jodh'pur named Bir 
Ehan. Ajabes in one of his poems states that this prince protected Ak'bar when 
a child. Bir Bhan was; therefore, the prince of that name ia Bandho {R'lwa), 
with whom Humayun took refuge. See art. Eewah in Imperial Gazetteer of 
India, where the dates are given incorrectly, and Bep. Arch, Stir, Ind. xvii, 101, 
and xxi, 109. Cf. Nos. 113 and 530. 



14 



THE MODERN IITEEAEY HISTOET OP HINDtfSTiN. 



[J 25. 



25. T^T VK fW^i Gada Dhar 
Misar,. of BraJ, B. 15^5 A.D. 

Eag. 

26. THJW ^Tfl',' /i;arfAa6 Das, 
the Brahman. B. 1523. 

Eag. He was father of Bhag'wat 
Ramit (No. 61). He is probably the 
same as a Madhs Das, the author of a 
song in praise of the Ammonite, 
which I collected in Mithila. 

27. ■^TT ^fV, the poet Gopa. 
B. 1533 A.D. He wrote the Ram 
Bhakhan and the Alagkar Chandrika. 



28. i<.r*l«T ^rfsr, the poet /Vam- 
m/j/a alias Narami. of Junagarh, in 
(?H/Vat B. i553 A.D. 

Eag. 

29. JTTT^T^ ^TOj Bhag'wan' Das, 
of Mathura. B. i555 A.D. 

Eag. 

30. ^^ ^^ ^f^, the poet 
Motl Lai, of BSs;>a/. B. 1533. 

Eag. He translated the Ganeoa 
Puraifa into the rernacular. 



§31.] THE EOMiNTIC POETEY OF MALIK MUHAMMAD. [1540 A. D.] 15 

CHAPTER III. 

THE EOMANTIC POETRY OF MALIK MUHAMMAD. [1640 A.D.] 



31. 3rf%^ ^¥W^ «n^^, Malib Muhammad,, of 
Jayas, in Judh. FL 1540 AD. 

He flourished under Sher Shah in tlie year 1540 A.D. He waa 
the author of the Padmdwat (Rag.), which is, I beHeve, the first poem 
and almost the only one written in a Gaudian vernacular on an original 
subject. I do not know a work more deserving of hard study than 
the Padmawat. It certainly requires it, for scarcely a hne is intelligible 
to the ordinary scholar, it being couched in the veriest language of 
the people. But it is well worth any amount of trouble, both for its 
originality and for its poetical beauty. 

Malik Muhammad was a Musahnan faglr of great sanctity. The 
raja of Amethi, who believed that he owed a son and his general pros- 
perity to the saint, was one of his principal deyotees. When the poet 
died he was buried at the gate of the raja's fort at Amethi, where his 
tomb is stiU worshipped. He teUs us hirhseH, in the introduction to 
his poem, that he was a disciple of Sayyad Ashraf Jahan'glr and of 
Shekh Bur'hdn,^ and that he subsequently studied under Hiadu 
pandits. He is said not to have been a man of great learning, but 
was famed for his wisdom, and for the fact that he. wrote for the people 
in the people's tongue. According to the text of the Banaras edition 
of the Padmdwat, which is very incorrect,^ the poet commenced to 
wriie it ia A.H. 927 (A.D. 1520) ; but this is probably a misreadiag, 
for he says ia the preface that Sher Shah of the Sur dynasty, who 

' Shekh. Bur'han resided at Kal'pi, in Bundel'khand, and is said to have died 
at 100 years of age in A.H. 970, or A.D. 1562-63. See Bep. Arch. Sm: Ind. 
xxi, 131. 

" My friend Pandit Chhota Ram Tiwarl, Professor of Sanskrit at Bsghlpur 
College, has undertaken to translate and edit a correct text of this important 
work for the Bibliotheca Indica. (Alas, since the above was written, a learned 
and humble scholar, who never said an unkind word of anyone, and one of the 
most upright gentlemen with whom it has been my privilege to be on terms of 
intimacy, has gone to his long home. By his untimely death I have lost a 
true friend and a respected teacher.) 



16 THE MODEEN LITBEiET HI8T0ET OF HINDPSTiN. [§ 31. 

came to the throne in A.H. 947 (A.D. 1540), was then the ruling 
king. 927 is therefore probably incorrect for 947, 

The outline of the story of Padmawat is as follows : — There was 
a king named Rotan Sen, of Ghitaur, who was informed by a parrot 
of the great beauty of Padmawat or PadminT, daughter of the king 
of Sirjghal Dip (Ceylon). He journeyed to Ceylon as a mendicant, 
married her there, and returned with her to ChitSQr. After this one 
Ragho, a dismissed astrologer of Ratan's court, informed Alau'd-d'm 
Khilj'i, then reigning at DiUl, of the great beauty of Padminh 
Alau'd-d'm in consequence attempted, but unsuccessfully, to capture 
Ciutaur in order to obtain possession of her. He nevertheless, by 
a stratagem succeeded in capturing Ratan's person, and held him as a 
hostage for her surrender. During her husband's imprisonment 
proposals of an insulting nature were made to her by one Deb Pal, 
Eaja of Kambhal'ner, which she repelled with scorn. Ratan was 
subsequently released from his dungeon by the valour of two heroes, 
GoVa and Badal, the former being kiUed fighting bravely in the battle 
which ensued. As soon as Ratan was again seated on his throne, he 
attacked Kambhal'ner in revenge for the insult offered to his wife, and 
killed Deb Pal. He was, however, himself sorely wounded, and only 
arrived at OhitaSir in time to die. His two wives Padmin'i and 
Nag'mati became satl for him, and while their ashes were still warm 
the advance guard of Alau'd-din's army appeared at the gates of the 
city. It was nobly defended by Badal, who fell fighting in the 
gate, but was finally taken and sacked, "and Chitaur became Islam." 
In the final verses of his work the poet says that it is aU an allegory. 
By Chitaur he means the body of man ; by Ratan Sen the soul; by the 
parrot the guru or spiritual preceptor; by PadminI wisdom; by 
Ragho Satan; by Alau'd-d'm delusion, and so on. 

The story of the Padmawat is founded on the historical facts of the 
siege of Chitaur, which is described by Tod [kajastMn i, 262 (Calc. ed. 
i, 281), and ff.]. The substance is as f oUows : — Lakam 'si, the minor king 
of Chitaur, came to the throne A.D. 1275. His uncle Bh'm'si ruled 
during his minority. He had espoused PadminI, the daughter of 
Hamm'ir Sarjkh (Chauhan), of Ceylon. Alau'd-d'm besieged the city 
in order to obtain possession of her, and after a long and fruitless 
siege he restricted his desire to a mere sight of her extraordinary 
beauty, and acceded to the proposal of beholding her through the 
medium of mirrors. Relying on the faith of the Raj'pGt he entered 
Chitaur, slightly guarded, and having gratified his wish returned. 



§ 31.] IHE ROMANTIC POETET OF MALIK MUHAMMAD. [1540 A.D.] 17 

The Raj'put, unwilling to be outdone in confidence, accompanied the 
king to the foot of the fortress. Here Ala had an ambush waiting. 
Bhim'si was made prisoner, and his liberty made to depend on the 
surrender of PadminL She being informed of this, agreed to give herself 
up as a ransom for her husband ; and liaYing provided wherewithal to 
secure her from dishonour, she designed, with two chiefs of her own 
kin of Ceylon — her uncle Gora and her nephew Badal — a plan for the 
liberation of the prince without hazarding her life and fame. She was 
accompanied into Ala's camp by a procession of litters, borne by, and 
fiUed with, armed men disguised as females and handmaids, some of 
whom returned, taking Padmini and Bhim'si with them in disguise ; 
the rest 'remained in the enemy's camp till the ruse was discovered, 
when they covered the retreat of their master and were cut down to a 
man in doing so. Bhim'si and Padmini escaped into Chitaur, and after 
an imsuccessful attempt at storming the citadel (in which Gora was 
killed) Alau'd-din raised the siege. He returned again to the siege in 
1290 (Firishta says thirteen years later), and one by one eleven out of 
twelve sons of Bhim'si were slain. Then, having made arrangements 
for the escape of Ajaisl, his second son, to continue the family line, the 
Rana himself, calling around him his devoted clans, for whom Ufe had 
no longer any charms, threw open the portals and carried death into, 
and met it in the crowded ranks of Ala. 'But another awful sacrifice 
preceded this act of self-devotion, in that horrible rite the Jmhar, 
where the females are immolated to preserve them from pollution or 
captivity. The funeral pyre was lighted within the great subterranean 
retreat, in chambers impervious to the light of day, and the defenders 
of Chitaur beheld in procession its queens, their own wives and daugh- 
ters, to the number of several thousands. The fair Padmini closed the 
throng, which was augmented by whatever of female beauty or 
youth could be tainted by Tatar lust. They were conveyed to the 
cavern, and the opening" closed upon them, leaving them to find 
security from dishonour in the devouring element.' The Tatar 
conqueror took possession of an ioanimate capital, strewed with the 
bodies of its brave defenders, the smoke yet issuing from the recesses 
where lay consumed the once fair object of his desire. 

Malik Muhammad has changed the name of the hero from Bhim'si to 
Rntan, the name of the king of Mewdr who ruled at Chitaur at about 
the time that the poem was written (Tod, i, 309 ; Calc. ed. i, 328).* 

^ It is wortliy of note that the second sack of Chitaar, that by Bahadur of 
Gni'rat, took place in 1533 (Tod, i, 311 ; Calc. ed. 331). 



18 THE MODEEN LITEBAET HISTOET OF HINDtfSTAN. [§ 32. 

He has also borrowed part of his story from that of another Padma- 
wat, the Padmauati of Udayana and the Ratnauaji. He makes his 
hero turn a mendicant devotee in order to gain his beloved, and the 
scene of the burning together of the two queens, though suggested 
by the terrible real tragedy, seems also to bear marks of the somewhat 
similar situation in the EatnavaH. 

From the date of the Padmawat the literature of Hindustan 
became, so to speak, crystallised into two grooves. This was due to the 
Vaishnava reformation of Ramanand and Ballabhachar'J. The first 
of these, who has been already mentioned, founded the modern 
worship of Visnu in his incarnation of Ram (Eama), and the other 
the worship of the same god in his incarnation of Krish'n (Krisna). 
From this date all the great poetical works of the country were 
devoted to either one or other of these two incarnations, and MaKk 
Muhammad's work standi out as a conspicuous, and almost solitary, 
example of what the Hindu mind can do when freed from the trammels 
of literary and religious custom. It is true that there are examples 
of didaclic, grammatical, and medical works in the long roll of 
authors which follows ; but the fact remains that from the middle of 
the sixteenth century to the present day all that was great and good 
in Hindustani' literature was bound by a chain of custom or of 
impulse, or of both, to the ever-recurring themes of Earn and Krish'n. 
Eamanand has already ■ been dealt with, and his only conspicuous 
follower was Tul'si Das, concerning whom I shall hereafter deal at 
length. Before considering Ballabhachar'J and the great school of Braj 
authors founded by him, it will be convenient to clear the way by 
enumerating two minor writers. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTEE III. 



32. ^^ ^f^i the TJoet Dllh (?). tte Brahman of BSLt'i, district Sitspur. 

IB. 1533 A.D. 



B. 1S4S A.D. $To particulars. 
33. lifVfm^J^, Nardttam Das, 



Eag. The author of the Sudami 
Charitr- (Eag.). 



' I use this word here, as elsewhere, as the adjective corresponding to 
the substantive Hindustan, and not as meaning the so-called Hindustani 
language. 



§ 34.J THB KRISNA-CULT OF BHAJ, [1600 — 1600.] 19 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE KRISNA-CULT OP BEAJ. [1500—1600.] 



34. ^^^H-qiV^^ Ballabhachar'j, of Gokiil, in Braj. B. 
1478 A.D. 

Eag. Although Ballabhachar'j was more of a religious reformer 
than a literary character, I shall deal with him at greater length than 
I have done with Ramanand, both because of his greater importance, 
and because I am able to give some particulars concerning him which 
have not hitherto been made available to European scholars. Ballabha- 
char'j {Vallabhdcharya) was the celebrated founder of the Radha- 
ballabhl sect.^ According to Harishchandr',^ his father's name was 
Lachhman Bhatt (a Tailigga Brahman of Madras) and his mother's name 
was lUamgara. His father had three botls— Ram Krish'n, Ballabha- 
char'j, and Ram Chandr'. Both his brothers were Vaishnava authors 
of repute. Lachhman Bhatt Uved at Ajodhya, and was payiag a visit 
to Bandras when on the way, near the village of Chaurd, in the vicinity 
of Betiyd, in the district of Champdran, m. Bihdr, on Sunday, the llth 
of the dark half of B^sakh, Sambat 1535 (A.D. 1478), Ballabhachar'j 
was bom.* At Banaras he commenced studying under the celebrated 
Mddhi'wdchdr'j (Rag.) at the age of five years, and remained there till 
the death of his father, after which he led a wandering life and visited 
the court of Krish'n Deb, king of Bijainagar, apparently the same as 
Krish'n RayalQ, who reigned about the year 1520 A.D. Here he over- 
came the Smarta Brahmans in controversy (see Wilson, Religious 
Sects of the Hindus, p. 120). According to Harischandr', however, 
this took place before Sambat 1548 (A.D. 1491), when he was only 
thirteen years of age. In this year he made a tour to Braj, where he 
studied the Bhdgauata Purdna, and subsequently returned to Bandras, 
preaching Vaishnava doctrines as he went along. From Bandras he 
went to Gayd, Jaganndth, and the Deckan, spreading his doctrines 

' See Wilson, Meligious Sects of the Hindus, p. 120. 

2 Prasiddh MahStmai ka Jlban Charitr", ii, 28. 

3 See the third thandof the Bal/abh Digbijai, 'er'^tT \'m'i 'srr^ ^SS" '^Ust ttth 
■^vs ^^ KT^i^JX ^rafPT. See also a hymn by Dwarikea quoted by Harish- 
chandr'. I.e. 

V,2 



20 THE MODERN LITBEABT HISTOEY OS HINDfJSTAN. [§ 36. 

everywhere. He finished his first tour (technically called his Dighijai, 
or conquest of the world) in Sambat 1554 (A.D. 1497) at the age of 
nineteen.^ He then made Braj his head-quarters and established an 
image of Shr'i Ndth at Gobardhan. Prom this as his head-quarters he 
made his second missionary tour throughout India. He died in 
Bandras in Saimbat 1587 (A.D. 1530) at the age of fifty-two years, 
leaTing two sons — Gopl Nath and Bitthal Nath. He was a volumin- 
ous author. His most admired works are a commentary on the 
Bhdgauata Purdna entitled Subodhanl,^ the Anubhdsya, and the 
, Jaiminlya Satra Bhdsya. The two latter are in Sanskrit. Harish- 
chandr' (I.e.) gives a complete list of his works. The authorship 
of a vernacular work of considerable authority, the Bishnu Pact, or 
stanzas in honour of Visnu, is also attributed to him. Many verses 
by bim are iacluded ia the anthology entitled Rdg-Sagarodbhab oi 
Krishndnand Byds Deb. For further particulars see No. 35. 

35. fsTf^^^'ft^ftfi the holy master Bitthal Ndth, 
of Braj. FL 1550 A.D. 

Eag. Batlabhdchdr'j was succeeded as leader of the Rddhd- 
baHabhl sect by his son Bitthal Ndth, of Braj (FL 1550). Bitthal Ndth 
had seven sons, all of whom became Gosals, or leaders of the sect. 
The descendants of two of these {Gir'dhar and JadundthY still 
exist in GohulJ' Many of his verses are included in the Rag- 
Sdgarodbhab, and he is possibly the same as a Bitthal Kabi mentioned 
in the Sib Siygh Saroj as an erotic poet. 

Ballabhachar'j had four famous pupils, viz. Krish'n Dds. Pay 
Ahdri (No. 36), SQr Dds (No. 37), Par'mdnand Dds (No. S8),Kumbhan 
Dds (No. 39) ; mA. Bitthal Ndth had also four pupils, named Chatur'- 
bhuj Dds (No. 40), Chhit Swdml (No. 41), N and Dds (No. 4t2),Gobind 
Dds (No. 43) . The first four may be considered as flourishing ia the year 
1550, and the second four as flourishiag about 1567 A.D. These eight 
aU lived in Braj and wrote in Braj Bhakha, and are named the Ashta 
Chhdp, or eight acknowledged masters of the literature of that dialect. 
Wilson and others speak of a work entitled the Ashta Chhap, giving 
the lives of these poets ; and I once believed in the existence of such 

' This is the date quoted by Harishchandr'. 
2 According to Wilson, Subodhinl, 
' See Harishchandr' (I.e.), ii, 36. 

* For further information cf. Wilson, Relicfious Sects of the Hindus, i, 126. 
where he is wrongly called Vitala Nath. 



§ 37.] THE KRISNA-CDLT OF BEAJ. [1500—1600.] 21, 

a work myself, but I now know that by the term AsHa Chhdp is 
simply meant this list, which, so far as I can make out, was first given 
and so named in some verses of Sur Das (translated in No. 37) and 
next noted by me in a work entitled the Tul'sT Sabddr'th Prakds, 
by Gdpal Sirjgh, of BraJ, whose date I have been unable to give. 
I now proceed to mention these eight authors in detail. 

36. f^IT^ ^"TO ^nr ^^T^, Krish'n Das, sumamed Pay 
Aharl, or 'he whose food was milk,' of Gokul, in BfCLj. Fl. 1550 A.D. 

Eag. He was a disciple of BaUabfidohdr'j and a member of the Ashta 
Chhdp, — see No. 35. He was a graceful and sweet poet, many of whose 
verses will be found in the Rdg Sdgarodbhab. There is a legend that 
SOr Dds in his poetry had exhausted all that could possibly be said 
concerning the god Krish'n, and that hence, when Krish'n Dds wrote 
anything, it was always found to be identical with something that 
Sur Das had already written. One day the latter challenged tn'm to 
produce a single stanza which did not comply with this disagreeable 
necessity, and he failed to do so. He then promised to bring an 
original verse next day, and going away spent the whole night in 
vain endeavouring to concoct one. In the morning he found a verse 
mysteriously written upon his pillow, which he took to Sur Das, who 
at once identified it as one which had been written by their master, 
Ballabhdohdr'J. In spite of this legend, which seems to poiat to a 
rivalry between the two poets, Krish'n Dds is always graceful and 
as original as his subject will admit. His best known work is the 
Prem-ras-ras, His most famous disciples were Agr' Dds (No. 44), 
Kewal Ram (No. 45), Gadd Dhar (No. 46), Debd (No. 47), Kalydn 
(No. 48), Hati Ndrdyan (No. 49), and Padum Ndth (No. 50). Agr' 
Dds had IVdbhd Dds (No. 51), the author of the Bhaht Mdid, of whom 
more anon, for his disciple. 

37. ^T^T^? Sar Dds, the Bhat, of BraJ. Fl. 1550 A.D. 
Nir., Rag. Sur Das deserves a more extended notice. He was, with 

his father Baba Rdm Dds (No. 112), a singer at the court of the emperor 
Ak'bar (see Ain-i-Afibarl, Blochmann's translation, p. 612). He and 
Tul'si Dds are the two great stars in the firmament of Indian vernacular 
poetry. Tul'si was devoted to Earn (ekant Bam-sehak), while Sur Das 
was devoted to Krish'n {ekant Krish'n-sehak), and between them they 
are considered to have exhausted all the possibilities of poetic art. 

b3 



22 THE MODBEN LITBEAET HISTOET OP HINDtJSTlW. [§ 37. 

According to a tradition preserved in the glosses of the Bhaht 
Mala and to the Chaurdsi Barta, he was a SSraswat Brahman, and his 
father and mother were beggars who lived at GaQ Ghat or at Dilli. The 
fact that books of the authority of these two works countenance 
this theory is typical of the tendency of mediseval Indian authors to 
trust to tradition instead of to independent research. Subsequent 
writers, EngKsh and foreign, have followed the Bhaht Mala, and have 
aU been led wrong in consequence, for we have the very best authority, 
that of SUr Das himself, that he was not a Saraswat Brahman, and 
that his father was not a beggar and did not live at Gad Ghdt.^ 

Sar Das wrote a collection of emblematic verses {drisht hut) with 
the accompanying necessary commentary,^ and in the latter the author 
gives the following account of himself^ : — 

'The founder of my family was Br'ahm Rao,* first of the Jagat 
(or of the Prath Jagatf clan. In his famous family was born the 
handsome famous Ghand.^ To him Prithwi Raj (Fl. 1190 A.D.) gave 
the country of Jwdid, He had four sons, of whom the eldest succeeded 
bim as king {nares). The second was Gun Ghandr', whose son was 
S/7 Chandr', whose son was Blr Ohandr'. This last used to sport with 
Hammlr, ' king of Ran'thambhor. In his family was born Hari Chandr', 
who dwelt at Ag'rd. Hari Ghandr's heroic^ son dwelt in Gop'ehal and 
had seven sons, viz. (1) Krish'n Ghand, {2)UddrGhand, {S)Jurup Ghand 
(or possibly RQp Ghand), (4) Buddhi Ghand, (5) Deb Ghand, (6) 
(?) Sansrit Ghand, and (7) myself Suraj Ghand. My six brothers were 

' It irnist not be forgotten that Priydi Das, the author of the gloss to the 
Bhaht MalSi, collected the traditions more than a centnry after Sur Das's death. 

2 The work has been printed at the Light Press, Banaras. 

3 The late lamented Harishchand/, of Banaras, the greatest, I had almost 
said the only, critic of Hindustan, was the first to draw attention to this in 

his magazine the Harishohandra Chandtika, vol. vi, No. 5, pp. 1—6. The article 
has been subsequently reprinted in the collection known as Prasiddh Mahatmil 
fta J'iban Charitr'. (Bankipur. Sahib Prasad Siggh. Khadg Bilas Press. 1885.) 

^ The title Bad renders it probable that he was either a raja ( of royal 
stock) or a Bhat or panegyrist. 

* This clan is not mentioned in the list of clans of Saraswat Brahmans 

drawn up by Pandit Radhes Misar, Jagat or jagatiya means a panegyrist. 

" Or perhaps Bhao Chand, if we take bAm ( = hua, ' was' ) as a contraction 
of bha6„ 

1 The famous king of Ran'thambhor, who was attacked by Alau'd-din KhiljJ, and 
for whom 1,000 wives became satt. The date of his death was about 1300 A,D. 

8 His son's name was probably Ram Chandr', which he subsequently changed, 
according to Vaishnava custom, to Ram Das. But a possible translation of the 
passage gives his name as Bir ^Chandr'). 



§ 37.] THE KRISNA-CTTIT OF BEAJ. [1500—1600.] 23 

killed in battle with the Musalmans ; I alone, Stiraj Chand, blind' 
and worthless, remained aliTe. I was fallen into a well/ and 
■though I called for help, no one saved me. On the seventh day 
Jadupati (Krish'n) came and pulled me out' and, making himseU 
visibletome(or.giAringmemy eyesight), said "Son, ask what thou 
desirest as a boon." I said, "Lord, I ask for the boon of perfect 
devotion, for the destruction of the enemy,* and that now that I have 
seen the form of my God, mine eyes may never see aught else." As 
the Ocean of Compassion heard me, he said. " So let it be. Thine 
enemy will be destroyed by a mighty Brahman of the Deckan." 
Then named he me Suraj Das, SOr, and Sur Syam, and disappeared, 
and thereafter all was darkness to me.^ I then went to live in Braj, 
where the holy master {Bitthal Nath) entered my name in the Aahta 
Cfifiap.'^ We thus get the following genealogy : — 
Brahm Rao, the Jagat. 

Chandr'. (Fl. 1190 A.D.) 

I 
Second son. Gun Chandr'. 

Si/ Chandr'. 

Bir Chandr'. (Fl. 1300 A.D.) 

Hari Chandr' (of Ag'rd). 

Descendants unknown. 

Ram Chandr' (of Gop-chal). 

Suraj Chand ( Fl. 1550) and six others. 
It is evident that he was not of a Brahman, but of a royal stocks 
According to tradition he was bom about Sambat 1540 (1483 A.D.) 

' Either literally or figuratively. Owing to the undoubted fact of his 
blindness, every blind singing mendicant is nowadays called a Sur Das. 

= This may by taken literally, i.e. fallen into a dry well (andAa Ms), or 
figuratively that he was a sinner. 

2 Or, taken figuratively, after seven days of internal conflict I became 
converted and obtained salvation. 

■* I.e. of his evU passions, or perhaps of the Musalmans. 

* I.e. Ballabhcichar'j. 

^ I.e. he became literally blind,— the fulfilment of his third request, dusard 
na deJcho rupa, dehTii Bddhd-Syama. The line may also be translated, 'he 
disappeared in the last watch of the night.' 

' The list of the eight great poets of Braj. See No. 36, 
' He calls Chand'r's eldest son nares, 

b4 



24 THE MODEEN LITEEAET HI8T0ET OP HINDOSTIN. [§ 37. 

and was instructed by his father at Ag'ra in singing, in Persian, and 
the vernacular. On his father's death he took to writing hymns 
(bkajans), and gained many disciples. At this time he signed his 
verses SOr Swaml, and under that title wrote a poem dealing with the 
story of Nala and Damaymti} He was then in the prime of his 
youth, and is said to have lived at Giia Ghat, a village nine kbs from 
^g'ra on the road to Mathura. About this time he himself became a 
disciple of Ballabhdchar'j, and signed his poems with the name 
of Sar Das, Sar, Saraj Das, or, as before, SQr Syam.^ At this time 
he translated the Bhdgauata Parana into verse in the vemafiular,, 
and he also collected his hymns into the compilation entitled the 
SQr Sdgar (Rag.).* In his old age his fame reached the ears of the 
emperor Ak'bar, who summoned him to his court. He died in Gokul 
about Sambat 1620 (1563 A.D.). The above tradition is certainly 
wrong so far as regards dates and as regards SQr Das's father, 
for the hn-i-Ahbarl, which was completed in 1596-97 AD., mentions 
both SQr Das and Babd Ram Das as (apparently) then alive. AbQ'l 
Fa?l says that Ram Das came homGuidliyar, but Badaonl (ii, 42) says 
he came from Lahh'naQ. 

Another legend current throughout India concerning Siir Das may 
be mentioned. Subsequently to his becoming blind, during the absence 
of his amanuensis, Krish'n came himself and wrote down for him the 
words which welled forth from the unsuspecting poet's moutL At 
length Sur Das perceived that the writer was outstripping his tongue, 
and was writing down his thoughts before he had uttered them. Eecog- 
nising the Antaraj&mi God by this, Siir Das seized him by the hand, 
but Krish'n thrust him away and disappeared. Siir Das then uttered 
a poem stiU extant, and in my opinion by far his highest flight, 
the leading idea of which is that though a mortal might thrust him 
away, no one but Grod could tear himseK from the poet's heart.* 

Regarding Sur Das's place in literature, I can only add that he justly 
holds a high one. He excelled in aU styles. He could, if occasion 
required, be more obscure than the Sphynx and in the next verse be as 

' No copies of this are known to exist. 

^ Also possibly Sant Das. (See No. 235.) 

" Said to contain 60,000 verses. 

* Kara chhatahdi jdtu ham, dwabala jam, moM 

Siradat/a se jtm jdhuge, marada haJehdrM tohi. 

Thou thrustest away my hand and departest, knowing that I am weak 

(and pretending that thou art but a man), 

But not till thou depart from my heart will I confess thee to be a mortal. 



§ 42.] THE KRI9NA-CULT OP BEAJ. [1500—1600.] 25 

clear as a ray of light. Other poets may have equalled him in some 
particular quality, but he combined the best qualities of aU.* Natives 
of India give him the very highest niche of fame, but I believe 
the European reader will prefer the nobility of character of all that 
Tul'sT Das wrote to the often too cloying sweetness of the blind 
bard of Ag'ra. 



38. 1TT7T"R«^ ^T^, Par.'manand Das, oiBraj. FL 1550 
A.D. 

Rag. 

39. IWI ^T^i Kumbhan Das, of Bra}. Fl. 1550 A.D. 
Rag. These two were pupils of BaUabhachar'j (No. 34), and are 

included in the Ashta Chhap. 

40. "^"^T^lJ^r ^TWi Chatur'bhuj Das. Fl. 1567, 

Rag. He is included in the Ashta Chhap as a pupil of Bitthal Nath, 

of Gohul (No. 35). He is probably the same as another Chatur'- 

. bhuj mentioned by Sib Siggh. Garcin de Tassy (i, 142), quoting the 

■ preface to the Prem Sagar, mentions a Chatur'bhuj Misar, author 

of a Braj translation of the 10th book of the Bhdgauata Purdna 

in doAas and chmipahs. 

41. ^fJTT W^t ChhltSuiami. Fl. 1567A.D. 

Rag. He is iacluded in the Ashta Chhdp as a pupil of Biiihal 
Ndth (No. 35). He is possibly the same as a Chhit Kabi iacluded 
in Haj., whom Sib Siggh dates as 1648 A.D. 

42. wT*^ ^^^ f^i^"^ ^^s *1^^ Brahman, of Rdm'pur. Fl. 
1567. 

Rag. He was a pupil of Bitthal Ndth (No. 35), and his name is 
included in. the Ashta Chhdp. A proverb about him is ^x; ^^ 
arf^T, T^ ^TO 3it%?rr, — All others are simply founders (or melters), 

' As an anonymous poet of Ak'bar's court says, " Gagg excels in sonnets 
and Bir'bal in the Kahitta metre. KSsab's meaning is ever profound, but Siir 
possesses the excellences of all three." 



26 THE MODERN tITBHAET HISTOET OK HINDtTSTlN. [§ 43. 

but Nand Das is the artificer (who joins the pieces of cast metal into a 
composite whole). His principal works are (1) Nam Mala, (2) 
AnSkarth, (3) Panchadhyayl (Rag.) (printed. It is a poem in imita- 
tion of the Glta Gouinda, see Garcin de Tassy, i, 387), (4) Rukm'in'i 
Matjgal (Eag), (5) Dasam Shandh, (6) Dan Ula, (7) Man Llla. He is 
also, the author of numerous detached verses. 



43. 'Ttf^*^ '^'m-, Gobind Das, oi Braj. Fl. 1567A.D. 
Rag. He was a disciple of Bitthal Nath (No. 35) and a member 
of the Ashta Ghhap. 



44. '^^» ^T^, Agr' Das, of Gal'ta, in AmBr (Jaipur). Fl. 
1575 A.D. 

Rag. He was a disciple of Krish'n Das Pay Aharl (JSTo. 36), who 
together with Sur Das was a disciple of Ballabhachar'J. He himself 
was preceptor of Nabha Das (No. 51), the celebrated author of the Bfiakt 
Mala. Many of his songs are included in Rag. He is possibly the same 
as another poet mentioned by Sib Siijgh as beiag born in 1569 A.D., 
and the author of Kundaliya, Chhappai, and Doha verses on morals. 

45. W^"^ TJ^ '^^^) the poet Kewal Ram, of Braj. 
FL 1575 A.D. 

Rag. Mentioned in the Bhakt Mala. A disciple of Krish'n Das 
Pay Aharl (No. 36). 

46. TT^T T^T ^W^ Gada Dhar Das. Fl. 1575 A.D. 

He was a pupil of Krish'n Das Pay Aharl (No. 36). He is probably 
the same as a Gadadhar mentioned by Sib Siggh as a quietistio 

(irrf^x^) poet. 

47. ^^^ff^i thepoetflefia of(/flra7/)M*-(/IfeH/ar). FL 1575 
A.D. 



48. ^^"R ^W<j Kalyan Das, of Bra/. Fl. 1575 A.D, 
Rag. 



§ 51.] THB KRI?NA-CULT OF BEAJ. [1500 — 1600.] 27 

49. "Wft •IK.T^rT, HatJ Narayan, of BraJ. Fl. 1575 A.D. 

50. ^^ •n*r, Padum Nabh, of Braj. Fl. 1575 A.D. 

Eag. These four were all disciples of Krish'n Das Pay Ahari 
(No. 36). 

51. •n*n ^T^ "^fN"^ the poet Nabha Das alias Narayan 
Das, of the Deccan. Fl. 1600 A.D. 

We shall now anticipate the course of time a little in order to 
complete the history of this famous group of Braj poets. Krish'n Das 
Pay Ahar'i (No. 36) had, a pupil, Agr' Das (No. 44), of Gal'ta, who in 
turn was preceptor of Nabha Das alias Narayan Das, of the Dechan, 
who flourished about 1600 A.D. and was a Dom by caste. , According 
to tradition he was born blind, and when but five years old was exposed 
by his parents, during a time of scarcity, to perish in the woods. In 
this situation he was found by Agr' Das and another Yaishnava named 
Kil. They had compassion upon his helplessness, and Kil sprinkled his 
eyes with the water of his kamandal, or water-pot, and the child saw. 
They carried Nabha to their Math, where he was brought up and receiy- 
ed the initiatory mantra from Agr" Das. When arrived at maturity, 
under the direction of Agr' Das he wrote the Bhaht Mala (Rag.) or 
"Legends of the Saints," consisting of 108 verses in Chhappja metre.* 
It is one of the most difficidt works in the Braj dialect, and, as we have 
it now, was avowedly edited, and perhaps rewritten, by a disciple (?) 
of Nabha Das entitled Narayan Das who Kved ia the reign of Shah 
Jahdn (1628 — 1658). Mr. Growse, to whom I am indebted for this 
last piece of information, adds : — 'A single stanza is aU that is ordi- 
narily devoted to each personage, who is panegyrised with reference to 
his most salient characteristics in a style that might be described as 
of unparalleled obscurity were it not that each separate portion of the 
text is followed by a gloss written by one Priya Das (No. 319) in the 
Sambat year 1769 (1712 A.D.), in which, confusion is stiU worse 
confounded by a series of most disjointed and inexplicit allusions to 
different legendary events in the saint's life.' Priya Das's gloss is in 
the Kabitta metre. He was followed by Lai Jl (No. 322), a Kayasth 
of Kadhala, who in Hij'ri 1158 (A.D. 1751) wrote a further 
commentary, entitled Bhalit Urbasl. In the year 1864 Tul's'i Ram 

> The above is mainly taken from Wilson, Beligidus Sects of the Hindus, 
i, 60. Cf. Garcin de Tassy, i, 378. 



28 THE MODEEN UTBEAET HISTOEY OF HINDffSTiN. [§ 52, 

Agar'wald (No. 640), of l/llrapur, translated the Bhaht Mala into 
Urdu, calling his translation the Bhaht Mai Pradlpan. 

The name Ndrdyan Das, which Mr. Qrowse attributes to a disciple 
of Nabhd Dds, was, according to Natiye writers, really the actual name 
of Nabha Das, the latter being his nom de guerre. Ndbhd Dds is 
possibly the same as a Ndrdyan Dds Kabi mentioned in the Sib Siygk 
Saroj as bom in 1558 A.D. and author of a translation of the 
Hitopdde(^a and Rdjanlti into the vernacular, and as another Ndrdyan 
Dds, a Vaishnava author of an undated prosody describing 52 metres, 
entitled Chfiand Sdr. 

52. ^'^T ^T^ ^rf^-} the poet Kdnfidr Dds, of Braj. 
Fl. 1600 A.D. 

Rag. He was son of Bitthal Dds ChaUbe, of Mathurd. At a meet- 
ing held at his house Ndbhd DdS (No. 51) received the title of GosSi. 

53. ^ *rf ^1t, the poet SrT Bhatf. B. 15U A.D. 

Eag. He is said to have excelled in describing the actions of a 
lover and his beloved. Possibly the same as Kesab Bhatt (see Wilson, . 
Beligious Sects of the Hindus, i, 151), one of the pupils of Nimdditya. 

54. ^W ^rnffr^ Byds Swaml alias Hari Rdm Suk'l, of 
Ur'ohhd, in Bundel'khand. FL 1555 A.D. 

Eag. He was a GaSr Brahman of Deb'band, and joined the Radhd- 
ballabhl sect. In the year 1555 A.D., when he was forty-five years of 
age, he settled ia Brinddban and founded a new Vaishnava religion, 
entitled the HaribydsT sect. According to Wilson (Beligious Sects of 
the Hindus, p. 1^1), he and Kesab Bhatt were pupils of Nimdditya 
(Rag.), the founder of the Nimdwat sect. 

55. XTSi;;^ ^"W Parasi Rdm, of Braj. B. 1603 A,D, 
Rag., Dig. He was a follower of Sri (Kesab) Bhatt anAHaribyds 

(see Wilson, Beligious Sects of the Hindus, p. 151), It is not certain 
that the poets quoted in Eag and Dig. are the same person. 

56. ff rT TfT^^ ^[Wft ifkft% the very holy 
master Hit Haribans. Fl. 1560 A,D. 



§ 60.] THE K?I§NA-CnM OF BEAJ. [1600—1600.] 29 

Rag. His father was Byas Swaml alias Hari Ram Suh'l (No. 54). 
He is a muck esteemed author. In Sanskrit he wrote the Rddha 
Sudhanidhi, and in the vernacular the Hit Chaurasi Dham. Amongst 
his pupils was the poet Nar Bahan (No. 57). See Wilson, Religious 
Sects of the Eindus, p. 177, and Growse, J. A. S. B., voL xlvii 
(1878), p. 97, where specimens of hoth his works are given and 
translated. 

57. cTT Tl^'f ^ 'Sjrf^l the poet Nar Bahan Jl, of 
Bhaugaw. Fl. 1560 A.D. 

He was a disciple of Hit Hdribans (No. 56). He is mentioned in 
the Bhakt Mala. 



58. ^sT ^T^i Dhmb Das. Fl. 1560 A.D. 

Rag. A pupil of Hit Haribans (No. 56), and a voluminous 
writer. A complete list of his works is given by Mr. Growse in 
J. A. S. B., voL xlvii (1878), p. 113. 

59. ^fr ^T^ ^'ft') the master Hari Das, oi Brindaban, 
in Braj. Fl. 1560 A.D. 

Rag. His Sanskrit works are considered equally good with those 
of JayadSua, and his vernacular poems rank next after those of 
SHr Das and Tul'sl Das. His best known works are the Sddhdran 
Siddhdnt and the Ras he pad. He had many celebrated pupils, amongst 
whom may be mentioned Tan Ssn (No, 60), Bipul Bitttial (No. 62) 
(his uncle), and Bhag'wat Ramit (No. 61). He is said by Wilson to 
have been a pupil of Chaitanya, who disappeared about A.D. 1527 
(Religious Sects of the Hindus, p. 159). This, however, is . doubtful. 
See Growse, J. A. S. B., vol. xlv (1876), p. 317, where the matter 
is discussed at length, and where (p. 318) the text of the Sadharan 
Siddhant is given and translated. 

60. rTT^T ^T ^f^i the poet Tan Sen, of Gwaliyar. Fl. 1560. 
Rag. He was son of Mak'rand Pars, a Ganr Brahman. He 

was a disciple of Hari Das (No. 59), from whom he learned the art of 
poetry. He then repaired to Shekh Muhiammad Ghaus, of Gwaliyar, 
a famous teacher of singing. The legend is that Muhammad Gha«s 



30 THE MODBEN IITEBAEY HISTOET OF HIKDPSTiN. [§ 61. 

simply touched Tan Sen's tongue with his own, and thenceforth Tan 
Sen became the most famous singer of his age. 

He became enamoured of Daulat Khan, son of the famous Sher 
Khan, and wrote many poems in his honour. When Daulat Khan 
died he went t6 the court of Ram Chand Siggh, the Baghela king 
of Bandho {Riuua). From thence he was summoned (A.D. 1563) by 
the emperor Ak'bar, where he became one of the court singers and 
a close friend of SHr Das (see Ain-i-AIcbarl, Blochmann's translation, 
pp. 403, 612). The first time that Tan Sen performed at court the 
emperor is said to have made him a present of two lakhs of rupees. 
Most of his compositions are written m Ai'bar's name, and his melodies 
are even nowadays everywhere repeated by the people of Hindiistan, 
His most famous work on music is the Sarjgit Sdr (Rag.). 

61. ^TTTcIrr Tif'Tfr? Bhag'wat Ramit, of Brindaban, 
in Braj, Fl. 1560 A.D. 

He was son of Madhab Das (No. 26) and pupil of Hari Das 
(No. 59). He is the author of some admired Kundaliyas. 

62. f^"5^ f^^') Bipul Bitthal, of Gohul, in Braj. Fl. 
1560 A.D. 

Eag. He was uncle and pupil of Hari Das (No. 69). He 
attended the court of the raja of Madhuban, and many of his verses 
are included in Rag. 



63. ^fi"^ ^W^ Kssab Das, of Kashmir. Fl. 1541 A.D. 
Rag. After acquiring a great reputation he came to Braj, and 

was conquered in discussion by Krish'n Chaitanya. 

64. ^V^ TTT ^f^^ the poet Abhay Ram, of Brindaban, 
in. Braj. B. 15^5 A.D. 

Haj., Rag. 

65. ^^ f^TTU ^f^? the poet Chatur Biharl, of Braj. 
B. loJj.8 AD. 

Rag. He is probably the same as two other poets, Chatur Kabi 
aad Chatur Biharl, mentioned by Sib Siijgh without dates. 



§ 75.] 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTBB IT. 



31 



66. •rnCT^T 'Tf , the master Ncirayan Bhatt, of 9oh Gaw 
Bar'sanci, in Bmj. B. 1563 A.D. 

Bag. He was a very holy man. 

67. '?[^^T^ Sayyad Ibrahim alias the poet Ras Khan, of 
Pihanl, district Har'dol. B. 157S A.D. 

Sun. He was originaljy a Musalman, but turned a Vaishnava and 
dwelt in Braj. He is mentioned in the Bhaht Mala. His poems are 
said to be full of sweetness. One of his pupils was Qadlr Bahhsh 
(No. 89). 

68. «rT^ «Rf«r, the poet Nath. B. 158U A.D. - 

Rag., ? Sun. He was son of Gopal Bhatt, and dwelt in Bruj. 
Poems by him on the seasons and other subjects are included in Rag. 

69. f^^T ^T^, Bidya Das, of Bmj. B. 1593 A.D. 
Rag. 

ADDENDA TO CHAPTER IV. 



70. %?5^ ^, the poet Keh'rh 
B. 1553 A.D. 

He attended the court of king 
Ratan Siggh, and was a skilled poet. 
This was probably Raw Ratan, of Bur'- 
han'pur, district Nimar, wLo flourished 
A.D.1579. (See Tod, ii, 485; Calc.ed. 
ii, 522.) 

71. '«l*l»*<'1 ^TO, Aa'karan 
Das, the EachhVaha Eaj'put of Nar"' 
war Garh, in Gwaliyar. Fl. c. 1550 
A.D. 

Eag. He was son of king Bhlm 
Siggh. See Tod, ii, 363; Calc. ed. 
ii, 390. 

72. ^rM ^^ ^flV, the poet 
Chetan Chandr". B. 1559 A.D. 

He wrote a treatise on reterinary 
surgery (^tiflr-T^'a) entitled Ashwa 



Binod for king Kusal Siggh, of the 
Ssgar family. 

78. fWi' Krm ^, the poet 
and prince Prithwi Raj. PI. 1567 A.D. 
Haj., Eag. He was prince of 
BIkaner, and wrote both in Sanskrit 
and in the vernacular. He was son 
of Kalyan Siggh and brother of Eaja 
Ray Siggh. See Tod's Bajasthan, i, 
337 and ff. ; ii, 186 ; Calc. ed. i, 363 
andff.;ii, 203. 

74. V<v»id qft%, the poet 
Par'bat. Fl. 1S67 A.D. 

Haj. 

75. W^- ^, the poet Chhattr'. 
B. 1568 A.D. 

The author of a work entitled the 
Bijm Mukt&ball, which is an abstract 
of the Mahabharata in verse. It is 



32 



THE MODEEN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDtfSTjN. 



[§76. 



extremely condensed, being little more 
than a table of contents. He is possi- 
bly the same as a Chhattr' Pat'i Kabi 
mentioned by Sib Siggh. 

76. ^^ tW> Maharaj Uday 
Siggh, of Mat'war. Fl. 1584 A.D. 

In his name an unknown bard 
wrote a work called Khyat, in which 
are detailed the histories of Uday 
Siggh, of Ms grandson Gaj Siggh, and 
of his great grandson Jas'want Siggh. 
See Tod, ii, 4 (where Gaj is incor- 
rectly called Uday's son), and ii, 30 ; 
Calc. ed. ii, 32. 

77. ^^^ ^f^, the poet Jlban, 
B. IBSl A.D. 

Haj., Eag. 

78. Trfsiraf "^^ ^fft'j the poet 
/Uan/A Chand. B. 1551 A.D. 



79. ^ift TT^ ^f^> the poet 
OdhoRam. B. 15S3 A..J). 

Haj.,? Bag. Cf. No. 495, 

80. f^ ^n«r ^if^, the poet 
NandLal. K 1554 A.D. 

Haj. 

81. T^ ^"^ f»WK, Gangs JI 
Miaar. B.1SS8 A.J). 

82. «J^rra ^v** ^^> tiio 

poet Jalalu'd din. B. 1558 A.D. 
Haj. 

83. ^^'^nr %f^, the poet 

On mm. B.iseiA.'D. 

Haj. 



84. ^ *<1« ^T«, Oamedar Das, 
oiBraJ. B. 1565. 

Eag. Possibly , the same as a 
DimBdar /fa6; mentioned by Sib Siggh, 
without date. 

85. SWra 'a^fW, Jamalu'd din, 
of Pihani, district Hardol. B. 1568 
A.D. 

No particulars. He is possibly 
the same as a Jamil Kabi, whom Sib 
Siggh gives as bom in 1545 A.D., 
and as being skilled in emblematic 
verses (^^). 

86. f'^ ^^> the poet Nandan. 
B. 1568 A.D. 

Haj. 

87. ^ ^f^ the poet Khem, 
of Braj. B. i573 A.D. 

Eag. He wrote on lovers.' He is 
possibly the same as a poet Chhem, of 
the Doab, mentioned by Sib Siggh. 
Cf . Nos. 103 and 311. 

88. fira' ^rf^r, the poet 5/6. B. 
lS7i. 

Haj., Sun. 

89. ^Tf^^ra^, Qndir Bakhsh, 
the Miisalman, of Pih&nl, district 
Har'doi. B. 1578 A.D. 

A skilled poet. He was a pupU. 
of the elegant author Sayyad Ibrahim, 
of Pihani (No. 67). 

90. ^nrr^ ^fft', the poet 
Am'res. B. 1578 A.D. 

Eeputed as a very excellent poet, 
many of whose poems are in Haj. 



1 "When it is said that a poet wrote on lovers, it is to be understood as a 
translation of a statement made by a Native authority that he wrote a Nayalf 
BhBd or a Nayilta [or Nayalta (sic)] BhSd. These are technical names for those 
works in which the various kinds of heroes {nflyah) or heroines {ndyi&d) are 
described and classified to an extreme, and often absurd, minuteness. A further 
development is the Nahh'silih, which will be frequently met with further on, 
in which all the portions of the body and features of a possible hero or heroine, 
from the toe-nails {jiaJch) to the top-knot {sikh), are similarly classified. 



§ 102.J 



ADDENDA TO CHAFTEB IV. 



33 



91. f%TT^, 
B. 1378 A.D. 



Nihil, the elder. 



92. ^T ^-nr %*•<!«, Ghan Syim 
Suk'L, of As'ni, district Fatih'pur. 
B. 1B78 A.D. 

Haj., Sun. He attended the court 
of the king of Bandhd {Rlwa). 

93. ^^ W^, CAanrf SaAtA?, of 
BraJ. B. 1581 A.D. 

Bag. He is possibly the same as 
a Chand Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh 
and included in Haj., and as a Chand 
Kabi quoted in Sun. 

94. 5«IK* ^?^, Sayyad Muba. 
mk 'All, of Bil'grOm, district Har'doJ. 
B. 1S83 A.D. 

Sun. He is the well-known author 
of hundreds of short verses current 
in the mouths of the people. 

95. TTTT ^ifk, the poet Nagar. 
B. 1391 A.D. 



Haj. Possibly the same as a 
Nagarl Daa mentioned in the preface 
to Eag. 

96. f^«a«^n. '^^, the poet 
Dil'dar. B. 1393 A.D. 

Haj. 

97. '^«[cT ^, the poet Daiilat. 
B. 1394 A.D. 

98. ai*i«i cnH, the poet Jagan. 
B. 1393 A.D. 

An erotic writer. 

99. <n^ 5^, the poet Taj. 
B. 1395. 

Haj. 

100. ^Srra^ ^T«, Lalan Dia a 
Brahman of Dal'maO, district Ray 
Barell. B. 1595. 

Haj. A quietistic (5ni% X^) poet. 

101. 1 i<-'=n ^rf^, the poet BUrah. 
B. 1598 A.T). 

102. fk^ ITSr ^ff^, the poet 
BisLua Nath the elder. B. i59S. 



34 THB MODERN LITEEAEY HI8T0ET OF HINDPSTlN. [§ 103. 

CHAPTER V. 

THE MUGHAL COURT. 



103. ^T ^f^l the poet ' and bard Chhem, of DaI'maQ, 
district Ray BarSll. FL 1530. 

He attended the conrt of the emperor HumayCIn (1530 — 1540), 
He is possibly the same as a poet Khem of BundSl'ttfiand mentioned ~ 
by Sib Siggh. -Cf. Nos. 87 and 311. 

104. ^^r»WT! ^T^'^nr? the emperor Ak'bar. Reigned 
1556 to 1605 AJ). 

We may now glance at the brilliant court of the emperor Ak'bar 
(B. 1542) and the constellation of poets which shone there. Most of the 
foregoing authors, from Malik Muttammad (No. 31) downwards, were 
contemporaries of this king, who was so celebrated a patron of learning. 
It may be noted that the reign of the emperor Ak'bar nearly coiacided 
with that of the English queen Elizabeth, and that the reigns of 
both these monarchs were signalised by an extraordinary outburst of 
literary vigour ; nor, indeed, if Tul'sl Das and SOr Das were compared 
with Shakespeare and Spenser would the Indian poets be found very 
far behind. In addition to the foUowiug poets. Tan Sen (No. 60) 
and Sdr Das (Ko. 37) also attended his court. Particulars about them 
have been given in the previous chapter. 

Ak'bar's claim as a Hindi author is founded only on a few 
detached verses, ia which he signs himself as Akabbar Ray. Possibly 
these were really written by Tan Sen. (See No. 60.) 

105. 3^^T *r^ W^-) Raja Jodar Mai, the Khattrl. 
B. 1523. 

The celebrated miaister of the emperor Ak'bar. He is wrongly 
called a Panjabi, because the Ma'asiru'l Umara says he. was born at 
Lahatir. He was, however, really born at Lahar'pur, in Audh. (See 
Ain-i-Akhari, Blochmann's translation, p. 620.) 



§ 106.] THB MUGHAL COURT. 35 

He translated the Bhagauata Parana into Persian. His best 
known vernacular verses are on morals (^tf^); He died in Hij'ri 998 
(1589 A.D.). For his life see Am-i-Akbun' p. 351. His influence 
in making Hindus learn Persiaii is especially noteworthy, as it 
accounts for the formation and acceptance of Urdu. 

106. '«rr<»«I'C!l, Raja Blr'bal, alias BWbar, alias Mahes Das, 
alias Brahm Kabi, alias Kabi Ray. Born cir. 1528 A.D. 

Nir., Sun. The celebrated minister and poet-lattreate (Kabi Eay) 
of Ah'bar's court. He was as much renowned for his liberality as for 
his musical skill and poetical talent. His short verses, hon-mots, and 
jokes, are stiU in the mouths of the people of Hindustan. He was 
much hated by pious Musalmans, owing to the belief that he had 
influenced Ak'bar to abjure Islam. According to Sib Singh he was 
bomin Sambat 1585 (A.D. 1528), but Blochmann in the Ain-i-Akbari 
(p. 404 and ff.) leaves the matter in obscurity. His original name was 
Mahes Das, and he was a Kanaiuj Dube Brahman of Kat'pl, in the d istrict 
of HamTr'pur. He was at first one of the court poets of B hag' wan Das,^ 
Raja of Amer, who gave him as a nazar to Ak'bar shortly after the 
latter's accession. At this time he used to sign himself in his poems. 
as Brahm Kabi. At Ak'bar's court he was at first very poor but quick- 
headed, and remarkable for his powers of apprehension. His bon-mots 
in a short time made him a general favourite. His Hindi verses were 
also much liked, and Ak'bar conferred on him the title of Kabi Ray 
(above mentioned), and gave him other important state offices near his 
person. Nagar'liot was given to him as his jaglr, but it is doubtful 
if he ever really got it. In A.H. 990 (A.D. 1683) Blr'bal was sent 
by Ak'bar to reinforce Zain Khan Kokah at BiJSur against the Yusufzais, 
and was there killed in battle. Baddoni (translation of Ain-i-Akbari, 
l.c. and p. 204) says ' Blr'bal also, who had fled from fear of his life, 
was slain, and entered the row of the dogs in heU, and thus got some- 
thing for the abominable deeds he had done during his lifetime. * * * 
His Majesty (Ak'bar) cared for the death of no grandee more than for 
that of Blr'bal. He said, "Alas! they could not even get his body 
out of the pass, that it might have been burned." But at last 
he consoled himself with the thought that Blr'bal was now free and 
independent of all earthly fetters, and as the rays of the sun were 
sufficient for him, there was no necessity that he should be cleansed by 

1 Tod, ii, 362 ; Calc. ed. ii, 390. 

c2 



36 THE MODERN LITEBAET EI8T0ET OP HINDCsTIn. [§ 106. 

fire. * * * Among the silly lies — they border on absurdities — ^which 
during this year (A.D. 1588) were spread over the country was the 
rumour that Blr'bal, the accursed, was still alive, though in reality 
he had then for some time been burning in the seventh hell. The 
Hindus, by whom his Majesty is surrounded, saw how sad and 
sorry he was for Bir'bal's loss, and invented the story that Blr'bal 
had been seen in the hills of Nagar'kot walking about with Jogis 
and Sannyasis. His Majesty believed the 'rumour, thinking that 
^Blr'bal was ashamed to come to court on account of the defeat 
which he had suffered at the hands of the Yusufzals ; and it was, 
besides, quite probable that he should have been seen with JogIs, 
inasmuch as he had never cared for the world. An Ahadd was 
therefore sent to Nagar'kot to inquire into the truth of the rumour, 
when it was proved that the whole story was an absurdity. Soon 
after his Majesty received a report that Blr'bal had been seen at 
Kalinjar (which was the jaglr pf this dog), and the Collector of the 
district stated that a barber had recognised him by certain marks 
on his body, which the man had distinctly seen when one day Blr'bal 
got him to rub his body with oiL From that time, however, BrrTsal 
had concealed himself. His Majesty then ordered the barber to come 
to court, and the Hindu Krorl (Collector) got hold of some poor" 
innocent traveller, charged him with murder, and kept him in 
concealment, giving out that he was Blr'bal. The Krorl could of 
course send no barber to court. He therefore killed the poor traveller 
to avoid detection, and reported that it was Blr'bal in reality, but that 
he had since died. His Majesty went actually through a second 
mourning, but he ordered the Krorl and several others to come to 
court. They were for some time tortured as a pimishment for not 
having informed his Majesty before, and the Krorl had, moreover, to 
pay a heavy fine.' 

BirTDal founded the town of Ak'bar'pur and dwelt there, and in 
the Nar'naul quarter of that town his descendants stitl exist. 

No complete work by Bir'bal has come down to us, but numerous 
verses and bon-mots attributed to him are stiU in every* Hindii's mouth. 
An anonymous work, entitled the Bir'bar-nama, can be bought 
for a few pice in any Bihar bazar. It is a collection of facetious tales, 
of which the heroes are Ak'bar and Bir'bal, and in which the latter 
always gets the better by some witty or indecent retort. It is, in fact, 
the Indian Joe Miller's Jest Book. Some of the stories are the 
common property of aE nations. 



§ 109.] THE MUGHAL COURT. 37 

107. T'iVfT ^T^ ^f^^ the poet and Raja Manohar 
Das. the KachhVaha. Fl. 1577 A.D. 

He was son of Raja Lotjkaran, the KachhVaha, and was one of 
Ak'bar's commanders of 400. (See Ain-i-Akbarl, trans., p. 494.) He 
wrote in Persian, in Sanskrit, and in the vernacular. In the first 
language he wrote under the name of Tosani. 

108. '^R«T^ T:TtT<) 'Abdu'r Rahlm Khan'hhana 
Nawab, commonly called Khan'khma, the son of Bairam Khan. 
B. 1556.1 

Nir. He was not only learned in Arabic, Persian, Tur"!?;!, etc., but 
also in Sanskrit and Braj Bhakha. He was much loved by /4A'6a/-, 
(See Bloohmann's translation of Am-i-Akbari, p. 334 and fE. He 
wrote under the nom de guerre of Ratiim, ib. p. 338.) His father 
was the famous Blaram Khan, to whom may justly be ascribed 
Humayiin's conquest of India. (See Blochmann, p. 315.) FuU 
particulars of his Life will be found in the places above cited. Sib 
Siggh adds that he was not only a great patron of poets himself, 
but that also he wrote extremely learned (and difficult) clokas in 
Sanskrit, and that his kabittas and dohas in all styles in the vernacular 
are admirable. Best of all are his dohas on morals (silfir). Here 
his Persian works are not dealt with. It will be sufficient to mention 
his best known Persian work, a translation of Babar's Chaghtai 
Memoirs {Waqi'at-i-Babarf). Amongst the poets who attended his 
court may be mentioned Lachh'mi Namyan (N"o. 124), of Mithila. 

109. *H*I T^"^! Maharaj Man Siggh, the KachhVaha of 
Amer. B, 1535. 

He was a great patron of learned men, and used to give Hari Nath 
(No. 114) and other poets a lakh of rupees for a single verse. He was 
son of Bhag'wan Das. (See Am-i-Akbarl, translation, p. 339, where a 
full account of his Hfe is given.) He was a general of Ak'bar's, at first 
on the Kabul frontier, and subsequently in Bihar. He died in the 
Deccan in 1618 A.D., when sixty of his fifteen hundred wives burned 
themselves. The ground on which the Taj at Ag'ra stands belonged 
to Man Siggh. 

' I.e. A.H. 964, which is the date given by Slochmann in passage cited below. 
Sib Siggh gives the date Sambat 1580, i.e. A.D. 1523. 

c3 



38 THE MODEBN LITEHAET HISTOET OP HINDtJSTiN. [§ HO. 

The poets at bis court wrote the Man Ghan'tr', which is a very 
full account of his life and times. (See also Tod's Bajasthan, i, xv, 
and ii, 353 ; Calc. ed. ii, 390.) 

110. ''^^^^ "^^1 Aba'l f-mz alias Fmzl. B. 1547 A.D. 
This is the famous son of Shekh Mubarak, brother of Abu'l.Fazl 

and friend of Ak'bar. He was born A.H. 954 (A.D. 1547). See 
Blochmann's translation of the Am-i-Akharl, p. 490. 

He was an excellent Sanskrit scholar, and is the author of many- 
detached verses {doh'rd) in the vernacular. 

111. 'RJ^T? Fahlm. B. cir. 1550 A.D. 

According to Sib Singh he was a younger brother of Faizl and 
Aba'l f-a?L I can, however, find no mention of him in the Ain-i-Akbari. 
He is the author of many detached verses {doh'ra) in the vernacular. 



112. TT^ ^''FT') Baha.RamDas.oiGop'chal. Fl. 1550 A.D. 

Eag. He was father of SOr Das (No. 37), and was one of the 
court siagers to the emperor Ak'bar. See Ain-i-Akbarl (Blochmann's 
translation), p. 612. According to Badaon'i he came from Lakh'naQ. 
He appears to have been with Bairam Khan during his rebellion, and 
he received once from him one lakh of tdnkahs, empty as BSram's 
treasure chest was. He was first at the court of Is'lem^ Shah, and 
he was looked upon as second only to Tan Sen (No. 60,) the most 
celebrated singer of Ak'bar's time. 

113. TTffT ^TRT, the bard Nar'hari Sahag, entitled 
Mahapatr', of As'n'i, district Fatih'pur. Fl. 1550 A.D. 

? Eag. He attended the court of the emperor Ak'bar, and was 
endowed by him with the village of As'n'i. According to a curious 
tradition, wi.en She/ Shah (A- 1540) defeated Humayun the latter fled 
to the west, leaving a Begam named Choll at Dilll, who was captured 
by the conqueror. Shortly afterwards, Sher Shah being pleased with 
some verses of Nar'hari, told him to ask a boon. The bard accordingly 
asked that Choli Begam might be given to . him, which the long 
granted. Nar'hari carried off Choli to Bandho Ifi'iwa), where, soon 



§ 115.] THE MUGHAI COUET. 39 

after, she gave birth to Ah'baf. The details of' this tradition are 
certainly incorrect, as Afbai- was born at Amar'kot, in Mdr'war. 
He seems, however, to have been bgfriended as a boy by the king of 
Bandho. Cf. No. 24. See Rep. Arch. Sur. Ind. :^vii, 101 ; xxi, 109. 
One of Nar'hari's sons was the poet Hari Nath (No. 114) . Descendants 
of Nar'hari still survive in Banaras and ia BetJ, district Ray BarSlI, 
and are scattered about in other parts of India. The village of As'ni 
is no longer ii^ possession of his family, and his original house has been 
washed away by the Ganges , The ruins of the latter are now sold as 
rubble, and have become the day-haunts of jackals and other impure 
animals. Although no complete work of this poet has survived, 
numerous detached verses by him are etUl quoted. 

Ak'bar gave him the title of Mafidpatr', saying that other bards 
were vessels of virtue {c/un ka pair'), but he was a great vessel 
{mahSpatr'). 

He is possibly the same as a Nar'har'i Das mentioned in the preface 
to Eag. 

114. ^fr •rra" ^f^i the bard Hari Nath, entitled Maha- 
patr', of yfls'n/, district Fatih'pur. Fl, 1587 A.D. 

A celebrated p.oet, and son of Nar'hari (i^o;'ll3), the court poet of 
the emperor Ak'bar^ He made a tour from court to court, receiving rich 
presents for his verses ; thus Mng Neja ' Ram, the Baghel of Bandho 
(Riwa), gave him a lakh of rupees for a siugle doAa, and Man Siijgh 
(No. 109) of Amer gave him two lakhs for two dohas. On his way 
home he met a mendicant of the Naga sect, who recited a dohd to 
him, at which he was so pleased that he gave the beggar all the 
presents he had collected, and returned home empty handed. Arrived 
there he passed the remainder of his Ufe squandering his father's 
savings in a similar manner. 

115. ««V*>tJ ^rf^ ^•'^i^f? the poet and bard Kar'nes, 
or Kamn. B. 155U A.D. 

He used to visit the emperor Ak'bar's court in company with 
the poet Nar'hari (No. 113). He wrote three important works — ^the 
Karnabharan, the Sruti-bhahhanr^nA the BhUp-bhukhan. 

^ This king's name is not mentioned in ike list given in vol. xxi of Bep. Areh. 
Sur. Ind. 

c4 



40 THB MODERN LITBBABY HISIOBY OV EIHDiTaTlN. [§ 116. 

116. TR Xim^ the bard Man Rag, of As'ni, district Fatih'- 
pur. B.15S3A.T>. 

117. ^IT^^i^ ^f^, the poet Jag'dTs. B. 1531 A.D. 

118. ^h^ ^f^-) the poet Jodh. B. 15^5 A.D. 
These three all attended the court of the emperor Ak'bar, 

119. TWT TTT*^T^7 Gagga Par'sad, the Brahman. 
Commonly known as Gajjg Kabi, or the poet Gaijg. B. 1538. 

Sun. He was a Brahman of Ek'ndur, district Itawa, He was a 
bard attached to the court of Ak'bar, He receiTed many presents 
from Blr'bal, Khan'khdna, and others. He is not mentioned in 
Mr. Blochmann's translation of the Ain-i-Akbarl. He is mentioned 
by Captain Price as having written on rhetoric in 1555 {Sindee and 
Sindoostanee Selections, Pref., p. x). Cf. Garcin de Tassy, i, 182. 

120. ^ITT ^f^i the poet Jait B. 15U A-D. 

He attended the court of the emperor Ak'bar. He is possibly the 
same as a Jait Ram Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh, without date, as a 
quietistic (suifni x^) poet. 

121. '^^rT ^f^i the poet Amrit B. 15j^5 A.D. 



122. ^TnTWi JagannaJ. FL (?) 1575 A.D. 

123. W^TTi Jagamag. FL (?) 1575 A.D. 
These three all attended the court of the emperor Ak'bar. 

124. ^^^ TTTT^PT? Lachh'ml Narayan, of Mithfla. 
Fl. 1600 A.D. 

125. TCr^^^f^^ ^if^, the poet Par'siddh, the elder. B. 1533, 

These two attended the court of 'Abdu'r Rahlm Khan'khana 
(No. 108). 



§ 127.] THE MUflHAL COUET. 41 

126. T^^ TRT ^Rf%? tte poet and bard Hoi Ray, of Hol'pur, 
district BardbarjkJ. Fl. 1583 A.D. 

His patron was Eaja Haribans Ray, Diwan of the emperor ftk'bar, 
who gaTe the poet a tract of land, on which he founded the village of 
Hol'pur. Once Tui'sl Das (No. 128) passed through that village and 
gave Hoi Eay his brass vessel or lota, which the latter set up as a 
god and worshipped. It is there still, and is worshipped to this day. 
The village is still owned by Hoi Ray's descendants. Giri Dhar 
(No. 483), mi Kanth (No. 132), Laehhiram (No. 723), and Sant Bali's 
(No. 724), were all natives of Hol'pur. 

127. ^ir«^ fW^ f T^? 'Raia. Mukund Siggh, the Hard, of 
Kota. B. 1578. 

The ally of Shah Jahan (1628—1668). He was himself a poet 
besides being a patron of poets. See Tod ii, 514 ; Calc. ed. ii, 553. 



42 



THB MODEBN LITBRAEY HI8T0ET OF HINDCSTSN. [§ 128. 



CHAPTER VI. 

TUL'SI DAS. 



128. 'fhlTt! "g^*^ ^^? tlie holy master Tul'si Das. 
Fl. 1600 A.D. ; D. 1624 A.D. 

Rag. We now come to the greatest star in th6 firmament of 
medieeval Indian poetry, Tul'si Deis, the author of the weU-known 
vernacular Ramayan (Rag.), which competes in authority with the 
Sanskrit work of Valmihi. 

I much regret that the materials avaUahle are so scanty ; and it is 
the more' tantalising to me that I have received informatipn of a very 
fuU account of his life, entitled Gosai Gharitr', by Bern Madhab Das, 
of Pas'kd, who lived in the poet's companionship. I have never been 
able to obtain a copy of this work, though I have long searched for 
it and I have been compelled to base my account principally on the 
enigmatic verses of the Bhaht Mala aided by the glosses of Priya Das 
and others. The text and literal translation of these will be found 
in the introduction to Mr. Growse's translation of the Ramayan, from- 
which I have freely drawn. 

The importance of Tul'si Das in the history of India cannot be 
overrated. Putting the literary merits of his work out of the 
question, the fact of its universal acceptance by all classes, from 
Bha,gal'f)ur to the Panjab and from the Himalaya to the Nar'mada, 
is surely worthy of note. " The book is in every one's hands,^ from 
the court to the cottage, and is read or heard and a.ppreciated alike 
by every class of the Hindu community, whether high or low, 
rich or poor, young or old." It has been interwoven into the life, 
character, and speech of the Hindu population for more than three 
hundred years, and is not only loved and admired by them for its 
poetic beauty, but is reverenced by them as their scriptures. It is 

1 Mr. Growse (from wlom this quotation is taken) states that the profes- 
Bional Sanskrit Pandits profess to despise Tul'si Das's wort as an unworthy 
concession to the illiterate masses, but this has not been my experience. 



§ 128.] tul'si das. 43 

the Bible of a hundred millions of people, and is looked upon by 
them as as much inspired as the Bible is considered inspired by 
the English clergyman. Pandits may talk of the Vedas and of the 
Upanisads, and a few may even study them; others may say they 
pin their faith on the Puranas : but to the vast majority of the people 
of Hindustan, learned and unlearned alike^ their sole norm of conduct 
is the so-called Tul'sl-krit Ramadan. Jt is indeed fortunate- for 
Hindustan that this is so, for it has saved the country from the 
tantric obscenities of Shaivism. Ramanand was the origiual saviour 
of Upper India from the fate which has befallen Bengal, but Tul'sl 
Das was the great apostle who carried his doctrine east and west and 
made it an abiding faith. 

The religion he preached was a simple and subKme one, — a perfect 
faith ia the name of God. But what is most remarkable ia it, in an 
age of immorality, when the bonds of Hindu society were loosened 
and the Mughal empire being consolidated, was its stem moraKty iu 
every sense of the word. Tul'sl was the great preacher of one's duty 
towards one's neighbour. ValmJki praised Bhamt's sense of duty, 
Laohhman's brotherly affection, and Slta's wifely devotion, but Tui'sl 
taught them as an example. 

So, too, in an age of license no book can be purer ia tone than 
his Rdmdyan. He himself justly exclaims, — "Here are no prurient 
and seductive stories, like snaHs, frogs, and scum on the pure water of 
Ram's legend, and therefore the lustful crow and the greedy crane, if 
they do come, are disappointed." Other Vaishnava waiters, who 
inculcated the worship of Krish'n, too often debased their muse to 
harlotry to attract their hearers ; but Tul'sl Das had a nobler trust in 
his countrymen, and that trust has been amply rewarded. 

Tul'sl Das was a Sar'bariyd Brahman. He was bom early in 
the sixteenth century and died at a good old age in 1624 A.D. As 
the old rhyme says : — 

Samhata soraha swi asl, Asl Gayga he tlra, 
Sawana suTcald sattami, Tulasi tajeu sartra : 
— on the 7th of the Kght half of Grdvana, in Sambat 1680, Tul'sl left 
his body at Asl, on the bank of the Ganges. 

According to the Bhalit Sindhu and the Bn'had Ramayan Mahat- 
mycL his father's name was Atmd Ram, his mother's name was Hulasl, 
and he was born at Hastindpur ; but according to other authorities he 
was bom at Hajlpur, near Chitrakut. The usual tradition is, however, 
that Ral'pur, in the district of fiaflfa, on the banks of the Jamund, has 



44 THE MODERN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDfj8TlN. [§ 128. 

the honour of being his birthplace. As a child he lived at Sdhar'khet 
{vulgo Sord),^ where he was first imbued with devotion to Ram. 
According to Priya Das (see Nos, 51 and 319) his wife first persuaded 
him to exchange an earthly for a divine love, and, incited by her 
remonstrances, he left her and went to Bandras, where he spent 
the greater part of his life, visiting frequently Ajodhya, Mathura, 
Brindaban, Kuruchhettr' Praydg (Allahabad), Purukhottam'purl, 
and other holy places. The only other fact in his life about which 
there is any reasonable certainty (beyond the dates of some of 
his works) is that he was appointed arbitrator in a land dispute 
between two men, Anand Ram and Kanhdy. The deed of arbitra- 
tion in his 'handwriting is still in existence, and is dated Sambat 
1669, or eleven years before his death. A photograph, transliteration, 
and translation of it, are appended to this work A few legends 
mentioned by Pn'yd Das, and given in full by Mr. Gtrowse in the 
introduction to his translation of the Ramayan, may be briefly noted 
here. A grateful ghost introduced him to Hanuman, through whom he 
obtained a vision of Ram and Lachhman. He recognised a murderer, 
who piously uttered the name of Ram, as a saved man, and when 
challenged to prove his statement he did so by making the guilty 
man's offering accepted by Qiva. Some thieves came to rob him, but 
his house was guarded by a mysterious watchman, who was no 
other than Ram himself, and, instead of stealing, the thieves became 
converted and pure of heart. He restored a Brahman to life.* His 
fame reached Dilll, where Shdh Jahdn (1628 — 1658 ; but the poet 
died in 1624) was emperor. The monarch called upon him to 
perform a miracle and to produce the person of Ram, which Tul'sl Das 
refasrng to do, the king threw him into confinement. He was, 
however, speedily compelled to release him, for myriads of monkeys 
having collected about the prison began to demolish it and the 
adjacent buildings. Shah Jahan having set the poet at liberty desired 
him to solicit some favour as a reparation for the indignity he had 
suffered. Tul'sl Das accordingly requested him to quit ancient Dill'i, 
which was the abode of Ram ; and in compliance with this request 
the emperor left it and founded the new city, thence named Shdh- 
Jahdn-dbdd. After this Tul'sl went to Brinddban, where he had 
an interview with Ndbhd Dds (the author of the Bhakt Maid). 
There he strenuously advocated the worship of Ram in preference 

^ Bam., Ba., Doha, 8?. 

* TW following is nearly in Wilson's words. 



§ 128.] tul'si das. 45 

to that of Krish'n, though the latter god appeared in person and 
assured him that there was no difference between the two. Out of 
this tissue of childish legends it is perhaps possible to extract a 
few threads of fact; but till we can find a copy of the Gosal 
Charitr' there does not appear to be much hope of our being able 
'to do so. 

His most famous work is the Ram-Charit-Mdnas, 'the Lake of 
the Gests of Ram,' which he commenced to write in Ajodhya on 
Tuesday, the 9th ChMtra, Sambat 1631 (A.D. 1574-75).» It is often 
incorrectly called the Ramayan, or the Tul'si-knt-Ramayan, or 
(alluding to its metre) the GhaupaT Ramayan, but, according to the 
forty-fourth chmpm oi the Bal Kdnd of the poem, the above is its full 
and proper name. Two copies of this work are said to have existed 
in the poet's own handwriting. One of them, which was kept at 
Raj'pur, has disappeared, aU but the second book. The legend is that 
the whole copy which existed was stolen, and that the thief being 
pursued flung the manuscript into the river Jamuna, whence only the 
second book was rescued. I have photographs of ten pages of this 
copy, and the marks of water are evident. The other copy exists in 
Malihdbad (so Sib Singh ; Growse says in the temple of Sita Earn at 
Bandras), of which only one leaf is missing. I am in possession of an 
accurate literatim copy of so much of the Raj'pur manuscript as exists, 
I have also a printed copy of the poem carefuUy compared with, and 
corrected from, a manuscript in the possession of the Maharaj of 
Banaras, which was written in Sambat 1704 (A.D. 1647), or only 
about twenty-four years after the author's death. 

Little as the Rdm-Charit-Mdnas is known to European students, 
still less is known of the poef s other works. Those which I have 
seen and read are the following : — 

(1) The Gltdball (Rag.) . — ^This is the story of Ram told in the form 
of sonnets adapted for singing. There are several incorrect editions of 
it in print, some of which have commentaries of varying excellence. 

(2) The Kabittdball or Kabitta Ramayan (Rag.). — ^It deals with the 
same subject, and is in the Kabitta metre. 

(3) The Dohdball or Doha Rdmdyan (Rag.). — ^Asits name imports, 
it is in the dohd metre. It is rather a moral work than an epic poem. 
I am not sure that it is not a collection of dohas from his other works 
by a later hand. I have, at any rate, been able to identify many 
of them. 

> Bam. Ba. ch. 02. 



46 THE MODBEN LITBEAET HISTOET OP HINDPSTlK. [§ 128. 

<4) The Chhappai Ramadan. — In the chhappm metre. I have only- 
seen one incorrect and unintelligible manuscript of this work, from 
which an edition of the same character has been printed. 

(5) Sat 5a7(Rag.). — A collection {Sapta Gatika) of seven hundred 
emblematic dohas. 

(6) The Panch Ratan (Rag.), or five jewels. — ^A set of five short 
poems, usually grouped together. They ape (a) the Janak'i Marjgaf, 
(b) the Parbatl Maggaf, (c) the Bairagya Sandlpini, {d) Ram Lata 
kar Nah'chha, (e) the Bar'we Ramayan (Rag.). The firpt two of these 
are songs celebrating the marriages of Sita and Gauri respectively ; 
the third is a didagtic treatise ; the fourth is a song in honour of the 
Nah'chhu or ceremonial nail-paring of Ram at his wedding ; and the 
fiith, a short history of Ram in the Bar'wm metre. 

(7) The Sri Ram Agya, also called the Ram Sagunabalh — A 
collection of seven books of seven chapters, each of seven dohas to 
each chapter. It is a collection of omens connected with the hfe 
of Ram. I suspect it is spurious, and partly made up of extracts 
from the poet's other works. I have met with one very inferior 
commentary upon it. 

(8) The Sarjhat Mochan. — A short didactic work. I have only 
seen it in one vilely-pruited edition. 

(9) The Binag Pattrika (Rag.).— A collection of 279 hymns to 
Ram : much admired, and deservedly so. It has often been printed, 
and has a very fair commentary by Sib Par'kds (No. 643). 

(10) The Hanumdn Bdhuk (Rag.). — A collection of sonnets in 
honour of Hanumdn, who according to tradition gave biTn a vision of 
Ram and Lachhman. 

In addition to these the Sib Birjgh Sarqj mentions the following: — 

(11) Rdm Saldkd (Rag.). 

(12) The Kundaliyd Rdmdyan. 

(13) The Kar'kd Rdmdyan. 

(14) The Rold Rdmdyan. 

(15) The Jhul'nd Rdmdyan, none of which I have seen. The 
last four are named after the metres in which they are written. 

(16) A Krishndbali (Rag.) in the Braj dialect is also printed and 
sold in the bazars. It deals with the life of Krish'n, and I do not 
believe that it is by the Tul'sl Das whom we are now considering. 

Many of tihese have been printed, always most incorrectly, and some 
with commentaries. One of the most highly esteemed commentaries on 
the Rdm-Gharit-Mdnas is that of Rdm Gharan Das. The best on the 



Jom-nal, As. Soc, Beng., Vol. LVII, Part I, Extra-Number, 1888. 



Plate II. 




rn^^ilw ,, . ^. 



m^^ 




•^fk- 



s^MfiC^- 




















m^* 






^Tb^y ■■:■ - **r -0^. 



\mm 



'"^m^hLi^ 

























^^ \ '■ •■far .''-j aAamt i '•)■■■■ 















.ni ' Wt'^ i 




■S ■ - 




':S^*W. 






Bdlittai^ Tim Jaffi & illiert, Tiea. 



wjei 



REDUCED FACSIMILE OF TEN PAGES OF THE KAJ'PUR RAMAYAN. 



47 



§ 128.] TUl'si DAS. 

Gltaball. the Kabittaball. and the Sat Sal ai-e by Bmj'naih. Ram 
Charan Das's commentary has been printed by Nawal Eishor, of Lakh'- 
nau, but is now out of print. The other commentaries can be bought 
in any Indian bazar. All the commentators have a great, tendency 
to avoid difficulties,' and to givie to simple passages mystical meanings, 
which Tul'sI Das never intended. They are unfortunately utterly 
wanting in the critical faculty. Though there are abundant materials 
for obtaining an iabsolutely accurate text of at least the Eam-Charit- 
Manas, the commentators have never dreamed of referring to them, 
but have preferred trusting their inner consciousness. As an extreme 
example, I may mention one who drew up a scheme of the number 
of verses which each section of each canto ought to have, in a numer- 
ically decreasing order, after the pattern of the steps of a bathing ghat, 
because the poem is called a lake (manas). Nothing could be prettier 
than this idea ; and so he hacked and hewed his unfortunate text 
to fit this Procrustean bed, and then published it with considerable 
success. Ifnever occurred to him or his readers to see if this was 
what Tul'sI Das had written ; and if they had done so, the ludicrous 
nature of his theory would have been evident at the first glance. 

Eegarding Tul'sI Das's style, he was a master of all varieties, from 
the simplest flowing narration to the most complex emblematic verses. 
He wrote always in the old Bais'warl dialect, and, once the peculiarities 
of this are mastered, his Ram-Charit-M anas is delightful and easy 
reading. In his Gltaball and Kabittaball he is more involved, but stiU 
readable with pleasure ; in his Dohaball he is sententious ; and in his 
Sat Sal as difficult and obscure as any admirer of the Nalodaya could 
wish. The Sat Sal is a veritable tour de force, and I am glad that 
-this, almost the oldest specimen' of a kind of writing which was 
brought to perfection fifty years later by Biharl Lai (No. 196) (the 
mine of commentators), is being edited with a commentary by 
Professor Blhari Lai Chaube ia. the .Bibliotheca Indica.^ The Binay 
Pattriha is again ia another style. It is a__book of prayers, often 
of the most elevated description, but its difficulties are very unsatisr 
factorily elucidated by either of the two commentaries on it which 
I have seen. 

' It was written (Sat. i. 21) in Sambat 1642, i.e. A.D. 1585. Bidyapatl's 
emblematic verses were written about A.D. 1400. 

^ Since this was written an edition of this work, with a commentary by 
BSj'nath, the editor of the' GitSbali and Kabittaball, has been published in 
1886 by Nawal Kishor, of Lakh'nau. 



48 THE MODEEN MTEEAET HISTOEY OP HINDU STlN. [§ 128. 

Regarding his poetic powers I think it is difficult to speak too 
highly. His characters live and move with all the dignity of a 
heroic age. Das'rath, the man of noble resolves which fate had 
doomed to be unfruitful; Ram, of lofty and unbending rectitude, 
well contrasted with his loving but impetuous brother Lachhman ; Sita, 
the 'perfect woman nobly planned;' and Raban, like Das'rath, predes- 
tined to failure, but fighting with aU his demon force against his fate, 
almost like Satan in Milton's epic, the protagonist of haK the poem, — 
aU these are as vividly before my mind's eye as I write as any 
character in the whole range of English literature. Then what a 
tender devotion there is in Bharat's character, which by its sheer truth 
overcomes the false schemes of his mother KaSkeyi and her maid. 
His vQlaLns, too, are not one black picture. Each has his own 
character, and none Is without his redeeming virtue. 

For sustained and varied dramatic interest I suppose the Rairi- 
Charit-Manas is his best work ; but there are fine passages in his 
other poems. What can be more charming than the description of 
Ram's babyhood and boyhood in the commencement of the Gitaball, 
or the dainty touches of colour given to the conversation of the, 
vfllage women as they watch Ram, Lachhman, and Sita treading 
their dreary way during their exile. Again, what mastery of words 
is there in the Sundar Kdnd of the Kabittaball throughout the 
description of the burning of Lagka. We can hear the crackhng 
of the flames and the crash of the falliag houses, the turmoil and 
confusion amongst the nien, and the cries of the helpless women as 
they shriek for water. 

StiU even Tul'sl Das was not able to rise altogether superior to the 
dense cloud which fashion had imposed upon Indian poetry. I must 
confess that his battle descriptions are often luridly repulsive, and 
sometimes overstep the border which separates the tragic from the 
ludicrous. To Native minds these are the finest passages which he has 
written ; but I do not thjnk that the cultivated European ean ever find 
much pleasure In them. He was hampered, too, by the necessity of 
j^epresenting Ram as an incarnation of Vishnu, which leads him into 
what, although only meet adoration to the pious believer, sounds to us 
Mlechchhas as too gross hyperbole. 

The reasons for the excellence of this great poet's work are not 
far to seek. The most important of all was the great modesty of the 
man. The preface to the Rdm-Charit-Manas is one of the most remark- 
able portions of the book. Kdlidasa may begin his Raghuoarhoa with 



§ 128.] ■" tcl'si das. 49 

a comparison of himself to a dwarf, and of his powers over language 
to a stiffi on the boundless ocean ; but from under this modest state- 
ment there gleams a consciousness of his own superiority. His modesty 
is evidently a mock one, and the poet is really saying to himself all the 
time, ' I ahaU soon show my readers how learned I am, and what a 
command I have over aU the nine rasas' But (and this is another 
reason for his superiority) Tul'sl never wrote a line in which he did 
not himself believe heart and soul. He was fuU of his theme, the 
glory and love of his master ; and so immeasurably above him did 
that glory and that love seem, that he was full of humility with regard 
to hiinseK. As he expresses it : — ' My intellect is beggarly, while my 
ambition is imperial. May good people all pardon my presumption 
and listen to my childish babbling, as a father and mother deKght to 
hear the Uspiag prattle of their Kttle one.' Ka/iddsa took Ram as a 
peg on which to hang his graceful verses ; but Tul'sl Das wove wreaths 
of imperishable fragrance, and humbly laid them at the feet of the god 
whom he adored. ' One other poiat I would urge, which has, I believe, 
escaped the notice of even Native students of our author. He is, perhaps, 
the only great Indian poet who took his similes direct from the book 
of Nature and not from his predecessors. He was so close an observer 
of concrete things, that many of his truest and simplest passages are 
unintelligible to his commentators, who were nothing but learned 
men and who went through the beautiful world around them with 
eyes blinded by their books. Shakespeare, we know, spoke of the white 
reflection of the willbw leaves in the water, and thus puzzled aU his 
editors, who said in their wisdom that willow leaves were green. It 
was, I think, Charles Lamb who thought of going to the river and 
seeing if Shakespeare was right, and who thereby swept away a cloud 
of proposed emendations.'' So, too, it has been reserved for Mr. Growse 
to point out that Tul'si Das knew far more about Nature than his 
commentators do. 

It remains now to point out the necessity there is of printing a 
correct text of this poet's works. At present the printed bazar editions 



» Babu Jawahir Mall, of Daud'nagar, in the district of Gaya, informs me 
that he knew an old man whose ancestor knew the poet, and that Tul'si Das 
told the ancestor that he had never written a line of poetry into which either 
the letter ^ »- or the letter ser m (the first and last letters of the word Earn) 
did not come. This (if found to be true) is a valuable test for deciding whether 
doubtful passages are genuine or not. 

' The tinder surface, and therefore the reflection, of the willow -leaf is white. 

D 



50 THE MODEBN LITEBAEY HI8T0ET OP HINDOSTiN. [§ 128. 

available are very deficient. The best of them is that by Pandit 
Ram Jasan ; but he, like all the other editors, has printed only a 
modernised copy of the textus receptus. I have carefully compared the 
latter with the original text, and am in a position to state that 
anything more misleading can hardly be imagined, Tul'si Das wrote 
phonetically the words as they were pronounced at his time, and 
in an archaic dialect. In the printed books the dialect is altered to the 
standard of the modem Hindi, and the spelling improved (?)^ according 
to the rules of Panini. Examples of the modernisation of the dialect 
are the following : — ^Tul'si Das uses the short u as the termination of 
the nominative singular, leaving the crude base in a for its legitimate 
purposes in composition, thus following the rules of the Apabhram9a 
Prakrit. Thus he wrote kapi-kafaku, an army of monkeys ; prabala- 
moha-dalu, a powerful band of delusions ; and eo on : but all the 
modern editions give -kanaka and -dala, according to the modem 
pronunciation. So also modem editors write prasada, 'favour,' for 
the original pasdu ; hhiyaygim, 'snake,' for original bhuaygini; 
yajnavalkya for jagdbaliku ; bandMi, ' I revere,' for bandau ; bhakti, 
'faith,' for bhagati, and so on. Examples can be gathered in 
almost every Kne. Instances of alteration of spelling are equally 
numerous. One example must suffice. Tul'si Das evidently pro- 
nounced the name of Eam's father as Dasaratim, for that is the 
way he wrote it ; but modern editors write the Sanskrit Dagaratha, 
whidi is not even the way it is pronounced nowadays. But there 
are other and greater errors than these in the texius receptus. 
It abounds in lacunas. Whole pages are sometimes omitted, and 
minor changes occur in every page. In short, opening the printed 
edition at random, I count no fewer than thirty-five variations 
from tne original, some most important ones, in one page of twenty- 
three lines. I am glad, therefore, to be able to record that aft 
enterprising publisher of Patna (Babu Ram Din Siggh, of the 
Khadg Bilafl Press,, Bagkipur) is now engaged in publishing a text 
oi the Eam-Charit-Manas founded on the old manuscripts I have 
already mentioned. 

In the Addendum to this chapter I give samples of the true text 
of the Eam-Charit-Manas, founded on the Banaras and Eaj'pur 
manuscripts, abeady alluded to, together with photographs of the 
originals. The footnotes show the readings of the Uxfus receptus. 
I am indebted to the kindness of Eaja Siva Prasad, C.S.I., for 
these photographs. 



Journal, As. Soc, Bengal, Vol. LVII, Pt. I, Extra-N timber, 1888. 



I'late HI. 




























L>-y>i'.a=r^'r' 







asa 



^^1 













''^-_ ?-^% **.-'^ 



Cichtdiuci von J&ffe 4. Albert, WieE. 



PHOTOGRAPH OF A DEED OF ARBITRATION IN THE 
HANDWRITING OF TUL'SI DAS. 



EEDUCED FACSIMILE OF THREE PAGES OF THE 
BANARAS RAMAYAN. 



§ 133.] ADDENDA TO CHAPTER VI. 51 

129. f'TCr^ f'lT^'T ^T^, tte master Nipat Nirahjan. 
B. 1593 A.p. 

Nir, According to Sib Siggh tHs master ranks as a. holy man with 
Tul'si Das, Besides hundreds of short poems which have not been 
collected, he is the author of the Sunt Sar'sl and the Nirafijan 
SarjgmH. 

130. ^nt "m"^ ^T^, Beni Madhab Das, of Pas'ha. 
district GQda- Fl. 1600 A.D. 

He was a disciple of the holy master Tul'si Das, and was his 
constant companion. He wrote a biography of him entitled Gosal 
Charitr' (quoted in this work as ' Go.') and died in 16^2 A.D. 

131. f^lf^ ^f%, the poet Nidhi. Fl. 1600. 
Go., (?) Rag. 

132. «fNl ^^ f^19T? NU Kmth Misar, of the DOab. 
Fl. 1600 A.D. 

Go., Nir, 

133. •TT^ ^T ^f^, the poet NUa Dhar. Fl, 1600 A-D. 
Go., Nir. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER VI. 



I.— THE TEXT OF TUL'SI DlS. 

In order to show how the text of Tul'si Das's works has been altered in 
the course of centuries, the folloyring extracts from the Eamayan' are given, 
exactly as jiaken from the oldest manuscripts in existence. In the footnotes 
are given the variations of the best printed editions. The manuscripts used 
are those referred to in Chapter VI, namely the Eaj'pur copy of the Ajodhya 
Kand, said to be in the poet's own handwriting, and the Banaras copy, made 
only twenty-four years after his death. 

d2' 



52 THE MODEEN LITEEABT HI8T0ET OF HINDtJSTiN. [§§ 128-133 ADD. 

From the Bal Kdnd (Banaras MS.). 
(The footnotes show the variations of the textus reeeptus.) 



ChwupSz. 
K6 Shiwa^ sama Eamahi^ priya bhai | 
Doha, 

Prathamahi mS kahi SHwa-charita 
£ujha maramu tumhara ] ^ 

Suchi sewaka tumha'' Bama ke 
Eahita samasta bikara || 104 ||^ 



Mw? jana tumhara gnna sila | 
Eah& snnahu' abaEaghu-pati-lila | 



Sunu muni aju samagamatorS' 

Kahi na jai' jasa sukhu'° mana 

m6r§ II' 

Sama-charita ati amita mnnlsa | 

Kahi na sakahi'^ sata koti ahisa || 

Tadapi jatha shruta" kahw bakhani | 

Sumiri Gira-pati Prabhu dhanu- 

pani i 

Sarada daru-nari-aama, Swami | 
Eamu" sutra-dhara antara-jami |1 . 

Jehi para kripa karahi janu" jani | 
Kabi-ura ajira naohawahi" BanI {| 



Feom the Ajodhya, Kdnd (Bafpur MS.). 



Chmpal. 

(Dehi ku)chalihi koti ka'' gari |I 
Jarahi bikhama jara'^lehi usasa | 

KaTfani" Kama birni jiwana-asa || 
Bipula™ biyoga praja aknlani | 

Janu^' jala-chara-gana sukhata pani | 
Ati bikhilda-basa loga logaP^ | 

Gaye matu pahf ' Eamu^* gosa^s |1 



Mukhu°° prasanna chita chl3-guna 

chau I 

Mita sochu''' jani rakhai^' rau || 
Doha. 

Nawa gayandu Eaghu-blra-manu™ 

Eaju^" alana samana | 
Chhuta jani bana-gawanu^' suni 

Ura-anandu'2 adhikana |1 51^ || 



1 Siwa. 

"EamahJ. ^ 

* Prathama kahe maa Siwa-oharita 
bujha marama tumhara | 

< tuma. 

5 112. 

' maa. 

1 sunahu. 

' tore. 

jaya. 
>» sukha. 
" more. 
" sakah!. 
1' smta. 
'* Eama. _ 
15 karahi jana. 

" nachawahi. One edition qf feast, 
ree. giim ani for bani. 



hu. 

jwara. 

kawana. 

Bikula. 

Jimi. 

lugal. 

paJha. 

Eama. 

gnsai. 

Mukha, 

ihsa. socha. 

rakhahi. 

gayanda Eaghu-bansa-mani. 

Eaja. 

gawana. 

anada. 

60. 



§§ 128-133 ADD .J addenda to chapter vi. 



53 



Chmupal, 

Eaghu-tula-tilaka jori dou' hatlia | 
Mudita matu-pada nayeu* matha || 

DinhP aslsa lai ura linlie | 

BKukhana basana nichhawari kiuhe | 

Bara bara mukha chumbati'' mata | 
Nayana neia-jalu* pulakita gata I| 

Goda rakbi puni hridaya lagae' | 

Sbrawata' prema-rasa payada 

suhae' | 
Premu pramodu' na kaobbu kahi jai | 

!Rai)ka Dbanada-padawl janu pai || 
Sadara suadara badanu'" nihari | 

Boli madhura bacbana mabatari || 
' Eababu, Tata, janani bali-barl j 

Kababi lagana muda-maggala-kari |{ 
Snkrita-sila-sukba-slwa" suhai | 

Janama-labba kai awadbi'^ agbai || 

Doha. 

Jebi cbabata nara-nari saba 

Ati arata ebi'^ bbati | 
Jimi ohataka-cbataM trikhita" 

Bristi sarada-ritu'* swati || 62'' || 

Cha/upal, 
Tata jail bali begi nabahu'? ( 

Jo mana bbawa madbura kacbbu 

kbabfi II 
Pitu samipa taba jayebu bhSa j 
Ebai badi*' bara jai bali mSa' || 



jVIatu-baobana suni" ati anukula | 

Janu saneha-sura taru ke phula || 
Sukba-makaranda-bbare Sbriya^o-mula j 

Nirakhi Eama-manu bbawaru'" na 

bhula II 
Dbarama^'^-dbiirlna dbarama^'gatijaiu | 

Kabeu matu sana ati mridu bani || 
' Pita dlnba mobi kanana-raju | 

Jaba saba bbati mora bada^* kaju || 
Ayesu debi^' mudita mana mata | 

Jebi"' muda-mai)gala kanana jata jj 
Jani saneba-basa darapasi bhorS"' | 

5uadu amba"' anugraba tori^' |j 

Doha, 

Barakba'" cbari-dasa bipina basi 
Kari pitu-baobana-pramana j 

5i'' paya puni dekbibaH 
Manu'^ jani karasi malana' |[ 53'' || 

ChmpSi. 

Baebanabinita madbura Eagbubarake | 

Sara sama lage matu-ura kara ke || 
Sabami sukhi suni sitali'^ bani j 

Jimi jawasa pare'* pawasa-panT || 
Kabi na jai kacbbu bridaya-bikbadu | 

Manabu mrigi suni'^ kehari-nadu || 
ITayana sajala,'' tana'^ tbara tbara 

kapi'9 I 

Majabi kbal mina janu mapi'*" || 



^ dwaS. 
" cayati. 
' Dinha. 
■* cbumati. 



* lagai. 

^ Srawata. 

^ subai. 

° Frema-pramoda. 
'" badana. 
'' siwa. 

'^ J anma-labba kabi {or labi) awadba. 
'5 ibi. 

'■* cbataki-cbataka trisita. 
*^ ritu. 
i«51. 

'' anbabu. 
'' bari. 

" Here ends leaf 28 of the MS. 
i" Shri. 



^ Eama-mana bbawara. 

22 Dbarma. 

^ dbarma. 

2* bara. 

^ Ayasu debu. 

2« Jebi. 

2' bbore. 

2* Jnada matu. 

29 tore. 

s» Barkha. 

" Jja. 

'^ Mana. 

^ 52. 

'* sitala. 

'' para. 

^ janu sahame kari. 

^ SaUla. 

^ tanu. 

'' kapi. 

*" Maja manabu mina kaba brani. 

d3 



54 IHB MODEEH LITBEAET HISTOEY OF HIND^STlN. [§§ 128-133 ADD. 



Dhari dhiraju' suta-badanu' nihari ] 

Gadagada'-bacliana kahati mahatari |1 
Tata pitahi tumha^ prana-piare | 

Dekhi mudita nita charita tumliare || 
Eaju' dena kahu^ subha dina sadha | 

Eabett jaua bana kehi aparadha |] 
Tata sunawaLn moM nidanu ] 

K6 diua-kara-!kvila bLayeu'' krisanu ' || 

Dolia. 
NirakM Bama-rakba sachiwa-snta. 

KSraim^ kabeu bujh.a!i | 
Snni prasaggu' rahi muka iimi'° 

Dasa barani nahi" jai || 64'^ || 

CliSJapai, 

Bakbi na sakai""' na kahi saka jahu | 

DioliS bhati ura daruna dabu || 
Likhata sudba-kara, ga'^ likbi Itabu | 

Bidbi-gati bama sada saba kabu {| 
Dbarama'^ -saneba ubbaya mati gberi i 

Bbu gati sSpa cbbucbbundari kerl || 
Rakb^ sutabi kar^" anurodbu | 

Dbaramu" jai aru bandbu-birodbu || 
Eab^ jana bana tail badi" bani | 

Sagkatasocba bibasa" bbai rani || 
BabTiri sumnihi tiya-dbaramu''" sayani | 

Eamu Bbaratu doil^' suta-sama jaal 



Sarala subbaii^ Rama-iiiabatarl | 
Boll baobana dbira dbari bbarl || 

' Tata, jafl bali, kinbebu^' nika | 
Pitu-ayesu'* saba dbarama>ka^* ^a!^ 

t)ohd. 

Eaju^'' dena kabi,=' dinba bantf ' 

Mobi na so''' dukba-lesa I, 
Tumba'" binu Bharatabi bbu-patihi 

Prajabi pracbanda kalesa H 55'" || 

ChSJwgal. 
ZwP kewalapitu-ayesu^^ tata | 

Tati jeni jabu jani badi mata*^ |1 
J^^ pitxi-matu kaben'* bana jana I 

Ta3 kanana sata Awadba samana || 
Pitu bana dewa, matu bana-dewi | 

Ebaga mriga obarana-saroruba-sewi || 
Antabu nobita nripabi bana-basu | 

Baya biloki biya boi'" barasu || 
Bada'' bbagi banu,'' Awadba abbagi | 

J6^° Eagbu-bansa-tilaka tnmba" 

tyagi II 
J^^ suta kah^ sagga mobi lebu | 

Tiunbare bridaya boi sandebu || 
Puta*' parama ptiya tumba** saba-bi ke j 

Prana prana ke jiwana ji ke || 
Te tuinha* kababu matu bana jat ] 

MS'" suni bacbana blatbi paobhita€ | 



1 dbiraja. 


^^ ayasu-. 


= badana. 


^^ dbarma ke. 


' Sadgada. 


2« Baja. 


^ tuma. 


■^1 kaba. 


' Eaja. 


^ bana. 


6 kab-a. 


2' mnhi na socba. 


7 bbaySa. 


3» Tuma. 


' karana. 


"54. 


' prasagga. 


'2Jaa. 


'" muka-gati. 


^ ayasTi. 


" nabi. 


^ jai ball mata 


«53. 


^Jaa. 


13 sakahi. Here ends leftrf 29 of MS. 


^ kabM. 


" likbi ga. 


3' bota. 


'' Dbarma. 


^ Bara. 


" boi. 


^' bana. 


" Dbanna. 


^»JaJa. 


w bari. 


*' tuma. 


>» bikala. 


«Jan. 


«» dbanna. 


^ Putra. 


"' Eama Bbarata dwau. 


** tuma. 


" subhawa. 


« Tuma. 


" kinbeii 


«MSi. 



§§ 128-133 ADD.]^ addenda to chastbb vi. 



55 



Doha. 

Ehi' bichari naM^ karatl hatha. 

Jhutha sanehu badhaa' | 
Maui matu kara'' nata ball 

Surati bisari jani jaa || 66' || 

Chcm^&i. 

Dewa pitara^ saba tumhahi gosal' \ ' 

Bakhahu' palaka nayana ki nai {| 

Awadhi ambu, priya parijana rnlna 1 

Tumha^ kariuia-"kara dharama'- 

dhurina || 

Asa bichaxi so'i karahu upai | 

Saba-hi jiata jehi" bhStahu ai || 
Jahu snkhena banahi ball ja3 | 

Earl ana&a jana parijana gal {{ 
Saba kara aju sukrita phala bita | 

Bhayeu karalu kalu" biparita ' || 
Bahu-bidhi bilapi charana lapatani 1 

Paiama abhagini apuhi jani || 
Daruna dusaha dahu'^ ura byapa | 

Sarani na jati" bilapa-kalapa {| 

Eama uthai matu ura lai** | 

Kahi mridu bachana bahuri 

samujhaP' 

Doha. 

Samaehara tehi samaya sun 

Siya uthi aknlai | 
Jai sasu-pada-kamala-juga'* 

Bandi bEthi sirui? naj || 5718 || 

ChSiupaz. 

Dinhi" asisa sasu mrida bam | 
Ati sukumari dekhi akulani 1| 



Bmthi namita mukha Bochati Sita | 
Eupa-raSi pati-prema-piinita || 

'Chalana chahatabanajiwana-nathu™ | 
Kehi sukriii^' sana hoihi sathu^^ yi 

Ki tanu-prana, ki kewala prana | 

Bidhi karatabu^' kachhu jai^* na 

jana' || 
Charu charana-nakha lekhati dharani | 

Nupura mukhara madhura kabi 

barani || 
Manahu prema-basa binati karahi | 
' Hamahi Siya-pada jani 

pariharahi ' || 
Manju bUochana mochati bar! | 
Boll dekhi^* Eama-mahatarl || 
' Tata sunahu Siya ati sukumari | 
Sasu sasura parijanahi piari^^ || 

Doha 

Pita Janaka bhupala-mani 
Sasura bhanu-kula-bhanu | 

Pati rawi-knla-kSrawa-bipina 
Bidhu guua-rupa-nidhauu |'| SS''' || 

Chmipai. 

MS puni putra-badhu priya pai | 

Eupa-rasi guna-sila suhai || 
Nayana-putari kari"^ priti badhai^ | 

Eakheu prana Janakihi lai || 
Kalapa-beli'" jimi bahu bidhi lali | 

Siohi saneha-salila pratipali || 
Phiilata phalata bhayeu'' bidhi bama | 

Jani na jai kaha parinama || 
Palaga-pitha taji godai hidora | 

Siya na dinba^' pagu awani kathora 



1 Yaha. 

= nahi. Here ends leaf 30 of the MS. 

' saneha baihai. 

<ke. 

«55. 

* tumahi gusa!. 

? Eakhahu. 

8 Tuma. 

9 dharma. 

w jiyata jehi. 

'' Bhaye kaTala kala. 

12 daha. 

" jai. 

" lawa. 

>* bahuta samujhaw3. 

" paga-kamala-yuga. 



'' sira. 

•8 56. 

'9 Dinha. 

2» natha. 

5' Kawana sukrita. 

2' satha. 

'^ karataba. 

" jata. 

== Here ends leaf 31 of MS 

2' parijanahi pyari 

^ iwa. 
2' barhai. 
2" Ealpa-boli. 
" bhaye. 
^ dina. 



d4 



56 



THE MODEBN LITBBART HISTOET OF HINDUSTIN. [§§ 128-133 ADD. 



Jiana-muri' jimi jogawata^ rahaS' | 
Dipa-bati nahi'' tarana kahau' || 

Soi* Siya clialana chaliati bana satba | 
Jyesu' taha^ hoi Eaghu-natha || 

Chanda'-kirana-rasa-rasika chakori | 
Eawi-rukba nayana sakH kimi jori 

DoTiS. 

Eari keliari nisi-ohara cbaraliT 

Dusta jantu bana bburi ] 
Bikha-batika ki soba suta 

Subhaga sajiwanii" muri || 69" || 



ChampSl. 

Bana hita kola kirata-kisori | 
BacLI Birancbi bikhaya-snkta''- 

bbori II 

Pabana-krimi jimi kathina sxibbau | 

Tinabi kalesn'' na kanana kau ||. 
Kia tapasa-tiya kanana jogu" I 

Jinha" tapa-betu taja saba bbogn t| 
Siya bana basihi tata kebi bhati" | 

Chitra-likhita kapi dekhi derati || 
Snra-sara-subbaga-bana.ia-bana-chari | 

Pabara-jogn''' ki hansa-kumaii ' 



Conclusion of the Kis'kindha Kavd^ (Banaras MS.). 
(The two following extracts are giren for the sake of the colophons.) 



{3d sunata gawata kabata sa)nmihata 
parama pada nara pawai ] 
Eaghii-bira-pada-pathoia madhn-kara 
Dasa Tulasi gawai |] 

Doha. 

Bhawa-bhekha-ja-Baghn-natha-jasu''"' 

Snnahi je nara aru nan j 
Tinha kara sakala manoratha 

Siddha karahi Trisira- W || 



Soratha. 
Nilotpala tana^' syama 

E!ama koti sobha adhika | 
Snnia^ tasu guna-grama 

Jasu nama agha-khaga-badhika || 30°* 
Iti ^ri^-Eama-charita-manase saka- 
la-kali-kalusa-vidhvainsane, Visuddha 
(*ic)-santosa-sampadini°'-nama chatur- 
thas sopana!^ samapta]hL || Qubham 
astn^' II Sambat 1704 samae, FaSkha- 
shudi-dwarasi^' likhitam Eaghutivari 
£asyain || 



1 Jiwana-muri. 






' jugawati. 






» raheft. 






* nahi. 






» kaheS. 






«S6. 






' lyasn. 






' kaha. 






» Chandra. 






'° sajiwana. 






"58. 






" rasa. 






" Tinahi kalesa. 






" yogn. 






's Jina. 






» bhSH. 






w yoga. 






18 These are the 


names of the i;ands 


as given in the printed edition. 


Tulsi- 


Das, it will be seen. 


gave other 


uames. 



" Passages in the Chliand metres 
are always in highly Sanskritized style, 
and hence are seldom altered in the 
printed texts. 

20 .• 



"^ Tripura-'ri. 

"^ tanu. 

^ Suniya. 

"* System of numbering different 
from that of the printed text, which 
here has 2. 

^ In Sanskrit passages, I transliter- 
ate ^ by Q ; in Gaudian passages, 
by Sh._ _ 

"^ yimala-vairagya-sampadano. ' 

*' Cubham astu | Siddhir astu. 

^ A very interesting form. This 
date is of course omitted in the printed 
editions. 



§§ 128-133 ADD.] addenda to ohaptee vi. 



57 



Conclusion of the Layka Kand (Sanaras MS.). 



• Chhand. 

(Mati-manda Tulasi) Dasa so Prabhu 
moha-basa bisamyo || 
Yaha Eawana-'ri-oiiaritra pawana 
Itama-pada-rati-prada sada | 

Kama-"di-liara bigyana-kara sura- 
siddha-moni gawahi muda || 

Doha. 

Samara-bijaya Baghu-mani-cbarita> 

Sunahi je sada sujana' | 
Bijaya bibeka bibhuti nita 

Tinhah? dehi Ehagawana || 



Taha E!ali-kala inala-"yatana 
Mana kari dekhu bicbara | 
Sbri Eagbu-nayaka-namu^ taji 
NaM kaohbu ana adhara= || 120« |1 
Iti ^ri-Eama-charita-manase sakala 
kali-kaluaa-Tidhvamsane, Vimala-vij- 
nana-sampadim'-iiama sastbas sopanab 
samaptab^ |{ (Jubbam astii ||- Samba 
1704 samae jj Magba-sudi pratipad 
likbitam Eagbutivari Easyam (?) Ldla- 
{r)ka samipe (sic) \\ ^ri-E?im6 jayati || 
^ri-Vifva-natbaya namab || ^ri-Vin- 
du-madbarae (P sic) nama^ || 



II.— OTHEE VEESIONS OF THE ElMA LEGEND. 

In addition to the various poems of Tul'si Das, a number of works have 
been written by later authors dealing with the same subject. Tie following 
are those with which I am acquainted : — 

(1) A Eamayan was written by 
ChintamanI Tripathi (143). 

(2) Man Das (172) wrote the Rdm 
ChanV, founded on the Ramayana of 
Valmlki and on the Hanuman Nataha. 

(3) Bhag'want Ray, the Khlohl 
(333), wrote a Eamayan. 

(4) Sambhu Nath (357) wrote a 
Eamayan entitled Ram Bilas. 

(5) Gufab Siggh (486) wrote a 
Vedantio Eamayan (whatever that 
may mean). 

(6) Gaj'raJ Upadhya (685) wrote a 
Eamayan. 

(7) Sahaj Ram (592) wrote a 



Eamayan, founded on the Raghu- 
uaiflca and on the Hanuman Nataha. 

(8) Safjkar Tripathi (613) wrote 
a Eamayan in Kabitta metres. 

(9) Iswarl Pat'sad Tripathi {675) 
wrote a translation of the Ramayana 
of Valmlki. 

(10) Chandr'Jha (686) wrote a 
a Eamayan in the Maithili dialect. 

(11) Janakl Par'aad [689) wrote 
a Ram-nibas Ramayan. 

• (12) Samar Siggh (711) wrote a 
Ramayan, 

(13) Puran Chand Jath (829a) 
wrote the Ram Rahasya Ramayan. 



The above list does not include the many works dealing with one or more 
detached episodes of the Eama legend ; nor does it include the countless 
Eamayans in prose and verse which have been issued of late years. Of these 
the best in language and style is the (14) Ram Katha of the late Pandit 
Chhdta Ram Tiwarl (No. 706). 



' Samara-bijaya Eaghubira ke. 

* Charita je sunahi snjana. 
= Tinahj. 

* -natha-uama. 



^ Nahi na na. 

6 118. 

' vimala-jfiana-sampadano. 

' Printed editions omit all after this. 



58 THE MODERN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDtJSTjN. [§ 134. 



CHAPTER VII. 



THE AES POETICA. [1580—1693 A.D.] 

The end of the sixteenth century and the whole of the seyenteenth 
century, a period corresponding closely with the supremacy of the 
Mughal empire, presents a remarkable array of poetic talent. Within 
this period the most prominent figures not already dealt with are 
Kesab Das, Chintamani Tripathl, and Biharl La/. Kesab and 
Chintamani are the most salient examples of a school founded by the 
first of these authors which devoted itseH to the technical development 
of the art of poetry ; and this group will alone be considered in the 
present chapter. The next chapter will deal with the remaining poets 
of the seventeenth century. 

134. ^^R" ^W ^'TT^a f'r''5T7 Kesab Das Sanadfiya 
Misar. of Bundel'khand. Fl. 1580 A.D. 

Nir., Sun., Sat., Eag. His original home was in Teh'rJ, but he 
visited king Madhuhar Shah, of Ur'chha, and received much honour 
from him. Subsequently king Indar'jlt (No. 136), Madhukar's son, 
endowed him with twenty-one villages, whereupon he and his family 
finally settled m. Ur'chha. He was the first poet to describe in the 
vernacular (in his Kabi-priyS (Rag.), a work which subsequent writers- 
have frequently imitated), the ten constituents {^TW) of a poem. His 
first important work was the Blgyan Gita, which he wrote under the 
name of Madhuhar Shah. Then he wrote the Kabi-priya for Par'bln 
Ral Patur'i (Ifo. 137). This was followed by the Ram-chandriha 
(Rag.) under the name of king Indar'jlt. He also wrote the learned 
Rasik-priya (Rag.) on composition (vif^W) and the Ram-alagkrit- 
manjari on prosody. 

Commentaries on the Kabl-priya were written by (1) Safdar 
(571), (2) Narayan Ray (572), (3) PhaPka Raw (678), (4) Hari 
(761); on the Ram-ehandrika by (1) JanakI Par'sad (577), (2) 
Dhani Ram (578) ; and on the Rasik-priya by (1) Sarati Misar (326), 
(2) Ya'qab Khan (394), (3) Isuf Khan (421), (4) Sat'dar (571), (5) 
Hari Jan (575). 



§ 137.] ~ THE AES POETIOA. [1580—1692 A.D.] 59 

When the emperor Ak'bar fined king Indar'jit ten million rupees 
for disobedience and revolt because Par bin Ral Paturl did not appear 
in his (Ak'bar's) court, KSsab Das had a secret audience with Eaja 
Blr'bal (No. 106), the emperor's minister, and recited the well-known 
lines ending f^t& *<,di<1 %% ^l^m^ (given in Sib Siygh Saroj, 
pp. 31, 32). Raja Bir'bal was much pleased with them and got the 
fine remitted, but Par'bin Rai Paturi had nevertheless to appear in 
court. 

135. ^f^*T^* '^TT^TS fil^T? Balibhadr' Sanadhya 
Misar, of Ur'chha. in Bundel'khaM. M. 1580 A.D. 

He was brother of Kesab Dots. His Nakh'sihh (see note to No. 87) 
is admitted by all poets to be a standard work. He also wrote a 
commentary on the Bhagavata Purana. His Nakh'sikh has a 
commentary by Par'tap Sdh'i (No. 149), and another by an anonymous 
■poet oiUniU'Cird (No. 660). 

136. T^T'^ftfT f^f^l Raja /ndar'Jit Sirjgh, the Bundela 
of Ufchha, in Bundel'khand, H. 1580 A.D. 

Rag, As a poet he wrote under the name of Dhlraj Narind. 
Kesab Das Sanadhya Misar (No. 134) the poet, and Par'bin Rai Paturl 
(No. 137) the poetess, attended his court. See these names for the 
Recount of an adventure he had with the emperor Ak'bar, 

137. qT» ^i^ T;T1[ 'IT^tI'i Par'bin Rai Paturl, the courtezan 
of Ufchha, in Bundsr'khani. Fl. 1580 A.D. 

KSsab Dds (No. 134) composed his Kabi-priya in honour of this 
courtezan, and in its dedication highly honoured her. She was 
authoress of numerous short poems which have a great reputation. She 
attended the court of king Indar'jit (No. 136), and the emperor Ak'bar, 
hearing of her fame, summoned her to him. Indar'jit refused to allow 
her to go, and thereupon Ak'bar fined him ten million rupees as a rebel. 
Kesab Das repaired to Ak'bar's court, and interceding through Bir'bal 
(No. 106) got the fine remitted. Par'bin hadj however, to appear 
before Ak'bar, and after giving a sample of her learning was allowed 
to depart. The whole interview is poetically described by Sib Singh, 
p. 448. 



60 THE MODEBN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HIHDCaTlW. [§ 138. 

138. ^T^ f5R3P[^ f^TTT^, Bal Krish'n Tiipathh '^ 
1600 A.D. 

He was son of Balibhadr', nephew of Kesab Das, and brother of 
Kasi Natfi. He was the author of a good prosody entitled Ras- 
chandrika. 

There is another poet of the name Bal Krish'n, of whom I know 
no particulars. 

139. «R'n^ •TTSI ^f^, the poet Kasi Nath. Fl. 1600 A.D. 
A graceful poet. He was son of Balibhadr', nephew of Kesab Das, 

and brother of Bal Krish'n Tripdthi. 

140. "^W '^^*^ Dsb Datt' alias Deb Kabi, the Brahman of 
Samanegaw, district Mam'puri. B. l&OU A.D. 

According to Native opinion he was the greatest poet of his time,' 
and indeed one of the great poets of India. He is said to have written 
no less than seventy different works. The following are those which 
are best known:— (1) Prem Tararjg, (2) Bhaw-bllas, {2) Ras-bllas, 
(4) Rasanand-lahan, (5) Sujan-binod, (6) Kdbya-rasayan [a treatise 
on prosody {piygal) and rhetoric {alayhar)], {7) Ashta-jam (Rag.) 
(printed), (8) Deb-mSya Prapanch (a play),, (9) Prem-dlpika, (10) 
Sumil-binod, (H) Rddhikd-bilas. Garcia de Tassy (i, 157), quoting 
from Ward, (ii, 480), calls him Deb Raj, and says that he is author of 
a Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87), which is probably one of the above-; 
mentioned works. 

141. T^ Ty^-, Hari Ram. B. 16S3 A.D. 

The author of a Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87}. Possibly the same 
as a Hari Rdm Kabi, the author of a PJijgal (Rag.), or treatise on 
prosody, mentioned by Sib Siggh as B. (? Fl.) 1651 A.D. 

142. ^"^^ ^Itjl ^T^r^ the poet Sundar Das, a Brahman 
of Gwdliyar. Fl. 1631 A.D. 

Nir., Sun. He attended the court of the emperor Shah Jahdn. 
He was first given the title of Kabi Rdy, and afterwards of Mahd Kabi 
Rdy. Has principal work is on composition, and is entitled Sundar 
Srirjgdr, a work on lovers. He was also author of a Braj Bhakha 
translation of the Sigghdsan Battlsl (Rag.), the origin of LallQ J'l Ldl's 



§ 145.] THE AES POETICA. [1680—1692 A.D.] 61 

Hindustani version, and of a philosophical work entitled Gyan Samudra- 
Garcin de Tassy (i, 482) suggests that he may also have been the 
author of a work entitled Sundar Bidya. 

143. f^^T^ffrT f^TTT^, Chintamani TripaW, of 
Tih'mapur, district Kanh'pur. Fl. 1650 A.D. 

Nir., Sat. He is counted as one of the great masters of vernacular 
composition (^f%^). The legend in the Doab is that his father used 
eontinually to visit a shrine of Devi and worship her. The shrine is 
still shown at a distance of a mile from Tik'mapur. One day the' 
goddess, being pleased at his devotion, appeared to him, and showing 
him four skulls promised that they should aU be bom as sons to him. 
As a matter of fact so it turned out, and he obtained four sons, viz. 
(1) Chintamani, (2) Bhahhan, (3) Mati Ram, and (4) data Sagkar alias 
Nil Kanih, Of these, the last obtained the blessing of a saint and 
became a poet. The other three studied Sanskrit and became so learned 
that it is said that their fame will remain to the end of the world. 
From Mati Earn were descended Sltal and BifiarJ Lai, who were 
aUve in 1844 A.D., and Ram Din. Chintamani attended for a long 
time the court of Bhomald Makarand Shah, of the solar race at 
Nag'pur. Under his name he composed an important treatise on 
prosody entitled Chhand-bichar. He also wrote the (2) Kabya-bibSk, 
(3) Kabi-kul Kalpa-taru, (4) Kabya-par'kas, and (5) a Ramayan. 
The last is an excellent work in Kabitta and other metres. Amongst 
his patrons were Rudr' Sah'i, the SularjkJ, the emperor Shah Jahan > 
(1628—1658), and Jain Din Ah' mad QSo. 144). He often wrote 
under the nom de guerre of Mani Ldl. He is possibly the same as 
another Chintamani, also Mentioned by Sib Siggh, 

144. ^ ^t'^ ^^7Ji^, Jaw Din Alj'mad. B. 1679 (?) A.D. 

He was a poet himself, and also a great patron of poets. Amongst 
his proteges may be mentioned Chintamani Tripdthl (No. 143), of 
Tik'mapur. 

145. ^^1 f^Tn^T? Bhakhan Tripathl, of Tik'mapur, district 
Kanh'pur. Fl. 1660 A.D. 

Nir., Haj., Rag. He was brother of Chintamani Tripdthl (No, 143), 
and excelled in the tragic, herbic, and terrible styles, At first he 



62 THE MODEEN LITEBAEY HISTOBT OF HIHBtfSTlN. [| 146. 

attended for six months the court of king Gfihattr' Sal (^o. 197), of 
Par'na (Panna). Thence he went to Sib Raj, the Sit/aghJ, of Sitara, 
where he was much honoured and received many times enormous 
presents for his works. On one occasion he got as much as five 
elephants and twenty-five thousand rupees for a singlfi poem. His 
poems in honour of Sib E.aj are the most famous of their class. 
Having exploited this monarch he returned home, and on his way 
passed through Par'na. Chhattr" Sal, feeKng himself quite unable to 
reward the poet as Sib Eaj had done, instead of giving him money, 
helped .with his own shoulder to carry him in his palankerai on his way. 
This occurrence is the origin of some of the poet's most famous verses. 
After resting at home Bhukhan set out on a tour through Eaj'putana, 
proclaiming the gloiy of Sib Eaj. He finally found himself at Kumab, 
.and recited a verse in honour of the king of the place. The king 
imagined that Bhukhan had come to look for a reward, and that all 
the story of his having been enriched by Sib Eaj was pure invention : 
so he offered him a handsome present of elephants, horses, and money. 
To this Bhiikhan replied: — "I hunger i not for this. I came only to 
learn if Sib Eaj's fame had penetrated here or not." 

His principal works are (1) Sib Raj BhUhhan, (2) BhQkhan Hajara, 
(3) BfiQlihan Ullas, and (4) DUlifian Ullas. Seventy short pieces by 
him in all styles are included in the Hajara of KaUdas Tribedi. 

146. TfrT TTT f^XTT^, naati Ram THpqth'. 9! Tili'md. 
pur, district Kanti'pur, FJ. cir. 1650—1682 AJD. 

Nir., Eag., Sun., Sat. He was brother of Cfiiatamani Tripathl 
(No. 143). He led a wandering life, going from one royal court 
to another. 

His best \?rorks are (1) Lalit Lalam, a work on rhetoric, which he 
wrote in the name of Eaw Biiauj Sitjgfi, of BOndi (1658—1682 ; cf. 
Tod, ii, 489 ; Gale, ed ii, 527) ; (2) Ohli(incl Sar, a treatise on prosody, 
in the name of Fatifi Scihi, the Bundela of Sn'ncfgar; and (3) Ras 
Raj (Eag.), a treatise on lovers. See Garcin de Tassy, i, 332. 

147. Wff •n^ Itlf-, Eaja Sambhu Nath Siggh Sularjfii 
alias Sambhu Kabi, alias Nath Kabi, alias Nrip Sambhu, of Sifara. 
Fl. cir. 1650. 



' This (■?^ ^ ^'^ ^j;^ ■^'#t') is a pun on the poet's name y^afi \ 



§ 150.] THE AES POETIOA. [1580—1692 A.D.] ;63 

Sun., Sat. Not only a patron of poets, but author of an admired 
work. It is in fixe erotic style, and is called Kaby(l Niralh It is 
considered tke best work on lovers extant. He was a great friend of 
Mail Ram Tripathl (No. 146). 



148. 5ft^ ^^ t^^T^, NU Kanth Tripathl, alias data 
Sagkar, of Tih'mpaur, district Kanh'pur. Fl. cir. 1650 A.D. 

Nir., Sat. A brother of Chintamani Tripathl (No. 143). No 
complete works by Tn'm are known to be extant. 

149. TTTTfTTTT "mfW-i the bard Par'tap Sahi, ' of Bundel'hhan d. 
Fl, 1633 (?) A.D. 

He was son of the poet Rat'nes (No. 199), and attended the court 
of king Chhattr' Sal (No, 197), of Par'na (Pannd). He wrote a work 
on vernacular composition (ffPIT ^ifw) entitled Kdbya Bilgs. At 
the suggestion of Bikram Sahi he wrote a commentary to the Bhdkhd 
Bhakhan and to the Nakh'sikh (eee -note to No. 87) of Balibhadr' 
(No, 135). Another work of his is entitled the Bigyarthakmmudl. 
I do not know the work here entitled Bhakha BhSkhan. The only 
work of that name with which I am acquainted was written by 
Jas'want Sirjgh (No. 377) at the end of the eighteenth century, and 
has been frequently commentated on. Who the Bikram Sahi 
referred to above is I do not know. He cannot be the weU-known 
Bikram Sahr of Char'khdrl (No. 534) if the account given above, 
which is that given in the Sib Siygh Saroj, is correct. Bikram of 
Char'khafi flourished in 1804 A.D. If he is the man referred to, then 
the poet cannot have attended the court of Chhattr' Sal (fl. 1650), and 
the Bhakha Bhukhan referred to was probably that by Jas'want Siggh. 
The matter beiag doubtful, I place Par'tap provisionally here, 

150. '^TTf?r ^T^-, the poet Srlpati, of Par'ySg'pur, 
district Bahiralch. B. 16j!^ A.D. 

1 This word SShl or Shahl is the same as Shah, but is an older fornj, pre- 
serving in its final i a trace of tie ending i/a in the Zend hshfiyathiysi, which 
has disappeared in the modern Persian 8Mh. See Zoroastrian Deities on Indo- 
Scythic Coins, by A. Stein, reprinted from The Oriental and Babylonian Becord, 
August 1887, p. 9. 



64 THE MODEEN LITBEAET HISTOET OF HINDtJSTlW. [§ 1^51. 

Sud., Sun. He is counted as one of the masters of vernacular 
composition. His most famous works are (1) the Kdbya Kalpa-drum, 
(2) Kabna Saroj, (3) Srlpati Sard/. 

151. ^^^rfr ^^^V Saraswatl, the poet-laureate, a 
Brahman of Banams. Fl. 1650 A.D. 

He was learned in Sanskrit composition .(^f%Hl), and at the 
instance of the emperor Shah Jahan (1628 — 1658) he took to writiag 
poems in the vernacular. His priacipal work of this nature was the- 
Kablndra-kalpa-lata, in which there are many poems in praise of 
priuce Dara Shukoh and the Begam Sahib. 

152. 1%^ •TT^ ^f^, the poet 5/6 Nath, of Bundel'hhand. 
Fl. 1660 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja Jagat Siggh Bundela, the son of 
Chhattr' Sal (IS'o. 197), oiPar'na (Panna), and was the author of a work 
on poetry entitled Has Ranjan. The above is Sib Singh's account ; 
but, according to Tod, Chhattr* Sal, the Bundela, had no son named 
Jagat. See Tod's Bajasthan, ii, 491; Calc. ed. ii, 527. Hunter's 
Gazetteer, s.v. Jaitpur, mentions a Jagatraj, son of Chhattr' Sal. The 
Bep. Arch. 8ur. Ind. xvii, 106, gives some verses by a poet named 
Sib (or Shiu) Putt, who lived about the same time. 

153. "3^*^ Wf^t the poet Tu/'s'i, the son of Jadu Ray. 
Fl. 1655. 

He was only a mediocre poet himself, but he compiled in 1655 
A.D. an excellent anthology, entitled the Kdbi-mala. It includes " 
poems by seventy-five different poets, dating from Sambat 1500 (A.D. 
1443) down to Sambat 1700 (A.D. 1643). 

154. T^T "^f^i the poet litandan, of Jmt'pur, in Bun- 
del'lihand. B. 1659, 

Nir., Sun. He attended the court of king Maggad Siggh. H© 
wrote three works on composition (*)lf^(*j), entitled (1) Ras 
Rataabali, (2) Ras Bilas, and (3) Nam Paohasa- 

155. T.W^ ^T^-, the poet ffaia/7. B. 1681 A.D. 



§ 159.] THE AE8 POETIOA. [1580—1693 A.D.] 65 

He attended the court of Sabha Sah'i, (cf. No. 346), Eaja of 
Par'na (Panna),. and translated the Rasa Mahjarl into the vernacular. 
Probably the same as the poet Ratan, of Snnagar, in Bundel'khand, 
who attended the court of Eaja Fat'h Sah'i, the Bundela of Sn- 
nagar. Under this king's name he composed two works on verna- 
cular composition, entitled Phateshdh Bhuhhan and Phate Par'kas 
respectively. Mr. Whish, Deputy Oomissioner of Hamlr'puf, informs 
me that Fat'l^ Sahi was a descendant of Chhattr' Sal (No. 197), but 
never came to the throne. 

156. '^^^^T^f^i the poet Mur'/J Dhar. B. (PFl.) 
1683 A.D. 

Haj., Sun. Probably the same as a Mur'll Kabi in Rag., and as 
a Mur'll Dhar Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh (without date) as joint 
author with Sri Dhar (No. 157) of a work on prosody entitled' Kabi 
Binod. 



157. ^ ^^ ^lf%, the poet' Sri Dhar. Fl. (?) 1683 A.D. 
Sun. Joint author with H^ur'/T Dhar (No. 156) of a prosody entitled. 

Kabi Binod. 

158. ^TTf ^f^l the poet Bara/7, of 5Ai?/3a/. B. 1683 A.D. 
He attended the court of Shujdu'l Shah Nawab, of RdJ'garh. 'He 

wrote a highly esteemed work on composition (wrf^??!) entitled 
RasH{ Bilas. 

159. SRXf^^^ f^^^, Kdiidds Tribedi, of Ban'pOrd, m 
the Dodb. Fl. cir. 1700 A.D. 

Nir., Sat. He was an excellent and famous poet of the Dodb. At 
first he remained for many years in attendance on the emperor 
Aurarjg'zeb in Goliul'kundd and other places in the Deccan. There- 
after he lived with king Jdgdjit Siygh' BaghubansI, of JambQ, and 
under his name composed a fine work entitled the Badhu-binod. His 
best known work is an anthology entitled the Kdiidds Hajdrd 
(quoted in this work as 'Haj.'), in which he has included a thousand 
poems by two hundred and twelve poets dating from A.D. 1423 



60 THE MODEEN LITBBAET HISTOBT OF HINDtJSTlN. [§ 160, 

down to A.D. 1718. Sib Siiggh states that he has derived great 
assistance from this work in writing Ms Saroj (which indeed appears 
to be the fact). He adds that he has in his library a splendid work by 
the same author entitled Ja^jlraband. 

His son was Uday Nath KabJndr' (No. 334), and his grandson the 
poet Dalah (No. 358), both celebrated authors. 

160. ^^ ^ f^^X-i Sukh Deb Misar, the Kabiraj or 
poet-laureate, olKampila. Fl. cir. 1700 ArD. 

Nir., Sat., Sun. He is counted as one of the masters of vernacular 
composition. He attended the court of Eaja Raj Sirjgh, son of Raja 
Arjun Sirjgh, of Gauf', and obtaiaed from him the title of Kabiraj 
or poet-laureate. There he wrote a treatise on prosody entitled Brit 
Biohar, which is considered to be the best of all works of its Idnd. 
Thence he went to the court of Eaja Himmat Siijgh, of Ameth'i, 
where he wrote another prosody entitled Chhand Bichar. Thence he 
repaired to Nawab Fazil 'All Khan, minister of Aumtjg'zeb, where 
he wrote a famous work on vernacular composition (*iir^<*l) entitled 
Ph&jil All Par'kds (attributed by Garcia de Tassy, i, 479, but with 
hesitation, to one Suhdeb, quoting from Ward, A View, etc., ii, 481). 
He was also author of the Adhydtma Par'has and the Das'rath Ray. 
His most famous pupU was Jai Deb (No. 161), of Kampild. Cf. 
No. 661. 

161. ^ ^^ sftl*!^ the poet Jai Deb, of Kampild. Fl. tjir. 
1700 A.D. 

He attended the court of Nawab Fdzil 'All Khdn, and was a pupil, 
of Sulih Deb Misar (No. 160), of Kampild. 

162. •rra"^ Ndth. FL cir. 1700 A.D. 

? Sun. He attended the court of Faz// 'All Khdn. He is possibly the 
same as a Ndth Kabi who attended the court of Bhag'want Rdy, 
Khhhl (No. 333), who died 176.0.' (Cf. Nos. 68, 147, 440, 632, and 850.) 



§ 165.1 OTHBE 8UCCBSS0ES OF TUl'si DAS. [1600—1700 A.D.] 67 



CHAPTER VIII. 



OTHEE SUCCESSOES OF TUL'SI DAS. [1600-1700 A.D.] 



Part I.— Religious Poets. 

[Arranged as far as possible in order of date. J 

163. ^^1 DddQ, the cotton-carder, of Narain, in Aj'mer. 
Fl. 1600 A.D. 

The founder of the Dadu Panthi sect. He was born at Ahmadabdd, 
but in his twelfth year removed to Sdmbhar. He finally settled at 
Narain, a place about four kos from ^ambhar, where he received his 
inspiration. His principal works are the DddQ kl Bdni and the 
DddQ Panthi Granth. The latter has been translated by Lieut. Gr. 
E.. Siddons in the J. A. S. B., vi, pp. 480 and 750. See Wilson, 
Religious Sects of the Sindus, i, 103, and Garcin de Tassy. One of 
his disciples was Sundar, the author of the Sundar Sarjkhyd, The 
Ban! extends to 20,000 Unes. Dadu's life by Jan Gopdl runs to 
3,000 Unes. Fifty-two disciples spread his doctrines throughout 
Rdj'putdnd and ^j'mer, each of them leaviag a large collection of 
religious verse. Thus, the poems and hymnology of Garib Das are 
said to amount to 32,000 lines; Jdisd is stated to have composed 
1,24,000 lines; Par'ydg Dds, 48,000 lines; Rajab Jl, 72,000; Bakh'nd 
Jl, 20,000 lines; SarjkarDds, 4,4.00 ; Bahsi Ban'wdn Dds, 12,000 
lines ; Sundar Dds, 1,20,000 lines ; and Madho Dds, 68,000 lines. See 
Memorandum on Bhashd Literature by John TraiU, of Jjapur : 1884. 

164. ^•^T! ^(tl "^J^-jthB^oei Sundar Dds, oi Mewdr, Fl. 
cir. 1620 A.D. 

He was a disciple of DddQ (No. 163) and wrote a quietistic work 
entitled Sundar Sdgkfiyd. 

165. ^SHmifT Wf^') -the poet Sendpati, of Brinddban, in 
Braj. B. 1623 A.T). 

E 2 



68 THE MODEKN LITEBAEY HISTOET Ot HIKDtTSTAN. [§ 166. 

Haj., Sud. He was a devotee at Brinddban, and was th,e author of 
a standard work entitled Kabya Kalpadrum. 

166. ^•^^,^^Sr,0,ar,om;.M„.. B.ie^S 
A.D. 

Sud (?). The author of a work dealing with Durga, entitled 
Bhawanl Chhand. 



167. JTR •n^, Pran Nath, the Chhattn of Par'na (Panna), 
in BundBl'hhand. Fl. 1650. 

The founder of the Praii'nathl sect, an attempt at uniting the 
Hindii and Musahnan religions. He attended the court of Chhattr' Sal 
(fl. 1650), of Par'na {Panna) (No. 197). See Growse, J. A. S. B., xlviii, 
p. 171, where a specimen of one of his works (the Qiyamat Nama) 
is given and translated. Mr. Growse is wrong ia puttiug him at 
the beginning of the eighteenth century, for Chhattr' Sal died in 1658. 
Pran Nath was the author of fourteen works, of which a list is 
given by Mr. Grrowse, I.e. The language is peculiar, the grammatical 
structure being purely Hiadi while the vocabulary is mainly supplied 
from Persian and Arabic. 

168. '^T W1, Blr Bhan, of Brijhaslr. FL 1658 A.D. 
The founder of the sect of Sadhs, the doctrines of which he taught 

in consequence of a miraculous communication received from one 
UdaiJ DaS, According to others he was a disciple of one Jogi Das. 
The doctrines taught by his superhuman instructor were communi- 
cated in the form of Sabds and Sakhls, detached Hindi verses Kke 
those of Kablr. They are collected into manuals and read at the 
religious meetings of the Sadhs. See Wilson, Religious Sects of the 
Hindus, i, 354, and Garcia de Tassy, i, 125. 

169. 'Tjil"!^ ^^^1 S" ^^^ Gobind Siggh. B. 1666 A.D. 
The celebrated founder of the miHtant Sikh religion. He was a 

Paniabi* of the Sodi Kiattri caste, and was bom in Anand'pur, ia 

' I am indebted for most of this information to Ray Jai Krish'n, of Pat'na, 
who ia a trustee of the Sikh temple there. 



§ 170.J OTHEE SUCCESSOES OF TUl'si DAS. [1600—1700 A.D.] 69 

Pat'na City, on tlie seventh of the light half of Pus, Sambat 1723 
(1666 A.D.). His father was Guru Teg Bahadur, who was summoned 
by Aurang'zeb to Delhi and there compelled to embrace Muhammad- 
anism. Teg Bahadur died in 1675 A.D. (fifth of light half of 
Ag'han, Sam. 1732). Some say that he committed suicide, others 
that he was murdered by Aurangzeb. When that monarch began to 
oppress the Hindus, Q-obind Singh felt himself to be commissioned by 
god to appear in this world in human form to destroy tyrants. In the 
summer of 1697 A.D. (first of Hght haK of Ohaat, Sam. 1754), he 
commenced a severe penance, and offered sacrifices to the goddess Kali 
on the hill of Naina Debi, in the district of Hushiar'pur, in the Panjab. 
After a year's penance, on the ninth of light half of Ohlat, Sam. 1755 
(A.D. 1698), the goddess appeared to him and commanded him to 
ask a boon. He exclaimed, — " Goddess, grant me the boon that-I may 
always be engaged in good works, and that when I go forth to fight 
the enemy I may always be victorious and never terrified." The 
goddess disappeared, saying " Be it so." 

After he had convinced his disciples of the truth of his mission, 
he made a collection of works containing not only poems by himself, 
but also selections from the works and prophecies of other authors. 
It is called the Granth Sahib (see No. 22), and is in four parts, aU in 
verse : — 

(1) The Sunlti Par'kas, a treatise on morals. 

(2j The Sarb Loh Par'kas, a commentary on Ndnah's (No< 22) 
writings. 

(3) The Prem Sumarg, dealing with the Sikh religion. It contains 

a section entitled the Baohitra Ndtah, which is a short 
account of Gobind's life and mission. 

(4) The Buddh Sagar, consisting of hymns and invocations. 
Gobind Siqgh wrote well in Braj Bhakha, Panjabi, and Persian, and 

was altogether a famous poet. 

Cf. Garcin de Tassy, i, 191. According to Wilson, Religious Sects 
of the Sindus, i, 274, the chief work of the sect is known as the Das 
Padshah lia gmnth. 

170. ^'RTT, the bard Khuman, of Char'fihan, in Bundel'hhand. 
B. 1683 A.D. 

He was bom blind and was quite uneducated. It happened that a 
holy man came to his house, and after staying there four months was 

E 3 



70 THE MODBEN LITBEAET HI8T0ET OF HINDtJSTlN. [| 171. 

escorted out of Ohar'khari by many respectable and learned men of 
the place. Wben they had gone a little way the others returned, but 
Khuman stayed by him, in spite of the saint advising him to go home. 
Ehuman's argument was, " Why should I return to my home ? I am 
bliad, ignorant, and of no use in the house. As the proverb says, I am 
like the washerman's donkey, who belongs neither to the house nor 
to the washing place." 1 Pleased at this the saint wrote the mantra of 
Saraswati on his tongue, and told him first to compose a poem in 
honour of his (the saint's) gourd pot. Khuman immediately composed 
twenty-five verses in its honour, and after worshipping the saint's 
feet returned home. There he began to compose epics in Sanskrit and 
in the vernacular. 

Once he was attending the court of Raja Sendhia (Scindia), of 
Gwali'yar, who commanded him to spend the whole night in writing. 
a work in Sanskrit. Khuman agreed to do this, and in one night 
composed seven hundred clokas. 

He is considered to have been truly an inspired poet. His best 
known works are the Lachhman Satak and the Hanuman Nakh'sikh.^ 

He is possibly the same as a poet named Khuman Kabi (date 
unknown), who metrically translated a section of the Amara Kooa 
(Rag.) into the vernacular. 



Part II.— Other Poets. 

[These are grouped as far as possible according to their patrons or the states to 
which they were attached.] 

171. ^WTT^ Napr (IVa?Jr), of ^g'ra. Fl. before 1600 A.D. 

Rag. A poet of considerable fame, first prominently introduced 
to European readers by Mr. FaUon in the preface to his Hindustani 
Dictionary. Mr. FaUon says that he is the only poet whose verses 
have made their way to the people, and that there is scarcely an 
indifferent line in aU that he has written. To these very wide state- 
ments I am quite unable to subscribe. His writings (quoted as 
l\la?lr- kl Shair in Rag.) certainly are popular among certain classes, 
but they have nothing hke the general acceptance of the works of poets 
like Tul'sl Das, Sar Das, Malik Muhammad Jayasi, and other giants 



1 I.e., he is always going backwards and forwards between them. 

2 See note to No. 87. 



§ 175.] orHEE STJCCE880ES OF TTJL'SI DAS. [1600—1700 A.D.] 71 

of the period. Neither can I agree with Mr. Fallon's estimate of 
the literary value of his works, which, although couched in popular 
language, are so filthily indecent as to be unreadable by any person of 
European training and taste. 

172. TR ^T^ ^rf^, the poet Man Das, of Braj. B. 1623 
A.D. 

Eag. A favourite poet. His principal work was a vernacular 
poena entitled Ram Charitr', founded on the Ramayana of Valmlki 
and on the Hanuman Nataka. 



173. <il"^X ^f^i the poet Thahur ihe elder. Fl. 1643 A.D. 
Haj., Sun. According to one account he was a bard of the village 

As'nJ, district Fatih'pur, and lived about the time of Muhammad Shah 
(1719—1748.). Others say he was a Kayasth of Bundel'khanji. 
There is a legend in Bundel'khand that one time the BundelSs were 
assembled at Chhattr'pur in order tp murder Himmat'i Bahadur (No. 
378), the Gosai, and that Thakur sent them- a poem commencing 
grf%% ttpH"! ^ ?S1[ ST ff «jf , 1 on receipt of which they dispersed. 
Himmati Bahadur rewarded the poet for this service with a present 
of money. But Himmati Bahadur flourished in 1800, while this 
' poem is included in the Hajara of Kalidas Tribedl, No. (159), which 
was completed in or about the year 1708-. It is probaMe, therefore, 
that there were two poets of this name, who have been confounded. 
Moreover, Sib Singh states that he has in his possession hundreds of 
excellent short poems by a Thahur Kabi who was aUve in Sambat 
1700 (A.D. 1643), and hence the present poet's date is fixed as 
above. 

174. i'^TW Xym-, Bed&sg Ray. Fl. cir. 1650. 

Author of the Pdr'sl Par'has, a work describing the manker of 
counting the months, etc., by Hindus and Musalmans, which was 
compiled under orders of Shah Jahdn. See Garcin de Tassy, i, 519. 

175. ^T^ TT^ ^f^i the poet KM Ram. B. 1658 A.D. 

• The whole poem in given in the Sih Siygh Saroj, p. 124. 

E 4 



72 THE MODBBN UTEBAEY HISTORY OF HINDtJSTlN. [§ 176. 

He attended the court of Nizamat Khan, Subedar of Aumrjg'zeb 
(1658— •1707). His poems are said to be gracefuL 

176. '?[«^T;»«n'fT f^"^T^i Indar'jit Tripathl, oi Ban' par a, 
in tbe Dpab. B. 1682 A.D. 

A servant of Auragg'zeb (1658—1707). 

177. f;^^ ^^, tbe poet iswar. B, 1673 A.D. 

He attended the court of ^ra^flf'zeft (1658 — 1707). His poems 
are said to be full of taste. 

178. ^TR"'fr eRf^, the poet Smant B. 1681. 
Haj. He attended the court of Aumgg'zeb (1658 — 1707). 



, 'Abdu'l Jan/, of Bil'gram, district 



179. ^^'^^ ^r^Ni^ 

Har'dol. B. 1682 A.D. 

He originally wrote in Arabic and Persian, and was an attendant 
at the court of th6 emperor Auragg'zeb (1658 — 1707), He subse- 
quently studied vernacular poetry under Han'bans Misar (No. 209), of 
Bil'gram, and wrote some good- vernacular verses. 

180. f*nAl»*l ^f^? the poet Krish'n. B. 1683 A.D. 

He attended the court of the emperor Aurarjg'zeb (1658 — 1707). 
Possibly the same as Krish'n Kabi, of Jaipur (No. 327). 

181. '^T^V ^f^l the poet 'ii/am. B. 1700 A.D. 

Nir, Sun. He was originally a Sanadhya Brahman, but falling 
in love with a Muhammadan woman, a dyer by trade, he turned 
Musalman, and was for a long time in the service of prince Mu'azzam 
Shah, son of the emperor^m5S''ze6 (1658—1707) and afterwards the 
emperor BahadQr Shah (1707 — 1712). His poems are said to be very 
beautiful. 

182. '^^?^ Tf^TTT, 'Abc'u'r Rahiman, of 0/7/7, B. 
1681 A.D. ^ 



§ 188.] OTHEB 8UCCESS0ES OE TTJl'sI DAS. [1600—1700 A.D.J 73 

He attended the court of Mu'azzam Shah, afterwards the emperor 
BahadQr Shah (1707—1712), and wrote an ingenious work entitled 
Jamak-Satak, or a century of punsj 

183. TTvttT^ ^rfsr, the poet Par'sad. B. 16S3 A.D. 

He attended the court of the king of Udaipur {Mewar), and is 
said by Sib Siggh to be \ well-known poet. 

184. ^RTrT T^"!^') liana Jagat Siggh, x>i Mewar. Fl. 1628— 
1654 A.D. 

One of the most famous of the kings of Mewar, and founder 
and rebuilder of Udaipur, A bard, name unknown, wrote the Jagat 
Bilds, a chronicle of his times (Tod's R&jasthdn, i, xiv ; Calc. ed. i xiii). 
He reigned during the above years (Tod. i, 372 ; Calc. ed. i, 394), 

185. TT^ T%"^1 liaia Baj Sirjgh, of Udaipur in Mewar. 
Eeigned 1654—1681 A.D. 

The celebrated opponent of Aurarjg'zeb. (See Tod's Rajdsthan, 
i, 374 ; Calc. ed i, 396.) A poet, name unknown, wrote a chronicle 
of his name, entitled the Raj Par' has (Tod, i, xiy ; Calc. ed. i, xiii). 

186. TTT ^^T^ ^? tlie poet-laureate and bard Man, of 
Raj'putana. Fl. 1660 A.D. 

At the Suggestion of Eana Raj Sirjgh, of Mewar (No. 185), he 
wrote the Raj Deb Bilds, which deajs with the fights between 
Aurarjg'zeb and: Raj Siggh. Cf. Tod, i, 214, 374, and ff., and 391 ; 
Calc. ed. i, 231, 396, and fE., and 414, 

187. '9^Tf^ 'T ^m", the poet and bard Saddsib. Fl. 1660 A.D. 
He lived at the court of Eana Rdj Sirjgh, of Mewar (No. 185), the 

enemy of Aurarjg'zeb, and wrote his patron's life under the title of Rdj 
Ratndftar. Cf. Tod, i, 214, 374, and ff; Calc. ed. i, 231, 396, and ff. 

188. ^ TWW'i '^^^a.Jai Siggh, oi Udaipur in Mewdr.Eeigaed 
1681—1700 A.D. 



74 THE MODEEN LITEEAEY HISTOET OF HINDfJSTjN. ' f§ 189. 

He was son of Rana Raj Siggh (No. 185), and was a patron of 
poets. He had written a work, entitled the Jai Deb Bilas, which is a 
series of lives of the kings whom he had conquered. Cf . Tod i 
xiv. 214, and 391-94; Gale. ed. i, xiii, 231, and 414-418. 

189. T?T ^?TT ^f^<) i^e ]poet Ran Chhor. ri.l680A.D. 
His date is doubtful. He was author of the Raj Pattana, a bardic 

chronicle of Mewar. Cf. Tod, i, 286 ; ii, 59 ; Calc. ed. i, 305 ; ii, 65. 

190. W*5rr ^T: ^f^, the poet Lila Dhar. Fl. 1620 A.D. 
He attended the court of Maharaj Gaj Siygh (1620 — 1638), of 

Jodh'pur, in Mar'war. Cf. Tod, ii, 41 ; ,Calc. ed ii, 46. 

191. ^WK f^f'i Amar Siggfi, of Jodh'pur, in Mar'war. 
FL 1634 A.D. 

The grandson of Maharaj Sur Sirjgh, who in one day distributed 
6,00,000 rupees amongst six 'lords of verse' (see Tod, iij 39 ; Calc. ed, 
ii, 43), and son of Gaj Sirjgh (see No. 190), who was a great patron 
of poets. Amar Siggh was praised by the poet Ban'wdrl Lai. He 
was exiled in A.D. 1634 By his father, and repaired to the court 
of the emperor Shah Jahan, whom he subsequently attempted to 
murder in open court in revenge for a slight. He was cut down 
after killing a number of courtiers. Cf. Tod, ii, 45 ; Calc. ed. ii, 49. 
He should be distinguished from Amar Siggh of Mewar (fl. 1600 A.D., 
■of. Tod, i, 346 ; Calc. ed. i, 371), who collected the works of the poet 
Chand (No. 6). Cf. Tod, i, xiii ; Calc. ed. i, xii. 

192. ^•nf^TTr ^T^ ^fsf, the poet Ban'wdrl Lai. Fl 

1634. 

Haj. A panegyrist at the court of Prince Amar Siggh (No. 191), 
oi Jodh'pur. 

193. T^ •TT5I TT^ ^rfV, the poet Raghu Nath Ray. Fl. 
1634. 

Sun. He attended the court of Prince Amar Sirjgh (No. 191), of 
Jodh'pur. Cf. Tod, ii, 44; Calc. ed. ii, 49. 



§ 196.] OTHEE SUCCESSOES OF TUL'SI DAS. [1600—1700 A.D.] 75 

194. ^[^T Suja (Shujd'). FL 1681. 

A bard at tke court of Jas'wmt Sirjgh (1638—1681), of Mdr'war, 
Cf. Tod, ii, 59 ; Oalc. ed. ii, 62. 

195. "^wtrT f^f^? Maharaj AJlt Siygh, the Eathanir, of 
Jodh'pui, in Mar'war. lived 1681—1724: A.D. 

This king got written a work entitled the Raj RUpafiahhyat. This 
contains a history of events from A.D. 469, when Nayana Pdla 
conquered Kanauj and killed Ajaya Pdla, its king, to the time of king 
Jai Ghand. In a second part the history is carried on to the death 
of Maharaj Jas'want Siijgh in A.D. 1681 ; and again, in a third 
part, is related the history from the commencement of the solar race 
to- the year 1734 A.D. Cf. Tod, ii, 2, 4, 58, and ff., 91k, and 107«; 
Calc. ed. ii, 2, 4, 64, and ff., 99w, and IVTn. 

196. f^TT^t "^^ '^T^? Bihdn Lai Ghaube, of Braj. Fl. 
1650 A.D. 

Sat., Nir., Rag. One of the most celebrated authors of India, his 
fame resting on his Sai Sal (Rag.), or collection of seven hundred dohas, 
for each liae of which he received a reward of a gold ashrafl from king 
Jai Sirjgh- The elegance, poetic flavour, and ingenuity of expression 
in this difficidt work, are considered to have been unapproached by 
any other poet. He has been imitated by numerous other poets, but 
the only one who has achieved any considerable excellence ia this 
peculiar style is Tul'si Das (No. 128), who preceded him by writing a 
Sat Sai (treating of Ram, as Bihari Lai's treated of Krish'n) ia the 
year 1585 A.D. Other good Sat Sals are those of Bikram and 
Chandan. Bihari's poem has been dealt with by innumerable 
commentators. Its difficulty and ingenuity are so great that it is 
called a veritable ak&ara-kamadhenu. The best commentary is that by 
Surat'l Misar (No. 326), Agar'wala. The verses were arranged in the 
order in which they now stand for the use of prince A'zam Shah, and 
hence this edition is called the Azim Shahl recension. It has been 
translated into elegant Sanskrit verse by Pandit Harl Praodda, under 
the auspices of Ghet Sirjgh, Raja of Banaras. Little is known about 
^his great poet's life. His patron was a Raja Jsa Sijggh Kachh'waha, 
of Amer. In 1600 A.D. Raja Man Sirjgh reigned at Amer, and 
between him and the year 1819 there were three Js Singhs. The 



76 THE MODEBN LITEBABY HISTOET OF HINDtfSTlN. [§ 197. 

most probable patron of Bibarl Lai was J at Sirjgh Mirzd, the grandson 
of Jagat Sirjgh, brother of Man Siggb, and this would fix Bihar! 
Lai as flourishing in the first half of the seventeenth century, or as a 
successor of TuTsi Das. (See Tod's Eajasthan ii, 364 ; Oalc. ei ii, 392.) 
Garcia de Tassy (i, 123) makes him contemporary with Kab'ir (about 
1400 A.D.), and states that the English call him the Thompson of 
India. He also, however, states that he lived iu the sixteenth century, 
which is nearer the truth. Amongst those who have commentated on 
the Sat Sal may be mentioned Ghandr' (No. 213), Gopal Saran (No. 
215), Samti Misar (No. 326), Krish'n (No. 327), Kdran (No, 346), 
Anwar Khan (No. 397), Za'Ifaqar (No. 409), Yasuf Khan (No. 421), 
Raghu Nath (No. 559), Lai (No. 561), Sar'ddr (No. 571), Lalla Ji 
Lai (No. 629), Gat)ga Dhar (No. 811), Rdm Bahhsh fNo. 907). 

197. l^"^* ^T^, Chhattr" Sal, Haja of Par'na iPanna), in 
BundePhhand. Fl. 1650 A.D. 

He was' a great and famous patron of learning. He ordered Lai 
Kabi to write the Chhattra Par'hds (Rag.), in which is contaiaed the 
whole history of the Bundelas, from the beginmng down to his time. 
See No. 202. He was kiUed in 1658 A.D, Cf. Tod, ii, 481 ; Calc. 
ed. ii, 526. 

198. f^^lTWi Niwaj {Nawaz), the Brahman, of the Doab. Fl. 
1650 A.D. 

Sun. He attended the court of Raja Chhattr' Sal (No. 197), the 
Bundela of Par'na. Under orders from A'zam Shah he translated 
the Gakuntald into the vernacular. 

The similarity of names has led to his being confounded with 
Niwaj (No. 448), the Muhammadan weaver, so that there is a general 
false impression 'that this poet turned a Musalman. 

199. Trl»*r^ ^f^"^ the poet Rat'nes. Fl. ? 1620 A.D. 
He was father of the bard Par'tdp Sdhi (No. 149). He was 

author of many admired erotic verses. 

200. '^^''^ir'TlIT «llf^^ the poet and bard PuruhhBttam, of 
Bundel'khanti. Fl. 1650 A.D. 

Eag. 



§ 205.] OTHER SUCCBSSOES OF TCL'sI DAS. [1600—1700 A.D.] . ^^ 

201. f^WErTf*R«^«I, Bijayabhinandan, of Bundel'khand. 
Fl. 1650 A.D. 

These two attended the court of Raja Chhattr' Sal (No. 197), the 
Bundela of Pafna (Panna). 

202. ^rr^ ^f^, the poet Lai. Fl. 1658 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja Chhattr' Sal (No. 197), the 
Bundela. Hewas present at the battle of Dhol'pur between Ddra 
Shukoh and Auraijg'zSb. in which Chhattr' Sal was killed (1658). 
~ He wrote a treatise on lovers (see note to No. 87), entitled Bishnu Bilas ; 
but he is most famous for the Chhattra Par'kas (Rag.), or History 
of Chhattr', in Hindi or Braj Bhakha verse. Garcin de Tassy (i, 
304) gives the following account of this work, which I have not 
myself seen : — * It deals with the wars and order of succession of 
the ancient Rajas of Bundel'khand, and with the valour of the 
warrior nation of the Bundelas. It contains minute details of^ 
the life of Chhattr' Sal and of his father. Raja Champati Rdy.^ 
* * * Capt. Pogson has given a translation of Lai's work, under the 
title of " A History of the Bundelas," and Major Price has given 
the text of that portion of the work which refers to Chhattr' Sal 
under the title of the " Chhatra Prokash, or Biographical Accoimt 
of Chhatra Sal." ' 

203. TmC ^^ ^ik-, the poet Hari Kes, of JahangTrabad 
Sehuda, in Bundel'khand. FL 1650 A.D. 

Sun, 



204. f TT '^•^1 the bard Hari Chand, of Char'khSrl, in 
Bundel'khand. FL 1650. 

205. "T^irT Wf^t the bard Pahcham the elder, of Bundel'- 
khand. Fl. 1650A.D. 

These three attended the court of Raja Chhattr' Sal (No. 197), 
the Bundela. 

1 According to Tod, Chhattr' Sal's father's name was GSpi Nath.—O.A.G, 



78 THE MODERN LITEEAEY HISTOET OF HINDUSTAN. [§ 206. 

206. 'T'iftT TJ^-) Gambhlr Ray, of Nar'pur. Fl. 1660. 
The bard wlio celebrated the rebellion of Jagat Sijjgh, of MaQ, 

ngainst Shah Jafidn (1628 — 1658). ,Text and translation of portion 
by Mr. Beames in J. A, S. B., vol. xliv (1875), p. 201. Interesting 
and important. 

207. TT^ TrTT") Raw Ratan, the Eathaur. Fl. 1650 A.D. 
He was great grandson of Eaja Uday Siggh, of Rat'lam. In his 

honour an anonymous bard wrote a famous history entitled Ray'sa 
Raw Ratan. Cf. Tod, ii, 49 ; Calc. ed. ii, 55. 

208. mm^ ^f^r, the poet Gopal the elder. B. 1658 A.D. 
He attended the court of Mitmjlt Sirjgh. 

209. f TT!^*^ TiT^T:! Haribans Misar, of Bil'gram, district 
Har'dol. FL 1662. 

According to a copy of the Padmawat in his handwriting, he 
attended the court of Raja Hanumant Siijgh, of Amethl. He is a 
well-known poet, and was yernacular teacher of 'Abdu'l Jalll 
(No. 179), of Bil'gmm. 

210. ^■^^ f%1^ "^TfTT? Sabal Singh, the Chauhan. 
B. 1670 A.D. 

The author of a condensed metrical translation of 24,000 verses of 
the Mahabharata. There are various traditions as to who he 
was. Some say he was Raja of Chand'garh, others that he was 
Raja of Sabal'garh. Sib Siggh considers that he was a zamindar 
of some village in district Itdwa. He is possibly the same as 
another Sabal Sirjgh Kabi mentioned also by Sib Siggh as author 
of two works on composition (giffRj)— (1) Khat Ritu (Rag,), (2) 
Bhaiiha Ritapasagghar. 

211. ■^ 'Ttf^*^ =Rf^? the poet Sn (?g6///^. B. (?F1. Cf. 
No. 145) 1673 A.D. 

He attended the court of Sib Raj, the Sularjli'i, of Sitdra. 



§ 217.] ADDENDA TO OHAPTBE VIII. 79 

212. ^^ ^W ^fk^ the poet DBbl Das, of Bundel'hhand. 
Fl. 1685 A.D. 

In the above year he was abeady a prolific author, and went to 
the court of king Ratan Pal Siggh, of Karaull, where he remained 
till his death. He wrote under that king's name a moral work entitled 
Prem Ratnakar, which is said to be of rare excellence. 



213. ^^* ^n^ the poet Chandr' the younger. B. 1693 A.D. 

He attended the court of Bandan Saba, of BhQpal, brother to 
Sul'tan Pathaii, Nawab of Raj'garh. He wrote a commentary on the 
Sat Sal of Bihari (No. 196) in thp Kundaliyd metre under the name 
of Sul'tan Pathan. 

There is another mediocre poet of the same name, about whom Sib 
Siggh gives no particulars. 



214. ^f^^ Wm-i Sul'tan Nawab Muhammad Khan 
Sul'tan Pathan, of Raj'garh, in Bhapal. B. 170!/. A.D. 

He was a patron of poets, and the poet Chandr' the younger 
(No. 213) wrote in his name a commentary to the Sat Sal of Bihar! 
(No. 196) in the Kmdaliya metre. 

215. ^TTT^ '^TrT^ Eaja Gopal Saran. B. 1691 A.D. 

His principal work is a commentary on the Sat Sal of Biharl 
(No., 196), entitled Prabandh Ghat'na. 

216. 'fmr TTT ^f^9 the poet Motl Ram. B. 1683 A.D. 
Haj. Author of the Braj version of the novel Madhonal, translated 

into Hindustani by Lalla Jl Lai (No. 629) and Maz'har 'All Khan 
Wila. See Garein de Tassy, i, 351, for further particulars. 

217. TC^t Ghagh, of Kanauj, in the Doab. B. 1696 A.D. 

He was an agricultural poet, whose aphorisms have a wide authority 
aU over Northern India. A number of them are inserted in Bihar 
Peasant Life'. Poets in the same style, but of a more local (Eastern) 
reputation, were Bhaddar and Da/r. 



80 



THE MODBBN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDCSTiN. 



[§ 218. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER VIII. 



218. ^^ f^ ^^> t'l® P°^* 
Jag Nand, of Brindaban. '3.1601 A.D. 

Haj. 

219. ^'t^ '^% the poet 
Joyash B. 1601 A.T). 

Haj. 

220. '3?^ ^f) /fAarag Sen, the 
Kayasth, of Gujaliyar. B. iW3 A.D. 

He wrote two esteemed works, en- 
titled DM-im and Dlp-Malika Charitr". 

221. 'ftfrar f^Trd, Gohul 
Bihari. B. 1603 A.B. 

2234 "7^'%^ wfVj the poet 
Par'mes the elder. B. 16ii A.D. 
Haj., Sun. (? of. No. 616). 

223. 'ftf^'^ ^2^ sfiftr, the 
poet Gobind Atal. B. I6I5. 

Haj. 

224. ^f^T? ^ft, the poet 
Ah'mad. B. iffiS A.D. 

He was a Sufi by religion, and 
sympathised with the Vedanta system 
of belief (so Sib Siggh"; but judging 
from his writings, he appears to have 
been rather a Vaishnava). His verses 
in the ddha and sor'tha metres are 
said to be very voluptuous. 

225. 'ftTT IT^l ^1%, the poet 
Gop Nath. B. 1613 A.D. 

226. ftfTft ^nr ^f^, the 
poet Bihari Das, of BraJ. B. 1613. 

Kag. 

227. -ft^WT ?ere, Brindaban 
- Das, of BraJ. B. 1613 A.D. 

Bag. 

I have collected in Mithila songs 
(apparently belonging to the Kabir 
Panthi sect)^by a Brindaban. I do not 



know if he is the same poet as he who 
is q^uoted in Eag. 

228. ^TWT fM^T ^, the _poet 
Kala Nidhi the elder. B. 1615 A.D. 

229. ^fifTRfo ^f^, the poet 
Abhimanya. B. 1623 A.T>. 

His poems are said to deal expertly 
with the passion of love. 

230. '^T^KTirmlx, thejioet 
Ghasi Ram, B. 1683 A.D. 

Haj. A poem by him is given in 
Sep. Arch. Sur. Ind'. xvii, 107. 

231. cTt?? ^tTT ^Fw, the poet 
Jattwd. Beta. B. 1623 A.Di, 

Haj. 

232. ^31 xrf?r qffw, the poet 
Braj Pad. B. 1683 A.D. 

Eag. 

233. TTBIT TW ^f^, the poet 
Raja Ram. B. 1683 A.D. 

Haj. Cf. No. 396. 

234. «<l'l"* ^f^, the poet 
Sadanand. B. 1683 A.D. 

Haj., Dig. 

235. ^pn ^TO, Sant Das, of 
BraJ. m. 1623 A.U. 

Eag. However all the poems 
given under his name are identical 
with others by Sur Das (No. 37). 

236. %^ ^fk, the poet^SeAA. 
B. 1623. A.D. 

Haj., Slid. 

237. "fNj wf^ ^, the poet 
Hira Mani. B. 1623 A.D. 

Haj. 

238. aj^irra ^f^, the poet 
Jadu Nath. B. 1634 A.D. 



§ 261.] 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTEB VIII. 



81 



239. ^^^ ^^ ^fw, the poet 
Ballabh Raslh. B. 1624 A.D. 

Haj., E,ag. He is possibly tlie 
same as a Ballabh Kabi mentioned by 
Sib Siggb as the author of much 
admired dohds. 

240. »f^l3^ ^f^, the poet Bhl- 
hham. B. 16S4 A.D. 

Haj. He is possibly the same as 
a poet of the same name also in Haj., 
whom Sib Siggh dates as B. 16S1 
A.D. He is also possibly the same as 
a Bhlhham Das in Eag. 

241. T^ ^:^ ^^. the poet 
Madhu Sudan. B. 1624 A.D. 

Haj. 

242. ^ITO ^ ^f^r, the poet 
ByasJI. B. 1628 A.J). 

Rag. The author of many cele- 
brated dohas on morals. Many of 
them are included in Haj. 

243. ^f^^ ^TO, Malak Das, a 
Brahman of Kara Manih'pur. B. 1628 
A.D. 

Eag. 

244. Jn«K«^^ ''ff^j the poet 
Gobar'dhan. B. 1631 A.D. 

245. WFT^cPt ^g Bhag'wati 
Das. B. 1631 A.I). 

A Brahman who composed a work 
entitled Nam'hetopahhyan. 

246. ■^ ^"nr '^f^, the poet 
Ghan Ray. B. 1633 A.D. 

247. tift^, the poet Benl 
the elder, of As'nl, district Fatih'pur. 
B. 1633 A.D. 

? Sun. The author of a treatise on 
lovers. (See note to No. 87.) 

248. WS^ ^vf^, tlie poet 
Sakal. B. 1633 A.D. 

Haj. 

249. fir 51^^, the poet 
HatiJan. B. 1633 A.D. 

Haj. 



250. ^^^ ^, the poet 
Anant. B. 1635 A.B. 

Sun. A poem by him, entitled the 
Anantanand, deals with the subject of 
lovers. (See note to No. 87.) 

251. tRT^sr ^f^TT^, Parbin, 
the poet-laureate. B. 1635 A.T). 

Haj. The author of quietistic 
(aiipti T^) poems on morals (^"^1%). 

252. TPT sPt ssfk, the poet 
RamJi. B. 1635 A.J). 

Haj. 

253. T^ »ft"fT, Madan Mohan. 
B. 1635 A.D. 

Eag. 

254. ■PrerrT vT^, the poet 

Nidhan the elder. B. 1641 A.D. 

Haj. 

255. ^ftr %'3^ '^fk, Ihe poet 
Sasi Sekhar. B. 1642 A.D. 

Haj. 

256. ■i^-^SX ^fw, lie poet 
Bha Dhar, of Banaras. B. 1643 A.D. 

Haj. 

257. "^^ ftrf TPTr, king 

Chatur Siggh. B. 1644 A.D. 

He wrote peems in a simple style. 

258. ^fiTX:T1T^, the poet 
Rati Ram. B. 1644 A.D, 

Haj. 

259. XT^^^^f^, the poet 
Pah'lad. B. 1644 A.D. 

Haj. 

260. srai ^grtt ^fk, the poet 
Braj Lai. B. 1645 A.D. 

Haj. 

261. %W ^flT, DSb Datt; th& 
Brahman of Kus'mara (?), district 
/fa/jauy. B. 1646 A.D. 

No particulars. Possibly the same 
as a Deb Datt' KabI mentioned by Sib 
Singh as born 1648 A.D., and as 
another Deb Datt' mentioned by the 
same as B. (P fl.) 1695 A.D. and 
author of a work entitled JSg-Tattwa. 

F 



82 



THE MODERN tITBEAET HISTOBT OP HINDUSTAN. 



[§ 262. 



262. f^^Tf^ ^^> tlie poet 
Siroman}. B 1646. 

Haj. Cf.No. 267. 

263. ^ra %^ ^f^, tHe poet 
Bal DSb tHe elder. B. 1647 A.D. 

Haj., Sun. 

264. am ^Nt ^fV, the poet 
Jag Man. B. 1648 A.T). 

Haj. 

265. tft^ ^^, the poet foftft. 
B. 1648 A.D. 

Mai., Haj., Sun. 

266. Wf^ ^rf^/ the poet 
Wi/Aunrf the elder. B. 1648. 

Haj, 

267. Tf%^ ftO^r-i ^f^, 
the poet Raslk Sirdmanl. B. 1648 A.D. 

Haj. Cf.No. 262. 

268. W( •tl<l*<T ^f^, the 
poet Rup Narayan. B. 1648 A.D. 

Haj. Possibly the same a$ & Rup 
Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh without 
particulars. 

269. WTT «rra ^f^, the poet 
SyamLal. B. 1648 A.I>. 

Sud. (P) Possibly the same as a 
Syam Kabi in Haj. Cf. No. 341. 

270. ^^^ ^f^, the poet 
Har Ju. B. 1648 A.D. 

Haj. 

271: t»I trrfil ^f^, the poet 
TSg Pan!. B. 1661 A.D. 
Haj. 

272. ^^^ ^fw, the poet 
Bajlda. n.l651A.D. 

Haj. 

273. »TT^ ^T^, the pbet 
Bhar'mh B. 1651 A.D. 

Haj. 

274. 1W 'Sf^* the poet fl/i/-//;(/. 
B. 1651 A.D. 

Haj. 



275. ^r^ tnr ^f?, the poet 

Sahl Rim. B. ifiSi A.D. 
Haj. 

276. f%T ^f^, the poet 
Husen. B. 1651 A.D. 

Haj. 

277. ^r^T "^Hi!/o ^f^, the 
poet Achchhar Ananya. B. 1653 A.D. 

Has written quietistio (^rrf^ T^) 
poems. 

278. ^m^ ^% the poet Kam- 
anch, of RaJ'putana. Fl. before 'i653 
A.D. 

Sib Siggh states that he has met 
some poems by him in a Mar'wari 
anthology dated Sambat 1710 (A.D. 
1653). 

279. TTf fra, Haghu Nath the 
elder. B. 1653 A.D. 

Haj. 

280. ^^fTSl «l"d5aH, Uday 
Nath, the bard of Banaras. B. 
1654 A.D, 

281. ^TK Tnr ^ft^, the poet 
AmarDas. B. 16SS A.D. 

Sib Siggh describes him as having 
written some commonplace verses, and 
adds that he has neither seen nor 
heard of any complete work of his. 

282. fr^nrxTfir ftrer, Kui'pati 

aiisar. B. 1657 A.D. 
Haj., Bag. 

283. ^T^, Gwal the elder. 
B. 1658 A.D. 

Haj. 

284. Htf^I ^f%, the poet 
Mohan. B. 1668 A.D. 

Haj., Eag. Cf, No. 329. 

285. W KTH ^f^, the poet 
Ras Ram. Fl. 1658 A.D. 

Haj. An erotic poet. 

286. 'I' mr i'd^ ^TO»ft^T?,the 

master Ban'mal'i Das. B. 1659 A.D. 



§311.] 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTBB VIII. 



83 



He was learned ia Arabic, Persian, 
and Sanskrit. His Vedantic dohas are 
muoh admired. 

287. ^HPf ^m ^% the poet 
Anath Das. B. 16S9 A.D. 

Tie author of poems in the qniet- 
istic style (surPti K^), and also of 
a complete wort entitled the Bichar 
Mala. 

288. aPTKf ^f^f the poet 
Janardan. B. 1661 A.D. 

An erotic writer. 

289. ^1% ^ ^fk, the poet 
BaliJu. Fl 1663 A.D. 

Haj. 

290. 5^ ^TTT ^sfw, the poet 
BurfA Ram. Fl. 1665 A.D. 

Haj. 

291. ^i^Til ^, tlie poet 
Katyan. B.1669A.D. 

Haj., Eag. 

292. fWr 'Tra ^, the 
poet Bidya Nath of the Ooa6. B. 1673 
A.D. 

293. ^T3 f^"?T^ ^ift", the 
poet Z.a/ BiharJ. B. 1675 A.D. 

294. ^X ^^W ^if^, the poet 
Mir Rustam. B. 167S A.D. 

Haj. 

295. jfbct m^w ^f^, tlie 
poet Miri lUadhab. B. 167S A.D. 

Haj. 

296. W?^!^ ^<f^, ^^^ po^t 
Muhammad. B. 1678 A.D. 

Haj. 

297. 'ftin^ ^TO, espa/ oas, 
of Braj. B. 1679 A.D, 

Bag. 

298. f^TT^ ^<f^, the poet 
Bihari. B. 1681 A.J). 

Haj. 

299. '^iftr^ if ^fw, the poet 
Aaiph (Asaf) Khan. B. 16S1 A.D. 



300. %^ KT^r ^rrf , Kesab R^y 
Babu, of Bundel'khand. B. 1682 A.D. 

Sat. He has written an excellent 
work on lovers. (See note to No. 87.) 

301. ^i'ra ^% tte poet 
Kanah. B. 1683 A.D. 

An erotic poet. 

302. ■iT'To^'^^, the poet 
Man'sukh. B. 16SS A.D. 

Haj. 

303. IWK ^, the poet Misar. 
B. 168S A.D. 

Haj. 
304. Xf^ T^' ^fft', the poet 
Rabi Datf alias Babu Sabita Datt'. 
B. 168S A.D. 

Sat. 

305. ■'fri^^ ^^ift-, the poet 
Gdbind Jt. B. 1693 A.D. 

Haj. 

306. %^ «I-<?1^ H, the bard 
Debi. B. 1693 A.D. 

He wrote a Sur Sagar in the comic 
style. 

307, t^ THT ^, the poet 
Debl Ram. B. 1693 A.D. 

A commonplace quietistic ('SiTf'if 
T^) poet. 

308. W^ ^f^> t'le poet Kundan, 
of Bundel'khand . Fl. 1695 A .D. 

Haj. He has written a good 
treatise on lovers. (See note to No. 87.) 

309. ^T*r ^rOT ^rf^, the poet 
Syam Saran. B. 1696 A.D. 

The author of a work entitled 
Swardday (Eag.). 

310. 5ft^ ^f^, the poet Godh. 
B. 1698 A.D. 

311. %H ^f^, the poet ChhSm. 
B. 1698 A.D; 

No particulars. He is possibly 
the same as a Chhem Karan, of the 
Ddab mentioned by Sib Siggh. Cf. 
Nos. 87 and 103. 

f2 



84 



THE kODEEN LITEEAET HISTOEY OF HINDfJSLAN. 



[§ 312. 



81 2. WW ^, the poet Chhatl. 
B. 1698 A.D. 
Haj. 

313. "WS^ ^1^) the poet 
Jugul. B.1698A.D. 

Eag. He is said to have written 
Bome very ingenions verses. He is 
possibly the same as a Jugul Deis 
Eabi mentioned by Sib S)i)gh without 
date. 

314. f^SI "^'S' ^tV, the 
poet DwiJ Chandr". B. 1698 A.D. 



315. ?Iai ^TO> BraJ Das the 
elder. B. 1698 A.J). 

Haj., P Eag. 

316. wnr Tre ^ffsr, the poet 

Syam Das. B. 1698 A.D. 
Eag. 

317. ^TT^ t?r ■^T, /rare 
figjr, the mendicant. B. 1699 A.D. 

Haj. 

318. ^i^ ^f^, the poet Sant 

B. iros A.D. 

An erotic poet. 



THE EIGHTEENTH CENTTTBY. 85 



CHAPTER IX. 



THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. 



The period embraced in the present chapter includes two series 
_ , of events of capital importance in the history 

of India, — ^the decline and faU of the Mughal 
empire and the supremacy and fall of the Maratha power, Bahadur 
Shah succeeded to the throne of Aurarjg'zeb in 1707, and Shah 'Xlam 
was rescued from the hands of the Marathas by Lord Lake in 1803. 
He died in 1806, his son Ak'bar II succeeding only io the nominal 
dignity of emperor. On the other hand Balajl Vishwanath, the first 
peshwa, rose to power with the accession of Sahu to the Maratha 
throne in 1707, and the last peshwa was overthrown in the second 
Maratha war in 1803-4. 

Such times were favourable neither to the founding of new religions 
nor to the cultivation of the arts. A ^few religious reformers, it is 
true, sprung up, but their efforts, though crowned with a certain 
temporary success, have had none of the abiding effect on Hindustan 
which was left by Rdmdnand and Ballabhachdr'J. Raj'putana, the 
home of the bards, was no longer a nation united against the Mughals, 
but was torn by intestine strife. As one of these bards himself 
exclaimed at a feast given by the two princes, ' Jodh'pur and AmbSr 
can dethrone the enthroned; but the latter slew his son, and the 
former murdered his father.' In the scramble for the curSe no relation- 
ship, no tie of friendship, was allowed to iaterfere. The same haste 
to seize upon the plunder of the decayiag empire attacked the 
greatest and best of the kings of Rajasthan, Even Jai Si'ggh, of 
Jaipur, the royal historian and astronomer, one of the most learned 
scientific men that India has ever produced, did not disdain to wrest 
the sovereignty of BUndi from his own sister's husband. Such actions 
the bards could not approve, and so they remained silent. Only two 
bardic chronicles appear to have been written in the eighteenth century, 
and of these, one, the Bijai Bilas, records the fratricidal warfare 
between Bijai and Ram Sirjgh of Jodh'pur. 

In other branches of literature no name of the first class appears. 
Some of the great writers on the ars poetiea of the seventeenth century 

f3 



86 THE MODERN IITEBAEY HISTORY OF HINDtJSTjN. [§ 319. 

left pupils, who carried on their style with some success, but the century 
now under consideration shone most as an age of commentators. 
Nearly aU the great poets of the preceding period found their best 
annotators and explainers in the eighteenth century. Perhaps this, 
too, was a natural sequence. Kesab Das and his followers laid down 
and fixed for ever the canons of Indian poetic criticism, and the 
next generation adopted these lines and applied them to already 
existing acknowledged poetic masterpieces. • 



Part I. — Religious Poets. 

[Arranged as far as possible in order of date. J 

319. fjT^ ^^^1 tlie master Pn'ija Das, of Brindaban, in the 
DMb. Fl. 1712 A.D. 

In the aboTe year he wrote his well-known gloss on the Bhakt 
Mala of Nabha Das (see No. 51). He is possibly the same as the 
author of a Bhagauat in the dialect of Bundel'khand mentioned by 
"Ward {View of the JSistory of the Hindus, vol. ii, p. 481). See 
Garcin de Tassy, i, 405. 

320. TWT TTffT? Garigci Pat'i. Fl. 1719 A.D. 

Author of a work entitled Bigycin Bilas, written in Sambat 1775. 
It is a treatise on the different philosophical doctrines of the Hindus, 
and recommends the Vedantic system and a mystic life. It is written 
in the form of a dialogue between a preceptor and his disciple. There 
is a copy of the work in the Mack. CoU. See Garcin de Tassy, i, 182. 

321. fW^ •TTTrSTT') 6V6 Nardyan, the Raj'put of the Neri- 
vana tribe, of Chanddwan, near Gfidzlpur. Fl, cir. 1735 A.D. 

The founder of the sect of Sib NdrainTs. He flourished in the 
reign of Muhammad Shah (1719—1748). He was a voluminous 
writer in the inculcation of his doctrines, and eleven books in Hindi 
verse are ascribed to him. These are entitled (1) Lao or Law Granth, 
(2) Sant Bilas, (3) Bhajan Granth, (4) Sant Sundar, (5) Guru Nyas, 
(6) Sdntaohdrl, (7) Sdntopades, (8) Sabddball, (9) Sant Par'wdn, 
(10) Sant Mahima, (11) Sant Sdgar. There is also a twelfth, the seal 
of the whole, but it has not yet been divulged, remaining in the 



§ 326.] THE EIGHTEENTH CENTUET. 87 

exclusive possession 6f the head of the sect. Cf. Wilson, Religious 
Sects of the Hindus, i, 359, quoted by Garcin de Tassy, i, 476. 

322. ^T^ WTi i«/ <//» tlie Kayasth of Kadhala, district 
Muzaffar'nagar. Fl. 1751 A.D. 

In the above year he wrote a commentary to the Bhaht Mala 
(see No. 51) entitled Bhakt Urbasl. 

323. WT ^W^ "^^t Jag Man Das, the Chandela of 
Kot'wa, district BarabagHl. Fl. 1761 A.D. 

He was -founder of the Satya Ndml sect, and also wrote poems in 
the vernacular. Amongst his successors and disciples may be mentioned 
Jaldli Das, Dulam Das, and Debl Das (No. 487), aU of whom were 
poets. He and they excelled in the quietistic style. Amongst his 
works may be mentioned the Gyan Par'hds, the Mahd-par'lai, and 
the Pratham Grantfi. See Wilson, Religious Sects of the Sindns, 
p. 357 ; Garcin de Tassy, i, 256. 

324. "^^T TTT, Duiha Ram. FL 1776 A-D. 

He became a Rdm Sanehl in 1776, and died in 1824. He was 
third spiritual teacher of the sect. He left about 10,000 Sabuds and 
4,000 Sahhls. See Garcin de Tassy, i, 161. 



Part II,— Other Poet?, 

[Arranged as far as possible according to their patrons, or the states to 
which they were attached.] 

325, W f%"l^ ^T^TT, Raja Jai Sijjgh Sawai, the Kachh'- 
wahd, of Amsr. Reigned 1699—1743 A.D. 

He was not only a patron of poets, but wrote his own auto- 
biography, entitled Jai Sirjgh Kalpadrum, which is a valuable historical 
work He was one of the most remarkable men of his time. See 
Tod's Rdjdsthdn, ii, 356-68 (Calc. ed. 393—407).- 

326. ^Xf7{ t^^T? SamtiMisar.oi^g'ra. F1.1720A.D. 

F 4 



88 THE MODERN LIIEEAET HISTOET OF HINDtfSTAN. [§ 327. 

Sud. The author of an esteemed commentary on the Sat Scii of 
Biharl Lai (No. 196), also of a work entitled Saras Ras (Rag.), a 
Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87), a commentary to the Rasik Priya (see 
No. 134), and a work on rhetoric entitled Alarjkdr Mala, During 
the reign of Muhammad Shah (1719 — 1748) he translated the Baitdl 
Pachls'i (Rag.) into Braj Bhakha under orders of Jai Sijjgh SawaJ 
(No. 325, 1699—1743) from the Sanskrit l/etdia Pahchavimatika of 
Ciua Dasa, The Braj Bhakha version is the .foundation of the well- 
known Hindustani version of LallQ J'l Lai (see No. 629). See Garcin 
de Tassy, i, 306, 484, and also preface to the last-named work. 



A.D. 



327. fsF^'T ^f^, the poet Krish'n, of Jmpur. Fl. 1720 



He was a pupil of the poet Biharl Ldl (No. 196), and entered the 
service of Raja Jai Sirjgh (No. 325) SawaJ. He wrote a poetical 
commentary on Biharl Lai's Sat Sal together with a supplementary 
gloss. Cf. No. 180. 



338. fsnm TT^ W\^-^ the poet Kripa Ram, of Jmpur. 
Fl. 1720 A.D. 

He was one of the astronomers of Raja Jai Siggh Sawdl (No. 325). 
He wrote an astronomical work in the vernacular called Samay-bodh 
(? Samay-ogh). 

329. 'ft^^ ^fk-) the poet Mohan. Fl. 1720 A.D. 
He attended the court of Raja Jai Siygh Sawdl (No. 325). Cf. 
No. 284, 



330. ^ TTofV Buddh Raw, the Hdrd. Fl. 1710—1740 A.D. 

He was raja of BOindJ, and was married to the sister of Jai Sirjgh 
Sawdl, of ^mer (No. 325). Bahadur Shdh (1707—1712), the 
emperor, owed him in great measure his throne in the contest with his 
brother '^iam. Buddh also saved him in the rebellion of Say y ad 
Bar'hdnd in 1724 and restored him to power. For his signal services 
in the contest for the emperor's throne he was granted the title of 
Raw Raja. He was conquered and deposed about 1740 by his brother- 



§ 334.] ' THE EIGHTEENTH CENTUBT. 89' 

in-law Jaa Siiggli. He was himseli a poet and a patron of poets. 
See Tod, ii, 482 and fiE..(Calc. ed. ii, 528 and &.). 

331. MT^ fT^T ^f^, the poet Bhoj Misar the elder. 
Fl. 1720 A.D. 

He attended the court of Buddh Raw (No. 330), and was the 
author of a work entitled Misar SirOgar. 

332. ^T; ^tT^ ^"W") ^^J^ ^'"' ^'^^^' ^'S9fi «^««s Bhupat'i 
Kabi, of Amethl, in Audh. Fl. cir. r720 A.D. 

Sat., Sun. He was not only a poet himself, but was a great patron 
of poets. In Sun. he is called Chhitipdl. Garcin de Tassy, i, 121, 
mentions a BhUpati or Bha Deo, but a Kayasth by caste, the author of 
a work in Hindi verse entitled Sri Bhagawat. Cf. No. 604. 

333. *n'T«^«f|' T\m Wt^-) Bhag'want Ray the Khhhl. 
of Asothar, district Fatih'pur. Fl. 1750 A.D. 

? Sun.. He was son of one ArarQ, founder of the Asothar family. 
He maintained his independence for several years, and successfully 
opposed the emperor's troops, but finally, in 1760, was killed by 
treachery, and was succeeded by his son RQp Ray. See Growse, Supple- 
ment to the Fatih'pur Gazetteer, pp. 5, 8, where 1860 is a misprint 
for 1760. He was author of a Ramdyan, and ancestor of Kam'td 
Par' sad (No. 644). He is possibly the same as Bhag'want Kabi and 
as a Bhag'wdn Kabi, both mentioned by Sib Siggh ; and as a Bhag'- 
want Kabi quoted in Sun. 

334. ^^ 5n^ f^^T^ ^fw'i'5[«? Uday Nath Tribedl, 
the poet-laureate, of Ban'pard, in the Dodb. Fl. cir. 1720 A.D. 

Sat. He was son of Kdlidds Tribedi (No. 159), the author of the 
H ajar a, and was as famous a poet as his parent. At first he attended 
the court of king Himmat Siygh, of Amethl (cf. No. 160), and usually 
signed his poems as by Uday Ndth, Subsequently the king gave him 
the title of Kablndr' or poet-laureate, and thereafter he signed himself 
Kablndr'. He got the title as a reward for writing a work entitled 
Ras-chandroday, or Rati-binod or Chandroday, or Ras-chandrikd. It 
deals with vernacular composition (*tT^T tilf^!^), and was written 



90 THE MODEBN IITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDfrSTiN. [§ 335. 

Sambat 1804 (A.D. 1747). Subsequently he stayed a short time with 
king Gur Ddtt' Sirjgh (No. 332), of AmSthl, with Bhag'want Ray 
(No. 333), Khkhh of Asothar (d. 1760), with Gaj Siggfi, Raja of 
^J'mer,' and with king Buddh Raw, Hara, of Bundl (1710—1740) 
(No. 330). By all these was he highly honoured. 

It may be mentioned that there was another Kabindr' Tribedi, 
of fief/, m the district of Ray Barelh who also was a poet of 
repute. 

335. ^^ ^ «Rf^") the poet Sukh DSb, of the Doab. Fl. 
cir. 1750 A.D. 

He is possibly the same as the SuHh Deb Misar, of Daulat'pur 
(No. 356), or as the other poet of the same name of KampilS (No. 160). 
He attended the court of Bhag'want Ray, Khhhl (No. 333) (d. 1760), 
of Asothar, in Fatih'pur. 

336. ^ ^^ 'K'f^i the poet Bhu Dhar, of Asothar, district 
Fatih'pur. Fl. cir. 1750 A.D. 

He attended the court of Bhag'want Ray, Khkhl (No. 333) (d. 
1760), of Asothar, in Fatih'pur. 

337. T^ ^f«r, the poet Mall. Fl. cir. 1750 A.D. 

'He attended the court of Bhag'want Ray, Khhhl (No. 333) (d. 
1760), of Asothar, in Fatih'pur. 

338. ■^'5 *^"^^ ^'f^''^ ^^' the poet Sambhu Nath Misar, 
of Asothar, district Fatih'pur. Fl. cir. 1750 A.D. 

Sat. He attended the court of Bhag'want Ray, Khkhl (No. 333) 
(d. 1760), of Asothar, in Fatih'pur. He was author of (1) Ras Kaiiol, 
(2) Ras Tarayginl, (3) Alagliar Dlpati. He was preceptor of the poet 
Sib Ar'sSia (No. 339), and of many other poets. 

339. "T^^ ^Tr^^T ^f^, the poet and bard Sib Ar'sSia, of 
Deutahq, district Gbda. Fl. cir. 1770 A.D. 

1 1 can find no mention of this Raja in Tod. 



§344.'! THE EIGHTEENTH CENTT7ET. 91 

He was a pupQ of Sambhu l\ldth Misar (No. 338), of Asothar, in 
Fatih'pur, and became teacher of Jagat Sirjgh Bisen (No. 340), He 
wrote a work on Temacular composition (^Tf%f!r) entitled Rasik Bilas. 
He also wrote (2) Alatjkar Bhakhan ; (3) a prosody. 

340. WTrT f%^ Jagat Sitjgh, the Bisen. Fl. cir. 1770 A.D. 

He belonged to the family of the Raja of Goda and Bhin'ga. He 
was t^alluq'dar of Deutaha, in which village resided the bard Sib 
ArsSia (No, 339). He became a pupil of bis in the art of poetry, and 
wrote a treatise on prosody named Ghhand Sriijgar. He also wrote 
a treatise on rhetoric (^<!l*IK:) entitled Sahitya Sudha-nidhi. Cf. 
No. 605. 

341. Wr ^ra ^f^^ the poet Syam Lai, of Jahanabad. 
Fl. cir. 1750 A.D. 

Sud. (?) He attended the court of Bhag'want Ray, Kfihfii (No. 333) 
(d. 1760), of Asothar. in Fatih'pur. Cf. No. 269. 

342. T^«(l^^ IViwaj {Nawaz), the Brahman of Bundel'hhand. 
Fl. cir. 1750. 

He attended the court of Bhag'want Ray Kh'ich'i (d. 1760), of 
Asothar, in Fatih'pur. Possibly the same as No. 448. 



343. '^TTW ^f^? the poet Sararjg, of Asothar, district 
Fatih'pur. Fl. cir. 1750 A.D. 

He attended the court of BhawanT Sirjgh, Khkhh nephew of Bhag'- 
want Ray, Khtohl (No. 333) (d, 1760), of Asothar. in Fatih'pur. 

344. ■ffl'^T'ft "^^1 Bhihharl Das, the Kayasth, of Ar'wai, 
in Bundel'hhand. B, 1723. 

He is counted as one of the masters of vernacular composition. 
Amongst his works may be mentioned (1) a treatise on prosody 
eniii\<A Chhandornab, {2) Ras-sardns, (3) Kabya-nir'nay, {i) Sriggar- 
nir'nay. (5) Bag Bahar. (6) Prsm-ratnakar. In No. 3 a number of 
poets are mentioned. It is quoted in this work as ' Nir,' 



92 THE MOBKBN LITEEAET giSTOHT OF HINDtfSTlN. [§ 345r 

345. T'lfT ^T ^f^Xnr? the poet-laureate Giri Dhar. of 
the Doab. B.niS. 

Rag. He was the famous author of verses on morals and occasional 
pieces in the Kundaliya metre. He is considered the greatest master 
of thia metre. See Kellogg's Hindi Grammar, Prosody, p. 25. 
Possibly the same as No. 483. 

346. '^T ♦T *rf ^ the bard Kamn, of Par'na {Panna), in Bundel'- 
khand. B. 1737. 

He composed under the patronage of Eajas Sctbfld Sijjgh (cf. ISo. 
155) and Hir'dai Sdhi, the Bundelas of Par'na {Pannd), a commentary 
on the Sat Sal of Bihari (No. 196) entitled the Sahitya Chandrika. 
He was skilled at impromptu versification, and at completing unfinished 
verses given to him suddenly as a test of skill, and this gained him 
many gifts and honours, The date given is taken from Sib Singh, 
but I can find no trace of any king of Par'na called Sabha Siggh. The 
Report of the Arch. Sur. Ind. xxi, 112, mentions a Hir'dS Sahi of 
Panna who succeeded his father Chattr' Sal in A.D, (? Sambat) 1718. 
Of. No. 504. 

347. ^"RS^ "^ ^»f¥^ the poet Unand Ghan, of DHIr. 
Fl. 1720 ; D. 1739 A.D. 504. 

Eag., Sun. Sib Siggh states that his poems are as brilliant as the 
sun. He has never seen any complete work of his, but has as many 
as five hundred short pieces by him. According to the Sahitya 
Bhukhan of Mahddeo Par'sdd he was a Kayasth by caste, and was 
Muhammad Shah's (1719—1748) Munshi. Before his death he retired 
to Brindaban, and was killed in the capture of Mathurd by Nadir 
Shah. His best known work is the Sujdn Sdgar. He is possibly the 
same as another ^nand Kabi mentioned by Sib Siiggh as born in 1654 
A.D., and the author of a work on sexual intercourse entitled Kok Sdr 
(Rag.). He sometimes signed himself Ghan ^nand. 

348. ^^^ f%^T Hf , Jugul Kishor Bhatt, of Kaithal, 
district Kar'ndl, in the Punjab. Fl. 1740 A.D. 

He was a prominent figure among the attendants at the court of 
the emperor Muhammad Shah (1719—1748). In Sambat 1803 (A.D. 



§ 351.] THE EIGHTEENTH CENTCET. 93 

1746) he wrote a first-rate work on rhetoric (^^^t) entitled the 
Alatjhar-nidhi, in which he has described ninety-six alaykaras with 
examples. He states in this work that there were four principal poets 
attending his own court, named, respectively, RuClr' Mam Misar 
(No. 352), Suhh Lai (No. 354), Sant Jib (No. 353), and Guman Jl 
Misar (No. 349). A number of detached poems by him are included 
in a compilation entitled the Kishor Saggrah. He is possibly the same 
as a Jugul Kishor Kabi mentioned by Sib Singh (without date) as 
an erotic writer. 

349. ^iTT^ ^*^ fii^T? Guman Jl Misar, of 8arl, district 
Har'doL Fl. 1740 A.D. 

He was skilled in composition and in Sanskrit. He attended the 
court of the emperor Muhammad Shah (1719—1748) of Dilll, under 
the protection of Jugul Kishor Bhatt (No. 34S). Subsequently he 
attended the court of 'All Ak'bar Khan MuhammadJ, who was himself 
an excellent poet, and who had in his service Nidhan (No. 350), Prem 
Ndth (No. 351), and other great poets. Guman Ji wrote the Kala 
Nidhi, which is an excellent liae-for-Une commentary in various metres 
on the Haisadha of Qrl Harsa. He also wrote a special commentary 
named Salil^ on the PahohanalJya, which is the name of a difficult 
portion of the Naisadha. He is possibly the same as another 
Guman Kabi mentioned by Sib Singh as born In 1731, and author 
of a work entitled Krish'n Chandriha. 

350. f?n?'R, Nidhan, the Brahman. Fl. 1751 A.D. 

He attended the cotirt of 'All Ak'bar Khan Muhammadl, where he 

had great repute. He wrote a highly poetical Sdlihotr' or treatise 
on veterinary surgery in the vernacular. He was a feUow courtier of 
Guman Jl Misar (No. 349) and Prem Nath (No. 351). 

351. JT^T IT^, Prem Nath the Brahman of Kalua, district 
Kherl, in Audh. Fl. 1770 A.D. 

Sun. He attended the court of 'All Ak'bar Khan Muhammadl, 

and translated the Brahmottarakharfda into the vernacular. He was a 

^^ 

> Or Sib Siflgh, from whom this is taken, may mean that he made the 
Panchanaliya as clear as water. 



94 THE MODIJIN LITEKABY HISTOfiT OP HINDtJSTAN. TS 352, 

fellow courtier with Guman Jj Misar (No. 349) and Nidhan QSo. 350). 
He is possibly the same as a Prem Kabi quoted by Sib Singh. 

353. ^^» Tf^ f'T^T;, Rudr' Mani Misar, the Brahman. 
Fl. 1740 A.D. 

He attended the court of Jugul Kishor Bhatt (No. 348) at Dillh 

353. ^"^ ^^ ^f¥, the poet Sunt Jib. Fl. 1740 A.D. 
He attended the court of Jugul Kishor Bhatt (No. 348). 

354. ^W ^T^ ^1%? the poet Sukh Lai, Fl. 1740 A.D. 
Sud, He attended the court of Jugul Kishor Bhatt (No. 348); 

355. '^f^ IW, Hari Nath, of Guj'rat, afterwards of 
Banaras. B. 1769 A.D, 

The author of a treatise on rhetoric entitled Alatjltar Dar'pan. 
He is possibly the same as a Hari Nath mentioned by Garcin 
de Tassy (i, 218) as author of the PothT Shah Muhammad Shah'i 
or History of Muhammad Shah (1719 — 1748), of which a manu- 
script is preserved in the British Museum, No. 6651B, Additional 
Manuscripts. 

356. ^^ %^ f'T^^ ^f%, the poet Sukh Deb Misar. 
of Dmiat'pur, district Ray Bare!]. Fl. 1740 A.D. 

He attended the court of Eaw Mar'dan Siggh Bais, of Ddun'yd 
"Khera, in Audh, and wrote in his name a treatise on lovers (see 
note to No. 87) entitled Rasar'nab (Rag.). The bard Sambhu 
Nath (No. 357) was his pupQ. See Garcin de Tassy, i, 479. Cf. 
No. 335. 

357. ^'^ ITHT ^f^, the poet and bard Sambhu Nath. 
FL 1750 A.D."^ 

He was pupil of Suhh Deb Misar (No. 356), of Daulat'pur, and was 
author of a Ramdyan entitled Ram Bilas. Cf. No. 366. 



§ 359.] THE EiaHTlENTH CENTUET. 95 

358. ^^T f^^"^, Diilah TribMi, oi Ban'pQrd, in the 
Doab. Fl. 1746 A.D. 

Sat. He was son of Uday Nath Tn'bedl (No. 334), and grandson 
of Kalidas Tribedi (No. 159), the celebrated compiler of the Hajard. 
He wrote a work of great authority on vernacular composition (iTRrr 
WTf%si) entitled Kabi-hul Kanthdbharan. 



359. '^^ ^ ^f^, the poet Bal Deb. of Bag fiel'lt hand. 
Fl. 1746 A.D. 

He attended the court of king Bihram Shah, the Baghel of Dewara- 
nagar.^ In the above year, at the suggestion of this prince, he 
compiled an anthology entitled Sat-habi-gim Bilds (quoted in this 
work as 'Sat.') which contains poems by seventeen diflEerent authors, 
viz. — ^ 

(1) Kesab Das (No. 134). 

(2) Chintamani (No. 143). 

(3) Mati Ram (No. 146). . 

(4) Sambhu Nath, Sularjkl (No. 147). 

(5) Nil Kanth (No. 148). 

(6) Kalidas Tribedi (No. 159). 

(7) Suhh Deb Misar, of Kampila (No. 160). 

(8) Biharl Ldl (No. 196). 

(9) Kesab Ray (No. 300). 

(10) Rabi Datt' (No. 304). 

(11) Guf Datt' Siijgh, of Amethl (No. 332). 

(12) Uday Nath Tribedi (No. 334). 

(13) Sambhu Nath Misar (No. 338). 

(14) Dalah (No. 358). 

(15) Himmati Bahadur {l<io.S77).^ 

(16) Biswa Nath Atal (No. 410). 

(17) MuhundLal (No.-560). 
He also wrote poetry himself. 



' This must be a difEerent person from the well-known Bihram Sahl (No. 514 ), 
of Char'kharl, who was horn 1785 A.D. Curiously enough a Bal Deb also 
attended his court. 

' Himmati Bahadur flourished in 1800 A.D., but he must have been an 
old man then. 



96 THE MODERN LITEEAET HISTOBY OF HINDfJSTjN. [§ 360. 

360. T*r«^T^ *liT^ Man'bodh J ha alias BfiOlan J ha, of 
Jam'sam, district Dar'bhatjga. Fl. 1750 A.D. 

One of the most celebrated poets of Mithila. Little is known 
about him beyond the facts that he married the daughter of one 
Bhikhdrl Jhd, and that his only child, a daughter, was ancestress of 
the present Maharaj of Dar'bhaigga. He composed a version of the 
Hariuariioa in the Maithill dialect, entitled Han'bnns. Only ten 
adhyayas have come down to us, but these enjoy great popularity. 
See J. A. S. B., 1882, p 129, and 1884, Sp. No. 

361. ■^^^, Kesab. Fl. 1775 A.D. 

A Maithil poet, who attended the court of Raja Par'tap Siggh, 
who was himself a poet, under the alias of Mod Ndfdyan (No. 362). 
See J. A. S. B., vol. liii, p. 89. 

362. ^^ •ITTT^T? Mod Ndrayan alias naja. Par'tap Sirjgh. 
Fl. c. 1775 A.D. 

A king of Mithila, who was a poet. He was son of IVarSndta 
Sirjgh, of Dar'bhatjga the victor of Kanar'pl Ghat (see Lai Jha, 
No. 363), and was the fifth in ascent before the present Maharaj. 
See J. A. S. B., vol. liii, p. 82. The poet Kesab attended his court 
(No. 361). 

363. ^^ *RT, Lai Jha or Kabi Lai, of Mag'rauni, district 
Dar'bharjga. Fl. 1780 A.D. 

One of the most famous poets of Mithila. The author of the 
poem entitled Kanar'pl Ghat Ldrah See J. A. S. B., vol. Hv, p. 16. 

His patron was Narendra Sirjgh, who gave him the village of 
Kanail as a reward for the poem. This village is now owned by his 
descendants. 

364. fTTT^ U^l Tirath Raj, the Brahman, of Bais'wara. 
B. 17U3 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja Aehal Siggh Bais, of Dduriyd Khera, 
in Audh, and at his command he translated in the year 1750 A.D. 
th& Samara. Sara into the vernacular. 



§ 369.1 '^^^ EiaaiEEMTH cBNiuEr. 97 

365. ^^ f^'lf^ ^f^") the poet Dayci Nidh'i, of Bais'iuSLra. 
B. 175U. 

He wrote a treatise entitled. Sdlihotr', dealing with veterinary 
surgery, at the instance of Raja Aohal Siggh Bais, of Ddun'ya Khsrd, 
mAudh. Of. No. 787. 

366. ^^ TTS^ ^f^ t^Xn^Vi the poet SambhU' N&t 
TripathL Fl. 1752 A.D.. 

Eag. He is possibly the same as Sambhu Nath (No. 357), author of 
the Ram Silas. He attended the court of RajS Aohal Siggh Bais, of 
Dduriija Khera, in Audh. Under the name of Raw Raghu Nath Sirjgh 
he wrote in the above year a vernacular translation of the Sanskrit 
Vstala PaHohaulfiioatika of Giua Dasa under the title of Baitdl PachlsT 
(Rag.). He also translated the astrological MuhHrta Chintdmani, into 
the vernacular in yarious metres. 



367. ^^T ^Rff^, the poet Sadan. B. 1753 A.D. 

He attended the court of Sujdn Sirjgh, son of Badan Sirjgh. In 
one poem ten verses mentioned by Sib Siggh containing the 
names of several poets are praised by him. Nine of these verses 
Jiave been lost, and Sib Siijgh is only able to give the last, which 
(quoted in this work as 'Sud') contains the foUowing names : — • 
Saneh'i, Sabal Sirjgh, Sar'b Suhh, Sib Das, Sib Ram, Sutih Lai, 
Sunam (?), SumSri, SQraj, Surati, Senapat'i, Selih, Som Nath, 
Syam Lai, Sri Dhar, Sri Rati, Hari, Hari Das, Hari Bans, Harl Har, 
Hiras (?), Hit Ram, Husen. 

368. Tl" ^T^ ^f^t the poet Ragg Lai. B. cir. 1750. 
He attended the court of Sujan Sirjgh, the son of Badan Sirjgh. 

369. ^^ «rWt ^T^i ^^«/ ^«s^ ^«s, of Brindaban, the 
Dodb. PI. 1770 A.D. 

Rag., Sun., ? Srigg. Sib Siggh says he was born 1753 A.D. He 
wrote in the year 1770 A.D. a work entitled Braj Biias (Rag.), 
descriptive of Krish'n's life during his residence at Brindaban. (See 
Wilson, Religious Sects of the Eindns, p. 132, and Garcin de Tassy, 



98 THE MODBEN UTBEAEY HISTOBY OF HIMDOsTlN. [§ 370. 

i, 131.) He is possibly the same as another Braj Bdsl Das alias Das 
Braj Bdsl mentioned (without date) by Sib Siggh as having translated 
the play PmbodhcL Chandrodaya into the vernacular (Eag.). 

370. 'ehi,4 ^T«r ^•^I^T? the poet and bard Karan, of 
Jodh'pur in Mar' war. Fl. cir. 1730 A.D, 

A poet of the Rathaar Maharajs. He wrote a work entitled the 
SOrya Par'kds under the patronage of Maharaj Abhay Siggfi (1724— 
1750), the Eathaor, son oiAjit Siggh (No. 195). It is 7,500 §lokas in 
length, and gives a history of the time from MahSraj Jas'want Siggh 
(1638—1681) down to Abhay Siggh (1731 A.D.). Cf. Tod, i, xiv; ii, 
4, 91, 107; Calc. ed. i, xiii; ii, 4, 99, 117. Tod gives an anecdote 
and quotation from this poet in ij, 120 ; Calc. ed. ii, 131. 

371. f^ ^W'> Bfiai Siggh, Mahaxajoi Jodh'pur, m llSdr'- 
ujdr. Reigned 1753— 1784 A.D. 

He was an author himself, and got written the Bijai Bilds, a 
historical work of 1,00,000 couplets, narrating the war between BijM 
Siiggh and his cousin Ram Siggh, the son of Abhay Siggh. It 
was in consequence of this war that the Marathas entered the state 
of Mar'war. Sib Siiggh wrongly states he was king of UdaipuKt 
in MewSr. See Tod's Rajasthan, i, xiv ; ii, 4, 121 (Calc. ed. i, xiii ; 
ii, 4 ; 134 and £E.). 

372. TTT ^T^^ the poet Htdn, Brahman, of Bais'wdra. 
Fl. 1761 A.D. 

He wrote in the above year a vernacular translation of the Krima 
Khanda entitled Krish'n Kallol. The commencement of this work 
contains an important genealogy from ^dliudhana to Champat'l Ray 
( ? the father of Chhattr' Sdl, No. 197). 

373. '3FJT "^im ^f^, the poet Chhem Karan, the Brahman 
of DhansalT, district BdrdbagfiT. B. 1771 A.D. 

He was author of (1) Rdm Ratndltar, (2) Rdmdspad (?), (3) (?u/"0 
Kathd, (4) ^A/j/A, (5) Ram-Git Mala, (6) Krish'n-Charitamrit, [7) Pad 
Bilds, (8) Raghu-rdj Ghandchhari, (9) Britt-Bhdshar, and other 
excellent works. He died in 1861, at the age of ninety.. 



§ 377.] THE EIGHTEENTH OENTUBY. 99 

374. '^•^•T ^"R ^f^-) the poet and bard Chandan Ray, 
of Nahil i? Mahil) Puuiawa, district Shah-Jahan-pur. Fl. 1773 A D. 

He attended the court of ESja Kesarl Siggh, of Gaur. Under his 
name he wrote the Kesarl Par'kas, Amongst his other works ^lay be 
mentioned an important poem entitled the Srirjgdr-S&r, the KallQl 
TaragginT (dated 1789 A.D.), the Kabyabharan, the Chandan Sat SaT, 
and the Pathihbodh. AH these are highly esteemed. He had twelve 
pupils, all of whom became successful poets. The most celebrated was 
the poet Man Bhawan (No. 375), A descendant of his was Utaft'rand 
Ray (No. 610). 

375. ^T ITTSTT^ /If a/j flAowan, a Brahman, of A/ffr/i/^, district 
Shah-Jahan-pur. Fl. 1780. 

Eag. He was the most successful of the twelve pupils of Chandan 
Ray (No. 374). His best work is the Sriggar RatnabalT. 

376. TfTT ^^Ti Bibi Ratan KHar, of Banaras. B. cir. 
1777 A.D. 

Authoress of an account of devotees of Krish'n, entitled PrSm 
Ratna. She was grandmother of Eaja Shiua Prasad, O.S.I. (No. 699) . 
This gentleman writes to me as follows concerning her: — 'My grand- 
mother, Bibi Ratan KQar, died some 45 years ago ' (written in 1887), 
'when I was only 19 years old, attending the court of Colonel 
Sutherland, the Governor-General's Agent at Aj'mer, as Wakil of the 
late Maharaj 6i Bharat'pur. Her age was between 60 and 70 when she 
left this^ world, but I regret I cannot give you exact dates. Besides 
the Prem Ratna, she composed many padas. I have a manuscript 
book, called Pad hi Pothl, in which she has written here and there 
with her own hands her padas. She was a good musician, and wrote 
a beautiful hand. She was well versed in Sanskrit, and knew a little 
Persian too. She knew medicines, and the best part of the little 
knowledge I may be credited with, I acquired from her.' 

377. ^^•«r'tl f^'^f Jas'want Siggh, the Bhagela, of 
Rajatir'wa, in Kanauj. Fl. 1797 A.D, 

He was learned in Sanskrit and Persian. He compiled from other 
works on composition ( ^rffW ) a work on lovers (see note to No. 87) 
entitled Sn'ggar Siromani. He also wrote a famous treatise on 

G 2 



100 



THB MODBEN LITEEAET HISTOEY OF HINDftSTlW. 



[§ 378. 



rhetoric {^K^rffXx), founded on the Sanskrit ChandralOha, entitled 
Bhahha BhDkhan (Rag.)» ^^^ ^ treatise on veterinary surgery 
entitled Salihsif' (RSg.). All these are excellent works. He died in 
1814 A.D. The Bhakha Bhukhan has had numerous commentators, 
amongst whom the following may be mentioned : — Par'tdp Sahi 
(?) (No. 149), Ndrayan Ray (No. 572), Giri Dhar Banar'sT (No. 580), 
Dal'pati Rag (No. 635), Bansi Dhar (No. 636), an anonymous poet of 
Uniyara (No. 660), Hari (No. 761). It has been printed at Banaras 
in . Sambat 1943 (1886) by Ambika Charan Chattopadhyaya. 
A Bombay edition identifies the- author with J as' want Siggh 
' (1638—1681) of Mar'war, but this is very doubtful. See No. 149 
and No. 149 Add. 

378. fT'il^ '^TT^T^ Gosll mwab Himmati Bahadur. 
Fl. 1800 A.D. 

Sat. His court was attended by many j)oets, including Thakur 
(who saved' his life; see No. 173) and Ram Saran. Askand 
Giri (No. 527) was descended from him. 

He was a military guru or soldier-saint, who Commanded a large 
force of gosSis or religious devotees in the army of Sendhiya. He 
instigated 'All Bahadur to attempt the conquest of Bundel'khand, ,but 
ultimately went over to the English during the second Maratha war 
(1803 — 1806). He must have been an old man then, as poems by him 
are quoted in Sat., which was written in 1746. 

379. TTfl ^TT ^ftr, the poet Ram Saran, of Hamlr'pur, 
district Itawa. Fl. 1800 A.D. 

380. TTT f%"^ efifsi, the poet RamSiijgh, of BundSl'- 
fihahd. Fl. 1800 A.D. 

These two attended the court of Himmati Bahadur. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER IX. 



381. ^if^ ^, the poet 'Adil. 
B. iros A.D. 

Sib Siggh tas seen detached pieces 
by him, but ho complete work. 

382. 1«5I "^f^ ^5f^> the poet 
Braj Chand. B. 1703 A.D. 



383. »^5f ^fV, the poet Bhaun 
the elder, of Bundel'khatfcl B. 1703 
A.D. 

An erotic poet. 

384. fr%^ ^ft', the poet 
Mah'bab (Mahbab), B. 1705 A.D. 



§ 408.] 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTBE IX. 



101 



385. ftrsfk ^T*: ^f^, the poet 
Kisher Sar. B. 170i A.D. 

Srigg., Sun. He has written many 
poems in the chhappaSi, metre. 

386. M^ f^Wk ^, the 
poet Madan Kisher. Fl. 1710 A.D. 

He attended the court of Bahadur 
SAaA (1707— 1712). Cf.No.50. 

387. ^^ T-HT ^_ f^mi\, 
the poet DayO. Rim Tripathi. B 1712. 

A quietistic (^nt% T5) poet. Pos- 
sibly the same as a Dayo. Ram men- 
tioned, by Sib -Siggh (without date) 
as author of a lexicographical work 
entitled AnSkdrth. 

388. q'lfl^^pf, the poet 
Pandurik. B. 1713. 

389. 11 ^f«r, the poet Gadu, 
of R&i'putana. B. 1713. 

The emblematic (^^) and occa- 
sional verses by him in the chhappm 
metre are famous. 

390. T^ W(^, Nand Lai. B. 
1717 A.D. 

391. ^rra ^ij** ^^, the poet 
Lai Mukund. fi. 1717. 

An erotic poet. Possibly the same 
as Mukund Lai (No. 660). 

392. Tf ^T, the poet Indd. 
B. 1719 A.D. 

A commonplace poet. 

393. fl^r^ST^ft', the poet 
BraJ Raj, of Bundel'hhand. B. 1718 A.D. 

394. ITf^ laf ^f?r, the poet 
Yakab Khan (Ya'qab). B. 1718 A.D. 

He wrote a commentary to the 
Rasik-priya (see No. 134). 

395. ^^?^«r, Bir'bal alias 
Blr'ban a Kayasth of Dilll. Fl. 1722 
A.D. 

, The author of a work on composi- 
tion (^TfVi*t) entitled Krish'n Chan- I 
driki, written in the above year. j 



396. tTSIT JXf{ ^f«r, the poet 
Raja Ram. B. 1721 A.D. 

An erotic poet. Cf. No. 233, 

397. '^TT^^ 'af ^fk, the poet 
iln'tt/a/- /r/ian. B. 1723 A.D. 

He wrote a commentary on the 
Sat Sal of Bihan (No. 196), and a work 
called the An'war Chandrika, or 
possibly this last is the title of the 
commentary. 

398. ■^^T^ f%f , Gulal Siggh. 
B. 1723. 

399. t^ ^F^, the poet BScha. 
B. 1723. 

400. ^^ TITT ^fV, the poet 
Braj Nath. B. iT'^S A.D. 

The author of an admired work 
entitled Rag ll/laia (Eag.). Cf. No. 904. 

401. Tg JTHI ^f^r, the poet 
Braj Nath. B. 1723 A.D. 

402. Tf^fK ^, the poet 
Manohar. B. i725. 

403. TfT ^, the poet iWaAa 
(? the great poet). Fl. 1733 A.D. 

Sun. 

404. TV Tm ^ the poet 
flas ffay. B. 1723 A.D. 

The author of a good Nakh'aikh 
(see note to No. 87). 

405. "^f^V^fk^^iRaaikBiharh 
B. il?55 A.D. 

Eag. 

406. <rif? »Tfsf, flurf/-' i!/an/, the 
Chaahan. B. 1723. 

407. ^M f^T» Eaja flo/ %gA, 
of BundSl'khand. B. i^^i A.D. 

The author of a work entitled PrSm 
Paydnidhi, dealing with the loves and 
sports of Eadha and Krish'n. 

408. ^TT ^VH, Pran Nath, of 
Kota. B.1734. 

He attended the court of the Eaja 
of Kota. 

g3 



.102 



THE MODEEN LITEEAEY HISTOBY OF HINDfJSTiN. 



0§ 409. 



409. ^<4i;'t*K ^ifV, the poet 
Jul'phekar (Zu'lfaqar). B. 173S A.D. 

He wrote a good commentary on 
the Sat Sal of BMrl (No. 196). 

410. ^i'ra 'niT ^ff^, the poet 
Kamal Nayan, of B.undBrhhan</. B. 
1727 A.D. 

He was a prolific erotic writer, but 
no complete work of his is known. 
His poems are said to possess meritt 

411. ft'^Q "riTf ^dli., Biswa 
Nath AW, of Bundel'khandl. B. 1727. 

Sat. 

412. Tf^ ^ft, the poet 
Manchit. B. 1728. 

413. fsrrr^^ff^* the poet 
Biharl, of Bundel'hhatfd. B. i7^9 A.D. 

414. "rft^ ^f^* the poet 
Narind. B. i^Si A.D. 

415. t^ ^'T ^Bt%, the poet 
Ras Rap. B. iT'Si A.D. 

416. ftK THT ^f^, the poet 
Sib Rim. B. 1731 A.D. 

Sud. An erotic writer. 

417. f^ ftr* S/6 Siogh. B. 
ir5i A.D. 

418. ^•<'*JS ^ifsr, the poet 
>1/itfnj/a. B. ifSS A.D. 

Many poems of his, dealing with 
the Vedanta religion and morals, are 
extant. He also wrote didactic 
('teTT^f) poems and vers d'occasion. 
He is possibly the same as another 
Ananya Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh 
as of date unknown, and the author 
of poems in honour of Durga. 

419. ffTTT xrfir ^if^, the poet 
Tara Pati. B. 1733 A.D. 

Srigg. A writer of a Nakh'aikh 
(see note to No. 87). He is possibly 
the same as a Tiri Kabi mentioned 
by Sib Sit|gh as B. (P Fl.) 1779 A.D. 



420. Tl TT^ qffV, the poet 
and bard Ragha Ray, of Bundil'kiiaifd. 
B. 1733. 

His best known work is the 
JamuttH Satak. He is possibly the 
same as a Raghu Ray Kabi mentioned 
by Sib Siggh as B. ( ? M.) 1773 A.D. 

421. 4:5^ ^f ^ff%, the poet 
Isuph (Yaauf) Khan. B. 1734 A.D. 

He wrote, commentaries to the Sat 
Sal of Bitiarf (No. 196) and to the 
Rasik-priya, of KSsab Das (No. 134). 

422. '^Pf ftfT ^ff^, the poet 
and bard Dhan Siggh, of Uaurawi, 
district Unao. B. 173i A.D. 

423. ^T W^, Prim Sakhl. B. 
173AA.T). 

424. *K'sr ^<3 W(^f Sar'b 
SuUi Lai. B. 1734. 

Sud. 

425. Tf^ Trsr "^k, the poet 
Rabi l\latfi, of Bundel'khaifd. B. ir^^ 
A.D. 

An erotic poet. 

426. TW ^TR ^f^, the poet 
/l/a6 Klian, of Bundel'khartd. B. irSS. 

427. «nr t:^ ^1^, the poet 
Jag Deb. B. 1736 A.D. 

428. T?r W«r ^ifk, the poet 
Ras Lai, of Bundsl'khatfd. 'B..1736 
A.D. 

An erotic poet. 

429. ff^ f^ mfk, the poet 
Harl Har. B. 1737 A.p. 

Sud. 

430. t^ ^, the poet 7s. B. 
1739 A.D. 

His erotic and his quietistic poems 
are said to be very charming. 

431. f%^ ^, the poet 'and 
bard 5/6, oi Blfgnm, district Har'd61. 
B. 1739. 



§ 448.] 



ADDENl)A TO CHAPTEE IX. 



103 



Sun. The author of a work in the 
erotic style entitle^ Ras Nidhi. 

432. «tW fM^, T6kh Nidhl, a 
Brahman, of Kampila. Nagar, B. 1741 
A.D. 

The author of three worts— (1) 
Sudha Nidhi, (2) Byaggya Satalt, (3) a 
Nalili'silih (see n«te to No. 87). 

433. ^jfiy««f, PrSmlyaman, the 
Musalman of Diili. B. Ifdl A.D. 

Bag. He wrote an excellent lexi- 
cographical wort in two parts entitled 
AnSltarth (Bag.) and Ncim Mala (Bag.) 
respectively. 

434. 3rigi< grf^, the poet 
Thaiiuik m.l743A.B. 

See the poet Thakur, who fl. 1643 
A.D. (No. 173). 

435. 'fk ^J^MT?, H/llr Ah'mad, 
of Bil'gram, district Har'dol. B. 1743 
A.D. 

436. ^ngTT ^nr ^ffV, the poet 

ilnup flas. B, 1744 A.D. 

Several poems in the kabitta- and 
dohS, metres, and songs in the quiet- 
istic style (9rTi% T^), are extant. 

437. fiTK jrf'T H?, the bard 
Kumar Man'i, of Goiful, in Bray. B. JT'^S 
A.D. 

A stiUed poet, who wrote an 
esteemed wort on composition (^jf^'B) 
entitled Rasiti-macil. 

438. sft^^^iV, the poet J?6an, 
B. 1746 A.D. 

He attended the court of Muham- 
mad -All. 

439. arfW* ^B^, 7a//6 M// 
alias Ras Nsyak, of Bil'grim, district 
Har'ddh B. (P f I.) 1746 A.D. 

An erotic poet. Possibly the same 
as a Jalib 'All mentioned by Sib Siggh 
as 3'l711 AD. 



440. snw, N&th. B. 1746 A.D. 

P Sun. He attended the court of 
one Manili Chand, whose son appears 
to have been named Ichhan, Cf. 
No. 162. 

441. ^^ ^, the poet Pad- 
mss. B.1746A.3. 

442. I'ft ^f^T, the poet POhhl, 
a Brahman of Mmn'purl, in the 0da&. 
B. 1746 A.D. 

Srigg. 

443. TT^I smr. Brahman 
Nath, of BASsr SSrt district //a#-'</5/. B. 
(? Fl.) 1746 A.D. 

Mentioned by Sib - Siggh in con- 
nection with Som Nath {Eo. 447). 

444. XT»T yV«T<, the bard 
Rim Par'sad, of Bil'gram, district 
Har'dei. B. (? Fl.) 1746 A.D. 

Bag. Cf . No. 639. 

445; THT , «!, Ram Bhatt, of 
Purukhabad. B.1746 A.D. 

He attended the court of NaWab 
Qiyam Khan, and was the author of 
(1) Sringar Saiirabh, (2) Bar'wau 
Nayilia Bhsd. (See note to No. 87.) 

446. ^S^TTSI'^ irf^, the poet 
and bard Suhhanand, of Chacheri. B. 
1746 A.D. 

447. ^T smr, S5/M /vatA, of 

Bhdg S&rh district War'rfo/. B. (P Pl. 
1746 A.D. 

Sud. Mentionediby Sib Siggh in 
connection with Brahman Nath 
(No. 443). 

448. Pi4l'»l «f^, the poet 
NiwaJ (Natvjiz), a Muhammadan 
weaver of Bil'gram, district HardSU 
B. 1747. 

An erotic poet. Possibly the same 
as No. 342. To be distinguished 
from No. 198, 

g4 



104 



THE MODEEN LITEEAET HISTOET OF HlNDUSTlS. 



[§449. 



449. ^t^ ^i^, tie poet 
Bddha. 3.174:7K.'D. 

Srigg., Sun. Cf. No. 500. 

450. T^ fqftflT ^f^, tie 
poet Madan Kishor. Fl. 1750 A.J). Cf. 
Wo. 386. 

451. ^m i^lf^ VT, ia/ Giri 
Dhar, of Bais'w&ra. B. i7^50 A.D. 

The autlLor of a learned treatise on 
lovers (see note to No. 87). Perhaps 
the same as Giri Dhar (No. 345). 

452. ^i^fT fnfv? ^f^r, the poet 
/fa/a Nidhi the younger. B. i^SO 
A.D. 

His Nakh'aikh (see note to No. 87) 
is said to be good. 

453. «'f^ ^'ir, Sahh'i Sukh, a 
Brahman of Nar'war, in BundSl'hhan^. 
B. 1750 A.D. 

He was father of KabJndr' (No. 
496), and wrote himself. 

454. TirraT, the bard Narayan, 
of Kikspur, district Kanh'pur. B. i75^ 
A.D. 

The author of a metrical history 
of the Chandela tings of Sib'raJ'pur. 

455. f^flf^ Jftf^, /f/'o/fa*- 
GBbind, of BundSl'khand. B. 1753 

A.D. 

His poems in the quietistic style 
(xrf^ T^) are said to be excellent. 

456. ftif^ ^rra^ ^^1^* the 
poet Krish'n Lai. B. i757 A.D. 

Srit)g. He has written some ad- 
mired love songs, 

457. <H *'•<."? ^>f^, the poet 
Dak'rand. B. 1757. 

Srigg.i Sun. An erotic poet. 

458. ■^^*rr^,y(/es, the, bard, 
of Bundil'khand. B. 1758 A.D. 

A writer of occasional verses. 



459. BJ ^ ^ffar, the poet JSi 
DSb. B. 1738 A.D. 

460. f'fTra, Nihal, a Brahman 
of Nigdha, district Lakh'naB, B. 1763 
A.D, 

461. /^^^ff^, the poet DMr. 
PI. 1765 A.D. 

Srigg. He attended the court of 
the emperor Shah '^lam (1761—1806), 

462. T.^ ^"m ^, the poet 
RasDham. B. 1768 A.J). 

The author of a work entitled 
Alarjkar Chandrika. 

463. f*KTcl I oj ^ffir, the poet 
Sii'Uj, of Bar'dhana. B. 1768. 

* 

464. ^T^ TPT ^if^, the poet 
Kail Ram, of BundSl'khand, B. 1769. 

His poems are said to be good, 

465. snft^Tf'^ ^fV, the poet 
Jasddanand. B. 1771 A,D, 

He wrote a treatise on loverfe (see 
note to No. 87) entitled the Bar'wai 
NayikaBhed. It is in the Ba/r'wda 
metre. K is dated Sambat 1822 
(1765 A.D.), if I read the passage 
(ftft'^fK3%)_coiTectly. In this case 
Scmhat 1828 (1771 A.D.), which Sib 
Siggh gives as the date of the poet's 
birth, is wrong. 

466. ^^ ^ifV, the poet 
Lachchhu. B. 1771 A.I>. 

467. ^W ^if^, the poet 
Bajes, of BundSI'khancl. B, 1774. 

A poet who wrote in praise d 
An up Giri. 

468. »T«T ^, the poet 
Bhanjan. B. 1774 A.D. 

Srigg. 

469. ^rrar trr^gf ^Rf^r; the 

poet Lala Pathak, of Rukum'nagar. B, 
1774 A.D. 



§ 486.] 



ADDENDi TO CHAPTEE IX. 



105 



The author of a Salihett' (Eag.) or 
treatise on veterinary surgery. 

470. Wb5 ^, the poet 
LatJph (Latif). B. 1777. 

An erotic poet. 

471. *)HI«i ^rf^, the poet 
Samman, . a Brahman of Malawi, 
district Har'do}. B. 1777. 

The author of admired. doMs 
onrmorals. 

472. *ItI'I ^ff«r, the poet 
Santan, the Brahman of BindukI, dis- 
trict Fatih'pur. B. 1777 A.D. 

Srigg. 

473. ^IfT^ ^fft", the poet 
Santan, a Brahman of JaJ'mau, district 
t/nao. B. 1777. 

474. f^ ^if^, the poet Siggh. 
B. J^ro. ^ 

Srigg. He is prohably identical 
with some other poet whoso name 
ends in Siijgh. 

475. 'dx ^v Kabi Datt'. B. 
1779 A..J). 

Srir)g., Dig. He is probably the 
same as Deb Datt' (No. 608). 

476. ^ ^^ ^T?r, Madhu 
Sudan Das, the Mathur Brahman of 
lahtahapuri. B. 1782 A.D. 

He translated the RamSLcuaniSdha 
into the vernacular. 

477. 'Tfif^PT^ firet,the 
poet Mani Ram Misar, of KanauJ. 
3.1782. 

Srirjg. He has written one of the 
best works on prosody, the Chhand 
Chhappanl. 

478. TTT Tre ^«f^, the poet 
Ram Das. 3.1782A.V. 

479. f%^ ^ra ^, 5/6 ia/ 

Oufig, of Ddbriya KhSra, district Unas. 
B. 1782 A,D. 



The author of several works, 
amongst them may be mentioned a 
Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87), /f/ia^ 
Ritu (Rag.) (a treatise on the six 
seasons), verses on morals, and comic 
verses. 

480. ■^HM ^, the poet 
Saijgam. B. 1783 A.D. 

Sririg. He attended the court of 
one Siggh Raj. 

481. H^ TTfcT ^fir, the poet 
Gagga Rati. B. 1787 A.D. 

Said to be a tasteful poet. 

482. ^TJIT ^, the ifoet 
Sagar, a Brahman. B. 1786. 

The author of an erotic work 
entitled Bama Man Ranj'an. He 
attended' the court of Tikait Ray. See 
No. 484. 

483. filft -s^ ^, the poet 
and bard Gir'i Dhar, of Hol'pur, district 
BarabagkJ. B. (? PI.) 1787 A.D. 

Possibly the same as No. 346. See 
No. 484. 

484. t'^^ffV, the poet and 
bard Ben] the younger, oiBetT, district 
Ray Barell. B. (B Fl.) 1877 A.D. 

These three attended the court of 
Jikait Ray, Diwan of Nawab Asafu'd- 
daUla (Fl. 1775—1797), of Lakhnaa. 
Beni (? Sun.) died at an old age in or 
about 1835 A.D. 

485. si^rff^ ^, the poet 
and bard Jawahir, of BU'gram, district 
Har'dol. B. 1788 A.J): 

He wrote a book entitled the 
Jawahir Ratnakar. 

486. ^^TkRi^, eulab Siggh, 
the Panjabi. B. 1789. A.D. 

He wrote several Vedanta works, 
, such as a Ramayan, the play Chandra 
PrabOdh, Hloohh Panth, BhSwar Sawar, 
etc. 



106 



THE MODBBN LITEBIBT HI8T0BT OF HIKDOSTXN. 



[§487. 



487. t^ TTOj OSbl Das. Fl. 
cir. 1790 A.D. 

A quietistic poet, a pupil of Jag 
Man Daa (No. 323). 

488. «)l<3tH K^ ^fPr, the poet 
Balam Das. Fl. 1793. 

He wrote in. the above year a trea- 
tise on geomancy (th^) entitled 
Ramal Bhahha. It is an authority on 
the subject. 

489. ^ ^rra> Sri Lai, the 
Guj'rati, of B&ilr, in RSj'putana. B. 
1793 A.D. 

. The author of a Bhakha Chandroday 
and other works. 

490. "SrPT Tra ^if^, the poet 
Pran Nath, a Brahman of Baia'uiara. 
Fl. 1793 A.D. 

He wrote in the above year an 
itihSsa entitled Chahabyuh. 

491. ^iT^ ^>^* the poet Kanh 
the elder. B. 1795. A.D. 

The author of a work on lovers, 
(See note to ISo. 87.) 

492. ■g«I %^, Gun DSb, of 
Bundel'khand. B. 1795 A.D. 

Said to have written some good 
poetry. 

493. ^ftirra ^T^ mfir, the 

poet Gepal Lai. B. 1795 AtD. 

Said to have written some good 
quietistic (3rrf^ T9) poems. 



494. ^? ^if^,"the poet Umld. 
B. 1796 A.J). 

His Nahh'sikh (see note to No. 87) 
is much admired. He appears to 
have lived in some village in the Ddab 
at near Shah-Jahan-pur. 

495. ^nft ^if^, the poet Udhe- 
B. 1796 A.I^ 

Srigg., P Eag. Of. No. 79. 

496. *«ri-SS, Kabindr; a Brah- 
man of Nar'war, in Bundei'kha^d, B. 
1797 A.I>. 

He was son of Sakhl Sukh 
(No. 453), and was author of a work 
entitled the Ras-dip. 

497. V^TTTir^^^^, Ichchhi 
Ram AbasthI, of Pachama, district 
BanbaifM. Fl. 1798A.D. 

A very pious poet, who vrrote 
in the above year a treatise on -the 
Vedanta philosophy named the Brahm 
Bilaa. 

498. «7^T ^, the poet 
Sadhar. B. 1798 A.D. 

499. ^^ ^^, the poet 
Sukabi. B. 1798. 

An erotic poet. 

500. Wt^ ^ff^, the poet 
Bddh. B. 1798 A.D. Cf. No. 449. 

501. iiClinf, NarBttam, of fii/n- 
dSl'khaW- B. jtiTSP A.D. 



HINDtJSTlN UNDEB THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 107 



CHAPTER X. 

HINDtJSTlJSr UNDER THE COMPANY. [1800—1857.] 



The years commencing with, the downfall of the Maratha power 
and ending with the Mutiny form another convenient period in 
dealing with the literary history of Hindustan. It was the period 
of renascence, of the practical introduction of the printing-press into 
Northern India, and of the foundation of the modern school which 
now shows such commendable activity. It was, moreover, the period 
' of the birth of tliat wonderful hybrid language known to Europeans 
as Hindi, and invented by them. In 1803, under Gilchrist's tuition, 
LallQ Jl Lai wrote the Prem Sagar in the mixed Urdu language of 
Akbar's camp-followers and of the market where men of all nations 
congregated, with this peculiarity, that he used only nouns and 
particles of Indian, instead of those of Arabic or Persian, origin. Thd 
result was practically a newly-invented speech ; for though the 
grammar was the same as that of the prototype, the vocabidary was 
almost entirely changed. This new language, called by Europeans 
Hin^, has been adopted all over Hindustan as the lingua franca 
of Hindiis, for a want existed which it fulfilled. It has become 
the recognised medium of literary prose throughout Northern 
India, but as it was nowhere a vernacular it has never been success- 
fully used for poetry. The greatest geniuses have tried, and it 
has been found wanting at their hands. Northern India therefore at 
the present day presents the following unique state of literature, — ^its 
poetry everywhere written in local vernacular dialects, especially 
in Braj, in Bais'warl, and in Bihari, and its prose in one imifprm 
artificial dialect, the mother tongue of no native-born Indian, forced 
into acceptance by the prestige of its inventors, by the fact that the 
first books written in it were of a highly popular character, and 
because it found a sphere in which it was eminently useful. 

The star of literature during the haU-century under notice shone 
hiighteBt m Bunderkhand and Baghel'khand, otBandras, aniin. Audh, 
but it shone with marked differences in the quality of its Hght. In 
BundSl'hhand and Baghel'hhand the poets were the legitimate contin- 
uators of the traditions of the eighteenth century. Pannci, the capital 



1Q8 THE MODEEN tlTEEAET HISTOET OF HINDffSTllf. 

of the heroic Chhattf Sal, Ghar'khari made famous under milder 
auspices by Bihram Sah'i, and Rlwa, illustrious for its art-patrons 
from the days of Neja Ram to those of Biswanath Siggfi, each formed 
a centre from which issued well-known standard works on the art 
of poetry. The writers, of whom perhaps Padmakar was the most 
famous, were those . on whom the mantles of Kesab Das and 
Chintamani Tripatht fell. They were the last survivors of the learned 
writing for the learned. Bundel'khand remained during the whole 
haU-century a country of semi-independent chiefs warring amongst 
themselves, with whom the printing-press found little favour. 

Far different was the case of Banaras- The end of the eighteenth^ 

century saw that city a British possession; and with the pax Britanmoa_ 

came the introduction of printed books. ■ This had its natural efEect. 

The limitless multiplication of -copies by the airt of printing gave a 

new audience to the learned,^-an audience that had hitherto been 

satisfied with the rough Doric of the folk-epic, and which in the 

earlier days of India's chivalry had been successfully addressed by ' 

Raj'put bards. What an opportunity for making or marring a nation's 

character ! And here again the pure and noble figure of Tul'sl Das 

stands forward as the saviour of his fellow-countrymen. Hindustan, 

happily in this differing from Baggal,^ had that figure to go back to 

as an example. His popularity gave its tone to the demand, and 

with characteristic acuteness the Banaras Pandits fostered the supply. 

In 1829 was completed and printed for the Maharaj of Banaras 

Gokul Ndth's great translation of the companion epic to the Rdma- 

yana, the Mahabharata. This alone was sufficient to make our present 

period noteworthy, but it is only one early instance of the many - 

valuable works issuing from the Holy City. Other authors, of a 

younger generation, of whom one of the greatest is happily stiU alive, 

endowed with a wider and more catholic mental vision, no longer 

bounded by the horizon of Pauranik cosmology, came to the front, and 

the benefit done to the intellect of Hindustan by such men as Raja 

Siua Prasad and Harishohandr' cannot easily be calculated. 

The Ta'aluqdars of Audh also worthily upheld their 'reputations 
as encouragers of poetry. Although eclipsed by Banaras in this respect 
(for is not the Sundari Tilak deservedly the most popular work of its 

1 It is needless to say that I am not referring to the great reyival of Baggali 
literature inaugurated by Ishwar Chandra {Bidydsagar) in later years, but to 
the insipid indecencies of Bharat Chandra and his imitators, which up to then 
were so popular. 



§ 503.] HINDtlSTiN VSB^S THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 109 

'kin(^ in existence?), Andh may boast of having produced an excellent 
' anthology in the Bidwan-Mod-Tamgginl. These anthologies, of which 
Kalidds'^Hajara, written at the end of the seventeenth century, is 
the earliest important example, appeared in considerable numbers 
during the first half of the nineteenth century* and did much to 
extend the knowledge of sound vernacular literature of the preceding 
generations. As already, said, one of the most popular, as it was one 
of the best, was the Sundarl Tilak ; but the most important of all, 
both in bulk and in contents, was the Rdg-SagarOdbhab Rdg-KalpcL- 
drum, pubhshed in 1843. 

For convenience of classification I divide this chapter into four 
parts, referring to Bundel'khand and Bagherkhand, to Banaras, to 
Audh, and to other places respectively. As a rule, only those poets 
who were bom or who flourished between 1800 and 1857 are given, 
but in a few instances, in order to complete groups, poets who belonged 
to an earlier period have been kept back for inclusion in this period, or 
history has been anticipated by including a few of a later date. 



Part I.— Bundel'khand and Baghel'khand. 

502. 'n'?^ *T?j Mohan Bfiatt, of Bandd. Fl. cir. 1800 A.D. 
He is a well-known poet. He attended first the court of the 

Bundela Maharaj HindQpati, of Par'nd (Pannd), and subsequently 
those of Par'tdp Siggh Sawd'i (1778—1803) and Jagat Siggh Sawdi 
of Jaipur (1803—1818) (Tod's Bsjdsthan, ii, 375; Calc. ed., ii, 414). 
His son was the celebrated Padmdkar (No. 506), whose grandson was 
Gadd Dhar (No. 512). He also praises one Sujdn Siggh ; cf, Nos. 
367, 368. Eegarding Hindupati, see No. 503. 

503. ^"^ "BTTT? Rap Sdhi, a Kayasth of" Bdg'mahal, near 
Par'nd {Pannd), in Bundel'khand. Fl. oir. 1800 A.D. 

He attended the court of the Bundela Maharaj Hindupati (cf. 
No. 502) of Par'nd {Pannd). He was author of a work entitled 
RQp Bilds (written, 1756 A.D.), in which he states that Chhattr' 
Sal's (No. 197) son was Hir'dai Siggh or Hir'des (cf. No. 346), 
whose son was Sabhd Siggh (cf. Nos. 155 an^ 346), whose son was 
Hindupati (cf. No. 502). 



110 THB MODEBN LITEEABt HI8T0EY OF HINDtJsTlN. [§ 504. 

504. «ni,H *nWIi Karan, the Brahman of Bundsl'khand. 
Fl. cir. 1800 A.D. 

He attended the court of the Bundela MaharaJ HindOpat'l (cf. 
No, ,502) of Pdr'na {Panna), and composed two important works— 
the Ras Kallol and the Sahitya Has. 



505. TT %^ ^f^') the poet Har Dnb. Fl. 1800 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raghu Natfi Raw, of Nag'pur (1816— 
1818). 

506. "T^'RPC *rf , Padm&har Bhatt, of Bdnda. Fl. 1815 A.IX 
Eag., Sun., Srigg. He was son of Mohan Bhatt, of Banda 

(No. 502) . Padmakar at first attended the court of Raghu Ndth Rduf, 
of Nag'pur, commonly known as the Appa Sahib (reigned 1816 — 
1818), where he receired great rewards for his poetry. Subsequently 
he went to Jaipur, where he compiled, in the name of Jagat Siggh 
Sawal (1803 — 1818), a work entitled Jagad Bindd (Rag.). Being 
richly rewarded for this, he devoted the rest of his life to the worship 
of the Ganges, and wrote a work entitled Gaggd LaharT. Amongst 
his grandsons may be mentioned Gadd Dhar Bhatt (No. 512). 

507. *qi<?l ^T^^ the poet and bard ^H/a/, of ^afAtfro. Fl. 
1815 A.D. 

Sun. He was skilled in composition (^Tf%Hl). His, principal works 
were (1) Sahitya DQhhan, (2) Sdhitya Dar'pan, (3) Bhahti Bhdw, 
(4) Srirjgdr Dohd, (5) Srirjgdr Kdbitta. He also wrote minor works, 
such as a Nalih'silih (see note to No. 87), Gqpl PaGhJsI, Jamund 
Laharl (written 1822 A.D.), etc, He was a rival of Deb Datt' (No, 
508) and of Padmdiiar (No. 506). 

508. '^^ ^'^•j Oe6 Datt' the Brahman, of Sdrhi, district 
Kdnh'pur. Fl. 1815 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja K human Siggh, the Bundela of 
Char'khdrl. He was a contemporary and rival of Padmdhar (No. 506) 



§ 513.] HlMDtfSTlN UNDBE THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] HI 

and of Gwdl (No; 507). He is probalbly the same as the Kabi Datt' 
mentioned in Dig. 

509. *rT«I ^W ^rPr-) the poet and bard Bhan Das, of Char'- 
kharh in Bundel'khand. Fl. 1815 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja. Khumdn Siggh, of Char'kharl, and 
wrote a prosody entitled /?flp Silas. 

510. tr«r«*f^ «Rf^7 the poet PaJ'nSs, of BundSl'khand. 
B. 1816 A.D. 

Srirg. He resided in Par'na (Panna), and wrote a good work on 
vernacular composition (WRTT «lR«j), entitled Madhu Priyd. His 
poems are famous for their conceits and difficulties. The best specimen 
of his work is his Nakh'sikh (see^note to No. 87). He was also a good 
Persian scholar. 

511. ^^m^, Bal'bhadr' the Kayasth, of Par'nci {Pannd), in 
BundSl'khand. B. ISU. 

He attended the court of Raja Nar'pati Sirjgh, the Bundela of 
Par'na {Panna). 

Possibly the author of the Bal'bhadra Charitra, quoted by Garpin 
de Taasy, i, 104, from Ward, ii, 480. 

512. 7T^ T^^ Hf , Gada Dhar Bhatt, of Bandd. B. 1855. 
Rag. His paternal great-grandfather was the weU-kdown Mdhan 

Bhatt (No. 502), whose son was PadmSkar (No, 506), who had two 
sons, named Mih'i Ldl (? No. 623) and Ambd Par'sdd. The former's 
sons were Bansi Dhar, Gada Dhar, Ghandr' Dhar, and Lachhmi Dhar. 
The last had a son nained Bidijd Dhar. These were all poets, but 
Gada Dhar was the best and attended the court -of Raja Bhauiqnl 
Siggh Datiyd, son of Bijai Siggh Datiyd. His best known work is 
the Alatjkdr Chandroday. 

513. TT^V^T"^, the bard Pah'Idd, of Char'khdrl, in Bundsl'- 
khand. Fl. 1810. 

He attended the court of Raja Jagat Siggh, oi Ghar'khdrL 



112 THE MODEBN WIEBAEY HISTOET 01' HINDtfSTilT. [§ 514. 

514. T^^RT ^TT^i Raja Bikram Sah'i almBiJai Bahadur, 
the Bundaa, of Char'hharl. in BundSl'khand. Bom 1785 ; D. 1828 
A.D. 

Eag. The author of two much-admired works — (1) Bikram Birada- 
bali, (2) Bikram Sat Sal. Sib Siggh gives another Eajai Bij'ai Bahadurj 
a Buudela of Tefi'rT, about whom he mentions no particidars, giving 
the date as B. 1823, which is the same as that which he wrongly gives 
for BijM. of Char'khari. Teh'ri and Char'khari are both in Bundel'- 
khand. 

515. WflT^ Sfif^, the poet and bard Baital. Fl, 1820 
A.D. 

He attended the court of Bikram Saiii (No. 514), and wrote moral 
and occasional pieces, A selection from his poems wiU be found in the 
BhkahS. Sar of Sahib Prasad Siggh. ' According to Garcin de Tassy, 
i, 118, his fuU name was Santokh Ray Betal, and he wrote in Urdu. 
He appears to have been a contemporary and disciple of Muhammad 
Qiyam. 

516. ^^ ^T^ the poet BIr BdJ'pSyl alias DM DSda, of 
n^andila. FL 1820. 

The author of a work entitled PrSm Dipika, written in answer to 
a challenge given by his brother Bikram Sdhi (No. 514). 

517. TTT '^TSf") the poet and bard Man, of Char'khari, in 
BundSl-khand. ' Fl, 1820 A.D. 

He attended the court of Bikram Sdhi (No. 514). He is possibly" 
the same as a Man Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh as a quietistic 
poet. I 

518. "^^ ^ ^f^, the poet Bal Dsb, of Char'khari, in 
Bundsl'khand. Fl. 1820. 

He attended the court of Bikram Sdhi (No. 514). 0£ No. 543. 

519. T^^TCT ^T^9 the bard Bihdrl Ldl alias BhGj Kabi, of 
Char'khari, in, Bunmi'khanci. Fl. 1840 A,D. 



§525.] HIHDffSTHf UNDBB THB COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 113 

He attended the court of Raja Ratan Siggh alias Rat'nBs (of. 
No. 149 Add. and No. 344 Add.), the Bundela of Char'kharT. His 
two principal works, the Bhoj BfiRkfian and the Ras Bilas, are much 
admired. His love for a courtezan named Shar'fO led him to compose 
a niunber of very popular verses in her honour. 

520. '%i6(*ltJ') AwadhBs, the Brahman of Ohaf'khdrT, in 
BundSl'khmd. Fl. 1840 A.D. 

He was an old poet at the court of Ratan Sirjgh, of Char'kharl, 
the Bundela. His poems are said to possess taste, but Sib Singh 
states that he has never been able to obtain copies of any complete 
work of his. Cf . No, 542. 



521. TTof TTTTT ^M^ the poet and bard Raw Rana, of 
Char'kharT, in Bundel'khand. Fl. 1840 A.D. 

He was descended from ancient Bundela poets, and attended the 
court of Raja Ratan Sirjgh, where he was shown great honour. 

522. 'ftin^ '^5^^'T, the bard GOpai, oi Char'kharT, in 
Bundel'khand. Fl. 1840 A,D. 

He attended the court of Raja Ratan Siggh, of Char'kharT. 

523. f^TT^ ^^ f^TTT^, BiharT Lai TrlpclthT, of 
Jik'mapur, district Kanh'pur. Fl. 1840 A.D. 

He is the most famous of the descendants of Mati Ram TripdthT 
(No. 146). He was a greater poet than Ram Din (No. 524) or 
Srto/ (No. 525). 

524. TT^ ^f f^lTT^, Ram DTn Tripathl, of Jik'ma- 
pur, district Kanh'pur. Fl. 1840 A.D. 

He was a descendant of Mati Ram (No. 146), and attended the 
court of Maharaj Ratan Siggh, of Char'kharT. 

525. ^tfT^ f^Ml^T, STtal TripathT, of Jik'm&pur, district 
Kanh'pur. Fl. 1840 A.D, 



114 THE MODEEN LITEBAET HISTOEY 0I"HINDC8Ti», [§ 526, 

He was a descendant of Mati Ram (see No. 146) and father of 
tliepoet LSI (No* ? 561, 919), He attended the courts at Ghar'kharl 
and other places in Bundel'khand- 

526. •fora' f^ETfS Naufal Siggh the Kayasth, of JhansT. 
B. 18^1. 

Sring. He was a servant of the Eaja of Santhar. He had a 
great reputation, and was the author of (1) Nam Ramciyan and (2) 
Hari NamSbalT. 

527. '^^'^ T^TX-) Askand Gir'i, of Bands. B. (? PL) 1859 
A.D. 

This poet belonged to the family of Himmot'i BahSdur (No. 378), 
and was an excellent love-poet. His best work is the Askand-Binod, 
dealing with that subject. 

528. ^T**t^ ^f^l the poet Sam'nes, a Kayasth of Banhd 
(Rlwa), in BaghSl'khand. Fl. 1810. 

He attended the court of Mahara] Jai Siggh (succeeded 1809, 
abdicated 1813), father of Maharaj Biswanath Siggh, of Bandho. He 
was author of a work entitled Kabya Bhdkhan. 

529. f^^ •t'l^ '^"W^ Maharaj Biswanath Siggh, of B&ndhQ 
{Rlwa), in Baghei'khand. Eeigned 1813—1834 A.D. 

^ag. The descendant of a line of kings famous for its patronage 
of poets. His ancestor IVsja Ram Siggh, who was a contemporary of 
Ak'bar, gave the poet Hari Nath (No. 114) a hundred thousand rupeep 
for a single d6h&. This king not only sustained the traditional 
liberality of his family, but was also the author of a Sanskrit work 
entitled Saruasaggrahu. He also wrote vernacular commentaries on 
the BJjak of Kablr (see Nos. 13, 14), and on the Binay Pattrika of 
Tul'sl Das (No. 128). Another good vernacular work of his is 
entitled Ram Chandr' kJ SawSrJ. 

530. ^^^^ •RTI TTS", AjabSS, the modern bard of that 
name. Fl. cir. 1830 A.D. 



539.] 



HINDCSTIN 0NDBE THB CQMPANT. [1800—1857.] 



1X5 



Sun. He attended the court of Maharaj BiswaiiStfi Si'sigh 
(No. 529), of Bandh5 (Riwa) (1813— 1834)^aee AJabes (No. 24). 
I question the existence of this earlier poet. Not impossibly, the 
poem referred to him in No. 24 is by the poet now under consideration. 

531. ?nm^ ^f^i the poet Gopdl, a Kayasth of BandfiO 
(mwa), in Baghel'khmd. Fl. cir. 1830 A.D. 

He was minister of Maharaj Biswanath Siggh (No. 529) of BandhO 
{RJiva) (1813—1834). His principal work is the Gopal Paohlsl. 

532. T^ TTW ^W^ Maharaj Raghu Raj Sirjgh, the Baghel 
of Bandhd (RluiS), in BaghBl'khand. B. 1824, succeeded 1834, aUve 
in 1883. 

Sun. The author of a much-admired translation of the Bfiagauata 
Parana, entitled ^nanddmbudhi ; also of a history oj HanumSn 
entitled Sundar Satak (written 1847 A.D.), and other works. 



ADDENDA TO QHAPTER X, PAET I. 



533. xiT'T qdV, the poet Pamm, 
of lUahdba, in Bundel'khar/d. B. 1814 
A.D. 

The author of a Nakh'sikh (see 
note to No. 87). 

534. TfK^ ^'RT ^ffk, the poet 
Rasik LSI, of Banda. B. 1823. 

4.n erotic poet. 

535. ■^'T '^%^ wf^, the poet 
eun Sindhi of BundSl'kha^cf. B- 1825 
A.D. 

A clever erotic poet. 

536. WS^ ^ff^, the poet 
Khavdan, of Bundel'hhffifcl, B. 182T 
A.D. 

He has written an excellent trea- 
tise on loTers, Sib Siggh states that 
copies of the work exist in JhSn^h and 
gives the names of the possessors. 



537. fT^ tftr^ ^ef^, the poet 
Madan Mdhan, of Char'khar}, in Bundil'- 
khaifd, B. 1833 A.!). 

Eag. A minister of the Eaja pf 
Chafkhari, He was an erotic pQet. 

538. xm f*!U«i ^T^j Ra.m 
Kishun Chaube, of Kalinjaij district 
Banda. B.1839. 

The author of a quietistic work 
entitled Bifiay PacMsl He is prob- 
ably the same as a Ram Kishun Kabi 
mentioned by Sib Siggh without 
particulars. 

539. f ft ^re ^, the poet 
and bard Hari Oas, of Bandi. B. 183i 
A.D. 

He was father of the poet N^ne 
(No. 646), He wrgt? an erotic poem 
entitled Radha Bhakhan. 

H 2 



116 



THE UODEBN LITSBIBT HI9T0BT OF HINSVlTlN. 



[§ 540. 



540. T^ ^'T ^rf^^ the poet 
Qagg Ram, of Bundsl'khantf. B. 1837. 

A commonplace poet. 

541. ^^'HTM*^ ^^ 3TnfNfj 
Par'manand Lalli Puranlh, of AJaCigarh, 
in BundSl'kha^d. B. JS3i?' A.D. 

The author of a Nahh'sikh (see note 
to No. 87). 

542. '^^5^, AwadhSs, the 
Brahman, of BAOpa, in BundSl'khaifcl. 
B. JS38 A.D. 

This poet is said to have been 
skilled in composing many beautiful 
poems, but Sib Siggh states that he 
has never been able to obtain copies 
of any complete wort of his. Cf. 
No. 520. 

543. ^^ %^ ^ff^^ the poet 
Bal DSb, of Char'hharl, in Bundil'khatfdI. 
B.1839A.T>. 

Probably the same as No. 518. 

544. hI^T fllT ^, the poet 
Bhdla Sir/gh, of Par'n& (Panna), in 
Bundel'khand. 3.1839. 

545. "^^ ^>f^> the poet and 
haxANBnS of Banrfa, in BundSI'khaifd' 
B. 1844 A.D. 

He was son of the poet Hari DUs 
(No. 539). He was learned in ver- 
nacular composition (>rrwT ^Tl%ai). 

546. "^ ^^ ^ff^i the poet 
Hari Das, a Kayasth of Parana (Panna), 
in BundSl'kharid. B. 1844 A.D. 

The author of a work on vernacular 
composition ( flUaT ^arfV^l ) entitled 
ffas Kaumudl. He also vrrote twelve 
other similar works. 

547. f^^t^ ^fw, the poet 
and bard Hir'dBs, of Jhansi, in Bundel'- 
kharfd- B. 1844 AJ). 

Srigg. The author of a work 
entitled Sriggar Nab Pas. 

548. 'fi^ ^^, NU Sakhl, of 
JSit'pur in Bundel'kharid. B. 1843, 



549. ^^ ift'Tra', the bard 
Bans Gdpal, of JalSUn, in Bundel'khaifgl, 
B. i8=^ A.D. 

No particulars. He is possibly the 
same as a Bans GdpSi mentioned by 
Sib Siijgh without date as a bard. 

550. T^qf ^ff%, the poet 
Naisuh, of Bundel'khand- B. 184T A.D. 

An erotic poet. 

551. Ml^sf^ WT^, the bard 
Ambar of ChahjU'pur, in Bundei'khaifif. 
B. iS55 A.D. 

552. ^5T srr^, the poet Wn 
H^th, of BundBl'khand. B. iS5^ A.D. 

553. H^*i ^f%, the poet and 
bard Paftcham, the younger, of BundSl'- 
khatfd. B. 1834 A.D. 

He attended the court of Eaja 
Guman Siogh, of Ajaigarh. 

554. KT^ ^rra, Radhs Lai, a 
Kayasth of Raj'garh, in BundBl'kha^tf. 
B. iS54 A.D. 

555. fi« ^rra^, the poet 
and bard Kuhj Lai, of Maa Ranlpura, 
district Jhansi, in BundSl' khaifd. B. 
18S3 A.D. 

Some detached verses by him are 
known. 

556. «HV^, the bard Jan'kSs, 
of Mas Ranlpura, district Jhansi, in 
Bundel'khaif^. B. 1835 A.D. 

He was a member of the suite of 
the Kaja of Chhattr'pur. His poems 
are said to be sweet. 

557. ^TT^ ^ifk, the younger 
poet Kanh alias Kanhai Lai, Kayasth 
of Raj'nagar, in BundBl'khai}^. B. 1837 
A.D. 

He has written some admired 
poems. His Nakh'sikh (see note, 
No. 87) is said to be worth looking at. 

558. sj^lffX '^rf^, the poet 
and bard Jaivahir, of Srinagar, in 
Bundil-khasf<jl. B. 1837 A.D. 



§563.] HISTDtfiTIW UNDBE THB OOMPINT. [1800—1867.] 117 

Part II.— Banaras. 

559. T^ •TTW ^f^t the poet and bard Raghu NSth, of 
Banaras. FL 1745 A.D. 

Sriijg. He was a fellow pupil of Muhund Lai (No. 560), and father 
of GOkul Nath (No. 564), the translator of the Mahabharata. He 
was court poet to Maharaj Bariband Sitjgh,^ of Banaras, and livfed at 
Chaurdgaw, which is within the PafichakrOsh or five-kos circle round 
Banaras. He is counted as one of the masters of vernacular com- 
position. Hewrote.(l) the Rasik MQhan, (2) Jag Mohan, (3) Kabija 
Kalddhar (written 1745 A.D.), (4) Ishh Mahotsab, and a commentary 
on the Sat Sal of BihdrT Ldl (No. 196). These are all especially 
admired. 

560. ^^•^ "^fT^ ^1^7 the poet Muhund Lai, of Banaras. 
B. (? Fl.) 17U6 A.D. 

Sat. He was a fellow pupil of the poet Raghu Nath (No. 559). 
Possibly the same as Lai Muhund (No, 391). 

561. ^n^ ^nT? the poet and bard Ldl, of Bandras. Fl. cir. 
1775 A.D, 

Sun, He attended the court of Raja GhSt Siggh (1770—1781), of 
Banaras. He wrote a treatise on lovers (see note to No. 87) entitled 
Xnand Ras, and a commentary on the Sat Sal of Bihdrl Ldl (No, 196) 
entitled Ldl Chandrihd. Cf., however, No. 629. 

562. T fr ^ni'^T^, Hari Par'sdd, of Bandras. Fl. cir. 
1775 A.D. 

He translated the Sat Sal of Bihdrl (No. 196) into elegant Sanskrit 
verse at the instance of Raja ChSt Slggh (1770—1781), of Banaras, 

563. ^^•^■R f%f^? Prince Bal'bdn Sirjgh, of Bandras. Fl. 
cir. 1800 A.D, 

He was son of Raja Ohet Siggh (D. 1810). 'Ite Sib Siggh Saroj 
names him as an author, but does not mention what he wrote. 

• So Sib Siggh, but I can find no trace of any Eaja of Banaras of this name. 
Possibly Bal'want SIggh (reigned 1740—1770) is meant. 

h3 



118 THE MODEBN LITEBAET HISTOBT OE HINDUSTAN. [§ 664, 

564. 'ftll^ 'TT^ ^«^«l«ri the bard GOhul Nath, of 
Banana. Fl. cir. 1820. 

Rag., Sun. He was son of the poet Raghu Nath (No. 559),. of 
Banaras. His home was in the village of Ghauragaw, which isin the 
Panchahrosh or five-kos circle round Banaras. His Chet-Ghandrika 
is a work of great authority amongst poets. He has described in it the 
family history of Raja Ghet Si'sgh (Fl. 17T6, D. 1810) of Banaras, who 
was his patron. Another excellent work of his is the Gobind Suhhad 
Bihar. The Mahabharata (Rag.) was translated into the vernacular 
at the instance of Raja Udit Narayan (1795—1835), of Banaras, and 
"in this work Gokul Ndth, together with his son Gopi Ndth (No. 565), 
and the latter's pupil, Mani Deb (No. 566), had a principal share. The 
fuU name of the translation is the Mahabhdrat Dar'pan, and of its 
supplement the Haribans Dar'pan, published in Calcutta in 1829 
A.D. Garcin de Tassy (i, 158) says : — " There are other Hindustani 
translations of the Mahabharata ; those with which I am acquainted 
are — 

(1) Kitab-i-Mahabharata, or book of the Mahabharata, of which 
a portion is contained in the Farzada CieK collection. 

(S) The copy of which Sir E. Ouseley has also only a portion. 

(3) There is also among the manuscripts of Sir W. Ouseley a 
volume which cohtains a pbttion of the Mahabharata in Sanskrit and 
Hindustani. 

(4) Ainong the numbers of the Hindustani manuscripts of the 
Prince of Borgia described by Paulin de Saint Barth^lemy there is a 
portion of the Mahabharata entitled Bdlak Purdn, or the Legend of 
the Child (Krishna). The original manuscript is accompanied by an 
Italian translation by P. Marcus a Tomba. 

Besides the Persian translation of the Mahabharata attributed to 
^637 fa?/, Jiiinister of Ak'bar, there is another more recent one by 
Najib Khan ban 'Abdti'l Latif, made at the command of, and in the 
palace of, Nawab Mahalddr Khan Nazd in the year 1782-83 A.D. 
Hh.e translator says that it was made accordbig to the verbal inter- 
pretation of the Sanskrit text given to htm in Hindustani by many 
Brahmans. 

Annoag the Persian manuscripts of the Asiatic Society of Bengal 
is found a third Persian translation by the Hindu BapdsJ' 

To these may be added (1) the Bijai Muktdball of the poet 
Chhattr' (No. 75), which is a condensed abstract of the Mahabharata ; 



§669.] HlNDtrSTlN UNDEE THB COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 119 

(2) Sabal Siggh, the Chaahan (No, 210), who translated 24,000 verses 
of the same work; and (3) Ghimfljlb (No. 607), who is said to have 
done the same to the whole. 

565. ^rWy ^T^ ^■'^''tWr, the bard GopI Nath, of 
Banaras. Fl. cir. 1820 A.p. 

At the instance of Eaja Udit Nardyan, of Banaras, the whpJe Mdha- 
bharata was translated into the vernacular. GopJ Nath (who was son 
of Gokul Nath) (No. 564), and his pupil Mani DSb (No. 566), took an 
important part in this work. The greater part of GopJ Nath's hie 
was spent in this work. The rest of his time was spent in composing 
short pieces of various kinds. He is, however, most famous for the 
trajofilation. 

566. f{f^ "^^i, the bard Mani Osb, of Banaras. Fl. cir. 
1820 A.D. 

Sun. He was a pupil of GopI Nath (No. 565), and with him and 
Gohul Nath (No. 564) took a prominent part in the famous translation 
' of the ll/lahabhdrata. 

567. XTTTT ^^9 the poet Parag, of Banaras. Fl. cir. 1820 
A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja Udit Nardyan Siggh (1795—1835), 
of Banaras. He translated the Amara K6(^a (? Rag. Cf. Nos. 170, 
589, 761) into the vernacular. 

568. TTTI ^-^ i<| ^ Ram Sahdy, a Kayasth of Banaras. Fl. 
cir. 1820, 

Rag. He attended the court of Raja Udit Nardyan Siggh (1795 — 
1835), of Banaras. He wrote a treatise on prosody entitled Britta- 
taraggini Sat Sal. 

569. "^W ^rT^ the poet DSb, of Bandras, alias Kdshth 
Jihwd Swdml. Fl. cir. 1850 A.D. 

Sun,, Srigg. He studied Sanskrit in Banaras, On one occasion he 
quarrelled with his preceptor, and afterwards, to show his penitence, 

h4 



120 THB MODBEN LITBEAET HISTOET OF HINDtJSTlN. [§ 570. 

cut out his tongue, inserted^ a false wooden one instead, and 
carried on communications with others by means of a board, on which 
he wrote. He was an instructor of Maharaj Tswarl Nardyan St'ijgh 
(succeeded 1835, alive in 1883), of Banaras, who settled him in Rdm'- 
nagar, where he composed the Binayamrit (a collection of hymns), 
the Ramdyan Pariohdryd (see Hamhohandr', Prasiddh Mahdtmdb 
kd JJban Gharitr', ii, 30), and other works. His hymns are still sung 
at the Banaras court. 

570. ZTffT "T?:^^^ f^I^, ThdkurPar'sddTripdW, 
of Kishun'dds'pur/^tjiot Rdy Barell. B. 1825; Fl. 1863 A.D. 

He" was learned in Sanskrit composition, and in 1863 A.D. com- 
pleted a work of great labour, entitled the Ras Ghandroday, a collec- 
tion of poems by 242 poets, which he had collected mainly by house-to- 
house visitation in Bundel'khai}d. He afterwards went to Bandras, 
where he became a friend of the poets Ganes (No. 573) and Sar'ddr 
(No. 571), and received much honour from the nobles of Audh. 
He died in 1867, leaving a large and valuable library, which was sold 
by his sons. 

571. '^T'^TT! ^^1 the poet and bard Sar'ddr, of Bandras. 
Alive in 1883. 

Sun., Srigg. He attended the court of Maharaj Tswarl Ndrdyan 
Siggh, of Banaras, and was son of the poet Hari Jan (No. 576). He 
has a great name. He was a friend of Thdkur Par'sdd Tripdthh 
(No. 570), and a teacher of Ndrdyan Rdy (No. 572). He is author of 
(1) Sdhitya Sarasi, (2) Hanumat Bhukhan, (3) Tul'si Bhakhan, (4) 
Mdnas Bhakhan, (5) a commentary to the Kabi-priyd (No. 134), (6) a 
commentary to the Rasik-prfyd (No. 134), (7) a commentary to the 
Sat Sal of Bihdrl (No. 196), (8) Sn'sgdr Saggrah, and (9) a com- 
mentary on 380 emblematic couplets by SQr Dds (No. 37). No. 8 
(printed by Nawal Kishor, at Lakh'naO), is a deservedly popular work 
on rhetoric, and deals with all the branches of the art of poetical 
composition. It was written in 1848 A.D., and is quoted in this 
work as ' Sring.' It contains -quotations from the following poets :— 



Chatur'bhuJ (No. 40). 
Ndrdyan Dds (No. 51), 
Parasii Ram (No. 55). 



Ras Khan (No. 67). 
KehYi (No. 70). 
Par'bat (No. 74). 



S 571. J 



HINDtJSTiN UNDBE THH COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 



121 



/fr/s/i'n,/f6o/j(PNo8. 77;438). 
Sib {? No. 8-8). 
Am'rss (No. 90), 
Ah'bar (No. 104). 
Brahm (No. 106). 
Rahim (No. 108). . 
Khan'khana (No. 108). 
Gaijg (No. 119). 
Nidhi (No. 131). 
Kssab Das (No. 134). 
Balibhadr' (No. 135). 
Par'blnRal (No. 137). 
Sundar (No. 142). 
Chintamani (No. 143). 
Bhahhan (No. 145). 
Mati Ram (No. r46). 
/Vr/p Sambhu (No. 147). 
yVr/ /TanfA (No. 148). 
Par'tap (No. 149). 
SrJpati (No. 150). 
S/6 yi/af/j (No, 152). 
Mandan (No. 154). . 
Ratan (No. 155). 
Wtfr'/r (No. 156). 
SnOAar (No. 157). 
Kalidas (No. 159). 
Kabiraj (No. 160). 
Senspati (No. 165). 
T/jaAH/- (No. 173). 
kasJ Ram (No. 175). 
/sH/ar (No. 177). 
'Slam (No. 181). 
Par'sad (No. 183). 
yi//H/a/ (?.Nos. 198, 448). 
Hari Kss (No. 203). 
Sri Gobind {No. 211). 
H/lotiMm (No. 216). 
Par'mSs (? Nos. 222, 616). 
Abhimanya (No. 229). 
(?Aasr ffam (No. 230). 



Sskh (No. 236). 

Ballabh (No. 239), 

fig/77 (? Nos, 247, 484), 

Hari Jan (No, 249), 

Ram JQ (P No, 252). 

Bha Dhar (? Nos. 256, 336). 

Siromani (No. 262). 

Bal Deb (? Nos. 263, 359). 

Tolih (No. 265). 

Muliund (No. 266). 

Rap Narayan (No. 268). 

Bhar'mt (No. 273). 

/Tw/'/oaf/ (No. 282). 

Sarati (No. 326). 

ATr/po Ram {? Nos. 328, 797). 

Bhag'want (No, 333), 

(/(/ay /VafA (No. 334). 

Kabmdr' (No. 334). 

Giri Dhar Das (No. 345). 

Ghan Snand (No. 347). 

/)a/aA (No. 358). 

Das (? No. 369). 

Kishor (No. 385). 

raz-o (No. 419). 

Palihi (No. 442). ' 

Bo(//;a (No. 449). 

Krish'n Lai (No. 456). 

Mak'rand (No. 457). 

OA?r (No. 461). 

BhaFijart (No. 468). 

Santan (No. 472). 

S//;^// (? No. 474). 

Datt' (No. 475). 

Mam' Ram (No, 477). 

Sasgam (No. 480). 

i/rfAo (No. 495), 

Padmakar (No, 506). 

Pa/nes (No. 510). 

Nawal (No. 526). 

///rWgs (No, 547), 



122 



THE MODEBN LITEEAET HISTOET OP HINdOsTIN. 



[§ 572. 



Raghu Ndth (No. 559). 
Deb (No. 569). 
Sar'dar (No. 571). 
Sib Datt' (No. 588). 
Gin DhdrT (No. 625). 
Chain Ray (No. 627). 
DeoiiT IVandan (No. 630). 
Gur Datt' (No. 631). 
Dines (No. 633). 
GM/a/(No.657). 
Bali Ram (No. 768), 
Dhurantihar (No. 782)-, 
Nayah (No. 783). 
/I^a^ara/ (No. 793). 
Riiihi Nath (No. 794). 
Daya deb (No. 836). 
Deftr Sir)gh (No. 843). 
/l/a6r (No. 848). 
/VatA (cf.No. 850). 
Man'sa Ram (No. 885). 



Mlran (No. 892). 
ffo/ya6 (No. 898). 
Ramdpati (No. 900), 
Sasi Nath (No. 931). 
5/6 Raj (No. 932). 
//ar/Aa/ (No. 946). 
A/ew (No. 950). 
Bhim'i^). 
Chhatt' (?). 
Deban (?). 
flAaAies (?). 
OAcu-'/w (?). 
Mak'sadan (?). 
yi7a/j ffa/ (?). 
Mitfiiles (?). 
ffai/ /VatA (?). 
SahabRam (?). 
Samddhdn (?). 
Tu/a ffam (?). 



572. •ITTI'TT TT^9 the bard Ndrdyan Ray, of Banaras. 
Alive in 1883. 

He was a pupil of the poet Sar'dar (No. 571). He wrote a metrical 
commeiLtary on the Bhdkha BhQkhan (No. 377) and a gloss on the 
Kabi-priyd (No. 134). He is also author of a number of erotic verses. 



573. "T't^ ^ni the poet and bard GanSs, of Banaras. 
Alive in 1883. 

He attended the court of Maharaj Jswarl Ndrdyan Siggh. He 
was a friend of Tttdhur Pdr'sad (No. 570), the author of the Ras 
Chandroday. 

574. '^^ ^T ^rf^i the poet BansT Dhar, of Bandras. 
B. 18U A.D. 

He was son of the bard GanSs (No. 573), who was alive 
in 1883. He is author of a woilk on composition entitled Sdhityo. 
Bansidhar, and of a translation of the Rajanlti of Chdnakya 



§ 579.] HINDtJSTiN UNDEE THE COMPANY. [1800—1857.] 123 

entitled Bhdkha Raj'niti (?Rag. Cf. lifos. 840 and 919). He is also 
the author of two works on morals, entitled Bidur Prajagar and 
Mitra Manohar. He is possibly the same as a Bansl Dhar and as a 
Bmsl Dhar Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh, both without date. 

575. '^fr; «I*r «Rf^, the poet Hari 4an, of Lalit'pur. B. 
{?:EI) 1851. 

He wrote a ■commentary to the Rasik-priyd (No. 134) under the 
name of Maharaj Tswari Nardyan Sirjgfl, of Bandras. He was father 
of the poet Sar'ddr (No. 571). 

576. ^«^*f Ml6^i Bandan Pdthah, of Bandras. Alive in 
1883. 

He wrote one of the best existing commentaries on the Rdmdyan 
of Tul'sT Das (No. 128), at the suggestion of Maharaj Tswarl Nardyan 
Sijjgh, of Bandras. It is entitled Mdnas Saij^kdbali. 

577. ^TT^ Tn7^T^ ^^t the poet Jdnakl Par'sdd, of 
Bandras. Fl. 1814 A.D. 

In 1814 A.D. he wrote a commentary on the Rdm-chandrikd of 
KSsab Dds (No. 134). He also wrote a work entitled the Juki/ 
Rdmdyan, on which the poet DhanI Rdm (No. 578) wrote a 
commentary. Either he or the other Jdnakl Par'md (No. 695) may 
possibly be the same as a third poet of the same name mentioned 
by Sib Siggh without date. 

578. ^•fr TTT W%, the poet Dhani Rdm, of Bandras. 
B. 1831 A.D. 

At the rec[uest of Babii Deokl Nandan, brother of the Maharaj 
ci£anaras, he translated the Bhdsd Prakdoa from Sanskrit into the 
vernacular, and wrote a commentary to the Rdm-ofiandrikd of Kesab 
Dds (No. 134). He also wrote a commentary to the Juktl Rdmdyan 
of the poet Jdnakl Par'sdd (No. 577). 

579. ^T^^ ^f*''^ the poet and bard Ssbak, of Bandras. 
Alive in 1883 A.D. 



124 THE MODBEN UTEHAET HISTOHT OF HINDftSTiN, [§ 580, 

Sun. An erotic poet, who attended the court of Bilbu Deohl 
Nandan, brother of the Maharaj of Bandras. Possibly the same as 
No. 677. 

580. ^TTT^ ^^' ^TTi Gopal Cfiandr' SafiQ, alias Qiri 
Dhar Banar'sT, alias Gin' Dhar Das. B. 1832 A.D, 

Sun. He was son of Kail Harahh Ghandr' and father of the 
famous poet Harishchandr' (No. 581), of Bandras- His principal 
works are the Dasdbatdr and the BhdratI BhQhhan. The last is a 
commentary on the Bhdhhd BhQfthan (No. 377). Harishchandr^ 
only died in the year 1885. Of. Garcin de Tassy, i, 191. 

581. "T? rV^^»i Babu Harishchandr', of Bandras. Bom 9th 
September 1850. 

Sun. The most celebrated of the native poets of the present 
day. He has done more for the popularisation of vernacular literature 
than almost any Hving Indian. He himself was a prolific author 
in many styles, and he excelled in all. He conducted for many 
years an excellent vernacular magazine entitled the Harishchandrilid. 
He was son of Gopdl Ghandr' SdhQ alias Giri Dhar Bandr'sT (No. 580), 
who was a prolific author, but who died at the early age of 27, in the 
year 1859, leaving Harishchandra an orphan only 9 years old. The 
boy was educated at Queen's College, Banaras, and commenced to write 
at an early age. In the year 1880, so greatly had his fame extended 
that he was given the title of Bhdratendu, or Moon of India, by the 
unanimous consent of all the editors of the vernacular papers of India. 
He died in the year 1885, universally regretted, being by general con- 
sent one who was 'ajata-gatru.' He is best known (see also No. 706) 
for the Sundarl Tilah (quoted in this work as *Sun.'), published in 
1869 (Sam. 1926), which is an anthology of poems in the SawSya 
metre from the works of 69 poets. This work is by some said to 
have been compiled under his instructions by Purulfhottam Sukai, 
and has been frequently printed. One of his latest works was a 
series of excellent lives of great men, European and Indian, entitled 
Prasiddh Mahdtmdb ltd Jiban Charitr'. He was certainly the best 
critic which Northern India has as yet produced. A short account 
of his life is given in the Chandrdst of Byds Rdm Shagkar 
Sharmd, printed at the Hari Par'kas Press in Banaras in 1885, 



§ 581.] 



HINDtTSTiK UNDkE THE COMPANY. [1800 — 1867.] 



125 



after the poet's death. Also at the end of Han'shchandr's Kash- 
mir Kusum (or history of Kashmir)' there is a short account of the 
author, and a list of about a hundred works by him. One work, not 
mentioned in this list, is a play entitled KdshT ha Chhaya-chittra, in 
which there are several examples of the peculiar slang of BanSras. 
Another very popular work of his is the Kabi Bachan Sudhcl, which 
is a collection of poems dealing with the rainy season. A complete 
collection of this author's works is now in course of publication by 
Babu Ram Dm Siggh, of the Khadga Bilas Press, Bagklpur, under 
the title of the Harishohan'dra Kala. 

The following is a list of the poets quoted in the Sundarl Tilak : — ■ 



AJabSs (Nos. 24, 530). 

'Jilam (No. 181). 

Aliman (No. 784). 

Anant (No. 250). 

BalDSb (No. 263). 

BSnJ (Nos. 247, 484, 671). 

BSnl Par'bin {'5^0. 608). 

Bhag'want (No. 333). 

BOdha (No. 449). 

Brahm (No, 106), 

Chand (No. 6 or ? No. 93). 

Chhitipal (No. 332). 

Das (No. 369), 

Daya Nidh'i (? Nos. 365, 787). 

Dsb (No. 569). 

DeokT Nandan (No. 630). 

Garjg (No. 119). 

GhanJinand {No. Si7). 

GhanSyam (No. 92). 

Gokul Math (No. 564). 

Gofial Chandr' alias Gin' Dhar 

Banar'sl (No. 580). 
Gival (No. 507), 
Hanuman (No. 796). 
HariKes (No. 203). 
Harishohandra (No. 581). 
Kabiraj (No. 661). 



Kalika (No. 780). 

Kishor (No. 385). 

Lai (No. 661). 

Maha (No. 403). 

Mah'raj (No. 793). 

Mah'rand (No. 457), 

Man dan (No. 154). 

n/lani Deb (No. 566). 

Manna Lai alias Dwij (the 

Sundarl Tilak Namaball 

gives HHunna Lai) (No, 583), 
Man Siggh alias Dwij Dsb 

(No. 699). 
Mati Ram (No. 146). 
Mubarak (No. 94). 
Mur'll Dhar (No. 156). 
Nabln (No. 790), 
Nab Nidhi (No. 789). 
Najlb Khan alias RasiyS (No. 

788). 

Narendra Siggh (No. 690). 

Nares (No. 791). 

Nath (? Nos. 68, 147, 162, 440, 

632, 850). 
Nawaz (No. 198). 
NripSambhu (No. 147). 
Padmakar (No. 506). 



' Banaras, Mallika Chandra & Co. 1884. 



126 



THE MODBEN LITBEAET HISTOET 01' HlNDtJSTlW . 



[§ 582. 



Paras (No. 792). 
Paf'/jjgs (? Nos. 222, 616). 

Prem (No. 351). 

Raghu Nath of Jodh'pur 

(No. 193). 
Raghu Raj (No. 532). 
Rm Nath (No. 785). 
/?as/f/jan(No. 67). 
Rihhi Nath (No'. 794). 
Sambhu (? No. 147). 
Sar'dar (No. 571). 



Sebah (Nos. 579, 677). 

Sekhar (No. 795). . 

Sib (No. 88). 

Sn Dhar (No. 157). 

Sri Pati (No. 150). 

Suhh Deb Misar (No. 160). 

Sumerli Siggh (No. 759). 

Sundar Das {No. 142). 

r/ja/ftfr (No. 173). 

mh (No. 265). 

Tul'si Sri Ojha (No. 786). 



582. "^^t^ ^^T^ f'Tf^, Orw Dayal Gin, of fianaras. Fl. 
1855. 

Besides being learned in Sanskrit, he wrote a treatise on com- 
position (^TftjT) in the aboTO year, entitled Angofiti-Kalpadrum. 
He is also the author of two works, entitled Anurag Bag and Bag 
Bahdr respectively. 



583. 'JT'sTT ^I^? Pandit Manna Lai, of Banaras, alias DuuiJ 
Kabi. Alive in 1883. 

Sun. He is possibly the same as H^dn Sirjgh Shali'dwipl (No, 599). 
At least both take the nom de guerre of Divij. On the other hand, 
howevei; he is called Munna La! in the SundarJ Tilak tJamabalJ of 
Gobardhan Nath. 

ADDENDA TO CHAPTER X, PART II. 



584. TfTOK fSTj ntaniystr 
Siggh, the Chhattri, of Banaras, B. 

1804. 

Hia best works are tte Hanumat 
Chhablsl and the Bhakha Saundar'J 
Lah'rh 

585. T^T^tT^ ^TITOT, Gaj'raj 
Upadhya, of Banaraa. B. 1817. 

He has written a prosody entitled 
Brittahar, and a/famajfan. 

586. ^'5 Wf ^^f tlie poet 
Bans Rap, of Banaras. B. 1S44. 



A panegyrist of the Maharaj of 
Banaras. 

587. IT^SWr*!^ HIT^, Madha. 
banand Bharatl, of Banaras. B. 1843 
A.D. 

The author of a translation of the 
Cagkara Diguijaya into the vernacular. 

588. 1%^ ^7, Sib Datt; a 
Brahman, of Banaras. B. iS5^ A.D. 

Sriijg. Possibly the same as 
another 5/6 DaW Kabi mentioned by 
Sib Siggh without particulars. 



§ 593.] HINDtJSTlN UNDEE THB COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 127 

Part Ill.-Audh. 

589. "^«l*^ ^^^^ Subans Suhal, of Bigah'pur, district 
Unao. B. ir7rA.D. 

Rag., Bid. He at first attended the court of Raja Um'raw S/'ggh 
Bandhal'goth of AmBthl, district Farukhabad, and there translated 
from the Sanskrit the Amara Kd(;a (? Rag. Cf. Nos. 170, 567, 761), 
RasataragginT, and Rasamahjarl into the vernacular. He then went 
to Raja Subbd Sirjgh (No. 590) of Del, and assisted him in the 
compilation of the Bidwan Mod Taraggi'nT. 

590. ^®*|T T^'^') Raja Subba Sirjgh, the Chaiuhan, alias the 
poet SrT Dhar, of Del, district KhM. FL 1817 A.D. 

He was author of an important work on vernacular composition 
entitled Bidwan f/lQd Taraggini (written 1817 A.D., and quoted in 
this work as 'Bid.'), which deals with the whole subject-matter of 
lovers, confidants, messengers, the seasons, the various styles, etc. But 
the most important aspect of the work is that it forms an anthology 
of extracts from works by the author's preceptor, Subans Sulia/ 
(No. 589), and forty-four other poets. 

591. TsPNi^ r^lf, Dhmhal Siggh, the Bms, of iVyawa, 
district Rcig BarelL B. 180S. 

He wrote a number of short works, of which the best known is 
the Ramal Prashna, a report of conversations on geomancy between 
TJma and Qambhu. '" 

592. ^f ^ ^TT, Sahaj Ram, a Baniya of Pmtepur, district 
Sitapur. B. iSO^A.D. 

He wrote a Ramayan, which is a translation of the RaghuuamQO. 
and of the Hanuman Natalia (? Rag.). 

593. frf^ TTT f*r^Ti Rikhi Ram Misar, of Pattl. B. 

He attended the court of Bdl Krish'n, Dlwan of Judh, and was 
author of a work entitled Bans! Kalpalata. 



128 THB UODEBN LITEBIBY HISTOBT OF HINDtsTlK. [§ 594. 

594. wNr •n^i the bard Jib Nath, of Naml'gafSJ, district 
Undo. B. 1815 AD. 

He belonged to the family of Bal Krish'n, Dlwan of Audh. He 
wrote a work of merit entitled the Basant Pachisl. 



595. f^"^ ^^t Sib Sifjgh. Segar, oiKanthS, district Unclo. 
B. iS:^! A.D. 

He is the author of the Sib Siggfi SaroJ, on which this work is 
principally founded. He also translated the Brihaohchhiuapurdl}a 
both into the vernacular and into Urdu, and the Brahmdttamkhanda.^ 
into the vernacular. He has a great collection of Arabic; Persian, 
Sanskrit, and vernacular manuscripts, which he delights in cata- 
loguing. He was son of Maharaj-kumar Thakur Ran'jTt Siggh, 
Segar, Ta'aluq'dar of Kantha, and is himself an Inspector of Police. 

596. T^T 'ffl^T^ ^^^, Madan Gdpdl Sulial, of Phata- 
hdbdd {Fatutiabad). B. 1819 A.D. 

He attended the court of Raja Ar'jun Siggh, of Baliram'pur 
(district Godot), for many years. At his suggestion he wrote two 
works — the Arjun Bilds and a simple treatise on medicine entitled 
Baidya Ratan, Sib Siijgh mentions two other poets— (1) Madan Gopal 
of Char'lihdrl, in BundSl'fihand, and (2) Madan Gopdl, without any 
particulars. Neither of these are dated by him. 



597. *t^T M V*tH<fi Garjga Par'sdd, commonly known as 
Gar)g Kabi, or the poet Gayg, the Brahman of SupaulT, district 
Sitdpur. B. 1833 A.D. 

He was given the village SupauiT reni-free on account of his 
poems. His son is also a poet, and is now alive in Tihar'nd. Ganga 
Par'sad wrote a work entitled Ddti Bilds, in which the various kinds 
of lovers' go-betweens {dutl) are described in a series of punning 
verses, 

598. W ^TW? the poet and bard Jai, of Lalih'naQ. Fl. 
1845 A.D.^ 



§ 602.] HIHDtJSTlN UNDER THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 129 

He was a pensioner of Nawab Wajid 'Ull (1847—1856), of iflAAV 
nan. He wrote many poems in QrdQ and in the vernacular. He is 
esteemed by all for his poeins on morals (sftftr), his occasional (9l«lRl<ti) 
pieces, his didactic poems (^dliTl'^), etc. He had many religious 
controversies with the Musal'mans. 

599- TJ'R f^"^^ Maharaj Man Sirjgh, the Shak'dwlpl. 
alias Dwij DSb, of Audh. Tl. 1850. 

Siin. He was skilled in Sanskrit, in the vernacular, in Persian, and 
in English. About the year 1850 A.D. he composed a work entitled 
Sriggar Latikci, together with a commentary to it. In his latter 
years he gave up poetry and studied English law. He died in 1873. 
Amongst others, Thahur Par'sdd (No. 600), Jagannath (No. 601), 
and Bal Deb Siggh (No. 602) attended his court. His poetical nom 
de guerre was Dwij Deb, and he is possibly the same as Manna Lai 
(No. 583), who also wrote under the title Dwij. According to Thakur 
Par'sad, he had a son named Dar'san Siggh. 

600. "SW^ TTT:^^T^ Xr^5^ f'T^^, Tha/iur Par'sad 
PayasT Misar alias Pandit Par'bln, of Audh. El. 1850 A.D. 

He wrote under the name of Pandit Par'bln. He attended the 
court of Maharaj Man Siggh (No. 599), and lived near PaJiya 
Shah'gahj, 

601. WT^rrS? cRfif '^lif^, the poet Jagannath Abasthl, 
of Sumerupur, district Unao. Alive in 1883. 

He formerly attended the court of Maharaj Man Siggh (No. 599), 
of Audh. He subsequently obtained the patronage of Maharaj Sib 
Din Siggh, of Al'war. He has a great name for his knowledge of 
Sanskrit composition (^f%<ir). He has written detached verses in the 
vemaculaa*. 

602. ^^ %^ ^'W'> ^«/^s6 Siggh, the Chhattrl, of Audh. 
m. 850 A.D. 

He attended the court of Maharaj Man Siggh (No. 599), and 
was the teacher of Eaja Mddhab Siggh ( ? No. 604) in composition 
(€Tf%w)i 



130 



THE MODEBN LITBBABY HI3T0EY OF HISDtfSTlW. 



[§ 603. 



603. '^^T ^W 2Rf^, the poet ChandT Datt'. B. 18J:^1 A.D. 
He attended the court of Maharaj Man Sirjgh (No. 599), of 
Audh. 



604. Tra^ t^l^^ ^^i^ Madhab Stggh, of Gochl AmSthi, 
district Sul'tan'pur. AKve in 1883. 

He belongs to a family whose members tave always been great 
patrons of learning. He is so himself. Among his ancestors may be 
named Himmat Siggh (cf. Nos. 160 and 334), Gur Dutt' Sirjgh 
(No. 332), Um'rauj Sitjgh (cf. No. 589). He is author of the 
ISmoj Latiha, the Qebi-charitr' Saroj, and the Tridip (a vernacular 
translation of the Bhar'tharl (Bhartrihari) Shatak). He appears to 
be the son of Man Sirjgh (No. 599). (See No. 602.) 



605. t^^^ ^^* f^f^i Krish'n Datt' Sirjgh. the BiaSn 
RaJ'put, Raja of Bhin'gd, district Bahiraich. B. 1852 A.J). 

This Eaja was not only a skilled poet himself, but also encour- 
aged the patronage of poets in his dominions. A member of his 
family was the famous Jagat Sirjgh (No. 340), and the poet 
Sib Din (No. 606) and others less known attended his court. 
At the present day members of his family are great patrons of 
poets. 

606. T^'^ ^T ^f^l, the poet Sib Din, of Bhin'gd, district 
Bahiraich. B. 1858 A.D. 

He attended the court of Eaja Krish'n Datt' Sirjgh, of Bhin'ga, 
and in his name wrote a work on poetry entitled Krish'n Datt' 
Bhalihan. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER X, PART III. 



607. i^T«^^i Chimfljib, the 
Brahman, of Bais'wardt. B, 1818 A.D. 
"P Bag. He is said to have trans- 
lated the Mahabharata into the ver- 
nacular 



608. %h1 T|Ts^, BSnl Par'bln, 
Baj'pSy] of Lakh'naa. B. 1819. A.D. 

Sun. The author of several 
works. His best, a treatise on lovers. 
(See note to No. 87.) 



§ 622.] 



HIHDtJSTlU UMDBB THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 



131 



609. 'HfT ^TT'Sr, the bard 
Aggan Lai alias the poet Raaal, of 
Bil'gram, district Har'd6i. B. 2833 A.B. 

The author of a treatise on rhetoric 
entitled Bar'uiSi Alagkir. 

610. »l*«<.'^^:nT, the bard 
Mak'rand Ray, of PuuiawS, district 
Shah-JahSn-pur. B. 1823 A.D. 

A descendant of Chandan Ray 
(No. 374), and was the author of an 
admired work entitled Haaya Ras. 

611. 'uT ^ff^, the poet and 
bard BAdBn of Bhr, district Ray BarSli. 
B. 18S4 A.D. 

An admired erotic poet, who was 
the author of a treatise on rhetoric 
entitled Sriggar Ratnahar. His son, 
the poet Dayal (No. 720), was alive 
in 1883. 

612. Tf%KT^^rf%, the poet 
and bard Bade Ray, of DaI'mau, district 
Ray Bareli. B, 18S5. 

He attended the court of Daya 
Kishun, Diwan of Lakh'naa. 

613. «1^ ^rf^ f^TTT^, the 
•poet Sagkar Tripath'i, of Bia'vuct, district 
Sitapur. B. 183d A.D. 

In conjunction with his son, the 
poet Salik, he wrote a Ramayan in 
Kahitta metres. He is possibly the 
same as another Saflkar mentioned by 
Sib Siggh, without date, as an erotic 
writer. 

614. ^^ f'T* ^^"^ %ff*' o* 
Bachhil TitSMli, district KMrh B. 
1835 A.D. 

He translated the tenth book of 
the Bhagauata Puram (Eag.) into the 
vernacular. 

615. ^^ ^^^i tie bard Sital 
Ray of B&rl, district Bahiraich. B. 
183?'. 



He attended the court of Baja 
Guman Siggh, Jan'wai; of Ekaiina, 
district Bahiraich. 

616. ^1X7^, the bard Par'mSa, 
of SatawS, district Ray BarSll. B. 
1839 A.D. 

Sun. ( P Cf. No. 222.) 

617. ^f^ >*X: WTST!^^, Banal 
Dhar BaJ'pSyl, of Chinta KhSra, district 
Ray BarSll. B. 1844 A.D. 

A prolific author of many works. 
His Tedantic dohas are much admired. 

618. ^TTT^ ^Ti^T? ^j^m, 
Bhawinl Par'aad Pathak alias Bhawan 
Kabi, of Mouirawa, district Unao. B. 
18U A.D. 

He is the author of an admired 
treatise on poetry called Kabya 
Siromani, or Kabya Kalpadrum. It 
treats of poetry, rhetoric, lovers, go- 
betweens, the passions, seasons, etc. 

619. ^l-f H-< ^TSfT^^, Maha. 
nand Baj'pSyl, of Baia'wara. B. 1844 
A.D. 

Bag. He was a votary of Civa 
worship, and translated the Brihach- 
chhiua Parana into the vernacular. 

620. X^ ■^ ^^, the poet 
Raa Ragg, of Lakh'naa. B. 1844 A.D. 

An erotic poet. 

621. «^ srra f*WT ^r1%, the 

poet Sambhu Nath Misar, of Baia'wara. 
B. 1844 A.D. 

He attended the court of Eana 
Jadu Nath Siggh, Baia, of Khajar'g&w. 
While still young he wrote a history 
entitled Baia Banaaball, and transla- 
tion of the fourth chapter of the 

Ciua Parana. 
> 

622. ^sitarT VK»m^ ^mwi, 

AJodhya Par'aad Sukal, of Gtla Gokaran. 
nath, district Khlrl, B. 1845 A.D. 

i2 



132 



THB MODBEN IiITBBAEt HISTOET OF HINDtJSTiN. 



[§ 623. 



Not a poet of Mgli rank, but a 
voluminous writer. He wrote under 
the name of Jodhl. He was much 
esteemed in the court of a Haja Bur. 

623. ■fk'fl ^T^, the bard 
Mihl Lil alias Malind, of DaI'mau, 
district Ray Barill. B. 1845 A.D. 

Cf. No. 512. He praised one Bha- 
pHl Siogh. 

624. xm sn^ XTK^gTif, flam 
Nmth Pa/dhan, of Edh. B. 1846 A.D. 

The author of the Ram Kaleuia. and 
other books. 

625. I^rfr >?T€t, Giri DhSrl 
the Brahman, a Bais'wara of Satan'- 
pur. B. 1847 A.D. 



Sriijg. His poems either deal with 
Krisna's sports or are in the quiet- 
istic style. Hewasnot aleamedpoet, 
but wrote elegantly. 

626. f^« I ■«*<!) ^T ^ifV, the 
poet HimUchal Ram, a Brahman of 
Bhataull, district Faizabad. B. 184T 
A.D. 

A simple writer. 

627. ^T ftfT> OhStn Siggh 
alias Har Charan, the Ehattri, of 
Lakh'naa. B. 1853 A.D. 

Srigg. lie has written the Bharnt 
Dipiha and the Sriggar Saraball. He is 
possibly the same as another Chain 
Kabi mentioned 1by Sib Siggh. 



Part IV.— Miscellaneous. 

628. ^ ^5^, Jm Chand, of Jaipur. Fl. 1806. 

Author of a Sanskrit and vernacjilar work dealing with the 
doctrines of the Jain community, written in Sambat 1863 (1806 A.D.),, 
and entitled Suiami Karttikeijampreksa. 



629. '^^ ^ ^T^? Lalla Jl 'Lai of GuJ'rat, Ag-rawala. 
Fl. 1803 A.D. ®^ 

The well-known author of — 

(1) The Prem Sugar (Rag.), which was written in the above year 
under the Marquis of WeUesley's Government, and under Dr. John 
Grilchrist's direction. In the preface he says it is a translation into 
Hindi from the Braj Bhakha version of the 10th book of the Bhaga- 
vata Purana. The Braj version was by Chatur'bhuj Misar ( ? No. 40). 
The Prem Sagar was not printed till 1809, in Lord Minto's 
Government, under the direction of Mr. Abraham Lockitt. It has 
frequently been printed since, the best edition being Eastwick's 
(Hertford, 1851), which has an excellent vocabulary. 

(2) The Latalf-i-Hindi, a collection of 100 stories in Urdu, Hindi, 
and Braj Bhakha. According to Garcin de Tassy (i, 306) it was 
printed in Calcutta under the title of "The new Cyclopsedia Hin- 
dustanica, etc.," and Carmichael Smith reprinted a large portion of 
it in London under its true name. 



§ 629.J HINDtJSTSN UNDEE THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 133 

(3) The Raj'nW, or BSrttift Raj'niti, a Braj Bhakha translation 
of the HitdpadS(^a. It was written in Sambat 1869 (A,D. 1812), and 
should be distinguished frftm translations of Chanahya's Rajanlti. 
(Cf. Nos. 574, 840, 919.) 

(4) The Sabha Bilas (Rag.), a collection of poetical extracts from 
famous writers in the Braj Bhakha dialect. 

(5) The Madhab Bilas {?.'Rag.). Cf. No. 896. 

(6) The Ldl Chandrikd, an excellent commentary on the Sat Sal 
of fi/Aarr Aa/, frequently printed. Cf., however. No. 561. ,/ 

(7) The l\/la(iardir-i-Bhahha, a grammatical work on the Hindi 
language, in prose and in the Nagari character. Garcin de Tassy says 
that a copy exists in the Library of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. 

(8) The Sirjghasan BaWsI (Rag.), which was translated in 1804 
by him wa.d Mirzd Kdzim 'All bom an older Braj Bhakha translation 
by Sundar Das (No. 142). 

(9) Thefia/*a//'aeA/sr(Rag.). Garcin de Tassy gives the following 
particulars concerning this work, which I have not been able to check, 
as in the copies now available in the bazar the preface is not printed. 
This work has also been translated from Sanskrit into Braj Bhakha by 
Sarat'i Misar (No. 326) . Lallu translated this version into Hindiistani, 
assisted by Maz'har 'All Khan Wila ; or rather, it was Willi who was 
assisted by the former. Mr. James Mouat, then Professor of 
Hindustani in the College of Fort William, charged TdrinI Charana 
Mittra with, the task of looking over the work and expunging the 
Braj Bhakha words not current in ordinary Hindustani. 

I may mention, in addition to the above, that other translations 
of the same work, and bearing the same name, were made by Sambhu 
Ndth (No. 366) and by Bhold Ndtfi (No. 883). 

(10) The novel of Mddhonal or Mddhabdnal (cf. No. 872), in 
the editing of which he was again assisted by Maz'har 'Ali Khan Wila 
(see Gtercin de Tassy, l.c.). This was translated from the work by Motl 
Rdm (No. 216), bearing the same name. The legend of M adhaudnala 
and Kama Kandald is a very old one. There is a copy of the Sanskrit 
version in the Library of the Bengal Asiatic Society, which was written 
as far back as Sambat 1587, or 1530 A.D. (Rajendra Lai Mittra, 
Notices of Sanskrit Manuscripts, ii, 137.) The story is as fellows. 
In PuphduatTnagan {the old name of Bi/harT, in the Central Provinces) 
reigned Raja Gobind Rdo in the Sambat year 919, or A.D. 862. He 
had a very handsome Brahman attendant named Mddhavdnal, who 
was specially, skilful in singing and dancing, as well as an adept, in 

i3 



134 THE MODEEN LITEEAEY HISTOET OF HIKDtJSTlW. [| 629, 

all arts and sciences, so that all the women fell in love with him. The 
husbands, complained to the Raja, and Madhavanal was banished from 
Puphavati. He retired to Kam'uati, the capital of Eaja Kdm SSn, who 
was fond of music and singing, and gave the Brahman a place in his 
court. This Eaja had a most beautiful woman (a vegya) named Kdm 
Kandald, with whom Madhayanal fell in love, for which he was expelled 
from Kam'vati. He then went to Ujajn, and asked a boon from Raj5 
l/ibramdditya, who was famed for granting every request that was 
made to him. The promise was duly made, and the Brahman claimed 
to have ^am Kandala given up to him. Vikramaditya accordingly 
besieged Kam'vati and captured Kam Kandala, who was at once made 
over to Madhavanal. After some time, with Vitrama's permission, 
the happy pair retired to Puphavati, where Madhavanal built a palace 
for Kam Kandala, the ruins of which are still shown. (See Mep. 
Arch. Surv.Ind. ix, 37.) 

(11) The novel of Sakuntala, in the editing of which he was 
associated with Kazim 'All Jawan (see Grarcin de Tassy, Lc), 

In connexion with the Prerri Sugar, the following note on Hindi 
translations of the Bhagaoata Parana may be of use. 8ar Das (No. 
37) is said to have translated the whole, but his translation has not 
come down to us. According to Ward, View, etc, ii, 481, Priyd Das 
(cf. No. 319) was the author of a Bhdgavad in the dialect of Bundsl'- 
khand (see Garcin de Tassy, i, 405). The last-named author (i, 121) 
also mentions a BhUpatl (cf. No. 332), a Kayasth, who ' was author of 
a Bhagauat in Hindi verse entitled Sri Bhdgauat. There is a copy 
of it in the Library of the Asiatic Society of Bengal, and "Ward quotes 
from it. I do not know if this copy is the same as one which exists in 
the British Museum, in Halhed's collection. No. 5620. The last is 
composed of verses of nine lines each, and is written in the Persian 
character. The dialect is unintelligible. There is also a Bhdgauat 
in Hindi verse in the India Office Library, entitled Pothi Bhdgauat, 
but according to the catalogue it is only a portion of the Bhagavata 
Purana translated from the Sanskrit.' Maharaj Raghu RdJ Siggh 
(No. 532) of Baodho {RJwa) was author of a much-admired trans- 
lation of the Bhdgauata Purdna, entitled ^nanddmbudhi. Kripd Ram 
(No. 797) may also be mentioned as having translated the whole 
Purana into dohds and chmpais in simple language. 

The tenth book of the Purana, dealing with Krisna's life, is the 
most popular, and has been frequently translated. The PrSm Sdgar is 
the best known version, and those of Chatur'bhuj Misar (P No. 40) and 



§633.] HINDCSTlN UNDEH THE COMPAHT. [1800— 1857.] 135 

Nand Das (No. 42) may also be mentioned. The latter is known as the 
Dasam Shandh. The Krish'n Kallol of the poet Man (No. 372) also 
appears to belong to this group. Another translation is by ionS Sitjgh 
(No. 614). Garoin de Tassy (i, 121) says a work entitled POth'i Dasam 
I shandh is mentioned in. the catalogue of the Library belonging to a 
perspn named Farzada Quil, a copy of which is in the Fort William 
CoUege Library. ' In the same Library there is a third copy, entitled 
Sri Bhagawat Dasam Iskandh ; and a fourth, in Bhakha, exists in the 
India Office Library under the same title ' According to the same 
author (i, 404), Prem Keswar Das (No. 859) translated the twelfth 
book of the Purana, a copy of the work being in the India Office 
Library. A -commentary on this Purana was written by Balibhadr' 
(No. 135). 

630. ^^^ TS^T ^^^, Deohl Nandan Sukal, of 
Mak'rand'pur, district Kanh'pur. B. 1813 A.D. 

Sun., Srigg. He was brother of Gur Datt' Sukal (No. 631) and of 
Sib Nath (No. 632). The first is author of the Pachohhl , BHas, and 
DeokT of a Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87) and of a number of short 
poems, of which two or three hundred are extant. None of Sib Nath's 
poems have as yet been identified. 

631. ^JT! ^tP ^e|f^, Gur Datt' Sukal, of Mak'rand'pur, 
district Kanh'pur. B. 1807. 

Srigg. He was brother of Deokl Nandan (No. 630) and Sib Nath 
(No. 632). All three were good poets. His principal work was the 
Pachohhl Bilas. 

632. f%«r ^T^ ^sR^-) Sib Nath Sukal alias Sambhog Nath, 
of Mak'rand'pur, district Kanh'pur. B. 1813 A.D. 

? Sun. He was brother of Gur Datt' (No. 631) and DeokJ 
Nandan (No. 630), and was an admired poet. It is difficult to 
identify his poems owing to his habit of signing himself simply Nath. 

633. f^T"^ '^f^l the poet DinSs, of Tikarl, in district 

Gaya. Fl. 1807. 

I 4 



136 THE MODEEN LITBEAET HI8T0ET OF HINDtJSTjN. [§634. 

Srigg. In the above year he wrote a well-known and much-admired 
Nahh'sihh (see note to No, 87), entitled Ras Rahasya, (Printed by 
Ram Din Siggh, Kh^dga Bilas Press, Bdghipur.) 



634. ^^'rlTsr^^ Bakh'tawar, of Hath'ras, district AlTgarh. 
Fl. 1817 A.D. 

A religious mendicant, author of an atheistical work in Hindi 
verse, entitled SQntsar, the essence of emptiness, the purport of which 
is to show that all notions of man and God are fallacies, and that 
nothing is. His patron was Daya Ram, Raja of Hath'ras, when that 
fortress was destroyed by the Marquis of Hastings. See Wilson, 
Religious Sects of the Hindus, i, 360, and Garcin de Tassy, i, 102. 

635. '^^qt?r KT^i Dal'pat'i Ray, of Am'dabad. B. (? Fl.) 
1828 A.D. 

In conjunction with another Brahman named Bans! Dhar Sri 
Mali (No. 636) he wrote an excellent commentary on the Bhahha 
Bhahhan (No. 377). 

636. ■^"^D" ^T ^ TT^, Bansl Dhar Sri Mall, of Am'da- 
bad. B. (? Fl.) 1828 A.D. 

In conjunction with another Brahman named Dal'pat'i Ray 
(No. 635) he wrote an excellent commentary on the Bhahha 
Bhahhan (No. 376). 

637. ^?; ^1 TTff oRf^i the poet Gur Din Pare. B. (? Fl.) 
188U A.D. 

He wrote an important work, entitled the Bah Manohar Pirjgal 
(written 1803 A.D.), which treats not only of prosody, but of 
rhetoric, the six seasons, Nahh'sihh (see note to No. 87), and composition. 

638. f^H»^"R5^ ^"m %^•, Krish'nanand Byas Deb. 
Fl. 1842 A.D. 

He is best known for his Rag-Sagarodbhab Rag-Kalpadrum (quoted 
in this work as 'Eag.'), which is an anthology of selections from the 
works of more than two hundred poets who were followers of Krisna. 



§ 638.] HINDUSTAN TTNDEB THE COMPANY. [1800—1857.] 137 

It was finislied in Sambat 1900 (A.D. 1843),^ and was written in 
emulation of Raja Sir Rddhahanta Deb's weU-known Sanskrit Enoy- 
olopsedia entitled the Cabda-Kalpadruma. Some years ago this work, 
which was printed in Calcutta, sold for a hundred rupees a copy, 
but it is now out of print. 

Dr. Eajendra Lai Mittra, who as a boy was personally acqiiainted 
with him, gives me the following information, regarding this author:— 
* The book was in three volumes. The author, I remember, told me that 
he would make his work extend to seven volumes, the same as Eaja 
Radhakanta Deb's Cabda-Kalpadruma, but I do not think he had 
materials ready at hand for the purpose. He carried about with him 
a huge bundle of MS. notes, but I never had an opportunity to examine 
them, and I was too young then to care for them. The author was a 
Brahman, and his great pretension was that he could sing in three 
octaves, the ordinary compass of the human voice being two and a 
half octaves. He pretended also that he could sing in aU the Bdgas 
and Raginis with absolute accuracy, and without ever mixing up the 
latter ; but I never studied music myself, and in my youth cared nothing 
about it, so I never could get any proof of the man's pretensions. He 
was always singing, but was not a professional musician, that is, he 
never let himself out on hire. He received presents from the rich 
people of the town frequently, but never accepted anything as wages 
or remuneration for singing.' 

It would be a work of too great labour to collect the names 
of all the poets whose works are quoted in this great work. The 
author, however, in his preface gives a list of all the poets with 
whom, and all the works (Hindi, Kar'nati, Marathl, Telugu, Ghijrati, 
Bajggali, Uriya, English, Arabic, Peguan (sic), Persian, and Sanskrit) 
with which he is acquainted. From this preface the names of the 
foEowing Hindi authors and works are abstracted. Several I have 
been unable to identify, and especially several works mentioned herein 
are not referred to elsewhere in this book : — 

A.— HINDtJSTlNl AUTHOES. 



Chand (No. 6). 
Pirthwl Raj (cf. Nos. 6, 73). 
Ramanand (No. 10). 
Kabir (No. 13). 



Bidyapati (No. 17). 
Mira Bai (No, 20). 
Raja Karnn (? No. 21). 
Ndnah (No. 22). 



Kama! (No. 16). | Nam Dsb (cf. No. 22). 

» The first chapter is' dated 19th March 184,2 ; the second chapter, 1843, 



138 



THE MODEBN LITEEABr HISTOET OF HINDfTSTilT. 



[§638. 



Ghamn Das (No. 23). 
Gadadhar Misar (No. 25). 
Madhab Das (No. 26). 
_Bhag'iuan Das (No. 29). 
Ballabhaohar'J (No. 34). 
Madh'wachar'j (cf. No. 34). 
Krish'n Das (No. 36). 
Sar Das (No. 37). 
Par'manand Das (No. 38). 
Kumbhan Das (No. 39). 
Chatur'bhuj Das (No. 40). 
Chhit Swami (No. 41). 
Nand Das (No. 42). 
Gobind Das (No. 43). 
yjflr/-' /?as (No. 44). 
Kewal Ram (No. 45). 
Kalyan Das (No. 48). 
Kanhar Das (No. 52). 
Sri Bhatt (No. 53). 
Byas Swami (No. 54). 
Nimaditya (cf. No. 54). 
//rt Haribans (No. 56). 
D/iru& Das (No. 58). 
Hari Das (No. 59). 
Tan Sen (No. 60). 
/?6Aaj/ Ram (No. 64). 
CAaftfr 5//iarr (No. 65). 
Manik Ghand (No. 78). 
Ddho Das (Nos. 79, 495). 
Damodar Das (No. 84). 
Ghand Sahhi (No. 93). 
/Vafl'a/'rOas(?No. 95). 
Ram Das (No. 112), 
/Var'Aar; Das (? No. 113). 
The Holy Master {Jul'sl Das) 

(No. 128). 
Braj Nidhi {?lSo. 131). 
flAfray (? No. 136). 
Bhakhan (No. 145). 
Mati Ram (No. 146.) , 



The Holy Master Purukhdttam 

(No. 200). 
Bihdrl (No. 226). 
fia//a6A Das (? No. 239). 
A/a/flA Das (No. 243). 
A/acfan A/oAaw (No. 253). 
Kul'pati Misar (No. 282). 
GopaI'Das (No. 297). 
c/tfflTtf/ Das (No. 313). 
5ray Jr6a/J Das (? No. 315). 
SJ/aw Das (No. 316). 
Giri Dhar {No. 345). 
>Tna/?tf GAan (No. 347). 
A7a/7 BhSwan (No. 375). 
ffas//r 5/7rar7 (No. 405). 
Ram Par'sad (No. 444). 
Padmakar (No. 506). 
earfa Dhar Bhatt (No. 512). 
B/Aram (No. 514). 
Eaja Biswanath Siggh (No. 529). 
Gokul Nath (No. 564). 
Ram Sahay (No. 568). 
JanakT Das (No. 577). 
fl/anna Lai (Nos, 583, 599). 
S«6ans (No. 589). 
Jagannath (? No. 601, 764>. 
ChirJa{?'Eo. 607). 
Mahanand (No. 619). 
(?j/an Oas (? No. 651). 
Brindaban Man (? No. 722). 
Lachhiram (? No. 723). 
LoklVathQUo. 753). 
Jug Raj Das (? No. 765). 
DhbdhS (No. 766). 
Bali Ram Das {? No. 768). 
Bish'n Das (No. 769). 
Lachchhan Das (? No. 775). 
Baksa (? No. 861). 
The Holy Master Brajadhis 

(? No. 878).- 



§ 638.] 



HINDtJSTiN UNDBB THB COMPiNT. [1800— 1867.J 



139 



Hit hand (?No. 947). 

hu Tohh. 

BdijQ BaivarS, 

Bhar'tharl. 

Daya SakhJ. 

Dsb 'Xiam. 

The Holy Master Gin Dhar. 

Gopal Nayali. 

Jitaa. 

Kail Mir'ja. 

Kam'lafiar (? Padmdltar, 

No. 506).. 
Kar'tdiiyd. 
Karund Nidhdn. 
Krish'n Jlban. 
Mohan Dds. 
Nar'sT f/lati'td. 
Nar'siggh Daydl. 
Nasi Ram. 



Nli a/lanl 
Nli Ratan. 
Raghu Mahdsay. 
Ram Guidm. 
Rdm Jas. 
Rarjglld Pritam. 
Raijglli Salihl. 
Rasili Gobind. 
Rasili Rdy. 
Ray ii/lQhan. 
Rap Sandtan. 
Sah'jo Bdl. 
Sdmd Salihl. 
Saudd. 

Sawarl Sahhl. 
Sib Chandr'. 
Sond Ddsl. 
Sydm Sundar. 
Thandl Dds. 



B.— HINDUSTANI WOEKS.' 



Prithl Rdj Rdy'sd (No. 6). 

The Bljak of Kablr (No. 13). 

The Granth of the Sikhs 
(No. 22). 

Padminl Kathd (? No. 31). 

Padmdwat (No. 31). 

Suddmd Charitr' (No. 33). 
The twelve books of the Bhdga- 
uata Parana (Nos. 37, 40, 
532, 6-14, 629, 797, 859). 

Sar Sdgar (No. 37). 

Ruhminl il/laggai (No. 42). 

Rds Pahohddhydyl (? No. 42). 

Bhaitt Maid {lio. 51). 

Sagglt Saroi Tan Sen (No. 60). 
• Rdmdyan of Tui'si Dds (No, 128), 

Gltdbail (No. 128). 



Kabitta Rdmdyan (No. 128). 
Dohdbail (No. 128). 
Rdm Sat Sal (No. 128). 
Pafich Ratan (No. 128). 
Bar'we Rdmdyan (No. 128). 
Binay Pattrikd (No. 128). 
Hanumdn Bdhuk (No. 128). 
Rdm Saidkd (No. 128). 
Sri Krish'ndbail (No. 128). 
Kabi-priyd (No. 134). 
Rasik-priyd (No. 134). 
Rdm-ohandn'kd (No. 134). 
Ashta-Jdm ( No. 140 ; cf. 

No. 694), 
Bhdkhd Piggai (No. 141). 
Sigghdsan Battlsi (Nos. 142, 

629). 



' I would draw the attention of scholars to the huge list of Sanskrit 
works mentioned in the preface of this valuable work. 



140 



THE MODEEN LITEBA.EY HI8T0ET OF HINDUSTAN. 



[§ 638. 



Bhaliha Amur Kds (Nos. 170, 

567, 589, 761). 
The Shairs.oi NazlK (No. 171). 
Biharl Sat Sal (No. 196). 
Ghhattra Par'has (No. 202). 
Khat Ritu (by many poets) 

(Nos. 210, 479, 648). 
Sib Swaroday {? '^0.309). 
Saras Ras (No. 326). 
Baital Pachlsl (Nos. 326, 366, 

629, 883). 
KokSar (No. 347). 
Rasarnab (No. 356). 
Pmbodh Chandroday (the play) 

(No. 369). 
Braj Bilas (No. 369). 
Bhakha BhQkhan (No. 377). 
Salihotr- (Nos. 365, 376, 469, 

657, 854, 949). 
Rag Mala (Nos. 400, 904). 
AnSkarth and Nam Mala 

(No. 433). 
Jagat Binod {^0. 506). 
SnandRas (Nos. 561,668). 
The Mahabbarata in Braj 

Bhakha (No. 564, etc.). 
Raj mti (Nos. 574, 629, 840, 

919). 
The Shairs of Manna Lai 

(Nos. 583, 599). 
Hanuman Natak (No. ? 592). 
Prm Sugar (No. 629). 
Sabha Bilas (No. 629). 
HitSpades (No. 629). 
/l?arf//o B/Vas (Nos. 629, 896). 
Rag-Sagarodbhab Rag-Kalpa- 

drum (No. 638). 
Lilauatl (translation) (No. 912). 
Xbhas Rdmayan {?). 
Ab'tar Charitr'. 



Awadh Bilas. 

Baidya Manotsab. 

The Bhagauad Gita (transla- 
tion). 

Bedararl Katha. 

Bhakha Baidak. 

Bhakha Ghhand. 

Bhakha Indrajctl. 

Bhakha Kayada. 

Bhakha Kokh- 

Bhakha Sabar. 

Bhagol Brittdnt. 

Bidysbhyas ka phal. 

Bikh Parlchha. 

Braj Jdtra. 

Bn'nddban Sat. 

Char Dar'wesh. 

Ddktari (doctery, i.e. the art 
of medicine ! !.). 

Days Bilas. 

Dhyan MahJarT. 

GanitdjDk. 

Gar'bhabali Ramayan] 

The Ghaza/s of Sauda. 

GopI Chand Gan. 

Gorakh Machhendr' Samaj. 

Gyan Upades. 

The Hdr Mala oiNar'sT. 

Hdtam TdJ. 

Hlrd Rdnjhd. 

Kdsi Khand. 

Kautuk Ratndball. 

Krish'n Gltdball. 

Land Ghamdrl kd Mantr". 

Man MahjarT. 

Manorahjan Itihds. 

Nam Sukh. 

Nlti Katha. 

Phar'mdkoplyd ( ! I ). 

Raja Bhar'tharl Qdn. 



§ 642.] HINDtJSTiN UNDEE THE COMPANY. [1800—1857.] 



141 



Ram Binod. 
Ram Charm Chinh. 
Ras Raj. 
Rogantak Sar. 
Samudn'hci (translation). 
SaijgUa Daf)oo[na(tJanslation). 
Saggita Ratnahara ( trans- 
lation). 
SaggJi Pachisi. 



Sarpddi Jantun hi Pdthl. 

Sisu Bodh. 

SIOkabalT Ramayan (?by Tul'sT 

Das). 
Snsh Sagar. 
Stri Siohohha Bidhayafi. 
Suga Bahattari, 
Up'dss Katha. 



639. TTT TTT^^T^i Ram Par'sad, the Agar'wala, of 
Mirapur. B. (? Fl.) 18U A.D. 

Rag. Father of Tul'sl Ram (No. 640) and author of some 
quietistio poems (of. No. 444). Garcin de Tassy (i, 420) mentions an 
author of this name who wrote a Vaishnava work entitled Dharma- 
tattwCLsar. It was written at Ahmadabad. 

640. "§^*^ TJ^-) Tul'sl Ram, the Agar'wala, of Mirapur. 
Fl. 1854. 

In the above year he translated the Bhakt Mala of Nabha Das 
(No. 51) into ■&rdu. He was son of No. 639. . 

641. TT^ Tra" »ffT, Bhdnu Nath Jha. Fl. 1850 A.D. 

He attended the court of Maharaj Mahesmar' Siggh, of Dar'- 
bhagga. He wrote in Maithili. See J. A. S. B., vol. liii, p. 86. His 
best known work is a play in Sanskrit, Prakrit, and Maithili, entitled 
Prabhduatl Harana. 



642. f T?W 'TT'ST *RT, Har'kh Nath Jha, the SotI Brah- 
man, of Dar'bhagga. B. 1847 A.D. 

A Maithil poet of the first rank, who is chief Pandit at the court 
of the Maharaj of Dar'bhagga. He is the author of numerous Maithili 
songs and of more than one play {Prabandha) in mixed Sanskrit, 
Prakrit, and Maithili. The best known of the last is the Usa Harana. 
See J. A. S. B., vol. liii, p. 92. 

He is also author of several Sanskrit works. He was a pupil 
of Mod Nath Jhd and Gopdl Jhdkur, and afterward studied at Banaras 
College. He was bom at Ujain, in the Dar'bhagga district. 



142 



THB MODEBN tlTBEABT HISTOBT OF HINDtJSTlN. 



[§ 643. 



643. f^^ M<»*l^ ftJ^i Babu Sib Par'kas Sitjgh, of 
Qum'raw, district Shahabad. B. ISUU A.D. 

Tke author of a coimneiitary on the Binay Pattriha of Tul'sl DSs 
(No. 128), entitled Ram Tattwa Bodhanl. 



644. ^l*t»dl MV"^i<^i Mam'td Par'sad. the AsOthar. of 
Lakh'pura, district Fatih'pur. B. 155^ A.D. 

Ras. He belonged to the family of Bhag'want Ray, the KMehT, of 
Asothar (No. 333), and is said to have been learned in the study of 
composition (^rrf^RT). He wrote in Sanskrit, in Prakrit, in the 
vernacular, and in Persian. Sib Siggh in his Saroj (p. 57) gives a 
specimen of his powers, which consists of a verse of four lines — the first 
in Sanskrit, the second in Prakrit, the third in vernacular, and the 
fourth in Persian. Sib Siggh mentions a good Nahh'sihh (see note 
to No. 87) by a poet of this name, who is probably the same person. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER X, PART IV. 



645. HJf "TTra^, the bard 
Bhnp Narayan, of KakSpur, district 
Ksnh'pur. B. 1801 AJ). 

He wrote a metrical genealogy of 
the Cliandela Chhattri kings of Sib'- 
raj'pur. 

646. ■•4<«'rT ^f^, the poet 
Dur'ga. B. 1803 A.D. 

647. " ^^1*^^ '^» the poet 
Churamanl. B. 1804 A.D. 

A poet who praised in his works 
two patrons, named Gumiti Siggh and 
AjH Siggh. 

648. ^n^nr ^i1%, the poet AJam 
(A'zam). B. 1809 A.D. 

This Musalman was a friend of 
other good poets, and himself com- 
posed poems. His best works are a 
Nahh'sikli (see note to No. 87) and the 
Khat Ritu (Bag.) (or description of the 
six seasons). 



the poet 



649. t^ ^, 
Medha. PI, 1810A.D, 

The author of a work entitled 
Chittrabhukhan, written' in the above 
year. 

650. ^Hi^*A ^ift, the poet 
Kam'iBs. B. 1813 JLD. 

Has written an excellent work on 
lovers. (See note to No. 87.) 

651. '^TR ^r^ W^, GyBin 
Chandr" Jati, of RaJ'putinSi. B. 1813 
A.D. 

? £ag. He was Colonel Tod's 
preceptor. 

652. 

Sampati, 

653. 

the elder. 

654. 

Rlkhi Ju. 



^wrfcT qif%, the poet 
B. 1813 A.D. 
'flaJ ^r|%, the poet 

B. 1815 A.D. 

trf^ ^ ^ff^, the 
B. 1813 A.D. 



BhdJ 



poet 



An erotic poet. 



i 672.] 



HINDftsTiK UNDEB THE COMPANY. [1800—1867.] 



143 



655. ^^«l '^f^, the poet 
AmbuJ. B.1818A.B. 

His poems on morals and Us 
Nahh'aikh (see note to No. 87) are 
said to possess taste. 

656. 'hf5f<l^ ^ft%, the poet 
Kabiray. B. 1818 A.D. 

He has written some ingenions 
verses on morals (sfffcT) \ 

657. ■^S^T^^rfir, the poet fiu/a/ 
B. 1818 A.D. 

Sriz)g. His principal work is a 
Silihdtr' (Bag.), a treatise on veterinary 
surgery. 

658. ^'n Tm v^^, oma 

Nith Adhwarya, of Mdhar, district 
Fatih'pur. B. 1819 A.D. 

He wrote a vernacular commentary 
to the Brahmettara Khaifdia, 

659. t^ M <•*!"*, Bem Par'gat, 
a Brahman, of Nar'wal. B. 1823 
A.D. 

660. Anonymous, 

A raja of Uniyiri. Fl. iS25 A.D. 

Sib Siggh states that he is the 
author of very excellent commentaries 
to the Bhakha Bhuhhan (No. 376) and 
the Nahh'aihh of Balibhadr' (No. 135), 
and that the name of the author is 
missing in his copies. Uniyira. is a 
division of JSipOr. 

661. *R<.I«J ^ff^, the poet 
and hard Kabiraj. B. 1824 A.D. 

Sun. A mediocre poet. Not to 
he confounded with Sufih Deb Miaar 
of Kampila. (Ifo. 160), who sometimes 
describes himself as a kabirdj or poet- 
laureate. 

662. V\TJ ^ ^fk, the poet 
and bard Mgg Jl, of Raj'putina, Fl. 
M29 A.D, 

The author of a genealogy and 
history of the kings of the Khhhl 



branch of the C/iflaAa/ia.— See Tod's 
Mjaathan, i, 81, and ii, 454; Calc. 
ed. i, 87, andii,499.' 

Sib 8ii)gh calls him l/tak Jl. 

663. 'W. V^' ^(f^, the poet 
Gur Datt' the elder. B. 1830 A.D. 

He attended the court of Sib Siggh 
Sawai, son of Jm Si'ogh. I do not know 
who these princes were. 

664. Ti\ Vfkf the poet Hatht, 
of Braj. B. 1830 A.D. 

The author of a work entitled 
fladha Satah. 

665. ^T gif^, the poet Jir, of 
district Mam' purl. B. 1831 A.D. 

666. Pniui ^Sfk, the poet 
/fr/sA'n. B. 1831 A.D. 

He has written some detached 
verses on morals ('i'lfH). 

667. ^Tt -^n:^ MVS, the bard 
ichht Lai, oi KanaliJ. B. 1832 A.D. 

668. ^^TT^^j DayaNath 
Dabs. Fl. 1832 A.D. 

In the above year he commenced 
a work entitled ^nand Raa (Sag.), 
dealing with the subject of lovers. 

669. ^nft^, the bard Ram 
Din, of AligaHj, district Ita. B. 1833 
A,D. 

670. »Tre^ «%XT, Klakhan 
Lakhera. B. 1834 A.D. 

No particulars. Probably the 
same as a Makhan Kabi mentioned by 
Sib Siggh as born in 1813 A.D. 

671. tjff^T^^ift, the poet 
and bard BSnl Daa, of Mgwar. B. 
1833 A.D. 

P Sun. He was one of the public 
historians of l\/ISwar. 

672. t^TIH^fw, the poet 
Chhidi Ram. Fl. 1837 A.D. 



144 



THE MODERN LITEEAEr HISTOET OF HINDpSTlN. 



[§ 673. 



The author of a treatise on prosody, 
entitled Kabi-neh, written in the above 
year. 

673. '^rg^'T ^if^, the poet 
Anunam. B, 1839 A.D. 

The Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87) 
by him is said to be a good poem. 

674. ^'^^ ^, the poet Aiidh. 
B. 1839 A.D. 

Sib Siggh knows nothing about 
this poet, a specimen of whose poetry 
he gives. He suspects that he may 
be the same as AjodhyS. Par'sid BaJ'- 
<pSyJ (No. 693). 

675. Tft^T, Narottam, of the 
Osaft. B. 2S39A.D. 

676. 1^ ^"T f^rer, usini 

Ram Misar, of Sathl, district Kanh'pur. 
B. 1839 A.D. 

No particulars. He is possibly 
the same as a. Manl Rnm Kabi men- 
tioned by Sib Siggh, without date, 
as an erotic poet. 

677. ^^^ ^<f^* the poet SSbak. 
Fl. 1840 A.D. 

P Sun. He attended the court of 
Eaja Ratan Siggh, of Chakt'pur. 
Possibly the same as No. 579. 

678. ^■ra»*T X\^, Pharha Raw, 
of Gujaliyar. B. 1844 A.D. 

He was minister of Lachhiman Raw, 
and wrote a good commentary to the 
Kabi-priya (No. 134). 

679. ^^ ^rrtr ■J^<{'^, Mm 

Das Gautam, of Har'dhaUr'pur, district 
Fatih'pur. B. 1844 A.D. 

The author of numerous Vedantic 
works. 

680. TS TT^ "^TTTHIT, Raghu 
mth Upadhya, of Jaun'pur. B. 1844 
A.D. 



The author of a work entitled 
Nir'nay Manjarl. 

681. ^<?^5r qffir^ the poet 
8ukh Din. B. 1844 A.D. 
An erotic poet; 

683. ^'3'r ^rfsr, the poet 

Siikhan. B. 1844 A.D. 
An erotic poet. 

683. *l?T5ff ^m ^if^, the 
poet Bhaivanl Das, B. 1843 A.D. 

No particulars. Jai Krish'n (No. 
830) was the son of a Bhauuanl Das, 
but it is doubtful if it is this poet or 
not. 

684. W^ t^ ^« qrf%, the 
poet Bal DBb Das, of Jaiiharl HSth'ras. 
B. 1846 A.D. 

He translated the Krisria Khaifda, 
line for line, into the vernacular. 

685. ■^^^ ^*^, Awadh Bakaa 
(fiahhsh). B. 1847 A.D. 

His poems possess taste. Sib Siggh 
does not know the name of his country 
or village. 

686. ^'^^ ^T ^TiTT^Io, Sahaj 
Ram Sanadhya, of Bandhua. B. 184S 
A.D. 

The author of a history of Prahlada 
entitled Prahlad Charitr'. 

687. ^(^V ^f?, the poet 
Anls. B. 1854 A.J). 

Dig. 

688. m^ ^ ^, the poet 
Bhami Deb. B. 1834 A.D. 

689. 'i;^ ^ff^, the poet 
Bhusur. B. 1834 A.D. 

690. ^ "iR"* fkf, Maharaj 
Jcu Narind Siggh alias Narendra Siggh 
of Patiyala. Fl. 1867, D. 1862 A.D. • 

Sun. 



§ 691.] HlNDtJSTlN UNDBE THE QUEEN. [1857—1887.] 145 



CHAPTER XI. 

HINDUSTAN UNDEE THE QUEEN. [1867—1887.] 



The present chapter concludes the proper historical portion of 
this work. It deals entirely with the " India of the Queen/'— with a 
period free from internal commotion, and in which every inducement 
and encouragement has been offered for the spread and for the acqui- 
sition of knowledge. One consequence of this has been the wide 
extension of the art of printing. Large Native publishing-houses 
have risen ia Lakh'nau, Banaras, and Pat'na, from which have issued 
floods of printed works, old and new, good, bad, and indifferent. 
At the same time a mushroom growth of smaller estabKshments has 
sprung up all over Hindustan, and there is now scarcely a town of 
importance which does not possess its priuting-press or two. Every 
scribbler can now see his writings ia type or lithographed for a few 
rupees, and too often he avails himself of the power and the opportunity. 

The rise of the Vernacular Press has been a prominent feature 
of the period under review. Hundreds of sheets have sprung into 
an ephemeral existence and have died in turn, while a few have lived 
through their childhood and deservedly survive as exceptions to the 
general fate. This is not the place to allude to the tone of the Indian 
Vernacular Press, and I purposely avoid doing so, beyond calling 
attention to the fact that as a rule the Hindi newspapers ofEer a 
favourable comparison with the more disloyal and scurrilous con- 
temporaries which disgrace Baggali journalism. 

It has been impossible for me, face to face with such a mass 
of literature, to attempt to describe it with anything like complete- 
ness. I have only selected a few names which appeared to me worthy 
of notice, and even this selection I cannot pretend to be satisfactory. 
Hiadustan afr present is practically without any iadependent review 
which I could take as a guide, and I have been compelled to trust 
to my own, necessarily limited, reading, aided by the Lists of names 
given in the Sib Siggh Saroj. For earlier periods I have had the 
winnowing basket of time, which has dissipated the chaff and collected 
the grains ready for examination ; but for the present not only is 
the proportion of chaff to grain infinitely greater, but the two are as 
yet unseparated. 



146 THE MODEEN LITBBABY HISTOBT OF HINDPSTlN. [§ 691. 

Such as it is I give the following list, which contains all the 
names mentioned in the Sib Siggh Saroj, together with those of 
other writers whom I have met in th6 course of my reading, and 
which I think worthy of preservation. I must add that many writers 
belonging to this period as well as to the preceding one (some of 
whom are happily still alive) will be found entered in the last chapter. 
Some of these, e.g. Harishchandr', really belong to the post-Mutiny 
days, but have been deliberately included in the earlier period in order 
to complete the convenient consideration of groups or families of 
authors. 

691. ^irn^fTT f^^3T, Pandit Umapati Tripathl, of 
AJodhya, district Faizabad. D. 187i. 

He was a deeply-read pandit in all branches of Sanskrit learning. 
He at first lived in Banaras, but afterwards settled in AJodhya 
(Audh), where he occupied himseU with compositions and teaching. 
He died A.D. 1874. His most celebrated works are in Sanskrit, 
but he wrote a few short books in the vernacular, such as the 
Dohdball, Ratnabali, etc. He wrote under the nom de guerre of 
Kobid. 



692. T^ TT^ ^T^, Mahaut Raghu Ndth Das, of Ajodhya. 
district Faizabcid. Alive in 1883 A.D. 

He was originally a Brahman of PaitSpur, district Fatih'pur, but, 
abandoning all worldly possessions, he became a devotee of Ram, 
and wrote hundreds of admired hymns in that deity's honour. See 
No. 693. 



693. '^r^ajT TT?7^ ^TW* 5^, Ajodhya Par'sad 
Baj'psyi, of Satan'pur'ws, district Ray BarelT. Alive in 1883. 

This poet is well known as being extremely learned both in 
Sajiskrit and the vernacular. His poems are said to be full of 
taste, and of uncommon excellence. Amongst his works may be 
mentioned — 

(1) Ohhandanand. 

(2) Sahitya SudhasSgar. 

(3) Ram KabitMba/l. 



§ 697.] HINDtJSTiN UNDEE THE QDEBN. [1857—1887.] 147 

Sib Siggh says he generally resides with Raghii Ndtfl Das, 
the Mahant (No. 692), or with Eaja Jag'mOhan Siggh in Ghanddpur. 
(Of. No. 709.) He wrote under the name of Audh (of. No. 674). 

694. 'Tl^'^I M <*tjT^o Lala Gohul Par'sad, a Kayasth, of 
Balirdm'pur, district Gtdd. Alive in 1883. 

He wrote in the year 1868 A.D., in honour of the late Raja 
Dig-bijai Sirjgh (succeeded 1836), an anthology entitled Dig-bijai 
Bhukhan (quoted in this work as ' Dig.'), containing selections from 
the works of 192 poets. He is also author of works entitled Ashta- 
jam (Rag.), Chitrakaladhar, DutI Dar'pan, and others. He wrote 
under the nom de guerre of Braj. 

695. StT'Telft ^T*^T^1 the bard Jamki Par'sad. of 
JohabSnakati, district Ray BarelT. Alive in 1883. 

He is son of Jhdkur Par'sad (No. ? 570), and is learned both 
in Persian and in Sanskrit. In Urdu he has written a history 
of India entitled Shad Nama. In the vernacular he is author of 
(1) Raghubir DhySndbali, (2) Ram Naba-ratan, (3) Bhag'bati Binay, 
(4) Ram-nibas Ramayan, (5) Rdmanand Bihar, (6) Niti-bilds. 
This poet excels in picturesqueness and in the quietistic style. Either 
he or the other Jar\akl Par'sad C^o. 577) may possibly be the same 
as a third poet of the same name mentioned by Sib Siggh without 
date, who wrote an ingenious acrostic asking one Siggh Raj for a shawl 
[dusdld). 

696. 1^^ '^'^* MahSs Datt', of Ghanmll, district Bara- 
, batjhh AUve in 1883. 

He was author of a useful anthology na^ied Kdbya Saggrah 
(quoted in this work as ' Kab.' ), which was printed in Sambat 1932 
(1875 A.D.). Possibly the same as a Mah&s Kabi mentioned by 
Sib Siggh as born in 1803 A.D. 

697. •T*'^ f^R'^inT MtlTii Nand KishOr Misar alias the 
poet Lekh'rdj, of Gandhauli, district Sitdpur. Alive in 1883. 

The author of (1) Ras Ratndkar, (2) Laghu BhQkhan Alaykdr, 
(3) Garjgd Bhukhan. He is lambar'ddr of the village of Gandhauli. 

k2 



148 THE MODEEN LITEEAET HI8T0EY OF HIHDtfSTlH. [§ 698. 

He is possibly the same as two other poets mentioned by Sib Siggh, 
viz. Nand Kabi and Nand Kishor Kabi. The latter is author of a 
work entitled Ram Krish'n Gun-Mat. 

698. TTfTT "^t^ f't^T Mats Din Misar. AHve in 1883. 

He translated the Shah Nama into the vernacular. In Sambat 
1933 (A.D. 1876) he published the Kabi Ratnakar ( quoted in this 
work as ' Kab.' ), an anthology eontaining poems by twenty poets. 



699. fW^ JTOT^i Raja ^iva PrasSd,^ c,s.i., of Banaras. 
B. 1823. AKve in 1887. 

This gentleman, the well-known friend of education in India, is 
the grandson of Bibi Ratan KMr (No. 376). He is also well-known 
for his efforts to popularise a style of the Hindustani language, which 
he calls the colloquial speech of Ag'ra, Dilll, and Lakh'nau, or of 
Hindiistan proper, midway between the Persian-ridden Urdu and 
the Sanskrit-ridden Hindj. These efforts have given rise to a lively 
and not yet decided controversy amongst the natives of India. He 
is a most prolific author of works on education, and a complete list 
of his books, communicated by himself, is appended to this section. 

The following account of his life is compiled partly from the 
Modern History of the Indian Chiefs, Rdjds, Zammddrs, etc., by Loke- 
nath Ghose, and partly from materials kindly furnished to the author 
by the Raja himself. Towards the end of the 11th century there was 
ft man named Dhandhal, of the Pawar (Pramara) tribe, in Ran'tham- 
bhor {Jaipur territory) . Having obtained a son through the blessing 
of a Jain pontiff, he embraced that religion and was included in the 
Os'wal caste. Ean'thambhor being taken and plundered by Alau'd-dln 
KhiljT late in the 13th century, the family migrated successively to 
AhmadSbad and ChampanSr, and settled finally in Khambhat. Amor 
Datt', twenty-sixth in descent from Dhandhal, presenting a diamond to 
Shah Jahan (1628 — 1658), pleased him so much, that the emperor 
conferred on him the title of Eay, brought him to Dilll, and made him . 
court jeweller, Eay Amar Datt' died leaving one son, who married a 

' The name is transliterated thus because it is the way he spells it himself. 
Aecording to the system of transliteration adopted in this book it would be 
^iva Prassda, Sib Par'sad, or Siu Par'ssd. 



§ 699.] HINDtJsTlN tfNUBE THE QtrEEN, [1857—1887.] 149 

sister of Seth Manik Ghand, of Murshidabad. The youngest son of 
this marriage, Jagat Ssih Fatah Ghand, was adopted by his uncle 
the Seth, and two of his elder brothers having been kiUed in the sack 
of Dilll by Nadir Shah, the family settled in Murshidabad. Fatah 
Chand's grandson Jagat Ssth Mah'tab Ray was arrested with his 
cousin Raja /Ja/ Ghand by Nawab Kasim '/III Khan for taking up the 
cause of the British and joining Lord Olive, Eaja Dcil Ghand 
escaped and reached Banaras, where he ended his days under the 
protection of the.Kawab Wazir of Audh. 

Haja ^iua Prasad is the son of Babu GopT Ghand and great grand- 
son of Raja Dal Ghand. He lost his father when only eleven or twelve 
years of age, and was brought up by his mother and grandmother, 
the latter of whom, BibI Ratan Kiiar (No. 376), was one of the most 
learned women of her age. He partly owes his education, though 
very slightly, to Banaras College, then only an English Seminary? but 
he is emphatically an example of a self-made and seK -instructed man. 
Of his grandmother he says, with characteristic modesty, "the best 
part of the little knowledge I may be credited with, I acquired from 
her." In his youth he was strongly anti-European in his ideas, and 
hence in his seventeenth year he accepted the post of Wakil to the late 
Maharaj of Bharat' pur to attend the court of Colonel Sutherland, the 
then Governor-General's Agent at Aj'mer. He says :— "My expenses 
under the Maharajah were somewhat about Rs. 5,000 per mensem 
but I found the Dar'bar there rotten to the core, and as hopeless as 
anything can be on earth. I became disgusted, resigned, returned 
and wanted to become an ascetic ; but my friends commenced 
taunting me. They called me a fool and a mad man. They said 
' Patayg achchhd charha thd, lekin got kha gay a,' — 'a paper kite 
had got fine and high, but was swooping down again,' or 'Andhe Ae 
hath hater lag gal thi,' — ' a quail had fallen into the hand of a blind 
man.'^ I could not bear this, and I made up my noind again to serve 
but some one who was greater than the Maharajah of Bharat'pur, I 
joined Lord Hardinge's camp before Firoz'pur. Mud'kl had been 
fought, and Sobraon was about to be fought. There the treatment I 
received opened my eyes. I vowed I would never serve a Native 
again." He rose to be Mir MunshI of the Simla Agency when 
Mr. Edwards became Superintendent of the Protected HiU States there, 
and he looks back to that period as the best part of his life. When 

'■ That is, excessive luck. It usually takes several men in full possession 
of their eyes to net a single quail. 

k3 



150 



THE MOBEEN LITEHAHY HI9T0EY OF HINDPSTlN. 



[§ 699. 



Mr. Edwards in 1851 or 1852 went home on furlough, Raja S^iva Prasad 
resigned, and on account of the old age of his mother, intended to live 
a private life in Banaras ; but Mr. Tucker, the then Governor-General's 
Agent at Banaras, prevailed on him to accept the Mir Munshiship 
of that Agency, and afterwards obtained for him the post of Joiut- 
Inspector in the Department of Public Instruction. Sir W. Muir 
made him a full Inspector, and after serving the Government 
for thirty years he retired on a well-earned pension, and is now living 
at Banaras. He has received many honours from Government, 
amongst which may be mentioned the hereditary title of Raja and 
the Companionship of the most exalted Star of India. The following 
extract from a letter written by him to the author wiU fitly conclude 
this notice : — " I have just written to a friend in England jthat if he 
ever has to name a man who at least claims to be contented, thankful, 
and happy, he can name.S^iva Prasad. I have one son and three 
grandsons » * * Jfy occupation now is culture of land and 
culture of mind." 

The following is a list of Raja S'iva Prasad's vernacular works : — 



Bo. 


Barnes of Books. 


Subject. 


Semarks. 




HINDI. 






1 


Bar'n M&li 


Primer 


With stories and engravings. 


2 


Bal Bddh 


Easy Header 


Originally written in English 
by Mr. W. Edwards. 


S 


BidySijkur 


An adoption of Cham- 
bers's Eudiments of 
Knowledge and a few 
pages of Introduction 
to Sciences. 


"With illustrations. Originally 
written for Mr. Edwards' 
schools in the hills. Its Ur- 
du version is caRei Huqaiqw 
'/-maujadat. 


4 


Bimn-man Ranjan 


Some " celebrated wo- 
men of the East and 
West. 


Taken from English and 
Baggali books for Mr. 
H. C. Tucker. Its Urdii 
version is caUed HiMgatu'l- 
Salihat. 


6 


Hindi Byaharan ... 


Hindi Grammar 


Its counterpart in tJrdii is 
called Sarf-dNahw-i-Qrda 
(No. 19). 



§ 699.} 



HINDtJSTlN UNDER THE QUEEN. [1857 — 1887.] 



151 



No. 


Names o{ Books. 


Subject, 


Kemarks. 




HINDI. 






6 


Bhugol Hasta- 


Geography 


Compiled from ho less than 




malah. Part 1. 




a hundred books of reference. 




(Asia.) 




with coloured maps. Its 
Urdu version is called ./am -/- 
Jahan Numa (No. 20). 


7 


Chhota Bhagdl 


Ahridgment of~ the 


Its Urdu version is called 




Haatamalab. 


Bhugol Hastamalak 
(No. 6). 


Chhota Jam-i-Jahan Numa, 


8 


/tihaa TimirNiahah 


History of India from 


In English, History of Hin- 




' (in three parts). 


the earliest ages to 


dustan ; in Urdu, Ano-/. 






the Queen's Proclama- 


Tarikh Numa. 






tion, 1858. 




9 


GuVka. 


Selections. 




10 


Manaua Dharma- 


Extracts from the -In- 


With original Sanskrit. 




aar. 


stitutes of Manu. 




11 


Ditto 


Ditto 


With Sir William Jones's 
English translation. 


12 


Sandford cuir tiler- 


Hindi version of Qissa-i- 


(In the Press.) 




ton hi kahittl. 


Sandford-o-Merton 
(No. 25). 




13 


Sikhi ka Uday 


Bise and fall of the 


Compiled from authentic and 




Ast. 


Sikh nation. 


official records. ' Its Urdu 
version, Sikhi ha Tula' aUr 
Ghurab, is in the Press. 


14 


Swayambddh OrdD. 


Urdu Primer and Self; 
Instructor. 


Out of print. 


16 


AggrSzl Achchhari 


Eoman cha;racterB 


Ditto. 




keslkh'nekl Upay. 


• 




16 


Baohchtka. In'am. 


A little prize -book for 
children. 


• 


17 


Raja BhdJ ka Sap'na 


A story 


Written for Mr. H. C. Tucker. 


18 


BlrSiggh ka Brit- 


Against infanticide „, 


Written for Mr. W.Edwards, 




tant. 




Out of print. 




URDU. 






19 


Sarf-B-Nahw-i- Urdu 


Urdu Grammar. 




20 


Jam-i-Jahan Numa 


Geography. 




21 


Chhota Jam-i- 


Abridgment of Jam-i- 






Jahan Numa. 


Jahan Numa (No, 20). 





k4 



152 



THE MODBEN LITBEART HISTOET OP HINDftSTlN. 



[§ 700. 



No. 


Names of Books. 


Subject. 


Semarks. 




URDU. 






22 


nfazSmin 


Selections. 




23 


Kuchh Bayin ap'nl 


A lecture on tlie vernac- 






Zuban ka. 


ulars, delivered be- 
fore the Banaras In- 
stitute. 




24 


Oil Bah'laa (in 
three parts). 


Miscellany 


Written for Mr. H. C. Tucker. 


26 


Qiasa-i -Sand ford - 


Translation, or rather 


Ditto. 




o-Merton. 


adaptation,of Sandford 
and Merton. 




26 


Dunnallan 


Beauties of Christianity, 


Translated for Mr. H. C. 






or life of a Methodist 


Tucker. Out of print. 






Christian gentleman. 








Abridged from Grace 








Kennedy. 




27 


Gulab SQr ChamSli 


Adaptation of the 






ha Qissa. 


above. 




28 


SachcM Bahadurl 


True heroism 


Translated for Mr. H. C. 
Tucker. 


29 


Miqra'atu'l-kahilln. 


Life in earnest... 


Written for Mr. H. C. Tucker. 


30 


Shahadat-i- Quran} 


Testimony borne by 


Written for a gentleman. 




bar Kutub-i-Rab- 


the Quran to the 






banh 


Bible. 




31 


Tarlkh-i-halisa ... 


TTi story of the early 
cl^urch. 


Ditto. 


82 


Farsl Sarf-o-Nahw 


Persian Grammar ia 
Urdu. 

• 






<5i._ 







ri. 1870 A.D. 

A prolific and muck-admired writer in the BaisVarl dialect. 

TOl. '^^Tr ^T^, Phatm (or Fatm) Lai, a Kayasth, oi 
Tir'hut. Fl. 1874 A.D. 

Tke author of a very popular poetical account of the famine of 
1873-74, entitled Kabitt' Akdlh written in the Maithill dialect. See 



§ 705.] HINDtTSTiN UNDEB THE QUEEN. [1857—1887.] 153 

J. A. S. B., extra No., 1881, p. 24 {Maithil Chrestomathy., by 
Q-. A. G-rierson)." 



702. "^^ *RT, Chandr- Jha. AKve in 1883. 

A Kving poet of Mithila of considerable eminence. He attends 
the court of Maharaj Laehh'mlshwar Slrjgh Bahadur oi Dar'bfiagga, 
and is author of a much-admired Rcimayan in the MaitMlI dialect of 
Bihsrl. 

703. ^TT ^rrfr^i «/«« SaMb. Died about 1883 A.D. 
This is the poetical name of Mr. John Christian, the only 

European writer with whom I am acquainted whose vernacular poetry 
has made its way to the masses. He was a prolific writer of Christian 
hymns, which are known to all the singers of TirTiut, most of whom 
recite them without any idea of their original meaning. His most 
admired work is the Muliti-Muktaba.ll, a metrical life of Christ. 

704. '^rf'^^T ^tP» «S|T^, AmbiliaDatf Byas,oi Banams. 
AKve in 1888 A.D. 

A rising author. He has written several plays, which will be 
found mentioned in Ko. 706. His Bharat Saubhdgya was written 
in honour of her Majesty's Jubilee. Amongst his other works may 
be mentioned Madhumatl, a translation of the well-known Bangali 
novelette of that name. 

705. ^t^ ^rnr f?T^1Tr, Pandit Chhotu Ram Tiwarl, of 
Banams. B. cir. 1840 A.D. ; D. 1887 A.D. 

This gentleman was for many years Professor of Sanskrit at Pafna 
College, and it was the author's privilege to number him amongst his 
more intimate friends. His knowledge of the earlier vernacular poetry 
of his country was profound and accurate, and his reputation extended 
over a wide area. As a writer of his own language his fame rests on 
his Rdm Kathd, of which, I believe, no authorised edition was ever 
published. It is admittedly a model of the very purest and best 
modem Hindi, free alike from vulgarisms and from pedantry. He kept 
the proofs of the work by him for several years, incessantly polishing 



154 THE MODEEN UTEEABT HISTOBT OF HINDffSTlN. [§ 706, 

it and repolishing it, till the dky of his death. So much was the 
work admired that there was a large sale of these proof-sheets, which 
achieved great popularity, and extracts from them have been given 
prominent situations in the many Readers and A-nthologies which have 
been issued of late years. 

He was son of Debl Dayal Trlpathl, and had two brothers — ^an 
elder, named Sital Par'sad, author of a play entitled Janakl Matjgal, 
the first Hindi play ever acted, and a younger, called GOpl Ndth, who 
was father of Kali Par'sad Tiwdri (No. 739). 

NOTii ON THE HINDI' AND ON THE BIHIE! DEAMA. 

706. The Hindi drama is a plant of very recent growth. It is 
true that some of the earlier writers wrote what they called ndfaks, for 
instance NiwaJ (No. 198) wrote a SakuntalS, and Braj Basl Das 
(No. 369) and others translations of the PrabodhCL Chandrodaya ; 
but these were plays only in name, being without entrances and 
exits of the characters. Similarly, the Deb Maya Prapanch of 
the celebrated poet Deb (No. 140), the Prabhdwatl written, for 
the Maharaj of Banaras, and the l^nand Raghunandan written 
for Maharaj Biswanath Siggh (No. 529) oiRtwa, are wanting in 
the essentials of dramatic poetry. 

The first Hindi play in which there are regular exits and entrances 
for the characters was the Nahukh Ndtak of Giridhar Dds {Gopdl 
Chandr') (No. 580), which deals with Indra's expulsion from his throne 
by Nahu^a and his subsequent reinstatement. Harishchandr', the son 
of the author, was seven years old at the time it was written, which 
was therefore the year 1857. 

The next Hindi play in a really dramatic form was the Sakuntald 
of Raja LaGhhman Sijjgh, which has in later years been edited 
by Mr. Pincott. It was followed by Harishchandra's (No. 581) 
Bidyd Sundar, founded on the well-known BaggaU poem of that 
name, but happily free from its obscenities. The fourth was the 
Taptd Sambamn of Srlnibds Dds, the fifth Harishahandm's BaidikT 
Hinsd, and the sixth Totd Rdm's Keto Kritdnt. These examples 
foimd many imitators. 

The first Hindi play ever performed was the Jdnaki Maggal of 
SUal Par'sdd Tiwdr'h elder brother of ChhotQ Ram Tiwdri (No. 705). 

•Partly abridged from Harishchandra'a 'Nata/i ;' Shri ffarishchandra KalS) 
p. 38. 



§ 706.] 



HINDtTSTiN UNDEB THE QUEEN. [1857—1887.] 



155 



This took place in the Banaras theatre in the Sambat year 1925 
(1868 A.D.), and was very successful. It was followed by the Ran 
Dhir Prem il/lohinl of Srlnibas Das and the Satya Harishohandr' of 
Harishchandr' at Allahabad waA Kanh'pur. 

In Bihar, on the contrary, a dramatic tradition has existed for 
nearly five centuries. BidySpati Thakur (1400 A.D.) (No. 17) was 
the author of two plays — the Parijat Hamn and the Ruhminl 
Swayambar. Manuscripts of these plays exist, I believe, to the 
present day, but I have never seen them. Lai Jha (No. 363) 
was author of the Gauri Paxinay. At the beginning of the present 
century Bhanu Nath Jha (No. 641) wrote the Pfabhabatl Hamn. 
Har'hh Nath Jha (No. 642) is author of the Uliha Hamn or (in 
Sanskrit) Usci Hamna. AH these poets were Maithil Brahmans. It 
must be admitted that their works hardly come under the name of 
vernacular plays, as the characters speak in Sanskrit and in Prakrit, 
only the songs being in Maithili. 

The following is a list of Hindi plays given by Harishohandr', I.e. 



Name of play. 


Author. 


Nahulih Natak 


Girldhar Dds. 


Sahuntala 


Laohhman Siggh. 


Mudrd Rachhas 


Harishohandr'. 


Satya Harishohandr' 


Ditto. 


Bidya Sundar 


Ditto. 


Andher Magarl 


Ditto. 


Visasya Visamauaadham 


Ditto. 


Sat'i Pratap 


Ditto 


Ghandrabali 


Ditto. 


Madhurl 


Ditto. 


Pdfihan d Biramban 


Ditto. 


Nab Mallika 


Ditto. 


Durlabh Bandhu 


Ditto. 


Prem Joginl 


Ditto, 


Jaisa Kdm Waisd Pari nam ... 


Ditto. 


KarpQr Manjarl 


Ditto. 


Nil DebJ 


Ditto. 


Bharat Durdasd 


Ditto. 


BharatJananT 


Ditto. 


Dhananjay Bijay 


Ditto. 


Baidikl Hinsd 


Ditto. 


BQrh Muh Muhdse, Log ChalS 




TamdsS 


Gohul Chand. 



156 



THE MODEEN IITEEAET HISTOET OF HINDtJSTIN. 



[§ 707. 



Name of play. 

Adbhut Charitr', or Gn'h 
Ghandl 

Taptd Sambaran 
Ran DhJr PrSm Mohini 
Keto Kritant 
Sajjad Sumbul 
Sham'shad Sausan 
Jay Nar'sirjgh kl 
Holi Khages 
Chachchhu Dan 
Pad'mdwatl 
Sarmishthd 
Chandr' Sen 
Sarojinl 
Sarojini 

Mrichchhahatika 
Baraggana Rahasga 
BigySn Bibhdkar 
Lalita Ndtikd 
Deb Purukh Dn'shya 
BenlSarjghdr 
Go Sarjkat 
Bharat Saubhsgya 
Janaki Maggal 
Dukkhini Bald 
Padmdwati 
Mahd Has 

Ram Lila 

H/lriehohhakatikd ..: 

Bdl Khel 

Rddhd Mddhab 

Wenis kd Sauddgar (Merchant 
of Venice) ^ 

Mn'chchhakatikd 
Wenis kd Sauddgar 



Author, 

Sri Math 
Srinibds Dds, 

Ditto. 
Totd Ram. 
Kesho Rdm Bhati. 

Ditto. 
Deokl Nandan TiwdrT. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Bdl Krish'n Bhatt. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Ganes Datt'. 
Rddhd Charan Gosaf. 
Gadd Dhar Bhati. 
Bad'ri Ndrdyan Ghdudh'ri. 
Jdnl Bihdrl Ldl. 
Ambikd Datt' Byds. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 
Sital Par'sdd TiivdrJ. 
Rddhd Krish'n Dds. 

Ditto. 
Maharaj Kumar Kharag Ldl 

Bahddur Mall. 
Ddmodar Shdstrl. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Ditto. 

Baleswar Par'sdd. 
Jhdkur Daydl Sirjgh. 
Ditto. 



ADDENDA TO CHAPTER XI. 



707. T^H ^ffsr, the poet -and 
bard PaHoham, of QaI'maU, district 
ffaj/ Bam. B. (P Fl.) 1867 A.D. 



708. lira 'g«^, Pft^l Chand, a 
Brahman, of Bais'wara. B. (? PI.) IS^i 
A.D. 



725.] 



HINBtJSTXN UNDEE THE QUEEN. [1857—1887.] 



157 



Sib Siggi gives two poets of this 
name ; the second without date. 

709. «?X^^f^ f^T> Kumar 
Sudar'san Siggh, of Chandapur. (Cf. 
No, 693.) B. (? Fl.) 1873. 

He has published a collection of 
his own poems. 

710. mf%^'^^> mnikChand 
ihe Eayasth, of district Smpur. B. 
{? Fl.) 1873 A.D. 

711. ^T^ftfT* AnandSiggh 
alias Dur'ga Siggh, of Ahawanadi Koliya, 
district Sltapur. Alive in 1883 A.D. 

712. t^ ^'ViX^, f^^i^ 
lewarl Par'sad Trlpathi, of Plr'nagar, 
district Sltapur. Alive in 1883. 

He has written a translation of 
the Ramayana of Valmiki in the form 
of an epic poem in various metres 
under the name of the Ram Biias. 

713. ■^iTT^'m fW ^^''^f t'le 
bard Um'raw Sir/gh, of SSid'pur, 
district Sltapur, Alive in 1883. 

714. ^ ^f 'Cra ^^'Tj 
the bard Gur Din Ray, of Paiteya, dis- 
trict Sltapur. Alive in 1883. 

He attended the court of Baja 
Ran Jit Siggh Sah JSg'rB (No. 716), of 
Jsanagar, district Khirl. 

715. ^^ ^ ^i^ ^W^, ^he 
poet Bat DSb Abaathi, of Dasapur, 
district Sltapur. Alive in 1883. 

Under the name of Kaja Dal 
thambhan Siggh Gaur Sawaiya, of 
Hathiya, he wrote a work on lovers 
entitled Sriggar Sudhakar. 

716. xa ^ttr 1%^ ^r^ smi^, 

Eaja Rart Jit Siggh Sail Jag're, of 7sa- 
nagar, district Kiilrl. Alive in 1883, 

The author of a, translation of the 
Hrivarhea, 

717. 3TfPC TTTrST^ f%t^, 
Jliakur Par'sad TribSdi, of AllgaHj, 
district /TA;/-/. Alive in iSS5. 



718. ^an^ ^^ f^^, 
Wcyari ia/ Tribidl, of /l/fffany, district 
/fA/ri. Alive in 1883, 

A quietistic and moral poet. 

719. 1WT ^^STT^r ^, ea^ga 
Oai/a/ Ou6g, of Nia'gar, district Ray 
BarSlI. Alive in 1SS5. 

Said to be skilled in Sanskrit and 
the vernacular. 

720. ^m^ ^, the poet and 
bard Dayal, of B%tl, district Ray Barell. 
Alive in 1883. 

He is son of the poet Bliaun 
(No. 611). 

721. f^'TT^, the bard Biswa- 
natli, of Tikal, district Ray BarSll. 
Alive in 1883. 

He praised one Ran'Jlt Siggh ( P No. 
716). He is possibly the same as a 
Biswanath Kabi mentioned by Sib 
Siggh as born 1844 A.D., who has 
written a number of poems on the 
manners and customs of the people of 
iMkh'naa. 

722. f^'^Sf^, Brindaban, a 
Brahman, of Sem'raUta, district Ray 
Barell. Alive in 1883. 

PEag. No particulars. He is 
possibly the same as a Brindaban Kabi 
mentioned by Sib Siggh. 

723. ^f1%KTr ^, the poet 
and bard Lachiiiram, of Hoi'pur, dis- 
trict Barabaghl. Alive in 188^. 

He wrote a treatise on lovers (see 
note to No. 87) under the name of 5/6 
Siggh (the author of the anthology), 
and called it 5/6 Siggli Saroj, Cf. 
No. 126. 

724. *W ^^nr, the bard Sant 
Bak's, of Hdl'pur, district BSrabagkl. 
Alive in 1883. 

Cf. No. 126. 

725. «*TX: fty, Samar Siggh, 
a Chhattri, of Har'ha, district Bara- 
bagkl. Alive in 1883. 

The author of a Ramayan. 



158 



THE MODEEN LITEBAET HISTOBT OF HINDtJSTiN. 



[§ 726. 



726. f^^ f<Hi9 ^, the poet 
Sib Par'sann, aSak'dwIpi Brahman, of 
Rim'nagar, district BarSbagki. Alive 
iu 1883. 

727. i|t?rTTHT^«, sua nam 

Da^, a Baniya, of BlrSpur, district 
Barabaghi. Alive in 1883. 

728. ^H l<ffT f^TT^, \eunakar 
TripatM, of Kantha, district Unao. 
Alive in 1883. 

He writes in Sanskrit and in the 
vernacular. His family is famed for 
its knowledge of astronomy. 

729. 'S^ XJ^, Sukh Ram, a 
Brahman, of Chauhattari, district 
Unao. Alive in 1883. 

He is possibly the same as a Suhh 
Ram Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh as 
B. (? Fl. ) 1844 A.D. and as an 
erotic poet. 

730. t^ ^^, tlie bard Dsbl 
Din, of Bil'gram, district War'rfof. Alive 
in 1883. 

His best works are a Nakh'sihh 
(see note to No, 87) and the Ras. 
dar'pan. 

731. »Tifrr ^^ ^^rsr, n/iata Din 

Suhal, of Aj'gara, district Par'tap'garh, 
Alive in 1883. 

He attends the court of Eaja Ajlt 
Siggh, of Par'tap'garh. Some verses 
by him, entitled Gyan Dohaball, will 
be found in the Bhahha Sar of Sahib 
Prasad Siggh. 

732. ^'^n ^^^, Kanhaiya 
Bahhsh the Bms, of Bais'wara {Audfi). 
Alive in 1883. 

His best work is in the quietistic 
style. 

733. ■prft ^rrft W^, Gin Oharl 
Bhat, of Mau Ranipura, ' in district 
Jhansl, BundSl'hhaidK)!. Alive in 1883. 



734. ^^^«, the bard Jab'rSs, 
of BundSI'tiliaricl. Alive in iS85. 

735. T^ ^t fll^, Baja Ran 
Dfilr Siggh, Sir'maur, of Sigg'ri Mau. 
Alive in 1883. 

Besides being a patron of poets, he 
is author of the Kabya Ratnaliar 
(written 1840 A.D.) and the Bhulihan 
Kaumudl (written 1860 A.D.). There 
are many towns of the name of Mail 
in India, but I have been unable to 
identify that named as above by Sib 
Siggh. 

736. f^^T, Pandit Sib Din 
alias Raghu Nath, a Brahman, of Rasul- 
abad. Alive in 1883. 

The author of the Bhabamahimna 
and other works. Possibly the same 
as a 5/6 Din Kabi mentioned by Sib 
Siggh without particulars. There 
are several towns of the name of 
!Basulabad in India. I do not know 
which is the one above referred to. 

737. K'W^TrRpf, Ram Nara. 
yan, a Kayasth. Alive in 1883. 

An erotic poet. He is MunsH to 
Maharaj Man Siggh (No. 699). 

738. '*ir*N*l IK««1?, AmbikSt 
Par'sad. Alive in 1883 A.D. 

He belongs to the Shahabad dis- 
trict, and is the author of numerous 
songs in the Bhoj'piiii dialect, which 
are not of great mmt, but are valu- 
able as samples of the author's 
mother tongue. A number are given 
in Part II of Seven Grammars of 
the Bihar Dialects. 

739. ^n^ tRr«K fjT^rft, 
Kali Par'sad Tiwarl, of Banaras. 
Alive in 1888. 

This gentleman is Head Pandit of 
the Jhaaganj City School, in Pat'na. 
He is the author of several school- 
books, and of a Bhaliha Ramayan, 
in mixed Hindi prose and Terse, in 



§ 740.] 



HINDtfSTiN UNDER THE QTTEBN. [1837—1887.] 



159 



a simple style, which is much admired. 
He is nephew of Pandit Chhdta Ram 
Tiwan (No. 705). 

740. f%f ift ^m ^ Bihan 

Lai Chaiibg, Assistant Professor of 
Sanskrit at Pat'na College^ Alive in 
1888. 



This gentleman, besides writing a 
large number of useful school-books, 
is author of a 'useful work on rhetoric 
entitled Bihar] Tul'si Bhuhhan BSdh. 
He is also editing a good edition of the 
Sat Sal of Tul'si Das (No. 128) in the 
Bibliotheca Indica. 



160 



THE MODEEN IITBEAET HISTOET OF HINDtJSTiN. 



[§'74L 



CHAPTER XII. 

MISCELLANEOUS. 



The following chapter contains the names of a number of minor 
poets, whose dates I have not been able to fix. 

I.— Poets mentioned in the Kabi-mala of Tul'si (No. 153), 
and therefore earlier than 1655 A.D. 



741. W ^> the poet Sagkh. 

742. ^T^ ^rl^j the poet Sahab. 

743. f^« '*f^j the poet Siddh. 

744. ^3f% ^ff^j the poet 
Subuddhi. 



745. ^ ^^ ^ffV, the poet 
Sri Kar. 

746. ^ f? ^, the poet 
Sri Hath. 



II.— Poets mentioned in the Hajara of Kalidas Tribedi 
(No. 159), and therefore earlier than 1718 A.D. 



747. 'al«s«f'rt ^if^, the poet 
Jas'want the younger. 

748. •ft'iPt ^if^, the poet TMu 
If I understand Sib Siggh aright, 

poems hy him are included in Haj. 

749. ^"^ '^, ^^^ POfi* ^^*'' 
If I understand Sib Si^gh aright, 

poems by him are included in Haj. 



750. f^T vnr ^, the poet 
Dila. Ram. 



751. KTT ^xr qjf%, the 
flam Rup. 

I have collected several 
by him in Mithila. 

752. ^Ft^ ^, the poet LodhS. 



poet 



songs 



III,— Poets mentioned in the Kabya-nir'nay of Bhikhari Das 
(No, 344), and therefore earlier than 1723 A.D, 



753. ^ftli srra ^rfW, the poet 
Ldk Nath. 

Also in Hag. 

754. 'S^TT 'rft', Sayyad Gulam 
Nabl alias the poet Ras Un,oi BU'gram, 
district Har'doi. 

Besides being learned in Arabic 
and Persian, he was also a master of 
the vernacular. He wrote a naJch'- 
silch called Agg Dar'pan (dated 1637 
A.D.), and a treatise on rhetoric, 
entitled Raa Par'bodh (dated 1741 A,D.) 



There is something wrong about these 
dates. The latter is probably the 
correct one. 

755. ^1% ^f^, ^he poet Ball. 
An erotic poet. 

756. -^^ ^fflT, the poet 
Rahlm. 

He is distinct from 'Abdu'r Rahlm 
Khan'hhSna (No. 108). It is difficult 
to distinguish between the works of 
this poet and those of his illustrious 
namesake. 



§ 774.] 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



161 



IV,— Poets mentioned by the 
therefore earlier 

757. 'B^^^fsr, the poet Sane/i7. 

758. fl(^^« ^, the poet 
5/6 Das. 

Garcin de Tassy (I, 474) mentions 
an author of this name who came 
from Jaipur, to whom we owe the 
Sib ChaJUpW, a work quoted by Ward 
in his Sistory of the Hindus (11,481). 
He was also author of a book the name 
of which Garoin de Tassy gives as 
PotM Idk ukat ras Jagat, which he 
confesses he does not understand. 

759. ^^ f%^ fli^^.alTTr, 
Prince SumSrd Sirjgfi. 

Also in Sun. 



post Sudan (No. 367), and 
than 1753 A,D. 

760. ^:T5l ^f^, the poet Samj. 

761. fR ^fV, the poet Har'i. 
The author of a commentary on the 

Bhikha. Bhukhan (No. 377), entitled 
Chamatkar ChandrikS, and of -a met- 
rical commentary on the Kabi-priyi- 
(No. 134) entitled Kabi-priyabharan. 
He also translated the Amara KO^a 
(? Bag. cf. Nos. 170, 567, 689) into 
the vernacular. 



762. 

Hit Ram. 



f%cT Xm '^, -the poet 



v.— Poets mentioned in the Rag-Sagarodbhab Rag-Kalpadrum 

of Krishnanand Byas Deb (No. 638), and therefore 

earlier than 1843 A.D. ' 



763. W^% ^j the poet 
Chhablle, of Bmj. 

764. snrarW ^TH, Jagnnath Das. 
He is possibly the same as one 

Jagannatli Kabi the elder, mentioned 
bySibSiggh. Cf. No. 601. 

765. ^T TT31 ^f^> the poet 
Jug RSj. 

Said to be the author of some 
tasteful poems. 

766. ■qft ^w, OABrfAe Oas, of 
BraJ. 

767. ^VH '^, Nam Deb. 
Poems by him are also included 

in the Sikh Granth (see Nos. 22, 169 ). 

768. ^fs X^ ^V, Bali Ram 
Das, of BraJ, 

Also Srigg, Possibly the same as 
a Bali Ram quoted by Garcin de 



Tassy (I, 105) from Mack. (II, 108) 
as author of the Chit Bilas, a treatise 
on the creation of the world, in which 
are described th^ objects and end of 
human existence, the formation of 
gross and ethereal bodies, and the 
means of acquiring salvation. 

769. , fPHT TT^T, Bish'n Das. 
Also the name of the author of a 
number of emblematic dohas. 

770. Hvr^^^T^ f%cr kijj xm, 

Bhag'wan Hit Ram Ray. 

771. 'PT t%fw ^ff%^, the poet 
Man Nidhi. 

772. »Tf*r gn«5 qif^, the poet 
Mani Kanth. 

773. ^Tfr ^H, Murari Das, 
of BraJ. 

774. Tf%^ ^nr, Rasik Das, of 

BraJ, 



' See, also many other names mentioned in the preface of the same work 
extracted out in No. 638. 



162 



THE MODEBN XITBBAET HI8T0BY OP HINDtJSTlN, 



E§ 775. 



775. THT XUSI, Ram R&y, the 
EathSSr. 



776. ^^51 ^«^, the poet 
Lachchhan Das. 

I have found a poem in the Braj 
dialect, and bearing his name, in 
Mithila. 



He was son of Raja KhSm Pal 
the EathaSr. 

777. <sl%*l«< ^RT '^^, Laohhu. 
man Saran Das. 

778. ^T ^1^ ^rf^, the poet 
Sagun Das. 

779. ^TT »T^fT ^, the 
poet Syam Uanohar. 

VI.— Poet mentioned in the Ras CJiandroday of Thakur Par'sad 
(No. 570), and tlierefore earlier than 1863 A,D. 

780. ^Tf%^ ^fk, the poet and bard Kalika, oi'Banaras. Alive in 1883. 
Also in Sun. 

VII.— Poets nnentioned in the Dig-bijai Bhukhan of Gokul Par'sad 
(No. 694), and therefore earlier than 1868 A.D. 

781. 'arsr ^f%, the poet Khan. I 783. Tl^ra ^ifk, the poet 

782. "g^5>?x: ^, the poet Nayak. 
Dhurandhar, Also Sriflg. 

Also Srrgg. 

VIII.— Poets mentioned intheSundari Tiiak of Harishchandr' 
(No, 581), and therefore earlier than 1869 A.D. 



784. '•flT^'M ^rfw, the poet 
Xllman. 

785. ^if^ KIW, Kabi Ram alias 
Ram Nath, the Eayasth. 

Sib Sii)gh gives two poets of 
this name. One he puts down as 
alive in 1883, aiid the other, as born 
in 184:1. Probably they are the same. 

786. 1^^ ^ ^t'BT ^, 
Tul'sl Sri Ojha Ji, of Jodh'pur (Mar'uiar) . , 

He is said to be an elegant erotic 
poet. 

787. ^^ 1^, DayaNidhI, 
a Brahman, of Pat'na, 

Possibly the same as a Daya 
NidhI Kabi mentioned by Sib Siijgh, 
also without date. Cf. No. 365. 

788. 1^? ^fTH, Najlb Khan 
alias the poet Rasiya, councillor of 
the.Maharaj of Patiyala: 

789. f W f'rf^ ^rf%^ the poet 
Nab NidhL 



790. ■^^ ^Sfk, the poet 
Nabln. 

An erotic poet. 

791. 1KW ^1%, the poet 
NarSs. 

It appears from a reference in one 
of his detached poems that he was 
the author of a treatise on lovers (see 
note to No. 87). 

792. ^K^ ^f%, the poet 
paras. 

793. T'^'ltsi ^ffsr, the poet 
Mah'raJ, ■ 

Also Srigg. 

794. f'Cf^ Tm ^, the poet 
Rikhi Nath. 

Also Srii|g. An erotic poet. 

795. ^'aX ^r1%, the poet 
Sekhar. 

An erotic poet. 

796. '^^HM ^, the poet 
and bard Hanuman, of Ban&ras. 



§ 811.] 



MISCElLANEOirs. 



163 



IX.— Poets mentioned in the Kabya Sangrah of Mahes Datt' 
(No. 696), and therefore earlier than 1875 A,D. 



797. 1%'TT Km, KripBt Ram, 
the Brahman, of Narainapur, district 
e8(/a. « 

He translated the whole BhSgavata 
Pura^a into simple language in ddhds 
and chSupSis. Cf . No. 328. 

He is probably the same as a Kripa 
Earn Eabi (date imknown) who was 
the anthor of a poem in the Champu 
style, entitled Madhab SulGohana, and 



as another Kripa Earn Kabi (date 
also unknown), author of an erotic 
poem in the dohd metre, entitled Hit 
Taragginl. 

798. 'ra^ ^T^, Nawal DSts, the 
Chhattri, of Gur GSw, district BdrllbagHI. 

He is the author of a work entitled 
Gyan Sarobar. His date is (certainly 
incorrectly) put by Sib Siggh at 
Sambat 1316 (A.D. 1269). 



X.— Miscellaneous poets whose dates I have been unable to fix. 

Collected from various sources, principally the 

Sib Singh Saroj. 



799. ^nK^ ^f^, the poet 
AmarJJ, of RdJ'putana. 

According, to Sib Siggh he is men- 
tioned by Tod in his Rajasthan, but 
I have been unable to find the place. 

800. ^rajT^f%l'*re, Kalyan 
Siggh Bliatt. 

801. ^^ ^^:^ ^T^i^, 
((an Oharan BaJ'peyi, of Bigah'pur, 
district Unao. 

Said to have been a skilled poet. 

802. ^^ ^^T^il^, the poet 
Kali Din. 

He translated poems in honour of 
Durga. 

803. fi^ ifhf^, Kunj GBpt, 
the Ganr Brahman, of Jaipur. 

An erotic writer. 

804. %^t7^ Km ^ifw, the 
poet KSs'war Ram. 

Author of a work entitled Bhtamar- 
git, or songs of a bee, which however, 
according to Garcin de Tassy (I, 
302), was written by Krish'n Das, 
No. 806. 

805. f^TT^ ^rfw, the poet 
Kripai. 

An erotic writer. 



806. fSR^P^ TT«, Krisli'n Das. 
Author of a commentary on the 

Bhalit Mala (see No. 51). See Garcin 
de Tassy, I, 302. Garcin de Tassy 
makes him also possibly the, author 
of a Bhramar-git (see No. 804), and of 
a religious treatise entitled PrSm 
Sattwa Nirap, 

807. 'TTsr g<!lidH ^, -the 
poet Khan Mul'tan. 

808. ^^ra TTT^^, Khusal 
Pathak, of Ray Bareli. 

He wrote on lovers (see note to 
No. 87). 

809. if^r -g^ gr(%, the poet 
Khab Chand, of Mar' war. 

He composed a poem in honour 
of Eaja Gantbhir Sahl, of 7dar. 

810. ^tf«r ^fk, the poet 
Khetal. 

He wrote on lovers (see note to 
No. 87). 

811. ir^T V': qrfw, the poet 

Gagga Dhar. 

He has written a commentary on 
the Sat Sai of Bihari (No. , 196) in 
the kundaliya and doha metres, 
named the Up'aat'aSiya, 

l2 



164 



THE MODEEN UTEEAET HISTOBY OF HI3SD08TIN. 



[§812. 



812. 151 f^^, GajSiijgh. 
The author of the Gaj Siggh Bilas, 

(Of., however, No. 190.) 

813. ^^ qif%, the poet Gldh. 
Some detached. clihappShs and 

dohds by him are extant. 

814. ■gJTR't ^f^, the poet 
Oumam, oiPat'na. 

He wrote a number of verses, 
which are in every one's mouth in 
Bihar. The first three lines are in 
Sanskrit, and thfe fourth of each is a 
Hindi proverb. Specimens have been 
published in the Indian Antiquary. 
An example is 

(Mandodari addresses Eava^a)^ 
(Scmskrit) Before Bama come armed 
here to fight with thee, do thou return 
his wife to him, for (Hindi proverb) 
•The' longer a blanket moisteneth 
(in the dew), the heavier it is.' 

815. •5^'T TTF Ww, the poet 
Guldm Ram. , 

His poems are said to be good. 

816. ■^^T^ ^if^, the poet 
Gulaml. 

His poems are said to be good. 

817. irt^Tf ^rfir, the poet 
Bosal, of Rdj'putana. » 

His occasional dohSs and those on 
morals are excellent. 

818. 'ft^^ rr^ ^ffw, the poet 
Gdpal Ray. 

He wrote some verses in praise of 
NarSndr' Lai Sah'i and '^dil Khan. 

819. "fy^^J^fvj-.GBpalSiogh, 
of Braj. 



He wrote the Tul'sl Sabdarth 
Par'kas. In it he describes the Aahta 
Chhap (see No. 35). 

820. iflf^'^ Xm, tte bard 
Gobind Ram, of RdJ'putana. 

He was author of a work entitled 
the HarawatI, which is a history of 
the Hara family (cf. Tod's Rdjdsthdn, 
II, 454 i Calc. ed. ii, 499). 

821. Wt *r?, Ghasi Bhatt. 

822. -g^ Mtf^, Chahr' Pan!- 
A MSthil poet (see J. A. S. B., 

vol. LIII, p. 91). 

823. "^d^'^^j Chatur'bhuj. 

A Maithil poet (see J. A; 8. B., 
vol. LIII, p. 87). 

824. "#1% ^, the poet 
ChohhS. 

Sib Si^gh says that his poems are 
clever (T?t«a^). 

825. WtIT ^rf%, the poet 
Chhattan. • 

826. sjTTT^ ^, the poet 
Jag'nes. 

827. ^fK^^ «f, Janar'dfln 
Bhatt. 

He wrote a treatise on medicine 
entitled Baidya Ratan, 

828. oj^TT^, Jayanand. ^ 

He was a MSthil poet, a £aran 
Kayasth by caste (see J. A. S. B., 
v61. LIII, p. 86). 

829. ^^«f XR^Wr^ ^t, Jugul 
Par'sad Chaube. 

He has written a good Dghabali. 

830. ^ fmp^ '?rf^, the poet 
Jai Krish'n, 

He was son of the poet Bhawanl 
Das. Cf.No.683. He wrote a treatise, 
on prosody entitled Chhand Sar. 

831. ^ f%f= mfs(, the 
Jai Siggh. 

An erotic writer. 



poet 



& 855.] 



MISCELLANBOUS. 



165 



832. «^^:^i^ ^f^, the poet 
Tah'kan, of the Pafijab. 

He has translated the episode of 
the Sacrifices of the Pandavas (PStf^dauti 
hS yajha.) from Sanskrit into the 
vernacular. 

833. 3^1>t ^IH ^, the poet 
Thahur Ham. 

A quietistic poet. 

834. ^r^j Dah, an agricultural 
poet (see Ghagh (No. 217) and cf. 
Bihar Peasant Life). 

835. ^T^i^ ^, ^^ P°®* 
Dhahan. 

836. ^^T t^ ^f^, the poet 
Daya DSb. 

Srii)g. 

837. ^W ^, the poet Dan. 
An erotic poet. 

838. f^TT ^^, the poet 
Dillp. 

839. %^ Tl^ ^, the poet 

840. t^Tfir^if^, the poet 
De6 Man'i. 

He -wrote a commentary in the 
vernacular to the first 16 adhyayas 
of GhSitfakya's RSjanlti (Bag. Cf, 
Nos. 674 and 919). 

841. ^^ ^^if^, the poet Debl. 
Aji erotic poet. Probably the 

same as one of the many other poets 
whose- names commence with Debl. 

842. %^ ^^* ^f^> the poet 
Debl Datt'. 

A writer of quietistic and occasion- 
el pieces. 

843. %^ t%T ^> tJie poet 
Debl Siggh. 

Srigg. 

844. f%^^^^-f^, the poet 
Ow// /Vanrf. 

845. 'rai'T^, Najaml. 



I know nothing about this' poet, 
except one short poem in praise of 
Sib, bearing his name, in the Bais'wari 
dialect, which I collected orally in 
Mithila. 

846. sp^ Xm ^Sf^,- the poet 
Nand Ram, 

A quietistic poet. 

847. ir»^TTfsr, Nandlpatl. 

A Mathil poet. See J. A. S. B., 
vol. LIII, p. 79. 

848. T^ ^, the poet Mabl. 
Srii)g. The author of an excellent 

Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87). 

849. T^^ f^sflT ^, the 
poet Nawal KishSr. 

No particulars. He is possibly 
the same as one of the other poets 
whose name commences with Nawal, 
and as a poet mentioned by Sib Siggb, 
without date, as Nauuai Kabi. 

850. srm, Nath. 

Sriijg. Tilany poets, such as Kaal 
Nath (No. 139), Uday Nath (No. 334), 
Sib Nath (No. 632), &c., often call 
themselves, as nom de guerre, simply 
Nath, which has given, rise to great 
confusion. Cf. Nos. 68, 147, 163, 
440, 633. 

851. ^^#1" ^r|^, the poet Nehl. 

852. IT ^fV, the poet Nain. 

853. xnait ^ifSr, the poet 
PakhanS. 

854. tr^T^i^r ^«^ ^q ^, 

the poet Par'dhan Kesab Ray, 

He wrote a treatise on veterinary 
surgery entitled Salihotr'' (Rag). He 
is possibly the same as a Par'dhan Kabi 
mentioned by Sib Siggh, without date 
or particulars. 

855. TKIJTW, Par'mall. 

He was son of Sagkar, and was 
author of a Jran work entitled Sripal 
Charitr'. See Garcin deTassy, I, 401. 
Cf . id. I, 530. 

l3 



166 



THE MODEBN LITEEAEY H18T0BY OF HINDtJSTlN. 



t§ 856. 



856. S^Tf ^fV, the poet Puran, 

857. 5«af^ Wfw, the poet 
Puahkar, , 

The author of a wort on composi- 
tion (^fr^) entitled Ras-mtan. 

858. T^ ^^ m^f Paran 
Chand Jath, 

He wrote a work entitled the Ram- 
rahasya ftamSyan. 

859. ^ ^«^ TtWj /''^Sffi 
KS8war Das, 

Author of a translation into the 
vernacular of the 12th book of the 
Bhagauata Puraija. The India Office 
Library is said by Garcin de Tassy 
(I, 404) to possess a copy. 

860. ^KT ^ift, the poet 
PhSran. 

861. ^■^rss'i ^r|%, the poet 
Baft'sJ, 

Possibly the same as a Bak'su 
mentioned in the preface to Eag. 

862. ^^W ^f^* 'le poet 
Baj'taog. 

863. «R^ ^ifV, the' poet 
Badan. 

864. 5P^ -qx: fimx. Banal 
Dhar Misar, of Sandila. 

A quietistic poet. 

865. ■^^ ^^T^> Bar'g Ray. 
Author of a work entitled Gopa- 

chalahatha, or History of Givaliyar. 
See Garcin de Tassy, I, 618. 

866. ^Tf ^^ ^, the poet 
Baba Bhatt. 

867. f^%^ qrf^, the poet 
Biduhh. 

A poet who dealt with the sports 
of Krisna. 

868. faf^T ^W qif%, the poet 
BindaDatt'. 

An erotic poet. 

869. fm^K ^f^, the poet 
Biaambhar or Biawambar. 

An erotic poet. 



870. f^%1K '«fsr, the poet 
Biaeaar. 

871. 3* %^ ^f^, the poet 
Buddh Sen, 

872. 3^ f«T, Budh Sioghj the 
A'an/a67. 

Author of an elegant translation 
into the^ vernacular of the story of 
Madhauanala or MadhOnal. (Cf. Nos. 
216, 629.) 

873. l^T^ ^J^f'Bulahl Daa. 
A prolific writer of ghvttOs or 

songs peculiar to the month of ChSt 
in the Bhoj'puri dialect. See Some 
Bhoj'puri Folk-songs, J. K. A. S., 
vol. xviii. 

874. tsff m^^ WE, BSnl 
Madhab Bhatt. 

875. ^T 'flfk, the poet Bain. 

876. ^\^ KTf ^fsf, the poet 
BddM Ram. 

877. am ^ftfr ^f^, the poet 

Braj lUdhan. 
An erotic poet. 

878. ^«W^f%, the poet Bra/gs, 
of Bundsl'khat}d. 

879. f%^ ^ifk, the poet Brind. 

880. «TTI^T^ ^TW f^^*^, 
Bhag'wan Das, Nirafijanr. 

He translated the Bhartrihari Cataka 
into the vernacular under the , name 
of Bhrityahari Sat. 

881. ^^-^3 BhaKjan. 

A MSthil poet. See J. A. S. B., 
vol. LIII, p. 90." 

882. T^, Bhaddar, an agri- 
cultural poet. See Ghagh (No. 217) 
and cf . Bihar Peasant Life. 

He was by tradition a noted astro- 
loger, and is said to have belonged to 
the Shahabad district. Many folk, 
tales are current concerning him, 

883. Kt^T TW, Bhola Nath, a 
Brahman, of KanaUJ. 



906.] 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



167 



He .wrote a metrical version of 
the Baital PacMsl (Bag.). 

884. TW^ ^^, the poet 
Maggad. 

885. Tfi^T TW ^fk, the poet 
Man'sdL Ram. 

Srii)g. A writer on lovers (see note 
to No. 87). He is possibly the same as 
a lUan'sa Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh 
as a great master of alliteration. 

886. T^ Xm ^if%, the poet 
Manl Ray. 

An erotic poet. 

887. 'is'jo^f^, thepoet Monj^a. 
An erotic poet; 

888. T'TtfX ^T^ fiKW-Tt, 
Mandhar Das, Nirahjan]. 

The author of a Vedantic work 
entitled Gyan-chumn Bachaniha. 

889. »T=f i»n^ ^f^, the poet 
Mah'tab. 

The author of an admired Nahh'. 
sikh (see note to No. 87). 

890. ilf^Mfd, Dahipat'i. 

A Mathil poet. See J. A. S. B., 
vol. LIII, p. 84. 

891. »TTf%^ ^TO ^rf^, the 
poet Manik Das, of Mathura, 

The author of a work entitled 
Manik-badh, treating of Xrisna's 
sports. 

892. »ftT^ ^i1%, the poet 
Mlran. 

Srigg. The author of an admired 
Nakh'sikh (see note to No. 87). 

893. ^ ^'^ ^> *^^ P°^* 
Muni Lai, 

894. ^^Tf^'?, Musahib, Eaja 
of Bijaur. 

He wrote commentaries on the 
Binay Pattrika (see No. 128) and on the 
Raa Raj (see No. 146). 

895. ^[^, Mun, the Asotbar, a 
Brahman, of Ghazlpur. 



The author of many works. 
Amongst them the Ram Raban ka 
j'uddh may be mentioned. 

896. 'Cf ^HTT, Raghu Ram, the 
Guj'rati, of Ah'madabad. 

The author of a play entitled 
Madhab Bilas (PEag. Cf. No. 629). 

897. T^^I^r^if^, the poet 
Raghu Lai. 

An erotic poet. 

898. X^W ^fk, the poet 
Rajjab. 

Srii)g; An esteemed author of dohds. 

899. '^T Tm ^, the poet 
Ratan Pal. 

The author of various doh3s on 
morals. 

900. THTtrfw, the poet Rama- 
path 

? Sririg. A MSthil poet. See J. A. 
S. B.-, vol. LIII, p. 83. 

901. ^« H« TW, Ras Pufij 
Das, the Dadu Fanthi. 

The author of two good works on 
prosody, entitled Prastar Prabhakar 
and Brittya BinBd. 

902. KTTT "g^sT, Ram Chamn, 
a Brahman of GanSs'pur, district 
Barabagkl. 

The author of a Sanskrit work 
entitled Kayastha-kula Bhaskara, and 
of a vernacular work entitled Kayasth. 
dhar'm Da/ pan. 

903. TUTTfl'^f^, the poet 
Ram Datt'. 

904. xm K^ ^ffSr, the poet 
Ram Daya. 

The author of a work entitled 
Rag Mala (Eag.). Cf. No. 400. 

905. Xm %^ f^. Ram Deb 

Siggh, a Chhattri of the Solar race, of 
Kharfdasa. 

906. ^TIT Tra P^MX, Ram 
Nath Misar, of Azam'gafh. 

1.4 



168 



THE MODERN LITERAET HISTOET OP HINDffSTlN. 



[§ 907. 



907. ^TH ^n^TH, Ram Bakhsh 
alias Ra.m Kabi. 

He attended the conrt of the 
Eana of Sir'maur. He is the author 
of a treatise on vernacular composi- 
tion (mfT^)and of a 'commentary 
to the Sat Sal of Bihari Lai (No. 196). 

908. ^T ^"ra ^fsr, the poet 
Ram Lai. 

909. X'nT%i^rf5r, the poet 

Ram Sehh, a Brahman. 

The author of a play entitled Nritya 
Raghab Milan. 

910. KTH ^■SRi ^fk, the poet 
Ram Sebah, 

The author of a work entitled 
Dhyan Chintamani. 

911. X"RT ^r^, Rama Kant. 
I have collected songs in the Braj 

dialect in Mithila, purporting^ to be 
by this poet. 

912. X\^ '^^ ^fk, the poet 
Ray Chand, of Nagar, in Guj'rat. . 

According to Sib Siggh he attends 
the dar'bar of Baja Dal Chand, Jagat 
Seth in Murshidabad, and is the author 
of two displays of learning, entitled 
(1) GH'gdbindadarshan (a translation of 
the Gita Gouinda) and (2) Lilauatl 
(Eag.). There was a Eaja Dal Chand 

of Murshidabad who was great- 
grandfather of Eaja ^iua Prasad (No. 
699, q.v.), who may possibly be the 

person referred to by Sib Siggh. 

913. S^% wfV, the poet 
Ray Jd. 

An erotic poet. Possibly the same 
as a Ray Kabi mentioned by Sib Siggh, 
also as an erotic poet. 

914. ^fHT ^r(%, the poet 
Lachhuman. 

He wrote a Salihotr', or treatise on 
veterinary surgery. 



915. <sl%*1'< ftT« Lachhuman 
Sirigh. 

An erotic poet., 

916. ^^ ^rf^, the poet 
Laohhml. 

Sib says he is mentioned by Saran (?) 

917. ^rfer xm ^fk, the poet 

Lain Ram. 

918. <sll3j»r ^ffw, the poet 
Lajab. 

919. Wra ^1^, the poet Lai. 
He translated Chanakya's Rajaniti 

(Eag.) into the vernacular. Cf. 
Nos. 525, 674, and 840.' 

920. ^nra ^«^ Wl%, the poet 
Lai Chand. 

The author of emblematic hahittcts 
and kundaliySs, 

921. «rNf ^rfsr ^fSr, the poet 

Loh l/lan'i. 

Sib Siggh says that he is mention- 
ed by Saran (?) 

922. ^% ^ff^, the poet and 
bard LdnS, of Bundel'khand. 

An erotic poet. ~ 

923. q^.f*!, Waz'han. 

A quietistio Vedantic author of 
dohds. 

924. TfK, Wahab. 

The author of a well-known Bara 
Masa, or song descriptive of the 12 
months. 

925. gif^^ ^if%, the poet 
Wahid. 

An erotic poet, 

926. V% ^ f^l^, Eaja Satru 
Jit Sii/gh, the Bundela of Datlya, in 
BundSl'lihand. 

< The author of a treatise on rhe- 
toric, &o., under cover of a commen- 
tary to the Ras Raj (No. 146). 

927. 9^^ ^rr^ ^, the poet 
Sabal Syam. 



§ 947.] 



MISCEILANEOUS. 



169 



928. fl!^ ^TH ft^T, Sambhu 
Nuth Misar, of Muradabad, district 
Undo. 

929. «^ TKTflT? ^rfir, the 
poet Sambhu Par'sad. 

An erotic poet. 

930. fl^ TTW, Saras Ram. 

A MSthil poet, who attended the 
court of a King Sundar. See J. A. S. 
B., vol. LIII, p. 87. Possibly this 
King was the Raja Sundar Jhakur of 
TJr'hut, who came to the throne 1641 
A.D. anddiedl666A.D. 

931. ^(ftrTni ^^, the poet 
Sasi Nath. 

Srigg. An erotic poet. 

932. t^^ xtm. Sib Raj of 

Jaipur. 

? Srii)g. A writer of whom Garcin 
de Tassy (I, 476) speaks as follows : — 
" We owe to him a work entitled 
Ratan-mala, quoted by Ward in his 
History of the Sind/us, II, 481. I do 
not know if it is the same work which 
Mr. Wilson has made use of for his 
dictionary. This last is a list of the 
names of vegetable and mineral drags 
in Sanskrit and Hindi. We owe to the 
same author the Sib-Sagar, a work also 
cited by Ward." The author is also 
~ mentioned in the Sib Siggh SaroJ, 

933. ^^■R ^rf^, the poet 
Sujan. , 

An erotic poet. 

934. ^r^X ^f%, the poet 
and bard Sundar, of As'nl, district 
Fat ill 'pur. 

The author of a work entitled Raa^ 
Par'bodh. 

935. ^^^TT'T^f^, the p6et 
Sul'tan. 

An erotic poet. 



936. «^« ^1%, the poet Sobli. 
An erotic poet; 

937. vim srra ^ifk, the poet 
Ssbh Nath. 

938. T^Jpfl ^rl%, the poet, 
Hanumant. 

He attended the court of Eaja 
Bhanu Par'tap Siggh. \ 

939. "?T: "q^^ ^TH ^, the 
poet Har Charan Das. 

The author of a good work on 
vernacular composition (^ftto) en- 
titled Brihat Kabi-ballabh. 

940. fT 5?t^r5f qff^, the 
poet Har Jiban. 

941. fK ^srra ^f^, the poet 
Har Dayal. 

An erotic poet. 

942. TJX 'g^ ^f%, the poet 
Hari Chand, of Bar'sana, in BraJ. 

The author of a prosody entitled 
Chhand Swarupinl. 

943. "?1T%^ qtf?, the poet 
Hari DSb, a Baniya, of BrindUban, in 
Braj. 

The author of a prosody entitled 
Chhand Paydnidhi. 

944. 'fft ^WH ^!fkt the poet 
Hari Ballabh. 

A quietistic poet. 

945. ffx: HT5 ^fk, the poet 
Hari Bhand. 

The author of a treatise on vernac- 
ular composition (^Tf^w) entitled 
Narind Bhuhhan. 

946. "ffc ^T^ ^, the poet 
Hari Ul. 

Srigg. Possibly the same as 
another Hari Lai Kabi, also mentioned 
by Sib Siggh -vrithout date, as an 
erotia poet. 

947. fVcT^T^^fir, the poet 
Hit Nand. 



170 



THB UODSBN LITBBABT HI8I0BT OF HIKDOsTiN. 



[§ 948. 



Possibly the same as a Hit ^nand 
mentioned in the preface to Hag. 

948. ftKT ^m ^, the poet 
Him Lai. 

An erotic poet. ^ 

949. '^^« TPT ^, the poet 
Hulas Ham. 

The author of a treatise on veter- 
inary surgery entitled Salihdtr' (Bag). 
Possibly the same as a; Hulis Kabi 
mentioned by Sib Sii)gh as an erotic 
poet. 



950. %iT ^tfk, the poet Him. 
Srii)g. An erotic poet. 

951. %JT Jft^rm ^ff^, the 
poet Hem Gdpai. 

The author of an emblematic verse, 
which is all that is known to have 
survived of his work. 

952. %H sn^ ^rf^, the poet 
HSm Nath. 

He attended the court of KalySn 
Siggh, of Keh'rl 



INDICES. 



X Page. 

Index I, Names of Persons 1—20 

Index II, Names of Works .' . 21—30 

Index III, Names of Places . - 31—35 



N.B. — The figv/res refer to sections of the work. 



INDEX. 



INDEX No. I. 

— ♦ — 

NAMES OP PERSONS. 



•Abdu'l Jalil, 179, 209. 

'Abdu'r Ratiim Khan'khana, 108, 

125, 756. 
'Abdu'r BaJb-imaa, 183. 
Abhay Ram, 64, 638. 
Abhay Siggb, 370, 371. 
Abhimanya, 229, 571. 
Abu'l Faiz, 110. 
Abu'l Pazl, 37, 110, 111, 664. 
AcLal Siggh, Bras, 364, 365. 
Achchhar Ananya, 277. 
Achhe Lai, 667. 
'Adil, 381. 
'Idil Khan, 818. 
Agr' Das, 36, 44, 61, 638. 
Ab'mad, 224. 

Ajabes (the elder), 24, 630, 581. 
Ajabes (the younger), 630, 581. 
Xjam, 648, 
Ajaya Fala, 196. 
Ajit Siggh, of MarVar, 196, 370. 
Ajit Siggh (No. 2), 647. 
A jit Siggh (No. 3), 731. 
Ajodhya Par'sad, 17. 
Ajodhya Par'sad Baj'peyi, 674, 

693. 
Ajodhya Par'sad Sukal, 622. 
Akabbar Ray {nom de guerre of 

Ak'bar), 104. 
Ak'bar, 17, 37,. 60, 104—110, 112— 

115, 118— 120, .123, 126, 134, 136, 

137, 629, 564, 671. 
Ak'bar II, chap. IX, introd. 
•Alam (Poet), 181, 671, 681. 
•Alam (Prince), 330. 
Alau'd-din Khilji, 2, 8, 31, 37«, 

699. 



Alau'd-din Ghori, 3. 

llha, 6, 7. 

'All Ak'bar Ehan Mul;Lammadi, 

349—351. 
Aliman, 681, 784. 
Amar Das (No. 1), 22. 
AmarDas(No. 2), 281. 
AmarDatt', 699. 
Amar Ji, 799. 

Amar Siggh, of Mewar, 6, 191. 
Amar 8ir)gh, of Mar' war, 191-^ 

193. 
Amba Par'sad, 512. 
Ambar, 651. 

Ambika Datt' Byas. 704, 706. 
Ambika Par'sad, 738. 
Ambuj, 666. 
Am'res, 90, 571. 
Amrit, 121. 

.Snand Ghan, 347, 638. 
Jinand KabiP =5naadGhan, 347. 
fnand Ram, 128. 
Anand Siggh alias Dur'ga Siggh, 

711. 
Anant, 250, 6,81. 
Anantanaod, 250. 
Ananya, 418. 
Ananya Das, 6. 
Anath Das, 287. 
Ai)gad, 22. 

Aggan Lai alias Rasul, 609. 
Anis, 687. 
Anonymous, 660. 
Anunran, 673. 
Aniip Das, 436. 
Anup Giri, 467. 
An'war Khan, 196, 397. 



u 



INDEX OF PEHSONB. 



Appa Saheb alias Eaghu Nath 

£aw, £06. 
Araru, 333. 

Ar'jun Sii)gh (No. 1), 160. 
Ar'jun Siggh (No. 2), 696. 
Jaafu'd-daSla, 484. 
Isaf Khan, 299. 
Ashraf Jahan'gir, 31. 
Ashta Chhap, 35—37, 39—43, 

819. 
Asiph Ehan, 299. 
Askand G^iri, 378, 527. 
As'karan Das, 71. 
Asu Tokh, 638. 
Xtma Sam, 128. 
Aiidh, 674, 693. 
Aufrecht, 8, 18. 
Axirai)g'zeb, chap. IX, in trod., 

159, 160, 169, 175, 176-181, 

185—187,202. 
Awadh Bakas (Bakhsh), 685. 
Awadhes (No. 1), 620. 
Awadhes (No. 2), 543. 
A'zam, 648. 
A'zam Shah, 196, 198. 
Babu Bhatt, 866. 
Badal, 31. 
Badan, 863. 
Badan Sii)gh, 367, 368. 
Badaoni, 106, 112. 
Bade Bay, 612. 

Bad'ri Narayan ChaSdh'ri, 706. 
Bahadur, of Guj'rat, 31». 
Bahadur Shah, chap. IX, iutrod., 

181, 183, 330, 386. 
Etaj'nath, 138. 
BSju Baware, 638. 
Bian, 876. 

Bmram Xhan, 108, 112. 
Bmtal, 515. 
Bajes, 467.- 
Bajida, 872. 
Baj'ragg, 862. 
Bakh'na Ji, 163. 
Bakb'tawar, 634. 
Bak'si, 861. 



Bakstt, 638, 861. 

Bal Deb (the elder), 263, 671, 

581. 
Bal Deb, of Baghel'khand, 359. 
Bal Deb, of Char'khari (No. 1), 

618. 
Bal Deb, of Char'khari (No. 2), 

643. 
Bal Deb Abasthi, 716. 
Bal Deb Das, 684. 
Bal Deb Siggh, 699, 602. 
Bal Erish'n P = Bal Krish'n Tri- 

pathi, 138. 
Bal Krish'n, 693, 594. 
Bal Zrish'n Bhatt, 706. 
Bal Krish'n Tripathi, 138, 139. 
Balaji Vishwanath, chap. IX, 

iutrod. 
Balam Das, 488. 
Bal'ban Sii|gh, 663. 
Bal'bhadr', of Par'na, 511. 
Baleswar Far'sad, 706. 
Ball, 755. 
Balibhadr', 23. 
Balibhadr' Sauadhya Misar, 135, 

138, 139, 149, 571, 629, 660. 
Bali Jii, 289. 
BaliEam, 571, 768. 
Bali Earn Das, 638, 768. 
Ballabh ? = Ballabh Easik, 339, 

671. 
Ballabh Das, 638. 
Ballabh Easik, .239. 
Ballabhachar'j, chap. IX, introd., 

31,34—37,39,44.638. 
Bandan Babu, 213. 
Bandan Pathak, 576. 
Ban'mali Das, 286. 
Bans Gopal, 549. 
Bans Eup, 586. 
Bans! Dhar, 574, 
Bansi Dhar Baj'peyi, 617. 
Bansi Dha^ Bhatt, 612. 
Bansi Dhar Misar, 864. 
Bansi Dhar Sri Mali, 377, 636, 636. 
Ban'wari Das, 163. 



INDEX or PEBSONS, 



Ul 



BanVari Lai, 191, 192. 

Barak, 101. 

Baran, 168. 

Bar'g Eay, 866. 

Bar'hana (Sayyad), 330. 

Earth, 8. 

Baribaijd Si^gh, 659. 

Bal'want Siijgh, 659n. 

Beames, editor of portion of Pri- 

thwi Eaj Kay'sa, 6. 
Bechu, 399. 
Bedat|g Kay, 174. 
Begam Saheb, 151. 
Beni (the elder), 247, 671, 581. 
Beni (the younger), 484, 571, 581. 
Beni Das, 581, 671. 
Beni Madhab Bhatt, 874 
Beni Madhab Das, 128, 130. 
Beni Par'bin Baj'peji, 681, 608. 
Beni Par'gat, 659. 
Bhaddar, 217, 882. 
Bhago Das, 14. 

BhagVan Das (No. 1), 29, 638. 
Bhag'wan Das (No. 2), 106, 109. 
Bhag'wan Das, Niranjani, 880. 
Bhag'wan Hit Earn Eay, 770. 
Bhag'wan Kabi ? :^ Bhag'want 

Eay, the Ehlcbi, 333. 
Bhag'want Eay, the Khichi, 333— 

338, 341—343, 571, 581, 644. 
Bhag'wat Eamit, 26, 59, 60, 61. 
Bhag'wati Das, 245. 
Bhan Das, 609. 
Bhanjan (No. 1), 468, 671. 
Bhanjan (No. 2), 881. 
Bhanu Nath Jha, 641, 706. 
Bhanu Par'tap Siggh, 938. 
Bhao Chand, 87. 
Bharat, 128. 
Bharat Chandra, chap. X, introd., 

note. 
Bharatendu, 581. 
Bhar'mi, 273, 571. 
Bhar'thari, 638. 
BhSan (No. 1), 383. 
Bhaan (No. 2), 611, 720. 



Bhaw Siggh, 146- 

Bhawan alias Bhawani Far'sad 

Pathai, 618. 
Bhawanand, 11. 
Bhawani Das, 683, 830. 
Bhawani Par'sad Pathak alias 

Bhawan, 618. 
Bhawani Siggh, the Khichi, 343. 
Bhawani Siggh, Datiya, 612. 
Bhikham P = Bhikham Das, 240. 
Bhikham Das, 240. 
Bhikhari Das, 149 Add., 344. 
Bhikhari Jha, 360. 
Bhim, 571. 
Bhim Siggh, 71. 
Bhim 'si, 31. 
Bhoj (the elder), 653. 
Bhoj Misar, 331. 
Bhola Nath, 629, 883. 
Bhola Siggh, 544. 
Bholan Jha alias Man'bddh Jha, 

360. 
Bhomala.Makarand Shah, 143. 
Bhrigg, 274. 

Brahm Kabi = Bir'bal, 106, 681. 
Brahm Eao, 37. 
Brahma,.4. 
Bhu Deo, 332. 
Bhu Dhar (No. 1), 256, 571. 
Bhu Dhar (No. 2), 336, 571. 
Btukhan Tripathi, 143, 145, 571, 

638. 
Bhumi Deb, 688. 
Bhup Narayan, 645. 
Bhupal Siggh, 623. ' , 

Bhupati alias Gur Datt' Siggh, 

332, 629. 
Bhu Sur, 689. 
Bidukh, 867. 
Bidya Das, 69. 
Bidya Dhar Bhatt, 612. 
Bidya Nath, 292. 

Bidyapati fliakur, 17—19, 638, 708. 
Bihari, 298. 

Bihari, of Bundel'khand, 413. 
Bihari Das, of Braj, 226, 638. 



IV 



INDEX OT FEBS0N3. 



Bihari Lai alias Bhoj Kabi, of 

Char'khari, 519. 
Bihari Lai Chaabe (Professor), 128, 

740. 
Bihari Lai Chaabe, of Braj,, chap. 

Yll, introd., 128, 196, 213— 

215, 326, 327, 359, 397, 409, 421, 

559, 561, 562, 571, 629, 638, 811, 

907. 
Bihari Lai Tripathi, 143, 523. 
BiJEU Bahadur alias Bikram Sahi, 

q.v., 514. 
Bijai Siggh, 371. 
BijS Siggh, Datiya, 512. 
Bijayabhinandan, 201. 
Bikram, see Bikram Sahi. 
Bikram Sahi or Bikram Shah, of 

Char'khari, alias Bijai Bahadur, 

chap. X;, introd., 149, 196, 359», 

514—618, 638. 
Bikram Shah, of Char'khari, see 

Bikram Sahi. 
Bikram Shah, of Dewaranagar, 

369. 
Binda Datt', 868. 
Bipul Bitthal, 59, 62. 
Bir Baj'peyi, 516. 
Bir Bhan, 168. 
Bir Bhan Sii)gh, 24. 
Bir Chandr', 67. 
Bir'bal, 37«, 106, 119, 134. 
Bir'bal,the Kayasth of Dilli, 395. 
Bir'bar = Bir'bal, 106. 
Bir'bar, the Kayasth of Dilli, 395. 
Bisal Deb, the ChaShan, 6, 8. 
Bisambhar or Biswambar, 869. 
Bisesar, 870. 
Bish'n Das, 638, 769. 
Biswambar or Bisambhar, 869. 
Biswa Nath (No. 1), 102. 
Biswanath (No. 2), 721. 
Biswa Nath Atai, 359, 411. 
Biswanath Siggh, of Bandho,- 

chap. X, introd., 628—531, 638, 

706. 
Bitthal Das Chaube, 52. 



Bitthal Kabi, 36. 

Bitthal Nath, 34, 35, 37, 40-43. 

Bodh, 600. 

Bodha, 449, 571, 681. 

Bodhi Eam, 876. 

Brahm, 106, 571. 

Brahman Nath, 443, 447. 

Braj alias Gokul Far'sad, 694. 

Braj.Basi Das, 369, 706. 

Braj Chand, 382. 

Braj Das (the elder), .315. 

Braj Jiban Das (? 315), 638. 

Braj Lai, 260. 

Braj Mohan,' 877. 

Braj Nath, 400. 

Braj Nidhi, 638. 

Braj Pati, 232. 

Braj Eaj, 393. 

BrajadMs (? 878), 638. 

Brajanatha Bandhopadhyaya, 

translator of Hammir Easa, 8. 
Brajes,' 878. 
Brind, 878. 
Brindaban, 722. 
Briudaban Das, 227. 
Brindaban Jiban, 638. 
Britti Sii)gh, 159 Add. 
Buddh Eaw, 330, 331, 334. 
Buddh Sen, 871. 
Buddhi Chand, 37. 
Budh Earn, 290. 
Budh Siggh, 872. , 
Bulaki Das, 873. 
Bur (Eaja), 622. 
Bur'han, 31. 
Byas Ji, 242. 

Byas Earn Shagkar Sharma, 581. 
Byas Swami — Jlari Earn Sukal, 

54, m, 638. 
^Slivafaana, 372. 
^arggadhara, 8. 

ChSn Bay = ChSn Siggh, 571. 
ChEn Siggh alias Har Charan, 

671, 627. 
ChStanya, 17, 69, 63, 
Chakr' Pani, 822. 



IN DBS or PBBSONS, 



Champati Eay, 202, 372. 
Chanakya, 674, 629, 840, 9 J 9. 
Chand Bar'dai, 6—8, 191, 581, 638. 
Chand Kabi P = Ckand Sakhi, 93, 

581. 
Chand SatM, 93, 581, 638. 
Cha,ndan, 196. 

Chandan Ray, 374, 375, 610. 
Chandela, 454. 
Chandi Das, 17. 
Chandi Datt', 603. 
Chandr' alias Chand Bar'dai, 6 — 8, 

191, 581, 638. 
Chandr', wrote comm. on Bihari 

Sat Sal, 196. 
'Chandr' (the younger), 213, 214. 
Chandr' Bhan, the ChaShan, 8. 
Chandr' Dhar Bhatt, 512. 
Chandr' Jha, 702. 
Charan Das, 23, 638. 
Chatur Bihari, 65, 638. 
Chatur Kabi ? = Chatur Bihari, 65. 
Chatur Siggh, 257. 
Chatur'bhuj ? = Chatur'bhuj Das, 

40, 571. 
Chatur'bhuj, of Mithila, 823. 
Chatur'bhuj Das, 35, 40, 638. 
Chatur'bhuj Misar, 40, 629. 
Chet Siggh, 196, 561—564. 
Chetan Chandr', 72. 
Chhabile, 763. 
Chhail, 312. 
Chhattan, 825. 
Chhattr', 75, 564, 571. 
Chhattr' Pati P = Chhattr'. 
Chhattr' Sal, chap. X, introd., 145, 

149, 152, 155, 167, 197, 198, 201, 

203, 205, 372, 503. 
Chhem ? = Kbem, 87, 103, 311. 
Chhem Karan P = Chhem, .Sll. 
Chhem Earan (of DhanSSli), 373. 
dhhedi Ram, 672. 
Chhit Swami, 35, \l, 638. 
Chhit Kabi ? = Chhit Swami, 41. 
Chhitipal, a name of Gur Datt' 

Siggh, 332, 681. 



Chbotu Ram Tiwari, 31,, 706, 706^ 

739. 
Chintamanl, Tripathi, chap.' VII, 

introd., chap. X, introd., 143— 

146, 148, 359, 571. 
Chir Ju (P 607), quoted in Rag, 638. 
Chiranjib, 664, 607. 
Chokhe, 824. 
Choli, 113. 
Christian, John, 703. 
Churamanl, 647. 
Civa Dasa, 326, 366. 
^iva Prasad, 699m. 
^iva Siijiha, 17. 
9ri Harsa, 349. 
Dadn, 163. 
Dak, 217, 834. 
Dal Cha,nd, 699, 9 J 3. 
Dal Chand Jagat Setb, 912. 
Dal Siggh, 407. 
Dal Thambhan Siggh Gaar Saw- 

Sya, 715.' 
Dal'pati Ray, 377, iB35, 636. 
Damodar Das, 84, 638. 
Damodar Kabi P = Damodar Das, 

84. 
Damodar Shastri, 706. 
Dan, 837. 

DaraShukoh, 151,202. 
Dar'san Siggh, 699. 
Das Braj Basi = Braj Basi Das, 

369. 
Das, 369, 571, 581. 
Datt', 571. 
Daii Dada, 616. 
Daalat, 97. 
Daaiat Khan, 60. 
Daya Deb, 571, 836. 
Daya Kishun, 613. 
Daya Nath Dube, 668, 
Daya Nidhi (No. 1), 365, 581. 
Daya Nidhi (No. 2), 681, 787. 
Daya Ram ? = Daya Ram Tri. 

pathi, 387. 
Daya Ram Tripathi, 387. 
Daya Ram (Raja), 631. 



M 



VI 



INDEX OF PEESONS. 



,.Daya Sakhi, 638. 
Dayal, 611, 720. 
Deb alias Kashth Jihwa Swami, 

669, 571, 581. 
Deb = Deb Datf , 140, 706. 
Deb 'llain, 638. 
Deb Chand, 37. 
Deb Datf (No. 1), 140, 706. 
Deb Datf (No. 2), 2§r. 
Deb Datf P = Eabi Datf, 475. 
Deb Datf (No. 3), 507, 508. ^ 
Deb Kabi = Deb Datf, 140. 
JDeb Mani, 840. 
DebNath, 839.. 
Deb :?al, 31. 

Deb Eaj = Deb Datf, 140. 
Deb Siggb, 17. 
Deba, 36, 47. 
Deban, 571. 
Debi (No. 1), 306. 
, Debi (No. 2), 841. 
Debi Das (No. 1), 212. 
Debi Das (No. 2), 323, 487. 
Debi Datf, 842. 
Debi Dayal Tripatbi, 705. 
Debi Din, 730. 
Debi Bam, 307. 
Debi Siggh, 5J1, 843. 
Deoki Nandan (Babu), 578, 579. 
Deoki Nandan Sukal, 571, 581, 

630—632. 
Deoki Nandan Tiwarl, 706. 
Deva Sirfiba, 17. 
' phakan, 835. 
Dhan Siggb, 422. 
Dhana Bhagat, 22. 
Dbandhal, 699. 
Dbanes, 571. 

Dhani Earn, 134, 577, 578. ' 
Dhar'm, 571. 
Dh^kal Siggh, 591. 
Dbir, 461, 671. 
Dhir Siiigh, 17. 
Dhiraj, ? 136, 638. 
Dlairaj Narind = Indar'jit Siggh, 
136, 



Dhira Siifaha, 17. " 

DhSdhe Das, 638, 766. 

Dhrub Das, 58, 638. 

Dhurandhar, 571, 783. 

Dig-bijS Siggh, 694, 

Dila Earn, 750. 

Dil'dar, 96. 

Dilh, 33. 

Dilip?838. 

Din Dayal Giri, 582. 

DinNath, 552. 

Dina Nath Adhwarya, 658. 

Dines, 671, 633. . , . 

Dulah Tribedi, 169, 368, 359, 571. 

Dulam Das, 323. 

Dulha Earn, 334. 

Dur'ga, 646. 

Dur'ga Siggh alias Anand Siggh, 

711. 
Dwaiikes, 34. 
Dwij, 581, 683. 
Dwij Chandra, 314. 
Dwij alias Manna Lai, 581, 583, 

599. 
Dwij Deb alias Man Siggh, 681, 

683, 599. 
Dwij Nand, 844. 
Fahim, 111. 

FSzi = Abu,'l FSz, 110, 111. 
Farid (Shekh), 23. ' 
Farzada Quli, 629. 
Fatah Chand (Jagat Seth), 699. 
Faf h Sahi, 146, 155, 
Faturi Lai, 701. , 
Faail 'Ali Kh5,n, 160—162., 
Gada Dhaf Bhatt, 502, 506, 513, 

638,706. . .. . ,- 

Gadadhar P = Gradadhar Das, 46. 
Gadadhar Das, 36, 46. 
Gadadhar Misar, 35, 638. 
Gadu, 389, 
Gaj Siggh, of Jodh'pur, 76, 190, 

191. 
Gaj Siggh, o£ Xj'mer, 334. 
Gaj Siggh (No. 3), 812. 
Gaj'raj Upadhya, 585. 



INDEX OF PEE80NS. 



vu 



Gambhir Eay, 206. 

GambhiivSahi, 809. 

Gagg, 37». 

Gaflg = Gagga Par'sad, 37«, 108 

Add., 119, 671, 581. 
Gai)g, of Stipaaii, 597. 
. Gagga Dhar, 196, ,811. 
Gagg Ram, 640. 
Ganea, 570, 573, 674. 
Ganes Ji Misar, 81. 
Ganes Datt", 706. 
Gagga Dayal Dube, 719. 
Gagga Pati (No. 1), 320. 
Gagga Pati (No. 2), 481. 
Gagga Par'sad, 37n, 108 Add., 

119, 571, 581. 
Gagga Par'sad, of Supaali, 697. 
Gaii'patiThakur,l7. 
Garib l)as, 163. 
Ghagh,'217, 882. 
Ghan Anand = Anand Ghau, 347, 

571,581. 
Ghan Bay, 246. 
Ghan Syam Sukal, 92, 581. 
Ghasi Ehatt, 821. 
Ghasi Earn (No. 1), 7. 
Ghasi Earn (No. 2), 230, 571. 
Gidh, 813. 

Giridhar (the Holy Master), 638. 
Giri Dhar Das (Kabiray), 345, 

671, 638. 
Giri Dhar, of Hol'pnr, 126, 483. 
Giri Dhar Banar'si, see Giri Dhar 

Das (Banar'si). 
Giri Dhar Das (Banar'si) alias 

Gopal Chandr' Saha, 377, 680, 

681,706. 
Giridhari, 571, 625. 
Giri Dhari Bhat, 733. 
Gir'dhar, 35. 
Gobar'dhan, 244. 
Gobardhan Nath, 683. 
Gobind Atal, 223. 
Gobind Das, 36, 43, 638. 
Gobind Ji, 306. 
Gobinii Earn, 820. 



Gobind Eao, 629.. 

Gobind Siggh, 22, 169. 

Godh, 310. 

Gokul Bihari, 221. 

GokulChand, 706. 

Gokul Nath, chap. X, introd., 659, 

664—566, 581, §38. 
Gokul Par'sad alias Braj, 694. 
Gop Nath, 226. 
Gopa, 27. 

Gopal (the elder), 208. 
Gopal, of Bandho, 631. 
GSpal, of Char'khari, 622. 
Gopal Bhatt, 68. 
Gopal Chandr' Sahu, see Giri Dhar 

Das ( Banar'si ). 
Gopal Das, 297, 638. 
Gopal Lai, 493. 
Gopal Nayak, 638. 
Gopal Ray, 818. 
Gopal Sarail, 196, 215. 
Gopal Siggh, 35, 819. 
Gopal fhakur, 642. 
Gopi Chand, 699. 
Gopi Nath (son of Ballabhachac'j), 

34. 
Gopi Nath (Ghattr' Sal's father), 

202». ^ 

Gopi Nath,. of Banaras (No. 1), 

564^566. 
Gopi Nath, of Banaras (No. 2), 

705. 
Gora, 31. 
GosSl, 817. 
Gulab Siggh, 486. 
Gulal, 571, 657. 
Gulal Siggh, 398. 
Gulam Nabi alias Eas Lin, 764. 
Gulam E&m, 816. 
Gulami, 816. 

Gnman Ji Misar, 348—361. 
Guman Kabi? = Guman Ji Misar. 
Guman Siggh (No. 1), 553. 
Guman Siggh (No, '2), 647. 
Guman Siggh, Jan' war, 615, 
Gumani, 814. 

M 2 



VUl 



INDEX OF PEES0N8. 



Gun Chandr', 87. 

Gtin Deb, 493. 

Gun Sindhi, 635. 

Gunakar TripatH, 728. 

Gur' Datt', 663. 

Gur Datt' Siggh, of Amethi, 332, 

334, 369, 604 
Gur Datt' Sukal, 571, 630—633. 
Gur Din Pftre, 637. 
Gur Din Eay, 714. 
Gwal, 383, 507, £08, 581. 
Gyan Das P = Gyan Chandr' Jati, 

638. 
Gyan Chandr' Jati, ? 638, 651. ' 
Hari Deb, 943. 
Hajari Lai Tribedi, 718. 
Hall, F. E., 8. 

Hammir Deb, the Chaahan, 8, 37. 
Hammir Sagkh, 31. 
Hanuman, 533, 681, 796. 
Hanumant, 938. ' ^ \ 

Hanumant Siggh, 209. 
Har Charan alias Chmn Siggh, 
^ 637. 

Har Charan Das, 939. 
Har Dayal, 94l. i 
Har Deb, 505. 
Har Jiban, 9^. 
Har Ju, 270. 

Hara (Eaj'put tribe), 330, 334. 
Hari (wrote comm. on Kabi-prija), 

134,761. 
Hari (mentioned by Sud), 367. 
Hari Ballabh',-944. 
Hari Bans, 367. 
Haribans Misar, 179, 209. 
Haribans Eay, 126, 
Hari Bhanu, 945. 
Haribyas = Byas Swami = Hari 

Earn Sukal, 64—56. 
Haribyasi (name of sect), 54. 
Hari Chand (No. 1), 37. 
Hari Chand (No. 2), 204. 
Hari Chand (No. 3), 942. 
Hari Das, of Biindaban, 69—62. 

638. 



Hari Das (mentioned by Sud), 367. 

Hari Das, of Banda, 639, 646. 

Hari Das, of Panna, 546. 

Hari Gobind, 22. 

Hari Har, 367, 429. 

Hari Jan (No. 1), 249, 571. 

Hari Jan (No. 2), 134, 575. 

Hari Kes, 203, 571. 

Hari Eishun, 22. 

Hari Lai, 671, 946. 

Hari Nath, of As'ni, 109, 113, 

114,629, 
Hari Nath, of Guj'rat, 355. 
Hari Pra5ada, 196, 662. 
Hari Par'sad, 196, 562. 
Hari Earn, 141. 
Hari Earn Das, 23. 
Hari Earn Sukal alias Eyas Swami, 

54—66. 
Hari Eay, 22. 
Harishchandr', chap. X, intiod., 

34, 37», 569, 580, 581, 706. 
Har'kh Nath Jha, 642, 706. 
Harsa, 349. 
Hathi, 664. 
Hati Narayan, 36, 49. 
Hem, 571, 950. 
Hem Gopal, 951, 
Hem Nath, 952. 
Himachal Bam, 626. 
Himmati Bahadur, 173, 359, 378, 

380, 527. 
Himmat Siggh, 160, 334, 604. 
Hindnpati, 503—504. 
Hira Mani, 337. ' 
Hira Lai, 948. 
Hiras (?), 367. 
Hir'dffl Siggh (Sahi) alias Hir'des, 

346,503,671. 
Hir'des alias Hir'dS Siggh (Sahi), 

503, 547, 571. 
Hit Anand, 638, 947. 
Hit Haribans, 56 — 58, 638. 
HitNand, 947. 
Hit Ram, 367, 762.^ 
Hit Earn Bay, 770. 



INDEX OF FBB80NS, 



IX 



Hoernle (editor and translator of 
Prithwi Eaj Kay'sa), 6. 

Hoi Eay, 126. 

Hulas Eabi, 949. 

Hulas Ram, 949. 

Hulasi (Tul'si Das's mother), 128. 

Humayun, 24», 103, 113. 

Husen, 276, 367. 

Ibrahim alias Eas Ehan, 67, 89. 

Ichchha Bam Abasthi, 497. 

Ichhan, 440. 

Ulamgarii, 34. 

Indar'jit Siggh, 134, 136, 137. 

Indar'jit Tripathi, 176. 

Indu, 392. 

Is, 430. 

Ishwar Chandra (Bidyasagar), 
chap. X, introd., note. 

Is'lem Shah, 112. 

Iswar, 177, 571. 

Iswari Narayan Siggh, 569, 571, 
573, 575, 676. 

Iswan Par'sad Tripathi, 712. 

f suph Khan, 421 . 

Jab'res, 734. 

Jadu Nath (No. 1), 35. 

Jadu Nath (No. 2), 238. 

Jadu Nath Si^gh, Bms, 621. 

Jadu Bay, 153. 

Jag Deb, 427. 

Jag Jiban, 264. 

Jag Jiban Das, 323, 487. 

Jag Mohan Siggh, 693'. 

Jag Nand, 218. 

Jag'dis, 117. 

Jag'nes, 826. 

Jag'nik or Jag'nayak, 7. 

Jagamag, 123. 

Jagan, 98. 

Jagannaj, 122. 

Jagannath, 764. 

Jagannath Abasthi, 599, 601, 638. 

Jagannath Das, 638, 764. 

Jagat (name of a clan), 6, 37. 

Jagat Seth Dal Chand, 699, 912. 

Jagat Seth Fatah Ohand,'.699. 



Jagat Seth Mah'tab Eay, 699. 
Jagat Siggh, of Par'na, 162. 
Jagat Siggh, of Mewar, 184. 
Jagat Siggh, of Amer, 196. 
Jagat Siggh, of MaH, 206. 
Jagat Siggh, of Char'khari, 513. 
Jagat Siggh Bisen, 339, 340, 605. 
Jagat Siggh Sawai, of Amer, 502, 

606. 
Jal, of Lakh'nau, 598. 
JS Chaiid, 6. 

Jai Cliand, of Mar' war, 195. 
Jai Chand, of Jaipur, 628- 
Jia Datt' Thakur, 17. 
JS Deb, of Dar'bhagga, 17, 19. 
Jai Deb, of Kampila, 160, 161. 
Ja Deb (ISTo. 3), 459. 
J^ Krish'n, 683, S30. 
Jai Narind Siggh, 690. 
JS Siggh, of Mewar, 188. 
Jai Siggh, of Amer, 196. " 
Jm. Siggh, of Bandho, 628. 
JS Siggh (No. 4), 663, 
JS Siggh (No. 5), 831. 
Jm Siggh Mirza, 196. 
Jm Siggh Sawai, chap. IX, introd., 

325—330. 
Jmn Din Ah'mad, 143, 144. 
Jaisa, 163. 
JSit, 120. 

Jmt Bam ? = Jmt, 120. 
Jalali Das, 323. 
Jalalu'd din, 82. 

Jamal Kabi ? == Jamalu'd din, 85. 
Jamalu'd din, 85. 
Jan Gopal, 163. 
Jan Sahib, 703. 
Janaki Par'sad (No. 1), 134, 577, 

578, 638. 
Janaki Par'sad (No. 2), 695. 
Jauardan, 288. 
Janar'dan Bhatt, 827. 
Jani Bihari Lai, 706. 
Jan'kes, 556. 
Jasodanand, 465. 
Jas'want, 741. 

M 3 



INDEX OF FEB80N8. 



JasVant Siggh, ol Mav'war, 76, 
149-Add., 194, 195, 370, 377. 

Jas'want Siggh, Bhagela, 149, 377. 

Jata gagkar = Nil Kanth Tri- 
pathi, 143, 148. 

Jawahir (No. 1), 485, 

Jawahir (Nto. 2), 588. 

Jawahir Mall, 128. 

Jayadeva, 19, 20, 89. 

Jayanand, 828. 

Jib Nath, 594. 

Jiban (No. 1), 77. 

Jiban (No. 2), 438. 

Jitau, 638. 

Jodh, 118. 

Jodh Bay, 8, 9. 

Jodhi cdias Ajodhya^ Par'sad 

Sukal, 622. 
Jogajifc Siggh, 159. 
Jogi Das, 168. 
Joyasi, 219. 
Jug Eaj, 765. 
JngEaj Das, 638. 
JngTil, 313. 

Jugul Das P = Jugul 313, 638. 
Jugul Eishor Eabi P = jugul 

Kishor Bhatt P 
Jugul Kishor Bhatt, 348, 349, 352-^ 

364 
Jugul Par'sad ChaSbe, 829. 
Jul'phekat, 409. 
Jump Chand, 37. 
Kabi Datt', 475, 508. 
Eabi Bam alias Earn Nath, 785. 
Kabindr' = Saraswati, 151. 
Kabindr" = TJday Nath Tribedi, 

334, 571. 
Eabindr', of Nar'war, 463, 496. 
Kabindr' Tribedi, 334. 
f Kabir, 168. 

(KabirDas, 13—17, 22, 168, 529, 
638. 
Kabiraj = Sukh Deb Misar, 160, 
, 571,681,661. 
Kabiraj (No. 2), 581, 661. 
Kabiray = Bir'bal, 106. . 



' Kabiray = Sundar Das, 142. 

Kabiray = Par'bin, 251. 

Kabiray = Giri Dhar, 345. 

Kabiray (No. 5), 656. 

Kala Nidhi (No. 1), 228. 

Kala Nidhi (No. 2), 452. 

Kali Charan Baj'peyi, 801. 

Kali Din, 802. 

Kali Harakh Chandr', 580. 

Kali Mir'ja, 638. 

Kali Par'sad Tiwari>-7D5, 739. 

Kali Earn, 464. 

Kalidas Tribedi, chap. X., introd., 
159, 334, 358, 359, 571. 

Kalidasa, 128. 

Kalika, 681, 780. 

Kalyan, 291. 

K^lyan Das, 36, 48, 638. 

Kalyan Siggh, of Bikaner, 73. 

Kalyan Siggh, of Keh'ri, 962. 

Kalyan Siggh Bhatt, 800. 

Earn Sen, 629. " 

Kama Kandala, 629. 

Kamal, 16, 638. 

Eamal Nayan, 410. 

Kamauch, 278. 

Kamlakar (? = Fadmakari 606), 

638. 
Kam'les, 660. 
tam'ta Par'sad, 333, 644. 
* Kam'vati, 629. 
Kanak, 301. * 

Kanh (the elder), 491. 
Kanh (the younger) alias Kanha! 

Lai, 557. 
Kanhai Lai alias Kanh, 667. 
Kanhraya Bakjish, 732. 
Kanhar Das, 52, 638. 
Kanhay, 128. 

Karan Bhatt, of Par'na, 196, 846. 
Karan, of Jodh'pur; 370. 
Karan, Brahman of Par'na, 604. 
Karan (P = Kumbh'karan),,21, 638. 
Karan alias Kar'nes, 116. 
Kare Be^, 317. 
Kar'nes alias Karan, 116. 



INDBX OF PERSONS. 



XI 



KaU'taliya, 638. 

Karuna Nidhan, 638. 

Kashth. Jihwa Swami, 569. 

Kasi Nath, 138, 139, 850. 

£asi Earn, 176, 571. 

Kasiffl 'All Khan, 699. 

£azim 'Ali Jawaii, 629. 

Kedar, 3. 

Keh'ri, 70, 571. 

Kesab, of Mithila, 361, 362. 

Kesab Bhat^ ? = Sri Bhatt, 53, 54, 

55. 
Kesab Das Sanadhya Misar, chap. 

VII, inteod., chap. X, introd., 

37«, 134—139, 359, 571, 577, 578. 
Kesab Das, of Kashmir, -63. 
Kesab Eay, Babu, 300, 359. 
Kesari Siggh, 374. 
Kes'war Earn, 804. 
Kdsho Earn Bhatt, 706. 
Kewal Earn, 36, 45, 638. 
Khan, 781. 
Khan Multan, 807. 
Khandan, 536. 
K&an'khana = 'Abdu'r Eabim, 

108, 119, 671. 
Kharag Sen, 220. 
Kharag Lai Bahadur Mall, 706. 
Khem, 87, 103. 
Khem Pal, 776. 
Khetal, 810. 
Khichi (name of tribe), 333—338, 

341—343. 
Khub Chand, 119 Add., 809. 
Khuman (the bard), 170. 
Khuman Siggh alias Khuman 

Eaut Guh'lsat, 2. 
Khuman Siggh, of Char'khari, 508, 

509. 
Khusal Pathak, 808. 
Kil, 51. 

Kishor Sur, 385, 571, 581. 
Kigkar Gobind, 455. 
^obid alias Umapati Tripathi, 

691. ■ 

KripaEam(No. 1), 328, 571. 



Kripa Eam (No. 2), 571, 629, 

797. 
Kripal, 806. 
Krish'n (the god), 128. 
Krish'n (No. 2), 180. 
Ilrish'n (No. 3), 196, 327. 
Krish'n (No. 4), 666, 
Krish'n ChStanya, 63. 
Krish'n Chand, 37. 
Krish'n Das (surnamed Pay Ahari), 

35, 36, 44—46, 50, 51, 638. 
Krish'n Das, 804, 806. 
Krish'n Datt' Siggh, 605, 606. 
Krish'n Deb, 34. 

Krish'n Jiban, ? 77, P 438,^671, 638. 
Krish'n Lai, 456, 571. 
Krish'n Ean'chhor, 20. 
Krish'n Eayalu, 34. 
Krishnanaiid Byas Deb, 34, 638. 
Kul'pati Misar, 282, 571, 638. . 
Kumar Mani, 437. 
Kumar Pal, 4. 

Kumbhan Das, 35, 39, 638. . , 
Kumbh'karan, 20, 2.1, (?) 638. 
Kundan, 308. 
Kunj Gopi, 803. 
Kunj Lai, 5£i5. 
Kusal Siggh, 72. 
Lachchhan Das, 638, 775. . 
Lachchhu, 466. 
Lachhiman Eaw,. 678. 
Lachhiram, 126, 638, 723. 
Lachhman, 128. 
Lachhmau Bhatt, 34. 
Lachhman Siggh, 706. 
Lachhmi, 916. 

Lachhmi Dhar Bhatt, 512. ' 
Lachh'mi Narayan, 108, 124. 
Lachhmi Nath Thakur; 700. 
Lachhmishwar Siggh, 702.. 
Lachhuman, 914. 
Lachhuman Saran Das, 777. 
lachhuman Siggh, 915. 
Lajab, 918. 
Lakam'si, 31. 
Lakhima 'Thakurain, 17. 

M 4 



xu 



INDEX OF FEB80N8. 



Lai, of Banaras, 196, 561, P 525, 

581. 
Lai, of Pav'na, 197, 203. 
Lai (No. 3), ? 535, 919.' 
Lai Bihari, 293. 
Lai Chand, 920. 
Lai Giridhar, 451. 
Lai Jha alias Eabi Lai, 363, 706. 
Lai Ji, 51, 323. 
Lai Mukund, 391, 560. 
Lala Fathak, 469. 
Lalan Das, 100. 
Lalit Earn, 917. 
LaUu Ji Lai, chap. X, introd., 142, 

196, 216, 326, 629. 
Latif, 470. 
Latiph, 470. 
Lekh'iaj alias Naud Eiishor Misar, 

697. 
Lila Dhar, 190. 
Lodhe, 753. 
L6k Maui, 921. 
Lok Nath, 638, 753. 
Lone, 922. 

Lone Siggh, 614, 629. 
Logkaran, 107. 
Madan Gopal Sukal, 596. 
Madan Kishor (No. 1), 388. 
Madan Kishor (No. 2), 460. 
Madan Mohan, 363, 638. 
Mattan Mohan, of Char'khan, 637. 
Madhab Das, 26, 638. 
Madhab Siggh, 602, 604. 
Madhabanand Bharati, 687. 
Madho Das (No. 1) ? = Madhab 

Das, 2^. 
Madho Das (No. 2), 163, 
Madhu Nath, 401. 
Madhu Sudan, 241. 
Madhu Sudan Das, 476. 
Madhukar Shah, 134. 
Madhwachar'j, 34, 638. 
Maha, 403, 581. 
Maha Eabi Hay = Sundar Das, 

142. 
Mahadeo Par'sad, 347. 



Mahaldar Khan Naza, 664. 
Mahanand Baj'pe'yi, 619, 638. 
Mahapatr' = Narhari Sahay, 113, 

114. 
Mah'bub (Mahibub), 384. 
Mahes Dag = Bir'bal, 106. 
Mahes Datt', 696. 
Mahes Eabi, 696. 
Maheswar Sijggh, 641, 
Mahipati, 890. 
Mah'raj, 571, 581, 793. 
Mah'tab, 889. 

Mah'tab Eay (Jagat Seth), 699. 
Makhan Lakhera, 670. 
Mak'rand, 457, 571, 581.. 
Mak'rand PSre, 60. ' 
Mak'rand Eay, 374, 610. 
Mak'sudan (P), 571. 
Malik Muhammad Jayasi, 31, 101, 

171. 
Malind dliaa Mihi Lai; 623. 
Mall, 337. 

Maluk Da?, 243, 638. 
Man, of Eaj'putana, 186. 
Man, of Bais'wara, 373, 629. 
Man, of Char'khari, 517. 
Man Bhawan, 374, 376, 638. 
Man Das, 173 
Man Nidhi, 771. 
Man Eay, 116. 
Man Eaj, 571. 
Man Siggh (Kaohh'waha), 109, 114, 

196. 
Man Siggh (Shak'dwipi), 681, 583, 

599, 600—604, 737. 
Man'bodh Jha alias Bholan Jha, 

360. 
Manchit, 413. 
Mandan, 154, 571, 581. 
Maijgad Siggh, 154. 
Mani Deb, 564—566, 581. 
Mani Kanth, 772. 
Manj Lai =^ Chintamani Tripaihi, 

143. 
Mani, Earn Misar of Kanalfij, 

477, 571. 



INDBX OF PEESONS, 



XIU 



Mani Earn Misar, of Sathi, 676. 

Mani Ray, 886. 

Manik Ohand (No. 1), 78, 638. 

Manik Chand (No. 2), 440. 

Manik Chand (Seth), 699. 

Manik Chand (No. 4), 710, 

Manik Das, 891. 

Maniyar Sii)gh, 684, 

Manna Lai (No. 1), 581, 683, 638. 

Manna Lai (No. 2), 699, 638. 

Manohar, 402. 

Manohar Das, 107. 

Manohar Das, Niranjaui, 888. 

Utan'sa, 885. 

Man'sa Bam, S71 , 885. 

Man'sukh, 302. 

Manya, 887. 

Manu, 699. 

Mar'dan Siggh Ems, 366. 

Mata Din Sukal, 731. 

Mata Din Misar, 698. 

Mati Earn Tripathi, 143, 145 Add., 

146, 147, 359, 523-525, 571, 

681, 638. 
Maggad, 884. 

Maz'har 'AH Khan Wila, 216, 629. 
Medha, 649. 

Mihl Lai alias Malind, 612, 623. 
Mir Afe'mad, 435. 
Mir Eustum, 294. 
Mira Bai, 20— 22, 638. 
Miran, 671, 892. ~ 
Miri Madhab, 295. 
Mirza Eazim 'Ali, 629. 
Misar, 303. 
Mithiles, 571. 
Mitrajit Siggh, 208. 
^Mitu Das GaBtam, 679. \ 

Mod Nath Jha, 642. 
Mod'bati, 17. 
Mod Narayan alias Par'tap Siggh, 

362. 
Mog Ji, 662. 
Mohan (No. 1), 284, 638. 
MShan (No. 2), 329. 
Mchan BBatt, 603, 506, 512. 



Mohan Lai Visnu Lai Pandia, 6, 

6», 8. 
Mokal Deb, 20. 
Moti Earn, 216, 671. 
Moti Lai, 30. 
Mu'azzam Shah, 181, 182. 
Murari Das, 773. 
Mubarak, 110. 
Mubarak 'Ali, 94, 581. 
Muliammad, 296. 
Muliammad 'Ali, 438. 
Muhammad GhaSEs, 60. 
/ Muhammad Khan alias Sul'tan 

Pathan, 214. 
Muhammad Qiyam, 515. 
Muhammad Shah, 173, 321, 326, 

347—349, 355. 
Mflk Ji, 662. 
Mukund, 266, 571. 
Mukund Lai, 359, 559, 560. 
Mukund Siggh, 127. 
Mun, 895. 
Muni Lai, 893. 
Munna Lai, 581, 583. 
Mur'liDhar, 156, 155^, 571, 581. 
Musahib, 894. 
Nab Khan, 426. 
Nab Nidhi, 581, 789. 
Nabha Das, 36, 44, 61, 52, 128, 

319, 640. V 

Nabi, 571, 848. 
Nabin, 581, 790. 
Nadir Shah, 347, 699. 
Nagar, 95. 

Nagari Das P = Nagar, 95, 638. 
Nag'mati, 31, ' 

NSn, 852. 
NSna Debi, 196. 
NSsuk, 560. ,': 

Najami, 846. 

Najib Khan alias Easiya, 581, 788. 
Najib Khan ban 'Abdu'l Latif, 664. 
Najir, 171. 

Nam Deb, 22, 638, 767. 
Nanak, 22, 169, 638. 
Nanak-panthi, 22. 



XIV 



INDEX OF PEBS0N8. 



Nand and Nand Eishor, 697. 
Nand Das, 35, 43, 629, 638, 
Nand Kishor Misar alias Lekh'- 

raj, 697. 
Nand Lai (No. 1), 80. 
Nand Lai (No. 3),. 390. 
Nand Earn, 846. 
Nandan, 86. 
Nandipati, 847. 
Nar Bahan, 56, 57. 
Nar Siggh, 17. 
Nara Sidiha, 17. 
Karami alias Naragiiya, 38. 
Narayan, 454. 
Narayan Bhatt, 66. 
Narayan Das = Nabha Das, 51, 

571. 
Narayan Eay, 134, 377, 571, 573. 
Narendra Siggh, of Mithila, 363, 

363. 
Narendra Siggt, of Patiyala, 681, 690. 
Narendr' Lai, 818. 
Nares, 581, 791. 
Nar'iari Das ? = Nar'hari Sahay, 

113, 638. 
Nar'hari Sahay, 113—115, 638. 
Narind, 414. 
Narottam, 501. 
Narottam, 675. 
Narottam Das, 33. 
Nar'pati Siggh, 511. 
Nar'si Mah'ta, 638. 
Nar'siggh Dayal, 638. 
Nasi Earn, 638. 
Nath, 68, 147, 163, 440, 571. 581, 

633, 850. 
Nath Kabi = Sambhu Nath Si^gh ' 

SulagM, 147. 
Nawal (No. 1), 526, 571. 
Nawal (No. 2), 849. 
Nawal Das, 798. 
Nawal Kishor, 849. 
Nawal Siggh (the Kayasth); 636, 

671. 
Nawaz (the Brahman, of the 

Doab), 198, 571, 681, 706. 



Nawaz (the Brahman, of Bnadel'- 

khand), 342. 
Nawaz (of Bil'gram), 448, 571. 
Nayak, 571, 783. 
Nayana Pala, 196. 
Nazir, 171, 638. 
Nehi, 851. 
Neja Earn Siggh, ehap. X, introd., 

11|, 539. 
Nidhan (the elder), 254. 
Nidhan (the younger), 349, 350, 

351. 
Nidhi, 131, 571. 
Nihal (the elder), 91. 
Nihal (the younger), 460.. 
Nil Kanth Misar, 126, 132. 
Nil Kanth Tripathi, 143, 148, 359, 

671. 
Nil Mani, quoted in Eag., 

638. 
Nil Eatah, quoteiin Eag, 638. 
Nil Sakhi, 548. 
Nila Dhar, 133. 
Nima, 13. 

Nimaditya, 63, 64, 638, 
Nimawat, see Nimaditya. 
Nipat Niranjan, 129. 
Niwaj (the Brahman, of the Doab), 

198, 571, 581, 706. 
Niwaj (the Brahman, of Bundel'- 

khai]i4).342. 
Niwaj (of Bil'gram), 448, 571. 
Nizamat Khan, 175. 
None, 539, 545. 
Nrip Sambhu = Sambhu Nath 

Siggh S'alagki, 147, 359, 571, 

681. 
Nuri, 13. 
Oil Earn, 83. 
Padmakar Bhatt, ehap. X, iatrod., 

6U2, 506— 508, 612, 571, 581, 

638. 
Padmavati, 31. 
Padmawat, 31.' 
Padmes, 441. i 

Padmini, 13. 



INDEX OF PBESONS. 



XV 



Padum Nath, 36, 50. 

Pak'lad (No. 1), 269. 

Pah'lad (No. 2), 513. 

Paj'nes, 510, 671! 

Pakhane, 853. 

Paucham (the elder), 205. 

Pafioham (tie younger), 653. 

Pancham (No. 3), 707. 

Pandurik, 388. 

Pandit Par 'bin alias Thakur Par'- 

sad Payasi Misar, 599, 600. 
Parag, 567. 
Param, 633. 
Paras, 681, 792. 
Parasu !Ram, 55, 571. 
Par'bat, 74, 671. 
Par'bm, 261. 

Par'bin (Pandit), 699, 600. 
Par'bin Eai Paturi, 134, 136, 137, 

571. 
Par'dhan, 854. 
Par'dhan Kesab Ray, 854. 
Par'mal or Paramardi, 7. 
Par'mall, 856. 

Par'manand Das, 35, 38, 638. 
Par'manand Lalla Pnranik, 541. 
Par'mes (No. 1), 222, 671, 581. 
Par'mes (No. 2), 571, 581,, 616. 
Par'sad, 183, 571. 
Par'siddh, 125. 
Par'tap Sahl, 135, 149, 199, 377, 

671. 
Par 'tap Siggh, recast tbe Khuman 

Eay'sa, 2. 
Par' tap Siggh alias Mod NSrayan, 

361, 362. 
Par'tap Siggh Sawai, 603. 
Par'yag Das, 163. 
Pati Earn, 258. 
PSwar (a tribe), 699. 
Phal'ka Eaw, 134, 678. 
Phaturi Lai, 701. 
Pheran, 860. 
Phul Ch\nd, 708. 

Pithaara, alias of Prithwi Eaj 
~ CtaHhan, 4. 



Pramara (a tribe), 699. 

Pran Nath (No. 1), 167. 

Pran Nath (No. 2), 408. 

Pran Nath (No. 3),- 490. 

Pran'nathi (name of a sect), 167. 

Praii'bati, 17. 

Prath Jagat (name of a clan), 37. 

Prem Kabi ? = Prem Nath, 851. 

Prem Keswar Das, 629, 859. 

Prem Nath, 349, 350, 351, 581. 

Prem Sakhi, 423. 

Premiyaman, 433. 

Prithwi Eaj of Bikaner, 5, 73, 638. 

Prithwi -Eaj, the ChaSban, 4, 6, 7, 
8, 37, 638. 

Priya Das, 37, 51, 128, 319, 629. 

Pukhi, 442, 571, 

Punda, 1. 

Puran, 856. 

Piiran Chand Juth, 868. 

Purukhottam, 2q0, 638. 

PurukhottaBi Sukal, 681. 

Pushkar, 857. 

Puspa, 1. 

Pusya, 1. 

Qadir Bakhsh, 67, 89. 

Qiyam Khan, 445. 

Eabi Nath, 425. 

Eabi Datt' alias Sabita Datt', 304, 
359. 

Eadhaballabhi (name of sect), 34, 

35, 54. 
Eadha Charan GosSI, 706. 
Eadhakanta Deb (Eaja Sir), 638. 
Eadha Krish'n Das, 706. 
Eadhe Lai, 554. 
Eadhes Misar, 37». 
Eagho, 31. 
Eaghu Lai, 897. 
Eaghu Mahasay, 638. 
Eaghu Nath (No. 1), 8, 
Eaghu Nath (No. 2), 279. 
Eaghu Nath (No. 3), 196, 659, 

660,664,671. > 

Eaghu Nath alias Sib Din, 736. 
Eaghu Nath Das, 692, 693. 



XYl 



INDEX OF PBBSOKS. 



Baghu Nath Saw alias Appa 

Sahib, 505, 506. 
Baghu Nath Kay, 193, 581. 
Kaghu Nath Siggh, 366. 
Eaghu Na,tli Upadhya, 680. 
Eaghu Kaj Siggh, 632, 581, 629. 
Eagliu Earn, 896. 
Eaghu Eay, 420. 
Eahim = Abdu'r Eatim, 108. 571, 

756. 
Eahim (No. 2), 756. 
Eaja Earn (No. 1), 233. 
Eaja aim (No. 2), 396, 
Eaj Siggh (of Gaur), 160. 
Eaj Siggh (of UdEpui-), 185—188. 
Eajab Ji, 163. 
Eajjab, 571, 898. 
Earn, 128. 

Earn alias Earn Bakhsh, 196, 607. 
- Earn Bakhsh alias Earn, 196, 907. 
Earn Bhatt, 445. 
Earn Chand Siggh, 60, 
Earn Chandr' (No. 1), 34. 
Earn Chandr' (No, 2), 37». 
Earn Charan, 902. 
Earn Charan Das, 128. 
Earn Das (Baba), 22,37, 112, 638. 
Earn Das (No. 2), 478. 
Earn Datt", 903. 
Earn Daya, 904. 
Earn Deb Siggh, 905, 
Earn Din, 669, 
Earn Din Siggh, 128, 581. 
Earn Din Tripathi, 143, 523, S24. 
Earn Gulam, 633. 
Earn Jas, 638. 
Bam Ji, 262, 

Earn Ju (P = Earn Ji), 571, 
Earn Kishun Chaabe, 538. 
Eam Kishun Kabi, 538. 
Earn Krish'n, 31. 
.Earn Lai, 908. 
Earn Narayan, 737, 
Earn Nath alias Kabi Earn, 581, 

785. 
Earn Nath Misar, 906. 



Earn Nath Par'dhan, 624. 

Earn Par'sad, 444, 638. 

Earn Par'sad (Agar'wala), 639, 640. 

Earn Eay^ 775, 
' Earn Eup, 761. 

Earn Sahay, 568, 638. 

Earn Sanehi (name of sect), 324. 

Earn Saran, 378, 379, 

Earn Sebak, 910. 

Earn Sekh, 909. ' 

Earn Siggh (No. 1), 371. 

Eam Siggh (No. 2), 380. 

Eama Kant, 912. 

Eamanand, chap. IX, introd., 10— 

13, 17, 31, 128. 638. 
Eamapati, 671, 900. 
Ean'chhor, a form of Krish'n, 20, ' 
Ean Chhor, 189. 
Ban Dhir Siggh, 735. 
Ean Jit Siggh Sah JSg're, 714, 716. 
Ean'jit Siggh, S§gar, 595. 
Eagg Lai, 368. 
Eaggila Pritam, 638, 
' Eaggili Sakhi, 638, 
Eas Dham, 462. 
Eas Khan alias Ibrahim, 67, 671, 

581, 
Eas Lai, 428. 

Eas Lin alias Gulam Nabij 754. 
Eas Nayak alias Talib 'Ali, 439. 
^as Pnfij Das, 901. 
Eas Eaj, 404. 
Eas Earn, 285, 
Eas Eagg, 620, 
Eas Eiip, 415. 
Easal alias Aggan Lai, 609, 
Easik Bihari, 405, 638, 
Easik Das, 774. 
Easik Gobind, 638.' 
Easik Lai, 534. 
Easik Eay, 638. 

Easik Siromanl, 267, of. No. 262. 
Easiya alias Najib Khan, 571, 788. 
Eatan, 149 Add., 155, 571. 
Eatan Kuar, 376, 699, 
Eatan Pa], 899. 



INDEX OF PERSONS. 



xvu 



Eatan Pal Siggh, 212. 

Eatan Seii, 31. 

Eatan Siggh P = Kaw Eatan, 70. 

Eatanj Siggh alias Eat'nes (No. 2), 

149 Add., 344 Add. 
" Eatan Siggh alias Eat'nes (No. 3), 
149 Add., 519-522, 524. 
Eatan SiggE (No. 4), 677. 
Eati Nath, 671. 
Eatiya Eana,. 20. 
Eat'nes, 149, 199. 
Eat'nes alias Eatan Sii)gli, 149 
Add., 344 Add., 519—622, 524. 

Eaw Eana, 521. 

Baw Eatan, 207. 

Eay Chand, 912. 

Eay Das, 22. 

Bay Ju, 913. 

Bay KaM, 913. 

Eay Motan, 638. 

Bay Siggh, 73. 

Bikhi Ju, 654. 

Eikhi Nath, 671, 581, 794. 

Bikhi Earn Misar, 593. 

Eudal, 6, 7. 

Endr' Mani, 406. 

Eudr' Mani Misar, 348, 352. 

Eudr' Sahi Sulagki, 143. 

Eup ? =. Eup Narayan, 268, 

Eup Chand, 37. 

EtLp Narayan (No. 1), 17. 

Eup Narayan (No. 2), 268, 571. 

Eup Bay, 333. 

Eup Sahi," 503. 

Eup Sanatan, 638. 

Sabal Siggh, 210, 367, 564, 

Sabal Syam, 927. 

Sabha Sahi, 155, 346, 603. 

Sabha Siggh, 165, 346, 503. 

Sabita Datt' alias Eabi Datt', 304. 

Sadasib, 187. 

Sadaoand, 234. 

Sadhar, 498. 

Sagai-, 482. 

Sagun Das, 778. 

Sahab, 742. 



Sahab Ram, 571. 
Sahaj Earn, 592. 
Sahaj Earn Sanadbya, 686. 
Sahi (derivation of the term), 149». 
Sahi Bam, 275. 

Sahib Prasad Siggh, 515, 731. 
Sah'jo Bai, 638. 
Sahu, chap. IX, introd. 
Sakal, 248. 
! Sakhi Sukh, 453, 496. 
Salik, 613. 
Sama Sakhi, 638. 
Samadhan, 571. 
Samant, 178. 
Samar Siggh, 726. 
Sambhog Nath alias Sib Nath 

Sukal, 632., 
Sambhu (? 147), 681. 
Sambhu Kabi = Sambhu Nath 
Siggh Sulagki, 147. 
, Sambhu Nath, 357, 366. 

Sambhu Nath Misar (of Asothar), 
338, 339, 359. 

Sambhu Nath Misar (of BaiS'- 
wara), 621. - 

Sambhu Nath Misar (of Murad- 
abad), 928. 

Sambhu Nath Siggh Sulagki, see 
Nrip Sambhu, 147, 359, 571, 581. 

Sambhu Nath Tripathi, 366, 629. 

Sambhu Par'sad, 929. 

Samman, 471. 

Sam'nes, 528. 

Sampati, 652. 

Sanehi, 367, 577. 

Saggam, 480, 571. 

Sagkar, 855. 

Sagkar Das, 163. 
-Sagkar Tripathi, 613. 

Sagkh, 741. 

Sansrit Chand, 37. 

Sant, 318. 

Sant Bak's, 724. 

Sant Das P = Sur Das, 37«, 23fi. 

Sant Jib, 348, 353. 

Santan, of Binduki, 472, 671. > 



xvm 



INDEX OF FEDSONS, 



Santan, of Jaj'mau,473. 

Santokh Eay Betal, 515. 

Sar'b Sukh Lai, 367, 424. 

Saran, 916, 921. 

Sarai)g, 343. 

Saraijg Dhar (a descendant of 

Chand Bar'dai), 6, 8. 
Saras Earn, 930. 
Saraswati, 151. 

Sar'dar, 134, 196, 570-572. 581. 
Sasi Nath, 571, 931. 
Sasi Sekhar, 265. 
Satrujit Siggh, 926. 
Satya Nami (name of seat), 323. 
Sa;ada, 638. 
Sawari Sakhi, 638. 
Sayyad Bar'hana, 330. 
Scindia=Sendliia, 170. 
Sebak (No. 1), 579, 581. 
Sebak (No. 2), 581, 677. 
S§gar, 72, 595. 
Sekh, 236, 367, 671. 
Sekhar, 681, 795. 
Sen, 12, 22. 

Senapati, 165, 367, 571. 
Sendhia, 170. 
Seth Manik Chand, 699. 
Shah 'XLam, chap. IX, introd., 461. 
Shah Jahan, 51, 127, 128, 142, 143, 

151, 174, 191, 206, 699. 
Shahi (derivation of the term), 149». 
Shak'dwipi, 599. 
Shar'fo, 519. 
Sher Khan, 60. 
Sher Shah, 31, 113. 
Shiva Prasad, chap. X, introd., 

376, 699», 912. 
Shiu Pati, 153. 
Shri Nath, 34, 
Shuja', 194. 
Shujau'l Shah, 158. 
Sib (No. 1), 88, 671, 581. 
Sib (No. 2), 431, 671, 581. 
Sib Ar'sela, 338—340. 
Sib Chandr',- 638. 
Sib Das, 367, 768. 



Sib Das, 758. 

Sib Datt', 571, 688. 

Sib Din, 605, 606. 

Sib Din alias Eaghu Nath, 736. 

Sib Din Siggh, 601. 

Sib Lai Dube, 479. 

Sib NS'rSnri^name of sect), 321. 

Sib Narayan, 321. 

Sib Nath, 162, 671,860. 

Sib Nath Sukal, 630—632, 850-. 

Sib Par'kas Siggh, 643. 

Sib Par'sad, chap. X, introH., 376, 

699ra, 912. 
Sib Par'sann, 726. 
Sib Pati ? = Sib Nath, 152. 
Sib Eaj, 671, 932. 
Sib Eaj, the Sulagki, 146. 211. 
Sib Kam, 367, 416. 
Sib Siggh (Eaja),^ 1?, 18, 19. 
Sib Siggh (No. 2), 417. 
Sib Siggh, Sawai, 663. 
Sib Siggh, Sggar, 696, 723. 
Siddh, 743. 
Sil Chandr'^ 37. 
Siggh, 474, 571. 
Siggh Eaj, 480. 

Siromanl, 262, of. No. 267, 671. 
Sir'taj, 463. 
Sita, 128. 

Sita Earn Das, 727. 
Sital Par'sad Tiwari, 705, 706. 
Sital Eay, 615. 
Sital Tripathi, 143, 523, 626. 
S'iv Par'sad, chap. X; introd., 376, 

699(«), 912. 
Siva Prasad, chap. X, introd., 376, 

699, 913. 
Sobh, 936. 
Sobh Nath, 937. 
Som Nath, 367, 443, 447. 
Sona Dasi, 638. 
Sri Bhatt, 63, 65, 638. 
Sri Dhar (No. 1), 166, 167, 671, 681. 
Sri Dhar (of Eaj'putana), 166, 367. 
Sri Dhar alias Subba Siggh, 590, 
Sri Gobind, 211, 671. 



INDEX OF PEESOHS. 



XIX 



Sri Hath, 746. 

Sri Ear, 746. 

Sri Lai, 489. 

Sri Matt, 706. 

Srinibas Das, 706. 

Sripati, 150, 367, 671. 581. 

Srut Gopal, 16. 

Subans Sukal, 589, 590, 638. 

Subba Siggh, of Oel, 589, 580. 

SubuddM, 744. 

Sudan, 367. 

Sudar'san Siggh, 709. 

Suja, 194. 

Sujan, 933. 

Sujaa Siggh, 867, 368, 502. 

Sukabi, 499. 

Sukdeb, 160, 

Sukh Deb (of the Doab), 835. 

Suk(i Deb MisaT (of Eampila), 

160, 161, 369, 581,-661. 
Snkh Deb Misar (of DaSl&t'pur), 

335, 366, 367. 
Sukh Din, 681. 
Snkh Lai, 348, 354, 367. 
Sukh Earn, 729. 
Sukhanand, 446. 
Sukhan, 682. 
Salai)ki (a Eajput tribe), 143, 146, 

211. 
Sul'tan, 936. 
Snl'tan Pathan alias Muhammad 

Khan, 213, 214. 
Snmerfi, 367. 

Sumeri Siggh, 367, 681, 769. 
Sunam, 367. 

Sundar (of Mithila), 930. 
Sundar (of As'ni), 934. 
Sundar Das (of Gwaliyar), 142,. 

671, 581, 629. 
Sundar Das (of Mewar), 163, 164. 
Sundar ThakuTj 930. 
Sur (dynasty), 31. 
Sur Das, 6, 35„36, 37, 44, 69, 60, 

104, 112, 171, 236, 671, 62y, 638. 
Sur Sirjgh, 191. 
Sur Swami (name of Sur Das), 37. 



Sur Syam (name of Sur Das), 37. 

Suraj, 367, 760. 

Suraj Chand (name of Sur Das), 

37. 
Suraj Das (name of Sur Das), 37. 
SuratiMisar, .134,- 196, 326, 367, 

571, 629. 
Syam ? = Syam Lai, 269. 
Syam Das, 316, 638. 
Syam Lai (JSTo. 1), 269, 367. 
Syam Lai (No. 2), 341, 367. 
Syam Manohar, 779. 
Syam Saran, 309. 
Syam Sundar, 638. 
Syamal Das, 6». 
Tah'kan, 832. 
Taj, 99. . , 

Talib 'All alias Eas Nayak, 439. 
Tan Sen, .59, 60, 104,. 112, 638. 
Tara Pati, 419, 571. 
Tarini Charana Mittra, 629. 
Tattwa Beta, 231. 
Teg Bahadur, 22, 169. 
Teg Pani, 271. 
TeM, 749. 
Ter, 666. 

Thaknr (No. 1), 173, 378, 671, 681. 
Thakur (No. 2), 378, 434. 
Thakur Das, 6, 7. 
Thakur Dayal Siggh"; 706. 
Thakur Psr'sad Tribedl, 717. 
Thaknr Par'sad Tripathi, 670, 671, 

673, 696. 
Thakur Par'sad Payasi Misar, 699, 

600. 
Thakur Eam, 833. 
fhandi Das, 638. , 
TikSt Eay, 482, 484. 
Tikhi,,748. 
Tirath Eaj, 364. 
Todar Mai, 106, 128 Add. 
Tokh, 265, 671, 681. 
TokhNidhi", 432. 
Tosani, 107. 
,T6ta Earn, 706. 
Traill, John (writer on Dadu), 163, 



XX 



INDEX CLP PEBSOHS. 



Trilochan Das, 22. 

Tula Bam, 671. 

Tnl'si (author of the Kab'i-mala), 

153. 
Tul'si Das, chap. X, introd., 37, 69, 

104, 126, 128, 130, 171, 196, 676, 

638, 643, 740. 
Tul'si Earn (AgarVala), 61, 689, 

640. 
Tul'si Sri Ojha, 681,786. 
Turab Khan, 108 Add. 
tJda, 20, 21. 
tidal, 7. 
Udan, 6, 7. 
TTdar Chand, 37. 
Uday Das, 168. 
Uday Nath (No. 1), 280. 
UdayNa,th(No.2), 334. 
Uday Nath Tribedi, 169, 334. 368, 

369,671,850. 
Uday Sirigh ( = Udal or Udan), 7. 
Uday Siggh (of Mar'war), 76. 
Uday Siggh (of Eat'lam), 2u7. 
Udayana, 31. 
Udes, 468. 
Udh-6, 496, 671, 638. 



Udho Earn, 79, 671, 638. 
UditUarayan Siggh, 664, 666, 667, 

668. 
Udot Chand, 145 Add. 
Umapati, 17, 18. 
Umapati Tripathi alias Kobid, 

691. 
Umed, 494. 
Um'raw Siggh Bandhal'gdti, 589, 

604. 
Um'raw Siggh (of SHd'pur), 713. 
Vallabhacharya, 34. 
Valmiki, 128, 172, 712. 
Vikramaditya, 629. 
Visnu (^rman," 17. 
Waj'hauj 923. 
Wahab, 924. 
Wahid, 926. 
Wajid 'All, 598. 
Waterfield, 7. 
Waz'han, 923. 
Ya'qub Khan, 134, 394. 
Yakub Khan, 394. 
Yusuf Khan, 134, 421. 
Ztan Khan Kokah, 106. 
Zu'Lfaqar, 409. 



INDEX. 



XXI- 



INDEX No. II. 



NAMES OF WOEKS. 



Abhas Eamayan, 638. 
Ab'tar Charitr', 638. 
Adbhut Cfaaritr', 706. 
Adhya.tma Par'kas, 160. 
Agam, 13. 
Jhnik, 373. 
Ain-i-Akbari, 37. 
Aina-i-Tarikh Numa, 699. 
Alsgkar Bbukhan, 339. 
Alagkar Chandrika (iNo. 1), 27. 
Alagkar Chandrika (No. 2), 462. 
Alai)kar Chandroday, 512. . 
, Alagkar Dar'pan, 355, 
Alagkar Dipak, 338. 
Alagkar Mala, 326. 
Alapkar Nidhi, 348. 
Alha Khand, 6, 7. 
Alkhand, 6. 
Alifiiamah, 13. 
Amara Ko?a, .170, 567, 589, 638, 

761. 
Amrit Dhar, 11. 
Anand Eaghunandan, 706. 
Anaud Earn Sagar, 13. 
Anand Eas (No. 1), 561, 638. 
Anand Eas (No. 2), 638, 668. 
Anandambudhi, 532, 629. 
Ananya Jog, 5. 
Andher Nagari, 706. 
Anekarth (No. 1), 42. 
Anekarth (No. 2), 387. 
Anekarth (No 2), 433, 638. 
Agg Dar'pan, 754. 
Aggrezi AchcbLard ke sikh'ne kl 

TJpay, 699. 
Anubhasya, 34. 
Anurag Bag, 682. 



An'war Chandrika, 397. 

Anydkti-£alpadruni, 682. 

Arjun Eilas, 596. 

Ashta-jam (No. I), 140, 638. 

Ashta-jam (No. 2), 638, 694. 

Ashwa Binod, 72. 

Ashta Chhap, 35—37, 39—43. 819, 

Askand Bindd, 527. 

Awadh Bilas, 638. 

Azim 1 Shahi, recension of Sat Sai, 

196. 
BachchS ka in'am, 699. 
Bachitra Natak, 169. 
Badhu-binod, 159. 
Bag Bahar (No. 1), 344. 
Bag Bahar (No. 2), 682. 
BmdikI Hinsa, 706. 
BSdya Manotsab, 638. 
Badya Eatan (No. 1), 596. 
BSdya Ratan (No. 3), 827. 
'Batagya Sandipini, 128. 
Bsag Bansabali, 621. 
BStal Pachisi (No. 1), 326, 638. 
BHtal Pachisi (No. 2), 366, 638. 
BStal Pachisi (No. 3), 629, 638. 
Baital Pachisi (No. 4), 638, 883. 
Bak Manohar Piggal, 637. 
Bal Bodh, 699. 
Bal Khel, 706. 
Balakh ki Eammni, 13. 
Bal'bhadra Charitra, 511. 
Balak Puran, 664. 
Ballabh Digbijgl, 34. 
Bama Man Eanjan (No. 1), 482. 
Bama Man Eanjan (No. 2), 699. 
Bani, IX 
Bausi Ealpalata, 593. 

N 



xxu 



INtlEX OF WORKS. 



Bara Masa (No. 1), 13. 

Bara Masa (No. 2), 924. 

Baraggana Eahasya, 706. 

Bar'n Mala, 699. 

Barttik Eaj'niti, 629. 

Bar'wai Alagkar, 609. 

Bar'wai Nayika Bhed (No.l), 445. 

Bar'wa Nayika Bhed (No. 2), 466. 

Bar'we Eamayan, 128, 638. 

Basant, 13. 

Basant FacMsi, 694. 

Bedarari Katlia, 638. 

Beni Sagghar, 706. 

Bhabamaiimna, 736. 

Bhagavad, 629. 

Bhagavad Grita (quoted in Rag), 638. 

BMgavat (No. 1), 319. 

Bhagavat (No. 2), 629. 

Bhagavata Parana, 17, 34, 37, 40, 

105, 135, 632, 614, 629, 638, 797, 

869. 
Bhag'bati Binay, 695. 
Bhajan Granth, 321. 
Bhakha Amar Kos, 638. 
Bhakha BMkhan, 149, 377, 672, 

680, 635, 636, 638, 660, 761. 
Bhakha Baidak, 638. 
Bhakha Chhand, 638. 
Bhakha Chandroday, 489. 
Bhakha Indrajal, 638. 
Bhakha Eayada, 638. 
Bhakha Kokh, 638. 
Bhakha Piggal, 638. 
Bhakha Eaj'niti, 674. 
Bhakha Eamayan, 739. 
Bhakha Sabar, 638. 
Bhakha Eitupasagghar, 210. 
Bhakha Sar, 616, 731. 
Bhakha Saibidar'j Lah'ri, 684. 
Bhakt Mai Pradipan, 61. 
Bhakt Mala, 36, 37, 44, 45, 61, 57, 

67, 128, 319, 322, 638, 640, 806. 
Bhakt Sindhu, 128. 
Bbakt TJrbasi, 61, 322. 
Bhakti Bhaw, 607. 
Bharat Durdasa, 706. 



Bharat Janani, 706. 
Bharat Saabhagya, 704, 706. 
Bharati Bhukhan, 680. 
Bhar'thari Gan, 638. 
Bhar'thari Shatak, 604. 
Bhartrihari ^ataka, 604, 880. 
Bhasa Praka^a, 678, 
Bhaw Bilas, 140. 
Bhawani Chhand, 166. 
BhawarSawar, 486. 
Bhoj Bhukhan, 619. 
Bhramar-git, 804, 806. 
Bhrityahari Sat, 880. 
BhugolBrittant, 638. 
Bhugol Hastamalak, 699. 
Bhukhan Hajara, 146. 
Bhukhan Kaamudi, 735. 
Bhukhan Ullas, 146. 
Bhup-bhukhan, 116. 
Bichar Mala, 287. 
Bidur Prajagar, 674. 
Bidwan Mod Taraggini, chap. X, 

introd., 689, 690. 
~ Bidyabhyas ka Phal, 638. 
Bidya Sundar, 706. 
Bidyagkur, 699. 
Bigyan Bibhakar, 706. 
Bigyan Gita, 134. 
Bigyan Bilas, 320. 
Bigyarthakaomudi, 149. 
Bija Bilas, chap. IX, introd., 37. 
Bija Muktabali, 75, 664. 
Bijak, 13, 14, 629, 638. 
Bikram Biradabali, 614. 
Bikram Sat Saa, 614. 
Bikh Parichha, 638. 
Binay Pachisi, 638. 
Binay Pattrika, 128, 529, 638, 643, 

894. 
Binayamrit, 669. 
Bir Siggh ka Brittant, 699. 
Bir'bar Nama, 106. 
Bishnu Bilas, 202. 
Bishnu Pad, 34. 
Brahm Bilas, 497. 
Brahmottarakhanda, 361, 595, 658. 



INDEX OF WOEKS, 



XXIU 



Braj Bilas, 369, 638. 

Braj Jatra, 638. 

BrihachchMTapurana, 695, 619. ■ 

Brihad Bilmayan Mabatmya, 128. 

Brihat Kabi-ballabh, 939. 

Briudabau Sat, 638. 

Biitt Bichar, 160. 

Brittahar, 686. 

Britt-Bhaskar, 373. 

Brittya Binod, «01. 

Buddh Sagar, 169. 

Burh Muh Muhase, Log Chale 

Tamase, 706. 
Byangya Satak, 432. 
^abda-Ealpadruma, 638. 
^akuntala, 198, 706. 
^aijkara DigTijaya, 687. 
^aiggadhara Faddhati, 8. 
Chachohhu Dan, 706. 
Chakabynb, 490. 
Cbamatkar Chandiika, 761. 
Chaucbar, 13. 
Chandan Sat Sm, '374. 
Chandra Prabodh, 486. 
Chandrabali, 706. 
Cliandraloka, 377. 
Chandrast, 681. 
Chandroday, 334. 
Chandr' Sen. 706. 
Char Dar'wesh, 638. 
'ChaSpai Bamayau, 128. 
ChaHrasi Barta, 37. 
Ch^tisa, 13. 
Chet-Chandrika, 664. 
Chhand Chhappani, 477. 
Chhand Bichar, 160. 
Chhand Fayonidhi, 943. 
Chhand Sar (No. 1), 61. 
Chhand Sar (No. 2), 146. 
Chhand Sar (No. 3), 830. 
Chhand Sriggar, 340, 
Chhand SwArupini, 942. 
Chhand-bichar, 143. 
Chhandanand, 693. 
Chhandarnab, 344. 
Chhota Bhugol Hastamalak, 699. 



Chhota Jam-i-Jaban Numa, 699. 

ChbappS Bamayan, 128. 

Cbhattra Paf'kas^ 197, 202, 638. 

Chit Bilas, 768. 

Chitra-bhukhan, 649. 

Cbitrakaladbar, 694. 

^iva Furana, 621. 

Dadu ki Bani, 163. 

Dadu FantM Granth, 163. 

Daktari, 638. 

Dan lala (No. 1), 42. 

Dan-Lila (No, 2), 220. 

DanaTakyavali, 17. 

Das Fadshah ka granth, 169. 

Dasabatar, 680. 

Dasam Iskandb (Fothi), cf. Dasam 

Skandh,629. 
Dasam Skandh, cf , Dasam Iskandb. 

42, 629. 
Das'ratb Bay, 160. 
Day a Bilas, 638. 
Deb Furukh Drishya; 706. 
Deb-maya Frapanch, 140, 706. 
Debi-cbaritr' Saroj, 604. 
Dbananjay Bijay, 706. 
Dharma-tattwasar, 639. 
Dbyan Chintamani, 910. 
Dhyan Mafijari, 638. 
Dig-bijS Bbnkban, 694. 
Dil Bab'Iao, 699. 
Dip-Malika Charitr', 220. 
Doha Bamayan, 128. 
Dobabali (of Tul'si .Das), 128, 638. 
Dohabali (of Umapati Tripathi), 

691. 
Dobabali (of Jugnl Far'sad), 829. 
Drisht Kut (emblematic verses) by 

Stir Das, 37, 671. 
Dukban TJllas, 145. 
Dukkbini Bala, 706. 
Dunnallan, 699. 
Durgabhakti Taraggini, 17. 
Durlabh Bandhu, 706. 
Due Bilas, 697. 
Duti Dar'pan, 694. 
Farsi Sarf-o-Nahw, 699, 

N 2 



XXXV 



INDEX OF W0UK3. 



Gane^a Puraiia, 30. 
Gagga Bhukhan, 697. 
Gai|ga Lahari, 506. 
Ganitat)k, 638. 
Gaj Siggh Bilas, 812. 
Gar'bhabaU Eamayan, 638. 
GaBri Parinay, 706. 
Gaya Fattana, 17. 
Ghazals (of Saada), 638. 
Gita Govinda, 19, 20, 31, 42, 912. 
Gitabali, 128, j638. 
Git'gdbindadarsliau, 912. 
,G6 Sagkat, 706. ^ 
Gobind Sukhad Bihar, 564. 
Gopachalakatha, 865. 
Gopal Fachisi, 531. 
Gopi Chand Gan, 638. 
Gopi Pachisi, 507. 
Gorakh Machhendr' Satnaj, 638. 
Gorakb Nath ki Goshthi, 13. 
Gosai Charitr', 128, 130. 
Granth, 13, 22, 638, 767. 
Granth Sahib, 169. 
GrihChandi, 706. 
Gulab aSc Chameli ki Qissa, 699. 
■Gulzar-Bihar, 17. 
Guru Nyas, 321. 
Guru Katha, 373. 
Gut'ka, 699. 

Gyan-chiiran Baohanika, 888, 
Gyan Ddhabali, 731. 
Gyan Par'kas, 333. 
Gyan.Samudra, 143. 
Gyan Sarobar, 798. 
Gyan Swaroday, 23. 
Gyan Upades, 638. 
Hajara!, chap. X, introd., 169, 334, 

358. 
Hammira Charitra, 8. 
Hammir Kabya, 6, 8. 
Hammir Easa, 8. 
Hammir Eay'sa, 6> 8. 
Hanuman Bahuk, 128, 638. 
Hanuman Nataka, 173, 693. 
Hanuman Natak, 638. 
Hanuman Nakh'sikh, 170. 



Hanumat Bhukhan, 671. 
Hatiumat Chhabisi, 584. 
Har Mala of Nar'si, 638. 
Harawati, 830. 
Hari NamabaH, 526. 
Haribans, 360. 
Haribans Dar'pan, 564. 
Harishchandrika, 581. 
Harishchandra Chandrika, 37«. 
Harishchandra Eala, 681, 706n. 
Harivaifafa, 360, 716. 
Hasya Eas, 610. 
Hatam Tai, 638. 
Hikayatu'I Salihat, 699. 
Hindi; fiyakaran, 699. 
Hi^dol, 13. 
Hira Eafijha, 638. 
Hit ChaSrasi Dham, 56. 
Hit Taraggim, 797. 
Hitopade^a, 51, 629. 
Hitopades, 638. 
Hdli,13. 

Holi Ehages, 706. 
Huqaiqu'l Maajudat, 699. 
Ishk Mahotsab, 669. 
= Itihas Timir Nashak, 699. 
Jag Mohan, 659. 
Jagad Binod, 606, 638. 
Jagat Bilas, 184. 
Jai Chandra Prakas, 6. 
JS Deb Bilas; 188. 
JS Nar'siggh ki, 706. 
3sa. Siggh Kalpadrum, 335. 
Jaiminiya Sutra Bhasya, 34. 
JSsa Earn WSsa Parinam, 706. 
Jam-i-Jahan I^uma, 699. 
Jamuna Lahari, 607. 
Jamuua Satak, 420 
Janaki Maggal (No. 1), 138. 
Janaki Maggal (No. 2), 705, 706. 
Janjiraband, 169. 
Jawahir Eatuakar, 485. 
Jhul'na, 13. 

Jhui'na Earaayan, 138. , 
Jog Tattwa, 261. 
Jukti Eamayan, 677, 678, 



INDEX OF WOEKS. 



XXV 



Eabi Bachau Sudha, 681. 

Kabi.Binod, 156, 167. 

Eabi-knl Ealpa-taru, 143. 

Eabi-kul Eanthabbaran, 368. 

Kabi-mala, 163. 

Eabi-neh, 672. 

Kabi.priya, 134, 137,671,672, 638, 

678,761. ' 
Kabi-Priyabharan, 7pl. 
Eabi Eatuakar, 698. 
Kabir Panji, 13. 
Kabindra-kalpa-Iata, 161. 
Kabitt" Akali, 701. 
Kabitta Eamayan, 128, 638. 
Eabittabali, 128. - 
Kabya Bhukhan, 628. 
Kabya-bibek, J. 43. 
Eabya Bilas, 149. 
Eabya Ealpadrum (No. 1), 160. 
Kabya Kalpadrum (No. 2), 165. 
Kabya Kalpadrum (No. 3), 618. 
Eabya Ealadhar, 669. 
Eabya Nirali, 147. 
Kabya-nir'nay, 314. 
Kabya-par'kas, 143. , 
Eabya-rasayan, 140. 
Eabya Batnakar, 735. 
Kabya Saggrah, 696. 
Eabya Saroj, 1£0. 
Eabya Siromani, 618. 
Eabyabharan, 374. 
EalaNidhi. 349. 
Kalidas Haiaia, chap. X, introd., 

169, 334, 358. 
Eallol Taraggim, 374. 
Eanar'pi Ghat Larai, 363. 
Kar'ka Eamayan, 128. 
Karnabharan, 116. 
Karpur Manjari, 706. 
Kashi ka Chhaya-chittra, 6^1. 
Kashmir Kusum, 681. 
Kasi Khand, 638. 
Ksatuk Eatnabali, 638. 
Kajasth-dhar'm Dar'pan, 902. 
Kayastha-kula Bhaskara, 902. 
Kesari Par'kas, 374. 



Keto Kritant, 706. 

Ehas Granth, 13. 

Khas'ra, 13. 

Khat Ritu (No. 1), 210, 638. 

Khat Eitu (No. 2), 479, 638. 

Ehat Eitu (No. 3), 638, 648. 

Ehuman Eay'oa, 2. 

Khyat, 76. 

Kishdr Sazjgrah, 348. 

Kitab-i-Mahabharata, 664. 

Eok Sar, 347, 638. 

Krish'n Chandrika (No. 1), 349. 

Krish'n Chandrika (No. 2), 395. 

Krish'n-Charitamrit, 373. 

Krish'n Datt' Bhukhan, 606. 

Krish'n Gitabali, 638. 

Krish'n Kallol, 372, 629. 

Krishnabali, 128, 638. 

Krisna Khanda, 372, 684. 

Kuehh Bayan ap'ni Zuban ki, 699. 

Kumar Pal Charitra, 4. 

Kuijdaliya of Giri Dhar, 345. 

Kundaliya Eamayan, 128. 

Lachhman Satak, 170. 

Laghu Bhukhan Alagkar, 697. 

Lai Chandrika (No. 1), 661. 

Lai Chandrika (No. 2), 629. 

Lalit Lalam, 146. 

Lalita Natika, 706. 

Lao Granth, 321. 

Latmf-i-Hindi, 629. 

Law Granth, 321. 

Lilavafi, 638, 912. 

Lovers, work on, meaning of term, 
87« ; see Nos. 87, 142, 146, 147. 
202, 247, 250, 300, 308, 366, 377, 
446, 461, 465, 627, 536, 661, 608, 
618, 660, 668, 715, 723, 791, 808, 
810, 8S5 ; see also Nakh'sikh. 

Luna Chamari ka Mantr', quoted 
in Eag, 638. 

Ma^ardir-i-Bhakha, 629. 

Madhab Bilas (No. 1), 629, 638. 

Madhab Bilas (No. 2), 638, 896. 

Madhab Sulochana, 797. 

Madhabanal, 629. 

N 3 



XXVI 



INDEX OF WOEKS. 



Madhavanala (No. 1), 629. 

Madhavanala (No. 2), 872. 

Madhonal (No. 1), 216. 

Madhonal (No. 2), 629. 

Madhonal (No. 3), 872. 

Madiio Bilas, (629, 896), 638. 

Madhu Priya, 510. 

Ma(|hTimati, 704. 

Madhuri, 706. 

Maha B»a, 706. 

Mahabharata, chap. X, introd., 76, 
210, 659, 564, 666, 607, 638. 

Mahabharat Dar'pan, 664. 

Maha-par'lS, 323. 

Mahoha JEhand of Prithwi Eaj 
Eay'sa, 6, 7. 

Man Charitr', 109. 

Man lala, 42. 

Man Manjari, 638. 

Manas Ehukhan, 571. 

Manas Sarjkabali, 676. 

Manara Dharmasar, 699. 

Maggal, 13. 

Manik-bodh, 891. 

Manoj Latika, 604. 

Mauoranjan Itihas, 638. 

Mazamin, 699. 

Miqra'atu'l-kahilin, 699. 

Misar Sriijgar, 331. 

Mitra Manohar, 574. 

Moohh Panth, 486. 

Mrichchhakatika, 706. 

Mudra Eachhas, 706. 

Muhurta Chintamani, 366. 

Mnkti-Muktabali, 703. 

Nab Mallika, 706. 

Nahukh Natak, 706. 

Nmn Fachasa, 154. 

Nmn Sukh, quoted in Eag, 638. 

Nmsadha, 349. 

Nakh'sikh, 87«, 135, 140, 141, 149, 
326, 404, 419, 432, 452, 479, 494, 
607^ 510, 633, 667, 630, 633, 637, 
644, 648, 665, 660, 673, 730, 848, 
889, 892 ; see also Lovers, works 
on. 



Nala and Damayanii, 37. 

Nalodaya, 128. 

Nam Mala (No.' 1), 42, 638. 

Nam Mala (No. 2), 433, 638. 

Nam'ketopakhyan, 245. 

Nam Eamayan, 626. 

Narind Bhukhan, 94&. 

Natak, 706 («). 

Nayak Bhed, 87n; see Lovers, 

works on. 
Nayika £hed, S7«, 446, 466; see 

Lovers, works on. 
Nazir ki ShSr, 171. 
NilDebi, 706. 
Nir'nay Mafijari, 680. 
Niti-bilas, 696. 
Niti Katha, 638. 
Nritya Eaghab Milan, 909. 
Pachchhi Bilas, 630. 
Pad Bilas, 373. 
PadkiPothi, 376. 
Padmawat, 31, 638. 
Padmawati, 706. 
Fadminl Eatha, 638. 
Pakhand Biramban, 703. 
Panch Eatan, 128, 638. 
Panchadhyayi, 42. 
Panchanaliya, 349. 
PandavS ke Tajfia, 832. 
Parbat! Maggal, 128. 
Parijat Haran, 706. 
Par's! Par'kas,'174. 
Pathik-bodh, 374. 
Phajil All Par'kas, 160. 
Phar'makopiya, 638. 
Phate Par'kas, 165. 
Fhateshah Bhukhan, 165. 
Piggal, 141, 638. 
Pothi Bhagavat, 629. 
Pothi Dasam Iskaudh, 629. 
Pothi lok ukat ras jagtit, 758. 
PotU Shah Muhammad Shahl, 356. 
Prabhavati Harana, 641, 706. 
PrabhawatJ, 706. 
Prabodha Chandrodaya, 369, 638, 

706. 



INDEX OF WOEKS. 



xxvu 



Prabandh Ghat'na, 216. 

PraMad Charitr', 686. 

Frasiddh. MahatinaD ka JIban 

Charitr', 34», 37«, 569. 581. 
Prastar Prabhakar, 901. 
Pratham Granth (of Jag Jiban 

Das), 323. 
Prem Dipika (No. 1), 140. 
Prem Dipika (No. 2), 616. 
Prem Jogiiu, 706. 
Prem Payonidhi, 407. 
Prem Eatna, 376. 
Prem Eatnakar (No. 1), 212. 
Prem Eatnakar (No. -2), 1^ Add., 

344. 
Prem Sagar, 40, 629, 638. 
Prem Sattwa Nirup, 806. 
Prem Sumarg, 169 . 
Prem Tarai)g, 140. 
Prithi Eaj Eay'sa, 6, 638. 
Purana, 128. 
Puruaa Pariksa, 17. 
Qissa-i-Sandford-o-Merton, 699. 
Qiyamat Nama, 167. 
Eadba Bhukhan, 639. 
Eadba Madhab, 706. 
Eadba Satak, 664. 
Eadba Sudhauidhi, 56. 
Badbika-bilas, 140. 
Eag Gobind, 20. 
Eag-£alpadram, 638. 
Eag Mala (No. 1),400, 638. 
Eag Mala (No. 2), 904, 638. 
Eag-Sagarodbbab Eag-Ealpadrum, 

cbap. X, introd., 34, 36, 36, 638. 
Bag^Sagarodbhab, 34, 35, 36. 
Eagbubir Dbyauabali, 695. 
Eaghu-raj Ghanachhari, 373. 
BaghuTaih(;a, 128, 592. 
Eaj Deb Bilas, 186. 
Eaj Eatnakar, 187. 
Eaj Par'kas, 185. 
Eaj Pattana, 189. 
Eaj Eupakaktyat, 195. 
Eaja Bhar'tbari Gan, 638. 
Eaja Bhoj ka Sap'na, 699. 



Eajaniti (of Chanakya), 51, 674, 
629, 840, 919. 

Eaj'niti, 629, 638. 

Eam-alagkrit-manjari, 134. 

Earn Bilas (No. 1), 357, 366. 

Eam Bilas (No. 2), 712. 

Eam Bhukhan, 27. 

Eam Binod, 638. 

Eam-cbandrika, 134, 677, 578, 638. 

Earn Charan Chinh, 638. 

Eam-Charit-Manas, 128. 

Eam Charitr', 172. 

Eam-Git Mala, 373. 

Earn Kabittabali (of Ajodhya 
Par'sad Baj'peyi), 693. 

Earn Kalewa, 624. 

Earn Eatha, 705. 

Earn Krish'n Gim-Mal, 697. 

Earn Lala kar Nah'ohhu, 128. 

Earn Lila, 706. 

Earn Naba-ratan, 695. 

Eam-nibas Eamayan, 695. 

Earn Eaban ka juddh, 895. 

Eam-rahasya Eamayan, 858. 

Eam Eatnakar, 373. 

Earn Saguoaball, 128. 

Ea^ Salaka, 128, 638. 

Eam Sat Sai, 128, 638. 

Bam Tattwa Bodhani, 643. 

Eamafvamedha, 476. 

Eam rani, 13. 

Eamal Bhakha, 488. 

Bamal Prashna, 691. 

EamanandBihar, 696. 

Eamanaud ki Goshthi, 13. 

Bamaspad, 373. 

Eamayan, versions of, p. 57. 

Eamayan (of Tul'si Das), 128, 

676, 638. 
Eamayan (of Chintamani Tripa- 

thi), 143. 
Eamayan (of Bhag'want- Eay), 

333. 
Eamayan (of Gulab Siggh), 486.' 
Eamayan (of Gaj'raj Upadhya), 
685. 

N 4 



XXVUl 



INDEX OF WOEKS. 



Eamayan (of Sahaj Earn), 592. 
Eahiayan (of Sagkar Tripathi), 

613. 
Eamayan (of Chandr' Jha), 702. 
Eamayau (of Samar Siggh), 725. 
Eamayan, Abhas E„ 638. 

Bar' we E., 128, 638. 

BliakhaE.,739. 

ChaSpai E., 128. 

ClihappS E., 128. 

Doha E., 128. 

Gar'bhabali B., 638. 

Jhul'na E., 128. 

Jukti E., 677, 578. 

Eabitta E., 128. 

Kai'ka R., 128. 

Eundaliya E., 128. 

Nam E., 626. 

Earn Bilas E., 357. 

Ram Nibas E., 695. 

Ram Eahasya R. , 868. 

Rola R., 128. 

Slokabali E., 638. 
Ramayan Mahatmya (Brihad), 
' 128. 

Ramayan Paricharya, 569. 
Eamayana, chap. X, introd., 128, 

172, 712. 
Ran Dhir Prem Mohim, 706. 
Eas Bilas (No. 1), 140. 
Eas Bilas (No. 2), 154. 
Eas Bil^s (No. 3), 519. 
Eas-chandrika, 138, 334. 
Eas-chandroday (No. 1), 334. 
Eas-chandroday (No. 2), 670, 573. 
Eas-dar'pan, 730. 
Bas-dip, 496. 
Eas Kallol (No. 1), 338. 
Eas Kallol (No. 2), 504. 
Kas Eaumudi, 546. 
Eas ke pad, 59. 
Eas Nidhi, 431. 
Eas Panchadhyayi (? 42), quoted 

in Rag, 638. 
Eas Par'bodh (No. 1), 754. 
Eas Par'badh (No. 2), 934. 



Eas Eahasya, 633. 

Eas Raj, 146, 638, 894, 926. 

Eas Ranjan, l62. 

Eas Eatnabali, 164. 

Eas Ratnakar, 697. 

Eas-sarans, 344. 

Eas Taraggini, 338. 

Rasamafijari, 166, 689. 

Easanand-lahari, 140. 

Easar'nab, 356, 638. 

Easataraggini, 689. 

Easik Bilas (No. 1), 158. 

Easik Bilas (No. 2), 339. 

Easik Mohan, 559. 

Easik-priya, 134, 326, 394, 421, 

571, 576, 638, 
Easik-rasal, 437. 
Eatan IVTala, 932. 
Eati-binod, 334. 
Eatnabali (of Umapati Tripathi), 

691. 
Ratnavali (the play), 31. 
Eay'sa Eaw Eatan, 207. 
Eekhta, 13. 
Eitupasagghar, 210. 
Eogantak Sar, 638. 
Eola Ramayan, 128. 
Enkmini Maggal,>42, 638. 

Rukmini Swayambar, 706. 
Eup Bilas. (No. 1), 603. 
Eup Bilas (No. 2), 509. 

Sabads (of Dulha Ram), 324. 

Sabdabali (of Eabir), 13. 

Sabdabali (of Sib Narayan), 321. 

Sabha Bilas, 629, 638. 

SachcM Bahadurj, 699. 

Sadharan Siddhant, 69. 

Sahitya Baasidhar, 574. 

Sahitya BMkhan, 347. 

Sahitya Chaudrika, 346. 

Sahitya Dar'pan, 607. 

Sahitya Dukhan, 607. 

Sahitya Eas, 604. 

Sahitya Sarasi, 571. 

Sahitya Sudha.nidhi, 340. 

Sahitya Sudhasagar, 693. 



INDEX OF W0EK8. 



JtXlX 



8aiiad;Sumbul, 706. 
Sakhis (of Kabir), 13. 
Sakhis (of Dalha Earn). 324. 
Sakuntala (No*. 1), 639. 
Saknntala (No. 2), 706. 
Salihotr', 350, 365, 377, 469, 638, 

667, 864, 914, 949. 
Salil, 349. 
Samara Sara, 364. 
Samay-bddh, 328. 
Samay-ogh, 338. 
Samudrika, 638. , 
Sandford aar Merton ki kahani, 

699.. 
Saggita Darpana, 638. 
Saggita Batnakara', 638. 
Saggit Pachisi, 638. 
Sar)sit Sar, 60, 638. 
Sagkat Mochan, 128. 
Santachan, 321. 
Sant Bilas, 321. 
Sant Mahima, 321. 
Santopades, 321. 
Sant Par' wan, 321. 
Sant Sagar, 321. . 
Sant Sundar, 321. 
Saraijg Dhar Faddhati, 8. 
Saras Eas, 326, 638. 
Sarb Lob Par'kas, 169. 
Sarf-o-nahw-i-tJrdu, 699. 
Sarmisbtha, 706.'' 
Sarojini, 706. 

Sarpadi Jantun ki Fothi, 638. 
SarTasaijgraba, 629. 
Sat-kabi-gira Bilas, 3^9. 
Sat Sai (of Bihari), 196, 213, 214, 

215, 326, 327, 346, 397, 409. 421, 

559, 661, 562, 571, 629, 638, 811, 

907. . 
Sat Sai (of Bikram), 614. 
Sat Sai (of Chandan), 374. 
Sat Sai (of Tul'si), 128, 740. 
Sati Pratap, 706. 
Satya Harishchandr", 706. 
Shad Nama, 695. 
Shah Nama, 698. 



Shahadat-i-Qurani bar Kutub-i- 

Eabbani, 6S9. 
Shmrs of Mannu Lai, 583, 599, 638. 
Shrars (of Nazir), 171, 638. 
Sham'shad Sansan, 706. 
Shri Harishchandra Kala, 581, 

706(«). 
Sib ChaHpai, 758. 
Sib Eaj Bhukhan, 145. 
Sib-Sagar, 933. 

Sib Siggh Saroj (No. 1), 159, 595. 
Sib Sii)gh Sard] (No. 2), 723. 
Sib Swaroday, 638. 
Sikhs ka Tulu' aSr Ghnrub, 699. 
SikhS ka TJday Asi, 699. 
Sigghasan Battisi, 142, 629, 633. 
Sisu Bodh, 638. 
Sldkabali Eamayan, 638. 
Sneh Sagar, 638. 
Sri Bhagawat, 332, 629. 
Sri Bhagawat Dasam Iskandh, 

629. 
Sri Krish'nabali. 128, 638. 
Sriggar D5ha, 507. 
Sriggar Kabitta, 607. 
Sriggar L'atika, 599. 
Sriggar Nab Eas, 647. 
Sriggar-nir'nay, 344. 
Sriggar Eatnabali, 375. 
Sriggar Eatnakar, 611. 
Sriggar. Saggrah, 571. 
Sriggar Sar, 374. 
Sriggar Sarabali, 627. 
Sriggar S^rabh, 445. 
Sriggar Siromani, 377. 
Sriggar Sudhakar, 715. 
Sripal Charitr', 855. 
Sripati Saroj, 150. 
Sri Earn Agya, 128. 
Sruti-bhukhan, 115. 
Stri Sichchha Bidhayak, 638. 
Subodhani, 34. 
Subodhini, 34». 
Sudama Charitr', 33, 638. 
Sudha Nidhi, 432. 
Suga.Babattari, 638. 



XXX 



^NDEX OF WOBES. 



Sujan Binod, 140. 
Sujan Sagar, 347. 
Sukh Nidhan, 13, 15. 
Sumil Binod, 140. 
Sundar Bidya, 142. 
- Sundar Sagkhya, 163, 164. 
Sundar Satak, 632. 
Sundar Srii)garj 142. 
Sundarl Tilak, chap. X, introd., 

581. 
Sundari-Tilak-Nafliabali, 681, ^83. 
Sunlsar, 634. 
Snnlti -Par'kas, 169. 
Sur Sagar, 37, 638. 
Sur Sagar (in comic style), 306. 
Surya Par'kas, 370. 
Swami Earttikeyanupreksa, 628. 
Swaroday, 309. 



Swayambodh Urdu, 699. 

Tapta Sambaran, 706. 

Tarikh-i-Ealisa, 699. 

Tridipi 604. 

Tul'si Bhukhan, 671. 

Tul'si-krit Bamayan, 128. 

Tul'si Sabdar'th Prakas, 36, 819, 

Ukha Haran, 642, 706. 

Upafiisad, 128. 

Upa'des Katha, 638. 

TJp'sat'sSya, 811. 

ITsa Harana, 642, 706. 

Veda, 128. 

Vetala PanchaTiifajatika, 326, 366, 

Vivada Sara, 17. 

Visasya YisamaSsadham, 706. 

Waqi'at-i-Babarx, 108. 

Wenis ka SaiSdagar, 706. 



INDEX. 



XXXI 



INDEX No. III. 



NAMES OF PLACES. 



Ag'ra, 37, 171, 326. 
Ak'bar'pur, 10^. 
Ahawanadi Koliya, 711. 
Atmadabad, 163, 639, 699, 896. 
/ - Agmgarli, 541, 653. 
Aj'gai^a, 731. 
Ij'mer, 163, 334. 
Ajodhya, 34, 128, 691, 692. 
Aliganj, 669, 717, 718. 
Aligarh, 634. 
Allahabad, 128, 706. 
Al'war, 8, 9, 60l. 
Amar'k6t,.113. 
Am'dabad, 635, 636. 
Amer^ 44, 106, 109, 114, 196, 325, 

330. i ,- 

Ametbi, 31, 160, 209, 332, 334, 359, 

589, 604. ' 

Anand'pur, 169. 
An'hal, 4. 
ArVal, 344. 
Asi, 128. 

As'ni, 92, 113, 114, lie, 173, 247, 934. 
Asothar, 333—339, 341—343, 644 
Audh, chap. X, introd., 31, 105, 

333, 351, 356, 364, 365,^ 570, 

693, 594, 599—603,624, 691, 732. 
izam'garh, 906. • 
Baohbil Titauli, 614. ,/ . 
Btder, 489. 
Bagherkhand, chap. X, introd., 

369, 628, 529, 531, 532. 
ESg'malial, 503. 
Bahiraich, 160, 605. 606, 615. 
;Bais'wara, 364, 365, 372, 461, 490, 

607, 619, 62i; 708, 732. 
Ba,liram'pur, 596, 694. 



Bauaras, chap. X, introd., 13, 16, 

34, 113, 128, 151, 256, 280, 365, 

376, 559—688, 691, 699, 704— 

706, 796. 
Banda, 128, 502, 506, 612, 527, 534, 

638, 639, 546. 
Bandho (= EiwS), 12, 24, 60, 93, 

113, 114, 628—532, 629, 706. 
Bandhua,' 686. 
BagHpur, 31, 633. 
Ban'pura, 169, 176, 334, 358. 
B'arp,bagki, 126, 323, 373, 483, 497, 

696, 723—727, 798, 902. 
Bar'dhana, 463. 
Bari, 33. 

Bar'sana, 66, 942. 
BSsiraj, 30. 
B^ri, 615. 
Bazit'pur,^ 17. 

Bga, 113, 334, 484, 611, 720. 
Betiya, 34. 
Bhagal'pur, 128. 
Bharat'pur, 699. 
Bhataiili, 626. 
Bhatipura, 7. 
BhaBgaw, 57. 
Bhin'ga^ 340, 605,606. 
Bhog SSri, 443, 447. 
Bhiipa, 542. 
Bhupal, 158, 213, 214. 
Bigah'ptiT, 689, 801. 
Bihar, 34, 706. 
Bijranagar, 34. 

Bijaur or Bijawar, 8, 106, 894. 
Bikaner, 6, 73. 
Bil'gram, 94, 179, 209, 401, 435, 

439, 444, 448, 485, 730, 754. 



xxxu 



INDEX OF PLACES. 



Bilhari, 629. 

Binduki, 472. 

Birapur, 727. 

Bisapl, 17. 

Bis' phi, 17. 

Bis'wS, 613. 

Braj, 25, 34—39, 43,45, 48—52, 55, 
59, 61-69, 84, 87, 93, 165, 172, 
196, 226, 227, 437, 664, 763, 768, 
773, 774, 819, 942, 943. 

Brijhasir, 168. 

Brindaban, 20, 54, 59, 61, 64, 128, 
165, 218, 319, 347, 369, 722, 943. 

Eunderkhaud, chap. X, introd., 7, 
31», 54; 103, 134—137, 149, 
162, 154, 155, 167, 170, 19T, 
200—205, 212, 300, 308, 319 
342, 344, 346, 880, 383, 393, 
407, 410, 411, 413, 420, 425, 
426, 428, 453, 456, 458, 464, 467, 
492, 496, 501, 504, 509—511, 
513, 514, 517—622, 525, 533, 
635—537, 540—557, 670, 629, 
733, 734, 878, 922, 926. 

Bundi, chap. IX, introd., 146, 330, 
334. 

Bur'han'pnr, 70. 

Calcutta, 17. ' 

Chacheri, 446. 

Chaked'wa, 5. 

Chakr'pnr, 677. 

Champarau, 34, 699, 

Chandapur, 693, 709, 

Chandawan, 321. 

Chand'garh, 210. 

Char'khari, chap. X, introd., 149, 
170, 204, 359», 508, 509, 513, 
514, 517—522, 524, 525, 537, 543. 

Chsahattari, 729. 

Chaajit'pur, 551. 

Chaara, 34. * 

ChaHragiw, 559, 564. 

Chhattr"pur, 173, 556. 

Chinta Ehera, 617. 

ChitaHr, 2, 20, 21, 31. L> 

Chitrakut, 128. ' 



Dal'mau, 100, 103, 612, 623, 707. 
Pnm'rSw, 643. 

Dar'bhagga, 17, 360, 362, 363, 641, 
642,702. ' 

f 

Dasapur, 715. 
Datiya, 926. 

DaSlatpur, 335, 356, 357. 
D^riya Khera, 356, 364, 365, 

478. 
Deckan, 34, 37, 51. 
Deutaha, 339, 340. 
Dewaranagar, 359. 
DhanaSli, 373, 
Dharpur, 202. 
Dilli, 4, 17, 37, 113, 128, 347, 362, 

395, 433, 699. 
Doab, 87, 132, 159, 176, 292, 311, 

315, 334, 335, 345, 358, 442, 675. 
Dwarika, 20. 
Ek'naiir, 119. 
Ekaaua, 615. 

Fmzabad, 53, 626,691, 692. 
Farukhabad, 589. 
Fatihgarh, 6, 7. 
Fatih'pur, 92, 113, 114, 116, 173, 

247, 333, 335—339, 3^1—343, 

472, 644, 658, 679, 692, 934. 
Fatuhabad, 596. 
Gal'ta, 44, 51. 
GandhaHlJ, 697. 
Ganes'pur, 902. 
Ganges, 128. 
Gau Ghat, 37. 
GMr, 160, 374, 
Gaya, 34, 633. 
Ghanaoli, 696. 
Ghazipur, 321,, 895. 
Gobardhan, 34. 
Gochi Amethi, 604. 
Gsda, 130, 339, 340, 596, 694. 
Gokul, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 62, 437- 
Gokul'kunda, 159. 
Gola Gokarannath, 652. 
Gop'chal, 37, 112. 
Guj'rat, 28, 355, 629, 912. 
Gur Gaw, 798. 



INPEX OP FIACES. 



XXXUl 



Gwaliyar, 37, 60, 71, 143, 170, 220, 

678, 865. 
Hajipur, 128. 
Hamir'piir, 106, 379. 
Har'dhaHr'pur, 679. 
Har'doi, 67. 85, 89, 94, 179, 209, 
349, 431, 435, 439, 443, 444, M7, 
448, 471, 485, 609, 730, 764. 
Har'ha, 725. 
HastinapuT, 128. 
Hathiya, 715. 
Hith'ras, 634, 684. 
Himalaya, 128. 

Hindustan, 128. * 

Horpur, 126, 483, 723, 724. 
Itawt, 119, 210. 
Ita, 669. 

Ishtakapuri, 476. 
Isanagar, 714, 716. 
Idar, 809. 
JagaDna.th,'34. 
Jahanabad, 341. 
Jahangirabad Sehada, 203. 
Jfflpiir, chap, IX, introd., 8,, 44, 
180, 327, 328, 602, 606, 628, 660, 
699, 758, 803. 
JSt'pur, 154, 648. 
Jaj'mau, 473. 
Jalann, 549. 
Jamba, 169. 
Jam'sam, 360. 
Jamuna, 128. 
JMn'pur, 680. 
JaShari Hatb'ras, 684. 
Jayas, 31. 

Jhansi, 636, 636, 547, 655, 556, 733. 
Jodh'pur, 190, 191, 193, 193, 195, 

370, 371, 581, 786. 
Jobabenaka^, 695. 
Janagarh, 38. 
Jwala, 37. 
.Kadhala, 51, 322. 
KUtbal, 348. 
Eakupur, 454, 645. 
£alinjar, 538. 
Kal'pi, 3l», 106. 



Kalua, 351. 

Kambharner, 31. 

Kampila, 160, 161, 359, 661. 

Eampilanagar, 432. 

Kanwl, 363. 

Eaoar'pi Ghat, 362. 

KanaHj, 195, 217, 261, 377, 477, 
667, 883. 

Kanh'pur, 143, 144, 145, 146, 148. 
464, 608, 523, 524, 630—632, 
645, 676, 706. 

Kantha, 695, 728. 

Kara Manik'pur, 243 

EaroSli, 212. 

£ar'm'nasa, 17. 

Ear'nal, 348. 
. Kashmir, 63. 

Keh'ri, 963. 

Khajur'gaw, 621. 

Khambhat, 699. 

.£handasa, 905. 

Khiri, 351, 690, 614, 622, 714, 
716—718. 

Kishun'das'pur, 570. 

Kota, 127, 408. 

Kot'wa, 323. 

Kuruchhettr, 128. 

Kus'mara, ? 261. 

Lahar Tajao, 13. 

Lahar'pur, 105, 128 Add. 

Lahar'tara, 128 Add. 

Lahaar, 105. 

Lakh'nau, 37, 112, 460, 484, 57 J, 

598, 608, 612, 620, 627, 731. , 
Lakh'pura, 614. 
Madras, 34. 
Madhuban, 62. 
Mag'rauni, 363. 
Mahil, 374. 
Mahoba, 7, 533. 
Meanpuri, 140, 442, 665. 
Mak'rand'pur, 630, 631, 632. 
Malawa, 471. 
Malihabad, 138. 
Mandila, 516. 
Maro, 7. 



XXXlV 



INDEX OF PLACES. 



Mar'war, 76, 113, 149 Add., 190, 

191, 194, 196, 370, 871, 377, 

786,809. 
Mathura, 29, 37, 52, 128, 347, 507. 
Mau, 206. 

Mau Bampnra, 655, 656, 733. 
MaSrawa, 422, 618. 
Mer'ta, 20. 
Mewar, 2, 6, 21, 31, 47, 164., 183— 

189,671. ' 
Mirapur, 51, 639, 640. 
Mithila, 10, 20, 26, 108, 124, 362, 

363, 700, 702. 
Mohar, 668. 
Muradabad, 928. 
Muriya, 375. 
Murshidabad, 699, 912. 
MuzafEar'nagar, 322. 
Nagar, 912. 
Nag'pur, 143, 505, 506. 
Nagar'kot, 106. 
Nahil PuwawS, 374. 
Narmn, 163. 
NarSnapur, 797. 
Nar'mada, 128. 
Nar'naal, 106. 
Nar'wal, 659. 
NarVar, 453, 496.' 
NarVar Garh, 71. 
Nawarganj, 594. 
KigohS, 460. 
Nimar, 70. 
Niirn'rana, 8, 9. 
Nia'gar, 719. 
Nur'pur, 206. 
Pactarua, 497. 
Pfitepur, 592, 692. 
PMteya, 714. 
PaKya Shah'ganj, 600. 
PancliakTosh, 669, 564. 
Pandit'pur, 23. 
Pafijab, 128, 348, 832, 872. 
Pnrina (Par'na), chap. X, introd., 

145, 149, 152, 156, 167, 197, 198, 

201, 346, 502—604, 610, 511, 

544, 646. 



Par'na, see Fanua. 
Par'tap'gayh, 731. 
Par'yag'pur, 150. 
Pas'ka, 128, 130. 
Patiyala, 690, 788. 
Pat'na, 169, 705, 739, 787, 814. 
Patti,.'693. 
Phatnbabad, 596. 
Pihani, 67, 86, 89. 
Pir'nagar, 712. 
Prayag, 128. 
PaphaTatinagon, 629. 
. Purukhabad, 445. 
Purukhottam'puri, 128^ 
Eajatir'wa, 377. 
Raj'garh, 158, 213, 214, 654. - 
Baj'nagar, 657. 
Eaj[pur, 128. 
Eaj'putana, 163, 166, 186, 278, 389, 

489, 662, 799, 817, 820. " 
Eam'nagar, 669, 726. 
Bam'pur, 42. 

Ean'thambhor, 6, 8, 37» 37», 699. 
Basulabad, 736. 
Eat'lam, 207. 
Eay BargOi, 100, 103, 113,334, 356, 

484, 670, 611, 612, 616, 617, 623, 

693,695, 707, 719—722, 808. 
EiwS { = Bandho), chap. J[, introd., 

12, 24, 60, 92, 113, 114, 528—632, 

629,706. > 
Eukum'nagar, 469. 
Sabal'garh, 210. 
SSd'pur, 713. 
SamanegSw, 140. 
Sambhar, 163. 
Santhar, 526 
Sarhi, 508. 
Sari, 349. 
Satan'pur, 625. 
Satan'pur'wa, 693. 
Satawi, 616. 
Sathi, 676. 
Sem'raata, 722. 
Shah-Jahan-abad, 128. . 
Shah- Jahan-pur, 374, 375, 494. 



INDEX OF PLACES. 



xsxv 



ShaBbad, 643, 738. 

Sib'raj'pur, 454, 646. 

Sigfehal Dip, 31. 

Sigg'ra Mau, 736. 

Sir'maBr, 907. 

Sitapur, 33, 592, 697, 613, 697, 

710—716. 
Sitara, 146, 147. 
S.6r6, 128. 

Snnagar,,146, 165, 658. 
Sugaona, 17, 19. 
Sukar'khet, 128. 
Sul'tan'pur, 604. 
Sumenipurj 601. 
SupaiSlI, 697. 
Teh'ri, 134, 514. 



Tihar'na, 597. 

Titai, 721. 

T itari, 633. 

Tik'mapur, 143, 144, 145, U6, 148, 

623, 624. 
Til'wari, 22. 
Tir'hut, 701, 930. 
■ .Uch Gtw Bar'sana, 66 . 
Udapur, 20», 47, 183; 184, 186, 

188, 371. 
UjSn, 1, 629, 642. 
TJnao, 422, 473, 479, 689, 694, 695, 

601, 618, 728. 729, 801, 928, 
.tTniyara, 135, 377, 660. 
TJr'chha, 64, 134-137. 



- Bengal Secretariat Press— Eeg. JJJo. 4077J— 702— 24-7-89. 



