^  :> 


/OOrvv 


hL  )4-|0  4- 


Ht^ 


CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 
LIBRARY 


THE  WASON 

CHINESE 
COLLECTION 


DATE  DUE 


JS^ 

"^^6^ 

'  TeP'T! 

»!•« 

j 

GAYLORD 

PRlhfTED  IN  U.SA. 

BL    1410.869"  ""'"'""^  "-'"^'^ 


=^' 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924023185584 


MANUSCRIPT  REMAINS  OF 
BUDDHIST  LITERATURE 

FOUND   IN 

EASTERN  TURKESTAN 


OXFOED    UNIVEESITY  PRESS 

LONDON      EDINBURGH      GLASGOW      NEW    YOEK 
TORONTO  MELBOUENB  BOMBAY 

HUMPHREY    MILFOKD 

PUBLISHER  TO  THE  UKIVEB8ITT 


MANUSCRIPT   REMAINS   OF 

BUDDHIST   LITERATURE 

FOUND   IN 

EASTERN   TURKESTAN 

FACSIMILES 

WITH    TRANSCRIPTS    TRANSLATIONS    AND   NOTES 

EDITED  IN  CONJUNCTION  WITH  OTHER  SCHOLARS 

BY 

A.  F.  RUDOLF  HOERNLE 

CLE.    M.A.OXON.    PH.D.  TUBINGEN 


VOLUME    I 

PARTS  I  AND  II    MANUSCRIPTS   IN   SANSKRIT  KHOTANESE 

KUCHEAN   TIBETAN  AND   CHINESE 

WITH   TWENTY-TWO   PLATES 


OXFORD 

AT    THE    CLARENDON    PRESS 

1916 


PRIKTED    IN    ENGLAND 
AT    THE    OXFOED    UNIVBBSITY    PRESS 


W,  ^ )  3  / 


1 


Printed  in  Gt.  b.  ,iv. 


LIST   OF  CONTRIBUTORS 

Baknett,  Lionel  D.,  M.A.,  Litt.D.  (Cambridge),  Keeper  of  D(]iartmeiit 
of   Oriental  Printed  Books   and   Manuscripts,  British    Museum, 

r]'of(_\ssor  of  Sanskrit  at  University  Cullege,   London:    Tihctaii 
])oci(ii/erd. 

('havannks,  Emmanuel-fidouard,  Membre  de  I'Institut,  Profcsseur  au 
Cdllcge  de  France:   ( 'liiiw.sc  Fra<jiiu')il. 

KoNow,  Sten,  Ph.D.,  Professor  in  the  University  of  Kristiania,  Norway: 

Klioicuieae  ^hi nuaci'ipts. 

L^vi,  Syl\ain,  Professeur  au  College  de  France:  KucJieaii  Frntjineuia. 

LiJDEES,  Heinrich,  Ph.D.,  Professor  in  the  University  of  Berlin,  Member 
I  if  the  Pioyul  rrussian  Academy  of  Sciences,  Berlin,  &c. :  Sanskrit 
Fra</iiic)its. 

Pargitf,]:,  F.  E.,  ]\r.A.  (Oxford),  late  Judge  of  tlie  High  Court,  Calcutta: 
Sdiishnf  Vdji'dccIicJikd. 

Thojias,  F.  W.,  :\r.A.  (Cambridge),  Hon.  Ph.D.  (Munich),  Librarian, 
Lidia  ( )ffice.  ReadiT  in  Tibetan  in  the  University  of  London, 
Lecturer  in  Cmjiparative  Philology  at  University  College, 
Loiidnu  :    SdiisJ.rit  Frcuj incuts- 


a  .> 


CONTENTS 

PART  I 

LIST  OF  CONTRIBUTORS   .  ... 

GENERAL  INTRODUCTION 

LIST  OF  MANUSCRIPT  REMAINS  IN  VOLUME  I 
METHOD  OF  TRANSCRIPTION 
ABBREVIATIONS  .  ... 

SANSKRIT  TEXTS 

VOCABULARY  TO  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


PAOB 
V 

ix 
.    xxxiii 

XXXV 

.    xxxvi 

1 

196 


PART  II 
KHOTANESE  TEXTS  ...  .  314 

VOCABULARY  TO  KHOTANESE  TEXTS  .         .  .  .330 

KUCHEAN  TEXTS  .  357 

VOCABULARY  TO  KUCHEAN  TEXTS 377 

BILINGUAL  FRAGMENT,  CHINESE-KHOTANESE  .         .         .387 

BILINGUAL  FRAGMENT,  TIBETAN-KHOTANES E  .         .         .400 

VOCABULARY  TO  THE  KHOTANESE  OF  BILINGUAL  TEXTS   .       405 
ADDENDA       .         .  .  .  .  410 

ERRATA  .  .  ....       412 


PART    I 

GENERAL   INTRODUCTION   AND   SANSKRIT   TEXTS 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION 

By  a.  F.  Eudolf  Hoerxle 

The  first  volume  of  this  Serifs  was  to  have  been  issued  some  rears 
ago.  Cnjaiiges  in  the  staff  of  Contributors,  and  other  causes  over  which 
tlic  Editor  had  no  control  have  occasioned  the  delay.  On  the  other  hand, 
th(_'  delay  has  enabled  him  to  oifer  now  wliat  is  practically  a  double 
volume. 

A  complete  list  of  the  Contributors  is  given  on  page  v.  To  every 
one  of  these  sclmhirs  the  Editor  is  under  i^Teat  obligation  for  their 
valuable  assistance,  so  patiently  and  ably  rendered,  often  in  the  midst  of 
other  exacting-  professional  duties,  towards  tlic  execution  of  a  task,  tho 
difficulties  of  wliieh  can  be  fully  apjjreciated  only  by  those  who  have 
been  actually  engaged  in  it.  Especially  is  this  so  in  the .  case  of 
Pi'ofessors  Konow  and  Levi,  who  very  kindly  agreed  to  deal  with  tlnise 
texts,  o)'  fragments  of  texts,  which  are  written  in  what  till  quite  recently 
were  knowi]  only  as  the  'unknown  languages'  of  Eastern  Turkestan. 

In  that  portion  of  Central  Asia,  as  is  now  well  known,  there  (.)nce 
prevailed,  in  tlie  early  centuries  of  the  Christian  era,  two  distinct 
languages,  which  now  are  quite  extinct,  and  have  to  be  laboriously 
reeo\-ci-(jil  from  oljlivion.^  Broadly  speaknig  one  was  spoken  in  the 
north,  the  (jther  in  the  south.  The  northern  language  has  been  named 
'Tokhari'  by  l>r.  F    W    K.  I\Iiiller,-  and  the  southern,  'Northaryan'  bv 

'  A  siucinrt  accciiuit  (if  thi'  discovery  and  identification  of  the  two  '  unknown'  lan- 
,i;uaL;os  is  given  in  I'rolVssor  ticiirer's  Inaii crural  Lecture  (lit  12)  as  Prorector  of  the  University 
of  l'',rhini;en  nn  I)ii'  archaeologi^chen  und  liteiaristheu  Funde  in  Chinesisch  Turkestan  und 
ihre  lledeutuiig  fiir  ilie  orientall^^cllC  \\  i^senschaft,  pp.  11,  12,  where  all  needful  x'efereuces 
will  lie  found. 

'  'Tocliaiisch',  in  Sitzungslirrichte  der  Kul.  I'leussisLheii  Al<adcmie  derWls^ent.chafteii, 
1907,  p.  OGO.  Al^o  Prof.  Sieg  and  Dr.  Sieirliiiy,  ('?/;'?.,  11108,  p.  91G.  See  al.-o  Prof.  Meillet, 
•  Fie  Tokharien  '  in  Indogermanisches  .Jahrhuch,  1913,  vol.  i,  pp.  1,  2.  Two  other  stillborn 
names  are  ■  Ku'-gari^ch ',  used  by  Prof.  Leumann,  '  l^eber  eine  von  den  unbekannten 
Literatiuvpracheu  ^nttrlasien> '  in  M6moires  de  I'Aeademie  Imperiale  des  JScieiices  dc 
Si  I'etersliouri;-,  IDOO  (Ser.  VIII,  vol.  iv,  No.  8).  and  ■  Shulespracho ',  su^Liested  by 
Mr.  Emil  Smith,  '  Die  neuentdeckte  Indo-germanische  Spraehe  Mittelasiens  '  in  Yiden-^kabs- 
Srlskaliet    Skrifter  (Class  II,  191i),  X...  :.). 


X  GENERAL  INTRODUCTION 

Professor  E.  Letimann,^  and  '  Saka  language '  by  Professor  H.  Luders.* 
None  of  these  names,  however,  based  as  they  are  on  more  or  less  dis- 
putable ethnic  or  historical  considerations,  has  met  with  general 
acceptance.'  In  the  circumstances  it  seems  preferable  to  adopt  a 
suggestion,  first  thrown  out  by  Professor  J.  Kirste,^  and  to  denominate 
them  after  the  centre  of  the  geographical  areas,  in  which  undoubtedly 
they  once  were  spoken,  and  from  which  most  of  their  manuscript  remains 
have  been  recovered.  In  two  masterly  essays,  recently  published  by 
Professors  Sylvain  Levi  and  Sten  Konow,  it  has  been  shown  quite 
convincingly  that  the  centres,  or  capitals,  of  the  territories  in  which 
the  northern  and  southern  languages  once  prevailed  were  Kuchar  (or 
Kuche)  and  Khotan  respectively.'  Professor  Levi  did  this  service  for 
the  northern  language  in  the  Journal  Asiatique  for  1913  (Ser.  XI, 
vol.  ii,  pp.  311  ff.),  while  Professor  Konow  did  it  for  the  southern 
language  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1914  (pp.  339  fif.). 
Professor  Kirste  had  originally  suggested  the  names  '  Turfanisch '  and 
'  Khotanisch ',  but  Turfan  appears  to  be  not  so  much  the  centre  of  the 
territory  of  the  northern  language,  as  of  a  subordinate  dialect  of  it. 
Professor  Ldvi  uses  the  name  Kuchean  (Koutcheen) ;  and  following 
his  example,  that  name  has  been  adojoted  in  the  present  publication. 
It  is  preferable  to  the  alternative  form  Kucharl,  adopted  elsewhere, 
because  the  latter  might  suggest  not  so  much  the  dead  language  of 

*  '  Zur  nordarisohen  Spraohe  und  Literatur',  1912,  p.  29;  in  Schriften  der  Wissen- 
Echaftlichen  Gesellschaft  in  Strassburg,  10.  Heft. 

*  Sitzungsberichte  der  Kgl.  Preussischen  Akademie  der  Wissenscliaften,  Berlin,  1913, 
pp.  406  £f.  It  was  first  suggested  by  Dr.  A.  von  Le  Coq  in  Journal  EAS.,  1909,  p.  318.  See 
also  Prof.Eeiohelt,  '  Das  Nordarische  ',  in  Indogermanisches  Jahrbuch,  vol.  i,  1913,  pp.  2 Off. 

°  See,  e.g.,  Prof.  Meillet,  'Les  nouvelles  langues  indo-europeennes  trouv6es  en  Asie 
Centrale',  pp.  5,  17,  18  (in  Kevue  du  Mois,  1912,  vol.  xiv,  pp.  137,  149,  150);  also 
Prof.  S.  Levi,  in  Journal  E,AS.,  1914,  pp.  958-9.  The  first  objection  to  Tokbari  was  made 
by  Baron  de  Stael-Holstein,  '  Toohariscb  und  die  Sprache  I ',  in  the  Bulletin  de  TAcademie 
Imp^riale  des  Sciences  de  St.  Petersbourg,  1909,  pp.  479  ff.,  supported  by  Mr,  E.  Smith, 
above,  note  2.  See  also  Prof.  Konow,  '  Vedic  dasyu ',  &c.,  in  Festschrift  Vilhelm  Thomsen, 
1912,  and  '  Khotan  Studies  '  in  Journal  KAS.,  1914,  p.  343. 

'^  Vienna  Oriental  Journal,  vol.  xxvi,  1912,  pp.  395-6.  Also  Prof.  Konow  in  Gbttin- 
gische  Gelehrte  Anzeigen,  1912,  pp.  532  ff.,  and  in  Journal  EAS.,  1914,  p.  343. 

'  Kuchar  lies  41°  42'  N.  lat.,  and  80°  33'  E.  long.;  Khotan,  37°  5'  N.  lat.,  and 
80°  1'  E.  long.     See  my  edition  of  the  Bower  Manuscript,  Introd.,  p.  i,  footnote  2. 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xi 

old  Kuche,  as  the  current  language  of  modern  Kuchar.*  For  similar 
reasons  of  convenience  the  term  Khotanese,  rather  than  Khotaui,  has 
been  chosen  to  mark  the  dead  language  of  Khotan. 

Kuchean,  as  Professor  Mcillet^  and  other  scholars  have  shown,  is  an 
Indo-European  language  of  extremely  early  affinities  with  the  two  hitherto 
known  grt-at  western  and  eastern  groups  of  that  family  of  languages,  its 
affinity,  curiously  enough,  Leing  rather  closer  with  the  European  than 
tl](j  Indo-Iranian  group.  In  the  present  volume  it  is  represented  by 
three  detached  folios  from  two  manuscripts  of  the  Buddhist  Canon  of  the 
Sarvastivadins,  which  aie  edited  by  Professor  Svlvain  Levi  (pp.  357  ff.). 

The  territory  of  Kuchar,'"  as  Professor  S.  Levi  has  shown  in  the 
i-'Hsay  above  I'efei'i-ed  to,  was  eolonized  by  an  Indo-European  people  at 
some  unknown  date  before  the  commencement  of  the  Christian  era.  It 
first  emerges  into  history  in  the  second  century  B.  c,  when  it  came  into 
contact  with  the  r'hinese  Em]>ire  and  its  Annahsts.  It  was  then  already 
a  flourishing  and  highly  cultured  little  state  under  a  dynasty  which  in 
the  first  ci'ntmy  A.n.  received  from  the  Chinese  the  significant  name  of 
the  '  White  '  (Po).  It  had  also  already  adopted  the  Buddhist  religion, 
which  enjf.yed  a  particularly  flourishing  period  in  the  fourth  century 
A.D.  The  state  and  its  '  white  '  dynasty  lasted  down  towards  the  end 
of  the  eighth  century  \.ik,  when  both  utterly  disappeared  from  history 
in  the  couise  of  the  pohtical  and  lacial  convulsions  caused  by  the  inroads 
of  Tibetans,  Uigurs,  and  '  Arabs  '.  '  About  a.d.  1000  Turkish  barbarism 
had  finished  li\'  triumphing  over  Aryan  culture'  (JA.  XI,  ii,  380).  But 
the  Kuchean  language  which  is  now  totally  extinct,  and  till  recently  was 
utterly  forgotten,  is  shown  1iy  recovered  fragments  of  documents,  dated 
in  years  of  tlie  reign  of  King  Swarnate  (Chinese  Su-fa-tie)  of  Knchar,  to 
have  still  flourished  as  a  spoken  language  in  the  middle  of  the  seventli 
century. 


"  The  olil  name  is  Kuche,  as  shown  by  ('liiiusc  transcriptions,  iu  which  there  is  no 
iiniil  ;• ;  the  latter  seems  to  be  a  late  Turkisli  addition.  See  Prof.  Levi  in  Journal  KAS.  for 
1911,  pp.  9") 8  S.    Fur  the  same  reason,  Mr.  E.  Smith  had  suggested  his  'Sljule^|irache',  note  2. 

°  '  Le  Tokharien ',  in  Iiidojj;ermanisches  Jahrbuch,  11)13,  vol.  i,  pp.  12  ff.  Also 
Profs.  L^vi  and  !Meillet,  Etudes  linguistiques  ,sur  les  doeuments  de  la  Mission  Pelliot, 
1912-13,  fasc.  i,  iii,  v.     Alto  Prof.  Levi  in  Journal  PAS.,  191  i,  p.  959. 

'"  Apparently  including  those  of  L^ch  Turfan  and  Aksu,  both  to  the  west  of  Kuchar. 


xii  GENERAL  INTRODUCTION 

Khotanese,  the  other  till  recently  utterly  forgotten  language  of 
Eastern  Turkestan,  must  be  classed  with  the  Iranian  languages.  The 
study  of  it  has  the  great  advantage  of  being  facilitated  through  the 
recovery  of  several  complete  texts  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein  in  the  immured 
library  of  Tun-huang.  Two  of  these,  being  translations  from  the 
Sanskrit  of  the  Buddhist  canonical  texts  of  the  Vajracchedika  and  the 
Aparimit^yuh  Sutra,  are  edited  in  the  present  volume  by  Professor  Sten 
Konow  (p.  214  and  p.  289). 

As  regards  the  territory  of  Khotan,  Professor  Konow,  in  the  essay 
already  referred  to,  shows  that  during  the  time  of  the  T'ang  dynasty  of 
China,  it  was  known  under  the  name  of  Huan-na,  and  was  ruled  by 
a  dynasty  which  bore  the  name  of  Wei-chih,  or,  in  its  Tibetan  form, 
Bidzaya.  He  also  shows  that  those  two  names  occur  in  certain  dated 
ofEcial  documents,  discovered  within  the  Khotan  territory,  in  the 
Khotanese  form  of  Hvamna,  and  Vi^.  Those  documents  refer  themselves 
to  various  regnal  years  of  a  king  of  Hvamna,  called  Yisa-Vuharh,  who  is 
identical  with  the  Khotanese  king  Bidzaya  Bohan  of  the  Tibetan  records, 
and  who  reigned  in  the  second  half  of  the  eighth  century  (JRAS.,  1915, 
p.  487).  It  is  evident  that  the  Khotanese  language  was  still  flourishing, 
as  a  spoken  language,  in  the  territory  of  Khotan  as  late  as  that  century. 

There  is  yet  much  to  be  discovered  about  the  structure  of  this 
Khotanese  language  ;  but  so  much  seems  already  apparent  that  in  the 
recovered  manuscript  remains  it  is  presented  in  two  stages,  an  earher  and 
a  later.  The  latter  stage  of  it  occurs  in  the  ofiicial  documents  of  the  eighth 
century.  In  its  earlier  stage  it  is  fovmd  in  Buddhist  canonical  literatiire,^'- 
where  it  was  first  observed  b^'  Professor  Leumann.  This  is  readily  explic- 
able if  it  is  remembered  that  Buddhism  was  introduced  from  north-western 
India  into  Khotan  as  early  as  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era.  Transla- 
tions of  its  principal  canonical  texts  from  the  original  Sanskrit,  or  the 
Indian  vernacular  of  those  days,  into  the  language  of  the  native  people 
of  Khotan  must  have  followed  soon  upon  its  introduction,  and  continued 
from  time  to  time  with  the  growth  of  Sanskrit  Bviddhist  literature. 

"  See  pp.  220-1  and  pp.  396-7  of  this  volume  ;  also  Prof.  Leumann's  '  Zur  nordaris- 
clien  Sprache  und  Literatur',  pp.  57  if. 


GENERAL   INTEODUCTION  xiii 

A  somewhat  similar  phenomenon  appears  to  have  been  observed  in 
the  case  of  the  northern  Kuchean  hmguage.  It  has  been  attributed  by 
its  discoverers,  Professor  Sieg  and  Dr.  Siegling,^^  to  a  difference  of 
dialects.  But  whether  that  is  the  real  cause,  or  whether  it  likewise  be 
due  to  difference  in  age,  is  for  the  present  impossible  of  determination, 
owing  to  the  extreme  scarcity  and  fragmentariness  of  the  available 
manuscript  material. 

Either  of  the  two  languages,  Kuchean  and  Khotanese,  possessed  its 
own  peculiar  style  of  writing.  Both  styles,  however,  were  varieties  of  the 
Indian  Guj)ta  script.  That  script  with  its  upright  c/»r//fs,as  it  prevailed  in 
India  during  the  Tlupta  period,  and  was  imported  into  Eastern  Turkestan 
by  immii^rauts  from  India,  may  be  seen  in  the  Vinaya  iVagmeut,  No.  14!t  j-\, 
shown  on  Plate  1\',  No.  1,  which  was  found  in  the  vieiiiity  of  ]kii,  west 
of  Kuchar,  in  tlic  northern  area  of  Eastern  Turkestan.  In  that  area,  in 
the  liaiids  prol)al)ly  of  the  natives  of  the  country,  the  upright  type  of 
Indian  Gupta  developed  a  more  or  less  slanting  d itcfns,  which  may  be  seen 
in  the  fragiueiits  shown  in  Plates  I  and  III,  Plate  II,  Nos.  1-3,  Plate  l\\ 
No.  2,  Plate  XI,  No.  2,  and  Plate  XIX.  This  northern,  or  Kuchean, slanting 
tvpe  of  Gupta  .script"  must  have  originated  at  a  very  early  period,  for 
some  of  the  fragments  exhibiting  it,  when  dug  out  of  the  ruins  of  ancient 
stfipas,  were  mixed  up  with  other  fragments  Avliich  exhibit  the  true 
Indian  upright  (Jupta  of  the  fourth  or  fifth  century  a.d.^*  The  easiest 
tt'st  to  distinguish  the  slanting  from  the  upright  type  is  furnished  by 
the  loi'm  of  the  letter  y,  which  in  the  Indian  script  is  written  with  three 
open  prongs  (as  in  //"r//,  Plate  lA'',  No.  1,  line  7),  but  in  tlio  Kuchean 
script  with  three  closed  slanting  prongs  (as  in  i/adi,  Plate  IV,  No.  -!, 
line  1). 


'-  Sil/.uiii:;slK'riclitc  der  Kl;1.  Pixiiss.  Akademio  der  ^\'i^s(■llscll!l^t(■ll,  1!I08,  pp.  915  flf. 
Srr  alMi  I'lul.  lluillet'.s  '  Lo  Tukliiirien  '  in  JinluMriniaiiisrlics  .(ahibiicli,  1913,  p]i.  1-3. 

"  It  WHS  ili'ciplicied  liy  myself  in  1S93,  in  my  article  cm  tlir  \\'eber  j\ISS.  in  the 
.Tournal  ASB.,  vol.  Ixii,  Pt.  I,  p.  4,  Plate  IV,  in  which  it  was  called  liy  me  '  eV'ntral  .Asian 
Nauarl'.  In  myaiticle  on  the  Macaitney  j\rSS.  in  the  Jouiiial  ASB,,vol.  l.xvi,  Pt.  I,  lS97, 
]).  2  12,  it  was  called  by  me  'Central  A^ian  Ihahnil '.  Poth  names  are  latliei  too  vaoue. 
Sec  alsci  Plscliel  in  Sitzuugsbericlite,  190-1,  p.  809,  footnote  3. 

"  e.g.  the  Weber  and  Macartney  JISS.  fragments,  recovered  from  the  great  stupa 
of  Qutluq  Urda.     Sci'  my  edition  of  the  Bower  Manuscript,  Introd.,  pp.  .xiii  fF. 


xiv  GENEEAL   INTRODUCTION 

The  development  of  the  southern,  or  Khotanese,  type  of  Grupta  script 
probably  did  not  commence  quite  as  early.  In  that  part  of  Eastern 
Turkestan  the  slanting  type  never  came  into  vogue  at  all.  It  was  the 
Indian  upright  Gupta  which  continued  to  prevail,  and  only  very 
gradually  came  to  modify  the  shape  of  some  of  its  letters,  notably  those 
for  the  initial  vowels  or  vocalic  radicals  (see  p.  xvi).  There  were,  however, 
two  types  of  the  modified  Gupta  script  in  use  in  the  southern  portion 
of  Eastern  Turkestan,  a  calligraphic  and  a  cursive.  The  former  served 
literary  purposes  generally.  Thus  we  have  it  in  the  Stein  MS.,  Ch.  ii,  002, 
which  is  a  large  medical  treatise.^^  But  it  was  employed  specially,  and 
in  that  case  as  it  would  seem  exclusively,  in  copying  sacred  works  of 
the  Buddhist  Canon,  such  as  the  Vajracchedika  and  Aparimitayuh  Sutra 
manuscripts,  above  referred  to  (see  Plates  V-XVII),  also  the  Saddharma- 
pundarika  manuscript  (Plate  XVIII),  and  many  others  (Plates  II, 
No.  4,  XX,  XXI).  The  cursive  type  ^^  was  in  common  vise  in  public  and 
private  letters  and  documents,  and  for  those  purposes  had  superseded 
the  Kharoshthi  script  which  had  previously  prevailed  throughout  the 
southern  portion  of  Eastern  Turkestan  during  the  earlier  centuries  of 
our  era,  and  the  generally  elongated  ductus  of  which  it  imitated.  The 
cursive  type,  however,  was  employed  also  in  writing  literary  works  of 
a  secular  character,  such  as  the  Stein  MS.,  Ch.  003,  which  also  is  a  large 
medical  treatise ;  ^'^  or  in  writing  works  of  a  religious,  but  not  canonical 
character,  such  as  the  Stein  MS.,  Ch.  00277,  which  is  a  stotra,  or  hymn, 
in  praise  of  Buddha.  Of  this  cursive  type  of  the  Khotanese  Gupta  script 
two  specimens  are  shown  in  the  present  volume  in  Plate  XVII,  No.  2, 
obverse,  and  Plate  XXII. 

There  is  one  point  in  which  the  Khotanese  language  strikingly  differs 
from  the  Kuchean.  The  latter  possesses  a  considerable  number  of  sounds 
which  cannot  be  expressed  by  any  of  the  letters  of  the  ordinary  Sanskrit 
alphabet ;  and  for  the  expression  of  which,  consequently,  new  graphic 
signs  had  to  be  invented.  Most  of  these  peculiar  Kuchean  sounds  are 
supposed   to   be   modifications,   or   a   sort  of  attenuations,    of  certain 

^^  It  will  be  published  in  a  subsequent  volume. 

'°  It  was  deciphered  by  myself,  and  published  in  1897  in  my  article  on  the  Godfrey 
MSS.  in  the  Journal  ASB.,  vol.  Ixvi,  Pt.  I,  pp.  229,  234  ff. 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xr 

Sanskrit  Kr)unds,  though  their  exact  phonetic  value  is  not  known  at 
present.  The  Sanskrit  sounds  in  question  are  the  three  surd  consonants 
/,-.  t,  p,  the  three  sibilants  s,  .>•,  s,  and  the  four  sonants  n,  m,  r,  I.  The 
new  Kuchean  graphic  signs  expressing  the  coiTesponding  attenuated 
sounds  are  accordingly  indicated  by  those  letters  underlined,  k,  t,  p, 
&c.  In  addition  to  these  ten  peculiar  signs,  the  Kuchean  alphabet 
possesses  two  other  peculiar  signs,  expressing  the  sounds  of  iu  and  o, 
which  also  probably  in  some  way  differ  from  Sanskrit."  With  the 
exceptions  of  the  graphic  signs  for  s  and  n,  all  the  others  occur  in  the 
Kuchean  fragments,  included  in  the  present  volume,  and  may  be  seen  in 
Plates  XI,  No.  2,  and  XIX,  Nos.  2  and  3. 

In  the  Khotanese  language  there  is  only  one  sound  which  is  foreign 
to  the  Sanskrit,  and  which  was  thought  by  the  scribes  of  Khotan  to  require 
a  new  graphic  sign  for  its  designation.  This  is  a  peculiar  modification 
of  the  7--sound  which  occasionally  occurs  at  the  beginning  of  a  word,  oi- 
in  CI  injunction  with  a  consonant,  and  which  is  supposed  to  suffer  a  sort 
of  syllabication,  being  sounded  as  it  or  rr,'^^  though  its  actual  value  is  not 
known.  Its  occurrence  is  indicated  in  the  Khotanese  script  by  a  slight 
modification  of  the  Sanskrit  graphic  sign  for  r,  and  is  transcribed  in  the 
text-editions  by  rr.  It  niay  be  seen  particularly  well  on  Plate  II,  No.  4, 
Plate  A',  fols.  2if,  .'3«,  &c.      Besides  this  rr  the  Khotanese  languag-e  has 

Go 

other  sounds  of  its  own,  for  which,  however,  it  was  not  felt  necessarj-  to 
invent  new  graphic  signs.  For  example,  its  sonant  sibilant  s  the 
Khotanese  alphabet  indicates  by  a  ligature  of  the  ordinary  Sanskrit  signs 
for  //  and  s ;  and  what  is  of  particular  interest,  this  conjunct  sign  //.s 
actually  takes  its  place  in  the  Khotanese  alphabet,  (ir  rather  syllabary, 
among  the  simple  alphabetic  radicals  exactl}'  like  the  conjunct  A:^,  which, 
being  treated  already  bv  the  Indian  scribes  as  a  simple  I'adical,  is  made 
li}'  them  to  close  the  Sanskrit  table  of  alphabetic  radicals.'' 


"  Sic  Prof.  Meillet,  '  Le  Tokharien ',  in  Indogermanisches  Jahiliui'h,  vol.  i,    1913, 

pp.  i;  ff. 

'"  This  is  the  explanation  of  the  sound  by  Prof.  Leumaun,  '  Zur  noularischen  Sjnache 
und  Litcratur',  pp.  41  and  56-7.     But  see  infra,  p.  228. 

"  Sco  my  article  in  the  .Tournal  EAS.,  1911,  p.  459,  and  Plate  lY,  11.  4,  5;  also 
Biihler,  "  Origin  of  the  Imliau  P)rahma  Alphabet'  (2nd  ed.),  p.  28. 


xvi  GENEKAL   INTEODUCTION 

In  this  connection  a  sign  remains  to  be  mentioned  which  is  used  in 
both  scripts,  of  Khotan  as  well  as  of  Kuchar,  to  denote  the  neutral 
vowel.  It  consists  in  two  dots,  resembling  the  mark  of  diaeresis,  which 
are  placed  over  the  consonant  in  which  the  neutral  vowel  is  taken  to  be 
inherent.  It  may  be  seen,  e.  g.,  on  Plate  V,  fol.  2,  Plate  XI,  No.  2. 
This  neutral  vowel,  however,  is  nothing  peculiar  to  either  of  those  two 
languages  :  it  exists  also  in  the  mediaeval  and  modern  Sanskritic 
languages  of  India.  What  is  new  is  only  that  in  the  Khotanese  and 
Kuchean  scripts,  it  enjoys  a  mark  of  its  own  to  distinguish  it  from  the 
ordinary  short  vowels. 

There  is  one  circumstance  in  the  Khotanese  script  which  has  a  con- 
siderable historical  interest.  The  Sanskrit  script,  as  is  well  known, 
possesses  distinct  characters  for  the  denotation  of  the  five  radical  vowels 
a,  i,  u,  e,  0 ;  see  Fig.  1,  line  3.^"  While  these  characters  are  conserved 
in  the  Kuchean  script,  they  had  a  tendency  in  the  Khotanese  script  to 
be  abandoned  in  favour  of  retaining  only  the  character  for  the  vowel  a, 
and  to  adapt  the  application  of  that  character  to  the  vowels  i,  u,  e,  o  by 
adding  to  it  the  well-known  diacritical  marks  by  which  in  the  Sanskrit 
syllabary  those  vowels  are  denoted  when  they  occur  in  a  post-consonantal 
position  (Fig.  1,  1.  1).  The  forms  of  the  five  vowels  resulting  from  this 
tendency  are  shown  in  the  subjoined  Khotanese  syllabary  (Fig.  1,  1.  2). 
What  is  interesting  to  note  is  that  it  is  in  these  forms  of  the  ultimate 
Khotanese  script  that  the  vowels  appear  in  the  alphabet  of  the  U-chan, 
or  ordinary,  script  of  Tibet.  It  should  be  added  that  the  Sanskrit  vocalic 
radicals  (tndtrkd)  originally  signified  the  vocalic  sounds  a,  i,  u,  e,  o,  with- 
out any  reference  to  quantity.  When,  later  on,  it  was  found  necessary 
to  distinguish  their  length,  it  was  done  by  adding  to  them  the  same 
diacritical  marks  as  those  by  which  their  length  was  distinguished  when 
they  held  a  post-consonantal  position  (Fig.  1,  1.  3).  The  same  practice 
was  observed  by  the  Khotanese  script  in  its  reformed  alphabet ;  and  it 
reappears  in  the  U-chan  script  of  Tibet.' 


21 


'°  On  the  occurience  of  the  form  '^  o  in  the  modem  Nagarl  script,  see  below,  foot- 
note 26. 

"  See,  e.  g.,  I  in  lJcam°,  PI.  XI.  2ai  in  the  Kuchean  script,  which  conserves  the  Sanskrit 
practice  ;  and  a,  in  astci,  PI.  V.  56'",  i  in  PI.  V.  26"*,  in  the  Khotanese  script.    Of  course  the 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xvii 

With  regard  to  the  introduction  of  the  alphabet  into  Tibet,  the 
traditional  Tibetan  account,  as  usually  understood,  says  that  it  was 
imported  from  Magadha  in  Efistern  India  by  Tbon-mi  Sambhota,  during 

Fig.  1. 

KHOTANESE  SYLLABARY, 
ka    ka     ki     ki     ku     ku     ke    kai    ko    kau 


'^^'^fS^^I^^ 


-<      si 


^       MT        ^ 


ocalic|2-       ^    -^     i      %     ^  ^     ^     tf     Khotnnese 


radical 


(3.       '^'^^^^<SS9rT^^^     Sanskrit 
ail        i        i        uueaioau 

TIBETAN  SYLLABARY, 
ka     ka    ki      ki    ku     ku     ke     kai    ko    kau 

a         a       i         i        u         u        e        ai      o       au 

the  reign  of  King  Sroii-tsan  Gam^io,  about  the  middle  of  the  seventh 
century  a.d.  Dr.  A.  H.  Francke,  in  an  excellent  article  in  the 
Epigraphia,  Indica,-^  lias  shown  that,  su  far  as  the  country  of  origin  of 
the  alphabet  is  concerned,  that  understanding  is  erroneous,  and  that  the 
country  from   which  Sambhula  brought  the  knowledge  of  the  alphabet 


exact  form  of  tlio  diacritical  marks  of  length  varied  according  to  the  period,  the  country, 
and  piisj-ibly  the  fancy  of  the  scrilie.  Thus  we  find  J  expressed  hy  •]•  in  Iryapatha  of 
a  Sall^krit  YinuNa  text,  in  PL  lY.  la'',  and  in  the  same  text,  d  liy  a  curve  attached  to 
the  foot  of  the  character  for  a,  in  nsana,  dyacchati,  in  PL  IV.  1  a''''-  ^^  It  is  this  curve 
which  reapjiears  in  the  Tibetan  script  in  the  form  of  '^  /,  the  po-called  a-chuii,  or  little  a, 
and  which,  when  appended  to  a  syllabic  character,  serves  to  indicate  the  leuuth  of  its  vowel. 
"  '  The  Tibetan  Alphabet ',  vul.  xi,  pp.  266  ff.,  wliere  all  needful  Jeleieuces  to  previous 
writirs  on  the  subject  will  be  found.  1  may  add  that  before  I  had  seen  Dr.  Franeke's  article 
I  had  reachi  d   the   same   conclusion,  mainly  on   the  giouuds  set  out  on  ))p.  xviii  ff.,  which 


xviii  GENERAL  INTRODUCTION 

to  Tibet  was  really  Kashmir,  and,  further,  that  there  he  had  come  into 
contact  with  a  Brahman  from  Khotan,  whom  the  Tibetan  tradition 
calls  Li-byin  or  '  Blessing  of  Khotan ',  and  that  that  Brahman  taught 
him  the  alphabet  of  his  own  country.  This,  in  effect,  means  that  the 
alphabet,  as  introduced  into  Tibet,  is  the  alphabet  of  Khotan,  Li  being 
the  well-known  Tibetan  name  of  Khotan.  It  is  not  the  alphabet  of  India. 
According  to  Tibetan  tradition  ^^  Khotan  fell  under  the  domination  of 
Tibet,  in  the  seventh  century,  under  Sron-tsan  Gampo.  There  could  be 
no  direct  communication,  across  the  Himalaya,  between  Lhassa  in  Tibet 
and  Khotan.  It  could  be  effected  only  by  way  of  Kashmir  and  the 
passes  leading  from  that  country  into  Eastern  Turkestan.  Thon-mi's 
mission,  to  procure  the  alphabet  from  Khotan,  had  necessarily  to  take 
that  circuitous  route  ;  and  to  judge  by  the  Tibetan  tradition  he  was 
saved  the  completion  of  his  journey  through  the  lucky  accident  of 
meeting,  on  his  way  in  Kashmir,  with  a  learned  Brahman  from  Khotan, 
who  could  supply  him  with  the  information  he  was  in  search  of 

The  introduction  of  the  alphabet  from  Khotan  is  capable  of  a  quite 
satisfactory  proof  Sambhota  is  said  to  have  brought  back  with  him 
from  Kashmir  an  alphabet  consisting  of  thirty  radicals,  twenty- four  of 
which  he  is  said  to  have  received  from  his  Khotanese  instructor  Li-byin, 
while  he  himself  added  six  new  radicals  for  the  purpose  of  expressing 
certain  sounds  peculiar  to  Tibet,  The  twenty-four  radicals  (see  Fig.  2) 
taken  over  from  the  Khotanese  alphabet  were  those  denoting  the  con- 
sonants :  h,  Jih,  g,n;  c,  ch,j,  n  ;  t,  th,  d,  n  ;  p,  fh,  h,  m  ;  w,y,r,l;  s  ,  s  ;  h,  a. 
The  six  new  radicals,  added  by  Sambhota,  and  formed  by  modifications 
of  certain  Khotanese  radicals,  were  the  consonants  ts,  tsh,  clz  ;  z,  z  ;  h. 

Two  points  must  be  noted  in  this  Tibetan  classification  of  the  letters 
of  their  alphabet.  In  the  first  place,  the  sign  for  w  is  classed  among  those 
consonants  which  are  said  to  have  been  taken  over  from  the  Khotanese 
alphabet,  but  in  the  actual  order  of  the  Tibetan  alphabetical  table,  it  is 
placed  right  in  the  middle  of  the  newly  constructed  signs  as  denoting 

are  not  specially  noticed  by  him.     See  also  Dr.  Francke's  article  in  tlie  Memoirs  of  the 
Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal,  vol.  i,  pp.  43  ff.,  and  his  article  on  '  The  kingdom  of  gNya   khri 
btsanpo'  in  JASB.  (N.S.),  vol.  vi,  pp.  97-9.     See  also  the  Note  on  p.  xxxi. 
"  See  Eockhill's  Liie  of  the  Buddha,  p.  211. 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  "     xix 

;i  peculiar  Tibetan  sound,  whence  in  that  table  these  particular  Tibetan 
signs  come  to  number  seven.  There  is  here  an  apparent  inconsistency  ; 
but  it  is  susceptible  of  a  simple  explanation.  The  Tibetan  sign  for 
w  (a)  is  really  the  Khotanese  (i.  e.  Sanskrit)  sign  for  the  cerebral  sibilant 
s  (n),  with  a  leftward  curve  added  on  to  the  top  of  its  left  vertical  stroke. 
Exactly  in  the  same  way,  the  new  Tibetan  sign  for  z  ((^)  is  formed  by 
a  leftward  curve  added  to  the  top  of  the  Khotanese  (i.  e.  Sanskrit)  sign 
for  the  dental  n  {^).  One  might  expect,  therefore,  that  the  two  signs, 
for  w  and    z,  since    both    denote    peculiar   Tibetan    sounds,    would    be 

Fig.  2. 

KHOTANESE  AND  TIBETAN  ALPHABET. 

k      kh     g        h     I     c       ch       j       n      I     t      th      d       n    I    p     ph       b      m    i 

ts     tsh     dz      w      I     z       z      h   I        y       r        lis        s      I      h      I      a       il 

treated  alike  in  relation  to  the  alphabet.  But  though,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  they  are  both  alike,  and  side  by  side,  placed  among  the  new  signs 
in  the  alphabetic  table,  they  are  classified  differently,  viz.  ^o  among 
the  consonants  received  from  Khotari,  and  z  among  those  constructed  by 
Sambhota  ;  and  they  are  so  classified  simply  because  the  latter  sign  (£), 
in  its  unmodified  Khotanese  form,  occurs  also  in  the  Tibetan  alphabet 
as  the  sign  for  the  dental  n,  while  the  former  isign  (»■)  in  its  un- 
modified Khotanese  form  (viz.  for  cerebral  .s)  does  not  occur  in  the 
Tibetan  alphabet.  On  precisely  the  same  principle  of  classification,  the 
four  new  signs  for  the  peculiar  Tibetan  sounds,  ts,  tsh,  dz,  z,  are  classed  as 
newly  constructed  ones,  because  their  unmodified  Khotanese  (i.e.  Sanskrit) 
forms  occur  also  in  the  Tibetan  alphabet  as  the  signs  for  c,  ch,  j.  In 
fact,  the  only  sign  which  is  really  new,  that  is,  not  a  mere  modification 


XX  GENERAL  INTEODUCTION 

of  an  existing  Khotanese  (i.  e.  Sanskrit)  consonantal  sign,  is  that  for  h  ; 
and  this  sign,  therefore,  most  properly  is  classed  as  a  new  sign.  The  sign 
for  A,  namely,  as  stated  already  in  footnote  21,  is  really  a  modification  of 
the  Khotanese  (i.  e.  Sanskrit)  curve  which  serves  to  indicate  the  length 
of  a  vowel.  The  true  origin  of  the  sign  is  seen  clearly  from  its  import 
as  an  appendix  to  a  syllable  the  vowel  of  which  it  is  desired  to  indicate 
as  being  long.-* 

The  second  point  to  be  noted  is  that  in  the  Tibetan  alphabetical  table, 
the  sign  for  the  radical  a  is  not  placed,  as  in  the  Sanskrit  alphabetical 
table,  separately  and  in  advance  of  the  consonantal  radicals,  but  takes  its 
place  right  at  the  end  of  the  twenty-four  consonantal  radicals,  which  were 
taken  over  from  the  Sanskrit  (Khotanese),  and  the  series  of  which  it  con- 
cludes. Further,  that  the  framer  of  the  Tibetan  alphabet  imderstood  it  to 
be  of  the  nature  of  a  consonantal  radical  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  it  is 
treated  like  any  other  consonantal  radical ;  for  the  vowel  a  is  taken  to  be 
inherent  in  it,  and  the  vowels  i,  u,  e,  o  are  indicated  by  attaching  diacritical 
marks  to  it.  If  we  were  to  transcribe  the  radical  sign  for  a  by  x,  the  Tibeta,n 
alphabetic,  or  rather  syllabic,  table  presents  the  syllabic  radicals  iea,  xi,  xai, 
xe,xo,  &c.,precisely  in  the  same  way  as  it  presents  the  radicals  ka,  hi,  ku,  he,  ho, 
&c.  (see  Fig.  1).  In  short  the  Tibetan  apparently  vocalic  radical  for  a  really 
functions  as  a  consonantal  radical,^^  and  in  that  respect  is  reminiscent  of 
the  function  of  consonantal  radicals,  such  as  'ale/ and  'ayin,  in  Semitic 
alphabets  ;  and  that  is  a  fashion  which  is  altogether  foreign  to  any 
Indian  alphabet.  This  is  a  noteworthy  fact ;  and  by  itself  it  points  to 
the  conclusion  that  the  Tibetan  alphabet  is  not  an  importation  from 
India,^^  but  from  some  country  the  alphabet  of  which  must  have  come 

"  Dr.  Francke's  explanation  of  the  origin  of  the  signs  for  w  and  h,  in  Epigraphia 
Indica,  vol.  xi,  p.  270,  is  different,  and,  in  my  opinion,  very  fanciful. 

^'•'  In  confirmation,  I  may  refer  to  a  Tibetan  tradition  (which  however  I  am  just  now 
unable  to  verify)  quoted  by  me  in  1893  from  Baboo  Sarat  Chandra  Das,  in  Journal  ASB., 
vol.  Ixii,  Pt.  I,  p.  6,  '  He  (Thon-mi)  based  the  four  vowels,  called  a-li  (or  '  series  of  a ' ; 
i.  e.  I,  e,  0,  u)  on  a.' 

"^  It  is  interesting  to  observe  that  the  modern  Nagari  script  has  the  forms  '^  o  and 
^  au.  But  the  practice  of  writing  those  two  vowels  with  the  radical  '^  is  very  modern 
indeed;  it  dates  no  further  back  than  the  early  eighteenth  century.  It  appears,  e.g.,  in 
the  medical  MSS.  of  the  India  Office,  Nos.  2644  and  2638,  dated  respectively  a.d.  1720 
and  1733  ;  but  not  in  No.  2637,  which  is  of  about  the  same  date.     The  practice  arose 


GENERAL  INTRODUCTION  xxi 

in  some  way  under  the  influence  of  a  Semitic  fashion  of  writing.  It  has 
been  stated  already  that  Tibetan  tradition  distinctly  refers  to  Li-i/u], 
'  the  land  of  Li ',  i.  e.  to  Khotan,  as  the  country  of  origin  of  its  alphabet; 
and  modern  archaeological  discoveries  have  shown  abundantlv  that 
Semitic  influences  were  at  work  in  Eastern  Turkestan  for  some  time 
before  the  traditional  date  of  that  importation. 

We  have  now  to  examine  the  manuscript  remains  recovered  from  the 
Khotan  area  to  see  whether,  and  how  far,  the  Khotanese  alphabet  and 
Khotanese  writing  preserved  in  them  supply  evidence  in  corroboration  of 
the  Tibetan  tradition.  The  examination  will  have  to  take  two  thing's 
into  account:  first,  Khotanese  texts  as  written  either  in  the  Upright 
Gupta  or  the  Cursive  Gupta  type  of  the  Khotanese  script  ;  secondly, 
Khotanese  writing  as  preserved  in  nklcr  literary  texts,  or  as  presented  in 
latci-  official  or  private  documents.  The  evidence,  resulting  irr)m  this 
examination,  and  quoted  in  the  sequel,  will  be  taken  so  far  as  possible 
from  tlie  manuscript  remains  included  in  the  present  volume.  When 
that  source  fails,  reference  will  be  made  to  earlier  publications  of  such 
remains  in  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal,  as  well  as  to, 
as  yet,  unpublished  remains  in  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  and  my  own  collections. 
Accordingly  the  witnesses  will  be  the  following: — 

I.   In  Upriglit  Gupta  script: — 

(1)  The  Yairacchedika  (Vai.),41  fnls.  "1  i    ,,    •     i    ,    i  •      ,, 

;  '   „,      .   •'    .    .         ,  \-,y        ,.     ,       both  mcluded  m  the  present 

(2)  ihe  Aiiarunitaynh  butra   (Ap.),  r  ,  t>i  _l      -tr  Vtttt 
^  '           ,.  ,^               -                     \    r  /'          volume  ;  Plates  V-XVII, 

'20  fols.  ) 

(3)  Stein  ^IS.,  Cli.   ii.   002,    Siddhasara  Sastra  (Siddh.),  a  medical 

^\drl':,  0,")  fols. 

(4)  Stein  MS.,  Gh.  00274,  an  unidentified  Buddhist  religi(nis  work 

(Buddh.),  39  fols.     Neither  No.  3  nor  No.  4  is  published  as 
vet. 


from  the  gradual  blending  of  the  cliaract(r.s  for  the  vowel.s  a  and  au,  from  tlie  tenth 
century  dinvnrds,  as  may  be  .Keen  by  releiriui^'  to  Tulde  Y  of  Biihler's  Indian  Palaeography, 
and  comparing  Nos.  ix,  xii,  xvii  in  traverses  1  and  0.  That  this  is  so  is  evident  hum 
the  fact  that  the  vowels  ''  and  at  have  always  been,  and  are  to  the  present  day,  written 
with  the   speeial    radical  1J  which   could   not  blend  with  the  radical  '^. 

.-,79  b 


xxii  GENERAL  INTRODUCTION 

(5)  Fi-ngraents  (Fr.)  in  the  Hoernle  Collection,  of  Buddhist  canoni- 
c:d  literature  ;  139  pieces  ;  not  published. 

II.  In  Cursive  Gapta  script  : — 

(1)  The  two  folios  7  and  8  of  the  Aparimitayuh  Sutra  (above  men- 

tioned, No.  2),  included  in  the  present  volume,  Plate  XV. 

(2)  The  Khotanese  texts  of  the  Tibetan  and  Chinese  bilingual  frag- 

ments (Tib.,  Chin.),  published  in  the  present  volume,  Plates 
XVII  and  XXII. 

(3)  Documents  (Doc),  pubhshed   in   the   Journal  ASB.,  vol.  Ixvi, 

Pt.  I,  1897,  Plates  V-VII  ;  and  in  the  Report  in  the  same 
Journal,  Ex.  No.,  vol  Ixx,  Pt.  I,  1901,  Plates  VI,  VII. 

(4)  Text  Rolls  (T.R.)  of  the  Stein  Collection,  Ch.  0041,  Mahaprat- 

yangiia  Dharnni,  partly  published  in  the  Journal  RAS.,  1911, 
Plate  V.  Also,  Ch.  0044,  Kausaki  Prajnaparandta,  70  lines  of 
writing;  and  Ch.  00266  with  382  lines  of  writing;  neither 
published. 

(5)  Stein  MS.,  Ch.  ii.  003,  an  anonymous  medical  work  (Med.),  in 

71  fols. ;  not  yet  published. 

(6)  Svlhibary  Rolls  (S.R.)  of  the  Stein  Collection,  published  in  the 

journal  RAS.,  1911,  Plates  I-IV. 

The  evidence  of  these  witnesses  is  as  follows  : — 

(1)  In  the  Upright  Gupta  script,  all  vowels  (a,  a,  i,  i,  e,  id  o,  au) 
are  ordinarily  written  with  the  radical  '^.  The  only  exceptions  are  the 
vowels  u  and  il,  which  are  ordinarily  written  with  the  special  radical  ^, 
there  being  only  a  single,  perhaps  doubtful,  example  of  short  u^  written 
with  the  radical  ^,  in  Plate  VI,  QaP-.^'' 

As  to  the  other  vowels,  short  i  (as  an  initial)  is  a  vowel  of  rather 
rare  occurrence.  W^ith  the  special  three-dotted  radical  (*.*),  it  never 
occurs  in  secular,  and  very  exceptionally  in  canonical  literature. 

The  details  are  as  follows.    It  never  occurs  in  Ap.,  and  only  once  (with  the  radical 
•«•)  in  Vaj.,  Plate  XIII,  41  i"      In  Siddh.  it  ociirs  only  eleven  times,  and  always 

"  It  orcuis  in  the  word  w/iu,  which  ordinaiily  is  written  with  the  radical  ^;   e.g. 
PI.  VI,  6  6"  76i^i.     See  aho  footnote  29. 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xxiii 

with  the  radical  ^  ;  fols.  1  i"- ''  3  i"  4  //  7  b'^  10  i'"  (/yf/f)  102  a"'  140  ^i"  147  a^  b^'\ 
In  rV.  it  occurs  three  times,  always  with  radical  %•,  No.  -^gj^-,  I.  3,  No.  --iw'  ^-  ^' 
N(..  Vr>  1-  2- 

The  long  vowel  I  is  of  rather  more  frequent  occurrence  ;  but  with 
tlie  radical  v  it  is  found  vevv  exceptionally,  both  in  canonical  and 
secular  Buddhist  literature,  thoagii  the  exceptions  are  more  frequent  in 
canonical  literature,  especially  in  Ap.  and  Fr. 

The  details  are  as  follows.  In  Vaj.  it  occurs  altoo-ether  2fl  times ;  viz.  19  times  with 
radical  ^,  PN.  V  ff.,  fuls.  2  //"  17  a"  i"'  19  a"'  //"  21  0'''  22  a'  30  //'  32  a'^  35  a'"  b"'-  '^ 
36  a'-  "37  b"  39  a'  41  i"  42  «"■  '^,  and  only  once  with  the  radical  •.• ,  Plate  V  3  b'K 
In  Ap.  it  occurs  only  three  times,  always  with  the  radii  al  •«•,  PI-  XIV  2  a"  3  a^, 
Pi.  XV  10  a'^.     In   Siddh.  it  occurs  37  times  with  radical  ^  ;   fols.  2  i^  4  a"'  5  a" 

6  b"'  7 //  9  a'  (A/s-r  i^  11//''  14  a'/.'  18.-"'  19  «"  b'"  XO//"  104.  .('  107  a''//  121  r/' 
122  «"'/."  123  a''  126  a'"  128//"''  131a''  133/"'  134//"  136//'  138  a"  '"  144ffl"-'" 
i'  155  //"' ;  never  with  radical  •»•  •  In  Bnddh.  it  occurs  10  times  with  radical'??; 
fols.  1  i"  2  i/^  3  a'  K  i'"  9  a"  15  6'"  18  a"  27  a'  32  //'  37  i"'  ;  never  with  radical  •.•- 
In  I'l-.  it  occurs  15  times  with  radical  ^  ;  No.  -Y#,  h  2,  No.  -\%^  1.  2,  No.  ^V.  '•  ^' 
No.  -VV-.  1-  1-  No.  -Vy-.  1-  1,  ^'o.  W-,  h  ■"'■  No.  -V/-,  1-  ■"'.  No.  -V,i,  1.  5,  No.  -W>  '■  ■-■ 
No.  i-J^,  11.  3,  4,  No.  if-"-,  1.  6  (fji/),  No.  -^t"-,  H.  2,  5  ;  and  13  times  with  radical  v; 
No.  W.  "•  1,  ■-■-  No.  -W,  1.  5  (/.;*),  No.  -^A2,  1.  6,  No.  V/.  1-  2,  No.  -W>  1-  1- 
No.  Yj'.  h  '4-  No.  i^i  h  4'  No-  xll'  h  2,  No.  i||,  1.  3,  No.  \%°-,  11.  3,  4.  AVith  the 
very  old  radical  -|-  it  occurs  once  in  No.  -j^J,  1.  4  (s(.e  footnote  21). 

The  A'ouels  e  and  ai  are  of  very  rare  occurrence  ;  and  written  with 
the  special  I'adical  TJ,  tliey  are  still  moie  exceptional,  though  the  excep- 
tions again  are  more  frequent  in  canonical  literature,  especially  in  Ap. 
and  Budtlh. 

The  details  are  as  follows.  Neither  e  nor  ai  is  ever  found  in  Vaj.  In  Ap.  e 
occurs  Iwici",  and  hol'i  times  with  the  radical  1J,  Plate  XIV  1  /«'"  2  a";  ai  never.  In 
Siddh.,  '■  occurs  seven  times  with  radical  ^  ;  fols.  16  a'  1-8  i"'-  ''  152  a'  (bis)  155  b" 
156  a',  lint  onlv  once  with  radical  11,  fol.  11  a'  ;  while  ai  occurs  onl^"  once,  and  then 
with  radical  ^,  fol.  100a".    In  Buddh.,  e  occurs  six  times  with  radical  ^  ;  f  ils.  1  i"' 

7  6''  9  i'  IS  6'  31  //  38  b\  and  only  three  times  with  radical  'q.  fols.  6  b''"  9  a"  17  a'; 
while  ai  occurs  only  twice,  both  times  with  radi.al  TJ,  fols.  10  a"  35  b\  In  Fv., 
neither  e  nor  ai  occurs. 

As  to  the  vowels  a  and  an.  neither  very  frequent,  both  may  be 
written  in  two  ways,  either  with  the  radical  '^,  or  with  a  special  radical 

h-2 


xxiv  GENERAL   INTEODUCTION 

Z,  peculiar  to  the  Khotanese  script,^*  though  the  latter  is  practically 
restricted  to  canonical  literature,  the  radical  "^  being  ordinarily  used  in 
non-canonical  writing. 

The  details  are  as  follows.  In  the  canonical  texts  Vaj.  and  Ap.,  the  special 
radical  3.  is  always  used,  never  radical  '^.  Thus  o  24  times  in  Vaj.  (e.g.  Plate  V  3  J", 
PI.  IX  32  a'-  (bis),  &c.,  see  Vocabulary,  pp.  345-6),  and  five  times  in  Ap.  (Plate  XIV 
2a^bis),  PI.  XVI 13  a'  14  «"  16  ¥^)  ;  again  a^i,  five  times  in  Vaj.,  PI.  X  38  5'  (iris)  "■  "', 
and  three  times  in  Ap.,  Plates  XIV  3  a«S  XV  9a\  X^^  13  a\  In  Buddh.,  also  a 
canonical  text,  radical  '^  is  used  more  often  than  the  special  radical  Z  with  either  o 
or  au  ;  thus  o  with  radical  "^  four  times,  fols.  27  5'^  314'  34  a"-  '^  with  radical  Z  six 
times,  fols.  19  ^"  26  b^-  "■  '■^  24  a^""  26  a"  ;  and  an  with  radical  ^  ten  times,  fols.  28  a'^ 
29  ffi*  //^  30  4"  32  ai"  33  4"  35  i'  36  a"  37  4"  38  5'",  with  radical  Z  six  times,  fols.  7  a" 
12 «"  15a."  26  ^i"  24  a'  25^".  In  Fr.,  all  of  canonical  texts,  radical  Z  is  always 
used,  never  ^  ;  thus  with  o  33  times,  No.  ^*^-,  1.  5,  No.  -^^^.^  j.  7^  n^.  iji/,  H.  3,  4, 
No.  -W->  1-  5  (six  times),  No.  -W-,  11.  1,  2,  3,  No.  -Vt".  1-  3,  No.  -\%%  1.  4,  No.  V/-. 
1.  4,  No.  -V/,  1.  1  (six  times),  No.  -V<f ,  1.  2,  No.  %*#,  1. 1,  No.  f  4|,  l.  3,  No.  ^\S  1.  3, 
No.  -W,  1.  2,  No.  -Ws  1-  6,  No.  -W,  1-  6,  No.  W-,  1.  2,  No.  iff,  1.  3,  No.  i||,  1.  1, 
No.  -VV-,  1.  6 ;  and  with  au,  three  times.  No.  -V?-,  H-  3,  4,  No.  Y#>  1-  4.  On  the  other 
hand,  in  the  non-canonical,  medical  Siddh.,  both  vowels  0  and  a/i  are  always  written 
with  radical  "^j  never  with  the  special  radical  Z  ;  thus  0  twice,  fol.  3  4'"- ''  ;  and  aw  21 
times,  fols.  2  5*  3  ^"-  (4z*)  "'  7  I'  9i^  10  «^  19  a"  100  a"  104  J*^  107  a'  123  a"  5"-  "' 
128  «'«  138  a'  139  a^  140  a«  149  i^  151  b''  155  a". 

(2)  In  the  Cursive  Gupta  script,  all  vowels  {a,  a,  i,  i,  e,  ai,  0,  av), 
with  the  exception  of  tt  and  u,  are  invariably  written  with  the  radical 
"^  a.  The  vowels  %i  and  u  are  equally  invariably  written  with  the  special 
radical  ^.  The  three  special  radicals  for  i,  e,  0  never  occur  at  all.  In 
the  whole  extensive  mass  of  cursively  written  manuscript  remains,  so  far 
as  I  have  been  able  to  examine  it,  two  of  those  three  special  radicals, 
namely  those  for  i  and  0,  occur  only  in  the  concluding  passage  of  the 
Kau^aki  Prajnaparamita  Boll,  Ch.  0044  ;  once  i  in  1.  67,  and  twice  au  in 
lines  64  and  65.     And  with  regard  to  this  singular  exception  it  is  to  be 


^°  See  below,  p.  xxviii.  In  order  to  signify  au,  the  mark  of  length  is  added,  either  in  its 
fourth  or  fifth  form  (see  infra,  p.  140) ;  usually  tlia  former  (see,  e.  g.,  Plates  X  38  h^,  XIV 
3  aiii,  XX  3'i),  but  once  the  fifth  form  (as  in  na,  Plate  XVIII  3  aS^).  The  latter  is  the 
usual  one  in  the  Kuohean  slanting  Gupta  script,  as  in  onolme,  Plate  XI  2  a'. 


GENERAL  INTRODUCTION  sxv 

noted  that  the  passage  consists  of  a  short  charm  {mantra)  in  the  Sanskrit, 
not  in  the  Khotanese  language.     The  details  are  as  follows  :— 

The  vowel  /,  written  with  radical  ^,  ocenvs  once  in  Tib.,  Plate  ^VII  2  a'^  ; 
three  times  in  Doc,  JASl!..  1897,  Plate  AM.  6  :  and  27  times  in  :Med.,  fols.  54  5"' 
67  r,^  b"  68  //'  7:2  a'"  73  a"-  "  74  a'^  77  a"  //"  80  i'^'  81  i^  88  a'  89  a^  90  a'"  92  a^  93  a' 
96  //^  97  a'«  101  i^  102  a»  (i/.j)  103  a'^  i«'  104  a"'-  '^  115  5"'. 

The  vowel  z,  with  radical  ^,  occurs  twice  in  Tib.,  Plate  X\'IIa^'-™;  twice  in 
Chin.,  Plate  XXJI /y'^™- ^'^  ;  live  times  in  Doc,  JASB.,  1897,  Plates  X,  1.  5,  VI, 
No.  9,  ].  4,  Xo.  10,  11.  6  and  7  ;  Export,  Plate  \I,  1.  4  ;  and  25  times  in  Aled.,  fols. 
46  a"  (his)  47  a^'  f/'  52  a'  56  a"  57  a*^  61  i'  63  i'  67  i"*-  ^  69  a'"  73  a^  76  a''  {bis)  99  a^'  i" 
100  rt'  103  «*'■ '"  U  104  «'■  i^  109  i"'  (/w'.v). 

The  voAvel  (\  with  radical  '^,  occurs  once  in  Tib.,  Plate  XVII  a'^ ;  and  16  times 
in  Med.,  fols.  46  n"  4:7a'  50  a"- ''  51  rt^'  ^^'^  55  b''-  "'  58  a"'  59  i'-  '"■  '"  60  b'  61  «'"  62  r;i^ 
65  fi^'      In  Doc.  it  does  not  occur. 

Tlie  vowel  rii,  with  radical  '^,  occurs  once  in  the  Text  Roll  of  the  Arahfipnityan- 
g-irn,  Dhu.,  JRAS.,  1911,  Plate  V,  1.  15  ;  and  four  times  in  Med.,  fols.  47  i"  48  i^ 
58  i'"  62  b\     In  Tib.,  Chin.,  Doc.  it  does  not  occur. 

The  vowel  0,  with  radical  '^,  does  not  occur  in  any  of  the  eursivel}'  written 
ii]auuseripty  of  the  witness  list,  with  the  exception  of  the  Syllabary  Rolls,  the  evidence 
of  whicli  is  given  below. 

The  vowel  an,  with  radical  ^,  occurs  three  times  in  fols.  7  and  8  of  Ap.,  Plate 
XV  7«'^i'"  8^''"  (see  also  JASB.,  1901,  PI.  VI);  once  in  Tib.,  Plate  XVII  ,/"' ; 
twice  in  Doc.  Iteport,  Plate  NII.ll.  2  and  5  ;  and  nine  times  in  Med.,  fols.  44  a'  (bis) 
62  a'  63  b'-'  66  a'^  72  4"  81  b^  106  b^  116  b\ 

(3)  As  to  the  Cursive  Gupta  script,  the  evidence  of  the  Alphabetical 
and  Syllabary  Rolls  is  particularly  important.  These  Rolls,  as  explained 
liv  me  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1911,  pp.  4r>0  ff., 
evidently  exhibit  the  usages  of  writing  by  masters  and  pupils  in  the 
Buddhist  monastic  schools  of  Eastern  Turkestan  in  the  eighth  century 
A.D.  In  these  schools  it  appears  to  have  been  the  practice  to  utilize  the 
blank  reverse  of  jiaper  rolls,  the  obverse  of  which  was  inscribed  with 
Chinese  Buddhist  texts,  for  the  purpose  of  teaching  and  exercising  the 
writing  of  the  Khotanese  ordinary  script.  With  this  object  the  reverse 
side  is  covered  with  tables  of  the  Khotanese  alphabetic  radicals  as  well  as 
tables  of  syllabaries  inscribed  in  a  fine,  well-formed  hand,  apparently  by 
tlie  schoolmaster.      Now  in  the  alphabetic  table,  inscribed  on  Roll  Ch.  xl, 


xxvi  GENEKAL  INTRODUCTION 

003,  shown  on  page  455  of  the  Journal,  only  the  two  radicals  ^  and  ^ 
are  prescribed  for  the  whole  of  the  ten  vowels  of  the  alphabet.  That 
shows  that  all  vowels,  except  ti  and  u,  were  to  be  written  with  the 
radical  '^.  The  alphabet,  in  this  form,  with  the  solitary  vocalic  radicals 
^  and  ^,  is  repeated  on  the  reverse  side  of  Roll  Ch.  0042  (shown  ihid., 
Plate  III,  1.  13)  apparently  by  a  pupil,  in  a  very  ill-formed  hand.  On 
two  other  Rolls,  Cli.  Iviii,  007  and  Ch.  0046  (shown  ibid.,  Plate  I,  1.  1, 
and  Plate  IV,  1.  17),  the  alphabetic  table  is  given  in  much  fuller  detail. 
The  complete  series  of  ten  vowels  is  shown  in  them,  written  with  the 
radicals  ^  and  ^.  But  two  points  are  particularly  noteworthy  :  first,  it 
is  only  the  long  il  which  is  written  with  the  radical  'g,  while  all  the 
other  nine  vowels,  including  the  short  u,  are  written  with  the  radical  ^. 
Secondly,  the  diacritical  mark  indicating  the  sound  of  short  u  is  not 
attached  to  the  bottom  of  the  radical  ^,  in  the  form  of  a  wedge,  or 
a  curve,  or  an  angle,  as  it  is  usual  with  other  consonantal  radicals  (e.  g. 
the  wedge  in  kJiu  and  Jem,  Plate  I,  11  10  and  42 ;  the  curve  in  ]:u,  ibid., 

1.  9  ;  the  angle  in  kyu,  kliyu,  ibid.,  11.  43  and  44),  but  is  mounted  on  the 
top  of  the  radical  ^,  in  the  form  of  a  curve  or  angle  (the  former  in 
Plate  I,  1.  1,  the  latter  in  Plate  IV,  1.  17).  The  reason  for  this  position 
of  the  mark,  no  doubt,  is  that  the  foot  of  the  radical  ^  was  already 
furnished  with  a  wedge,  with  which  the  diacritical  mark  of  short  u  would 
have  interfered,  if  it  had  been  attached  to  the  foot.^'  The  same  facts 
are  suggested  by  the  abbreviated  form  of  the  al];)habet  in  Roll  Ch.  xl, 

002,  ibid.,  Plate  II,  1.  42.  Here  the  characters  are  given  for  only  the 
three  vowels  a,  u,  it;  but  while  the  long  u  is  written  with  the  radical  ^, 
the  vowels  a  and  short  u  are  written  with  the  radical  ^.  Moreover, 
here  too  the  character  for  the  short  u  shows  its  diacritical  mark, 
indicative  of  the  sound  u,  in  the  form  of  a  curve  (similar  to  that  in 
Plate  I,  1.  1)  attached  to  the  head  of  the  radical  ^.^^ 


''"  This  reason  will  be  apprfciated  if  the  shape  of  the  cliaracter  for  the  vowel  w  is 
examined  in  the  word  uhu  iu  Pjafe  VI  6  a",  where  the  joosition  of  the  diacritical  mark 
at  the  foot  of  the  radical  "%  has  resulted  in  an  exaggerated  wedge. 

""  In  my  remarks  in  JKAS.  for  1911,  pp.  456,  459,  some  of  the  features  of  the  alphabet 
in  these  tables  were  not  yet  unfler^tl)od.  Thup,  the  character  for  the  short  vowel  u  was 
read  as  a,  owing  to  its  similarity  to  the  real  character  for  the  vowel  a ;  but  the  fact  that 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xxvii 

The  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  the  facts  set  out  in  the  foregoing 
evidence  is  that  in  tlie  seventh  and  eighth  centuries  a.d.,  if  not  even 
earlier,  the  practice  arose  in  the  Khotanese  area  of  Enstei'n  Turkestan, 
es]iccially  when  using  the  cursive  script  of  ordinary  daily  intercourse,  to 
write  all  vowels,  except  u  and  u,  with  the  radical  ■^  a;  and  further  that 
this  practice  optionally,  varying  perhaps  according  to  the  locality  or  in- 
dividuality of  the  writer,  even  extended  to  the  vowel  u.  It  seems 
probable  that  the  Khotanese  Brahman  Li-byin,  from  w  horn  the  Tibetan 
scholar  Thon-mi  is  said  to  have  learned  his  alphabet,  was  one  of  those 
scribes  who  were  accustomed  to  write  the  vowel  u,  with  the  radical  ■^  ; 
und  further  it  may  be  suggested  that  Thon-mi,  in  adapting  tlie  alphabet 
of  his  teacher  to  his  own  purposes,  with  logical  consislency  extended  the 
use  of  the  radical  ■^  to  the  long  vowel  u,  so  as  to  olitain  a  complete 
series  of  vowels,  all  framed  \\ith  the  radical  ■=??;  and  that  he  facilitated 
his  object  by  the  I'emoval  of  the  wedge  which  marks  the  foot  of  the 
radicals  in  the  Khotanese  script,  but  which  is  absent  from  the  Tibetan 
si-ri[)t.  On  all  grounds  it  cannot  be  doubted  th;it  it  was  the  cursive 
script  of  Khotan  to  which  Thon-mi  was  introduced  by  Li-bjin. 

In  Kiiotan,  as  we  have  seen,  two  types  of  script  were  in  use,  the 
Upright  Gupta,  which  was  uted  principally  in  willing  texts  of  a 
religious  character,  and  the  Cursive  Gupta,  which  was  em]')loyed  in 
writing  anything  of  a  secular  character,  and  generally  in  the  ordinary 
writinii-  of  daily  intercourse.  The  latter  ai'ose  gradually  from  the  former 
by  a  iJrocess  of  modification  such  as  is  observable  in  many  other  coun- 
tries. In  the  same  way,  e.g.,  arose  the  so-called  'headless'  (zt-we)  type  of 
the  Tibetan  script  from  out  of  the  original  '  headed  '  [u-chan )  type  framed 
by  Thon-mi.  In  the  same  w^ay,  also,  arose  the  Indian  cursive  'Kaithi' 
(ir  'Mahajani'  type  of  Nagari  from  out  of  the  literary  '  Devanagari ' 
Moreuver,  everywhere  that  process  of  modification  is  marked  by  the 
common  feature  that  the  formal  literary  type  of  script  has  a  tendency  to- 
conserve  old  ways  of  writing.  This  characteristic  exp];iins  the  fact  that 
the  Upright  Gupta  is  more  tenacious  in  the  use  of  the  old  Indian  vocalic 

the  cluiraclcr  for  u  is  wiitten  in  this  way  in  three  entirely  distinct  anil  independent  tables, 
shows  that  no  sctibal  error  is  to  be  thought  of.      See  also  the  Note  on  p.  xxxii. 


xxviii  GENERAL  INTEODUCTION 

radicals  of  /,  u,  e,  and  o.  Indeed,  in  the  case  of  the  radical  3,  o,  the  con- 
servatism of  the  Khotanese  Upright  Gupta  is  particularly  striking ; 
for  it  conserves  that  radical  in  a  form  in  which  it  had  disappeared  at 
an  early  date  from  India  itself.  Originally  the  inferior  curve  of  the 
radical  took  a  rightward  turn  in  India,  as  may  be  seen  in  Biihler's 
Indian  Palaeography,  Table  III,  traverse  6,  Nos.  viii  and  xiv  ;  but  as 
early  as  the  Gupta  period  it  began  to  turn  leftward,  ibid..  Table  VI, 
trav.  13.^^  But  in  the  Khotan  area  the  rightward  turn  persists,  in 
writing  both  vowels  o  and  au,  whether  in  Sanskrit  or  Khotanese  texts.^^ 
Another  graphic  feature  of  the  Khotanese  Upright  Gupta  may  be 
noticed  in  this  connexion.  The  diacritical  mark  of  the  medial  short  i, 
as  Professor  Ltiders  has  pointed  out  in  his  introduction  to  the  Sanskrit 
Saddharma-pundarika  (pp.  141,  168),  is  written  in  three  diffei'ent  ways, 
which  may  be  seen,  e.g.  in  Plate  XVIII,  3  a?--  "  di,  3  ffli^  ci,  3  J'^i"  U. 
A  somewhat  similar  diffei'ence  occurs  in  the  Kuchean  Slanting  Gupta 
script.  It  is  shown  in  the  inset  figure  to  the  medical  text  of  the  Weber 
MSS.,  Part  IX,  published  by  me  in  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic  Society 
of  Bengal,  vol.  Ixx,  Pt.  I,  Extra  No.,  1901,  p.  1.  The  reason  of  this 
difference,  whether  it  is  due  to  a  mere  whim  of  the  writer,^^  or  to 
exigencies  of  writing,  or  to  different  phonetic  values,  is  not  known  at 
present.  Though  it  occurs  also  in  manuscripts  containing  a  Sanskrit 
text,  it  has  no  foundation  in  the  phonetic  system  of  that  language.  In 
such  cases  the  fact  of  its  occurrence  indicates  only  that  the  manuscript 
was  written  by  a  native  of  Eastern  Turkestan;  and  that  if  it  has 
a  phonetic  implication,  it  points  to  a  phonetic  peculiarity  of  the  languages 


^'  See  also  Table  I  in  my  edition  of  the  Bower  Manuscript. 

=^  E.  g.,  in  the  Sanskrit  text  on  Plate  XX  &^-  -"i. — A  character,  practically  identical 
with  the  Khotanese  radical  for  o,  exists  also  in  the  Kuchean  script,  where,  however,  it  is 
taken  to  signify  the  consonant  v),  as  in  wasaih-pai  (I'late  XI  2  a^).  It  may  be  added  that 
the  Kuchean  character,  at  present  understood  to  signify  o  (as  in  onolme,  Plate  XI  2  a')  is 
identical  with  one  of  the  alternative  forms  of  the  Khotanese  character  for  au  (see  footnote  28), 
so  that  possibly  it  may  really  signify  au.  Whether  any,  and  what,  relation  between  the  two 
scripts  is  indicated  by  this  graphic  coincidence  remains  to  be  discovered. 

''  A  mere  scribal  whim  seems  indicated  by  the  fact  that  the  difference  may  occur  iu 
the  same  Sanskrit  word,  e.  g.  Plate  XVIII  3  6"  pasyati  and  2>asyati ;  Plate  XXI  iv 
<ntfadhara,  cittadhara. 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xxix 

of  that  country,  jDrimarily  in  the  Khotanese   languaue  ;    fur  it  occurs 
maiuly  in  Khotanese,  rarely  in  Kuchean  text?;. 

Another  obvious  indication  of  the  nationality  of  the  ^vriter  of  amanu- 
scri]it  is  the  occurrence  in  it  of  the  peculiar  modification  of  the  r  sound, 
transcribed  by  rr.  That  letter,  as  aljove  explained  (p.  xx),  is  peculiar  to  the 
Khotanese  languag-e,  and  is  entirely  foreign  to  Sanskrit.  An  immigrant 
from  India,  settled  in  Khotan,  might  acquire  the  Khotanese  suund  rr,  but 
it  is  hardly  conceivable  that  he  would  introduce  it  when  copying  a  text 
composed  in  his  own  native  Sanskrit  language,  while  it  would  be  almost 
unavoidable  for  a  native  of  Khotan,  Mho  had  acquired  a  kllo^^•ledge  of 
Sanskrit,  to  make  an  occasional  mistalce,  and,  vrhcn  eopjiiig  a  Sanskrit 
text,  to  write  rr  wliere  r  should  have  been  written  ;  e.g.  to  write 
'pi'rahliil  f{>v  2->r/iljJ/d  (Plate  II  4^^)  or  j^irrajaiiituih.  for  jirajriinfniii  (Plate 
XXI  3'i).  Accordingly  it  is  }ir;ictiea11y  certain  that  any  Sanskrit  manu- 
script in  Avliicii  rr  appears  was  written  by  a  nativ(^  of  the  Khotanese 
area  of  Eastern  Turkestan.  Moreover  the  frequency  of  the  oeeun-ence 
of  rr  ill  a  Sanskrit  manuscript  niay  serve  as  a  measure  of  the  proficiency 
of  the  Khotanese  scribe  in  the  knowledge  of  Sanskrit.  Thus  the  manu- 
script of  which  a  fragmentary  joage  is  shown  in  I*lale  XX,  Xo.  ."J,  must 
be  the  handiwork  (A'  an  illiterate  scribe  ;  for  e^  eiy  Sanskrit  r  (it  occurs 
nineteen  times  in  the  figured  page)  is  replaced  by  the  Khotanese  rr. 
And  this  inference  is  confirmed  by  the  fact  tliat  the  language  of  the 
fragment,  as  its  editor  Dr.  Thomas  rightly  observes  (p.  121),  is  a  '  curiously 
deljased  dialect'  of  Sanskrit,  ^'ery  possibly  the  text  is  the  scribe's  own 
composition,  and  the  manuscript  may  be  his  autograph.  Of  course,  if  in 
addition  to  a,  characteristieally  Khotanese  script,  a  mau\iseript  is  written  in 
the  Khotanese  language,  the  presumption  of  its  being  the  production  of  a 
nati\-e  of  Khotan  is  overwhelming.  Similaily ,  the  appearance  of  the  slant- 
ing type  of  Gupta  characters  in  a  manuscri]it  is  an  unfailing  indication  of 
its  being  the  production  of  a  Kuchean  scribe,  even  if  it  should  be  a  Sanskrit 
manuscript.  The  Khotanese  language,  so  far  as  my  present  experience 
extends,  is  never  found  in  any  manuscript  written  in  Slanting  (lupta 
characters  ;  nor  the  Kuchean  language,  in  any  manuscript  written  in 
the  Upright  Gupta  and  Cursive  Gupta  scripts. 


XXX  GENERAL   INTEODUCTION 

Glancing  over  the  Plates  accompanying  this  volume,  it  will  be 
noticed  that  they  illustrate  manuscripts  written  in  two  varieties  of  the 
Upright  Gupta  script,  one  stiff  and  formal,  the  other  free  and  easy. 
They  may  be  described  as  the  calligraphic  and  ordinary  literary  varieties. 
The  former  is  seen,  e.  g.,  in  the  manuscripts  of  the  Yajracchedika  and 
Aparimitayuh  texts,  both  in  tlie  Khotanese  language,  in  Plates  V-XVII ; 
also  in  the  manuscripts  of  the  Mahapratyahgira  Dharani  and  Saddharma- 
pundarika  texts,  both  in  the  Sanskrit  language,  in  Plate  IT,  No.  4,  and 
Plate  XVIII,  No.  1.  On  the  other  hand,  the  remaining  manuscripts  of 
Sanskrit  texts,  such  as  the  Chandragarbha  and  other  Sutras,  in  Plates 
XX  and  XXI,  show  the  ordinary  literary  script  in  various  degrees  of 
excellence  or  the  reverse.  The  peculiarities  of  the  calligraphic  style  of 
writing  have  been  carefully  noticed  in  Professor  Ltlder's  introduction  to 
his  edition  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika  fragment  (pp.  140-2).  The 
form  of  the  letter  Ih  may  serve  as  the  most  convenient  test  for  distin- 
guishing the  two  styles.  In  the  calligraphic  style  it  is  made  with  a  fine 
tangential  stroke  crossing  the  left  limb  (well  shown  in  Plate  II  'P-^^hhara), 
while  in  the  ordinary  literary  style  there  is  a  mere  angle  or  curve  (see, 
e.g.,  garlhd,  PI.  XX  3"^,  gamhUra,  PL  XXI  Z^^). 

Besides  the  linguistic  and  graphic  conditions  prevailing  in  Eastern 
Turkestan  at  the  time  when  the  manuscripts  discovered  in  that  country 
were  written,  these  manuscripts  throw  light  on  the  original  language  of 
the  imported  Buddhist  sacred  literature.  That  the  texts  written  in 
Khotanese  and  Kuchean  were  translated  from  a  Sanskrit  orioinal  seems 
obvious  from  the  fact  of  other  texts  found  along  with  them  which  are 
written  in  Sanskrit.  Tliat  by  the  side  of  the  Pali  Canon,  existing 
among  the  southern  Buddhists  of  Ceylon,  there  once  existed  a  corre- 
sponding Sanskrit  Canon  among  the  northern  Buddhists  was  well  known 
from  certain  surviving  portions,  e.  g.  the  Yajracchedika  and  Suvarna- 
prabhasa  Sutra  long  published  (see  pp.  109,  176),  though  the  exact 
relation  as  a  whole  between  the  two  Canons  was  a  matter  of  uncertainty 
and   dispute."*      It   was    also  well   known   that   the    existence    of  the 

^*  See,  e.  g.,  Piof.  Oldenberg's  '  Buddhistisclie  Studien '  in  the  Journal  of  tlie  German 
Oriental  Society,  vol.  Hi  (1898),  pp.  613-94. 


GENERAL   INTRODUCTION  xxxi 

Sanskrit  Canou  must  date  back  to  a  fairly  early  date;  but  most  of  it, 
imleiMl  the  most  important  paits  uf  it,  were  believed  to  have  entirely 
perished. ^^  As  a  result  of  the  modern  archaeolo^^ical  explorations, 
frag-iiients  of  the  lost  Sanskrit  Canon  are  coming  to  light.  The  present 
volume  contains  fragments  of  not  less  than  twenty-six  religious  texts 
(see  pp.  xxxiii-xxxiv),  of  which  twentv-one  belong  to  the  Canon  of  the 
Vinaya  Pitaka,  on  Discipline,  and  the  Sutra  Pitaka,  on  Doctrine, 
while  two  others  are  non-canonical  religious  poems,  and  the  identity 
of  three  more  is  still  uncertain.  Among  them  there  are  only  three 
texts  (viz.  Nus.  1'.^,  is,  19)  \vhich  were  previously  known, ••'■  all  the 
otliLTs  are  new  discoveries,  among  which  the  fragments  of  the  Stotras, 
or  hymns,  of  the  celebrated  ancient  p<ict  Matricheta  are  particularly 
interesting.  Among  the  numerous  fragments,  which  are  not  vet 
identified,  and  which  await  publication  in  subsequent  volumes,  additional 
canonical  texts  will  no  doubt  be  fortlicoming,  so  that  ultimately  we  may 
hope  to  possess,  at  least  in  fiagments,  a  considerable  ]inrtion  of  the  lost 
northern  Sanskrit  Canon. 

These  fragments  of  that  Canon  will  afford  much  assistance  towards 
the  settlement  of  two  still  debated  questions,  namely  the  relation  of  the 
northern  to  the  southern  Canon,  and  tlie  identity  of  the  original  language 
of  the  northern  Canon.  On  both  questions  I  am  disposed  to  agree  with 
the  views  of  Pischel  and  lh-(_ifessors  Oldenberg  and  Liiders.^'  It  seems 
to  me  that  the  fragments  favour  the  view  of  an  essential  identity  of  the 
two  Canons,  and  of  the  lancjuao'e  of  this  orioiual  identical  Canon  havinof 
been  the  vernacular  language  of  iMagadlia  (roughly  modern  Bihar)  in 
northern  India,  which  was  the  theatre  of  Buddha's  activity. 

NOTE. 
To  p.  xviii. — The  crucial  basis  of  the  Tibetau  tiadition  on   tlie   construction 
of  the  thirty  radicals  of  its  alphabet  is  a  sentence  in  its  Annals,  the  igyA  ■  rubs  •  y^al 
balji  ■  me  •  Ion,  or  'Bri^-ht  mirror  of  the  line  of  Kinds',  which  runs  ;is  follows: 

"*  S(.o,  e.g.,  Pist-hel's  '  Bruchttucke  des  Sanskritkiinoiis  der  Buddhistcii  aus  Iilykutsaie, 
Cliincslsili-Turkestrai ',  in  Sitzun^sberiolite  der  Kgl.  Piuiits.  Akademle  der  WisMnsthaften, 
1904,  vol.  XXV,  pp.  807-9;   and  Suzuki,  '  Asvaglioslia's  The  Awakening  of  Faitli  ',  p.  xi. 

^°  That  is,  wholly  known,  and  now  published.  Of  two  otheis  (Xo^.  13  and  21)  detached 
[)assages  win'  known  from  qnotations  in  the  published  text  of  the  Siksa-samuccaya. 

"  Sec  Pischel,  /.  f.,  p.  S07  ;   and  Oldenberg,  I.  c,  pp.  073  S. 


xxxii  GENERAL  INTRODUCTION 

hod  ■  skad  ■  daii  •  bstun  .  nas  •  ysal  ■  hjed .  ni  •  su  ■  rtsa  .  Jzi  •  drug  ■  rins  •  icos  •  nas  I 
sum  •  cu-  mdsa.d\ 

This  has  been  translated  by  Dr.  Francke  (Ep.  Ind.,  xi,  p.  267)  to  mean : 
'  Bringing  them  into  agreement  with  the  Tibetan  language,  they  formed  24  ffSal  hyed 
and  6  lii'iis,  altogether  30  characters.'  And  commenting  on  this  translation  he 
remarks  {I.e.,  p.  269)  :  'The  Tibetans  themselves  distinguish  between  two  types  of 
characters  in  their  alphabet.  One  type  was  taken  directly  from  the  Indian  alphabet, 
whilst  the  other  was  invented  by  Thonmi  Sambhota,  or  his  forerunners.  The  first 
type  is  called  gSal-bi/ed  (consonants),  and  the  second,  Rins,' 

The  objection  to  Dr.  Francke's  translation  is  that  he  seems  to  take  gsal  lyed  and 
riiis  as  the  names  of  the  Sanskrit  (Khotanese)  consonants,  and  the  Tibetan  supple- 
mentary consonants  respectively.  But  gsal  hyed  is  the  Tibetan  term  for  all  the 
consonants  of  its  alphabet,;  and  rins,  according  to  S.  Ch.  Das'  Til^etan-English 
Dictionary,  means  '  hurry,  haste  ',  '  speedily,  quickly  '.  Hence,  in  conformity  with 
Col.  Waddell's  view  who  (in  a  letter  to  me,  dated  11th  March,  1915)  translates  the 
words  drug  •  rim  •  hcos  •  nas  by  '  hurriedly  composing^  or  contriving,  six  ' ,  I  would 
suggest  the  following  as  a  more  exact  rendering  of  the  sentence  :  ''  Comparing  [the 
Sanskrit]  with  the  Tibetan  language,  [and]  quickly  remedying  [the  deficiency 
in]  the  twenty  and  four  consonants  with  six  [others],  they  framed  [an  alphabet  of] 
thirty  [consonants].'  To  bring  out  clearly  the  meaning  of  the  sentence,  it  may  be 
thus  paraphrased :  '  On  comparing  the  Sanskrit  with  the  Tibetan  language,  Thonmi 
and  his  associates  found  that  the  Sanskrit  supplied  them  only  with  24  suital^le  con- 
sonants, while  the  Tibetan  required  30  consonants  to  express  all  its  sounds  ;  but 
a  way  quickly  {riuf,)  occurred  to  them  to  remedy  the  deficiency  of  6  consonants, 
and  thus  to  frame  the  required  alphabet  of  30  consonants.'  This  quick  remedy  (rins), 
as  may  be  seen  from  Fig.  2  on  p.  xix,  consisted  in  simply  adding  a  hook  to  three 
Sanskrit  (Khotanese)  consonants  {ts,  tsli,  dz)  and  a  curve  to  two  others  {w,  .:)  ;  also 
by  inverting  and  slightly  modifying  two  more  (r  and  A). 

The  point  to  be  noted,  however,  is  that  the  Tibetan  alphal^et  really  possesses 
seven  supplementary  consonants  (/•$,  tsA,  dz,  iv,  ':,  r,  h),  shown  in  Fig.  2,  while  the 
sentence  in  (juestion  speaks  of  only  sis  {ts,  ish,  dz,  z,  s,  h).  An  explanation  of  this 
apparent  inconsistency  is  given  on  pp.  xviii-xx. 

To  p.  xxvi.  The  transfer  of  the  diacritical  mark  of  short  «  from  the  foot  to  the 
head  of  the  radical  is  not  restricted  to  the  radical  '^[.  It  may  be  made  in  the  case  of 
any  radical.  In  fact  it  is  a  general,  though  optional,  mode  of  writing  in  Khotanese 
script,  whether  cursive  or  upright.  See  my  Note  in  the  Journal  HAS.  for  1915, 
p.  487. 


LIST   OF   MANUSCRIPT   REMAINS  xxxiii 


LIST  OF  MANUSCRIPT  REMAINS  IN  VOLUME  I 

(Clcmtfied  an  in  Nanjlos  Catalogue  of  tJie  Chinese  Bxulilhid  Trijtitaka) 
I.     SANSKRIT    TEXTS 

A.      ViNAYA. 


PAGE 


1.  Monastic  Regulations  ...  .                  .         4 

2.  do.             do.            ,                   .         .                   .  .8 

3.  Teclinical  Terms  .          .                            .                            .  •                          12 

4.  Not  identified  text        .                            .                  .         .  .          .     166 

B.  SCthas  of  the  IIIxayaxa. 

(«)   Dlrgbagama. 

5.  Samgiti  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  545  (9),  col.  136)  .         .         .16 

6.  Atanritiya  Sutra 24 

[h)  Madhyamagama. 

7.  Upali  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  542  (133),  col.  131)  .         .         .27 

8.  Suka  Sutra  (         do.           do.         No.  542  (170),  col.  132)  ...       46 

(c)   Samyuktagama. 

9.  Pravurana  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  544,  col.  135)  .          .                 36 

10.  Candropama  Sutra  (  do.            do.             do.             do.     )  ...       40 

11.  Sakti  Sutra              (  do.            do.           do.            do.     )  ...       44 

C.  SfTKAS    OF    THE    ^MaHAYANA. 

(a)  Prajfiuparamita  Class. 

12.  Vajracchedika  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  10,  col.  5) 176 

(i)   Ratnakuta  Class. 

13.  Ratnarasi  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  23  (4-1),  col.  19)  .          .               116 

{c)  Mahasannipata  Class  (^lahavaipulya). 

14.  Ratnadhvaja  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  61,  col.  27)  .          .     100 

15.  Candragarbha  Sutra  (     do.            do.          No.  63,  col.  29)  .          .          .      103 

16.  Bhadrapala  Sutra       (     do.            do.          No.  76,  col.  31)  .          .          .       88 


xxxiv  LIST  OP   MANUSCEIPT  EEMAINS 

{(1)  Nirviina  Class.  page 

17.  Mahaparinirvana  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  113,  col.  39)         .         .  93 

(e)  Sutras  of  Duplicate  Translation. 

18a.  Saddharma-pundarika  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  Nos.  134,  6,  8,  9,  cols.  44-5)  139 

18^.  Another  fragment  of  the  same  text          .......  162 

18c.  A  third  fragment  of  the  same  text          .         .                   .                   .         .  132 

19a;.  Suvarnaprabhasottama  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  Nos.  126-7,  cols.  41-2)  108 

195.  Another  fragment  of  the  same  text         .                             ....  112 

(/)  Sutras  of  Single  Translation. 

20.  Anantamukha  Dharani  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  360,  col.  90)         .         .  86 

21.  Suraihgama-samadhi  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  399,  col.  t'8) .         .  125 

22.  Sitatapatra  Mahapratyangira  Dharani  (Nanjio's  Cat.,  No.  1016,  col.  223)  52 

23.  A  text,  not  identified    .         .                   97 

24.  Another  text,  not  identified  .                   .                  .....  121 

I).     Stotras. 

25.  Satapaiicasatika  Stotra.     Five  fragments                           ....  58 

26.  Catuhsataka  Stotra.     Three  fragments            ......  75 

II.     KIIOTANESE   TEXTS 

27.  Vajracchedika  (see  No.  12) 214 

28.  Aparimitftyuh  Sutra  (Nanjio's  Catalogue,  No.  27,  col.  21)       .         .         .  289 

29.  A  fragment,  not  identified    .........  395 

30.  Another  fragment,  not  identified  .                   ....                  .  400 

III.     KUCHEAN   TEXTS 

31.  Pratimoksa .         .  357 

32.  Pra^'ascittika  and  Pratidesantya.     Two  fragments  .....  365 

IV.  CHINESE   TEXT 

33.  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita        ........  390 

V.  TIBETAN   TEXT 

34.  Official  Document 402 


METHOD   OF   TRANSCRIPTION  xxxv 


METHOD  OF  TRANSCRIPTION 

Restorations  are  made  : — 

A.  In  the  case  of  letter?,  or  passages,  wbieli  are  extant  in  a  damaged  state,  or 

obliterated,  but  can  be  obviously  restored. 

B.  In  the  case  of  letters,  or  passages,  wliich  are  lost  through  breakage,  but 

which  can  be  supplied  with  more  or  less  certainty. 
Restorations  are  indicated  as  follows  : — • 

(1)  Both  A  and  B  letters  or  passages  are  printed  in  italic  type. 

(2)  A  letters  or  passages  are  printed  in  large  itiilic  type,  and,  if  badly  damaged, 

are  placed  within  round  brackets,  but,  if  obliterated,  within  square  brackets. 

(3)  B  letters  or  passages  are  printed  in  small   italic  type,   and  indicated   by 

the  breakage  mark  H. 

(4)  Letters  which  cannot  be  restored,  whether  in  an  A  or  in  a  B  passage,  are 

indicated  by  an  equal  number  of  crosses  (xx). 

(5)  Letters  which  stood  on  lost  portions  of  a  folio  are  indicated  by  an  equal 

number  of  dots. 
Use  of  hyphen  : — 

(1)  A  single  hyphen  indicates  the  combination  of  two  words  in  a  compound, 

e.  g.  (luvd-ilalUty  wdrg-opadem. 
(;i)   A  double  hyphen  indicates  the  sequence  of  two  words  in  a  sentence,  e.g. 
c-'^ei/am  (for  ca  iyam),  (IharmCih^-cliuiiijdH  (for  dliarmdii  sinijdii);  or  an  euphonic 
insertion,  a.  g.  i/aksehIiyo<-m  (p.  26,  rev.  1.  2), 
Sandhi  between  two  words  is  indicated  thus  : — 

(1)  When  two  vowels  coalesce,  the  compound  vowel  is  marked  by  a  circumflex, 

e.  g.  Meijmn  (for  ca  iyarti),  mdrg-opadeia  (for  mdrga-upaileSu). 

(2)  \Vhen  two  consonants  combine  in  a  corajiound  word,  they  are  separated  by 

a  single  hyphen,  e.g.  saiiii/(il--mmhoilhi  ]  Ijut  when  they  do  so  between  two 
words  in  a  sentence,  Ihey  are  placed  ajiart  without  any  sign,  unless  they 
have  suffered  some  change,  in  «'bich  case  tlieir  separation  i^  indicated  by 
a  double  hvphen,  e.  g.  fat  •vfl'/rc,  but  dharnidfucliuiiydn  (for  dlianndii  iunydn'). 

(3)  When  a  consonant  and  a  vowel  combine  between  words  in  a  sentence,  they 
are  sim]il_v  placed  apart,  without  a  sign,  e.g.  nam  era. 

Avagraha,  not  written  in  the  original,  is  indiiated  by  an  in\'crted  apostrophe; 
c.  g.,  p.  19,  j'everse,  1.  3,  ^ rydkaranti/aJi  for  avydJiaraniijah. 


xxxvi  METHOD   OF  TKANSCRIPTION 

Virdma  is  indicated  by  a  slanting  sti-oke,  which,  in  the  case  of  Sanskrit  texts,  is 
placed  to  the  right,  but  in  Kuchean  texts,  to  the  left  of  the  foot  of  the 
consonant;  e.g.,  p.  5,  obverse,  1. 1,  hhoktavj/arru^,  but  p.  358,  obverse,  1.  3,  ioa\t_. 

Interpunetions,  marked  by  dots  in  the  original,  are  represented,  as  the  case  may 
be,  by  large  single  or  double  dots :  see,  e.  g.,  p.  6. 

Typographical  distinctions,  adopted  to  mark  differences  in  the  original  characters 
for  the  vowels  i,  u,  o  are  explained  on  p.  178. 

ABBREVIATIONS 

Ane.  Khot.  =  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ancient  Khotan,  Detailed  Report  of  Archaeo- 
logical Exploration  in  Chinese  Turkestan. 
B.  Psch.  =  ;Mrs.  Rhys  Davids'  Buddhist  Manual  of  Psychological  Ethics. 
Cv.  =  Cullavagga,  vols,  xvii  and  xx  in  Sacred  Books  of  the  East. 
D.N.  =  Digha-nikaya,  ed.  Pali  Text  Society. 

Dh.S.  =  Dharma-Samgraha,  in  Anecdota  Oxoniensia,  vol.  i,  Part  V. 
Dvy.  =  Divyavadana,  ed.  Cowell. 
JA.  =  Journal  Asiatique. 

JASB.  =  Journal  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal. 
JRAS.  =  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society. 
L.V.  =  Lalita-Vistara,  ed.  Lefmann. 
M.N.  =  Majjhima-nikaya,  ed.  Pali  Text  Society. 
]\I."VY.  Dy.  =  Sir  Monier  Williams'  Sanskrit  Dictionary. 
Mst.  =  Mahavastu,  ed.  Senart. 

Mv.  =  Mahavagga,  vols,  xiii  and  x^-ii  in  Sacred  Books  of  the  East. 
Mvy.  =  Mahavyutpatti,  ed.  Miranow,  in  Bibliotheca  Buddhica,  xiii. 
P.Dy.  =  Childers'  Pali  Dictionary. 
PTS.  =  Pali  Text  Society. 
SEE.  =  Sacred  Books  of  the  East. 

S.P.  =  Saddharma-pundarlka,  ed.  Kern  and  Nanjio  in  Bibliotheca  Buddhika,  x. 
S.S.  =  Siksa-samuccaya,  ed.  Bendall,  in  Bibliotheca  Buddhika,  i. 
Suz.AE.  =  Suzuki's  Awakening  of  Faith. 
Suz.OMB.  =  Suzuki's  Outlines  of  Mahayana  Bviddhism. 
VOJ.  —  Vienna  Oriental  Journal. 

W.GIL.  —  Prof.  \\'intcrnitz'  Geschichte  der  Indisohen  Litteratur. 
ZDMG.  =  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschen  Morgenlandischen  Gesellschaft. 
Others  explain  themselves. 

In  references  raised  numerals  always  refer  to  lines  ;   a  —  obverse,  6  =  reverse ; 
as,  e.  g.,  PI.  XI  2  a"  =  Plate  XI,  No.  2,  obverse,  line  2. 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

Edited   by  A.   F.  Eudolf   Hoernle 

Most  of  the  fragments  of  manuscripts  dealt  with  in  this  section  belong  to  two 
consignments,  marked  by  me  as  Nos.  149  and  150.  They  were  transmitted  by 
Sir  G.  Macartney,  K.C.I.E.,  British  Consul- General  in  Kashgar,  to  the  Government 
of  India  in  Simla,  who  forwarded  them  to  me  in  1907. 

The  consignment  No.  149  comprised  seventeen  separate  packets,  of  which  those 
marked  V-XIII  contained  a  very  large  number  of  paper  manuscript  fragments. 
The  fragments^  now  edited,  belong  to  packet  X.  There  was  also  a  packet  XIV, 
which  contained  two  pieces  of  wood  inscribed  with  letters.  From  Mr.  Macartney's 
letter  accompanying  the  consignment  to  the  Government  of  India  (No.  903/15  of 
October  10,  1906),  it  appears  that  packets  V-XIV  were  given  to  him  by  Sahib 
Ali,  the  Indian  Aksakal  at  Kucliar.  With  reference  to  the  provenance  of  those 
packets,  the  letter  gave  the  following  information,  which  was  communicated  to  me 
by  the  Archaeological  Department  in  Simla  in  their  D.O.  No.  422,  dated  April  11, 
1907  :— 

'  Nos.  V-XIV  lia\e  been  found  in  Jigdalik  and  Kaya,  near  Kuchar.  In  a  letter 
dated  15.  Rajab  1324  H.  (September  4,  1906)  Sahib  Ali 'says:  "I  left  Kuchar  on  the 
26th  Jamadiulsani  for  Bai  with  a  letter  of  recommendation  from  the  Amban  of 
Kuchar  to  the  Aml)an  of  Bai.  I  reached  Jigdalik  in  one  day  from  Bai,  and  proceeded 
to  the  hills  the  next  day  and  worked  there  for  ten  days.  On  the  11th  day,  a  lot  of 
old  manuscripts  were  found  from  a  house.  The  next  day  I  returned  to  Bai  with 
these  things."  ' 

It  should  be  noticed  that  the  manuscripts  are  said  to  have  been  recovered  from 
a  '  house  '.  That  word  appears  to  be  usually  employed  by  the  natives  of  Eastern 
Turkestan  to  indicate  a  stupa ;  see,  e.  g.  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ancient  Khotan,  vol.  i,  j).  483. 
The  Bower  MS.,  the  Weber  MSS.,  and  others,  as  is  now  well  known  (see  the  Intro- 
duction to  my  edition  of  the  Bower  ^IS.,  chap,  i),  were  similarlj'  recovered  from  the 
interior  relic  ehamber  of  an  ancient  stupa.  In  India,  e.  g.  in  Benares,  it  is  the  prac- 
tice, when  manuscripts  have  become  old  and  damaged,  to  prepare  a  fresh  copy,  and 
consign  the  old  one  to  the  waters  of  the  sacred  river  Ganges.  In  Eastern  Turkestan 
an  analogous  practice  seems  to  have  obtained,  of  giving  to  old  and  damaged  manu- 
scripts an  honoured  burial  in  the  relic  chamber  of  a  stupa. 

578  B 


2  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

With  regard  to  the  position  of  Jigdalik  I  may  quote  what,  in  response  to  my 
inquiry,  M.  Pelliot,  who,  as  leader  of  the  recent  French  expedition  to  those  parts, 
possesses  an  exceptionally  accurate  knowledge  of  the  oasis  of  Kuchar,  wrote  to  me 
on  Jannai)'  4,  191:2  : — 

'  L'oasis  de  Ba'i  est  assez  loin  de  Koutchar,  et  ni  mes  notes,  ni  les  cartes  chinoises 
ne  m'ont  fait  connaitre  un  Djigdalyq  sur  son  territoire.  Le  nom  est  assez  repandu 
en  Turkestan  Chinois  puisqu'il  signifie  seulement  "I'endroit  des  oleasters".  Le 
stupa  en  question  doit  faire  partie  d'une  ligne  de  stupa  qui  se  poursuit  d'ouest  en 
est  au  sud  de  Bai  et  au  nord  de  la  chaine  du  Tchol-Tagh.' 

The  consignment.  No.  150,  comprised  eight  sets,  of  which  Set  VII  consisted 
of  rather  better  preserved  manuscript  fragments.  The  single  specimen  (Dharani 
fol.  ~,  p.  52)  edited  in  the  present  section  belongs  to  that  set.  The  whole  consign- 
ment was  transmitted  to  me  from  Simla  on  April  17,  1907,  and  in  the  accompanying 
letter  I  was  informed  that 

'  Nos.  7  and  8  [the  latter  set  consisted  of  wooden  tablets  with  letters]  were 
purchased  from  Badar-ud-din,  an  Afghan  trader  in  Khotan,  and  forwarded  to  us  by 
Mr.  Macartney  with  his  No.  790/15  of  the  25th  August,  1906.  No  information  is 
forthcoming  about  the  findplaces  of  Nos.  7  and  8.  Mr.  Macartney-  is  of  opinion  that 
they  have  been  picked  up  in  the  Khotan  Bazar,  and  that  they  have  been  found  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Khotan.' 

Sir  G.  Macartney's  surmise  is  fully  corroborated  by  the  character  of  the  scrij)t  of 
that  fragment.  It  exhibits  the  peculiar  marks  of  the  Indian  Upright  Gupta  script 
as  developed  in  the  literary  usage  of  Southern  Turkestan.  Most  probably  it  came 
from  the  ruins  of  the  ancient  Buddhist  settlement  at  Khadalik,  near  Domoko,  about 
seventy  miles  due  east  of  Khotan.  These  ruins,  as  Sir  Aurel  Stein  tells  us  in  his 
Ruins  of  Desert  Cathay,  vol.  i,  pp.  236-7,  used  to  be  visited  by  an  old  village  official. 
Mullah  Khwajah,  for  the  purpose  of  searching  for  manuscript  fragments,  by  the  sale 
of  which  he  hoped  to  make  good  the  arrears  of  revenue  due  by  him  to  the  Ya-mcn. 
The  marketable  value  of  such  buried  things  had  been  realized  in  the  country  as 
a  result  of  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  excavations  during  his  first  expedition  in  1901.  In 
fact,  it  was  his  old  guide  to  the  ruins  of  Dandan  Uilik  that  had  put  up  Mullah 
Khwajah  to  his  scheme.  The  fragments  which  the  Mullah  found,  he  used  to 
sell  in  Khotan  to  the  trader  Badruddin,  from  whom  they  were  purchased  by 
Sir  G.  Macartney. 

In  addition  to  the  fragments  of  the  Hoernle  Collection,  the  present  section 
deals  also  with  a  few  manuscript  fragments  of  the  Stein  Collection.  These  are, 
(1)  three  folios,  Ch.  vii,  001  B,  recovered  from  the  immured  library  in  one  of  the 
Ch'ien-fo-tung,  or  Caves  of  the  Thousand  Buddhas,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  town 
of  Tun-huang,  as  described  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein  in  his  Ruins  of  Desert  Cathay,  vol.  ii, 


INTRODUCTORY   REMARKS  3 

pp.  159  ff.,  179  ;  and  (2)  fragments  of  two  folios,  dug  out  from  the  ruins  of  an  ancient 
Buddhist  structure  at  Khora^  near  Karashahar,  referred  to  ibidem,  p.  372. 

For  the  identification  of  the  fragments  edited  in  this  section,  I  am  under  great 
oljligation  to  the  distinguished  Japanese  scholar,  Professor  Dr.  Kaikioku  Watanabe. 
With  the  kind  intermediation  of  Professor  E.  Leumann  of  Strassburg  these,  and 
other,  fragments  were  transmitted  by  me  to  him  during  his  residence  in  Strassburg 
in  1908-9.  It  is  solely  due  to  his  thorough  familiarity  with  the  Buddhist 
Canonical  Scriptures  that  the  identity  of  the  fragments  has  been  recognized.  In 
June  1909  he  submitted  to  me  '  a  Preliminary  Report  on  Studies  of  Khotan  Frag- 
ments ',  containing  his  identifications,  and  collations  with  the  Chinese  Canon. 
In  the  following  pages  these  '  Studies '  have  been,  as  far  as  possible,  utilized.  The 
paragraphs  based  on  them  have  been  indicated  by  being  placed  within  square 
brackets.  For  the  remaining  paragraphs,  especially  the  Roman  transcripts  and 
English  translations,  I  am  solely  responsible. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  the  fragments  : —  page 

I.  Vinaya  Fragments. 

1.  Monastic  Regulations.     Hoernle  MS.  No.  149  f,  (PI.  IV,  No.  1)  4 

2.  do.  do.  do.         No.  149  i  (PI.  I,  No.  1)    .         .         8 

3.  Technical  Terms.  do.         No.  149  ^  (PI.  Ill,  No.  5)         .       12 

II.  Sutra  Fragments.     (Hinayana). 

A.  Dirgha  Nikaya. 

l.'SarhgTti  Sutra.     Hoerule  MSS.  Nos.  149^  and  149^  (PL  III. 

Nos.  1  and  2) .         .  16 

2.  Atunatiya  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.  No.  149  f  (PI.  I,  No.  2)      .  24 

B.  iVTadhj'ama  Nikaya. 

3.  Upali  Sutra."    Hoernle  MS.  No.  149^  (PL  I,  No.  3)  .         .         .27 

4.  Suka  Sutra.     Hoernle  MSS.  Nos.  149  f  and  149|(P1.  II,  No.  3)        46 

C.  Sariiyukta  Nikaya. 

5.  Pravfirana  Sutra.     Hoernle  :\IS.  No.  149 1  (PL  II,  No.  1)     .  36 

6.  Candroimma  Sutra.           do.          No.  149  ^^  (PL  IL  No.  2)  .       40 

7.  Sakti  Sutra.                        do.          No.  149  i        .  .       44 

III.  Sutra  Fragment.     (Mahayuna). 

Sitatapatra  ]\Iahripratyangira  Dharani.     Hoernle  ]MS.   No.   1-"jO^  (PL  II, 

No.  4)    ....         ,  .         .  52 

IV.  Stotra  Fragments. 

1.  Safapancasatika  Stotra.     Hoernle  ]\IS.  No.  149  /-  (PL  IV,  No.  2),  and 

Stein  MSS.  Ch.  vii.  001  Bi-=,  and  Khora  005  6       .  .         .       58 

2.  Catuhsataka  Stotra.     Hoernle  MSS.  Nos.  149  ^  and  ^  (PL  III,  Nos.  3 

and  4),  and  Stein  MS.  Khora  005  «  (PL  XIX.  No.  1)       .         .  75 

B  2 


MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


VINAYA   TEXTS 

To  this  class  belong-  the  three  Hoernle  MSS.,  Nos.  149  ^,  149  ^,  and  149  ^. 
Judging  from  their  contents,  Dr.  Watanabe  considers  that  they  must  belong  to  some 
Vinaya  text,  though  he  is  unable,  either  from  the  Chinese  or  the  Pali,  to  determine 
the  particular  text  to  which  they  may  belong. 

1.  MONASTIC   REGULATIONS 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149 ^  (Plate  IV,  No.  1,  Obverse). 

This  is  a  complete  folio  with  the  exception  of  a  slight  damage  on  its  lower 
edge.  It  measures  290  x  86  mm.  (11§  x  3f  inches),  and  bears  eight  lines  of 
writing  in  the  Indian  Upright  Gupta  characters,  some  letters  of  which,  however, 
have  become  more  or  less  illegible  owing  to  the  ink  being  rubbed  off.  For  the 
same  reason  all  trace  of  the  folio  number  is  lost. 

The  type  of  the  Gupta  characters  of  our  fragment  much  resembles  that  of  the 
astronomical  treatise  of  the  Weber  Manuscripts,  published  by  me  in  Journal  ASB., 
vol.  Ixii,  1893,  p.  9,  and  Plate  I,  fig.  1.  It  belongs  to  the  western  division  of  the 
Northern  Gupta  script,  as  shown  by  the  form  of  its  cerebral  sibilant  s,  and  to  that 
variety  of  it  which  used  the  flat-topped  form  of  the  palatal  sibilant  ^ ;  see  the 
Introduction  to  my  edition  of  the  Bower  Manuscript,  chapter  iii.  The  early  Gupta 
form  of  the  letter  ;;;,  with  its  serpentine  left  limb,  shows  that  our  fragment  must  be 
referred  to  some  date  in  the  late  fourth  or  early  fifth  century  A.  d.  Attention  may 
be  drawn  to  the  peculiar  way  in  which  the  numeral  12  is  written  on  rev.  line  3, 
with  the  two  strokes,  which  indicate  2,  placed  one  above,  the  other  below  the  sign  for 
10,  the  usual  practice  being  to  place  both  strokes  below  that  sign.  It  occurs  also  in 
the  Slanting  Gupta  script,  see  e.g.  PI.  I,  No.  2,  1.  6. 

[The  text  treats  of  some  monastic  rules  concerning  begging  of  food  and  meals. 
In  general  these  rules  agree  with  the  tenth  chapter  of  the  Dharmagupta  Vinaya, 
fasc.  56  (Tokyo,  xvi,  7,  lb,  9-14,  see  Nanjio,  Nos.  1128  and  1131);  but  there  are 
diflPerences  in  details,  as  below  : — 

Sanskrit.  Chinese. 

10.  Bhakta-vrtta  13.  ^  y^  Rule  for  eating. 

11.  Bhakta-\'isarjana-vrtta  14.  W.  -^  y^        Rule  for  declining  food. 

12.  Pindapata-vrtta  15.  -g  ^  >|^        Rule  for  begging  food. 

13.  Pindacarika-vrtta  16.  "^  ^  A  )i  Rule  for  one  who  begs  food.] 


MONASTIC   KEGULATIONS  5 

With  the  text  of  our  fragment  may  be  compared  the  regulations  in  Culla- 
vagga,  viii,  4,  clauses  3-5,  in  Vinaya  Pitaka,  vol.  ii,  p.  214,  translated  in  Sacred 
Books  of  the  East,  vol.  xx,  pp.  286-8  ;  also  the  Suttavibhanga,  pp.  185  ff.,  in  Vinaya 
Pitaka,  vol.  iv,  Part  ii,  translated  in  SEE.,  vol.  xiii,  Part  i,  Patimokkha,  pp.  59  fF. 

The  text '  reads  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  sanmslditsivysim  ^   samprajanena  ^  gantavyarii   samprajanena  ^  sthata- 

vyarh    samjorajanena  ^  nisiditavyaiii    samprajanena  ^    blioktavyamn^ 
wpasfJi  ita-sm  rtina  avi- 

2  lisiptd-cittena,    prasadikena    iryapatha-sampamiena    su-sariivrten«    su- 

praticchannena  alpa-sabdena  utksipta^-caksusa,  yug^ntara-pre/i'.sv'v/re 
\_sci\-ga  nr(A  [v)  e\_n  a] 

3  (sa-prat)isena  {X)  s«-6Aaya-va^a-vartin«  nlca-manasa  rajobarai/a-sama- 

cittena   sthaviresu  madhyesu  navakesu  maitra-cittena  h.iia.-Gitttna 
(inul'aiirpja- 

4  [nenct]       pdr-hlinit r-jiutr a-.siimjnam        upasthap}'a       «sana-kusalena 

nisadya-kusalena  idam  ucyate  bhakta-vrttam-,  10))  Bhakta-visa- 

5  [ry(Mta]-vrtta(/J()   katarat^    (&?i,i)ksuna    agr/iitba    pindapato    visarjayi- 

tavyaA  na  ca  yasya  va  tasya  va  visaijayitavyah  ha- 

6  sya  pindciTpato  ddtavyah  matur   datavyah  pitur  bbratur  bhagi«i/a  ^ 

fZatavyali      jnatikasya      f/fttavyah      adhyarama-^/aiasya      gr^^ino  '• 
dd{ta)yjah 


^  Interpunction,  when  it  occurs  at  all,  is  indicated  either  by  a  single  dot,  or  a  double 
dot.  Thus  we  have  the  single  dot  in  rev.  11.  2  and  7,  and  the  double  dot  twice  in  rev.  1.  6. 
The  double  dot,  however,  occurs  also  very  frequently  in  its  more  usual  way  as  visarga. — 
As  the  first  of  a  conjunct  consonant,  r  is  written  always  upon  the  line,  never  above  it ; 
see,  e.g.  obv.  1.  3,  vartind;  1.  5,  visarjayitavyah ;  1.  6,  bhrdturbhdginyd  (7\.  IV,  No.  1). 
As  the  second  of  a  conjunct,  v  is  always  spelled  6;  as  in  obv.  1.  8,krtbd;  rev.  1.  6,  urdhham; 
1.  8,  dhdre,  &c. — The  quantity  of  vowels  is  not  carefully  observed  ;  see  below  notes  2,  5. — 
The  virama,  when  it  occurs  with  the  letters  m  and  t  as  the  final  of  a  word,  is  indicated  by  two 
marks ;  viz.  by  a  sort  of  prone  comma  placed  above  the  slightly  lowered  letter,  and  also  by 
the  left  head  of  the  letter  sweeping  in  a  curving  line  outward  and  downward  (see  PI.  IV, 
No.  1,  11.  1  and  5).  In  the  Slanting  Gupta  script  this  downward  curving  line  is  replaced 
by  a  straight  line  sloping  upwards  from  the  head  of  the  lowered  letter  to  the  side,  or  head, 
of  the  preceding  one  (see,  e.g.  PI.  II,  No.  3,  1.  2,  XI,  No.  2  a,  1.  2). 

^  Bead  sannisiJitari/am. 

^  Read  here,  and  elsewhere,  saiaiirajnaneud.     See  footnote  8. 

*  Read  avaksipta.     Sec  footnote  8. 

''  Read  bhaginyd,  ijrhino,  tirycig°,  indriyair,  hhagini-mdtriJcdih,  dnldtr,  and  vlthl. 


6  MISCELLANEOUS   FKAGMENTS 

7  u[p«^a](r)ino  datavyali  apakarino  datavyali  vyasana-prapJasya  glana- 

kasya  banc///ana-5addhasya  datavyali  yadi  stri  kuksimati  agaccliak' 

8  \ta](si/d  a])i  smr)t{in  upasthapya  datavya/i  tlrysigjoni  "-gatasya  asapo 

'da?a('//rt[/?]  XX  jya-pr6ksasya  datavyah  tac  ca  J.handi-krtha,  ucchesi-kr- 

Eeverse. 

1  tha    (idavi.    ucyaie)    hhakta-visarja,na,-vvttsim.\  11))     Pindapata-vrttaiii 

ka^aratv,  sa(t)J{)'{fya  bki)l-suna  pindapatah  ipra.tigrhi[_fa']v[iah  [s]dva- 
ddnm'n  sa\_ma\- 

2  tUdi{kaiu)   .sr/ v« a-supikam  saii^prajanena^  upasthita-smrtina  aviksipta- 

cittena    avikirata  -     tavaf^akan     ca    Tpreitigrhitavyal^ni]    yavattake 
{sa)mya[k-])u.- 

3  rti]r    hhavati     kJmn    ucyate    pindapata-vrttam^    12))     Pindacarika- 

vrttarii  katurat\  pindacrtri^ena  hhiks'ina,  sariipraj«r<e,va"  gr\amam'\ 
^jTa\iT\i\_s\itavya-i'n 

4  \_sa'ni\prajduena  ^  gantavya{iit  srt)i/)prajaneiia  ^  stha!!avyamv  upasthita- 

smrtina  aoi.l-Hi])ta-cittena  prasadike7'ia  lxy2i^&tJia-sa')'n[pa)nii[ena  su-\ 

5  \_samvr'\{te)na  sit-j^raticchannena  alpa-sabdena  itiksipta-caksnsa  yug^n- 

tara-prC'ksina  antargatair  mdri^air^  abahirgsitena  md- 

6  [nasejna    _25ascft^-purah    samjnma    urdhham-adliah    samjnina  X    m.dtr- 

matrikaiii   c/rstba   matr-samjnam  iipastbapayitavya :  hhagmi-indtr- 
kaiii  °  drsthd  hha- 

7  gini  ■'-samj-ndm  upasthapayitavya  duliitri  ^-xnAtrikdi'n  dfstbd  duliifr-so.ih- 

jnd  ^  itpasthapayitavya''  •  jrt'ndacarikena  hhil-sund  rathya-vithi  ^-  [c«-] 

8  (tvara-)  bri'ii\_gdtaycesa  dbare   dbara-salay cm    nimittam  udgrhitavyam 

p'fha-dtaram  upasaiiikramya   xti^^tl-sablda^ph  krtba  scmaii"  [uiandaih 
incmdam  drgadam  a-) 

TRANSLATION. 

(Clause  10.)  ....  he  (the  monk)  should  sit  down,  he  should  walk  with  circum- 
spection ^ ;    he  should  stand  with  circumspection ;    he  should  sit  down  with    cir- 

"  Kead  samjndm,  as  in  the  beginning  of  the  same  line,  and  see  samjnam  in  1.  6.  It  is 
the  accusative  of  manner. 

'  Eead  upasthapayitavya,  as  in  the  beginning  of  the  line,  and  in  1.  6. 

^  The  spelling  samprajanena  and  uthsipta,  for  correct  Sanskrit  sampraj^ianena  and 
avakdpita,  seems  to  indicate  clearly  that  the  Sanskrit  version  of  our  fragment  is  based 


MONASTIC  EEGULATIONS  7 

cumspection  ;  he  should  eat  with  circumspection,  with  fixed  attention  (to  the 
four  subjects  of  meditation),'  with  unbewildered  mind,  with  agreeable,  becoming- 
deportment,  well-guarded  (from  soiling  his  hands  and  feet),  well-covered  (with  his 
robes),  making  little  noise,  with  downcast  eyes,  looking  in  front  of  him  to  a  distance 
of  (no  more  than)  a  3'uga  (about  six  feet),  with  gravity,  with  reverence,  being  under 
the  influence  of  fear  (lest  he  should  commit  a  fault),  with  lowly  thoughts,  with 
steadfast  intent  to  suppress  evil  passions,  with  friendly  :md  benevolent  disposition 
1o  old,  middle-aged,  and  young  (monks),  with  kindliness,  attending  to  them  consider- 
ately as  to  a  father,  brother,  or  son,  behaving  with  propriety  in  (choosing)  his  own 
seat  as  well  as  towards  the  assembly  of  the  (other)  seated  (monks). ^"  Thus  runs  the 
rule  about  eating  food. 

(Clause  11.)  What  is  the  rule  about  declining  food  ?  A  monk,  should  decline 
alms-food  by  (merely)  not  accepting  it  ;  but  he  may  not  decline  any  one's  (alms-food) 
indiscriminately.  Whose  alms-food  (then)  may  be  (proper!}')  given  (and  therefore 
not  declined)  ?  A  mother's  may  be  given  ;  a  father's,  brother's,  sister's  may  be 
given  ;  a  relative's  may  be  given  ;  a  householder  who  has  gone  to  the  monastery, 
his  may  be  given ;  one  who  has  done  a  service,  his  may  be  given ;  one  who 
has  done  a  disservice,  his  may  be  given ;  one  who  has  met  with  a  misfortune, 
who  is  invalid,  who  is  bound  with  bonds,  his  may  be  given  ;  if  a  pregnant 
woman  comes,  her's  also,  fixedly  attending  (the  while  to  the  four  subjects  of  medi- 
tation ^),  may  be  given  ;  one  who  has  intercourse  with  an  animal his  may 

not  be  given  ; ^^  his  may  be  given  ;  moreover  (what  is  given)  should  consist 

of  broken  foodstuff  or  of  the  leavings  (of  the  food  of  the  giver).  Thus  runs  the  rule 
about  declining  food. 

on  a  vernacular  original.  The  spelling  utksipta  is  probably  a  scribal  error  for  otksipta, 
for  0  and  it  are  written  very  nearly  alike,  and  othsiida  is  a  barbarous  sanskrifcizing  of  the 
vernacular  okkldtta,  for  Simskrit  avuksijita,  downcast.  The  writer  of  iUksi]>ta  in  our 
fragmeiit  perhaps  meant  to  correct  the  mongrel  foi'm  otksipta ;  for  %ithsifta  is  a  correct 
Sanskrit  word ;  but  as  it  means  'upraised',  it  is  out  of  place  in  the  context  which  requires 
a  wiiid  meaning  'downcast'. 

"  On  the  four  subjects  of  meditation  {smrty-upasthdna),  see  Siksasamuccaya  (ed. 
liendall),  chap.  13,  p.  xxxvi;  Mabavyutpatti  (ed.  Mirouow),  No.  38,  p.  16;  Uharma- 
saibgraha  (in  Anec.  Oxon.),  No.  44,  pp.  9,  44,  where  other  references  are  given.  Only 
three  are  mentioned  in  Divyavadana  (ed.  C'owell),  p.  126,  1.  13  ;  p.  182, 1.  20  ;  but  four  in 
p.  208,  1.  7.  The  Pali  trrm  is  sati-pattUana,  Ciillavagga  (ed.  Oldenberg),  ix,  1,  4  (vol.  ii, 
|i.  240),  transl.  in  SBE.,  vol.  xx,  p.  305.  On  the  pecuhar  meaning  of  snirti,  see  P.  Dy., 
p.  466  b,  Dhammapada  in  SBE.,  vol.  x,  p.  27,  footnote. 

'0  iSec  Cullavagga,  in  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol.  xx,  p.  287,  clause  3,  where  it  is 
said  that  the  monk  '  is  to  take  his  seat  without  encroaching  on  (the  space  intended  for)  the 
senior  monks,  or  ejecting  the  junior  monks  from  the  seats,  or  spreading  his  upper  robe  out 
(as  a  mat) '. 

'^  Translation  uncertain,  the  text  being  mutilated  and  illegible. 


8  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

(Clause  12.)  What  is  the  rule  concerning  alms-food  (placed  in  the  monk's 
bowl)  ?  With  due  care  the  monk  should  receive  alms-food  into  his  bowl,  item  by 
item  (without  rejecting  any),  with  the  proper  amount  of  condiments,  and  the 
proper  amount  of  cooked  split  pulse,^^  with  circumspection,  with  fixed  attention  (to 
the  four  subjects  of  meditation'),  with  unbewildered  mind,  not  dropping  about  (the 
alms-food).  So  much  only  should  be  received  (by  the  monk)  as  will  satisfy  his  need. 
Thus  runs  the  rule  about  alms-food  (placed  in  the  monk's  bowl). 

(Clause  13.)  What  is  the  rule  concerning  the  collection  of  alms-food  ? 
A  monk,  collecting  alms-food,  should  proceed  to  a  village  with  circumspection,  walk 
with  circumspection,  stand  with  circumspection,  with  fixed  attention  (to  the  four 
principles  of  conduct),  with  unbewildered  mind,  with  agreeable,  becoming  deport- 
ment, well  guarded  (against  soiling  his  hands  and  feet),  well  covered  (with  his 
robes),  with  little  noise,  with  down-cast  eyes,  looking  in  front  no  further  than 
a  yuga,  with  his  senses  turned  inwards,  with  his  thoughts  not  turned  outwards, 
conscious  of  things  behind  and  before,  conscious  of  things  above  and  below  ;  seeing 
a  woman,  old  enough  to  be  his  mother,  he  should  address  her  by  the  name  of 
mother;  seeing  a  woman,  old  enough  to  be  bis  sister,  he  should  address  her  by 
the  name  of  sister ;  seeing  a  woman,  old  enough  to  be  his  daughter,  he  should  address 
her  by  the  name  of  daughter.^^  A  monk,  collecting  alms-food  on  a  high  road, 
a  market-street,  a  square,  a  crossway,  at  a  doorway ,i*  in  the  porch  before  a  door, 
should  take  note  of  any  encouraging  sign ;  having  approached  the  door  of  a  house, 
and  having  made  noise  on  the  post^^  (to  announce  his  presence),  he  should  slowly, 
softly  softly,  (withdraw)  the  bolt 


2.  MONASTIC   REGULATIONS 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^  (Plate  I,  No.  1,  Reverse). 

This  is  a  complete  folio,  with  only  slight  damages  round  the  margins,  measuring 
213  x71mm.  (8-|x2|-  inches).     It  bears  six  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta 

"  Eegarding  the  meaning  of  the  words  sama-iiktikam,  with  the  proper  amount  of 
condiments,  and  sdvadmam,  item  by  item,  not  rejecting  any,  see  Journal  HAS.  for 
1912,  p.  736,  also  for  1913,  p.  681. 

"  Eegarding  the  mode  of  address  to  women,  there  is  an  example  in  Sacred  Books 
of  the  East,  vol.  xx,  p.  345. 

"  Regarding  the  exact  meaning  of  dvdra,  doorway,  see  ibidem,  p.  160,  footnote  3. 

''  ]\Ieauing  uncertain  ;  perhajss  doorpost ;  not  a  walking-stick,  which  is  usually  called 
k attar a-danda,  stick  of  a  weak  or  old  man,  Mahavagga,  v,  6,  2  (p.  188,  1.  18),  Cullavagga, 
iv,  4,  4  (p. '76,  1.  30),  viii,  1,  2  (p.  208,  1.  25);  2,  2  (p.  210,  1.  36);  6,  3  (p.  217,1.  32). 
See  tlie  following  fragment. 


MONASTIC  EEGULATIONS  9 

characters,  which,  being  in  deep  black  ink,  are  perfectly  legible.  It  also  bears  the 
•lamaged  folio  number  90  on  the  left  margin  of  the  reverse  side,  facing  the  third 
line  of  writing,  and  showing  the  very  early  form  of  a  circle  with  a  cross  inscribed 
within  ;  see  BLihler's  Indian  Palaeography,  Plate  IX.  This,  so  far  as  it  goes,  tends 
to  confirm  the  early  date  of  the  Slanting  Gupta  script;  see  Journal  RAS.,  1911, 
p.  448. 

[The  text  refers  to  two  monastic  practices  [karma) :  one  relating  to  the  monks'  bed  ; 
the  other  to  the  permission  given  to  a  feeble  old  monk  to  carry  a  stick  and  string. 
The  latter  practice  has  many  parallel  passages  in  the  Pali  and  Chinese  ^^inaya ;  see 
Dharmagupta-vinaya,  Nanjio,  No.  1128,  Tokyo,  xv,  7,  S9b,  Sarvastivada-vinaya, 
Nanjio,  No.  1131,  Tokyo,  xviii,  63^.] 

As  regards  the  regulation  concerning  the  bedstead  of  the  monks,  a  fragment  of 
which  stands  on  the  obverse  side  of  our  folio,  no  parallel  appears  to  exist  in  the 
Pali  Vinaya,  The  nearest  parallel  to  the  regulation  concerning  the  use  of  a  staff  and 
string  in  carrying  the  almsbowl,  which  commences  on  the  reverse  side,  occurs  in  the 
CuUavagga,  v,  24  (in  Vinaya  Pitaka,  vol.  ii,  pp.  131-2,  translated  in  Sacred  Books 
of  the  East,  vol.  xx,  pp.  1 34-5).  Here  the  Pali  version  speaks  only  of  '  a  certain 
monk  '  (anfudaro  hldkkhv),  while  the  Sanslait  version  in  our  fragment  refers  the 
occasion  of  the  regulation  to  a  particular  monk,  named  Aryasoma.  The  former 
version  also  speaks  of  three  distinct  permissions,  (1)  to  use  a  staff,  (2)  to  use  a  string, 
and  (3)  to  use  both  a  staff  and  a  string-.  In  the  Sanskrit  version,  perhaps,  there  may 
be  an  indication  of  the  same  threefold  permission  in  the  fact  that  in  1.  6  only  the  staff 
(ihin<](i)  is  spoken  of  while  11.  2  and  4  mention  both  staff  and  string  [datu]a-^ikj/a), 
though,  of  course,  the  omission  of  the  string  {sikya)  in  1.  6  may  be  a  clerical  error. 

The  text  reads  as  follows : — 

Obverse. 

1  ncasaiii^    C(7tuSpailca!5am '   trayopaiica^arii    dvapaiicasam   ekapailcaaam 

panc[(;7]sa[';);]  v«rs[a]riam  &\_aiy ijii-] 

2  sa^aiii  grahayami  tatali  pascad  ekonapancasad  varsanam  astacatvariiii- 

aad  yavatam 

3  catvariilaad    varsanasi;    saiyyasanam   grahayami    tatali    pasca    ekona- 

catvari- 

^  Complement  \j^ahoapa\TiiaAaih;  also  read  catusiiaitcdsaih,  and  see  footnote  2.  As 
a  curiosity  it  may  be  noted  that  throughout  this  first  line  (but  not  in  1.  2,  paiicdsad)  satii  is 
placed  slightly  lower  than  the  preceding  rica,  and  attached  to  it  by  a  slanting  line,  exactly 
in  the  way  in  which  virama  is  indicated  in  Kuchean  texts;  see  e.g.  wa<^,  °fines  ,  °lyik^  in 
PI.  XI,  No.  2a,  1.  2. 


10  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

4  n^ad  yavataiii  trinsati-varsanain  anena  paryayena  avarsikanaih  ^aiyya- 

5  sana[7ii]    grahsijivim    tatah    pascac    chrama,^„nde^anam  ^    saiyy^sanarii 

gialiayami  sarvesam 

6  yatlaavrdcZ/uka[))t]  sayyasanawi  graha^/iiavyarii  tat  sarvesarh  viditam 

astu  11  ie{na) 

Reverse. 

1  antara-va(2J!fx)x  x//x(«/x)cx  rxt  yama.slo[?i«]  '  ii  samatva  {sr)[not]a  me 

ay;isma[n]ta[A.  a-] 

2  ha[)/i]    Aryasomosya  ^    bhiksur    glano    mahaWaksih    samglian    marge 

danda-^ikya-sanma- 

3  thh  vacami  sarhgho  me  Aryasomasya  bhikso  ^  glanasya  mahal[Z]aka- 

{sya) 

4  marge  danda-wikya-sa[;«]matiiii  sanmanyatu  •  anukampam  upadaya 

5  evam  dvir  api  trir  api  ii  te-sa  spikiye  yaskag^alya  ^  ii  srnotvi  bhadantali 

saiii- 

6  ghalr  ayaili  Aryasomosya  ^  bhiksur  glano  mahallakali  saiiighan  marge 

danda-sammatim 

TRANSLATION. 

Obverse.  (Monks  of  the  standing)  of  fifty-five,  fifty-four,  fifty-three,  fifty-two, 
fifty-one,  fi.fty  years  I  allow  to  have  a  bedstead  ;  (1.  2)  after  that,  (monks  of  the 
standing)  of  forty-nine  years,  of  forty-eight,  &c.,  down  to  (1.  3)  forty  years  I  allow 
to  have  a  bedstead  ;  after  that,  (monks  of  the  standing)  of  thirty-nine,  (1.  4)  &c.,  down 


^  Head  chramanoddeSdnmh ;  the  scribe  had  written  originally  chramandeidnami, 
which  he  corrected  by  inserting  no  below  the  line,  and  indicating  the  point  of  insertion  by 
a  cross  above  the  line ;  but  he  forgot  to  replace  nde  by  dde.  There  is  a  similar  correction 
inl.  1. 

^  The  first  half  of  the  line,  only  partially  legible,  is  a  remark  in  Kuchean,  and 
similarly  below,  1.  5. 

*  The  original  writing  was  Aryasomasya,  which  was  afterwards  corrected  aryasomo, 
and  the  syllable  sya  was  cancelled  by  two  strokes  placed  above  it.  Precisely  the  same 
correction  was  made  in  1.  6.  In  the  latter  case  the  whole  of  yaiii  aryasomo  hhi  was  rubbed 
out,  and  re-written  in  slightly  smaller  and  slenderer  letters. 

^  Eead  hhiksor. 

^  The  clause  in  the  middle  of  the  line,  between  the  double  bars,  is  not  in  Sanskrit  but 
in  Kuchean.     See  note  to  Translation. 


MONASTIC   KEGULATIONS  11 

to  thirty  years  ;  in  this  order  (down  to  monks)  of  no  year's  standing  (1.  5)  I  allow  tf) 
have  a  bedstead;  after  that,  novices''  I  allow  to  have  a  bedstead;  by  all  (1. 6),  according- 
to  their  standing,  a  bedstead  may  be  taken.     Let  that  be  understood  by  all. 

Reverse.  [^  An  aged  monk  is  to  go  respectfully  to  the  Samgha,  and  explaining 
that,  being  sick,  he  cannot  go  on  his  rounds  for  begging  food  [pinddya  ruritum),  he 
is  to  say :]  '  Graciously '  let  the  venerable  (Samgha)  hear  me.  (1.  2)  I,  Aryasoma, 
a  feeble  and  aged  monk,  beg  from  the  Samgha  in  the  regular  way  the  permission  (to 
make  use)  of  a  staff  and  sti-ing  (to  carry  my  bowl).  (1.  3)  May  the  Samgha  agree  to 
grant  to  me,  Aryasoma,  a  feeble  and  aged  monk,  (1.  4)  in  the  regular  way  permission 
(to  make  use)  of  a  staff  and  string  (to  carry  my  bowl),  taking  pity  (on  me).'  (1.  5) 
Thus  (he  is  to  say)  a  second  and  a  third  time. — He  is  to  beg  for  a  staff.^° — [*  An 
able  and  discreet  monk  is  now  to  lay  the  case  before  the  Samgha  and  to  say]  '  ]\Tay 
the  reverend  Saiiigha  listen.  (1.  6)  This  Aryasoma,  a  feeble  and  aged  monk,  begs 
fi'om  the  Samgha,  in  the  regular  way.  permission  (to  make  use)  of  a  staff.' 

Note  by  PnorESSOR  Sylvain  Levi  on  the  Kuche.vn  Clauses. 

Les  deux  phrases,  intercalees  sont  bien  en  koutcheen.  La  piemiere  est  en  trop 
mauvais  etat  pour  admettre  une  interpretation.  Les  seul  mots  surs  sont :  au  d^but 
te,  demonstratif,  et  a  la  fin  yamado{iia)  =  Skr.  IcHi/dni,  part,  fatnr  passif  au  nomin. 
plur.  non-masculin  (nom.  sing.  masc.  ymiia-\Ie)  da  verbeyaw  '  faire '.  Le  mot  antara 
....  couvre  la  transcription  approximative  d'un  mot  Sanscrit  que  je  ne  decrire  pas. 
La  seconde  phrase  est  plus  claire. 

te-sa  splkiye  yaskassalya 
=  Skr.  tena  dandoij)  bhiksitavyah 

te  :=  demonstratif  masc.  sing. 
sa  =  suffix  de  rinstrumentaL 
»inklye  =  '  baton  '  (?) 

yaskasjialya  =  part,  futur  joassif  de  yask  '  mendier,  demander  '. 
Je  pense  que  nous  avons  ici  un  morceau  de  kai'mavaca.     J''ai  retrouve  dans  les 
documents  de  Pelliot  plusieurs  fragments  analogues  ou  les  formules  sanscrites  sont 
introduites  par  des  indications  en  koutch6en.    Le  koutcheen  6tait  sans  aucun  doute  la 
langue  pratique  des  moines,  tout  au  moins  dans  la  region  du  Koutcha. 


'  Novice,  iramandddeia,  syn.  irdmanera.     See  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol.  xiii, 
p.  48,  n.  4.  " 

'  The  two  clauses,  enclosed  within  square  brackets,  are  added  to  explain  the  situation. 

'  The  text  has  sainatvd,  which  may  he  prakritic  for  samatvdl  (compare  pa^cd,  for 
2micdt,  in  obverse,  1.  3),  or  incorrect  for  sammatvd  (compare  rev.  1.  4). 

"  This  clause,  between  the  dashes,  is  a  sort  of  rubrical  direction,  which  in  the  original 
is  in  the  Kuchean  language.  See  Professor  S.  Levi's  note  ;  also  his  article  in  Journal 
Asiatique,  XI  Serie,  Tome  II,  pp.  311  ff.  (1913). 


12  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


3.  TECHNICAL   TERMS 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149 #g.  (Plate  III,  No.  5,  Eeverse). 

This  is  an  incomplete  folio,  being  short  on  the  left  side  by  about  one  third, 
as  shown  by  the  absence  of  the  string-hole.  Its  extant  size  is  about  230  x  78  mm. 
(9x3  inches).  It  bears  seven  lines  of  rather  faded  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta 
characters,  one  of  which,  however  (line  7  on  the  obverse,  and  the  corresponding 
line  1  on  the  reverse),  has  become  illegible  by  fraying. 

The  text  contains  a  list  of  technical  terms  of  the  Buddhist  Vinaya,  divided  into 
sections.  One  section  ends  on  the  fourth  line  of  the  reverse,  and  is  followed  by 
another  section  commencing  with  an  enumeration  of  the  various  ways  in  which 
a  Buddhist  monk  might  be  initiated  into  his  order  {njja.iaihjMdd).  It  reads  as 
follows  : — 

Obverse.  1 

■*■   K['-^]rD>'].^['']  l>(i'{l>i^u)yci'  (^p'^til'^'  i\tksei)i\,[iil)ijaiii  ^  harma  -^  \j)arr\vasaxy.x 
xxxxxxxxxx 

2  Qkij/jkarananiN,^  maii«pyarii  kimanusamsam^  avra{ha)narh^  puna(/i  kiih-) 

kftranam^^  tat-svabhav-ai.sw/fo/i  dana«i\ 

3  :¥|[pft]ttih   du.S]!iil-^pattih   adustu.l-£ipattili   sa-'pratilcavm.-^TpsiUih  aprati- 

/lYU'm-^pattih  sapatti-pratika(r)y^-a-) 

4  ^savacaniyam  karma  •^  sakili-karma  •^  anovadah  ^  anova^da-j^rasthapansi. 

anovada-visth«pana  "^  (a-) 

5  J/([r]rtvarana-stliapanam\anto-vustamv^'^  ffln^a(/i)-pakvarQ\  sva-pakvam^ 

hhiksu-pctkvsimx  ndgr\imtaui\''  apra-  * 

6  Jn-asthiA;ani  -^  puskarawi  <^  asta(ra7i)  anastarah  uddharah  anuddharali 

guruka(/i  jx()riskarah  la-  ^ 

7  lost  by  fraying,  except  a  few  superscript  vowel  marks. 

^  Interpunction  is  marked  throughout  this  fragment  by  means  of  a  prone  comma. 
See  Note,  infra,  p.  62.  "  With  n  (not  n)  as  in  Pali. 

'  The  original  apparently  has  ?i>'ihlnranan\,  ka  being  written  as  in  °kdni  obv.  1.  6,  and 
in  °kdudiii  rev.  1.  5  ;  but  the  apparent  a  is  a  mere  scribal  flourish  as  in  the  apparent  pd 
and  sdm  of  upasampadd,  rev.  11.  4,  5. 

*  For  dvarhanam;   ^Mahavyutpatti,  No.  265,  18,  has  dharhana. 

^  Skr.  anavavddah,  Pali  anuvddo. 

"  Barbarous  sanskritization  of  Pali  anto-vuttham,  see  Mv.  vi,  17,  3,  p.  211,  1.  10. 

'  Read  udgrhltam.  *  Probably  read  a2)ratigrhitam ;  and  laghukdh  pariskdrdh. 


TECHNICAL  TERMS  IS 

Reverse. 

1  lost  through  fraying,  except  a  few  traces   of  subscript  vowels  and 

consonants. 

2  |i  (so/t)     _pamca-^ata-vinaya-sa7ragitih     sapta-^ata-vinaya-saingitih  -^  vi- 

naya-samudclanam^ 

3  plpa  '  vana-kalpah  paryana  -'-kalpa/i  c7es«-kalpah  disa-kalpah  janapada- 

kalpah  civara-ka- 

4  l^'s  tu  painaptam^ii    ii  Upasarhpada  katama  -^  upetya  sampada}at4ti  u})a- 

sarhpada  "^  ax- 

5  y^anam\  upasarhpada  pancakanam  jnan-^/i/u'samayena  upasaiiijiada  '^ 

ayusmato  maha-(/v«-) " 

6  Jyinah   pra^na-vyakaranena  upa,sariij)rtda  •-.  ehibhi(/L'.??()kataya  upasarii- 

pada  '^  trdL.i-ykici{tve)[na] 

7  J[c?]es»  vi[?<a7/«]dhara-j^rtjyicamena  "  "^  .voiighena    ['i(]pasaiii[^xfc?rt]xxx 

xrxe  xxxxxxxxx 

TRANSLATION. 

(Obverse,  1.  1)  ...  .  the  act  of  suspension  on  account  of  false  doctrine  ;  probation 
.  .  .  . ;  (1.  2)  .  .  .  punishment  work;  degradation;  punishment  lesson;  tearing  off; 
repeated  punishment  work  ;  gift  sought  Ijy  one's  own  nature  (?)  ;  (1.  3)  ...  .  grave 
offence  ;  not-grave  offence  ;  offence  (done)  with  atonement ;  offence  (done)  without 
atonement  ;  offence  (done)  with  atonement  and  (subsequent)  offence  ;  (1.  4)  .  .  .  .  the 
act  of  issuing  a  command  ;  act  of  gcd~i/l  (?)  ;  censure  ;  initiating  censure  ;  preventing 
censure  ;  (1.  5)  ...  .  inhibiting  pravarana  ceremony  ;  (food)  kept  indoors,  cooked 
indoors,  cooked  of  one's  own  accord,  cooked  at  the  wish  of  a  monk  ;  (fruits)  picked  up 
(and)  not  received  ....  (1.  6)  ;  without  stoues  (or  seed)  ;  (plants)  growing  in  ponds ; 
spreading  out  (and)  not  spreading  out  (of  robes) ;  taking  up  (and)  not  taking  up  (of 
robes)  ;  important  requisites  (and  unimportant  requisites) ; 

(Reverse,  1.  2)  ....  rehearsal  of  the  ^'inaja  by  the  Five-hundred  (monks) ; 
rehearsal  of  the  ^'inaya  by  the  Seven-hundred  (monks)  ;  table  of  contents  of  the 
Vinaya  ;  (1.  3)  .  .  .  .  chapter  on  groves  ;  chapter  on  circumambulations  (or  formulas  ?) ; 
chapter  on  regions  ;  chapter  on  directions  ;  chapter  on  countries  ;  chapter  on  robes  ; 
(1.  4)  ...  .  is  finislied  ||  ||  What  is  upasampada  ?  Having  approached  (as  a  candidate) 
he  is  initiated  (into  the  status  of  a  full  monk).     That  is  (the  meaning-  of  the  word) 


■'  Head  \ka'\lpah,  miA  jiari/ai/cnia  or  pa ryajia. 

'"  Probiilify  suppl}'  mahaknliyapniiyu  pauca-jalihi-sata-ndji/inuh. 
"   For  tlie  restor;ition  see  Divyavadaiia,  p.  21, 1.  1 7  ;  protijantimesu  janaiiade^u  vinaya' 


n  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

npasampada  (or  initiation) ;  (1.  5)  initiation  of  ....  ;  initiation  of  the  Pive  through 
(their)  comprehension  of  the  (true)  knowledge ;  initiation  of  the  venerable 
Mahaka[syapa]  (1.  6)  ...  .  through  the  explanation  of  his  queries  ;  initiation  with  the 
formula  '  Come,  O  monk ! '  [initiation]  upon  the  threefold  declaration  (of  taking 
refuge) ;  (1.  7)  initiation  by  the  Samgha  ....  consisting  [in  outlying  localities] 
of  five  members,  one  versed  in  the  Law  and  four  others,  ... 

NOTE. 

On  idlcgeiMn~iya-h.tr ma  (Pali  ukJchepanlya-kam ma) ,  act  of  suspension,  see  SEE., 
vol.  xiii,  p.  236,  n.  2;  vol.  xvii,  p.  274,  n.  2 ;  also  Mvy.,  No.  265,  8.  On  parivdsa, 
probation,  see  SEE.,  xA'ii,  p.  384,  n.  1,  and  Mvy.,  No.  265,11.  On  mdndpya  (Pali 
■iiiduatta),  a  sort  of  social  boycott,  or  degradation,  for  one  or  more  days,  see  SEE.,  xvii, 
pp.  397  ff.,  and  Mvy.,  No.  265, 14,  The  etymology  of  the  word  is  obscure.  It  may  be 
suggested,  however,  that  it  is  a  compound  of  ntdna,  respect,  and  apya,  irregularly 
short  for  apyaya,  disappearance.  The  Pali  muiiatla  (wrongly  identified  with  mdnati-n 
in  P.  Dy.)  is  probably  Skr.  'jiulna-dtta,  withdrawn,  or  m.diia-dria,  injured.  On 
duxtalu iioiil,  see  SEE.,  xvii,  p.  316,  n.  2.  The  word  is  spelled  with  st,  while  Pali  has 
(Inttjialldpatt'i  with  Itji.  The  Sanskrit  form  suggests  its  real  derivation  (not  as 
in  P.  D}'.)  from  dnsta,  corrupt  ;  and  that  it  is  a  barbarous  Sanskrit  transcript 
of  the  vernacular  duttJivJIa^  from  diittJia  with  the  suffix  uUa,  see  Pisehel's  Pr.  Gr., 
§  595,  pp.  402  if.,  also  S.  S.,  p.  116,  note  5.  On  apratihanndpaiti,  see  SEE.,  xvii, 
p.  376,  No.  31.  On  savacanlya,  see  SEE.,  xvii,  p.  338,  n.  6,  p.  386,  n.  2.  Saklll-karma 
is  not  intelligible  at  present.  On  anovdda-prasthdpana  (Pali  anuvddo  piattJiapetabbo) , 
see  Cv.  i,  5,  6.  On  piyard rand-dJidpana  and  sdpaUi,  see  Mv.  i,  pp.  170-1,  SEE.,  xiii, 
pp.  340  IF.  On  the  terms  anio-ruxta,  down  to  puskardni,  see  Mv.  vi,  17,  3  ;  vi,  20,  2  ; 
vi.  32,  1.  2  ;  see  also  Prof  de  la  Vallee  Poussin  in  Ind.  Ant.,  xxxvii  (1908),  pp.  5,  6, 
n.  28.  On  dddra  (Pali  atllidrci)  and  luUhdra,  the  spreading  out  and  taking  up  of 
robes  (hithina),  see  SEE.,  xiii,  pp.  18  fl^.,  xvii,  p.  148,  n.  1,  p.  157,  n.  2.  'Yl)i& gurukdh 
pariskdrdh  apparently  refer  to  the  eight  requisites  of  a  monk,  see  P.  Dy.,  p.  342 1 ;  also 
Mvy.,  No.  288,  1.  On  the  two  miligUi,  or  rehearsals,  before  the  two  synods  of  the 
500  and  700  monks,  see  the  11th  and  12th  divisions  of  the  Cv.  in  SEE.,  xx, 
pp.  370  fi".,  386  ff. 

Regarding  the  terms  of  the  initiation  ceremony,  it  would  seem  that  our 
fragment  enumerates  them  in  two  sets,  and  in  either  of  them  in  chronological 
order,  those  of  the  first  set,  in  rev.  11.  4-6,  referring  to  Buddha  himself  and  his 
earliest  converts,  while  those  of  the  second  set  (rev.  11.  6,  7)  refer  to  the  successive 
modes  of  initiation.  On  both  points  the  first  Eook  of  the  Mahavagga  gives 
information  ;  see  also  note  1,  on  pp.  73-4  in  SEE.,  vol.  xiii.  As  to  Buddha 
himself,  he,  of  course,  may  be  said  to  have  initiated  himself,  upon  attaining 
samhodhi,  as  he  himself  explains  Mv.  i,  6,  28.  29.  This  '  self-initiation '  {svdma- 
iipasafiipadd,  Mahavastu,  vol.  i,  p.  2,  1. 15)  probably  stood  on  11.  4,  5.  The  surviving 
letter  a  at  the  end  of  1.  4  might  be  the  initial  of  avidyd,  the  first  term  of  the  '  chain 
of  causation'  (Mv.  i,  1,2),  the  insight  into  which  initiated  Buddha  in  his  'enlight- 
ment '.  His  first  converts  were  the  five  ascetics  in  the  deer  park  at  Benares  (Mv.  i, 
6,  6.  47) :  their  initiation  comes  on  rev.  1.  5.     The  next  converts,  in  importance,  were 


TECHNICAL    TERMS  15 

the  three  brothers  Kasyapa,  the  heads  of  three  Jatila  ascetic  communities  in  Uruvilva 
{Uruveid,Mv.  i,  15,  1;  ef.  i,  2.'2,  4).  The  oldest  of  them  was  the  so-called  Uruvilva 
Kasyapa,  w^ho  was  converted  after  a  series  of  \^'onderful  tests  and  questions  put  to 
Buddha  (Mv.  i,  15-21  ;  ef.  Mst.  iii,  424  ff.).  It  is  he  in  all  probability  who  is  referred 
to,  in  rev.  11.  5,  6,  as  having  got  his  initiation  in  consequence  qI prasiia-vydharana,  or 
explanation  of  questions  (Mvy.,  No.  244,  48),  and  the  remnant  of  whose  name 
must  be  completed  as  Mahakasyapa.  There  is  a  celebrated  monk  of  that  name, 
who  after  Buddha's  death  succeeded  to  the  headship  of  the  Order.  There  is  no  record 
of  the  circumstances  of  his  conversion  in  the  Buddhist  records  ;  and  this  otherwise 
inexplicable  fact  is  explained  if  he  is  identical  with  the  Kasyapa  of  Uruvilva.  By 
reason  of  his  being  the  eldest  of  the  three  brothers  he  would  naturally  come  to 
be  called  Mahakasyapa,  or  the  Great  Kasyapa. 

Regarding  the  modes  of  initiation,  it  was  originally  conferred  by  Buddha 
himself  with  the  formula  ehi  IjhikkJni,  Come,  O  monk!  (Mv.  i,  6,  32).  Afterwards, 
when  the  number  of  applicants  grew  unwieldy,  the  power  of  initiation  was  delegated 
by  him  to  his  Bhikshus  individually,  who  might  confer  initiation  on  any  applicant  on 
his  simple  declaration  of  the  three  mrana-gamana,  i.e.  the  declaration  of  his  desire  to 
take  refuge  with  the  Buddha,  the  Doctrine,  and  the  Congregation  {Jinddlia,  DJiarma, 
Sathgha)  (Mv.  i,  12,  4).  Still  later,  to  provide  against  abuses,  the  power  of  initiation 
was  withdrawn  from  the  individual  Bhikshu,  and  restricted  to  the  Samgha,  i.e.  the 
Bhikshus  assembled  in  Session,  to  be  carried  out  by  a  regular  prescribed  process 
(Mv.  i,  28,  3  ff.).  It  may  be  noted  that  the  second  form  of  initiation,  upon  the 
simple  declaration  of  taking  refuge,  was  originally  employed  by  the  Buddha  himself 
in  the  case  of  the  admission  of  an  Upasaka,  or  lay-adherent ;  and  in  that  case  it  was 
not  called  upumi'upadd.  Moreover,  before  the  rise  of  the  Samgha,  while  Buddha  was 
the  solitary  professor  of  his  doctrine,  the  lay-applicant  was  required  only  to  declare 
his  taking  refuge  with  two,  viz.  the  Buddha  and  the  Doctrine  ;  and  in  this  case  (of 
the  two  merchants  Tapussa  and  Bhallika)  the  admitted  ones  were  called  dvevdcika 
(Mv.  i,  4,  5).  It  was  only  after  the  rise  of  the  Samgha,  in  consequence  of  the  con- 
version of  the  first  five  {paficavaggiya)  Bhikshus  (Mv.  i,  6,  32  ff.),  that  the  declaration 
of  taking  refuge  with  three  was  required,  and  the  initiated  were  now  called  Uvdcika 
(for  the  first  time,  in  the  case  of  the  Setthi,  the  father  of  Yasa,  Mv.  i,  7,  10).  There 
were,  thus,  two  methods,  a  higher  for  the  initiation  of  Bhikshus,  and  a  lower  for  the 
admission  of  Uprisakas,both  employed  by  the  Buddha  himself.  It  was  the  lower  method 
alone  which  Buddha  delegated  to  his  Bhikshus,  and  which  they  were  now  permitted 
to  use  for  the  initiation  of  a  new  Bhikshu.  But  while  thus  delegating  to  them  the  lower 
method,  for  himself  he  retained  and  continued  the  use  of  both  methods  for  the  initiar 
tion  of  Bhikshus  and  the  admission  of  Upasakas  respectively.  Thus,  at  a  later  time, 
he  initiated  by  the  eld-hliikkhu  formula  the  fifty  friends  of  Yasa,  and  the  five  hundred 
Jatila  followers  of  Uruvela  Kassapa  (Mv.  i,  10,  4,  and  i,  20,  19  ff.),  and  admitted  by 
the  fcvdcika  formula  two  female  Upasikas,  the  mother  and  wife  of  Yasa  (^Iv.  i,  8, 3). 
At  a  still  later  time  Buddha  withdrew  the  delegation  from  the  Bhikshus  in  their 
individual  capacity,  and  vested  the  power  of  initiation,  by  means  of  a  regular  process, 
in  the  Samgha,  i.  e.  the  whole  body  of  Bhikshus  at  any  local  centre  assembled  in 
solemn  session,  though  he  still  left  the  power  of  admission  of  Samaneras,  or  novices,  to 
the  individual  Bhikshus  (Mv.  i,  54,  3).  The  quorum  at  such  a  Samgha  was  not  to  be 
less  than  ten  (SIy.  i,  31 ,  2  ;  v,  13,  2  ;  ix,  4, 1),  except  in  very  outlying  localities,  where 


16  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

the  quorum  might  be  vinayadliara-pahcama,  that  is,  consist  of  only  five  members, 
a  Bhikshu  versed  in  the  disciplinary  law,  and  four  others  (Mv.  v,  13,  3 ;  ix,  4, 1 ;  see  also 
Divyavadana,  p.  21, 1. 17).  Thus  counting  the  two  possibilities  of  a  Sariigha  separately, 
there  result  four  varieties  of  initiation.  These  are  enumerated  in  Mahavastu,  vol.  i, 
p.  2,  11.  15,  16,  as  (1)  svdiJia-U'pasampadd  (for  svayam-itpasainpadd),  or  self-initiation; 
(2)  ehibhiksnkdya  upa,  or  initiation  by  the  formula  '  Come,  O  monk  !  ' ;  (3)  daSa- 
vargena  ganeim  upa  ,  or  initiation  by  a  chapter  of  ten  monks  ;  and  (4)  panaa-vargena 
ganena  ti,pa,  or  initiation  by  a  chapter  of  five  monks.  In  our  fragment,  with  the 
exception  of  the  first,  all  the  above-mentioned  kinds  of  initiation  are  named ;  only 
for  the  more  usual  form  eJiibJiiJcsiikd  (as  in  Mahavastu,  vol.  i,  p.  2, 1.  15  ;  Divyavadana, 
p.  48,  11.  19,  20,  &c.)  we  have  ehlhJuk.'sukatd,  and  for  the  threefold  declaration  before 
the  Samgha  we  have  trakdcitvu.  The  name  svdma-upasampadd  does  not  occur  ;  but, 
as  above  suggested,  the  nature  of  that  initiation  was  probably  described  earlier, 
in  rev.  11.  4,  5. 

4.  SAMGITI  StJTEA 

Hoernle  MSS.,  No.  149^  and^  (Plate  III,  Nos.  1  and  2). 

These  two  pieces  belong  to  the  Samgiti  Sutra  of  the  Dirgha  Nikaya.  They  are 
fragments  of  two  folios,  which,  moreover,  probably  belong  to  two  different  pothis,  as 
shown  by  their  difference  in  width.  Pol.  ^  measures  about  145  x  75  mm.,  or 
5|  X  3  inches,  and  fol.  ^  about  180-225  x  85  mm.,  or  7-8f  x  3f  inches.  In  their 
complete  state  they  would  have  measured  about  310-325  mm.,  or  12-13  inches. 
The  writing  consists  of  six  lines  on  either  side,  in  the  Slanting  Gupta  character. 
It  is,  however,  especially  in  the  top  and  bottom  lines,  imperfectly  legible.  The 
smaller  fragment,  ^,  which  formed  the  left  side  of  the  folio,  originally  bore  the  folio- 
number  on  its  reverse  side,  facing  the  fourth  line  of  writing  ;  but  it  is  now  quite 
illegible,  being  almost  entirely  obliterated,  together  with  the  four  adjacent  syllables  of 
the  text.  The  folio-number  of  the  larger  piece,  ^,  which  formed  the  right  side  of  the 
folio,  is  lost  with  the  broken-off'  portion. 

[The  Samgiti  Sutra  contains  an  enumeration  of  the  Buddhist  Dharmas,  or 
technical  terms,  as  divided  into  ten  classes  according  to  the  number  of  items 
(from  1  to  10)  which  constitute  each  dharma.  The  larger  of  our  fragments. 
No.  ^,  contains  a  portion  of  the  third,  or  '  threefold ',  class,  i.  e.  the  class  which 
comprises  the  dharmas,  consisting  each  of  three  items.  The  smaller  fragment. 
No.  ^,  similarly  contains  a  portion  of  the  fourth,  or  '  fourfold  ',  class.  From  the 
subjoined  parallel  transcripts  it  will  be  seen  that  the  Sanskrit  text  of  our  fragments 
differs  not  inconsiderably  from  the  Pali.  The  latter,  the  Samgiti  Suttanta,  forms  the 
thirty-third  Sutra  of  the  Digha  Nikaya,  in  volume  iii,  pp.  207-71  of  the  Pfili  Text 
Society's  edition.  In  the  Chinese  Dirgha  Agama,  the  Samgiti  Sutra,  translated  by 
Buddhayasas,  is  the  ninth,  as  given  in  Nanjio,  No.  545,  col.  136,  and  Tokyo,  xii, 
9,  41  h.     There  exists,  however,  also  a  separate  Chinese   translation  by  Danapala, 


SAMGITI  SUTRA 


17 


Nanjio,  No.  938,  and  Tokyo,  xii,  10,  85  a.     The  subjoined  comparative  table  shows  the 
order  of  the  dharmas  of  our  fragments,  in  the  three  versions,  Sanskiit,  Pali,  and  Chinese. 


Threefold  Dhakmas,  in  No.  149|§- 

Sanskrit.  Pali.i 

B. 

23 


(a)  obv.,  1.  1,  rasi 

(b)  „    2-5,  tathagatasya 
araksaniya 

6,  pudgala 
6,  sthavira 
6,  codana-vastu 

6,  7,  agni  ^ 

7,  punya-kriyu- 
vastu 

(h)  rev.,  1.  1-3,  kamopa- 

patti 
(i)    ,,    4-7,sukh6papatti 


(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(f) 
(g) 


xxviii,  rasi 

XXX,    tathagatassa    arak- 

kheyya 
xxxvi,  puggala 
xxxvii,  thera 
xxxix,  codana-vatthu 
xxxiii,  aggi 
xxxviii,  puiiiia-kiriyii-vat- 

thu 
xl,  kamupapatti 


35 


27 
28 


xli,  sukhupapatti 

Fourfold  Dhaumas,  in  No.  149^^,. 

(a)  obv.,  1. 1,  apasrayana 

(b)  „     2,  dharmapada  xxiii,  dhammapada  18 

(c)  ,,     3,  saksT-karanTya 
4,  adhisthana 

4,  dharmaskandh: 

5,  dhatu 

5,  6,  ahara 

6,  vijiiana-sthiti        xviii,  vinnana-tthiti  28 

7,  rev.,  1. 1,  trsnot- 


(d) 
(e) 
(f) 

is) 

(i) 


pada 

(j)  rev.,  1.  2,  agati-gamana 
(k)  ,,     3,    prasna-vyuka- 

rana 
(1)    ,,     4,  daksinfivisuddhi 

(m)  ,     5,  sanigraha-vastu 
(n)  „     6,  yoni 
(o)  „      6,  7,  atma-bhava- 
pratilambha 


vui,  apassena 

xxiii,  dhammapada 

XXX,  sacchi-kavaniya 

xxvii,  adhitthana 

XXV,  dhamma-kkhandha 

xvi,  dhatu 

xvii,  ahara 

xviii,  vinnana-tthiti 

XX,  tanhupjjada 


xix,  agati-gamana 
xxviii,  panha-vyakarana 

xxxix,  dakkhina-visuddhi 

xl,  samgaha-vatthu 
xxxvi,  yoni 

xxxviii,    atta-bhava-pati- 
labha 


35 


19 


Chinese.^ 
D. 

28  =  >^ 

18  :h  @  iifs  # 

16  H  ^^^  2(5:  ^ 

i3pg^js 


12  0  ii  ft  m 


9  pg  @  ^  M 


'  In  the  numerical  order  of  the  PTS.  edition.  "  B  =  Bnddhaya^as  ;  D  =  Danapala. 

'  A(]Hi-dharma,  tlie  text  of  which  in  11.  G  and  7  is  very  badly  legible,  is  missed  out 
in  Dr.  Watanabe's  ^^otes. 

»,?»  C 


18  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  foregoing  table  that  the  Sanskrit  version  agrees 
neither  with  the  Pali,  nor  the  Chinese,  though  there  is  more  agreement  with  the 
former  than  the  latter.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  a  similar  amount  of  agreement 
between  the  two  Chinese  versions.  The  case  of  the  Atanatiya  Sutra,  which  is  noticed 
after  this,  points  in  the  same  direction  ;  for  it  is  entirely  absent  from  the  Chinese 
Dirgha  Agama,  while  the  Pali  and  Sanskrit  versions  of  it  differ  very  considerably. 
Dr.  Watanabe  would  explain  these  differences  by  the  suggestion  that  the  Chinese 
version  of  the  Dirgha  probably  belonged  to  the  Dharmagupta  School,  because  the 
translator,  Buddhayasas,  propagated  the  Vinaya  of  that  School  (see  Chu-san-tsan-ci-tsi, 
Nanjio,  No.  1476,  fasc.  4,  and  Tokyo,  xxxviii,  1,  83  5  ;  also  Nanjio,  No.  1117)  ;  while 
the  Eastern  Turkestani  Sanskrit  text  may  perhaps  belong  to  the  Sarvastivada  School, 
because  in  the  Vinaya  of  that  School  (Nanjio,  No.  1115,  fasc.  24,  and  Tokyo,  xvi,4, 53a) 
we  find  the  Atanatij^a  Sutra  mentioned  among  the  Scriptures,  mostly  belonging  to 
the  Digha  Nikaya,  which  are  appointed  for  the  consolation  of  sick  persons  ;  thus  we 
have  : — 

No.  7,  ^  g^  ^  ^  ^  ;0J   Mdhdsamayika. 

No.  8,  |J^  p:g  ip  Pf  ;^IJ  Atdndtika. 

In  the  Chinese  translation  of  the  Samauta  Pasadika,  which  has  been  identified 
by  Dr.  Takakusu  with  Nanjio,  No.  1125,  the  same  appointments  are  mentioned 
(fasc.  11,  and  Tokyo,  xvii,  8,  63a)  ^  g]   ^  :^  ^  ^  j^  |f  ^  ^  gg  ^, 

the  king  of  the  country,  or  any  of  the  great  alms-givers  (maM-ddnapati)  of  the 
locality  are  sick,  they  send  to  the  temple  and  request  the  Bhikshus  to  recite  incan- 
tations for  them  ;  the  Bhikshus  recite  for  them  the  Atanatika  Sutra.'] 

The  Sanskrit  text  of  our  fragments  is  given  below,  in  parallel  columns  with  the 
Pali  text,  extracted  from  the  Pali  Text  Society's  edition,  vol.  iii,  pp.  217-18,  and 
224,  228-32. 

(1)  No.  149/^,     Obverse. 


Sanskrit. 

1  xeka    dharma     prat[i](se^;a)t(e) 

sa(m)kljyai/a  ekd  dharma  pra^ 
tivdsayati 

2  dharmapadam   avyapadaA  sam- 

vaA;-smrtih  samvak-sama(^7ii|| 


Pali,  pp.  224-32. 

viii  ekam  patisevati  samkhay'  ekam 
[adhivaseti] 

xxiii  dhammapadaiii,  avyapado[dlia°]> 
samma-sati  samma-samadhi 


SAMGlTI   StJTEA 


19 


Sanskrit. 
3  caksusa :  sarhti  prajnaya :  s4ksi- 
kartavya :  ii 


4  xa  {adh)isthanani  skandbas  a^i- 

pa^raya^  ca  paj 

5  l-dhatus  tejo-dhatur  vayu-dliatU'N 

catvaral^aAaraA 

6  (y/~ift)nam  caturthali  catasro  vij- 

nana-sthitayah  rup6(j9a)| 

7  xr  bhik[s]or  va  hh.iJcsun[y]a,  va 

trsna  utpadyamana  uf^tpadyate 


Pali,  pp.  224-32. 
XXX  [pubbe-nivaso]  satiya  [s.°,  cutti- 

papato]   cakkhuaa   [s.°,  attha 

vimokka  kayena  s.°,  asavanam 

khayo]      panfiaya      sacchika- 

raniyo 
xxvii  adhitthanani  •  xxv,    [dham- 

ma-]kkbanda  •  viii,       apassa- 

yani(?) 
xvi  apo-dhatu,     tejo-dhatu,    vayo- 

dhatu  •  xvii,  cattaro  [ahara] 
vinnanam  catuttham ;  xviii,  catasso 

vinnana-tthitiyo,  rup<ipayam 
XX  civara-hetu  va  bbikkhuno  tanha 

uppajjamana  uppajjati 

Eeverse. 


1  [sa](««)-hetor  iti-bhav[d]tibhava- 

'hetos       trsna      utTp&^dyamdnd 
utpadyate 

2  rc/iandad  agatim  gacchati  dvesan 

mohad    bhayad    agatim    gafj 
cchati 

3  '  vyakaraniyah  sthapaniyah  pra^- 

uah  ciiksifasra 

4  xx(f?)a;/akatah  asti  iii^aiva  daya- 

kaf^;  ;'a/i 

5  vastuni  danam  priyavadita  artha- 

ca&lryw 

6  nih     catvarah    atmabhava-prati- 

lariibhah      asty      sdmalibhdva- 
pratilam 

7  hlialh   para-swaceta\_n(i\    ^ramati 

n«4tma-samcetana  aj^/i 


c2 


XX  [sena]sana-hetu    [va    l^hi""    ta° 

uppa°   uppa°]  iti-bbav4bhava- 

hetu  [va  bbi°]tanba  uppa[jja- 

mana  uppajjati] 
xix  cband^gatim     gaccbati     dosa- 

gatiiii     ga°     mob^gatim     ga° 

bbayagatim  ga'^ 
xxviii  ■  vyakaranTj^o  tbapaniyo  pa- 

fibo  •  xxxix,  Ca[tasso] 
xxxix  [visujjbatinojdayakato;  attbi 

[dakkliina]  iii^^va  dayaka[to] 
xl  vatthuni,    danarii    peyyavajjam 

attha-ca[riya] 
xxxvi  [yo]ni    •    xxxviii,      Cattaro 

attabbava  -  patilabba,        attbi 

atta[bbava-patilabho] 
xxxviii  para-sariicetana  kamati  no 

atta-sarhcetana,  a[ttbi] 


20  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

Note.  The  text  does  not  seem  to  be  in  good  order.  Thus  in  obv.,  1.  1,  one 
expects  to  read  elai'ii,  dharmam^  but  the  reading  ekd  dharmd  is  distinctly  legible. — In 
obv.,  1.  3,  the  reading  saMi  makes  no  sense  ;  it  suggests  a  reminiscence  of  the  Pali 
satiyd,  and  seems  to  be  intended  for  smrtya.  Also  the  apparent  Sanskrit  order  of  the 
four  terms,  kayena,  caksusd,  smrtya,  prajnaya,  differs  from  the  Pali,  which  has  satiyd, 
cakklmnd,  hayena,  panndya. — In  obv.,  1.  4,  there  appear  only  the  key-words  of  three 
classes  of  terms,  one  of  which  {apdSraya),  moreover,  should  be  already  enumerated  in 
line  1." — In  rev.,  1.  2,  read  cchanddd ;  the  apparent  akshara  rcha  is  a  badly  formed 
ccha,  see  below,  footnote  5  on  p.  29  ;  and  footnote  4  on  p.  61. — In  rev.,  1.  6,  the 
syllable  nili  is  evidently  the  last  syllable  of  iipapaduka-yonih,  the  last  item  of  the 
36th  class. 

TRANSLATION. 

[Obverse,  1.  1.]     (The  monk)  provides  himself  with  a  necessary  thing  ;  he  bears 

with  a  necessary  thing  ;  * [h  2]  the  virtue  [of  the  absence  of  covetousness], 

the  absence  of  malice,  perfect  recollection  (of  duties),  perfect  eoncentratiou  (of  mind);^ 

[!•  3]  tli6  need  of  realization  by  sight,  by  recollection,  by  wisdom  ; " 

[1.  4]  [four]  resolves,''  bodies  of  doctrine,*  and  observances,^  and [1-5]  element 

of  water,  element  of  fire,  element  of  air.^"     There   are  four  [nutriments] 

[1.  6]  consciousness  is  the  fourth.-'^  There  are  four  foundations  of  intelligence,  con- 
stituted by  form  ^^ [^^'  ^]  whether  in  a  monk  or  in  a  nun  desire  tends  to 

arise 

[Reverse,  1.  1]  for  the  sake  of  lodging,  for  the  sake  of  continued  existence  desire 

tends  to  arise,^^ [i-  2]  from  lust  one  passes  into  an  evil  course  ;  from 

hatred,  from  infatuation,  from  fear  one  passes  into  an  evil  course-^* [!•  3] 

(there  is  such  a  thing  as)  a  question  which  m&y  not  be  answered,  but  must  be  set 

aside. ^^     There  are  four  [purities  in  gift] [1-4]  [when  it  is  on  the  receiver's 

side,  but  not]  on  the  giver's  side  ;  (when)  it  is  neither  on  the  giver's  side  [nor  on 

*  The  reference  here  is  to  the  apa^rayas,  see  P.  Dy.  49  a;  Jfvy.,  No.  19,  80.  The  two 
necessaries  in  the  text  are  (1)  the  four  requisities  of  a  monk,  and  (2)  heat  and  cold.  Skr. 
prati-odsayati  =  Pali  adhivaseti. 

'■  P.  Dy.,  p.  118a,  where  the  first  term  is  anahhidhya-dharma]pada.  For  another  set  of 
four  dhavmapada,  see  Dh.  S.,  No.  55. 

"  Cf.  Mvy.,  No.  70,  3.  '  P.  Dy.,  p.  136;  Mvy.,  No.  80.  «  P.  Dy.,  p.  1176. 

^  See  footnote  4.  "  P.  Dy.,  p.  1216 ;  Mvy.,  No.  101. 

"  P.  Dy.,  p.  20a;  Mvy.,  No.  118.  i^  P.  Dy.,  p.  579a. 

"  P.  Dy.,  p.  496 «.  The  four  causes  of  trma  are  dress,  food,  lodging,  and  continued 
existence.     Skr.  hhavAtibhava  =  Pali  bhavdbhava.     The  Pali  texts  ignore  the  nuns. 

1^  P.  Dy.,  p.  17  a. 

^°  P.  Dy.,  p.  3286.  From  Childers's  explanation  it  follows  that  vydharanlyah  of  our 
text  must  be  understood  to  stand  for  avyakaramyah,  and  to  be  preceded  by  °prasno  ;  so 
also  in  the  Pali  version. 


SAMGITI  StJTEA 


n 


the  receiver's  side]  i« [1.  5]    [There  are   four]   elements   [of  popularity], 

liberality /affability,  beneficent  rule  " [1.  6]  birth."    There  are  four  re-obtain- 

ments  of  one's  personality;"  there  is  a  re-obtainment  of  personality [1.  7] 

(by  which)  consciousness  of  others  arises,  but  not  consciousness  of  self;  there  is 


(2)  No.   149^' 
Sanskrit. 

1  Trayyo  ra^ayah  mitJiyatva.-mjSi- 

to  va^ih  samyaktva  -  niyatop 
r«si/4|  •^  a(n/)'^  \yato  rd§ih 

2  araksarif^iiam  Tathagato  na  prati- 

cchadayati  kaccin  me  pare 
na  viUja^jiiyuh  ]catam[a]n[i'] 
tr[Mu'] 

3  y(«K(.)  pariwuddlia-kaya-samuda- 

caratayaiii  Tathagatah  pra^- 
cchadayet  kaccin  me  (pc6-) 

4  X  X  X  X  X  X  jBf/|  Tisuddha-vak-  [s]amu- 

dacaratayarii  Tathagatah  pray- 
cchadayet  ka- 


XX XXX   TftfJAf-aa'ata 


nama  pari- 
suddha  -  manah  -  samudacara  - 
tayam  Tathagatah 
X  X  X  X  X  |~;(^j  »)dgalah  sthavira-tri- 
tayarii  rasi^  codanfi  c#apy  arak- 
sitah  II  travo  (gna)pjjah 


li-dgnili)  trlni  punya-kri- 
ya-vastuni  '^  danamayaiii  sila- 
mayam  hhsi^vandmai/aih 


J.     Obverse. 

Pali,  pp.  217  fF. 

xxviii  Tayo  rasi,  micchatta-niyato 
rasi,  sammatta-niyato  rasi, 
ani[yato  rasi] 

XXX  arakkheyyani,  parisuddha- 
kaya-samacaro  Tathagato,  n- 
atthi  Tathagatassa  kaya-duc- 
caritaiii  yaiii  Tathagato  rak- 
kheyya  ma  me  idaiii  paro 
aniiasiti ; 

parisuddha-vacl-samacaro  Ta- 
thagato, n-atthi  Tathagatassa 
vaci-duccarilamyarii  Tathagato 
rakkheyya 

ma  me  idaiii,  &c. ;  parisuddha- 
mano-samacaro  Tathagato,  n- 
atthi  Tathagatassa,  &c. 
xxxvi  puggala  •  xxxvii,Tayo  thera  • 
xxviii,  rasi  •  xxxix,  Codana- 
vatthuni  •  xxxiii,  [Apare  pi] 
tayo  aggi 

[mo]haggi  •  xxxviii,  Tini 
puiiiia  -  kiriya  -  vatthtini,  daua- 
mayam  [p°-k°-va°],  silamayam 
[p°-k°-va°],  bhavana,  &c. 


"  P.  Dy.,  p.  110a. 

"  P.  Dy.,  p.  447a;  Dh.  S.,  No.  19  ;  L.  V.,  p.  35,  1.  9  ;  Mst.,  vol.  i,  p.  3,  11.  11,  V. 

'«  P.  Dy.,  p.  605a ;  Dh.  S.,  No.  90. 

"  Cf.  Dvy.,  p.  70, 1.  3 ;  B.  Psych.,  pp.  Ix,  175,  207. 


22 


MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 


Reverse, 
Sanskrit. 

1  xxxxxx|s^A['r]^[a]/i'         Z;[a]m[i]i-     xl 

[cu]s  vary  [e]  vas[e]  va[r]ta- 
yant[i]  taclyaiha  manusy[a] 
ek[e]  'nya[c]  ca 

2  xxxxx||(r;/e)  vase  vartayanti  tad- 

yatha  deva  nirmana-ratayah 
idaiii  dvitiya 

3  xxxxxg(se)    vartayanti   tadyatha 

deva  parinirmita  -  vam  -  varti- 
nali  iyaiii  tr- 

4  xxxxx?!i||(ve)kajena  pri[/2i]-sukhe-     xli 

na  abhisyandayariiti  paris- 
yandayaiiiti  pa- 

5  libliavati    spharanivaiii     vadvita 

vivekajena  priti-sukhena  te 
tena  sukhena  xx 

6  yka  iyarh  prathama  sukh-6papa- 

tti  santi  sedva  ya  i|xg(.s'e)vaka- 
yaiti  sa,ma,dhi 

7  llsjj/iarailiti   viisty   esaiii   kiiacit 

sarvatah  kayad  asphutam.  bha- 
vatUiM,isphara(ni)fjiya!h  yaduta 


Pali,  pp.  217  ff. 

[paccupa]tthita-kama,  te  paccu- 
patthitesu  kamesu  vasaiii  va- 
ttenti  seyyatha  pi  mamissa 
ekacce  ca 

kamesu  vasaiii  vattenti  sey- 
yatha pi  deva  nimmana-rati, 
ayaiii  dutiya 

[vajsarii  vattenti  seyyatha  pi 
deva  paranimmita-vasa-vatti, 
ayaiii  ta[tiya] 

[Tisso  sukhupapattiyo  ;  santi 
satta  Tippadetva  uppadetva 
sukhaila  viharanti,  seyyatha  pi 
deva  Brahma-J 


[kayi]ka  ayam  pathama  sukh- 
upapatti,  santi  satta  [sukhena 
abhisanna  parisunna  paripura 
parippliuta  te  kadaci  karahaci 
udanaiii  udanenti  aho  sukham 
aho  sukhan  ti,  seyyatha,  &c.] 


Note.  The  Sanskrit  text,  as  will  be  seen,  differs  very  considerably,  especially 
with  reg-ard  to  the  41st  dharma,  rev.  11.  4-7. — In  obv.  1.  6,  there  is  a  similar  case  to 
that  noticed  in  the  preceding  fragment,  obv.  1.  4  ;  only  the  key-words  st/iavira  and 
codand  are  mentioned,  as  well  as  rdsi  and  araksita  which  are  already  enumerated 
in  lines  1  and  2.  The  two  eases  are  so  much  alike,  that,  after  all,  the  two  fragments 
may  belong  to  the  same  pothi. — The  Pali  version  enumerates  two  classes  oi  agni, 
Nos.  xxii  and  xxxiii.  It  is  the  former  class  which  the  surviving  traces,  obv.  11.  6 
and  7,  seem  to  indicate  as  mentioned  in  our  fragment. — As  to  the  class,  called  arak- 
samya  or  araksita  in  our  fragment  (obv.  11.  2,  6),  the  Sanskrit  reading,  with  the 
negative  prefix  a,  is  supported  by  the  Pali  reading  arakkheyydni  (see  footnote  3,  in 
PTS.  edition,  p.  217),  which  gives  a  very  good  sense  (see  the  translation  below). — 
Attention  may  be  called  to  the  scribe's  correction  in  11.  3  and  4  of  the  obverse,  where 


SAMGITI   SUTEA  2E 

the  syllable  ti  had  been  inadvertently  omitted ;  it  was  afterwards  inserted  below  the 
line,  and  the  place  of  insertion  indicated  by  a  cross  above  the  line. — With  the  help 
of  collating  the  extant  traces  and  allowing  for  the  probable  number  (38-40)  of 
syllables  in  a  line  as  well  as  for  the  string-holes,  it  is  possible  pi'actically  to  reconstitute 
the  Sanskrit  text  of  classes  xxx  and  xl,  which  do  not  materially  differ  from  the 
Pali  ;  but  that  of  class  xli,  which  differs  considerably  from  the  Pali,  cannot  be 
satisfactorily  restored,  though  some  phrases  of  it  occur  in  the  Mahavastu  (vols,  i, 
p.  228,  11.  4,  5,  and  ii,  p.  131, 1.  17,  p.  132,  1.  1 ;  see  also  Childers's  Pali  Dictionary, 
under  JMiia,  p.  169,  and  Samyukta  Nikaya,  vol.  ii,  p.  211).  The  reconstituted  text 
would  run  as  follows : — 

Obverse,  11.  2-5,  xxx.  Trini  Tathagatasya  araksanT[l.  2]yani  I  Tathagato  na 
praticchadayati  kaccin  me  pare  na  vijaniyuh  katamani  trini  [some  words  missing] 
tasmat  Tathagata  nama  ;  [1.  3]  parisuddha-kaya-samudacaratayam  Tathagatah 
praticchadayet  kaccin  me  pa[l.  4]re  na  vijaniyuh  tasmat  Tathagata  nama  ;  pari- 
suddha-vak-samudacaratayarh  Tathagatah  praticchadayet  ka[l.  5]ccin  me  pave  na 
vijaniyuh  tasmat  Tathagata  nama ;  parisuddba-manah-samudacaratayam  Tathagatah 
praticchadayet  kaccin  me  pare  na  vijaniyuh.     (1.  6)  Trayah  pudgalah,  &c. 

Reverse,  11.  1-3,  xl.  Tisrah  kum-opapattayah  ;  santi  sattvah  kam-upa[l.  Ijsthitah 
kamik-aisvarye  vase  vartayanti,  tadyatha  manusya  eke  'nyac  ca  [1.  2]  deva  eke 
Vinipatikfi,  iyam  prathama  kam-opapattih  ;  santi  sattvah  kam-opasthitah  kamik- 
aisvarye  vase  vartayanti,  tadyatha  deva  nirmana-ratayah,  iyam  [orig.  idam]  dvitiya 
[1.  3]  kam-opapattih ;  santi  sattvah  kam-opasthitah  kamik-aisvarye  vase  vartayanti, 
tadyatha  deva  para-nirmita-vasa-vartinah  [orig.  parinirmita°],  iyam  tri[].  3]tiya 
[orig.  trtlya]  kam-opapattih  II  xli.  Tisrah  sukh-opapattayah  ;  santi  sattva  ye  vivekajena 
priti-sukhena  abhisyandayamti  parisyandayamti  pa[l.  5]ripuryamte  spharamti  (yesam 
kiihcit  ?)  bhavati  spharaniyaih  yaduta  vivekajena  priti-sukhena  te  tena  sukhena 
(u[l.  6]tpadya  sukhe  viharanti  ?),  tadyatha  deva  brahma-kayika  ;  iyam  prathama 
sukh-opapattih.  Santi  sattva  ya  ix(se)vakayam  sami5,dhi[l.  7]jena  priti-sukhena 
abhisyandayamti  parisyandayamti  spharamti  (v^^asty)  esaiii  kincit  sarvatah  kayad 
asphutam  bhavati  spharaniyam  yaduta,  &c. 

TRANSLATION.^" 

[Obverse,  1.  1.]  xxx.  There  are  three  masses  :  '  mass  of  absolute  or  undoubted 
falsehood,  mass  of  absolute  truth,  and  accumulation  which  is  neither  one  nor  the 
other,  but  a  congeries  of  truth  and  falsehood  '.-*  [11. 2-5]  There  are  three  things  that 
need  not  be  guarded  by  a  Tathagata.^^  A  Tathagata  does  not  hide  (any  wrong, 
thinking)  '  let's  hope  others  did  not  observe  me '.  What  are  the  three  things  ?  [1.  3] 
His  conduct  being  altogether  pure  in  act,  how  should  a  Tathagata  have  to  hide  (any 
wrong,  thinking)  '  let's  hope  others  did  not  observe  me '.  That  is  why  they  are 
called  Tathagatas.     [1.  4]  His  conduct  being  altogether  pure  in  word,  how  should 

'■">  Based  oai  the  re-constituted  text ;  see  preceding  Note. 

"  P.  Dy.,  p.  4016;  Mst.,  vol.  iii,  p.  318,  1.  5,  and  vol.  i,  p.  517,  note;  Mvy., 
No.  95,  11-13. 

-=  P.  Dy.,  p.  546.     See  Note  on  p.  22. 


24  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

a  Tathagata  have  to  hide  (any  wrong,  thinking)  '  let's  hope  others  did  not  observe 
me  '.  [1.  5]  That  is  why  they  are  called  Tathagatas.  His  conduct  being  altogether 
pure  in  thought,  how  should  a  Tathagata  [1.  6]  have  to  hide  (any  wrong,  thinking) 
'  let's  hope  others  did  not  observe  me '.  There  are  three  kinds  of  individuals;^'  there 
is  a  triad  of  elders/*  and  (similarly  triads  of)  masses,^^  causes  of  accusation,^'  and 
things  that  are  not  guarded.^^  There  are  three  kinds  of  fire  ^^ :  [1.  7]  fire  of  passion, 
fire  of  hatred,  fire  of  infatuation.  There  are  three  ways  of  acquiring  religious  merit : 
that  which  consists  in  almsgiving,  that  which  consists  in  virtuous  living,  that  which 
consists  in  spiritual  meditation.^' 

[Reverse,  1.  l.J  xl.  There  are  three  kinds  of  sensuous  existence  :  there  are 
beings,  subject  to  sensuous  desires,  that  live  under  the  impulse  of  the  power  of 
sensuous  desire.  Some  of  them  are  human  beings,  others  [1.  2]  are  those  devas  that 
are  not  in  any  of  the  states  of  penal  existence.  This  is  the  first  kind  of  sensuous 
existence.  There  are  beings,  subject  to  sensuous  desires,  that  live  under  the  impulse 
of  the  power  of  sensuous  desire.  These  are  those  devas  that  enjoy  extra-pleasures  of 
their  own  devising.  This  is  the  second  [1.  3]  kind  of  sensuous  existence.  There  are 
beings,  subject  to  sensuous  desire,  that  live  under  the  impulse  of  the  power  of 
sensuous  desire.  These  are  those  devas  that  live  under  the  influence  of  (pleasures) 
devised  by  others.  This  is  the  third  [1.  4]  kind  of  sensuous  existence.^^  xli.  There 
are  three  kinds  of  blissful  existence  :  there  are  beings  that  are  merged,  plunged,  and 
thrilled  in  the  bliss  of  pleasurable  sensation  born  of  reason,  whose  [1.  5]  thrill,  that 
is  to  say,  is  through  the  bliss  of  pleasurable  sensation  born  of  reason ;  they  being 
born  with  that  bliss  live  in  that  bliss.  These  are  the  devas  endowed  with  bodies  of 
the  Brahma-world.  [1.  6]  This  is  the  first  kind  of  blissful  existence.  There  are 
beings  that  are  merged,  plunged,  and  thrilled  in  the  bliss  of  pleasurable  sensation 
born  of  meditation,  [1.  7]  in  whose  ease  there  is  some  thrill  altogether  unafiected  by 
a  body,  that  is  to  say,  &c.^'  [These  are  the  AhMsvara,  or  Shining  Devas.  This  is  the 
second  kind  of  blissful  existence,  &c.] 


5.  ATANATIYA  SUTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149|  (Plate  I,  No.  2,  Eeverse). 

This  fragment  comprises  nearly  the  whole  of  the  right  half  of  a  folio.     In  its 
present  condition  it  measures  185-210  x  80  mm.,  or  7|-8i  x  3-|-  inches.     Its  lines 


^  P.  Dy.,  p.  390o.  '^  P.  Dy.,  p.  504a. 

■'"  P.  Dy.,  p.  1076.  2"  P.  Dy.,  p.  18a. 

"'  P.  Dy.,  p.  393  a;  cf.  L.V.,  p.  10, 1.  5  ;    Mvy.,  No.  93  ;    S.  >S.,  p.  138,  note  2. 
P.  Dy.,  p.  182  a.  2=  P.  Dy.,  p.  488a. 


28 


ATANATIYA    SUTRA  26 

comprise  from  22  to  27  syllables  [ahara),  and  from  the  fact  of  its  text  containing 
some  sloka  verses,  it  can  be  calculated  that  about  as  many  syllables  are  missing  on 
the  left  side  of  the  fragment.  The  entire  folio,  accordingly,  must  have  had  a  length 
of  about  15  or  16  inches  (or  385-410  mm.),  the  lines  comprising  from  45  to  48 
syllables.  The  folio-number  has  disappeared  with  the  left  side  ;  and  it  is,  therefore, 
impossible  to  say  to  what  size  of  pothi  the  folio  may  have  belonged.  There  are,  on 
either  side,  six  lines  of  writing  in  the  Slanting  Gupta  characters ;  but  it  is, 
especially  on  the  obverse  side,  much  sand-rubbed,  and  hence  very  imperfectly  legible. 
To  judge  from  the  occurrence  of  the  word  dhhidti  (rev.  11.  2  and  4),  the  text  would 
seem  to  belong  to  the  Atanatiya  Sutra,  which  is  the  thirty-second  in  the  Pali  Digha 
Nikaya.  The  conventional  conclusion  of  the  Sutra  can  be  recognized  in  the  third 
line  of  the  obverse  side,  whence  it  is  followed  by  twelve  sloka  verses,  1-3  on  the 
obverse,  and  4-12  on  the  reverse,  containing  a  series  of  names  of  Yakshas.  But  the 
extant  text  differs  very  materially  from  the  Pali  text  of  the  Atanatij-a  Suttanta  as 
it  is  printed  in  the  Pali  Text  Society's  edition,  vol.  iii,  pp.  194  S.  Of  the  Sanskrit 
text  the  present  fragment  is,  as  yet,  the  only  known  sm-vival.  A  translation  of  the 
Pali  Atanatiya  Suttanta  is  given  in  Grimblot's  Sept  Suttas  Palis,  pp.  321  ff. 

[In  the  Chinese  Dirgha  Agama  the  Atanatiya  Sutra  does  not  occur  at  all ;  see 
Nanjio,  No.  545,  col.  138.  A  separate  translation  of  the  Sutra  was  made  by  Punya 
Vardhana  in  a.  d.  663 ;  but  this,  unfortunately,  is  lost ;  see  the  Khai-yuen-lu 
Catalogue  (Nanjio,  No.  1485),  completed  in  a.d.  730,  fasc.  9  (Tokyo,  xxxviii,  4, 
76  a),  Kpr  P^  ^^  ^S  ^S  a-ta-na-tiya-king.  There  is,  however,  a  Sutra  bearing 
the  name  of  Vaisravana  (Nanjio,  No.  849),  which  appears  to  be  a  combination  of 
portions  of  the  Atanatiya  Sutra,  Mahasannipata  Sutra,  and  Mahamayuri  Tantra.^ 
The  absence  of  the  Atanatiya  Sutra  from  the  Chinese  Dirgha  Agama  seems  to  point 
to  a  late  date  for  the  compilation  of  that  Sutra ;  and  this  is  supported  by  certain 
points  of  contact  between  it  and  the  Mahasamaya  Sutra,  which  is  the  twentieth  in 
the  Pali  Digha  Nikaya,  and  the  nineteenth  in  the  Chinese  Dirgha  Agama  (Nanjio, 


^  See  Dr.  AVutanabe's  article  in  the 

=^  m  il  m  f-- 

May-June,  Tokyo,  190C, 

where  the  structure  of  the  Vaisravana  Sutra  is  shown  as  follows  : 

— 

Group  I. 

Group  II. 

Group  III. 

Group  IV. 

VaiiSr.     Atan. 

Vaisr.  Mahasan. 

Vaisr. 

VaiSr. 

sections    verses 

sections 

section 

sections 

1     =    10-15 

8  =  xii,  11 

14(2)  =  Mahamay. 

6\ 

2    =     18-23 

10  =  xii,  12 

, .    Newly  added 

3  =    27-32 

4  -    50-55 

12  =  xii,  13 

11  V        •', 
13  1      P^^'*'- 

5    =    33-35 

14. 

7    =    36-48 

14(1)=      1-5 

26  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

No.  545,  col.  136).  Thus  we  have  in  both  the  refrain  puUd  pi  tassa  bahavo  .  .  . 
Inda-numu  mahabhala,  and  the  same  list  of  names  of  Mahayakshas,  from  Candano  to 
Janesabbo  (PTS.  ed.,  vol.  ii,  p.  257  ;  iii,  pp.  198,  204).  The  transfer  of  names 
from  one  class  of  supernatural  beings  to  another  points  in  the  same  direction.  Thus 
BadliimukJia  (rev.  1.  1),  who  is  really  a  Naga  (see  Bower  MS.,  vi,  6,  p.  224),  appears 
as  aYaksha  in  the  list  of  the  Atanatiya  Suttanta  (PTS.,  vol.  iii,  p.  205).J 
The  text  of  the  fragment  reads  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  fi{mo  dya  7nama pddau  sira)sa  vandi{tv)a  tatr«aiv<;antarh('i)tah  udgrhnl- 

{dhvam  hhiksa-) 

2  ||/>rtrvavapn  ta  yavsid  eva  Sinahhi{prasam)usindm  \ya{ddndm)  yahsd- 

(ndth) 

3  ^xixavaya    i[(;?a]m    ebvocat^    {Bhaga)vdn.    apta-manas^     te    hhiksavo 

Bhaga  {va) 

4  Jxx[7?ia](^.)arajna   Indro    VaiHrnvano   {Ya)ma-K.uhevshU   Dhrtirastraw 

ca  (/rft)tarah  (sa) 

5  xA-«x  [inajhayakso  (Hl)mavailtt£i-k.TtdIajei  ■'  2  Jayaiiito  vijayamtas  *  ca 

{y)aJi{^)as  ca 
''-  xxxxxr(n)«    Mahsi{lx()rno  jvali{t)o  (f/ft)pya   na   sa((ia) :  °  Vidya-vira 
maliuyaJcsa 

Eeverse. 

1  K^'flA)  esd{'i'ii)    xxxxx(ksas  /«)tha  yaka8i-I)adh{i)muk\ia^  5  Satagirir 

Himavata  yail  ca  Ax- 

2  ^X3i]:>haga{rhha)s     ^esam     Atanati     mahayasrt;^    yaksebhyo#m  ^  abhy- 

anujfiatah  putranaiii '  (j)ivi- 

3  x|xx(();2'0  jjresitah  sarve  Buddha-satv-ahitas  tatha  8  Kuriibbanda  rd- 

bsasa  gliora 

4  xxx^sada  9  Krdayam  Atanatisya  sarva-karma-prasadauali  pravartayi- 

^  Nom.  sing,  of  the  base  dptamana ;  but  in  the  Pravarana  Sutra,  rev.  1.  5  (p.  39) 
dptamanasas  of  the  base  djitamanas.  To  the  former  base  belongs  the  abstract  dttamanata 
in  the  Suka  Sutra,  fol.  56a™  (p.  48),  as  well  as  the  regular  Pali  attamano  (P.  Dy., 
p.  66a).  Both  bases  occur  side  by  side  in  Mst.,  vol.  ii,  p.  54,  11.  19,  20,  dttamandh  and 
attamano  ;  but  dttamandh  seems  to  be  the  more  common  nom.  sing. ;  e.g.  Mvy.,  No.  145,  3  ; 
Dvy.,  p.  2,  1.  11.     The  form  with  dpta  might  very  well  be  the  original. 

'  Eead  hrtdlayah;  rev.  1.  1,  dadhimuklvxh ;  1.  6,  cdrinah.  *  Eead  vijayamtaL 

°  Double  dot  as  mark  of  interpunction  at  end  of  half-verse. 

^  Euphonic  insertion  of  TO.  '  Eead  ^Mimnam. 


ATANATIYA   SUTEA  27 

5  xxxT  (sft)makiilah    t^ajn"    samagatah    sarvw    raksam  *    kurvamtu    me 

sada  11  Gimla-^ 

6  xxxgga jala-carina"  12'^"  Apalalo  mahanaga  Elabhadro"  mahabalah  (ma) 

TRANSLATI0X.12 

(Obverse,  1.  1)  ...  .  to-day,  having  reverenced  my  feet  with  his  head,  he  too 
disappeared  there.  Keep,  O  ye  monks  !  (1.  2)  ...  .  (this  charm)  and  apply  it  always 
(for  your  protection)  from  ill-disposed,  mischievous  Yakshas.  (1.  3)  To  ...  .  this 
spake  the  Blessed  One.  With  receptive  minds  those  monks  (welcomed  what  was 
said)  by  the  Blessed  One.  (1.  4)  ...  .  the  great  Rajas,  Indra,  Vaisravana,  Yama, 
Kubera,  and  Dhritirashtra,  the  saviours ;  (1.  5)  ...  .  the  great  Yaksha,  who  has 
made  his  abode  in  the  Himalayas.  (End  of  verse)  2.  The  victorious  and  the  con- 
quering ^^  Yaksha,  (1.  6)  ...  .  Mahakarna,  the  ardent,  may  he  never  cause  injury  (?) ; 
the  mighty  in  magic,^^  the  great  Yaksha,  .... 

(Reverse,  1.  1)  ...  .  among  them  ....  also  the  Yaksha  Dadhimukha.  (End  of 
verse)  5.  Satugiri,  Himavanta,  and  ...  (1.  2)  ...  .  among  them  Atanati,  the  much 
renowned.  By  the  Yakshas  favoured,  of  the  sons  (1.  3)  ... .  they  are  sent  all  also 
pledged  to  the  truth  of  the  Buddha.  (End  of  verse)  8.  Kumbhandas,  Rakshasas, 
terrible  beings  j  (1.  4)  ...  .  always.  (End  of  verse)  9.  The  heart  (or  essence)  of 
Atanati,  furthering  all  acts,  promoting,  (1.  5)  ...  .  they  are  very  much  agitated ; 
and  may  they  all,  coming  together,  give  me  protection  alwaj's.  (End  of  verse)  11. 
Bimba  (1.  6)  ...  .  (beings)  living  in  water.  (End  of  verse)  12.  Apalala,  the  great 
Naga,  Elabhadra,  the  very  powerful  .  .  . 

6.  UPALI   StJTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^  (Plate  I,  No.  3,  Obverse). 

This  fragment  is  only  a  comparatively  small  portion  of  the  original'  folio,  which 
must  have  been  about  three  times  as  large.  The  lines  of  writing  on  the  extant 
portion  consist  of  22  or  23  syllables.     As  the  text  is  written  in  arya  verses,  and  as 

'  Read  raksam.  '  So  oiig.,  but  probably  read  vimba  (hvmba). 

"  Note  the  position  of  the  figure  for  1  above  and  below  the  figure  for  10,  and  see 
p.  4. 

"  Apparently  for  Elapalra;  cf.  Divyavadana,  p.  61,  footnote;  for  Skr.  Eldpatra,  see 
Bower  MS.,  Pt.  VI,  10,  p.  224. 

"  Owing  to  the  very  mutilated  condition  of  the  text,  only  a  tentative  translation  can 
be  given. 

"  Possibly  jayanta  and  vijayanta  are  proper  names ;  compare  Jaya  and  Vijaya  in 
Divyavadana,  p.  366,  1.  7.     So  also  perhaps  vidyavira. 


28  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

we  have  the  corresponding  Pali  text  to  restore  the  full  text  of  the  mutilated  verses, 
it  is  easy  to  calculate  that,  in  their  complete  state,  the  lines  must  have  had  53  or  54 
syllables.  And  as  the  extant  fragment  measures  about  192  X  78  mm.  (7^  x  3  inches), 
the  complete  folio  must  have  had  a  length  of  about  480  mm.  (18^  inches).  For  an 
Eastern  Turkestan  i  Pothi  this  is  a  rather  unusual  length  in  proportion  to  its  width  of 
about  3  inches  (or  78  mm.).  There  are,  on  either  side  of  the  folio,  six  lines  of 
writing  in  Slanting  Gupta  characters,  but  on  the  reverse  side  the  ink  is  considerably 
abraded,  making  the  writing  rather  difficult  to  decipher.  The  folio-number,  having 
stood  on  the  missing  portion,  is  not  known  ;  and  it  is  impossible,  therefore,  to  say 
whether  the  Pothi  to  which  the  folio  belonged  contained  only  one  Sutra  or  a  collec- 
tion of  Sutras. 

[The  text  of  our  fragment  belongs  to  the  Upali  Sutra  of  the  Madhyama  Agama, 
where,  in  the  Chinese  translation,  it  is  the  183rd,  fase.  32,  in  Nanjio,  No.  542,  col. 
131,  in  Tokj^o,  xii,  6,  59a,  l-ll.i  In  the  Pali  Majjhima  Nikaya  it  is  the  56th 
Sutra,  in  the  Pali  Text  Society's  edition,  vol.  i,  pp.  371-87.  There  is  a  French 
translation  of  it,  by  Leon  Feer,  in  the  Journal  Asiatique,  vol.  ix,  1887,  pp.  309  ff., 
and  a  German  free  translation  by  K.  E.  Neumann  in  his  '  Reden  des  Gautamo 
Buddho  ',  vol.  ii,  pp.  74  if.] 

The  Upali  Sutra  concludes  with  a  poem  by  Upali  in  honour  of  Buddha.  That 
poem  consists  of  ten  stanzas,  each  of  which  is  made  up  of  three  arya  verses  ;  and 
each  stanza  ends  with  the  refrain  :  '  Of  him,  the  Blessed  One,  Upali  is  a  disciple.' 
The  beginning  of  the  poem  is  wanting,  having  stood  on  the  preceding  folio.  The 
folio,  to  which  our  fragment  belongs,  appears  to  have  commenced  with  the  second 
stanza,  though  this  point  is  not  quite  certain ;  see  below,  note  (1)  (p.  31).  The  whole, 
or  rather  fragments  of  the  whole,  of  the  remainder  of  the  poem,  as  well  as  a  final 
short  clause  in  prose,  are  comprised  in  our  folio.  It  contains,  moreover,  an  eleventh 
stanza,  to  which  there  is  no  counterpart  in  the  Pali  version  (PTS.,  i,  p.  386).  The 
latter,  though  in  the  main  identical  with  the  Sanskrit  version,  differs  considerably 
also  in  other  details.  Thus  it  differs  in  the  consecutive  order  of  the  stanzas,  and  in 
the  distribution  of  the  verses  which  constitu.te  the  stanzas.  Occasionally  even  the 
component  parts  of  the  verses  are  differently  allotted  ;  or  the  reading  of  such  a  com- 
ponent part  may  difier.  In  all  these  respects,  the  Chinese  translation,  according  to 
Dr.  Watanabe,  accords  very  closely  with  the  Sanskrit  version  of  our  fragment.  See 
the  Comparative  Columns,  pp.  30-1. 

The  text  reads  as  follows  : — 

'  On  the  authors  and  dates  of  the  Chinese  translation  of  the  ifadhyama  Agama  see 
Nanjio,  No.  542,  col.  127.  [On  the  comparison  of  the  Chinese  and  Pali  versions,  there  is 
an  article  by  Anesaki,  entitled  '  Corresponding  Texts  in  the  Pali  Majjhuna  Nikaya  and  the 
Chinese  Madhyama  Agama',  in  ^  i^  ^^  gj^,  for  June,  Tokyo,  1904.     W.] 


UPALI   SUTKA  29 

Obverse. 

1  ||(pi;i)-praptasya  vyakaranesit  ^  "^  smrtimato  vipasyasya  anabhina[to-] 

2  2(*!/'''')  ftpvameyasya  gariit/iirasya  mauna-priptasya  •^  ksemaria-karasya 

vedi- 

3  JUpali  4  Nagasya  pranta-      '  ^ayanasya  ksina-samyojanasya  mu- 

4  p(A;a)sya  Sakrasya  Bhagavaias  tasya  ^ravaka  Upali  5  Samyag-gatasya 

dhya- 

5  p(pta)sya  visaradasya  nipunasya  Bhagavatas  tasya  sravaka  Upali  6 

6  fi{dd]iasi/ct)  samlta-vairasya  virasya  Yij^ra^sannasya)  Bhagavatas  tasya 

Eeverse.* 

1  ^pratijmdgsJasya  atulsisya  '>  samga(^/<7os^rt)  padakasyai?/ia^av(xta- 

2  J[r!(]cjrasya  niskariiksasyrt  prabhasakarasya  -^  maya-rchido ''  hy  ama- 

yasya  Blia- 

3  Kpte)sya  »^  Tathagatasya  su^atasya  uttama-pudgalasya  amamasya  -^ 

yasip-) 

4  (pi()rva'm    avi'tarkitam    avac^ac?    Upali  -^  purato    nigrantha^-pari.s-rtc/ct;^ 

varnam  varnam 

5  li^rt  -^  tadyatha  bhadanta  d(iks\o'\  mdldkaro  va  malak^r-a^iewsi  va  vici- 

6  J(i'ft)   tasja  Bhagavatas   Tathagatasyi^arhafo/i   samyaJc--sa,mh-addliasyi> 

dnandax 

The  relation  of  the  Sanskrit  version  of  our  fragment  to  the  Pali  version  and  the 
Chinese  translation  may  be  seen  from  the  subjoined  parallel  columns.  The  missing 
portions  of  the  Sanskrit  text  may  be  conjecturally  restored  from  the  corresponding 
portions  of  the  Pali  text,  and  are  shown  in  italic  type  ;  but  for  obvious  reasons  no 
attempt  is  made  to  reconstitute  the  actual  scansion  of  the  verses.  The  Chinese 
parallels  are  taken  from  Dr.  Watanabe's  notes.  The  stanzas  are  indicated  by 
numbers  ;  their  component  verses,  by  letters. 

"  The  reading  vydkaranesu  is  quite  distinct ;  and  it  might  be  correct ;  but  it  does  not 
accord  with  the  general  structure  of  the  verses,  and  is  more  probabl}'  a  clerical  error  for 
vyakaranasya,  or  rather  vaiyakaranasya. 

'  Here  there  is  a  vacant  space  in  the  line  showing  traces  of  a  wrong  syllable  having 
been  washed  out  by  the  scribe,  see  p.  54,  footnote  8. 

*  On  the  reverse  side  the  numbering  of  the  verses  is  neglected. 

'^  For  mdyd-cchido ;  see  Note  on  p.  20,  and  footnote  4  on  p.  61. 

"  For  nirgrantha ;  apparently  conforming  to  the  Pali  nigantJia. 


30 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


Chinese. 
la-c 

-la 

2b 

2c 

Za-c 

4  a 

45 

4c 

5  a 

5h 

5c 

6a 

Qb 

6c 

7a 

7b 

7c 

(W.  om.) 

8a 

8c 

9a 

94 

Sanskrit. 

1  a-c  stood  ou  the_preceding  folio. 

2  a  [Obv.,  1.   1]  Aryasya  bhdvitdt- 

manah  7Wrtptipraptasya  vyaka- 
ranesu  I 
2  b  Smrtimato  vipasyasya  anabhi- 
iiata[].  2'\sya  no  apanatasya  ! 

2  c  Aninjyasya  vaBprdptasya  Bhaga- 

vatas  tasya  srdvaJca  Updll  2  II 

3  a-c  Apparently  missed  out. 

4  a  Nisabhasys,  aprameyasya  gam- 

bhlrasya  maunapraptasya  I 
4  b  Ksemamkarasya  ve^inah  [1.  3] 
dharmasthasya  mmrrtdttnanah  1 

4  c  Ddntasya  nisprapahcasya  BJiaga- 

vatas  tasya  SrdvaJca  Upali  4 

5  a  Nagasya  prantasayanasyaksma- 

sariiyojanasya  mu[l.  '^ktasya  I 
5  6  Pratuiiantrakasya        ■  dhaidasya 
pirajna-dhvajaxya  v'lfardgasya  I 

5  c  .4?«awWakasya  SakrasyaBhaga- 

vatas  tasya  srilvaka  Upali  5 

6  a  Sarayaggatasyadhya[l.  Sjywja^ 

ananugatdntarasya  iuddhasya  I 
6  b  Asmitasya  alpahinasya  pravivik- 
tasya  agraj}rdj)ta.sya  I 

6  c  Visaradasya  nipunasya  Bhaga- 

vatas  tasya  sravaka  Upali  6 

7  a  1.  6,  Sndtahasya  pradlpasya  pra- 

srabdhasya  riditavedasya  I 
7  b   xxxxxxxxx    i'i/arrr/dhasya   sa- 
mita-vairasya 

7  0  Vii'asya  viprasannasya  Bhaga- 

vatas  tasya  srava[Rev.,  I.  Y\ka 
J] pall  7  II 

8  a  Sdnfasya   bhuriprajnasya    malid- 

prajnasya  vltalobliasya  I 
8  b  Ahavaniyasya    aksasya    apxaii- 
pudgalasya  atulasya  I 

8  c  Samgatigasyapadakasj'aBhaga- 

vata[l.  2]*  tasya  srdraka  Updll  8 

9  a  Asaihiayasya  kusalasya  vainayi- 

hasya  sdrathivarasya  I 
9  b  Anuttarasya       rZ^armarucirasya 
niskamksasya      prabhasakara- 
sya  I 


Pali. 

1  a-c 

7  a  Ariyassa  bhavitattassa  pattipa- 
ttassa  veyyakaranassa  i 

7  b  Satimato     vipassissa     anabhi- 
natassa  no  apanatassa  I 

7  c  Anejjassa  vasippattassa  Bhaga- 

vato  tassa  savako  'ham  asmi 

2  a-c 

4  a  Nisabhassa  appameyyassa  gam- 
bbirassa  monapattassa  I 

4  b  Khemamkarassa  vedassa  dham- 

mattbassa  samvutattassa  I 

5  c  Dantassa  nippapancassa  Bhaga- 

vato  tassa  savako  'ham  asmi  II 
5  a  Nagassa    pantasenassa    khina- 
samyojanassa  muttassa  I 

5  h  Patimantakassa  dhonassa 

pannadhajassa  vltaragassa  I 

6  c  Purindadassa  Sakkassa  Bhaga- 

vato  tassa  savako  'ham  asmi 

8  a  Sammaggatassa    jhayissa    an- 

anugatantarassa  suddhassa  I 
85  Asitassa    appahinassa   pavivit- 
tassa  aggapattassa  I 

9  c  Visaradassa  nipunassa   Bhaga- 

vato  tassa  savako  'ham  asmi  II 
6  b  Nahatakassa     padakassa     pas- 

saddhassa  vidita vedassa  I 
1  5  or  6  a  (see  note    below) ;    viid- 

dhasilassa  susamaeittassa  I 

3  c  (?)  Manacchidassa  vlrassaBhaga- 

vato  tassa  savako  'ham  asmi  II 
Or  8  c  (?) 

9  a  Santassa  bhuripannassa  maha- 

pannassa  vitalobhassa  I 

10  b  Ahuneyyassa  yakkbassa  utta- 

mapuggalassa  atulassa  I 

4  c  Samgatigassa  muttassa  Bhaga- 

vato  tassa  savako  'ham  asmi  11 
3  a  Asamsayassa  kusalassa  venayi- 

kassa  sarathivarassa  I 
3  b  Anuttarassa     ruciradhammassa 

nikkamkhassa      pabhasakara- 

ssal 


UPALI   SUTRA 


81 


Chinese. 
9c 

10a 
10  c 


11 « 
lie 


Sanskiut. 

9  c  Mayacchido  hy  aiuayasya  Bha- 

[1.   3']ffavaias    tasya    srdvaka 

(Jpali  9 
10a  Trsnacchido       hi       huddhasi/a 

vltadhumasya  a?iuprali])tasya  I 
10  i  Tathagatasya    sugatasya    ut- 

tamapudgalasya  amamasya  i 

10  c  Yaso  [1. 4]  ' (jraprdptasya  mahato 

BJiagaxataH      tasi/a      Urdvalca 
Updtt  10 
11a  Missing. 

11  A  [xxxxxxxx]    purvam    avitar- 

kitam  avadad  Upall  i 
lie  Purato        nigrantliaparisadah 

varnam  varnam    [1.  5]  Bud- 

dhasya  11 
(Prose  ;  about  17  syllables  missing) 

mala    I    tadyatha     bhadanta 

dakso   malakaro   va   malaka- 

rantevasi  va  vici- 
1.  6,  tram  77idlam  grathnii/dt  ndndpns- 

pdndm    mahdpjispardsim   evam 

fva  tasya  Bhagavatas  Tatha- 

gatasj'#a,rhatah  samyak-sam- 

buddhasy#ananda  x 


Pali. 

3  c  Manacchidassa    virassa    Bha- 

gavato    tassa    savako    'ham 

asmi  II 
10  a  Tanhacchidassa        buddhassa 

vitadhumassa  anupalittassa  I 
10  b  Tathagatassa  sugatassa  appati- 

puggalassa  asamassa  I 

10  c  Mahato  yasaggapattassa  Bha- 

gavato  tassa  suvako  'ham 
asmi  II 

1 1  a-c  Probably  representing    the 

Pali  prose  passage,  kada  san- 
nialha  pana  te  gahapati  ime 
samanassa  Gotamassa  vanna 
ti  II    ' 

Seyyatha  pi  bhante  nanapuppha- 
nam  mahapappharasi,  tarn 
enaih  dakkho  malakaro  va 
malakarantevasi  va  vicitraih 
malam  gantheyya  i  evam  eva 
kho  bhante  so  Bhagava  ane- 
kavanno  anekasatavannoH 


The  results  of  the  comparison  of  the  two  versions  may  be  summed  up  as 
follows  : — 

(1)  The  whole  of  the  third  stanza  appears  to  be  missed  out  in  the  Sanskrit  text 
of  our  fragment,  possibly  by  the  scribe's  inadvertence.  That  stanza  might  conceivably 
have  occupied  an  earlier  position,  so  that  the  two  initial  stanzas  of  the  eulogium 
may  have  stood  on  the  preceding  folio.  But  in  view  of  the  position  of  the  corre- 
sponding third  stanza  in  the  Chinese  translation,  and  of  the  fact  that  the  order  of  the 
stanzas  in  that  translation  is  throughout  the  same  as  in  the  Sanskrit  text,  that  hypo- 
thesis does  not  seem  probable. 

(2)  Fourteen  verses,  viz.  2  a  and  2  5,  4  a  and  4  3,  5  a  and  5  c,  6  a  and  6  c,  8  b  and 
8  c,  9  i  and  9  c,  \0b  and  10  c,  can  be  definitely  identified  with  certain  Pali  verses  from 
the  extant  remains  of  the  Sanskrit  text. 

(3)  But,  at  the  same  time,  the  order  of  many  of  these  verses  differs  from  the 
Pali.  Thus  Sanskrit  2  a  and  2  b  are  identical  with  Pali  7  a  and  7  b  ;  Sanskrit  5  c  is 
the  same  as  Pali  6  c ;  Sanskrit  6  a  and  6  c  are  identical  respectively  with  Pali 
8  a  and  9  c  ;  similarly  Sanskrit  Sb  and  8  c  with  Pali  10  5  and  4  c  ;  Sanskrit  9  b  and 


82  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

9  e  are  the  same  as  Pali  3  h  and  3  c,  and  Sanskrit  10  h  is  the  same  as  Pali  9  h.  Only 
Sanskrit  4  «  5,  5  a,  and  10  c  stand  in  the  same  order  as  in  the  Pali  version.  For  some 
other  differences  of  order  see  below,  note  (5). 

(4)  The  position  of  some  verses,  of  which  the  text  has  not  sui-vived,  relative  to 
the  Pali  text,  can  be  determined  from  certain  words  in  the  Chinese  translation 
which  have  been  noted  by  Dr.  Watanabe.  Thus  he  observes  that  '  in  verse  5  h, 
the  Pali  word  pannadhajassa  is  translated  in  Chinese  by  ^  '[^  or  "layer  of 
wisdom",  which  seems  to  show  that  it  is  based  on  the  slightly  different  Sanskrit 
reading  prajhdiliayasya  '. — Again  verse  6  5  is  identified  with  the  Pali  verse  8  5  by 
the  Chinese  words  '^  ^  iffi  "^  ^  that  is,  'is  always  smiling,  has  no  anger', 
though  the  second  Chinese  word  would  seem  to  point  to  a  different  Sanskrit  reading 
from  the  Pali  ajipaJimassa. — Similarly  verse  7  a  is  identified  with  the  Pali  verse  6  b 
by  the  Chinese  words  >^^  y^  ^fj  ^  'J^,  that  is,  '  has  cleanly  bathed  himself,  is  as 
a  bright  lamp ',  where,  however,  the  second  Chinese  word  points  to  a  Sanskrit  reading 
pradqxisija  instead  of  the  Pali  padakassa  (see  below,  note  (6)). — In  connexion  with  these 
identifications,  it  may  be  noted  that  the  identity  of  two  verses,  which  are  included  above 
in  note  (2),  is  corroborated  by  certain  Chinese  words.  In  verse  5  a,  as  Dr.  Watanabe 
observes,  the  Chinese  renders  the  Sanskrit  iirdntamijanasija,  Pali  pmitasenassa,  by 
a  word  which  signifies  '  who  delights  to  sit  on  an  elevated  seat ',  and  which  rather 
points  to  the  Sanskrit  reading  prUamyduasya.  Similarly  in  verse  8 1  the  Chinese 
has  "pf  jjj^  ^  J^  H^,  that  is,  '  who  is  deserving  of  an  offering,  who  has  highest 
e^'es  'j  which  obviously  renders  the  missing  Sanskrit  dhavamyasya  aksasya,  and  the 
corresponding  Pfdi  dlnmeyyassa  yakkkassa  (see  below,  note  (6)). 

(.5)  There  remain  seven  verses,  viz.  3e,  4(",  7  ic,  8  a,  9  a,  10  a,  the  identity  of 
which  with  Pali  verses  remains  uncertain.  According  to  Dr.  Watanabe's  arrangement 
of  the  Chinese  identities,  as  shown  in  the  preceding  columns,  Sanskrit  and  Chinese 
2  c  are  identical  with  Pali  7  c,  similarly  4  c  with  Pali  ^c,  7  b  with  Pali  6  ^,  8  a  with 
Pali  9  a,  9  a  with  Pali  3  a,  and  10  a  with  Pali  10  a. — In  the  last  case  (verse  10  a) 
alone  the  order  is  the  same  in  all  three  versions  ;  and  this  is  confirmed  by  the  fact 
that  the  mutilated  ending  of  the  verse,  ptasya,  which  is  all  that  is  preserved  of  the 
Sanskrit  text,  agrees  with  the  ending  of  the  final  Pali  word  anupaliUassa  (Skr, 
minpralipiaxya).  In  the  case  of  Sanskrit  and  Chinese  7  c,  Dr.  Watanabe  appears  to 
have  recognized  no  Pali  parallel.  The  only  Pali  verse,  as  yet  unaccounted  for,  is  8  c. 
This  verse,  however,  commences  with  tinnasm  tdrayantassa  (Skr.  ttrnasya  tdrayatah), 
and  is  obviously  not  identifiable  with  the  commencement  of  Sanskrit  7  c,  rirasya 
vipiraxannasi/a.  On  the  other  hand  the  latter  verse  has  the  word  vlraxya  in  common 
with  the  Pali  verse  3  c  (virassa),  while  this  Pali  verse,  again,  has  some  similarity 
(mdnaccAidaisa)  with  the  Sanskrit  verse  9  c  (mdydcc/tido),  which  is  recognized  by 


UPALI   SUTRA  SB 

Dr.  Watanabe.     With  the  materials  at  present  available  the  complication  cannot 
be  disentangled. 

(6)  In  the  case  of  some  verses,  the  Sanskrit  and  PaU  readings  differ  considerably. 
Thus  in  the  constant  refrain  of  the  stanzas  the  Sanskrit  version  has  irdvaka  Vpah 
instead  of  the  Pali  Mvako  'ham  asmi. — Again  in  Sanskrit  5  c,  which  corresponds  to 
PaK  6  c,  the  counterpart  of  Pali  purindaclassa  is  not  preserved  in  our  fragment ;  but 
according  to  Dr.  Watanabe,  the  Chinese  translation  has  here  a  word  which  signifies 
'  who  never  returns  to  existence  ',  and  this  suggests  some  such  Sanskrit  original  as 
andvrttakagya. — Again  in  verse  7  a,  the  Chinese  translation  shows  (above,  note  (4)) 
that  the  Sanskrit  original  must  have  read  some  such  word  as  pradlpasya,  for  which  the 
corresponding  Pali  verse  6 1  reads  padakassa.  With  regard  to  this  discrepancy  it 
should  be  noted  that  the  Sanskrit  version  actually  has  that  reading  padaka.%ya  in 
verse  8  c  of  our  fragment  (rev.  1.  1),  where  the  corresponding  Puli  verse  4  c  has 
muttassa  ;  and  this  reading  niuttassa  occurs  also  in  the  Pali  verse  5  a.  It  is  rather 
improbable  that  the  same  epithet  of  Buddha  would  be  repeated  within  the  same 
hymn ;  and  it  seems  probable,  therefore,  that  the  Sanskrit  version  is  correct  with 
regard  to  prad%pasi/a  in  verse  7  a  (  =  Pali  6  b),  wiA.  padakasya  in  verse  8  c  (  =  PaLi  4  c) ; 
and  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  Pali  is  incorrect  in  reading  muttassa  in  its  verse  4  c, 
but  correct  in  reading  it  in  its  verse  5  a,  where  it  is  corroborated  by  the  corresponding 
Sanskrit  verse  7  a.  The  point  is  important  inasmuch  as  it  tends  to  show  that,  in 
this  matter  at  least,  the  Sanskrit  version  rather  than  the  Pali  has  preserved  the 
original  wording  of  the  eulogy.  We  have  a  somewhat  similar  case,  when  the 
Sanskrit  version  reads  apratipudgalasya  in  verse  8^,  and  uttamapudguluKya  in  verse 
10  5,  while  the  Pali  version  has  afatipuggalassa  in  verse  9  h,  and  uttamapuggalassa  in 
verse  10  b. — Again  the  Sanskrit  version  reads  amamasya  in  verse  10  b,  while  the 
corresponding  verse  9  ^  in  the  Pali  version  has  asamassa.  Here,  however,  the  differ- 
ence may  be  due  to  a  mere  confusion  of  the  graphic  signs  for  ma  and  *«.— Again  in 
the  mutilated  Sani:^krit  verse  7  b,  the  fragment  ddhasya  samitavairasya  suggests  some 
connexion  with  the  words  misamacittassa  vuddAa-silassa  of  the  Pali  verse  1  b.  The 
Sanskrit  text  would  seem  to  have  read  silavrddhasya,  with  a  similar  transposition 
within  the  compound  to  Sanskrit  dliarma-r acirasya  in  verse  9  b  for  Pali  rucira-dham- 
massa  in  verse  3  b. — Some  other  cases  in  which  the  Chinese  translation  points  to 
differences  of  reading  between  the  Sanskrit  and  Pali  vei'sions  have  been  alread\- 
noticed  in  notes  (4)  and  (5). 

(7)  A  striking  point  of  difference  between  the  two  versions  is  the  absence  of  the 
eleventh  stanza  in  the  Pali  version,  and  its  presence  in  the  Sanskrit,  where  it  is 
corroborated,  according  to  Dr.  Watanabe,  by  the  Chinese  translation.  That  stanza 
would  seem  to  represent  the  short  prose  clause  (from  kadd  to  vamid  ti,  see  p.  31,  3rd 
column)  which  immediately  follows  on  the  tenth  stanza  in  the  Pali  version. 


34  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

(8)  The  presence  of  the  epithet  yahkhassa  in  verse  10  I  of  the  Pali  version  is 
puzzling.  Buddha  could  not,  with  any  propriety,  be  called  a  Yaksha,  particularly 
in  a  hymn  in  his  praise.  The  Chinese  translation  which  says  '  who  has  highest 
eyes '  (note  (4))  supplies  the  solution.  Its  Sanskrit  original  must  have  had  the 
word  ahsasya,  eye.  Buddha  is  called  the  eye,  the  seer,  or  overlooker,  just  as  he  is 
called  (in  verse  7  a,  note  (4))  pradipa,  the  lamp,  or  enlightener,  and  as  the  synonymous 
locana  is  applied  to  the  female  Bodhisattva  Tara  (see  the  Mahapratyangira  Dharani, 
obv.  1.  4,  p.  54).  Compare  also  the  name  Avalokita,  which  is  traditionally 
understood  to  mean  '  who  sees  with  the  eyes '  (see  Professor  Griinwedel's  Mythology 
of  Buddhism,  p.  128).  The  Pali  yakkhassa,  therefore,  is  clearly  akkhassa  with  an 
initial  euphonic  y,  just  as  we  have  it  in  na  yimassa,  yaci  yeva,  kind  yittJiam,  &c. — 
Again  the  Pali  nisabkassa,  of  which  the  Sanskrit  equivalent  is  not  preserved  in  our 
fragment,  appears  to  represent  a  Sanskrit  nimbhasya  (from  the  root  saiJi.  or  saA) '  power- 
ful', which  is  not  noticed  in  any  dictionary,  but  which  is  analogous  to  prasabha  and 
prasaJia,  and  the  Vedic  nlsah. 

TRANSLATION. 

Stanza  2.  Of  him  who  is  noble,  who  has  trained  his  soul,  who  has  attained 
the  highest  goal,  who  delivers  religious  instructions/  who  possesses  a  recollection  (of 
all  happenings) ;  who  perceives  everything,^  who  feels  neither  inclination  towards, 
nor  disinclination  against  anything,  who  is  untouched  by  any  passion,  who  has 
attained  mastery  (over  his  senses),  of  that  Blessed  One  Upali  is  a  disciple. 

4.  Of  him  who  is  powerful,  who  is  unlimited,  who  is  profound,  who  has  attained 
the  state  of  a  Muni  (or  holy  sage),  who  keeps  himself  in  (perfect)  peace,  who  possesses 
(true)  knowledge,  who  is  established  in  the  Law,  who  has  control  over  himself,  who 
has  subdued  (his  appetites),  who  is  without  any  swerving  (from  the  right  path),  of 
that  Blessed  One  Upali  is  a  disciple. 

5.  Of  him  who  is  the  (white)  elephant,'  who  has  his  lodgings  in  the  outskirts,^" 
in  whom  the  (ten)  bonds  are  decayed,  who  delivered  (from  transmigration),  who  is 
facile  in  argumentation,  who  is  cleansed  (from  evil),  who  bears  the  banner  of  wisdom, 

^  On  vyakarana,  see  M.  Senart's  note  on  p.  627  of  his  edition  of  the  Mahavastu, 
vol.  i,  where  it  is  used  as  a  synonym  of  sutra,  vol.  ii,  p.  257,  1.  13  ;  p.  293,  11.  13,  15. 

'  For  the  original  vipaiyasya  one  would  expect  vipaiyinah,  as  the  equivalent  of  the 
Pali  vipassissa. 

^  '  White  elephant ',  apparently  in  allusion  to  the  story  of  the  conception  of  Buddha. 
Naga  means  also  a  snake ;  but  in  that  sense  the  word  would  be  as  inappropriate  of 
Buddha  as  the  epithet  Yaksha  in  the  Pali  verse  10  6;  see  above,  note  (8). 

'"  '  Outskirts '  refers  to  the  Buddhist  sahghardma  settlements,  in  which  Buddha 
resided,  and  which  lay  on  the  borders  or  outskirts  of  towns. 


UPALI  SUTRA  S5 

who  is  void  of  (all)  passions,  who  has  never  to  return  to  (mundane)  existence,  who 
is  the  (true  sovereign)  Sakra,  of  that  Blessed  One  Upali  is  a  disciple. 

6.  Of  him  who  walks  blamelessly,  who  is  given  to  meditation,  who  is  not  the 
follower  of  any  other,  who  is  pure,  who  does  not  smile,  who  is  not  abandoned, ^^  who 
is  detached  (from  the  world),  who  has  attained  the  highest  (goal),  who  is  learned, 
who  is  skilled,  of  that  Blessed  One  Upali  is  a  disciple. 

7.  Of  him  who  has  taken  his  final  bath,^^  who  is  the  lamp  (of  the  world),  who 

is  tranquil,  to  whom  (all)  knowledge  is  known, who  is  advanced  in  the  (ten) 

duties  (of  a  monk),  in  whom  (all)  animosity  is  appeased,  who  is  a  hero,  who  is  serene, 
of  that  Blessed  One  Upali  is  a  disciple. 

8.  Of  him  who  is  at  peace,  whose  wisdom  is  manifold,  whose  wisdom  is  great, 
who  is  void  of  desire,  who  is  worshipful,  who  is  the  eye  (of  the  world),  who  has  no 
rival,  who  has  no  equal,  who  has  outgone  the  (five)  attachments,  who  is  familiar  with 
the  words  (of  holy  writ),  of  that  Blessed  One  Upali  is  a  disciple. 

9.  Of  him  who  has  no  uncertainties,  who  is  meritorious,  who  is  versed  in  the 
rules  of  discipline,  who  is  the  best  of  (religious)  guides,  to  whom  none  is  superior, 
who  is  brilliant  in  the  Law,  who  is  free  from  doubts,  who  causes  enlightenment,  who 
destroys  illusion  (in  others),  who  has  no  illusion  (himself),  of  that  Blessed  One 
Upali  is  the  disciple. 

10.  Of  him  who  quenches  the  thirst  for  re-birth,  who  is  the  Buddha,  who 
is  void  of  smoke,' ^  who  is  unsoiled  (with  evil),  who  is  the  Tathagata,  who  is  the 
welcome-one,  who  is  the  best  possible  person,  who  is  not  self-conceited,  who  has 
attained  the  height  of  glory,  who  is  the  great-one,  of  that  Blessed  One  Upali 
is  a  disciple. 

11 undisputed,  Upali  spoke  before  the  Nirgrantha  community  the 

several  praises  (of  Buddha). 

Line  5  : Just  as,  Reverend  Sir,  a  clever  maker  of  garlands,  or  the  mate 

of  a  maker  of  garlands,  may  knit  a  variegated  garland  of  many  flowers,  forming 
a  long  row  of  flowers,  [line  6]  even  so  of  the  Blessed  One,  the  Tathagata,  the 
Arhat,  the  perfect  Buddha,  joyfully  (Upali  spoke  a  long  series  of  praises). 


"  According  to  Dr.  Watanabe,  the  Chinese  translation  has  '  who  has  no  anger ',  which 
points  to  a  Sanskrit  reading  akrodhanasya. 

"  The  '  final  bath '  was  symbolic  of  having  completed  one's  training  in  sciences 
(brahmanic)  or  morals  (buddhistic). 

"  The  meaning  of  the  metaphor  is  not  quite  clear ;  smoke  may  signify  something 
unsubstantial,  such  as  idle  talk  (cf.  verse  40  on  p.  82),  or  something  that  obscures.  The 
meaning  may  be  that  Buddha  does  not  indulge  in  idle  talk,  or  in  darkening  counsel. 
M.  Feer's  translation  '  qui  a  ^carti  la  racine  (du  mal) '  seems  to  be  based  on  a  reading 
vlta-mulassa,  which  is  not  noticed  in  the  PTS.  edition,  p.  562. 

D  2 


36  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 


7.  PRAVARANA  SUTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149  f  (Plate  II,  No.  1,  Reverse). 

This  is  a  complete  folio  in  almost  perfect  condition.  It  measures  205  x  50  mm. 
(or  8  X  2  inches).  It  bears  on  either  page  five  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta 
characters,  in  well-preserved  black  ink.  On  the  left  margin  of  the  reverse  side,  it 
bears  what  appears  to  be  a  double  reckoning,  consisting  of  the  four  figures  2,  100, 
30, 2,  arranged  in  column,  and  apparently  to  be  read  as  2  and  132  ;  or  possibly  as  134 
if  4  may  be  taken  to  be  indicated  in  the  same  way  as  2  in  the  verse  number  12  in  the 
Atanatiya  Sutra,  PI.  I,  No.  2, 1.  6  (see  p.  27,  footnote  10;  also  p.  4).  In  any  case,  the  folio 
must  have  belonged  to  an  extensive  pothi,  numbering  upwards  of  132  leaves.  The 
text  of  our  folio  is  a  portion  of  the  Pravarana  Sutra,  which  is  one  of  the  sutras  of  the 
Pali  Samyutta  Nikaya  in  the  Sutta  Pitaka.  In  Peer's  edition  of  the  Pali  Text 
Society,  that  sutra  occurs  in  Part  I,  pp.  190-2.  It  there  forms  the  7th  paragraph 
of  the  Vlllth  Book,  entitled  Vangisa  Thera  Samyuttam.  It  is  a  very  small  sutra, 
consisting  of  twelve  clauses,  of  which  three,  the  10th,  11th,  and  12th,  are  preserved 
in  our  fragment.  It  would  seem,  therefore,  that  the  figure  132  may  refer  to  the  total 
Samyutta,  while  the  figure  2  may  refer  to  the  Pravarana  Sutra,  that  sutra  being 
written  on  two  folios  of  which  the  second  alone  is  preserved. 

The  Sanskrit  version  of  the  sutra  which  is  contained  in  our  fragment,  agrees, 
on  the  whole,  closely  with  the  Pali  original,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  transcript 
below.  But  there  is  one  important  diflirence.  The  Sanskrit  text,  as  extant  in  our 
folio,  concludes  with  a  hymn  of  seven  verses,  while  the  Pali  text  consists  of  only 
four  verses.  These  four  verses  are  found  also  in  the  jNTahanipato,  of  the  Thera 
Gatha,  p.  Ill,  Nos.  1234-7,  of  the  PTS.  edition  by  Oldenberg  and  Pischel.  They 
correspond  to  the  1st,  5th,  6th,  and  7th  verses  of  the  Sanskrit  text. 

[The  Pravarana  Sutra  is  found  in  both  Chinese  translations  of  the  Samyukta ; 
namely,  in  the  older,  fasc.  12  (T.  xiii,  4,  63  I,  9-14),  and  in  the  later,  fasc.  45  (T.  xiii, 
5,  76  5,  14-19).  The  name  of  the  sutra  does  not  occur  in  these  Chinese  texts  ;  but 
in  a  verse  of  resume  (udddna)  in  fasc.  13  (T.  xiii,  5,  82  «,  1)  of  the  older  version,  we 
read  the  name  of  the  sutra  clearly  as  O  ^,  which  is  the  accustomed  Chinese 
word  for  the  Sanskrit  j!?rayaraMa,  and  means  '  self-indulgence  ',  that  is  to  say,  pointing 
out  the  faults  of  others,  in  compliance  with  the  latter's  own  wish,  with  a  view  to 
making  confession  of  them.  In  order  to  understand  the  procedure  at  the  pravarana 
ceremony,  reference  may  be  made  to  the  IVth  chapter  of  the  Mahavagga  in  SEE., 


PRAVARANA  SUTRA  S7 

vol.  xiii,  pp.  325-55  (text  in  Vinaya  Pitaka,  vol.  i,  pp.  157-78),  and  to  Takakusu's 
translation  of  I-tsing,  ch.  xv,  pp.  86-90.^ 

There  exist  also  two  separate  Chinese  translations  of  the  Pravarana  Sutra  ;  one 
by  Dharmaraksha  (T.  xiv,  8,  26  5,  13-17),  and  the  other  by  Dharmabhadra  (T.  xiv, 
S,  6  a  ff.,  N.  923,  ^  ^  $?)•  Dharmaraksha's  translation  has  some  introductory 
verses  ;  and  its  concluding  verses  number  only  four,  the  same  as  in  the  Pali  version. 
It  is  not  included  in  Nanjio's  Catalogue,  because  it  is  preserved  only  in  the  Corean 
edition  of  the  Tripitaka.  Dharmabhadra's  translation  agrees  very  closely  with  the 
sutra  in  the  later  Chinese  translation  of  the  Samyukta.  Its  concluding  verses 
number  seven,  the  same  as  in  our  fragment.  The  shorter  version  of  the  hymn, 
consisting  of  only  four  verses,  is  also  quoted  in  a  commentary  on  the  Ekottara 
Agama,  named -^  ^)J  ^  |^^  |^  Fan-pleh-kun-ibh-lun  (N.  1290,  T.  xxiv,  4,  59  5), 
translated  under  the  later  Han  dynasty  (a.  d.  25-200). 

Thus  of  the  five  Chinese  versions,  three,  namely  the  two  of  the  Samyukta,  and 
that  of  Dharmabhadra,  agree  with  the  Sanskrit  version  in  having  seven  verses,  while 
the  other  two,  those  of  Dharmaraksha  and  of  the  Fan-pieh-kun-toh-lun,  have  only  the 
four  verses  of  the  Pali  version. 

From  the  subjoined  parallel  transcripts,  it  will  be  seen  that  there  are  certain 
diiferences  of  reading  between  the  Sanskrit  and  Pali  versions  of  the  hymn.  With 
reference  to  this  point,  it  may  be  observed  that  Dharmaraksha  and  the  Fan-pieh-kun- 
tbh-lan  in  their  translations  follow  the  Pali  version ;  and  so  does,  on  the  whole,  the 
older  of  the  two  Samyukta  versions,  though  it  adopts  the  seven  verses  of  the  Sanskrit 
version.^  The  latter  version  is  adopted  in  the  later  translation  of  the  Samyukta 
and  in  that  of  Dharmabhadra.  Three  periods,  accordingly,  may  be  distinguished. 
To  the  first  period  belong  the  Pali  version,  and  its  translation  by  Dharmaraksha 
and  Fan-pieh-kuh-toh-lun.  Then  comes  a  transition  period,  marked  by  the  incoming 
of  the  enlarged  Sanskrit  version,  and  represented  by  the  older  Samyukta  translation. 
Lastly,  we  have  the  third  period,  in  which  the  Sanskrit  version  is  fully  established, 
and  which  is  represented  by  the  later  Samyukta  and  the  Dharmabhadra  translations. 
This  arrangement  of  periods  is  supported  by  known  dates.     The  Fan-pieh-kuh-idh-lun 

'  [I-tsing  transcribes  the  word  ^awrana  by  ^^  .^S  ^0  S|J  ^?.  In  Dharmaraksha's 
translation  of  another  Pravarana  Sutra  (N.  763),  the  word  is  repeatedly  transcribed  by 
^  ^  M  (T-xiv,  8,  286,  8,  9,  10,  11,  17,  &c.)]. 

*  [Thus  in  the  fifth  verse,  the  older  Samyukta  version, '  As  a  universal  emperor,  followed 
and  surrounded  by  his  ministers,  wanders  through  the  world  up  to  the  great  ocean ', 
represents  the  Pali  readiug  amacca-parivaritu  samantd  anupariyeti,  while  the  later 
Sainyukta  version,  '  As  a  uuiversal  emperor,  getting  the  faithful  heart  of  his  followers, 
with  a  merciful  mind  gives  instruction,  which  tlie  world  reverentially  accepts',  rather 
points  to  the  Sanskrit  reading  sacivaih]. 


38 


MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


was  translated  before  a.  d.  220.  The  separate  translation,  by  Dharmaraksha  was  made 
between  a.  d.  266-317  {San-pao-ki,  fasc.  6,  in  T.  xxxv,  6,  43  5 ;  see  also  N.,  App. 
II,  23,  col.  391).  About  half  a  century  later  the  older  version  of  the  Samyukta 
appeared  under  the  three  Tshin  dynasties,  a.  d.  350-431  (N.  546,  col.  138).  The 
complete  collection  of  the  Samyukta  was  first  translated,  under  the  earlier  Sun 
dynasty  (a.  d.  420-479),  by  Gunavarman,  who  worked  from  A.  D.  435-443  (San- 
tsdn-hi,  fasc.  14,  in  T.  xxxviii,  1,  68a  ;  see  also  N.,  App.,  Nos.  78-9,  col.  415).J 

The  Sanskrit  text  of  the  fragment  is  given  below,  in  parallel  columns  with  the 
Pali  text,  extracted  from  the  Pali  Text  Society's  edition,  pp.  190  ff.  The  first  verse, 
apparently,  is  a  giti  verse  with  an  unusual  scansion.  There  are  thirty  instants  in 
either  line,  which  scan  as  follows  : — 

12  3456  78 


v-*  w  —     \-»  — ■  ^  \ 


w  —  w 


»-'  —  w w^.^ 


The  last  four  feet  in  both  lines  are  exactly  alike,  the  third  and  seventh  feet  are, 
contrary  to  the  usual  rule,  amphibraehs.     The  other  verses  are  regular  slokas. 


TEXT.3 

Obverse. 


Sanskrit. 
Sugata  •  pratibha(<M)  te    YagUa 

Bhagavan    avocat,,    athj^^yus- 

maiii  Vaginas  tasyaiii  velayam 

gatham  ba- 
bhaseii  Iha  pamcat^asi  vi^uddhika 

samita  i  pamca^ata^    ca  bhik- 

savah  samyojana-ba- 
ndhansi,  \  cchidab  *  sarve   ksina- 

bhava  maharsayali  1  Suddha 

upl,safe  ^uddhaiii  vipramukta- 

punarbha- 


Pali. 

Sugata  ti  i  patibhatu  tarii  Vaiigisa 
ti  Bhagava  avoca  i  atha  kho 
ayastna  Vangiso  Bhagavantam 
sammukha  sarupahi  gathahi 

abhitthavi  ii  Ajja  paunarase  visud- 
dhiya  bhikkhii  pancasata  sa- 
magata  i  samyojana-ba- 

ndhana-cchida  anigha  khina-punab- 
bhava  isi  ii  1  ii 


'  Note  the  occurrence  of  the  upadhmaniya  in  rev.  1.  2,  sacivaihparivdritah,  and  of 
initial  au  in  obv.  1.  4,  auddhatya. — On  the  system  of  interpunction,  see  the  note  on  p.  62. 

*  Read  bandhana-cchidah.  The  visarga,  as  well  as  the  usual  double  dot  of  interpunc- 
tion, is  here,  and  throughout  this  fragment,  replaced  by  a  single  stroke.  After  bandhana 
it  might  be  a  mark  of  junction.     See  Note  2  on  p.  51,  and  the  Note  on  pp.  62-3. 


PKAVARANA  StJTEA 


a0 


Sanskrit. 

4  wt  »^  prahlna-jati-maranah  krta- 

krtya  nirasravah  2  Auddhatya- 
vicikite-eccha-mana-^?Y(- 

5  n^^a-bhava-cchidali      trsna-^al- 

yasya  hartaro  'cita-trsna- 
punarbbavah  3  Siriibo  'si 
nirupddanam  prahina- 


Palt. 


Reverse. 


bhaya-bbairava^'upadhim  samati- 
krantah'^  asrawt  nihatas  Hvaya 
4  Cakravarti  ^  y  atba  raja  sacivai- 

b  parivaritah  samaiiitad  anu^as^- 
*imam  sagar-^ihtam  vasun- 
dbaram^  5  Tatba  vijita^-sam- 
gramarii 

sartbavabam  anuttaram^  upasate 
sravakastva^°  traividya-mrtyu- 
bayina  °  6  Putras  ^^  te 

sarva  ev^aite  plavi  by  atra  na 
vidyate  "^  bartararii  sarva-^al- 
yanaiii  vaude  tv#aditya-ban- 
dbavam,  ^^  [7]  l_ 

dam  avocad  Bbagavan  apta- 
manasas^'  te  bbiksavo  Bbaga- 
vato  bbasitam  abbyanandaili^*  11 
Pravarana-sutraiii  11 


Cakkavatti  yatba  raja  aiuacca- 
parivarito  1     samanta     anupariyeti 
sagarantaiia  mahim  imam  11  2  11 
Evarh  vijita-sangamaiii 

sattbavaham  anuttararh  savaka 
payirtipasanti  tevijja  maccu- 
bayino  11  3  11  Sabbe 

Bbagavato  putta  palap-Sttba  na 
vijjati  I  tanba-sallassa  ban- 
taraiii  vande  adicca-bandbu- 
nan  ti 


'  Eead  bhairavah,  and  below,  hdyinah.  '^  Read  samatikranta.  '  Read  nihatds. 

'  Read  cakravarti.  "  Read  vijiia.  "  Read  tvdm. 

"  Pu  has  an  imperfect  stroke  attached,  as  if  it  were  pii ;  of.  su  in  siitram  in  1.  5. 

'^  Tv->Aditycf  is  an  anomalous  contraction  for  tvdm  dditija° ;  similarly  tvAnwiganeyo  in 

rev.  1.  3  on  p.  78. — The  original  omits  7. 

''  See  footnote  2,  p.  26.  '*  Eead  abhyanandan . 


40  MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 

TRANSLATION. 

[Vagisa,  approaching  the  Buddha,  said  '  Am  I  welcome,]  O  Sugata  ? '  '  You 
are  welcome,  VagTsa,'  said  the  Blessed  One.  Then  the  reverend  Vagisa,  at  that  time, 
spoke  the  (following)  hymn : — 

(Verse)  1.  Here  is  the  fifteenth,  the  day  of  purification !  and  assembled  are  the 
five  hundred  monks,  every  one  of  them  severed  from  engrossing  ties,  great  sages, 
having  done  with  the  continuity  of  existence  ; 

2.  Pure,  they  pui-sue  the  pure,  delivered  from  the  necessity  of  re-birth ;  no 
longer  are  they  liable  to  birth  and  death,  having  attained  their  ideal,  and  being 
unswayed  by  the  action  of  the  senses  ; 

3.  Severed  are  they  from  the  bondage  of  arrogance,  unsettledness,  covetousness, 
self-conceit ;  removed  have  they  the  thorn  of  worldliness,  nor  are  they  liable  any 
longer  to  its  renascence. 

4.  A  lion  art  thou,  with  no  attachment  to  life,  having  done  with  fears  and 
terrors ;  overcome  hast  thou  the  (attraction  of  the)  Appearance  ;  and  the  impulses 
of  the  senses  have  been  suppressed  by  thee. 

5.  Just  as  a  world-wide  sovereign,  surrounded  by  trusty  friends,  everywhere 
directs  this  sea-bounded  earth  ; 

6.  So  upon  thee,  the  victorious  cha.mpion,  the  incomparable  leader,  thy  disciples 
wait,  having  abandoned  the  deadweight  of  Brahmanic  theology. 

7.  All  these  are  but  thy  sons  ;  there  is  here  no  (other)  ferryman.^'  I  extol  thee, 
the  remover  of  all  troubleSj  the  friend  of  the  sun. 

This  spoke  the  Blessed  One.-"^^  With  receptive  minds  the  monks  welcomed 
what  was  said  by  the  Blessed  One.     (Here  ends)  the  Pravarana  Sutra. 

8.  CANDKOPAMA   SIJTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^  (Plate  II,  No.  2,  Reverse). 

This  folio  is  mutilated,  about  one-third  of  its  length,  on  the  right  side,  being 
broken  away.  In  its  present  condition  it  measures  about  203  x  62  mm.  (or  8  X 
2|  inches).  Its  full  length  may  have  been  about  284  mm.  (or  11  inches).  It  bears, 
on  either  side,  six  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta  characters,  and  on  the  left 
margin  of  the  reverse  side,  the  folio  number  23.     It  contains  portions  of  two  sutras, 

'^  Figuratively ;  to  ierry  men  across  the  sea,  or  river,  of  mundane  existence. 

'*  The  logical  sequence  is  not  quite  clear;  for  the  hymn  which  immediately  precedes  is 
spoken,  not  by  the  Blessed  One,  but  by  his  disciple  Vagina.  It  may  refer  to  the  preceding 
main  clauses  of  the  sutra,  which  contain  the  Buddha's  declaration  of  Sariputra's  and  the 
other  five  hundred  monks'  innocence  of  all  offence. 


CANDK6PAMA   SUTRA  41 

one  ending  on  the  fifth  line  of  the  obverse  side,  the  other,  which  is  named  the 
Candropama  Sutra,  beginning  on  that  line  and  continuing  on  the  reverse.  As 
the  Candropama  is  a  small  sutra,  the  high  folio  number  shows  that  the  folio  must 
have  belonged  to  a  pothi  which  contained  a  selected  collection  of  sutras. 

[The  Candropama  is  one  of  the  sutras  of  the  Samyukta  Nikaya.  In  the  Pali 
Text  Society's  edition  of  the  Saiiiyukta  Nikaya,  it  is  found  as  the  third  Sutta  of  the 
Kassapa  Section,  in  vol.  ii,  pp.  197-200.  In  the  Chinese  Samyukta  Agama  it 
occurs  in  Fase.  41,  Nanjio,  No.  544,  and  Tokyo,  xiii,  4,  37  b,  2-4.  There  is,  how- 
ever, also  an  older  Chinese  translation  in  Fasc.  6,  and  Tokyo,  xiii,  5,  37  b,  15-18. 
There  exists,  moreover,  a  separate  Chinese  translation  of  the  sutra  by  Danapala,  in 
Tokyo,  xiv,  8,  fol.  S7  b,  16-38  a,  1  :  and  noticed  in  Nanjio,  No.  948.  It  may  be 
noted  that  there  exists  a  shorter  collection  of  twentj^-five  selected  sutras  of  the 
Samyukta  Agama  in  Chinese  (see  Nanjio,  No.  547).  Our  folio  may  belong  to 
a  similar  shorter  collection.  As  may  be  seen  fro.n  the  subjoined  parallel  transcripts, 
the  Sanskrit  version  of  the  Candropama  Sutra  is  much  longer  than  the  Pali ;  and  in 
this  respect  the  Chinese  translation  agrees  closely  with  the  Sanskrit  version  ;  e.  g.  the 
term  cahiismdn,  and  the  clause  repeating  the  praise  of  Kasyapa  (rev.,  11.  1,  4),  are 
not  found  in  the  Pali  version,  but  occur  in  the  Chinese  translation,  which,  therefore, 
clearly,  was  made  from  a  Sanskrit  text,  such  as  in  our  fragment.] 

The  text  of  the  fragment  reads  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 
1  mana  ^  va  brahmana  va  stoka-stokam  muhtirta-muhurtarii  sai'va-satva- 


pr4na-bhutesu  maitram  cittarii  bh 


IS 

2  saiii  sa  cet  ka^cid  upasariikramati  ^  vyado  va  yakso  va  amanusyo  va 

naivasiko  ^  va  avatara-prej 

3  ram  na  labhate  alaiiibanarii  anyatra  sa  vyado  va  yakso  va  amanusyo 

va  naivasili 

4  syats^  tasmat  tarhi  bhiksava  *  stoka-stokaiii  muhurta-mulmrttarii  pur- 

vavad  yavat^  go-ffo  J 

^  Eead  iramana. 

^  Eead  upasamkrdmati,  as  in  rev.  1).  4,  6  ;  so  also  upasamlcramata,  in  rev.  11.  1,  3. 

'  naivdbika  means  ingulfer,  swallower,  an  epithet  of  ajagnra,  pj'thon  ;  see  Mahavastu, 
vol.  iii,  p.  33,  1,  4;  compare  also  the  Vedio  nivasita,  killed,  in  M.  W.  Dy.,  under 
Vvas  3  and  7  (pp.  932,  933).  It  might  also  be  a  confusion  with  nairvdsika,  from 
Vnir-vas ;  and  might  account  for  the  obscure  Pali  nippesika,  v.l.  nibbesika,  in  D.N.  I, 
1,  20,  vol.  i,  p.  8. 

*  bhiksava  for  bhiksavas  or  bhiksava/i ;  with  reference  to  the  dropping  of  the  final 
sibilant  or  visarga,  see  Whitney's  Sanskrit  Grammar  (1st  ed.),  paragr.  173,  p.  55,  and 
Professor  Macdonell's  Vedic  Grammar,  paragr.  78,  e,  2,  p.  71. 


42  MISCELLANEOUS  PEAGMENTS 

5  vyam^  ii      ii  Evaili  may  a  srutam  ekasmiiii  ^  samaye  Bhagavam^  Kaja- 

grhe  viharati  De  ^J 

6  ksun    amantrayati  •  candr6pama   bhiksavo    viharata  -  nityaiii    navaka 

iva  hriman^rtj 

Reverse. 

1  sya    cittaiii    kulany  upasaiiikramata  ^   tadyatha  caksusmam  ^    puruso 

jarodapanam  va  nadi-dur^a|| 

2  sya   cittaih  vyavalokayed  evam    eva  candropama  viharata'  nityam 

navaka  iva  hrima| 

3  krsya  cittaiii  kulany  upasamkramata  -  Kasyapo  hi  bhiksus   candro- 

pamo  viharati  ni(i^«)|| 

4  Vakrsya   kayam  avakrsya  cittarii  kulany  upasaiiikramati  ^  tadyatha 

caksusmam  ^  purusoN 

5  maiii  va  avakrsya  kayam   avakrsya  cittaiii  vyavalokayed  evam  eva 

Kasyapo  hi  bhiksusj 

6  hrimaiii  '^  kulesv  apragalbhah  avakrsya  kayam  avakrsya  cittaiii  kulany 

upasaiiikramati  ^ «-  kiiii  ma^ 

The  relation  of  the  Sanskrit  text  to  the  Pali  is  shown  in  the  subjoined  parallel 
columns : — 


Sanskrit. 
Obv.,  1.  5.  Evaiii  maya  srutam 
ekasmirii  samaye  Bhagavaiii 
Rajagrhe  viharati  ^  Devadatiam 
Idbha-satkdra-slokam  drabhya  hhi- 
[1.  6]ksun  amantrayati  i  candro- 
pama bhiksavo  viharata  i  nityaiii 
navaka  iva  'hrmx&.ntah  kulesv  apra- 
galbhd  avakrsya  kayam  avakr- 


Pali. 

Savatthiyaiii 
viharati 

candupama  bhikkha- 
ve  kulani  vipasaiiikamatha  i  apa- 
kasse  va  kayam  apakasse  va  cittaiii 
nicca  navaka  kulesu  appagabbha  i 


^  Final  n  in  sandhi  invariably  changes  to  anusvara,  instead  of  remaining  unchanged 
according  to  ordinary  practice ;    read  ehasmin,  hhagavan,  caksxismdn,  hnman. 

"  The  line  is  probably  to  be  completed  by  Devadatiam  labha-satkara-ilokam  drabhya 
bhiksun,  &c.,  as  in  Samyutta  Nikaya,  ii,  p.  241. 

'  Read  viharata,  as  in  obv.  1.  6.  The  mark  of  interpunction  (a  dot)  has,  by  a  scribal 
error,  got  attached  to  the  preceding  t,  thus  producing  td. 


CANDKOPAMA   SUTKA 


4S 


Sanskrit. 
Rev.,  1.  1,  sya  cittarii  kulany 
upasamkramata  i  tadyatha  cak- 
susmarh  puruso  jarodapanaiii  va 
nadidur^a?»  vd  parvata-visamam  vd 
avakrsya  kdyam  avakr\\.  2]sya  cit- 
tam  vyavalokayed  evam  eva 
candr6pama  viharata  nityaiii 
navaka  iva  hrimam^aA  kulesv 
apragalbhd  avakrsya  kayam  ava- 
il. 3]krsya  cittarh  kulany  upa- 
samkramata [i]  Ka^yapo  hi 
bliiksu^  candropamo  viharati 
nityam  navaka  iva  hrimdn  kulesv 
apragalbho  [1.  4]  vakrsya  kayam 
avakrsya  cittam  kulany  upasam- 
kramati  i  tadyatha  caksusmaiii 
'pxnixxso  jar6dapdnai'n  vd  nadi-dwgaih 
vd  parvata-visa\\..  5]marh  va  ava- 
krsya kayam  avakrsya  cittam 
vyavalokayed  evam  eva  Kasyapo 
hi  bhiksu^  candropamo  viharati 
nityam  navaka  iva  [1.  6]  hrimaiia 
kulesv  apragalbhah  avakrsya 
kayam  avakrsya  cittam  kulany 
upasaiiikramati  i  kirii  many  at  ha, 
&c. 


Pali. 

seyyathapi 
bhikkhave  puriso  jarudapanaiii  va 
olokeyya  pabbata-visamarii  va  nadi- 
duggaiii  va  apakasse  va  kayam 
apakasse  va  cittam  i  evam  eva 
kho  bhikkhave  candupama  kulani 
upasamkamatha  apakasse  va  kayam 
apakasse  va  cittarh  nicca  navaka 
kulesu  appagabbha  i 

Kassapo  bhik- 
khave candupamokulaniupasamka- 
mati  apakasse  va  kayam  apakasse 
va  cittam  nicca  navako  kulesu 
appagabbho i 


tarn  kiiii  maiinatha,  &c. 


TRANSLATION. 

Thus  it  has  been  heard  by  me.  At  one  time  the  Blessed  One  was  staying  in 
Rajagriha.  Referriug  to  Devadatta,  who  boasted  of  his  gain  and  honour,  he  said  to 
his  disciples,  '  Ye  monks  should  resemble  the  moon,  always  be  like  the  new  moon, 
modest,  unassuming  among  the  people,  controlling  your  body,  controlling  your 
mind,  (while  you)  move  among  the  people.     Just  as  a  man  with  eyes  would  keep 


44  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

a  look-out  for  old  (disused)  wells,  or  impassable  holes  in  a  river,  or  dangerous 
precipices  on  a  mountain,  controlling  his  body  and  mind ;  even  so  do  ye,  resembling 
the  moon,  be  always  like  the  new  moon,  modest,  unassuming  among  the  people, 
controlling  your  body  and  mind  (while  ye)  move  among  the  people.  For  Kasyapa 
was  a  monk,  resembling  the  moon,  always  like  the  new  moon,  modest,  unassuming 
among  the  people,  controlling  his  body  and  his  mind  (while  he)  moved  among  the 
people.  Just  as  a  man  with  eyes  keeps  a  look-out  for  old  (disused)  wells,  or  impassable 
holes  in  a  river,  or  dangerous  precipices  on  a  mountain,  controlling  his  body  and  his 
mind,  even  so  Kasyapa  lived  a  monk,  resembling  the  moon,  always  like  the  new 
moon,  modest,  unassuming  among  the  people,  controlling  his  body  and  his  mind 
(while  he)  moved  about.     What  think  ye  ?  &c. 

Note  :  JaroJapdna  and  its  Pali  equivalent  jarudapdna  is  not  noticed  in  any 
Sanskrit  or  Pali  Dictionary.  Dr.  Watanabe  states  that  in  the  Chinese  translation 
of  Danapala  it  is  rendered  by  ^  y\^  >^  1^, '  deep  and  great  water ',  while  nadidurga 
is  rendered  by  ^  |^  jj^  ^,  '  dangerous  rivers  and  streams ',  and  parvaia-visama 
by  [Jj  ^  ^  ~]^  ,  '  mountains  and  cliffs,  up  and  down '.  But  it  really  signifies 
an  old,  disused  well.  In  India  such  wells  are  still,  and  were  much  more  so  formerly, 
a  source  of  danger  to  any  unwary  wanderer  in  the  country. 


9.  ^AKTI   StJTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^,  Obverse. 

The  conclusion  of  this  sutra  stands  on  the  obverse  of  the  fragment  which 
has  been  described  in  the  preceding  article  on  the  Candropama  Sutra.  Its  text, 
a  transcript  of  which  has  been  given  in  that  article,  occupies  the  initial  fom-  lines  of 
the  obverse,  while  the  rest  of  the  fragment  is  occupied  with  the  Candropama  Sutra. 

[According  to  Dr.  Watanabe,  the  sutra  of  which  we  have  here  the  conclusion, 
corresponds  to  the  Satti  Sutta  which  is  the  fifth  of  the  Opamma  Samyutta  in  the 
Pali  Samyutta  Nikaya,  in  the  Pali  Text  Society's  edition.  Part  II,  p.  265.  There  is, 
however,  as  may  be  seen  from  the  subjoined  comparative  table,  no  actual  textual 
agreement  between  the  Sanskrit  and  Pali  versions.  A  Chinese  version  of  the  sutra 
occurs  in  the  later  translation.  Ease.  47,  Tokyo,  xiii,  4,  75  a,  13-14,  where,  however, 
it  bears  no  name.  In  the  older  Chinese  translation  it  is  not  found.  As  the  com- 
parative table  shows,  the  Chinese  version  is  a  translation,  supplied  by  Dr.  Watanabe, 
of  a  rather  shorter  Sanskrit  version  than  that  of  our  fragment.] 


SAKTI   SUTEA 


45 


Pali. 

[Clause  5.]  Evam 
eva  kho  bhikkhave 
yassa  kassaci  metta 
cetovimutti  bhavita 
babul  ikata  yanikata 
vatthukata  anuttbita 
paricita  susama  va- 
ddba  II  Tassa  ce  ama- 
niisso  cittaiii  kbipitab- 
barii  mafiiieyya  ii  atha 
kho  svedha  amanusso 
kilamatbassa  vigba- 
tassa  bhagi  assa  ii 


[Clause  6.]  Tasmat 
iha  bbikkhave  evam 
sikkbitabbam  i  Metta 
no  ceto  vimutti  bha- 
vita bhavissati  ba- 
hulikata  yanikata  vat- 
thukata anuttbita  pa- 
ricita susama  vaddha 
ti  II  Evam  hi  kho 
bbikkhave  sikkhitab- 
ban  ti  ii 


Sanskrit. 

Ohv.,  1.  1.  Ye  Sra- 
mana  va  brahmana  va 
stoka-stokam  muhu- 
rta-muhurtam  sarva- 
satva  -pr4na  -  bhutesu 
maitraiii  cittaiii  bba- 
vayeyuh  .  .  .  te-\\.  2] 
saiii  sa  cet  ka^cid 
upasamkramati  vyado 
va  yakso  va  amanu- 
syo   va  naivasiko  va 

avatara  -preksi 

[1.  3]  raiii  na  labhate 
alambanam  anyatra  sa 
vyado  va  yakso  va 
amanusyo  va  naivasi- 
ho  va  .  .  .  [I.  4]  syatx 

Tasmat  tarhi  bhi- 
ksava  stoka-stokam 
muhurta  -  muhurttarii 
purvavad  yavatv  go- 
dohana-matram  mai- 
tra-cittam  IJiavayita- 
[1.  5]vyam\  ii 


Chinese  (W.). 

If  Sramanas  or  Brah- 
manas,  [_moment  after 
moment,  minute  after 
minute^l  practise  a  mer- 
ciful mind  towards  aU 
living  beings,  (up  to  the 
time  of  milking  a  cow), 
then  aU  malignant  spirits 
who  are  seeking  the 
weakness  of  others  can- 
not find  a  chance,  (and 
they  shall  destroy  them- 
selves on  the  contrary.) 


Therefore  all  Bhiksus 
shall  learn  to  have  a 
merciful  mind,  and  prac- 
tise it  repeatedly  always 
at  all  times  up  to  the 
time  of  milking  cows. 


'  ['  These  words  are  omitted  in  the  Chinese  translation  of  this  sutra,  but  they  occur, 
B^  'fff  ^^  J^,  in  a  preceding  sutra  (Tokyo,  xiii,  4,  75a,  1.  4),  where  they  express  the 
same  thought,  in  the  same  construction  with  another  simile.'  W.] 


46  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

TRANSLATION. 

If  Sramanas  and  Brahmanas  will,  moment  after  moment,  minute  after  minute, 
exercise  a  merciful  mind  toward  all  existing,  living  beings,  [line  2]  then  if  any 
mischievous  being,  or  Yaksba,  or  superhuman  being,  or  devouring  spirit/  desire  to 
descend  to  make  an  attack  upon  them,  [1.  3]  that  mischievous  being,  or  Yaksha, 
or  superhuman  being,  or  swallowing  spirit  shall  not  find  any  opportunity  to  do  so. 
[1.  4]  Therefore,  O  Bhikshus,  do  ye,  fi"om  moment  to  moment,  from  minute  to  minute, 
up  to  the  time  of  milking  cows,^  exercise  a  merciful  mind  towards,  &c.,  as  before. 

10.  6UKA   StJTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  Nos.  149  f  and  |  (Plate  II,  No.  3,  Reverse). 

These  two  folios  are  in  an  excellent  state  of  preservation.  They  are  complete 
and  consecutive  folios,  measuring  about  260  x  60  mm.  (lOf-  x  2-|  inches),  and  bearing, 
on  the  left  side  of  the  reverse  margin,  the  folio-numbers  56  and  57.  To  judge  from 
these  high  numbers,  the  two  folios  must  have  belonged  to  a  large  pothi,  containing 
several  sutras,  possibly  a  pothi  of  one  of  the  sections  of  the  Madhj^ama  Agama. 
Each  of  their  four  pages  bears  six  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta  characters. 

They  are  inscribed  with  a  small  portion  of  the  Suka  Sutra,  which  is  one  of  the 
sutras  of  the  Madhyama  Agama.  In  the  Chinese  translation  of  that  Agama  it  is 
the  170th  sutra  (Nanjio,  No.  542,  col.  132).  In  the  Pali  Majjhima  Nikaya  it  corre- 
sponds to  the  135th  siitra,  Cula-kammavibhanga  Sutta  (PTS.  ed.,  vol.  iii,  pp. 
202-6).  It  will  be  seen,  however,  from  the  subjoined  parallel  transcripts,  that 
though  the  general  tenour  of  the  Sanskrit  and  Pali  versions  is  the  same,  their 
correspondence,  in  point  of  wording,  is  of  a  very  loose  character;  neither  version 
can  be  called  exactly  a  translation,  or  transcription,  of  the  other.  The  Suka  Sutra 
explains  the  doctrine  of  Karma,  or  Retribution,  by  way  of  enumerating  a  series  of  good 
or  bad  retributive  effects,  in  a  future  existence,  of  varieties  of  human  conduct  in  the 
present  existence.  In  the  two  versions  the  sequence  of  the  retributive  conditions 
does  not  quite  agree.  In  the  Sanskrit  version  the  (ixth  and  xth)  paragraphs  on 
the  causes  of  being  re-born  in  a  low  or  high  family  precede  the  (xith  and  xiith) 
paragraphs  referring  to  re-birth  in  a  state  of  penury  or  affluence.  In  the  Pali 
version  that  sequence  is  just  the  reverse.  In  both  respects,  wording  and  sequence, 
the  Sanskrit  text  very  closely  accords  with  the  Chinese  translation.     There  are  how- 

'^  On  naivdsika  see  footnote  3  on  page  41.  All  four  terms  refer  to  classes  of 
superhuman  beings,  inimical  to  men. 

"  The  completion  of  the  mutilated  clause,  which  does  not  occur  in  the  Pali  Satti 
Sutta,  is  supplied  from  the  preceding  Ukka  Sutta  (p.  264,  clause  2) :  gadduhana-mattam 
pi  metta-cittam  hhaveyya. 


SUKA  SUTRA 


^7 


ever,  according  to  Dr.  Watanabe's  notes,  five  Chinese  translations  of  the  sutra, 
which,  in  extent,  differ  from  one  another ;  but  from  the  indications  in  our  frag-ment 
of  the  Sanskrit  version  regarding  the  order  of  the  retributive  states  (see  below),  it  is 
possible  to  determine  the  translation  of  which  it  must  be  the  original. 

[The  five  Chinese  translations  are  those  noted  in  Nanjio's  Catalogue  as  Nos.  542 
(sutra  170,  in  col.  132),  610,  611,  739,  and  783.  Of  these  No.  54,2  is  an  integral 
part  of  the  Madhyama  Agama  ;  all  the  others  are  separate  translations  of  the  sutra. 
In  the  case  of  No.  739,  the  textual  extent  of  the  sutra  accords,  as  Dr.  Watanabe 
observes^  much  more  nearly  with  the  Pali  version.  The  latter,  after  a  general 
remark,  at  once  proceeds  to  the  exposition  of  the  above-mentioned  series  of  retributive 
states,  after  which  it  finishes  with  a  summary,  and  a  concluding  remark.  All  the 
Chinese  translations,  with  the  exception  of  No.  739,  insert,  after  the  opening  remark, 
an  introductory  story  of  a  white  dog  in  the  house  of  a  grhapati,  or  householder, 
named  Suka  in  Sravasti,  a  precis  of  which  is  given  in  No.  611.  In  these  transla- 
tions, accordingly,  the  sutra  is  represented  as  having  been  spoken  in  reply  to  a  query 
by  the  grhapati  Suka,  while  in  the  Pali  version  it  is  represented  as  addressed  to 
a  manava,  or  '  young  man '  Subha  of  the  Todeyya  family,  who  in  the  Subha  Sutta 
(PTS.,  vol.  ii,  p.  196)  is  described  as  a  Brahman  grhapati.  On  the  other  hand. 
No.  739,  as  well  as  No.  783,  agree  in  very  considerably  augmenting  the  original 
series  of  retributive  states.  In  the  Pali  version,  and  in  the  Chinese  translation 
included  in  the  Madhyama  Agama,  the  number  of  those  states  is  fourteen,  but  in 
No.  739  it  is  increased  to  sixty-two,  and  in  No.  783  even  to  seventy-one.^ 

With  regard  to  the  question,  of  which  of  the  five  Chinese  translations  our 
fragment  of  the  Sanskrit  text  is  the  original,  Dr.  Watanabe  supplies  the  subjoined 
comparative  table  of  the  serial  order  of  the  retributive  states. 

Order. 


State. 


Alpa-sakya 

Maha-sakya 

Nica-kula 

Ucca-kula 

Alpa-bhoga 

Maha-bhoe:a 


Chinese.       | 

739 

783    542 

vii 

ix 

vii 

viu 

X 

Vlll 

IX 

Vll 

XI 

X 

Vlll 

Xll 

XI 

xi 

IX 

XIJ 

Xll 

X 

Pali. 


Vll 

viii 
xi 
xii 
ix 

X 


Dr.  Watanabe  incidentally  observes  that  the  two  ideograms   i&   sB 


7C,Pjt 


tou-thido,  in 


the  title  of  No.  611,  do  not  represent  the  Sanskrit  devadatta,  but  Suka's  patronymic 
Taudeya  (Pali  todeyya-putta),  which  in  No.  783  is  transcribed  by  to  "fffi^  ^'  tou  erh 
(ni)  yeh. 


48 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


This  table  shows  that  ouv  Sanskrit  text  is  the  basis  of  the  Chinese  translation, 
No.  739 ;  for  in  both  the  retributive  states  stand  in  the  same  order.  The  order  in  the 
translation,  No.  54-2,  which  is  included  in  the  Madhyama  Agama,  agrees  with  that 
in  the  Pali  version,  while  No.  783  has  a  peculiar  order  of  its  own.] 

The  Sanskrit  text  of  the  two  folios  is  given  below  in  parallel  columns,  with 
the  Pali  text,  extracted  from  the  Pali  Text  Society's  edition,  vol.  ii,  pp.  204-5. 


Folio  56. 

Sanskpjt. 

1  [vii]  sakjat  kusala-mulad  vicchan- 

danam^,  alpa-sakyanaiii  pudga- 

lanaiii    paribliavah   ime    dasa 

dharma  alpa-sakja- 


2  saiiivartaiiiyah  ii     [viii]    Dasa  • 

dharma  malia-sakya^-saiiivar- 
taniyah  katame  dasa  •  anirs- 
yukah'  paras va  labha-satka- 
ra- 

3  glokair  attamanata  parasya  kirti- 

^abda  -  slokair  attamanata, : 
ryatra  *-pradanam\  bodhicitt- 
otpadah 

4  Tathagata :  bimba-karanam\  ma- 

tapitf  naiii  pratyudgamanam  \ 
aryanam  pratyudgamanam,^ 
alpa-sakyat  ku^a- 

5  la-miilad    viccliandanamx    maha- 

sakye  kusala-mule  samadapa- 
nam\,  ime  daSa  dharma  maha- 
sakya-sariivartani- 


Obverse. 

Pali. 

Page  204.  [vii]  Idha  manava  ekacco 
itthi  va  puriso  va  issamanako 
hoti,  &c.  ;  so  kammena  evam 
samattena,  &c.,  appesakkho 
hoti ;  appe-sakkha-sariivatta- 
nika  esa  ;  &c. 

Page  205.  [viii]  Idha  pana  manava 
ekacco  itthl  va  puriso  va  anis- 
samaiiako  hoti  para-labha-sak- 
kara  -  garukara  -  manana  -  van- 
dana-pujana&u  na  issati  na  upa- 
dussati  na  issaiii  bandhati ;  so 
tena  kammena  evam  sama- 
ttena evarii  samadinnena 
kayassa  bheda  pararii  marana 
sugatirii  saggaiii  lokarh  uppaj- 
jati  ;  no  ce  kayassa  bheda 
pararii  marana  sugatim  saggam 
lokarii  paccajayati  mahesakkho 
hoti  ;  mahesakkha  samvat- 
tanika  esa  manava  patipada 
yadidam  anissamanako,  &c,,  na 
issarfi  bandhati  ii 


^  Read  ialcya.  '  Read  anirsyukah. 

*  Read  ydtra,  the  figa  of  r  above  y  being  a  clerical  error  for  the  sign  of  length 


SUKA  SUTRA 


49 


Fol.  56. 

Sanskrit. 

1  yah  II  [ix]  Da^a  •  dharma    nica- 

kula-saiiivartaniyah  katame 
da^a  •^  amatrjnata  «^  apitrjiia- 
ta  "^  a^ramanyata  "^ 

2  abrahmanyata  °  •^  kule  na  jyesth- 

^nupalakatvam^  asanadi  °  na 
pratyutthananQx  asane  na 
nimantranam\ 

3  matapitror    asusrnsa ''    aryanam 

aSusrusa '  nica-kula-jatanam 
pudgalanam  antike  *  pari- 

4  bhavah   ime    da^a  dharma  nica- 

kuhi-saiiivartaniya.  ^  ii  [x]  Dasa 
dharma  ucca-kula-saiiivartani- 
yah  katame  dasa : 

5  matrjuutfi        pitrjnata  "^  sraman- 

yata  •^  brahmanyata  »»  kuk^ 
jyesth-anupalakatvam\  asanat 
pratyutt/ia- 


Reverse. 

Pali. 

[xi]  Idha  manava  ekacco  itthi  va 
puriso  va  thaddho  hoti  atimani 
abhivadetabbarii  na  abhivadeti 
paccutthatabbarii  na  paccutth- 
eti  asanarahassa  asanam  na 
deti  maggarahassa  na  maggam 
deti  sakkatabbaih  na  sakka- 
roti  garukatabbaiii  na  garu- 
karoti  manetabbarii  na  maneti 
pujetabbam  na  ptijeti ;  so,  &c., 
nicakulino  hoti ;  nicakuhna- 
sarhvattanika  esa,  &c.  ii 

[xii]  Idha  pana  manava  ekacco  itthi 
va  puriso  va  atthadho  hoti  ana- 
timani  abliivadetabljarh  abhi- 
vadeti paccutthatabbarii  joac- 
cuttheti  asanarahassa  asanam 
deti  maggarahassa  maggarii 
deti    sakkatabbarii    sakkaroti 


Fob  57.     Obverse. 


1  nam^   asanen^abhiniraaiiitranamx 

matapitroh  snsrusa  «^  aryanarh 
^u^rusa  nica-kula-jatanam  pu- 

2  dgalanaiii  aparibhavah  ime  da^a 

dharma  ucca-kula-saiiivartani- 


garukatabbaiii  garukaroti  ma- 
netabbarii maneti  pujetabbarii 
ptijeti ;  so  tena  kammena  ucca- 
kulinohoti ;  uccakuhna-sariiva- 
ttanika  esa,  &c.  ii 


^  Bead  abralimanyatd. 

^  Read  dsandd.  The  vowel  mark  for  i  over  d  is  really  meant  for  the  superscript 
curve  which  marks  the  virama ;  and  d  should  have  been  written  below  the  line,  exactlj'  as 
in  the  case  of  the  final  m  of  the  following  word. 

'  Head  aiuirusd,  as  below  in  iusrusd,  fol.  57,  obv.  1.  1. 

*  And  ibid.,  antike  looks  like  andhike,  on  account  of  the  slovenly  written  nt. 

^  Read  samvartanlydh. 

678  E 


50 


MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 


Sanskrit. 
vrda  II  [xi]  Da§a  dharma  "^  alpa- 
bhooa-samva- 

3  I'taniyali  katame  da^a  -^  adatt^da- 

nam  "^  adatt^dana  :  samadapa- 
namy  adattadanasA'a 

4  ca   varna-vadita  •  adattadanena 

attamanata  matapitrnaiii  vi'tt^'- 
npaccliedali  aiyanam  vrty^"- 
upa- 

5  cchedahparasya  alabliena  attama- 

nata paras}-a  labhena  ii#^tta- 
manata  '^  parasya  labh-iiutara- 

Fol.  57. 

1  3^0  durbbt^sa-yacana  ca  -^  ime  da- 

^a  dbarma  alpa-bhoga-saiiivar- 
taniyah  ii  [xii]  Da^a  dharma 
mahabboga-saihvarta- 

2  niyah      katame       da^a  -^  danam 

adatt^dana-vairamanam  "^  ad- 
att^dana-vairamanasya  varna- 
vadita  • 

3  adattidana-vairamanena  attama- 

nata "^  parasya  alabhena  anat- 
tamanata  ^^  parasya 

4  labbena  attamanata  parasya  labh- 

odvogah  danasyi=abhyanumo- 
danamy  dan  -  adhimuktanfuii 
pudga- 

5  lanam  sampraharsanam^  subbiksa- 

yacana  ca  •  ime  da^a  dbarma 
mahabhoga  :  samvartanivah  ii 


Pali. 
[ix]  Idbamanava  ekacco  itthi  vapu- 
riso  va  na  data  hoti  samanassa 
va  brabmanassa  va  annaiia  pa- 
narii  vattbarii  yanarii  mala- 
gandba-vilepanaiii  seyyavasa- 
thapadipey}'aiii ;  so  tena  kam- 
mena  evaih  samattena  evaih 
saraildinneua  kayassabheda  pa- 
raiii  marana  apayaiii  duggatiiii 
vinipataiia  nirayaiii  uppajjati ; 
no  ce  kayassalihedaparam,  &c., 
yattba  yattba  paccaja- 

Eeverse. 

yati    appabhogo    hoti  ;    appa- 
bboga-sarhvattanikil  esa,  &c. 

X  Idba  pana  manava  ekacco  itthi 
va  puriso  \'a  datil  hoti  sama- 
nassa vil  brabmanassa  va 
annarii  panaiii  vatthaiii  yanarin 
mala-gandha-vilepanam  sey- 
yavasatbapadipevyam  ;  so  te- 
na kammeua  evarii  samattena 
evarii  samadinnena  kayassa 
blieda  paraiii  marana  sugatirii 
saggaih  lokarh.  uppajjati ;  no  ce 
kayassa  bheda  pararii  marana 
sugatim  saggaiii  lokarii  uppaj- 
jati, &c.,  yattba  yattba  pacca- 
jayati  mababhogo  hoti  ;  maha- 
bbog-a-sarhvattanika  esa,  &c.  ii 


Eead  vrtty-. 


SUKA  SUTRA  51 

NOTES. 

1.  The  following  words  are  not  noticed  in  any  Sanskrit  dictionary  :  fol.  56  a*-'^, 
vicchandana ,  contentment  with. ;  fol.  56  a",  amrsyuJca,  freedom  from  envy  ;  fol.  56  a™ 
et  'passim,  dttamanatd,  ready-mindedness,  readiness  (see  footnote  2  on  p.  26) ;  fol. 
56  J",  anupdlakatva,  cherishing,  supporting  ;  fol.  57  d>,  abhinimantrana,  inviting  ; 
fol.  57a'"'  and  fol.  575'',  vama-vAditd,  speaking  in  praise  of;  fol.  575'^,  ahhyanu- 
modana,  approval.  Nor,  fol.  57  &"• '",  vairamana  with  the  general  meaning  of  '  abstain- 
ing from  ' ;  nor,  fol.  56  a"',  ydtra,  journey,  as  a  neuter ;  nor,  fol.  ^7h'-^,  durhJtiksd  and 
suhhiksd  as  feminines.     Nor,  buddhist  terms  such  as  iodhicittotpdda,  fol.  56  a"'. 

2.  Regarding  the  system  of  interpunction,  see  the  Note  on  p.  62.  The  double 
dot  is  sometimes  found,  (1)  to  mark  interpunction,  as  in  fol.  56  «"'  (after  dttamanatd), 
and  fol.  56  5'^  (after  katame  dam),  or  (2)  to  mark  composition,  as  in  fol.  56  a"  (in 
Tathdfjata-bimha)  \  fol.  57a"'  (in  adattddana-samdddjMna)  ;  fol.  575^  (in  inaJidMoga- 
samvartaniydli),  also  (in  this  case  a  bar)  in  No.  7,  obv.  1.  3  (p.  38),  handhana-ccJiidali , 
though  the  double  dot,  or  bar,  thus  used,  may  be  a  mere  scribal  error. 

TRANSLATION. 

(J^ol.  56  «.)     [vii.] ,  contentment  with  a  position  (only  of  great)  power, 

contempt  of  persons  of  small  power  :  these  ten  ways  of  conduct  needs  lead  to  re- 
birth in  a  state  of  small  power. 

[viii.]  Ten  are  the  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  state  of 
great  power.  Which  are  these  ten  ways  ?  They  are,  freedom  from  envy,  a  ready  mind 
to  congratulate  another  on  his  success,  a  ready  mind  to  praise  another,  gifts  for  a 
journey,  fostering  a  mind  for  the  truth,  tnaking  images  of  the  Tathagata,  advancing 
to  meet  one's  parents,  advancing  to  meet  respectable  people,  contentment  with 
a  position  of  great  power,  taking  the  cost  of  (religious)  enterprises  on  one's  self 
when  in  a  position  of  great  power :  these  are  the  ten  ways  of  conduct  that  needs 
lead  to  re-birth  in  a  state  of  great  power. 

(Fol.  56^.)  [ix.]  Ten  are  the  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in 
a  low  family.  Which  are  those  ten  ways  ?  They  are,  not  honouring  one's  mother, 
not  honouring  one's  father,  not  living  like  a  Sramana,  not  living  like  a  Brahmana,-''^ 
not  cherishing  the  elders  in  one's  community,  not  rising  from  one's  seat  to  receive 
them,  not  inviting  them  to  a  seat,  not  caring  to  listen  to  one's  father  and  mother,  not 
caring  to  listen  to  respectable  people,  contemptuousness  in  the  presence  of  persons  born 
of  a  low  family  :  these  are  the  ten  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  low 
family. 

[x.]  Ten  ways  of  conduct  there  are  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  high  family. 
Which  are  those  ten  ways  of  conduct?    They  are,  honouring  one's  mother,  honouring 


"  According  to  Dr.  Watanabe,  the  Chinese  translation  has  '  not  honouring  the 
Sramanas,  not  honouring  the  Brahmanas ',  which  presupposes  the  textual  reading  airama- 
najnatd.  abrahmanajnatd. 

B  2 


62  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

one's  father, living  like  a  Sramana,  living'  like  a  Brahmana/^  cherishing  the  elders  in 
one's  community,  rising  from  one's  seat  to  receive  them,  (Fol.  57  a)  inviting  them  to 
a  seat,  caring  to  listen  to  one's  father  and  mother,  caring  to  listen  to  respectable  people, 
not  being  contemptuous  towards  persons  born  of  a  low  family :  these  are  the  ten 
ways  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  high  family. 

[xi.]  Ten  are  the  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  state  of  small 
means.  Which  are  those  ten  ways  of  conduct  ?  They  are,  taking  things  wrongfully, 
taking  the  costs  of  enterprises  on  one's  self  with  things  taken  wrongfull}^,  speaking  in 
favour  of  taking  things  wrongfully,  rejoicing  in  taking  things  wrongfully,  cutting 
off  the  livelihood  of  parents,  cutting  off  the  livelihood  of  respectable  people,  rejoicing 
in  the  ill-success  of  another,  not  rejoicing  in  the  success  of  another,  interfering  with 
the  success  of  another,  (Fol.  57  b)  and  begging  at  a  time  of  famine  :  these  are  the 
ten  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  state  of  small  means. 

[xii.]  Ten  are  the  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  state  of  large 
means.  Which  are  those  ten  ways  of  conduct  ?  They  are,  giving  largesses,  abstaining 
from  taking  things  wrongfully,  speaking  in  favour  of  the  abstention  from  taking 
things  wrongfully,  rejoicing  in  the  abstention  of  taking  things  wrongfully,  not 
rejoicing  in  the  ill-success  of  another,  rejoicing  in  the  success  of  another,  pro- 
moting the  success  of  another,  approving  the  giving  of  largesses,  encouraging  persons 
who  are  disposed  to  giving  largesses,  and  begging  in  a  time  of  plenty :  these  are  the 
ten  ways  of  conduct  that  needs  lead  to  re-birth  in  a  condition  of  large  means. 

11.  THE  MAHAPRATYANGIRA   DHARANl 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  150^  (Plate  II,  No.  4,  Obverse). 

This  folio  contains  a  small  portion  of  the  Mahapratyangira  Dharani.  It 
is  a  complete  folio,  measuring  245  x  46  mm.  (9j?o  x  If  inches).  It  bears,  on 
each  side,  four  lines  of  calKgraphic  writing  in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  and  on  the 
left  margin  of  the  obverse  side,  the  folio-number  6.  The  character  of  the  calligraphic 
script  is,  in  the  main,  of  exactly  the  same  type  as  that  of  the  Saddharma-pundarlka 
manuscripts,  shown  on  Plate  XVIII,  and  fully  discussed  by  Professor  Liiders  (pp.  140ff.). 
For  the  present  purpose,  it  will  suffice  to  point  out  that  the  peculiar  Khotanese  rr 
occurs  regularly  in  vaj'rra  (obv.  U.  2,  4)  and  hhaclrra  (rev.  1.  2),  and  optionally  in  the 
prefix ^m  {praihd,  rev.  1.  1),  or prm  (prraMd,  obv.  L  4s;j}rram-s-/ds,  rev.  1.  2)  ;  but  not 
in  mundra  (rev.  1.  1)  and  graliandm  (rev.  1.  4),  nor  ever  in  trim  (rev.  11.  3,  4).  Also, 
the  occurrence  of  the  peculiar  prone  i  in  mdl'ikd  (obv.  1.  3)  may  be  noted. 

To  judge  from  the  number  of  the  folio,  the  pothi  to  which  it  belonged 
commenced  with  the  Mahapratyangira  Dharani;  and  in  all  probability,  as  may 
be  inferred  from  the  insertion  of  the  name  of  the  writer,  or  owner,  of  the  pothi  (see 


THE   MAHAPRATYANGIRA  DHARANI  5S 

footnote  15),  it  contained  no  more  than  that  Dharani.  Pothis  of  that  content  were 
not  uncommon.  There  are,  e.  g-.  the  Nepalese  manuscripts,  Nos.  61  and  77,  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society  Collection  (Cat.,  pp.  43,  49),  Add.  1348  and  1358  of  the 
Cambridge  Collection  (Cat.,  pp.  63,  68),  and  No.  46,  of  the  Bengal  Asiatic  Society 
Collection  (Cat.,  p.  227).  There  is  also  the  Roll,  Ch.  0041,  from  the  Temple 
Library  near  Tim-huang,  in  the  Stein  Collection,  which  is  noticed  in  the 
Journal  RAS.,  1911,  pp.  460  ff.,  and  which  contains  the  Dharani  in  the  peculiar 
eoiTupt  Sanskrit  cui'rent  in  certain  parts  of  Eastern  Turkestan.  The  text  of 
our  fragment  occupies  11.  36-43  of  that  Roll.^  There  are,  further,  two  Chinese 
translations,  one  of  which  (Tokyo,  xxvii,  6,  19  a,  11-16)  is  noticed  in  Nanjio, 
No.  1016. 

[With  regard  to  these  Chinese  translations.  Dr.  Watanabe  notes  that  both  were 
made  under  the  Yuen  dynasty  (a.d.  1280-1368).  The  other  translation  (Tokyo,  xxvii, 
6,  21  i'^-22a'^),  which  is  not  noticed  in  Nanjio's  Catalogue,  was  made  by  Sha-lo-pa, 
who  died  a.d.  1314  (see  Nanjio^  No.  170,  col.  458).  The  whole  of  the  Sanskrit  text 
of  the  Mahapratyangirfi  Dharani  was  transcribed  in  Chinese  characters  (Tokyo,  xxv, 
6,  50  «^~^^)  by  the  famous  mystic  teacher  Amoghavajra  (a.  d.  704-774 ;  see  Nanjio, 
No.  155,  col.  444),  and  incised  by  the  court  chaplain  fl"  ^  ,^  on  a  stone  tablet, 
which  was  set  up  in  the  court  monastery  w  ^  ^,  or  Blue-dragon-temple 
in  Chan-an.  It  may  be  added  that  the  Dharani  exists  also  in  the  Jajjanese  Tripi- 
taka.] 

The  portion  of  the  Dharani,  which  is  comprised  in  our  fragment,  contains,  in  the 
main,  a  series  of  epithets  of  the  goddess  Tara,  written  in  Sanskrit  sloka  verses,  more 
or  less  corrupt.     It  runs  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  s^ca  santa  vaiclaisa*-pujita  sauma-rvipa '^  maha-sveta  arya-tara  maha- 

2  bala  "^  apara  vajrra-saiiikala  c*aiva  vajrra-kau«^arI  kulaiiidhari  vajrra- 

3  hasta  ca  vidya  kamcana-mallka  •  kusumbha-ratana  Vairaucana-kurya 

'  The  Dharani  is  included  also  in  the  Gigantic  Roll,  noticed  in  the  same  Journal, 
pp.  470,  471-3.  There  it  occupies  11.  46-55.  In  both  Eolls  the  full  name  of  the 
Dharani  is  Tathdgatdmlsa-sitdtapatram  nama  apardjita  mahdpratyangird.  Translated 
into  Tibetan,  it  is  found,  as  Col.  Waddell  informs  me,  in  Kagyur,  Tautra  section,  Vol.  Ph 
(14),  fols.  212-24,  and  in  a  shorter  recension,  in  fols.  224-9;  also  in  the  Dharani  section, 
YolWa,  fols.  133-8  (Schmidt's  Catalogue  of  Kagyur,  p.  163). 

^  [The  life  of  this  chaplain,  Bi   Yih  ^£,  is  not  known.     W.] 

'  i  is  written  in  small  size  above  ca. 

■■  Or  possibly  vaide^a ;  for  tlie  upper  curve  indicative  of  ai  is  partially  rubbed  off, 
and  may  be  cancelled. 

"  ru  is  badly  formed,  as  if  it  were  rthd  or  tthd. 


54  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

4  rth-ausnisa  vajrrembliamana "  '.n&.  ca  vajrra-kanaka-prrabha  lauvana  "^ 

vajrra-     ndi  * 

Reverse. 

1  ca  .sveta   ca   kamal-aksa    ^asi-prabha    ity   ete    mundra-gana '   sarve 

raksaiii  kurvam- 

2  ti  mama  Kumara-bhadrrasya  ii  Om,^  risi-gana-prra^astas  Tathagat-osni- 

3  sa  hum  trtim  y«H'i.bbana  huiii  trurii  stambhana  hum  triim  para-vidya- 

saiiibhaksaiia-kara  huiii 

4  trurn  sarva-dustanam  stambhana-kara  •  hum  trum  sarva-yaksa-raksasa- 

grahanam  vi- 

Amoghavajra's  Chinese  transcript,  with  its  romanization  as  supplied  by 
Dr.  Watanabe,  is  given  below.  Dr.  Watanabe  explains  that  the  hyphen  which 
combines  two  ideograms  represents  the  words  Zl.  -^t  or  '  two  together ',  in  the 
edition,  indicating  a  Sanskrit  conj  anct  consonant ;  and  the  asterisk  placed  on 
the  right  of  an  ideogram  represents  the  original  word  ^|,  indicating  a  long 
vowel.  The  romanization  represents  the  Japanese  pronunciation,  which  is  closer  to 
the  Sanskrit  sound  than  the  Chinese. 

bi     sha    ra    sha    sen     ta    bei   dei    ka    pu  ni(ji)     ta      so    mya    ro     pa    ma    ka 

t^-m sp N"* m-M 5^* m* mm  ^  m* m mmm  b- 

shi     bei      ta        a        ri      ya      ta       ra       ma    ka   ma(ba)     ra        a      pa      ra      ba      ji 

mMmm  m  mmB-mmm  m  m  i  it  m  m  B~m  m- 

ra    she    ka    ra     sei     ba    ba     ji       ra    ko     ma    ri     ku   ran    da      ri    ba     ji       ra    ka 
sa      ta    sha   ma  ka      bi      ni       ya      ta     ta    ken  sha    na    ma     ri      ka     ku     so        on 

ba     ra    ta    na     sei   ba   bei    ro      sha  na    ku    na     ri     to    shi    ni    ska    bi   jya  rin    ba 

^  For  vijrmbhamana.  The  syllable  na  had  been  inadvertently  duplicated,  and  is 
cancelled  by  a  circle  of  dots  around  it.  Two  similar  cancellations  occur  in  the  Sanskrit 
Vajracchedika  MS.,  fol.  2a™  and  fol.  7 a^,  and  have  been  noticed  by  Mr.  Pargiter,  in  his 
footnotes,  pp.  179,  182.  '  Head  laucana  (for  locand). 

'  After  vajrra  there  is  a  vacant  space  showing  marks  of  the  obliteration  of  two  aksaras. 
Probably  they  were  false  aksaras  which  the  scribe  deleted,  but  for  which  he  forgot  to  sub- 
stitute the  correct  ones.  As  the  parallel  texts  show,  only  one  is  wanted,  the  required  word 
being  vajrra-tundl.     C'f.  p.  29,  footnote  3.  '  Apparently  for  miidra. 


THE   MAHAPRATYANGIEA  DHARANl  5S 

ma      na      sha    ba     ji       ra     ka     na     ka     pa      ra     ba    ro       sha    na     ba     ji        ra    ton 

ni(ji)  sha   shi    bei     ta      sha    ka    ma    ra       ki      sha   sha    se     pa     ra     ba 

TRANSLATION. 
Fol.  6  a,  1.  1  :  [large-ei/ec]^  and  placid,  worshipped  by  foreigners  (or  people  of 
Videha),"  of  benign  aspect,  of  great  whiteness  (is)  noble  Tara,^!  (1.  2)  very  mighty, 
unrivalled,  and  verily  (girdled)  with  a  chain  of  thunderbolts,  the  thunderbolt  maid,  the 
family-prop  (?),  (1.  3)  with  thunderbolt  in  hand,  magic  (personified),  with  a  golden 
garland,  with  the  jewel  of  safflower,  (1.  4)  with  the  diadem  of  Vairochana's  race,i^ 
with  knitted  brows,i^  of  the  golden  hue  of  the  thunderbolt,  with  (oljservant)  eyes,  with 
thunderbolt  at  the  navel,"  and  white,  lotus-eyed,  and  of  the  moon's  brightness.  These 
are  her  many  mystic  marks  ;  may  they  all  give  protection  to  me,  Kumara-bhadra !  ^® 
Hail  to  the  lauded  of  all  the  Rishis,  the  crown  of  the  Tathagatha  !  Hum  trum, 
crusher  ;  hum  trum,  paralyser  ;  huih  truriij  devourer  of  the  enemy's  magic,  demolisher 
of  all  the  YakshaSj  Rakshasas,  and  (evil)  planets. 

^°  The  epithet  vaideia-{oY  vaideha-)2)ujitd  has  a  very  strange  look.  According  to  Col. 
Waddell  (see  footnote  1,  p.  53)  the  Tibetan  version  has  Iha  mams  Jcyis  mchod-ma,  adored  by 
all  the  gods.  This  points  to  a  different  original,  perhaps  vihadeva,  or  vaiivadeva.  Note, 
in  this  connexion,  the  Nepalese  reading  vaideva. 

"  On  Tara,  see  Col.  Waddell's  article  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for 
1894,  pp.  51  ff.,  and  his  Lamaism,  pp.  358  ff'. ;  also  Professor  Griinwedel's  ilythologie  des 
Buddhismus,  pp.  142  £f.,  and  especially  M.  Foucher's  L'Iconographie  Bouddhique,  pp.  63  ff., 
80  ff.,  86  ff.,  101  ff'.:   also  M.  Blonay's  Mat^riaux  pour  servir  a  I'histoire  de  la  deesse  Tara. 

^*  The  reading  kurydraumlsa  or  kurydrthdiismsa  (cf.  rupd,  obv.  ].  1)  is  puzzling. 
The  Chinese  transcript  kunaritoshinisha  is  equally  puzzling.  The  Eastern  Turkestani 
vajraumisa  seems  to  point  to  an  altogether  different  reading,  but  the  Nepalese  reading 
kulosn'isa  suggests  that  kurya  might  be  intended  for  kulya. 

'^    Vijrmbhamdna,  syn.  bhrkuft  idrd,  a  well-known  name  of  the  goddess. 

■'*'  Vajratundl  is  an  epithet  not  found  elsewhere.  It  can  hardly  mean  '  with  a  thunder- 
bolt beak  '.  That  would  be  a  strange  epithet  of  Tara.  It  is  a  well-known  epithet  of  the 
mythic  bird  Garuda.  But  tunda  has  also  the  occult  meaning  '  navel '  (of.  tunda),  and 
Col.  Waddell,  referring  to  M.  Senart's  Legend  of  Buddha,  pp.  33,  35,  suggests  that 
Vishnu's  epithet  ralna-ndbha  points  to  vajra-ndhha.  In  the  Tibetan  Kagyur  there  is  a 
Vajratunda  Dharani,  a  charm  intended  to  protect  the  harvest-fields  against  the  rain-causing 
Nagas,  or  mythic  serpents.  This  Dharani,  as  Col.  Waddell  states,  nevertheless  does  not 
mention  Garuda,  but  is  associated  with  a  brahman,  called  Vishnu,  and  with  Vajrapani, 
who,  according  to  Prof.  Griinwedel's  Mythology  of  Buddhism,  p.  160,  is  in  the  main 
a  weather-god  and  protector  of  the  Nagas.  Hence  it  seems  probable  that  vajratunda  in 
the  title  of  the  Dharani  does  not  allude  to  Garuda,  but  is  really  a  synonym  of  vajrandbha. 
And  vajratundl,  meaning  vajrandbhikd,  would  thus  be  explained  in  its  application  to  the 
female  counterpart  Tara.  '  It  would  seem  that  the  Buddhists,  in  adopting  the  Vishnu 
legend,  substituted  tunda  for  ndbha  ;  and  hence  the  ambiguity.' 

^*  Kumdra-bhadra  was  the  name  of  the  writer  of  this  manuscript  of  the  Dharani,  or  of 
the  patron  for  whom  it  was  written.  On  this  practice  of  inserting  the  name  of  the  writer, 
or  the  patron,  see  Dr.  Watanabe's  remarks  in  the  Journal  EAS.  for  1907,  p.  263. 


56 


MISCELLANEOUS   FKAGMENTS 


For  the  purpose  of  comparison,  the  corresponding  portions  of  the  Chinese, 
Eastern  Turkestani,  and  Nepalese  texts  are  given  in  the  subjoined  transcript  in 
parallel   columns.     It   will  be  seen  that  Amoghavajra's  Chinese  and  the  Eastern 


No.  150i 


Fol.  6  a,  1.  1 ^  ca  ^anta 

vaidai^a-pujita  sauma-rupa 
mahaiveta 
arya-t5i-a  mahabala  I 
apara  vajrra-Samkala  calva 
vajrra-kaumari  kulamdharl 
vajrra-hasta  ca  vidya 
kamcana-malika  •  kusumbha- 
ratima  Vairaucana- 

kuryarausnlsa  vajrrembhama- 
na  oa 

vajrra-kanaka-prrabha 


lauvana  vajrra-tundl  ca 
sveta  ca  kamalaksa 

sasi-prablia 
Ity  ete  mundra-gana 

sarve  raksam  kurvaiiiti 
mama  Kumara-bhadrrasya  II 


Om  risi-gana-prra^astas 

tathagat-osnisa 

hum  truiii  jambbana 

hum  trum  stambbana 

bum  trum  para-vidya-sambbaksana- 
kara  bum  trum  sarva-dustanam 
stambbana-kara  I 

hum  trum  sarva-yaksa-raksasa- 
grabanam  vi- 


Amogbavajra's  Transcript. 


[bisbara]  sba  senta 

beideika-pujita  somya-ropa 
makasbibeita 
ax'iya-tara  makabara 
apara  bajira-sbakara  seiba 
bajira-komari  kurandari 
bajira-kasata  sba  makabiniya  tata 
kensbana-marika  kusoonba- 
ratana  seiba  Beirosbana- 

kunaritosbinisba  bijyarinbam Ti- 
na sba 

bajira-kanaka-paraba 


rosbana  bajira-toiiji  sba 
sbibeita  sba  kamarakisba 

sbase-paraba 
(the  remainder  not  supplied) 


Eastern  Turkestani  KoU  Cb.  0041. 


line  36,  [vai^ala]  ca  ^anta 
vaidaba-pujanta  samya-rupa 
mahataija 

arya-ntarya  mababala 
aparajanta  vajrra-^akala  caiva 
vajrra-kumarl  kuladbarani 
vajrra-basta  ca  vaidyai  (1.  38) 
kacanau-malika  kusuma- 
rahua  vavi  caiva  Vairacana- 
vajrrausnisa  kirtta  ca  vajrrabama- 
na  la  ca 

vajrra-kanaka-prraba 


lacana  vajrra-ntundl  ca 
sainta  ca  kamalaksa 

sase-prraba 
Inty  attai  mudra-gunS 

sarve  raksa  kurventu  II 


Ama  rasa-grana-prra^astayas 
tatbagatausnisa  II  Saidbantapattai 
bu  dru  jabana-kara 

hu  dru  stabana-kara  I 

bu  dru  mohaua-kara 
bu  dru  mahavaidya-sabaksaiia- 
kara  bu  dru  astavl^atta-naksadra- 
na  prasadbana-karl  hu  dru  cattura 
Patina  naksadrana  prasadhana-karl 
hu  dru  cattura-^antana 
grabana  vai[dbvasana-karl] 


THE   MAHAPEATYANGIRA  DHARANI 


57 


Turkestani  texts  are  practically  identical  with  the  text  of  our  fragment^  while  the 
Nepalese  text  shows  considerable  diflPerences  and  expansions. 


Eastern  Turkestani  Gigantic  Eoll. 


line  46,  [vi^ala]  ca  ^anta 
vaideha-ptijita  I  sauma-rupa 
mahateja 

arya-tara-mahabala 
apara  vajrra-^ariikala  ceva 
vajrra-kaumarl  kulamdharlm 
vajrra-hasta  ca  vidya 
kamcina-malika  kusumbha- 
ratna  vartti  caiva  Veraucana- 
vajrrausnisam  kirtta  ca  vajrrama- 
na  ca 

vajrra-kanaka-prabha 


locana  I  vajrra-hundi  ca 
^veta  ca  kamalaksa 

^a^i-prabha 
Ity  eta  mudra-gana 

sarve  raksam  kurvamtu  II 


Om  risa-gana-pra^astaya 
tathagatausnisam  Sittamtapatre 
hum  trum  jabhana-kara 

hum  trum  staiibhana-kara 

hum  trum  mauhana-karam 
hum  trum  I  mahavidya-sambhaksana- 
kara  hum  trum  I  sarva-dustanam 
stambhana-kara 

hum  truifa  I  sarva-yaksa-raksasa- 
grahanam  vi[dhvamsana-kara] 


Nepalese.    RAS.,  No.  77. 


fol.  4  a,  1.  4,  [vi^alajksi  I  ^anta 

vaideva-pujita  I  somya-rupa 

maha^veta  jvala  pam^ula-vasinl  II 

arya-tara  mahabala  I 

a  mala  vajra-^rmkha[4  6]ra^  caiva 

kaumari  vajra-kulamgana 

vajra-hasta  mahavidya  I 

karhcana-malika  kusuma- 

prabha  II  vatta  Vairocana  caiva 

Tathagata-kulosnisfdi  II  visruta  ca 

vikrtika  I  vajraka-suprabha  II 

locana  vajra-tundl  ca  I 

^veta  ca  kanaka-prahha  I  ^ri-buddha- 

rocanl  mata  1  tatha  vajra-dhara  ni  ca  I 

vajra-milla  mahaya  I  devi  ca  kaka-prabha  II 

su-rocana  ca 

^veta  ca  I  devinam  kamalaksana  I  vinlta 

^anta-citta  ca  I  atma-guna  sasi-prabha  II 

Ity  eta  maha-mudra-ganah  sarva- 

matr-ganas  ca  sarva-raksam  kurvantu  1 

mama  sarvva-satvanan  ca  II  te  ca  (5  a) 

saiTva-buddha-hodhisatva  maharddhikah 

nama  istarthah  sa  pradayantu  I  sarvartha- 

siddhin  ca  dadantu  II  o  II 

Om  rsi-gana-pra^astebhyah  sarvYa- 

tathagatosnlsa-Sitatapatre 

hum  hrain  hrlm  hram  jambhani  II 

hum  hram  hriirt  hram  stambhani 

hum  hram  hrlm  hiam  mohana-karl  II 

hum  hram  &c.  para-vidya-saihbhaksana- 

karl  II  hum  hram  &c.  sarva-dusta- 

stariibhaua-kari  II  hum  hram  hrlm 

hram  sarvva-vidya-cchedana-kari  1 1 

hum  hram  &c.  sarva-yaksa-raksasa- 

grahanam  vi[dhvamsana-kari  ll] 


58  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

12.  SATAPANCASATIKA  STOTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  149j^  ;  Stein  MSS.,  Ch.  vii.  001  B^-^,  Khora  005 1. 

These  five  folios  contain  portions  of  the  same  workj  the  Satapancasatika 
Stotra,  or  hymn  of  one  hundred  verses,  which  is  ascribed  to  Miltrieheta.  The  fact 
that  they  were  found  in  three  different  localities  (Jigdalik-Bai,  Tun  Huang,  and 
Khora),  as  well  as  the  fact  that  the  folios  are  of  different  sizes,  show  that  they  belonged 
to  three  different  pothis.  The  latter  fact,  again,  is  suggestive  of  the  popularity 
of  Matricheta's  hymns  in  the  Buddhist  settlements  in  Eastern  Turkestan  (see 
also  below,  pp.  60,  n). 

The  earliest  notice  of  the  Satapafieasatika  hymn,  and  of  its  author,  occurs  in  the 
Chinese  pilgrim  I-tsing's  '  Record  of  the  Buddhist  Religion  '  (Takakusu's  translation, 
p.  157).     There  I-tsing  says  that  Matricheta  '  composed  first  a  hymn  consisting  of 

four  hundred  slokas,  and  afterwards  another  of  one  hundred  and  fifty These 

charming  compositions  are  equal  in  beauty  to  the  heavenly  flowers,  and  the  high 
principles  which  they  contain  rival  in  dignity  the  lofty  peaks  of  a  mountain.  Con- 
sequently in  India  all  who  compose  hymns  imitate  his  style,  considering  him  the 
father  of  literature.  Even  men  like  the  Bodhisattvas  Asanga  and  Vasubandhu 
admired  him  greatly.  Throughout  India  every  one  who  becomes  a  monk  is  taught 
Matricheta's  t'\\o  hymns  as  soon  as  he  can  recite  the  five  and  ten  precepts.     This 

course  is  adopted  by  both  the  Mahayana  and  Hinayana  Schools After  one 

is  able  to  recite  them,  one  proceeds  to  learn  other  Sutras There  are  many  who 

have  written  commentaries  on  them,  nor  are  the  imitations  of  them  few 

All  those  who  compose  religious  poems  take  these  for  their  pattern.'  In  relating 
his  experiences  in  the  Indian  monastery  of  Nalanda,  where  he  spent  ten  years 
(a.d.  675-685  ;  'iVid.,  p.  xxxiii),  I-tsing  tells  us  (ih'ul.,  p.  156)  how  '  delightful  it  is  to 
hear  a  skilful  person  recite  the  "  Hymn  in  one  hundred  and  fifty  verses  ",  '•  that  in 
four  hundred  verses  ",  or  any  other  song  of  praise  at  night,  when  the  assembled  priests 
remain  very  quiet  on  a  fasting  night.'  '  In  India ',  he  adds,  '  numerous  hymns  of 
praise  to  be  sung  at  worship  have  been  most  carefully  handed  down  ;  for  every 
talented  man  of  letters  has  praised  in  verse  whatever  person  he  deemed  most  worthy 
of  worship.  Such  a  man  was  the  venerable  Matricheta,  who,  by  his  great  literary  talent 
and  virtues,  excelled  all  learned  men  of  his  age.'  During  that  stay  in  Nalanda,  I-tsing 
translated  the  celebrated  '  Hymn  of  150  verses '  into  Chinese,  and  transmitted  his  trans- 
lation to  his  friends  in  China  (iJzV/.,  p.  166;  alsop.  156,  n.  3,  p.l58,  n.  1).  It  is  included, 
as  No.  1456,  in  Nanjio's  '  Catalogue  of  Chinese  Translations  of  the  Buddhist  Tripitaka ', 
where  (col.  321)  it  is  stated  that  I-tsing  revised  his  translation  in  a.d.  708.  The  next 
notice  we  have  of  Matricheta  and  his  hymn  is  found  in  the  Tibetan  Taranatha's 


^ATAPANCASATIKA  STOTRA  59 

(a.d.  1573-1608) '  History  of  Buddhism  '  (transl.  by  Schiefner),  chap,  xviii,  pp.  88-93. 
Taranatha  agrees  with  I-tsing  in  the  latter's  high  estimate  of  the  excellence  and 
popularity  of  Matricheta's  religious  poems.  He  says  {ihicl,  p.  91)  that  Matricheta's 
hymns  in  honour  of  the  Buddha,  of  which  '  he  composed  a  hundred ',  are  '  known  in 
all  lands '  ;  and  he  adds  that  '  the  most  excellent  among  them  is  the  hymn  which 
comprises  150  slokas'. 

Tibetan  tradition,  however,  is  not  altogether  consistent  with  respect  to  the 
authorship  of  the  Satapancasatika  Stotra.  In  the  colophon  to  the  Tibetan  translation, 
the  composition  of  that  hymn  is  ascribed  to  Asvaghosa  (Ind.  Ant.,  vol.  xxxii,  p.  349, 
Journal  RAS.,  1911,  p.  763),  while  in  the  colophon  to  the  translation  of  the 
Misraka  Stotra,  or  '  Mixed  Hymn  ',  which  is  made  up  of  the  '  Hymn  of  150  verses ' 
phis  250  verses  added  by  Dignaga,  the  former  hymn  is  ascribed  to  Matricheta  (Ind. 
Ant.,  vol.  xxxii,  pp.  347,  349).  The  discrepancy  can  be  harmonized  only  by  the 
hypothesis  of  the  identity  of  Matricheta  with  Asvaghosa.  This  hypothesis  is  dis- 
cussed for  and  against  by  Prof.  Sylvain  Levi  (JA.,  S&-ie  IX,  vol.  viii,  pp.  444  ff.,  vol.  ix, 
pp.  1  fF.),  Dr.  Thomas  (Ind.  Ant.,  vol.  xxxii,  pp.  345  fF.),  and  Prof.  Winternitz  (V.  O.  J., 
vol.xxvii,pp.  43  ff.).  Taranatha  supports  the  identity  in  a  passage  in  which  he  mentions 
also  five  other  identities  {loc.  cit.,  p.  90).  That  mention,  however,  is  quite  incidental, 
having  no  essential  connexion  with  the  story  in  which  it  occurs.  As  to  the  Chinese 
tradition,  it  rather  discountenances  the  identity.  In  Nanjio's  Catalogue  of  Chinese 
translations  the  two  authors  are  kept  quite  apart ;  and  this  attitude  is  obviously 
supported  by  I-tsing's  treatment  of  them.  In  the  xxxiind  chapter  of  his  '  Record ', 
he  explains  the  '  Ceremony  of  Chanting  '  hymns ;  and  in  connexion  therewith  he 
proceeds  to  speak  of  the  three  most  eminent  hymn- writers  in  the  following  order : 
Matricheta  (pp.  156-8),  Nagarjuua  (pp.  158-64),  and  Asvaghosa  (pp.  165-6). 
Whatever  the  intention  of  the  order  may  have  been,  chronological  or  merely  with 
reference  to  literary  excellence,  one  thing  is  certain,  that  for  I-tsing  Matricheta 
and  Asvaghosa  cannot  have  been  the  same  person. 

If  the  identity  could  be  accepted,  it  would  supply  some  indication  of  the  date  of 
Matricheta.  For  Asvaghosa  is  generally  accepted,  on  the  authority  of  Chinese 
tradition  (see  Watters's  'Yuan  Chwang',  vol.  i,  ]).  278,  ef  passim),  to  have  been 
a  contemporary  of  King  Kanishka,  and  that  king  may  be  placed  in  the  first 
century  B.C.  as  the  'founder'  of  the  Vikrama  Era.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
Taranatha,  in  this  particular,  may  be  trusted,  Matricheta  was  a  contemporary 
of  Chandraguj^ta's  son,  King  Bindusara  (297-273  B.C.),  and  of  his  minister 
Chanakya  ijoc.  cit.,  p.  88).  This  tradition  would  place  him  in  the  third  cen- 
tury B.C.  The  only  certain  dates  are  supplied  by  the  co-operation  of  Dignaga, 
in  the  sixth  centurj'  a.d.,  in  the  production  of  the  above-mentioned  Misraka 
Stotra ;    and    by    the    translation    of  the    Satajjancasatika    Stotra   by    I-tsing    in 


60  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

A.  D.  675-685.  It  seems  probable,  however,  tbat  Matricheta  really  lived  earlier 
by  many  centuries. 

For  centuries  after  its  composition  the  hymn  was  held  in  very  high  esteem,  and 
was  veiy  popular  in  Buddhist  India.  As  we  have  seen,  I-tsing  speaks  of  '  many  com- 
mentators '  and  '  imitators '.  Among  the  latter  he  may  have  reckoned  Dignaga's 
additions  in  the  Misraka  Stotra.  These  additions  are  noticed  also  by  Taranatha 
{loc.  cil.,  p.  141),  who  mentions  also  a  commentary  by  Nandapriya,  who  is  said 
to  have  lived  after  Dignaga  {ib.,  p.  102).  According  to  the  same  authority  {ih.,  p.  152) 
the  hymn  was  known  to  Chandragomin  in  the  sixth  century  a.d,  (Journal  RAS.,  1909, 
pp.  142  f.).  It  is  certain,  therefore,  that  the  Sanskrit  text  of  the  Satapancasatika 
Stotra  was  well  known  in  India  down  to  the  seventh  century  a.d.  Since  then,  no 
doubt,  along  with  the  decline  of  Buddhism,  it  has  utterly  disappeared  in  that  country ; 
and  its  rediscovery  in  Eastern  Turkestan  is,  therefore,  of  the  greatest  interest.  Even 
though,  for  the  present,  we  have  only  fragments  of  the  hymn,  they  may  suffice  to 
give  us  an  idea  of  its  anciently  so  highly  rated  excellence. 

The  portions  of  the  Satapaiicasatika  Stotra,  preserved  in  the  present  five 
fragments,  are  the  following  four  :  — 

(1)  Verses  23-38,  in  the  Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^^- 

(2)  „       48-74,  in  the  Stein  MSS.,  Ch.  vii,  001  B^-^. 

(3)  „       117-131,  in  the  Stein  MS.,  Ch.  vii,  001  B^. 

(4)  „       146-150,  in  the  Stein  ]MS.,  Khora  005  5. 

The  last  fragment  illustrates  an  interesting  point.  There  were  in  use  two 
different  modes  of  counting  the  verses  of  the  hymn.  According  to  one  mode,  they 
were  numbered  consecutively  through  the  whole  hymn.  This  mode,  which  is  seen 
in  the  Hoernle  MS.  from  Jigdalik  and  in  the  Stein  MSS.  from  Tun  Huang,  appears 
to  have  been  the  more  prevalent  one  in  Eastern  Turkestan.  According  to  the  other 
mode,  the  hymn  was  divided  into  thirteen  sections,  and  the  verses  were  numbered 
separately  in  each  section.  This  mode  is  followed  in  the  Tibetan  translation  of  the 
hymn ;  and  it  obtains  also  in  the  Khora  fragment,  in  which  the  concluding  verses  of 
the  hymn,  146-150,  are  numbered  10-14.  In  the  Khora  pothi  of  the  hymn,  there- 
fore, the  thirteenth,  or  last,  section  must  have  commenced  with  the  137th  verse. 

No.  1.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^  (Plate  IV,  No.  2,  Obverse). 

This  fragment,  at  its  extreme  point,  measures  290  x  78  mm.  (or  11|  x  3  inches). 
It  bears,  on  either  side,  six  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta  characters.  On  the 
right  about  one  quarter  of  its  length  is  broken  away.  As  the  text  is  made  up 
of  sloka  verses,  of  sixteen  syllables  each,  the  number  of  missing  syllables  can  be 
readily  calculated.    It  is  about  twelve  ;  and  the  full  number  of  syllables  on  the  com- 


SATAPANCA^ATIKA  STOTEA  61 

plete  line  would  have  been  from  48  to  50.  There  are,  however,  also  minor  defects  on 
the  left  side  entailing  the  loss  of  the  folio-number,  and  along  the  lower  edge  of  the 
fragment.  The  missing  portions  of  the  text  are  conjecturaUy  supplied,  in  smaller 
italic  type,  almost  entirely  from  the  suggestions  kindly  supplied  by  Dr.  Thomas,  on 
the  basis  of  his  reading  of  the  Tibetan  version  in  the  Tanjur.  Including  these  comple- 
ments the  text,  which  comprises  verses  23-38  of  the  hymn,  runs  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  ^dhate  M^a«|va  D#anugrhnati  tat  sukham^  pranitam  api  sad-vrtta  yad 

asadharanaiii    parai^   23  Vimisrat  sara('))i  e)l^\-^dpi  nirdosam  7nanasf 
dhrtarriy  ksane 

2  [s-zJ]ktam   [c?]ur-uktam   tu   visavat    parivarjitamx   24   K?-inata   ratna- 

sarajnah  ^  pranair  api  su-bhasitam^  para||/:ra?«?/a^a  bodhy-arthaih  tdsu 
tdsu  hi  jaii- 

3  su    25    Iti    tribhir    asamkhyeyair    evam    ud}"arnata''    tvaya  •  vyava- 

saya-dvitiyena  ^  praptam  pa((i«)  'Jj/t  anuttaran\  26  Anlrsyitva  prakr- 

4  stesu  hinan    anavamatya  ca  •  agatva   sadr^ai  ^  spardham    tvam    loke 

srestliatarti  gata  ^  27   Hetu.s(i()|  samabhivyaktir  gunanum  na  phale- 

5  su  te  •  tena  samyak-pratipada  tvayi  nisthaiii  ga(<a)  guna  ^   28  Tath* 

atma^^pr«^ramfl  Jm  [n]itas  tvaya  su-caritair  y&Jhd  •  utpddakanipunyu- 
nam  eva  pd- 

6  da-raj  amsi  te  29  Karsayitvi:6dl]r[<ft]  ^  f?osa  ['ya]r[cZA«7/i]tva  visodhita "  - 

guflwa  bhadraman^o  'nena  ''  paraiil  siddhimy^ya;?*  dgatah  30  Tathd  sarva- 
prakdrena 


^  The  whole  passage  would  conjecturaUy  run  tvat-same  bddhaie  n=aiva. 

^  Read  2'<^'>'^ih,  sadriaih,  gatah,  gundh,  vUodhitdh,  dmbhasah.  In  this  fragment  the 
visarga  is  invariably  omitted,  except  in  v.  25,  sdrajiiah,  where  it  is  wrong. 

^  Read  sdrajna,  vocative,  for  sdrajnah,  nominative. 

*  Or  udyarchatd  ■  but  read  udyacchatd ;  the  letters  n  and  ch,  are  very  similar.  See 
Note  on  p.  20,  and  footnote  5  on  p.  29. 

'  Eead  dviUyena,  and  rev.  1.  6  malinatvam.  ^  Kead  °6ddhrtd. 

'  The  reading  is  conjectural.  The  original  has  tena  with  a  trace  of  a  preceding  long 
vowel,  a  01  I  or  o.  The  Tibetan  version,  examined  by  Dr.  Thomas,  indicates  for  the  lacuna 
a  word  in  the  vocative  case  (O  good-principled-one) ;  but  the  only  possible  Sanskrit 
vocative  is  one  ending  in  o,  by  sandhi  for  as,  and  such  a  sandlii  necessitates  the  correction 
of  tena  into  nena  (for  an&iia).     Even  so,  the  result  is  not  quite  satisfactory. 


62  MISCELLANEOUS   FKAGMENTS 

Eeverse. 

1  dosesu  prahrtam  tvaya  •  y&th.<>&i\_sam   a']tma,-s&mf^:idne    f  Jasan«£ipi  na 

sesip/ra  31   Tathd  samf^hhrtya,  sambhrtya  tvat/||a  hy  dtmani  samcitd  • 
gundh  sddrsyam  a- 

2  py  esarii  yatlia  n#anyatra   drsyate  32    Upaghat-avaranavaiii  ^  roita- 

kalaiii  [jj]r|aMasa?;a/^  s!|ulabh-4ti^ayam  sarva(m)^J  upamd-vastu  lauki- 
kam^  33  Advaih- 

3  dvmam  agamyanam  dhruvanam  anivartinam^  anuttaranam  ka  tarM 

gunaiiinam  ^  upa(ma)|  hhavet^  34  Masi-malam  iv^^dttdnafh 

4  gambhiryam   lavan-aiiibhasa  "  •  yada    te    buddhi-gambhiryam   agadli- 

4param  iksyate    35  Sirisa-paksa-|  iniksepe  prthivi-sthiratd  bhavet\ 

5  (a)kampe    sarva-dharmanaiii   tvat-sthairye   'bhimukhikrte  36  Ajnana- 

timira-ghnasya    jiian-41okasya    te    mu||ree  •  pratispai'dUtum    dkdnksi 
surya  eva 

6  na  sidhya^iti)    37  Malinatvam  °    ev«4yanti   sarac-candr-4mbar-4mbha- 

samx    na    ca    vag-b[M]d((iA)i-dehanam    sudcZ^iiii    pra|^r<a?/as    tathd 
38  [xxxx  ^] 

NOTE. 

With  regard  to  the  marks  of  interpunction,  generally  used  in  texts  written  in 
Slanting  Gupta,  it  may  be  noted  that  the  place  of  the  modern  Indian  bar  is  taken 
by  a  dot,  which  may  or  may  not  have  a  sort  of  tail  added  to  its  top,  though  this 
distinction  is  not  always  very  noticeable.  The  dot  with  a  tail  resembles  a  prone 
comma,  and  in  the  transcripts  it  is  represented  as  such.  As  a  rule,  the  single  dot, 
or  prone  comma,  is  used  to  indicate  the  end  of  a  half-verse  (in  poetry)^  or  a  half-clause 
(in  prose,  as  in  the  Pravarana  Sutra,  obv.  I.  1,  p.  38,  and  in  the  Suka  Sutra,  pp. 
48—51),  while  the  double  dot  (corresponding  to  the  modern  double  bar)  indicates  the 
end  of  a  full  verse  or  a  full  clause.  In  the  double  dot,  the  two  dots  are  arranged 
vertically  (as  in  the  symbol  of  the  visarga),  and  cursively  run  together,  so  as  to  make 
up  a  bar  of  dots,  or  even  an  actual  bar  (as  in  the  Catuhsataka  Stotra,  p.  77)}''  In 
the  transcripts  it  is  represented  by  two  dots,  or  two  prone  commas,  or  a  bar,  as  the 
case  may  be.  Both  signs — single  dot  (prone  comma)  and  double  dot  (bar) — are 
regularly  omitted,  if  they  would  come  to  stand  after  a  visarga  or  after  a  virama.^^ 
A  few  very  rare  exceptions  do  occur ;  e.g.  in  the  Vinaya  Text,  No.  149^,  rev.  1.  2 

'  Eead  °dvaranavan.  °  Read  gundndm. 

"  The  same  kind  of  cursive  double  dot,  or  bar,  is  also  used  to  indicate  the  visarga,  of 
which  a  vertical  double  dot  is  the  well-known  technical  mark.  See  Pravarana  Sutra,  rev. 
1.  2  (parivaritah,  p.  38),  and  PI.  II,  1\ 

"  The  virama  itself  has  the  shape  of  a  prone  comma,  on  which  see  footnote  1  on  p.  5. 


^ATAPANCASATIKA  STOTEA  68 

(p.  13),  we  have  a  prone  comma  written  immediately  after  the  visarga  oi  say'iujitili ; 
similarly  in  the  fragments,  Khora,  005  I,  obv.  1.  3  (p.  74),  and  Khora,  005  a,  obV. 
1.  4  and  rev.  1.  5  (p.  78),  the  double  dot  and  the  bar  respectively  occur  after 
a  virama  :  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  present  fragment,  the  visarga  is  omitted,  instead 
of  the  dot,  in  verses  30  and  35,  and  so  also  in  the  Catnhsataka  Stotra  (p.  81),  obv. 
1.  5,  in  the  37th  verse.  The  use  of  the  single  dot  (or  prone  comma),  is  practically 
invariable,  though  there  occur  very  rare  exceptions,  as  in  the  Khora  fragment  (p.  74), 
obv.  1.  2,  where  it  is  omitted  after  tvayd  at  the  end  of  the  half-verse  11.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  use  of  the  double  dot  is  not  obligatoiy,  probablj^  because  the  end  of 
a  full  verse  is  sufficiently  indicated  by  its  number.  Thus  in  the  present  fragment, 
and  in  the  fragments  of  the  Catuhsataka  Stotra  (p.  83)  and  of  the  Fravarana 
Sutra  (pp.  38—9)  it  is  invariably  omitted.  In  the  fragments,  Ch.  vii,  001  B  ^-^ 
where  it  does  occur  as  a  rule,  it  nevertheless  is  omitted  at  the  end  of  verses  63,  66, 
and  119  (pp.  67,  71).  Anomalously,  and  exceptionally,  the  double  dot  appears  to  be 
used  for  the  purpose  of  marking  the  junction  of  two  words  in  a  compound  ;  see  the 
examples  noted  in  the  Pravarana  and  Suka  Sutras  (Note  2,  p.  51),  also  the  example 
on  p.  104,  footnote  4.  On  another  somewhat  peculiar  system  of  interpunction  in  the 
Khora  fragment  005  a,  see  below  (p.  79,  Note  2). 

It  may  be  added  that  a  large-sized  double  bar  is  used,  singly  or  in  duplicate, 
to  mark  the  end  of  a  section,  as  in  the  Pravarana  Sutra,  obv.  1.  2  (p.  38),  or  of  a 
chapter,  as  in  the  Catuhsataka  Stotra,  rev.  1.  3  (p.  81),  or  of  a  text,  as  in  obv.  11.  1  and 
2  (pp.  77-8),  and  rev.  11.  3  and  5  (p.  83),  and  in  the  Pravarana  Sutr%  rev.  1.  5 
(p.  39). 

On  the  system  of  interpunction  in  texts  written  in  Upright  Gupta,  see  foot- 
note 1,  p.  5,  and  footnote  1,  p.  93. 

TRANSLATION.!- 

[Obverse.]  Verse  23.  To  one  like  thee,  oh  well-conducted  one,  though  it  be 
given,  a  good  which  is  not  shared  by  others,  is  not  indeed  harmful,  (but)  neither  is  it 
helpful. 

Verse  24.  From  the  mingled,  only  the  faultless  essence  was  taken  into  the  mind  at  once, 
the  well-said  :  but  the  ill-said,  like  poison,  was  avoided. 

Verse  25.  By  thee,  oh  knower  of  thje  worth  of  jewels,  purchasing  with  life 
what  was  well  said,  heroism  was  shown  for  the  sake  ofbodhi  in  a  variety  of  births. 

Verse  26.  So,  by  thee,  through  three  incalculable  periods  exerting  thj'self, 
seconded  by  thy  resolation,  the  highest  dignity  was  attained. 

Verse  27.  Not  envying  the  high,  nor  disdaining  the  low,  nor  going  into  comjjeti- 
tion  with  equals,  thoii  attainedst  pre-eminence  in  the  world. 

Verse  28.  Thy  distinction  was  icith  regard  to  causes,  not  to  effects  :  hence  by  thy 
complete  success  the  virtues  reached  in  thee  their  highest  point. 

'^  This  is  based  substantially  on  a  translation,  kindly  furnished  by  Dr.  Thomas,  of  the 
Tibetan  version  of  the  hymn  in  the  Tanjur.  Those  portions  of  the  translation,  which  are 
not  represented  in  the  Sanskrit  text,  aie  printed  in  small  italic  type. 


64  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

Verse  29.  In  such  a  way  was  progress  of  self  attained  by  thee  through  good 
works,  that  the  very  dust  of  thy  feet  caused  religious  merit  to  arise. 

Verse  30.  Evils  were  pulled  up  and  removed,  virtues  were  increased  and  purified : 
thereby,  oh  good-minded  one,  thou  hast  attained  the  highest  success. 

Verse  31.  So  much,  in  every  way,  at  vices  a  blow  was  struck  by  thee,  that  not 
even  a  propensity  to  them  was  left  in  thy  own  race. 

Verse  32.  So  much,  by  thee  collecting,  collecting,  virtues  were  gathered  in  thyself, 
that  even  the  lil-e  of  them  is  not  seen  elsewhere. 

Verse  33.  Every  comparable  thing  in  the  world,  being  full  of  injury  and  ob- 
struction, temporary  and  perishaUe,  is  easy  to  surpass. 

Verse  34.  What  pattern,  then,  can  be  found  of  thy  virtues,  unequalled,  unapproach- 
able, immovable,  irresistible,  unrivalled  ? 

Verse  35.  When  the  depth  of  thy  wisdom,  unfathomable,  unbounded,  is  con- 
sidered, the  depth  of  the  salt  sea  appears  as  shalloio  as  an  inkblot. 

Verse  36.  When  thy  firmness,  unshakable,  is  set  against  that  of  all  the 
(natziral)  laws,  even  the  firmness  of  the  earth  has  to  take  its  place  by  the  side  of  the 
Sirisha  tree.-^^ 

Verse  37.  Desirous  of  rivalling  thee,  oh  Muni,  who  destroyest  the  darkness  of 
ignorance  and  hast  the  light  of  knowledge,  even  the  sun  does  not  succeed. 

Verse  38.  And  even  the  natural  conditions  oi  the  celestial  waters  surrounding 
the  autumnal  moon  fall  into  dirtiness,  and  those  of  the  body,  intelligence,  and  voice 
(of  men)  do  not  (attain)  purity. 

No.  2.    Stein  MSS.,  Ch.  VII,  001  B^'  2. 

These  are  two  nearly  complete  folios  of  the  same  pothi,  on  hard  brittle  paper, 
inscribed  on  either  side  with  six  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta  chai-acters.  Ontheir 
right  side  a  small  portion,  about  43  and  55  mm.  (or  If  and  2^  inches)  respectively, 
has  broken  away,  their  extant  length  being  about  328  and  313  mm.  (or  12f  and 
12  inches)  respectively.  Their  breadth  is  complete,  about  88  mm.  (or  3^  inches). 
The  string-hole  is  at  95  mm.  (or  3|-")  from  the  left  edge,  within  a  blank  square  of 
45  mm.  (or  If").  The  folio-numbers  stood  on  the  reverse  side,  facing  the  fourth  line 
of  writing  ;  but  the  traces  of  them,  remaining  on  the  damaged  left  margin,  are  not 
distinctly  legible,  though  they  seem  to  suggest  the  numbers  6  and  7.     From  the  total 

"  This  is  the  Albizzia  LAbek  (Benth.)  or  ^Mimosa  sirissa  (Roxb.),  and  the  reference  is 
to  the  restlessness  of  its  leaves,  which  is  indicated  also  by  its  other  names  hapitana, 
'  monkey-offspring'  (for  the  long  t,  of.  kapi-hacchu,  iMylvat,  &c.),  and  hhandila  or  bhandlla, 
'  small  buffoon '  (dim.  of  hhanda).  Compare  the  similar  implication,  in  the  name  mimosa, 
to  the  movements  of  the  leaves  as  mimicing  sensibility. 


SATAPANCA^ATIKA  STOTRA  65 

number  of  verses  written  on  the  two  fragmentary  folios,  together  with  the  number 
of  the  first  extant  verse,  the  number  of  folios  which  must  have  preceded  the  present 
two  folios  can  readily  be  calculated.  As  the  number  of  verses  on  the  two  fragmentary 
folios  are  14  and  13  respectively,  and  as  the  first  extant  verse  is  the  48th,  it  follows 
that  the  missing  47  verses  would  have  occupied  three  and  one-half  folios  ;  that  is  to 
sayj  three  fully  inscribed  folios,  and  a  fourth,  of  which  only  one  side  was  inscribed. 
This  latter,  of  course,  would  be  the  initial  folio  of  the  pothi,  which  according  to  the 
usual  practice  would  be  inscribed  only  on  its  reverse  side,  the  obverse  being  blank, 
or  bearing  only  the  name  of  the  work,  and  possibly  other  odd  remarks,  as,  e.g. 
in  the  Vajracchedika  MS.,  Ch.  00275  (see  Plate  V,  fol.  1  a).  On  this  basis  the 
present  two  folios  should  bear  the  numbers  5  and  6.  If  the  existing  traces  of 
numbers  6  and  7  can  be  trusted,  the  actual  number  of  missing  folios  must  be  five. 
The  difficulty  is  susceptible  of  a  variety  of  solutions  ;  but  the  most  plausible  appears 
to  be  that,  as  is  not  unfi-equently  the  ease,  one  or  two  of  the  initial  folios  were 
adorned  with  figm-es  of  Buddha,  and  inscribed  only  with  one  or  two  lines  of 
writing  above  and  below  those  figures.  In  the  same  Vajracchedika  manuscript 
(see  Plate  V,  fol.  1 1/)  the  reverse  side  of  the  first  folio  is  adorned  with  a  large 
figure  of  the  sitting  Buddha,  which  takes  up  a  considerable  portion  of  the  inscribable 
space  of  that  side.  Similarly  in  the  old  (c.  a.d.  1095)  Nepalese  palm-leaf  manuscript 
of  the  Astasahasrika  Prajnaparamita,  No.  1428  of  the  Bodleian  Library  Catalogue 
(vol.  ii,  p.  250),  two  folios,  viz.  the  reverse  of  the  first,  and  the  second,  are  ornamented 
with  pictures  of  various  Buddhas.  It  is  thus  quite  possible  to  conceive  how  it 
happened  that  the  48th  verse  could  come  to  be  written  only  on  the  sixth  leaf  of  the 
pothi. 

From  the  fact  that  the  text  is  written  in  sloka  verses,  it  is  easy  to  see  that  from 
four  to  seven  syllables  are  broken  away  at  the  right  side  of  either  folio.  These  are 
conjeeturally  supplied,  in  smaller  italic  type,  mostly  according  to  the  suggestions  of 
Professor  de  la  Vallee  Poussin,  who  published  a  preliminary  reading  of  the  two  frag- 
ments in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1911,  pp.  764-7.  With  these 
complements  the  text,^  which  comprises  verses  48-74,  reads  as  follows : — 

^  The  text  is  disfigured  by  numerous  clerical  errors.  Thus  in  four  places  a  number  of 
syllables  are  missed  out ;  see  footnotes  9,  12,  20,  25.  For  instances  of  blundered  letters,  see 
footnotes  4-8,  10,  11,  14-18,  21—24.  In  some  cases  the  apparent  blunder  may  be  due  to  the 
ink  having  become  rubbed  off;  e.g.  in  cases  of  a  missing  anusvara  (footnote  3),  or  in  somya  for 
saumya,  Jcala  for  hold,  &c.  There  are  also  indications  of  the  text  having  been  tampered 
with  by  a  later  hand,  as  in  fol.  6,  obv.  1.  1,  so  of  cetaso.  In  other  places  the  text  is 
obscured  by  smudges  produced  by  some  accident  (footnotes  13,  19),  or  apparently,  as 
suggested  by  Professor  de  la  Vall6e  Poussin,  by  the  impress  of  the  wet  writing  of  the 
superincumbent  folio,  as  in  fol.  6,  rev.  11.  3,  4,  left  edge.  On  the  system  of  interpunction 
see  the  Note  on  p.  62. 


66  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

Fol.  6.  Obverse. 

1  {ti)gh  --anunayam  prati  -^  yasya  te  cetaso  'nyatva  ^  tasya  te  ka  statir  * 

bhavet^  48  Gunesv  api  na  saiigo  'sti  (3)x{^'^to  na  guna- 

2  ('y)atsu  pi « -^  aho  te  suprasannasya  tvasya "  parisuddhata  P  49  Indri- 

yanarii  prasadena  nitya-kalan  apft|--V«»a  '-  ce- 

3  {to  n-f)tjam  prasannam  te  pratyaksam  eva  drsyate  ^  50  Abalebhyah 

prasiddhyante  mati-smrti-vi^uddhayal -;A  «--  uttama- 

4  (&^a)va-^isunaih  suvyahrta-sucestitaih  51  Upasantarii  ca  kantaria  ca 

diptam  aprat/ghati  ca  «^  nibhr||/e  sva-Sriyd 

5  {c<^e)[dam]  rupaiii ''    kam    iva   n^^ksipet^    52    YeiK^^pi    ^ata^o    drstam 

yo    'pi  tat  purvam   iksate  »^  rupaiii   prinati  te   caksuh  samam  Jiad 
ahhayor  idam^ 

6  53    Aseca,{nal-a)-hhsiViid    dhi    som.ya^-hha,vac    ca    te    vaptih    davsane 

2J[r]itim^  \yi  w  x](na)vam  nava(TO\)  54  x  ^i  xl  x("  -      x  xxx 

Reverse. 

1  x[gunu  sthi)[tah  xxxx  ^ x](steTO)[xx  ^'[[rupaya  5)\5  kv<^dn\{ya- 

tra)  su|  {sthito  bhuydd  ayam  Tdthagato  gunah 

2  \rte    ru\p&t    tav#^iv*^smaZ    laksana-vyanjaii-6jvalat\^°    56     Dbanyam 

asm4ti  ti^°  riipam  vadat4v«4^ritarhi°  gunfl'j_|n^  su-vinyasta 

3  (vayam    api)    pratyaliur    iva  ^^   tad-gunah    57    Sarvam  ev«a^esena  ^^ 

kle^air  baddliam  idam  jagat^  tvarh  jsi[gay^t-klesa-moks'i-d- 

4  (grille  yatahy^  karunaya  ciram^  58  Kan  nil  prathamato  vande  tvaiii 

maha-karunam  uta  •^  yay#aii;al|;n  api  dosa- 

"  Complement  pratigh°.  '  Read  'nyatvam,  tvdm,  evam,  val-yam,  clilaksnam. 

'  Read  ka  statir.  °  Read  ixitsv  api.  ^  Read  halasya. 

'  Read  rupam.  *  Read  saumya. 

'  This  half-verse  is  very  puzzling.  It  is  short  by  four  syllables.  After  prltim  there 
are  three  illegible  syllables ;  but,  including  these,  the  existing  half-verse  has  only  twelve 
syllables  ;  four  syllables,  therefore,  to  complete  the  full  number  of  sixteen,  are  missed  out. 
But  it  is  difficult  to  see  how  exactly  they  are  to  come  in  to  produce  a  correctly  scanning 
verse.  The  Tibetan  translation,  as  Dr.  Thomas  informs  me,  afibrds  no  assistance,  as  it 
simply  says  'produce  love  '.  It  would  seem  that  the  text  of  this  verse  was  corrupt  already 
at  the  time  when  that  translation  was  made. 

"  Read  °ojjvaldt,  and  te,  and  °diritdn,  a  mixed  Sanskrit  form  [Dr.  Thomas]. 
"   Read  eva.  '"  Read  Ovisesena. 

"  Dr.  Thomas  suggests  dhrta  ;  the  original  is  badly  smirched,  but  there  appears  to  be 
a  trace  of  ya. 


SATAPANCASATIKA   STOTEA  67 

5  ijnas)  tvam  samsare  dhrta^  ciram^   59  Viveka-sukha-S£itmyasya  yad 

akirnasya  te  gatah  kala^"*  labdha-prasaraya  "(SaAw  karuna- 

6  {ya  ma)tam^_    60   SandacZ"  aranyad  gram-^nfam  tvaiii  hi  naga  iva 

hradat^  viney-^rthaiii  karunaya  vidyay<;ev«:4|Ar<a;^  ^^  punalf.  61 

Fol.  7.  Obverse. 

1  ParMn-opasanta-sthol^i^jji  •^  y^  karuna-paravattaya  karitas^*  tvaiii  padaiii 

natha  k\isilava-kalasv  api  r;  62j/?(f(?Ai^  ca  shhha-nd- 

2  da    ya    s^'rt.-||(7Mn-(5||dbh||(^^)||anas  ^*    ca    yah    vant-6cch-6pavicarasya 

karunya-nikasah  sa  te  (53  'Pax^i'th-aiklii  ntato  bhadrd  svdrthe 

3  (V?A?/ft^ft)ya-nisthura  "^  "  tvayy<;eva  kevalaiii  natha  karuna  ^^  bhavetx 

4  m 


64  Tatha^i  hi  krtva  ba|^MC?Aa  baliddna- 


iva  kvacit^  parepam^^  artha-siddhy-artham  tvaiii  viksiptavati  di^ah 
65  Tvad-icchay<^aiva  tu  YjdJcta 


:t?jj.^xxxx  w 


'm 


5  vartate '^  ta{ih)a    hi    badhaman    api    tva  ^    sati    [n#d]paradhyate    66 

Supadani  mahirthani  tathyani  m.a,^dhurdni  ca  '^  gainhhl- 

6  [rdrtha-S2Jhut\dir\th'\&\_n'\i    [sa](?7i)a[s«]-vyasavan[^]i    ca  S  67  Kasya    na 

syad    upa[^ri/]<?/«    vakyany   eva-^vidhani  te  >>  ^itvat-paripanthakasy^d- 

Eeverse. 

1  pi  sarvajha  iti  wisc«y«w^j68  Pra[^o  Jia]  madhuram  sarvam  [_svadu  tiC\ 

kinciii  anyatha^'^  "^  vakya^  tSiY^^drtha-siddhes  tu  sarva- 

2  in    e[va']   {sit)\b]ia]siteiui-,    69    Yac    chlaksna"   {yac    ca)   parusaiii   yad 

va  ^ac?-ubhay-aiiviYam\  sarvam  eY-^SM'a^rasatdm  vicdrya 

3  ya^^"  fe  vacah  70  Aho  suparisuddhanaiii  karmanaiti  naipunaiii  param^ 

yair  idaiYC^vdkya-ratndndm  sa- 


"  Bead  kola,  and  'prasaraya.  Dr.  Thomas  suggests  'prascvraya  which,  though  more 
suitable,  offends  the  metre. 

'^  Read  iantdd. 

"  Ahrtah  is  Dr.  Thomas's  suggestion,  as  it  renders  the  Tibetan  dram  better  than 
dgatah. 

"  Tlie  mark  of  division  is  misplaced  ;  it  should  come  after  paravattayd. 

'*  Read  kdritas,  and  °t)dblidvandi. 

^^  The  original  has  only  a  single  flat  curve,  being  the  mark  of  division.  The 
apparent  dot  below  it  is  only  a  smudge  ;   there  is  no  double  dot,  or  visarga. 

^''  The  original  omits  three  syllables.     Read  harwa^dkarund. 

'^  Read  tatlid,  and  rev.  1.  1,  anyaihd  ''  B.ea.A  paresdm. 

i-  2 


68  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

4  (drsam)   [bhaja]nam  krtam^    71    Asmad^^*  dhi   netra-subhagad   idaiii 

^ruti-manoharam^  mukha|c?  vacanam  utpannam 

5  candrdd   dra{vad   i)iv^m[r]tam^    72    Raga-renuiii    pra^amayad   vaiii- 

kyaiti^*  te  jaladayate  '^  Vainateyayate  dve|sa-sarpfl!wi  ev^dpasdra- 

6  yat^   7||5   iladhi/uhf^,{nd)yate  hJiilyo^^  hy  fljnana-timiram  nudat^  ^akra- 

yudhayate  mdn&-girin  abhivid||araya/\  74 

TRANSLATION. 

[Fol.  6.  Obverse]  Verse  48 towards  conciliation  of  an  adversary  :  what 

praise  should  there  be  on  thy  part  of  him,  between  whose  and  thy  mind  there  is 
a  difference ! 

Verse  49.  Neither  in  the  qualities  is  there  seen  any  community,  nor  in  the 
owners  of  the  qualities :  ah  !  the  supreme  purity  of  thy  exceeding  power  ! 

Verse  50.  Throug-h  the  calmness  of  (thy)  senses  (which  is)  at  no  time  absent,  thy 
mind  is  seen  to  be  ever  calm  by  the  very  evidence  of  the  eyes. 

Verse  51.  From  (thy)  infancies  ^^  pure  conditions  of  thought  and  memory  are 
evinced  by  (thy)  good  sayings  and  good  endeavours  which  betray  an  excellent 
nature. 

Verse  52.  Being  serene,  and  lovely,  and  bright,  and  non-contentious,  and  by 
its  glory  being  in  a  humble-one,  whom,  I  wonder,  should  this  (thy)  form  not  put 
to  shame  ? 

Verse  53.  By  whomsoever  it  is  seen  a  hundred  times,  whosoever  sees  it  for  the 
first  time  :  thy  form  pleases  equally  the  eye  of  either. 

Verse  54.  For  by  reason  of  its  charm  and  of  its  placidity  thy  figure,  as  soon  as 
it  is  seen,  excites  love  ever  anew. 

Verse  55.  Seeing  that  the  qualities  which  repose  in  thee,  and  the  qualities  of 
their  receptacle,  harmonize  with  each  other,  thy  figure  possesses  the  best  wealth  of 
qualities.^' 

[Reverse]  Verse  56.  Where  else  should  this  quality  of  being  a  Tathagata  be  so 
well  placed  but  in  this  thy  form,  brilliant  with  signs  and  tokens  ? 

Verse  57.  '  Blessed  I  am ',  thus  says,  as  it  were,  thy  form  with  reference  to  the 

''  Eead  asmdd.  "  Read  vakyam. 

"  Eead  hhuyo^yi. 

'^''  The  plural  '  infancies '  perhaps  refers  to  the  Buddha  in  his  previous  births.  See 
below,  footnote  29. 

"  The  original  text  of  this  verse  is  almost  illegible.  The  translation  is  from  the 
Tibetan  and  French  of  Professor  de  la  Valine  Poussin. 


SATAPANCA^ATIKA  STOTEA  69 

qualities  possessed  (by  it)  :  '  We  too  are  well  placed  ',  so  reply,  as  it  were,  those 
qualities. 

Verse  58.  The  whole  world,  without  any  distinction  at  all,  is  caught  in  troubles  : 
thou,  for  the  sake  of  relieving  the  troubles  of  the  world,  wast  stirred  with  pity 
so  long. 

Verse  59.  How  should  I  not,  first  of  all,  praise  thee,  the  very  embodiment  of 
great  Compassion,  by  which  thou,  knowing  its  ills,  hast  been  detained  in  mundane 
existence  so  long  ? 

Verse  60.  (The  fact)  that  the  times  of  thee  to  whom  the  comfort  of  isolation 
is  natural  were  spent  in  the  midst  of  a  crowded  world,  was  highly  esteemed  by  thee, 
the  (embodiment  of)  Compassion,  as  an  opportunity  for  its  wide  manifestation. 

Verse  61.  For  from  the  peaceful  forest  to  the  border  of  a  village  thou  wast 
drawn,  like  a  Naga  from  the  lake,  for  the  sake  of  being  trained  by  Compassion,  as 
it  were  by  science. 

[Fol.  7.  Obverse]  Verse  62.  Though  dwelling  in  supreme  peace,  yet  through 
obedience  to  (the  call  of)  pity  thou  wast  made  to  set  foot,  oh  Lord,  indeed  in  the 
arts  of  an  actor. 

Verse  63.  Magical  power,  and  lion's  roars  which  are  the  proclamations  of  one's 
own  qualities,  these  were,  in  the  case  of  thee  who  hadst  eschewed  the  seductions  of 
desire,  the  touchstone  of  compassion. 

Verse  64.  Solely  in  the  interest  of  others  favourable,  in  one's  own  interest  hard 
of  disposition  :  in  thy  case  indeed  alone,  oh  Lord,  compassion  might  become  its 
opposite. 

Verse  65.  For  thus,  making  thee  in  many  ways,  as  it  were,  an  offering  some- 
where or  other,  in  order  to  secure  the  interest  of  others,  she  (i.e.  Compassion)  cast 
thee  out  to  the  four  winds. 

Verse  66.  But  indeed  to  thy  own  desire  she  is  distinctly  (in  this  matter  con- 
forming ?) ;  for  thus,  even  though  she  is  always  harassing  thee,  she  does  not 
offend  thee. 

Verse  67.  Good  words,  of  great  import,  truthful,  and  sweet,  of  meaning  pro- 
found and  yet  clear  ;  (spoken)  with  conciseness  as  well  as  with  details  ; 

Verse  68.  To  whom,  having  heard  such  words  of  thine,  even  if  he  were  thy 
adversary,  would  there  not  be  the  certainty  that  thou  art  all-knowing  ? 

[Reverse]  Verse  69.  On  the  whole  not  all  is  sweet ;  but  some  sweet  is  other- 
wise :  thy  speech,  on  account  of  accomplishing  its  object,  is,  all  of  it  indeed,  well 
said.^* 


'^  The  Tibetan  translation,  as  rendered  to  me  by  Dr.  Thomas,  says  :  '  On  the  whole  not 
all  is  sweet ;  some  sweet  is  fictitious ;   all  thy  words,  though  in  sense  successful,  are  well 


70  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

Verse  70.  Whether  smooth,  or  whether  rough,  or  whether  partaking  of  both, 
all  thy  speech  indeed,  on  reflection,  tends  to  have  but  one  character  (i.e.  of  sweetness). 

Verse  71.  Ah !  the  exceeding  skill  in  supremely  good  deeds,^^  by  which  this 
vessel  is  made  suitable  for  jewel-like  speeches. 

Verse  73.  Por  this  ear-ravishing  speech,  coming  from  that  mouth,  which  is 
well-pleasing  to  the  eye,  drops  like  nectar  from  the  moon. 

Verse  73.  In  laying  the  dust  of  passion  thy  speech  acts  as  a  raincloud  ;  it  acts 
like  Vainateya  in  expelling  the  serpent  of  enmity.^" 

Verse  74.  It  acts  also  regularly  as  the  midday  ^^  in  dispelling  the  darkness  of 
ignorance  :  it  acts  as  Sakra's  bow  in  mutilating  the  mountains  of  self-conceit.^^ 


No.  3.     Stein  MS.,  Ch.  VII,  001  B^. 

This  is  practically  a  complete  folio  of  the  same  pothi  to  which  the  preceding 
Stein  MSS.  VII,  001  B  ^■^,  belong.  The  full  size  of  the  pothi  is  thus  shown  to  be 
363  X  88  mm.  (or  14^0  X  3§  inches).  The  left  margin  has  suflpered  slight  damage, 
which  has  caused  the  loss  of  the  folio-number.  Of  the  text,-^  which  comprises  verses 
117-131,  a  preliminary,  annotated  reading,  together  with  a  reduced  facsimile,  was 
published  by  Professor  de  la  Vallee  Poussin  in  the  Journal  HAS.  for  1911, 
pp.  767-9.     It  is  utilized  in  the  subjoined  transcript  and  translation. 


said.'  In  accordance  with  it  the  missing  portion  of  the  text  is  coujecturally  supplied  by 
him  and  Professor  de  la  Vallee  Poussin  as  arthasiddhyapi.  But  this  does  not  seem  to  give 
to  the  verse  a  satisfactory  meaning.  As  indicated  by  verse  70,  the  idea  of  it  seems  to  be, 
'  Some  words  of  Buddha  are  not  sweet ;  but  not  all  that  is  sweet  is  profitable ;  anyhow, 
whether  sweet  or  not,  all  his  words  are  well  said.'  If  that  is  the  idea  of  the  verse,  the 
complement  suggested  by  me  seems  more  to  the  point.  The  extant  portion  of  the  text, 
though  very  much  worn,  is  fairly  certain,  except  the  two  syllables  yo  na  which  are  broken 
away;  also  smc?M  might  be  madAM.     Cf.  W.GIL.,  vol.  ii,  pp.  50,  57-8;  M.N.  i,  395,  sutra  58. 

''■^  The  reference  is  to  the  Buddha's  deeds  (karma)  in  previous  births,  which  made  him 
a  vessel  of  sweet  speeches  [Dr.  Thomas].     See  above,  footnote  26. 

'"  Vainateya,  or  son  of  Vinata,  an  epithet  of  Garuda,  the  mythical  bird  and  enemy  of 
the  serpent  race. 

'^  The  existing  traces  of  the  original  text  show  that  Professor  de  la  Vallee  Poussin's 
alternative  reading  madhyahnayate  is  correct;  and  therefore  pi  was  missing  in  the 
original. 

^^  Keference  to  the  Vedic  myth  of  the  mutilation  and  destruction  of  the  demon  Vrtra 
by  Indra,  or  Sakra. 

^  See  footnote  1  to  No.  2,  p.  65.  There  are  similar  blunders  and  jieouliarities  in 
the  text  of  this  folio. 


SATAPANCASATIKA  STOTEA  71 

Obverse. 

1  >^xxx£;(mcl  ^^l)  ^    hsunnah    supt[o]   gnhantdke^Y    api  r  117     Fvi{jy-) 

41vsepa  vrta  ^  seva  visa*-bhas-antara'//i  krtam\  natha  va[[ne))ja-vatsa- 
Ijat  ^  pra- 

2  hhunnipi  '^  sata   tvaya  s  118    Prabhutvam    api  te  natba   sada  n^^at- 

mani  vidjate  "^  vaktav3-a  iva  sarvair  hi  svairarii  sv^rthe  niyujyase 
100- 

3  10-9  Yensb  ^  kenacid  eva  tvaiii  ya^rct  tatra  yatlia  tatha  •^  coditah  svaiii 

pratipadaiii  kalyamm  iii^^tivartase  S  120  N#6pakara-j)flre 

4  'py  evam "   upakara-paro  janah   apakara-pare  'pi   tvam   upakara-paro 

yatba  p  121  Ahit-avahite  ''  ^atrau  tvajii  hii-m&lil- 

5  to/i"  suhrtx,  dos-advesana  ^-nitye    'pi  gun-i,iivesana-tatparah  122   Yato 

nimantranaiii  te  'bhut  sa-visaih  sa-hutasanam,,  tatr#4bhud  abhisam- 

6  yanaiii   sa-dayam   s-amrtan  ca  te  s  123    Akrostharo  '■'  jitah   ksantya 

drugdhah  svastyayanena  ca  •^  satyena  c^apavaktaras  tvaya  raaittrya 
^ighajTiisava  ^ 

Eeverse. 

1  lOO^i-20  ^-4   Anacl[i]-k[(Z]la-prahata  bahvyah  prakrtayo  nrnam,,  tvaya 

vibbat"-apayab  ksanena  parivar^ita(/i)  125  Ysit-soTSityan^''-ga- 

2  tas  i^iksnah  '^  kadaryas  ca  vadamnutam\  krtirah  pesalatam  yatas  tat  tav« 

6paya"-kausalamv   126  Indriy-opasamo  nanto  ^^    niana-stabdhe   ca 
sitm- 

3  \_na]iih "  ksamitvam  c«Angulimalam  ^^  kan  iia  vismayam  anayet^  127 

Bahavas  trna-sayyasu  hitva  sayya  hivsumima-  " 


"  The  apparent  syllables  ma  md  are  blurred  ;  and  the  second  md  stands  below  the  line. 

^  Eead  krte.  *  Possibly  read  vesa.  ^  Eead  mtsalydt. 

'  The  two  or  three  initial  syllables  are  partially  washed  out. 

'  Kead  dvahite.  *  Read  dnvesana.  ^  Eead  dkrostdro,  and  jighdriisavah. 

^°  Read  vibhdvitd°,  sauratyan. 
'^  The  syllable  to  is  a  correction  secunda  manu. 

^^  Read  nande.     In  the  words  °y{6)paktm{o)  na{nto)  {md)nas{t)ab{dhe),  all  the  bracketed 
letters  are  written  secunda  manu.     The  original  writing  seems  to  have  been  ydpasame. 
''  Eead  dngullmdle. 
"  Eead  hiranma,  and  1.  4  noktam,  without  the  superfluous  anusvai-a. 


vacc 


72  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

4  ya\]i\^    dserata''^    sukham    dhlras    trpta    dharma-rasasya    te  r  128 

Prsten^^api  tvacin  i"  n«6ktamm  i*  up6ty!>api  krta  katha  <--  tarsayitva  ^' 
'^''B   (r/)^^a5H "    kal-^saya-vida    tvaya  ^  129    Purvaiii    dana-kath- 

adyabhi^  ^^   cetasy  utpadya   sausthavam^   tato    dharmo   gata-male 

vestre  "  ranga  "  i[vfd-'] 
6   Ai^aA  20  J^O(5_5(5  e    jy^^   /.:op[^^    itjpa^/as    6'rt.Z-2/o['s^]*    vena   na   vyayatam 

tvaya  '^  ghorat   samsara-patalad   uddhartu  ^^   krpanam  jagat^    131 

Bahuni  bah[x] 

TRANSLATION. 

[Obverse]  Verse  117 (over  broken  ground  be  passes?)  asleep  even  on 

difficult  cattle-patbs.^^ 

Verse  118.  Service  replete  with  insults  is  done,  (mode  of)  speech  is  changed  to 
that  of  a  servant,^^  oh  Lord,  by  thee,  though  being  the  master,  for  the  sake  of 
tenderness  to  be  taught. 

Verse  119.  Though  mastership  is  thine,  oh  Lord,  it  is  never  manifested  in  thy 
own  cause  :  for  like  one  who  may  be  spoken  to  thou  art  employed  by  every  one  at 
will  in  his  own  business. 

Verse  120.  By  whomsoever,  wheresoever,  howsoever  thou  art  ordered,  thou  never 
transgressest  thy  own  noble  path  of  duty. 

Verse  121.  Not  even  towards  the  friendly- disposed  are  people  so  disposed  to  be 
friendly,  as  even  to  the  unfriendly  disposed  thou  art  disposed  to  be  friendly. 

Verse  122.  Towards  an  enemy  intent  on  injury,  thou  art  a  friend  intent  on 

"  Read  aierate,  and  hvacin,  and  tavpayitva. 

'*  The  complement  vaco  rifctam  is  a  mere'  conjecture,  ad  sensum.  The  Tibetan,  teste 
Dr.  Thomas,  gives  no  assistance.     The  two  syllables  riktmh  are  faintly  legible. 

"  One  expects  the  masculine  danahathddijaU ;  the  feminine  is  apparently  taken  from 
katha.  ^'  Eead  vastre. 

^'  The  original  seems  to  have  rdnga ;  but  the  vowel  a,  if  it  is  not  a  mere  smudge,  is 
written  secunda  manu,  and  apparently  crossed  out. 

^''  The  complement  dhitah  is  Dr.  Thomas's  suggestion. 

^'  Eead  uddhartum. 

''■''■  On  gokantaka  see  Mahavagga,  v,  13,  6,  footnote  2,  in  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol. 
xvii,  p.  34,  where  it  is  rendered  by  'trampled  bj""  the  feet  of  cattle'.  The  commentary 
quoted  there,  and  in  Childers's  Pali  Dictionary,  explains  it  by  '  spoilt  with  sharp  clods 
[thorns  ?]  risen  up  from  places  trodden  by  the  hoofs  of  cattle '.  See  also  Divyavadana, 
p.  19,  1.  19,  and  p.  704. 

^^  The  Sanskrit  text  of  the  Tibetan  translation  apparently  reads  vesa,  clothes.  Our 
text  has  visa,  servant,  which  yields  good  sense,  though,  of  course,  it  may  be  a  clerical 
error. 


SATAPANCASATIKA  STOTRA  73 

beneficence  :  towards  one  perpetually  searching  for  faults,  thou  art  bent  upon  search- 
ing for  merits. 

Verse  123.  When  there  was  an  invitation  to  thee  accompanied  with  poison  (and) 
with  fire :  then  there  was  visiting  on  thy  part,  with  kindliness  and  with  nectar. 

Verse  124.  Revilers  are  conquered  by  thee  with  forbearance,  and  injurers  with 
blessing  ;  and  with  veracity  detractors,  with  friendliness  the  revengeful. 

[Reverse]  Verse  125.  Numerous  classes  of  men,  depraved  from  beginless  time, 
are  converted  by  thee  in  an  instant,  being  made  to  perceive  their  evil  state. 

Verse  126.  That  the  hot  have  turned  to  kindliness,  the  miserly  to  liberality  : 
that  the  fierce  have  taken  to  tenderness, — that  is  the  happy  result  of  thy  skill  in 
expedients. 

Verse  127.  Calmness  of  senses  towards  the  elated,  and  towards  the  stuck-up 
with  pride  complaisance  ;  forbearance  towards  an  Angulimala  ;  ^^  to  whom  should  it 
not  cause  astonishment  ? 

Verse  128.  Many,  having  relinquished  couches  of  gold,  rest  in  comfort  on 
couches  of  grass,  contented,  satiated  with  the  elixir  of  thy  Law. 

Verse  129.  By  thee  who  knowest  the  right  time  and  disposition,  sometimes, 
though  asked,  nothing  is  said  ;  having  accosted,  converse  is  made  ;  having  satisfied, 
speech  is  relinquished. 

Verse  130.  Having  first  by  gifts  and  conversations  raised  in  the  mind  a  healthy 
condition,  thereupon  the  Law  is  impressed,  just  as  colour  on  cloth  cleansed  of  dirt. 

Verse  131.  There  is  no  possible  means  whereby  thou  didst  not  exert  thyself  to 
rescue  the  miserable  world  from  the  fearful  hell  of  mundane  existence. 

No.  4.  Stein  MS.,  Khora  005  b. 

This  is  a  small  fragment,  108  x  45  mm.  (or  4^  x  1|  inches),  bearing  on  either 
side  the  remains  of  three,  rather  sand-worn,  lines  of  writing  in  Slanting  Gupta 
characters.  The  string-hole  is  at  55  mm.  (or  2|-  inches)  off  the  left  edge,  within 
a  blank  square  of  about  30  mm.  (or  1\  inches).  The  left  margin  is  damaged, 
rendering  illegible  the  folio-number,  which  however  appears  to  have  stood  on  the 

^*  Angalimala,  the  converted  robber,  is  a  well-known  figure  in  Buddhist  tradition. 
He  received  his  name  from  his  habit  of  cutting  off  the  fingers  of  his  victims  and  wearing 
them  as  a  necklace.  The  Angulimaliya  Sutta,  No.  86  in  the  Majjhima  Nikaya,  vol.  ii,  p.  97, 
relates  the  story  of  his  conversion  by  Buddha.  See  also  Mahavagga,  i,  41,  in  SBE.,  vol.  xiii, 
p.  196,  and  Jataka  (transL),  No.  55  in  vol.  i,  p.  139,  No.  537  in  vol.  v,  p.  246,  No.  546  in 
vol.  vi,  p.  156  ;  also  Sp.  Hardy's  Eastern  Monachism,  p.  36,  Manual,  pp.  249  £f.,  Oldenberg's 
Buddha,  p.  262,  n.  4,  and  Mrs.  Rhys  David's  Psalms  of  the  Early  Buddhists,  vol.  ii,  p.  318. 
The  Angulimaliya  Sutra  is  mentioned  in  S.  S.,  p.  133, 1.  4,  Mvy.,  No.  65,  74.  It  was  trans- 
lated into  Chinese  (Nanjio,  No.  434)  by  Gunabhadra  (a.d.  420-479). 


74  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

reverse  side,  facing  the  middle  line.  As  may  be  calculated  from  the  context,  tran- 
scribed below,  the  extant  fragment  is  just  below  one-half  of  the  folio,  the  full 
dimensions  of  which,  accordingly,  would  have  been  about  233  x  45  mm.  (or  9  X  If 
inches).  It  must  have  belonged  to  a  fine  small-sized  pothi.  The  text  consists  of 
the  remnants  of  five  verses  of  the  Satapancasatika  Stotra,  numbered  10  to  14.  The 
identity  of  the  verses  was  first  discerned  by  Dr.  Thomas,  who  noticed  other  remains 
of  the  same  verses  in  the  fragment  of  the  Pelliot  Collection  which  is  republished  by 
Professor  de  la  Vallee  Poussin  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1911, 
p.  769.  That  fragment  had  been  published  originally  by  Professor  Sylvain  Levi, 
with  a  reduced  facsimile,  in  the  Journal  Asiatique  (1910),  vol.  xvi,  pp.  450-6.  In  it 
the  verses  are  numbered  147  to  150 ;  and  this  apparent  discrepancy  is  explained 
by  Professor  S.  Levi  as  due  to  the  fact  that  the  Satapancasatika  Stotra  was 
divided  into  sections,  the  verses  of  which  might  be  numbered  either  continuously 
or  separately,  the  latter  mode  being  obsei-ved  in  the  Tibetan  version  of  the  hymn. 
In  that  version  the  hymn  is  divided  into  thirteen  sections,  and  the  verses  of  our 
fragment  belong  to  its  last  section,  which,  seeing  that  oui-  verse  11  is  identical  with 
verse  147  of  the  Pelliot  fragment,  must  in  our  pothl  have  begun  with  verse  137. 
In  combination  with  the  portions  of  the  Pelliot  text,  printed  in  italics,  and  with 
a  few  conjectural  complements  suggested  by  Professor  de  la  Vallee  Poussin,  shown 
in  smaller  italics,  the  text  of  the  Khora  fragment  runs  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  xxduskara-karitva  xmma  xxxxxS  10  Pardrtham  eva  me  clharma-r/lpa- 

2  kayav  ivi^  O  tvaya  duskulia jA-ai/a  lokdya  nirvdnam  upada- 

3  rsitam^ ;:;  11    Tatha   hi    satsu    saiiiga Jm^o.    dharma-Mijam     asesatah 

tdaso  T'fijKi- 

Keverse. 

1  kajail  ca  hitv^4si  parinirvrtali  10- 4— 2  Aho  nitir  aho  sthdnam  alio  rupam  a- 

2  bo  gunah  O  na  nama  Bviddha-dbaJ^/'mawam  asti  kascid  arismayah 

3  13    Upakarini     caksuse    s,d.i\td,-Y2i^k-kdya-karmani    tvayy    a  pi   prati- 

Tianyante 

TRANSLATION. 

(Verse  10.)  .  .     .by  doing  acts  difficult  to  do,  he  does  not  eliminate  them. 
Verse  11.  'Forthe  purpose  simply  of  advantaging  others  (it  is  that)  my  spiritual 
and  physical  body  (exists) : '  so  saying,  thou  didst  declare  Nirvana  to  an  apathetic  world. 

^  Read  iti. 


^ATAPANCASATIKA   STOTRA  75 

Verse  12.  Then  communicating  thy  spiritual  body  to  the  faithful  without 
reserve,  and  abandoning  thy  physical  body  in  bits  like  sesame  seed,  thou  didst  enter 
Parinirvana. 

Verse  13.  Ah,  the  rule  !  ah,  the  place !  ah,  the  body !  ah,  the  vii-tues !  None, 
surely,  there  is  among  the  conditions  of  the  Buddha  which  does  not  cause  wonderment ! 

Verse  14.  From  thee,  helpful,  comely,  gracious  in  speech  and  action,  even  (the 
passions  of  thy  enemies)  were  turned  away. 

NOTES. 

Verse  10.  The  text  of  the  verse  is  incomplete  ;  and  of  its  extant  portion,  the 
only  syllables  which  are  certain  are  dmkara-hdr'dva  ;  the  others  are  too  faint  and 
sand-worn  to  be  identified.  According  to  Professor  S.  L6vi,  the  Tibetan  version  of 
the  extant  portion  reads  clhah  spyad  yal  lar  ma  dor  ro,  which  he  renders  '  il  n'ecarte 
pas  en  les  diminuant  les  actes  difficiles  a  faire '. 

Verse  11.  Diisku/mka,  'apathetic',  in  the  Tibetan  version  yid  dies  dhah  or  'qui 
croit  difficilement '  (S.  L6vi),  occurs  in  the  Divyavadana,  p.  7, 1. 29,  and  signifies  '  one 
whose  attention  it  is  difficult  to  rouse  ',  '  who  is  slow  to  believe ',  from  V kuh, 
'mirationem  movere'  (Westergaard's  Radices  L.  S.). 

Verse  12.  The  text  of  the  Pelliot  fragment  has  miukrdmya  for  the  reading 
samgawya  of  our  fragment.  Both  words  have  the  same  meaning  of  communicating, 
bestowing.  There  is  another  difference  of  reading  with  regard  to  our  hitvd, 
abandoning.  According  to  Professor  Levi,  the  Tibetan  version  has  bsags,  which 
presupposes  an  original  Sanskrit  hhitvd  (i.  e.  ihittvd),  breaking  up,  dispersing. 

Verse  14.  Cdkpisa,  comely,  corresponds  to  the  Tibetan  dlta  iia  sdug, '  eharmant  a 
voir  ',  and  might  be  rendered  by  the  obsolete  English  '  eyeful '. 


13.  CATUHSATAKA   STOTEA 

Stein  MS.,  Khora  005  a  ;  Hoernle  MSS.,  No.  149^-  and  1495^  (Plates  III, 
Nos.  3,  4,  and  XIX,  No.  1). 

As  already  stated  in  the  introductory  remarks  on  the  Satapancasatika  Stotra, 
the  Catuhsataka,  or  Hymn  of  400  verses,  is  the  second  of  the  two  famous  hymns  of 
Matricheta.  Though,  as  the  discovery  of  these  three  fragments  shows,  it  was  well 
known  in  Central  Asia,  there  exists  no  Chinese  translation  of  it  (see  Takakusu's 
I-tsing,  p.  156,  footnote  3).  I-tsing  (in  the  latter  half  of  the  seventh  century)  to 
whom  both  this  and  the  hymn  of  150  verses  appear  to  have  been  well  known  {ibid., 
p.  157),  and  who  translated  the  latter  hymn  into  Chinese,  did  not  do  the  same 
service  to  the  hymn  of  400  verses.  There  exists  a  Tibetan  version  which  has  been 
noticed  by  Dr.  Thomas  in  his  account  of  Matricheta  in  the  Indian  Antiquary,  vol.  xxxii, 
pp.  345  ff.,  and  four  chapters  of  which  have  been  published  by  him.  Hid.,  vol.  xxxiv, 


76  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

pp.  145  ff.  In  that  translation  the  hymn  is  called  Yarnandrha-varnana  Stotra,  or 
'  Hymn  of  Praise  of  the  Worthy  of  Praise '.  This  name,  in  the  slightly  altered  form 
T'arndrha-varna,  occurs  in  the  third  line  of  the  reverse  of  the  two  fragments  Nos.  2,  3 
(pp.  81,  83).  The  Tibetan  historian  Taranatha,  when  speaking,  in  his  History  of 
Buddhism  (Sehiefner's  transl.,  p.  91),  of  Matricheta's  activity  as  a  hymn-writer, 
specifically  mentions  only  his  hymn  of  150  verses,  but  the  hymn  of  400  verses  is  no  doubt 
included  in  the  '  one  hundred  hymns  in  praise  of  Buddha  ',  the  composition  of  which 
he  ascribes  to  Matricheta  ;  and  ibid.,  p.  83,  he  refers  to  a  commentary  on  the  hymn 
of  400  verses  written  by  the  Acharya  Chandrakirti,  whom  he  apparently  identifies 
with  Chandrakirti,  the  contemporary  and  rival  of  Chandragomin  (p.  137)  in  the 
earlier  half  of  the  sixth  century  (JRAS.,  1909,  p.  144). 

Like  the  Satapancasatika,  the  Catuhsataka  hymn  is  written  in  the  sloka  measure, 
and  as  the  Tibetan  translation  shows  it  is  divided  into  twelve  chapters.  A  comparison 
with  it,  made  by  Dr.  Thomas,  shows  that  the  piece,  Khora  005  a,  contains  the  initial 
eleven  verses  of  the  first  chapter,  while  the  second  piece,  No.  149^,  contains  the  final 
portion,  verses  32-40,  of  the  sixth  chapter,  and  the  ■  first  two  verses  of  the  seventh 
chapter,  and  the  third  piece.  No.  149^,  contains  the  latter  half,  verses  6-15,  of  the 
twelfth  chapter.  Unfortunately,  however,  the  text  is  sadly  mutilated :  some  por- 
tions of  the  lost  text  (printed  in  smaller  italic  type)  have  been  conjecturally  restored, 
in  the  subjoined  transcript,  on  the  basis  of  the  Tibetan  translation.  The  third 
piece,  in  rev.  11.  4  and  5  (p.  88),  supplies  the  final  colophon  of  the  whole  hymn.  It 
is  there  named  CatuMatakarn  (scl.  stotram),  or  the  400-versed  hymn,  and  is  described 
as  a  krti,  or  art- work,  of  the  Acharya  31d\i,rceta\.  In  the  original  fragment,  only  the 
syllable  7nd  of  the  name  is  preserved.  Dr.  Watanabe  was  the  first,  by  a  happy 
inspiration,  afterwards  confirmed  by  a  comparison  with  the  Tibetan  translation, 
to  identify  it  as  the  initial  syllable  of  Mdfrceta.  In  oui'  fragments  the  verses  are 
numbered  separately  in  each  chapter ;  but  in  the  Tibetan  translation,  they  are 
numbered  consecutively  through  the  whole  hymn.  There  the  sixth  chapter  com- 
mences with  verse  183,  and  accordingly  the  verses  32-40  are  there  numbered 
214-222.  The  two  initial  verses  of  the  seventh  chapter  are  there  numbered  223 
and  224. 

The  three  fragmentary  folios  come  from  two  difierent  localities.  The  Stein  MS. 
was  recovered  from  the  ruins  at  Khora,  near  Karashahar  (see  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ruins 
of  Desert  Cathay,  vol.  ii,  p.  372),  while  the  two  Hoernle  MSS.  came  from  Jigdalik, 
near  Bai.  They  obviously  belong  to  two,  if  not  three,  different  pothis.  The  two 
Jigdalik  fragments,  which  have  the  same  number  (five)  of  lines  on  the  page, 
and  show  strikingly  similar  handwriting,  might  belong  to  a  single  pothi,  though 
their  somewhat  different  width  (about  23  mm.  or  |  inch)  makes  that  conclusion 
rather  doubtful. 


CATUHSATAKA  STOTEA  77 

The  three  fragments  are  written  in  the  slanting  type  of  the  Gupta  script.  It  is 
worth  noting  in  this  connexion  that  all  the  fragments  of  the  Satapancasatika  Stotra 
likewise  are  written  in  Slanting  Gupta  characters.  That  type  of  the  Gupta  script 
prevailed  in  the  northern  portion  of  Eastern  Turkestan.  So  far  as  known  at  present, 
no  fragment  of  either  hymn  has  been  discovered  written  in  either  of  the  types 
(upright  and  cursive)  of  Gupta  current  in  its  southern  portion.  Such  fragments  may 
yet  come  to  light ;  but  in  the  meantime  the  available  evidence  points  to  the  popularity 
of  the  Matricheta  hymns,  at  least  in  their  original  Sanskrit  version,  having  been 
restricted  to  the  northern  Buddhist  settlements. 

The  portions  of  the  Catuhsataka  Stotra,  preserved  in  the  three  fragments, 
accordingly  are  the  following  : — 

(1)  Verses  1-11  of  the  first  chapter,  in  Stein  MS.,  Khora  005  a. 

,n,    (Verses  32-40  of  the  sixth  chapter,         1  •     tt        i    uto    tvt     n^r% 

(2)  Uj         ,      JO    ^4.1,  iu    1    \        m  Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149^V 
(V  erses  1  and  2  of  the  seventh  chapter,  J  ^  ^ 

(4)  Verses  6-15  of  the  twelfth  chapter,  in  Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149/5-. 

No.  1.     Stein  MS.,  Khora  005a  (Plate  XIX,  No.  1,  Obverse). 

This  fragment  measures  238  x  72  mm.  (or  9-||  x  2f  inches),  portions  being  broken 
off  at  either  end  of  the  folio.  Seeing  that  the  fracture  at  the  left  side  took  place  at 
the  string-hole,  and  allowing  for  the  vacant  space  around  that  hole,  it  follows  that,  as 
the  text  is  written  in  slokas  of  32  aksaras,  about  8  aksaras  are  missing  at  either  end,  or, 
as  about  3  aksaras  go  to  the  inch,  that  between  64  and  77  mm.  (or  2-|  and  3  inches)  of 
the  folio  at  either  end,  or  a  total  of  about  128-154  mm.  (or  5-6  inches)  are  broken  off. 
In  its  original  state,  therefore,  the  folio  must  have  measured  about  380  mm.  (or 
15  inches).  The  folio-number  is  lost ;  but  the  occurrence  of  the  number  100  in  the 
first  line  of  the  obverse  side  seems  to  indicate  that  the  folio  belonged  to  a  larger  pothi 
containing  a  collection  of  stotras  (see  Note  1,  p.  78).  The  upper  and  lower  margins 
of  the  folio  are  badly  damaged,  causing  one  of  the  five  lines  of  writing,  viz.  the  last 
on  the  obverse  and  the  first  on  the  reverse  side,  to  be  almost  wholly  illegible. 
Otherwise,  the  writing,  which  is  in  the  Slanting  Gupta  character,  though  in  some 
places  a  little  sand-rubbed,  is  very  fairly  legible. 

The  text,  with  conjectural  complements  ^  printed  in  smaller  italic  type,  reads  as 
follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1   xxxxxxxxjxm  prayatu  citto  jagati  x{dhayu)x{matih)  ii  100  [sloha)  ii 
Prasada-pra^tM-6dbhavo  nama  buddhaJs^o^raOT  xxxxxx 

'  Suggested  by  Dr.  Thomas,  on  the  basis  of  the  Tibetan  version. 


78  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

2  xxxxxxxxjii     II  Ksetr-4ksetr-4nabhijnena    &mti-matr-d?iusarln&\  jad 

avarn-^rha-varna  7»e|'^  varnitd  mohatah  purah 

3  1  J^dn-maleu^djjahl^^pcifiya,  I  praksalanam  idam  roaya  i  janga(7n«)-punja- 

tirtham  tva  i  m^  arabhy^arabhyate  mu|;«e  3  Yad  andhakdra- 

4  mildhasija  Icrtaih  trvrain(i^\d£is\\  I  tasy^^daiii  papjnano  me  'stu  I  pavi[/i'o];/i 

o.^Art-marsanamy  I  3  A-iiirodha  m(C\ —  xxxxx  ^ 

5  V     I  xxxxpw na  I  [muJii)xx  w  —  w  —  i  p^  xxxx  ^         xxxxx  ^  -  ^  x  [ 

xxxx   o  xxxxx 

Reverse. 

1  ^.   -   o   x  I  5  xxJxMc'  '-' inija  1  (tvati)xx  ^fj-    ^xixxxx^.--   -xxxxx   v 

-  V  X  I  6  Evam  sarv-dttamd  dharmd 

2  Buddhasya  sampradhdritd  I  |bhaA"aiiti   yati  Be.^rtn  ca  i  -yastv-avaskarfttam 

i('ya)  I  7  Na  ^e  'sti  sadrsah  kascidd  ^  adhiZ;a|s2/a  kath^-dstu  kd  alpa 

3  mutrena  hino   'pi  Mi;a^l■a|J  kascana  vidyate  i  8   Sa  *  kein^opanayami  ivd  I  ^ 

Dupaneyo  'si  nayaka  i  hrt-d^St,\n-kva^Msdija  nirupamdya 

4  te  na?Ma^  9  MrrrtH«J-samanya-gatai  I  s^  tato  'nyair  api  pudgalaih  tav* 

atulair  Buddha-dharmair  antaram  su-mabamay^am^  10  Smi/atd-mdtra- 

5  sddrsydd   yadi    n-fddhikyatd    hhci^et-^    romaki7p-4mtka-cc/i«/rm''{;dA:asam 

pratibi^jiftayety  i  11  Kah  saiiikhyasyaty  asamkye(i/am)|jxxxx  v 

NOTES. 

1.  lu  the  first  line  of  tlie  obverse  we  liave  the  conclusion  and  colophon  of 
a  work  which  preceded  the  text  of  the  Catnhsataka  in  the  pothi,  from  which  our 
fragmentary  folio  is  derived.  Its  colophon  gives  its  name  as  Framda-prafihlia- 
iidbhava,  or  '  Rise  of  the  Splendour  of  Graciousness ',  and  describes  it  as  a  Buddha- 
stotra ;  for  so^  no  doubt,  the  mutilated  term  must  be  completed.  The  name  is 
followed  by  the  clearljr  legible  numeral  figure  100,  and  two  blurred  aksaras 
which  may  be  read  as  Moka.  Anyhow  the  numeral  100  indicates  that  the  stotra 
must  have  consisted  of  one  hundred  verses;  and  as  its  text  precedes  that  of  the 
400-versed  hymn  of  Matricheta  in  the  pothi,  it  seems  probable  that  it  likewise 
was  a  composition  of  that  poet.     Among  his  works,  however,  as  enumerated  by 


2  See  Note  2,  p.  79. 

^  d  is  anomalously  duplicated ;  jserhaps  by  way  of  marking  the  end  of  the  pada,  which 
ill  other  cases  is  marked  by  the  interpuiiction  bar. 

''  sa  used  emphatically,  with  the  omission  of  aham  ;  for  so  'ham. 

''  For  tram  I  anupaneyo,  similar  to  tv^dditya-handhavajh  in  rev.  1.  4,  p.  39. 

"  Here  the  usual  cassura,  at  the  end  of  the  pada,  is  neglected. 


CATUHSATAKA  STOTRA  79 

Dr.  Thomas  in  Indian  Antiquary,  vol.  xxxii  (1903),  pp.  346-7,  there  occurs  no  hymn 
with  the  name  of  Prasada-pratibhodbhava.  At  the  same  time  it  is  also  noticeable  that 
the  list  does  not  contain  the  Satapancasatika  and  Catuhsataka  or  '  150- versed'  and 
'  400-versed '  hymns,  and  that  the  Varnanarha-varnana  [ibid.,  p.  346)  is  described 
as  IJtagavato  Buddliasya  stoira-traya,  or  '  three  hymns  in  praise  of  the  blessed  Buddha '. 
This  can  only  mean  that  the  Varnanarha-varnana  was  the  name  of  a  collection  of  three 
separate  hymns,  and  the  conclusion  is  supported  by  the  fact  that  in  the  third  frag- 
ment (rev.  11.  3,  4,  p.  83)  the  Catuhsataka  or  400-versed  hymn  is  apparently 
indicated  as  a  component  part  of  the  Varnanarha-varnana  hymn.  It  may  be  suggested 
that  the  three  hymns  which  constituted  the  Varnanarha-varnana  are  three  hymns 
consisting  of  400, 150,  and  100  verses  respectively  ;  and  that  the  100-versed  hymn  is 
the  one  which  bore  the  sj)ecific  name  of  Prasada-j)ratibh6dbhava. 

2.  With  regard  to  interpunction,  our  fragment  shows  two  peculiarities  in 
which  it  differs  from  the  general  system  explained  in  the  Note  on  pp.  62-3. 
The  first  is  that,  instead  of  the  usual  dot,  we  have  a  bar ;  and  further  that  this  bar 
is  used  to  mark  the  end  of  the  half-verse  as  well  as  of  the  full  verse.  The  second 
is  that  the  bar  is  used  almost  invariably-  to  mark  also  the  end  of  a  pada,  or 
quarter-verse.  There  are  only  two  exceptions,  (1)  at  the  end  of  the  first  pada, 
in  verse  1,  obv.  1.  2,  after  anahhijnena  ;  and  (2)  at  the  end  of  the  third  pada,  in 
verse  10,  rev.  1.  4^  after  dfiarmair.  A  third  exception,  naturally  caused  by  the 
absence  of  caesura,  occurs  in  rev.  1.  5,  chidrendkdmm.  In  this  connexion,  it  may 
be  noted  that,  when  a  ease  of  sandhi  interferes  with  the  mark  of  interjjunction, 
the  latter  is  placed  in  advance  of  the  sandhi,  which,  from  our  modern  point  of 
view,  produces  an  awkward  situation.  Thus  in  obv.  1.  3  we  have  ivd  \  mdrabhya 
for  tram  I  drabliya  ;  rev.  1.  4,  gatai  I  stato  for  yataiis  1  taio.  Similarly  in  rev.  1.  3,  tvd  I 
impaneyo,  we  have  the  bar  in  the  anomalous  contraction  iv-^dnujjaneyo. 

TRANSLATION.' 

[Obverse]  Verse  1.  Whereas  formerly,  not  knowing  what  is  and  what  is  not 
a  theme,  following  merely  in  the  track  of  speech,  I  sinfully  celebrated  what  should 
not  be  celebrated ; 

Verse  2.  (To  rid  myself)  of  that  smearing  with  the  filth  of  utterance  I  (now) 
approach  ^  this  cleaning,  approaching  thee,  O  Muni,  as  the  holy  bathing  ghat  of 
living  beings. 

Verse  3.  What,  blinded  with  darkness,  I  sinfully  committed  against  the  Precious 
Ones,  of  that  sin  may  this  be  the  sanctifying  effacement. 

Verses  4,  5,  and  6,  illegible. 

Verse  7.  Thus,  the  dharmas  of  Buddha,  when  considered,  have  surpassed  all ;  and 
all  the  rest  has  become,  as  it  were,  the  off-scouring  of  the  real  thing. 

'  This  is  Dr.  Thomas's  version  from  Indian  Antiquary,  vol.  xxxii,  p.  348,  and  vol.  xxxiv, 
pp.  145-6,  with  some  slight  modifioations  to  conform  to  the  now  discovered  Sanskrit 
original  text.  "  See  footnote  9. 


80  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

Verse  8.  Since  none  is  equal  to  thee,  of  a  superior  what  need  to  speak  ?  Even 
inferiority  by  a  slight  difference  from  thee  there  is  none. 

Verse  9.  So  then,  with  whom  can  I  compare  thee  ?     Incomparable  art  thou, 

0  Guide.^     O  thou  who  has  left  behind  the  j)ossibility  of  comparison,  to  thee,  the 
Incomparable,  hail ! 

Verse  10.  Hence,  though  other  individuals  may  have  won  the  same  liberation, 
(yet)  by  reason  of  thy  unequalled  Buddha-conditions,  the  distance  (between  thee  and 
them)  is  altogether  great. 

Verse  11.  If  merely  by  reason  of  similarity  in  void  there  be  (thought  to  be)  no 
superiority,  one  might  (as  well)  compare  a  minute  hair-cavity  to  the  heaven's  vault. 

Verse  12.  The  incomputable  who  can  compute  ?    [Remainder  lost.] 

No.  2.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  1495^  (Plate  III,  No.  3,  Obverse). 

This  fragment  measures  165  x  82  mm.  (or  6|  X  3|-  inches).  A  large  portion  of  the 
folio,  about  two-thirds,  is  missing  on  the  left  side,  carrying  with  it  the  folio-number. 
The  writing,  five  lines  on  each  page,  is  in  Slanting  Gupta  characters,  very  well  done 
and  well  preserved.  The  extant  lines  comprise  15-18  aksaras.  As  the  text  is 
written  in  slokas  of  32  aksaras  each,  it  can  easily  be  calculated  that,  when  complete, 
there  must  have  been  about  42-44  aksaras  on  each  line  ;  and  as  on  the  average 
three  aksaras  go  to  25  mm.,  or  an  inch,  it  follows  that  about  200  mm.,  or  8  inches 
are  broken  off.  The  folio,  in  its  entire  state,  accordingly,  must  have  measured  about 
365  mm.,  or  about  14-2  inches. 

The  text,^  together  with  the  conjectural  complements,  reads  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  X1XXXXO--X  tvadvdda-paravddayoh  31  Svarga-narakayor  n^aiva^,'!,  nasndha- 

ptitimuktayoh  ^  vidiiram  ^  antaram  ya- 

2  d  dhi  tvadvada-paruvadayoh  32  xxxxv       -xxxxxv      ^  xS  •>  vvakhyatam 

antaram  tena  tvadvada-paraA^adayoh 

3  55XXXX../         .xxxxxw-^x.N  tad^uftam-ddhamat^ensi  tadvada-para- 

vadayoh  34  AsampradharyarQ  e- 

"  The  play  on  the  words  upanaydmi,  anwpaneyo,  and  nay  aha  in  verse  9  is  hardly 
translatable.  An  attempt  to  do  so  has  been  made  with  the  pun  on  drabhya  and  drabhyate 
in  verse  2. 

*  An  attempt  has  been  made  by  Dr.  Thomas  and  myself  to  supply  ooDJecturally  such 
portions  of  the  text,  outside  the  fragment,  as  were  more  or  less  readily  suggested  by  the 
Tibetan  literal  translation.     These  are  printed  in  small  italic  type. 

''  Eead  putimuktayoh. 

'  Note  the  different  form  of  long  u  in  the  syllables  ^m  and  du. 


CATUHSATAKA  STOTEA  81 

4  vf'dsti    ydvad    rimukti-jivayoh  '^  tdvad    erfintaram    vlra    tvadvdda-paravddw^. 

yoh  35  Yat  pravrtti-nivrtyor*  yat  samklesa-vyavadana- 

5  yoh  •^  tad    ev-fdsty    antaram    vlra    tvadvdda-paravddayoh    36    Tathdtvam    etad 

ev^uMifh  mosa-dharmah  sa  kevala*  •  kim  anyad  astu  nanatvaiii 

Reverse. 

1  timdvdd't-paravddayoh   37  Punydya  kevalam  c^aitat  tat  tu  nirodha-kdranam  •^ 

i'«^;ni«trat«istu  k«^fo  'nya  tvadvada-paravadayoh 

2  38  Etena  dosa-lipto  'sii  visuddhim  tena  gacchati  "^  etad  ev<^dntaT^rSi[ni]  natha 

tvadvada-paravadayoh  39  Asat-prala- 

3  pa  etad  dki  kevalam  tat  subhdsitam  ^xxxx^  —  x^ca   ,d(w)ada-paravadayoh 

40  II  Varnarba-varne  Baddha-stotre 

4  xxxxxxxx  vdma  sastho  ^dhydyah  II  Pravrttau  canivrt^fmt  ca  prakrtir  jas'ato 

'sya  ya  •^  yam  sarve  n«ativa- 

5  rtante      sattva-lokdh      sa-devakdh    1     xxxxo-       x       xxxxu       ^xrv  pisad- 

dharma-savitad  "  dharma-savitri  samprakasita  [5] 

TRANSLATION.' 

[Obv.]  Verse  32.  'Neither  betiveeji  heaven  and  hell,  nor  between  ambrosia  and  the 
foul  discharges  (of  the  body),  is  there  such  a  wide  difference  as  between  thy  teaching  and 
the  ie  (chiiiff  of  others. 

V.  33.  Tliis  has  for  its  essence  only  iroi'ds ;  that  has  both  tvords  and  meaning  :  thus  may 
be  expressed  the  difference  between  thy  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others. 

V.  34.  What  difference  there  is  between  thee,  0  Sugata,  and  those  teachers,  tliat,  in  high 
and  low  respects,  there  is  between  thy  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others. 

V.  35.  Inconceivable,  mdeed,  as  is  the  difference  between  deliverance  and  (mundane) 
life,  even  such  is  the  difference,  0  hero,  between  thy  teaching  and  the  teaciiing  of  others. 

V.  36.  What  difference  there  is  between  worldliness  and  unworldliness,  what 
between  moral  evil  and  purification  :  that  same  difference  there  is,  0  hero,  betioeen  thy 
teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others. 

V.  37.  Tliat  is  pnrely  truth,  this  is  only  the  design  of  a  deceiver :  what  other 
difference  could  there  be  between  thy  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others? 

*  Eead  nivrttyor.  ^  Bead  kevcdah.  ^  See  footnote  8,  p.  82. 

'  The  translation  follows  quite  closely  the  Tibetan  version  furnished  hj  Dr.  Thomas. 
Those  portions,  of  which  the  Sanskrit  text  is  wanting  in  the  fragment,  are  printed  in  small 
italic  type. 

678  G 


82  MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 

Y.  38.  l%at  is  solely  for  relir/ious  merit ;  hut  this  is  cause  of  impediment :  what  other 
inequality  than  this  could  there  be  between  thy  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others  ? 

V.  39.  Bij  this  one  is  smeared  with  iltfleinent ;  hy  that  one  attains  purity  :  that,  O  Lord, 
indeed,  is  the  difference  between  thy  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others. 

V.  40.  Idle  talk  is  this  verily ;  only  that  is  well-said :  therefore,  certainly  might  and  not- 
mii/ht  are  the  marks  of  thy  teaching  and  the  teaching  of  others. 

In  the  hymn  to  Buddha  (called) '  The  Praise  of  the  Praiseworthy  ',  this  is  the  sixth 
chapternamed  'the  Celebration  of  Indisputability'. 

Verse  1.  In  regard  to  u-orldly  life  and  unworldly^  that  which  is  the  nature  of  this 
world,  that  from  which  all  the  worlds  of  limng  beings,  together  with  the  gods,  cannot  escape  ; 

Y.  2.  Conformable  and  not  conformable,  of  twelve  words,  {and)two  syllables  :  that,  O  Sun  of 
the  Good  Law,  is  proclaimed  as  the  Savitri  ^  of  the  Law. 

No.  3.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  1493^5  (Plate  III,  No.  4,  Eeverse). 

The  case  of  this  fragment  is  similar  to  that  of  No.  2,  No.  149^^.  The  fragment 
measures  154  x  60  mm.  (or  6  x  2f  inches).  About  two-thirds  of  the  folio  are  broken  off 
on  the  left  side.  There  are  five  lines  on  either  page  in  well- written  and  well-preserved 
Slanting  Gupta  characters,  17-19  aksaras  on  each  line.  The  text  being  in  slokas, 
and  three  aksaras  going  to  25  mm.  (or  one  inch),  it  follows  that  a  complete  line 
would  comprise  about  42-44  aksaras,  and  that  the  folio,  when  entire,  must  have 
measured  about  360  mm.  or  14  inches. 


'  The  original  text  has  "samtaddharmcP,  which  yields  no  sense  ;  nor  is  the  Tibetan 
sufficiently  perspicuous  at  this  place.  There  is  obvious])-  some  clerical  error  in  the  text. 
I  propose  to  emend  °savitar  (voc.  sing.)  dharnoaP,  and  so  I  translate.  Dr.  Thomas 
prefers  to  emend  savitur  (gen.  sing.),  rendering  the  Tibetan  version  doubtfully :  '  Con- 
formable and  not  conformable  (equal  and  non-equal?  i.e.  equal  in  meaning,  not  equal 
in  sound),  (instead)  of  twelve  words  two  syllables,  that  is  taught  as  the  proper  way 
of  worshipping  the  sun  in  regard  to  the  sun  of  the  good  religion.' — The  phrase 
dhanna-savilri  would  seem  to  refer  to  some  formula  of  the  Buddhists.  See  footnote  2 
in  the  Introduction  to  the  Suttanipata  in  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol.  x,  p.  xiii.  The 
Buddhists  took  their  formula  of  the  Triiarana  (Mahavagga,  I,  38,  2,  in  Yinayapitaka,  vol.  i, 
jD.  69,  buddJiam  saranam  gacehami  dhatnmam  sa°  ga°  samgham  sa°  ga°)  to  be  the  counter- 
part of  the  Brahmanist  Savilri  (or  Gayatri)  which  consists  of  three  clauses  {tri-pada)  and 
twenty-four  syllables  {caturvimiad-ahsara)  (SBE.,  vol.  x,  p.  75,  verse  456).  Matricheta, 
here,  seems  to  describe  the  Buddhist  dharma-sdvitrl  as  consisting  of  twelve  words  {dvadaia- 
pada)  and  two  syllables  {dvy-aksara).  The  phrase  '  two  sjdlables  '  might  refer  to  dharma, 
but  the  Buddhist  formula  in  question  comprises  only  nine  words,  unless  a  fourth  clause  (say 
tiratanaih  sa°  ga°)  be  added.  There  is  also  the  other  well-known  Buddhist  formula,  as  given 
in  ]Mahavaggaj  I,  23,  5  (vol.  i,  pp.  40,  41),  ye  dhamnia,  hetuppahliavd  tesam  hetutii  tathdgato 
aha  tesanca  yo  nirodhd  evamvadi  mahdsamano,  which  does  indeed  yield  twelve  words,  but 
only  if  sandhi  is  disregarded  in  tesanca. 


CATUH^ATAKA  STOTEA  SS 

The  text  ^  reads  as  follows : — 


Obverse. 

-■ 


1   xxxx  >^  — X    xxxx  o  _  ^xr»xxxx^  -  -^te  tvajy  api   pralirtam    yaya/i 


6  Aho  sa(7Ji)sara-dfatra- 

2  tmyamaho  nirvana-sdntatd  »n  ndtho  'pi  san  tatra  gatah  kcn-wn-dtind  tvayd  s«f/rQk 

7  iV*«nagata-bhayam  rn'oktam  na  netri  iia  pravartita  •-  na 

3  samsdras    ca    gamito   n-^dbhayatvaih   caturvidhah  8  Na  Mahdkasyap-Aiianda-\} 

pramuA:/ia  ^  /i'r^«-buddhayah  guptaye  na  samadistab  ka- 

4  xxxv^-vxS  Lok-afka-caJcsur  vimalo  yadi  syds  tvam  nimilita/i^^  '^  saty  ^loko  " 

'pi  loko  'yam  tamas^6v«avagunthita  ^  10 

5  xxxx-j      -X   xxxx.^  -  ox  .^  xxxxu  -  -X  XXXX   /r«~s  d-fwu'asa ^   11   Tvad-rfce 

tu  Jagamnatba  gatam  artb-ataram 

Eeverse. 

1  satyam  f^  gaia-candra      iv<-dkdse     graha-tdra-gan-dmkite     12   xxxxu  -  ~x  prth, 

yamana-gun-awjasah  janita-vrana-dosasya  kalp-aw/a 

2  xo      ux   13  xxxx--  -  -X    xxxxo  -  wx  rs  xgda''-nagasva  sarasab   srir   iv<; 

acira-na^inih  14 

3  Khadg-dpama-samsdre    kasya    vai    na    bhaved    bhayam  "^  dhydyatdiii   parinirv%\ 

anaiii  Buddbanam  ^  va^a-vartinam  iti  15  ii  Varnarba-varne 

4  Buddha-stotre  xxxxxxxx  ndma  dvddasamo  'dhydyah  sal-^maptas  ca^  "^  Catuh- 

^atakam^  krtir  acarya-bbadanta-Ma- 

5  trcetasya  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx||x'pai  yka  tsi  X  pa-na-kti  jdb  rne  se(»() 

a  ka  l/i-'a  :  n      ii 

TRANSLATION.^ 

[Obv.l  Verse  7.  Ah. !  the  misery  of  Saiiisara  (mundane  existence)  !  Ah !  the 
peace  of  Ninx'ina  !  though  he  is  a  lord,  he  went  there  {i.e.  into  Sathsdra),  having  a  soul  of  j)ity 
lil-e  thine. 

^  See  footnote  1,  p.  80.    For  clerical  errors,  see  footnotes  2-6. 

^  The  original  omits  the  visarga ;  read  -pramuhhah,  avagunthitah,  aurasdh. 

'  Eead  dlohe. 

*  Apparently  clerical  error  for  ta,  for  the  Tibetan  translation  suggests  gata-nagasya. 

^  Eead  Buddhdnaiii. 

"  Eead  samaptaii  ca  catuMataham,  transferring  the  interpunction  to  adhyayah. 

'  The  following  remark  is  not  in  Sanskrit,  bat  in  Kuchean. 

«  See  footnote  7,  p.  81. 

g2 


84  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

Averse  8.  Future  fears  were  certainly  told  ;  guidance  was  certainly  promoted  : 

mundane  existence  of  four  kinds"  was  certainly  made  to  attain  fearlessness. 

Verse  9.  Though  MahakaStjapa,  Anauda,  and  others,  men  of  enlightened  ^^  mind, 
were  certainly  appointed  for  the  protection  of  this  path  ; 

Verse  10,  if  thou,  the  sole  eye  of  the  world,  the  pure  one,  he  closed,  this  world,  though 
there  be  light,  is  verily  veiled  in  darkness. 

Verse  11.  0  Sugata,  though  there  he  this  Law  of  the  Sugata;  though  there  he  thy  own 
sons,  excellent  sons,  whether  teachers  or  not-teachers  ;  ^^ 

Verse  12.  3'et  without  thee,  O  Lord  of  the  world,  the  true  ferry  of  the  meaning 
(i.  e.  interpretation  of  the  Law)  is  gone,  ju.^t  as  when  the  sky,  marked  ivifJi  planets  and 
stars,  is  without  the  moon. 

Verse  13.^^ of  one  bright  with  pleasing  qualities ;  of  one  in  whom  the 

evil  of  a  wound  has  arisen 

A'^erse  14.  //  tlwu  art  not  there,  this  excellent  teaching  is  irifhout  essence,  just  as  the 
beauty  of  a  pool,  from  which  its  Naga  lias  departed,  is  not  long  in  perishing. 

Verse  15.  IJ'ho  is  not  afraid  of  mundane  existence,  which  is  like  a  sword,  when  the 
Buddhas  who  are  endowed  with  power  hare  thought  of  deliverance  from  it. 

In  the  hymn  to  Buddha,  (called)  'the  Praise  of  the  Praiseworthy',  this  is  the  twelfth 
chapter,  named  'the  Celehrntioii  of  the  Saving  from  Transitory  Existence'.  Here  also  ends 
the  Chatuhsataka  (or  the  400-versed)  poetic  composition  of  the  Acharya,  the  revered 
Matricheta 

"  Perhaps  referring  to  the  four  sights  met  by  the  young  Gautama,  of  an  old  man, 
a  sick  man,  a  dead  body,  a  monk. 

^^  The  Tibetan  version  has  '  purified  mind '  [Dr.  Thomas].  This  points  to  a  reading 
krta-Suddhayah  in  the  original  Sanskrit. 

"  The  reference  apparently  is  to  not-teaching  Pratyekabuddhas,  and  teaching  Buddhas. 

'^  The  Tibetan  version  transposes  verses  13  and  14.  It  is  also  not  sufficiently 
perspicuous  to  assist  in  understanding  the  original  text  [Dr.  Thomas]. 

ADDITIONAL  NOTE  (16th  August,  1915). 

The  surmise,  expressed  on  p.  2,  regarding  the  find -place  of  Hoernle  MS.  150™ 
has  now  been  fully  proved  to  be  true.  While  registering  and  writing  descriptive  slips  of 
the  manuscript  fragments  of  the  collection  of  Sir  A.  Stein's  second  expedition,  I  discovered 
another  complete  folio,  No.  4,  of  the  identical  pothi  of  the  ilahapratyahgira  DharanI  (Stein 
Coll.,  Kha.  i.  156,  Eeg.  No.  319),  of  which  fol.  6  is  edited  on  p.  52,  and  of  which  fol.  4 
was  excavated  by  Sir  A.  Stein  on  the  site  of  Khadalik.  That  site  is,  thus,  conclusively 
proved  to  be  the  find-place  of  fol.  6. 


MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

Edited  by  Dr.  F.  W.  Thomas 

[The  manuscript  fragments  dealt  with  in  this  section  belong  to  three  con- 
signments, marked  by  me  Nos.  142,  143-143  a,  144  respectively,  transmitted  by 
Lieutenant- Colonel  P.  J.  Miles^  acting  temporarily  as  '  Special  Assistant  for  Chinese 
Affairs  at  Kashgar',  to  the  Government  of  India  in  Simla,  whence  they  were 
forwarded  to  me  in  1903-4. 

The  letters  of  the  Government  of  India  with  reference  to  these  consignments 
stated  that  the  manuscript  fragments  were  '  purchased ',  or  '  obtained ',  from 
Badruddin,  Aksakal  at  Khotan,  and  they  are  said  to  have  been  found  in  the  Takla 
Makan  Desert,  not  far  from  Khotan.  In  no  case  is  the  exact  locality  of  the  find 
mentioned ;  but  from  the  remarks  made  by  Sir  Anrel  Stein  in  his  Ruins  of  Desert 
Cathay,  vol.  i,  pp.  236-7,  it  appears  to  be  probable  that  they,  like  the  one  mentioned 
on  p.  2,  belong  to  the  proceeds  of  '  the  diggings  carried  on  by  a  certain  Mullah 
Khwajah  at  the  ruined  site  of  Khadalik  in  the  vicinity  of  Domoko  oasis '.  Those 
diggings  had  been  '  intermittingly  carried  on  by  the  Mullah  for  the  last  three  years 
or  so '  before  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  visit  to  Khadalik  in  September  1906.  Their  object 
was  to  provide  him  with  the  means  of  paying  off  his  arrears  of  revenue  due  to  the 
Chinese  Government,  and  for  that  purpose  housed  to  sell  his  finds  of  manuscript 
frao-ments  in  Khotan  to  Badruddin  Khan.  From  the  latter  they  passed  on  into  the 
hands  of  the  British  Agency  in  Kashgar. — R.  H.] 

All  the  Sutras  of  which  fragments  are  here  edited  belong  to  the  Mahayana 
division  of  Buddhists.     They  are  the  following  : — 

(1)  Anantamukha  Dharani.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  144,  SA.  1  (Inset). 

(3)  Bhadrapala  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  3. 

(3)  Mahaparinirvuna  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  4  (PL  XXI,  No.  2). 

(4)  Unidentified  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  144,  SA.  5  (PI.  XX,  No.  5). 

(5)  Ratnadhvaja  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  7  (PL  XX,  No.  6). 

(6)  Candragarbha  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143  a,  SA.  10  (PL  XX,  No.  1). 

(7)  Suvarnaprabhasottama   Sutra.       Hoernle  MSS.,    No.    143  a,   SB.   9,    and 

No.  143,  SA.  16  (PL  XXI,  No.  3). 

(8)  Eatnarasi  Sfitra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  17  (PL  IV,  No.  3). 


86  MISCELLANEOUS   FKAGMENTS 

(9)  Unidentified  Sutra.     Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143  a,  SB.  2  (PI.  XX,  No.  3). 
(10)  Suramgama-samadhi    Sutra.      Hoernle   MS.,   No.   144,  SB.  87  (PI.  XX 
No.  4). 

The  notes  are  not  at  all  intended  as  a  complete  commentary,  but  deal  merely 
with  the  most  olivious  problems.  Those  to  which  L.  is  attached  are  due  to  Professor 
Leumann,  to  whom  I  am  indebted  also  for  a  considerable  number  of  corrections 
in  the  readings,  and  for  the  valuable  assistance  of  Dr.  Watanabe.  The  English 
translations,  and  also  a  part  of  the  notes,  have  been  supplied  by  Dr.  Hoernle,  and  he 
moreover  has  kindly  revised  the  texts  and  introductions,  and  given  to  them  their 
present  form.  It  will  therefore  be  seen  that  the  parts  of  this  contribution  for  which 
I  could  not  claim  the  sole  responsibility  iifclude  the  introductions,  the  texts,  and  the 
notes :  in  the  translation  I  have  co-operated  for  the  most  part  merely  by  way  of 
suggestion. 

1.  ANANTAMUKHA  DHAEANI 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  144,  SA.  1.    (Reverse.) 

This  is  a  complete  folio  of  a  miniature  pothi  (Fig.  1),  measuring  122  X  29  mm. 
(or  4y^x  1-|  inches).  The  string-hole  is  in  the  middle  of  the  left  half,  at  27  mm. 
from  the  left  edge.  There  are  three  lines  to  the  page,  written  in  very  early  Upright 
Gupta  characters,  of  small  size,  nearly  ever^'where  legible,  except  in  a  few  places 
where  some  letters  are  slightly  sand-rubbed.  The  folio  number  4,  only  faintly  visible, 
stands  on  the  left  margin  of  the  obverse  side,  facing  the  second  line  of  writing. 


Fig.  1 

The  text  has  been  identified  by  Professor  Watanabe  as  part  of  the  Ananta- 
mukha  DharanT,  of  which  the  Chinese  Tripitaka  includes  eight  translations  (Nanjio, 
Nos.  353-60),  the  earliest.  No.  355,  being  by  C'Chien,  wbose  date  is  a.d.  222-80. 


ANANTAMUKHA  DHARANI  87 

The  translation  (No.  360)  exhibits  the  passage  in  xxvii.  9,  fol.  19  a  of  the  Tokyo 
edition  of  the  Tripitaka.     The  Tibetan  version,  which  is  found  in  the  Bkah-hgynr, 
Mdo.  g,  fol.  475  a~h,  does  not  present  any  difierences  of  reading. 
The  text  of  the  folio  reads  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  dclhy-a?*/iiiYtTOs^-areni<4bhisariiskrtena   yavad-eva-bhiksavo  =  janapada- 

prade^e- 
3  .s^rtpani^^raya  ^  viharanti  tan  sarvan  mahavane  kutagara-^ala- 
3  yam  samnipatayeyam-ath^4y\isman«Chariputras  ((fja^/iarupam  rddhy-a- 

Reverse. 

1  bhisaihskaram    abhisamskarod  *  yatharupena   rddhy  ^-abhisaiiiskaren* 

abh  isamskrtena 
3  yava(?-eva-bhiksavo  2  janapada-pradesesu  viharaiiiti  -  tan  sarvan  ma- 
3  havane  kutagara-salayam  saiiinipatayamasa-tena  ca  samayena 

TRANSLATION. 

[Obv.]  ....  by  the  performance  of  a  feat  of  supernatural  power,  as  many 
monks  as  there  are  living  in  the  parts  of  the  country  around,  them  all  I  wish  to 
bring  together  in  the  hall  of  the  Mahavana  pagoda.  Then  the  venerable  Saripntra 
performed  such  [Rev.]  a  feat  of  supernatural  power  as  that  by  the  performance  of 
that  feat  of  supernatural  power,  as  many  monks  as  were  residing  in  the  parts  of  the 
country  around,  them  all  he  brought  together  in  the  hall  of  the  Mahavana  pagoda. 
And  at  that  time 

^  For  the  phrase  rddhy-ahlmaihuMra,  'miracle'  (before  which  sn-pfly yat/idrilpena), 
see  Divyavadana  (Index)  ;  also  Childers'  Pali  Dictionary,  s.v.  abhisaniskdra,  and 
elsewhere. 

^  Ydvad-=ydvantah  (L.).  [Similar  examples  of  the  interpolation  oi  era  within  a 
compound  [ydvad-hhiksavo),  as  also  of  atha,  ca,  caiva,  tathalva,  si/dt,  occur  not  in- 
frequently in  the  Navamtaka  treatise  of  the  Bower  MS. — R.  H.] 

f  i(pa)mh-dT/a  =  Va\\  upanissdya,  cf.  Divyavadana,  upaiiiiritya  viharanti  (Index), 
and  Siksasamuccaya,  p.  32,  1.  4,  upanisraya-vilidrino. 

■*  abhisamskarod  =abhigamakarod  (L.). 

'  Note  the  peculiar  form  of  the  initial  vowel  r.  [Precisely  the  same  peculiar 
form  occurs  in  the  Bower  MS.,  Part  IV;  see  Introduction,  p.  xxvi.  Table  of 
Alphabet.— R.  H.] 


88  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 


2.  BHADRAPALA  SUTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  3. 

This  is  a  practically  complete  folio,  measuring  about  393  x  118  mm.  (or 
15J  X  4-|-  inches).  The  right-hand  half,  however,  has  suffered  damage  and  loss  of 
textj  from  which  even  the  left  has  not  been  entirely  free.  The  latter  shows  the 
customary  hole  for  the  string  within  a  circle  of  about  27  mm.  (or  Ijg  inches) 
diameter,  and  at  the  distance  of  103  mm.  (or  3f  inches)  from  the  left  edge.  The 
folio  has  practically  nothing  of  the  usual  margins  on  the  left  and  right ;  and  its 
number,  28,  now  rather  defaced,  is  placed  at  the  left  edge  of  the  reverse  side.  The 
paper  is  soft,  and  has  a  brownish  colour.  There  are  ten  lines  of  writing  on  the 
page,  in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  originally  good,  but  now  much  defaced  by 
sand-rubbing,  especially  on  the  extreme  right  quarter  of  both  sides,  where  some 
of  the  letters  have  become  entirely  illegible. 

The  text  has  been  identified  by  Dr.  Watanabe  as  from  the  Bhadrapala  Sutra 
(Nanjio,  Nos.  73,  75,  76).  In  Jiianagupta's  translation  (No.  75)  it  corresponds  to 
III.  9,  fol.  13  b^'^-U  a^^  of  the  Tokyo  edition  of  the  Tripitaka. 

The  test  ^  of  the  folio  reads  as  follows  : — 

'  [The  composition  of  the  text  exhibits  all  the  irregularities  which  usually  mark 
the  early  Buddhist  'mixed  Sanskrit '.  Thus  we  have,  e.g.,  the  double  sandhi  in  deviqii, 
iiugdpi,  &c.  (obv.  1.  Iff,  i.e.  devuh  api=clevd  api^devdpi,  &c.)  ;  modified  spelling  in 
krtva,  for  l-rlva  (rev.  11.  5,  8)  ;  kantdra,  for  kdnfdra  (rev.  1.  7) ;  cahi-enilnya,  for 
ctikmindrvja  (rev.  1.  2;  also  in  No.  7  a^',  p.  110)  ;  sing,  for  plur.,  in  manusi/a  iox 
manti.ii/d  (rev.  1.  2) ;  nominal  for  pronom.  declension  in  tdydm,  for  tasi/di'ii  (obv.  1.  7) ; 
masc.  for  neut.  in  sutrd,  for  mt.rdni  (rev.  1.  10),  vdkyah,  for  vdki/aiU  (rev.  1.  3);  neut.  for 
masc.  in  ydvanli  (rev.  1.  9) ;  omission  of  inflexion  in  prdvartta  (obv.  1.  10,  rev.  1.  7), 
daurvanviika  (rev.  ].  3),  &c.;  omission  of  anusvara  in  Alnfu,  for  mnldi'n  (obv.  1.  8), 
rdjdiM  and  paresa  (rev.  1.  7),  &e. ;  use  of  Prakrit  (or  Pali)  forms  in  siqAiia  for  svajma 
(oljv.  1.  4)  ;  mgaieki  for  f^iujataili  ;  rdUkd  for  vdlnkd  (rev.  1.  8)  ;  kdyt/xmi{i}/),  for  kdye 
(rev.  11.  3,  9);  imam,  for  imdih  (obv.  1.  8),  similarly  rfa  [flai'ii),  for  rf'7w  (rev.  11.  3,  4); 
yaheda,  for  yathexta  (rev.  1.  5) ;  kaddci,  for  kaddcit  (rev.  1.  6) ;  rdjdiiii,  for  rdjndi'n 
(rev.  1.  7),  &e. ;  new  or  rare  words  prdrartia,  apparently  for  jmvvarfa  (vev.  11.  4,  5, 
7j  8),  &ho  prdvartlayanf a  (rev.  1.  8).  See  also  below,  nptes  2,  6,  7.  Semi-prakriticisms 
are  parikirtlayhyavi.  for  Prak.  °»sam  and  Skr.  °sye  (obv.  1.  8),  and  parem  for  Pali 
paremi'ii,  Skr.  paremiU  (rev.  II.  6,  7);  liadi  (rev.  1.  10),  for  Ski-,  loc.  haste  (cf  lokl  in 
No.  3,  obv.  1.  5).  Some  other  irregularities  are  scribal  errors,  such  as,  obv.  1.  5, 
mljdkd  for  sabdd,  and  bodhlm  sya  for  hod/iisatras  I  any  a  ;  obv.  1.  10,  prafydrthikd  for 
pratyaf  ;  rev.  1.  1,  vydgrds  for  lydgJirds  ;  1.  3,  jdihhi,  for  jCitti. ;  1.  10,  susfu/d  for  sui'ii', 
and  piiraislhapitvd  for  puraslhdpayilrd.  Single  dot  and  double  dot,  as  marks  of 
punctuation,  occur  in  obv.  11.  2  and  4. — R.  H.] 


BHADRAPALA  SUTRA  80 

Obverse. 

1  {tvasya)   de{v^d)])i  raksam   havonti   nag^ipi   jSiJis^dfi   gandharvb*4pi 

k{in7ia)r^dpi  mahorag^^api  raJcsam  Jcaronti  manusy^^p  amanusi/^^a})! 
Sakro  fi  BraJim^a^pi  catvaro  pi  majharajgawa||  bu- 

2  ddh«4pi  hhaga\a,xita,s  tasya,  bodhisatvasya  raksam  ^aronti  ye  te  s.sam- 

kh(2/)eyasu  loka-dhatusu  •  punar  aparam  grha^ate  {tasya  hodhisa- 
tvasya)  d(e)v«api  (xxxxj  ksanti  :  nag^lpi 

3  y«As*dpi  A/nnar#api  mah6rag«4pi  manusy^api  amanusy*ap^  Sakkro  ^ 

pi    Brahmi^^pi    catvaro  pi  maharajana  [tasya  bodhisatvasya^x>^xx 
xxxxj  buddh^dpi  h]ia{ga)vanta,  ta- 

4  sya  Jodhisatvasy^intomasa/i^  supin-antara-gatasy*4pi  mukha-darsanam 

nama-pari^-irt^ana  ca  karonti  buddha-dljarmarii  {c^dsya  h-(2va)yai-iti 
tasya  bodhisatvasya  •  {ini)nar  aj^ararh  ((/f/^fOB^^^'^B  tasi/a 

5  bodhisatvasya  armddist#4pprati]abdha^  dharma-sabdha   grotr-avatM- 

sam  agacchanti  ppratilabhati  ^  ca  sa  bodhisa  sya^  sama(c7/jer  ami)- 
bhavena  tain  {dharmam)  irn{oii  kal^am)  apij  afpiaih 

6  grhapate    tasya  bodhisatvasya   guna-parikirttanaiii    kuryyam\   imam 

sama,dhi  dharayan^asya  na  ca  tes«  gtiJia,nd{m  i)aryyamta)m  sakyam. 
^antuiii  mama  va  {p7'atibhana)sja  kah*  pra[va-] 

7  do  yo  bof^/iisatval'  imain  samadhiiii  pratilabhitva  tathatvaya  sikseya 

tatha^yaya  pra^/padyeya  atha  hhugaivan  ta)yam '  (vela)yam  imd  gdtJi^ 
Mhbabhasit\''  ][  yo  bodhiso,|$/i-'a  i- 

8  )}iam  uddiseyil  minddhi  santa  sugatehi  desiifcwu  tasy^^nusa/wsa  ^  jjrtri- 

^  [The  duplication  of  I;  preceding  r  in  obv.,  1.  3,  sakkro,  and  similarly  of 7;  in  appra- 
tilabdhd  a-adLppratUahJiafi^  1.  5,  may  be  noted.  See  "Whitney's  Skr.  Gr.,  §  229,  p.  72. 
It  occurs  only  in  these  three  instances.  Thus  we  have,  obv.  1.  1,  mkro,  11.  6,  7 ,prati', 
rev.  11.  3,  9,  kramanti,  &c.  "When  following  r,  the  consonant  is  usually  doubled  ;  but 
dharma  is  always  spelled  with  a  single  m,  obv.  11.  4,  5,  rev.  1.  6  ;  and  v  is  duplicated 
by  b,  as  in  obv.  1.  1,  gandharvhd,  1.  9,  nirvhisdh,  rev.  1.  3,  danriharnnika.  The  same 
phenomena  may  be  observed  in  the  Bower  MS.,  Introd.,  II,  3,  p.  Ixxiii. — R.  H.] 

^  Antamamh=anta^ah,  '  even  ',  as  in  Mahavastu  (Index)  and  Pali  antamaso. 

■*  Here,  in  1.  8,  and  in  rev.  1.  3,  we  have  the  irpadhmaniya,  on  the  top  of/),  in 
the  form  of  a  cross  within  a  ciiclet  ®.  In  rev.  11.  5  and  8,  the  jihvarauliya,  set  upon 
h\  in  the  form,  apparently,  of  two  curves  8. 

^  Read  ddhyabhd.fit,  and  see  footnote  15  on  p.  114. 

^  Ta,'<y-d,numi'iisd\j'n\  ace.  s^ing.  feminine,  of  unnmm-sd  (with  anusvara  dropped,  see 
footnote  1), '  benediction  ',  '  blessing ',  as  in  Mahavastu,  vol.  ii,  p.  373,  1.  18.  The  Pali 


90  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

kirttayi.9_*/a/H,  GahgaijHva''  valiA;a  *  \_enu  grhnalto  xxxx{gnih  hra-) 
X  tena  sastram  tia  t'dsya  {ghor)dli*  parijxx 

9  ryyah  na  tasya  rajana  karonti  viprivaiii  vo  uddiseya^i  imafn  samadhi 

2  Asi-vifiii  ghora-visa  mahaubhaysi,  xexxxxexx  bhavanti  nivvhisdii  na 
sukaro  heta-bhayam  J^xx 

10  {yasy^ciisa)  pravartta  bhavet  s&^mddhih  SpPrat^/arthik^^^sya   knjjitd 

bhaijdnak.^  mSinmi/a  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx  sahawti  ja||^«(  J^^J^ 
ai.sa  ])rsivm':)tta  bliavet  sama- 

E,evers8. 

1  dh'{h)   4    Aranyaka   vyada-7)ir||^«    ;<r|/r(nta    simhas   ca   vyagrds'^  ca 

fr[l-d)  srgalah  te  tasga  rariydya  (^xx^xxx  lid  xxxxxxxx  na^  ca  5 
Jy«L  :/.'.s-=(epi  ca  xxx'  ,>.  xx 

2  jidJid  )/ianusya  hetenti  pradusta-cittah  te  fanija  tejena  bha vanti  jilimE 

yasy^iiisa  pravartta  bhavet  samacZ/z //i  [6'  Xa  fatuja  rogo  na  ca  (f\(iita- 
mijai  ca^lcAv-endri{ija)]i)  ^  tas//rt  na  jat?(  bha[§f5f/  nih- 

3  sista  vakyali^-*  pratibhanavcmto  ya  uddise  eta  samadhi  srestJuim  7  Na, 

has  the  masc.  dnisamso  with  an  initial  long  a,  and  this  Pali  form  appears  once  also 
in  ^Nfahavastu,  ii,  324,  1.  9  ;  so  does,  also  once,  ii,  372,  1.  16,  the  corresponding 
Sanskrit  form  (liitimi'n.m  ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  the  regular  Sanskrit  form  auiihi//so, 
with  initial  short «,  occurs  in  Mst.  ii,  81,  1.  2.  The  synonymous  word  daiixosti,  with 
initial  long  «,  occurs  in  Mahavastn,  ii,  323,  1.  21.  In  the  Siksasamuccaya  the 
masc.  occurs  once  with  a  short  a,  p.  124,  1.  2,  and  once  with  long  a  in  p.  121,  1.  2. 
But,  as  a  rule,  in  our  text  as  .well  as  in  others,  such  as  the  ]\Iahavastu,  Divyavadana, 
Siksasamuccaya,  the  word  is  found  always  in  sandhi,  which  does  not  allow  of  deter- 
mining the  quantity  of  the  initial  vowel.  The  truth  seems  to  be  that,  with  the 
masculine  form  of  the  word,  both  quantities  were  used  optionally  at  all  periods  of 
Buddhist  Sanskrit  writing,  the  initial  long  a  being  used  in  sympathy  with  the  Pali 
usage.  As  to  the  feminine  form  of  the  word,  there  exists  no  indisputable  case  of  the 
u.se  of  the  initial  long  d. 

"^  GarKjdyivdj  anomalous  doable  sandhi  (footnote  1)  for  (Jaii.gdy  iva  (i.e.  Gaiiydydli 
iva=^  Gaiujdijd  iva).  The  blundered  r«  of  ird  is  probably  due  to  the  following  vd  of 
mliM. 

*  Note  the  form  of  the  vowel  t,  which  is  restricted  to  the  aksara  It,  and  the 
attachment  of  the  superscript  r  (also  found  in  Sarada  and  Nepalese  ]MSS.)  to  the  side 
(not  at  the  top)  of  the  aksara  in  rf/ii  (obv.  1.  10),  which  has  been  observed  with  the 
letters  //i  (as  here,  and  in  No.  5,  obv.  1.  2),  dk  (No.  3,  obv.  1.  6,  rev.  1.  4,  and  No.  6,  rev. 
1.7),  (/  (No.  3,  rev.  1.  1 ,  No.  9,  obv.  1.  6,  and  No.  1 1,  obv.  1. 1),  v  and  i (No.  6,  obv.  11.  4,  9). 
SeePlate  XX,  No.  2*  (hirgaU,'^''^  marga.  [See  also  footnotes  4,  p.  168, 18, p.  183.— R.  H.] 


BHADEAPALA   SUTKA  91 

sa  kadacin  niraMivam'  na  durgatim  na  tasya  k{ayasm)i  lrama{nti) 
[roga\  na  tasya  daurvbamn^■ka'o  ja.m[tu  hlionti  ya  uddijgs'e  e- 

4  ta  samadhi  santam^  8  Deva  na  raksanti  tath^tCiva  naga  «Kmusya-naga 

atha  ?/fd-sa-mksasa/i  pradusta-ci«a  na  i}ra{bhonti)  [ba\dM.tnm  yasy^ 
•a\sa  frCivartta  Iha^wet  sa- 

5  madhih  9  De-y^asya  bhasanti  tath^aira  varnnam  manusya-naga  aAlia 

yaksa-raksasah   huddhdS  ca    {mmsanti)  ysihesta-2mtram  yah^  Irtva 
^xava^rtta  pa- 

6  resa  desayet^.  10  Na  tasya  bodhaya  kadaci  liaui  na  tasya  f//iarmesu 

kadaci  Z;amksa  {na  tasya  r;<)pena  samo  {hhave)ya  yaf^//  /(I'r- 

7  tva   pravartta   paresa   desayet^    11  Eajana  ksohhe   atha  f-atva-ksobhe 

fh(.r?)?j,iksa-kantara-bhaye     ujiasthite     na     tasya     ksolho     na     xxx 
lodhi  ya- 
H  h^Jtrfva  pravartta   paresa    desayet^   12   Marena   va   iatva    adhisthita 
hhaveyuh  na  tasya  {tra)so  na  ]_yi  ]o{ma-Jia)rsanirm  mucixi  xxxxx 
hhavanti  jpravartta- 

9  yantasya  imam  samdd\\mi  13  Yavanti^  kecit  pari/artti^a  ma^a  adinav- 

6pac/rava-samkilesah  (iia  tasya  kdyasm!)  hmnainti)  ete  (c?i')li^^'^B 
rx  na  {]3iirdna)hena 

10  14  Prasamsita  varnmta  sastuta^  ca  ^jurasthajjitt-d'^  ime  jestba-putrali 

yesam    ime    basi!i    z(f/«ra-sutra    gaccLanti   kale   cariywt?    xxx^^e   15 
^xj  ra 

TRANSLATION. 

[Obv.  1.  1.]  ....  of  the  Bodhisattva  the  Devas  also  undertake  the  piotection, 
also  the  Nagas,  also  the  Yakshas,  also  the  Gandharvas,  also  the  Kinnaras,  also  the 
Mahoragas  undertake  the  protection  ;  also  men,  also  not-men,  also  Sakra,  also 
Brahma,  also  the  four  Maharajas ;  also  [1.  2]  the  blessed  Buddhas  undertake  the 
protection  of  the  Bodhisattva,  as  many  of  them  as  there  are  in  the  innumerable 
world-systems.  Once  again,  O  householder,  of  that  Bodhisattva  the  Devas  also 
undertake  the  protection,  also  the  Nagas,  [1.  3]  also  the  Yakshas,  also  the  Kinnaras, 
also  the  MahoragaSj  also  men,  also  not-men,  also  Sakra,  also  Brahma,  also  the  four 
Maharajas  undertake  the  protection  of  that  Bodhisattva ;    also  finally  the  blessed 

'■•  Read  Nirai/aih. 

1"  Daurvharnnika,  '  bad  mark  ',  '  disgrace  ',  as  in  Divyavadana,  p.  411,  1.  14. 


92  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

Buddhas,  with  regard  to  that  [1.  4]  Bodhisattva,  even  when  he  is  gone  a-dreaming, 
show  their  faces  to  him  and  announce  their  names,  and  proclaim  the  Buddha-Law  to 
that  Bodhisattva.  Once  again,  O  householder,  as  to  that  [1.  5]  Bodhisattva,  the 
undeclared,  unobtained  words  of  the  noumenal  world  come  within  the  range  of  his 
ear,  and  that  Bodhisattva  obtains  them  and  hears  (about  the  things  of  the)  noumenal 
world  through  the  efficacy  of  that  Samadhi.  Through  a  Kalpa  period  also,  [1.  6] 
O  householder,  I  might  announce  the  excellences  of  that  Bodhisattva  who  holds  that 
Samadhi  ;  nor  is  it  possible  to  find  an  end  to  those  excellences,  while  what  utterance 
is  there  for  me  to  describe  how  a  Bodhisattva,  having  attained  that  Samadhi,  may 
learn  the  ultimate  nature  of  things  ^^,  and  may  enter  into  it  ?  Here  the  Blessed 
One  at  that  moment  spoke  the  following  Gatha  verses  :  — 

(I)  The  Bodhisattva  who  [1.  8]  may  exhibit  this  quiet  Samadhi,  shown  by  the 
Sugatas,  his  praises  I  shall  proclaim,  as  many  as  there  are  grains  of  sand  in  the 
Ganges  ; 

(2) ;    [1.  9]  nor  do  kings  act  unfriendly   (towards  him),  who  exhibits 

this  Samadhi. 

(3)  Snakes  with  dreadful  poison,  terrible become  innocuous,  nor  does 

a  hog  offer  any  risk  of  injury  to  him  [1.  10]  whose  Samadhi  is  in  progress. 

(4)  His  adversaries,  angry  and  terrifying  men are  overcome  certainly 

(by  him)  whose  Samadhi  is  in  progress. 

[Rev.]  (5)  Wild  animals,  beasts  of  prey,  lions  and  tigers,  and  wolves,  jackals, 
they  for  his  delectation  (serve  ?). 

(6)  (When) men  of  depraved  mind  are  intent  on  doing  injury,  the)' 

become  defeated  by  the  power  of  him  whose  Samadhi  should  be  in  progress. 

(7)  For  him  there  is  no  disease,  nor  obstacle ;  his  organ  of  sight  can  never  be 
destroyed ;  as  to  speech,  he  is  eloquent  who  exhibits  that  best  of  Samadhis. 

(8)  He  does  not  fall  into  hell  or  evil  birth  ;  nor  do  diseases  attack  his  body ; 
nor  does  disgrace  ever  attach  to  him  who  exhibits  that  quiet  Samadhi. 

(9)  (Though)  Devas  do  not  protect  him,  neither  Nagas  and  men ;  yet  Yakshas  and 
Rakshasas,  (if)  evil-minded,  are  not  able  to  harass  him  whose  Samadhi  is  in  progress. 

(10)  Devas  speak  his  praises,  so  also  men  and  Nagas;  also  Yakshas  and 
Rakshasas ;  and  the  Buddhas  praise  him  as  a  son  according  to  their  wish,  who 
keeping  [Samadhi]  in  progress  shows  it  to  others. 

(II)  As  to  his  insight  (into  the  absolute)  tbere  is  never  any  failing;  as  to  his 
conditions  (past^  present,  and  future)  there  is  never  any  doubt ;  as  to  his  form  there 
is  no  equal  to  him,  who  keeping  [Samadhi]  in  progress  shows  it  to  others. 

1^  TalJiaiia,  short  for  bJiuki-tatliaica  or  hhida-tulhatd,  the  absolute  or  ultimate 
nature  of  all  existence.  On  it,  and  on  Samadhi,  see  Suz.OMB.,  eh.  v;  also  Suz.AF., 
pp.  57,  59,  135,  139. 


BHADEAPALA  SUTEA  93 

(12)  When  among  kings  there  is  agitation,  aad  agitation  among  living  beings, 
when  danger  of  famine  or  difficult  I'oad  is  present,  there  is  no  agitation  in  him,  nor 
is  [affected]  the  Bodhi  of  him,  who  keeping  [Samadhi]  in  progress  shows  it  to  others. 

(13)  By  Mara  (or  death)  indeed  living  beings  may  be  subjected,  (but)  for  him 
there  is  no  terror,  nor  bristling  of  hair ;  [the  anxieties  are  removed  ?]  of  him  who 
has  this  Samadhi  in  progress. 

(14)  However  many  evils,  afflictions,  sufferings  have  been  mentioned  by  me, 
they  do  not  attack  his  bodj^, 

(15)  Praised,  lauded  and  celebrated,  having  set  [Samadhi]  before  them,  these 
eldest  sons  in  whose  hands  are  these  grand  Sutras  go  at  the  last 

3.  MAHAPARINIRVANA   SUTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  4.  (Plate  XXI,  No.  3,  Reverse.) 
This  is  a  practically  eoraplete  folio,  measuring  about  315  x  93  mm.  (or 
12|:  X  3-|  inches).  In  the  left  half  there  is  the  usual  string-hole,  surrounded  by 
a  circle  of  about  23  mm.  (or  -^u  inch)  in  diameter.  The  paper  is  discoloured  bj;-  age, 
and  round  the  edges  also  by  moisture.  The  folio  has  practically  no  margins.  Its 
number,  rather  worn,  appears  to  be  162,  and  stands  on  the  left  edge  of  the  obverse, 
facing  the  fourth  line  of  writing.  There  are  seven  lines  of  writing  on  the  page, 
in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  originally  good,  but  owing  to  wear  less  black  than 
usual,  and  in  places,  especially  on  the  reverse,  faint  and  illegible. 

The  text  has  been  identified  by  Dr.  Watanabe  as  from  the  Mahaparinirvana 

Sutra    (Nanjio,  Nos.    113-15,    120).     In    Dharmaraksha's    translation    (No.    113, 

A.D.  416-23)  the  passage  is  found  in  XI,  5,  fols.  49  i'"-50  a^  (Tokyo  edition) :  in  that 

of  Fa-hian  (No.  120,  A.  d.  417)  it  occurs  in  XI,  9,  fols.  35  i^^-36  a"'  (Tokyo  edition). 

The  text  ■■■  reads  as  follows : — 

^  [The  composition  of  this  fragmentary  text  is  disfigured  b}'  many  defects. 
There  are  also  numerous  scribal  errors,  which  are  noted  below.  Occasionally 
an  unsuccessful  attempt  at  correcting  such  errors  has  been  made  ;  see  notes  2  and  18. 
A  small  flat  curve  (--),  resembling  the  sign  for  the  numeral  one,  serves  for  various 
purposes.  It  regularly  represents  the  virdma,  and,  as  a  rule,  the  single  dot  of  the 
anusvara.  It  serves  also  as  a  mark  of  punctuation  in  cases  where  other  manuscripts 
have  a  single  dot  (thus  after  karaniya,  obv.  1.  1 ;  aha  sma,  obv.  1.  2,  &c.) ;  though  in 
some  places  it  seems  uncalled  for;  e.g.  obv.  11.  5  and  7.  The  visarga  is,  as  a  rule, 
omitted  altogether  (thus  karamya,  obv.  1.  1 ,  hodJiisafvai,  rev.  1.  4,  &c.) ;  but  it  occurs,  as 
the  usual  double  dot,  in  rev.  1.  5  (tathdgatah)  and  four  times  in  rev.  1.  7.  A  double 
bar  appears  twice  in  a  peculiar  large  form  to  mark  the  end  of  a  paragraph,  in  obv. 
11.  4  and  6  ;  also  in  the  fragment  No.  5,  obv.  1.  2  (PI.  XX,  No.  6).  Some  examples 
of  the  usual  grammatical  peculiarities  of  the  Buddhist  '  mixed  Sanskrit '  are  noticed 
below  in  the  notes. — R.  H.] 


94  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

Obverse. 

1  mahasutra()i()    tatbagata  -  garbha  -  samr/ijx/.Z;atvat  "^  ksipra(;ii)     stitra- 

stbanam  adhigaiitu-kamena  kula-putrena  va  kula-traya  ^  va  tatha- 
gafa-garhhe  'bbi^oga  karaniya^  -^  "'''^'^ 

2  ftha  sma«evam  eva''^  BliagavsiXi^^*  evam  evad  ^  Bhagavan^*  fetbagata- 

garbba-bbavanam  •>  yadyabam  ^  »^  paurusaiii  pravesita  ''-prabbavita  •^ 
j)rai\ho(lh  rtas  c^asmi  "^  aba  "^ 

3  [siiia  -^  s)adbu  sadbu   kula-pu!!rft  evam  eva  drastavyam  lo^-anuvrttya 

aba  sma  »^  no  b4dam  Bbagavan^  lok-dnuvartana''  aba  siHa  -^  sadbu 
sadb^i  kida-ptttra  evam 

4  gamhhlrenn    vrksa-pupp#^bara^-Mramara-vat\    dbarm-^barena    bbavi- 

tavyam^  ][  Punar  aparaiii  kula-putra  yatba  ma^aka-mtitrewa  mahd- 
jprtliivl  n^aiva  tr- ' 

5  (^2)yaf)e  '^  atisval2>atv&is_  eva^°  masaka-mutravat^  svalpam  ida^°  maba- 

sutra^"    loki  11    pracarisyati  -^  anagate    kale  '^  sad-dharma-vinu§a- 
faranie  "^  ina- 

6  ]ia-prtbivl-(7a!'rt?)iv    («2fl'ia)ka-m"utravat\  ksayaiii  yasyati -^  ida^"  sapta- 

marii  nimittam  '^  sad-dbarm-amntardbanasy*asesani  samni-nimit/an? 
jfiata  ;>_;/«  ^^  kusalena  ][ 

7  (Pu)nai'    aparaiii    A-w-la-pntra    [ijathd    varsa)su    dbvastasu  '>  pratbamo 

bemanta-masa  «^  ^arad    ity  ucyate  -^  tasya'°    sarady   upavrttffY«i" 
megba  tvarito-/(Yn'/Yam  ahh'wrsjokpa- 

^  The  syllable  ddhi  (for  dJii)  is  inserted  interlinearly  below  the  syllable  la, 
giving  the  reading  dlntruya,  corresponding  to  Magadhi  Pr.  instr.  dhidde  (Pischel,  Pr. 
Gr.,  p.  274)  ;  ace.  dkilaram  in  INfahavastu,  vol.  i,  p.  180^',  from  nom.  d/ilfii. 

3  Erad  is  a  curious  form ;  the  '/  is  added  interlinearly,  above  the  syllable  bha, 
apparently  as  an  afterthought,  the  scribe  thinking  of  evam  etad.  It  is  repeated 
immediately  afterwards,  in  the  same  line,  and  only  there  ;  the  correct  form  evam  eva 
occurs  in  1.  3. 

*  BJuifjavdn,  nom.  for  voc.  hliagnvan,  as  in  1.  3. 

^   1  ddi/aJiam,  probably  read  jjdvad  adij<.dhai'ii,  Pali  ydvajjahai'n^  '  Ijy  to-day,  by 
now  '.     BJidvanai'ii,  ace,  '  in  regard  to  impregnating  '. 
^   Or  perhaps  emend  pravesHdydm  yrahlidv'iiah. 
'  Jjohinurnriiand^sQe,  Mahavastu,  vol.  i,  p.  168* 

*  Read  inixjidhdra  ;  the  aksaras  pa  and  sa  differ  only  l)y  a  cross-line. 

'  Trpyule ;  the  letters  are  not  fully  legible,  and  the  word  might  be  vrsyaie. 
1°  Anusvara  omitted  in  the  original ;  so  also  d  in  rev,  1.  1,  vu  for  vad. 
ii  For  loke,  locatives  in  i  being  common  in  Buddhist  Sanskrit ;   e.  g.  haal'i  in 
No.  3,  rev.  1.  10,  p.  91. 

1^  Jildtavya,  and  below,  rev.  1.  3,  sutra,  sing,  for  plur.,  jndtavydni  and  sutrdni. 


MAHAPARINIRVlNA   SUTEA  95 

Reverse. 

1  [yarttayantij  usmam  evam  idam  ma]hasutram  ^■?;a?'ita-varsana-iaraiz- 

meglia-nirgamanavft  ^'^  (]aliHii).ii--patham  jpraYisya  ^aa/iapariuirvbanaiia 
sarvbe  sa{iiclh)a-vacana^^  dharma- 

2  {ineg]ia)xxxxxx   flaZ;sma-patliakana '^"   bodhisatvana "  mahasatva^^«m 

siid-dliurma-vincUaiJi      Sijndya       asanna-he{manta-vr)tta-megha-YSit'^ 
Kasmi- 

3  [rain  i)ra)ni[kia  jirtJdvyajui   antardhasyate   sarvia-mahayana-sutra ^^ 

vaitulva^*-param-amrta-saddharm*4ntardhaiiaw-i  hhavisyanUUi  -^  tad 
idanlm  ayaiii 

4  sutra-la{blia  "^  )   Tathdgat-djnoeyam  agata  sad-dharm^antardhanav^^  iti 

bodhavyam^  bodhisatvai  ^  mahasatvai  nara-humjarai '  uJia 

5  sma  >>  akhyatu^'^hhsigavdms  Tathagatahpratyekabuddha-^ravaka-bodlii- 

satva-dh«tu-nirnna(na)karaTOarh  "      yisada-visjjast-krtha  ^°    {sa)rvba- 
satvdnani 

6  snhha-vi^n&nsiya  bhagavarn'-*  avocatv  tadyatha  kula-putra  grhapatir 

vi 

vba   grhapati-putro    va  hhutasya  vrajasi/«   n«?ia-varnana "   gavmn 

7  svami   syat^'''  tatra  ca  nila  gavah  syuli  ta  ga(w()  eko  gojKih  palayet^ 

bhatah^"  sa  grhapati  "^  kadacit^"  atmano  devata-nimittaiii 

^^  Concerning'  sanclliucacana  and  °bhdsya,  see  Saddharma-pundarika  (ed.  Kern), 
pp.  59,  1.  4;  60,  1.  12  ;  62,  ].  11  ;  64,  1.  7  ;  70,  1.  5.     Cf.  No.  10  a^',  p.  126. 

^*  Concerning  vaitulya,  see  Kern,  Verslagen  .  .  des  Koninklijk  Akademie  .... 
Afdeeling  Letterkunde,  4*"  Reeks,  Deel  viii,  pp.  312-19. 

1^  The  new  form  aniardlidni  (for  °nd)  has  been  traced  already  by  Dr.  Wogihara 
in  Indiea,  fasc.  6,  p.  18  (L.). — Saddharmd,  nom.  plnr.,  with  double  sandhi,  as  in  1.  3, 
refers  to  the  Vaitulya  Sutras. — Note  also  the  peculiar  lateral  position  of  the  super- 
script r  in  rdliu.  It  occurs  also  in  obv.  1.  6,  in  the  same  word,  and  in  rev.  1.  1,  in  rga 
of  nirgamana .     See  footnote  8^  p.  90. 

^^    Read  dkhjaiu. 

1''  2s  irnndiidkaranam,  '  not  distinguishing '  ;  the  verb  ndndkaroti  is  known  to 
Panini,  who  gives  for  the  absolute  part,  ndndkrtr/a  or  ndndkdram  (III,  4.  62).  The 
Dvv.  has  ndndkiirana, '  difference  ',  p.  222, 1.  20  (L.)-  See  also  Mvy.,  hiili  ndnukJranai'ii, 
No^  245«'. 

^^  The  original  reading  was  hhagavan  a° ;  the  scribe  has  inserted  inteiiinearl}', 
below  °vaua,  the  syllable  vd,  and  indicated  the  place  of  insertion  above  by  two  dots 
placed  high  up  in  the  space  between  the  letters  va  and  ua,  so  that  the  word  would 
now  read  bJiagavavfma  ;  but  clearly  the  intention  was  to  substitute  vd  for  va,  so  that 
the  word  should  be  read  (as  the  context  requires)  hitagavdn. 
1'  Read  sydt ;  probably  damaged  by  rubbing. 
^^  Read  tatah  and  kaddcid. 


96  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

TRANSLATION.^^ 

[Obv.  1.  l.j  (He,  i.e.  the  Blessed  One,  said :  Endowed  with  innumerable  merits, 
O  noble  youth,  is  this  Mahaparinirviina)  ^^  Grand  Sutra  because  of  its  stimulating  the 
Womb  of  the  Tathagata.  By  any  noble  youth  or  noble  maiden,  who  desires  quickly  to 
understand  the  doctrinal  principles  of  the  Sutra,  an  endeavour  should  be  made  on  the 
Womb  of  the  Tathagata.  [1.  2]  He  (i.  e.  Kasyapa)  ^^  said :  Even  so,  Blessed  One, 
even  so,  Blessed  One  ;  as  regards  the  imj)regnation  of  the  Womb  of  the  Tathagata,  by 
now  I  have  become  strong  and  proficient  in  the  introduction  of  seed. ^*  [1.  3]  He  (i.e. 
the  Blessed  One)  said:  True,  true,  noble  youth;  even  so  it  must  be  conceived, 
speaking  after  the  manner  of  the  vulgar  world.  He  (Kasj-apa)  said:  Not  so. 
O  Blessed  One,  I  do  not  (mean  to)  speak  after  the  manner  of  the  vulgar  world. 
He  (the  Blessed  One)  said  :  True,  true,  noble  youth,  [1.  4]  it  must  be  done  by  pene- 
trating deeply  into  the  Absolute  as  one's  food,  even  as  a  bee  takes  its  food  from  (the 
depth  of)  the  flowers  of  a  tree.  Once  again,  O  noble  youth,  just  as  by  mosquitoes'  urine 
the  great  earth  is  in  no  wise  [1.  5]  satiated  (with  moisture)  by  reason  of  its  extreme 
sparseness,  even  so,  like  mosquitoes'  urine,  this  Grand  Sutra  will  spread  sparsely  in  the 
world :  in  the  coming  period,  characterized  by  the  destruction  of  the  Good  Law, 
[1.  6]  it  will  go  to  waste,  just  as  mosquitoes'  urine  oozes  into  the  great  earth.  This  is 
the  seventh  sign.  All  the  numerous  depressive  ^^  signs  of  the  disappearance  of  the  Good 
Law  should  be  known  by  a  good  man.  [1.  7]  Once  again,  O  noble  youth,  just  as  upon 
the  passing  away  of  the  rainy  season  (comes)  the  first  winter-month  (which)  is  called 
autumn  (hrri/I),  (and)  on  the  arrival  of  that  autumn  {^arad)^  the  clouds,  giving  quick 
short  showers,  [Rev.  1.  1]  (cause  warmth  to  disappear),^^  even  so  this  Mahaparinirvana 

^^  The  Mahaparinirviina  Siitra,  a  iiortion  of  which  is  here  translated,  is  that 
of  the  Mahayanists.  It  is  a  very  large  Sutra,  quite  different  from  the  Mahaparinir- 
viina Sutra  of  the  Hinayanists  which  corresponds  to  the  IMahaparinibbana  Sutta  of 
the  Piili  Canon.  [The  translation  is  based  on  translations,  made  by  Dr.  Watanabe, 
of  the  two  Chinese  versions,  which  Prof.  Leumann  was  good  enough  to  furnish  to 
Dr.  Thomas.     They  are  referred  to  below  in  the  footnotes. — R.  H.] 

^^  Supplied  from  the  Chinese  versions,  and  restored  by  Prof.  Leumann,  dJia 
sii/a  •  (imiiMyeya-gunai'iL  ktilajmtra  etan  jllahdjmriiiiri'dna-niakusutram. 

^^  As  the  Chinese  versions  show,  the  text  is  in  the  form  of  a  dialogue  between 
Buddha  and  Kasyapa. 

^*  On  the  Mahayanist  doctrine  of  the  Tathagata  Garbha,  or  Tathagata's  Womb, 
see  Suz.OMB.,  p.  126,  n.  1,  :md  Suz.AF.,  p.  54,  n.  2.  TalMgata-garlha  is  practically 
synonymous  with  hliuta-iathalva  and  ilJiariiia-kdi/u ;  see  Suz.OMB.,  pp.  125  fl^.,  145, 
and  Suz.AE.,  pp.  96,  98.  (Cf.  footnote  11  on  p.  92.)  It  is  treated  of  at  length  in  the 
Tathagata-garbha-siitra,  on  which  see  Suz.OMB.,  p.  243,  note  ],  and  S.S.,  p.  407, 
note  171.  13  ;  also  Wassilyew's  Buddhism  (German),  p.  190. 

^^  1hQtes.t}i?iS.sa7hni-7imMdni  (fov  ■saniii",  M.  W.  Dy.,  p.  1139),  'signs  of  depres- 
sion', 'bad  signs',  opp.  nannimitia,  'good  sign'. 

^^  Restored  according  to  Fahian's  Chinese  version  :  '  as  at  the  end  of  summer 
and  in  the  beginning  of  winter  autumnal  rains  regularly  fall,  and  warmth  hides 
itself.'     The  text  may  be  restored  apavarltai/anti  vsmam. 


MAHlPARmiRVANA  SUTRA  97 

Grand  Sutra,  like  tlie  departure  of  the  quick  showery  autumnal  clouds,  having  entered 
the  southern  region,  will  rain  down  all  the  mysterious  sayings  ^^  [1.  2]  (contained 
in)  the  cloud  of  the  Law  (through  the  activity)  of  the  sonthern  Bodhisattvas,  INIaha- 
sattvas.^^  On  perceiving  the  destruction  of  the  LaWj  having  after  the  manner  of 
clouds,  at  the  approach  of  the  winter,  [1. 3]  entered  Kashmir,  it  will  become  hid  in  the 
earth.  All  the  Mahayana  Sutras,  the  vast  -"  and  exceedingly  nectar-like  texts  of  the 
Good  Law,  will  become  hid.  Hence  now,  this  is  [1.  4]  the  advantage  of  (this  Maha- 
parinirvana)  Sutra  that  it  may  be  understood  by  the  Bodhisattvas,  Mahasattvas, 
eminent  men  that  this  is  the  permission  of  the  Tathagata  that  the  texts  of  the  Good 
Law  have  gone  ifito  hiding.  He  (Kasyapa)  said  :  May  the  blessed  Tathagata  declare 
the  absence  of  distinction  between  the  states  of  a  Pratyekabuddha,  a  Sravaka,  and 
a  Bodhisattva,^"  explaining  it  clearly  and  manifestly  [I.  6]  for  the  easy  understanding 
of  all  beings.  The  Blessed  One  spoke :  It  is  as  if^  O  noble  youth,  a  householder  or 
a  son  of  a  householder,  should  be  the  owner  of  a  fit  cattle-shed,  and  of  cattle  of  various 
colours,  and  there  should  be  Nilgais  ^^  (among  them),  and  a  single  cowherd  should 
tend  these  cattle.  Then  that  householder  on  some  occasion  for  the  sake  of  his  own 
(tutelary)  deity  (should  cause  all  the  cows  to  be  milked  into  a  single  vessel). ^^ 

4.  AN   UNIDENTIFIED   SUTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  144,  SA.  5.     (Plate  XX,  No.  5,  Reverse.) 

This  is  a  complete  folio,  measuring  236  x  96  mm.  (or  9^g  x  3-|  inches) ;  very 
well  preserved  ;  with  the  usual  circle  (19  mm.  or  -f"  diameter)  and  hole  for  the  string. 
The   folio-number    75   or  45    (in  some  forms  hardl}^  distinguishable,   see  Biihler, 

^''  On  saud/id-vacana,  see  footnote  4,  p.  126. 

2^  The  text  is  here  too  defective  to  admit  any  but  a  conjectural  translation. 
The  Chinese  version  of  Dharmaraksha  has  '  in  the  southern  regions  it  (the  Maha- 
parinirvana  Sutra)  will  be  spread  by  all  Bodhisattvas  ;  they  cause  the  Dharmamegha 
to  rain  and  to  fill  (the  south) '. 

^^  The  text  has  raifulya-sutra.  The  usual  term  is  vaipidya-sutra.  Regarding 
a  Vaitulya  Sutra,  see  S.  S.,  p.  354,  note  4. 

^°  The  text  from  which  the  two  Chinese  versions  were  made  appears  to  have 
omitted  the  visarg;i  after  Tathagata  ;  for  they  translate  :  '  there  is  no  diflference 
between  the  state  of  Buddhas,  Bodhisattvas,  Sravakas,  Pratyekabuddhas.'  Regarding 
the  difference  of  the  three  classes  of  Buddha's  followers,  and  their  respective  Yanas, 
see  S.P.,  p.  79,  1.  6,  Dh.S.  No.  2,  p.  35  ;  Suz.OMB.,  pp.  8,  9,  277  ff. 

'1  The  Nilgai  (lit.  blue  cattle,  BoselapJms  tragocamelus)  of  India.  '  The  general 
colour  of  the  old  bulls  is  bluish  grey,  but  younger  bulls  and  cows  are  browner '  (Enc. 
Brit.). 

^^  Supplied  from  Dharmaraksha's  Chinese  version. 

fi78  H 


98  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

Table  IX)  stands  on  the  left  edge  of  the  reverse  side.  There  are,  on  either  page,  ten 
lines  of  very  clear  and  good  black  writing,  in  Upright  Gupta  characters. 

The  text  is  a  fragment  of  a  Sutra,  the  identity  of  which  it  has  not  yet  been 
possible  to  discover.  The  extant  fragment  treats  of  the  progress  of  a  Bodhisattva 
through  the  three  stages  of  pnUhaiua-cittotpdclika,  or  one  in  whom  the  desire  to 
become  a  Buddha  is  first  awakened,  hoihiearya-pratipanna  ^  or  one  who  has  entered 
on  the  life  of  a  Bodhisattva,  and  an.ut2Miiika-dharma-hdiifi.-pratilabdha,  or  one  who  has 
attained  to  that  spiritual  peace  which  precludes  further  rebirth.  These  three  stages 
are  referred  to  in  the  passage  from  the  Aksayamati  Sutra  which  is  quoted  in  the 
Siksasamuecaya  (ed.  Bendall,  p.  212,  11.  12-14).  The  folio-number  points  to  the 
fragment  belonging  to  a  rather  extended  Sutra. 

The  text  -^  of  the  folio  reads  as  follows  : — 

Obverse. 

1  laputro  ^  va  kuladuhita  va :  ^  sa-saptaAena  *  suvisuddha-cittena  aranye 

pratyutpanna-btiddha-  manasi- 

2  karena  viharati  ev«^sya  ^  buddha-stirya-ma  ^-manasikarena  ra^mibhih 

sarvba-skandha-dhatv-ayatanesu 

3  dana-dama-samyama-satparamita''-vivrddhih  yavat  paripiirim  gaccha- 

nti*  tadyathfi  kulaputra  grisnie  pa- 

4  ,scime   mase  surya-ra^mibhih  puspa''  vikasanti  pliala-dhany-6sadlia  ^ 

vardanti  ^''  yavat  pacanti  satva- 

5  nam  upabhoga-paribhogah"  saiiikhyam  gacchanti  evam  eva  kulaputra 

prathama-cittotpadiko  ^"  kulapu- 

■^  [The  text  is  written  in  markedly  'mixed  Sanskrit'.  Thus  for  cases  of  the 
neglect  of  sandhi  see  below  note  12,  of  inflection,  note  9,  of  concord,  note  14 ;  and  for 
a  case  of  prakritism,  note  16.  There  are  also  numerous  clerical  errors,  see  notes  4-7, 
10,  13,  14.— R.  H.]  2  Complete  hdaputro. 

8  Double  dot,  or  visarga,  as  a  mark  of  interpunction. 

*  Read  sat-sapta  ,  and  below,  rev.  1.  5,  yavat. 
^  For  evam  asya,  as  below  in  1.  7. 

*  Read  surya-yuma  ;  cf.  rev.  1.  3,  suiya-vimdna  ;  also  manasihurena,  as  in  1.  1  ;  cf. 
Dvy.,  p.  23620,  ^nd  Mvy.,  No.  85*-  '  Read  °pdrami1d. 

^  The  subject  of  gacchanti  is  some  plural  indicated  by  ydvat.  As  regards  jjdripuri, 
see  Mst.,  vol.  i,  p.  373. 

^  Neglect  of  inflection ;  read  puspdni,  °6mA}idni,  amiprehfi,  samtdiid{Ji),  °muldiii, 
mrvdni,  a§esdni,  avipdkdni,  "viindnaih,  "d/idJ/ahlraM,  priyo,  7uliha)nya/i,prasd}ita/i. 

^o  Read  ranUiaiiti,  and  rev.  1.  1,  vlvardhanti. 

11  Read  °parihJwga-samk/iydil/ ,  omitting  visarga. 

12  Neglect  of  sandhi ;  read  "otpddikah^  °maya,  °dv~>pa,  aayanair,  °olpddiko  'mdtd' . 


AN  UNIDENTIFIED  SUTRA  99 

6  tro  va  kuladuhita  va  bodhaya  cittaiii  ^^  tr-saptahena  suvi^uddha-cittena 

da^abhir  ^*  diksu  pratyiitpa- 
7'  nna-samukha^'-buddha-manas#aniipr^ksi^  viharati  evam  asya  buddha- 

manasikaia-rai^mibhih  samadhi-puspa- 

Eeverse. 

1  sya  samtana'  vikasanti  sarvba-ku^alamula"  bodhicaryaya"  vivardanti" 

sarvia"  aku^alamula^  dharmasya 

2  vipacyanti  u^usyanti "    asesa  ^  avipaka '  nasyanti  sarvba-paramita  ^- 

bhtimisu  suparipakv-endriyo  bha- 

3  vati  sarvba-satva-paripacaka  tipajivyo   bhavati  tad  yatlia  kulaj^utra 

surya-mabavimana  °  purvbibna-sa- 

4  maye  ^^  iha  Jambudvipe  ^^  udayati  sarvba-tam-i^ndhakara "  vidbamayati 

sarvbesaiii  ca  priya  ^ 

5  nayanai  ^^    udiksaniya  ^    pujani^/o    bhavati   ksatriya-brahmana-vaisya- 

hldrHnam.  yava*  tiryagyo- 

6  ni-gatanamm^'"  api  evam  eva  kulaputra  yah  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita 

va  prathama-cittotpadiko  ^^ 

7  anuttarayaiii  1*  sammyak^-sambodhaya  cittani  utpadayati  tr-sapt^he 

vivikte  prasanta  °  sayyasana-pra- 

TRANSLATION. 

[Obverse] a  noble  youth  or  a  noble  maiden  abides,  for  the  space  of  six 

weeks,  with  well-purified  mind,  in  the  forest,  in  mental  vision  of  realized  {pratyut- 
pmina)  Buddhahood.  Thus  by  his  meditation  on  the  sun-ehariot  of  Buddha,  by  its 
rays,  with  respect  to  all  (four)  departments  of  the  mind  [dJiarma-skandka),  the  (two) 
elements,  and  the  (two)  spheres  of  sense  ^^,  his  growth  in  charity,  temperance,  self- 
restraint,  the  six  perfections  (and  so  forth  down  to)  reaches  fullness  ;  it  is  just  as, 
O  noble  youth,  in  the  summer,  in  its  last  month,  by  the  rays  of  the  sun,  flowers 

■'^  Here  utpaclya  is  missed  out ;  cf.  rev.  1.  7. 

^*  Read  cla^asu  ;  for  another  neglect  of  concord  see  below,  rev.  1.  7,  where  read 
annttardi/a,  dat.  sing.,  agreeing  with  °bodhdi/a.  The  fem.  loc.  amdtarCiydm  would 
agree  with  °bodkau,  as  in  S.S.,  p.  278, 1.  5. 

1^  Read  ° samnukha  ;  but  rev.  11.  6,  7,  gatdndm,  samyah. 

^'^  Prakritie,  or  Pali,  gen.  sing.,  for  Skr.  °carydyd{li). 

^^  Read  ncchisyanti  {id-hisyanfi),  similarly  utrasta  and  anutrasita  (for  utt)°  and 
nnuUr°)  in  Nos.  6//",  10  a^     [See  Skr.Vajra.,  p.  186,  footnote  11.— R.  H.] 

1^  On  these  terms  see  B.  Psch.,  pp.  26,  125,  et  passim. 

h2 


100  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

open  out,  fruits,  grain,  and  medical  herbs  grow  up  (and  so  forth  down  to)  ripen  and 
are  counted  fit  for  the  use  and  enjoyment  of  living  beings.  Even  so,  O  noble  youth, 
a  noble  youth  or  a  noble  maiden,  being  one  in  whom  the  first  thought  (of  reaching 
Buddhahood)  has  sprung  up,  turns  his  thought  upon  (attaining)  enlightenment 
[lodha),  and  abides,  for  the  space  of  three  weeks,  with  well-purified  mind,  mentally 
envisaging  in  the  ten  quarters  (the  spot  where  he  might  become)  a  realized,  face-to- 
face  Buddha.  Thus  by  the  rays  of  the  mental  vision  of  Buddha,  [Reverse]  his  chain  of 
Samadhi  thoughts  ^^  opens  out  like  a  flower,  all  the  stock  of  merit  of  Bodhisattvaship 
grows  up,  all  the  stock  of  demerit  (obstructive)  of  the  Absolute  mature  and  dry  up 
(like  an  ulcer),  and  without  remainder,  without  consequences^"  perish ;  in  all  the 
periods  of  paramita  ^^  he  becomes  one  whose  senses  are  fully  matured,  in  all  the  ways  of 
maturing  of  living  beings  he  becomes  one  who  can  be  depended  upon  ;  it  is  just  as, 
O  noble  youth,  the  great  chariot  of  the  sun,  here  in  JambudvTpa  rises  in  the  forenoon 
time,  disperses  all  darkness,  and  is  the  beloved  of  all,  to  be  gazed  at  with  the  eyes,  and 
to  be  worshipped  by  Kshatriyas,  Brahmanas,  Vaisyas,  Sudras,  (and  so  forth  down  to) 
brute  animals.  Even  so,  O  noble  youth,  the  noble  youth  or  noble  maiden  who,  from 
the  first  springing  up  of  the  thought  (of  Buddhahood),  turns  his  thought  to  the  final 
perfect  enlightenment,  (and)  within  the  space  of  three  weeks,  in  solitude,  calmly 
abiding  {^pratyusitoi)  on  his  seat 


5.  EATNADHVAJA,   IN   THE   MAHASAMNIPATA  SUTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  7.     (Plate  XX,  No.  6,  Obverse.) 

This  folio  is  complete  but  for  the  loss  of  the  upper  left  corner,  measuring 
330  X  97  mm.  (or  13  x  3|-  inches) ;  with  the  usual  circle  (25  mm.  or  \^q  inch  diameter) 
and  string-hole  in  the  left  half.  The  folio-number  94  is  at  the  left  edge  of  the  obverse. 
The  paper  is  discoloured  by  age.  The  number  of  lines  is  seven  on  either  side.  The 
writing,  in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  is  good ;  less  elegant,  larger,  and  more  worn 
than  that  of  No.  4,  but  nearly  everywhere  quite  legible. 

The  text  has  been  identified  by  Dr.  Watanabe  as  from  the  second  chapter, 
called  T'urra,  of  the  second  part,  Ratnadhvaja,  of  the  Mahasamnipata  Sutra  (Nanjio, 
No.  84,  ZDMG.  Ixii,  p.  100).  It  was  translated  into  Chinese  by  Dharmaraksha, 
a  native  of  Central  India,  between  414  and  421  a.  D.,  under  the  Northern  Lian 

'■^  On  santdna,  see  Petersburg  Dy.,  s.v.  Bendall's  explanation  in  S.S.,  p.  23,  n.  4, 
and  p.  360,  n.  3,  is  incorrect,  as  shown  even  by  the  Tibetan  rgyud^ '  chain  (of  thought)'. 

^°  Avipdkaiii,  lit. '  without  maturing',  refers  to  the  doctrine  of  karma ;  when  there 
is  no  longer  any  rebirth  as  the  result  of  actions,  good  or  bad. 

^■■^  Om  pdramitd-hJtumi,  'stage  of  paramita',  see  P.DJ^,  p.  335  a. 


EATNADHVAJA,  IN  THE  MAHASAMNIPATA  SUTKA     101 

dynasty  (Nanjio,  App.  II,  No.  67).     In  the  Tokyo  edition  of  the  Tripitaka  the 
passage  corresponds  to  III,  2  ;  fol.  4  a^"^^. 
It  reads  as  follows  ^ : — 

Obverse. 

1  xxgamcmasiA;ara  hhsiv&nti  bhagavan  aha  karma-joratyayam  eva  drasta- 

vya  ^•oiubala-pr^j^tanam  sathdna^m  bhagava  saiii^aya- 

2  cched-ar^/^a  ^  imam  ptirvba-yoga  udaharati  smam  ^  ][  bhuta-ptirvbam 

kulaputr-Stite  'dhvani  aparimanebhin *  mahakalpebhih 

3  adhikkrantebhi  asmiiii  c^aiva  cata-dvipikayaiii  7/ad#4smim  tena  kalena 

tena  samayena  Jyotistiryagandhaobbasa- 

4  sri  nama  abhusis   tathagata  arba  samyak-sambuddbo   yava  buddho 

bhaga^;am  kliste  pancaka-sade  ^  loke  vartta- 

5  mane  caturnam  parisariam  sata-trini  ^  yanani  dharman  desayati  smam  ^ 

tena  ca  kala-samayena  :  raja- ' 

6  m   abhusi  Utpalavaktro  nama  catu-(;?Z)^pika-cakkravarttl :   atba  raja 

Utpalavaktro  aparena  samayena  s-antahpu- 

^  [The  text  is  written  in  very  irregular  Sanskrit.  Thus  we  have  instances 
of  false  concord  in  obv.  1.  3,  asmith  "dvtpikdydih  ;  false  number,  rev.  1.  6,  hulajmtrah 
for  °putrah ;  false  gender,  obv.  1.  6,  "dblpiia  (but  1.  3,  dvl^nkdydui),  rev.  1.  2,  (jdtliehhi ; 
false  spelling,  obv.  1.  Z,i/dndni  \  false  sandhi,  obv.  1.  2,  °kalpehhih  adhikkrdntebJii  asmifk, 
1.  4,  Sri  nama,  and  tathdgato  arlia,  1.  6,  "vaktro  aparena,  rev.  1.  2,  IJiagavato  Sirasd,  and 
imebhi  gdthel/hi,  1.  5,  trapdya,  and  so  ca,  1.  6,  savianvdgato  satpurusa  ;  omission  of  final 
consonant,  obv.  1.  4,  ydva,  of  visarga,  rev.  1.  1,  gandhehliya,  11.  4,  5,  nara,  1.  5, 
pathai,  of  anusvara,  obv,  1.  1,  drastavya,  and  hliagava  (for  prakritic  hJiagavam),  1.  2, 
artlia,  yoga,  rev,  11.  4,  5,  katha,  though  in  all  these  cases  the  anusvara  may  be 
only  rubbed  off;  on  the  other  hand,  there  is  a  wrong  anusvara  in  rev.  1.  2,  krtvdin,  and 
1.  4,  ahJdhitaiii  ;  insertion  of  euphonic  m  in  obv.  1.  6,  rdjd-m-aihusi ;  prakritic  con- 
traction in  obv.  11.  3,  7,  rev.  1.  6,  " gandhaohlidsa  for  gandhdvabhdsa.  Curiosities  of 
spelling-  are  the  subscript  b  for  v,  e.g.,  in  obv.  1.  2,pmrvba,  1.  6,  dblpika  (but  1.  3  dvipi- 
kdydni),  kotwhala,  obv.  1.  1  (for  kauf),  ablmtavimu,  rev.  1.  3  (for  abhida°).  Also  the 
dots  as  marks  of  punctuation  may  be  noticed,  and  the  peculiar  shape  of  the  inter- 
punctional  double  bar,  obv.  1.  2,  rev.  11.  3,  5  ;  see  footnote  1,  p.  93. — R.  H.] 

^  Note  the  anomalous  attachm-ent  of  the  superscript  r  to  the  side  of  tlia  in  artlia, 
instead  of  above  it.     See  footnote  8,  p.  90,  footnote  15,  p.  95. 

*  Here,  and  in  1.  5,  smdi'n  reminds  us  of  some  Vedic  nasalizations  (L.). 

*  °bliin  malia  is  a  clerical  error  for  °bliir  mahd. 

^  Apparently  syn.  panca-kasdya ;  see  Dh.S.,  No.  91,  Mvy.,  No.  124,  L.V., 
p.  248,  1.  13.    But  see  also  SEE.,  vol.  xlix.  Part  ii,  p.  169,  footnote  2. 

''  Compare  the  similar  dve-sata,  M.W.Dy.,  p.  507^.  On  the  three  ydna  see 
S.S.,  p.  3288,  L.V.,  pp.  257",  2601^,  Mst.,  II,  p.  3628,  Dh.S.,  No.  2. 

'  Bdjdm,  ace.  sing.,  for  Skr.  rdjdnam ;  cf.  Pali  rdiam,  and  footnote  7,  p.  105. 


102  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

7  ra-parivaraA  sa-bala-kayo  :   yena  Jyotisomyagandhaobhasa-sris  tatha- 
gato  texii^o'pasamJckraml  upfi<^«  tasya 

Eeverse. 

1  bhaga-yata/i    jjadau    sirasa   vanditva    67^a^avarlta(m)    nana-puspe6/iya 

oki(r/)rasu  •  n&nsi-vddjehhyah  flana-gandhebhya  jj;7jam  'kriva  sdrd- 
dha  (in) 

2  aparimitena  bhiksu-saiiighena  pradaksim-krtvaiii  punar  api   bhaga- 

vato  sirasa  padau  vanditva  :  imebhi  gathebhi  hhagSi- 

3  vantam  abhistavinsu  ][  Sura-'wara-bhiijaga-pujaDiya  pra^ama-kara  kali- 

kalusam  aram^  sapta-dhana-rahita-sprti- 

4  kara  **  bbani  katba  bbavati  nara  suksma-matih  [1]  Sarvba-jagati  tama- 

sph"uta-pradipa-kara  **  jara-maran-abhihitam-  ■' 

5  pramoksa-kara  :  tr-ap^ya-jaga  ^^  pramo{caya)se  hhani  ^°  katba  mucyati 

nara  manMxiara-patbai  ^^  2  ][  So  ca  ku- 

6  (Za)piitra,/i     Jyotisomyagandhaobhasasris    tatbagato     raja^-     JJtjjala- 

vaktram  etad  avocat^  ^raya-cZ^arma-samanvagato  ^* 

7  saptpnrusa    stiksma-matir   bbavati   :   addliyasayena    sarvba-sa^?)e(sti) 

iMrundyati  I  ssix{vha-satvdiidm  r/t(/i)kha-prasaman-artba 

TRANSLATION. 

(Obverse.)  ....  they  become  inattentive.  The  Blessed  One  spake, '  the  doctrine 
of  Karma,  verily,  must  be  considered.'  To  beings  taken  with  curiosity  the  Blessed 
One,  for  the  purpose  of  removing  their  doubts,  related  the  following  old-time  story. 
In  a  long  by-gone  age,  a  man  of  noble  family  (having  been  such  a  one)  in  times 
past,  and  countless  Great  Periods  of  time  having  passed,  (was  born  again)  in  this 
world   of  four  dvipas.-"^*     At  that  time,  on  that  occasion,  there  was  a  Tathagata 

^  Sfjrti  .  .  .  sphita  :  '  help ', '  touched  '  (cf.  Jaina  Prakrit ^j/2«(/rt)  are  from  spr  '  win ', 
'reach',  'touch',  whence  comes  also  the  E.  Turkestani  word  pMra  'obtainment',  used 
of  the  four  stages  srota-dpanna,  &c.  (L.).  The  «  of  the  vocative  corresponds  to  the 
Vedic  and  Sanskrit  pl/ifi  (L.).  ^  Probably  read  °ddk-i//aia-pramoha° . 

''■"  On  the  three  apdya,  see  L.V.,  p.  SQ'-*  et  passim.  The  Southern  Buddhists  have 
four  aimjia  ;  see  P.Dy.,  p.  49  I. — With  hhani  compare  lliane  in  Mv.VI,  20,  2,  p.  214. 

^^  Maru  'god'  =  riiant  (L.).  Compare  L.V.,  p.  257^'',  deva-muivusydndi'ii,  with 
p.  260^*,  mani-manusds° ;  and  S.P.,  p.  12,  1.  13. 

^^  Read  rdjdm.     See  footnote  7.  ■'^  Note  traya-dJiarma  for  tri-dharma  (L.). 

^*  Here  the  original  reads  yaddsmh'n,  which  is  not  intelligible.  Apparently  the 
text  is  corrupt  or  mutilated.    One  expects  some  phrase  like  nirrrttali. 


RATNADHVAJA,  IN  THE  MAHASAMNIPATA  SUTRA     108 

named  Jyotisuryagandhavabliasasri,^'  an  Arhat,  thoroughly  enlightened,  (and  so  forth 
down  to)  the  blessed  Buddha,  while  the  world  was  being  afflicted  by  the  fivefold 
defects,  declared  to  his  four  classes  of  disciples  the  three  equal  Vehicles  (and)  the 
Law.  At  that  time,  on  that  occasion,  there  was  a  King  Utpalavaktra-'^  by  name, 
(who  was)  the  sovereign  of  all  the  four  dvlpas.  Now  King  Utpalavaktra,  at  another 
time,  accompanied  by  his  wives  and  courtiers  and  his  bodyguard,  proceeded  to 
where  the  Tathagata  Jyotisomj^agandhavabhasasri  (was  staying).  Having  arrived 
(Reverse)  and  having  respectfully  touched  the  feet  of  the  Blessed  One  with  the 
head,  they  besprinkled  the  Blessed  One  with  various  flowers;  and  having  done 
worship  to  him  with  various  forms  of  music  and  various  scents,  and  having  circum- 
ambulated him  together  with  his  countless  community  of  monks,  and  having  once 
more  respectfully  touched  the  feet  of  the  Blessed  One  with  the  head,  they  eulogized 
him  with  the  following  Gatha  verses  : 

(1)  O  thou  that  art  worthy  to  be  worshipped  by  gods,  men,  and  Nfigas,  that 
art  the  complete  remover  of  the  impurity  of  the  Kali  age,  that  art  the  supplier  of  those 
that  are  destitute  of  the  seven  kinds  of  treasure'-":  say,  how  does  a  man  become 
subtle-minded  ? 

(2)  O  thou  that  in  all  the  world  art  the  illuminator  of  those  that  are  touched 
with  darkness,  that  art  the  deliverer  of  those  that  are  afflicted  with  old  age  and  death, 
that  deliverest  the  world  of  its  three  places  of  suffering  :  say,  how  is  a  man  delivered 
from  the  paths  of  the  Maruts  and  Mara  ?  ^'' 

Then  that  man  of  noble  family,  JyotisomyagandhavabhasasrI,  the  Tathagata, 
spake  thus  to  King  Utpalavaktra,  '  A  good  man,  who  satisfies  the  (following) 
three  conditions,  becomes  subtle-minded ;  (namely,  first,  that)  he  becomes  purposely 
compassionate  towards  all  creatures ;  (secondly,  that)  for  the  sake  of  allaying  the 
suffering's  of  all  creatures 


6.    CANDRAGARBHA,   IN    THE    MAHASAMNIPATA    SUTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143  a,  SA.  10.     (Plate  XX,  No.  1,  Obverse.) 

This  folio,  measuring  402  x118  mm.  (or  15fx4|  inches)  is  very  fairly  pre- 
served, except  for  a  small  gap  in  the  right  half,  and  loss  of  the  right  lower  corner  with 
a  portion  of  the  text.     In  the  left  half  there  is  the  usual  circle  (25  mm.,  or  1  in. 

^5  The  Tathagata  Jyotisuryagandhavabhasasri  (elsewhere,  obv.  1.  7  and  rev.  1.  6, 
called  Jyotisomya")  and  also  King  Utpalavaktra  (obv.  1.  6,  rev.  1.  6)  appear  to  be 
otherwise  unknown.  (The  Chinese  translation  calls  the  Tathagata  GandJiaguna^ 
and  his  world  would  be  Sitgandhdvahhdsa  (L.).) 

1''  On  the  seven  kinds  of  treasure,  see  Mvy.,  No.  78. 

1'  That  is,  gods  {deva)  and  devils. 


lOi  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

diameter)  and  hole  for  tlie  string.  The  folio-number  20  is  at  the  left  edge  of  the 
obverse.  The  number  of  lines  is  nine  on  either  side.  The  paper  is  dark  with 
age  or  use.  The  writing,  in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  is  large  and  clear,  though 
not  very  elegant,  a  little  rubbed  and  smudged,  especially  on  the  reverse. 

The  text  has  been  identified  by  Dr.  Watanabe,  as  from  the  sixth  part,  Candra- 
garbha,  of  the  Mahasamnipata  Sutra  (Nanjio,  No.  63).  It  was  translated  into 
Chinese  by  Narendrayasas,  a  native  of  Udyana,  a.d.  566,  under  the  Northern  Tsi 
dynasty ;  see  Professor  S.  Levi's  Notes  chinoises  suv  I'lnde,  p.  9,  also  JA.,  1913,  II, 
p.  343.  The  passage  corresponds  to  III,  4,  foil.  7  (^^''-S  l'^'^  of  the  Tokyo  edition  of 
the  Tripifaka.  The  work  is  not  found  in  the  Bkah-hgyur,  which  has,  however, 
a  short  work  entitled  Can(h-agarbha-prajm-jjaramUcl-ritaJi(li/dna-sidra  (Ser.  phyin  \ 
foil.  176-7). 

It  reads  as  follows  '^ : — 

Obverse. 

1  {stha)  samgamya  sama(g'a)mya  j^arrtsjxtrrt  evam  aliuh  \.im  (e)tad  ih«Mya 

bliavisyamti  :  yad  bayam  imamny  adrsta-purvbani  rupani  pasyam^^ 
asruta-purvbas<5ca  ^a- 

2  Mah  (sr)nomali  na  ca  ka^ciyanite  •  yatha  Mara  papimarii  sva-bhavanad 

avatirya  Wia^avamtaiii  vandana||?/«^Jpasamkkrantas  catursu-r^  dbi- 
pesu  pusparii "  k.si- 

3  (^j)amiah)  jjitspa-varsaiii  pravarsamtah  yani  ca  puspani  catursv  dswra^- 

j3itresu  ]ira,{varsitani  taih)  puspai  sa|r?;^if(  by  asura-purah  parama :  * 
durgandlien^fi^^  u- 

4  ritali  parama-pajm-dhuma-rajas-imsu^-dhurfibbir  aptirita  dam^ama^aka- 

sari(srj9a/wV-v«sc?'A-«-')visamaA-.s'ikabhir  aptirita  ^ok-^kula-m^  anabhi- 

5  '/Ytmya-t  ^  tam-avrta  sarvbe  by  asura-purah  saiiivrttah  sarvbe  Ci^^surah. 


''■  [The  text  exhibits  the  same  irregularities  as  No.  5.  Thus,  in  obv.  1. 1,  plur.  for 
sing.,  in  hhavisyamti  ;  obv.  1.  2,  smomak  for  ^rnumuh  ;  anomalous  sandhi  in  paSi/dmd- 
inda  for  pasydmd srutct ,  also  rev.  1.  3,  rati  ilia  for  rat'ir  iJia  ;  superfluous  anusvara  in 
imdhivf  ;  single  and  double  dot  as  punctuation ;  I  for  v  in  yadhayam,  &c.  Others 
are  noticed  in  the  following  notes. — R.  H.] 

^  Euphonic  insertion  of  r ;  also  m  and  t  in  11.  4  and  5. 

^  Pnspdi'ii,  irreg.  mase.  ace.  plur.,  tov  Jjuspdni,  as  in  1.  3. 

*  The  a  in  catursvasura  ,  and  the  double  dot  titex  parama  are  clerical  errors  ;  read 
catursv  asura',  and  paraina-(lnrgandhei° .    [But  see  also  the  Note  on  pp.  62-3. —  R.  H.] 

'  Read  °rajas-dmHu  and  °srpdhi-vrscikd-  (see  footnote  6). 


CANDEAGAEBHA,  IN  THE  MAHASAMNIPATA  SUTEA     105 
stri-purusa-daraka-darikah     param-opadrav-opadrutah     sok-akula- 


m 


6  nabhiramyah  samsthitah  te  svaka-svakasu  vithisu  samgaraya  sama- 

gamy#asura-n7jnoh  purata  sthitba  pa^yamty  asura-rajanaiii  ^^xxx 

7  upadrutam  yavat^  Vaimacitro  'sura-raja  sarvli(a?)h  sva-rastra-nivasibhi 

stri-ptirusa-daraka-darikabhir  asuraih  saha  sa-parij2;ar«  xxxxx 

8  di  Vairocanas  c^^sura-raja  sarvbaih  sva-rastra-nivasibhi  si!n-purusa- 

daraka-darikabhir  asurai  saha  sa-parivara  iQx xxxxx  sam- 

9  sthan  dar^ayamasa «  :  drstba  ca  Rahur  asur-6ndro  Vaimacitro^  asura- 

rajanarii  prcchati  sa  aha  :  vikrtd  sarvbe  as||2<ra  xxxxx  sa- 

Eeverse. 

1  drsali  vayava  usna  agata  jvalana-sadrsah  ime  ca  pafZa^^a-phalah  ksiti- 

tala-patitah  ^uski^^ha  padmani^  jaladhara-sajrassie  rajasmmu-dhu- 

2  pena   sphuta    hy    asmakam    asura-bhavanah    maksika-darti^ama^aka- 

salabharii^  bahu-vividha-krmayali  etat  papa-svara  srnomi  vi  (xxx 

xxxxx 

3  kam  •   n#asti   rati   ih^^aiva  asura   bahu-duhkha-vihatali  sarvbe   trsa- 

hhiLksa,  "-pidita   asarana-duhkhitah   sarvbe   utrasta "    ^uska-hrc^ap 

ya  xxxxx X 

4  bhayaih  kasy«£iyam  prabhava  idrso  deva-na^a  asuraih  kena  up^ya^^ 

^akya  ^amiturh.  ima  idrsa-bhayam^  ma  iha  nagaksipra  jarjaxxxx 

5  ya  asuraih  Eahur  asur-gndrah  pr^ha :  bho  ^riiyatam  mama  vacanam 

sa  aha:  sarvbe  Iho  asura  bhusi"  sukhitarh '  kama-gunaih  parhcabhir^^ 
rddhya 

^  Note  the  peculiar  position  of  the  superscript  r  here  and  in  1.  4,  °srpd]imasdkd  ; 
also  in  rev.  1.  7,  vistpartlhma,  with  an  anomalous  insertion  of  t.     See  footnote  8,  p.  90. 

'  Read  Vaimacitram  ;  probably  a  clerical  error,  due  to  the  preceding  asureudro. 

*  Padniam,  for  padm-kft,  unless  it  is  a  clerical  error  ior  jiadmdiii. 

^   Superfluous  anusvara ;  also  in  stil-Aitdm,  1.  5,  ksayatdm,  11.  7,  8,  9. 

1°  Bhulisa,  hunger,  for  Skr.  htbhthd  ;  apparently  a  hitherto  unexampled  form  ; 
but  Mahavastu,  II,  p.  202^,  has  IhuJcsita,  hungry. 

1^  Read  tittrada  ;  correctly  uttraddh,  qualifying  amrdJi.  For  another  example 
of  omission  of  t,  see  footnote  17,  p.  99. 

'^   Vpdya  for  iqidyena. — Compare  panca  kdma-r/mid  in  Jataka,  II,  p.  60,  1.  6. 

'^^  Read  asurd  abhusi.     The  text  is  here  rather  smudged  by  interfering  traces  of 


106  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

6  virya-balena    saurya-dhanusa    asi-prasa-tomaraih    sphitah    karvbata- 

raccha  i*-grama-nigama  akirna-nari-naraih  saurya-dhairya-surupa- 
sthama  balavan^  ^^  de- 

7  vebhi  vistpardhina  ^  4  Esa  kala-ksayas  tath^^yu-ksayataiii  ^  satvehhya 

sitkla-ksayah  dhsuvma-Tpudbi^'^-k8a,{ya)  liry-a(pa)trapya  ^''-ksayatam  ^ 
vidba^^-ksayah  panditaih  ^^ 

8  kusala-carya-ksaya  kalyana-ksayataiii '  aryebhya  jnana-ksayah  sasya- 

naiii  ksaya  pusjsa'ausadhi-ksaya  phal«|v;wa»!y  rasa-ksayali  5  Sailanaiii 
ksa?/a  ratna-ka- 

9  ma-gunatam  ^^  tiirya-sv«ranam  ksayah  vastranaiii  ksayam  ^^  anna-pana- 

ksayatam  ^  harsa-pramoda  ^^-ksa^ali  devanaiii  ksaya  yaksa-manusa- 
ksaya  (/andharvb-asuranaiii 


TRANSLATION. 

(Obverse) having   assembled  (and)  congregated  they  to  one  another 

thus  spoke  :  '  What  is  this  (that)  here  to-day  is  going  to  happen ;  that  we  see  these 
forms  not  seen  before,  and  hear  sounds  not  heard  before,  and  that  no  one  knows, 
(namely)  that  Mara,  the  Evil  One,  descending  from  his  abode,  has  come  forward 
to  pay  his  respects  to  the  Blessed  One,  throwing  flowers  over  the  four  dvlpas, 
(and)  raining  a  rain  of  flowers  ? '  And  those  flowers  which  were  rained  over  the 
four  settlements  of  the  Asuras,  by  those  flowers  every  one  of  the  Asura  settlements 
was  filled  with  extreme  malodour,  was  filled  with  extremely  inauspicious,  smoky, 

letters  apparently  impressed  from  the  insufficiently  dry  writing  on  the  super- 
incumbent folio. 

i*  Apparently  Pali  nicc//d,  Skr.  ratliya. 

1^  Read  °balavad-develhi. 

^^  °ptulvi°  is  either  a  blundered  or  a  damaged  reading  for  °hiulcUii°. 

^"^  But  see  Mahavastu,  III,  p.  53,  1.  1,  Im'i  c-'Apatrapijam,. 

1^    Tidha  for  vidra,  anless,  more  probably,  it  is  a  clerical  error  for  vidi/a  {yidi/d). 

^^  Panditaih,  instr.  for  dat.  panditebliyah  ;  cf.  dat.  Haivebhja  in  the  same  line,  and 
dryeMya  in  1.  8.  The  vernacular  original  probably  had  panditelM  {sattehhi,  ariyehhi), 
which  would  be  both  instr.  and  dative. 

^^  Perhaps  read  kdmd-kmyaidili ;  the  error  being  due  to  the  occurrence  of  the 
phrase  above,  1.  5. 

^^  Ksayam,  anomalous  neuter,  unless  m  is  meant  as  an  euphonic  insertion,  as  in 
dhuld-m,  obv.  11.  4,  5. 

^^  Read  jiramoda,  to  suit  the  metre. 


CANDRAGAEBHA.  IN  THE  MAHASAMNIPATA  SUTRA     107 

dirty  particles  of  dust,  was  infested  with  stinging  flies,  creeping  snakes,  scorpions,^^ 
poisonous  fleas.  Agitated  with  grief,  incapable  of  joy,  overcome  with  gloom,  was 
every  one  of  the  Asura  settlements  ;  and  all  the  Asuras,  women,  men,  boys,  girls 
were  crowding  together,  afilicted  with  (these)  extreme  afflictions,  agitated  with  grief, 
and  incapable  of  joy.  Standing  together,  assembled  and  congregated  in  their  respec- 
tive streets,  they,  standing  before  their  two  Asura  kings,  see  the  Asura  king  .... 
afflicted— and  so  forth  down  to— Vaimacitra,^-'  the  Asura  king,  with  all  the  Asura 

inhabitants  of  his  dominion,  women,  men,  boys,  girls,  and  with  his  courtiers 

and  Vairocana,  the  Asura  king,  with  all  the  Asura  inhabitants  of  his  dominion,  women, 

men,  boys,  girls,  and  his  courtiers He  (Rahu)  saw  them  standing  together, 

and  seeing  (them),  Rahu,  the  overlord  of  the  Asuras,  questioned  Vaimacitra,  the 

Asura  king.      He  (i.e.  Vaimacitra)  said,  'Upset  are  all  the  Asuras (Reverse) 

.  .  .  -like  ;  hot  winds  are  come  flame-like  ;  and  these  fruits  of  the  trees  are  fallen 
to  the  ground ;  dried  up  here  are  the  lotuses  in  lakes  and  ponds  ;  with  dust  and  smoke 
are  filled  ^^  our  Asura  dwellings  ;  there  are  fleas,  stinging  flies,  locusts,  and  a  great 
variety  of  insects ;  this  inauspicious  sound  I  hear ;  verily  there  is  no  enjoy- 
ment here  ;  the  Asuras  are  afflicted  with  much  discomfort ;  they  all  are  tormented 
with  thirst  and  hunger  ;  they  are  in  pain  without  escape ;  they  all  are  alarmed  ; 
their  hearts  are  dry  through  (all  these)  alarms.  Whose  is  this  power  ?  Such 
is  the  injury  (caused)  by  the  Devas  ;  by  what  contrivance  is  it  possible  for  the 
Asuras  to  relieve  this  so  dire  alarm  ?  May  not  here  Nagas  quickly  come  to  eject  them, 
vying  with  the  Asuras  ?  '  ^^  Rahu,  the  overlord  of  the  Asuras,  replied :  '  Listen !  let  my 
word  be  heard ! '  He  (then)  said  :  (verse  4)  '  Listen,  all  ye  Asuras !  (formerly)  there 
used  to  be  happiness  through  pleasurable  exercise  of  the  five  senses,  of  magic  power,  of 
energetic  strength,  of  prowess  in  wielding  bow,  sword,  arrow,  and  lance  ;  prosperous 
were  the  capitals,  highroads,  villages,  (and)  market-places,  crowded  with  women  and 
men,  vying  with  the  powerful  Devas  in  prowess,  courage,  beauty,  and  strength. 
(Verse  5)  This  (now)  is  the  decay  of  time ;  there  is  decay  of  life  among  (all) 
creatures ;  decay  of  fecundity  ;  decay  of  order  and  intelligence  ;  decay  of  shame 
ajid  modesty;  decay  of  learning  among  the  savants j  decay  of  becoming  conduct; 
decay  of  well-being  among  the  respectable  people ;  decay  of  knowledge  ;  decay  of  the 
crop  of  the  fields  ;  decay  of  flowers  and  medicinal  herbs  ;  decay  of  juice  in  the  fruits  ; 
(verse  6)  decay  of  minerals  ;  decay  of  the  enjoyment  of  gems  ;  decay  of  the  sounds  of 


2^  The  text,  which  is  here  defective,  is  restored  and  translated  on  the  basis  of 
the  Chinese  version,  supplied  by  Prof.  Leumann. 

^*  Vaimacitra  is  Vemacitra  in  Mvy.  No.  172^,  Vemacitra  or  Vemaeitri  in  Dvy. 
1268,  14820,  Vemaeitri  in  Mst.,  Ill,  pp.  138^,  254»,  and  Vepacitti  in  Dlgha  and 
Samyutta  Nikaya,  and  in  the  Jataka  (see  Indexes). 


108  MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 

musical  instruments  ;  ^®  decay  of  garments  ;  decay  of  food  and  drink  ;  decay  of  joy 
and  gladness  ;  decay  of  Devas,  decay  of  Yaksas  and  men  ;  decay  of  Gandhiarvas  and 

Asuras  ; ' 

NOTE. 

[The  two  speeches,  beginning  in  obv.  1.  9,  are  in  verse.  That  of  Vaimacitra's 
inquiry  (obv.  1.  9  and  rev.  11.  1-4)  consists  of  three  verses,  as  shown  by  the  number  4 
(rev.  1.  7)  which  marks  the  first  verse  of  Rahu's  reply.  Their  metre,  however,  cannot 
be  determined  with  certainty,  owing  to  the  mutilation  of  the  text.  The  number  of  the 
surviving  aksaras  in  the  five  lines  is  174,  to  which  must  be  added  35  aksaras  (i.  e.  seven 
on  the  average,  lost  in  each  line),  making  a  total  of  209.  The  three  verses  in  question 
would  comprise  twelve  padas,  or  quarter  verses  ;  hence  dividing  209  by  12,  we  obtain 
17  as  the  number  of  aksaras  in  each  pada,  leaving  over  four  aksaras  which  are  required 
to  complete  the  beginning  of  the  prose  sentence  after  the  third  verse.  It  follows, 
therefore,  that  the  undetermined  verses  should  be  some  kind  of  the  Atyasti  class,  which 
contains  metres  consisting  of  17  aksaras  in  each  pada.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  no 
difficulty  in  determining  the  metre  of  the  three  verses  of  the  reply  of  Rahu,  the  text 
of  which  is  preserved  in  its  entirety.  It  is  the  well-known  Sardulavikridita,  which 
consists  of  19  aksaras  in  each  pada,  with  the  caesura  at  the  twelfth.  The  scansion  of 
the  metre,  however,  is  not  quite  correct  in  some  of  the  padas,  owing  partly  to  evident 
scribal  errors,  but  mostly  to  the  fact  that  the  Sanskrit  text  is  an  imperfect  translation 
from  some  vernacular  original.  Forms  like  s/iMa,  for  suh-a,  in  rev.  1.  7,  would  point 
to  the  vernacular  having  been  that  of  Magadha  (see  Introd.,  p.  xxxi). — R.  H.] 


7.  SUVAKNAPEABHASOTTAMA   SUTEA 

Hoernle  MSS.,  No.  143  «,  SB.  9,  and  No.  143,  SA.  16. 

These  are  two  folios  of  the  same  manuscript  pothi.  A  short  notice  of  them 
was  published  by  Dr.  Hoernle  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  for  1906, 
pp.  696-8.  The  second  (SA.  16)  is  complete,  measuring  410  x  93  mm.  (or  16j^o 
X  3f  inches).  The  first  (SB.  9)  is  a  fragment,  measuring  about  180  x  93  mm. 
(or  7  x  3f  inches),  and  therefore  being  about  three-sevenths  of  a  complete  folio. 
It  is  from  the  right  side  of  that  folio,  and  hence  bears  no  number.  Its  right 
margin  is  marked  off  by  an  inked  line,  which,  however,  is  not  regarded  by 
the  lines  of  writing.  The  latter  are  on  the  obverse  very  clear,  but  on  the  reverse 
much  defaced  by  sand- rubbing.  The  other  folio  (SA.  16)  displays  along  the  edge 
of  one  of  the  long  sides  a  few  irregular  gaps,  which  have  entailed,  on  the  obv.  11.  5> 

^^  The  original  text  has  turi/a,  i.  e.  Skr.  tuija  ;  Mst.,  Ill,  p.  122-'^''  has  twlya. 


SUVARNAPKABHASOTTAMA   SUTRA  109 

6,  and  rev.  11.  1,  2,  some  loss  of  text.  Irrespective  of  these  gaj^s,  the  text  is  on  the 
whole  very  well  preserved.  In  the  middle  of  the  left  half  there  is  the  usual  circle, 
of  about  29  mm.  (or  IJ  inches)  in  diameter,  with  the  hole  for  the  string.  Nearly 
vis-a-vis  on  the  right  half  of  the  obverse  side  there  is  a  double  circle,  with  an  inner 
diameter  of  30  mm.  (or  1|  inches),  and  with  slanting  spokes  in  the  intercircum- 
ferential  space,  perhaps  intended  to  enclose  a  drawing  or  miniature,  which  however 
was  omitted.  The  folio  number  98  is  on  the  left  margin  of  the  obverse  side.  The 
paper  of  the  two  folios  is  fairly  fresh ;  and  there  are,  on  either  page,  six  lines  of 
writing  in  the  Upright  Gupta  character,  and  in  a  rather  ornamental  hand. 

The  text  of  the  two  folios  is  from  the  Suvarna-bhas-ottama  Sutra,  perhaps  more 
commonly  known  as  the  Suvarna-prabhas-ottama  Sutra.  Two  manuscripts  of  it 
are  in  the  Cambridge  Collection  of  Nepalese  MSS.  (Add.  875  and  Add.  1342)  ; 
a  third  is  in  the  Hodgson  Collection  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  (No.  8) ;  and  a  fom-th 
in  the  Hodgson  Collection  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal  (No.  B.  9).  From  the 
latter  an  edition  has  been  published  in  the  Buddhist  Texts  of  the  Buddhist  Text  Society 
of  India  (Calcutta,  1898).  Two  passages  from  the  Sutra  are  quoted  in  the  Siksa- 
samuccaya  (ed.  Bendall,  in  the  Bibliotheea  Buddhiea),  pp.  160  and  216,  where 
both  elements  of  the  name,  b/idsa  and  prabMsa,  occur.  An  abstract  of  the  contents 
of  the  Sutra  is  given  in  E.  L.  Mitra's  Sanskrit  Buddhist  Literature  in  Nepal 
(Catalogue  of  the  ASB.,  Hodgson  Collection),  pp.  241-8.  There  exist  translations 
into  Chinese  (Nanjio,  Nos.  127, 130),  Tibetan  (Rockhill,  Life  of  Buddha,  p.  218)  and 
Mongol  (I.  J.  Schmidt,  Geschiehte  der  Ostmongolen).  Fragments  of  a  translation 
into  Khotanese  have  been  published  by  M.  P.  Pelliot  (fitudes  Linguistiques,  fasc.  iv, 
1913),  and  into  Uiguri,  by  Professor  F.  W.  K.  Miiller  (Uigurica,  pp.  10-35,  1908). 
Fragments  of  the  former  are  mentioned  by  Professor  Leumann  (Zur  nordarischen 
Sprache,  &c.,  p.  10,  1912). 

(1)  Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143  a,  SB.  9. 
This  fragment  comprises  portions  of  the  colophon  of  the  fifth  chapter  {parl- 
varta),  and  of  the  nine  initial  verses  of  the  sixth  chapter.  From  the  fact  of  the 
text  being  written  in  verse  (upajati  variety  of  tristubh)  it  can  readily  be  seen  that, 
allowing  for  the  vacant  space  of  the  string-hole,  from  21  to  26  aksaras  are  lost  from 
the  several  lines  of  writing.  In  the  subjoined  transcript  these  lost  syllables  are 
supplied  from  the  text  of  the  manuscript  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  (fol.  17), 
which  is  more  correct  than  the  printed  text  of  the  Indian  Buddhist  Text  Society.^ 
Neither  of  these  texts  is  satisfactory,  but  a  discussion  of  their  variations  and  defects 
seems  out  of  place  here.    Some  of  the  more  relevant  ones  are  noticed  in  the  footnotes. 

1  For  the  collation  of  the  Cambridge  MSS.,  Add.  875,  foil.  18^,  19  a,  and 
Add.  1342,  foil.  15  h,  16  a,  the  readings  of  which  also  are  referred  to  in  the  footnotes 


110  MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 

Obverse. 

1  Iti    Suvarnabhas6^ii\jnx\rAi?ih.  ^    sutr^[nc?]ra-rajne  ^    Hiranyavati-dhajYtni- 

TpSirivartto  {nd-) 

2  ma    paftcamah  *"  II      II  Atha    kha/u    Bhagavdn    tasydm    veldydm    imd    ^«||th 

<'kdhvahJiSiSits^  ^]]  Anyesu  sFdresu  acmiikQsu  (ativi-) 

3  starai'ii  desiia   sunya-dharmdh  I  tasmdd  ime   sutra-var-Sttame   ca   samksepat <to 

de^ita"  siinya-dharma(/i  1)    Satb-d{lpa-hud)dhi''  {av)i{jdna)ma{n)d  I 

4  jia  sakya  jiidtinh  khalu  sarva-dharmdm  yasmdd  dha  sutrmdra-var-Sttamena^ 

samksepato  de^ita  "  sunya-clharmah  2  Anyair  upayais  ca  nayai- 

5  s  ca  hetubhi  satvdna  ^  kdrunya-ras-6daydd  dha  1  prakdsitam  sutra-var-endram 

etad^  [yatha]  {v)i{j)diisimti  ha  sarvba-satbah  3  Kiyarn)  ca  kayo  yatha^ 

6  sunya-grdmah    sad-grdma  "^^-caur-dpama    indriydni  I  tdny  eva  grdme   nivasaniti 

sarve^na  (te  vijdnct)mti  parasparena  4  Caksy-endriyam"  rupa-gatesu 

Reverse. 

1  dhdvati  srotr-cndriyaih    sabda-vicdranena  I  ghrdn-endriyaih  gandha-vicitra-hd^ 

rl'^^  -^  j ihv-Siidrriyarh  nitya^^  rasesu  dhavate  5  Kay-@ndrriyarh  spa- 

2  rsa-gatesu    dhdvati    /nan-endriyam    dharma-vicdranena  I  sad    indriydii<-iti    j^ftO 

raspareyyA  "^  svakaiii  svakaih  visayam  anatikkranta  "  6 

to  the  text,  the  Editor  is  indebted  to  the  kindness  of  Miss  C.  M.  Ridding.  In  the 
old  palm  leaf  MS.,  Add.  2831,  the  passage  appears  to  be  missing. 

^  A  (prakritic)  abl.,  common  in  colophons,  but  awkwardly  associated  with  the 
following  locative.  ^  Read  rdje. 

*  All  three  MSS.  and  the  Calc.  print  have  suvarna-prahlidsottama-sutrendra-rdje 
kamaldJearo  ml  ma  sarva-tatJidgata-dava-jMiivarUfiJi. 

^  Read  °dd7ii/abl/dfd,  and  see  note  15  on  p.  114.    The  three  MSS.  read  ahJidsata. 

"  So  all  three  MSS.  ;  but,  with  Calc.  print,  read  de.nt&h,  m.c. 

"^  Read,  with  all  three  MSS.,  (juddhir  avi" ;  sandhi  as  if  from  luddhih  rati' ;  but  a 
better  construction  is  given  by  reading  sattvd  alpa-huddlu,  nom.  plur.,  masc.  or  neut. 

^  For  satvduum,  gen.  plur.,  m.c. 

'  For  ijatJul,   m.c.  ;  so  also  in  rev.  1.  5,  tathd. 

^^  The  two  Cambridge  MSS.  and  the  Calcutta  print  have  mt'ngrdina,  the  RAS. 
MS.  sagrdiiia  ;  but  no  doubt  md-grdma  is  intended,  as  below,  rev.  1.  3,  where,  however, 
all  the  MSS.  repeat  mvigrama. 

^■^  Read  caksv-inrlriyam  ;  see  footnote  1,  p.  88. 

^^  Read,  with  all  three  MSS.,  hdri,  neut. ;  they  too  have  nitya,  but  read  nityam. 

^^  Note  the  Khotanese  rr  here,  but  the  ordinary  /  in  1.  5. 

'*  Apparently  for  anatikkrantdni,  'not  overstepping'.  The  three  MSS.  read 
ahhidlidvati. 


SUVAENAPKABHASOTTAMA  SUTEA  111 

3  Cittam  hi  mdy-Spama-caficcdam    ca  sad-indriyam   visaya-vicdra'^{ll)Siii^^  ca  "^ 

yath^aiva  naro  dhavati  ^«mya-grame  -^  sad-graina-caureblii 

4  samdsritas     ca  7^'^  Cittam     yathd     sad-visay-dhitam     ca    prajdnate     iwc?r«^ya- 

gaucararii"  ca  mpas  ca"  sabda^  ca  tath^Siva  gandho  rasas  ca  spar^a- 

5  s  tatha '  dharma-gocaram  8  Cittam  ca  sarvatra  sad-indriyesu  sakunir  iva  calani 

iJndriya-sapravistaiTiy"  yaihtram  ca  yamtr  ^"i^^ndriya-sam^rtam^^  cat 

6  —na  c-f&ndriyam   kurvatu  jiidnam  dtmakam  9  Kay  a  ca  niscesta  nivydpdram^^ 

c«||(a)sarakah  prra[i(i/ft]ya-sambhava!5  ca  .  abliuta-parikalpa-sawu- 

TRANSLATION. 

[Obverse,]  Here  ends  the  fiftli  chapter,  named  HiranyavatI  Dharani,  in  the  Suvar- 
nabhasSttama,  the  king  of  foremost  Sutras.  Thereupon  the  Blessed  One  on  that 
occasion  spoke  the  following  gatha  verses  : — 

Verse  1.  In  other  Sutras  unthinkable  (in  number)  the  principles  of  the  Sunya 
doctrine  (of  Phenomenalism^*)  are  set  forth  at  great  length ;  hence  in  this  most 
excellent  Sutra  the  principles  of  the  Sunya  doctrine  are  set  forth  succinctly. 

Verse  2.  Beings  are  of  small  power  of  apprehending  (and)  are  without  under- 
standing ;  they  cannot  comprehend  forsooth  all  the  principles  ;  hence  by  means  of 
this  most  excellent  Sutra  the  principles  of  the  Sunya  doctrine  are  set  forth  succinctly. 

Verse  3.  By  other  expedients,^®  arguments,  and  reasons,  from  an  uprising  of  the 
feeling  of  pity  for  living  beings,  this  most  excellent  Sutra  is  published,  in  order  that 
all  living  beings  might  apprehend  (the  Sunya  doctrine). 

Verse  4.  This  body  is  like  a  deserted  village ;  ^^  the  six  senses  resemble  free- 


^^  Read  vicdranafi. 

1''  Here  all  the  MSS.  and  Calc.  print  inadvertently  repeat  the  pada  iwajcinate 
indriyugocaranam  ca ;  its  superfluity  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  its  retention  would 
increase  the  missing  aksaras  in  line  4  to  the  impossible  number  34,  while  its  omission 
yields  the  suitable  number  23.     The  RAS.  MS.  similarly  repeats  verse  2. 

"  Read  gocaram.  ^'*  Read  mjjafi  ca. 

^^  Read,  with  the  three  MSS.,  sampravistam. 

2"  The  three  MSS.  read  ?/af.ra  yatreiidriya. 

^^  Read,  with  the  MSS.,  samritaiii. 

^^  All  the  three  MSS.  agree  with  this  reading  of  the  pada,  against  the 
Calc.  print. 

2^  So  the  three  MSS. ;  but  read  nirvyaparaL 

'^^  See  B.  Psch.,  pp.  xxxv,  xxxvi. 

-'  That  is,  figures  of  speech,  such  as  freebooters  in  verse  4,  bird  in  verse  9. 

2^  Deserted  houses  or  villages  are  proverbially  in  India,  from  the  time  of  the 
Arthasastra,  a  resort  for  thieves. 


112  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

booters  in  the  village  ;  they  all  indeed  reside  in  the  village,  (but)  they  do  not 
recognize  one  another. 

[Reverse.]  Verse  5.  The  sense  of  sight  makes  for  things  endowed  with  form  ; 
the  sense  of  hearing  is  concerned  with  sounds  ;  the  sense  of  smelling  grasps  the 
manifold  odours  ;  the  sense  of  the  tongue  continually  makes  for  the  tastes. 

Verse  6.  The  body -sense "''  makes  for  things  amenable  to  touch ;  the  sense 
of  ideation  ^^  is  concerned  with  the  mental  objects.^*  These  are  called  the  six  senses  ; 
they  do  not  mutually  overstep  their  own  particular  spheres. 

Verse  7.  Thought,  again,  unsteady  like  Maya,  and  concerned  with  the  objects 
of  the  six  senses,  runs  about  like  a  man  in  the  deserted  village,  and  is  taken  up 
entirely  with  the  six  freebooters  of  the  village. 

Verse  8.  According  to  which  of  the  six  objects  thought  is  occupied  with, 
it  is  conscious  of  the  objects  of  the  senses :  form,  and  sound,  moreover  smell,  taste, 
and  tactility,  furthermore  mental  objects. 

^"erse  9.  And  thought  is  flitting  everywhere  like  a  bird  over  the  six  senses,  and 
settles  on  a  sense  as  an  instrument,  and  becomes  a  combined  instrument-sense ;  for 
(without  such  combination)  a  sense  cannot  produce  a  knowledge  of  its  own  (object) ; 

Verse  10.  And  the  body  is  without  motor  impulse  or  activity,  and  there  is  no 
real  basis  for  the  rise  of  consciousness. 

(2)  Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  16.  (Plate  XXI,  No.  3,  Reverse.) 
This  folio  comprises  a  portion  of  the  final  verse  (upendravajra  variety  of 
tristubh)  and  the  colojjhon  of  the  fourteenth  chapter,  and  the  prose  introduction  and 
the  six  initial  verses  (sloka),  together  with  a  portion  of  the  seventh,  of  the  fifteenth 
chapter.  In  our  folio  the  former  chapter  is  numbered  the  fifteenth,  which  is 
probably  a  clerical  error ;  otherwise  it  wovild  indicate  that  the  Sutra,  as  it  stood  in 
the  manuscript  to  which  our  folio  belonged,  included  a  chapter  which  is  not  now 
found  in  any  other  existing  manuscript.  The  obverse  text  of  om-  folio  occurs  also  in 
one  of  the  fragments  of  the  Mannerheim  MSS.,  and  is  edited  by  Professor  Reuter 
on  pp.  7  fF.  of  the  Journal  of  the  Finno-Ff^rian  Society,  xxx.  In  the  Hodgson  MS.  of 
the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  the  text  of  our  folio  stands  on  folio  55,  and  in  the  Calcutta 
print  on  pp.  69,  70.^  It  reads  as  transcribed  below  ;  the  missing  portions,  in  smaller 
italics,  are  supplied  from  the  RAS.  ^IS. 

"^  i.e.  skin-sensibility  ;  see  B.  Psch.,  pp.  172  and  lii,  note  1. 

^^  See  B.  Psch.,  pp.  18  and  xxxii ;  niaiienihiija  is  '  the  faculty  of  ideation  or 
representative  imagination ',  and  '  cUiarnia,  when  related  to  manas,  is  as  a  visual 
object  to  visual  perception — is,  namely,  mental  object  in  general '. 

^  See  footnote  1  on  p.  109.  The  passage  stands  in  Add.  875,  fol.  59  ab,  and 
Add.  1343,  foil.  50  b,  51  a.     In  Add.  2831  it  is  missing. 


SUVAKNAPKABHASOTTAMA  SUTEA  113 

Obverse. 

1  ja "  me  «rutam  su/r^f"*  "Qumoc?itam  ca  -^  yath-abhipr4yena  mi  ^  bodlii  * 

pr^ptaiii   sa-dharma-ka}'am   hi  maya   ca    labdhaiii  '>  32  ][  Suvarna- 
bhas-ottamatah "  su- 

2  tr^ndrSi-YEJne  ^      SM-samlhava-parivAYtto     namna     pamca(f7asfl.)mah  "^ 

samaptah  15  (o)  Athakhalu  Bhagavam''  ^riyo  mahsideYSita{y^^dmam-) 

3  tra^/ftmasa     yat  ka^cic  chrl-mahadevate  ^  ^raddhah  kulaputro  va  •  kiila- 

duhita  va  •  Sitit-kna(g)sitsi-Tpra,tju(t2:)a)nna- 

4  nam  Buddhaiiam  6/ia^avatanam  ^    acintya   ma/ictfi   vqml^  vistrirna^" 

sarvb-6pakaranaih  piijam  karttti-kamena  •  Si{ti)t-knd- 

5  gata  -  pratyutjjaioianam      JB[u]fZc7/iaDam      bha^ava^«j/i   <^  gamhhl{ra')h 

Bitddha-go\_ca]ra)m.    pr&isbnitu  ^'^-Jcmno    hliavd^    fen^dvaiyaiii    fatra 
prftdese  va  vihare  va  '^ 

6  i^aramnya^^-de^e  va -^  yativayaih  Suvavn'ei-hhds-d{ttamah  sZitv e^ndra-rd 

jd  vistarena  saiiiprakdsyate'^aMvyalc^V^pta-f1f^dtQ^'ftvah\t&r^'^  sro- 

Reverse. 
1  tren^ayam  Suvarna-bhas-ottamah  s«trendra-ra(jrt  hvtavyah  ii  Afha)k]ia^ 
hi    Bhagavan   imam  sarv-artham    bhwjasi  lya    ma-  "ifra^/c?^     (sam)pal■icZ^- 
payama- 

^  A  half-formed  m,  cancelled  by  a  vertical  line  passed  through  it  ;  similarly  in 
rev.  1.  5  a  badly  formed  th  cancelled  by  cross-lines.  From  the  Cambridge  MSS. 
supply  the  complement  Tatha  praindmi'ii  haJni-pnnya-gkaiulhai'u  yan,  and  amend,  with 
Cambridge  MS.,  Add.  1343,  me  sridain  c^AtljJii/aHiinioditaih  ca  ;  Add.  875  has,  also 
faultily,  c '■ydnum.oclHan  ca. 

^  mi  m.c,  prakritic  for  me  {mama),  see  Pischel's  Prakrit  Grammar,  §418,  p.  294. 

*  \bodM  seems  treated  as  neuter ;  so  also  rev.  1.  6,  stupam ;  cf.  aamAld/ii  ^re-^taiii, 
No.  2  b^,  p.  90.  The  Cambridge  MS.  Add.  875  also  has  the  neut.  °hiyai'ii.  lahdltam  ; 
but  it,  and  Add.  1342,  read  hodhi pruptd. — R.H.] 

■'  See  footnotes  2  and  3  on  p.  110. 

"  Apparently  an  error  for  catitrda\amaJt ,  as  in  all  the  MSS. 

^  Prakritic  for  hhagavdn,  and  below,  rev.  1.  6,  for  asmm. 

*  Originally  maliddev'i  had  been  written,  but  the  long  I  sign  is  deleted. 

^  Read  Ihagavattlm,  as  in  1.  5  ;  also  read,  with  the  three  MSS.,  acintydik,  °tlm, 
°Idm,  '^rndm.  ■"'  Read  risilriidm. 

^1  Prakritic  im  prajhdhim. 

1^  This  line  is  much  smudged  by  impressions  of  letters  on  the  superjacent  folio. 

1"'  Read  aranya  ;  so  also  in  rev.  1.  6,  dntare. 

^^  The  three  MSS.  and  the  Calc.  print  read  differently  ndviksipta-cittendrirahUa'^ ; 
but  the  reading  ndvydksipta-cltteyidvaliita  is  confirmed  by  the  Mannerheim  MS. 


114  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

2  nas    tasyam    velayam    imaiii    gatham    adhvabhasi^x "  1  Ya(cZ  i)cche 

[samha-]  Buddhanam  puj«}/i  (A(:6)rtum  ac['i]?//[/]A-«[7/i]  •  gambMra{m) 
sarvba-Buddhanaiii  gocaram  ca  prra- 

3  janitum^^  1  taiii  "  ca  des#6pasamkkramya  ^^  vihararii  lenam  eva  ca  '- 

yatra  deslyate  "  sutram  Suvarna-bhas-ottamam  "  nv  idam  2  Acinti- 
kam  idaiii 

4  sutraiii    anaiiita-gnnam    akaram^   mocakaiii   sarvba-satvanam   anekair 

duhklia-sagaraih  3  Adiiii  sutrasya  pa^yarni  maddhy-4nta-nidhanamta- 

5  ^  2     ^}|.-^ ,  atigaj/ibbira-sutr-6ndram    upam#a«ya    na    vidyate  "-  4    Na 

Gamga-rajasain  ^^   ca   na  dharanyam  na  ca  sagaram  na  c#ambara- 
tata-stliasya  •  kimcic  cha- 

6  ky-6.j''^makrtum  ^^    5    [DAa]rma-dhatu-prave^e   ca  pravestavyas  ^^  tatb- 

aiiintare  ^^  ^  }-atra  dharm-atmakam  stupaih*  gambhiram  su-pratistbi- 
taiii  6  Tatra  ca  sttipa-macZcZAye  'smivi ''  jxt-^' 

^^  [Read  arlliyallidfit.  The  curiously  misshapen  form  of  the  aksara  dhya  occurs 
also  in  the  preceding  fragment,  obv.  1.  2  (p.  110),  and  in  the  fragment  of  the  Bha- 
drapala  Sutra,  obv.  I.  7  (p.  89).  The  verb  adht/abhds°  is  very  commonly  used  in 
connexion  with  gdtlid,  see  e.  g.  L.V.,  pp.  IIS^".  124^  132',  140^2,  &c.,  Mst.,  I,  SS'', 
56",  &e.,  II,  66",  848>  ".  s",  3v,  ^^_^  m  ggi^,  3110^  3413,  &c.  In  fact  it  is  used  as 
frequently  as  the  simjDle  verb  abhdf.  The  verb  ahhyahhdf  also  occurs,  though  rarely 
(e.  g.  L.V.,  pp.  47*,  49*,  78^,  97*),  and  the  aksara  lliya  does  not  so  easily  account  for 
the  misshapen  dhva.  There  is  possibly  a  similar  clerical  error  in  No.  6,  rev.  1.  7, 
lidva  for  vidya.     The  three  MSS.  read  here  simply  abkdsata. — R.H.] 

^^  Note  the  Khotanese  rr  in  prrajdnitui'n,  and  see  footnote  13  on  p.  110. 

^'  Prakritic  for  tat  (tac),  conj. ;  and  for  desyafe,  pass,  causal. 

■"*  Correctly  desam  npasafiikramya,  which,  however,  would  not  have  suited  the 
metre.  The  aksara  mya  is  a  correction  by  a  later  hand  ;  originally  it  seems  to  have 
been  myi.  The  three  MSS.  have  a  different  reading  which  avoids  the  grammatical 
difficulty,  ya  icchet  .  .  .  .  sa  carec  cdpasainkrawya. 

"  Read  xvarna",  m.c. 

^"  Read  °rajumin  ;  the  final  I  is  m.c. ;  and  omit  the  second  na.  The  MSS.  read 
rajand  cuiva. 

^^  The  aksara  pa  had  been  missed  out,  and  is  written  in  the  margin,  below  1.  6, 
and  the  place  where  it  should  be  inserted  is  marked  by  a  small  cross  above  the  line. 
Prakritic  for  sakyatii  upamdkari iiin. 

"^  Read  pratesttavyas  (scl.  dharmadhdtu)  and  antaro.  The  RAS.  MS.  has 
prave.'ttavya  iadantaro ;  the  two  Cambridge  MSS.  have  praveqtavyam  tadantaraili. 
^loreover  all  three  MSS.  read  pravek'na.  The  Calc.  print,  apparently  quoting  the 
ASB.  MS.,  reads  pralcdAena. 

^^  The  complement  of  the  verse  in  the  three  MSS.  is  pasyet  Sdhyamunim 
jinam  \  idam  suiravi  prakCLsantai'ii  manojnena  svarena  ca. 


SUVARNAPRABHASOTTAMA  SUTRA  115 


TRANSLATION. 

[Obverse.]  Verse  33.  As  being  the  earnest  of  a  great  store  of  merits  {puitt/a- 
skandha)  tbis  Sutra  has  been  heard  by  me  and  approved ;  and,  according  to  its 
intention,  absolute  knowledge  {hodhi)  has  been  obtained  by  me,  and  with  it  the 
absolute  body  ^*  {dharma-kaya)  by  me  has  been  acquired. 

Here  ends  the  fifteenth  chapter,  named  Susambhava,  in  the  Suvarnabhasottama 
most  royal  Sutra. 

Thereupon  then  the  Blessed  One  addressed  the  excellent  Mahadevi,  '  if,  O  Maha- 
devi,  any  believing  noble  youth  or  noble  maiden,  from  a  desire  to  render  incon- 
ceivable, great,  abundant,  extensive  worship  with  every  means  (in  his  power)  to  the 
piast,  future,  and  present  blessed  Buddhas,  be  desirous  to  know  the  profound  Buddha- 
sphere  of  the  past,  future,  and  present  blessed  Buddhas,  he  must  necessarily,  wherever 
this  Suvarnabhasottama  most  royal  Sutra  is  proclaimed  in  full  detail,  whether  it  be 
in  the  country,  or  in  a  monastery,  or  in  the  forest,  [Reverse]  listen  to  this  Suvarna- 
bhasottama most  royal  Sutra  with  an  undisturbed  mind  and  an  attentive  ear.'  There- 
upon then  the  Blessed  One,  illimiinatiug  this  whole  subject  in  an  increasing  measure, 
spoke  on  that  occasion  the  following  gatha  verses ^^ : 

Verse  1.  Since  I  desire  to  render  unthinkable  worship)  to  all  Buddhas,  and  to 
know  the  profound  sphere  of  aU  the  Buddhas, 

Verse  2.  therefore  I  betake  myself  to  a  country,  or  a  monastery,  or  even  a  cave, 
where  this  Suvarnabhasottama  Sutra  is  taught. 

Verse  3.  Unthinkable  is  this  Sutra,  infinitely  good,  precious,  and  liberating 
all  living  beings  from  many  oceans  of  pain. 

Verse  4.  The  beginning  of  the  Sutra  I  see,  (but)  it  has  neither  a  middle  nor  an 
end  (i.  e,.,  it  is  illimitable)  ;  it  is  a  very  profound  Sutra  ;  like  it  there  exists  nothing. 

Verse  5.  Neither  the  sands  of  the  river  Ganga,  nor  the  ocean  ou  the  earth,  nor 
in  heaven  {lif.  what  stands  on  the  surface  of  the  sky)  can  anything  be  likened  to  it  ? 

^*  On  punyaskandlia,  bodhi,  dharmakdya,  and  dhantiadhdtu,  see  Suz.OMB., 
pp.  199,  294  ff.,'  256  ffi  and  115,  193  ff. ;  also  SBE.,  xlix,  p.  178,  and  Prof,  de  la  Vallee 
Poussin  in  JRAS.  for  1906,  pp.  946  if.,  where  other  references  will  be  found.  See 
also  p.  96,  footnote  24.  The  idea  in  verses  6  and  7  seems  to  be  that  the  study  of  the 
Sutra  serves  as  the  entrance  to  the  noumenal,  or  absolute  world  {ditarmadhdtu),  and 
enables  one  to  realize  the  absolute  [dharma).  In  the  Sutra  the  Jina,  or  Buddha,  in  his 
samhJwga-kdya,  speaks,  as  it  were,  to  the  human  bodhisattva  (see  Suz.OMB.,  pp.  267-8, 
272),  and  therewith  agrees  the  reading  (see  note  22)  prakd^ena,  '  for  the  sake  of  the 
proclamation  of  the  dharmadhatu,  let  its  interior  be  entered,  where  the  stupa  exists 
from  which  the  Jina  proclaims'. 

^■'  See  for  a  very  similar  phrase  L.V.,  p.  36,  1.  12. 

i2 


116  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

Verse  6.  And  by  the  entrance  of  the  nonmenal  ■wor\di{<l Jitiriiiadfiatu)  let  thus  its 
interior  be  entered,  where  a  profound  stupa,  representing  the  nonmenal  ((lliarmd), 
is  well  set  up.^* 

Verse  7.  And  there  in  the  middle  of  the  Stupa  one  may  behold  the  Jina  (sage) 
Sakyamuni  proclaiming  this  Sutra  with  a  pleasing  voice. 

8.  EATNARASI  SUTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SA.  17.  (Plate  IV,  No.  3,  Obverse.) 
This  is  a  nearly  complete  folio,  measuring  about  290x65  mm.  (or  ll-|x2i 
inches),  but  on  the  right  side  a  narrow  slip,  about  30  mm.  (or  1-|  inches),  which  had 
been  glued  on,  has  come  off,  and  is  now  missing.  The  blank  place  of  junction, 
(about  8  mm.  wide)  can  be  seen  on  the  Plate ;  beyond  it  the  slip  projected  aboat 
22  mm.  (or  %  inch),  and,  allowing  for  the  usual  blank  margin,  carried  on  the 
reverse  side  about  one  to  three  aksaras,  while,  on  the  obverse  side,  on  the  whole 
width  of  the  slip,  there  stood  about  two  to  four  aksaras.  The  entire  length  of  the 
folio,  including  the  projecting  portion  of  the  glued-on  slip,  must  have  been  about 
813  mm.  (or  12|-  inches).  The  missing  syllables  are  conjecturally  supplied  in  the 
transcript,  and  shown  in  smaller  italic  type.  The  folio  is  also  slightly  damaged 
along  the  right  half  of  the  bottom,  and  on  that  right  half  also  the  writing  is 
indistinct  through  sand-rubbing.  Otherwise  the  writing  is  black  and  well 
preserved.  It  is  in  a  small,  but  very  neat  calligraphic  hand,  in  Upright  Gupta 
characters,  and  in  five  lines  on  either  side.  The  folio  number  5  is  on  the  left 
margin  of  the  obverse. 

The  text  is  from  the  Ratnarasi  Sutra,  of  which  a  Tibetan  version  is  to  be  found 
in  the  Bkah-hgyur  {Bkon.  brtsegs,  vol.  S,  (vi),  foil.  261«-2985  of  the  India  Office 
copy).  The  part  contained  in  our  fragment  corresponds  to  foil.  265-6a.  The  Sutra 
was  translated  into  Chinese  in  a.d.  397-439  (Nanjio,  No.  23  (44),  col.  19).  Passages 
fi'om  the  Sutra,  outside  our  fragment,  are  cited  in  the  Siksasamuccaya  of  Santideva ; 
see  the  Index  to  the  edition  by  the  late  Professor  Bendall. 

The  text  of  our  folio  with  the  Tibetan  version  in  parallel  columns,  runs  as 
follows : — 

Obverse. 


Sanskrit. 

saiiimoham     nigacchati  •  8     ime 

Ka^yapa      astau       ^ramana  - 

dbarm-Elvaranas     te     pravra- 

jitena  parivarjayitavyah  ][  iV* 


Tibetan. 
Ituri  •  ba  •  ste  i  Hod  •  sruri  •  brgyad  - 
po  •  hdi  •  dag  •  ni  •  dge  •  sbyoii  •  gi  • 
chos  •  kyi  ■  sgrib  •  pa  •  ste  i  rab  •  tu  • 
byuii  ■  bas  •  de  •  dag  •  yoiis  •  su  • 


EATNAEASI  StJTEA 


117 


Sanskrit. 
ihaiii      Ka^yapa     sra(mana)- 


lin 


ga-sams' 


^^ 


anain  ida- 


2  m  iti  vadami  •  guna-dharmaiii  ^ 
pratipaty«4ham  Ka^yapa  sra- 
manam  iti  vadami  •  sramanena 
Kasyapa  kaye  'smim  kasaya"  ^ 
dhdra{yam)aRen&  mska^sdye- 
na  ^  te- 


3  na    bhavitavyam  •  tat     kasmad 

dhetoh  iiiskasayasya  Kasyapa 
kasayam  anujnatam,^  yali  ka§- 
cit  Kasyapa  sa-kasaya/t  kaye 
'smim  ^  Jcdsa^yaih  dhdraya- 

4  ti   anyatr«a^ay«adhimuktya  sar- 

varhs  tarn  *  kasaya-dagdhan 
iti  vadami  tat  kasmad  dhetoh 
aryanamm  ^  esa  Kai^yapa  dhva- 
jaA  \x^2bsamm.^-d[nuhu)lo  maitr- 
d{nu)l£yukta  "  i- 

5  ti     viraga  -  caritanaiiim  '      etani 

vastra(n)i  •  tatra  Kasyapa  ya 
aryanam  dhvajas  taiii*  ^rnusva* 
dvada^^eme  Kas^yapa  aryanam 

^  Read  praiipadj/a,  and  note  the  curious 
position  of  the  anusvara  in  dliarmam. 

^  71  was  omitted,  and  is  supplied  above 
the  aksara  dlid. 

^  Read  nhkamyena. 

*  Prakritic  for  asmin  ;   tan. 

®  Read  dri/dnum  ;  upasam°  ;  caritdndm. 

^  See  P.  Dy.,  s.  v.  rnetta. 


Tibetan, 
span  •  bar  •  byaho  i  Hod  •  sruh 
dge  •  sbyoh  •  gi  •  kha  •  dog  ^  •  dan 
rtags  •  kyi  •  dbyibs  •  kyis  •  dge 
sbyon  •  zes    ha  •  mi  •  hchad  •  kyi 
yon  •  tan  •  gyi  •  chos  •  la  ■  nan  •  tan 
byed  •  pahi  •  dge  •  sbyoh  •  ni  ■  dge 
sbyoh  ■  zes  •  has  •  b^ad  •  do  ii  Hod 
sruh  •  dge  •  sbyoh  •  gis  ■  ni  •  rnog  •  pa 
med  •  pahi  •  sems  •  kyis  ^  •  Jus  ■  la 
dur  •  smrig  •  dag  •  bcah  ■  bar  •  byaho  i 
de  ■  cihi  •  phyir  •  ze  •  na  i  Hod  •  sruh 
rnog  ■  pa  •  med  •  pa  •  la  •  has  •  dur 
smrig  •  gnah  •  gi  i  Hod  •  sruh  •  riiog 
pa  •  dah  •  bcas  •  pahi  •  lus  •  la  ^  •  dur 
smrig  •  dag  •  hchah  • 
de    dag  •  thams  •  cad  ■  dur  ■  smrig 
tshig  •  paho  •  zes  •  b^ad  •  de  i  bsam 
pas  ■  mos  •  pa  •  mams  •  ni  •  ma-gtogs 
so  n  de  •  cihi  •  phyir  •  ze  •  na  i  hdi 
[265  ?)]ni  ■  hphags  ■  pa  •  rnams  •  kyi 
rgyal  •  mtshan  •  yin  •  pahi  •  phyir  •  te 
skyo  *  ■  zih  • 

hdod  •  chags  •  dah  ■  bral  •  bar  •  spyod  ■ 
pa  ■  rnams  •  kyis  •  gos  •  hdi  •  dag 
ni  •  ne  •  bar  •  zi  •  bahi  •  rjes  •  su 
mthun  •  pa  ■  byams  •  pahi  •  rjes  •  su 


^  Tib.  inserts  varm  [kha  ■  dog)  between 
sramana  and  linga. 

^  Tib.  reads  niskasdyena  maiiasd  [rfiog  • 
pa  ■  med  ■  pahi  ■  sems  ■  kyis). 

^  Tib.  has  sa-kasdija-kdye  [rnog  •  pa  • 
dan  ■  bcas  .pahi  •  lus  •  la). 

*  Tib.  inserts  either  soka  or  upaidpa 
(skyo)  before  virdga. 


118 


MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


Sanskrit. 

dhvaja.]}    [l'ntam)e  (rZi;)d(c?a-)l| 
Sa  •  ta- 


Tibetan, 
zugs  5  •  paho  1  •.•  Hod  •  sruii  •  de  •  la  • 
hphags  •  pa  •  rnams  •  kyi  •  rgyal  • 
mtshan  •  gan  •  ze  •  na  i  Hod  •  sruri  ■ 
bcu  •  gnis  •  po  •  hdi  •  dag  •  ni  •  hphags- 
pa  ■  rnams  •  kyi  •  rgyal  •  mtshan  •  te  i 


Eeverse. 


1  pa  aryanaiii  dhvajam^'  1  samadhir 
aryanaih  dhvajah  2  prajna 
aryanam  dhva;iah  3  vimuktir 
aryanarh  dhvajah  4  vimukti- 
jnana-dar^anam  arjanam  dhva- 
jah 5  saty-^vatara  0^-ymidni 
dhvajah  6 


2  pratitya  -  samutpad  -  ^nubuddhy- 

'  Neuter,  to  suit  tapas;  otherwise 
masculine  ;  as  neut.,  dhvaja  is  exceedingly 
rare  ;  see  M.  Williams's  Skr.  Dy.  The 
curve,  or  prone  comma,  placed  over  the 
aksara  m,  does  duty  for  both  the  numeral 
one  and  the  sign  of  virama. 


bcu  •  griis  •  gaii  •  ze  •  na  ^  i  Hod  • 
srun  •  tshul  •  khrims  •  hphags  ■  pa  • 
rnams  •  kyi  •  rgyal  •  mtshan  •  dan  i 
till  •  lie  •  hdzin  •  hphags  •  pa  •  rnams  • 
kyi  •  rgyal  •  mtshan  •  dan  \  ^es  •  rab  • 
hphags  •  pa  •  rnams  •  kyi  •  rgyal  • 
mtshan  •  daii  i  rnam  •  par  •  grol  •  ba  • 
hphags  •  pa  •  rnams  •  kyi  ■  rgyal  • 
mtshan  ■  daii  irnam  •  par  •  grol  •  bahi  ■ 
ye  -  ses  •  mthoh  •  ba  -  hphags  •  pa  • 
rnams  •  kyi  •  rgyal  •  mtshan  •  dan  i 
bden  ■  pa  •  la  •  hjug  •  pa  •  hphags  •  pa  • 
rnams  ■  kyi  •  rgyal  ■  mtshan  •  dan  i 
'  rten  •  ciri  ■  hbrel  •  bar  •  hbyufi  •  ba  • 

°  Tib.  has  npa^amdnuhulo  maitrdnn- 
yukto  (ne  ■  bar  •  Si  •  hahi  •  rjes  ■  su  ■  mtJimi  • 
pa  ■  hyams  ■  pain  •  rjes  ■  su  ■  zugs).  It  has 
ke  drydnmn  dlivajds,  and  omits  tan  ypinxra. 

^  Tib.  has  'what  twelve?  Morality, 
{Hla  in  place  of  tapaJi),  Kafyapa,  is  a 
banner  of  the  Aryas.' 

'  Tib.  here  differs  considerably,  giving 
as  successive  dhvajas,  rten  ■  cin  ■  hbrel -bar- 
hhyith  ■  la  •  hjug  ■  pa  {pratltyasamvtjpdddva- 
tdrd),  bsam  ■  gtan  ■  bzi  (catvdri  dhydndni), 
tshad  •  med  ■  pa  ■  bzi  [catvdri  apramdndni  ?), 
gzugs  ■  med  •  pahi  ■  sgoms  •  par  ■  hjug  ■  pa  •  bzi 
(catvdro  'rupabhdvandvatdrdh  ?),  skyon  ■ 
med  -pa  ■  la  ■  hjug  ■  pa  {adosdvatdra  ?),  zag  ■ 
pa  •  zad  .  pa  {asravaksaya). 


EATNARASI  SUTKA 


119 


Sandirit. 
anata  aryanam  dhvajah  7 
catbaro  brahma-vihara  arya- 
narii  dhvajah  9  *  catbari 
dhyanani  aryanawi  dhvajah  9 
catasra  arupya-p.sa?/«a- 

3  pattaya  aryanam  dhvajah  10 
niyam  -  ^vakkrantir  aryanam 
dhvajah  12  ime  Ka^yapa 
dvada^i^aryEtT'  ^  dhvajah  tatra 
Ka^yapa  yo  bhiA;sMr  ebhir 
dharmair  ajwantt- 


4  gatah  aryanarh  dhvajaih  kasaya- 

vastram  kaye  dharayati  tarn 
ahaiii  vitatha  -  dharma  -  prati  - 
pannam  iti  vadam?  •  uddara  ^°- 
dharma-vihariwam  i^i  vadami  • 
taJ^Aa^a^a- 

5  ^asana-du-sthitam      iti     vadami 

iiirvana-paksa-vipaksa-s  thi  tarn 
iti  vadami  •  sarhskara^°-paks - 
anuktilam    iti  vadami  •  mara- 

8  Read  8. 

^  nd?h,  which  had  been  omitted,  is 
added  above  the  line,  and  the  place  of 
insertion  indicated  by  three  dots. 

^°  Probably    read    samsara    with    the 
Tibetan,  which  has  hkhor  •  ha. 


Tibetan, 
la  •  hjug  •  pa  •  hpliags  •  pa  •  rnams 
kyi  .  rgyal  •  mtshan  •  daii  i  bsam 
gtan  •  bzi;  hphags    pa  ■  rnams  •  kyi 
rgyal  •  mtshan  ■  daii  i  tshad  •  med 
pa  •  bzi  •  hphags  •  pa  •  rnams  •  kyi 
rgyal  •  mtshan  •  daii  i 
zugs  •  med  •  pahi  •  sgoms  •  par 
hjug  •  pa  ■  bzi  •  hphags  •  pa  •  rnams 
kyi  ■  rgyal  •  mtshan  •  dan  i  skyon 
med  •  pa  •  la  •  hjug  •  pa  •  hphags 
pa  •  rnams  ■  kyi  •  rgyal  ■  mtshan 
dan  I  zag  •  pa  •  zad  •  pa  •  hphags 
pa  •  rnams  •  kyi  •  rgyal  •  mtshan 
te  I  Hod  •  srufi  •  bcu  •  gnis  •  po  •  hdi 
dag  •  ni  •  hphags  ■  pa  •  rnams  •  kyi 
rgyal  •  mtshan  •  no  ii  ^  Hod [2 6 6  a] 
sruh  •  gari  •  la  •  la  •  rgyal  •  mtshan 
hdi  •  dag  •  dan  •  Idan  •  par  • 
hphags  •  pahi  •  rigs  •  gos  •  dur 
smrig  •  dag  •  hchan  •  ba  •  de  •  ni 
nor  •  bahi  •  chos  •  la  •  zugs  •  paho 
zes  •  has  •  b^ad  •  do  ii  chos  •  dan 
hgal  •  bar  •  gnas  •  pa  ■  zes  •  b^ad 
do  ^  II  de  •  bzin  •  g^egs  •  pahi  • 
bstan  •  pa  •  las  •  riri  •  du  •  gnas  •  pa 
zes  •  b^ad  •  do  ^°  ii  mya  •  nan  •  las 
hdas   .   pahi  •   phyogs  •  kyi  •  mi 
mthun  •  pahi  •  phyogs  •  la  •  gnas 

^  Tib.  hsuB  tfatra  Ka,syapaya  ehhir  dhva- 
jair  (sic)  upeta  dryakulavastrakamydni 
dharayati. 

'  Tib.  gives  dharma-virodha-sthitam  (?) 
for  uddaradharmavihdrinam. 

^^  Tib.  has  buddha-sdsana-dura-sthitam 
for  tatJidgata-sdmna-du-sthitam. 


120  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

Sanskrit.  j  Tibetan. 

bacS^a  "-grastam     iti     vadaj  '  pa  •  zes  •  bsad  •  do  ii  hkbor  •  bahi  • 
mi  •  phyogs  •  datJ   •  mtbun  •  pa  •  zes  • 

bsad  ■  do  II  ria  •  rgyal  •  gyi  ■  mthil  • 
bas  ■  zin  •  pa  ■  zes  ■  bsad  •  do  •  i  ^^ 

"  Read  duiUsu.  "  Tib.  replaces    mdra-haMa    {  =  mdm- 

varjii-a)  by  mdnalcaratala  (?). 


TRANSLATION. 

[Obverse.] falls   into   infatuation.     These,  O  Kasj^apa,  are  the  eight 

hindrances  ■'^  to  observing-  the  principles  of  a  Sramana :  they  must  be  abandoned 
by  one  who  has  abandoned  the  world.  Nor  do  I,  O  Kusrapa,  speak  as  setting  up 
a  mark  of  a  Sramana.  By  his  practising  the  principles  of  virtue,  0  Kasyapa, 
do  I  judge  any  one  to  be  a  Sramana.  A  Sramana,  O  Kasyapa,  who  wears  the 
yellow  robe  on  his  body,  must  be  free  from  (moral)  stain.  For  what  reason  ? 
To  the  stainless,  O  Kasyapa,  the  yellow  robe  has  been  allowed.  Whoever, 
0  Kas3'apa,  (being  soiled)  with  stains,  wears  the  yellow  robe  on  his  body,  save 
with  a  steady  resolve  (to  keep  his  duties);  all  such,  I  say,  are  burned  by  those  robes. 
For  what  reason  ?  For  the  Elect,  O  Kasyapa,  it  is  their  banner  ^^ ;  they  are  the 
garments  of  those  that  practise  renunciation  (symbolizing)  that  they  are  disposed  to 
calmness,  that  they  are  devoted  to  friendliness.  Now,  O  Kasyapa,  listen 
to  what  are  the  banners  of  the  Elect.  Twelve,  O  Kasyapa,  are  these  banners  of  the 
Elect.  What  twelve  ?  [Reverse.]  (1)  Asceticism  is  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  (2)  self- 
concentration  ^*  is  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  (3)  wisdom  is  a  banner  of  the  Elect ; 
(4)  emancipation  is  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  (5)  knowledge  of  and  insight  into 
emancipation  is  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  (6)  incarnation  of  truth  is  a  banner  of  the 
Elect ;  (7)  firm  ■'*  recollection  of  the  chain  of  causation  ^^  is  a  flag  of  the  Elect ; 
(8)  the  four  perfect  states  ^''  are  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  (9)  the  four  (kinds  of)  mystic 


^^  Five  dvarana,  or  hindrances,  are  mentioned  in  Dvy.,  p.  378,  1.  4,  and  in  S.S., 
p.  90,  1.  6  and  note  2.     A  twofold  division  is  mentioned  in  Dh.S.,  No.  115. 

1^  For  the  metaphorical  use  of  dhvaja,  banner,  see  S.S.,  p.  134, 1.  6,  and  Mst.,  vol. 
iii,  p.  65,  1.  4. 

^*  On  this,  and  the  three  following  items,  see  Dh.S.,  No.  23  ;  also  Mvy.,  No.  4, 
Mv.,  I,  36,  2  (p.  62,  transl.  pp.  182-3). 

^'  The  word  anatd  is  obscure;    perhaps  a  false  reading  for  avatdra. 

i«  See  Dh.S.,  No.  42.  "  See  P.Dy.,  p.  95  a,  also  p.  70  a. 


EATNARASI  SUTEA  121 

meditation  i*  are  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  (10)  the  attainments  of  the  four  incorporeal 
states!^  are  a  banner  of  the  Elect ;  ^^  (12)  entrance  upon  a  course  of  asceticism ^^  is 
a  banner  of  the  Elect.  These,  O  Kasyapa,  are  the  twelve  banners  of  the  Elect. 
Now,  O  Kasyapa,  that  monk  who,  not  observing  his  principles,  wears  on  his  body 
the  yellow  robe  which  is  the  banner  of  the  Elect,  him  I  declare  to  be  devoted  to  false 
principles  ;  him  I  declare  to  be  practising  heretical  ^^  principles ;  him  I  declare 
to  be  badly  observing  the  commandments  of  the  Tathagata;^^  him  I  declare  to 
be  taking  a  stand  with  the  partisans  opposed  to  the  party  of  Nirvana  ;  him  I  declare 
to  be  well-disposed  towards  the  partisans  of  Samsara  ;  him  I  declare  to  be  seized 
by  the  hook  of  the  Evil  One 


9.  AN   UNIDENTIFIED   FRAGMENT 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143  «,  SB.  2.    (Plate  XX,  No.  3,  Obverse.) 

This  is  an  incomplete  folio,  measuring  270x120  mm.  (or  101x4^^  inches), 
being  short,  to  judge  by  its  similarity  to  No.  6  {ante,  p.  103),  by  about  one-third  on 
the  right  side.  In  the  left  half,  about  88  mm.  (3|  inches)  from  the  left  edge,  there  is 
the  usual  circle  (27  mm.  or  1-j^  inches  in  diameter)  and  hole  for  the  string.  There 
are  practically  no  margins;  consequently  the  folio-number  106,  on  the  left  edge  of 
the  obverse  side,  trenches  on  the  space  of  the  fifth  line  of  writing.  The  writing, 
nine  lines  on  either  page,  in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  is  clear,  though  not  elegant, 
very  similar  to  that  of  fragment  No.  143  a,  SA.  10  (No.  6,  p.  103),  apparently  by  the 
same  hand. 

The  text,  written  in  a  curiously  debased  dialect,  is  astrological.  It  names 
a  Rishi  Kharusta,  with  reference  to  whom  we  may  take  note  of  the  researches  of 
Professor  Sylvain  Levi  in  the  Bulletin  de  FJEcole  Fran^aise  d'Eostreme  Orient, 
vol.  iv,  pp.  543-79,  especially  p.  565.     As  will  be  seen,  the  'mixed  dialect'  is  here 

"  See  Dh.S.,  No.  72. 

13  In  the  four  brahmalokas,  P.Dy.,  p.  58  a.     See  Dh.S.,  No.  82. 

^^  The  eleventh  banner  is  missing  in  the  text ;  compare  the  Tibetan  version. 

21  Cf.  S.S.,  p.  270,  1.  4  ;  also  p.  374. 

22  The  text  has  ucldara,  an  otherwise  unknown  word.  The  context  requires 
a  word  with  a  bad  sense,  such  as  '  heretical '.  Perhaps  derived  from  uddara  or  avadara 
from  V vddf  or  avadf,  'split'  ;  cf.  Prakrit  dara  for  Skr.  dara.  There  is  also  urdara, 
a  rilksasa. 

2'^  The  text  has  du-sthiiam,  which  may  be  correct ;  but  it  might  be  a  clerical 
error  for  dura-sthitam,  '  far  removed  from ',  which  is  suggested  by  the  Tibetan  ;  see 
footnote  10. 


122  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

very  corrupt,  and  in  some  places  the  meaning  is  obscure.    Also  note  that  throughout 
this  fragment  r  is  replaced  by  the  Khotanese  rr. 

[The  greater  part  of  the  text  is  metrical :  there  are  considerable  parts  of  the 
Dandaka  stanzas,  numbered  85-95.  Up  to  the  present  the  Dandaka  metre — also 
called  Skandhaka  or  Vestaka — has  been  traced  only  in  Jain  literature,  and  in  a  few 
texts  of  the  Northern  Buddhists  and  of  the  Brahmans.  'There  are  many  varieties 
of  the  metre  :  either  the  lines  may  be  of  separate  and  varying  length,  or  there 
may  be  stanzas  containing  tetrads  of  lines  of  some  particular  type.  The  varieties  of 
the  first  kind  have  been  discovered  in  the  Jaina  canon  by  Professor  Jacobi  (see 
Weber's  Indische  Studien,  pp.  389-441).  Any  Dandaka  line  consists  of  a  series 
(or  stick,  clanda)  of  feet,  each  foot  having  four  morae.  In  the  stanzas  of  our 
fragment    each    line    comprises    four   such    feet,    and   their    general    scansion    is 


iha  pracu-  |  ra  citra  |  mrgasiri  |  sravanam  j|  87f/  verse 
ksuras  |  ca  karma  |  sata  var-  |  jayataih  ||  88th  verse 

There  are,  hovs^ever,  many  irregularities.  But  to  discuss  these  here  is  scarcely 
possible  ;  for  a  full  insight  into  the  metrical  structure  of  our  fragment  is  prevented 
both  by  its  extensive  lacunas  and  by  its  ungrammatical  language. — L.J 

The  text  reads  as  follow  : — 

Obverse. 

1  Purvba-bhadrravati  ii  Rsi-brrate  gandharvba-devati  Asvini  trrisi  muliur- 

ta-caritrrautasis  tvarn  5  Ma^sa-knmam^ 

2  ra(^s)itva  prranavati  sukha   salisatam    yo  tu  dba  caramana  jayamti 

prraja  6  Ausata-yoga-vip 

3  la  tasya  garbh-adhanam  iha   prracura  Citrra  Mrgasiri  Srravanaiii  7 

Nidhanaiii  Punarvbasi  Svata  Sata(5?i-)if^.sd 

4  vivati-kalaha-ksuras  ca  karma-sata  varjayatarh  8  Vipa-kara  Kirttiya 

Phalffuni  Aiisdda 

o      •  :;.^-      ■ 

n 

5  ksna-karmani  maga  krtva  drdhaiii   sarh^jakara   Ptirvba-phalguni   iha 

Piirvba-asada-Bha'  [drravati 

6  yu   guhya-marga-vrrajana-sadhaua   Ardrra-Dhanistha-yota   90  Kurya 

atrra  sarvba-rndria-karmarini 
7atrra  drdha-parama-mitrra  Asle.sa  Jista  carii  91   Uttara-bhadrra(i;a^)i 
trtiy^^ha  bhave  kurya  so(5/i)| 


AN  UNIDENTIFIED   FEAGMENT  128 

8  tva-hiti  yatha-ka?^mam  jiiatva  vivitas  ca  vidu  92  Yaraa-devati  puna 

caturdi^a  vrraje  jatha  purvba-kr(2/cn)|| 

9  hitena  kry^aiyaiii  yatha-nirdista  purvba  sura-manuja-rsayaiii  trrlmsi 

ratrrait  masa  purna  sama  diShasa 


E 


leverse. 

1  cchaya  parivartati  ca  iha  A^vini  ratrri  najati  Aiiuradha  Suryam  ei{grra) 

tu  daksina-disa  afi 

2  trra  sura-risi  pr6tsahita  tvarii  ca  eta  mdseb  ksitrra  raksa  nrna  bhujaga 

waksa  94  Bhrscika  ditxxrB 

3  gi  sthapita   liaurattaya   samanugrraha-cari  desi  desi  sthapita  karmi 

saina-visam-finukulil 

4  nukula  95 1[  Atba  Kharustaiii  risi  sarvba  prrariijali-krtva  parsa  vijnapa- 

yaii  abaj 

5  trra-hora-rasi-sthana-krrama-parivarta-cari  drsta-srruia-vijnata  evaiii  ca 

etarhi  (?*«)iil 

6  pti  naksatrra-grraba-cari   tusti  anumodata  \xt<-k\\o  n«aiti  atba  tavaiii 

c#a^va  sarvbaj 

7  jali-prranamya    evam   abus    tvaiii  bbo   sarvba-deva-guru   sa-sur-&sure 

jagati  ^rr^sto  asadr^a-«i(c?Z)ft)  J?i 

8  tva-bit-£irsi  sarvba-^rya  sampanno  sarvba-guna-paraga  sarvba-tr-adhva 

samate-yukto  'si  na  ca  ka||sd< 

9  jnana  eva-rapa  ratrri  -  divasa-ksana-naksatrra-grraba-masarddha-masa 

prrajiiapayitu  yatha-s  tvamQ 

NOTES. 

Obverse.  Line  1.  Blmdrravati  =  bhadrapada,  as  devati  for  devatd,  and  in  1.  2 
ausata  for  ausadha.  Muhurta  for  vmliurta  ;  long-  vowels  are  mostly  shortened  in  our 
fragment;  so  1.  2  rah&itva,  11.  6,  7  km-ya,  1.  'i yatha  &c.,  and  e  becomes  i,  as  in  1.  7 
Jista,  &c.  Matsa=i7natsya,  12th  sign  of  zodiac  ;  himdm  =  human  (?  kanya),  6th  sign. 
Verse  number  5  for  85  ;  the  decade  figure  for  80  is  omitted  down  to  1.  6,  where  we 
have  90. 

Line  2.  Rahitva  for  °tvd ;  so  in  1.  8,  jfidiva,  rev.  1.  4  krtva.  Bba  =  dvau. 
Ausata-yoga  —  ausadha-yoga. 

Line  3.  CUrra,  mrgasiri,  sravanam  =  citrd,  mrgaSird,  sravand  ;  so  also  jiunarvbasi, 
svata  =  punarvasu,  svdti. 


124  MISCELLANEOUS   PEAGMENTS 

Line  4.    Vivrdi  =  vivdda ;    Kirttiya  —  Krttikd.     Read  viimt-liara. 

Line  5.  Read  tiJcsiia-karmdni  and  sampat-kara ;  t  was  omitted  originallyj  and 
afterwards  inserted  above  ka,  though  wrongly  in  the  form  of  ».  Maga  =  mdrgam  (?)  ; 
dsd  a  =  dsddhd. 

Line  6.  Marga  =  mdrga,  note  the  position  of  r,  see  footnote  8,  p.  90 ;  ardrraP  = 
drdrd-dhanisthd  ;  yota  =  yotram  or  yoktram,  at  end  of  compound  ;  kurya  =  kiirydt. 

Line  7.  /w^a  r=jyesthd  ;    bhadrravati  as  in  1.  1. 

Line  8.  Read««^2;a-/i?i!e(?).  Vivitds  ca  vidu  —  vividhdi  ca  vidavah  [7) ;  yamadevati 
as  in  1.  1. 

Line  9.  Kryaiyam  =  /^r;^a  «yam  (?) ;  trrlihSi  rdtrau  =  trimSydr'n  rdtrau  (?) ;  rsaydm  = 

^M?)-       ■   .  ■■     .    . 

Reverse.  Line  1.  Cchdyd  jparivarttati  iha  ahini  rdtrim  nayati  anurddha 
suryam. 

Line  2.  Apparently  read  etan-mdm  ksetra  rdksasa  nara  Ihujaga  yaksa ;  and 
compare  the  clause  in  No.  5,  rev.  1.  ^,sura-nara-bhujaga  (p.  102).    BhrScika  =  vrhika. 

Line  3.  kaurattaya  =  hord-traya  (?)  ;  r/m  deli  =  dele  dele. 

Line  4.  Read  anukula  ;   kharmta)k  rsim  sarvva  jjrdhjalikrtya  parsad  vijndpayati. 

Line  5.  ksetra-hord-rdli,  &c. 

Line  6.  anumodanam  utdha  7ia  Hi  (?) ;  tdvam  =  tdvat. 

Line  7.  Read  prdnjall ;  Srristo  =  Irestho  ;  vidbd  =  vidvdn  (?). 

Line  8.  Read  sattva-hit-aisi  \  sarvva-lriyd  sampanno;  sarvva-try-adliva.  With 
tradhva  compare  trapaya  in  No.  5,  rev.  1.  5,  p.  102. 

TRANSLATION.! 

Obverse. 

[Line  2,  Verse  87.]    A  formula  of  medical  herbs ;  in  this  respect  effective 

are  (the  lunar  asterisms)  Citra,  Mrigasii-a,  Sravana,  [Verse  88],  Nidhana,  Punarvasu, 

Svati,  Satabhisa, of  those  who  abandon  disputes,  quarrels,  knives  (?)  and 

.  .  rites.     [Verse  89]  Causers  of  misfortune  are   (the  lunar  asterisms)  Krittika, 

Phalguni,  Asadha, [1-5]  rough  works,  having  made  a  firm  path.     Causers 

of  success  in  this  respect  are  (the  lunar  asterisms)  Purva-phalguni,  Purva-asadha, 

Purva-bhadrapada .  .  [1.  6,  Verse  90] arrangers  to  go  on  a  secret  path  are 

(the  lunar  asterisms)  Ardra  and  Dhanistha  in  combination.     [Verse  91]  One  may 

do  here  all  fierce  rites,     here  firm,  foremost  friends  are  (the  lunar  asterisms) 

Aslesa  and  Jyestha.     [Verse  92]  If  (the  lunar  asterism)  Uttara-bhadrapada  be  here 

the  third  (?),  let  him  do P-  8]  for  the  benefit  of  living  beings,  according  to 

circumstances,  having  known,  and  various  wise  men.  [Verse  93]  The  fomteenth 
day,  again,  has  Yama  for  its  deity  :  he  should  proceed  to  act  as  in  the  former 
case.  .  .     . 

■■■  The  text   is  in   too   bad    condition   to    admit  of  a  complete  or  satisfactory 
translation. 


AN  UNIDENTIFIED   FRAGMENT  125 

Reverse. 

[Line  1,  Verse  94.]  The  shadow  turns  round,  and  here  (the  asterism)  Asvini 
leads  the  night,  but  (the  asterism)  Anuradha  the  sun  towards  the  southern  quarter 

[].    2]    by    Suras  (and)   Rishis  thou  art    encouraged,  and  in   this    month 

(and)  field  by  Rakshasas,  men,  serjjents  (and)  Yakshas.  [Verse  95.]  (The  asterism) 
Vriscika  (or  scorpion) 

[Line  4.]    Now  the  Rishi  Kharusta  ^  addressed  the  whole  congregation,  which 

stood  with  folded  hands,  and  said [1-  5]  '  you  have  seen,  heard  (and)  understood 

the  (astrological)  fields,  hours,  signs,  positions,  progresses,  (and)  revolutions ;   and 

likewise [1-6]  the  motions  of  asterisms  and  planets  ;  are  you  satisfied  and 

content,  or  not'  ?  Now  then,  all  (the  congregation),  [1.  7]  bowing  (to  him)  with 
folded  hands,  spoke  thus  :   '  thou  art  the  preceptor  of  all  the  Devas,  the  best  sage  in 

the  world  of  Suras  and  Asuras,  unlike  any  other, [1.  8]  a  well-wisher  of  all 

living  beings,  possessed  of  all  eminences,  pastmaster  in  all  virtues,  endowed  with  an 
equal  range  (of  knowledge)  of  the  three  periods  of  time  (past,  present,  and  future), 
nor  has  any  other  (person)  [1.  9]  such  knowledge  as  thou,  to  give  instruction  with 
regard  to  nights,  days,  moments,  asterisms,  planets,  half-months,  months  .     .     .  .  ' 


10.     SUEAIVIGAMA-SAMADHI    StJTEA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  144,  SB.  87.     (Plate  XX,  No.  4,  Reverse.) 

This  is  a  part,  between  one-half  and  two-thirds  of  a  folio,  imperfect  on  the  left, 
and  therefore  lacking  a  number.  But  for  one  small  gap  near  the  right  lower  corner, 
the  existing  part,  measuring  258  x  121  mm.  (or  10  x  4f  inches),  is  undamaged.  The 
writing,  eight  lines  on  either  side,  in  Upright  Gupta  characters,  is  fine,  bold, 
formal,  black,  and  clear :  a  little  rubbed  at  the  left  lower  corner  of  the  obverse  and 
corresponding  upper  corner  of  the  reverse ;  but  the  reverse  lines  6-8,  with  con- 
tinuation 8  a,  are  in  a  different,  smaller,  thinner,  distinctly  cursive  hand,  and 
probably  by  another  scribe  (footnote  13,  p.  127),  and  contain  a  different  text. 

The  text  is  the  conclusion  of  a  Suramgama-samadhi  Sutra,  followed  by 
a  Dharani,  or  charm  (in  the  cursive  hand).  A  Tibetan  version,  with,  however,  an 
amplified  ending,  may  be  seen  in  the  Bkah-hgyur,  Mdo.  vol.  ')  (ix),  foil.  407  5-510  a 
of  the  India  Office  edition.     It  was  translated  into  Chinese  in  a.  d.  384-417  (Nanjio, 

^  The  reputed  inventor  of  the  Kharoshthi  script,  whose  story  is  related  in  the 
Suryagarbha  Sutra  ;  see  Professor  S.  Levi's  article  referred  to  in  the  introductory 
remarks. 


126  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

No.  399,  col.  98).  For  some  passages,  cited  in  the  Siksasamuccaya,  see  the  Index  I  to 
the  edition  by  the  late  Professor  Bendall.  For  convenience  in  following  the  drift 
of  the  passage  a  conjectural  Sanskrit  rendering  of  the  corresponding  portion  of  the 
Tibetan  text  is  appended  in  parallel  columns. 

The  existing  Sanskrit  text  reads  as  follows : — 

Obverse. 

1  j'Ikulaputrena  va  kuladuhiturxa  ^  va  imasya  ^uramp^awiasj/al  samadhau 
^'  liklii- 

2  -'-;^]/as  ca  ho  punar  Drdliamate  bodh-arthikah  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita 

va  kalpa-sata-sa- 

3  |is«raiiigame  samadhau  saha  iSravanena  na  oliyen  ^  na  samtrasen  na 

samtrasam  apadje- 

4  |i( jjrato)ram  niryanam  ^  vadami  sarvba-jnatayam  kah  punar  upayo 

yah  ^rutva  uddi^ei  ^ra- 

5  H^ftta-cintikatam  ^rutv<j^nutrasitu  ^-kamena  pratyaksa-jnanarh  gantu- 

kamena  '>  iha  sa- 

6  ||«^aliksipitu-kamena  ^  sandha-vacanam  *  anugantu-kamena  pratyaksa- 

jnana-dariSa- 

7  |x(c?A)ih   ^rotavyah    ({)  juasmirii  ^    ho    punas    ^urariigame    samadhau 

nirdi^amane  aprame- 

8  f~,ysi,nya(vaivartt'i}'kei-hhmji&n^  pratisthitani  aprajuanatarani  ^  ca  ye§am 

Reverse. 

1  pyarii  siiram^ama-samadhih  pratilabdhah  astavim^atinam  '  ca  sahas- 

ranam 

2  ^xkxy.txni  -^  sadvim^aimarh  '    c*6p£isak-6pasika-sahasranam    dharma- 

caksur  visuddhah  sa- 

^  Prakritic  forms  for  duliitra,  avaltyet,  imasmin. 

^  Read  niryanam,  and  1.  5,  dnuttrasifu  ;  see  footnote  17,  p.  99. 

^  For  apariliRipiu-hamena  =  '  through  desire  not  to  leave ' ;  see  the  Tibetan. 

*  Sandha-vacanam,  enigmatic  speech ;  see  Prof.  Kern's  translation  of  the 
Saddharma-pundarika  (in  SBB.,  vol.  xxi),  p.  59,  footnote  3. 

■'  Araivarttika-hJiumi ,  cf.  Karuna-pundarika,  ed.  Buddhist  Text  Society  of  India, 
p.  127, 11.  19,  &c. 

f'  Apramdnataraiii  =  '  very  countless  '  ;  see  the  Tibetan  Sin  ■  i.u  •  iskad  •  med. 

'  Read  astdvimf,  aadvimf. 


SUEAMGAMA-SAMADHI  SUTRA  127 

3  ||'i/o"5/w7sit\*  idam  avocad  Bhagavan  attamaiia  Manyu^rih"  kumaraka- 

blmto  dr- 

4  y(i(i'rt)s  te  ca  sarvbe  maha^ravakah  sa-deva-gandharvba-manus-asuras 

ca  loko  bhagavad-blia- 
^  ([&/i]*rarii "    ^ubliam     bodhi-tray-avaham^     Suramgama-mahasutram 

bodhy-arthaih"  likbitam  mayat^^^ 
6  K!5a)mah.'='  saptanam  samyak-sambuddhanam  sa-sravakanam  nesam^* 

namaskrtva  imam  vidya  ^*  pra3'oja- 
^  J(f?^)i-gandhari-malini  <--  gacchahi  ekahika  n«asti  te  iha  vasaiii  gacchalii 

dvitiyaka  triti-  ^= 
8  Qsiddhyamtu  maiiitra-pada  taratu  vidya  tarn  Brahni#anumaniiyatu '" 

svaha  •^  ime(^)i|  padehi  «a||c^i-tire  sthitva  vaila-sa- 
8fl,  ]a-nada[iii]  z^arnya  prdpta^^vja  esa  siddhi"  ii 


The  Tibetan  version  runs  as  follows  :- 
Tibetan  Version. 
I  bio  •  gros  •  brtan  •  pa  •  de  •  Ita 
bas ■ na • 


Sanskrit  conjectural  rendering." 
[Evaiii  sati  Drdhamate  iha-jatau 

para  -  jatau     va    guna  -  parigraha  - 

kamena] 


^  Read  '6/iusU. 

^  Note  tlie  curious  spelling  Ulanyumh  for  Manjusrlh. 

1"  Plainly  part  of  a  versified  colophon,  in  sloka  metre — 
i<y<.xxKj gamlhiram  subham  hodhi-tray-dva/iam.\ 
suramgama-malidsutram  hodhy-artham  likhitam  may  a  II 

^'  Read  hodhy-artham.  ^"  Read  mayd. 

1^  The  lines  6-8a  plainly  contain  a  mantra  added,  in  cursive  letters  and  mixed 
Sanskrit,  after  the  colophon.  The  characteristically  different  tracing  of  the  sub- 
scribed r  seems  to  point  to  a  different  writer.  In  the  appendix  we  have  the  ordinary 
Indian  r,  while  in  the  sutra  it  looks  suspiciously  like  the  Khotanese  /;•. 

^*  Read  tesdi'n  ;  vidydiii  prayojaydmi. 

1°  Read  doittyaka,  trliyaka. 

^^  Read  anumanyatu.  "  See  footnote  35,  p.  132. 

1^  The  parts  missing  from  the  leaf  are  enclosed  in  square  brackets.  Where 
feasible  the  original  Sanskrit  is  followed.  In  respect  of  sandhi,  &e.,  no  strict  rule, 
inconsistent  with  Buddhist  Sanskrit,  is  followed,  the  object  being  merely  to  indicate 
the  sense. 


128 


MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 


Tibetan  Version. 

[Obv.  1.  1]  rigs  •  kyi  •  bu  •  ham 
rigs  •  kyi  •  bu  •  mo  •  tshe  •  hdi  •  ham 
tshe  •  rabs  •  gzan  •  la  •  yon  •  tan 
yens  •  su  •  hdzin  •  par  •  Mod  •  pas 
dpah  •  bar  •  hgro  •  bahi  •  tin  •  he 
hdzin  •  hdi  •  yi  •  ger  •  bri  •  ba 
dan  I  bklag  ■  pa  •  daii  •  luh  •  nod 
pa  •  dan  i  kha  •  ton  •  bya  •  ba 
dan  1  b^ad  •  pa  •  la  •  brtson  •  par 
byaho I 

[1.  2]  bio  •  gros  •  brtan  •  pa 
yah  •  rigs  •  kyi  •  bu  •  ham  i  rigs 
kyi  .  bu  ■  mo  •  byah  ■  chub  •  hdod 
pas  •  bskal  •  pa  •  brgya  •  phrag 
stoh  •  du  •  pha  •  rol  •  tu  •  phyin 
pa  •  drug  •  spyod  •  pa  •  bas  i  gah 
gis- 

[1.  3]  dpah  •  bar  •  hgro  •  bahi 
tin  •  he  •  hdzin  •  hdi  •  thos  •  ma 
thag  •  tu  •  sems  •  ma  •  zum  •  la  •  mi 
skrag  •  mi  ■  dhah  i  dhah  •  bar  •  mi 
hgyur  •  zih  •  mos  •  pas  •  byed  •  na  i 
de  •  ni  • 

[1.  4]  ches  ■  myur  •  du  •  bla  •  na  • 
med  •  pa  •  yah  •  dag  •  par  •  hdzogs  • 
pahi  •  byah  •  chub  •  tu  •  hes  •  par  • 
hbyuh  •  bar  •  hgyur  •  na  •  gah  •  gis  • 
thos  •  nas  •  luh  •  hbog  •  paham  •  gzan  • 
la  •  hchad  •  par  •  hgyur  ■  ba  •  Ita  • 
ci  •  smos  I  de-bzin  • 


Sanskrit  conjectural  rendering. 

[Obv.  1.  1]  kulaputrena  va  kula- 
duhituna  va  imasya  ^urarhgamasya 
samadhau  likhi[tva  vacayitva 
udgrhya  pathitva  nirdisya  yatnah 
karyah  i] 


[1.  2]  yas  ca  ho  ^°  punar  Dhrdha- 
mate  bodh-4rthikah  kulaputro  va 
kuladuhita  va  kalpa-^ata-sa[hasre 
sat-paramita^  caritva  imasmiii] 


[1.  3]  surarhgame  samadhau  saha 
^ravanena  na  oliyen  na  samtrasen 
na  sarhtrasam  apadye[d  adhimuhcet 
sa  ksi-] 


[1.  4]  prataram  niryaty  ^°  anut- 
tarayarh  sam}'ak-sariibodhayaih  ^^  i 
kim  puuar  ^^  yah  srutva  uddi^et 
pa2^[rebhyo  va  nirdiset  Tatha-] 


■"'  /lo  not  in  the  Tibetan. 
^^  Skr.  sarvajnatdijioh. 
^^  Skr.  pra  . 


20 
22 


Skr.  lurydmr'ii  vaddmi. 
Skr.  ka^  punar  updi/o. 


^URAMGAMA-SAMlDHI   StJTKA 


129 


Tibetan  Version. 

[1.  5]  g^egs  •  pahi  •  bsam  •  gyis  • 
mi  •  khyab  •  pa  •  tbob  •  nas  •  mi  • 
hjigs  •  par  •  hdod  •  pas  •  dpah  •  bar  • 
hgro  •  bahi  •  tiii  •  rie  •  hdzin  •  dkon  • 
mchog  •  hdi  ■  mfian  •  par  •  byaho  ii 
ma  •  thos  •  pahi  •  chos  •  rnams  •  thos  • 
nas  •  mi  • 

[1.  6]  spoil  •  bar  •  Mod  •  pa  •  dan  i 
Idem  •  po  •  iiag  •  rtogs  ■  par  •  hdod  • 
pa  •  dan  i  ye  •  ses  •  mhon  •  sum  •  du  • 
gyur  •  pa  •  rtogs  •  pa  •  hdod  •  pas  • 
dpah  •  asbar  •  hgro  •  bahi  •  tin  •  rie  • 
hdzin  •  hdi  ■  la  • 

[1.  7]  mos  •  par  •  byaho  i  502  a  i 
dpah  •  bar  •  hgro  •  bahi  •  tin  rie 
hdzin  •  hdi  •  b^ad  •  pahi  •  tshe  •  sems 
can  •  grans  •  med  •  tshad  •  mod  ■  pa 
bla  •  na  •  med  ■  pa  •  yaii  •  dag  •  par 
hdzogs  •  pahi  •  byaii  •  chub  •  la  •  yaii 
dag  •  par  •  zugs  ■  so  • 

[1.  8]  gaii  •  byah  ■  chub  ■  sems 
dpahi  •  sa  •  la  •  gnas  ■  pa  •  ni  •  de 
bas  •  kyah  •  6in  •  tu  ■  tshad  •  med 
do  II  gah  •  dag  ■  bzod  •  pa  •  thob 
par  •  gyur  •  pa  ■  ni  ■  de  •  bas  •  kyaii 
sin  •  tu  •  tshad  •  med  •  do  ii  skye 
ba  •  gcig  •  gis  •  thogs  •  pahaii 
tshad  •  med  •  par  •  gyur  •  to  n 


Sanskrit  conjectural  rendering. 

[1.  5]  gata-cintikatarii  labdhv  ^^^ 
anuttrasitu-kamena  ^°  idam  ^"^  [^uraiii- 
gama-samadhi-ratnarh  srotavyam  i 
a^ruta-dharman  ^rutva  na] 


[1.  6]  ksipitu-kameua  abhisan- 
dhi  "-vacanam  anugantu-kamena 
pratyaksa-jnana  -  darsa[na-kamena 
imasmiii  surarhgama-samadhau 


[1. 7]  adhimoktavyam  i]  imasmin^* 
^uraiiigama-samadhau  nirdisvamane 
aprame[yani  asanikhyeyani  satt- 
vany  anuttarayarii  samyak-saiii- 
bodhayaiii  sarhvistani  ^"J 


[1.  8]yanibodhisattva^''-bhumau 
pratisthitani  apramanatarani  ca  i 
yesarh  [ksantir  labdha  tani  ca  apra- 
manatarani I  eka-jati-dhrtani  punar 
apramanani  i  asifcinam  bodhisattva- 
sahasranam  ^^] 


2*  Skr.  irutvd. 

2^  Skr.  inserts  pralyaha-jnanam  gantukdmena. 

2«  Skr.  iha. 

2^  Skr.  inserts  ho  imnar. 

^^  Skr.  avaivarttika. 


2'  Skr.  sandhd. 

2^  Skr.  much,  briefer  here. 


K 


130 


MISCELLANEOUS  FKAGMENTS 


Tibetan  Version. 

[E,ev.  1.   1]  byafi  ■  chub  •  sems  • 
dpah  •  khri  •  brgyad  •  stoii  •  gis  ■  ni  • 
dpah  ■  bar  •  hgro     bahi  •  tin  ■  tie 
hdzin  •  hdi  •  thob  •  bo  ii  srog  •  chags  • 
brgyad  •  khri  •  drug  ■  stoh  •  gis  •  ui 
bla  •  na  •  med  ■  pa    yah  •  dag  ■  par  • 
hdzogs  •  pahi  ■  byari  •  chub    sems 
bskyed  •  do  ii  dge  ■  sloh  •  daii  • 
dge  •  sloh  •  ma    ni  •  khri  •  brgj^ad  • 
stoh  •  ni     len    pa  •  med    pa  •  zag  • 
pa  •  las  • 

[1.  2]  sems     rnam     par     hgrol 
lo  1 1  dge  •  bsnen    dan  •  dge  •  bsiien  • 
ma    brgyad  ■  khri  ■  drug  •  stoh  •  ni 
chos  ■  la  •  chos     kyi  •  mig  •  rhul 
med  ■  cih  •  dri  ■  ma  •  dah    bral    ba 
rnam  •  par  ■  dag     go  i  Iha    khrag  • 
khrig  •  phrag  •  sum  •  cu  ■  rtsa  •  drug  • 
gis    ni    chos     mhon  •  par  •  rtogs  • 
par  • 

[1.   3]  gyur     to  i  509  h  i  bcom  • 
Idan  •  hdas  •  kyis  •  de     skad     ees 
bkah  •  stsal  ■  nas  i  tshe  •  dan  ■  Idan  • 
pa  •  kun  •  dgah  •  bo     dah  i  hjam 
dpal     gzon  ■  nur  •  gynr     pa  •  daii  i 
byah  •  chub  •  sems  •  dpah  •  bio    gros  • 
brtan  ■  pa  ■  dah  i  b}-an  •  chub  ■  sems  • 
dpah  •  byams  •  pa     dah  i  de  •  ma 
yin  •  pahi  •  byah  •  chub  •  sems  • 
dpah  • 


Sanskrit  conjectural  rendering. 

[Rev.  1.  1]  i]yam  ^urarhgama- 
samadhih  pratilabdhah  ^^  [sada^iti 
jiva  -  sahasrair  anuttara  -  samyak  - 
sarhbodhi-cittam  utpannam  i  asta- 
vim^atinam  bliiksu-bhiksuni-sahas- 
ranam  alabdh  -  asravatas  citta  - 
vimuktih  i  sada^itinarh] 


[1.  2]  c^opasak  -  op^sika  -  sahas- 
ranarii  [dharme]  dharma-caksur 
[niraja-nirmalaj-visuddham  i  [deva- 
narh  sattririi^ad-adhika-niyutanam 
abhisama-] 


[1.  3]  yo  'bhusTt  ^^  i  idam  avocat 
Bhagavan  i  attamana  [ayusman 
Anando]  Manjusrih  kumaraka- 
bhuto  Pr[dharaatir  bodhisattvo 
Maitreyo  bodhisattvas  tad-anye  ca 
bodhisattva  mahasa-] 


^^  From  this  point  the  Sanskrit  is  much  divergent,  and  much  briefer. 
^^  Here  the  Tibetan  inserts  a  long  passage,  foil.  502^-509  i''. 


SURAMGAMA-SAMADHI  SUTRA 


131 


Tibetan  Version. 
[1.  4]  sems  ■  dpah  •  chen  •  po  • 
gzan  •  dag  •  daii  i  nan  •  thos  •  chen  • 
po  •  de  •  dag  •  dan  i  thams  •  cad  • 
daii  •  Idan  •  pahi  •  hkhor  •  de  •  dan  i 
Iha  ■  daii  •  mi  •  dari  •  Iha  •  ma  ■  yin  • 
daii  I  dri  •  zas  •  bcas  ■  pahi  ■  hjig  ■ 
rten  •  yi  •  raiis  •  te  i  bcom  •  Idan  • 
hdas  •  (51 0  a.i)  kyis  •  gsuiis  •  pa  ■  la  • 
mrion  •  par  ■  bstod  •  do  i 


Sanskrit  conjectural  rendering. 

[1.  4]  ttvas  te  ca  sarve  maha- 
^ravakas  [tac  ca  Sarvavac  cakrarii] 
sa-deva-manu  s-Asura-gand  harva^  ca 
loko  Bhagavad-bha[sitam  abhyanan- 
dann  iti]  ^^ 


TRANSLATION.^* 

This  being-  so,  Dridhamati,  [1.  1]  a  youth  or  maiden  of  good  family,  desiring  in 
this  or  another  birth  the  acquisition  of  merit,  should  be  energetic  in  regard  to  this 
Suramgama  meditation,writing  it,  reading  it,  receiving  it,  repeating  it,  exponnding  it. 
[1.  2]  Moreover,  Dridhamati,  a  youth  or  maiden  of  good  family  who,  aiming  at  absolute 
knowledge,  has  during  100,000  kalpas  practised  the  six  paramitas  ;  [1.  3]  and  who, 
in  regard  to  this  Suramgama  meditation,  as  soon  as  he  has  heard  it,  does  not  slacken, 
nor  apprehend,  nor  fall  into  apprehension,  but  devotes  himself  to  it,  [1.  4]  quickly 
emerges  into  supreme  perfect  illumination.  Again,  whosoever,  having  heard  it, 
should  teach  it,  or  expound  it  to  others ;  one  who  desires,  [1.  5]  having  attained  to 
the  way  of  thinking  of  the  Tathagata,  to  have  no  apprehension,  should  hear  this 
gem  of  a  Suramgama  meditation  :  one  who,  having  heard  unheard-of  dharmas,  desires 
not  to  abandon  them,  who  desires  to  understand  enigmatic  speech,  who  desires  to 
realize  manifest  knowledge,  should  devote  himself  [1.  7]  to  this  Surarhgama  meditation. 
This  Suramgama  meditation  being  expounded,  countless,  numberless  beings  have 
established  themselves  in  supreme  perfect  illumination  :  [1.  8]  those  who  have  risen 
to  the  stage  of  Bodhisattva  are  likewise  countless  ;  those  who  have  obtained  patience 
are  also  countless  ;  those  again  who  are  detained  only  by  a  single  life  are  countless. 
By  80,000  Bodhisattvas  [Reverse,  1.  1]  this  Suramgama  meditation  has  been  won  ; 
in  86,000  living  creatures  the  thought  of  supreme  perfect  illumination  has  been 
engendered  ;  to  28,000  monks  and  nuns  has  come,  in  consequence  of  not  admitting 
sinfulness,  [1.  2]  liberation  of  mind  ;  in  86,000  lay  adherents,  male  and  female,  the 

3^  For  these  last  words  and  the  whole  passage  cf.  the  conclusion  of  the  Karuna- 
pundarika,  in   the   Catalogue  of  Buddhist  Sanskrit   MSS.   of  the  Royal    Asiatic 


Society,  p.  18,  and  R.  Mitra's  Nepalese  Buddhist  Literature,  p. 
'*  The  translation  follows  the  Tibetan  Version. 

k2 


290. 


182  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

eye  for  the  Absolute  has  been  made  free  from  dust,  free  from  defilement,  pure ;  to 
a  myriad  and  thii-ty-six  devas  [1.  3]  there  has  been  right  discernment. 

This  spake  the  Blessed  One.  With  attentive  mind  the  venerable  Ananda,  Manjusri 
in  his  condition  of  youth,  Dridhamati  the  Bodhisattva,  Maitreya  the  Bodhisattva, 
and  the  other  Bodhisattvas,  great  beings,  and  all  those  great  Sravakas,  the  world 
with  its  devas,  men,  asuras,  gandharvas,  welcomed  the  speech  of  the  Blessed  One. 

This  .  .  .  profound,  auspicious,  great  Suramgama  Sutra,  which  conveys  the  three- 
fold supreme  knowledge,  has  been  copied  by  me  for  the  sake  of  absolute  knowledge. 

[1.   6] having   made   obeisance    to   the    seven   perfectly   Enlightened 

Ones,  together  with  their  Sravakas,  this  magic  formula  ...  I  apply  ...  [1.  7] 
'O  Gandhari,  O  Malini,  may  (the  fever)  depart  which  comes  every  day, 
may  it  have  no  lodgement  here  (i.e.  in  this  body) ;  may  (the  fever)  depart  which 

comes  every  other  day,  or  which  comes  every  third  day  ;    [1.  8] may  the 

words  of  the  mantra  be  effective ;  may  the  magic  prevail  ;  may  Brahma  grant  it. 
Svaha  ! '  With  these  words,  standing  on  the  brink  of  the  river,  listening  to  the 
noise  of  the  water  in  the  cavern,  this  (i.  e.  the  desired)  success  may  be  attained.^^ 


11.  SADDHAEMA-PUNpAElKA   SUTRA 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143,  SB.  53.     (Plate  XX,  No.  2,  Obverse.) 

This  is  a  fragment  of  a  folio  which  is  mutilated  on  Ijoth  sides.  It  measures 
180  X  118  mm.,  or  7'xVx4f  inches.  The  larger  loss  seems  to  be  on  the  left-hand 
side ;  and  with  it  the  folio  number  is  lost.  The  writing  is  in  Upright  Gupta 
characters,  and  though  not  elegant,  it  is  clear ;  it  much  resembles  that  of  No.  9  (PL  XX, 
No.  3).     The  Khotanese  hard  rr  seems  not  unfrequently  to  replace  the  ordinary  r. 

The  text  of  the  fragment  is  from  the  Saddharma-pundarika  Sutra,  of  which  it 
comprises  the  end  of  the  15th  (obv.  U.  1,  2)  and  beginning  of  the  16th  chapters 
(parivarta).  The  complete  text  of  the  Sutra  has  been  edited,  from  Nepalese  Manu- 
scripts, by  Professor  H.  Kern,  in  conjunction  with  Professor  Bunyiu  Nanjio,  in  the 
Bibliotheea  Buddhica  X.  An  English  translation  of  the  Sutra,  also  by  Professor 
Kern,  has  been  puWished  in  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol.  xxi.  There  exist 
several  translations  into  Chinese.  On  these,  as  well  as  on  other  points  connected 
with  the  text  of  the  Sutra,  Professor  Kern's  Introduction  to  his  Translation,  and 

^^  The  text  and  translation  of  this  clause  is  conjectural.  The  restoration  of  the 
phrase  nadl-Ure,  '  on  the  river's  bank  ',  is  fairly  certain  ;  and  the  subsequent  reading 
and  interpretation  of  the  phrase  vailasalandda  is  suggested  by  it.  The  mantra  would 
seem  to  have  been  pronounced  in  a  rocky  cave  on  a  river's  bank.  The  two  aksaras, 
which  have  Ijeen  read  ndda,  admit  also  the  reading  tdo ;  but  this  reading,  in  com- 
bination with  vailasala,  yields  no  sense. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARIKA  StJTRA 


133 


Professor  Nanjio's  Preface  to  the  Edition  may  he  consulted.     See  also  the  latter's 
Catalogue,  Nos.  134,  136,  138,  139. 

The  text  of  our  fragment  is  given  below  in  parallel  columns  with  that  of  the 
Bibliotheca  Buddhica  edition  (p.  326, 1.  10-p.  329,  1.  4),  the  missing  portions  being 
printed  in  smaller  italic  type  and  within  brackets. 

Obverse. 


Hoernle  MS. 
1  (nti  clurgati^  22  Cari  acari  janiya 
nitya-kalarii    vadami    satbana 
tatha  tat 


^ 


2  Urike  sCitrre  Tathagata-ayu-prra- 

mana-nirde^a-parivartto  namah 
paiicadasatna| 

3  Jbhasiyamane  apprrameyanaiii  ^ 

asamkliyeyanarii  satbanaiii  art- 
thaiii  abhiisi  •>  | 


^cudu  avocat\  imasmim  kho  puna 
Aj  ita  Tatbagata-ay  u-prramana- 
Birde^e  ((i7ia)| 

5  pvalika  -  samanam     bodhisatba  - 

koti  -  nayuta-^atasahasrani  an- 
ntpattikesu(cWi)JanMesM ' 

6  ^dbisatbanaiii        mabasatbanam 

dharani-pi-atilabba       abbilsit^ 


Nepalese  MSS. 

[prapatajnti  durgatim  ii  22  ii  Carirh 
caririi  jnaniya  nitya  -  kalaiii  va- 
dami sattvana  tatba  tath[dham  i 
katham  nu  bodhdv  upandmeyam  katha 
Buddha-dharmdna  bhaveyu  Idbhinah  ii 
23  II  Ity  drya-Saddharma-punda-'\ 

rike  dharma  paryaye  Tatbagat  -^ 
ayus  -  pramana  -  parivarto  nama 
paiicada^ama[A  wAsmin  khalu punas 
Tathagat-dyus-praifndna-nirdese\ 

nirdi^yamane  'prameyanam  asarii- 
kbyeyanaiii  sattvanam  artbah 
krto  'bbut\  l  \atha  khalu  Bhagavdn 
Maitreyam  bodhisattvam  mahdsatt  - 
vani\ 

amaatrayate  sma  i  asmin  kbalu 
punar  Ajita  Tatbagat-ayus-pra- 
mana  -  nirde^a  d^d\r ma-par y dye 
nirdisyamdne  'stasasti-Gangdnadi-'\ 

valuka-samanarii  bodbisattva-kotl- 
nayuta-^atasabasranam  anutpa- 
ttika  -\dharma-ksdntir  utpannd  I  e- 
bhyah  sahasra-gunena  yesdm  6o-] 

dbisattvanaiii  mabasattvanam  dba- 
rani-pratilambbo    'hhuty  \  [anye- 


1  See  footnote  8  on  p.  90. 
"  Bead  °ydnani  and  abliufit. 


Note  the  apparent  hard  rr  in  apprra° 
elsewhere,  compared  with  the  ordinary  r  in  prati°,  1.  6. 

5  For  this  varia  lectio  comp.  B.  B.  edition,  p.  437,  footnote  1. 


here  and 


134: 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


Hoernle  MS. 
lokadhatu-paramalp 


7  g/abha  abhusi^  aparesaiii  ca  loka- 
dhatu-param4nu-raj  a-sam  anam 


bodhisatball 


8  Jsfthasrika-lokadhatu-paramanu  - 
raj  a-sam  a  bodbisatba  maha- 
satba  idaiii  dharma-pap 


9  lima  bodbisatba  mahasatba*  vima- 


ij 


la-nirbhasa-cakkrram  prravart- 
tayinsu  anye  ca  cut^'^ 


10  Jti  prratibaddha  abhusit^  anut- 
^arayam  sariimyak-sambodha- 
ya  ^  anye  ca  catbara  ca|y 


sum   ca   s( 


Nepalese  MSS. 

:«Aasn^a-]lokadhatu-para- 
Tnknu-lrajah  -  samanam  bodhisattvd- 
rimh  mahdsatirdndm  imam  dharma- 
parydyam  srutvMsaiiga-pratibhdnatd- 
prati-'\ 

lambho  'bbiit,,  i  anyesruii  ca  \_dvi- 
sdhasrika  -  ]lokadhatti  -  paramanu- 
rajah  -  samanam  bodhisattva[»«»( 
mahdsattvdndih  koti  -  nayuta  •  satasa- 
hasra-parivartdyd  dhdranydh  prati- 
lambho  'bhfit^  I  anye  ca  iri-] 

sahasrika  -  lokadhatu  -paramanu-ra- 
jah-sama  bodbisattva  mahasattva 
imam  dharma  -  'p<^[rydyaih  sndv<- 
dvaivartya  -  dharmacakram  pravarta- 
ydmdsiih  I  anye  ca  madhyama-loka- 
dhdtu-paramdi)u-rajah-sa-'\ 

ma  bodbisattva  mahasattva  \imam 
dliarma-parydyaih  ^rutvil\  vimala- 
nirbhasa  cakraiii  pravartayam- 
asub  I  anye  ca  ksudraka-[/oA'«- 
dhdtii  -paramdau  -  rajah-samd  bodhi  - 
sattvd  mahasattva  imam  dharma-par- 
ydyam  srutv-fdsta-ju-] 

ti-baddha  abhtivann  anuttarayarh 
samyak  saiiibodhau  i  anye  ca- 
[turdvipaka  lokadhatu  -  paramdnu  - 
rajah  •  sama  bodhisattvd  mahdsattvd 
imam  dharma-paryayam  srutvd  caiur- 
jdfi-] 


The  final  d  is  partially  rubbed  out. 


Read  Howyak-sa inhodhayn ni . 


SADDHAKMA-PUNDARIKA  SUTRA 


136 


Reverse. 


Hoernle  MS. 
1  Uprfttibaddha     abhusit^      anut- 
taraya^  samyak-sambodhayam 


anye  ca  tri-catudbipi 


^ 


2'  Jbhusitv  anuttarayaiii  samyak- 
saiiibodbayam  anye  ca  dbi- 
catudbaipika-param  i  {nu)^ 


3  Januttarayam  samyak-saiiibodh- 
ayarii  anye  ca  catudbipika- 
paramanu-raj  a  -sa  |1 


Jyarii  samyak  -  sambodhayaih 
asta-lokadhatu-paramanu  -  sa- 
mebbis  ca  satbebhi''  ('»«)y 


5  Jmanantara-nirdista  ca  Bhaga- 
vata  imesa  bodhisatbanaiii 
mahasatbanam  dharm-(^| 


6  |mandarava-divyana      puspana 


Nepalese  MSS. 

pratibaddha  aljhuvann  anuttarayaiii 
samyak-sambodlian  i  anye  ca  tri- 
caturdvipa[A«  lokadhdtu  para 
indnu-rajah-sanid  bodhisattvd  malid- 
sattva  imam  dharma-parydyam  srutvd 
tri-jdti-praiibaddhd  a- 

bhuvann  anuttaraj'aiii  samyak-sam- 
bodhau  i  anye  ca  dvi-caturdvi- 
paka-[/oA:a«?A«<z«-]param4nu[ -raja  A- 
sanid  bodhisattva  mahdsattvd  imam 
dharma-parydyam  srutvd  dvi-jdti- 
pratibaddhd  abhuvami] 

anuttaiayaiii  samyak  -  saiiibodhaii  i 
anye  c«[a^A;a]- caturdvipaka- [Zo^a- 
(?/ia;M-]paraEQ^nu-rajah-sa[ma6o«f^z- 
sattvd  mahdsattvd  imam  dharma- 
parydyam  srutv<-wika-jdti-^ratibaddhd 
abhuvann  anuttard-'\ 

yam  samyak-saiiibodhau  i  asta-[<r«- 
sdhasra  -  mahdsdhasra  -Jlokadhatu  - 
paramanu[-ra7aA-]samai^  ca  \bo- 
«?Ai]sattvair  Ti\d\hdsattvair  imam 
dharmM-parydyam  srutv^^dnuttardydm 
samyak-sambodhau  cittdny  utpdditdni 
II  Atha  sa-] 

manantara-nirdisteBhagavat^aisarii 
bodhisattvanaiii  mabasattva  - 
naiii  dbarm-^[6Awama2/e  pratisthdne 
atha  tdvad  ev<-6pari  vaihdyasdd  anta- 
riksdn 

mandarava-mahamandaravanaiii  pu- 


''  Read  anuttaraydm. 


Read  hodJiisathebhi. 


136 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


Hoernle  MS. 
mahavarsa  abhiprravarsi^  tesu 


ca  lokadhatu-sa 


7  ^lisrtam  '^  sarvbani  abhyava- 
kiranti  abhiprrakirauti  Bhaga- 
vantan  ca  Sakyalj 


8  Ksa)raa-nisanam''abhyavakiranti« 
abhiprakiranti  taiii  ca  sarvba- 
vanta  bodhisatbaj 


Jupfwe  ca  YSbihayase  antarikse 
maha  -  dundubbayah  prradur  - 
bhavinsu  te  ca  ali 


10  ^(1;ft^)hayase  antariksato  prra- 
patinsu  har-arddhahara-mukti- 
]  iara-maniratna?i?|l 


Nepalese  MSS. 
spanaiii  puspa-varsam  abhipra- 
vrstam  tesu  ca  lokadhatu-[/ro^i- 
nayuta]  -  sata[sa^asresM  yani  tdni 
Buddha  -  kott  -  nayuia  -  satasahasrdny 
dgatya  ratna-vrksa-niulesu  simhdsan- 
6p  -] 

vistani  tani  sarvani  c;^£ivakiranti 
sm^abhyavakiranti  sm^^bhipra- 
kiranti  sma  i  Bbagavantam  ca 
Sakya-[mMMi!»  Tathagatam  arhantam 
samyak-saiiibuddham  tarn  ca  Bhaga- 
vantaih  Prabhutaratnam  Tathagatam 
arhantam  samyak-sambuddham  parl- 
nirvrtam  simhdsan-dpa-] 

vistam  avakiranti  sms^^bhyava- 
kiranti  sm*4bhiprakiranti  sma  i 
taiii  ca  sarvavantam  bodhisattva- 
\_ganaiii,  taS  catasrah  parsado  'vaki- 
ranti  sm-^dbhyavakiranti  sm<-dbhipra- 
kiranti  sma  I  divydni  ca  candan- 
dguru-curndny  antariksdt  pravarsanti 

6paristac  c#4ntarikse  vaihayasam 
mabadundubhayo  'gbattitah  pra- 
nedur  \_inanojfia-madhura-gambhira- 
nirghosdh  I  divydni  ca  dusya-yugma- 
saiasahasrdny'\ 

uparistad  antariksat  prapatanti  sma 
I  har-ardhabara-muktabara-ma- 
mYSktnsi-[_v>ahdratnd'jm,  &c. 


^  Read  nuimldravci^dlvija-puHpanain  mahdvanam  abhijirravarsitam.     The  Nepalese 
text  in  11.  6-10  differs  not  inconsiderably  in  places. 
^  Read  nisannaili. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARlKA   SUTRA  IE? 


TRANSLATION." 

Verse  23.  Knowing  the  moving  and  not-moving  (of  living  beings),  I  say 
unceasingly  in  this  way  or  that  ['  How  then  may  I  lead  (them)  to  the  knowledge  of 
the  Absolute,  how  may  they  become  recipients  of  the  Buddha-doctrines  ?  '] 

Thus  ends  the  fifteenth  chapter  in  [the  noble  Saddharma-pundarlka  Sutra], 
named  '  the  Exposition  of  the  Duration  of  Life  of  the  Tathagata '. 

[Now  while  this  exposition  of  the  duration  of  life  of  the  Tathagata]  was  being 
spoken,  innumerable,  countless  living  beings  profited  by  it.  [Then  the  Blessed  One] 
spoke  thus  [to  the  Bodhisattva  Mahasattva  Maitreya:]  'O  Ajita,  while  this  exposition 
of  the  duration  of  life  of  the  Tathagata  was  being  given,  hundred  myriads  of  kotis  of 
BodhisattvaSj  comparable  to  the  sands  [of  sixty-eight  Ganga  rivers,  have  acquired  the 
peace  of  the  existence]  which  involves  no  liability  to  rebirth. ^^  [A  thousand  times  more 
than  these]  are  the  Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas  who  have  obtained  DharanI ;  [and  other 
Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas,  equal]  to  the  [dust]  atoms  of  a  [one-thousand-]world  system, 
[have  by  hearing  this  sermon  of  the  Law]  obtained  [the  condition  of  unhampered  in- 
telligence]. [1.  7]  Again,  other  Bodhisattvas  [Mahasattvas],  equal  to  the  dust  atoms  of 
a  [two-thousand-]world  system,  [have  obtained  the  DharanI  that  makes  hundred  thou- 
sand myriads  of  kotis  of  revolutions.  Again  other]  Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas,  equal  to 
the  dust  atoms  of  a  [three] -thousand- world  system,  [have  by  hearing]  this  sermon 
of  the  Law  [moved  forward  the  wheel  that  never  rolls  back.  Again  other]  Bodhi- 
sattvas Mahasattvas  [equal  to  the  dust  atoms  of  a  mean  world  system  have  by 
hearing  this  sermon  of  the  Law]  moved  forward  the  wheel  of  spotless  radiance. 
Again  other  [Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas,  equal  to  the  dust  atoms  of]  a  small  [world 
system,  have  by  hearing  this  sermon  of  the  Law],  after  being  entangled  [in  eight 
rebirths],  reached  supreme  perfect  enlightenment.  Again  other  [Bodhisattvas 
Mahasattvas,  equal  to  the  dust  atoms  of  a  four-continental  world  system,  have  by 
hearing  this  sermon  of  the  Law,]  [Reverse,  1.  1]  after  being  entangled  [in  (only) 
four  rebirths,]  reached  supreme  perfect  enlightenment.  Again  other  [Bodhisattvas 
Mahasattvas,  equal  to  the  dust  atoms]  of  three  four-continental  [world  systems,  have 
by  hearing  this  sermon  of  the  Law,  after  being  entangled  in  (only)  three  rebirths,] 
reached  supreme  perfect  enlightenment.  Again  other  [Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas, 
equal  to  the  dust]  atoms  of  two  four-continental  [world  systems,  have  by  hearing 
this   sermon  of  the   Law,  after  being  entangled   in   (only)  two  rebirths,  reached] 

'"  With  a  few  alterations  based  on  the  fresh  Sanskrit  texts,  the  translation  follows 
Professor  Kern's  translation  in  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol.  xxi,  pp.  310  ff.  Passages 
outside  the  fragment  are  enclosed  in  square  brackets. 

"  Less  accurately  in  SEE.,  vol.  xxi,  pp.  254,  311;  and  vol.  xlix,  Pt.  II,  pp.  40,  169. 


138  MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 

supreme  perfect  enlightenment.  Again  other  [Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas,]  equal  to 
the  dust  atoms  of  [one]  four-continental  [world  system,  have  by  hearing  this  sermon 
of  the  Law,  after  being  entangled  in  (only)  one  rebirth^  reached  supreme]  perfect 
enlightenment.  And  by  Bodhisattvas  [Mahasattvas],  equal  to  the  [dust]  atoms  of 
eight  [tri-millenary,  grand-millenary]  world  systems,  [having  heard  this  sermon 
of  the  Law,  the  idea  of  supreme  perfect  enlightenment  has  been  conceived.  Now] 
[1.  5]  no  sooner  had  the  Blessed  One  given  to  those  Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas 
[a  well-founded  understanding]  of  the  Law,  [when  at  once  there  rained  down 
from  the  upper  sky]  a  great  rain  of  Mandavara  celestial  flowers ;  and  in  those 
hundred  [thousand  myriad  kotis  of]  world  systems  [as  many  hundred  thousand 
myriad  kotis  of  Buddhas  as  had  come  and  were]  seated  [on  thrones  at  the  foot  of 
jewel  trees],  all  those  they  covered  and  overwhelmed.  Also  the  Blessed  One,  the 
Sakya[muni,  the  Tathagata,  the  Arhat,  the  Perfectly-enlightened  One,  yea  and  the 
Blessed  One,  the  Prabhiitaratna,  the  Tathagata,  the  Arhat,  the  Perfectly-enlightened 
One,  who,  having  entered  Nirvana,]  was  seated  on  his  throne,  they  covered  and 
overwhelmed.  Also  the  entire  [host]  of  Bodhisattvas,  [and  the  four  classes  of  the 
audience  they  covered  and  overwhelmed.  Also  (a  rain)  of  celestial  powder  of  sandal 
and  agallochum  rained  down,]  and  also  above,  in  the  upper  sky,  great  drums  became 
audible,  and  that  without  being  struck,  [with  a  pleasant,  sweet,  deep  resonance. 
Also  double  pieces  of  celestial  eloth/^  by  hundreds  of  thousands,]  fell  from  the  upper 
sky.     Necklaces,  half-necklaces,  pearl  necklaces  excellent  jewels,     

"  Diisi/a  (also  dursa)  is  simply  a  piece,  or  length,  of  (white  cotton)  cloth.  Such  pieces 
were  used  for  various  purposes:  as  wrappers  (dress  of  laymen,  opp.  monks,  JEAS.,  1915, 
p.  Ill;  of  men,  SBE.,  xi.  122,  note,  as  well  as  of  women,  Dvy.  614^™ ;  of  a  corpse,  SBE., 
xi.  92) ;  as  spreads  over  chairs  (S.S.  353^),  or  floors,  stairs,  &c.  (Cv.v,  21,  2  ;  SBE.,  xx.  128 , 
note);  as  curtains  for  women's  apartments  (S. 8.  Ze'^").  I'i'yHta  refers  to  two  lengths,  not 
to  two  kinds  of  material  (linen  and  cotton),  as  apparently  in  Dr.  Otto  Franke's  Dlghanikaya, 
p.  247,  note  7,  but  see  also  ibid.,  pp.  227,  u.  4,  228,  n.  1  ;  the  alternation  of  linen  and  cotton 
applies  only  to  the  preparation  of  a  corpse  for  cremation,  ibid.,  pp.  233,  249. 

ADDITIONAL  NOTE  (October,  1915). 

Anothee  confirmation  of  the  surmise,  regarding  the  find-place  being  Kbadalik, 
expressed  on  p.  85,  is  afforded  by  two  fragments  in  the  Stein  Collection,  viz.  one  (Kha.  i.  301  b, 
Reg.  No.  398)  of  another  folio  of  the  Suvarnaprabhasottama  MS.,  of  which  folio  98  is  edited 
on  p.  113  ;  and  the  other  (Kha.  i.  304,  Eeg.  No.  403)  of  another  folio  of  the  Eatnara^i  MS,, 
of  which  folio  5  is  edited  on  p.  116.     See  also  the  Additional  Note  on  p.  84. — [E,.  H.] 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

Edited  by  H.  Luders. 

[The  manuscript  fragments  dealt  with  in  this  section  belong  to  two  con- 
signments, marked  by  me  Nos.  142  and  148.  Both  were  transmitted  by  Sir  G. 
Macartney,  K.C.I.E.,  British  Consul- General  in  Kashgar,  to  the  Government  of 
India,  who  forwarded  them  to  me  in  May,  1903,  and  January,  1906,  respectively. 

The  fragments  are  stated  by  Sir  G.  Macartney  to  have  been  purchased  by  him 
from  Badruddin,  Aksakal  of  Khotan,  who  had  himself  bought  them  from  '  treasure 
seekers ',  but  could  give  no  information  regarding  their  precise  find-place.  On  the 
whole  it  is  probable  that  they  belong  to  the  proceeds  from  the  diggings  by  treasure 
seekers  in  the  ruins  of  Khadalik,  which  are  rel'erred  to  on  pp.  2  and  85. — B.  H.] 

1.  SADDHAEMA-PUNDAEIKA 

Hoernle  MSS.,  No.  148,  SA.  22-25.     (Plate  XVIII,  No.  1,  Fol.  253,  Obverse.) 

A  preliminary  notice  of  this  fragment  was  published  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1906,  pp.  695  S.,  by  Dr.  Hoernle,  who  from  the  mentioning 
of  the  Bodhisattva  Prajiiakuta  was  enabled  to  identify  the  leaves  as  having  belonged 
to  a  manuscript  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika  and  containing  portions  from  the  end  of 
chapter  xi  and  the  middle  of  chapter  xii  of  that  work. 

The  fragment  consists  of  four  leaves  of  strong  and  rather  smooth  dun-coloured 
paper  measuring  about  567  x  180  mm.  (or  22-|  x  7|  inches),  and  numbered  on  the 
left-hand  margin  of  the  obverse  253,  254,  259,  260,  the  hundreds,  tens,  and  units 
being  placed  one  below  the  other  as  commonly  done  in  Central-Asian  manuscripts. 
Each  page  contains  seven  lines.  In  order  to  make  the  lines  quite  straight  and 
equally  distant  from  one  another,  the  scribe  has  used  an  instrument  like  the  modern 
Indian  ruler,  the  impressions  still  being  clearly  visible.  On  the  left  side  a  circle 
measuring  about  40  mm.  (or  1^")  in  diameter  was  drawn  before  the  writing  was 
commenced,  and  its  centre  was  pierced  with  a  large  hole  for  the  passage  of  the 
strino-  which  was  to  hold  the  leaves  of  the  manuscript  together.  The  aksaras,  (e.  g. 
1/d.  and  «j/«,  fol.  253,  obv.  11.  1,  2,)  measure  22-30  mm.  (or  l-l^")- 


140  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

The  leaves  ai-e  perfect,  although  small  holes,  apparently  due  to  the  corrosive 
action  of  the  ink,  are  found  in  many  places.  In  the  transcript  all  letters  that  on 
this  account  have  been  more  or  less  damaged  are  printed  in  italic  type. 

The  characters  belong  to  the  Upright  Gupta  script  of  the  calligraphic  type. 
The  most  striking  feature  of  this  alphabet  is  the  variety  of  signs  for  medial  a.  In 
our  fragment  there  are  no  less  than  four  distinct  forms.  There  exists,  however, 
even  a  fifth  form  in  this  species  of  script,  though  no  example  of  it  happens  to 
occur  in  our  fragment ;  but  an  example  is  found  in  the  third  fragment  described 
below  (p.  168),  and  may  be  seen  in  na  at  the  end  of  line  4  on  PI.  XVIII,  No.  3, 
obv.  1.  4.  The  most  frequent  form  is  an  acute-angular  rightward  prolongation  of 
the  head-line  of  the  matrka,  (see  e.g.  cja,  253  a'^').  It  is  regularly  used  in  kd,  khd, 
gd  {(jrya),  cd  (253  a^),  nccJid,  td  (253  a'",  or  ttJid,  trd,  tvd),  dd  (253  «''",  or  cli/d,  drd, 
dvd),  nd  {nyd,  253  a^%  bdhd,  hJid  (PI.  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  1.  7),  rd  (PI.  XVIII,  No.  3  b, 
1.  2,  or  rti/d,  ryd,  rhd),  Id  (PI.  XVIII,  No.  2,  1.  5),  vd  (PI.  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  1.  1,  or  vyd), 
xd  {vcd,  svd),  and  is  added  also  to  the  sign  for  initial  a  to  form  initial  d  (PI.  XVIII, 
No.  3  a,  1.  7).  Once  only  the  second  form  is  used  in  kd  (260  i^")  and  the  fourth  form 
in  ivd  (260  a7),  but  in  both  cases  the  aksara  stands  at  the  end  of  the  line,  and 
the  regular  sign  would  have  protruded  on  the  margin.  The  second  form,  a  vertical 
stroke  resembling  the  modern  Nagarl  sign,  occurs  regularly  in  md  (e.g.  253a'"), 
and  dhd,  there  being  only  one  ease  where  dhd  shows  the  first  form  (259  «"'").  The 
IM  sometimes  shows  the  first  form,  but  sometimes  also  a  form  which  might  be  called 
intermediate  between  the  first  and  second  (253  a^').  The  third  form  consists  of 
a  curve,  rising  above  the  head  of  the  matrka,  and  turning  to  the  right.  It  is  vised 
in  pd  (254  i"*,  or  jam  254  «^),  yd  (PL  XVIII,  No.  2,  a,  1.  8),  sm.d,  syd  (254«*),  sd 
(PL  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  1.  7,  or  std  254  d\  dhd  254  a''',  syd,  PL  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  1.  6, 
srd),  and  hd ;  but  never  in  jd  (or  jhd)  and  nd  (or  nyd).  In  the  latter  cases,  there 
is  always  in  use  a  fourth  form,  which  is  a  strong  exaggeration  of  the  third  form, 
and  which  appears  to  have  originated  in  Central  Asia,  though  the  germs  of  it  are 
already  apparent  in  the  Northern  Indian  script  of  the  seventh  century  (see  Biihler's 
Indian  Palaeography,  table  IV,  14"-^" /a,  17^^'-^'^  td,  21*-'- ^'^  nd,  26^^  nd,  27^'"-"'' 
pd,  37""'  ^^  -w).  In  this  form  the  original  curve  is  made  to  rise,  in  two  parallel  lines, 
high  above  the  head  of  the  matrka.  So  we  have  it  always  in  jd  (253  a"',  and 
PL  XVIII,  No.  3  5, 1. 4),  OYJnd  (253  a'^,  and  PL  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  1.  5),  and  in  nd  (253  a"% 
or  nyd  (PL  XVIII,  No.  2, 1.  5),  and  optionally  interchanging  with  the  third  form,  in  tpd 
(253  a"),  pd  (254  IP-,  or  ptd,  ovprd),  yd  (253  a",  but  with  the  third  form  254a',  IS"),  smd 
(254  a"),  syd,  sd  (254  6"\  but  with  third  form  254  a'),  or  std,  or  sthd,  or  smd,  or  syd 
(253  a\  but  with  third  form  254  i^"),  or  srd  (254  d^),  and  hd  (253  a''").  Sometimes, 
indeed,  these  two  forms  are  found  to  alternate  in  the  same  letter  in  the  same  line,  as 
e.  g.  in  pd  (254  5'")  and  in  sthd  (254  a^',  twice  with  the  third,  and  once  with  the  fourth 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARlKA  141 

form) — a  fact  which  shows  them  to  be  mere  varieties  of  an  essentially  identical  form. 
A  modification  of  the  fourth  form  appears  in  jnd  (253  a^^),  in  which  the  down-stroke 
of  the  two  parallels  is  so  reduced  as  to  form  a  mere  hook  at  the  top  of  the  up-stroke. 
A  similar  variety  of  forms  exists  in  the  ease  of  medial  u  and  u.  Medial  u  is 
generally  expressed  by  a  sort  of  wedge  added  at  the  foot  of  the  matrka  (see  e.  g.  ju, 
253  a}).  This  form  is  found  in  cw,  ju,  ddht,  nu  (253  «',  or  nnu),  pu  (253  a^),  bu  (PI. 
XVIII,  No.  2, 1.  4),  mu  (253  a'),  yv.  (PI.  XVIII,  No.  3 1, 1.  8),  lu  (253  a^%  hu,  su  (hu), 
su  (PI.  XVIII,  No.  2, 1.  2,  or  nsu),  An.  But  in  other  cases  medial  u  is  denoted  by  a 
curve  or  a  hook.  In  ht  (253  a^'),  du  (254  a''',  5''')  and  ru  (259  a''')  the  sign  exactly 
resembles  the  modern  Nagari  sign.  In  ffit  (253  a"- "')  and  m  (253  a"')  the  u  is  ex- 
pressed by  an  upward  curve  attached  to  the  lower  part  or  the  middle  of  the  second 
vertical  of  the  matrka.  The  same  sign  is  added  below  to  the  foot  of  the  letter  in  d6/iu 
(259  6"'-''')  and  mostly  in  tu  (254  «^",  b'- ",  259  5'^,  260  a'^  in  d/idiu),  but  in  hi  (254  a"' 
and  260  a^^  in  samprakdiayitum)  the  a-sign  has  the  shape  of  the  modem  NagarT  sign 
for  medial  «. 

For  medial  «  we  find  four  different  forms,  which  are  apparently  nothing  but  the 
forms  for  medial  u  doubled.  (1)  The  wedge-shaped  form  is  doubled  in  pv,  (e.g.  253  a"), 
mv,  (260  H^'^),  su  (253  i"),  and  Im  (253  b™),  the  two  wedges  being  placed  one  before 
the  other  and  the  first  one  being  connected  by  an  ascendant  line  with  the  foot  of 
the  matrka.  (2)  The  sign  for  u  in  kv,  (253  dy^)  is  the  doubled  «-sign  used  in  ku  with 
shortening  of  the  second  sign.  (3)  The  sign  used  in  iu  is  doubled  to  denote  the  long 
vowel  in  m  (253  a''"),  and  (4)  the  sign  found  in  dhlm  is  doubled  with  enlarging  of  the 
lower  sign  in  bliii  (253  a^^). 

The  ordinary  form  of  medial  i  takes  the  form  of  an  erect  acute  angle,  seen 
e.  g.  in  ti  (253  a'").  Twice,  however,  it  occurs  in  a  modified  form,  in  which  the 
angle  appears  to  be  laid  on  one  of  its  sides,  viz.  on  the  right  side  in  li  (260  i') 
and  on  the  left  in  bin  (253  ^■"').  The  former  prone  alternative  seems  to  be  restricted 
to  combination  with  I,  while  the  latter  does  not  seem  to  be  subject  to  any  par- 
ticular restriction.     All  the  three  forms  occur  in  the  third  fragment,  see  p.  168. 

A  modified  form  of  medial  o  is  found  in  lo  (e.  g.  253  5',  259  a7- ''"),  the  right 
part  of  the  ordinary  sign  being  attached  to  the  upper  end  of  the  vertical  bar  of  the 
la  and  drawn  out  into  a  long  downward  straight  line,  exactly  as  in  the  fourth  form 
of  the  medial  a} 

The  rest  of  the  medial  vowels  appears  in  one  form  only. 

As  regards  consonantal  signs,  it  will  be  observed  that  the  wedge  at  the  foot  of 
the  second  vertical  of  ga  (e.  g.  253  cC)  and  m  (PJ.  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  1.  1),  and  mostly 
also  the  faint  side-stroke  of  ia,  disappear  whenever  another  consonant  is  joined  to 

^  [Most  of  these  vowel  signs  occur  also  in  the  Sanskrit  Vajracchedika  MS.,  see 
p.  178.— K.  H.] 


H2  MISCELLANEOUS  PKAGMENTS 

those  letters  at  the  bottom  ;  see  e.  g.  gra  (:233  l^^,  254  i"'"),  sn  (253  a'''),  ^ci  (253  h', 
PI.  XVIII,  No.  3  b,  1.  1).  Under  the  same  condition  the  ta  also  generally  loses 
its  side-stroke,  and  in  such  cases  the  sign  for  ta  does  not  differ  from  that  for 
na  ;  see  e.  g.  tta  (253  O),  f.ra  (253  a"),  tva  (253  d^)  ;  also  tr  (253  *■).  Occasionally 
in  the  case  of  tra,  the  side-stroke  is  optionally  retained ;  thus  in  tatra  (253  a'), 
putm  (254 fl",  h"),  and  ^a/f/w  (253  i")  with  the  side-stroke;  but  tatra  (254a') 
and  jjidra  (253  «""■)  without  it.  See  also  the  introductory  remarks  to  the  second 
Saddharma-pundarlka  fragment  [infra,  p.  162).  If  ka  is  combined  with  another 
consonant,  or  with  the  vowels  ii,  u,  or  r,  its  lower  portion  is  dropped  altogether, 
the  /m  again  closely  resembling  the  na  ;  see  e.  g.  ha,  hi  (PL  XVIII,  No.  3  a, 
I.  4),  kya  (253  ^«ij,  hi  (253  a^'),  M  (253  a^%  h  (253  a^).  In  this  case,  however, 
a  confusion  with  na  can  rarely  arise,  as  in  ligatures  with  h  the  subscript  letter 
is  generally  attached  to  the  left  (e.g.  ha  253  a\  PL  XVIII,  No.  2,  1.  4),  not  to  the 
right  side  of  the  letter  as  in  ligatures  with  na  (e.  g.  nyd  253  «'",  nsa  PI.  XVIII,  No.  2, 
1.  4)  ;  also  the  forms  for  medial  u  and  u,  used  in  kii  and  M,  are  quite  different  from  those 
occurring  in  combination  with  na  (comp.  kii,  253  «''  with  nii  253  a'). 

The  superscript  r  is  placed  above  the  line  if  added  to  h/,  na,  ta,  and  him  (see 
f.  g.  /■««.  253  «"',  /7!i  254  a"',  ;'/y(7  254  a™),  and  upon  the  line  if  added  to  tha, 
iJlia,  ma,  ya,  la,  va,  sa  and  Aa  (see  e.g.  rji/a  253a"',  rya  PI.  XVIII,  No.  2,  1.  1, 
fva  253  a'").  In  this  connexion,  it  may  be  noted  that  the  peculiar  sign  which 
indicates  the  special  r  of  the  Khotanese  and  Kuchean  languages  of  Eastern 
Turkestan,  and  which  in  the  sequel  is  transcribed  by  ;7',^  occurs  seven  times  in  our 
foiir  folios.  As  a  rule  it  is  found  in  the  subscript  position,  with  k  (e.  g.  in  m/crra 
254  a^',  cai-ira  254  a''",  260  a^\  vjMsamhramui.m  260//),  gJi  (in  tighrra  254  J''-  ^'-  '"), 
but  once  it  occurs  also  in  the  superscript  position  with  I,  in  durrlabham  (254  a^^)? 
Its  shape  may  be  seen  in  PL  XVIII,  No.  2,  1.  5  prra,  and  1.  6  srre.  See  also  the  intro- 
ductory remarks  to  the  second  Saddharma-pundarlka  fragment  {infra,  p.  163). 

The  subscript  v  is  sometimes  written  h  ;  thus  mth  t  in  satlia  253  a^  (but  satva 
253  a-^),  259  a"',  260  a^-  ^' ;  kutba  259  5"' ;  with  d  in  (/ia"  253  i^\ 

Absence  of  vowel  in  the  case  of  /  (253  a'^,  and  PL  XVIII,  No.  2, 1.  3),  n  (253  b\ 
259  fl"''),  and  m  (253//",  254  a'- ''•■'")  is  indicated  by  writing  a  half-sized  letter 
without  the  serif  below  the  line  and  placing  a  curve  above  it.  The  letters  t  and  n. 
can  hardly  be  distinguished. 

A  few  remarks  are  called  for  by  the  punctuation.  The  full  stop  is  generally 
indicated  by  a  dot  placed  on  the  line  (e.  g.   253  a"'"^ ;    also  PL  XVIII,  No.   3  b. 


^  [See  Professor  Leumann's   dissertation  Zur  nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur, 
j)p.  41,  57  ;  also  infra,  p.  217. — E.  H.] 

^  [For  an  instance  of  superscript  rr  in  Khotanese  writii)g,  see  p.  397. — E.  H.] 


SADDHARMA-PUNDAKIKA  143 

11.  7,  8).^  Four  times,  after  samdrxyate  in  253  a'^',  after  ahhdsaia  in  253  b'',  after 
lohadMtau  in  259  a^",  and  after  parhrtd  in  259  V",  we  find  the  double  dot,  whicli 
occurs  also  in  inscriptions  *  and  in  the  Bower  MS.*  In  253  li^  it  is  followed  by 
a  double  vertical  stroke,  which  appears  also  alone  to  mark  the  end  of  a  sentence  in 
259  ¥■  ^",  260  «'■  ^".  In  253  If,  260  a'-  ^'^  the  two  vertical  strokes  are  joined  at  their 
lower  ends  by  a  slanting  line ;  in  259  ¥■  ™  they  are  not  connected.  The  use  of  all 
these  signs  is  rather  arbitrary.  They  are  frequently  wanting  where  we  should 
expect  them,  while  once  (259  «^)  it  is  found  in  a  place  where  it  is  superfluous.  See 
also  the  remarks  on  blundered  dots  on  p.  156. 

Before  entering  into  a  discussion  of  the  contents  of  the  fragment,  I  give  the 
text  of  the  four  leaves,  with  the  text  of  the  Nepalese  manuscripts  printed  opposite, 
and  a  translation.  For  the  Nepalese  text  I  beg  to  offer  my  sincerest  thanks  to 
Professor  Kern,  who,  when  I  showed  him  the  fragment,  at  once  j)romised  to  copy 
out  for  me  the  corresponding  passages  from  the  edition  of  the  Saddharma-pundarlka, 
which  he  had  ready  for  publication.  Of  the  manuscripts  used  by  Professor  Kern,  A 
belongs  to  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  B  to  the  British  Museum,  C''  C*"  to  the 
University  of  Cambridge,  K  to  Mr.  Kawaguchi,  W  to  Mr.  Watters. 

[Note.  It  is  due  to  Professor  Liiders  to  explain  that  his  quotation  of  the 
Nepalese  text,  printed  below,  was  completed  before  the  Bibliotheca  Buddhica 
edition  appeared  in  print,  and  that  after  a  delay,  for  which  he  is  in  no  wise 
responsible,  it  is  now,  for  considered  reasons,  published  exactljr  as  it  was  originally 
written  out  by  him.  Professor  Liiders  states  that  '  his  Nepalese  text  reads  exactly 
as  it  was  copied  for  him  by  Professor  Kern,  but  that  the  text  which  is  now 
published  in  the  Bibliotheca  Buddhica  shows  several  discrepancies  which  he  is  unable 
to  account  for.  If  the  readings  of  the  text  in  the  Bibliotheca  Buddhica  should  be 
correct,  that  would  affect  more  or  less  his  remarks  on  samjdnunti  (253  a"',  p.  159), 
samsntavdn  (253  a''",  p.  161),  the  missing  aiiuttardih  (253  S"\  p.  157),  samprahdsayaty 
(254  a'^,  p.  161),  pnivartikdnmk  (260  ft'"',  p.  161),  but  not  the  general  results  arrived 
at.'     But  the  fact  is  that  the  Bibliotheca  Buddhica  print  does  not  present  a  pure 

'  1  think  it  highly  probable  that  this  dot  occurs  also  in  the  fragments  of  a  block- 
print  from  Idytkutsari,  edited  by  Pischel  (Sitzungsberiohte  der  Kgl.  Preuss.  Akademie  der 
Wissenschafteu,  1904,  p.  807  ff.).  In  these  fragments  the  virama  is  generally  expressed 
by  a  dot  placed  above  the  letter,  the  dot  in  such  cases  corresponding  to  the  semicircle 
employed  in  our  fragment.  Three  times,  however,  after  avocat  in  161  a"'  and  after  duakrtam. 
in  171  a^',  171  6"'  two  dots  appear,  one  above  and  the  other  after  the  last  letter.  Pischel 
considered  this  to  be  the  original  designation  of  the  virama,  but  as  avocat  stands  at  the  end 
of  a  sentence  and  asti  dushrtam  appaiently  are  the  last  words  of  a  verse,  I  feel  almost 
sure  that  the  second  dot  is  the  sign  of  punctuation. 

*  Biihler,  Indische  Palaeographie,  p.  84. 

'"  See  e.g.  Part  V,  fol.  2  a,  1.  4  ;  fol.  3  6,  11.  1,  3,  &c. 


lU 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


Nepalese  text,  but  incorporates  a  nunrber  of  Eastern  Turkestani  readings  (denoted 
by  O  ;  see  Prof.  Kern's  Add.  Note,  p.  v),  such  as  sraiiimyaty  (p.  264, 1.  9)  for  saihpra- 
kdmyaty.  The  two  portions  of  text  preserved  in  our  fragment  are  in  that  print  on 
p.  261,  1.  14-p.  265, 1.  3,  and  on  p.  269, 1.  7-p.  271, 1.  3.— R.  H.] 


TEXT 


HOERNLE  MS.    No.  148. 
Fol.  253  Obv. 

1  (.so7"!;)e  ca  [te)  Mamjusri?/a  Ku7)ia- 

ra-?)/i«tena  vi(H.)i(i!)a,  anuttara- 
sya^  samyak-sambodhau  tatra 
ye  bo- 

2  dliisatvd  -iftahayana-saiiiprasthi/ah 

])Z\rvam.  rtbhtivams  te  mahaya- 
na-guna  ^  sat-parami- 

3  ^ah  saitirarnayamti  • 

sarve  ca 
te  sra'Dfl-dharmali  ^unyan^  iti 
saiiijananti  mabayana-gunam 

4  b    ca    '    atha   A7iaiu   Mamjusrih 

liu  m  ara-bhtifet/i,  Praj  naktitam 
iodhisatvam  etad  ai^ocat^  sarvo 

5  '^arii  Ztdaputra   maya  samudra- 

madbya-gatena  satba-vinayah 
krtalj  sa  c^^iyaiii  saiiidr- 

6  syate  :    atha  Prajnakuto   bodbi- 

satvo  Mamjusn(/am  kumara- 
bhutaiii  gath-abbi^itena  pari- 
prccha- 

^  Read  anntlarasydm. 

^  Read  gxmdn. 

^  Read  dharmdJi  miiydn. 


Nepalese  MSS. 


sarve  ca  te  Manjusriya  kumara- 
bbutena  vinita  anuttarayaiii  sa- 
myak-sambodhau I  tatra  ye  bo- 

dhisattva  ^  mahayana-samprasthitah 
purvam  abhuvarris  te  mahayana- 
gunan\  satrparami- 

tah  saiiivarnayaDti  l  \ye  sruraka-purra 
hodhisattvds  ^  te  srdvaka-i/dnam  eva 
saiiwarnayanti  i]  sarve  ca  te  sarva- 
dbarman  ^  chunyan  iti  samjanate 
sma  mabayana-gunarh- 

s  caiatha  kbalu  Manjiisrili  kumara- 
bbutab  Prajnakutaiii  bodbisatt- 
vam  etad  avocat^  i  sarvo 

Vaih  kulaputra  maya  samudra*- 
madhya-gatena  sariivinayab  krtali 
sa  c^^yaiii  saiiidr- 

syate  i  atha  kbalu  Prajnakuto 
bodbisattvo  Maioju^riyarh.  kuma- 
ra-bhtitarii  gath-abhigitena  pari- 
prccha- 

^  C"  adds  fnahdsattvd. 

^  AW  "purra-hodlii". 

^  BK  ^arvdn  Aha. 

*  AW  mahd-mnm . 


SADDHARMA-PUNDAEIKA 


145 


HOEENLE  MS.    No.  148. 

7  t^  mahasamudra  ^  mahaprajna  ma- 
ha^ura  ma/iabala  •  asamkhyeya 
\mita 


Read  mahahhculra. 


Nepalese  MSS. 

ti  sma  ^  II  mahabhadra  prajnaya 
sura-namann  asaiiikhyeya  ^  ye 
vinitas  \tvay^Adya  i  sattvd  ami  kasya 
codyam  prabhdvas  tad  iruhi  prsto 
naradeva  tvam  etat^  II 47  ii  Kam  vd 
dharmaih  desitavdn  asi  tvam  Mm  vd 
sutraih  hodhi-mdrg-6padeseyaih  \  yac 
chrutv^Ami  bodhaye  jdta-cittdh  sarva- 
jnatve  niscite  labdha-gathdh  ^  II  48  ii 
Manjusrlr  dha\samudra-madhye  Sad- 
dharma-pundarikam  sutraih  *  hhdsi- 
tavdn  na  c^Anyat^  I  Prajndkuta  aha  I 
idaih  sidraih  gambhlrath  suksmaih 
durdrsam  ^  na  c^dnena  sutrena  kimcid 
anyat  mtram  samam  asti  I  asti  kascit 
sattvo  ya  idaih  sutra-ratnam "  saiku- 
rydd  avaboddhum  anuttardih  samyak- 
sambodhim  abhisaihboddhum  \  Manju- 
srlr dha  I  asti  kulaputra  Sdgarasya 
ndga-rdjao  duhit^dsta-varsd  jdtyd 
mahd-prajhd  iiksn-endriyd  jndna- 
purvamgamena  kdya-vdn-manas-kar- 
mand  samanvdgatd  sarva-tathdgata- 
bhdsita-vyanjan-drth-6dgrahane  dhd- 
ranl-pratilabdhd  sarva-dharma-sattva- 
samddhdna-  samddhi  -  sahasr-mka-lak- 
sana-pratildbhin'i   i  hodhicitt-dvinivar- 


1  G'  paryaprccliaia,  ¥^  panjaprcchaf. 

2  KW  °'khjayu. 

3  A  >-,    B   °ldbMl;,    C  'ndhhdh,   K 
"(jddhdh . 

*  BC^K  om. 

^  W  durdasanai'ii . 

^  BK  ratiia-sutrai'ii . 


UQ 


MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


HOERNLE  MS.   No.  148. 


kadacid  viryarh  srarii- 
Fol.  253  Eev. 

1  sitavan,  trsaliasra-mahasahasra- 
yam  loZ;a-dhato'  n^^sti  sa  ka- 
^cid  antamasah  sarsapa-ma- 

3  tro  prade^ah  yatr«S,nena  ^arirarh 
na  niksiptam  satva-lietoh  pa- 
Scad  bodhim  abhisamftuddha^  • 
ka,  e- 

3  ^arii  (sra)ddadhasyati  yah  sakya^ 

muhurten#4nutta(r«)*  samyak- 
saiiibodbim  abhisamboddhum, 
atba  tasyaiii 

4  vela,ysim    fifagara-naf/a-raja-du/d^a 

agratah  sthita  drsyate  sa  hhn- 
gavata- 

'   Read  °clhatau. 

-  Read  °^?<(ir///fl^  (see  p.  156). 

^  Read  iaJcyam. 

*  Read  "nutlaidm. 


Nepalese  MSS. 

fml  vistlrna-pranidhdnd  sarva-satt- 
vesv  cttma-prem- dnuffatd  gun-Stpd- 
dane  ^  ca  samarthd  na  ca  tebhyah  pari- 
hiyate  i  smita-mukhi  paramayd  subha- 
varna-puskaratayd  samanvdgatd  mai- 
tra-cittd  karundm  ca  vdcaiii  bhdsate  I 
sd  samyak-sambodhim  abhisambod- 
dhum  samarthd  ii  Prajhdkuto  bodhi- 
sattva  aha  t  drsto  mayd  bhagavdii 
Sdkyarmwis  tathdgato  bodhdya  ghata- 
mdno  bodhisattva-bhuto  'nekdni  pun- 
ydni  krtavdn  anekdni  ca  kalpa-saha- 
srani  na\  kadacid  viryarh  sarh- 

sritavan  i  tri-sahasra-mahasabasra- 
yarh  ]oka-dhatau  n#asti  kascid 
aiitasah  sarsapa-ma- 

tro  \^pi  j3?-<AM-?-]pradeso  yatr#anena 
^ariram  na  niksiptam  sattva- 
[Az;a-]hetoh  i  pascad  bodhim  abhi- 
sambuddhah  i  ka  e- 

vam  ^  sraddadhyad  ^  yad  \anayd'\  * 
sakyaih  muhtirtena  samyak-sam- 
bodhim abhisaihboddhiim,  ii  atha 
\khalii\  tasyaih 

velayam  Sagara  -  naga-raja  -  duhit^ 
4gratah  sthita  [.f«m]drsyate  [swa]'! 
sa  bhagavata- 

^  BK  "nend. 
^  BK  enam,  W  efdfu. 
^  B     ^radd/idsi/ati,     K     SraddJiadhydt, 
C  .(raddadhdt. 

*  BK  yat  layd,  C  yadu  nayd. 
^  A^^'  om. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDAEIKA 


147 


HOEENLE  MS.   No.  148. 

5  h  jjadau  sw'asa  vamcly^«aik4mte 

'stha^  tasyam  veZai/aihm  ^  ima 
gatha  abhasata  :  ii  punyam 
punya- 

6  (^gahh)irSim  ca  disah  spharati  sar- 

va(sa)li  stiksmam  (^ar)iram 
dbatriiiii^a-laksanais  samalaiii- 
krtam^  anuvyaiii- 

7  (^jana)-yuktsim.  ca  saxv-Sbsatva-nst- 

maskr  tv  ^-ihhi{gamya)m  ca 
antarapanavad  yatha  yaiii 

Fol  254  Ohv. 

1  ya(^7^^)  sambodhiiii  siksi  me  tatra 
ta^/iagata*  •  vistlrnam  de^ayi- 
syami  sarva-du^Jkha^-pramoca- 
nam^  a- 

3  tha  tasyam  veZayam  ayusman 
C'c/iariputras  iarh  nagaraja-du- 
liitaram  etad  avocat,  kevalam 

3  kula-duhite  bodhaya  cittam  ut- 

pan%am  &viva,r{ty)<^ipramejSi,- 
prajna  c«4si  samyak-samktd- 
dhatvaiii  tu  du- 

4  rrlabham,  asti  kula-duhite  stri  na 

ca  vivyam  sraiiisayati  anekani 

1  Originally  vedy-^'ai  was  written,  but 
the  scribe  seems  to  have  corrected  ve  into 
vam  by  effacing  the  down-stroke  of  the 
e-sign.  ^  Read  velaydm. 

3  See  p.  156.  *  Read  °(jatah. 

^  The  visarga  in  clulMia  has  been 
added  afterwards  above  the  line. 


Nepalese  MSS. 

h  padau  siras^abhivandy  ^^aikante 
'sthat  tasyam  velayam  ima  gatha 
abhasata  ii  punyam  punyam 

gambhiram  ca  disah  sphurati  sarva- 
sah  t  suksmam  ^ariram  dvatrim- 
sal-laksanaih  samalamkrtamii49ii 
anuvyaii- 

jana-yuktam  ca  sarva-sattva-nama- 
skr[ifam  i  sarwa-sajttv-abhigamyam 
ca  antarapanavad  yatha  u  50  u  ya- 


[<A-eccAa]ya  me  sambodhih  saksi  me 
'tra  tathagatah  i  vistirnam  desa- 
yisyami  dharmam  duhkha-pra- 
mocanam^  ii  51  n  a- 

tha  \khalu\  tasyam  velayam  ayus- 
maii  Sariputras  tarn  [Sa^«ra-]na- 
ga-raja-duhitaram  etad  avocat^  i 
kevalam 

bhagini  ^  bodhaya  cittam  utpannam 
avivarty  ^aprameya-prajna  c«4si 
samyak-sambuddhatvaiii  tu  du- 

rlabham  i  asti  bhagini  ^  stri  na  ca 
viryarri  saiiiprakasayaty  *  \_aneTiani 

'  AW  "na  vandiivd. 
"-  BCK  te  kulaimtri. 
3  BC'K  kidaputri. 

*  C"    janayati,    BK     mmmayati,     W 
prami/ati. 


h2 


148 


MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 


HOERNLE  MS.  No.  148. 
ca  kalpa-sahasrfi- 

ni  punjSini  karoti  sat-paramitah 
paripurayate  •  na  c^ady^^pi 
buddhatvam  pr^ptobhi  ^ 

kim  (^«)ranam  paihca  sthanani 
acZy^api  stri  ua  pr^piioti  •  jora- 
thamarii  bralima-sthanam  dvi- 
tiyam  ^akrra-stlia- 

narh  •  ^rtiyaiii  maharaja-stha- 
namm^^caturtham  caZ,Travarti- 
sthanam  pancamam  avaivarii- 
ka-bodhisatva- 

Fol  254  Eev. 

sihsmsiva^  atba  tasyaiii  velayam 
Sagara-nagaraja-(£uhitur  ekaih 
mani-ra!!?iam  asti  ya  ^  krtsnaiii 

trsahasra-masabasraiii  *  lokadha- 
tnih  mulyaih  ^  ksamai^i  sa  ca 
manis  taya  nagaraja  -  dubitrfi 
bha- 

gavafo  datto  bhagavata  c«S,nu- 
kampam  upada^a  pratigrhita^  • 
atba  Sagara-nagaraja- 

duhita  Prajnakutaiii  bo(£Aisatvam 
stbaviram  ca  Sariputram  etad 
avocat^  yo  'yam  maya  bha- 


1  Rea,d  j}rdj]noti. 

^  Read  sthmiam^  or  sthdnam. 

^  Read  yat.    Z 

*  Read  mahdsdhasram. 

®  Read  miilyai'ii,  and  °grhitah. 


Nepalese  MSS. 

ca  kalpa-satunij'\  anekani  ca  kalpa- 
sabasra- 

ni  punyani  karoti  sat-paramitah 
pariptirayati  na  c«idy«api  bud- 
dhatvam pr^pnoti  I 

kini-karanam  i  panca  sthanani  stry 
ady^api  na  pr4pnoti  l  \_katamdni 
panca  i]  prathamam  brahma-stha- 
narh  dvitiyaiii  ^akra-stha- 

nam  trtiyam  maharaja-sthanam^ 
caturtham  cakravarti  -  sthanam 
pancamam  avaivartika  -  bodhisa- 
ttva- 


sthanam,  ii  atha  [_khalu\  tasyam  vela- 
yarii  Sagara-nagaraja-duhitur  eko 
manir  ^  asti  yah  krtsnarii 

trisahasram  mahasahasram  loka- 
dhaturii  mulyam  ksamate  i  sa  ca 
manis  tayil  [-Sf(r/rt/-«-]nagaraja-du- 
hitra  bha- 

gavate  dattah  i  [sa]  bhagavata  c<^ 
^nukampjim  upadaya^  pratigrhi- 
tah  I  atha  Sagara-nagaraja- 

duhita  Prajnakutarii  bodbisattvaih 
sthaviram  ca  Sariputram  etad 
avocat  J  yo  'yarii  manir  maya  bha- 


1  C'  °rdjika°. 

^  BK  " ka-mani-rafnaiii . 

^  B  "PAmikampu.m  vpaddya. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARIKA 


149 


HOERNLE  MS.    No.  148. 

5  gavata  ^  manir  dattah  sa  ca  bha- 

gava(^a  s)ighrram  pratlgrhito 
n^^^ti  sthavira  aha  •  tva^a  ca  si- 

6  ghrram  datto   bhagavata   ca   ^I- 

ghrram  ^ra^^grhitah  Sagara- 
nagaraja-duhit^^lia  •  bhadamta 
Saripu- 

7  tra  ysidy  ahaiii  mardliini  ^  sjarh 

gigbrratara  ^  samyak-sambo- 
dhim  abhisambuddhyeyam  na 
c«4sya  maneh  pratigra- 

Fol.  259  Obv. 


•preLtivitarkam.  ajnaya  Yasodha- 
ram  bhiksunim  etad  avocat, 
arocayami  te  YaSodhare 

itas  ca.'vitva  stri-bhavam  vivarta- 
yitva  da(s)anaiii  buddha-koti- 
nayuta-sata-sa^asranam 

santike  hodhisatvo  cZ/iarma-bba- 
nako  bhavisyasi  •  anupurvena 
ca  bodhisatba-caryaiii  pari- 


4  pz7rayi^i;a  pa^cime  samucchraye 
Easmi-^ata-sahasra-paripuraa- 
dhvajo  nama 

1  Read  Ihagavato. 

2  Read  maharddhiifi. 
^  Read  sigJirataraw. 


Nepalese  MSS. 

gavato  dattah  sa  ca  bhagavata 
Sighram  pratigrhito  n^eti^  >  tvaya 
ca  ^i- 

ghraiii  datto  bhagavata  ca  ^ighraiii 
pratigrhitah  i  Sagara-nagaraja- 
diihit^^ha  i  yady  aham  bhadanta 
oaripu- 

tra  maharddhiki  syam  ^ighrataram 
samyak-sarhbodhim  abhisambu- 
dhyeyaiii  na  c^asya  maneh  pra- 
tigra- 

\hakah  sydt^  ll] 

\Atha  khalu hhagavdn  Yasodhardya  bhik- 
sunyds  cetas-^aiva  cetah-'j 

parivitarkam  ajnaya  Yasodharam 
bhiksunim  etad  avocat^  i  aroca- 
yami te  Yasodhare 

[p7~ativedaydmi  te  \  tvam  apt]  da^anam 
buddha-koti-sahasranam 

antike  [satkd}-a7h  gurukdram  mdnandm 
pujandm  arcandm  wpacdyandm^  krtvd] 
bodhisattvo  dharma  -  bhanako 
bhavisyasi  i  bodhisattva-caryaiii 
c^^nuptirvena  pari- 

purya  '^  Rasmi-.4ata-sahasra-paripur- 
na-dhvajo  nama 


^  K  "to  iitteti ;    W  °ta  utareti ;  B  "ta 
uta  ;  A  °ta. 

^  arcandni  apacdyandi'ti  only  in  K. 


AC'W  paripmayitva. 


150 


MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


HOEENLE  MS.    No.  148. 

5  ^athagafo  'rhaw  samyak-sambud- 

dho  loke  bliavisyasi  •  vidya- 
carana-sariipannah  sug&to  lo- 

6  A-a-vid  anuttarah  purusa-damya- 

sarathih  ^as^a  deva-manusya- 
na  ^  buddho  5/^agavan^  bha  ^- 

7  drayam  loka-dha^au :  aparimitaiii 

ca  tasya  bhagavato  Ea^mi- 
gata-sahasra-pari- 

Fol  259  Eev. 

1  piirna  -  dlivajasya      tathagatasy* 

ayus-pramanam  bhavisyati  ii 
atha  khalu  Mahaprajapati  bhi- 

2  Isnnl  sacZ-bhiksuni-sahasrai  ^  •  sa- 

parivara  bhagavatali  s^ntikad 
atmano  vyaka- 

3  rawam    sru^?)«anuttarayam    sam- 

yak-saiiibodhau  «scar?/a-prap- 
ta  abh€id  adbhuta-prapta  Ya- 
^odhara 

4  hliikswcil  Bahula-mata  catur-bhik- 

sumi-sabasrai  ^  parivrta  :  jjuni- 

5  skrta   hhagSiYatah.  s^ntikat  sam- 

mukham  atmano  vyakaranam 
srutv«anuttar%am 

6  8Siinyak-sai1iibodhsiU  ascarya-prip- 

ta  aMusi  acZi/iztta-pr^ptas  ta- 
syam  velayaiii  til  bhiA^.sMnya  i- 

^  E.ead  "ndi//.  ^  Read  b/ia'. 

"  Read  °srai^  (see  p.  156). 


Nepalese  MSS. 

tathagato  'rhan  samyak-  saiiibiiddho 
loke '  bhavisyasi  vidya-carana- 
sampannah  sugato  lo- 

ka-vid  annttarah  purusa-damva-sa- 
rathih  ^asta  devanam  ca  manu- 


ca    buddho 


bhagavan 


syanam 
bha- 
drayam  loka-dhatau  i  aparimitam  ca 
tasya   bhagavato   Ea^mi-^ata-sa- 
hasra-pari- 


purna-dhvajasya  tathagatasy«[arA«- 
tah  samyak-sambuddhasy<>]a,jus-j)ra- 
manam  bhavisyati  ii  atha  khaki 
jNIahaprajapati  \_Gcmtami]  bhi- 

ksunisad-bhiksuni-sahasra-parivara 


Ya- 

sodhara  ca 
bhiksuni     catur  -  bhiksimi  -  sahasra- 

parivaia 
bhagavato  'ntikat  svakaih  vyaka- 

ranaiii  srutv^anuttarayaih 

samyak  -  sambodhav  ascarya-prap- 
ta  adbhuta-prflptas  ca  tasyarii 
velayam  i 

I  AC^'W  om. 


SADDHAEMA-PUNDAEIKA 

HoERNLE  MS.  No.  148.  I  Nepalese  MSS 

7  md  1   ^athaiii  5/iasimsit  ii  bhaga- 


151 


vara    si   net^^si    vinayako   'si 
sast^^si  lokasya  sa-deva- 

Fol  260  Ohv. 

1  kasya  •  astiasa-data  nara-deva-pu- 

jiti^  vayarii  ti  samtosita  adya 
iiayaZ;a  ii  atlia 

2  khalu  ta  6/dksunya  ima  gatha^ 

hha,sitvd     fc/ia^avantam     etad 
avocu  •  vayam  api  6/iaga- 

3  vann   utsahama    imaiii    dharma- 

paryayaiii  pasci^we  Z;ale  tatha- 
gate  parinivrte  ^  iha  Sa- 

4  he  loka-dlia^au  samprakasayi^ttwi 

ap2/  anyesu  loka-dlia^usu  •  atha 
khalu  bliagavairiJi*  ye- 

5  ta  ^  tany  asiti-bodhisatba-koti-na- 

yuta-sata-sahasrani      pratUab- 
dhanam  hodlnssdhd- 

6  nam   maMsatbaiia "  avaivartika- 

dharma-caA;rra-|^ravarta^a  bo- 
dhisatba  mahasa^'j;as  ten^avaZo- 

7  kayati  sma  ii  atha  khalu  te  bodhi- 

satva ''  •  samanamtar-S,t;aZokita 
evam  6/ia^afata  sarwe  wttha- 

^  Read  immh,  and  itnuTii  gdthdm. 

^  '2i,%2Ap'U'jHo,  and  for  the  same  blunder 
see  the  third  fragment,  rev.  1.  8^  iaill  for 
iailo,  p.  171,  and  Notes,  p.  173. 

^  Read  parlnirvrte. 

^  Read  ihagavdn.  '  Read  °?ia. 

•^   Read  mahdmttvdnditi. 

''  Read  bodhisativdh  (see  p.  156). 


maiii  gatham  abhasanta^  ii  bhaga- 
vau  vineti^asi  vinayako  'si  sast# 
asi  lokasya  sa-deva- 


kasya  i  asvasa-data  nara-deva-pujito 
vayam  pi  samtosita  adya  natha 
II 1  n  atha 

khalu  ta  bhlksunya  imam  gatham 
bhasitva  bhagavantam  etad 
ucuh  I  vayam  api  bhaga- 

vaii  samutsahamaha  ^  imam  dhar- 
ma-paryayam  samprakasayitum 
pascime  kale  \pascime  samaye\ 

'pi  [<t7<;]anyesu  loka-dhatusv  \iti\  ii 
atha  khalu  bhagavan^ye- 

na  tany  asiti-bodhisattva-koti- 
iiay  Lita-sata-sahasraai  \dharanl-~\ 
pratilabdhanaiii  bodhisattva- 

nam  avaivartika  -  dharma  -  cakra- 
pravartikanaiii 

ten^avalo- 

kayamasa  i  atha  khalu  te  bodhi- 
sattva  \raahdsattvdlL\  samanantar- 
4valokite  bhagavata  uttha- 

1  W  "mlah  ;  AB  °mta. 
^  BC'K  cm.  nam. 


152 


MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 


HOERNLE  MS.  No.  148. 

Fol.  260  Bev. 

j^Sisa.nehhijo  yenabliagavams  ten^ 
amjali  ^  jjrawamai/i^va  bliaga- 
vantam  ujjasariikrrammsu  •  e- 

vam  cinta^/aty^  asmakam  api  bha- 
gavan  adhy es[iaty  asya  dhar- 
(ua-paryayasyisana^afe  'dhvawi 
saiiipraka- 

sana(/a)ya  •  atlia  khalu  te  sarve 
bodhisatva  evam  anuvicintayi- 
tva  samprakampa?/isu  (pa)- 

rasparas^/  ^  alvam  ticuh  katliam 
karisyama  kulaputra/io  ayaiii 
bha^avann  ^  asmaA;am  adhye- 

saty  asya  dharma-paryayasy^^na- 
gate  'dhvani  sampraZ;a^anata- 
ya  •  atba  khalu  te  sarve  bodhi- 
satva bhagavata*  gaui'aven^atma- 
na^  ca  purva-cari/a-jjranidha- 
nena  samagrya  bhagavatau  * 
"bhimukha 

sthitva  siiiiAa-nadam  uadinsu  • 
vayarh  bhagavann  itnarii  dhar- 
ma-parj'ayaiii  tathagate  pari- 
nirvrfe  dasa- 


^  Read  dmjalvi'n. 

^  Read  chdaycu'idl. 

^  Read  hlutgavdn. 

*  Read  lliagavato. 


Nepalesb  MSS. 


y^asanebhyo  yena  bhagavams  ten*; 
Mjahrh  pranamy^ai-  ^ 

varii  cmtayainasuh  I  asman^  bhaga- 
van  adhyesajaty  ^  asya  dharma- 
paiyayasya  sampraka- 

i^anatayai  *  i  te  khalv 

evam  anuvi- 

cintya  samprakamjoitah  pa- 
rasparam  ticuh  i  katham  \yayani\  ku- 

laputrali  karisyamo  yad  bhaga- 

van  adhye- 
sayaty    asya     dharma-paryayasy  * 

anagate    'dhvani   saiiipraka^ana- 

tayai '  ii  atha  khalu  te  kula- 
putra  bhagavato  gauraven«4tmana§ 

ca  purva-carya-pranidhanena 

bhagavato 

'bhimukham 
simha-nadaiii  nadante  sma  i  vayaiii 

bhagavann  \anagate  ' dhvan^P^rQ.am. 

dharma-paryayam  tathagate  pari- 

nirvrte  da^a- 
\su  dikm  gatvd    sarva-sattval   lekhayi- 

sydmak      pdthayi^ydmai     cintdpayi- 

sydmah  prakdsayisydmo  bhagavata  ev<- 

dnuhhdvena] 

^  K  pi'anaii/i/fai^. 

^  ABCK  aBmdkam.        ^  K  adhyesaty. 

*  AW  "knidyeti,  B  "mndya. 

^  BK  °iandydi,  C  °sandyati. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARIKA  163 


TRANSLATION.! 

(Fol.  253  a.)  And  all  these  had  been  instructed  by  Manjusri,  the  royal  prince, 
so  that  they  had  reached  the  highest  perfect  enlightenment.  The  Bodhisattvas 
among  them,  who  had  previously  set  out  in  the  Great  Vehicle,  praised  the  virtues 
of  the  Great  Vehicle,  the  six  perfections.^  And  all  of  them  recognized  the  voidness 
of  all  objects  and  the  virtues  of  the  Great  Vehicle.  Thereupon  Manjusri,  the  royal 
prince,  spoke  thus  to  the  Bodhisattva  Prajnakuta  :  '-  Noble  youth,  all  this  instruction 
of  beings  has  been  done  by  me  while  I  was  staying  in  the  midst  of  the  ocean,  and 
this  is  seen  (as  the  result  thereof).'  Thereupon  the  Bodhisattva  Prajnakuta  asked 
Manjusri,  the  royal  prince,  by  chanting  the  (following)  Gathas  : 

'  Most  excellent  one,^  most  wise  one,  great  hero,  most  mighty  one,  innumerable 
(beings)  have  been  instructed '  * 

[The  Bodhisattva  Prajnakuta  said  :  '  T  have  seen  the  Lord  Sakyamuni,  the 
Tathagata,  striving  after  enlightenment.  He  did  many  meritorious  works,  when 
he  had  become  a  Bodhisattva,  and  during  many  thousands  of  ages]  he  never  slackened 
in  his  energy.  (Fol.  253  d.)  In  the  Trisahasra-Mahasahasra  world  there  is  not  even 
a  spot  as  large  as  a  grain  of  mustard-seed  where  he  has  not  sacrificed  his  body  for 
the  sake  of  beings.  Afterwards  he  has  attained  enlightenment.  Who  will  believe 
that '  it  will  be  possible  to  attain  the  highest  perfect  enlightenment  in  one  moment  ? ' 
Now  at  that  instant  the  daughter  of  Sagara,  the  King  of  Nagas,  appeared  standing 
in  front  (of  them).  Having  bowed  her  head  to  the  feet  of  the  Lord,  she  stood  aside. 
At  that  time  she  spoke  the  following  Gathas  : 

'  The  holy,  subtle  body,  gifted  with  profound  virtues,  adorned  wich  the  thirty- 
two  signs,  pervades  the  regions  in  all  directions ; 

'(The  body,)  provided  with  the  secondary  signs,  worshipped  by  all  beings, 
accessible  to  [all]  beings  like  a  market-place. 

'  According  to  my  wishes  was  (Fol.  254  a)  my  enlightenment ; "  the  Tathagata 


'  All  passages  in  square  brackets  have  been  supplied  from  the  Nepalese  text ;  those 
in  round  brackets  are  explanatory. 

'  Here  the  Nepalese  text  adds :  Those  of  the  Bodhisattvas  who  had  been  formerly 
Sravakas  praised  the  Vehicle  of  Sravakas.     [See  Index,  p.  210. — E.  H.] 

'  Mahasamudra  must  be  a  clerical  error  for  mahabhadra. 

*  After  this  there  is  a  long  gap;  see  the  remarks  below,  p.  156. 

^  I  have  translated  yat  instead  of  yah  ;   see  footnote  1  on  p.  159. 

"  I  have  followed  the  Nepalese  text,  as  the  passage  is  corrupt  in  the  fragment. 


154  MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 

is  my  witness  to  it.  I  shall  make  known  the  great  (Law)  that  delivers  from  all 
sufferance.' 

Now  at  that  time  the  exalted  Sariputra  said  to  the  daughter  of  the  King  of  Nagas: 
'  Noble  maid,  thou  hast  only  conceived  the  idea  of  enlightenment  without  turning  back, 
and  thou  art  of  unfathomable  wisdom,  but  perfect  enlightenment  is  difficult  to  attain. 
There  may  be,  noble  maid,  a  woman  that  does  not  slacken  in  energy  and  performs 
meritorious  acts  and  fulfils  the  six  perfections  daring  many  thousands  of  ages,  and 
yet  until  now  none  reaches  Buddhaship.  Why  ?  There  are  five  ranks  that 
a  woman  until  now  cannot  attain  :  firstly,  the  rank  of  Brahman  ;  secondly,  the  rank 
of  Sakra ;  thirdly,  the  rank  of  a  Maharaja  ;  fourthly,  the  rank  of  a  Cakravartin ; 
fifthly,  the  rank  of  a  Bodhisattva  unable  to  turn  back.'  (Fol.  254  h)  Now  at  that 
time  the  daughter  of  Sagara,  the  King  of  Nagas,  possessed  an  excellent  jewel  that 
equalled  in  value  the  whole  Trisfihasra-Mahasahasra  world,  and  this  jewel  was  given 
by  the  daughter  of  the  King  of  Nagas  to  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord  mercifully  accepted 
it.  Then  the  daughter  of  Sagara,  the  King  of  Nagas^  said  to  the  Bodhisattva 
Prajhakuta  and  the  Sthavira  Sariputra  :  '  Was  the  jewel  which  I  gave  to  the  Lord 
promptly  accepted  by  the  Lord  or  not  ? '  The  Sthavira  said,  '  It  was  promptly  given 
by  thee  and  promptly  accepted  by  the  Lord.'  The  daughter  of  Sagara,  the  King  of 
Nagas,  said  :  '  Venerable  Sariputra,  if  I  were  gifted  with  great  magic  power,  I  should 
have  attained  perfect  enlightenment  sooner,  and  [there  would  have  been]  no  one  to 
receive  this  jewel.' 

(Fol.  259  a)  [Then  the  Lord,]  recognizing  [in  his  mind]  the  thoughts  [in  the 
mind  of  the  nun  Yasodhara],  spoke  thus  to  the  nun  Yasodhara  :  '  I  announce  to 
thee  Yasodhara :  Having  left  this  world,  you  will  give  up  the  nature  of  woman  and 
in  the  presence  of  ten  hundred  thousands  of  myriads  of  millions  of  Buddhas  become 
a  Bodhisattva,  a  preacher  of  the  Law.  And  in  due  course,  having  accomplished  the 
course  of  a  Bodhisattva,  thou  shalt  in  thy  last  existence  become  in  the  world 
a  Tathagata  named  Rasmisatasahasraparipurnadhvaja,  an  Arhat,  perfectly  en- 
lightened, endowed  with  knowledge  and  conduct,  a  Sugata,  knowing  the  world, 
supreme,  a  driver  of  the  unbroken  bulls  of  men,  a  teacher  of  gods  and  men,  a  Buddha, 
a  Lord  in  the  Bhadra  world.  And  boundless  shall  be  the  measure  of  life  of  that 
Lord,  the  Tathagata  Rasmisatasahasraparipurnadhvaja.'  (Fol.  259  h.)  Then  the  nun 
Mahaprajapati,  surrounded  by  six  thousand  nuns,  having  heard  from  the  Lord  the 
prophecy  with  regard  to  her  attaining  the  highest  perfect  enlightenment,  was  struck 
with  wonder  and  amazement.  The  nun  Yasodhara,  the  mother  of  Rahula,  suiTOunded, 
accompanied  by  four  thousand  nuns,  having  heard  from  the  Lord  the  prophecy 
referring  to  her  attaining  the  highest  perfect  enlightenment,  was  struck  with 
wonder.  Struck  with  amazement,  those  nuns  at  that  time  spoke  the  following 
Gatha : 


SADDHAKMA-PUNDAKIKA  155 

'  Thou  art  the  Lord,  thou  art  a  leader,  thou  art  an  instructor,  thou  art  a  teacher 
of  the  world  including  the  gods,  (Fol.  260  a)  a  giver  of  comfort,  worshipped  by  men 
and  gods.     To-day  we  have  been  gladdened  by  thee,  0  leader.' 

Then,  having  spoken  this  Gatha,  those  nuns  spoke  thus  to  the  Lord :  '  We  also, 
O  Lord,  will  exert  ourselves  to  proclaim  this  Dharmaparyaya  in  the  last  time,  when 
the  Tathagata  has  become  wholly  extinct,  in  this  Saha  world  and  also  in  other  worlds.' 
Then  the  Lord  looked  towards  the  eighty  hundred  thousands  of  myriads  of  millions 
of  Bodhisattvas  Mahasattvas,  who  had  obtained  [magical  spells],  the  Bodhisattvas 
Mahasattvas  who  made  roll  on  the  wheel  of  the  Law  that  never  rolls  back.  As 
soon  as  those  Bodhisattvas  had  thus  been  looked  at  by  the  Lord,  all  of  them  rose 
from  their  seats^  (Fol.  260  5)  raised  their  folded  hands  towards  the  Lord,  and 
approached  the  Lord.  They  reflected  thus  :  '  We  also  are  invited  by  the  Lord  to 
proclaim  this  Dharmaparyaya  in  future.'  When  they  had  thus  reflected,  all  those 
Bodhisattvas  trembled.  They  asked  one  another  thus  :  '  What  shall  we  do,  noble 
youths  ?  the  Lord  here  invites  us  to  proclaim  this  Dharmaparyaya  in  future.' 
Thereupon,  out  of  respect  for  the  Lord  and  on  account  of  their  own  vows  in  their 
previous  course,  all  those  Bodhisattvas  together,  turning  their  faces  towards  the 
Lord,  roared  a  lion's  roar :  '  When  the  Tathagata  has  become  wholly  extinct,  we, 
O  Lord,  [want  to  go  in  the]  ten  [directions  and  make  all  beings  write,  read, 
think  over  and  proclaim]  this  Dharmaparyaya  [by  the  power  of  the  Lord].' 

NOTES. 

The  orthography  of  the  fragment  calls  for  few  remarks.  After  ;•  a  consonant  is 
never  doubled  ;  nor  after  rr  (in  durrlab/iam  254  a'"').  As  the  first  letter  in  a  group 
a  consonant  is  doubled  only  once  in  abldsamhuddhyeyam  (254  5''").  In  dyvsmdn 
Cchdriputras  (254  a")  the  cha  is  doubled  after  h  against  the  common  rule.  On  the 
other  hand,  the  etymological  double  consonant  is  simplified  in  the  word  mtva 
everywhere  (e.g.  253  «"• '''■■'■ ''')  and  in  ma\ha\rdliini  in  254  i""'.  The  jihvamuliya 
and  upadhmaniya  do  not  occur,  and  a  sibilant  before  another  sibilant  appears  as 
visarga,  except  in  laksanau-  samalamhrtam  (253  If'^).  Before  s  followed  by  a  con- 
sonant, visarga  is  dropped  once  in  °hJiimuMd  sthitvd  (260  J'").  As  frequently  in 
manuscripts  and  inscriptions,  r  is  written  for  ri  in  trsdkasra  (253  6*,  254  i").  Clerical 
errors  seem  to  abound.  In  254  a''  we  find  prdptobhi  iox  jirdpnoti,  and  in  260  a''  yeta 
for  7/ena.  Twice  the  syllable  Jia  or  hd  is  missed  out,  viz.  in  254  i"  masdhasram 
for  mahdsdJiasraih,  and  in  254  i''"  mardJiiril  for  maharddhinl.  The  short  vowel  is 
written  instead  of  the  long  one  in  °dliarmah  (253  a"'),  sunydn  (253  a'"),  mitlyam 
(254  5"),  and  the  long  vowel  instead  of  the  short  one  in  hhddrdydm  (259  cC"). 
0  takes  the  place  of  au  in  loha-dhdto  (253  ¥),  and  au  the  place  of  o  in  Ihagavatau 


156  MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 

(2601/'^').  Instead  of  o  we  find  a  in  llmgavata  (2545^),  d  in  Ihagavata  (260  i'"), 
and  i  in  "pujiti  (260  a').  Anusvara  is  missing  in  anuttarasyci  (253  «'),  sakya  (253  J"'), 
°dimUara  (253  5'"),  sighrratara  (254.1?'"^"),  °maniisi/ana  (259  a'''),  iraa  (259  5™),  imd 
gatha  (260  a"),  maliasatbdnd  (260  a^"),  °amjaVi  (260  5'),  cintayaty  (260  5"),  and  on  the 
other  hand  superfluously  added  in  velnyamm  (253  5''),  "sthdnaihm  (254  a''"),  hhagavdmn 
(260  a''').  Visarga  is  omitted  in  abJdsambuddlm  (253  5"),  tathdgata  (254  a'), 
pratigrhUa  (254  5'"),  'saJiasrai  (259  5"),  and  hodhisatvd  (260  a™),  but  it  is  to  be 
observed  that  in  all  these  eases  the  word  is  followed  by  a  single  dot  which  appears  to 
be  a  blunder  for  the  double  dot  of  the  visarga,^  while  in  the  ease  of  °sahasrai  (259  5'^) 
that  double  dot  (or  visarga)  is  misplaced  after  parivrtd.  Final  n  is  missing  in  gund 
(253  a"),  final  t  in  ya  (254  5"),  and  medial  superscribed  r  in  parinivrte  (260 a™).^ 
In  260  5'''  we  have  hhagavann  for  hliagavdn. 

Considering  the  limited  extent  of  the  fragment,  this  is  rather  a  long  list,  but 
it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  it  is  not  quite  sure  that  in  all  these  cases  we 
really  have  to  assume  mere  clerical  errors.  Some  of  those  forms,  such  as 
piujiti,  gund,  &c.,  may  after  all  be  Prakrit,  and  others,  such  as  mnydn,  mulyam, 
bhddrdydm,  &c.,  mtiy  be  imperfect  and  incorrect  Sanskrit  renderings  of  Prakrit  forms, 
due,  not  to  a  mistake  of  the  scribe,  but  to  the  ignorance  of  the  author  of  the  text. 

A  certain  want  of  care  on  the  part  of  the  scribe,  however,  is  undoubtedly 
proved  by  a  number  of  omissions,^  especially  on  the  first  two  leaves.  The  largest 
lacuna  occurs  in  253  «■"',  where  the  text  suddenly  breaks  ofl^ after  viultd  in  the  middle 
of  a  Gatha.  The  Nepalese  text  shows  that  about  420  aksaras  are  omitted,  so  that 
it  becomes  almost  certain  that  a  whole  leaf  of  the  original  manuscript  was  missing 
or  overlooked  by  the  scribe.  In  253  a"'  the  Nepalese  MSS.  add  after  samvarnayanfi : 
ye  srdvaha-pmrvd  hodhisattvds  te  srmaha-ydnam  eva  samvarnayanti,  and  the  context  shows 
that  such  a  supplementary  sentence  is  absolutely  necessary.  It  is  highly  probable, 
therefore,  that  the  scribe  of  our  manuscript  inadvertently  omitted  it  by  passing  from 
the  word  samvarnayanti  of  the  preceding  sentence  to  the  same  word  in  the  next  one. 
Similarly  in  253  5"  the  words  'pi  prthivi  seem  to  have  been  left  out  between  sanapa- 
mdtro  and  prademJi,  which  would  account  for  the  o  of  sarsapa-mdtro.  In  253  5'"'  four 
aksaras  [tarn  i  sarvasa)  are  omitted.  In  253  5'"',  254:  a^  two  aksaras  are  missing  in 
yaih  ydmi  saihlodhii'ii,  for  which  the  Nepalese  MSS.  read  yatli-eecliayd  me  sambodhiJi. 
In  260  «■'  the  word  dlidrani  is  omitted  before  pratilahdhdndm,  probably  because  the 
word  preceding  dJidranl  ended  in  tii.  For  a  similar  reason  abMsi  is  probably  omitted 
in  259  5"",  in  the  Nepalese  text,  before  adlliuta-prdptds. 

'  [So  also  probably  in  the  case  of  the  prakritic,  or  serai-Sanskrit,  forms  avocu  (260  a"), 
upasamhrraminsu  (260  Ifi),  nadinsu  (260  h™)  with  a  single  dot,  for  avoeuh,  &c. ;  but  see  the 
remarks  ou  pp.  159-60. — E.  H.] 

''  The  correct  form  parinirvrte  is  found  in  260  6^'". 

^  Shown  in  italic  type  within  square  brackets,  in  the  transcript  of  the  Nepalese  text. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARIKA  157 

In  spite  of  these  inaccuracies  the  fragment  is  of  the  highest  importance  for  the 
history  of  the  Saddharma-pundarlka.  Even  a  cursory  comparison  with  the  text  of  the 
Nepalese  MSS.  reveals  the  fact  that  there  are  numerous  passages  where  one  or  more 
words  have  been  added  either  in  the  fragment  or  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  The  fragment 
adds  :  253  h^  sa,  253  i'"  a7^^Mard\_m^,  254  i*  ratnam  (in  ekam  maniratnam  instead  of  eho 
manir),  254  b^  Mavira  alia,  259  a"  itai  cavitvd  stn-bJidvaih  vivartayitva,  °nayuta4ata 
(between  hulclha-koti  and  °sahasrdndm),  259  a*''  pascime  samuccJirai/e,  259  h^"  Bdhnla- 
mdtd,  259  ly  samuukham,  260  «*"• '"'  tathdgate  parini\_r\tfte  ilia  Sake  loka-clMtau,  260  a^ 
mahdsatvdnd\m\,  hodhisatva  maJidsatvds,  260  a™  evam,  sane,  260  h'^  bJiagavantam 
ujpasamh-raminmi,  260  i"  api,  andgate  \lhvani,  260  L™  atlia,  sarve  lodhisatva,  260  ^-''^ 
evam  (in  parasparasy^MivatTi),  asmakam,  360  h^  sarve,  260  li^  sdmagryd,  260  S''"  stJiitvd. 
The  Nepalese  MSS.  add^  :  253  5"  °hita\  253  i"'  a7myd  (or  tayd),  kJialu,  253  b^^  sam", 
sma,  254  tt"  k/mlu,  Sdgara  ^  254  a'''  anekdni  ca  kalpasatdny,  254  ft'''  katamdni  jMiica, 
254  V^  kJialu,  254  i"  Sdgara" ,  254  i*"  .sa,  259  a"  prativedaydmi  te  I  foara  a;jf,  259  a'" 
satkuraih  gurukdram  ndnandm  pujandm  arcandm  apacdyandm  krtvd,  259  U  arhatah 
samyak-saihljiiddhasya,  Gautami^  260  a™-  pa^cime  samaye,  260  «'''  tv,  iti,  260  a''"  makd- 
sattvdli,  260  ^'''  vayam,  260  i''"  andgate  'dhvani. 

These  divergences  sufficiently  show  that  we  have  to  acknowledge  two  different 
versions  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika,  the  one  represented  by  the  fragment,  the  other 
by  the  Nepalese  MSS.  The  number  of  additions  being  about  the  same  in  either 
of  the  two  versions,  it  cannot  be  said  that  the  one  is  either  an  amplification  or  an 
abridgement  of  the  other  ;  both  must  have  developed  from  a  common  source.  The 
original  certainly  had  one  of  the  readings  preserved  in  the  fragment,  viz.  mani-ratnam 
in  254  i',  which  is  supported  also  by  the  MSS.  BK  of  the  Nejjalese  version,  while 
the  sma  in  253  ¥'',  omitted  in  the  fragment,  probably  was  missing  also  in  the 
original,  as  it  is  omitted  also  in  some  of  the  Nepalese  MSS.  (AW).  As  for  the  rest 
of  the  additional  matter,  it  seems  to  me  impossible  to  decide  whether  it  was  abeady 
contained  in  the  original  or  added  afterwards. 

The  existence  of  two  recensions  is  further  proved  by  occasional  differences  in  the 
order  of  words.  In  254  i'"  the  fragment  reads  bhadamta  Sdriputra  yady  aham,  the 
Nepalese  MSS.  yi5!f/y  aliam  bJiadanta  Sdriputra,  in  259  a'"  the  fragment  amqmrvena 
ca  bodkisatva-carydih,  the  Nepalese  MSS.  bodhisattva-carydm  c-^^dnujiurvena,  in  260  a'" 
the  fragment  joa^^cirae  kdle  .  .  .  samprakdsayiiuin,  the  Nepalese  MSS.  samprakdmyHut'ri 
pascime  kdle,  in  260  6'"  the  fragment  khaht,  te,  the  Nepalese  MSS.  te  khaht,  in  260  5''' 
the  fragment  karisydma  kiilapuirdho,  the  Nepalese  MSS.  kidaputrdh  karisydmo. 

Of  even  greater  importance  are  the  differences  in  Gatha  47  of  chapter  xi 
(253  a"')  and  in  a  prose  passage  in  chapter  xii  (259  5'"-).  In  the  Nepalese  MSS. 
Gatha  47  is  in  the  Tristubh  metre  : 

^  See  footnote  3  on  p.  156. 


158 


MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 


maJitihJiaiIra  praj}'iayd  sura-ndmaim 

asamMyeya  ye  viiMds  tvay^^ddya  I 
sattvd  ami  kasya  cAyam  prabhdvas 

tad  brwki  2Jrsto  nara-deva  tvam  etat  II 

In  the  fragment  only  the  first  portion  of  the  Gatlia  is  preserved,  but  this 
is  sufficient  to  show  that  the  stanza  was  composed  in  the  Anustubh  metre : 

maJidsamudra  ^  maAd^irajfta  mahamra  mahabala  I 
usaihkhyeyd  vimtd  x  xxxx  w— wx  ii 

In  259  i'  *'•  it  is  said  that  the  nuns  Mahaprajapati  and  Yasodhara  were  struck 
with  wonder  and  amazement  when  they  heard  the  Lord's  prophecy  concerning  their 
attaining  supreme  perfect  enlightenment.  What  is  said  conjointly  of  the  two  nuns 
in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  is  narrated  first  of  Mahaprajapati  and  then  repeated  once 
more  with  regard  to  Yasodhara  in  the  fragment.  In  these  cases  it  seems  to  me 
impossible  to  say  what  was  the  original  reading. 

As  was  to  be  expected,  there  are  also  numerous  various  readings.  Only  a  very 
small  portion  of  them  can  be  accounted  for  as  blunders  on  the  part  of  the  copyists. 
Thus  in  the  fragment,  malidsamudra  in  253  a"'  is  certainly  a  mistake  for  mahdbhadra, 
hJiagavann  in  260  i''  for  bhagavdn,  perhaps  also  me  tatra  in  254  a^  for  me  'tra,  which 
suits  the  metre,  and  sarva-duTikha-pramocanam  in  254  d>  for  dhannam  duhkha-pramo- 
catiam.  On  the  other  hand,  satva-vinayah  in  253  a^,  jmnya-gabhlram  in  253  b'^ ,  and  ti 
which  represents  te  (  =  Skt.  fvayd)  in  260  a',  seem  to  be  better  readings  than 
saihvinayah,  piiiiyam  gambMram  and  pi,  found  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.,  and  there  can 
be  no  doubt  that  asmdkam  and  adhyesaty  {adhyesyaty)  in  260  ^"' "  are  the  correct 
readings  instead  of  asmdn  and  adJiyesayaty,  as  they  are  supported  by  some  of  the 
Nepalese  MSS.  themselves  (ABC^'K).  But  in  most  cases  both  readings,  shown  in 
the  subjoined  list,  are  equally  justifiable. 


253  i' 


Fragment. 
antamamh 


253  ^'■'"    yam  ....  ydvii  aambodhim  " 

254  a^     parijiurayate 


Nepalese  MSS. 

antasah  ^ 

i/ath-ecchayd  me  sambodhUi 

paripurayafi 


'  Kead  mahnhhadra. 

^  Antamaiah  agrees  with  Pali  antamaso,  while  ania^ahis  found  also  in  other  Buddhist 
works  in  mixed  dialect. 

'  The  correctness  of  this  reading  is  doubtful,  as  I  am  unable  to  restore  the  missing 
syllables. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDAEIKA 


159 


Feagment. 

Nbi'alese  MSS. 

254 1^- " 

krtsnam    trsdJMsra-wa\lia\isdhas- 

krtsnu:m  trisdhasram  mahdsdJiasrdm 

raiii  lokadhdtuni 

lokadhdtum 

254  ^-^ 

Ihagavato 

lltagavate 

254  S™ 

wa\7ia\rdkinl 

maharddhikl 

254  5^« 

pratigra\7afa\ 

pratigrdJiakah 

259  a' 

pmtivitarkam 

parivitarkam 

259  «", 

260  a''  "kotX 

"kott 

259  a^i 

(leva-manu^ydnCi\^ui\ 

devdndih  ca  manmydndm  ca 

259  i"-  ^ 

dtmano 

svakam 

259  ii^ 

°saJiasrai\h'\  parivrtd 

°  sahasra-parivdrd 

260  «i 

ndijaka 

iidfJia 

260  a" 

°dralohayaii  sma 

°dvalokaydmdsa 

260  a™ 

°dvalokitd 

"dvalokite 

260  i" 

c'mtaya\fii\ty 

ciidaydmdsuh 

260  5^ 

hodhisa\f\tvd 

hdapidrd 

260  ^^' 

"^bldmukhd 

^hJiinmkham 

This  list,  however,  is  not  complete.  There  is  still  another  group  of  various 
readings  which  are  of  peculiar  interest  and,  on  that  account,  require  to  be  treated 
separately.  As  will  appear  from  the  following  list,  there  are  numerous  passages 
where  the  fragment  exhibits  either  pure  Prakrit,  or  bad  Sanskrit  forms  instead  of 
the  correct  Sanskrit  forms  appearing  in  the  Nepalese  MSS. 


Feagjient. 

253  a™  samjdnaiiti 
253  a'''  pariprcchat 

253  i™  etam'^ 

^153J'"  iraddadlidsyati 

253  li^    vamly^-Sikdi'iite 

253  &■"  ,s;;/«ara/?j  (compare  '?'^\  pharati) 


Nepalese  MSS. 

samjdnate  (Pan.  I.  3,  46) 

pariprcckati    sma    {G'  paryaprccTiata,    K 

paryaprcchat) 
evam  (BK  enaili,  W  etdm) 
iraddadhydt    (B    haddhdsyati^    K    ^rad- 

dhadhydi,  C  sraddadJidf) 
°dbh  ivandyoaikdnte 
spJiuraii 


^  The  fragment  reads :  ka  etarii  iraddadlidsyali  yah  iahya  tnuImrtnmAnuUard  smnyah- 
samhodhim  ahhisamhoddhum,  the  Nepalese  JISS.  ka  evam  {enam,  etdm)  iraddadhyad  yad 
anayd  iakyaiii  muhurtena  samyak-samhodhim,  abhisamboddhum.  Etaiii  apparently  is  the 
Prakrit  form  of  the  accusative  of  the  neuter  (=  Skt.  etat),  which,  when  no  longer  understood, 
was  changed  into  evam  (enam,  etdm)  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.,  while  in  the  fragment  it  caused 
yah  to  he  substituted  for  yat,  whereby  the  sentence  became  perfectly  unintelligible. 


160 


MISCELLANEOUS   FEAGMENTS 


Fbagment. 

254  «"'• "  hdaduldte 

254  5"    ksamati 

259  fl'"  sdntike 

259  «"^  anupurvena    (compare   Piili   aMz<- 

puhhcnci)  ca 
259a'''  par'qmrayitviJ 
259  «■'    "rlidn 

259 i"' '  "te/J  sdnt'iMd  {sdntikdt) 
259  S''"  hhj!<ii]mi, 

259  i''"  hhcujavcviiL  ^ 

260  a"    a?;oeM 
260  a"'  utsaJiuiiia 
260  i'    jjranilmayitva 

260  5"-  ■^  sampraliidanatdya 

260  2"'  aniiticintaijU^d 
260  J"'  SKi'iiprakai'iij'jnyi^H 
260  i^'^   karhydma 
260  Z'"'^  kulaimtrdlio 
260  i'^"  nadinsii 


Nepalese  MSS. 

bhagini  (BC'K  kulaputri) 

ksamate 

anlike 

c-^dnupurvem  ^ 

paripurya  [AC^W jiaripurayiivd) 

'rkan 

°io'niikdi 

ahhdsania  (W  °satah,  AB  °«ai!«) 

Ihagavdn 

ucuk 

samutsa/idiiiaha  (BC'K  utsa) 

prandmyodz'  (K  pranamyw') 

mmprakdsanatdyai    (AWK    °iandyeti,    B 

"iandyeti  and  °  Sandy  a,  C^  °  Sandy  ati) 
anuvicintya 
samprakamp  Itdli 
karisydmo 
kulaputrdh 
iiadante  sma  ^ 


Similarly  instead  of  faulty  or  clumsy  constnictions  in  the  fragment  the  correct 
ones  appear  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  In  253  a"'  we  read  in  the  fragment  :  sarve  ca  te 
sarva-dharm\a\7i  i\u\nydn  Hi  sarnjdnanii  ;  the  Nepalese  MSS.  have  correctly  sarva- 
dhartndn.  The  words  sad-hhikswu-galiasrailK]  saparivdrd  in  259  ^"  are  replaced  by 
md-hlnkmni-sahasra-parivdrd  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  In  260  5"  the  fragment  has 
pjarasparasyodivam  uctih,  the  Nepalese  lAE^.  parasparam  ucuk.  In  260  a'"  the  words 
avaivartika-dJiarma-cakrra-pratarfakd  lodhisa\t\tvd  maMsa\t\tvds  stand  quite  uncon- 
nectedly  in  the  fragment,  as  if  added  by  an  afterthought ;  in  the  Nepalese  MSS. 
they  are  incorporated  into  the  period  by  putting  the  first  epithet  into  the  genitive 
and  dropping  bodMsatlvd  niaJidsattvds  altogether.     In  the  same  way  the  words  ayam 

samprakdmnatdya  in  260  ^'■'•'^  are  connected  with  the  preceding  sentence  in 

the  Nepalese  MSS.  by  substituting  ^ar/  for  ayam. 

^  Provided  that  this  is  to  be  dissolved  into  ca  dnupurrena. 

''  This  form  is  found  also  in  the  Mahavastu  and  in  the  fragments  edited  by  Pischel ; 
see  Pischel,  loc.  cit.,  p.  6. 

'  To  these  may  be  added  a  few  forms  which  have  no  equivalents  in  the  Nepalese  MSS., 
but  seem  to  be  foreign  to  the  language  of  that  recension,  viz.  cavitvd  (259  a"),  vivartayitva 
(259  o"),  dbhusi  (259  6'"),  upasamkrraminsu  (260  6*). 


SADDHAEMA-PUNDARIKA  161 

In  my  opinion  there  can  be  no  donbt  that,  as  regards  single  forms,  at  an}' 
rate,  the  fragment  has  preserved  the  older  readings.  There  is  no  reason  conceivable 
why  e.  g.  such  forms  as  alhdsanta,  ucnJi,  saiiiprakamj)ildJi ,  nadante  sma,  should  have 
been  altered  into  bJictsimm,  avocu,  samprakampayim,  and  nadinsv,,  whereas  the  reverse 
is  easily  intelligible  as  an  attempt  at  sanskritizing  the  text.  But  I  am  far  from 
believing  that  the  fragment  exhibits  the  text  in  its  original  state.  There  are 
certain  facts  which  tend  to  show  that  to  a  certain  extent  the  process  of  sanskritiza- 
tion  has  taken  place  also  in  the  fragment.  In  253  a}  we  find  anuUarasya\j'ii\  for 
which  the  Nepalese  MSS.  read  anuttardydm^  and  the  readings  "sum  in  253  «■"', 
°pravartahd  in  260  a'^',  which  must  be  compared  with  sira  and  ° pravartikdndm  in  the 
Nepalese  MSS.,  are  perhaps  to  be  judged  in  the  same  way.^  In  253  a""' it  is  said 
of  the  Buddha  that  during  many  thousands  of  ages  he  never  slackened  in  his  energy  : 
[?«a]  kaddcid  mryniib  sramsitavdn.  For  sramsitavdn  the  Nepalese  MSS.  read  sainintaxan. 
The  correct  reading  undoubtedly  is  sramsitavdn,  but  it  is  difficult  to  understand  how 
this  should  have  been  replaced  by  saihxfitavdn,  unless  we  assume  that  the  original 
reading  was  a  Prakrit  form,  such  as  e.  g.  samsUavd.  This  has  been  correctly 
sanskritized  into  srailisitavdn  in  the  fragment,  whereas  in  the  Nepalese  version  it  was 
wrongly  rendered  by  sitmritiirdn.  The  root  srams  occurs  once  more  in  connexion 
with  mryai'ii  in  254  a^''  na  ca  inrycu'ii  srai'itsayati.  Here  the  Nepalese  MSS.  offer  the 
readings  sathprakdSayati,  praiayati  (y^),janayat'i,  {Q^),  sammayati  (BK),  all  of  which 
are  wrong,  but  the  last-mentioned  one  makes  it  probable  that  the  original  reading 
was  sairisayati,  which  has  been  sanskritized  in  the  fragment  into  sramsayati. 

In  the  Gathas,  where  naturally  it  was  often  impossible  on  account  of  the  metre 
to  replace  the  Prakrit  forms  by  Sanskrit  forms,  the  text  itself  appears  to  have  been 
chaoged  occasionally  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  to  avoid  the  Prakrit  forms.  In  the 
fragment  the  first  Gatha  of  chapter  xii  (239  5''")  begins :  hhayavdm  si  neUdsi  vindyako 
'si,  with  the  second  person  sing,  of  the  present  of  as  preserved  in  its  true  Prakrit 
form  after  bliagavdfii,.  In  the  Nepalese  MSS.  we  read  bhagavdii,  vineUdsi  vindyako  'si. 
Here  si  has  been  altered  into  vi  without  regard  to  the  perfect  tautology  which  arose 
in  this  way. 

From  these  facts  we  may  safely  conclude  that  the  text  of  the  Saddharma- 
pundarlka  to  which  both  the  Central- Asian  and  the  Nepalese  MSS.  go  back,  was 
written  in  a  language  that  had  far  more  prakritisms  than  either  of  the  two  versions. 
I  am  even  inclined  to  believe  that  the  original  was  written  in  a  pure  Prakrit  dialect 
which  was  afterwards  gradually  put  into  Sanskrit.     But  I  admit  that  the  materials 


'  In  259  6^  both  versions  have  anuttaraycmh. 

^  The  form  ^ura,  however,  may  have  been  the  original  ilagadhi  form  which  was 
wrongly  rendered  into  sura  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  (see  the  remarks  below),  and  °pravar- 
tikdnarii  may  be  a  simple  corruption  due  to  the  influence  of  the  preceding  avaivartika". 

678  M 


162  MISCELLANEOUS  FRAGMENTS 

which  are  at  present  at  our  disposal,  are  not  sufficient  to  prove  this  ;  in  fact,  I  do 
not  see  how  it  ever  could  be  proved  definitely  except  by  discovering  that  Prakrit 
version  itself. 

But  apart  from  this  question,  we  can,  with  the  help  of  the  fragment,  determine 
the  Prakrit  dialect  which  must  be  at  the  bottom  of  the  language  of  the  Saddharma- 
pundarlka.  In  260  J}'^  we  find  a  vocative  plur.  kulaputruho.  Vocatives  in  -alio 
from  bases  in  a  are  found  only  in  Magadhi.^  We  may  therefore  assert  that  the 
original  text  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika  was  written,  if  not  in  pure  Magadhi,  in 
a  '  mixed  Sanskrit '  which  was  based  on  that  dialect. 


2.  ANOTHEE  FRAGMENT  OF  THE  SADDHARMA- 

PUNDARlKA 

Hoernle  MSS.,  No.  142,  SB.  12.     (Plate  XVIII,  No.  2,  Reverse.) 

This  fragment,  one  of  the  smaller  of  the  Hoernle  Collection,  is  the  right  side 
of  a  leaf  belonging  to  another  manuscript  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika.  The  pre- 
served portion  of  the  text  is  found  in  the  beginning  of  chapter  xxii. 

The  fragment,  measuring  170  x  132  mm.  (or  6y'o  x  5-|  inches),  is  only  about 
one-third  of  the  whole  leaf,  as  it  contains  on  an  average  eleven  aksaras  in  each 
line,  whereas  about  twenty-four  aksaras  are  missing  in  the  beginning  of  each  line.^ 
There  are  six  lines  on  either  side. 

The  characters  are  of  the  same  type  as  those  of  the  larger  fragment,  Hoernle  MS., 
No.  148,  SA.  22-5.  There  are  only  four  points  of  difference.  First,  the  four  varieties 
of  medial  a  are  reduced  here  to  three,  ma  and  dim,  which  in  the  larger  fragment  are 
combined  with  the  second  form,  here  showing  the  first  form  (obv.  11. 1,  5).  In  rltd  also 
the  first  form  is  employed  (obv.  1.  4).  With  this  exception  the  use  of  the  different 
forms  is  the  same  as  in  the  larger  fragment.  The  third  form  is  found  once  only,  in 
syam  (rev.  1.  4).  Secondly,  of  the  two  forms  of  medial  i,  the  prone  never  occurs, 
but  only  the  erect  (e.g.  mi,  obv.  1.  2).  Thirdly,  the  sign  placed  above  the 
small  letter  to  denote  absence  of  vowel  is  not  a  semicircle,  but  a  dot  with  a  tail 
slanting  down  to  the  right  (obv.  1.  3,  rev.  1.  2).  Fourthly,  the  retention  of  the 
side-stroke  in  conjunct  t  appears  to  be  almost  regular.  There  are  altogether 
seven  cases.      Among  them  there  is  only  one  in  which  the  side-stroke  is  clearly 

'   See  Pisohel,  Grammatik  der  Prakrit-Sprachen,  §  372. 

^  This  estimate  is  based  on  line  4  of  the  obverse  and  11.  5,  6  of  the  reverse,  taking 
into  account  sucli  divergences  from  the  text  of  the  Nepalese  !MSS.  as  appear  absolutely 
■certain. 


SADDHARMA-PUNDARlKA 


163 


omitted,  viz.  in  tta,  in  obv.  1.  3,  °daUam.  In  four  cases  it  is  retained,  viz.  in  tva, 
obv.  1.  2  and  rev.  1.  4,  "satva ;  in  tsa,  rev.  1.  2,  tatsdclhu ;  and  in  tra,  rev.  1.  3,  tati-a. 
The  remaining  two  cases  are  indistinct,  viz.  tva  in  obv.  1.  1  and  rev.  1.  6.  Below 
the  jd  in  obv.  1.  3  and  the  lyd,  in  obv.  1.  5  there  is  a  small  sign,  apparently  added 
afterwards,  which  looks  like  sa,  but  the  meaning  of  which  is  unknown  to  me.  The 
peculiar  sign  of  the  special  Khotanese  r  occurs  thrice  in  the  subscript  position,  in 
obv.  1.  5  prrati,  1.  6  saJiasrrebhih,  and  in  rev.  1.  6  prradaksi,  while  we  have  the 
ordinary  r  in  obv.  1.  2  prii/a,  rev.  1.  1  °srebhis. 

The  text,   with   that  of  the  Nepalese  manuscripts  printed  opposite,  runs  as 
follows : —  ^ 


HOEENLE    MS. 

Obverse. 


TEXT 


|tva  {sama)dhi  lahdhah   viryam 
drdhaiii  hy  ara- 


|samZ;«sumita 
priya- 


sa     Sarvasatva- 


3  Ujanaih  Vimaladattam  etad  avo- 
cat. 


Jagato    'rhan    samyak-saiiibud- 
dhah  tistha- 


Nepalese  MSS. 


[ayam  mama  cankrama  rdja-srestha  yas- 
min  maya  sthi\i\&  samadhi  lab- 
dhah  I  viryam  drdhaiii  ara- 

\J)hitam  mahdvrataih  parity ajitvd  priy am 
dtma-bhdvam^  II 1  II  Atha  khalu  Nak- 
sairarajajsariikusum  \tk\bMjfia'\  sa 
Sarvasattvapriya- 

\jlarsano  bodhisattva  imam  gdthaih 
hhdsitvd'l  tau  sva-mata-pitarav  ^ 
etad  avocat,,  i 

[_ady^dpy  amba  tdta  sa  bhagavdms 
Gandrasuryavimalaprabhdsasrls  tath-'\ 
agato  'rhan  samyak-sariibuddha 
\etarhi\  tistha- 

\ti  dhriyate  ydpayati  dharmam  desayati 
yasya  mayd  bhagavatas  Candrasurya- 
vimalaprabhdsasriyas     tathdgatasya  ^ 

1  v.l 
^  Some 
f)atasya. 


tarn  svam  mdtd-pitaram. 

MSS.     omit     Ca?idra° -iathd- 


'  For  the  text  of  the  Nepalese  MSS.  my  thanks  are  again  due  to  Professor  Kern.  [See 
also  the  Note  on  p.  143.  The  corresponding  text  of  the  Bibliotheca  Buddhica  edition 
is  on  p.  408,  1.  14-p.  409,  1.  12.— R.  H.] 

M  2 


164 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


HoEIiNLE    MS. 


raya  dharanyah  prratilabho 


6  Jnayvita-^ata-saliasrrel)hili 


Eeverse. 

1  Jsrebliis  tasya  bliagavatah  slnti- 

2  (cat,    tat   sadhu    maharaja    ga- 

misya- 

3  Jtatra  gatva  bhuyas  tasya  bha- 

gava- 


4  Jhasatvas  tasyaiii  velayaiii  sap- 

ta-ra- 

5  Ijbhyudgamya    tasya    bhagava- 

tali  saka- 


6  J^aiii  bhagavarhtam  sapta-krtva 
prradaksi- 


Nepalese  MSS. 

pujdm     Icrtvd    sarva-ruta-kausa^j'^- 
dharani  pratilabdh# 
\dyam   ca   Saddharma-pundariko    dhar- 
ma-parydyo    'sUibhir  ffdthd-kotl-'\nSi- 
y  uta-sata -sahasraih 


\kankarais  ca  vivarais  odksobhyais  ca\ 
tasya  bhagavato  'nti- 

\kdc  chruto  "bhut^  i]  tat  sadhv  amba 
tata  gamisya- 

[my  aham  tasya  bhagavato  'ntikaih^ 
tasmim^  ca  gatva  bhuyas  tasya 
bhagava- 

\ta1},  pujdiii  karisydiniti  I  atha  khalu 
Naksatrarujasamkuswiiitabhijfia  sa 
Sarvasativapriyadarsano  bodhisattvo 
iKrtJhasattvas  tasyaiii  velavaih 
[sapta  -  tdla  -  mdtram  vaihdyasam\ 
abhyudgamya  sapta-ra- 

^tnamaye  kutdgdre  paryankam  dbhujya] 
tasya  bbagavatah  saka- 

[sam  upasamkrunta  ^  upasamkramya 
tasya  ^  bhagavatah  pddau  siras-fdbhi- 
vandya  ^]  taiii  bhagavantam  sapta- 
krtvah  pradaksi- 

\nikrtya  yena  hhagavdms  ten-fanjalim 
pranamya  bhagavantam  namaskrtv-f 
dnayd  gathay^fabhistauti  sma  ll] 

^  v.l.  upasamk/vwdd. 

^  Some  MSS.  omit  fas^a. 

"  v.l.  °vaiulili:d. 


SADDHAKMA-PUNDARIKA  165 


TRANSLATION.! 


(Obv.)  '  [This,  O  excellent  king,  is  my  walk]  standing  [in  which]  I  have 
acquired  meditation.  I  have  strenuously  accomplished  an  act  of  heroism,  [a  great 
vow,  by  giving  up  my  own  dear  body].' 

[After  having  spoken  this  stanza],  Naksatrarajasamkusumita,  [the  Bodhisattva] 
Sarvasattvapriyadarsana  spoke  thus  to  the  great  King  Vimaladatta :  '  [Even  now, 
great  king,  the  Lord  Candrasuryavimalaprabhasasri],  the  Tathagata,  the  Arhat, 
the  perfectly  enKghtened  one,  is  living,  [staying,  existing,  by  worshipping  whom] 
I  have  obtained  the  DharanI  Sarvarutakansalya  [and  this  Dharmaparyaya  of  the 

Saddharma-pundarlka,  consisting  of] hundred  thousands  of  myriads  .... 

of  thousands (Rev.)   [of  stanzas,  which  I  have  heard]   from  that  Lord.' 

[Then  the  Bodhisattva  Sarvasattvapriyadarsana]  spoke  [thus]  :  '  Therefore,  great 
king,  I  should  like  to  go  [to  that  Lord,  and]  having  gone  there,  [worship]  that  Lord 
again.^  At  that  instant  [the  Bodhisattva]  Mahasattva  [Sarvasattvapriyadarsana, 
having  sat  down  cross-legged  on  a  tower  consisting]  of  seven  precious  substances, 
rose  [seven  talas  into  the  sky  and  went]  to  the  presence  of  that  Lord.  [Having 
gone  there,  he  bowed  his  head  to  the  feet  of  that  Lord],  circumambulated  that  Lord 
seven  times,  [stretched  his  joined  hands  towards  the  Lord,  and  having  thus  paid  his 
homagCj  praised  him  with  the  following  stanza]. 

NOTES. 

The  differences  between  the  two  texts  are  of  the  same  kind  as  those  existing 
between  the  larger  fragment  and  the  Nepalese  MSS.  Instead  of  the  correct  forms 
'rJimi,  °saJiasraih,  autikdt,  we  find  in  the  fragment  the  incorrect,  but  certainly  more 
original  forms  'rMu  (obv.  1.  4),  ° saJiasrrebhih  (obv.  1.  6,  rev.  1.  1)  and  sdnti\Jcdt\ 
(rev.  1.  1).  Perhaps  also  °krtva  (rev.  1.  6)  for  °krtvah  is  to  be  added  to  these,  but  it 
may  be  merely  a  clerical  error.  On  the  other  hand  drdJiam.  drahhitam  in  the  Gatha 
has  been  changed  into  drdliam  hy  dra[bAi(aih^  in  the  fragment,  as  in  Sanskrit  the 
aausvara  cannot  stand  before  a  vowel,  and  yet  a  long  syllable  was  required  by 
the  metre. 

The  words  [sarva-ntta-Aaiida\lyd?/d  Alidranydli  prratildhlw  (obv.  1.  5)  compared 
with  sarva-ruta-Jcatimlya-dlidranl  pratilabdhd  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  show  that  the 
construction  of  the  sentence  was  different  in  the  fragment. 

A  difference  in  the  order  of  words  occurs  in  11.  4  and  5  of  the  reverse.  Line  4 
ends  saptara,  line  5  begins  bhyudgamya.      The  text  therefore  is  to  be  restored  to 


'  All  words  in  square  brackets  have  been  supplied  from  the  Nepalese  version  or  frc 
the  context. 


166  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

sapta-ra\tnamaye  hutdgare  paryankam  dhlmjya  sapta-tdla-mdtram  vaihdyasam  a\bhjud- 
gamya,  twenty-four  aksaras  being  missing  at  the  beginning  of  line  5,  just  as  twenty- 
five  aksaras  are  missing  at  the  beginning  of  line  6.  In  the  Nepalese  MSS.  the 
two  gerunds  together  with  the  words  dependent  on  them  are  reversed,  but  the 
reading  of  the  fragment  is  undoubtedly  the  correct  one.  Sarvasattvapriyadarsana 
first  sits  down  on  the  tower  and  from  thence  rises  seven  talas  into  the  sky  to  meet 
the  Lord  CandrasiiryavimalaprabhasasrT.  In  the  Nepalese  version  the  story  is  quite 
unintelligible. 

A  rather  indifferent  various  reading  is  tatra  (rev.  1.  3)  for  tasmim§  ca  in  the 
Nepalese  MSS.  Larger  differences  affecting  the  sense  occur  in  rev.  1.  1,  where 
\_mha\srehlii/i  shows  that  the  number  of  Gathas  ascribed  to  the  Saddharma-pundarika 
was  not  the  same  as  in  the  Nepalese  version,  and  in  obv.  1.  3,  rev.  1.  2,  where 
from  the  readings  \rna7idrd'\jdnam  T'imaladattam  and  malidrdja  instead  of  iau 
sva-mdfdpiiarau  and  amha  tdta  it  appears  that  in  the  Central-Asian  version 
Sarvasattvapriyadarsana  addressed  his  speech  not  to  his  parents^  but  to  his  father, 
King  Vimaladatta,  alone. 

Additions  in  the  Nepalese  MSS.  are  etarki  in  obv.  1.  4  and  abhijna  at  the  end 
of  the  name  of  Naksatrarajasamkusumita  in  obv.  1.  2,  both  of  which  are  quite 
superfluous,  although  the  name  ^of  the  Bodhisattva  seems  to  be  used  always  in 
the  longer  form  in  the  Nepalese  version.  In  the  fragment  the  rest  of  an  additional 
sentence  is  found  in  rev.  I.  2,  where  cat  apparently  is  to  be  restored  to  something 
like  atJia  sa  Sarvamttvapriijadarkmo  bodhisattva  etad  avocat.  Othej:  and  considerable 
additions  in  either  version  may  be  inferred  from  the  fact  that  the  number  of  aksaras 
corresponding  to  the  missing  aksaras  of  the  fragment  varies  from  ten  (rev.  1.  3)  to 
forty-nine  (obv.  1.  5)  in  a  line  in  the  Nepalese  MSS. 

This  little  fragment  thus  tends  to  confirm  the  conclusions  we  have  drawn  from 
the  larger  fragment  with  regard  to  the  existence  and  character  of  the  two  versions 
of  the  Saddharma-pundarika,  and  it  would  be  interesting  to  know  in  what  relation 
these  two  versions  stand  to  the  Tibetan  and  the  several  Chinese  translations  of 
the  work. 

3.    A    FEAGMENT    OF    THE    SANSKEIT    CANON    OF    THE 

BUDDHISTS 

Hoernle  MSS.,  No.  142,  SB.  35.     (Plate  XVIII,  No.  3,  Obv.  and  Rev.) 

Tradition  asserts  that  the  Buddhist  school  of  the  Mulasarvastivadins,  who 
traced  their  origin  back  to  Rahula,  the  son  of  the  Master^  used  Sanskrit  as  the 
language  of  their  holy  scriptures.  Until  recently  this  Sanskrit  canon  seemed  to 
have  been  lost,  but  the  archaeological  exploration  of  Central  Asia  so  vigorously 


SANSKRIT   CANON   OF  THE   BUDDHISTS  167 

carried  on  during  recent  years  has  shown  that  fortunately  this  is  not  the  case. 
After  Professor  d'Oldenbourg  had  first  pointed  out,  in  fragments  originating  from 
Kashgar,  single  verses  that  had  their  parallels  in  the  Pali  Suttapitaka/  Pischel, 
in  an  excellent  paper  in  the  Transactions  of  the  Royal  Prussian  Academy,^  was 
able  to  show  that  fragments  of  a  block-print  purchased  by  Professor  Griinwedel  at 
Idykutsari  contained  portions,  both  in  prose  and  in  verse,  of  the  Samyuktagama, 
a  division  of  that  part  of  the  ancient  Sanskrit  canon  which  was  concerned  with 
matters  of  Dharma  and  corresponded  to  the  Suttapitaka  of  the  Vibhajyavadins. 
A  supplement  to  these  discoveries  is  the  fragment  which  I  now  lay  before  the 
public.  It  is  the  Sanskrit  version  of  a  text  which  in  the  Pali  canon  is  found 
in  the  Vinayapifaka,  as  well  as  in  the  Suttapitaka,  and  therefore  in  all  probability 
a  fragment  of  the  Sanskiit  canon. 

The  fragment,  measuring  about  313  x  135  mm.  (or  12|  x  5^  inches),  is  the  left 
side  of  a  single  leaf.^  The  missing  portion  contained  about  sixteen  aksaras  in  each 
line.  Unfortunately  on  the  left  side  also  a  piece  has  been  torn  off,  which  has  caused 
the  loss  of  one  or  two  aksaras  in  the  last  three  lines  of  the  obverse  and  the  first 
four  lines  of  the  reverse.  In  a  few  places,  especially  on  the  reverse,  the  writing 
has  become  indistinct  by  the  rubbing  off  of  the  ink,  but  on  the  whole  the  reading 
presents  no  difficulties.  About  130  mm.  from  the  left  margin  is  the  string-hole, 
surrounded  by  a  circle,  27  mm.  (or  l,^")  in  diameter.  There  are  eight  lines  on 
either  side.  The  number  of  the  folio,  unfortunately,  is  obliterated  on  the  damaged 
left-hand  margin. 

The  characters  are  of  the  same  type  as  those  of  the  preceding  two  fragments  of 
the  Saddharma-pundarlka,  but,  as  may  be  seen  from  Plate  XVIII,  they  are  somewhat 
more  rounded  and  cursive.  There  are  besides  some  special  points  of  difference. 
The  Ilia  here  shows  a  distinct  loop  ;  of  which  there  is  no  trace  in  the  two  fragments 
of  the  Saddharma-pundarlka,  compare  IJia  and  IM  in  Pi.  XVIII,  No.  3  a,  11.  4  and  6, 
with  bliu  and  Ihi  in  No.  1,  1.  6,  and  llio  and  hhi  in  No.  2, 11.  5  and  6.  The  same  loop 
appears,  e.  g.,  also  in  the  variety  of  the  alphabet  used  in  the  block-print  from 
Idykutsari.*  Of  the  four  forms  of  medial  a  appearing  in  the  first  fragment  of  the 
Saddharma-pundarlka,  only  three  are  found  here,  the  second  form  being  absent,  and  their 
distribution  is  quite  regular.    The  first  form  is  employed  in  ca  (obv.  1.  5),  tpd  (rev.  1.  7), 

^  3aiiHCKH  BocToiHaro  OTjSBiema  HMnepaiopcKaro  PyccKaro  ApxeoaorHiecKaro  OCmecTsa 
VIII,  59f. ;  151  f.  As  this  publication  is  not  accessible  to  me,  I  quote  it  from  Pischel's 
paper  mentioned  below. 

-   Sitzungsberichte  der  Kgl.  Preussischen  Akademie  der  Wissensohaften,  1904,  p.  807  ff. 

^  Only  a  portion  of  the  fragment,  being  rather  more  than  the  right  half,  is  shown 
in  Plate  XVIII,  No.  3. 

'  See,  e.g..  I.e.  Plate  VII,  fol.  158^,  11.  1,  2. 


168  MISCELLANEOUS  FEAGMENTS 

tyd  (rev.  1.  4),  tvA,  thd  (obv.  ].  1),  dkd  (rev.  1.  3,  dhi/d,  rev.  1.  6),  nd  (rev.  1.  5),  held 
(obv.  1.  6),  bhd  (obv.  1.  7),  md  (obv.  1.  6),  rd  [rgd  rev.  1.  3,  rmd  obv.  1.  8,  rvd  rev.  1.  4), 
^'a  (obv.  1.  1,  ryd  rev.  1.  6),  and  also  in  initial  a  (obv.  1.  7).  The  third  form 
occurs  in  rjlird  (obv.  1.  1),  yd  (obv.  1.  7),  wt*  (rev.  1.  6),  sd  (obv.  1.  7,  ,sya  obv.  1.  1), 
hvd  (obv.  1.  7).  The  fourth  form  is  found  only  in /a  (rev.  1.  4),  and  ^'?ia  (obv.  1.  5). 
In  addition  to  these  forms  we  find  here  a  new  and  quite  peculiar  one  in  nd  (obv.  1.  4). 
It  consists  in  the  right  wing  of  the  letter  turning  rightward  and  upward  in  a  long 
leftward  sweeping  curve.  The  beginnings  of  this  form  may  be  seen  in  Northern 
Indian  inscriptions  from  the  fifth  century  onward,  especially  in  Mahanaman's 
Bodhgaya  Inscription  of  a.d.  588-9,  1.  3,  nirvana ,  1.  5,  gund°,  1,  7,  mrand°  (see 
Dr.  Fleet's  Gupta  luscrifjlions,  PI.  XLI).^  Medial  i  also  appears  in  all  three  forms 
in  which  it  is  found  in  the  first  fragment  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika.  Thus  the 
erect  form  may  be  seen,  e.g.,  in  di  (obv.  1.  1),  Mi  (obv.  1.  5),  ni  (rev.  1.  3),  did 
(rev.  1.  6).  Of  the  two  prone  forms,  the  rightward  occurs  only  in  U.  (rev.  1.  8), 
while  the  leftward  is  found,  e.g.,  in  stl.  (obv.  1.  2),  ci  (obv.  1.  4),_;T  (obv.  1.  7). 
But  in  set  (rev.  11.  1  and  7)  we  have  both  the  prone  and  erect  forms  ;  so  also 
in  ti  (rev.  11.  1  and  3)  and  vi  (obv.  11.  5  and  6) ;  in  fact  with  ti  and  vi  the  erect 
form  is  more  usual ;  so  that  it  is  quite  clear  that  the  use  of  the  two  forms  depended 
not  on  any  fixed  principle,  but  on  the  momentary  whim  of  the  scribe.^  The  signs 
for  medial  u  and  v,  call  for  no  remarks  with  the  exception  of  the  u  in  Mu  (obv.  1.  1), 
which  is  quite  difierent  from  the  angular  sign  found  in  the  same  aksara  in  the 
fragments  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika.^  Superscript  r  is  alwajs  written  above  the 
line,  except  in  rh  (rev.  1.  3),  where  it  is  added  behind  the  sa  to  avoid  its  running 
into  the  sya  of  the  line  above  ;  a  regular  rsl  is  found  a  little  further  on  in  the 
same  line.*  The  virama  in  t  of  °vepayet  in  obv.  1.  3  (not  seen  in  PI.  XVIII,  No.  3) 
shows  the  same  form  as  in  the  larger  fragment  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika.  The 
sign  for  the  upadhmaniya  occurs  in  °mdnaJj-prati/a°  (rev.  1.  4).  The  dot  serves  as 
a  sign  of  punctuation  (rev.  11.  7,  8) . 

The  Pali  text  corresponding  to  the  fragment  is  found  in  the  Mahavagga  of 
the  Vinayapitaka,   V,   1,    26-7,  and   in   the   Anguttara-nikaya,  VI,   55,   11.     To 

■■  See  also  the  Mandasor  inscription  of  the  time  of  Kumaragupta  I,  ibid.,  Plate  XI,  11. 
3,  4,  Sec,  and  Bilhler,  Indische  Palaeographie,  Plate  IV,  transverse  21,  cols,  xii,  xiv,  xxii. 

^  [The  same  two  forms  are  found  also  in  the  Sanskrit  Vajracchedika  MS.,  and  may 
be  seen  on  PI.  XXI,  No.  1,  1.  5,  the  prone  form  in  the  first,  and  the  erect  form  in  the  second 
of  the  two  ci  in  cit/adluird  cittadhdrd. — K.  H.] 

^  [It  is,  however,  found  not  infrequently  in  the  Sanskrit  Vajracchedika  MS.,  and  may 
be  seen  on  Plate  XXI,  No.  1,  1.  2,  in  ISuhhuta. — R.  H,] 

*  [The  same  peculiar  sideward  position  of  r  is  found  also  in  other  manuscripts  coming 
from  the  Khotanese  area,  in  connexion  with  S  as  well  as  other  consonants ;  see  footnote 
8  on  p.  90,  and  footnote  18  on  p.  183.— E.  H.] 


SANSKRIT  CANON  OF  THE   BUDDHISTS 


169 


facilitate  a  comparison,  the  text  of  tlie  Mahavagga  is  printed  opposite  to  that  of 
the  fragment,  with  the  few  various  readings  of  the  Anguttara-nikaya  added  below. 
Conjectural  restorations  of  lost  portions  of  the  text  are  shown  in  small  italic  type. 


TEXT 


HOERNLE    MS. 

Ohverse. 


Mahavagga. 


1  same   bhumi-bhage    pratisthitah 

ath<:4gacchet  ptirvasya  di^ah 
^iglira  vata-vr(s_il)gr  na  co 
dinath  kampayen  na  samprakampa- 

2  yen  na  sampravepayet^  pascimaya 

disah  sighra  vata-vrstir  na 
c^^mam  \.d^mpayen  na  saihpra- 
kampayen  na  sampra- 

3  vepayed  lattarasya  disah  daksin- 

asya  di^ah  Sighra  vata-vrstir 
na  c^^mam  ka^mpayen  na 
samprakampayen  na  saih- 

4  j9ravepayed   evam  ev«aivam  vi- 

mukta-cittasya  bhadamta  ar- 
hatah  \.&\n-k{sra)^vasya  bhrsam 
caksur-vijiieyd  rupas  ca- 

5  'ks(ii)s&  abhasam  agacchaiiiti   na 

c^^asya  ceto-vimuktiiii  prajna- 
vimuktiiii  [pa)^rydharanti  ^ 
amisrikrtam  eva  tac-ciitaih  bhavati 
vyayaih 

6  cajsamantipa^yati      bhr^arri      c^ 

^iva  ^rotra-vijneyah  sabdah 
srotrasy^^bhasam   a(^a)|ccAa- 

1  The  syllable  ryd  is  doubtful. 


seyyatbapi  bhante  selo  pabbato 
accLiddo  asusiro  ekaghano 

^  puratthimaya  ce  pi  disaya  agac- 
cbeyja  bbusa  vatavuttlii  i  n'eva 
nam  samkampeyya  na  sampa- 
kampe- 

yya  na  sampavedheyya  i  ^  pacchi- 
maya  ce  pi  disaya  -la- 


^  uttarayace  pi  disaya  -1  a-  ^  dakkhin  a- 
ya  ce  pi  disaya  agaccheyya  bbusa 
vatavutthi  i  n'eva  nam  samkam- 
peyyanasampakampeyyana  sam- 
pavedheyya I  evam  eva  kho  bhante 
evarii  [5«/M»;««]vimuttacittassa 
bhikkhuno  bbusa  ce  pi  cakkhu- 
vinneyya  riipa  ca- 
kkhussa  apathaiii  agacchanti  i 
n'ev'assa  cittam  pariyadiyanti  i 
amissikatam  ^  ev'assa  cittam  hoti 
\jMtam  dnejjappattaih]  vaya- 

n  c'assanupassati  ii  bhusa  ce  pi  sota- 
vinneyya  sadda  ghana  vinneyya 


gandha 


■*  Ahg.  inserts  aUa. 
^  Ahar.  amissikatam. 


170 


MISCELLANEOUS   FRAGMENTS 


HOERXLE   MSS. 

nii  bhrsam  c<-Sh,va  ghrdna-vijneyd 
gmidhd  ghrdriasyi^dbhd- 

7  sa|m  agacchamti  bhrsam  c^aiva 

jihva-vijneya  rasa  jihvaya 
abhasam  aa;accha:  >«/?  bhrsam 
c<-aiva  Jcaya-vijneydh  sparsuh  kd- 

8  «/ays?/«abha,sam  agacchamti   bhr- 

sam c  *  aiva  mano  -  vijnaiya  ^ 
dharma  manasa  abhasawi  \^ga- 
cchanti  na  codsya  ceto-vimuktim 
prajnd'vimuktini 

Reverse. 

1  jaarya^ yharariiti  amisrikrtam  eva 
tas-cittaiii  ^  bhavai^  vyayaiii  ca 
samajwtpasyati  taj  ^ 

3  x||/«d-vyaya-dharmam  eva  sa- 
manupasyati  viraga-dharmam 
eva  samanupasyati  ni^  rodham 
eva  samanupasyati  pratinihsarga  ° 

3  m    e^va    samanupasyati     vyay- 

4nudarsi  nirodh-anudarsi  pra- 
tinihsaro--anu(:?rtV-?'S2  ^ 

4  \tra'\syate  aparitasyamanah^  pra- 

tyatmam  eva  nirvati  ksina- 
jatij " 


^  Read  vijneyd. 

^  Read  tac-cittam. 

*  I  am  unable  to  supply  the  missing 
words  at  the  end  of  this  line,  and  at  the 
beginning  of  line  2. 

^  The   gap   is    here    filled    up    con- 


here    filled 
jecturally 

«  See  footnotes  2  and  3,  p.  172. 
^  Read  "trasT/amdnah 


Mahayagga. 


jivhavinneyya   rasa    kayavinneyya 
photthabba 


manovinneyya  dhamma  manassa 
apatham  agacchanti  n'ev'assa 
cittam 


pariyadiyanti  amissikatam "  ev'assa 
cittam  hoti  \thitam  dnejjappattani] 
vayan  c'assanupassatiti  ii 


Ang.  amisslkaiam. 


SANSKEIT  CANON 

HOEENLE     MSS. 

5  s?n4d-bhavam     prajanati  •  idam 
avocad   ayusman  ^rona  idaiii 


OF  THE   BUDDHISTS 

Mahavagga. 


171 


vadig**/va 


6  dhimuJctasya    pravivekam    tath« 

^iva  ca  •  avyavadliy-ddhimuk- 
tasya  trsna-ksaya-rafet^sj/a  ca^ 

7  cetasah  ywatva    ayatan-dtpadam 

tatas    cittaih  vimucyate  •  tato 
vimukta-|  ^ 

8  ya  n#asti  karamyam  na  vTdyate  • 

^ailP    yatha     eka-ghano    va- 


8  See  footnotes  4-6,  p.  172. 

^  Read  sai^o.    See  footnote  2,  p.  151. 


nekkliammaiii  a- 

dhimuttassa  pavivekan  ca  cetaso  i 
avyapajjhadhimuttassa  upada- 
nakkhayassa  ca  ii  tanhakkhaya- 
dhimuttassa  asammohan  ca 

cetaso  I  disva  ay atanuppadam  gamma 
cittam  vimuccati  II  tassa  samma- 
vimuttassa  santacittassa  bhik- 
khuno  II  katassa  patica-* 

yo  n'atthi  kai'aniyan  ca  na  vijjati  ii 
selo  yatha  ekaghano  vatena  na 
samirati  i  evaiii  rupa  rasa  sadda 
gandha  pliassa  ca  kevala  ii  ittha 
dhamma  anittha  cana  pavedhenti 
tadino  i 

■*  Ang.palica. 


TRANSLATION.! 
(Obv.)  [Just  as  if  there  be,  O  Lord,  a  rocky  mountain  without  holes,  not 
perforated,  solid,]  standing  on  even  ground,  and  a  swift  rain-wind  should  come 
from  the  eastern  quarter,  [yet  it  would  not  make  it  quake,  or  shake,]  or  tremble, 
a  swift  rain-wind  (should  come)  from  the  western  quarter,  yet  it  would  not  make 
it  [quake,  or  shake,]  or  tremble,  a  swift  rain-wind  (should  come)  from  the  northern 
quarter,  from  the  southern  quarter,  yet  it  would  not  make  it  [quake,  or  shake,] 
or  tremble  ;  just  so,  O  Lord,  though  [shapes  perceptible  by  the  eye  should  frequently] 
come  within  reach  of  the  eye  of  the  Arhat,  whose  mind  has  thus  become  emanci- 
pated, whose  [passions]  are  extinct,  they  do  not  [change]  the  emancipation  of  his 
mind,  the  emancipation  of  his  intellect ;  [undefiled  is  his  mind,  and]  he  perceives 
[the  passing  away] ;  though  sounds  perceptible  by  the  ear  should  frequently  come 


Passages  restored  on  the  basis  of  the  Pali  text  are  enclosed  in  square  brackets. 


172  MISCELLANEOUS   FKAGMENTS 

within  reach  of  his  ear,  [though  smells  perceptible  by  the  nose  should  frequently] 
come  [within  reach  of  his  nose],  though  tastes  perceptible  by  the  tongue  should 
frequently  come  within  reach  of  his  tongue,  [though  touches  perceptible  by  the 
body  should  frequently]  come  within  reach  [of  his  body],  though  thoughts  per- 
ceptible by  the  intellect  should  frequently  [come]  within  reach  of  his  intellect, 
[they  do  not  change  the  emancipation  of  his  mind,  the  emancipation  of  his  intellect]  ; 

(Rev.)  undefiled  is  his  mind,  and  he  perceives  the  passing  away, ^ ; 

he  perceives  the  condition  of  the  passing  away  of  those  (impressions),  he  perceives 
the  condition  of  absence  of  desire,  [he  perceives  annihilation],  he  perceives  [renuncia- 
tion] ;  perceiving  the  passing  away,  perceiving  annihilation,  perceiving  renunciation, 
[he  is  not  in  fear]  ;  ^  not  being  in  fear,  he  is  individually  extin- 
guished ;  he  recognizes  that  his  rebirth  is  cut  off his  existence ^ 

Thus  spoke  the  venerable  Srona.    Having  thus  spoken,  [he  said  further : 

'  He]  *  who  is  set  upon  [renunciation]  *  and  solitude,  who  is  set  upon  kindness 
and  delights  in  the  roo ting-out  of  thirst, — 

' [who  has  attained  to  the  absence  of  delusions]  ^  from  the  mind, 

he  recognizes  the  source  of  sensations  and  then  his  mind  is  set  free. 

'  Then,  after  [his  mind]  ^  has  been  set  free, there  is  no 

[gathering  up  of  what  is  done]  ;  ^  nothing  to  be  done  remains. 

'As  a  solid  rock  [is  not  shaken]  '  by  the  wind,  [just  so  shapes  and  tastes 
and  sounds  and  smells  and  touches — the  whole  of  them — things  wished  for  and 
unwished,  cannot  make  tremble  such  a  one].' ' 


NOTES. 

There  can  be  no  doubt,  1  think,  that  the  language  of  the  fragment  is  not 
the  so-called  mixed  dialect,  but  Sanskrit.     There  are  indeed  a  few  mistakes,  but 

1  See  footnote  4,  p.  1 70. 

-  As  regards  the  gap  at  the  end  of  rev.  1.  3  and  the  beginning  of  rev.  1.  4,  only  the 
words  pratinihsarg-driudarSi  and  na  paritrasyate  can  be  restored  with  certainty. 

^  The  general  tenor  of  this  passage  may  be  inferred  from  the  corresponding  Pali  passage 
quoted  on  p.  174,  but  the  restoring  of  the  exact  text  is  difficult.  Ksinajdti  would  seem  to 
point  to  a  bahuvrlhi  compound  kslna-joMh.     Smad  in  rev.  1.  5  I  am  unable  to  complete. 

■•  Among  the  syllables  missing  at  the  end  of  rev.  1.  5  the  first  was  tvd  {vaditvd),  the 
last  a  (adhimuhtaaya) ;  the  rest  is  uncertain.  For  the  general  sense  compare  the  passage 
quoted  on  p.  174. 

^  Restore  at  the  end  of  rev.  1.  6  :  trmd-Tcsaya-ratasya  ca.     The  rest  is  quite  uncertain. 

"  The  exact  words  at  the  end  of  rev.  1.  7  cannot  be  restored.  The  ya  at  the  beginning 
of  rev.  I.  8  suggests  ^jain-cryo  or  samcayo. 

'  These  words  rest  entirely  on  the  Pali  text. 


SANSKKIT   CANON   OF  THE   BUDDHISTS  173 

they  are  for  the  most  part  only  due  to  the  scribe.  Thus  maiw-vijhaiyd  (obv.  1.  8) 
stands  for  mmio-vyneya,  ta§-ciltam  (rev.  1.  1)  for  tac-ciUam,  cqmritast/amdiia^  (rev. 
1.  4)  for  ajiaritrasyamdnah,  ya  (rev.  1.  8),  which  seems  to  be  the  rest  of  paricaya 
or  saihcaya,  for  \_parica]yo  or  \saihca\yo,'^  saiPt  (rev.  1.  8)  for  Sailo.  There  occur, 
as  far  as  I  see,  only  two  genuine  irregularities.  In  rev.  1.  5  we  have  vadi,  which 
undoubtedly  is  the  rest  oivaditva,  while  the  correct  form  would  be  uditvd  (Pan.  I,  2,  7). 
In  rev.  1.  4  we  find  twice  Atmanepada  forms  of  tras,  viz.  SjiaritniP^syate  and  aiMnt\j~\a- 
syamdnah,  mentioned  already  above.  According  to  Panini  (I,  3,  78  and  III,  1,  70) 
the  verb  is  conjugated  only  in  Parasmaipada,  but  Atmanepada  forms  are  found  also 
in  the  epic  language.^  In  a  few  cases  the  rules  of  sandhi  are  not  observed.  In 
dyusmdn  Srona  (rev.  1.  5)  the  n  ought  to  have  been  changed  into  ft  before  the  sa, 
but  this  rule  is  often  neglected  in  manuscripts.  Injndtvd  dyatan-oipddam  (rev.  1.  7) 
and  yaihd  eka-ghano  (rev.  1.  8)  the  vowel  combination  has  not  taken  place  on  account 
of  the  metre.  In  pratisthitah  atJid"  (obv.  1.  1),  bhadamta  arhatah  (obv.  1.  4),  "liaraiidi 
amunkrtam  (rev.  1.  1),  \_pcmtra\syate  apari°  (rev.  1.  4),  cetasali  jndtvd  (rev.  1.  7),  the 
suppression  of  the  sandhi,  of  course,  is  perfectly  justified,  as  in  all  these  cases 
the  first  word  is  either  the  concluding  word  of  a  sentence  or  a  verse,  or  a  vocative 
which,  in  the  spoken  language  at  any  rate,  cannot  enter  into  sandhi  with  the 
following  word.    From  the  absence  of  sandhi  between  dlsaJi  and  daksinasyd  in  obv.  1.  3 

we  may  infer  that  the  words  sighrd pravepayet  were  meant  to  be  repeated 

after  disah.  Before  p  the  upadhmaniya  appears  in  aparitrast/amCtnaJi  praty°  (rev. 
1.  4),  but  before  ks  we  find  not  the  jihvamuliya,  but  the  visarga  in  arhatah  kslna 
(obv.  1.  4).3 

From  an  examination  of  the  Idykutsari  fragments  Pischel  had  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  the  Sanskrit  Canon  was  perfectly  independent  from  the  Pali  Canon 
and  composed  in  a  much  more  condensed  language.  In  the  present  fragment 
also  there  is  nothing  to  show  that  the  Sanskrit  text  is  a  translation  from  the  Pali. 
In  this  respect  it  is  remarkable  that  several  times  the  Sanskrit  text  has  not 
the  exact  equivalents  of  words  used  in  the  Pali,  but  different  terms.  Instances 
are  iighrd  (obv.  11.  1,  2,  3)  instead  of  bhusd,  mmpravepayet  (obv.  11.  2,  3,  4)  instead 
oi sampavedheyya,  arhatah  (obv.  1.  4)  instead  oihhikkhuno,  dbhdsam  (obv.  11.  5,  6,  7,  8) 
instead  of  apdthim.  In  the  Gathas  (rev.  11.  6  fi".)  the  divergences  from  the  Pali 
version  are  even  greater.     The  Sanskrit  text  has  tathoaiva  ca  for  ca  cetaso,  trsnd- 

'  It  is  not  impossible  that  the  o-sign  was  originally  written  and  has  only  become 
rubbed  off. 

^  See  the  St.  Petersburg  Dictionary. 

'  This  difference  is  strictly  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  the  iDlionologists  of  the 
Taittirij'a  school  (Taitt.  Pr.  IX,  3  ;  Vyasa^iksa  158),  but  the  scantiness  of  the  materials 
makes  it  impossible  to  decide  whether  it  is  so  by  accident  or  intentionally. 


174  MISCELLANEOUS   PEAGMENTS 

hmya-rata\»ya  cci]  for  upCuldnakkliayassa  ca  or  rather  tanhahhlwyiMlJiimiMasm,  as  the 
two  pdilas  seem  to  ha\'e  changed  their  places  in  the  Sanskrit  version,  jncUvd  for 
disvd,  tatah  for  samvid  and  tassa,  vdyund  for  rdiena.  Bat  it  cannot  be  maintained 
that  the  Sanskrit  text  of  our  fragment  is  shorter  than  the  Pali  text.  The  only 
Pali  words  omitted  ■•  in  the  fragment  are  samma  (obv.  1.  4)  and  fhiiam  dncjjuppatiam 
(obv.  1.  5,  rev.  1. 1).  But  these  omissions  are  more  than  counterbalanced  by  a  number 
of  additions.  The  epithets  of  the  mountain  (obv.  1.  1)  are  here  augmented  by  the 
addition  of  same  Jjhumi-hhdfje pratiMUali,  those  of  the  Arhat  (obv.  1.  4)  by  the  addition 
oi  hnn-d8ra\y'ai<ija'\.  Instead  of  ciLfaiii  pariyddiyanti  we  find  here  ceto-vimuktim  prajful- 
vimukt'u'n  pa[ryd'\haramli  (obv.  1.  5,  rev.  1.  1).  The  largest  addition  is  the  passage 
from  ta  to  rcuW  (rev.  11.  2-5).  There  is  nothing  corresponding  to  it  in  the  Pali 
text,  nor  have  I  found  its  exact  counterpart  anywhere  else  in  the  Canon,  though 
it  contains  nothing  but  familiar  thoughts,  and  single  portions  of  it  are  met  with 
frequently.  With  ryay-umularsi  nirnilh-dnudam  pmtiiuhsarg-dHiida\_m~\  in  rev.  1.  3 
compare,  e.  g.,  Samyutta-nikaj'a  XXXVI,  7,  6.  7.  8.  8,  6  :  aniccdnupassl  viliarati  I 
vaydnupassl  viliarati  I  xlrdijaniipassl  viliarati  \  nirodhdnupassl  viharati  I  patinissag- 
gduvpassl  viliarati  \.     To  the  words:   [jia  p)aritra'\syate  aparit\_r'\asyamdnali  pratydtmam 

eva  nirvdii  kfmaj dti^Jf\ siiidd-lhavampirajdndti  in  rev.  11.  4  and  5  corresponds, 

e.g.,Samyutta-nikayaXXII,53,  11;  54,  18;  55,  30;  XXXV,  90,  11;  193,  11:  na 
paritassati  I  apurHassam  paccaftaniieia  parinihhdyati  I  khindjdti  vusitam  brahmacariyam 
kataih  karamyam  ndparam.  iitliufdydti  pajdndtUi.  And  the  last  phrase :  idam  avocad 
dynsmdn  Srona  idam  vadi^tvd'^  ....  is  well  known  from  the  Piili  Canon,  where  it 
forms  the  transition  from  the  jirose  to  the  Gathas  just  as  in  our  passage ;  compare, 
e.g.,  Majjhima-nikaya  82:  idam  avoc'  dyasmd  RattJi.apdlo  I  idam  vatvd  athdparam  etad 
avoca,  and  Digha-nikaya  XVI,  3,  51 ;  XVII,  2,  17  ;  &c. 

As  the  leaf  itself  bears  no  mark  indicating  its  origin,  and  as  the  corresponding 
Pali  text  is  practically  identical  in  the  Vinaj^a-pitaka  and  the  Angnttava-nikaya, 
it  is  at  present  impossible  to  decide  whether  the  fragment  belongs  to  the  Vinaya  or 
to  the  Ek6ttav%ama  of  the  Sanskrit  Canon.  And  even  a  third  possibility  must  be 
taken  into  consideration.  It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  later  Buddhist  Sanskrit 
works  have  frequently  taken  over  long  passages  from  the  older  canonical  scriptures. 
I  need  refer  only  to  the  Divyavadana,  where  we  find  many  quotations  from  the 
Canon,  especially  from  the  Vinaya,  embodied  in  the  legends.  It  is  therefore 
a  priori  not  impossible  that  oar  leaf  belonged  to  a  later  work,  in  which  the 
passage  preserved  to  us  was  only  a  quotation.  However,  there  is  nothing  to 
prove  this  hypothesis ;  and  even  if  it  should  be  correct,  this  would  detract  but 
little  from  the  value  of  the  fragment,  as,  considering  the  archaic  style  and  the 

'  Shown  in  small  italics  within  square  brackets  in  the  transcript. 


SANSKRIT  CANON   OF  THE   BUDDHISTS  176 

close  agreement  with  the  Pali  text,  we  might  rest  assured,  I  think,  that  the  passage 
was  taken  literally  from  the  Canon.  Perhaps  a  comparison  with  the  corresponding 
passages  in  the  Chinese  and  Tibetan  Canons  will  enable  us  to  assign  a  definite 
place  to  this  fragment,  which  testifies  again  to  the  original  unity  of  the  Buddhist 
doctrine  in  spirit  and  letter  in  the  North  as  well  as  in  the  South. ^ 

*  This  question  has  been  treated  at  length  and  with  thoroughly  convincing  results  by 
Professor  Oldenberg  in  ZDMG.,  vol.  lii,  pp.  613  ff. 


ADDITIONAL  NOTE  TO  P.  144. 

[Among  the  Stein  MSS.,  recovered  by  him  from  the  old  Buddhist  site  at  Farhad  Beg 
(about  eight  miles  north  of  Khadalik,  Anc.  Khot,  II,  413-14  ;  also  ante,  p.  2),  there  is 
a  rather  extensive  fragment  of  a  pothi  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika,  consisting  of  thirty- 
four  folios,  a  specimen  of  which  has  been  published  by  Prof,  de  la  Vallee  Poussin  in  the 
Journal  RAS.,  1911,  pp.  1069-77.  This  specimen  comprises  the  ending  of  the  eleventh 
(fols.  7&™-10a'"),  and  the  beginning  and  ending  of  the  twelfth  chapter  (fols.  10  a'"- 
ll6™iand  fols.  13  6*4-14  6'^),  corresponding  to  the  Kern  edition,  pp.  250'^-256'fi;  also 
pp.  267i-269iii  and  pp.  271"-274xi.  The  middle  portion  of  the  twelfth  chapter  which 
is  contained  in  fols.  12  aii-13  avi",  and  which  corresponds  to  the  text  of  fols.  259  and  260, 
on  pp.  149-52  of  the  present  volume,  is  omitted  in  Prof  de  la  Vallee  Poussin's  publication. 
A  collation  of  this  portion,  made  by  me  (August  1915),  shows  that  the  text  of  the  Stein 
MS.  completely  agrees  with  the  text  edited  by  Professor  Luders,  the  agreement  including 
even  the  curious  reading  kulaputrdho  in  fol.  260  6*^  (Stein  MS.  fob  13a"^).  There  are 
only  two  small  differences  :  for  prativitarkam  259  a}  the  Stein  MS.  has  parivitarlcam, 
fob  12  aP^,  asiA.  iar  strihhdvam  259  aii  it  has  str'ibhdve,  fol.  12  a'"^.  Moreover  before  itas 
cavitvd  259a"  the  Stein  MS.  inserts  prativedha  \_sic]  ydmi  •  tvam  api  Yasodhare,  fol.  12a^'^; 
heiove  pratilabdhdndm  260  ci^  itinserts  dhdrani,  fol.  13«i;  and  after  te  2605^  it  omits 
sarve,  fol.  13  a'^. 

As  regards  the  first  excerpt,  in  fols.  253  and  254  on  pp.  144-49  of  the  present  volume, 
printed  in  the  Kern  ed.,  pp.  261^'^-265"i,  its  equivalent  is  entirely  missing  in  the  Stein 
MS.  In  fact,  the  whole  of  the  text,  printed  in  the  Kern  ed.  on  pp.  256^"-266i",  is  missing 
in  that  MS.,  apparently  due  to  some  inadvertence  by  its  scribe.— R.H.] 


VAJRACCHEDIKA 

IN  THE   ORIGINAL   SANSKRIT 

Stein  MS.,  No.  D.  III.  13  5.     (Plate  XXI,  No.   1,  Fol.   14,  Rev.) 
Edited  by  F.  E.  Pargiter. 

This  is  a  fresh  manuscript  of  the  Vajracchedika.  The  text  of  that  work  was 
published  by  Max  Miiller,  from  manuscripts  discovered  in  Japan,  in  the  Anecdota 
Oxoniensia  (Aryan  Series),  vol.  i,  part  i,  in  1881.  The  manuscript,  now  published, 
was  discovered  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein  in  his  first  expedition  to  Eastern  Turkestan  in  the 
years  1900-1.  As  related  by  him  in  his  Ancient  Khotan,  vol.  i,  p.  258,  it  was 
dug-  out  on  the  23rd  of  December,  1900,  from  the  ruins  of  a  small  '  dwelling-place ' 
[id.  p.  256)  belonging  to  the  ancient  settlement  of  Dandan  Uiliq  ;  see  also  iiL, 
p.  295,  and  the  same  author's  Sand-buried  Ruins  of  Khotan^  p.  300.  It  was  identified 
by  Dr.  Hoernle  as  containing  the  text  of  the  Vajracchedika  ;  and  a  notice  of  the 
identification  was  published  Ij}-  him  in  the  Journal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for 
1903,  p.  364. 

This  manuscript  is  written  on  nineteen  folios,  long  and  narrow,  of  coarse  country 
paper,  and  each  folio  is  about  39  cm.  (15:|  inches)  in  length  and  75  mm.  {Z^%  inches) 
in  width.  It  is  in  fairly  good  preservation,  except  that  parts  have  perished  or 
decayed.  The  folios  are  numbered  on  the  left  margin  of  the  obverse  side,  and 
are  all  present  except  nos.  1,  3-5,  and  12,  which  are  wanting.  A  few  of  the  folios 
are  nearly  whole  (nos.  11,  17,  and  18),  some  have  lost  one  or  both  ends  (nos.  7,  8, 
and  16),  but  most  have  perished  more  or  less  within  the  page,  and  present  gaps 
severing  the  papier  in  two,  partially  or  completely  (nos.  2,  6,  9,  10,  13-15,  and  19). 
In  the  transcript  these  gaps  are  enclosed  within  the  mark  J.  Where  the  paper 
has  not  perished,  the  writing  has  sufliered  injury  in  many  places,  so  as  to  show 
every  stage  of  decay  from  merely  slight  defacement  to  total  obliteration.  The 
folios  which  have  suffered  least  are  nos.  17  and  18,  which  are  reproduced  in 
Plate  CVIII  in  vol.  ii  of  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ancient  Khotan,  while  for  the  present 
volume  fol.  14  h  (shown  in  Plate  XXI)  has  been  selected,  in  order  to  give  an  idea 
of  the  more  common  condition  of  the  leaves  of  the  manuscript. 

Each  page  contains  six  lines  of  writing.  The  margin  on  the  left  side  is 
generally  about  10  mm.  (|  inch)  broad,  and  on  the  right  side  about  7  mm.  (|:  inch). 


VAJEACCHEDIKl  IN  THE  OEIGINAL  SANSKRIT     177 

•The  writing  thus  occupies  a  length  of  about  37  cm.  (14^  inches).  In  every  third 
and  fourth  line  on  each  page,  at  about  11  mm.  (3  inches)  from  the  left  margin 
of  the  writing,  a  blank  space  has  been  left  about  2  cm.  (|  inch)  long,  so  as  to 
make  altogether  an  open  place  of  that  length  and  of  about  the  same  height,  for 
the  hole  through  w  hich  the  string  would  pass  which  would  hold  the  folios  together. 
This  open  space  is  of  very  great  help  in  determining  the  position  of  the  writing  that 
remains  in  folios  in  which  both  ends  have  perished.  The  letters  have  been  written 
with  a  broad  reed  pen  and  are  large  and  well  made.  The  largest  such  as  tlid 
and^a  may  be  13  mm.  (|  inch)  broad,  and  the  smallest  such  as  ra  and  xa  about 
6  mm.  (i  inch)  broad.  The  size  of  ordinary  letters  is  about  8  mm.  (|  inch),  so 
that  on  an  average  three  letters  go  to  every  25  mm.  (1  inch)  of  space. 

It  is  thus  possible  to  calculate  the  number  of  letters  that  have  been  obliterated 
in  a  decayed  passage  by  carefully  measuring  its  length,  and  to  restore  the  text  in 
most  places  with  the  aid  of  the  printed  text  with  some  degree  of  confidence.  In  all 
such  cases  the  restored  text  is  printed  in  italics.  These  eases  are  of  two  kinds,  those 
in  which  the  writing  only  has  suffered  damage,  and  those  in  which  the  paper  and 
writing  have  both  perished.  Passages  of  the  first  kind  are  dealt  with  according  to 
the  degree  of  obliteration,  thus  :  first,  where  the  letters  are  but  slightly  defaced  and 
can  be  read,  italics  are  used  ;  secondly,  where  the  traces  remaining  of  the  letters 
enable  one  to  make  out  what  they  were  with  the  aid  of  the  printed  text,  the  italics 
are  enclosed  within  round  brackets ;  and  thirdly,  where  the  letters  have  disappeared 
completely,  if  their  number  tallies  with  that  in  the  printed  text,  the  italics  are 
enclosed  within  square  brackets ;  but,  if  the  two  do  not  tally,  the  number  of  lost  letters 
is  indicated  by  an  equal  number  of  crosses.  Passages  of  the  second  kind,  where  both 
paper  and  writing  have  perished,  are  enclosed  within  the  mark  ^,  and,  if  the  gap  can 
be  definitely  filled  up  from  the  printed  text,  the  restored  text  is  printed  in  small 
italics  ;  but  if  the  gap  and  the  printed  text  do  not  tally,  the  number  of  lost  letters 
is  indicated  by  an  equal  number  of  small  crosses.  The  printed  text  has  been  an 
invaluable  aid  throughout,  and  without  it  very  little  could  have  been  done  towards 
reading  the  many  passages  where  the  MS.  has  suffered  injury. 

The  MS.  has  been  well  written  and  contains  very  few  errors  that  are  merely 
clerical,  but  its  language  is  Sanskrit  of  poor  literary  quality  and  abounds  with 
irregularities  and  peculiarities  of  all  kinds  in  both  grammar  and  sandhi  and  even  in 
the  forms  of  words,  that  indicate  a  strong  Prakrit  or  vernacular  element  and 
influence.  These  will  be  obvious  on  perusal,  and  it  is  unnecessary  for  me  to 
discuss  them  here.  A  very  few  of  the  most  striking  instances  may  be  just 
mentioned :  pratistJdhifvd  for  pratistJidya  (fol.  .2  If ;  cf.  Pali  patittliaJiitva  in 
Childers'  Pali  Diet.  p.  370 «),  ugraliesyati  for  udgraliesyati  (fol.  11  «,  1.  iv),  viyuhlid 
for  vyuM  (fol.  13  If-  ^')  and  pratyupasthdhe  iov  pratyupatuthat  (fol.  19  a").    Avagraha 


178  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

occurs  often  but  is  never  indicated,  and  is  definitely  suggested  only  where  final" 
all  appears  as  o  before  an  initial  tenuis  or  by  the  appearance  of  the  following 
word  :  it  is  indicated  here  by  an  inverted  apostrophe  '  .  Virama  is  expressed  in  the 
MS.  by  a  circumflex  placed  over  the  letter,  which  is  written  small  and  placed  a  little 
below  the  line  :  it  is  indicated  here  by  the  sign  ^  placed  below  the  letter.  The  only 
mark  of  punctuation  in  the  MS.  is  a  large  dot,  and  it  is  so  rendered  here ;  but 
a  double  dot,  the  usual  sign  of  visarga,  is  used  once  as  a  mark  of  punctuation,  after 
h]idf!i/ale  in  fol.  6  h'' ;  and  perhaps  in  ntih  in  fol.  15  b''^. 

The  date  of  this  MS.  may  be  estimated  approximately  by  means  of  the 
copper-plate  which  was  found  inside  the  Nirvana  stupa  at  Kasia  and  which  I  have 
deciphered  at  Dr.  Hoernle's  request.^  That  plate  may  be  assigned  to  the  third 
quarter  of  the  fifth  century  a.d.  because  of  the  coins  found  with  it.  The  writing 
in  this  MS.  is  very  much  like  that  on  the  plate,  though  the  characters  here  are 
more  squat  and  wider.  The  letters  here  are  written  with  rather  more  flourish  and 
present  a  greater  variety  of  form,  thus  the  vowel-marks  for  a,  i  and  u  are  made  in 
three,  and  those  for  e  and  ai  in  two  ways ;  also  the  vowel  o  in  hodJd  has  two  shapes. 
Two  of  the  three  forms  for  a  may  be  seen  in  ydvata,  in  fol.  14^'''  (reproduced  on 
Plate  XXI,  No.  1),  and  the  third  in  mahdsdJiasre,  in  fol.  18  a^  (Anc.  Khot., 
PL  CVIII) ;  the  three  forms  of  i,  distinguished  as  i,  t,  and  I  respectively,  in  citla-clJidrd, 
cilia-dliurd,  fol.  14  l'^,  and  vdUkdh,  fol.  14  h^ ;  and  those  of  u  distinguished  as  u,  ^, 
and  u  respectively,  in  Sublmte  fol.  14  i'"',  Siihhute  fol.  14  i",  paripunuh'it  fol.  17  4"^' 
(Anc.  Khot.,  PL  CVIII).^  The  two  forms  of  e  may  be  seen  in  ucyate  fol.  14  i'^,  and 
just  below  it,  in  ibpalabhyate,  fol.  14  i^^,  those  of  ai  differing  similarly  from  each 
other;  while  those  of  o  will  be  seen  in  the  word  boclhi,  in  fol.  175'''  and  bodki  in 
fol.  17i'''  (Anc.  Khot.,  PI.  CVIII),  being  distinguished  as  6  and  o  respectively. 
Initial  e  also  has  two  quite  different  shapes,  one  of  which  occurs  only  once  cleai'ly, 
in  evam  in  fol.  14^'",  while  the  other  is  of  frequent  occurrence,  as  in  fol.  17<("\ 
18  «■"  5\  Also  the  letters  a,  d,  kh,  bli,  y,  and  I  display  each  at  least  two  slight 
varieties  in  their  forms ;  e.  g.  compare  bh  in  bhavnyat,  in  fol.  17  a'  and  in  fol. 
17  a' ;  and  y,  in  ydva  and  °yena  in  fol.  18  a'K  These  features  suggest  that  this  MS. 
is  somewhat  later  than  the  copper-plate.  Yet  it  cannot  be  much  later,  because 
both  the  shapes  of  ^  (which  is  a  test  letter  as  regards  the  script)  are  of  the  tripartite 
character.  It  seems  therefore  that  this  MS.  may  be  assigned  to  about  the  end  of 
the  fifth  or  the  beginning  of  the  sixth  century  a.d. 

In  its  matter  the  MS.  agrees  of  course  in  the  main  with  the  printed  text,  but 
is  less   full.     Sometimes  there  is  close  agreement,  but  at   other  times   it  varies 


'  See  JRAS.,  1912,  pp.  123,  125.    It  is  published  in  the  Annual  Report,  Arch.  Survey 
of  India,  1910-11,  pp.  73  ff.  '  [See  Note,  on  p.  195.— E.H.] 


IN   THE   OEIGINAL   SANSKRIT  179 

considerably,  omitting  sentences,  or  abbreviating  them  by  the  reduction  of  several 
cumulative  expressions  to  one  or  two  only,  as  will  be  seen  from  the  first  sentence. 
In  only  one  or  two  places  does  it  seem  to  contain  additional  matter.  It  would 
have  been  waste  of  labour  and  space  to  point  out  all  the  differences  or  even  many  of 
them,  and  only  passages  where  there  are  large  variations  have  been  noticed  in  the 
footnotes. 

For  convenient  use  each  page  is  printed  as  one  paragraph,  numbered  with  the 
number  of  the  folio  and  the  addition  of  a  for  the  obverse  and  h  for  the  reverse  ;  and 
the  beginning  of  each  line  in  the  page  has  been  marked  by  a  small  roman  numeral. 

No  translation  is  necessary  here  because  there  exists  a  translation  of  the 
Vajracchedika  prepared  l)y  Max  Miiller,  in  the  Sacred  Books  of  the  East,  vol.  xlix, 
Part  II,  pp.  109  flF.i 

TEXT 

(2a)  itad  ^  avocat^  Ascai'yam  Bhagava  ya['va]d  [e]va  {Tathd)gate- 
{na  bo)clhisatvd  anuparigrhltdh  ]jaramen^^^dnugrahena  *  Jrftwat^  eva 
Tathdgatena  6oJ"dliisatva  parinditah  parama^«  ^parinda^{iinyd*  Tat 
Icathaiii  Bliaga)vsjh  bodhisafea-yana-samprasthitena  sthatavyam  katharii 
cittarh  prsi^grahetavyam  ^  Sddhu  sa"idhu  Bhagava/  Subliute  anupa^CJ 
rigrhUds  Jathagatena  bodhisatvah  j9aramen'*«4nvigrahena  •  parindi- 
tas  Tathdgate{7ta  hodhisayHysih  paramaya  parindanaJO^||(2/a*  •  Tenet) 
hi  Subhute  arnu  Sadhu  ca  susthu  ca  maiiasi  kuru  Bhasisye  •  Yatha 
(6of//iisa)to(X-2/a«c(.-'^saiiiprasthiteua  sthatavyam  yath(d)  ^Utam  pra</rahefl 
ifavyaiii  ■^  Evam  Bhagavan*  ity  ayusman  Subhutir  Bhagavatali  pra- 
ty&{h'aufity  •  Bhagavdn  avocaix)  '^'ilha  Subhute  bodhi!|s«irewa  cittam  utpa- 


'  There  is  also,  in  the  present  volume,  pp.  276  fif.,  a  translation  from  the 
Khotanese,  prepared  by  Professor  Sten  Konow. 

2  Begins  at  p.  20,  1.  1,  of  the  printed  text.  ^  Not  n. 

*  Much  more  condensed  than  the  printed  text,  cumulative  expressions  being 
reduced  to  a  single  one,  and  several  words  omitted.  The  form  parlgrahetavya  is 
used  here  ;  compare  fol.  18  a'-  ". 

^  Bhagava  is  marked  with  4  dots  above  and  5  beneath.  It  does  not  occur  in 
the  printed  text.  These  dots  apparently  indicate  that  it  is  an  error  here.  Compare 
fol.  7  (Z^,  footnote  7,  p.  182.  [See  p.  397  for  a  similar  practice  in  Khotanese 
writing. — R.  H.] 

^'  The  circlet  indicates  where,  in  the  original  folios,  stood  the  blank  space 
containing  the  string-hole,  and  interrupting  lines  iii  and  iv. 

'  YYo\i2i}sAy  or&\it\^^gyathd praii'pntlavyam  of  the  printed  text.    See  note  4  above. 

*  Read  Bhagacam. 

N  2 


180  VAJEACCHEDIKl 

ffo2/«||tavyam^  Yavamtali  satvali^  andaja  va  •  jarayiy'd  vd  •  sainscedajd,  vd  • 
[u^a])a)du]id  vd  • 

(25)  irapino  ^  va  •  arupirio  ||i;«  •  samjhino  va  •  asaiii^juiiM  va  •  n#aiva 
sariijnanopaka*  va«Yavamtah  satvah  prajnapyam(aiia/i)  ])raJHaiyii(Ante'^  > 
te  onayd  sa^rve  anupadhisese  mvvSuna-clhdtau  fiiparinirvdpai/ita^^jsJa. 
Evam  aparimanam  ca  satvam  parinirvapayitva  na  kasciif  satvah 
pari»/r?'«j:iito  i"bhavati  •  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Satva->  jO^ftwfgna  hi  Subhute 
bodhisatvasya  pravarteta  na  so  bodliisatva  iti  vaktavyali  Tat  Icasya 
[het)oh  Na  8uhhW-"^te  bodhisatvo  yasy<;^tma-sailiina''|0||2>)'awtr/e/rt  • 
satva-samjna  va  •  jiva-sarbjna  va  •  j;«f/f/«la-samjna  va«  Api  tu  Subhute 
(5oc?Msfl)!t'e-)i,^(ivas^i«-)"*'jjratipattito  danaiii  datavyam  (na  kvct)]^it  pra^ 
tisthi{tena  dd)nam  ddtav)jam^  Na  saftc/ft-^awf/Afl-rasa-sprastavyesu  prati- 
sthihitva  danam  dia,i?i{y%jam)  ^JEvam  hi  BubhnteQ  '^i(6o)dhisa^«ena  danam 
datavyam^  ya[^A]ri  {na  nimitta)-safiijn.dyd  [prati.sf/iihe)  •  T at  kasya  hetoh.  • 
{Yah  Suhhilte)  bodhisatvo  (^pi-atisthi)\  to''  ddnaih  daddti  x 

Folios  Nos.  3-5  ivanting. 

(6a)  ibhasitah^  •  {Tad  ii)ciiaie  A-.s-etra-viyu(5/i)a''  if/  •  {Tasrnd)  f^^Subhiite 
bodhisatven.'i-divam  pra'^itistJikam  cittam  'atpdd^lijitavyaih'^''  Na  sabda-M 
^awd/zrt-^rasa-sjoarsa-pratisthitam  cittam  utpadayita\>yam\  [xxxxxxxx 
xxii  a](fmft)-bhava  sjdt^  tad  yath«£l[p?]  ,iJi«wio|$  >S'?tmeru-parvbata-i"raja  • 
Tat  kin  manyase  SubhuOte  Mahaiii  sa(A  dtma-y^bhdvo  bhavet^^'^^^  \_Tat 
hasya     heto'\r    abhava^^    sas    Taf /( r?j;~-y/f(ie?iff J    bhasi(fas)    ta^'^'t^     ^^cvate 

■"■  The  printed  text  has  bodhimiva-i/dna-samjjradhiteHfaivafii  cittam  ■iitpddayi- 
tavyavi. 

-   i\Ioie  condensed  than  the  printed  text. 

^  Begins  at  p.  20,  1.  18,  of  the  j)rinted  text. 

*  The  printed  text  has  wi-diva  samjnino  n<^dsaiJijfnno. 

"  The  printed  text  has  the  singular. 

°  This  agrees  with  the  note  in  the  printed  text. 

'   That  is  ainatltitldto.  *  Begins  at  p.  27,  1.  3,  of  the  printed  text. 

^    Yyulia  is  written  v'lyvJia  in  fol.  13  U^,  and  vii/iVjJia  in  fol.  13  tf'-  ^' 
1°  Two  sentences  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 

^^  About  ten  letters  are  wanting  here.     The  printed  text  is  longer  and  reads 
Tad  yath-^dpi  ndmn  Subhute  pur aso  bliared  upeta-kdyo  malid-kdyo  yai  tasy-i-diraniriipa. 
1^  Two  sentences  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 
^^  The  first  letter  is  like  ra ;  it  does  not  suggest  d/i/ia.     After  this  is  a  further 
mission. 


IN  THE   OEIGINAL   SANSKRIT  ISl 


'■  ^i 
^ 


(a)tma-bhava  iti  •  O  Na  hi  sa  bhai[vo  n<^dtma-bhavah  ^]  ^Ydvanio  hi 
\_Su']{b}iu)tG  Gamga^/a  |»arf2/a  i^«/i</c||as  tavanto  "^Gaiiiga-nadyo  hhiiveyuh 
Tat  kin  manyase  Subhute  *  Api  \_nu  td  hahvyo  bhaveyuh  Aha  Tajc^eva 
tavn  [Bhaga)^cam  xx°  ^atoyoj  Gam{gci-na)dyo  {bhayheyuh  pra(^  e)va 
tatra  v&\uhdh     A[roco](y«m^   te  Subhute)  [pra]{tivedai/d)[mi  te]  (x><( 

(x''  te  X)  (xxxxxx''|;['ya](Zi(M) 

{6b)  ^x^mdsu  \alukdh  td{vato  loJca-cUuTjtu  ra^  f^Kasci  strl  vd  ||  (puru^f^so 
vd  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxj  XX  '"  "Aha  •  Evaiii  Bhagavam  baliu  t-ah 
kula-puiro  va  k.n\ei-{duhitd  vd)  xxxxxxxxxxxx  (xxxxxxxxiiJ[>Su](5M-) 
"ite  tavata  loka-dhaturii  saptaO-ratna-pari]3u?-w«TO  [_dd']{7iam  cla)\_dydd 
yals  ca  [xxx^^  hula-putro']  vd  Jada-du^ihitd  vd  xxxj  catuspa^'^c^am  api 
(^atliam  udgrliya  paraOsya  de^ayejf  xxxxxxxxxxi3||  [_hi,'jla-putrena  kula- 
du^hitrnd  ^^J  vd  hshxitaram  '^punya-skaBdham  prasaveta  •  Api  tu  Subhute 
ya(sm2)Jre  prthivl-pradese  dharma-parydyd  ^^^  cdtuspsidd^^"j)i ''■'^  gdthdm 
bh&sydte  Z  tena  sah  '^iprthivi-pradesah  caitya-bhuto  bhavisi/ati  •  (sa)  xxx 
XXX  vd  X  (xxj  xxx  "  (pa)  ya  xx  {ija)  |xx|  (!/a)Jmaw^  dharma- 


1  After  ll/d  a  small  letter,  apparently  ta,   appears  which  has  a  line  through 
it,  as  if  it  were  a  mistake  and  were  strvick  out. 

2  Three  sentences  of  the  printed  text  are  wanting-  here. 

'■'  Read  probably  ydvanto  hi,  to  correspond  to  tavanto  which  follows. 
*  This  sentence  occurs  a  little  earlier  in  the  printed  text. 
®  These  two  letters  are  more  than  the  printed  text  has.     Read  perhaps  yatra. 
"  This  letter  looks  like  m,  so  far  as  one  can  see  from  the  traces  of  it. 
"'   For  all  this  breakage  the  printed  text  reads  ydvatyas  tdsu  Gaihgd-nadisu,  but 
the  reading  here  seems  to  be  different. 

8  Begins  at  p.  27,  1.  20,  of  the  printed  text.     This  letter  may  be  sa. 
"  This  letter  seems  quite  clear,  though  it  does  not  appear  to  make  sense. 
^^  Some  22  or  23  letters  have  been  obliterated  here,  but  the  printed  text  is 
much  longer. 

11  There    are    some   20   aksaras  wanting ;    they  may  perhaps    be   taio  imnya- 
iJiaudJiam  prasaveta  BJiagavdn  aha  Tas  ca  ho  puuah.     Compare  fol.  7  S^  and  10  a"'. 
1^   Read  perhaps  ho  punak,  or  Sulhute. 
1^  Read  perhaps  samprakasayet^ .  ayam  eva. 

1*  There  are  two  letters  broken  away  here,  and  they  must  be  composed  of  the 
instrumental  case  of  duhitr.     Its  instrumental  form  here  would  seem  to  be  dnhitrnd, 
compare  plirud  in  fol.  19  i\     This  form  fills  the  gap  exactly. 
15  Compare  fol.  7  ^". 

1°  The  aksara  ma  had  been  omitted,  and  has  been  inserted  interlinearly  above  dd. 
1'  In  the  tirst  part  of  this  gaj)  read  perhaps  dev-dsurasya  lokasya. 


182  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

(7a)  l5';jBr?/«?/«m^  dharayisyanti'^  Pa^aviena^  te  satv^^a^car^/ena  saman- 

i 


a  X 


vagata  bhavisjanti  •  [Tcismim ])rthivi-pradese\  ^dsta  viharaty  anyatar 
'^hiyataro  va  viji'ia-ijuru^  ys/Z^aniyah  Athokjusvawx  Subhutir  Bhagavantam 
etad  avoca^y  Ko  nclm-fdMyaih  Bhagavam  dharma-parydyah  f}i^"Katham  c-^ainaiii 
dhdraydimt^O  Evam  ukte  Bhagavan  ayusmantam  Subliutim  etad  avocat^ 
Prajna-paramita  namodyam  Su^'^bhute  dharma-parydyah  i?|^Ovam  c# 
aXnavi  l-dvaam  dharayata  •  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Ya  c^Syam  prajna-paramita 
Tathdga.teua  (hha)  ^"^sitd  sd  paramitd  ^  Tat  h^  h[e]t6"''  n  manyase  Subhtite 
ilpi  nu  kasci  dbarmas  Tathagatena  hhdsitah  Aha  •  No  iti  Bhaga"^i2va7«  »« 
kasci  dharmas  Tathagatena^  hhdsitah^  Ydvat  '$^Subhute  tr^s'^fihasva-maha,- 
sahasre  loka-dhatau  prthi{v)i-rsijah  kincitx^ 

(7J)  i||/'af/^"  hahu  hhavet^  Aha  Baku  Bha^^gava in  jprthivi-ia^o  hha[vct^yat 
tad  Bha^gavam  prthivl-ra^as  Taihdgate{na  hlij^^dsitam  •  a-ra^{jas  tad 
BJuigavam)  ^^t^bhdsitaih  •  Tad  ucyate  prthi^Yi-xa^a  iti  •  Yo  so  loka-dhatuh 
a-dhatu  sas  Tathagatena  bhasites  Tad  u{cyate  loka-dlidtit)r  iti  •  Ta- 
'ii|^<  kin  manyase  Subhute  Jpi^Onu  dvatrin^ar "  mahapurusa-laksanais 
Tathagato  'rharfi  samyak-sambuddho  [drastavyah)  A  {ha  •  No)  iti  Bha- 
^^^ijavaiu'^'^  •  Tat  kasya  hetoh  r«fti||Otani  dvatriiiisa-mahapurusa-laksanani 
Tatha^ffl^eHft  bhasitany  alaksa('n,a)m  [tdni)  Tathd(gatena)  ^'l  ibhdsitdni 
XXX 13  f/ya||trim^a-mahapu(rMsa)-laksanan4ti  •  Yas  ca  ho  puna/i  Subhute 
stri  vd  iniTuso  va  {Gamgd-nadi-vdlikd-)l^xx  ^*  '^i  xxxxxxxx  is  ^«||  i^ritya)- 

1  Begins  at  p.  28,  1.  13,  of  the  printed  text. 

2  Dharaywyanti  or  vdcayisyauti  ox  jMryavdpsyaidi  would  fit  this  gap. 

3  Not  n  apparently.  *  Compare  fol.  8  «'". 
^  This  is  the  reading  in  the  printed  text  and  fits  this  gap. 

^  Or  perhaps  s-'^awa  tjhdsitd. 

''  There  is  a  enrve  of  three  dots  around  the  top  and  right  side  of  Aeto.    It  seems 
clear  that  the  scribe  first  wrote  tat  kasya  heto,  but  discovering  his  mistake  enclosed 
lielo  with  the  dots  and  then  wrote  n  manyase ;  and  this  implies  that  he  must  have 
altered  tat  kasya  to  tat  hi.     Dots  around  a  word  therefore  indicate  a  mistake. 
*  Two  sentences  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 
°  Compare  fol.  16  5',  and  fol.  18ff\ 
1"  Begins  at  p.  29,  1.  7,  of  the  printed  text. 
11  Read  perhaps  °trinSair  ;  but  cf.  satdnir  in  fol.  9  a". 
1^  A  sentence  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 
1'  Tad  Kcyafe  is  too  much  for  this  space  apparently. 
1*  Read  probably  saiud,  n  being  in  the  next  line. 
IS  Read  probably  n<-dtmahhdvd)t  dine  dine. 


IN  THE  OEIGINAL  SANSKRIT  188 

je\t^  •  ]  1  Ya^  c^Sto  dharma-paryaya^  catuspadikam  ayi  y-gdthum  udgrhija 

parasya  ^  desayet^  •  Ayam  eva  *  te-lv^ 

(8a)  'yio°  bahutarath  punya-skandham  prasave^io,  zith^dyusmSiih  Su- 
bhuti  dJiarma^egen^diriP^S^l pratTvwhcats,  So  'srunipramrjya  Bhagavantam  etad 
a^^vocat^  •  Aicaryam  Bhagavaiu  ^^(j)a)ram-d{icaryam  Sugata)  ydvad  ayam 
Tathagatena  dhanna-\)a,{rydyo  bhds()$^ah ''  Yato  meh^{jndna'm  ut])annam 
na  maf^^^u  eva7h-rupo  dharma-paliOrydyah  sritta-purvali  Paramena^te 
satv-ascaryena  samanvagata  hhavisya^iti  •  ye  (*)[^a]  (sntre)  ^^'^bhdsyamdne  ^ 
bhfda-saihjnd^Om.  utpadayisyanti  •  Y#aisf7  Bhagavam  bh€ita-sarhjna  s^^aiv^ 
S,sarhjna  Tasma  Tathagato  hhd(sate  EhfUa^^^amjfid  bhuta-samjnd  Hi  i\"a|| 
7nams,  Bhagavam  duskararii  yad  aham  ^mam  dharma-parya^am  hhasya- 
ra.ana7h^  mi  avakalpat/am?/  a[ty '^°a)dhimiicydm^  ^'^^Ye  pi  xxxxxxxx^'J 
XXX  ^^  2)a7hcasa{tydm'^^'  imam  dharma-^arydyam  a)vakei\2}ayisycmtl^*  • 
n[dJi)i  xxi  X  Jxxx||(re)wa^^ 

(8i)  i||" xxxxxxxxxxj  nt{i) "  T(e)  ( j3a)ram-ascarya-samanva(c/aia Iha- 
visyanti) » Api  tu  ho  fimah  [Sid)hu)\te  na  iesdm  d'\W^tma-sam'^j:jnd2:)rava{rti) 
^^^syati  •  Na  satva-samjhd  na  jivaf^^-samiua  pravartisyati  na^*  \jndgala-samJ7id 


1  A  sentence  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 

^  For  iMrydyac,  final  consonants  being  often  omitted  here. 

2  Compare  fol.  10  h\ 

*  Read  probably  prakdmyet^  or  Ayam  eva. 

^  Begins  at  p.  30,  1.  2,  of  the  printed  text. 

"  All  this  long  double  gap  is  exactly  filled  by  what  is  in  the  printed  text. 
''  Two  clauses  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this.  "  Not  n. 

°  The  printed  text  hhdsyamdne  irutvd  is  a  little  too  long  for  this  space.   Probably 
omit  srutvd,  compare  fol.  8  b'^' ;  and  read  hhasyamdoie. 

^^  Ydmy  a  is  clear  and  also  -dhi,  but  the  letter  between  them  is  far  from  clear. 
It  appears  to  be  a  preposition  containing  a  small  consonant,  prefixed  to  adhi,  such 
as  ati,  anil  or  perhaps  ahJii. 

11  The  printed  text  is  far  longer  than  this  space. 

1^  What  remains  of  these  three  letters  looks  like  mindyd,  but  might  possibly  be 
\ria\scimdyd.  ^^  All  this  is  more  condensed  than  the  printed  text. 

i*  This  varies  from  the  printed  text. 

15  Read  probably  adhimucyisya7iii  vistarena  ;  this  agrees  with  the  traces  that 
remain  of  the  first  four  letters.     Pali  has  the  future  form  muccissati. 

"  Begins  at  p.  30,  1.  17,  of  the  printed  text. 

"  Read  perhaps  ca  parasya  samprakdmyisyanti ;  compare  fol.  \Qb\ 

1^  [The  superscript  ri  of  "rti"  has  a  peculiar  sideward  position,  apparently  to  avoid 
collision  with  sya  of  bhavisyati  in  the  line  above.    See  footnote  4,  p.  168. — R.  H.] 


184  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

-pra.va.rtis i/ati'^  •  Tat  kasya  hetoh  {Yd  set  dtmci)-\_sariijhCt]  (s*(MV«(S)samjna 
iii||r«  satva-samjha  yd  jlva-'l&O savijiid  ya  pudgala-samjna  •  s^aiv^asaiiajna  • 
Tat  kasya  lietoh  Sarvba-scfm/ri#(2(pa(/aia)  hi  Ba{ddlid  hhagavantah) 
^^^Evam  ukte  Bhagavan  «7/i<|;  O  smantaiii  Subhtitim  etad  avocat^  Evam 
etat  Subhute  evam  eta  Subhui'L'  Para))i-dsca{ri/n-samanvdY%  'jatds  te 
xxxxxS  siitrelr':  bhasyamane  *  n<>6trasisjgunti  •  na  sarhtrasisyanti  na  saiii- 
trasam  d^xdsijunti  •  \Ta'\{t  l'asi/(()  hetoh  •  Pararaa-'^%imranuti^eyam  Subhute 
Tathagateiia^s^,  6/iaslta  ^  •  Ya  TsAhiXfjcdena  jjarama-V^  pdramitu  bhdsitd  ^  tarn 
xxxxxxxx  bhdsante '  ^ 

(9a)  '(^4j.j/  ^  tti)  Subh€ite  ya  Tathl^«^«/«.syflf|  hsdnti-pdramitu  s^aiv* 
«jj«rfl,mita  •  {Tat  la)sya  hetolir  ^  Yada  {me  Ka)[llmga-rdjd  aviga^^^ra- 
tyamga-mdmsdny  accAai ^"Jiitsi  •  n«4si  me  tasmiiii  samaye  irMma-  -{samjnd 
vd  safva-jJva-pudg(da-sam)j'nd  vd  •  na  me  kaci  samjna  ni^asaiiijna  babbtiva 
(•  Tajl^t  kasya  hetoh  5«||i"cen  me  Subhute  tasmim  sa{Oi)tai/e)  d{tma- 
sa«;)/H#«W/«OT'syat\Vyapada-samjiiametasmim samaye 'bhavisya(^,^)  [xxxx 
xx"sam]i^jna«pudga]a-samjn^4bhavisyay/\/7aO;  pada-samj»«jyR?/rts;)nm 
samaje  'bhavisyat.^  Abhijanamy  ahaiii  Subhute  atite  ' dlivani  j^ja'm{ca-jdti- 
satdiii)r'^'^  yad^d'^ham  ksanti-vadi  rsir  babhu|  ;i'«  Tatra  me  n^\a{tma-samjnd 
bahhuva  na)  .srttva-samjna  •  na  jiva-saiiijna  •  na  pudgala-samjna  •  Tasmd 
tarhi  Subhute  bodhisa^'tvena  sarvba-sarhjila  vivarjal^i/itv<>dnuttardydm 
saniyak'^^-fl[sam'\{bodhau)  ci{ttcmi  utpdda)yitavyam^  Na  rupa-pratis.i/«iam 
cittam  utpddaydavyam  {Na  m)bd<i-{ga-) 

^  A  sentence  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 

^  These  aksaras  do  not  seem  quite  to  fill  up  the  space,  and  perhaps  ca  should 
be  read  after  the  first  ya. 

^  Read  perhaps  sated  Te  ilia,  see  fol.  8  a'".  *  Not  n. 

^  A  sentence  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  here. 

'^  The  construction  here  differs  from  that  of  the  printed  text. 

'  The  printed  text  aparhndml  api  Buddha  Bhagavanto  hMsante  is  too  long 
for  this  gap.  ^  Begins  at  p.  31,  1.  9,  of  the  printed  text. 

"  The  h  is  a  scribal  blunder :  see  similarly  fol.  13  i,  footnote  9,  p.  188. 
"  The  printed  text  exactly  fits  the  gap. 

^^  The  printed  text  sacet  mttva-samjhd  jivct-  is  too  long  for  this  space.  Perhaps, 
following  the  analogy  of  line  ii  above,  we  might  read  sacet  satva-jlra-  which 
would  suit  the  space. 

1^  These  syllables  would  ordinarily  be  a  little  too  much  for  this  space,  but  might 
suit  it,  if  written  closely  as  many  letters  in  this  line  are  written.  The  r  appears  to 
be  euphonic  between  i  and  the  semi-vowel  y ;  but  cf  °triniar  in  fol.  7  5"'. 


IN  THE  ORIGINAL   SANSKRIT  185 

{9b)  ^{ndha'^-ra)[sa-S2^rastavyay(pratisthi)^^it<i.m  xxxxxx^iiQ{tj)ddayita- 
vyam^)  xxx  {i)ra)[ti]{sthitam)  [na]  {c^.mv<>dpra)t{sthdna7h'^  Tasind[d  eva 
Tathdgato  bhdsat]i  ^  {na)y,y^  "rupa-pratistliitena  boclhisatve=^^^?.a  rfdjia/wj 
{ddfa)vyam^  *  Ajn  iu  Subhute  bodhisatven^aivam  dana-parityagam  pari- 
tyajya  sa{rvha-sa)tvd{nara  arthaya)  "iYa  c^aiva  sa  satva-samjna  s^^v-i-d 
(OJ  {sam)jnd  •  {Yci)  ete  sarvba-satva Tathagatena bhasitas ta ev^asatvah 
{bhilfa-vdcVjl  [SubliTde)  [Taihd'^'^g&td^  satya-vadi  Ta(i!/ia)ta-va*0  T«tha- 
(ga)tQ\y  a-vitatha-vadi  •  Api  tu  Subhute  yatha  Tathagatena  dharmo 
'bliisam\buildho\  {na  ta)fra  [s«]^tyara  na  mrsa  •  Tad  yatha  Subhiite 
jt  ndlial-dra-pravistah  evarii  vastvi-patito  bodhisatvo  vaktavyah  Yo 
vastu-patito  danaiii  pu\rityajatl  Tad  yatha]  ^'\Snbhi~(te)  puruso 
(ca)[A-.s«.sm]am  Jx^  ^:)ra||bhatayam  siirye  'bhyudgate  nana-vividhani  rupani 
pa^ye^^  evavi  bo[dhisatvo]  f^drasfavyo  yo  avastu-^ 

{10a)  ipatito'^  danam  paritya(y"aij)  •  lj^/>i  tu  Su^Xbhilie  ye  te  hida{putrd 
vd  •  A7(.)la-duhitaro  va  •  ima{m  dharma-parya)f^>jam  udgraliesyanti  ^  •  dhdra- 
"nti  -  vacayisyanti  •  {pari/av)^^sya^i^it{)  •  ^fiatas  te  Tai^agatena  • 


^ 


drstds  tc  Tathagatena  •  buddhas  te  Tathaga^e(7ia)  "  r^sarye  te  satvd  aprame- 
yath^g  "ipunya-skaDdhaiii  prasavisyanti  •  JO  ro|j  'yam  ca  ho  jpunah 
Subhute  stri  va  puruso  va  purvahna  ^"-samaye  •  G&mg2i-\_nadi-vdllkd- 
sa?n«ii^^ajHina-bhavam  parityagam  paHOri/j/anje  •  7)i«cZ%dhna-samaye 
sayahna-samaye  •  Gaiiiga-nadi-vahka-samdn  {dtma)bhdvaoh  parity a^gdj&i 
parityajet,^  ^^  Aiiejnaxxxis  fo(|)Zj5a-Z;o[i]{-iato-sfthasram  atm;ibhava-pari- 

1  Begins  at  p.  32,  1.  2,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  All  this  is  very  much  more  condensed  than  the  printed  text,  and  it  is  not 
easy  to  fill  in  the  blanks  with  any  certainty. 

^  Bhds  is  used  here    in    the    parasmaipada,  see  fol.  13a'',  and   apparently  in 
foil.  \lh^,\Zi",  and  18  5i«. 

*  More  condensed  than  the  printed  text. 

^  These  letters  may  he  a  mistake  for  tatJid-rddi,  as  the  printed  text  has. 

"  There  appears  to  be  room  here  requiring  another  aksara. 

''  Begins  at  p.  32,  1.  19,  of  the  printed  text. 

8  This  is  the  probable  form  here,  see  foil.  10  ^i"',  11  a",  and  11  ^"'. 

^  More  condensed  than  the  printed  text.  ^^  Not  n. 

^1  See  the  next  line  where  this  expression  occurs  again.     These  two  passages 
supplement  each  other  clearly. 

12  Much  more  condensed  than  the  printed  text. 

1^  The  printed  text  parydyena  hahwii  is  longer  than  suits  this  gap,  and  here 
the  construction  is  in  the  singular  and  not  the  plural. 


186  VAJEACCHEDIKl 

tyaga;;;.  par/tyojef^  Yaa  c^emaiii  dha[rma-paryuyaia  s'rutvd  na  pra-) 
'^H\ks\^)e\t^  (iycc]^^iii  eva  halmtarafn  piinya-skandham  ^|  pram^&ta  •  (^Ka)h 
(ptinar  a  xxx  ih'^)  /S'((bhute  yo  \ik\'iitY<^6d{(jrh'nIijrit^  dhdra)ye  » vd- 

(106)  icaye  ^  •  TpSirja,vdpiiUi)ijdt  parasya  ^  vistarena  samprakd\j(sci)ye 
Aj)i  tu  Suhh/lte  {acintyo  'tu)\^o  'yam  dliarma-paryayah  {Ayam  ca)  dhaiina- 
jparydyah  "Tathilgatena  bhasitah  ^Agraydna-sampra^[_sthitdnnih  sa]{tvd- 
ndiji  artlulya)  •  irestha-yana-samprasthiitanam  satvanaiH.  arthai/a  (Ye 
iniaiii  clJia)rma-'pa^^hjiij&\n  iidgrahesyaiiti  •  dXi^ra)^  O^^ ijisyonti  •  desa- 
yisyanti  •  vacayisyanti  •  paryavapsyanti*viii§'ta'(s  te)  Ta^thdgatena  {clr)--jt(ls 
te  Tfti/iCfi'^gatena  *  •  Sarve  te  satva  prameyy«-^0^'/-)»7i //ft-sZ;a7idh(e»rt) 
samanva^ata  i/tavisyanti  •  ^cintyen^atulyena  •  aprameye(wa  •)  [ctma- 
■piiena'\'^  {_puY-nya-K^scVi(S\i(i\v,x  samanvagatil  bhav'isya  nti  [Sarrc  te) 
saivdh  xxyena''  hodhai  dharayisyanti  •  Tat  kasya  hetoh  •  Na  hi  x  (^x^ 
XXX  8^  ^idJiarnio  [hy^n^dyihimitldUcaih  ho{tum)  i{n^a\tmardrstikaih  na 
satva-drsiAknal}  na  ju'ft-c/r.stikaih  na  ])itdgala<l rstihdh  xx  Jxxxxxxxxx^^ 

(llrt)  ixxxxxxx  turn''-''  va  •  wtcayituiiiva  •  paryavaptwwi  va  •  n^aidam 
siha^nam  t'^'dyate  •  Api  iu  Suhhide  yatra  yjr^Mvi-prad[e]se  a{yam)  sutv- 
d{nto)  prnlcPsisj<de  •  pujaniyah  sa  prthivi-pradeso  bliavisyati  •  sa-deva- 
manusy-asurasya  Zo/i;asi/fl  iYaidaniyah  pradak8ir(.i-(/irtr«7H//rt)s  ca  {sa  prthi-) 
"iyi-pradeso  bhavisyati  •  caityaOsa  prtlim-pradeso  bhavisyati  •  Ye  te 
Subhuio;  Av_da-putra  vd  l-ula-duhitaro  va  imdn  evam-^'^ru.]oa-STltr-a,ntsiU 
ugrahesyaOli"  •  dharayisyati^^  •  de^ayisyati^^  •  vacayisyati ^^  •  paryav^p- 
syati  1^  •  Te  imrihhutd  hhavlsijii''nti »  ?,\\-YcVC\h\i\it3iS  ca  bhavisyanti »  Yam 

^  The  reading  here  differs  from  the  printed  text. 

^  Begins  at  p.  33,  1.  1.'2,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  The  printed  text  has  iMrehhym  here  and  elsewhere,  but  this  ]\1S.  reads  parasya 
in  some  eases,  compare  fol.  6  V" ;  and  parebliyah  later  in  other  cases,  compare 
fol.  16  6'".     Either  word  might  be  read  here. 

■*  A  sentence  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 

°  The  printed  text  has  aprameyena.  *  So  probably. 

''  The  printed  text  has  samdm.k'iM,  but  the  word  here  is  different. 

*  Read  perhaps  kihyam  Suhliulc  ayam. 

°  In  this  and  the  following  gap  the  printed  text  has  nearly  twice  as  much  mattei. 

^"  Begins  at  p.  34,  1.  7,  of  the  printed  text. 

1^  The  d  is  omitted,  just  as  t  in  otrasisyanti  for  dltras°,  fol.  8  h"'^     [See  footnote 

17,  p.  99.— R.  H.] 

'^  The  verb  is  in  the  singular. 

^''  The  verb  is  in  the  singular.     A  line  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 


IN  THE   OEIGINAL   SANSKKIT  187 

tesdm  satvanaih  purva-janmikani  kar^nani  l-rta,ny  apdysi-safit{vartani- 
ydni')  id{ni  drsta)  '^'^eva  dharme  paribJiuif.atayd)  'purva-janmikdny 
a&uhhdni  harmdni  xx  ||xxxxxxxxxxxxxxij  [Abhijdnd-) 

(11  J)  \m]y  aham^  Suhliute  {c()flte  'dhvany  a{saonlxliyeyaih  kalpaih 
asarn)Ti}iyeyatara.i^\r  Dlpamkarasya]  ^Tathdgatasya  samyak-sambuddhasya 
parena  catiirasiti'^^  iiBuddha-koti-n{yiita-sa[!'rt]-saAasrani  babliuva  'Ye  maya 
aradhita^  •  yam  ca  maya  (Suhhu)[te\  JxxxxxxxxJ  [xxx^na]  "'viradhita 
Yam  ca  carimiOkayam  pascimikaya  vartamaiiayam ''  imaiii  sutr-4ntam 
udgrahesyanti  •  dhdrayisyanti  •  vacayii'fsyanti  -  paryav^psyanti  ^  •  AsyaO 
Subhiite  punya-skandliasy^antikad  esa  purvakah  punya-skandhah  sati- 
mam '  api  kalaiii  n<;6(x'°)"^ti  •  sahasrimam  api  •  ^ata-sabasritamam  api  • 
koti-sata-sabasritamam  api^^  •  samkhyam  api  •  kala?»  a])i  •  gcmandm  api^^ 
'^^[upan)i{sadam  ap)i  [na  Jisama)te  Sace  iSubhute  tesam  kula-piitranaih 
kula-dvihitrinam  vd  j9Zinya-sZ;andham  bhaset^  yavat  te  hula-iju- 

Folio  12  ivanting. 

(13a)  im  1^  a[6/^^sam6'M]ddba[s  Tas\xa{d)  Yivpam^karena  Tajthagatena 
Yjakrto   bhavisyasi   tvam   manav-anagate  'dhvani    a?ihyamu{ni)r  nama 

^  The  printed  text  has  hapayisi/atiti  Buddha-bodJiim  cAtnuprcipsyanii ;  but  this 
is  two  or  three  aksaras  too  short  to  fill  the  gap. 

^  Begins  at  p.  34,  1.  20,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  The  bottom  portions  only  of  these  four  aksaras  are  discernible,  but  they  agree 
with  the  reading  hhyeyatarai. 

*  These  words  fill  the  gap  exactly. 

''  This  MS.  has  °rddh°  in  this  and  the  following  sentences.  The  printed  text 
has  "rag". 

^  Read  probably  te  Buddha  BJiagavanta  drddhitd,  except  that  these  words  seem 
to  be  one  aksara  too  little. 

'^  More  condensed  than  the  printed  text. 

*  A  sentence  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 
"   Sic  ;  the  printed  text  has  iatatammi. 

^°  The  character  is  a  consonant  without  any  trace  of  a  vowel-mark.  It  resembles 
pa  or  sa,  and  must  apparently  be  p)a  of  the  preposition  vpa.  The  reading  is  not 
upaiti  as  in  the  printed  text.  There  is  room  for  a  small  letter  after  this  character, 
such  as  md  if  the  d  is  superscript.  Perhaps  the  full  reading  may  be  %ipamdti,  and 
iipamd  occurs  in  the  next  sentence  of  the  printed  text. 

11  More  abbreviated  than  the  printed  text. 

1^  The  character  does  not  appear  to  be  piy^it- 

1'  Begins  at  p.  36,  1.  21,  of  the  printed  text. 


188  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

kjTathdgato  'rhan  sam^(^ftA:-Sfl7i;,)"buddha/i  Tat  kasya  hetoh  ^Fa!^;0idga:Ma^ 
iti  Subhu[fe  Bltrdciytathatdj^adhiva.can&xn  eva  ^  •  Yah  hasci  Subhtite 
e||(>a/;;  vade  Tathdgaflten^dj^^rhatsi  samyak-sambuddhen«^nu^Oi'/«?-f/« 
samyak-sambodhim  abhisa{?ra)buddhah  ^  N;;4sti  Subliute  sa  ka^ci  dliarmo 
yas  Tathsijgaien^[dn)uttardm  ^^samyak-sambodhim  ablnsamy05«<yddhah 
Yah  Subhtite  Tathagatena  dharmo  'bhisaiiibuddhah  na  tatra  satyam  na 
mrsa  Tasma  Tathagato  "^'bhasati  sarvba-dbar[Mi]a  Jxxxxxx^  c?/iaQr[m]a 
sarvba-dharma  ifi  Subhute  Sarve  te  a  *-dharma  Tad  iicyante  sarvba- 
dharma  •  Tad  ydthd  Suhhfife  pii^kuso  bhaved  uj^Sta-^kdyo  mahd-kdyah 
XX  «  AMiijnsxQ^  Subhutir  alia  •  Yo  so  Bhagavam  Tathagatena  ^bhdspj\[tah 
u']'pe{ta-]idiio  ma-) 

(136)  i/ia-kfiyah  °  Ayus[;»]am|1xxxxxxx  'g  {Bhagavam)  Tathagatena 
bhdsitah  vpcta-khjo  maha-kaya  fi/Vz  a-kdyah  saps  Tatha(^a)"tena  bhasiteA 
Ta[cZ]  v[(-]ya^^\te  upHakdyo  mafVid^ksija  •  Evam  etat  Subhute  Yo  bodhi- 
satvah  evam  vade  •  Ahaiii  satvam  parimrva"ipayisye  •  Na  sa  bodhisa-|| 
O  tvo  f«|jktavyah  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Asti  hi  Subhute  ka^ci  dharmo  yo 
bodhisatvo  nama  •  Aha  •  No  iti  Bha^'^'gavam.  ^  Tasma  Tathagato  bhayOj 
sati  iii/isatva  sarvba-dharmah  nirjiva  nihspudgalah''  Yah  Subhute  bodhi- 
satvo evam  vade  •  Ahaiii  ■^/.setra-viviiham  nispadayisve  •  V^iV^atha^jn 
e]vam  kartavyah  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Ksetra-viyubha  ksetra-viyiibha  iti 
8nbhrde  ;]^r  viyii'^ibha  sa  Tathagatena  bh|;a.?2^(|  Tad  ucyate  ksetra- 
viyiibha  iti  •  Yah  Subhute  bocZ/w'satvo  [ft]air«/i;ia-dharma  nailra^wa- 
dharmdh  .sal  ;i  [Ta-l 

(14ra)  ithagaten"«4r[/irt!!(7  sajmyak-sambuddhena  bodhisatoo  hodhisa- 
tva  iti  vaktavyahTat  kin  manya(se  Su)'^  bhute  Samridlsyate  ^Tathdgatasya^ 


^  Three  lines  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 

^  A  line  and  a  quarter  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 

'  The  printed  text  reads  here  Biuhllia-dhaniui  ill  Tat  kasya  hetoh,  but  this  MS. 
obviously  varies  here. 

*  This  letter  is  not  clear  ;  it  might  be  tv^-a  or  tu. 

^  There  are  two  more  letters  here  than  the  printed  text  has. 

"  Begins  at  p.  37,  1.  17,  of  the  printed  text. 

'  The  scribe  seems  to  repeat  himself  here,  and  the  words  Subhutir  aha  Yo  so 
would  exactly  fill  all  this  space. 

^  Two  lines  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 

"  The  Ji  is  a  scribal  blunder ;  see  fol.  9  a,  footnote  9,  p.  184. 

■"'  Begins  at  p.  38, 1.  10,  of  the  printed  text. 


m   THE   ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  189 


mam"sa-caksuh  Aha  •  samvidyate  Bhaga-uam  Tuthagatasya  mamsa-cakswh 
Tat  kin  manyase  Subhute  Samvic/ya/c^  Tathagatasya  divyalihl  ^caksu^h 
J.iiiha  •  Evam  eva  Bhagavam  (oj  samvidyate  Tathagatasya  divvaiii 
cakauh  Tat  kin  manyase  Subhute  Samvidyate  Tathagatasya  prai^jha- 
caksuh  Aha*  Eva||0^|m  eva  Bhsigavam  samvidyate  Tathagatasya  prajiia- 
caksuh  Tat  kin  manyase  Subhute  >S'(x;iividyate  Tatha^gatasya  dharma- 
caksuh  Aha  •  jEva  Jm  eva  Bhagavaiii  samvidyate  Tathagatasya  dharma- 
cap^s«4  Tat  k^i{n  ma)njase  Subhute  Samvidyate  Tathagata"^isya  buddha- 
caksuh  AJA«  •  Evam  eva  Bhagavaj'n  samvidyate  Tathagatasya  buddha-caksuh 
Tat  ki^^n  manyase  Su|MM;e  F«yfHi;||a  Gariigaya  nacl?/a 

(1 45)  ivahka,^  ^  ajpi  nu  ^td  valikus  Tathdgatena  bhdsitdh  Aha  •  Evam  eva 
-BAa^Jgavaiii  bhasij^a  Tathdgatena'^^  sd^  (t;a)??"kah  Tat  kin  manyase 
Su6/iut(e  Ydvantd  Gamgdyd  nadyd  va^{l,ulids)  tavanta  Gamga  nadyjo 
6Aat;e2/i(J/i  Tatra  ya  va?itA:pa/i  ia||vatah  loka-dhata"ivo  bhaveyuh  Kici 
bahava|o(s  ta  loka-dhaiavo  i/iaveyuh  A.ha  •  Evam  eva  Bhagavam 
hsihavas  td  Zoka-dbatavo  bhaveyuh  ivA.ha  •  Yavata  Subhute  |0  ^eg.sit 
ZoZ;a-dhatusu  satva  tesam  aharii  nana-bhava-citta-dharam  prajanami  -  Tat 
kasya  hetoh  '''Citta-dhara  citta-dhara  iti  Subhute  Adhdrd  csa  Tathagatena 
bhasita  Tad  ucyate  citta-dhara  iti  Ta{t  Jcasya)  he'^'toh  AtUam  StMute 
cittaih  n^opalabhyate  •  Anagatam  cittam  n*6palabhyate  •  Pra|^;i!?/z//^a»?na?«J 
{cittam  n<^6)^palabhyate^  '^  •  x 

(15ffl)  ijxxxxxxxj  ya  H<«(  ''  Tat  kin  jMawe/asel  ma(hdsa)\iasr:avs\ 

^  This  long  gap  can  be  restored  with  confidence  according  to  the  analogy  of  the 
preceding  sentences  and  the  printed  text. 

^  Begins  at  p.  39,  1.  4,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  Some  of  the  letters  that  filled  this  gap  have  become  impressed  on  the  lower 
margin  of  fol.  15a,  and  can  be  discerned  there  upside  down  and  reversed,  namely, 
^/ix  X  yibhdsitdh  Ahaycvame.     The  text  has  been  thus  restored. 

*  See  note  ^ ;  all  these  letters  can  be  discerned  on  the  lower  margin  of  fol.  ISa. 

^  This  letter  looks  more  like  sd  than  td. 

^  This  ends  with  line  14  on  p.  39  of  the  printed  text.  For  the  following  blank 
letter,  see  next  note. 

''  The  following  words  Tat  kin  manyase  agree  and  begin  with  1.  15  on  p.  39 
of  the  printed  text,  but  these  preceding  words  and  the  small  gap  at  the  end  of 
fol.  145  seem  to  contain  either  additional  matter  which  comes  between  11.  14  and  15 
of  that  text  but  does  not  appear  there,  or  the  words  in  the  latter  part  of  1.  15, 
those  words  coming  first  and  tat  kin  manyase  being  inserted  parenthetically  after 
them.     The  latter  supposition  is  improbable,  because  such  a  construction   occurs 


190  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

loka-dhatum  sapto-ratna-paripiirnam  |xxxxxxxxxxxg(o)cZa^  "  Jxxxxxx^ 
tato  nidanaiii  baAy«  jow^Hja-sAxmclham  'prasave{ta)*Aha' BaJut, Bhaga^yam* 
Aha  (•  xxxxxxx2j  evam  eva  /Sifi^l^/i/mie  i?«Az<||  sa  kula-putroOva  {ku)la- 
(hihitii  va  tato  niddnaih  punya-skandbarh  prasaveta  ^  •  fiSace  ho  punahM 
SuhhuiQ  skandho  'bhavii'^J.s?/aM  na  Tajijthagato  '6/iasi  O  sya pit7iya-{skandha) 
punya-skandlia  iti •  Tat  kin  manyase  Snbhilte  kiRupa-kdya^parimspsdiySi 
Tatheiga^'Qto  dra^^stawjeih  Aba  •  No  iti  Bhagavam  Na  rujia-hdja- 
parinispatya  Tatbagato  drasta||(;«/«A  Tat  kasya  heVtoh  i^ffpa-kaya-parinispa- 
"^'J^if?  '/•||Spa-kaya-parii!,i[5j9(:6!;!;]ir  iti  t^A-parf^imspatt^  esa  Tatbagatena 
bbasitab  yTaf/  ucyate  Bupai£-k.&ya-pavinis2:)attir  iti  • 

(15&)  'y7«'!*  kin  ma%^njase  Sulhute  \a(Jcsana)-sampaclaQyds^  Ta|;tba- 
gato  drastavyah^  Tat  kasya  betoh  Ya  sa  ^aksana-saihpadd^  Tatbagatena 
bbas?ty«  laksaAna^-sampad^iiMd^  Tatbagatena  bbasitab  Tad  uc{yate 
/«)ksana-sampada  iti  •  Tat  kin  manyase  ISwMMie  ^||pi  nu  Tatbagatasy* 
rwvarii  bbava"i||/i  Maffnd  dharmo  desito  '  Yo  O  mama  SubJi\_uie]  evam 
vade  •  Tatbagatena  A-asci  dbarmo  Jxxxxi"  aMi/^'acakseta  mam  sab  Subbu- 
i'^^ife  asatij>d[it']dgrhUena'^'^  •  O  Tat  kasya  hetoh  D/iarma-c/esana  dbarma- 


nowhere  else  in  this  MS.  and  the  word  Hi  negatives  it.  Iti  indicates  the  close  of  the 
preceding  discussion.  Hence  the  former  supposition  seems  right,  and  the  gaps 
contain  additional  matter  not  in  the  printed  text. 

^  This  letter  looks  like  ta,  vd  or  da,  and  judging  from  the  printed  text  should  be 
da.  The  following  gap  can  contain  six  average-sized  or  seven  small  letters.  The 
whole  passage  should  probably  run  thus,  irtvd  arliadbliyah  samyak-sambuAdhebliyo 
ddnam  dadydd  api  nu  sa.     It  is  more  abbreviated  than  the  printed  text. 

^  This  gap  would  contain  the  mark  of  punctuation  (which  always  follows  dJia) 
and  seven  letters.  Read  perhaps  Evam  etat  Subhute,  the  phrase  of  assent  being 
doubled  in  the  printed  text.     It  occurs  doubled  thus  in  fol.  8  i"- 

^  Two  lines  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 

*  Begins  at  p.  40,  1.  13,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  Sanipadd  is  treated  as  the  nomin.  singular,  see  line  ii.  There  are  traces  of  the 
y  ;  compare  the  same  sentence  in  fol.  17a*"- '". 

"  A  line  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 

'  According  to  the  printed  text  these  words  should  be  read  b]idsit->dlahsana. 

*  Or  perhaps  aiKd,  as  it  should  be  with  sanipadd.  Compare  a-samjh<^esd  in 
fol.  19  fl^ 

■'  A  line  and  a  half  of  the  printed  text  are  omitted  after  this. 
"  The  words  dcnta  iti  are  suggested  by  the  printed  text  here,  but  seem  rather 
too  much  for  the  space  unless  we  read  ity  abJiya°. 

^^  The  prefix  nd  seems  here  to  be  supei-fluously  repeated. 


IN  THE   ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  191 

d[e]sana  iti  Subhute  ^N^dsti  sa^l  kasci  dharmo  yo  dharma-desa"^y«a  xxx 
xxx«(^i|iyusmam  SubhziJ^iyr  Bhagavantam  etad  avocat,  Santi  Bliaga- 
vaiii  keci  saniri^tva  xxxxxx  ye^  ime  eYam-'^'Wirupa-dharmdn  xxxxj  mana  (x^ 


ntih  |xx  sraddfiQisyctnti."  •  Bhagavan  aha  •  Na  te  Subhute  ^x xxxxxx xx 

X  xxx  •'^ 

(16a)  'Sarva*-satva  sarvba  satva  iti  Subhut[e]  Asa{tvds  te)  Tathaga- 
tena  bhasita  Tad  ucvate  \_ssi]rvba-satvd  ^iti  •  Tat  kin  manyase  -S'«;  "bhute 
Api  nu  kasci  dharmas  Tathagaten^^nuttaram  samyak-scmibodhim  abhisam- 
buddhah  Ayusm&m.  Subhu||^w'  aha  No  Hi  ^  Bhuf/aQ^hHih.  kasci  dharma  yah 
TathaOgaten^inuttaraiii  samyak-samlodhim  abhisarhbuddhah  Bhaga- 
van aha  I  •  xxxxxxxx  6j  ivevam  eta  Subhiite  anuOr  api  tatra  dharmo 
na  samvidyate  n^opalabhyate  •  Tad  ucvate  'nuttara  samyak-saiiibo- 
'  dhih  Api  tu  SubhiiQ^te  samah  sa  dharmab  na  tatra  kirhcid  bisamaiii  Tad 
ucyate  'nuttara  samyak-saiiibodhih  (n)airatme(iia  •  7iir)jivatvena  •  nihsa- 
Jxxxxxxx 'Jvina  .  Sama  s*d,nuttara  sam^/ak-samftodhih  sarv6e  *  Z;M!5alair 
dharmair  ablnsairhbudhyate  •  KusaZa  dharma  kusala  dharma  iti  Su- 
hhilte  [A-] 

(165)  'dharma'  c^^va  te  Tathagatena  bhasitah  Tad  ucyante  kusala 
dharma  iti  •  Ye  khalu  Suhhute  yavantah  tr-sahas7'a-maha-sahasre  loka- 
dhd^hau  Sumeravah  parvbata-rajanah  tavantan  rasirii  saptanam  ratna- 
nam  abhisaiiiharitva  danara  dadyad'^"  yas  c«aitah  prajna-parafjwii/a^/a 


'  There  is  room  for  six  aksaras  here,  of  which  the  last  has  the  vowel  d  apparently. 
'Ndiii'>6])alabliyate  of  the  printed  text  does  not  suit. 

^  All  this  is  much  abbreviated,  and  it  is  difficult  to  offer  more  suggestions  for 
filling  up  the  gaps. 

^  Read  probably  *«<«/•«  n-^dsatrd  Tat  hasya  Jietoh,\et  there  still  remain  three  more 
spaces  for  aksaras,  which  are  uncertain. 

*  Begins  at  p.  41,  1.  8,.  of  the  printed  text. 
«  Compare  fol.  13  /y". 

'^  The  printed  text  in  doubling  the  phrase  of  assent  suggests  that  we  should  read 
here  Svatn  etat  Sublmte,  but  this  seems  to  be  one  letter  too  short  for  the  space. 
Compare  the  doubled  phrase  in  fol.  8 IJ". 

"  The  printed  text  suggests  the  reading  here  should  be  tvatvena  impiidgalatce , 
but  this  seems  to  be  one  letter  too  much  for  the  space. 

*  For  sarvbaih. 

°  Begins  at  p.  41,  1.  20,  of  the  printed  text. 
^^  More  abbreviated  than  the  printed  text. 


192  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

xxxxij  iiicatnspadim  api  gathawi.  ^Odgrhya  parebliyo  desaye  •  asya 
Subhute  punya-skandhasya  esa  purvakah  punya-||sAa?ii?Aa/j  satatcmuwt^ 
i'^kala  n#6peti  •  HpanisaOm  api  na  ksamate  •  Tat  hm  manyase  Su5A«te 
Api  [« w]  Tctthagatasy^ar^  jyr^w.  bhavati  x  2  mayd  .?o|>tva  mocitali  Na  ho 
punali  Subhute  evam  drastavyaili  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Na  Subhute  l;a[sci 
s«.]tvo  'sti  ya|^s  Tathdgatena  parimocitahW  '^'Yadi  punah  Subhute  kascit  satvu 
bhavei^  yas  TathagateiKx  loariraodto  'hhavisyat^  sa  [e]va  TsdMl^yatasy^ 
dttiia-f/rdho  'bhavisyat^fi^ 

(17«.)  i(srt?ra)-gTaho  ^  •  jiva-grahah  pudgala-graho  'bhavisya^\  Atma- 
graha  iti  Subhute  agraha  esa  Tathagate««  tAasitah  Sa  5a/a-pr"thag- 
janair  udgrhi/«li  bala-prthag-janfi  iti  Subhute  a-janas  te  Tathagatena 
hhasHdh.  Tad  ncy&nfe  bala-prthag-jana  iti  "'Tat  kin  manyase  Subhute 
LaOksana-samjJttf/rTyas  Tathagato  drastavyah  Aha  •  Evam  eva  Bha- 
gava>i;  /c(.^-.s'rtna-samj9aday(ftA'  T«)i'*"thagato  drastavyah*  Aha  •  OSacet 
punah  Subhute  laksana-sampadayas  Tathagato  drastavyo  'hham^syad 
r«Jj«4pi  cakravartz  2fl'^thagato  'bhavisyaif^  Tasmad  akiksana-sampadayas 
Tathagato  drastavyah  Aiju-smam  SiilJultiY  aha  •  Ysf  th-^dham  xxx  5  jjjidl  jo-a- 
vato  "^^bhasitasy^artham  ajanami  •  na  lai?;.9flr(.fl,-s«'?//padayas  Tathagato 
drastar;/rtA  ^-Itha  Bhagav«)it  tosyam  n/  Idijdiit  imdih  gdthdm  xxxx  « J 

(175)  'sit^^  ■'  1J  Ye  mam  rupena  adraks(i)  ^  Ye  mam  [gho.^ena)  anvaxuh 
mitJtyu-praJidna-j^raso'td  na  mam  ''  dra\l;siia'\[nti)  te  {na)7lrdh  Tat  kin 
manyase  Subhute  i<^|^|iiksana-sariapadaya  Tathagaten#^nu(!!/(()ra  samyak- 
sambodhi(v«  ahhisam)huddhdli  Xa  ho  punah  Subhu(/e  evam)  drastavya||;« 


■■■  The  printed  text  has  dharma-jjaryuijCul,  but  that  is  too  long  for  this  gaj). 

^  So  the  printed  text,  but  there  is  room  for  one  more  aksara. 

^  Begins  at  p.  43,  1.  1 2,  of  the  printed  text. 

*  This  sentence  difters  altogether  from  the  printed  text ;  and  three  lines  of  that 
text  are  omitted  after  this. 

^  There  are  three  more  aksaras  here  than  the  printed  text  has. 

^  The  printed  text  has  hue  gal /le  uhhcimfa^\,\\.i  here  only  one  verse  is  quoted,  and 
the  verb  would  seem  to  be  (reading  on  into  fol.  \.7b)  some  irregular  form  like 
allLii^lfd.  Blids  is  used  here  in  the  parasmaipada,  see  fol.  13  a^.  Still  one  aksara 
would  remain  blank. 

'   ]3egins  at  p.  43,  1.  5,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  The  ks  has  a  vowel-mark  above  but  none  beneath.  Adrdk.fii  seems  to  be 
intended.     Grammatical  irregularities  occur  here  frequently. 

'  The  letter  seems  to  be  muih  or  md,  but  not  mam. 


IN  THE  ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  193 

Na  Subhute  laksana-samM^[])a)™^yuja.s,  Tathagaten^^nuOttara  samyak- 
saiiabodhim  abhisamhucldhah  syat  khalu  evam  asya  ^  Bodhisatva-y|]fl«« J- 
{samprasthi)tena  saiHvena  kasyaci  dharmasya  vinaOsah  prajfiaptah 
ucchedo  va  •  Na  ho  punas  te  Subhute  evaiii  drastavyam  Na  ho^dhi^- 
satva-yaaa-stxm^TSLsthiHenSi.  satvena  kasyaci  dharmasya  vina^ah  prajila- 
ptah  n<;6cchedam  va  •  Yah  khalu  pun  ah  Subhute  Gsimga,-ivd,di-valuka- 
samam  loka-dhatum  '^isapta-ratna-paripiirnam  krtva  danaiii  dadyad  ^ 
yas  ca  bodhisatvo  nairatmesu  anutpattikesu  dharmesit  hsantim.  pra^i'la- 
bheta  •  Ay  am  eva  te  {da)\_nam\  ^ 

(ISft)  ifeahutaram*  punya-skandhaiii  prasaveta  •  Na  ho  punah  Subhute 
bodm[sa^i;e]J»a  punya-skandhah  parigrahetavyah  Aha  •  Nanu  Bhagavam  pu^^^ 
(ni/a)-uskandhah  parigrahetavyo  •  Bhagavan  aha  •  Parigrahetavyah  Su- 
bhiite  {nodgra)\hetavyah  Tad  ucya^^te pari^[grahetavyah  Ajyi  tu  ^]  Subhute 
[yayi  "'kascic?  evarh  vade  •  TathagaOto  gacchati  v^^gacchati  va  •  tisthati 
va  •  {ni)sldati  vd  •  [sayydm]  v(a  kalpaya)ti  na  me  sah  bhasi'i'^tasy^girtham 
ajanati  •  TaOt  kasya  Aetoh  Ta^Mgata  iti  Subhute  ca'^  kvacid  «gatah 
a-kvacid  gatah  Tasmad  ucyate  Tatha"^gato  'rharh  samyak-saiiibuddhah 
Yah  khalu  punah  Subhute  kula-putro  va  •  kula-duhita  va  •  yavanti 
^r-sahasra-?«ahasahasre  loka-dhatau  "prthivi-rajariisi  sa  evam-rft^jarh 
masim  kurya  yava  ev^^^samkhyeyena  •  Tad  yatha  nama  paramdwit- 
saihcsiyah  Tat  A'in  manya[se]  Subhu- 

(186)  he  *  Api  tu  sa  paramanu-samcayo  bhavet^  Aha  •  Evam  eva 
Bhagavarh  Bahu  sa  paramanu-samcayo  bhavet\  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Sace 
Bhagavam  (sa)[m]"(ca)yo  'bhavisya  na  Bhagavarii  'hhdsisjSim  param^nu- 
sarhcaya   iti  •  Tat  kasya   heto   Yo   so  £^«gavata   paramanu-samcayo 

^  This  seems  to  be  intended  for  a  negative  verb  a-si/dt ;  conapare  a-gacchati  in  fol. 
18  fl"\ 

^  More  abbreviated  than  the  printed  text. 

^  The  printed  text  has  Ayam  eva  tato  niddnam. 

*  Begins  at  p.  44,  1.  1,  of  the  printed  text. 

^  These  words  which  nearly  agree  with  the  printed  text  exactly  fit  this  long  gap. 

^  These  words  fit  this  gap  and  agree  with  the  printed  text,  except  that 
tad  ucyate  always  stands  in  this  MS.  for  ten->dcyate  of  the  printed  text,  and  iti  is 
omitted  as  it  is  often  in  this  MS. 

^  The  printed  text  has  na,  but  the  letter  here  resembles  ca  or  da  and  not  na. 

*  Begins  at  p.  44,  1.  15,  of  the  printed  text. 


194  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

h^ftsiiaK]  a-[s(:n».]i"'cayah  sa  Bhagavata  bliasiOtah   Tad  ucyate  para- 

manu-saiiicaya    iti  •  Yam  ca  Tathagato   bhasatz    rnah.asa[ha']sro  (loha-) 

"dhatuh  a-dhatu  sas  TathagaOtena  bhasitah  Tad  ucyate  mahasahasro 

loka-dhatuh  Tat  kasya  hetoh  Bace  Bliaga\yaYn  dlultur  a^^bhavisyat^  sa 

c«cMva   pinda-graho  'bhavisya  •  Yas  c«aiva    Tathagatena   pinda-grabo 

bhfi.i^itali  (rt)-[g'r«]ha  sas  Taf^agatena  bhasitah  Haykl  itcyate  pinda-graha 

iti  •  Bhagavan  aba  Pinda-grahas  c^aiva  vyavaharo  t'-Sulhiite  'nabhilapyah 

Na  sa  dharmo  n-f-ddharmah  Sa  ca  bdla-^M 

^i  _ 

{19a)  '^rthag^-janair  udgr(hi)ta  Jxxxxxxxxx^J  vade  •  Atma-drstis 
Tathagatena  bbasi<«h  satva-drstih  jiva-drstih  pudgala-dr|.sfiA  x  *  T«-P: 
"tbagatena  bhasil  ~td  Api  nu  .srt|imyag  vaclay?na|  :no  vade  •  Subhtitir  aha  ■'  • 
Ya  sa  'Bhsigavojit.  atma-drstis  Tatha[g'a]tena  bh|^«.«/a,^  x|  "ia-drstih  sa 
Tsdhiigatel^nay  hhasita  ^Ta^d  ucyate  atma-drstir  iti  •  Evam  Subhtite 
bodhisatva-yana-sampras</^^tena  sarvba-nc/Aar»wa||  i'^jnatavya  drastavya  • 
adhipO|^(s^/i^^(^)vja"  •  (Yc6)tha  na  dharma-samjna  pratyiipasthahe  •  Tat 
kasya  heto  Dhaxvasi-^samjna)  ^dhartna-satrijiid  iti  Subhiif<^te  a-samjn#§sa 
Tathaga(^ena)  Ijihasi]  {td)  Tad  ucyate  dharma-sariijn^eti  •  Yah  khalu 
Subhute  bodhisatvo  {niaJmsctjW^vo  xxxxxx''  loka'dhdtinh^  ■^isapta-(r«/'H,ft- 
2)a7-)\'p{m-ndrh)  ^xxxx  ^J  parityaje  •  d'  yas  ca  kula-putro  va  •  kula-dubita 
va  (i)i{takp7-ajiid-pdt-amitdyd  dharma-parydyd  cdtuspa-^'^^ 

(19&)  l[(/^])J^."  ajrri  gaihwa.  udgr(/i7/«)  "Qdhdraye  •  ^  \_desaye  •  va]{ca)je 
\_paryavdpnuyat  parebliya^  ^^]  {ca  vista/)')ii^eiia  samprakdsayed  ayam  tato 
bahutaram   ]nanja-':'^^{sha)ndham    prnsnvet^    Katha[')y;.]    ca    sam||/?r«^fTsa 


•*  The  words  of  the  iJiinted  text  fill  the  gap  exactly.     It  also  reads  avyavalidro. 

^  Begins  at  p.  45,  1.  7',  of  the  printed  text. 

^  Judging  from  the  printed  text  the  words  in  this  blank  might  be  either  yali 
hoicl  SuhJiule  evai'n,  or  Tat  kasya  lietoh  la  evai'ii.  The  latter  seems  less  probable 
because  tat  kasya  lietoh  is  omitted  in  the  Japan  MS.  as  noted  in  the  printed  text. 

*  There  seems  to  be  one  more  syllable  here  than  in  the  printed  text. 

^  A  line  of  the  printed  text  is  omitted  after  this. 

"  So  the  word  appears  to  be. 

"^  Read  perhaps  prameij-dscmikJiyeyum.. 

^  Read  perhajjs  paritydgam  ;  see  fol.  9^",  and  fol.  10  a''^". 

'  The  punctuation  here  is  out  of  place. 
^^  For  cdtvspadlm,  see  fol.  16  6"^. 
^^  Begins  at  p.  46,  1.  1,  of  the  printed  text. 
'^  Such  traces  of  the  letters  as  remain  agree  with  this  reading. 


IN   THE   OEIGINAL   SANSKRIT  195 

{yed  ya)tha  n^dkassije  •  Tad  ucyate  swlhprakas&myet^,^  Tara[Jid  tiiiii']- 
^ram  dJpo  may-dvasyaya-budbudaih  svwp(^^nam  vidyiid  ahhram  ca  evam 
f?r«s)[fct]|jo||v3^a[m]  sa,ms{krtam)  Idam  avoca  Bhagava[*i  ffi]^^amaiia 
Sthavira-(*S'ttfc/ifi)[^«'s  te\  ^ca  hhiksu-bhiksuny-updsak-6p(i^^(silca)  •  sa-cleva- 
gandharvba-JOmc(Mi<|s-4suras  ca  [Z]oko  Bhagavato  bhasitam  abhya- 
nandur  iti  •  TJ  Addhyas_to)».ft  WJihagavati  Arya-Vajracchedi^"fksi  prajna- 
paramita  |j.saTOdp^ax|  (^a)  siddhix  ya^  •  saha  bhartari  Nandimbalena  • 
saha  pitrna  e^xxxxxxxx  (^xxxj  ^^[xxdx]  ktlena  •  (sa)3Aaxxxxxxxp 
(H)ena  »  saha  (A^e)salena  •  sa/i«    S&mosiXtyo  •  sa(Aa  x  sarvha-satv)[_aih 


xxxx]  (xxj 


^  The  printed  text  puts  this  after  the  verse  quoted  here. 

^  These  letters  must  apparently  contain  some  woman's  name,  because  the  word 
■  husband '  follows. 

^  This  letter  is  not  like  the  e  always  used  in  this  MS.  but  resembles  that  in  rrcau 


in  fol.  14  5™ 


[Note  to  p.  178.  The  forms  u  and  w  occur  only  with  M  (in  the  proportion  of 
103  :  12);  and  li,  in  a  slightly  modified  form,  occurs  also  with  r  (see,  e.g.,  rppena, 
fol.  17  b^,  in  Ancient  Khotan,  Plate  CVIII) ;  while  the  form  4  occurs  with  jb,  s,  and 
y.  All  three  forms  are  found  also  in  the  manuscript  of  the  Saddharma-pundarika, 
edited  by  Professor  Liiders,  pp.  144  fF.  In  that  manuscript,  indeed,  all,  or  most  of 
the  other  varieties  of  vowel  signs  have  been  noticed  ;  see  pp.  140-2.  The  forms  w,  u 
(in  the  ru  variety),  and  u  are  the  fourth,  second,  and  first,  respectively,  of  Professor 
Liiders'  enumeration.  Of  his  third  form  there  is  no  example  in  the  Vajracchedika. 
— E.  H.] 


o2 


YOCABULARY  TO   ALL   SANSKRIT  TEXTS* 

By  a.  F.  Eudolf  Hoernle. 


{H.  =  Hoernle,  L.  =  Liiders,  P.  =  Pargiter,  Th.  =  Thomas.) 


*a-kusalamula,  stock  of  demerit,  Th.  4  5*. 
a-gaechati,  he  does  not  go,  P.  18  a"i. 
a-gati,  evil  course,  H.  4  (1)  &". 
agai-traya,  three  kinds  of  fire,  H.  4  (2)a^\ 
*a-graha,  baseless  notion,  P.  17  a^,  18  b^. 
Angulimala,   pr.  n.    of  a  robber,  H.    12 

(3)  6iii. 
*a-eari,  not-moving,  Th.  1 1  a\ 
*a-eintika,   unthought  of,  Th.  7  (1)  a",  7 

(2)  6"-  "i. 
a-cintya,  inconceivable,  Th.  7  (2)  «"' ;   P. 

10  6i-  i'f. 
a-jana,  insignificant  person,  P.  17  a". 
Ajita,  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  Th.  11  a"'. 
anuka-echidra,  minute  hole,  H.  13  (1)  b^. 
anda-ja,  born  fi'om  an  egg,  P.  2  a". 
*atigariibh.ira,  very  profound,  Th.  7  (2)  6^. 
'"ativistaram,  at  great  leng-th,  Th.  7(1)  a". 
atlta-buddha,   a  past  Buddha,  Th.   7  (2) 

a™-  i^. 
atlte  'dhvani,  in  time  past,  Th.  5  a" ;  P.  9 

ai^,  1 1  b\ 
*atisvalpatva,  extreme  sparseness,  Th.  3  a^. 
*a-datt-adana,  taking  things  wrongfully, 

H.  10(57)aif,  5ii.m 
*a-dustul-apatti, not-grave  offence, H.  3a™. 
a-drsta-purva,  not  seen  before,  Th.  6  a>. 
a-drsti,  baseless  theory,  P.  1 9  a™. 
*adbh.uta-prapta,  struck  with  wonder,  L. 

259  &iii-vi. 
adraksi(t),  he  sees,  P.  1 7  6'. 
*a-dvandTa,  unequalled,  H.  12  (l)6"-iii. 
*a-dh.arina,  baseless  dharma,  P.  13  a^. 
*a-dhatu,  not  a  dhatu,  P.  7  6". 
*a-dliara,  not  a  fiow,  P.  1 4  b^. 
adhigantu-kama,  desiring  to  understand, 

Th.  3  ffli. 


adhimukta,  (whose  mind)  is  set  upon  (some- 
thing), L.  3  6";  adhimuktika,  P.  10  6". 

adhimukti,  steady  i-esolve,  Th.  8  a". 

adhivaeana,  designation,  epithet,  P.  13aii. 

adhisthana,  resolve,  H.  4  ( 1 )  ctiv. 

adhisthita,  subjected,  Th.  2  6'™. 

*adliisthitaTya,  to  be  held  fast,  P.  1 9  a^'^. 

*adhyarania-gata,  gone  to  a  monastery, 
H.  1  avi. 

*adb.yasayena,  purposely,  Th.  5  6"^". 

*adhyesyati,  he  invites,  L.  260  6ii- ". 

adhvan,  time,  Th.  5  a" ;  see  attte,  ana- 
gata. 

*adhvabhasit  (for  adhya°).  he  pronounced, 
Th.  2  a™'  7  (1)  aii ;   7  (2)  6". 

a-nata,  firm,  Th.  8  5". 

*an-atikranta,  not  overstepping,  Th .  7  ( 1 ) 5". 

an-anta-guna,  infinitely  good,  Th.  7  (2)  5i^. 

*an-anugata,  not  practising,  Th.  8  hi"-  i^. 

*ari-abliinata,  feeling  no  inclination  to- 
wards, H.  6  ai. 

*an-abliiprasanna,  ill-disposed,  H.  5  a". 

*an-abhiramya,   incapable  of  joy,  Th.  6 

an-agata,   not-come,  future,   with   adhvan 

time,  L.  260  Sii-T;  P,  13  a\  or  Mia,  time, 

Th.  SW,  or  citta,  thoughts,  P.   146^1,  or 

buddha,  Th.  7  (2)  a™- ". 
"'an-attamanata,  notrejoicing,  H. 10(57)6™. 
*an-astara,  not  spreading-out  of  robes,  H. 

3  a". 
a-niyato  rasi,  mass  of  what  is  neither  truth 

nor  falsehood,  H.  4  (2)  a'. 
*a-nirayuka,  freedom  from  envy,  H.  10  (56) 

a". 
anukampa,  mercy,  L.  254  b™  ;  H.  2  JK 
an-uttara,  final,  Th.   4  6™;   supreme,  Th. 

11  a^,  feii";  L.  253  a\  b™  ;   259  a^\  b™; 

P.  13aiii,  16  aii,  17  jii.  iii. 


Including  only  selected  words;  those  not  recorded  elsewhere  are  marked  with  an  asterisk. 


VOCABULAKY  TO  ALL  SANSKEIT  TEXTS 


197 


*an-ut[t]rasitu-kania,  desirous  to  have  no 

apprehension,  Th.  10  a^. 
an-utpattika,  not  liable  to  rebirth,  P.  17 

6";  Th.  11  av. 
*anuciar8in,  perceiving,  L.  3  b^K 
*an-uddista,  undeclared,  Th.  2  a^. 
an-uddhara,  not-taking-up  of  robes,  H.  3  a^i, 

an-upadhisesa,  absence  of  individuality,  P, 
2  6". 

*anuparigrhita,  received,  P.  2ai-iii. 

*amipalakatva,  cherishing,  H.  10  (56)  fiiif. 

*anupreksin,  searching,  Th.  4  a^". 

anumanyatu,  may  it  grant,  Th.  1 0  b™\ 

anumodita,  approved,  Th.  7  (2)  a'. 

Anuradha,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  b\ 

anuvyanjana,  secondary  sign,  L.  253  6" 

*aiiusamsa,  praise,  Th.  2  a^™. 

*an-ovada-prasthapaiia,  initiating  cen- 
sure, H.  3  a'v  ;  a°-visthapana,  prevent- 
ing censure,  H.  3  a'^. 

antamasas,  even,  L.  253  6';  Th.  2  a^^. 

*antali-pakva,  food  cooked  indoors,  H.  3  a^. 

antaraya,  interference,  H.  10  (57)  a^ ; 
obstacle,  Th.  2  6"- 

antarapana,  market-place,  L.  253  6^'". 

antargata  [indriya),  inward  turned  (senses), 
H.  1  6v. 

antardhana,  disappearance,  Th.  3  a^',  5*". 

*antardhaiii,  id.,  Th.  3  6i^. 

antardhasyate,  it  will  be  hid,  Th.  3  6™- 

antevasin,  mate  of  a  tradesman,  H.  6  6^. 

antovusta,  (food)  kept  indoors,  H.  3  ay. 

andhakara-pravista,  entered  into  a  dark 
place,  P.  9  6''. 

*apatrapya,  modesty,  Th.  6  6^". 

*a-paritrasyamana,  not  being  in  fear,  L. 
3  6'^. 

*a-paribliava,  not-contemptuousness,  H.  10 
(57)  a", 

Apalala,  pr.  u.  of  a  Naga,  H.  5  6^'. 

apavaktr,  detractor,  H.  12  (3)  a^. 

apaya,  place  of  suffering,  Th.  5  b^;  P.  1 1  a'^  ; 
see  tr-apdya. 

*a-parimita,  not  a  perfection,  P.  9  ai. 

apasraya,  observance  (four),  H.  4(1)  aP'. 

*a-pitrjnata,  not  honouring  one's  father,  H. 
10(56)&'. 

a-pragalbha,  unassuming,  H.  8  6^', 

*a-pratikarin-apatti,  offence  without  sub- 
sequent atonement,  H.  3  a^^. 

*a-pratigrhita,  not  received,  H.  3  a^. 

*a-pratighati,not-contentious,H.12(2'')a". 


*a-pratipudgala,  who  has  no  lival,  H. 
6  6i. 

a-pratilabdha,  unobtained,  Th.  2  ay. 

a-pratisthana,  having  no  reliance,  P.  9  6'; 
apratisthita,  not  relying  on,  P.  2  h^. 

*a-pramanatara,  countless,  Th.  10  a"". 

a-bahirgatena  {mmiasena),  without  out- 
ward-turned (thoughts),  H.  1  6'. 

*a-bralimanyata,  not  living  as  a  brahman, 
H.  10(56)6i. 

abhigita,  chanted,  L.  253  a^^. 

*abhiprakiranti,  they  overwhelm,  Th.  11 

*abliipravarsi,  it  rained  down,  Th.  1 1  6^'i. 

*abhimantrana,  invitation,  H.  10  (57)  a'. 

abhimukhi-krta,  set  against,  H.  12  (1)6^- 

abhiyoga,  endeavour,  Th.  3  a*. 

*abliisaihyana,  visiting,  H.  12  (3)a''-^i, 

abhisamskarot  (abhisamakarot),  he  per- 
formed, Th.  1  ji ;  abhisamskrta,  per- 
formed, Th.  1  ai. 

abhisamskara,  performance,  Th.  1  a*,  bK 

*abhisariiharitva,  having  collected,  P.  166". 

abhisamaya,  comprehension,  see  jnana, 
dharma. 

abhisambuddha,  enlightened,  L.  253  6" ; 
P.  9  6w,  1 3  ai-  ii'-  iv,  1 6  a"-  ii*,  1 7  6"-  ^K 

abhisambodhi,  enlightenment,  L.  253  6*", 
254  6™. 

abhistavinsu,  they  eulogized,  Th.  5  6*". 

abhihita  {abhihata  ?),  afSicted,  Th.  5  6", 
withjara,  q.v. 

abhusit   (abhusi),    it    happened,    Th.    1 1 

^iii.  vi.  Yii.  x^  Ji.  ii. 

*abliyanumodana,  approval,  H.  10  (57)  6'^ 
abhyamimodita,  approved,  Th.  7  (2)  a*, 
abhyavakiranti,  they  cover,  Th.  1 1  S^ii-  ™'. 
abhra,  cloud,  P.  19  6™. 
*a-nianasi-kara,  inattentive,  Th.  5  a*, 
a-mamisya,  not-human,  Th.  2  a^-  >i'. 
a-mama,  having  no  self-conceit,  H.  6  6ii*. 
*a-inatrjnata,  not  honouring  one's  mother, 

H.  10  (56)  6i. 
a-maya,  having  no  illusion,  H.  6  6". 
*a-misri-krta,  undefiled,  L.  3  6'. 
*anibara-tata-stha,  heaven,  Th.  7  (2)  6^. 
*a-raksamya,  not  needing  to  be  guarded,  H. 

4  (2)  aiii ;  a-rakslta,  not  guarded,  H.  4 

(2)  a". 
aranya,  forest,  Th.  4  a*,  7  (2)  a'^'i. 
aram,  completely,  Th.  5  6'"- 
a-rupin,  formless,  P.  2  6i. 


198 


VOCABULARY   TO 


artha-carya,  beneficent  rulo,  H.  4  (1)6^'. 

■'arth-atara,  ferrj^of  the  meaning  (interpre- 
tation), H.  13  {3)  ay. 
arddha-hara,  half-uecklace,  Tb.  1 1  b^. 
Ardra,  pv.  n.  of  an  astcrisni,  Tb.  9((^i. 
*Aryasoma,  pr.  n.  of  a  Buddbist  monk,  H. 

2  &ii.  iii-  vi^ 

a-laksana,  bad  sign,  P.  7  b^f ;  °a-sampada, 

wcaltb  of  bad  sign,  P.  17  ci^'. 
a-labha,  ill-snoccss,  want  of  success.  H.  10 

(57)  „v. 
alpa-buddhi,  having  little  understanding, 

Tb.  7  (1)  a™  ;  *alpa-bhoga,  Iiaviug  little 

means,    H.    lo    (57)  o" ;    *alpa-sakya, 

baving  little  power,  H.  10  (56)  a\ 
avakranti,  entrance  npon,  Tb.  8  b™. 
avagunthita,  veiled,  H.  13  (3)  oJ^'. 
avabhasa  [^n)t)-ti.t:i/a),  range  (of  liearing), 

Tb.  2  «v. 
*a-varn-arha,  uuwortbv  of  praise,  H.  13 

(1)«". 
''a-varsika,  a  monk   of  less  than  a  years 

standing,  H.  2  ii"'. 
avalokayatl,    be    looks    towards,   L.   2ii0 

*avaskarata,  off-scouring,  H.  13  (1)&". 
*a-vastu-pratipattita,  witbout  relying  on 

aiiytbing,  P.  2  b^^. 
avahita,  attentive,  Tb.  7  (2)  uy'. 
■'a-vikirat,  not  dropiiing  alxmt  (almsfood), 

H.  1  b». 
a-viksipta,  undisturbed,  Tb.  7  (2)  «^'  :  H. 

1  a",  6"-  i'^. 
''a-vijanamana,  not  understanding,  Tb.  7 

(l)a«i. 
"a-vitatha-vadin,    not-untrutb    speaking, 

P.  9  b^y. 
a-vipaka,  without  result,  Tb.  4/'". 
*a-viyabha,niit  a  vuiha,  no  display,  P.  13  b^. 
*a-vaivartika,    unalile    to   tui'n    back,    L. 

254  a™,  260  a^i;   av°-bhuiiii,  a  stage  of 

bodbisattvabood,  Tb.  10  «^''''. 
"a-vyakaraniya,  not   to  be   explained  or 

answered,  H.  4  (1)  6'". 
*a-vyapada,  alisence  of  malice,  H.  4  (l)a". 
a-vyavadhy-adhimukta,  who  is  set  upon 

kindness,  L.  3  ly. 
a-su^rusa(for  rt.s'K.sr'«.va,),not  caring  to  listen, 

H.  10(56)6™. 
*a-srainanyata,  not  living  ;is  a  Sramana, 

H.  1 0  (56)  bK 
Ailesa,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9f!^". 


A^vini,  pr.  n.  of  an  .isterisni,  Tb.  ',)((.',  h\ 
a-samkhyeya,  innumerable,  Tb.  2  ii''\  [11 
<('>■;  P.  IS  a" 
a-saihcaya,  not  an  aggregate,  P.  18  6". 
a-saiiijna,  baseless  idea,  V.  8  rt"',  6"i,  9  k", 

6iii,  l',)rtV. 

"asat-pralapa,  idle  talk,  H.  13  (2)  6'i. 
a-sattva,  not  a  being,  1'.  9  6iii,  Uwt'. 
*a-sampradharya,  inconceivable,  H.  13(2) 

*a-saraka,  not  real,  Th.  7  (1)6". 

asi,  sword,  Tb.  6  6^'. 

asura,  a  class  of  mythological  beings,  P.  1 1 
ft",  19  6'^;  Tb.  6  «"■'>,  6iT- V ;  ^asura- 
pura,  Asura  settlement,  Tb.  6  (fiii-v  ;  as' - 
bhavana,  iJ.,  Tb.  6  6"  ;  as°-raja,  Asura 
king,Tb.  (1  6'"~ix;  asurendra,  Asura  over- 
lord, Tb.  6  «"■,  6f  ;  with  Lwi/a,  Tb.  6  6^^^. 

a-seeanaka,  charming,  with  bhdva,  H.  12 
(2«)«vi. 

*a-sya(t),  it  u;ay  not  be,  P.  17  6'". 


akara,  pieeious,  Th.  7(2)6'^". 
*akasaye(t),  be  sh.iws,  I'.  19  6". 
akirna,  ciowded,  11.  12  (2°)/<^'. 
akrostr,  re\iler,  H.  12  (3)<(^'. 
aksipet,  it  should  put  to  shame,  H.  12  (2")  (('>'. 
*acakseta,  it  may  be  sjiokon,  P.  15  6"'. 
*Atanati,  pr.  n.  of  a  ^Iali,iyal<sha,  H.  5  6"- "'. 
*attainanata,  ready-mindcdness,  H.  10  (56) 

(A",  (57)  (('^^\  6'"i^. 
attamanas,  «dth  attentive  mind,  Th.  10  6'" ; 

P.  19  6'";   see  o^)/((»i((»(!S. 
'  atma-graha,  positing  of  self,  IM6  6^1,17  a'; 

*a°-drsti,  belief  in  sell,   P.    19  a'-  "•  "' ; 

*a°-drstika,  I'.IO  6^';  a°-bliava,one'sown 

self,  personality,  PI.  4  (1)  6"  ;  P.  i;  a'"-  >^', 
10  a"  ■^i  *a°-samcetana,  consciousness  of 
self,  H.  4  (1)6^";  *a -samjSa,  conception 
of  self,  P.  2  6iv,  8  Ji-  ",  9  (("■  "i-  V. 

*adi-sutra,  aboriginal  sutra,  Tb.  7  (2)6"'. 

adinava,  evil,  Th.  2  Ji^. 

addhyastama  (?),  P.  1 9  6^ . 

Ananda,  pr.  n.  of  Buddbist  monk,  H.  13  (3) 
«"'. 

*aptamanas,  with  recejitive  mind,  H.  5  «'  ', 
7  6'*'.      Sec  fUld'iiiaiuis. 

abhasa,  reach  of  perception  (by  the  sense^), 
L.  3  ay  "?i". 

ayatana,  sensation,  Th.  4((''  ;  L.  3  6^'i. 


ALL  SANSKEIT  TEXTS 


199 


*ayu-prainana,  duration  of  life,  Th.  1 1  a""; 

L.  259  h\ 
ayusman,  venerable,  Th.  1  a^^ ;  P.  2  cC',  7 

aii,  13  b\  &c. 
aranyaka,  wild  animal,  Th.  2  ¥. 
*arupya,  incorporeal  state,  Th.  8  6". 
*argada,  bolt  (of  door),  H.  1  J^™. 
arya,  the  Elect,  epithet  of  Buddhist  monks, 

Th.  8  aif-  V,  6i-iv  ;  also  of  a  book,  P.  19  &i^. 
alaiiibana,  opportunity,  H.  9  a"'. 
aloka,    light   (opp.   tamas),    H.   12  (1)  b^, 

13(3)ai^ 
avrta,  encompassed,  overcome,  with  tama, 

q.v. 
"avrahana  (avarhana),  tearing  off,  H.  3  a". 
asi,   fang  of  a  snake,  sting   of  an    insect ; 

in  asi-visa,   having  poison   in  its   fang, 

snake,  Th.  2  a'^. 
*asearya-prapta,   struck  with  wonder,  L. 

259  6iii.vi. 

Asadha,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  ai^. 

*asana-kusalena,  with  propriety  in  (choos- 
ing) a  seat,  H.  1  a^^. 

astara,  spreading-out  of  robes,  H.  3  a^^ 

asrava,  piassion,  with  ksma,  L.  3  a^^. 

ahara,    nutriment    (four     kinds    of),    H. 
4(l)a^. 

I 

*iceh-6pavicara,  seduction  by  desire,  H. 

12  (2')  aii, 
Indra,  pr.  n.  of  a  deva,  H.  5  a^^. 


iryapatha, becoming  deportment,  H.l  a",6>^. 

U 

*uddara,  heretical  (1),  Th.  8  b". 

*utksipta  {otksi2>ta)-ea.'ksvLsa,  with  down- 
cast eyes,  H.  1  a",  b^. 

*utksepaniya  {-karma),  (rite  of)  suspension, 
H.'3ai.' 

*uttama-pudgala,  the  best  possible  person, 
H.  6  6iii- 

Uttara-tahadravati  {°bhadra^ada),  pr.  n.  of 
an  asterism,  Th.  9  »-^ii. 

*u[t]trasisyanti,  they  will  be  frightened,  P. 
8  6^^;  u[t]trasta,  frightened,  Th.  6  6ii', 

utpadyamana,  arising,  H.  4  (l)a™,  b\ 

*UtpalaTaktra,  pr.  n.  of  a  king,  Th.  Sa^^b"^. 

utpada,  source,  L.  3  6™. 

utpadayati  {pittam),  he  turns  (his  thoughts) 


to,  Th.  4avii,  jvii;  utpadayisyanti,  P.  8 
ai^ ;  utpadayitavyam,  P.  6  a'-  >i,  9  a". 

utsahamas,  we  exert  ourselves,  L.  260  a™. 

uda-pana,  jslaoe  of  drinking  water,  well, 
H.  8  6^     See  jaroda-pana. 

udara,  great,  grand,  Th.  2  b^. 

udiksaniya,  to  be  gazed  at,  Th.  4  &^. 

udgrhniyat,  he  should  preserve,  P.  1 0  «^  ; 
u[d]grahesyati,  P.  11  a^^;  udgrahes- 
yanti,  P.  10  6"',  1 1  5iii ;  udgrhya,  P.  6 
b'",  16  6ii',  19  Ji;  udgrhita,'  P.  15  h", 
17  ftii,  19  ai;  *udgrlinita,  (fruit)  picked 
up,  H.  3  a^ ;  *u[d]grahetavya,  to  be 
rejected,  P.  1 8  aii ;  udgrhitavya,  to  be 
taken  note  of,  H.  1  6™   ' 

uddiset,  he  should  expound,  exhibit,  Th. 
lOfliv;  uddise,  Th.  26i'i;  uddiseyati, 
Th.  2  ai^  ;  uddiseya,  Th.  2  a™i. 

uddhara,  the  taking-up  of  robes,  H.  3  a^'. 

Tidbhavana,  proclamation,  H.  1 2  (2')  aii, 

upakarana,  expedient,  means,  Th.  7  (2)  a^i. 

*upaceheda,  cutting  off,  with  vrtii,  q.v. 

upajivya,  who  can  be  depended  on,  Th.  46iii. 

upadrava,  affliction,  Th.  2  6i-\ 

upadhi,  ajDpearance,  phenomenal,  H.  7  6i. 

*upamssraya,  residing,  Th.  1  aii. 

*upanisada  (v.l.  nisada,  M.  M.  ed.,  p.  35), 
(the  duration  of)  a  musical  note,  P.  11  b^ ; 
*upanisa,  P.  IGJi'f. 

upapatti,  existence,  see  kdmopapatti,  siMio- 
papatti. 

upapaduka,  effecting,  P.  2  a^ii. 

upatahoga,  use,  Th.  4  a^. 

*upavieara,  seduction,  H.  12  (2')  aii. 

*upasamaimkula,  disposed  to  calmness, 
Th.  8  ai^. 

upasamkkrami,  he  proceeded,  Th.  5  a™^. 

Tipasampada,  initiation  (into  monkhood), 
H.  3  fii'*'-  ■'.  See  ehibMksu°,  jnan&bhisa- 
maya°,  traivdcitva°,  2>rasna°,  vinaya- 
dhara°,  vyakarana°. 

upasthapya,  attending  considerately  (to 
some  one),  H.  1  ai^';  upasthapayitavya, 
H.  1  6^-™.     See  smrtim. 

*upasthita-smrti,  fixed  attention,  H.  1  ai, 

6ii-  iT. 

upadaya,  evincing  (feeling),  H.  2  b"" ; 
L.  254  6iii. 

Tipaya,  expedient,  Th.  7  (l)ai^, 

*upavrtta,  arriving,  Th.  3  a™ 

upasak-6pasika,  male  and  female  lay- 
adherent  of  Buddha,  Th.  10  6ii;   P.  19  6iii 


200 


VOCABULARY  TO 


upeta-kaya,  taken  a  body,  P.  1 3  a",  b^- ". 
ususyanti  {ut-susyanti),  they  dry  up,  Th. 

4  6". 

U 

urdhvam  adhah,  above  and  below,  H.  1  6"". 

B, 

rddhi,  supernatural  power,  Th.  1  tf'  i",  h\ 

E 

*eka-ghana,  solid  (rock),  L.  3  6-"". 

"ek-ahika,  quotidian  (fever),  Th.  IQh^K 

*Elabhadra  (Elapatra),  pr.  n.,  H.  5  6". 

*ehibhiksukataya  {upaamhiyadd),  (initia- 
tion) with  the  formula  '  come  O  monk ', 
H.  3  6". 

O 

okirinsu  {avaki°),  they  besprinkled,  Th.  5  6'. 
oliyet  {avcd°),  he  slackens,  Th.  10  o'". 

Au 

aurasa,  son,  H.  13  (3)  a', 
ausata  (ausadha),  Th.  9  a^.     See  ausadhi. 
ausadhi,  medical   herb,  medicament,   with 
hmyn,  q.v. 

K 

kantaka  ;  see  go-hantaka. 
kad-arya,  miserly,  H.  12  (3)6". 
*kantara  (for  ka°),  difficult  road,  Th.  2  6™. 
karunayati,  he  becomes  compassionate,  Th. 

5  6^i. 

kartu-kama,  desirous  of  doing,  Th.  7  (2)  aS^. 

karma,  karma  or  the  moral  Law  of  Causa- 
tion, Th.  5ai,  7  (l)6vi;  karmani  (pL), 
actions,  P.  11  a^-^. 

karma,  rite ;  see  utksepaniya,  rudra. 

kalaha,  quarrel,  Th.  9  aP'. 

kala,  a  fraction  of  time,  P.  1 1  6i^-  ■<',  16  6'^. 

Kali,  the  Kali  age,  Th.  5  6i". 

Kallnga,  pr.  n.  of  a  country,  P.  9  a'. 

kalusa,  impurity,  Th.  5  6"i. 

kalpa,  (a)  a  period  of  time,  Th.  2  ay,  10a"; 
P.  1 0  a'',  1 1  6i ;  (6)  doctrine,  regulations, 
H.  3  6"i,  see  civara. 

Kasmira,  pr.  n.  of  a  country,  Th.  3  6". 

kasaya,  (moral)  stain,  Th.  8  a"i. 

kaihksa,  doubt,  Th.  2  iT'K 

kama  (at  end  of  compound),  desirous  ;  see 
adhigantu,  anuttrasitu,  kartu. 

kam.a-guna,  satiety,  perfect  enjoyment,  Th. 


6  6"f ;  *k°-gunata,  state  of  perf.  enj.,  Th. 

6  Jviii.  ix. 

*kam-opapatti,  re-ljirth  in  a  state  of  sen- 
suous existence,  H.  4  (2)  5'. 

kaya,  body,  H.  4  (2)  a"',  8  6^^'"" ;  Th.  2  6i"- 
i^,  5  a^\  8  a"-  i",  6''^ ;  P.  1 3  a^'\  6'- ".  See 
dharma-kaya,  rupa-kaya. 

*kay-erLdriya,  body-sense,  Th.  7  (l)6i. 

Kasyapa,  pr.  n.  of  a  Buddhist  monk,  H. 
gjiii.v;   Th.  8a>-iT,  6"i. 

kasaya,  monk's  yellow  robe,  Th.  8  a"-  *"• ", 

6'iT. 

*kimkarana,  punishment  work,  H.  3  a". 
Kinnara,  pr.  n.  of  a  class  of  mythological 

beings,  Th.  2  a>-  "i. 
*kim-antisamsa, punishment  lesson,  H.3a". 
Kirttiya  {Krttikd),  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism, 

Th.  9  a". 
*kirti-sabda-sloka,  verse  of  praise,  H.  10 

(56)  ai". 
Kubera,  pr.  n.  of  the  god  of  wealth,  H. 

*Kumarabhadra,  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  H. 

1 1  6". 
*kumara-bhuta,  royal  prince,  L.  253  ai-i'''-^. 
kumaraka-bhuta,    in    the    condition    of 

youth,  Th.  10  6'". 
Kumbhanda,  pr.  n.  of  a  class  of  mytho- 
logical beings,  H.  5  6'". 
kula-putra,  noble  youth,  and  kula-duhitr, 

noble  maiden,  Th.  7  (2)  a"i,  10  a'- "  ;  P.  10 

fli,  11  ai",  6-",  &c. 
kusala,  good,  proper,  with  asana,  H.  1  a^^ ; 

cdrya,  Th.  6  6"^'" ;  dliarma,  P.  16  a^,  6>. 
ktisala-m.ula  (plur.),  stock  of  merit,  Th.  4 

6' ;  see  akustdaniula. 
kutagara-sala,  hall  of  a  pagoda,  Th.  1  a", 

6™. 
krta-krtya,  having  attained  one's  ideal,  H. 

'id".' 
krt§,laya,  who  has  made  his  abode,  H.  5  ay. 
krti,  poetic  composition,  H.  13  (3)6'^. 
koti-nlyuta,  many  tens  of  millions,  P.  1 1 6"; 

Th.  11  a'''. 
*kot'uhala,  curiosity,  Th.  5  a', 
krama,  astrological  progression,  Th.  9  6''^. 
kramanti,  they  attack,  Th.  2  6"'-  '^. 
*kriyavastu,meansofacquiring,H.4(2)a'^'i. 
*ksam.ati   miilyam.,    equals  in  value,    L. 

254  6". 
*ksayata,  state  of  decay,  Th.  6  6™-  ™i. 
ksanti,    patience,    P.    17  6";    ks°-para- 


ALL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


201 


mita,    perfect   exercise   of  p.,   P.    9  ct> ; 

ks°-vacLiii,  upholding  p.,  P.  9  a^. 
ksina,  extinct,  with  ds'rava,  jdti,  hhava,  q.v. 
ks-ura,  knife  (?),  Th.  9  o" 
ksetra,  sphere,  subject,  with  vyuha,  array, 

P.  6ai,  ISi-f-";  ksetr-aksetra,  what  is 

and  what  is  not  a  theme,  H.  13  (l)a"- 

Kh 

khandi-krtva,  in  broken  pieces  (of  food), 
H.  1  aviii 

*Kliarusta,  pr.  n.  of  a  Eishi,  Th.  9  W-^. 

G 

Gaiiga,   pr.  n.   of  a  river,   Th.  2  a^iu;    p. 

6  aiv.y    7  6v    \q  ^jiii.  iv    14  avi^  Ju    17  jv; 
G°-rajas,  sand  of  G.,  Th.  7  (2)  h^. 

gandha,  smell,  Th.  7(l)6iiv;  p.  2  Jv^  Q  a\ 

9a''i- 
Gandharba,  pr.  n.  of  a  class  of  mythological 

beings,  Th.  2a\  9  tf,   10  6'^;  P.  19  ftiv ; 

with  ksaya,  Th.  6  b^. 
Gandhari,  pr.  n.  of  a  fem.  deity,  Th.  10  6™. 
gambhira,    profound,    Th.    7  (2)  a^,  Jii-  ^'\ 

10  6V 
garbhS,daiia,  impregnation,  Th.  9  a^^, 
gatha,  a   kind  of  verse,  Th.  2   a™,    5   h^\ 

7  (2)6ii;   P.  6  6iv-^  16  6iii,  19  61. 
guna,  excellence, virtue, Th. 2 a'^i,  6  6'>'™i-i'=; 

gu°-dharina,  principles  of  virtue,  Th.  8  a". 
*guhya-marga,  secret  path,  Th.  9  a^. 
grhapati,  householder,  Th.  2  a"-  ^'^-  vi. 
go-kantaka,  difficult  cattle-path,  H.  12  (3) 

aK 
go-dohana,  time  of  milking  cows,  H.  9  a?-^. 
goeara,  object  (of  sense  or  mind),  Th.  7  (2) 

a^,  6ii;  gaueara,  Th.  7  (1)6'^. 
gaurava,  respect,  L.  260 6'''^. 
*grantha-bhava,  bondage,  H.  7  a^. 
graha,  planet,  Th.  9  6'"-  i^. 
grama,  village,  Th.  7  (1)6™  ;  grama-eaura, 

thieves  (living)  in  a  deserted  village,  Th. 

7(1)  6™      See  sunya-grama. 
graha,  (logical)  ])ositing  of  something,  with 

atma,  jiva,  jnnda,  pudgala,  sattva,  q.  v. 

Gh 
ghora,  dreadful,  Th.  2  a™'-  i^. 
gh.osa,  sound  (of  words),  P.  17  6'. 

C 

cakravartin,  emperor,  P.  1 7  a^^. 

caksu,  masc,  eye,  sight,  with  dharma,  Th. 


106ii;  witli  indriya,  anom.  in  calcsvendriya, 

Th.  2  6",  7  (1)  a^i. 
eaksus,  neut.,  id.,  H.  4  (1)  «'" ;  P.  14  «"•  "i; 

with    dharma,   prajhd,    huddha,    mdrhsa, 

q.v.  ;  cakfusman,  seeing  person,  H.  8  6'- 

iv;P.  9  6".' 
*Catuhiataka,  pr.  n.  of  a  hymn,  H.  13  (3)6'f. 
catvara,  square,  H.  1  h™-  ™i. 
*Candra-sTirya-vimala-prabhasa-sri,  pr. 

u.  of  an  Arhat,  L.  ia™-""  (transL). 
*caiidr-flpama,   resembling  the  moon,  H. 

8  flVi^  Jii.  iii. 

carana,  conduct,  L.  259  a'v. 
carl,  moving,  Th.  1 1  a^. 
*earima-kala,  last  time,  Tli.  2  6^. 
carimika,  last  time,  P.  1 1  6i". 
cavitva,  having  left,  L.  259  a". 
caksusa,  comely,  H.  12  (4)6'". 
*ea.tii-dvipika   (dbai°),    four   continental, 

Th.  Il6i-i>-iii. 
catuspadika  (gdthd),  (verse)  consisting  of 

four  parts,  P.  7  6" ;  catuspadi,  id.,  P. 

16  6m;  catuspada,  id.,  P.' 5  6™-'". 
earya,  conduct,  with  husala,  Th.  6  5""" 
citta,  mind,  thoughts,  H.   1  a",  6"-  i"^ ;  Th. 

2  6",    4ai-T.vi^  jvi^    7  (2)  a'";    L.  3  ai^  ; 

P.  2  a",  6  ai-ii,  9  a",  14  6^";  citta-dhara, 

flow  of  thoughts,  P.  1 4  V"-  •? ;  eittdtpada, 

see  hodlii ;  citt6tpadika,  see  prathaina. 
Citra,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a™. 
*eintikata,  the  way  of  thinking,  Th.  10  a'^. 
*Cimba,  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  H.  5  6\ 
ciyara,  monk's  robes,  H.  3  6"',  with  haljia, 

q.v. 
*cuti[ka],  small,  Th.  11  tf^. 
eetas,  mind,  L.  3  a^,  with  vimukti,  q.v. 
caitya,  shrine,  P.    11  am;    *c°-bhTita,  P. 

6  6". 
*codana-vastu,    cause    of  accusation,   H. 

4  (2)  a". 
caura,  thief;  see  grdma. 

Ch 

chanda,  lust,  desire,  H.  4  (1)6", 

chaya,  shadow,  Th.  9  6i. 

chid,  severed,   H.  7  «"•  m-  '^ ;  with  grantha- 

bhava,  sariiyojana,  q.  v. 
chidra,  hole,  cavity,  H.  13(1)6'^. 


Jagaiiinatha,  lord  of  the  world,  epithet  of 
Buddha,  H.  13  (3)  a^. 


202 


VOCABULAEY   TO 


jangama    (lit.    moving    being),    man,    H. 

13(l)a"i. 
*janapada-pradesa,  part  of  a  country,  Th. 

1  ai,  6". 
*jara-iiiaran-abhiliita,  afBicted   witli    old 

age  and  death,  Tli.  5  b^^. 
*jar-6da-pana,  old  disused  well,  H.  8  &'. 
jarayu-ja,  viviparous,  P.  2  a'*''. 
*jaladayate,    it   acts   as   a   laincloud,    H. 

12  (2')  6^. 
jati,  birth,  re-hiith,  with  Jcslna,  L.  3  b^^;  with 

iato,  P.  9  a^^. 
jatu,  certainly,  Th.  2  a^  Si'-"'. 
*janiya,  knowing,  Th.  11  a'. 
jighamsu,  revengeful,  H.  12  (3)  a'". 
Jina,    conqueror,    epithet   of   Buddha,    Th. 

7(2)&vi(transl.). 
Jista  (Jijestlia),  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th. 

9  a™. 
jihma,  unsuccessful,  defeated,  Th.  2  ft". 
*jiliv-endriya,  sense  of  the  tongue,  taste, 

Th.  7(l)6i. 
jiva,  living  being,  in  *jiva-graha,  F.  17  a^ ; 

*ji¥a-drsti,  P.  19  ai ;  *jiva-drstikaj  P.  10 

6^i;  jiva-samjna,  P.  2  6i^  8  ftii-'i",  9  fflii-^. 
*jestha-putra,  eldest  son,  Th.  2  6^. 
jnana,  knowledge,  Th.  6  b™^,  8  fti,  10  ay-  ^'i ; 

P.86t";*jnan-abhisamaya,comprehension 

of  true  knowledge,  H.  3  h"^ ;  *jnan-aloka, 

having  the  light  of  knowledge,  H.  12  (1)  6^. 
*Jyoti-surya-gandha-obhasa-sri,   pr.    n. 

of  an  Arhat,  Th.  5  ai'i-'^",  b^\ 

T 

*tathata,  the  truth  of  things,  in  ta°-vadin, 
P.  9  6''^.     Seo  hhuta-tathata. 

*tatliatTa,  same  as  hhuta-tathata,  q.  v.,  Th. 
2  a^». 

Tathagata,  lit.  so-come,  epithet  of  Buddha, 
P.  2  a"i,  7  0"  T^  ii^ii,  ■  Tathagata-garbha, 
the  womb  of  T.,  Th.  3  «'■  ";  Tathagata- 
ayupramana-nirdesa,  pr.  n.  of  a  chapter, 
Th.  11  aii-iv. 

tapas,  asceticism,  Th.  8  a^,  &'. 

tama  (Jamas),  in  *tania-sph.uta,  touched  by 
darkness,  Th.  5  h^'^ ;  *tam-aTrta,  over- 
come with  gloom,  Th.  6  a^. 

taratu,  may  it  be  effective  as  protection, 
Th.  10  6™i. 

taraka,  star,  P.  19  &i'. 

timira,  complete  blindness  (third  stage  of 
cataract),  P.  19  6". 


*tiryag-yom-gata,  brute  animal,  Th.  46^-^. 
tira,  bank  (of  a  river),  Th.  10  J^i". 
tirtha,  bathing  ghat,  place  of  pilgrimage, 

H.  13(l)aiii;  see  j'unya. 
turya  (turyaysvara,  sound  of  music,  Th. 

6  Ji^'. 
*tr-apaya,  three  places  of  suffering,  Th.  5  b^. 
trpyate,  is  satisfied,  Th.  3  a^^-^. 
trsna,  desire,  H.  4  (1)  a"^ii,  6*;  trsna-ksaya- 

rata,   delighting    in   the   rooting  out    of 

desires,  L.  3  b^. 
*trsahasra,  three  thousand,  L.  253  &•,  254 

fiii ;  P.  16  6i,  18  o'' ;  with  mahasahasra,  q.v. 
teja  {tejas),  power,  Th.  2  b^K 
tejas,  fire,  in  tejo-dhatu,  element  of  fire, 

H.  4(l)ffl^. 
tomara,  lance,  Th.  6  b^. 
trasa,  terr.ir,  Th.  2  b™-K 
*trai-vaeitva     {upasampadd),     (initiation) 

upon  the  threefold  declaration  (of  taking 

refuge),  li.  3  b^K 
*trai-vidya,  lit.  threefold  science, brahmanic 

theology,  H.  7  b"\ 

D 

damsa-masaka,  stinging  fly,  Th.  6  a^^,  6". 
*daksina-disa,    southern    quarter ;     da°- 

patha,  id.,  Th.  3  5i,  9  6*. 
*daksina-patliaka,  southern,  Th.  3  6". 
dagdiia,  burnt,  Th.  8  a*-'. 
danda-sikya,  ttaif  and  string,  H.  2  b^^- " . 
Dadhimukha,  pr.  n.  of  a  Yaksha,  H.  5  6'. 
dama,  temperance,  Th.  4  a™. 
damya,  young  unbroken  bull,  L.  259  a^K 
darsana,  insight,  Th.  8  b'-. 
dana,  gift,  charity,  H.  4  (1)  6^  ;  Th.  4  a™  ; 

"p.    2  &v- "s'i,    6  b"\    16  6",    17  6^;    with 

'pnrityaj,  P.  9  6'' ,  lOfir^;  dana-parityaga, 

giving  away  of  gifts,  P.  9  6". 
danamaya,  won  by  liberality,  H.  4  (2)  a^'. 
dayakatas,  on  the  giver's  side,  H.  4(1)  h". 
divya,  celestial,  Th.  11  b^'^-,    with  caJcsiis, 

heavenly  vision,  P.  14  a"-'". 
Dipamkara,   pr.  n.   of  a  former  Buddha, 

P.  11  b\  13  ai. 
duhkha-sagara,  ocean  of  pain,  Th.  7  (2)  b". 
durgati,  misfortune,  Th.  2  6"i. 
durbhiksa,  famine,  H.  10  (57)6*;  °bhiksa, 

Th.  2  6™. 
duskuliaka,  apathetic,  H.  12  (4)0". 
*dustul-apatti,  grave  offence,  H.  Saiii. 
duhi'tr,    daughter;     see    kula,    ndgardja; 


ALL  SANSKEIT  TEXTS 


208 


*d.uhitr-niatrik:a,  woman  of  the  aspect 
of  a  daughter,  H.  16™;  *du°-samjna, 
name  of  'daughter',  H.  1  6™. 

dusya-yugma,  double-piece  of  cloth,  Th. 
1 1  &i^,  tranel. 

*du-stMta,  badly  standing  on  or  observing, 
Th.  8  &v. 

*Drdhamati,  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  Th.  10  a", 

drstl,  drstika,  belief  in,  positing  of;  the 
same  as  graha,  q.  v.  ;  see  atma,  jiva,  pud- 
gala,  sattva. 

deva,  a  deva,  godling,  H.  4  (2)  6"-  i"  ;  Th. 
2  ai- ",  Ji'>'-  ^ ;  in  the  ]ihrase  sa-deva- 
manusya,  &o.,  P.  11  a*i,  19  6^'^;  with 
ksaya,  Th.  6  &is ;  with  guru,  Th.  9  6™- 

devata,  tutelary  deity,  Th.  3  b^^. 

*devati,  divinity,  Th.  9  a*. 

dohana,  milking,  H.  9  a"  ;  see  go-doliana. 

*daTiratmya,  misery,  H.  1 3  (3)  «'. 

*daurvbarnnika,  bad  mark,  Th.  2  6"', 

dvara  (dbara),  doorway,  H.  1  6™i;  dvara- 
sala,  porch  before  door,  H.  1  h^™. 

dvitiyaka,  fever  of  every  other  day,Th.  1 0  h™^ 

dvipika  (dbi°),  continent,  Th.  11  Ji-iii- 

dvesa,  hatred,  H.  4(1)6". 

*dvaipika  (dbai°),  continental,  Th.  116". 

Dh 

dhana,  treasure  ;  see  aapta-dhana. 

Dhanistha,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a^. 

dharma  (in  Mahayanist  ontology),  norm  of 
existence  :  (1)  the  unconditioned,  absolute, 
noumenal,  (sing.)  Th.  4  6*,  (plur.)  Th.  2  a^; 
with  atmaka,  representing  the  Absolute, 
Th.  7  (2)  b'^ ;  ahara,  the  Absolute  as  one's 
food,  Th.  3  a'^;  kaya,  noumenal  body  (one 
of  the  trikdya  and  opp.  rupakdya,  q.  v.), 
H.  12  (4)rti-i";  Th.  7  (2)  a';  caksus,  the 
eye  to  I'ecognize  the  noumenal,  Th.  10 
6" ;  P.  14  ci'^ ;  dhdtu,  the  noumenal  world, 
the  Absolute,  Th.  7  (2)  6« ;  ^abda,  word 
expressive  of  the  noumenal,  Th.  2  a^. 
— (2)  the  conditioned,  particular,  pheno- 
menal ;  a  thing,  an  object;  (sing.)  P.  7  a"', 
13  aiii-i',  16a"-^,  17  6i'<',  (plur.)  P.  13a^ 
6vi,  16  flvi,  6i;  L.  253  ai",  3  o-"";  with 
sarhjoid,  notion  of  phenomenal  things,  P. 
igai^'^. 

dharma  (in  Buddhist  ethics),  (1)  doctrine, 
principle,  duty, Th.  7  (l)a"i-iv;  P.  9  6iv  10 
b^i,  1 5  6i" ;  (technical  term  for),  H.  4  (1)  a^ ; 
with  dvarana,  hindrance,  Th.  8  a^ ;  pada, 


category,  H.  4  (l)a"-— (2)  body  of  Bud- 
dhist principles  (disciplinary  and  doc- 
trinal), Budclhist  Law,  Norm,  Eule ;  with 
abhisamaya,  understanding,  Th.  116'^; 
ksaya,  loss,  Th.  6  6™' ;  caAra, wheel,  L.  260 
a^^;  (i«.s'cma, exposition,  P.  15  6*^;  parydya, 
sermon,  L.  260  ai",  6"-  *■ "",  2  a^  (transl); 
P.  7  6",  8  aT.  Ti,  10  6i-";  bhanaka, 
preacher,  L.  259  a"';  megha,  cloud,  Th.  3 
6'-";  vindsa,  destruction,  P.  17  6'^- ■^. 

dharma,  condition,  practice,  order,  H.  10 
(56)  ai»-^  b\  (57)  a",  12  (4)6",  13(1) 
6"',  13  (2)  flV;  L.  3  a™,  6";  Th.  2  6^, 
5  6^i,  6  6™. 

dhatu,  condition,  state,  Th.  3  6^ ;  relic,  Th. 
7(2)6^1;  element,  H.  4(l)a-f;  Th.  4a"; 
system,  P.  18  6'^.  See  dharma,  nirvana, 
loka. 

dharani,  cliarni,  Th.  1 1  a^. 

dhavati,  it  makes  for,  Th.  7  (1)  6'"  ; 
dhavate,  Th.  7  (1)6^. 

*dhudi  (Skr.  dhuli),  dust,  Th.  6  a^^\ 

*Dhrtirastra,  pr.  n.  of  a  Lokapala,  H.  5  a^^. 

dhyana,  mystic  meditation,  Th.  8  6". 

dhvaja,  banner,  Th.  8  a"-  v  ^,i-iv 

dhvasta,  passing  away  (of  the  rains),  Th,  3 
a™. 

N 

naksatra,  lunar  asterism,  Th.  9  6"-i^. 

Naksatra-raja-samkiisumita,  pr.  n.  of  a 
person,  L.  2  a". 

nadi-tira,  bank  of  river,  Th.  1 0  6™! ;  nadi- 
durga,  impassable  hole  in  a  river,  H.  86'. 

*Nandiriitaala  (?),  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  P.  196v. 

naya,  argument,  Th.  7  (l)ai\ 

*nayuta,  myriad,  Th.  11  a^' ;  L.  259  a",  260 
a^,  2  0";  for  niyuta,  q.v. 

nara,  man,  Th.  7  (l)6i";  *nara-kumjara, 
eminent  man,  Th.  3  b^''. 

navaka,  new  moon,  H.  8  a^^,  6". 

naga,  a  class  of  mythological  beings,  ser- 
pents, H.  6  fli" ;  Th.  2  a'- ",  b"^^-^;  *naga- 
raja-duhitr,  daughter  of  a  king  of  them, 
L.  253  6i\  254  6i-"i--", 

nada,  noise,  Th.  10  6™ 

nana-bhava,  of  various  conditions,  P.  14  6iv; 
nana-varna,  of  various  colours,  Th.  3  6^- 

*nasthika,  (fruit)  without  stones  (or  seed), 
H.  3  ayK 

nihsattva,  without  being,  P.  13  61"^,  16  a\ 

nikasa,  touchstone,  H.  1 2  (2')  a". 

nigacchati,  he  falls  into,  'Th.  8  a'. 


204 


VOCABULAKY  TO 


*Nigrantha  (for  nirgr°),  pr.  n.  of  a  sect,  H. 

nidana,  cause  of  existence,  P.  1 5  a"-  "i. 

nidhana,  defect,  absence,  Th.  7  (2)  b^^. 

Uidhana,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a"^. 

nimantrana,  invitation,  H.  1 2  (3)  a^. 

nimitta,  omen,  sign,  H.  l&fiii;  Th.  3 a";  nim° 
saiiijna,  P.  2  6"". 

niyama,  course  of  asceticism,  Th.  8  b^. 

niyuta,  myriad,  P.  11  6"  ;  see  nayuta. 

niraya,  hell,  Th.  2  b^^. 

nirasrava,  unswayed  by  the  action  of  the 
senses,  H.  7  a". 

nirupadana,  without  attachment  to  life, 
H.  7a^. 

nirodh-amidarsin,  ijerceiving  annihila- 
tion, L.  3  6™. 

nirjiva,  without  life,  P.  ISJi^;  nirjivatva, 
P.  16av 

*nirdisamana,  being  expounded,  Th.  1 0  a™. 
nirdista,  expounded,  Th.  1 1  b''. 
nirdesa,  exposition,  Th.  11  c/'ii's'. 
nirnnana-karana,  making  no  distinction, 

Th.  3  6v 
nirbhasa,  radiance,  Th.  11  a}^. 
nirmana-rati,  enjoying  extra  pleasures  of 

their  own  devising,  H.  4  (2)  i". 
nirvana-dhatu,  state  of  Nirvana,  P.  2  6". 
nirwisa  (mrvb°),  innocuous,  Th.  2  a^^. 
*nisrta,  seated  on,  Th.  1 1  6™. 
nisadya,  session  of  monks,  H.  1  a^'^. 
nisana  (for  nisanna),  seated,  Th.  1 1  6^ii. 
nisidati,  he  sits,  P.  liaP^;  nisiditavya, 

H.  1  a\ 
*niskasaya,  free  from  moral  stain,  Th.  8 

aP-  iii". 
*niskamksa,  free  from  doubt,  H.  6  6". 
*nispudgala,  withoutindi  viduality,  P.  1 3  b^^. 
nila  gavah,  Nilgais,  Th.  3  b'^. 
*Nesala(1),  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  P.  19  6^. 
nairatma,    without   self,   P.   13  6''*;    with 

dharma,  P.  16a^,  17  6'". 
*naivasika,  devouring  spirit,  H.  9a""i. 


pakva,  cooked  food,  H.  3  a\ 

paksa,  party  of,  partisan,  ia  paksa- 
vipaksa-sthita,  being  in  opposition  to 
the  partisans,  and  paks-anukula,  well- 
disposed  towards  partisans,  Th.  8  6''". 

paeanti,  they  mature,  Th.  4  a". 


panca-dasama,  fifteenth, Til.  llaii;  panca- 

sata,  five  hundred  (monks),  H.  7  a". 
pancadasi,  fifteenth  day,  H.  7  a". 
*pancaka-sada,  five  kinds  of  decay,  Th.  5  a^^. 
*paficaina-samglia,  congregation  of   five, 

H.  3  J™. 
pandita,  savant,  Th.  6  6™. 
padarii   karita,   made  to  set  foot,   H.   12 

(2')  aK 
padaka,  familiar  with  the  words  (of  holy 

writ),  H.  6  bK 
paramanu,  atom,  Th.  11  avi.vii.viii^  ju.iii.iv; 

p°-saihcaya,  P.  18a^\  Ji.iiiii. 
*paravatta,  obedience,  H.  12  (2')  a*. 
*parasamcetana,  consciousness  of  others, 

H.  4  (1)6™. 
parikirtana,  laudatory  announcement,  with 

guna,  Th.  2  «■",  with  nama,  Th.  2  a*^. 
'parikirtayisyam    (Pali    future),    I    shall 

chant  the  praises,  Th.  2  a'^™. 
*parigrahetavya,  to  be  received,  P.  18  a". 
parityajati,  with  *ddnam,  he  gives  away, 

distributes,    P.    9  6'^;    parityajya    and 

parityajet,  ■wiVa  parity  again,  P.  9  6",  10 

fli^-'s',  19  a'". 
*parityaga,  giving  away,  with  ddna,  q.  v. 

See  parityajati. 
parinirmita,  created,  H.  4  (2)  Ji". 
parinirvapayisye,  I  shall  cause  to  attain 

Nirvana,  P.  13  6";  parinirvapita,  P.  2  6". 
parinirvrta,  wholly  extinct,  L.  260  a™,  6''". 
parinispatti,  actualness,  existence  in  fact, 

P.  15a"~". 
*parindaiia,  favour,  P.  2  a}^. 
*parindita,  favoured,  P.  2  a"-  ™. 
*paripak-endriya,  having  matured  senses, 

Th.  4  6". 
"^paripacaka,  maturing,  Th.  4  6"'. 
paribhava,  contemptuousness,  H.  10 (66) a', 

6"i-  iT. 
paribhuta,  overcome,    P.   1 1  a'^-  '^ ;    pari- 

bhiitata,  P.  1 1  a^i. 
paribhoga,  enjoyment,  Th.  4  a^. 
parimocita,  emancipated,  P.  16  6^1. 
parivarta,  chapter,  Th.  7  (1)  a^,  7  (2)  a" ; 

(astrological)  revolution,  Th.  9  b^. 
pariyartati,  it  turns  round,  Th.  9  U. 
parivasa,  probation,  H.  3  a'. 
parisuddha,  perfectly  pure,  H.  4  (2)  a™-!'^-''. 
parisad,  community,  H.  6  6^^ :  see  parsa. 
pariskara,  requisite  of  monk,  H.  3  a"". 
*paryavapnuyat,  he  should  study,  P.  1 0  6*, 


ALL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


205 


19  5';  paryavapayati,  P.  11  a";  parya- 
vapsyanti,   P.   10  b™,   11    6''^;  parya- 
vaptuih,  P.  llai. 
paryaya,  sermon,  exposition;   see  dharma. 
parsa  {parsad),  congregation,  Th.  9  h" ;  see 

parisad. 
paseat-purah,  behind  and  before,  H.  1  6". 
*pasciaiika,  last,  final,  P.  1 1  6"i. 
papa,  inauspicious,  Tli.  6  ai^ ;  with  svara, 

Th.  6  6ii. 
papika  drsti,  false  doctrine,  H.  3  d^. 
paraga,   with    *guna,  past   master   in   all 

virtues,  Th.  9  6™ 
paramita,  perfect  exercise  (of  virtue),  P. 
8  h^-  ■rf  ;    with    ksanti,  prajna,    q.v.     See 
bhumi. 
paripuri,  fullness,  Th.  4  a^", 
pinda,  morsel,  as  almsfood ;  with  carika- 
vrtta,   rule    about    collecting,  H.  1  6™ ; 
with  pata-vrtta,  rule  concerning  alms- 
food,  H.  1  fci-'iii. 
pinda,  matter,  with  graha,  P.  18  6^-^. 
*pitrjnata,  honouring    one's  father,  H.  10 

(56)  b^. 
*punya-kriya-vastu,    way   of   acquiring 
religious    merit,    H.   4  (2)  a™ ;    punya- 
tirtha,  place  of  pilgrimage  for  acquiring 
religious  merit,  H.  13  (l)ai";    punya- 
skaudha,    store    of    religious    merit,    P. 
6  6^,    1 0  aiii,  6iv- "^,    llji^-'",    15ail-iii'i^ 
16b^\  18  a", 
pudgala,   individual,  person,  H.  4  (2)  a^^. 
6  6"i,   13  {l)b^'';  with  *  graha,  P.  17  a* ; 
drsti,  P.  19ai;  *drstika,  P.  10  6^;  *samjna, 
P.  2  b^^,  8  6"-  i",  9  a"-  '''■  ^. 
Punarbasi    {j)unarvasu),    jjr.    n.    of    an 

asterism,  Th.  9  a™. 
*purasthapitTa,  having  set  in  front,  Th. 

2  6^. 
puranaka,  old,  Th.  2  6i^. 
purusa-damya,    unbroken-bull-like    man, 

L.  259  a". 
piiskara,  (plant)  growing  in  a  pond,  H.  3 

a< 
*pTitimukti,  foul  discharge  (of  the  body), 

H.  13(2)ai. 
PHrva-asada  {°dha),  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism, 

Th.  9  a^.  "        ' 
*purva-carya,  previous  course  (of  life),  L. 

260  6vi. 
*piirva-jaiimika  {karma),  (acts)  done   in 
a  previous  existence,  P.  1 1  a"^-  ". 


Purva-phalguni,   pr.   n.   of   an    asterism, 

Th.  9a^.' 
*Purva-bhadravati,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism, 

Th.  9  aK 
purva-yoga,  old  time  story,  Th.  5  a". 
prthag-jana,    common    people,   P.    17  a", 

19  aK 
prthivi-pradesa,  part  of  the  earth,  P.  6  b^. 

11  aii;  prthivi-rajas,  dust  of  the  earth, 

P.  7  «vi,  bi, 
paurusa,  semen  virile,  Th.  3  a". 
prakrti,  class,  H.  12(3)6i. 
pracura,  effective,  Th.  9  a"', 
prajanami,  I  know,  P.  14  U^  ;  prajanitu- 

kama,  desirous  of  knowing,  Th.  7  (2)  a^, 

prajna,  wisdom,  H.  4  (l)ai";  Th.  S  ¥  ; 
prajna-caksus,  eye  to  recognize  wisdom, 
P.  14  a™-  i^  ;  prajna-paramita,  perfect 
exercise  of  wisdom,  P.  7  a™- *'',  16  6", 
19  6^;  *prajna-viniukti,  emancipation 
of  intellect,  L.  3  a''. 

Prajnakuta,  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  L.  253  a^^-^, 

254  6",  ' 
pranidhana,  vow,  L.  260  6^. 

*pratigrh.itavya,  to  be  received,  H.  1  6^-  "  ; 
*pratigrahetavya,  P.  2  a"-  ', 

pratinihsarga,  renunciation,  L.  3  6™. 

pratipatya  {°2)adya),  practising,  Th.  8  a". 

pratipadyeya,  he  should  possess,  Th.  2  a™. 

pratibaddha,  entangled,  Th.  11  a'^,  U. 

pratibimbayet,  one  may  compare,  H. 
13(1)6^. 

pratibodhita,  proficient,  Th.  3  a". 

pratibhana,  utterance,  Th.  2  «■"  ;  °bhana- 
vanto,  eloquent,  Th.  2  6"'. 

*pratilabh.ati(parasm.),he  obtains, Th.  2  a^; 
'pratilabhitva,  having  attained,  Th.  2 
a™;  pratilabheta,  P.  17  6";  prati- 
labdha,  Th.  2  av. 

pratilambha,  re-obtainment,  H.  4  (1)  6" 

pratilabha,  obtainment,  Th.  1 1  a'i-  ™. 

*prativitarka,  thoughts  in  mind,  L.  259  a^. 

pratisthihe  (Skr.  pratitisthet),  he  relies  on, 
P.  2"6vi;  *pratisthihitva,  P.  2  6v  ;  pra- 
tisthita,  firmly  standing  on,  P.  2  &■",  6  a*, 
9  a^,  6i- " ;  L.  3  a*.     See  rupa. 

pratisevate,  he  provides  himself  with,  H. 
4  (1)  aK 

pratltya-samutpada,  chain  of  causation, 
Th.  8  5". 

pratisena  (?),  with  reverence,  H.  1  ai". 


206 


VOCABULAKY  TO 


pratyaksa-jnana,     manifest     Icnowledge, 

Th.  lo'a^-^. 
pratyaya,  doctrine,  Th.  5  a^ ;  ''pratyaya- 

sambhava,  rise  of  consciousness,  Tli.  7  (1) 

pratyasrausit,  lie  listened,  P.  2  a''. 
pratyatmam   nirvati,   he  is  individually 

extinguished,  L.  3  b^^. 
*pratyarthika,  adversary,  Th.  2  a^. 
pratyutthana,  rising  from  seat  to  receive 

any  one,  H.  10  (56)  6"- ^ 
'pratyutpanna-buddha,  realized  Buddha, 

Th.  4  ai-",  7  (2)  a^'--^;   P.  14  6". 
pratyudgamana,  advancing  to  meet  any 

one,  H.  10  (56)  a". 
*pratyupast]iahe    (Skr.    pratyupatisthet), 

he  should  rely  on,  P.  19  a^^. 
pratyeka-buddha,  self-contained  Buddha, 

Th.  3  If. 
prathama-cittdtpadika,  one  in  whom  the 

first  thought  (of  reaching  Buddliahood)  has 

sprung  up,  Th.  4  a"^,  6^. 
pradaksini-karaniya,  to  he  respectfully 

circumambulated,  P.  11  a". 
*pradusta-eitta,  having  a  dejiraved  mind, 

Th.  2'&li. 
prapatinsu,  they  fell,  Th.  11  6^. 
prabhavita,  strong,  Th.  3  a". 
*prabhatayam  (fem.),  at  daybreak,  P.  9  b^. 
*prabhasa-kara,  causing  eulightenmtnt,  H. 

6  6". 
prabh.onti(°6AaiYMi<i),  they  are  able,  Th .  2  U^. 
pramana,  duration  (of  life),  Th.  11  a?^-^'^. 
pralapa,  talk,  H.  13  (2)  6".     See  asat. 
pravartayinsu,  they  moved  forward,  Th. 

1 1  fti^. 
pravada,  utterance,  Th.  2  a^. 
*pravarana,  the  Pravarana  ceremony,  with 

sutra,   pr.   n.   of  a  text,   H.   7  h"^  ;    with 

sthdpcHia,  inhibition  of,  H.  3  a\ 
praviveka,  solitude,  L.  3  b'^K 
pravrajita,  who  has  abandoned  the  world, 

Th.  8  a\ 
prasamsita,  praised,  Th.  2  b^. 
prasanta,  calm,  Th.  4  b™. 
prasna,  question,   H.  4  (1)  6™  ;    prasna- 

vyakarana,  explanation  of  queries,  B. 

3  6".     See  upasampada. 
*Prasada-pratibh6dbhava,    pr.   n.    of   a 

Stotra,  H.  13(l)ai. 
prasthapana,  spreading,  H.  3  a". 
pranjali-krtva,  with  folded  hands,  Th.  96". 


pranavati,  living  (?),  Th.  9  aP-. 
pradurbhavinsu,  they  appeared,  Th.  1 1 6*^. 
*pranta-sayana,  who  lodges  in  the  outskirts, 

H.  6  a™. 
pramuneat,  he  sheds,  P.  8  a*. 
*pramoda,  gladness,  Th.  6  b^^. 
*pravarta,    being  in  progress,    Th.    2  a", 

&ii.  iv.  V.  vii.  viii;  pravartayanta,  Th.  2  6'"". 
prasa,  arrows,  Th.  6  6^. 
prasadika,  agreeable,  H.  1  a",  6iv 
priya-vadita,  affability,  H.  4  (1)6^. 
prdtsahita,  encouraged,  Th.  9  5". 

Ph 

Phalguni,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a^^. 
B 

*badisa  {badisa),  hook,  Th.  8  6^, 

bala-kaya,  bodyguard,  Th.  5  a^". 

badhitum,  to  harass,  Th.  2  6'^. 

*biinba-karana,  making  images  (of  Tatha- 
gata),  H.  10'(56)ai-5'. 

bisaraa  (w'samai,  diverse,  particular,  P.  16 
«"*'.     See  sama. 

Buddha,  pr.  n.  (plur.),  H.  13(3)65"; 
Th.  2  a"-  iii,  6^  7  (2)  a"-  v  jii ;  *buddha- 
koti-niyuta,  myriads  of  B.,  P.  11  6"; 
buddha-gocara,  perception  of  B.,  Th. 
7  (2)  «v ;  buddha-caksus,  eye  of  B.,  P.  14 
a^;  buddha-dharma,  law  of  B.,  H.  12 
(4)  6",  13  (1)  6i^;  Th.  2  a'^  ;  *buddlia- 
stotra,  hymn  on  B.,  H.  13  (2)  61". 

bodha,  insight  into  the  Absolute,  Th.  2  6"; 
*bodharthika,  aiming  at  such  insight, 
Th.  10  a". 

bodhi,  knowledge  of  the  Absolute,  Th.  7  (2) 
a},  10  6^;  bodhi-citt6pada,  fostering 
a  mind  for  such  knowledge,  H.  10  (56) 
a"i;  bodhitraya,  threefold  such  know- 
ledge, Th.  10  6'. 

bodhicarya,  bodhisattvaship,  Th.  4  6' ;  see 
bodhisattva-caryd. 

bodhisattva,  a  Mahayanist  monk,  L.  260 
av.  vi ;  Th.  2  «ii~"i,  3  6"-  iv.  v,  i  j  avix, 
6' ;  P.  2  fliii,  6iii,  9  6ii,  &c. ;  bodhisattva- 
carya,  course  of  a  bodhisattva,  L.  259  a^ ; 
*bodhisattva-yana,  id.,  P.  2  ai',  1 7  b^^, 
19  a™.     See  Srdvaka. 

Brahma,  pr.  n.  of  a  god,  Th.  2  a}-  iii,  10  b™^; 
with  vihdra,  perfect  state,  Th.  8  6" ;  with 
stJiana,  rank  of  Brahma,  L.  254  a^. 

*brahmanyata,  living  as  a  brahman,  H.  10 
(56)  6'.  ■ 


ALL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


207 


bhakta,  food ;  in  bhakta-visarjana,  de- 
clining of  fcod,  H.  1  a"-  v ;  *bhakta- 
vrtta,  rule  about  eating  food,  H.  1  ai^, 

*bhagini-inatrika,  woman  of  the  aspect  of 
a  sister,  H.  16";  bhagini-saihjna,  name 
of  '  sister ',  H.  1  6"-  "<'". 

*bhani,  I  say,  for  hhnne,  Th.  5  &"•  ^. 

'"Bhadra,  pr.  n.  of  a  world  system,  L. 
259  a^i-^ii. 

'^Bh.adravati,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a*. 

bhaya,  alarm,  danger,  H.  4  (1)  &" ;  Th.  2  rf^, 

bhayanaka,  terrifying,  Th.  2  a^, 
bhava,  existence ;  with  ksina,  extinct,  H. 
7  «™  ;    *bh.avatibhava,  continued  exis- 
tence, H.  4(1)6*. 
bhava,     nature,    condition  ;     with     dtma, 

asecanaka,  nana,  q.v.     See  stri. 
bhavana,  impregnation,  Th.  3  a**. 
*bhasiyaniaria,  being  spoken,  Th.  1 1  a**'. 
bhiksu,    monk,    H.    4(1)  a™-  ;  *bhiksu- 
pakva,  food  cooked  at  the  wish  of  a  monk, 
H.  3  av. ;  bhiksTini,  nun,  H.  4  (1)  a™. 
'bhuksa,  hunger,'  Th.  6  J"*. 
bhujaga,  serpent,  Th.  5  6™. 
bhuta,  being,  existence  ;  *bhuta-tatliata, 
true  nature  of  being,   P.   13  «** ;  bhuta- 
vadin,  positing  existence,  P.  9  6"';  bhiita- 
sariajna,  concept  of  being,  P.  8  a'^. 
bhuta,  proper,  Th.  3  6^. 
bhumi,  stage,  state;  with  avaivartika,  q.v.; 
*paraniita-bhTimi,  stage  of  the  jDerfect 
exercise  of  virtue,  Th.  4  6". 
bhumi,  earth,  ground ;  with  bhdga,  a  part 

of,  L.  3  aK 
Bhrscika  (Skr.  vrscika),   pr.  n.  of  an  as- 
terism, Th.  9  6".' 
bhramara,  bee,  Th.  3  a*^. 


M 


maksika,  fly,  Th.  6  a", 

Manjusri,    pr.    n.    of    a   bodhisattva,    L. 

253oi-i''-";  Th.  10  6*". 
mani-ratna,    excellent  jewel,   L.    254  6»; 

Th.  116^. 
*madhyahnayate^  it  acts   as  midday,  H. 

12(2')6vi. 
madhyanta-nidhana,  wanting  middle  and 

end,  Th.  7  (2)  6*^ 


manas,  mind,   thought,   H.   4  (2)  a"' ;    Th. 

4  a™ ;  manasi  -  kara,  contemplation, 
mental  vision,  Th.  4  o*  "■  ™  ;  manasi- 
kuru,  imp.,  comtemplate,  P.  2  a". 

mantra-pada,  words  of  a  charm,  Th.  10  6"" 
Mandarava,  pr.  n.  of  celestial  coral-tree, 

Th.  11  6vi. 
mar  ana,  death,  Th.  5  6*^.     Hue  jara. 
*M[aru-m.ara,  pr.  n.,  Marut  and  Mara,  Th. 

5  6\ 

*masaka,  mosc[uito,  Th.  6  a*^,  6"  ;  *masaka- 
m.utra,  urine  of  mosquito,  Th.  3  a*^-^-", 

masi,  ink,  P.  18  an 

maharddhin,  gifted  with  gieat  magic 
power,  L.  254  6^". 

mahallaka,  aged  monk,  H.  2  6**- *"■"". 

mahakaruna,  great  comisassion,  H.  12  (2"), 

Mahakarna,  pi.  n.  of  a  Yaksha,  H.  5  a^. 
mahakaya,  with  a  large  body,  P.  13  b\ 
*mahadundubhi,  large  drum,  Th.  11  6*^, 
*mahadevata,  ISIahadevi,  Tli.  7  (2)  a**-  *". 
Mahaparinirvana,  great  decease,  name  of 

a  Sutra,  Th.  3  5*. 
mahapurusa,  great  personality,  P.   7  6*"- 

iv.v, 
mahaprthivi,  the  great  earth,  Th.  3  a"-  ^^ 
Mahaprajapati,  pr.  n.  of  a  nun,  L.  250  6*. 
mahabhaya,  great  danger',  Th.  2  a*'^. 
mahabhoga,  large  means,  H.  10  (57)6*i-'^. 
Mahayana,  great  vehicle,  L.  253  a**;  with 

guna,  L.  253  a*** ;  with  sutra,  Th.  3  6***- 
maharaja,  great  king,  Th.  2  a*-  ***- 
Mahavana,  pr.  n.  of  a  monastic  settlement, 

Th.  1  a*i,  6***. 
*mahaTarsa,  great  rain,  Th.  1 1  6^*. 
*mahavimana,  great  chariot  (of  the  sun), 

Th.  4  6***. 
m.ahasravaka,    great  disciple  of  Buddha, 

Th.  10  6*^.     See  srdvaka. 
mahasattva,  great  being  (epithet  of  bodhi- 
sattvas),  L.   260a";  Th.  3  6***^,   11a"- 
^***,  6^. 
*mahasahasra,   consisting  of  many  thou- 
sands, P.  7  a",  15  a*,  16  6*,  18  a^,  6*^. 
mahasutra,   grand    sutra,    Th.   3  a*-  ^,   h\ 

10  6^. 
Mahoraga,  pr.  n.  of  a  class  of  mythological 

beings,  Th.  2a**". 
mamsa   (plur.),   flesh,   P.   9  a*;    mamsa- 

caksus,  fleshly  eye,  P.  14  a*-**. 
Matrceta,  pr.  n.  of  a  poet,  H.  1 3  (3)  6*^-  'f. 


208 


VOCABULARY   TO 


'"matr-matrika,  woman  of  the  aspect  of  a 
mother,  H.  1  6^ ;  *matrjnata,  honouring 
one's  mother,  H.  10  (56)  6^;  *niatr- 
samjna,  name  of 'mother',  H.  1  6". 

matrika,  aspect,  position,  H.  1  6""-  ™. 

manapya,  degradation,  H.  3  a". 

*maya-eehid,  destroying  illusion,  H.  6  6". 

Mara,  pr.  n.,  the  Evil  One,  Th.  2  b^^,  5  b^, 
6  a",  8  b^. 

marge,  in  the  regular  way,  H.  2  6"-  "•  ■". 

malakara,  maker  of  garlands,  H.  6  h"'. 

Maliui,  pr.  n.  of  a  female  divinity,  Th.  10 

mityatva,  falsehood,  H.  4  (2)  a'. 
*mithya-praliana,  false  effort,  P.  1 7  &i. 
*rauktihara,  pearl  necklace,  Th.  1 1  b^. 
"mukha-darsana,  beholding  the  face,  Th. 

2  ai^. 
muhurta  {niiihurta),  moment,  Th.  9  a^. 
mutra,  urine;   see  maiaka. 
mulya,  value,  L.  254  &". 
*Mrgasiri,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  «™. 
mrtyu,  death,  deadening  influence,  H.  7  6™. 
maitra,  friendliness,  Th.  8  a^^. 
mocaka,  liberating,  Th.  7  (2)  6". 
*inosa-dharma,   ways  of   a   deceiver,  H. 

13(2)  a^. 
moha,  infatuation,  H".  4  (1)  i". 
*niauna-prapta,  one  who  has  attained  the 

^tate  of  Muni,  H.  6  a». 


Taksa,  pr.   n.   of  a   class   of  mythological 

beings,  Th.  2  a^-  ^,  b^^,  6  6i^. 
yantra,  instrument,  Th.  7  (1)  b^. 
Yama,  pr.  n.  of  god  of  netherworld,   H. 

5  ci" ;  with  devati,  Th.  9  a""". 
Tasodhara,  pr.  n.  of  a  nun,  L.  259  a',  6"*. 
*yasti-satoda,  noise  made  with  a  stick,  H. 

1  6""ii. 
*yaliesta-putra,  wished-for  son,  Th.  2  6^. 
yatra,  journey,  pilgrimage,  H.  10  (56)  ciP^. 
yana,  vehicle,  Th.   5  a^ ;  with  bodhisattva, 

maha,  srestha,  q.v. 
yama,  vehicle,  chariot;  see  suri/a. 
*yugantara-preksin,  looking  in  front  to 

the  distance  of  a  yuga,  H.  1  a",  b^. 

E, 

*raceha  (Skr.  rathyii),  highroad,  Th.  6  6". 
rajas,  sand  (of  Ganges),  Th.  7  (2)  h",  11  a™- 


™\  6iii ;  dust,  P.  7  cC",  U-  ",  16  a^i ;  dirty 
particle,  Th.  6  a"  ;  evil  passion,  H.  1  a™. 

ranya,  delectation,  Th.  2  b^. 

ratna,  jewel;  with  mani  and  sajHa,  q.v, 

rathya,  highroad,  H.  1  b™-. 

Rasmi  -  satasahasra-paripurna-dhvaja, 
pr.  n.  of  a  person,  L.  259  a'"^'  ™. 

rasa,  taste,  Th.  6  S^iii,  7  (1)  &i-  iv;  p.  2  b^, 
6  a". 

Raksasa,  a  class  of  mythological  beings, 
H.'  5  6iii ;  Th.  2  &i^-  v. 

Rajan,  king  (of  Kalinga),  P.  9  «';  (of 
Mount  Meru),  P.  6  a^,  16  6;  rajana 
(gen.  pL),  Th.  2  a«,  &^. 

Rajagrha,  pr.  n.  of  a  town,  H.  8  a^. 

rasi,  mass,  collection,  H.  4(2)ai;  P.  16  5". 

rasi,  astrological  sign,  Th.  9  6". 

Rahu,  pr.  n.  of  Asura  chief,  Th.  6  a^^,  b^. 

Rahula,  pr.  n.  of  Buddha's  son,  L.  259  b^^. 

rudra-karma,  fierce  rites,  Th.  9  a^. 

rupa,  form,  H.  4  (1 )  a^ ;  Th.  2  b^\  7  (1)  »vi^ 
6'^;  P.  9  6"",  17  Ji;  *rupa-kaya,  pheno- 
menal, corporeal  body,  H.12  (4)  ai- ";  P.  15 
f,T.  vi  J  *rupa-pratisthita,  P.  9  ay^,  U\ 

rupin,  having  form,  P.  2  U. 

roga,  disease,  Th.  2  6"-  "i. 

romakupa,  hair  follicle,  H.  13  (1)6^. 


laksana,  mark,  P.  7  6™-  i^-  "^  ;  *laksana- 
saiiipada,  wealth  of  marks,  P.  1 5  6'- ", 
1 7  a^-  iv-  ■",  6". 

lavanambhas,  salt  sea,  H.  12  (1)5^'^. 

linga,  mark,  Th.  8  a'. 

lena(Skr.  layana),  cave,  Th.  7  (2)  5'". 

lAka-dhatu,  world  system,  L.  253  6', 
254  6",  259  a™,  260  a?^ ;  Th.  2  aP-, 
1 1  avi.  vii.  Tiii^  Jiv.  "ri  ;  p.  g  U-  "i,  7  a^,  J", 
14  Jii.  iii.  w  15  a\  16  b^-  ",  17  6"^,  18  a^, 
jiv ;  *lokanuvartana  and  *lokaiiu- 
vrttya,  speaking  after  the  manner  of  the 
vulgar  world,  Th.  3  a™. 

loma-harsana,  bristling  of  hair,  Th.  2  6™i. 


*vajra-tundi,  having  a  thunderbolt  at  the 
navel,  an  epithet  of  Tara,  H.  11  a''. 

*vadamnuta,  liberality,  H.  12(3)6". 

varna,  praise,  H.  6  6";  Th.  2  6';  *varna- 
vadita,  speaking  in  praise  of,  H. 
10  (57)  a^",  6"  ;  *Varnarlia- varna,  pr.  u. 


ALL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


209 


of  a  Stotra,  praise  of  the  praiseworthy, 
H.  13(2)&iii,  13(3)Siii. 
varnita,  praised,  Th.  2  h^. 
varsa  (plur.),  rains,  rainy  season,  Th.  3  af". 
vastu-patita,  relying  on  anything,  P.  9  6^. 
vastra,  garment,  Th.  6  6^^,  8  a^,  6^^. 
vakya,  speech,  Th.  2  6i". 
Vagisa,  pr.  n.  of  a  Buddhist  monk,  H.  7  a>. 
vata-vrsti,  rainy  squall,  L.  3  a^-  "■  ™. 
vadya,  music,  musical  instrument,  Th.  5  6*. 
vanta,  eschewed,  H.  1 2  (2')  a".     See  icchd- 

pavicdra. 
vayu-dhatu,  element  of  air,  H.  4  (1)  c(y 
vallka,    sand,  Th.    2  a™i,    11  a^ ;    Y.7Jf, 

10  aiii-iv,  14  6i- ". 
valuka,  sand,  P.  6  a^J,  U,  1 4  6",  1 7  6^. 
vasa,  lodgement,  Th.  10  6™. 
vikasanti,  they  blow,  open  (flowers),  Th. 

4  a",  bK 
*vioehandana,  contentment,  H.  10(56)o^. 
*vijnana-sthiti,  foundation  of  intelligence, 

H.  4  (2)  a". 
vitatha,  false,  Th.  8  bK 
vidya,  knowledge,  learning,  magic,  L.  259a"^; 
Th.  6  6™,  10  i^-  ™i ;  *vidyavira,  mighty 
in  magic,  pr.  n.  (1),  H.  5  a"". 
*vidliamayati,  it  disperses,  Th.  4  b". 
vinaya,   rules   of  discipline,   H.   3  6"  (see 
samudddna) ;   *vinaya-dhara,  versed  in 
rules  of  discipline,  H.  3  a™. 
vinasa,    destruction,    with    dharma,  P.  17 

jiv.  V  J  with  saddharma,  q.v. 
vipaeyanti,  they  mature,  Th.  4  &"- 
*vipasya,  who  j)erceives,  H.  6  a^. 
vipula,  abundant,  Th.  7  (2)  aiv. 
vipriya,  unfriendliness,  Th.  2  «'^ 
vibhavit-apaya,  made  to  perceive  one's  evil 

state,  H.  12(3)5*. 
vimala,  spotless,  Th.  11  «i^. 
Vimaladatta,  pr.  n.  of  a  king,  L.  2  a^^. 
*viinatrata,  inequality,  H.  13(2)6*. 
*viinukta-citta,    having  an    emancipated 

mind,  L.  3  a*'^. 
vimukti,  emancipation,  h.  3  aJ  ;  Th.  8  6*. 
*viyubha,  arrangement,  P.  6  a*,  13  b^-^; 

viyuha,  P.  13  6'^'. 
*viraga-earita,  practising  renunciation,  Th. 
8  a^  ;  *viraga-dharma,  condition  of  ab- 
sence of  desire,  L.  3  6". 
*viradliita,  displeased,  P.  11  6***, 
*vivati  {vivdda  1),  dispute,  Th.  9  a*^. 
vivikte,  in  solitude,  Th.  4  b^\ 


*viveka-sukha,    comfort  of  isolation,    H. 

12(2'')6v 
vilada,  clearness,  Th.  3  b'^. 
*visuddha-citta,  purified  mind,  Th.  4  «'•". 
*vlsuddhika,  (day  of)  purification,  H.  7  a". 
visa,  poison,  H.  12  (3)  a^ ;  Th.  2  a*^  ;  visa- 

maksika,  poisonous  fly,  Th.  6  a^^. 
visaya,  sphere,  object,  Th.  7  (1)  6"- 
*visthapana,  maintaining,  H.  3  a^^. 
visarjana,  declining,  H.  1  a*'^-"^.    See  bhahta. 
vistirna,  extensive,  Th.  7  (2)  a". 
*vistpardhin  {visp°),  vying,  Tii.  6  6'"'. 
vispasta,  manifest,  Th.  3  b''. 
vihara,  monastery,  Th.  7  (2)  a"^,  6*"-     See 

also  brahnd. 
viharin,  practising,  Th.  8  h". 
vithi,  market-street,  bazaar,  H.  1  6™. 
vrka,  wolf,  Th.  2  6*. 

vrtta,  rule,  H.  1  aP'-^;  see  pinda,  bhakta. 
vrtty-upaceheda,    cutting   off  livelihood, 

"H.  10(57)ai\ 
vrscika,  scorpion,  Th.  6  a". 
vela,  time,  Th.  2  a™. 
*Vaitulya,  vast,  pr.  n.  of  a  class  of  Jlaliayana 

literature,  Th.  3  6"*. 
*vaidesa-pujita,  worshipped  by  foreigners, 

H.  11a*. 
*vainateyayate,  it  acts  as  Vainateya,  H. 

12(2')6\ 
*Vaimaeitra,  pr.  n.  of  a  king,  Th.  6  a™-  '^ 
*vairamana,  abstaining,  H,  10  (57)  6**. 
vaira,  aidmosity,  H.  6  a""- 
Vairocana,  pr.  n.  of  Asura  king,  Th.  6  a™* ; 

*Vairaucana,  pr.  n.,  H.  1 1  a***. 
*vaila-sala-nada,  noise  of  water  in  cavern, 

Th.  lOSviii. 
Vaisravana,  pr.  n.  of  a  Yaksha,  H.  5  a" . 
vaihayasa,  firmament,  sky,  Th.  11  6*^- ^. 
vyanjana,  secondaiy  sign,  H.  12  (2'')  &". 
vyaya,  passing  away  (of  impressions),  L. 
3  6* ;  *vyaya-dharnia,  condition  of  pass- 
ing away,  L.   3  6** ;    *vyay-^imdarsin, 
perceiving  the  passing  away,  L.  3  6***- 
vyavadana,  purification,  H.  13  (2)  a*'^. 
vyavasaya-dvitiya,  seconded  by  resolution, 

H.  12(l)aiii 
*vyasana-prapta,   who  has  met  with   an 

accident,  H.  1  a""*. 
vyakarana,  explanation,  H.  3  &"",  6  a*  (see 

prasna);  prophecy,  L.  259  &**■***■  ■^. 
*vyakrta,  unfolded,  predicted,  P.  13«*. 
vyaghra,  tiger,  Th.  2  6*. 


210 


VOCABULAKY   TO 


vyada,     mischievous,    H.    5  a",    9  a'-  i" ; 

vyada-mrga,  beast  of  prey,  Th.  2  6*. 
vyapada-samjna,  notion  of  '  evil  intent ', 

P,  9  ffliii- ". 
vraja,  cattle-shed,  Th.  3  6^. 

S 

saiiisanti,  they  praise,  Th.  2  b^. 

Sakra,  epithet  of  Indra,  H.  6  C6iv;  Th.  2  tf-™; 

Sakra-sthana,   rank    of   Sakra,  L.  254 

d^  ;  *sakrayudhayate,  it  acts  as  Sakra's 
^  bow,  H.  12  {2'')  b^. 

Satabhisa,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  fli". 
sabda,  word,  Th.  2  ci^  (see  kirti,  dharma) ; 

sound,  Th.  7  (1)  h" ;  P.  2  Jf,  9  cC^. 
*samita-vaira,  with  appeased  animosities, 

H.  6  a^i. 
*sayyam  kalpayati,  he  takes  to  his  bed, 

goes  to  sleep,  P.  1 8  a'" ;  sayyasana,  see 

saiyy&saTM. 
sarad,  autumn,  Th.  3  a™,  b^. 
salabha,  locust,  Th.  6  6". 
sastra,  weapon,  Th.  ^2  a™i. 
Sakya-muni,  the  Sakya  sage,  epithet   of 

Buddha,  Th.  7  (2)  6^1  (note),  116™;    p. 

13  a*. 
Sariputra,  pr.  n.  of  a  Buddhist  monk,  L. 

254  a",  6iv-Ti;  Th.  la™, 
sasana,  commandment,  Th.  8  b^. 
sastr,  teacher,  L.  259a'<'i,  6™. 
sikya,  string,  U.  2  Jii-if;  see  daTtda. 
sikseya,  he  may  learn,  Th.  2  a"™i. 
silamaya,  involving  virtuous  conduct,  H. 

4  (2)  a™. 
sukla   (mfoYt)-ksaya,    loss    of    fecundity, 

Th.  6  6"'. 
susriisa,  caring  to  listen,  H.  10  (57)  «'. 
sunya,     (void     of     reality),     ]3henomenal, 

L.   253  a™ ;    sunya-dharma,    doctrine 

of  phenomenalism,  Th.  7  (l)ai"-'^;  (void 

of    jDeople),     sunya  -  grama,     deserted 
^  village,  Th.  7(1)  6™. 
Suramgama-samadhi,  pr.  n.  of  a  Sutra, 

Th.  lOffli-i"-^,  U-'^. 
srmgataka,  crossway,  H.  1  6^i". 
*saiyyS,sana  or  sayy&saiia,  bedstead,  H. 

2  ai-^ ;  Th.  4  6™. 
*saTirya-dhanusa,  prowess  in  wielding  the 

bow,  Th.  6  6^." 
sramana,  ascetic,  buddhist  monk,  Th.  8  oi-"; 

*sramana-lmga,-  mai-k  of  a  Sramana,  Th. 


8  fli ;  sraman-ddde^a,  a  buddhist  novice, 

^  H.  2  a^. 

Sravana,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a"i. 

sraddha,  believing,  Th.  7  (2)  a". 

*sramanyata,  living  like  a  Sramana,  H.  1 0 
(56)  6^. 

srayaka,  a  disciple  of  Buddha,  H.  6a"-'^,  7  Jiii ; 
Th.  10  6"";  (later)  a  monk  of  the  Hlna- 
yfinist  section  (as  distinguished  from  the 
Mahayanist  bodhisattva,  q.  v.),  Th.  3  b'', 
106'";  L.,  p.  153,  n.  2.    See  mahasra/oaka. 

sravayanti,  they  proclaim,  Th.  2  a^'^. 

sruta-purva,  previously  heard,  P.  8  a™. 

srestha,  best,  Th.  2  6™;  srestha-yana, 
best  path,  P.  10  6". 

*Srona,  pr.  n.  of  a  person,  L.  3  6'^. 

srotra,  ear,Th.  7  (2)  a^;  *srotr-aTabhasa, 
range  of  hearing,  Th.  2  ci^. 

sloka,  a  kind  of  verse,  H.  10  (56)  a™. 

sad  -  grama  -  caura,    six  village    thieves 

(senses),  Th.  7(1)6™. 
sat-paramita,  six  perfections,  L.  253  a", 

254  a^. 

S 
sa  (dem.  pron.,  as  in  so'ham),  emjshatic,  H. 

13(1)6™. 
samyama,  self-restraint,  Th.  4  a^\ 
*samyojaiia-bandhana,  engrossing  ties,  H. 

7  a^-  ™. 
samvartaniya,  necessarilyleadingto  rebirth, 

H.  10  (56)  a"- ^,  6"-i^  10  (57)  a™™,  6"-f ; 

P.  lla^. 
samsrta,  combined,  Th.  7  (1)  6"^. 
samskara   (false   for   samscira),    mundane 

existence,  Th.  8  6^. 
*samskrta,  the  well-made,  world,  cosmos, 

P.  19  6™. 
samstuta,  celebrated,  Th.  2  6^. 
samsthapana,  setting  up,  Th.  8  a^. 
samsveda-ja,  moisture-born  (insects,  worms, 

&c.),  P.  2  a"". 
*sakili-karma  (?),  H.  3  a^". 
*sariikilesa  {°klfJa),  suffering,  Th.  2  6™. 
samklesa,  moral  evil,  H.  13  (2)  a}^. 
samksepatah,  succinctly,  Th.  7  (l)a". 
*samkhyam  gaeehanti,  they  are  counted 

among  (the  things  fit  for),  Th.  4  a^. 
*samgatiga,who  has  outgone  the  five  attach- 
ments, H.  6  b\ 
samgiti,  rehearsal  of  Vinaya,  H.  3  6". 


ALL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


211 


samgha,  buddhist  congregation,  H.  3  6"i. 

saiheaya,  collection,  mass,  P.  18  a^,  ftiii-iii. 
See  pai-amdnu. 

saihjna,  name,  notion,  H.  1  6"-  ■"'.  See 
citma,  jiva,  pudgala,  vydpada,  sattva. 

*sainjnan6paka  {1),  P.  2  bK 

samjnin,  conscious  of,  H.  1  6^. 

''sata-trini  yanani,  three  equal  vehicles, 
Th.  5  a^. 

satkara-sloka,  congratulatory  verae,  H.  10 
(56)aii-iii.     Qee  kirti. 

satkrtya,  with  care,  H.  1  6i. 

sattva,  living  being,  Th.  2  b^^-  ^i",  7(1)  ai", 
1 1  ai-  iii,  6iv  ;  P.  2  a^',  b^-  ",  1 1  av,  &c. ; 
*sattva-grah.a,  P.  1 7  a* ;  *sattva-drsti, 
P.  19  fli;  *satTa-drstika,  P.  IDS'"; 
*sattva-samjfla,  P.  2  6",  8  5"-  ">,  9  a"-  ^, 
6™ ;  *sattv-&searya,  P.  7  a\  8  a™. 

satya-vadin,  truth-speaking,  P.  9  6''^;  *saty- 
avatara,  incarnation  of  truth,  Th.  8  6'. 

Saddharma-vinasa,  destruction  of  the 
Good  Law,  Th.  3  ci^,  &" ;  with  antardhana 
or  antardhani,  q.v. 

samtana,  chain  of  thought,  Th.  4  6*. 

*sairiti  (snirliX),  recollection,  H.  4  {l)«i". 

samtraset,  he  fears,  Th.  10  «'"  ;  samtrasi- 
syanti,  P.  8  6^. 

saiiitrasa,  fear,  Th.  10  ai"  ;  P.  8  6^. 

*sariidipakatva,  stimulating  nature,  Th.  3  a'. 

samdha-vaeana,  enigmatic  speech,  mys- 
tery, Th.  SJi,  10  a^- 

*saiiini-iiimitta,  depressive  sign,  Th.  3  a"". 

samnipatayeyam,  I  wish  to  bring  together, 
Th.  1  fliii;  samnipatayainasa,he  brought 
together,  Th.  1  6™. 

*sannisiditavya,  to  be  sat  down,  H.  1  aK 

*sapta-dhana,  seven  kinds  of  treasure,  Th. 
5  6™ ;  sapta-ratna,  seven  precious  sub- 
stances, L.  2  6i^;  P.  6&iii,  15  a\  16  6", 
1 7  6"",  1 9  ct^ ;  sapta-sata  {samglti),  (re- 
hearsal by)  the  700  monks,  H.  3  6". 

saptama-nimitta,  seventh  sign,  Th.  3  a^. 

sa-pratikarm-apatti,  offence  with  sub- 
sequent atonement,  H.  3  oAk 

sama,  equal  to,  Th.  2  6",  llavin  jiy;  p. 
17  6^;  sama-citta,  steadfast  mind,  H. 
1  a"' ;  sama-tiktitam,  with  the  proper 
amount  of  condiments,  H.  1  6*-  " ;  sama- 
supikam,  with  the  proper  amount  of 
cooked  split  pulse,  H.  1  6"  ;  with  dhanna 
and  sambodhi,  the  same,  universal,  P.  16 
av-  vi ;  see  bisama. 


samadapana,  taking  the  cost  of  religious 
enterprises  on  one's  self,  H.  10  (56)  a^, 
10(57)a«i. 

samadhi,  religious  self-concentration,  Th. 
2  a^x,  jii.  Y-ix^  4  aYii_  8  6i. 

samana,  equal,  Th.  1 1  a"'  'f" 
samapatti,  attainment,  Th.  8  6"-  ■". 
samucchraya,  existence,  L.  259  a'^. 
sanmtpada,  chain  of  causation,  Th.  8  6''. 
*samuddana,  table  of  contents,  H.  3  6". 
samudra,  ocean,  L.  253  a^. 
sampada,  wealth,  with  laksana,  q.v. 
*samparidipayamana,    illuminating,    Th. 

7  (2)  b\ 
samprakampayisu,     they    trembled,     L. 

260  6i" 
samprakasayet,    he    should   proclaim,   P. 

19  6«. 
*samprajanena,  with  circumspection,    H. 

1  ai,  6"-  iii-  i-f. 

sampravista,  settling  on,  Th.  7(1)6^. 

samprasthita,  with  yana,  advancing  on 
(the  path),  P.  2aii-i^  10  6",  17  6iiii^, 
19aiii. 

sampraharsana,  encouragement,  H.  10  (57) 
6^. 

sambuddha,  sambodhi,  &c.,  see  samyak. 

sammukha,  present,  L.  259  6"^. 

sammoha,  infatuation,  Th.  8  a^. 

*samyak-pratipad,  complete  success,  H. 
12(1)  a^;  samyak-samadlii,  perfect  con- 
centration (of  mind),  H.4(l)aii;  samyak- 
samtauddha,  perfectly  enlightened,  Th. 
10  6";  P.  7  6iii,  13  aP^,  H  ai,  18  a^; 
*samyak-sambuddhatva,  perfect  en- 
lightenment, L.  254  aiii ;  samyak-sam- 
bodha,  id.  (masc),  Th.  4  6™;  or  sam- 
bodha  (fern.),  1 1  a^,  6i-  ii-  iii-  iv ;  samyak- 
sambodbi,  id.,  L.  254  6™,  259  6iii-"; 
P.  1 3  fliii-  i^,  1 6  a^"^,  1 7  6ii-  iii ;  samyak- 
smrti,  perfect  recollection  (of  duties), 
H.  4(l)c8ii;  *samyag-gata,  who  walks 
blamelessly,  H.  6  a". 

samyaktva-niyato  rasi,  mass  of  absolute 
truth,  H.  4  (2)  a\ 

sarisppaM,  creeping  snake,  Th.  6  ciP/. 

Sarva-rnta-kausalya,  pr.  n.  of  a  Dharanl, 
L.  2  a^  (transl.). 

Sarva-sattva-priyadarsana,  pr.  n.  of  a 
person,  L.  2  aii. 

sarvavanta,  entire,  Th.  1 1  6'"ii, 

sala(1),  water,  Th.  10  6™i, 


p2 


212 


VOCABULAEY  TO  ALL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 


*savacaiiiya,  act  of  issuing  a  command,  H. 

*Saha(masc.),  pr.  n.  of  a  world  system,  L.  260 

a™-  'T. 
sahanti,  tliey  are  overcome,  Th.  2  a^. 
sasya,  crop  of  cereals,  with  ksaya,  Th.  6  J'"". 
sS.ksi-kartavya,  to  be  realized,  H.  4  (1) 

sagara,  ocean,  Th.  7  (2)  6"'-  v. 

Sagara,    pr.  n.  of  a  Nagaraja,  L.  253  6", 

254  6i.iii.Ti. 

Satagiri,  pr.  n.  of  a  Yaksha,  H.  5  6'. 

sada,  decay,  Th.  5  a?-^. 

*sapatti  -  pratikarmapatti,    offence   done 

with  atonement  and  subsequent  offence, 

H.  3  a^a. 
*sam.ukha  {sammukha  1),  face  to  face,  Th. 

4  a™. 
sarathi,  drivei-,  guide,  L.  259  6". 
*savadanam,  item  by  item,  H.  1  b^. 
simha,  lion,  Th.  2  ¥ ;  simha-nada,  lion's 

roar,  L.  260  6™ ;  see  H.  12  {2')  a*  (transl.). 
*sukara  (for  sukara),  hog,  Th.  2  a*^. 
sukha,  see  viveka ;  *sukh6papatti,  blissful 

existence,  H.  4  (2)  6". 
Sugata,  "Welcome  One,  epithet  of  Buddha, 

L.  259  aT;  H.  6  &iii,  7  a* ;  Th.  2  a™i ;  p. 

8  a". 
*su-paripakv-endriya,  whose  senses  are 

fully  matured,  Th.  4  6". 
^supina  (Skr.  svaima),  dreaming,  Th.  2  n". 
su-pratieehanna,  well  covered  (with  robes), 

H.  1  f(il,  6v. 
su-pratisthita,  well  set  up,  Th.  7  (2)  6^. 
*Subhuta  (Skr.  Suhhuti),  pr.  n.  of  an  Arhat, 

P.  2  a™,  el  iMssim. 
Sumeru,  pr.  n.  of  a   mountain,   P.  6  a'i, 

16  6"  (plur.). 
surasura,  with  jagat,  world  of  Suras  and 

Asuras,  Th.  9  b™. 
*su-labhatisaya,  easy  to  surpass,  H.  12  (1) 

*Suvarna-blias6ttama,  pr.  n.  of  a  Sutra, 

Th.  7'(2)ai-'",  Ji.iii. 
su-samvrta,   well  guarded  (from  soilint;), 

H.  1  aii,  b^. 
*Susambhava,    pr.  n.    of  a  chapter,    Th. 

7  (2)  aii. 
sliksma-mati,  subtle-minded,  Th.  5  b^"-  ™. 
sutra,  a  religious  text,  Th.   3  &>",  7  (2)  a*, 

•5ui.w;   p.  8aiii;    Siitranta,  id.,  P.   11 

ai.  iv^   jiiij    sutra-labha,  advantage  of  a 


Sutra,  Th.  3  6'^;  sutrendra,  or  sutren- 

dra-raja,   chief  of  Sutras,  Th.  7  (2)  b^, 

7  (l)ai,  7(2)aii-'",  b^;    sutra-sthana, 

subject  of  a  Sutra,  Th.  3  a'. 
surya,  sun,Th.  9  6^;  P. 9  J";  *surya-yama, 

sun  chariot,  Th.  4  a". 
srgala,  jackal,  Th.  2  6*. 
sausthava,  healthy  condition,  H.  12  (3)6'^. 
skandha,   body  of  doctrine  (dharma),  H. 

4  (1)  ai'*';    department  of  the  mind,  Th. 

4  a" ;  mass,  P.  1 5  cji",  with  jiunya,  q.  v. 
stupa,    a    kind    of    buddhist    shrine,    Th. 

7  (2)  6^. 
''stri-bhava,  nature  of  woman,  L.  259  a" 
sthavira,     a    buddhist   elder,   P.    19  6™; 

*sthavira-tritaya,  three  kinds  of  elders, 

H.  4  (2)  a". 
sthana,  rank,  L.  254  a"" ;  astrological  place, 

Th.  9  b^  ;  subject,  see  sutra. 
sthapana,   inhibition,    H.   3  a^ ;    see  pra- 

vdrana. 
sthapaniya,  to  be  set  aside,  not  answered, 

H.  4(l)6iii. 
sthiti,  foundation,  H.  4  (1)  a'". 
sparsa,  tactility,  Th.  7  (1)  6iv  ;  P.  6  a". 
*sprti-kara,  supplier,  Th.  5  b^-  ^^. 
spharati,  it  pervades,  L.  253  b^. 
sphita,  prosperous,  Th.  6  b'^'^. 
*sphuta,  infested,  Th.   6  b^ ;    touched  by 

tama,  q.v. 
*smad-bh.ava,  {fiJcasmad  V],  accidental  exis- 
tence, L.  3  6^;  see  note  6  to  translation. 
*smrtini  upasthapya,  remembering  fixedly, 

H'.  1  a"ii. 
*sva-pakva,  food  cooked  of  one's  own  accord, 

H.  3  a'. 
svara,  sound,  with  ]}d2M,  q.v. 
*Svata,  pr.  n.  of  an  asterism,  Th.  9  a™. 

H 

harana,  suppressing,  H.  1  a"i. 

hani,  decay,  Th.  2  6". 

*liayin,  abandoning,  H.  7  6iii. 

hara,  necklace,  Th.  11  6^. 

*Hiranyavati,  pr.  n.  of  a  DharanI,  Th. 
7(l)ai. 

*Himavanta  (for  Mma°),  pr.  n.  of  a  moun- 
tain, H.  5  o"' ;  of  a  Yaksha,  H.  5  6'. 

heta-bhaya,  risk  of  injury,  Th.  2  a}'^. 

hetenti,  they  do  injury,  Th.  2  6". 

hoi-a,  hour,  Th.  9  b^^. 

hri,  shame,  Th.  6  b™. 


PART  II 

KHOTANESE,   KUCHEAN,   CHINESE,   AND   TIBETAN 

TEXTS 


THE  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

IN  THE  OLD  KHOTANESE  VERSION  OF  EASTERN  TURKESTAN 

Stein  M.,  Ch.  00275.    (Plates  V-XIV) 
Edited   by  Sten  Konow 

INTKODUCTION 

This  edition  of  the  Vajracchedika  is  based  on  a  complete  manuscript  which 
belongs  to  the  treasures  brought  back  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein  from  the  cave  temples  at  the 
'  Halls  of  the  Thousand  Buddhas  '  to  the  south-east  of  Tunhuang.^ 

The  manuscript  was  first  brought  to  notice  by  Dr.  Hoernle,  who  describes  it  as 
follows :  ^ 

'  The  manuscript  of  the  Vajracchedika  consists  of  forty-four  leaves,  measuring 
about  26-0  x  7-3  cm.  (or  10  x  2|  inches),  with  four  lines  of  large  writing  in  the 
upright  Gupta  type  of  Eastern  Turkestani  characters.  It  is,  however,  not  quite 
complete:  only  thirty-three  leaves  survive;  fols.  11-14,  16—19,  39,  41  and  43, 
altogether  eleven,  are  missing.  The  folio  numbers  are  on  the  obverse  sides.  The 
text  commences,  on  the  reverse  of  the  first  folio^  with  a  circlet  in  the  upper  right 
corner,  followed  by  saddham.  The  centre  of  the  page  is  occupied  by  a  large  figure 
of  the  seated  Buddha  within  two  concentric  circles.  The  obverse  of  the  first  folio 
is  filled  with  a  disorderly  mass  of  writing  in  cursive  characters  of  varying  sizes, 
among  which  the  words  Kalpa-rdja-sutra  and  Va,jara-c7iaiiJaJci-prajnripdrd-saddham 
are  legible.     The  reverse  of  the  last  folio  has  three  lines,  and  in  the  centre  another 

^  See  M.  Aurel  Stein,  Explorations  in  Central  Asia,  1906-8.  Eeprinted  from  the 
Geographical  Journal  for  July  and  September,  1909,  pp.  39  and  £f.  Also,  his  Euins  of 
Desert  Cathay,  Vol.  ii,  pp.  24  and  ff.  It  appears  to  have  been  found  separated  into  two 
portions,  which  were  placed  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein  in  two  bundles,  one  marked  Ch.  00275  and 
containing  fols.  1-10,  15,  20-38,  40,  42,  44,  the  other  marked  Ch.  xlvi.  0012  A,  and  com- 
prising fol.  11-14,  16-19,  39,  41,  43.  The  fact  that  the  two  bundles  contained  portions  of 
the  same  text  was  recognized  by  Dr.  Hoernle  only  in  the  course  of  a  lengthy  examination 
of  the  manusoiipts  recovered  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein.  When  this  took  place,  tlie  contents  of 
the  first  bundle  had  already  been  reproduced  in  Plates  V-XI.  Consequently  the  folios  of 
the  second  bundle  could  not  be  made  to  appear  in  their  proper  places,  but  are  shown 
in  Plates  XII-XIV. 

^  Journal  of  the  Koyal  Asiatic  Society,  1910,  pp.  836  and  f.  I  have  introduced  my 
own  reading  of  the  text  words. 


VAJEACCHEDIKA  IN  THE  OLD  KHOTANESE  VERSION  215 

large  figure  of  the  seated  Buddha  within  concentric  circles.  The  first  line  gives  the 
colophon  hadi  Vajrrachedaka  UHaya  Frajnaparamma  samdsye  II .  .  .  Then,  after 
a  broad  intervening  blank  space,  follow  the  other  two  lines,  which  read  saddham 
Vap-racliidahyi  hiya  ttddi,  &e.i  The  manuscript  commences  with  a  long  introduction  in 
the  "  unknown  language  ",  of  which  there  is  no  Sanskrit  equivalent  in  Max  Miiller's 
edition.^  The  text  itself  of  the  Vajracchedika  begins  only  with  the  second  line 
of  the  reverse  of  the  third  folio,  where  its  beginning  is  indicated  by  a  cia-clet  followed 
by  saddham,  exactly  like  that  at  the  commencement  of  the  whole  manuscript.' 

To  this  description  I  have  only  to  add  that  fol.  38  is  not  in  the  same  hand- 
writing as  the  rest,  and  that  the  missing  leaves,  11-14,  16-19,  39,  41  and  43  have 
subsequently  turned  up.  After  my  edition  of  the  text  and  my  translation  and 
vocabulary  had  been  ready  in  proof  for  some  time,  I  received  from  Dr.  Hoernle 
eleven  manuscript  leaves,  which  had  likewise  been  found  in  the  Tunhuang  caves, 
but  not  in  the  same  place  as  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript.  Dr.  Hoernle  thought 
that  they  might  belong  to  another  manuscript  of  the  same  text.  When  examining 
them,  however,  I  soon  realized  that  they  were  the  missing  leaves  of  the  old  manu- 
script, and  I  am  accordingly  in  a  position  to  publish  the  first  complete  text  in  the 
old  Iranian  language  of  Eastern  Turkestan. 

The  beginning  of  the  text  was  published  by  Dr.  Hoernle  shortly  after  it  had 
been  discovered.^  The  same  scholar  subsequently  published  a  transcript  of  the 
portion  of  the  text  contained  in  fols.  3(5'"-10  6'"  and  31  a'"-83  a"',  together  with 
some  notes.*  An  edition  of  that  portion,  based  on  Dr.  Hoernle's  transcript,  was 
published  by  Professor  Leumann  early  in  1913  in  an  exhaustive  study  on  our 
language.® 

My  own  connexion  with  the  '  unknown  language '  dates  back  to  1906,  when 
Dr.  Hoernle  asked  me  to  publish  those  fragments  of  his  Central  Asian  collection 
which  are  written  in  that  form  of  speech.  About  the  same  time,  however,  I  accepted 
the  position  of  Government  Epigraphist  for  India,  and  I  could  not,  therefore,  devote 
more  than  two  or  three  weeks  to  the  work.  The  only  result  was  the  discovery 
of  the  word  gyasta,  god.  In  other  respects  the  conclusions  I  arrived  at  have  proved 
to  be  wrong.     The  materials  were  then  handed  over  to  Professor  Leumann,  who 


'  In  the  left-hand  margin  is  another  small  seated  Buddha  within  two  concentric 
circles. 

^  Anecdota  Oxoniensia.  Aryan  Series,  Vol.  i,  Part  1.  Buddhist  Texts  from  Japan, 
edited  by  F.  Max  Muller,  M.A.,  Oxford,  1881. 

=  I.e.,  p.  838. 

^  I.e.,  pp.1284  andff. 

"  Prof.  Leumann,  Zur  nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur  (pp.  75,  77-82).  Vor- 
bemerkungen  und  vier  Aufsatze  mit  Glossar.  Strassburg,  1912.  Schriften  der  Wissen- 
schaftlichen  Gesellschaft  in  Strassburg,  10.  Heft. 


216  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

had  already  devoted  some  time  to  the  study  of  the  '  unknown  language '}  The 
results  of  his  inquiries^  contained  in  the  exhaustive  study  above-mentioned,  in  which 
he  had  the  good  fortune  of  being  able  to  use  translations  of  the  Chinese  and  Tibetan 
versions  of  works  represented  among  the  manuscript  fragments,  had  not  been 
published  when  the  bulk  of  the  present  work  was  finished. 

When  Sir  Aurel  Stein  returned  from  his  last  successful  expedition,  he  asked  me, 
on  Dr.  Hoernle's  advice,  to  undertake  the  edition  of  that  portion  of  his  manuscripts 
which  belongs  to  our  language.  The  sorting  of  his  manuscript  treasures  was 
entrusted  to  the  skilled  care  of  Dr.  Hoernle,  whose  important  contributions  have 
already  been  mentioned.  By  the  end  of  April,  1911,  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript 
was  then  transmitted  to  me. 

I  thought  it  to  be  my  duty  to  lay  a  careful  edition  of  the  whole  manuscript 
before  the  learned  world  with  as  little  delay  as  possible.  A  solution  of  the  various 
problems  connected  with  the  '  unknown  language '  can  only  be  given  by  a  collabora- 
tion of  many  scholars.  More  especially,  a  thorough  knowledge  of  Iranian  languages, 
which  I  do  not  possess,  is  a  necessary  condition.  I  therefore  resisted  the  temptation 
of  keeping  the  manuscript  till  I  could  interpret  the  whole  of  it  to  my  own 
satisfaction,  and  contented  myself  with  the  more  modest  task  of  editing  it  with 
a  list  of  words  and  some  few  remarks.  This  edition  was  transmitted  to  Dr.  Hoernle 
in  the  first  days  of  July,  1911.  Various  circumstances  have  delayed  the  publishing 
of  the  work.  Professor  Leumann's  excellent  study,  which  has  appeared  in  the 
meantime,  has  made  it  necessary  to  revise  the  manuscript  in  some  few  places.  To 
these  I  have  always  drawn  attention ;  but  I  have  not  entered  into  a  discussion 
of  such  details  as  to  which  I  am  unable  to  accept  Professor  Leumann's  explanation. 
What  I  have  aimed  at  is  to  give  an  edition  of  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript,  and 
not  a  detailed  study  of  the  language. 

Alphabet. 

The  various  signs  of  the  alphabet  are  now  well  known,  owing  to  the  careful 
investigations  of  Dr.  Hoernle  and  his  successors.  I  shall  therefore  not  discuss 
them,  but  only  briefly  notice  those  cases  in  which  I  venture  to  differ  from  Dr.  Hoernle, 
to  whose  incessant  care  we  all  are  so  largely  indebted  for  the  elucidation  of  the 
whole  matter. 

One  of  the  signs  of  «  has,  in  our  manuscript,  a  form  which  differs  somewhat 
from  that  in  use  in  other  texts.     The  full  form  of  the  matra  will  be  seen  in  iu,  the 

^  See  his  papers,  t]ber  die  einheimischen  Sprachen  von  Csttuikestan  im  fruhern 
Mittelalter,  in  the  Zeitschrift  der  Deutschen  Morgenliindischen  Gesellschaft  (ZDilG), 
vol.  xli,  pp.  648  and  S. ;  xlii,  pp.  83  and  ff. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  217 

foui-th  syllable  of  the  first  line  of  fol.  149«  in  SirAurel  Stein's  Ancient  Khotan, plate cxi. 
It  consists  of  the  sign  for  u  with  an  angular  line  enclosing  it  from  the  left.  In 
our  manuscript  the  ?<-matra  has  been  dropped,  and  the  angular  line  has  been 
continued  towards  the  right  and  joins  the  bottom  of  the  letter  to  which  it  is 
added,  thus  producing  a  lineal  triangle.  See  e.  g.  in  sutrd  1  5'".  The  whole  sign 
has  therefore  become  much  like  the  opaque  triangle  of  the  ordinary  ?«-matra,  as 
in  SuhJiuta  (fol.  5  a'^) ;  and  there  are  some  instances  of  confusion,  which  will  be 
noticed  as  they  occur.     On  this  point  Dr.  Hoernle  now  agrees  with  me. 

The  sign  which  Dr.  Hoernle  transliterated  as  w  is  practically  identical  with 
the  letter  o  in  other  connected  alphabets.^  Exactly  the  same  letter  as  that  in  use 
in  our  manuscript  I  have  found  for  o  in  Sanskrit  manuscripts  from  Turkestan, 
which  I  examined  in  Simla.  I  therefore  follow  Professor  Leumann  in  writing 
0,  and  I  do  so  with  some  confidence  because  the  common  word  o,  '  and,  or ',  must,  in 
my  opinion,  be  related  to  the  conjunction  u,  '  and  '.  When  the  a-matra  is  added  to 
this  sign  we  get  the  letter  au.  ^  I  may  add  that  Dr.  Hoernle  himself  subsequently 
admitted  the  correctness  of  the  transcription  of  the  sign  as  q.^ 

My  next  remark  refers  to  the  sign  which  Dr.  Hoernle  originally  transliterated 
tt  but  later  7it,  and  which  Professor  Leumann  writes  tt.  Dr.  Hoernle's  present 
position,  as  I  understand,  is  that  the  evidence  at  present  available  is  too  limited  to 
warrant  a  final  decision  as  to  the  exact  phonetic  value  of  the  sign  in  every  case 
in  which  it  occurs.  For  myself,  I  am  disposed  to  agree  with  Professor  Leumann, 
and  accordingly  I  transliterate  the  sign  by  tt,  unless  where  it  occurs  in  Sanskritie 
words,  and  represents  Sanskrit  nt,  as  in  hdntavdda  for  Sanskrit  hdntivadin  in  26  a". 
A  full  statement  of  my  view  I  may  postpone  for  another,  more  appropriate  occasion.* 

There  are  two  different  signs  of  r  in  our  texts,  one  which  is  the  same  as  the 
ordinary  Brahmi  r-sign,  and  another  which  is  identical  with  the  sign  which 
Messrs.  Sieg  and  Siegling  transliterate  rr  in  the  non- Aryan  language  of  Turkestan. 
This  latter  one  has  been  written  r  by  Dr.  Hoernle  and  rr  by  Professor  Leumann. 
I  have  adopted  the  latter  transliteration  in  order  to  avoid  complicating  matters 
unnecessarily. 

I  have  followed  Dr.  Hoernle  in  retaining  the  semicircular  curve  under  the  line 
to  indicate  the  curve  which  aj)pears  in  the  original  under  some  syllables,  such  as  ba 

^  See  Dr.  Stonner,  Sitzungsberichte  der  Koniglich  Preussisohen  Akademie  der  Wissen- 
schaften,  1904,  pp.  1288  and  fF.;  Prof.  Sieg,  ihidem,  1907,  p.  468. 

^  Compare  Prof.  Sieg,  I.  c. 

=  Journal  EAS.,  January,  1911,  p.  202. 

*  See  now  my  paper  Zwei  Handschriftenblatter  in  der  alten  arischen  Literatursprache 
aus  Chinesisch-Turkistan  in  Sitzungsberichte  der  Koniglich  Preussischen  Akademie  der 
Wissenschaften,  1912,  p.  1129. 


218  VAJKACCHEDIKl 

in  haysd,  old  halysa,  because  I  do  not  know  anything  about  the  phonetieal  significance 
of  the  sign.  I  think  that  Professor  Leumann  is  right  in  explaining  the  curve  as 
a  sign  that  some  sound  has  been  dropped. 

The  signs  of  interpunction  which  occur  in  our  manuscript  are  of  two  kinds. 
The  double  bar,  which  indicates  a  full  stop  in  Indian  scripts,  is  used  in  the  same 
wajr,  as  in  3  ^'"  41  aF  and  44  J\  and  especially  at  the  end  of  a  complete  verse, 
as  in  1  ^'"  2  d^  2  ¥■  '^  3  a"- "'  3  b^  38  a}^  41  h^- '"  42  a}  42  ¥•  '^  43  a"'-  But  more 
frequently  (altogether  eighty-eight  times)  we  find  another  sign,  consisting  of  a  dot 
with  or  without  a  tail,  and  used  either  singly  or  doubly.  The  single  dot  variety 
usually  (forty-eight  times)  marks  the  end  of  a  clause,  as  in  4  b^^  10  «"•  '"^  35  a}-  "• "',  &c., 
or  (eight  times)  the  end  of  a  half-verse,  as  in  2  «"'• '''  3  (/"'■  *^  42  a'"'  42  5".  The  double 
dot  variety  (resembling  the  visarga)  marks  the  end  of  a  clause,  as  in  31  a'",  or  of  a 
complete  verse,  as  in  2  ^"  42  a"'  42  i"  ;  once  exceptionally,  in  44  i"',  it  seems  to  mark 
the  end  of  a  half-verse.  Almost  equally  frequently  (thirty-five  times),  however,  the 
single  dot  has  no  other  function  than  to  fill  up  a  vacant  space  at  the  end  of  a  line, 
as  in  3  ^"  4  a},  &c.,  or  in  the  middle  of  a  line  (usually  at  the  vacant  space  con- 
taining the  string-hole),  as  in  5  i"-"*,  &c.  All  such  cases  of  a  superfluous  mark  to 
interpunction  are  noticed  in  the  footnotes. 

The  writing  is,  in  most  cases,  quite  distinct,  and  there  are  very  few  places 
where  the  reading  can  be  doubtful.  The  orthography  on  the  other  hand  is 
inconsistent,  and  there  are  numerous  instances  where  the  writer  proves  to  have  been 
careless.  Thus  a  long  passage  has  been  repeated  on  fols.  7-8 ;  words  have  been 
written  twice  over,  9  i"  37  a"^,  &c. ;  syllables  have  been  left  out  or,  sometimes, 
wrongly  added,  and  so  forth. 

Affiliation  of  the  Language. 

Professor  Leumann  ^  and  Messrs.  Sieg  and  Siegling  ^  have  independently 
recognized  that  our  language  is  identical  with  the  speech  represented  by  the 
documents  published  by  Dr.  Hoernle,^  and  which  that  latter  scholar  considered  to  be 
most  closely  related  to  the  Iranian  dialects  of  the  Pamir.  Professor  Leumann* 
classes  it  as  an  independent  branch  of  the  Aryan  family,  which  can  neither  be 

1  ZDMG.,  vol.  Ixi,  pp.  651  ff. 

^  Tocharisch,  die  Sprache  der  Indoskythen.  Vorlaufige  Bemerkungen  fiber  sine  bisher 
unbekannte  indogermanisolie  Literatursprache.  Sitzungsbericlite  der  Koniglicli  Preussi- 
schen  Akademie  der  Wissensohaften,  1908,  pp.  915  ff. 

"  A  Eeport  on  the  British  Collection  of  Antiquities  from  Central  Asia.  Extra  Number  1 
to  the  Journal  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal,  Vol.  Ixx,  Part  1,  1901.  Calcutta,  1902, 
'Brahml  Documents',  pp.  30  ff.     Also,  Journal  EAS.,  1910,  pp.  1299  ff. 

*  ZDMG.,  vol.  Ixii,  pp.  88  ff.  He  calls  it  North-aryan  in  his  new  book  Zur 
nordarisohen  Sprache  und  Literatur. 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  219 

characterized  as  Indian  nor  Iranian,  but  simply  as  Aryan.  Accordingly,  he  calls  it 
North-aryan.  On  the  other  hand.  Professor  Meillet  classes  it  as  a  specifically  Iranian 
dialect.! 

Finally,  Baron  Stael-Holstein  ^  has  maintained  that  our  language  is  Iranian, 
and  that  the  term  toyri  found  in  an  Uigur  colophon  from  Central  Asia  refers  to  it, 
and  not  to  the  language  called  Tocharisch  by  Messrs.  P.  W.  K.  Muller,^  Sieg,  and 
Siegling.*  I  feel  convinced  that  Baron  Stael-Holstein,  whose  opinion  has  been 
endorsed  by  Mr.  Emil  Smith,^  is  right  in  these  statements.  He  argues  that  iox_ri  must 
be  the  language  of  the  Tukhdras,  who  cannot,  according  to  Chinese  tradition,  be 
located  in  that  part  of  Central  Asia  where  the  so-called  Tocharisch  must  have  been 
spoken,  but  who  were,  from  ancient  times,  settled  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Khotan, 
where  the  Aryan  language  of  Turkestan  also  seems  to  have  been  spoken.  Moreover, 
he  reminds  us  of  the  fact  that  the  Kusanas  were  Tukharas,  and  that  the  title  sdhdmi 
sdhi  borne  by  their  kings  shows  that  their  language  was  of  the  same  kind  as  the 
tongue  here  under  consideration.  Finally,  he  draws  attention  to  the  statement  by 
Ibn  al  Muqaffa'  that  the  language  of  Balkh,  which  belonged  to  the  Tukhara 
empire,  was  very  similar  to  the  Persian  court  language,  which  remark  seems  to 
make  it  impossible  to  think  of  the  so-called  Tocharisch.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
Aryan  language  of  Turkestan  is,  as  I  hope  to  show,  closely  related  to  Persian. 

There  are  also  other  indications  which  point  in  the  direction  that  the  people 
who  spoke  the  language  into  which  the  Vajracchedika  was  translated,  was  of  the 
same  stock  as  the  Indo-Scythian  invaders  of  India.  The  word  urmayzidi'ii  in  the 
Vajracchedika  28«',  where  Max  Mijller's  Sanskrit  text  has  surya,  is  evidently 
a  rendering  of  Sanskrit  dditya,  which  is  often  used  in  parallel  passages.  It  is  clearly 
the  same  word  as  Old  Persian  auramazdd,  Persian  ormazd.  The  people  must, 
therefore,  have  known  the  Zoroastrian  god  as  the  deity  corresponding  to  the  Indian 
dditya.  Similarly,  representations  of  the  deities  of  the  Avesta  occur  on  the  coins  of 
the  Kusana  kings.' 

The  position  of  our  language  within  the  Aryan  family  cannot  be  finally  settled 
before  more  texts  have  been  made  available  and  the  etymological  explanation  of  the 
vocabulary  has  proceeded  further  than  is  now  the  ease.  Though  a  great  number  of 
words  can  be  satisfactorily  explained  as  Iranian,  there  remain  some  few  which  cannot 
as  yet  be    identified.     So  far  as  I  see,  however,    nothing  militates  against   the 

^  Les  Nouvelles  langues  indo-europ6eiines  trouv^es  en  Asia  Centrale,  pp.  17,  18. 

^  Tocharisch  und  die  Sprache  II.  Bulletin  de  TAcadSmie  Imp6riale  des  Sciences  de 
St.-Petersbourg,  1908,  pp.  1367  ff.;  Tocharisch  und  die  Sprache  I.;  ibidem,  1909,  pp.  479  if. 

'  SitzuDgsberichte  der  Kbniglich  Preussischen  Akademie  der  Wissenschaften,  1907, 
pp.  958  £F.  *  I.  c. 

^  Videnskabs-Selskabets  Skrifter.  II.  Hist.-filos.  Klasse,  1910.  No.  5.  Christiania,  1911. 

°  Compare  Dr.  (now  Sir  Aurel)  Stein,  Indian  Antiquary,  1888,  p.  89. 


220  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

conclusion  that  our  language  is  an  Iranian  speech,  though  there  seem  to  be  some 
foreign  elements  which  show  that  one  of  two  things  has  been  the  case.  Either  the 
language  is  borrowed,  and  the  tribe  has  once  used  a  different  form  of  speech,  or, 
what  is  in  my  opinion  the  only  likely  explanation,  it  has  come  under  the  influence 
of  alien  tongues,  which  have,  to  some  extent,  modified  it. 

FoKM  OP  THE  Language  in  odr  Manuscript. 

The  remarks  which  follow  on  phonology  and  grammar  do  not  aim  at  anything 
like  exhaustiveness.  They  are  only  offered  as  an  attempt  at  a  classification  of  some 
featui'cs  which  may  prove  of  interest  for  the  question  about  the  position  of  our 
language  within  the  Aryan  family.  The  Vajracchedika  manuscript,  on  which  they 
are  based,  is  not,  however,  so  good  that  we  can  base  absolutely  certain  conclusions 
on  it.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  far  from  being  particularly  correct  or  careful,  and, 
in  the  second  place,  it  represents  a  later  stage  in  the  development  of  our  language. 
To  show  this  it  will  be  sufficient  to  compare  a  short  passage  from  the  Samghatasutra  as 
published  in  Plate  CX  of  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ancient  Khotan,  fol.  8  a"~"',  with  a  corre- 
sponding one  from  the  Vajracchedika,  fol.  5  5^~''^-  I  give  the  two  texts  iu  parallel  lines, 
the  Samghatasutra  text  being  printed  above  in  ordinary  type  and  the  Vajracchedika 
paragraph  below  in  italics,  so  that  the  two  can  be  compared  word  for  word.  Such 
words  as  differ  materially  in  the  two  texts  have  been  printed  within  parentheses : 

tti-tii  (Sarvbasura  masta  balj'suna  vuysai)  aysan-na  panata  syandai  suti-vata 
tti  {dijrl  SubJmta)  aysam-na  patata      sail  sve 

(prahonu)  prahoste      hvarandau  ysanu  sando   (vastate)  kamu  halau  gyasta  balysa 
{clvara)    praliav^ti  u  livuranulai ysdriniu  sadya  {pdrautU)  kdihmci  hdlai  gyasta    bayscl 

asta  halsto. 
dsUi  Jidda. 

It  will  be  seen  that  in  the  ^^ajracchedika  dialect  final  vowels  are  confounded ; 
compare  the  accusative  {ctvar)d,  where  the  older  text  has  [pra7wn)u.  Sometimes  even 
a  final  vowel  is  dropped  altogether  ;  thus  haysdthnu,  laysdmnd  and  haysdih,  of  the 
buddhas. 

Further,  some  consonants  are  dropped ;  compare  balysa  and  l^aysa ;  lidlsto  and 
hdstd.  It  will  be  seen  that,  in  such  cases,  the  peculiar  semicircle  is  sometimes  added 
underneath  the  syllable. 

An  anusvara  is  commonly  added  before  a  nasal ;  thus  ysanu,  ysdihnu.  On  the 
other  hand,  a  nasal  is  often  dropped  before  a  d ;  compare  §ando,  iadya. 

Dentals  are  sometimes  replaced  by  cerebrals  ;  thus  ysdnu^  ysdrhnu  ;  hdlsto,  hdstd. 
In  the  latter  example  the  cerebralization  is  due  to  the  disappearance  of  an  I,  in  the 
former  no  reason  for  the  change  is  apparent. 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  IMl 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  Vajracchedika  forms  are,  on  the  whole,  later  and  less 
original.^  In  such  circumstances  it  would  be  unsafe  to  base  a  detailed  analysis  of  the 
whole  phonetic  and  grammatical  system  on  the  forms  occmTingin  the  Vajracchedika 
manuscript.  It  is  only  possible  to  discover  certain  tendencies  and  laws,  and  to  say 
something  about  the  inflexion  of  nouns  and  verbs,  which  may  help  us  to  define  the 
philological  position  of  the  language. 

Phonetical  System. 
Vowels. 

If  we  turn  to  the  treatment  of  vowels  we  are  at  once  faced  by  great  difficulties, 
the  difl^erent  vowels  being,  to  all  appearances,  continually  interchanged. 

The  short  a  is  apparently  liable  to  being  dropped  in  the  beginning  of  preposi- 
tions and  also  of  some  other  words ;  compare  vistdta,  placed,  Skr.  avastliap ;  hi,  Skr. 
apt,  and,  also  ;  lydta,  recollection,  Paz.  aydd'^  ;  lirdslyS,,  Skr.  mmprakdmyet,  from  Zd. 
aibi,  aiivi  and  rdz ;  iiiUd  for  ni  astii,^  is  not. 

The  short  Aryan  a  is  quite  commonly  retained  as  a  in  radical  syllables ;  thus 
ay&a,  Zd.  azam,  I ;  dasid,  Phi.  dast,  hand  ;  gyastci,  Zd.  yazafa,  Phi.  yazd,  god  ;  Jiar, 
Zd.  Jiaurva,  Phi.  Aar,  all,  and  so  on.  The  preceding  examples  will  have  shown 
that  an  old  a  is  sometimes  represented  by  a  sound  indicated  by  two  dots  above 
the  matra.  The  nature  of  this  sound  has  been  discussed  by  Messrs.  Leumann  ^  and 
Stael-Holstein,*  who  have  shown  that  it  must  have  come  very  near  to  that  of 
a  short  i.  It  seems  therefore  natural  to  compare  the  treatment  of  a  in  Persian, 
when  it  becomes  a  and,  often,  i.  The  sound  a,  for  which  we  often  find  i,  also 
occurs  in  radical  syllables  ;  thus  Jidda,  Jiidd  and  hidi,  gives  (Arj-an  '/sar,  cf.  English 
sell)  ;  mastd  and  inistd,  7A.  ma::at,  great ;  daddrd,  dddira,  didira,  so  great ;  na,  nd, 
ni,  not,  and  so  forth. 

In  older  texts  the  termination  a?ii  becomes  w.  In  the  Vajracchedika,  however, 
final  u  becomes  « ;  thus  gyastd,  god,  occurs  both  as  a  nominative  and  as  an 
accusative. 

Other  changes  are  apparently  due  to  special  causes.  Thus  the  vowel  is  often 
lengthened  by  way  of  compensation  for  lost  sounds.     Compare  dski.  Pars,  alh,  Wa\i 


1  A  fuller  discussion  of  the  question  will  now  be  found  in  Prof.  Leumann's  Zur 
uordarischen  Sprache,  pp.  57  ff. 

'  Compare  Grundriss  der  iranisohen  Philologie,  I.  i,  p.  309.  The  word  begins  with 
a  ligature  which  usually  corresponds  to  Zd.  aiwi.  In  the  Iranian  documents  discovered  in 
Turfan  the  word  sounds  'ahydd  ;  cf.  Professor  Chr.  Bartholomae,  Zum  altiranisohen  Wijrter- 
buoh.     Strassburg,  1906,  p.  25,  footnote  1. 

=  ZDMG.,  Ixi,  p.  656,  note  1.  *  Bulletin,  1908,  p.  1367,  note  2. 


222  VAJKACCHEDIKA 

yask^  Skr.  ai^u,  tear ;  ahya,  iu  an  egg,  cf.  English,  egg  from  an  old  alia ; 
ysdrd,  thousand,  Zd.  {ha),:anra.  The  diphthong  ai  of  tcaimamnd,  eyes,  cf.  Zd. 
casman,  and  the  .««  of  haudyau,  seven,  Zd.  hapta,  are  due  to  a  similar  com- 
pensation. Compare  also  Jiaurd,  gift,  but  hddd,  given,  with  Old  Irish  selb, 
possession.  The  first  u  in  forms  such  as  muhii,  me  ;  muhu-jsa,  by  me  ;  uhu-jsa,  by 
thee,  is  perhaps  due  to  the  disappearance  of  an  old  b  ;  compare  Zd.  maibya,  mdvaya, 
me  ;  iaibyd,  thee.  It  is  also  possible  that  the  u  properly  belongs  to  the  pronoun  of 
the  second  person  and  has  been  transferred  to  that  of  the  first,  while  the  opposite  has 
been  the  case  in  Zend.  The  form  uhu,  however,  is,  on  the  whole,  difficult  to  explain, 
and  it  would  be  unsafe  to  base  any  conclusions  on  it. 

In  some  few  cases  a  short  a  has  been  dropped  altogether  ;  thus  baysana^  baysana 
and  baysna,  by  the  lord  ;  pdrasa,  pdrsa  and  pdrsa,  marvellous  ;  gyasia,  Zd.  yazafa, 
god  ;  mdsid,  Zd.  9itaza(,  great;  urmayzde.  Old  Pers.  aiiramazdd,  Pers.  ormazd,  and  so 
forth. 

The  long  d  has,  on  the  whole,  been  well  preserved  in  radical  syllables.  Compare 
bydta,  Pers.  ydd,  recollection ;  bdm,  in  the  garden,  cf.  Pers.  bay ;  data,  da,  law,  Zd. 
data ;  paysdni,  I  know,  cf.  Zd.  paitizdnenfi ;  ysdninu,  knee,  Zd.  zdnu ;  mdia,  mother, 
Zd.  md/a.  In  final  syllables  we  regularly  find  a  ;  thus  mdia,  mother.  In  oui- 
manuscript  this  a  further  interchanges  with  a. 

The  short  i  has  been  well  preserved  in  many  words  such  as  bim,  bim,  bisl,  all, 
Zd.  visjM  ;  binvrrd,  f;imily,  compare  Zd.  vis ;  dirsd,  thirty,  Zd.  drisat9m ;  fird,  well, 
compare  Skr.  Siva,  German  hetier,  Old  Norse  hyrr.  It  is  a  natural  consequence  of 
the  pronunciation  of  an  old  a  that  we  sometimes  find  a,  a  used  instead.  Thus 
hasdmnd,  of  all ;  aUd,  is,  and  so  forth. 

The  long  i  has  apparently  been  preserved  in  dnya,  woman.  The  use  of  this 
word  in  several  dialects  of  the  Pamirs  and  of  the  borderland  between  India  and 
Iran  ^  as  well  as  its  occurrence  in  the  Avesta  makes  it,  I  think,  possible  to  con- 
sider it  as  a  genuine  word  in  our  language.  A  final  I  seems  to  become  a  ;  compare 
saind,  noble  girl,  Zd.  ysoidni. 

In  some  cases  I  represents  an  old  ai ;  thus  cl,  if,  Sanskrit  ced.  Compare  also 
Jwd,  Skr.  Jeta,  and  forms  such  as  cittyd,  Skr.  caitya. 

It  is  difficult  to  decide  which,  sound  is  meant  by  ai,  which  occurs  in  many  words. 
It  may  denote  an  e,  or  more  probably  an  ai,  where  the  two  vowels  are  pronounced 
separately.  It  often  owes  its  existence  to  the  addition  of  the  pronoun  «.  Examples 
are  numerous  in  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript.  We  find  this  pronoun  added  with 
the  meaning  of  an  accusative,   thus  nai  jjrraksivl,  does  not   repudiate  it,  28  0  '^. 


'  See  Sir  George  Grierson,  The  Pi^aoa  Languages  of  North-Western  India.     London, 
1906,  p.  79. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  223 

lu  numerous  cases  it  stands  for  a  genitive  ;  thus  ajamld  dastd  yudau  he  folded  his  hands 
for  him,  5  5''' ;  ttattai  ndma,  such  its  name,  22  5' ;  vydranai,  his  preaching,  27a"',  and 
so  forth.  This  pronoun  ~i  is  probably  derived  from  Old  Pers.  aita,  Zd.  aeta.  In 
other  eases  a  final  ai  must  be  traced  back  to  an  old  aa,  in  which  the  final  a  became 
i.  That  is  the  case  in  words  such  as  haysuha  vHysai,  a  bodhisattva  ;  jnsai,  a  teacher ; 
4amdai-na,  by  the  world  ;  haihjsaihdai-na,  by  one  who  has  entered ;  in  the  adjective 
suffix  inai}  and  probably  also  in  participles  such  as  bvdhai,  Skr.  hodliamya  ;  hvafiai, 
Skr.  vaktavya  ;  tcerai,  Skr.  kartavya  ;  tsunai,  Skr.  gautavya,  and  so  forth. 

When  the  adjective  suffixes  mai  and  ijd  are  added  to  bases  ending  in  a,  this 
final  a  coalesces  with  *  to  ««  or  « ;  thus  gmtaijd  and  gmtyl^  consisting  of  meat ; 
ddtlnai,  consisting  in  law. 

The  final  ai  is  perhaps  sometimes  derived  from  an  old  at  or  ae,  where  the  final 
'i  or  e  may  represent  the  same  termination  which  forms  the  oblique  base  in 
Pehlevl.^  Thus  /wanai,  of  the  word,  22  b^'^ ;  stnyai,  of  a  woman,  21  a"^  ;  ttye  hvaye 
hvanai,  after  this  word  had  been  said ;  hdlai,  in  the  direction  of,  and  so  forth. 

Forms  such  as  drrai,  three,  Zd.  drdyo ;  paihcdsai,  five  hundred,  Skr.  paiicam/i, 
are  now  easily  explained.  In  biswrrdsai,  son  of  a  noble  family,  the  ai  is  perhaps 
derived  from  an  old  aia  ;  compare  Zd.  ylaeta  ;  in  the  corresponding  feminine 
hisivndsaind  the  diphthong  ai  is  perhaps  due  to  the  dropping  of  an  old  dental 
spirant ;  compare  Zd.  ■)(Soidni. 

In  verbs  such  as  daittd,  sees,  Zd.  dlhditi ;  saittd,  seems,  Zd.  sahayeiti,  we  find  ai 
instead  of  an  old  aya,  and  the  case  is  probably  similar  in  unidentified  words  such  as 
pva'idd,  fear  ;  bajaitti,  21  a' ;  ccJiaim,  2  U,  and  so  forth. 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  ai  always  results  from  a  secondary  combination  of 
a  vowel  and  a  following  i  or  %  whether  these  sounds  represent  an  old  z-sound  or  an 
old  a-sound,  while  the  old  ai  regularly  becomes  i. 

The  treatment  of  the  vowels  u,  u  and  an  is  parallel  to  that  of  i,  i  and  ai.  U 
and  u  apparently  retain  their  character  as  2<-sounds,  and  au  becomes  u ;  thus  bustd, 
understood,  Zd.  busta ;  ustama,  utmost,  Zd.  ustmna ;  purd,  son,  Zd.  puQra ;  huna, 
dream,  cf.  Zd.  y^afna,  Pali  mpina;  drruja,  lie,  Zd.  druju;  cjuitaijd,  consisting  of 
meat,  cf.  Phi.  ^o*i!;  (jund,  qualities,  7i^.  gaona,  and  so  forth.  If  bidi,  27a^\  has  any- 
thing to  do  with  the  base  Zd.  bH,  Skr.  b/iii,  we  must  compare  Persian  bid,  become, 
Latin  fio,  &c. 

The  fact  that  an  old  d  and  an  old  i  are  shortened  in  final  syllables  makes  it 
certain  that  the  final  «  in  ysdmmi,  knee,  is  not  identical  with  the  «  in  Zd.  zdnu,  but 
is  derived  from  an  older  ua.  The  base  would  then  be  zdnua  or  zdnuka.  I  have  no 
other  materials  which  allow  us  to  follow  the  history  of  a  final  u. 


1  See  Prof.  Leumann,  ZDMG.,  Ixii,  p.  109.  ^  See  Grundriss,  I.  i,  pp.  275  ff. 


224  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

The  diphthong  m  in  gruicyau,  with  the  sands,  is  derived  from  an  old  u.  I  am 
inclined  to  identify  the  suffix  of  this  word  with  the  Pehlevi  suffix  cak,  icak^  and  the 
I-  of  grui-  would  then  find  its  explanation.  The  base  of  the  word  is  probably  the 
same  as  in  English  grit,  groat,  grout,  Lithuanian  grudas,  Latin  rudus. 

A  sound  written  au  is  sometimes  used  in  loanwords  in  order  to  represent  a  Skr. 

0  ;  thus  haudJiisatva,  prayaugdna,  sdhJiaugt.     In  words  such  as  Iiaurii,  gift;  tcahawa, 

four ;  skaumatcl  and  skamavdm,  tangible  things,  it  perhaps  represents  an  old  fi.     If 

this  is  so,  the  spelling  an  would  indicate  that  the  broad  pronunciation  of  a,  which  we 

know  from  Persian,  had  already  set  in  in  our  language.     Where  the  history  of  the 

sound  au  can  be  traced,  however,  it  always  turns  out  to  be  a  secondary  product.     Its 

most  common  occurrence  is  in  the  oblique  plural ;  compare  forms  such  as  gyastyau 

haysyau-jsa,  by  the  buddhas.     This  suffix  is  no  doubt  identical  with  the  suffixes  aw, 

ew,  ill',  ef,  which  form  an  oblique  plural  in  the  Pamirs,^  and  which  Professor  Geiger 

justly  derives  from  the  old  plural  suffixes   6is,   byo,  wyo,  vyo.     In  words  such  as 

tcaimauda,  having  eyes  ;  ksamautitijii,  consisting  in  being  enduring  (Skr.  ksamdvat), 

the  au  is  the  result  of  coalescence  of  a  final  a  with  a  form  of  the   suffix   vant. 

Ft   has   become  ud  in   haudyau,    seven,    and  perhaps  in  jidratitta,    which  renders 

Skr.    pratistjiita,    cf.    Zd;    rap.     It   is   possible  that  au  represents   an   old    au  in 

words  such  as  o,  au,  and,  or,  cf.   Gr.  av  ;  anau,  without,  cf.   Gr.  avtv?     In  all  cases 

where  the  etymology  is  certain,  however,  au  is  a  secondary  development,  and  the 

regular  representative  of  the  old  diphthong  au  is  %. 

The  old  r-vowel  only  occurs  in  some  few  words  in  my  materials.  It  has 
apparently  retained  its  r-element,  and  has  then  been  treated  as  an  ordinary  ;'.  Thus 
it  coalesces  with  a  following  t  to  <■/ ;  compare  kidna,  for  the  sake  of,  Skr.  krtena. 
It  becomes  I  before  s-sounds  in  word  such  as  baysa,  older  halysa,  the  Lord,  cf.  Zd. 
ierezunl.' 

The  preceding  remarks  will  have  shown  that  the  main  principles  according  to 
which  vowels  have  developed  are  the  same  as  in  Iranian  tongues.  The  examination 
of  the  further  history  of  Aryan  vowels  in  the  Aryan  language  of  Turkestan  I  shall 
not  attempt  in  this  place.  In  order  to  do  so  it  would  be  necessary  to  compare  texts 
in  the  older  and  more  original  orthography.     The  various  rules  according  to  which 

'  See  Grundriss,  I.  ii,  p.  315. 

2  See  Mr.  E.  Smith,  I.  c,  p.  3. 

^  The  word  halysa  is  apparently'  an  old  a-Lase,  and  not  a  mi-base.  Professor  Leumanii, 
Zur  nordarisclien  Sprache,  pp.  62  ff.,  identifies  balgsd  with  Skr.  brahma  and  compares  Latin 
Jlamen.  In  that  case  it  would  be  necessary  to  separate  balgsd  from  German  berg,  and 
to  suppose  that  brahma,  jpriest,  was  an  Indo-European  word ;  and  there  would  still  remain 
the  difficulty  of  explaining  the  disappearance  of  tlie  guttural  in  Lutin  flamen.  I  think  the 
late  Professor  Bugge's  explanation  oiflamen  as  derived  from  the  same  base  as  Old  Norwegian 
biota,  to  sacrifice,  is  much  preferable. 


IN   THE   OLD  KHOTANESE   VEESION  225 

vowels  modify  each  other  or  are  influenced  by  preceding  or  following  sounds,  the 
development  of  final  vowels,  and  numerous  other  interesting  questions  must  be  left 
to  be  settled  in  future. 

Consonants. 

Turning  to  consonants,  we  may  note  at  once  that  soft  aspirates  only  'occur 
in  loanwords.  In  indigenous  words  they  have,  in  most  respects,  shared  the  fate  of 
iinaspirated  voiced  stops. 

Another  peculiarity,  of  which  numerous  examples  have  already  been  given,  is 
that  all  final  consonants  are  dropped. 

Some  few  remarks  must  suffice  to  show  how  consonants  are  treated  in  other 
positions,  so  far  as  the  matter  is  of  interest  for  settling  the  relationship  of  our 
language  within  the  Aryan  family. 

^'oiceless  unaspirated  stops  are  comparatively  well  preserved  as  uncompound 
initials.  Thus  kcvmuja,  any  one  ;  camda.  Phi.  cand,  how  much  ;  tcaimamna,  eyes,  Zd. 
cahiian  ;  tcahanrd,  four,  Zd.  caBvdro  ;  tta,  thus,  Zd.  ta-  ;  ttdra,  darkness,  Zd.  ta,6ra. 
Phi.  tar  ;  pa,  pa,  foot,  Zd.  pdha  ;  /j«7;'«,  son,  Zd.  pudra.  It  will  be  seen  that  an 
old  c  becomes  both  c  and  tc.  The  latter  seems  to  be  used  before  Indo-European  e. 
Instead  of  an  old  t  we  regularly  find  tt.  In  some  few  cases  such  as  diclira, 
so  great ;  -dirsd,  thirty,  an  initial  t  has  become  d  ;  compare  the  treatment  of  old  tr. 

Between  vowels  and  apparently  also  after  nasals  all  these  consonants  are  often 
modified.  The  general  tendency  seems  to  have  been  as  in  PehlevI  to  pronounce 
them  with  voice,  and  both  languages  agree  in  retaining  an  intervocalic  k  longer 
thaii  the  rest.  T  is  also  often  retained  in  writing.  Its  pronunciation,  however, 
must  have  been  weak,  as  it  is  often  dropped,  or  also  replaced  by  t/  or  v.  It  seems 
therefore  likely  that  it  has  had  the  same  pronunciation  as  in  Persian,  viz.  that  of 
a  soft  spirant.  Compare  7;/^a;'a/("«  and  pliard,  many  ;  lova,  Skr.  loka  ;  pamjsdmu,  with 
fifty,  but  also  paihcdsai,  probably  pronounced  pamjsdsai,  five  hundred  ;  pajsa,  five  ; 
/lamjsamdaina,  going  on  ;  idd  (in  older  texts  indd),  are  ;  data  and  dd,  law,  Zd.  data  ; 
hyata,  Pers.  ydd,  recollection  ;  ysdta,ygdya  and  ysd,  born,  Zd.  zdta;  paysdihda,  known, 
Ti^. paitizanta  ;  Subhuta  and  Suhhuva,  Subhuti ;  bi,  and,  also,  Zd.  aipi ;  Jiaihberi,  filling, 
Zd.  Jiam-par ;  savi,  night,  Zd.  x^'^P'  ^^^  ^o  forth.  In  the  case  of  intervocalic  pi, 
the  rule  seems  to  be  that  it  is  changed  to  v ;  thus  avamdta,  unmeasured,  but  pamdka ; 
avdrantta,  not  attached,  but  pdrautta ;  avdyvd,  in  the  a.payas,  and  so  forth.  The 
whole  state  of  afiairs  seems  to  show  that  at  least  t  and  p  between  vowels  were  liable 
to  be  pronounced  as  soft  spirants. 

Such  spirants  were  perhaps  also  developed  in  consonantal  compounds.  The 
disappearance  of  an  old  t  in  words  such  as  piira,  son,  Zd.  pzidra,  7ersia,n  piir  ;  saifid, 
a  noble  lady,  Zd.  -xsoiOni,  and  other  similar  features  point  in  that  direction.  It  is 
a   well-known  fact  that  this  use  of   spirants  is  a  characteristic  feature  of  most 


226  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

Iranian  languages,  though  the  spirants  may  be  subsequently  changed  to  other 
sounds  as  in  Baluci. 

Among  compound  consonants  we  can  here  abstract  from  such  as  begin  with  an  s. 
They  are  well  preserved  ;  compare  cluskara,  difficult,  marvellous  ;  vistdta,  placed,  cf. 
Zd.  avastd ;  dsta,  sits,  stays,  Skr.  dste ;  stnya,  woman,  Zd.  dri.  St  has  become  U 
under  the  influence  of  a  following  i  in  astd,,  is,  &c.  The  forms  sta,  stands; 
4ana,  dd,  standing,  being,  on  the  other  hand,  owe  their  .rf  to  the  disappearance 
of  an  old  guttural ;  cf.  Zd.  x^td.  St  remains  in  words  such  as  vhtdiid,  Skr.  sthdtavya; 
hyusteye,  from  vi  and  -/  vas ;  luM,  eighty,  Zd.  astdituii,  and  so  forth.  It  becomes 
U,  perhaps  under  the  influence  of  an  i,  in  words  such  as  MUa,  sits ;  baysmta, 
buddhahood  ;  i/nixfu,  destruction  ;  (janUta,  moisture  ;  g%ita,  meat,  &c.  The  sufiix 
occurring  in  the  last  four  of  these  words  is  probably  the  same  iU  which  is  used  in 
Persian  dialects.' 

If  we  turn  to  other  compounds  we  shall  find  that  /*  becomes  ks  in  kfird,  in  the 
town,  cf.  Zd.  yJsaQra  ;  kmsamye,  sixteenth,  c£  Zd.  ylvas,  six.  In  other  cases  it  becomes 
s ;  thus  savi,  night,  Zd.  yiap ;  sai,  a  noble  man,  son,  Zd.  y^salta.  This  state 
of  affairs  seems  to  point  to  the  existence  of  a  guttural  spirant.  The  same  result 
would  also  seem  to  follow  from  the  use  of  a  kh  in  words  such  as  kliu,  how,  as.  This 
word  is  apparently  derived  from  some  form  corresponding  to  Skr.  katJiam,  Zd.  kaQa. 
It  is  of  course  impossible  to  state  with  certainty  which  sound  is  meant  by  kh. 
Still  the  fact  that  in  av.hadiiMa,  42  5'",  kli  is  substituted  for  a  Skr.  hkh,  while  the 
simple  h  replaces  a  kh,  seems  to  show  that  the  sound  intended  was  not  the  voiceless 
aspirated  stop.  In  the  manuscript  of  the  Vajracchedika  this  kli  further  oceui-s  in 
the  loanword  samkhyerma,  Skr.  ■samglidrdme,  and  in  words  such  as  khdysa,  food ; 
khdysna-Mrd,  food  prepai'ation  ;  khdymmld,  42  i"  ;  garklid,  2 15'' ;  Iiamkklysd,  used 
to  translate  Skr.  samkhyd  ;  anamkkista,  untold,  and  ImmkhUa-ysuya,  9  a''',  which 
corresponds  to  mmgrlata  and  means  '  produced  in  reckoning  ',  '  concerned  '.  Com- 
pare the  use  of  the  word  in  one  of  the  documents  published  by  Dr.  Hoernle.^ 
Haihklilysd,  hamkJma-ysdya  and  anariikliUta  all  belong  together  and  must  be 
compared  with  Zd.  aJiamylta^  where  we  again  find  a  guttural  spirant.  It  is  then 
possible  that  the  same  is  the  case  with  khdysa,  food,  whether  this  word  is  connected 
with  Skr.  khdd,  Pers.  ydyldan,  or  with  Skr.  glias. 

I  have  no  certain  examples  of  the  treatment  of  an  old  c  in  compounds. 
Gy  becomes  ts  in  the  base  tsn,  to  go,  and  the  same  compound  apparently  represents 
an  old  c  between  vowels  in  words  such  as  Iiamtsa,  with,  cf.  Zd.  haca,  Skr.  mcd ; 
pyamtsa,  in  front,  used  to  translate  'S^ix.  2nati'Muklia,  cf.  Ti^.  paityq.^. 

^  See  Grundriss,  I.  ii,  p.  182. 

"  Report,  p.  38.  Prof.  Lijumann,  Zui'  nordarischen  Spraohe,  p.  69,  has  overlooked  this 
passage. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  227 

No  conclusion  as  to  the  existence  of  spirants  can  be  drawn  from  the  treatment 
of  the  compounds  tt  and  rt.  The  former  becomes  d  as  in  Zd.  and  other  Iranian 
tongues,  and  the  latter  becomes  </,  compare  Afghan  r ;  thus  hastamd,  best,  Zd. 
Tiastdma  ;  kulna,  for  the  sake  of,  Skr.  krtena. 

In  other  compounds  beginning  with  t,  the  state  of  affairs  seems  to  be  as  follows. 
The  t  of  the  compound  tn  disappears  in  saifiCl,  a  noble  woman,  a  daughter,  Zd. 
Xsoidnl.  Ty  becomes  th  in  hatha,  true,  Zd.  haiQya.  Tr  becomes  drr  when  it  is 
initial,  and  r  between  vowels  ;  compare  drrai,  three,  Zd.  drdyo  ;  purii,  son,  Zd.  puQra. 
Tv  apparently  becomes  tk  when  initial  and  after  a  nasal,  and  h  between  vowels. 
Compare  thv,  thou,  Zd.  dvq^tn ;  ymihtha,  birth,  cf.  Zd.  zanlu ;  tcahaurd,  four,  Zd. 
caOvuro.  The  disappearance  of  t  in  some  of  these  compounds  and  its  change  to  d 
in  others  point  to  the  conclusion  that,  as  the  first  part  of  a  compound,  t  became 
the  dental  spirant  6,  the  sound  of  English  th,  and  that  this  d  became  voiced  in 
words  such  as  drrai,  three.  Th  and  th  probably  only  note  various  modifications  of 
this  e. 

The  sign  th  occurs  in  some  other  words  such  as  kltha,  in  the  town,  from  kantha, 
town,  4«'"'^'';  tha,  2«*";  tliyau,  quickly,  30  a*",  and  the  loanword  tathdgata.  It 
is  difficult  to  judge  about  these  cases.  So  far  as  we  can  see,  an  intervocalic  old  th 
becomes  h  ;  thus  gdha,  a  verse,  Zd.  (jd0a. 

Of  compounds  containing  a  p  as  first  component,  I  have  only  found  pt,  pn,  and 
in- ;  compare  haudyau,  seven,  Zd.  hapta  ;  sicti,  sve,  shoulder,  Zd.  supti ;  hwna,  dream, 
Zd.  y^'ofna,  Pali  supina.  It  will  be  seen  that,  in  all  these  cases,  the  old  jj  has  become 
w,  which  coalesces  with  a  preceding  a  to  au  and  with  a  preceding  u  to  u  or  u.  It 
seems  probable  that  we  have  here  to  do  with  a  change  from  jo  to./,  and  a  secondary 
softening  of  this  f  to  w,  n.  At  all  events,  the  forms  just  cited  add  strength  to 
the  supposition  that  the  dialect  possesses  spirants  of  the  same  kind  as  those  found 
in  most  Iranian  tongues. 

The  sound  written  ph  in  hampjhva,  endowed  with  ;  pliisdna,  that  should  be 
separated  from  ;  ndsphdfm,  I  might  produce ;  phardha  and  phara,  many,  is  perhaps 
in  reality  any. 

Pr  becomes  hrr  in  brraste,  asked  ;  hrruhadd,  in  the  morning.  B  here  probably 
denotes  the  soft  spirant  to  ;  compare  the  parallel  development  of  the  compound  tr. 

I  am  unable  to  say  anything  about  the  sound  of  ch  in  words  such  as  cchaua, 
pachlysdd,  vajrracheddka,  vyachi,  vyachdihud,  and  others.  Most  of  them  are  probably 
loanwords.  The  word  l)iche,  lies  down,  is  probably  connected  with  Hindustani 
bichnd. 

Turning  now  to  voiced  stops,  whether  they  were  originally  aspirated  or  not, 
it  will  be  seen  that  they  are  fairly  well  preserved  as  initials.  Compare  gard, 
mountain,  Zd.  gairi ;   gund,  qualities,  Zd.  gaoiia ;  jsdti,  goes,  cf  Zd.  jas ;  jdri,  i.  e. 

q2 


228  VAJRACCHEDIKl 

jiydri,  they  disappear,  cf.  Zd.  jya ;  clasav,  ten,  Zd.  ilam ;  c/afc,  da,  law,  Zd. 
f/afo  ;  hista,  known,  realized,  Zd.  huda,  and  so  forth.  When  occurring  between 
vowels,  the  soft  guttural  and  dental  are  apparently  dropped,  the  palatal  remains  or 
becomes  s,  §,  i.  e.  z,  z,  and  the  labial  becomes  w,  written  I  oy  v ;  thus  drruja,  lie, 
Zd.  drujo  ;  pa,  pa,,  foot,  Zd.  paha  ;  dvdsi,  i.  e.  dvas-si,  twelve  hundred,  of.  Zd.  dvddasa  ; 
hve,  I  understand,  Zd.  laiile  \  lyata,  recollection,  cf.  Zd.  aiwi  and  Pers.  yad,  and  so 
forth. 

The  compounds  containing  voiced  stops  do  not  teach  us  anything  more  about 
the  matter.  The  words  just  cited  will  have  shown  that  the  compounds  dv  and  dr 
remain.  Zd  remains  in  nrmaysde,  sun,  Old  Pers.  aiiramazdd.  Most  of  the 
compounds  occurring  in  the  text,  however,  consist  of  an  old  voiced  consonant 
followed  by  a  voiceless  stop,  and  in  such  cases  the  former  is,  as  usual,  treated  as  if  it 
were  voiceless. 

With  regard  to  nasals  we  may  note  the  palatalization  of  an  n  under  the 
influence  of  a  ^  or  i  and  the  disappearance  of  n  in  the  conjunct  nd,  old  nt ;  thus  ana, 
other,  Zd.  anya ;  saidii,  old  sahidi,  they  appear ;  compare  also  kUha,  in  the  town, 
from  kantka,  town. 

The  letter  y  when  initial  becomes  gy  in  gyasta,  god,  Zd.  yazata.  This  gy  is,  in 
later  texts,  written  j^  and  there  cannot,  I  think,  be  much  doubt  that  it  was 
pronounced  as  the  Indian  /,  and  that  we  are  here  face  to  face  with  the  same  tendency 
as  in  Persian,  to  change  an  initial  y  to  j.  After  consonants  a  y  apparently  disappears 
after  causing  various  changes  in  the  preceding  sounds.  Compare  nasta,  he  sat 
down  ;  kira,  business,  Zd.  kairya  ;  mahriydmud,  in  the  mahdydna  ;  hatha,  true,  Zd. 
Jiaidya,  and  so  forth. 

As  has  already  (p.  217)  been  remarked,  there  are  two  different  forms  of  r,  one 
which  is  probably  the  Indian  r,  and  another,  which  I  follow  Professor  Leumann  in 
transliterating  rr.  We  find  the  latter  used  as  an  initial  in  rri,  king  ;  rrasta,  right ; 
between  vowels  in  parrmka  ;  and  frequently  in  compounds  after  h,  c,  d,j,  m,  v,  and 
sometimes  ;; ;  thus  Irriya,  brru  and  brw,  end,  drrai,  didrrdma,  drruja,  vajrra,  ha.mrrastu, 
binvrrd  and  hisivrd,  prrahhdvana,  and  so  forth.  After  g  there  are  only  examples  of 
the  ordinary  r ;  thus  hamgn,  present ;  gnncyait,  with  the  sands.  The  ordinary  r  is 
also  common  between  vowels  and  after  ^  and  /.  I  am  unable  to  make  anything  out 
of  this  state  of  affairs. 

It  will  be  seen  from  many  of  the  words  quoted  above  that  an  r  which  forms 
part  of  consonantal  compounds  is  largely  preserved,  just  as  is  the  case  in  Persian 
and  other  Iranian  tongues.     Compare  also  d^ki,  Pers.  ask,  Waxi  yask,  but  Zd.  asrw, 


'  See  Dr.  Hoernle,  JEAS.,  1911,  p.  473,  and  two  further  instances,  ibid.,  p.  469. 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEKSION  229 

tear ;  Imr,  Pers.  and  Phi.  har,  but  Zd.  haiirva,  all ;  kamalu,  Phi.  Jcamdl,  but  Zd. 
haiiioraha,  head,  in  all  which  words  there  is  a  marked  correspondence  with  Persian. 

As  in  Persian,  an  initial  v  often  becomes  h  ;  thus  Una,  all,  Zd.  vlspa  ;  ^i/w,  much, 
cf.  Zd.  vahjali,  Pers.  ^z'/?,  &c.  It  is  probable  that  h  in  such  cases  still  denotes  a 
bilabiar  voiced  spirant.  As  in  Persian,  we  often  also  find  v  ;  thus  vasta,  reads. 
Sv  becomes  s  in  huiX,  all,  and  sv  has  developed  to  Jiv  in  hvanai,  in  the  saying,  cf. 
Zd.  y^a7i ;  hvatjii,  eaten,  cf.  Zd.  )("ar.  It  is  therefore  difficult  to  compare  ysvamiid, 
that  can  be  tasted,  with  Skr.  svddaniya  otherwise  than  by  assuming-  it  to  be  an  early 
loanword. 

In  the  treatment  of  sibilants  our  language  mainly  agrees  with  Old  Iranian. 

&  becomes  s  or,  before  i  or  y,  i ;  thus  «a,  se,  hundred,  Zd.  satdw, ;  sve,  shoulder, 
Zd.  supti ;  pcmjsdsaii,  with  fifty,  cf.  Zd.  pancdsat ;  ^Irix,  well,  cf.  Skr.  iivci.  Similarly 
we  sometimes  find  s  in  Persian.'^ 

S  is,  as  we  have  already  seen,  usually  retained  in  compounds.  It  is  difficult  to 
ascertain  how  it  is  treated  in  other  positions.  The  curious  jironoun  si,  sa,  fem.  sd, 
he,  is  perhaps  connected  with  Zd.  aesa ;  or  else  it  may  be  the  sandhi  form  which  the 
Aryan  base  sa  would  assume  after  i  or  u.^  In  tcai?nam)ia,' eyes,  Zd.  casman,  an  s  has 
apparently  been  dropped.     Similar  forms  occur  in  many  Iranian  tongues.^ 

The  old  Aryan  dental  s  remains  in  compound  letters  before  stops.  Numerous 
examples  have  been  given  of  this  feature,  and  I  need  not  repeat  them  in  this  place. 
In  other  positions  we  find  the  common  Iranian  change  of  s  to  Ii,  and  this  h  is, 
further,  often  dropped.  Compare  har,  all,  Zd.  Iiaurva;  hatha,  true,  Zd.  haidya; 
anai'iikJiista,  untold,  but  hamkhtysa,  enumeration.  Before  an  n  the  dental  s  remains 
as  in  Zd.,  but  is  softened  to  z,  written  ys;  thus  ysndtd,  washed,  Zd.  sna.  I  am 
unable  to  state  how  s  is  treated  before  m. 

The  common  tendency  to  pronounce  single  consonants  with  voice  between  vowels 
is  illustrated  by  the  word  hanysdri,  would  get  frightened.  This  word  is  clearly 
connected  with  Persian  hirdsulan,  but  I  doubt  that  the  derivation  of  this  word  from 
a  noun  corresponding  to  Skr.  trdsa  is  correct. 

The  preceding  remarks  will  have  shown  that  words  such  as  namasumnd,  I  do 
obeisance  to  ;  dysaih,  seat ;  aysura,  Skr.  asura  ;  navdysye,  cf.  Skr.  nivdsya,  must  be  loan- 
words. The  regular  treatment  of  an  intervocalic  s  is  seen  in  the  examples  given 
above  and  in  the  locative  plural  clrrayvd  ardyvd,  in  the  three  apayas.* 

The  soft  palatal  sibilants  become  ys,  i.  e.  z,  as  in  Zd.  and  not/  as  in  Skr. ;  thus. 


'   GrundrisSj  I.  ii,  p.  87. 

^  Compare  the  treatment  of  the  reflexive  pronoun  se  and  the  demonstrative  *si  in  Old 
Persian,  Grundriss,  I.  i,  p.  184. 

'  Compare  Professor  Paul  Horn,  Grundriss  der  neupersischen  Etymologie,  No.  440. 
*  Three  apayas  are  mentioned  in  the  Lalitavistara,  ed.  Lefmann,  p.  196". 


230  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

ysaihtJiu,  birth,  Zd.  zantu ;  ysdilinu,  knee,  Zd.  zanu  ;  aysd,  I,  Zd.  azr?m  ;  ysara,  thousand, 
Zd.  hazanra.  It  is  notable  that  the  word  for  '  hand '  is  dastd  as  in  Old  Persian,  and 
not  zaBta  as  in  Zd.  The  wide  distribution  of  this  form  in  Iranian  tongues  ^  makes 
it  improbable  that  it  has  been  borrowed  from  Standard  Persian. 

Finally  I  may  note  that  the  use  of  a  prefixed  li,  which  is  well  known  in  PehlevI 
and  later  dialects,  is  also  found  in  our  language  ;  thus  hamdara,  another,  cf  Skr. 
antara  ;  kastd,  eighty,  Phi.  liaUat. 

It  will  be  seen  that,  on  the  whole,  our  language  agrees  with  the  Iranian 
tongues  in  phonology.  In  this  connexion  it  is  also  of  interest  to  note  that  there  are 
not,  to  all  appearances,  any  old  cerebral  stops.  Such  as  existj  are  found  in  the 
compound  st  and  in  such  cases  where  an  old  rt  has  become  (/,  but  never,  so  far  as  my 
materials  go,  as  initials.  A  cerebral  n  is  written,  after  the  fashion  of  the  Sanskrit 
alphabet,  in  words  such  as  Jiai'ixlardnu,  but  also  in  words  such  as  ysamnu,  knee,  older 
ysdnu,  where  there  is  no  reason  for  using  it.  I  suppose  it  to  be  nothing  else  than 
a  semi-learned  orthograph}-. 

Inflexional   System. 

Nouns. 

It  has  been  shown  above  that  final  vowels  are  commonly  shortened,  and 
further  that  they  are,  in  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript,  to  a  great  extent  confounded. 
Through  the  dropping  of  final  consonants  many  vowels  have  become  final,  which,  at 
an  older  stage,  were  followed  by  consonants.  It  is  therefore  evident  that  the 
inflexion  of  nouns  and  verbs  must  differ  widely  from  that  which  we  know  from  Old 
Persian  and  Zend. 

The  distinction  between  the  genders  is  apparently  the  same  as  in  Old  Iranian. 
Thus  we  have  masculines  such  as  gyastd,  god  ;  feminines  such  as  mdta,  mother,  and 
neuter  nouns  such  as  tcemd,  eye.  The  feminine  is  apparently  formed,  as  in  Old 
Iranian,  by  means  of  the  sufl5xes  d  and  l.  In  cases  such  as  hislvrrd-sai ,  a  son  of 
noble  family ;  J/mvrrd-gcdnd,  daughter  of  noble  family,  we  find  a  feminine  suffix  nd, 
which  must  be  derived  from  an  older  m ;  compare  Zd.  xsaeta,  xsoidm. 

There  are  no  certain  traces  of  the  dual ;  and,  as  a  consequence  of  the  confusion 
between  final  vowels  prevailing  in  our  manuscript,  it  is  often  difficult  to  distinguish 
between  the  singular  and  the  plural.  Thus  we  find  avamdta  gyastd  baysd,  untold 
buddhas,  '-25  a}'^,  where  we  should  expect  gyasta  iaysa,  and  where  older  texts  would 
give  gyasta  talysa.  Most  of  the  nouns  occurring  in  our  materials  are  a-bases,  and  in 
them  the  difference  would  rarely  be  noticeable  in  our  manuscript.  The  only 
consonantal  bases  which  ocem-  in  the  Vajracchedika  are  hve,  a  man,  gen.  hvamlu  ; 

^  See  Professor  Paul  Horn,  I.  c,  No.  567. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  231 

tcemd,  eye,  Zd.  cabman,  of  which  the  phiral  is  tceimi'iMd,  tcaimamud ;  mdia,  mother ; 
rri,  king,  gen.  rnimila,  and  iirmayzde,  the  sun,  gen.  unnaysddvi.. 

The  number  of  cases  has  necessarily  become  limited.  According  to  Dr.  Salemann,^ 
there  must,  in  Old  Middle  Persian,  have  been  a  time  when  the  inflexion  of  nouns,  at 
least  in  the  singular,  was  restricted  to  two  cases,  a  casus  rectus  or  nominative,  and 
an  oblique  case,  the  old  genitive.  The  state  of  affairs  in  our  language  represents  an 
older  stage  of  development.  Professor  Leumann^  has  put  together  some  facts 
bearing  on  the  question  about  the  declension  of  bases  ending  in  a  and  aa.  He 
distinguishes  a  nominative  ending  in  d,  ai,  respectively ;  an  accusative  ending  m 
V,  an,  respectively,  a  locative  ending  in  d,  ai,  respectively ;  a  nominative  plural 
ending  in  a,  a,  respectively,  and  a  genitive  plural  ending  in  dtm.  Thus  from  the 
bases  data,  law ;  ddtinaa,  belonging  to  the  law,  he  gives  the  following  forms  : 


Sing. 

Plur. 

Nom. 

ddtci,  ddtlnai 

data,  ddtlnd 

Ace. 

ddtu,  ddtlnau 

Gen. 

ddtdnu,  ddtl; 

Loc. 

ddtci,  ddtlnai 

It  will  be  seen  that,  in  the  singular,  we  have  two  terminations,  an  d  or  i  in  the 
nominative  and  locative,  and  a  m  in  the  accusative.  The  latter  is  certainly  derived 
from  an  old  am,  the  former  seems  to  have  a  double  origin.  The  termination  of  the 
nominative  is  derived  from  an  old  Aryan  as,  while  the  locative  termination  represents 
an  old  di  or  asya. 

I  now  turn  to  an  examination  of  the  forms  occurring  in  the  Vajracchedika. 
Here  final  a,  d,  i,  and  u  have  been  confounded,  and,  in  the  singular,  we  apparently 
only  possess  one  case,  ending  in  d  or  i.  By  comparing  the  older  forms  cited  by 
Professor  Leumann,  however,  it  becomes  possible  to  draw  up  a  fairly  complete  table 
of  the  inflexion  of  a-bases. 

The  nominative  singular  is  formed  by  substituting  d  or  i  for  the  final  a  ;  thus 
laysd,  the  Lord ;  gyastd,  a  venerable  one.  If  the  theme  ends  in  aa,  ia,  or  ua,  the 
termination  of  the  nominative  becomes  ai,  I,  u,  respectively ;  thus  haysumia  vuysai, 
a  Bodhisattva ;  dsirl,  a  monk ;  hdru,  a  merchant.  The  corresponding  form  in  Old 
Persian  ends  in  a,  and  it  is  possible  to  derive  the  termination  d,  i  directly  from 
this  a. 

The  accusative  singular,  which  in  the  older  form  of  the  language  ended  in  m, 
has  in  the  Vajracchedika  the  same  form  as  the  nominative.  That  was  already  the 
case  in  the  older  form  of  the  language  in  bases  ending  in  ia  and  ua. 

The  form  called  locative  by  Professor  Leumann  is  in  reality  an  oblique  base 

1  Grundriss,  I.  i,  p.  276.  2  ZDMG.,  vol.  Ixii,  p.  109. 


232  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

which  can  be  used  as  a  genitive,  dative,  instrumental  and  locative ;  thus  gyasiii 
baysa,  of  the  Buddha,  30a  ^;  baudliisatvdt/dmnJ,  by  one  who  wanders  on  the  path  of 
the  Bodhisattvas,  31  a^'^ ;  vstamdjui  Idrjd,  usiamauysye  pamcdmi,  in  the  last  time,  in 
the  last  five  hundred  years,  30  5"'-  It  will  be  seen  that  the  termination  of  this  case 
is  the  same  as  that  of  the  nominative.  It  must,  however,  have  a  different  origin. 
A  priori  it  is  probable  that  it  is  the  old  genitive,  and  there  is  not,  I  think,  anything 
to  make  such  an  explanation  impossible.  It  is  possible  that  the  oblique  form 
contains,  not  the  old  suffix  /*y«,  but  a  different  termination,  identical  with  that 
used  in  Zd.  genitives  such  as  dahdkdi. 

The  meaning  of  this  oblique  form  is  often  strengthened  by  means  of  additions 
which  look  like  postpositions.  The  most  common  ones  in  the  Vajracchedika  a,rejsa 
and  na,  both  of  which  are  used  with  the  meaning  of  an  instrumental  or  an  ablative  ; 
thus  mmtd-jsa,  with  killing,  25  5"  ;  gyada  haysa-na,  by  the  Buddha ;  dysam-na, 
from  the  seat.  So  far  as  we  can  judge  from  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript,  both 
additions  usually  have  the  meaning  of  an  instrumental,  and  it  would  be  tempting  to 
explain  them  as  instrumental  suffixes,  the  more  so  as  it  would  be  easy  to  find 
Iranian  parallels  to  na.  Such  an  explanation  is,  however,  scarcely  possible.  If  we 
compare  forms  such  as  gyastdmnd  baysdmnd,  of  the  Buddhas ;  gyasi.yau  baysyati-jsa, 
by  the  Buddhas  ;  gyastd  haysd-na,  by  the  Buddha,  it  will  be  seen  that  the  additions 
jsa  and  na  are  not  of  the  same  kind  as  the  real  suffixes  dihna,  yau,  which  are  added 
to  both  the  words  gyasta  and  iaysa,  while  jsa  and  na  are  suffixed  only  to  the  last. 
li  jsa  and  na  were  real  suffixes,  we  should  certainly  sometimes  find  forms  such  as 
gyastd-na  haysa-na.  Moreover,  as  has  abeady  been  remarked,  the  oblique  case  alone 
is  sometimes  used  as  an  instrumental.  I  therefore  think  that  jsa  and  na  are 
intensifying  particles,  a  kind  of  postpositions,  of  the  same  kind  as  ml,  fa,  vl,  vvra  and 
other  additions  which  we  find  used  with  the  meaning  of  a  locative ;  compare 
sau  hdlai  mi,  in  one  place  ;  ^e  stye-ta,  at  one  time ;  pmlgalu  vt,  or,  vira,  in  the  pudgala, 
and  so  forth.  It  is  possible  that  this  tendency  to  use  such  additions  is  due  to  some 
alien  influence  exercised  on  the  language.  The  state  of  affairs  in  the  "Vajracchedika 
makes  it  impossible  to  decide  to  which  cases  such  postpositions  were  added.  It 
seems  as  if  some  are  added  to  the  accusative  and  others  to  the  oblique  base. 

It  has  already  been  remarked  that  the  oblique  base  is  derived  from  an  old 
genitive.  The  old  dative  seems  to  have  disappeared  as  in  Old  Persian,  and,  so  far 
as  we  can  see,  there  are  no  traces  of  the  Old  Iranian  ablative.  The  case  is  perhaps 
a  Kttle  different  with  the  old  locative.  Forms  such  as  mdya,  on  the  earth  ;  dJiya,  in 
an  egg ;  aysmya,  in  the  mind,  seem  to  contain  a  suffix  corresponding  to  Old  Persian 
and  Zend  yd.  It  is  possible  that  all  these  forms  are  originally  feminines.  The 
same  is  perhaps  also  the  case  with  forms  such  as  bdm,  in  the  garden  ;  mahdydmhd,  in 
the  big  vehicle ;  Jiamklma,  in  enumeration,  and  so  forth.     It  is,  however,  allowable 


fc) 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  233 

to  infer  from  such  instances  that  the  old  locative  had  not  been  dropped.  In  such 
cases  where  the  oblique  base  is  used  as  a  locative,  it,  therefore,  perhaps  represents 
an  old  locative  and  not  a  g-enitive. 

In  the  Old  Iranian  dialects  the  vocative  singular  of  a-bases  ended  in  a.  The 
regular  representative  of  this  a  in  our  lang-uage  would  be  a.  Forms  such  as  gyada 
hsysa,  O  Buddha  ;  dslrya,  O  monk,  are  accordingly  just  what  we  would  expect.  It  is 
a  consequence  of  the  general  confusion  of  final  vowels  in  the  Vajracchedika  that  we 
also  find  vocatives  such  as  gyada  haysd,  gyasttl  baysa,  and  even  gyadO,  hayna. 

If  we  turn  to  the  plural  of  a-bases  the  regular  termination  of  the  nominative 
and  accusative  is  a,  corresponding  to  Old  Persian  a,  Zd.  «,  a, ;  thus  liiira,  things  ; 
haysumfia  riiysa,  bodhisattvas ;  cUnrya,  monks.  Of  other  cases  we  find  an  instru- 
mental-ablative, a  genitive  and  a  locative. 

The  instrumental-ablative  ends  in  yaii,  with  or  without  the  addition  jsa ;  thus 
gyastyau  ba.ysyau-jsa,  by  the  Buddhas.  It  has  already  been  remarked  that  this 
termination  can  be  directly  derived  from  such  as  were  in  use  in  Old  Iranian 
dialects. 

The  same  is  the  case  with  the  genitive  plural,  which  ends  in  dnu  in  older  texts, 
and  in  dmnci,  di'ii,  or  even  d  in  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript;  compare  gyaddmnd, 
gyastdm  and  gyastd,  of  the  venerable  ones. 

The  locative  plural  ends  in  vd,  corresponding  to  Old  Persian  tcvd,  Zd.  hva  ; 
thus  (Irrayvd  avdyvd,  in  the  three  apayas.  It  seems  as  if  the  s  in  Old  Persian 
-aisuvd  regularly  disappeared  in  such  forms. 

There  are  very  few  forms  at  my  disposal  to  show  how  other  vocalic  bases  were 
inflected.  Loanwords  such  as  data,  Skr.  dJidiu,  dim,  country,  are  apparently  female 
((-bases  ;  saind,  a  noble  woman,  is  an  old  ?-base.  Stnya,  gen.  strlyai,  a  woman,  seems 
to  be  a  ia-base  derived  from  an  old  Z-base.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  nom.  sing,  of 
female  a-bases  ends  in  a.  The  genitive  ends  in  e  ;  thus  carye,  of  the  conduct. 
Some  of  the  locatives  in  ya  mentioned  above  perhaps  properly  belong  to  old  a-bases. 
The  curious  locatives  ending  in  na,  in  forms  such  as  kdihna  dimfia,  in  what  country ; 
ttifia  parsana,  in  that  assembly,  have  perhaps  received  their  termination  by  trans- 
ference from  pronouns.  The  form  hyusteye  (sari),  (when  the  night)  has  become  light, 
does  not,  I  think,  contain  the  locative  suffix  of  an  a-base,  cort'esponding  to  Old  Persian 
dyd,  Zd.  aya,  but  stands  for  hyudye  and  is  the  ordinary  gen.  sing,  of  adjectives.  The 
nominative  and  accusative  plural  end  in  e  ;  thus  hakle,  sins.  Other  cases  are  formed 
as  from  a-bases. 

An  old  K-base  seems  to  be  daJid,  man,  if  this  word  is  connected  with  Jmdihuna, 
belonging  to  good  men.  This  latter  form  occurs  twice,  and  is  once  written  hudihuna 
and  once  hudihuna. 

With  regard  to  consonantal  bases  we  are  as  yet  very  unsatisfactorily  informed. 


234  VAJRACCHEDIKl 

Ifrc,  a  man,   and  rr«,  a  king,  are  old  nf-\ias.Bs,  and  the  genitives  IicafiiAd,  rriimdu , 
show  that  the  strong  base  is  used  in  all  eases. 

The  preceding  remarks  about  the  inflexion  of  nouns  are  far  from  being  complete. 
It  will,  however,  be  seen  that,  on  the  whole,  the  declension  fairly  well  agrees  with 
that  occurring  in  Old  Iranian  languages. 

Pronouns. 

The  nominative  singular  of  the  pronoun  of  the  first  person  is  ai/sd,  older  aysn, 
which  corresponds  to  Zd.  azgtn.  That  same  form  is  also  the  base  of  the  nominative 
of  this  pronoun  in  the  modern  languages  of  the  Kurds  and  Afghans,  and  in  the  Pamir 
dialects.  The  forms  mariimu,  uiaih,  of  me,  seem  to  correspond  to  Skr.  mama.  The 
form  ■wuJin  is  used  as  an  accusative  and  as  an  oblique  base.  It  seems  to  have  some- 
thing to  do  with  Zd.  mai/ji/o.     An  enclitic  mil,  mi,  my,  occurs  in  18  J";  41  i'" ;  44  a'- 

'  Thou '  is  th(,  which  corresponds  to  Old  Persian  tuvam,  cf  Zd.  dvam.  An  enclitic 
oblique  form  of  this  pronoun  is  apparently  contained  in  the  common  c/r-e  saittd, 
what-to-thee  seems,  what  do  you  think,  for  which  other  texts  have  cu-ta  saittd. 
The  word  was  accordingly  reduced  to  d,  e  on  account  of  its  being  used  enclitically. 
It  is  then  perhaps  possible  to  derive  nhu,  you,  which  is  used  as  an  oblique  base  in 
the  same  way  as  miihu,  me,  from  a  form  corresponding  to  Zd.  taihyo.  We  should 
only  have  to  suppose  that  in  our  dialect  the  pronoun  of  the  first  person  was  made  to 
agree  in  form  with  that  of  the  second,  while  the  opposite  has  been  the  case  in  Zd. 
The  form  aim,  6a",  is  not  certain.      We  should  probably  read  uhu  instead. 

The  nominative  singular  of  the  demonstrative  pronoun,  si,  s'd,  fern,  m,  has 
already  been  mentioned.  The  oblique  cases  are,  as  usual,  formed  from  the  base  ta, 
which  in  our  dialect  is  written  tta.  The  form  tta,  thus,  so,  and  the  reduplicated 
tta-tta,  thus,  perhaps  correspond  to  Zd.  tat,  Skr.  tdt.  Other  forms  are  accusative 
sing,  it II,  ttu,  tvii,  cf.  Zd.  tsm ;  instr.  sing,  ttiua  and  ttatia,  cf.  Old  Persian  tyand  ;  gen. 
sing,  t.ti/e,  cf  Zd.  aetahe ;  loc.  sing,  ttina,  cf.  Zd.  aetanha.  In  the  plural  we  find 
fti,  they,  Zd.  te;  ttydm,  tfi/dmnil,  their,  which  seem  to  have  been  formed  after  the 
analogy  of  nouns,  &c. 

The  interrogative  base  hi,  cii,  ce,  ci,  corresponding  to  Old  Iranian  In,  ci,  is  also, 
as  in  Middle  Persian,  used  as  a  relative,  and  there  are  no  traces  of  the  relative  base  ya, 
which  is  common  in  Zd.  and  Skr. 

On  the  whole  we  again  find  a  close  agreement  with  Old  Iranian. 

Verbs. 

The  conjugation  of  verbs  is  as  yet  very  unsatisfactorily  known,  and  it  is  only 
possible  to  make  some  few  remarks. 

Of  the  verb  substantive  the  only  forms  which  occur  in  the  Vajracchedika  are 


IN   THE    OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  235 

astd,  is  ;  Ida  (older  texts  ««r/a),  are,  which  can  be  easily  derived  from  Old  Iranian.  The 
optative  forms  i  and  di/a,  might  be,  are  less  perspicuous.  /  is  evidently  connected  with 
Zd.  fij/at,  Latin  sit,  while  dya  looks  like  the  optative  of  the  base  i,  to  go,  preceded  by  d. 

The  conjugation  of  ordinary  verbs  seems  to  comprise  a  long  series  of  different 
forms.  There  is  an  active,  a  middle  voice,  and  a  passive.  The  present  comprises  an 
indicative,  a  conjunctive,  an  optative,  and  an  imperative.  As  in  all  Iranian  tongues, 
the  past  tense  is  formed  from  the  past  participle. 

With  regard  to  personal  terminations  we  have  mci  in  the  first  person  singular 
active,  and  e  or  i  in  the  corresponding  form  of  the  middle ;  i  in  the  second  person 
singular ;  td,  ti,  middle  te,  in  the  third  person  singular ;  tiicld,  da,  middle  hide,  ari, 
in  the  third  person  plural.  Other  terminations  do  not  occur  in  the  Vajracchedika 
manuscript.     Those  that  are  in  use  are  easily  explained  as  Iranian. 

Of  the  indicative  of  the  present  the  following  types  occur. 

In  the  first  person  singular  of  the  active  we  find  forms  such  as  yanurnd,  yanum, 
I  do,  and  hvdmmd,  I  say.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  vowel  preceding  the  personal 
termination  is,  in  the  former  of  these,  H,  in  the  latter  ?.  Similarly  we  find  dm,  um, 
and  em  in  Middle  Persian,  the  former  in  a-bases,  the  latter  in  aya-bases. 

The  termination  of  the  third  person  singular  of  the  active  is  ta  or  ii ;  thus  vdstd, 
reads  ;  daittd,  sees  ;  saUtd,  appears  ;  vajisdi,  sees.  In  bases  ending  in  r,  we  find  (/  as 
the  result  of  the  combination  of  r  and  t ;  thus  Jiidd,  gives. 

The  termination  of  the  third  person  plural  of  the  active  will  be  seen  from  forms 
such  as  pvaidd,  they  are  afraid  ;  hyehldd,  they  obtain  ;  sadalildd,  they  believe  ; 
vd-sidd,  they  read.  It  will  be  seen  that  the  termination  is  the  Indo-European  nfi, 
in  which  the  n  has  been  dropped. 

Several  forms  belong  to  the  middle  voice.  The  termination  of  the  first  person 
singular  is  here  e,  i  ;  thus  hve,  I  understand  ;  hydta  yam,  I  remember.  In  the  third 
person  singular  we  find  te ;  thus  haute,  he  knows ;  hamete,  he  goes ;  kaite, 
endures.  The  termination  of  the  third  person  plural  is  ari,  ore ;  thus  Ijvdr'i,  they 
understand ;  Iiamdri,  they  are  ;  mahdre,  they  view. 

Of  the  passive  I  have  only  noted  the  forms  Imda,  kvide,  is  said  ;  Iivandri, 
they  are  s]3oken.     The  passive  sufiix  is  ya  as  in  Old  Iranian. 

Of  the  conjunctive,  only  forms  of  the  second  and  third  persons  occur  in  my 
materials.^  The  characteristic  element  of  the  conjunctive  is,  as  in  other  old  Aryan 
dialects,  d.  Compare  hama,  thou  wilt  become,  33  a"',  where  the  conjunctive  is  used 
as  a  future ;  dijsdti,  he  keeps  ;  dijsddi,  they  keep.  A  middle  form  ajjparently  occurs 
in  yandmde,  3  i'. 

'  A  first  person  singular  hanidrhne,  let  me  be,  occurs  in  M.  P.  Pelliot's  valuable  con- 
tribution Tin  fragment  du  Suvarnaprabhasasutra  en  Iranien  oriental,  Paris,  1913,  p.  12. 


236  VAJKACCHEDIKA 

The  characteristic  mark  of  the  optative  is  an  i  or  a  y.  Of  the  first  person 
singular  there  is  apparently  one  example  in  nasphdim,  20  a',  which  is  used  to  translate 
nispddayisyami.  If  this  form  is  really  an  optative,  it  shows  that  the  termination 
must  have  been  am,  i.e.  the  optative  takes  the  suffixes  of  secondary  tenses.  The 
state  of  affairs  in  the  third  person  singular  points  in  the  same  direction.  The 
termination  is  «,  for  which  we  also  find  e  and  a ;  thus  van,  he  might  read ;  kvdiie,  he 
would  say ;  /icimd,  he  would  become.  Such  forms  are  comparable  with  Old  Persian 
and  Avestan  optatives  ending  in  yd,  ydt  respectively.  The  third  person  optative 
sometimes  occurs  in  a  fuller  form;  thus  vdhyd,  he  would  read.  I  agree  with 
Professor  Leumann  ^  in  explaining  the  termination  yci  from  the  primary  Aryan 
suffix  ii.  The  form  livdhlye,  he  would  say,  seems  to  belong  to  the  middle  and  to 
contain  the  middle  termination  of  primary  tenses. 

The  old  past  has  been  replaced  by  the  past  participle,  as  in  all  Iranian 
languages.  In  intransitive  verbs  the  participle  is  apparently  used  alone,  and 
inflected  so  as  to  agree  with  the  subject  in  number.  Compare  nasta,  he  sat  down ; 
nasta,  they  sat  down.  Also  in  the  ease  of  transitive  verbs  we  often  find  purely 
passive  constructions,  such  as  pytixta,  it  was  heard ;  kaihcUula,  they  have  been 
favoured.  It  seems  however  as  if  transitive  verbs,  and  also  some  active  intransitives, 
commonly  form  their  past  tense  by  adding  personal  suffixes  to  the  past  participle. 
The  only  suffixes  which  occur  in  the  Vajracchedika  are  e  in  the  third  person  singular 
and  dt'iida  in  the  third  person  plural ;  thMsyude,  he  did  ;  pyuste,  he  heard  ;  namasydda, 
they  did  obeisance  to ;  tsudiiuUi,  they  went.  It  is  tempting  to  compare  the 
termination  e  in  the  third  person  singular  with  Waxi  ei,  ^yiym.  i,  e,  which 
Professor  Geiger  ^  derives  from  the  pronominal  base  ai,  Old  Persian  ai-to,  Zd.  aeia. 
I  do  not  know  anything  about  the  origin  of  the  termination  dihda.  It  is  probably 
a  participial  suffix. 

In  the  present  participle  we  find  both  the  Old  Iranian  suffix  nt  and  the  Middle 
Persian  a/ia.  Compare /m?7j;;>wifZai,  going  ;  vitramdd,  gorng  into  ;  fsuia,  going  ;  vama- 
sdkd,  understanding.  The  suffix  dha  apparently  also  forms  a  participle  with  a  passive 
meaning ;  compare  pamdka,  measurable ;  Udka,  that  should  be  obtained.  The 
middle  suffix  d7ia  is  also  used  ;  thus  std?ia,  std,  standing,  being. 

A  participle  of  necessity  is  formed  by  adding  either  of  the  suffixes  ya/,  i.e.  yaa, 
and  dfia;  compare  tcerai,  that  should  be  made;  hvdnai,  that  should  be  called; 
dydihnd,  that  should  be  seen.  The  suffix  yai  is  the  Old  Iranian  ya,  and  ana  can 
perhaps  be  compared  with  the  «  which  is  added  to  the  infinitive  in  order  to  form 
similar  participles  in  Neo-Persian. 

'  Professor  Leumann,  Zur  nordarisohen  Spraclie,  p.  108. 

^  Grundriss,  I.  ii,  p.  319.  It  is  curious  that  the  suffixed  pronouns  of  the  second  and 
third  persons  plural  in  those  languages  are  identical. 


IE  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  287 

There  seems  to  be  a  gerund  ending  in  i,  i.e.  older  ya.  Compare  Jiaihberi, 
having  filled. 

Of  infinitives  I  have  noted  tvaihcland,  to  do  obeisance  to ;  bmte,  to  realize ; 
plde,  to  write.  Compare  the  terminations  tanay  in  Old  Persian  and  tee  in  Zd.  If 
tvana  5  a™  is  not  simply  miswritten  for  tvamdana,  it  contains  a  suffix  corresponding 
to  Zd.  7idi. 

The  verbal  forms  mentioned  above  are  not,  of  course,  all  that  are  in  use  in  the 
language.  They  only  represent  the  difierent  types  which  can  be  inferred  from 
a  study  of  the  Vajracuhedika. 

It  is  not,  at  the  present  stage  of  my  knowledge  of  the  ancient  Aryan  language 
of  Turkestan,  possible  to  lay  down  rules  about  the  formation  of  the  various  bases  of 
the  present  or  of  secondary  verbs,  and  so  forth.  I  shall  only  mention  the  curious 
formation  of  causal  verbs  which  we  find  in  forms  such  as  nasphdi'iu,  I  might  produce. 
There  cannot  be  any  doubt  that  we  have  here  the  same  suffix  an  which  forms 
causal  verbs  in  Middle  and  Neo-Persian.^ 

An  Ikanian  Language. 

All  the  facts  mentioned  above  point  in  one  and  the  same  direction.  In 
phonology,  we  find  the  same  state  of  affairs  as  in  Old  Iranian.  The  vowels  are, 
broadly,  the  same,  there  are  distinct  traces  of  the  influence  exercised  on  a  preceding 
vowel  by  a  following  i  which  is  indicated  by  the  /-epenthesis  in  Zd. ;  the  voiceless 
stops  seem  to  be,  in  certain  circumstances,  changed  to  spirants ;  the  old  aspirated 
voiced  stops  have  lost  their  aspiration;  the  soft  palatal  sibilants  have  been  kept 
as  sibilants,  and  have  not  become  palatals  as  in  Indian ;  s  and  s  become  s  and  h, 
respectively.  So  far  as  we  can  judge,  the  inflexion  of  nouns,  pronouns,  and  verbs 
closely  agrees  with  that  prevailing  in  Old  Iranian,  even  in  minor  details. 
Considering  the  small  extent  of  our  materials  this  correspondence  is  often 
astonishingly  close.  If  we  add  that  the  vocabulary  is,  so  far  as  it  can  be  analysed, 
practically  identical,  as  will  be  seen  from  the  explanations  given  above  and 
from  the  list  of  words,  we  are,  I  think,  forced  to  the  conclusion  that  our  language 
does  not  constitute  a  separate  group  within  the  Aryan  family,  but  is  simply  a  form 
of  Old  Iranian,  younger  than  Zd.  and  Old  Persian,  but  considerably  older  than 
Pehlevl.  As  might  be  expected,  it  is  generally  more  closely  connected  with  Zend 
than  with  Old  Persian  ;  compare  the  treatment  of  ty,  tr,  and  -m,  and  forms  such  as 
Msivrra,  noble  family,  Zd.  vis,  Old  Persian  rid,  and  so  forth.  On  the  other  hand 
we  find  (lasts,  hand,  as  in  Old  Persian. 

'  See  Grundriss,  I.  ii,  p.  305. 


288  VAJKACCHEDIKA 

Our  language  is  much  older  than  the  various  modem  Iranian  dialects  with  which 
it  might  be  compared.  As  has  already  been  remarked,  Dr.  Hoernle  was  of  opinion 
that  '  it  has  its  nearest  congeners  in  the  so-called  Ghalchah  dialects  of  the  Pamir, 
the  Saiiq-qoll,  ShighnT,  Wakhi,  Munjani,  Sanglichl.'  So  far  as  I  can  see,  this 
theory  still  remains  the  most  likely  one.  In  addition  to  the  important  corre- 
spondence between  the  word  hcimd,  is,  and  Waxi  hiimiiin,  to  be,-'  attention  might  be 
drawn  to  the  correspondence  in  the  words  for  '  tear '  and  '  I '.  That  is  however 
a  question  to  be  solved  by  Iranian  and  not  by  Indian  philology. 

The  Edition  of  the  Manusceipt. 

It  has  been  observed  by  Dr.  Hoernle  ^  that  the  version  of  the  Vajracchedika 
here  under  consideration  is  not  a  simple  translation  of  the  text  as  published  by 
Max  Miiller.  The  correspondence  is  rarely  so  close  as  in  the  passages  published 
by  Dr.  Hoernle.  It  is  therefore  no  wonder  that  many  points  still  remain  unsettled, 
though  I  do  not  doubt  that  they  will  all,  in  time,  be  ehicidated.  My  own  experi- 
ence is  that  almost  every  day  spent  on  the  study  brings  fresh  light  ;  and  I  feel 
confident  that  I  should  be  able  to  arrive  at  a  fuller  understanding  if  I  were  to 
devote  more  time  to  the  work.  I  have,  however,  already  stated  my  reasons  for 
not  delaying  the  puljlishing  of  this  important  document  more  than  absolutely 
necessary. 

The  transcript  of  the  Vajracchedika  manuscript  which  follows  is,  I  hope, 
a  reliable  reproduction  of  the  original.  I  have  not  made  any  attempt  at  correcting 
scribal  errors  in  the  latter ;  and  I  do  not  think  that  our  understanding  of  the 
language  is  sufficiently  far  advanced  to  allow  us  to  do  so. 

Immediately  below  the  words  of  the  East  Turkestani  text  have  been  placed, 
in  smaller  type,  their  Sanskrit  equivalents,  so  far  as  it  is  possible  for  me,  at 
present,  to  give  them  ;  and  between  them,  of  course,  the  rules  of  sandhi  have 
been  neglected. 

For  convenient  use,  the  prose  text  of  each  folio  is  printed  as  a  separate 
paragraph,  numbered  with  the  number  of  the  folio  to  which  is  added  a  for  the 
obverse,  and  b  for  the  reverse  ;  and  the  beginning  of  each  line  in  the  page  is 
marked  with  a  (raised)  small  roman  numeral. 

For  the  purpose  of  ready  comparison,  with  reference  to  the  occasionally  very 
wide  divergence  of  the  two  texts,  the  Sanskrit  text  of  Max  Miiller's  edition,  in 
the  Anecdota  Oxoniensia,  Aryan  Series,  vol.  ii,  part  I,  is  added  at  the  foot  of  the 

'  See  Dr.  Hoernle,  Report,  p.  34.  It  is  exj)lained  by  Tomaschek  as  a  compound  of  the 
base  i  with  the  prefix  ham.  See  Grundriss,  I.  ii,  p.  327.  This  explanation  becomes  consider- 
ably strengthened  by  our  text,  where  haniete,  38  6"',  actually  means  'goes',  'wanders'. 

^  .JRAS.,  1910,  p.  1283. 


IN  THE    OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  239 

pages.     The  introductory  and  concluding  verses  of  the  Eastern  Turkestani  text 
have  no  counterpart  in  the  Sanskrit  text. 


TEXT. 

[lii]  Saddham. 

Drrai   padya    naraasumma      baysa      drbadva    sadi-jsa   tvaiira 
Trin   prakaran      namasyami      bhagavatah  trikalesu     sraddhaya 

ttrvamni  namasumma      data       tti-va   drrai   padya        '"bi-samgan  [i] 
triyanikam      namasyami    dharmam    atha-vai    trin    prakaran     bhiksu-samgham 

Till      padi     namasumma    stitra    prajnapa'^ramma      baysamna 
Tam  prakaram     namasyami       sutram       prajnaparamitam  bhagavatam 

mata   bisamna    parammarii    hvasta    gabhi[2  a^jra    parasa      uvara  2 

mata     visvasam     paramitanam     santa  gambhira       j^r^sadika       udara 

baysiiiie        carye      padauysa   jDirmattama 
Bodhi-        caryayah       prathama  parama 

ddharma    bi"sana   paramartha   yauga   ni  jsvaka  3 

dharmanam   visvesam    paramarthah    yoge  (?)  nn 

Kusta    na   kara    kama    ni-sta   liiyaui"sca    tta-va    parrtiska  • 
Yatra      na      kila  na-asti  tatha-vai 

tta   tha    tta   alabye    oska   raysi   ttatta   kliu   ddharmakrii^va  n  [4] 

evam  evam  sada  evam    }rttha      dharmakayam 

Prajfiaparamma  tva     baiiibista    sarvaiiina      baysa  • 
Prajnaparamitam    etam    samkalitavan    sarvajnah      bhagavan 

tva  ttrrasaya  [2  W\   vasta       biraste      cu    ra   Vajrrachediika  nama  11  [5] 
tam  trisatikam  vacayati  prakasayati  yah  eva    Vajracehedikam  nama 

bisa     karma       cchaisa         u         avara"na   basde   garkhii 
sarvani    karmani  tatha      avaranasya   pajDani    samyak 

vasara    manaiiida    nabusda     ttina   Vajrrachedaka   nama :  [§] 

vajrah  yatha  tena       Yajracchedika        nama 

"'cu-bura    i        baysam       data      va   ttraiiima   bisit      ttina   sutrii 
yavan    syat    buddhanam    dharmah    vai        tavan       sarvah    tasmin    sutre 

ttye   Vajrrai'^chedakyi    vira   ttina   dadarii      parsa      uvara  11  [7] 

tasyah     Vajracchedikayah     upari     tena      etavat       prasadika      udara 

CU     tva  saji         dijsati         u       [3a']      va|i     pida-pari 

yah    etam    udgrhniyat   dharayet    athava  vacayet    likhapayet 


240  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

bi^i  data  siya  pachlysda  husa    jsati     bista^ 

sarvah-asya  dharmah    ndgrhitah   pratisthapitah-bliavati  yati        ante 

ii  ^ira-jsa  n    [s] 
sivena 

ci      ri    puna      mista      hamari     tta-va     tta     sutra   hvanai"ri  ^  * 
yasya    nu  punyani  mahanti    bhavanti   tatha-vai  atha    sutrani    pathyante 

ttana       hajva      livada-na  hamrrastba  ^  ttina   sutra      asa   tcaira  ii       [9] 
tena     prajnena  (?)     purusena         samyak  tena    sutrena  asa  (?)  karya  (?) 

ttinai    i^aysa    haiiijsye    byuha        dabrriya       sada-jsa  vana  • 
tena-asya    aham    sarhpratisthe  vyuhe   dharmapritya  (?)  sraddhaya      iha 

•  ka  ma       baysii       a[3fe*]ysda  yanamde  khvai        tta       hva 

yadi  me  bhagavantah.    raksam  (?)      kurvanti    j^atha-vai-etat  evam  bhasitam 

yanCim  khu  staka  n         [10] 

karomi  yatha  utpadayitavyam 

"Saddham    Orga       i      harbisaiiina    gyastamna    baysaiiina        u 
Siddham      Namah    syat         sarvesam  yajatanam       bhagavatam      tatha 

baudhisatvaih  • '  i"halai-yasta  11  Ttatta  mamma    pytista       ^e  stye  * 

bodhisattvanam  disi  Evam  me  srutam    Ekasmin    samaye 

se       stye-ta    gyastana    gyastii      i'^^baysa     Sravastii      ksira       asta 
ekasmin    samaye      yajatanam     yajatah      bhagavan   Sravastyam    nagare      asinah 

vya      Jivii      rrispura     basa'Ana- 
abhut    Jetasya  rajaputrasya  vane    Ana- 

[4oi]  thapindi         baru       samkbyerma    mista-na      bil-saga-na  ° 
thapindikasya     sresthinah     samgbarame  mahata      bhiksu-samgliena 

bamtsa  •  ^       dvasi-pamjsa  •  ^"'sau      a^iryau-jsa     Tti  ^    gyastana     gyasta 
sardham         dvadasasata-pancasadbhih.         acaryaih.        Atha      yajatanam      yajatah 

baysii     brru-hada  navaysye  ^"pattara    civara    pana     nati      Sravasta 
bhagavan    purvahne       nyavasta         patram     clvavam  puratah  adadau    Sravastyam 

(1.)  Evaiii  maya  srutam.  Ekasmin  samaye  bhagavan  Sravastyam  viharati  sma 
Jetavane  'nathapindadasy^arame  mahata  bhiksu-sarbghena  sardham  ardhatrayoda- 
sabhir  bhiksu-sataih  sambahulais  ca  bodhisattvair  mahasattvaih.  Atha  khalu 
bhagavan  purvahna-kala-samaye  nivasya  patra-eivaram  adaya  Sravastlm  mahana- 

^  To  the  right  of  each  of  the  two  first  lines  of  fol.  3a  we  find  the  syllable  jrd 
written  in  the  margin,  of  a  smaller  size,  and  in  an  apparently  different  handwriting. 
^  Read  /lamrrasta,  as  in  44  a"-  ^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

*  ^e  stye  repeated  by  mistake.  ^  Read  -samga-na. 

"  Five  syllables  til  pi  sa  (?)  ka  sa  in  cursive  writing  added  interlinearly  after  tli. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  241 

miSta    kitha    pinva^     traiiida      i'^Tti     gyasta     baysa        ^tti     gyasta 
rnahati    nagare    pindaya      ijravistali      Atlia      yajatah    bhagavan     atha     yajatah. 

baysa      ku      Sravasta    masta    kitha     pinda  [4?)i]  va    tsuta    harayeta 
bhagavan  yada    Sravastyam    mahati   nagare    pindaya  vai     gatah      sametab 

kti     khaysna-kira    yudii     yude     hvada  khaysa    ku   "sce-ta    paryeta 
yada    bhakta-karyam    krtam     cakara    bbukte     bbakte    yada      kale    pratikrantab 

hamye     pattara    clvarii         pajsiryi^  pa        haysnata        i"pranavyi 

sametab       patrani      civaram     pratj-asamayat     padau    praksalayat        prajnaptasya 

aysarii  vira     nasta     bastii,  palaiiiga  rrasta  ttaramdai"^ra-iia      vistata 
asanasya  upari  nisannah  baddbe  paiyahke    rjuna  kayena  upasthapayat 

pyaiiitsa      ttusatteta   byata       javae    vyeta*      Tti-ta 
pratimukblm     sunyatayab   smrtim      eva-sab    bbutab  Atba 

[5ai]     pbaraka      a^irya    kamma    halai    gyastana    gyasta     baysa 
saiiibabulab    aearyab       yam        disam     yajatanam    yajatab  bbagavan 

vyeta  hastlt  tsuam"da     kti    vara    hamya    gyastana    gyasta       baysa 
bbutab    tatra      agaccban     yada    tatra    sametab    yajatanam  yajatasya  bbagavatab 

pa       ttira-jsa        iiamasyai"da  *        gyasta  baysa  drrai      tcira 

padau         sirasa  anamasyan  yajatam     bbagavantam        tnn       varan 

hvaramcaina      tvana  *     tsuaiiida        u  sau         hai^lai-mi       nasta  • 

daksinena         vanditum      agaecban      tatba       ekam  disam  nisannab 

Ttye       sce-ra      vatca      asiri        Subhuta     vara     ttina      parsa  [5  i^]  na 
Tasmin     samaye     punah    aearyab       Subhutib       tatra     tasyam    parsadi 


garim  pindaya  praviksat.  Atba  kbabi  bbagavan  Sravastim  mabanagarliii  pindaya 
earitva  krta-bbakta-krtyab  pascadbbakta-pindapata-pratikrantab  patracivaram  pra- 
tisamya  padau  praksalya  nyasTdat  prajnapta  ev^asane  paryankam  abbujya  rjuiii 
kayam  pranidbaya  pratimukblm  smrtim  upastbapya.  Atba  kbalu  sambabula 
bbiksavo  yena  bbagavams  ten#6pasamkraman  upasamkramj'a  bbagavatab  padau 
sirobbiv  abbivandya  bbagavantaih  tris  pradaksinlkrty#aikante  nyasidan.  (2.)  Tena 
kbalu  punab   samayen^ayusman   Subbutis  tasyam   eva   parsadi   samnipatito   'bbut 


1  Cf.  piwla,  4  a-" 

^  Tbe  three  first  words  of  1.  iv  repeated  by  mistake. 

^  I   am   not   quite   certain    about    tbe    reading.      Di'.   Hoernle   has  pajsihi/i. 
\y6xh.a-\)S  pajslep,  compare  e  in  jdvae,  4  4'"^. — R.  H.]. 
*'  Read  namasydmda. 
^  Compare  tvamclana,  29  h\ 

6»8  B 


242  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

harhgri       vyita       u        nasta         Tti        a^iri        Subhuta    aysam-na 
samnipatitah    bhutah    tatha    nisannah       Atha     aynsman       Subhutih         asanat 

patata     "'sau        sve        civara  •  ^    praliausti       u     hvaramdai    ysamnu 
utthitah      ekam      suptim       civaram        nyavasayat    tatha       daksinam  janu 

sadya  parau"itti         kaiiima     halai*^      gyasta       baysa        asta 

prthivyam       pratyasthapayat         yam  disam  yajatah     bhagavan       aste 

hastii    ajaihla  ^    dastti      i'^'yudai        u       gyasta         baysa        tta    hve 
tena       anjaleh      bastam    akarot-asya    tatha     yajatam    bhagavantam  evam  avocat 

sa     dnskarii  midaiiina  gyasta     baysa 
nunam  duskaram    midhvah      yajata    bhagavan 

[6  a}]  cu-ttira     gyastana    gyasta     baysa-na     ttahirau-hvanaka-na  ■' 
yavat        yajatanam     yajatena     bhagavata  tathagatena 

^  pajsa«"mana  asan-na      rrasta      bi^a        hala      biysada      *  ahu-jsa 

pujanam  arhata  rju         visvah       disah       buddhena  tvaya 

bau™dhisatva      mista     baysumiia    vuysa    harhdada   na      bi^a-pirma- 
bodhisattvah      mahantah        bodhi-        sattvah    anugrhltah    nu    visva-paramena 

^■''ttamye    hamdara-jsa    cu-ttarii     gyasta     baysa-na     ttahara-tstika-na  •  ^ 
anugrahena  yavat        yajatena     bhagavata  tathagatena 

[6?)i]    '^[Hailsindmiia    sanamna      tvisa     yanaka-na      samna     bisaiiina 
klesamayanam       avinam(?)      tavisi         karakena         samena      visvesam 

hiramna  "vamasaka-na  uhu-jsa  baudhisatva  mista  baysumiia  vtiysa 
arthanam        bodhakena  tvaya       bodhisattvah    mahantah       bodhi-      sattvah 

ysi  ">niya-haudi    bi^a-pTrmattamye     ysTniya-baurariime-jsa    Tta    khu  •  ^ 
paiinditah  visva-paramaya  parmdanaya  Tat     katham 

samnisannah.  Atha  khalv  ayusman  Subhutir  utthay^asanad  ekamsam  uttarasangam 
krtva  daksinam  janu-mandalam  prthivyam  x^ratisthapya  yena  bhagavams  ten^anjalim 
pranamya  bhagavantam  etad  avocat,  ascaryam  bhagavan  param-asearyam  sugata 
yavad  eva  tathagaten#arhata  samyak-sambuddhena  bodhisattva  mahasattva  anu- 
parigrhitah  paramein^anugrahena.  Ascaryam  bhagavan  yavad  eva  tathagaten<; 
arhata  samyak-sambuddhena  bodhisattva  mahasattvah  parinditah  paramaya  parinda- 
naya.     Tat  katham  bhagavan  bodhisattva-yana-samprasthitena  kulaputrena  va  kula- 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

^  Probably  read  amjala.  ^  Read  -na. 

*  Read  uAu-jsa  ;    the  first  aksara  of  ahu-jsa  is  perhaps  an  a  with  a  subscribed  u. 
°  Dr.    Hoernle  reads  tkhauindmna ;    the  initial  aksara  of  the  word  has  dis- 
appeared, on  fol.  65,  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  upper  corner  of  fol.  65  had  stuck  to 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  243 

'■^va    midaiiina  gyasta    baysa     baystina    vCiysai-na   baudhisatvayamua 
vai       midhvah      yajata    bhagavan      bodhi-  sattvena  bodhisattvayane 

[7ai]  hamjsadai-na   mara  mahayaiiiiia  vistana       u  khvai 

samprasthitena       iha      mahayane     stbatavyam  tatba  katham-vai-asya 

aysmii  baysamjamiia    "Ttye    hvaye    hvanai  gyastana   gyasta     baysa 
cittam    pragrabitavyam    Tasmin      ukte       vacane    yajatanam    yajatab  bbagavan 

a^iri      Subhuva   i"tta     live      sira     ^irii    Subhuva    ttatta    si    liara 
acaryam     Subhutim    evam    avocat    sadhu    sadbu     Subhute        evam    sah   arthah 

Sublitxta       liaiiidada        i'^'gyasta    baysa-na    baudhisatva  ^     [baystimna 
Subhute      anuparigrhitah      yajatena     bhagavata       bodhisattvab 

vuysai-na   bi^a-pirmatta[76']mye  hamdara-jsa  cu-ttirii  gyasta  baysa-na 

ttahirau-     tstika-na    klaisi"namna    sanamna    tvisa    yanaka-na    samna 

basaiiina  hiram"ina  vamasaka-na  uhu-jsa  baiidhisatva  mista  baysumiia 

vuysai-i'^na  ysiniya-hauda  bisa-pirmattamye  ysiniya-hauramme-jsa 

[8  a']  tta  khu  va  midamna  gyasta  baysa  baysuna  vuysai-na  bau- 

dhisatvayam"na  haiiijsadai-na  mara  mahayamiia  vistana  u.  khuai  aysmu 

na"isaiia  Ttye  livaye  hvanai  gyasta  baysa  a^iri  Subhiita  tta  hve  i'^^ira 

sira  Subhuta  ttatta  ^i  hira  Subhtita  harhdada  baysa-na  bau[8ii]dhisatva] 

bisa-pirmattama    haiiidara-jsa  ysini-hauda    gyasta     baysa-na    bau"dhi- 
visva-paramena         anugrahena        paiinditah      yajatena    bhagavata       bodhi- 

satva    bisa-pirmattama  ysini-liauramme-jsa  Ta  -  ttina  Subhuta  pyu  •  ^ 
sattvah       visva-paramaya  parindanaya         Evam    tena      Subhute     srnu 

duhitra  va  sthatavyam  katham  pratipattavyarii  katham  cittam  pragrahltavyam . 
Evam  ukte  bhagavan  ayusmantam  Subhutim  etad  avocat,  sadhu  sadhu  Subhute 
evam  etat  Subhute  evam  etad  yatha  vadasi.  Anuparigrhitas  tathagatena  bodhisattva 
mahasattvah  paramen^anugrahena  parlnditas  tathagatena  bodhisattva  mahasattvah 
paramaya  parindanaya.     Tena  hi  Subhute  srnu  sadhu  ca  susthu  ca  manasi  kuru, 

the  superimposed  lower  corner  of  fol.  7a  ;  but  a  sufficiently  distinct  inky  impression 
of  the  vowel  ai,  reversed,  is  still  discernible  in  the  latter  corner,  and  clearly 
distinguishable  when  reflected  in  a  mirror.  There  are  also  traces  of  the  consonant , 
but  being  overlaid  by  the  syllable  ffz/a  of  fol.  7a",  they  do  not  admit  of  satisfactory 
identification.  Fortunately,  however,  the  word  occurs  in  the  passage,  erroneously 
repeated  on  fol.  71)^. 

1  The  manuscript  here  goes  on  with  a  repetition  of  6a'"  ff.,  enclosed  within 
square  brackets. 

^  Read  tta.  ^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

e2 


24:4:  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

i"§iri         subi-ji  aysmya      yarii      ayse      hvanima      khu      baysuna 

sadhu     susthu-ca-etat       manasi        kuru    aham-te       bhase  yatha         bodhi- 

1  vu  •  i'^ysai-na  baudhisatvayamiia  liadai-na  ^   mara  mahayaiiina  vistana 
sattvena  bodhisattvayane       saiiigaechata    iha        mahayane    sthatavyam 

u         khui 
tatha  yatha-asya 

[9  fti]  mara    aysmu  ^         nasana  Ttatta    sira    gyasta     baysa 

iha       cittam       pragrahitavyam      Evam     sadbu    yajata     bhagavan 

ttu       najsarlii        agjiiri     Subhuta    gyasta     baysa-na     pyuste    Gyasta 
tad     vyakhyritam     acaryah     Subhutih      yajatat     bhagavatah    asrauslt      Yajatah 

baysl  tta         hve       ^  mara  •  "iSubhuva      baysu«iia  ^  vuysai-na 

bhagavan-asya      evam      avocat  iha  Subhute  bodhi-  sattvena 

baudhisatvayariina      haiiijsamdai-i^na      ttatta      aysmu  ^      upevariana 
bodhisattvayane  samgacchata  evam         cittam       utpadayitavyam 

cu-bura    satva     satvam    nasame-jsa    harh[9ii][A;/i?sa    y^saya  *    u     ahya 
yavantah  sattvah  sattvanam   samgrahena       samkhyayam  jatah     tatha   ande 

ysata  o  puraiiina  ysata  cu  gani^ta  ysa  "cu  tivava  cu  harhtsa 
jatah    tatha     jarayau       jatah    ye  samsvede  jatah    ye  aupapadakah  ye       saha 

ruvi-na  ruvana  ^  anau  ruva-na  cu  hariii"tsa  syame-jsa  cu  anau 
rupena  vina         rupena      ye  saha  samjnaya       ye     vina 

syame-jsa  cu  va  tti  satva  cu  ni  ham^'^^sa  sya[me]-jsa  anau  syami-jsa 
samjnaya      ye    vai    te    sattvah  ye    na        saha         samjnaya       vina      saihjnaya 

ku-bura    satvadata      pranavaiia 
yavati     sattvadhatuh     prajjiiapanlya 

bhasisye  'ham  te  yatha  bodhisattva-yana-samprasthitena  sthatavyam  yatha  prati- 
pattavyaiii  yatha  cittam  pragrahitavyam.  Evam  bhagavann,  ity  aynsman  Subhtitir 
bhagavatah  pratyasrauslt.  (3.)  Bhagavan  asy#aitad  avocat,  iha  Subhute  bodhisattva- 
yana-saihprasthiten#aivam  cittam  utpadayitavyam;  yavantah  Subhute  sattvah  sattva- 
dhatau  sattva-samgrahena  samgrhita  andaja  va  jarayuja  va  sams\'edaja  v^^aupapaduka 
va  rupino  v#arupino  va  samjiiino  v#asamjnino  va  n#aiva  samjnino  n^asamjnino  va 
yavan  kascit  sattvadhatuh  prajnapyamanah  prajnapyate  te  ca  maya  sarve  'nupadhisese 


^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction.  ^  Read  Uamjsamdaina. 

^  Read  aysmv,  as  in  fol.  7  (£■  and  elsewhere  ;  see  Vocabulary. 

*  The  first  three  defaced  aksaras  of  9i'  legible  from  reverse  impression  on  10  a\ 

^  Cancel  the  superfluous  ruvana. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  245 

[lOai]    mata    napiya    tti    satva     muhu-jsa     har-bisii       aharina 
mata    jnapyeta     te     sattvah         maya        sarve-visve  anupadhisese 

nirvana  paiiranirvana  •  Dadira  avamata  satva  ku  parinirvaye  •  ^ 
nirvane  parinirvapayitavyah   Tavatah  aparimanan  sattvan  yada  parinirvapitavan 

"i(Aa)mati  • '  na  hadi  kamuja  sai    ^au     satva        paranirvaye      ^"'hdma  i 
bhavet  na    eva      kamcid     api  ekam  sattvam    parinirvapitavan     bhavet 

Tta     ci       hara    kidna    Ci     Subhuta   baudhisatva    sariina  ^    ha-[106"] 
Evam  kasya  arthasya  krtena  Sacet     Subhute     bodhisattvasya    saiijiia  bha- 

mata  ni  sa  bavidhisatva  hvanai  Tta  ci  hara  kidna  •  ni  si 
vet       na  sah    bodbisattvah    vaktavyab  Evam  kasya    arthasya    krtena      na    sah 

Subliuta  han^^dhisatvsi   hvaiiai       ci      satva    vira  samna  hamata      o 
Subhute      bodbisattvah  vaktavyah  yasya  sattvasya  upari  samjna    bhavati  athava 

jvaka  vira  i"sariiiia  o  pudgala  vira  sarhiia  hame  sai  hada 
jivasya   upari      samjiia     athava  pudgalasya  upari      samjiia    bhavet      api       eva 

vatca  tti  Su'^bhtita  ni  baudhisatva-na  atmabliavinai  vasta  vira 
punah  atha       Subhute        na       bodhisattvena       atmabhavikasya   vastunah   upari 

parautta- 
pratisthite- 

[llftijna  haura  haurarhna  kusta-ja  prattikara  vira  parautta-na  haui^ra 
na  danana   datavyam    kutra-cit  prktikarasya  upari  pratisthitena   danam 

hatiramiia  •  ni  ruva  vira  parautta  haura  haurariiiia  na  "^[iajjasa 
datavyam       na  rupanam  upari  pratisthitena   danam    datavyam     na      sabdanam 

na  busaiia  na  ysvarhiiani  ni  skaumatarii  ^  ni  dharmarii-i'''[TCa  vfjra 
na  gandhanam    na         rasanam       na        sparsanam        na         dharmanam        upari 

parautta-na  haura  hauraiia  Ttatta  Subhuta  baudhisa[ll  Z)i][^'ya]  liaura 
pratisthitena   danam    datavyam    Evam      Subhute  bodhisattvena  danam 

nirvana-dhatau  parinirvapayitavyah.  Evam  aparimanan  api  sattvan  parinirvapya 
na  kascit  sattvah  parinirvapito  bhavati.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Sacet  Subhute  bodhi- 
sattvasya sattva-samjiia  pravarteta  na  sa  bodhisattva  iti  vaktavyah.  Tat  kasya 
hetoh.  Na  sa  Subhute  bodhisattvo  vaktavyo  yasya  sattva-samjiia  pravarteta  jlva- 
samjiia  va  pudgala-sanijiia  va  pravarteta.  (4.)  Api  tu  khalu  punah  Subhute  na 
bodhisattvena  vastu-pratisthitena  danam  datavyam  na  kvacit  pratisthitena  danaiii 
datavyam  na  rupa-pratisthitena  danaih  datavyam  na  sabda-gandha-rasa-sprastavya- 
dharmesu  pratisthitena  danam  diXtavyam.    Evahi  hi  Subhute  bodhisattvena  mahasat- 

1  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 
^  Read  perhaps  baudhisatva  satvasamfia. 
3  Looks  like  stvatimatmi. 


246  A^AJRACCHEDIKA 

haurariina  khu    ni       guna,        saiiina    vira   hi      sa      bauraka  asta     o 
datavyam    yatha  na  laksananam  samjnam  upari  api  nimam       data         asti    atha 

"va  nasaka     o     va  haura       Tta      cu        hira      kidna    Ci    si   Subhuta 
va    grahrta    atha    va  danam       Evam  kasya  arthasya   krtena  Yah  sah    Subhute 

baiidhisa^itva    cu      a-varautta       stana     haura      hicli      ttye    SCibhuta^ 
bodhisattvah      yah     apratisthitah         san        danam     dadati      tasya      Subhute 

baudbisatva     punii'^nai     baiiibisa    na    hu-yuda    pamaka    na-ti  •  Tta 
bodhisattvas}^a    punyamayah     samuhah      na      sukarah      prameyah    nu-te      Evam 

cue     saitta  Subhuta  hau-yu- 
kim-te  bhasate    Subhute       suka- 

[12ai]da      sarbamda       disa     halai      a^i     pamaka  na-ta*_A&i 
rah  udgaechantyah  disayah  asayfim  akasah  prameyah  nu-te  Acaryah 

Subhuta    tta      hve     %a    gyasta     baysa     Gyasta         baysi  tta 

Subhutih    evam    avocat      na      yajata    bhagavan    Yajatah    bhagavan-asya    evam 

hve    ttatta  rravyipatani-hujsada-iiinyuvijsa-nasta-uskyastll  da^va   disva 
avocat    evam  daksina-pascima-uttara-adhah-ui'dhvam  dasasu     diksu 

huyudi    atasa   pama^'^ka    ni-ta    _Asiri     Subhuta    tta      hve    ni  gyasta 
sukarah    akasah    prameyah    nu-te    Acaryah    Subhutih    evam    avocat  na     yajata 

baysa  Baysi  tta       hve     ttatta  [12  W]     si     hara     Subhuva 

bhagavan    Bhagavan-asya    evam    avocat     evam  sah    arthah      Subhute 

ttatta     si      hira     cu     si     baudbisatva  '  ci      avarautta     stana    "haurS, 
evam     sah    arthah    yat    sah     bodhisattvah     yah   apratisthitah       san        danam 

hida    ttye      puninai      haiiibisa  na  huyudi    pamaka  •  Cu  haiiiga  vatca 
dadati   tasya  punyamayah    samuhah   na     sukarah    prameyah    Kah       eva      punah 

hara      Subhuta    baudbisatva    haura    hauramila      Tta       cue      saii^tta 
arthah       Subhute      bodhisattvena     danam       datavyam      Evam    kim-te     bhasate 

tvena  danam  datavyam  yatha  na  nimitta-samjnaj-am  api  pratitisthet.  Tat  kasya 
hetoh.  Yah  Subhute  bodhisattvo  'pratisthito  danam  dadati  tasya  Subhute  punya- 
skandhasya  na  sukarara  pramanam  udgrahitum.  Tat  kim  manyase  Subhute,  sukaram 
purvasyarii  disy  akasasya  pramanam  udgrahitum.  Subhutir  aha,  no  h«idam  bhagavan. 
Bhagavan  aha,  evam  daksina-pascim-ottarasv  adha  urdhvam  dig-vidiksu  samantad 
dasasu  diksu  sukaram  akasasya  pramanam  udgrahitum.  Subhutir  aha,  no  h^idam 
bhagavan.  Bhagavan  aha,  evam  eva  Subhute  3'0  bodhisattvo  'pratisthito  danam 
dadati  tasya  Subhute  punyaskandhasya  na  sukaram  pramanam  udgrahitum.  Evam 
hi  Subhute  bodhisattva-yana-saiiiprasthitena  danam  datavyam  yatha  na  nimittasam- 
jnayam  api  pratitisthet.     (5.)  Tat  kim  manyase  Subhute,  laksanasampada  tathagato 

■'•  Read  iSubMia. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VEESION  247 

laksanTja  pyalye-jsa  gyasta     baysa      dyaiiina    rie  Subhuta    tta      hve 
laksana-       saihpada      3'ajatah   bhagavan  dvastavyah  nu    Subhutih   evam   avocat 

na'^  Kusta- 
na  Ya- 

[13  fti]  bura  SulDhu[to]  laksamna  vara-bura  drruja  ttti     najsada 

vat        Subhute       laksanam         tavat  mrsii      tat    vyakhyatam 

laksamna    alaksariiiina     gyasta         baysa         dyailina  •  Ttye       hvaye 
laksanam        alaksanam       yajatasya    bhagavatah     drastavyani     Tasmin        ukte 

hvanai      gyasta        baysa  -  ^       "ia|irl      Subhtita     tta      hve     a^ta    ni 
vacane       yajatam      bhagavantam     acaryah      Subhutih     evam    avocat     asti     nu 

gyasta     baysa  kamuja  ustai'^majsi  [ba]da  satva   cu  ttyarh  didrrammaiii 
yajata    bhagavan     kecit       uttamam      kalam   sattvah   ye    tesam        tadrsanam 

sutraiii   vira      kura      saiiina    upeva[13  i^Jri  Gyasta         baysi  tta 

sutranam  upari  vitatham  samjnam      utpadayanti       Yajatah  bhagavan-asya    evam 

hve      ma     thu    Subhuva    ttatta     hvana     hamari     ustamajsi     ba^ida 
avocat    ma     tvam     Subhute       evam         vada       bhavanti       uttamam        kalam 

ustamye  paiiicasai  saddharma  bijevaiiidai  bada  hamda  sahai"niya 
uttamayam  pancasatyam  saddharmasya  lupyamanasya  kalam  sarvada    gunavantah 

hajva        na  hadi  tti    sau    gyasta        baysa  parsada      ni       si 

prajnavantah    na     eva      te    ekam  yajatam    bhagavantam    paiyupasata    na    ekasya 

drastavyah.  Subhutir  aha,  no  h^idam  bhagavan,  na  laksanasampada  tathagato  drasta- 
vyah.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Ya  sa  bhagavan  laksanasampat  tathagatena  bhasita 
s*aiv#alaksanasampat.  Evam  ukte  bhagavan  ayusmantam  Subhutim  etad  avocat, 
yavat  Subhute  laksanasampat  tavan  mrsa  yavad  alaksanasampat  tavan  na  mrs#eti 
hi  laksanalaksanatas  tathagato  drastavyah.  (6.)  Evam  ukta  ayusman  Subhutir 
bhagavantam  etad  avocat^  asti  bhagavan  kecit  sattva  bhavisyanti  anagate  'dhvani 
pascime  kale  pascime  samaye  pascimayaiii  pancasatyam  saddharma-vipralopa-kale 
vartamane  ya  imesv  evamiupesu  sutrantapadesu  bhasyamanesu  bhutasamjBam 
utpadayisyanti.  Bhagavan  aha,  ma  Subhute  tvam  evam  vocah,  asti  kecit  sattva 
bhavisyanty  anagate  'dhvani  pascime  kale  pascime  samaye  pascimayam  paiicasatyarii 
saddharma-vipralope  vartamane  ya  imesv  evamrupesu  sutrantapadesu  bhasyamanesu 
bhutasarnjnam  utpadayisyanti.  Api  tu  khalu  punah  Subhute  bhavisyanty  anagate 
'dhvani  bodhisattva  mahasattvah  pascime  kale  pascime  samaye  pascimayam  paiica- 
satyam    saddharmavipralope    vartamane    gunavantah    sllavantah   jirajnavantas    ea 

1  The  manuscript  has  ta. 

2  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunetion  at  end  of  line ;  read  dnrl  Subhuta  gyada 
haysa. 


248  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

gyasta       i'^baysa       vira     puna      kti^ala      mula    piradamda  •  ttyaiii 
yajatasya    bhagavatah    upari    punyani    kasalasya     miilani     avaropayan        tesam 

SLitram     vi- 
sutranam  upa- 

[14fti]  ra     ^au     ksamna       vasve       aysmu '    byehidi    paysamda 
ri      ekam       ksanam     visuddham       cittam        labhante         jnatah 

hamari    gyasta    bay8a-"na     dya     hamari     gyasta    baysa-na     avamata 
bhavanti  yajatena     bbagavata    drstah  bhavanti    yajatena    bhagavata    aprameyena 

puiiinai       hambisa-na  "ihaiiiphva    hamari     Tta      cue       saitta      Su- 
punyamayena       samiihena        sambhutah     bhavanti    E\'aix!  kim-te     bhasate       Su- 

bhtiva  ni  atmasaiiina  pravartta  '^[o     net]  satvasamiia    ni  jlvasaiiina    ni 
bhiite    na    atmasamjiia     pravarteta    atha     na     sattvasamjna    na    jlvasamjfia     na 

pudgalasamiia  pravartta  Gyasta  [14  Z)i]         [^tys<        itct]     hve      saitta 
pudgalasamjfia    pravarteta    Yajatah  bhagavan-asya  evam  avocat   bhasate 

Subhuta       ku-ye       kaulopariima    dharmaparyaya     busta  •  ^  "h(a)m(a) 

Siibhute      yada-kaseit       kol6pamam       dharmaparyayam      buddhah  syat 

busta      hama  dati  si     hamada      pa^arhna       cu      nara     va 

buddhah     syat     dharmah-asya     sah      sarvada      prahatavyah     kim     punah     vai 

adai"ta     Khu    si      hve       cu    ttaratcaca    kira    khu-bura  ttaja  ni    ra 
adharmah  Yatha  sah  punisah    yada  karma       yavat  na  jatu 

bhavisyanti  ya  imesv  evamrupesu  stltrantapadesu  bhasyamfmesu  bhutasamjnam 
utpadayisyanti.  Na  khalu  punas  te  Subhute  bodhisattva  mahasattva  ekabuddha- 
paryupasita  bhavisyanti  n«ajkabuddhavaropitakusalamula  bhavisyanti,  api  tu  khalu 
punah  Subhute  anekabuddhasatasahasraparyupasita  anekabuddhasatasahasravaropi- 
takusalamulas  te  bodhisattva  mahasattva  bhavisyanti  ya  imesv  evamrupesu  stltranta- 
padesu bhasyamanesv  ekacittaprasadam  api  pratilapsyante.  Jfiatas  te  Subhute  tatha- 
gatena  buddhajflanena  drstas  te  Subhute  tathagatena  buddhacaksusa  buddhas  te 
Subhute  tathagatena.  Sarve  te  Subhute  'prameyam  asamkhyeyam  punyaskandham 
prasavisyanti  pratigrahisyanti.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Na  hi  Subhute  tesaiii  bodhisattvanam 
mahasattvanam  atmasamjfia  pravartate  na  sattvasamjna  na  jlvasamjna  na  pudga- 
lasamjna  pravartate ;  n^api  tesam  Subhute  bodhisatt\'iinam  mahasattvanam  dharma- 
samjna  pravartate  evaiii  n^adharmasamjfia  ;  n«api  tesam  Subhute  samjna  n^asamjiia 
pravartate.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Sacet  Subhute  tesam  bodhisattvanam  mahasattvanam 
dharmasamjna  pravarteta  sa  eva  tesam  atmagraho  bhavet  sattvagraho  jivagrahah 

^  Read  aysnm. 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunetion  at  end  of  line.      Cancel  the  redundant 

hustix  hamcl. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  249 

trariicla    hai^mati  na  vanadrraysa    pusa       pase       khu    trariida    hama 
pravistah      bhavet      na  prajahyat     yada   pravistah    bhavet 

nai-na     hamada  bi- 
na-etad-na    sarvada   bha- 

[15a']  dii    ttatta    baysiiila    vtiysai     kii     nara      ^ira        butti     ni 
rati     evam        bodhi-       sattvah    yada    punah  sivakani    bodhate    na 

vanasara         vama"sta       nai-na     hamada        da         vira    hiyaustyai 
iha-asivakani  (?)     avamrsati    na-anena-na   sarvada  dharmasya   upari 

tcairai  •      Ta      cue        saitta     ^  Sn'^^hhida)    asta  nai    si       da        cu 
kartavyah     Evam    kim-te    bhasate  Siibhute  asti      nu   sab.  dbarmab  yah 

gyasta  baysii-na  ^  hvata  aya  B{^"'[mu  gya)stijau  baysyau-jsa 
yajatena      bhagavata     bbasitah      syat        Sarvaih  yajataih        bbagavadbhih 

hva       aya     ttina     cu     aryapudgala       nyapaiiida       [155']    (Gyasta) 
bbasitah     syat       tena      yat     aryapudgalah    jiiapyamanah  (?)  Yajatah 

baysi  tta       hve      cu     Subhuta     trisahasrrye     mahasahasrrye 

bhagavan-asya    evam    avoeat     yat       Subhute        trisahasryah         mabasahasryab 

lovadata    hau"dyau    ramnyau-jsa   hamberi     hauram   hid  a    tta       cue 
lokadbatum     saptabbih  ratnaib  sampurya       danam     dadati  evam  kim-te 

pudgalagraho  bhavet.  Saeed  adharmasamjna  pravarteta  sa  eva  tesam  atmagrabo 
bhavet  sattvagrabo  jivagrahah  pudgalagraba  iti.  Tat  kasya  hetob.  Na  khalu 
punah  Subhute  bodbisattvena  mahasattvena  dharma  udgrabitavyo  n^adharmah. 
Tasmad  iyam  tathagatena  samdhaya  vag  bhasita.  Kolopamam  dbarmaparyayam 
ajanadbhir  dharma  eva  prabatavyab  prag  ev^adharma  iti.  (7.)  Punar  aparam 
bhagavan  ayusmantam  Subhutim  etad  avoeat,  tat  kirii  manyase  Sabhute  asti  sa 
kascid  dbarmo  yas  tatbagaten^anuttara  samyak-sambodhir  ity  abbisambuddhah 
kascid  va  dharmas  tathagatena  desitah.  Evam  ukta  ayusman  Subbutir  bhaga- 
vantam  etad  avoeat,  yatbiJahaih  bhagavan  bhagavato  bhasitasy#artham  ajanami 
n<;asti  sa  kascid  dbarmo  j'as  tathagaten#anuttara  samyak-sambodhir  ity  abbisam- 
buddhah n^^^sti  dbarmo  yas  tathagatena  desitah.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yo  'sau 
tathagatena  dbarmo  'bbisambuddho  desito  va  agrahyah  so  'nabhilapyah.  Na 
sa  dbarmo  n#adharmah.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Asamskrta-prabbavita  by  arya- 
pudgalah. (8.)  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kim  manyase  Subhute,  yah  kascit  kulaputro 
va  kuladuhita  va  trisahasra-mahasahasram  loka-dhatum  saptaratna-paripurnam  krtva 
tathao-atebhyo   'rhadbhyah  samyak-sambuddhebhyo  danam  dadyat  api  nu  sa  kula- 

'  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  line. 

^  The  correspondence  between  the  two  texts  is  here  very  small. 


250  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

saitta    Subhuta   cu   mani    si   "ibisivrrasai    ova    bisivrrasaina    pharaka 
bhasate    Subhute    kim      nii     sah      kulaputrah     athava      kuladuhita       bahukani 

puna      ysyaiiiiie      ^Su'i'^bhuti      tta      hve      bihi     pharaka     midamna 
punyani      janayet        Svibhutir-asya    evam    avoeat      ati       bahukam       midhvah 

gyasta     baysa        puninai     hambisa 
yajata    bhagavan  punyamayam  samuham 

[16  fti]  ysy[ft«'i]n[e]    Cu  had[a]    h[a]ra    midaiiina    gyasta      baysa 
prasunuyat     Kah       eva        arthah       midhvah.       yajata     bhagavan 

puninai      hambisa  ahambi^^sa   gyasta     baysna    •  ^  hvata  cu    baystista 
punyamayah    samuhah      asamuhah     yajatena  bhagavata         uktah  yat      bodhim 

nara   paraysda  khu    data^"    ttye     kina     gyasta      baysa       tta       hve 
punah  yatha  dharmah  tasya    krtena    yajatah    bhagavan    evam    avoeat 

sa       puninai     hambisa  Cu    ^trasa'^'*'[/i asrre]    mahasahasrre  lovadata 
ntlnam  punyamayah  samuhah    Yat         trisahasryah  mahasahasryah  lokadhatun 

haurarii  hicla       ^i        vatca  aya  cu  idharma«[16&i]paryaya  tciirampata 
danam     dadati  dvitiyah  punah  s\'at  yah         dharmaparyayasya  catuspadikam 

sau     gaha      nasati         sajiya        o     va  hamdiryaiii  "vistarna  birasiya 
ekam  gatham    grhniyat    udgrhniyut  atha  va     parebh^'ah         vistarena  prakasayet 

si    hade  ttina  puiia-na    avamata     puna     "^ysyaiie     anamkhista     Tta 
sah     eva      tena     punyena    aprameyani  punyani  prasunuyat   asamkhyeyani  Evam 


putro  va  kuladuhita  va  tato  nidanam  bahu  punya-skandhaiii  prasunuyat.  Subhntir 
aha,  bahu  bhagavan  bahu  sugata  sa  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita  va  tato  nidanam 
punya-skandhaih  prasunuyat.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yo  'sau  bhagavan  punyaskan- 
dhas  tathagatena  bhasitah  askandhah  sa  tathagatena  bhasitah.  Tasmat  tathagato 
bhasate,  punyaskandhah  punyaskandha  iti.  Bhagavan  aha,  yas  ea  khalu  punah 
Subhute  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita  v#emam  trisahasra-mahasahasram  lokadhatum 
saptaratna-paripurnam  krtva  tathagatebh}'o  'rhadbhj'ah  samyaksambuddhebhyo 
danam  dadyat  yas  c*eto  dharmaparyayad  antasas  catuspadikam  api  gatham  udgrhya 
parebhyo  vistarena  desayet  sariiprakfisayed  ayam  eva  tato  nidanam  bahutaram  pun- 
yaskandham  prasunuyad  aprameyam  asamkbyej-am.     Tat  kasya  hetoh.     Ato  niijata 


^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  line. 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  in  space  before  ringhole. 


IN   THE   OLD  KHOTANESE   VERSION  251 

cu        hara       kina     Ttattika    naraiiida    gyasta     i^baysa       baysana 
kasya    arthasya    krtena         Atah  nirgata        yajata      bhagavan    bhagavatam 

baysu^ta    Tta      cue     saitta  Subhuta    cu    maui   si    srrautta- 
bodhih      Evam  kim-te  bbasate    Subhute    kim      nu      api     srotaa- 

[17  ai]     vana       tta     hame      na        sa       muhu-jsa    srrautavamna 
pannasj'a    evam    bhavet    nanu    nunam        maya         srotaapannSnam 

pharra    byatida    tcamua    ra    va    ni     "i        sM,         kama  da       tta^ 

phalam     praptam        yadi        ea     vai    na    syat    nunam     katamab.    dbarmah   tena 

aryastagamarginai  namaysa-na  hamphve  Subhtiiiiti  tta  hve  ni 
aryastahgamargikena      namasa  (?)     sambbutab-asti  Subbutih-asya  evam  avocat  na 

midailina  gyasta     baysa      ttinka       sa       harna       hamphve      ^  Ttina  • 
midbvab      yajata    bhagavan  alpena  (?)  nunam  arthena  saiiibbutab-asti       Tena 

I'^srrauttavamna    hvida    ni    ruvyau-jsa        hamphve       ni    bajasyau    ni 
srotaapannab         ucyate     na         rupaib  sambbutab-asti    na       sabdaib       na 

busaiian-jsa    [17  5^]   ni    skvaumayau  ^    na    dharniyau-jsa       hamphve 
gandbaib  '    na  sparsaib  na         dbarmaib  sambbutab-asti 

Ttina  sakrttagama  '    hvida    Cu  ^  mani  •  ^^sai  sakrttagama    tta    hama 
Tena       sakrdagami         ucyate    Kim       nu  api  sakrdagaminab  evam  bbavet 

sa      muhu-jsa   sakrttagama    "  pharra  •  iiibyauda  •  tcamna    ra    va    ni 
nunam        maya       sakrdagaminam      pbalam        praptam  yadi        ca    vai    na 

hi  Subbnte  tatbagatanam  arhatam  samyaksambuddbanam  anuttara  samyaksambodbir 
ato  nirjatas  ca  buddba  bbagavantab.  Tat  kasya  betoh.  Buddbadbarma  buddba- 
dbarma  iti  Subbute  'buddbadbarmas  c#aiva  te  tatbagatena  bbasitah.  Ten^ocyante 
buddbadbarma  iti.  (9.)  Tat  kim  manyase  Subbute,  api  nu  srotaapannasy#aivam 
bbavati,  maya  srotaaiDattijjbalam  praptam  iti.  Subbutir  aba,  no  b«idam  bhagavan. 
Na  srotaapannasyi^aivam  bbavati,  maya  srotaapattijihalam  praptam  iti.  Tat  kasya 
betob.  Na  hi  sa  bhagavan  kamcid  dbarmam  apannab.  Ten«6cyate  srotaapanna 
iti.  Na  rupam  apanno  na  sabdan  na  gandban  na  rasan  na  sprastavyan  dbarmiin 
apannab.  Ten#&cyate  srotaapanna  iti.  Saced  bhagavan  srotaapannasy#aivam 
bbaven,  maya  srotaapattiphalam  prS.ptam  iti,  sa  eva  tasy#atmagrabo  bhavet 
sattvagrabo  jrvagrabo  pudgalagraho  bhaved  iti.  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kim  manyase 
Subbute,  api  nu  sakrdagamina  evam  bbavati,  maya  sakrdagamipbalam  praptam  iti. 
Subhutir  aba,  no  h«idam  bhagavan,  na  sakrdagamina  evam  bbavati,  maya  sakrdaga- 
mipbalam praptam  iti.  Tat  kasya  hetob.  Na  hi  sa  kascid  dharmo  yah  sakrdaga- 
mitvam  apannab.     Ten#6cyate   sakrdagam#iti.     Bhagavan  aba,  tat  kim  manyase 

^  Read  t(ana  (?).  "^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  line. 

^  Read  skaiimavyau.  *  Read  srraiddvana. 


252  VAJRACCHEDIKl 

i        sa       kamma     data     ttana      Subhuvi       tta        hve        sa       ^'^ni 
syat  nunam   katamah  dharmah    tena    Subhutih-asya  evam     avocat    nunam      na 

midamna  gyasta  baysa  ni^ta  kamu-ja  si  dliarma  cu  sakrtta- 
mldhvah       yajata     bhagavan    na-asti        kascit        sah    dharmah    yah      sakrda- 

gamma    Ba- 
"•ami      Bhaga- 

[18a*]       ysi        tta      hve.     tta      cue      saitta    Subhtiva   cu  mani 
van-asya  evam  avocat  evam  kim-te  bhasate     Subhute     kim     bu 

arahamda    hama    na       sa       muhu-"jsa    araliamdauna    byauda   tcamna 
arhatah      bhavet    nu    nunam         maya  arhattvam         praptam       yena 

klaisina  sana  ttiisa  yanuma  i^iSubhuvi  tta  hve  na  midana 
klesamayan    arm     tavisi       karomi     Subhutih-asya    evam     avocat     na    midhvah 

gyasta     baysa      ni^ta     si    dharma  cu  arahami"^dauna  nama  aya     ci 
yajata    bhagavan    na-asti   sah    dharmah  yah         arhattvam         nama    syat    sacet 

arahamda    tta     hama       si      muhu-jsa   arahamdau[18  h^']na  •  ^    byauda 
arhatah      evam    bhavet    nunam       maya  arhattvam  praptam 

si  liada  uysana-nasama  hama  o  satva-nasama  jiva-nasa"ma  pudgala- 
sah     eva  atmagrahah      bhavet  atha    sattvagrahah        jivagrahah       pudgala- 

nasama  Gyasta  baysa-na  klaigna  sanam  jauni  sa  ma  a^^nada 
grahah    Yajatena  bhagavata    klesamayanam     arinam    hanih    sa     me   iijjvala(?) 

bi^a-pirmattama    hvata    aysa    arahamjnam    pahausta    brriyai-i'^jsa    iii 
visvaparama  ukta       aham       arhajjfianam         nyavasi  ragena  na 

Subhute  api  nv  anagamina  evam  bhavati,  may^anagamiphalam  praptam  iti. 
Subhutir  aha,  no  h^idam  bhagavan,  n^anagamina  evam  bhavati,  may^anagamiphalam 
praptam  iti.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Na  hi  sa  bhagavan  kascid  dharmo  yo  'nagamitvam 
apannah.  Ten^ocyate  'nagam^iti.  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kim  manyase  Subhute,  api 
nv  arhata  evam  bhavati,  may#arhattvam  praptam  iti.  Subhutir  aha,  no  h^idam 
bhagavan,  n<;arhata  evaih  bhavati,  may#arhattvam  praptam  iti.  Tat  kasya  hetoh. 
Na  hi  sa  bhagavan  kascid  dharmo  yo  'rhan  nama.  Ten<;6cyate  'rhann  iti.  Saced 
bhagavann  arhata  evam  bhaven,  may^arhattvam  praptam  iti  sa  eva  tasy^atmagraho 
bhavet  sattvagraho  jivagrahah  pudgalagraho  bhavet.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Aham 
asmi  bhagavams  tathagaten^^arhata  samyaksambuddhen^aranaviharinam  agryo 
nirdistah.  Aham  asmi  bhagavann  arhan  vitaragah.  Na  ca  me  bhagavann  evaih 
bhavati,  arhann  asmy  aham  vltaraga  iti.  Sacen  mama  bhagavann  evam  bhaven, 
may^arhattvam  praptam  iti,  na  mam  tathagato  vyakarisyad,  aranaviharinam  agryah 

1  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 


IN  THE  OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  SSS 

muhu  gyasta     baysa       vyirasa     aranavyiharai  bi^a-pirmattama  a- 
mam     yajatah  bhagavan  vyakarisyat       araniivihari  visva-paramah      a- 

[19  a^]   raiiina    cu    samabana      anadai      cu     hamdarye    samttana 
rane      yah    samadhane    njjvalah  (?)    yah      anyasmin         saihtane 

klai|inai  jaiini  aiispasde  Gyasta  baysa  tta  hve  tta  cue  saitta 
klesakam    hanim    iksate  (?)     Yajatah  bhagavan  evam  avoeat  evam  kim-te  bhasate 

Subhuva    asta    nai    si         da         cu    mui"hu-jsa  Dipamkara  -^    gyasta 
Subhute       asti      nu     sah    dharmah    yah         maya         Dipamkarasya      j'ajatasya 

baysa        inaka         na  aya      aya  ^     a^'^dhigama-svabhavi        da 

bhagavatah    antikat    udgrhitah     syat      syat         adhigama-svabhavikah     dharmah 

ni  na         hama       Subhtivi        tta      hve       sa       midamna  gyasta 

nanu    udgrhitah    bhavet    Subhutih-asya    evam  avoeat  nunam     mTdh\-ah      yajata 

ba[19  ftijysa    ni^ta    kamuja    si         da        cu     thu     Dipamgara    gyasta 
bhagavan      na-asti      kascit      sah    dharmah    yam    tvam     Dipamkarat     yajatafc 

baysa-na  na         ayai  •  "ttana    cu    adhigamasubhava  ^      data      na 

bhagavatah  udgrhitavan   syah         tena     yat     adhigamasvabhavah      dharmah    na 

na        hama      Subhuvi        tta      hve        sa       i"na  midamna  gyasta 
udgrhitah    bhavet  Subhutih-asya    evam  avoeat    nunam        na      midhvah      yajata 

si         da         cu       thu      Dipakara    ba'^^ysa-na 
sah    dharmah  yam     tvam    Dipamkarat     bhagavatah 

Cu     Subhuva    tta    liurii^       sa      aysa    bud- 
antikat  udgrhitavan    syah      Yah      Subhute     evam    vadet       nunam    aham     bud- 

dhaksi- 
dhakse- 

[20  fti]      tra    padamja  piskala     nasphaiiii       si      kura     hvaiie    Ci 
tranam  santakan     vyuhan    nispadayeyam    sah  vitatham    vadet     Ye 

Subhutih  kulaputro  na  kvacid  viharati,  ten«6cyate  'ranavihary  aranavihar^iti. 
(10.)  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kirn  manj^ase  Subhute,  asti  sa  kascid  dharmo  yas  tatha- 
gatena  Dijtamkarasya  tathagatasy#arhatah  samyaksambuddhasy#antikad  udgrhitah. 
Subhutir  aha,  no  h^idam  bhagavan  n^^asti  sa  kascid  dharmo  yas  tathagatena  Dipam- 
karasya tathagatasy«arhatah  samyaksambuddhasy<;antikad  udgrhitah.  Bhagavan 
aha,  yah  kascit  Subhute  bodhisattva  evam  vaded,  ahahi  ksetravyuhan  nispadayisyam* 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  in  space  before  ringhole. 

^  Cancel  the  redundant  aya.  ^  Eead  -svalhdva. 

*  Read  ayai  ;  the  whole  passage  has  been  wrongly  repeated. 

^  Read  hvafii. 


baysa 
bhagavan 

ni^ti 
na-asti 

kamuja 
kascit 

iiiaka 

na 

aya* 

254  VAJKACCHEDIKA 

buddhaksitravyuha      avytilia     'iaviskastil     arupina     gyasta     baysa-na 
buddhaksetravyuhah        avyuhah.       avyuhitah       arupinah     yajatena     bhagavata 

hvata  •       Ttye     kina      Sublmta     "ibaudhisatva      avaranttix      aysmu 
uktah  Tasya    krtena       Subhute         bodhisattvena       apratisthitam     cittani 

^taka  ni     ruva     vira     parauttii    ^'^ni    bajasa    ni  bu^anam    ni 

utpadayitavyam  na  rupanam  upari  pratistbitam  na    sabdanam  na   gandbanam  na 

ysvamiia   na   skaumata   na   dharmam    vira   hau[20Z)i]ra  h(ai()ra[)ii]na  • 
rasanam      na     sparsanam      na   dharmanam  upari         danam  datavyam 

Ttramma   mamnam     Subhuva     cl        jii         hve       aya    cu     didamda 
Evam  upamam         Subbute    sacet   kascit    purnsah    syat     yat    evariirupab 

ttaramdaiira     aya     khu     Sumira    gara     tta     cue     suaitta  ^     Subhuta 
atmabbavab      syat     yatba    Sumerub    girih      tat    kim-te     bbasate        Subbute 

mista  na  ttaramdara  "'na  khu  Sumira  gara  Bihi  mista  midamna 
mahan    nu    atmabbavab        nu    yatba  Sumerub    girib        Ati     maban     midbvab 

gyasta    baysa  Baysi  tta    ''^hve     ctbhava    si    ttaramdara  ttana 

yajata  bbagavan  Bbagavan-asya  evam   avocat    abbavah    sah    atmabbavab    tena 

atmabhavii    baysarhna      saljbaugi     tta- 
atmabbavah    bbagavatam   sariibbogikah     a- 

[21ai]  raiiidara    anau    skajsikana     bajaitti     Gyasta         baysi 

tmabbavah    vina  saihskaranam  (?)  kipyate  (?)    Yajatab   bbagavan-asya 

iti  sa  vitatbam  vadet.  Tat  kasya  betoh,  Ksetra-vyubab  ksetra-vyuba  iti  Subbute 
Vyubas  te  tatbagatena  bbasitah.  Ten#6cyante  ksetra-vyuba  iti.  Tasmat  tarbi 
Subbute  bodbisattvena  mabasattven^^aivam  apratistbitam  cittam  utpadayitavyam 
yan  na  kvacit  pratistbitam  cittam  utpadayitavyam  na  rupa-pratistbitam  cittam 
utpadayitavyam  na  sabda-gandha-rasa-sprastavya-dbarma-pratistbitam  cittam  utpa- 
dayitavyam. Tad  yatb^api  nama  Subbute  puruso  bbaved  upeta-kayo  mabakayo  yat 
tasy^aivamrupa  atmabbavab  syat  tadyatbr-api  nama  Sumerub  parvata-rajab  ;  tat  kim 
manyase  Subbiite  api  nn  maban  sa  atmabbavo  bbavet.  Subbutir  aba,  maban  sa  bbaga- 
van maban  sugata  sa  atmabbavo  bbavet.  Tat  kasya  betob.  Atmabbava  atmabbava 
iti  bbagavann  abbavab  sa  tatbagatena  bbasitab.  Ten^ocyata  atmabbava  iti.  Na  bi 
bbagavan  sa  bbavo  n#abbavab;  teni^oeyata  atmabbava  iti.  (11.)  Bbagavan  aha,  tat 
kim  manyase  Subbute  yavatyo  Gangayam  mabanadyam  valukas  tavatya  eva  Gan- 
ganadyo  bbaveyuh.  Tasu  ya  valuka  api  nu  ta  babvj^o  bbaveyub.  Subbutir  aba,  ta  eva 
tavad  bbagavan  babvyo  Gamganadyo  bbaveyuh  prag  eva  yas  tasu   Gamganadisu 

^  Read  saittcL 


IN   THE   OLD  KHOTANESE   VERSION  255 

tta     live    ttatta    Gaiiiga     nyaya  "gruicyau-sye    didira  •  ^     lovadata 
evam  avocat    evam    Garhgayah   nadyah       valukabhih        tavantah   lokadhatavah 
hamari  *  kaiiimuja  daha     a-va   stri"iya  haudyau  ramnyau-jsa  hambira 
bhavanti         kascit     purusah  athava       stri        saptabhih         ratnaih        saiiipurya 

gyastam    baysaiiinu    haura    hidii,        caiiidi        ''^puna    ku^alii     mula  '^ 
yajatanam    bhagavatam    danam    dadati    kiyanti-asya    punyani  kusalasya    mulani 

hamari  ttye      daha       o-va     striyai    cu    ttye     Vajrrachedakyi    [2l6i] 
bhavanti  tasya  purusasya  athava    striyah    yah  tasyah    Vajracchedikayah 

[j9ra/7l(:'Zpa]ra[m]m[i]    vira      tcuraiiipati       sau      gahii      dijsati     vasiya 
prajnaparamitayah         upari     catuspadikam      ekam     gatham     dharayet    vacayet 

saji        iihamdaramna  vistarna  uysdisiya   ttye      pracainai     pharaka 
udgrhniyat  anyesam         vistarena    uddesayet   tasya  pratyayena-asya  bahuni 

puiiifia     ku^ala     mula     hamari  •     Kamye     ^adyi      piskala    vira    si 
punyani    kusalasya    mulani     bhavanti  Yasya    prthivyah  pradesasya  upari    sah 

da        i'^i  pajsamaviya  si  di^JL  hama  haiiitsa  gyasta     u       hvariida 
dharmah  syat      pujaniyah       sa    disa    bhavet      saha      devasya  tatha   manusyasya 

ysama-saiiidai-na  ka- 
prthivi-lokena ;   ya- 

[22  a']    m-iia     di^-iia        da  i       cittye  mamnamda    sa    disa 

syam      disayam    dharmah    syat  caityasya        upama  sa      disa 


valukah.  Bhagavan  aha,  arocayami  te  Subhute  prativedayami  te  yavatyas  tasu  Gam- 
ganadisu  valuka  bhaveyus  tavato  lokadhatun  kascid  eva  str!  va  puruso  va  sapta-ratna- 
paripurnam  krtva  tathagatebhyo  'rhadbhyah  samyak-sambuddhebhyo  danam  dadyat, 
tat  kim  manyase  Subhute  api  nu  sa  stri  va  puruso  va  tato  nidanam  bahu  punya- 
skandham  prasunuyat.  Subhutir  aha,  bahu  bhagavan  bahu.  sugata  stri  va  pru'uso  va 
tato  nidanam  punya-skandham  prasunuyad  aprameyam  asamkhyeyam.  Bhagavan  aha, 
yas  ca  khalu  punah  Subhute  stri  va  puruso  va  tavato  lokadhatun  sapta-ratna-pari- 
piirnam  krtva  tathagatebhyo  'rhadbhyah  samyak-sambuddhebhyo  danam  dadyab 
yas  ca  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita  v^eto  dharmaparyayad  antasas  catuspadikam  api 
gatham  udgrhya  parebhyo  desayet  samprakasayed  ayam  eva  tato  nidanam  bahutaram 
punya-skandham  prasunuyad  aprameyam  asamkhyeyam.  (12.)  Api  tu  khalu  punah 
Subhute  yasmin  prthivi-pradesa  ito  dharmaparyayad  antasas  catuspadikam  api 
gatham  udgrhya  bhasyeta  va  samprakasyeta  va  sa  prthivl-pradesas  caityabhiito 
bhavet  sa-deva-manus-asurasya  lokasya  kah  punar  vado  ya  imam  dharma-paryayam 
sakala-samaptam  dharayisyanti  vacayisyanti  paryavapsyanti  parebhyas  ca  vistarena 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction.  ^  Read  ?«i2/a,  as  in  215'" 


256  VA.JRACCHEDIKA 

parsa      hama    ttatta    La  manamna    "sa    Sastara   ttara      asti         u 
prasadika    bhavet     evam       a     mananlyah  nunam     sasta        tatra        aste        tatha 

hastamii  pirmattamma  pisai  •       Ttye    hvaye  i"hvanai     asiri   Subhuta  ^ 
sattamah         paramah  guruh       Tasmin     ukte        vacane     acaryah    Subhutih 

gyasta        baysa         tta      hve      ci    nama  gyasta     baysa     i'^si       da 
yajatam  bhagavantam    evam    avocat    kah   nama      yajata    bbagavan  sah  dharmab. 

u  kliuai         nama    dijsi      Ttye    hvayai  hvanai  gyasta      baysa 

tatha  katham-vai-asya  nama  dbaraye  Tasmin     ukte      vacane    yajatah   bbagavan 

tta      hve        prajna[22  Wl^paramma      na']ma  ^    Subhuva    si        data 
evam    avocat  prajnaparamita  nama  Subbute    sab    dbarmab 

ttattai     nama     dijsi         tta     si    hadi    gyasta    ba"(2/sa)-na  aparamma 
evam-asya    nama    dbaraya     evam   sab     eva     yajatena      bbagavata       aparamita 

hvata-  Tta  cue  saitta  Subhuva  a^ta  nai  si  data  i"cu  gyasta 
bbasita        Tat    kim-te  bbasate    Subbute      asti     nu    sab  dbarmab   yab    yajatena 

baysa-na  hva  aya  Subhuvi  tta  hve  khu  aysa  midami'^'na 
bbagavata  bbasitab    syat  Subbutib-asya  evam   avocat  yatba     abam       midbvab 

gyasta     baysa     ttye     hvanai     artha     bve    ni^ta  kamuja   si       da 
yajata    bbagavan   tasya  bbasitasya  artbam  bodbe    na-asti    kascit     sab   dbarmab 

cu    bi^au 
yab  visvaib 

[23  fti]  gyastyau  baysyau-jsa      hva     aya  Bay  si         tta      hve 

yajataib    bbagavadbbib  bbasitab  syat    Bbagavan-asya  evam  avocat 

samprabasayisyanti.  Paramena  te  Subbuta  ascaryena  samanvagata  bhavisyanti. 
Tasmims  ca  Subbute  prtbivi-pradese  sasta  viharaty  anyatar-^nyataro  va  vijna- 
guru-stbaniyab.  (13.)  Evam  ukta  ayusman  Subbutir  bbagavantam  etad  avocat, 
ko  nam«ayam  bbagavan  dbarma-paryayab  katbam  c^ainam  dbarayami.  Evam  ukte 
bbagavan  ayusmantam  Subbutim  etad  avocat^  prajnaparamita  nam^ayam  Subbute 
dbarma-paryayab,  evam  c^ainam  dbaraya.  Tat  kasya  betob.  Y«aiva  Subbute 
prajnaparamita  tatbagatena  bbasita  s<:aiv*aparamita  tatbagatena  bbasita,  ten<;ocyate 
prajiiaparamit^eti.  Tat  kim  manyase  Subbute  api  nv  asti  sa  kascid  dbarmo 
yas  tatbagatena  bbasitah.  Subbutir  aba,  no  .beldam  bbagavan  n^^sti  sa  kascid 
dbarmo  yas  tatbagatena  bbasitab.  \_/l.  6-12,  j).  29,  are  not  translated,  in  cmr  manuscript ?\ 
Bbagavan  aba,  tat  kim  manyase  Subbute  dvatrimsan-mabapurusa-laksanais  tatba- 

^  Read  Subliuta. 

^  The  first  four  aksaras  of  fob  22  b  have  peeled  off,  owing  to  that  corner  having 
stuck  to  the  subjacent  fob  23  a. 


IN  THE  OLD  KHOTANESE  VERSION  257 

tta  cue  saitta  Subhuva  dvaradiiirsau  mahapurasalaksanyau-jsa 
evam   kim-te     bhasate      Subhiite      dvatrimsadbliih  mahapurusalaksanaih 

gyasta  baysa  dyamiia  nai  Subhuti  tta  '"hve  na  midamna 
yajatah    bhagavan    drastavyah.    nn    Siibhutih-asya    evam    avocat    na      midhvah 

gyasta  baysa  dvavaradirsa  hudihuna  gtina  i'^aguna  baysii-na 
yajata    bhagavan      dvatrirnsat  snpnrusa-      laksanani    alaksanani    bhagavata 

hvata     ttana    cu    datinai  ttaradani  ^  anavyamjani[23  W]xi3u\  rupakaya 
bhasitani     tena       yat    dharma-         kayah  anuvyanjanavan  rupakriyah 

ttaramdara     ttina     hvanari    dvaradirsa    ^  hndiliuna      "guna      Cu      va 
kajrah  tena.       ucyante       dvatririisat  supurusa-       laksanani     Yat     vai 

Subhtiva  ^     dahii        a-va       strlya       Gamgii        nvaya      grmcyau-'^sye 
Subhute        purusah      athava        stri  Gangayah       nadyuh  valukabhih 

mailamda  ttaraiiidara      pasti  si        ja  va  aya  cu  ttye      sutra  '^'vira 

upamitan  kayun       paryat}'ajat  dvitlyah  cit  vai  syat  yah  tasja  sutrasya   upari 

tcurapati      gaha     pati       sajlyii      haiiidaranu  vistarna  bi- 
catuspadikam  gatham  srnoti  udgrhnlyat     anyebhyah      vistarena  pra- 

[24  ai]     rasj^/a  budari        puniuai     hariiblsai      hame    avamata 

kasayet     bahutarah-asya    punya-    samuhah-asya  bhavet  aprameyah 

anarhkhistye  *  ra    "Tti    mi      asiri      Subhuta    ddharmaviga-na  -'     aski 
asariikhyeyah    jatu    Atha  aefiryah      Subhutih         dhavmavegena        asrunah 

cira      yude  a'"ska  mi     ustadi      gyasta         baysa  tta      hve     bihi 

kiranam  akarot    asruni  pramarjat    3'ajatam  bbagavantam    evam  avocat     ati 

gato  'rhan  samyak-sariibuddho  drastavyah.  Subhutir  aha,  no  h^idaiia  bhagavan 
dvatrimsan-mahapnrusa-laksanais  tathagato  'rhan  samyak-sarhbuddho  drastavyah. 
Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yani  hi  tani  bhagavan  dvatrimsan-mahapurnsa-laksanani  tatha- 
gatena  bhasitany  alaksanani  tani  bhagavams  tathagatena  bhasitani.  Ten#6cyante 
dvatririisan-mahapurusa-laksanan#it.i.  Bhagavan  aha,  yas  ca  khalu  punah  Subhute 
strl  va  pnruso  va  dine  dine  Gaiiiganadl-valuka-saman  atmabhavan  parityajet  evarh 
parityajan  Gamganadi-valuka-saman  kalpariis  tan  atmabhavan  parityajet  yas  Ci^eto 
dharma-paryayad  antasas  catuspadikam  api  gatham  udgrhya  parebhyo  desayet 
ijamprakasayed  ayam  eva  tato  nidanaih  bahutararii  punya-skandham  prasunuyad 
aprameyam  asamkhyeyam.  (14.)  Atha  khalv  aynsman  Subhutir  dharma-vegen# 
asruni  pramuncat.      So  'sruni  pramrjya  bhagavantam  etad  avocat,  ascaryarii  bhaga- 

^  See  Vocabulary.  ^  Read  perhaps  liudihuua. 

^  Read  Subhuva.  *  Read  anaiakhisiii.  ^  Read  dharmaxlrja-na. 


258  VAJEACCHEDIKl 

duskara  miclamua  gya'^'sto     ^ysa      si         da        ku-jsa  maiii  bvaiiima 

duskarah     midhvah        yajata     bhagavan    sah    dharmah     yatah       me       jiianam 

patata  Ni  ra  muhu-jsa  didira  gam[24  ?>i]b]iira  da  pyusta 
utthitam    Na    jatu  maya        evainrupah  gambhirah         dharmah     srutah 

Cu  sa  hhixttasariiiia  sa  hadi  abhutasamfia  Na  tea  baysa  ^a"sam  sa 
la    sa      bhutasamjiia    sa    eva      abhutasariijna       Na     ea  bhagavatam  sasanam    sa 

samiia     Cu    ttti         da  sadahidii     pira  ^     La    yanati     ni-ni      ttyaiii 

sariijiiri        Ye    tam     dharmam    sraddadhati    likhati       fi       karoti       na-na       tesam 

"iuysaiiiiSe  vi    samna  prravartta  ni     satva    vira    sariina  ni  jvaka     vi 
atmanah     upari  samjSa     pravarttet    na  sattvasya  upari    samjna    na  jivasya    upari 

'^na    pudgala      vi       samna    na-na    ttyamna    ni       tcarimai      nasaka 
na     pudgalasya  npaii     samjna      na-na         tesam         na         caramah        grahakah. 

artha     vira 
arthasya  upari 

[25  o.i]  hanasii    astil  -       Ttye     hvay[rt4']     hvanai    gyastii      baysii 
grahah      asti  Tasmin        ukte  vacane      yajatah     bhagavan 

van  param-usearyam  sugata  yavad  ayarii  dharma-paryayas  tathagatena  bhasito 
'gra-yana-samprasthitanam  sattvanam  artha j'a  srestha-j'ana-samprasthitanam  arthaya 
yato  me  bhagavan  jnanam  utpannam.  Na  maya  bhagavan  jatv  evamrupo  dharma- 
paryayah  srutapurvah.  Paramena  te  bhagavann  ascaryena  samanvagata  bodhisattva 
bhavisyanti  ya  iha  sutre  bhasyamane  srutva  bhuta-saihjnam  utpadayisyanti.  Tat 
kas^^a  hetoh.  Ya  c^aisa  bhagavan  bhuta-samjna  s*aiv<;abhuta-samjna.  Tasmat 
tathagato  bhasate  bhuta-samjfia  bhuta-samjn^eti.  Na  mama  bhagavann  ascaryam 
yad«aham  imam  dharma-paryayaiii  bhas\amanam  avakalpayamy  adhimucye.  1  e  'pi 
te  bhagavan  sattva  bhavisyanty  anagate  'dhvani  paseime  kale  pascime  samaye 
pascimayurh  pancasatyarii  saddliarma-vipralope  vartamane  ya  imam  bhagavan 
dharma-paryayam  udgrahlsyanti  dharayisyanti  vacayisyanti  paryavapsyanti  pare- 
bhyas  ca  vistarena  sarhprakasayisj-anti  te  param-ascaryena  samanvagata  bhavisyanti. 
Api  tu  khalu  piinar  bhagavan  na  tesam  atma-samjna  pravartisyate  na  sattva-saiiijna 
na  jiva-samjna  na  pudgala-samjna  pravartisyate,  n#api  tesam  kacit  sariijna  n^asamjna 
pravartate.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Ya  sa  bhagavann  atma-samjna  s«ajv*asamjna  ;  ya 
sattva-samjna  jiva-samjna  pudgala-saiiijna  s*aiv'-;asamjna.  Tat  kasj^a  hetoh.  Sarva- 
samjn-apagata  hi  buddha  bhagavantah.     Evam  nkte  bhagavan  ayusmantam  Subhu- 

^  The  syllable  tid,  in  small  cursive  characters,  is  inserted  in  the  interlinear 
space,  between  11.  2  and  3,  below  rahd ;  and  the  word  appears  to  be  intended  to  be 
read  plrdttd. ;  we  should  probably  read  plrdti. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  259 

asirl      Subliuta     tta       live      "ttatta     g}'asta    baysii  •  ^    pirmattarna 
acaiyam     Subhutim    evam    avoeat       evam         yajata      bhagavan       paramena 

duskare-jsa  hariiphva   hvamari  -^    cu    ttye     sutra       "ilivadii        ana    ni 
duskarena      sambhutali      bhavanti      ye     asya    sutrasya  bbasitavantah.  aslnah  na 

pvaida      ni     hariysari     ni  traysii   byehida  i"^Pirmattama  duskara  sa 
uttrasj'anti    na    samtrasyanti    na     trasam    apadyante        Parama-  duskaiTi     sa 

]>araihma  tva    paramma    avamata    gyasta         baysa      [25  ¥]     hvadcl  • 
paramita    tam    pararaitam    aparimanah    yajatah    bhagavantah  abhasanta 

Ttana  ksamautitija  parama    hivya      tea  pamaka  hama  •  Kama  ba"da-na 
Tena         ksanti-        paramita  sambandhini  ca   parimita  bhavet    Yasmin      samaye 

mammii    kalarri  •  ^    agaprattyamga      pjiste         na-ni      mamma      ttye 
me  kalirajah       angapratyangam     accbaitsit        na-na  me  tasmin 

stye      atma«*  i"saiiina      vya      ni    satvasamiia  ni  jivasamna    na    pud- 
samaye  atmasamjna         babhuva   na     sattvasamjfia    na    jivasamjna     na     pad- 

galasaiiifia  na  maiii  ttu  bai'^da  samfia  vya  u  ni  asamna  Cu 
galasariijiia    na      me       tam  kalam      samjna    babhuva    tatha    na    asamjiia      Yadi 

marii  sai  ysurasaiiiiia        vya       mu^ta-jsa    ra   hamphva 
me      api     atmasamjna    abbavisyat    vyapadena  jatu    sambhuta 

[26ai]mam  sariula    hamiya      Paysani  aysa  Subhuva  byata  yani 
me      samjna  abbavisyat       Prajane    aham     Subhute     smrtim  kurve 

tim  etad  avoeat,  evam  etat  Subbute  evam  etat.  Param-ascarya-samanvagatas  te 
sattva  bhavisyanti  ya  iha  Subhute  sutre  bhasyamane  n#6ttrasisyanti  na  samtrasisyanti 
na  saiiitrasam  apatsyante.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Paramaparamit^ej'arii  Subhute  tatha- 
gatena  bhasita  yadut#aparamita.  Yam  ca  Subhute  tathagatah  parama-paramitam 
bbasate  tam  aparimana  api  bnddha  bhagavanto  bhasante.  Ten«6cyate  paramaparamit^ 
eti.  Api  tu  khalu  punab  Subbute  ya  tathagatasya  ksanti-paramita  s#aiv«aparamita. 
Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yada  me  Sabbute  Ka]i(nga)-i-aj*anga-pratyangamamsan)'^ 
accbaitsit  tasmin  samaya  atma-samjna  va  sattva-samjna  va  jiva-samjiia  va  pudgala- 
sarivjna  va  n«api  me  kacit  samjna  v#asamjna  va  babhuva.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Saeen 
me  Subhute  tasmin  samaya  atma-samjn«abhavisyad  vyapada-samjn^api  me  tasmin 
samaye  'bhavisyat.  Sacet  sattva-samjSri  jiva-samjna  pudgala-samjn<;abhavisyad 
vyapada-samjfi^api  me  tasmin  samaye  'bhavisyat.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Abbijanamy 
aham  Subhute  'tite  'dhvani  panca  jati-satani  yad  aham  KsantivadI  rsir  abhuvam. 

1  Read  Suhlmta,  instead  o'i  gyasta  hay  six.    Also  superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

^  Bead  hamdri. 

•^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction.     Note  also  the  misshaped  ka. 

*  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

s2 


260  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

padamjsyariina     ba"dana       pajsa-se      ysatha     katna     badaiiina     aysa 
purvesam  kalanam       panca-satani    janmani      yesam       kalanam       aham 

Ksantavadii    nama       vyi       '"rasiya       Tti     mamma  •  ^  na    atmasaitina 
KsantivadI        nama    babhuva        rsih  Atha  me  na      atmasamjila 

vya      ni  satvasamiia  ni  jivasaiiii'^na  ni  pudgalasamna     Ttye      bara 
babhuva   na   sattvasamjna  na     jivasamjSa     na    pudgalasamjna       Tasya   arthasya 

kina     Sul)huva    Laudhisatva    mista  baysiimna  [26  5i]vu//s«/      bisau 
krtena      Subhute       bodhisattvah      mahan        bodbi-  sattvah  visvabhyah 

samilau-jsa      phisana  •  ^         u        bisa-pirmattamye     bjiysusta      aysmu 
samjnabhyah      varayitavyab.       tatha        vis\'a-paramayam  bodhan         cittam 

"upevamiiiL       ni    ruvarii     vira     parautta      aysmu "     upevamna        ni 
"utpadayitavyam     na    rupanam  upari  pratisthifcam       cittam       utpadayitavyam.    na 

bajasa  "'na  busafiam    ui  ysvaiiinam  ni  skamavaili  na    dharmam  vIra  •  ^ 
sabdanam  na  gandhanam  na     rasanam       na     spai'sanam     na    dharmanam    u]3ari 

na     kustaija       J'^prattakarix      vira       parautta      aysmu^       upevamna 
na       kag3'acit  pratikarasj'a        upari     pratisthitam      citlam       utpadayitavyam 

Avarautta     aysmu  ^-na 
Apratisthitena        cittena 

[27  a']  haura  hauramna    khu    na     gunasaiiina     vira  ni      parahi 
danam     datavyam     yatha   nu  laksanasamjnam  upari  na  pratitisthet 

bi^aiii       satvana       ^iri      ki"na      Sa    sariina    skaddhva  •  ^    na     bidi  * 
visTOsam     sattvanam     sivasya    krtena        Sa     samjfia       skandhesu        na     bbavati 


Tatr^api  me  n^atma-samjna  babhuva  na  sattva-samjna  na  jiva-samjfia  na  pudgala- 
samjna babhuva.  Tasmat  tarhi  Subhute  bodhisattvena  mahasattvena  sarva-samjfia 
vivarjayitv#anuttarayam  samyak-sambodhau  cittam  utpadayitavyam.  Na  rupa- 
pratisthitam  cittam  utpadayitavyam  na  sabda-gandha-rasa-sprastavya-dharma- 
pratisthitam  cittam  utpadayitavyam  na  dharma-pratisthitam  cittam  utpadayitavyam 
n^adharma-pratisthitam  cittam  utpadayitavyam  na  kvacit  pratisthitam  cittam 
utpadayitavyam.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yat  pratisthitam  tad  ev«apratisthitam.  Tasmad 
eva  tathagato  bhasate  apratisthitena  bodhisattvena  danam  datavyarh,  na  rupa- 
sabda-gandha-rasa-sparsa-dharma-pratisthitena  danam  datavyam.  Api  tu  khalu 
punah  Subhute  bodhisattven*aivamrupo  danaparityagah  kartavyah  sarva-sattvanam 


Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction.  ^  Read  aysmu,  as  in  26  6\ 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  261 

Rrasta  hvaiie  Subljuva  gyasta     baysa     hatha  '''hvaiiii        vyaranai 
Rjii        vadet       Subhute     yajatah   bhagavan    satyam      vadet      vyilkaranam-asya 

ni      ana        ttana     cu     prajnai     rrasta     sravakayaua     ha'^tha[?/si;t']Be 
na     anyat  tena      yat      prajnah         rju  sravakayane  satyam 

mahayariina     Ttahara        vyarana     ni    ana  •  Si    ra    Subhtiva   cu[27ii] 
mabayane    Tathagatanam  vyakaranam   na   anyat  Sab  jatu    Subbute     yah 

si        da        cu     baysa-na     busta      ni    vara   hatha       u       ni    drruja 
sah  dbarmah.    j'ab     bhagavata     buddhab.    na      tatra    satyam     tatha    na       mrsa 

Aksaryau-jsa       hva      artha       bi"^a  pari      halai     gitti  •      Ttrama 

Aksaraih        bbasitam   artbam     sarvam     parityajet  disam  gantum  (?)      Evam 

martiiiamda    Subhuva      khu       hve  ttara        vitramda    hai"ma     ni 

upamam  Subbute       yatba    purusah     andbakare       pravistab       bbavet      na 

namuja  ^     hara      vajisdi      ttu        najsada       parahi-pasta     baudhisatva 
kaihcit       artbam       vicaste       tad      vyakhj'atam      pratistbapitah      bodhisattvah 

i"^dyamiia     cu      pari     ni    daitta  •     Ttrama  maiiinamda  Subhuva    khu 
drastavyah    yah     tj'ajet    na     pasyati  Evam  upamam         Subbute     yatba 

tcaimauda     hve        byuste- 
caksusman    purusah       vyusta- 

[28  a']  ye   savi^     saye      urmaysdf/m      bi^uiia        rtiva    daitta    ttu 
yam   ksapi    prabhate  aditye         visvavidhani    rupani    pasyati    tad 

najsada      baysuriiiia    vuiiysai      dyaiia      cu     ni    namye  ^    harii      vira 
vyakbyatam         bodhi-  sattvah     drastavyah    yah     na   kasyacit  arthasya  upari 


arthaya.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Ya  c^^aisa  Subhute  sattva-saiiijna  s#aiv«asaiiijna.  Ya 
evam  te  sarva-sattvas  tathagatena  bhasitas  ta  ev#asattvah.  Tat  kasya  hetoh. 
Bhuta-vadi  Subhute  tathagatah  satya-vadi  tatha-vady  ananyatba-vadi  tatbagatah. 
Na  vitatha-vadi  tatbagatah.  Api  tu  khalu  punah  Subhute  yas  tathagatena  dharmo 
'bhisambuddho  desito  nidhyato  na  tatra  satyam  na  mrsa.  Tadyath«api  nama 
Subhute  puruso  'ndhakara-pravisto  na  kiihcid  api  pasyet  evam  vastu-patito  bodhi- 
sattvo  drastavyo  yo  vastu-patito  danam  parityajati.  Tad  yath#api  nama  Subhute 
caksusman  purusah  prabhatayam  ratrau  surye  'bhyudgate  nana-vidhani  rupani 
pasyet  evam  avastu-patito  bodhisattvo  drastavyo  yo  'vastu-patito  danam  parityajati. 

1  This  syllable  is  damaged,  and  its  reading  uncertain. 

^  Perhaps  wrong  for  kdmvjd,  and  kamye.  ^  Read  sivi. 


262  VAJKACCHEDIKA 

parautta      stana     haurii    hada     ni  •  '  "'pari      ditta       Cu     Subliuva  ^ 
pratisthitah       san       danani     dadati     na         tyajet      pasyati      Yat       Sublmte 

bisiviasai  ^    o-va        bisivrasaina      ci    ttu       ^'^[dd       dijs]sidi  *      vasida 
kulaputrah    athava        kuladuhitarah      ye    tarn    dharmam    dharayanti    vacayanti 

paysamda     hamari       gyasta      baysaiii-jsa       o         dya      hama[28  b^]ri 
prajfiatah       bhavanti      yajatanam     bhagavatam     tatha     drstah  bbavanti 

Avamata     pufiinai  hambisa-na  hamphva   hamari  -        0      striya    o-va 
Aparimitena     punya-        samuhena      sambhutah    bbavanti       Atha       strT      athava 

daiiha  bruhada  Gaiiiga  nyaya  grmcyau-sye  manaiiidii  ttaramdara 
purusah    purvahne    Gangayab   nadyah       valukabhih  saman  kayan 

pamste    svahai"da  pasarit  didira  ttaramdara    paihsti    ttana  pacada-na 
paryatyajat  madhyahne  sayahne  tavatah       kayan        paryatyajat    tena     paryayena 

ktila  kai^pil    vasta         a«a  haurii    hidii         ci        ttu    sutra     pJLti 

kotim    kalpan      yavat    tistbamanah     danam    dadati    yab[-ca]    tat    sutram    srnoti 

iiai     prraksivi      sada     ha 
na-etat  pratiksipet  sraddham  a 

[29  ai]5[xxx /;']y[e  p'fl]c[rn']na    budara   puninai  hamblsii  ysyamne 
tas;)'a       pratyayena     babutaram    pun3'a-    samubam      janayet 

avamata    a»nariikhistix     Cu   nara  va«i         cuai  piridai        budarii 

aprameyam    asaiiikbyeyam     Kim  punab    vai     yada-kecit    likbanti-etat  babutaram 

Api  tu  kbalu  punab  Subbute  ye  kulaputra  va  kuladubitaro  v#emam  dbarma-paryayam 
udgrabisyanti  dbarayisyanti  vacayisyanti  paryavapsyanti  parebhyas  ea  vistarena 
samprakasayisyanti  jnatas  te  Subhiite  tatbagatena  buddba-jfianena  drstas  te  Subbute 
tatbagatena  buddha-caksusa  buddbas  te  tatbiXgatena.  Sarve  te  Subbute  sattva 
aprameyam  asaiiikbyeyam  pun3'a-skandbam  prasavisyanti  pratigrabisyanti.  (15.)  Yas 
ca  kbalu  punab  Subbute  strl  va  puruso  va  purvabna-kalasamaye  Ganganadi-vahika- 
saman  atmabbavan  parityajet  evam  madhyabna-kalasamaj^e  Ganganadi-yaluka- 
saman  atmabbavan  parityajet  sayabna-kalasamaye  Gariganadi-yahika-saman  atma- 
bbavan parityajet  anena  paryayena  babuni  kalpa-koti-niyuta-sata-sabasrany  atma- 
bbavan parityajet  yas  c^emarii  dbarma-paryayam  srutva  na  pratiksipet  ayam  eva 
tato  nidanam  babutaram  punya-skandbam  prasunuyad  aprameyam  asaiiikbyeyam. 
Kah  punar  vado  yo  likbitv^odgrbniyad  dharayed  vacayet  paryavapnuyat  parebbyas 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction.  ^  Read  Suh/iuva. 

^  [Probably  read  hhlvrdsd,  as  in  29  i". — R.  H.] 
*  The  three  first  syllables  have  peeled  oif. 

^  The  first  five  syllables  have  peeled  off,  only  tbe  y  of  \tt\y\e  jjru'\cama  being 
legible  ;  read  perhaps  yam  ttye. 


m  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  263 

puninai    hambisa    ysyane    "'avamata        anakhista^        Cu     nara     va 
punya-       samuham     janayet      aprameyam       asamkhj'eyam         Kim    punah    vai 

cue  saji         o-va  haiiidara  u'"^[i/sd]c[s]e  •  ^    K^^sta  ttu       da 

yadii-kaseit  udgrhnlyat  athava    anyesam  uddesayet  Yatra    tam  dharmam 

birasidi    pajsamaviya  sa  disa  hama  harri[29  ?>i]tsa    gyasta      hvaiiida 
prakasayanti      pujaiiiya        sa    disa   bhavet  saha  devasya    manusj'asya 

ysama-^aiiidai-na   vaiiinaviya  hvaraiiicina  tvamdana     tsunai      "Cittya 
prtkivi-lokena  vandaniya         daksinena       vanditum       earitavya    Caityasya 

manamda     ttye      disa     pajsam     tcerai  •     Cu    tti    bisivrrasa       o-va 
yatha         tasyah    disayah      puja        kartavya       Ye      te      kulaputrfih      atha-va 

bisi"ivrrasaina    ci    dadrrama    sutra     dijsadi         vasidi         paraiiimidi 
knladuhitarah      ye      tadrsam       sutram  dharayanti    vacayanti     paryavapnuvanti 

tti  •  ^     i'^parabhutta     hamari      ^ira      hada     parabhiitta     hamari     Tta 
te  pai-ibhiitah         bhavanti     sadhu       eva         paribhutab      bhavaati    Evam 

ci        hara     kidna 

kasya  arthasya   krtena 

[30  fti]    Ttyamna    satvamna    padamjsyamna    ysaiiithva    didrrama 
Tesam         sattvaBam  atitanam  janmasu  tadrsi 

karmaya  tcammna  drrayva  ava"yva  ysaiiitba     nasafiaye        ttye  sutra 
karmata        yaya  trisu        apayesu      janma  prapayitavyam-eva  tasya  sutrasya 

prrabhava-na   tti    karma    harbi^a  •  ^    "ijari  *     thyau     bi&i-pirmattama 
prabhavena       tani  karmani       sarvani       hlyante    sigbram       visva-paramam 

ca  vistarena  samprakasayet.  [3Iaj;  2Iuller,p.  33,  l.  14-7^.  34,  /.  8,  are  not  trandatecl  in 
our  manuscript?^  Api  tu  khalu  punah  Sulibute  yatxa  prtbivl-pradesa  idam  sutram 
prakasayisyate  pujaniyab  sa  prtbivi-pradeso  bhavisyati  sa-deva-manus-asurasya 
lokas\'a  vandaniyah  pradaksiniyas  ca  sa  prthivi-pradeso  bhavisyati  caitya-bhiitah  sa 
prthivi-pradeso  bhavisyati.  (16.)  Api  tu  ye  te  Subhute  kulaputra  va  kuladuhitaro 
v«eman  evariirupan  siLtrantan  udgrahisyanti  dharayisyanti  vacayisyanti  paryavap- 
syanti  yonisas  ca  manasi  karisyanti  parebhyas  ca  vistarena  samprakasayisyanti  te 
paribbuta  bhavisyauti  suparibhutas  ca  bhavisyanti.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yani  ca 
tesam  Subhute  sattvanam  paurvajanmikriny  asubhani  karmani  krtany  apaya- 
samvartaniyani  drsta  eva  dharme  paribhutataya  tani  paurvajanmikany  asubhani 
karmani  ksapayisyanti  buddha-bodhim  e^anuprapsyanti.    Abhijanamy  aharh  Subhute 

1  Read  anamkhista. 

2  Part  of  the  *  and  the  whole  e  are  legible  ;  there  is  room  only  for  two  syllables ; 
after  uyscMe  we  must  probably  insert  budarii  puninai,  &c.,  as  in  11.  2,  3. 

"   Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction.  *  Read j^yar?'. 


3 


264  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

baysusta     bvari  •       Byata    yani    Su^'^'bhu'ya    padaiiijsyamna    badamna 
bodhim     bodhante        Smrtim    kurve       Subhute  atitanam  kalanam 

anariikhistaiia  kalpaiiina  Dipariikara  gya[30  Ji]sta    Imysii     pirmattaiiiina 
asamkhyeyannm  kalpanam  Dipamkarasya       yajatasya    bhagavatah        parena 

tcahaura-hasta-kula-naysa-sa-ysara         gyasta      baysa  •  ^       "cu    harbisa 
eatur-asiti-koti-niyuta-sata-sahasrani  yaja-tan     bhagavatah        ye         sarve 

muhu-jsa   arahya      u      ni    virahya  •     Cti  va  tti   ida    u"istamajsi  bada 
mayit        rimdhitah.  tatha  na    viradhitah       Ye  vai    te    santi       uttamam     kalam 

ustamauysye    pamcasai     cu  tva  Vajrrachedaka-sui^tra     va^jdi        o 
uttamfiyam      pancasatj'am    ye    tat       Yajracehedika-sutram       vficaj-anti     tatha 

paridi-pidi     dijsadi     bunaspyau-jsai     pajsama     3-anT- 
likhapayanti  dharayanti    dhupaih-[?]  asya         pujam       kurva- 

[ol  fti]  di      u  sail    salo    ustamata   pujii    pajsam  ^   yani*    ttye 

nti  [yah-]ca  ekam  slokam      antasah      pujam      pujam       kuryat  tasya 

bisivrrasai    punP^nai      bambisai     brrCi    bi   sataiiina       sa       ysararima 
kulaputrasyapunyamayah  samuhah-asya  jiurvahapi  satatamam  nunam  sahasratamam 

sli        kulana        sa     harhkhi«^"iysa-masa  usmaiiiiia-masi  na-ni  kaste :  ^ 
nunam  kotitamam  nunam      samkhyfi-matram       upanisad-mfitram     na    ksamate 

Tti     va      asiri      Subbuta    gyaivsta         baysii         tta     hve      khu     va 
Atha    A'ai    acaryah.      Subhutih      yajatam    bhagavantam  evam  avocat  katham    vai 

atite  'dhvanj'  asamkhyeyaih  kalpair  asamkhyeyatarair  Dipamkarasya  tathagatasy^ 
arhatah  samyak-sambnddhasya  parena  paratarena  caturasiti-buddha-koti-ni^-uta- 
sata-sahasrany  abhuvan  ye  may#aragita  aragya  na  viragitah.  Yac  ca  maya  Subhute 
te  bnddha  bhagavanta  aragita  aragya  na  viragita  yac  ca  paicime  kale  pascime 
samaj'e  pascimayfim  paficasatyraii  saddharma-vipralopa-kale  vartamana  iman  evaiii- 
rupan  sutrantan  udgrahisyanti  dhfirayisyanti  vacayisyanti  paryavapsyanti  parebhyas 
ca  vistarena  samprakasayisyanti  asya  khalu  punah  Subhute  punya-skandhasy^antikad 
asau  paurvakah  punj'a-skandhah  satatamim  api  kalarii  n#6paiti  sahasratamlm  api 
sata-sahasratamim  api  kotitamim  api  kotisatataniim  api  kotisatasahasratamim  api 
kotiniyutasatasahasratamim  api  samkhyam  api  kalam  api  gananani  apj-  upamam 
apy  upanisadam  api  j'avad  aupamyam  api  na  ksamate.  \Tlie  follov:lng  lines,  Max 
Miiner,p.2>?),U.\2-17,arenoi4raii-'iIate(J  in  our  manusci  i]]t.'\  (17.)  Atha  khalv  ayusman 
Subhutir  bhagavantam  etad  avocat,  kathaiii  bhagavan  bodhisattva-yana-saiii])rasthi- 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

"  Here  the  same  loanword  is  used,  side  by  side,  in  an  older  and  a  later  form. 

^  Full  stop  in  the  form  of  double  dot  or  visarga. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  26S 

midariina    gyasta      ba^-sa      baudhisatviiyariini  luaru    [.'31  i']  inahayfina 
midhvah        yajata     bhagavan     bodhisattvayanikena       iha  maliriyane 

aysmti  biysarhjariiiia  Gyasta  baysi  tta      live    mara    Subhuva 

oittam    pragrabltavj'am    Yajatah   bhagavan-asya     evain    avocat     iha        Subhute 

baudhisa"tva  masta  baysnmila^  vuysai-na  ttatta  aysmti        ujjevfina 
bodhisattvena    mahata         bodhi-  sattvena       evam     cittam     utjmdayitavyam 

bisii  satva  abarii"na  paranirvayamila  •  Ni  hadi  kamuja  satva^ 
visve   sattvah    anupadhisese    pariiiirvapayitav}'ali       Na      eva         kascit      sattvah 

paranii-vaiia         '"^'hama  •     Tta        ci  ^        harit     kina  •     Ci     Subbuva 
paiinirvapayitavjrah       bbavet       Evam      kasya    arthasya  krtena    Yadi      Snbhute 

baudhisatva  satvasamna  hamati 
bodhisattvasya    sattvasamjna     bhavet 

[32  a^]  ni    sa    baudbisatva      bvaiiai  0        atmasariina     ti-va 

na    sah    bodhisattvah      vaktavyah     Athavii      atmasamjiia     atha-va 

jivasamiia      o      pudgalasariiua    "hamati    ni    si    baudliisatva      bvaiiai 
jlvasariijna     atha      pudgalasariijna         bhavet     na    sah    bodhisattvah     vaktavyah 

Tta  ci  hara  kina  Nistii  si  dbarmii  "'kamuja  baudbisatvayariifia 
Tat  kasya  arthasya  krtena  Na-asti  sah   dharmah       kascit  bodhisattvayane 

liamjsedai        aya  •     Asta    nai    si      Siibbtiva    ivfjl^ai'ma     cu     gyasta 
samp)i'asthitah       syat  Asti       nu     sah       Subhute        dharmah       yah     yajatena 

baysa-na  Dipaiiikara  gyasta  baysa  inaka  bisii-pirmatta  [32  5']  ma 
bbagavata  Dipaihkarasya  yajatasya  bhagavatah  antikat    visva-paramam 

baystista     busta     aya     Ttye    bvaye    bvanai      asiri      Subhuta    gyasta 
bodhim       buddhah    syat    Tasmin      ukte       vacane     acaryah     Subhutih    yajatam 

tena  sthatavj^ain  katham  pratipattavyam  kathaiii  cittam  pragrahita\'3'am.  Bhagavan 
aha,  iha  Subhute  bodhisattva-yana-samprasthiten#aivam  cittam  utpadayitavyaiir, 
sarve  sattva  may*anupadhisese  nirvana-dhatau  iDarinirvapayitavyah.  Evaiir  ca 
sattvan  parinirvapya  na  kascit  sattvah  parinirvapito  bhavati.  Tat  kasya  hetoh. 
Saeet  Subhute  bodhisattvasya  sattvasamjna  pravarteta  na  sa  bodhisattva  iti  vakta- 
vyah. Jiva-saihjria  va  yavat  pudgala-samjna  va  pra^'arteta  na  sa  bodhisattva  iti 
vaktavyah.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  N^asti  Subhute  sa  kascid  dharmo  yo  bodhisattva-yana- 
samprasthito  nama.  Tat  kirir  manyase  Subhute  asti  sa  kascid  dharmo  yas  tathu- 
gatena  Dipariikarasya  tathagatas3'#antikad  anuttavam  samyak-sambodhim  abhi- 
sambuddhah.     Evam  ukta  ayusman  Subhutir  bhagavantam  etad  avocat,  yath^^ahaiii 

^   Read  da^xuiJ/ua.  ' 

^  There  is  a  small  meaningless  hook  to  the  right  of  satva. 

^  The  distinguishing  line  to  the  left  of  the  aksara  i.-i  half  effaced. 


266  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

baysa  •  ^      "tta     hve       sa      niatil  madamna  gyasta    baysa  kammuja 
bhagavantam  evam  avocat  nunam  na-asti    midhvah      yajata    bhagavan     kaseit 

sa    dharma    cu     gyasta  baysa-"ina  bi^a-pirmattama  -baysu^ta    busta 
sah     dharmah    yah    yajatena    bhagavata       visva-paramam  bodhim     buddhah 

aya    Ttye    hvaye  hvanai  o-yasta   ba^'^ysa      a^iri     Subhuta    tta     live 
syat  Tasmin      ukte      vacane    yajatah   bhagavan  ucaryam  Subhutim  evam  avoeat 

ttatta   si     hara    Subhuta  nista  kammuja  si    dharma  cu 
evam    sah  arthah     Subhute    na-asti       kaseit       sah  dharmah  yah 

[33  a^]    gyasta     bays-na     Dipamkara   gyasta     baysa-na     baysusta 
yajatena    bhagavata     Dipamkarat     yajatat     bhagavatah       bodhim 

busta     aya       Ci     Subbtiva   "kamuja    si     dharma     vya      cu     gyasta 
buddhah   syat       Sacet     Subhute         kaseit      sah    dharmah  bhavet    yah    yajatena 

baysa-na    baysusta     busta      vya     ni   muhu  "ivyirasa       hama       thu 
bhagavata       bodhim      buddhah   bhavet    na     mam    vyfikarisyat    bhavisyasi    tvam 

mariava  ustamajsl  badii  SakA-amuna  nama  gva«i"'sta  baysa*  Ttana 
manavaka     uttamam    kalam   Sfikj'amunih     nama         yajatah      bhagavan      Tena 

CU  ttusatta  si  Iwysustii  Na  ra  vara  hatha  na  drrumja[3o  ?)i]Ttrariima 
yat  tucchata    sa      bodhih       Na  jata  tatra  satyam   na         mrsa  Evam 

mamiiariida  Subhuva    ci        ja       hve      aya      ciie      mista  ttararhdara 
upamam         Subhute    sacet  [kasjcit  purusah  syat  yat-asya  mahan         kayah 

aya  Subhu"ti  tta  hve  si  midamna  •  ^  gyasta  baysa  ttaraiiidara 
syfit  Subhutih-asya  evam  avoeat  sah       midhvah         yajata    bhagavan         kayah 

bhagavan  bhagavato  bhasitasy^avtham  ajnufimi  n#asti  sa  bhagavan  kascid  dharmo 
yas  tathagatena  Dijaamkaras^'a  tathagatasy^arhatah  samyak-sambuddhasy«antikad 
anuttaram  samyak-sambodhim  abhisambaddhah.  Evam  ukte  1)hao'avan  ayusmantam 
Subhutim  etad  avocat,  evam  etat  Subhute  evam  etat ;  n«asti  Subhute  sa  kascid 
dharmo  yas  tathagatena  Dlpaiiikarasya  tathagatasy^^arliatah  samyalv-sarhbuddhasy* 
antikad  anuttaram  samyak-sambodhim  abhisarhbuddhah.  Sacet  punah  Subhute 
kascid  dhavmas  tathagaten^^abhisariibuddho  'bhavisyat  na  mam  Dipaihkaras  tatha- 
gato  vyakarisyad,  bhavisyasi  t\'aiii  manav^anagate  'dhvani  Sakyamunir  nama 
tathagato,  'rhan  samyak-sambuddha  iti.  [Max  MiMer,  p.  36,  /.  19-jj.  37,  I.  2,  are 
not  translated  in  onr  wamificrqit?^  Tat  kasya  hetos.  Tathagata  iti  Subhute  bhuta- 
tathataya  etad  adhivacanam.  Tathagata  iti  Subhute  anutpada-dharmataya  etad 
adhivacanam.  Tathagata  iti  Subhute  dharm^oechedasy^aitad  adhivacanam.  Tatha- 
gata iti  Subhute  atyant-anutpannasy«aitad  adhivacanam.  \Jilax  Iliiller,  p.  37, 
II.  7-11,  nat  in  onr  iiianvscrijd.']    Yas  ca  Subhute  tathagatena  dharmo  'bhisambuddho 

■^   Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 


to 


IN  THE  OLD    KHOTANESE   VERSION  267 

attararhdara    gyasta   bai"ysa-na    hvata*     Tta      cue      saitta    Subhuta 
akayah  yajatena      bhagavata      bhasitah    Evam  kim-te    bhasate     Subhute 

a^ta  nai    si    dharmii    cu     gyasta    bays-na   i'^bif^a-pirmattama  baysti^ta 
asti     nu    sah   dharmah    yah    yajatena  bhagavata        visva-paramam  bodhim 

busta    aya       Subhuti       tta      live     ni  midaiiina 
bnddhah  syiit  Subhutih-asya  evam  avocat    na     mldhvah 

[34  fti]  gyasta    baysa      nista  kammuja  i^    dharma    en    baysumiia 
yajata    bhagavan   na-asti       kascifc       sah    dharmah    yah       bodhi- 

vuysai  nama  aya  "Cu  vina  uysaiiine  vina  satva  vina  pudgalii  bisa 
sattvah    nnma    syat    Yah    Aana     atmanam     vina    sattvam    vina    pudgalam     visve 

hara  ttu  nijsada  "ivyachi  si  buddhaksitra  vyuba  niispliane 
arthah  tad    vyakhyfitam    adhimncyeta  sah    buddhaksetranam    vyuham  nispadayet 

si  na  baysuiia  vCiysai  hvai'^'nai  Cu  bisii  hara  vina  uysamiae 
sah     na        bodhi-        sattvali    vaktavyah     Yah    visve     arthah      vina      atmanam 

vyachi         si       tvaharai      bandhisatva    liva  [3-4  i^]  Tta     ciie     saitta 
adhimncyeta     sah     tathagatena     bodhisattvah    uktah  Tat  kim-te  bhusate 

Subhtiva     byaudi     ni      gyasta         baysa  g^stiji         tcaiinaiiiiia  • 

Subhute       praptani     nu      j'^ajatasya    bhagavatah     mamsamaj-ani        caksuiiisi 

Su"bhuvi       tta      live         byaudai        gyasta        baysa  gustaija 

Subhutih-asya    evam    avocat    praptani-asya    yajatasya    bhagavatah    mamsamayani 

desito  va  tatra  na  satyarii  na  mrsa.  \_3Iaa'  Miiller, p.  37,  U.  12-14,  not  hi  our  manu- 
6-ci'ijjt.^  Tadyath^api  nama  Subhute  puruso  bhaved  upetakayo  mahakayah.  Ayusman 
Subliiitir  aha,  yo  'sau  bbagavams  tathagatena  puruso  bhasita  upetakaj'o  mahakiiya 
iti  akayah  sa  bhagavams  tathagatena  bhasitah.  Ten«uc}'ata  upetakayo  mahakaya 
iti.  Bhagavan  aha,  evam  etat  Subhiite.  Yo  bodhisattva  evam  vaded,  ahaiii  sattvaa 
parinirvapayisyam^iti  na  sa  bodhisattva  iti  vaktavyah.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Asti 
Subhute  sa  kascid  dharmo  yo  bodhisattvo  nama.  Subhutir  aha,  no  hrfdam  bhagavan, 
n^asti  sa  kascid  dharmo  yo  bodhisattvo  nama.  Bhagavan  aha,  sattvah  sattva  iti 
Subhute  asattvas  te  tathagatena  bhiisitas  ten^ocyante  sattva  iti.  Tasmat  tathagato 
bhasate,  niratmanah  sarva-dharma  niijlva  nisposa  nispudgalah  sarva-dharma  iti. 
Yah  Subhiite  bodhisattva  evaiii  vaded,  aharii  ksetra-vyuhan  nispadayisyam#iti  sa 
vitatham  vadet.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Ksetra-vyuha  ksetra-vyuha  iti  Subhute  avyiihas 
te  tathagatena  bhasitah.  Ten#6cyante  ksetra-vyiiha  iti.  Yah  Subhiite  bodhisattvo 
niratmano  dharma  niratmano  dharma  ity  adhimucyate  sa  tathagaten#arhata  samyak- 
sambuddhena  bodhisattvo  mahasattva  ity  akhyatah.  (18.)  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kim 
manyase  Subhute  samvidyate  tathagatasya  mamsa-eaksuh.  Subhiitir  aha,  evam 
etad  bhagavan  samvidyate  tathagatasya  mamsa-caksuh.     Bhagavan  aba,  tat  kim 


268  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

tcaimarima  •      Tti    va    gya"ista      baysa        asirl      Subhtita     tta      live 
caksumsi  Atha  vai      yajatah     bhagavan    ricfiryam    Subhutim    evam  avocat 

byaudi    gyastii       baysa      gyastumi'^iia  tcaimaiiina   ^  Gyasta     baysa 
praptani  yajatasya  bhagavatah         divyani  caksumsi        Yajatam  bhagavaatam 

a^iri      Subhtita    tta     hve        byaudai        gyastii      ba- 
acaryah     Subhutih    evam  avocat   praptani-asya  yajatasya  bhaga- 

[35  a']  ysa  gyastuiiina  tcaimamnii  •    Tti  va  gyastii     baysa      asiri 
vatah      divyani         caksiimsi         Atha  vai  yajatah  bhagavan  acaryam 

Subhuta      tta      hve        "byaudai       gyasta         baysa  datija, 

Subhutim     evam     avocat     praptani-sya      yajatasya     bhagavatah     dharmamayani 

tcaiinaiiiua  •      Asiri    Subhuta    tta     hve    "ibyaudai    gyasta       bfiysii 
caksumsi         Acaryah    Subhutih  evam  avocat  praptfini-asya  yajatasya  bhagavatah 

datijii         tcaiiTiamiia  •     Tti    va    asiri    i'^Subhuta  gyasta       baysii 
dharmaniayrmi       caksumsi         Atha   vai  uearyah    Suljhutih    y;ijutam  bhagavantam 

tta      hve      Ida     gyastaiii       baysaili       hajvattetijii  [35  b^]  tcaiiriariiua 
evam    avocat    santi    yajatanam    bhagavatam      prajnamayani  caksiiriisi 

Gyasta  baysii  asiri  SubhCita  tta  hve  byaude  gyasta  baysii  •  ^ 
lajatah  bhagavan  acaryam   Subhutim  evam  avocat  praptam  yajatasya  bhagavatah 

"hajvattetinai    tcema  -      Tti     va      asiri     Subhuta    gyasta        bavsii 
prajiiamayam       caksnh       Atha    vai    ficriryah    Subhutih     yajatam    bhagavantam 

tta    i"hve    Ida      gyasta       baysarir  datijii        tcemamriii  •     Gyasta 

evam  avocat  santi  yajatanam  bhagavatam  dharmamayani    caksuriisi  Yajatah 

bjiysii        il'^'siri       Subhuta      tta        live        Ida      gyastiirii       baysaiii 
bhagavan     acaryam      Subhiitim     evam     avocat      santi     yajatanam     bhagavatam 

datijii        tcemamiiia  •     Tti 
dharmamayani     caksumsi         Atha 

manyase  Snbhute  samvidyate  tathagatusya  divyam  caksuh.  Subhutir  fiha,  evam 
etad  bhagavan  samvidyate  tathagatasj'a  divyarii  caksuh.  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kim 
manyase  Subhute  saiiividyate  tathagatasya  prajna-caksuh.  Subhutir  aha,  evam 
etad  bhagavan  samvidyate  tathagatasya  prajfia-caksuh.  Bliagavan  aba,  tat  kim 
manyase  Subhute  samvidj^ate  tathagatasya  dharma-caksuh.  Subhutir  aha,  evam 
etad  bhagavan  samvidyate  tathagatasya  dharma-caksuh.  Bhagavan  aha,  tat  kim 
manyase  Subhiite  samvidj'ate  tathagatasya  buddha-caksuh.  Subhiitir  aha,  evam 
etad  bhaga\'an  saiiividyate  tathagatasya  buddha-ealfsuh.  [_T/ierr  is  nolMng  corre- 
sjion/Hiirj   to   j)[ax  Bfiiller,  p.  39,  //.  3-13,  in   our  mami-tcrij)/.'^     Tat    kim  manyase 

^  Read  dsin  Subhuta  gyastii  t>ays&  tta  live. 
^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEKSION  269 

[36ai]  va    gyasta      baysa        asiri      Subhuva^     tta      hve      Ida 
vai     yajatah    bhagavan    acaryam     Subhutim      evam    avocat     santi 

gyastarh    baysam    baysumna  tcaiiimamnammana  ^  idii  asirya  Subhuta 
yajatanam  bbagavatam  bauddhani  caksumsi  santi    acarya    Subhute 

gyastarh      baysam     baysumna  tcai'iimaiiina  •     Tti   va  gyasta     baysa 
yajatanam  bhagavatam    bauddhani         caksumsi  Atha  vai  yajatah  bhagavan 

a^iri        Subhuta         guste  u     tta      pastai        i'^ci    tva    trsahasrya 

acarjram     Subhiitim    amantrayata  atha  evam  avadat-asya    yah    tam     trisahasryah 

mahasahasrya     lovadata    haudyau  ramnyau-jsa  liam[36  i'Jbira    hauram 
mahasahasryah    lokadhatum  saptabhih       ratnaili  sampuiya.  danam 

liidi     cariida     si      bisivrrasai         o         bislvrrassaina      puna       kilsala 
dadati    klyanti     sah      kulaputrah     atha-va         kuladuhita         punyani     kusalasya 

"mula    ysyamiie      A^iri       Subhuta    tta      hve     bihi    phara    midarima 
mulani      janayet        Acaryah      Snbhutih    evam    avocat     ati     bahum      midhvah 

gyasta    "ibaysa       puiaa        kusala      mulaiii    haskama   ysyaiiine  •    Cu 
yajata     bhagavan    punyanam    kusalasya    mulanam    skandham      janayet         Kim 

vatcil  hamda.i'^rai  bisivrrasai  cu  tva  Vajrrachedaka-sutril,  ustamata 
punah  anugrahah-asya  kulaputrasya  yah  tasmin    Vajracchedika-siitve        antasah 

sau      tcurapati      gab  a 
ekam  catuspadikam  gatham 

[37  ai]  pM       sfyiya         dijsati       vasiya       ^buspyau-jsai      pajsam 
likhet  udgrhniyat     dharayet      vacayet  dhupaih-asya  pujam 

yani  •    ttye    bisivrra^^saina  budara  puiiinai  hariibisa  hama  •  Satarima 
kuryat    tasyah        kuladuhituh      bahutarah    punya-     samuhah  bhavet    Satatamam 

6a        ysaramna        sa      i"u^marrina-masi  ha  ni  kasta  •       Tti     gyasta 
nunam  sahasiatamam    nunam    upanisad-matram     a     na  ksamate      Atha     yajatah 

Subhute  yah  kascit  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita  v«emam  trisahasra-mahasahasram 
lokadhatum  sapta-ratna-paripurnam  krtva  tathagatebhyo  'ihadbhyah  samyak-saiii- 
buddhebhyo  danam  dadyat  api  nu  sa  kulaputro  va  kuladuhita  va  tato  Qidanam  bahu 
punj^a-skandham  prasunuyat.  Subhutir  aha,  bahu  bhagavan  bahu  sugata.  \_T/iere 
is  nothing  in  the  text  to  correspond  to  Max  Miiller,  p.  40,  I.  2-p.  43,  I.  4.]  Yas  ca 
kulaputro  va  kuladuhita  v^etah  prajnaparamitaya  dharma-paryayad  antasas  catus- 
padikam api  gatham  udgrhya  parebhyo  desayed  asya  Subhute  punya-skandhasy#asau 
paurvakah  punya-skandhah  satatamlm  api  kalarii  n«6paiti  yavad  upanisadam  api  na 

^  Read  SubhUva.     The  text  is  here  defective.     There  ought  to  be  a  question  by 
Subhuti  and  a  reply  by  the  Buddha,  as  in  the  preceding  clauses. 

2  Read  tcaimamna.  ^  Read  hunaspyau,  see  30  1/^ . 

*  Read  bisivrrasai  ova  bislvrrdsaiha. 


270  VAJRACCHEDIKl 

bavs;i  asiri       Subhuta     tta     Mive     tta     live  ^       sa       tta       eve 

bhagavan     iicaryam     Subhutim    evam    avocat    evani  avocat   nunam  evam    kim-te 

sai  2     asarya  Subhuta   tta        ci       hiirii      kidna        Ni       si    Subhuta 
bhasate    ucarya     Subhute    evam    kasya  arthasya    krtena       Nanu     sah    Subhute 

sa    [37  W]    laksanija     pval ye-jsa    gyasta       baysa         dyaiiina      iiai  • 
nunam  laksanamayya      sampada        yajatah      bhagavan      drastavyah     jatu 

Asiri     Subhuta     tta      bve     iina    midamna  gyasta     baysa     laksanija 
Aearyah     Subhutih    evam    avocat    na        midhvah       yajata    bhagavan     laksana- 

pyalye-jsa    gyasta      baysa       dyamiia       ni      i"Ciya      gyasta      baysa 
sampada      yajatah     bhagavan    drastavyah    jatu         Sacet        yajata      bhagavan 

laksaniji   pyalye-jsa    gyasta      baysa  vya         rri     sa    i'^'cakrravartta 

laksana-        sampada       yajatah    bhagavan    abhavisyat    rrja,    sah         cakravarti 

baysa       hamiya   ttana  cadrravarta  ^  rruiiida  laksana-iji  pyalye- 
bhagavan  abhavisyat    tena     eakravartinah      rajnah        laksana-      sampada 

[38  ai]  jsa  *  baysa   dyamna  •      Tti  gyasta     baysa    tta  gaha     live  • 
bhagavan  drastavyah       Atha  yajatah  bhagavan  te   gathe  abhasata 

Cu  muliu  ruvane  °     deda    cu    "ma    salayau-jsa    maiiare 
Ye     mam       rupena     pasyanti  ye    mam        ghosaih        manyante 

kura     cedaiiima    ttyarii      tta    muliu  herstaya  na    deda 
mithyfi     cintanam        tesam         te        mam       sarvada     na  pasyanti 

ksamate.  [T//ere  is  nothing  to  correspond  to  Max  Iluller,  /lara.  25,  ;j.  42,  II.  8-16.] 
(26»)  Tat  kim  manyase  Subhute  laksana-sampada  tathagato  drastavyah.  Subhutir 
aha,  no  h«idam  bhagavan.  Yath«aham  bhagavato  bhasitasy#artham  ajanami  na 
laksana-sampada  tathagato  drastavyah.  Bhagavan  aha,  sadhu  sadhu  Subhute 
evam  etat  Subhute  evam  etad  yatha  vadasi.  Na  laksana-sampada  tathagato  drasta- 
vyah. Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Sacet  punah  Subhute  laksana-sarfapada  tathagato  drastavyo 
'bhavisyad  rajVapi  cakravarti  tathagato  'bhavisyat.  Tasman  na  laksana-sampada 
tathagato  drastavyah.  Ayusman  Subhutir  bhagavantam  etad  avocat,  yath^ahaih 
bhagavato  bhasitasy^artham  ajanami  na  laksana-sampada  tathagato  drastavyah. 
Atha  khalu  bhagavams  tasyaih  velayam  ime  gathe  abhasata, 

Ye  maiii  rupena  c^adraksur  ye  maiii  ghosena  c#unvaguh  1 
mithya-prahana-prasrtii  na  mam  draksvanti  te  janah  II  1  II 


''  Cancel  the  second  iia  lire.  -   Read  saitfa.  ^  Read  cakrra-. 

*  Fol.  38,  which  is  in  a  different  hand,  has  been  written  with  less  care  than 
the  rest. 

°  Read  rHva-na. 


IN   THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEESION  271 

ii'dharmahe-jsa    baysa        dyamna    dfitidavlne  ^  taraiiidara  ttyaiima 
dharraataya    bhagavantah  drastavj'ilh  dharmamayah        kayali  tesam 

du^  i'^'sa    busta    darmaha  rasta  naiye  kara  tcarariina    Ijuste  ii 
sah    buddliah  dhaiinata      rju       na-ca     kila       ujiayena       boddhum 

Tta     eve      setta  Subhuva^[38  6i]cu   tta  hvaHiye      se        baysa       sta 
Tat   kim-te  bhasate    Subhute  j'a  evam     vadet     nunam  bbag-avan  sthitah 

auva  hista   au-va  biche  au-va  biclie  *  "au    jsave     si  mam  livaiiamme 
atha-va  sidati  atha-va  sayita  atha-va  sa3'Tfca     atha  gacchati  sah  me        bhusifcasya 

artha      baute     Cu    liada     hera     Subhuva     baysii     "^tathagata    hvide 
artham    bodhate    Kah      eva      artliah      Subhute    Ijhagavfin     tathagatah       ucyate 

auskaujsi  cu   na  haraete  Jada    hada     sta      ktira        i^nasare      avyasta 
sasA'atam    yat   na     sameti    Jadah      eva     santah   mithya       grhnanti      udgrhltah 

sa  dharma  mukliau-jsa  jadau-prahajanau-jsa  Tta    ce       hera 
sah  dharmah      murkhaih  jada-prthag-jaBaih         Tat  kasya  arthasya 

[39  ai]    kina    Cu    si      i     Subhtita   cu     tta    hvaili  baysa-na  Ijvata 
krtena    Yah  sah  syat    Subhute    yah  evam    vadet    bhagavata    ukta 

uysaiiinai  vira   dyam"ma    adyamma    sa    gyasta    baysa-na    hvata    ttina 
atmanam     upari       drstih  adrstih         sa    yajatena    bhagavata     ukta       tena 

Dharmato  buddho  drastavyo  dharmakaya  hi  nayakah  I 
dharmata  ca  na  {or  c^asya)  vijneya  na  sa  sakya  vijanitum  II  2  II 

[There  is  nothing  to  correspond  to  Max  Milller,para.  27  and  28,^.  43,  /.  10-p.  44,  L  6.] 
(29.)  Api  tu  khalu  punah  Subhute  yah  kascid  evam  vadet,  tathagato  gaechati 
v<^agacchati  va  tisthati  va  nisidati  va  sayyam  va  kalpayati  na  me  Subhute  bhasi- 
tasy«artham  ajanati.  Tat  kasya  betoh.  Tathagata  iti  Subhuta  ucyate  na  kvacid 
gato  na  kutascid  agatah.  Ten^ocyate  tathagato  'rhan  samyak-sambuddha  iti. 
[There  is  nothing  in  the  text  to  correspond  to  nearly  the  whole  of  para.  30  in  Max 
Muller,  p.  44,  /.  12-j'j.  45,  I.  5.]  (30.)  Bhagavan  aha,  pinda-grahas  c#aiva  Subhute 
avyavaharo  'nabhilapyah.  Na  sa  dharmo  n#udharmah.  Sa  ca  bala-prthag-janair 
udgrhltah.  (31.)  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Yo  hi  kascit  Subhuta  evam  vaded,  atmadrstis 
tatbagatena  bhasita  sattvadrstir  jlvadrstih  pudgaladrstis  tathagatena  bhasita,  api 
nu  sa  Subhute  samyag  vadamano  vadet.  Subhtltir  aha,  no  hi^idam  bhagavan,  no 
beldam  sugata,  na  samyag  vadamano  vadet.     Tat    kasya  hetoh.     Ya  sa  bhagavann 


■^  Read  ddtmai  or  damnai. 

2  After  tiydkna  comes  a  syllable  which  looks  like  du  (see  42  5*"),  but  is  probably 
a  cancelled  du.  ...  ^  ^^^^  SiMuva. 

*  Au-vd  biche  has  been  written  twice  by  mistake. 


272  VAJKACCHEDIKA 

cu  nistuja  uysamna  i"dyamma  ttina  gyasta   baysa-na  hvata    avyasta 
yat    nastika     atmanam         drstih         tena    yajatena  bhagavata    uktam    udgrhitah 

dharma  jadyau  prahu^'^janau-jsa  hvata  Kamaiiina  di^ana  ttti  stitra 
dharmah      jadaih  prthagjanaih  uktah         Yasyam       disayam    tat    sutram 

bira^idi     ttatta  ha  ma[39  ?>i]namna    sastara    ttara    asti      u       pirmat- 
jjrakasayanti    evam      a  mananiyah.  sasta        tatra     aste    tatha       para- 

taihma  hamastariima  ^    pisai  •     Tt3'e     hvaye    hvai^nai     asiri     Subhuta 
mah  sattamah  guruh       Tasmin       nkte         vacane     acriryah    Subhutih 

gyasta       Imysa  tta      hve        s;l       cu   nariima  gyasta  baj^sa  •  ^   ii^si 

yajatam  bhagavantam  evam  avocat  ntinam  kah      nama       yajata     bhagavan     sah 

da  u  khvai  nama      dijsi      Gyasta         baysi  tta 

dharmah  tatha    katham-vai-asya     nama    dharaye      Yajatah    bhagavan-asya   evam 

hve     prrajnaparamma  naiii^'^ma  Subhuta    hi       data        [tta]ttai    nama 
avocat       prajiiaparamita  nama         Subhute     sah    dharmah    evam-asya    nama 

dijsa  :  Cu  hadi  prrajiiaparama  si    gyasta 
dharaya    Ya      eva      prajnaparamita     sa   yajatena 

[40  fti]  Ixivsa-na   aparamma    hvata  •     Tta     cue      saitta    Subhuta 
bhagavata       aparamita  iikta  Tat   kim-te     bhasate      Subhute 

asta   nai    si        da        ku-jsa    "marii     bvama    patata   Dvaradiradir^au^ 
asti     nu    sah  dharmah      yatah  me         juanam    utthitam      Dvatrimsadbhih 

mahapurasalaksanyau-jsa     gyasta    bai"ysa     dyamfia       Subhiivi        tta 
mahapurusa-laksanaih  yajatah  bhagavan  drastavyah  Subhutih-asya    evam 

hve  na  midamna  gyasta    baysa       aguna     gyasta  '"^baysa-na   hvata* 
avocat  na     midhvah     yajata  bhagavan  alaksanani  yajatena   bhagavata    bhasitani 

Gyasta  baysl  tta      hve      ttatta    Subhuta     baudhisatvayaiiiiia 

Yajatah    bhagavan-a<ya    evam    avocat      evam        Subhute  bodhisattvayane 

atmadrstis  tathagatena  bhasita  adrstih  su  tathagatena  bhasita.  Ten^ucyate 
atmadrstir  iti.  \T/ie  ensuing  passage  is  a  repeiitioti  of  fol.  22a'-22i".  There  is 
notJiing  eorres[ioiuVi,iig  In  the  Sanskrit  (!«;/.]  Bhagavan  aha,  evaiia  hi  Subhute 
bodhisattva-yana-samprasthitena  sarva-dharma  jiiatavya  drastavya  adhimoktavyah. 
Tatha  ca  jfiatavya  drastavya  adhimoktavya  yatha  na  dharma-samjnayam  api 
pratyupatisthen  n^adharma-samjnayam.  Tat  kasya  hetoh.  Dharma-samjna 
dharma-saihjn#eti  Subhute  asamjn^aisa  tathagatena  bhasita.      Ten#Ocyate  dharma- 

^  Read  hustainii. 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunetion  at  end  of  line.  ^  Rgj^^i  drdradirsau. 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  273 

liajsam[40  ?)i]dai-na  baysumiia  vuysai-na  harbi^a  dharma    vyachamiia 

samgacchata  bodhi-  sattvena        sarve  dharmixh  adhimoktavyah. 

khu      dharmasamna      vira     na        pa"rahi«  Cu    va    baudhisatva 

yatha     dharmasamjiiayah.     upari     na     pratyupatisthet        Yo     vai      bodhisattvah 

baysuriina  vuysai  avamata  anaiiikhista  loJ"vadata  haudyau  ranyau-jsa 
bodbi-       sattvah  aprameyan  asamkhyeyan   lokadhatun    saptabhih        ratnaih 

hambiri   hauraiii   hidi  •     cu     si    bisivrrasai   cu    ttye    i'^Vajrrachedakyi 
saihpuiya      danam      dadati    yah   sah    kulaputrah    yah  tasyah    Vajracchedikayah 

prajiiaparamme        da         vira   ustamata   tcahaurapati    ^au     gaha 
prajnaparamitayah  dharmasya  upari     antasah       catuspildikam    ekam  gatham 

[41  ai]    nasati      o  saji         ham[da]ryamna     halai     uysdi^iya 

labhet     atha    udgrhniyat  anyesam  asayam     uddesayet 

si     hadi    ttye       pufiinai       haiiiiibisa      budara       ysyaiiiiie     avamata 
sah      eva     tasya    punyamayam     samuham     bahntaram      prasunuyat    aprameyam 

anaiiikhista    Ttatta  hadi       birasaiiifia       "ikhu    ha    uysnaurana   buhu- 
asamkhyeyam     Evam     eva      prakasayitavyam     yatha     a        sattvanam        bahu- 

mamna    ni    bajaitti    adara    ha    yauari     i^o    garkhusta       na       ttatta 
manah     na     lupyate     adaram     a     kurvanti    atha     samyak  (?)    praptam     evam 

hvidi    biramsaiiifia  n    Tti   va  gyasta     baysa     tti    gaha     live 
ucyate  prakasayitavyam  Atha  vai   yajatah  bhagavan  tah  gathah  avocat 

Khu[41  iijja     oiia    stara     dyari        sivi     brrufiari     hamrrasta 
Yatha-ea         tatra     tarah    drsyante     ratrau      bhasante  samyak 

ci      byti^ta    sarba    urmaysde    "bisa      narabhasa      hamari  ii 
yada    prabhati   udayet       adityah       visvah   punah-aljhasah     bhavanti 

samjn«eti.        (32.)     Yas     ca     khalu     punah     Sabhufce      bodhisattvo      mahasattvo 
'prameyan  asamkhyeyaml  lokadhatun  saptaiatna-paripurnam  krtva  tathagatebhyo 
'rhadbhyah  samyak-sambuddhebhyo  danam  dadyad  yas  ca  kulaputro  va  kuladhuhita 
v^etah    prajila-paramitaya    dharma-paryayad    antasas    catuspadikam    api    gatham 
udgrhya  dharayed  desayed  vacayet  paryavapnuyat  parebhyas  ca  vistarena  sampra- 
kasayed  ayam  eva  tato  nidanam  bahutaram  punyaskandharh  prasunuj^ad  aprameyam 
asamkhyeyam.     Katham  ca  samprakasayet.     Tadyath^akase 
taraka  timiram  dipo  mayavasyaya-budbudam  I 
svapnam  ca  vidyud  abhram  ca  evam  drastavyam  samskrtam  II 
tatha  prakasayet,  ten#6cyate  samprakasayed  iti.     [£itt  our  text  differs  widely  owing 
to  the  fact  that  the  single  verse  of  the  Sanskrit  text  has,  in  our  text,  been  expanded  into 
a  series  of  verses,  each  of  the  topics  brought  together  in  the  Sanskrit  stanza  having  been 

678  T 


274  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

ttii       padi         indri       bvamna     tcema    astamna  anii^ci  • 
tarn  prakaram  indriyam  bodhanlyam   caksnh     prabhrti    anityam 

cI       pana    mi  bvama  rrasta  nija  n'&       ayari  hugvana  ii 

sacet    puratah   rae    bodhih      rjvl      nijah  na  pratibhasante     sujneyah  (?) 

Crramma      hve       cu    iHcaifia    kasS        bi^ufia        ruva   vajsesde 
Yadrsam     pnrusah    yat      caksusi     kaeah    visvavidhani     rupani     pasyati 

ttai-ja  hara      ttatva   na   Ida     dyari    hadi 

evam-asya-ca  arthasj'a  tattvani    na  santi  drsyante    eva 

[42  ai]  kasa    pracaina  ii 
kacasya  pratyayena 

ttu      padi      rtiva    vicitra      bisuiia  saidii        jadamna 

tarn  prakaram  rupani  vicitrani  visvavidhani  pratibhasante  jadebhyah 

"vina   aysmu     gvana     ni    ida     sam    aysmu    kHra     liai"nasa 
vina      eittam  jneyani(?)  na  santi  samam   cittam    mithya     grahah  II 

Crra  maiiinamda  uysnaura    carau    pracaii'^'na     vijsyari 
Yena        sadrsam  sattvah      dipa-  (?)    pratyayena      caranti  (?) 

ttu  padi*^  aysmu-  ina  vasiyaiiina •  ^  [42 Z)i]  dyamma  bvamna  ii 
tam  prakaram    cittat  antikat  drstih      bodhaniya 

Sam     khu    prahagisai  nauhya  baka  burS  asta      u     pitta 
Samam  yatha  bahu    aste    tatha  patati 

tta"tta  •  1  ttarariidara  bata  dasti  inu^  buri  pitta  : 
evam  kayah  bahu    patati 

Sam     khu    khaysmula      iica       "^bana     paskauta    asara 
Samam  yatha     budbudah    udakasya  vatena  (?)  asarah 

ttatta  vara^ama       bvana         suhadiikha       tta^'^va    upeksa  ii 
evam     anubhavah    bodhaniyah  sukha-duhkhasya  tathft-vai      upeksa 

Sam     khu    husaiiida  uysnaura   huna^    daitta  khu    va   beyse-* 
Samam  yatha      svapan         sattvah      svapnam  pasyati  yada     vai   prabudh- 


parapliraaed,  taraka  and  timii'a  each  in  four  lines,  dipa,  mayavasyaya  and  budbuda 
each  in  two  lines,  svapna  and  vidyut  each  apparently  infonr  lines,  while  I  am  unable  to 
explain  the  correspondence  in  the  four  last  lines,  which  would  correspond  to  abhra.] 


^   Suj)erfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 
^  Read  aysmu.  ^  Read  hUnd. 

*  The  syllable  j'-se  is  in  a  different  handwriting,  apparently  the  same  as  that  on 
fol.38. 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  275 

[43  fti]       dye 

dhah-asti 

nija    nS,  vara    bhava    ni   drravya    samu   byata   hama  ttii  bada« 
nijasya   na   tatra  bhavasya  na  dravyasya  samam  smrtih  bhavet  tarn  kalam 

ttram"ina  tti       skauja       cu    mara     ye     liautta    bada 
tadrsam       te    samskarah  (?)  yan     iha     kascit  sapati  (?)  kalam 

samu  ra    tti    byata  •  ^  i"hama,    ttii  bada  ii 
samam    ca  atha    smrtih        bhavet     tarn    kalam 

Ttramma  mamnamda   khu  pyaura  baraberami^[na]  ttu   bada 
Evam  sadrsam       yatha  tam  kalam 

tti     manarh        pracai  diysdai      ha  rvaida  pryaura  prabhava- 

atha  matmam(?)  pratyayah  dharayati-enam   a  prabhave- 

[43  ¥]nc\. 
na 

ttatta  ustamajsye      skauja         skauja      cu  sa  vipakaja  bhranta 
evam      uttamasya     saihskarasya  samskarasya   yii    sa    vipakaja     bhrantih 

bi^uiiina  ^^tti     mamiia      diyseda      ha  rvaida  pyaura  prabhava-na  ii 
visvarupa    atha     m.atih  (?)   dharayati  (?)     a  prabhavena 

Ttti      padi     "'skauja       paiiitsamria       nau    padya    khu  mara  na 
Tam  prakaram  samskarah  pratj'aksi'karyah(?)  nava  prakaran  yatha    iha      na 

jsusta 

jnsate 

tti      vasve      '  byeha  •  i^ra@   samtsara   si    baudhisatva  ^ 
atha  visuddhah    bhuyah      raja  (?)  samsarasya  sah    bodhisattvah 

sarhtsira  gvaihna     nijiya     ^ni 
samsare    jneyam  (?)  nihanyat     ni- 

[44  ft']  nirvana  yaiiidi  prayaugana 
nirvana    kurute      prayogena 

hadi  vara  ni  si-ma      gvana     ttatta  a"varautta    hamrrasta 
eva     tatra  na  etat-me  jnej^am  (?)  evam    apratisthitam      samyak 

Ttu-bura    hve    gyasta     baysa         sira        hamye    a^i'^ri  Subhuta 
Eta  vat     avocat   yajatah    bhagavan  attamanas   babhuva    acaryah    Sabhutih 

Idam  avocad  bhagavan  attamanah,  sthavira-Subhutis  te  ca  bhiksu-bhiksuny-upasak- 


'   Superfluous  sign  of  interpunetion  at  end  of  line. 

^  There  is  a  sign  like  a  St.  Andrew's  cross  after  baudJdsatva. 

^  The  syllable  ni  has  been  repeated  at  the  head  of  fol.  44. 

T  2 


276  VAJRACCHEDIKA 

ava^istau    asirya  asi  uvaysa      tiysye    gyasta-  •  ^    iv^jyi^ana 

avasistah-ea    acaryah    bhiksunyah.     upasakah    upasikah       deva-  inanusyanam 

aysura-  gamddharvarii  astamna    lovya   parsa    Gyasta  baysa  •  ^    [44  U] 
asura-      gandharvanam       prabhrti    lankika  parsad     Yajatah.    bhagavan 

hadi  Vajrrachedaka  ttrsaya    prajnaparariima  samasye  ii     "Saddham 
evam    Vajjraccliedikam  trisatikam    prajfiaparamitiim     samapayat         Siddham 

Vajrrachidakyi  hiya  ttadi  sta      tta     "ibvanari : 

Vajracehedikayah  sariabandhinah  granthah  (?)    santah  evam       ucyante  I 

padamjsyaiii     badaiii        ^ina     ksira    ^au    laksa 
atitaniim         kalanam     ekasmin  nagare  ekam  laksam 

opasikas  te  ca   bodhisattvah.  sa-deva-manus-asura-gandharvas    ea   loko   bhagavato 
bhasitam  abbyanandann  iti.    Arya-vajracehedika  bhagavati  prajiiaparamita  samapta. 


TRANSLATION. 

[Verse  1]  In  three  ways  I  bow  down  to  tbe  buddhas  of  the  three  ages,^  with 
faith  ...  I  bow  down  to  the  law  of  three  vehicles,  and  also,  in  three  ways,  to  the 
order  of  mendicants. 

[Verse  2]  In  the  same  way  I  bow  down  to  the  siitra,  the  prajnaparamita  of 
the  buddhas,  the  mother  of  all  the  paramitas,  well  established,  deep,  pleasing, 
exalted. 

[Verse  3]  The  first  and  highest  of  the  life  of  enlightenment,^  the  essence  of 
all  the  dharmas,  which  ...  in  yoga  {?). 

[Verse  4]  Where  there  is  no as  the  dharmakaya. 

[Verse  5]  This  prajiiiiparamita  the  omniscient  Buddha  put  together  ;  and 
when  one  recites  and  explains  this  trisatika  *  called  ^^ajracchedika, 

[Verse  6]  It  altogether  clears  away  all  particles  (?)  of  karma  and  avarana  sins 
as  a  thunderbolt.     Therefore  its  name  is  Vajracchedika  (thunderbolt  cutter). 

[Verse  7]  Whatever  the  law  of  tbe  buddhas  may  be,  all  that  is  concentrated 
in  this  siitra,  in  the  Vajracchedika ;  therefore  it  is  so  pleasing  and  exalted. 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpuuctiou. 

^  Present,  past,  and  future.  ''  i.e.  iodhicaryd. 

*  Loanword,  meaning,  'consisting  of  300  granthas'. 


IN  THE   OLD  KHOTANESE   VEKSION  277 

[Verse  8]  Whosoever  learns  and  preserves  and  reads  it,  and  causes  it  to  be  written, 
by  him  the  entire  Law  will  be  grasped,  and,  after  death,  he  goes ...  in  bliss. 

[Verse  9]  He  whose  merit  is  great,  when  these  sutras  are  recited,  by  that 
prudent  man  .  .  .  shoxdd  be  altogether  made  by  this  sutra. 

[Verse  10]  Therefore  I  start  on  the  exposition  of  it,  in  love  of  the  Law  and 
with  faith,  if  the  buddhas  will  give  me  protection  so  that  I  can  preach  it  so  that  it 
may  be  grasped. 

[3  6"]  Hail !  Homage  be  done  in  the  direction  of  all  the  buddhas  and  bodhi- 
sattvas. 

Thus  it  was  heard  by  me  :  At  one  time  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  was  staying 
in  the  town  of  SravastI,  in  the  grove  of  prince  Jeta,  in  the  sangharama  of  the  mer- 
chant Anathapindika,  with  a  large  company  of  mendicants,  with  twelve  hundred 
and  fifty  monks.  Then  the  Venerable  among  Venerables,  the  Exalted  One,  in  the 
forenoon  put  on  his  undergarment,  took  his  bowl  and  cloak,  went  to  the  great  town 
of  SravastI  to  collect  alms,  and,  when  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  had  gone  to  the 
great  town  of  SravastI  to  collect  alms,  and  when  he  had  finished  the  food  business, 
and  when  he  had  returned,  after  eating  his  food,  he  put  away  his  bowl  and  cloak, 
washed  his  feet,  and  sat  down  on  the  seat  ordered  for  him,  his  legs  crossed,  the  body 
straight ;  and  he  was  then  fixing  the  thought  of  emptiness  before  himself.  Then 
many  monks  had  come  in  the  direction  where  the  Venerable  among  Venerables,  the 
Exalted  One  was  ;  when  they  had  come  there,  they  saluted  the  feet  of  the  Venerable 
among  Venerables,  the  Exalted,  with  their  heads,  went  three  times  round  the 
Venerable  Exalted  One  to  the  right  to  greet  him,  and  sat  down  on  one  side. 

[5  a"']  At  that  time  again  the  monk  Subhuti  appeared  there  in  that  assembly 
and  sat  down.  Then  the  monk  Subhiiti  rose  from  his  seat,  put  his  robe  over  one 
shoulder,  supported  the  right  knee  on  the  earth,  made  an  afijali-hand  for  him  in 
the  direction  where  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  sat,  and  said  to  the  Venerable 
Exalted  One  :  '  It  is  extraordinary,  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  how  much  the 
bodhisattvas,  the  great  beings  of  exaltedness,  have  been  favoured  with  the  highest 
favour  by  Thee,  the  Venerable  among  Venerables,  the  Exalted,  the  Ttaharau-preacher, 
worthy  of  worship,  who  is  properly  awake  in  all  the  quarters ;  how  much  the 
bodhisattvas,  the  great  beings  of  exaltedness,  have  been  gratified  with  the  highest 
gratification  by  thee,  the  "N^enerable,  the  Exalted,  who  wanderest  amongst  the 
Ttaharai,  who  conquerest  the  foes  which  are  the  klesas/  who  properly  understandest 
all  matters.  Then,  O  Merciful,  Venerable  and  Exalted,  how  should  a  being  of 
exaltedness,  who  wanders  on  the  bodhisattvayana,  remain  here  on  the  mahayana, 
and  how  should  he  restrain  his  mind  ? ' 


Compare  the  common  explanation  of  arhat  as  ari-han. 


278  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

[7  «"]  Upon  the  uttering  of  this  utterance,  the  Venerable  among  Venerables, 
the  Exalted  One,  said  to  the  monk  Subhuti :  '  Wellj  well,  Subhuti,  so  is  the  matter, 
Subhuti ;  the  bodhisattvas  have  been  favoured  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  with 
the  highest  favour,  the  bodhisattvas  have  been  gratified  by  the  Venerable  Exalted 
One  with  the  highest  gratification.  Therefore,  O  Subhuti,  listen  and  take  it  to 
heart  well  and  rightly.  I  shall  tell  thee  how  a  being  of  exaltedness,  who  wanders 
on  the  bodhisattvayana,  should  remain  here  on  the  mahayana  and  how  he  should 
restrain  his  mind.'  '  So  it  is  good,  O  Venerable  Exalted  One ' ;  with  those  words 
the  monk  Subhuti  listened  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  One. 

[9  r("]  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  to  him  :  '  A  being  of  exaltedness, 
O  Subhuti,  who  wanders  here  on  the  bodhisattvayana,  must  thus  frame  his  mind,  "  as 
many  beings  as  come  under  enumeration  under  the  conception  of  beings,  those  born  of 
eggs  and  those  born  from  the  womb,  those  who  are  born  in  moisture,  those  who  are 
born  miraculously,  those  with  form  and  without  form,  those  with  intelligence  and 
without  intelligence,  and  those  beings  which  are  not  with  nor  without  intelligence, 
whichever  world  of  beings  might  be  known  that  is  considered  as  capable  of  being  made 
known,  all  those  beings  must  be  delivered  by  me  in  the  objectless  nirvana."  And  after 
he  has  thus  delivered  immeasurable  beings,  he  would  not  have  delivered  a  single  being. 
And  because  of  what  matter  ?  If,  O  Subhuti,  a  bodhisattva  had  any  idea  [about 
a  being],  he  should  not  be  called  a  bodhisattva.  And  because  of  what  matter  ? 
He  should  not,  O  Subhuti,  be  called  a  bodhisattva,  for  whom  there  might  exist  the 
idea  about  a  being,  or  the  idea  about  a  living  being,  or  the  idea  about  a  person. 
Thus  further,  O  Subhuti,  a  bodhisattva  should  not  give  a  gift  while  he  is  dependent 
on  any  object  of  existence,  or  give  a  gift  relying  on  any  reward ;  not  relying  on 
forms  should  he  give  his  gift,  not  on  sounds,  not  on  things  that  can  be  smelt, 
tasted,  or  touched,  not  relying  on  dharmas  should  he  give  a  gift.  Thus,  O  Subhuti, 
should  a  gift  be  given  by  a  bodhisattva,  that  there  is  no  giver  or  receiver  or  gift 
under  the  idea  of  qualities.  And  because  of  what  matter  ?  The  bodhisattva, 
O  Suljhuti,  who  gives  a  gift  without  relying  on  anything,  the  stock  of  merit  of 
that  bodhisattva,  O  Subhuti,  cannot  easily  be  measured.' 

[11  5'"']  '  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti?  Can  the  space  in  the  direction 
of  the  rising  (eastern)  quarter  be  easily  measured?'  The  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  : 
'  No,  Venerable  Exalted  One.'  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  In 
like  matter,  can  the  space  be  easily  measured  in  the  south,  in  the  west,  in  the  north, 
below  and  above,  in  the  ten  quarters  ? '  The  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus :  '  No, 
O  Venerable  Exalted  One.'  The  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  Thus  is  this 
matter,  O  Subhuti,  thus  is  this  matter.  The  bodhisattva  who  gives  a  gift  without 
relying  on  an^'thing,  his  stock  of  merit  cannot  easity  be  measured.  What  is  then 
the  matter,  O  Subhuti  ?  a  gift  should  be  given  by  a  bodhisattva  [in  such  a  way].' 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  279 

[12  i"']  '  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti  ?  Should  the  Venerable  Exalted 
Oae  be  viewed  from  the  possession  of  signs  ? '  Subhuti  spoke  thus :  '  No. '  '  Wherever, 
O  Subhuti,  there  is  a  sign,  there  is  falsehood,  hence  the  siga  of  the  Venerable 
Exalted  One  is  to  be  viewed  as  no-sign.' 

[13  a"]  Upon  the  uttering  of  that  utterance  the  monk  Subhuti  thus  spoke  to 
the  Venerable  Exalted  One  :  '  Is  it  the  case,  O  Venerable  Exalted  One,  will  there  be 
some  beings  in  the  last  time  who  will  frame  a  wrong  idea  about  such  sutras? 
The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus :  '  Do  not  thou,  O  Subhuti,  speak 
thus.  In  the  last  time,  in  the  last  500  years,  in  the  time  when  the  good  law 
decays,  there  will  at  all  events  be  good  and  wise  beings.  They  will  not  have  served 
one  Venerable  Exalted  One  only,  they  will  not  have  sown  their  meritorious  roots  of 
bliss  on  one  Venerable  Exalted  One  only.  In  these  sutras  they  will  in  one  moment 
obtain  a  pure  mind.  They  are  known  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One,  they  are  seen 
by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One.  They  are  endowed  with  an  unmeasurable  stock  of 
merit.  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  O  Subhuti  ?  There  would  not  exist  the  idea 
of  self,  and  not  the  idea  of  a  being,  not  the  idea  of  a  living  being,  not  the  idea  of 
a  pudgala  would  exist.'  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  It  appears, 
O  Subhuti,  just  as  if  one  realizes  the  teaching  of  the  law  as  a  raft.  The  right  of 
it  must  altogether  be  abandoned,  much  more  the  unright.  Just  as  a  man  when 
there  is  some  business  on  the  other  shore  (?),  does  not  abandon  the  raft  (?)  so  long  as 
he  has  not  reached  the  shore  (?),  but  does  not  carry  it  any  more  after  he  has  arrived, 
thus  a  being  of  exaltedness,  when  he  realizes  bliss,  does  not  reflect  on  inauspicious 
things,  and  he  should  not  make  any  ...  at  all  in  the  law.  Therefore,  how  does 
it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti?  Is  there  any  law  which  might  have  been  preached 
by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  ?  '  'It  has  been  preached  by  all  the  Venerable 
Exalted  Ones,  because  they  are  known  as  aryapudgalas.'  ^ 

The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  to  him  :  '  O  Subhuti,  if  somebody  would 
fiU  the  lokadhatus  of  the  trisahasri  mahasahasri  with  the  seven  gems  of  treasures, 
and  give  gifts,  then  how  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti  ;  would  that  noble  son  or 
daughter  of  a  elan  acquire  great  merit  ?  '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  O  Merciful 
Venerable  Exalted  One,  a  very  great  store  of  merit  he  would  produce.  What  is 
the  matter,  O  Venerable  Exalted  One  ?  The  stock  of  merit  has  been  preached  as 
a  no-stock  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One,  because  it  leads  to  (?)  buddhahood  as  the 
law ;  therefore  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus,  a  stock  of  merit  indeed. 

[16  «"']  'When  one  gives  the  lokadhatus  of  the  trisahasri  mahasahasri  as  a  gift, 


'  The  translation  is  very  uncertain,  and  the  text  is  probably  incomplete  and  should 
be  restored  as  in  23  a:  there  is  not  any  such  law  as  might  have  been  preached  by  all 
the  Venerable  Exalted  Ones. 


280  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

and  again  if  there  were  another  one  who  would  take  a  stanza  of  four  padas  of  the 
treatise  of  the  law,  learn  it,  and  explain  it  to  others  in  full,  he  (the  latter  one)  would 
through  this  merit  produce  merit  unmeasurable  and  untold.  And  because  of  what 
matter  ?  The  exaltedness  of  the  Exalted  Ones,  0  Venerable  Exalted  One,  is  produced 
from  it.' 

[16  ¥''^  '  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  O  Subhuti  ?  Would  a  srotaapanna  think 
in  this  way :  "  the  fruit  of  the  srotaapannas  has  been  realized  by  me,  because  if  that 
were  not  the  case,  which  law  would  then  be  connected  with  the  obeisance  belonging 
to  the  aryastangamarga  ?  " '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus :  '  No,  O  Merciful  Vener- 
able Exalted  One,  he  would  not  have  realized  the  smallest  (?)  matter.  Therefore  he 
is  called  a  srotaapanna,  and  has  not  realized  any  form,  nor  sounds,  nor  smells,  nor 
things  that  can  be  touched,  nor  dharmas.     Therefore  he  is  called  a  srotaapanna.'  ^ 

[17  b^l  '  Would  a  sakrdagamin  think  in  this  way :  "  the  fruit  of  the  sakrdiiga,- 
mins  has  been  realized  by  me,  because  if  that  were  not  the  case,  which  law  would 
then  be  connected  therewith  ?  " '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus :  '  No  indeed,  O 
Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  there  is  no  such  dharma  as  a  sakrdagamin.' 

[17  5"]  The  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus:  'How  does  it  appear  to  thee? 
Would  an  arhat  think  in  this  way :  "  arhatship  has  been  realized  by  me,  since  I  am 
overpowering  the  klesa  enemies  ?  "  '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  No,  O  Merciful 
Venerable  Exalted  One,  there  is  no  such  dharma  as  might  be  called  arhatship.  If 
an  arhat  were  to  think  in  this  way :  "  arhatship  has  been  realized  by  me,"  there 
would  ensue  a  conception  of  a  self,  a  conception  of  a  being,  a  conception  of  a  living 
being,  a  conception  of  a  pudgala.  By  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  the  defeat  of  the 
klesa  enemies  has  been  declared  in  my  case  to  be  splendid,  the  foremost  of  all.  If 
I  had  wrapped  myself  with  affection  in  the  arhatwisdom,  the  Venerable  Exalted 
One  would  not  have  prophesied  of  me :  "  he  is  the  highest  aranaviharin  of  allj 
who  in  the  arana,  resplendent  in  absorption,  reaches  the  defeat  of  the  klesas  in 
a  different  train  of  thought."  ' 

[19  a"]  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  :  '  How  does  it  appear  to  thee, 
Subhuti  ?  Is  there  any  such  law  which  might  have  been  taken  over  by  me  from  the 
Venerable  Exalted  Dipamkara  ?  Could  such  a  law  which  must  naturally  be  realized, 
be  taken  over  ? '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus :  '  Indeed,  O  Merciful  Venerable 
Exalted  One,  there  is  not  any  such  law  as  thou  mightest  have  taken  over  from  the 
Venerable  Exalted  Dipamkara,  because  the  law  which  must  naturally  be  realized, 
could  not  be  taken  over.' 

[19  b^^]  'He,  O  Subhuti,  who  would  speak  thus :  "I  will  produce  a  display  of 


^  The  text  has,  apparently  hy  mistake,  sakrttagama. 


IN   THE  OLD  KHOTANESE   VERSION  281 

buddhaksetras",  he  would  speak  untruth.  The  buddhaksetravyuhas  have  been 
declared  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  to  be  avyuhas,  non-displays,  devoid  of  form. 
Therefore,  O  Subhuti,  a  bodhisattva  should  frame  his  mind  so  that  it  is  independent, 
and  he  should  give  gifts  not  being  bound  up  with  visible  things,  sounds,  or  things 
that  can  be  smelt,  tasted,  or  touched.  It  is,  O  Subhuti,  as  if  there  were  a  man 
who  had  a  body  as  large  as  Mount  Meru.  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti, 
would  that  be  a  large  body  [which  was  as  large]  as  Mount  Meru  ?  '  '  Very  large, 
O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One.'  The  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  This 
body  is  an  abhava  (non-existence),  therefore  it  is  called  atmabhava  ;  the  sambhogika 
body  of  the  Exalted  Ones  disappears  without  the  samskaras  (?).' 

[21  a']  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  Suppose  there  were  as 
many  lokadhatus  as  the  sands  in  the  river  Ganges,  and  that  some  man  or  woman 
were  to  fill  them  with  the  seven  treasures,  and  give  gifts  to  the  Venerable  Exalted 
Ones,  how  great  would  his  meritorious  roots  of  bliss  be  ?  Now  to  a  man  or 
woman  who  of  this  Vajracchedika  prajfiaparamita  would  preserve  one  stanza  of  four 
pada,  read  it,  learn  it,  or  explain  it  in  full  to  others^  there  would,  on  account  of 
that,  be  large  meritorious  roots  of  bliss.  And  the  individual  country  where 
this  law  were,  that  country  would  become  worthy  of  worship  by  the  world  of  gods 
and  men.  In  which  country  that  law  might  be,  that  country  would  become  pleasant 
like  a  caitya.    And  the  praised  Lord  stays  there,  and  the  best  and  highest  preceptor.' 

22  «"]  Upon  the  uttering  of  that  utterance  the  monk  Subhuti  thus  spoke  to 
the  Venerable  Exalted  One  :  '  What  is  the  name  of  this  law,  O  Venerable  Exalted 
One,  and  how  shall  I  preserve  its  name  ? '  Upon  the  uttering  of  this  utterance  the 
Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus :  'Prajfiaparamita,  O  Subhuti,  is  the  name  of  this 
Law,  and  so  thou  must  preserve  its  name.  And  this  indeed  has  been  called  an  apara- 
mita  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One.  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti,  is  there 
any  law  which  might  have  been  preached  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  ?  '  Subhuti 
spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  As  I  understand  the  meaning  of  this  word,  O  Merciful 
Venerable  Exalted  One,  there  is  not  any  such  law  as  might  have  been  preached 
by  all  the  Venerable  Exalted  Ones.' 

The  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus :  '  Then  how  does  it  appear  to  thee, 
Subhuti,  should  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  be  recognized  by  the  thirty-two  maha- 
pm-usalaksanas  (signs  of  a  great  person)  ?  '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  No,  O 
Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One  ;  the  thirty-two  characteristics  of  good  men  have 
been  declared  by  the  Exalted  One  to  be  non-characteristics,  because  the  body  of  the 
law  is  the  body  rupakaya  of  the  anuvyanjanas  (secondary  marks) ;  therefore  they 
are  called  the  thirty-two  characteristics  of  good  men.' 

'  When  a  man  or  woman,  now,  O  Subhiiti,  has  sacrificed  his  bodies,  as  many 
as  the  sands  of  the  river  Ganges,  and  if  there  were  another  one  who  would  hear 


282  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

a  stanza  of  four  padas  of  this  sutra,  grasp  it  and  explain  it  in  full  to  others,  the  stock 
of  merit  of  this  (latter  one)  would  be  greater^  unmeasured  and  untold.' 

[24  a"]  Then  the  monk  Subhuti,  moved  by  the  power  of  the  Law,  made  a 
shedding  of  tears.  Having  wiped  off  his  tears  he  thus  spoke  to  the  Venerable 
Exalted  One  :  '  Very  difficult,  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  is  this  Law,  from 
which  knowledge  has  come  to  me.  Never  has  such  a  deep  Law  been  heard  by  me. 
What  is  a  bliutasamjiiri,  that  is  indeed  an  abhutasamjna.  And  that  idea  is  not  the 
teaching  of  the  Exalted  Ones.  Those  who  believe  in  this  Law  and  he  who  writes  it 
or  takes  it  over,  they  will  not  be  possessed  of  any  idea  about  self,  or  about  a  being, 
or  aliout  a  living  being,  or  about  a  person  ;  for  them  there  will  not  be  the  slightest 
grasping  of  an  idea  of  an  object.' 

[25  a']  Upon  the  uttering  of  that  utterance  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke 
thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti :  '  So  it  is,  O  Venerable  Exalted  One,^  those  will  be  in 
possession  of  something  \'ery  difficult  to  achieve,  who  do  not  get  frightened  or 
alarmed  or  into  trembling  at  this  sutra  when  they  sit  reading  it.  This  paramita 
is  exceedingly  difficult  to  achieve  ;  and  immeasurable  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  have 
preached  this  paramita. 

'And  again  the  paramita  of  endurance  connected  with  (the  Tathagata)  is  like  to 
that.  At  the  time  when  the  Kali-king  cut  me  up  limb  by  limb,  at  that  time  there 
was  not  to  me  any  idea  of  self,  nor  idea  of  a  being,  nor  idea  of  a  living  being,  nor 
idea  of  a  person.  At  that  time  there  was  not  to  me  any  idea  or  non-idea.  If  I  had 
then  had  any  notion  of  self,  then  I  should  have  had  a  notion  connected  with  my 
destruction. 

[26a']  'I  know,  O  Subhuti,  I  do  remember,  five  hundred  births  in  the  past 
times,  when  I  was  the  Rishi  Ksantivadin.  Then  I  had  no  idea  of  a  self,  no  idea  of 
a  being,  no  idea  of  a  living  being,  no  idea  of  a  person.  And  on  account  of  that 
matter,  O  Subhuti,.  a  bodhisattva,  a  great  being  of  exaltedness,  should  keep  back 
from  all  ideas  and  direct  his  mind  towards  the  highest  enlightenment,  and  not  make 
his  mind  dependent  on  visible  objects,  nor  on  things  that  can  be  heard,  smelt,  tasted, 
or  touched,  and  not  on  the  dharmas,  and  not  on  a  reward  anywhere  he  should  make 
his  mind  dependent.  With  independent  mind  he  should  give  gifts,  so  that  he  does 
not  get  tied  up  with  the  idea  of  qualities,  for  the  sake  of  the  weal  of  all  beings. 
This  notion  is  not  among  the  skandhas  (?).  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  would  speak 
what  is  real,  would  speak  what  is  true.  His  preaching  is  nothing  else,  because 
the  wise  man  who  walks  straight  on  the  sravakayana,  he  is  truly  (')  on  the 
mahayuna.     The  preaching  of  the  Tathagatas  is  not  otherwise. 


'■  Should  be  '  0  Subhuti '.     There  is  a  mistake  in  the  text. 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE  VERSION  283 

[27  a*^]  '  Subhuti,  as  for  the  law  whicli  has  been  perceived  by  the  Exalted  One, 
it  does  not  contain  truth  nor  falsehood.  A  matter  which  is  propounded  in  letters 
one  might  leave  to  go  in  every  quarter  (?).  Just,  0  Subhuti,  as  if  a  man  had  gone 
out  into  the  dark  and  could  not  distinguish  any  object,  thus  a  bodhisattva  should 
be  considered,  who  having  been  made  to  depend  on  objects^  would  give  away ;  he 
does  not  see. 

'And,  O  Subhuti,  just  as  a  man  who  has  got  eyes,  when  the  night  has  become 
light  and  the  sun  is  shining,  sees  all  kinds  of  objects,  in  that  way  a  bodhisattva 
should  be  considered,  who,  without  being  dependent  on  any  object,  gives  a  gift. 
He  would  not  (simply)  give  it  away,  he  sees. 

[28  a'"]  '  That  noble  son  and  daughter  of  a  clan  '■  who  preserve  this  law  and  read 
it,  they  are  known  and  seen  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  Ones,  and  they  are  endowed 
with  an  unnieasured  store  of  merit. 

[28  //"]  'And  if  a  woman  or  man  in  the  morning  would  sacrifice  as  many  bodies 
as  there  are  grains  of  sand  in  the  river  Ganges,  and  would  sacrifice  as  many  at  noon 
and  at  night,  and  going  on  in  that  way  for  kotis  of  kalpas  would  give  gifts,  still  the 
man  who  hears  this  sutra,  does  not  reject  it  but  believes  in  it,  would  in  consequence 
acquire  a  larger  store  of  merit,  unmeasured  and  untold.  What  again  about  the  men 
who  write  it  ?  he  ^  would  acquire  a  still  greater  store  of  merit,  unmeasured  and  untold. 
What  again  [need  be  said]  about  the  man  who  learns  it  or  teaches  it  to  others  ? 
Where  they  explain  that  law,  that  country  would  become  an  object  of  worship  bj- 
the  worlds  of  gods  and  men,  worthy  of  praise  and  of  being  perambulated  towards  the 
right  in  salutation.  The  worship  of  that  place  should  be  made  as  if  it  were  a 
caitya. 

[29  i"]  '  Those  noble  sons  or  daughters  of  clans,  who  preserve  such  a  sutra,  recite 
it,and  understand  it,  are  paribhuta^^  and  well  paribhuta  indeed.  And  that  on  account 
of  which  matter  ?  Such  acts  done  by  those  beings  in  former  existences  from  which 
rebirth  in  the  three  apayas  ^  would  be  obtained,  all  those  acts  disappear  through  the 
power  of  that  sutra,  and  they  soon  obtain  the  highest  enlightenment. 

[30  «"']  '  I  do  remember,  O  Subhuti,  eighty-four  hundred  thousand  niyutas  of 
kotis  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones,  of  earlier  times,  of  untold  kalpas,  beyond  the 
Venerable  and  Exalted  Dlpamkara,  who  all  were  pleased  by  me  and  not  displeased. 
Those  now  who  will  be  in  the  last  time,  in  the  last  five  hundred  years,  who  recite 
this  Vajracchedika  sutra,  cause  it  to  be  written,  preserve  it,  and  worship  it  with 
incense  (?),  and  he  who  worships  even  a  single  sloka,  the  former  store  of  merit  of 

'  Wrong  concord  in  the  text.  [But  see  note  3  on  p.  262  ;  hence  perhaps  '  As  regards 
(cu  =  yat)  those  noble  sons  and  daughters  ',  &c. — E.  H.] 

^  The  Skr.  loanword  has  not  been  translated  in  the  text. 
'  Compare  L.V.,  p.  89,  1.  14,  &c. 


284  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

that  noble  son  of  a  clan  will  not  reacli  a  hundredth,  or  a  thousandth,  or  a  ten 
millionth,  or  so  much  as  a  number,  or  so  much  as  an  upanisad.' 

[31 «'"]  Then  the  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  the  Exalted  Venerable  One  : 
'  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  how  should  he  who  wanders  on  the  bodhisatt- 
vayana  restrain  his  mind  here  on  the  mahayana  ? '  The  Venerable  Exalted  One 
spoke  thus  to  him  :  '  0  Subhuti,  a  bodhisattva,  a  great  being-  of  exaltedness,  should 
here  frame  his  mind  thus  :  "all  beings  should  be  delivered  in  the  objectless  nirvana." 
But  not  a  single  being  would  have  to  be  delivered.  And  that  on  account  of  which 
matter?  If,  O  Subhuti,  a  bodhisattva  had  any  notion  of  a  being,  he  ought  not  to 
be  called  a  bodhisattva,  and  if  he  had  any  notion  of  a  self  or  a  notion  of  a  living 
being,  or  a  notion  of  a  person,  he  ought  not  to  be  called  a  bodhisattva.  And  that 
on  account  of  which  matter  ?  There  is  no  such  dharma  as  one  who  wanders  on  the 
bodhisattvayana. 

[32  a"^]  'Is  there  now,  O  Subhuti,  any  such  dharma,  as  might  have  been 
realized  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One,  from  (the  mouth  of)  the  Venerable  Exalted 
Dipamkara,  with  regard  to  the  highest  enlightenment  ?  '  Upon  the  uttering  of 
that  utterance  the  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  :  '  0 
Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  there  is  no  such  dharma  as  might  have  been 
realized  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  with  regard  to  the  highest  enlightenment.' 

[32  ^"']  Upon  the  uttering  of  this  utterance  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke 
thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti  :  '  Thus  is  this  matter,  0  Subhuti,  there  is  no  dharma 
which  might  have  been  realized  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  from  the  Venerable 
Exalted  Dipamkara  with  regard  to  enlightenment.  If,  O  Subhuti,  there  had  been 
any  such  dharma  as  might  have  been  realized  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  with 
regard  to  enlightenment,  he  would  not  have  prophesied  of  me  :  "  thou  wilt  become, 
young  man,  in  the  future  time,  a  Venerable  Exalted  One,  Sakyamuni  by  name." 
For  it  is  emptiness  which  is  enlightenment.  There  is  no  truth  and  no  false- 
hood in  it. 

[33  J']  '  It  is,  O  Subhuti,  as  if  there  were  a  man,  whose  body  were  great.' 
Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  him  :  '  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  this  body  has  been 
called  a  non-body  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One.'  '  Then  how  does  it  appear  to 
thee,  Subhuti,  is  there  such  a  dharma,  as  might  have  been  realized  by  the  Venerable 
Exalted  One  with  regard  to  the  highest  enlightenment  ?  '  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to 
him  :  '  No,  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  there  is  no  such  dharma  as  a  being 
of  enlightenment  would  be.' 

[34  a"]  '  He  who  is  confident  that  all  objects  are  without  self,  without  being, 
without  personality,  he  might  eifect  a  vyuha  (display)  of  buddhaksetras.  He  would 
then  not  have  to  be  called  a  being  of  exaltedness.  He  who  is  (simply)  confident  that 
all  objects  are  without  self,  he  is  called  a  bodhisattva  by  the  Tathagata.' 


IN  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VEKSION  285 

[34  i*]  '  Then  how  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti,  has  the  Venerable  Exalted 
One  eyes  of  flesh  ?  '  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  him  :  '  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  has 
eyes  of  flesh.' 

Then  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti :  '  Does  the 
Venerable  Exalted  One  possess  divine  eyes  r '  The  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  the 
Venerable  Exalted  One  :  ^  '  The  Exalted  Venerable  One  possesses  divine  eyes.' 

Then  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti :  '  Has  the 
Venerable  Exalted  One  the  eyes  of  the  law  ? '  The  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  :  '  The 
Venerable  Exalted  One  has  the  eyes  of  the  law.' 

[35 «'"]  Then  the  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  One : 
'  Have  the  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  the  eyes  of  knowledge  ?  '  The  Venerable  Exalted 
One  spoke  thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti :  *  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  possesses  the  eye 
of  knowledge." 

Then  the  monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  :  '  Have  the 
Venerable  Exalted  Ones  the  eyes  of  the  law  ? '  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke 
thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti  :  '  The  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  have  the  eyes  of  the 
law.' 

Then  the  monk  ^  Subhuti  spoke  thus  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  :  '  Have  the 
Venerable  Exalted  Ones  the  eyes  of  exaltedness  ? '  '0  monk  Subhuti,  the  Veneraljle 
Exalted  Ones  have  the  eyes  of  exaltedness.' 

[86  a"']  Then  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  addressed  the  monk  Subhuti  and 
spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  He  who  would  fill  the  lokadhatu  of  this  trisahasri  mahasahasri 
with  the  seven  treasures  and  give  gifts,  how  many  happy  roots  of  bliss  would  that 
noble  son  or  daughter  of  a  clan  be  able  to  produce  ? '  The  monk  Subhuti  spoke 
thus :  '  A  very  great  collection  of  happy  roots  of  bliss,  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted 
One,  he  would  produce.  But  what  about  the  favour  shown  by  that  noble  son  or 
daughter  of  a  clan  who  would  write  even  a  stanza  of  four  padas  of  this  Vajracchedika 
sutra,  learn  it,  preserve  it,  recite  it,  and  worship  it  with  incense  ?  The  store  of  merit 
of  that  noble  [son  or]  daughter  of  a  clan  would  be  greater.  [The  other  one]  does  not 
reach  a  hundredth,  a  thousandth,  or  as  much  as  an  upanisad.' 

[37  a"']  Then  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti : 
'  How  does  it  appear  to  thee,  O  monk  Subhuti,  on  account  of  which  matter  is  that  ? 
Should  a  Venerable  Exalted  One  be  judged  from  the  possession  of  signs  ? '  The 
monk  Subhuti  spoke  thus  :  'No,  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted  One,  the  Venerable 
Exalted  One  should  not  be  recognized  from  the  possession  of  signs.  If,  O  Venerable 
Exalted  One,  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  should  be  recognized  from  the  possession  of 


The  text  has  '  The  Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  thus  to  the  monk  Subhuti '. 


286  VAJEACCHEDIKA 

signs,  the  Exalted  One  would  have  become  a  king,  an  emperor.  Therefore  the 
Exalted  One  should  be  recognized  from  the  possession  of  the  signs  of  an  emperor- 
king.' 

[38  ay]  Then  the  Venerable  Exalted  Oae  recited  these  stanzas  : 

'  Those  who  see  me  in  the  body  and  think  of  me  in  words, 

their  way  of  thinking  is  false,  they  do  not  see  me  at  all. 

The  Exalted  Ones  should  be  viewed  as  being  the  Law  ;  their  body  consists  of 
the  Law  ; 

he  is  rightly  understood  as  being  the  Law,  and  he  is  not  to  be  understood  by 
means  of  expedients.' 

[38  a}'']  '  Then  how  does  it  appear  to  thee,  Subhuti  ?  He  who  would  say,  "  the 
Exalted  One  stands,  or  sits,  or  he  might  lie  down  or  walk,"  does  he  understand  the 
meaning  of  my  words  ?  What  is  the  matter,  Subhuti  ?  The  Exalted  One  is  called 
a  Tathagata,  because  he  never  goes.  Those  who  are  foolish  conceive  it  falsely.  This 
dharma  is  perceived  by  fools  and  common  people.  And  that  on  account  of  which 
matter?  If  any  one  were  to  speak  thus,  O  Subhuti:  "belief  in  a  self  has  been 
preached  by  the  Exalted  One,"  then  [the  answer  is  that]  it  has  been  preached  as 
a  no-belief,  because  the  belief  in  self  is  unreal.  Therefore  it  has  been  said  by  the 
Venerable  Exalted  One  :  "  this  dharma  has  been  perceived  byfools  and  common  people." 

[39  a''']  ^ '  The  country  where  they  explain  this  sutra,  the  praised  Lord  stays 
there  and  the  best  and  highest  pireceptor.'  Upon  the  uttering  of  that  utterance  the 
monk  Subhuti  thus  spoke  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  :  '  What  is  the  name  of  this 
Law,  O  Venerable  Exalted  One,  and  how  shall  I  preserve  its  name  ? '  The  Venerable 
Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  Prajhaparamita,  O  Subhuti,  is  the  name  of  the  Law, 
and  so  thou  must  preserve  its  name.  And  what  is  a  prajnaparamita,  that  has  been 
called  a  non-paramita  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One.  How  does  it  appear  to  thee, 
Subhuti,  is  there  now  any  Law  from  which  knowledge  has  come  to  me  ?  Should 
the  Venerable  Exalted  One  be  viewed  from  [the  possession  of]  the  thirty-two  maha- 
purusalaksanas  ? '  Subhuti  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  No,  O  Merciful  Venerable  Exalted 
One,  they  have  been  called  non-characteristics  by  the  Venerable  Exalted  One.'  The 
Venerable  Exalted  One  spoke  to  him  thus  :  '  Thus,  O  Subhuti,  are  all  dharmas  to 
be  perceived  by  a  being  of  exaltedness  who  wanders  on  the  bodhisattvayana  that 
he  does  not  depend  on  the  idea  of  dharma.  And  the  bodhisattva,  the  being  of 
exaltedness,  who  would  fill  unmeasured  and  untold  lokadhatus  with  the  seven 
treasures  and  give  gifts,  and  the  noble  son  or  daughter  of  a  clan  who  would 
take  even  a  stanza  of  four  pada  within  the  Law  of  this  Vajracchedika  prajiiapara- 


This  is  a  repetition  of  the  passage  above,  22  ai-22  6". 


m  THE   OLD   KHOTANESE   VERSION  287 

mita,  learn  it  and  explain  it  in  the  presence  of  others, — the  latter  would  from  this 
produce  a  larger  stock  of  merit,  unmeasured  and  untold.  And  it  should  be  explained 
in  such  a  way  that  the  high  opinion  of  the  beings  does  not  disappear  and  that  they 
pay  respect  to  it  and  grasp  it  entirely.  Thus,  it  is  said,  should  it  be  explained.' 
[41  a''']  Then  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  recited  these  stanzas  : 
Just  as  the  stars  are  seen  yonder,  and  shine  all  right  at  night ;  but  when 
it  becomes  bright,  and  the  sun  rises,  then  they  all  become  non-refulgent, 
so  the  organs  of  sense,  beginning  with  the  eye,  should  be  considered  as  perishable  ; 
if  however  my  view  is  right,  they  appear  well  recognizable  (?)  as  not  my  own. 

Just  as  a  man  who  has  a  cataract  ^  in  his  eye  sees  all  sorts  of  things,  but  the 
real  state  of  things  is  not  such,  they  appear  to  him  in  consequence  of  his  cataract, 
thus  the  forms  appear  to  fools,  manifold  and  of  all  kinds,  without  the  mind  they 
are  not  perceptible  (?),  that  the  mind  is  right  is  a  false  conception. 
Just  as  the  beings  wander  about  with  the  help  of  lamps, 
thus  the  view  of  the  .  .  .  should  be  realized  from  the  mind. 

Just  as sits  and  falls, 

thus  the  body  ....  falls. 

Just  as  worthless  bubbles  are  raised  in  the  water  by  the  wind, 

thus  the  attainment  of  happiness  and  misery,  and  indifference  should  be 

realized  [?]. 
Just  as  a  person  sees  a  dream  while  sleeping,  and  when  he  awakes  he  does 
not  then  remember  his  own  condition  or  the  object  (of  the  dream)  at  that  time,  thus 
the  impressions  which  one  receives  in  this  time  will  be  remembered  in  the  same 
way  at  that  time. 

Like  as  when  ....  at  that  time,  and  then  confidence  in  the  notions  takes  hold 
of  him  ...  by  the  force  of .  .  .  thus  the  illusion  which  arises  as  a  result  of  the  last 
impression,  takes  hold  of  him  as  a  manifold  notion  by  the  force  of  .  .  . 

In  this  way  the  impressions  should  be  realized  (?),  in  nine  manners,  so  that  he 
does  not  delight  in  them,  then  he  would  become  ever  more  purified,  the  king  (?)  of 
the  samsara,  and  that  bodhisattva  would  conquer  the  ideas  in  the  saihsara,  and 
accomplish  them  in  nirvana  through  application  ; 


'  Kaca  is  thus  defined  by  Madhavakara,  as  quoted  in  the  Sabdakalpadruma, 
candrddityau  sanaksatrav  antarlkse  ca  vidyutah  | 
iiirmalani  ca  tejaiiisi  hhrdjisnuni-tva  iMsyati  II 

And  Vagbhata  says, 

kdcibhute  drg  aruna  pasyaty  asyam  andsikani  I 
candraJ'ipAdyanekatvam  vakram  rjo  api  many  ate  II 

Kdca  is,  according  to  Su^ruta,  the  second  stage  of  cataract,  while  timira,  the  word  used  in 

the  Sanskrit  text,  is  the  third. 


288   VAJEACCHEDIKA  IN  THE  OLD  KHOTANESE  VERSION 

Thus  this  is  not  .  .  .  ,  thus  altogether  independent. 

This  much  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  said.  Pleased  was  the  monk  Subhuti, 
the  other  monks  and  nuns,  the  male  and  female  lay  worshippers,  the  audience  in 
the  world  of  gods,  men,  asuras,  gandharvas,  etc. 

Thus  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  completed  the  Vajracchedika,  the  prajiiapa- 
ramita  of  three  hundred  [granthas]. 

Hail.  Thus  are  spoken  the  passages  belonging  to  the  Vajracchedika ;  in  bygone 
days  [were  recited]  one  hundred  thousand  [granthas]  in  one  place  [?]. 


THE  APARIMITAYUH  SUTRA 

The  Old  Khotanese  Version  togethee  with  the  Sanskrit  Text  and  the 

Tibetan  Translation. 

Stein  MS.,  Ch.  xlvi.  0013.5.     (Plates  XIV— XVII.) 

Edited  by  Sten  Konow 

INTRODUCTION 

The  Aparimitayuh  Sutra  is  a  Dharani  which  has  long  been  known  to  exist  in 
Sanskrit  manuscripts  and  in  Tibetan,  but  which  has  not  hitherto  attracted  much 
notice  in  Eui'ope.  It  has,  however,  enjoyed  great  fame  in  the  Buddhist  world,  and 
we  now  know  that  it  has  been  translated  into  Khotanese,  the  old  Iranian  dialect 
of  Eastern  Turkestan. 

A  complete  manuscript  of  this  version  was  found  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein  in  the 
cave  temples  at  the  Halls  of  the  Thousand  Buddhas,  the  same  place  which  yielded 
the  valuable  manuscript  of  the  Vajracchedika,  published  above  pp.  214  fF.  A 
description  of  the  manuscript  and  a  transliteration  of  the  beginning  was 
published  by  Dr.  Hoernle,^  who  has  subsequently  revised  this  text  ^  and  also  ^ 
given  an  edition  of  fols.  7  and  8  with  facsimile  plates.  An  edition  of  Dr. 
Hoernle's  transcript  of  the  beginning  of  the  text  was  finally  published  by  Professor 
Leumann.* 

The  manuscript  is  complete,  but  not  uniform.  The  whole  consists  of  twenty 
leaves,  written  on  paper,  and  numbered,  in  the  left-hand  margin,  on  the  reverse  of 
fol.  1  and  on  the  obverse  of  the  remaining  folios.  With  the  exception  of  fols.  7  and 
8,  which  will  be  dealt  with  separately,  the  manuscript  leaves  measure  350  x  63  mm. 
(or   13f  X   2^  inches).      The  obverse  of  fol.  1   and  the  reverse  of  fol.   20    have 

^  Journal  of  the  Koyal  Asiatic  Society,  1910,  pp.  834  and  ff. 

'  I.e.,  p.  1293. 

»  I.e.,  1911,  pp.  468  andff. 

*  Zur  iiordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur,  pp.  75,  82-3. 

e:*8  TJ 


290  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

been  left  blank.  The  remaining  pages  each  carry  four-  lines  of  writing.  The 
character  is  the  well-known  calligraphic  Upright  Gupta  of  Eastern  Turkestan. 
Before  the  opening  word  of  the  manuscript,  in  the  upper  left-hand  corner 
of  fol.  1,  there  is  a  small  coloured  figure  of  the  seated  Buddha  within  a  black 
line  circlet.^ 

Fols.  7  and  8  are  of  smaller  size,  and  measure  310  x  63  mm.  (or  12  X  2|  inches). 
Fol.  7  has  foui-  lines  of  writing  on  each  side,  fol.  8  four  on  the  obverse  and  two  on 
the  reverse.  The  alphabet  is  Cursive  Gupta.  There  cannot  be  any  doubt  that  these 
leaves  are  of  a  later  date  than  the  bulk  of  the  manuscript,  and  that  they  have  been 
substituted  for  older  leaves,  of  the  same  kind  as  the  remaining  ones.  It  would 
seem  that  the  original  fols.  7  and  8  had  become  damaged,  and  were  therefore  copied, 
in  another  script,  in  order  to  keep  the  manuscript  complete.  The  matter  contained 
in  the  first  three  lines  and  part  of  the  fourth  of  fol.  7  is  also  found  on  a  detached 
leaf,  marked  B  in  the  footnotes,  which  was  likewise  found  in  the  Tun-huang  caves. 
Fols.  7  and  8  are  not  therefore  the  only  attempt  at  filling  up  the  lacuna. 

That  fols.  7  and  8  are  later  copies  from  an  older  original  is  not  only  inferred 
from  the  difference  in  script  and  from  the  appearance  of  the  leaves.  It  also  follows 
from  the  fact  that  the  writer  has,  in  some  cases,  evidently  misread  his  original. 
Thus  he  has  confounded  an  and  dm.  Compare  samdmdafjaMa  instead  of  samavd- 
gatta,  i.  e.  samudgatta  in  the  first  line  of  fol.  7.  I  think  that  we  have  here  to 
do  with  simple  miswritings  and  not  with  phonetical  changes  as  suggested  by 
Professor  Pelliot.^ 

The  bulk  of  the  manuscript  is  evidently  itself  a  leaf  for  leaf  copy  of  an  older 
one.  This  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  the  writer  has  not  infrequently  had  to  fill 
up  vacant  space  at  the  end  of  a  folio.  This  he  has  done  by  means  of  superfluous 
dots  and  lines.  Thus  we  find  a  dot  at  the  end  of  fols.  4,  6,  10, 14, 15,  and  18 ;  two 
dots  and  a  double  vertical  line  at  the  end  of  fol.  3  ;  one  dot  followed  by  a  double 
line  at  the  end  of  fols.  11  and  13 ;  a  double  line  with  one  dot  on  each  side  at  the  end 
of  fol.  17,  and  the  same  signs  followed  by  a  double  line  and  a  dot  at  the  end  of  fols. 
9  and  16.  In  other  cases,  at  the  end  of  fols.  9,  11,  and  18,  the  writer  has  made  the 
intervals  between  the  letters  unusually  wide,  in  order  to  fill  up  the  empty  space. 
It  is  evident  that  the  copyist  has  endeavoured  to  arrange  that  each  folio  of  his 
transcript  should  begin  and   end  exactly  as  his  original.     He  has  also,  in  most 

^  The  colour  scheme  is:  vermiliou  on  upper  robe  and  nimbus;  light  green  on  lower 
robe,  lotus  seat,  and  aureola ;  dull  yellow  on  body,  and  blank  area  of  the  circlet ;  black  on 
hair  and  top-knot ;  also  black  outlines  of  aureola  and  lotus  seat ;  a  black  spot  on  forehead ; 
and  two  black  collars  on  the  breast. 

^  Un  fragment  du  Suvarnaprabhasasutra  en  iranien  oriental.  Etudes  linguistiques  sur 
ies  documents  de  la  mission  Pelliot,  Fasc.  FV,  Paris,  1913,  p.  19. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VEESION     291 

cases,  succeeded.  Only  once,  at  the  end  of  fol.  13,  in  a  formula  which  recurs 
so  many  times  that  it  must  have  become  quite  familiar,  one  aksara  has  been  added 
which  is  also  found  at  the  head  of  fol.  14.  In  this  case  there  is  consecpently  an 
overlapping. 

There  are  also  some  mistakes  which  are  due  to  careless  copying.  Thus  we  find 
sdmnd  instead  of  sauna,  para.  39  ;  bajdsnaili,  7,  hijcqnam,  9,  bajdma,  11,  instead  of 
iajdsana;  garnaih  instead  oi  gariina,  31.  All  this  points  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
manuscript  is  a  quite  mechanical  and  not  overcareful  copy.  In  this  connexion  we 
may  note  that  the  long  «  has  very  commonly  been  replaced  by  a  short  w.  Compare 
rrispura,  iai/sufia  vuysyau  in  para.  1,  and  so  forth.  It  seems  probable  that  the 
original  has  used  a  form  of  the  long  m  of  the  same  kind  as  that  occurring  in  the 
Vajracchedika  manuscript.^  It  is  however  also  possible  that  the  distinction  between 
long  and  short  ?«  had  become  less  marked.  In  my  transcript  I  have,  in  such  cases, 
added  the  sign  of  length  within  brackets  and  written  rrispura,  &c. 

Several  signs  of  interpunetion  occur  in  the  manuscript,  and  it  will  be  seen 
from  the  remarks  made  above  that  they  are  often  used  simply  to  fill  up  vacant  space. 
In  addition  to  the  instances  already  quoted  we  may  mention  the  dot  at  the  end 
of  a  line,  fol.  19  V  \  in  the  middle  of  a  line,  1  i\  7  a^ ;  before  the  circlet  of  the  string- 
hole,  16  a'"  ;  between  the  members  in  an  enumeration,  15  a",  and  before  the  word 
tadyathd  in  the  Dharani,  9  5"',  12  «"■,  and  14  I™-.  In  the  last  two  instances  the  dot 
can  of  course  also  be  considered  as  a  sign  of  interpunetion.  A  double  dot  is  used  to 
fill  up  space  at  the  end  of  a  line  in  7  ^'"  and  8  4'\  and  in  the  middle  of  a  line  in  8  i'. 
Usually,  however,  we  find  such  signs  used  at  the  end  of  a  sentence  or  pada.  Thus 
we  find  the  single  dot  used  in  this  way  in  paras.  1,  3,  6,  9,  18,  34,  37,  38,  39  ;  the 
double  dot  in  paras.  13,  14,  15,  16,  29,  32,  38,  39 ;  the  double  line  in  paras.  7,  8,  9, 
10,  11,  12,  17,  19,  21,  22,  23,  24,  25,  26,  27,  28,  30,  33,  36,  37,  and  40. 

The  edition  of  the  text  has  been  prepared  on  the  same  principles  as  in  the  case 
of  the  Vajracchedika.  Following  indications  in  the  manuscripts  of  the  Sanskrit 
version  I  have,  however,  divided  the  text  into  paragraphs.  The  numbering  of  these 
paragraphs  is  my  own. 

The  interpretation  of  the  text  is  based,  primarily,  on  a  comparison  of  the 
Sanskrit  original  and  the  Tibetan  translation.  In  order  to  make  this  comparison 
easier  I  have  also  subdivided  these  versions  into  paragraphs,  in  the  same  way  as  the 
Khotanese  text  and  with  the  same  numbering.  The  Khotanese  text  has  been 
printed  on  the  left-hand  pages,  and,  on  the  opposite  right-hand  pages,  will  be  found 
the  Sanskrit  and  Tibetan  versions,  so  an-anged  that  all  the  existing  versions  of  each 


See  above,  pp.  216-7. 

u  2 


292  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

paragraph  can  he  overlooked  at  a  glance.  A  tentative  English  translation  has 
been  added  under  the  Khotanese  text.  A  complete  analysis  of  the  latter  will  be 
found  in  the  combined  vocabulary  of  the  Vajracchedika  and  the  Aparimitayuh  Sutra, 
in  which  the  words  and  forms  taken  from  the  latter  have  been  distinguished  by  the 
addition  of  an  A. 


The  Sanskrit  Veesion. 

The  edition  of  the  Sanskrit  text  of  the  Aparimitayuh  Sutra  is  based  on  the 
following  manuscripts : 

£,  a  Nepalese  paper  manuscript  in  the  collection  of  the  Asiatic  Society  of 
Bengal,  numbered  No.  B,  38  by  Rajendralala  Mitra,  The  Sanskrit  Buddhist  Literature 
of  Nepal,  Calcutta  1882,  p.  41,  where  it  is  described  as  follows : 

'  Substance,  Nepalese  paper  of  a  yellow  colour,  7x3  inches.  Folia  32.  Lines 
on  each  page,  5.  Extent  in  Slokas,  190.  Character,  Newari.  Appearance,  old. 
Prose.    Generally  correct.' 

Begins  0/h  namali  mhiclAhdya  II.  Ends  Arya-Aparimitdyur  ndma  dhdrani 
mmupta. 

C^,  a  paper  manuscript,  belonging  to  the  Cambridge  University  Library.  See 
Cecil  Bendall,  Catalogue  of  the  Buddhist  Sanskiit  Manuscripts  in  the  University 
Library,  Cambridge.  Cambridge  1883,  p.  38,  Add.  1277,  where  we  find  the  following 
description  : 

'  Paper  (black,  with  gold  letters) ;  20  leaves  and  cover,  5  lines,  6  x  2|  in.  ; 
xviith-xviiith  cent.  On  leaf  1  there  is  an  elaborately-painted  picture  of 
a  Buddha  holding  a  flower  in  a  vase  on  his  clasped  hands.' 

Begins  Om  namali  sn-Arydvalokitek-aruija.  Ends  Arya-Apalmrfdyu  ndma 
clhdlam  mahdydnaSutram  samdptah. 

C^,  a  paper  manuscript  in  the  Cambridge  University  Library,  Add.  1385, 
described  by  Bendall,  p.  81,  as  follows  : 

'Paper;  17  leaves,  5  lines,  9|  x  3  in. ;  dated  N.  S.  779  (a.d.  1659).  The 
leaves  are  numbered  54-70.  The  work  stood  apparently  fifth,  from  the  No.  5  at 
the  beginning,  in  a  series.' 

Begins  Oih  uamo  bJiagavatyai  drya-drya-hi-Arydvalokitehardya  II  om  namali 
sarvabuddliahodhisatvebliyah.  Ends  Arya-Aparimitdyur  ndma  malidydnasutraTk  sam- 
dptath  II  Ye  dharind  hetiiprabhavd,  &c.  Il  sublia  mamgaram  bliavantu  II  mbha  II  savivat 
779  kdrttikamdse  mklapaksa  trayodasydn  titliau  Revatmaksatre  hiddldyoge  yatlid 
karnnamuliwUare  Yrliaspativdsare  tulyardsigate  savirttari  mmarailgate  candramasi  li 
etaddine  idani  irUfUrihhugavati  vasmhdlwrdyd  maiidroddhdrani  saptavdra  aparamitddi 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     293 

saiiipurnna  narocakdjuro  II.  MuJidnljadldrdja-m-m-rdjanljemlra-kavindra-jai/a  Pratd- 
pamaUadevaprahJiiithdkulasi/a  vijayardjya  II.  Then  after  various  minor  particulars 
lihliUeyam  Sauvarnnaprandrimahdnagare  Ma'dnpure  \  malidclhdrdvadldta  Vajrdcdrya 
Jinidevetieti  II  yddrsyam  ptistakaw  drstvd,  &c.  iuhlia  iiiamgaraM  bkavaniu  sarvvadd  \i 
iuhha  II  ye  dharma  hetuprahhavd,  &c.  hihha  2  ddnapatid  2  safuiiivai  785  vaiiakliahikla- 
purmiamdsi  kuiiku,  ddnapati  Borakhajindrlstitvarayd  daydni,  Sa^idevana  jhikhdcidhdyd- 
desasa  iri  3  vajdsana  aksbhliyetd. 

C^,  a  paper  manuscript  in  the  Cambridge  University  Library,  Add.  1623, 
described  by  Bendall,  p.  141,  as  follows : 

'  Black  paper  with  gold  letters  ;  100  leaves,  5  lines,  15f  x  4  in. ;  dated  N.  S. 
820  (a.  t).  1700).  This  MS.  is  in  three  parts,  written  by  the  same  scribe  and  con- 
tinuous numbering.  I.  Leaves  1-10  (formerly  marked  Add.  1622).  Aparimitayu- 
sutra.     The  text  is  equally  barbarous  with  that  of  Add.  1277.' 

Begins  Om,  namo  ratnatraydya.  Ends  Arya-ynahd-Apurimitdyu  ndma  makdydnasii- 
tram  mmdptah. 

These  four  manuscripts  have  been  copied  by  Dr.  Hoernle,  who  has  been  good 
enough  to  place  his  transcript  at  my  disposal. 

They  can  be  divided  into  two  classes,  one  represented  by  B  and  the  other  by 
the  Cambridge  manuscripts  C^,  C^,  and  C'\  They  differ  from  each  other  in 
numerous  places  ;  compare,  e.  g.,  the  variants  in  paragraphs  2,  3,  4,  6, 16, 17,  23,  24, 
26,  &c. 

If  we  turn  to  the  group  represented  by  the  Cambridge  manuscripts,  it  will  be 
seen  that  C^  and  C^  are  very  closely  related.  A  comparison  of  the  Apparatus 
Critieus  with  paragraphs  2,  3,  4,  6, 16, 17,  22,  26,  28,  30, 32,  &c.,  will  show  that  they 
often  agree  with  each  other  as  against  B,  C^,  and  also  that  they  have,  in  many  cases, 
common  mistakes.  If  we  compare  the  readings  C^  hlmto  \\  par  ltd  difi,  C^  bhuparist- 
yan  dUi  instead  of  uparistdydm,  para.  2,  it  seems  probable  that  C^  is  based  on  C^  and 
represents  an  attempt  at  correcting  the  latter.  A  comparison  of  C^  -saikbudd/idya, 
C"  -smhhuddMsya  instead  of  -sambuddhasya  in  para.  3  leads  to  the  same  result. 
Compare  also  C-'-  ddsyanti^  C^  ddsyamti  instead  of  ddsyati,  para.  28.  On  the  whole, 
C^  is  dependent  on  C^. 

It  follows  from  this  state  of  affairs  that  the  reading  of  B  will  have  to  be 
adopted  in  such  cases  where  it  agrees  with  any  of  the  manuscripts  of  the  other 
group.  In  other  cases,  where  the  two  groups  differ  from  each  other,  I  have  consulted 
the  Tibetan  translation,  which  can  be  considered  as  a  third  group.  I  have  then 
preferred  the  readings  of  B  if  they  agree  with  the  Tibetan  text,  and,  on  the  other 
hand,  I  have  followed  C  if  its  reading  is  in  accordance  with  the  Tibetan  version. 

The  Sanskrit  text  has  been  printed  in  the  form  which  can  be  derived  from  the 
materials  just  described.     I  have  added  a  full  Apparatus  Critieus  in  order  to  make 


294  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITAYUH   SUTEA 

it  superfluous  in  future  to  compare  the  manuscripts  of  this  dull  text.  The  only 
various  readings  whicli  I  have  not  noticed  are  evident  miswritings,  and  orthographic 
peculiarities  such  as  the  consistent  writing  mtva  and  the  common  doubling  of  con- 
sonants after  an  r. 


The  Tibetan  Translation. 

The  Sanskrit  text  is  the  basis  of  the  Tibetan  translation,  which  is  contained  in 
the  Kanjur,  where  it  exists  in  two  slightly  differing  recensions,  Rgyud  XIV,  200  b- 
208  b,  and  208  i-215  a  respectively.  My  quotations  are  taken  from  the  former  of 
these  two,  Rgyud  XIV,  pp.  200-208.  This  Tibetan  version  seems  to  have  been 
very  popular  in  Eastern  Turkestan,  and  Sir  Aurel  Stein  has  brought  home  several 
manuscripts  of  it.     My  edition  is  based  on  two  such  manuscripts. 

T^,  paper  manuscript  from  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  collection  ;  two  sheets,  measuring 
92  X  31  cm.  (or  35§  x  11|  inches).  Each  sheet  has  been  divided  into  four 
columns,  each  containing  18  lines  of  well-executed  writing,  except  the  last  column 
of  the  second  sheet,  which  has  only  seven  lines.  The  beginning  of  the  first  ten 
lines,  and  the  eight  last  lines  of  the  two  first  columns,  and  part  of  the  last  line  of 
the  third  column  are  missing.  Begins  . . .  ri  •  mi  •  ta-  a  •  yur  ■  na  ■  ma  •  ma-  lia  "ya-na  • 
su  •  tra  ....  du  •  myed  -pa  •  zes  •  tJieg  •  ]}a  •  clien  ■  ^ohi  •  mdo  II  sans  •  rgyas  •  dan  . .  .  t/iams  • 
chad  ■  Aphyar/  ■  ktslial  ■  lo.  Ends  TsJie  ■  djjag  ■  du  •  myed  ■  pahi  ■  ies  •  by  a  •  la  ■  fJieg  •  pa  •  clien  •polii  • 
mdo-rdzogs  •  so.  Bam  •  stag  •  slebs  ■  bris.  There  are  several  corrections  made  in  a  different 
handwriting,  in  red  pencil.  On  the  middle  of  the  last  page  there  is  a  whole  line 
in  red  pencil,  and  after  it,  in  a  later  handwriting,  a  repetition  of  the  passage  Tshe  • 

dpag  -did rdzogs ■  so.    The  back  of  the  manuscript  has  a  number  of  lines  in 

Cursive  Gupta.'- 

T^,  paper  manuscript  from  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  collection ;  one  folio,  measuring 
142  X  32  cm.  (55^  x  12^  inches),  and  divided  into  six  columns,  five  of  which 
contain  19  lines  of  well-executed  writing,  while  the  last  column  has  nine  detached 
lines.  Begins  Sgya  -gar  ■  skad  ■  du  -A  ■  pa  ■  ri  •  mi  •  ta\a  -yur  ■  na  ■  ma  -lia  ■  ya-  na  •  su  • 


^  These  lines,  very  coarsely  written,  parallel  to  the  narrow  side  of  the  sheet,  number 
about  twenty-five  on  the  first,  and  six  on  the  second  sheet.  They  are  divided  into  a  number 
of  paragrajshs,  each  beginning  a  fresh  line.  The  first  and  second  paragraphs  on  the  first 
sheet  commence  with  a  date.  The  former  has  maugsain  samlya  cvdmvajam  mdsta  ;  the 
latter  has  mauysarh  salya  kaji  mdsta  miysu  ttge  tam2>am  ....  Here  the  sheet  is  broken 
off.  The  two  dates  name  the  year  mauysa,  and  its  two  months  cvdvaja  and  kaja.  Cf. 
JRAS.,  1910,  pp.  469  ff.  In  addition  there  are  interspersed  some  lines  of  large  illegible 
scrawls.     There  is  also  half  a  column  of  four  very  large  Chinese  ideographs. 


WITH  SANSKKIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     295 

tra  II  Bod  ■  skad  •  (hi  •  Tslie  •  dpag  •  dn  •  myecl  •  pa  •  zes  •  hya  •  hah  •  theg  •  pa  -  chen  •  poUi  •  mdoli  I 
mm  •  rffj/as  ■  dan  I  bj/an  •  cuh  •  sems  ■  dpali  •  sems  •  dpah  •  thams  •  chad  •  la  •  phyag  •  Jitsal  •  lo. 
Ends  on  the  fourth  line  of  the  sixth  column  with  Tslie  •  dpag  •  dii  ■  myed  -pa  •  ies  •  bya  • 
ha '  tJieg  •2m  •  chen  •  pohi  •  mdo  •  rdzogs  •  so  II.  Then  follow,  in  two  lines  of  a  later  hand- 
writing-, the  Sanskrit  text  of  the  DharanT,  and,  after  an  interval,  the  half  line 
Hgo  ■  mdo  ■  hrtsan  ■  hrh  •  so.  Finally,  there  are  two  more  lines  in  a  later  handwriting, 
one  containing  an  invocation  of  Amitabha  in  barbaric  Saaskrit,  the  other  running 
Sin  •  dar  •  zus  \  ston  ■  ma  •  yan  •  siis  I  chos  •  hdun  •  sum  •  zitso  II.  The  chief  peculiarity  of 
T^  is  the  separating  off  of  the  last  of  two  finals ;  thus  san  •  s  instead  of  sans. 

The  two  manuscripts  agree  very  closely  with  each  other.  Both  omit  the 
paragraphs  numbered  8-11,  16,  19,  and  31.  Where  the  two  differ,  T^  has  on  the 
whole  the  better  reading. 

My  text  is  nothing  more  than  a  reproduction  of  the  manuscripts.  I  have 
not  mentioned  such  various  readings  in  T^  as  only  represent  orthographic  pecu- 
liarities, nor  have  I  made  any  attempt  at  bringing  the  writing  into  accord  with 
Standard  Tibetan.  Paragraphs  8-11,  16,  19,  31  which  are  missing  in  the  Turkestan 
manuscripts  have  been  copied  from  the  Kanjur.  The  same  is  the  case  with  some 
short  passages  and  single  words,  all  of  which  have  been  taken  from  the  Kanjur  and 
are  printed  within  square  brackets.  My  friend  Dr.  F.  W.  Thomas  has  given  me 
much  assistance  in  copying  these  passages.  When  necessary  they  have  been 
marked  K  in  the  footnotes. 

I  have  not  made  any  attempt  at  producing  a  critically  satisfactory  text  of  the 
Tibetan  version.  It  is  only  printed  as  a  help  for  the  interpretation  of  the  Khotanese 
translation.  Tibetan  scholars  will  not  experience  any  difficulty  on  account  of  the 
orthographic  peculiarities  of  the  Central  Asian  manuscripts. 


296  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 

[1  h^  Saddham  Ttatta  muhuiii-jsa  pytista  Sina  beda  gyasta  baysa 
Sravasta  asta  vye  Jiva  *  ^  rrispura  basa  Anathaiipindi  haru  saiiikhyerma 
dvasse  paiiijsa^aii  a^iryau-jsa  u  pharakyau  ^  baudhisatvyau  mistyau 
baysuna  vu^iysyau-jsa  hatsa  •  [1] 

Ttiiiabeda  mi  gyasta  baysa  Maiiijusri  eys[amnai]  gurste  u  ttai  pasti 
Sa  asca  ^  Mamjusrya  '^'sarbamda  halai  gunaaparamitta  saiiicaya  namma 
lovadava  ra  ttiiia  lovadeva  Aparamatta- 

[2  ai]  yujnanasuviniscittaraja  nariima  gyasta  baysa  asti  rrasta  tsuka 
klesjim  hatcanaka  rrasta  biysaiiida  bvau"mai  vara  ona  jsina  diysde  u  cida 
o  va  satvaiii  da  uysdise  [2] 

Translation. 

Hail.  Thus  it  was  heard  by  me.  At  one  time  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  was 
staj'ing  in  Sravastl^  in  the  grove  of  Jeta,  the  king-'s  son,  in  the  samgharama  of  the 
merchant  Anathapindika,  with  twelve  hundred  and  fifty  monks  and  many  bodhi- 
sattvas,  great  beings  of  exaltedness.    [1] 

At  that  time  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  called  prince  Maihjusri  and  spoke  to 
him  thus, 

There  is,  O  Mamjusri,  in  the  rising  direction,  a  world  called  Collection  of 
unmeasured  Virtues.  In  that  world  lives  a  Venerable  Exalted  One,  Aparimita- 
yujiianasu\'iniscitaraja  by  name,  who  wanders  rightly,  who  eradicates  the  Mesas,  who 
is  rightly  awake,  possessing  knowledge,  there  he  thus  leads  his  life,  conducts  it,  and 
preaches  the  law  to  the  beings.     [2] 


K.  ■'■  Wrong  sign  of  interpunetion. 

^  The  manuscript  has  pliardmjau  baudJiisatvan.  ^  Eead  astix. 


^  BC'^  hhagavam.  ^  MSS.  Srdvasyam. 

^  C^  AndiJiapimlasy-,  C^  AndrtJia-.  *  BC'''  -JaSaUii,  C^  -dam. 

^  C"  bJdksitsataisurddhaiiiarddliatrayodasai.  ^  MSS.  wahdgatrulh. 

'  B  b/iagavd.  ^  C^  -srli/am.  ^  C^-^  knmdla-,  C^-'^  -hliutom. 

10  Ci-2  Manjmn. 

ii   Qi  bhuio  \\  paritdd'dt,  C^  hhtj)amtyan  disi,  C'  uparutdn  d/.<ir. 

"■^  C-  Aj)an/i///d//if/?inasiai/tcai/o,  C'  AparimiidudishjiinamMcaijo. 

IS  C'^  -dhdtos,  C'  ^-diidtu.. 


WITH  SANSKKIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     297 

Sanskrit  Text. 

Evaiii  maya  ^rutain.  Ekasmin  samaye  Bhagavan^  Sravastyam^ 
viharati  sma  Jetavane  Anathapindadasy^«4rame  mahata  bhiksusaiiighena 
sardham  ardhatrayoda^abhir''  bhiksusataih'^  saiiibahulais  ca  bodhisattvair 
mahasattvaih'^  [1] 

Tatra  khalu  Bhagavan'  Manjusriyaiii^  kumarabbutam^  amantrayate 
sma.  Asti  Manjusrir"  uparistayam"  Aparimitagunasaiiicayo^^  nama 
lokadbatus/^  tatr<;Aparimit^yu[r]jnanasuvini^citatejoraja^'^  nama^^  tatha- 
gato  'rhan"  samyaksariibiiddha"  eva^**  hi  tistbati  dhriyate"  yapayati^" 
sattvanaiii  ca^'  dharmam  desayati.  [2] 


Tibetan  Version. 

Hdi  •  skad  =  bdag  •  gis  •  tbos  •  pa.  Dus  •  gcig  •  na  •  Bcom  •  Idan  •  hdas  • 
Mnau  •  du  •  yod  •  pa  •  na  -  Hdzeh  ■  tahi  ^  •  tsal  •  Mgon  •  myed  ■  zas  •  sbyin  •  kun  • 
dgahi  •  ra  ■  ba  •  na  ■  dge  •  sloii  •  gi  •  dge  ■  hdmi  •  chen  •  po  ■  dge  ■  sloii  •  brgya  • 
pbrag  •  pbyed  •  dan  •  bcu  •  gsuni  ■  dan  •  byaii  •  chub  •  sems  •  dpah  •  sems  • 
dpah  •  chen    po  •  rab  ■  dvi  •  mail  •  ba  •  dan  •  thabs  ■  gcig  •  du  ■  bzugs  •  so.    [1] 

De  ■  na  ■  Bcom  •  Idan  hdas  •  kyis  •  Hjam  •  dpal  •  gio  •  nur  •  gyurd  pa 
la-  •  bkah ■  stsald-pa/  -Hjam-dpal,-  steri  •  gi  phyogs  ■  na  •  hjig  •  rten  ■  kbams- 
yon  •  tan  ■  dpag  •  du  -  myed  pa  •  htshogs  ■  pa  *  •  zes  ■  bya  •  ba  ■  zig  yod  •  de  ■ 
de  -  na  •  de  ■  bzin  ■  gsegs  •  pa  •  dgra  •  bcom  ba  •  yah  •  dag  ■  par  •  rdzogs  pahi  • 
sans  •  rgyas  ■  Tshe  •  dan  ye  •  ses  •  dpag  •  du  ■  myed  pa  ■  ^in  ■  du  ruam  ■  par 
gdon  myi  ■  za  bahi  •  [gzi  brjid  kyi "']  ■  rgyal  •  po  ■  zes  bya  •  ba  ■  bzugs  • 
htsho  •  sons  ■  te    sems  ■  chan  ■  rnams  ■  la  ■  chos  •  kyah  •  stond    to.  [2] 

■'*  BC^'^  tatr-AjMri-,  C^  tair-Aparamrtayuli-  ;  B  -tejo,  C-'  -tejorajdi/a. 

15  C^-^  om.  ndma. 

1°  B  tathdgato  'rkat,  C'-'  tathagatdrhante,  Q-  tathdgatdijdrhanta. 

1''  C  -sanihuddho  vidi/dcaratia  (C  calana)  sawiyannali  sugato  lohavid  (C^  rokavid 
amittaraJi  (C^  -ra)  purimadasyagdrathih  (C^  -sarathih,  C^  -sdrathi)  idstd  (C^  sa,  C^  idsta 
devdndm  ca  manusyandm  ca  (C'^  om.  ca)  huddlio  bhagavdn  (C^  -vai'n). 

1^  B  eta,  C  evam.  ^^  C'  dhiyaie,  Q?  dhtyate,  C^  dliryante. 

2"  Cjdpayati.  ^^  B  om.  ca. 


T.  1  T^  mdze  ■  tahi.  ^  T^  gyur  ■  ba  ■  la.  ^  T^  here  has  a  lacuna. 

^  T^  hstsogs  -jia.  K  la  ■  sogs-  pa.  ^  This  word  is  omitted  in  T. 


298  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH    SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 

Pu  tta  vana  Maju^rya^  eysaiiina  Jami"bviya  bisa  satva  bihi 
guysga^-jsinya  ttadiyu  ssa-sa[l]i  jsina  •  Pharaka  jsam  tti  cii  akai'^la- 
maranyau-jsa  jsina  pa^ida  Kammii  mi  Majusrya^  si  i  cu  ttye  Apara- 
mittayujnanasuvini[2?)i]^catarajagyasta  baysa  hiya  bjajsa  birasaiiimatinai 
sutra  u  tva  da  hiya  dasa  piri  pari  pi"de  u  naiiimai  pvate  va^J  pustya 
tivi^ci  bi^i  dijsate  bunaspyau  bu^aiiau  graunyau  samkhalunyau-jsai 
i"pajsam  yani  ttye  mi  ja  staiima  jsina  paskyasta  ssa-sali  uskhariiysde  • 
Ttatta  mi  Mamju^ryam  kammii  '^'se  himate  cu  ttye  Aparimittayujnana- 
suvani^citaraja  gyasta  baysa  hiya  nama  ssa  ha- 

[3  ai]sta  juna  pvade  ttyaiii  mi  sa  jsina  byeha  bveha  uskhaysde  cu 

Translation. 
Now  listen,  prince  Mamjusn,  the  beings  wlio  live  here  in  Jambudvipa  are 
shortlived  ;  their  lifetime  is  a  hundred  years.  And  those  are  many  who  lose  their  life 
by  an  untimely  death.  Whoever  it  might  be,  0  Mamjusri,  who  would  write  or 
cause  to  be  written  the  sutra  expounding  the  merits  belonging  to  that  Venerable 
Exalted  One  Aparimitayujiaanasuviniseitaraja  and  the  treatise  connected  with  this 
law,  and  who  would  hear  its  name  and  read  it,  enter  it  in  a  book  and  keep  it  all, 
and  worship  it  with  incense  (?),  perfumes,  garlands,  and  aromatic  powders,  his  life 
will,  when  being  exhausted,  afterwards  increase  a  hundred  years.  Thus  also, 
O  Mamjusri,  whoever  it  might  be  who  would  hear  the  name  belonging  to  the 
Venerable  Exalted  Aparimitayujnanasuviniscitaraja,  one  hundred  and  eightfold,  their 


K.  ^  Read  Mamjiisri/a.  -  Perhaps  nmysya-. 


S.  ^^  Q?-  Mafijmrlyam.  ^^  Q}-"^  ImCiw^Q?  imcu'ii.  '^'^  Ti  manv-v/akri  ,0"^  tnanusydm. 

2^  C  alpdyiiso  (C-"-  -so)  varsamtdijuS  (C-*-  -yusas)  ca  hliavnyati  (C-  -st/niliti). 

^°  BC^  haliunij,  C-*-  lalnmdm,  C'"  baJmni. 

^''  C^  Miasm arandni,  C^  akdni-,  C^  naldni  maraud. 

^*  C  idrmni,  C^-^  niilr§tdui.  ^'  C  ye  ca  khalu imnah. 

30  C''  Maiijmriya  satvd.  ^^  C^-'*  om.  tasy. 

^^  BC^  Apari-,  C^  AjiaramrtdynsaJi,  C^  Pariwi-. 

33  C^  -kirtf.ano,  C-  -hrttanai'u,  C^  -hlrttamai'u. 

3*  B  ndmadhyeya-,  C^  ndmadJiyeyavrmantrani;  C^-^  ndmadhyaya-. 

^^^  C  Srosyanii  (C^  ilosyanti)  dJidrayisyanti  vdcayuyanti. 

^^  B  grhe  dJidrayisyanti  vdcayisyanti  paryyavdpsyanti  parehliyas  ca  ristdrena  saiii- 
yrakdsayanti,  C^-^  om.  vdcayiftyanii.  '^~  C  puspadJmjiadijM- . 

3*  C^  om.  -gandJia-.  ^^  C*  -vilepHa-,  C^  -rileimnaih-,  C"'  -vileiMnali-. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     299 

Sanskrit  Text. 
SrnuManjui^rih^^  kumarabhuta,  ime^^  Jambudvipaka  manusya^''  alpi- 
yuska^'  varsa^aUyusas  ;  tesaiii  babuny^"  akalamaranani"  nirdistani^^  Ye 
khalu^^  Manjusrih^"  sattvas  tasy^i<jAparimit^yusah^'  tathagatasya  guna- 
varnaparikirtana^^  nama  dharmaparyayam  likhisyanti  likhapayisyanti 
namadbeyamatram^*  api  ^rosyanti'^  yavat  pustakagatam  api  krtva  grbe^" 
dbarayisyanti  vacayisyanti  puspa-dhupa'^'-gandha^^-iiialya-vilepana^"- 
ciirna*''-clvara-ccbattra-dhvaja-gban.ta-patakabbi^*^  ca  samantat  pujabhih*^ 
pujayisyanti  te*^  parikslniyusah  punar  eva  varsasatayuso**  bhavisyanti.''^ 
Ye  khalu  punar*^  Manjusrih  sattvas*''  tasy''*!^Aparimitayurjnanasuvinisci- 
tatejorajasya*^  tathagatasya  namastdttarasatam^"  srosyanti  dbarayisyanti 
vacayisyanti,  tesam^^  Sijnr^''  vardhayisyati"  ;  ye  pariksin4yusah  sattva 

Tibetan  Version. 
Hjam  •  dpal  •  gio  ■  nur  •  gyurd  •  pa  •  non  ■  cig.    Hdzam  •  bn  ■  glih  •  hdihi  • 
[mi  •  mams  •  ni   tsbe  ■  thufi  •  ba  •  las  •  tsbe  •  lo  •  brgya  •  tbub  •  pa  •  sa  •  stag 
ste]  ^  ■  de  ■  dag  ■  las  •  kyari  ■  phal  ■  cher  •  dus  •  ma  •  yin  ■  bar  •  hcbi  ■  bar  brjod  • 
do.     Hjam  ■  dpal    sems  ■  cban  •  gari  •  do  ■  dag  ■  de  •  bzin  •  gsegs    pa  •  Tshe  • 
dpag  ■  du  •  myed  •  pa  •  dehi    yon  •  tan  •  dan  •  bstsags  •  pa    yens    su    brjod 
pa    zes    bya  •  bahi  •  chos  ■  kyi  •  rnam    grans  •  [yi    ger    hdriham    yi    ger]  ^ 
hdrir  •  hjug  ■  gam  •  [miri  •  tsam  •  yaii    iian  •  tam  ■  klog  •  pa  •  nas  •  glegs  •  bam  • 
la  -  bris  ■  te  •  khyim  •  na]  ^   hchaii  ■  nam  ^  •  klog  •  gam  ■  men   tog  •  dari  •  bdug 
pa  ■  dan    spos  •  dan    hphren    ba-  daii  •  pbye  *  •  ma  •  rnams  •  kyis  •  mchod  ■ 
par  •  hgyur  •  ba  •  de  •  dag  •  gi  •  tsbe  ■  yons  ■  su   zad   pa  •  las  •  tshe  ■  yari  ■  lo 
brgya  ■  thub  ■  par    hgyur  •  ro.     Hjam  •  dpal    sems  •  chan  •  gaii  "^  •  de  ■  dag  - 
de  ■  bzin  •  gsegs  •  pa  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  •  myed  ■  pa  •  sin  •  du  •  rnam  ■  par  •  gdon  • 

*^  B  -jMr/ma-.  *^   C^-^  -clhvajapatdkdhhih  gantahhih,  C"  -patdkoxlibhi. 

*^  C  om.  ca  mmanfM  jmjdhhih.  *^  Bye  instead  oite. 

**  BC-'-^  -mtdyusd.  *^  B  nti  instead  of  hhavuyanti. 

*"  C^  ye  ca  khalii,  C^  om.  ye  klialu  punar.  *'  C^  satvdstatvdstathds. 

**  B  tasydstapari-,  G^  tasydpali-. 

49  Q1.2  .fajnya  tatliagatdydrliante  samyaksaihlucldhdya  (C^  -ihlhdgya),  C"  -rdjasya 
tatJidgatasydrhata  samyaksaiiibiuldha^ya. 

^^  B  -astottara&ataihta,  C^  -adotemtam,  C^  -ddotlaratark,  C^  -dstoilaraili  satatam. 

51  C  tesdm  api.  °^  C^-^  dyii. 

5^  BC^  vardclAayisyanfi,  V/-^  rivardd/iayixyanti ;  C  om.  the  passage  after  vardJia- 
yisyafi. 

T.  ^  T^  «ems  •  chan  ■  rnam  •  ni  ■  is/ie  ■  tliuh  •  ha  •  Ulie  ■  lo  •  Irgya  -pa  •  ze  •  dag  •  stlie. 

2  The  words  within  brackets  are  missing  in  T. 

3  T^  begins  again  after  the  lacuna  with  nam.  *  T^  bye.  ^  T^  ^y««- 


300  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 
patca  bi^ta  ka  jya-jsinya  ide  u  tva  nammarii  dijsamde  "ttyaiii  patca  byeha 
byeha  jsina  uskhaysde  •  [3] 

Ttatta  mi  Maju^ryam^  cu  buysye  jslni  ayimamma  ksami  u  ham"ijse 
ha  yanave  bisivrrasai  au  bisivrrasaiiia  ttye  mi  Aparamittayujnanasuvini- 
i^^cittaragya  ^  jasta  baysa  hiya  ssa  hasta  junauma '  pvate  u  piri  pari  pide 
ttai  hava  anu[3  5i]samsa  himare  ii  [4] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamitayajnanasuvini^citatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya "  rhite  samyatsabuddbaya  tadyatba  aum  sarvasaiiiskarapari- 
^uddhadharmate  gganasmudgate  svabhavavisu'"ddhi  mabanayaparivare 
svaha  [5] 

Kamma  si  hamate  cu  ttye  gyasta  baysa  hiya  namma  hasta  juna  piri 
pari  i"^pide  ttye  jya  starhna  jsina  ssa-sali  paskyasta  nskhaysde  •  khu  jsa 
mara  ana  jsina  pass  ttye  Aparamitta- :  u  * 


Translation. 
life  would  increase  more  and  more  ;  and  again  on  death,  when  they  have  exhausted 
their  life  and  preserve  his  name,  their  life  would  again  increase  more  and  more.    [3] 

Thus,  O  Mamjusrl,  the  noble  son  or  daughter  of  a  clan  who  might  wish  for  the 
possession  of  long  life,  and  who  would  make  an  effort  and  hear  the  name  of  the 
Venerable  Exalted  Aparimitayujiianasuviniscitaraja  one  hundred  and  eightfold, 
and  write  it  or  cause  it  to  be  written,  to  him  would  thus  excellency  and  blessing 
accrue.     [4] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord,  the  sovereign  of  endless  life,  knowledge,  and  unfailing 
glory,  the  tathagata,  the  arhat,  the  perfect  Buddha;  thus.  Hail  to  the  possession 
of  a  nature  purified  by  all  embellishments^,  rising  in  the  sky,  the  naturally  pure, 
surrounded  by  great  wisdom,  blessing.     [5] 

Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write  or  cause  to  be  written  the  name  belong- 
ing to  that  Venerable  Exalted  One  eightfold,  his  life  will,  when  being  exhausted, 
afterwards  increase  a  hundred  years ;    and  when  he  being  here  gives  up  life,  he  will 

K.  1  Read  Mni'iijusrya.  ^  Read  -raja  gyasta.  ''  'Ke&A.juna  ndma. 

*  Superfluous  signs  of  interpunction  at  the  end  of  the  folio. 


^^  B  om.  apy. 

^^  B  mvarddhaylsyaiiti.  ^^  MSS.  cUrghdyuskdndiU. 

^''  B  prdrtJiayitumkdtm,  C^  prdrtliayisyati  II  kumd,  C'  -kdmd. 

«8  (y--^  °putro.  «"  C  °duhitd.  ™  B  om.  tasy ;  Q?--^  ta»ydm. 

"'   BC^  Apan-,  (y-  Apariinitdyiix. 

^^  C^  stottarakdaiu  ndmaili,  C''  xtottarandmaudak. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VEESION     301 

Sanskrit  Text. 
namadheyam    srosyanti   dharayisyanti   vacayisyanti    tesam  apy^*   ayur 
vivardhayisyati/^  [3] 

Tasmat  tarln  Manjusrir  dirgh^yuskatvam'^^  prirthayitukamah" 
kulaputra^*  va  kuladuhitaro'^^  va  tasy''"^ Aparimitayusas "  tathagatasya 
namist6ttara^atam*^  Srosyanti  likliisyanti  likhapayisyanti'^^  tesam  ime 
gun^nusaiiisa  bhavisyanti.  [4] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate"'*  AparimMyurjnanasuvini^citatejorajaya 
tathagatay^^rhate  samyaksambuddhaya,  tadyatha,  om  punyamahapunya- 
aparimitapunyaaparimit4yupunyajnanasambhar6pacite,''*  oiii  sarvasaiii- 
skaraparisaddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavapari^uddhe'"^  maha- 
nayaparivare  svaha."^  [5] 

Imam^^ManjuMstathagatasyanam^stottarasatamyekecillikhisyanti 
likhapayisyanti  pustakagatam  *='  api  krtva  grhe  '"'  dharayisyanti  vacayis- 
yanti, te  pariksiniyusah"  punar  eva   varsasatayuso''-  bhavisyanti;    ita^ 

Tibetan  Version. 
myi  •  zahi  ■  rgyal  •  pohi  ■  mtshan  •  [brgya  ■  rtsa  •  brgyad   thos  •  par]  ^  ■  hdzin  • 
par  •  hgyur  •  ba  ■  de  ■  dag    gi  •  tshe  •  yah    hphel  ■  bar  •  hgyur  •  ro.  [3] 

Hjam  •  dpal  ■  de  •  Ita  •  bas  •  na   rigs  •  kyi    bu  •  ham  ■  rigs  ■  kyi   bu  ■  mo  • 
tshe  ■  rih  •  bar  ■  hdod  •  pas  •  de  •  bzin  ■  g^egs  •  pa  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  •  myed  ■  pa  ■ 
dehi   mtshan  •  brgya  •  rtsa  •  brgyad  ■  iiian   tarn  •  [yi  •  ger]  ^    hdri-  ham  •  [yi 
ger]  ^  •  hdrir  •  bcug •  na  •  de  •  dag  •  gi  •  yon  tan  •  dan  ■  legs  •  pa  ■  ni  ■  hdi  •  dag  ■  go.  [4] 

Tadtyatha  •  na-mo  ■  baga-  bate  A-  pa-rimitaayu  •  gna  •  na  •  su  • 
bi-nisci-tara-dzaya  •  ta-  thagataya  •  om  •  sarbasahska-  ra-pa-  ri 
sud  ■  dha  •  dar  •  ma  •  te  ■  ma  •  ha  •  na  •  ya  •  pa  •  ri  •  ba  •  re  •  sva  ■  hah.  [5] 

Hjam  •  dpal  ■  shags  •  kyi  •  tshig  ^  hdi  ■  dag  •  gah  la  •  la  ■  zig  •  [yi  ■  ger]  ^  • 
hdri  ■  ham  •  [yiger]  -hdrir  -hjug  •  gam  •  glegs  bam  •  la  bris  •  te  •  khyim  ■  na  •  hchah- 
[ham  •  klog  •  par ■  hgyur  •]  ^ba  •  dehi  ^  •  tshe  ■  zad  •  pa  •  las  kyah •  lo  *  •  brgya  •  thub  • 

^3  B  dlidfayhyanti  vacayisyanti  instead  of  likki^yanti  Hkhdjoayisyanti. 

**  C^  hhagavalyai.  ^^  B  -aparimitapunyaaparimitajmnyajnana-. 

^^  B  -visudMa,  C^ -vihidd/ie.  ^''  After  svdkd  B  adds  lOSw  d/id,  i.e.  d/idram. 

^^  B  imdni,  C  imam,  C^  idath. 

s'  B  pustakaliMiitdm.  ^^  C^-^  grhe  krtvd,  C^  om.  krtvd. 

'1  C^  parimitdyusah.  ''^  B  -hfdyusd,  C^  punar  evayu  vivarddhayuyanti. 


T.  ^  The  words  within  brackets  are  missing-  in  T. 

^  K  has  de  •  hiln  •  gkgs  •  paid  •  mtshan  ■  brgya  •  rtsa  •  brgyad  •  po  instead  of  shags  ■ 
kyi  •  tshig. 

^  T^  de.  *  T^  has  here  a  lacuna  down  to  mdo  in  para.  7. 


302  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITAYUH   SUTEA 

Khotanese  Version. 

[4  fti]  yujiianasuvini^citaraja  gyasta  baysa  buddhaksetra  guna- 
aparamittasaihcaya  lovadeta  ysatha  na"ste  [6] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujiianasuvmi^cittatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gaya  rhatte  sami"myatsabuddhaya  tadyatha  avim  sarvasamskarapari- 
suddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavii'^^uddhe  mahanayaparivare 
svaha  ii  Tti  va  ttiila  beda  nau-vara-nau  nayutta  gyasta  baysa  hamye 
aysmu[4  ?)i]-na  hamye  bajasnam  ttu  Aparamittayusuttra  hvaiiida  [7] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvinii'scitatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rhite  samyatsabuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskarapari- 
'"suddhadharmate  gaganasamudgatte  ^vabhavavi^uddhe  mahanaya- 
parivare svaha  Tti  va  patca  ttina  i"^beda  tcihaura-hasta  nayutta  gyasta 
baysa  hamye  aysmu-na  hamye  bijasa-na  ttu  A-  • ' 

[5  «^]  paramittayusuttra  hvariida  ii  [8] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuviniscitatejaurajaya  ^  tatha- 
"gataya   rhate   sarhmyasaiiibuddhaya    tadyatha   aum    sarvasaskarapari- 

Teanslation. 
obtain  rebirth  in  the  buddhafield  of  the  Venerable  Exalted  Aparimitaynjnanasuvi- 
niseitaraja,  in  the  world  Collection  of  unmeasured  Virtues.     [6] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  And  then,  at  that  time,  ninety-nine 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayusutra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [7] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  And  then,  at  that  time,  eighty-four 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayusutra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [8] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \eic.,  as  para.  5].    And  then,  at  that  time,  seventy-seven 


K.  1  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  the  end  of  the  folio. 
^  The  jd  of  rdjuya  has  been  added  under  the  line. 


S.  7:!  BC^  catvd,  0^-3  caivuro.  ^4  g  .ksatra^  C^  -hatra,  C^-S  -kmtre. 

''■''  C'-  upadijante,  C^-^  vpapachjate. 

'"'  B  om.  the  words  ajiorhn'ddpmi — lokadMkiu,  and  adds  II 1  II  after  upapadijaute  ; 
C^  apaUiiiii(ji/7ixya  and  om.  en,  C'^ aparimitd^u-i ca,  C^  om.  aparimltdijvHoA  ca  hJiaiixi/Hidi. 
'"  C^  a imiuirta(j ana stai'iicayo,  C^  samcaijdinydhi,  C^  aparimitdyvgvnasafncaydyam. 
'*  EC-'-  omit  the  whole  para. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     303 

Sanskrit  Text. 
cutva"  Aparimitayusas  tathagatasyabuddhaksetre'*  upapadyante,''  apari- 
mit^yusas'"'  ca  bhavisyanti  Aparimitagunasamcaye"  lokadhatau.  [6] 

■'^  Om  namo  bhagavate  {etc.,  as  para.  5].  Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 
navanavatinarii  buddhakotinam"  ekamaten#aikasvarena  idam  Aparimi- 
t^yuhsntram  ^«  bhasitam.  [7] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  jjara.  5].  Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 
caturasitinam  buddhakotinam  ^^  ekamaten<=aikasvarena  *^  idam  Aparimi- 
tayuhsutraiii  ^^  bhasitam.^*  [8] 

^'Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].     Tena  khalu  punah  sama- 


TiBETAN  Version. 
bar  •  hgyurd  ■  te  •  de    nas  ■  si  ■  hphos  •  nas  •  de  •  bzin  •  gsegs  •  pa  •  Tshe  •  dpag  • 
du  •  myed  •  pahi  ■  sans  ■  rgyas  •  kyi  •  zih  •  hjig-  rten  •  gyi   khams  •  yon  •  tan  ■ 
dpag  •  du  •  myed    pa  •  stsogs  •  pa  ■  skye  •  bar  •  hgyur  •  ro.  [6] 

Na  ■  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Yan  ■  dehi  ■  tshe  ■  sans  •  rgyas  • 
bye  •  ba  phrag  •  dgu  •  bcu  ■  rtsa  •  dgus  •  dgohs  •  pa  •  gcig  •  dan  •  dbyans  •  gcig  • 
gis  •  Tshe  ■  dpag  •  du  •  myed   pahi  •  mdo  '  ■  hdi  •  gsuiis  •  so.  [7] 

^Na-  mo  •  ba-  gaba-te[e^c.,flsprt?'o.  5].  Yan  dehi -tshe  sans  rgyas  • 
bye  •  ba  •  phrag  •  brgyad  •  cu  •  rtsa  •  bzis  ■  dgons  •  pa  •  gcig  ■  dan  dbyans  • 
gcig    gis  ■  Tshe    dpag  •  tu  ■  med  ■  pahi  •  mdo  •  sde  •  hdi  ■  gsuris  •  so.  [8] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  ■  ga  ■  ba  •  te  [etc.,   as  p>ara.  5].     Yah  •  dehi  •  tshe  •  sans  • 

''  C^  -koliiidi'ii  ekametennaika-,  C"'  -koUndm  ekamatemaika-. 

*"  C^-^  AjMi'imitdyusutram. 

^1  C'  here  and  in  the  following  kotinavim. 

^^  B  ekamatainaikasvaro,  C^  i/akamyatenaikasvalena,  C^  ekameten-. 

^^  MSS.  Aparitnitdi/umtram. 

**  B  adds  II  2  II  after  the  para.  ^^  C^  omits  the  whole  para. 


T'  recommences  with  mdo.  ^  T^  om.  paras.  8-11,  T^  paras.  8-12. 


30i  KHOTANESE   APAKIMITAYUH   SUTEA 

Khotanese  Version. 
!§uddhadharmate  gaganasamudga™te   svabhavavi^uddhe    mahanayapara- 
vare  svaha  ii  Tti  va  patca  ttina  beda  hau-para-hauda  nayui"^tta  gyasta 
baysa    hamye    aysmu-na    hamye     bijasnaiii     ttu     Aparamitayusuttra 
hvaiiida  •  [9] 

Namau  bbagavate  Aparami[5  ?)i]ttaynjnanasuvini^cittatejaurajaya 
tathagataya  rhite  sarhmyatsambudhaya  tadyatha  aum  sai'vaiisamskara- 
parisuddhadharmette  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavi^uddhe  mahanaya- 
parivare  svaba  ii  Tti  va  ^  i"patca  ttina  bida  s-para-ksasta  nayuta  gyasta 
baysa  hamye  aysmu-na  hamye  bajasa-na  ttu  Aparai'^mittayusuttra 
hvaiiida  ii  [10] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvini^citatejaurajaya  ta- 

[6  a']  thagataya  rhate  samyasaihbuddhaya  tadyatha  au  sarvasaih- 
skaraparif^uddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhaiivavi^uddhe  maha- 
nayaparevare  svaha  ii  Tti  va  patca  ttiiia  beda  s-para-paiiijsasa  nayutta 
gyastaiii  baysa  hai"mye  aysmu-na  hamye  bajasna  ttu  Aparamittayusuttra 
hvamda  [11] 

Naraau  bhagavate  Aparamittaytf''jnanasuvini^citatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya rhete  samyatsabuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasam[6  5i]skaram- 
pari^uddbadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavi^uddhe  mahaiiayapari- 
vare  svaha  1 1  Tti  ^'  il  patca  ttina  "  beda  s-para-tcahausa  nayutta  gyasta 

Translation. 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayusutra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [9] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \eto.,  as  para.  5].  And  then,  at  that  time,  sixty-six 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayusutra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [10] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [e/e.,  as  para.  5].  And  then,  at  that  time,  fifty-six 
myriads  of  ^^enerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayusutra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [11] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \_etc.,  as  para.  5].     And  then,  at  that  time,  forty-six 


K.  1  The  manuscript  has  7id. 


**  C^  "kothwi'itm. 

*'  B  ekanaikasvarem ,  C^  ekamyaieiialkaxvalena,  C^  ekametenaikasvarena. 

*"  C^  ApaUmik'njusutram ,  C^  Apurimifdi/umtmih. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     306 

Sanskrit  Text. 
yena  saptasaptatinaih   buddhakotinam  ^^  ekamaten<=aikasvarena "   idam 
AparimitS.yuhsutram  ^^  bhasitam.*'*  [9] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Tena  kbalu  punah  samayena 
pancasastlnam  buddhakotinam  ekamaten^^aikasvarena  idam  Aparimit4- 
yuhsutrarii  bhasitam.^"  [10] 

Orii  namo  bhagavate  [c^c. ,  as i^ara.  5].  Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 
pancapancaj^atinam  "  buddhakotinam  ekamaten^aikasvarena  idam  Apari- 
mit^yuhsiitrarii  bhasitam."^  [11] 

^^Orii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  asjoara.  5].  Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 


Tibetan  Veesion. 
rgyas  ■  bye  ■  ba  •  phrag   bdun  ■  cu    rtsa  ■  bdun  •  gyis  -  dgoris  ■  pa  •  gcig  •  dan  • 
dbyafis-gcig  •  gis  •  Tshe  •  dpag  ■  tu  ■  med  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  sde  •  hdi  •  gsuris  •  so.  [9] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  aspara.  5].  Yan  ■  dehi  •  tshe -sans -rgyas  • 
byeba-  jjhrag-  drug-  cu-  rtsa-liias  ■  dgoris  •  pa -gcig -dan- dbyaiis- gcig -gis- 
Tshe  •  dpag  •  tu  •  med  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  sde  •  hdi  •  gsuiis  •  so.  [10] 

Na-mo  •  ba  •  ga  'ba  ■iQ,[etc.,  asj^ara.  5].    Yah  ■  dei  •  tshe  •  sahs-rgyas- 
bye  •  ba  •  phrag  •  Ina  ■  bcu  •  rtsa   Irias  •  dgons  •  pa  -  gcig  •  dan  ■  dbyans  •  gcig 
gis  •  Tshe  •  dpag    tu  -  med  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  sde  •  hdi  •  gsuns  •  so.  [11] 

Na  -  mo  •  ba  -  ga-  ba  ■  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].   Yan  •  dehi  -  tshe  •  sans  •  rgyas  • 

*^  B  adds  II  3  ll  after  the  pava. 

^°  B  adds  II  4  II  after  the  para. 

'1  B  jjamcapamcdMind)'//,  C  pamcaxastindm,  G^  pamcasafdndtk,  C  pamncasatdndm. 

^-  B  adds  II  5  II  after  the  para.  ^^  C^  omits  the  whole  para. 

678  X 


306  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH    SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 
baysa     hamye    aysmu-na    hamye    bijasa-na    ttu     Aparimita^^iyusuttra 
hvamda  ii  [12] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujiianasuviniscitatejaurajaya  tatha- 
i^gataya  rhite  samyatsambuddhaya  tadyatha  anm  sarvasamskariparisvid- 
dhadharmate  gaganasa  •  -^ 

^  [7  ft^]  samaiiidagatta  •  '  subhavavasiide  *  mahaniyaparivare  '^ 
svaha  :  Tti  va  patca "  s-piira-baista '  nayu"tta  jasta  ^  beysa  hariamye 
aysmu-na''  hamye ^°  bijasna^^  ttu  Aparamittayasuttra^^  hvamda  :  [14] 

Namau^^bhagavatte  Aparami"mittayujnamnanasuvanaiscittattejam- 
rajaya  ^*  ttathagataya  ^^  rahette  samyasabaudhaya  "  ttadyetha 
^■''auma  sarvasaskaripa^umdedarmatte  '^'  gaganesamamdagatta  subha- 
va^ude    mahaniyaparvare    [7  5^]    svaha  :  Tti    va    patca "    Gaga   naya 

Teanslation. 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayustitra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [12] 

[Para.  13  is  missing  in  the  Khotanese  text.] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  And  then,  at  that  time,  twenty-six 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  recited  the  Aparimitayustitra,  with  united  mind 
and  united  voice.     [14] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \etc.,  as  para.  5].     And  then,  at  that  time,  as  many 


K.  ^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  folio. 

^  Eols.  7  and  8  have  been  written  in  Cursive  Gupta  ;  cf.  p.  290.  The  text  of  7  a 
so  far  as  (/aganasamatkda,  7  a",  is  also  found  in  another  cursive  fragment,  which  has 
been  marked  B,  while  the  readings  of  the  principal  manuscript  have  been  dis- 
tinguished as  A.  ^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  ;  B  samddagdtta. 

*  B  adds  superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

°  A  perhaps  -paravare ;  B  -parii  and  omits  vare.  "^  Read  patca. 

''  The  manuscripts  have  sparatcabaista,  but  tea  has  been  cancelled  in  both ; 
read  sparalistd  ;  B  adds  superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

^  ^jastam;  Te&d  ffyasta  fmysa.  ^  K.  aysnmm-jsa. 

'^'^  B  hammye.  ■'■'  Read  hijdsa-iia. 

''  B  aparamatdydsuitra  ;  read  Aparamitdyusuitra  //vdmdd.  ^'  B  namdiii. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     307 

Sanskrit  Text, 
pancacatvaririii^atinam  °*    buddhakotinam    ekamaten^aikasvarena     idam 
Aparimit^yuhsutram  bhasitam.^^  [12] 

Orii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  ])ara.  5].  Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 
sattrim^atinarh  ^^  buddhakotinam  ekamaten^aikasvarena  idam  Aparimi- 
t^yuhsutraiii  bhasitam.^"'  [13] 

Orii  namo  bhagavate  \_etc.,  as  para-  5].  Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 
pancavimsatinam "'  buddhakotinam  ekamaten^aikasvarena  idam  Apari- 
mit^yuhsutram  bhasitam."^  [14] 

Orii  namo  bhagavate  \_etc.,  asjyara.  5].    Tena  khalu  punah  samayena 


Tibetan  Version. 
bye  •  ba  •  phrag  ■  bzi  •  bcu  •  rtsa  •  Inas  •  dgoris  •  pa  •  gcig  •  dan  •  dbyans  ■  gcig  • 
gis  •  Tshe  •  dpag    du  •  myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  gsuris  •  so.  [12] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  ixm-a.  5].  Yaii  •  dehi  •  tshe  •  saris  • 
rgyas  ■  by e  •  ba  •  phrag  •  sum  •  cu  •  rtsa  •  dru  g  •  gis  ■  dgoris  •  pa  •  gcig  •  daii  •  dbyaris  • 
gcig  ■  gis  •  Tshe  •  dpag  ■  du  •  myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  gsuris  •  so.  [13] 

Na  ■  mo  •  ba  •  ga  ba  -  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Yari  •  dehi  •  tshe  •  saris  • 
rgyas  •  bye  •  ba  •  phrag  •  iii  ■  su  •  rtsa  •  Irias  •  dgoris  •  pa  •  gcig  •  dari  •  dbyaris  • 
gcig  ■  gis  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  •  myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  gsuris-so.  [14] 

Na  •  mo  ■  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc. ,  as  para.  5].    Yari  •  dehi  •  tshe  •  sans  •  rgyas  • 

1^  B  aparanUtdj/ii'iujndnasuranaucattattejdyardjdya. 

^^  A  Uathdgittdyil.  i"  A  adds  sign  of  interpunction  ;  B  saiimycl-. 

1'  B  sarvasdsMrapasucledarma  a  gaganasamdmda. 

1*  Read  patcti  Gamga-ndya  griiicyaiisye-jsa  hamamgi  gi/asta  laym  liamye  aysmu-jsa 
liamye  hijdm-na  ttu  Aparimitdyusuttrii  hvdmda. 

S.  '*  B  catvarimmtdndili,  C^  pmicarasatmdih,  C^  piamncasatindm  luddJiakotiiidm. 
^5  B  adds  II  6  il  after  the  para. 

'"'  B  mdvh'idatlndm,  C^  saHlsatindih,  C^  mttrimSattndth,  QP'  mxiisatindm. 
^'  B  adds  II  7  II  after  the  para.,  and  then  repeats  the  whole  para,  and  adds  II  8  II. 
'*  'B  pamcaviMatimdih,  C^-^  pa?hcavimmiindm. 
8"  B  adds  II  9  II  after  the  para. 

x2 


308  KHOTANESE  APAEIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 
gritcesye-jsa  hamagi  nayutta  jasta  beysaih  hamye  aysmti-jsa  ha"hamye 
bijasna  ttti  Aparamittayasuttra  livada  [15] 

Namam  bhagavatte  Aparamittayujnanasuvanaii"^cattatejaya 
ttathagattaya  rahetta  samyasabaudhaya  ttadyetha  auma  savaskara- 
pa^ude  :  i'^dharmatta  gaganasamamdagatta  subhavava^ude  mahani- 
yaparvare  svaha  : 

[8  a^]  Kariima  sa  hamave  cil  ^  ttu  Aparamittayasuttra  ^  piri  ttye 
ja  staraoa  jsina  sa^-sali  paskyasta  ukha"ysde*  :  [16] 

Namarii  bliagavatta  Aparimittayajfiamnasuvanaiscattattejaya 
rajaya  ttathagattayu  "'rahette  samyasabaudhaya  ttadyetha  auma 
saskarapasudedarmatte  gaganasaminamdagattatta  subhava^^va^tide 
mahaniyaparvare  svaha  [8  W]  Kauma  °  sa  hamave  tea  ttti  Apara- 
mattayasuttra  piye  :  sa  naryajsavena  na  brriyva  "na  ttraisuna  na 
hastva  ahaksa  : — 

[9  ai]  nva  ra  ysanitha  ni  byehe  nai  na  vara  haiiigujsa  hame  auda 

Translation. 

myriads  of  Exalted  Venerable  Ones  as  the  sands  of  the  river  Ganges  recited  the 
Aparimitayusutra,  with  united  mind  and  united  voice.     [15] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].'  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  his  life  will,  when  being  exhausted,  afterwards  increase  up 
to  a  hundred  years.     [16] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  he  would  not  take  rebirth  in  the  hells,  not  among  the  ghosts, 
not  among  animals,  not  in  the  eight  aksanas,  he  would  not  transmigrate  anywhere  ; 


K.  1  Read  ci.  ^  Read  AparamitCi y nsMtrfX. 

^  Read  sa-salt.  *  Read  ushhaysde. 

°  Read  Kama  sa  himale  cm  ttu  Aparimildyuiuttra plr'i  sci  nil  naryajsaicifui  nii prlyva 
na  irlyasuha  ;  superfluous  signs  of  interpnnction  after  p^ye,  and  at  end  of  line. 


S.  ""  Bdasa-Gamga-.  "^  B  adds  II 10  II  after  the  para. 

"2  S  ye,Q,^-'^yah. 

103  Q\  Apalimrtdyv ^utra7h  Ihdsitaih.,  C^  Aparimitdyusutram  bkdsitani. 
^"^  C  likhisyanti  likhdpaybyantl. 
^"^  B  gatdyusd  varsdsatdyusd,  C^  varsasatdyu,  C^  varsamtdyus  ca,  C  varsasatdyu 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     309 

Sanskrit  Text. 
Gafiganadivaluk6pamanam  ""     buddhakotinam     ekamaten  « aikasvarena 
idam  Aparimitayuhsutram  bhasitam."^  [15] 

Orh  namo  bhagavate  \_etc.,  as  jpara.  5].  Ya^"'*  idam  AparimMyuh- 
sutram  "^  likhisyati  likhapayisyati  "*  sa  gatayur  api  varsa^ataynr  '"* 
bhavisyati  ^f"'  punar  ev^tlyur  vivardhayisyati.^*"  [16] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  \_etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya  idam  Aparimitayuh- 
sutram "^  hkhisyati  likhapayisyati  sa  na  kadacin  iiarakes«1ipapadyate  "' 
na  tiryagyonau  "°  na  yamaloke  na  aksanesu  "^  ca  "^  kadacid  api  upapat- 


TiBETAN  Version. 
bye  •  ba  •  phrag  •  Gah  •  gahi  •  ^  kluh-  gi  •  by e  •  ma  •  sned  •  kyis  •  dgoiis  •  pa  •  gcig  • 
dan  •  dbyaiis  ■  gcig  •  gis  -Tshe  •  dpag •  du-  myed •  pahi  •  mdo  -lidi •  gsuhs  ■  so.    [1 5] 

^  Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Gafi  •  zig  ■  Tshe  •  dpag  •  tu  • 
med  •  pai  •  mdo  •  sde  ■  hdi  •  yi  •  ger  ■  hdri  •  ham  •  yiger  •  hdrir  •  hjug  ■  na  •  de  • 
tshe  •  zad  •  pa  las  •  tshe  •  lo  •  brgya  •  thub  •  par  •  hgyur  •  te  •  tshe  •  yari  ■  rnam  • 
par  ■  hphel  •  bar  •  hgyur.  [16] 

Na-mo-ba-ga-ba-te  [efc.,  as  jjara.  5].  Gah  •  zig  Tshe  •  dpag  ■  du  • 
myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  ^  [yi  ■  ger  •  hdri  •  ham  •  yi  •  ger]  •  hdrir  •  bcug  •  na  •  de  • 
sem s  •  chan  •  dmyal  ■  ba  •  dan  •  byol  •  soil  •  gi  •  skye  •  gnas  •  dai)  •  Gsin  ■  rjehi  ■  hjig  • 

106  BC"'-^  bhavuyanti,  C^  hhavanti. 

1°'  B  OTSxiis  punar — vivardhayisyati  ;  (y-  piinalapidyuvivudhayiHyanti,  Q,'-^  punar 
evdyu  vivardhayhyanti.     B  adds  II 11  II  after  the  para. 

108  Q1.2  .gjiifam  hliantam.  ^"^  B  -fupapadyaiite,  C^-"  i-upapadyate. 

11"  C^  -yoni,  C^'^  -yoni.  ^  Instead  of  na  ah^anem,  which  is  omitted  in 

C,  B  reads  na  cahu  i  sayepattau.  "^  B  na  instead  of  ca,  C^  ca  sa. 

T.  1  K  has  klun  ■  bcui. 

^  Paragraph  16  is  missing  in  T,  which  here  inserts  the  passage  repeated  below 
in  para.  18.  ^  The  words  within  brackets  are  missing  in  T. 


310  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITAYUH  StJTEA 

Khotanese  Veesion. 
ustamamjsye  tea  cibure  usta  haca  ysyate  jasmaiira  hame  piruyai  ysaiiitha 
bi^a  byata  himare  n  [17] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuviniiii^citattejaurajaya 
tathagattaya  rhite  samyatsambuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskara- 
parii'^^uddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabbavavi^uddhe  raahana- 
yaparivare  svaha  Kaiii  si  hamate  cu  [9  ¥]  ttu  Aparamettaiiiyusumtra  piri 
ttye  tcahaura-hasta  ysara  skandba  baysaiii  da  bisa  pida  pachiysde  •  [18] 

Namau  bha"gavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvini^citateiaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rhete  samyatsabuddhai"ya  •  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskara- 
pari^uddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavisuddhe  maha^'^^naya- 
paravari  svaha  ii  Earn  si  himate  cu  ttu  Aparamatta-  •  ii  •  ii  •  ^ 

[10  fti]  yusutra  piri  ttye  paiiijsa  anamttanarya  kira  vasusida  ii  [20] 
Namau  bhagavate  Aparamitayujnamnasuvini^cita^tejaurajaya  tatha- 

Translation. 
and  as  many  lives  as  one  lives  up  to  the  last  one,  one  will  be  '  birth-remembering ', 
all  his  previous  births  will  be  remembered.     [17] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [eic,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  mig-ht  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  by  him  the  law  of  the  Buddhas  consisting  of  eighty-four 
thousand  skandha  would  be  completely  written.     [18] 


[Para.  19  is  missing  in  the  Khotanese  text.] 


Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5],  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  for  him  the  five  acts  that  bring  about  endless  hells  become 
purified.     [20] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \ete.,  as  para.  5].    Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 

K.  1  Superfluous  signs  to  fill  up  space  at  end  of  page. 

S.  ■'■'■^  B  pratilapsyante,  C^  upasyate,  C^  upaparsyate. 

■^■'*  "S)  yatra  ya  jatmani  janmaiiy,  C-^  atmani,  QP--^  janmani. 

^^'  B  upapadyante,  C^  upadyate,  C^-^  utpadyaie. 

1^°  C'-^  om.  tatra  tatra.  ii''  B  om.  sarvatra  jdtau. 

11^  '&  jdtissard,  C'  jdtism.ards  ca,  C^  jdtismara. 

119  -QQ2.i  b/iavisyanti,  C^  bhavanti.     B  adds  II 12  II  after  the  para. 

120  ]3Q2  yg^  Q1.3  ^^/,_  121  Qi  ApalimHdyusufram  bhdsitam. 


WITH  SANSKKIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     311 

Sanskrit  Text. 
syate  "s.     Yatra  yatra  janmany  "*  upapadyate  "',  tatra  tatra  ""^  sarvatra 
jatau"' jatau  jatismaro"^  bbavisyati.i"  [17] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  imra.  5].  Ya  ^"^^  idain  Aparimit^yuh- 
sutram ^^i  likhisyati  likhapayis}ati  tena ^^^  catura^itidharmaskandhasa- 
hasrani  likhapitani  "=>  bhavisyanti.i^"'  [18] 

Om  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya^^'*  idam  Aparimit^yuh- 
sutrarh  likhisyati  likhapayisyati  tena^^"  catnra^itidharmarajikasahasrani 
liarapitani  127  pratisthapitani  bhavisyanti.i^^  [19] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya  ^^^  idam  Aparimitayuh- 
sutrarh  likhisyati  likhapayisyati  tasya  panc«4nantaryani "°  karm^va- 
ranani  pariksayam  "'  gacchanti.^^^  [20] 


Tibetan  Version. 
rten  •  du  •  nam  •  yati  •  ^  skye  ■  bar  •  myi  -  hgyur  ■  te  •  nam  •  du  ■  hah  •  myi  • 
khom  •  bar  •  skye  •  bar  •  myi   hgyurd  ■  to  •  gah  ■  dan    gan  •  du  •  skye  •  ba 
thams  •  chad  •  du  •  skye  •  ba  •  dran  ■  bar  •  hgyur-ro.    [17] 

Na  •  mo  ■  ba  ■  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  aspara.  5].  Gan  •  la  •  la  •  zig  -Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  ■ 
myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  ^  [yi-  ger  •  hdri  •  ham  ■  yiger]  •  hdrir  •  bcug  •  na  •  des  •  chos  • 
kyi ■  phuh •  po •  stoii •  phrag •  brgyadcurtsa-bzihdrir-bcug-par-hgyur-ro.  [1 8] 

2  Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].     Gan  •  zig  ■  Tshe  •  dpag 
tu  •  med  ■  pahi  •  mdo  •  sde  •  hdi  •  yi  •  ger  •  hdri  ■  am  •  yi  •  ger  •  hdrir  •  hjug  • 
na  •  de  ■  chos  •  kyi  •  phuri  •  po  •  brgyad  •  khri  ■  bzi  •  stoh    byed  •  du  •  bcug  • 
pa  •  dan  •  rab  •  tu  •  gnas  •  par  ■  byas  •  pa  •  yin  ■  no.   [19] 

Na  •  mo  ■  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Gan  -  zig  ^  •  Tshe  •  dpag  • 
du  •  myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi-2[yi  •  ger  •  hdri  ■  ham  •  ji  ■  ger]  -hdrir  •  bcug  ■  na  • 
dehi  •  mtshams  •  rayed  •  pa  •  Iria  •  yoris  •  su  •  byah    bar  •  hgyur  •  ro.  [20] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].    Gan  •  zig  ^    Tshe  •  dpag  • 

122  C^  te.  123  Q'^-'^  likhdinfdni  inalisptdjntdni,  C^Ukhdjntdjiratisthdpita. 

12*  B  bhavanti  II 13  II  C^  repeats  the  whole  passage.  12=  B  ye,  C  yah. 

12"  C^  te.  12''  Ci  kaldpitani,  &  kaldpitdni  and  omits  prati-. 

128  B  bhavanti  II  14  II.  12«  C  yah. 

130  Y>  pamcdnarydni  karmdcaranaid,  C^-'^ pamcdnantaryydni  karmdni,  OP- pamcdnan- 
tarydni.  I'l  C^  ksapagam.  i'2  B  adds  II 15  11  after  the  para. 

T.  1  Ti  has  here  a  lacuna  from  skye  down  to  (jan  ■  du  in  para.  17. 

2  The  bracketed  words,  as  well  as  the  whole  of  paragraph  19,  are  omitted  in  T. 
^  T2  gan-gi. 


312  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 
gataya  rliite  samyatsambuddhaya  tadya  aum  sarvasamskaraparisuddha- 
dharmate  "igaganasamudgate  svabhavivi^uddhe  mahanayaparivare  svaha  ii 
Kam  si  bimate  cu  ttu  Apa^'rami  ^  ttu  Aparamittayusuttra  pire  sai  khvai 
ttye  Sumira  gara  mase  basde  ide  garkbye  bisi  vasusida  [10  fci]  ii  [21] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuviniscitatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rhite  samyatsambuddha^iya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasaiiiskarapari- 
suddbadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavisauddhe  mahanai"ya- 
parivare  svaha  n  Kailima  se  bimate  cu  ttu  Aptiramettayusuttra  piri 
ttye  na  Mara  ni  ma^Mna  bina  raksaysa-prritta-mahairdyaiii  astaiima  vasu 
nara  na  satva  bidasta  akalamaraiii  •  ^ 

[11  fti]  vaski  bidasta  vamnlba  ni  byebida  ii  [22] 

Namau  bhagavate  AparimettayujiianasuviniBcitatejaurajaya  "tatha- 
gataya  rhite  sammyatsarhbuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskarapari- 
^uddhadbarmate  ganiganasainu"idgate  svabhavavi^uddhe  mahanaya- 
parivare svaha  ii  Kam  id  [hi]mate'  cu  ttu  Aparamittayusuttra  pi^^rlkhu 
si  jsina  pa^e  maranakali  ha  nau-vara-nau  nayutta  gyasta  baysa  pichasta 
dyamma  nijsaninare[ll  ?)i]ysari  jsaiii  gyasta  baysa  dasta-na  biysarhjare 

Translation. 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  his  sins  will  all  get  thoroughly  purified,  even  if  they  are  as 
great  as  mount  Meru.     [21] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [eic,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  against  him  neither  Mara,  nor  the  army  of  Mara,  nor  the  evil 
beings  such  as  Raksasas,  pretas,  and  those  possessing  great  magical  power  will  get 
any  opportunity  to  bring  about  untimely  death  (?).     [22] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [^eic,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  when  he  gives  up  life,  at  the  time  of  death,  ninety-nine 
myriads  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  individually  present  themselves  to  his  eyes,  and 
thousands  of  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  support  him  by  their  hands  ;  being  in  this 


K.  ■■■  Cancel  the  superfluous  tiu  apara/z/i. 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunetion.  ^  The  manuscript  has  i/idfe. 


S.    "3  c^aA.  13*  C  om.  tasi/a. 

1^^  B  ward,  C^  rnd/o  da,  C^  vidro  vd,  C^  mdlo  vd,  and  om.  ua. 

ISO  Qi  pialakdm,  C^  malaka,  C^  mdlakdyikd. 

13'  C-"-  nakdramrtupadrard,  C  nakdlamrl-j/upad ravd . 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     313 
Sanskrit  Text. 
[Para.  21  is  missing  in  the  Sanskrit  text.] 


Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya'^^  idam  AparimitS,yuh- 
sntrarh  likhisvati  likhapayisyati,  tasya"*  na  maro"^  na  marakayika  "^ 
na  yaksa  na  raksasa  n^akalamrtyur  ^'^  avatararii  lapsyante."^  [22] 


Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  an  para.  5].  Ya""  idam  Aparimitayuh- 
sutrarii  hkhisyati  likhapayisyati,  tasya  maranakalasamaye  navanavatayo 
buddhakotyah ""  sariimukharh  darsanam  dasyauti  ^*\  buddhasahasram 
hastena  i*^    hastaiii  "^    tasy«6panamayanti,    buddhaksetrad  "^    buddha- 

TlBETAN    YeKSION. 

du-myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi-  ^  [yi  •  ger-  hdri-ham •  yi  •  ger]  •  hdrir  -bcug  •  na-dehi  • 
sdig  •  gi  •  phuh  ■  po  •  Ri  •  rab  •  tsam  •  yafi  ■  yohs  ■  su-  byan  •  bar  •  hgyur  •  ro.  [21] 

Na  ■  mo  ■  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  'par a.  5].  Gah  •  zig  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  • 
myed.  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  ^  [yi  •  ger  •  hdri  •  ham  •  yi •  ger]  •  hdrir  ■  bcug  •  na  •  de  • 
la  •  i[bdud  •  dan]  •  bdud  •  kyi  •  ris  •  kyi  •  Iha  •  dan  gnod  •  sbyin  •  dan  ■  srin  • 
po  •  glags    bltas  •  kyah  ■  glags  •  rfied  •  par    myi  ■  hgyur  •  ro.  [22] 

Na  •  mo  ■  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  p)ara.  5].  Gati  •  zig  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du • 
myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  ^  [yi  •  ger  •  hdri  •  ham  ■  yi  ■  ger]  •  hdrir  •  bcug  •  na-dehi  • 
hchi-bai-dus-kyi-tshe-sahs-rgyas-bye-ba-phrag-dgu-bcu  •  rtsa  ■  dgus  •  mhon  • 
du  •  ston  ■  bar  •  mdzad  •  de-  sans  -  rgyas  -  stori  -gis  -  de  •  la  -  phvag-bi-gyah  -  bar  • 

128  B  adds  II 16  II  after  the  pava. 

"9  C  yah.  ""  C2  -kottvam,  C^  -kotyam.  "i  B  syanti. 

1*^  C  om.  ha-dena.  i*^  C  hadan,  C''  stdm  tathdgatdm  ;  C^  hastan. 

1**  C^  om.  hwddhahetrdd,  C^-^  buddhaksatrd. 


T.  ^  The  words  within  brackets  are  omitted  in  T. 


3,14  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITAYUH   SUTEA 

Khotanese  Version. 
ttina  buddhaksettra  staiiinai  adana  buddhaksettra  bayida  na  iimi  ttye 
vira  sinaubja  a  asadina  tcera  napamdai  ttatta  ii  [23] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnaiiinasuvini^citatejorajaya  tatba- 
gataya  rbite  samyatsambuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sa^^rvasaitiskarapari- 
^uddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavisuddhe  mabana-  •  ii  ^ 

[12  ai]  yaparivare  svaba  li  Kaiii  si  himate  cu  ttu  Aparamittayu- 
suttra  piri  ttye  tcabauru  lokapala  kusta  "tsi  ni  masi  tsiuiimamda  himare 
cu  bura  atva^te  vasu  debisi  janida  aysdai  yanare  a  [24] 

Namau  bhaiiigavate  AparamittayujiianasuviniBcitatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rbate  samyasami'^'buddhaya  •  tadyatha  aum  sarvasaiiiskarapari- 
suddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavisuddhe  maha[12  5i]naya- 
parivare  svaha  ii  Kam  se  ^  hamate  cu  ttu  Aparamittayusuttra  pire  khu 
si  jsina  pase  Suha^valovadeta  Armayasta  baysa  buddhaksettra  ysatha 
naste  ii  [25] 

Namau  bhagavatte  Aparamittayu"ij nanaca ^suviniscitatejaurajaya 
tathagataya  rhate  samyasambuddhaya  tadyatha  atf'^m  sarvasaskara- 
parasuddhadharmate  gaiiiganasamudgate  svabhavisuddhe  mahanaya- 
parivare  svalia  Kana 

Translation. 
buddhafield  they  take  him  to  another  biiddhafield ;  about  that  there  should  not  be 
entertained  any  doubt  or  disbelief,  as  it  is  known  (?)  in  that  v/aj.     [33] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [eic,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  wi-ite 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  after  him  the  four  lokapalas  will  follow,  where  he  might 
wander,  and  give  him  protection  against  all  the  evil  .  .  .  who  hurt  him.     [24] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \etc.,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  might  be  who  would  write 
the  Aparimitayusutra,  when  he  quits  life,  he  obtains  rebirth  in  the  region  Sukhavati, 
in  the  buddhafield  of  the  Exalted  Amitabha.     [25] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \_etc.,  as  para.  5].    That  country  in  which  they  thus  write 

K.   ^   Superfluous  signs  of  interpunction  at  end  of  page. 

^  Se  has  been  added  in  a  later  handwriting  under  the  line. 
^  The  cu  in  -jmiia-ca-w-  appears  to  have  been  cancelled. 


S.   1*5  C2-3  bmhlhahsatraw. 

140  Q1.3  gDayai'it  .wi'jt{C^  sa)kmnn'<i/anit ,  C-  svayam  kram'mjanti. 

■1*^  B  om.  na  rinikitsd  na.     C  vkikisd,  C''  cikitsd. 

'*''  C'-^  vimalivc'ida,  C^  vixdnirvvdda.  ^^^  B  adds  II 17  II  after  the  para. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     315 

Sanskrit  Text. 
ksetram  "^  samkramanti "» ;  iK^Mra  kafiksa  na  vicikitsa  na  '*'  vim^tir  ^" 
titpadayitavya.!"  [23] 

^°"  Oiii  namo  bliagavate  \_etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya  idam  Apariniitayuh- 
sutraiii  likhisyati  likhapayisj^ati,  tasya  catvaro  niaharajanah  prsthatah 
])rsthatah  samanubaddha  raks^varanaguptim  karisyanti.'"  [24] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya  ^''^  idam  Aparimitayuh- 
aUtraiii  likhisyati  likhapayisyati  sa  Sukhavatyaiii  lokadhatav  "^  Amita- 
bhasya  tathagatasya  buddhaksetre  ^^*  tipapadyate."^  [25] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Yasmin  prthiviprade^e  ^^^ 
idam  Apariniitayuhsutraiii"''  likhisyanti  hkhapayisj-anti,  sa^^^  prthivipra 


Tibetan  Yeesion. 
hgyur  •  ro  •  sans  •  rgyas  •  kyi  •  iifi-nas-sans  -rgyas-kyi-zin-du-hgro-bar-mdzad- 
par  •  hgyur  ■  te  •  hdi  ■  la-the  •  tsom  •  dan  ■  som  •  ni •  dan -yid-gnis-ma-za-sig.  [23] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Gah  •  zig  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  da  • 
myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  ^  [yi  •  ger  ■  hdri  ham  •  yi  •  ger]  •  hdrir  •  bcug  •  na  ■ 
rgyal  •  po  •  chen  •  po  •  bzi  •  dehi  •  phyi  •  bzin  •  hbrah  ■  zih  •  bsruh  •  ba  •  dan  • 
bskyab  •  pa  •  dan  •  sbed  •  pa  •  byed  •  par    hgyur  •  ro.  [24] 

Na  •  mo  ■  ba  •  ga  -ba  •  te  [etc,  as  para.  5].  Gah  •  zig  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  • 
myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  •  hdi  •  ^  [yi  •  ger  •  hdri  •  ham  ■  yi  •  ger]  •  hdrir  •  bcug  ■  na  • 
de  •  de  •  bzin  ■  g^egs  •  pahi  •  Hod  •  dpag  •  du  ■  myed  •  pahi  •  sans  •  rg  vas  ■  kyi  • 
zih  -'ajig  •  rten  •  gyi  •  khams  •  ^Bde  •  ba  •  can  •  du  •  skye  •  bar  •  hgyur  •  ro.  [25] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Sa  •  phyogs  •  su  •  dkon  •  mchog  ■ 
mdo  •  sde  •  hdi  •  hdrir-  bar  •  hgyur  ■  bahi  •  sa  •  phyogs  •  de  •  yah  •  mchod  •  rten  • 

15°  C  omits  this  para.  ^^^  B  °gupt.i  karii^yanti  II  18  II. 

1^''  C  yah.  ^^^  B  lokacHdto,  C^  lokadhat,  C^  lokadhatum;  C  places 

upapadyate  after  loka-.  i^*  C^-'  -kmtre. 

165  Q2  repeats  the  whole  passage  down  to  lokadhatav  ujMpadyate  ;  B  adds  II 19  II 
after  the  para.  ■'°°  B  prade^e,  C^-^  prfJiivipradeiya. 

15'  C^  Aparimitdyusutram  ratnarcijaili,  C^  AparimUdyusutram  hhdsitarh  ratna. 

158  Q1.2  ^^  f,g^  Qz  mrva. 


T.  1  The  words  within  brackets  are  omitted  in  T.  '  T^  Ide-can-du. 


316  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanesb  Version. 

[13  a^]  disifia  ona  ttu  Aparamittayusutra  piride  si  di^  caittya 
mamnada  hime  aurgaviya  tti  khu  sai  daiiivau-muiirarii  astamna  triya- 
sunaiii  gvamna  his!  tti  patca  harbi^a  iiapamdai  plrmattama  baysiista 
busta  hi^iimare  ii  [26] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujiianasuvaniscitejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rhi^'^te  sammyatsambuddhaya  •  tadyatha  aum  sarvasaiiiskara- 
parisuddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavi^u[13Z)i]ddhe  maha- 
nayaparivare  svaha  ii  Kaiiima  patca  se  hiinate  cu  ttu  Aparamittayu- 
stittra  pari  pide  si  pyaiitsasta  staina  ttaradara  ni  byehe  ii  [27] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvini^cittatejaura"ijaya 
tathagataya  rhite  samyatsariibuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskara- 
pari^uddhadharma^"^te  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavlsuddhe  mahanaya- 
paravare  svaha  ii  Kaiiima  patca  si  hi-  •  ii  " 

[14  oi]  hamate  cuttye  Aparamittayusutra  udisaya  tanka  masi  haura 

Translation. 
the  Aparimitayusufcra,  that  country  would  become  worthy  of  worship  like  a  caitya; 
and  even  if  it  were  to  be  sounded  into  the  ears  of  animals,  such  as  deer  and  birds, 
then  all  those  would  become  enlightened  in  the  highest  enlightenment  which  is 
known  (?).     [26] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  And  whoever  it  might  be  who  would 
cause  the  Aparimitayusutra  to  be  written,  he  would  never  in  future  obtain  an 
existence  as  a  woman.     [27]. 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  tn-  para.  5].  And  whoever  it  might  be  who 
would  make  a  gift  as  great  as  a  farthing  on  account  of  the  Aparimitayusutra,  by 


K.  ^  Superfluous  signs  of  interpunction  at  end  of  page.     Read  Aimdte  instead  of 
Ai/iamclfe. 


S.  ^^'^  C^  pithipade^ya  ;  C^  prthivipradese,  C^  pjrtliiviprailesya. 

1"°  C  vandamyai  ca  (Q?  here  adds  hliavuyaid'i)  pradakmiiyai  (C^  -niyai)  capuja- 
nlyai  ca  hliavisyanii. 

'^^'^  C^  ilryyagyogatdndm.  ^"^  B  mrgapaksidrastrindi'u. 

1^^  C  api  yadi  karnnapute  sanvd  (C^  sahda,  C^  yatra  sarva)  nipatar'nti  (C^  nipatis- 
yanti,  C"  nipaiite)  sarvva  adhovaHtikd  (C''  adhevatiiko)  bhavisyanti  anuttardydm, 

1G4  BC1.3  samyaksambodhim,  and  omit  ab/iisarhbodhim. 


WITH  SANSKKIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     317 

Sanskrit  Text. 
de^ah^'^s  caityabliuto  vandaniyas  ca  bhavisyati."''     Yesaiii  tiryagyoni- 
gatanam"'!  mrgapaksinam '"^  karnapute  ^'^^  nipatisyati  te  sarve  anutta- 
rayaiii  samyaksambodhav  abhisaihbodbim  ^^^  abhisambhotsyante.^'^^  [26] 

Oih  namo  bhagavate  \_etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya^""  idam  Aparimitayuh- 
sutram  likhisyati  likhapayisyati  tasya  stribhavo^"  na  kadacid  api 
bhavisyati.^8  [27] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Ya  ^°'  idam  Aparimitayuh- 
sutrarh    dharmaparyayam ""  uddisya   ekam  api   karsapanaiii "'   danaiii 


Tibetan   Version. 
du  •  hgyur  •  te  •  phyag  •  hts[h]al  •  bar  •  hgyur  ■  ro  •  gal  •  te  •  byol  •  son  •  gi  •  skye  • 
gnas  •  su  •  son  •  bya  •  dan  •  ri  •  dags  •  gan  •  dag  •  gi  •  rna  •  lam  •  du  •  sgra  •  grags  ■ 
par  •  hgyur  •  ba  ■  de  •  dag  •  thams  •  chad  •  bla  -na-myed-pa-yan-dag-par-rdzogs  • 
pahi -byan •  cub •  du  •  rnnon  •  bar  ■  rdzogs  •  par-htshaii-rgya-bar-hgyur-ro.  [26] 

Na  ■  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Gan  •  zig  •  Tshe  •  dpag  • 
du  •  myed  •  pahi  ■  mdo  •  hdi  •  ^  [yi  ■  ger  ■  hdri  •  ham  •  yi  •  ger]  •  hdrir  •  bcug  •  na  • 
de  ■  bud  •  med  •  gyi  •  dfios  •  por  •  nam  •  du  •  yan  •  myi    hgyur  •  ro.  [27] 

Na  •  mo -ba-ga-ba-te  [eic,  as  jjara.  5].  Gaii-la -la -zig -chos -kyi  • 
rnam  •  gratis  •  hdihi  •  phyir  •  kar  •  sa  •  pa  •  ni  •  hgah  ■  zig  ■  sbyin  •  ba  •  byin    na  • 

1^5  B  atismnlMtsyante,  Q}  ahhimmhuddhyate ,  C^  abkimmbotsyate.  C-^  abhisambhot- 
syate  ;  B  adds  1 1  20  II  after  the  para.  ^^'^  C  yah. 

1^''  C^  tribhdve,  C^  stdsrdbhdvo,  C^  strlbhdvi. 

168  '2,  pratilapsate  II  21  II.  C  adds  omnamo  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Yah  idaw  Apari. 
likJii.  likhdp.  tasya  na  kaddcid  ddvidrabhdvo  (C^  drdvidrabhdva)  bhavisyati  (C^-' 
bhavisyanti). 

i''^  C  yah.  '^'"'  B  -sutram  ratnardjam  dharmmaparydyam. 

I'l  B  kdsdyenain,  C^  kdthdnO,  C^  kdmyanan,  C^  kdkhdyanam. 


T.  *  The  words  within  brackets  are  omitted  in  T. 


318  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTEA 

Khotanese  Version. 
liauri  ttye  bisa  ttrrisahasrya  mahasa"hasrye  lovada  haudyau  ramnyau 
hambada  ona  haura  hauda  hitni  ii  [28] 

Namau  bhagavatte  Aparamitta"iyujnanasuvini^citatejaurajaya 
tathagataya  rhite  saiiimyatsabuddhaya  •  tadyatha  i'^'aum  sarvasaiiiskara- 
parisuddhadbarmate  gaganasamudgate  svabbavavisuddhe  mabanaya- 
parivare[l4:  bi]svaba  Kamma  si  bimate  cu  ttye  Aparamittayusuttra 
bhajaQibhuta  pajsarh  yani  ttye  bi^a  abari"na  baysam  da  pajsamevye 
hime  :  [29] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvini^cittate"ijaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya rbete  samyatsambuddhaya  •  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskarapai'^'ri- 
suddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabbavavisuddhe  mabanayaparavare 
svaha  ii  Si  mi  ttatta  khu  '^ 

[15  ai]  VipaSa  gyasta  baysa  Sikba  gyasta  baysS  Visvambha  gyasta 
baysa  Krrakasuda  gyasta  baysa  Kanakamuna  "gyasta  baysa  •  KaSava 
gyasta  baysa  •  Sakyamuna  gyasta  baysa  astamna  gyastam  baysau  ^ 
haudyaih   ramnyau-"ijsa   pamjsa    yani   ttye    bamada   puninai   hambisa 

Translation. 
him  gifts  would  thus  have  been  given  to  the  extent  of  filling  the  world  of  the 
whole  trisahasri  mahasahasri  with  the  seven  treasures.     [28] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [eic,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  it  might  be  who,  having 
become  a  receptacle  of  the  Aparimitayusutra,  would  do  worship,  by  him  the  whole 
entire  law  of  the  Exalted  Ones  would  have  been  honoured.     [29] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \_e(o.,  as  para.  5].  It  is  as  if  he  would  do  homage  with 
the  seven  treasures  to  the  Venerable  Exalted  Ones,  the  Venerable  Exalted  Vipasyin, 
the  Venerable  Exalted  Sikhin,  the  Venerable  Exalted  Visvambhu,  the  Venerable 
Exalted  Krakucchanda,  the  Venerable  Exalted  Kanakamuni,  the  Venerable  Exalted 
Kasyapa,  the  Venerable  Exalted  Sakyamuni,  and  so  forth,  his  store  of  merit  could  at 

K.  1  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction. 

^  Read  haysai'n  haudyau  ramnyau-jsa  pajsam. 


S.  -"^  C^  ddsyanti,  C^  ddsymhii. 

1"  B  -mahdsuJiasre-,  BC^  -dhdtii,  C^-^  -dJidtau. 

-'"''  B  -ratnamayipanpurnam. 

^'^  B  dadyds,  Q}  dartta  bliavanti,  C^  dartta  hharafi,  C^  dattam  Ihavisyanti  ;  B 
adds  tasya  punyaskaindhasya  ]}ramdiuim  mkyam  ganayitum  na  tv  Aparimitdyuhsutrasya 
punyaskandhasya  jnamdnam  saJcyaih  (janayifum  II  22  II. 

^'"'  C  yah  idai'ii  Apari.-  saskrte  (C^  saskrtya)  pujayisyanti  (C^  pujayisyati). 

^"  B  -samdptam,  C^  -mvvdpta,  C--"  -samdpfa. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     319 

Sanskrit  Text. 
dasyati "-,  tena  trisahasramaliasahasralokadhatum  *"  saptaratnaparipur- 
narii  "*  krtva  danaiii  dattam  bhavati.""  [28] 

Orii  namo  bliagavate  [etc.,  as  ^ara.  5].  Ya^'"'  idarii  dhannabhanakarh 
pujayisyati,  tena  sakalasatnaptah  "'  saddharmah  i"  pujito  bhavati.^"  [29] 

Orii  namo  bhagavate  [e^c,  as  jjara.  5].  Yatha  Vipasvi-Sikbi-Visva- 
bhu^*°-  Krakucchanda  -  Kanakamuni  -  Ka^yapa  -  Sakyamuni'"-  prabbrti- 
nami'^2  tathagatanam  i**''  saptaratnamayah  ^'^  pujah"^  krtva  ^^Hasya"' 


Tibetan  Version. 
des  •  stori  •  gsum  ■  gyi  ■  stori  •  chen  •  pohi  •  hjig  •  rten  ■  gyi  •  khams  •  rin  ■  po  •  che  • 
sna  ■  bdun  •  gyis  •  yons •  su  •  bkan  •  ste  •  sbyin  •  ba  •  byin  •  bar  ■  hgyur  •  ro.  [28] 

Na-mo-ba-ga-ba-te  [e^c,  as  j^ara.  5].  Gari  •  la-la-zig-chos  ■  kyi  • 
rnam  •  grans  ■  hdi  •  la  •  mchod  •  pa  ■  byed  •  par  •  bgyur  •  ba  •  des  ■  dam  •  pahi  •  chos  • 
mthah  •  dag  •  chub  •  par  •  mchod  •  par  •  hgyur  •  ro.  [29] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  ga  •  ba  te  [etc.,  as  jxtra.  5].  Hdi  ■  Ita  •  ste  ■  de  •  bzin  • 
gsegs  •  pa  -Rnam  •  par  •  gzigs  •  pa  ■  daii  •  Gtsug  •  tor  •  dan  •  Thams  •  chad  •  skyob  • 
dan  •  Log  •  par  ■  dad  •  stel  •  dan  •  Gser  •  thub  •  dan  •  Hod  •  sruii  •  dan  ■  Sag  •  kya  • 
thub  •  pa  •  la  •  stsogs  ■  pa  •  la  •  rin  •  po  •  che  ■  sna  •  bdun  •  gyis  •  mchod  •  pa  •  rnams  • 

1'^  B  gaddharma,  C^  sad/iama,  C^  sarvvad/iannddharmem,  C '  sarvadharma. 

178  '&  jmjita  bJtavauti  II  23  II,  Q}-"^  jmjitam  bhavnyamti,  C^  jjujai/itam  hliavuyati. 

180  5  -Viwantava-,  C-'  -Tisvabhuk-. 

181  (y-'^  -Sakyaswika,  Q,'^  -Sruakyamunis.  i*^  Q  om.  2JrabhHindili. 
^*3  C  tathdgatas  tesafii  tathdfiatdtidih  ;  B  taiMgatdndm  samyaksantbuddhdya. 

^'*  C^  saptaratnaparipurnnam  api^  C^  saptaratnamapipnrnnam,  C^  saptaratnapari- 
pumnamayam.  ■'*'  ^  pujdydh,  Q,  pujatii. 

180  B  krtvds,  C-  krtvd  ryddat,  C^  krLvd  yavan,  C^  krlvd  rydvat,  read  kurydt  (?). 
^*^  C^  taaya  pwjdyd  punyaskandJiasya. 


320  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 
pamaka   hime     Cu  ttye  Aparimettayasui'^ttra  hiyai  puiiiaai    haiiiblsa 
pamaka  ni  yudi  hime  ii  [30] 

Namau  bliagavate  Aparamittayu[15  ^ijjnanasuvini^cittatejaurajaya  ^ 
tathagataya  rliete  samyatsambuddliaya  •  tadyatha  aum  sarvamsa"skara- 
parisuddhidharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavivi^uddhe  mahanaya- 
parivare  svaha  "^Ttatta  mi  khu  Sumira  garnam  ^  hamamga  ramninai 
bambisa  padlme  u  hauri-ye  heda  ttye  punii'^nai  haiiibisa  hamada  pamaka 
hame  u  ttye  Aparamittayusuttra  puninai  hambisa  •  ^ 

[16  ay\  pamaka  ni  yuda  hame  ii  [31] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvini^cetatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gata"ya  rhite  samyatsambuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  samrvasaiiiskarapari- 
suddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhai"vavi^uddhe  mahana  •*  yapari- 
vare  svaha  I  Ttatta  mi  khu  tcahaura  mahasamudrra  stare  uca-jsa 
hambai'^dam  ttyaiii  liamada  uci  liiyam  kanarh  hakhiysa  ^  pamaka  hame 
ttye  Aparamittayusuttra  pamaka  ne  ha[16?)i]me  [32] 

Teanslation. 
all  events  be  measured,  but  the  store  of  merit  resulting  from  the  Aparimitayusutra 
could  not  be  made  measured.     [30] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [ffc.,  as  para.  5].  Thus  if  one  would  lay  up  a  store 
of  treasures  equal  to  mount  Meru  and  give  a  gift  of  it,  then  his  store  of  merit  could 
at  all  events  be  measured,  but  the  store  of  merit  resulting  from  the  Aparimitayusutra 
could  not  be  made  measured.     [31] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  \etc.,  as  para.  5].  Thus  if  the  four  oceans  were  full  of 
water,  then  the  number  of  the  drops  contained  in  their  water  could  at  all  events  be 
measured,  but  that  of  the  Aparimitriyusutra  could  not  be  measured.     [32]. 


K.  ^  The  manuscript  perhaps  has  -niicaitta-.  ^   '^q^lA.  gara-na. 

^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  page. 

*  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  in  vacant  space  in  front  of  string-hole. 

'  Read  hamkMysa. 


S.  !"«  Ci  tu,  C2  tim.,  C'  no. 

189  Q\  Apariwrtdyusutram,  C  ParimUdyusMraih . 

190  'QQ'i  puiiyaskandha,  and  ou\.  pramdnani  sakyam,  V}  om.  ^akyam. 

"1  B  adds  II  24  II  after  the  para.  "^  C  yesdm  Snmeru. 

■"^  C^  parvvatardja.  ^°*  H  sama,  C^-^  saindna.  i^'  BC^-^^  -rdsiih. 


WITH  SANSKKIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VEKSION     321 

Sanskeit  Text. 
punyaskandhasya  pramanam  ^akyaiii  ganayituiii,  na  tv  ""  Aparimit^yuh- 
siitrasya  ""  punyaskandhasya  ""  pramanam  sakyam  ganayitum.^"  [30] 

Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  jjara.  5].  Yatha  Sumeroh  "^  parva- 
tarajasya"^  samanam"*  ratnarasiiii"^  krtva  danaiii  dadyat,  tasya""  punya- 
skandhasya pramanam  sakyarii  "'^  ganayituiii,  na  tv  Aparimitayuh- 
sutrasya  punyaskandhasya  pramanam  ganayitum."^  [31] 


Orh  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Yatha  "''  catvaro  mahasam- 
udra^o"  udakaparipurnna  bhaveyuh,^"  tatra  ekaikavinduiii  ^"^  (^akyaiii^os 
ganayituiii,  na  tv  Aparimitayuhstitrasya  2°*  punyaskandhasya  ^°'  prama- 
narii  206  ganayitum.2"  [32] 


Tibetan   Version. 
kyis  •  mchod  •  par  -byas  •  pahi  •  bsod  •  nams  ■  kyi  ■  phuii  •  po  •  dehi  •  tshad  •  ni 
bgrari-bar  •  nus  •  kyi  -Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  ■  myed  •  pahi-  mdo  •  hdihi- bsod -nams 
kyi  •  phuii  •  pohi  •  tshad  •  ni  ■  bgraii  •  bar  •  myi  •  nus  •  so.  [30] 

^Na-  mo-ba  •  g&-ha-te[etc.,  as  para.  5].  Hdi-lta  •  ste-dper-na-riii-po 
chehi-phuii-po  -Pti  •  rab  •  tsam-spuiis  •  te  •  sbyin  -pa  -byin  •  pa  •  dehi  •  bsod  •  nams 
kyi  •  pliuii  •  pohi  •  tshad  •  ni  •  bgraii  •  bar  •  nus  ■  kyi  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  tu-  mad  •  pahi 
mdo-sde-hdihi-bsodnams-kyi-phuii-poi-tshad-ni-bgraii-bar-mi-nusso.     [31] 

Na  •  mo  •  ba  •  ga  •  ba  ■  te  [etc. ,  as  para.  5].  '  Adi  •  Ita  •  ste  •  rgya  •  mtsho 
chen  •  po  •  bzihi  •  chus  •  yoiis  •  su  •  gari  •  bahi  •  thigs  •  pa  ■  re  •  re  •  nas  •  bgran  •  bar 
nus  •  kyi  •  Tshe  •  dpag  ■  du  •  myed  •  pahi  mdo  •  hdihi  •  bsod  •  nams  •  kyi-  phuri 
pohi  •  tshad  ■■  ni  •  bgran  •  bar  •  myi  •  nus  •  so.  [32] 

1^*^  C  danam  dattasya.  i^''  C^-^  om.  sakyam. 

1^^  B  om.  na  in — ganayitum,  and  adds  II  25  II  at  the  end  of  the  para. 

"9  Ci  atha. 

2°°  B  -samudra,  Q}  -samudrodakaparipurnna,  C^  samudrodakamparipurmiam. 

^"1  B  Ikaveyur,  and  om.  tatra  ;   C'-^  bhaveyw. 

^"2  C-'  ekaikasamudrodakavindu,  C'^  ekaikasamudrodakamvindu'm,Q/'  ekaikidakavlndu. 

203  gQ3  Qjjj_  Sakyam,  C^  ganayitum  sakyam. 

204  C^  Pari,  and  omits  rest.  ^"5  'Q  pjinyaskarhdham,  C^  pimyaskandha. 
206  J5Q1  Qjjj_  pramanam.  2"''  B  adds  II  26  II  after  the  para. 


T.  ^  Paragraph  31  is  omitted  in  T. 


322  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITAYUH   SUTEA 

Khotanese  Veesion. 
Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujnanasuvinigcitatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rhite  samyatsambuddhaiiya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskarapari- 
suddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavavisuddhe  mahanayaiiiparivare 
svaia  II  Kamma  patca  si  hamave  cu  ttye  Aparamittayusuttra  pajsa 
yani  u  piri  aysdamrjai  i^yani  ttye  daihsva  disva  bisa  buddhaksettra 
bi^aiii  gyastam  baysam  orga  yude  hame  .  n  •  ii  •  ^ 
[17  fti]  u  mista  puja  pajsam  ii  [33] 

Namau  bhagavate  Aparamittayujiianasuviniscitatejaurajaya  tatha- 
gataya  rhi"te  samyatsambuddhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasamskarapari- 
^uddhadharmate  gaganasamudgate  svabhavai"visuddhe  mahanayapara- 
vare  svaha  ii 

DariinalDalabhirata  narasiha  damnabalena  samudgatam  i^buddha 
daiiinabalasya  ^runiyata  sabdam  karunakasya  puram  prave^amte  ii 
Haurije  hauva-jsa  hayaram[17Z)i]da  hvamclamaa  sarauva 
haurije  hauvi-jsa  aysdada  stamna  baysuiiiBta  busti  • 
haurije  hauva  bijasa  "pvuma  na  vaysnaiii  pusdi 
sauna  ttramdye  stam  kithasta  vastaiii  ii  [34] 

Silambalabiratta  narasiha  silabai"lena  samudgata  buddha 
silabalasya  sruniyata  sabdam  karunakasya  pura  pravesamte  ii 

Translation. 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Whoever  again  he  might  be  who 
wonld  do  homage  to  the  Aparimitaynsutra,  and  write  it  and  hallow  it,  by  him 
obeisance  would  be  done  to  all  the  Venerable  Exalted  Ones  in  the  buddhafields 
existing  in  the  ten  quarters.     [33] 

Salutation  to  the  Lord   [rfc,  as  para.  5]. 

By  the  power  of  alms  the  lions  amongst  men  are  living, 

being  hallowed  by  the  power  of  alms,  thou  acquiredest  buddhahood; 

the  hearing  of  the  sound  of  the  power  of  alms  one  does  not  hear  here, 

it  is  proclaimed  to  him  who  has  entered  into  the  city  of  the  Merciful  One.    [34] 

K.  ^  Superfluous  signs  of  interpunction  at  end  of  page. 


S.  2'«  C  yak.  20f.  ci  saskrte,  C^  sahrte.  ^i  o  c  pujayismnti. 

2"  B  dam. 

^''^  C^  sarvvalokaclMtau  huMlia- ;  BC'-^  -ksatrem,  C"  -Jcsatre  likliisyati  likhdpayis- 
j/ali.  213  Q2  -tathdgatdn  dar.<ayati,  C"  -tatlidgatdh . 

2^*  C"  pujitds  ca  sanmdnito  hJiavisyati.  ^^^^  B  adds  11  27  II  after  the  para. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     323 

Sanskrit  Text. 
Om  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  joara.  5].     Ya^"*  idam  Aparimitiyuh- 
sutraiii     likhisyati    likhapayisyati     samskrtya  ^"^     pujayisyati ""    tena 
da^asn  2"    diksu    sarvabuddhaksetresii  ^^^    sarvatathagata  ^"    vanditah 
pujita^2i4  Q^  bhavisyanti.21-'  [33] 


Om  namo  bhagavate^"  [etc.,  o,s para.  5]. 


Danabalena  -"  samudgata  buddho  danabal^dhigata  ^^^  narasiiiihah  1 
danabalasya  ca  ^^^  ^ruyati  "^^^  ^abdah  ^^^  kaninikasya  pure  ^^^  pravi- 
santam  11  [34] 


Tibetan  Version. 

Na  •  mo-  ba  •  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Grari  •  zig  •  Tshe  •  dpag  •  du  • 
myed  •  pahi  •  mdo  ■  hdi  ■  hdrir  •  bcng  ■  gam  •  mchod  •  j^a  •  byed  •  par  ■  hgyur  ■  ba  • 
des  ■  pbyogs  •  bcuhi  •  sans  •  rgyas ■  kyi  •  zin  •  thams  ■  chad  •  du  •  de  •  bzin  •  g^egs  • 
pa •  thams  •  chad  •  la-  phyag -byas  •  pa •  dan •  mchod  •  pa  •  byas  •  jia  •  yin  •  no.  [33] 

Na  ■  mo  •  ba  ■  ga  •  ba  •  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5]. 

Sbyin  •  bahi  •  stobs  •  kyis  •  saris  •  rgyas  •  yaii-dag  •  hphags  •  myihi  ■  sen-ges  1 

sbyin  •  bahi  •  stobs  •  rtog  •  ste  1 

^sfiin  •  rjehi  •  grori  •  khyer  •  du  •  yari  ■  hjug  -  pa  •  na  1 

sbyin  •  bahi  ■  stobs  •  kyi  •  sgra  •  ni  •  grags  •  par  •  hgyurd  11  [34] 

'^^^  Alter  svdka   C  adds   at/ia   klialn  (C^    om.  k/ialu)    Bkacjanhi   tanijCmi,   velai/am 
imdi'ti  f/cithdm  ahhdsat. 

21'  C^  ddnaharena  nmnuclgala  hnddho  ildnahara^ya  ca  imyati  iabcld. 
21^  BC^-^  ddnabarddhigaUl.  ^^^  BC^  ddnavarusi/a  ca,  C'  ddiiahalaksatra. 

220  Qi  if^yanti.  2^-1  B  mhda,  C  xabdd,  and  so  also  in  the  following. 

2-^  Q}  pnryeM,  C^  here  and  in  the  following yj/'Tyaw, ;  C^  adds  II 1  II  after  the  para. 


T.  ■■  I'l  sec.  man.,  T^  snin-rje. 

y2 


324  KHOTANESE   APAEIMITIYUH  SUTRA 

Khotanbse  Version. 

« 

i'^Paraliije  hauvi-jsa  hamraiiiyada  ^  hvaiiindamna  sarauva 
parahije  hauvi-jsa  aysdada  sta-  •  ii  •  ^  [18  a,i]  na  baysu^ta  busti 
parahije  hauvi-jsa  ^  bijasa  pvaiiima  ni  vaysnaiii  pu'^di 
sauna  ttraiiidye  starii  kithasta  vastaih  [35] 

Ksrintabai^abhiratta  narasiham  ksamntabalena  samudgata  buddham 
ksamntabalasya  Sruniyati  sabda  karu"inikasya  pure  pravesariite  u 
Ksamauttevije  hauva-jsa  hayaraiiida  hvaiiidamna  sarauva 
ksamauteviji  hauvi^'^jsa  aysdarhda  stariina  baysum^ta  bust! 
ksamauttevije  hauvi  bijasa  pvuihma  ni  vaysiiarii  pju^da 
sauna  ttraiiidye  starii  ki[l  8  Jijthasta  vasta  ii  [36] 

Viryabalabhirata  narasiha  •  viryabalena  samudgata  buddha 

^  iryabalasya  sruiiniyata  ^abdaili  karunakasya  puri  pravesariite  ii 

Virsije  hauvi-jsa  hayararhda  hAandaiiina  sarauva 

virgjiiije  hauvi-jsa  aysdada  stariina  baysuSta  bustarii  • 

vir^ije  hauvi  bajasa  pvaiiima  na  vaysnarii  pusdi 

sauna  *  ttradye  i'^starh  kithasta  vastaiii  ii  [37] 


Translation. 
By  the  power  of  morality  the  lions  amongst  men  are  living,  etc.     [35] 
By  the  power  of  forbearance  the  lions  amongst  men  are  li^'ing,  etc.     [36] 
By  the  power  of  energy  the  lions  amongst  men  are  living,  etc.     [37] 


^  li-ead  hai/urahida.  ^  Superfluous  signs  of  interpunction  at  end  of  page. 

^  Read //ai/vl  iijdsa.  *  B,ea,(i.  sai/m/framdi/e. 


''-'  MSS.  budd/w. 

^^*  B  xUevarddhi-,  C^  Maharddhi-,  C"  rdabaldHiand  narasii'nho. 

^^^  BC^  silavarasya  eu,  C^  Mabarasya  ca,  C'^  Silabalaksatra.  ^^^  C^-^  iruyanti. 

^^■'  Q?' praludntam,  C^' pravimntaiii  II  2  II.  ^^^  B  -varemm,  C'  -varena. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     325 

Sanskrit  Text. 
Silabalena  samudgata  buddhah^^"  ^ilabal^dhigata  ^^^  narasimhah  i 
silabalasya   ca  ^^^    sruyati  -^^    ^abdah    karunikasya   pure   pravisan- 
tam  -27 11  [35] 


Ksantibalena  ^^^  samudgata  buddhah  ^^^  ksantibal4dhigata  '^^°  nara- 

siriihah  > 
ksantibalasya  2"  ca  sruyati  ^^^  sabdah  karunikasya  pure  pi-avi^an- 

tam233  II  [36] 


Viryabalena  ^'^    samudgata    buddho    viryabaMdhigata  ^^^    narasim- 
hah 236  I 

viryabalasya  ca^^'    sruyati^^^   sabdah   karunikasya   pure   pravi^an- 
tam  238 II  [37] 


Tibetan  Version. 
Tshul  -khrims  •  stobs  -kyis  ■  sails  •  rgyas  -yaii-dag-hphags  •  myihisen-ges  i 
tshul  •  khrims  ■  stobs  •  rtog  •  ste  i 
^  snih  •  rjehi  •  groh  •  khyer  •  du  •  yaii  ■  hjug  •  pa  •  na  i 
tshul  •  khrims  •  stobs  ■  kyi  ■  sgra  •  ni  •  grags  •  par  •  hgyurd  ii  [35] 

Bzod-pahi  •  stobs  •  kyis  •  sails  •  rgyas  •  yafi  •  dag  •  hphags  •  myihi  •  sen  •  ges  i 

bzod  •  pahi  ■  stobs  •  rtog  •  ste  i 

^  siiifi  •  rjehi  •  grori  •  khyer  •  du   yari  •  hjug  ■  pa  •  na  i 

bzod  •  pahi  ■  stobs  ■  kyi  •  sgra  •  ni  •  grags  •  par  ■  hgyurd  ii  [36] 

Brtson-hgrus  ^  •  stobs-kyis-safis-rgyas-yah-dag-hphags-myihi-seh-ges  i 

brtson  •  hgrus  •  stobs  •  rtog  ■  ste  i 

^  siiih  •  rjehi  •  groh  •  khyer  •  du  •  yari  ■  hjug  •  pa  •  na  i 

brtson  •  hgrus  •  stobs  ■  kyi  •  sgra  •  ni  •  grags  •  par  ■  hgyurd  il  [37] 

229  MSS.  buddho.  230  Q2  -i,aradJiigatd,  Q^  -haldlitana  narasimho. 

231  BC^-2  Mdntivarasya  ca,  C^  ksdntivalakmtra.  232  Q1.2  ^^jii^ii^ifi^ 

233  C3  adds  3  II.  234  g  -varenan,  C^  -valeiid,  C^  -varena. 

235  CI.2  -mrddJiigatd,  C^  -haldlitand.  230  jqi  nalasimhd,  Q,^  narasimho. 

237  BC^'2  -varasya  ca,  C^  -halahatra.       238  g  pravimntdm  ;  C^ pravimntam  II  4  II. 


T.  1  T^  sec.  man.,  T2  mih  ■  rje.  2  rji  i^^g^^^ .  Jig^ng  .  ]^yi 


326  KHOTANESE   APARIMITAYUH   SUTRA 

Khotanese   Version. 
Dhyariinabalabliarata  narasiha  dhyamnabale-  •  ^ 

[19  ai]  na  samudgata  budha  • 
dhyamnabalasya  sruniyita  sabdaiii  karunikasya  pure  pravi^aihta  : 
DhyamnTje  hauva-"jsa  hayiramda  livandaiiina  sarauva  • 
dhyaiiinije  hauviba-jsa^  aysdamda  stamaa  baysum^ta  bustarh  • 
dhyamnije  haui"va  bijasa  p^mma  na  vamiiaria  pusda 
sauna  ttraiiidye  starii  kithasta  vastaiii  •  [38] 

Prrajiiabalabhirata  narasiha  prai^jnabalena  samudgata  budha 
prrajiiabalasya   ^rumyata   sabdaiii    karunakasya   pure  prravisariite 

[19  6i]  : 
Hajvattetije  hauvi-jsa  hayarariida  hvandaiiina  sarauva 
hajvattetije  hauva-jsa  aysdada  staiiina  baysum^ta  •  ^  "busta 
hajvattetije  hauvi  bijasa  pyaihma  ni  vaysnaiii  pusdi 
sariina  *  ttrariidye  sta  kithasta  vasta  •  [39] 

Namau "'  bhagavate  Aparimitayujnanasuvmi^citatejarajaya  tatha- 
gataya  •  ^  i^rhete  samyaksambudhaya  tadyatha  aum  sarvasaiiaskara- 
pari^uddhadharmate  gagana- 

Translation. 

By  the  power  of  contemplation  tlie  lions  amongst  men  are  living,  etc.    [38] 
By  the  power  of  wisdom  the  lions  amongst  men  are  living,  etc.     [39] 


K.  ^  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  page. 
^  Read  hauvi-jsa. 
"  Superfluous  sign  of  interpunction  at  end  of  line.  *  Read  sau 


^39  B  -varenuiii.,  C^  -halend,  C^  -vareiia. 

^*o  Bom.  pada2;  C^ -haldlitaud.    '  '^^  C'-'^ -siihho. 

2*^  BC'-^  -varasi/a  ca,  C'^  -halakmira. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VERSION     327 

Sanskrit  Text. 
Dhyanabalena  ^^^  samndgata  buddho  dhyanabal^dhigata  ^^  narasirii- 

hah  2"  I 
dhyanabalasya  ca  ^^^  ^rliyati  ^^^  ^abdah  karunikasya  pure  pravisan- 

tam  2"  II  [38] 


Prajnabalena^*^  samndgata  buddbah^"  prajnabalMhigata^*'  narasirii- 

hah  2*8  I 
prajnabalasya  ca  ^*^  sruyati  ^^°  sabdah  karunikasya  pure  ^^^  pravisan- 

tam  II  [39] 


Tibetan  Version. 
Bsam-gtan  •  stobs  -kyis  •  sans  ■  rgyas  ■  yari  •  dag  ■  hphags  •  myihi  ■  sen-  ges  i 
bsam  •  gtan  •  stobs  •  rtog  ■  ste  i 
^  snin  •  rjehi  ■  grori  •  khyer  •  du  •  yan  •  hjug  •  pa  ■  na  i 
bsam  -  gtan  •  stobs  •  kyi  ■  sgra  ■  ni  •  grags  •  par  •  hgyurd  ii  [38] 
Ses  •  rab  •  stobs  •  kyis  •  sails  -  rgyas  •  yaii  •  dag  •  hphags  •  myihi  •  seri  ■  ges  i 
^es  •  rab  ■  stobs  •  rtog  •  ste  i 

^  sniri  ■  rjehi  •  groh  •  khyer  •  da  •  yah  •  hjug  •  pa  •  na  i 
ses  •  rab  -  stobs  •  kyi  ■  sgra  •  ni  •  grags  •  par    hgyurd  ii  [39] 

243  Q1.2  ^riij/atiti,  C"  kuyatu.  ^''*  B  pravimntam,  Or' pravi^dnta  II  5  II. 

^■is  B  -varenam,  C^  -vaknd.  24o  i^jgg^  ^^(^^;/^(,_ 

'^■"  C^  -valddJiigatd,  C^  -varddhigatd,  C^  -haldlitana. 

C4S  Q1.3  nalasmho,  C-  naragimho. 

240  pQi  ^xiarasya  ca,  C^  -valasya  ca,  C^  -balahatra.  2^"  C^-^  kuyanti. 

251  j5  pravUantarh. 


T.  ■'  T^  sec.  man.,  T^  sniii  ■  rje. 


328  KHOTANESE   APARIMITIYUH  SUTRA 

Khotanese  Version. 

[20  a/]   samudgate   svabhavavisuiiidhe    mahaniyaparivare    svaha  n 

Khu  gjasta  baysa  ttu  hvanai  hva  yude  bi^a  gyasta  "u  hvanda  aysuram 

gandharvaiii  astamna  lovya  parsa  tta  ttu  gvasta  baysS  hivi  hvanai  tbyau 

naiiida  napamdai  vi  "iaysmya  yudariida  Gyasta  baysa  hadi  sutra  samasye 

I'  S=^  '>  [40] 

Ttu  Aparamitayasutra  Cadipyaina  Saui"^krra^isa  pasti  pide  bay- 
suiiista  brJya  [41] 

TllANSLATION. 

Salutation  to  the  Lord  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  When  the  Venerable  Exalted  One  had 
made  this  saying  uttered,  all  gods  and  men  and  the  assembly  in  the  world  beginning 
with  asuras  and  gandharvas  quickly  embraced  that  saying  of  the  A^enerable  Exalted 
One,  and  when  it  became  understood  placed  it  in  their  mind.  The  Venerable 
Exalted  One  thus  completed  the  sutra.     [40] 

Cadipyaina  Saukrrasisa  caused  this  Aparimitayusutra  to  be  written  in  love  of 
(for  the  sake  of  acquiring)  buddhahood.     [41] 

S.  ^^^   B  avoca.  ^^^  C^  Bhagavann,  C"  Bhagavdnu,  Q?  Bhagavan. 

"^*  B  tends,  C^  dtamands,  C^  aritaniands,  C^  arttas. 


255    P2 


C^  bhiksavo,  and  om.  te  ca.  ^^^  MSS.  hodhisaivd  maJidsatvd. 


WITH  SANSKRIT  TEXT  AND  TIBETAN  VEESION     329 

Sanskrit  Text. 
Oiii  namo  bhagavate  [etc.,  as  para.  5].    Iclam  avocad  ^'^  Bhagavan ^^^ 
attamanas  "-^^,  te  ca  bhiksavas^'^  te  ca  bodhisattva  mahasattvah^^^  sa  ca 
sarvavati  parsat  ^^''  sadevamanusasuragandharvas  ca  loko  ^*^  Bhagavato  ^=' 
bhasitam  abhyanandann  iti.  [40] 


Tibetan  Version. 
Na  •  mo  •  ba  ■  ga  ■  ba  ■  te  [etc.,  as  para.  5].  Boom  •  Idan  •  hdas  • 
dgyes  •  ^iri  •  hdi  •  skad  •  ces  •  bkah  ■  stsald  •  to.  Hjam  •  dpal  •  gzo  ■  nur  ■ 
gyurd  ■  pa  •  dan  •  Iha  •  dan  •  myi  •  daii  •  Iha  ■  ma  •  yin  ■  dan  ■  dri  •  zar  •  bcas  • 
pahi  •  hjig  •  rten  ■  gyi  •  hkhor  •  de  •  tliams  •  chad  ■  bcom  •  Idan  •  hdas  •  kyis  • 
gsuns  •  pa  ■  la  ^  •  miion  ■  bar  •  dgaho.  [40] 


B  -mdnuyisunilokc 
loJco.  ^^^  B  om.  Bhagavato. 


^■^^  B  -mdnuylsuraloko  gandhartva^  ca,  C  sadevamdniisd8uragaruflagandJiarvva-i  ca 


T.  ^  T^  gsuhs  -pa  ■  las. 


VOCABULARY    TO    VAJRACCHEDIKA 
AND    APAEIMITAYUH    SUTRA 


(Quotations  from  the  Aparimitayulj  Sutra  have  been  marked  A,  and  lefer  to  the 
paragraphs,  not  to  the  pages  of  the  original.) 


a,  conj.,  or,  A  23;  o-ra,  or  else,21  a";  23  6"; 
cf.  0. 

abhasa,  loanword,  Skr.  abhdsa,  not  shining, 
416". 

abhava,  loanword,  Skr.  abhava,  non-exist- 
ence, 206'''. 

abhutasamna,  loanword,Skr.  a6AM<asa'/?i;Ma, 
not  a  true  idea,  246^;  cf.  ihuttasamna. 

ada,  pron.,  another;  loc.  sing,  addna,  A  23. 

adara,  loanword,  Skr.  ddara,  respect,  care, 
41am. 

adata,  subst.,  not  right,  unright,  1 4  6". 

adhigamasvabhavi,  loanword,  Skr.  adhi- 
gamasvabhdvika,  fit  to  be  acquired,  19  «m; 
adhiyamasubhdvd,  1 9  6". 

adrraysa,  unidentified,  14  6i'^. 

adyamma,  subst.,  a  no-belief,  39  a". 

agaprattyanga,  loanword,  Skr.  angapra- 
tyangam,  limb  for  limb,  256". 

aguua,  non-characteristics,  non-marks, 
23aiv;  40a'"  ;  see  gund. 

ah.,  to  be  ;    3rd  pers.  sing.  pres.  astii,  116' 
15  aiii ;    22  6"  ;    25  «' ;    32  a™  ;    33  6™ 
40ai;    asta,   13 a™;    190";    ascrt,  A  2 
nistd,  ia  not,  2  a";   17  6";   19  6';  226" 
32  a",  6"-"-;   34  a' ;  nisti,  19  6™;    niSta 
18ai";   3rd  pers.  plur.  icZa,  30  6"  ;   35  a" 
jiii.  iv;   36  ai-";   416";   42  a"  ;  Ide,  A  3 
21  ;   2nd  pers.  sing.  opt.  dyai,  19  6';  di/a. 
19  6";    3rd   pers.   sing,   dya,    15  a"'-"' 
16a";    18a"-;    19  0'";  20 6*";    22  6'" 
23  a\  6™  ;  32  a™,  6'-  "i ;  33  a\  6'- "' ;  34  a' 
z,  2  6"i;  3  6";  17  a",  6'";   216";  22a' 
39  ai;  A  3. 


ah,   to  sit,  to  stay;    3rd  pers.  sing.  pres. 

dstd,   5  6"';    42  6';    dsti,    22  a";    39  6'; 

A  2;    pres.    part,    ami,   25am;    286"; 

A  6  ;  past  part,  dstd,  3  6"  ;  dsta,  A  1 . 
ahaksana,  loanword,  Skr.  aksana,  unfavour- 
able moment,  unhappy  rebirth ;  loc.  plur. 

ahakaanvd,  A  17. 
ahambisa,  subst.,  a  non-collection,  16a'; 

of.  hamblsd. 
aharina,  adj.,  not  containing  objects,  used  to 

translate  Skr.  anupadhisesa,  10  a';  316"; 

A  29  ;  cf.  Aara. 
ahu,  pron.,  thee,  6a'';   see  uhu. 
ahya,  in  an  egg  (loc.  sing.),  96';  cf.  English 

egg- 
ajamla,  probably  a  clerical  error  for  amjald, 

loanword,   Skr.   anjali,   in   ajamla  dastd, 

the  folded  hands,  56"'. 
akalamarana,    Skr.    loanword,    untimely 

death ;    gen.    sing,    ahdlaniaraih,  A  22  ; 

abl.  plur.  akdlamaranyau-jsa,  A  3. 
aksara,  loanword,  Skr.  ahmra ;  instr.  plur. 

ahsaryau  jsa,  hy  means  of  letters,  27  6'. 
alabye,  perhaps  loanword,  Skr.  dlambe,  I 

cling  to,  lean  upon,  2a'''. 
alaksamna,    loanword,    Skr.    alaJcsana,    a 

no-sign,  1 3  a'. 
ana,  pron.,  other,   different,  Zd.  anya ;  nu 

ana,  nothing  else,  2 7 a"'-". 
ana,  see  dh. 
anadai,    pres.    part.,    perhaps    refulgent, 

resplendent (?),  19  a';  gen.  plur.  {V)dnadd, 

18  6". 
anamkhista,  adj.,  innumerable,  Zd.  a^awi- 

ysta,   29a';    41a";    anamkhista,    166""; 

406'' ;     anakhista,    29  a"' ;    anamkhistye. 


VOCABULARY 


331 


24  ai;    gen.  plur.  anmiikhisioma,  ZO  aP ; 

cf.  harhkhlysd. 
anamttanarya,  adj.,  causing  endless  hells, 

A  20  ;  adapted  from  Skr.  dnantarya. 
Anathapindi,  nom.   propr.,  Skr.  Aimtha- 

pindika,  36":  A  1  (gen.  sing.). 
anau,  prepos.,  without ;  the  governed  noun 

is  put  in  the  instr.  with  suffix  -na,  9  6"  ;  or 

-jsa,  9  6'ii-  i' ;  or  in  the  gen.,  21  a* ;  cf.  aviv. 
anavyamjaninai,     adj.,    connected    with 

anavyamjana,     Ski',    anuvyanjana,     the 

secondary  marks,  23  d^'. 
anici,    loanword,    Skr.    anitya,    not    ever- 
lasting, transient,  41  J". 
anusamsa,  loanword,  Skr.  anummsa,  profit, 

blessing;  nom.  plur.  anusamsa,  A  4. 
aparamma,  a  non-paramita,  22  6"  ;  40  a' ; 

see  paramma. 
Aparimittayujnanasuviniscitaraja,  nom. 

propr.,    name    of    a    bodliisattva ;    nom. 

Ajiaramattdyvjndnasumniscittarajd,  A  2  ; 

gen.      Apariniitidyujndnasuvanis'citardjd, 

A  3 ;    Aparamittdyujnd/nasuviniscitardjd, 

A  3  {-nis'cata-) ;  4  {-ttardgyd) ;  6. 
Aparimittayusiittra,   nom.  propr.,   name 

of  a  sutra ;  ace.  Aparamiitdyusuttrd,  A  7  ; 

8;    9  {-mitdyu-);    10;    11;    12  {Apari- 

mitd-) ;  1 4  {Apardmlttdydsuttrd) ;  1 5  and 

16    {Apdramittdydsuttra)  ;     17    {-mattd- 

ydsuUra);    18    (^Apardmettdthyusumtrd) ; 

20  (-mattdyusutra) ;  21  ;  22  [-mettdyu-); 

23;   24;    25  {Apard-);  26  {-sutrd);  27; 

41    {-Tnitdydsutrd) ;    gen.  Aparamittdyu- 

suttrd,  A  28  {-sutrd);   29  ;   30  {A2Mrimet- 

tdyd-);  31  ;   32;  33. 
arahamda,  loanword,  Skr.  arhant,  an  arhat; 

gen.  arahamdd,  1 8  a^-  ^^, 
arahamdauna,  suhst.,  arhatship,  18  «iiiiii^'. 
araliamjnarii,   loanword,  Skr.  arhajjndna, 

the  knowledge  of  an  arhat,  18  6"^. 
arahya,  loanword,  Skr.  drdgita  or  drddhita, 

pleased,  30  6";  cf.  virdhya. 
aramna,  loanword,  Skr.  arana,  18  6'^. 
aranavyiharai,    loanword,    Skr.   arandvi- 

hdrin,  18  6i^. 
artha,  loanword,  Skr.   artha,  (1)  meaning, 

sense;    aoc.  artha,  22  6'^;    artha,  27  6'; 

38  6";  (2)  object,  matter,  artha  vlra,  about 

matter,  24  6'-^. 


arupina,  loanword,  Skr.  arupinah,  devoid 
of  form,  20  a". 

aryapudgala,  loanword,  Skr.  dryapudgala, 
15ai^- 

aryastagamarginai,  adj.,  belonging  to  the 
drydstdngamd/rga,  1 7  a". 

asa,  unidentified  word,  perhaps  Skr.  did, 
3  a'". 

asadina,  subst.,  disbelief,  A  23. 

asaihna,  loanword,  Skr.  asamjnd,  a  nou- 
idea,  25  6iv. 

asan,  adj.,  worthy,  deserving,  Phi.  arjdn; 
cf.  dsdnika,  an  arhant,  in  the  Unaryan 
Indo-europeau  language  of  Turkestan ; 
pajsamdnd  dsan-na  (instr.),  hj  him  who  is 
worthy  of  worship,  6  a". 

aSara,  uncertain,  perhaps  inauspicious,  15  a'; 
see  iira. 

asara,  loanword,  Skr. asar a, worthless,  426'". 

asi,  subst.,  nun,  44  a'";  probably  a  loan- 
word, Skr.  dryd ;  the  form  is  nom.  plur. 

asi,  see  dtasa. 

asiri,  subst.,  a  monk,  an  elder  ;  nom.  sing, 
"a^rt,  5  a",  6i ;  9  a' ;  1 2  a^-  "' ;  1 3  a™ ;  2  2  a"' ; 
24  a" ;  31  a'";  32  6^ ;  34  6'v;  35  a"-  "*,  6" ; 
36  6";  37  6';  39  6";  44  a'';  ace.  sing. 
a|jVi,  7ai';  8  a"';  32  6'^;  34  6"';  35  a', 
6i-''i;  36  a'- i";  37  a''';  voc.  sing,  diirya, 
36  a"  ;  diary  a,  37  a'^ ;  nom.  plur.  diirya, 
5  a';  44  a"' ;  instr.  plur.  diiryau-jsa, 
4a'i;  A  1.  "" 

aski,  subst.,  a  tear,  Peis.  aSk,  Wa^i  yaik  ; 
dski  eira,  shedding  of  tears,  24  a"  ;  ace. 
plur.  dska,  24  a".    • 

aspas,  to  look  forward  to  (?),  to  reach,  cf.  Zd. 
s]MS  ;   3rd  pers.  sing.  pres.  aspasde,  19  a'. 

asta,  see  ah. 

asta,  &ee  dh. 

astamna,  beginning  with,  416";  44  a''*'; 
A  22  ;  26  ;  30 ;  40 ;  the  word  is  prob- 
ably the  ablative  of  a  noun  dstam,  dstana; 
cf.  Zd.  stana. 

atasa,  loanword,  Skr.  dkdsa,  the  sky ;  nom. 
dtasa,  12  a"';  dsi,  12  a*. 

atmabhava,  loanword,  Skr.  dtmabhdva, 
existence,  20  6'!';  dtnuibhavinai,  belong- 
ing to,  connected  with,  dtmabhdva,  10  6^^. 

atmasamua,  loanword,  Skr.  dtmasamjnd, 
idea  of  a  self,  14  a"i;  25  6";   26  a'";  32  a'. 


332 


VOCABULARY  TO 


attaramdara,  a  non-body,   33  6";  see  Ua- 

ramdaru. 
atvaste,  uncertain,  perhaps  inf.  of  verb,  to 

overpower,  A  24. 
au,  oonj.,  or,  38  6"  ;  A  4  ;  au  vd,  the  same, 

38  5> ;  cf.  o. 
auda,  prepos.,  up  to,  till,  A  17. 
aurgaviya,  adj.,  praiseworthy,  that  should 

be  worshipped,  A  26  ;  cf.  orga. 
auskaujsi,  adv.,  eternally,  ever,  38  6"'. 
avamata,  part.,  unmeasured,  unmeasurable, 

10  a"  ;     14  ««  ;     24  ai ;     25  a"' ;     28  6i ; 

29  ai-  iii ;  40  6" ;  41  a"  ;  cf.  jtamaka  and 

Zd.  a-^-framdta. 
avarana,  loanword,  Skr.  dvarana,  covering, 

blinding,  hindrance;   gen.  sing,  dvarana, 

2  h\ 
avarautt'a,  part.,  not  attached,  independent, 

20aiii;  avdrautta,  116"';   12  Ji;   26  6'^; 

44a';  cf.  pdrautta. 
avaya,  loanword,  Skr.  ajydya,  evil  abode ; 

loc.   plur.  drrayvd  avdyvd,  in   the  three 

apdyas,  30  a*, 
aviskasta,  part.,  non-displayed,  20a";    cf. 

piskald. 
avyasta,  part.,  grasped,  38  6" ;  39  «">. 
avyuha,   loanword,  Skr.   avyuha,   non-dis- 
play, 20  a\ 
aya,  see  ali. 
aya,  to  be  seen,  to  appear ;  3rd  j)ers.  plur. 

pres.  dydri,  4 1  6™. 
ayimamma,      subst.,     perhaps     meaning 

'obtaining',  '  possession',  A  4. 
aysaiii,  loanword,  Skr.  dsana,  a  seat ;  dysarh 

vira,  on  the  seat,  4  6'" ;  dysam-na,  from 

the  seat,  5  6^ 
aysda,    subst.,    protection,    support  ;    ace. 

dysdd,  3  a" ;  with  suffixed  i,  dysdai,  A  24. 
aysdamrja,  subst.,  embellishment,  hallow- 
ing (?) ;  with  suffixed  I,  dysdamrjai,  A  33. 
aysdar,  to  hallow,  to  embellish  (1) ;  past  part. 

uysdadd,  A  34  ;  35;   37;   39;  dysdaindd, 

A  36 ;'  38. 
aysa,    pron.,   I,   Zd.   azem,  3  a}"' ;    18  6'"; 

19  6";   226'";   26  a'-";  with  suffixed  e, 

thee,  ayse,  8  6'". 
aysmu,   sometimes    spelled   aysmu,   subst., 

mind;  nom.  sing,  aj/smw,  7a';  8a";  26  6'; 

316'-";  42  o";  aysmw,  9  a'- 'v ;  26  6"- '"f; 


ace.  sing,  aysmu,  20  a'";  aysmu,  14a'; 
instr.  sing,  aysmuna,  A  14;  aysmu-na, 
26  6'^ ;  A  7  ;  8  ;  9  ;  10  ;  1 1 ;  12;  aysmu- 
jsa,  A  1 5  ;  loc.  sing,  aysmya,  8  6'"  ;  A  40 ; 
aysmu  vna,  from  in  the  mind,  42  a"'. 
aysura,  loanword,  Skr.  asura,  a  demon ; 
nom.  plur.  aysura,  44  a'^' ;  gen.  plur. 
aysurdm,  A  40. 


bada,  subst.,  time,  cf.  Zd.  base  varat ;  aoc. 

sing.  6dd!a,   13  a'^,  6'-";    25  6'";    30  6'"; 

33o'";  43a'-"-'";  6ada,43a'^;  instr.  sing. 

hdda-na,  25  6';  loc.  sing,  heda,  A  1;    2; 

7;'  8;    9;    11;    12;    hida,   A  10;    gen. 

plur.  bdddnd,  26  a';     hdddmnd,    26  a"; 

30  a''*';  bdddm,  44  6'";  loc.  plur.  or  adj. 

drhddva,  in,  or  belonging  to,   the  three 

times,  1  6'. 
bajai,  to  disappear,  to  be  annihilated ;   3rd 

pers.  sing.  pres.  hajaitti,  21  a';   41  a"'. 
bajasa,  subst.,  sound ;  nom.  sing,  bajdsd,  A 

37";  bijdsd,  A  34  ;  35  (6«-)  ;  36 ;  38  ';  39  ; 

instr.  sing,  bajdsd-na,  A  10;    bijdsd-na, 

A8;   12;  bajdsnam,A7  ;  bijdsnam,  A9; 

bajdsnd.  All;  bljdsna,  A  1 4 ;   15;  instr. 

plur.    bajdsyau-jsa,     1 7  a'^  ;    gen.    plur. 

hajdsd,  20a'v;   26  6". 
baka,  unidentified  word,  42  6'. 
bana,  unidentified  word,   42  6'";    perhaps 

the  abl.-instr,  oibdta,  wind ;  '  through  the 

wind '. 
bar,  to  carry;    3rd  pers.  sing.  pres.   bldd, 

14  6'-'. 
baraberamna,  unidentified  word,  43  a'". 
ba4|i)  loc.  sing,  of  a  noun  corresponding  to 

Pers.  bdy,  in  the  grove,   in  the  garden, 

3  6iv;  A  1. 
baSda,  subst.,  sin;  nom.  plur.  ba^de,  A  21; 

aoc.  plur.  baide,  2  6". 
basta,  past  part,  pass.,  bent,  Zd.  basta;  cf. 

Engl,  bend,  4  6'". 
bata,  unidentified  word,  42  6". 
baudhisatva,  loanword,   Skr.  bodhisativa, 

a  bodhisattva;    nom.   sing,    baudhisatva, 

10  6';  126';  32a';  43  6'^;  baudhisatva, 

11  6";  260'";  276'";  32  a";  34  a'^';  40  6"; 
instr.  sing,  baudhisatva,  lla'^';  12  6'"; 
20  a"';     316';    baudhisatva-na,  10  b^" ; 


VAJEACCHEDIKA  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTRA     333 


gen.  sing.,  havdhisatva,  31  6'^;  haudhi- 
satoa,  10  aiv;  llJiii;  nom.  plur.  6aMcZ7w- 
satvii,  6  6";  8  a";  havdhisatva,  6  a";  7  a"', 
fti";  8  6i;  instr.  plur.  baudhisatvau,  A  1  ; 
gen.  plur.  baudhisatva/ih,  3  6ii. 

baudhisatvayamna,  loanword,  Skr.  hodhi- 
sattvayana,  the  vehicle  of  a  hodhisattva ; 
loc.  sing,  haudhisatvaymhiia,  6  6"' ;  8  i*'^ ; 
9  aiii ;  40  ai'^ ;  haudhisatrayamnd,  32  «*". 

baudhisatvayamni,  loanword,  Skr.  6odAi- 
sattvaydnika,  one  who  is  on  the  bodhi- 
sattvayana,  Slai'*'  (instr.  sing.). 

baute,  see  hud. 

bay,  to  bring,  to  take ;  3rd  pers.  plur. 
pres.  hdyldci,  A  23. 

baysa,  high,  exalted,  used  to  translate  Skr. 
hhagavat,  as  a  designation  of  the  Buddha, 
cf.  Zd.  herezat ;  nom.  sing,  haysd,  2  a^^ ; 
37  6iv;  38 ai,  &i.  ii;  with  suffixed  pro- 
noun *,  hay  si,  12  aif  ;  17  6iv.  20  6"i; 
23  a';  instr.  sing,  haysd-na,  23  a"' ;  27  Ji ; 
39  a* ;     haysa-na,    8  a"' ;    abl.    baysd-na, 

19  fei" ;  gen.  sing,  haysd,  A  25  ;  nom.  plur. 
haysd,  3  aif ;  38  ai^i ;  ace.  plur.  haysd,  1  Ji ; 
gen.  pluv.  hay  sand,  16  6";  haysdmnd, 
1 6i^ ;  20  fei^y  laysmi,  2  Jui ;  A  1 8  ;  29  ; 
haysd,  24  6' ;  the  full  designation  is  gya- 
stdnd  gyasid  haysd,  the  venerable  of  the 
venerables  (the  god  of  gods),  the  Exalted 
One ;  nom.  sing,  gyastdnd  gyastd  baysa, 

3  6'";   5  a';   7  a";  gyastdnd  gyasta  haysd, 

4  a";  instr.  Bmg.  gyastdnd  gyastd  baysd-na, 
6  a';    gen.  sing,   gyastdnd  gyastd  haysd, 

5  a";  the  gen.  plur.  gyastdnd\s  commonly 
dropped  and  we  find  nom.  sing,  gyastd 
haysd,  i  aiy ;  5  6*";  19  a";  22  a^^;  25  a'; 
34  6";  35  ai;  36  a*;  37  6';  38  a';  40  a"; 
41a";  44  a";  Al;  2;  40;  gyasta  haysd, 
126";  IBai";  186";  23  a"  ;  32'6iii  ; 
33  ai";  34  6";  35  6^™;  36aiii;  37  a^, 
ji.  ii.  iii;  42  6'^;  44  a";  gyasta  baysa, 
8ai";  27a";  with  suffixed  pronoun  i, 
gyastd  bay  si,  9  a'i ;  1 4  a'v ;  15  6';  316'; 
39  6i";  40  o";  gyasta  haysl,  12  a'';  13  6i ; 
21  a';  ace.  sing,  gyastd  baysd,  5a'",  6"; 
13  ail .  32  Ji;  35  a'^;  jfi/asVa  fcysa,  13  6iii; 
22aiii;  24a'i';  Slaiii;  355U;  sgjii;  instr. 
s'mg.  gyastd  haysd-na,  6aiT;    86';    14a'; 

20  ail ;  40  aii';    gyastd  haysa-na,  39  6i^ ; 


gyasta  haysd-na,  7  a",  6' ;  15  a''';  18  6"; 
22  6i-ii'7  32  a>^  6'';  39aii-ii';  gyasta 
haysa-na,  1 4 a'' ;  3 3  a'- '', 6'' ;  gyasta  bays-na, 
16a'i;  33a',6''i;  abl. sing. gyasta 6a2/sa-wa, 
9aii;  19  6';  gyasta  haysa-na,  33  a"^;  gen. 
sing,  gyastd  haysd,  ISo'',  6iii;  30  a'*'; 
34  6'"i^;  A  3  ;~'6  ;  30  ;  40  ;  gyasta  haysd, 
19  a'ii ;  32  «" ;  35  a''-  ii',  6i ;  jastd  baysd, 
A  4  ;  voc.  sing,  gyasta  baysa,  5  6if ;  9  a'; 
12ai';  156''*';  16ai;  ifaii',  6iv;  ISai'i; 
19  6i";  20  6iii;  22  6iv  ;  23  a'ii ;  33  6ii ; 
34  a' ;  37  5''-  ii^ ;  40  a'ii ;  gyasta  baysd, 
66'*';  12  ai*-;  13  a'ii;  I9aiv;  22aiii;  24aiii; 
31aif;  34  a';  gyasid  baysa,  16  6iii;  36  6ii; 
gyastd  baysd,  8  a^ ;  25  a'';  32  6ii;  39  6ii; 
nom.  plur.  gyasta  baysa,  A  7  ;  8  ;  9  ; 
10  ;  12;  23  ;  gyastam  baysa,  All;  gyasid 
haysd,  2^  a" ;  jasia  beysa,  A  14;  jasta 
beysam,  A  15;  ace.  plur.  gyasta  haysd, 
30  6';  instr.  plur.  gyastyau  baysyuu-jsa, 
15ai*';  23ai;  gen.  plur.  gyastdmnd  bay- 
sdriind,  36";  gyastam  baysammu,  21a"i; 
gyastd/ih  baysd/rh,  35  ai*',  6'*' ;  36  a'-  "  ; 
A  30  (miswritten  baysau) ;  33  ;  gyastd 
haysdmi,  35  6'ii ;  gyastd  baysdm-jsa,  28  ai*'. 

baysamjamna,  that  should  be  grasped, 
7  ai ;  see  biysamj. 

baysuna,  adj.,  connected  with,  belonging 
to  the  Exalted  One,  commonly  added  to 
nouns,  where  the  Sanskrit  text  has  a  com- 
pound with  bodlii;  thus  baysune  carye, 
bodhicarydydh,  of  the  conduct  of  a  buddha , 
of  the  life  of  enlightenment,  2  a' ;  bay- 
sumnd  tcaimamnd,  the  eyes  pertaining  to 
a  buddha,  36  a'";  haysmhiia  vuysai,  a 
being  connected  with  exaltedness,  a  being 
of  exaltedness,  a  bodhisattva,  nom.  sing. 
baysumna  vuysai,  26  a'" ;  28ai;  baysumnd 
vuysai,  40  6ii;  baysuna  vuysai,  15a'; 
haysmhnd  vHysai-na,  7  a'*',  6ii' ;  instr. 
sing,  haysuiia  vuysai-na,  6  6i*' ;  8  6'i' ; 
9aiii;  baysumna  vHysai-na,  31  h'^'^ ;  nom. 
plur.  baysumna  vuysd,  6  aiii,  6ii ;  instr. 
plur.  baysuna  vuysyau-jsa,  A  1. 

baysusta,  subst.,  the  state  of  a  baysd, 
buddhahood;  nom.  wxg.baysuitd,  16  6i*'; 
33  0'';  ace.  sing.  6a2/mi<«,  30  aiii;  33aii; 
haysukd,  \&a^;  3~2  6i-  iii ;  33  ai,  6i*' ;  hay- 
sustd,  A  26;   35;  37;  baysvm^td,  A  34; 


334 


VOCABULAEY  TO 


36;     38;     39;     gen.    sing,    haysumita, 

A41. 
beysedye,  see  hiysan. 
bhajanibhuta,  Skr.  loanword,  one  who  has 

become  a  vessel  for,  who   lias   obtained, 

A  29.- 
tahava,     Skr.    loanword,    state,     condition, 

43ai. 
bhranta,  loanword,  Skr.  bhrcmti,  delusion, 

43  6i. 
bhuttasamna,  loanword,  Skr.  bhutasamjna, 

the  idea  of  reality,   24  6*;  abhutasamna, 

a  non-idea  of  reality,  24  b^. 
bi,  adv.,  and,  also(1),  31a". 
bi,  to  be,  to  become,  Zd.  bu;  pres.  3rd  sing. 

bidi  (?),  is,   27  n" ;    opt.    3rd   pers.   sing. 

vya  (cf.  Old  Pers.  blya),  25  6i^;   33  ft"; 

wjd,  375iii;  past  1st  pers.  sing,  vyi,  26a"; 

3rd  pers.  sing,  vye,  A  1  ;  vya,  3  6*'^ ;  vya, 

25Jiii.  ivj  26  am;  ^yctCi,  4  6";  vyita,5h'^; 

vyela,  5  o'. 
bich,  to  lie  down,  opt.  3rd  pers.  sing,  biche, 

38  6*. 
bida,  see  6ar. 

bidasta,  probably  an  adveib,  cf.  hast  a,  A  22. 
bihi,  adv.,  very,  much,  Zd.  vahyah,  15  6'''; 

20  61";  24  ai";  36  6";  bthl,  A  3. 
bijev,    to    decay ;     pres.    part,    bijevamdai, 

13  6". 
bilsamga,    subst.,    the    order    of    mendi- 

cints,   or  collection  of  monks ;   ace.  sing. 

M-scviiKjii,   16™;   instr.   sing,  bil-sciga-na, 

4ai. 
biras,  to  explain,  propound  ;  3rd  pers.  plur. 

present  act.  biraildi,  29 a*'*';  39a"';   3rd 

pers.  sing,  middle,  biraste.,  2  6* ;  optative 

3rd  pers.  sing,  birdsjyii,  16  6"  ;  23  6*^  ;  fut. 

part.  pass,  hirasmhnd ,  41  a"-  "'  [-birdm  ). 
birasammatinal,  adj.,  connected  with  the 

expounding,  propagation,  A  3. 
bisai,  adj.,  staying,  being  (?);  nora.  plur. 

bisci,  A  3  ;  gen.  plur.  bisa,  A  33. 
bisa,  adj.,  all,  every.  Old  Pers.  vispa ;  nom. 

sing,  bisa,  2  6"!;    A  18;   28;   29;    with 

suffixed  pronoun  i,  biSi,  3  a* ;    ace.  sing. 

6i^a,  27  6*;    with   suffixed   ^,  bisi,  A  3; 

nom.  plur.  biki,  316";   34a"";  416"; 

A  17;   40;   with  suffixed  *,  bin,  A  21  ; 

ace.   plur.   bi^d,    2  6';    6  a";   instr.   plur. 


bUau,  15ai";  22  6";  26  6';  gen.  plur. 
bUamnci,  1  5" ;  6  5' ;  biiam,  27  a';  A  33  ; 
baidrhna,  7  6" ;  bisdna,  2  a" ;  harbUd, 
all  and  every,  10 a';  30  a",  6";  40  6'; 
A  26 ;  gen.  harbiSamnd,  3  6" ;  6i^a,  used  as 
an  intensifying  prefix  with  2>'>''''^no.ttama, 
highest;  6i^a-p.,  highest  of  all,  6  a'";  7  a", 
6";  8  6'";  18  6"'";  26  6';  30  a'"; 
32  a",  6'";   33  6";  6i^a-^.,  6  6"'. 

bisivrrasai,  subst.,  a  noble  male  member 
of  a  clan,  used  to  translate  Skr.  kulajiutra ; 
the  first  part  of  the  word  is  probably  a 
gen.  plur.  biswrrd,  cf.  Zd.  vis;  the  last 
part  sai  should  be  compared  with  Zd. 
^saeta;  nom.  sing,  bisivrrasai,  15  6'"; 
28  a'"  (-Dra-);  36  6';  406'";  A  4;  gen. 
sing,  bisivrrasai,  31  a' ;  36  6" ;  nom.  plur. 
bi»hwrasd,  29  6";  the  corresponding  femi- 
nine is  biswrrasaind,  cf  Zd.  ^ioiOm, ;  nom. 
sing,  biswrrasaind,  15  6"';  28a'"(-wa); 
A  4  ;  bislvrrdssaind,  36  6' ;  gen.  sing.  6m- 
vrrdsaind,  37a';  nom.  plur.  biswrra- 
saind, 29  6". 

bi^ta,  subst.,  death,  the  end  (?),  3  a';  A3. 

bisuna,  adj.,  of  all  kinds,  manifold,  28  a'; 
416";  42  a';  6isMWMla,  43  6'. 

biysaiilj,  to  seize,  grasp,  restrain ;  3rd  pers. 
pkir.  pres.  biysamjdre,  A  23  ;  future  par- 
ticiple passive,  biysamjdmnd,  316';  bay- 
samjdmnd,  7  a'. 

biysan,  to  wake  np ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  past 
beysedye,  42  6"  ;  past  part,  biysddd,  6  a" ; 
biysdrhda,  A  2. 

brriya,  subst.,  love,  affection  (Leumann) ; 
instr.  sing.  6rriyai-^'so,  18  6'";  loc.  sing. 
brrlyd,  A  41  ;  dd-brriya,  in  love  of  the 
law,  3  a"-. 

brriyr'a,  see  prriua. 

brru,  adj.,  earlier,  former,  cf.  Old  Pers. 
paruva,  31a";  brruhadd,  in  the  earlier 
part  of  the  day,  in  the  morning,  4  a" ; 
28  6"  (bru-). 

brrun,  to  shine ;  3rd  pers.  plur.  pres. 
brrunari,  41  6'. 

bud,  to  know,  to  understand,  to  realize; 
inf.  buke,  38  a'^';  3rd  pers.  sing,  present 
act.  butti,  15  a';  1st  pers.  sing,  present 
middle  bve,  22  6";  3rd  pers.  sing,  baute, 
38  6"  ;   3rd  pers.  plur.  bvdri,  30  a'"  ;  2nd 


VAJRACCHEDIKA  AND  APAKIMITAYUH  SUTEA     335 


pers.  sing,  past  hustl,  A  34 ;  35 ;  36 ; 
hustam,  A  37;  38;  husta,  A  39;  past 
part,  husta,  14  6'";  27  6';  32  6i- "i ; 
33  a>-  ii;  A  26  ;  husta,  336^^;  38  a^^;  future 
participle  passive  bvdnd,  42  6™  ;  bvamfid, 
4l6ii;  42  6i. 

budara,  comparative  oibicra,  greater,  larger, 
29ai";  37a";  witli  suffixed  pronoun  i, 
hudarl,  24  a'. 

buddhaksetra,  loanword,  ^'kv.huddhaksetra, 
a  buddhafield;  loc.  sing,  hiddhaksetra, 
A  6;  23  {-ksettra)  ;  25  {-ksettrd) ;  gen. 
plur.  huddhaksettrd,  A  33  ;  huddhaksitrd, 
19  6"';  34  a*" ;  huddhaksitravyuhd,  a  dis- 
play of  buddhaksetras,  20  a'. 

buhumamna,  loanword,  Skr.  bahumdna, 
respect,  esteem,  41  a™. 

bujsa,  subst.,  merit,  virtue ;  gen.  plur. 
bujsd,  A  3. 

bunaspa,  subst.,  apparently  used  to  trans- 
late Skr.  dhupa,  incense;  instr.-abl.  plur. 
hunaspyau,  30  6"';  A  3  (written  6m-); 
huspyau,  37  a*. 

bura,  adj.,  great;  seems  to  be  used  alone  in 
the  forms  burd,  42  6' ;  buri,  42  6",  where, 
however,  the  meaning  is  uncertain  ;  often 
used  after  pronouns ;  thus  ci-bure,  as 
many  as,  A  17  ;  cu-hurd,  so  much  as,  so 
great  as,  used  to  translate  Skr.  ydvant; 
nom.  sing,  cu-bura,  2  6*" ;  nom.  plur.  cu- 
burd,  9ai^;  cu-bura,  A  24;  hhu-burd,  as 
long  as,  14  6'" ;  ku-burd,  so  great  as,  9  6"', 
where  the  form  is  nom.  sing. ;  kustdburd, 
wherever,  12  6"' ;  ttuburd,  so  much,  used 
to  translate  Skr.  etdvat,  44  a"  (ace.  sing.)  ; 
vara-bicrd,  there  so  far,  so  far,  1 3  a^. 

b'usana,  subst. ,  used  to  transl  ate  Skr.  gandha, 
a  smell,  a  thing  that  can  be  smelt ;  cf  Zd. 
baoiSi;  instr.  plur.  6MsanoM,  A3;  busanau- 
jsa,  17a'^;  gen.  plur.  buiando'a,  20  a''*'; 
266iii;  bus'and,  lla^. 

buysya,  adj.,  long ;  buysyejsmi  dylmdmma, 
obtainment  of  long  life,  A  4. 

bvama,  subst.,  knowledge,  understanding,  cf 
hud;  nom.  sing,  bvdma,  40a";  41  6"i; 
bvdmma,  24  a"'- 

bvaumai,  adj.,  possessing  knowledge,  wise, 
A  2. 

byata,  subst.,  recollection,   memory,  Pers. 


ydd ;  nom.  sing,  bydta,  43  a'-  " ;  A  17; 
ace.  sing,  bydta,  4  6^^ ;  hydta  yard,  I  make 
recollection,  I  remember,  26  a' ;  30  a"'. 

byauda,  found, obtained;  nom.  sing.byaudd, 
1 7  oi,  6"! ;  1 8  6i ;  byauda,  1 8  a" ;  byaude, 
35  6i;  nom.  plur.  hyaudi,  34  6'-'";  with 
suffixed  pronoun  l,  hyaudai,  34  6"- i^; 
35  a"- i". 

byeh,  to  obtain;  3rd  pers.  plur.  present 
hyehidi,  14a';  byeliidd,  25  ai";  A  22 ; 
3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  byehe,  A  17  ;  27. 

byeha,  adv.,  more,  43  6*";  A3. 

byiiha,  loanword,  Skr.  vyuha,  exposition, 
explanation  ;  loc.  sing,  byuhd,  3  a" ;  cf. 
vyuha. 

byus,  to  become  light ;  3rd  pers.  sing.  pres. 
hyuitd,  41  6* ;  past  part.  gen.  sing,  hyusteye 
savi,  when  the  nights  have  become  light, 
276"';  perhaps  borrowed  or  adapted  from 
Skr.  vyu^ta. 


Cadipyaina,  nom.  propr.,  name  of  a  man, 

A  41. 
caittya,  see  eittyd. 
cakrravartta,  loanword,  Skr.  cakravartin, 

an    emperor;    nom.    sing,    cakrravarttd, 

37  6";    gen.    sing,   cadrraii.e.    cakrra)- 
varta,  37  6". 

caihda,  pron.,  how  much,  Phi.  cand,  36  6' ; 

with  suffixed  I,  canidl,  21ai". 
car,  to  walk,  to  live  ;  3rd  pers.  sing.  pres. 

cida,  A  2.     The  form  is  not  certain. 
carai,  subst.,  apparently  used  to  translate 

Skr.  dlpa,  a  lamp ;   cf.  Pers.  cirdy ;  ace. 

sing,  carau  pracaina,  with  the   help   of 

a  lamp,  42  a"*. 
carya,    loanword,    Skr.   caryd,   wandering, 

life  ;    gen.    sing,    baisune   carye,    of   the 

bodhicarya,  2  a', 
ce,  which,  of  which ;  see  ci. 
cedamma,  subst.,  thought,  way  of  thinking, 

38  a"- 

cchaisa,  unidentified  word  ;  see  karma. 

ci,  interrogative  pronoun,  Zd.  ci,  compare 
cu ;  nom.  sing,  ci,  what  ?  22  a"' ;  gen.  sing. 
ci,  of  which?  10a"',  6*;  29  6";  316iv; 
32  a";  37  a"';  ce,  38  6i'';  relative  pro- 
noun, nom.  sing,  ci,  116";   12  6';  286'^; 


336 


VOCABULAEY  TO 


ca,  A  16  ;  gen.  sing,  ci,  whose,  3a",  10  6"; 
nom.  plur.  ci,  those  who,  20ai;  28  a'"; 
29  &™;  ci-bure,  as  many  as,  A  17;  com- 
pare CM. 
ci,conj.,if;  cf.  Skr.  c«?,  lOo";  Ma"";  206i; 
31  J";   33ai,  6^ ;    41  5i-™;  clyii,   and   if, 

37  6ui. 

eira,  subst.,  shedding,  cf.  Skr.  ^v;  askicira, 

shedding  of  tears,  24  a". 
cittya,   loanword,  Skr.   catty  a;    gen.  sing. 

cittyd,  296";  cittye,  22  a'^ ;  caittyd,  A  26. 
civara,  loanword,  Skr.  clvara,  a  robe ;  aco. 

sing,  civara,  4  tf" ;  civara,  4  6";   5  6". 
erra,  pron.,  of  what  kind ;  crra  ma/ihnamda, 

like   as,    just   as,    42  a"' ;    crrmhma,   as, 

41  6i". 
cu,  interrogative-relative  pronoun  ;   used  as 

an  interrogative,  which,  what ;  nom.  sing. 

cu,   39  6";  cu  hard,  what  matter?  why? 

12  651;    16  ai;     38  6"(/t«r«);    viiih.  Una 
added,  116";   16  6"' ;  cu  mani,  a  particle 
of  interrogation,    15  6";     166i^;     17  6i 
1 8  fti ;  cu  nara  va,  what  now  then,  used  to 
iT&nAB,i& kah-pmiarvadah,  146";  29a"-i": 
cu pdtcd,  the  same,  A  3;  cm  vdtcd,  36  6'" 
cue  [cu-e)  saittd,  what-to  thee    appears 
what   dost  thou  think?    116"';     12  6"' 
14  ai";    1 5  a",  6" ;   16  6";    18  a* ;   19  a" 
20  6"    {snaitla);    22  6";    23  ai;    33  6™ 
34  6i;   40  ai;   cr<3  seWa,  the  same,  38  ai"^ 
eve  sai,  the  same,  37  a'^';    used  as  a  re- 
lative  particle   or   pronoun ;    nom.    sing. 
cM,26i-i->';  ll6iii;  ISfliii;  16aiv;  176i-^; 
1 8  aiii ;     19  ai-  ii,  6i^' ;       2 1  ai^';      2  2  6"i-  iv ; 
23  6i";  24  6i;  27ai^,  6i-i^;  28aii;   32  a'^, 
6ii-iv;  33aii,6iii;   34ai-ii-iv;  36  6i-'';  38  6i; 
39ai,  6i'>';  40  6iiiii;  43  6i ;    A3;   4;   6; 
18;    20;   21;    22;    23;    24;    25;    27; 
28;  29;   30;  33;  tea,  A  17;  ace.  sing. 
cu,   19  6i-i";     nom.    plur.   cu,  9  6i-iiiii; 

1 3  ai^' ;  24  5";  25  aii ;  30  6ii-  iii;  38  ai; 
A3;  in  most  of  these  instances  it  is 
possible  to  explain  cu  as  a  conjunction,  or 
like  Skr.  yat,  English  '  as  regards  ',28  a™  ; 
in  many  cases  cu  is  probably  used  as  a  con- 
junction, that,  when,  so  that,  if,  because, 
126i;  146iii;  15aiv,6i;  16a"iii;  196ii; 
20  6i;  23aiv,  6ii;  25  6i^';   27aiii;    33  ai^; 

38  6iii ;  39  ail ;  41  jiii ;  43  ajii;  with  enclitic 


pronoun,  ewe,  when  his,  33  5i;  when  some 
one,  29a"i;  cuai,  when  now  some  one, 
29  ail ;  cu-hura,  as  great  as,  used  to 
translate  Skr.  ydvant ;  nom.  sing,  cu- 
hura,  2  6iii ;  nom.  plur.  cu-burd,  9  a'^ ;  aco. 
plur.  cu-hura,  A  24;  cu-ttira,  how  far,  how 
much,  6  ai ;  cu-ttird,  7  6i ;  cu-ttard,  6  ai^. 


da,  subst.,  law,  religion,  Zd.  data ;  nom. 
sing,  dd,  1 5  a"i ;  1 7  aii ;  19  ^ii.  iv,  Ji.  ii ; 
216iv;  22aii\  6iv  ;  24  aiv,  U  ;  27  6i; 
39  6iii;  40  ai;  A  18;  29;  ace.  sing,  dd, 
246ii;  28aiT;  29aiT;  A  2;  3;  gen.  sing. 
dd  hrriya,  in  love  of  the  law,  3  ai^ ;  dd 
mra,  in  the  law,  15a";  40  Ji^;  the  fuller 
form  data  is  sometimes  used;  nom.  sing. 
data,  2  6iii;  3ai;  39  6i^;  data,  16  aii; 
17  6iii;  19  6ii;  226'";  with  suffixed  I, 
ddt'i,  14  6ii  ;  ace.  sing,  data,  1  6ii. 

dadara,  see  didird. 

daha,  subst.,  a  man,  cf.  Zd.  daliyu ;  nom. 
sing,  daha,  21  aii;  23  6ii;  28  6i;  gen.  sing. 
dahd,  2 1  ai' ;  cf.  hu-dihuna. 

dariivau,  subst.,  wild  animal,  used  to  trans- 
late inrga,  A  26  (probably  miswritten  for 
damvdm,  gen.  plur.). 

darmaha,  see  dharmaha. 

dasa,  subst.,  work  treatise,  used  to  trans- 
late jaaryaya,  A  3. 

dasau,  numeral,  ten;  loc.  dasvd,  12a"i; 
damsvd,  A  33. 

dasta,  subst.,  hand,  Old  Pers.  dasta;  ace. 
sing,  dastd,  5  6iii ;  instr.  sing,  dastd-na, 
A  23  ;  uncertain,  dasti,  42  6". 

data,  see  dd. 

datinai,  adj.,  belonging  to,  connected  with, 
the  law;  nom.  sing,  ddtinai,  23ai';  ddii- 
ddvme,i.e.  ddtinai  or  dd/vmai,  38  a"i ;  nom. 
plur.  ddtijd,  35  aii-  iii^  Jiii.  iv. 

debiii,  unidentified,  A  24. 

deda,  see  di. 

dharma,  loanword,  Skr.  dharma,'La.w,  a  con- 
ditioned tiling;  nom.  sing.  (^Aarma,  32a"-i', 
6il-  i^' ;  33  aii,  jiii;  dharma,  1  7  ¥"■■ ;  18  aiii ; 
38  6i-';  39  ai";  nom.  plur.  dharma,  40  Ji; 
instr.  plur.  dharmyau-jsa,  17  6i ;  gen. 
plur.  ddharmd,  2  a' ;  with  a  postposition, 


VAJKACCHEDIKA  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTRA     337 


dharmdm  vim,   in  the  dharmas,   20  a^^ ; 

26  6"! ;  dharmamnci  vJra,  11a"*. 
dharmaha,   subst.,    loanword,   Skr.  dhar- 

matd,    the    being    law    or    right ;    nom. 

sing,  darmaha,   38  a"';   instr.  sing,  rf/iar- 

mahe-jsa,  38  a™. 
ddharmakaya,  loanword,  Skr.  dharmakdya, 

the  body  of  the  law,  2  a*"- 
dharmaparyaya,  S<kr.  loanword,  a  religious 

work ;   aco.  dharmaparydyd,   14  5';    gen. 

dharmapari/dyii ,  16  a"'. 
dharmasamna,    loanword,    Skr.   dharma- 

saiiijnd,  idea  of  dharma,  40  5*. 
ddharmaviga,  loanword,  Skr.  dharmavega, 

the  excitement  of  the   law;   instr.   sing. 

ddliarmaviga-na,  24  0". 
dhyaihnije,  adj.,  belonging  to,  connected 

with  dhydna,  A  38. 
di,  Zd.  day,  to  see  ;   3rd  pers.  sing,  present 

fZa?"«a,  27  ftiv;  28 a*;  426"-;  dittn,2i,  a'^'^; 

3rd  pers.  plur.  deda,  38  a'-";    3rd  pers. 

plur.  present  middle  dydri,  41  fti-  "' ;  past 

part.   pass,  dya,    14a";     28  a'^;    future 

part.  pass,  dydnd,  28  a";  dydihnd,  12  6"'; 

13  a";     23  a";     27  6'^^;    37  Ji-";    38  ai ; 

40  a™;  dydmna,   38  a"!. 
didamda,  adj.,  such,  of  that  kind,  20  hK 
didira,  adj.,  so  much,  so  many;  nom.  plur. 

didira,  21a";  ace.   plur.  didira,  286"'; 

adverb,  so  much,  so,  didira,  24  a'^;  dddird, 

10a";  daddrd,  2  fti^. 
didrrama,  adj.,  such,  of  that  kind,  nom. 

sing,  didrrama,  30  a*  (the  Skr.  has  asttbha); 

dddrrdma,  296"';  gen.  plur.  didrrdmmdm, 

13  ai'*'  ;  cf.  ttrdmma. 
dijs,  to  keep,  to  preserve,  used  to  translate 

Skr.  dhdraya;  present   1st  pers.  middle, 

dijsi,  22  a"';  39  6'";  3rd  pers.  sing.  (Ziysffe, 

A  2  ;  perhaps  miswritten  diysedd,  43  6"  ; 

with  suffixed  l,  diysdai,  43  a" ;  conjunc- 
tive 3rd  pers.  sing,  dijsdti,  2  6"';  216*; 

dljsdte,    A3;     3rd    pers.    plur.    dijsddi, 

28ai^;    29  6'";    30  6"';  dijsdmde,  A  3; 

imper.  dijsd,  39  6";  dijsi,  22  6'. 
Dipamkara,  n.  pr.,  the  Buddha  DTpamkara; 

gen.  or  abl.  Dljpamkard,   19  a'";   30a"; 

32  ai-^;     Dvpamgard,    19  6';     Dlpahara, 

19  6™. 
disa,  loanword, Skr.  diid,  a  region,  a  country; 


nom.  sing,  diia,  22  a' ;  29  a"';  A  26  ;  diid, 

216";  gen.  sing,  disd,  12  ai;  diia,  29  6"; 

loc.   sing,  dikwm,  22  ai ;    diUna,  A   26 ; 

diiand,  39  ai'^ ;  loc.  plur.  dihd,    12aiii; 

diha,  A  33. 
ditta,  see  di. 
divina,  subst.,  a  human  being,  a  mortal ; 

perhaps   borrowed  from  Skr.   dehin;    of. 

however    Old    Irish  doe,  i.  e.   *dhavio,   a 

mortal;  gen.  ■plar.  dtvindna,  44 a'^, 
diysdai,  diysed'a,  see  dijs. 
drrai,  numeral,  three,  Zd.  drdyo  ;  ace.  drrai, 

1  6i-ii;  5ai";  loc.  drrayvd,  30  ai;  drbddva, 

in  (or,  belonging  to)  tlie  three  times,  1  6i. 
drravya,  loanword,  Skr.  dravya,  substance, 

43  oi. 
drruja,  subst.,  lie,  Zd.  drujo;  nom.  drruja, 

13ai;   276i;  drruihjd,  33ai^ 
duskara,  adj.,  difficult  of  accomplishment, 

marvellous,  probably  borrowed  from  Skr. 

duskara;  nom.  Ang.  duskard,  56i^';  25ai^'; 

duskara,  24a'ii;  instr.  sing,  duskare-jsa, 

25  oii. 
dvasse,    numeral,    twelve    hundred,    A   1  ; 

dvdsi,  4  ai. 
dvavaradirsa,  numeral,   thirty-two ;  nom. 

dvdvaradirsa,  23aiii;    dvdradirsd,  23  6'; 

instr.  dvdradirsau  (i.e.  °sau),  23  ai ;  40  aii 

(written  dvdradiradirsau). 
dya,  seen,  see  di. 
dyariima,     subst.,     view,    belief,     opinion, 

39aiiii;  42  6i;  A  23. 

E 

eysamnai,    subst.,    a    prince  ;    ace.   sing. 
eysdihnai,  A  2  ;  voc.  eysdihnd,  A  3. 

G 

gabhira,  adj.,  loanword,  Skr.  gahhira,  1  ¥'' ; 

go'ikhJurd,  24  ai''. 
gah'a,  subst.,  a  stanza,  Zd.  gddd ;  ace.  sing. 

gdhd,   16  6i;   216i;    366iv;   406iv;   gaha, 

23  b";  ace.  plur.  gdha,  38  ai ;  41  ai^. 
Gamg'a,  n.  pr.,  the  river  Gaiiga;  gen.  or 

loc.  sing,  gamgd,  21  ai;    23  6ii;    28  6ii ; 

gaga,  A  15. 
gandharva,    loanword,    Skr.    gandharva, 

a    Gandharva ;    gen.    plur.    gandharvdm, 

A  40  ;  gamddharvami,  44  ai''. 


338 


VOCABULAKY  TO 


ganiSta,   subst.,  moisture,  translates  sam- 

sveda ;  loc.  sing,  ganiitd,  9  6'. 
gara,  subst.,  mountain,  Zd.  gairi ;  nom.  sing. 

garci,   20  6";    gara,   206'";    instr.   sing. 

garnam,  A  31 ;  gen.  sing,  gara,  A  21. 
garklia,  unidentified  word,  2  6" ;    perhaps 

an  adverb,  altogether;  garkhustd,  il  a" ; 

garJchye,  A  21. 
gitti,  apparently  inf.  of  verb ;  perhaps  corre- 
sponding to  Zd.  gatte ;  pari  gitti,  he  might 

cause  to  go  [1],  27  6". 
grauna,    subst.,    a    garland ;    instr.  plur. 

graunyau  (perhaps  grautyau),  A  3. 
grulea,  subst.,  sand,  compare  English  grits, 

Lithuanian  grildas ;  instr.  plur.  gruioyau- 

sye,  (like)  the  sands,  210";  23  6";  28  6" ; 

grltcesye-jsa,  A  15. 
guna,    subst.,   characteristics,    marks,    Zd. 

gaona;  nom.  plur.  gfwma,  23  a"',  6";  27 a^; 

gen.  plur.  gUna,  116*;  aguna,  non-marks, 

23  a";  iOctUi. 
gunaaparamitta,    loanword,    Skr.    apari- 

mitaguna,  unmeasured  virtue;  gen.  plur. 

gunaaparamitta   samcayd,    heap    of   un- 
measured virtues,  name  of  a  world,  A  2 ; 

gunaaparamittasamcayd,  the  same,  A  6. 
gurs,  to  address ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  past  gurste, 

A  2  ;  gusfe,  36  a"i. 
gu^taija,  adj.,  made  of  flesh ;  cf.  Phi.  gost, 

34  6";  guklji,  the  same,  34 6';  the  form 

is  nom.  plur. 
gva,  subst.,  ear ;  loc.  sing,  gvamna,  A  26. 
gvana,  perhaps  part,  of  base  corresponding 

to  Zd.  git,   that  can   be  realized,  42a"; 

44a';  gvamna,  43  6" ;  cf.  hugva/na. 
gyasta,  subst.,  a  venerable  one,  a  god,  divine, 

Tidi.  yacata;  gen.  sing,  ^yaste, 296';  gyasta, 

216";  nom.  plur.  gyasta,  A  40;  used  as 

first  part  of  compounds,  gyasta-,  44  a"i ; 

common   in  the  phrase  gyastdnd  gyasta 

baysa,  the  venerable   of  venerables   (the 

god  of  gods),  the  exalted,  used  to  denote 

the  Buddha ;  see  haysd. 
gyastumSa,   adj.,  belonging  to  the  gods, 

divine,  nom.  plur.  g'?/os<itTOwa, 34 6'" ;  35a*. 


iia,  adv.,  denoting  the  direction  towards,  cf. 
Zd.   a ;    A  23  ;    hd   ni   bajaitti,    is    not 


destroyed  (?),  41  a"' ;  hd  ni  haitd,  does 
not  come  up  against,  37  a"';  hdmanamnd, 
praiseworthy,  22a";  39a";  hd  rvaidd, 
43  a",  6";  hd  yan,  to  realize,  effect, 
24  6";  28  6";  41  ai";  A  4. 

haea,  pron.,  somebody,  anybody,  A  17. 

had,  to  sit,  Zd.  had ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  present, 
htka,  38  6'. 

hada,  adv.,  thus,  so ;  used  like  Skr.  eva  in 
order  to  add  emphasis,  38  6"- i";  hadi, 
10a"i;  136i";  226';  246*;  3l6"i;  39  6iv; 
41  ai- ",  6"  ;  44ai,  6* ;  A  40 ;  hadd,  10  6*"; 

12  6";   16ai;   18  6*;  hade,  16  6". 
hada,    subst.,    day,    in   hrru-hadd,   in   the 

morning,  4  a";  28  6";  ivahadd,  at  noon, 

28  6". 
hadaina,  wandering ;  see  harkjsa. 
hajva,    adj.,    wise,    knowing;    instr.   sing. 

hajva  hvadd-na,  3  a*" ;  nom.  plur,  hajva, 

13  6*". 

hajvattetinai,  adj.,  consisting  of  know- 
ledge ;  nom.  sing,  hajvattetmai,  35  6"; 
obi.  hajvattetije,  A  39  ;  nom.  plur.  hajvat- 
tetljd,  35  a*v. 

halai,  subst.,  direction,  quarter,  place ;  ace. 
sing,  halai,  Sa*-***,  6*";  12a*;  276*i; 
41  a*;  A  2;  ace.  plur.  hdld,  6a**;  halai- 
ydstd,  according  to  Leumann  instead  of 
halai  hdstd,  in  the  direction,  3  6"*. 

hama,  adj.,  same,  united;  Zd.  hama;  obi. 
hamye,  A  7  ;  8  ;  9  ;  10  ;  11  ;  12  ;  14  ; 
1 5  ;  hammye,  A  1 4. 

hamada,  adv.,  in  any  way;  at  all  times, 
always,  14  6***^;  15  a";  A  30;  31;  32; 
hamdd,  1 3  6". 

hamamga,  adj.,  like,  equal,  A  31  ;  written 
hdmagi,  A  15. 

haihbar,  to  fill,  Zd.  hampar;  gerund  ham- 
beri,  15  6";  hambira,  21a***;  36  a*^;  harh- 
biri,  40  6***;  past  part,  hambadd,  A  28; 
hambadam,  A  32. 

haihbis,  to  put  together,  to  compose;  3rd 
pers.  sing,  past  hambistd,  2  a*''. 

haiiibisa,  subst.,  a  heap,  collection ;  nom, 
sing,  hambisd,  1 1  6*^' ;  12  6**;  16  a*-  *** ; 
A  30  ;  31 ;  with  suffixed  pronoun  I,  ham- 
bisai,  24  a*;  31a*';  ace.  sing,  hambisd, 
15  6*T;  29 a***;  41  a*;  instr.  sing,  ham- 
hisd-na,  14  a**;  286*. 


VAJRACCHEDIKl  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTRA     339 


haihdar,  to  support,  to  favour,  Zd.  Jiamdar ; 
nom.    plur.    hamdadd,    Tai";    hamddda, 

haihdara,  subst.,  favour;  nom.  sing,  with 
suffixed  I,  hamddrai,  36  6'" ;  instr.  sing. 
hamddrd-jsa,  6  a";  haihdara-jsa,  7U; 
hamddrd-jsa,  8  b^. 

haihdara,  pron.,  another,  Zd.  aretora ;  obi. 
sing.  Immdarye,  19ai;  gen.  plur.  harh- 
dardihnd,  216";  hamdarydmnd,  41  ai ; 
harhdiryarii,  16  6';  hamdardnu,  23  6"'; 
haihdard,  29  a™. 

hamgri,  part.,  assembled,  arrived,  present, 
5  6i. 

hamgiijsa,  adv.,  anywhere,  A  1 7. 

haihjsa,  to  go  along,  to  set  out,  cf.  Zd.  ham- 
jam  ;  present  1  st  pers.  middle,  hamjsye, 
3  a"' ;  present  part,  hamjsedai,  i.  e.  harii- 
jsarhdai,  32  a™ ;  instrumental,  hamjsa- 
mdai-na,  9 a'";  hamjsadai-na,  7a^;  8a"; 
liajsamdai-na,  40  a^^ ;  hadai-na,  8  6'^. 

haihjse,  subst.,  start,  effort,  A  4. 

hamkhiysa,  subst,  enumeration,  counting, 
cf.  Zd.  -)(sd ;  nom.  sing.  hakJnysd,  A  32 ;  loc. 
sing./iamMilaj/sa^/a,  produced  in  enumera- 
tion, enumerated,  9  a*^ ;  liamMilysd  masd, 
as  much  as  can  be  counted,  31  a". 

hamphu,  to  be  provided  with,  together 
with;  3rd  pers.  sing,  past  hamjihve, 
17  aiiiii-i^,  6*;  past  part.  Aany>/i«a,  14a"i; 
25  a",  6";   28  fii. 

hamrrasta,  adv.,  all  right,  altogether,  3  ai"; 
41  6i;"44a". 

hamtsa,  preposition,  with,  together  with, 
cf.  Zd.  haca ;  the  governed  word  is  put  in 
the  instrumental,  4ai;  9  6"-"i;  2l6iv; 
29  ai'';  hamtsa,  9  6ii;  hatsa,  A  1. 

hanas'a,  subst.,conoeption,  idea,  25ai;  42  aii. 

bar,  pron.,  all,  Pers.  har;  har-hiid,  all  and 
every,  lOai;  30  aii,  jii  j  40  Ji ;  A  26  ; 
gen.  harbiSdmiid,  3  6ii- 

hara,  see  hdrd. 

hariys,  to  be  frightened,  to  tremble,  cf.  Pers. 
hirds ;  3rd  pers.  plur.  present  harlysdri, 
25  aiii. 

haru,  subst.,  a  merchant,  cf.  haur ;  gen. 
sing,  hdrii,  4  ai ;  A  1 . 

haskama,  subst.,  a  collection,  heap ;  ace. 
sins',  haskama,  36  6iii, 


hasta,  num.,  eight,  A3;  4 ;  6 ;  loc.  hastva, 

A  17. 
hasta,  num.,  eighty,  Zd.  astditi,  30  6';  A  8; 

is. 

hastama,  adj.,  best,  excellent,  Zd.  hastdma; 

nom.  sing,  hastamd,  22a";  written,  ham- 

asiammd,,  39  6'. 
hast'a,  adv.,  there,  in  that  place,  5  a\  6"' ; 

cf.  Zd.  ardda. 
hatcanak'a,  part.,  subduing,  overpowering, 

A  2. 
hatha,  adj.,  true,  Zd.  haidya,  27  ai'-iii,  6i; 

33  aiv, 
haiida,  num.,  seven,  Zd.  hapia ;  instr.-abl. 

plur.    haudyau,     15  6i;    21  a^ii;    36  ai^; 

40  6iii ;  A  28  ;  30  (miswritten  haudydm). 
hauparahauda,  num.,  seventy-seven,  A  9. 
haur,  to  give ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  present  hddd, 

28  aii;  Udi,  116iii;   36  6i;  40  6iii;  hida, 

12  6ii;     15  6ii;    16  ai-^;    21  aiii;    28  6iv; 

hedd,  A  31  ;   3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  hauri, 

A  28;    pres.  pai-t.  haurdka,   llJi;    past 

part,  haudi,   6  6iii ;    hauda,   7  b";    8  6i ; 

A  28 ;    fut.    participle    pass,    haurdnd, 

1 1  ai^' ;    haurdriind,   1 1  ai-  i',  6i ;     1 2  6iii  ; 

20 6i;  27 ai. 
haura,   subst.,  a  gift ;    nom.   sing,  haurd, 

1 1  (ji.  ii.  iu.  iv_  Ji.  ii ;   27ai;  A  28  ;    haura, 

12  6iii;  20  ai^';  aco.  sing,  haurd,  ll6iii; 
1 2  6ii ;  21  aiii ;  28  aii,  jiv ;  A  28  ;  hauram, 
156ii;  16aiv;  366i;  40  6iii;  with  suffixed 
I,  haurl,  A  31. 

hauramma, subst. ,giving,besto wing;  instr.- 
abl.  sing,  haurdmme-jsa,  6  6iii ;  7  6i^ ;  8  6ii, 

ha'utta,  unidentified,  perhaps  3rd  pers.  sing, 
pres.,  keeps,  has,  43  a";  cf.  Zd.  hap. 

hauva,  subst.,  influence,  power,  conse- 
quence; instr.  sing,  hauvi-jsa,  A  34  ;  35  ; 
36;  37;  39;  hauva-jsa,  A  Si  ;  36;  38; 
39 ;  miswritten  hauviba-jsa,  A  38  ;  gen. 
sing,  hauvi,  A  36 ;  37 ;  39  ;  hauva, 
A  34;  38  ;  hauvi-jsa,  A  35. 

hauyuda,  that  can  easily  be  done,  1 1  6i^' ; 
see  huyudd. 

hava,  subst.,  excellencj' ;  hdva-anu^amsa, 
used  to  translate  gunamu^amsa,  A  4. 

hayaramdai,  part.,  reposing,  dwelling,  liv- 
ing; nom.  plur.  hayaraihdd,  A  34;  36;  37; 
39 ;  hayiramdd,  A  38  ;  hamramyadd,  A  35. 


3  40 


VOCABULARY  TO 


haysna,  to  wash ;  3rd  pcrp.  sing,  past 
haysnatii,  4  6". 

herstaya,  unidentified  word,  perhaps  '  at 
all'',  38  a". 

hi,  emphatic  particle,  11  6^. 

hama,  to  become,  to  be ;  cf.  Zd.  ham-i, 
Wa;)(i  hiimilin ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  present 
middle  hamdta,  10  b^;  hamete,  38  6"' 
3rd  pers.  plur.  himdre,  A  4;  17;  24 
26;  hcimdn',  416";  ^amari,  3  a";  13  6' 
14  «'■  "•  iii;  21  a"- "',  6™;  28  a",  6';  29  6"' 
hvamari,  25  a";  2Dd  pers.  sing,  conjunc- 
tive hama,  33  a"'  (used  with  the  meaning 
of  a  future) ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  himdte,  A  3  ; 
20;  21;  22;  24;  27;  29;  miswritten 
hihamdte,  A  28;  andmafe,  A23;  hamate, 
A  6;  18;  25;  hamdve,  A  16  ;  ha'mdve, 
A  17;  liumatii,  lOa'^';  hamdti,  10  a'"; 
14  6'";  31 6»';  32  a";  3rd  pers.  sing.  opt. 
hime,  A  26 ;  29 ;  30  ;  Itimi,  A  28  ;  hiima., 
10  a'T ;  14  6"  ;  19  aif ;  21  6"  ;  25  6' ; 
316'^;  37  a";  43  a"' ;  liainu,  14  6"-"; 
176";  196";  22a';  276";  29a"';  43«'; 
hame,  10  6'";  17o';  hame,  24  a';  A  17; 
31;  32;  hama,  18  6';  hama,  18a'- '^; 
hamiya,2&a^;  37  6'^;  3rd  pers.  sing,  past 
hamye,  4  6";  44a";  hamyeta,  46';  3rd 
pers.  plur.  hamya,  5  a". 

hara,  hira,  subst.,  thing,  matter,  object ; 
nom.  sing,  hdra,  7  a'";  12  6';  16a'; 
hira,  8  o^^' ;  12  6';  cu  hnrii,,  what  matter'? 
why?  12  6";  16  a';  cm  Aera,  38  6";  cu 
hira  kidna,  11  6'';  m  hara  kina,  16  6'"; 
ci  hard  kidna,  10  a"',  6';  29  51";  31  Jiv 
[kina) ;  ce  herd  kina,  38  6'";  aoc.  sing. 
hard,  27  6"';  gen.  sing,  hard,  41  6"'; 
hard  vira,  in  an  object,  28  a'' ;  nom.  plur. 
hdra,  34  a"-  i'' ;  gen.  plur.  hirdrhnd,  6  6' ; 
7  6" ;  aharma,  devoid  of  objects,  used 
to  translate  Skr.  anu2>adhi^esa,  10a'; 
316";  A  29. 

Mna,  subst.,  army,  A  22. 

his,  to  be  sounded,  to  be  heard;  3rd  iieri-. 
sing.  opt.  hisl,  A  26. 

hivi,  adj.,  connected  with,  belonging  to; 
nom.  sing,  hiyai,  A  30;  fem.  hivijd,  25  6'; 
ace.  sing,  hlvl,  A  40;  nom.  plur.  Inya, 
44  5";  aoc.  plur.  hlya,  A3;  4  ;  6  ;  gen. 
plur.  hlydm,  A  32. 


hiyausea,  unidentified  word,  2  a". 

hiyaustyai,  subst.,  perhaps  meaning  '  at- 
tachment ' ;  nom.  sing,  hiyaustyai,  1 5  a". 

hudihuna,  adj.,  belonging  to  good  men, 
used  to  translate  Skr.  mahdpurusa,  cf. 
ddhd;  hudihuna,  23  a'";  hudihuna, 
23  6i. 

hugvana,  perhaps,  that  can  be  easily 
realized,  416"';  see  gvdna. 

hujsad'a,  adj.,  western,  12  a"  (uncertain, 
perhaps  nihujsddd). 

huua,  subst.,  a  dream,  Zd.  -^'afna,  Pali 
supina  ;  ace.  sing,  hund,  42  6'"''. 

hus,  to  sleep,  Zd.  f^afs ;  pres.  part,  husam- 
dd,  42  6iv. 

husa,  unidentified  word,  3  a' ;  perhaps  liu, 
well,  and  wt  for  so,,  he. 

huynda,  that  can  easily  be  done,  1 1  6"' ; 
huyudi,  12  a"',  6";  cf.  hauyudi. 

hvada,  past  part,  of  verb  corresponding  to 
Zd.  yi^^ar,  to  eat ;  hvadd  kJidysd,  after  the 
food  had  been  eaten,  4  5'. 

hvadana,  see  hve. 

hvamari,  they  are  ;    see  hninii. 

hvaiiida,  see  hve. 

hvan,  to  say,  to  speak,  cf.  Zd.  -)('an ;  1  at 
pers.  sing,  present  act.  hvdrdmd,  8  6'" ; 
3rd  pers.  sing,  present  passive  livvJO, 
17a"',  6i;  hrviiAla^^;  Amde,  386"';  3rd 
pers.  plur.  hranari,  3  a";  23  5';  44  6'"; 
3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  ht-a.i'u,  39  a' ;  mis- 
written /jitril,  19  6'^' ;  hvdne,20a^;  27  a"; 
hvCind,  27  a'";  hvailiye,  38  6';  2nd  pers. 
sing,  imper.  hrdi'iei.,  13  6';  3rd  pers.  sing, 
past  live,  5  6'";  7  «"';  8  a'" ;  9  a" ;  12  a'- 
"•"•,6"';  13a"',  6';  146';  156i-iv;  16a"'; 
17a'",6i";  18ai-iii;  1 9  „«■  iv^  6"  ;  21ai; 
22 a'",  6"';  23  a'-'"  ;  24a'";  25  a';  31  a", 
6';  32  6"- IV;  33  6"-";  34  6"- "'■'";  35  a'- 
ii.  W   ji. ui. iv ;  36  a',  6";   37aiT,  6';   3 8 a'; 

39  6"- "i;  40aiii-"-;  41a";  44  a";  3rd 
pers.  plur.  hvdriuh'i,  A  7  ;  8  ;  9  ;  10  ;  11 ; 
12;  hvdmrla,  A  14;  hrddd,  25  a''',  6'; 
hradej,  A  15;  perf.  part.  pass,  hva,  3  6'; 
15  n"  ;  22  6'";  23  a';  27  6^ ;  34  aiv  ; 
A40;  /irata,  15a"i;  16a";  1851";  20a'i; 
22  6";     2 3  ai-f ;     33  6'";     39  a'-  "•  "i-  "' ; 

40  a'-";  gen.  Aot2/«,  7  o" ;  8  a"';  13a"; 
22  a";    32  6'- i";    39  6';    hvayai,  22  a'"; 


VAJRACCHEDIKA  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTRA     341 


25a';    fut.    part.   pass,   hvanai,    106'-"; 

32  ai";   34  ai". 
hvanai,  subst.,  saying,  words;    ace.   siug. 

hvanai,  A  40  ;  gen.  sing,  hvanai,  7  a"  ; 

8aiii;  13  a";  22  aiii-i'*',  6«;  25  a';  32  6i- 

i";  39  6'. 
hTanaka,  part.,  preaching ;  ttdhirau  hvd- 

ndkd-nii,  by  the  tathdgata,  6  a' ;    cf.  hvan 

and  ttaharai. 
hvaflamma,    subst.,    saying,    words;    gen. 

siug.  hvdndmme,  38  6", 
hvaraiii,  right ;  hvaramcaiiid,  to  the  right, 

5  a"' ;  hvaramclnd,  29  t';  hvaramdai,  adj., 

right,  5  5". 
livasta,   adj.,  probably  identical  with  Zd. 

hvd)(Sta,  well  established,  peaceful,  1  b^^. 
hve,  subst.,  a  man;  nom.  sing,  hve,  14  6"'; 

20  6i;  27  6"- i^;  33  6';  41  6^";  instr. 
sing,  hvadd-na,  3  a"' ;  gen.  sing,  hvamdd, 

2 1  6iv ;  29  6' ;  nom.  plur.  hvandd,  A  40  ; 
gen.  plur.  hvanddmna,  A3";  38;  39; 
hvaimuldrhna,  A  36  ;  hvariuldthna,  A  34  ; 
36.     "  ' 


i,  an  enclitic  pronoun,  usually  with  the 
meaning  of  an  aocus.  or  gen.  of  the  de- 
monstrative pronoun.  It  coalesces  with 
a  preceding  a  or  e  to  ai  and  with  a  to  i ; 
compare  dysdai,  A  24 ;  dysdamrjai,  A 
33  ;  baysl,  9  a" ;  12  aii-  "  ;  13  6';  14  6'; 
15  6',"  176"';  2065^1;  21ai;  23ai;  316'; 
39  6'" ;  40  a";  bi^i,  3  a' ;  A  3 ;  2 1 ;  hudarl, 
24  a';  62/attdat,  34  6"-";  35  a''-''';  huna- 
spyau-jsai,  30  6'^  ;  buspyau-jsai,  37  a' ; 
cuai,  29a'';  ddtl,  146";  hamddrai,36b^; 
hauri-ye,  A  31 ;  Miui,  8  6";  khuai,  22  a'^  ; 
khvai,  3  6';  7ai;  8  a";  39  6"';  A  21; 
maranakdll,  A  23  ;  ndrhmai,  A  3  ;  pastai, 
36  a'"  ;  firtdai,  29  0";  pracainai,  216"; 
raysi,  2  a"'  ;  saihkhalunyau-jsai,  A  3 ; 
sldmnai,  A  2  3  ;  Subhutl,  1 5  6'" ;  1 7  a" ; 
2  3  oi' ;  3  3  6'-  i"' ;  Subhuvl,  17  U^i ;  1 8  a"' ; 
19  a"',  6";  22  6"';  34  6i;  40  a'";  ttai, 
416";  A  2;  4;  ttattai,  22  b^ ;  39  b"; 
ttinai,  3  a"';  ysdrl,  A  23  ;  yudai,  5  6". 

i,  3rd  pera.  sing.  opt.  of  verb  subst.,  see  ah. 

ida,  3rd  pers.  plur.  present  of  verb  subst., 
see  ah. 


ina,  postposition,  from,  by  means  of,  42  a'^  ; 

maA;a,  form  with,  19  a"';  32  a'v  ;  makd, 

19  6iv. 
indri,   loanword,    Skr.  indriya,    organ   of 

sense,  4 1  6". 
Armayasta,  n.  pr.,  Skr.  Amitdhka,  A  25. 


jada,  loanword,  Skr.  jada,  a  fool;  nom. 
]ilur.  jada,  38  6'" ;  instr.  plur.  jadyau, 
39  a"' ;  jadau,  38  6";  gen.  Tphu:  jaddthnd, 
42  a'. 

Jaiiibviya,  loanword,  Skr.  Jambudmpa, 
name  of  a  continent,  A  3  (loc). 

jan,  to  slay,  to  hurt,  to  injure ;  3rd  pers. 
plur.  pres.  janidd,  A  24. 

jasmara,  loanword,  Skv.jdtismara,  remem- 
bering one's  previous  births,  A  17. 

jasta,  see  gyasta. 

jauni,  subst.,  overpowering,  defeat ;  nom. 
jauni,  18  6";  ace.  jauni,  1 9  a'. 

ja,  indefinite  particle,  Zd.  ciO,  41  6'-''';  cf. 
kdmiu-jd,  kustaija,  ndmu-jd ;  used  as  an 
indefinite  pronoun,  23  6"';  cl  jd  hve,  if 
any  man,  20  6';  336';  jd-va.e,  adds  em- 
phasis, and  perhaps  contains  the  particle 
vd,  4  6"  ;  cf.  -jl  in  subijl,  8  6"'. 

ji,  to  decay,  to  disappear,  Zd.  jyd ;  pres.  3rd 
pers.  plur.  jdri,  they  disappear,  30  a™ ; 
]3ast  part,  jya,  A  6  ;  ja,  A  3  ;   16. 

Jiva,  n.  pr.,  Jeta;  gen.  sing.  Jivd,  3  6^^; 
A  1. 

jiva-uasama,  subst.,  conception  of  a  living 
being,  18  6';  see  ndsdma. 

jivasamna,  loanword,  Q]i.r.  jivasamjiid,  the 
idea  of  a  living  being,  14a";  256"'; 
26  ai";  32  a'  {-samnd). 

jsa,  a  sufiix  of  uncertain  meaning,  added  to 
nouns  and  pronouns  in  order  to  form  an 
instrumental  or   ablative.     The  noun  is 
used  in  the  singular  oblique  form  in  1  6' 
3a'i-";  5  a";   6  a",  6'";   7  6'-";   8  6'- " 
9  a",  6"'-";   12  6";  186"';  25  a",   6" 
37  6i.ii.iii.iT;    38ai";    A  15;    32;    34 
35  ;   36 ;    38  ;    39  ;   it  is  put  in  the  instr 
plur.  in  4  o" ;  15  a",  6" ;  17  a",  6' ;  2 1  a"! 
23  ai-";   26  6';   27  6';   36  a'^;   38  a",  6" 
39a"';    40aM,  6i";    A  1;    3;    15;    30 
it  is  put  in  the  gen.  plur.  28a";    with 


342 


VOCABULARY  TO 


proDouns    we    find    ku-jsa,    wherefrom 

24  a";    40 a';    muhujsa,  by    me,   10  a* 

17  a\  5";  18  a'-  ";  19aii;  24  a}^ ;  30  i" 

muhuih-jsa,  A  1 ;  uhu-jsa,  by  thee,  6  a" 

{ahu-jsa),  6" ;    7  6™;    when  followed  by 

the  enclitic  pronoun  l,  the  suffix  becomes 

jsai,  30  6";  37  ai;  A3;  32. 
jsa,  to  go,  Zd.  ja7n;    conj.   3rd  pers.  sing. 

jsdti,  3  a*;  j'saw,  38  6". 
jsa,    apparently    a    copulative    particle,    cf. 

Old  Pers.  ca,  A  6 ;  jsam,  A3;  23. 
jsina,   subst.,  life ;    nom.  jsma,   A3;    6 ; 

16;  a,cc.  jslna,  A  2;   6;   23;   25;   gen. 

j^ni,  A  4. 
jsus  {1),  to  delight  in ;  3rd  pers.  sing.  pres. 

jsilsta,  43  U". 
J8vaka,u.nidentifiedparticiple,  2  a";  ci.gvdna. 
juna,  subst.,  turn,  time,  -fold;  ace.  plur. 

juna,  A  3  ;  4  (miswritten  jv)  ;  6  ;  should 

probably  be  written  juna. 
jvaka,  subst.,  life,  a  living  being,  cf.  Zd. 

jva ;  jvaka-m,  about  a  living  being,  245™; 

jvdka  mra,  1 0  IP-. 
jyajsini,  adj.,  whose  life  is  exhausted ;  nom, 

plur.  jyajsinya,  A3;  cf.  ji. 


ka,  conjunction,  when,  if,  3  a";  A  3. 

kalarri,  subst.,  Skr.  kalirdja,  the  kaliking, 
25  6". 

kalpa,  loanword,  Skr.  Tcalpa,  a  period ;  aco. 
plur.  halpd,  28  6™;  gen.  plur.  haljpamnd, 
30  a". 

kama,  unidentified  word,  perhaps  borrowed 
from  Skr.  kdma,  2  a". 

kamma,  pronominal  adj.,  which,  Zd.  Aaioma; 
Aammai,  5  6^;  17  6™;  A3;  6;  22;  27; 
28;  29;  33;  Jcdmma,  5  a*;  A  16;  mis- 
written  AaMJwa,  A  17;  kdmd,  26a^;  kdma, 
17a";  256i;  Mm,  A  18;  20;  21;  23; 
24;  25;  gen.  sing. ^omi/e,  216™;  perhaps 
miswritten  ndmye,  28  a";  loc.  sing.  M- 
mamnd,  39a";  kdmna,  216";  kdna, 
A  26. 

kamu-ja,  pronoun,  any,  10a™;  13a™; 
17  6";  196*;  27  6™  (written  ndviuja)  ; 
316™;  32  a™;  33  a";  kdmmujd,  21a"; 
32  6"-";  34  ai. 


kana,  subst.,  a  drop ;  gen.  plur.  kandm,  A  32. 

Kanakamuna,  n.  pr.,  Skr.  Kanakamuni, 
name  of  a  buddha,  A  30. 

kantha,  subst.,  a  town ;  loc.  sing,  kitha, 
4  a™-  "  ;  with  suffixed  Jidsta,  kithdsta, 
into  the  town,  A  34  ;  35 ;  36 ;'  37  ;  38  ;  39. 

kara,  according  to  Leumann  a  pai'ticle; 
compare  Skr.  kila;  2  a";  kara,  38  a". 

karma,  loanword,  Skr.  karma,  work,  action ; 
nom.  plur.  karma,  30  a";  in  2  6*  we  read 
karma-cchaisa,  which  I  cannot  explain. 

karmaya,  loanword,  Skr.  karmatd,  activity, 
30  a\ 

Kasava,  n.  jor.,  Skr.  Kdsyapa,  name  of 
a  buddha,  A  30. 

kasa,  loanword,  Skr.  kdca,  cataract;  nom. 
kdsa,  41  6";  gen.  kdsa,  42  ai. 

kalte,  3rd  pers.  sing,  present  middle  of 
a  verb  used  to  translate  Skr.  ksamate, 
31aiii;  kakd,  37 a^^K 

kaulopamma,  loanword,  Skr.  kolopama, 
like  a  raft,  1 4  6'. 

khaysa,  subst.,  food,  cf.  Skr.  kfiad ;  hvadd 
khdysd,  after  be  had  eaten  his  food,  after 
the  meal,  4  fii ;  khdysna-kira,  eating  busi- 
ness, 4  6i. 

khaysmulai,  subst.,  bubble  {1),  lit.  belong- 
ing to  the  root  of  the  water  (?) ;  nom. 
plur.  kJidysmuld,  42  6ii. 

khu,  adv.,  how,  Zd.  kaOa,  Skr.  katham, 
6  5"i,  8  ai;  with  suffixed  pronoun  7,  khat, 
8  6i'' ;  with  vd  and  the  pronoun  I  added, 
khuai,  22  a^'^,  or  khvai,  7  ai ;  8  aii ;  39  5iii ; 
used  as  a  particle  of  comparison,  as,  like, 
2aiii;  16  aii;  20  6ii-iil;  42  6i-ii-iv;  in 
subordinate  sentences,  how,  8  6iii ;  so  that, 
36i;  116i;  27  ai;  406i;  41aiii;  436iii; 
with  vd  and  I,  khvai,  3  6i ;  as,  so  as,  1 4  6iii ; 
22  6iii ;  41  aiT  ;  43  aiii ;  as  when,  if,  when, 
146iv;  276iiiv;  A6;  23;  25;  26;  30; 
31 ;  32  ;  40  ;  with  vd  and  %,  khvai,  A  21 ; 
khu  burd,  as  long  as,  1 4  6iii. 

kida,  past  part.  pass,  of  kar,  to  do ;  instr. 
sing,  kid-na,  for  the  sake  of,  lOai^,  6i ; 
11  6ii;  296iv;  37ai'';  written  toa,  16  aiii, 
6iii;  20aii;  26ai^';  27ai;  Z\h^^;  32aii; 
39  ai. 

klra,  subst.,  work,  business,  Zd.  kairya,  4  6i; 
14  5iii;  nom.  plur.  kn,ra,  A  20. 


VAJRACCHEDIKA  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTRA     343 


kitha,  see  hantha. 

klai^nai,  adj.,  connected  with,  consisting  in 
the  Mesas;  ace.  sing,  klaiilnai,  19  a*; 
ace.  plur.  hlaisind,  18  a" ;  gen.  plur. 
Maisjndmnci,  6  6';  7  6> ;  klaisjiul,  1 8  6". 

klesa,  Skr.  loanword,  defilement,  evil 
passion ;  gen.  plur.  klesmi,  A  2. 

Krrakusada,  n.  pr.,  Skr.  Krakucclianda, 
name  of  a  buddha,  A  30. 

ksam,  to  wish  ;  3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  ksami, 
A  4. 

ksamautitija,  adj.,  consisting  in  forbear- 
ance ;  cf.  Zd.  ^sanmane,  and  suffixes  vat 
and  tat,  literally  therefore  'belonging  to 
the  state  of  one  who  is  in  possession  of 
forbearance',  25  6*;  ksamauttevlje,  A  36  ; 
ksamauttemji,  A  36. 

ksaihna,  loanword,  Skr.  ksana,  a  moment ; 
ace.  sing,  ksamna,  1 4  a'. 

Ksantavada,  n.  pr.,  Skr.  Ksantivddin, 
26  a". 

ksira,  subst.,  town,  cf.  Zd.  soiOra ;  the  form 
is  loc.  sing.,  3  6'^  ;  44  5"'. 

ku,  adv.,  when,  Zd.  kudd,  10  a";  14  6'; 
15  a';  with  copulative  or  emphatic  u,  ku, 
the  same,  4  a^^,  U;  5  a" ;  kuburd,  how 
far,  as  far  as,  9  6'^ ;  ku-jsa,  wherefrom, 
24  ai^;  40  a';  Z:MS?a,  where,  A  24;  kusta, 
where,  2  0";  29  ai^ ;  kustd-hurii,  wherever, 
so  far  as,  12  6i^;  ^wsta-ja,  anywhere.  Ha'; 
kustai-jd,  26  5™. 

kula,  numeral,  a  hundred  millions,  cf.  Skr. 
koti,  28  6™;  306';  ordinal  kuldna,  the 
hundred  millionth,  Zla^. 

kura,  adj.,  wrong,  false,  13  ai^;  20  a';  38  a", 
6"!;  kura,  the  same,  42  a'';  cf.  Skr.  icaiia. 

kuSala,  loanword,  Skr.  kuiala,  bliss  ;  gen. 
sing,  kuiala,  21a'i',  6''';  36  6'-"';  it  is 
possible  that  kuialdmula  should  be  con- 
sidered as  one  word ;  cf.  mula. 


laksa,     loanword,     Skr.     laksa,     hundred 

thousand,  44  6"'. 
laksanma,  loanword,  Skr.  laksana,  a  mark, 

a  characteristic  sign,  1 3  a'. 
laksanlja,  adj.,  consisting  of  marks ;  instr. 

sing.  fern,  laksanijd,  12  6'^;   376";  lak- 


samja,37U;  laksaniji ,  37 b^^ ;  laksanatji, 

376'v. 
lokapala,  Skr.  loanword,  a  class  of  gods ; 

nom.  plur.  lokapala,  A  24. 
lovadata,  loanword,  Skr.  lokadhdtu,  a  world ; 

nom.    lovaddta,    21a";     lovaddva,   A  2; 

lovadd,  A  28;  ace.  lovaddta,  15  6';  16  a'^ ; 

40  6";    lovaddta,    36  a'^;   loc.   lovadeta, 

A  6  ;  25  ;  lovadeva,  A  2. 
lovya,  loanword,  deiived  from  Skr.   loka, 

belonging  to  the  world  ;  the  word  is  nom. 

sing,  fern.,  44  a'^;  A  40. 

M 

ma,  prohibitive  particle,  not,  do  not,  1 3  6'. 

ma,  pron.,  me,  3  a'^' ;  38  a'';  gen.  sing. 
mamma,  36'";  256";  260"';  mam,  24a'v; 
25  6'"- "  ;  26  ai ;  38  6";   40  a"  ;  cf  ma. 

mahairdi,  loanword,  Skr.  maharddhika, 
possessing  magical  power ;  gen.  plur. 
maJiairdydm,  A  22. 

mahapuraf  alaksana,  loanword,  Skr.  maAa- 
purusalaksana,  the  marks  of  a  maha- 
purusa;  iustr.plxiT.mahdpnirasalaksanyau- 
jsa,  23  a";   40  a". 

mahasahasri,  loanword,  cf.  Pali  mahdsa- 
hassi,  name  of  a  world ;  gen.  sing,  mahd- 
sahasrre,  16  o'^';  mahasahasrye,  A  28; 
mahdsahasrrye,  15  6'  ;  malidsahasrya, 
36  a"'. 

maliasam.udra,  Skr.  loanword,  great  ocean  ; 
nom.  plur.  malidsamudrra,  A  32. 

mahayaihna,  loanword,  Skr.  mahdydna, 
the  great  Vehicle  ;  loc.  sing,  mahdydmna, 
8  a",  6'^;  27  a";  mahdydmna,  7  a';  mahd- 
ydna, 315'. 

Mamjusri,  nom.  propr.,  Skr.  Afanjuiri, 
name  of  a  bodhisattva;  ace.  Mamjusri, 
A  2;  -voc.  Afamjusrya,  A  2;  Majusrya, 
A  3  ;  Mamjusryam,  A  3 ;  Majusryam, 
A  4. 

mamnamda,  part.,  like,  as,  Pers.  mdnand, 
22  a';  276"-'^;  336';  430"';  mamnamda, 
4  2  a'" ;  mdnamda,  2  6";  23  6"';  28  6"; 
29  6";  TOOwmam,  20  6' ;  Tndmnadd,  A  2Q . 

mamna,  unidentified,  perhaps  meaning 
'  notion ',  43  6";  gen.  plur.  mandm,  43  cfi'^. 

man,  to  consider  ;  with  hd,  praise,  worship 
Zd.  man ;  3rd  pers.  plur.  present,  mandre 


344 


VOCABULARY  TO 


38  a";  fut.  part.  pass,  manarhnd,  22a*; 

39  «iv. 
mafiam,  see  mamna. 

manavai,    loanword,    Skr.    mdnavaJca,    a 

young  man ;  voc.  sing,  manava,  33  a'". 
mani,  a  particle,  now,  indeed,  15  &^ ;  16  6'^; 

17  6i;   lSa\ 
mara,    adj.,   here,    7  a*;  8  a",  U^' ;  9a^-^; 

31  6i;  43a",  U^ ;  A  6;  marci,  31  a^^. 
Mara,  Skr.  loanword,  the  Evil  One ;  nom. 

Mdrci,  A  22. 
marinaj  adj.,  belonging  to  Mara,  A  22. 
maranakala,  Skr.  loanword,  the  time  of 

death;  ace.  with  suffixed  t,  maranakall, 

A  23. 
masi,  subst.,  quantity,  Zd.  masah,  used  in 

compounds    like    Skr.    mdtra    with    the 

meaning  '  so  much  as ' ;  garci  niase,  big 

as  a  mountain,  A  21  ;  hamhhlysa-masa, 

so  much  as  can  be  counted,  31  a™\  tanka 

masi,    so   much    as    a   farthing,   A  28 ; 

ufmaihna  masi,  so  much  as  a  uSmdmna, 

31a"i;   37oiii. 
ma^i,  unidentified,  perhaps  '  behind  him ', 

A24. 
mata,  probably  past  part,  of  the  base  man, 

considered,  10  a*, 
mata,  subst.,  mother,  Zd.  mdtd,  1  ¥^. 
ma,   pron.,   my,    me,    18  6";    41 6"i  (mi); 

44  ai ;  of.  ma. 
mi,  a  particle  which  seems  to  add  emphasis, 

probably   connected  with    Zd.   ma;    kut 

halai  ml,  in  one  place,  5  a^'' ;  iti  mi,  then, 

24  a";  dska  ml,  tears,  24  a™;  cf.  further 

A  2;  3;  4;  23;  30. 
midana,  adj.,  merciful ;  voc.  sing,  middna, 

1*8  a"i ;    midamna,   5  6*">" ;    6  6*"*' ;    15  6"' ; 

16  ai;    \7  a^,  U^  ;    19e"',  Ji";    20&>"; 

22  6"i;   23a"i;     24ai";     31a"';     375"; 

middmna,  33  6"-"';    36  6";    40  a™;    ma- 

ddnma,  32  6". 
mista,  adj.,  great,  Zd.  masita;  nom.  sing. 

miisza,  206"-'";  26aiv;  336*;  A33;instr. 

sing,  mdsta,   316";    mistii-na,  4ai;    loc. 

sing,    mdkd,    4ai'';    miitd,    ia^;    nom. 

plur.  mista,  3  a";  6ai",  6";  7  6™;  inst. 

plur.  mistyau,  A  1. 
muhu,  pron.,  me,  Zd.  maihyd,  18  6"  ;  33a"; 

38  ai-ii ;  muhu-jsa,  by  me,  10a';  1 7  a',  6" ; 


18ai-";  19a";  24a"';  30  6";  muhum-jsa, 

Al. 
mukha,   loanword,   Skr.   murkha,  a   fool ; 

instr.  plur.  m,ukhau-jsa,  38  5"'. 
mula,  loanword,  Skr.  mula,  a  root ;  nom. 

plur.  kuiald  mula,  or  kHialdmuld,  roots 

of  bliss,  21aiv,  6"i;    aoc.  plur.   k.  mulci, 

1 3  6if ;  36  6i ;  gen.  plur.  k.  muldm,  36  5™. 
mura,  subst.,  a  bird;  gen.  plur.  murdm,  A  26. 
musa,  unidentified,  perhaps  '  afterwards ', 

42  6"  ;  cf.  ma^. 
m.usta,  subst.,  death,  destruction,   cf.  Zd. 
mar;  instr.  sing,  muhd-jsa,  25  6*'^. 

N. 

(1)  na,  na,  ni,  negative  particle,  Zd.  na;  na, 
2  a";  10a"i;  llo"J,  6";  12  5"-iv;  13  6">; 

14  a"',  6";  17  6';  18  a™ ;  19  6"- "i; 
20  a";    23a"i;   24  6i-";   25  6™;  26  6™; 

27  a";  33  a"';  34  a™;  37  6";  38  a",  6™; 
40a"i,  6i;  415";  43  5™;  A  17;  22;  34; 
37;  38;  Kn,  11a"-™;  12a";  26a™; 
415™;  43ai;  A  17;  m",  95™;  105'-"; 
lla"-™,  5i;  12  a";  136™;  14a™-iv6m; 
15ai;  17ai-™-"',  5'-™-"';  18  6";  19a"; 
20  a™-";  24  a",  5™-"';  25  a™,  5™-"'; 
26  ai".  if,    5"-  ™;     27  ai-  iii-  i^',    6i-  iii-  i'f ; 

28  a";  30  6ii;  31  5"i;  32ai-ii;  33aii,  6'^; 
37aiiii'f;  41aiii;  42aii;  43  ai ;  44  ai; 
A  17;  22  ;  27;  30;  31  ;  35;  36;  39; 
nc,  A  32  ;  nai  (not  it),  28  lA^ ;  naiye,  and 
not,  38aiv;  «a-ma,  24  6if;  na-ni,25U^; 
31  aiii;  ni-ni,  24  6";  nai-na,  14  6'"^; 
15aii;  A  17. 

(2)  na,  na,  ni,  adv.  or  particle,  now,  namely, 
especially  in  queries  ;  na,  6  a™;  7ai'^,  5™; 
20  6ii-  iii ;  na-ti,  1 1  6if ;  na-td,  1 2  ai ;  nfi, 
17  ai;  18  a';  27  ai;  ne,  126i''';  ni,  2  a"; 
13  aiii;  34^1.  37  6ii;A24;  mi-i!a,  1 2  ai^' ; 
cf.  mani,  and  Zd.  nd,  na. 

(3)  na,  particle,  perhaps  connected  with 
(2)  na ;  commonly  with  the  meaning  of 
an  instrumental,  4ai,  6iii;  6  ai-ii-iv,  6i-ii-i^; 
7  ai-  if,  6i-  ii-  iii ;  8  ai-  ii-  if,  6i-  iii-  if  ;  9  ai'-  iii, 
6ii ;    10  aif ,  6i-  if ;     11  ai-  if,  6ii ;    1 4  aii ; 

15  aiii;  16  aii,  Jii.  iii;  I7a,ii-lii;  18  6ii  ; 
20aii,  6iv;  2l6ii-if;  22  5i-iii;  23ai^6if; 
24  aii;  25  Ji;  26  aif,  6if ;  27ai,5i;  286i-"i; 


VAJEACCHEDIKA  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTEA     345 


29oi,6i-iv;  30aii;  Slb^i" ;  32  a^^^,  U^ ; 
33  ai- «,  6u ;  37  a"' ;  33  ai  (-we)  ;  38  a"' 
(-wa);  39ai-"-iii;  40a'iv,  fei;  42  6"; 
43aiv,  Jii;  44ai.  A7;  8;  9;  10;  11; 
12  ;  14  ;  15  ;  23  ;  31  ;  it  is  used  with  the 
sense  of  an  abl.  in  5  Ji ;   19  6"i. 

na,  to  take ;  Srd  pers.  sing,  past  ndti,  4  a™; 
3rd  pers.  plur.  ndmda,  A  40 ;  past  part. 
nd,  19  aiii- "',  6i-  "•  iv  ;  41  aiv. 

nabusda,  unidentified  word,  2  6" ;  probably 
Srd  pers.  sing.  pres.  of  a  verb  meaning  '  to 
sweep  away';  cf.  Zd.  huj,  haoia. 

nai,  particle,  now,  related  to  (2)  na  and 
perhaps  derived  from  na-ti,  used  in 
queries,  15aiiij  iQaii;  22  6ii;  23a"; 
32rtiii;   33  6Ui;   37  6i;  40  a'. 

nama,  loanword,  Skr.  ndma,  name ;  aoc. 
ndma,  22  a"'^  6*;  39  fti"-  i''' ;  A  3  ;  ndmma, 
A  6  ;  ndmmath,  A  3  ;  nauma,  A  4  ;  with 
Buflixed  t,  ndmmai,  A  3  ;  often  used  ad- 
verbially, by  name,  namely,  2  6i- " ;  18  a"' ; 
22aiii,  Ji;   26  aii;  33  ctiii;  34  a*;  ndmma, 

39  6"-iii;  A  2. 

namas,  loanword,  Skr.  namasya,  to  bow 
down  to;  1st  jiers.  sing.  pres.  nama- 
summci,  l&iii-ni;  3rd  pers.  plur.  past 
naraasydda,  5  a". 

namaysa,  subst.,  perhaps  borrowed  from 
Skr.  namasyd,  reverence,  worship  ;  instr. 
naniaysd-na,  17  a". 

nama,  pron.,  any  one ;  gen.  sing,  ndmye, 
28  a"  ;  with  the  indefinite  ja  in  ndnivja, 
any,  27  J*";  perhaps  miswritten  for Mnia. 

nap,  loanword,  Skr.  jndpya,  to  be  made 
known;  3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  middle  ndjoiya, 
10  a*;  pres.  part,  ndpamdai,  A  23;   26; 

40  ;  nom.  plar.  nydparhdd,  15  a"', 
nara,  adv.,  again,  now,  14  6";  15  a';  16  a"; 

29a"-"i ;  41  6";  A  22. 

uaram,  to  go  out,  to  emanate  from ;  past 
part,  naramda,  16  6™. 

naryajsave,  loanword,  Skr.  narakajdti,  re- 
birth in  hell ;  loo.  naryajsdvena,  A  1 7. 

nas,  to  seize,  to  receive,  to  conceive,  to  over- 
power ;   3rd  pers.  sing.  conj.  ndsdti,  16  6'; 

41  ai ;  Srd  pers.  plur.  pres.  middle,  ndsdre, 
38  6*^ ;  pres.  part,  ndsdkd,  116";  24  h" ; 
future  part.  pass,  ndsdnd,  8  a";  9  a' ;  with 
emphatic  particle  ye,  ndsdnd-ye,  30  o". 


nasama,  subst.,  seizing,  comprehension, con- 
ception, 18  6i-  "  ;  instr.  ndsdme-jsa,  9  a>'^. 
nasta,  adv.,  down,  below,  12  a"i  (uncertain), 
nasta,  past  part,  of  verb  corresponding  to 

Zd.  ni-dh,  to  sit  down ;  used  as  a  past 

tense,   3rd  pers.  sing,  nastd,  4  6'" ;  5  6' ; 

Srd  pers.  plur.  wsta,  5  a*^'. 
nau,    num.,    nine,    43  6""  ;    nauvaranau, 

ninety-nine,  A  7  ;   23. 
nauhya,  unidentified  word,  42  6'. 
navays,   loanword,  Skr.  nivas,  to  put  on 

the  under  garment ;    Srd  pers.  sing.  j)ast, 

navdysye,  4  a", 
naya,  see  nydya. 

naysa,  numeral,  translates  ^\x.niyuta,ZOh\ 
nayutta,  loanword,  Skr.  nayuta,  a  myriad, 

A  7;    8;    9;    11;    12;    14;    15;    23; 

nayuta,  A  10. 
nihujsada,  see  Imjsddd,  13. 
nijan  (1),  to  destroy,  to  subdue ;  Srd  pers. 

sing.  opt.  nijlyri,  43  6*^. 
nija,  loanword,  Skr.  nija,  own  (1),  416™; 

43  a*, 
nijsan,  to  bestow,  to  grant ;  3rd  pers.  plur. 

pres.  nijsdmndre,  A  23. 
najsas,   to   explain,   cf.    Zd.  cai;  the  past 

part,  ndjsadd,  explained,  said,  is  used  in 

the  idiom  Uu  ndjsadd,  that  said,  so,  which 

translates  Skr.  iti,  9  a';  ttu  najsudd,  1 3  a* ; 

276'";  28  a*;  ttu  nijsada,  34  a". ' 
nirvana,  loanword,  Skr.  nirvana ;  loc.  sing. 

nirvana,  10  a^ ;  44  a*. 
nasphan,  to  produce;    1st  pers.  sing.  opt. 

nasphdnu,  20  a*;  Srd  pers.  sing,  ndsphdne, 

34  a™. 
nista,  is  not;  see  ah. 
nistuja,  adj.,  derived  from  nistd,  cf.  Skr. 

ndstika,  not  being,  not  real,  39  a", 
nyapamda,  probably  pres.  part,  of  nydp, 

to  be  made  known;  see  nap. 
nyaya,  loanword,  Skr.  nadi,  a  river ;  gen. 

sing,  nydya,  21  a*;   23  6";    28  6";   ndyd, 

A  15. 
nyuvijsa,  adj.,  north,  12  a*"  (uncertain). 


o,  conj.,  and,  or,  9  6*;  10  6"™;  14a"; 
18  6i;  28aiv,  6i;  306iv;  32a';  366'; 
41a'"';    o   vd,    and    also,    or,    116'-"; 


346 


VOCABULARY  TO 


156iii;   16Z)i;   21a";   285*;   29aiii,  6"; 
32  ai;    cf.  au,  38  6";   o  va,   A.2;    a  va, 
21  aii;  ail.  va,  38  6i. 
O,  pron.,  that,  yonder;   instr.   ona,  iu  that 
wav,  thus,  A  2  ;  26;  28;  loc.  ola,  voiider, 

41  k 

orga,  sulist.,  obeisance,  worship,  3  6";  A  33. 
oska,  adv.,  ahva3'S,  2  a™;  cf.  auskavj.^! . 


pa,  suhst.,  foot ;  ace.  p!ur.  ^«,  5  a" ;  jid,  4  6". 

pacadana,  subst.,  used  to  translate   Skr. 

parydyena,  in  the  way,  in  the  manner, 

28  6i«. 
pacMs,  to  be  completed ;    3rd   pers.   sing. 

pres.  j'7(/rt^)«c7i7^y«^(',  is  completely  written, 

A  18  ;     slyd    iiachiysda,    is    completely 

known,  3  a^. 
padam,  to  build  up,  to  accumulate;   3rd 

pers.  sing.  0|it.  padlme,  A  31. 
padamja,     adj.    or    postposition,    perliaps 

meaning  '  connected  with ',  or  'on  account 

of,  20  a\ 
padaiiijsya,  adj.,  bygone ;    gen.  phir.  j^a- 

ddmjsyarimd,  26n';  30 a^-'^^' ;  paddmjsy dm, 

44  6i". 
padauysa,  ordinal,  first,  2  aK 
padi,  subst.,  way,  manner  (?),  cf.  Zd.  panti, 

pa6d{t);  arc.  sing,  ttu  padi,  that  way,  so, 

16'";    416";    42  a*-";   43  6";   are.  plur. 

drrai  padya,  in    three    way?,   threefold, 

1  6'";  vnu  pnilya,  in  nine  ways,  43  6'". 
pahausta,    part.,     18  6"i;    perhaps    'was 

dressed  in  ',  '  versed  in  ' ;  of.  prahausti. 
pajsa,  see  pninjsn. 
pajsam,  t(j  worship,  to  honour;  jiast  part. 

jiajsa'iiievyi>,  A  29  ;  fut.  part.  pass,  /lajsa- 

mavlya,  21  6iv;   29  a"'. 
pajsama, pajsam,  loanword,  Skr.  j^wya,  with 

indigenous  suffix,  worship,  honour ;  nom. 

sing,  pajsam,    29  6";    A  33;    ace.  sing. 

pajsama,  30  5'^;   pajsam,  31a';    37  a'; 

A  3;   29;  pamjsa,  A  30;  pajsa,  A  33; 

gen.  ]A\ix.  pajsamdnd,  6  a'. 
pajsiryl(?),    translates    Skr.   pratUdmya, 

putting  back,  4  6";   the  form  is  the  3rd 

pers.  sing,  past  of  an  unidentified  verb, 
palamga,  loanword,  Skr.  paryanka,  squat- 
ting, 4  6"'. 


pamaka,  part.,  measurable,  commeasurablc, 
cf.  Zd.  framd,  116";  1 3  ,ii-  >",  6" ;  256'; 
A  30;  31  ;  32. 

pamcaiai,  snlist.,  a  period  of  five  hundred 
years,  probably  borrowed  from  Skr.pajica- 
i'((/7;   geVL.  sing.  I'amcdidi,  13  6";   306"'. 

pariijsa,  num.,  five,  A  20;  pujsa  se,  five 
hundred,  26  a". 

paiiijsasa,  num.,  fifty,  Zd.  pavcdsalcm  ; 
insti'.  \>\\\r.  pai'njsuiau,  4  «' ;  A  1. 

pamsti,  see  par. 

pariitsamflii,  that  should  be  jdaced  in  front, 
that  should  be  viewed ((),  43  6"';  cf. 
pii/ai'nlsii. 

pana,  adv.,  before,  in  front,  4  a'"  ;    11  6"'. 

par,  til  make  "ver  to  another,  to  abandon, 
give  away;  to  utter;  witli  the  infinitive 
of  iitlier  verbs  it  forms  a  kind  of  causals  ; 
3rd  pers.  i)lur.  pres.  jmrlJi  2'^'I'<  they 
give  to  write,  they  cause  to  lie  written, 
30  6"';  3rd  per.s.  sing.  o]it.  jmit,  lie  would 
giveaway,  27  6'^';  28  «'"  ;  pun  ;/7/</,  one 
might  leave  to  go  (1),  27  6";  2'"-'''  ?'''.^'', 
he  would  give  to  write,  A  .'! ;  4  ;  0  ;  27  ; 
2ii(lii.  pari,  3  a' ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  patt  j'aMi, 
he  uttered,  .\  2  ;  2ia>hslr,  he  gave  away, 
28  6";  pas/i,  tlie  sann',  23  6"';  pamsti, 
the  same,  28  6"';  p)asU  jildr,  he  gave  to 
write,  A  41;  with  suffixed  7,  ^ia!il(i,i,\v. 
said  to  him,  36  a''';  past  part,  pdralii 
liadii,  caused  to  be  attached,  attached, 
27  6"'.  The  explanation  of  some  of  these 
fdvnis  is  uncei  tain. 

parabhiitta,  loanword,  Skr.  ^)art67mto, 
overcome,  20  6". 

parah,  to  become  attached;  infinitive  (1) 
jifinihi pasta,  caused  to  lie  attacheil,  27  6'", 
used  to  tiaiislate  Skr.  rasliijuitita  ;  3rd 
pers.  sing.  opt.  pdralii,  27((';  40  6';  3rd 
pers.  sing,  past,  pdrauUi,  r>  6"  ;  past  pait. 
2'r!r(( uiAV, used  to  tianslale  tilir.prati.^llii/a; 
nom.  sing.  ^)a;Y(»»«,  20  a'";  ;jaraMH((, 
26  6""';  28  a";  avdrauUa,  20  «'"  ;  avd- 
rauttaiV),  44  a';  instr.  siwis,.  pdrauttd-na, 
1 0  6'v  ;  11  a'-  'V  ;  pdn-autld,  1 1  a"  ;  avd- 
rauita,  26  6'''. 

parahinai,  adj.,  connected  with  morality  ; 
obi.  pardhije,  A  35. 

param,  used  to  translate  Skr.  parydp,  to 


VAJRACCHEDIKA  AND  APAEIMITAYUH  SUTRA     347 


get  at,  to  grasp;   3rd  pers.  plur.  pres. 

pardmnvidi,  29  6"'- 
paramartha,  loanword,  Skr.  paramdrtha, 

the  highest  truth,  the  essence,  2  a". 
paramma,  loanword,  Skr.  pdramitd,  with 

indigenous  suffix ;  nom.  sing.  j)Oirdmma, 

25  a''^ ;  paraTOa,  256';  ace.  sing. paramma, 

25  a")  gen.  plur.  ^ammmam,  16"', 
paranirva,  loanwoid,  Skr.  iKirinirvdp,  to 

save,  to  deliver ;  3rd  pers.  sing.  perf.  conj. 

paranirvdye  liamdti,  10a";  3rd  pers.  sing. 

perf.  opt.  paranirvdye  hamd,  1 0  a™ ;  future 

part.   pass,  paranirvdna,   lOa';     316™; 

paranirvdydmna,  316™. 
parasa,  adj.,  pleasant,  probably  borrowed 

from    Ski-,  prdsddika ;    nom.    sing.    fem. 

pdrasa,  2  aS ;  pdrsa,  2  6'^ ;  2'^'''^!  22  a\ 
parautta,  see  pdrah. 
paraysda,    unidentified ;    3rd    pers.    sing. 

present,  leads  to  (?),  IQa^v. 
parruska,  unidentified,  2  a™. 
pars,  to  show  obedience  to  ;   3rd  pers.  plur. 

past  pars'ddd,  1 3  6™. 
parsa,  loanword,  Skr.  ^jartsa,  parsad,  as- 
sembly, audience;  nom.  sing. parsa, 44 a''*'; 

parsci,  A  40  ;  loc.  sing,  parsana,  5  a"'. 
parsa,    pleasant,  2  6"' ;  22  ai  (pdrsa) ;    see 

pdrasa. 
paryeta,  part.,  returned,  4  6", 
pai,  to  give  up,  to  leave ;    3rd  pers.  plur. 

present  pasuld,  A  3  ;  3rd  pers.  sing.  opt. 

pase,  14  6"';  A  6;  23;   25;  future  part. 

■pass,  pa^dmnd,  14  6"- 
pasara,  subst.,  night,  evening  (i);  ace.  sing. 

pasdra,  at  night,  28  6™. 
paskauta,  unidentified  word,  42  5™;  pro- 
bably perf.  part,  pass.,  risen,  rising. 
paskyasta,  adv.,  aiterwards,  A3;  6  ;  pas- 

kydsta,  A  16. 
paste,  past  of  verbal  base,  cut  off,  chopped 

off  (older  te,7iis  pataltd),  25  6". 
pasti,  see^ar. 
patata,    part.,  risen,  arisen,  5  6';    24  a'^ 

40  a''. 
patca,  adv.,  again,  moreover,  A3;  8 ;  9 

10;  11;  12;  26;   27;   28;   33;  pdtca. 

A  14;    15;  vatcd,  5  a";   36  6'";  vdtca 

10  6™;   126™;  16  a'''. 
pjlti,  hears,  23  6'^;  28  6";  sen  pyu. 


pattara,   loanword,    Skr.  pdtra,   an    alms 

bowl ;  ace.  sing,  pdttara,  4  a'" ;  pattara, 

4  6". 
paysan,  to  know,  to  acknowledge,  Zd.  paiti- 

zan;   1st  pers.  sing.  pres.  middle, paysant, 

26a';  past  part.  pass,  paysdmda,  14  a'; 

28aiv 
phara,  adj.,  much,  many,  36  6";  phardka, 

the  same,  5a';    15  6iii-  " ;    21  6";  A  3; 

instr.  phardkyau,  A  1   (written  pjhardn- 

ydu). 
pharra,  subst.,  fruit,  result,  17  a',  6''. 
phi^ana,  fut.  participle  pass.,  that  should 

be  brought  away  from,  26  6'. 
pichasta,  adj.,  manifest,  A  23. 
pinda,  loanword,   Skr.  pinddya,  in  order 

to  collect  alms,  4  a". 
pinva,  the  same,  4  a™, 
pir,  to  write ;   infinitive  plde,,  A3;  4 ;   6  ; 

27 ;  41 ;  pldil,  3  a' ;  pldi,  30  6"' ;  3rd  pers. 

plur.  pres.  pnrlde,  A  26;  with  suifixed  I, 

piridai,  write  it,  29  a" ;   3rd  pers.  sing. 

conj.   pird,   i.e.  probably   pirdii,    24  6"; 

3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  ^nri,  37  a';  A3;   4  ; 

6;    16;   18;  20;  22;  23;  24;  33;  plre, 

A  21 ;  25  ;  ^wye,  A  17  ;  past  part,  pida, 

A18. 
piran,  to  cause  to  grow,  to  plant ;  3rd  pers. 

plur.  past  pirddamdci,  13  6'^. 
pirmattama,  adj.,  highest,  best ;  nom.  sing. 

pirmdttamma,  22  a'';  39  5';  plrmdttama, 

2  a' ;  hiidplrmdttama,  18  6'"- "' ;  ace.  sing. 

plrmdttama,  A2Q;  biSd-pirmdttama,  30a™; 

32  6™;    33  6"';    bUapirmdttamd,  32  a" ; 

instr.   sing,  plrmdttama,  25  a";  biidpir- 

mdltamii,  8  6'- ";    hiia-pjirmdttamye,  6  a"', 

6™  {hisa-) ;  7  a"',  6''' ;  gen.  sing,  hiidplr- 

mdttamye,  26  6';  aAv.pnrmdttama,  25  a" ; 

used    as    a    post-position,   ^;ir??!aMaOTma, 

beyond,  30  6'. 
piruyai,  adj.,  previous,  preceding,  former, 

A  17. 
pisai,    subst.,   a   teacher,    master,    22  o"; 

39  5i. 
piskala,    subst.,    placing    apart,   distribu- 
tion,    display  ;    section,    division ;     gen. 

sing,  piskala  vira,  in  a  section   (of    the 

earth),  216'";  ace.  plur.  piskala,   20  a'; 

cf.  aviskastd,  not  displayed,  20  a". 


348 


VOCABULAEY  TO 


pitta,  according  to  Leumann,  3rd  pers.  sing. 

pres.  of  jiat,  to  fall,  42  6J-  ". 
prablLava,  loanword,  Skr.  prahhdva,  power, 

influence;  instr.  aing. prabhava-na,  43 a^'^, 

jiij  prrahhava-na,  30  a". 
pracai,  loanword,  Skr.  pratyaya ;  used  in 

the  instrumental,  Icaia  pracaina,  in  con- 
sequence of  tlie   cataract,    42  a' ;    carau 

pracaina,  by  means  of  a  lamp,  42  a™; 

ttye  pracaina),   in    consequence    of   that 

for  him,  2l6ii;  29  ai. 
prahagisai,  unidentified  loanword,  42  h\ 
prahajaua,     loanword,    Skr.   prthagjana, 

common,    ignorant,   people ;    instr.   plur. 

prahajanau,  38b^'^  ;prahujaHau-jsa,39ai'^. 
prahausti,  3rd  pers.  sing,  past  of  a  verb 

meaning  to    put    on    clothes,     5  6'i;    cf. 

2jahausta. 
prajnai,   adj.,   derived  from   Skr.  2>'>'('jna, 

knowing,  wise,  27  a"^. 
prajnaparamma,  loanword,  Skr.  prajiia- 

paramitd,  transcendental  wisdom ;    nom. 

sing.  2^i'('j'>^o,pdrmh'iina,     22  6i;    'prrajila- 

2)drdiiima,  39  Ji" ;  prrajhdpdrdma,  39  J"' ; 

aco.  sing,  pjrajndpdrdmma,   1  6iii;    2  a"'; 

44  6';  gen.  prajndpdrdmini,  21  b^;  prajnd- 

pjdrdihine,  40  b"". 
pranavana,  loanword,  Skr.  prajnapyamdna 

with  indigenous  suffix,  that  can  be  known; 

nom.  sing.  fem.  jyranavdiia,  9  6^^. 
pranavyi,  loanword,  Skr  .^;ra^mapto,  ordered, 

arranged  ;  gen.  sing,  pranavyi,  4  &"^ 
prattikara,     loanword,     Skr.     pratihdra, 

reward ;    gen.    sing.    ^;ra<ijtem,    1 1  a^ ; 

prattakdrd,  26  6"'. 
prayauga,  loanword,  Skr.  prayoga;  instr. 

sing,  prayaugd-iia,  by  means  of  practice, 

44  a>. 
prraksiv,  loanword,  iSkv.pratihsip,  to  reject ; 

3rd  ])cis.  sing.  o])i.  jirraksiv'l,  28  6^^. 
prravartt,  loanword,  Skr.  pravart,  to  occur ; 

3rd  pers.    sing.    opt.  prravarUfi,  24  6"i; 

2>ravarttd,  1 4  a^- ". 
prritta,  loanword,  ^'kv.preta,  a  ghost,  A  22; 

loo.  plur.  hrriyvd,  A  17. 
pudgala,  loanword,  Skr.  pudgala,  a  person ; 

nom.  sing.   {drya)pudgald,    16  a'^;    vina 

pudgala,  without  personality,  34  a" ;  pud- 
gala vira,  10  6™ ;   24  6'-^  {vi). 


pudgalanasama,  subst.,  conception   of  a 

pudgala,  18  6";  see  ndsdma. 
pudgalasamna,  loanword,  Skr.  pudgala- 

sajjynd,   the  idea  of  a  pudgala,    1 4  a'^' ; 

25  6iii;  26aiv;   32  ai. 
piija,  loanword,  Skr.  ^iya,  worship;  nom. 

sing,  pujd,  A  33  ;  aco.  sing,  pujd,  31a'. 
puna,  loanword,  Skr.  punya,  lucky,  meri- 
torious, merit ;  instr.  siug. 21'una-na,  166"; 

nom.   plur.  j'una,  3  a";    21  a''^,  6" ;  ace. 

plur.  2«iJM,  13  6i^;   15  6™;   166";  366'; 

gen.  plur.  pmid,  36  6™. 
puninai,  adj.,  consisting  of  merit,  116™; 

126";   14a";    156";    16ai™;    24ai; 

28  6i;  29  ai-";  31  ai;  37aii;  41ai;A30; 

31. 
puramna,  subst.,  the  womb,  derived  from 

pura,  son ;  loc.  sing,  purdmnd,  9  6'. 
pusa,  unidentified,  14  6i^. 
pustai,    loanword,   Skr.  2^'tstaka,  a  book ; 

loc.  sing.  2>ustya,  A  3. 
pjuysga-jsini,    adj.,    shortlived,    having    a 

short   span   of  life ;   nom.   plur.  ^j^tys^a- 

jslnya,  A  3. 
pvai,  to  fear,  to  tremble;  3rd  pers.  plur. 

pres.  pvaidd,  25  a'ii ;  cf.  Zd.  bl. 
pvama,  subst.,  hearing;  ace.  2)'vdma,  A  34; 

pvdmma,  A  36;   38;   39;  pvdrhma,  A  35; 

zf. 

pyala,  subst.,  fulfilment,  attainment,  pos- 
session; instr.  sing,  pydlye-jsa,  12  6i'''; 
37  5i.  ii.  iii.  iv. 

pyamtsa,  adj.,  in  front;  cf.  Zd.  paitiank, 

4  6i'>',    Avith    hdstd    added,  pyatsdstd,    in 

future,  A  27.     " 
pyaura, unidentified,  43  «iii;  pyaurd,  43  6ii; 

pryawrd,  43  a'^'. 
pyu,  to  hear ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  present  pus'di, 

A  35  ;  37 ;  39;  pusdi,  A  34 ;  imiWa,  A  36  ; 

38;  3rdpers.  siug.conj.;ra<2,  23^;  28  6ii'; 

pvdte,  A3;    4 ;     3rd   pers.    plur.  2^3'^^, 

A  3  ;    3rd  pers.  sing,  past  pyus'.e,  9  o"  ; 

imper.  2ud  pers.  smg.pyu,  8  6";  pu,  A  3  ; 

piast  part.  2>y'"'?fa,  Sb^"^;  24  6i;  A  1. 

R 

ra,  copulative  adv.  or  particle,  2  6i ;  5  a"' ; 
1 4  6iii ;  1 7  ai,  6iii ;  25  6i' ;  27  aiv  ;  33  ai^' ; 
43  aii ;  .A  2  ;  17  ;  ra,  24  ai^' ;  rl,  3  aii. 


VAJRACCHEDIKA  AND  APARIMITAYUH  SUTEA     349 


raksaysa,  loanword,  Skr.  ralcsasa,  a  demou 

A  22. 
raihna,    loanword,     Skr.    ratna,    a    gem 
treasure;    instr.    plur.    ramnyau,    A  28 
raihnyau-jsa,  15  6ii;  21aiii;  36  ai^;  A  30 
ranyau-jsa,  40  V^. 
raiiminai,  adj.,  consisting  of  gems,  treasures, 

A  31. 
rasa,  probably  loanword,   Skr.  raja,  king, 

43  6i^\ 
rasiya,  loanword,  Skr.  rsi,  a  rislii ;    nom. 

sing,  ranya,  26  aP^, 
raysa,  unidentifi ed  word,  perhaps  Zd.ra.-.(rm; 

with  suffixed  %,  raysi,  2  a^^. 
rrasta,  adj.,  right,  straight,  Zd.  rdsta ;  nom. 
sing,    rrasta,    41  6"^;    obi.    sing,   rrasta, 
4  6^";   used  as  an  adv.  rrasta,  27  a""'; 
38  a"";     A  2;    rrasta,    6  a";    A  2;    cf. 
ha^nrrastd. 
rravyipatani,  adj.,  south,  12  a"  (uncertain). 
rri,  subst.,  a  king;   nom.   sing,  rri,  25  6"' 
{kaldrri)  ;    Z7  h^  ;    gen.    sing,    rrumda, 
37  6iv. 
rrispiira,  subst.,  the  son  of  a  king,  a  prince ; 
gen.  sing,  rrispurd,  3  6'^  ;  rrispurd,  A  1 . 
rupakaya,  loanword,  Skr.  rupakdya,  23  6'. 
ruva,    loanword,  Skr.  rupa,  form,  object ; 
instr.    sing,    ruvd-na,    ruvi-na,  ruva-na, 
9  6";    ruva-ne,   38  a';    nom.  plur.  riiva, 
42  ai ;  ace.  plur.  ruva,  28  a' ;  41  6"' ;  instr. 
plur.  ruvyau-jsa,  17  a''';  gen.  plur.  ruva, 
11  a";   20aiii;  ruvdm,  26  6". 
rvaida,   unidentified,    perhaps    3rd    pers. 
plur.  pres.,  43  a"',  6". 


S 


sa,  particle  ;  see  sa. 

sa,  numeral,  hundred,  Zd.  satam,  30  6' ; 
ssa,  A  3  ;  4;  6  ;  16  ;  miswritten  sd,  A  16; 
pajsa  se,  five  hundred,  26  a", 

sa,  this,  that ;  see  sd. 

sabhaugi,  loanword,  Skr.  sdmbhogika,  be- 
longing to  enjoyment,  20  6'^, 

sada,  loanword,  Skr.  kaddha;  ace.  sing. 
sada,  28  6";  instr.  sing,  sadi-jsa,  16'; 
sada-jsa,  3a'^. 

sadah,  loanword,  Skr.  kaddhd,  to  believe  ; 
3rd  pers.  plur.  pres.  sadaliidd,  24  6", 


saddham,  loanword,  Skr.  siddham,  hail, 
16';  3  6";  44  6";  Al. 

saddharma,  Skr.  loanword,  the  true  re- 
ligion, 13  6", 

fiadya,  ladyi,  see  iamda. 

sahaniya,  adj.,  full  of  faith,  virtuous, 
13  6". 

sai,  to  appear,  to  shine,  Zd.  sad;  3r(l  pers. 
sing.  pres.  saittd,  11  6'^;  12  6"';  Ha"', 
6';  15  a",  6";  16  6'^;  18  a';  19  a"; 
226";  23o';  336"';  346';  40ai;  mis- 
written  saz,  37a";  suaittd,  20  6";  setta, 
38  a";  3rd  pers.  plur.  saidd,  42  o';  piast 
part,  saye,  28  a'. 

sal,  particle,  even,  also,  1 0  a'" ;  17  6"; 
25  6";    A  21;    26;    s^  {t),    10  6"i;    si, 

16  6"  ;  cf.  however,  15  6". 

sai,  subst.,  a  noble,  fern,  saind ;  see  hisvrrrd- 

sai. 
saj,  to  learn;   3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  sdji,  26"; 

216';  41a';    saj J,  29  a"' ;  sdjlyd,  166'; 

23  6";   37  a';  past  part,  siyd,  3  a', 
sakrttagam'a,  loanword,  Skr.  sakrddgdmin; 

nom.   sing,   sakrtidgdmd,    17  6';    sakrttd- 

gdmmd,    17  6";    gen.  sing,  sakrttdgdma, 

17  6";  gen.  plur.  sakrttdgdmd,  17  6". 
Sakyamuna,   loanword,  Skr.   Sdkyaniuni, 

a  name  of  the  buddha,  33  a"' ;  A  30. 
salava,    loanword,     Skr.    samldpa,    word ; 

instr.  plur.  saldyau-jsa,  38  a". 
sail,  subst.,  year  ;  ssa-sali,  a  hundred  years, 

a  century,  A  3  ;  6  ;  sd-sdU,  A  16. 
lalo,   loanword,   Skr.  Uoka,  a  verse ;    aoc. 

sing,  ^alo,  31a'. 
saih,  see  samii. 
samahana,    subst.,    borrowed    from    Skr. 

samddhdna,    profound    meditation ;    loc. 

sing,  samdhdna,  19  a'. 
samas,  to  complete,  to  compile ;   3rd  pers. 

sing,  past,  samdsye,  44  6' ;  A  40. 
samcaya,  Skr.  loanword,  heap,  collection, 

A  2. 
samda,  subst.,  the  earth ;  gen.  sing,  iadyi, 

216"';  loc.  sing,  kadya,  5  6";   cf  ysama- 

Samdai. 
saiiikhaluna,     subst.,     aromatic   powder; 

instr.  plur.  samkhalunyau-jsai  {°luiyau  1), 

A3, 
samkhyarma,  loanword,  Skr.  samghdrdma. 


350 


VOCABULAEY  TO 


a    monastery ;    loo.    sing,     samkhyerma, 

4ai;  Al. 
saiiina,  loanword,    Skr.   samena,    exactly, 

precisely,  6  6';  7  h^. 
samfia,  loanword,  Skr.  samjnd,  idea,  notion  ; 

nom.  sing,  samna,  lOa",*"-"';  246ii-i"-ii'; 

25  6i";    26ai;    27aii;    ace.  sing,  samna, 

\Za^^;    gen.    samna   mra,    llji;    instr.- 

abl.  plur.  samnau-jsa,  26  6';  asamna,  a 

non-idea,  25  6'^. 
samtsara,    loanword,    Skr.    samsara,    the 

world,  43  U"  ;  loc.  sin^'.  sarhtsira,  43  6"'. 
saihttana,   loanword,   Skr.  samlana,   con- 

temjjlation ;  loc.  sing,  saihttana,  19  a*, 
samu,     loanword,    Skr.    samam,    in    like 

manner,  43  a'-  "  ;  saw,  42  flii ;   ««;»  /cAm, 

in  like  manner  as,  just  as,  42  U-  ^-  i^. 
Sana,   subtt.,   an    enemy,  host;    ace.  plur. 

Sana,   1 8  «'" ;    gen.  plur.  sanaihnd,    6  6' ; 

7  6ii;  sanam,  18  6ii. 
sarau,  subst.,  a  lion ;  nom.  plur.  sarauva, 

A  34;  35;  36;  37;  38;  39. 
sarb,  to  rise,  used  of  the  sun  ;    3rd  pers. 

sing.  opt.  sarbci,  416';    pres.  part,  sar- 

hamdd,  rising,  eastern,  12  a' ;  A  2. 
sarvamna,  loanword,  Skr.  sarvajna,  omni- 
scient, 2  o". 
iaiaiii,  loanword,   Skr.   Sdsana,  teaching, 

24  6i. 
^astara,  subst.,  teacher,  master,  the  Lord, 

Zd.  sdstar,  or  borrowed  from  Skr.  sdstar; 

nom.  sdstar  a,  39  6';  sdstdra,  22  a". 
sataihna,    ordinal,  the  hundredth,   31o"; 

37a";  of.  sa. 
satva,  loanword,  Skr.  saitea,  a  being ;  nom. 

sing,  satva,  13  a";  316"';  ace.  sing,  satva, 

lOa'ii;  gen.    sing,    satva,    10  6";    34  a"; 

satva,  24  6'";  nom.  plur.  satva,  9  a'^,  6'"  ; 

10  a';   316";  A3;   22;  ace.  jDlur.  satva, 

10a";    gen.   plur.,    satvdnci,    2 7  a';   sat- 

vdmnd,  30a';  satvdih,  9  a'''';  A  2. 
satvadata,  loanword,  Skr.  sattvadhdtu,  the 

world  of  beings,  9  6''',  the  word  is  feminine, 
sat'va-nasaina,  subst.,  conception  of  a  being, 

18  6';  see  ndsdma. 
sat'vasamna,  loanword,  Skr.  sattvasamjnd, 

the  idea  of  abeing,  14  a'v ;  25  6>" ;  26  a'"; 

316't. 
lau,  num.,  one ;  nom.  sau,  44  6"' ;  ace.  iau. 


5  a"',  6"  ;   10  a"' ;    13  6'" ;   14  a';    16  6' ; 

216';     31a';     36  6'';     40  6'';     gen.    ^e, 

3  6'";  si,  13  6'";  loc.  sina,  44  6'";  A  1. 
Saukrrasisa,  nom.  propr.,  name  of  a  man 

or,  disciple  of  Saukra,  A  41. 
sauna,  subst.,  the  Lord,  the  Compassionate 

One ;  gen.  sing,  sauna,  A  34  ;   35  ;   36  ; 

38 ;    miswritten    sauna,    A  37 ;    sdmnd, 

A  39.     The  base  is  perhaps  sawn. 
sava,  subst.,  night;   gen.  sing,  fivi,  416'; 

savi  (?),  28  o'. 
see,  see  stye. 

si,  num.,  second,  another,  16  a''';  23  6'". 
sa,  si,  dem.  pron.,  this,  that,  Zd.  ha,  aesa, 

se;    nom.   sing.    masc.    sa,    10  6';    325"; 

37  6'";  sa,  32  a';    38  a'"^,  6'';   A3;  16; 

17;  si,  7a"';  8a'';   106';  11  6";   12  6'; 

14  6"^'"  ;   15  a'",  6"  (cf.  however,  16  6'') ; 

16  6"  ;    17  6'v;     18  a'",  6' ;    19  a",  6'-  "i ; 

20  a',  6'';  21  6"'-'';  22  a'',  6'-"-'';  24  a''; 

27  a'',  6' ;  32  a"-  "i,  6'' ;  33  a"- '',  6"-  "' ; 

34ai.iii.iv;   36  Ji;    37  a'';    38  6";    39  a', 

6'"-'';    40  a',  6"';    41a';   43  6'';    44«'; 

A3;  6;  18;  20;  21;  23;  24;  25;  26; 

27;  28;  29;  30;  33;  se,A3;  22;  25; 

27;    nom.   sing.   fem.  sd,  18  6";     22  a'; 

24  6'-";   25  a'';    27  a"T  29  a'';  39  a"; 

43  6'. 
sa,  a  particle  of  affirmation,   5  6'';  1 1  6' 

16  a'";   17  a'-",  6"-"';   18a';  19  a'',  6" 

22a";    31a";    32  6";    37a"'';    39  6" 

sa,  17  a"i ;  19  6''  ;  37  a'' ;  A  2;  si,  18  a'' 
>     se,  38  6'. 
si,  see  sai. 
Sikh'a,  n.  propr.,  Skr.  Sikhin,   name   of  a 

buddha,  A  30. 
SiBa,  see  iau. 
sinauhya,  subst.,  doubt,  A  23;  lit.  second 

mind,  cf.  xi. 
6ira,  subst.,  well  being,  luck ;  cf.  Skr.  iica, 

German  heuer ;  instr.  sing.  Sird-jsa,  3  a" ; 

gen.    sing,  hri,   27a';    gen.    plur.    sird 

butti,  realizes  good  things,  15a';    vand- 

iard   vamakd,     does    reflect    about    un- 

auspicious  things,  15  a'  (?);  often  used  as 

an  exclaraation   or  as  an    adverb,    well, 

good ;  tird,  7  a"' ;  8  a'';  9  a';  29  6'' ;  Hri, 

8  6'". 
sira,  adj.,  pleased;   nom.  sing,  slrd,  44a". 


VAJEACCHEDIKA  AND  APAEIMITAYUH  SUTRA     351 


siya,  see  saj. 

skajsika,    unidentified,    perhaps   used    to 
translate  Skr.  sainshdra,  cf.  sTcaujd ;  gen. 
plur.  skdjslkdna,  21  a^.     We  should  per- 
haps read  anaushdjsikdna,  cf.  auskaiijsl. 
skandha,   loanword,   Skr.    skandha;    gen. 
plur.  skandha,  A  18;  loc.  plur,  skaddhvd, 
among  the  skandhas,  27  a^i. 
skauja,  unidentified   subst.,  perhaps  used 
to  translate  Skr.  samskdra ;    nora.   sing. 
skauja,  43  a",  6"^ ;  gen.  sing,  skaujd,  43  6^ 
skaumata,  subst.  or  adj.,  things  that  can  be 
touched,  used  to  translate  Skr.  sprastavya; 
instr.  plur.  skaumayati,  17  6* ;  gen.  plur. 
skaumatdm,    11  a^;    skaumatd,    20  a^^ ; 
skamavdm,  26  6*". 
sparaksasta,  num.,  sixty-six,  A  10. 
sparapaiiijsasa,  num.,  fifty-six.  All. 
sparatcahausa,  num.,  forty-six,  A  12. 
sparabaista,  num.,  twenty-six,  A  14. 
sravakayana,  loanword,  Skr.  irdvakaydna, 
the  vehicle  of  a  irdvaka ;  loc.  sing,  irdva- 
kaydna,  27  aii'- 
Sravasta,  name  of  a  town,  Skr.  Srdvastl ; 
gen.  sing.  Srdvastd,  3  6^^ ;     4  a";    A  1 ; 
Srdvasia,  4  a"i. 
srrauttavana,  loanword,  Skr.  srotaapanna; 
nom.   sing,  srrauttdvaihnd,   17a";    gen. 
sing.    srrauUdvand,     16  6";    gen.    plur. 
STrauttd/oamnd,  1 7  a'-. 
ssa,  hundred,  see  sa. 

sta,  to  stand, Zd.  -)^ta;  3rd  pers.plur.  present 

stare,  A  32  ;   present  part,  middle,  stdna, 

standing,  being,    116^";    12  6';    28  a"; 

A  35;    stdmna,  KZ;  6;    16;    34;    36; 

37;  38  ;   39  ;  s<am,  A34;  35;  36;   37; 

38;    std,   38  Ji";     44  5";    A  39 ;    with 

suffixed  I,  stdmnai,  A  23  ;  past  part.  pass. 

sta,  (is)  standing,  38  6'. 

staina,  adj.,  female,  A  27  ;  cf.  strtya. 

6taka,  part.,  that  should  be  produced,  3  6^ ; 

20ani;  used  to  translate  utpddayitavya. 

starai,  subst.,  star;  nom.  plur.  stdrd,  41  i>. 

stye,  subst.,  time;    gen.  sing,  stye,  36"'; 

25  5";  see,  4  5";  5  a". 
Btriya,  subst.,  a  woman,  Zd.  stri ;  nom.  sing. 
strlya,  21a";    235";    28  5>;    gen.  sing. 
striyai,  21a". 
Subhata,  n.  pr.,  Skr.  Suhhuli ;  nom.  5m- 


5toa,  5  a",  5i;  8  a™;  9  a";  12  a",  5"; 
13  a"';  22a"i  {Suhhuta);  24  a";  32  6*; 
34  6"i-";  35  a"-",  5";  37  6';  39  6"; 
44a"i;   Suhhuta,   12  a*;    31a'";   32  6"; 

36  6";  (with  suffixed  %),  Suhhutl,  15  6™; 
17a";  23  a";  33  6i- " ;  StMuvi,  1 7  6"i ; 

18  ai";  19  a",  6";  22  6™;  34  6';  40a"i; 
ace.  Suhhuta,  25  a* ;  35  a\  ¥■  "  ;  36  a'" ; 

37  ai" ;  Suhhuld,  32  6";  Subhuva,  7  a"  ; 
36  a'  {Subhuva);  voc.  Suhhuta,  7  a'"; 
8  a",  6" ;  10  a",  6'- '" ;  11  a",  5"-  "'• 
{Subhutaf';  12  6'";  13ai;  146';  15  a", 
5i-";  166";  20a",  5";  33  5'";  36a"; 
37a";  39  a',  5" ;  40  a'-";  Subhuva, 
7aiii;  9  a"';   12  5';  13  5S   14  a"';   18  a'; 

19  a",  5";  20  6i;  22  S'-";  23  a*,  6" 
{Subhuva);  26a'-";  27  a"-",  fiii.  ivj 
2?,  a^ {Subhuva);  30a'";  315'-";  32  a'"; 
33  a',  5';  346';  Z?,  a^^i  {Subhuva),  h^. 

subiji,  adv.,  good,  well,  8  5"'- 
suhadukha,  loanword,  Skr.  sukhaduhkha, 

luck  and  misery,  42  6'". 
Suhava,  loanword,  Skr.  Sukhdvati,  the  world 

of  bliss,  A  25. 
Sumira,  loanword,  Skr.  Sunieru,  name  of 

a  mountain,  20  5"-'";  A  21  ;  31. 
SUtra,  loanword,  Skr.  sutra,  a  sutra;  ace. 

sing.  sM^ra,  1  5"' ;   28  5";   296i";    sutra, 

39a";  sutra,  A  3 ;  40  ;  instr.  sing,  wira, 

3  a'";    gen.  sing,  sutra,  23  5'";     25  a"  ; 

30  o";  loc.  sing,  sutra,  2  6"';  nom.  plur. 

sutra,  3  a" ;  gen.  plur.  sutrdih,  1 3  a",  5". 
fivahada,  adv.,  at  noon,  28  5". 
sve,  subst.,  shoulder,  Zd.  supti ;  the  form  is 

ace.  sing.,  5  5", 
syama,    subst.,  conception,   consciousneBs, 

cf.  sai;  instr.  sing,  sydme-jsa,  9  6'"-  ";  syd- 

mi-jsa,  9  6". 
sye,  of  uncertain  meaning  in  gruicyau-sye, 

which  see. 


T 


ta,  thus,  8  6"  ;  see  tta. 

tanka,    subst.,   a  small  coin,   a  farthing ; 

tanka  masi,  as  much  as  a  farthing,  A  28. 
taramdara,  see  ttaramdard. 
tathagata,    loanword,     Skr.    tatlidgata,    a 

denomination  of  the  Buddha,  38  6'". 


352 


VOCABULAEY  TO 


tea,  conjunction,  and,  24  6^ ;  25  6';  tea, 
A  1 7  ;  cf.  also  cu. 

tcahaura,  numeral,  four,  Zd.  cadvdro  ;  nom. 
tcahaura,  A  24  {ted-) ;  32 ;  tcahaurd- 
hastd,  eighty-four,  30  6^ ;  tcahaurahastd, 
A  18;  tcihaurahastd,  A  8;  tcahaurajiatl, 
consisting  of  four  pdda,  40  S''^ ;  teui-apatl, 
the  same,  2'iV";  36  Si'^;  tourarhjiati,  the 
same,  21  6';   tcurampatd,  the  same,  16  h^. 

teaiiha,  subst.,  eye,  Zd.  casman ;  nom. 
sing,  tcemd,  35  6";  41  5^^ ;  loo.  sing,  tcaiiia, 
41  6";  nom.  plur.  tcahimi'nnd,  346i-  ii-ivj 
35  (ji.  ii.  iii^  Ji;  36a";  tcairnamnammarid, 
i.  e.  tcaimaihnd,  36  a' ;  tcemamnd,  TibV^-''-'^. 

tcaimauda,  adj.,  possessing  eyes,  2Tb^^. 

tcairai,  probably  corresponding  to  Skr. 
kdrya,  that  should  be  made ;  tcairai,  15  a*'; 
tcaira,  3  ai"  ;  icerai,  29  6"  ;  <oera,  A  23. 

tcammna,  abl.-instr.  of  a  relative-interroga- 
tive base,  wherewith,  wherefrom,  30  a' ; 
because,  if,  17  a\  6™;   18  a". 

tearam,  sulist.,  means,  contrivance  (1),  cf. 
Zd.  card;  instr.-abl.  sing,  tcdramna,  38  a''^. 

tcarimai,  adj.,  uncertain,  perhaps  Skr.  cara- 
ma,  last,  least,  24  U^. 

tcerai,  see  tcairai. 

tcira,  subst.,  turn,  time;  aco.  plur.  drrai 
tolra,  three  times,  5  a"^. 

tha,  unidentified,  2  «m. 

thu,  pronoun,  thou,  13  6' ;  19  h'^  "i ;  33  a™. 

thyau,  adv.,  quickly  (Professor  Leumann), 
30  a™;  A  40. 

ta,  suijfix  or  postposition,  used  to  form  a  kind 
of  locative ;  ^e  stye  td,  at  one  time,  3  6™ ; 
tti  td,  and  then,  4  6"' ;  jserhaps  connected 
with  ti,  id,  116";   12  ai-  iv. 

tiviici,  unidentified,  used  to  translate  Skr. 
nyasya,  having  put  down,  A  3. 

tram,  to  go ;  3rd  pars.  sing,  past  tramdu , 
14  5m.  IT;  tramda,  4  a™;  past  part.  gen. 
sing,  ttramdye,  A  34  ;  35  ;  36  ;  38  ;  39  ; 
ttradye,  A  37;  cf.  tiirain. 

traysa,  loanword,  Skr.  trdsa,  trembling, 
fear;  ace.  sing,  trdysa,  25a™. 

trisahasri,  loanword,  cf.  Pali  tisahassi,  a 
certain  lokadhdtu ;  gen.  sing,  trisahasrrye, 
156';  trasahasrre,  16«"*;  ttrisdhasrya, 
A  28;  trsahasrya,  S&a"". 

triyasuSa,  adj.,  derived  from  Skr.  tirya- 


gyonilca,  an  animal ;  loo.  sing,  ttraiiuiia, 
A  17;  gen.  plur.  triyasundm,  A  26. 
tsu,  to  go,  Zd.  ^m;  3rd  pers.  sing.  opt. 
tsi,  A  2  4  ;  3rd  pers.  sing,  past  tsuta, 
4  6i;  3rd  pers.  plur.  tsvmhdd,  5ai-™;  pres. 
part,  tsummamdd  {V),  A.  24  ;  tsuka,  wan- 
dering, in  rrasta  tsulcd,  right  wandering, 
Skr.  sugata,  A  2  ;  ttdhirau-tsuka-na,  by 
the  tathagata,  7  6' ;  ttdhard-tmka-na,  the 
same,  6  ai^ ;  future  part.  pass,  tsunai, 
29  b\ 

(1)  tta,  adv.,  thus,  so,  then,  cf.  Skr.  tat, 
2ai" ;  3  6';  5  6"' ;  6  6™;  7  a™ ;  8  a™;  9  a" ; 
1 0  a"',  6i ;  11  6ii-  iv  ;  12  «i-  "■  ";  6™-  iv  ; 
13aiii,  6i;  14aiii,  6i;  15  aii,  6i- ii-iv;  16aiii, 
Jiii.  iv;      17    ai.  iii^    Jii.  iii-      ig    „!.  iii.  iv  • 

1 9  ail-  iv^  Jii.  iv  ■  20  6ii-  iii ;  2 1  (fi ;  22  aiii-  iv, 
ji.  iiiil;  23oi-ii;  24  aiii;  25  ai;  29  6iv; 
31  aiv,  6i-iv;  32  a^i,  6ii- iv  ;  3  3  6ii- iii- iv ; 
3  4  Ji.  ii.  iii.  ir  ■  35  ^i.  ii.  iv_  Ji.  ii.  iv  ;  3  6  ai-  iii, 
6ii ;  37  aiii-  iv^  51  .  33  aiv,  6i-  iv  ;  39  ai, 
6ii-iii;  40ai-iil-iv;  44  6ii;  A  40 ;  ta, 
8  6ii ;  with  I  suffixed  ttai,  41  5iv ;  A  2 ;  3  ; 
4 ;  tta-lta,  thus,  so,  2  aiii ;  3  Jiii ;  7  o-iii ; 
8  aiv;  9ai-iv;  11  aiv  ;  12  aii-iv,  6i;  13  6i; 
15ai;  21ai;  22ai;  25aii;  3l6ii;  32  6iv; 
39  aiv;  40aiv;  41  aii-iv ;  42  6i-iii;  43  6i; 
44ai;  A  1;  3;  4;  23;  30;  31;  32;  with 
Z  suffixed  «a-«ai,  22  6i;  396iv;  tta  vd, 
and  so,  likewise,  2  aiii;   s^ii-  42  6iii. 

(2)  tta,  oblique  base  of  the  demonstrative 
pronoun  si,  this,  that ;  aco.  sing,  ttu,  A  7 ; 
8;  9;  10;  11;  12;  18;  20;  21;  22; 
23;  24;  25;  26;  27;  40;  41  ;  ttu,  IJiii; 
9ai;  13  ai;  24  ftii;  25  6iii;  27  6iii;  28ai-iii, 
6iv;  29  aiv;  34  aii;  39aiv;  41  6ii;  42ai-iv; 
43«i.  iii.  iv  ju;  44  ail;  A  14;  15;  16; 
1 7  ;  tvd,  2  aiv,  /_,iv ;  25  aiv  ;  30  6™;  36  «iv ; 
A  3  ;  tva,  36  6iv ;  instr.  sing,  ttana,  by 
that,    therefore,    3  aiH;     17  6iii;     19  5il; 

20  6iv;  23  aiv;  25  6i;  27  aiii ;  28  6iii; 
33  aiv ;  37  6iv;  apparently  miswritten  <<a, 
1 7  aii ;  ttina,  by  that,  therefore,  2  6"-  iv ; 
3  aiii;  8  6ii;  15  aiv ;  16  611;  17  aiii,  61; 
23  6i ;  39  ail-  iii  ;  with  I  suffixed  tlinai, 
3  aiii ;  gen.  sing,  ttye,  5  aiv ;  1 1  61ii;  12  611 ; 
16  aiii;  20  a";  216";  22  6iv;  25aii,  6ii; 
26  aiv;  29ai,  6ii;  30  0";  31  ai;  37  ai; 
41  ai;   A3;   4;    6;   16;    18;    20;    21  ; 


VAJRACCHEDIKA  AND  APAEIMITAYUH  SUTRA     353 


22;    23;    24;    28;    29;    30;    31;    32; 

33  ;    ttye  hvaye  (or  hvayai)  hvanai,  when 

that   word  had  been  said,  7  a";    8  (i"i ; 

13an;   22a"iv;   25ai;    326i-iu;    39  6*; 

followed  by  the  post-position  rira,  2  6"' ; 

21aiv;    23  6"i;   40  6"*;    loo.   sing,  ttina, 

26"i;    5a»';    A2;    7;    8;  9  ;  10;  11  ; 

12;    23;  nom.   plur.   tti,   9  6*";     10  ai; 

13  6iii;  29  6ii-iii;   30  a",  6";   43  a";  A3; 

26  ;  tta,  38  a";  ace.  plur.  tti,  41  a'^  ;  tta, 

38  ai;   gen.  plur.  iiyomwa,  24  6'^  ;    30  a*; 

ttyamna,  38  a™  ;  ttyarh,  13  a",  6'^;  24  6"; 

38  a";  A3;  32. 
tta,  adv.,  then,  now,  3  a";  A  3. 
ttadi,    unidentified    word,   perhaps    verse, 

passage,  44  6". 
ttadiyu,    probably    borrowed    from    Skr. 

tadiya,  his,  their,  A  3. 
ttaharai,  uncertain  word,  seems  to  translate 

Skr.    Tathagata,    a    designation    of   the 

Buddha ;    instr.    sing,    tvaharai,    34  a" ; 

gen.   plur.   ttahard,   27  a^^;    fuller  forms 

are     ttahirau    hvdnakd-na,     6  a>    (instr. 

sing.) ;  ttahirau  tsuka-na,  7  6^,  and  ttahard 

tsuka-na,  6  a*^  (instr.  sing.).     The  forms 

hvdndka  and  tauka  are  participles  of  hvaii 

and  tsu,  respectively ;   of.  hard. 
ttaja,  unidentified,  14  6™- 
ttara,  adv.,  so  far,  there,  22  a";  39  6';   cu 

ttard,  cu  ttird,  cu  ttira ;  see  cu. 
ttara,  subst.,  darkness,  Zd.  tqOra,  Pehl.  tar; 

ace.  sing,  ttdra,  27  6". 
ttaratcaca,  unidentified,  14  6™ 
ttaramdara,  subst.,  body;   nom.  sing,  tta- 

ramdard,  20  6i-ii-  if ;  23  6' ;  33  6i- ";  42  6"; 

taramdara,  38a™;  instr.  sing,  ttaraihdara- 

na,  46™;  aoc.  plur.  ttaramdara,  28  6™; 

ttaramdara,    23  6™;     28  6" ;    ttaradard, 

23ai'f ;  A  27. 
ttatta,  see  (1)  tta. 
ttattika,  adv.,  therefrom,  thence;  used  to 

translate  Skr.  atah,  1 6  6™. 
ttatva,  loanword,  Skr.  taitva,  true  state  or 

condition;  nom.  plur.  ttatva,  41  6*'''. 
tti,  see  (2)  tta. 
tti,   adv.,   then,  and   so,  4  a™  i^ ,  b^^ ;  5  6'; 

26a™;  37  a™;  38  ai;  43aii-iv,  6"-™; 
tti,  10  6™;  A  26;  tti  ml,  24,  a^^ ;  tti  vd, 
3 1  a™ ;    34  6";    35  a*-  ™,  6"-  ^^ ;    36  a™ ; 


41  aiv;  A  7;    8;   9;    10;    11  ;    12;   14; 

15  ;  ttird,  1  6"- 
ttina,  see  (2)  tta. 
ttina,  see  (2)  tta. 
ttinka,    adj.,    small,    insignificant,    17  a"' 

(uncertain,  cf.  tanka). 
ttira,    subst.,   head ;    instr.   sing,  ttird-jsa, 

5  a". 
ttraisTina,  see  trlyasuna. 
ttramdye,  see  tram. 
ttrariima,  adj.,  such,  so  much,  2  6™;  43  a* ; 

ttrdmd  mdmHamda,    such    like,  just  as, 

27  Ju.  IV  .     33  5i;     trdmma    mdmnamdd, 

43a™;  ttrdmmd  mdmnam,  20  6*. 
ttrrasaya,  loanword,  Skr.  triiatikd,  a  book 

consisting    of   three    hundred    granthas ; 

ace.  sing,  ttrraiayd,  2  a"' ;  ttrkiyd,  44  6'. 
ttrisahasri,  see  trisahasrl. 
ttryariani,   loanword,   Skr.  triydnika,  con- 
sisting of  three  vehicles  ;  ace.  sing,  ttryd- 

mnl,  1 6", 
ttii,  see  (2)  tta. 
ttiisa,  see  tvisd. 
ttiisatta,  subst.,  Skr.  tucchatd,  emptiness ; 

nom.    sing,   ttuidttd,    33  a*'*' ;    gen.    sing. 

ttuidttetd,  4  6". 
ttyam,  ttyamna,  ttye,  see  (2)  tta. 
tva,  see  (2)  tta. 
tvaharai,  see  ttaharai. 
tvan,  to  praise,  to  do  homage  to,  cf.  Zd. 

van;  inf.  tvand,  5a™;  tvamdand,  29  6*. 
tyara,  unidentified,  1  6^ ;  perhaps  connected 

with  tvan. 
tvisa,   subst.,   power,   strength,  Zd.  tdvlsl; 

tvisd  yandkd-na,  by  him  who  overpowers, 

6  6';   7  6";   ttusa  yanumd,  I  overpower, 

18  a" 

II 

u,  conj.,  and,  2  6"';  3  6";  5  a™,  6i-"-»' 
7ai;  8  a",  }fi^ ;  9  6';  216"';  22a™iv 
25  6"';  26  6';  27  6';  30  6";  31a';  39  6'-'" 
426';  A  1;   2;   3;   31;   33;   40. 

udisaya,  loanword,  Skr.  uddisya,  with 
reference  to,  A  28. 

uhu,  pronoun,  thee;  instr.  sing,  uhu-jsa, 
6  6";  7  6'";  apparently  written  ahu-jsa, 
6  a"- 

ukhaysde,  see  uskhays. 


A  a 


354 


VOCABULARY  TO 


upeksa, loanword,  Skr.  upeksa,  indifference, 

42  i>". 
upev,  loanword,  Skr.  utj>adaj/a-,  to  produce; 

3rd    pers.    plur.    pres.    upevari,    13  a"  ; 

future part.pass.ttpemmna, 9ai^ ;  266""'; 

U2)evdnd,  3 1 6". 
urmaysda,    subst.,   corresponding    to   Zd. 

ahuramazddh ;  it  is  used  to  translate  Skr. 

aditya,   tie  sun ;    uom.    sing,   urmaysde, 

41  6* ;  gen.  urmaysdam,  28  ai. 
uskbays,  to   rise,   to  increase ;    3rd  pers. 

sing.  pres.  uskhaysde,  A3;  6 ;  us- 
kliamysde,  A  3  ;  ttkhaysde,  A  16. 

uskyasta,  adv.,  up,  above,  12  a^. 

usmamna,  unidentified  word,  apparently  a 
pres.  part,  middle  or  a  gen.  plur. ;  seems 
to  translate  Skr.  upanisad  in  its  proverbial 
sense ;  idmdmna  masi,  so  much  as  an  us- 
mamna ;  3 1  a™ ;  37  a"i. 

usta,  subst.,  existence,  birth  (?) ;  ace.  plur. 
usta,  A  17. 

ustama,  adj.,  last,  least,  Zd.  ustema;  gen. 
sing,  ustamye,  1 3  5" ;  ustamdta,  in  the 
least,  even,  31  «' ;   36  t'l' ;  40  6". 

ustamajsi,  adj.,  last ;  aco.  sing,  ustamdjsl, 
13aiii,  Ji;  30  5"';  SSai";  gen.  sing. 
usiamdjsye,  43  5';  ustamdmjsye,  A  17  ; 
ustainauysye,  30  5'". 

UBtar,  to  wipe  off,  base  tars ;  3rd  pers.  sing, 
past,  ustadi,  24  a"'. 

iitca,  subst.,  water;  instr.  sing,  lica-jna, 
A  32  ;    gen.  sing,  vci,  A  32  ;    wca,  42  5". 

uvara,  loanword,  Skr.  uddra,  exalted,  2  «', 

"iivava,  loanword,  Skr.  aupapdduka,  self- 
produced  ;  nom.  plur.  uvavd,  9  5". 

livaysai,  loanword,  Skr.  updsaka,  a  lay 
worshipper;  nom.  plur.  uvdysd,  44  a'". 

uysamna,  subst.,  self,  reality;  gen.  sing. 
uysdmne,  24  6'" ;  34  a"-  '^  ;  uysdmnai, 
39a';  gen.  plur.  uysdmnd,  39a". 

uysananasama,  subst.,  conception  of  a 
self,  18  5';  see  ndsdma. 

Tiysdifi,  to  explain,  Zd.  uz-daes ;  3rd  pers. 
eing.  opt.  uysdlSiya,  21  5'';  uysdiiiyd, 
41o';  uysdUe,29a^;  A  2. 

uysnaura,  subst.,  a  being ;  nom.  sing. 
uysnaura,  42  5" ;   nom.  plur.  uysnaura, 

42  a"';  gen.  plur.  tiysnaurdna,  41  a'''. 


uysya,  loanword,  Skr.  upasikd,  a  female  lay 
worshipper ;  nom.  plur.  uysye,  44  a"'. 


va,  a  particle  adding  emphasis  or  implying 
an  assertion,  Zd.  vd;  used  to  add  emphasis, 
2  5"i;  4  5';  17  a',  5™;  23  5'";  a  vd,  or, 
21  a";  23  5";  au  vd,  the  same,  38  5'; 
cu  vd,  and   who,   9  5"i ;    23  6";     30  5"; 

40  6" ;  cu  nara  vd,  what  now,  what  should 
we  say,  14  5";  29  a"'";  ya-t;a«,  4  5"; 
khu  vd,  how,  6  5'^;  31a"';  42  5'^  ;  o  vd, 
andalso,  or,  115".'";  155™;  165';  21o"-; 
28  5';  29  a"i,  5" ;  32  a';  o  ot,  A  2;  Ua  vd, 
and  so,  2  a'";  3  a"  ;  42  5"  ;  tti  vd,  and  so, 
15";  ttl  vd,  the  same,  31  a"i;  34  5"; 
35 a'- '",  6"- iv ;  36  ai";  41  a'v  ;  A  7;  8; 
9;  10;  11;  12;    14;    15. 

vajis,  to  see,  to  perceive,  cf.  Zd.  ca^;  3rd 
pers.  sing.  -pvea.  vajisdi,  27  5'";  vajsesde, 

41  5"'. 

Vajrrachedaka,  loanword,  Skr.  Vajracche- 

dikd,  the  name  of  a  text;  nom.  Vajrra- 

fheddka,  2  5";  ace.   Vajrrachedaka,  44  5'; 

Vajrrachedaka,  2  5' ;  gen.  Vajrrachedakyi, 

2  5"';    21  a'v;     40  5'f;    Vajrrachidakyi, 

44  6";  Vajrrachedakamtrd,  30  5'";  36  5'^'. 
vamas,  to  reflect   upon,   cf.  Skr.  avamrs; 

3rd  pers.  sing.  pres.  vamakd,  16a';  instr. 

sing,   of  pres.   part,   vamasdkd-na,   6  6" ; 

7  5i". 
vamnaviya,    loanword,    Skr.    vandaniya, 

that  should  he  saluted,  29  5^. 
vamniha,  subst.,  opportunity  (1),  A  22. 
vana,  adv.,  here,  3  a'^ ;  A3;  varhnam,  A  38; 

probably  also  contained  in  vanddrrdysd, 

14  5";  vandsard,  15a';  cf.  vaysnam. 
vara,  adv.,   there,   then,    5  a"-  " ;    27  5' ; 

33  a"- ;   43  a' ;   44  a';  A  2  ;    vara,  A  1 7  ; 

rara-burd,  so  far,  1 3  a'. 
varasama,  subst.,  obtainment,  42  5'". 
vasara,  subst.,  a  thunderbolt,  Zd.  vazra,  25". 
vas,  to  recite,  read,  Zd.  vac  ;  3rd  pers.  sing. 

pres.    vdstd,  2  5';    A  39  ;    vdstn,  A3G; 

vdstaiii,   A34;   35;   37;    38;    3rd  pers. 

plur.  vdMd,  28a";  vdMi,  29  5'";  305"  ; 

3rd  pers.  sing.  opt.  vd^i,  3  a' ;  A  3  ;  cd-itya, 

■21  U;  37  aK 
vasiyamna,  unidentified,  42  a". 


VAJRACCHEDIKl  AND  APAEIMITAYUH  SUTEA     355 


vaski,  postpos.,  for,  towards,  A  22. 
vasta,  loanword,  Skr.  vastu,  a  thing  ;  gen. 

sing,  vastd,  10  6". 
vasta,  according  to  Professor  Leumann,  post- 
position,   extending    over,    during,    for, 
28  6iv. 
vasu,  adj.,  evil,  bad,  A  22 ;  vasu  dehUi,  evil- 
doers (?),  A  24. 
vasus,  to  become  purified,  cleansed ;  3rd 

pers.  plur.  pres.  vasusldd,  A  20  ;  21. 
vasve,  part,  purified,  clean,  14  a^ ;  43  6'"  ; 

perhaps  borrowed  from  Skr.  visiiddha. 
vatca,  see  pdtca. 
vaysnaih,  adv.,  here,  A  34  ;  35  ;  36  ;  37  ; 

39  ;  cf.  vana. 
vi,  postposition,  added  to  the  genitive  in 
order  to  form  a  kind  of  locative,  24  6iii- 1^ ; 
A  40  ;  cf.  vlra. 
vicitra,  loanword,  Skr.  vicitra,  manifold; 

nom.  plur.  vicitra,  42  a', 
vijs,  to  wander,  to  move  (?),  cf.  Zd.  vdej  (V) ; 

3rd  pers.  plur.  pres.  mjsydri,  42  a^^. 
vina,   loanword,  Skr.   vind,  without,   used 

with  a  genitive,  34  a"- "' ;  42  a". 
vipakaja,  loanword,  Skr.  vijidkaja,  result- 
ing from  the  ripening  (of  actions),  43  bK 
Vipasa,  nom.  proj)r.,  Skr.  Vipasyin,  name 

of  a  buddha,  A  30. 
vxra,  postposition,  in,  on,  forms  a  kind  of 
locative,  from  ■!;T,or  perhaps  connected  with 
Zd. ttpam;  where  the  case  of  the  preceding 
noun  can  be  identified,  it  is  put  in  the 
gen.;  see  ruvdm  vlra,  26  6";  compare 
2  6"';  4  6";  10  6"- ™i'>' ;  llai-»",  6i ; 
13a"-,  6i^-;  ISa";  20ai"-";  216i-™; 
23  6";  24  5i»-"';  26  6";  27  ai;  28  a"; 
39  ai;  40  6i-";  A23.  ^ 
virahya,  loanword,  Skr.  virdgita,  or  vird- 

dhita,  displeased,  30  h^. 
vir^a,  adj.,  connected  with  energy  (Skr. 

m,ry<x) ;  obi.  virUje,  A  37. 
vistarna,  loanword,  Skr.  vistarena,  in  full, 

216";  23  6i-f. 
vista,  to  place,  cf.  Skr.  avasthdpaya- ;  3rd 

pers.  sing,  past,  vistdtd,  4  6"'. 
vista,  to  stand;  future  part.  pass,  vistdnd, 

7  ai ;   8  6i'' ;  vistdna,  8  a". 
Visvambha,  nom.  propr.,  Skr.  Visvabhu, 
name  of  a  buddha,  A  30. 


vitram,    to   enter;    3rd    pers.    sing,   past, 

vitramda,  27  6";  cf.  tram. 
vuysai,  subst.,  a  being,  commonly  in  the 

phrase  haysumna  vuysai,  a  bodhisattva  ; 

nom.   sing,  vuysai,   15a';    266';    28  a| ; 

40  6" ;  instr.  sing,  vuysai-na,  6  6";   7  6"' ; 

8  6iii;    9aiii;    316";    406';    nom.   plur. 

viiysd,  60'",  6'' ;  instr.  plur.  vmjsyau-jsa, 

A  1. 
vyi,  I  was ;  vya,  vye,  vijetd,  vyitd,  was ;  vyd, 

might  be  ;  see  6i. 
vyach,   to  view,  grasp,   understand ;    3rd 

pers.  sing.  opt.  vyachi,  34  a'"- "';  fut.  part. 

pass,  vyachdriind,  40  6'. 
vyarana,   loanword,  Skr.  vydJcarana,  ex- 
planation,   preaching,     27 «" ;     with    t 

suffixed,  vydranai,  his  preaching,  27  o'". 
vyirasa,    loanword,    Skr.   vyaJcarisyat,    he 

would  have  prophesied,  33  a"'. 
vyiiha,  loanword,  Skr.  vyuha,  distribution, 

arrangement,    34  a"' ;     cf.    buddhaksitra- 

vyuhd,  and  byulid. 


yan,  to  do;  1st  pers.  sing,  present  act. 
yanumd,  18  a";  yanuih,  3  6';  3rd  pers. 
plur.  present  act.  yanldi,  30  6"  ;  3rd  pers. 
sing.  opt.  act.  yard,  [29  a']  ;  31a';  A3; 
29;   30;  33;  3rd  pers.  sing,  past,  yude, 

4  6';  24  a"  ;  A  40  ;  with  t  suffixed,  yudai, 

5  6" ;  3rd  pers.  plur.  yuddrhdd,  A  40  ; 
2nd  pers.  sing,  imper.  yam,  8  6'"  ;  1st  pers. 
sing,  present  middle,  yani,  26  «'  ;  30  a'"; 
3rd  pers.  sing,  yariidi,  44  o';  3rd  pers. 
plur.  yandre,  A  24  ;  yandri,  41  a™;  3rd 
pers.  sing.  conj.  middle,  yandve,  A  4  ; 
yaridti,  24  6"  ;  3rd  pers.  plur.  yandmde, 
3  6' ;  instr.  sing,  of  present  part,  yaadhi- 
na,  6  6i;  7  6";  past  part,  yudd,  4  6';  A  31 ; 
yudi,  A  30  ;  yude,  A  33. 

yasta,  see  hdstd. 

yauga,  probably  loanword,  Skr.  yoga ;  loc. 

sing,  yauga,  2  a''- 
ye,  enclitic  pronoun,  some  one,  one,  14  6'; 

43  o";  A  31. 
ye,  enclitic  particle,  seems  to  add  emphasis, 

ivL^d-va-e,  4  6"  ;  ndsdiid-ye,  30  a'';  nai-ye, 

38  a"'. 


a  2 


356 


VOCABULARY 


ya,  enclitic  conjunction;   ci-ya,  and  when, 

37  Jiii;  cf.  ta  in  Ul-ta,  4  feiv. 
ysa,  to  be  born,  cf.  Zd.  zan ;  3rd  pers.  sing. 

present  ysate,  A  1 7  ;  past  jjart.  ysd,  born, 

9  fti ;  ysata,  9  fti ;  ysaya,  9  i'. 
ysama,  according  to  Professor  Leumann,  the 

earth,  Zd.  zem;  ysama-^amdaina,  by  the 

earth-ground,  by  the  world,  2l6iv  ;  29  6'. 
ysamnu,  subst.,  a  knee  ;  cf.  Zd.  zanu,  5  6". 
ysamtha,  subst.,  birth,  existence,  Zd.  zantu ; 

ace.  sing,  ysamtha,  30  a"  ;  A  17  ;  ysathd, 

A6;    25;    nom.   plur.  ysamtha,   A   17; 

ace.  plur.2/sa</ia,26  a";  loc. plur.  j/sfflOT<A?;(i, 

30  a\ 
ysara,  numeral,  thousand  ;  cf.  Zd.  hazanra, 

A  18  ;  ysard,  30  6';  with  suffixed  t,  ysdri, 

A  23;  ysa/ramna,    a   thousandth,   3\a^; 

37  aii. 
ysini,  ysiniya,  subst.,  gratification  ;  otcurs 


in  compounds  with  the  past  participle 
of  haur,  to  give,  and  with  the  sub.-it. 
haurdmma,  gift  ;  thus  ysiniya-hauda,, 
favoured,  gratified,  7  6"' ;  ysmiya-haudi, 
66'i;  yswdhaudd,  86';  ysinlya-haurdiiime- 
jsa,  with  a  gratification,  6  6''^ ;  ysimyd- 
hauramme-jsa,  7  6"' ;  ynini-haurdmme-jsa, 
8  6". 

ysirra,  subst.,  used  to  translate  Skr.  dtman, 
self;  ysurasamna,  the  notion  of  an  ego, 
25  6"-. 

ysvaiiiBa,  loanword,  Skr.  svadamya,  that 
can  be  tasted ;  gen.  plur.  ysvamncmh,  266'"; 
ysvamnd,  WaP^;  20  a"'. 

ysvise,  unidentified  and  uncertain,  27  a''^. 

ysyan,  to  produce,  Zd.  zan ;  3rd  pers.  sing, 
opt.  ysydmne,  15  6™;  16a*;  29  a'; 
36  6"- i";  41a";  ysycme,  166"*;  29  a". 

yuda,  see  yan. 


KUCHEAN    FRAGMENTS 

Edited  by  Sylvain  Levi  (October,  191'2) 

[These  fragments  belong  to  the  consignment.  No.  149,  forwarded  to  me  from 
Simla,  in  April,  1907.  In  the  forwarding  letter  it  was  stated  that  they  had  been 
'  found  at  Jigdalik  and  Kaya,  near  Kuchar,'  by  a  man  of  Knehar,  called  Sahib  Ali. 
From  Sahib  All's  report  it  appears  that  Jigdalik  lies  one  day's  march  from  Bai,  and 
that  the  manuscript  fragments  were  dug  out  by  him  from  what  he  calls  '  a  house ', 
situated  in  '  the  hills  '  near  Jigdalik.  The  term  '  house  '  is  applied  by  the  natives  of 
Eastern  Turkestan  to  what  we  call  a  stupa,  or  shrine ;  see  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ancient 
Khotan,  vol.  i,  p.  483.  The  name  Jigdalik,  as  M.  Pelliot  informs  me,  is  not 
uncommon  in  Chinese  Turkestan,  and  signifies  simply  a  place  of  oleasters.  The 
material  of  the  fragments  is  stifhsh,  whitish  paper. — R.  H .] 

1.   PRlTIMOKSA' 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149f.     (Plate  XI,  No.  2.) 

Provenance.  —  O.N.O.  de  Koutchar.  Trouve  par  Sahib  Ali  dans  le  voisinage  de 
Bai.  Dimensions.  —  295  x  48  mm.  Un  feuillet  sans  marges,  a  pen  pres  intact,  sauf 
une  legere  echancrure  au  bas.  Le  trou  pour  la  ficelle  est  perce  a  7  cm.  du  bord 
o-auche.  Hauteur  moyenne  des  caracteres,  2  mm.  Le  chiffre  de  pagination  qui 
probablement  se  trouvait  au  bord  gauche  du  verso  est  perdu. 

Siijet.  —  Fragment  du  Pratimoksa  de  I'eeole  Sarvastivadin,  section  des  fautes 
2)di/ti  (correspondant  au  pdcittiya  pali) ;  commence  a  la  tin  du  payti  70 :  s'arrcte  au 
milieu  du  payti  85. 

A  la  suite  du  texte  koutcheen  et  de  la  traduction  de  chacun  des  articles,  j'ai 

donne : 

1°  [Sv.P.]     Le  texte  correspondant  du  Che-soung[-Uu)  pi-Jciu  po-lo-t'i-mou-tch'a 


^  Ce  fragment  a  dejk  paru  dans  le  Journal  of  the  Eoyal  Asiatic  Society,  January,  1913, 
pp.  109-20;  on  a  introduit  ici  quelques  correctionB  qu'il  est  inutile  de  signaler  en  detail. 

On    a   remplace  la  transcription  dh,  anterieurement  adoptee,  par  un  t  dans  les  mots 

koutcheens  par  symetrie  avec  les  transcriptions  h,  m,  n,  etc. ;  on  a  tcutefois  maintenu 
le  dh  dans  les  mots  sanscrits.  Les  signes  du  t  et  du  dh,  qui  differaient  sans  doute  k  I'origine, 
out  ete  plus  tard  confondus  dans  I'ecriture  de  Koutcha. 


358  KUCHEAN  PKAGMENTS 

Mai  pen,  version  chinoise  du  Pratimoksa  des  Sarvastivadin  due  £l  Kumarajiva,  vers 
A.D.  404  (Nanjio  1160  ;  ed.  Tokyo,  xvi,  7,  p.  43  sq.). 

2°  La  traduction  du  chinois, 

3°  [Pac]     L'artiele  correspondant  du  Pacittiya  pali. 

4°  La  traduction  du  pali. 

5°  [MvY.J  L'artiele  correspondant  du  Pratimoksa  des  Mula-Sarvastivadin, 
tel  qu'il  est  donne  dans  la  Mahavyutpatti,  ed.  Minayev-Mironov,  §  261. 

Recto. 

1  70  se  samane  lykawarsem  mpa  plaki  sa  ynari  yam  payti  71  se  samane 

meiik*  ikaiiipikwalamne  pi  onolmettse  wasariipat  yamaggam  payti 
su  ma  wasaiiipam  tak[(;(.TO] 

2  samani  ksalvi^  72  se  samane  sail  sar  sa  kerii  rapanaiii  rapatsi  wa^t 

watkag|am     payti     73     stwer     meiitsa     postanne^g     samanettse 
pudgalyi^k  kako  wa  ^ 

3  nalle   tumem    olya  warpata^r    payti    74   se   samane    pratimokgasiitar 

weskemane    mamt   wegiailTi    ma   iai^s    yesa^n   aknatsam,^s   reki   sa 
jajn-asliau 

4  preku   se  stita^r   winai  abllidha^^rm  aiykemane  takaili    payti    75    se 

samane  ^ilnantaiii  (^'^)e(xxx(  samanem^ts  klansa  pilsi  kaltr  payti 
76  se  samane 

Verso. 

1  saiikattse   pelaiyknesse   wattare    watko    takaiii    amjDlakante    parra 

tsenketa^r  payti   77  lj!«e  sa»jo|^ne  panaktettse  massa^t  yamaggam 
payti  78  se  ssJ^ jndne 

2  mo,,t  mala  trikelye  sa  sakse    yokaiii  payti   79   se  samane  ^   katkog 

preke  amplakante  k^Tasai  ne  yitmaggam  payti  80  se  samane  7iaU\g 

3  sa  postam    gitmalyne  sa  sa^rik   miyiggaili    payti   81   se  samane  yaka 

yasi  *>  sa  lante  kercyen  ne  yaiii  parna  tuyknesa  garma  mem  payti  82 
kuse  samane  pr«|c^i- 

''■  Erreur  haplographique  ;  coir,  naksalyi. 

''  Corr.  wdrpanalle.     Le  scribe  a  omis  I'aksara  rya  en  passant  k  la  ligne. 

'  Sic  MS.     Lire  scvmane. 

*  La  syllabe  ne  est  restituee  d'apres  un  fragment  de  la  oollectiou  Pelliot. 

"  La  syllabe  ya,  d'abord  omise,  a  ete  retablie  apres  coup  au-dessous  de  la  ligne. 


PRATIMOKSA  359 

4  mo\_k|  po  anjH,  sa  ma  klyaugam  payti  83  se  samane  ayasse  kemesse 
sucika^r  yamasta^r  payti  84  se  samane  pir  maiica^k  yamaska 
yarm  tsa  yamagalZe  pa(x 


TRADUCTION 

71.  Le  bhiksu  qui  fait  route  par  entente  avec  des  voleurs,  des  brigands,  payti. 

72.  Le  bhiksu  qui  fait  rupasampad  d'une  personne  qui  a  moins  de  ving-t 
ans,  il  est  payti.     Celle-ci  n'est  pas  upasampanna  ;  les  bhiksus  sont  a  blamer. 

73.  Le  bhiksu  qui  de  sa  propre  main  creuse  la  terre  ou  qui  la  fait  creuser, 
payti. 

74.  L'invitation  personnelle  d'un  bhiksu  pour  la  conclusion  des  quatre  mois 
doit  etre  aceeptee;  s'il  accepte  en  surplus  de  cela,  payti. 

7.5.  Le  bhiksu  qui,  en  reeitant  le  Pratimoksa-sutra^  parle  ainsi :  Ce  n'est  pas 
elair  pour  moi !  J'agis  sur  le  dire  des  ignorants.  Je  veux  interroger  quelqu'un  qui 
sait  le  Sutra,  le  Vinaya,  I'Abhidharma,  payti. 

76.  Le  bhiksu  qui  se  tient  a  portee  d'oreille  des  bhiksus  tandis  qu'ils  profferent 
(?  (w)e[skemanemts]  ?)  des  propos  violents,  payti. 

17.  Le  bhiksu  qui,  quand  une  affaire  de  loi  du  sariigba  est  en  train  d'etre 
reglee  sans  autorisation,  se  leve  sans  rien  dire,  payti. 

78.  Le  bhiksu  qui  fait  m6pris  du  Bouddha,  payti. 

79.  Le  bhiksu  qui  boit  de  raleool,  des  spiritueux,  du  vin  (?),  payti. 

80.  Le  bhiksu  qui,  le  temps  en  etant  passe,  sans  autorisation  entre  dans  un 
village,  payti. 

81.  Le  bhiksu  qui,  en  se  levant  d'avance  ou  par  infraction  apres,  fait  tort  au 
saiiigha,  payti. 

82.  Le  bhiksu  qui,  en  mendiant,  la  nuit^  va  dans  le  palais  du  roi,  en  dehors 
d'un  motif  conforme,  payti. 

83.  Le  bhiksu  qui  n'ecoute  pas  le  Pratimoksa  de  tout  son  coeur,  payti. 

84.  Le  bhiksu  qui  se  fait  un  etui  k  aiguilles  en  os  ou  en  come,  payti. 

85.  Le  bhiksu  qui  se  fait  un  lit  ou  un  siege,  il  faut  le  faire  a  la  mesnre  .  .  . 

LES  PARALLilLES 

7L  sv.p.  ^Yi^.%m^m.^.m.'iiTj^m-Wi%- 

Si  un  bhiksu,  de  propos  delibere,  fait  route  avec  une  troupe  de  brigands,  et 
qu'il  va  jusqu'k  un  village,  il  est  po-ye-fi. 


360  KUCHEAN   FRAGMENTS 

=  Pac.  66.  To  pana  hhikkhu  jaiiain  thei/i/asaWiena  >->aild]di)L  samviilhdi/a  eka- 
'IdJitlnaniaggam  patipajjeyya  antamaso  gdmantaraik  pi.  pdciUii/am. 

Si  un  bhiksu,  en  connaissance  de  cause,  se  met  en  route  apres  entente  prealable 
avec  une  troupe  de  biigands,  et  va  en  leur  compagnie  ne  fiit-ce  qu'au  prochain 
village,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  75  [7P  siksapada]  :  siej/asdrtJiagamanam.) 

72.  sv.p.  ^J;|i^-^yi- +aAM^JLJ^^>^^ 

Si  un  bhiksu  ^  u.n  homme  qui  n'a  pas  vingt  ans  accomplis  donne  integralement 
les  Defenses,  il  est  po-ye-t'i.  Get  homme  n'a  pas  re9u  les  Defenses,  et  les  bhiksus 
sont  a  blamer.     Telle  est  la  regie  du  eas. 

:=  Pac.  65.  Yo  pana  hhll'khu  jfniaiii-  uuavlsal ivassam  j^ufjgalaiU  upasanqwili'ijjja. 
so  ca piKjgalo  aniqjasanijjaniio  te  ca  llukkJm  gdrayhd  idam  tasmiili  pdcitt'ii/dw. 

Si  un  bhiksu,  en  connaissance  de  cause,  ordonne  une  personne  de  moins  de 
vingt  ans,  cette  personne  n'est  pas  ordonnee,  et  les  bhiksus  sont  a  blumer.  Tel  est 
dans  ce  cas  le  pacittiya, 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  76  [72'  siksapada]  :  tinavii'idatirarxopasai'iipddaiiaiii.) 

73.  sv.p.  ^i:li^i^|^i-t!i-^f|^A^-^=fi^Tt«g 

Si  un  bhiksu,  de  sa  propre  main,  ereuse  la  terre,  s'il  la  fait  creuser  par  quelqu'un, 
si  en  I'indiquant  de  la  main  il  dit  de  la  creuser,  il  asipo-ye-fi. 

=  Pac.  10.      Yo  pana  hJiikkhu  patliavan  kliaiieyya  vd  khandpeyya  vd  pdcittiyai'ii.. 
Si  un  bhiksu  ereuse  la  terre  ou  la  fait  creuser,  pacittiya. 
(Cf.  MvY.  261.  11  [73®  siksapada]  :  khananam.) 

^1^ 'ffi;  i  r^  if  i^ic m  i  r^ if -^ ^  i  f^ if  • 

Si  un  bhiksu  accepte  une  invitation  de  pleine-liberte  (=  pravdram)  pour  quatre 
mois,  et  qu'il  accepte  encore  au  dela,  il  est  p)o-ye-fi ;  sauf  invitation  de  pleine-liberte 
permanente,  sauf  invitation  de  pleine-liberte  repetee,  sauf  invitation  de  pleine-liberte 
speciale. 

=  Pac.  47.  Aglldneua,  Ijhihkhuud  cdiumdsapaccayapuvdriind  sdditnbld  aufhitra 
/junapardraiidya  amudni  niccapa mraauya  ,  iaio  ce  utiari  sddiyeyya pjdcUtiyam . 

Un  bhiksu  qui  n'est  pas  malade  doit  accepter  une  invitation  de  fournitures 
pour  quatre  mois,  en  dehors  d'une  invitation  repet6e,  en  dehors  d'une  invitation 
permanente.     S'il  accepte  en  surplus,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  78  [74"  siksapada]:  piavdrHdrthdtisevd.) 


PKATIMOKSA  861 

Si  un  bhiksu,  au  moment  de  dire  une  Defense,  parle  ainsi :  Moi,  je  n'apprends 
pas  encore  cette  Defense ;  je  veus  d'abord  interroger  les  bhiksus  qui  recitent  le 
Sutra,  le  Vinaya,  I'Abhidharma;  il  est  po-ye-fi.  Si  un  bbiksu  desire  obtenir 
le  profit  de  la  Loi,  il  doit  apprendre  ees  Defenses,  et  aussi  il  doit  interroger  les 
bhiksus  qui  recitent  le  Sutra,  le  Vinaya,  I'Abbidliarma,  et  il  doit  leur  parler  ainsi : 
Bhadantas  !    cette  expression,  quel  sens  a-t-elle  ?     Telle  est  la  regie  du  cas. 

=  Pac.  71.  Yo  iMiiu,  hhikkhu  hhikkuhi  sahadhammikaih  vnccamchio  evam  vacleyya  . 
na  tdvaham  dvuso  etasmiih  sikkhdpade  gikkJiimiini  ydra  nu  ahhai'ii  Ijhikkli ii I'u  hyattam 
vinayadharam  paripuccJidmtli  pdcittiyat'ii.  .  slkkhamdnena  hhikkhave  hliikkhiind  afind- 
tabbatk  paripuccMtabharh  par'qmnliitabham  .  ay  am  iattha  sdmici. 

Le  bhiksu  h  qui  des  bhiksus  disent  une  formule  de  la  Loi  et  qui  parle  ainsi  : 
Je  ne  m'instruirai  pas  —  longue  vie!  —  dans  cette  prescription  jusqu'a  ce  que  je 
questionne  un  bhiksu  eelaire,  porteur  du  Vinaya !  —  pacittiya.  Un  bhiksu, 
6  bhiksus !  qui  s'inst]-uit  doit  apprendre,  doit  questionner,  doit  se  demander.  C'est 
la  la  norme. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  80  [76"  siksapada]  :  SiksdpasamJidrapratik^ejjaJj.) 

76.  Sv.p.  ^),)c^m^t:^uWiWm^^m^w^m±. 

Si  un  bhiksu,  alors  que  les  bhiksus  se  querellent  et  se  disputent,  se  tient  dans 
une  caehette  en  silence  et  les  ecoute  en  pensant  ainsi :  Les  bhiksus,  ce  qu'ils  disent, 
je  veux  me  le  rappeler,  il  esi  po-ye-t'  i. 

=  Pac.  78.  1  o  pana  hlukklm  hJiikklmnai'it  Ihandaiiajdtdnam  kaln/iajdidaaik 
vivdddpanndnam  upa.isuth'ii  tittheyya  yam  hue  IJianissanti  lai'ii.  sossdirfdl  etad  eva 
paccayam  karitvd  anannam  pdciUlyam. 

Un  bhiksu  qui,  tandis  que  les  bhiksus  sont  en  discussion,  sont  en  querelle, 
tombent  en  desaccord,  se  tient  a  portee  d'oreille  en  pensant :  Ce  qu'ils  diront,  je 
I'entendrai !    avec  ee  motif,  et  sans  autre  motif,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  79  [75^  siksapada]  :  vjpakavagatam) 

77.  Sv.p.  ^j:l:^ftir*B#ft^^fe*-^:^^- 

Si  un  bhiksu,  quand  le  saihgha  tranche  une  affaire,  en  gardant  le  silence  se  leve 
«t  part,  il  est po-ye-t'i. 


362  KUCHEAN   FRAGMENTS 

=  Pac.  80.  Yo  pana  IjIiikkJut  mfiKjlie  vinicchayakathaya  vartamdndya  chandarh 
adalvd  vWidyuscDid pahkameyya  pdciUlyafn. 

Le  bhiksu  qui,  alors  qu'nne  afiaiie  a  decider  est  en  cours  devant  le  samgha,  sans 
donner  son  consentement  pr6alable,  se  leve  de  son  siege  et  s'en  va,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  81  \jl'T^  siksapada]  :   tmnimviprakrcunanam.) 

78.  sv.p.  ^  yi  ^mit  )>\.  ^-m^^- 

Si  un  bhiksu  manque  de  respect  a  un  autre  bhiksu,  il  est  po-ye-t'i. 

=  Pac.  54.    mmdariye  pantthjai'i. 

En  cas  de  manque  de  respect,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  Mvy.  261.  82  [78^  siksapada]  :  anddaravrttam) 

79.    Sv.p.    ^  J;(.  ^  1^  ,^g  .  .^  ^  ^ 

Si  un  bhiksu  boit  de  I'alcool,  il  esi  jw-ye-t'i. 

=  Pac.  51.    surumerayajpdm  pdcittiyam. 

Si  on  boit  des  liqueurs  aleooliques  ou  fermentees,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  Mvy.  261.  83  [79"  siksapada]  :  mirdmaireyamadyapdnam.) 

80.  Sv.p.  ^Y\,^  ^MtAJ^m-^e^^k^iSt^^- 

Si  un  bhiksu  hors  temps  entre  dans  un  village  sans  informer  un  bon  bhiksu,  il 

%^\,  ]}0-ye-fi,  sauf  raisons. 

=  Pac.  85.  Yo  pana  bhikkhu  santaili  hhikklnn'n  mnqmcc/id  vikdle  gdmam  pari- 
seyya  auhatra  tathdmpd  accdyikd  karaniya  pdcittiyaw. 

Le  bhiksu  qui  sans  demander  I'autorisation  a  un  bon  bhiksu  entre  hors  temps 
dans  un  village,  a  moins  d'affaire  urgente  conforme,  piicittiya. 

(Cf.  Mvy.  261.  84  [80"  siksapada]  :  akdlacaryd) 

81.  Sv.p.  ^il^m'k^m'k^.'i^^tkM'^^^- 

Si  un  bhiksu  invite  a  un  repas,  avant  le  repas  ou  apres  le  repas,  va  en  tournee 
dans  d'autres  maisons,  il  est  po-ye-fi . 

=  Pac.  46.  Yo  pana  MikkJui,  nimanlUo  sahJiatto  samdiw  sanlam  hJiikkJinik 
andpucclm  purebliatiai'ii  vd  pacclidhliatiai'ii  rd  kiilesu  cdriUai'ii  dpajjeyya  anfiatra  samayd 
pdciUiyai'ii  taitJidyai'ii  samayo  .  clvaraddnasamayo  clvarakdrafsaiiiayo  .  ayafih  iaUJia 
■winayo. 

Le  bhiksu  qui  etant  invite,  deja  pourvu  d'un  repas,  sans  demander  (I'autorisa- 
tion) a  un  bon  bhiksu,  soit  avant  le  repas,  soit  apres  le  repas,  se  met  a  faire  une 
tournee    dans  les  families  —  sauf  le    temps   legal,  —  pacittiya.      Le   temps  legal, 


PRATIMOKSA  363 

c'est  le  temps  ou  on  donne  la  veture,  Ic  temps  oil  on  fait  la  vuture.     C'est  1^  le 
temps  legal. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  85  [81"  siksapada]  :  knlacaryS) 

Si  im  bhiksu,  chez  nn  roi  ksatriya  qui  a  1-6911  I'onction  du  sacre,  qnand  la  niiit 
ne  s'eclaircit  pas  encore,  quand  on  n'a  pas  encore  feeire  les  joyaux,  depasse  le  seuil  de 
la  porte,  il  est  2^o-i/e-i^i,  sanf  raisons. 

=  Pac.  83.  lo pana  hhikkhu  ranho  kliattiyasm  mwhJlulvaKltiu^Ha  anikkhanfara- 
jake  aniggataratanake  puUbe  appatisai'uvidito  indakhilaih  aUkkumeyija  piicitthjai'ii . 

Le  bhiksu  qui,  chez  un  roi  ksatriya  qui  a  re9u  I'onction  royale,  quand  le  roi 
n'est  pas  sorti,  quand  les  joyaux  [le  comm.  explique  :  la  reine]  ne  sont  pas  sortis, 
sans  s'etre  annonce  au  prealable,  depasse  le  seuil,  pacittiya. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  86  [82"=  siksapada]  :  rajahdarairicarya.  Mais  nous  possedons 
ici  le  teste  meme  de  la  prescription  du  Mula-Sarvastivada  Vinaya,  conservee  avec 
son  eommentaire  dans  le  Makandika  du  Divyavadana,  p.  543  sq. 

Yali  punar  bhiksur  anirgatdyum  rajanydm  anndgate  'nine  anirlirte^u  ra/ne-ni  ratna- 
sammatesii  vd  rdjnali  ksatriyasya  murdJtdbMsiktasya  indrakilaiu  rd  hidrak'ila.mmantai'ii 
td  samatikrdmed  anyatra  tadrupdt  pratyaydt  puyaufikd. 

Le  bhiksu  qui,  quand  la  nuit  n'est  pas  encore  passee,  quand  I'aurore  n'est  pas 
levee,  quand  ne  sont  pas  encore  retires  les  joyaux  ou  ce  qu'on  tient  pour  des  joyaux, 
chez  un  roi  ksatriya  qui  a  re^u  I'onction  royale,  depasse  le  senil  de  la  porte  ou  les 
alentours  du  seuil,  sauf  motif  conforme,  payantika. 

La  tradition  variait  done  entre  rujaka,  le  roi,  et  rajain,  la  nuit.) 

83.    Sv.P.^J;|i^|^5J^H^^H^^|^4^A^t,_^^|^ 

i^u^  '^  n  ^^  n  1^'^^  m-  m  y\.  :^  ^^  m  y\.  :^  7^  ^ 
^  n^^  ~mi^^  '^  ■  m  u^  m  )^\.  :^r^  )>xr^  ^^  ^k% 

Si  un  bhiksu,  au.  moment  de  reciter  les  Defenses,  parle  ainsi :  C'est  maintenant 
que  j'apprends  pour  la  premiere  fois  que  eette  Loi  est  enoncee  dans  le  Livre  des 
Defenses,  est  recitee  tons  les  demi-mois  dans  le  Livre  des  Defenses.  Les  bhiksus 
savent  que  ee  bhiksu  a  siege  deja  deux  fois,  trois  fois,  h,  plus  forte  raison  davantage, 
pendant  qu'on  recitait  les  Defenses  ;  ce  bhiksu  ne  pent  pas,  a  cause  de  son  ignorance. 


s 


364  KUCHEAN   FEAGMENTS 

obtenir  d'etre  exevise.  Selon  sa  faute,  de  la  maniere  que  la  loi  prescrit,  il  faut  le  traiter  : 
Toi,  bhadanta,  toi  tu  as  failli,  tu  n'auras  pas  de  profit,  tu  n'es  pas  bien ;  quand  on 
recite  les  Defenses,  tu  n'honores  pas  les  Defenses ;  tu  ne  penses  pas  que  en  verite 
il  en  est  ainsi  ;  tu  ne  les  veneres  pas  ;  tu  n'y  appliques  pas  ton  coeur  ;  tu  n'y  penses 
pas  en  coneentrant  ton  esprit ;  tu  n'eeoutes  pas  et  tu  ne  suis  pas  la  Loi.  Par 
consequent,  po-ye-fi. 

=  Pac.  73.  Jo  i/ana  hldkkhv,  anvmhlliamauim  piiiimokklie  wldissamdHe  evai'u 
Viidcijya  .  idiin  eva  kho  al/ai'u.  jdndiid  ayai'ii,  pi  kira  d/iammo  suttdgato  .ndtapariyapanno 
aiivaddliamd^ai'ii  nddcaam  agaccliatdti  .  fan  ce  hhihklnii'ii  aiihe  hldkkhv,  jdneyyui'ii  idsinna- 
jjubbam  miind  bhikkhiiud  drill ikkJuiU ui'ii  pdtiniokkhe  uddissamdne  ko  pana  vddo  hhiyyo 
ua  ca  tassa  Ihikkhuno  anhdlakena  mvtti  aitlil  yan  ca  tattha  dpatiim  dpanno  tan  ca 
yatliddliammo  kdretahbo  idlari  cus-ta  1110I10  drupeiabho  .  tassa  te  dvuso  aldbJid  tassa  te 
dnlladdhaiii,  yaiii  tram  2idtimokklie  itddissamdne  na  sddhukahi  attjdkatvd  manasikaroslti  . 
idavi.  taswiih  mohanake  jpacittiyafii. 

Le  bhiksu  qui,  a  la  lecture  du  Pratimoksa  tous  les  demi-mois,  vient  a  parler 
ainsi :  C'est  maintenant  seulement  que  je  sais  que  telle  est  la  Loi  qui  se  trouve  dan 
le  Sutra,  qui  est  recueillie  dans  le  Sutra,  qui  revient  en  recitation  tous  les  demi-mois  : 
si  les  autres  bhiksus  savent  que  ce  bhiksu  a  deja  siege  deux  fois,  trois  fois,  a  plus 
forte  raison  davantag-e,  pendant  la  recitation  du  Pratimoksa,  ce  bhiksu  n'est  point 
quitte  a  cause  de  son  ignorance,  il  faut  lui  appliquer  le  traitement  que  la  Loi 
prescrit  pour  sa  faute,  et  il  faut  de  plus  I'aceuser  de  folic :  "\^oila  ce  que  tu  as 
manque  ^  gagner ;  voil^  un  facheux  profit  poui-  toi,  parce  que  pendant  la  recitation 
du  Pratimoksa  tu  ne  te  recueilles  pas  bien,  tu  ne  t'appliques  pas.  C'est  1^  le 
pacittiya  en  cas  d'egarement. 

(Cf.  MvT.  261.  87  [83"  siksapada]  :  sikm[)o,dadravyatiivya.vacdrali^ 

84.  sv.p.  ^  Yl  ^-^  ^^  M^  %  \^'i\  '^■'^^^- 

Si  un  bhiksu  fait  un  etui  a  aiguilles  en  os,  en  ivoire,  en  corne,  po-ye-fi. 

=  Pac.  86.  To  pana  bhikkku  atthiiuayaiii  m  dantamayam  td  ritidiiatiuiyam  vd 
sucigliarai'ii  kardjieyya  hliedaaakarii  jjdclttiyai'ii. 

Le  bhiksu  qui  fait  faire  un  etui  a  aiguilles  en  os,  ou  en  ivoire,  ou  en  corne, 
pacittiya  d'infraction. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  88  [8-1®  siksajiada]:  sncigrJiakaxai'upddanam.) 

Si  un  bhik.su  \-eut  se  faire  un  siege  ou  un  lit,  la  hauteur  doit  etre  exactement 
de  huit  doigts,  sans  compter  les  marches  pour  y  atteindre.  S'il  d^passe  eette  mesure, 
il  eskpo-ye-t'i. 


PRATIMOKSA  365 

=  Pac.  87.  navam  pana  bhikk/iuna  mancaih  vd  fitliui'ii.  vd  kdrayamavena 
attjiangii.lapddakahi  karetahiam  nigatawjtdena  amiatra  liettliimdya  aluniyd  tarn  at'ikkd- 
mayato  chedanakaih  pdcittiyam. 

Si  un  bhiksu  se  fait  faire  un  lit  ou  \m  siege  neuf,  il  doit  le  faire  faire  de  huit 
doigts,  en  doigts  du  Sugata,  deduction  faite  des  marches  posees  au-dessous.  Si  on 
depasse  cette  mesure,  c'est  un  pacittiya  de  coupure. 

(Cf.  MvY.  261.  89  [85^  siksapada]  :  pddakasaihpddanam.) 

2.   PRAYA^CITTIKA   ET   PEATIDESANlYA 

Hoernle  MSS.,  Nos.  149^  et  149i.     (Plate  XIX,  Nos.  2,  3.) 

Les  deux  feuillets  qui  portent  dans  la  collection  de  M.  Hoernle  les  cotes 
149f  et  149f  mesurent  350  mm.  x  77  mm.  ;  le  trou  destine  au  passage  de  la 
ficelle  qui  reliait  tout  I'ouvrage  est  a  78  mm.  du  herd  gauche  ;  la  hauteur  des 
caracteres  sans  prolongement  {pa,ya,  etc.)  est  d'environ  3  mm..  lis  portent  ^  la 
marge  du  verso  respectivement  les  chiffres  de  pagination  108  et  109,  et  en  effet  ils 
se  font  suite. 

Ils  proviennent  d'une  sorte  de  commentaire  historique  sur  le  Pratimoksa,  analogue 
au  Sutta-vibhaiiga  pali,  et  qui  racontait,  h.  propos  de  chaque  prescription,  I'episode 
qui  en  avait  provoque  I'origine.  L'ouvrage  se  rattache  certainement  au  Vina}'a  des 
Sarvastivadins  ;  j'ai  eu  I'oecasion  de  le  demontrer  en  detail  dans  le  Journal  Asiatiqiie 
(janv.-fevr.  1912,  pp.  101  sqq.) ;  je  me  contenterai  de  rappeler  brievement  que  le 
nombre  et  le  classement  des  peehes  qui  correspondent  aux  pacittiyas  palis  ecartent 
formellement  tous  les  autres  Vinayas  connus. 

Le  feuillet  108  s'ouvre  au  cours  d'un  recit  qui  introduit  la  89*"  prescription ; 
un  second  episode  vient,  des  la  seconde  ligne,  se  greffer  sur  le  recit  initial ;  ce  nouvel 
episode  a  pour  scene  Sravasti,  pour  personnages  le  Bouddha  (paniikte)  et  Kalodaye. 
En  fait,  le  Vinaya  des  Sarvastivadins,  tel  qu'il  nous  est  connu  par  la  version  chinoise 
de  Kumarajlva  et  Punyatrata,  datee  de  a.d.  404,  rapporte  deux  episodes  a  propos 
du  89'  po-ye-t'i.  II  suffira  danalyser  le  premier  recit  puisque  nous  n'en  avons  que 
la  derniere  ligne  dans  le  texte  koutcheen ;  je  donnerai  la  traduction  integrale  du 
second,  que  nous  avons  tout  entier  en  koutcheen. 

Sv.  V.  —  Po-ye-t'i  89.  (a)  Le  Bouddha  est  k  Vaisiili.  En  ee  temps-1^  les 
bhiksus  souillent  leur  lit  de  leur  semence.  Le  matin,  au  rdveil,  ils  lavent  la  tache 
et  laissent  la  literie  sdcher  a  la  porte  de  leur  logis.  Avant  le  repas,  le  Bouddha  passe 
sa  veture,  prend  son  vase,  entre  dans  la  ville  ponr  y  mendier  sa  nourriture.  II  voit 
la  literie  souillee  qu'on  a  lavee  et  qui  seche  a  la  porte  des  logis.  Apres  le  repas, 
le  Bouddha  reunit  pour  cette  affaire  I'assemblee  des  bhiksus.    II  leur  dit  ee  qu'il  a  vu 


366  KUCHEAN   FEAGMENTS 

dans  sa  tournee  en  ville  et  condamne  cette  pratique  inconvenante.  II  enonce  les 
cinq  d^savantages  qu'on  eprouve  a  s'endormir  I'esprit  en  d^sordre,  et  les  cinq 
avantages  qu'on  recueille  a  s'endormir  I'esprit  en  ordre  (=  Ahguttara-Nikaya, 
pancaka  CCX).  Puis  il  autorise  I'emploi  du  nisTdana,  sans  fixer  de  dimensions. 
Les  bhiksas  abusent  de  cette  imprecision  pour  se  faire  des  nisTdanas  longs  et 
larges.     Le  Bouddba  les  r^unit,  les  tance  encore,  efc  fixe  les  dimensions  permises. 

{h)  Le  Bouddba  est  a  Che-wei  (Sravasti).  En  ee  temps-la  le  Bouddba  avant 
midi  passe  sa  veture,  prend  son  vase,  entre  dans  Che-wei  pour  y  mendier  sa 
nourriture.  Apres  manger,  il  entre  dans  le  bois  An-fo ;  sous  un  arbre,  il  etend 
son  ni-cfd-fan  et  s'asseoit.  L'ayusmat  Kia-lou-fo-yi  aussi  entre  dans  le  bois  An-t'o. 
A  I'eeart  de  Bhagavat,  non  loin,  il  se  met  sous  un  arbre,  etend  son  ni-chi-fan  et 
s'asseoit.  Or  I'ayusmat  avait  le  corps  tres  long ;  ses  deux  genoux  toucbaient  la 
terre  et  ses  deux  mains  tenaient  I'etoffe.  II  forma  ce  soubait:  Quand  done 
Bhagavat  nous  permettra-t-il  de  faire  un  ni-cJd-t'an  long  d'un  empan  de  Bouddba ! 
Comme  cela,  ce  serait  suffisant !  Et  alors  Bhagavat  se  leva  de  sa  meditation ;  pour 
cette  affaire  il  reunit  I'assemblee  des  bbiksus,  et  il  dit  aux  bbiksus :  Aujourd'bui, 
a  I'beure  du  repas,  j'ai  mis  ma  veture,  j'ai  pris  mon  vase  et  je  suis  entre  dans  la 
ville  pour  y  mendier  la  nourriture  ;  puis,  apres  manger,  je  suis  entre  dans  le  bois 
An-t'o;  sous  un  arbre  j'y  etendis  mon  ni-chi-t' an  et  m'assis.  Kia-lou-t o-yi  apres 
avoir  mendie  sa  nourriture  vint  aussi  sous  un  arbre,  et  il  fit  cette  reflexion :  En  quel 
lieu  le  Bouddba  pratique-t-il  en  ce  moment  la  voie  ?  je  veux  y  pratiquer  la  voie. 
Et  j'etais  alors  entre  dans  le  bois  An-t'o  ;  sous  un  arbre  j'y  avals  etendu  un  ni-cM-t'an. 
Et  Kia-Iou-t' o-yi  fit  de  meme.  Or  cet  homme  a  le  corps  grand ;  ses  deux  genoux 
touchaient  le  sol.  Et  il  fit  ce  soubait :  Quand  done  Bhagavat  nous  permettra-t-il 
de  faire  un  iii-clii-fan  d'un  empan  du  Bouddba?  Comme  cela,  ce  serait  sufiisant ! 
Le  Bouddba  dit  aux  bbiksus :  A  partir  d'aujourd'hui  eeci  est  la  rfegle  et  il  faut 
I'enoncer  ainsi :  '  Si  un  bhiksu  veut  faire  un  ni-chi-i'an,  il  doit  le  faire  a  la  mesure. 
La  mesure,  c'est  en  longueur  deux  coudees  de  Bouddba ;  en  largeur  une  coudee  et 
demie  ;  la  lisiere,  une  coudee  en  plus.     Passe  cette  mesure,  c'est  po-ye-t'i.' 

Texte  Koutcheen. 
Feuillet  108.     Redo. 

1  (A:)akauwa  "^  !§esuwer  postarii  panakte    sari    kraupate  ♦^  ce^u    wattare 

naksate  'v  xn  kikraktsi  sa  sam[a]nettse  '^  enatketse  ma^  ceppille^ 

2  ma  wsaiialle  -^  prastram  yatka  yamtsi  •^  ii  panakte   Sravasti  ne  mas- 

kitr  "^  tsoiikai^k  patrai  wastsi  kamate  Sravasti  ne  ]iirritwat  yopsa  "^ 


^  Les  syllabes  'iiui  et  lie  ont  ete  fournies  par  le  fragment  Hoevnle,  MS.  No. 


1_49. 
~8  4  • 


PEAYASCITTIKA  ET  PKATIDESANlYA  367 

3  se^uwer  postam  'v  nisidaiii  kamate  SMclhaxe  wartto  ne  masa  ompals- 

konne  lamatsi  "^  saulassu  Kalodaye  panakte  o- 

4  mpostaiii    masa  -^  paiiakte    alyeka   kca   stam   no^r   nisidaiii    raksane 

lyama  •^  Kalodaye  rano  alyeka  kca  stam  nor  oppilaiia- 

5  ttsa  nisidaiii  raksane  lyama  "^  su  no  orotse  kektsen  tsa  "■  annapi  keni  ^  sa 

kem  teksa  'n  tumerh  wenawa  »^  watkassi  pi  panakte  nisidaiii 

6  lire  -  merh  kalymi  raso  tsamtsi  •^  ii  lamalle  ^  sa  samanettsa  yamaskemane 

sa  "v  yarmaiiissu  yamagalle  -^  omne  se  yarma  parkariie 

Ve7'so. 

1  sa  wirsonca  -^  panaktettse  raso  sa  «^  pkante  sa  sle  y  warca  "^  lire^ts  raso  "^ 

tumeiii  orhsap  yamtr  '^  y&^  passenca  ii  paiiakte  Kapilava- 

2  stu  ne  maskitr  »^  paiiaktettse  proce^r  Nande  *  ne-^m  <^  krui  sail  ne  yapi 

sklokacci  samani  ywarca  maskiyentr  '^  paiiakte  wat  yopsa 

3  Nande  *     wa^t  •^  wilaksanaiica  ^  <^  panakte     merti     Nandettse     meii- 

kisai  •N  ^twara  prarorii  paiiakte  meni  mefikisai  •^  paiiaktettse  wastsi 

4  mpa  sa^m  •^  wastsi    yamassitr  •^  paiiakte    k/yausa    sail    kraupate  '>  ce 

siksapa^t  sanmya  -^  ii  maksu  no  samane  "^  paiiaktettse 

5  wastsittse  yarm  tsa  wastsi  yamatr  •^  oriissap  wa^t  paiiaktaiiiie  wastsi 

meiii  -^  ^ra^passeiica  "^  omne  ce  paiiaktettse  wastsittse  yarma  -^ 

6  £arkariiiie  sa  nu  rsonta  -^  panaktaiiiie  raso   sa  'n  pkante  sa  ska,^s  '^  te 

om[7i]e  paiiaktettse  wastsit[is]e  yarma  ^  •>  90  ii  weweTiXwa  tia(s«) 

Feuillet  109.     lledo. 

1  saulassoiica  iiumka  -^  /a^  passeiicana  pelaiknenta  -^  om  ne  iia^s  -^  makte 

nau(£)  II     11  cai  no|saM/a(ssoiica  stw[a]ra  wrattsai  aksassr^xxx 

2  laiknenta  artsa  ywarca  me^iia  pratimoksasse  pi  sutarttse  aksaliie  ne 

ecce  katmaskem  '>  ii  pa(7la)A-/e  Sravasti  ne  maskitr  -^  omne  k|e 

3  statse   prekesai  "^  Ujjpalavarna^iia  asiyattse  •^  yarke  peti   maka   spor- 

ttitr  «^  maka  swatsanma  kalpas.si  --  tu  sa?)z« 

'  Le  fragment  J-^  porte  :  kenine  sa.  "  nreih  J^.  '  lamalya  Jg^. 

*  Sic  MS.     Lire  nande.  ■'  Sic  MS.     Lire  °ksa°. 

"  J'ai  deji  publie  I'episode  de  Nanda  (109  i^'-'^)  avec  une  traduction  et  lea  textes 
paralifeles  dans  le  Journal  Asiatique,  1912,  I.  101-116.  J'ai  pu  rectifier  ici  quelques 
erreurs  que  j'avais  commises. 


368  KUCHEAN   FEAGMENTS 

4  ne^ts  past  aissi   ^watsi  '^  tay  no  trite  kaumsai  "^  e^uwacca  maskitr  -^ 

tumeiii  leswi  ensanta  ne  -^  yaka  ynemane  nauttai  ne  A;laya  "^ 

5  karyorttau  ksa  lyakate  -^  ista  klautka  <^  ^no  yaksa  "^  tumeiii  sa^u  se^m 

kauc  ersate  ne  "^  oskai  wayate  ne  -^  ^watsi  wanksate  ne  <-■  panakte 

6  klyausa  naksate  ii  maksu   no  samane   ma  alasmo   eneiika  os  ne  pim- 

twata^sca  ynemane  "^  aletsai  asiyai  merii  -^  .s«\iia  sar  sa  trasxa- 

Verso. 

1  l}'e  "^  tsalnalye    encitr  -^  ce^u    samanettsa  -^  samanetts^Eiksagalle  '^  nak- 

salye  sa  saulassoiici  kekatkau  nesau  -^  ma  ayato  a- 

2  ksaggalye  -^  cew    ike    aksaskau  "^  se   pelaikne    wrattsai   aksa||alle  -^  ii 

II  panakte  Sravasti  ne  maskitr  <-■  tanapate  ksa  sama- 

3  neiii  asiyana  gpa  ^watsi^  kakate  "^  tumerii  Sthulananda  ce^u  tanapatem 

sarsassi  -^  samp  araiine  ste  cwim  nauga  pete  "^ 

4  caim  no  agamadhari  skente  <^  sam  no  abhidharmike  ste  -^  sam  wiuasare  -^ 

tusa  tanapate  krasiyate  -^  xwa  pitkawe  {m)si 

5  mlama^m  ^^  panakte  klyansa  naksate  ii  samani  no  masar  ostuwaiwenta 

ne  kakakas  takau  swatsi^co  '^  omne  krui  asiya  gar(s)e- 

6  maneniia  stmausa  tako,,ya  -^  tane  klu  pete  ^  tane  smaiine  pete  "^  tane 

(._s')pa^k  pete  <^  sawaxx  samawe^ts  mantraA-a  /a/i;o(yya)sjxJ 

TRADUCTION.! 

Pdyii  89.  [Fol.  108 II,  1.  1]  ...  apres  manger,  le  Bouddha  reunit  le  samgha ; 
il  blame  cette  affaire ;  par  le  fait  de  .  .  .  d'un  bhiksu  ...  [1.  2]  il  ne  faut  pas 
demeurer  (avec)  qui  s'occiipe  de  faire  etalage  au  grand  air  (prastarana). 

Le  Bouddha  est  a  Sravasti.  Le  matin  il  prend  son  vetement,  et  il  entra  dans 
SrfivastT  pour  mendier  la  nourriture.  [1.  3]  Apres  le  repas  il  prend  un  nisldan 
et  il  resta  dans  le  bois  Andha  pour  s'asseoir  en  meditation.  L'ayusmat  Kalodaye 
y  fut  apres  le  Bonddha.  [1.  4]  Le  Bouddha  sous  un  arbre  quelconque  etendant  le 
nisldan  s'assit.  Kalodaye  aussi  sous  un  arbre  quelconque  a  I'ecart  [1.  5]  etendant 
le  nisldan  s';issit.  Mais  il  avait  le  corps  grand ;  des  deux  genoux  il  touchait 
le  sol.  Alors  il  dit:  Puisse  le  Bouddha  autoriser  [1.  6]  a  ajouter  au  nisldan  une 
coudee  a  partir  de  la  frange.     Le  bhiksu  qui  se  fait  de  quoi  s'asseoir,  il  doit  le  faire 

'  La  tiaductiou  en  koutoheen,  sans  se  piquer  d'une  fidelite  litt^rale,  a  r6sum6  le  recit 
avec  gout. 


PEAYASCITTIKA  ET  PEATIDE^ANlYA  S69 

k  la  mesure.  L^-dedans,  la  mesure  est  en  longueur  [Fol.  108  b,  1.  1]  deux  coudees, 
en  coudees  du  Bouddha ;  en  largeur  une  et  demie ;  des  franges,  une  coudee.  Qui 
fait  plus  que  cela,  etc.,  est  passenca  (=  payantika). 

Pd^ti  90.  [Fol.  108i,'l.  1]  Le  Bouddha  est  k  Kapilavastu.  [1.  2]  Le  Bouddha 
a  nn  frere  nomme  Nanda.  Quand  il  entre  dans  I'assemblee,  les  religieux  confus 
sont  partages  en  deux :  Est-ce  le  Bouddha  qui  est  entr^  ?  [1.  3]  ou  bien  est-ce 
Nanda  ?  Nanda  a  deux  laksana  de  moins  que  le  Bouddha ;  il  a  quatre  doigts 
de  taille  en  moins  que  le  Bouddha.  II  se  fait  faire  [1.  4]  une  robe  pareUle  a  la 
robe  du  Bouddha.  Le  Bouddha,  I'ayant  appris,  reunit  la  communaute ;  cette  pre- 
scription est  proclamee  :  Le  religieux  quel  qu'il  soit,  [1.  5]  qui  se  fait  une  robe 
h  la  mesure  de  la  robe  du  Bouddha,  ou  plus  grande  que  la  robe  du  Bouddha,  il  est 
en  faute.  A  ce  sujet,  voici  la  mesure  de  la  robe  du  Bouddha :  [1.  6]  en  longueur, 
9  coudees — des  coudees  du  Bouddha  —  en  largeur,  6.  Telle  est  k  ce  sujet  la  mesure 
de  la  robe  du  Bouddha. 

[Fol.  1085,  1.  6]  Par  moi  ont  ete  dites,  [Fol.  109  a,  1.  1]  6  vous  qui  avez  la 
vie  (=  dymmai),  les  90  lois  de  garde,  etc.  L^-dessus,  je  .  .  .  comme  ci-dessus. 
Voici,  6  vous  qui  avez  la  vie,  les  quatre  lois  k  reciter  publiquement ;  [1.  2]  a  la  fin 
du  demi-mois,  dans  la  recitation  du  Prdtimokm-sutar,  elles  arrivent. 

Pratidesaniya  1.  [Fol.  109  a,  1.  2]  Le  Bouddha  est  k  Sravasti ;  alors  c'est 
[1.  3]  une  periode  de  famine.  La  nonne  Uppalavarna  a  beaucoup  de  portions ; 
beaucoup  lui  en  fournissent ;  elle  re9oit  beaucoup  a  manger,  [1.  4]  et  elle  le  donne 
ensuite  k  manger  aux  moines.  Or  le  troisieme  jour,  elle  est  affamee;  elle  perd 
connaissance ;  en  allant  mendier,  elle  a  un  vertigo  dans  la  rue.  [1.  5]  Un  marchand 
la  vit ;  anssitot,  se  retournant,  il  appela  sa  femme.  Alors  celle-ci  vint ;  elle  la 
relive  tant  bien  que  mal,  la  conduit  dans  sa  maison,  lui  prepare  a  manger.  Le 
Bouddha  [1.  6]  I'ayant  entendu  blame  :  Tout  moine  qui  sans  etre  malade  va  mendier 
sa  nourriture  dans  une  maison,  et  qui  d'une  nonne  ^trangere  re9oit  dans  sa  propre 
main  [Fol.  109  b,  1.  1]  k  croquer  ou  a  avaler,  ce  moine  doit  en  faire  la  declaration 
aux  moines :  0  vous  qui  avez  la  vie,  je  suis  affecte  d'une  chose  reprehensible ;  ce 
n'est  pas  bien ;  [1.  2]  il  faut  le  declarer.  Ce  point,  je  le  declare.  C'est  une  loi  a 
declarer  publiquement. 

Pratid.  2.  [Fol.  109  b,  1.  2]  Le  Bouddha  est  a  Sravasti.  Un  tandpate  (dana- 
pati)  invite  les  moines  [1.  3]  et  les  religieuses  a  manger.  Alors  Sthulananda  donne 
des  ordres  a  ce  tandpate:  Celui-ci  est  un  Aranyaka^;  k  lui  la  premiere  portion. 
[1.  4]  A  ceux-ci ;  ce  sont  des  aijamadhari ;  k  celui-la ;  c'est  un  ahliidJiarmika ; 
acelui-la;  il  s'emploie  au  culte.   Le  tandpate  se  fache  et  dit  :  Bavarde,  ne  [1.  5] 

'  Cette  interpretation  est  garantie  par  la  variante  graphique  du  fragment  36^^  qui 
donne  sama  aramne.  Le  ])  de  la  forme  sam.'p  note  simplement  I'explosion  labiale  qui  se 
produit  aprfes  que  la  resonance  nasale  de  I'm  a  cesse. 

678  B   b 


370  KUCHEAN   FEAGMENTS 

m'embrouille  pas !  Le  Bouddha  nyatit  entendu  blame  :  Moines !  quand  je  suis 
invito  a  manger  dans  les  families,  et  que  la-dessus  une  religieuse  reste  [1.  6]  a  donner 
des  ordres ;  Ici  une  portion  de  riz  !  iei  une  portion  de  bouillie !  iei  une  portion  de 
condiments !    les  moines  ainsi  .  .  .  [le  tcxte  s'arrete  ici.] 

LES   PARALLilLES. 

Le  Vinaya  pali  a  aussi,  pour  le  pacittiya  corrcvspondant,  le  89*  de  la  s6rie,  un 
double  recit  assez  different : 

Pdcittii/a  89.  En  ce  temps-l^  le  Bouddha  Bhagavat  est  a  Savatthi  dans  le 
Jetavana,  le  jardin  d'Anathapindika.  Or  en  ce  temps-la  Bhagavat  a  permis  un 
nisidana  aux  moines.  Les  moines  de  la  Sixaine,  disant  que  Bhagavat  a  autorise 
le  nisidana,  portent  des  nisidanas  demesures ;  ils  pendent  en  avant  et  en  arriere  des 
bancs  et  des  supports.  Les  moines  qui  ont  peu  de  desirs  grognent,  protestent, 
s'indignent :  Comment  les  moines  de  la  Sixaine  porteront-ils  des  nisidanas  demesures  ? 
Et  alors  ces  moines  communiquerent  cette  affaire  a  Bhagavat.  Et  alors  Bhagavat 
sur  cette  affaire,  sur  cette  question,  reunit  I'assemblee  des  moines  et  il  interrogea  les 
moines  de  la  Sixaine :  Est-il  vrai,  moines,  que  vous  portez  des  nisidanas  demesures  ? 
C'est  vrai,  Bhagavat !  Lo  Bouddha  les  blame  :  Comment  done,  6  fous !  porterez- 
vous  des  nisidanas  demesures  ?  Voila  qui  n'est  pas,  6  fous  !  pour  donner  la  foi  aux 
incredules  ni  pour  augmenter  la  foi  des  fideles.  Et  maintenant,  6  moines !  voici 
comment  vous  devrez  reciter  cette  prescription  :  '  Si  un  moine  se  fait  faire  un  nisidana, 
il  faut  le  faire  k  la  mesure.  LS,-dessus,  la  mesure  est  en  longueur  deux  coudees,  en 
eoudees  du  Sugata,  en  largeur  une  et  demie.  Qui  depasse  cela,  il  y  a  pacittiya  de 
coupure  (chedanakd)!  Et  c'est  ainsi  que  cette  prescription  est  proclamee  aux  moines 
par  Bhagavat. 

Or  en  ce  temps-lu  I'lij'asma  Udayi  a  le  corps  grand.  En  presence  de  Bhagavat, 
etalant  le  nisidana,  il  s'asseoit  tout  recroqueville.  Et  alors  Bhagavat  dit  a  I'ayasma 
Udayi:  Pourquoi  done,  Udayi,  es-tu  tout  recroqueville  sur  ton  nisidana?  C'est 
que  Bhagavat  a  permis  aux  moines  un  nisidana  tres  petit.  Et  alors  Bhagavat 
a  cette  occasion,  sur  cette  question,  fit  un  ciitretien  sur  la  Loi,  et,  s'adrcssant  aux 
moines :  Je  jjermets,  6  moines,  une  frange  d'une  coudee  au  nisidana.  Et  maintenant, 
o  moines,  voici  comment  vous  devez  reciter  la  prescription :  '  Si  un  moine  se  fait 
faire  un  nisidana,  il  faut  le  faire  ^  la  mesuic.  L&,-dessus,  la  mesure  est  on  longueur 
deux  coudees,  en  coudees  du  Sugata ;  en  largeur  une  et  demie  ;  la  frange,  une  coudee. 
Qui  dipasse  cela,  il  y  a  pacittiya  de  coupure  [cJiedanaka]! 


Pour  les  prescriptions  suivantes  et  les  r6cits  qui  les  accompagnent,  j'observerai 
I'ordre  suivant :  d'abord  le  Sarvastivadi-vinaya  (version  chinoise) ;  puis^,  comme 
terme  de  comparaison,  le  pali. 


PEAYASCITTIKA  ET  PKATIDE^ANlYA  371 

Sv.  V. — Fo-ye-t'l  90.  Le  Bouddha  residait  a  Kia-wei-lo-wei  (=  Kapilavastu). 
En  ce  temps-la,  I'ayusmat  Nan-fo,  le  frere  cadet  du  Bouddha,  qu'une  soeur  de  sa 
mere  avait  enfant^,  avait  le  corps  tout  pareil  au  Bouddha,  avec  trente  marques 
(lahana)  et  quatre  doigts  de  taille  en  moins  que  le  Bouddha.  Alors  Nan-to  se  fit 
un  vetement  de  la  meme  mesure  que  celui  du  Bouddha.  Quand  les  bhiksus  se 
trouvaient  reunis  soit  a  I'heure  du  repas,  soit  apres-midi,  s'ils  voyaient  de  loin 
Nan-t'o  venir,  ils  se  levaient  tous  pour  aller  au-devant  de  lui :  '  Voici  notre  grand 
chef  qui  vient ! '  Une  fois  rapproches,  ils  s'apercevaient  que  ce  n'etait  pas  lui.  Les 
sthaviras  tout  confus  pensaient  alors :  '  II  est  notre  inferieur :  pourquoi  done  nous 
lever  et  aller  au-devant  de  lui  ? '  Et  Nan-t'o  tout  confus  pensait :  '  J'ai  done  fait 
que  les  sthaviras  se  levent  et  viennent  au-devant  de  moi ! '  Les  bhiksus  pour  cette 
affaire  allerent  trouver  le  Bouddha  et  lui  firent  rapport  tout  au  long.  Le  Bouddha 
pour  cette  affaire  reunit  le  samgha  des  bhiksus,  et  lui  qui  savait  la  cause  il 
interrogea  Nan-t'o  :  '  As-tu  veritablement  fait  cette  chose  ou  non  ?  '  II  repondit : 
'  C'est  vrai,  Bhagavat ;  je  I'ai  faite.'  Le  Bouddha  le  blama  pour  toutes  sortes  de 
raisons :  '  Que  signifie  qu'un  bhiksu  se  fait  un  vetement  de  la  meme  mesure  que 
le  vetement  du  Bouddha  ?  A  partir  d'aujourd'hui  il  faut  raccourcir  ton  vetement ; 
ce  kasaya,  il  faut  I'etaler  et  I'arroser  d'eau.  Bhiksus  !  etalez  et  arrosez  le  vetement 
de  Nan-t'o.  Et  si  quelque  homme  fait  comme  lui,  vous  devrez  agir  de  meme.'  Et 
il  dit  aux  bhiksus :  '  Pour  dix  avantages  je  donne  aux  bhiksus  iiue  prescription. 
A  partir  d'aujourd'hui,  il  faut  reciter  ainsi  cette  prescription :  Si  un  bhiksu  se  fait 
un  vetement  de  la  meme  mesure  que  le  vetement  du  Bouddha  ou  de  mesure  plus 
grande,  il  est  po-ye-t'i.'  La  mesure  du  vetement  du  Bouddha,  c'est  en  longueur 
9  empans,  eu  largeur  6  empans.     C'est  la  mesure  du  vetement  du  Bouddha. 

Pdcitti/ja  92. — En  ce  temps  le  Bouddha  Bhagavat  est  a  Savatthi,  dans  le 
Jetavana,  le  jardin  d'Anathapindika.  Or  en  ce  temps  I'ayasma  Nanda,  fils  d'une 
sceur  de  la  mere  de  Bhagavat,  est  beau,  remarquable,  seduisant,  il  a  quatre  doigts 
de  taille  de  moins  que  Bhagavat.  II  porte  une  robe  de  la  meme  mesure  que  la  robe 
du  Sugata.  Les  Anciens,  les  Religieux  virent  de  bien  loin  Nanda  I'ayasma  qui 
arrivait ;  I'ayant  vu  :  '  Bhagavat  arrive ! '  se  disent-ils,  et  ils  se  levent  de  leur  siege. 
Arrives  a  proximite,  ils  le  reconnaissent ;  ils  grognent,  ils  protestent,  ils  s'indiguent : 
'  Comment  done  ?  I'ayasma  Nanda  portera  une  robe  de  la  meme  mesure  que  la  robe 
du  Sugata  ? '  lis  rapporterent  la  chose  a  Bhagavat.  Alors  Bhagavat  interrogea 
I'ayasma  Nanda:  '  Est-ee  vrai,  Nanda,  que  tu  portes  une  robe  de  la  meme  mesure 
que  la  robe  du  Sugata  ?  '  — '  C'est  vrai,  Bhagavat.'  Le  Bouddha  Bhagavat  le 
blama :  '  Comment  done  ?  Toi,  Nanda,  tu  porteras  une  robe  de  la  mesure  de  la 
robe  du  Sugata  ?  Voil^  qui  n'est  pas  fait  pour  donner  la  foi  aux  incredules,  ni  pour 
augmenter  la  foi  des  fidMes.  Ainsi  done,  6  Religieux,  recitez  cette  prescription  :  Si 
un  religieux  fait  faire  une  robe  de  la  meme  mesure  que  la  robe  du  Sugata,  ou  plus 

Bb2 


372  KUCHEAN   FEAGMENTS 

grande,  il  y  a  pdciUiya  de  eoupure  [chedanaha).  A  ce  sujet,  voici  la  mesure  de  la 
robe  du  Sugata :  en  longueur,  9  coudees  —  des  coudees  du  Sugata  ;  —  en  largeur, 
6  coudees.     Telle  est  la  mesure  de  la  robe  du  Sugata.' 


La  formule  qui  conclut  les  90  pdyti  et  celle  qui  introduit  les  4  pech.es  suivants 
ne  se  trouvent  pas  dans  la  version  chinoise  du  Sarvastivadi-vinaya ;  elles  sont 
donnees  dans  le  Pratimoksa  de  cette  ecole  traduit  par  Kumarajiva  [Sv.  P.]. 
Le  Sutta-vibhanga  a  incorpor6,  comme  le  koutcheen,  ces  formules  dans  son  texte. 

Sv.  Pk.  —  Hommes  de  grande  vertu  (=  hJiadanta)  !  j'ai  dit  completement  les 
90  lois  po-T/e-t'i.  Maintenant  je  demande  aux  hommes  de  grande  vertu :  En  ceci 
etes-vous  purs  ou  non  ?  Une  seconde  fois,  une  troisi^me  fois  meme  question.  Les 
hommes  de  grande  vertu  sont  purs  en  ceci,  puisqu'ils  gardent  le  silence.  Cette 
chose,  c'est  ainsi  que  je  la  tiens.  Hommes  de  grande  vertu !  Voici  les  quatre  lois 
pa-lo-t'i-t' i-che-ni  qui,  demi-mois  par  demi-mois,  sont  dites  dans  le  Po-lo-f  i-mo-tch' a. 

P.  —  On  a  enonce,  6  ayasmas !  les  quatre-vingt-douze  lois  pdcittiya,.  La  je 
demande  aux  ayasmas:  Est-ce  qu'en  cela  vous  etes  purs?  Une  seconde  fois 
je  demande :  Est-ce  qu'en  cela  vous  etes  purs  ?  Et  une  troisieme  fois  je  demande  : 
Est-ce  qu'en  cela  vous  etes  purs  ?  Les  fiyasmas  sont  purs  en  cela ;  done  ils  se 
taisent.  C'est  ainsi  que  je  le  tiens.  Or  voici  maintenant  les  quatre  lois  pdtidesaniya 
qui  arrivent  en  recitation. 

Sv.  V. — TraiideJamya  1.  Le  Bouddha  est  ^  G^e-wa  (Sravasti).  C'etait  une 
p^riode  de  famine  et  de  parcimonie.  La  bhiksuni  Hoa-che  (Couleur  de  fleur  = 
Utpalavarna),  en  raison  de  son  m^rite,  a  beaucoup  de  connaissances,  beaueoup  de 
relations  ;  elle  pent  obtenir  en  abondance  vetements,  nourriture,  literie,  remedes, 
qui  sont  des  necessites.  Cette  bhiksuni  de  tres  bonne  heure  se  leve,  passe  sa  veture, 
prend  son  vase,  entre  dans  la  ville  de  Che-wei  pour  mendier  sa  nourriture.  Alors 
elle  voit  la  foule  des  bhiksus  qui  dans  Che-wei  mendient  leur  nourriture  sans  en 
obtenir,  elle  en  souffre  et  n'est  pas  heureuse.  Et  cette  bhiksuni,  si  elle  voit  que 
dans  le  vase  des  bhiksus  il  manque  un  peu,  leur  donne  un  peu ;  s'il  y  manque  la 
moitie,  elle  donne  une  moitie  ;  s'il  manque  tout,  elle  donne  tout.  Le  premier  jour, 
la  bhiksuni  epuisa  tout  ce  qu'elle  avait  re9u  de  nourriture  mendiee  en  le  donnant 
aux  bhiksus.  De  meme  le  second  jonr,  le  troisieme  jour.  Comme  elle  ne  prenait 
pas  de  nourriture,  dans  la  rue  elle  perdit  connaissance  et  tomba  par  terre.  Un 
marchand  qui  I'avait  vue  appela  sa  femme  et  lui  dit :  La  bhiksuni  Iloa-cJie  est  tombee 
par  terre  dans  la  rue.  Va  la  relever  et  amene-la.  Elle  alia  la  relever  et  la  conduisit 
dans  sa  maison.  Vite  on  lui  fit  une  bouillie  qu'on  lui  donna,  et  alors  elle  reprit  ses 
sens.  On  lui  demanda :  De  quoi  souffrez-vous  ?  Quelle  maladie  vous  tourmente 
que  vous  etes  tombee  par  terre  dans  la  rue  ?     La  bhiksuni  dit :  Je  n'ai  ni  maladie  ni 


PKlYA^CITTIKA  ET  PRATIDE^ANlYA  373 

douleur  ni  peine.  Cast  parce  que  je  n'avais  pas  pris  de  nourriture  que  j'ai  perdu 
connaissance  et  que  je  suis  tombee  par  terre  dans  la  rue.  On  lui  demanda :  Vous 
avez  done  mendie  de  la  nourriture  sans  en  obtenir  ?  EUe  repondit :  J'ai  mendie  de 
la  nourriture  et  j'en  ai  re9u.  Mais  comme  la  foule  mendiait  de  la  nourriture  dans 
Clie-viei  sans  en  obtenir,  j'en  ai  soufFert  et  je  n'etais  point  heureuse.  Quand  je 
voyais  que  dans  le  vase  des  bbiksus  il  en  manquait  un  peu,  je  leur  en  donnais  un 
peu  ;  s'il  y  manquait  la  moitie,  je  donnais  la  moitie  ;  s'il  manquait  tout,  je  donnais 
tout.  Et  de  meme  le  second  jour  et  le  troisieme  jour.  Comme  je  ne  prenais  pas  de 
nourriture,  j'ai  perdu  connaissance  et  je  suis  tombee  par  terre  dans  la  rue.  Les 
maitres  de  maison  ayant  entendu  cette  affaire  ne  furent  pas  heureux  dans  leur  cceur 
Et  ils  blamerent  ainsi :  Ces  cha-men  (sramana)  fils  de  Che  (sakya)  !  ils  ne  connaissent 
ni  temps  ni  mesure.  Si  celui  qui  donne  ne  sait  pas  la  mesure,  il  faut  que  celui  qui 
rejoit  sache  la  mesure.  Cette  bhiksuni  Hoa-che  a  failli  mourir  faute  de  nourriture. 
La-dessus  il  y  eut  des  bbiksus  de  peu  de  desirs,  sacbant  ce  qui  suffit,  pratiquant  les 
t'eou-t'o  (dbuta),  qui  entendant  cette  affaire  ne  furent  pas  heureux  dans  leui-  cceur ; 
ils  allerent  vers  le  Bouddba  et  lui  firent  rapport  tout  au  long'.  Le  Bouddba  pour 
cette  affaire  reunit  I'assemblee  des  bbiksus ;  pour  toutes  sortes  de  raisons  il  blama 
les  bbiksus :  Que  signifie  un  bbiksu  qui  ne  connait  ni  la  mesure  ni  le  temps  ?  Si 
celui  qui  donne  ne  connait  pas  la  mesure,  il  faut  que  celui  qui  regoit  connaisse  la 
mesure.  Cette  bbiksuni  Hoa-che  a  failli  mourir  faute  de  nourriture.  Ayant  blame 
pour  toutes  sortes  de  causes  les  bbiksus,  il  leur  dit :  Pour  dix  avantages  je  donne 
aux  bbiksus  une  prescription.  A  partir  d'aujourd'bui  il  faut  reciter  ainsi  cette 
prescription :  '  Si  un  bbiksu  qui  n'est  pas  malade  entre  dans  un  village,  et  que  de  la 
main  d'une  bhiksuni  qui  n'est  pas  sa  parente  il  re9oit  de  la  noui'riture,  ce  bbiksu  doit 
s'adresser  aux  autres  bbiksus  pour  leur  dire  son  pecbe :  Venerables,  je  suis  tomb6 
dans  une  loi  reprehensible  et  deplac^e.  Cette  loi  est  regrettable.  Maintenant  je 
declare  publiquement  que  je  regrette  ma  faute.  C'est  ce  qu'on  appelle  une  loi 
jio-lo-t'i-fi-cfie-ni.' 

P.  —  Pdtid.  1.  En  ce  temps-la  le  Bouddba  Bhagavat  est  a  Savatthi  dans  le 
Jetavana,  le  jardin  d'Anathapindika.  Or  en  ce  temps-la  une  des  religieuses  ayant 
fait  sa  tourn^e  d'aumones  a  Savatthi,  au  moment  de  s'en  retournef  apereevant  un 
des  moines  lui  dit;  He,  seigneur!  aceepte  I'aumone!  —  Bien,  ma  sceur,  dit-il, 
et  elle  lui  remit  tout.  II  ne  lui  restait  plus  assez  de  temps  pour  faii-e  une  tournee 
■d'aumones,  et  elle  resta  sans  manger.  Ainsi  le  deuxieme  jour  .  .  .  le  troisieme 
jour,  ayant  fait  sa  tournee  d'aumones  a  Savatthi,  au  moment  de  s'en  retourner 
apereevant  un  des  moines  elle  lui  dit :  He  .  .  .  et  elle  resta  sans  manger.  Or, 
cette  religieuse  le  quatrieme  jour  va  frissonnante  dans  la  rue.  Un  seth,  maitre 
de  maison,  qui  arrivait  en  voiture  dans  le  sens  inverse  dit  a  cette  religieuse :  Ecarte- 
toi,  madame !    En  se  retirant,  elle  tomba  sur  la  place  meme.     Le  seth,  maitre  de 


374  KUCHEAN   FRAGMENTS 

maison,  fit  ses  excuses  a  la  religiense  :  Excuse-moi,  madame  ;  c'est  moi  qui  t'ai  fait 
tomber.  —  Non,  maitre  de  maison,  ce  n'est  pas  toi  qui  m'as  fait  tomber  ;  mais  c'est 
que  je  suis  bien  faible. — Pourquoi  doBC,  madame,  es-tu  si  faible  ?  Alors  la  religieuse 
raconta  I'aifaire  au  setb,  maitre  de  maison.  Le  seth,  maitre  de  maison,  conduisit  la 
religiense  dans  sa  demeure,  Ini  donna  k  manger  ;  il  grogne,  il  proteste,  il  s'indigne  : 
Comment  done  !  les  bhadantas  accepteront  la  nourriture  de  la  main  d'une  religieuse  ! 
Les  femmes  ont  grand'peine  &  obtenir !  Les  moines  entendirent  ce  seth,  maitre  de 
maison,  qui  .  .  .  s'indignait.  Les  moines  qui  ont  peu  de  desirs  .  .  .  s'indignent : 
Comment  done  ?  un  moine  recevra  la  nourriture  de  la  main  d'une  religieuse  .  .  . 
etc.  .  .  .  Est-ce  vrai,  moine,  que  tu  re^ois  la  nourriture  de  la  main  d'une  reli- 
gieuse ? —  C'est  vrai,  Bhagavat!  —  Est-elle  ta  parente,  moine,  ou  etrangfere  ?  — 
fitrangere,  Bhagavat.  —  Etranger  et  etrangere,  6  fou,  on  ne  sait  pas  ce  qui  convient, 
ce  qui  ne  va  pas,  ce  qui  est  bien,  ce  qui  n'est  pas  bien.  Comment  done,  6  fou, 
recevras-tu  la  nourriture  de  la  main  d'une  religieuse  etrangere  ?  Voil^  qui  n'est 
pas,  6  fou,  pour  donner  la  foi  aux  incr6dules  .  .  .  etc.  Et  voiei  comment  vous  devez 
reciter  cette  prescription  :  '  Si  un  moine,  de  la  main  d'une  religieuse  etrangere  qui  est 
entree  dans  I'interieur  de  la  maison,  accepte  en  sa  propre  main  k  croquer  ou  k  avaler, 
et  qu'il  le  croque  ou  I'avale,  ce  moine  doit  le  declarer  :  Venerables,  je  suis  tombe 
dans  une  loi  reprehensible,  deshonnete  ;  je  le  confesse.' 

Le  recit  du  Dharmagupta-vinaya  est,  comme  toujours,  6troitement  rapproche  du 
pali,  mais  la  religieuse  qui  motive  la  prescription  est,  comme  chez  les  Sarvastivadins, 
Utpalavarna. 

Sv.  V.  —  Pratid.  2.  Le  Bouddha  est  k  Wang-clie  (Bajagrha).  En  ce  temps-1^ 
il  y  a  un  maitre  de  maison  qui  invite  le  Bouddha  et  le  clerge  des  deux  sexes  pour  le 
lendemain  k  dejeuner.  Le  Bouddha  accepte  par  le  silence.  Le  maitre  de  maison 
sait  que  le  Bouddha  a  accepts  par  son  silence  ;  il  salue  de  la  tete  les  pieds  du 
Bouddha,  tourne  k  droite  autour  de  lui  et  se  retire.  Eentre  chez  lui,  il  prepare 
toutes  sortes  de  mets  excellents.  Au  matin  il  installe  des  sieges,  envoie  un  messager 
informer  le  Bouddha  que  le  moment  est  venu,  que  le  repas  est  pret.  Le  Bouddha 
connait  par  lui-meme  le  temps.  Le  Bouddha  et  le  clerge  des  deux  sexes  entrent 
dans  la  maison  du  maitre  de  maison  et  ils  s'asseoient.  Le  maitre  de  maison,  voyant 
que  le  Bouddha  et  le  clerge  sont  assis,  de  sa  propre  main  fait  circuler  I'eau  pour 
annoncer  le  moment  du  repas.  Et  alors  une  bhiksuni  du  groupe  de  Tiao-ta  (Deva- 
datta),  en  faveur  des  bhiksus  de  la  Sixaine,  se  mit  a  donner  des  ordres  au  fan-yiie 
(danapati) :  Celui-ci  est  le  premier  sthavira ;  celui-la  est  le  second  sthavira  ;  celui-ci 
tient  les  rfegles  (vinayadhara) ;  celui-ci  est  un  maitre  de  la  Loi ;  donne  k  ce  bhiksu 
du  riz ;  donne  k  ce  bhiksu  de  la  soupe.  Les  maitres  de  maison  disent :  Nous  ne 
savons  pas  qui  est  premier  sthavira,  qui  est  second  sthavira,  qui  tient  les  regies,  qui 


PEAYASCITTIKA  ET  PEATIDE^ANlYA  376 

est  maitre  de  la  Loi.  II  y  a  iei  beaucoup  de  riz  a  manger,  assez  pour  en  donner 
k  tons.  Qu'on  ne  nous  embrouille  pas  avec  des  paroles.  Si  on  nous  donne  des  ordres 
confus :  aliens,  toi,  de  tes  propres  mains  fais  circuler  les  plats,  —  alors  nous  nous 
arreterons.  Le  Bouddha  reconnut  que  la  bhiksuni  embrouillait  tout,  et  il  entendit 
les  maitres  de  maison  qui  blamaient.  Apr^s  le  repas,  pour  cette  affaire,  il  reunit 
Tassemblge  des  bhiksus;  pour  toutes  sortes  de  raisons,  il  blama  les  bhiksus  de  la 
Sixaine:  Que  signifie,  quand  les  bhiksus  mangent,  qu'une  bhiksuni  ordonne  de 
donner  k  manger  ?  Ayant  blame  pour  toutes  sortes  de  raisons,  il  difc  aux  bhiksus  : 
Pour  dix  avantageSj  je  donne  aux  bhiksus  une  prescription.  A  partir  d'aujonrd'hui, 
il  faut  reciter  ainsi  cette  prescription  :  '  S'il  arrive,  6  bhiksus,  qu'un  maitre  de  maison 
invite  k  manger  chez  lui,  et  qu^alors  une  bhiksuni,  montrant  du  doigt,  ordonne : 
Donne  k  ee  bhiksu  du  riz  ;  donne  k  ce  bhiksu  de  la  soupe,  alors  les  bhiksus  doivent 
dire  a  cette  bhiksuni:  Attends  un  peu  que  les  bhiksus  aient  fini  de  manger.  Si 
parmi  les  bhiksus  il  n'y  en  a  pas  un  pour  dire  h,  cette  bhiksuni :  Attends  un  peu  que 
les  bhiksus  aient  fini  de  manger,  alors  tons  ces  bhiksus  doivent  s'adresser  au 
reste  des  bhiksus  et  leur  dire :  Ven^rables !  nous  sommes  tombes  dans  une  loi 
reprehensible  et  d^placee.  Cette  loi  est  regrettable.  Maintenant  je  declare  publique- 
ment  que  je  regrette  ma  faiite.     C'est  ce  qu'on  appelle  une  loi  po-lo-f  i-i'i-c/ie-ni.' 

P.  —  Patid.  2.  En  ce  temps-1^  le  Bouddha  Bhagavat  est  k  Rajagaha  au 
Veluvana,  dans  le  Kalandaka  nivapa.  Or  en  ce  temps-la  les  moines  sont  invites 
dans  les  families,  et  y  mangent.  Les  religieuses  de  la  Sixaine  sont  Ik  qui  donnent 
des  ordres  pour  les  moines  de  la  Sixaine :  Donnez  iei  de  la  soupe  ;  donnez  ici  de  la 
bouillie.  Les  moines  de  la  Sixaine  mangent  autant  qu'ils  veulent ;  les  autres  moines 
ne  mangent  absolument  rien.  Les  moines  qui  ont  peu  de  d^sirs  .  .  .  s'indignent: 
Comment  done !  ces  moines  de  la  Sixaine  ne  remettront  pas  a  leur  place  les 
religieuses  qui  donnent  des  ordres  .  .  .  etc.  .  .  .  Est-il  vrai,  moines,  que  vous  ne 
remettez  pas  k  leur  place  les  religieuses  qui  donnent  des  ordres  ?  — ■  C'est  vrai, 
Bhagavat.  —  Le  Bouddha  Bhagavat  les  blama :  Comment  done,  fous,  vous  ne 
remettez  pas  a  leur  place  .  .  .  Voiljl  qui  n'est  pas  fait  pour  donner  la  foi  .  .  .  Et 
voici  comment  vous  devrez  reciter  cette  prescription :  '  Les  moines  sont  invites  dans 
les  families  et  y  mangent.  Alors  si  une  religieuse  reste  1^  avec  des  airs  de  com- 
mander :  Donnez  ici  de  la  soupe ;  donnez  ici  de  la  bouillie ;  —  ces  moines  doivent 
ecarter  cette  religieuse  en  lui  disant:  Reste  k  I'ecart,  soeur,  tant  que  les  moines 
mano-ent.  S'il  ne  vient  pas  k  Yidie  d'un  seul  moine  d'ecarter  cette  religieuse  en 
lui  disant:  Reste  k  I'^cart  ...  les  moines  mangent,  alors  ces  moines  doivent 
declarer:  O  venerables, nous  sommes  tombes  dans  une  loi  reprehensible, deshonnete ; 
nous  le  confessons.' 

Le  Dharmagupta-vinaya  donne,  comnie  d'ordinaire,  un  recit  presque  identi- 
Que  k  celui  du  pali.   Mais  le  lieu  de  la  sc6ne  est  k  Sravasti,  comme  dans  le  koutcheen, 


376  KUCHEAN   FRAGMENTS 

tandis  que  le  Sarvastivadi-Yinaya  et  le  pali  plaeent  tous  les  deux  la  scene  a  Rajagrlia. 
Le  koutcheen  seul  designe  nommement  Sthulananda  comme  la  religieuse  coupable. 

En  somme,  le  koutcheen  presente  dans  tous  les  cas  une  redaction  originale, 
abregee  et  allegee,  du  Vinaya  des  Sarvastivadins.  fividemment  le  bouddhisme  avait 
atteint  une  vie  propre  et  une  culture  propre  dans  la  region  du  parler  koutcheen. 


3.  PEATIDESANIYA. 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  149,  Add.  33. 

Un  petit  fragment,  cote  149,  Add.  33,  donne  quelques  restes  d'une  redaction  du 
1''  et  du  2®  pratidesaniya  tres  voisine,  mais  legerement  difF6rente.  Elle  sert  tout 
au  moins  a  completer  quelques  lectures. 

Recto. 

1  ssxente  sa,,ga  ma  lipitar  ne  "^  e|| 

2  lleka  ksa  karyorttau  lyakate  istavkj 

3  masaiie  ce^u  ostassi  naksante  ne^^ 

4  se  samane  (a)lasmo  enerika 

Verso. 

1  x[pa]iiakte  Dravast[i]xx  maskita^r  •^  tanaj 

2  sama  araitine  ste  cwi^m  naU\|  pete  "^  J 

3  tarjapate  krasiyate  ot  wena  te^^J 

4  xa^r  samani  ostwaiwenta  ne  ^watsi| 

Note  additionnelle. — Pendant  que  ce  texte  etait  en  cours  d'impression,  le  texte 
Sanscrit  du  Pratimoksa  des  Sarvastivadins  a  ete  public  par  M.  Finot  dans  le  Journal 
Asiatique,  1913,  II.  465-557. 


VOCABULARY   TO    KUCHEAN    FRAGMENTS 


abhidharm,     transcription     du     Sanscrit 

ahhidharma.     Fr.  1 ,  a^^. 
abhidharmike,      emprunte     au     Sanscrit 

dbhidharmika,    tenant    de    I'abhidliarma. 

Fr.  2,  109  U^. 
agamadhari,  nomin.  plur.  de  aganiadhare, 

emprunte  au   Sanscrit  agamadhara,  qui 

possfede  les  agamas.     Fr.  2,  109  U". 
aissi,    3e  pers.  sing,  frequent,  de  ai,  ay°, 

donner.     Fr.  1,  109  a*''. 
aiykemane,    partic.   moyen    de    ais,    aik, 

savoir.     Fr.  1,  a"'. 
aknatsams,  cas  oblique  plur.  de  aknatse, 

ignorant;    [d'ou    le    derive    ahnatsamne, 

ignorance  (=  ajiiana)].     Fr.  1,  «!". 
[Compose  d.'an-,  negatif,  qui  a  perdu 

son  n  devant  kn,  et  de  kna- ;   cf.  v.  h.  a. 

kndn,  lat.   {g)ndsco,  etc. ;    sur    A.  kndn- 

{puk   kndnmdm    '  sarvavidvan '),   v.    SS. 

931.] 
aksalne,  recitation,  enonciation  {^:z.uddeia). 

Fr.  2,  109  a"  {°ne,  loc.). 

[Cf.  peut-etre  lat.  aio,  ad-agium  et  les 

mots  apparent6s,  notamment  arm.  asem, 

je  dis,  af-ac  'maxime  '.] 
aksaskau,    1'^^   pers.    sing.   pres.   de   aks, 

reciter,  enoncer  (=  deS°).     Fr.  2,  109  6". 
[v.  aksalne.^ 
aksassalle,  part,  futur  passif  de  aks,  aks, 

reciter, 6noncer{=de^aniya).  Fr.2, 109  a', 

109  b^. 

aksafolle,  id.     Fr.  2,  109  6^. 

aksasfolye,  id.     Fr.  2,  109  6", 
alasmo,    malade   (^  pali   gildna).     Fr.  2, 

109  a^i;  Fr.  3,  ai\ 

[Cf.  aldskemane  '  etant  malade  ',  Journ. 

As.,  1911,  ii.  121,  et  MSL.  xviii.  18.] 


aletsai,  Stranger,  alienus.     Forme  oblique 
feminine  de  alecce.     Fr.  2,  109  a^'. 
[v.  alijeka.\ 
alyeka  {\a\lleka,  Fr.  3,  a"),  autre  [anya). 
Fr.  2,  lOSfjiv. 

[v.  Journ.  As.,  1911,  ii.  149.] 
amplakante,     participe,     precede    de    la 
particule    negative     an-,  de    j)lak,    de- 
mander,    convenir.      Cf.    plciki    (=  pali 
andpucchd).     Fr.  1 ,  6i- ". 
[v.  pldkij] 
andha(ee),   emprunte   au  Sanscrit   andha, 

n.  pr.     Fr.  2,  108  ai". 
anm,  ame,  esprit.     Fr.  1 ,  6'^"  {-sa  instrum.) 
[Cf.   lat.    animus,   anima,    etc.,   et    v. 
onolme.'\ 
annapi,  tous  les  deux  (=  ubhaya).     Fr.  2, 

108  a". 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  286.] 
aramne  et  aranfle  (=  dranyaka).    Fr.  2, 

109  6iiiet  Fr.  3,  6". 

artsa,  absolutif  de  ars,  finir  (=  anu°),  a  la 

fin  de.     Fr.  2,  109  a". 
asiya,  religieuse(=  6/«tent).    Fr.  2, 109  6'*', 

109  a'ii  (°«se). 

aiiyai,  forme  oblique.     Fr.  2,  109  a^'i. 

aiiyana,  cas  regime  plur.  Fr.  2,  109  Ji". 
ayasse,  d'os  (=  asthimaya),  adj.  derive,  au 

moyen  de  I'affixe  °sse,  du  mot  ayd{s),  os. 

Fr.  l,b". 
ayato,    convenable    (^  pali   °sa2)pd,ya)   ou 

agreable  (=  Sanscrit  °sampreya).     Fr.  2, 

109  Ji. 

C 

cai,  cas  sujet  plur.  de  ce,  ceux-ci.     Fr.  2, 

109  a\ 
cairn,  id.  de  ce,  demonstratif.    Fr.  2,  109  fei'^. 
[v.  M8L.  xviii.  414.] 


'  Les  remarques  ^tymologiques,  enfermfes  entre  crochets,  sont  dues  ;i  M.  Meillet.      Fi-.  =  fragment. 


378 


VOCABULARY   TO 


ce,  adj.  demonstr.  celui-ci.     Fr.  2,  108  6''"^-^, 

109  6«. 

[cf.  scr.  tya-  ?] 
ce^u,    ce;    cas    regime  du    demoiistratif  ce 

(=  tad).    Fr.    2,    108  a>.    (ceu  wdttare), 

nomiu.  sing.     Fr.  2,   109&i;'Fr.  3,  ctiii. 

[ceu   .   .   .  ahsasalle),    aoc.    sing.    masc. 

Fr.  2,  109  6"!. 

cew  (=  ce^u).     Fr.  2,  109  6". 
cwim  (=  cwi),  cas  regime  du  demonstratif, 

+  TO.  V.     MSL.    xviii.    416    sq.     Fr.  2, 

109  Jiii;  Fr.  3,5". 


E 

ecce,    adverbe,    correspondant    au    prefixe 
Sanscrit  a.     Fr.  2,  109  a"  {^katmaskem). 
[Cf.  scr.  ail  ou  lat.  acZ.] 

enatke,  "foe.     Fr.  2,  108  a\ 

encitr,    3^   pers.   sing.  pres.   subj.   de   enc, 
enk,  prendre  (=2>''a%r''°)-    Fr.  2,  109  6\ 
[Cf.    gr.    cveyK€tv,    etc. ;    v.    enenka    et 
ehsanta!\ 

enenka,  excepte.  Postposition  qui  semble 
bien  s'analyser  en  en  (=  a  privatif)  et 
efika,  absolutif  de  erik,  prendre  (litter*.  = 
non  compris).     Fr.  2,  109  a^i;  Fr.  3,  oi^. 

ensanta.  Fr.  2,  109  ai^  (°rae).  Participe 
present  de  enkdskau,  rac.  enk,  au 
feminin  ?  ou  3°  pers.  plnr.  m^dio-passive 
de  ce  verbe?  cf.  MSL.  xviii.  15. 

ersate,  3^  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  er-s,  soulever. 
Fr.  2,  109a^(°Me). 

[Cf.  gr.  opvvfjLai,  6povu>,  arm.  yariwm 
(imp.  ari),  etc. ;  I'e  initial  peut  representer 
0  ou  peut-etre  a ;  I'element  -s  est  suffixal, 
V.  MSL.  xviii.  28.] 

esuwacca,  affamee ;  f^min.  de  I'adj.  esu- 
wacce,  forme  de  e{n)  privatif,  Suw,  manger 
+  suff.  cce.     Fr.  2,  109  a"-. 

[Sur  la  chute  de  n,  v.  MSL.  xviii.  24.] 


ikam,  vingt  (=:  vimiati).     Cf.  Ikampikwa- 

lamne. 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  290  et  suiv.] 
ikampikwalamne,  adj.  compost  forme,  au 

moyen  de  I'afRxe  nine  (:=  nhe),  de  ikath, 


Vuigi  +  pikwala,  annees,   plur.   de  pikul 

(=  vimiativarsa).     Fr.  1,  a*. 
ike,  point;  lieu  {=pcida).     Fr.  2,  109  5". 
ista[k],  aussitot;  ensuite.     Fr.  2,  109  a^; 

Fr.  3,  a". 

[Cf.  lat.  statim'f] 

K 

kakakas,     participe    k    redoublement    de 

kak,  inviter  {  =  nimantr°).     Fr.  2,  1096^. 
kakate,  3^  pers.  sing.  pr6s.  de  kdk,  inviter 

(=  nimantr°).     Fr.  2,  109  6™. 
(k)akauwa.     Fr.  2,  108  oi. 
kako,  invitation.    Subst.  tire  de  kak,  inviter 

(=  pravarana).     Fr.  1,  a". 
Ealodaye,    n.  pr.    emprunt6   au   Sanscrit 

Kalodayi.     Fr.  2,  108  aiii-i^. 
kalpassi,   3®  pers.  sing,  frequent,  de  kal2), 

obtenir  {  =  labh°).     Fr.  2,  109  a™. 
kaltr,  3^  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  kal,  se  tenir, 

s'arrlter  {=sthd°).     Fr.  1,  a^'^. 

[Cf.  kaldtsi,  '  tenir ',  qu'on  hesite  a  ai- 

parer    de  kail,  'avoir',  cf.    arm.    kalay, 

qui  sert  d'aoriste  a  unim,  'j'ai'.] 
kalymi,  bout  {=anta).     Fr.  2,  108  o". 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  294.] 
kamate,    3^  pers.    sing,    present  de   kam, 

prendre  {ado).     Fr.  2,  108  a"-™. 

[Cf.  hom.  yei/TO,  il  a  pris,  cypr.  aTroyeytie- 

a<f>eXK€  et  -uy-ye/ios'  trvWa^-ij,  Hes.  gr.  yay- 

ya/iov,    filet    (de    pgche),   o-y/xos,   javelle, 

yc/ACD,  etc.  ;  ombr.  gomia,  grauidas,  v.  si. 

5i??i^,  je  presse,  etc.] 
Kapilavastu,  n.  pr.  emprunt(f  au  Sanscrit 

{kajnlavastu).     Fr.  2,  108  6i  (°m«). 
karyorttau,  marchand  (=  vanij).     Fr.  2, 

109  av;  Fr.  3^  ^ii. 

[Cf.  scr.  krlndti,  il  achfete,  gr.  irpiacrOai, 
etc.] 
katko|,    partic.    pass6    de   kat-k,    tomber, 
passer  ( —preke  ■=  vikdle).     Fr.  1 ,  6". 
[Cf.  lat.  cado,  etc.] 
katmaskem,  3^  pers.  plur.  pres.  de  kat-m, 
arriver  (=  gam°).     Fr.  2,  109  a", 
[v.  kekatkau.~\ 
kaue,  en  haut.     Fr.  2,  109  a^. 
kaumsai,  journ^e,  derive  de  kaum,  jour. 
Fr.  2,  109  aiv. 


KUCHEAN  FRAGMENTS 


379 


kca   (cf.    ksa),  particule  d'indffini  {ahjeka 

kca=anyatama).  Fr.  2,  108  a". 
[v.  MSL.  xviii.  419.] 
kekatkau,    nomin.    sing.    masc.    du   part. 

parfait  de  kat-h,  arriver  a,  tomber  dans 

{=afad°).     Fr.  2,  109  6'. 
[Cf.  lat.  cado,  etc.] 
kektse[n],  corps  {=  kdya).    Fr.  2,  108  o^ 

{°ntsa). 
kem,  terre  {■=  jprthivl).     Ft.  1,  a";   Fr.  2, 

108  av. 

[Cf.  lit.  zPme,  V.  si.  zemlja,  gr.  ^ajxai,  av. 

s»m-,  et  gr.  x^'"'',  scr.  ksam-,  lat.  humus^ 

kenie||e,  de  corne  (=  visanamaya).     Adj. 

d6riv6    au   moyen   de   I'aff.   °sse,  du  mot 

kerne,  corne.     Fr.  1,  Tfi^. 

[Cf.  un  groupe  de  mots  qui  indiquent 
des  objets  courbes :   av.  kamard-,  ceiuture, 
gr.  Kajxapa,  voute,  lat.  camurus,  camerus ; 
lit.  kumpas,  courb6  ;  gr.  /ca/iTTTw  ;  etc.  f] 
keni,  genou  (=janu).     Fr.  2,  1 08  a"-'  {°sa). 
[Cf.  gr.  yow,  etc.    Var.  kenme  sa ;  meme 
forme  au  duel  e  issu  de  o.] 
kercye,   palais.      Fr.    1,  6"'  {°n  ne,  loc). 
[Cf.  got.  gards,  maison,  v.  angl.  geard, 
enclos,    V.    si.    gradu,    enclos,   ville,    scr. 
grhdh,  maison,  etc.] 
kesta,  faim,  famine  (=  durbhiksa).     Fr.  2, 

109  a?i  {°tse). 

[Cf.  la  racine  scr.  gJias-,  manger  f\ 
kikratsi,    infinitif    employ^    comme    sub- 
stantif.     Fr.  2,  108  a>  [repandre  ?]. 
[Cf.  gr.  Kepa.wvfji.1,  etc.  ?] 
klausa,  ouie,  portee  d'oreille  (^^ruti,  °^rava), 
derive  de  klyau{s),  entendre.     Fr.  1 ,  a^^. 
[v.  klyausam.~\ 
klautka,  absolut.  de  klaut-k,  tourner,  re- 
tourner.     Fr.  2,  109  a", 

[v.  kaklcm,  Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  460.] 
klaya,   3«  pers.  sing.  aor.  de  kl,  tourner, 
tournoyer,  se  trouver  mal.     Fr.  2,  109  a"", 
[Cf.  scr.  cdrati,  hom.  TrepLTeXXofj-evo^  et 
TrepiirXofievos,  v.  sl.  kolo,  etc. ;  v.  kaklau, 
Journ.  As.,   1911,  i.  460;  ou  plutot  cf. 
lit.  guliu,  gulti,  se  coucher,  guliu,  gulHi, 
Stre   coucli6,   gr.  /JixAAm,  et   surtout   scr. 
gldyati.~\ 
klu,    bouillie    de    riz    (=  odana).      Fr.    2, 
109  6^1 


[Cf.    lat.    cjlus  1,     et    ceci     appuierait 

rbypothfese  que  I'm  de  gins  est  un  ancien  «.] 

klyausa,    abi?ol.     de    klyau{s),    entendre. 

Fr.  2,  108  fti^  109  a"  5^'. 
klyausam,  3^  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  klyau{s), 
entendre.     Fr.  1, 6'^'. 

[v.   Journ.   As.,   1912,  i.   113;    et  cf. 
klausa.^ 
krasiyate,   3«  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  krasiy, 

s'irriter.     Fr.  2,  109  6"';  Fr.  3,  6™. 
kraupate,   3®  pers.   sing.   pres.   de  krawp, 

r^unir.     Fr.  2,  108  ai  6"'. 
krui,    si,   quand   {=  yadi,   yadd).      Fr.   2, 

108  Z/ii,  109  6^'. 
ksa  (cf.  kca),  un  quelconque.     Indefini  masc. 
Fr.  2,  109  av  5".     Fr.  3,  «", 
[v.  MSL.  xviii,  419.] 
kwasai,  village  (=  grama).     Fr.  1,  6"  {-ne, 
loc.). 

[Cf.  got.  gawi,  region,  ossete  yau, 
village,  arm.  gav;ar,csaAon;  surcesmdts, 
V.  Feist,  Etym.  Wtirt.  d.  got.  Spr.  (1909), 
s.  V.  gawi.~\ 

L 

lamalle,    verbal     de    lam,    s'asseoir ;     qui 

doit  s'asseoir.     Fr.  2,  108  a^'i  (°sa).    Var. 

laTiialye. 

[^Lam  est  a  analyser  en  ly  +  m ;  v.  inf. 

lyama  et  cf.  s.  v.  stmausa.l 
lamatsi,  infinitif  de  lam,  s'asseoir.     Fr.  2, 

lOSfliu. 
lante,  roi  (=  raja).     Fr.  1,  6"'. 
leswi.     Fr.  2,  109  a"'. 
lipitar,  3®  pers.  sing.  pr^s.  de  lip,  oindre. 

Fr.  3,  a\ 

[Cf.  scr.  lip,  etc.] 
lyakate,  3®  pers.  sing.  pr^s.  de  lyk,  voir. 

Fr.  2,  109  aV;  Fr.  3,  a". 

[v.  Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  462  et  suiv.] 
lyama,    3^    pers.    sing.    aor.  (?)    de    lam, 

s'asseoir.     Fr.  2,  1 08  a"'-  ■>'. 
[v.  sup.  lamalle.^ 
lyka,    plur.    de    lyak,    voleur    (=  caura). 

Fr.  1,  ai. 

M 

ma,  negation  (=  na,  an°).    Fr.  1,  ai-  i"  Jiv  ; 
Fr.  2,  108  a",  109  ¥■  "' ;  Fr.  3,  a\ 

[Generalisation,  unique    en  indo-euro- 


380 


VOCABULAKY   TO 


peen,  de  la  negation  prohibitive,  indo-iran. 
7nd,  gr.  firj,  arm.  mz.j 
maka,  beaucoup  (==  hahu).    Fr.  2,  109  a"i. 

[Cf.  gr.  /xeyas,  etc.] 
maksu,   pion.   et  adj.   indefini,   quiconque 

{yah  haicit),  nom.  sing.    Fr.  2,   108  &iv, 

109a''i. 

[La  seule  particule  k  laquelle  on  puisse 

penser  pour  rendre  compte  de  la  particule 

qui  precede  I'ind^fini  dans  ma-ksu,  ma-kte 

et  qui  se   retrouve  dans  masar,  et  sans 

doute    dans    mantraka,    est   gr.   jxiv,   fia, 

scr.  sma.    v.  MSL.  xviii.  419.] 
makte,  comme  (=  yatha).     Fr.  2,  109  a}. 
mala(?).     Fr.  1,6^. 
inamt°  (niant),   adverbs,  ainsi   (^  evam). 

Fr.  1,  ai". 
maucak,   emjorunte  au  Sanscrit  inancaka, 

banquette.     Fr.  1,6". 
mantraka,  ainsi  (=  evam).     Fr.  2,  109  6^'i. 
masa,    3^   pers.    sing,    aur.,    probablement 

meme  racine  que  le  verbe  mask  {  =  vihar°). 

Fr.  2,  108  a"i-". 
masar,  quiconque,  quand.     Fr.  2,  109  b^. 
maskitr,    3^    pers.    sing.    pits,    du    verbe 

mask,  etre.     Fr.   2,    108  a"^  (^  viharati). 

Fr.  2,  108  6",  109  a"-  "  6"  ;  Fr.  3,  b\ 
maskiyentr,    3e    pers.   plur.    pr^s.  (?)   du 

verbe  mask,  etre.     Fr.  2,  108  b^^. 
massat,  manque  de  respect  (=  anddara). 

Fr.  1,  bK 
mem,  affixe  de  I'ablatif.     Fr.  1,  aJ"  ;  Fr.  2, 

108  6iii. 

men  (cf.  mend),  mois  (=  mdsa).     Fr.  1,  a" 
{itwer  mentsa). 
[Cf.  gr.  ij.rjv,  etc.] 
mena   (cf.  meii),   mois  (=;  m.dsa).     Fr.  2, 

109  a"  (y-warca). 
[Cf.  gr.  /X17V,  etc.] 

menki,  adv.  moins  (=  una°).     Fr.  1,  a'. 

[v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  112.] 
menkisai,   moindreur   (=  unatva),  derive 
de  mehki,  moindre.     Fr.  2,  108  6™. 
[Cf.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  112.] 
miyissam,    Z<^  purs.    sing.    pres.    de   miy, 
frauder,  nuire.     Fr.  1,  6™. 

[Cf.  v.  h.  a.  mein,  faux,  trompeur,  v.  isl. 
m^in,  dommage,  scr.  mdya,  tromj)crie, 
illusion,  etc.] 


mlamam    (2®    pers.    irnper.    de    mlamam 

(ml-^ml   cf.  s. V.  lamalle),  embrouiller ?). 

Fr.  2,  109  6v. 
mot,  alcool  (=  madhu).     Fr.  1,  6". 

[Cf.    scr.    mddhu,    gr.    jxlOv,    v.    h.  a. 

m,etu,  etc.] 
mpa,    postpos.    du    sociatif    (=  sdrdham). 

Fr.  \,a\ 


N" 


na,  thfeme  oblique  du  pronom  de  la  l^e  pers. 

sing,  nclsa  (=  mayd)  instr.    Fr.  2,  108  ftvi. 

was  (=  mahyam),  dat.     Fr.  2,  109  ai. 
naksalye,   blamable   (=  garhya).      Partic. 

futur  passif  de  nahs,  blamer.    Fr.  2,  109  fei 

i^sa,  instrum.).     naksalyi,  cas  sujet  plur. 

Fr.  1,  a". 

[Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  455.J 
naksate,    3<^   pers.    sing.    pres.    de   ndks, 

blamer.  Fr.  2,  108ai,  lOga^i^v;  ^x.  3,aiii. 
Nande  (ndnde),  n.  pr.  empruntfi  au  Sanscrit 

(nanda).     Fr.  2,  108  6"-  i". 
nau|,  avant  (=  purah).     Fr.  1,  6"  ;  Fr.  2, 

109  ai  (=  2>urvam) ;  Fr.  3,  6". 

naiisa,  adj.,  anterieur,  premier.      Fr.  2, 

109^1. 

[Cf.  waz,  un.j 
nauttai,  rvLe{=rathyd).    Fr.  2,  109  ai''{°iie). 
ne,  postposition  indiquant  le  lieu.    P.   ex. 

Fr.    1,   6"   kwasai   ne,    dans   un   village. 

Fr.  3,  ai  V-^. 

[v.  MSL.  xviii.  403.] 
nem,  nom  (=  noma).     Fr.  2,  108  6". 

[Cf.  gr.  ovojxa,  etc.] 
nesau,    V^  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  nes,  etre 

(:=as°).     Fr.  2,109  fti. 
nis,  nom.  du  pronom  de  la  1'®  pers.,  moi 

(=  aham).     Fr.  1,  aiii. 
nisidam,   emprunte  au  sanserif  ni^dana, 

natte  pour  s'asseoir.     Fr.  2,  108  «"*•  i''-  >'. 
no,  particule  d'opposition  (=  tu).     Fr.  2, 

108  a^'  Ji'',  109  ai-  i'>'-  ■'i  Jiv-  v. 

[Cf.  v.  si.  no,  et  surtout  m;?,  mais,  scr. 

nu,  etc.] 
nor,    au-desaous   (=  adhas).      Postposition 

{stdm  n°).     Fr.  2,  108  fti^. 

[Cf.  arm.  nerkhoy,  dessous,  en  bas,  gr. 

evepoi,  'ivepOe,  vepOe,  vipTCpO'S,  etc.] 


KUCHEAN  FRAGMENTS 


381 


are,  m,  frange  (=  da^.     Fr.  2,  108  a^'* 
{°mem,)  ;   108  6^  {°ts). 

[Cf.  V.  h.  a.  snuor,  lien,  cordon,  et  naan, 
coudre,  gr.  vim,  vrjfxa,  lat.  neo,  irl.  snlim, 
j'entrelace,    snathe,   fil,    scr.    snayati,    il 
entoure  de  lloou,  il  habille.] 
nu,  neuf  (=  nava).     Fr.  2,  108  6^'. 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  289.] 
numka,  quatre-yingt-dix  (=  navati).  Fr.  2, 
109  cji. 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  289  et  291.] 

O 

olya,  adverbe  (=:  uttaram).    Outre.    Fr.  1, 

[Cf.  V.  lat.  oUus,  lat.  uls,  ultra,  etc. ;  v.  si. 

lani  (de  *olni),  I'an  pass6,  etc.,  et  tout 

le  groupe  de  B,  alyek,  autre,  lat.  alius, 

etc.] 
om,    cela    (=  tat).      °ne  =  tatra.      Fr.    2, 

108  a^i  h"-^'-,  109  ai-ii  b''.     Cf.  ompostam, 

ompalskonne,  omsap. 

[v.  Journ.  As.,'  1912,  115.] 
ompalskonne,  extase  (=  dhydna).     Fr.  2, 

108  a^. 
ompostam,    apres.     Postposition  {pancikte 

0°).   "Fr.  2,  108  aiv. 
omsap,  cf.  omssap,  en  surplus  (=  atireka). 

Fr.  2,108  ftC 
omssap,  cf.  omsap,  en  surplus  (=  atireka). 

Fr.  2,  108  6^'. 
onolme,  creature  (=  pudgala).     Fr.  1,  a^ 
[Sans   doute  mot  comparable   pour  le 

sens  a  lat.  animal;  cf.  sor.  dnilah,  vent, 

et  tout  le  groupe  de  lat.  animus,  anima ; 

V.  dnm,  souffle.] 
oppilamntsa.     Fr.  2,  108  «"'. 
orotse,  grand  (=  maJiat).     Fr.  2,  108  a^'. 
OS,  maison.     Forme  abregee,  devant  °ne  du 

mot  ost.     Fr.  2,  109  o^L 

[v.  Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  115;  trace  de 

theme    en    -u   dans    ostuwaiivel    of.   scr. 

vdstu,  vastu,  gr.  fdo-ru.] 
oskai,  ^  la  maison,  derive  de  ost,   maison. 

Fr.  2,  109  a^, 
ostassi,  les  gens  de  la  maison.     Cas  sujet 

plur.  de  ostasse,  derlv6  de  ost. 
ostuwaiwe,     ostwaiwe,    famille    (=  kula). 


Derive    de    ost,    maison.     Fr.   2,   109  ft'^. 
Fr.  3,  6'^  {°nta  ne). 
ot,  alors.     Fr.  3,  6»'.      , 
[Cf.  lat.  at,  etc.] 

P 

panaktanne,    adj.    derive   de  panakte,   le 

Bouddha    (=  saugata).       Fr.   2,    108  b" 

{°wastsi);  108  5"  (°raso). 
panakte,   le  Bouddha.     Fr.  1,  6' ;   Fr.  2, 

108  oi-  "•  ™-  "•  "f,  6^-  *"•  "'•  ^-  ";    109  a-f, 

jii.  V  ;  Fr.  3,  6i. 
parkarne,  longueur  (=  dlrgJiatva).     Fr.  2, 

108  a^i  (°«a) ;   108  b^'i  {°karnne  so). 
[v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  115.] 
parna,  en  dehors  de  (=  aniiatra  pali).    Fr. 

1,  b^. 

[Cf.  scr.  paras,  allem.fern,  etc.] 
parra,  en  silence  (=  tusrum).     Fr.  1,  6'. 
passenea,     partic.    pr6s.    de    pa,     garder 
{=1  pdyaiitika,  du  verbe  jjS,  garder).    Fr. 

2,  108  b\    passencana,  nom.  plur.  {°pelai- 
knenta).     Fr.'2,  109  rf. 

past,    adverbe    et    preverbe;     ensuite,    de 

nouveau.     Fr.  2,  109  fti^,  past  aissi. 
[v.    MSL.   xviii.    7 ;    la"" forme  est  in- 

teressante  au  point  de  vue  phonetique ; 

past   est   la  forme   trfes   abregee,   trait^e 

cbmme  un  mot  accessoire,  du  mot  qui  sous 

sa  forme  pleine  est  posfam  ou  pest.] 
patrai,  emprunte  au  Sanscrit  pdtra,  s6bile. 

Fr.  2,  108  0". 
payti,     nom     d'une    categorie     de    fautes 

(^— payantika ;    -pali  pdcittiya).     Fr.  1  a' 

et  pasR. 
pelaikne,  loi  [—dharma).     Fr.  2,  109  6"; 

109  ai  (°n<a,  nom.  plur.). 

[v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  114.] 
pelaiyknesse,  adj.  derive,   au   moyen  du 

suffixe  °sse,   du  mot  pelaiykne,  pelaikne, 

loi  (=  dharma).     Fr.  1,  h^. 
[v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  114.] 
pete,  portion  de  nourriture,  ]3lat.     Fr.   2, 

109  6™-";    Fr.   3,6".     peti,  nom.  plur. 

Fr.  2,  109(ziii. 

[Cf.  scr.  pituh,  lit.  petus,  repas  ?] 
pi,    particule    de    limitation.       Fr.   1,  a^; 

Fr.  2,  108  a^'  {watkassi  pi) ;   109  a" 


[Cf.  scr.  dpi,  gr.  cirt,  arm.  ew,  aussi 


i?: 


382 


VOCABULARY   TO 


V.    Smith,    '  Tocharisoh,'  p.   13,   et    aussi 
MSL.  xvii.  285.] 
pikul,   annee ;    plur.  pikwala.      Cf.   %kaih- 

pikwalamne. 
pikwala,  plur.  de  j^kul,  annee.     Cf.  Iham- 

2>ikwalamne. 
pilsi,  1  (a  portee  de  1  =  ujja°  1).    Fr.  1,  aiv. 
pimtwat,  emprunte  au  Sanscrit  pindapdta, 

tournee  d'aumones.    Fr.  2,  108  a",    pimt- 

wata-ka,  datif.     Fr.  2,  109  a^K 
pir,  emprunte  au  Sanscrit  pltha,  escabeau. 

Fr.  1,  6iv. 
pitkawe,    bavard.      Fr.   2,    109  6i\      Cf. 

pitmaiwaliie  ■=^  pralapa,  dans  Journ.  As., 

1911,  ii.  128  et  130. 
pkante,  largeur  (=  tiryak).     Fr.  2,  108  6' 

(°sa);   108  6^1  (id.). 
plaki,    subst.    tire    de   plah.      Convention 

(^  samvidhdna).     Fr.  1,  a'.     (Cf.  ampld- 

kante.) 

[Cf.  lat.  placet.^ 
po,  tout.  Fr.  l,6iT. 
postam,  aprfes  {=  piaccat).     Fr.  1,  6'";  Fr. 

2,  108  fli  (postposition  :    ieiuwer  postam, 

aprfes  le  repas). 

[Cf.  lat.  post,  etc. ;  v.  MSL.  xviii.  7.] 
postannes,  datif  Ae postanne{^pravdranaj'). 

Fr.  1,  a".     Le  mot  postanne  est  tir6,  au 

moyen  de  I'affixe  °nne  des  abstraita,  de 

I'adverbe  postam,    aprfea,    parce    que    la 

cer^monie  de  la  pravdrand  vient  aprfes  les 

quatre  mois  du  varsa  (saison  des  pluies 

et  de  la  retraite  au  couvent). 
prarom,  oas  oblique  pluriel  de  prdri,  doigt 

{=anguli).     Fr.  2,  108  fti". 
prastram,  etalage.     Emprunte  au  Sanscrit 

2)rastarana.     Fr.  2,  108  a". 
pratimoksa,     transcription     du     Sanscrit 

prdtimoksa.     Fr.  1  a"i,  IM  (jprdtimoks) . 
pratimoksasse,  adj.  forme,  au  moyen  du 

suffixe  °sse,  du  mot  prdtimoksa,  emprunte 

au  Sanscrit  ^ra<imol:sa.     Fr.  2,  109  a". 
preke,  temps  (=  kdla).     Fr.  1,  6". 
prekesai,  epoque,  saisou,  d6riv6  de  preke, 

temps.     Fr.  2,  109  a™. 
preku,     1"    pers.    sinfr.    imper.    de  prek, 

demander.     Fr.  1,  a". 
procer,  frfere  (=  bhrdtar).     Fr.  2,  108  6". 
[v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  111.] 


pudgalyik,  emprunte  au  Sanscrit  pudgalika, 
individuel.     Fr.  1,  a". 

R 

„ra^,  particule  d'afBrmation,  indiquant  la 

suppression  d'une  formule   deji   enoncee 

(=  ityddi,peijydla).    Fr.  2,  108  b^,  109  a\ 
[Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  114.] 
raksane,     participe     de     rak-a,     ^tendre. 

Fr.  2,  108  a"- v. 

[Cf.  gr.  opiyoi,  got.  -rakjan,  etc. ;  pour 

la  formation,  v.  MSL.  xviii.  18.] 
rano,  aussi.     Fr.  2,  108  a"^^. 

[v.  Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  460.] 
rapanam,    3^   pers.    sing.    pres.    de    rap, 

creuser  (=  khan°).     Fr.  1,  a", 
rapatsi,  infinitif  de  rap,  creuser  (—khan^). 

Fr.  1,  a", 
raso  (cf.  rso),  coudee  ( =  vitasti).     Fr.  2, 108 

flf i,  Ji-  vi  {°sa) ;  plur.  rsonta,  vide  s.  v.  rao. 
reki,  parole  (=  vac).     Fr.  1,  a"^^. 

[A.  rake;  v.  si.  rekg,  reel;  cf.  SS.,  933 

et  suiv.] 
rso,    forme    r^duite    de   raso,    coudee ;    cf. 

tvirsohcd.     Rsonta,  plur.  de  raso.     Fr.  2, 

108  Jvi. 


sa,  postpos.  de  I'instrumental.     Fr.  1,  a'-", 
sakse  P    Fr.  1,  W. 

sam  (sama  Fi\  3,  6^i),  cas  sujet  masc.  du 
d6monstratif  se,  su,  aveo  -m  (v.  MSL.  xviii. 
417).       Fr.  2,  109  Jiv.     Cf.  samp  infra. 
[Cf.  scr.  sd,  gr.  o  et  v.  lat.  sum,  so«.] 
sam,  6gal  (=  sama).     Fr.  2,  108  6'^'. 

"  [v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  113.] 
samane,  cas  sujet  sing.     Fr.  1,  ai-i'f  6'-i'«'; 
Fr.  2,  108  b^",  109  avi;  Fr.  3  o". 
samdni,  cas  sujet  plur.     Fr.  1,  a";  Fr.  2, 
108  5",  109  6^;  Fr.  3,  61^. 
Formes  obliques : 
samdneitsa,  sing.     Fr.  2,  108  a^',  109  U. 
samdnettse,  sing.     Fr.  2,  108  a'. 
samdneriits,  plur.    Fr.  1,  aii';  Fr.  2, 109  a" 

{samdnet).     Fr.  2,  109  6*. 
samdnem,  plur.     Fr.  2,  109  6". 
samp,     autre     notation     de     sam,     sama, 
'celui-ci'.     Cf.  la  note  1  de  la  page  13. 
Fr.  2,  109  6™. 


KUCHEAN  FRAGMENTS 


383 


sail,  communaut^.      Emprunt6  au  Sanscrit 

samgha.     Fr.  2,  108  a'  6".     Cf.  aussi  la 

variante  sdiik.     Forme  oblique :  san  ne. 

Fr.  2,  108  6". 
saS,  pronom  possessif  de  la  3^  pers.  (=  sva). 

Fr.  l,aii. 

sand,  adj.  poss.     Fr.  2,  109  a"''^. 

[Cf.   lat.   suos,  etc. ;    pour   le   suffixe, 

V.  Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  464.] 
sank,  la  communaut^.  Emprunt6  au  Sanscrit 

samgha.    Fr.  l,6iii.    Cas  oblique  san^aMse. 

Fr.  1,  h\ 
sanmya,  passe  passif  de  ianm,  proclamer. 

Fr.  2,  108  feiv. 

[Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  113.] 
sap,  plus ;  dans  omsap,  q.  v. 
sar,    main    {=  hasta).      Fr.   1,0";    Fr.   2, 

lOga-^'i. 
sarma,  cause  {:=  pratyaya).     Fr.  1,  6™, 
sarsassi,     3^    pers.    sing.    opt.    de     4ars, 

ovdonaer  {=:  vyava^as°).     Fr.  2,  109  6^". 

Cf.  Sarsemanenna. 
sarsemaneufia,    partio.    femin.    sing,    de 

§ars,    ordonner    (=:  vyavaid^).      Fr.    2, 

109  S'f.      Cf.  Sarsassi. 
sau,    celle-ci,    cas    sujet    fimin.    sing,    du 

demonstr.  su.     Fr.  2,  109  a"?, 
[v.  sam ;  cf.  v.  lat.  so-jpsa.] 
saulassofica,  voc.  plur.  de  Saulassu  {=^dyus- 

mantah).     Fr.  2,  109  a'. 

saulassonci.     Fr.  2,  109  5'. 

[Sur   6aul,   vie ;    cf.    gr.    t,S>,    etc.,  v. 

Smith,  '  Tocharisoh ',  p.  16.] 
saulassu,    vivaut  (^  dyusmai) ;    cas  sujet 

sing.     Fr.  2,  108  aiii. 
se,  ce  (==  idam).     Fr.  2,  108  a^'  {°yarmd). 

Fr.  2,  109  ftii  {°pelaikne). 
se,    pron.   relatif  (=  yah).      Fr.    1,  a'-if ; 

Fr.  3,  aif. 

[Cf.  scr.  syd,  v.  pers.  %a?] 
sem,    3s   pers.    sing.    aor.    absolu    de    km, 

venir.     Fr.  2,  109  a^. 
[v.  MSL.  xviii.  3.] 
sesuwer,  avoir  mang6  (^  bhakta);  infinitif 

a  redoublement  de  V^u,  iuw,  ^w,  manger. 

Fr.  2,  108  ai-iii. 

[Si    ^    repose    sur    gutturale,    comme 

dans  iaula,  vie,  A.  hi,  on  est  tente  de 


rapprocher  si.  zivati,  niacher  (pres.  zivq 
et  zuJQ),  V.  h.  a.  kiuwan,  pers.  javad,  il 
mache.] 

siksapat,  prescription.  Emprunt^  au  San- 
scrit ^iksdpada.     Fr.  2,  108  6'^. 

siluantaiii,  lire  peut-etre  iilndnta,  qui 
serait  le  pluriel  d'un  mot  fdnd,  dispute, 
querelle  (=  kalaha,  vivdda).     Fr.  1,  a". 

sitmalyfie.  Fr.  1,  6'"  (-««,  instrum.), 
infraction. 

skas,  six  (=  sat).     Fr.  2,  108  6". 
[v.  MSL.  xvii.  287.] 

skente,  3^  pers.  plur.  pres.  de  s-k,  6tre. 
Fr.  2,  109  6". 

[v.  MSL.  xviii.  28.] 

sklokacce,  confus ;  derive  de  sklok,  con- 
fusion. Fr.  2,  108  6*'  {-cci,  cas  sujet 
pi.). 

sle,  avec  (=  sa°).     Fr.  2,  108  6'  {°ywdrca). 

smafine,  bouillie(=:  supa).     Fr.  2,  109  6^'. 

sno,  femme,  epouse  (  =  patnl).  Fr.  2, 
109  a\ 

[v.  MSL.  xviii.  25,  note.] 

spa,  et;  copule  enclitique.     Fr.  2,  109  6"^. 
[v.  Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  460.] 

spak,  assaisonnement.     Fr.  2,  109  6'"- 

sporttitr,  3<*  pers.  sing.  pr6s.  de  sport, 
fournir.     Fr.  2,  109  a"'. 

[On  pent  songer  au  groupe  ti'^s  diversifi6 
de  gr.  a-rrdpw,  lat.  spargo,  etc. ;  cf. 
spdrtalne,  Journ.  As.,  1911,  ii.  149.] 

Sravasti,  emprmit^  au  Sanscrit  (°«e). 
Fr.  2,  108  aii,  109  a«  6" ;  Fr.  3,  h\ 

stam,  arbre  (=  vrksa).     Fr.  2,  108  a^'^. 

[Cf.  V.  sax.  stamn,  v.  h.  a.  stam,  et  irl. 
tamon,  tronc] 

ste,  3s  pars.  sing.  pres.  de  s,  etre.    Fr.  2, 
109  6iii-iv;  Fr.  3,  b^^. 
[v.  sA:era««.] 

Sthulananda,  nom  propre  d'une  religieuse; 
emprunte  au  sanserif  sthulananda.  Fr.  2, 
109  6iii. 

stmausa,  participe  femin.  sing,  de  st-m, 
se  tenir  {—  sthd°).     Fr.  2,  109  6", 

[I'm  de  siam-  est  un  element  de  forma- 
tion, comme  dans  lyama,  v.  sup.  s.  v. 
lamalle,  et  katmaskem,  ils  arrivent,  a  cote 
de  kekatkau,  vu  ci-dessus ;  on  pent  done 
rapprocher  le  groupe  du  lat.  stdre.^ 


384 


VOCABULARY  TO 


stwara  (cf.  kwer),  quatre  (=  catuh).    Fr.  2, 
108  6iii,  109  ci>. 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  287.] 
stwer,  quatre  (=  catuh).     Fr.  1,  a". 

[v.  MSL.  xvii.  287.] 
su,  pronom  demonstratif  (=  sah).    Fr.  1,  o* ; 
Fr.  2,  108  a^  (cas  sujet  masc). 

[Of.  scr.  sd,  gr.  6,  got.  sa;  v.  le  neutre 

<M.] 

sucikar,    empruute   au   Sanscrit  sucigrha, 

6tui  a  aignilles.     Fr.  1,  U^. 
sutar    (cf.   sutar),    emprunt^    au    Sanscrit 

sutra.     Fr.  1,  a™-  iv. 
sutar    (cf.   sutar),    emprunt6    au    Sanscrit 

sutra.     Fr.  2,  109  a"  (°ttse,  cas  oblique). 
swatsi,     nourriture,     aliment    {^=  bhakia). 

Fr.  2,  109  a™  (Jwatsanma,  plur.). 

[v.    sesuwer  1 ;     Smith,     '  Tocharisch,' 

p.  17,  rapproche  saul?\ 
swatsi,    infinitif    de    swa,    suw,    manger. 

Fr.  2,  109  ai^--*';  Fr.  3,  6^^. 

swatsis,  datif  de  I'infinitif    Fr.  2,  109  &•". 

stcdtsiseo,  datif  emphatique  de  I'infinitif. 

Fr.  2,  109  b^. 
[v.  sesuwer.] 

T 

takaiii,    3^  pers.  sing.  pr6s.  de  tdJc,  etre. 

Fr.  1,  a'-  if  bK 
takau,   1^®  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  tdk,  gtre. 

Fr.  2,  109  6v. 
takoya,  3»  pers.  sing,  optat.  de  tdk,  etre. 

Fr.  2,  109  6". 
tanapate,      bienfaiteur.       Emprunt6     au 

Sanscrit    ddnapati.       Fr.    2,    1 09  6"-  ''^  ; 

Fr.  3  6i-  "i. 

tandpatem,  cas  regime.     Fr.  2,  109  6"'. 
ta-ne,  looatif  sing,  du  demonstratif  if,  tii. 

Fr.  2,  109  6". 
tay,  cas  sujet  f^min.  sing,  du  demonstra- 
tif; celle-li.     Fr.  2,  109  a"  {°no). 
te,    adj.   et    pron.    demonstratif ;    celui-l&. 

Fr.  2,  108  6"  {°yarma). 
teksa,  3®  pers.  sing.  aor.  de  tek,  touchei 

{=spr^°).     Fr.  2,  108  av. 
[Journ.  As.,  1911,  ii.  147.] 
tra(sa)lye,  a  croquer  {z=khd,danli/a),  partic. 

futur  passif  de  trds  1     Fr.  2,  109  «'■'. 
trikelye.     Fr.  l,b^[°sa'i]. 


trite,  troisifeme  (=  trtlya).     Fr.  2,  109  a". 

[MSL.  xvii.  286.] 
tsa,  affixe  de  dipendance.     Fr.  1 ,  a". 
tsalnalye,  k  manger  (=  bhojaniya).    Partic. 

futur  passif  de  tsdl.     Fr.  2,  109  6^. 
tsamtsi,      infinitif      de      team,      ajouter. 

Fr.  2,  108  a". 
tsankane.    Fr.    1,  6"   {°sa.     Cf.  peut-etre 

tsonkaik,  le  matin). 
tsenketar,  3®  pers.  sing,  moyen  de  tsenk,  se 

lever  (=  MttM°).     Fr.  l,6i. 

[Cf.  lit.  stengtis,  s'efforcer;  t.  isl.  stinga, 

piquer,  v.  h.  a.  stanga,  perclie  1  en  tout  cas 

I'un  des  mots  du  grand  groupe  de  {s)th-, 

itre  debout,  se  tenir.] 
tsonkaik,    le   matin  (^  prdtar).      Fr.   2, 

108  a". 

ttse,  affixe  du  g^nitif.     Fr.  1,  a^,  etc. 
tu,    demonstratif     neutre     (cf.     su),     cela 
(=  tat) ;  tu.     Fr.  2,  109  ai"  (accus.). 

Cas  obliques  : 
tu-mem.     Fr.  1,  ai" ;    Fr.    2,   108  a^  6>, 

109  a""--  5™. 
<M-«a.     Fr.  2,  109  6"'. 

[Cf.  scr.  <(ii,  gr.  to,  got.  /a<-a ;  v.  le 
masculin  sa.] 
tuyknesa,  de  cette  faf  on  ;  locution  adverb, 
form^e  de   tu,  demonstr.  +  ydkne,  fafon 
+  sa,  affixe  d'instrum.     Fr,  1,  6™. 

U 

Uppalavarnafia,    nom    d'une    rellgieuse  ; 
emprunte  au  Sanscrit  Utpalavarria.   Fr.  2, 

109  aii'. 

W 

wanksate,   3<^  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  wdnks, 

donuer,  apporter,  preparer  ?    Fr.  2, 1 09  a^' 

(%«). 
warpanalle,  partic.  futur  passif  de  wdr2>, 

accepter,    gouter    (=  pali    sadiy°).     Fr. 

1,  a". 
warpatar,   3®  pers.  sing,  subjonctif  moyen 

de  wdr2>,   accepter,   gouter  (=  pali  sddi- 

yeyya).     Le  present  fait  wdrpndtr  ;   Fr. 

1,  aiii. 

[Cf  Revti-e  celtique,  1913  (vol.  xxxiv), 

142.] 


KUCHEAN  FRAGMENTS 


385 


warseiii,  plur.  oblique  de  ivarse,  brigand 

(=  stena).     Fr.  1,  a\ 
wartto,  bois,  pare  (=  vana).    Fr.  2,  108  to"i 

{%e). 
wasampam,    emprunt6    au   Sanscrit    upa- 

sampanna,  ordonn^  moiue.     Fr.  1 ,  a^. 
wasaihpat,    emprunt6    au    Sanscrit    upa- 

sariipad,  ordination.     Fr.  1,  a*. 
wastsi    (cf.   w(istsi),    vetement    (=  civara). 

Fr.  2,  lOSaiiJiii-iv-v. 
[Cf.  lat.  uestis,  etc.] 
wastsi    (of.    wastsi),   vetement   (=  civara). 

Fr.  2,  108  6v.vi(°«se);  ib.  {°niem). 
wat  (of.  wat),  ou  (=  va).      Fr.  2,  108  6" 

{pandkte  wat  yopsa). 
wat,  ou  (=  vd).     Ft.  2,  108  6™  (nande  wat), 

108  b^. 

[Journ.  As.,  1911,  i.  457.] 
watkassaih,   3^  pers.  sing.  pr^s.  de  wdt-k, 

ordonner  de  (=  °aya°  oausatif).    Fr.  1,  a^K 
watkassi,   3®  pers.  sing,  optatif  de  wat-k, 

wat-h,  ordonner,  faire  faire.    Fr.  2,  108  a^. 
watko,    partic.    de    wat-h,    ordonner.      Cf. 

watkassam. 
wSttare,"  affaire  {=^  artha,  etc.).    Fr.  1,6'; 

Fr.  2,  108  ai. 
wayate,  3®  pers.  sing.  pr^s.  de  way,  con- 

duire,  emmener.     Fr.  2,  109  a^  (°ree). 
[Cf.  sor.  veti,  lit.  veju,  etc.] 
wefla,    3®   pers.    sing.    aor.    de    iven,    dire; 

Fr.  3,  Ji"- 
wenawa,  passe  de  luen,  dire  (vac"  .     Fr.  2, 

108  av. 
weskemane,   partic.  moyen  de  wen,  dire 

(=  vac°,  vad°).     Fr.  1,  a^. 
wessaih,   3®  pers.  sing,   du  pres.  de  wen, 

dire.     Fr.  1,  a™. 
wewefluwa,  plur.  du  part,  a  redoublement 

de  wen,  dire  (=  uddista).    Fr.  2,  108  6^i. 
wi,  deux.     Cf.  wirsoncd. 

[MSL.  xvii.  285.] 
wilaksananca,  ayant  deux  marques  {iDi, 

deux  +  Sanscrit    laksana  +  suf&xe    °nca, 

possessif).     Fr.  2,  lOSfiiii. 
winai,     emprunt6     au     Sanscrit     vinaya. 

Fr.  1,  aiv, 
winasare,  nom  d'agent  tir^  de  winas,  rendre 

hommage.     Fr.  2,  109  fti^. 
wirsoQca,  ayant  deux  coud^es;  adj.  compost 


de  wi,  deux  -'t-rso,  coudee  +ncci,  affixe  du 
possessif.     Fr.  2,  108  U. 
wrattsal,     respeotivement  ?    [=  prati   [de- 
s'anlya]).     Fr.  109  ffli  6". 

[De  la  famille  de  lat.  uerto,  uersus.'] 
wsassalle,  part,  futur  passif  de  ws,  was, 
habiter  (=  vastavya).     Fr.  2,  108  a". 
[Scr.  vdsati,  got.  wisan.~\ 

Y 

yaka,  absolutif  de    yak,    demand  er,  men- 

dier.  Fr.  1,  ¥^ ;  Fr.  2,  109  a'v. 
yakne,  ykne,  fa9on.  Cf.  tuyknesa. 
yaksa,  3^  pers.  sing.  aor.  de  yak,  appeler. 

Fr.  2,  109  av. 
yam,    3®  pers.   sing.    pr6s.    de    yn,    aller. 

Fr.  l,a\ 

[Cf.  gr.  eljxi,  lit.  einu,  etc.  ;  SS.  p.  926.] 
yamasalle,  partic.  futur  passif  (:=  kara- 

niya)  de  yam,  faire.    Fr.  1,  b^^ ;    Fr.  2, 

i08  fflvi. 
yamaska,   3^  pers.  sing.  subj.  (?)  de  yam, 

faire.     Fr.  1,  b". 
yamaskau,   1'^^  pers.  sing.  pr6s.  de  yam, 

faire.     Fr.  1 ,  a™ 
yamaskemane,  part.  pres.  moyen  de  yam, 

faire  (°sa).     Fr.  2,108  a^. 
yamassam,    3®  pers.   sing.  pres.   de  yam, 

fairef    Fr.  1,  a*  b\ 
yamassitr,  3*^  pers.  sing,  frequent,  moyen  de 

yctmVfaire.     Fr.  2,  108  fii^, 
yamastar,  3®  pers.   sing.  pr^s.    moyen  de 

yam,,  faire.     Fr.  1,  b^'^. 
yamatr,  3®  pers.  sing.  subj.  de  yam,  faire. 

Fr.  2,  108  6^. 
yamtr,  3^  pers.  sing.  subj.  de  yam,  faire. 

Fr.  2,  108  6i. 
yamtsi,    infinitif    de    yam,    faire.      Fr.  2, 

108  aii. 
yapi,    3®  pers.   sing.    opt.    de    yap,    entrer 

{  =  pravi^).     Fr.  2,  108  6". 
yarke,  sufdsance,  abondance.    Fr.  2,  109  a"'. 

[v.  yarm.~\ 
yarm    (of.  yarmd),   mesure   {=  pramdna). 

Fr.  1,  6iv;  Fr.  2,  108  6^  (^°t8a). 
[v.  Journ.  As.,  1912,  i.  114.] 
yarma   (cf.  yarm),    mesure  (^^  pramdna). 

Fr.  2,  108  avi  (^se  yarmd) ;  Fr.  2,  108  ft'v-  ^'^ 

(wasisi  tise  yarmd). 


C  C 


386 


VOCABULARY  TO  KUCHEAN  FEAGMENTS 


yarm^mssu,    ayant    la    mesure    (=  pra- 

manika).     Fr.  2,  108  a^i. 
yasi,    nuit    (:=  rdtri).       Fr.    1,  6™    l^-sa, 

instruro.). 
yatka,   absolutif  de  yat,  yat,   s'ocouper   a, 

(=  bhavay°).     Fr.  2,  108  a". 
yesan,  clair.     Fr.  1,  a^. 
yitmassam,  3^  pers.  sing.  pr^s.  de  yit-m, 

ydt-m,  entrer  (=  ^rawc°).     Fr.  1,6". 
ynari,  subst.  tire  de  yn,  chemin  {  =  mdrga). 

Fr.  1,  a\ 


ynemane,  partic.  moyen  de  yn,  yan,  aller. 

Fr.  2,  109  a"  (femin.) ;   109  a"  (masc). 
[MSL.  xviii.  19  et  26.] 
yokam,  3»  pers.  sing.  pres.  de  yok,  boire. 

Fr.  1,  6". 
yopsa,    3®  pers.  sing.  aor.   de  yap,  entrer 

{  —  pravis°).     Fr.  2,  108  a^  5". 
ywarca     (cf.    y  wared),    demi     (=  ardha). 

Fr.  2,  109  a"  i^mend). 
ywarca    (of.   ywarca),    moitie    (=  ardha). 

Fr,  2,  108  5i-". 


A   BILINGUAL   FRAGMENT   IN    CHINESE- 
KHOTANESE 

Hoernle  MSS.,  Nos.  142  and  143.     (Plate  XXII.) 

INTRODUCTORY  REMARKS 
By  a.  F.  Rudolf  Hoeknle. 

The  two  parts  of  this  fragment,  shown  on  Plate  XXII,  belong  to  two  separate 
consignments.  Part  i  to  No.  142  and  Part  ii  to  No.  143,  which  were  forwarded  to 
me  from  Simla,  in  May  1903  and  January  1904  respectively.  In  the  forwarding 
letter  it  was  stated  that  they  had  been  purchased  from  Badruddin,  Aksakal  of 
Khotan,  and  that  they  were  believed  to  have  been  discovered  in  the  Takla  Makan 
Desert  in  some,  not  further  specified,  locality.  Regarding  the  probable  identity, 
however,  of  this  locality,  see  the  Introductory  Remarks,  on  pp.  2  and  85.  That,  in 
any  case,  they  come  from  the  same  locality  is  shown  by  the  circumstance  that  they 
make  up  a  nearly  continuous  whole,  as  may  be  seen  in  Plate  XXII.  Either  of  the 
two  parts,  when  received  by  me,  was  broken  in  several  pieces,  as  indicated  by  the 
dotted  lines.  Part  i  consisted  of  two  pieces  {a  and  b) ;  Part  ii,  of  three  pieces 
[a,  b,  c).  Their  material,  in  its  present  condition,  is  thin,  hard,  brownish,  rather 
brittle  paper,  which  has  every  appearance  of  its  discoloration  and  brittleness  being 
due  to  exposure  to  the  heat  of  fire.  They  were  first  described  by  me  in  the  Journal 
of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  for  1906,  p.  696. 

The  total  fragment  measui-es  250  x  393  mm.,  or  about  10  x  151  inches.  Its 
width  of  250  mm.,  or  about  10  inches,  is  practically  the  same  as  that  of  the  Chinese 
Roll,  shown  as  No.  1  in  Plate  191  (p.  176)  of  Sir  Aurel  Stein's  Ruins  of  Cathaj^, 
volume  ii.  That  roll  is  inscribed  with  the  complete  Chinese  version  of  a  Buddhist 
religious  text ;  and  each  column  numbers  seventeen  Chinese  ideograms.  In  our 
fragment^  too,  each  complete  column  of  Chinese  writing  contains  seventeen  ideo- 
grams. This  agreement,  in  both  respects,  is  striking ;  and  considering  that  the 
manuscripts  come  from  different,  widely  separate,  localities  (the  Chinese  roll  from 

CC  2 


388  A   BILINGUAL   FRAGMENT 

Tunhuang',  our  bilingual  fragment  probably  from  Kbadalik),  it  seems  to  suggest 
that  there  existed  a  kind  of  standard  in  the  width  of  material  and  the  number  of 
ideograms  in  a  column.  On  this  basis  it  follows  that  our  fragment  must  be  a  very 
small  portion  of  a  roll  which  originally  must  have  been  of  very  considerable  size 
to  accommodate  the  extensive  text  of  the  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita.  In  its 
present  condition  the  fragment  does  not  permit  of  being  bent  or  rolled ;  but  its 
brittleness  and  discoloration  indicates  that  this  is  due  to  its  paper  having,  at  one 
time,  being  subjected  to  the  action  of  heat  which  caused  it  to  be  scorched. 

The  term  '  bilingual '  is  applied  to  this  fragment  merely  to  indicate  that  it 
bears  on  its  two  sides  writing  in  two  different  languages  and  scripts :  Chinese  on 
the  obverse,  and  Khotanese  on  the  reverse.  Whether  the  texts  inscribed  on  the 
two  sides  are  in  any  way  related  to  each  other  remains  to  be  discovered.  Both 
obviously  are  portions  of  some  .Buddhist  religious  text.  That  on  the  obverse  has 
been  determined  by  its  editors  to  belong  to  the  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita. 
Whether  the  portion  inscribed  on  the  reverse  belongs  to  the  same  work  has  not 
yet  been  discovered.  It  is  certainly  not  identical  with  the  portion  inscribed  on  the 
obverse,  though,  seeing  that  the  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita  is  a  rather  extensive 
work,  it  may  still  turn  out  to  be  another  portion  of  its  text,  which  may  have  been 
either  wholly  in  Khotanese,  or  (what  is  more  probable,  see  below)  in  Sanskrit 
interspersed  with  Khotanese.  On  the  other  hand,  it  may  also  be  a  portion  of 
a  quite  different  religious  work. 

Immediately  after  receipt  of  the  whole  fragment,  it  was  submitted  by  me  to 
Professor  Chavannes,  for  the  purpose  of  examining  the  Chinese  text.  His  reading 
of  it,  and  partial  translation  by  Professor  S.  Levi,  were  first  communicated  to  me  on 
February  3,  1904  ;  but  no  identification  of  the  text  was  at  that  date  attainalde.  The 
late  Dr.  Bushell,  to  whom  the  Chinese  text  was  next  submitted,  concurred  (Feb.  13, 
1904)  with  Professor  Chavannes'  reading,  and  at  the  same  time  pointed  out  that  in 
Bunyiu  Nanjio's  'Catalogue  of  the  Buddhist  Tripitaka',  col.  199,  there  was 
enumerated  a  Satra,  No.  874,  which  comprised  in  its  title  four  of  the  ideograms 
of  our  Chinese  text,  viz.  col.  i,  nos.  14-17 ;  col.  v,  nos.  13-16  ;  col.  ix,  nos.  11-14. 
About  two  years  afterwards  the  laborious  researches  of  Professors  Chavannes  and 
Levi  were  rewarded  by  the  discovery  of  the  source  of  the  Chinese  text  in  the 
Sanskrit  Original  of  the  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita,  as  explained  by  the  former 
in  the  remarks  introducing  his  edition  of  the  text.  Their  joint  discovery  was 
announced  in  the  Seance  of  the  Academic  des  Inscriptions  et  Belle-Lettres,  on 
May  25,  1906.  Their  edition,  now  published,  was  communicated  to  me  early  in 
June  1906. 

The  Khotanese  text,  on  the  reverse  of  our  fragment,  on  which  I  had  been 
working  myself,  was  communicated  b}'  me  in  September  1908  to  Professor  Leumann, 


IN   CHINESE-KHOTANESE  389 

who  had  been  already,  with  much  success,  turning  his  attention  to  the  decipher- 
ment of  the  still  almost  '  unknown '  Khotanese  language  (see  Journal  of  the  German 
Oriental  Society,  vol.  Ixii,  pp.  83  ff.).  He  very  kindly  sent  me,  in  October  1908, 
a  provisional  reading  of  the  text  with  some  valuable  shoi-t  notes.  That  reading 
coincided,  in  the  main,  with  my  own  provisional  reading.  The  revised  reading, 
now  published  by  me,  reflects,  of  course,  the  present  state  of  our  knowledge  of  the 
Khotanese  language.  Those  of  Professor  Leumann's  annotations  which  are  utilized 
in  my  edition  are  acknowledged  by  the  addition  of  his  initial  (L.). 

The  identification  of  the  Khotanese  text,  owing  to  its  very  fragmentary 
condition,  offers  peculiar  difBculties.  Nevertheless,  the  similarity  of  what  is 
intelligible  in  it  with  certain  passages  of  the  text  published  by  Professor  Leumann 
in  his  Zur  nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur,  pp.  88  ff.,  suggests  a  certain 
probability.  That  text  is  the  original  Sanskrit  version  of  the  Adhyardhasatika 
Prajnaparamita  interspersed,  at  certain  points,  with  passages  in  Khotanese  which 
commend  the  beneficial  effects  of  reading  that  work,  or  hearing  it  read.  Our  text 
clearly  contains  a  similar  commendation ;  and  the  conclusion  suggests  itself  that 
the  Roll,  of  which  our  fragment  alone  survives,  contained  the  Sanskrit  text  of  some 
religious  work  interspersed  with  Khotanese  commendations  of  its  religious  efficacy. 
That  religious  work  may  very  well  have  been  the  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita ; 
and  in  that  case  we  should  have  here  a  fragment  of  a  more  strictly  bilingual  roll. 
Some  of  the  Rolls  of  the  Stein  Collection,  which  have  been  examined  by  me,  are 
inscribed  on  their  reverse  side  with  Khotanese  texts,  either  Sutras  or  Dharanis. 
The  latter,  however,  do  not  contain  commendatory  passages  of  quite  the  same 
description.  It  seems  more  probable,  therefore,  that  the  text  on  the  back  of  our 
Roll  was,  not  that  of  a  Dharani,  but  of  a  Sutra.  However,  my  suggestion  of  its 
having  been  the  Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita  is  not  intended  to  indicate  more 
than  a  bare  possibility. 


390  A   BILINGUAL   FRAGMENT 

Obvers:    UN  FRAGMENT  EN  CHINOIS  DE  LA  SATASAHASRIKA 

praj:S'aparamita 

Par  Ed.  Chavannes  et  Sylvatn  1i±vi 

Le  texte  qui  nous  a  €te  soumis  par  M.  Hoernle  est  trace  sur  papier ;  les  deux 
fragments  dont  il  se  compose  appartenaient  ^  une  serie  continue  de  23  lignes  qui 
contenaient  chacune  17  caractferes ;  aucune  des  lignes  n'est  complete,  mais  les 
colonnes  se  juxtaposent  immediatement  les  unes  ^  la  suite  des  autres ;  sur  cette 
^tendue  plus  large  que  haute,  on  ne  voit  aucun  indice  de  division  par  page ;  or,  la 
pratique  ordinaire  des  Chinois  donnant  ii  la  page  plus  de  hauteur  que  de  largeur,  il 
parait  evident  que  le  passage  entier  n'a  pu  former  une  page  unique  ;  d'ou  il  suit 
que  ce  texte  n'etait  pas  divise  par  pages^  mais  etait  ecrit  sur  un  rouleau  continu  qui 
se  developpait  de  tout  en  bout ;  I'usage  de  ces  rouleaux  ayant  disparu  presque 
aussitot  apres  la  diffusion  de  I'imprimerie  au  dixieme  si&cle  de  notre  ere,  notre 
manuscrit  ne  saurait  descendre  a  une  epoque  plus  basse. 

D'autre  part  nous  avons  reconnu  que  le  texte  reproduit  litteralement  la  version 
publiee  en  659  p.  C.  sous  la  direction  de  Hiuan-tsang.^  La  date  de  ces  fragments  se 
trouve  done  comprise  entre  la  fin  du  septieme  siecle  et  le  commencement  du  dixifeme. 

Le  contenu  de  ce  passage  est  assez  insignifiant :  il  eut  et6  difficile  d'en  recon- 
naitre  Torigine^  n'eut  ete  la  mention  au  vocatif  de  Subhuti  ^  ^3.  qui  figui-e  au 
premier  plan  dans  les  multiples  recensions  de  la  Prajna  paramita.  Meme  avec  ce 
precieux  indice,  il  a  fallu  depouiller  le  colossal  fatras  de  la  Paramita  en  cent  mille 
stances  formant  quatre  cents  chapitres  pour  determiner  la  provenance  exacte  de  ces 
fragments.  Nos  efforts  ont  abouti  et  nous  avons  retrouve  notre  texte  dans  le 
chap,  cexxxv  (ed.  de  Tokyo,  1881,  vol.  viii,  fasc.  2,  p.  62  v°). 

La  recherche  du  passage  correspondant  dans  1' original  Sanscrit  nous  a  conduit 
k  une  constatation  qui  n'est  pas  sans  int^ret.  La  version  chinoise,  en  cet  endroit 
comme  en  bien  d'autres,  s'^carte  de  la  recension  sanscrite  provenant  du  Nepal ;  nous 
avons  compare  dans  toute  sa  longueur  le  chapitre  xxvi  du  Sanscrit  a  la  section 
correspondante  (chap,  clxxxii-cclxxxiv)  du  chinois  et  partout  nous  avons  remarque 
la  meme  divergence ;  le  Sanscrit  est  le  plus  court,  ou,  pour  mieux  dire,  le  moins 
prolixe.  Nous  ne  pouvons  done  pas  mettre  en  regard  de  notre  passage  chinois  un 
texte  Sanscrit  rigoureusement  equivalent ;  cependant  de  part  et  d'autre  la  res- 
semblance  est  assez  complete  pour  que  presque  tons  les  termes  chinois  s'expliquent 
directement  en  Sanscrit. 

^  On  relfevera  une  singularity  sans  importance  dans  la  colonne  20  de  notre  planche  ou 
le  texte  de  Hiuan-tsang  ne  fournit  que  16  caractferes  au  lieu  de  17;  peut-etre  le  scribe 
avait-il  r6p6t6  par  erreur  un  des  mots  qui  devaient  figurer  dans  la  lacune. 


IN   CHINESE-KHOTANESE 


391 


itt^lIH^l^HK^tr^^^^^B^^l^iH^^^- 


1  5^^#liSt:H^i1 


t::^  1  $^^^i^t:Jp:'S:^t]?lIH^^i 


t:$l^  I  ^K-I@^i^^^^i^t:tl?  1  ^^^^ 


^t:H^ilH^n':|;H^'^l+^^:^#^gIH^^  ! 


lg^D^||ii5iJS5 trivia  ]  ^|^^if?t:H^  1 1  H^  il 


iiiin- 


[tm  i 


(^ilH=^il^H=? 


i^m^m.}^m 


392  A  BILINGUAL   FEAGMENT 

Nous  donnerons  d'abord  la  traduction  du  texte  chinois  (cf.  p.  391) ;  sous 
chaque  ligne  nous  ajouterons  en  italiques  les  equivalents  sanscrits  garantis  soit  par 
le  passage  original  de  la  Satasahasrika,  soit  par  I'usage  constant.  Nous  publierons 
ensuite  la  partie  correspondante,  quoique  non  identique,  de  la  Satasahasrika  sanscrite 
qui  est  encore  inedite. 

0   Subhuti!     Les  quatre  vaisaradyas^  etant  purifies,  le  fruit  de  srotaapanna 
Subhute  vaUdradya  mmddJiyd  \srotadpannapJialavisuddliih  i 

est  purifie ;  le  fruit  de  srotaapanna  etant  purifi^,  la  qualite  de  science  d'omniscient 
xrotadpannapliala  vimddhyd'\  sarvdkdrajhatdvi^uddhir 

est  purifiee.     Pourquoi  eela  ?     Si  les  quatre  vaisaradyas  sont  purifies,  si  le  fruit  de 
iti         lii  vai&dradyavisuddliU  ca  srotadpan- 

srotaapanna   est   purifie,  si  la   cpalite    de  science   d'omniscient   est    purifiee,   c'est 
najAalavihiddliis  ca  sarvdkdrajnatdvihtddliU 

qu'il  n'y  a  la  ni  dualite,  ni  division  en  deux,  ni  separation,  ni  coupure. 
c<>ddvayam  etad  advaidlnkdram  abhinnain      accJiinnam  II 


Les  quatre  vaisaradyas  etant  purifies,  les  fruits  de  sakrdagamin,  d'anagamin 
vaUdradyamiuddliya  [sakrddgoiiiy  andgdmy- 

et  d'arhat  sont  purifies ;    les  fruits  de  sakrdagamin,  d'anagamin  et  d'arhat  etant 
arhatpfialavimddhiJi  I  sakrddgdmy       andgdmy-arliatjilialavi&uddhyd 

purifi.es,   la    qualite    de    science    d'omniscient    est    purifiee.      Pourquoi   cela  ?      Si 
sarvdkdrajfiatd  viiuddhir  iti  hi 

les  quatre  vaisaradyas  sont  purifies,  si  les  fruits  de  sakrdagamin,  d'anagamin  et 
vai&dradya  visuddhiS  ca  sakrddgdmy  andgdmy 

'  Les  quatre  vaisaradyas  sont  enumeres  dans  la  Mahavyutpatti  §  8  et  dans  les 
Dictionnaires  num^riques  Kiao-tch'eng-fa  chou  (ed.  de  Tokyo,  vol.  xxxvii,  faso.  3^,  p.  74  vo) 
et  Ta  ming  san  ts'ang  fa  chou,  ib.  xxxvii,  fasc.  1,  p.  73  r°.  Ce  sont:  1"  I'intelligence 
directs  de  tous  les  dharmas :  sarvadharmabhisambodhivaiSaradya  — '  "BfJ  ^^ ;  2°  la 
connaissance  de  I'^puisement  de  tous  les  ^coulements :  aarvasravaksayajnana  v°  /E  ^  ; 
3°  I'analyse  decisive  de  la  condition  de  ne  pas  ^tre  autrement  pour  les  dharmas  d'obstaole : 
antarayikadharmananyathatvaniScitavyakarana  vo  gfr  Kb'  ^g  ;  4°  1' exactitude  de  I'intro- 
ductlon  au  moyen  de  sortir  pour  arriver  a  la  perfection  complete  (en  cbinois :  pour  mettre  fin 
aux  souffrances) :  sarvasampadadhigamaya  nairyanikapratipattathatva  v°  gfr  -M-  ^|t  >'^. 
—  On  remarquera  que  les  Chinois  ne  traduiseut  pas  litt^ralement  le  terme  vaiSaradya, 
lequel  signifie  en  Sanscrit  '  habilet6,  spScialement  acquise  par  I'experience '  ;  ils  lui  donnent 
pour  correspondant  I'expression  ^ffi  6/r  -S,  qui,  traduite  mot  a  mot,  signifie  :  '  il  n'y 
a  pas  lieu  de  craindre.'  Le  Dictionnaire  num6rique  Ta  ming  san  ts'ang  fa  cliou  justifie 
cette  Equivalence  par  un  passage  du  Ta  tche  tou  louen  ou  le  Bouddha  enum^re  les  quatre 
vaisaradyas  et  ajonte  k  propos  de  chacun  d'eux :  '  C'est  pourquoi  j'ai  obtenu  la  tranquillite, 
j'ai  obtenu  de  n'avoir  pas  lieu  de  craindre.' 


IN  CHINESE-KHOTANESE  898 

d'arhat  sont  purifies,  c'est  qu'il  n'y  a  la  ni  dualite,  ni  division  en  deux,  ni  separation, 
arhatpkala  vihiddhiS     c-'Advayam  etad  adiuidhlkdram  abhinnam 

ni  coupure. 
acchinnam  II 

0   Subhuti!    les  quatre    vaisaradyas  etant  purifife,  la   Bodhi   des    Pratyeka- 
Suhhute  vaiidradr/a  viiuddhyd  pratyekahuddhahodhi- 

buddhas  est  purifiee ;   la  Bodhi  des  Pratyekabuddhas  etant  purifiee,  la  qualite  de 
tihuldliih  I  pratyekahuddhabodhi  riSiiddhyd       sarvdkdrajnatd- 

science  d'omniscient  est  purifiee.     Pourquoi  cela?     Si  les  quatre  vaisaradyas  sont 
vuuddhir  iti  hi  vaimradyarUuddMs  ca 

purifies,  si  la  Bodhi   des   Pratyekabuddhas  est  purifiee,   si  la  qualite   de  science 
praiyekabuddJiabodhi  vimddhis  ca  sarvdkdrajhcddvisuddJnS 

d'omniscient  est  purifiee,  c'est  qu'il  n'y  a  la  ni  duality,  ni  division  en  deux,  ni 

c<-ddvayam   etad    advaidhlkdram 
separation,  ni  coupure. 
abhinnam     acchinnam  W 

0   Subhuti  1    les  quatre    vaisaradyas  etant  purifies,   la  conduite   de    tons   les 
SuhhUte  vaisdradyavimddhyd     sarvabodhisattva 

Bodhisattvas   Mahasattvas    est    purifiee ;    la    conduite    de    tous   les    Bodhisattvas 
Mahasattvacarydvirnddhih  I  sarvabodhimtlva 

Mahasattvas    etant    purifiee,    la    qualite    de    science    d'omniscient    est    purifiee. 
mahdsattva  caryavimddhyd  sarvdkdrajnatd  vikuldhir 

Pourquoi  cela  ?     Si  les  quatre   vaisaradyas  sont  purifies,   si   la   conduite  de  tous 
iti         hi  vai^dradyavihiddhii     ca 

les  Bodhisattvas    Mahasattvas   est  purifiee,  si  la  quality   de  science  d'omniscient 
mnabodhisattvamahdsattvacarydvduddhis  ca  sarvdkdrajnatdviiuddhis 

est  purifiee,  c'est  qu'il  n'y  a  R   ni  dualite,  ni  division  en   deux,  ni  separation, 
c-f-ddvayam  etad  advaidhlkdram  abhinnam 

ni  coupure. 

acchinnam  II 

0  Subhuti !  les  quatre  vaisaradyas  etant  purifies,  I'anuttara  samyak  sariibodhi 
Buhhate  vaiidradyavuuddhyd      sarvabuddhdnuttarasamyaksambodhi- 

de  tous  les  Buddhas  est  purifiee ;  I'anuttara  samyak  sambodhi  de  tous  les  Buddhas 
vimddhih  I  sarvabuddhdnuttarasamyaksambodhivihtddhyd 

etant  purifiee,  la  quality  de  science  d'omniscient  est  purifiee.     Pourquoi  cela  ?     Si 
sarvdkdrajnatdvihiddhir        iti      hi 

les  quatre  vaisaradyas  sont  purifies,   si  I'anuttara  samyak   sambodhi  de  tous   les 
vaimradyavimddhiS     ca     sarvabuddhdnuttarasamyaksai'iibodhivlsuddhis    ca 


394  A   BILINGUAL   FRAGMENT 

Buddhas  est  pvirifiee,  si  la  qualite  de  science  d' omniscient  est  purifiee,  c'est  qu'il  n'y 
sarvakdrajnatdvisuddhis  coddvayam 

a  la  ni  dualite,  ni  division  en  deux,  ni  separation,  ni  coupure. 

etad  advaidhlkdram  abhinnam     acchinnam  II 

Derechef,  o  Subhuti !    les  quatre  pratisamvids  ^  etant  purifiees,  la  forme  est 
Punar  aparam  Suhhute  pratisamvidvisuddkyd  rupavUuddhih  I 

purifiee ;    la  forme  etant  purifiee,  la  qualite  de  science  d'omniscient  est  purifiee. 
mpav  uuddhyd  sarvdkdrajna  tavUuddh  ir 

Pourquoi  cela  ?     Si  les  quatre  pratisamvids  sont  purifiees,  si  la  forme  est  purifiee, 

iii         hi  pratisaTkvidvUuddhis   ca  rupavMuddhis     ca 

si  la  quality  de  science  d'omniscient  est  purifiee,  c'est  qu'il  n'y  a  la  ni  duality, 
sarvdkdrajnatdvisuddhis  c^'Advayam  etad 

ni  division  en  deux,  ni  separation,  ni  coupure. 
advaidhlkdram  abhinnam       acchinnam  II 

Les   quatre   pratisamvids    etant    purifiees,    la    sensation,    la   designation,   les 
joratisamvidviSuddhyd  .  vedand  sarhjnd 

composants,  la  connaissance  sont  purifies. 
samskdra  vijhdna  vimddhih  I 

Satasahasrika  Prajnaparamita,  MS.  de  la  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  Dev.  74^^, 
3^  partie,  B  (volume  X  de  la  collection),  p.  228^ 

vaisaradyavisuddhya  rupavisuddhl  rupavisuddhya  sarvakarajnatavisuddhir  iti 
hi  vaisaradyavisuddhis  ca  rupavisuddhis  ca  sarvakarajiiatavisuddhis  c#advayam 
etad  advaidhikaram  abhinnam  acchinnam  1  vaisaradyavisuddhya  vedanavisuddhir 
vedanavisuddhya  sarvakarajnatavisuddhir  iti  hi  vaisaradyavisuddhis  ca  vedana- 
visuddhis  ca  sarvakarajnatavisuddhis  c«§,dvayam  etad  advaidhikaram  abhinnam 
acchinnam  I  vaisaradyavisuddhya  samjnavisuddhih  samjnavisuddhya  sarvakara- 
jnatavisuddhir iti  hi  vaisaradyavisuddhis  ca  samjnavisuddhis  ca  sarvakarajiiata- 
visuddhis c«advayam  etad  advaidhikaram  abhinnam  acchinnam  I  vaisaradyavisuddhya 
samskaravisuddhih  samskaravisuddhya  sarvakarajnatavisuddhir  iti  hi  vaisaradya- 
visuddhis ca  samskaravisuddhis  ca  sarvS.karajnatavisuddhis  c«advayam  etad  advaidhi- 
karam abhinnam  acchinnam  I  vaisaradyavisuddhya  vijnanavisuddhir  vijnana- 
visaddhya  sarvakarajnatavisuddhir  iti  hi  vaisaradyavisuddhis  ca  vijnanavisuddhis 
ca  sarvakarajnatavisuddhis  c^advayam  etad  advaidhikaram  abhinnam  acchinnam  I 

Nous  n'avons  pas  les  memes  raisons  que  les  pieux  scribes  de  la  Prajnaparamita 
pour  r^peter  indefiniment  la  meme  formule.  Elle  est  reproduite  encore,  mutatis 
mutandis,  avec  les   termes   caksuh,  hotra,  ghrdna,  jihvd,   manah ;    avec   rUpa,  ^abda, 

'  Pour  les  pratisamvids  et  lenrs  equivalents  chinois  nous  pouvons  nous  contenter  de 
renvoyer  a  I'article  d'Eitel,  Handbook  of  Chinese  Buddhism. 


IN  CHINESE-KHOTANESE  395 

gandha,  rasa,  sparm,  dJiarma ;  avec  cahmrvijndiia,  srotravij nana,  ghranavijhdna,  jihvd- 
vijndna,  kayavijndna,  manovijndna ;  avec  caksuhsarnqmrm,  h-otrasamsparsa,  ghrdna- 
samsparsa,  jihvdsamsjMrsa,  hdyasamsparia,  manahsamsparsa  ;  avec  caksuhsamsparSa- 
pratyayavedand,  irotrasamparmpratyayavedand,  ghrdnamth!<parmpratyayavedand,jihvd- 
samsparmpratyayavedand,  kdyasamsparSapratyayavedand,  manaJisamsparsapratyayave- 
dand. 

La  meme  serie  est  reprise  ensuite  avec  le  terms  pratisamvid  substitue  an  tevme 
vaimradya,  k  commencer  par  : 

pratisamvidvisuddhya  rupavisuddhi  rupavisuddhya  sarvakarajnatavisuddhir  iti 
hi  pratisamvidvisuddhis  ca  rupavisuddhis  ca  sarvakarajnatavisuddhis  e#advayam 
etad  advaidhikaram  abhinnam  acchinnam  II 

Tout  06  developpement  fait  partie  du  xxvi^  parivarta  de  la  Satasahasrika,  qui 
occupe  258  pages  du  manuscrit  de  la  Bibliotbeque  Nationale,  et  que  I'Astasabaarika 
resume  en  deux  pages  (185-187  de  I'ed.  de  la  Bibl.  Indica,  jusqu'a :  atha  khalv 
ayusman  SSriputro  bbagavantam  etad  avoeat  I  gambhira  bhagavan  Prajiiaparamita). 
Les  el6ments  de  nos  formules  sont  condenses  en  une  page  de  I'Astasahasrika  (viii^ 
parivarta,  pp.  186-87) : 

ya  Subhute  rupavisuddhih  sa  phalavisuddbih  ya  phalavisuddhih  sa  rupa- 
visuddhir  iti  bi  Subbute  rupavisuddhis  ca  phalavisuddhis  c^advayam  etad  advaidhi- 
karam abhinnam  acchinnam  iti  hi  Subhute  phalavisuddbito  rupavisuddhi  rupa- 
visuddhitah  phalavisuddhih  l  evam  vedanasamjnasamskarah  I  ya  Subhute  vijiiana- 
visuddhih  sa  phalavisuddhih  I  etc.  .  .  .  ut  sup. 

punar  aparam  Subhute  ya  rupavisuddhih  sa  sarvajnatavisuddhih  ya  sarva- 
jnatavisuddhih  sa  rupavisuddhir  iti  hi  Subhute  .  .  .  etc.  .  .  .  ut  sup. 


Reverse:    A   FRAGMENT   IN   KHOTANESE    OF   A   BUDDHIST 

SACRED   TEXT 

By  A.  F.  Rudolf  Hoeenle. 

The  Khotanese  text  of  the  fragment  is  written  in  the  cursive  type  (p.  xiv) 
of  the  Gupta  script.  There  are,  however,  some  peculiarities  in  the  present  case 
which  deserve  notice:  (1)  Ornate  forms  of  vowels,  or  other  marks,  occasionally 
alternate  with  the  ordinary  forms.  Thus  we  have  three  times  an  ornate  form  of 
a  in  kvd  1.  4,  svarh  1.  5,  atam  1.  13,  by  the  side  of  the  ordinary  form  of  that  type 
of  d  in  dmna  1.  4,  hvd  1.  8,  hd  and  yam  1.  10,  md  and  yam  1.  15,  jom  1.  16,  hd,  yam, 
pvd  1.  17,  ysdm  11.  18,  19,  ydm  1.  21.  Again  we  have  an  ornate  form  of  e  in  de  1.  3, 
e\.  6,  h  1.  8,  pve  and  ke  1.  9,  ttye  11.  17,  21,  by  the  side  of  the  ordinary  form  e  in  jsve 
1.  6,  me  1.  9,  svem  1.  16,  ^e  1.  18  ;  and  the  ordinary  forms  of  ai  in  drai  1.  7,  nai  1.  14, 


396  A  BILINGUAL  FRAGMENT 

jsai  and  mai  (corr.  ml)  ].  17,  as  well  as  of  aw  in  aw  1.  2,  i/snau  11.  3,  5,  13,  pau  1.  4 
i?yaz«  1.  6,  Aau  1.  7,  ?ia«  and  tii/au  1.  10,  «««;  1.  16.  With  ai  and  an  the  ornate  form 
never  occurs.  With  the  vocalic  double  dot,  tbe  ornate  form  of  «,  with  a  tailed 
second  dot,  is  far  more  common  than  the  simple  form.  Good  examples  of  the 
tailed  variety  are  na  11.  3,  21,  ysa  1.  4  ;  of  the  simple  variety,  da  \.  5,  ma  1.  7 ;  of 
both,  side  by  side,  diula  1.  8.  Sometimes  the  distinction  is  not  so  clearly  marked. 
The  ordinary  form  of  the  subscript  '  apostrophe '  (to  use  Professor  Leumann's 
term  in  Zur  nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur,  pp.  1,  58)  appears  here,  not  in  the 
form  of  an  inverted  are,  which  is  used,  e.  g.  in  the  calligraphic  script  of  the 
Khotanese  Vajracchedika  (Plate  V  in  ^  2  a',  kd  2  a",  &c.),  but  in  a  form  which 
closely  resembles  the  ordinary  Nagari  sign  of  avagraha;  e.g.  in  ha  11.  2,  4,  14,  18,  19, 
ka  1.  16,  jow  11.  16,  17.  But  once,  in  ie  1.  8,  it  occurs  in  an  ornate  form  which 
practically  duplicates  the  ordinary  form.^  It  may  be  added  that  the  long  u  is  made 
in  two  ways :  the  ordinary  form  is  seen,  e.  g.  in  ysH  and  mu  11.  4,  11 ;  but  a  second 
form  occurs  in  pyu  1.  12,  and  this  form  is  seen  exaggeratedly  in  ttu  11.  4,  9. 

(2)  The  well-known  difficulty  about  distinguishing  between  the  similar  signs 
for  t  and  n^  is  obviated  in  the  present  case  by  the  attachment  of  a  rightward 
slanting  stroke  to  the  left  limb  of  the  sign  for  t.  This  appendage  is  very  prominent 
in  talk  1.  13,  Ham  1.  18,  and  tiii  1.  21,  and  somewhat  less  so  in  sta  11.  2,  19,  ttau  1.  4, 
rrta  1.  7,  Ua  1.  8.  But  it  is  sufficiently  noticeable  even  in  tta  1.  14,  tr  1.  15,  and  Uye 
11.  17,  21. 

(3)  Interpunction  is  marked  in  two  ways :  either  by  the  usual  two  parallel 
vertical  bars,  as  in  11.  1,  3,  7,  8,  10,  14  ;  or  by  two  dots  disposed  in  the  form  of 
the  visarga,  as  in  11.  1,  12,  16,  18.  Once  the  two  signs  are  combined,  in  1.  14, 
where  the  double  dot  is  followed  by  the  double  bar  in  a  much  larger  and  ornate 
form,  apparently  in  order  to  mark  the  end  of  a  paragraph. 

With  regard  to  the  language  of  our  fragment,  the  alternations  in  the  manner 
of  spelling  two  words  also  deserve  notice.  We  have  the  alternatives,  halysa  11.  2 
(twice)  and  9,  and  haysa  11.  2,  4,  18  (thrice),  19.  Similarly  there  are  the  alter- 
natives aysmu  11.  16,  18,  and  aysamw  11.  4,  11.  Professor  Leumann,  in  his  Notes, 
points  out  that  these  alternative  spellings  point  to  two  stages  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  literary  language  of  Khotan,  an  older  represented  by  lalym  and  aysmu, 
and  a  younger  characterized  by  iaysa  and  aymmu.     The  elision  of  /  from  the  older 

'  The  question  of  the  interpretation  of  this  subscript  mark  is  fully  discussed  by 
-M.  Pelliot  in  Un  fragment  du  Suvarnaprabhasa  Sutra  en  Iranien  Oriental  (Paris,  1913), 
pp.  22  ff.  ■  . 

"  See  Professor  Stan  Konow's  '  Zwei  Handschriftenbliitter  in  der  alten  arischen 
Literatursprache  aus  Chiiiesisch-Turkistan '  in  Sitzungsberichte  der  Kg].  Preussischen 
Akademie  der  Wissenschaften,  vol.  xlix  (1912),  pp.  1129-30. 


IN   CHINESE-KHOTANESE  897 

form  of  the  word  halysa  is  marked  by  the  subscription  of  the  '  apostrophe ',  or  arc, 
below  the  syllable  lia.  For  a  fuller  treatment  of  this  subject  by  Professor  Leumann, 
his  dissertation  Zur  nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur  (Strassburg-,  1912), 
pp.  57-8,  may  be  consulted.  Our  manuscript  would  seem  to  be  referable  to 
a  period  when  the  spelling  usages  of  the  Khotanese  script  were  still  in  a  more  or 
less  unsettled  condition.  There  is,  however,  with  regard  to  the  use  of  that 
'  apostrophe '  mark,  some  laxity,  or  blunder,  in  the  usage  of  the  scribe  of  our 
Khotanese  text.  In  1.  2  it  is  wrongly  added  under  the  syllable  lal,  and  in  1.  17 
it  is  wrongly  omitted  under  the  syllable  pvcL  oi  pvdiid,  which  should  be  written 
pvana,  as  compared  with  jpvdra  in  the  same  line.  In  this  connexion,  also,  the 
merely  graphic  variation  of  bisa  1.  3,  and  bah  11.  5,  13, 16  may  be  noticed.  Also  the 
rare  occurrence  of  rr  in  the  superscript  position  may  be  noticed  in  varrtdmma  1.  7.  For 
another  instance  of  the  superscript  rr,  in  the  Saddharma-pundarlka,  see  pp.  142, 147. 

With  regard  to  the  execution  of  the  writing  in  our  fragment,  it  may  be  noticed 
that  it  is  occasionally  imperfect,  when  the  ink  did  not  take  sufficient  grip  of  the 
rough  surface  of  the  paper,  or  when  it  became  blotted  before  it  had  fully  dried. 
Thus  in  1.  1  the  downstroke  of  r  in  the  aksara  ru  of  the  first  druva  is  interrupted, 
as  compared  with  the  same  ru  in  the  second  druva.  Similarly  the  upper  portion  of 
the  initial  vowel  a  at  the  end  of  1.  3  has  not  formed.  In  1.  7,  varridi/tma,  the 
distinctive  slanting  stroke  of  the  left  limb  of  t  has  not  fully  formed.  On  the  other 
hand,  in  1.  1,  the  visarga  mark  of  interpunction  after  manci  has  become  wipied  into 
two  parallel  level  strokes.  Similarly,  in  1.  11,  the  first  of  the  double  dot  over  ysa 
has  been  wiped  into  a  stroke.  In  this  connexion  it  may  also  be  noted  that  the 
cancellation  of  a  letter  is  indicated  by  surrounding  it  with  a  circle  of  dots.  Thus 
at  the  end  of  1.  15,  a  badly  shaped  aksara  da  has  been  cancelled,  and  thereupon 
re-written  in  better  shape.  For  a  similar  practice,  in  the  Sanskrit  Vajracchedika, 
see  footnote  5  on  p.  179,  and  footnote  7  on  p.  182. 

TRANSCKIPT. 

1  aruva-jsa  mana  :  da  ariiva-jsa  [mana)  ii  xx 

[25]^ 

2  au  hastammyarii  balysana  balysaustam  ^   vara.?_^a   h^js,mxi{ria)'^aysmu 

upevdrd  ^ [20] 

^  The  bracketed  number  indicates  the  number  of  dots,  or  lost  aksaras. 
^  Read  balysuUam.  ^  Supplied  from  1.  18. 


398  A   BILINGUAL   FRAGMENT 

3  ((^)aihda  ide  ii  bi^amna  sarva-satvamna  uysnaurarhna  ax 

[23] 

4  {hva)nsi  rilsa  iipauttana  baysunana  *  aysamuna  khubura  aihna  ttu  .  .  .  . 

■ •" ^[21] 

5  svam  mana  ttam-buda  basamna  sarva-satvamna  uysnauramna  has[^]am 

X...." '...'. [21] 

6  {tam)  jsvena  manam  xxxe  x[7i]ilam  mi  ii  hi^yau  ^  maxau 

•■•' .••[25]    ■ 

7  [no]  varrtamma  ii  drai  padya  ttaradarana  tcahau  padya  (fea)|sarea  drai 

padya  aysmuna^ [12] 

8  [no)  ttaih  ^ena  tta  dadana  ruva ''  w  tta  hvana  rasa  khw^x 

T  .  .  .  .  [23]  ba- 

9  lysamna  darn  pveme  kena  ttu  parahi  nax 

...;....  [28] 

10  sam  11  mana  mahayarhnau  tyau  ^  sa  b(ud)[y]au  na  larh 

[28] 

11  aysamu  pana [29]  x  .  .  x 

taha  XX 
12 [32]  xna  pyusti  yanama : 

bax 
13     [17]  na  :  Buddha-dharma  ha  .  .  .  tadna  Itarii- 

mna  basa  sarva-satva  uysnaura 
14 [17]  {h)v{an)a  rasa  tta  maha  baysa  hima  mana  :  *  ii 

bija  pacZa  livanai  ii  cubum 
15 [15]  hvaf^gxya.^^  cu  vana  vasta  u  sa  .  .  .  namau 

gambhira  paramartha  tryarhni  (daj  ^^  da 

*  The  aksara  na  is  a  minute  interscript,  having  originally  been  omitted.  So 
also  the  double  dot  interpunction  in  1.  14. 

^  Perhaps  false  for  iUyau.     The  original  might  also  be  read  vlsyau. 

^  '  This  supplement  is  based  on  a  MS.  of  the  Avalokitesvara  Dharani  (5''"  — 
16'")  of  the  Petrovski  Collection.  The  sense  of  the  whole  context  could  be  surmised 
with  the  help  of  Mahavyutpatti,  No.  91 '  [L.].  See  also  Professor  Leumann's  Zur 
nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur,  p.  128,  11.  27  ff. 

''  The  original  might  also  be  read  ilva.  ^  Placed  below  the  line. 

'  Probably  read  tiyau.     The  original  might  also  be  read  nyau. 

'^°  hvaMya  restored  on  the  basis  of  the  verses  quoted  by  Professor  Leumann,  1.  c, 
p.  134,  1.  12.     So  also  Sau  nauhd  on  the  basis  of  ib.  p.  95,  1.  2.  ^^  Cancelled. 


IN   CHINESE-KHOTANESE  899 

16 [16]  [sa)xh  pyan] :  vasvemna  sam|<a«ana  s||au  ^^ 

nauha  na  aysmuna  ba^a  ustamiia  saka 
17 [15]  5aysa?ft|(na)TOaMyam  da  pvana  ttye  padariija 

jsaimi  ^^  ana  mara  maha  i  hada  p^Lra  pr& 
18 [21]  6a|ysumstam  sta  baysuna  aysmu 

upevara :  u  baysamna  baysz^^^amx 
19 [20]  6a|ysamna  baysusta  varastq  xax  uvara 

pram [7] 

20 [20]  rx  1'^  i  hada  samba  i 

.  .  .  [15] 
21 [21]  nl  vaiima  ttye-tta  drx 

[15] 

The  text  is  too  fragmentary  to  admit  of  any  consecutive  translation.  But  see 
the  Vocabulary  for  detached  translatable  phrases,  s.v.  ana,  blja,  bisa,  drai,  hastamma, 
namau,  pand,  p^Hsti,  Ua,  vasve. 

^^  Or  mai.  The  original  has  both  vowel  marks,  ai  as  well  as  ^  ;  the  latter 
apparently  correcting  the  former. 

^^  Only  the  superscript  r  of  a  ligature  survives. 


A   BILINGUAL    FRAGMENT    IN    TIBETAN- 

KHOTANESE 

Hoernle  MS.,  No.  143  a.     (Plate  XVII,  No.  2.) 

INTEODUCTORY   REMARKS 

By  a.  F.  Rudolf  Hoeenle. 

This  fragment  belongs  to  the  consignment,  marked  143  a,  forwarded  to 
me  from  Simla  in  January  1904.  In  the  forwarding  letter  it  was  stated  to  have 
been  '  obtained  from  Badruddin,  Aksakal  of  Khotan ',  and  to  have  been  found  in 
a  locality  not  specified,  but  '  certainly  somewhere  in  the  Takla  Makan,  not  very  far 
from  Khotan '. 

It  is  the  surviving  portion  of  an  inscribed  sheet  of  soft,  coarse  native  paper. 
On  the  obverse  the  lower  edge  cuts  through  a  line  of  Khotanese  writing,  showing 
that  the  lower  portion  of  the  sheet,  of  unknown  size,  is  lost.  The  surviving  portion 
is  practically  complete,  and  measures  263  x  170  mm.,  or  lOf  x  6^  inches.  The  only 
damage  which  it  has  suffered  is  a  small  hole  in  the  middle,  and  two  small  pieces 
torn  out  along  the  left  half  of  the  upper  edge.  Neither  damage  affects  the  Tibetan 
writing,  but  the  Khotanese  inscription  is  injured.  The  fact  that  the  hole  comes 
right  in  the  middle  of  the  fifth  line  of  the  Tibetan  writing  without  causing  any  loss, 
but  only  separating  the  two  syllables  of  the  word  ian-de,  shows  clearly  that  the 
memorandum  was  written  on  the  surviving  scrap  of  the  Khotanese  document. 

The  obverse  bears  a  document  written  in  the  Khotanese  lansruaa'e,  and  in 
Cursive  Gupta  characters.  On  the  reverse  there  is  inscribed  a  Tibetan  memorandum 
of  seven  lines,  in  what  is  known  as  the  U-ca7i  type. 

The  term  '  bilingual '  is  applied  to  this  fragment  with  a  like  reservation  to  that 
explained  on  p.  388  with  reference  to  the  Chinese-Khotanese  bilingual  fragment. 
Perhaps  eventually  the  Tibetan  Memorandum  may  turn  out  to  be  an  official  record 
of  the  execution  of  the  order  in  the  Khotanese  document. 

Obver.se :  A  KHOTANESE  DOCUMENT 

Edited  by  A.  F.  Rudolf  Hoeenle. 

This  document  is  written  in  the  Cursive  Gupta  script  of  the  ordinary  kind. 
The  on!}'  point  which  deserves  to  be  particularly  noted  is  the  shape  which  the 


A  TIBETAN  MEMORANDUM  401 

well-known,  double  dot  (see  p.  221)  takes  in  our  document.  It  is  never  made  in  the 
form  of  a  distinct  pair  of  dots,  but,  cuvsively  running  into  one,  it  occasionally  (seven 
times)  takes  the  shape  of  a  simple  arc  (as  in  lusiina,  1.  4),  but  more  commonly  (about 
twenty-six  times)  of  an  arc  indented  in  the  middle  and  sweeping  downwards  to  the 
rigbt  of  its  consonant  (as  \njsara,  1.  5).  In  both  shapes  it  may  be  seen  side  by  side 
in  stdmmdM,  1.  3.  Written  in  this  way,  it  is  not  uncommonly  found  in  cursively 
written  Khotanese  documents,  such  as  those  published  by  me  in  the  Journal  of  the 
Asiatic  Society  of  Bengal,  vols.  Ixvi  and  Ixx  (Extra  Number),  of  1897  and  1901.1 

It  may  be  added  that  the  shapes  of  the  subscript  '  apostrophe  '  (as  in  d§n,  1.  2), 
tbe  consonant  t  (as  in  bail,  1.  3),  and  the  interpunctional  vertical  double  dot  (at  the 
end  of  the  address  in  1.  1),  are  the  same  as  those  in  the  Chinese-Khotanese  bilingual 
fragment  (p.  395).  There  is  also  a  curious  horizontal  double  dot,  which  marks  the 
commencement  of  the  letter,  before  dnrl  in  1.  2. 

The  black  ink  of  the  writing  is  on  the  whole  very  well  preserved.  In  a  few 
places,  it  is  much  faded,  though  in  most  such  cases  the  intended  writing  is 
unmistakable.  These  faded  letters  are  marked  by  underlines  in  the  transcript. 
Crabbed,  and  hence  doubtfully  read,  letters  are  printed  in  italics. 

The  contents  of  the  fragment  is  a  Khotanese  pvlakii,  i.  e.  writing,  or  scrip 
(from  pidti,  written),  apparently  an  official  communication.^  Its  address  would  seem 
to  have  stood  in  the  mutilated  first  line  ;  and  it  seems  to  have  had  some  reference  to 
an  dsjrl  (Sanskrit  dcdryd)  or  Buddhist  monk,  called  Surendra.  But  its  general 
purport  is  not  yet  intelligible,  the  meaning  of  many  words  being  still  unknown,  and, 
in  fact,  in  some  cases  even  the  delimitation  of  a  word  being  uncertain.  Hence,  for 
the  present,  no  more  than  a  provisional  transcript  can  be  offered.  As  far  as  possible, 
however,  the  words  with  their  ascertained  or  suggested  meanings'^  have  been  included 
in  the  Vocabulary,  p.  405, 

TRANSCRIPT. 

1        rt.a  dd&iaii  \iv^stj\au       .  .  duijam  '. 

2  .  .  asiii  Sureiiidra 
ksi  a               hvastyau-puri  pa- 

'  In  these  early  publications  it  was  confounded  with  the  mark  of  the  vowel  o,  to 
which  it  is  not  unlike.  Its  identity  was  first  recognized  by  Prof.  Sten  Konow,  and  pointed 
out  in  JRAS.,  1914,  p.  341.  The  medial  vowel  o,  in  fact,  is  of  comparatively  very  rare 
occurrence  in  Khotanese.    A  similar  cur.sive  variety  is  the  tailed  double  dot,  see  p.  396. 

^  A  cursively  written  document,  published  in  my  Report  on  Central  Asian  Antiquities 
(in  JASB.,  vol.  Ixx,  Ex.  No.,  p.  37),  ends  with  the  statement:  si  pidaka  prammdih  hirad 
khu-ha  Brlydsi  u  Budasam  hamgnstd  vistdra,  i.  e.,  this  scrip  is  the  guarantee  with  respect 
to  which  Briyasi  and  Budasam  are  the  contracting  parties,  or  joint  signatories. 

*  For  some  of  these  I  am  indebted  to  the  kindly  help  of  Prof.  Sten  Konow. 

678  D   d 


402  A  TIBETAN  MEMOEANDUM 

3  dai  velaka  amna  auda  si-buri  uvaysi  bati-jsaiii  stariimaiia  gistai  u  pjjsu 

avaysai  himye  kva  drai  juiiina  ma  ttu  hasta  hvai 

4  yiki  *  drama  drama  aha  busana  sala  hve  cu  ptira  na-ni  ha  busida 

sarh  estyai  si  ksira  va|u  bada  sti  hvasf^/am 

5  ttarfi  gvavaiiina  ni  vistatai  vana  ttami  sali  binurhdara  tsuai  si  kira-va 

yanim  khu  pyariitsa-sta  jve  himi  cu-va  jsara  bvaudai 

6  ime  tvi  tvi  ti  vasta  hajsaudai  usam-pura  mara  ksirarhna  ja  sux[a]si'ri 

hiya  mijle  hiyau  sti  khu-va  binuihdara  arii- 

7  na  atu  vara  bisa  arhnai  byaudai  crrarii  ^  pa  hvaraih  dasta  rra  ni^ana-ye 

i  pa  ci  nisatai  ttj'e  mijle  vava  ttagu  ttyau-jsa 

8  jarhpha  prava  "  panata  n  parhtsai  bista  serya  thauna  Aajistada  u  sraMe ' 

a|iii-yi  viniN-a-bhatii  gvara  uate  pidaka 

9  paderhda  si  cu-va  praca  °  panamaiiide  aysi  hva  gvasci  ime  ranam  ttamdi 

drai  ktisa  gavaiii  hauryacia  u  drai  ktisa  mau  u  dau 

10  bistii  chaiii  u  si  nihfi  a^iri  viniya-bhata  ttagu  cJiam  hiri  nau  hauda  usarh- 

pura  Sudatta  lisiri  **  pura  iiaicTra  ^  sirye 

11  satcau  yasga  thauna   ttagu    nai   drai   thauna    ha^sa   staiiida   vaiia 

hvastyaihpura    vinau    mau    ksasta  cya    mau    hauda    stura  jsara 
ksii  "  kusa 

Reverse :  A  TIBETAN  MEMORANDUM. 

Edited  by  Lionel  D.  Baenett. 

The  text  of  the  Memorandum,  written  in  fairly  good  script  of  a  somewhat 

cursive  style  of  dhu-can  type,  runs  as  follows  : 

1   Orhciched     po    blon   rgyal    bzari    gp  ■  nam   noh  •  sa    mdzad-pahi- 
bag  ■  tsas  ■  gnis  ■  gyi    gla  ^  i 


*  Perhaps  yidi,  made.  °  Perhaps  cvam. 

*  Both  readings  seem  quite  clear  in  the  original ;  still  probably  in  both  lines  either 
prava  or  praca  must  be  read. 

'  With  the  exception  of  std,  all  the  letters  are  too  indistinct  to  be  read  with  any  con- 
fidence ;  perhaps  <la  and  sra  should  he  chci  and  bra. 

'  Here  spelt  without  the  suljsciipt  apostrophe. 

°  The  sfcond  aksara  has  a  quite  peculiar  shape  ;  (a  is  a  mere  conjecture. 

'"  Perhaps  led  or  ksl. 

^  gla  seems  to  lie  cancelled;  but  what  probably  happened  is  that  the  first  line 
originally  ended  with  the  interpunctional  bar  after  giji.  Afterwards  gla  was  added  across 
the  bar,  and  a  fresh  bar  inserted  after  gla,  which  means  '  wage',  and  is  an  integral  part  of 
the  sentence. 


A  TIBETAN  MEMORANDUM  403 

2  pan  •  de  •  clied  •  po  •  stagyi  •  rgyal  •  mtsan  •  gi  •  tshan  •  la  •  phab  •  pahi  i 

myiri  •  smral  i  ^  nas  ■  phul  • 

3  laii  •  liia  i  par  ■  mog  •  no  •  gehdra  •  sig  i  pan  •  de  •  no  •  gehdra  •  ^il  i 

ban  •  de  ■  nog  •  su  •  bol  • 

4  ban  •  de  •  galo  •  na  •  se  •  chi  i  ban  •  de  •  nog  •  rgyu  •  bad  ii  mar  •  6i  • 

kon  •  bah  i  ban  •  no  •  ga  •  chi  i  ban  •  de  • 

5  nog  •  6ur  •  dvaji  i  ban  •  de  •  no  •  gehdradra  i  ban  •  [hole]  de  •  yi  •  6a  • 

bad  I  tshe  •  ya  •  pah  |  \i  ■  suhe 

6  sa  •  tsadzugo  i  li  •  gutsag  i  li  sur  ^  •  dad  i  bog  ■  ma  •  rgyan  i  li  •  man  •  bod  i 

sdud  •  sna  .  pan  •  de 

7  nog  •  su  •  ber  za  *'  bsdu     ste  •  bul  ii 

TRANSLATION.' 

As  a  fee  [due]  from  fear  of  acting  culpably  against  the  mind  of  the  excellent 
High  JBlon  rgyal,  the  [following]  names,  having  been  clearly  set  forth,  were  entered 
at  the  office  of  the  Bande  the  High  sTag  gi  rgyal  intshan,  and  gifts  made  : — five  kine 
were  bestowed  upon  Bandes  severally,  viz.  Par  mog  no  gehdra  sig,  Bande  no  geMra  sil ; 
coats  and  caps,  having  been  collected,  were  presented  in  various  collections  to  Bandes 
severally,  viz.  Bande  galo  na  Se  chi,  Bande  nog  rgyu  bad.  Mar  Si  hon  hah.  Ban  no  ga  chi, 
Bande  nog  Sur  dvaji,  Bande  no  gehradra,  Bande  yi  Sa  lad,  Tsh  ya  iMh,  I/i  suhe,  Sa 
tsadzugo,  Li  gutsag,  Li  sur  dad.  Bog  ma  rgyan,  Li  man  hod. 

NOTES. 

The  circumstances  of  this  distribution  of  gifts  are  not  clear.  The  recipients 
may  be  either  officials  of  state  or  ecclesiastical  functionaries.  The  names  Blon  rgyal 
(Sanskrit  Mantri-raja)  and  sTag  gi  rgyal  intshan  (Sanskrit  Vydghradhvaja)  seem  to 
point  to  state  officers.  Possibly  the  circumstances  are  similar  to  those  mentioned 
in  the  Khotan  tablet  published  by  Professor  Rapson,  where  an  interpreter  of  dreams 
reports  that  further  offerings  of  cows  ai'e  necessary  to  propitiate  a  god  ^ ;  or  they 
may  be  proceedings  in  the  administration  of  a  garrison. 

^  The  iiiterpunctional  bar  is  inadvertently  drawn  through  the  following  n. 

'  Read  li  •  sur.  '  Read  her  •  za. 

^  I  have  to  acknowledge  with  gratitude  the  help  that  I  have  received  in  the  study  of 
this  document  from  the  Rev.  A.  H.  Francke.  Special  observations  by  Mr.  Francke  are 
marked  by  his  initials. 

*  See  '  Specimens  of  the  Kharosthi  Inscriptions  discovered  by  Dr.  Stein  at  Niya ' ; 
N.  iv.  136,  Large  Wedge,  1.  5  ;  in  the  Report  of  the  Fourteenth  International  Congress  of 
Orientalists  in  Algiers,  1905. 

Dd2 


4:04  A   TIBETAN   MEMORANDUM 

Line  1.  C'//eiI  po  is  apparently  the  classical  chen  jjo,  contaminated  with  the 
adjective  cJ/e  ha  and  the  substantive  checl ;  possibly  it  is  a  mere  error,  as  in  line  2  the 
(I  of  died  is  written  in  such  a  way  that  it  seems  half  altered  to  n. 

Noh  sa  mdzad  paM  is  for  the  literary  nohs  par  mdzad  paid  (A.  H.  F.), 

On  bag  fsas  see  Jaschke,  Dictionary,  p.  364.  ffNis  apparently  refers  to  the  two 
components  of  the  compound  word  baff  tsas  (A.  H.  F.). 

L.  2.  sjilral  is  either  for  si/in/s,  or  for  spral,  the  causative  of  hphral  la  ;  spral chas  is 
used  in  the  sense  of  '  distinct  enunciation '  (A.  H.  F.).  Possibly  smral  is  a  contamina- 
tion of  the  two  words  sim-a  and  spral.  A  like  difficulty  arises  in  line  3,  hoi,  which 
(unless  it  forms  part  of  a  name)  must  have  the  same  sense  as  bvl  in  line  7 ;  the 
vowel  0,  unless  it  is  a  mere  vulgarism,  suggests  contamination  of  hhul  ha  with  hhogs 
pa.  Perhaps  both  smral  and  bol  are  instances  of  purely  graphic  abbreviation  of 
compounds  such  as  smra  spral  and  hbogs  hhitl.  Myih,  the  modern  viih,  shows  the  same 
archaic  y  that  appears  consistently  before  i  and  e  in  the  fragments  and  inscriptions 
of  Endere  found  by  Sir  Aurel  Stein. 

L.  3.  Nog  evidently  has  the  meaning  of  mams,  but  etymologically  it  is  obscure. 
Is  it  possible  that  it  is  an  abbreviation — either  dialectal  or  merely  graphic — of 
sua  tsliogsl     Compare  the  Western  as  for  chos. 

L.  5.  The  vowel  in  the  syllable  li  in  all  the  four  cases  where  it  occurs  here  is 
denoted  by  the  ordinary  supralinear  vowel-sign  reversed,  in  the  same  form  as  is 
commonly  used  to  denote  the  vowel  sound  in  the  Sanskrit  ■^,  thus  ^.  This 
appears  to  indicate  a  peculiar  foreign  pronunciation  here,  and  I  have  accordingly 
marked  it  by  double  dots. 

Minor  dialectal  errors  similar  to  those  found  in  the  fragments  and  sgraffiti 
of  Endere  appear  in  gyi  for  gi  and  hji  (lines  1,  2),  mtsan  for  mtslian  (line  2),  lah  for 
glan  (line  3),  za  for  zra  and  bid  for  hhul  (line  7),  besides  the  varying  spellings  j;a«f/e 
and  baude. 


KHOTANESE  VOCABULARY 


By  a.  F.  Rudolf  Hoernle. 

{A  and  B  refer  to  the  Chinese-Kliotanese  and  Tibetan-Khotanese  fragments  respectively, 
and  the  numerals  to  lines.  K.  ^=  Prof.  Konow's  '  Zwei  Handschriftenhldtter  aus  Chinesisch- 
Turkistan'  in  Sitzungsher.,  Preuss.  Ahad.  d.  Wiss.,  1912,  ^;.  1127;  K?-=^Prof.  Konoio's 
'  Fragments  of  a  Buddhist  work,  in  Memoirs'  ASB.,  vol.  v,  p.  13  ;  ^.  Vac.  =  Prof.  Konow's 
Vocabulary,  ante,  p.  330 ;  L.  =  Prof.  Leumann's  '  Zur  nordarischen  Sprache  und  Literatur ' ; 
P.  =  M.  Pelliot's  '  Un  fragment  du  Suvarnai)rabhasasutra  en  Iranien  Oriental '  in  Etudes 
Linguistiques,  Fasc.  iv ;  R.  :=  Prof.  Eeichelt's  '  Das  Nordarische '  in  Indogermanisohes  Jahr- 
buch,  vol.  i,  1913  ;  Eep.  =  My  Report  on  the  British  Collection  of  Antiquities  from  Central 
Asia,  in  J  ASB.,  vol.  Ixx,  1901,  Ex.  No,;  S.  :=  Baron  von  Stael-Holstein's  '  Tocharisch 
imd  die  Sprache  I '.     The  references  are  to  pages  and  lines  in  these  pvMications.') 


aha,  B  4,  uncertain. 

ana,  sitting,  abiding,  A  17;  in  the  phrase 
ana  mara  maha  I  liada  p>vara,  staying 
here  from  me  on  this  day  tliey  hear :  also 
spelled  dmna,  A  4 ;  B  3,  6  ;  drimai,  B  7  ; 
K.  Voc. ;  L.  105^=;  but  ana,  K.^;  P.  116 
translates  '  ainsi '. 

ariiva,  loanword  from  Skr.  arupya,  Pali 
druppa  (Childers  58  a),  formless,  in- 
corporeal, A  1  (twice).     See  P.  100. 

asiri,  titular  designation  of  a  Buddhist  monk 
(syn.  Skr.  dcdrya),  B  2,  6,  10;  with  yl,  B  8. 

atammna,  A  13,  uncertain. 

atu,  B  7,  uncertain. 

auda,  till,  B  3  ;  K.  Voc. 

avaysai,  B  3,  uncertain. 

aysi,  1.  pers.  pron.,  I,  B  9  (i.e.  aysd  with 
end.  ?);  cf.  aysu,  K.  1133  ;  K.  MASB. 

aysmu,  mind,  thought  (syn.  Skr.  citta), 
nom.  sing,  aysmu,  A  18  ;  instr.  sing. 
aysmiina,  A  1 6 ;  also  spelled  aysdmu, 
A  11,  aysdmuna,  A  4.  See  drai, 
Imstamma,  ttdna,  vasve. 


bada,  time,  B  4  ;  K.  Voc. 
badua,  A  1 3  ;  perhaps  mutilated  for  ham- 
badna,  fully  (Skr.  sariibhrtena,  L.  48"). 


balysa,  later  baysa,  rendering  the  Skr. 
bhagavat,  the  blessed  one,  grand  one,  lofty 
one  (cf.  Skr.  brhai),  an  epithet  of  Buddha  ; 
nom.  plur.  baysa,  A  14  ;  gen.  plur.  baly- 
sdiiina,  A  9 ;  in  the  phrases  balysdmnd 
ddih  pveme  kena,  for  the  sake  of  hearing 
the  law  of  the  Blessed  Ones,  and  [bay- 
sdjii\nd  mahdydm  dd  jmdna,  to  be  heard 
is  the  law  of  the  Great  Vehicle  of  the 
Blessed  Ones.  For  a  full  discussion  of 
this  word  see  P.  109  fif. 

balysana,  A  2,  or  later  baysdna,  A  18,  19, 
der.  of  balysa  or  baysa,  always  preceding 
balymita,  A  2,  or  baysHsta,  A  18,  19  ; 
unless  it  be  a  clerical  error  for  balysdmna 
or  balysuna.     See  hastamyna. 

balysusta  (erroneously  balysdHka),  A  2,  or 
later  baysHsta,  A  18,  19,  or  baysuihsta, 
A  18,  der.  of  balysa  or  baysa,  grandness, 
loftiness  (cf.  Skr.  brhattva).   See  hastayhma. 

basa,  speech  (cf.  Skr.  vacas),  instr.  sing. 
bdsdma,  A  7.     See  drai, 

bati,  B  3,  uncertain. 

baysuSa,  der.  of  baysa  {balysa,  q.v.), 
belonging  to  a  grand  one ;  ace.  sing. 
baysUfia,  A  18  ;  instr.  sing.  baysUfidna, 
A  2,  or  baysUmnd^nal,  A  2.  Seehastamma. 

bija,  second  (cf.  Skr.  dvitlya,  Prak.  biijja), 
second,  A  14.     In  the  phrase  bija  padd 


406 


KHOTANESE   VOCABULAKY 


hvanai,  to  be  said  a  second  time,  or  in 
another  way. 

binuihdara,  B  5,  6,  uncertain. 

bisa,  all,  B  7 ;  gen.  plur.  bisdmnd,  A  3  ; 
instr.  plur.  visyau,  A  6,  where  the  original 
text  apparently  has  hisyau  or  msyau  ;  also 
spelled  hdsa,  nom.  or  obi.  hasd,  A  13,  16, 
gen.  plur.  ha^amnd,  A  5 ;  in  the  phrase 
biMmnd  (A  3,  or  hdidi'nnu,  A  5)  sarva- 
satvdmnd  uysnaurdmnd,  of  all  beings, 
(i.  e.)  of  all  human  beings. 

bista,  twenty,  B  8  ;  bistd,  BIO. 

bti^a,  much,  many,  apparently  the  same  as 
bura,  q.v. ;  comparative  budard,  K.  Voc, 
budaru,  K.^  1134,  K.'' {Skr.  bahutar a)  ; 
in  ttam-buda  (=  ttdmbura,  Skr.  tdvat),  so 
much,  so  long,  A  5 ;  plur.  instr.  bvdyau{1), 
A19. 

Buddha,  Buddha,  A  13,  with  dharma,  q.v. 

bura,  much,  many,  implying  quantity, 
affixed  to  pronouns  Ichu,  cu,  si,  q.v. 

busana,  B  4  ;  btts'idd,  B  4,  apparently  a  3. 
plur.  pres.  with  sam,  as  in  Ida  smh,  p.  274, 
42  a" ;  uncertain. 

byaudai,  found,  obtained,  B  5,  7  ;  K.  Voc, 


chain,  B  10,  uncertain. 

ci,  conj.,  if,  B  7 ;  K.  Yoc. 

crram,  rel.  pron. ;  cf.  crrd  K.  Voc,  crrdmd 

K.^  27. 
CU,    relative-interrogative    pronoun,    who, 

which;    cu,  A  15;  cu-bura,  quantitative 

(Skr.  ya,vat),  as  much,  as  many,  nom.  sing. 

cuburd,  A  14  ;  cu-va,  B  5  ;  cu-va,  B  9. 


da,  law,  religion  (Skr.  dharma);  nom.  sing. 

da,  A  1,    15,    17;    perhaps   dam,  A  9: 

see  balysa. 
dadaua,  A  8 ;  perhaps  connected  with  di, 

or    da,    to    see ;    with   ruvd,   figure ;    cf. 

K.Voc,  L.  105^  119'«- 
damda,  A  3,  uncertain  ;  perhaps  incomplete 

xddmdd. 
dasta,  hand,  B  7. 
dau,  IB  9,  uncertain. 


dharma,  loanword  from  Skr.  dharma,  law, 
religion,  A  13,  with  buddha,  the  Law  of 
Buddha.     See  dd. 

drai,  three,  with  jumna,  threefold,  B  3 ; 
with  husa,  three  drums,  B  9,  10;  with 
iAawna,  three  garments,  B  1 1 ;  ■wlih.  padya, 
three  ways,  A  7;  in  the  phrase  drai  fadya 
ttaradardna  tcahau  padya  bdidma  drai 
padya  aysmuna,  in  three  ways  by  the 
body,  in  four  ways  by  speech,  in  three 
ways  by  the  mind.  See  Mahavyutpatti, 
No.  91.  Cf.  drrai,  K.  Voc,  P.  35,  L.  119  ; 
K.^28. 

drama,  drachme  (]),  B  4,  reduplicated 
distributively. 

E 

estyai  (with  si),  B  4,  uncertain. 

G 

gaihbhira,  loanword  from  Skr.  gambhlra, 

profound,   nom.    sing,    gambhlra,    A  15. 

See  namau, 
gavam,  B  9,  uncertain. 
gistai,    B  3,   uncertain ;    perhaps   a   past 

part.,  cf.  K.  Voc.  gitti. 
gvara,  B  8,  uncertain ;    also  in  Eep.  37, 

doc.  1,  11.  4,  11. 
gvasci,   B  9,  uncertain ;   also  in  Eep.  38, 

doc  5,  1.  3. 
gvavaiiina,  apparently  gen.  plur.  of  gvava, 

B  5,  uncertain. 


ha,  B  4  ;  /i«,  B  10  ;  emph.  or  expl.  particle. 

hada,  day,  A  17,  20.     See  ana. 

hajsaudai,  B  6,  uncertain. 

hasta,  elephant,  B  3  ;  K."  1135. 

hastamma  (usually  hastama,  Skr.  sattama), 
best,  excellent ;  ace.  sing.  fem.  hastam- 
myarh,  A  2,  5,  qualifying  balysuita  ;  in 
the  phrase  hastammyam  balysdna  baly- 
sustam  vardstd  baysumnd  aysmii  upevdrd, 
'they  give  rise  to  the  grand  thought  of 
attaining  the  excellent  grandness  of  the 
Grand  Ones  (Buddhas),'  repeated  in  A  1 8 
with  std  for  vardMd.  See  L.  94''  95°  96', 
K.Mi35,  K."  30  •  cf.  instr.  sing.  fem. 
hastairiTnina  {kHsina),  P.  9. 


KHOTANESE  VOCABULARY 


407 


hatca,  together  with,  B  1 1 ;  apparently  the 
same  as  hamtsa. 

hauda,  past  part.,  given,  B  10,  11; 
hauryada,  B  9  ;  cf.  K.  Voc.  liaur. 

himi,  3.  sing.  pres.  of  subst.  verb  hima  or 
hdmd,  is,  B  5 ;  himye,  3.  sing,  past,  was, 
B  3 ;  perhaps  also  hima,  A  14;  also 
Eep.  37,  doc.  1,1.  10. 

hiri,  thing  (?),  B  10,  cf.  L.  54°,  P.  13,  14. 

Mya,  belonging  to,  B  6  ;  hiyau,  B  6  ;  cf. 
K.  Voc.  hlvl. 

kvan,  to  say,  declare ;  2.  sing.  imp.  Jivdna, 
say !,  A  4,  8,  1 4,  always  with  rdsci ; 
3.  sing,  opt.  hvahlya,  he  may  declare,  A15; 
see  L.  134";  fut.  pass.  part,  hvanai,  to 
be  said,  A  1 4 ;  see  hija.  Perhaps  con- 
nected with  it,  hva,  B  9  ;  hvai,  B  3  ;  hve, 
B4. 

hvaram,  dexter,  B  7. 

livastyam,  B  4,  11;  hvdstyau,  B  2 ;  with 
purd,  perhaps  pr.  n. ;  of.  hvdstd,  K.^  1135, 
K.Voc,  K.^  31. 


1,  obi.  form  of  3.  pers.  or  dem.  pron.  sa, 
of.  L.  63*";  as  loc.  sg.,  in  this,  A  17,  20, 
B  7.     See  ana. 

ime,  perhaps  1.  sing.  pres.  of  verb  subst. 
ah,  I  am,  B  6  ;  ime,  B  9,  cf.  L.  1 16" ;  Ide, 
3.  plur.  pres.,  they  are,  A  3.  See  K.  Voc, 
P.  98,  101. 

J 

ja,  end.,  B  6  ;    ,ji,  B  7 ;  ju  (in  jve),  B  5  ; 

cf.  L.  114«•^  Eep.  37,  doc.  1,1.  10. 
jampha,  B  8,  uncertain;  also  in  Eep.  37, 

doc.  1,  1.  10. 
jsa,  obi.  post-position,  A  1,  B  7 ;  jsaiii,  B  3  ; 

K.  Voc. 
jsaimi,  A  17,  uncertain. 
jsara,  3.  pi.  pres.  of  jsd,  they  go  (?),  B  5, 

11  ;  also  in  Eep.  37,  doc.  1,  1.  5  ;  cf.  K. 

Yoc,  jsd;  L.  133". 
jsvena,  A  6,  uncertain ;  cf.  jsvdka,  K.  Voc. 
jumna,  time,   fold  (with  drai),  B   3 ;    cf. 

L.  52'^ 


kena,  for  the  sake  of,  A  9 ;  cf.  kina,  kidna, 


kadcna  (Skr.  kHena)  ;  K.  Voc,  L.  134'"*. 

On   the  vocalic   changes,  cf.  L.   117'"'-'^ 

K.  Voc,  ttdtdna,  ttdtina,  ttdtena. 
khu,  as,  liovv,  B  5  ;  khu-vd,  B  6 ;  khu-lura 

(Skr.  kiyat,  ydvat),  how  many,  as  many, 

nom.  sg.  khuburd,  A  4,  (8  1). 
kira,  work,  B  5 ;  cf.  L.  71=^';  E.  23  ;  K.^ 

32. 
ksa  (or  ksi),  six,  with   kusa,  six   drums, 

B  11  ;  perhaps  ksi,  with  end.  I,  B  2,  11; 

cf.  K.'  1136  ksai'. 
ksasta,  sixty,  B  11  ;  cf.  S.  484. 
ksira,    land,   B  5 ;   gen.   plur.   ksirdmna, 

'B6;  cf  L.  113°;  K.^  33. 
kusa,  drum,  B  9  {bis),  11  ;  cf.  S.  483,  P.  105. 

M 

maha,  obi.  form  of  1.  pers.  pron.,  from  me, 
A  14,  17;  cf.  muhu  or  muhum  {jsa), 
K.  Voc     See  ana. 

mahayamua,  loanword  from  Skr.  malid- 
ydna,  the  Great  Vehicle  (of  Buddhist 
doctrine),  instr.-abl.  plur.  mahdydmnau, 
A  10  (for  mahdydmnyau) ;  also  apoco- 
pated mahdydm,  A  17;  see  balysa. 

mana,  emphatic  particle,  A  1  ibis),  5,  10, 
14.     Cf.  mani,  K.  Voc. 

mafiaih,  A  6,  uncertain ;  K.  Voc. 

mara,  adv.,  here,  A  17,  B  6;  cf.  Eep.  38, 
doc.  5,  1.  2,  K.^  33.    See  dna. 

mau,  B  9,  11  (62s),  uncertain. 

mi,  obi.  form  of  1.  pers.  pron.  (?),  A  6; 
spelled  md,  L.  65'^  K.  Voc. 

mijle,  B  6,  7,  uncertain. 

N 

na,  emph.  particle,  even,  A  14 ;  perhaps  B  4. 
See  vasve. 

namau,  loanword  from  Sansk.  namo,  hail !, 
A  15;  in  the  phrase  namau  ganibhird 
param,drthd  trydmnt  da,  hail  to  the  pro- 
found highest  truth,  to  the  law  of  the  three 
Vehicles. 

nate,  3.  sing.  perf.  of  nd,  he  has  obtained, 
B8;  cf.  L.  116^",  120^'. 

nauha,  moment  (syu.  Skr.  muhurta) ;  obi. 
nauhd,  A  16,  or  perhaps  instr.  nauhdna, 


408 


KHOTANESE  VOCABULARY 


in  the  phrase  sau  nauhd,  in  one  moment, 

as  in  L.  95^  cf.  ib.  89',  93",  94i'-     See 

rasve. 
ni,  neg.  particle,   not,  B  5,  (with  M)  B  4, 

(with  ha)  B  10;  nai,  B  11  ;  or  perhaps 

emph.  or  interrog. ;  cf.  K.  Yoc. 
nisana,  B  7  ;  nisdtai,  B  7  ;  apparently  fut. 

and    past    part,   of  ni^d,  uncertain ;    cf. 

L.  7V'«. 

P 

pa,  foot,  B  7  ;  K.  Yoc;  R.  24. 

pada,  way,  manner,  or  time;  obi.  sing. 
padd,  A  14,  see  hlja;  obi.  plur.  padiya., 
A  7,  see  drai. 

padai,  B2,  uncertain. 

padaiiija,  perhaps  relating  to,  connected 
with,  A  17,  in  the  phrase  ttye  fadamja, 
connected  therewith.  Cf.  padamgya, 
K}  1136  (L.  52'''),  K.234. 

pademdi,  B  9,  uncertain;  cf.  L.  102" 
padlnde. 

pajsTi,  B  3,  uncertain. 

pamtsai,  in  front,  B  8,  with  I  end. ;  cf. 
K.  Voc. 

paua,  fragment  of  a  word  meaning  '  giving 
rise  to ',  in  the  phrase  aysdnxu  pand, 
giving  rise  to  the  thought,  All. 

panata,  he  arose,  B  8  ;  panamdihde,  they 
arise  (?),  B  9;  cf.  L.  122';  K.2  35. 

paraha,  virtue,  piety  (syn.  Skr.  sila),  obi. 
fiing.  par dhi,  A  9.  See  L.  6'',  122"  ;  K. 
-M.ASB. 

paramartha,  loanword  from  Skr.  2)ara- 
mdrthaka,  greatly  significant,  containing 
the  highest  truth,  obi.  sing.  2Mranidrthd, 
A  15.     See  namau. 

pidaka,  scrip,  document,  B  8  ;  also  in 
Rep.  36,  doc.  1,1.  1 ;  from  pldd,  written, 
L.  134". 

praca,  B  9,  or  pravd,  B  8,  with  2Jana°,  un- 
certain. 

pura,  son,  B  4,  6,  10  {bis);  2>'uri,  B  2. 

pvana  (corr.  pvand),  part.  fut.  pass,  of  the 
verb  ^J2/!ts,  to  be  heard,  A  1 7,  see  halysa ; 
3.  plur.  pres.  pmdrd,  they  hear,  A  16,  17, 
see  ana ;  part,  past  pass,  pyusti,  heard, 
A  12,  in  the  phrase  pyusti  yandmd, 
we  make  (it)  heard.    See  P.  1 18,  K.''  36. 

p^vara,  see  pvdnd. 


pveme  (corr.  pvemne  V),  abstr.  noun,  hearing, 
A  9  ;  see  halysa.  Cf.  pvma,  P.  98,  and 
pvdma,  K.  Voc. 

pyamtsa-sta,  in  future,  B  5  ;  also  in  Rep. 
36,  doc.  'i,  1.  3  ;  cf.  K.  Voc. 

pyusti,  see  pvdnd. 

n 

rana,    .jewel,   gen.   pi.,    randm,   B  9 ;    cf. 

L.  SO''',  K.  Voc.  ramna,  P.  114. 
rasa,  A  4,  8,  14,  uncertain;  always  after 

hvdna,  q.v. ;    apparently  a  vocative,  for 

rasa,  cf.  K.  Introd.,  ante.  p.  233. 
rra,  king  (?),  B  7. 
ruva,     loanword    from     Skr.    riipa,    form, 

figure ;    ace.  sing,  ruvd,  A   8  ;    K.  Voc, 

P.  117. 

S 

sa,  emph.  particle  (?),  A  10. 

saka,  A  16,  uncertain. 

sala,  year,  B  4  ;  sali,  B  5. 

sam,  with  busldd,  B  4 ;  cf.  K.  Voc. 

samba,  A  20,  uncertain. 

sampura,  B  6,  10,  pr.  n.  {1).  See  usampurd. 

sariitana,  loanword  from  Skr.  samtdna, 
continuous  train  of  thought,  instr,  sing. 
samtdndna,  A  15.  The  reading  is  un- 
certain though  the  tail  of  t  is  just  visible. 
See  vasve. 

sarva,  loanword  from  Skr.  sarva,  all,  always 
with  satva,  q.v. 

satcau,  B  11,  uncertain. 

satva,  loanword  from  Slvv.  sattva,  a  being, 
nom.  plur.  satva,  A  13;  gen.  plur.  sat- 
vdiiind,  A  3,  5 ;  always  with  sarva,  and 
tautologically  with  Mm  uysnaura.  See 
biia. 

sau,  numeral  one,  A  16,  with  nauha,  q.v. 

sgna,  A  8,  uncertain ;  perhaps  connected 
with  ii,  second,  other ;  K.  Voc,  L,  1 35-''^' 

serya,  B  8,  uncertain,  in  serya-thawna, 
perhaps  under-garment,  cf.  Pers.  zer. 

si,  dem.  pron.,  this,  that,  B  1 0  ;  in  si-huri, 

""^  that  much,  B  3.  " 

si,  after  a  verbal  form  (?),  B  4,  5,  9  ;  cf. 
P.  117. 

sirye,  good  (1),  B  10 ;  cf.  K.  Voc.  sird, 
P.  101  iirye. 


KHOTANESE  VOCABULAEY 


409 


sta,  B  7  ;  sti,  B  6 ;  stadci,  B  8 ;  stamdd, 
B  11 ;  forms  of  auxil.  verb. 

sta,  standing  (upon),  consisting  (in),  B  5, 
1 1  ;  sti,  B  4  ;  sta,  A  1 8,  with  haymm- 
stdm,  q.v.     See  hastarhma. 

stamraana,  B  3 ;  loc.  sing,  of  stuma,  stand- 
ing, condition  (1  Skr.  sthiti). 

stur'a,  B  11,  uncertain. 

Sudatta,  BIO,  proper  name. 

Sureiiidra,  B  2,  proper  name. 

T 

teahau,  numeral  four,  A  7,  short  for  tca- 
haura.    Cf.  K.  25.     See  drai. 

thauna,  garment,  B  8,  11  (bis);  cf.  L.  134'''; 
R.  23,  30 ;  see  Rep.  38,  doc.  5,  1.  2  ; 
£emmind  thauna,  woollen  cloth  (Pers. 
paslirmna). 

ti,  emph.,  B  6,  cf.  L.  107"-". 

tryaiimi,  loanword  from  Skr.  tri-ydnika, 
consisting  of  three  Vehicles,  A  15  ;  K.Yoc. 
See  namau. 

tsuai,  he  went  (with  emph.  i),  B  5  ;  cf. 
P.  122;  E.  25. 

tta,  this,  that,   oblique  form  of  the    dem. 
pron.  sa ;  with  l  end.  tvl,  B  5,  cf.  L.  64'^ 
aco.    sing.    masc.   iiu,  B  3  ;  itu,  A  4,  9 
nom.-aoc.    sing.  neut.  tta,  A  8  {bis),  14 
also  adverbially,  thus  (Skr.  evam) ;    instr. 
sing.  masc. -neut.  ttana,  A  4,  in  the  phrase 
ttdna     baysuiidna     aysdmuna     khuburd 
dmna   ttu,  with    that  grand  thought  as 
many  as  being  that  .  .  . ;  loo.  sing,  ttdmi, 
B   5(1);    gen.-loc.   sing,    ttye,  A   17,   21, 
B  7  ;  ace.  plur.  ttd,  A  21;  instr.  plur.  ttyau, 
A  10,  B  7  ;  gen.  plur.  ttdm,  A  5,  B  5. 

ttagu,  B  7,  10,  11,  uncertain. 

ttaradara,  body;  instr.  sing,  ttaradardna, 
A  7.     See  drai. 

U 

u, 'and,  B3,  7,  8,  9,  10. 

upau,  A  4,  uncertain;  perhaps  separately 

u  pau. 
upevara,  3.  plur.  pres.  of  verb  upev,  they 

give  rise  to,  A  18;  L.  108''.      See /ia«- 

tamma. 
u^ampura  (?) ;  see  sampura. 


ustaiiifia,  der.  from  usta,  birth  (syn.  Skr. 
jdti),  A  16  ;  K.  Voc.     See  vasve. 

uvara,  loanword  from  Skr.  uddra,  exalted, 
A  19.     SeeP.  97,  98. 

uvaysi,  B  3,  uncertain. 

uysnaura,  a  human  being,  nom.  plur. 
iiysiiaura,  A  13  (constructed  with  sing. 
bdsd,  hence  read  either  bdid  uysnaurd,  or 
bdsa  uysnaura) ;  gen.  plur.  uysnaurdmnd, 
A  3,  5.     See  bisa.     Cf.  K.Voc,  P.  121. 

vana,  here,  A  15  ;  B  5,  1 1  ;  K.  Voc. 

vara,  there,  B  7;  cf.  Eep.  37,  doc.  1,  1.  9, 
doc.  5,  11.  1,  2. 

varasta,  what  is  attained,  attainment ; 
obi.  vardstd,  A  2,  19.  From  the  verb 
vardS,  to  attain,  K.  Voc.     See  hastarhma. 

varrtaiiima,  apparently  1.  sing.  pres.  of  an 
uncertain  verb,  A  7. 

vasta,  loanword  from  Skr.  vastu,  thing,  A 1 9 ; 
but  reading  uncertain ;  perhaps  vasva. 

vasta,  3.  sing.  pres.  of  verb  vds,  he  reads, 
A  15. 

vasta,  B  6,  uncertain. 

vasUj  bad,  B  4 ;  K.  Voc. 

vasve,  pure,  instr.  sing,  vasvemna,  A  16,  in 
the  phrase  vasvemna  sam\tdndna  s'^au 
nauhd  na  aysmuna  bdsd  ustarhiid,  with 
pure  sustained  contemplation  even  for  one 
moment  with  (his)  mind  in  all  births. 

vava,  B  7,  uncertain. 

velaka,  B  3,  perhaps  pr.  n.  of  looahty. 

vinau,  Vinaya  or  without  (?),  B  1 1  ;  cf. 
L.  66",  43"';  K.-  1139  vinai. 

viniya-bhata,  loanword  from  Skr.  vaineya- 
bhrti,  maintenance  of  one  who  may  become 
a  convert,  of  an  '  enquirer ',  B  8,  10  ;  cf. 
Dvy.  36^'  vaineya-prdbhrta. 

visyau,  see  s.v.  bisa. 

Y 

yanim,  1.   sing.  pres.  of  verb   yan,   I  do, 

B  5  ;  yanama,  1.  plur.  pres.,  we  do,  A  12  ; 

see  s.v.  pvdnd. 
yamna,  loanword  from  Skr.  ydna,  vehicle, 

A  21. 
yasga,  B  11,  uncertain. 
ye,  end.  particle,  B  7  ;  2/i,  B  8  ;  cf.  K.Voc. 

ye. 


LIST  OF  ADDENDA 

p.  23,  1.  8,  Add  :  'see  also  Digha  Nikaya,  Text,  vol.  i,  p.  37,  Translation 
{Dialogues  of  the  Buddha),  pp.  50  ff.' 

P.  34, 1.  27,  in  stanza  5,  read  :  '  Blameless  One  '  for  '  (wHte)  elephant '.  Also 
cancel  footnote  9,  and  substitute  as  follows  : — 

^  Ndga,  blameless.  Its  etymology,  as  a  compound  of  na  and  dgas,  is  explained 
in  tbe  Sutta  Nipata  (PTS.  ed.,p.  96),  wbere  verse  518  asks  ndgo  ti  kaiham  pavuccati, 
'  why  is  he  [Buddha]  called  ndga ',  and  verse  522  replies  agum  na  karoti  kind  loke, 
ndgo  tfidi  pavuccate  tatkattd,  '  he  commits  nothing  blameable,  for  that  reason  such 
a  one  is  called  tidga '.  The  form  ndga,  for  ndgas,  is  analogous  to,  e.  g.,  Mrga^ira, 
a  by-form  of  Mrgasiras,  &c. ;  and  the  form  dgum,  in  verse  522,  is  analogous  to,  e.  g., 
Pali  sajju  for  Sanskrit  sadyas,  &c.  (see  Professor  Miiller's  Pali  Grammar,  p.  6).  In 
early  Buddhist  writings  the  word  is  not  infrequently  used  as  an  epithet  of  Buddha 
and  his  bhiksus.  Thus  it  occurs  five  times  in  the  Sutta  Nipata,  in  verses  421,  518, 
522,  573, 1058,  and  in  the  Patimokka  xiii  (as  quoted  in  P.  Dy.,  p.  255),  &c.  In  the 
latter  place,  Childers  translates  '  chief  ;  so  also  Fausboll  in  verse  421  (see  SBE.  x. 
68),  but  there  the  correct  translation  is,  '  I  [the  King  who  speaks],  adorning  the 
army-house,  will  [there]  give  [thee,  i.  e.  Buddha]  at  the  head  of  the  congregation  of 
[thy]  Blameless  Ones  (i.  e.  the  bhiksus)  wealth '  (ndga-samgha-purakkhato).  The 
other  word  ndga,  'elephant ',  is  used  as  an  epithet  in  the  sense  of  '  eminent ',  but,  in 
that  ease,  always  at  the  end  of  a  compound ;  see  Amarakosa,  kh.  iii,  si.  59,  nttara- 
pade  iresthdrtha-gocarah  ;  so  also  the  Sabdakalpadruma,  quoting  the  Medinikosa.  In 
the  Buddhist  acceptation,  the  word  ndga  does  not  appear  to  be  noticed  in  any  Sanskrit 
kosa  or  dictionary. 

P.  35,  footnote  12,  add  the  reference  Sutta  Nipata  (PTS.  new  ed.),  verses  518 
and  521. 

P.  203,  between  the  entries  ndga  and  ndda  insert  '  Naga,  Blameless  One,  an 
epithet  of  Buddha,  H.  6  a"'.' 

Contributed  by  De.  Thomas. 

Pp.  88—92.  I  have  succeeded  in  tracing  this  passage  in  the  Tibetan  Bkah-hgyur 
(Mdo.,vol.^  (X),  foil.  1-115,  of  the  India  Ofl&ce  copy),  where  the  work  is  entitled 

Pratyutpanna^buddha-sammukha-avasthita-samadhi-nama-mahayana-sutra,  though 
the  colophons,  all  except  the  last,  present  the  title  Bhadrapala-pariprccha-samadhi. 
The  passage  occurs  on  fols.  65  ^"'-68  a''',  in  chapter  {lehu)  14,  entitled  Dharma- 
bhanaka  :  there  is  also  a  division  into  lam  -po'a  of  which  No.  4  contains  the  passage. 
The  first  part  of  the  text  is  much  fuller  in  the  Tibetan,  so  that  it  is  not  practicable 
to  cite  all  the  divergences.  The  following  points  of  reading  may  be  noted  : — 
Obv.  11.  6—7  ;  kah  pruvddo  (sic) :  amos  ■  kyah  •  ci  •  dgos. 

1.  8,  probably  read  ekd  for  enu,  and  translate  'like  taking  one  from  the 

sands  of  the  Ganges'. — Corah  ior  ghordh,  'him  thieves  injure  not'. 
1.  9,  nard  na  hetheatt  pradiista-ciftd  in  place  of  na  snkaro. 
1.  lQ,prdvarita  bhavet  is  rendered  hjitg  lyed,  '  set  on  foot '. 
Rev.  1.  1,  VKsautas  ie  iasya  aranye  gatasya  sahdyatdm  sevam  ca  kurvanti.    5  Yaksdh 
pimcdli  tejohdrinah  bhaydnakdh. 

I.  2,  jih)iid=spa-yah  hgoh,  'jealous'. — bhaved  vipannam. — A^a  karnarogo  na 

cii,  kdyaroguH  ca. 

II.  3,  4,  yasyazsa,  &e.,  as  in  1.  2,  om.  kestham  and  sdnidm^. 


LIST  OF  ADDENDA  411 

Rev.  1.  4,  Translate  (verse  9) :  '  Devas,  Nagas,  Kusmandas,  Asuras,  Mahoragas 
protect  him  ;  even  the  wicked  have  faith  in  him  '. 

11.  4-5,  5-6,  6-7,  '  who,  knowing  by  heart,  teaches  to  others '. 

1.  7,  tatlid  for  atlia. — '  In  his  mind  is  not  disturbance  or  hunger,  {bkres) '. 

1.  8,  acintikd  tasya  gund  hliavantl. 

1.  9,  '  except  for  the  ripening  of  former  karma '  {vind  vipdhena  purunakena). 

1.  10,  vistdrasutrd  ;  and  carime  ksaya-fii(te  ?). 
Pp.  93-97.  The  Mahaparinirvana-sutra  is  to  be  found  in  the  Bkah-hgyur,  vol.  J 

(VIII),  fols.  1-231  of  the  India  Office  copy  ;  and  the  passage  occurs  on  fols.  209  i"'- 
211  ffl"'.     The  following  points  of  reading  arise  : — 

Obv.  1.  'i,ydvacl  aclya  aham.  11.  4r-5,  irpyate  (sic). 

1.  6,  antardhdnasya  anydny  api  mmittdni. 

I.  7,  wpdvrlidyd^  apakva-pdkdrt/iarh  \tnegkd. 

Rev.  1.  1,  om.  iismam.  1.  2,  mecjhd  varsanti  tatah.  1.  3,  vaipulya. 

II.  3-4,  tad  iddnlm  ayaiii  sutraldbhas  tathdgatdjneyam  dgataJi,  '  the  obtaining 

of  this  Sutra  has  passed  into  the  knowledge  of  (only)  the  Tathagata  '  ; 
cf.  djndya  in  1.  2.  1.  5,  tatlidgata-pratyekalmddha. 

1.  6,  prahlmtasya^  '  large  '.  1.  7,  devatd'\-pujd-\nimittath. 

Pp.  100-103.  The  Ratnadhvaja  appears  in  the  Tibetan  Bkah-hgyur,  Mdo.,  vol.  ^ 

(X),  fols.  304-455,  under  the  doubtless  more  correct  title  Mahasamnipata-ratnaketu- 
dharani.  The  passage  is  found  on  fols.  326  i"-327  b^,  in  chapter  (bam  -jjo)  II,  entitled 
Puravrtta,  where  we  may  note  the  following  points  of  reading  : — 

Obv.  1.  3,  add  '  in  the  great  Kalpa  Snan  •  ba  •  liclian  •  ba  {Frabhd-dhara,  Prakdsa- 
dJiara  ?),  when  the  life  of  creatures  was  68,000  years  '. 
1.  4,    add    vidydoarana-sampannah    sngatah    lokavid    mttva-damya-aaratliih 
anuttaraJi  deva-nara-deSlkah  [buddko  b/iagavdih,  which  is  implied   by 
the  ydva  of  the  fragment. — Pancakesdya  kdle  (shigs-ma-lna-ni-du^-nd). 
1.  5,  samayena\  cafurdvlpendrah  cakravarti-\_rdjd. 
Rev.  1.  1,  add  ndnd-dliupebhyali. 

1.  2,  om.  aparimitenfi ,  punar  api,  and  read  trih  pradakshilkH i/a. 

I.  3,  surahhvjagddi-giindhliipujita  ;  om.  kali;  saptadlianair  jagad-Jiita-kara. 

1.  4,  mntamatili  (by  error,  zi  for  zib)  ;  sarvajagati  tamohara  j^raiama-pradipa- 

kara  ;  warana-jard-jdti-ioka-j etr .  1.  5,  om.  narva,  tr. 

1. 7, mtp%mi^a\  bodhisativah ; bJiavati\  kdni  tr'ml [adhydhyeu a ;  asadrm-\dukkha ? 

Pp.  108-116.  Of  the  Suvarnaprabhasa  the  Tibetan  Bkah-hgyur  presents  in  the 

Berlin  copy  (see  Dr.  Beckh's  catalogue)  three  versions,  of  which  the  first  is  from  the 

Chinese.    The  two  first  recur  in  the  India  Office  copy,  namely  in  Bgyud,  vol.  ^  (XII), 

fols.  1-208  and  208-385  respectively.     The  rendering  from  the  Chinese  is  naturally 
of  less  value  thaa  the  other  for  textual  comparison  ;  but  it  is  by  no  means  useless. 

(1)  This  passage  is  to  be  found  on  fols.  288a™-298a^'  (  =  91  ai^-92  a'")  at  the 
end  of  chapter  VIII  (Hiranyavati-pavivarta)  and  beginning  of  chapter  IX  (Sunyata- 
parivarta).     The  following  points  of  reading  may  be  noted  : — 

Obv.  1.  2,  Both    renderings  begin    '  Then  the  Bhagavat,  having  uttered   that 
Dharani,  again  for  the  benefit  of  those  Bodhisattvas^  Mahasattvas, 
Devas,  men,  &c.,  assembled  round  him,  in  order  to  show  the  nature  of 
the  excellent,  true  Sunyata,  at  that  time  uttered  these  verses '. 
].  6,  mmgrdma  (not  so  the  Chinese). 
Rev.  1.  2,  sparhsu{l),  {reg-pa-dag-la)  ■  anatikrdntdh  —  pravistdk. 
1.  3,  samgrama  (not  so  the  Chinese). 


412  LIST  OF  ADDENDA 

Rev.  1.  4,  '  as  ;i  bird,  attached  to  tlie  six  indriya's,  knows  the  visaya's  of  the 
indriya's,  so  the  mind ',  &c.     But  the  Chinese  does  not  here  bring  in 
the  bird. 
1.  5,  Both  versions  give  yatra  ea  jaira,  {dlan-po-gan-gan-dii). 

I.  6j  '  makes  its  own  the  knowledge  of  that  indriya '  (no  negative) ;  Chinese, 

niscMa  (ses-iiie<J)  for  niscesta  ;    ahhuta  =  asvabhava  ;   parihalpa-mmv- 

\_dbliava. 

(2)  This  passage  ocears  in  fols.  354  ^'"-354  i^"  (=  167  5*^-168  5'"),  being  the 

end  of  chapter  XXI  (Susambhava ;  Chinese  Raja-Susambhava),  and  the  beginning 

of  chapter  XXII  (Deva-yaksa-pariraksana-ksetra-dharani).     The  following  readings 

may  be  noted  : — 

Obv.  1.  1,  saddJtarma. 

II.  2-3,  om.  atha — dmanirai/umdsa  (which,  however,  occurs  in  the  Chinese). 
1.  5,  ]}ar'ijdmlu.  II.  5-6,  the  Chinese  adds  nigaine  audi parvate. 

Rev.  1.  2,  ja  icclief.  ].  3,  the  Chinese  omits  vihdrai'ih  lenam  eva  ca. 

1.  4,  fjvna-sdrjaram  (not  so  the  Chinese). 
1.  6,  pravestavt/a  (Chinese,  h-otavyu). 

LIST  OF  EBB  AT  A 

P.  19,  left  col.,  1.  3  from  bottom,  re&d  jjratila///-  for  pndilahi 
P.  62,  footnote  10,  read  parivdritah,  p.  39. 


gniJi  kunde  na  mstram. 
as  confirmed  by  the  Tibetan. 


P.  90,  11.  1,  2,  probably  read  \_eka  grJinafo  na  tdpam  a 
P.  90, 1. 4,  in  place  of  the  crossesj  read  te  tasya  te\_ji'na 

P.  90,  1.  7,  in  place  of  the  crosses,  read  n'lgd  atha  j/aksa-rdksasd  te  tasya  tejo  na, 
from  the  Tibetan. 

P.  95,  footnote  14,  read  '  der  '  for  '  des  ' 

P.  99,  footnote  17,  add  'Vlnixta,  &c.,  with  a  single  t,  however^  are  regular  Pali 

P.  103,  11.  16  and  20,  insert  "■  I '  before  ''  say  '  [spellings  '. 

P.  106,  1.  3,  read  sthdma-lalavaii ^ 

P.  113,  1.  14j  read  rd-  for  rd 

P.  120,  1.  10  from  bottom,  read  ''banner'  for  'flag' 

P.  120,  1.  17,  from  bottom,  insert  comma  after  '  renunciation  ' 

P.  124,  1.  4,  read  dsdda  for  dsd  a. 

P.  125, 1.  4,  read  '  Rishis '  for  '  Rishis  ' 

P.  127,  1.  2,  read  '  Dr- '  for  '  dr-  ' 

P.  128,  right  col.,  1.  7,  read  DnUa-  for  Blmllia- 

P.  129,  footnote  27,  add  '  also  allowed  by  the  Tibetan '. 

P.  130,  right  col.,  11.  2,  3,  read  a\yam,  and  \sadafdi  for  -sadaMi- 

P.  131,  right  col.,  1.  3,  read  sarvdvac-caknnk 

P.  132,  1.  5,  for  '  the  world  with  its '  read  '  and  the  whole  circle  consisting  of  the 

P.  134,  right  col.,  1.  9  from  bottom,  read  malid&attvd  [world  of 

P.  196,  read  *a-gacehati  with  asterisk. 

P.  207,  read  Mahayana  for  Mahayana 

P.  214,  L  3,  read  '  Stein  MSS.  Ch.  00275  and  Ch.  xlvi.  0012.  A'. 

P.  289,  1.  4,  read  '  Stein  MS.,  Ch.  xlvi.  0015  ' 

P.  351,  right  col.,  1.  5,  dele  comma  before  Suhlmti 

P.  365,  1.  11,  read  \  and  f. 


Plate  I 

I 


I.    HOERNLE    MS.,    No.    1495.      ViNAYA   TeXT,    FoL.    90.       REVERSE  Scale  about  'i 

2.    HoERNLE  MS.,  No.  1495-.     Atanativa  Sutra.     Reverse  Scale  about  i 


3.     HoERNLE    MS.,    No.    1497,.        UpaLI   Sutra.      Oi;VERSE  Scale  about  ] 


Plate  II 


Ki'H 


I.    HoERNLE  MS.,  No.   1495.     Pravarana  Sutra,  Fol.   132.     Reverse  Sca/^  a/wiiH 


2.  Hoernle  MS.,  No.  1497*;-.     Candropama  Sutra,  Fol.   25.     Reverse  Sc-a/e  adorn  i 


3.  Hoernle  MS.,  No.   149;.     ^uka  Sutra,  P'ol.  56.     Reverse  Si-ak  about}. 


4.    Hoernle  MS.,  No.   150^.     Mahapratyangira  Dharai^I,  Fol.  6.     Obverse         s<ale  aboui  \ 


Plate  III 


.« 


^ 


7* 


t^  «^  2_  ib^ 


I 


■»'■■.- 


w 

> 


o 


*t/«^. 


if' 


^  ^.  ^  "SL  i 


nP^' 


^1 


"^ 


V 


C»     IT 


x^ 


r4 


<u 


H 
C/3 


H 


ON 


O 

iz; 


♦>4  (in 


L§' 


I 


5^ 


<J 


3  2^^^  ^ 


o 


p 


(J 


z 

M 
O 


-1- 


o 


■4 


M 


•sS*    -*« 


v> 


<I9 


is 


51  ^ 


**     •■'      •»      w  / 
^   0»  ,  fr 


w  ,> 


<-:- 
.*^.- 


■^ 


Pi 

•A 
> 

■A 

•A 


H 
-A 


2; 


o 


2; 

w 
o 


Plate  IV 


*^^ 


'^.  3 


*^-  fe'     ^    ^«'i    SS^     "       w       * 


fo  ^ 


"^      w       W      L  t*  ' J  /~-i   ff> 


o 
w 


•^^ 


o 

iz; 

CO 

J 

o 


S  ^  ^  ^  ^  f^ 


> 
O 


Pi 

O 
<! 


O- 


O 


->^; 


".^  t 


#.  » 


,"v> 


1 1 1  ^  ^  5 

r^  *i^  rr 


^1i 


'M, 


1  0. 


■-r\ 


a'"       * 


tii 


m 
O 


to     Ak    »M    r    ^ 

^  1^  S  £ 


19 


•J 

o 

H 
O 


|<1 
<! 
H 
Pi 


tr,  ^ 


o 

^; 
c/5 


w 
o 


Plate  V 


C 


» jf  ^  kf •  -^ 
^  4>  3  *1 


o . 


ii 


C-.A 


"5   bo 


TJir^ 


^    Ml)  'fo<a  fe«. 


if  fe 

tit   f^Jlb 


.^i>  *«>  r  .r      .^  *fe  (?  ^ 


fa.      ^ 


i«?  ^  <?    ^ 


-4 


^1 


*WM     -^         '/*  te. 


If 


O  CO 


tr  .   is 


c  -*■ 


f5 


^ 


i^%k 


5  ^t>^  ^  ^ 


< 

as 

(2 

5 
w 

o 
u 
< 

PS 


o 
o 

X 

u 

<; 
z 
3 

H 


Plate  VI 


^1    ^f    ^S 


•A 
r 


.3»;;.i 


O  i:d 


f  ei-  \ 


fe  te  T   f' 

t     )  "^ 


ttt*   Srire 

0^   ^^  J^    I 


♦5  m»'^. 


tw  »   lib 

(^      .fc  «*♦    ST 

1    «*  ^  5 


1^  ♦!  ^  ^tf 


f 

^ 
'< 

& 


r  at  ftt- 


V 


^  7   ♦to  » 

^)V  >5»  ♦$  f^ 

jr^  ^  «'  w 


n 


f 


iff' 


T«^  5  ■ 


7   ^    *^    ^ 


°2 


Pi 
i< 

cu 
\< 

< 
Pi 

C^ 

<< 
'6 

a 
w 

X 
u 
u 
<■: 

Hi 

< 

> 


el  >  »  i 
T<<»   fe  15  / 


o 
o 

K 
U 

2; 


H 
IT) 


Plate  VII 

4?f?  '^rrl'  4^1  ^i*-f  k?l 

lis^'     &'5^^'    'p!»',^  r^tt'   *»'!r^/| 


^^    t^^:  \X^l  r>^fi?  ^.^ff^ 

<.                      '  -  ■                             Q 

^-.  ^.i^^  ,_-  w^-'  .,. ,_ _  -  _  w 

.                                         -^  ^  ■«                    8 

O"^                                                               "cO  '7^'i-H  — ■                                                                 ^                                                              -^ 

txH^                                                          U.^  r?'^  P  -I                                                        ^S?                                                    ^ 

"                     ^       *                             -  ~  t                   •> 

»i*^''<>  %&i*'i'  l»i^  i'^r^   i^^t^r 

ii.5»^    ^l^\  M^  %zl^    t\t- 

L^Ji*^      fkw^*  L%J:'*  •=»2.i#^     *  E.»«*' 

1^  ^t    J^'^l  [-^'f  i^'f    l,"-^!. 

ftt.^'   ii*'*  ^^^»^.  ^fgJfe  ^liV 

ll"^.  tt.<  r^^!^  ^-?^  I«>! 


o 
o 

U 
c/5 


w 

H 
C/2 


Plate  VIII 


0f  .iS-»  %)   * 


^11! 


)&  ^  *t  T 

'I  ^^  ^ '?  ■ 


'^    Hr 


1^  I  t^    |r 


(OC 


2  ^  *^ 


-101 


t  ^  "%  e» 


»  ? 


(SS 


•»    5*^  »•   «r 


f} 


'■f         K 
'>  A  '^  Jl 


c  o 


^ 


i^ 


?  *^  **  Oft    '^ 


IT    <«?    5)      )t 


*^.    <#■  If  ^:r? 


T?-:;? 


a, 
K 

OS 


a 

■A 
X 
O 
U 

m 
< 
> 


O 
O 

E 


H 


Plate  IX 


0^     eft    & 


■'.iain,ai!r 


eh- 


C2*V 


G5     »^  ^   "^ 


|_  ^a-  P"  ^ 


L  ^  ^  !l 

tit   i»^7t 
^  ft 


.*t  5-^     fill 


ii 


0)  ey 


w    ^ 


9 


>> 


?« 


IC     «^ 


^   /  ^  "*■ 

w    'J     5   5f« 

4  >*  T  ^ 


!»  g_  gie  |w^ 

ill* 
-  if!* 

'*«'''  ^  L  ^ 
*^  '^  &  f 

0>%     P    % 


•I*- 


^  r\. 


^  5*  »j  ig 


% 


^^V 


^li 


'%  ^  ^t 


5?r  f  f  «JP . 

11  f^ 


o  '^ 


5^  5^  ^  tt«y 

1 


L  '9*  V  B 
El  ?  i  ^ 


u 
u 

> 


N 

o 

o 

K 
U 

•y5 


2 
w 


I 


Plate  X 


16/ 


^^?| 


If 


^ 


,  ^    £  ^  *»• 


t 


^tl 

t^"^   L 


tffT 


IT 'I 


?».(        )    116 


o  ^ 


H 


Q 

o 
u 


1  ^  ^  & 


/t.%  f^ 


^tz 


r  ►if'?? 
f i  «  > 

Sir 


nr^ 


Szf  f 


ftr'  ♦5    ^    r 


^  ^  ;^  ^ 


o 
o 

K 

u 


H 


Kt> 


Plate  XI 


•v-  t^t 


1^  •    ♦ 


!• 


'"^^ 


^'  ft? 

f'  »?  w  p 


5^ 


5 


t«f.ti 


Or 


2  ^  ^   f 


^*y.„ 


9   '"^^iM  e 


JfS^fO 


to     ^  ^  '* 

^  i^  «■  ^ 


^^    f  Si.. 

Id  ^A, 

::  3  .fee  -^/^*^ 

^^  i  tS  ^.   ^' 


1  ^^  t    I 


u 


•^ 


/ 


*  V       - 


< 

H 
ID 
CO 

in- 
-J. 
O 

3 


6 
12; 

z; 

O 


■■-A 


•.*  -f  T  I" 


V 


^ 


Plate  XII 


rll>  i^!^^   l\2^  il'^'i    \<^ 

A^^l       r'S-^t        S'^/ll^      lit'"         i>    5    1% 


Kir  j^^^,;  t^^i/  itn.^  UEi 


'i^'l^  ^?x^?^  5ri^'  ^!«^>  ^>I^^!!^ 


Itl?  tt|^^  vli'^  tlii  \'A\ 

tv^vMi^  'Oku  1^'^  kn^^ 

^^^  ^    fa^^      f^ti     Kl^'i  ^^tZ 

*%  ■'^  % -^>     T  ^ -»' ^^^     1 1  T^^ii^    -^^  Vr  ^  #  ^  ^I^ 


1^ 


Q 

o 
u 

< 
> 


>^ 

K 

u 

g 

3 

H 


"jCf. 


F 


til  %  ? 

f^    f    ff'    V 


/0 

> 


^^^Si!^ 


X    >^  tot 


^l^ 


^i  ^ 


^ 


t  1 


I'll 


;i$ 


trt 


r^^ 


^' 


Plate  XIII 


iff? 


i 


«f  )w  !!r 
^  ^  Ji«' 

5^  ^^ 


5W"sii» 


P^ 


5 


; 


(2 


c  y- 


o  t^ 


o  ^ 


> 


/^  t"A  m^ 


,f  I 


iS^    '^i   "^ 

*    I  ft" 


■'Hi 


^  %■ 


?f 


lit  I  • 

>r  jn  *t«» 
*    ♦^  •IL. 


,«$ 


r  It 


u 


H 


Plate  XIV 


tw 


resell 

'^  Ik  » 


'^y'^ 


^' **>  to  ?«;-■' 


3 
W 
K 
o 
o 


^  ?  ;: 

«^  .*'  i^t 

li  &  ^ 

^    1  > 


¥ 


«)t    'W  S  '^ 


'•■»..    to-   » 
^    »  .1?    » 

'fci    La   "* 


^\i    :i 


'M  *V 


**■  **  «L  "^ 


"!«  '1  *^    *• 


'<*    ,V       L  .If 

It       Iv    f  ► 

:i  >^  r.  ^ 

k-  k  -  t. 

%  .1.    h  'B 

.*■  c^,  ^,.  ►/ 

•i  lb 

'I    I  *•   ^ 


ir    l^ 


I? 
K 

k 


'1    ^     k 


«k     IfVr      *       . 

.!k     *   "^     * 

k  fc'-l^  k 

''    ^  I    ^ 

■I  '\    *    f 
^<^  lit     I 

Put: 

'<»»•?      t      fe 

S     b     to    itr 
k  «lip    J   (> 


Up    t    t, 
t^   k  1>      t^ 

r  k  t  <ijf 

M  ?  r 

'i;  k  ^♦J 

<«  it-     itfc 
""?        » 

k^^-^r^ 

Ik  'i  o  ^ 


ID 


O  CO 


> 

X 
U 


J  ^:^  • 

♦      "^     fT   Mr 
ill'   *%<»■  *   L*- 


It  •* 


&    on    y    ns 

^    »     .    (V 

!».  ^  i  M 

'  f    ^1 

*  ^  It  r 

:*  k    k^  "" 
'    »  ■%   fr 

"  *  t..» 

lit  (»    '  eiji 
(i*    k  <t    to 


<1»   .^  lik      kr 

^;  ^  ^^  ,* 

I  .^  "^  ^'^ 

1.  "^  li*"   », 

'S  -^  ^ 

%  .    ■    •!* 
kt  *Hk<ii»«  im 


u 

(it  ^ 
k«t 
t    It 

^  -k 

^   ti* 
<t>  k 

»%■ 

^    fr 

tfer  ^ 

k 

C*    t 

k    ^ 

*%    k 

r  ftr» 


It 
k 

4  V. 

(iV  k 

^i 
cc«it 

I    I" 
k 

I    ^ 

►»  t 
k»<V 


<^    (*■    « 
i    *  t 

'      5     r 

k 

t 

k  't   *' 


Ec  k 


if 

tt 

» 

k 

!k 

t 

•k» 

k 


up 


> 


C^    5 


g 

3 


Plate  XV 


fV  *^  **  /> 
^     S   ft-     t» 


*15 


-X^^A' 


Wi 


i^ 


'5ra 

* 

^^ 

n) 
•■) 

)     s 

/>»     > 
\^    n 


it 

lb 

IT 


* 


1 1» 


*t.!?  k  4 


f    tv  ^  1^ 

2  *'  ^  k 


(» 

'«r 


*<k6   t      fe     * 
'''    to   <*     t 

^1  u 


r 


•V 


t^ 


o 

CO 

a- 


o  «o 


O  00 


o  ai 


"*^^-i!a;; 


tt     I? 


i 


<V    Aft     ^ 

^?  ^  r 

t  Kp  irk 

J*   ^     .     A 
■     ^ 


«k    ill   :« 


% 


,5    /   >b(  k 

I   k  -0,1 


k 

ik 

k  :t> 

"«•» 
H 

•«» 

*s 

»r   »» 

kr 

/» 

Ik    k 

k 

^ 

i»<s»- 

W 

V 

>i 

V 

at  (*»! 

w 
«k 
k 

i 

k 

k  "^ 

7 

t* 

«> 

•k> 

kf 

-r 

k 

^ 

iC 

\ 

<9 

1^ 

•k 

\ 

^  ■  ■J' 

'<! 

% 

A    ^ 

<M 

t*  > 

k    V 

f 

*f> 

V   f 

.  r 

<* 

e   w 

i  'k  >  k» 
A'  '!•  1  ^ 

E   k  iw  w 


> 


k 


•^f  Jk    « 


t  'k-*^ 


?t 


Plate  XVI 


t:'. 


1^   *  «* 

» '^^^ 

^^  f  1, 

^  S  ^l 
^  »f»,  * 
IT  I?  k  /^ 

1  iJ   "5   .S 

X.  lie  fn,   |» 

»r  *    «    r 

f  ;■      «» 

i  \      //* 

<*»   (St*   t 

*v  (Sr  ^  ; 


L. 


7    .^» 


»     (i> 


^    V 

r  k  •* 


'^  ^  '^  ' 

tW>  .      I.  ^0 

•to  [  ^  0» 

^     '»     ^     ^ 
J,     W    {^   ^ 

Aft  (^   >?  » 

(T       » 

^'  to   1^    *■ 
%'i  >    ^ 


^  (ii  ^    Y 


? 


it  I 

f    *:     "^     ir 

>   ^  i',  ^c 

2   /-»    '*^  (* 


'o 


H 
ID 


X  * » 


^ 


1 


U' 


r. 

» 


o  cc 


»« 


^^^  i. 


TJ  <*  rt>  «* 
w  V    k    ^ 


V  4 


■4'  1 1 1 


(^ 

lit    k 

"s  t  S> 

Ik  »    » 

IT     ITO 

% 
k 

t 


tk 


k 


tfc,    'fe     * 


k?' 

k    w 


,1 


\    t 


k  % 


kr    '^ 


tirt  'k   '^'  f*' 


F 

(fi  tk 


IS 


^  r  «k  w 
?  «>»  'k  ^ 

(ik      »      BS    t^ 


*  rt>  '^  ^ 


i^   k 


■A 
c/5 


'A 
H 
(/3 


Plate   XVII 


nf. 

b  ^  '  '^ 

>»  'k  fr  ^ 

te    ^  i>»  (J 

*^  ^  *     •■ 

V  b^  ^ 

CS    .IT     **     . 

1%  <i,    r  F' 

^   ^  ['  ^^ 

^  ^  }    [ 

v-i 

»5   »    *  l»^ 

-J^ 

•o'k. 

t^-" 

*^  ?  1!  "^ 

^  '  »  '«>» 

%  ^  <V    (w» 

41     ?»    i,     .(/ 

rt*   i!»  k     * 

S^  t  I  <h. 

to  .7    to    » 

m.  'i'    »  (% 

%  *<j,  *  7 

T '  t 

«    7' 


'%     to   ft 


/J 


u 

b 


< 
Pi 

H 

P 

■< 
H 


> 

k1 


4  ^  ^ .» 

n  (^        ^  .» 

f  «k       '■^  t 

^  .f  ^^  ^    ^ 


'-T) 


It  ?^> 

►     »    b  Us 

4tT 


OP 

V 


.■r» 


■r/» 


O 


o 

a 


o 

<; 

H 
M 


H 

< 

H 

o 
t4 


CO 

■5t- 


o 


O 


ai 

> 

H 


Plate  XVIII 


^    ^     ^    ^^ 


b    A 


{^? 


»*  -ri 


#  ^  «fc  IIP 


i  iVt 


*o 


;•  4'  Z  '^ 


si 
> 

O 


a- 
P 


a 


o 


z 
o 


y 


s»  !tr 


^ 


2  «)l^ 


H^  4  '4^ 

^S^ 


"J  ♦J' 


^^ 


:? 


he' 


te 
% 

9 


SI 


}^ 


Pi 

w 
e4 


s    o 

-2  Z 


z 

a 
o 


O 


•is. 

p 

6  ^ 
^  S 

CO    5 

a  Q 
J  < 

Z  CO 

oi 

S   > 

So 


^%    N 


Plate  XIX 


1.    Stein  MS.,  Khora  005  a.     Catuhsataka  Stotra  Scale  about  \ 

2.     HOERNLE    MS.,    No.     149^-.       PraYASCITTIYA,    FoI..     IoS  Scale  about  }r 

3.     HOERNLE    MS.,    No.    149^.      PrATIDESANIYA,    FoL.    109  Scale  about  ^ 


Platk  XX 


u 

8-1 

*  tit 
(«  nit 

y 

?  L 

'  f 

a? -IS 


.Hit 

'  Aft         T         **    ^ 


^h\ 


.((r  n 


>»  i  «^t  ^ 


^i:;s 


L,=.    'i-   •?     " 


^^* 


^ 


KhfA 


'•? 


I?' .'-'  cC 


5^  ;S?  cf   i'^ 


< 

a 

< 


<; 

en 


o 

Z 
O 


^    .^  ow  ^Jra 


1^: 


p 


n^.rsB  ■  H  '^ 


B  (ft  'jO'Ci 
ft  /'^.S^/'f 


'!| 


»*,*«>:  fS. 


a 


^r'^'V 


.4 

^•1 


j-tff'f^'f  r 


wsiTSg  j^e  n  Tip 


^  Ot-   & 


«»  .1 


•«»,V,  *«fl 


Br  6   " 


fW 


Pi 

.  W 

00  bS 

.  H 


i-  't'  0.  ^  r  ^  « 


CO 

Pi 

>  ^' 

a   ^ 

O  ^ 


'  /  •t'f  ^  s'  r 


^"  44  ^*  I  ?  f 4 


•(wtl^  «/«*!  S^c^l- 


m 

CO 


w 
o 


Hli 


> 


-i^<L 


Sr 


» 


*     » 

i  '^  t 

f     e    in 


< 
> 
X 
Q 

(25 


o 

2; 


Pi 
o 


< 

Q    "a 


H 

w 

Q 
S 
P 


3^ 


o 
c« 

z 

w 
o 


Plate  XXI 


i  k 


^ 


1l 


^  'i  ^^J 


"i 


■  ft" 


f: 


<o 


o 

13 
o 


S 
w 

a; 


> 


3 
00 


5  (ft 


S 


i  . 


CVJ 


^     S     / 


<5   I 


^  ^  9  S'f  y 


'•'V 

-i".. 


.s  te? 


—x^ 


5 


c4 


< 

H 

ip 

< 
Z- 

> 


X 

-1- 

d 


~>,, 


'-'  ^ 


\  '^'i  ^H   g^  c^   pit 


^3.^^    ^     tar-       l^j 

'-:b  «?'  'Ti   ^  :*-  ItJ'' 


^ 


X 


P 

XI 


< 


6 

en 

z 

o 


Plate  XXII 


IT 
I 


1    '•« 

i  « 


H 
X 

H 

H 
w 

PS     m 


> 
P4 


-^    -r 


f? 


H 
Pi 
< 
P-, 


•ft    f 
^  $ 

■t«t     w 


t 

l-r 


s" 


ni 


t 

w 

T? 


•w     *       9?       ^''*      ^ 

^j    tc  fij-  =>r     >;   (it 


7       j>4    ^ 


OP 

lb 


c5r 


1 


■f  ^ 


J5 


^ 


HOERNLE  AISS.,  No.  142,  143 
Chinese-Khotanese  Document 


xxii    xxi     XX    xix    x^wjii'.  xvii    xvi     xv     xiv     \iii 


</• 


^    H5^      Jl  i  fL  -  '' 


9 
10 


Part  II 


II 

13 

13 


Obverse. 

Chinese  Text. 

Part  I 


Ci 


,.-f 


.4    :|>    fu%-^\ 
15    fe    -^i^l   :^ 


- 1  ^• 


Xll  i       XI 


X    »1X         Vlll       Vll 


V       IV       in 


1^, 


