Da 

Hz  t/^4-1- 

V.I 


BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE   ENDOWMENT   FUND 

THE  GIFT  OF 

Henrg  W,  Sage 

1891 


^.\'n•^^^^ 


1/4/ in  04-. 


The  date  shows  wh^athis  volume  was  taken. 


JUL  2  8  1976    S 


77  AG 


All  laooks  not  in  use 
for /induction  or  re- 
search are  litiiited  to 
all  borrowers. 

Volumes  of  periodi- 
cals and  of  pamphlets 
f  ouprise  so  many  sub- 
4e^,  that  they  are  held 
in  the  library  as  much 
as  possible.  For  spe- 
O  gcial  purposes  they  are 
given  out  for  a  limited 
time. 

Graduates  and  sen- 
iors are  allowed  five 
volumes  for  two  weeks. 
Other  students  may 
have  two  vols,  from  the 
circulating  library  for 
two  weeks. 

Books  not  needed^ 
during  recess  periods 
should  be  returned  to 
the  library,  or  arrange- 
ments made  for  their 
return  during  borrow- 
er's absence,  if  wanted. 

Books  needed  by 
more  than  one  person 
are  held  on  the  reserve 
list. 

Books  of  special 
value  and  gift  books, 
when  the  giver  wishes 
it,  are  not  allowed  to 
circulate. 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  this  book  is  in 
the  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924091752034 


HISTORICAL  MANUSCRIPTS   COMMISSION. 


REPORT 


ON 


MANUSCRIPTS 


IN  THE 


WELSH   LANGUAGE. 


VOL.  I. 


^re^enUti  ta  ha^  ^auiei  at  ^atlixment  h^  Cotirmanlf  a£  Igec  ^ajeitts. 


LONDON: 
PRINTED  FOE  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 
BY  EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 
PRINTERS   TO  THE   QDBEN'S  MOST   EXCELLENT   MAJESTY. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYRE  AHD  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Harding  Street,  Fleet  Street,  E.G.,  and 
32,  Abingdon  Street,  "Westminster,  S.W.;  or 

JOHN  MENZIES  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 
90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glassotv;  or 

HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 


1^1^8829.]     Price  Is.  4d. 


1898. 


JALE    OF    GOVERNMENT    PUBLICATIONS. 

"%The  tmder-mentioned  Firms  have  been  appointed  sole  Agents  for  the  sale  of 
Ooremment  Pablioations,  inolnding  Parliamentary  Beports  and  Papers,  Acts  of  Parlia- 
ment, Record  Office  Publications,  Ac,  Ac,  and  all  Buch  works  can  be  purchased  from 
them  either  directly  or  tbroogh  retail  booksellers,  who,  under  the  provisions  of  the  sale 
agency  oontracts,  are  entitledto  a  discount  of  25  per  cent,  from  the  selliog  prices  :— 

IN  ENGLAND  :— 

For  all  publications  exesptinff  Ordnance  and  Geological  Maps,  the  Hydrographioal 
Works  of  the  Admiral^,  and  Patent  Office  Pablications :— IIebsbb.  Etu  and 
SFomsirooDS,  East  Harmng  Street,  E.C. 
For  Geological  Maps : — Mr.  E.  Siaxk)Bs,  Oookspnr  Street,  B.W. 
For  Hydrographical  Works  of  the  Admiralty :— Mr.  J.  D.  Potibb,  31,  Poultry,  B.O. 
Patent  Office  Publications  are  sold  at  the  Patent  Office. 

For  all  Publications  eue^ting  this  Sydrographical  Works  of  the  Admiralty  and 
Patent  Office  Publications : — 
IN  SCOTLAND :— Msbsbb.  Johb  Mehzhb  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 

90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow. 
IN  IRELAND : — Mebsbs.  Hodobs,  Figsis,  A  Co.,  Lthheo,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 

The  following  is  a  list  of  some  of  the  more  important  Parliamentary  and  Official 
publications  recently  issued  i^ 
ff urliameutary : 
■tatntra— 

PuiZio  General,  Session  1897.    With  Index,  Tables,  Ac.    Oloth.  Price  3». 

Seeond  Bwised  EddUon.    By  authority.    Yol.  I.   A.D.  1235-1713.    Yol.  IL    A.D. 

1714-1800.    Yol.    in.     A.D.  1801-1814.    Yol.  lY.    A.D.  1814-1830.    Yol.  V. 

A.D.   1830-1836.       Yol.   YI.    A.D.   1837-1842.       Yol.  YIL    A.D.    184S-184& 

Yol.  Yin.   A.D.  1847-1862.  Yol.  IX.  A.D.   1852-1867.  Yol.  X.  A.D.  1858-1862. 

Yol.  XL    A.D.  1863-1867.    Yol.XIL    A.D.  1868-1871.    Koy.  8vo.    Boards. 

Price  7«.  6d.  each. 
B»vi»ed  EdUiotu.    Tables  showing  subsequent  Repeals,  effected  by  Acts  of  Sessioit 

60  &  61  Yict,    1897.    Roy.  8to.    34  pp.    Stitched.  Price  6d. 

BtaMes  in  Force.     Index  to.    Thirteenth  Edition.    To  the  end    of  the    Session 

68  A  59  Yict.    2  Yols.    Roy.  8vo.     Cloth.  Price  10*.  6d. 

The  Statutory  BuUb  and  Orders  revised.    Statutory  Rules  and  Orders,  other  than 

those  of  a  Local,  Personal,  or  Temporary  Character,  issued  prior  to  1890,  and  now 

in  force.    Yols.  I.  to  Vni.  Price  10«.  each. 

Stalmtory  Bule$  and  Ordert  other  than  those  of  a  Local,  Personal,  or  Temporary 

Character.    With  a  List  of  the  more  important  Statutory  Orders  of  a  Loou. 

Character  arranged  in  classes ;   and  on  Index.     Boy.  8vo.     Boards.      Issued 

in  the  years  1890, 1891, 1892,  1893, 1894, 1896,  and  1896.  Price  10».  eaoh. 

BtaMtory  Bides  and  Orders  in  force  on  1st  January  1893.    Index  to.  Price  10». 

Statiitori/  Bules  a/nd  Orders,  1898.    Registered  under  tne  Rules  Publication  Aot, 

1893.    In  course  of  issue. 
Acts  of  Parliament,  Public  and  Local  and  Private,  Session  1897,  are  now  published. 
[C.  8667.]    Ctjerenct.    Proposals    made    by    the    United    States    on.  Correspondence- 
respecting.  Price  2*d 

[C.  8698.]    Explosives.     Testing  Coal  Mines.     Report  of  Departmental  Committee  on. 

[0.  8732.]  Bkitish  South  Akrioa  Compant's  Tbrriiobies.  Correspondence  relating  to- 
the  Proposed  Changes  in  the  Administration.  Price  2d 

[C.  8734.]  Labd  Acts  and  Land  Ptochase  Acts  (Ibelahd).  Report  of  the  Royal  Com- 
missioners on  the  Working  of.  Price  4d 

[C.  8761.]    Ptjpil  Teacher  Ststbm.     Report  of  Departmental  Committee  on.    Yol.  I./ 

rO.8762.]    Ditto.    Yol.  II     Evidence  with  Index.  'Priwl???" 

U'v?''5f-^,„'^^''^-,^n'^„°o^^  Exchange  Sebvice  in  Glasgott.  Reoort  of  an  Inquiry   Priced/ 

£97  Life  AsBUBANCE  Companies.    Statement  of  AccoSor  the  yli 

fl.C.  No.  376.    1897.    Fokeign  Import  Duties  in  force  January,  1898.    RetS^rof.''  ^**' 

MINM.  ^  Reports  of  Her  Majesty's  Lispectors  for  the  year  1896.  with  SnmmrrieTof'tii 
Statistical  portion  under  the  provisions  of  the  Coal  Mines  Regulation  Act   1887 !  • 
.MetaUifermisMines  Regulation  Acts,  1872-1876 ;  Slate  Mines  (Guf  Jowder)  Ac\  iS 
Districts  Nos.  1  to  13  (complete).  ^         Pri     k«  o^ 

^'^Afte7^\m^^'''^°^^^^''^^''^'''''  andL-eland,and  the  Isle  of  Man.    I^ai 

QcAEaiEB.  Ditto.  •      ditta  ditto.  ditto        ■^""p^,^"".,''' 

^^SSf"  f^*»^.o»^-    List  of  the  Plans  of     Corrected  to  3lBt  December  1896.        Price  9i" 

The  foUowmg  appear  periodically,  and  can  be  subscribed  for  •—  ' 

Tbadb  or  TEE  Unhed  EiNopoM  WITH  British  Possebbioks  aotFobeiok  Coitntries 

showing  tiie  Quantities  and  the  Declared  Yalue  of  the  Articles  ^"TOTbies,. 

w^Z'ofte=°^  J^^HT^"*  '>  ^•'^i?  '^^  ^^'»*'»  B^si-^esa  i^e  published  daily- 
House  of  Lords,  pnce  Id.  per  4  pp. ;  House  of  Commons,  Id.  per  8  m 

^%^;nS^r.l,V^:rTZi£!''''''''°''^''  -^*^  i^orma^n'rf£li.e  to  their 

''i:if:^z^.lr£^&i:^^r''''''^'  '"^  ^"'-^^^  °°-*"".  -<^  Report., 


HISTORTOAL   MANUSCRIPTS    COMMISSION. 


REPORT 


ON 


MANTJSCRIPTS 


IN   THE 


WELSH   LANGUAGE. 


VOL.  I. 


^are^jiitfjr  to  bati)  ^auiei  of  parliament  fiy  (iD0mmanlf  of  |§cv  ;fiSajr^tu. 


LONDON: 

PRINTED  FOR  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 

BT  ETBE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 

rBINTEES  TO  THE   QUEEN'S  MOST  EXCELLENT  JTAJESTT. 


And  to  lie  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODB,  East  Haeding  Stkeet,  Fleet  Street,  E.G. ;  ond 

32,  ABrNQDON  Steeet,  Westminstee,  S.VV.  ;  or 

JOHN  MENZIES  &  Co.,  12,  Hakotek  Steeet,  Edinbubgh;  and 

90,  West  Nile  Stbeet,  Glasgow  ;  or 

HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Gkaeton  Street,  Dublin. 


[C— 8829.]     Price  Is.  4c?. 


1898. 


l\.\'\'\A'^']^ 


TFTE 


WELSH    MANUSCRIPTS 


OP 

LOED    MOSTYN, 
AT     MOSTYN    HALL, 

CO.  Flint. 


INTRODUCTION. 


There  are  forty-two  manuscripts  at  Mostyn  Hall  in  the 
Welsh  language.  One  of  the  most  noteworthy  of  these  is 
numbered  158,  and  its  most  noteworthy  part  are  some  550 
pages  devoted  to  the  history  of  Henry  VIII.  and  his  time. 

The  author,  Ellis  GriflSth,  describes  himself  as  a  "  soldier  of 
Calais  "  (fol.  6896).  He  seems  to  be  a  native  of  the  parish  of 
Llan  Asaph  in  Flintshire  ;*  at  all  events  he  owned  property  in 
that  neighbourhood  (fol.  26),  and  his  History  when  completed 
was  sent  to  a  friend  living  at  Pant  y  llongdy,  in  Gwespur,  in 
the  said  parish  (fol.  6896).  This  inference  is  also  supported  by 
certain  peculiarities  in  his  orthography.  At  what  time  he  left 
Wales,  what  he  did  in  London,  when  he  joined  the  army,  these 
and  other  particulars  concerning  him.self  are  probably  told  in 
the  body  of  the  work.  "  At  the  close  of  the  twentieth  year  of 
Henry  VIII.,  to  wit,  on  the  27th  of  January,  I  entered  on  my 
wages  (?)  as  one  of  the  Retinue  at  Calais,t  where  I  remained, 
and  there  I  passed  the  greater  part  of  my  life  from  that  time 
forth,  a  witness  of  many  things  which  deserve  to  be  put  down 
in  writing.  And  immediately  I  had  taken  the  oath  at  Calais 
I  went  over  sea  to  London  to  fetch  my  apparel,  and  to  give  up 
the  olRce  of  custodian  of  Wyngfild  Palace,  which  I  had  watched 
for  four,  nay,  for  seven  years  "  (fol.  4856).  While  returning  to 
Calais  his  ship  experienced  a  terrible  stonn,  and  most  of  the  cargo 
had  to  be  thrown  overboard,  including  the  trunks  of  Ellis  Griffith 
and  his  fellow  passengers.  A  specialist  in  the  history  of  the 
period  would  have  to  read  the  whole  of  the  second  half  of  the 
manuscript  before  a  final  judgment  could  be  pronounced  on  its 
value  from  a  purely  historical  point  of  view.  But  a  hurried 
examination  shows  that  the  passages  where  the  author  writes 
as  an  eye-witness  are  astonishingly  numerous,  and  make  his 
work  one   which   cannot   be  ignored   by   future   historians   of 

*  Since  writing  the  above  we  have  come  across  the  statement  that  Ellis  Griffith 
came  from  "  Gronnant  Ucha  ymhlwyf  Llan  Hassaph."  See  British  Museum 
Additionai-  MS.  15,034,  p.  342. 

t  "  ^  doetlium  J  mewn  w.u  waedgys  [?  =  waedgys  un]  o  Rettunw  Kalais." 
e     87130.  Wt.  7509.  -  g    2 


11 


Henry  VIII.  and  Edward  VI.  He  appears  to  have  moved  about 
a  good  deal,  and  to  Lave  kept  both  eyes  and  ears  always  open, 
with  the  pleasing  result  that  he  imparts  some  personal  touch  to 
most  of  his  accounts.  He  also  distinguishes  between  the  gossip 
of  the  hour  and  what  specified  persons  tell  him,  or  what  he 
finds  in  documents.  Sometimes  he  gives  more  than  one  version 
of  an  event,  and  declares  that  he  cannot  get  "  true  knowledge  " 
of  the  matter.  His  style  is  simple,  direct,  graphic,  and  he 
appears  incapable  of  taking  sides,  a  wisdom  perhaps  taught 
by  the  times.  His  sympathies,  however,  with  the  weak  and 
oppressed  are  openly  expressed  again  and  again,  but  always 
without  exaggeration  or  a  trace  of  passion.  Take  the  following 
account  of  the  rising  in  Essex  as  an  example  :■ — • 

"  It  is  safe  to  say  that  the  men  who  laboured  in  the 
country  to  persuade  the  people  to  promise  a  tithe  to  the 
king  were  beset  with  the  same  dilRculty  as  those  who 
strove  to  procure  payment  from  the  citizens  of  London, 
who  set  up  their  backs  resolutely  against  the  tax.  And 
yet  I  often  heard  many  of  the  citizens  say  that  they  were 
subscribing  for  the  king  a  large  sum  of  money  as  a  new 
year's  gift  which  would  put  an  end  to  the  tax.  But  it 
was  very  unlikely  the  king  would  accept  this.  Meanwhile 
the  folk  of  Lanham  [or  Lavenham],  a  town  on  the  borders 
of  Essex  and  Suffolk,  had  according  to  credible  witnesses 
agreed,  in  common  with  the  men  of  the  towns  of  Kent, 
Essex,  SufFolk,  and  Norfolk,  to  rise  at  the  sounding  of  bells 
or  an  alarum.  This  matter  came  speedily  to  the  ears  of 
the  Cardinal  who,  by  command  of  the  king,  caused  artillery 
harness  and  sliarpened  weapons  to  be  sent  to  Windsor 
Castle,  while  the  duke  of  Suffolk  and  the  duke  of  Norfolk 
were  sent  to  raise  their  tenants  and  serving-men  to  form 
an  army,  both  foot  and  horse,  to  check  the  rising  and 
coming  together  of  the  commonalty.  But  before  the  dukes 
had  mustered  all  their  people,  over  ten  thousand  '  fighters  ' 
had  assembled  together  in  and  around  Lavenham.  These 
the  duke  of  Suffolk  wished  to  attack  and  destroy,  but  the 
duke  of  Norfolk  would  not  agree  because,  of  a  sooth  the 
serving-men  and  tenants  had  let  drop  many  words  which 
showed  their  reluctance  to  fight  against  their  kindred  and 
companions  who,  they  deemed,  were  suff-ering  from  utter 


Ill 


injustice.  For  this  reason  the  lords  fell  to  talking  with 
their  followers.  At  this  time  some  men  came  out  of 
tlie  town  to  a  field  near,  wherein  the  lords  and  theii' 
dependants  were  stationed,  having  charged  their  comrades 
left  within  the  town  to  watch  unremittingly  what  the  lords 
would  do  unto  them  and,  should  the  lords  be  observed  to 
raise  an  alarm,  to  set  the  bells  in  motion  (the  clappers  of 
which  a  rich  man  in  the  town  had  removed). 

"  A  long  conference  ensued,  and  the  lords  agreed  to  hear 
the  people's  grievances.  Thereupon  a  large  number  of 
them  came  to  meet  the  lords,  and  began,  with  the 
characteristic  indiscretion  of  the  ignorant,  to  speak  all  at 
the  same  time  like  a  flock  of  geese  in  corn.  For  this 
reason  the  lords  bade  them  return,  '  press '  their  heads 
together,  and  consider  whether  they  would  maintain  their 
foolish  purpose  against  the  king  and  his  council  (against 
whom  they  could  do  nothing  except  to  bring  destruction  on 
themselves  and  their  neighbours  for  ever),  or  would  submit 
to  the  king's  grace  for  violating  the  law.  If  the  latter, 
they  should  appoint  one  of  their  number  to  plead  their 
cause,  and  show  the  reason  of  their  assembling  together 
under  arms.  In  order  to  sho\7  their  obedience  to  the 
king  and  their  repentance  for  causing  a  disturbance  in  the 
country,  they  sent  sixty  of  their  number  in  their  night- 
shirts to  meet  the  lords,  whom  they  found  ready  to  listen 
civilly  to  their  plaints,  and  to  become  their  keepers  and 
protectors  against  the  king's  ire  for  breaking  the  law. 
This  the  sixty,  on  their  return,  reported  to  their  comrades, 
who  began  to  babble  and  shout,  every  man  with  his  plan. 
Those  who  loved  strife  and  disorder  more  than  goodwill 
and  peace  protested  their  preference  to  die  like  men  in  their 
quarrel  with  such  as  were  daily*  despoiling  them  of  what- 
ever God  sent  them  for  the  labour  of  their  hands.  Others, 
who  loved  quiet  and  peace  more  than  wax*,  wished  to  fall  in 

*  We  have  ia  Peniarth   MS.  104,  p.  29,  a  curious  reflection  of  Welsh  feeliug 
concerniDg  this  dunning  for  taxes  in  the  following  Englyniou  : — 


Treth  faith  treth  nawaith  treth  newj'dd 
treth  fawr 
treth   a    fynan    bovnydd  (i-eZ   foru    a 

threnjdd) 
trethav  fil  jn  i  gilidd 
treth  ar  dreth  hvd  feth  a  fvdd 


Treth  bell  treth  gastell  treth  ged  troth 
gadarn 
trelh  i  gadw  dieilhred 
treth  garis  treth  gowired 
treth  i  ladron  kryfion  krcd. 

Rob:  ap  Hujh, 


IV 


with  the  suggestions  of  the  lords.  Atter  a  prolonged  talk 
the  majority  chose  the  worse  part,  and  sent  certain 
companions  to  the  town  to  sound  an  alarum.  These  sped 
thither,  showed  the  will  of  tlie  men  in  the  iield,  and  a 
rush  was  made  for  the  bells.  When  these  were  found 
without  their  clappers,  and  the  belfries  shut,  an  uproar 
ensued  within  the  town.  At  the  same  time  the  men  in  the 
field,  noticing  that  their  comrades  in  the  town  did  not 
come  forth  and  that  the  bells  did  not  sound,  began  to  lose 
courage  and  to  fear  in  their  hearts  that  they  were  betrayed. 
They,  therefore,  accorded  more  quickly  with  the  will  of 
the  lords  and  such  gentlefolk  of  the  district  as  were  there 
on  horseback,  treating  the  matter  between  them  and  the 
dukes,  before  whom  as  many  as  sixty  of  their  number 
appeared  in  their  shirts,  bareheaded,  and  kneeling  down. 
And  he  whom  they  elected  to  tell  their  tale  was  a  little 
man,  wizened  and  ill-formed,  a  weaver  by  trade.  After  a 
brief  conversation  he,  kneeling  a  short  space  in  front,  was 
asked  by  the  duke  of  Norfolk  :  '  "Wherefore,  and  against 
whom  are  ye  intending  to  go  ? '  The  weaver  answered 
that  it  was  their  intention  to  go  to  his  grace  the  king  to 
complain  of  the  Cardinal  on  account  of  the  taxes  which  he 
set  men  one  day  after  another  to  demand  of  them,  though 
they  had  not  the  wherewithal  to  pay.  And  he  showed 
their  poverty  in  so  many  ways  that  it  were  too  long  to 
repeat  here. 

"After  various  questions  and  answers  the  lords  asked 
who  was  chiefest  among  them  and  their  captain.  The 
weaver  declared  that  they  knew  no  captain  other  than 
Poverty,  which  caused  them  to  rise  and  do  that  which  was 
not  lawful  for  them  to  do.  And  no  one  in  the  assembly 
was  able  to  find  any  fault  with  the  answers  which  the 
weaver  made  to  the  lords.  Indeed,  I  heard  Sir  Humphrey 
Wyngffild,  who  was  esteemed  one  of  the  ablest  lawyers  at 
Gray's  Inn,  say  that  no  four  of  the  ablest  lawyers  in  the 
kingdom,  even  after  a  week's  consultation,  could  make  an 
answer  so  meet  as  did  the  weaver  within  less  than  two 
hours'  space.  And  everything  was  smoothed  among  the 
people  in  that  part  of  the  kingdom.     The  weaver,  however 


and  thirteen  of  his  fellows  were  sent  to  the  Fleet,  where 
they  were  imprisoned  till  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew.     Some 
time  after  the  Cardinal  sent  for  them  to  appear  before  him 
at   Westminster,  in   the   Star  Chamber,  in   which    I,  Elis 
Griffith,  was  then  and  there  present.     I  heard  the  Cardinal 
reprove  them  greatly  for  the  rising  and  tumult  they  had 
caused  among  the  people,  the  subjects  of  the  king  who  in 
his  clemency  forgave  their  revolt  and  pardoned  their  lives. 
But  they  must  keep  watch  over  themselves  in  future,  and 
be  obedient  to  the  king  and  his  council,  lest  punishment 
overtake  them.     Finally,  the  Cardinal  commanded  them  to 
settle  with  the  keeper  of  the  prison  for  their  meat,  drink, 
and  garnish  money  {avian  carchar),  whereupon  the  weaver, 
on  his  bended  knees,   stated   their  case  fully,  and  spake 
after  this  manner :  '  Merciful  lord,  we  beseech  you,  for  the 
glory  of  God,  to  hear  me  unfold  the  poverty  of  our  lives, 
inasmuch  as  we  have  not,  God  is  my  witness,  or  here  or 
in  our  country,  fourteen  shillings  in  money.     And  when  we 
return  to  our   homes  we  shall  have  no  means  of  providing 
meat,  drink,  and  clothing  for  ourselves,  our  wives  and  kin, 
save  and  except  by  what  we  shall  obtain   by  the  labour 
of  our  hands,  if  perchance  those  who  were  wont  to  employ 
us  aforetime  receive  us  again ;  but  that  which  I  am  greatly 
in  fear  of  is  that  they  will  not,  and  for  this  reason  we 
beseech  your  grace  to  look  mercifully  on  our  poverty.'    And 
after  a    '  long  process '  the  Cardinal    said  that  the  king 
would  pay   for  their  board  and  lodgment   in  prison,  and 
the  keeper  thereof  was  ordered   to  give  four  score  pieces 
and  ten  of  silver  to   every  one  of  them,  and  to  set  them 
free  to  go  back  to  their  country,"  &c.  (fols.  4786-806). 

It  was  evidently  a  happy  thing  for  these  wretched  men  that 
Wolsey  himself  had  come  from  their  country,  as  they  probably 
owed  this  parting  gift  to  geographical  sympathy.  We  thank 
Ellis  Griffith  for  this  ray  of  light  to  relieve  a  gloomy  picture. 

There  is  naturally  much  about  Wolsey.  The  account  of  the 
embassy  to  France,  which  left  London  on  the  third  of  July 
1527,  is  a  fair  instance  of  his  descriptive  power,  and  of  his 
habit  of  seeing  everything  with  his  own  eyes  as  far  as  possible. 
The  Cardinal,  he  tells  us,  spent  some  XX  days   in  preparation, 


VI 


and,  after  receiving  the  king's  warrant  to  help  himself  from  the 
treasury  at  Calais,*  sent  out  word  on  the  eve  of  his  departure - 
"  that  all  should  be  ready  with  their  horses  to  ride  with 
him  at  x  of  the  clock  on  the  morrow.  He  gives  orders 
that  his  carriage  shall  pass  through  the  city  during  the 
night  and  next  morning.  Consequently  I  was  early  at 
Paul's  yard  ....  watching  the  carriage  being  driven 
at  a  good  pace  through  the  streets,  and  looking  for  the 
Cardinal's  own  coming,  when  I  heard  certain  men  around 
me  questioning  each  other  if  he  was  going  towards  West- 
minster to  get  a  glimpse  of  the  gentlemen  waiting  for  the 
Cardinal  there,  and  to  see  him  take  horse  to  ride  forth  on 
hisjournej'.  An  oldish  gentleman  among  them  answered, 
'  Ha,  Sirs,  you  can  dine  at  your  leisure  and  be  there  in 
good  time  enough  to  see  him  mount  his  horse,  because  he 
will  not  start  till  the  planet  Jupiter  enters  into  the  house 
of  Venus  {yn  enttrio  o  vewn  tyy  Vemvs).  This  takes  place 
between  two  and  three  of  the  clock,  an  hour  to  which  he 
and  his  astrologers  have  been  looking  forward  for  three 
months  past,  under  the  belief  that  whatever  a  man  under- 
takes and  begins  at  this  time  will  prosper  better  and  better.' 
Nevertheless,  I  went  from  there  direct  to  the  palace  of 
the  Cardinal,  where  I  remained  watchfully  seeking  an 
opportunity  to  speak  with  certain  men  of  the  chamber  of 
the  Cardinal  who,  as  the  old  gentleman  had  said,  put  his 
foot  in  the  stirrup  between  two  and  three  of  the  clock  in 
the  afternoon,  and  rode  out  of  his  court  into  the  street, 
where  a  large  number  of  gentlemen  were  sitting  on  their 
horses,  and  had  kept  their  saddles  warm,  most  of  them,  for 
two  or  three  hours  past,  awaiting  his  pleasure  (amynedd) 
to  set  out  on  the  journey.  The  Cardinal  rode  through  the 
streets  on  horseback  as  a  humble  prelate,  lest  the  citizens 
should  speak  of  him  as  proud.  As  soon  as  I  saw  him  on  his 
horse  and  past  Charing  Cross,  I  hurried  back  to  the  palace, 
and  there  took  a  boat  and  rowed  quickly  along  the  Thames  to 
Pepper  Alley  (beppuralle)  stairs,  at  the  south  end  of  London 
Bridge,  where  I  landed  and  reached  the  street  before  the  front 
part  of  the  procession  had  reached  that  place  "  (fol.  466?* ) 

*  ■'  The  king  allowed  him  1,000  marks  a  day  towards  his  expenses  as  I  sawTT" 
certain  document  "  (fol.  4676).  ^  '    ^  ^"^^^  ''^  a 


Vll 


Then  follows  a  description  of  the  procession  and  its  progress 
to  Calais,  where  the  Cardinal  "  ordered  Sir  Kobert  Wingfield, 
the  Deputy  of  Calais,  to  bring  the  keys  of  the  town  to  him  that 
he  might  keep  them  that  night.  Sir  Kobert  obeyed  and  sent 
one  of  bis  serving-men  to  bring  the  chest  of  keys  from  his  own 
chamber  to  that  of  the  Cardinal's  in  the  '  Staple,'  to  be  placed  at 
the  head  of  the  bed."  Soon  after,  the  Cardinal  entered  his  room 
to  go  to  bed  but  found  Sir  R.  Wingfield  there.  They  chatted  a 
while,  then  the  Cardinal  asked  why  the  knight  was  there.  He 
was  politely  told  that  it  was  to  watch  the  king's  keys,  which  he 
had  sworn  to  guard.  "  Besides,  my  friends  in  England,"  said  he, 
"  have  bound  themselves  under  a  heavy  forfeit  that  I  shall  never 
neglect  the  custody  of  the  keys  and  the  town,  and  I  must  be 
excused  for  spending  the  night  where  the  keys  are  kept."  After 
some  further  talk  the  Cardinal  ordered  Sir  Robert  to  take  the 
keys  with  him  to  his  own  palace.  We  are  next  told  how  the 
Cardinal  emptied  "  the  Calais  exchequer  of  every  minted  coin, 
and,  if  we  may  believe  the  king's  serving-men,  filled  three 
waggons  with  chests  containing  barrels  of  gold."  Then  follows 
an  account  of  the  Cardinal's  progress  till  he  meets  the  French 
king,  and  of  the  mission  of  learned  doctors  he  had  sent  on  to 
Paris  to  discuss  the  question  of  divorce  with  scholars  there. 
When  these  agreed  that  "  it  was  clearly  lawful  for  the  king 
to  divorce  the  queen,"  the  Cardinal  aimed  at  bringing  about  a 
betrothal  between  the  king  of  England  and  the  sister[-in-law] 
of  the  king  of  France  (fols.  466-68) 

"  And  about  Michaelmas  they  began  to  talk,  both  at 
the  court  and  in  London,  that  the  king  would  divorce  the 
queen.  When  she  heard  this  from  the  mouths  of  the 
servants  she  took  the  matter  more  seriously  than  l)itherto. 
And  when  she  saw  her  opportunity  she  broke  the  subject 
to  the  king,  who,  after  many  high  words,  bid  her  set  her 
heart  at  rest  and  live  merrily  for  he  was  resolved  to  be 
divorced  from  her  as  soon  as  matters  could  be  arranged. 
This  filled  her  with  heaviness  and  bitterness.  At  this  time 
she  would  come  frequently  to  the  apartment  of  a  Spaniard 
and  his  wife  who  had  come  over  with  the  queen  to  this 
kingdom.  The  man,  who  was  one  of  the  queen's  sewers,  was 
named  Philip,  and  the  woman  was  a  sort  of  doctor  to  the 
queen  as  well  as  a  cook  to  prepare  for  her  certain  dishes 


Vlll 


after  the   manner   of  Spain.     To   this  woman  the  qiieen 

would  tell  oft  and  at  great   length  much  of  her  secrets. 

And  at  this  time  I    was   intimate  with   master   Philip's 

servants,  who  had  all  come  from  Wales,  and  who  showed 

me  many  of  the  talks  the  queen  had  many  a  time  with 

their  master  and  mistress  in    Spanish,  a  language  which 

the  men  understood  and  spoke  fluently,  especially  David 

np    Robert,   who    had   been    born    at    Llangollen"    (fol. 

4696-70). 

Such  sources  of  information  naturally  show  some  side-lights 

not  seen  in  other  works.     Our  author  followed  the  king's  love 

affairs  with  evident  zest,    and  he  was  of  opinion  that    Anne 

Boleyn's  discreet  conduct    intensified    the  king's  eagerness   to 

remove  the  one  obstacle  by  divorcing  queen  Catherine.     The 

accounts  of  the  coronation  of  Anne  Boleyn,  and  of  the  coming 

of  Anne  of  Cleves  to  Calais  and  thence  to  England,  with  Henry 

running  to  have  a  look  at  her  by  the  way   "  in  a  coat  of  grey 

velvet  with  hat  of  the  same  material,  on  which  there  was  a  gold 

chain  for  a  band,"  present  living  pictures  full  of  those  charming 

personal  touches  which  makes  much  of  this  history  the  most 

readable  prose  in  the  Welsh  language   after  the  Mabinogiou. 

We  do  not  merely  see  the  pageantry  and  hear  the  huzzas,  but 

we  seem  to  mix  with  the  crowds  and  learn  their  mind. 

Before  we  follow  our  author  across  the  English  Channel 
a  few  extracts  about  Wales  must  be  given.  "  After  the  dry 
summer  [of  1518]  a  plague  fell  on  the  cattle  of  Wales,  especially 
in  Anglesey,  where  the  animals  died  at  such  a  rate  that  the 
man  who  owned  100  heads  on  Lammas  day  had  not  one  left 
at  Allhallowtide  (fol.  449) ;  .  .  .  .  and  there  was  such 
scarcity  of  the  material  for  making  bread  in  the  shires  of 
Carnarvon  and  Denbigh,  in  Penllyn,  in  Edeirnion,  and  thence  to 
Ardudwy,  that  the  inhabitants  of  these  parts  fetched  corn  from 
such  distant  places  as  Derby,  and  Nottingham,  and  Lichfield. 
But  the  scarcity  was  also  so  great  in  these  places  that  nothing 
was  allowed  to  be  carried  away  except  peas,  beans,  and  a  little 
barley,  It  was  this  want  of  bread  Avhich  taught  the  dwellers 
on  the  mountains  of  Wales  to  become  better  farmers  tlmn  their 
forefathers,  and  all  who  had  strength  and  energy  set  them- 
selves to  plough  the  land,  to  sow  oats  and  rye,  from  which  they 
derived   much  succour   and   help "    (fol.    4516).      This   lesson 


IX 

taught  by  adversity  was  not  lost  on  the  Welshmen.  In  the 
18th  year  of  Henry  VIII.'s  reign  the  seasons  were  so 
"  unnatural  from  the  middle  of  March  to  the  middle  of  November  " 
that  when  the  crops  had  been  harvested  the  ears  were  found 
empty,  and  husks  only  remained.  There  was  a  corn  famine  in 
London,  "  and  in  many  parts  of  the  kingd6m  a  large  number  of 
the  people  could  not  get  enough  pea  or  bean  bread  to  satisfy  their 
hunger,  yet  several  men  from  Wales  told  me  that  there  was 
abundance  of  bread-stuff  in  the  three  counties  of  GwyneS,  because 
the  men  dwelling  on  the  mountains  cultivated  oats  and  rye, 
which  flourished  greatly  that  year  in  the  gravelly  soils.  And 
this  was  deemed  very  wonderful  and  miraculous  at  that  end  of 
Wales  "  (fol.  460). 

Considerable  space  is  devoted  to  the  quarrels  between  Lord 
Feris  or  Ferrers,  Chamberlain  of  South  Wales,  and  Rhys  ap 
Griffith  ap  Syr  Rhys  ap  Thomas,  who  was  in  the  service  of  the 
Cardinal  and  married  to  the  sister  of  the  duke  of  Norfolk. 
When  Rhys  went  down  to  Wales  the  whole  country,  we  are 
told,  turned  out  to  welcome  him.  This  made  Lord  Feris  envious 
and  jealous,  and  his  aggressiveness  led  to  a  personal  encounter 
with  Rhys,  and  their  quarrels  brought  'them  to  the  *Star 
Chamber,  "  and  it  chanced  that  I  was  present  on  that  day  with 
many  others  from  all  parts  of  the  kingdom,  when  and  where  I 
heard  the  ugliest  accusations  and  charges  that  two  gentlemen 
could  bring  each  against  other — charges  and  accusations  which 
thousands  of  poor  men  would  not  for  any  amount  of  wealth 
have  had  brought  against  them  by  word  of  mouth,  much  less  in 
writing.  .  ,  .  And  notwithstanding  the  numerous  threats 
of  the  Cardinal  against  them  I  never  once  heard  a  word  from 
him  in  defence  of  the  poor  whom  both  had  grievously  wronged 


*  The  order  of  the  proceedings  in  this  case  was  of  the  following  nature.  Both 
parties  were  summoned  before  the  Court,  where  "  each  of  them  made  the  most  serious 
complaints  and  allegations  against  the  Other  that  was  possible,  not  only  about  the 
affray  {ffrae)  that  had  been  between  them,  but  in  respect  of  the  oppression  of  the 
people  and  the  bribery  of  which  each  said  the  other  was  guilty.  And  when  the  Court 
had  listened  to  their  mutual  accusations  for  some  time,  the  Cardinal  summoned 
the  case  before  him  into  the  Star  Chamber,"  where,  it  is  clear,  all  was  heard  over 
again,  because  it  was  not  till  "  after  a  long  process  of  time  "  that  the  Cardinal  "  bade 
them  take  up  their  written  evidence  (i  hysgriuen  o  gyhudiant)."  Both  parties  were 
next  censured  severely  for  their  misdoings,  and  Lord  Ferrers  in  particular  for  his  bad 
temper  and  want  of  sense  in  quarrelling  with  one  young  enough  to  be  his  sou,  and 
whose  youth  must  be  his  excuse.  They  are  finally  disihissed  with  the  command 
that  they  were  to  make  peace  between  their  respectlre  followers  "  and  to  depart 
thence  by  land  and  water  arm  in  arm  to  the  palace  and  the  Fleet  "  (fols.  4816-82). 


according  to  the  written  statements  of  each  about  the  other  " 
(fols.  4816-82).  The  death  of  Rhys  ap  Griffith  was  generally- 
looked  upon  as  the  visitation  of  God  for  the  many  deeds  of 
injustice  and  spoliation  done  by  his  father,  grandfather,  and 
great-grandfather — "  For  I  heard  many  people  from  that  part  of 
the  country  [lying  between  the  Tawe  and  the  Towy]  say  that 
within  20  miles  around  the  place  where  old  Sir  Rhys  ap  Thomas 
dwelt  there  was  not  in  the  possession  of  the  poor  yeomen 
(gwreyng)  any  land  which,  if  he  fancied  it,  he  did  not  obtain, 
either  as  a  gratuity  or  by  purchase,  without  consulting  the 
owners,  who  without  doubt  heaved  oft  against  him,  his  children, 
and  his  grandchildren,  '  heavy  sighs  '  which,  in  the  opinion  of 
the  many,  fell  on  his  grandson.  Thus  do  we  see  the  truth  of 
the  proverbs  exemplified :  '  The  children  of  the  unjust  are 
uprooted.'  '  After  haughtiness,  a  long  death  '  "  (fol.  4926).  There 
were  troubles  also  in  North  Wales.  In  the  coui'se  of  the  years 
1534-35  "  there  was  much  disorder  within  the  districts  of  Powys, 
Kynlleth,  and  Mochnant.  And  at  this  time  the  king  appointed 
[Rowland  Lee]  Bishop  of  Chester*  as  president  of  his  council 
in  that  part  of  Wales,  and  gave  him  and  '  his  people '  full 
authority  to  administer  punishment  to  those  who  merited  it 
according  to  their  deserts,  and  it  is  said  that  over  5,000  men 
were  hanged  within  the  space  of  six  years,  among  whom  were 
certain  men  of  the  guard  with  the  king's  liveries  on  their  backs. 
It  was  at  this  time  that  the  bishop  made  complaint  of  certain 
laws  and  customsf  wliich  were  observed  and  upheld  in  certain 
lordships  and  sanctuaries  (nodduaiav)  in  Wales,  and  as  a  con- 
sequence the  sanctuaries  lost  their  '  authority '  as  places  of 
refuge  both  in  Wales  and  England  from  this  time  forth,  except 
in  cases  of  '  chance  medley  'f  and  killing  in  self-defence.  It 
was  at  this  time  also  that  the  king  assumed  the  royalty  of  every 
lordship  in  the  kingdom  under  his  government,  an  act  Avhich 
made  it  lawful  for  the  king's  ofiicer  to  fetch  a  felon  out  of  every 
lordship  in  England,  if  any  such  had  attempted  to  escape  the 
punishment^  of  the  king's  law.     Moreover  on  the  bishop's  advice 


*  The  Bishops  of  Liuhfield  and  Coventry  were  often  described  as  bishops  of 
Chester  till  the  creation  of  that  See  in  1541. 

t  See  Letters  and  Papers,  Foreign  and  Domestic,  of  the  reigu  of  Henrv  VITI 
for  the  year  1.536,  Vol.  X.,  Nos.  330  and  453.  ^ 


J  Compare  the  elegy  to  Sion  Eos  by  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt. 
§  See  Areilh  Wynn,  page  242. 


the  parliament  enacted  at  Westminster  that  no  man  within  the 
borders  of  Wales  should  bear  a  sword  or  dagger,  or  bow,  or 
spear,  or  glaive,  or  a  weapon  o£  any  description  in  his  hand 
either  to  church,  market,  shire  [moot],  hundred  [moot],  pleadings, 
court,  assembly,  or  session  (thitting)  under  pains  of  a  heavy 
penalty  and  imprisonment "  (fol.  5096).  The  writer  records 
with  sometliing  like  a  chuckle  that  Henry  was  compelled  to  ask 
the  Welshmen  to  "  rise,  take  up  arms,  and  come  quickly  "  to  his 
help  within  a  year  of  passing  the  above  statute. 

After  Ellis  Griffith  was  settled  at  Calais  we  hear  more  of  his 
difficulties  to  obtain  "true  knowledge"  of  events  in  this  country  ; 
he  makes  Wolsey  fall  ill  and  die  at  Nottingham,  but  he  is  not 
singular  in  the  statement  that  the' Cardinal  "took  so  much  physic 
with  his  own  hand  that  all  his  strength  was  scoured  out  of  him." 
The  accounts  however  of  the  embassies  that  passed  through 
Calais,  of  the  life,  doings,  plottings,  persecutions,  and  burnings 
that  went  on  there  want  no  detail.  When  it  was  rumoured 
"  about  the  beginning  of  February,  after  Henry  was  married  to 
Anne  of  Cleves,  that  there  would  be  a  great  war  between 
England  and  France  concerning  the  tribute,"  and  the  duke  of 
Norfolk  was  sent  in  hot  haste  as  ambassador  to  the  French 
Court,  Ellis  Griffith  notes  that  the  duke  lands  with  his  spurs  on 
and  immediately  rides  off  to  Boulogne  with  his  three  servants.  On 
his  return  his  grace  stays  three  nights  at  the  Staple  palace  with 
the  Deputy,  Lord  Lisle,  who  complains  that  over  sixty  soldiers 
of  the  gai'rison  are  "  outside  the  Catholic  faith,"  and  says  that  he 
had  often  reported  this  to  the  Lord  Privy  Seal  in  England, 
asking  him  for  power  "  to  remove  and  consume  "  them.  The 
particulars  of  the  burnings  at  Calais  are  gruesome  reading. 
Lord  Ijisle,  however,  suspects  that  the  Lord  Privy  Seal 
sympathises  with  the  heretics,  since  he  set  Thomas  Brook  at 
liberty,  and  allowed  him  Cb  return  to  Calais,  "  where  he  now 
lives  riotously,  eating  meat  on  Fridays  and  Saturdays  and  fast 
days."  Thomas  Brook  is  summoned  before  the  duke,  who 
thinks  the  accusers  "  more  to  blame  for  their  fault-finding  than 
Brook  for  eating  meat  in  his  weak  state  of  health."  Nothing 
daunted.  Lord  Lisle  complains  that  none  of  those  who  had  been 
sent  over  to  England  had  been  punished  by  the  Lord  Privy 
Seal.     "  But  I  do  not  think  that  the  duke  was  told  that  there 


XII 


was  not  a  man  in  Calais  who  would  accuse  any  one   of  them 
before  the  Council." 

Lord  Lisle,  however,  expected  great  things  after  the  duke's 
return  to  England.  Still  "  it  is  safe  and  true  to  say  that  he 
thought  that  the  duke  was  long  in  sending  authority  to 
'winnow  '  certain  soldiers  out  of  the  town,  and  to  hang  others, 
for  the  Deputy  had  sworn  many  an  oath  that  he  would  cut  the 
throats  of  forty  of  their  number  or  would  cut  his  own.  This 
was  not  because  any  soldier  had  done  any  hurt  to  the  Deputy, 
as  everyone  can  understand  since  the  law  empowered  him,  as  I 
believe,  to  winnow,  hang,  or  punish  such  as  did  ought  against 
the  Council  of  Calais.  It  is,  therefore,  .safe  to  say  that  no  one 
had  been  guilty  of  opposing  either  the  Deputy  or  his  Council,  or 
the  Council  of  the  king,  but  according  to  the  general  opinion 
and  impression  the  Deputy  was  angry  because  the  soldiers  did 
not  die  faster,  as  he  received  twenty  or  forty  florins  for  the 
place  of  every  one  that  died.  Aye,  he  would  often  accept  the 
money  of  two  or  three  [applicants]  before  the  soldier  lying  ill 
was  dead.  He  was  angry  with  others  because  they  would  not 
lend  his  lordship  money,  and  did  not  make  presents  to  his  lady"" 
&c.,  &c.  (fol.  5426).  All  that  happened  on  the  other  side  of  the 
English  Channel  since  the  advent  of  our  author  into  Calais  is 
reported  with  so  much  detail  that  this  part  of  his  History  cannot 
fail  to  add  to  our  knowledge.  The  second  half  of  the  manuscript 
should  be  published  in  its  entirety. 

The  passage  quoted  in  this  Catalogue  (p.  221)  about  Owen 
Glyndx^r  roaming  at  early  dawn  on  one  of  the  mountain  slopes, 
where  he  meets  the  Abbot  of  Valle  Crucis,  affords  the  best 
explanation  yet  offered  of  the  sudden  disappearance  of  Owen 
who  shared  the  superstitions  of  his  age  s,nd  believed  in  the 
"prophecies."  Since  the  Abbot  hails  him  as  a  "man  who  has 
appeared  a  hundred  years  before  his  time "  it  is  clear  that  he 
cannot  be  the  promised  deliverer  of  his  land  from  the  yoke  of 
the  Saxon.  His  late  reverses  confirm  him  in  this  conviction. 
He  loses  faith  in  his  mission,  and  straightway  vanishes  from 
the  sight  of  men  like  the  mists  of  the  Dee  with  the  risino- 
of  the  sun. 

Manuscript  131,  though  written  in  verse,  has  more  value  as 
history   than    as    poetry.      It    shows    how    hard  the    Roman 


Catholic  faith  died  in  North  Wales  ;  and  the  fact  that  nearly 
all  those  who  wrote  (between  ItSOO  and  1618)  in  defence  of 
the  old  faith  chose  to  remain  unknown  is  not  without  its 
significance. 

The  petition  of  1594  for  permission  to  hold  an  Eistcdvod  is 
prnited  for  the  first  time  at  the  end  of  this  Catalogue  (p.  293). 
it  is  instructive  for  the  light  it  throws  on  the  manner  of 
conducting  this  festival  in  the  sixteenth  century,  when  there 
were  no  annual  gatlierings  and  money  prizes  as  in  our  day. 
It  cannot  be  said  that  any  sordid  element  entered  into  the 
contests  of  those  days,  for  even  the  silver  model  of  "  chair," 
or  "  harp,"  or  "  cn^tli,"  or  "  tongue  "  won  by  poet  or  musician 
was  not  given  to  the  successful  competitor  to  keep,  but 
"  remained  in  the  hands  of  gentlemen  not  professed  in  any  of 
those  sciences."  Members  of  the  Mestyn  family  were  particularly 
distinguished  among  these  gentlemen,  and  the  "  harp  "  won  at 
the  Caerwys  Eistedvod  of  1568  may  still  be  seen  in  the  Mostyn 
Hall  libi'ary.  Ti'e  reference  to  the  Statute  of  Griffiik  ap  Kynan 
is  also  interesting.  If  we  refer  to  the  charges  of  Sion  Tudyr* 
we  see  one  reason  for  the  strong  language  of  the  Proclamation, 
and  the  necessity  for  "  inventing "  something  like  the  Statute 
of  Griffith  to  put  down  "  rogues  and  vagabonds."  Those  who 
drew  up  the  "  Statute,"  unfortunately  for  them,  forgot  that 
some  of  the  "  24  metres,"  about  which  it  legislates,  were  not 
in  existence  till  Griffith  ap  Kynan  had  been  at  rest  for  three 
hundred  years.  It  is  no  wonder,  therefore,  that  the  termin- 
ology is  modern,  that  there  is  no  mention  of  the  "  Statute  "  in 
the  Life  of  Griffitht  and  the  older  known  manusci'ipts. 

It  is  not  proposed  at  present  to  review  the  other  manuscripts 
in  this   first  part  of  the  Catalogue,  because  they  contain  many 

*  According  to  Sion  Tudyr,  tlie  bards  were  prone  to  fabricate  ancient  pedifrrees 
for  upstart  families,  and  to  praise  all  and  sundry  for  a  consideration  (p.  1856). 
There  is  also  a  much  older  allusion  to "  the  manner  of  the  bards"  differinn- from 
that  of"  History  "  (p.  63, 1.21).  But  this  is  not  enough  to  account  for  the  sad  and 
evil  days  which  Simwnt  Vychau  laments  as  having  fallen  on  the  bards  (p.  250/i). 
The  Lords  Marchers  and  those  in  authority  spoke  English  ;  the  more  infiuerit'al 
families  in  Wales,  consequently,  gave  up  speaking  Welsh  more  and  more,  and  thus 
gradually  but  surely  lost  touch  with  their  surroundings,  and,  therefore,  their  sympathies 
with  the  ancient  ways  and  customs.  They  could  no  longer  understand  the  eulogies 
of  themselves,  but  they  did  understand  that  the  bards  were  numerous  and  their  fees 
grievous.  Thus  it  is  that  a  diflference  of  language  raises  an  impassable  barrier,  and 
"barren  hate,  sour-eyed  disdain,  and  discord"  enslave  the  hearts  and  minds  of 
men. 

f  See  Peniarth  MS.  17"Hengwrt  406,  written  in  (he  first  half  of  the  xnith 
century. 

e     871.30.  h 


subjects  in  common  with  mimuscripts  in  other  'collections.  It 
is  therefore  thought  best  to  have  one  Index  and  one  General 
Introduction  in  order  to  facilitate  reference  and  avoid  repetitions. 

The  in'thography  and  many  of  the  special  characters  of  the 
manuscripts  have  been  reproduced.  The  practice  of  under- 
dotting  u,  c,  c),  1,  and  t,  to  represent  the  sounds  of  \v,  ch,  (1,  tt, 
and  th,  respectively,  will  be  familiar  to  readers  of  Athravaeth 
Gristnogcnvl*  or  the  Grammar*  of  Griffith  Roberts.  What  we 
suppose  to  be  the  liolograph  manuscript  of  William  Kynwal 
shows  another  method  of  using  the  dot.f  The  fact  that  3  1  was 
employed  290  years  ago,  by  John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy,  to 
denote  the  sound  of  ng  will  probably  cause  surprise  among 
students  of  phonetics  ;  he  also  wrote  ij  and  rgj  in  place  of  ngh 
and  m/i.  The  character  6  is  an  alternative  form  of  lu  in  vellum 
manuscripts  ;  and  J  and  j  serve  to  differentiate  the  setni-vowel  in 
^olo,  feuan,  jawn,  &c.  from  the  vowel  in  such  words  as  /van, 
and  iag.  The  double  use  of  v  to  represent  both  the  vowel  u  and 
the  consonant /=i'§  is  calculated  to  distress  tho.?e  unaccustomed 
to  old  books  and  manuscripts.  Though  v  played  this  double 
part,  initially,  as  early  as  the  Xiiith  century,  yet  its  general 
substitution  for  u  dates  from  the  decay  of  writing  consequent 
on  the  rise  of  the  art  of  printing.  The  scribes,  finding  it  difficult 
to  distinguish  the  form  of  their  ^^  from  their  n,  wrote  v  for  the 
vowel.  We  aho  come  across  other  devices  between  the  years 
1540  and  1640,  such  as  li,  fi,  u,  ii,  li,  v,  -0^,  v  which  all  represent 
the  vowel  u.  Other  difficulties  arise  from  the  use  of  i,y,%i,  or  u, 
without  mucl)  discrimination  :  for  example,  i  mae,  kar?/  i  rwy,  y\i, 
Dt/w,  dvn,  elfud,  Gritffwt,  trigared,  for  tlic  usual  y  mae,  karii  yv 
wy,  it,  Diiw,  di/n,  elf  ?/d,  Griffith,  trwgare^.  Wliun  the  vowel  is 
obscure,  as  in  unaccented  syllables,  we  meet  such  extreme  varia- 
tions as  an-,  en-,  yn-,  vn-wedig.  However  such  vagaries  do 
not  occur  in  the  best  manuscripts   of  the  xvith  century.     The 


*  The  iiractice  of  oveidotliiig  p  and  underdotting  t,  dates  after  the  publication 
of  these  works. 

t  See  pages  2G-.S.')  of  this  Catalogue.  W.  Kynwal  grew  tired  of  liis  own  device 
before  finishing  the  MS. 

X  See  pp.  111-13  of  Catalogue. 

§  In  many  MSS.  a  distinction  is  made  in  the  formation,  the  consonant  being 
ivritten  lilie  an  italic  v,  and  the  vowel  with  a  loop  resembling  that  of  script  6,  but 
bending  forward  much  more.  John  Jones  writes  both  charncters  ali"Ke,  but  in  some 
MSS.  puts  a  dot  in  the  angle  of  the  vowel,  thus  V  •  The  ordinary  scribe,  however, 
makes  no  distinction,  hence  such  strange  looking  words  as  vv,  vvn  vvvd  -  fu  fun' 
ufydd. 


orthography  of  these  being  a  natural  growtli  is  at  once  scientific 
and  historically  accurate  in  all  essentials,  as  well  as  being  much 
more  nearly  phonetic  than  its  representative  of  to- day.  The 
reader  of  modern  Welsh  will  do  well  to  note  and  digest  the 
differences.  He  will  look  in  vain  for  such  uncouth  agglomera- 
tion of  letters  as  in  "  yng  ng&vdd,"  "  ynry  NgYiymvu,"  "  yin 
mhellder,"  because  the  yn  is  a  proclitic,  and  consonants  should 
not  be  doubled  in  unaccented  syllables.*  The  spurious  forms 
"  ei,"  "  ein,"  "  eich,"  make  their  earliest  appearance  in  the  holo- 
graphs of  Bishop  Davies  and  William  Salesbury,  and,  though 
introduced  into  the  first  editions  of  the  New  and  Old  Testaments, 
the  correct  forms  i  (his,  her),  yn  (our),  ych  (yours)  prevailed  in 
manuscripts  for  another  century,  and  are  still  met  with  in  the 
letters  of  the  "  uneducated."  If  the  modern  readerf  will  bear 
these  remarks  in  mind  he  will  find  no  difficulty  in  reading  any 
part  of  the  Catalogue. 

Finally,  we  have  much  pleasure  in  recording  our  warm  thanks 
to  Lord  Mostyn  for  facilitating  the  work  of  Cataloguing,  for 
placing  a  considerable  portion  of  the  manuscripts  in  the  Bodleian 
Library,  for  consulting  the  conveniences  of  the  writer  in  many 
ways,  nnd  for  much  personal  kindness. 

J.  GWENOGVRYN  EVANS. 

Oxford,  January  1898. 

*  The  alternative  practice  of  writing  "  yn  ughymru,"  "  jn  ngardd,"  "  yu 
mhellder,"  betrays  a  hopeless  ignorance  of  the  laws  of  Welsh  mutations,  ff  we 
cannot  follow  the  practice  of  the  MSS.  hy  writing  ynghymru,  yngardd,  yniwedd, 
jmangor,  ymon,  ymhellter,  »&c.,  why  not  adopt  the  example  set  by  13p.  Morgan  in 
his  Bible  and  write  jng-Hymru,  yng-ardd,  ym-hellter,  &c.  No  one  dreams  of 
writing  "  ang  nghydf od,"  "  am  mharchus,"  "  an  nhraethol,"  yet  the  cases  are  precisely 
parallel,  an  and  yn  being  both  proclitics  and  causing  the  same  mutations. 

t  The  South-Wahan  reader  must  remember  further  the  "  mischievi'ous "  and 
"  fami/ous  "  habit  of  inserting  a  jod  which  is  practised  freely  in  the  northern 
dialects,  not  merely  after  diphthongal  syllables,  but  in  such  words  as  /ach  =  ach,  &c. 
But  the  miawn  =  mywn  is  probably  correct  historically.  The  letter  h  is  also  much 
abused  in  the  MSS.  written  in  North  Wales  and  Glamorgan. 


€     87130. 


XVI 


BRIBE   SUMMARY   OF   CONTENTS. 


Adrian  ag  Epig,  Ymaiaaii,  Vo. 
Alexander,  Ystori  Alistys  yn  kyng- 

hori,  224. 
Areith  J.  Goch,   114,   140;  J.  B. 

Hir,  115;  Wgan,  2-12. 
Arms,  Coats  of,    17,  26-35,  47-8, 

52,  115,  125,  139,  148,  212-13, 

222,  286. 
Astrology,  Astronomy,  14,  16,  17, 

25-26,  130,  140,  170. 
Autograph  Manuscripts  : 

Guttyn  Owen,  MS.  88,  -written 
1488-9. 

Ellis  Griffith,  MS.  158. 

Richard     Mostyn,      MS.      129, 
written  in  1574. 

Dd:  ap  Jenkin,  MS.  159,  written 
1586,  pp.  222-4. 

Wm:     Kynwal,   ?     MS.       Ill, 

written  circa  1575. 
Syr   Tho:    ap   Wiliam,*   MSS. 

110  and  204,  pp.  23-6,276. 
Eogcr  Morris,   ?  MSS.   113*  & 
135,  written  circa  1595,  pp. 
47-52,  118-9. 
David  Jones  of  Llanfair  D.C., 

?MS.  110  (p.  216,  &c.). 
Thomas  Jones,  ?  MS.  212b. 
Thomas  Prys,  ?MS.  112,  written 

before  1631. 
John    Jones,    MSS.    131,    133, 
and  212",  Pt.  HI.,    written 
1G05-23,  pp.  87-97,   100-15, 
291. 
J.  D.  Laes,  MSS.  130,  165,  and 
possibly,    1,  96  (pp.    25-64), 
and  211. 
Robert  Vaughan,  MSS.  110  (p. 
112,  &c.),  and  136,  died  1666. 
R.  Jones,  MS.  163. 
Robin  Dii  o  Von,  MS.  164. 


Bede,  278. 

Beirft,  Dull  y,  63,  185,  their  burial 

places,  25. 
Boned  y  Saint,  54-5. 

Botanology,  15. 

Bown  of  Hampton,  Ystoria,  119. 
Brenin  cadarna,  Y  xxiv.,  139. 
Breuftwyd  Grono  Du,  25,  105. 
Breuflwyd  ILywelyn  Goch,  23. 
Breudwyd  Maxen,  24. 
British  Chronology,  119-21. 

Bruts  : 

Dares  Phrygius,  23,  56  (twice), 

222. 
B.  y  Brenhined,  23,  56   (twice), 

63,  222,  277. 
B.  y  Tywyssogiou,  57-62,  126, 

222. 
B.  y  Saeson,  277. 
Cadw  Doeth,  140. 
Calendars,  14,  16-7,  224, 
Cantreds  and  Commotes  of  Wales, 

25,  115. 
Cas-bethe,  23-4,  139  ;  -Synion,  72. 
Kerdwrieth,  ILyvyr.      See  Gram- 
mars. 
Chronicles,  222,  278. 
Darogan  Beli,  25  ;  MerSin,  104. 
Dewis-bethe,  23-4,  95,  134, 139. 
Drudwas  ap  Treffin,  168. 
Dwnn,  Griffith,  274-5. 
Dyved,  boundary  of,  288. 
Eistedvod,  The,  274,  291-5. 
Elucidarius,  139. 

Fliting  poems,  10-11,  8S,   143-4, 
150,  163,  186-7,  224-6,  280. 

Fortune,  Wheel  of,  14. 
Gildas,  276. 


*  Syr  Thomas  ap  Wiliam,  vel  Tho:  Wiliems,  physicwr,  was  a  contemporary  of 
Koger  Mon'is.  Their  handwritings  at  one  period  bear  a  strong  likeness.  A  certain 
MS.  in  Shirburn  Castle  is  attributed  to  Eoger  Morris  :  this  is  from  tlie  same  pen  as 
Mostyn  MS.  1 13,  which  is,  therefore,  wrongly  assigned  to  Thomas  Wiliems  in  this 
Catalogue  (p.  47).  T.  Wiliems  did  not,  as  far  as  our  memory  serves  us,  adopt  the 
plan  of  underdotting  i.i,  c,  1,  &c.,  except  in  the  case  of  his  transcript  of  the  Grammar 
of  Gr:  Boberh.     See  Peniarth  MS.  62,  pp.  120-41. 


XVll 


Geoffrey  of  Monmouth.   See  Bruts 
y  Brenliined. 

Grammars,  23,  24,  274. 

Gr:  ap  Kynan,  Statute  of,  15-6, 

140. 
Guido  o  dre  Vieu,  223. 
Gwell,  Y  XXIV.,  71. 
Gwydir  Family,  History  ol',  273. 
Heraldry.     See  Coats  of  Arms. 

History.       See     Bruts,     British, 
Chronicles,  and  Ystoria. 

History  from  "  Adam  to  Asclobi- 

totus,"  17. 
History   of  England    and   Wales, 

214-21. 

Holy  Grail,  274-6. 
Howel  Da,  Laws  of,  278-9. 
Letters    (Annerch,   24,    125),   74, 
119-21,  195,  203,  213,  224. 

Iiyvyr  Berth  Du,  46  =  MS.   148 

(p.  197). 
ILyvyr  Brithdir,  101. 
ILyvyr  Koch  Nanneu,  131-51. 
ILyvyr  Gwyn  CorsygeJol,  161-68. 
ILyvyr  Gwyn  Hergest,  25. 
ILyvyr  Gwyn  Khyflerch.  118. 
ILyvyr  Gwyra,  259-64. 
ILyvyr  Havodweu,  222. 
ILyvyr  John  Middleton,  74  =  MS. 

147. 
ILyvyr  ILynwenueu,  111. 
ILyvyr  S.  Malhews  o  Ruabon,  212. 
ILyvyr  Syr  Hir  o  Gremsuam,  113. 
ILyvyr  T.  ap  Rhys,  1 05. 
ILyvyr  Wm:  Middleton,  108. 
ILywarch  Hen,  24. 
Mabinogion,  119, 
Martin,  Life  of  Saint,  17. 
Medical,  15-7,  26,  80,  255. 


Maxen,  MerSin.      See  BreuSwyd, 
Darogan. 

Moftygon  Mydvei,  reference  to,  15. 

Meters,  The  24  Welsh,  138. 

Morgan  abad  Ystrad  Flur,  288. 

Morgannwg,  Boundary  of,  J  287. 

Mostyn  Family,  Eulogies  of  the, 
18-22. 

Nennius,  278. 

Nicodemus,  The  Gospel  of,  24. 

Owen   Glyndwr,    9i,    132,     178,. 
220-1. 

Palmistry,  14. 

Pedigrees,   17,  47-55,  63,  U5-8, 
130,  140, 145,  148,  223,  286-90. 

Peredur,  119. 

Planetary  tables,  14,  16,  17. 

Planispheres.     See  Rotae. 

Prices  of  Corn,  69,  70,  88^9. 

Prophecies,  100-14. 

Prophwydoliaeth  yr  Eryr,  104. 

Proverbs,  47,  64-6,  71,  75,  86,  98,. 
140,  142-3,  223,  276. 

Eotae,  14-17. 

Saints,  16-7,  25,  54-5,  139. 

Salesbury,  Wm:  23-4,  48,  50,  275, 
295. 

Sheriffs  of  Cardiganshire,  List  of 
the,  223. 

Silvester,  Ystori,  223. 

Taliesin,  Ystoria,  264  ;  TrioeS,  98. 
Thvs,  Y  XIII.,  223. 
Triads,  71,  72,  98,  139,  224. 
Trioefl  y  Beira,  23. 

Unlucky  days,  16. 

Ymborth  yr  Eneid,  25. 

Ystoria.      See   Alexander,   Bown, 
Bruts,  Chronicles,  History. 


XVlll 


A  LIST  OF  THOSE  POETS  WHOSE  EESPECTIVE  WORKS 
ARE  PARTIALLY  COLLECTED  TOGETHER. 


D.  ap  Gwiliin,  1,  150,  167-8,  169, 
176,  204,  225,  245,  279-86. 

D.  ap  ^euan  ap  Rhys,  236. 

D.   ILwyd    ap    IL'n   ap     Griffith, 
241-:^. 

D.  Nanmor,  123-4,  228-9. 

Dd :  Trevor,  238. 

Deio  ap  ^euan  Du,  237. 

Edmwiid  Prys,  163-4,  187. 

Griffith  Dd:  Du,  129. 

Griffith  Grug,  150,  225. 

Griffith  Hiraethog,  233-4,  251. 

Gntto'r  Glynn,   6-9,   172-4,  209, 
229-30. 

Ho:  Dd:  ap  J.  ap  R.,  236. 

Ho:  Reiuallt,  235-6. 

]ferwerth  Vynglwyd,  240. 

ifeuan  ap  Tudyr  Penllyn,  122-3. 

folo  Goch,  178,  2.34-5. 


J.  Dd:  Laes,  21. 

L.  Glyn  Cothi,  238-40. 

Lewis  M6n,  240-1,  245. 

ILowaen,  232-3. 

Mredya  ap  Rhys,  238. 

Rhys  ap  Kadwaladr,  20-1. 

Rhys  Jones,  259-64. 

Robert  ap  Ifan,  89-90. 

Robin  Du  o  Von,  265-7. 

Sion  Philip,  10-11. 

Sion  Tudyr,  9-12,  81,  230-1. 

Sion  Kent,  47,  85-6. 

SyrDd:  ILoyd,  129. 

Thomas    Prys,    1,    35-46,  192-3, 
256-7. 

Tudur  Aled,  12-4,  226-8. 

Tudur  Penllyn,  121-2,  236-7. 

Wm:  Kynwal,  1-6,  26-35,  153-5, 
163-4,  187. 

William  TLfn,  224-3.  232. 


3  »=  -ch,  -erob,  &c.,  as  in  GoeA,  verch,  &c. 

II  denotes  that  the  JIS.  is  imperfect  and  -wants  what  goes  before,  if  placed  at  the 
beginning  of  a  line  ;  or  what  shonld  follow,  if  placed  at  the  end  of  an  extract. 
At-terisks  *  *  *  *  are  used  when  a  portion  of  a  page  or  of  a  line  is  wanting, 

(    )  enclose  later  additions  in  the  MS.,  and  [     ]  insertions  by  the  Editor. 


CORRECTIONS. 


23,  ].  16.  For  "  by  T.  W.  before  he  began  "  read  "  after  he  began." 

64,  1.  2.  For  "  oed  yr  argh  "  read  "  oed  yr  argl." 

1 24,  1.  33.  For  "  liber  est  mens  "  read  "  liber  est  mens." 

1 70, 1.  2 1 .  For  "  Uywia  ddawn  ieddaw  "  read  "  lly wia  ddawn  ieddiaw.' 

171, 1.  9.  For  "  an  kerain  "  read  "ain  kerain." 

171,1.  11.  For  "  kevaidd  "  read  "  krvaidd." 

224,  1.  32.  For  "  circa  1600  "  read  "  circa  1620." 


DESCRIPTIVE  CATALOGUE  OF  MANUSCRIPTS  IN  THE 
WELSH   LANGUAGE. 


MOSTYN  LLBRARY. 


MS.  1.  Cywydeu  AC  Odlbu  by  Thomas  Prys,  Diivid  ap  Gwilim, 
Wiliam  Kynwal,  Gutto'r  Glynn,  Sion  Tudyr, and  Tudyr  Aled.  Paper; 
18^  X  7  inches ;  896  pages  ;  xviith  century  ;  bound  in  white  vellum. 

Pages  1-18.  Blank. 

Pages  19-141  contain  106  Cywydeu  and  6  Odleu  by  Captain  Thomas 
Prys,  of  Plas  lolyn,  Denbighshire,  who  died  1634.  These  compositions 
seem  to  be  direct  copies  of  those  in  Mostyn  MS.  112,  q.v.  infra. 

Pages  142-194.  Blank. 

Pages  195-295  contain  158  Cywydeu  by  David  ap  Gwilim  tran- 
scribed from  Mostyn  MS.  212.  {Sec  below.)  The  copy  follows  the 
same  order  as  its  original,  except  that  it  inserts  numbers  98,  99,  100 
of  MS.  212  after  number  21.  It  also  omits  numbers  39,  60,  78-85, 
856,  86,  96,  97,  171-176. 

Pages  296-306.  Blank. 

Poetical  Works  of  William  Cynwal.  Pages  307-392  contain 
poems  numbered  respectively  1-78  which  are  transcribed  from  Mostyn 
MS.  Ill,  q.v.  The  figures  at  the  end  of  various  poems  in  MS.  Ill 
refer  to  the  number  of  the  poem  in  MS.  1.  Pages  393-498  contain  the 
following  additional  poems  by  W.  Cynwal,  as  well  as  a  few  by  other 
writers  whose  names  are  appended  to  their  compositions.  The  poems 
are  numbered  respectively  : — 

79  Moliant  Sion  Gr :  o  gefnamlwch  yn  llyn 

Y  Barwnfab  or  winfaingc a 

Trwy  Eigion  byd  trig  yn  benn 

80  Marwnad  Sian  merch  Morys  ap  Elistan  ap  Morys 

Rhy  fer  yw'r  oes  mewn  gloes  glau b 

Enaid  Sian  garr  bronn  duw  sydd 

81  C.  yn  dangos  lie  i  priodwyd  plant  Pyrs  Mostyn  a  Dalacrau 

Y  carw  gwindraul  caer  gandrws     ....  c 
AMmod  hir  yvv  mam  ai  tad 

82  Marwnad  Mredydd  ap  Gromv  ap  Gr  : 

Y  mann  ni  bydd  llawenydd  mwy d 

Naf  ynys  nef  yw  enaid 

83  Y  fun  uddfwyn  fain  weddus     ....  e 
Penn  feinioes  fydd  pann  fynnych 

84  Marwnad  Owen  Gr :  o  benn  Machno 

AnnodJ  iawn  yn  nydd  eunyd f 

Nefoedd  "j  Owain  ifangc 

85  Y  dewr  ifangc  diryfedd g 

Am  y  fort  yma  a  fydd 

86  Moliant  S'  Lewis  qffeiriad  Corwen 

Y  lien  gwirion  ilawn  gariad h 

Dwy  oes  na  wypom  d'eisiau 

e     87130.  A 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    1. 

87  Cowydd  J  ofyn  bwa  J  Bxjrs  ap  Siati-Oimn.dvos  Wowc  Gr:  , , 

Pa  vrc  gorau  pur  gariad.     ......      •  * 

GyiTodd  yt  fawl  o  gaii.«id 

88  Y  Ueian  wych  a  lliw  ISTonn * 

Ath  gar  i   eitha  gweryd 

89  Moliant  Tomas  Wi/nn  o  Lann  Rust 

Y  Hew  mawr  ar  gallu  mwy <? 

Wyth  einioes  a  fo  ith  wyneb 

90  Moliant  Sion  Salbri 

Pa  enw  uriol  paun  teiriaith     ......  ■<? 

^geinoes  drwy  ogoniant 

91  Moliant  Sian  verch  Tomas  ap  Robert  Acres  y  JLwijn  dedwydd 

Y  ddistaw  liael  M-eddusdeg     .  , e 

Am  Eossier  fawr  ymiyson  .         .    .. 

92  Moliant  S'  Eduiart  Pilstwn  o  Emral 

Pa  wr  gorau  pur  gfiirwir f 

A  byth  ar  godiad  y  bocli 

93  Purdan   n&f  pardwn  afiaclt     .     .     .     .  -g 
Penn  f einioes  pann  fynno 

9-J  Moliant  Wowc  TLwyd  o  JFoxol  •         ■  • 

Y  Hew  chwyrn  mewn  llu  a  ch§,d  .....  h 
^t  einioes  hyd  hynny 

95   Cowydd  i  ofyn  Caseg  gann  Sion  Powys 

Y  Hew  gwyn  a  He  i  ganu    ......  t 

Eurnod  dwys  aruad  eisiau 

/96  Marwnad  Alis  ferch  W"  Mredydd  o  Lanfair  Dole  Aaearn        : 
ILanfair  He  bu'r  Hawcnfyd     ......  k 

Gwae'r  byd  gau  ar  ei  bcdd 

97  Marwnad  Sion  William 

Cwyno'r  vvyl  nid  canu'c  wyf / 

Ai  adel  yn  hir  oediawg 

98  Pwys  hael  cu  pa  sawl  cowydd m 

Curio  mewn  purdan  cariad 

99  Moliant  Sion  Gruffudd 

Y  pendefig  paun  difost n 

A  saith  einioes  ith  wyueb 

100  Cowydd  J  ofyn  Bwa.  J  Sion  TV'"  dros  S'  Sion  Lewis  Ficar 

JLann  Vfudd 

Y  Hew  trwm  a  Hu  tramawr o 

A  gweddi  yn  dragwyddol 

101  Coicydd  J  Sion  Salbri  o  Ferain  pann  ocdd  glaf 

fesu  dy  nerth  ystyn  awr p 

Yn  gyd  a  Setli  gadu  Sion 

102  Moliant  Sion  Prys  o  Eglwyseg 

Y  por  gvvastad  per  gwestivvn « 

Ath  ado  penrhaith  ydwyd 

103  Cowydd  i  ofyn  Hwch  J  Domas'ap  Jeuan  dros  Jenan  ap  Robert 

Pa  ryw  filwr  pur  felyn     ....  ,• 

J  chwi  i  chael  eych  hwch  eilwaith 


WILLIAM   KYXWAL'S   POEMS.  g 

,104  Moliant  William  Eutun  o  Riwabon 

Y  dewr  gwrol  dur  giiras     '..'.''..  a 
Aur  hebawg  Jor  Ehiwabon 

105  Marwnad  feiian  dylynior 

Duw  a  roes  nior  dyrys  maith     ....  6 

Ei  enaid  di-aw  yno  i  trig 

106  Y  gwr  ar  fronu  ego.red .  c 

Ai  fod;l  ddiiw  ai  tkddeuant 

107  Cowydd  i  Sion  Eutun  or  Widdgrig 

Pwy  'n  codi  paun  cadarii     .....  d 

Dau  canoes  a  duw  cenyd 

108  MoUant  jf  Sion  Lewys  ap  Evan  ap  Dafydd 

Pwy  yw  'r  ustus  pur  ystod     .....  e 

:  Di  rus  hydd  Deiroes  Adda 

109  Marwnad  Sioji  Salbri  o  Leweni 

Troes  dwr  Noe  trist  or  un  wedd ^  f 

^r  rhaiu  y  sydd  rhann  oes  Lir 

1 10  Moliant  M'  Parri  o  Dreffynon 

Y  gwr  gorau  pwir  gariad g 

Ceidwad  wyd  duw   cadwo   d'oes 

111  Cowydd  i  ofyri  pump  ar  hiy am  oHefrod  i  Ed :    Trevor 

gann  wyr  o  Feirionydd  a  Threfdldwyn 

Y  ddwy  sir  mae  'n  weddus  s6n h 

J  bawb  or  rhain  be  bai  iliaid 

112  Cowydd  J  ofyn  ^  o  gesig  gann  8  o  wyr 

V  '  '''     Y  gvvyr  lien  a  gar  y  llu '  t 

Gwrdd  fael  cedd  gerdd  iawl  uddyiit 

113  Moliant  D'  Elis  Prys  ,    __ 

Pa  wr  b^th  pwy  i  roi  barn k. 

'    Cann  wyl  bouh  yn  cynnal  bj^d 

1 14  Cowydd  J  ofyn  cleddyf.f  Robert,  ap  Howel  Fychan  o  LaniwUyn 
,-' 1  dros  Gadwaladr  ap.Rhydderch 

Y  Hew  calonog  llawgn     . ,      / 

Gyrr  weddi  ag  arwyddion 

■  Wb.Covk/dd  J  ofyn  miliaist  J  Sinn  ap  Rys  JVynn  o  Langion 
■^    ,._     ,       drqs  Tomas  Cadwaladr 

Y  Hew  cain  alliiawg  hydd    .....  m 
Gwrdd  wych  utbr  gprdd  i  chwitbau 

116  Moliant  Owain  ap  Sion  o  Lann  Jwllyn 

Pa  eryr  glan  pnr  aur  gledd     ..'....  » 

Bo  eich  enw  Bwbacb  Wynedd 

117  Cowydd  dychan  i  Forgan  Eurych 

Pa  wr  bael  yn  peri  hedd     ..,'...  "       '      o 

Biddu  'oer'  bcid  yn  eurych      , 

118  Cowydd  i  Forys  Wynn  o  wydir  i  ddioJch  am  Lyfr  . 

Y  Jlew  doeth  yn  lie  ei  da'd     .■'.■'..,.  P 
Pais  dur  firw'  post  'yryri 

119  Moliant  Sion  Prys  or  dderwen 

Y  Hew  enaid  lioU  wynedd     ...,'..  "  q 
Cynal  barch  c'anol  y  b^d                                    ,  ,,  .r 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   1. 

120  Cowydd  J  ofyn  ysgarff  J  ferch  Rys  Wunn  ap  Dd.  Anwyl  dros 

Wm.  Mredydd 

Per  yw'r  orau  per  eiirawedd <* 

Jddi  gerdd  ewig  urddas 

121  Cowydd  J  dy  newydd  Catrin  Wynn  ferch  Hari  Salbri  a 

wnaed  yn  llan  Ddyfnog 

Y  ty  gwynn  tec;  o  Wynedd "• 

Draw  ig(;iioes  Dragwn  ^al 

122  Moliajit  Lew'ys  JLwyd  o  fal 

Y  Hew  gwyr  oil  ag  arial <*■ 

Duw  'r  ^essu  ai  law  drosod 

123  Cowydd  f  ofyn  Clog  J  Wm  :  Cynwal  dros  Sion  Madog 

Y  gwr  sad  mewn  gramadeg '.  <* 

jfffrwyth  0  fawl  a  ffoeth  fo  jfeuan  Penllyn 

124  Atteb  :    Bwriais  yndiwys  dwys  y  w  dig e- 

Glaw  ai  cur  eb  y  gl6g  honn 

125  Cowydd  J  ofyn  Clog  gan  Byrs  Gruff  add 

Y  dewr  enwog  da  ei  rinwedd     ....  f 
Deiroes  penn  rhychor  dewrion 

126  Cowydd  J  ofyn  huling  gwely  J  Gatrin  Wynn  o  Ferain 

Y  fun  waed  ^eirll  fanod  wedd ff 

Dad  hir  enw  dod  hir  Einioes 

127  Cefais  enw  cyfa  synwyr h 

Yna  y  rhawg  ir  fuQ  ai  rhoes 

128  C.  J  ofyn  Corn  J  William  Cynwal  dros  Roh  :  Prys  o  Eglwyseg 

Y  ddaii  fardd  ddioferddysg t 

Gorau  mab  i  garu  medd 

Yw  Huw  llyn  yn  holl  Wynedd 

Mwy  i  car*  ddidreiswar  draserch  •  -w^iuiam  Cynwal. 

Ddas  o  fawn  noi  ddewis  ferch     .     .     . 
Pari  ddel  mwya  poen  ei  ddwyn 

W.  JLun  Jeuan  tew  Sion  Philip  Howel  Ceiriog 

129  Atteb :   Y  gwrdd  fardd  gwraidd  y  fowrddysg     ....         k 

Garw  i  gyd  heb  iin  gair  gwir     .     .     . 

Pyth  i  gorn  am  y  fath  gerdd  Huw  llyn'T,  W.  Cynwal 

130  C.J  ofyn  12  o  heffrod  gan  12  o  wyr  dros  Ed  :\  Wynn  a  Foelyrch 

Deuddeg  a  fu  'n  dioddef t 

Dri  oi  pwyth  di-wy  hap  weithian 

131  Moliant  Tomas  Morys 

Cornor  dros  oror  y  sydd j» 

Treigl  hoff  enw  triagi  fl'ynniant 

132  Moliant  Dafydd  JLwyd  ' 

Wrth  cdrych  gwiw  ddryeh  y  gw^r     ....  » 

Dewis  wr  dwy  oes  hirion 

133  Cowydd  J  ofyn  hanger  J  Sr.  Huw  Pyrs  dros  Tomas  Fyihan 

Y  Hen  hael  oil  un  helynt o- 

Mr  Huw  senw  meistri  fynwyr 

134  Marwnad  Dafydd  Maenan,  Delynior 

Darfu  llawenydd  dirfawr p 

Duw  gwir  enw  duw  'r  enaid  • 


WILLIAM  KYNWAL'S   POEMS.  5 

135  Moliant  Sion  TLwyd  o  Lteyn  y  maen 

Y  gwr  or  Mars  geirwir  mawr a 

Ar  diaws  oil  or  dr^s  allan 

136  Marwnad  Robert  ap  Howel  ]Lwyd 

Dig  y\v  brad  dygwn  brydnr     ....  b 

Aeth  duw  a  chydymaith  da 

137  Moliant  Sion  ILwyd  o  Lwyn  y  maen 

Y  gwr  or  Mars  geirwir  mawr c 

Bo  yt  oes  a  bowyd  hir 

138  Moliant  Dafydd  JLwyd 

Yr  oen  gwynti  o  rann  gweiniaid     ....  d 

Adwyo  mo  blwy  Dowyn 

139  Marwnad  S'  Edwart  Pilstwn  o  Emral 

Dirfawr  i  bawb  i  derfyn     ....  c 

Oeswr  ydiw   S"^  Edwart 

140  Mar.  Huio  ap  Mredydd  ap  Jeuan  ap  Robert  o  Ddolwyddelan 

Duw  a  wyr  fr^  waed  oer  fronn     ....  f 

Duw  a  ddug  Huw  diddig  hjAA 

141  Moliant  Marys  ap  Elisau  o  Benmorfa 

Yr  Eryr  gwar  ar  warr  gwyr     ....  g 

Chwnna  'r  beilch   banner  y   byd 

142  Cowydd  J  ofyn  crib  a  drych  J  Domas  Gruthor  gann  Meistres 

Catrin  Salbri 

Y  wraig  weddw  rowiogaidd h 

Drwy  foliant  adref  eilwaith 

143  Atteb  .•  Y  ty   a  fynn  atto  fawl t 

Weithian  i  rhoer  ei  thy  yn  rhydd  Simicnt  Fychan 

144  Cowydd  dyehan  gwrugedd 

Mawr  yw  hap   gwr  adnapai     ....  k 

Moddion  gwael  madde  ini  i  gyd     Rhys  ap  Harri  o  Ettas 

145  Atteb  :  0   gj  rrodd  un   ar   gerdd   M'ann / 

El  bydd  gwbl  o  bydd  gobaith 

146  Y  mab  ai  glod  ymhob  gwledd m 

Ag  eiddig  ffynneddig  fFydd 

Oil  i   vvj'neb  llawenydd     Rich:  ap  Bow:  ap  Da:  ap  Eitiion 

147  Atteb :  Pa  ddyn  heb   gwyn   sy  'n   dwyn  dig     ...  n 

Yw  dyddyn  farwnad  Eiddig 

148  Owdl  dyehan  Jr  llwynog 

Madog  dyun   oediog  dinwen,  wergest     ...  o 

Del  yt  bob  anras  fudwas  Fadog 

149  Marwnad  Lowri  ap  Sion  Lewis  o  Bengwern  yn  Westiniog 

Ocb  Fair  byth  anair  beth  ni  wn  gyngor     ....  p 

Oleugrair  ddisglair  yn  Haw  mair  amen 

150  Owdl  foliant  J  Sion  Salbri  aer  TLtweni 

Aer  laarchog   torchog  wyt  erchwyn q 

drwy  fy  eurchwedl  y  doi  'n  farchog 

151  Owdl  foliant  J  Sion  Conwy  o  Fotryddan 

Gann   f'rau   ^or  dewrglau   durgledd     ....  r 

Tragwyddol  dduwiol  y  glew  wrol  glan 


JiOSTYjS    MANUSCRIPT   1. 

152  Moliant  Arglwydd  Tomas  Esgob  TLann  Elwy 

Trig  arglwydd  gwiwrwydd  ragoryd     ....  tt 

A  thynn  hj  d  yr  awr  ath  enw  a  drig 

1.53  Marwnad  Sion  Salbri  aer  S'  Sion  Salbri  o  Leweni 

Sion   a  fu   darfu   awdurfaeth ^ 

Ni  feiddiai  yw  sydd  nefoedd  J  Sion 

154  Moliant,  Simwnt  ap  Rissiart  Thelwal 

Tirion  ail  Ebrou  as  obru c- 

Da  draw  ym  dariaw  yn  Ehuddlan  dirion 

155  Moliant  Pyrs  Mostyn  ar  y  2lf  mesur 

Eurnod  iaith  liynod  itli  oes d 

A  charedig  /  arferedig  /  ai  'n  anwedig  /  union  nodau 

156  Moliant  Sion  Gruffudd  ar  y  2^^  mesur 

Duw  ath  ad  oediaeth  awdur e 

A  duw  "]  waed  ir  /  J6n  hardd  yn '  liir    • 
Ar  for  a  thir  /  aur  fui'  a  tliad 

157  Moliant  Rys  ap  Huw 

Drwy  dduw  nnf  gwiriaf  ragorol / 

Tarja  yn  dy  iiertli  trwy  uq  duw  naf 

158  Trig  hiraeth  naws  gwaeth  yn  eigion  'r  ais     ....         ff 
Cai  loewawd  lierwydd  cludo  hiraeth 

159  Moliant  S'  Rys  Gruffudd  or  Penrhyn 

Urddas  y  dyrnas  cadenyd  a  ffarch h 

Eurgoed  uwch  Werddon  hir  gedwch  urddas 

160  Moliant  William  JVynn 

William  aer  William  reiolwaed  Gwynedd i 

Cydwaed  elw  am  wr  cadwed  William  Wyun    TF.  Cynwal 

Pages  499-558.  Blank. 


Ctwybeu  Gutto'r  Glynn,  pages  559-605. 
Cowydd  J  Arglwydd  Harbert 

Tri  llii  aeth  i   Gymru  gynt Jc 

Cymru  a  dry  yn  dy  raid 

Cowydd  mal  i  bu  y  niaes  ym  Mambri 

Dawns  o  Bowls  doe 'n  yspeilwyd I 

^arlltdd  uwch  no'r  llwyth  uchaf 

Cowydd  i  bias  Syr  Rissiart  Herbert  i 

A  oes  uu  pi4s  yn  Siampler ^ 

A  brawd  yr  ^arll  biau'r  drych 

Cowydd  y  Wm.  Fychan  Siambrlen  Gwynedd  *       ■ 

A  adeilio  hudoliaeth ^ 

Penn  cenedl  pennaig  Gwynedd 

Cwynfan  am  Syr  Rissiart  Gethin  Marchog  urddol       '       • 

Y  mae  glaw  am  a  glowais '  (, 

Y  Hew  dur  oil  ai  diail 

Cowydd  J  efan  ap  Enion  '  ,    a 

Y  gwrda  o  gowirdeb p 

Yw  lyed  fry  hyd  dydd  frawd  "     * 


GUTTO  il    GLYNN  S    POEMS. 

7  Moliant  Dafi/dd  TLwyd 

Af  ddydd  sul  foddus  aelwyd a 

O  gOed'  da  ef  a'  g^u  hwnn 

8  Er  treilio  punt  yn  llimdain h 

Nath  einioes  nai  ddaioni 

9  Moliant  Sion  Hanmer  o  Holtyn 

Cwncwerwyr  oedd  y  gwyr  gynt e 

Carwr  lltii  nx  cwngcwerwr  llvvryd 

10  Cow:  ir  Cinastr  a  laddodd  Jarll  Warwio  yn  y  niaes  yinarnet 

Awst  y  Has  ynghastell  i d 

A  merch  Jarll  ymreicliie  hwnn 

11  Mae  'r  tarw  mawr  or  mortmeriaid e 

Degced  wyd  dwg  fyd  iawa 

12  Moliant  Robert  ap  Jfan  Fychan  SfC. 

Ecibert  uwcli  rhiwiau  Aber f 

Ni  bwyf  unsul  heb  fenswn 

13  Coxvydd  y  pwrs 

Mawr  yw  'r  gair  am  tairodd g 

Jr  gwr  hael  nr  wraig  ai  rhoes 

14  Mynnwn  y  mod  mewn   un  mann     ....  h 
CwfF  euraid  caftb  hiroes 

15  Cowydd  ir  liyn 

Deubeth  a  red  drwy  'r  gwledydd    ....  i 

O  dda  yn  y  mars  ni  ddown  mwy 

16  Cowydd  moliant  Howel  ap  Jfan  Fychan  o  Foelyrch  ag  i 

ganmol  i  Groesdy  newydd 

Dafydd  6  braffwydd  broffwyd k 

Jw  rhoi  yn  lie  'r  hen  llys 

17  Cowydd  J  Howel  ap  Jfan  Fychan  pan  oedd  glaf 

Howel  ni  chysgaf  haeach / 

Ni  chwarddaf  oni  cherddy 

18  ILydan  oedd  gastell  Edwart rn 

Teulu  nef  ai  talo  in  J6n 

19  Dyn  wyf  doe  auafwyd « 

Taled  duw  ni  bydd  tlawd  hwnn 

20  Moliant  S'  Sion  Bwrch 

Ni  chair,  ustus  na  christiawn o 

Dyro  i  Sion  deiroes  liydd 

21  Moliant  S'  Win.  Tomas  o  Raglan  y  marchog  glds  o  Went 

Sal  rhugl  seilio  Rhaglan p 

Gem  ar  wyr  holl  Gymru  wyd 

22  Moliant  Mathew  Goch 

Pann  soiiier  in  amser  ni q 

A  gair  ILoegr  ir  gwr  How  goch 

23  Moliant  Dafydd  TLwyd  ■ 

Dafydd  mae  'r  beirdd  yn  dyfod .  r 

Anhyfryd  byd  heb  dy  benn 

24  Gynt  y  rhoed  yn   gynta  rhann .    s 

*     All  i  mab  fo  william  ynn 


MOST'/N    MANUSCRIPT  1. 

25  Moliant  Roessier  ap  Sion  Pilstwn  o  Emral 

Pwy  sy  geiclwad  teirgwlad  h^ o 

Teiroes  ar  iad  Eossier  Wynn 

26  Moliant  Howel  ap  Menrig  Fychan 

Mawr  fu  Howel  a  Meuiig o 

Aed  i  farw  i  dai  Feirig 

27  Marwnad  Harn  Dwnn 

Doe  darfu  'r  Dean  derfyu e 

Gadu  ei  liil  yn  goed  i  hwnn 

28  Pwy  yvv'r  mab  lien  per  3'mliob  Uys     ....  d 
Danii  faen  Dewi  neu  Feuno 

29  Moliant  Sion  Edwart 

Hawdd  amawi-  ir  wledd  fawr  fan e 

Hiraeth  hagr  hwyr  ith  ddygaf 

30  Cowydd  J  ofjjn  wdcneiffi  Ruff:  ap  Rys  dros  Sion  Hanmer 

Yn  dri  fEetli  ith  wnair  Ru'ffndd / 

Tri  ffwyth  i  fastart  Ruffudd 

31  SiefErai  a  ^f  o  sai  IFraingc g 

Ceirw  'n  y  siep  ar  corn  i  Sion 

82   Tychan  J  Gutto  V  Glynn 

Guttyu  y  Glynn  a  fu  glaf    , h 

^  roi  arall  yrowron  S'  Rys 

33  Atteh  :  Gwae  a  gynhaliodd  i  gyd i 

Dann  y  gist  a  dwyn  ei  gkn 

34  Moliant  Gwladus 

Mae  dawn  duw  ym  dyn  diwael     ....  k 

Gware  'r  nos  a  wna  ein  gwr  ni 

35  Cowydd  J  Siejffre  Cyffin 

Pererin  pian  'rowron / 

Eb  fy  annedd  ni  bwyf  yno 

36  Bron  draw  biau  'r  enw  a  drig     ...  m 
Ar  Elen  ai  heirioles 

37  Cowydd  J  ddiolch  ain  Fwcled 

Mae  eryr  boll  wyr  lien ^ 

Yn  arf'au  maen  ar  fy  medd 

38  Maricnad  TLywelyn  ap  Moel 

Mae  arch  yn  ystrad  marchell  ....  0 

A  ehowydd  nowydd  i  nef 

39  Moliant  Dafydd  Tomas 

Dafydd  brydydd  a  browdur     ....  „ 

Y  tri  yn  un  'mlaen  traen  wyd 

40  Manvnad  Dafydd  ILwyd  o  Abertanad 

I  gijio  rhag  ei  elyn _ 

Trugaredd  ir  tri  gorau 

41  Cowydd  i  wr  am  fad  yn  galed  wrth  y  Prydyddion 

Y  du  hydyr  or  Deheudir     ..... 
Collest  a  roist  callestr  wyd 

42  Cowydd  J  ofyn  Helmet  gan  JVm.  Rodri  o  Holtyn 

Dyn  traws  wyd  yn  dwyn  tros  for     ...     . 
Ar  ai  gwisg  ir  ai  i  gysgii 


9 


43  Tychan  J  Ddafydd  ap  Edmwnd 

Y  raae  llwdn  yma  llednoeth a 

Dyfredd  fo  diwedd  ei  dai 

44  Cowijdd  J  S''  Sion  Mechain  Person  llann  Drinio 

Duw  a  roes  ym  o  dir  saint b 

Siars  na  mach  S''  Sion  Mechain 

45'/  Mas  S'  Sion  Mechain 

Tytbiodd  ^olo  at  jfthei c 

Trinio  a  ato  ar  aunedd 

46  Cowydd  J  ofyn  Slatas  J  Ddeon  Bangor  dros  Gr:  ap  Enion 

Ehoi  ^  'r  w^f  fr^  ar  y  fronn d 

Mae  ymendith  am  ei  mendio 

47  Marwnad  Einion  ap  Gr:  o  lechwedd  Ystrad  ymhenllyn 

Dwfi-  Alwen  doe  fu  'r  wylaw e 

Tu  Einion  nef  yw  enaid 

48  Moliant  Howel  ap  Jeuan  Fychan 

Y  gwr  ar  warr  y  gareg f 

Nid  un  Pab  onid  mab  Mair 

49  Moliant  5  mab  ILewelyn  ap  Hwlcyn 

Mae  heddivv  ym  walioddion g 

Main  a  gwyrth  M6n  ai  gorthir 

Pages  607-684  are  blank. 


CvwYBEU  Sion  Tddue,  pages  685-751. 

1  Marwnad  Sinn  Salbri  o  Rug 

0  fyw  dad  pa  fyd  ydyw 

")  gwelom  bawb  i  gilidd 

2  Moliant  Bossier  MostijK 

A  roed  er  cloi  a  mawr  ras 

Gida  hynn  ag  oed  henaint 

3  Marwnad  y  f/tvyr  im-th  gerdd  ar  pencerddiad 

Twyll  fraw  bradol  tywyllirith 

Yno  ar  hynt  ni  awn  ar  ei  bol 

4  Marwnad  Sion  Gi-nffudd  o  Gaerwys 

Y  byd  hyll  ar  bowyd  hwnn 

Cyrcliodd  ef  ir  nef  ar  naid 

o   Cowydd  ir  byd  fal  y  derfyddpob  dyn 

Dis  yw  'r  byd  os  arbedwn 

Ar  da  mwy  bnd  dUw  mawr 

6  Cowydd  ir  Cybydd  ag  ir  hael 

Cybydd  fab  difedydd  dig 

Fab  naf  nerth  fab  nef  'n  ol 

7  Cowydd  ir  iisuriwr 

Mae  un  ai  barcb  D3ewn  y  byd 

Drwy  bawb  ag  a-fendio  ein  byd 

8  Moliant  S'  Tomas  Mostyn  pann  aeth  yn  Jarchog 

Y  Marchog  glail  naovfrwych  gl6d     .... 
Pinagl  a  thop  i  Wynedd 


10  MjOSTYN   IIANUSCKIPT    1. 

9       Nos  da  ir  ferch  onesta  fu     .     .     .     .  a 

Hi  a  ladd  fab  ai  hael  ddu  fain 

10  T  Uwyn  ai  wisg  oil  yn  wyrdd     ....  b 
if  dal  ne  o  dewlwyn  ir 

11  Mwythus  wy  dadmaeth  seroh     ....  c 
Os  glan  oeddid  was  glan  iddi 

12  Coivydd  ir  byd 

Ehyfedd  iawn  rhyw  -fodd  ennyd     ....  d 

on  1  wyneb  llawenydd 

13  Marwnad  Robert  Clidro 

Aeth  yn  wann  darn  o  dyrnas     ....  e 

Gcrau   Crythor  yngymry 
Gorau  prydydd  a  fydd  ag  a  fy 

14  Marwnad -iSion  Salbri  aer  Marchog  ILeweni 

Gwir  oeres  am  gyw  eryr f 

Na  bo  ef  heb  nef  yn  61 

15  C.  J  gynJiori  Sion  ■Conwy  ifanc  ij  6fed  or  henw  'motryddan 

Mae  son  fal  Moesen  neu  fwy g 

Trwy  dduw  'n  aer  Botryddan  wenn 

16  Cowydd  ir  ceiliog  bronfraith  o  Fotryddan 

Ba  ryw  edn  o  Baradwys h 

Nid  dyn  onid  duw  yn  unig 

17  Cowydd  y  ddylluan 

Gw[n]eiithym  oed  a  Gwenn  neithwyr     ....  i 

Noeth  dwU  fydd  nyth  dylluan 

18  Moliant  Elisau  a  Wm.  TLwyd  o  Riwedog 

A  fynno  da  fwy  no  dau k 

Deinial  a  gatwq  d'einioes 

19  Cantnoliaeth  y  wraig  a  Gogan  y  gwr 

Cerais  fun  fwyn  ei  hwyneb     ....  I 

A  diawl  o  goed  el  ai  gwr 

20  /  ofyn  gwn  J  Humphre  Tomas  o  Fodlviiddan  dros  Sion  Wytm 

ap  Cadioaladr  or  Rhiiulas 
Y  gwr  ifangc  arafwych     .....  m 

Dra  fo  gwnn  wrth'  dref  a  gwal 


n 


o 


CrWYSEV   YMRYSON  A    FU    imWNG  S.   TVDVR    A   SlON  FhILIP. 

21  Y  Biog  rywiog  reol 

Na  ddeled  i  ymweled  mwy  S.T. 

22  Yr  edn  flin  ar  adain  flaenwen     .... 
Ymwelaf  yma  eilwaith  S.P. 

23  Y  bi  wrth  fol  y  berth  fwyn     ....  p 
Tro'r  min  at  "wr  or  mynydd                                            S.T. 

24  Y  cyw  callddadl  cwgcyllddu     ....  « 
Arfer  min  wr  or  mynydd                                                  S.P. 

25  Nos  da  ir  freithglog  Biogen     ....  r  • 
Dwysgwbl  ir  arglwydd  Esgob                                          S.T. 

26  Par  un  liw  y  penn  loyn , 

Wttres  win  tros  'i  enaid  S.P. 


SIGN   TUDUk'S   rOEMS.  11 

27  Y  bi  goeglais  bigowglem a 

Y'.v  garu  nes  gyrry  yw  nol  S.  T. 

28  Y  biog  saiiadog  swydd b 

Trigain  hydd  i  triga  'n  hwy  S.P, 


29  Levavi  oculos  meos-    \_I's.  1201 

Codaf  fy  ngolwg  hoewdeg c 

Ag  y  bydd  dragowydd  draw  Sion  Tudiir 

30  Qpid  gloriaris  .  Ps.  52  [sic], 

Y  cadara  treisfarn  trowsfalch     ....  d 

Y  sydd  beunydd  y  bo 

31  Exaltabo  te  Domine     Ps.  30 

Arglvvydd  dduw  hylwyf  haelaf    ....  ,      * 

Amen  heb  orfien  y  bydd 

32  fnclina  domine  aurem     Ps.  S6 

Arglwydd  tad  ar  ogledd  teg f 

Helpu  a  diddanu  dyn 

33  Miserere  mei  dens     Ps.  51 

Duw  ein  iachawdwr  creawdr  cr^f     ....  g 

Beunydd  felly  bydd  heb  wad 

34  Domine  Quis  habitahit     Ps.  15 

Arglwydd  pwy  ar  ogledd  pell     ....  ^ 

FeUa  y  sydd  ag  y  bydd  byth 

35  Cowydd  J  erchi  ir  Prydyddion  ganu  ir  boneddigion  a  gadel 

ir  carlied  yn  garlied 
Gwae  ni  'r  beirdd  gann  air  y  byd     ....  i 

Mwy  o  aur  siwrl  'mhwrs  Siou 

36  Marwnad  Sion  Wynn  ap  Wm.  Mred.  o  Lanufndd 

O  duw  flined  fu  leni k 

Sion  Wynn  at  ^essu  a  wnai 

37  Cwrs  ynfyd  cerais  nnferch I 

Ag  yn  iach  bellach  y  byd 

38  Fy  ngwineufarcb  fwng  nwyfus m 

O  lawer  seler  is  Aled 

39  Cowydd  J  ofyn  gwydd  affeged  o  ry union  dros  Rhys  grythor 

i  Rubt:  ap  Rys  Guttyn  grythor 
Robert  ap  Rys  daclys  d6n     ...  n, 

Bettai  'r  ych  foi  bwytai  Rys 

40  Marwnad  Jfan  TLwyd  ap  Davydd  ap  Mredydd  o  Langernyw 

Cwyn  a  w^'ddom  cawn  weiddi     .....  o 

Aed  i  nef  Iwydwyd  Jfan 

41  Marwnad  Syr  Jfan  TLwyd  a  Jal 

Dydd  oer  fu  ar  duedd  Jil p 

Path  y  neb  aeth  fyth  yn  benn 

42  Marwnad  Sieffrai  Holant 

Y  carw  gwinau  car  Gwynedd q 

Os  ffarwel  Sieffrai  Holant 

43  Owdlfoliant  i  Syr  Tomas  Mostyn  o  Fostyn 

Hir  enioes  dwyoes  blodeuyn  ym  wyd r 

a  ro  yt  einioes  /  yn  ffortiniol 


12  MOSTYK   MANUSCRH'T    1. 

•44  /  yrru  y  CeUiog  Bronfraith  yn  llatai 

Y  Ceiliog  brau  a'r  cl6g  brych     ...  a 

Difie  'r  nos  i  'r  dewf'ron  allt  Sion  Tudur 

45  Serch  ar  unferch  or  anfodd '  b 

tra  y  parhao  yr  henw  sef  Sioned  Wen 

46  Fyn  ewisawl  fynwesaur t 

Rhag  ofn  Duw  rhyw  gyfion  dal 

47  Cowydd  i  ddyfalu  Napkin 

T  fun  weddys  fain  addwyn     ....  d 

Fy  nuw  rhawg  yw  'r  fun  ai  rhoes 

48  Cur  y  sydd  cerais  hoywddyn e 

hawdd  i  gall  dihuddo  gwr 

49  Tma  'r  oerais  mor  wirion f 

A  goelia  ferch  ag  ael  fain 

50  Blaen  cariad  blin  i  curais g 

Gelyn  i  dduw  galon  ddig 

51  Y  forwyn  wych  ar  frou  weii     ....  h 
Ofned  Dduw  fenaid  dduael 

52  Blyssiais  un  blasus  annerch t 

Ar  enaid  hon  yr  un  tal 

53  Cowydd  i  ijrry  Robin  goch  {=  y  Bronrhuddyn)  yn  llattai 

Tr  edn  hyw  ar  adain  bach k 

Dwg  ir  llwyn  degau  o'r  ll^s 

54  Olwen  gulael  Ian  galon / 

Darfu  wen  fwyn  derfyn  foes 

55  Y  byd  towyllfyd  dall-fodd m 

Na  meiddio  dy  geisio  gwen 

56  Bystl  y  Byd 

Egor  nef  wrth  lef  araitb  lafar  dyn n 

Archwu  ni  giirwn  ag  fe  gorir 

57  Awdl  i  wr  o'r  Gard 

Bliissiart  Sion  greulon  gwrolaelh  lloegr  oil     ...     .         o 
Einioes  i  Eiaiart  nas  arhosodd 

58  Marwnad  Harry  Parry  ai  aer  Thomas  Parry 

Trafel  fydd  trwof  fal  saeth 

Duw  Wyii  aeth  a'i  Dau  enaid 

59  Gvvae  'r  undyn  heb  gowreindab 

Garu  mab  yn  gowir  mwy 

Pages  752-798.  Blank. 


P 


Cywybeu  ac  Odled  Tuddb  Aled,  pages  799-826. 

Moliant  Syr  Tomas  Salbri  o  Leweni 

Pwy  yw  blaenor  pobl  y  wenol 

A  chwi  sy  benn  chwechoes  byd 

Ystiwart  Rhos  m  dart  rhudd 

Odid  byw  wedi  dy  benn 


TUDTJR  ALED's  POEMS.  18 

3  Moliant  a  chynghor  i  Rossier  Salbri  aer  ILeweni 

Aer  ILeweni  Tfarll  wyneb a 

ifr  byd  par  wybod  pwy  wyd 

4  Moliant  Sion  Salbri  o  Leioeni 

Troes  undyn  att  ras  headad b 

Wyth  yw  'r  dyn  ath  eura  di 

5  Moliant  IFoiuc  Salbri  Deon  Ran  Elwy 

Mae  gwaed  ir  yn  magu  dyn c 

Cynhiated  bett  cain  iti 

6  Moliant  5  a  Feibiim  Sion  Salbri  o  Leioeni 

Pe  rhon  torri  pren  tiriou     .....  d 

Pum  arwy  havdd  fo  ei  pum  rhodd 

7  Moliant  Robert  Salbri  o  Jal 

Vn  dyn  a  gwaew  yn  dan  i  gyd     ....  e 

Robert  na  bon  awr  bebod 

8  Cam  dyn  ieuanc  arab f 

Bagl  gol  a  geiflf  figail  gwenn 

9  Moliant  Syr  Wm.  Gruffudd  marchog  urddol 

Morr  llawen  mae  'r  llu  ieuainc g 

Dyred  ddug  y  drydedd  waitb 

10  Moliant  Syr  Edwart 

Vn  prelad  wyneb  Rolant h 

Na  bo  gwyn  a  byw  ganoes 

11  Cowydd  J  ofyn  gwalch  J  S'  Robert  ap  Rys  person  Owrtyn 

dros  William  Hanmer 

Vwy  a  rann  gwaed  y  prenn  gwiu t 

Amgylcb  haul  am  y  gwalch  hwnn 

12  Moliant  Sion  Pilstwn  hen 

Pwy  a  dyr  gwaew  fal  powdr  gwyllt k 

Ty  trigwres  tad  rhowiogrwydd 

13  Marwnad  Jeuan  ap  Jtliael  Fycaan  o  Degaingl 

Nid  un  bwys  ag  nid  iawn  bod t 

P.edr  wyn  ai  pedwar  enaid 

14  J  ofyn  march  brith  J  Ddafydd  TLwyd  o  gygidfa 

Powys  Iwyd  pwy  sy  wladwr m 

Rbag  euro  'r  ewig  hirwen 

15  Trem  ar  ferch  trwm  a  rof  i     .....     .  » 

For  wyn  fyw  neu  farw  'n  fuan 

16  Marwnad  Robert  ap  Sion  ^thael  o  Laneurgain 

Y  gwr  marw  a  gar  morwyn a 

Dy  ddiben  yw  dydd  eb  n6s 

17  Moliant  Mr.  Robert  ap  Rys 

Ar  goal  undyn  mae  'r  glendyd     .     .     ,     .     ,  p 

Hyd  dydd  brawd  diwedd  breuder 

18  J  Rys  ap  Mredydd  am  fynd  a  march  yn  ei  ol  Sjc. 

Pwy  biau  gwaed  pibau  gwin q 

Adu  a  roes  i  dir  Jal 

19  Moliant  Rhys  ap  Mredydd  ai  wraig 

Mae  d'enw  Rhys  am  dy  win  rhj^dd     ....  r 

Itti  rhoed  cynal  ty  Rhys 


14  MOSTYN  MANUSCEIPTS. 

20  Marwnad  Dafydd  ap  Edmwnd 

ILiiwdduw  a  fu.  yn  lladd  awen a 

Roi  paradwys  ir  prydydd 

21  Moliant  Syr  Rys  ap  Tomas  marcJiog  iirddol. 

^  .Syr  Bwn  nerth  dragwn  wrth  dranc  y  dyruas     ....     5 

Neu  pie,  am  dwysog  na  wypom  d'eisiau 

22  Moliant  J  Syr  Sion  ap  Dafydd  Abad  Glynn  Egwestl 

Euron  uwch  goron  ewch  i  geurydd c 

Euro  rhaid  ar  rhediad 

23  Marwnad  S'  Tomas  Salbri  o  Leweni  [Bart'] 

Gwae  holl  gred  trymed  tromw^dd  am  erciliwyn    .     ,     ,     ,  d 
am  rias  ynillym  grym  sy  'n  holl  gred 

Pages  827-896.  Blank. 


MS.  55,  Astrology,  a  Kalendar,  and  Eotae  :  paper;  llj  x 
7J  inches;  134  pages;  imperfect  at  the  beginning;  xviith  century; 
bound  in  Eussia  leather. 

Page  1.  I/yma  beth  o  natyr  y  Saith  blaned 
Page  3.  Astrological  Avheels: 

Page  4.  llyma  He  ytreithr  am  yw[sic]  hwech  gradd  y  ffarfaenn 
b.  llyma  Ryol  y  addnabod  bob  kwarter  or  byd  y  ne\fydiar  lloyad  bob 
Amser  byth  heb  fiael. 

Page  5.  llyma  ddefni  llawynwir  :  llin  y  bowyd  a  eil  [=eilw]  Rai  llin 
y  galon  y  sydd  yn  dechrey  y  mynydd  y  manag  fys  ag  yn  mynd  Trwy 
geyder  y  Haw  &c. 

Page  ?.  llyma  iiattyr  y  planedeu :  Sattyrnws  y  sydd  blaned  sych 
■oervelog  ag  wrth  hynny  gwenwynig  yw  adrwg  achynvigennys  atwyll- 
odyrys  ac  velly  y  mae  pobl  yr  y  Raifft  kanis  deui  y  maent  &c. 
Ending  with' 7  cnglynion  wrth  natyriaeth  y  7  blaned. 

Sol  venws  marcurius  mi  ai  carwn     ....,, 
a  char  droya  boddva  bar 

Page  n.  ILyn  y  dwylo 

b.  llyma  y  pedwar  elment  nid  amgen  awyr  tan  dayar  dwr  Sef  hynny 

.■Sanguis  Colera  melancolia  fHemma  :  1  Sanguis  y  sydd  wresog  a  gwlyb  a 
melys  &c. 

Page  11.  ILyma  val  y  mae  yn  kanly[n]  Eohd  y  ffortyn  [  =  the  wheel 
■of  fortune]  .wedi  i  ffr[iJnto  aigwnaethyr  trwy  gelfyddyd  ar  heswm 
pethagros  wrth  yr  hon  y  gellv/ch  wybcd  pob  peth  ar  a  aller  i  ofyn 

weithian    mi   a    ddancosaf   yrhai   y  sydd   venwod 

amerkwch  os  byddwch  ykeiso  dim  gan  arglwydd  keiswch  yn  vr^wr  wriw 
.ac  OS  gan  arglwyddes  teisiwch  yn  yr'  awr  veniw  ac  fe  fydd  hawrdl 
ychwi  ygnel  ych  dym[un]iad  yr  awr  gyntaf  y  nol  banner  nos  ywr  awr 
gyntaf  or  dudd  a  ffob  awr  gynife'-  ysydd  veniw  affob  awr  ano'yniver  y 
sydd  wriw  yngystal  liw  dudd  all iw  nos.  &c.  ° 

Page  13.  Yrhod  hon  addengys  yroriau  kariadiis  ar  oriau  anThariadus 
•end  ymgais  ar  by  awr  ydechroyech  vwriad  &c.  "^ 

Pages  14-18.  Planetary  &  o.ther  "  Tables." 
Pages  19-30.  A  Kalendar 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPTS.  15 

•  Page  31.  Dyma  ddangos  y  lloere  dierth 

Page  33.  llyma  ddangos  ffocdd  y  vwrw  y  pasc  vyth  ar  gowydJ  wrth 
y  prif  y  flwyddyn  ot  y  i'ewyn  yr  diwarnad  : 

''  yr  vn  ved  prif  vhyf  rliwddach 

ny  ddwyn  ebrill  o  niddiey 

Pages  35-37.  Two  planetary  ■vvhsels  and  a  table  of  the  7  days. 

'  Pases  38-134.  Blank. 


MS,  56.  Medical  Keceipts:  An  hospitall  of  the  diseased  wherein 

are  to  be  found  most  excellent  and  approved  medicines  as  well  [as]  im- 
plaistars  of  speciall  vertue,  as  also  notable  potions  or  drinkes,  and  other 
■comfortable  receips  both  for  the  restitution,  and  the  bodily  health. 

Very  ni;cessarie  in  time  of  Coffion  plague  and  mortality  and  for  other 
times,  when  occasion  shall  require,  newly  augmented  and  enlarged 
gathered  by  To :  Co  :  The  Lord  hath  created  medicines  of  the  earth, 
and  he  that  is  wise  will  not  abhorre  it.     Ecclesiasticus,  38.  vers  4. 

Hefyd  y  mae  yn  dangos  modd  i  ollwng  gwaed  ag  i  cdrych  dwfr  pa 
ruw  ddolur  bynnag  a  fo  ar  ddyn  iw  adnabod  wrth  liw  y  dwfr. 

Hefyd  i  mae  yn  scrilenedig  henwau  pob  math  ar  ddail  yn  Uadin  ag 
yn  saesneg  ag  yn  gymraeg  a  llawer  o  blastrau  da  eraill  (p.  12). 

Paper;  12  x  7^  inches  ;  xviitli  centuiy;  82  pages  +  24  blank 
leaves ;  this  MS.  is  numbered  ^  (26)  on  page  1 ;  bound  in  Russia 
leather. 

Page  ].  Table  of  Contents. 

Page  3.  Names  of  plants,  some  iu"  English  and  Welsh,  some  in  Latia 
:and  English,  and  some  in  the  three  languages. 

.  Page  9.  Y  modd  i  edryeh  dwr  ag  arwyddion  peryglus  nid  amgen  : 
fal  corn  lantarn  glan  glouwa  ollt — Y  dwr  or  lliw  hwu  a  arwyddoca  y 
■maesa  gwaed  ar  dropsi  &c. 

Page  12.  A  description  of  the  book  as  given  above. 

Pages  13-74.  A  large  number  of  the  medical  receipts  are  the  same  as 
those  contained  in  the  Meddygon  Myddfai  (Llandovery,  1861),  but  the 
arrangement  is  different  and  the  wording  changed.  There  are  also 
-numerous  additions  of  a  later  dale.  For  instance :  ]Lyma  y  feddeg- 
inieth  a  gafas  y  brenin  Henri  8  gan  wyr  o  ddysg  rhag  gwenwyn  y 
chwarren  pan  fo  y  plag  &c. 

It  ends  with  "  The  receipt  of  Thomas  Jones  of  England  "  to  cure  the 
:"  Siattica  oer." 


.  Pages  346,  34c,  506,  and  50c,  consist  of  petty  cash  disbursements  in 
•the  year  1668,  and  do  net  belong  to  this  MS.  ''  Spent  at  Bohemia  "  and 
"  Spent  at  Caerwj's  "  are  frequent  items  ;  "  Sir  Jioger  [Mostyn]  's  man 
that  brought  fish  from  Gloddeth"  gets  1/-  ;  and,  sixpence  is  spent  in  the 
■company  of  "  Mr.  Thelwall  and  Mr,  Humphrey  Wynne." 


MS.  78.  The  Statute  of  Griffith  ap  Kynan  as  promulgated 
at  the  Cuerwys  Eistedvod  in  the  15""  year  of  Henry  VIII.  Paper  ; 
:8|^  X  6  inches;  folios   1-28  (folios  13-28,  which  are  much  injured  by 


16  MOSTYN   MANUSCKIPTS. 

damp,  are  misplaced  before  folios  1-12);  well  bound  in  leather  and 
lettered  on  the  back  "  Rheolau  y  pedwr  mesur  ar  hugian  yr  amser 
'Gryfiyd  ap  Cynan  "  !     Sixteenth  century. 

Tol.  1.  Llyma  y status  Gruff  ap  Kynan  Tywyssoc  Gwynedd  arr 
wyr  wrth  Gerdd  Tavod  a  tliant  (rubric). 

Bid  ysbyd  i  bawb  o  voneddigion  /  a  chyffredin  vod  ystntvs  /  ar  wyr 
wrth  gerdd  taf od  a  thant  /  yr  honn  Eisteddvod  oedd  o  vewn  Tref  gaerwys 
yn  sir  yfflint  yrail  dydd  o  vis  gorffennaf  y  bymthecved  flwyddyu  o 
goroniad  hari  w/thved  brenhin  Uoegr  gar  bronn  Eichart  ap  ho'l  ap 
leuan  vachan  ysgwier  o  gyd  vndeb  Syr  wiliam  Griifi  a  Sy/'  Roeger 
Salbri  a  thrwy  berssonol  gyngor  GinifF  ap  leuan  ap  U'a  vachan  /  a 
thiidiir  aled  bardd  kadeirioc  a  llawer  o  vonheddigion  a  doethion  am 
benn  hynny  Er  gwnaethiir  ordr  a  llywodraeth  ar  wyr  wrth  gerdd  ac  ar 
i  kelvyddyd  wrth  ordr  a  geiriav  ystatiis  GrilfE  ap  kynan,  &c. 

Fol.  28  ends ;  Fob  dair  blynedd  y  perthyn  bod  [eisjteddfod  a  gwys 
a  Rybtidd  yn  yffair  arfarchnad  athraethu  hynny  ir  gynniileidfa  vn  dydd 
a  blwyddyn  i  gael  ysbas  ir  disgyblion  i  ddysgv  ac  ir  graddolion  frodiir  i 
*  *  yvryrio  Tavofod  a  thant. 


MS.  88.    Calendar,  a  Treatise  on  Urine,  Life  of  St.  IVTarthin, 

AND    a      brief    history     FROM     AdAM     TO     "  AsCLOPITOTUS,"    in    the 

autograph  of  Guttyn  Owen,  written  in  1488  (p.  62)  and  1489  (p.  10). 
Vellum  ;  9^  X  6f  inches  ;  well  bound  in  white  vellum  and  in  very  good 
state  of  preservation ;  98  pages.  This  MS.  formed  No.  77  in  the 
Gloddaetli  Library.  It  is  also  numbered  "  (9)  "  on  page  3.  Pages  3, 
4,  8,  86-98  are  blank,  and  pages  1,  2,  5-7  aie  in  a  later  hand. 

Page  1.  Concerning  the  four  points  of  the  compass. 

Page  2.  Ther  ben  there  [= three]  perylous  muwdaes  yn  the  yer  &c. 

b.  Three  unlucky  days  to  be  born  on,  and  (c.)  the  three  "  best  daes  of 
any  monyth  to  begin  any  good  worke  or  tak  a  Jornay  vppon." 

Page  3.  Blank. 

Page  4.  The  Bookplate  of  the  Mostyn  family  with  the  signature 
"  Th.  Mostyn  1744  No.  77." 

Page  5.  Astronomical  Rotae  and  tables. 

page  11.  Chart  showing  the  different  parts  of  the  body  to  be  bled  for 
the  removal  of  different  ailments. 

Page  12.  Planetary  table. 

Page  13.  Calendar.     The  following  Welsh  saint  days  are  given  : 

Mis  ^oitor  :  gwyl  llwchhaiarn,  12th  ;  gwyl  erbin  ac  elien  (a  saran),  is'th; 
gwyl  laint  antwn,  I7th ;  gwyl  ffabien  affabefti,  20th  ;  gwyl  bawl  a 
dwynwcB,  25th ;  gwyl  velangell,  31st.  Mis  Chwefrol  :  gwyl  fanffraid, 
1st;  gwyl  ddilwar,  4th;  gwyl  faint  agath,  5th ;  gwyl  ddyfnoc,  13th  ; 
gwyl  valontuin  (a  Meugan),  14th  ;  gwyl  bedyr,  22nd.  Mis  Mawrth  • 
gwyl  ddewi  arch  efgob,  1st  ;  gwyl  fiatt  efgob,  2nd  ;  gwyl  fain  grigor 
bab,  12th  ;  gwyl  badric,  l7th;  gwyl  gynnbryd,  19th  ;  gwyl  fain  bened, 
21st ;  gwyl  vair  y  gyhydedd,  25th.  Mis  Ebrill  :  gwyi  Richart  efgob. 
3rd ;  gwyl  dyrnoc  ac  ambrof,  4th ;  gwyl  ddervel  gadaru,  5th ;  gwyl 
lywelyn  a  gwrnerth,  7th;  gwyl  vevno,  21st;  gwyl  luin  f.ors,  23rd. 
Mis  Mai:  gwyl  fion  o  baptys,  6  th ;  gwyl  vael  a  fulien,  13th;  gwyl 
gollenn,  21st ;  gwyl  fain  denis,  25th  ;  gwyl  velangell,  27th  ;  gwyl  erbin 
gonffefor,  29th.     Mehevin  :  gwyl  degla,  1st;  gwyl  gwyven,  3rd  ;  gwyl 


HOLY   DAYS,   LIFE  OF  ST.   MAKTIN,   ETC.  17 

boniffaf,  5th;  gwyl  barnabaf,  llth;  gwyl  fannan,  13th  ;  gwyl  drillavv, 
15th  ;  p;wyl  gvric  nc  elidati,  16th  ;  gwyl  fant  lednart,  19th  ;  gwyl  wenn 
vrewy,  22nd ;  gwyl  Tfevan  vedydwr,  24th ;  (Guyl  Melbro)  25th. 
GoRFFENNAF  :  gwyl  beblic,  3rd;  gwyl  marthin  efgob,  4tli  ;  gwyl  vrvyl 
fantes,  6th;  gwyl  gowair,  Ilth;  gwyl  ddoewan,  13lh;  gwyl  laint 
Margred,  20th  ;  gwyl  vair  vadlen,  22nd  ;  gwyl  arnion  yn  ial,  31st. 
AwsT  :  gwyl  oiwallt,  5th;  gwyl  ^evan  pan  laf  i  benn,  29th.  Mbdi: 
gwyl  fanl'ilin,  1st;  gwyl  fulien,  2nd ;  gwyl  ddeinioel,  11th  ;  (gwyl  gwen 
Edith),  16th  ;  gwyl  vwroc,  24th  ;  gwyl  vevgan,  25th  ;  gwyl  vihangel, 
29th.  Hydref  :  gwyl  filin  a  garmon,  1st;  gwyl  ganhaval,  5th  ;  gwyl 
lain  denis,  9th  ;  (guyl  Velangel),  16th  ;  gwyl  y  gweryddon,  21st ;  gwyl 
wynnoc  a  noe,  22nd.  Tachwedd  :  gwyl  griftiolus,  3rd  ;  gwyl  gybi, 
5th;  gwyl  fant  lednart,  6th;  gwyl  gynngar,  7th;  gwyl  dylillaw,  8th; 
gwyl  marthin,  11th  ;  gwyl  gydwaladr,  12th  ;  gwyl  vrufys,  13th  ;  gwyl 
ddigain,  21st;  gwyl  glemens,  23rd;  gwyl  faint  Eatrin,  25th  ;  gwyl  faint 
Leini  efgob,  26th  ;  gwyl  gallgof,  27th.  Ragvtk  :  gwyl  fain  nikolaf, 
6th  ;  gwyl  vair,  8th;  gwyl  Luiie,  13th;  gwyl  dydecho,  17th  ;  gwyl 
yftyfiEan,  26th  ;  gwyl  ^evan,  27th  ;  gwyl  y  vil  veibion,  28th. 

Page  26.  The  human  figure  with  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac  drawn  on  it : 
Pann  vo  yr  heul  yny  rayharen  mogel  egori  y  ar  y  penn  nar  wyneb  ar 
gwegil  nac  egori  gwythen  y  penn,  &c. 

Page  27.  Astronomical  table. 

Page  28.  Rota  :  Tabl  yw  honn  o  amravaelion  liwiav  ar  vrin  a  dyfroedd 
dynion. 

Page  29.  The  colours  of  urine  and  their  signification  :  Dwr  melyn 
val  aur  purloyw  a  arweddoka  iechyd  a  llywodraeth  dda  o  gorfl"  dyn,  &c. 

Page  36.  Kyfanfoddir  korff  dyn  or  pedwar  gwlybwr  hynn :  fan- 
gwinus,  flSewma,  kolera,  malingkolia,  &c. 

b.  Wyth  rann  fydd  mewn  dyn  Y  Eann  gyntaf  yw  y  ddaiar,  &e., 
ends :  Mwyaf  meddeginiaeth  yw  tynnv  afgwrn  twin  i  ar  bilionen 
emennydd. 

Page  37.  The  Life  of  Saint  Marthin :  Marthm  Sant  oedd  efgob  a 
chonfEefor  i  grift  ac  a  hanoedd  a  fabaria  vn  o  ddineffydd  gwlad  panonia 
ac  ynyr  eidal  tifin  i  magwyd  ef  Ai  rieni  ef  hagen  yi'  yw  bod  yn 
beganiaid  ann  fiyddlou,  &c. 

Rubric  on  page  50,  col.  i. — A  chan  vod  yn  Ry  hir  i  ni  yfgrivennv 
kwbl  o  vuchedd  a  gwyrthie  Marthin  ni  a  yfgrivennwn  beth  or  pethav 
penwaf  o  wyrthiav  Marthin  Mewn  byrder  Rac  blino  darlleodron  gan 
bethav  Ryhir. 

Rubric  on  page  52,  col.  ii. — Ac  yr  yn  bod  ni  yn  fon  Uawer  am 
weithredoedd  y  kythrel  etto  mae  Rann  vawr  or  ymddivan  hwnn  yn 
koflFav  Rinweddav  a  gwyrthiev  Marthin  Ac  yn  bethav  teilwng  yw 
Roddi  mewn  kof  yn  fiampl  i  eraill  Rac  llaw  i  ochel  drwc.  Ends : 
Eilioes  yr  hynn  a  welfom  ni  yn  yr  amfer  a  yfgrifenwyd  a  ni  a  glowfom 
ac  a  welfom  yn  fikr  ev  bod  yn  wir  ac  yn  ddiamav     amen. 

John  trevor  a  droes  y  vuchedd  honn  or  Hading  yn  gymraec  a  gvttvn  owain  ai 
hyfgriyennodd  pan  oed[d]  oed  Krift  Mil  ecco  Lxxxviij  o  vlynyddoedd  yn  amfer 
Hari  Seithved  nid  amgen  y  drydedd  vlwyddyn  o  goronedigaeth  yr  rn  Hari. 

Page  63.  Genealogy  with  brief  history  from  Adam  and  Eve  to  Afclobi- 
totus  — left  unfinished.  The  arms  of  Eneas  Ysgwyddwynn,  Brutus, 
Albfenakus,  Lokrinus,  Kamber,  Brutus  darian  las,  Antonius,  Porex, 
Dyfnwal  moel  mvd,  and  Beli  are  given.  The  text  begins  .  Addaf 
ac  eva  vv  y  ddav  ddyn  gyntaf  a  greodd  duw  ac  oi  hil  yntwy  ir  hiliwyd 
yr  holl  yyd  IJyma  y  plant  a  hiliodd  o  naddvnt  Kaym  :  fawiinana  Abel 
e]  [87130.  B 


18  MOSTyN  MANUSCRIPT  96. 

wirion  Seth  a  delbora  :  y  Kaim  iffod  a  laddodd  abel  wirion  i  vrawd  o 
genvigenn,  &c.,  .  .  .  ew&  :  Ac  yna  i  Kymerth  alclopitotus  y  goron 
ai  chynnal  ddeng  mlynedd  yni  amfer  i  dechrevodd  y  dymeftl  a  wnaeth 
diokleifian  ymerodr  Euvain  ar  griftynogion  yna  y  divawyd  yr  holl 
griftynogaeth  haiach  yiiyr  amfer  hwnuw  y  doeth  macfen  ac  erkwllf  yn 
ddav  benn  tevlv  yr  ynys  honn  o  arch  y  krevlon  bwnnw  a  diftryw  y  temlav 
a  Uofgi  y  Uyfrav  or  yfgrvthyr  Ian  a  lladd  y  gwyr  lien  ar  kriftynogion. 


MS.  96.  Cywybeu  and  Odleu  from  the  "Gloddaeth  Library," 
mostly  eulogistic  of- Sir  Thomas  and  other  members  of  the  Mostyn 
family;  paper;  14  x  9  inches;  564  pages ;  after  1674 — pp.  25-64  are 
in  the  same  hand  as  MS.  1 ;  bound  in  white  vellum.  The  book  plate 
of  "  Tho  :  Mostyn  1744  |  No.  48  "  is  pasted  on  the  inside  of  the  cover, 
and  "  No.  48  "  occurs  also  on  page  1. 

Pages  1-24.  Blank. 

25  Cywydd  marmnad  S'  Rissiart  Wynn  o  Wedir 

Oer  aruthr  yw  Eryri a 

Oi  symud  ha,ul  f achlud  hir  Morys  Parry 

27   Cywydd  marwnad  arall  J  S'  JR.  Wynn 

Och   och  a  chanoch  inni     ....  h 

WjT  eraill  yn  orwyrion  {S')  Rhys  Cadwaldr 

29   Cywydd  marwnad  arall  J  S'  R.  Wynne 

Gwae  enioes  bobl  Wynedd     . c 

y  bytho  mawl  byth  Amen  Sion  Edwart 

31   Cywydd  marwnad  Huw  Wynn  o  Fodysgallan  Esqr. 

Amryw  gwyn  ymro  Gon'wy d 

Tann  yr  adgyfodiad  fydd  Morys  Parry 

34  Cywydd  marwnad  Sion  Mostyn  o  Faesmynan  Esqr. 

Trwm  a  gwann  tramwy  (Swynedd e 

ILe  i  dygodd  Haw  duw  Jago  Morys  Parry 

36  Cywydd  marwnaA  Willli]am.  Salesbury  o  Rug  Esqr. 

Duw  ystjnrio .  dostured f 

A  drig  iddo  yn   dragwyddawl  Edward  Morys 

39  Cywydd  marwnad  S'  Sion  Carter 

Beth  ragor  yw  stor  neu  st&d « 

Tn  y  ne  heb  un  yn  ol  {S')  Rhys  Cadwaladr 

41  Cywydd  i  gwyno  am  Tomas  Mostyn  Esq.  adre  o  Lundain 

Hiraethodd  deutu  GHoddeth h 

J  feddiane  eich  Ue  a'ch  Uys.  (if)  Rhys  Cadwaladr 

42  Cywydd  i  erfyn  iechy[d]  i  Mrs.  Mostyn  o  Loddeth 

O  dduw  gwraidd  gwraidd  i  gyd ■  ■•  i 

Oi  teml  dwg  hwynt  ymeth  {S')  Rhys  Cadwaladr 

43  Carol  J  Mrs.  Mostyn  ar  ol  gwella 

Tr  hwnn  sy'n  byw  o  fewn  y  byd Ji 

J  nol  llawenydd  adre  S'  R.  Cadwaldr 

45  Cywydd  J  groesawu  Tomas  Mostyn  Esq.  i  uwch  Mynydd 

Y  Hew  pur  allu  parod     ....  i 

A  llwyddiant  yw  holl  eiddo  Ed.  Morys 

b.   Cywydd  J  ofyn  Hogsiedvfir  yngalenig  J  Sion  Edwart 

T  gwr  enwog  gwi^  rifawedd     ....  m 

A  chwchyn  at  eich  iechyd  j^d.  Morys 


IN  PSAISE  OP  THE  MOSTYN   FAMILY.  19 

47  Ymddiddan  rhwng  y  hardd  at  awen 

Fy  awenydd  fai  anoeth a 

Drwy  gwplad  a  drig  yw  plith  Ed.  Morys 

49  Cywydd  moliant  J  Tomas  Mostyn  o  Loddaith  Esqr. 

Mi  af  ir  ll^s,  mwyi'wy  r  Uwydd     ....  b 

ILaw  dduw  fo,  yw  Uwyddo  fyth  Ed.  Morys 

50  Awdl  foliant  Tomas  Mostyn  o  loddaith  [in  the  24  metres] 

ILew  Gloddaeth  bennaeth  bennydd     ....  c 

He  dylai'r  glod  fod  hi  a  fydd  Ed.  Morys 

52  Cywydd  y  llwynog 

Dydd  da  ir  llwynog  or  ogof d 

IFarwel  rhaid  ym  ffo  ir  aUt  Huw  JDwyd  (CynveT) 

54  Cywydd  cyffes  y  llwynog 

,  Y  llwynog  a  lliw  anardd e 

Mae  swn  y  cwn  byth  ym  cylch  Huw  ILteyd  Cynwal 

55  Cywydd  marwnad  Mr.  Rissiart  Bwcley  .  .  .  a  las  ar  draeth 

y  lafain  ig  Chwefror  idl^g 

Mae  wylo  mae  crio  croch f 

Oer  hap  i  bawb  or  hepil  Sion  Gruffydd 

67   Cywydd  marwnad  ar  ddull  ymddiddan  ir  iin  gwr 

Mae  tonnau  mawr  or  dagrau  dwys     ....  g 

Wlad  ^esu  He  dewisawl  Sion  Gruffydd 

58  ■  Cywydd  J  ofyn  hwch  J  William  Sion  ap  William  o  Jjingwm 
gan  Morys  ap  Sion  Amhorys  or  Rhydlydan 

Y  gwr  uchel  ei  grechwen h 

yn  claddu  m6ch  mewn  clawdd  mwy  Edwart  Morys 

61  In  imitation  of  Horace  's  Epode  II. 

Dedwydd  yw  'r  sawl  nid  ydyw i 

Br  cyd  yn  y  byd  y  bo  S''  Rhys  Cadwaladr 

62  Cywydd  ac  Englyn  i  Sion  Edwart 

Sion  ai  dy  gefn  y  sydd k 

Gwn  y  rhaid  yt  gahu  a  Rhys 

Agoryd  genau  gwirion,  a  mygu  / 

Megys  tanwydd  irion 

Ag  yfed  mwy  nag  afon 

A  thyngu  yn  rhwydd  yw  swydd  Sion        S''  R.  Cadwaladr 

63  Cywydd  ac  Englyn  yn  atteb  J  S'  Rys 

Y  bardd  enwawg  ber  ddoniawl m, 

^  gydio  am  fi  gau  dy  fant 

Mygaist  llefaist  a  llyfon,  gyfaill  n 

Ag  yfed  fal  eidion  <fec.  Sion  Edwart 

64  Cywydd  diolch  yr  laith  Gymraeg  ir  gwir  barchedig  Dad 

yNuw  Wiliam  Lloyd  Arg.  Esgob  iLan  Elwy 

Hen  iaith  ydwyf  nitluedig o 

a  Daued  hyn  Duw  ai  t^l  Edwart  Morus 

66  Cywydd  arall  ir  un  Esgob  by  Sion  Dafydd  alias  John  Penllyn 

Yr  heniaith  eirian  hynawd p 

I  gaer  hen  y  gwr  hytiod 

68  Marwnad  Sion  Edward  ar  ffordd  o  ymddiddan  mewn  gweled- 
igaeth  nos 

I  gysgu  'r  eis  gwascu  'r  pedd q 

"Delfrown  oil  a  deffro  Vna  Ed.  Morus 

B   2 


20  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  96. 

71   Marwnad  Sion  Edwart 

Cwyno  mae  'n  hiaith  helaith  hen     ....  a 

Yn  f'atteb  yn  fyw  etto  S'  Rys  Cadwaladr 

b.  Cywydd  marwnad  arall  ar  ddull  ymddiddan  i'r  un  gwr 

Coedlwyn  oedd  cayad-leii  ais     .     .      .     .  b 

Tragowydd  y  trig  awen  Sim  Dafydd 

73  Cywydd  I  Ofyn  Cymod  y  parch:  Thomas  Mostyn  o  Loddeth 

Esqr.  1683 

Tua  Gloddeth  f^^  gwleddoedd c 

I  ganu  mawl  gwyn  y  m5^d  Ed.  Morys 

74  C.  Moliant  ir  parch:  Th:  Mostyn  o  Loddeth]Esqr.  l6§3 

Ehoddais  fy  mr^d  muniid  mail     ....  d 

Teilwng  un  Duw  ai  talo  Sion  Dafydd 

76  Englynion  i  'r  un   Gwr 

Del  pob  dawn  uniawn  i  Annedd  Loddeth     ....  e 

Gofys  wedd  a  gefais  I  ,j         ,, 

b.  Tna  'byddi  di  yn  d'oes  y  garreg     ....  / 
Ag  yn  gorwedd  eusoes  &c.                                 „         „ 

c.  Pob  pleser  ofer  aflaith  'edy  d^n     ...  g 
Wedi  'del  morwolaith  &c.                                   „         „  l6Sif 

77  Cywydd  ir  JLech 

Mae  Craig  gadarn  a  farnaf    ...  h 

Seth  einioes  yw  syth  wyneb  „         „  l683 


Cywybeu  by  Sfe  Khts  Cadwaldh. 

78  C.  i  ofyn  Benthig  Ceffyl  I  Mr.  Holland  Williams  a  Gonnwy 

Y  Hew  pur  allu  parod  [compare  45  above]     ....         i 
Berw  ddadl  breuddwydion 

79  A  trans:  of  Horace's  Ode  22  of  Booh  i.  SfC. 

I  ddyn  ai  fuchedd  yn  dda h 

Dy  Ibliant  ti  o  flaen  tes 

b.  Stet  quicunque  volet  patens — Senec:   Thyestes 

Y  sawl  a  gair  gadarn  fraisg  fri     .     .     .     .  I 
yn  hen  wr  ai  hun  yn  ol 

80  Anfon  yr  Haul  yn  genad  at  y  gwir  barch:  Tho:  Mostyn 

Esq.  {Calan  Idig) 

Yr  haul  teg  rheol  wyt  i m 

I  sylf'aen  i  breswylfa 

81  Cywydd  priodas  Robert  Wynn  o  Fodysgallen  ag  Elin  »}  ag 

aeres  Robert   Wynn  o   Gonwy  i6§3 

Gwr  oedd  hael  gwredd  helynt n 

Ai  gowlaid  lawer  gwiliau  Sion  Dafydd 

82  Dau    Englyn   I  Domas  Holland   am  ddwyn  gwartheg  i 

Denantied 
Cadarn  yw  teirdarn  nid  teg  ei  gostwm    ....  o 

Garwa  man  i  gwr  mynydd  }  Morys  Parry 

83  Englynion  i   Thomas  Mostyn  Esqr. 

Gerwin  yw  Aniolehgarwch p 

Bob  un  yn  Fostyn  a  fo       Morys  Parry  person  ILanElian 


IN  PRAISE   OF   THE  MOSTYN   FAMILY.  21 

83  Marwtiad  am  Golwyn  Thomas  Mostyn  o  Loddeth  16^/^ 

Rhai  a  gan  rhyw  wag  enwir a 

Bowyd  a  wnaeth  byd  ini  8'  R.   Cudwaladr 


Cywybeu  by  SiON  Dafyd  vel  John  Davies  of  Penllyn. 

84  Marwnad  am  yr  un   Colwyn  l6Slf 

Wrth  edrych  Uewych  Uaweu     ....  h 

Un  wych  oedd  yn  iach  iddi 

85  Marwnad  Moris  [Parry],  Person  ILan  Elian  16S4 

Yr  Awenydd  sydd  mal  saeth c 

Awen  i  fod  yn  ei  fedd 
87  Cywydd  Marwnad  Charles  II.  16S5 

ILwyn  oedd  gynt  ILawen  ddigas     ....  d 

Gtennoes  gael  lago  inni. 

89  C.  i  yrru  'r  Glomsn  i  annerch  Tho'  Mostyn  yn  Hundain  16S6 
Yr  Edn  Iwyd  a'r  adain  ISrS     .     .     .     .  e 

Yn  wir  nes  delon  yn  61. 


Pages  91-294.  Blank. 

295  C.  i  Ofyn  Cymod  If  an  Uychan  ap  If  an  ap  Adda  o  Bengwern 

Saint  Christophr  a  fu  'n  offrwm     ....  f 

Ar  fy  nghefn  er  fy  nghyfoeth  Gutto  o'r  Glynn 

296  Cywydd   i    Feibion   Ifan    Uychan  .  .  .  oedd  Ynghastell  y 

Drewen  yngharchar  drwy  roi  o  Risiart  Trevor  ap  Ed: 

ap  Dd.  ap  Edn:  Gam 

Duw  a  roes  nid  oedd  ressyn g 

Amen  heb  gynddrygedd  mwy     Rhys  goch  o  Lyn  Dyfrdwy 

297  Cywydd  Marwnad  7  o  blcmt  i  Ruff,    ap  Rhys  ap  Gr:  ap 

Madog    Gloddaith    a  fuant  feirw  yr   un    wythnos  by 
Davydd  Hwyd  o  Nan  Conwy  Medd  Robin  Ddu 

Sorri  Dduw  Bensaer  yddwyd h 

Un  blaid  nef  fon  blodau  ni  Dd.  ILwyd 

298  Cywydd  Moliunt  Margret  v^  Ruff,  ap  Rhys  .  .   Glotheth 

(Mae  8  benill  ar  ol  yn  y  dechreu) 
Nid  at  ran  fach  yn  ei  fysg  (1.  17)     ...     .  i 

lechyd  uwch  chwi  ai  dichon  Lewys  Mon 

299  Cywydd  Moliant  I  S''   Thomas  Mostyn,  1599  in  margin 

Y  marchog  gwych  mawr  yw'cli  cad     ....  k 
Pump  a  mwy  i'r  pwmpa  i  medd                     Ow,  Gwynedd 

301    Cywydd  Moliant  i  S''  Thomas  Mostyn 

Y  marchog  glan  mawr  yw'cb  el6d     ....  I 
Pinagl  a  thop  i  Wynedd                                     Sion   Tudyr 

Cywyddeu  dros  Sian  ferch  S'  W  Gruff':  o'r  Penrhyn  a 
gwraig  Tho:  Mostyn  :  (a)  i  ofyn  Bwrdd  gan  Ellis  Prys 
D' ;  (b)  i  ofyn  Hwrdd  i  Cadwaladr  ap  Rob.  ap  Rhys 
o'r  Rhiwlas  Vmhenllyn 

303  Un  gair  mwyn  gore  i'm  oes     .     .     .     .  m 
Call  frys  ag  ewyUys  well                       Gruff'ydd  Hiraethog 

304  Yr  Ustus  hoU  r&s  Duw  sydd     ...  n 
T  Iwdn  fal  V  dyn  fydd                                     „               „ 


22 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   96., 


S'  Hugh  Roberts 


Sion  Tudyr 


Hum  Machno 


Sion  Mowddwy 


Rys  Cain 


Sion  Ttidur 


f 


a06  Cywydd  i  erchi  Tarw  gan  S'  Thomas  Mostyn 

Y  Uowydd  mawr  galiuog    .... 
Yr  hydd  aur  a  rhodd  oi  werth 

308  Owdl  i  S'  Thomas  Mostyn  Marchog 

Hir  einioes  dwyoes  blodeuyn     .     .     . 

Hirddewr  asawg  hardd  rosyn 
312   Owdl  i  S'   Thomas  Mostyn  Marchog 

Graddol  waed  urddol  dewrddyn     .     . 

Ach  gradd  a  welant  uwch  graddolion 

316  Owdl  i  S'  Tho:  Mostyn  SfC. 

Syr  Tomas  guras  Gei  Warwic     .     . 
Aur  wyt  yma  Syr  Tomas 

318  Owdl  Syr  Thomas  Mostyn  1604 

Marchog  wyd  arfog  d6rfel     .... 
Grym  meirchion  gorau  marchawc 

324  Cywydd  Moliant  Mr  Rosier  Mostyn 

Cwlm  a  roed  er  cloi  mawr  ras     .     . 
Gida  hynn  ag  oed  henaint 

327  Cywydd  Priodas  yr  un  gwr 

Y  wledd  enwog  Iwyddianys     ....  .     .  g 

Ddiddan  help  ir  ddcuddyn   hyfi  Edward  ap  Ralph 

329  Cyuiydd  Mar:  Griff:  ap  Rhys  ap  Gr:  ap  Madog  Gloddaith 

Duw  a  roe  ryw  dro  ir  iaith     ....  h 

A  dro  ei  gwr  ir  drigaredd  Tudur  Aled 

330  Cywydd  Marwnad  Catherine  Mostyn  gwraig  gynta  W"  Glyn 

TLifon — imperfect,  11.  1-14  and  19-21  only. 
Trees  cur  a  bair  treisio  cof  &c.  » 

331  Cywydd  Harry  Salesbury 

Y  ty  gwyn  fal  Tyganwy k 

Boed  hir  foch  bywyd  Harri  Lewis  Mon 

332  Cywydd  Moliant  i  M'  Roger  Mostyn  pan  briododd ferch 

M'  Sion  Gwyn  0  Waedir  15g6 

Neithior  deg  a  wna«th  air  da I 

hiroes  rhwng  Eossier  a  hon  Simwnt  Uychan 

334  Awdl  Foliant  i  Thomas  Mostyn  hynaf 

Tomas  mor  difas  mawr  dyiiad     ....  m 

Wyth  oed  diamau  ith  iad  Tomas  „  ,, 

337  Awdl  Foliant  ir  unrhyw  T.  M.  Esqr. 

Tri  chawr  Rodri  mawr  ai  dir  maith n 

Tair  rhan  y  creal  tri  un  creawdr  Lewis  Morganwg 

338  Awdl  Farwnad  ir  unrhyw  T.  Mostyn  Esqr. 

Eodri  mawl  ein  molwyn-og     ....  o 

Gwae  ni  am  Rodri  /  y  gwyn  'merodraeth     Sion  Brwynog 
Pages  341-564.    Blank. 


MS.  109.  Dares  Phrtgius  and  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  from  the 
"Gloddaeth  Library  (32)  9'7":  paper;  7f  X  5|  inches;  145  folios; 
imperfect,  and  much  stained  and  injured  by  damp;  bound  in  white 
vellum  ;  xvith  century.  No.  51  in  I'arry's  Catalogue.  One  page  bears 
the  name  of  William  dauid, 


geoffrkt's  brut,  welsh  grammaes,  etc.  23 

The  text  of  Dares  Phrygius  begins .-  Ac  y  dywetbwyd  hynny  if 
lamedon  vrenin  troya  ddyfod  llynges  o  Eoec  trwy  vor  Sygn  if  wlad  ef 
(y  Bruts,  p.  4,  1.  4)  .  .  .  ends :  Eifedi  tylwyth  antenor  pymkant  a  dwy 
vil  aeth  yny  longe  ynte  Ac  velly  gidac  elenys  ap  priaf  ai  vam  ai  ddwy 
chwiorydd  day  kant  a  thair  mil  o  ddynion.  Ac  velly  y  tervyna  ystori 
dared  yn  vyrr  am  y  ssige  off  troya. 
This  text  agrees  in  the  main  with  tliat  printed  in  the  Bruts  (Oxford,  1890). 

Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  .-  This  text  is  one  of  the  compiled  versions 
(see  Bruts,  p.  xvii.),  and  agrees  very  nearly  with  Brut  Tysilio,  in  the 
Myvyrian  Arch,  of  fVales.  It  ends :  A  honno  oedd  vam  gydwaladr  Ac  || 
(see  Myvyrian,  p.  474,  col.  ii.,  1.  41). 


MS.  110.  Three  Welsh  GtEammaes,  The  Dream  op  Maxbn 
Wledig,  Elucidaeium,  Commotes  and  Canteeds  of  Waxes,  Astkonomi, 
&c.  Paper  ;  7|  x  5|  inches ;  pages  i.-x.  and  1-246  ;  bound  in  veUum  ; 
in  excellent  preservation  all  but  the  outer  top  corners  of  pp.  7-88  ;  written 
by  Thomas  Williams  before  he'  began  to  sign  himself  Thomas  ap  Wiliam 
physicwr.  Pages  112-114  and  129-130  are  in  the  autograph  of  Robert 
Vaughan  of  Hengwrt.  16th  MayjI656;  and  Darogan  Belt  (page  216) 
appears  to  be  written  by  D.  Jones  [?  o  Lanvair  Dyffryn  Clwyd]. 

Page  1.  ILyfe  OELPYDYT  y  geedweyaeth  o  awdurdawd  Dauyd  du 
athrooDegeinglaHiradur[«c].  (Allan  o  hen  Dext  ar  vemrwn,  p.  30.) 
Imperfect  at,  the  beginning — the  text  now  begins :  anghyfiawn,  ymadrod 
perfEeith  cyfiawn  fyd  pryt  na  bo  gwyd  ac  absen  ygyt  &c. 

First  paragraph :  Teir  ffigur  yssyd  yn  ymadrod  y  iawnhau  ymadrod  ac 
y  esgussyaw  dros  gamymadrod  &c..  J'he  treatise  ends:  Triphetha  wna 
ofer  gerd,  methu  a  llygru  synnwyr  a  mwyhau  pechodeu.  Ac  velly  y 
terfyna  llyfr  celfydyt  &c. 

Page  31.  ILtee  Kbrddwriaeth  a  wnaeth  Einion  Efpeiriad  o 
Wynnedd  i  Syr  Rys  ap  Gruff,  ap  Howel  ap  Gruff,  ap  Ednyfed  Vychan 
yr  ynrydedd  a  raoliant  iddo  ef  (p.  76).  (Allan  o  lyfr  a  scrivenesit  ers 
gweU  no  chant  mlynedh,  p.  31.),   ■ 

Pedair  llythyren  ar  ugaint  y  sydd  nid  amgen.  A.  b.  c.  d.  e.  dd.  f.  ff.  g.  h. 
i.  k.  1.  II.  m.  n.  o.  p.  q.  r.  s.  t.  v.  w,  y.  Or  Uythyr  hyn  rrai  y  sydd  vud  a 
rhai  sydd  dawdd  &c.  It  ends  with  the  usual  Trioedd  y  Beirdd,  like  the 
preceding  grammar. 

Page  71:  Guttun  Owain  a  scrifenasai  y  Dwned  sydh  yn  calyn  ai  law  i 
hun  pan  oedh  oedran  ]fessu  Grist  yn  .  1455  .  ac  i  Philip  ap  Madoc 
ap  ^euan  ap  Jorwerth  yr  scrivenasai  ef  y  llyfr  a  chydaMr.  W:  Salsburi 
o  Rug  y  mae  y  llyfr  yr  awr  hon.  | 

Pa  sawl  rann  ymadrodd  y  sydd  ?  wyth,  nid  amgen  :  Henw,  a 
Kraehenw  a  Beryf,  a  Rracferyf,  a  Chyfraniad,  a  Chysylltiad  ac 
Arddodiad,  a  Thaflodiad,  &c. 

Ends  .-Am  dolurio  oedd  danturio 

Am  oer  gurio  a  mawr  gariad. 
'"  '  Tma  te.rfyn  Gutvn  Owain. 

Page  112.  Dewisdrem  Davydd  ap  Gwilim .-  Diwrnod  eglurloew 
gofheuloc  difrwydrwynt  oerfelawg  ac  amwlith  cyfuwchglaer  a  niwl 
grwybr  ar  gychwyn,  a  gwenhaul  yn  rhywfanu,  &c. 

'      b:  Gasdrem  Dafydd  ap  Gwilim :    Nosddydd  tywyll-lawn   traglaw 
temestlbraff,  llymgraff  ogleddwynt,  &c. 

c.  Breuddwyd  ILewelyn  goch  ap  Meuric  hen :  Trirhagorawl  rwym- 
serch  a  freuddwydiodd  trywyr  gynt,  yn  amser  Arthur  ar  y  tair  rhianedd 
teocaf  a  serchoccaf,  a  oedd  yn  ynys  Prydein  yn  yr  amser  hwnnw,  nyt 


24  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   110. 

amgen  no  ferch  Trystan  ap  Tallwch  ar  Esyllt,  &c.  .  .  ends  :  Wele  obrwy 
y  rhai  a  dorrant  eu  priodasau  onys  edifarhant,  Duw  a  rotho  i  ni  ras  y 
wneuthur  hynny.     Amen     Thomas  ap  William  physygwr  1609. 

Page  114.  Dewisbethau  Davydd  lygat  Cwsg  oedd  yn  cam  y  ferch  o 
Wynedd :  Tyddyn  cilgafrwth  a  hogld^^  hiddyglyd,  &c. 

b.  Ni  ludd  bonedd  fethu  :  Ni  ludd  doethineb  bechu,  &c. 

c.  15  Cynnedd  march  da :  Tair  o  ran  gwr  :  yn  hyf,  yn  faleh  &c. 
Page  115    Gorchestion,  being  a   selection  of  a  few  lines  from  D. 

Naamor,  Da.  Hepynt,  Hugh  Cae  Uwyd,  J.  Eydh.  ap  Je.  llwyd,  Rhys 
Goch  or  Eyry  [sic],  The.  neu  D.  Benwyn,  D.  ap  Edmwnt,  Morys  ap 
;feuan  ap  Eignon,  Ho.  ap  S--  Matheu,  Bledhyn  du  was  y  Cwd,  Cyw 
Garan,  ^olo,  and  Rees  Pefiardh. 

Page  123.  Annerch  lythyr  Gruff:  ap  Jeikin  EJn  Vychan  at  y  Saer  o 
Lan  S.  Sior :  Vymdhirieidgwbl  ymgeledhgar  gydymeith  &c. 

Page  125.  ILythyr  annerch  at  verch  :  Vy  mynychawl  garedig  eurverch 
vyn<'orcbymyn  attoch  benwes  gariadferch  bleth  euraid  &c. 

Page  126.  Ateb  yr  llythyr  or  blaen:  Vymdhiriedgwbl  buredic 
flfydhvrawd  o  dwymneidhrwydh  medhylvryd  ewyllys  &c. 

Page  127.  Dewisbetheu  Ddt.  Melienydh :  Boreugwaith  tawelglaev,  a 
byrrwlith  ar  veillion  &c. 

Page  128.  Casbetheu  Jeuan  Brydydh  Mr:  Boreugwaith  tywylbiiwl 
a  braslaw  pigogdhu  &c. 

Page  129.  The  above  Dewisbetheu  and  Casbetheu  repeated  in  the 
hand  of  Robt.  Vaughan. 

Page  130.  Cas  bethau  Owen  Cyfdliog :  crynwas  heb  gamp,  crynfarch 
heb  rygyng,  cryn  afon  heb  pont,  bardd  anigrif  &c. 

b.  Dewis  betheu'r  Verch  o  Wynedd :  Gwisc  wyrddliw  o  ddail  coed 
brigowglas  a  meillion  gamleddwellt  ac  arianwlith  fis  Mai,  a  niwl  gwyn 
goleu  &c. 

Page  131.   Yma  y  soniwn  am  ffigurae  ai  rhannau*  yrhai  a  ymchwel- 
awdd  W.  S.  or  Itadin  ar  Groeg  ynghamberaec  ac  wedyr  angwanegu 
gan  Tho:  W"'  j  Schema  sydd  sicrawch  ar  air  neu  synwyr  yn  rhagori  ar 
ddeuall  y  cyffredin.  /  &c.  ends :  Interrogatio — Gofynchwedl : 
Beth  a  yrr  blaen  by th  ar  blaid  ? 
blaenor  a  byw  ei  lonaid  Tudur  Aled. 

Page  163.  The  Dream  of  Maxen  Wledig :  Maxen  wledic  oedd 
^merawtr  yn  Rufain  a  theccaf  gwr  oedh  a  doethaf  a  gorau  a  wedhai  yn 
4merawtr  ar  a  fuassai  cynnoc  ef.  dadleu  brenhinoedh  oedh  arnaw  &c. 
ends :  Ac  y  cawsant  yn  eu  cyngor  Uadh  o  bob  vn  blaen  tavot  y  wreic 
rrac  llygrft  eu  hiaith  ac  o  achos  tewi  or  gwragedh,  a  dywedyt  or  gwyr 
yngwydh  gwyr  a  hyny  rrac  llygru  eu  hiaith,  ac  o  blegyt  hyny  y  gelwit 
hwynt  gwyr  ILydaw  neu  Ihetaw,  Ac  o  dhyno  y  daeth  yn  fynych  y  ynys 
Brydein.     A  hwn  yw  brudhwyt  Maxen. 

Page  170.  henwae  meibion  Lhywarch  hen :  pyll,  Selyf  a  Sandef. 
Eithyr  Erthyr  ac  argad  tri  chennyat  afiawen  Hew  araf  ac  Vrien  tarw  trin, 
mechydd,  run  araf  or  drud  arall  kynlluc  kyndylic.  talan  heilin  maenwyn 
maen  a  madawc  a  medel.     Selyf  heilin  Haw  lliver  gwen  fawl  llvrien. 

Page  171.  Evangel  NicodemHi.  neii,  yn  hydrach  scriuen  Nicodemns 
o  herwydh  nat  erbyniodh  yr  Ecclwys  ontd  pedwar  Edangel :  Yn  yr  awr 
y  pechwys  Adaf  ymparadwys,  y  gwrthladhwyt  o  honei  wedy  y  bechawt, 

*  W.  Sals:  wedi  cyfieithu  y  llyfr  hwn  ai  gyrrodd  i  Kuffud  Hiraethoc  {maiywat 
note). 


LIST  OF   HUNDREDS,  YMBORTH  YB  ENEID.  25 

A  Ihef  a  dhodes  oe  welet  yn  noeth  &c ends :  Ac  ar  hono  y 

crogassant  yn  harglwydh  ni  ^essu  Crist  yr  iechyt  yr  ae  Creto  ydaw,  yr 
hwn  y  mae  enrydedh  a  gogoniant  tragywydh  ganthaw.     Amen. 

Page  183.  Jn  araser  U'n  ap  ^or"  drwyndwn  y  tywyssawc  y  gossottwyt  y  Cantref. 
oedh  ar  Cymyts  meddai  Tho:  Williams. 

Dechreu  Cantrefoedh  Gwynedh  ai  CymydcB  allan  or  llyfr  gwyn  o 
Hergest.  Then  follows  a  list  identical  (except  in  orthography)  with 
that  in  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest  (see  Bruts,  edited  by  Rhys  and  Evans, 
1890,  pp.  407-412).  At  the  end  of  this  list  occurs  the  statement: 
Alhan  or  hen  lyver  Gwyn  o  Hergest  a  sgrivenwyt  yn  amser  Edw:  y 
.  4  .  brenhin  Ihoecr.  , 

Page  188.  A  list  of  bards  and  their  places  of  burial.  ^  Begins :  Owen 
ap  Gwalch7»ei  .  .  dd.  ap  Gwilym  agladdpwyt  ynhal  y  llychau 
.  .  .  ll'n  goch  ar  fEord  y  bu  farw  .  .  .  dd.  Nanmor  yn  y  tuy 
Gwyn  ar  daf  ....  Tudur  Alet  a  Rees  Nanmor  ynhy'r  brodyr 
ynghaervyrddin  &c ends  :  Rees  Cain  Croesos[wallt], 

Page  189.  Teulu  Cybi  Sunt  .- 

Da  oedh  Gybi  ai  dheuddec  morwyr  &c.        Howel  Rinald. 

b.  Y  saith  gevndyr  Saint:  Dewi  a  Chybi  achubant  beunydh  &c    ., 
y  saith  hyn  aethant  i  Buvain  i  wedhiaw  am  law,  wedi  golli  3  blynedh  &c. 

c.  Iiywelyn  gwawdodyn  gwrdd  &c.  dd  llwyd  ap  Wn  ap  gr. 
Page  190.  Bknk. 

Page  191.  Selections  from  Ymborth  yr  Enaid  {see  ILyvyr  yr  Agkyr)  : 
ac  yn  berffaith  o  gariad  goruchaf.  Ac  yn  gofalu  am  yn  iechyd  ni  Ac. 
ends:  Ac  felly  ]f  teruyna  y  libel  a  elwir  drych  yr  ufyddawd  yr  hwn 
y  sydd  ymborth  ir  enaid.  Oed  yr  arglwyd  pan  wnaethbwyt  y  llyfr 
hwn.     M.456.     1456.     0  law  Guttyn  Owain. 

b.  Pwy  bynac  a  fyiio  dyfod  i  vn  or  nefolion  raddau  ysbrydohon  a 
ddy-wetpwyt  fry  &c.  ends :  Y  mae  hefyd  craffter  arall  i  vfudd-dawd 
ac  i  fwrw  balchder  ymddaith  byr  yw  ffordd  graff  drwy  anghyreifftiau. 
Ef  a  ddyly  dyn  a  ymddyrchafo  *  *  *  * 

Page  213.  #  *  *  #  wrth  i  goleuhau.  Diffic  yr  haul  yw  bod  y  lleuad  y 
rrom  ni  ai  hi  &c.  .  .  .  Sol  sef  yw  bono :  .  .  .  ends :  Luna  sef 
yw  hwiiw  y  lleuad  gwlib  ac  oerfeloc  a  chyffroedic  ac  danaw  y  mae  ILoegr 
a  Chymry  ar  Alban  ac  Ewerddon,  Ac  am  hyiiy  y  maent  anwastadion  ac 
anghywiriaid  oil./ 

h.  Deg  cant  sydd  yn  y  fil,  dec  mil  yn  y  Ueng  &c. 

c.  Dwy  atton  a  deugain  a  fydd  yn  yr  wns,  deuddec  wns  yn  y 
moment,  40  moment  a  fydd  yn  yr  awr  &c. 

Page   214.    Tri  hyd  y   gronyn   gwenith  sydd  yn   y   fodfedd  .  3 
modfedd  yn  lied  y  half  &c. 

Page  215.  ILyma  freuddwyd  Grono  ddu  o  fon :  Myfi  a  bair  terfyn 

gelyn  gilmant ends :  a  bradoc  gyfilliach  a  ffeiiau  a 

chwydd,  a  marwolaeth  heb  gwyn. 

Page  216.  Bid  S.  wyddeles  yn  weddUion  &c. 
6.  Arthur  ap  Vthyr  ap  Kustenin  ap  Kynnfor  &c. 
c.   Ychydic  allan  o  ddarogan  Beli    a  Taliessin  ai  cant    D.  Jones  .  o 
.  hen  lyfre.     Gwelais    aer    dur  rac    caer   vanyeri    &c.     ends :  pan  dyfo 
ywain  marchawc  mechydd  yuaeth  o  dyuydd  ked  a  dyvyddi./ 


26  ;  ,     MJPSTYN  MANUSqEIPT  llj.  ,.-,, 

* 

Page  217.  Medical  receipts,  such  as'  how  to  make  hair  long  and  fine, 
how  to  know  whether  a  woman  with  child  bears  a  boy  or  {^irl,  how  to 
fix  loose  teeth,  how  to  make  meddyglyn  from  plants,  medicine  for  the 
ague,  &c. 

Pages  218-222.  Blank.  , 

Page  223.  Astronomi.  Rheol  y  SJT  neu  Wybryddiae^h :  Celvydhyd 
yw  i  adnabod  rhediad  neu  hwyl  a  gry»n.  y  corph  &c.  ends  :  Hyn  am 
Astronomi,  mae  'n  ol  son  am  naturiae  yr  Arwydhion  ar  planedae,  a  pha 
vodh  y  gweithiant  yny  corph  daearol,  Hyny  a  berthyn  oil  i  Astrologia, 
Strwla,  ne  dhewiniaeth  or  S^r  yn  yr  h-v^n  nyd  duwiol  i  Christion  vod 
yn  rhy  ysmala  vanwl,  neu  ry  ymgeis£;ar  chwiliongar. 

E.D.     Tho:  W./  Mehevin. 

Pages  245-246.  Blank. 


MS.  111.  CywyDbu  a  Pheis-Abvbu  by  W,  Cynwal  (in  the 
author's  autograph,  apparently),  from  the  "  Q-loddaeth  Library.''  Paper ; 
7|  X  5^  inches  ;  275  folios ;  much  injured  by  damp  and  sadly  muti- 
lated in  many  places  ;  bound  in  white  veUum.  The  whole  consists  of 
eulogies  and  elegies  with  the  coats  of  arms  (mostly  coloured)  of  the 
respective  subjects  lauded  or  lamented.  The  arms  are  placed  to  the 
left  of  the  page,  and  the  name  of  the  bearer  is  written  in  the  margin  at 
right  angles  to  the  rest  of  the  writing ;  in  place  of  the  words  italicised 
in  the  phrase  "  a  due  yr  arvav  i/ma  o  dad  i  dad  "  the  marginal  name  has 
been  substituted  throughout  in  small  capitals. 

1  Kowyd    moliant    Riclhard]    Grvff\j/d]    o  yfionyd  a  due 
arvav  Colwtn — imperfect. 
'  pawb  drosto  i  hvn  jm  vn  jaith     .     /    .     .  a 

doed  vddyn  mewh  dedwyddyd  (1.  95)    *  *  *  * 

3   Title,  arms,  II.  1-2,  15-26,  and''!S  to  the  end  are  lorn  away. 
Gorav  /  r  /  mwyaf  i  gariad  (1.  3)  6 

Robert  wynn  ar  drem  i  dad    ..    .     . 
or  penRyn  gwir  pwyn  Rann  gwaed    (=1.  71). 
A  chynau  i  ddivwlch  henwaed  ***** 
Folio  5  is  torn  away. 

6  Elegy  to  Meistres  Elin  j  had  Syr  Sion  *  *  *    jo  lys  *  *  # 

bilstwn  hael  /  died  '/.57s; — (Title,  arms,  and  lines  1-26 

are  torn  away.) 
Gwyr  jfessv  *  *  *  galon  i  gwr  /  Robert  (1.  27)    ....     c 
yw  mab  ai  merch  y  mhob  man 

7  Kowyd  moliant  John    Grvfflydl  o  gefn  atnwlch  yn  lyn  a 

due  arvav  Trahaearn  goch. 

Y  barwnvab  orwinvaingk ,     t      rf 

Trwy  eigion  byd  trie  yn  benn 

9  Kowyd  marwnad  am  sian  v}    morvs  ap  Elissav   ap   morvs 
a  due  arvav  Owain  gwyneo. 
Ryverr  ywr  oes  mewn  gloe[s]  glav     ....  g 

Enaid  sian  garr  bronn  dW  sydd 

\\b  K.  Mar:  am  huw  ap  John  o  lann  vendigaid  a  due  arvav 
Eltstan  globRto— II.  66-73  imperfect. 
Ond  beivs  yn  oed  bowyd     .     .     .     ,     ,  f 

dvw  wynn  a  fo  da  yw  Enaid 


WILLIAM  KYNW^L'S  I'OE;I!<i;S.  27 

136  Mar:  Wiliam  ap  ninaU.[o  *  m  *]unyrth  ynn  iann  \.Vach]- 
raith  Sfc. — (The  arms  and  part  of  lines  1-2  are  torn  away.) 
*  #  #  *  gwann  chwerwdic  Ennyd     ......  « 

bvra  nifer  bro  nefoedd 
156  Marwnad  am   dd.  ap  Rys  ap  dd.  ap  gwilim  o  Iwydiarth  y 
tnon  a  due  arvav  tegrtn  AP  karwed  [1]* 

Gwae  fon  a  fv  gyvanned ,6 

a  drwssiodd  j  dy  /  r  /  jfessv 
176  Moliant   Wiliam  ap  Tvdvr  o  Egryn  ymhlwyf  y  bermo 
a  due  arvav  marchvo     [2] 

Y  gwr  o  hyd  garwy  hen c 

ac  Er  vn  dwc  air  yn  does 

196  Mar:  am  domas    ap  ^o6[e]»-«  ap   Gryff.  ap  Rys  or  iwyn 
dedwyd  a  due  arvav  Madoc  ap  Mred     [3] 

disymwth  y  daw  symvd d 

a  rodd  yr  ynnillodd  nef 

22  Kowyd  i  dychanv  yscraff  dql  y  Kafn  ar  hqrth  am  fy  iestair 
trwod  j  vyned  at  M''  Pari  ar  wyl  wenn  frewy  arvav 
EDNOWAIN  BENDEW  a  dwc  mastr  Pari  o  dadi  dad    [4] 

Mae  vn  gwr  mwy  noc  Eraii e 

heb  perigl  at  M''  Parri 
24  Marwnad  am  gatrin  trevor  vi  John  trefor  a  due  arvav  Tvdvr 
Trevor     [5] 
anwadal  yn  newidiaw     ........         ,.,  f 

duw  j  hvn  aed  ai  henaid 
26  Marwnad  am  EdwarP  ap  John   Wynn  o  lawn,  dervel  a  due 
arvav  Riryd  flaw     [6] 
iawer  kwyn  bid  iai  r  kanv     ....  g 

Enaid  Edwart  nodedic 
28  Kowyd   y   dychymic    ax   dychymic   oed   merch  a  dowssai  j 
morwyndod  yr  hwnn  nid  oed  m,ono  yw  rot  achos  j  dorri 
or  blaen  Sfc.  a  daw  i  arvav  Marchvo     [7] 

Y  dyn  wenn  bvr  am  kvriod     ....  h 
js  mwyn  Eigr  nas  mynagwn 

286  Kowyd  i  ovyn  dav  vaen  Ufa  gann  Edw:  ap  roesser  o  vodyi- 
ing  yn  Riwabon  a  dvc  arvav  Elidr  ap  Rrs  SAis      [8] 
Wrth  aduabod  lownglod  wled  ......  i 

y  glod  melwas  gwlad  maelawr 
306  K.  i  ofyn  Rys  ap  Mred:  gan  John  Tvdvr  prydyd  a  dve  arvav 
lowarch  holbwrch    [9] 

y  bard  jowndrefn  bwrd  windravl k 

Rys  yn  hwr  prys  dop  yr  Rod. 
326  K:  i  roi  Rys  ap  mred:  ac  j  ^angos  i  gynedvav  ac  i  ateb  W 
Kynwal  yr  hwn  a  dpc  arvav  Trahaebn  goch  o  lyn  [10] 

y  bard  gwynn  Ebrwydd  ganiad I 

f  gyd  y  Eof  [gid  a  Rys]  Joh[ii  Tvdvr'] 

Folio  34  is  torn  away  except  a  small  fragment. 

346  Title,  arms,  and  lines  1-16  are  torn  away. 

ym  OS  da  wel  dyma  ystor  (=  1.  17) m 

araith  fwyn  gygor  ith  vardd 

*  The  numbers  in  square  brapkets  i^efer  to  the  number  of  the  same 
Cywyd  in  Mostyu  MS.  1.  It  is  clear  that  MS.  Ill  was  mutilated  before 
MS.  1  was  transcribed,  because  the  latter  omits  the  Cywydeu,  which  are 
imperfect  in  the  former. 


28  MOSTTN   MANUSCRIPT   111. 

366  Kow:  Krjmod  Rwng  Tomas  ap  Roberlf]  ap  yr.  ap  Rys  ai 
nai  pirs  vab  j  frawd  hynaf  Robert  wynn  a  dvgant 
arvav  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  [11] 

Ymgynvl  y  raae  gwenwyn " 

rwyddynt  i  glyvareddv 

39  Kow:    Marwnad  am  Jeuan   ap  dd:  ap  Rys  ap  reinait    o 
ystnjdalvna  dvc  arvau  OWAIN  AP  Edwjn  [12] 
Yn  ych  oed  gwanc  a  chadarn     ....  " 

ail  Einioes  drwy  lawenydd 

41  K:   moliant  huw  ap  Mis  ap   harri  o  ysceifioc  yn  hegaingl 
a  dvc  arvau  Ednowain  bendew   [13] 

A  gano  ac  awenyd '' 

Enwoc  wr  kai  /  n  /  Egored 

43  Mar:  am  y  doctor  gwynn  a  dvc  arvav  Owain  gwtned  [14] 

Dan  oval  hvd  anivyi- ° 

ni  fV  /  r  /  vn  nef  jr  Enaid 

45  Kow:  marwnad  am  harri  ap  Robert  ap  leuan  o  henian  a 
dvc  arvav  Marchweithian  [15] 

Jessv  draw  Eissiav  a  droes « 

doe  i  degwch  dvw  ai  dygodd 

47  Kow:  Moliant  John  Miltwn  o  Wavnynoc  yn  hen  iann  a  dvc 
arvav  Robert  Miltwn  [16] 

beth  yn  goel  byth  a  wna  gair / 

aed  i  sion  ga«l  oed  y  saint 

49  Kowyd  i  domas  ap  daud  ap  Rys  or  betws,  pann  fv  glaf 
a  doedyd  i  varw,  a  dvc  arvav  Madoc  ap  Mrbd.     [17] 

Klown  chwedl  am  wr  kenedlawc g 

yw  lys  wenn  ]  gael  oes  hir 

51  Kowyd   i    bias     Wiliam  Klwch    o    dinbych    a    dvc   arvav 
WiLiAM  Klwch— varpedect 

Ac  awenyd  gwiw  annian h 

a  ffedair  Uofd  ar  y  Uys  (=1.  38)  #  #  «  « 

Folios  52-53  are  missing. 

54  Title,  arms,  and  II.  1-36  are  wanting 

yno  i  kae  gler  gryfder  gwraidd  (1.  37) t 

digonol  dvc  \  Enaid 

55  Kowyd  i  ovyn  Elyrch  gann  John  ap    Tomas  ap    Wiliam 

or  disserth  a  dvc  arvav   Grvff:  aocH  o  Ros 

Y  gwr  ai  gorfE  yn  graic  ]&#  *  « k 

Glod  helaeth  glain  nod  haeliou 

57  Kowyd  Marwnad  Marged  vj,  volant   Grvff:  or  plus  newyd 
y  mon  a  dvc  arvav  Edn:  VYCHAN     [18] 

braw  at  wlad  briwo  Tlodion I 

yno  dvw  ai  henaid  aeth 

59  Moliant  John  Wynn  ap  Robert  vychan  o  Iann  vfvd  a  dvc 
arvav  Marchweithian  [19] 

Y  lew  /   n  /  y  ffre  lawn  o  ffrwytli m 

hap  yr  Rawc  yn  hop^yr  Rod 


WILLIAM   KYNWAL'S  POEMS.  29 

616  Kowyd  Marwnad  am  yr  arglwyd  domas  Escob  iann  Elwy  a 
dvc  arvav  Syr  Grvff;  Lwrn  [20] 

Y  bowyd  byrr  ar  byd  bach     ....  a 
jfawn  barch  val  y  bv  /  n  /  y  byd 

636  Kowyd  i  ovyn  §  o  gessic  gan  John  oioin  o  Iwydiarth  a  dvc 
arvav  Kelynin     [21] 

Maith  yw  son  am  wyth  y  syd 6 

bid  i  pwyth  jr  wyth  ai"  ol 

656  Kowyd  Moliant  Wiliam  hvw  arglwyd  Escob  iann  Elwly] 
a  dvc  arvav  Marchvd     [22] 

J  wr  ai  wlad  ar  i  law c 

i  wllys  o  hynn  allan 

68  Marwnad  am  Wiliam  Koetmor  o  goet  mor  yn  Iann  lechid 
a  dvc  arvav  Madoc  ap  Jardvn    [23] 

Jr  byd  hvd  er  bod  hyder d 

aeth  gorav  nerth  j  gaer  net' 

70  Kowyd  Marwnad  am  hvw  ap  daiid  ap  Robert  o  gaer  Ron  a 
dvc  arvav  Syr  grvff:  lwtd     [24] 

Mae  oerwaew  hyd  y  merwvn e 

hvw  i  dy  dduw  y  ddaeth 

726  Marwnad  am  John  ap  Robert  ap  lywelyn  ap  Jthel  a  gastei 
march  a  dvc  arvav  Kynilyn  varchoc     [25] 
byrr  y  w  /  r  /  byd  bar  oer  heb  wed     .....  f 

yw  wyr  hynod  hir  Einioes 

746  Kowyd    yn   dangos    le  i  priodwyd   plant   pirs  Mostyn   o 
dalakrav  a  dvc  arvav  Tvdvr  Trevor — imperfect 

Y  karw  gwindravl  kaer  gandrws g 

Siryfion  kryfion  kroewvaeth  (=1.  64)*  *  # 

Folio  76  is  wanting. 

77  Title,  arms,  and  II.  1-16  are  wanting 

ni  feiddiais  ddoedvd  hvd  die  (1.  17) A 

och  or  been  yw  charv  byth 

78  Kowyd  Moliant  John  aer  y  Konwy  o  vodrydan  a  dvc  arvav 

jfARL  KONIAS      [26] 

davud  ai  wawd  vvvd  ^or i 

ar  rann  sion  dair  Einioes  hydd 

80   Marwnad   am  varged  v^    jeuan  gwraie    birs  gr:   serssiant 
a  dvc  arvav  Edwin  (11.  75-88  are  imperfect) 

heno  gyd  gwae  hyn  ac  jav k 

ai  i  dy  ddvw  dedwydd  oedd 

826  [Kowydd]  Marwnad  #  #  #  #     salbri  o  *  *  *  *  ian — (The 
arms  and  the  rest  of  the  title  and  11.  1-5  are  torn  off.) 

###***#*  di  overed / 

Enaid  hvw  sy  /  n  /  hy  dvw  dad 

846  Kowyd   Marwnad    am    hari   Konwy   o    Sychdyn   yn    Iann 
Evrgain  a  dvc  arvav  Jarl  Konias     [27] 

Kwynwn  mae  achos  kenym m 

If  enaid  byth  dvw  ai  barn 
866  Moliant  Rys  iwyd  or  hob  ap  dd:  Iwyd  a  dvc  arvav  Kad 

AP  GRONW 

Er  nad  gwiw  is  y  kiw  kawc n 

wrid  Tess  o'  ryw  y  Twyssawc  (=1.  64)*  #  *  » 


30  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   111. 

Folio  88  is  wanting,    i  This  fqlio  contains  the  end  of^'the  previous  and  the 
beginning  of  the  following  Cywydd. 

89      Finagl  vchel  a  welir  (1.  11) a 

Gader  hwnn  yn  gyd  ar  hydd 

906  Kowyd  i  ojyn  korn  hanv  gann  Wiliam  ap  John  ap  elis 
o  sceifioc  a  dvc  arvav  EnwiN     [28] 

Os  air  Eraii  a  soran b 

El  am  hwnn  -j  Wiliam  hael 

926  Kowyd  Moliant  Tomas  ap  hari  Ojer  m'  parri  a  dinas  bassi 
a  dvc  arvav  Ednowajn  bendbw     [29] 

Pa  -vrr  jfvangk  yn  priviaw c 

]fddo  i  daw  wrth  vodd  J  dad 

946  Kowyd  i  ofyn  geifr  i  blwyf  iann  odyn  ae  yn  henwi  4  a  Ryd'i 
ap  Tomas  yn  gyntaf  a,  dvc  arvav  fARL  dessmwnt 
— U.  65-72  imperfect 

Pie  lawn  wed  plwy  Iann  odyn d 

a  honn  allann  oi  hanwyl 

966  \_Kowydd  M^arwnad  am  ^i^  *  *  *  d  vi  Robert  a  dvc  arvav 
«  *  «  ■ — (The  arms  have  been  torn  off.) 

O  #  »  *  ami  bai  /  r  /  byd  yma e 

doeth  hwnn  dvw    aeth  ax  henaid 

986  Kowyd  i  ovyn  bowliav  gafai  gann  Jeuan  iwyd  o  Jal  a  dvc 
arvav  Vntr  o  fAL     [30] 

Pa  wr  dilwfr   pared  wled f 

tarw  knot  gwyr  kair  kant  oi  gwerth 

1006  Kowyd  Marwnad  am  John  up  Rys  Wynn  o  Iann  beris  a  dvc 
arvav  Gryff:  ap  Ktnan    [31]    , 

Och  yr  hawc  mae  kwyn  a  chri g 

a  dvw  nef  ai  Enaid  aeth 

1026  Mol:  W  hvws  arg:  Escpb  iann  Elwy  a  dvc  yr  arvav  yma  0 
dad  i  dad  ond  y  Ros  ar  ssiff  a  roes  yrherodr  am  i  Eni  yn 
Ros     [32] 

bu  voessen  dwyssoc  hen  hael ^ 

y  mater  yw  kael  meitr  kaint 

1046  Marwnad  Howel  vychan  ap  dd:  iwyd  o  Iann  fwiyn  a  dvc 
arvav  RiRTD  flaid     [33] 

Edrychwn  da  yw  /  r  /  iechyd j 

na  bo  ef  heb  nef  a  nawdd 

1066  Moliant  i  Wmffrai  ap  hvw  gwynn  or  \hendwr  yn  y  deirnion 
a  dvc  arvav  Jarl  vessmwnt     [34] 

Gwae  ni  weled  heb  gredyd j^ 

a  fo  \  hwnn  Efo  hi 

1086  Kowydd  i  dychanv    Tyivan  oed    ymherian    wain  brvwtwn 
o  vwras  a  -dvc  arvav  Arg:  brvwtwn     [35] 
Y  iys  gled  liiossoc  Ian     .....  / 

draic  lem  waedd  dryglam  iddi 

110  Kowyd  i  ovyn  March  gann  robert  ap  ho'  vychan  o  Iann  jwiyn 
a  dvc  arvav  Ririd  FtAiD     [36] 
Pwy  lana  mhob  haelioni     .....  ^ 

a  ffrwyth  y  march  a  ffeth  mwy 

112  Kowyd  Kariad  i  wraic  a  daw  j  arvav  Marchvd 

dyd  daed  y  wenn  dowdid  wyd „ 

am  a  genais  am  gwynedd 


WI];iLIAM  kynwal's  pqems.  31 

131  Moliant  volant  pilstwn  o  garnarvon  a  dvc  arvav  S'  roesser 

PILSTWN  HEN      [37] 

Kair  devraw  y  karw  dewrwych a 

dros  enw  byd  arcs  yn  benn 

133  Moliant  i  rvffvd  dauis  a  dvc  arvav  S'  Gruff:  j^wyd     [38] 

Y  gwr  syd  hygar  swydav b 

aed  ar  hwnn  dri  oed  yr  hydd 

135  Marwnad  am  John  ap    Wiliam  ap  John  a  sceivioc  a  dvc  arvav 
Ednowain  bendew 

Mawr  na  welir  mvrn  alaeth c 

oi  f^aer  ir  Uann  gann  gri  /  r  /  llv  (=  1.  78)  *  #  »  * 

138  Title,  arms,  and  lines  1-32  are  wanting 

J  veilch  mon  dyna  vwlch  mawr  (=  1.  33)  .     .     .  d 

ai  ddoe  i  mewn  J  dy  ddvw  mawr 

139  Marwnad  am  John  ap  Ryderch  o  dref  gaean  y  mon  a  dvc 

arvav  KoiWTN 
Mae  oer  boen  gwyr  mawr  a  bach     ....  e 

lakio  hen  waed  hwlkyn  wych  (=1.  32)  ***** 

Folios  140-1,  which  contain  the  end  of  the  previous  and  the  beginning  of 
the  following  poem,  are  wanting. 

142  hwn  a  chwiliodd  o  choelyd  (=1.  29)     ....  / 
^  gatrin  Roe  win  yn  Rad 

143  Kowyd  j  athrod  biokys''.  ac  jeuan  ap  John  Pigod  o  chwibrain 

a  dwe  arvav  PiGOD     [39]  ' 
Pann  henwer  pwy  yn  hynny     ....  g 

wyr  gyfion  air  a  gafodd 

Folio  145  wanting. 

146  yn  dy  Iwyth  wrth  ddwyn  dy  lin  (=1.  21)     ....  h 
yngharw  hygar  ynghrogen 

147  Moliant  John  Wynn  ap  Tomas  Gruff:  o  benyberth  yn  lyn  a 

dwc  arvav  KoLWTN     [40] 
Af  i  lyn  i  voliannv     ....  i 

ac  aed  ]  sion  gadw  oes  hir 

149  Moliant   Ric:    Vych\an']   ap  Rys  vyeh   o  gors  y  gedol  ap 
Wiliam  vych  o  gil  geran  a  dvc  art^av  Ossber     [41] 
Pwy  yn  lyn  penn  hoi  wyned     ....  k 

J  bid  denw  ar  byd  danad 

151  Marwnad  am  JevMn  iwyd  ap  Rissiart  ap  Jeuan  or  benard  a 
dvc  arvav  vo:  goch  ap  dd:  ap  gruff:     [41] 
Cri  Uym  heb  na  grym  na  gwres     ....  I 

yw  dy  ac  Enaid  Jevem 

152b  Marwnad  am  gadwaladr  ap  Meredyd  o  ved  kelert  a  dvc 
arvav  Owain  Gwyned     [43] 
Mawr  kri  oer  marw  kyw  /  r  /  Eryr     ....  m 

Krist  ai  dvc  Ef  ]  nef  nawdd 

155  K.  Kariad  i  v}  a  daw  J  arvav  Kadrod  kalch  vynyd  [44] 

byd  dyras  yw  "bod  biraeth     ....  n 

orav  march  ar  j  mai  i 

156 A  Kowyd  i  ovyn  Medyf  Gann  dauid  iwyd  ap  Mred  ap  gro: 
ap  gruff:  geihin  a  dvc  arvav  Marchweitblan     [45]  , 
nid  bard  neb  ar  Jowndeb  gin     .     .     ^     .        ■  o 

vchod  gael  ifechyd  ac  oes 


32  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   111. 

Dav  gywydd  kariad  i  verch  a  dowssai  oed  pann  ganai  y  goc  ac 
a  daw  j  arvav  Marchvo     [46] 

1586       Wy  mor  wann  drist  mae  /  r  /  ^aen  draw      ....  a 

doed  i  goed  o  daw  y  goc 

160       Y  goc  Edn  di  goec  adail     ....  h 

J  Iwyn  vnwaith  y  leni     [47] 

162  Kowyd  i  ovyn  dav  benntan  haearn  gann  John  ap  Edwart 
Iwyd  0  lann  ynys  a  daw  or  arvav  JeR:  Sais     [48] 

Y  Hew  /  n  /  wyneb  iann  ynys      ....  c 
dyn  dewr  pvr  dan  dri  oi  pwyth 

164  Kowyd  j  bias  doctor  Mevric  a  dwc  arvav  Kadavabl     [49] 

Mcessen  drwy  /  r  /  Tad  grymvssawl     ....  d 

daed  yw  yn  hwnn  daed  yn  hen 

166  K.  j  verch  a  daw  j  arvav  Kadrod  Kalch  vyntd     [50] 

Gofalvs  wyf  gyfle  serch     ....  e 

a  wna  Tal  a  mwyned  honn 

167i  Moliant  John   Wynn  ap  Robert  ap  feuan  ap  kynuric  o 
goparleni  a  dwc  arvav  3fAl)0C  or     [51] 
Kam  yw  Eoi  nid  kymar  hael     ....  f 

hwnn  a  fo  hen  Efo  hi 

1696  Moliant   Edwart  hvws    ressefer   Gras  y  frenhines    a  dwc 
arvav  KrNVRic  ap  Siwalon 

Y  ryssevr  ffre.i  ^vangk     ....  g 
avr  a  gwinoedd  wraic  annwyl 

172   Title,  arms,  and  lines  1-6  are  wanting 

a  godo  /  n  /  nvw  nis  gwad  neb  (=1.  7) h 

Tynn  a  ffynniant  vn  fEvnyd 

1736  Kowyd  i   ofyn  feir  Twrh  gann  Edwart    ap  Roesser   liff- 
tenant  maelor  a  dwc  arvav  Elidr  ap  Rrs  SAis     [52] 

bwy  val  iynn  heb  ofal  Iv i 

Yn  Riwabon  awr  hebod 

176   Title,  arms,  and  lines  11-23  are  torn  off 

Trwm  i  veird  yw  tramwy  i  von k 

vfvdd  oedd  nefoedd  iddaw 

178  Marwnad  am   Edwart  iwyd  o    geli  gynan  yn  Jal  a  dwc 
arvav  Sande  bard     [53] 

beth  a  dal  gwlad  groewnad  gri / 

^awn  deitl  ]  Enaid  atad 

180  Marwnad  am  El}  v}  s'   Tomas  hanmer  Gwraic  John    aer 
Konwy  a  dwc  arvav  s'  dd:  hanmer     [54] 

duw  flined  byd  aflonyd ^ 

J  Enaid  honn  yno  i  Tal 

182   Title,  arms,  lines  1-2,  and  17-26  are  torn  off 

bwrw  kav  dwrn  brie  kaderuyd  (=1.  3) « 

bid  dan  ran  bod  dvw  /  n  /  i  raid 

184  This  folio  is  wanting,  and  is  followed  by  folio  194. 

194  Kowydd  kariad  i  verch  a  daw  j  arvav  lowarch  ap  bran 

lowri  /  n  /  wir  iawn  voli  Er  n«b g 

lowri  mawr  yw  /  r  /  galar  mav  (=1.  42)#  «  *  # 


WILLIAM  KYNWAL'S   POEMS.  33 

i  85   Title,  arms,  and  lines  1-1 6  are  wanting 

arvav  Ednyfed  ai  kerfiaw  (=1.  17) a 

da  wyt  f  Enaid  atad 

187  Marwnad  am  sion  sownli  o  sownli  ymhlwyf  ymarchwiail   a 
dvc  arvav  {Cynfrig  ap  Riwallon)      [55] 

Gwae  vaelor  oi  govalon h 

ai  j  dy  ddvw  dedwydd  oedd 

.189  Marwnad  am   hvw   ap   Elis   ap   hari  o  fronn    Eirian  yn 
ysceifioc  a  dvc  arvav  (  Vdnowain) 

Troea  gynt  i  wyr  a  gad c 

am  roi  /  n  /  avr  ymronn  Eirian  (=1.  78)#  *  « 
Folios  191-193,  195-211  are  wanting  *  »  *  * 

212   Title,  arms,  and  lines  1-12  are  wanting 

Grymvsswalch  a  gair  moessen  (=1.  13) d 

oth  dai  owain  ath  dvedd 

L213&  Moliant  Jeuan  llwyd  o  Jal  yscwiar  a  ddwc  arvav   Vnyr  o 
Jal     [56] 
dvw  a  rodd  byd  a  rydd  barn     ....  c 

Ti  ai  a  honn  j  oed  hir 

2156  Marwnad  m'  rys  Tomas  yscwiar  a  ddwc  arvav  ILtwelyn 
VWTTHVS      [57] 

dwy  ryw  oes  sydd  draw  i  son f 

brevwych  Enw  barch  yw  Enaid 

;2186  Moliant  Elis  wynn  ap  John    Wynn   ap   Elissav   a  ddwc 
arvav  Ossber  ap  gwtthlacb     [58] 

Ynill  gair  Uu  ai  gwiria g 

dvw  I  V  I  ]fessv  ai  law  drossod 

■2196  Moliant  sieffrai  kyffin  o  artheryr  ymhowys  a  ddwc  arvav 
EiNION  EVBLL      [59] 

Y  karw  Ewyged  kry  Roddgar     ....  A 
heb  oes  hir  wynebvs  yw 

.2216  Moliant   m"  Edwart  herbart  Escwiair  a   ddwc   yr  arvav 
yma  o  dad  i  dad     [60] 

Y  gwr  piav  gair  powys i 

yn  lai  no  dvc  laned  wyd 

"224  Moliant  John  prys  or  dref  newydd  ynghydewain  a  ddwc 
arvav  Elystan  glodrydd     [61] 
pa  vn  vwy  pwy  /  n  /  i  vowyd     ....  k 

sad  yn  y  byd  sa  di  /  n  /  benn 

226   Title,  arms,  lines  1,  15-2^,  3g-/f§,  and  63-T2  are  wanting 

hir  vywa  kvr  vv  wac  gynt  (=1.  2) / 

wyr  0  Eys  nai  aer  y  Rawc 

■2286  Moliant  Gruff:  ap  John  Wynn  Ohenyberth  yn  llyn  a  ddwc 
arvav  Kollwyn    [62] 

Er  bod  Tai  ar  y  byd  h^wnn tn 

Teiroes  yn  vn  Tros  yn  ^aith 

2306  Marwnad  am    Wiliam   Evtyn  o   riwabon   a   ddvc   arvav 
Elidr  ap  Rys  sais     [63] 

Oer  yw  vessur  vu  assia « 

]f  aer  hael  i  dop  yr  Rod 
e    87130.  c 


34  MOSTTN  MANUSCRIPT  111. 

2326  Moliant  Ho:  ap  John  ap  Harri  o  ysceifioc  a  ddwe  arvav 
Ednowain  benndew    [64] 
Pann  sonion  am  galon  gwyr     ....  a 

howel  a  dows  haeled  ynt 

2346  Moliant  John  Wynn  ap  Wiliam  o  ddyffryn  melai  yn 
llannvair  a  ddwc  arvav  r  PENNWTNN — (3  white  boars' 
heads  on  red  ground)     [65] 

Semiwyd  yn  gymwys  vniawn b 

J  chwi  Sion  a  chwe  oes  hydd 

2366  Moliant  Edwart  llwyd  or  plas  Js  klawdd  a  ddwc  arvav 
TvDVR  Trevor    [66] 

Y  karw  megis  kwngkwerwr c 

yn  bendefig  bavn  difalch 

2386  Moliant  John  Wynn  dehaf  o  wreytyn  ymangor  a  ddwc 
arvav  Elidr  ap  Rts  Sais     [67] 

Pwy  maelor  piav  moliant d 

hwnu  aed  a  honn  j  oed  hir 

241    Title,   arms,  'and  II.  -(—44   (f^   wanting,    and  II.  56-5^  are 
imperfect. 

Meistres  Marged  a  gredir  (=  1.  45) e 

Er  bw  Traws  wr  byw  Trassyth 

2426  Moliant  John  Gvtyn  o  vodylling  [v]«  Riwahon — (Arms 
torn  off.)     [68] 

[Duw]  ordeiniodd  drvd  Enyd f 

bid  wellwell  aer  bodylling 

2446  Marwnad  John  llwyd  ap  John  ap  Wiliam  o  ysceifioc  a 
ddvc  arvav  Ednowain  benndew    [69] 

Gwelir  gwae  galar  a  gyrch g 

y  syn  llaw  dvw  Sion  Uwyd  wych 

2466  Mar:  s'  John  Salbri  o  laweni  a  ddvc  yr  arvav  vchod     [70] 

beth  a  dal  byth  adeilad A 

yngolwc  dvw  ai  ngylion 

2486  Moliant   John   gruff:  o  gaerwys  a  ddvc  arvav   Ednowain 

BENNDEW      [71] 

Tynned  pob  hardd  vardd  a  vo { 

a  bo  i  hwnn  byw  yn  hir 

2506  Moliant  hvw  ap  Sion  or  llannerch  rvgoc  a  ddvc  o  dv  i  fam 
arfav  Kynn:  AP  RlWALLON     [72] 

]f  ffydd  a  wnaeth  Jawn  vaeth  yvl k 

y  bo  yt  hap  o  bowyd  hir 

2526  Marwnad  John  aer  Konwy  o  vodryddan  a  ddvc  arvav 
Jarll  Konias    [73] 

Kwyu  hidl  gwae  bob  kenedlaeth I 

akw  Enaid  aer  konwy 

255  Mawliant  Mastr  roessier  pilstwn    yscwiair   a   ddwc    arvav 

S'  ROESSER  PILSTWN      [74] 

Twyssoc  yw  oes  vu  voessen „i 

Er  alio  beilch  Jarll  y  bych 


WILLIAM   KYNWAL'S   POEMS.  35 

257  Marwnad  Meistres  wrssle  vj,  Wiliam  gwdmon  a  ddvc  arvav 

WiLIAM   GWDMON      [75] 

blaenedau  Trwbl  anedwydd a 

yn  \  seintwer  yn  santes 

259  Moliant  hvw  gwynn  o  vodvel  a  ddwc  arvav  KoLLWYN     [76] 

Mewn  Uena  avr  mae  /  n  /  llyn  Eryr b 

Jessv  Eydd  oes  hir  vddyn 

261  Moliant  Jeuan  ap  Robert  ap  ho'  ap  gruff:  o  saethon  a  ddwc 
arvav  Rys  ap  Tewdwr 
Tr  hydd  gwar  a  haedd  gariad     ......  c 

dan  grynnv  oi  da  yn  grinion  (^1.  74)*  *  *  # 

263    This  folio,  containing  the  end  of  the  previous  and  the  beginning  of  the 
foUowing  poem,  is  wanting. 

264       nid  gwiw  mrysson  gofion  gwael  (=1.  17) d 

Trie  yn  barch  Trwy  Eigion  byd 

266  This  folio  containing  title,  arms,  and  11.  1-^0  is  wanting. 

267  wyr  ^fan  Ian  arafwych  (=1.  41) e 

yn  Roi  bavn  yn  hj  /  i  /  bonedd 

268  Mar:  i  rys  gruff:  M:  a  ddwc  yr  arvav  yma  o  dad  i  dad    [77] 

a  pla  byw  wrth  gwplhav  barn f 

s'  rys  grvffydd  sydd  yn  sant 

2706  Moliant  Mastr  Wiliam  grvff:  o  garnarvon  a   ddwc  arvav 
Edn'  vachan    [78] 

y  gwr  mal  jarll  grymiol  ]fawxi g 

doeth  lain  nod  ath  ddeil  yn  wr 

2726  Kowydd  i  ovyn  bterdd  gan  Risiart  ap  Jfan   ap  sion   ap 
heilin  a  dduc  arvav  dd  goch  ^[p]  dd 

Abram  yw  oes  obrwy  mawl h 

byrr  ddadl  y  bwrdd  ai  adwedd 

2756  y  kywydde  sydd  heb  enni  yndvnt  245,  247,  249,  251,  253, 
255,  257,  259,  261,  263,  266,  268,  271,  273. 


MS.  112.  CnvYBEu  AC  Odleu,  chiefly  by  Captain  Thomas  Price 
of  Plas  Johjn,  Denbighshire,  Indices  and  Proverbs.  Paper  ;  1\  x 
5f  inches;  812  pages.  Pages  9-465,  515-519,  552-562,  appear  to 
have  been  written  by  the  same  hand,  possibly  the  author,  prior  to  the 
31st  of  March  1631,  when  the  Indices  (pp.  573-654)  were  made. 
The  MS.  belonged  to  "  Eobert  Wynn  esquier  "  in  1639  (p.  1).  The 
following  names  are  also  found  :  «  Mr.  Hugh  Wynne  1643  "  (p.  787)  ; 
"Watkin  Kljwedog  May  the  28th  1646"  (p.  4);  "Margred  Price" 
(p.  157,  &c.);  "Wiliam  Evin  Prois"  (p.  283);  "  WilLiam  Grvfith 
1651  "  (p.  406) ;  "  David  Price  /  John  Dauies  /  John  Thomas  /  Hugh 
Williams," '1717 '(p.  571). 

2  Gwae  fi  am  geinog  &o.  Ffowlk  ap  Edward       i 

3  Oeh  trwy  i  och  oedd  orfod  imi     ..... 

Ar  na  ffrind  na  char  na  chwaer  Soh.  Vaughau   f^ 

Pages  5-8.  Index  to  the  subjects  of  pages  162-465,  515-519. 

c  2 


36  MOSTiTN   MANUSCRIPT   112. 


9       Nid  geirddwys  ond  y  gwirddvw     ...  a 

a  mynd  ir  nefoedd  amen     [1]* 

11  er  ferch  er  anerch  enyd h 

dyn  byw  oevach  dann  bared 

12  fDvw  orvcliaf  drwy  acbvvyn c 

gwiw  ddvw  in  ty  gweddiwn  y  tad     [2] 

14   Owdl  i  ddangos  beiao  y  bijd  (in  the  24  metres) 

Y  byd  aeth  yn  gaeth  lie  gwedd  drigioni     ...  d 
aeth  gwaith  or  gyriad  ath  gaeth  oer  goron 

20       Ilong  flin  mann  gerwin  mewn  goror e 

Uymrig  i  min  Uamwraig  mor 

20  K.  i  ferch  a  hevrodd  i  vhariad  i  bod  yn  vffern  /  n  /  poeni  [3] 
Mae  ynghariad  am  ynghvriaw     ....  / 

yn  ifaink  i  wlad  nefoedd 

24  Manmad    Elis    vaughan   pan    hevrwyd    i   ladd  fo    wrth 
gerdded  y  nos  j     [4] 
Trist  anap  trees  dvw  ini     .     .     .     .  g 

vuwaith  orffwysfa  yw  enaid 

29  Kowydd  i  ddau  tvr  soredig  wrth  i  gilydd  o  achos  merch     [5] 

Y  ddav  lew  iraidd  lawen A 

ych  krogi.  gan  ych  gwragedd 

33  Er  hwyrdaith  ganwaith  er  gweini     ....  » 
0  ddvw  i  hvn  ni  ddaw  bap  (see  also  p.  342) 

34  Kowydd  i  yrry  y  dyllvan  yn  genad  o  Ivndain  i  gymrv  at 

wyr  y  nos     [6] 

Y  dyllvan  drvan  drwch h 

hoff  o  ryw  a  cban  ffarwel 

39       O  daw  bvn  loewlvn  dan  bren / 

y  neb  a  fo  aniben 

6.  Kowydd  i  ofyn  .^  o  gesig  i  If  pwr     [7] 

pa  wyr  glaii  pwy  piai  /  r  /  glod     ....  m 

bynydd  i  gowydd  ai  gaink 

45  Kowydd  i  ofyn  par  o  arfav  gwnion  i  sion  llwyd  a  Jal     [8] 

Y  gwr  fytli  gorav  i  farn n 

yn  y  drin  liyd  awr  einioes 

50  Kowydd  i    ofyn  march  i    Sr   Robert  salbri   dros    Gawen 
gwdmon     [9] 

Y  gwr  sydd  a  gwas  iddaw o 

anrheithiwyd  pawb  yn  Khvthyn 

56  Kowydd  i  ofyn  tabler  i  dd:  salbri  o  Ian  Rhavadr     [10] 

Y  dewr  bael  He  doer  helynt p 

0  fawl  a  gwawd  fil  oi  gwertb 

*  The  numbers  in  square  brackets  refer  to  the  number  of  the  poem  in  Mostyn 
MS.  1. 

f  According  to  Mostyn  MS.  1  there  must  be  leaves  missing  here,  as  we  have  the 
first  line  of  a  Cywydd  and  the  last  line  of  an  Awdl.    MS.  1  reads  : 
a  Duw  Oruchaf  drwy  achwyn     ...    I  6  Gweddiwn  byddwn  cyn  bedd      .     .     . 

Diiw  fanwyl  cadw  fenaid.  |      gwiw  dduw  in  ty  gweddiwn  ein  tad  (107).^ 


CAPTAIN  THOMAS  PRICE'S  POEMS.  37 

61  K:  i  ofyn  march  i  w"  wyn  ag  i  Elis  fychan  dros  beilin  [11] 

Y  keirw  sy  fawr  i  kariad a 

tra  fo  march  mewn  trefi  maith 

65  Kowydd  i  ofyn  dager  i  sion  llwyd  o  abergele     [12] 

Y  dewr  vchaf  o  drychant ft 

rhag  mor  deg  yw  danrreg  di 

70       Garwlais  o  klowais  nid  klod c 

gwydd  gam  yn  gweddi  oi  god 

6.  Kowydd  i  ofyn  gwraig  eiddig  i  domas  glyn  tros  Risiard 
Bwhlav     [13] 

Y  karw  odiaeth  karedig ,  d 

Yn  Reisi  ar  ben  Risiart 

74  Dau  gywydd  i  eiddig  am  gvro  i  wraig  heb  achos     [14] 

Dyn  wyf  yn  aros    dan  wydd e 

fenaid  i  minav  fanwyl 

79  Pa  ryw  ddialedd  prvdd  ddolvr / 

Yn  y  tir  yn  anad  dyn     [15] 

80  K:  i  eiddig  i  ddymvno  i  fario  ar  frys  er  mwyn  i  wraig     [16] 

Dvw  na  welwn  dan  elor g 

yn  weddw  er  mwyn  ffroen  eiddig 

82  Kywyddeu   attebion    rhwng  gwr  ar  heiliog  bronfraith    am 
dori  0  eiddig  Iwyn  o  goed     [17] 

Y  bronfraith  bvr  Iwysiaith  Ian     ....  h 
kana  yn  ^ach  bellach  ir  byd 

85       Y  Haw  a  dorodd  y  llwyn i 

Yn  Uynn  am  dori  yr  glyn  glas     [18] 

87       Yn  rhydd  mae  kelwydd  o  koelir k 

ow  gwen  pair  ddoedyd  y  gwir 

b.  Kowydd  i  ofyn  kymod  i  eiddig  ag  i  roi  meichiav  na  thrwblid 
mono  fo  mwy     [  1 1 )] 

Y  gwr  anwyl  gair  ^fniawn I 

dial  y  ferch  a  dal  fo 

92       Mae  gwragedd  gwynedd  oi  genav m 

a  nad  golli  i  aneidiav 

6,  Kowydd    i  anfon  y  wenol  yn  genad  or  werddon  i  gymrv 
at  I  i  j  feistres     [20] 

Y  wenol  deg  anwyl  don n 

brysia  yn  Uonn  ir  werddon  wyllt 

96  Kowydd  i  yrry  j  r  j  wylan  yn  genad  at  y  gariad     [21] 

Yr  wylan  deg  ar  Ian  dol o 

briw  seliad  brysia  eilwaith 

lOO  Kowydd  y  yrry  y  heiliog  mwyalch  yn  llattai     [22] 

Y  fwyalchan  dan  fylchoed p 

gyw  dv  doeth  ath  gadwo  di 

103  Kowydd  i  yrry  y  Bioden  yn  llattai  at  wraig  eiddig     [23] 

Y  bioden  freithwen  fronn q 

a  gwen  heb  ddiolch  yw  gwr 


38  ••     MOSTYN    MAWTTSCaiPT   112.  ^ 

107  Kowydd  i  yrry  y    glotnen   yn  llattai  at  Jerch    am   dorri 
or  gwr  hwyntmant,  ag  atteb  y  glomen     [24]     • 

Y  glomen  mewn  glaswea  glog     ....  o 
oni  ddelo  y  nydd  eilwaith 

112  Kowydd  i  yrry  y  chwanen  yn  genad  at  ferch  Ian     [25] 

Y  chwaiieu  bach  vnion  bvr     ....  b 
er  vn  mab  y  gwr  an  medd 

1 1 6  Kowydd  merch  a  llawer  o  henwav  merched  arno     [26] 

Kvr  tost  a  fydd  kariad  dyn c 

henwch  a  chymrwch  i  chwi 

117  Kowydd  i  ddangos  y  gwir  am  ferched     [27] 

Y  gwr  fyth  a  garo  ferch d 

gair  cm  pen  ar  wen  yn  wir 

120  Kowydd  i  ddangos  mar  ffol  oedd  gwr  yn   ifank  pan  roe 
bleser  i  ferch     [28] 

Anap  oedd  na  wypai  wr e 

byddwn  hyd  i  gwn  yn  gall 

124  Kowydd  i  ferch  ni  charav  ivr     [29] 

Oes  heddiw  yn  fyw  a  fydd     ....  / 

syrr  dvw  a  siwr  i  dial 

127  Kowydd  i  ddangos  twrfneirwydd  gwr  wrth  garv  merch     [30] 
Mae  fychwyn  am  fy  fechyd     ....  g 

fo  wyr  mair  ddryked  f o  /  r  /  modd 

129  Kowydd  i  ganmol  merch  oi  choryn   hyd  i  sowdwl,  ond  y  lie 
dirgel     [31] 

Y  fvn  aravl  fain  irwen     ....  h 
heb  ddial  na  byw  ddwyawr 

132  Kowydd  attebion  rhwng  gwr  a  merch     [32] 

Dydd  da  vt  ferch  feinserch  fodd     ....  i 

ag  och  nad  aethyt  yn  gynt 

135  Kowydd  merch  anodd  i  dallt     [33] 

A  ddaw  iownles  ddi  anlwk     ....  k 

addaw  a  deed  ym  a  ddel 

137  Kerais  Miwferch  kwrs  vfvdd     ....  I 
i  glaned  ar  i  gliniav     [34] 

138  Kerais  ferch  draw  kroes  a  fydd  ...  m 
ni  all  merch  ynill  y  modd     [35] 

141       Kerais  feinir  kwrs  fanap     ....  n 

ni  feddv  dvw  vfvdd  dad     [36] 

145  \_Dau  englyn  by  kuw  llwyd  o  gynddel  (in  same  hand  as  the  rest) 

arf  vnion  hylaw  arf  fanwydd    ....  0 

a  dvT  yw  hon  a  dyrr  hydd] 

146  K:  i  ferch  am  rot  gwrach  i  wr  ddvw  klanmai  y  bore     [37] 

Ychwynaf  mae  trachineb     ....  p 

Yn  y  man  a  ran  reinallt 

149  Kowydd  i  sion  salbri  o  Ian  rwst  ag  yw  ferch  lowri     [38] 

Pwy  ywr  gwr  mewn  pvr  gariad     ....  q 

llawn  raid  pvr  weddi  Uanrwst 


CAPTAIN  THOMAS,  PEICE'S  POEMS.  39. 

153  Kowydd  i  ddangos  fal  i  siomed  guor  am  i  arian  pan  aethfo 
i  dre  Ivndain  gyntaf,  rhwng^  harv  merched  a  chwarav 
disiav     [39] 
Hwylys  wr  heliais  arian     ....  a 

yn  odrist  mi  a  ddown  adref 

156  Gwiliwch  gweii  seren  er  sirio     ....  6 
gwiliwch  bawb  gwehvch  y  byd 

KoiByddeu  dychymig 

157  Arglwyddes  ffraetli  gynes  fFri     ....  c 
ihwydda  modd  y  rhodd  imi     [40] 

h.      Kefais  gan  ferch  draserch  drai     ....  d 

Yn  ddidwyll  fyth  na  ddoedwnn     [41] 

158  Kowydd  i  ferch  aethav  ynfvd  wrth  i  chariad     [42] 

Gwae  le  mab  a  goelio  merch     ....  e 

ar  ryw  dymor  i  domas 

162  Kowydd  a  ddymvnodd  merch  i  gael  hebfod  rheswm  yn  y  byd 
yntho     [43] 
Kynes  ddvll  draw  kenais  ddadl     ....  / 

keiliog  y  Uidiog  mewn  Uwybr 

165  Kowydd  i  yrry  y  llymyslen  yn  genad  at  ferch     [44] 

Y  Uymysten  freithwen  frig     ....  g 
y  dolwyn  dyred  eilwaith 

169  K:  i  yrry  y  gleisiad  yn  genad  oddiar  y  mar  i  gymrv  j    [45] 

Y  gleisiad  hynod  gloewsyth     ....  h 
Jesv  deg  ath  groeso  di 

174      Rownllaes  sein  hoewlaes  sy  /  n  /  holi i 

Eownllaes  aeth  ir  inaes  a  mi 

b.  Koxoydd  i  ddangos  mar  ffyddlon  oedd  dav  gydymaith  yw 
gilydd     [46] 

Deyaaisiws  dyn  oeswyllt h 

i  bath  yn  vn  lie  yn  byw 

178  Kowydd  i  ferch  a  beriododd  wr  chiverw     [47] 

ffarwel  f vn  hoff  reiol  faetli I 

trwy  ddvTv  er  torri  addewid 

183   Gras :  Kerais  ganwaith  kwrs  gwnias m 

o  fewn  i  rwyd  e  fynn  ras     [48] 

185   Owdl  gadarn  i  Elis  vychan     [109] 

Pa  emprwr  milwr  molan n 

nag  emprvrr  a  milwr  yn  lie  /  r  /  ymaelon 

190  Haws  yn  gv  ffynnv  hoff  yna o 

haws  myn  dvw  byw  /  n  /  hwsmon  da 

191  Kowydd  merch  a  rwystrodd  vn  yw  chariad  i  chael     [49] 

O  ddvw  /  n  /  rhad  oedd  anrhydedd p 

gwna  vn  oed  i  ganv  /  n  /  -fach 

194       Y  fvn  iraidd  fwyn  araf q 

na  diwedd  foes  na  dydd  farn 

196  Kowydd  i  ferch  a  dorrodd  bwyntmant     [50] 

Arcs  i  rwyf  mewn  oerwynt r 

i  wlad  dvw  a  wnelo  twyll 


40  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT  112. 

199  Kowydd  ir  dryw  i  anerch  gwyr  o  lundain     [51] 

Y  dryw  bach  ar  dorr  y  berth «P 

yn  ddidrwat  newydd  adref 

204  Owdlfrvd    [110] 

Brevddwydiais  gwelais  fod  galar & 

gwae  ni  fry,  ddoedyd  yn  gwau  frevddwydioQ 

208  Kowydd  ir  gog     [52] 

Och  ddvw  enyd  och  ddynion     ....  c- 

y  gog  na  ddoethe  yn  gynt 

211  Koivydd  i  ojyn  hleddav     [53] 

Pa  wr  yw  law  piav  /  r  /  wlad  .  d 

o  giod  raewn  deg  o  wledydd 

215  Kowydd  marwnad  am  Risiard  miltwn 

Trist  yw  fyth  troes  dvw  i  far     .     .  .     .  » 

a  rhoi  nef  ir  Rain  a  aeth 

Dav  gowydd  atteb  i  gerdd  Rys  wyn  up  Carfwalarfr     [54] 
221       Rhyfeddod  mewn  rhyw  foddion     ....  / 

hynny  sydd  o  fiewn  i  sach 

224       Treigliais  a  rhodiais  ar  hyd g 

ni  i  affaith  tin  vffern     [55] 

229  Kowydd  marwnad  yw  gariad  a  fv  farw     [56] 

Dvw  oes  arwydd  dy  sori     ...  A 

ond  hir  i  mae  yn  tariaw 

230  er  ferch  er  anerch  er  enyd     ...  t 
ni  fyna  fod  gen  fenaid 

234  Dychan  am  na  roddid  Meddav  am  gowydd,  i  Sr  John  wyn  [57] 

Kanes  gerdd  kyfies  i  gant h 

kyd  a  chlod  hynod  i  hael 

237  Kowydd  i  ofyn  telyn     [58] 

Y  Hew  iraidd  kellweirwych  ....  f 
wych  fawr  ran  a  cliyfrinach 

241  Pvr  ^as  am  peri  y  serch  yw  trysor m 

pwy  ydywr  fam  paid  ar  ferch 

242  Peri  y  serch  pvr  ^as  am  yw  trysor     ....  n 
paid  ar  ferch  pwj'  ydyw  r  fam 

b.  Kowydd  i  ofyn  Meddav  i  Sion  lloyd  o  bergelav     [5&] 

Y  Rhowiogwalch  mewn  rhagor o 

i  gledd  ag  i  sion  y  glod 

246  Kowydd  i  yrry  yr  Eryr  at  brydyddion  i  neges     [60] 

Yr  Eryr  is  yr  yri p 

Dilwyddiant  i  del  eiddig 

250  Henwav  y  naw  Konquerwr 

Arthvr  Sio.sswy,.  bvr  Siarls,  bydd,     ....  n- 

difai  Hector  a  Dafydd 

251  Kowydd  kyuiod  dros  kadwaladr  y  Mystie     [61] 

Y  Hew  kyfion  lie  i  kofir y. 

^  berthyn  i  chwi  /  n  /  borthawr  ' 


CAPTAIN  THOMAS   PRICE'S  POEMS.  41 

254  Kowydd  i  ofyn  Itwch     [62] 

Y  trowyv  glan  troe  wir  glod     ....  a 

wrth  yn  bodd  ir  aeth  yn  byd 

258  Kowydd  dychan  i  Edtnwnd  Prys  ag  i  rai  or  prydyddion  a 
gymerodd  bartti  eiddig  ar  i  herddi     [63] 

Ryfedd  yw  /  r  /  byd  He  Kwyfynt b 

a  gladdo  gwegil  eiddig 

263       Bywoliaeth  helaeth  bid  haws e 

yn  feddwon  ddigon  y  ddav 

263    [Kowydd  atteb  by  Edmwnd  Prys     [64] 

Tomas  wnias  awenvrerdd d 

dwys  Jawn  wj-d  a  dos  yn  ^ach] 

268  Kowydd  i  gydymaith  ffals     [65] 

Mae  Brvsou  gyfion  oedd  gall c 

Ha  fab  am  hariad  hefyd 

272  Kowydd  i  ofyn  in.  kasseg     [66] 

T  trowyr  natvr  ^evaink f" 

yng  hymrv  yn  /  Regv  ai  Roes 

276  Kowydd  i  ofyn  march  dros  Jevan  lloyd  Sieffray     [67] 

Y  marcliog  enwog  vniawn     ....  g 
yn  vffern  i  mynn  ofSs 

280       ni  cheisia  traetha  mewn  trais h 

chware  £Ewl  a  chwr  i  ffais 

b.  Kowydd  i  eiddig     [68] 

Dydd  da  yd  gog  leisiog  laswyeh i 

a  thaer  drik  a  thorri  i  drwyn 

285  K:  I  i  j  yrry  y  llamhidydd  yn  genad  at  Pirs  Grvffyth     [69] 

Y  llamhidydd  llym  hoewdeg     ....  k 
ras  iddo  ymado  ar  mor 

289       Pwy  a  mofyn  gwyn  yn  gall / 

a  dv  yw  gwyn  o  daw  gwall 

b,  K:  i  ddangos  hildring  afv  ar  wr  pan  oedd  ar  y  mor     [70] 

Dylynais  diwael  enyd m 

bei  a  shipp  ^1  bie  shepart  [buy  a  ship  I'll  be  sheph  erd] 

293  Kowydd  kymod  {i  dd :  aer  pirs  o  swydd  ddimbyck)      [71] 

Y  Hew  mawr  llym  /  i  /  wryd n, 

ar  eiddoch  i  roi  /  i  /  weddi 

297  Elin  ai  gylfin  /  o'  gwaed o 

hi  a  dynn  i  thrwyn  dan  i  thraed 

298  Kowydd  i  ofyn  kleddav     [72] 

Y  karw  de-wr  fal  kawr  a  dwrn     ....  p. 
Hydol  yw  hwii  kawn  hoedl  hir      \ 

302  Kowydd  i  ofyn  bad  hir  o  spayn     [73] 

Yr  Eryr  dewr  ar  wyr  dig q 

dra  fo  bad  wrth  dref  a  bank 

306  Kowydd  i  ofyn  dav  bvstol     [74] 

Y  Sawdiwr  dwys  dewr  i  don     ....  r 
na  ddel  drwg  ni  ddial  draw 


42  MOSTYN  •MAJSruSC!RIl'T.112; 

3U       Yn  ol  gwyr  gwrol  /  i  /  gyd    -i- . .    ....  ,,     >  .-.y  a 

fyth  ja  byw  gann  fethv ,/  u  /  byd 

b.  Kowydd  i  ofyn  karw  dof    [75] 

Y  gwraidd  walch  a  gerir 6 

ladd  kant  o  hiliant  /  i  /  hwnn 

315       er  rhyfel  vchel  er  achwyn c 

yma  ddydd  ini  ymddiddau 

315  Kowydd  i  yrry  y  kyffylog  at  Mrs  groffydd     [76] 

Y  kyw  ir  brych  akw  or  bryn d 

heb  grogi  na  boddi  byth 

319  Kowydd  dy chart  i  Thomas  Hanmer  ag  i  Rys  Kain     [77] 

Ymkanv  i  mae  kynen e 

ar  frys  i  kair  ferr  Eys  Kain 

324       Er  pan  adwen  ail  deiana f 

ni  alia  i  mwy  ynill  merch 

325   Atteb  by  Rys  Kain     [78] 

Vn  gwr  enwog  a  evrir g 

llai  /  r  /  bayoh  -wellhav  /  r  /  bvchedd 

331       Mae  math  ar  ryw  gath  yn  gethrin h 

wych  wrthiav  a  wna  cbwerthin 

6.       Hai  bladvr  a  dvr  /  i  /  dorri i 

OS  yw  yn  fadws  yn  fedi 

c.  Atteb  i  gowydd  Rys  Kain     [79] 

Barvs  ]fawn  brav  i  soniwn ft 

OS  hen  mae  yn  ddrwg  /  i  /  synwyr 

335   Kowydd  i  yrry  j  y  /  bi  yn  gennad  by  Hvw  Robert     [80] 

Y  bi  edn  y  gwybodaeth j 

ooh  ym  edn  o  chymodir 

338  Kowydd  atteb  ir  bioden     [81] 

Yr  edn  mwyn  iawn  i  rodiad m 

chwerw  margen  fy  chwaer  marged 

343  Marwnad  Sr.  John  llwyd  o  Jal     [82] 

Och  och  been  vwch  vwch  bevnydd f^ 

yn  ^ach  wyr  byw  och  or  byd 

348  Marwnad  Thomas  glynn     [83] 

Och  ddydd  farn  och  ddiwedd  foes '    o 

fachwyn  aeth  i  nef  vchod 

354  Owdl  Marwnad  John  Grvffyth     [111] 

Dydd  brawd  am  y  mrawd  mae  ymronn p 

dyddbrawd  or  dyrnawd  a  roed  amaf 

358       Y  gwr  a  welir  yn  gorndyn g 

wr  traws  i  ffair  tros  y  fforth 

369  Marwnad  llawer  o  gymdeithimi  da     [84] 

Gwae  a  rydd  nid  gwreiddiach r 

yn  i  plith  yn  vn  oi  plaid 

363  Kowydd  gwr  wedi  passip     [85] 

Y  byd  kaeth  heb  wadv  kwyn 

hyny  a  geifi  i  henaid 


CAPTAIN   THOMAS  PEICE'S  POEMS.  '43 

365  er  pann  adwen  wenn  ail  anna '    '  '^     a 

hyn  a  wyr  dvw  baner  da 

366  Kowydd  i  ofyn  kessig     [86] 

Yn  fwyna  /  i  /  gair  e  fv  gynt '        b 

ar  oror  daun  wryrv 

370  Marwnad  Elis  Prys     [87] 

Torwyd  om  perllan  taerwaeth c 

i  lys  y  nefol  ifesv 

375       Nid  oes  am  /  r  /  oes  ymryson  /  a  dvw  /.....         d 
y  gwallys  klwyfys  ar  klat' 

b.  Kowydd  i  ddiolch  am  ewig  ddof  i   S'  John  Konvoy     [88] 

Y  marchog  gwych  mowrwych  kail e 

dra  fo  hydd  ar  fynydd  fyth 

379  Kowydd  /  i  I  yry  gog  at  owen  fychan 

Dydd  da  yd  y  gog  ar  glog  Iwyd     ....  / 

a  newydd  yw  hen  ewythr 

382       Gyrr  am  hvw  er  dvw  wr  dig g 

ynghoch[l]  oedd  ynghylch  eiddig 

b.  Kowydd  i  ofyn  milgi     [89]  ■  ' 

Y  Hew  kynes  He  i  kanwyd A 

o  gerdd  fry  a  bery  byth 

387  Kowydd  i  ofyn  gown     [90] 

Y  llew  a  grym  oil  a  gwraidd i 

am  y  gown  yma  a  ganwyd 

391  Y  fvn  a  giriodd  fwyneb k 

dowch  dowch  chycbwi  ai  dichon 

392  Marwnad  Hanibol  Prys     [91] 

Beth  a  wnawn  byth  ^awn  enyd -i       / 

dvw  da  a  eill  doed  i  wllys 

395  K:  iddangos  fod  oed  dyn  fal  pedwar  amser  y  flwyddyn   [92] 

Medrais  fynych  ymadrodd     ......  m 

i  oleini  i  mi  a  men 

398  Kowydd  i  yry  /  r  /  eos  yn  genad  i  gymrv  o  Ivndain     [93] 

Yr  eos  fwyn  aeres  falch n 

dvw  maddav  bob  dim  vddynn 

403  Mae  /  n  /  wirion  y  fronn  o  fryd     ......  '       o 

am  hen  gast  mae  hynn  i  gyd 

404  dvw  dad  a  cheidwad  ar  ychydig p 

anudon  yn  anwedig 

b.  Kowydd  i  yrry  y  llygoden  i  gymrv  yn  genad  o  Ivndain  [94] 

Y  llygoden  llygadwyllt ■  q 

i  Ivndain  ar  dy  lowndvth 

410  Kowydd  ir  angav     [95] 

Blin  yw  r  byd  mal  blaenawr  bach r 

a  bery  byth  bvra  byd 

415  Kowydd  i  ddangos  mae  vfferti  yw  llvndain     [96] 

Mal  i  mae  nef  loewdref  Iwys « 

tan  gwyllt  fo  tani  i  gyd 


44  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   112. 

419  Kowydd  i  ofyn  march  dros  Thomas  vychan     [97] 

Y  ddevgar  foneddigaidd o 

av  ffwl  i  ffernvU  i  ffy  Thomas  Prys 

4:15       tachwedd  a  Ragfyr  byrr  ar  big h 

gwael  vwch  fydd  gwiliwch  feddig 

425  Kowydd  i  yrry  r  /  scyfarnog  yn  genad  at  helwyr     [98] 

Y  bryfes  gynes  geiuach e 

Oes  batten  t  ir  ysp[y]tty 

428  Beth  a  ddaw  llidiaw  nid  lies,     ....  d 
ai  swyddog  difiog  ar  des 

b.  Kowydd  i  ddyfalv  /  r  /  spectakl 

Mae  /  r  /  ifaink  a  mawr  afiaeth e 

Eagor  Ewng  y  mor  ar  maes  / 

429  Kowydd  trafferth  y  hyd  ar  gyfraith     [99] 

Anifir  mewn  ifawn  ofyn f 

nag  offis  mwy  nag  i  vffern 

434  Kowydd  i  ofyn  elyrch     [100] 

Y  mon  mae  iviriou   mowrwysg jr 

i  blavo  mon  am  blv  mwy 

441    Owdl  ddychan  dibiti  syryddion     [112] 

Krach  swyddog  wr  Hog  ar  llais  anfwynaidd     .  .     .        h 

£Eei  jddew  o  gred  mor  ffiaidd  i  grach 

446  Kowydd  i  ofyn  Ueddav     [101] 

Hawdd  ^awn  nis  haddav  anael » 

i  oes  ar  dwyn  er  i  fwyn  fo  / 

450  Kowydd  i  ofyn  tarw     [102] 

Y  gwr  doeth  gowira  dyn  ....  k 
/  i  /  byrhav  ir  neb  ai  rhoes 

454  Yn  ol  kael  gafael  yn  gyfan  /  a  thi I 

fenaid  oil  i  fynd  allan 

455  Kyngor  yw  fab  Sion     [103] 

Hen  ydwyf  ym  penodav m 

doro  happ  i  bob  dewr  hael  / 

460  Marwnad  JPirs  grvffydd  or  penrhyn     [104] 

Y  byd  hen  kyn  gwybod  hav  / « 

oleini  yw  hael  wyneb 

465  Yrwy  yma  yn  herwa  /  yn  hwyr  a  borav o 

dyw  dvw  gwynn  dydi  ai  gwyr 

466  Marwnad  William  Wynn  o  llanfair  1632     [105] 

Pa  ddyn  heb  weiddi  o  anap p 

drigaredd  ir  dewr  gwrawl 


Pages  471-4.  Blank. 

475  Marwnad  Mr.  wiliam  wynn  or  Ty  gwynn  yn  K,an  lleehid 

Troes  duw  waiwloes  trist  alar g 

att  rwysg  ar  blant  ar  i  ol  Watkin  Klywedog 

Marwnaden  Rob:  Wynne  o  Fodyscallan  l6gi 

485       Ond  servyll  nod  ias  oerfel ^ 

geirwir  sy  /  n  /  j  drugaredd  '  John  dauies 


POEMS  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  45 

493       Wele  dydd  wylo  a  ddaeth a 

Hylaw  ras  i  law  r  ^esu 

500  fforget  not  any  good  tura  dune  b 
and  help  thy  neghbiours  need 

501  Marwnad  Rowland  Vaughan  o  gaer-gai  166J  ' 

Twll  ywr  dydd  sy  wyll  oei'  dii c 

llywydd  gofodiad  Uawen        Rees  TV""  alias  Constable  Coch 

508       Treth  haf  treth  auiaf  treth  od d 

ein  pain  lion  an  pen  Uowydd 
Pages  511-4.     Blank. 

515  Marwnad  ir  ail  to  or  kymdeithion  da 

wyf  dan  glwyd  o  gronglwyd  grin     ....  e 

ag  yn  bennwyn  gwfl  boeni 

er  hynn  ni  fynn  angav  fi  Thomas  Prys 

Dwy  farwnad  i  AP  Thomas  P[»'y*]  o  bias  Jolyn  1634 

521       Mawr  fraw  aeth  yn  biraethawg f 

ai  alw  i  fyw  ir  ail  fyd  Hvw  Machno 

b11       Och  hireth  am  awen  addysc g 

nawdd  rinwedd  a  nef  ir  enaid  Edward  Prys 

Pages  533-45.     Blank. 

546  Englyn  anfonwyd  i  Thomas  lloyd 

Thomas  gyweithas  wiw  ^feithydd h 

Wedd  hynod  dy  ddihoeni  Jno.  Vaughan  Esqr. 

547  Ateb  :  Nid  haeddawl  im  fawl  am  fed     ....  i 

A  drylliaf  ei  hwyan  drewUyd  Jhon  Price 

549    Tribaneu :  Wrth  droi  n  ol  a  syn  ystyrio  ....  k 

Pair  imi  ,gael  r  a.  fynwes  Escob  bangor 

552  Dyn  glan  i  ymddidan,  yw  ddydd,  yn  araf     ....  I 
yw  th)^b  i  llaeth  heb  i  Uo                                 Thomas  Prys 

b.      Achwyn  rhag  achwyn  yn  goeth,  yw  ochel     ....         m 
eisie  bwyd  yn  sFwbodia  Gruffydd  Peylynn 

553  Bvm  gan  wen  seren  is  irwydd  bron     ....  n 
wj'th  waith  or  naw  waith  yn  ol                     Robin  Thomas 


Englynion  by  Thomas  Pets. 

553  Er  dy  loes  ar  groes  gwir  ')esv  gyfion  &c.  o 

554  Eys  a  folaiit  at  Eys  Kain p 

am  sy  wir  y  messvrav 

b.  Arthvr  sioswy  &c.  {see  p.  40  g,  above).  q 

c.  Heb  wedd  mae  /  n  /  rhyfeddod  na  theli  &c.  r 

555  Wrth  fabilon  afon  ddinwyfav  isod     .....  s 
ol  yn  ol  yn  tylynav 

b.  J  S'  jf""  Conwy  pan  yn  glaf  oi  olwg 

wrth  gofio  etto  wrth  atteb  ir  hael t 

ar  saint  mor  niwaid  ar  Sion 


46  MOSTTN  MANUSCRIPT   112. 

556  (Eecipes  to  bind  broken  glass  and  stones.) 

h.      er  achwjn  er  kwyn  er  kynig  ami a 

jm  rodio  tyno  or  tir 

557  Mil  chwechant  gwarant  oed  ner  gwyn      .     .     .     .     •  6 
pyr  waed  hen  y  pryd  hyny 

6.      dy  geraint  ai  braint  mewn  bri  gwen  anwyl     ....        c 
na  rhodio  llwdlo  yn  Uynn 

558  [Eobart  salsbri  ffri  yn  ffres d 

o  deil  a  chnwp  dalv  ioh  nai  Jon  Mowddwy] 

559  fal  kynydd  mewn  gwydd  yn  gwav e 

mor  digio  er  llithro  r  Hank 

560  Bhoi  possel  ir  drel  oer  drem  &c.  / 
b.   Ynglynion  ymryson  rhwng   M'  Firs  gr:*  a   Mr.    T.  Prys 

ymhlvmwth  ynghylch  y  mor 
kefaist  ras  ddyraa  ddirad  /  a  ifortyn     ....  g 

oer  yw  mynd  Eyd  eira  man 
oerach  yw  mynd  heb  arian     .... 
hwre  drwsio  hir  draserch 

562       Wrth  geisio  devdro  mewn  didrap     ....  h 

gwiliwch  bawb  gwelwch  y  byd 

564  Marwnad  sion  wyn  ab   Wiliam  l62g 

Gwrendewch  alaith  wylo 

yno  i  orfEwys  o  fewn  arch  Edward  Prys 

Pages  569-71.  Partly  blank  and  partly  scribbled  over. 

572       Kyn  del  rhyfel  daw  rhyfeddod  or  mor     ....  k 

yn  y  tir  mogelwch  y  tan  Robin  ddv 

b.      Balchder  o  hyder  i  hvdo  /  salfab     ....  I 

yn  i  stad  fawn  stidier  Robin  ddv 


Paet  II. — paper  slightly  shorter. 

Page  573.  Tabl  llyfyr  howydde  o  waith  m'  Thomas  Prys  o 
Blasiolyn,  i.e.,  pages  575-581  =  Index  to  the  subjects  of  the  poems  in 
this  MS. 

Pages  585-597.  Tahl  llyfyr  howydde  a  gefes  j  i  j  n  y  Berthddv, 
which  now  forms  Mostyn  MS.  148,  pages  1-738. 

Page  601.  Dyma  dabl  llyfyr  a  raned  yn  dri  llyfyr  ag  yn  dec/ire 
y  kyntaf  gan  roi  kifri  or  dalenne  ag  or  howydde  j  Mawrth  xxxi  : 
l631,  viz.  ; — 

Pages  601-603.   F  llyfyr  hyntaf= 

Pages  609-617.    Yr  ail  llyfyr =M.ostjD.  MS.  161,  pages  1-434. 

Pages  623-625.  Ytrydydd  llyfyr=Mostyn  MS.  161,  pp.  513-683. 

Pages  631-644.  Dyma  dabl  llyfyr  howydde  sydd  a  chayad  gantho 
o  barsmant  gwyn  : — 

Begins  :  Kowydd  i  dduw  o  waith  doctor  Sion  Kemp 

Ends :  Kowydd  arall  i  Eys  ap  Mredydd  o  waith  Theodor  Alet 

*  There  is  nothing  bearing  this  signature  in  the  MS. 


ARMS  AND   PEDIGREES.  47 

Pages  651-654.  llyma  dahl  o  gowydde  y  doctor  Sion  Kemp  ar  y 
sydd  y  llyfr  ar  kaead  partsmant  Gwyn. 

1  prydv  a  wna  mwva  mawl  &c.  a 

2  Tri  oedran  hovwlan  helynt  &c.  b 

3  Och  gymrv  fynych  gamfraint  &c.  c 

4  Y  gwr  ywch  ben  gorywch  byd  &c.  d 

5  Digam  i  gwnaeth  dvw  gymwyll  &c.  e 

6  fymliwrs  melfed  fy  mherson  &c.  f 

7  Ryfedd  ywr  byd  rhywfodd  beth  &c.  gr 

8  Uyma  fyd  llawn  i  fedydd  &c.  k 

9  Ystydio  yddwyf  was  didwyll  &c.  i 

10  Uyma  /  r  /  hael  lie  mae  rhaid  &c.  k 

11  Tydi  ddyn  tew  dy  ddoniav  &c.  t 

12  Ef  piav  r  byd  kyd  kydnerth  &c.  m 

13  Gwyn  i  fyd  er  gwyufydv  &c.  n 

14  Yr  vn  bai  er  yn  bowyd  &c.  o 

15  Kamair  hv  kam  yw  Rwol  &c.  p 

16  llyma  fyd  hyd  i  mae  havl  &c.  g 

17  Blin  y  trailed  Eod  ar  hwn  &c.  r 

Pages  789-811.  An  incomplete  copy  of  Griffith  Hiraethog's  Collec- 
tion of  Welsh  Proverbs  with  a  dedication  to  Richard  Mostyn :  Att 
vcbelder  diledryw  foneddigeiddrwydd  brytanaidd  Mr.  Eissiart  Mostyn 
Gruff.  Hiraethoc  yn  damvno  eiddvno  ae  ewyllyssio  birhoedl  ac  vrddas 
&c.     .     .     .     The  copy  ends  :  dod  fenthig  i  noeth  nis  kai  dranoeth  / 

Blank  pages=47l-4,  509-14,  533-45,  569-70,  574,  582-4,  598- 
600,  604-8,  618-22,  626-30,  646-50,  655-786,  and  812. 


MS.  113.  Coats  of  Arms  and  Pedigrees  in  Welsh  and  English. 
Paper;  7|  x  5|  inches;  318  pages;  well  bound  in  Russia  leather;  the 
margins  of  the  top  outer  corners  are  injured.  "  This  booke  seemeth  tO' 
have  beene  compyled  aboute  the  yeere  of  o"^  Lorde  .  1572."  (p.  177),  and 
is  apparently  in  the  hand  of  Sir  Tho'  Wiliems.  See  also  the  entry  on 
page  161.  It  has  the  name  "  William  Williams  booke  /  72  /  "  on  p.  1  j 
and  "  Richard  Euance  "  vel.  "  Evannce  "  on  p.  84,  &c. 

Page  1.  Coats  of  Arms :  Lyuelyn  aurdorchaue  a  due  arian  leu  passant 
uyneb  gyfan  o  aur  ai  arveu  or  gouls  ai  gynphon  druy  ei  afl  tros  ei  gefn 
tu  ai  din.  /  &c. :  ends  with  the  arms  of  "  Syr  Wiliam  of  Pool." 

Page  9.  Mam  Tvdyr  Trefor  oedd  Ehieingar  V3  kriadog  freichfraisk 
^arll  henffordd  &c. 

b.  Arthur  a  ddoeth  ir  goron  a  thyrnasy  yn  oedran  15  mlwydd  Anno- 
D'ni  490  ag  a  wladychodd  deuddeg  mlynedd  a  deigen. 

c.  Arthurus  regnavit  26  annos  ab  anno  516.  Vide  Ro.  Casnalensi 
lib  2.     Per.  2.     Ed.  Pouel. 

Page  10.  The  Coate  of  armes  of  Richard  Evans  of  Denbigh  &c. 
Page  11.  The  Pedigree  of  „  „  „ 

Page  13.  The  pedigree  of  Robert  Wynn  of  Kessalgyfarch  (Car- 
narvonshire). 


"48  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   113. 

Page  19.  DosBARTH  arueu.  being  a  treatise  on  the  origin  and  utility 
of  COATS  OF  ARMS,  US  ivell  OS  On  the  signification  of  colours,  birds, 
quadricpeds,  Sfc,  usually  quartered  therein.  Megis  y  darparuyd  ynn 
yr  oes  gyntaf  or  byd  vod  henuaii  ar  dynion  val  i  gelit  urth  hynny  i 
haduabod  :  a  phaub  vely  ynn  yr  oessoed  erail  guedi  diliu  pan  amlhaod  y 
bobyl  ar  y  dayar  a  chyfodi  terfysc  a  rhyfeloed  ym  plitli  yr  ordeiniuyt 
i  Ryfeluyr  a  guyr  maur  guedi  ymdyrchafel  meun  rhagor  o  anrhyded 
ac  vrdas  aruydion  am  arvaii  yn  duyn  megis  y  gelit  i  hadnabod  huynt  ai 
etifedion  rhac  lau  &c. 

Page  38.  Gan  darvod  traethii  am  aruydion  byuiol  meun  arfaii  belach 
i  mae  traethii  am  aruydion  maraolion.     Ac.  or  rheini   yrdassaf  aruyd 

yu  Croes Ac  or  aruyd  hunn  y  guedai  traethii  ynn  gyntaf  or 

deudec  amrafael  gruys  a  gair  meun  arfaii  &c. 

Page  42.  Arfaii  a  Tharianaii :  Mae  rhai  yn  duyn  i  harfaii  yn 
chuarteroc  lyfn  o  amravaelion  liuiau  &c. 

Page  49.  Belach  i  mae  traethii  am  labelaii  meun  arfaii  y  rhai  a  roir 
1  frodyr  ioyaf  i  duyn  diphrens  &c. 

Page  55.  Lyma  arfaii  Briittanieid  o  Ynys  Brydain :  Briittiis  ef  a 
■diic  aiir  Leu  gouls  passaunt  neii  sinobl.  &c. 

Page  60.  Arufs  pendefigion  o  lau  W.  Salisburi  from  due  f  osue  vab 
JNun  to  Cadualadr  Vendigaid  and  afterwards  as  follows :  Giiyned,  Grr, 
ap  Kynan  ;  Deheubarth,  Ehes  ap  Theodor  ;  Powys,  Bledyn  ap  Cynfyn 
Morganuc,  Criadoc  ap  festyn;  Rhung  Guy  a  Hafren,  Elystan  Glodryd 
Tegengil,  Vchdrud  ap  Eduin  &  Eden  ouein  Bendeu ;  Suyd  Dinbech^ 
Marchudj  Breint  hir,  &  Hed  ap  Moluynoc ;  Tir  Mon,  Louarch  ap  Bran 
><&  Hufa  ap  Cyndelu.  Arfe — Mad.  ap  L'n,  Mad.  ap  Mered',  Ken.  ap 
Riualon,  Ouain  Cyueilioc,  Syr  Houel  ap  Gr.,  Eobt.  ap  Mered',  Rhirit 
Vlaid,  Ynyr  o  'Jal,  yr  hen  Phuc  ap  Guaruic,  Gueryd  ap  Rhys  Goch,  L'n 
ap  ]fer.  druyndun,  Sir  Roger  Puleston,  yr  Hanmers,  Cradoc  Hard, 
Corineus,  Kuhelyn  o  Vochnant,  Einion  ap  Gualchmai,  Louarch  Goch, 

W"  Bastard,  Harri  vap  yr  Emerodres,  Hed  Moluynauc,  Dyfnual 

Eigion  ap  Geraint,  W™  Buclei,  Rhirid  Vlaid  luytb  Penlyn,  ^ardur 
Juyth  y  LecLued,  Madoc  or  Hendur,  Marchud,  Ednyfed  Vychan, 
Cadugan  ap  Bledyn,  Cynan  ap  ]Fago,  Sandef  Hard,  Philip  ap  f  for,  Gr. 
ap  Houel  ap  Gr.  o  Von,  ler.  goch,  John  Pilstun,  Tyguared  ap  Robt.  ap 
Assur,  Houel  y  Varf  o  Vrechinoc,  &  Syr  Gr.  Luyd. 

Page  69.  An  account  of  Hiiu  Mortimer  and  of  Houel  ap  \In  Vychan 
•o  Vrecheinoc  and  their  descendants. 

Page  73.  Ach  ac  arfeii  S'  John  ap  Rys  marchog  vrdol  ac  vn  o 
gynghoriaid  y  brenhin  ynghymrii. 

b.  Lanvair  ym  milelt — G  r.  Herbert  ap  Sir  W.  Herbert  o  Golbruc  &c. 

Page  74.  Brenhinluyth  morganiic :  Kriadoc  ap  Jestyn  ap  Gurgan  ap 
jfthel  &c. 

Page  75.  Kynvyn  ap  Gurystan  ap  Guaithvoed  beitig  an  account  of 
Ms  marriage,  descendants,  and  their  territorial  lordships  in  Powys,  SfC. 
Page  83.  The  pettygree  of  the  Rosindales  «of  foxhall,  and  their  armes. 
Page  85.  Pedtoar  Englyn  : 

Llaw  howel  wimel  enwog  syr  mathav 

Uyfr  iachav  llaw  freithog     .... 

Pwyn  waetha     .... 

Ai  dyn  a  wyr  dav  wyneb 

Ai  r  dyn  ni  wyr  air  da  ineb. 

Page  86.  The  pettygree  of  Richard  Evance  by  his  father  s  mother. 


PEDIGREES.  49 

Page  87.  Lyma  dechreii  ystoria  o  achoed  brenhinoed  a  thuyssog- 
ion  ac  ysguieiriaid  a  bonedigion  Cymberii  ac  ynn  ol  hynny 

guehelaetheii  y  tair  Talaith  ac  yn  gyntaf  i  traethun  o  Han-i  uythfed 
brenhin  ^iOeg^. 

Page  90.  Tiidiir  ap  Gronou  ap  Tiidiir  ab  Gronou  ab  Ediiyved 
vychan  &c.  with  aa  account  of  his  five  descendants  and  the  collateral 
relations  of   the  family. 

■  Page  99.  Pump  costoiigluyth  Cymhery  helach  :  Kyntaf  yu  y  Blaid 
rhiid  or  Gest  yii  Efionyd.  Yr  ail  yu  Ada  vaur  yh  neheiibarth  Y 
Trydyd  yu  Alo  yrahouys  Y  pedueryd  yu  Guenuys  ymhouys  Y 
Pumed  yu  Heilin  Ysteilphorch.  / 

b.  Tair  berr  ach  Guyned  Canteli  Vydel,  Mabon  glochyd,  ac  Osburn 
Vydel,  / 

c.  An  account  of  the  children  and  lordships  o/Dd  ab  ^eu.  ap  Einion 
and  of  Cuneda  Vledic. 

102  Syr  John  Gr.  ap  Syr  Thomas  .  .  .  .  ap  Ednyfed  Vychan. 

b.  Tri  dyn    a    gyfanheda  lys.     Bard   Kau    a  bard  tant,   a  bard 
phithlem  &c. 

103  Houel  Vychan  a  dd  a  Gr.  meibion  Ehys  ab  dd  ab  Tho'  and 

their  descendants. 
106  Llyma  henuau  pynntheck  luyth  Guyned  ac  arveii  rhai  o  nadunt. 
108  Arveii  Elystan  Glodriid,  Rikart  ab  Einon,  and  Houel  ab  ifeiiaf. 
b.  Eduard  ap  Ho!  ap  Jeu.  luyd  and  collateral  relations. 

110  Guehelyth  DeJieiibarth:  Ehys  ap  Gr.  ap  Rhys  ap  Teudur  &c. 
Guehelyth  Kayo  :  Davyd  vongam  ab  dd.  ap  Ho'  &c. 

111  Guehelyth  Powys :  Gr.  maelaur  ap  Yuain  vychan  &c. 
Guehelyth  Aruystli :  (a.)  Houel  ab  ^eua  ab  Yuain  &c. 

„  ,,  \b.)  Mered.  ab  Einion  ab  Kynvelyn  &c. 

„  „  (c.)   Yuain  ab  dd.  ab  Einion  distain  ab 

fer.  &c. 
„  „  (d.)  Yuain  moel  ab  jfer.  ab  Gurgeneii  &c. 

Guehelyth  Kyveiliauc  :  Gronu  ab  Ednyfed  ab  Seisylt  &c. 

1 12  Guehelyth  mechain  is  coed :  Jer.  voel  ab  ^eiia  Sais  &c. 

Gue.   Generdinle  ar  11  tref  Kroesvain :  Syr  Roger  ab  Gr.  ap 

^ankyn  &c. 
Gue.  Luydiarth  ymhouys  :  Kelynin  ap  Rhirid  ab  Kyndelu  &c. 
Gue.  Abertanad  ymhowys  :  Mered.  vychan  ab  yr  hen  Vered:  &c. 
Gue.  Kegidva :  Guyn  ab  Gruff,  ap  Beli  ab  Selyf  &c. 

113  Gue.    Burgeding   ymhliiy   Kegidva:    ifthel    goch     ad   dd.    ab 

mered.  &c. 
Gue.  Yuain  :  ]fer.  Vychan  ab  Jer.  goch  &c. 
Giie.  Caer  Einion :  Gr.  ab  M6red.  ab  dd.  ab  Gr.  Vychan  &c. 
Gue.  Ystrad  Alim  :  L'n  ab  Kynvric  evel  ap  Mered.  &c. 
Gzie.  Pulfford  a  mhortiin :  Sandef  hard  ab  Caradoc  &e. 

114  Gue.   Krilheth  yn  suyd    Croes  Osualt :  Einion  Greiilon  ab  Ein. 

ab  Rhirid  vlaid  rf  Beiilyh. 
G.  y  Kaduynfaen  ym  rnechen  vuch  coed ;  Gr.  dec  ab  Gr.  ab 

Einion  &c. 
Guehelyth  Keri :   (a.)  Mered.  ab    maelgun   ab    Oadualon    ab 
Mad.  &c. 
^^  „         (6.)  Randulph  ab  ^er.  ab  Talhayarn  &c. 

^,  „         (c.)  Einion  ap  Ho!  apTiid'^ab  E"  vychan  &c. 

e    87130.  » 


50  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   113. 

G.  Meilienyd   rhung    Guy  a  Hafreh:  Kadualon  ab  Mad.  ab 
ifdnerth  &c. 

115  G.  Elvel  is  mynyd  a  Glyn  biich  :  Ivor  hen  ab  ^er.  ab  Lyuarch 

ab  dinaual  o  von. 
G.  Aber  Edu  yn  Elvael  \  (a.)   Yuain  ab  Mered.  ap  Einion  &C. 
vuch  mynyd   J  (i.)  Oadugon  ab  Gr.  ap  Ho!  Sais  &c 
Giiehelytho  Vilelt :  (a.)  Ehikert  ab  Einion  ap  Gr.  &c. 

116  „  „         (b.)  Y  Brych  Kadarn  a  eluid  Ein.  ab  Mered. 

lien  &c. 
Gije.  Brecheiniauc :  (a.)  Trehayarn  arg.  ab  Trebayarn  vychan  &c. 
^j  J,  (6.)  Bledyn  ab  Maynyrch  ab  driim  benauc  &c. 

Gue.  Guent :  Morgan  ap  Ho!  ab  Jer.  &c. 

117  Giie.  Sainhenyd:  Gr.  ab  ]fvor  ab  meiiric  vychan  &c. 
Gue.  Guentlue  :  Yuain  ab  Elen  v'ch  Lyuarch  &c. 
Gue.  Morgamic  :  Morgant  ab  Cradauc  ab  ^estin  &c. 

118  Gttyned  belach 

Gue.  0  Veirio>i7iyd  :  Ynyr  vychan  ab  ynyr  ab  meiiric  &c. 
Gue.  aral  o  vyned :  Elisss  ab  ^er.  ab  Yuain  Brogeintiin. 
Gue.  Nankoniiy  .-  Ho!  Koetmor  ab  Gr.  Vychan  &c. 
Gue.  aral  o  Vyned :  Einion  Goluyn  Goec  ab  Ednyuain  &c. 
Giie.  Merionnyd:  Yuain  ap  Brochvaelan  ab  Ednyfed  &c. 

119  Giie.  Penlyn  :  Meirian  ab  Leiifodeii  ab  Ehoet  &c. 
Gite.  dogveilin  :  Kynvvic  ab  Alaeth  ab  Eliid  &c. 
Gue.  Rhos  :  Houel  varfehinauc*  ab 

Giie.  aral  o  Arduduy :  Bleiidyd  ab  Caradauc  ab  f  euanaul  &c. 

120  Giie.  Nannaii  :  Lyuarch  ap  Bledyn  a  Chadugan  &c. 

Gue.  Edeirnion :  Bledyn  ab  yuain  Brogeintiin  ab  Mad.  &c. 

121  Plant  Yuein  Guyned  ueithion:  lerwerth  druyndun  a  maelgun  a 

Guenlian  |  Guladus  oed  eii  mam  &c. 
124  Lyma  y  tri  le  yr   aeth  argiuydiaeth  Guyned  i  gogeU  nid  amgen 
vn  o  nadiint  fii  Stratueil  v'ch  Adeaun  ab  Kyuan  &c. 
6.  Meibion  Rhodri  maur  and  their  descendants. 

126  Boned  Einion  ab  Gaalchmai  ab  Meilyr  ab  Mabon  &c. 

127  Boned  Hitfa  ah  Kj/ndelu  ab  Kunus  ab  Ki].in. 

129  Boned  Fran  :  Cadugan  ac  Jar:  meibion  Lyuarch  ap  Bran  &c. 

130  Guyr  Pentraeth :  Geraint  ab  Teguared  ab  Kynvaur  &c. 

131  Boned  guyr  Arvon  :  Kyfnertli  Vychan  ab  Kyfnerth  &c. 
Luyth  Goluyn  .  Moruyd  ac  Eginir  ac  Ednyfed  &c. 

132  Luyth  Bed.  W.  S.]     Tri  meib  Hed  ab  Aliinauc  &c. 

0,  iSrychan  Brycheiniauc  ab  Anlech  Goriiauc  vrenhin  ]fuerdon  &c. 
£.   Guelygordion    Saint:    Tair    guelygord   ynys   Brydain — Plant 

Brychan  B.   a  phlant  Kiineda  vledic  a  phlant  Cau  o  Brydyn 

arg.  Cum  Cauluyd. 

a.  Plant  Caxi  .  /  Dirmic,  Kilid,  Vstic,  Ethymvo  &c. 

133  Plant  Kyndriiyn:  Elvan  /  Kyuon  /  Guiaun  &c. 

b.  Plant  Brychan  :  Kynauc  /  Banhadled  &c. 

*  "  Arf  vinioc  "  in  margin  in  Sir  Tho.  WiHems's  later  hand, 
t   W.  S.  stand  apparently  for  Wiliam  Salustury,  and  many  additions  or  variants 
have  W.  S.  after  them. 


PEDIGREES.  51 

136  Plant  Jaen  :  Dirmic  /  Guynn  /  Stiaun  &c. 
h.  Plant  T.yuarch  hen:  Gueir  /  Pil  /  Laur  / 

137  Plant  vrien  ab  Kynvarch :  Yuein  ab  Vrien  Eheged  &c. 
h.  Plant  Kynvarch  oer  (ap  meiriaun)  :  Leu  /  Araun  /  &c. 

c.  Plant    Keneii    ab    Coel    godeboc :      Padarn    &c.    (and    their 
descendants). 

138  Plant  Don :  Dogyn  verthyr  o  Arvon  /  Guydion  &c. 

6.  Kadugon  ab  Gr.  Dun  ab  Phylib  dordii  &c.,  with  an  account  of 
the  diyision  of  the  Ph.  dordu  estate  in  Tralung  byrr. 

139  Ach  John  Hanmer  ap  Siankin  ap  S"^  Phylib  &c. 

140  Ehobyn  ab  morgan  ab  ^er.  Vychan  &c. 

6.  L'n  ap  dd.  ab  ^er.  ab  Mad.  dii  ab  Gr.  ab  f  er  Vychan  &c. 
c.  Ho!  ab  feuan  ab  Gr.  ab  Mad.  ab  Edn.  Goch  &c. 

141  Ho!  ab  Gronu  ab  ^euan  ab  Gronu  ap  Huna  &c. 

142  Syr  Eoger  o  Kinast  ab  Gr.  ab  Rankin  &c. 

143  ]fohn  Eiitiin  ap  ^ams  ab  mad.  ab  ^euan  &c. 

b.  Ho!  ap  Ehys  ab  dd.  ap  Ho!  ap  Gr.  ap  yuain  ap  Bledyn  &c. 

144  Mam  Jankyn  decka  oed  Adles    v'ch   dd   ab   Lyuarch   Goch    o 

degeingl. 

b,  Eobert  ab  ^euan  vychan  ab  Mad.  ap  Ho!  &c. 

c.  Morys  ab  ^euan  Gethin  ab  Madog'  ab  KyiEn  &c. 

145  ^eraerth  voel  ab  ^er;  goec  ne  ]fer.  vychan  &e. 

146  Tri  maib  Dudiir  Trefor:  Ludycka,  a  Dingad,  a  Gronuy.  &c. 

b.  Guilim  vychan  ab  Gr.  ab  Guilim  &c. 

c.  Madogr  ab  ifeuaf  ab  Madog  ab  Meilyr  &c. 

d.  ^euan  ab  Ada  ab  ^er.  ab  ^euaf  &c. 

e.  Ehys  vychan  ap  Ehys  Gryc  ab  yr  Arg.  Eys  Ac. 

147  Dd.  ab  Gr.  ab  dd.  ab  L'n  ab  dd.  ab  Gronu  &c. 

148  Gr.  ap  Morgan  goch  ab  Gr.  ab  f  er.  voel  &c. 

b.  Edn.  a  Huva  meibion  Kyn^Hc  ab  Ehiualon  ab  Dingad  ab  Tiidiir 

Trevor Ac  ynu  yr  ach  honn  o  D.  Trevor  alan  y  mae 

ymrysson  maur  meun  lyfraii  achoed y  rhain   a  Nynniau 

ab  Kyncric  bioed  Suyd  Gaer  a  Suyd  y  Muythic  &c. 

c.  Madog,  ho!  a  Gr.  meibion  Mered.  ab  Bledyn  ab  Kynvyn  &c. 

149  Giiehelyth  Dyffryn  Cluyd :  Tho"  ab  Jer.  ap  Lyuarch  /  ^er.  at) 
L'n  o  Geinmeirch  /  Bledyn  ab  ^feuan  Domoc  or  Garneduen  a  chubul 
0  uyr.     Sychtiin  &c. 

150  John  ab  Eduart  ab  dd.  ab  Ednyved  [Gam]  &c. 

151  Ehys  ab  Mered.  ab  Yuain  ab  Ho!  da  .  .  .  .  Ehai  a  dyuaid 
fod  mab  i  Ho!  da  ab  Cadel  a  eluid  Eduin  o  El£B.ed  guraic  Elystan 

vrenhin Eduin  bioed  y  dalaith  /  ac  nid  yu  hynny  meun  Cronik 

ynu  y  byd  nac  meun  lyfr  da  or  hen  achoed  &c. 

152  Mastyr  Hiiu  Trygarn  a  eluid  Ho!  ab  Kyn.  ap  Bledyn  &c. 
b.  Plant  L'n  ap  Hulkyn  ap  Ho!  ab  ]fer.  dii  <fcc. 

154  S"^  Eys  ab  Thomas  ab  Gr.  ab  Nicolas  &c.,  and  collateral  relations. 

b.  S"^  James  ab  Yuain  ab  Gr.  ab  Vilkoc  &c. 

c.  Ehjderch  ap  Ehys  ab  Mered  ab  Yuain  arg.  y  Tyuyn  &c. 

d.  Gr.  ap  Ehys  ab  dd.  ap  Tho=  ap  dd.  ap  Mered.  &c. 

e.  L'ii  ab  Tiidiir  ab  Giiilim  ab  Einion  &c. 

D  2 


52  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   113. 

155  Plant  Edn.  vychan  Gronu  a  Gr.  &c. 

h.  Plant  dd.  vychan  ab  dd  Luyd  :  marred  &c. 
c.  ]fohn  arg.  Poujs  ap  llhichiart  ap  Harri  &c. 

156  Vuain  arg.  Glynndyfrduy  ap  Gr.  vychan  ap  Gr.  or  Riidalt  ap 

Mad.  vychan  ap  Mad.  Criipyl  ab  Gr.  varun  guynn  ab  Gr. 
arg.  dinas  Bran  ab  Mad.  ap  Gr.  Maelor  ab  Mad.  ab  Mered. 
ap  Bledyn  ap  Kynvyn  &c. 

b.  yOiam  ab  viliara  ab  Gr.  ap  Ehobin  ap  Gr.  &c. 

c.  Yuain  ab  Tiid'  Vychan  ab  Guilim  &c. 

d.  ^ohu  Luyd   [o  Abertanad]  ac  ifeu.  a  Rhobert  oed  veib.  dd. 

Luyd  &c. 

157  ifohn  ap  Ho!  vychan  ap  Ho!  ab  Gr.  &c. 

158  Ach  Thomas  Domoc  a  dd.  i  fraud  ab  ^eu  ab  dd.  doraoc  Ac. 
Page  161.  Hyd  yma  ir  oed  y  copi  o  lau  Sy'  ^ohn  Powys  a  ysgrifennod  ynghylcb 

O.C.  1514  onid  hynn  y  syd  rhung  y  markie  yma  [     ].  Then  follows 
3  pages  "  o  Ian  arall." 

161  fankyn  ab  dd.  ab  Madojr  y  Crach  ab  Gronu  &c. 
b.  Rhobert  ab  Eduart  ab  Eduard  &c. 

162  John  Luyd  ap  ]fohn  Luyd  ap  Rich.  Luyd  &c. 

b.  Liuiee :  Liu  du  a  unair  a  guni  a  gaul  a  chopras  val  y  gunair 
inck.  /  Liu  coch  a  unair  o  vermilion  &c. 

164  Syr  Eduard  Kinaston  ab  fPrancys  Kinaston  &c. 

b.  (Dd.  ap  Howel  ap  Dd.  ap  Gr ap  Madog  Vychan  a 

wepra  &c.) 

Page  165.  Sheweth  how  Owen  Tudor  is  descended  from  Beli  MaTvr 
and  Ehodri  mawr  ''  by  Guttyn  Owen  and  S"^  John  Leias  bookes  " : 
Bryttaine  of  whom  Kinge  Henrie  the  .  7  .  discendeth  lyneallie  in  the  . 
31*  degree  &c. 

Page  177.  jfnsignia  Britannoruw. 

b.  This  booke  seemeth  to  have  been  Compyled  aboute  the  yeere  of  o'  Lorde  .1572. 

Page  178.  (The  petigree  of  Richard  Evance  by  his  mothers  mother  by 
her  father  syd  /  &c.) 

Pages  179-318.  Some  account  of  peers  and  of  those  created  peers 
and  of  their  arms  from  William  the  Conqueror  to  the  accession  of  Queea 
Elizabeth — all  in  English. 


MS.  114.  A  Book  of  Pedigrees;  paper;  7f  x  5f  inches;  con- 
siderably injured  by  damp  and  imperfect;  the  folios  run  1,  55,  blank, 
3-38,  40-49,  61, 62,  50-52,  (53),  and  an  Index  folio  (the  last  two  folios 
are  torn,  and  the  right  hand  third  of  the  leaves  are  gone)  in  two 
distinct  hands— A  =  folios  1-236 ;  and  B  =  folios  25-516  ;  circa  1592 
(folio  376)  ;  bound  in  Russia  leather. 

The  following  entries  are  found  on  the  fly-leaf:—"  Richard  Mansell;" 
"A  Booke  off  Collecons  or  the  Brieffes  off  Petegrees  intituled  the 
Gwehelith ;  "  and  in  rusty  ink  "  John  Prichard." 

Page  1.  Gvehelyth  Dauid  lloid  griffith  ap  price  of  llanllawthoge 
essquier. 


PEDIGKEES.  53 

Sir  Gaerfyrddin  : 

3.  TLanegwad  vawr  :  lewis  gwin  ap  dd  ap  gwillym  ap  ^eu:  glas  &c. 

36.  ILanfynydd :  lewis  ap  Rys  ap  william  ap  dd  ap  'Rps  ap  Hin  &c. 

b.  Pwll  dyfach:  owein  ap  m'edd}  yclian   ap  m'edd}   ap   Ricert   &c. 

mam  owain  ap  mer:  oedd  vS}  mar:  ap  kadwgan  vantach 

ap  liin  ap  Gr:  ap  Ruddj  ap  odel  vrych  ap  predir  beiswyrdd  argloydd 
iredigion. 

7.  Kaer  wedras  :  Dauid  ap  feu:  ap  gr :  ap  dauid  ap  He'in  voel  &c. 

9.  Kidwely :  M.'  owain  vicar  Uanysmel  ap  gwallter  ap  gftim  &c. 

11.   Gwehelyth  maelor :  feu:  gethin  ap  fames  ap  madog  &c. 

b.  Gwehelyth  trefor :  Adda  goch  ap  f euaf  ap  Adda  vawr  &c. 

c.  Gwehelyth  maelor  seisnig :  Hin  ap  gr :  ap  f  erwerth  voel  &c. 
116.  Glyn  kothy  :  Gr:  Uoid  ap  dd:  lloyd  ap  gr;  ap  feu:  lloyd  &c. 
L  Hirfryn :  Siors  dd:  gwyn  ap  HoelL  ap  Rydds  &c. 

126.   Treftech  or  bettus :  feu:  ap  howell  ap  feu:  ap  Einon  &c. 

13.  Abergwyly :  M"^  william  ap  feu:  ap  m'edd}  ap  gwillim  &c. 

6.  TLanymddyfry :  Gwilh'm  gwyn  ap  Einon  ap  gSm  ap  Ein:  Kest  &c 

146.  ILanitonny  :  Dd:  lloyd  ap  howel  ap  dd:  ap  howel  ychan  &c. 

156.  and  226.  Kaerfyrddin :  Arg:  thomas  prior  Kaerverddyn  ap 
moris  &c. 

17.  fskennen:  S"^  fohn  gwyn  ap  dd:  ap  feu:  ap  Henry  &c. 

176.  TLanarthney  :  f enkin  dd  ap  fohn  ap  glim  vychan  &c. 

19.  Kynwyl  gayo  :  M"'  morgari  ap  dd.ap  gr:  ychan  ap  feu:  &c. 

6.  Kidwely  :   Robert  a[>  gr:  apdd:  ap  einon  ap  f  enkin  lloid  &c. 

206.  Arglwydd  y  tywyn  :  John  ap  "Rys  ap  Rydd}  ap  "Rys  &c. 

.21.   Castell  gwis ;  fohn  ap  Risert  wgan  ap  syr  fohn  wgan  &c. 

23.  Pentre  Jevan  :  My  thomas  ap  owen  ap  %yr  fames  ap  ow:  &c. 
236.  Picktmn :  M"^  W"^  Phes  o  pictwn  ap  m'  fohn  ap  syr  tho:  &c. 

24.  Ywch  Auron  :  David  ap  gr:  dd:  ab  feu:  ap  gr:  &c. 

246.  plant  vrien  reged  oithen  owen  a  Rin  a  Ry^vallon  ag  elfBn  a 
ffasken  a  thadail  a  chiudeirne  &c. 

25.  guehelyth  Jenkin  lloyde  o  gemes  :  Hugh  lloyd  ap  tho:  lloyd  &c. 

28.  Brechon  sa'  ■  Phillipp  ap  fohn  ap  ^ra  ap  dd :  ap  watk: 
ilwyd  &c. 

286.  Thomas  lloid  ap  fohn  Ilwyd  ap  dd:  ap  gr:  ap  fohn  &c. 

29.  Dauid  ap  howell  ap  m'gan  ychan  ap  morgan  &c. 

6.  Glamorgan  sh' :  IL'in  ap  feu:  gethin  ap  feu:  ap  Ueison  ap 
Rees  &c. 

296.  Mab  eilfyw  :  Owen  ap  w™  ap  fenkin  .  .  .  .  ap  Rydd3  ap 
tewdwr  mawr  &c. 

306.  M"  Gr:  ap  Bees  ap  S'  gr:  ap  S'^  Rees  ap  t.ho^  ap  gr:  ap  nicholas 

33.  GwBNT  :  S''  w™  herbert  ap  S'^  Ris;  herbert  0  Colbrooke  &c. 

6.   Gilfach  Wenn :  fenkin  ap  Rees  ap  dd:   .   .  ,  a  wnaeth  y  plas  &c. 
336.  Brycheinog — Brodorddyn:  Tho*  vychan  ap  water  vychan  &c. 

34.  Dauid  ap  Rees  ap  W"  ap  Eynon  ap  morgan  vechan  &c. 


54  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   114. 

36.  Chiehelyth  S'  Gruffith  llwyd  o  Wynedd  ap  'Rijs  ap  gr:  ap 
Ednyvett  vechan  &c. 

366.  ArglimjddlKewelyn  ap  fer:  drwyndwn  ap  Ow:  gwynedd  &c. 

b.  Mbrionedd  :  Ynyr  vyclian  ap  ynyr  ap  meirik  &c. 

37.  RWNG  Nedd  AG  AuAN:  W™  ap  ^enkin  ap  hopkin  &c. 

5.  TiR  Jarlh  :  f  evan  ap  david  ap  f  enkin  a  tho«  meybon  howell  &c. 

c.  Yr  Radyr  y  Morganniogg :  M'^  w™  ap  S"'  Siors  ap  S"'  W™  &c. 

37.  "Pembk  /  18  martii  Ao  Eliz :  34  Sessione  Quadr'  Com'  Pembr'  these 
chalenges  were  putt  in  by  Gelly  meyrick  esqr.  in  diuerse  suytes  betweene  him  & 
hugh  Owens  &  others  deff'"  for  to  chalendge  Owen  Jones  &  Jeuan  ap  W"  Coroners 
for  advoyding  delaies  for  returning  y=  Juryes."  Then  follow  the  pedigrees  of  the 
two  sides. 

396.   Y  Radyr :     Sioned  vcrch  tho^    ap    phe'    ap    Adam   vychan 

A  mab  y  fy  yddi Eys  ap  Adda  oddyno  y  priodes  ^eu: 

ap  Hia  ap  Kynfryg  Arg:  yr  adyr  a  morgannwg  Ag  ef  y  fy  yddi  fab  a 
elwid  ^eu:  Bin  &c. 

h.  Trefdegir  :  M"^  w™  ap  m'^  f obn  ap  S'  morgan  ap  S'  ^obu  ap  feu: 
ap  flin  ap  morgan  jip  ftin  ap  ]ffor  &c. 

40.  Gwern  y  Kleppa  :  Phillipp  w™  ap  Jobn  ap  morgan  ap  tho'  [ap] 
ffor  bael  &c. 

b.  Mechain  :  The'  ap  Eoland  ap  tbo>'  ap  S'"  f  ohn  ap  f  ou:  ap  Hin  &c.  ' 
406.   Gwehelyth  Rees  Dd:  ap  Eynon  ap  dd:  ap  feu:  blayne  &c. 

43.  ILanweini :  S"'  f  ohn  Salbri  marchog  ap  S'^  Eoger  Salbri  ap  S'^ 
tho*  Salbri  ap  tbo^  ben  salbri  ap  harri  salbri  ap  Rowling  salbri. 

6.  Gwehelyth  Jal :  f  evann  ap  Hnn  ap  gr:  lloid. 

c.  Penllyn  :  fobu  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  bowell  &c. 

d.  Kydetuain  .  Arg:  Kedewain  pedd  m'edds  ap  Rob*  ap  Uowareh  &c. 

e.  Kefeiliog :  fevan blayne  ap  feu:  ap  koedmor  ap  fthel  ap  meilirddy. 
436.   Gwehelyth  Harri  VIII.  brenin  JLoeger  vab  Harry  VII.  &c. 
446.  ILyma  ffordh  yr  aeth  merched  Griffith  llewelyn  foethis :  Vn 

oedd  f  oned  gwraig  Nicbolas  ap  phe'.  Yr  ail  oedd  gwraig  bowel  inelyn  o 
dir  gwyr  &c. 

6.   Gorwst  ap  Rywalhon  ap  Henwyn  ap  Bleiddyd  ap  Asser  &c.  fol.  37. 

c.  Ray  o  hlant  Arg:  Rees — Gr:  ap  yr  Arg:  Rees  y  mab  hynaf  &c. 

45.  Plant  Owein  Gwinedd  ynt  /  Dauid  /  Eodri  /  Cadwallon  abad 
Enlb  /  Angbarad.  &c. 

46.  Byellt  a  llangamarch  ym  myellt — Rydd:  ap  Eees  ap  feu:  &c. 
6.  Brechinogg  :  Thomas  ap  morgan  ap  trahayarn  &c. 

47.  Tref  Faldwyn :  Edward  herbert  ap  S''  Risiart  berbert. 
476.  Plant  Edward  IV. — Edward  V.  ag  Elizabeth  &c. 

48.  Dauid  lloid  Blaene  ap  tho^  ap  feu :  llwyd  <fec. 


BONEDD    SAINT   KtmEY.* 

486.  Dewi  ap  Sank  ap  Karedig  ap  Kynedda  wledig  a  Non  verch 
Gynyr  o  Gaer  gawch  oedd  y  fam.  (2)  Dochuael  ap  f  thel  ap  Karedig 
ap  K.  w.  (3)  Teilaw  ap  eusilid  ap  heiddin  dun  ap  Karedig  &c. 
(4)  Afan  byellt  ap  Karedig  ap  K.  w.  a  Tbe[c]fed  v'ch  degid  voel  o 
benllyn  oedd  y  yam.  (5)  Gwylleu  ap  Kyngar  ap  garthaf  ap  Karedig 
ap  K.  w.     (6)  Kynfelyn  ap  bleyddyd  &c.     (7)  Eynawn  vrenin  yn  llyn 


PEDIGREES  55 

a  siriol  ym  heninon  a  meyriawn  yn  y  cantref  meibion  ywain  danwyn 
ap  Bynon  yrth  ap  K.  w.  (8)  Edyrn  a  beli  ap  Run  &c.  (9)  Deinol 
ap  dynod  vyrt  &e.  (10)  Kadwaladar  vendigaid  &c.  (11)  Asa  ap 
Assawyl  benychel     ....     a  gwenfaeth^v'ch  Eein  o  Rieinug  y  fam. 

(12)  Kyndeirn   garthwys ap  denydd  v'ch  leydyn  &c. 

(13)  Gorwst  ap  Q-waeth  hen  gaer  ap  vrien  ag  evronfu  &c.  (14)  Ryan 
ap  eskin  ap  llwarch  hen  a  lleiddaf  yn  enlli  a  baglavig  coed  alyn  ag  eleri 
yn  henant  a  thegfy  a  thevrlan  yngredigion  iscoed  meibion  dyngad  &c. 

(15)  Cadfan  saiit  yn  henlli  &c.  (16)  Henwen  a  gwyndof  hen  o  lydaw 
periglawr   kattwn   ar   Seint   y  fy   yn   henlli   yn   vn   oes    ag    hwynt. 

(16)  Kynan  ap  dochwy  a  mael  a  sulien  a  charawg  ag  ethrias  a  llywen 
a  liifab  a  ddaythant  gyda  chadfan  yr  ynys  hon.  (17)  Patarn  ap 
petrun  &c.  (18)  Tydecho  ap  Envu  ddy  &c.  (18)  Rynav  ap  divug  &c. 
(19)  Maelerys  ap  gwyddno  &c.  (20)  Tegei  glasawg  y  maes  y  llan 
aThriUo  yn  Ros  &c.  (21)  Kybyd  ap  Selif  &e.  (22)  Patrig  ap 
gwryd  &c.  (23)  Kattwg  sant  ap  gynlliw  ap  glywys  ap  tegid  o  langadog 
yn  gwent.  (24)  Kadfarch  Sant  yn  y  berveth  yn  llyn  &c.  (25)  Tysliaw 
ap  brochwell  &c.  (26)  Uewelyn  or  trallwng  <fec.  (27)  Gwrnerth  sant 
mab  Bin  or  trallwng  kegidfa  Ethaiarn  ynhedewlyn"  ymhowys  a 
Uwchaiarn  ynghedewein  a  chachayrn  yn  eiddonydd  moibion  hy  garnael 
ap  gyndrwyn  o  lystyn  wynnan  ynghaer  einyon.  (28)  Gwyddfarch  yn 
emod  malarus  tywyssawg  y  pwyll.  (29)  ystyphan  mab  mawin  ap 
Kyngen  ap  Kadell  deirnllig.  (30;  titlglyd  a  gynodil  a  meurin  a  thitno 
a  senevir  meibion  serdenym  frenin  o  faes  gwyddno  orgynwis  mor  a 
thir  gyrch  ydaw  ym  mon  a  teirnawg  yn  yfEryn  clwyd  a  thyttir  yn 
ddarowen  ynghefeilog  brodyr  oeddynt  a  meybion  Awystyl  glofi. 

50.  Parke  y  pratt:  Dauid  ap  tho^  ap  ^enkin  ap  owain  &c. 
b.  S'  Edward  Stradling  ap  S'^  thomas  Stradling  ap  S""  Harry  &c. 
'  506.   Wogans  of  Wiston  :  John  wogan  ap  Risiart  wogan  ap  S''  ^ohn 
wogan  &c.     A  few  folios  follow  in  a  later  hand,  mostly  imperfect. 

53.  Charles  ap  George  ap  -fames  *  *  *  * 

54.  Wanting. 

55.  Mam  henrie  morgan  oedd  lleiky  verch  waiter  ap  ^eu:  ap  Gr. 
donn./.  &c. 

56  blank,  and  57-60  wanting. 

61.  merchyll  chwaer  a  thywanwedd  verch  Amiawdd  wledig  y  mam ./. 
&c. 

b.   Turberuille :  Annes  verch  Sir  Paen  oedd  gwraig  Sir  John  daliber 
arg.  gweble./.  &c. 

62.  Blank.  ..  •  * 

63.  Table  of  contents — outer  margin  imperfect. 

*  This  transcript  seems  to  belong  to  the  same  archetype  as  the  text  of  the 
Bonhed  in  Comray  MS.  2,  q.v. 


56.  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   115. 

MS.  115.  Dahes  Phbygius  and  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  from 
the  Cors  y 'Gedol  Library.  Paper;  7f  X  Sficches;  -137  folios; 
imperfect  and  much  injured  by  damp — folios  1-64  are  more  or  less  torn 
especially  at  the  bottom  outer  corners ;  xvnth  century.  It  bears  the 
name  of  "  William  Roland  "  in  three  places. 

The  text  of  Dares  Phrygius  agrees  with  that  in  MS.  109  and 
begins :  hyny  ddigwyddo  Uawer  o  dwsog[ion  a  medd]wl  o  achil  (see 
Bruts,  p.  23,  1.  14). 

The  text  of  Geoffrey's  Historia  Regum  Britannia  belongs  to  the 
Compiled  versions  and  is  in  almost  verbal  agreement  with  MS.  109  in 
some  parts  and  with  the  Bed  Book  version  in  other  parts.  The  text 
ends  :  athrachefn  y  goUed  gynta  a  ddoeth  ir  brytanied  bedwyr  a  las  yn 
farw  a  chay  a  frathwyd  yng  ||  (see  Bruts,  p.  224,  1.  17). 


MS.  116.  Dares  Phrygbs,  Brut  t  Brenhineb,  &  Brut  y 
Tywyssogion  from  the  "  Gloddaetli  Library  93 " ;  vellum  ;  7f  x  5J 
inches,  having  respectively  30  lines  (folios  1-141),  23  lines  (fols.  142- 
1496),  and  28  lines  (folios  150-2066)  to  the  page,  with  large  red 
initials  ;  xivth  century ;  folios  1-206  (two  folios  are  numbered  138) 
are  arranged  wrongly  by  the  binder,  who  has  "shaved"  the  margins 
recklessly  ;  imperfect  at  the  end ;  bound  in  white  vellum.  The  begin- 
ning of  sentences,  and  important  names,  have  been  underscored  in  red, 
and  occasionally  letters  are  patched  with  red.  The  first  and  last  page 
are  very  dirty  and  the  writing  has  been  retraced  in  part. 

This  interesting  and  important  MS.  bears  the  signature  of  "  Perys 
Mostyn"  in  a  hand  of  the  xvith  century  (early),  and  on  the  same 
folio  (236)  is  the  entry,  "  Simonis  ThelwaJli  Plafwardenfis  Armiger 
Liber,  tefte  Guil.  Mauricio  Lanfilienf.  qui  hunc  totiiwi  ad  fuum 
exemplar  examinavit .  1660." 

The  text  of  this  MS.  is  in  verbal  agreement  with  that  re-produced, 
in  1890,  from  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest  (cols.  1-376),  with  the  title  of 
Bruts.  This  BIS.  was  written  at  a  stage  intermediate  between  the 
regular  dotting  of  the  y  and  the  discontinuance  of  that  practice ;  the 
form  of  the  y  also  varies  in  this  as  in  the  British  Museum  Addl.  MS. 
19709,  which  appears  to  be  the  penmanship  of  the  same  scribe  (see 
facsimile  facing  page  1  of  Bruts).  The  Mostyn  MS.  is  certainly 
earlier  than  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  and  the  fact  that  identical 
variations  in  the  ortliograpliy  occur  over  and  over  again  in  certain 
passages,  points  to  the  one  being  a  transcript  of  the  other.  The 
divisions  of  the  chapters  are  also  the  same,  and  certain  slips  and 
omissions  are  made  in  the  same  places.  Brut  y  Tywyssogion  was 
written  earlier  than  folios  1-1416. 

Dares  Phrygius  (fols.  1-236)  is  complete :  the  text  ends  with  the 
words  "  ef  ae  nifer  "  {Bruts,  p.  39, 1.  2,  and  p.  414,  1.  8). 

Historia  Eegum  Britanniae  (fols.  24-1416)  is  also  complete,  and 
this  text  seems  to  be  the  archetype  of  the  Vaticinium  version  from 
the  end  of  the  prophecy  to  the  colophon  {Bruts,  pp.  155,  1.  26  to  256). 
Mostyn  MS.  116;  B.  Mus,  Addl.,  19709;  Red  Book  of  Hergest;  and 
Hengwrt  MS.  15,  appear  to  be  all  the  vellum  copies  which  agree  in 
the  later  portion  of  the  Historia.  For  the  Red  Book  "  k'yt  werf6r," 
this  MS.  reads  "  kyt  oellOr."  After  the  colophon  there  are  two  entries 
in  the  original  hand  ;  these  have  been  gall-stained  so  thickly  as  to  be 


BRUT  Y  TYWYSSOGION.  5T 

only  partially  legible.  The  first  reads  :  Neur  daruu  yfcriuenu  y  brut 
hOn  yn  gObyl  drth*  |  MadaOc.  boet  bendigedic  vo  yr  arglOyd  ieffu  uab 
(meir  wyry) . 

^The  second  entry  would  require  much  time  and  patience  to  decipher, 
if'it  can  be  said  to  be  decipherable  as  a  whole. 

Bkut  t  Tyvyyssogion  (folios  142-2066)  is  complete  all  but  the  final 
gathering  and  the  text  now  ends  :  Ar  brenhin  a  genhataaCjd  ||  (Bruts, 
p.  379, 1.  1).  The  Red  Book  text  has  been  printed  thrice,  (1)  in  the 
Myvyrian  Archaiology  of  Wales  (London  1800-7  &  Denbigh  1870)  ; 
(2)  in  the  edition  of  the  Rolls  Series  (1860)  ;  and  (3)  in  the  Oxford 
edition  of  the  5rM*.s  (1890).  As  Mostyn  MS.  116  appears  to  be  the 
original  of  the  Red  Book,  the  misreadings  and  omissions  of  that  text, 
as  far  as  they  affect  the  sense,  are  appended  here,  with  references  to  the 
Oxford  edition. 

Page.    Line. 

258  5  gOeith  garth  maelaOc 

32  Ac  y  bu  vavO  rein  vrenhin  dyfet  a  &c. 

259  19  faturbin  ||  1.  31,  kynan  nant  niuer 

260  9  rodri  o  duO.     Ac  yna   bu  varO    katweitheu.     ac  y    bu 

vavO  hywel  yn  rufein.     Deg 
25  Ac  y  bu  weith  dinneir  yn  yr  hOa  &c. 

261  16  a  morcleis  efgob  bangor 

262  18  Ac  ychedychOyt  Meuruc 

25  hOel  ap  ]feuaf  ac  y  gOerefgynOys  kyuoeth  Jago. 
32  llan  wenaOc 

263  14  ar  yr  anifeileit  yn  hoU  &c. 
32  duO  ^eu  kyfarchafel.     Ac  &c. 

264  11  y  bu  varO  Mor  ap  gwyn     .     .     .  porth  talarchi 
17  Ac  y  gyraOd  erald  eldryt  &c. 

19  Ac  yna  y  kythroef  brian  &c. 

25   Omit  "  Ac  y  I  huryaOd vrenhin.     Ac  " 

265  6  ap  feifytt  goruchaf  vrenhin  gOyned 

20  drOyleOder  or  gOyndyt 

266  5  y  bu  varO  cnut.      The  nw  of   cnut  are   transposed  on 

page  264,  1.  32. 

14  ryt  groes ef.     Yn  y  vlOydyn 

17  y  bu  varO  hennin  [or  henuin] 

267  32  Ac  y  bu  var6  dOnchach  &c. 

268  4  gyntaf  agOedy  hyny  trOy  &c, 

21  clot  i  uoruffaf  a  chadarnaf  &c. 

22  a  hynaOs  6rth  y  kidaOtwyr 

269  10  vrOydyr  g6eunottytt  rOgt  a  ttywelyn  meibon  &c. 
13  Ac  yna  y  bu  urOydyr  ILan  wnda  .  Ac  yna 

17  onys   codic.      A    phan    godic  oe   anuod    y    dialei   y 

codyant  Ac. 
32  y  tias  trahaern  ab  caradaOc  vab  (y  ganj)  gruff ud. 

270  11  ap  teOddr  oe  teyrnas  y  gan  &c.  , 
19  ac  yd  yfpeilOyt    ||  fulyen  yfcob  (1.  21). 

26  y  gan  genedloed  yr  ynyffed 

*  drth  makes  no  sense,  but  apparently  the  first  letter  is  d,  not  6.  It  is  difficult  to 
decide  whether  anything  is  lost  before _the  word  MadaOc — 6rth  arch  Madadc  is  the 
only  reading  that  suggests  itself  as  likely. 

t  Peniarth  MS.  20  reads — r6g  goronw  a  Uywelyn  meibon  &c. 

X  Above  line,  in  a  later  hand. . 


58:.  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  116. 

Page.    line. 

271  4  Ac  a  gadarnhaaffant  o  geftyfl:    a  hott   tir  y  brytanyeit 

a  achubaffant  .  Ac  yna 

12  brenhin  y  brytanyeit  yr  hOnn 

15  y  ymlad  a  farafinyeit aghyfyeith 

17  a  gOilim  yn  trigyaO. 

272  2  yna  y  gOrthladaOd 

5  yn  orOac  heb  heniH  dim.  .ac  y  Sas 

7  y  freinc  a  gyffroaffant  lu  (yn  erbyn*)  y 

273  5  ygan  y  freinc.  a  dugant  yfreinc  y  von.  Ac 

6  a  grufud  |  kynan  [«ic].     (1.  20)  dOyn  aoruc  y  freinc  o!i. 

32  varO  rychiuarcli+ 

274  2  ny  cbaOffei  dyfc  gan  dyn  arall  eithyr 

4  ac  Sktnadyffai-nad-is  written  above  line. 

13  y  gan  neb  vn  varchaOcj 

24  o  vrenjhinaOl  goron  y  goffodaffant 

34  Ac  yna   ydrychefif  henri    vrenhin  ef  ar  |  deilygdaOt  vch 

275  8  ar  Oyfc  omitted ;    also  ynda6  (1.  34). 
34  a  bryg  yn  erbyn  yr  hOn  &c. 

277  4  heb  dybygu  cael  gOrthOynebu  gantu  [sic], 

8  A  rei  a  oed  gudedic 

22  ae  tienOi  eilweith  oe  wyr  e  bun  yr  h6n  [sic]  a 

278  14  Ac  yn  y  kyfrCig.     ||  (1.  30)  dr6y  d6ytt  y  kygor. 

34  yn  gamlyryus  ac  yny  diwed  |  y  barnOyt  ygkarchar 

279  3  kedernit  a  iecliyt  a  didanOcb 

26  duhunaO  y  gytymdeithon  a  galO  arnunt.     Ar 

280  3  feren  anryfed  y  g6elet  yn  anuon 

5  oleuat  idaO  yn  darogan 

280  19  Ac   ymlit  or   bren|hin  yny   delis  ef   ae  wyr  a   anuones 

y   loegyr  yO  karcharu   a  hoft  normandi    a  dodes  Orth 
y  medyant  .  Yny 
29  nyOn  py  le  yd  ymgudyffyt  ynyr  ynys 

281  2    a   gCierefgyn  |  ygOlat   hyt   y    nychmoelOyt  [sic]  yr  hofi 

wlat  ar  grynnodeb 
4  dielO  wimon  ar  tywot  yr  tir 

7  nu  attei  baOb  gytbreffOylaO  y  |  yno 

9  ac  a  adolyg|aOd  idaO  gaffel 

13  hyny  hyt  hediO  |1  1.  24  omit  idaO 

33  yna  y  doeth  yr  caftfityd  oed     .     .     .    .  yn  kyfgu  yndi. 

282  8  adywedut  6rth  y  gOyr  a  oedynt  allan 

11  ympop  man.      \\  1.  12,  a  mab  aratt  idaO  ynteu 

283  7  yn  erbyn  henri  vrenhin     |1  1.  16,  giOdaOt  p6y  &e. 
26  At  rei  a  gilaffant  att     |1  1.  27,  rei  giftOyf  y 

33  doeth  vchtrut  yna.  A  gOedy  y  dyuot   ymgynuttaO  |  h6y 
kerdet  hyt  nos  a  diffeithaO  y  gOladoedd  yny  vei  dyd. 

284  7  ac  vrddaffaOl     .     .     .     nifer     ||  1.  13,  gOibiaO  ym  pob 
12,  a  dywedi  y  neb  ymgytymdithaXi  ae  yftryw  ef. 

24  o  gyfleed  y  feint     ||  1.  28,  murtarch 

285  8  o  gadOgaOn  ar  brenhin  y    ||  1.  21,  aOnant  heb 

24    at   y  brenhin    a  wnaeth  ac  ny  lauaffaOd  neb  arwein  y 
genatOri  hyt  at  y  brenhin.  TgkyfrOg 

♦  Above  line,  in  a  later  hand. 

f  The  formation  of  iu  is  not  decisive ;  read  Rycivarch. 

{  Walter  Turrel  is  not  mentioned  hy  name. 


BEUT  T  TyWYSSOGION.  59 


Line. 


285  28  Ac  yna  yd  anuones  ricart  yftiwart  jnj  ol  at   vadaOc   y 

erchi  talu  j  gwyr  awnatlioed  y  kam  yr  brenhin      Ac 
ynteu  a  OrtbOynebaOd  liyny  ac  nys  talaOd. 

286  34  ocii  carcharu  neu  ych  Sad  neu  ych  diuetha 

287  4  da  yO  meibon  a  nyeint  kanys    otymgetymdeitbOn    dim. 

a  chwi     II   1.  15,  Ac  abreid 
25  meironyd     ||    1.  29.  onyd  y  letyu  heb 

31  yn  dOyn  y  bydin  gyweir  yn  kyfariiot  ac  dynt. 

288  10  y  gytymdeilbon  a  aethont  y  dyfet 

19  omit  kymeiat  ac  ||  also  heb  y  kadOgaa  1.  32. 

290  4  yr  teruyn  hOnO  ydeuthant 

15  drCy  y  tan  .  ac  adaO  forwerth  yn  y  tan  .  Ac 

291  6  A  gOedy  rac  welet  or  efcob 
29  kyfoeth  MadaOc  vab  ridit. 

32  A  gOadu  yn  gyntaf  aOuaeth  hyt  naf  gOydat.     Ac 

34  A  gOedy  rOymaO  y  g6r  hOnCi  (anfon)  yfpiwyr  a  wnaeth  yno 

293  23  gdedj  adaO  idaO  onadunt  kael  y  tir 

294  5  Anuon  kenadeu  aoruc  gruffud  at  y  bren]iin 

6  ae  kymertb  ef  y  hedOch  drOy  dalu  idaO  dreth  ua&r. 

15  rac  Oyneb  yd  ymhoelaOd     ||  1.  19,  yfcol- 

21  vab  rys  vab  teOdOr 

22  o  ^vverdon  y  dyfet  yr  hOn 

29  gyt  ae  gereint  .  gOeitheu  yggOyd,     GOeitheu  yn  a(jfen 

296  23  ny  thai  ewyttus  dyn  dim 

297  12  maredud  vab  ryderch  ap  cradaOc  pytheOnos 
14  laOgam  yn  abnr  cofOy     ||    1.  31,  ygOyr 

19  ar  y  caftell     .     .     .     .     ap  rvs  ae  getymdeithon  kyrcb 

298  1  kOymp  dyn      ||  1,  2,  ch6ydedic  o  valchder 

7  gerenyd  a  chyfadnabot  a     ||  1.  11,  kymry  noc 
22  ym  yfcrin  ac  ef     ||  1.  25,  yr  hOn  a  adeilaffei 

299  6  pebyttaw  awnaethant     ||  1.  8,  AnadafrOyd 

18  A  gOercheitwat     ||  1.  19,  ac  y  gaSyffant 

300  3  vegys  o  delOynt  Oy  yn  anfynhOyraOl  drOy  y  bont 
14  y  dygOydaOd     ....     paOb  a  gwayOar  y  Bad 

16  or  vydin  ae  tynut    ||  1.  29,  yny  He  aaeth 

301  7  rys  yn  trigyaO  kanys  coetir  ynyal  oed 

9  deuthant  y  teruyneu  y  wlat  hoH  lu  ywein 

24  edrych  avs^elyn  oleu  dynyon  yn  ifo. 

28  eu  daly  yna  ymchoelut  hyt  at     ||  1.  33,  hyfpeilaO^ 

302  5  orugaut  ac  ywein  heb  debygu 

20  ef  y  kynhelis     ||  1.  22,  kereinaOn 

27  o  ellelu  verch  kediuor 

303  7  He  aelwir  kymer  ymeironyd 

19  A  maOdOy  a  banner  penHyn 

304  19  0  luoed  a  budug-    ||  1.  26,  oe  vot  yn  vrenhin  ya 

29  y  rei  a  debygit  y  hot 

305  12  0  ordechat    ||  1.  22,  o  foynt 

25  y  kaOfant  gOar(ch)ad6 

306  2  Had  rei  a  brathu     ||  1.  8,  drachefyn  yar  yr  aniett 

28  ruffud  apfulhaem 

307  4  a  wnaeth  catwaHaOn  ac  owein 

6  y  wlat  o  bono.    ||  1.  12,  0  achaOs 

17  lladaOd  catwaSaOn  ap  gr:    ||  1.  27,  ar  rei  y  bu- 

308  26  katwaitaOn  vab  gruffud 

309  9  y  g6yr  aoedynt  degOch    ||  1.  14,  hardelwyr 


60  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   116. 

Page.    liine. 

310  12  cael  y  vudugolyae<A  yn  anrydedus 
22  kyn  no  hynny    ||  1.  28,  hyt  y  agheu 

311  15  anaraOt     ||  1.  la  ac  nas  ofynhaei  .  Ac  gOedy 

22  o  gereinaOn     ||  1.  32,  y  dellis  y  germanwyr 

23  Ac  yna  y  lias  Meibon  milo*  Jarit  henford 

312  4  y  bodes  pererinion  o  gymry     ||  1.  7,  gemaeron.- 

8  yd  atgyweirOyt  gafteS  golOyn 

9  y  delis  hu  o  mortemer     ||  1.  12,  yvraOt  (Aberteiui) 

20  gOr  0  oet  ac  aeduet     ||  1.  25,  y  gyffegredig  gorfE 

313  11  y  elynyou  ac  arueu     ||  314,  1.  2,  omit  dim 

314  21  adiruaOr  luoeffyd     ||  1.  33,  ar  dyOedigyon 

315  7  a  chadwaladyr  y  ewythyr.      ||  1.  10,  y  nodyeu 
16  arwon  vegythyeu      ||  1.  17,  omit  anregyon  a 

24  henri  vreuhin     ||  1.  28,  yr  eglOyf  .  gOrthOynebOr 
30  y  bu  efcob  nicol  vab  gOrgant  eicob 

32  y  volyanrOyd  .  a  dOyOaOl  y  fanteidr6yd  wedy 

316  6  yr  egOyf  yn  gyflaOn     ||  1.  9,  y  bu  diruaOr 

13  gafiell  yn  llan  ryftut y  ran  ef  o  gere- 

317  18  y  gOrthladOyt  catwaladyr 
22  rys  y  bydinoed  y  penwedic 
30  y  caitell  aberauyn 

318  1  y  loeger  ac  y  gOledychaOd  holl  loegyr.     Yny 

15  y  bu  varO  geffrei    el'cob    Han   daff  a   rolTert  iarft    henford 

21  Ac  ny  bu  belt  wedy  hyny  hyt 

319  16  kynuHaO     .     .     .     .     y  lu  a  mynet  hyt  yn  rudlan.     Ac 

29  y  kitiaOd  y  freinc     ||  1.  33,  Hogeu.     A     ...     yd  he- 

320  4  ap  owein  wan  drOy     ||  1.  23,  o  dir  idaO  yg- 
5  y  Kas  y  prydyd  goreu     ||  1.  12,  yftrat  tywi 

321  2  at  y   brenhin    y  venegi  hyny.    ac  ny  mynaOd  y    brenhin 

beri  iaOn 

322  8  Orth  yr  vfydyon     ||  1.  11,  y  6ydua  yn  eglOys 
13  ItyOelyn  ap  MadaOc  y  vab. 

15  ygkatOryaeth  [yjOein  gOyned     |1  1.  17,  o  wicOm 

323  1  ar  gelynyon  a  ymladaffant  ar  fo 
12  ftywarch  y  Gyr    ||  1.  24,  ae  Uofgi 

25  ar  y  flemhiffeit    ||  1.  32,  cafteli  aoedynt 

324  11  y  gyt  ac  Oynt.     Ac 

325  2  kaer  aber  dyuij     1|  1.  32,  k.  einaOn  yr  hon  a 

15  gdrthladdyt  diermit  vab  mOrthach 

326  11  diermit  vab  murdarth 

30  y  lias  a  chledyfeu  ar  diwed  y  offeren. 
32  rickert  iarft  ftriftig 

327  5  dinas  a  elOir  ferna    ||  1.  14,  anuon  y  lythyreu 

328  3  drOy  adaO  ^daO  drychan     ||  1.  19,  ac  y  delis  robert 

329  14  yr  brenhin  yn  ol  kymryt  meirych.     A 

16  -  geint  or  rei  a  etholef .  A  dywedut  nat  yr  bot 
28  gOedy  dyuot  gOyl  galixtus 

30  yfgynu  y  ttogeu  aoruc.     j]  1.  31,  Ac  o  achaOs 

330  3  y  dir  ^werdon.  ac  yno  y  trigya6d  ef  y   gayaf    hOnO    heb 

vrneuthur  argywed  y  wyr  iwerdon.     Y 
24  y  kyfai-[u]u  wyr  ifartt  briftaO  ac  ef  ar  y  for  \sic\ 

*  Milo  is  written  over  meibon  in  original  hand. 

■f  The  ff  are  of  a  hybrid  form  and  may  be  read  ff.     Peniarth  MS.  20 
reads  roffer. 

J  "  teiui  "  is  written  over  "  dyui,"  and  both  are,  apparently',  in  the  same  hand. 


BRUT   Y   TYWYSSOGION.  61 

Page.    Line. 

331  3  kyfarrhafel.     ||  1.  5,  a  dores  kageu  y 

332  2  a  haedu  ketymdeithaff  y  brenhin  a  vei   vOy.     Ac  val  y 

gaitei  yr  brenhin  ymdiref  [sic]  y  rys  a  vei  vOy 

8  y  brenhined  yn  amryflbn 

30  gaer  llion  wedy    hyny.     Ac    yqa    o    deiffyfyt    gyrch     a 

gOei-efgyn  y  freinc  gaer  ttion  ac  y  gyi-- 

333  2  ac  y  kadarnhaaOd  myOn     ||  1.  6,  or  achaOf  honno 

18  Y  gOr  yd  oed  yna  yn  briaOt  gantaO  61aduf  6haer 

334  8  amryfaelon  genedloed  gerd  arweft 

336  3  V rat  a  thOyti:  ygarec  oua.     Ac 

337  13  gaerOyffalem     ||  1.  15,  oed  ar  helO 

338  5  yftrat  meuruc  6y  vra()t 

20  y  kymhyd«u  opop  tu.     ||  1.  32,  a  helmein  a 

339  10  a  chyt  ac  ef     ||  340,  1.  13,  megys  baed  yn  whernu  neii 
342       3  y  doeth  y  faeffon  yn  ftawen  drach- 

27  aber  teiui  aSwed  hoH  kymry 

344  14  Kanyf  meibon  grufiud  y  vraOt 

345  21  feuan  vrenhin 

346  1  o  pop  uerth  a  rodafant 

16  A  gruffud  ap  kadOgan  pen 

347  2  y  peruedwlat  ae  da  hyt  ymynyd 

348  3  rys  y  Knoed  y  gyt  ae  kedernit 
13  yn  mynet  at  y  brenhin 

349  3  ar  farafcinyeit  ac  or  farafinyeit  yny  vrOydyr 

9  pap  y  trydyd  y  tri    ||  1.  17,  gyneu  ae  kyuoetheu 
26  A  gorcbymun  vdunt  beri  y  rys 

350  2  faOcoc  fynylkal     j|  11.  12-13,  omit  aorue  rys  gryc 
20  marchogyon  y  ymlad  ac  Oynt 

22  y  prynhaOn  y  dalu  y  caftett 

351  14  a  diruaOr  amylder 

16  ymaruott  ac  ef  a  Jaril  flandrys 

353  12  a  anreithaffant  ac  arberth  dyfet*  ar  maen  clochade 

19  kadO  y  caftett  yny  erbyn 

354  5  y  kymheftaOd  y  trydyd 

355  31  ar  fartraffeu  gantunt  a  chrafter  yr  aruoft 

356  16  a  phan  gigleu  Jeuan  vrenhin 

31  Ac  y  cladOyt  ygkaer  oragon  ac  y  cladOyt  yn  ymyl  bed 

357  7  ychen  y  gau  gyt  aruoHwyr  henri 

26  vdvnt  y  erchi  yr  hyny  o  gytgygor  a  gytfynaflant  o  vn 
vryt  ac  o  vn  ewyitus  ar  gynuft  hoH  gedernit  y  gyt 
aruoSwjnr  y  gyt  y  vynet  y  nerthhau  |  y  cafteitwyr 

31  yn  aruaOc  varaOo  lu 

358  6  aerua  ar  y  freinc 

IS  aOnaeth  rodi  rydit  yr  bobyl 
29  0  damwein  y  kymu  reinalt 

359  28  ugein  gOyftyl  o  ros  aphenuro  or  rei  bonhedieca  ar  dalu, 

ida6.     Mil  o  vorceu 

360  8  mordOyaOd  hyt  yn  freinc     ||  1.  27,  damietta 

361  6  uarOolaeth  ar  y  bobyl  yny  dinas 
10  y  cre6yt  ar  efcyb 

362  16  hyny  y  llithraOd  [sic]  rys  Jeuanc 

34  onadunt.     ac   yna   y  doeth   y  faralineit   vdunt    a    Had 
Rawer  onadunt.     ac  yna  keithiwaO 

*  A  line  is  drawn  through  ac  arberth  dyfet,  but  the  ink  is  paler. 


62  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  116. 


J'aKe.     Inne. 


363     16  a  diruaOr  lyngef  y  myOn  yr  tir 

365  31  O  dyna  o  achaOs  teruyfgeu  a  vagyflit  y  rOg 

366  33  aber  mynyO     ||  1.  16,  efcob  Han  ely6y 

367  30  ymynachlaOc     ||  1.  34,  baer  ryagon 

369  28  y  geiffaO  y  gan  vrenhin  y  freinc 

370  31  ranaffant  y  kyuoeth  y  rygtunt  yn  deu 

371  25  keifir  ynyayales  y  vanachlaOc 

27  Ac  y  cauas  rys  rys  vychan 

372  27  ar  tei  kyfagos  yr  avonydd 

374  16  o  gaer  riOyn  gan  y  pap 

375  23  aphadric  dyfaOs 

376  7  gCireic  yrys  arglOyd  ryf  ap  rys 

28  fon  yftrong  ^euanc  aoed  vaeli  yna 

377  1  llofges  ^on  yftrang  yr  yfcubaOr  o  achaOs 
19  Hoegyr  .  ae  deu  vab  a  brenhin 

378  20  nof  Oyl  Jeuan  thomas 

21  yna  rac  eiffeu     ....    drOy  gael  yn  iach  y  heneideu. 
24  Ac  yna  y  kynuftaOd   yr  ]fai-ft  diruaOr  lu    ac  y  kyrchaOd 
lundein  a  thrOy  dwylt  y  bOrdeiffeit  yr  eniftod  y  dref. 


The  scribe  of  MS.  116  does  not,  as  a  rule,  double  the  consonants 
-where  the  accent  falls ;  he  generally  uses  /  to  denote  ff  initially,  and 
frequentlyjf  to  denote /finally;  wis  used  initially — hardly  ever  m,  as 
in  the  Bed  Book  ;  initial  b,  g,  and  m  are  correctly  dropjDed  after 
j/n  as  ymlaen,  ygwyned,*  ymon  ;  k,  p,  t  are  frequently  mutated  after 
1/n  as  yghasteft,*  ymhen,  ynhal ;  it  is,  therefore,  quite  clear  that  in  such 
<3ases  the  use  of  the  radical  was  purely  artificial  in  the  xivth,  and  even 
the  xinth  centuries ;  h  followed  by  w  is,  as  a  rule,  not  gutturalised,  as 
hwech,  hwaer ;  h  is  occasionally  maltreated,  as  in  henw,  henniK. 


MS.  117.  Geoffrey  or  Mos^houth's  Historia  Begum  Britannice, 
from  the  Gloddaeth  Library  :  vellum ;  6f  x  4f  inches,  having  27  lines 
to  the  page,  with  large  initials  in  red  and  blue  alternately  ;  written  in  the 
last  quarter  of  the  xinth  century  by  the  same  scribe  that  wrote  the 
Book  of  Taliessin  (see  Facsitnile,  Oxford,  1896),  &c. :  the  order  of 
pages  has  been  deranged  by  the  binder  and  now  run  :  i-138  ;  2  pages 
of  pedigrees;  139-154;  235-266,;  155-234;  pages  1-266  and  2  pages 
«f  pedigrees  are  in  the  same  hand ;  imperfect  at  the  end ;  bound  in 
oak  boards  covered  with  leather.  According  to  a  statement  on 
j)age  150 — "  Llyma  lyvyr  davydd  ap  llewelyn  ap  Ry[B]  vychan  pie 
bynac  yr  el  ac  y  may  yn[do]  bedeir  dalen  a  faith  vgein  o  ddail,"  we 
should  have  288  pages,  or  ten  leaves  more.  It  contains  the  arras  and 
signature  of  "  Tho.  Mostyn,  1744,  No.  94."  No.  "(10)"  is  also  on  the 
rsame  paper  folio. 

The  text  of  this  MS.  belongs  to  the  Vaticinium  Version  i  pp.  1-154, 
1.  7,  are  practically  in  verbal  agreement  with  the  text  of  Eed  Book  op 

"  The  modern  and  irrational  habit  of  doubling  ng  where  unaccented,  as  yng 
mghasteli,  yng  Ngwynedd,  is  unknown  to  our  MSS.  down  to  1700,  or  later. 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   117.  63 

Hergest,  Vol.  ii.,pp.  40-155,1.  26  (Oxford,  1890)  ;  while  pp.  154,1.  8, 
to  266  agree  with  the  text  of  the  Dingeslow  Court  Geoffrey,  Hengwrt 
MSS.  536  and  27  &c.  This  part  is  briefer  and  belongs  to  an  older 
version  than  the  Red  Book  text — it  begins :  Ac  yna  guedy  daruot  y 
vyrdin  traethu  or  anodun  profRiydolaetheu  hyn  .  ryuedu  awnaeth  paOb  yn 
uaOr  or  ae  guarandaOlTei  meint  gordyfynder  yfynhOyr  aedoethineb.  Ac 
yn  u6y  no  neb  moli  aoruc  gOrtheyrn  gordyfynder  yfynh6yr  aeOybot 
aedoethinab.  Kany  chlyOffei  ef  yny  oes  ac  naf  gOeliei  adywetei  yryO 
doethinab  hCnnO.  Ac  Orth  hynny  erchi  aoruc  y  vyrdin  menegi  ida6  py 
diwed  ae  dyccei  ef  of  gOypei.  Ac  yna  y  dywa6t  myrdin  .  ffo  heb  ef  rac 
tan  meibon  cuftenhin  of  gelly.  Kanyf  ar  a6r  hon  ymaent  yn  paratoi  eu 
Uogeu.  Yr  aOr  hon  ymaent  yn  ymada6  athraeth  llydaO.  Ac  yr  aOr  hon 
y  maent  yn  lledu  eu  hOylyeu  ar  y  mor  yn  kyrchu  ynys  prydein  .  .  . 
ends  :  Ac  ar  hynny  yrodes  genhyat  y[peanda]  ....  (R.  B.,  ii., 
p.  251,  11.  1-2). 

II.  The  pedigree  of  (a.)  BJywelyn  ap  Gruffyd.  Mab  ILywelyn.  m. 
^oruerth.  m.  Owein.  si.  gruffyd.  m.  kynan.  m.  fago.  m.  ^dwal  voel.  ii. 
AnaraOt.  m.  Rodri.  m.  Meruyn  vrych.  gOr  priaOt.  Efyllt.  verch  kynan 
TindaethOy.  mab  Bodri  maelOynaOc.  m.  ]fdwal  iOrch.  m.  Katwaladyr 
vendigeit.  m.  KatwallaOn.  m.  Katuan.  m.  jfago.  m.  beli.  m.  Run.  m. 
MaelgOn  gOyned.  herwyd  dull  y  heird.  Namyn  o  herioyd  yr  Jstoria 
Beli  oed  vab  y  Eynyan  MaeigOn  .  y  gOr  uu  petweryd  brenhin  ar  ynys 
prydein  gOedy  Arthur.  &c.  &c.  is  traced  back  to  "  Adam  son  of  God." 

h.  Rys.  M.  Gruffyd.  m.  Rys.  m.  TeOdOr.  m.  kadell.  m.  Eynou.  m. 
Owein.  M.  hywel  da  ii.  kadell.  m.  Eodri  maOr.  m.  Meruyn  vrych. 

c.  MadaOc.  Mab  Maredud.  m.  bledyn.  m.  kynuyn.  m.  Gwerftan.  m. 
Gwyn.  M.  Gweithuoet.  m.  Gwinua.  m.  Gwinano.  bai-bfueh.  m.  lies. 
Ila6ueda0c.  m.  Corrnjduufas.  m.  Eorf.  m.  Kaena6e.  m.  TegonOy.  m. 
Tron.  M.  Gwineu  deu  ureudOyt.  m.  howyrnleu.  m.  hoO  |  dec.  m.  Run 
Rudpaladyr.  m.  llara.  M.  kafnar  wledic.  m.  GloyO  gOlat  lydan.  m. 
Tenewan.  m.  ILud.  m.  beli  ri-aOr. 

d.  KatwallaOn.  a  howel  ac  Eynon  Glut.  m.  MadaOc.  m.  Jdnerth.  m. 
kadogaOn.  m.  Elyftan.  m.  kuhelyn.  m.  Merchider.  m.  Anor.  m.  Senerys. 
M.  kad6r.  m.  kador  gCienweun.  m.  ^fdnerth.  m.  Joruerth  hjruZaOr.  m. 
Tegony.  m.  Teon.  m.  Gwineu  deu  vreudOyt. 

e.  Arthur,  m.  Vthyr.  m.  kuftenhin.  m.  kynua6r.  m.  Tutwal.  m. 
MoruaOr.  m.  Eudaf.  m.  kad6r.  m.  kynan.  m.  karadaOc.  m.  Bran.  m.  ILyr 
lletieith 

/.  Nonn  mam  dewi  oed  verch  y  Anna  verch  vthyr  pendragon.  Mam 
Anna  oed  verch  Eigyr  Anla6d  vrjedic. 

g.  Eight  lines  follow  here,  Liut  the  ink  has  completely  faded  away. 
The  first  word  appears  to  be  Bruto,  and  the  word  "  infula  "  occurs  in 
line  4. 


MS.  129.  Poetry,  Peoterbs,  Proverbial  Triads,  etc.,  from 
the  Gloddaeth  Library  :  Faper ;  8  X  5|  inches  ;  328  pages ;  mostly 
xvith  century ;  bound  in  whit©  vellum.  This  is  a  composite  MS., 
containing  several  hands ;  part  aeems  to  be  in  the  hand  of  Richard 
Mostyn  and  to  have  been  written  in  1574.  The  whole  might  be  his 
common-place  book  in  which  others  occasionally  wrote  during  his  life 
and  afterwards  (for  some  parts  belong  to  the  xviith  century),  Gr: 
Hiraethog  compiled  his  collection  of  Proverbs,  now  in  the  Peniarth. 
Library  (No.  162),  for  this  R.  Mostyn,  whoee  love  of  such  literature 


64  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   129. 

this  MS.  illustrates.  '  Richard  Moston  thonger  oweth  this  booke  or  pie  y 
lyver  yma'  (pp.  5  &  32)  ;  Richard  Mostyn  a  sgrivenoth  hwn  oed  yr  argh 
1574  (pp.  71,  100);  'R.  M.  pie-rllyver  yma  A.D.  1574'  (p.  102); 
R.  M.  me  possidet  (103).  The  name  of  Gregorie  Mostyn  appears  on 
pp.  249  &  266. 

Page  1.  Table  of  Contents  of  folios  3-76. 

3  O  heavenlye  god  o  father  deare,  a 
Cast  down  thy  tender  eye 

in  heaven  a  dwelling  place.  Anon 

b.  XXX  dayes  hath  September,  Aprill,  June,   and   November,  b 

ffebruarie  hath  xxviii  and  all  the  rest  hath  xxxj .  / 

c.  George    hope  was    batised  xxvth  of  Aprill the 

syxtene.  / 

Ann  davies  was  buried  Aprill     .     .  .27  year.  / 

4  Or  clippan  trvan  pob  trad  &c c 

b.  Yn  Eneth  ith  welais  yn  wnnach  no  neb  &c.  d 

c.  Ymavel  mewn  Cornel  mal  ki  ameyn  ael  &c.  e 

d.  wrth  rodio  draw  dvwyn  y  goydwig  &c.  / 
c.  Pop  fFrwyth  pob  tylwyth  pob  tevlv  pob  dewr  &c.  g 
f.  A  garo  i  siad  ai  gorin  yn  gyva  &c.  k 

5  gardd  gangoc  gwiwgloc  ageglwwys  &c.  i 

h.      Pe  bawn  marchawc  hawc  hygar  iawn  evrglod     .     .     .     .    k 
na  brawd  na  neb  ar  adwen  / 

6  ir  dim  a  gaffwy  o  dda  ir  tiroydd     ....  I 
am  eirae  per  mi  a  wn  pwy 

7  kymer  gyllell  o  gelli  or  ddager  &c.  m 

b.  Tvr  i  I  n  /  dilid  gwen  o  bryd  Ian  heb  rol  &c.  » 

c.  pen  ddelwn  ar  dalwrn  yn  wr  doeth  heb  arian  o 
fom  bwrid  i  yn  anoith 

pen  gawn  bwn  o  gyvoeth 
myfi  oedd  y  digri  doeth  / 

8  gwae  ni  /  r  /  beirdd  genu  air  y  byd     ....  p 
mwy  0  avr  siwrl  ymhwrs  sion                            John  Tvdvr 

12  dyro  di  dy  dda  drwy  ervyn  gobaith  &c.  g 

b.  Rodded  drwy  gired  ddyn  tragwrol  byth  &c.  r 

c.  Rodded  dyn  beth  or  reiddo  er  iessv  &c.  s 

d.  Na  ddyro  dy  dda  yn  ddiwres  ar  lynn  &c.  r 

e.  Glaw  bras  niwl  addas  ni  Ivddia  vy  hynt  « 
nar  oerwynt  nar  eira 

na  dwr  nev  dan  i  dwrn  da 
im  lie  dim  nim  Uvdd  yma.  / 

/.       duv  im  tad  duw  im  keidwad  duw  im  ko  duw  im  gobaith  &c.  v 

13  Kingor  y  driw  ir  mab  oedd  n  hary.  j 

fal  i  royddwn  n  rrodio to 

hi  a  fyn  i  fFris  n  ddwbwl.  /  Anon 

16  y  dryw  bach  taw  ath  fvstledd x 

a  does  yn  iach  dros  heno  /  :  Anon 

17  Echnos  breiddwyd  a  welwn « 

ag  yn  llaweu  ddigon 


MOSTYN  MANUSCBIPT   129. 


65 


18  Yf  hap  may  auswere  hope  a 
and  hope  may  haue  his  hyre 

J  seeke  &  cannot  haue. 

b.      He  keisia  ka  fy  nakav  b 

He  ka  ni  fynna  finnav 

19  English  proverbs  in  rhyme 

a.      loth  to  depart  byds  oft  fare  well  &c.  (p.  229).  c 

g.      be  not  two  nigarde  nor  be  not  two  ifree  d 

ffor  measure  is  ti-easure  in  euery  degree  :  / 

h.      God  is  a  subsance  for  ever  durable e 

shall  after  this  lytf  of  better  lyflf  be  sure :  / 

20  Certain  sayings  of  Greek  Philosophers  in  English 

21  Mis  lonor  myglid  dyffrin f 

Keissied  pawb  weli  diddos  (cf.  99  infra)  Anon 

25       Serch  ar  vn  ferch  ir  anfodd  g 

finne  agaif  a  fvnno  gwen  /  Sion  Tvdvr 

27  Y  ddyn  fwin  o  ddawn  fonedd h 

pared  vn  euraid  fi  n  iach  Tvdvr  alet 

28  Onyth  gaf  kvria  nid  gwiw  karv  bith i 

a  di  vrdde  ond  o  darthiad  :  /  Anon 

29  Ba  ynill  o  bai  nnerch k 

derfyd  wen  dorfod  vnwaith  Gruff :  ap  Jeuan 

31  Y  lleian  ddoeth  ai  lliw  n  dda     ....  I 
fe  mvn  a  nef  im  enaid                                     Bedo  hrwynllis 

32  myn  mair  bena  mia  fenacha m 

oedd  yn  gwrando  ar  i  Ivnio 

33  dyn  wyf  n  kerdded  y  nos n 

dyn  deg  naw[dd]  duw  n  dy  gilch  Dd.  ap  Edmonde 

36       Mai  addaw  oed  hoed  hydferch     .     .     ^^ .     .  o 

a  diawl  i  goed  el  ai  gwr  John   Tvder 

38       Y  ddav  vab  a  haedde  vawl p 

ai  karo  a  Gaffo  gwen  John  Tvder 

41       Ystvdiwn  yn  wastadwell q 

gen  ddvw  lie  gwenai  r  yddewyd  Lewes  powell 

44       Dis  yw  r  /  byd  os  arbedwn r 

ar  ddim  mwv  ond  ar  dduw  mawr  John  Tvdur 

47       Y  fyn  bach  fwyn  i  bvchedd * 

a  bar  duw  y  bo  r  /  dial  /  A?ion 

49       Vyng  win  ov  farch  fwng  nwyfvs t 

yn  kynal  ar  Ian  konwy  John  Tvdur 

53       He  gwn  gael  oil  i  gann  gwlad u 

nos  iw  fed  ynn  safadwy  Gruff:  hiraethoc 

55       Nos  da  foi  /  r  /  fernos  dawel v 

na  chysgwn  tra  fyddwn  fy  w  dd  lloyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr  : 

57       dwyn  klwyf  yddwyf  am  y  ddyn w 

och  gann  ddiiw  gwynn  na  fynn  fi  j  dd  j  ap  gwilym 

68       duw  dug  wr  odidoc  oedd x 

o  rann  duw  ir  enaid  el  WiU\am  llyn 

e     87130.  K 


6G  ikoSTYN  MAiS'USCRIPT  129. 

62       Gwaer  vndyn  lieb  gowiryndeb " 

garv  mab  /  n  /  gowir  mwy  /  Sion  Tvdvr  / 

64       Mae  kvr  ym  hob  kwr  itn  liais * 

fy  nvw  fv  hon  fy  nehenydd  Anon 

66       Kwrs  ifank  kerais  hoywferch'    '.'>'..     j    .  c 

gweithio  a  gobeithio  bvn  /  ,Anon 

68       Pen  ereaddwyd  nefoedd  gint     .....  ^ 

rhai  oi  war&fnt  efo  / 

Eychard  mo?tyii  a.sgrivfjoothhwn.oed  yr  arglwydd  1574>AAo  B'  Eliz, 
xiiij'°. 

71  lie  tnegir  yry'derin  e 
llyna  fith  y"flwyn  a'fin. 

72  Kam  i-Wte'yiii  gymhenv  drwy  gynwr     ....  / 
blin  yw  mynd.  heb  laa  i  modd              ,         . 

74  with  weled  liQWyni^d  ■  mevnael  wich  evrwallt    ...  g 
vawaith  agaf  ai  nath  gaid  / 

75  Yr  methv  r  Uygad  kair  m-WA'the  ar  llaw  &c.     .     .  h 
b.      Myu  y  Ci'wys  «v  ar  y  dail  gwiail  he  he  &c.  » 

76  but  I  whose  faith  &  troth  thou  hast h 

■  or.  els  increase  my  wo/'''   '         ' 

77  I  grant  I  have  offend  ofEende / 

clirist  briuge  vs  all  of  his  mercye  me?-cye  fjinis  j 

78  The  instruction  of  a  christen  women  : 

Mae  kvr  a  dolvr  wedi  eiliaw  /  n  /  fais in 

garv  gwen  ir  i  gwra.  /  Anon 

79  Y  karw  dvank-  yr  afwych n 

dre  vo  gwn  wrth  dref  a  gwal  /  John  Tvdvr 

■83  MariLmad  Rys  ap  John  o  lynn  nedd:'/ 

Pant  hyr  na  welyr  ond  nos     .....  o 

swydd.  gwl»|i  sy  heddew  gloff 

a  swydd  eglwys  sydd  ogloff  .... 

o  liydd  vyth  wrth  yen  bodd  to/  jfe7-'  vynglwyd 

86       Panddangoso  rrw  dro  rrydd p 

a  llaw  fair  dros  y  llafvrwr  Jolo  goch 

89  Y  bardd  iowndrefn  bwrdd  windravl q 

sion  tvd''  pa  sant  ydwyd     ..... 

Ehys  /  n'/  Kwr  prys'dop  /  r  /  hod  Wiliam  Kyln^wal 

92       Y  bardd  gwyn  ebrwydd  ganiad r 

Wiliam  kynwal  inae  kenyd 

awen  gwell  no  nyni  i  gyd 

i  gyd  i  rof  gida  rys  John  tyd' 

90  yf  that  in  vertu  y"  take  eny  payne  * 
the  payne  departeth,  but  vertues  remayne 

yf  that  thou  mayst  not  thou  travayle  to  gett 
The  things  that  cause  a  quiet  lyff  wrytten  by  marsyall 

97       My  frende  the  thinges  y'  do  attayne t 

yf  you  can  do  better,  my  frendes  set  it  forth 
yf  not,  use  this,  &  take  it  well  in  worthe ;  / 

Page  98.  Be  it  kngwcyi  \nto  all  men  by  thes  presents  y*  I  ^ohn  wood 
ol    meladew owe   to  Eic:   iiicston  y'^  fomc   of  thi'cc  pounds 


MOSTYN  MANTJSCEIPT   129.  67 

....     the  thii'de  day  of  februarye  in  the  eighteenth  year  of  the 

Steigne  of Elizabeth  &c.  ..... 

b.  gwych  y  gwuaeth  evrich  gwnethvried  difai  &o.  a 

c.  gad  dy  saisneg  feg  ir  ffallt  ar  ehwedel  &c.  ,              b 
99    .  mis  ionor  myglyd  dyfFiijfn     !'..,.,            .  c 

a  dderfydd  y  nydd  a  nos  {cf.  21  supra) 

101  Aperte  cwm  est  mala  mulier  &c.  d 

b.  An  Englyn  to  the  earthquake  of  1634  e 

c.  Arian  a  drwsian  pob  dy^as^rch  byd  &c.  f 

d.  Gelyn  gwydd  Iwyd  ar  y  Ian  ywr  Uwyuog  &c  ^   ,.        ^     g 

e.  Ewy  fal  ir  wy,  yrwin  yn  gvl  ,&'(i.  '    h 

102  duw  ai  gwir  magwir  ntiaith  iw  ghalpn  &c.  .  i 

b.  "  ir  pen  las  gward'Wg  mbii "  1518.  '  k 

c.  mil  a  phedwar  cant  heb  ddim  mwy  &c,  / 

d.  Bewtye  is  a  bloson  y*  vadeth  away  m 
and  vertue  is  a  fflowr  y'  doth  not  decaye 

yf  bewtye  &  vertue  in  one  woman  be 

yf  she  want  a  housband  then  send  her  to  me 

Jiic :  Moston  j  Ric  :  Mostyn 
«.       duw  mynyeli  yr  wy  yn  dymvnaw  ,  n 

fy  mvn  fy  mod  rrwiig  ych  dwylaw 
J.       Richarde  Mostytf  pier   llyver  }'ma     Anno  d'ni  1 574  A'o  RR'   Eliz  : 
xiiij'°. 

g.      nid  oes  or  byd  ond  dymchwelyd :  /  o 

10.3       A  recipe  "  against  the  plagg "  &c.  p 

104  This  ffor  your  sake  have  if  wrought  &c.  q 

b.  ]f  am  as  styll  as  the  stonne  &c.  r 

c.  Jn  you  my  choyce  J  do  reioyce  &c.  &c.  &c.  * 

d.  nee  scio  quid  sit  amor,  nee  amo,  &c.  t 

105  dyn  gwan  wyf  dan  g«yn  ofvud u 

del  y  mvn  yn  dal  i  mi  Simivnt  fi/chan 

106  Y  praffgry  .  dd  .  or  prif  weithgreft  &c.  v 

107  digara  y  gwnaeth  duw  ai  gymwyll w 

mab  brenin  mwy  an  prynno       '  dd  ddv  o  hiraddvc 

110  A  certayne  man  two  sonnes  he  had x 

they  made  good  chere  /Jinis  / 

111  doe  kenes  y  mynwes  mor t/ 

S'  Risiart  ai  ddart  o  ddvr 

bwckle  ydych  benadvr     .... 

avr  gleddav  mawr  arglwydd  men  '  Klidro 

114       Mi  a  wn  glod  i  person  glan  z 

S''.  EJis  .0  Ian  elian ' 

my  line  kaer  am  y  ki  /  Robert  Klidro 

,117       Aeth  yn  wan  darn  or  dyrnas  aa 

klidro  ail  iago  alas 

efo  rodiai  yn  brydydd 

koesfain  i  degaingle  bob  dydd 

medrvs  mewn  llys  a  Han 

a  difvr  yn  y  dafam 

ai  kythrel  o  ifalster  ffol 

ai  Haw  iddew  ai  lladdodd     .... 

gore  krythor  yughymrv 

gore  bardd  a  fydd  ac  a  fv  /  Sioti  tudvr 

E   2 


68  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT    129. 

120  Kowydd  i  ofyn  liwch  :  j  ■ 

Pwy  iwr  dvr  yn  pyrhavr  dewredd T 

yw  dai  r  .  hawc  dyro  .  r  .  hwch  Sion  tudvr 

123    Owdwl  Ric  :   Johnes  o  fvellt 

Rhisiart  sion  grevlon  gwroliaeth  lloegr  oil b 

enioes  i  risiart  nas  arhoesodd  /  Sion   Tvdr 

127       Gvttvii  ddv  felin  ddifoliant  was  kvl c 

gvttin  war  kettin  yn  oer  i  kottech  /  Anon 

132       Tro  yma  dy  wyneb  farglwydd  dduw d 

ath  hoU  arch  (?)  ymwlyn  Anon 

134  T  fercli  ar  ael  wine  fain e 

dduw  n  fach  na  cheisiwn  ddyn  fyth  Robert  leia . 

135  O  ddvw  ond  trist  oedd  nad  rhydd f 

i  dig  ym  ai  dwc  ymaith  Gruff:  ap  Jeuan 

138       Am  wawr  Ian  yv  wyf  mor  lew g 

yn  weddw  ith  gair  vnwaith  gwen  Gruff:  ap  Jeuan 

140       Serch  a  Roes  ar  chwaer  esyllt h 

farnv  y  myw  ue  farw  yn  y  man  / 

143  Marwnad  dd  ap  Edmwnd 

ILaw  dduw  a  f v  .  u  .  lladd  awen i 

Roi  paradwys  ir  prydydd  Tvdr  Aled 

146       Merddyn  wyllt  am  Rvw  ddyn  wyf k- 

ai  chael  o  fodd  i  chalon  ff<in,  dyfi 

148       O  ddvw  para  fyd  adaw t 

hwyr  ar  for  herwr  oi  fodd  dd  ap  Edmwnd 

150  Nid  nychdod  ond  gorfod  ag  eirferch  yraado     ....      m 
o  chei  y  fan  iacba  fi  / 

151  •  Mae  yn  kalyn  pob  dyn  bendigedig  duw  » 

dav  angel  an  hebig 
vn  nefol  deddfol  diddig 
ag  vn  yskymyn  dygin  dig 

b.  doeth  ywr  kristion  oda  yn  gyson  &c.  o 

c.  dwaid  im  ir  saufEraid  yn  ffraitb  orchest  &c.  p- 

d.  koilia  di  fardd  mae  da  kilio  rrag  y'  nod  &c.  q 

e.  fyng  balon  am  bron  am  bryd  am  henioes  &c.  r 

152  ^n  hope  J  hduld  my  whole  redresse s 

]fn  hope  J  will  cxcell  / 

b.       Endles  Joyfull  sport  per.Tianent t 

to  me  my  hart  restore  agayne 

163       Tenne  thousande  thanks  to  her  J  yeald « 

that  knoweth  yt  verey  well  / 

154  yr  gwrtaith  fowrdaith  ar  lafvrdvr  dol v 

fragv  a  halldv  a  hav.  / 

b.  Gwell  i  ddyn  anhydyn  anghradvs  taer w 

mae  n .  well  avr  mewn  He  arall  / 

c.  A  boro  i  egin  yn  buryd  or  gwraidd  &c.  (also  p.  263,  c.)    x 

155  Marwnad  Mrs.  Elin  Moston 

dydd  ebrwydd  dvodd   wybren « 

yr  vn  duw  ar  enaid  aeth.  /  'Rys  Rain  1SS2 


'     MOSTTN  MANUSCRTPT   129.  ^9 

159  Grwelais  pan  ydrrchais  draw  fanwylyd  &c.  a 
b.       Ny  cliaiff  dyn  ronvn  ond  a  rannode?  duw  &c.  b 

c.       ni  thariwn  oddiwrthych  na  thorri  ymddiddan  &c.  c 

160  K.  dros  Rys  grythor  i  ofyn  gwydd  i  lioht.  ap  R.  gyttin 

Robert  ap   Res  daklvs  don d 

bettai .  r  .  3'ch  f'oi  bettai  Rys  John  tvdr 

162  fo  gaifi  liaeli  drael  a  drelio  fytli  &c.  e 

b.  Pysgottwr  wy  yn  swr  mewn  bais  gwtta  &c.  J 

c.  Awn  a  hyn  kenin  yn  kinio  y  bore  &c.  ff 

d.  Latin  and  English  couplets.  h 

163  Y  brevddwyd    yma    a    welais  i  ar    noswil   santes  Iwsi    y 

12_  dydd  o  Jys  Raggvir  ac  yn  fyng  hwsc  mia  glwti 
niegis  lief  yn  de[^o]ngl  .  fymreiddwyd  .  a  ffen  godais 
'  mi  ascryvenais  S^c.j 

Am  fy  noswailh  or  gaya  i 

yn  fyng  well  yn  ysmula 

sy  n .  karv  duw  yn  i  galon./  Anon 

180  nid  tiflas  nid  kas  koeysswr  digllon k 

tynu  lyfV  oddi-tann  i  law./ 

181  Kyngor  y  bronv\_r]aith  i  tcr  oedd  yn  karv  7nerch./ 

Dowcli  yn  es  bendefigion I 

oni  welwi  dydi  eylwaith./ 

186  Or  clippan  Irvan  pob  trad  or  dynion  &c.  gr.  lloyd    m 

b.  or  brenin  haelwyn  hwilwaidd.  &c.  n 

c.  hai  gwn  hai  filgwn  hai  fytb  &c.  o 

187  mae  son  fal  tnoesen  ne  f'wy p 

trwy  ddvw  .  n  .  aer  potryddan  wen  Sion  tudr  151^ 

191  Kynghorion  doithion  [ 

na  amharclia  dy  dad  na  bigelydd  allawr q 

na  chais  gellwair  ath  gas 
.192  Koioydd  merch  odieth  ;  / 

dydd  da  ir  fercb  ar  did  avr  fawr r 

knot  ar  bawb  kana  yt  air  byth  /  Sion  tudr 

394  Anno  R'Eliz  29  .  Ao.  dni  ISij  .  / 

Jn  the  moneth  of  !fulie  the  wheat  chestr  hushell  for  22'  and  20* 
Comonlie  the  Bie  the  bushell  for  18  &  19'  the  barhe  for  17'  j" 
bnshell.  /  otes  a  hope  of  den'oighe  measure — 4'  C 

195  A  naeth  ne  draethid  yn  erbyn  merched  o  waith  homer 

Knawd   i  wraig  o  naturiaeth     .....  s 

ag  ai  dial  o  dan  amser  / 

197  Darfv  treythv  pob  tref  &c.  t 

h.      if  eny  man  desire  to  knowe « 

and  tome  him  to  a  better  end  / 

198  Y  da  a  feddo  yr  kybydd  v 
jv  hael  yr  heini  ai  rhydd  / 

b.      y  da  a  gynyllyr  a  digon  o  ailv  w 

fo  gwsg  eraill  yn  i  gwasgarv.  / 

£.      Na  chymer  brvder  heb  raid  &c.  x 

d.  Tri  ffeth  da  difedd  a  dyfan  &c.  y 

e.  Ni  chaifE  mab  ordderch  serth  som  &c.                                      g 

f.  Kefais  a  lewais  kaf  wylofain  hir  &c.  aa 


70  MOSTTN  MANUSCHIPT  129. 

199  Marwnad  Mr.  Firs  Mostin,  15~ig  / 

Duw  gwyn  arydd  da  i  gannyn     ......  a 

gwaed  yr  oen  i  gadw  .  r  .  enaid  fVilliam  llyti 

203       Olwen  gvlael  Ian  galon     ....  h 

darfv  i  wen  fwyn  derfin  foes.  /  Sion  tudr 

205  To  Yoyd  &  breake  the  ffleames  in  the  prest  &  stomacke :  c 

206  Y  Riain  wych  rry  wen  wyd d 

nath  gae  eiddig  ith  giddio.  /  Robin  ddv 

Page  207.  The  hope  of  wheat  at  denbighe  1587  sould  for  12"  &  13'  4''  (&  som 
for  20»  the  hope)  the  Rie  for  xj'  thoppe  the  barlie  for  x"  thop.  In  a  different  hand  r 
The  hope  of  wheate  at  Denhighe  for  22"  1597  The  hope  of  barlie  at  Denbigh  for 
18'  TJ"  1597     The  hope  of  [?  Tetojhes  15'  beanes  22". 

208       Y  ddyn  ag  avr  ddoe  yn  i  gwallt e 

at  garl  nad  dy  roi  gwen  Sion  tudr 

210       kynar  fydd  kanarfoddyd f 

ni  thyr  havl  vn  waith  ar  hon  dd  ap  gwilim 

212       tori  kan  oed  treio  konwy g 

garv  hon  agyrrv  iw  hanerch  John  ap  HoHl 

214       Awn  draw  ir  Uaa  yn  dri  Uv h 

wrth  rayd  im  Iienaid  Amen.  /  Lewes  morganwg 

217       Y  tad  ar  dychrevad  chwyrn i 

rrydd  ef  a  chwbwl  yn  rraid  Doctor  Jo.  Kent 

219  Wele  i  chwi  filgi  afaelgar  &c.  Tlio  :  Price  k 

220  Myddylio  am  vrddoli I 

wrth  rayd  ym  enaid'  Amen  :  /  S'  Jo :  leia 

222       Y  dyn  ai  frath  dan  i  fron m, 

archa  vn  arch  ir  Enaid.  /  Lewes  morgavnwg 

224       Or  vn  bri  ar  yn  bowyd «■ 

a  Def  -a  thrigaredd  i  ni  Doctor  John  Kent 

227  Kowydd  i  feibion  Jeuan  vychan  ap  Jeuan  ap  adda  oedd 
ynghastell  y  drewen  yngharchar  drwy  roi  o  Ric:  trevor 
ap  Ed:  ap  dd  ap  eddn  gam.  / 

dvw  a  roes  nyd  oedd  resyn o 

Amen  heb  gynddrygedd  mwy.  /       Rys  goy  o  lyn  dyferdwy 

229  English  and  Latin  proverbial  couplets.  p 

230  Edrech  yngharad  daw  odre  fyng  wallt  &c.  (f 

b.  O  chollais  yngharad  wich  anian  &c.  r 

c.  Syr  trystan  da  iw  damkan  di  &c.  » 

d.  da  oedd  fair  avr  evraid  agarwn  &c.  t 

e.  nid  ky^ymaeth  helaith  hoiwlan  &c.  .  « 
/.  di  hvlbyl  ond  antvr  fydd  dyn  yn  ifank  &c.  » 

231  pechod  poen  waskod  pen  wisker  &c.  m 

b.  na  ddatwrdd  ar  fwrdd  fel  oferddyn  &c.  a? 

c.  Rhinweddav  llysiav  ai  llvn  ai  graddav  &c.  (&  p.  266)  y 

d.  sethrir  dyrmyger  drem  agwedd  llysiav  &c.  (&  p.  266)  2 

e.  yraavel  mewn  Cornel  mal  ki  Ac.  aa 
231  Sangwyn  Complexion  :  betokeneth  Pleasure  &c.  bh 


JTOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   129,.  71 

233  Karol  o  waith  Robt:  gr:  ap  howell  o  rondnt  a  fv  farw  7jn 
'  •  .  >     xlvn  or  koi-nwyd 

Onrt  oedd  drvan  ,yr  yraddithan     .....  a 

llawer  gwas  glaii  di  ddoeth  allan.  / 

234  faiiwyl  gyfyrder  odydych  was  glan, b 

chwe  ellech  pea  meuoch  fyngolling  yn  rhedd 

236.  This  page  is  blank. 

237  Na  fyn  was  dyrras  heb  doriad  ith  feddv  &c.  &c.  c 

238  shall  distance  part  our  loue  &c.  d 
b.       valient  Hercnles  was  commanded  by  omphalie  &c.  &c.        e 

239  Englynion  to  Tobacco  and  lubricity  in  later  hand. 

(dail  gwern,  Coed  vffern,  Ciw  diffaith,  baw  Coed  &c.)  / 

240  Y  grynva  addiva  ddyn g 

myned  heb  ffon  ir  ffron  frv.  / 

b.       (kymer  ddyske  dod  ddysk  dwad  dda  &c.)  h 

241  Derhebion:   Nid    Ergys    bwyd    end    i    brofi :    nid  esmwyth 

ymgyflogi : nid  twyll  twyllo  twyllwr 

242  Khy  dyn  a  dyr  :  rhy  lawn  a  gill  Ac.  i 

b.  Serch.  wylo.  gwilio  o  gilwc  gv,ryl  ameg  &c.  k 

c.  Yr  hvn  ar  gwaid  ling  medd  yr  hen  wr  doeth  &e.  / 
'    '    d.    '  fEei  or  byd  i  gyd  am  gododd  o  brydd  &c.                              m 

e.       Y  devben  a  fv  ddiball  im  enuyd  &c.  n 

243  Doethineb  gwir  dothion.  j 

Tri  ffeth   ni  bydd  bir  bara  .  Ehydig   heb  vrddas,  kenernit  heb 

gydwybod  .  hir  bechod  heb  ydyfeirwch ends  :  Tri 

kadarn  byd  :  arglwydd  :  drvd  a  diddim  :  / 

244  Y  ixiv  Gwell .  /  Gwell  gwr  oi  berchi  .     ,     .     .     .      gwell 
goddef  no  gofal .  /, 

b.  Kof  a  llythyr : .  Uythyr  a  gewdw     .....  o 

knawd  gwarth  o  fynich  gynllwyn  :  / 

,.   246       Mae  anras  dywas.  ar  darren  ne  wb p 

ai  yr  hen  ffydd  ai  r  .  newydd  ir  nef  .  /  {also  p.  273) 

247  Dyrhebion  .  j  Eira  mynydd  blin  iwr  byd  q 

ni  wvr  neb  ddamwayn  golvd 

ydiwr  ifank  digynor  / 

250  Ni  fyn  merch  nai  hannerch  nai  hen wi  &c. (a/so  p.  317,  b.)   r 

251  Kat  ferch  ierwerth  ddyn  gerth  gain s 

kymen  yn  gofvn  kymod  /  dd:  ap  gwiliin 

252  Svr  wy  dy  biban  heb  svt  &c,  Dd.  ap  Edmwnde   t 


b.       Pob  Uais  a  gerais  pob  gwirion  &c.  W  llin 


u 


c.  fal  gwydday  yn  bynn'ay  ne  bevnod  &c.  JEd:  Mailor  v 

d.  pibydd  yn  magv  paban  brat  &c.  Robt.  Clidro  to 

e.  03  koleth  geneth .  gonell  goeg  anian  &c,  x 

263       Pen  oedd  saint  senedd  frevi  y 

ar  ol  bregeth  ddewi 

yn  dwyn  o  bob  kyffini  /  ?  Kyf&ni— glossed  Kledi ; 

254       Ni  b;^dd  byrracfc  y  daith  ir  gwrando  y  gwesaneth  .    .     .   z 
A  garo  trigaredd  gweddied  ar  alpha  /  /  - 


72  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  129. 

255  G[io]asscarkerdd  taliedn 

Nid  oes  vn  gair  gwir  heb  voliant  ir  drindod       .     .    .     .  er 

na  vydd  segvr  oth  vodd  oni  ddelych  ar  dy  Elor. 
b.  yscvdwaith  bardd  j 

Na  ddystyra  wr  bychan,  nag  ofna  wr  mawr b 

nag  ymddiriaid  ond  i  wir  dduw  / 
503  y  kyalcanawdd  Devvi  esgob  ag  y  kyscodd  Saint  Siors  Pen  sant  Eaer  lleon 
586  y  kolles  Kadwaladr  y  Goron. 

256  Pa  ddaioni  benna;  Gorvarch  Gyviownder  &c.       Taliessin 

b.  Gore  vn  bwyd;  bara gore  gwaith  vn  dyn ; 

gwarchad  yn  ddiwyd. 

257  vynghyngor  :  yw  ymofyn  a  doeth ;  tewi  wrth  ynvyd  &c. 

b.  Ni  thai  dim  y  llafvr  ni  enillir  o  bono  ddim  gobrwy  .... 
ends:  nid  dim  heb  ddyw.  /  Taliessin 

258  Tri  ffeth  sydd  anodd  i  gael — Taliwr  di  orwag;    my  linydd 

kowir  :  tafarnwr  heb  arddychawnt Tri  ffeth  ni  na  hir 

bara,  llyff  kornant,  rrwysc  mab  gwreng,  a  than  mewn  eithin  / 

260  Kas  ddynion  Sele   ddoeth  .  j  dyn   ni  wypo  da,   ag  nis  dysco 
.     .     .     .     ends  :  dyn  a  farchnatto  bob  peth  ag  ni  ffrin  ddim  / 

262  Mi  a   ddoyda  i  cbwi  chwedle  newydd  ....     ends  :  Tno 
i  kaid  y  gwragedd  gweddwon  ond  i  gogwyddo. 

263  Teach  youth  to  knowe  the  good  ffrom  bad     .....  c 
vnborne  is  better  then  vntaght.  / 

b.       ffi  ar  ddim  dirvm  a  dyrrodd  &c.  d 

d.       Er  gwrtaith  fowrdaith  ar  lafvrdir  dol  &c.  e 

264  Dvw  kreawdvr  nef  a  davar (also  p.  291)       f 

dvw  gwin  ath  law  dwc  ni  ith  wledd  dd  nanmor 

266c.     Y  betteni  ar  senturi  sydd  ar  ryw  &c.  {also  p.  317)  g 

d.       Keafais  a  lewais  trwy  lawen  gymryd  &c.  h 

267       Mawr  gennym  awr  ag  enyd t 

i  bwrn  ai  dyke  yw  bedd.  /                           Gruff:  Mraddog 
270       Mae  vn  ai  barch  mewn  y  byd h 

drwy  bawb  ac  fo  fendiar  byd.  John  Tvdr 

275  Moliant  Pirs  Mostyn  o  Dal  acre 

Pob  diav  mawr  pob  dim  aeth  I 

torred  yn  ol  natvriaeth 
Aed  eryr  hwnt  i  daren 

ar  hwiad  hwff  ir  hyd  hen 

y  karw  hen  akw  ar  hydd 

tvrri  ymaen  tv  ar  raynydd 

ar  eos  lies  aeres  Uwyn 

kydlais  i  waelod  koyd-lwyn 

ar  bronfraith  avr  berflfaith  big 

glwysfron  i  fedw  glas-frig 

ar  hedydd  awyr  bedeg 

ar  war  y  dydd  ir  awir  deg 

llwybyr  y  gler  He  bo  .  r  .  glod 

ni  ddaw  kerdd  frevgei'dd  ar  frya 

allan  He  ni  bo  yr  wUvs 

chwechoes  roed  diw  ych  iechyd  Lewes  Powell 

277       Mawrdyr  a  roddir  irwy  ddyn  ag  avr  &e.  m 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   129.  73 

278  Gwilie  addoeth  arnaf  a  fPawb  aeth  i  glera  .  .  «  .  a 
ni  wydde  noi  hen  haner  fyng  hampe :  /  Klidro 

280       Eoddais  ymryd  ar  hyd  yr  haf h 

noeth  i  dyn  yia  eitha  dwr.  /  Roht.  Clidro 

282  Gwrandewch  i  wyrda  fal  i  bvm  i  yn  peakotta  ...  c 
yn  bwrw  11am  yr  olwyn  rhynthi  a  ffull  heli    Robt  Clidro 

283  A  fyiiwch  i  owdwl  kerddor,  ni  wnaeth  irioed  gyngor  .  .  .  d 
ni  ddewais  ddim  yn  i  kyfer  liobt  Clidro 

285  Kowydd  odieth.  o  ddiwedd  pawb 

Ofer  i  ddyn  i  roi  yn  dda e 

ai  law  yno  i  lywenydd  S'  dd  trevor 

288  Kowydd  y  hyhydd  ar  hael 

Y  kybydd  difedvdd  dig / 

fab  a  na  nertb  fab  nef  yn  ol  &c.  /  John  tvdr 

290  ]fn  pnmis  kytcben  sugei-  21  lb.,  &c,,  &c. 

291  For  first  line  seep.  321  below. 

293       Aslvdio  i  ddwy  was  didwyll g 

a  sw  ami  ^esv  Amen  /  Doctor  John  Kent 

297       pwy  ywr  gwr  ar  power  i  gyd  h 

piav  bvchedd  pob  iechyd 

oen  duw  yngod  an  diango  Raff  ap  Robert 

300       Goyalv  heb  dv  heb  dal i 

pan  fynnych  fydd  penn  feinioes  Tvdr  Aled 

303  Troi  llygad  o  ddiarnad  i  ddwy  &c.  "  k 

304  Kowydd  Pirs  moston  hyna  :  j 

Y  karw  gwindravl  kaer  gandrws     .....  I 

ainod  hir  iw  mam  ai  tad  /  JVilliam  Kynwall 

307  Kowydd  John  Salusbury  o  rye  / 

y  Hew  o  rvg  garllaw  .  r  .  aUt m 

aed  ar  dduw  dad  dyrddo  di  Sion  Tvdvr 

310  Pedwar  peth  barietb  lie  i  boch  pie  bynnag  » 

pob  vnawr  ymgrovsoch 
rrag  y  kythrel  pen  weloch 
a  mellt,  agwn  a  mallt  goch 

311  Marwnad  Willi&m  Mostyn,  15T6 

Y  danfono  duw  yn  fynych a 

fowyd  hir  a  nef  yw  tad  William  llynn 

314  Kowydd  dager  i  howell  ap  John  ap  harry e.  j 

Howell  eryr  hail  wryd p 

del  vwch  wawd  a  diolcb  hyr  'John  Tvdvr 

31 7c.    Bydd  gall  a  deall  bob  dyn  &c.  q 

318  Resoninge  betwyne  christ  Sf  man.  j 

Ifn  the  begining  I  made  made  man  of  nought     .     .  r 

then  shall  you  win  to  me  / 
321  Kowydd  yn  erbyn  harv  y  byd  j 

Gwn  nad  da  gwae  enaid  dyn s 

ar  dal  nef  yr  adeilwn  ni  (=1.  54)     .... 

a  bodd  dvw  erbyn  diwedd  /  (=p.  291)  S'  dd  trefor 

323       Aer  Uepprog  Eowiog  o  R^w t 

fyth  ich  penpryd  hyfryd  hydd 

Hvm:  prys,  Gloehydd  Assaph 


74  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT  129. 

6.  Yn  d^engwath  a-\vna  deg  .  '■ .  ,.  ■-.'.'  ends:  myrdd 
ddengwaith  a  wna  rhiallv,  rhiallv  ddengwaith  a  wmi  bvna,  bvna 
ddengwaith  a  wna  gaterfa. 

c.       y  kefell  o  bell  heb  wad  kvl  egwan  &c.  « 

324       Pen  el  y  bvd  /  i  /  gid  yn  bwrs  &c.  6 

6.      y  gwenith  iwr  gwannyd  efrydd  c 

c.  Ai  dyma  /  r  /  .  .  .  Iwgwr  a  logodd  &c.  Bic:   Gr:     d 

d.  Os  darfv  ym  annwyldad  a  fEyred  o  ffyriad  &c.  e 
Page  325.  Dau  Englyn  gan  Gr:  Phillip  "i  ddyn  (och  waedd !) 

yn  faedd  a  fu,"  yn  lire  R'utliin.' 

Page  326.  The  diuision  of  the  Hwndred  of  Counsild  whatsoeuei- 
flails  "vppon  the  Hwndred  the  3d  part  ffalls  vppon  whitfford  & 
Holliwell,  the  other  2  parts  vppon  northop  kilken  Halkin  &  fflint, 
as  for  northop  the  deuide  into  5  parts  one  vppon  fflint  &  liberty  & 
one  vppon  krevallwch  &  one  uppon  swchton  kellterton  &  leadbrook 
major  &  one  uppon  northop  &  leadbrook  minor  &  one  uppon 
wepera  &  gwlftyn,  &  the  other  half  vppon  kilken  &  halkya  most 
bee  deuided  in  3  parts  one  to  halkyn  &  tow  to  kylken  with  one 
warrant  to  kylken  &  tow  warrauts  to  Halkyn  the  3d  part  aboue 
the  mowntayn  &  2  parts  to  llan  &  Elygen  y  werue. 

Page  327.  Holliwell  Receues  one  moytie  &  whitfford  the  other 
&  in  Holliwel  the  7*  part  •^'ppon  greenffeeld. 

b.  Inclyte  Johannes  divine  et  nomine  Davib,  &c.  / 


MS,  130.  Welsh  Poetry  from  the  "  Cors-y-Gedol  Library." 
Paper ;  8;^  X  6|  inches ;  i.-xxvi.,  and  490  pages  ;  late  xviith  and  early 
xviiith  centuries — the  larger  part  appears  to  be  in  the  autograph  of 
John  Davies,  and  a  conaiderable  number  of  poems  are  anonymous  ; 
bound  in  white  vellum.* 

Page  i.  A  table  of  the  Anwyl  family.  !". 

Pages  ii.-iii.  Blank. 

Pages  ix.,  x.,  xv.,  xvi.  Dangoseg  ILyfr  John  Middleton  Esqr.  ya  awr 
(1767)  yn  Meddiant  leuan  Brydydd  hir,  yn  cyiiwys  364  o  ddalennau 
yn  4  plyg  Tew.  , 

Pages  xi.-xiv.  A  list  of  Welsh  poets  alphabetically  arranged  with 
references  to  pages   containing  their  poems,  being   the   original  of  the 

♦  Among  the  numerous  marginalia  are  the  following  : — Kind  S'  This  is  w""  Love 
to  you  hoping  you  are  in  good  health  as  I  am  att  present  praise  be  to  god  for  it 
I  want  one  favour  of  your  Kindness  if  you  want  anny  Chool  Master  In  your  parts 
I  wood  be  very  obliged  for  that  favour  if  you  be  pleace  to  give  me  answer  good 
Sr  who  is  ready  att  your  Command  P.  Benjamin  (p.  25) ;  Benjamin  Johnson  of 
Brynmawer  Dolgelley — Lewis  Griffith  sosayd  Mr  Vincent  Johnson  of  Brvnmawer — 
Edward  Rowland  his  Book  1728  (pp.  24  &  139)  ;  David  Lewis  173|  (p."  26);  Ellis 
Humphres  his  book  1726  (pp.  37  &  139)  j  What  Fitts  us  best  is  best  'Tis  good  and 
Meet  To  make  our  Shooes  According  to  our  Feet  Lewis  Griffith  is  my  true  friend 
,  Robert  Edwards  1724  (p.  69)  ;  Thomas  Lloyd  of  Bryn  ada  (p.  70)  ;  Huntington 
Hemeford  :  Grey  |  Holland  :  Hughes  (p.  125)  ;  William  Johnson  his  book  (p.  140) ; 
July  30  Dies  1725  Honored  Mother  |  This  is  to  Let  you  Know  yet  that  I  am  In 
good  health  hoping  you  are  In  god  as  I  am  att  present  praise  be  to  god  for  it  I  have 
oneley  time  to  tell  ygu  Let  j  hear  for  you  Dear  Mother  as  Soon  as  you  can  I 
remaining  your  most  obedient  son  Vincent  Johnson  of  Brynmawer  (p.  355) ; 
Owen  Robert  of  Lanfachreth  (p,  357)  ;  David  Lewis  1737  (p.  365). 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   130>  75 

above   "  Dangoseg."-     These   pages    (5,|  x  4    inches)    are  beautifully 
wrifteri— 'date  circa  1669. 

Pages  xvii.-xxvi.  Mynegau  ne  yspysrwydd  i  gael  ygerdd  fel  y  maent 
yn  y  llyfr  hwn. 

Pages    1-16     wanting.      These    pages   con(;ained  according  to  the 
Index : — 

Cowydd  Brut  by  D''  ILwyd  TL.G. 

Creu  trin  nis  cred  rhai  eunyd  &c.  (p.  1).  a 

Cowydd  arall — Griffydd  awenydd  &c.  by  dd  ILwyd  IL.  Gr.  b 

(p.  3). 
Dai-fu  pob  gallu  or  golled  &c.  by  W"  Eiyn  (p.  5).  c 

ifon  a  ddanfones  lesu  &c.  by  dd.  IL.  IL.  Gr.  (p.  11).  d 

Dall  iw  r  byd  o  duellir  &c.  by  Ho.  dd.  ap.  E.  (p.  13).       e 
Am  ei  lliw  y  mae  llawer  &c.  by  lolo  Goch  (p.  14).  / 

Dau  Englyn  yn  amser  y  brenyn  W™  (p.  16). ,  g 

17   Yniddiddan  rhwng  Adrian  ag  Epiy  : 
Adrian  a    ofynnodd    beth   iw  'r  nef  ?    Epig  attebodd.  mae  peth 

o  ddirgeledig  ddeinydd  ydoedd  &c ends :  Adr :  Beth  a 

fydd  o  antexst  hyd  ddydd  y  farn  ?  E.  40  niwrnod. 

21    Yniddiddan  rhwng  y  Corff  ar  Enaid 


Y  Corff  digall  ciafF  i  degwedd 


Gowyr  fyth  boed  gwir  a  fo  ' 

25  Moliant  ir  parch:  Gr:  Nanney  o  Nanney 

■  Y"  Hew  gwyn  alluog  wedd i 

Yr  Aerod  ai  orwyrion  John  Davies 

28       Nid  oes  nSd  hir  oes  i  ti,  Nag  escys  k 

I  gysci  'n  hu  gweddi  &c.  &c.  &c. 

Page  29.  Proverbial  couplets.         Pages  31-32  wanting. 

33  Sic    Cambden    ex    Giraldo.     Nee    alia,    ut    arbitror,     gens 

quam  Cambrica,  nee  alia  lingua  &c. 

34  Englynion  :  ]fesu  fi  'n  pryni  fab  rhad  &c.  &c.  I 

35  Cowydd  i  ofyn  derieen  dros  Ed.  Prys  J  Ric.  Jones 

Y  gwreidd-fab  gwar  addfwyn m 

Tra  fo  pren  derwen  ar  d^r  William  Phylip 

38       Arch  anian  mcrfarch  mowrfydd  &c.  William  Phylip   n 

b.  I  dduw  :  f'escyrn  cedyrn  codwch,  bridd  a  gwaed     ...         o 
am  ^echyd  hefyd  wyt  ti  William  Phylip 

41  Yngylynion  y  wnaed  ar  ymadawiad  W"  Pugh  a  faethafarn  i 

fyned  ir  Mwythyg 
Mathafarn  gadarn  deg  odiaeth       foddion     .....      p 
Naws  dil^th  nes  y  deloch.  Anon 

42  Cowydd  dros  Pees  Grythor  i  ofyn  gwydd  i  aer  Perion 

Robert  ap  RJ^s  daclys  d6n q 

Bette  r  uch  foi  bwytae  R^s  Sion  Tudor 

Pages  43-44  wanting. 

45   Carol  Cupyd 

Iroeddwn  n6s-wener  yn  cymryd  f'smwythder     ....      r 
tra  bythwi  'n  ymsurio  am  fy  seren  Edward  Morris 

48  Ni  chan  mialchen  ennid  &c.  s 

49  Poen  anghall  na  ddeallwn •  t 

At  Hu  yno  ir  Uawenydd- 


76  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   130. 

51   Y pJiiol  frech :  At  aur  bren  rwj>  'n  tynni  om  bro    ...      a 
A  chynydd  iw  pherchenawg 

53       Y  gwr  t'yth  a  garo  ferch b 

Air  om  pen  ar  wenn  o  wir  Tho:  Price 

55   Camolielh  gwraig,  a  gogan  iw  gwr 

Cerais  f^n  fwyn  i  hwyneb c 

a  d 1  i  goed  el  ai  gwr  Sion  Tydder 

57       Caernarfon  hen  gofion  gwyr d 

Ar  Haw  genych  iarll  Gwynedd  Wiliam  TLyn 

60       Oes  barlwr,  Oes  dwr,  Oes  dii  &c.  e 

h.     fiydd  faith  a  gobaich  gan  gybydd  &c.  / 

c.  Gwenwynddant  gilddanl  ar  goedd g 

Gwaiw  haint  a  wna  daint  yn  don 

d.  Prii  a  gnu  ymdru  'n  drwch  mewn  dannedd  <fec.  h 

Pages  61-66  wanting.     These,  according  to  the  Index,  contained — 

a.  Carol  Dd.  brophwyd  :  Dafydd  fab  lesu  &c.  (p.  61).  i 

b.  Cowydd  Brut  ar  y  flwyddyn  1655  (p.  65).  k 

c.  Pymtheg  Cyneddf  march   [*«c]  dda  \_sic]   (p.  66).  / 

67   Cowydd  i  yrri  merch  yn  gennad  at  Vincent  Corbett  o  ynys 
y  maengwyn  i  ofyn  march  iddo 

Duw  'n  rhwydd  y  Ghiain  addfeindeg m 

I  gor  y  defed  gwiriest  (1.  127). 

Pages  71-86  wanting.     These,  according  to  the  Index,  contained — 

a.  Englynion  i  Vincent  Corbett  (p.  75). 

b.  The  magisterial  Pill  (p.  76). 

c.  Englynion  ar  y  synhwyrau  by  Humphrey  dd.  Bevan  (p.  77). 

d.  Y  Cymro  dyscedig  derbyn  galennig  (p.  82).     Ed:  Morris     n 

e.  Dydd  da  fo  ir  llwynog  or  ogof  (p.  85)*  *  *  o 

87  II  Os  ceisio  y  rwyt  llwyddo  a  gwellhau 

ffarwel  rhaid  fFo  ir  allt  H.  JLwyd  Cynfel 

88  Cyffes  y  llwynog  wedi  myned  yn  hen 

Y  ILwynog  ar  lliw  anhardd p 

heb  peidio  ond  liysio  hon  (1.  82)*  *  *  „  „ 

Pages  91-92  are  wanting. 

(  Ymddiddan  rhwng  Nattyr  a  chydwybod 

Gwrandewch  ar  ddatcuddiad  &c.*  *  *  )  g 

S3      -llEwJ*  'n  falch  ag  yn  iicliel  i  riiw  fan  mi  k  i  ryfel     . 

Im  holi  'n  ddioedi  am  addewydion  ^  H.  TL.  Cynfel 

96   Cowydd  yr   Oes  ytna 

Bwriwn  hyn  ber  iw  heinioes f 

wedi  'r  amod  yn  drymiawn  (=1.  72)  *  *        Tho:  Koydeifane 
Pages  97-120  wanting.     These,  according  to  the  Index,  contained— 

a.  Carol:  Cymru  Xstnogol  naws  dirion  &c.  (p.  98).  E:  Morris    t 

b.  Gwrandewch  ar  myfyrdod  am  dy  fais  &c.   (p.    100).  t 

c.  Farewell  to  the  world,  on  Jorels  M'"  (p.  103).  a 

d.  Ti  geiliog  teg  eilwad  plygeiniol  &c.  (p.  105).   Tho.  ILwijd  v 

e.  Ir  Bedd :  Wrth  ystyried  ystori  (p.  109).  ffrm  jp»   ^ 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    130.  77 

/..  Cowydd  y  ffwir  gyfreth 

Aniier  -wrth  jawn  ofyn  (p.  113).  T.  Price  a 

g.  Beth  iw  Oes  dyn 

Vn  modd  ar  gwelltyn  dyfiad  ir  (p.  117).  b 

h.  Euglynion  i  Aeres  Nanney,  ag   ir    Plas  (p.    119). 
i.  Penillion  o  waith  William  Phyllip   (p.    120). 

121    Cyffes  Ellisse  Sion  y  gwehydd 

Wrth  weled  f-'einioes  egwan e 

ag  yspryd  newydd  ynddi 

126   Cyngor  ir  Rowndied 

Gwrando  di  'r  Cydymeth  hyn  o  'thrawieth  rowiog    .     .     .  d 
Hwnw  a  ddaliodd  lawer  iin  Hugh  Morris 

CowYBED  hy  HuMPHKET  Dd.  ap  Euan. 

129  Cerdd  Cogio :  J  ba  beth  y  gwnaed  y  byd e 

fe  wyr  y  gwr  a  wnaeth  y  gan  /  betli  gogio 

133  Llythyr  Cyrriyn  :  Att  holl  Gristnogion  y  tyr f 

Khan  lies  lel  dyna  'r  hen  Haw 

136  I  dduw  :  Dis  iw 'r  byd  os  arbedwn     ...  ff 

Ar  dda  mw^  ond  nr  dduw  mawr 

138       Dydi  r  byd  o  dwyd  ar  ben h 

Duw  ner  rhoed  hwy  dynerhau 

141       Dydd  da  fo  i  ti  yr  llwynog  y  Ueidir  wyn  llidiog     ...» 
mi  a  gjowa  faith  awydd  fatheiad  Edward  Morris 

144  Mi  a  Wales  rai  fydde  ar  chydig  yn  dechre  h 
yn  dowad  or  gore  ag  erill  im  hoes 

yn  eychwyn  a  llawer  yn  myned  ar  bringder 
Cyn  bwrw  mo  banner  i  heinioes 

b.      Nid  yn  ol  wll^s  a  chariad  marchwrys  &c.  I 

145  Pwy  bynag  gorwag  a  garo  ddadwrdd m 

hireth  am  gydymeth  da 

146  Wrth  graffl  'n  fynych  edrych  f'oedran « 

Cymrai  grefydd  swydd  o  newydd  sii  ddiniwed 

b.      B^m  gan  Wen  seren  usirwydd  Bron o 

dduUyn  yn  ei  hen  ddillad  ?  Edw.  Moris 

147  Cwrs  ynfyd  Cerais  unferch p 

Ag  yn  iach  bellach  ir  byd 

148  Mae  fFordd  barod  i  rodiaw q 

Ai  ymswyn  dy  ddwyn  i  ddiawl 

149  P'ob  perchen  annedd  enaid  inion r 

Gwell  iw  cyngor  hen  nai  faeddi 

153  Drwg  foes  ag  anfoes  heb  ganffod  fy  mod  &c.  s 

b.  Na  'ddola  dy  dda  C'  ddyn  na  ddyro  &c.  t 

c.  Hunais  dyhuuais  heno,  Cwrs  dedwydd  &c.  u 

d.  Duw  gwyn  nad  newyn  ar  neb,  gwareda  &c.  v 

154  Adrodd  y  gwir  drwy  ddwy  a  gaf w 

ymrown  i  droi  mawr  iw    n  drwg 

155  Gwae  fi  cedwais  gof  cadarn a: 

yn  fuw'r  f^n,  ai^  farw  finnaii  Tydder  Aeled 


78':  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   1-30. 

156       ILe  bo  Caiiad  brad  mown  bron  yn  llechi a 

T  golwg  nid  eill  pelu 
Serch  ffyddlon  y  galon  gu 
l157   Carol  Cyfflybieth  Orie  dyn  i  ^  chwarter  y  lleiad 

Yr  holi  Israeliaid,  Cenhedloedd  Hebrseaid     .     .     .     .     .     b 
Amen  drw^  ras  ^fesii  'n  oes  oesoedd  Edward  Rowland 

161  Marwnad  Griffith  o  Fadryn  151$ 

Y  gwr  gwynn  uwcb  gwyr  Gwynedd c 

Y  8^  wr  fyth  Oes  hyr  fo  William  E^yn 

165  Marwnad  y  parch  Gr:  Nanney  o  Nanney  Etq'  l6S()    .  i 

Troes  duw  niwl  trist  anaele d 

JMewngogoniant  y  sant  sydd  John  Davies 

170       Och  fyd  t6st!  Och  ofid  haint  e 

Och  beno  gan  awch  hanaint 

Y  bo  beinydd  b6b  enaid  William  Phyllipp 

173  Mar:  S'  Tho:   Goch  cyn  i  farw,  J  ofyn  i  ddillad,  ai  farch 

IFres  i  cawn  hofi  rfts  cennych f 

■     ■    He  brau  i  find     ILwybyr  y  fendith  Sion  Tyddyr 

Na  cbenwcb  peidiwch  mwy  end  pader     ....  g 

ymlaen  rhowiogwyn  amal  anrhegion 

Pages  177-182  wanting.     These,  according  to  the  Index,  contained — 
«.   Cowydd  i  regi  Eiddig 

Y  Haw  a  dorodd  y  llwyn  &c.   (p.  177)  Tho:  Price  h 

'b.'     Fob  dyn  a  fedd  dafod  &c.  (p.  178)  H.  Morris    i 

c.       Fob  perchen  enaid  gwrandewch  &c.  (p.  181)    *  #  *  k 

183        ends  :  An  gwyn  fyd  i  ganu  gogoniant.  H.  Morris 

b.   Goyan-yowydd  y  gwragedd 

Mi  gefes  i  mi  gyfoeth 

fyth  ddilyn  y  fath  ddelwau  Roger  Cyffyn 

185  Gwraig  sydd  anedwydd,  medd  hen  awdwr  ffel  &c.    J.  D.  m 

186  Ir  drindod:  Y  tad  or  dechreiad  chwyrn n 

yn  rhwydd  a  chwbwl  on  rhaid  Sion  Kent 

187  Y  b5>d  trist  ar  bowyd  draw o 

duw  dro  gair  dy  drigaredd  William  ILyn 

189   Coxvydd  ar  y  X  gorchymyn 

llawrodd  a  rocs  duw  i  Foesen ,f 

dyscwn  ag  eirwn  b6b  gair 

Dd.  ddu  o  hiraddug  (medd  erill  D'  J.  Kent) 
191       Myfyrio  wrth  rodio  i  rwyf q 

'n  pair  un  mab  Mair  Amen      Dd.  ap  dd.  JLwyd  Dolbran 
193   Carol  \in  disparagement  of  the  Protector'] 

Fob  ffydd-lon  galonne  edrychwch  ar  fryche     ...  r 

fendithion  duw  'n'gyfan  iw  gofio  Hugh  Morris 

Rhiw  odlau  o  hen  gywddau,  or  selected  passages. 

195  Ascell  o  bob  eden  gwiscwych  g 
Ar  fryn  a  wnae  'r  fran  yn  wych  &c.  &c'. 

196  Y  feiol  er  i  fwa  • t 

i  llais  fel  breferiad  lie 


197       Carwn  dyminwn  fy  mod 
fpdri  i  cholu  ni  chnel 


MOSTYN.  MANUSGEIPT"  130.  79 

1976.    Ar  enillaia  ar  naill-law a 

Bonheddig  irddedig  ddyn 

198  Am  y  bdd:  Gwylan  dinllydah  lledwyllt b 

dorllwyth  o  dylwyth  i  dlr,  &c.  &c.  &c. 

199  Cowydd  i  ferch  ag  iw  mam 

Tngwynedd  y  mae  niweddi c 

HoU  ddiawl  el  a  hwy  ill  dwy  Davidd  ILoyd 

200  Proverbial  lines- from' the  poets  ■  -  - 

Mirnio  da  mai'w  'u  y  diwedd  d 

a  dar  byd  nid  k  ir  beddt  &c.  '<fec. 

201  Enfflynion,  ar  y  Pader,. 

Yn  tad  an  iierthiad  i  ni,  An  Naf e 

Ar  grym  ar  galli  ar  grsLs 

203  Marwnad  John  Prys  TLwyn  ynn 

Darfi  lira   Ben  Awdyrfarn     .....  / 

Hoff  wrol  braise  tfarwel  Brys  Harry  Howel 

204  Yn  nhu  dduw  sant  nid  oes  wall g 

Eso.ob  ^wch  ond  tasc  bychan  <fcc. 

205  Marwnad  Jane  Parry  o  Hendre  fawr 

Duw  un  wyt  yn  dwyn  attad h 

Su  ble  i  meistras  Holant  Watkin  Clywedol  [sic]. 

206  Y  ILwyn  ai  wysc  oil  yn  wyrdd i 

wyth  ran  serch  ir  loeiw  ferch  Ian  Sion  Tydder 

207  Englynion  ir  D'  D\_avies'\ 

Calon  a  ffynnon  hofi  eiiaid k 

I  cby  a  Sion  wych  oes  h^r 

208  Y  chwanen  bach  inion  biir  I 
er  un  mab  y  gwr  ai  medd                                  Thomas  Prys 

209  Coipydd  i  ofyn  siwt  o  ddillad  neicydd  gan  Mr.  ffoxdhes  i 

Tho  .•  Edw!\Tds 

Y  Defein  o  dwf  uniawn  ....  m 
dal  ir  hael  duwiol  ai  rh^dd                                      H.  Morris 

211    Y  Gasseg  :  J  ble  yr  a  blaen  yr  -wf\ .   n 

Mae. 'n  dda  rhodd  Ond:  ni  ddaw  rhawg 

Robt.  dd.  TLoyd  Krymlyn  o  sir  fvii 
213    Ymddiddonion  rhwng  y  bardd  ac  un  gowse  adwyth  oil  li/ti 

Mi  ath  weles  da  domas  mewn  gweddol  gymdeithas     .      .     o 

Cyfrwjdiaid  daith  fenaid  ith  fynwes     Hugh  Morris  1688 
Oau  Gyivydd  i  ofyn  Bdd 
216       Y  trowyr  glan  tree  wir  gl6d p 

Ni  tlirigant  od  ant  ir  donn                                   Tho:  Price 
in       Am  hyn  rwy  n  gofyn  nid  gwad q 

Avrth  yn  bodd  yr  aeth  yn  byd  „  „ 

218  Prophwydolieth :  Deuall  y  rwj'f  dall  i  rai     .     .     .     .  r 

Yn  br?-dd  i  fyned  on  bro  Dd.  lloyd  TLew.  ap  Gr. 

219  Cowydd  i  D'  Dafis  i  ofyn  march  i  Tho:  ab  Will'  meir: 

Y  defein  glau  dyfn  i  gl6d     .....  s 
I  ehwy  a  Sian- chwe  oes  hydd         Humph:  Dd:  ab  Evan 

221       Y  forwyn  deg  firaen  dal t 

duw  s^l  yn  d'ymyl  ond  iis  Anon 

224       Olwen  guliiel'  Ian  galon     .....  ti 

dniTi   wen  fwyii  dcrfyn  f'oos  Sicn  Tyddyr 


80  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   130. 

225  Cerdd  y  Tair  Oes :  Pob  perchen  einioes  nwyfys,  a 

J  feddwl  hyn  yn  foddys 

J  blith  dy  uefol  seintie  drwy  bur  amode     Amen  / 

228  Engylynion  J  Sion  dafydd  y  prydydd 

Na  than  o  anoethineb,  wradwydd h 

Syrdod  iw  ddiod  ni  ddaw  Robert  Pryse 

229  Wrth  ofer  arfer  oer  fydd  y  dynged  &c.  Lewis  Owen  c 

b.  Atteb  :  Gwir  'r  gair  purair  heb  pall,  wych  awdwr  .     .    .    .  d  ' 

a  darostwng  o  dristwch  John  Davies 

c.  Am  bechod  mewn  n6d  a  wnest,  y  prydydd  &c.    Lewis  Owen  e 

Page  230.  Recipes  for  curing  consumption    &     cough,   for    pro- 
voking sleep  &  a  milde  sweat,  for  making  "  diett  drinke  "  &c.  &c. 

232  Ystyriwch  fobl  wrth  ystori  r  byd f 

fe  wyr  ei  hyn  y  fo  rhaid 

233  Cowydd  iw  gariad  oedd  wedi  marw 

ILyma  haf  llwm  i  hoiwfardd ff 

Breiddwyd  am  briddo  dy  dal 

234  Cais  gareg  deg  a  dau  gi  a  llwynog  &c.  h 
b.      Ceisiwch  amserwch  lyfrau  messurau  &c.  » 

235  Duw  tad  a  fwriade  bob  peth  yn  y  dechre k 

^  fynd  ai  n8d  arnom  iw  dyrnas  H:  Morrit 

237  Y  boban  yn  waii  unwaith  y  genir I 

^  daith  ei  hinan  ai  disg 

238  Pan  ks\  dynion  yn  feddwon  faith  yn  dadwrdd  &c.  m 
b.      A  garo  morwyn  o  ddyn  gwirion  &c.  re. 

239  Ceisio  un  or  cussanau o 

a  garwn  a  fynwn  f^th  Dafydd  ab  Edmund 

240  Y  fyn  wyl  iw  fy  noliir p 

ofn  hyn  iw  f'anhinedd  Bedo  Brwynllyt 

Pages  241-2,  containing  Englynion  y  Cusan  "  Cussanu  caru  Lliw'r  Cwrael" 
&e.,  are  wanting. 

243       Gwel  ddyn  yn  dy  fowyd  pwy  bynnag  wyt  hefyd     .     .       q 

a  dilyn  ferch  Sion  iis  awyr 

Will:   Phyllip,   altered   later  into  Maurice  Rich: 
245   Carol  tri  Chydymeth 

Gwrandewch  fy  myfyrdod  mi  geisies  roi  gosod      ...       r 

^  gofio'r  daith  heno  rw^  ith  annog 

249       Duw  'n  rhwydd  yr  hen  ddihenydd y 

gyfri  rhyngo  fi  ar  farn  Hum:  dd.  ab  Evan 

253  Pe  cawn  ddeibwn  o  dda  byd     yn  aur t 

ly  hinan  yn  fy  henaint  J^    _p;i, 

254  Englynion  i  wr  a  yareu  wraig  i  gymydog  8fc. 

Rhiw  Garwr  yn  siwr  im  sydd,  or  dalaith « 

aed  bwried  lie  fynned  fo  Anon 

b.      Y  gymres,  a  ges,  mi  a  ga  a  roddes ■o 

y  fyddi  am  fi  heb  fod  Hugh  ab  Euan  ap  Robert 

255  Meddylied  am  addoli ^ 

wrth  raid  im  henaid     Amen  i?--  John  Cent 

257       Y  ferch  teg  i  gwedd  meddua ^^ 

Boen  yngwedd  b^n,  ne  Angau 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   130.  81 

Marwnad  y  Prydydd  iiv   Gariad 
258       Dyn  wyf  er  doe  'n  ei  ofj-d a 

Ben  ar  fvd  a  byn  ir  farn 
260       Duw  oes  arwjdd  dy  sorri 6 

Yn  y  pwll  wrth  wyneb  hon  ([.  44)*  «  «  # 

Pages  261-2,  containing  Cowydd  Canorieth  H.  Arwystle, 
"  Bjm  anwyl  lie  bym  unnos,"  are  wanting. 

262  Marwnad  S''  Owain  Gwilim 

Ti'wm  i\v  'r  ia  tramwj^  ar  6d     .     .  .     .  c 

y  trig  addisc  tragwyddol 

265  f  henaint :  Dyminais  y  fFordd  heb  dim  anwyd  oer     .     .     .    d 

A  ymdri  'n  oer  draw  'n  i  wS,l 

266  Marwnad  Jo'  Salisbury  o  Ryg  a  Bachymbyd 

O  duw  dad  pa  f5^d  ydiw e 

]f  gwelwn  bawb  i  gilydd 

269  f  fair :  MorwJ^n  iw  iin  Uiw  an  lies     gwiriondeb     ...       f 

J  du  dduw  lie  da  i  ddyn 

270  (Nid  gwaeth  gwaedob'aeth  iin  dyn  nai  gilydj  &c.  jr 
b.      Fe  droir  y  dwr  yn  siwr  drwy  siars h 

Ni  thr^  gwlad  Gariad  oi  gwrs) 

271  Sj^r  Eichart  ai  ddart  o  ddj^r  i 
Bwcle  ydech  bennad^r 

Aur  gleddau  mawr  arglwydd  A16n. 

273   Ymddiddan  Rhwng  Jo"   Tydder  ai  geffyl . 

F'yng  wineifarch  fwng  nwyf^s     ....  k 

Ar  ais  cj^l  aros  cog  (=1.  40)  *  *  *  » 

275  Gwae  er  undyn  heb  gowreindab  / 
Gwae  rydd  mercb  a  garodd  mab 

Garii  mab  yn  gowyr  mw^     .  ... 

276  Carwrieth  .-^HsiVfAAfjA  ir  nos  felysai m 

un  Ian  i  mi  dan  Iwyn  aiir 

277  Gwrandewch  ar  ystyrieth  pechadyr  wrth  synieth     .     .     .   n 
ti  nerthi  i  reoli  ar  i  elyn  Tho:  TLwyd,  Penmaen 

280  Derbyn  Venws  wiwdlws  wedd o 

ym  rhif  arogle  'r  eglwys 

281  Cowydd  i  fair  ar  Jesu 

T  frenhines  fron  hynod p 

A  rhediad  gwlad  Baradwys 

2^^^Gweithredoedd  dutv  ar  y  saith  niwrnod 

Digam  fi  duw  gymwyll     ....  q 

mab  brenyn  mwy  an  pryno 

286  Cowydd  ir  Apostolion 

Prydyddi  a  wna  mwya  mawl r 

Or  lie  yno  ir  llawenydd. 

288  (Griffidd  Vaughan  lS,n  haelioni     mowredd     .     ,     .     .     .       s 
Os  ceir  mind  ysgwier  mawr)  Lewis  Oicen 

289  Cowydd  yn  ei'byn  annudon  ag  ofer  lyfe 

Baud  rhyfedd  boen  trwy  ofyd t 

Jn  dycco  oil  iin  duw  cii  JI.  Dd.  Evan 

292       (Yr  annuwiol  ££61  a  ffli  poen  alaeth)  &c.  u 

e    87130.  F 


82  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   130. 

293       Felli  'r  Byd  ynfyd  anferth a 

hen  ffriw  cul  Humphrey  ai  cant 

Hum:  Dd.  Evan  Clochydd  ILanhrynmair 

295  Gwell  i  wan   traglan   fo'n   treiglo  goror  .        6 
y  maen  garw  ai  dalio  Ac.  Ac. 

296  Y  gigfran :  Yr  w^dd  ddii  fawr  ar  glawr  glan     ....       c 

dewr  haeddiant  duw  ai  rhoddo  21.  Dd.  Evan 

300  A  Receipt  for  the  Jaundice. 

301  Moliancofi  iincofo  y  nod,  duw  Ner d 

Rymisteg  er  ymostwn. 

b.   Tri_  o  yngylynion  ar  y  gwynt  mawr  nos  Sadwrn   lonawr 
'  11^,  A.D.  16B1 
Fa  swn  ?  dychrynwn,  drwch  h^n,  Duw  'n  Ceidwad     .     .   e 
Yr  iiu  duw  heddiw  iw  hwn 

302  Am  ych  llythyr  (Bennadyr)  bydd  boenydieth    ....       / 
y  Bogin  i  bw^  debyge 

b.       Gwell  Cardod  barod  ar  ben     a  rannech g 

ysprydol  difydol  fi 

303  Engylynion' ar  fedd 

Finau.  fal  dithau  fi  un,  dydd,  fuw  yna h_ 

fri  ben  barn  frib  yn  y  b^d  W  JPhyV. 

b,       Mirsen  mewn  Cell  ni  ellir  i  chadw  &c.  i 

304  Englyn  i  aherch  gwr  Eglwysig 

D6s  bappiryn  gwyn  yn  genad k 

ne  wna  yrri  un  arall 

305  Y  pry  dydd  yn  ymliw  ai  awen  am  i  ddeni  i  wario  i  amser 

wrth  y  Gymraeg  S;c. 

Fy  awenydd  fai  anpeth I 

drwy  gwplad  a  drigo  iw  plyth  Edward  Morris 

309  GoUwng  fi  Arglwydd  di  ai  gelli,  om  poen  &c.  m 

310  Carol  Cynghorol  arfessyr  Triban 

Fob  Cadarn  mawr  i  allu n 

aed  heibio  na  wrandawed  W  Phyllip 

312  Fob  Cristion  ar  aned  naws  dirion  ystyried o 

^r  nefijedd  ar  iowndaith  iniondeg 

313  ILyiTia  lie  y  ddwy  fi  ar  ddamwain  y  gorwedd  &c.  p 

314  Clowch  ddangos  rhagorieth  rhwng  pringder  a  choweth  .  .  q 
^  fawl  ai  ogoniant  a  ganwn  Edward  Morris 

317  Engylynion  am  seran  y  gyn^ffon 

Dwg  serch  ag  annerch  ar  gka,  at  Domas r 

Cewch  anfarfawl  fawl  fw^  Sr  Rees 

318  Cerdd  y  synwyr 

Rw$^  'n  cell  poene  calon  ai  ddwy  fron  yn  rhiddifri  .  .  .  .  s 
Rydwy  'n  gvvario  foes  oi  ben  Edw:  iJotoland 

320  Hanes  y  Byd 

Y  Britaniaid  hyna  trigolion  gwlM  Cambria t 

a  pherfleth  llawenydd  llawn  yno  Ellis  ap  Ellis 

323  B6b  djdd  mae  celwydd  o  coelir  dynion     ......  u 

y  neb  y  fae  anniben 

324  fy  nuwies  gynnes  Lodes  Ion,  Ai  pharable  gwiw  ....■» 
fawl  lliw  'r  wylau  Iwyr  eiliodd  minwydd  masc 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   130i  83 

Cywybeu  &c.  by  John  Daties. 

Pages  325-6,  containing  the  first  part  of  Coicydd priodas  H.  Nanney, 
■"  Af  i  neithior  fwyn,"  &c.,  are  wanting:  the  first  line  remaining  is — 

327       II  Goresgynnydd  gynnydd  gwyth « 

ir  Siroedd  gyda  'r  Seren 

Pages  329-30,  containing  the  first  part  of  Marwnad  Ed:  Morris 
{l6Sg),  "  Wyled  beirdd  eled  y  byd,"  &c.,  are  wanting  :  the  first  line 
remaining  is — 

331       II A  dyna'r  faii  daii  oer  fedd b 

iw  Naf  yngolaii  Nefoedd 

333  Englynion  lorth  glywed  am  farwolaeth  El^dwart}  M\ orris] 

Newydd  anedwydd  in  iaith  am  Edwart c 

Ar  Awen  fyth  ir  un  fan 

-334       Y  gwr  a  gaiff  garii  Gwen d 

fyth  iw  gwthio  'r  f^th  Gether 

337   Coicydd  i  ddaii  Offeiriad  am  yfed  yn  fynych 

Y  gw5*r  Hen  rhagor  y  lleill c 

mor  hwylus  y  mor  heli 

339  Cowydd  i  ofyn  Cymod  yr  un  gwyr 

Y  Gw^r  sydd  a  gras  iddynt f 

Na  charol  buddiol  i  beii. 

342   Carol  Haf  am  y  flwyddyn  l6gl 

ffarwel  ir  Gauaf  nychlyd,  Ar  Gwanwyn  yr  un  fPunyd  .  .    g 
Ar  uefoedd  yn  dragwyddol  orseddol  orau  swydd 


344  Manonad  Edward  Moris  l6S^ 

Briw  gofld  braw  a  gefais h 

glana  swydd  i  gael  enw  Sant  Hugh  Moris 

550  Cowydd  i  Sioti  Dafydd  am  na  chanase  i  Mrs.  Anne  Nanney 
merch  gyntaf  anedig  Hugh  Nanney  l6^1 

Ai  byw  Sion  ai  biniwn  sal i 

wr  sal  i  drothe  'r  Seler  Rowland  Price 

355  Atteb :  Mae  gwr  mwyn  am  garu  merch k 

deued  gwell  iddo  dewi  Jo"  Davies 

359  Atteh  :  Amheu  wnes  clywch  fy  rheswm  ....                   I 

Myu  Mair  i  bob  gair  oi  gan  Rowland  Pryse 

366   Coiuydd  i  ofyn  Morwyn  i  Row:  Price 

Y  rhywiogwalch  wr  hygar m 

hoff  ryfyg  heb  i  phrofi  (see  p.  439).  Jo"  Davies 

567       Clwyf^s  afiachJ^s  vrj  fi,  am  y  feinir  &c.  „  n 

368  Marwnad  Ed:  Maurice 

O'r  lesu  gwyn  yn'r  oesau  gynt     ....  o 

Amynedd  am  oen  addwyn  <;      i?owland  Price  Esq: 

371  O  alar  byn  a  welant  or  gore  &c.  p 

372  Cowydd  i  Rob:  Edward  am  na  chae  hlant 

Y  bardd  hael  beraidd  helynt q 

feindw  Ian  y  fl  'n  dy  le  Gr:  Parry 

573  Atteh:  Pa  aer  gl^n  y  pia  'r  glod r 

0  wir  fodd  ar  y  feddaf  Robert  Edward 

F  2 


84  MOSTYN    MANUSCKIPl'   130. 

377  Atfeb  :  Y  Cowirfardd  cii  fawr-ddisc     ....  a 

Bo  alawnt  teg  blant  i  ti  Gr.  Parry 

379  Atteh :  Y  da  rwydd-f'ardd  dewr  add-fwyn     ....  h 

madde  i  bawb  y  modd  i  bii  Robert  Edward 

383    Coicijdd  i  ofyn  Cwpwl  o  fytheid  i  Tho:  Price 

Pw^  ivv  'n  gwiwddoeth  piir  gweddawl     ....  e 

fendithion  dynion  yn  d^l  Hugh  TLoyd  Cynfel 

385   Yr  Adar :  Wiliam  Philip  lem  ffelwawd d 

Nar  eryr  dan  yr  Aran  Jo"  Vaughan 

388  Atteb :  Y  gwalch  e'iraid  glych  arian e 

Mars  iw  'n  b^d  duw  mawr  su'n  beii  W"  Phylip 

392  Bym  yn  llanc  ifanc  dan  ofyn  byd  rbydd  &c.      „        „       / 

Darnau  o  Gywyddau : — 

393  Tristach  iw  Cymru  trostyn g 

naill  ai  i  dduw  ai  'n  Haw  ddiawl 

b.  Atteb:  Myrfyrio  mae 'r  oferwr h 

o  fewn  llif  afon  ai  llade^ 

c.  Gittyn  y  glyn  a  fi  glaf ; 

y  borthes  y  gormes  gynt. 

394rf  Dafydd  o  ddyffryn  Dyfi k 

Abad  a  fyn  fwyd  iw  foch 

e.  dy  fwnwgl  yn  dwf  iniawn I 

a'i  ridens  or  min  redya  Z>.  ap  G. 

f.  Pedair  Arch  ith  gyfarcha m 

Yu  rhwydd  a  chwbwl  on  rhaid  D'  J.  Cent 


395  Jr  Hobbi  Ctctta  :  Yr  hobi  a  ddiarhebwyd     ....  n 

Garw  drwsd  er  a  gaer  drosdo  John  Mowddwy 

397   Atteb:  Dydi  r  bardd  wyd  awdyr  byd     .....  o 

A  gad  i  mi  gadw  r  March  Richard  Phylip 

40U       Yr  Wylan  deg  ar  Ian  dwr p 

dwi-  a  b&r  yn  Afv  i  bo  Sion  Phyllip 

402   Cywydd  ymlaid  y  Bermo 

Sion  Phyllip  su  'n  hofif  alarch q 

cawn  dwils  coch  y  pwils  och  pen  John  David  Jenkin 

404  Atteb  :  Fewythr  llwyd  f'athro  lliwdeg r 

a  giddio  i  hen  gowydd  hi  John  Phyllip 

40fi  Mar:  am  Ast :  Wrth  edrych  llewych  Uaweii     ....  s 

tin  wych  oedd  yn  iach  iddi  Jo"  Davies 

408  Aiudl  foliant  ir  Col:  Hugh  Nanney  o  Nanney 

Cornel  wyt  wrol  at  euro  dynnion     ....  * 

a  Chati-in  unol  i'ch  Twr  Nannau  Jo"  Davies  l6g3 

412   C.  yr  Oen  i  ymgynghori  ag  ef,  yn  erbyn  C.  y  llwynog 

Y  gwirionllwdn  teg  rhawnllaes     ....  u 
a  rein  heddwch  ir  enaid                                        Foulh  Prys 

414  Cywydd  i  ofyn  Rhees  Grythor 

Y  Bardd  iown-drefn  bwrdd  windraul     ....  v 
■RhJ>s  yn  hii  PrJ^s  ynhop  rhod                      William  Cynical 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   130.  85 

416  Cyivydd  i  roi  Rhys 

Y  Bardd  gwyn  ebrwydd  ganniad     ....  a 

^  g^d  ir  hof  gida  E.%s  Sion  Tudur 

419   Cyioyddtros  Ynyr  Vaughan  i  ddiolch  am  gleddau  i  Griffydd 
Vaughan  o  Gorsygedol,  l6SS. 
Tri  oedd  hael  trwy  dda  heljnt     ....  h 

,  drwy  Tf esu  Haw  dduw  drosoch  Jo"  Davies 

422  Dyriau  Cynghoratel  ir  JJienctyd 

Gwrandewcii  arna  'n  traethi  baled     ....  c 

gwna  di  gyngor  Hittyn  garpiog  William  Phyllip 

425  Y  gwr  a  wnaeth  y  llyged  d 
ar  pen  ar  clustie  i  glowed     .... 

ag  yn  dy  fedd  y  fori.     (Psalm  94)  „  „ 

h.   Cyioydd  ar  fariholeth  W.  Nanney 

Fe  gaed  yn  y  goedwig  lath  fawr  o  Iwyth  Feirig     .     .     .  e 
Mewn  gwladfendigedig  i  gadw  Hugh  Bevan 

426  Henaint :  Tynni  ir  ail  adail  ar  redeg  J  rw^     ....         / 

gar  bron  y  gwr  a  brynodd  William  Phyllip 

428       T  forwyn  deg  firain  dal     ....  g 

ath  nawdd  er  y  gwr  ath  wnaeth  Jo"  Phillip 

430       Yr  eos  deg  aeres  dail     ....  h 

ai  cloi  medd  ai  cael  im  iawn  Rhys  Cain 

432   Cyioydd  Camolieth  merch 

Y  duwiessau  dewisawl     ....  i 

brig  cwyr  pwy  ni  wyr  pwyn  iw  Sion  Phillip 

434  Carol  a  wnaed  yn  amser  y  Protector  1651 

Pa  fyd  a  gawn  weithiau  sur  awyr  sy'r  owan     .     .     .     .    k 
oth  fendith  goruchel  gwiriachys  William  Phillip 

437       Fe  ddarfii'r  awenydd  gan  dryrader  a  chystydd  .     .     .    I 

ai  farnu  fo  i  farw  am  i  'feredd  John  Wynn 

439  Atteb  i  Sion  Davies  yn  rhoddi  i  forwyn  (see  p.  366)  iddo 

Nid  adwen  ddyn  wy'n  dwedyd     ....  m 

Cei  di  'n  dda  Cadw  'n  ddiwall  Row:  Pryse 

445  /)•  Ilaf :  Gau  godi  'r  dydd  Cynta  o  fai  or  ciauara    ...     .  n 
Cyn  diwedd  gwir  ifyiiiant  Gorphenna  Edw:  Morris 

448   Cerdd  merch  iw  chariad  a  reportiodd  i  gwrthod 

Glan  rianod  clowch  ar  datbd  cwyno  hynod  geii  i  o  h^d  .  .  o 
gaii  fwyn  gynar  ganiad  llafar  o  riw  alar  ar  ei  61. 

450       Fy  ffryns  am  cymdeithion,  perfFeithlwys  pur  fEyddlon     .  .  p 
^  ganu  it  fawl  ^fcsu  'n  felusol         Thomas  ILoyd  Penmaen 


Ctwybeu  duwiol  by  De.  John  Kent. 

453  ILyma  fyd  llwm  o  fedydd     .... 
ag  yrawrthod  ar  pechod  pwl* 

454  Gwii  nad  ta  gwae  enaid  tyn     .... 

a  bodd  duw  ar  bob  [yel  ni  bydd]  diwedd 

456       Prydd'lawn  iw 'r  corfE  pridd-lyd     .... 
heb  orphen  amen  un  inab  Mair. 

*  Attributed  also  to  lolo  Gocli. 


86  MOSTYN   MANUSCBIPT    130. 

459       Du-w  ^01-  y  duwiau  eraill     .... 
o  ddifydd  er  y  ddioddefawdd 

461  Vn  fodd  iw 'r  byd  cyngyd  eel     .     .     . 
rhai  a  gaifE  nefoedd  i  ^yd 

rhai  boenau  a  rhiw  benyd     .... 
liyd  na  lliw  nad  gwiw'n  gwaith 

462  Doe'n  gyfflybrwydd  i  daw     .... 
yn  aur  yno  ir  enaid 

464       Beth  a  g^iifE  Cristiwn  or  byd,     O  dir 
ag  angau  yn  ddiau  y  ddaw 

466  Myfyr  i  rwy  'n  ymofyn     .... 
gida  Mail'  i  g^d  Amen. 

467  Y  gwr  uwchben   goruwch  bj^d     .      .     . 
O  dduw  ne  madde  i  ni 


468       J  dduw  y  rwyf  weddiwr     ....  g 

rhai  'n  lew  gida  r  fEydd  newydd 
rhai  yn  ffest  gida  r  hen  fEydd 
ymlowio  cair  mal  y  cwn 
ym  hob  peii  y  mae  piniwn     .... 
ni  son  am  offeren  y  sul 
na  chyfFes  mwy  na  cheffyl 
ni  all  dduall  a  ddowaid 
ynte  yn  fiwl  etto  ni  fEaid     .... 
gair  duw  fab  a  greda  fi  Sion  Brwynog 

470  Cywydd  yn  erbyn  Pabyddieth 

Pe  da  oedd  y  byd  a  f  J^ .  h 

bau  oedd  heb  i  wybyddj^     .... 

beth  a  dal  ir  diofala 

bod  yn  ddall  ar  byd  yn  dda 

nid  yn  ddall  fEol  heb  olwg 

ond  yn  ddall  drwy  ddeall  drwg 

dyna  ddallder  arferwyd 

delwe  oedd  well  na  duw  Iwyd     .... 

ni  all  angel  penfelyn 

na  llu  o  saint  ddim  lies  in     ...     . 

a  nef  iu  heneidie  yn  61        Gr.  ab  Evan  ab  IL'n  Vauglian 

473       Pwy  sj>  ben  yn  passio  byd  ?     .     .     .     .  i 

yn  fab  duw  ja  dduw  yn  ddyn  Hugh  Lewis* 

475  Diharebion  sathredig 

Adwyog  cae  anhwsmon     .     ,     .     ,  k 

Yr  hai  a  laddodd  yr  hwch 

476  Darn  o  goicydd  SfC. 

Och  ddj^n  balch  heddiw  'n  y  byd  &c.  t 

b.  Mae  balchder  llawer  yn  lliwio  iw  gilydd  &c.  »» 

c.  Rhinweddau  llyssiau  ai  llun  ai  graddau  &c.  n 

d.  O  erw  i  gant  i  ra  gwr  Ac.  o 
«.  Gwlych  yn  ei  waed  golch  yn  wyti  &c.  p 

f.  Trowch  wineb  at  drychanyn  &c.  q 

g.  Gwyn  i  fyd  rhyd  yd  lie  rhodio,  'r  dyn  &c.  r 

'  Y  gwr  a  dr6dd  Perl  mewn  adfyd  yn  Gymraeg. 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   130.  87 

h.       y  ddweto  a  fynno  o  fau,  Am  arall  &c.  a 

i.       fe  j  Sion  o  Fon  fenaid,  fwy  nag  ych  &c.  L 

li.       Ehiw  ddyn  ai  golyn  iw  gSg,  Ar  i  ddant  &c.  c 

I.       Os  bym  dincerdd  cliworwgerdd  chwj^th  &c.  d 
477    Cowydd  yn  erbyn  Medd-dod 

Barus  iw  'n  gwlad  gwiriad  gau     ....  e 

Am  bechod  medd-dod  Amon  Edw:  Morris 

479   Cowydd  yn  erbyn  ofer  Lyfon 

Ar  ddwj>  Lech  ar  wydd  oi  law     ....  / 

di  faswedd  dy  wefussau.  Edtuard  Morris 

482  Cowydd  yn  erbyn  dilyn  Cwrw 

Y  Owrw  rhydd  Car  yr  heidden     ....  g 

a  thafarn  ddiffaith  hefyd  Rich:  Phyllip 

484  Cywydd  i  ofyn  March 

Gida  un  a  geidw  Wynedd     ....  h 

Merch  d^g  be  bae  march  iw  dwyn  Tydyr  Aled 

486  Oiodwl  Moliant  i  Rich:  John  greilon  o  Fuellt — un  o  loyr 
Gard  y  Frenhines  Elizabeth 

Richard  Sion  greilon  gwroleth  ILoegr  oil     ...  .  i 

einioes  i  Bisiart  nas  arhosodd  Jo'  Tudor 

489  Mind  ai  warthege  heb  fadde  ni  feiddiodd     ....  k 
crei  byd  iis  nef  charybdys  a  nofiodd 

490  Carol  ar  fessur  triban  J  ofyn  suit  o  ddillad  dros  sawdiwr 

gwrol 

Yr  hael-walch  gli,n  Oariadys I 

fe  werth  ei  gap  ei  hunan 


MS.  131.  liYVYR  Engltnion  Gelli  Lyvdy  from  the  Cors  y  Gedol 
Library ;  Paper  ;  7|  X  5|  inches ;  pages  3-164  and  1-874  ;  written  by 
John  Jones  of  Grelli  Lyvdy  between  160.5  and  1618,  bound  in  white 
vellum. 

Pages  3^140.  Byrdau  or  Bann  kyntaf  i  bob  Englyn  or  lyfyr  hunn, 
i.e  ,  an  Index  to  the  first  line  of  every  Englyn. 
Page  141-164.  Englynion  dycan  (Plaints). 
Page  1.  ILyfr  Sion  ap  Wiliam  ap  Sion  o  Englynion: 
Six  Eng:  Marwnad  Moesen  Powel  deon 

Moesen  ber  asven  or  brig  /  mae  eissiav     ....  m 

gwraidd  na  dysk  a  gerdd  yn  d'ol  Rrys  kain 

4  Six  Eng:  dychan  i  Jevan  ap  morgan  a  ffwl  oedd  ef,  a  dyn 
glwth  bwyteig  oedd  j 
Rrvmengawl  vffernawl  ffyrnig  /  yw     .     .     .     .  n 

gyw  lettraws  i  gallatra  Sion  Tvdvr 

6       Gorchymyn  at  vn  wyfc  wr     .     .     ■     .  o 

i  glos  bvn  heb  g— 1  ysbar./  Lewis  ap  Edwart 

8  Dwsing  o  Englynion  iw  tri  kariadev.j 

Tri  gwalch  tri  alarch  tri  eryr  /  tri  Hew     ...  p 

mewn  koed  heb  illwng  vn  ki./      Tair  ewig  o  sir  Dinbech 
II  Mol:  Merch  :  ifr  athrod  sorod  er  sorri  &c.  Anon  q 

13       Gwae  fi  gwn  godi  ym  gas  &c.  r 


g 
h 

i 
k 
ben  ef 


88  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    131. 

14  Dwyn  pil  ith  wegil  oth  ogan  &c.  a 

15  y  Slwt :  ffei  garnast  filiast  fowlyd  &c.  Sion  Tvdvr  b 

17  Enghjnion  ir  Misoedd 

Mis  ^onawr  myglvd  dyffrvn c 

a  derfydd  ynydd,  a  nos./  Eneirin  Gwowdrydd 

Page  23.  Englynion  ir  Eos  by  Sion  Tuder,  TV.  Kynwal,  W.  ILyn, 
Richard  escob  Myniw,  Rob:  Gr:  ap  Jeiian,  Bartholin'  Jones,  Hvw 
ILyn,  and  Elis  ap  Rys  ap  Edwart. 

29  J  Domas  Gowldwell  escob  llan  Elwy  A.D.  1556 

ffynon  avr  eigion,  rowiogaicfd d 

kad  hwnn,  ni  ddamvnwn  mwy.  /  Sion  Tvdvr 

Englynion  J  Katring  Jvans  (30)  ;  i  Elin  Pilstwn  o  wrexam  (32)  ; 
i  verch  (33) — all  anonymous. 

41  Pyscotwi-  wy,  mewn  pais  gwtta  &c.  D.  ap  Edmwnt  e 

b.  Melin  a  glin,  ac  aelwyd  a  fEont  &c.  „  „  / 

c.  Dwr,  tan,  awyr,  ser,  terra  &c. 

d.  Pais  las,  gown  glas,  rac  gloysion  &c. 

42  Penn  ddel  terfjsc,  ymysc  myrdd  &c. 
b.  Devair  am  gaidair,  ac  vn  /  cm  gene  &e. 

43  jf  Domas  Cricmicel  Arg:  Siawnsler  penn  dorred  i 

Tair  /  c  /  pedair  /  c  /  a  bair  son  /  yn  ILoeger     ....         I 

.  .  .  doe  gidwm,  dy  godiad  yn  arglwydd, 

a  heno,  trymgo  tramgwydd 

Crwmwel,  heb  na  sel  na  swydd       Howel  ap  Gr:  ap  Jthel 

50  Jr  anvdonwyr :  Heddiw  o  edliw  hynn  adiadd     ....      m 
dy  well  am  daenell  o  dir         Huw  ap  Risiart  ap  Dafydd 

54       Y  vorwyn  a  w  yn  dwyn  duu n 

i  dy  Ddvw  He  da  i  ddyn  Anon 

Pages  59-78.  A  seriesof  Englynion  of  a  flyting  character  between 
Gryifylh  ap  Nicolas,  Otcain  Dwnn,  and  Gr:  Bennrraw, 

Page  78.  Ag  velly  y  terfjDa  a  ysgrifenwyd  ar  ol  kyfri  I'oegr  pann  oedd  oed 
krist  /1589  /  30  ^animrii  o  goppi  a  yskrifcnnasei  L'n  ap  Math  /  i  m'  Edwart 
ystradling  /  au  :  do:  1567  /  a  minnav  ai  adyBkrifennais  o  law  Kosier  Morys  / 
1605  /. 

Pages  79-81.   More  Englynion  by  Gr:  ap  Nikolas  and  0.  Dwnn 

82  Dav  Eng:  Marwnad  Gr:  Hiraethog 

Amherffaith  iownwaith  enwog o 

Hiraethog  hwyr  weithiaw  kerdd  Anon 

84  Englynion  ir  blynyddoedd  drvdion  /  15g^ 

Er  kaethed  gweled  prvdd  galon  gwynfan     ....  p 

gwae  rrevdyssion  trvain 

ar  hob  yn  Brvthyn  ir  rrain 

trwy  och  hagr  er  (ri  chweigain    (see  US.  129,  pp.  194  &  207.) 

Mae  /  n/  gobaith 

y  kair  yr  hob  er  koron  /  Simwnt  Vychan 

88       Pwr  beth  a  gaiff  y  dyn  i  gyd q 

angav  yn  ddiav  a  ddaw 

Dolttor  Sion  Kent  o  law  Roesier  Morys  /  1606/ 


JOHN   JONES   GELLI   LYVDY.  89 

92       Heb  lyswyr  heb  gwyr  heb  gweirio  /  y  marw     .     .     .     .      « 
o  ddvw  deg  pa  vn  am  dyge 
ai  yr  hen  ffydd  ai  yr  newydd  ir  ne.  /    Hittin  grydd  1606 

118  Deg  Englyn  ir  deg  gorchymyn 

Geirie/r/   tad  gad  yii  dy  go/drwy  iniondeb  &c.        Anon  b 

127  Jr  anvdonior  :  Nid  tiflas  nid  kas  krokysswr  /  digllon     .     .      c 
tynn  lyfyr  odd  i  tan  ei  law  Sion  Tvdvr 

129  Englynion  dychan  i  Gr.  Hiraethog 

Krikied  kyw  kaened  kykynen  /  kostrel     ....  d 

kyw  chwil  y  kewch  ei  weled  Rraff  ap  Rrobert 

136  Rrobert  ap  ffan  i  dri  gelyn  enaid  dyn 

Byd  ffel  av  kythrel  fo  i  kaid e 

tri  meddig  trwyai  meddodd 

138  Jr  hafsych  156S 

Bv  loy  w/  r   hin  heb  law/  r  /  rrawg  &c.  fV.  Kynwal  f 

142       Elin  wedd  iesin  ddewisol     ....  g 

nad  fi  dros  gof  dy  ras  gwen  Anon 

144  Moliant  gardd  plas  Mysoglen 

ond  hardd  a  vydd  gardd  a  gwaith     ....  h 

ai  gwnaeth  ar  waith  kyfraith  kor  Rrobert  ap  Jevan 

148  J^'    Plas   newydd   a  seiliodd  Owen   Rrywtwn   yn  y  kerrig 

llwydion  yngolfftyn  ar  dir  y  Bithels,  1515. 
Bendigid  Dvw  llirig  oil  arwydd     ....  i 

YngowlfFdyn  ynn  yn  anuedd  Robert  ap  Jevan 

149  Ni  charav  Ddvwiav  ni  chad     ....  k 
dy  ddengair  ynnydd  angav                                Sion  Brwynog 

152  Jr  vrenhines  mari,  ag  i  iarll  warioig  j  ag  ir  hen  offrennev 

Mavi  yn  y  Dvwmarea/o  gehvydd  I 

galwvd  yn  dractvres 

fo  wnai  wlad  a  fynnai  les 

varw  honn  yn  vrenhines 

ni  wnn  i  vod  o  ddefod  dda 

Dvw/n/  bvr  ond  yn  y  bara./ 

hirddydd  a  gaiff  ei  hvrddas./  Anon 

156  Ir  waiorddydd : 

Dowaid  galon  doiin  bob  dydd  /  awch  odieth     ....       m 
a  llais  gwayiddyais  gwawrddydd./    Rrydderch  ap  Risiart 

160       ILe  i  kerais  dan  f'ais  nid  yw  vydd     ....  n 

fynghariad  gwir  ddeiad  gwawrddydd./    Robert  ap  Jevan 

\  64       TreiFynnon  dirion  lie  da  i  weryd  /  klaf    ....  o 

kroywddwr  kry  ennaint  daioni 
pair  i  echrys  pvr  achri 
heb  gel  ymadel  a  mi     ...     . 
dro  gwiw  ras  ai  drigaredd  Anon 


Englynion  by  Rrobert  ap  ^evan  : 

166       Bronfraith  periaith  or  pvva     ....  p 

klav  gwiw  yw  modd  keliog  main 

169       Pennaeth  yw  Sion  hap  aned  /  ar  dannav     ....  q 

krwth  a  swn  mawr,  krwth  Sion  Mon 


90  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   131. 

b.  J  Elis  ap  Rrisiart  ap  Morys  R,  ap  fevan 

Elis  Hew  dilis  lie  i  delycli     ....  a 

Gofyu  fEonn  linon  olav     .... 
a  roddai  help  ar  rodd  hwnn 

171  f  Harri  ap  Dd  i  erchi  hyngrod  ne  ystyllod  dirwyn  i  Annes 

Y  glain  nod  pennod  hap.iownwydd     ....  fi 

dwyn  swydd  yn  benna  dan  ser./ 

175  fr  ddaeargryn  llSISJ  26  ChwefroLj 

178  Mr.  Owain  [Briwtwn]  glain  gwivsr  aliwn     ....  c 
hardd  lain  o  Ednowain  wyd./ 

Moliant  Annes  verch  Hvw  ai  phlant 

179  Dvw  diolclied  a  tlialed  i  etholion d 

a  byth  wrth  ei  bodd  i  bon 

180  Er  kvr  a  dolvr  er  dialedd // a  phoen     ....  e 
am  weled  Uiw  dy  wiw  wen 

kawn  fagad  mewn  konfigen 

182       Owain  a  Hvw,  Dvw  iawndaith     ....  f 

gras  Je;sv  gras  iaswyn./ 

185     Moliant  plus  Bodowyr  IS"! 2 

Glasdy  mayn  siastys  va&elnl  syth     ....  g 

batrwn  avr  yn  ei  bwttri 

188       Gwaith  tvrnor  Tryssor  lie  i  trwssiwyd     ....  h 

yw  y  bonedd  heb  annod 


198  Jr  arglwydd  lywelyn 

Dowed  wi'tli  Aeron  galon  galed  » 

mai  myfi  yw  Gronw  gyfrfab.  Ednyfed 

pe  i  bawn  byw  gid  am  llyw  nis  lleddid  // 

mor  rhwydd  //  heb  waed  ar  orwydd  gyfrwydd  j^yfred 

Koffa  benn  percheu  parehedic  //  yw  lys 

a  las  uos  nadolic  ^ 

koffa  y  golwyth  or  Mwythic 

or  tan  a  roddes  naid  tic 
Dowaid  ith  arglwydd  rhwydd  rhwyddwas 

vod  llv  dvried  yn  aros 

nad  kyfrwydd  karv  kares 

nid  hwy  ennyd  b}'d  no  bys 
Vyngharw  gvvynn  bannoc  penhyddgad  // 

y  llv  //  llvric  Ddvw  am  danad 

saf  ar  garn  o  ddiarnad 

syll  ar  goed  briwgyll  rrac  brad 

211  Moliant  Simwnt  Vychan  i  Kloddaith 

Gloddaith  avr  oddaith  o  wreiddion     ....  ^ 

kor  adiaeth  kaer  Evda     .... 

Krevddyn  lie  mae/r/  ddevddyn  dda       Simwnt   Vychan 

213  Henwae  y  brenhinoedd  a  vv  wedi/r/  konkwest 

Wiliam  a  Wiliam  eilwaith  //  a  Hari     ....  I 

Elsbeth  ddawii  kyfiawn  i  kas./ 

Rhys  Goch:  gwr  a  heuyw  o  gylch  tir  Gwent 
215       Kafod  a  thafod  ac  eithafion //     ....  m 

e  vv  well  o  bell  bwyllaw 

ac  a  vydd  rhvw  ddydd  a  ddaw  /  Simwnt  Vychan 


JOHN  JONES   GBLLI  LYVDY.  91 

216       Anvdon  dynion  daw  ennyd     ....  a 

Dvw  mawr  ni  vynn  dym  arian 
gidar  gwir  i  gadw/  r/  gwann./  Sion  Tvdvr 

218       Nid  oes  neb  heb  i  fai./  b- 

Vo  aeth  y  gwii-  on  tir  an  lai     .     .      .     . 
ni  wnn  fod  tafod  di  fai     .     .     .     . 
na  all  draw  beidiaw  a  bai  Anon 

225       Nid  oes  awch  einioes  ni  chad  //  daioni     ....  c 

beth  y\v  diwedd  pob  gweddi 
end  Dvw  dy  nawdd  yn  tad  ni     Davydd  Glyndyfrdwy 

250  DychaniRvff:  Hiraethocj  [a/*o  pp.  107;  130;  225] 

Bras  frog  brav  bolioc  byrr  bowlyd  //  banel  d 

bannog  brwnt  Uedynfyd 
bowl  yw  i  gorff  bol  i  gyd 
bwl  afradlon  half  rydlyd./  '  Raff  ap  Robert 

253  Gwrol  tragwrol  trigaroc  //  wrol     ....  e 

ni  bv  tragwrol  na  bai  trigaroc  Tvdvr  Aled 

254  fr  henffydd  ac  ir  Eglwyssi 

Kwynwn  kwyn  wylwn  kynn  elawr  //  kann  och  /  / 

kawn  achwyn  vwch  allawr 

kwyn  am  aberth  gerth  goelfawr 

kwympio/r/  eglwys  Iwys  i  lawr./     .... 

ni  char  Sais  och  ar  y  siad 

YfEeren  nac  Yffeiriad     .... 

mae  korff  Dvw  byw  vel  i  bv./  Anon 

258       Eglwys  wych  dilewirch  diliwiaut     .     ,     .     .  g 

ac  yna  mi  a  wela  i  wedd./  „ 

272       Abad  mvl  brychiad  moel  broch     ....  h 

nac  a  phwrs  gwag  a  Phirs  goch  T.  Aled 

279  Jr  ddaeargryn  15T^ :  Mil  pvnikant  profiant  pob  rhi  //  .  .  .  { 
a  Dvw  a  wyr  i  deall./  Hvw  Tomns 

283  J  Jevan  ap  Gr:  leia  am  na  chysgei  yn  yr  vn  gwely  ar  bardd. 

Gwybydd  lo  trefydd  aelie  tryfer     ....  k 

darn  arall  yn  dyrnorion./  Gvttor  Glynn 

286  Moliant  y  vrenhines  Elsheth 

Elsbeth  gwawr  ddifeth  gwyr  ddofi // gelyn //       .     .     .     .     I 

vrddas  y  dyrnas  ai  dawn     .... 

ami  aeth  i  honn  mal  i  thad./  ■    '  Anon 

295       Dydd  da  yt  Sion  dirion  wyt  wrawl     ....  m 

bytho  Iwk  mab  Jthel  wynn./  Edivart  ap  Raff 

312       Ohware  siack  a  thybacco//a  bir     .     .     .     .  n 

nawdd  Dv^v  rhac  i  fwc  vo./ 

315  Rhobert  Jevans  iffowk  llwyd  o  Ian  Cynhafal 

Dewraidd  a  mwynaidd  ym  wyd     ....  o- 

dros  gyllell  dair  oes  gwelliant./  R.  jfevans 

323  Sion  Mowddwy  i  Hvw  ap  W"  Benet.j 

Pan  eloch  gwyddoch  dan  ged     ....  p 

amlwc  krair  voi  keumyl  Icred./  S.  Mowddwy 

314  f  Domas  3Iiltion :  Mae/n/ ILanvair  vowrair  am  varwn  .  .  .  y 
bid  drvt  y  byd  troiedic./  Ed.  ap  Raff 

Ac  fai  hynn  y  terfyna  y  lyfr  hvinn  y  26  dyd  o  fis  mourt  oet  krist  //  1612  // 


92  MOSTYN   MANU:3CRIPT   131. 

328      Ye  ail  eann  oii  Lyfr  Englynion  hunn. 


John  Jones. 

In  this  Second  part  the  Englynion  are  arranged  in  alphabetical  order. 

357  '   Anodd  yw  dysgv  anoeth,  a  djsc  a 

yw  mddiddan  a  doeth  :  &c.  T.  Aled 

359  J  Alis :  Ar  hynn  y  gellir  raowrhav     ....  b 

yderyn  dyryn  diwall  bobl  lolo  Goch 

368  Bvm  draw  ya  treiglaw  trwy  oglai.9  //  y  byd  ....  c 
a  thew  gaiadlwyn  a  thvy./  Davydd  Nanmor 

392         Terfyn  y  /  30  /  dydd  o  Bagfyrr  .  1613. 

401       Deffro  Dwm  gidwm  gedyrn     ....  d 

myn  Pvw  a  minne  nim  dawr  Dafydd  Nanmor 

404       Dydd  varu  dydd  kadarn  y  dydd  y  kodwa     ....  e 

ag  eilwaith  drwy  dy  galon./  Gwerfyl  Mechain 

422       Devgaint  a  mil  myn  dvgain  oed  Dvw  / 

a  dwy  a  phedwar  vgain 

pan  las  ILewelyn  pavn  lain 

Y  mvellt  kynn  term  Owain  Anon 

424       Dvw  Def  Dvw/n/oref  Dvw  na,{  //D-vw  /n/evrgledd  g 

Ti'^-^l'al  arglwydd  gorvchaf 

Dvw  yw  y  mowyd  am  da£ 

Dvw  byth  nis  diobeithaf./  lolo  Goch 

b.      Dvw/n/  parch  Dvw/n/   kyfarch  Dvw/n/  ko  h 

Tivw/n/  meddwl  //  Dvw/n/  madde  in  dybio 

Duw  byth  ir  wy/n/  dy  obeithio 

nim  kair  lieb  Ddvw  nef  im  ko./  Gr.  Gryg 

427  Adeilwyd  Klochdy  TLan  Drillo  yn  Rhos  nev  Dinerth  1552 
457       Eioion  pa  Enion,  i  pinwn  &c.  T.  Aled  i 

b.  Er  ffrydiav  gweliav,  gloywon  &c.  „      „    k 

c.  Edrychais  hyllais  hvU  overwyr  &c.  D.  ap  Edmwnt  I 

465       Garvrvlin  gvr  drahlin  gwrdrwbl  &c.  „  „        m 

475       Golwyth  hvdnwy  gwlith  hednaid  &c.  Z).  ap  Gwilim  n 

482       Gwilied  bawb  bob  gwlad  i  boch  o 

OS  lloer  las  y  llawr  a  wlych 
OS  or  gwynt  y  hi  sydd  goch 
vn  wenn  sydd  o  anian  sych  Grvffydd  Hiraethog* 

P.  482,  6.  Gvtto  r  Glyn  pan  aeth  yn  hen  aeth  yn  ddall  ac  yna  y 
kymerth  abed  llynegwestl  ef  ir  vynachloc  i  dario  yno  tra  vai  vy w  :  ac 
ychydic  o  vlaen  i  varw^ef  a  gysgodd  byd  yn  ol  banner  dydd  ac  yno  y 
deffroes  ac  y  govyunodd  ir  llank  oedd  yn  i  wasnevthv  beth  oodd  hi  or 
dydd  ac  a  ddyfod  yntev  i  bod  hi  gwedi  hanner  dydd  a  bod  yr  abad  ar 
ddiwedd  kinio :  ac  yno  y  dywad  Gvtto  pam  na  chlowswn  i  y  klych  yn 
kanv  :  pam  na  chlowswn  i  ganv  yr  organ  :  sef  a  attebodd  i  was  :  ef  a 
ganwyd  y  klych  yn  ddfgon  vchel  ef  a  ganwyd  yr  organ  hevyd  :  chwi  a 
alleesech  i  klowed  :  ac  yna  y  kanodd  Gvtto : 

Gwae/r/  gwann  dav  oedran  nid  edrych//  p 

ni  chwardil//ni  chei-dda  led  y  rrych 

gwae  ni  wyl  yn  gynnilwych 

gwae  ni  chlyw  organ  na  chlych  lolo  Goch 

*  Attributed  to  Dd.  Nanmor  (p.  496)  with  a  slight  variation. 


JOHN  JONES  QELLI   LYVDY. 


93 


487       Gyrraist  tueddaist  vi  om  tyddyn  &c. 
492       Gvttvn  Owain  gain  gwyr  kwynaw  &c. 

508  Gore  i  ddyn  gweddyn  gweddol  //  didwyll 

doedyd  yn  rrysymol 

gair  drwc  a  wna  wg  yn  ol 

gaii-  da  a  wna  gwr  diwiol 

509  Hir  ordderchv  mvrsen,  hir  gas  Ac. 

510  Hiri  hwyr  gwaytha  gwas  &c. 

511  Hyllais  pan  welais  hoUwyr  ofer  &c.     ^ 

513  Hanner  pais  hynn  a  wyr  pawb  &c. 

514  Jr  sehon  :  Hawddvyd  ir  byd  a  welson 

golchi  yn  wyn  heb  ddim  or  sebon* 
a  chmyscv  dwr  a  llvdw 
a  golchi  yn  Ian  a  hwnnw./ 

517       Harddlech  a  Dinbecli  pob  dor // yn  kynnev 
Nankonwy  yn  varwor.  / 
mil  a  phedwarkant  im  ior 
a  thrvgain  ac  wyth  rhagor./ 

526       Hawddamor  bob  awr  bybyrwaith  <fec. 

540  Jt  na  vynn  Dvw  gwynn  dygnwaith  &c. 

541  jfthael  fel  gefel  a  gair  &e. 

554  Koffa  vn  pendefig  a  las  &c. 
b.       Kais  winw.yn  mynydd  &c 

555  Knawd  fydd  i  gybydd  He  gwibio  &c. 
564       Krog  a  nogiwch  yn  vwch  &c. 


TV.  ILyn  a 
Anon  b 


W.  Kijnwal 
T.  Aled  d 

71  )»  ^ 

D.  ap  Gwilyni  f 

D.  ap  Edmwnt  g 

h 


Anon 

r.  Aled  k 

Ed:  Prys    I 

D.  ap  Edmwnt  in 

lolo  Goch  n 

Dd.  Naninor  o 

S.  Vychan  p 


D.  ap  Edmwnt  q 

Page  565.  Davydd  ap  Gr:  ap  IL'n  ap  ]fer:  Drwyndwn  pan  ddi- 
henyddwyd  yn  Amvythic  ac  wrth  i  ddihenyddv  y  kymerth  y  kigidd  i 
galon  ac  ai  tafles  ir  tan  ac  a  neidiodd  y  galon  or  tan  ac  a  drawodd  y 
kigidd  ar  i  lygad  ac  a  dynnodd  i  lygad :  a  Harri  IV.  a  ysgrif ennodd  at 
argl:  Grae  o  Rvthvn  i  erchi  iddo  ef  trwy  ryw  ystryw  vradychv  Owen 
Glyndwr.  /  ac  yno  y  gyrrodd  arg:  Evthvn  at  Owain  i  ddoedvd  iddaw  y 
byddai  yn  kiniawa  gidac  Owain  y  dydd  ar  dydd  :  ac  yr  attebodd  Owain 
y  bydde  roessaw  wrthaw  oni  ddygai  gidac  ef  vwch  benn  dengwr  ar 
hvgain  :  ac  a  ddoeth  yr  arg:  yn  yr  oed  terfynedic  ac  ychydic  kwmpeini 
gidac  ef  (a  gallv  mawr  yn  arfoc  tan  lech  yn  dyfod  ar  i  ol)  a  phan  aeth 
Owen  i  giniawa  ef  a  ossodes  wersyll  ar  benn  brynn  i  wersylly  tra  vyddai 
Owen  ar  ginio./  a  phan  oedd  ywain  ar  ganol  kiniaw  nychaf  y  gwelynt 
y  gwersyllwyr  lonaid  y  ddol  heb  enni  o  wyr  arfoc  a[c]  y  doedassant  i 
|olo  Goch  i  rvbyddio  Owain  ac  yna  y  doeth  i  mewn  kanys  didyb  oedd 
ef  ac  y  kanodd  ar  ddamec  yr  eng:  rhybydd  yma  ar  ostec  rhac  tybied  yr 
argl:  vod  twyll  ynddo  :  er  bod  yr  argl:  yn  dallt  traethawd  kymraec  nid 
oedd  ve  yn  dallt  yn  mydyr  ni./ 

Koffa  benn  a  lien  a  lly wenic // lys  r 

a  las  DOS  Nadolic 
kofEa  golwyth  Amwythic 
or  tan  a  neidiodd  naid  die./  (also  pp.  198, 554,  and  557) 


*  Soap  was  evidently  almost  an  unknown  article  at  the  time,  judging  by  the 
prejudice  displayed  against  it  in  the  preface  and  Englyn. 


■94  mgStyn  manuscript  131. 

575  J  Dwm  Tegid  i  beri  iddd  ganv  mol:  a  gwrthod  a  dychan.j 

kan  -weddvs  velys  voliant//i  wyrda  a 

kai  ordyr  a  fiyniant 
ffiedd  heb  duoedyd  fvaut 
yw  datkan  dychan  gan  dant 

[  WJ]  Morgan  esgoh  IL.  Elwy 

598       Lafn  glan  o  arian  ai  yrru  &c.  D.  ap  Gwilim  h 

b.       Lvn  pel  lun  bogel  a  bigvyd  &c.  T.  Aled  c 

■600       Les  byd  yu/r  /  iechyd  or  goruca  &c.  ^.  Goch  ^  d 

606  Oieen  Glyn  Dwr's  rising  in  llfOO,  and  death  in  11^15. 

Mil  a  phedwar  kant,  heb  ddim  mwy  e 

pen  godes  keidwad  glyn  Dyfrdwy 
a  phymthec  praff,  i  safEwy 
i  bv  Owain  hen  heb  fyw/n'/  hwy 

615  Eng:  ir  kornwyd  hynta  a  vv  erioed  ynghymrv  y  vlwyddyn 
honno  y  ganed  Owen  glyn  dwr.  /  'IS^p. 
Mai'wolaeth  a  w,naeth  Dvw  naf // anwedig //  f 

pan  vv/r/    no'dav  gyntaf 
mil  a  thrychant  gwarant  a  gaf 
naw  a  devgain  ytygaf./  ' 

618       Mi  a  welais  ddydfl  ir  march  &c.  ILowarch  Hen  [?]  g 

622  Mae  gwr  ymwaijcwr  in  mysc  &c.  £>.  ap  Gwilim  h 
b.       Mwdran  mwllgamlam  mwllgymale  &c.  „  „  j 

623  Mi  ath  grerais  kredais  kriadvr  &c.  S.ffylib./  k 
654  Mateu,  ]fenan,  Pedyr,  Matias  &c.  D.  Nanmor  I 
656  Mr  Bugan  meun  Ian  a  lys  &c.  Gi\  Hiraethog  m 
678  Ni  syrthiodd  deigr  disyrth  ach  &c.  D.  ap  Gwilim  n 
693  "  J  varged  Salbri  fy  nain  i  mam  yn  had — John  Jones." 

O  dei  i  Lvnden,  ddyn  landeg  //  i  drigo  &c.  T.  Aled  o 

697       0  gwely  di  wr  koch  kam  « 

yn  ymofyn  y  gyrnig  wenn 

dywaid  y  bod  hi  yn  ochyr  glynn 

a  nod  y  glo  ar  y  ffenn./  Owen  Glyndwr  (!)./     .: 

699       Or  swyddav  diav  wedi  devir  ir  byd  &c.  T.Aledq 

722       Pvm  llais  nis  kerais,  llais  y  koriaid  &c.  „      ,  '    r 

725   Vn  1541  y  llosges  eglioys  Gilkain. 

730       Pam  y  bras  gwydd  las  ar  lynn  &c.  D.  ap  Edmwnt  s 

753       Rhodiais  tre  fynuais,  trwy  fannav  &c.  ,  t 

1b4.       Rhy  ddrwg  yw  d'englyn  ry  ddrel  &c.  T.  Aled  u 

756  Englyn   i  waets  syr    Tomas  Mostyn,  sef  yw   waets  Mock     ■ 
byrhan  yw  arwain  mewn'  poked. 
Rrvw  glekwas  dyrras  yn  taro  <&c.  S'  Hvw  Roberts  v 

765       Svr  yw  di  bibe  heb  svtt  &c.  D.  ap.  Edmwnt  w 

-b.  Eng:  Marwnad  i  Sion  Eos  penkerdd  graddol  yr  hwnn  a  her- 
wydd  tra  chas  ac  ychidicfai  a  ddihenyddwyd  yn  swydd 
y  Wavn  am  ladd  gwr  mal  y  tystiolaetha  y  cowydd 
marwnad  a  ganodd  Davydd  ap  Edmwnt  iddaw,  a  phan 
oedd  ef  ar  yr  yscol  yn  myned  yw  ddihenyddv  ef  a 
alwodd  am  ei  delyn  ac  a  ddyehmygodd  gaink  o  qerdd 
ac  ai  hanodd  ami  ac  a  elwir  y  yaink  honno 


JOHN   JONES   GELLI  LYVDY. 


95 


Kaink    Sion    Eos./ 
Siou  Eos  yn  vnnos  a  wnaeth  // 
oi  ganiad  //  i  gannyu  ddwyn  hiraeth 
ac  ar  ol  i  varwolaeth 
i  ganv  i  Ddvw  gwynn  ydd  aeth.  / 
768       Svl,  Gwener,  Mercher  am  wavcliad  &c. 

770       Sandde  gyrr  y  vran 

odd  i  ar  wyueb  dvran 

kv  anwyl  i  magodd  i  vam./ 

772       Syr  Edward  Pilstun  sy  rydain  &c 

783  Tawy  tra  tawy  towyn  gwmpas  &c. 

784  J  varged  ferch  Rys  ap  Kynrig  ap  Robert 

Ti  a  gai  od  ai  i  von 
basteiod  o  bys  dvon 
a  thv  o  bridd  a  tho  brwyn 
a  thanllwyth  o  eithinllwyn 

785  Tri  heb  i  gcni  a  ganan  &c. 


D.  Nanmor  b 
c 

Arthvr 
T.  A  led  d 
D.  ap  Gtcilim  e 

f 


Dd.  ap  Edmwnt 

T.  Aled  g 

786  Gr:  ap  Nikolas  pann  oedd  yn  vrowdwr  ar  yr  avian  dlyssav 
a  barodd  ir  prydyddion  vyned  pawb  or  neilltv  a  chanv 
englyn  ac  na  chane  neb  ar  destyn  i  gilydd :  Davydd  ap 
Jemwnt  a  enwodd  bob  peth  a  ellid  kanv  arno  val  na 
allai  neb  arall  ganv  i  ddim  heb  ganv  ar  i  destyn  e_f./ 
Tan  awyr  Uwrf,  dwryf  daiarfa  &c.  h 

794       Tri  pheth  meun  kantir  a  hoffa  &c,  Gr:  Hiraethog    i 

805       Vy  newis  beth  er  yn  was  li 

merch  i  estron  a  march  glas 
a  heddiw  uid  ynt  gyfaddas  JLowarch  Hen 

826       Ymbedwar  prW  gas  erioed  I 

a  gyvarvv  a  mi  yn  vnoed 

pas  //  a  henaint  //  haint  //  a  hoed./  K,:  Hen 

829       T  bryd,  a  gyvyd  or  gwellt  &c.  T.  Aled  m 

b.      Y  vran,  ar  ddwy  hossan  vratt  _&c.  Gr:  Hiraethog  n 

843       Tm  by  v  kyd  baen  haelion  o 

avar  ir  byd  bod  hebddvn 
Uawer  o  blant  teg  llawen 
a  heno  rwyf  vy  hvnan 
Ytnhedrain  rriain  yn  rriw  &c. 
Yssubub  or  bobl  ansyber  &c. 


846 

870 

872 


ILow:  Hen 
D.  ap  Gwilim  p 

dyd  0  fis 


Ag  fal  hyn  y  terfyna  y  kysefin  lyfr  Englyuion  hunu  y 
Aust  oed  Crist  :   1618  : 

873  Ag  fal  hyri  y  glan  derfyna  y  kyssefia  lyfyr  Englyuion  hunn  y  :  25  : 

0  Vaurt:   1640  : 

874  John  Jones. 

There  are  englynion  also  by  the  following  authors  on  the 
pages  enumerated  after  their  names  : — 

Anomjmous,S4.-5 ;  92;  124;  125;  129;  131-3;  140,6,7; 

165,  7,   8;  173-7;  189;  191,  6-9;  200,5-6;  207-11  ; 

221-2,  4;  229;  231,  5,  8;  244,   7,  9;  258;  261-70,  3, 

7-9;    281,   5,  6,  9;    290;    300,  2;  318,   9;  320,  1,  5; 

330-40.     Anwyl  and  Bardd.     See  Lewis  and  Dwyran. 
Badda,  Doctor,  576  ;  Bleddyn  tvas  i  gtcd,  335. 
Beinon,  Wiliam,  856.     Cvttvns.     See  Sion  Q-, 


96  MOSTYN   MANUSCKII'T   131. 

Byrsinsia  vel  Byrshinshaw,  Wm.,  58  ;  368. 

Davjdd  Alaw,  252-3  :  ap  H'n,  82 :  ap  Howel  ap  H'n,  719. 

„         ap  Eobert,  800  :  ap  Sion,  617  :  du  o  Hiradug,  721. 
llwyd  ap  Gr.,  313. 
ap  ft'n  ap  Gr.,  443,  464,  606 ;  o  lal,  646. 

„         meredydd,  836  :  Veddic,  435,  771. 
Deio  ap  lefan  ddu,  488  :  Dwyran,  Bardd,  481 ;  684. 
Dwnn,  Twain,  61-2,  5,  6 ;  510. 
Ednyfed  Vychan,  363. 
Edward  ap  Griffith,  241. 

„        „  lefan  ap  H'n  Vvchan,  104-6 ;  244;  251-2;  400; 
605;  789;  832;  857. 
„  Eaff,  297;  302,4;  329;  461  ;  550;  704. 
„        Brwynllysg,  676. 

„       Maelor,  250,  432,  476,  494,  581,  711,  761,  779,  851. 
Edwards,  David,  241. 
Einion  ap  Gwalchmai,  230,  667. 
Elis  ap  Erys  ap  Edward,  109 :  Elis  Drwynhir,  667. 
Gethin.     See  Griffith  and  Lewis. 
Griffith  ap  ^euan,  505  :  ap  Nikolas,  61-5  :  ap  Eobert,  40. 

„       „    Twain  Gethin,  406  :  Gr.  Bennrraw,  62-6. 
Grvffydd,  Davydd,  305  :  Huw  Gr.,  705,  770. 
Gvtto  moel,  456  :  Gwenhwyfar  verch  Ho'l  ap  Gr  :  530. 
Gwilim  ap  Sefnyn,  846 :  Gwilim  Geflin,  223. 
Harri  ap  Tomas  ap  Wiliam,  665. 

Hittyn  Grydd,  366,  612,  636,  683,  745,  778,  795,  826-7,  833. 
Howel  ap  Gr:  ap  Ithel,  409. 

„    Syr  Mathew,  350,  486,  497,  551,  722,  847. 

„      Bangor,  121-4 ;  466,  491,  503,  592,  671,  712,  869. 

„      Velyu,  806. 
Huw  ap  Dd.  ap.  Ithel,  112,  831  :  ap  Ervs  Wynn,  155,  6. 

„      ,;  Sion,  505  :  Huw  Griffith,  705,  770. 

„     Kae  ILwyd,  82  :  Huw  Madoks,  556,  756. 
levan  Esgob,  700  :    levan  ILafar,  126. 

„      ILwyd  SiafEre,  333  ;  Syr  levan  llwyd,  716. 
levans.     See  Eobert  and  Thomas. 
Jones,  Dd.,  Vicar  Dyffryn  Klwyd,  276,  ?291,  ?  717. 

„      Owen,  421  :  Syr  Edward,  628  :  Tomas  Jones,  610. 
Kyffin,  Eoesier,  232,  4. 

Kynrig,  Dai,  354 :  Kynwrig,  Hanmer,  103,  358. 
Kynwal,  William,  134,  8  ;  330-1,  342,  413,  423,  487,  509, 

517-8,  570,  672,  707,  749,  811,  832,  855,  870. 
Lewis  ap  Edwart,  139,  192,  452,  755.     See  Ehydderch. 

„      Anwyl,  syr,  136  :  syr  Lewis  Gethin,  190,  753. 

„      Manai,  306,  363,  698  :  Mon,  703  :  Lewis  Pedler,  161. 

„      y  defaid,  syr,  135  :  Hugh  Lewis,  284,  293. 
ILewelyn  ap  Guttyn,  729. 
ILyn,  Wiliam,  133,  309,  568,  574,  744,  797. 
Mathew,  Wiliam,  372.     Madohs.     See  Huw  M. 
Midlton,  Eobert,  680 ;  Miltwn,  58.     W"  Midlton,  680. 
Morgan  up  Howel,  624  :  ap  Tudur,  855  :  ap  Huw  Lewis,  736. 
Mort)dd  Esgob,  202,  228,  370. 
Morys  ap  Edwart,  272,  496 :  ap  lefan  ap  Einon,  400,  468. 

„       Berwyn,  478,  627,  637,  821. 

„       Kyffin,  559:  Morys  ILwyd,  561. 
Mostyn,  Pirs,  212. 
Owain  Meirig,  784:   O.  Gwynedd,  322,  626. 


JOHN   JONES   GELLI    LYVDY.  97 

Penllyn,  126.      Thomas  Ponllyii,  322. 
Parri,  Gabriel,  396  :  Prys,  William,  455. 
EafF  ap    Robeft,    100,  7,  8  ;  225  ;  338;  362;  376;  452,  5; 
464;  472;  659;  683;  694-5;  731;  741,4;  761  ;769;  855; 
858;  866. 
Ilhyderch,  syr,  419  :  Lewis  Rbyddorcb,  3  t6. 
Rbyddeich  ap  Icu:  ILwyd,  247  :  Rikart  ap  Robert  ap  Dd.,  750. 
Robert  ap  Dd.  ILwyd,  377  :  ap  Elis,  86,  108,  371,  H45. 

„    If;m,  134,6;  756  :  Rob.  Ivan,  126;  156:  Iovans,273. 
,,        „   ILewelyn,  552  :  R.  ap  Siankyn,  822. 
.,       Klydro,  355,  480,  701. 
Roberts,  D-^  Griffitb,  625. 

Rys  ap  Dd.  ap  Tvdvr,  98  ;  705,  8  ;  786  ;  ?  555. 
„     „    Einon,  673,  803  :  Rys  ap  Harri,  108. 
„     „    Sion,  104-6,  251,  407,  558. 
„    Dd.  ap  Ip.van,  709  :  Rys  Goch  or  Yri,  247-8. 
„    Kain,  240,2;  309;  540;  571;  595;  611;  662,  3;  677; 
743;   764;   807. 
Sian  verch  John  ap  Ithel,-  547. 

Sion  op  Dd.  ap  Howel,  135  :  ap  Edwart  o  Lanwddyn,  309. 
„     ,,    Howel,  253  ;  2:)8-300  :  ap  Wiliam,  688. 
„    Brwynoc,  345  ;  412  ;  531  ;  679  ;  868. 
„    Gvttvns,  o/S*;  465;  533;  838. 
,,    ILwyd  ap  Robert,  713. 
„    Meirion,  352;  428;  720. 
„    Morys  (1589),  217:  S.  Mowddwy,  738 ;  796. 
„    Mredydd,  201  :  S.  Teg,  652  :  S.  Tomas,  88. 
„     Tvdvr,    102;    113,  4,    6;    133,  9;   105;   240;  421  ;  433;. 
467;  500;  502;  541,  8,  9;  568;  610;  639;  696;  747; 
755,  7 ;  806. 
Simwnt  Vycbaii,  1 17  ;  201  ;  274  ;  301  ;  349  ;  353  ;  367  ;  426  ; 
487  ;  666 ;  726  ;  731 ;  739 ;  771 ;  81 1  ;  820  ;  841  ;  859  ; 
862,  4. 
Sipyn  Kyvelioc,  346. 

Thoma.s  ap  Edwart,  vVm.,  59,  311.     See  Sion. 
Tomos  ap  Dd.  ap  Rys,  488. 

.,      „    Madog  (gM-as  Henri  VIIL),  708. 
„      ;,   Morys,  499  ;  544. 
„      „   Sion  ap  Rys  o  Abcr  Chwilar,  317. 
„    Grytbor,  100;   112;   814;  829:  T.  Wmffic,  867- 
„    levans,  337,  597  :  Sion  Catti,  195  ;  673. 
Tvdvr  Peiillyn,  799:  Twm  Tegid,  340;  579;  627. 
Wiliam.     See  Kynwal,  ILyn. 

„     ap  lefan,  418,  9  :  425  ;  725  ;   759;   782. 

„       „  Rys  ap  Dd.,  97  ;  353  ;  490  ;  588 ;  627  ;  638  ;  818  ; 

848. 
„       „  Sion  Wynn,  23-3,  6;  24);  360. 
Wmffre  ap  Howel  ap  Sianldn,  831.     See  Thomas. 
Williams,  Syr  Sion,  547. 
Wynn  OB  Kadvvaladr,  Rhys,  373,  5. 
„       „  „  Robert,  177  ;  871. 


e     87130. 


98  MOSTYjSr   MANUSCRIPT    132. 

MS.  132.  Moral  Triads..  Proverbs,  and  Poetry  :  Paper  ;  8;^  x  6 
inches;  118  pages;  late  xvith  century;  bound  in  Russia  leather. 
This  is  apparently  a  composite  MS.,  -wanting  folios  6,  15,  19,  24,  28, 
158,  1G8.  Pages  3-44  are  marked  as  folios  4-30;  pp.  45-108  as  folios 
140-73;  pp.  109-11  as  folios  55-57;  pp.  115-16  as  folio  ?183.  On 
p.  116  we  read  "  Hugh  Wynn  est  verus  possessor."  Pages  1-12,117-18, 
are  slightly  imperfect. 

Page  1.  The  names  of  the  months  in  Latin  and  Welsh,  and  of  "  The 
four  wyndes"  in  English  and  Welsh. 

3   TLyma  driodd  Taliessin : — 
Tri   pheth    sydd  anawdd  i  kael  byth — Taeliwr  di  orwae,   mehnydd 
kywir,  Tafarnwraic  heb  arddichwant   &c.   &c.  .  .  .   ends  :    Tri  pheth 
chydymddaith  sydd  ir  diawl — Balchder,  Kynfigen,  A  lledrad.    ffinis. 

11       Na  waria  dy  dda  yn  ddywies  ar  iyn  a 

na  chiroh  lawer  wtres 

gwyr  rrydrayl  a  gar  rrodres 

gildia  lai  gwilia  dy  les 
Treilied  tra  gried  dyn  tragwrrol  byth 

beth  0  dda  persenol 

er     rroi  swm  yn  rrysymol 

nef  ui  ad  eisie  yn  i  ol  Anon 

11  Diarebion  hiffredtnal  yn  hymraiec  ar  rool  lleithrene* 

Abl  i  bawb  i  gidradd ends  (p.  44)  :  b 

Y   neb  a  vo  a    march    ar  i    helw  a    gaifE    venddic  march. 

45  -De  votii  (sic)   et    celibatii    clericoruin :    Vota    reddenda  de 
scriptura  docet  &c. 

57  The  twelve  sigiies  yn  the  tvealshe  metter 

Hwrdd  trwy  gyfwrdd,  tarw  gefell  &c.  c 

b.  TLyma  rol  i  gael  yr  enydd  {=ynyd=:shrovc-tide) 

Prif  0  brifiaw  ddaw  rryf  ddaw  ddydd  &c.  d 

c.  Uyma  roil*     i  gael  y  push 

Tridiav  o  svliav  y  sydd  &c.  e 

(/.    Y  pedwar  engelystor 

Mark  ywr  Hew,  glew  a  glowir  &c.  / 

58  Songas  made  by  famyoiis  wealshemen  of  syndrye  shorttc% 

Gwn  jia  ta  gway  enaid  Iyn     ....  g 

a  bodd  dvw  ni  bydd  diweild  Sion  Kent 

.A.f'rayd  i  ddyn  arbed  i  dda h 

ar  Ian  yno  ir  llywenydd  Syr  dafydd  Trefor 

63       Doy  yn  gyfflybrwydd  i  daw i 

yn  ir  avr  yno  ir  enaid  Mredith  aiJ  Rys 

Go       Ty  di  ddyn  tew  dy  ddoniav    -,,,..  k 

i  ddyn  dim  ai  ddvw  yu  ddig  Doctor  Sion  kent 

68       Pryddlawn  ywr  korff  priddlyd / 

heb  oiffen  amen  mab  mair  Sion  Kent 

The  folloiving  sarcastic  Englyn  is  on  margin  of  p.  69. 
Y  gwenith  iwr  gwan  vd  efrydd  m 

yr  efre  iwr  pvr  vd 
pwy  a  dybie  ar  fyr  enyd 
ir  rai  yn  benn  dinn  y  byd  Anon 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT    132.  99 

73       Kry  fyr  ywr  byd  rry  fawr  betli a 

lie  cawn  amyl  ywr  llan  yma  Sioii  Jient 

78       Pcrigyl  rryfel  ryfelbvvn     .     .     .     .     :  h 

eiricli  i  dda  i  arall  Sion  Kent 

■    SO       Di  gam  y  gwaith  dvw  gymwyll c 

duw  merclier,  myvyr  vvi-  inab  |[  (1.  IC;. 
^1       II  duarbed  y  gwiieth  dvw  ar  bab     ....  d 

fin  adda  o  flynyddoedd* 

52  Yma  yr  ys  yn  ymrysou     ....  e 
fy  nvw  a  roddo  net'  yu* 

85       Myddyliad  an  vddolic     ....  f 

w)th  raid  im  enaid    Amen  Howell  Kilan 

«7       Ua  doeth  o  fynnwes  dvw  dad     ,  •  .     .     .  g 

gwledd  i  mab  arglwydd  Amen  Dafydd  ap  Edmwnt 
89       Y  Tad  or  decbrevad  chw[y]rn .  h 

yn  rrydd  a  chwbwl  on  rraid  Slon  Kent 

SI       Y  Gwr  vwchben  goriwcb  byd     ....  i 

yma  dvw  nef  maddau  i  mi  Dafydd  ap  Rys 

53  Vn  fodd  ywr  byd  kyngyd  kel     ....  k 
hvd  a  lliw  nad  gwiw  yn  gwailb                             Sion  Kent 

96       Ystvdio  ddwy  was  didwill       ....  / 

asw  a  mi  jfetfv   Amen — imperfect.  „         „ 

100       ILyma  fydllwm  i  fedydd     ....  m 

a  rof  im  kyfaill  o  rran  Doctor  John  Kent 

103       Be  da  oedd  y  byd  a  fv     .     .     .     .  re 

a  nef  in  eueidie  yn  ol  Gr:  ap  Jeuan  ap  Wen  vachant 

108       Ym  fi  i  byriodi  drwy  ddygyn  been     ....  o 

ag  ym  been  nef  im  lienaid  Doctor  Ellis 

Page  109.  The  Assuranuces  thought  mett  by  the  donnes  in  tajde 
of  tbe  mano''  of  Whittonton  to  be  bad —  " 

Jn  pnmis  m''  albenye  shall  make  an  entrye  portioulein  in  eue;'y 
pfwcell  in  tayle 

■Jtem  sythen  the  conveyanuce  made  by  tbe  Erie  of  Arunndell  be 
conteyned  in  the  dede  of  tbe  gift  m  tayle,  soo  as  the  dede 
maij  not  be  cancelled  without  losse  of  the  benyfit  of  the  said 
■comvinnnte.?  [?  covenants]  Therfor  the  donnes  in  tayle  yoyntly 
or  seue;-aily  shall  levey  a  fyne  of  ther  portions  to  the  said  albenye 
or  ells  .shall  suffer  a  recouerie  agaynst  them  seuerally  to  the  use 
of  the  said  albenye  retynyng  ther  senio''  dedes  &e. 

110  ^  poejii  to  Seedanen   or  Sydanen  "  Devysed  ^-  Sett  forth  yn 
commendation  of  the  queues  hyhnes." 
Pfloe  statelye  Juno  samos  fro,  ^j 

ffrom  dealos  straight  dyana  go     ...     , 
Sydanen  conqueres  kyngs  wyth  quyll 
Sydanen  governnes  states  at  will 
Sydanen  scares  her  foes  wyth  penne 
wythe  peace  Sydauen  connqueres  mere     .... 
Wytho  goddes  Pandora  is  her  name 
wythe  me  pamphilia  is  the  same 

*  There  is  the  usual  space,  but  no  signature,  after  these  poems. 

G  2 


100  M05TYN    MANUSCRIPT    132. 

right  wher  slie  is  pansophia  stawlde, 

yn  wales  she  is  Sydanen  cald  : 

ffrom  brutus  steme,  from  dardan  lyne  &c.  &c.     lodwick  lloyd^ 

111   Another  poem  to  Queen  Elizabeth 

0  ^ovas  cbeffe  yn  ryall  seat     ....  a 

1  can  but  prayse  and  prayer  dysplaye 
Tliy  spottles  liff,  neuer  to  decay     .     .     . 

And  egillcs  quylle*  at  gode*  will  MerodMe  hanm&c 

Page  115.  De  confirmatioMe  :    Credit   catholica  ecclwia,  quod  sunt 
Apostoli  baptizati  sunt  &c.  (11  lines  in  all). 

Page  117.  Index  istins  voluminis  Secundi.     Page  118.  Blank. 


MS.  133.  Pkophecies,  etc.  :  in  prose  and  verse.  Paper;  8  X  5f 
inches;  pages  i.-xiv.,  1-656,  and  1-16;  bound  in  Eussia  leather. 
Pages  1-640  and  1-16  are  in  the  autograph  of  John  Jones  of  Gellb 
Lyvdy  (1606-1623) ;  the  other  pages  are  later,  and  by  several  hands. 
Pages  477,  524-26,  551-56,  597-601  are  blank.  Some  leaves  have- 
stuck  together,  and  some  chemical  in  the  ink  has  made  the  paper  so 
brittle  in  parls  that  it  is  in  a  crumbling  state, 
i.       A  vellum  leaf. 

iii.       When  James  shall  seeke  a  2*  crowen     ....  b 

&  this  the  tenth  &  last  shall  be/ 

V.  A  pvofesie  of  Tho:  Ashadoume  written  in  1356 

The  moone  obscured  sixiio  yeare  c 

shall  get  her  light  &  shyne  full  cleare 
The  time  shall  come  that  there  shall  be  shewed  many  strange  thinges 
first   the   preachinge  of  Traytors  ....  Prom  the   w'^''   Allmighty 
god  defend  &  bringe  vs  to  thy  blisse  Sweete  -fesus  / 

vi.       Sawl  sudd  a  ffleser  gantho/doed  unes/i/ wrando  ....        d 
duw  a  safe  gida  diaries  |  y  Brenin  ar  frenhines 
E  chida /!/ gingor  da  fo  sydd 
yn  kadw  ffydd  drwyr  /  r  /  dernes 

Os  Gofyn  neb  pwy  ai  gwnelo  |  niab  or  ffydd  heb  failio 
A  rhydd  y  korff  /c/ /i/  fflaid  |  tra  vo'r  enaid  ynddo. 

fhon  ap  Hugh 
ix.       The  tyme  will  come  as  true  as  the  creed  e 

of  priests  &  clarkes  we  shall  have  no  need     .... 
Tims  yuesseth  humphry  Tyndal  viker  of  TVellinger  of 
his  pvofesie.     [London  :  printed  for  J.  M.,  1642.] 

xii.  ProphwydoUath  S'  Tho.  Aeheccet  Archeshob  Canterburie 
...  a  gaed  yn  hen  scrythyr  yn  ddiweddar  yn  Abinglon  trwy 
Dd'  Awlsw'th :  y  JilLe   a  gaif  yn   lie   gore   a  gaiff  entrio  /i/  dir 

y   Hew ends:  ag   y  geiff   fyncd  /i/   dir  /r/  Addewid  &c. 

vltimo  July  :  66. 

/(.  A  prophecie  found  vnder  ye  church  of  S'  Denis  in  f ranee  S)- 
send  by  ye  popes  Nuncio  to  ye  Cardinall  Burges  1616. 

1620  Great  warres  generally  throug  Italie     .... 
1630  There  shalbe  but  one  church  &  on  pastor, 
xiii.        ye  p;-ofesie  of  Thomas  a  Begket  in  English  (^ee  xii.  above). 


JOHN  JONES  GELU  LYVDY.  101 

xlv.       When  8  times  8  &  3  (imes  3     .     .     .     .  n 

In  dust  shall  lay  y'  royall  whoi-o 
Distayn''  like  y'  old  Jane  Shore 
&  all  her  brats  turned  out  of  dore. 
J.  R.  to  ye  sadl  shall  slide 
&  furiously  to  Rome  shall  ride 
His  principls  no  longer  hide 
The  Pope  shall  have  a  fatall  fall 
&  nove;-  more  trouble  White  Hall 
Nor  Englands  people  more  enthrall 
JJut  he  y'  chwnceth  to  survive 
to  see  the  year  85 
shall  see  y«  Land  begin  to  thrive     "1674" 


TLyfr  Sion  ap  WiLiAM  AP  SiON  0  hen  vrvdiev  yr  hen  veirdd 
1       Synge  y  wille  but  alias  b 

^ngelonde  sum  tyme  was     .... 
Discedunt  prospera  grata 

Ilegnorum  geina  perata 

Galant  is  purse  penyles 

if  hyt  be  as  y  gesse. 

per  vicos  ecce  vagantur 

male  soluunt  quod  mutuantur./ 

7       Oon  with  another  anoon     ....  c 

for  ful  wel  he  knoweth 
Satagit  coinitterre  guerram     .... 
Quanto  dolet  Anglia  luctu./ 

Y  broffwydoliaeth  iion  a,  gefais  i  yn  ysgrifenedig  ar  ddau  ddarn  o 
femrwu  ....  wedi  ei  hjsgrifennv  yn  deg  iawn  o  ysgrifen 
a  elwir  Bastart  secretaris  |  Terfyn  y  /  5  /  o  vai  1607. 

14  TLyma  froffxeydoliaeih     .     .     a  gefais  i  mewn  hen  gronikl 

.     or  eiddo  fy  ewythr  Sion  Grvffydd  or  Brithdir. 
Tolls  caput  mortis  bis  &c.  d 

15  The  time  shall  come  as  true  &c.  {see  p.  is.  above)  e 

16  Cum  fuerint  anni  xxxx.  transact!  m.ccc.  &c. 

17  A.r  y  dydd  y  gorffwysodd  yn  arglwydd  ni  yr  ymysgydwa  y 
.tyrchod  ag  y  llithyr  y  gwenwyn  ir  vn  lie  .  .  .  ends :  Ag  velly  y 
terfyna  ymadrawdd  y  brawt  am  y  byt  hwnn,  /  sef  ^euau  true  y 
ularan. 

19       Byddawt  Eryr  yn  wir  ar  dir  Dewi f 

a  Grvffydd  a  vedd  y  goron  //  Taliessin 

21       Ef  a  c'.daw  byd  yngryt  a  chyt  och  i     .     .     .     .  g 

Yna  y  digwydd  y  goron  mewn  kyveiliorni./  „ 

23  Hoean  Borchellan  borchellyn  lion h 

Y  bydd  Kymrv  yn  kymryt  alldvdion  //       Merddin  Wyllt 

b.      Gwyr  Gwynedd  ar  ddyhedd i 

Yn  Eiundain  llafar  Kymry./  Adda  vyras 

24  ILew  Prydan  yn  ILundain  yn  llaith     ....  k 
Beli  a  Grvffydl  yn  rryt  rrydeoedd                          „         „ 

25  Dyrogan  y  vor  vorwyn  ag  o  ffraink  y  daw  honno  I 

Gwelais  morawt  ag  a  doet  yspyddvt 

kynann  kycliwyn  lliaws  en  Uvhit  nit  Talicsin 


102  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   133. 

26       Gogyverchais  gogyfavcha  gogyferchydd     ....       _    ,    « 
na  bwyff  im  dirwen  iia  molwyfi  vi  vrien.  /  Taliesin 

29  Orddod  vron  gorvod  kaled  a  vydd  ILoygyr  fr 
wys  heb  ffydd  dydd  drwy  dynged     .... 

advn  a  fydd  iach  rrydd  gwared         ifif 

30  Proff:  y  lili :  Lili  a  vydd  yn  brenhiniaeth  yn  y  rran  vonheddika 
or  byt,  a  gychwyn  yn  eibyn  mab  y  Hew  nit  amgen  nor  dvk  o  fflandrys 
&c.  etids :  yna  y  kyftlowuir  y  profEwydoliaethav./ 

32  Drogan  y  llynges  drom  droch 

[Drocb]  dvw  svl  voloch  |  dvw  svl  gwrthgroch     .    .     .    .   c- 
mat  no  yn  nia  gwr  ai  gwna 

33  Pan  vo  oet  Krist  mil  a  phedwar  kant-  a  pliedwar  vgain  yr 

Ysgotiaid   a  gyfyd   ug  a   wnan    gynnwr ends  :  Y    tarw    a 

vydd  marw  yn  ^affetli  yngalvaria  Jesv  a  ro  trvgaredd  y w  euait  amen./ 

36  Amies  Brutlaen  faur 

Droganat'  i  hynn  //  kad  ym  hob  meryn     ....  d 

armes  Bryttayn  veclian .  /  Taliessin 

42  JProJf;  Ffiowr  ddylvs  a  vylodeva  a  Uawer  a  ddwg  o  geinkiav 

ag  ni  bydd  brenhiuol   yr  vu  o  honvnt ends:  yn   amser  y 

porcbellyu  gwedi  hynny  y  kadarna  ai  gledde  biev  y  dyrnas  ar  goron 

45  Proff:  mewn  modd  arall :  Fflowr  delis  avylodeva  ai  blodav 
a  vydd  teg  a  Uawer  o  geinkiev,  a  pbob  rryw  gaink  a  ddiflanna  heb 

ffrwyth   bronhinol ends  :    ag  velly  i  bydd  diwedd  i  tiveddion 

ILoegyr  i  goUi  i  hytiveddiaeth  yn  dragwyddol  amen./ 

48  Proff:  y  keiliog :  Galw  di  y  keiliog  darian  anedvs  o  vyrvttvs 
nit  ehetta  yderyn  yn  y  byt  kyfEelib  ir  keiliog  ....  ends : 

Erddwch  pedyrevwch  a  byddvvch  Ian  e 

oni  vo  marw  tarw  torvoedd  Uydan./ 

63  Ath  gyvarcnaf  vardd  hynaf  binin f 

glew  megis  Hew  yn  lladd  i  elyn  Hinin  vardd 

b.      fVo  ddaw  rriain  a  bair  diflannv  hil  Xpwrssia      .     .     .     .    gp 
ag  a  adnewydda  i  fiordd  i  Gwlen  i  nythyd  i  ddiweddva./ 

Taliessin 

56       Mod;  daw  byt  y  gryL  yngred  uyf  anant     ....  It 

a  ssaif  bit  llawen  pan  chedant  „ 

58       Crist  ^essv  amkv  amkyilvydd i 

aichent  trvgaredd  kyn  dybcdd  i  ddydd./  „ 

60        Pryderawt  kevdawt  priawt  prydain  vawr  a  chwyssawr  k 

ar  lawr  Uawer  ocliain  am  galan  Jonaur     .... 
yn  ddiev  kyffnot  gwedi  i  oryot  yn  i  arvav        Mer:  wyllt 

62  Yn  ol  y  llewes  y  keir  mab  dall  yr  hwnn  a  enir  yn  //  ab//  ag  a 

vegir  yn  wadd  &c ends :  Yna  i  kly wir  llais  genevev  y  bobl- 

oedd   kyn   gwelet  yr  amser  rrai  ereill  o  wynvyd  anyr  ol  ddiarbet 
nid  amgen  kyn  dan  pen  byd./     1575. 

64  Dyrogan  am  vain  Gioynedd 

Pan  gotto  main  Gwynedd  oi  gorveddva     ....  I 

ag  o  Vaelawr  vawr  ymgywira  Taliessin 

66       Koronawg  vaban  diargel  ryvel  rrwyf  gosgorddion     ...  m 
byddawt  naw  gwragedd  am  yr  vngwr./ 


t  See  statement  in  small  type  on  page  148  and  footnote  thereon. 


JOHN   JONES   GELLI   I,VVDi'.  103 

67       Koronog  vaban  droganaf  pwyllaf  pellenigion     ....      « 
i  gost  llavyn  aer  dost  post  Prjdain./ 

09       Kyliwitor  gwynt  kyliwitor  glaw     ....  i, 

gylvin  gevel  gavel  How./  Taliessin 

70  Iloeyan  borchell  oedd  rrait  gweiddi     ....  c 
pea  devig  derwin  Duw  yw  noddi./                Merddin  imjllt 

71  Hoean  boi-chellan  liandaw  di  yn  awr     ....  d 
nev  o  helionaeth  nyii  didolawr./                  Merddin  Wyllt 

72  Avallen  beien  bren  ail  wyddva     ....  g 
Ilias  mah  gwenddydd  vy  llaw  ai  gwna 

73  Van  vo  oedraii  krist  l^^/f 

gwedi  hyuny  y  gorou  vylodevog  f 

a  g-svympa  rrwng  olwyii  kerbyd  kaer  Evyiog      .... 
Yn  rrydd  hyt  byth  nis  diddorwn./  '  Merddin 

7-1       (jweilch  y  Gogyledd  ai  vyssedd  y  tyvi     ....  « 

pauit  tost  vv  yr  peiiyt  dav./ 

75  Mab  a  gyfyd  o  abryt  wrthaw    ,     .     ,     .  A 
ni  bydd  noa  ymwartt  o  get  iddaw./ 

76  Orddot  vron  orddot  gwisgant  dair  kad  i 
drwy  vradwyr  a  thwjllwir  y  kyvodiad     .... 

pvm  bys  y  sydd  ar  law  |  a  thair  blyuedd  byclian"  glaw 
gwedi  y  tair  kyn  y  naw  |  piim  breiihinieth  a  ddaw 
78       Dvw  a  ossodes  tervyn  pob  rryw  dii-     ....  k 

ag  velly  y  tervyna  iiynuy  ya  -wir  it-;4'     Myrddia  Wyllt 

80  jOian  borcliellaii  na  vydd  livnawg     .     ,     .     .  I 

gwell  bedd  na  drwg  obeithiawg./  Merddin 

b.       Crist  fessv  gorvchaf  i  ti  y  kredaf     .... 

Yna  yr  helpir  Owain  glaia  golevaf./  Taliessin 

81  Ivoronog  vaban  medd  taliessin     .     ,     ,     ,  ,j 
Yn  yffryn  ]fasbar  lie  maer  tir  issel 

87  fAvallen  bcren  bren  diled  k)'nt     ....  o 

nam  yn  sait  ledwag  wedi  lied  kynt  /  Merddin  wyllt 

88  jPedwar  kynnwrf  ar  vrys  a  ddaw  ir  ynys     ,     .     »     ,  » 

pan  vc  vy  Hew  ar  llv  dyvrys//./ 

b.     fOian  borchellan  brychini  andav      ....  n 

ag  ymladd  yn  daer  am  ddwy  Ian  dywi  „  , 

89  Pan  vo  kyffro  yn  y  bryn  kywaethog     ....  r 
i  glwyd  vawr  ai  gvvaylod  vydd./ 

90  Gwyn  i  vyd  y  vedwen  ymlymhynnon     ....  s 
a  menych  ar  veirch  yn  varchogion//./ 

b.      Hoyan  borchellan  brychvvyn  breith  vron     ....  t 

a  cbynnwrff  yn  y  twr  gwyn  a  ILundain  mewu  dycbryn 

91  Pan  glywer ,j 

ag  yna  i  tyr  E,vndain  i  chalon  Hitnn  vardd 

92  Gwyn  i  byd  gwyndid  byddod  Beli     ....  v 
bieivydd  koron  ynys  y  kowri. // 

93  Gwedi  koder  y  bedde  ymonwent  goffre     .... 
bid  dydd  llawen  gwedi  Dvw  nydolig  Taliesnn 

•f  See  statement  iu  small  type  on  page  148  and  footnote  thereon. 


m 


w 


104  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   133. 

b.      H«rri  wedi  rrus  a  rawofn  ar  agen     .... 

ag  a  ddaw  or  diwedd  ir  vn  bressen./ 
94     fKoronaw;;;  vrenin  a  ddaw 

ai   vonedd  o  dalayth  Aberffraw     .     .     . 

bid  yno  gymro  i  ddc-rbyn  alltvdion./ 
£5     jYr  hydd  ar  vynydd  offa  o  awydd  ymdaraw      .... 

bo  niver  yn  rrydd  rryvig  dervyn 
97     f^th  o  gyvarcliaf  vrenin  y  gorllewin     ....  i 

ag  ar  bed  rriw  rrawd  o  gigvrain// 
08     fAth  gyvarcliaf  irenin  am  vyd  gorvyddin     .... 

a  gway  wynt  Sayson  pan  i  gwypon./ 

100  fEf  a  ddaw  byd  anhyffryd  i  Saeson 

rrag  maint  i  gallv  ni  aUant  vvddion 

Yr  liyd  vor  koed  kadarn  nis  kvddion 

na  dim  ni  bydd  wrth  i  boddion 

kyvyd  o  gvdd  gwr  a  wna  bvdd  yow  obeithion 

ag  ywain  vydd  i  henw  benardd  gylfrangon 

Hew  glew  a  glywir  i  at  chwelon 

llongav  yn  dJiav  a  ddaw  i  aberou 

itberoedd  a  vydd  vyddion 

a  Chymi-y  yn  hy  ynghaer  vrangon 

kaffant  wledd  kylauedd  oi  gelynion 

Ywain  a  vv  owain  a  vydd  etto 

Owain  a  rydd  gwared  am  dir  i  Vrytlion./ 

101  jVal  hyn  3'  dywaid  ^evan  twrch  y  dara  ]fevau  y  bostol  val  liyn 
y  dechra\'  Y  govidion  a  rrymiant  ....  ends :  yna  y  kyvyd  breniu 
or  dehav  yr  hwn  a  vydd  vrddasawl  ag  a  vyn  pawb  dan  yr  vn  iav  ag 
a  vydd  bendigeilig./ 

103  Pan  ddel  kyffro  ar  vor  havreu  vawr  ef  a  gryn  llawr  Han  ILieni 

ef  a  ddaw  y  blaidd  i  vays  hyfedd  i  weiddi  &c ends :  ag  arwynt 

y  gorou  honno  a  gcidw  lieddwcli  tragwyddol  hyd  tydd  xarn  yn  hyrnas 
Loygjr  val  na  orfFo  tynnv  kledde  or  wain  mwy  byth  /    Taliesin  ^^5 

109  Kyvoesi  Merddin  Wyllt 

Ky\arcliaf  ym  heleth  vrawt  a  welais  i  vaeth     .     .     .    .     j 
ai  vonedd  o  Aberfferaw  a  vydd  dwy  vlynedd  a  naw./  \%^^ 

1 1 1   JLyma  val  y  dyvot  Merddin  Emrois  am  Harri  vrenin:  Niueus 

-iiuoqjte   scnex  in-iiiiieo  equo  flumen   Pvronis  &c ends:  nam 

jnipetum  cursus  sui  in  vlteiiore  Hysbaiiia  protendet  /  or  in  Welsh: 
Yr  hen  gwyn  ar  varch  kaii  welw  a  drosa  avon  berydon  .  .  .  ends: 
rrythvr  i  redeg  a  ystyn  i  eithavoedd  yr  Ysbaeu./ 

113  ILyma  brqff'wydoliaeth  yr  Eryr  pan  oeddid  yn  adeilad  kaer 
Mynydd  y  Paladr  :  Megis  y  gwrtL  ladd  y  ddraig  wen  y  goch  velly 

J  bwrw    y   dwyll  y  wen  &c ends:  Oddyna  y  gogoncddvs 

ifyniant  ef  ni  ddioddef  amrrainc  na  sarhaet  yr  hwn  ni  bo  tangby- 
nevcddvs  yr  dyrii^s  a  ddigwydd. 

1 19  Dyrogan  Merddin  Emrys  o  vylaen  Gortheyrn  Gorthenav  SfC. 
•fAc  val  yd  oed  Gortheyrn  yn  eisteij  ar  glau  y  liyn  gwehynedig  y 
kyvodassant  dwy  draig  o  honavv  y  neill  oedd  wen  ar  Hall  oedd  goch 

a  gwed)  dinassaw  pob  vn  oi  gilyd  o  nadvnt  &e ends  :  e  gwreid 

ar  aiigev  a  ymcbwelunt  evchwyl  a  nevvidier  y  gvy^eirhred  a  vyd  anrry- 
vedawg  echtywyne  digrw|| — imperfect. 


t  See  Btatement  in  small  type  on  j.age  148  and  the  next  footnote. 


JOHN   JONES    GELLI    LYVDY.  105 

145  TLyma  Henway  y  mae  beirdd  yn  i  roddi  ar  y  droganwr  a 
ynnill  y  groes  vendigaid  :  Dewi  sant  ai  yelwis  et  Mab  y  dyn. 
St.  Tho:  o  Ganterbyri  ai  gelwis  ef  Brenin  y  morwyndawd.  &c. 

148       Beli  yn  ynill  yn  wir  dir  ystradtewi     ....  a 

diffaith  viycbeiniog  a  dieuwog  drefi 

b.      Pan  vo  kad  ymErydyn     ....  h 

yiiys  jTiydain  gain  gyfechwyn     /  1604/. 

Llyma  ral  y  terfyna  yr  hoU  ddyroganav  oedd  gwcdi  i  ysgrifenv*  yn  llyfr 
Thomas  ap  Hrys  up  Howel  ap  Jevan  vychan  (lythyren  yu  Uythyren  val  yr 
oeddunt  yn  ysgrifeuedig)  yr  hwn  Domas  oedd  gydyu.aeth  a  chywely  i  liys 
Nanmor. 


149  Gwr  oedd  gynt  a  elwid  Gronwy  ddv  o  Von  ag  yr  oedd  y 
gwr  hwnnw  yn  gwyliad  yngwylfa  yr  hon  wylfa  a  elwid  y  berifro  y 
Mon  ag  y  doeth  adre  o[r]  wylfa  honno  j'n  Uyddcdig  ag  erchi  a  wnaeth 
baratoi  a  tbany  i  wely  &c.  .  .  .  ends  :  ag  yna  y  kwnyr  y  Kymrv 
ag  y  kloigyr  y  saeson  ag  yn  yr  amser  hwnnw  tyrnas  direol  a  welii' 
a  vryfedtlod  yn  agos./  Ag  velly  y  teri'yna  hrevddxcyd  Gronwy  ddv 
« fori,  o  gwmwd  Twrkelyn  o  blwyf  llan  Eletli  vrenin. 

155  Brevddwyd  Gronwy  ddv  ar  ol  Haw  Tomas  ap  lirys  : 

My  vi  a  bair  tervyn  gelyn  i  gilblant     ....  c 

a  marvolaeth  heb  gwyn  a  drvdanieth  heb  newyn./  1604 

158  Chwedl  Banistr  o  Brydain  vawr :  Pan  vo  oct  Kiist  yn 
harglwyddyn  vil  a  banner  yna  y  dau  /  H  /  aniwair  .  .  .  .  ef  a  ostega 
bawb  a  becbo  yn  i  erbyn./  ....  Padrig  a  ddyfod  mae  o  Hn 
/H/y  daw  /  E  /  a  honno    a    geiddw   i  morwyndod   oni  vo  marw 

ag  ni   vedyddir  mewn  bedyddvaen./    &e ends:  Wedi/H/ 

y  daw  /  E  yn  vrenin  a  cbwedi  /  E  /  M  /  a  goronir  agwedi  M  /  E  / 
eilwaith,  ar  eglwys  a  ddymchwel  yn  i  hoi./ 

162  Vmddiddan  rrwng  Gwenddydd  a  Merddin :  G.  Panwyl 
vrawd  pa  brydy  daw  bvddygoliaeth  ir  Brytanied./    M.  Pan  vo  amlaf 

J  bobyl  a  gwaethaf  i  rrol  &e ends :  yna  y  daw  Brython 

yn  ddiamav  i  yrawasg  mynydd  yr  yri  ag  oi  ner.th  i   cbwarddwn  ag  i 
byddwn  digrif  Merddin  Wyllt  ai  dyfod. 

166       Droganaf  vi  brif  gad  gan  geidwad  Prydain  a  biain  d 

yn    gwiliaw    a    chan    kelain    a  -chylancdd    heb    vedd 

digrain     .... 
or    diwedd    vydd  |  llvoedd    gv.'endyd  |  llawcn  vyddant/. 

Adda  vras 

168  Pan  enkilio  Grvffyih  rryfeloedd     ....  e 
day  dri  gida  cliwech  a  ddwg  Harddlech  gan  Harri./    Tal: 

169  Mi  a  dystiaf  yn  gyntaf  am  yr  haf  hir  felyn     .      .     .     .      f 
kynvUawg  ywr  amser  Lloygyr  ir  Hew  goresgynir./ 

l7l       Haf  liir  wynog  kyfodog  o  law  beth  wedi  ef  .     .  g 

am  losgi  kreiriav  ag  esgyrn  seiutiav  a  difa  llawer  or 
eglwysav./  Taliessin 

1?2       Pan  ddel  eryr  tros  vor  ai  drysor  o  ddevtv     ....        h 
a  haf  gwlybyrog  heb  gog  yn  kanv     .... 
a  gwragedd  yn  greirie  ai  koryne  yn  lyfv./         Adda  vras 

173       Bid  /S/  Wyddeles  yn  weddillion     ....  i 

bid  yno  Gymro  yn  kymryd  alltvdion./  Merddin 

*  Those  marked  f  were  not  written  bj-  Thos.  ap  Khys. 


106  MOSTfN  MANUSCKIPT   133. 

174  Pont  ar  Venai  kalan  Mai  ymlaen  gwndyd     ....  a 
ag  alltvdion  val  llif  avon  Uitlirant  i  gyd                Taliessin 

b.      Pan  vo  rrvdd  rredyu   "1  " 

pan  vo  koch  kelyn         >ai  bwiall  awcliliw 
y  daw  gwyr  ILychlyn  J 

Gidag  Ovvain  Lowgoch    "] 

ai  baladr  rryddgoch  VYngliors  Vocliuo./ 

i  gyro  Saj'son  val  inochj  Taliessin 

175  Pan  ddigwydd  yr  abarch  y  bydd  diarbortli  deifri     .     .     .   e 
A  diffeth  Vercheiniog  a  dieawog  ticfi  Merddin 

176  Y  meibion  moelion  a  vydd  alltvdion  d 
yngharchav  yn  wrn  Saeson     .... 

ar  Loygrwys  diredd  y  terfynant./ 

177  Edwart  yw  hwn  oedd  gwrolaeth     ....  e 
dir  yw  Engkil  ar  hil  Henri                                      Taliessin 

178  Dyfydd  chvvedlav  newydd  yn  amser  kog  a  mai  ,     ,     .    ,  f 
a  ILoygyr  heb  gyfal  o  gyfraith  y  Ihvynog  „ 

179  Eryr  a  gyfyd  bryd  ymRython     ....  ^ 
blwyddyn  y  pecha  |  ffraink  ai  ffrwyna 

o  dradiriaw  Merddin 

180  Ysgotlant  a  gwyn  tyngliedfen  ag  agnef  twysawg  avr  benig 
yr  hwn  a  wisg  attaw  i  Lvn  bob  lie  or  mor  bigilidd  &c.  .  .  .  ends : 
y  Brytauiaid  ar  Ysgotiaid  a  lliwiant  y  tadolioa  dyrnasoedd  yntwy 
a  wladycliant  i  gyd  yn  rrwydd  dangnefeddvs  wedi  gwrthladdon  i 
gelynion  hyd  ddydd  brawd./ 

182  Merddin  a  ddyfod  y  kyfode  kath  las  or  Dwyrain  gida  Hew 

a  llosgwrn  draig   ag   a  waliardd  y  bleiddiav  ILoygyr  &c 

ends :  yna  y  daw  blaidd  o  Werddou  ag  a  diria  i  Aber  dav  gleddav  ag 
a  letfca  i  esgill  dro3  Gymrv  a  ILoygr  ag  yn  ol  hwnnw  y  kaiff  Kymrv 
heddwch  yn  dragwyddol./ 

ILyma  ychidig  o  broffydoliaethav  bychain  ac  eraill  o 

tiAESNEG. 

186  Naw  mlynedd  rryfedd  rryfeddodav  &c.  Taliessin  k 
If.  Eriain  a  ddaw  rriain  ni  ddaw  &c.  Hinin  vardd  i 
c,      Kastell  Rrvddlan  yn  dan  nim  dawrdd  &c.  k 

187  Mieire  beegineth  English  Profeseis 

a.  When  /E/  is  gone  the  warres  shalbe  so3  greate  &c.  I 

b.  Merlin  saeth  there  shalbe  a  parliment  which  shall  begin 

with  beads  and  end  wytli  blowes,  &c. 

c.  In  March  the  lawiers,  and  after  the  spiritualitie  shall  beare 

great  rvle  in  the  ende  great  mischiefe  will  followe  &c. 

188  There  shalbe  a  wonderows  wett  Soraer  &c. 

b.  When  commeth  /M  /  D  /  fortie  and  three  score  m 
mania  wilbe  wearie  of  feightinge  and  will  fight  no  more  &c. 

c.  A  dead  man  shall  arise  and  take  a  sworde  &c.  n 

189  Marke  and  ye  shall  see  (er  it  be  longe)  without  auie  blame  o 
all  falshood  sett  vppe  wythout  anie  shame     .... 
Then  England  shall  full  raerrye  bee 

and  all  the  relmcs  in  Cristianitie 


JOHN   JONES   GELLI   LYVDY.  107 

192  In  thatyeare  -when  there  shalbe  a  greate  counsel  in  Wintei'  &c. 

193  Bvt  when  the  Winter  is  greene  as  yt  never  was  &o. 

b.  A  IJT)  II  with  a  double  Ij  R  Jl  Jl  a  bastarde  iu  wedlock  boino 
shall  come  and  thinke  tho  crowne  to  obtaeu  but  it  is  not  hi  that  shall 
haue  the  beast  gaine  &c. 

194  Will  Ambros  saitli  that  tho  red  dragon  shall  cast  his  foame 
at  Charinge  crosse  and  the  most  parte  o  Saxons  shalbe  destroyed./ 
Then  shall  land  at  Milforde  haven  the  widowe  of  Callabourc  wherat 
the  Brvtes  shall  crie  havocke  and  he  shall  goe  to  London  and  beseedge 
yt  three  dales  &c.  &c. 

195  When  the  Bearo  is  muffled  and  may  not  bite     ....     a 
then  shall  broade  foot  England  wynne 

196  These  armes  shall  prosber  in  England. I  A  black  Crowe  of 
a  true  line  that  shall  rise  in  the  blood  of  JCadwaladyr  &c. 

b.  These  folowing  shalbe  slaine./  A  king  uppon  a  stonne  tho 
red  fox  his  ffrindes  &c.  &c. 

197  When  llempe  hath  ruled  the  lande  of  England  then  shall  yw 
see  therin  tribulation,  warres  &c.  &c. 

b.  When  Hempe  is  come  and  gone  then  English  men  take  hede  to 
your  selfes  make  your  selfes  readie  to  wavr  &c. 

198  The  profecije  of  an  holy  anhar :  Jn  kinge  Egelfredvs  tim 
/  Henrico  libro  sexto./  Englishmen  for  as  much  as  they  are  given  to 
dronkenes  &c. 

199  Gwyr  Mon  a  welyn  ar  yr  vn  penrryn 6 

yna  i  gossodan  wr  a  elwir  Owain 

yn  vrenin  koronawg  ar  ynys  Brydain 

ag  yna  y  gwisgir  koron  am  i  ben  ar  bont  ILvndain    .     . 

ag  ni  bydd  Sais  byth  yn  Ynys  Brydain  mwy 

written  in  1/fT6  ;  copied  Nov.  7,  l60!i. 

207       Dihedd  a  drossed  dros  weilgi     .....'  c 

rryfel  avo  /  val  mor  dylan  /  am  ben  dvlvn./  1476  /  1604./ 

209  *Yn  ol  y  llewes  y  kair  mab  dall  yr  hwn  y  elwir  yn  /  ab  / 
af  a  vegir  yn  wadd  ag  ai  gwaithredoedd  gwenwynig  a  bery  yn 
ynys  B.  &c.  ends  : 

Mab  Mair  an  rryddhao  er  y  graddav  d 

a  wnaeth  iawn  am  yn  pechodav  Merddin 

213       Therof  profficied  an  holy  Ankerf  &c. 

215  Bruti  posteritas  :  Albanis  associata  &c, 

b.       When  faythe  fayles  in  priestes  handcs  :  &c.  e 

216  The  prophecie  of  Tvrquartus :  Out  of  the  East  shall  come 
desmale  blacke  dogge  that  like  a  theefe  by  night  shall  enter 
Germanie  &c. 

218  Tvrquartus  .  .  vppon  the  j  1 2  j  monethes  of  the  yere  .  15g6. 
ifn  the  nioneth  of  January  the  angri    heavens    doe    foretell    vppon 

the  lande  where  moste  synu  and  wickednes  do  abounde  &c 

ends :  that  wee  may  singe  all  holi    holi   holi  to    the  migti   god  of 
]fsrael. 

*  See  p.  62  above,  but  there  is  "  more  in  this  prophecy." 

f  See  p.  198  above — extracted  from  an  old  English  chronicle  belonging  to  Harri 
Jones  0  Lwyn  y  Kosyn. 


108  MOSTYN    MANUSCEIPT    133. 

226  A  proffesi  [for  the  years  lu91-1600]  that  was  found  in 
Paris  written  on  a  greeuo  marble  stoa  &c.  .  .  .  1591  Navarre 
Cippres  fland«rs  and  Germany  wilbe  devided  from  the  faith   &c. 

229  Mark  ^rland  they  faull  /  tyar  on  and  tyar  all  &c.  a 

230  Kyfoesi  Merdin  a  Gwendyd 

Pan  vo  Owain  y  Manaw b 

gogeled  Dvw  o   Wenddydd. 

243  Tri  pet  a  distry wia  Loegr :  Kynwys  dieitred  idi  //  A  rydhau 

Tvarcaror  //  ac   anregu  y    gur  moel./    &c.  .  .   .      ends  :  Ef    a  wnair 

fcam  ar  y  baglau  a  symudir  ei   kouglau  ir  kanol  ac   a  vyd  haul  ar  y 

toleidiau./  y  Bard  disc 

245       Edryc  arwydion :  pan  del  argoelion     ....  c 

a  gurtnebu  pla  a  traha  y  Saesson./  Taliessin 

247       Krift  ^essu  keli  iti  y  koeliaf d 

Na  bard  na  difard  eytyr  duu  dofyd  Merdin  leylt 

250       Ef  a  daii  byd  ef  a  dau  ■ e 

a  Cymru  biau  vyd  or  mor  yu  gilycl  Robin  Dit 

258       Duu  guynn  a  roes  terfyn  pob  tir     .     .     .     ,  f 

a  huunu  yu  /  r  /  maru  a  broffuydir  Merdin  wylt 

260  Yr  anwired  pobl  a  distrywant  yr  hoi  dyrnassoed  ai  hanwired 

valcder    &c ends :    A  duu    maurt  pasc  gwedi  liyuny  y  byd 

newyd  yr  haul,  ac  yn  ol  hynny  o  amseroed  nid  ymlad  Saesson  am  dir 
muy  yn  hoi  ynys  Brydain,  o  hyny  nlan  hyd  dyd  farn./  Taliessin 

265       Ef  a  dau  riain  fain  fodussa :  g 

a  bair  diilanuu  hil  Saxonia 

Ac  yno  yn  dragowyd  y  byd  ei  orffuysfa./  Taliessin 

270       Yd  uyf  fi  yn  kaffel  oedran  Krist  yn  1533^  &c.  A 

273       Af.d!en  beren  bur  ei  blodeu  i 

felys  ei  haeron  garcarorion  greirie./ 

Ac  ar  ei  ol  ef  y  dau  Owain  yn  die./ 

275  Ef  a  dau  gur  moel  milioed  &c M.  Wylt  k 

276  »  «  *  *  »  asked  Merlyn,  when  shall  the  line  cf  the  Bryttons 

be  exalted  &c ends :  Colchester  sayth  a  queene  shal  dey  ia 

a  fylde  by  the  draughte  of  a  bow  and  the  stroke  of  an  arrowe./ 

282  The  region  in  the  myddle  parte  of  the  worlde  shalbe  moved 
against  the  sonne  of  the  lyon  that  is  to  say  kinge  of  fflaunders  shall 
come  into  the  land  of  the  lyon  &c 

286  The  inophesie  of  the  hermyle  from  the  hegininye  of  the  world 
fpp  The  hermyit  in  tlie  history  of  Almaen  and  Marlion  in  the  history 
of  Bryttaen  at  Sondyforde  betweeue  /  v.  and  J  wonder  in  England  shalbe 
seene  and  between  J   and  one  all  is  done./     Marlion  cauleth  hym  a  bull 

of  threefould  naturs  &c etids :  When  olde  father  Bleth  the 

begar  can  say  two  creds  and  haue  lybarty  to  walk  &  wander  wyth 
his  wallet,  and  mother  Synikyn  the  sage  fawles  agayn  to  her  beade  then 
prists  beware  your  palets  when  the  postols  preehing  and  breking  the 
brede  shalbe  turned  to  sacrifice  &  pray  not  for  soules,  then  prists  wyth 
a  cowtorde  shall  cover  there  noi  when  ij  mares  shall  come  out  of 

towre  they  shall  offer  sacrifRce  wyth  there  owne  blood  Troy  vntryw 
shall  tremble  and  quake  for  feare  of  hym  that  many  hym  dredes./ 

311  ^  professie  of  all  the  miserie  in  general  y'  shall  jail  on 
jEnglund.  Of  all  the  marvells  of  Merlyn  how  hee  maketh  his  mune  tak 
heede  of  his  talkinge  &  talys  wheare  hee  tells  how  a  lion  shalbe  ravyshed 
and  to  Barwick  gone  by  the  Kose  d:c. 


JOHN  JONES   GELLl   LYVDY.  lOD' 

317  There  shall  a  swonle  come  over  the  sea  wjth  a  spereand  a  sliilde 
aud  a  redd  lyon  &c. 

320  Tn  the  yere  l5o'2  and  one  //  such  things  shall  befall  adowing  and 
alsoe  donn  in  Bryttaen  &c 

324  The  pye  J  poked  and  downe  sliall  hee  wyth  Tvaters  that  be  bolb 
styff  and  boulde  &c. 

327  The  yeare  /  1558  /  and  betweene  the  pertyng  of  Aprell  and  not 
farr  from  May,  the  Bull  shall  depart  away  &c. 

329  Betwixt  iiij.  and  .  v.  that  is  to  vnderstand  a  black  Crowe  shall 
arise  agayne  &c. 

331  When   Rome  is  removed   into  England  //  and  every  preest  hath 

y^   popes  power  in  hand  // wilt   waiter,  or  walow  or  ly  on 

je  vegge,  for  y'  while  fean  Scotland  and  ffraunce  for  then  they  are 
fleggen  [sic~\. 

340  Wiiat  tyme  faulyth.  i|.  soniers  in  on  yeai'e  ....  how  yt  hee 
yade  me  from  f  could  not  wyt./ 

342  Ould  Biyttaen  is  England  /  the  sumhell  ys  at  Newcastyl  &c. 

343  The   lantern   lightneth  anonne  shall  waxe   d?rke,  the  feren  shall 

wax  wondorous  warnie who  shall  here  the  gsyne  that  daye  no 

man  J  tro  dot  wryght. 

346  The  Egel  shall  weryd  be  of  fyghtinge  as  J  wene  &c. 

350  The  fox  wyth  bonds  he  shall  hunt  the  fulymer  shall  doe  a 
singuler  in  fere  what  syde  of  soever  he  be  bent  &c. 

352  To  London  the  lordes  shall  wyiid,  all  with  that  noble  kyng  when 
all  warrs  be  broght  to  end  &c. 

354  When  all  this  worke  be  brought  to  end  in  England  shall  uoe 
more   warr   bee,   v.'hen    the  black   flyet   of  Norway  is   com    and   gone 

&c ends:    littyl   mann    mett    wyth    mee    tould     mee     this 

profiycy  in  this  tale  and  what  yt  should  bee,  god  that  dra[n]ko  both 
ayscii  &  gawl  &c.  Brydlington 

363  In  the  land  of  more  Bryttaen  /  shalbe  a  lorde  of  grete  renome  / 
in  whose  tyme  as  bokes  sayne  /  shall  be  treson  in  towre  and  towne  &c. 

365  Of  littell  Bryttaen  lords  fell  /  shall  be  joyfull  men  of  this  &c. 

366  Evangolium  Christi  circum  ciria  notantur  &c. 

367  The  myghty  man  shall  shyne  that  before  was  shadowyd  &c. 

371  That  the  dead  shall  aryse  a  kinge  whose  generatione  was  of  a 
dun'ne  cowe  and  dyd  general  hym  out  of  the  sea  &c. 

372  A  Bishop  beinge  noe  geutylman  shall  overcome  the  crowne  for 
one  yeare  and  vse  yt  as  hym  lysteth  &c. 

375  The  sonn  of  mann  is  called  mab  y  dyn  o  Dirmon,  for  the 
generation  of  Tudur  cam  out  of  the  ^le  of  Mon,  and  in  proffising  [sic] 
of  hym  y'  hee  shall  kill  his  mother,  &  yett  haue  his  minhei's  blessing 

&c ends :    he  shall   plant  a  true  religion   in   vj    kindomes 

make  an  vniversall  peace  throughout  all  the  world./ 

John  ap  Robert  Gioyned 

377  That  an  arrowe   shall  be   y«   destructione    of  three  lions  &c. 

The:  Gwyned  S^  Edw:  Poxcel  sayd  yt.j 

378  This  is  the  forshore  and  the  xj  generatione  of  the  house  of 
Tydwrth  that  shall  give  armes  and  Edward  shall  be  his  name  &c. 

W  ap  Giocned  ap  Edijart  sayd  yt. 


110  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   133. 

379  A  lion  slialbe  generat  out  of  the  bere  by  tbo  full  strength  an 
nature  of  a  dunn  cow  &c.  Owain  laiigog. 

381       To  iudge  the  truth  as  before  hath  bynu :  a 

soe  iudge  wee  may  as  that  of.  vs  shalbe  sene.  / 
A  thousand  five  hundred  fieftie  two  and  one 
shall  these  thinges  be  adoinge  and  alsoe  sone  gonne./  .  .  . 
Ha  geatyl  talbot  beware  well  thine  head 
for  sure  a  greene  dragon  shall  putt  thee  to  dread.  /  ,  .  .  . 
A:  P:  shall  rule  the  king  as  his  lyst  any  way 
but  at  last  hee  shall  lose  his  head  for  his  traytors  play./&c. 

Laurentius  Minatensis. 

386  That  age  succeding  out  vppon  the  hills  shalbe  better  and  more 
prayse  worthy,  little  of  our  lawes  shall  yt  disanuU  &c. 

388  At  Ma'liburg  was  found  a  cronickle  havinge  these  words./  A  : 
100 :  yeare  age  of  the  blood  of  Charles  the  emperoure  &e. 

389  Greate  and  dreadfull  mutationes  of  all  kindes  are  at  hande,  the 
settinge  store  by  nionkes  shall  perish  &c . 

390  The  kinge  shall  forsake  the  men  of  his  church  &c. 

392  ifower  beastes  shall  binde  theyre  tayles  together,  a  lion  a  beare, 

a    hors,  and    an    Antilop   &c ends  :  E:  shall  weare  the  crowne 

of- Englaud  but  shall  not  continue  longe :  /  J:  shall  weare  the  crowne 
of  England  and  shall  continue  longe  &c. 

395  Therefore  arise  vpp  trew  Richard  filius  but  before  this  shalbe 
much  adoe  the  bull  and  the  read  rose  shall  stande  at  strife  &c. 

396  The  Saxons  shall  be  putt  downe  and  declyne  and  then  the  truth 
sb.iU  come  home  agayne  &c. 

399  The  blewe  bore  with  the  mullet  thorowe  Englaud  shall  ride  /  &c. 

b.  The  emperoure  shall  be   awakyd  as  a  man  fallen  into  sweete 
sleep  the  same  shalbe  counted  of  menn  as  dead  &c. 

400  When  y"  gryffon  flyeth  then  the  marlyon  shall  win  &c. 

Jinis :  per  me  nameles.  j 

401  A  Bueke  shall  rise  out  of  the  northwest  and  one  insurrectione 
bee  shall  mak  under  whoso  stondard  shall  be  slayne  .  .  the  gentyl 
Talbot  &c. 

403  Though  Poiils  was  soo  long  drey  that  men  might  wade  wyth 
pynsons  the  tyme  will  come  that  they  shall  flow  over  all  England  &c. 

404  A  Bishop  shall  have  the  crowne  in  governance  which  never  was 
born  to  the  estate  the  comons  of  hym  shall  ask  vengiance  &c. 

405  Yt  was  profissied  by  an  Ancres  in  king  Adfyldes  dayes  that 
England  .shall  be  conquered  by  the  Danes  &c. 

407  When  the  prince  of  Englande  shall  clymbe  vppon  the  holy 
place,  and  sytt  one  the  alter  destroinge  &c. 

409  A  best  at  Milforde  haven  shall  land,  at  Eose  a  battell  of  barons 
shalbe  in  the  Hay  mor  besyde  Carmarthen  &c. 

410  Temes  shall  runn  wyth  bloodo  &  the  rose  female  and  all  her 
llowers  forever  shall  fawle  a  dragon  shall  fle  out  of  the  tower  &c. 

411  When  gostlie  vnkindnes  in  a  well  shall  be  wroght  fortified 
by  /  k  /  all  goodnos  abused  &c. 

413  Many  lives  shall  be  spent  and  all  for  a  babe  whose  name  wilbe 
refused  when  :  k  :  is  transposid  to  his  dignitie  &c. 


JOHN   JONES   GELLI   LYVDY.  Ill 

415  Covetous[ness]  and  lecheri  cannot  be  all  still  wheare  vertue  and 
verginitie  hath  preheminens  &c.  finis  per  me  namelesse. 

N.B. — Urdassanl  dniieyd  mi  a  ysgrifennais  y  dryl  yma  or  llyfr 
(pp.  243-416)  allan  o  heu  lyfr  o  eido  m"'  Sion  Lewis  o 
ILynnwenneu  yn  sir  Vaeshyfaid  :  y  dryl  Kymracg  (pp.  24.3- 
275)  ocd  wedi  ei  e.sgrit'ennu  o  hin  gymreigaid  deg./ 
Ar  dryl  Saessonaeg  (pp.  26G-370)  ued  gwedi  ei  esgrifcnnu  o 
lau  aru  fals  .  .  .  y  i}ylc  arcser  Edward  VI.;  ac  o  371-416 
o  lau  arall  y  g^yle  amser  Mari  nou  docreuad  y  vrenhines 
Esbet  ac  myfi  ai  esgrifennais  lytyr  y  lytyr  yn  ol  y  lau  yd 
ysgrirennessid  lii  nessaf  oc  y  gelais.     13  Mai  1623. 

419   Ct/foesi  Gwcndi/d  a  Merdin  * 

Deutum  attad  fy  mraud,  yngnadiet  a 

ir  Gogled  yu  gennyf  syu  pob  tud  ti'aet  .... 
gogeled  duu  o  wendyd. 

455  Yr  assen  luyduen  hen  ei  gen  ai  grud  &c.  b 
b.       Erenin  a  davi  or  tir  drau                          ~]  c 

ar  ei  droed  gogyfoed  V.Rys  bardd  bach 

gur  heru  vyd  o  hiroed  r      (bardd  kwsg) 

iii  car  awar  henu  un  or  Henrioed.  J 

456  Left  blank  for  the  insertion  of  the  beginning  of  a  prophecy 
continued  on  the  next  page  : — 1|  Shall  shei-e  the  fetterlokc  iii  3''  parts 
then  shall  the  power  of  England  abyde  at  Hardly  castell  these 
shall  comfort  ffrencemen  Danes  and  Scottes  and  men  of  Calabyr  and 
the  widowe  of  Calabyr  &c. 

463  When  gostly  vnkindness  &c.  (see  p.  411  above) 

469  brenhinbren  a  dorrir  ac  a  wasgerir  ei  dail  ai  geinkiau 

ai  ba^ladr  a  dros  dair  eru  o  dir  &c. 

471       Val  rod  yn  troi  tramaet  huyliau  d 

tralaud  med  tracymel  tretau  &c. — end  wanting 

475  Llif  a  leinu  lewis  a  laweinaid  gwenyn  gwanec  dan  baladr 
aradr  ar  disgin  esgob  yn  bort  ag  aur  &c. 

478  Main  maur  ir  laur  mi  ai  golyngaf  &c.  e 

479  Koronoc  vaban  dau  byd  briu  breidvan  &c.     .     .     ,     .  / 

480  Haul  galed  y  goleuni  &c.  g 

481  Kyfyd  ffair  r\m^  y  peduir  ffynnon     ....  A 
a  nant  yn  divraint  ar  dyfred  j'n  gocion         y  bardd  kiisc 

482  Klydydau  gloywon  i  gledon  &c.  i 

483  Pump  bys  syd  ar  fy  lau     ....  k 
yu  ol  y  pump  wedi  nau  /. 

484  My  ii  a  cuereais  y  dissiau  a  gwedi  hynny  y  dabler  &c.       / 

489  Afalen  beren  a  dyf  y  glaii  lynn  m 
lawer  ar  nis  gwyr  ai  gofyn  :  &c.                       Merdyn  wyllt 

490  Kynaur  dyguaur  am  digyfing  bortloed     ...  n 
a  ]ywio  pobl  ger  pibyl                                    Merddin  wyllt 

*  Alan  o  lyfr  Mr.  Lewis  ucod  a  ysgrifenessid  alan  o  hen  dext  [gan  un  uas] 
medrai  ei  darjain  ....  ysgrifenod  ef  yn  ffals  lawer  iaun  o  ciriau  a  mi  a  geiydais 
lawer  .  .  .  .  ag  a  edewais  le  i  dodi  rai  erail  i  meun  ar  a  edowsid  ajan  .  16  May  . 
1623.  — John  Jones, 


112  MOSTYN    MANUSCRIPT   133. 

492  Pan  acuyn  luyn  luded  ayron  y  deiryd  tair  cuioied  ...     a 
Y  kyfyd  y  wad  i  weidi  ag^yfrait  sait  iait  a  dau  i  Wyned./ 

493  Y  mo[r]tmeriaid  yn  heidiau  a  Cymru  yn  gadau  ....       h 
el  ai  huyl  ar  lon>^eu  gadarn  vale  y  deau./ 


496       Yr  hoi  dyrogan  aet  gan  ysgolan :      ....  c 

or  mynydoed  ar  tiroed  pob  on  heb  vcistyr 
i  for  ywerdon./ 

502  Pan  noeter  gwybodau  y  trais  y  traenir  badwyr  <tc.  d 

503  Pan  del  guynion  gynafon  i  greigiau  &c.  e 

504  Hoyan  borcelan  o  borcelyn./  / 
na  cusc  un  orig  dan  frig  kelyn./     .... 

leu  \  ynglydu  blaid  vy  ercwyn./  Merddin  wyllt 

507       Pann  vo  ugain  mlyned  a  euecant  a  cue  mil  yn   derfyn       g 
o  decrau  Adaf  hyd  yr  liaf  hir  felyn  &c. 

509  Merdin   a  dyfod  y    kyfoJeu    kat   las     or   Duyrain  gida    lyu 

draic   &c ends :    Y'na  y    dau    leu    o  Eiverdon    ac  a    diria 

yn  Aberdaugledau  ac  a  letta  y  esgyl  dros  gubul  o  Gymru  a  Loegr  ac 
yn  ol  huimu  y  kaiff  Kymru  liedue  yn  dragywydol./ 

514       Byd  a  dau  bryd  urt  arfcu./     ....  h 

heduc  gwyn  gwastad  a  diu  yn  dieu./ 
516       Pann  del  dlhafarclu  i 

o  bart  gleu  i  Aberhodni     .... 
Loegr  ir  leu  y  gostyngir./ 

518  Pan  vo  ocdran  mab  Mair  kroyu  dec  (1460)     .     .     .     .     k 
ends :  ac  y  dau  Ywain  ai  lu  ai  vaner  i  Vanau./ 

519  Krist  ^cssu  am  ku  am  kydvyd     ....  I 
urcant  drugarcd  kyn  diwed  y  dyd 

523       Hoean  borcelan  moir  anryfed     .     '.     .     ,  m 

gwedi  bod  yn  hir  raeun  altuded./ 

527  [Vmdidan  rinig  Merdin  a  Guendyd  i  ri/cte?-]*  *  *  ir  kened- 
loed  erail  ac  i  vreuin  Lyclyn  yn  anad  yr  un  a  ryffd  y  dioleaf  i  bob 

un  ei   wiad    ei  huu./   &c ends:    Pa    bet    heb  yr  Eryr,  a 

wnaet  yr  ^sracl  kanys  y  Saesson  ai  dial  traha  megis  y  dialassant 
drahaf  y  Bruttanuiaid  gynt./ 

543  Y  keilioc  mynyc  alwed  yr  eo.s  yn  gyflaun  ar  digrifuc  &c.  .  .  . 
ends:  henffyc  gwcl  a  bid  i  ti  amodraul  aia-yded,  erduc  padreuuc 
yni  vo  maru  Tarn  torfoed  lydan./ 

553  Y  lili  a  vlodeua  ai  vloilan  a  vyd  tec,  a  lawer  o  geing^au,  a 
jjob  ryu  gaink  idau  ef  a  divlacna  hob  ffi'uyt  &c. 

557       Ysmau  vi  dilad  iiiJ  lia  daearad  » 

Ysmau  vi  dilad  nid  gulan  kefn  dafad 
Perffkit  yu  varait  iait  digelwyd 
porffor  yu  nilad  o  baradwys  wlad  o  ^■lodeu  gwyd 
Mae  ym  gadair  o  aur  Y  gaer  Sidyd 
meun  gwenrod  yn  troi  rung  tri  elvyd./     .... 
Bryton  a  Gwydyl  ac  anghyfiait  Engl 
namyn  diwyd  gyfeilion  neb* 

"   Unfinished— the  rest  of  this  as  well  as  the  whole  of  the  next  page  is  left  blank. 


JOHN  JONES  GELLI   LYVDY.  113 

561  amies  prydain  vechan 

Droganaf  fi  hynn  kad  y  ipob  meynn :  a 

Kymru  ar  gycvvyn  a  grudust  y  iprydynn./     .... 
anryded  a  rinwed  |  trindod  trugared  Taliessin 

563  kredo  Taliessin  (cf.  p.  631) 

Crist  ifessu  keli  ytti  koeliaf     ....  b 

^eun  it  lielpu  Kymru  |  hy  y  doedaf  .  .  1440     .... 
Y  nertir  Ywain  glain  goleuaf./ 

565       Gur  a^  lefair  yn  y  bed  :  c 

a  dyguyt  kynn  sait  mlyned./     .... 
gan  ffyd  pob  eil  vyd  dadlau./ 
Byt  a  vyd  bryt  urt — unfinished. 

569  Ther  is  nothinge  soe  frequent  in  the  writtings  of  y*  bards  then 
y"  nioule,  y  Twreh  daear  y  Wadd,  y  Talpa,  wAich  is  a  type  of  y* 
<Jp.vill  that  great  Antichrist  &c 

Ni  char  y  kythrel  melyn  /  anwar  dwrch  daear  (fnd^n  d 

That  swarthie  devill  y^  wilde  Mule  &c 

Gryg  /  r  /  oes  Gwaraig  ir  Assen 

Gvvr  ir  wadd  gore  ar  wen*  &c.  &c. 

575  llyma  hrojf'uydoliaet  atron  Tiilys : — Y  mac  rai  yn  medyl- 
iau  ac  yn  dyalt  druy  yr  henu  hunn  gala  yn  Ladin  y  ijymraeg  y 
keiliop  nid  amgea  noc  arwydokau  o  honau  brenin  ftraink./  druy 
Gi,  dalt  brenin  Cicilli;  dray  Le,  dalt  brenin  Kastell;  druy  vuc  dalt 
brenin  Paliologu  druy  Unikorn  dalt  brenin  Loeger,  druy  goryn  dehau 
dalt  brenin  Teuton  druy  Eryr  dyal  brenin  yr  Almaen,  druy  yr  haul 
ar  Loer  y  pab  ar  egluys,  druy  y  pelydr  y  preladiaid  a  gwassnaetwyr 
yr  egluys,  druy  engylion  dyniaul  dalt  urdas  y  pregetwyr  ar  rai 
troednoet,  druy  vrain  y  rai  anffydlonion,  ....  endu :  Y  petau 
hynn  a  anfonais  i  cui  dosbartuc  eui  megis  pet  a  dyleit  ei  wybot  nit 
megis  pet  a  dyleit  ei  gredu. 


Lyma  uerssau  a  gad  yn  lyfr  S^  Hie  o  Geemsuam./ 

582  Kanlan  lyuedoc  arvoc  eirvud  &c.  e 

583  Pan  wisgo  Loegyrwys 

yn  anghynwys  /  yn  ei  kylcyn  &c.  / 

581  Brenhinaet  yr  ysgottiaid  a  vu  gynt  ymplit  brenhiniaeteu  y 

daear   bonhedic  a   cadarn  a  cywaetauc  &c ends :    megis   y 

■dywaid  yr  Eryr  y  IJ-aersepton  y  Brutaniaid  ar  Ysgottiaid  a  lywiant  ei 
"tadolion  dyrnassoed  ac  a  wladycant  yn  danghynefedus  gwedi  gurtlad- 
ant  ei  gelynion  hyt  dyd  braut./  syr  hir  o  gremsvam 

589       Pan  odi  Eissiart  heb  eiii  ehedyn  Yryri     ....  g 

gleu  megis  leu  yn  lad  ei  elyn.  /  hinin  vardd 

591  Dysgogan  awen  len  a  herwyd  &c.  Taliessin     h 

592  Ordot  vronn  gorot  gwiscan  dair  kat     ....  i 
nac  er  ariant  //  dim  nis  kaiFant.  /                                   „ 

596  (A.  praphesie  found  vnder  St.  Denis  &c.)  {see  p.  xii.  b.  above) 

*  Pp.  569-'/4  are  in  a  diflferent  and  slightly  later  hand.      Welsh  and  English  are 
intermixed  throughout. 

e     87130.  H 


114)  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    133. 

602  ||ei  enu,  ef  a  dinessa  leu  y  wirioned  ac  ar  ei  veiciat  ef  yd  ergryn- 
ant  tiroed  firaink  a  dreigiau  yr  ynyssed,  yn  ei  dydiau  ef  y  dau  yr  aur 
or  lilium  ac  or  danat,  ac  o  ewined  y  rai  a  vrefant  y  ret  yr  ariant  y 
kalanistret  a  wisgaiit  amltu  gunoed  &c.  ends  :  y  gwynhau  a  yradorrant 
o  greulaun  cuytedigaet  ac  a  wnaut  sain  y  rung  y  syr.  /     4  June  1623. 

637       Krist  ^essu  kali,  iti  y  koeliaf  *     .... 

Ti  a  dygi  y  Kyraru  oi  kam  ir  gwir  enga  .  .  1560  .  ,  . 

Onid  Taliessitt  nid  oes  gyfarwyd 
640       Byduc  lawen  Kymru  benyed  Beli 

mae/n/  agos  eye  term  urt  ei  fynegi  (1570)     .     .     . 

gwiliuc  a  weloc  gwale  o  Henri     .... 

a  hunnu  a  wna/n/  Luudain  lefain  a  gweidi.  /        Taliessin 


641  Brudiau  :  Ef  a  wnaith  Panton  /  ar  lawr  glyn  Ebron  &c.        c 

642-50  A  running  commentary  in  English  on  certain  passages 
in  the  Welsh  prophesies.  The  name  of  Lancelot  Bulkeley  occurs  at 
the  end  of  p.  648. 

651       When  here  a  Scott  shall  thinke  his  throne  to  sett  d 

Above  the  Circle  of  the  British  King     ,     .     ,     , 
A  Bullocke  of  the  Largest  breed 
Shall  fatted  bee  where  sheep  now  scarce  can  feed. 

653  Nation  shall  rise  against  nation     ....  e 
more  tormf»ts  to  endure 

654  Anglia  te  prodit  tua  gens  Cum  quselibet  odit  &c.  / 

b.  Vo  ddaw  Gwr  a  vedd  Goi-on  &c.  5> 

c.  Vaticinium    Adamsoni  in  .  .  tempore    Caroli    primi  Regibus 
e  Gallis  orietur  Caesar  et  ex  te  frc. 

655  Y  seren  gynffonnog  sidd  arvvudd  nodidog     ....  A* 
ar  breniu  mewn  heddwch  ceifE-  huno 

656  William  Bulkeley  of  Coydane  gets  £2  5  "  in  full  discharge" 
29  Novembris  [16]59. 

b.  Auno  cui     ....     tria  sex  obruitur  rex  &c. 

c.  Mawr  ryfel  digel  daw  geljn  dros  for  &c.  i 


PAET   II. 

ILyfr  Sion  ap  Wiliam  ap  Sion  o  araethet. 

1.  Areith  Jolo  Goch  am  y  rriain  ardderchawg :  [KJyfoeth 
Kvawn  befr  vab  Drothach  wledig  oedd  Wynedd  gynt :  a  chyvoetb 
Brochwel  ysgithroc  oedd  Bywys .  /  A  mackwy  serchowg  ddeddf 
kystvddliw  devrvdd  las  o  gyvoeth  Ervawn  Befr  oedd  yn  Uadrad 
garv  nebvn  rriain  .  .  .  .  o  deyrnlwyth  Brochwel  Ysgithroc  &c. 
.  .  .  .  e7ids :  Arglwyddes  heb  y  gwas  pa  bryd  bydd  hynnyf 
Pann  vo  kynn  deked  ol  dwgen  ddvgloff  yn  kerdded  tomen  y  Bala, 
ac  ol  Olwen  verch  Yspadaden  penn  kawr  yr  honn  y  tyvai  pedair 
meillionen  gwynnion  yn  olav  i  thraed  pa  le  bynnac  y  kerddai  hi./ 

*   Cf.  p.  563  above. 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   134.  115 

11.  TLyma  araitli  Jevan  brydydd  Mr:  ILawer  o  bethav  gwi'th- 
wyneb  yswaeth  y  sydd  i  serchowgrwydd  val  y  gwyr  ^evan  brydydd 
bir   o   wylldineb  sercli,  o  lesineirwydd   ovyddiaoth  yn   llesmeiriaw 

kysgv  &c ends  : 

gwenn  araf,  liw  gwawn  oror  « 

gwnn  yw  lliiv  gauv  llawer./  Jevan  brydydd  Mr 

15.  TLyma  araith  a  wnaeth  Sion  Tvdvr  i  anredyd  yr  englynion 
a  wnaeth  Anneirin  gwowdrvdd  ar  y  missoedd  yn  llys  Maelgwn 
Gwynedd :  j 

Mis  ifonov  myglyd  dyffrynn  b 

gnawd  kwi'w  lie  bo  kerwyn  &c.  (see  above  MS.  129) 

This  MS.  ends  witli  the  6th  line  of  the  2nd  "  Englyn  "  on  page  16. 


MS.  134.  Genealogies,  Arms,  &c.  :  Paper ;  8|  X  5|  inches ; 
84  folios  ;  early  xviitb  century  ;  bound  in  Russia  leather.  Folios 
3-8  are  more  or  less  imperfect,  the  paper  having  decayed. 

1  and  2.  Wanting.     3  and  4.   Greater  part  torn  away. 

5.  ILyma  Enway  y  Tayr  Sir  Gwynedh  ay  luomydav  ay  Trefydh 
dinas  y  gyd  ar  y  sydh  ynghymry  : — 

'Sir  Von  :  Kwmjdeu  Menai,  Malhtraetb,  ILifon,  Talybolmon  \_sic\, 

Tindaethwy,  Twr  kelyu. 
Sir   Gaer  Narfon :    Tri   Ch-frmwd   ILj>n,  kymyt  maen,   Gwlogion, 

Tinllaen,   yfionydd,  Ywch   Gorfai,   fs   Gorfai,   ILecbwedb    ycha, 

ILechwedh  ^ssa,  y  kereddyn,  Nan  konwy. 
Sir   feirionydh:    kwmwd    yr   dydwy,    ystymauer,    Pen     ILynu,    y 

Deirnion,  Tal  y  Bont,  ar  Syni. 

Omng  to  the  partial  decay  of  the  MS.  a  complete  list  of  "  treuydh  dinas  " 
and  of  the  "  pymp  llwyth  "  cannot  be  made  out. 

5b.  Pymthec  llwyth  Gwynedh — imperfect. 

6.  Y  fair  Beriach — imperfect. 

Yspyssrwydd  Gwehelt/th  hall  Gyinry :- — 

Gwehelyth    tir     Dehevbarth     (66),     Powys    (7),    Nanav     (7-8), 
Morgannwc  &  Gweut  (8),  Dyfed  (86),  Kadellic  o  gegidfa  (86- 
106)  ;  ILwyth  ywch  ayron. 
106.  Jack  y  Pymp  breninllwyth  liymry  :  Gwynedh,  Powys,  Rhwng 
Gwy  a  Hafren,  Morgannwg,  a  Deheybarth. 

116.  Jack  Pymthec  llwyth  Givynedh:  ILwyth  Men,  Tegaiugl, 
Dyffryn  klwyd,  Penllyn. 

12^  Swydh  Ddimbych  :  ILwytheu  Js  Aled,  Ywch  Aled,  ywch  Dvlas, 
Js  Dvlas//  Mon,  ardvdwy,  meirionydh,  Arfon,  yn  Arllechwedh,  Nan 
konwy,  kynllaith. 

14.  Trevor  llangollen :  Maths  wynn  app  dd:  ap  Bdw:  &c. 

146.  Y  Traian,  Swydh  y  Drewen,  Trayan  Swydh  Groesysswallt. 

15.  Plant  Kynfyn;  Plant  Bleddyn  ap  Kynfyn. 

156,  Plant  Ririd,  Meredith,  a  Chadwgan,  meib  Bleddyn;  Plant 
madoc  a  Gruffi  meib  Mred: 

166.  Harry  VIII.  o  ran  y  kymrv. 
17.  Ach  y  gwr  y  naeth  Abergwili. 

II  2 


116  MOSTYN   MAMUSCBIPT    134. 

SiK  Aberteivi  :  Vwch  Kerditi^TLe'n  ap  Gwillim  lloyd  &c.  (176), 
Meibion  mr  Hugh  ap  ILe'n  lloyd  a  phlant  Da^rid  ddy  (18)  Gwernan 
(186),  ILanvair  glydoge—DA.  ap  ^eu:  lloyd  ychan  &c.  a  meib  dd.  ap 
howellychan  (19);  Arglwydd  y  7>«)y»— Morgan  ^ohii  ap  Eees  ap 
Eudd3  &c.  (20)  ;  Ache  Pentre  Jvan  (206)  ;  Ach  Lewes  dd  ap  meredydh 
(21);  Vwch  ^«)-on— Tyhvyth  ^euan  ap  Rudd}  ap  ^euan  lloyd  &c.; 
&  Gilvach  we?i— Sienk'in  ap  Eees  &c.  (216)  ;  Dd:  ap  lle'n  o  Gefn 
Melgoed;  &  Y  Tywyn  Mawr—RaMi  ap  Eees  &c.  (22)  ;  Ceraint 
dam  Sioned  Mathe  yn  ywch  Avron  (23)  ;  Gilvach  Wen—Ys  Kerdin— 
Corrwys  (23). 

Sir  Gaer  Fyrddin  :  Aber  Maries — Sr  Harry  vab  Sr  Thomas 
Johnes  (236)  ;  Vychans  Clan  towy  (24)  ;  Pan  oedh  oed  Kriat  1531  y 
darfu  am  Mr  Eees  ap  S--  Gruff  (246)  ;  Sr  Eees  ap  Thomas  (25)  ;  Rhyd 
Odyn  ynghayo  ;  &  Llan  y  Krwys  (266)  ;  Gwilhm  G05  ap  Thomas  &c. 
(276)  ;  S"'  ^ohn  Wgan  ap  sr  ^ohn  wogan  o  Wgan  y  Wgan  //  or  Vychans 
or  Harberth  o  waed  dav  lidr  &e.  (2H6)  ;  ILan  ystyphan — Eees  lloyd 
ap  E.  lloyd  &c. ;  and  Aber  gwili — Lewis  ap  tho:  ap  ^ohn  &c.  (29) ; 
merched  Gr:  ap  Nicholas  o  Siaen  (296)  ;  Plant  Gr:  ap  Nicholas  0  vabli 
V5  Vredydh  ap  Henri  Dwn  ag  o  V3  Sr  Thomas  Perod  (30) ;  JLan  llwni 
— Dauid  lloyd  ap  howell  &c.  (306)  ;  Plant  Thomas  ap  Gr :  ap  Nicolas 
(316);  Merched  Henry  ap  gwilim  ap  Tho' Vychan  (32);  Plant  Gr: 
ap  kvnan  (326)  ;  John  ILoyd  o  dywi(?)  (33);  Pew  Kelliymyl  y  Kastell 
Neioydd  yn  Emlyn — Eees  Thomas  ap  Ow:  ap  0«r:  ap  ^enkin  lloyd  o 
Gemais  &c.;  and  Kwinivd  is  Kennen — G*.  ap  ifeuan  ll'n  ddv  hv,.  (34) ; 
ILwelin  Voythys  ;  &  Plwyf  y  Disserth  (346)  ;  Llanvihangel  brynbvan 
(356)  ;  Forth  Amal — Sr.  Eosser  vychan  vab  M""  Wakin  Vychan  .  . 
o  drer  Twr  &c.  (366)  ;  ILan  Gathen — meib  Harry  ap  Eees  dd  hir 
(376)  ;  Games  Eyd  .  .  .  .  ap  Tho :  Eyd  h^n  o  Harotwn  Cwrt  ^estys 
Sir  Gaer  Fyrddin  (39)  ;  Tir  Kidweli — ystrad  Morfbyor  ym  hwlwy 
llan  dyfayloc — Gr:  Dwn  ap  ow:  dwm  ap  Eob:  dwn  ap  gr:  &c.  (396). 

Sir  Fysta'ed — Eichardvab  Hugh  &c.  (406). 

Sir  Vtnwy — y  Wern  goch,  Dd:  ap  Wm:  Morgan  &c. 

MoRGANWC — y  Koety,  M"'  ^ohn  Gamaidg  ap  Eob  &c.  Tal  y  Uyn — 
Hughe  ap  ho'U  &c. ;  Tre  degyr — Morgan  ap  ll'n  &c. ;  Elvel  ywch 
Mynydd—E\en  vj  dd  ap  Eeea  &c.  (41)  ;  jD^mjc— 1607— W"-  y 
kynqwerwr  y  nillodd  Loeger  //  gidae  e£  y  doyth  syr  Eosser  ffytz  hamwon 
a  syr  Eoger  de  Londres  &c.  (416)  ;  Wilcoc  twrbil  &c. ;  S'  William 
riemin  &c.  (426).;  TFhitne—S''  James  o  Whitne  &c.  (43)  ;  Kil  yrw— 
Eosser  vychan  ap  Eos:  vy:  .  .  .  o  Hergnest  ;  and  Y  dre  newydd 
(^Y marchmoc)  Merched  Ed:  Games  &c.  (436). 

Sir  Dre  Valdwyx./  Sion  gwyn  Owain  ap  Ho  .veil  vychan  (44); 
Kastell  maen — Eees  ap  IL'in  &c.  ;  Herstle — James  Bascertield  (446) ; 
JLin  Wennen — Arg:  ILin  W:  //  John  ap  gwatkin  &c, ;  Trer  delin — 
John  Mil  vap  Henri  &c. ;  Morys  or  Mwr  ap  dd  ap  Eees  &c. ;  Glascwm 
— Thomas  ap  John  &c.  (45). 

Elvel  ywch  mynydh — Plant  Hyve  dd  ap  Lewes ;  Y  Eosse»aid — 
S'  Eosser  ap  Eosser  hen  ap  g'  Sais  &c.  (456). 

TiR  Gw^R — Gr:  ap  gr  :  gwyr  &c.  (456). 


Ardau./  Dyma  enwav  y  hynqwerwyr  y  rhai  yddoith  y  WLAD 
VoRGANWC  av  harvav.*  j 

46.  Arvav  Jarll  Clar,  Spenser,  Jarjl  Staffart,  fflemin,  gwenn  vo, 
Dalaber,  Tuberuil,  Gamais,  Ystradlin,  Butler,  Aig:  Barclev,  Arg:  ILan 
Dochav,  Began,  y  Kemaisaid,  Maliffant. 

•  After  each  name  a  description  of  the  arms  follows. 


CIENEALOGIES,   ARMS,   ETO.  ]17 

466.  GwENT  :  Arvav  S"^  Thomas  Morgan,  Gwion  Benarw,  .=yr 
Wilcok  Wiriot,  si/r  Ed:  Hasting ;  Kydifor  vawr  o  Vlaen  Kych,  IL'in 
mredydd  gam  o  ddyfed,  Kydifor  ap  Dinawal  o  gredigion,  Meilir  ap 
gwallawc  ap  gwaith  voed  o  gredigion,  Bledri  ap  Kydifor. 

47.  Arvav  sgr  Ed:  Crofft,  Kydwgan  Vawr  o  Gydweli,  syr  Williaw* 
Herbart  o  golbrook,  Edwyn,  Tydvr  trevor,  Bleddyn  ap  kynvyn, 
Elystan  glodrydd,  Gwaith  voed  o  Wynedd,  Marchrydd,  Ehyrid  Vlaidb, 
syi-  The:  Johnes,  &yr  Wm.  Thomas  ap  Ruddj  ap  Rees,  Gwilim  goch 
ap  the:  ap  tho:  vychan. 

476.  Arvav  syr  Wm.  Mathew,  syr  James  W™,  John  Scudmor,  y 
Rhj^ds,  yr  Adames  o  sir  Aherteiji,  g'  ap  ^^euan,  gr:  gwyr,  gr:  vab  gr: 
gwyr,  Gronwy  goch  o  sir  Gaerfyrddin. 

486.  Sertain  a  arvav  ILoeger  ac  eraill : — IPawcyn  ar  ifedrlog  dros 
^ork  ....  John  lloyd  o  dywi  ....  Broehwel  yscithroc  ....  Rees 
ap  Tewdwr,  ILawdden  o  gredigion,  Kynon  ap  ^ago,  Gwyddno  garonir 
arg:  Mirionydd,  .  .  .  ^estyn  ap  Gwrgan  twssoc  Moi-gannwc,  Madoc 
ap  Saythydd. 

49.  Plwy  Abergwili //  Cwmwd  Whidigada  ya  Sir  gaer  fyrddinj 
Arvav  syr  Aron  ap  Ynyr  marchoc  ac  Arg:  (iwidi  gada  ac  Elved. 

496.  Y  Matheuaid — Dauid  Mathev  ap  Jeuan  ap  gr:  gethin  &c. 

6.  Plant  -frien  ap  Kynvarch. 

c.  Yr  Adub  :  Sioned  V3  Domas  ....  a  briodes  ^eu:  ap  ll'n  ap 
Cynwric  y  Radur  y  Morgannwe. 

50.  Brycheinoc — S"^  dauid  gam  ap  ll'n  ap  he'll  &c. 

6.  Gwraic  briod  Dauid  Machen  Hen  oedh  Wenllian  vj  dd  ap  Gwi: 
♦  .  .  .  o  Gerniw  &c.  &c. 

516.  Enioav  y  nawnyn  y  diriwyd  yn  fforest  Glyn  kothi : — (1) 
Gronwy  goch  yn  fforest  y  Penaint ;  (2)  Madoc  ap  Saethydd  yn  y 
JLystyn;  (3)  ^euan  ap  ferorth  ap  Tegri  yn  y  Croff't ;  (4)  Madoc 
Velyn  ap  Madoc  ap  Saethydd  yn  y  Brithdir ;  (5)  Madoc  Vychan  ap 
Madoc  ap  Saethydd  yii  yr  Esgair  verr ,-  (6)  Morwni  Vaerwraic  yw  y 
voel  Goloroc ;  (7)  Kynvric  vinrwth,  y  myarth  TLwni ;  (8)  Y  lleidr 
Melyn  y  mhwll  kynbyd ;  (9)  Dauydd  Mailir  yn  yr  Esgair  hir. 

Rent  y  Bre»hin  yu  r  amser  hynny  ar  y  nawnyn  hyn  am  dir  y  fforest 
oedd  Trigain  ar  bob  vn  or  nawnyn;  sef  yw  hynny  Trigain  a  dwy 
bynt. 

ifevaa  Brechva  ap  ^erorth  a  sgrivennodd  hyn  o  gyfrwydhyd  &c. 

52.  Arvav  Braint  Hir,  Hedd  ap  Molwynoc,  March  weithian,  &  Evnydd 
ap  Gwerngwy. 

526.  Ros  Gelyn  ym  Mun  :  ILe'in  ap  Mred:  &c. 

53.  Gwehelylh  G-went :  Morgan  ap  ho'U  ap  yerorth  &c. 

56.  Plant  Kaw,  ILwarch  Hen,  Vrien,  Gorwyst  Ledlwm,  a  Kynfarch 
Oer. 

566.  Siir  f ohn  dwn  ap  gr:  &c.  ;  Meuenydh—TLwMeu  ap  ferorth  &c. 

'57.  Hyfaidd  Henllyn  Arg:  Maesyfaidd ;  Ryn  ap  gronwy  vychan ; 
Meisgin  meibon  y  bach  ap  y  gwaith  voed// 

576.  Sain  Henydd.j    Madoc  ap  ho^  Velyn  &c. 

b.  Pymthec  llwyth  gwynedh :  and  (61)  Gwynedd. 

646.  Tre  Escob  :  M'  Lewes  gwyn  ap  ^enkin  &c. ;  Powys :  Tho=  ap 
Rees  &c. 


118  MQSTYN  MA.NUSCEIPT   134. 

65.  Ciomwd  hirfnjn  ILanvair  or  Brynn :  Del:  ap  ho'l  ap  Kudd}  &c. 
656.  Aber  Ka-nric :  Eees  Awbrey  ap   Wm.   Awbrey  &c.    {see  666 

aw(Z68). 

66.  Phillip  Johres  ap  gw"  ap  dd  ap  gwatkin  &c. 

666.  Brycheinoc  dijfjf'ryn  wysg  :  W™  Awbrey  ap  liopkin  &c.. 

67.  S'  William  gr:  Chambrlen  Gwynedh  ap  mjr  Wm:  ap  gr:  ap  H'n 
&c. ;  Brychinoc  :   f  ohn  games  ap  ^ohn  &c. 

676.  Merched  Gr:  ap  ll'ia  Voythys  ;  plant  gwilim  ap  Ph:  ap  Elidr  ddv. 

68.  Gwehelyth  yr  Awbreyeid  {cf.  66b  and  666)  :  Morys  Awbrey 
ap  dd  ap  Morgan  Awbrey  &c. 

686.  Mr  ^obn  Phillip  ap  syr  thomas  ap  Ph:  marchog  &c. 

69.  Kicmicd  hirfryn,  ILanvair  or  Brynn  [see  fol.  65), 
696.  Edward  Games  ap  ]fohn  ap  Morgan  &e. 

70.  Tre :  r  /  Twr  :  William  Vjchan  ap  Christor  vyehan  he. 
706.  I{'7-ug  Hoioel :  Edward  Harbart  vab  Walkin  harbart  &c. 
6.   Sain  Silian .   Lewes  gwnter  ap  tho:  ap.  Wm.  &e. 

71.  TLcmnhaniKlch  .   Sion  Walbi  ap  Rob.  Walbi  &c. 

716.  Pencelli:  Ricliard  Harbart  ap  Mr.  Eich:  Harbart  &c. 
b.  Harri  Vychau  ap  Edwart  ap  tho:  &c. 

72.  Si/r  .Tames  o  Whitne  ap  syi-  Robert  &c. 
726.  Watkin  ap  Thomas  ap  Rees  ap  Lewes  &c. 

73.  Abcr  Hoddni  :  Thomas  Lewes  ap  H'n  ap  Morgan  &c. 
756.  JSlvel  ywch  mynydd :  Lewes  ap  dd  ap  Jeffrey  &c. 
766.  Hanleii  y  Elvel :  Morgan  ap  33  ap  Jcffre  &c, 

776.   Y  Warn  goch  yn  sir  Vynnivy  :  Dauidd  ap  William  morgan  &c, 
h.   Gorddior  Melenydd :  Owen  ap  gr:  ap  Mredd  &c. 

78.  Plant  Henri  VII. 

79.  Sir  Henffordd :  Thomas  ap  Siarl  ap  Thomas  Ac. 
80  &  81.  Wanting.     82-3.  Index, 

836.  William  Lord  Compton  Lord  President  ....  is  descended  from 
the  Waldonns.  Richard  Walden  of  Chrich  &c.  Then  follow  entries 
re  the  Wogans  &  Cadarns  of  Prendergast. 

84,  Y  Kynta  wnaeth  Tabler  yr  ioed  oedd  fferyll  &c 

Gwraic  Pylatus  a  Elwyd  Prociila  o  ynys  y  Bont. 

846.  Blank. 


MS.  135.  The  Romances  of  Peredur,  &  Bown  of  Hampton,  and 
the  Mabinogion  :  Paper ;  8|  x  6  inches  ;  268  pa^es  ;  end  of  the  xvith 
century  ;  bound  m  Russia  leather.  The  name  of  "  Thomas  Evans  1607  " 
occurs  at  the  end  of  the  MS.  (pp.  265  and  268)  in  a  later  hand.  Pages 
173-4,  266-7  are  blank.  " 

The  text  of  this  MS.  is  a  direct  transcript  of  the  White  Book  of 
Roderick  (=  Peniarth  MSS.  4  and  5).  That  the  original  MS.  was 
damaged  when  this  copy  was  made  is  proved  by  the  blank  spaces  left 
in  the  text  pf  the  transcript ;  peculiarities  of  orthography  are  also  repro- 


MABINOGION,   ETC.  119 

duced  in  this  copy  in  certain  passages.  The  copy  follo-ws  the  system  of 
lunderdotting  d,  1,  u  when  these  denote  dd,  11,  and  w  respectively.  The 
vowel  u  is  over-dotted  thus — ii ;  while  u  =  v  ;  V  =  W. 

1.  Efrauc  iarl  bioed  iarlaeth  yny  Gcogled  a  seith  nieib  oed  idau  ac  nyt 
oe  gyfoeth  yn  benhaf  yd  ymborthei  Efrauc  namyn  o  turneimeint  ac 
ymladeii  a  rhyueloed./  ....  ends:  Ac  yna  y  trenis  Arihiir  ae  teiilii 
gan  yguidonot  ac  y'las  guidonot  kaer  Loyu  ol./  Ac  vely  y  treythir  o 
gaer  yr  Enrhyfedodeii  / 

59.  Yn  Ham  tun  yd  oed  ^arl  a  eluit  Giun  ac  aruer  a  unaetli  na  vynnei 
ureic  yn  y  ieueigtit  [s«c]./  A  guedy  hynny  pan  ymdrciglaud  parth  a 
henaint  y  gureickaud  ....  ends  :  y  duyn  eii  hcneideii  yr  nef  at  dilu./ 
En  guylau  a  orugant  y  nos  hoquo  hyt  trannoeth  au  nyt  oed  da  gan  Gei 
vrenhin  eii  cladii  uynt  ymplilh  dynyon  ereil,  ef  a  beris  uneiithiir  ysgrin 
o  vein  marmor  a  pheri  y  vrenhiued  ac  escyb  duyn  y  kyrph  yr  egluys  a 
t)arassei  ef  ehiin  y  uneiithiir  yn  enu  Saint  Laurens  ac  yna  y  coronauyt 
Oei  o  goron  Mumbraunt./     Ac  y  vely  y  teruyna  ystoria  Boun. 

175.  Pwyl  pendeiiic  dyuet  a  oed  yn  argluyd  ar  seith  gantref  dyuet 
,  .  .  .  ends :  Sef  gureic  a  vynnaud  Kuna  [sic]  verch  Wynn  Gohoyu  vab 
Gloyu  wait  lydan  vab  Cassanar  wledic  o  dylcdogyon  yr  ynys  honn./  Ac 
J  ■yely  y  tervyna  y  geing  honn  ynia  or  mabyunogyon./ 

202.  Bendigeidiiran  vab  Lyr  a  oed  vrenhin  coronauo  ar  yr  ynys  honn, 
S.0  ardyrchauc  o  goron  Lilndein  ....  ends :  ac  o  acliaus  yspadaut 
Vran  pan  aeth  y  niuer  pedeir  deculat  a  seith  vgeint  y  guerdon  y  dial 
paluaut  Branuen  ac  am  y  ginyau  yn  hardlech  seith  nilyned  ac  am 
gaoyat  adar  Rhianon  ac  yspydaut  benn  peduar  vgeint  mlyned. 

222.  Guedy  daruot  3'r  seithuyr  a  dyuedyssam  ni  vchot  cladii  penn 

Bendigeidiiran  yny  Guyfilvryii  &c ends:  Ac  o  aehaus  y  carchar 

hunnu  y  geluit  y  kyuaruydyt  Imnnu  mabinogi  myuucir  a  niynord./  Ac 
y  vely  y  teriiyna  y  geing  honn  yma  or  mabynogy./ 

240.  Math  vab  mathonuy  oed  argluyd  ar  Vyned  a  Phryderi  vab  Puyl 

■oed  argluyd  ar  vn  cantref  ariigeint  yny  deheii  &c ends :  Ynteii 

Leu  Laugyphes  a  oreskynnuys  eilueith  y  ulat  ac  ay  guledychuys  yn 
luydanhiis.  A  heruyd  y  dyueit  y  kyuaruydyt  ef  a  vii  argluyd  uedy 
hynny  ar  Vyned  |  Ac  y  vely  y  teruyna  y  geing  honn  or  mabinogi./  finis. 

268.  Table  of  contents  in  a  later  hand. 


ItlS.  136.  Robert  Vaughan's  letter  to  Ussher,  and  Welsh  Poetry 
in  the  autograph  of  the  antiquary.  Paper;  8  x  6  inches ;  172  pages; 
bound  in  Eussia  leather.  Pages  2,  3  are  in  a  later  hand ;  1,5,7,13, 
17,  19,  21,  23,  25,  29,  31,  33,  35,  37,  39,  41,  43,  and  44,  80-92  are 
blank  ;  9-12  are  wanting. 

An  inquiry  into  the  dates  of  the  death  of  Maelgwn,  the  Battle  of 
Arderyth,  and  the  going  of  Cadwaladr  to  Rome.  The  inquiry  begins 
with  the  following  chronicle  : — 

2.  Life  of  Vortigern  to  the  Battle  of  Bannesdown  where 

Arthur  fought  and  overcame  the^axons  -  128  years. 

From  the  Battle  of  Bannesdown  to  y^  Battle  of  Camlan  -       22      „ 
From  Camlan's  battle  to  the  death  of  Maelgwn         -       -       10      „ 
From  the  death  of  Maelgwn  to  the  Battle  of  Arderith     »       25      „ 
From  Battle  of  Arderith  untill  Gwrgi  and  Peredur  were 
slain  -  .  -  -  -  -  '        'J     » 


120  MOSTTN   MANUSCRIPT   136. 

From  the  death  of  Gwrgi  and  Peredur  to  the  Battle  of 

Caerlegion       -  -  -  -  -  -       19  yearsr^ 

From  the  Battle  of  Caerlegion  to  the  Battle  of  Meigen    -       14      „ 

From  the  Battle  of  Meigen  unlill  Cadwaladr  y«  Blessed 

went  to  Rome  -  -  -  -  -       48      „ 

Starting  with  the  date  of  the  Battle  of  Camlan  as  542,  it  is  showa 
that  Vortigern  was  born  in  392  ;  tliat  Bannesdown  was  fought  in  520  j 
that  Maelgwn  "  died  to  sin  and  the  world  "  (not  a  natural  death)  in  552, 
because  Gildas  "  speaking  of  himself  say  th  he  was  borne  in  y"  year  y' 
Bannesdown  was  faught  ....  520  and  that  in  the  44  th  year  of  his 
age  he  first  published  his  epistle  which  denoteth  564  ....  at  what 
tyme  he  also  saith  y'  Maelgwn  lived  &  flourished.  And  io  another 
copie  [belonging  to  Sir  Eobert  Cotton]  of  the  same  epistle  ....  it  is 
said  that  Maelgwn  when  he  had  reigned  5  years  died  "...."  Now 
having  ....  confined  Maelgwns  death  betweene  the  yeare  564 . 
wherein  Gildas  first  published  his  Epistle  and  Maelgwn  lived,  and  the 
yeare,  570  .  wherein  Gildas  (who  survived  Maelgwn)  died  ....  [is]  it 
not  probable  that  the  number  of  yeares  from  Camlans  battell  to 
Maelgwns  death,  &  from  his  death,  to  j"  battell  of  Arderith  are 
misplaced,  to  witt  y«  one  for  y«  other,  as  from  y"  battell  of  Camlan  an* 
542 .  to  Maelgwns  death,  if  in  steade  of  .  x  .  yeares  yo"  reckon  25  .  & 
from  his  death  to  y^  battyll  of  Arderith  y"  said  .  x  .  years,  it  denoteth  that 
Maelgwn  died  within  y*  sayd  limited  tyme  &  in  y^  yeare  567  .  &  y' 
battell  of  Arderith  fals  alsoe  in  its  owne  tyme,  y*  is  in  th^  yeare  577."^ 
If  from  567  we  deduct  the  "  5  yeares  raigne "  (Gildas  and  Mat.  of 
Westminster)  we  find  that  Maelgwn  was  crowned  in  562  "  as  HumfErey 
lloyd  in  his  Description  of  Britain  allegeth  out  of  a  British  Law  book 
(which  I  also  have  seen)  "  &c.  (pp.  3-8). 

Arderith,  577  :  "  When  J  thinke  of  the  slight  cause — (a  larkes  neast^ 
being  the  cause  thereof) — of  this  battell  of  Arderyd  betweene  Piytherch,. 
Gwenddoleu  &  Aeddan,  and  the  battell  betweene  JEdaa  mac  Gabran 
the  Scottish  king  and  the  Picts  upon  the  like  cause,  and  alsoe  when  J 
observe  the  coherence  betweene  y^  names  Kintillus,  Gabran  or  Gouran 
&  Mian  the  Scottish  kings,  with  Gwendolen,  Gavran  &  Aeddan  the- 
Britaines,  J  much  suspect  that  sonoe  of  the  acts  of  these  British  princes 
have  crept  into  the  stories  of  those  Scottish  kings  their  neighbours,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  Acts  of  the  noble  Owen  ap  Vrien  father  of  Kentigerm 
chiefe  bishop  of  the  north  of  Britaine,  and  of  ILew  ap  Kynvarch  y'  upon, 
the  sister  of  king  Arthur  begat  Mordred  the  trayter  and  Gwalchmai 
which  may  be  promiscuously  couched  in  the  stories  of  Eugen  then  third 
king  of  the  Scotts  and  Lotho  king  of  the  Picts,  who  is  vntruly  sayd  to 
be  the  father  of  Mordred  and  Gwalchmai  aforesuid,  for  it  is  extant  in 
our  British  antiquities  that  TLew  and  Lotho  were  distinct  persons,  but 
living  neere  the  same  tyme.  And  J  thinke  this  error  hath  been  grounded 
on  the  mistranslation  of  the  British  history  by  Geffrey  of  Monmouth 
■who  calleth  ILew  one  of  the  husbands  of  Anna  King  Arthurs  sister  by 
the  name  of  Lotho,  whereas  in  all  British  copies  of  that  historic  he  is 
called  ILew  and  not  Lotho,  which  misinterpreting  gave  occasion  to  the 
Scottish  historians  and  others  to  thinke  that  Loiho  king  of  the  Picts  was 
father  to  the  traytcur  Mordred ;  whereas  wee  have  yet  some  British 
bookes  extant  &  very  authentike  which  mention  both  and  averre  that 
ILew  or  Leo  the  sonne  of  Cynvarch  ap  Meirchion  was  the  father  of 
Mordred  and  that  ILewddyn  luyddawc  o  ddinas  Eiddyn  yny  gogledd 
&c.  i.e.  Lotho  the  popular  (because  he  could  muster  many  men)  of  the 
citty  Eiden  in  the  north,  was  father  to  Thameta  the  mother  of  Kentigern  " 
(pp.  32^  34).'  '  -  -  .  ,        ■ 


THE  BATTLE   OF  ARDERITH,   ETC.  121 

Gwrgi  and  Pei'edur  were^killed  in  584  by  Edda  Glinmawr  (witness 
"the  ancient  genealogies  of  our  British  Saints")  who"wasmab  Gwyllty 
dra'ng  mab  Mwgmawr  drefydd  mab  Osca  gyllellfawr  brenhin  y  Saeson 
y  gwr  a  ymladdawdd"  aC  Arthur  yngwaith  Vaddon  "  -which  the  writer 
equates  with  Bannesdowne  (p.  38)  .... 

Vaughan,  following  Matthew   of  Wjestminster  and  Beda,   fixes  the 
battle  of  Caerlegion  iu  the  year  603  and  that  of  Meigen  in  633.     "  Our 
chronologie  recisoneth  but  14  yeares  from  Caerlegion  battell  to  y"  battell 
of  Meigen  yet  it  reckoneth  48  years  from  Meigen  to  Cadwaladr's  going; 
to  Rome,  and  both  these  numbers  .  .  .  make  62  .  which  being  added  to 
y«  yeare  of  the  battell  of  Caerlegion  an"  603  .  will  manifest  y'  Cadr  went 
to  Rome  in  ...  .  665.     And  so  owr  Chronologie  though  it  faileth  in 
y«  particular  yet  it  is  right  in  y«  gene/all,  for  from  the  battell  of  Caer- 
legion An°  603  .  is  30  .  yeares  to  y®  battell  of  Meigen  (as  f  have  cut  of 
Beda  proued  before)   and  not '  14.      And  from  Meigen   to  Cadwaladr 
going  to  Rome  is  32  &  not  48  .  &  30  &  32  .  wil  make  62  .  as  ^  have  said 
before.     Moreover  Geff'rey  Mummuth  doth  confesse  that  his  going  to 
Britan  Armorick  &  soe  to  Rome  was  in  y^  tyme  that  the  great  mortality 
happened  ...  in  665  ...  in  prolonging  (Jadwaladrs  life  to  the  yeare 
688  .  or  689  .  and  his  going  to  Rome,  to  pope  Sergius  his  tyme,  J  thinke- 
they  had  noe  other  warrant  for  it  but  their  mistaking  Cadwalla  the  Saxon 
king  of  Wessex  (who  went  to  Rome   at  this   tyme  &  died   there)  to  be 
the  same  with  Cadwalader  :  whereby  they  have  much  confounded  his  story 
&  brought  it  to  a  great  deale  of  doubt  &  vncertainty."  (pp.  40,  42)   .  .  . 
"  Osguid  filius  Edelfrid  regnavit .  28  .  annis  et  sex  mensibus  [642-70], 
dum  ipse  regnabat  venit  mortalitas  hominum.      Gatgualater  regnante- 
apud  Britones  post  patrem  suum,  et  in  ea  perijt."     Ancient  tract. 


Cywybeu  etc.  by  Tddur  Penllyn. 

45  O  dduw  y  rhawg  a  ddaw  Rys     ....  or 
a  chwery  Rhys  ni  char  hwn 

46  Wyr  Einion  ai  fToii'ffinied  y  Saeson  fr 
iw  sessiwu  na  chyrched 

ef  a  delw  fyw  dialed 

49  Marionad  Mallt  vj,  howel    Sele  o   Nanney    gwraig   Gi:-  ap 
Siancijn  o  Lwydiarth. 
F'arglwyddes  feistres  oedd  fyw  a  difalch     .     .     ,     ,  e 

achel  a  weles'ychel' wiliau./ 

52  Blin  yw  ymddiffin  am  dda     ....  <f 
a  thua'r  IFlint  a  tlirwy  i  plilwm 

53  Gruffudd  beisrudd  Bowsran     ....  e 
a  gwin  yn  Nannau  a  gaf 

55       ^  nai  'r  iarll  yr  wy  'n  darllain     ....  jf 

cann  haf  i  Watcyn  hefyd./ 

67       Gwrda  gwych  Uewych  llawir     ....  g- 

tal  glin  Gruffydd  Gethin  goeth 

59  Wyr  Einion  ai  fibri  ffinied  y  Saeson  h 

holl  Siessir  dystrywied     .... 
Haw  a  dyrr  onwydfl  wyr  Einion 

60  Reinallt  Nudd  Gruffydd  goreuffed  Bleddyn     ....  f 
a  ranno  duw  i  Reinallt 


122  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    136. 

62       Carw  sercli  y  cywiriaici    .     ...  « 

dy  gar  a  ddiylch  dy  gwn* 
64       Mawr  iawn  ith  gar  Meirionydd     ....  b 

a  duach  ydyw  d'ewythr 
66   Cowydd  i  ofyn   tarw  gun  Reinallt    ap    Gr:    ap    Bleddyn 
dros  Ruff:  Fychan   o  gorsygedol. 

Tail-  annerch  attad  Reinallt     ,     .     .     ,  c 

eryr  y  Twr  er  y  tai'w 
68   Cowydd  i  dd  ap  Siancyn  pan  oedd  ar  herw 

Can  nos  daed  cynnes  d'adail     ....  d 

■wyth  goed  a  dail  ath  geidw  di 

70  Cowydd  i  Jeuan  Gr:  ap  Siancyn  o  Lwydiarth 

Clefyd  ymrig  gwyl  ^^efan     ....  e 

can  nadolig  cyii  d'elor 

71  Y  ty  ni  ffy  o  ddiar  y  ffordd     ....  / 
Iwyr  y  rhwng  Lowri  a  Rhys 

73  Cowydd  cymod  i  Fredudd  ap  JLn  ap   Jeuan  ap  ILh  o 

Eneur  glynn 
Torrais  dydd  fal  dyn  trist  dall     ....  g 

a  maddeuant  am  ddeuwyl 

74  Cowydd  i  dri  mab  llh  Fychan  o  Jal 

Tri  dyn  a  gan  dyn  gan  dant     .     .     .     ,  h 

tri  liael  poed  da  yr  arhon./ 
76  Awdl  i  leidr  a  elwid  Gr:  ab  deicws.J 

Gruifydd  ti  a  gei  refEyn     ....  i 

triffen  march  arnad  Ruffydd 


CxwYDEu  by  ^EUAN  TuDDR  Penllyn. 

93  Y  Hew  vn  ddull  a  Howel     ....  k 
ath  S.d  Wiliam  ith  dylwyth 

94  jf  feu:  ap  Rob: 

Yn  wyt  ai  arf  a  wna  les     .     .     .     .  I 

i  hun  fo  ladd  vn  ne  ddau./ 

96  3Iar:  dd:  llwyd  ab  Cad'r  a  Reinallt  ap  Gr:  ab  Bleddyn 

dau  wr  hwnt  fai  blodeu  rhos     ....  ni 

yn  ei  faddeu  nef  iddyn 

97  Yr  wynebwr  yu  abad     ....  n 
poetri  r  beirdd  poet  hir  y  bo 

99  Cowydd  i  Jeuan  ap  Robert  ap  Mredydd  tad  Mred:  ap 
Jeuan  ap  Robert  o  Wedir 
Y  barr  vcliel  heb  rychor     ....  o 

etto  del  i  ti  dalaith 

101   Cowydd  i  Howel  ap  Siancyn  o  Ynys  y  maen  gwyn 

Howel  enaid  hil  Einion     ....  p 

pettai  'r  byd  poed  hir  y  bo 

103   Cowydd  i  dudur  Fychan  ab  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  gr:  derwas/ 

liwyth  Ynyr  ai  wyr  oi  ol     .     .     .     .  q 

cawn  d'euro  cenau  derwas 

*  Attributed  also  to  Ehys  Gooh  ab  Dafydd  according  to  a  marginal  note. 


D.  nanmor's  poetry.  123 


104  Cowydd  i  3  mab  Sion  ah  Mredydd  o  Efionydd 
Tir  a  adwyd  rhwng  tridyn     .... 
tidau  aur  at  y  dewrion* 

lOG   Cowydd  i  Edw:  Pilstwn  or  K,ai./ 

Edwart  gryfach  i  adain     .... 
ac  ystryd  ac  ecstio  aur 


Odleu  a  Chywydeu  by  David  Nanmok. 

103       Pann  roddai  pob  rhai  nid  Ehys  a  ballaif  (1.  51)     .     .     .    c 
o  bu  fab  i  wraig  na  bwyf  fi  heb  Hys./ 
6.  Maricnad  Rys  ap  Mredydd  arg:  y  Tywyn 

Gwae  fi  om  geni'r  awr  ym  ganed     ....  d 

gwae  fi  yleni  flined  i  golli — some  II.  wanting. 

Ill    Cowydd  i  donnas  ap  Rhys  o  dywyn 

Y  cenau  'n  dwyn  canwayw  dur     ....  e 
elych  mor  hen  Walchmai  Rhys 

113  Marwnad  Tomas  Arglwydd  y  Tywyn 

Duw  mawr  nef  a  Ilawr  ef  an  lias     ....  f 

truan  fu  y  lief  trwy  nef  a  Ilawr 

116  Aivdl  i  dd:  ap  Tomas  ap  dd: 

Braich  lir  Brychan  |  briw'r  iairll  bwrw  ran     ....        g 

Bwrivvch  ynnau       wyr  Brecheiniog 
119       Blin  yw  hyder  o  weryd     ....  h 

bun  fwyn  a  vvnel  Beuno'n  fyw./ 

121    Cowydd  i  dd:  ap  JeuMi  ap  Enion 

Y  blaenaf  o  Isobl  Wynedd     ....  i 
o  Wynedd  am  annedd  mwy./ 

Y  gwr  vchel  i  grechwen     ....  k 
pe  bai  Eys  pawb  ar  i  ol 

124       Gwedi  ym  gau  am  gerddau  gwen     ....  / 

a  del  i  Rys  dalu  'r  iawn. 

127    Cowydd  i  Abad  Ystrad  Whir 

Y  ty  o  Ian  Tywi  las     ...     .  in 
bedwar  oed  yr  abad  Rys 

130-40  Blank 

141  Yr  eglurbaen  ar  glaerbais     ....  n 
a  dwg  wen  o  dy  i  gvvr 

142  Y  cae  bedw  :  Eirchiad  wyf  archiad  Ofydd o 

yn  arwydd  at  Wenn  or  ddol  Attributed  also  to  T.  Akd 

144  Cowydd  i  loalli  TLio  Rhydderch 

ILio  eurwallt  Haw  arian     .     ,     ,     .  p 

farw  ILio  fri  alien  wallt 

145  Os  heddyw  ym  diswyddir     ....  q 
nes  cael  y  ddyn  eiirwisg  honn./ 

146  Gwn  y  cywydd  a  ganaf    ....  »« 
■    vn  awr  dda  ar  Wenn  or  ddol 

*  Attributed  also  to  "  Hywel  ap  Reinallt." — E.  M. 

t  This  and  the  following  fire  lines  form  the    end  of  the  poem  beginning  on 
p.  171.     See  footnote  at  the  end  of  this  MS. 


124  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   136. 

148  Awdl  i  Jaspar  iarll  Penfro 

Eddewid  a  gaiff-  or.  ddayar  a  mor     ....  a 

darogaiiwr  /  i  dir  Gwynedd  / 
151       Mwrog  mawr  wyrthiog  a  roes  yn  Hani     ....  b 

ac  yn  ymmerawdr  y  gwna  Mwrog./* 

154  f  Rys  or  Towyn  ;  Khys  orau  'nhir  Js  Aeron     ....        e 

i  Eys  faint  a  roes  o  fwyd./ 

155  f  dd  llwyd  ap  dd  ap  Rhydderch  o  Ogerddan 

Hawddamawr  blaenazor  y  blaid     ....  d 

a  Haw  dduw  rhag  Had  i  wyr./ 
158       ILoegi-  gron  yd  Aeron  llyna  daith     ....  e 

traaul  fawr  twr  a  chawr  tir  Vwcli  Aeron 

J  Rys  o  dywyn 
160       ILys  dywyn  iarlles  deau     ....  f 

cedwid  duw  ceidwad  Tywyn 

162       Ynghamlan  or  Brutaniaid     ....  ff 

yrru  'r  tywod  or  Tywynn./ 

164       Anodd  bod  hebod  yn  ynys  Dywyn     ....  h 

na  bo  deheubarth  uar  byd  hebod 

167       Genau'r  glyn  Tywyn  minteioedd  a  droes     ....  i 

hyd  yr  aeth  i  glod  o  draeth  y  glynn 

169       Rhys  wyd  flodeuyn  rhos  haf    ....  k 

y  del  mis  a  hoedl  Moesen 

171       Rhys  or  Fel  ynys  flaenawr  y  Sirwern     ....  I 

pan  oedai  pob  rliai  fe  roddai  Rys  (1.  50) 

O  bu/t 


JdS.  143.  -^  Composite  Manuscript  from  the  "  Gloddaeth  Library," 
consisting  of  Poetry  and  Beut  y  Tywyssogton  :  Paper;  llf  X  7^ 
inches ;  328  page's ;  well  bound ;  xvith  century.  A  few  leaves  are 
imperfect  at  beginning  and  end,  and  the  corners  dog-eared.  Page  3  hsis 
"21,"  and  the  part  containing  the  Brut  is  numbered  "44"  (p.  35). 
The  following  names  occur  *  Myfi  Dauydd  Rhys- Gwmrigwr  (p.  1); 
Hie  liber  est  mens  Johanes  Jones  (p.  43)  ;  Thomas  Proland  (p.  79) ;. 
John  Parry  (p.  101)  ;  John  Dauid  vel  ^eu:  dd:  apWm:  ap  Rees,  person 
(p.  213)  ;  John  Phillipp  is  my  name,  &c.  (p.  263) ;  and  Dd.  Mathew, 
A.D'ni  1573  in  a  hand  apparently  slightly  later  than  the  MS. 

1  ,  gwyn  ywn  tir  nis  gwelir  fanwylyd  &c.  Anrni    m 
b.      Various  scribblings — this  leaf  is  very  imperfect. 

2  Lewis  mab  o  Lys  yonedd ». 

Lain  Lan  beniaith  o  lin  bonedd.  Anon 

b,  InventarMim  bonortt»i  gr:  ap  moris  de  Kilredyn  Aei[uncti~\ 
In  primis  iii   tyne  vi   yeres  old  &c. 

c.  Pedwar  pwyth  anwar  mewn  pylhcwnos  &c.  o- 

*  Attributed  to  "  Tudyr  Aled  in  one  MS." — E.  M. 

t  The  catchwords  should  be  "Pann  roddai  pob  rhai  " — see  p.  109.  Apparently 
pp.  141-72  should  follow  p.  108,  and  pp.  109-40  should  come  after  p.  172  j  the 
blank  leaves  (pp.  130-40)  would  thus  come  naturally  at  the  end  of  the  MS. 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   143.  125 

3       Oer  oedd  weled  jrddonen    .... 

A  chadw  ffraink  iecliyd  y w  fEriw  Gytto  r  glynn     a 

5  &  6  A  fragment  of  a  leaf — Heraldic,  beginning  with  Brutus. 

7  A  description  'of  the  arms  of  Tudur  Trefor,  Madoc  or  hendwr, 
Bleddyn  ap  kynfyn,  Bleddyn  ap  maynerc/t,  Bruclian  brccheiniog, 
Edward  III.,  W"  Vychan  o  wynedd,  Dauid  ap  Kynan,  Dewi  ap  Sank, 
Teilo  escob,  Elian  keimat,  Ylltyd  varchog,  Hwfa  ap  kynddelw,  llowarc/t 
ap  bran,  Sarddyi-,  Edynowain  bendew,  Eydid  flaidd  o  benllynn 

8  [Py]lstwnn  o  faylor,  Hwfa  ap  ^eyrr,  Kilenin  o  bowys,  ll'n  ap 
ynyr,  Brocliwel  ysgithroc,  Symon  ap  ^euau,  Ynyr  o  nannay,  Gr:  ap 
Jenkyn,  Elystan  glodrudd,  Kadwgan  ap  elystan,  Syr  thomas  klandwy, 

moreiddic  warwyn,  Krhdog  vreichfras,  Einion  ap  Kollwyn, 

9  Jenkin  ap  11  'n  ap  gwillim,  Gwalchmai,  y  Kyffinied,  ]festya  ap 
gwrgan,  Arg:  y  Towyn,  Kydyfor  ap  Selef,  S""  Gr:  Uoyd,  Barwn 
Koedmor,  Vrien  Eeged,  Gr:  Elidr,  Gwaithfoed  o  gredigion,  llowdden, 
Bledri,  Brenin  maroc,  E.  ap  tewdwr,  Ow:  Gwynedd,  Bleddyn  ap 
liynfyn,  Gwion  benarw,  Aeddan  o  Went 

lP-11  ....  Kings  of  foreign  countries 

12  English  Dukes, 

13  Wygmor,  gwerudd  ap  E.  gocA,  JMaelog  Krwm,  hwfa  ap  Kynddelw, 
llowarcA  ap  bran,  Mr  Eich:  Buckley,  stradlinge,  y  mathyaid,  arg:  y 
koytty,  y  Eaglans,  y  Perots,  y  Woganes, 

14  John  ep  E.  ap  ^enkyn  o  Lynn  nedd. 

b.  Bellach  y  mae  traythy  am  Labelay  [labels]  mewn  arfay,  y  Ehai  a 
Roddir  ir  brodur  ^angaf,  yw  dwyn  yn  ddiffrens,  ac  yn  amrafaei, 
Eyngtbyu  ar  etifeddion  yr  rhain  Sudd  yn  dwyn  arfay  kufan. 

15  Kowydd  i  Sir  Roger  mortymer 

iiyr  Eosser  assur  oessawr     ....  b 

bobol  wlstel  bob  ail  ystod  lolo  Goch 

17  Dieythr  hayl  wen  es  ennyd     ....  c 
Duw  nichair  bywyd Jen:  duy  \_ap\  dd:  ap  ow: 

18  #  *  *  *  *  llyn  ai  Uiw  *****  d 
dyn  fain  dlos  dan  fanadl  Jt/                                 Robin  ddy 

19  Diidd  daed  vy  rhiain  veinwen     ....  e 
a  nef  ith  enaid  yn  ol                                          ?  Hari  Ho'll 

b.       Myrddin  wyllt  am  Euw  ddyn  wyf     ....  f 

Myrddin  aeth  mawr  ddawn  i  wedd 
mewn  gwydur  ar  mwyn  i  gydwedd 
nid  aeth  oedd  adwyth  iddi 
y  drws  oi  hoi  a  droes  hi     ...     . 
ai  chael  o  fodd  i  chalon  Jeuan  Dyfi 

21       Y  vedwen  las  anfad  wallt     ....  g 

ai  krinaw  draw  yn  y  dref  gr:  ap  Adda 

[?  Y  ddyn]  ar  Santaidd  anwyd     ....  h 

dan  go  an-  dyno-  ni-  yn  day  Guttyn  Owain 

23    JLyma  •  r  '  ymddiddan    a    elwir  JLiuhu[ Jovudd :      Vy 

■mynnychawl,  giiredic  eurfercA  vyngorchymyn  attoch  vn  Bennes,  gariad- 
sercA,  Bletheiiraid  dal  gwnlliw,  leddef  lasdrem,  weddusdrwyn,  wefusber, 

Barablddoeth  anadl,  llathar  ireiddwyn  vwnwgl ends:  ar  gwyr 

iir  meibion  oil  yn  scrifenyddion  ni  fiyrhaent  hwy  vuth  J  draytby  eich 
Ehinwedday  da  chwi ,/      Trigiwch  yn  ]fach  o  duw  ych  kadw.    Amen. 


126  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   143. 

24  Doe  gwelais  kerais  pei  kaid     ....  i 
da  i  trie  aur  aV  benfric  byn 

Jeuan  ap  Rudderch  ap  Jeuan  lloyd 

25  Kefais  aiirreg  vawrdeg  vodd     .... 

am  Sioned  vened  mae  n  f  wy  John  wynn 

23       Bwries  om  dyfal  galoiin     .... 

gnawd  wenna  vaerch  gauiiaid  mon  „      „ 

30       Tristac/j  yw  kymry  trostyn  {also  p.  203).  i 

tref  a  gwlad  am  ytto  r  glynn     .... 
yn  naill  ai  i  dduw  ai  yu  Haw  ddiawl  IL'en  ap  guttyn 

32       Mae  lief  oer  mae  llifeirieint     .... 

i  fon  i  try  fenaid  traw  {also  p.  205)  Gutto  r  glynn 

Brut  r  Tywyhsogion  :  the  text  is  imperfect  in  several  places 
as  well  as  at  both  ends.  It  is  also  defective  for  the  years  900-949, 
ii  fact  which  points  to  its  being  a  copy,  immediate  or  remote,  of 
Peniarth  MS.  20=HeDgwrt  MS.  51.  The  following  extracts  will  help 
to  illustrate  the  changes  from  the  older  text  of  Mostyn  MS.  116,  of 
which  the  Red  Book  Text  of  the  Bruts  is  a  copy.  Compare  also 
Mostyn  MS.  159,  fols.  144-231. 

35  *  #  #  #  *||  twssog  abergelav  /  60  mlynedd  ac  wyth  cant  oedd 
oed  krift,  pann  vy  varw  mael  Salacharn  o  f  werddon,  dwy  vlynedd 
gwedi  kynny  i  by  kad  gweithen,  i  gwrthladdwyd  kadweithen,  dwy 
vlynedd  gwedi  hynny  i  difPeithiodd  honno  y  glyuuyssic 

Blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  i  by  varw  kynan  nawdd  nifer,  Blwyddyn 
wedi  hynny  i  difPeithiodd  kaer  ef roc,  f  gann  gadvgynt  /  3  /  blynedd 
gwedi  hynny  i  by  gad  brynn  onnen  &c.  (cf.  Bruts,  p.  259). 

36  (1.  18)  Blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  i  by  varw  aldrud  vrenin  eyaa. 
Fann  oedd  oed   krift  900  mlynedd  i  by  vrwydyr  meibion  ^dwal, 

a  40*  a  naw  cant  oedd  ioed  pann  losced  dvfed  ddwywaith,  ^  gann 
veibion  ^dwal,  ^aco  a  ]feuan  meibion  ^dwal  voel  ap  anarawd  ap 
Eodri  mawr,  ag  y  lladdwyd  gan  y  kenedloedd  dwnwallon  Blwyddyn 
wedi  hynny  i  by  varw  Rodri  vab  ho'll  dda 

Blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  i  by  Uaddfa  vawr  ]f  rwng  meibion  ^dwal  voel 
ap  anarawd  a  meibion  ho'll  dda  ap  kadell,  yn  y  lie  a  elwir  gwrgyssu 
gwarth  \_sic\  konwy,  He  ^  lias  anara[wd]  ap  gwiriad  ap  Rodri  Ac  i 
diffeithiodd  meibion  ^dwal  geredigion  &c.  (cf.  Bruts,  p.  2G1). 

115  Blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  [1154]  i  by  varw  Mcred:  ap  gruff  ap 
'Rys  ap  Tewdwr  /  arglwydd  Karedigiawn  ac  ystrad  tywi  a  dufed  /  gwr 
mawr  i  gydernid  ai  drugaredd  ai  gyfiawnder  /  yu  xxx  vlwyddyn  oi 
ocd/yn  y  vlwyddyn  honno  i  by  varw  Roesser  farU  henffordd/yn  y 
flwyddyn  honno  i  by  varw  Seffre  escob  llandaf  (cf.  Bruts,  p.  318, 
and  Mostyn  MS.  116,  p.  11 4o— Catalogue,  p.  60, 1.  23)     .     .     . 

178  ends:  Blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  ir  aeth  y  kardinal  a  legat  y  pab 
ymaith  o  loeger/ ac  ef  ai  'delis  rfredric  amerawdr  ef  wedi  hynny  a 
dirvawr  amylder  gid  ac  ef  o  archescub  /  ac  escub  /  ac  abaday  a  gwyr 
ereill  echwyssic  /  a  Uawer  o  achos  y  Riifel  a  oedd||  ****** 


179      Ed  wart  ai  wyr"  ai  drwyr  tan    ....  / 

chwant  tad  ychen  coch  teg  llowdden 

181  '    Ewch  feirdd  o  ddinbych  i  fon      .     ,     .     ,  g 

lloi  gant  vn  lliw  ag  yntay  Deio  ap  jfeuan  duy 

*  Note  that  the  text  is  defective  here  for  the  years  901-49,  "  40  "  being  a  scribal 
error  for  "  50."  In  the  margin  "  950  "  is  accurately  given  in  the  same  hand  as  the 
text. 


MOSTYN  MANUSCBIPT   143  127 

183      Y  lloer  wenn  Uiw  eira  ynncra    «...  a 

achael  nef  dyn  wclilan  wyd  leuaii  tew  bri/dydd 

185       ^euan  fawl  winllan  wenllwyd     .     ,     ,     .  b 

a  duw  fadday  dy  feddwl  Master  harrije 

187       Y  vyn  ddoyliw  od  ar  vaes     ....  e 

moes  drwy  liyrr  ir  meistir  harri  Jeuan  tew  hrijdydd 

190       Y  gwr  oydranvs  a  gredir     ....  d 

nag  aed  y  mi  ac  yd  mwy  Master  harri 

192       Master  nis  amay  estrawii     ....  e 

e  gust  aur  yt  gwas  dewr  wyf  Jeuan  tew  brydydd 

195       Tafarnwr  wjtI  wr  lie  taria     dynioa     ....  f 

tirion  wynn  dduw  ai  tro  n  dda  Dd:  Beintiwr 

197       Kvydwst  am  orfod  kredy     ,     ,     .     ,  cf 

Etto  i  yfed  tiofal.  Griff:  ap  Jeuan 

199       GrufEydd  y  wenydd  iawnwych     ....  It 

dilid  y  modd  yu  dlawd  mwy  Dd:  beintiwr 

201       Y  ddyn  ar  santaidd  anwyd     ■     .     ,     .  I 

danu  go  an  dyno  ni .  n  .  day  Y  Gyttynn  owen 

203       Tristach  yw  kymry  trostynn  &c.     {see  p.  30)  Je 

205       Mae  Uef  oer  raae  llifeirient  &c.     {see  p.  32)  I 

207  Marwnad  gruff:  lloyd  dd:  ap  einon 

Ychel  yr  wyf  ynn  ochain     ....  nt 

enaid  gruff:  Uwyd  yno  Rys  yo'i  or  yri 

210       Pam  ym  kaen  heb  y  wenydd     ....  » 

dy  nod  par  ym  glod  gann  gler  IL'n  moel  y  pantri 

213       ILew  brwydr  vail  Haw  bredyr     ....  o 

diried  o  wr  dyred  ir  Ja,wn  2?ys  c/och  or  yri 

216       Rhos  dy  liw  Rhus  deluaidd     ....  p 

a  gwynedd  vyiigogany  IL' en  ap  moel  pantri 

218       Dewrddrud  lleiceZyn  dayar  ddraig     ....  q 

awch  ymrwydr  a  chymrodedd  R.  go}  or  yri 

222       Y  dday  gawr  wych  dda  i  gwraidd     ....  r 

day  kan  oes  ai  duko  n  vn  Jerwerlh  vynglwyd 

224  Maer  gwr  lien  llawn  y  wenydd     ....  s 
vilwr  hofF  i  volir  haf  (1.  8)     {rest  lost) 

225  Os  mon  yw  ynys  y  7nel     ....  t 
ywch  ywch  i  del  i  chwi  ych  day                    John  brioynoh 

228  Adda  noe  abraham  oedd  yddy  ofsoedd     ....  u 
vy  noe  klay  oer  klod                   Harri  ap  rres  ap  g\j/]ttun 

h.     ffynon  or  eigion  a  roes  y  brenin  &c.  Anon     v 

229  Y  Sir  oil  a  vessura  to 
o  deifi  hud  ddM  ydda     .... 

■  Rhai  dibwyll  ai  RhMubia 
na  chenyd  dim  ond  o  chwant  da     ...     , 
lie  r  maker  pob  yderyn 
yno  i  trig  vn  natur  yn    ,     ,     .     . 
ar  i  hyder  i  Rhodiaf  Deio  ap  Jeuan  duy 

231  Englynion  o  goronicles  y  brenliinoedd 

William  ail  wylliam  eilwaith     .     .     .     -,  x 

Elizabeth  dawn  kufiawn  y  kas  Rees  ap  Harry 


128  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   143. 

232  Pob  gwledd  pob-amiedd  pob  awr  &c,  1        Jeuan  gr:  ap      a 
b.      Mi  all  mab  orddercli  Serch  Som  &c.  J    feuan  ll'n  ychan  b 

233  Mar:  Syr  Owen:  Trwm  ar  ia  yw  tramwyr  od     .     .     .  c 

y  trie  addusg  tragwyddawl  Wylliam  llyn 

235       May  gwr  lien  llawn  awenydd     ....  d 

hefyd  vo  a  yn  hafog  Signature  cut  off  by  binder 

238  Rag  lien  mwy'n  Rhaid  ym  gwynaw     ....  e 
Ar  y  kynta  rekanio                                            fohn  y  koytty 

239  Ueihav  mae  chivarav  an'chweryd  &c.      Dd:  Mathew  13~i3    f 

240  Dis  ywr  byd  os  arbedwnn     ....  g 
ar  dda  mwy  ond  ar  dduw  mawr                        fohn  Tudyr 

242  Y  drindod  heb  djlodi     ....  h 
yn  dwyn  oil  bob  dyii  i*  nef                          Dd:  ap  Gwill'tm 

243  Nid  bwrdiaw  o_  daw  ^nn  dydd     ....  i 
a  fydd  ir  neb  a  feddwo                                  Lewys  y  glynn 

245  f  M'  powell  o  ben  yr  allt 

Y  gwr  kuflon  ilagoray     ....  k 

evrdid  von  ar  dy  waed  vych  Hugh  Arwyitle 

248       Pond  hir  na  welir  ond  nos  I 

pei  byrr  hir  yw  pob  aros     .... 
o  bydd  vyth  wrth  eich  boddio  Jer:  vynglwyd 

250       Arwydd  pellyriigrwydd"  parch     ....  m 

Rroed  yntay  y  niinay  march         Ch:  ap  Jeu:  ll'n  vychan 

252  ffynnon  wych  ynion  yw  chynnig  &c.     Morys  Mowddwy     n 

b.  gay  veddwl  dwbwl  yn  dwyn  &c.                       Datiid  Wen  o 

c.  Kuriais  och  briwiais  awch  bronn  &c.  „       „  p 

d.  ffarwel  fFriw  dtiwfel  ffrwd  ewyn  y  dwr  &c.  Anon  q 

e.  or  nef  y  doythom  ynn   noeth  &c.  r 

f.  mai  hi  nawr  yn  awr  o  nos   &c.  „  s 

g.  ffarwelied  Rhwyddied  r  ha  &c.  S  *  *  t 

253  Englynion  ir  Eos 

a.  Kerddgar  dlos  eyos  yw  sail  tivr  kedwyn  &c.       W.  Ihjn  u 

h.  Blaengar  swn  lilayar  klowais  &c.  H.  llyn  v 

c.  Eyos  braint  koed  naiat  kayadnerth  &c  W.  llyn  w 

d.  Eiliad  miwl  ga.niad  mel  gwenyn  &c.  If.  llyn  x 

e.  Kufaniad  ganiad  gloyw  gynnar  &c.  W.  Kynwal  y 

f.  Kail  bynkay  .  n  .  amlhay  ymhlith  pebyllgoed  &c.    „     „  s 

254  Gwaer  vn  dyn  heb  ■^owir-  yndab aa 

o  gary  mab  yn  gywir  mwy  Ann  gwynn 

255  Kwrs  anoetJi  kuriais      ennyd     ....  bb 
keisio  mwy  end  kasay^  merch                               Sion  Tydjr 

257      Doeth  yw  r  mab  yspriid  a  thad     ....  cc 

gwledd  i  mab  arglwydd  John  y  Kent 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   143.  129 

Cr-wTSEU  AG  Englynion  by  Syr  David  lloyd. 

259       Tydi  r  pwrs  ssas  Suddan  ddruch „ 

mynd  dai  Iwyd  mewn  tylodi 
262       Dauid  ail  ^euan  dyvi £ 

arnynt  hwy  ny  bydd  mwy  meth 

264  (agor  dy  dy  gwcnno  wych  &c.  Jno:  David')       c 

265  Kresso  ddyn  koeg  oylyn  (JocA d 

baw  etto  yd  buw  wyt  di 

266  Mae  Sion  ddiofon  ddifeth  wr  graddol     ...  e 
ocb  wr  y  dwckwr  y  dwyn 

267  Yngwynedd  mae  ti  yweddi  f 
ar  gam  y  mae  i  mam   a  mi     ...     . 

haint  anynarl  ywch  adwy 

hoU  [sic]  diawl  el  a  hwy  yll  dwy 

269       Y  vyn  ddiwg  vwnwgl  wenn     ....  o 

a  dodrenn  ond  dyfod  adrey 

271       Y  gwr  tawel  Aenelfawr     ....  h 

ond  addoyth  venaid  i  ddiiw 

274       Y  verch  o  strud  y  varchnad     ....  { 

eisier  bwyd  os  arbedy 

276  Y  vyn  vauol  ganolfain     ....  k 
olugon  tinwnioa  teg  ||    (1.  10 — end  wanting) 

277  Gwael  wyf  a  fErudd  ystyddiay     ....  I 
mab  beli  hael  heb  law  hynn 


Cywydeu  etc.  by  Me.  Griffith  Davydd  dfy. 

279       Galw  am  wr  gwiliaw  moroedd     ....  m 

dal  pwyth  i  daly  happ  oedd 
281         (Y  Hew  gwycA  yau  Uanw  gwin  &o .  Anon.)         n 

b.      Kof  am  vicker  He  ych  kerir     ....  o 

eythur  Rhoi  ym  hewythr  hwnn 

283       Y  vyn  brud  ychel  ryddlom     ....  p 

dann  i  threm  dyn  ni  tbramwy 

285       Diiw  a  ennyno  dan  ennyd  « 

dull  y  beirdd- dywylly  byd 
Amey  dydd  y  mae  deyddeg 
am  nad  gwenn   Rhud  ychen  deg     .     .     .     . 
ond  diiw  Lwyd  yntay  ni  lydd 
i  dyrnas  nef  y  dewr  nydd 

287       Y  Hew  gwine  Haw  gynnil  }• 

Wbwelyn  ynn  ymovyn  mil     .... 
llin  gviffith  o  deyrnydd  dad     .... 
or  daw  eilwaith  i  dialwn 

289       A  geisio  bentbig  negessay     dusged     ....  * 

y  neges  ai  mynagai 


290       Cum  capud  egrotat  totum  corpus  male  valebat  &c.   R.  H.  t 

b.      When  that  of  Bodie  the  uper  paj-t,  with  sicknes  for  is       v 
prest  &c.  R.  H. 

e     87130.  I 


130  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   143. 

291       Gwae  ni  r  beirdd  gann  air  y  byd     ....  a 

mwy  0  aur  siwrl  ymhwrs  sion  John  tydr 

294  Bustl  y  byd :  Agor  nef  wrth  lef  araith  lafar  dyn  .     .     .        b 

knockiwn  ne  gyrwn  fo  agorii*  John  tydr 

297       Mail-  yw  n  hyder  Rhac  perigl     ....  c 

ir  nef  telir  kerdd  ni  chelir 

ynn  lie  gwelir  ynn  lliw  golayf  Jeu:ap  Rydd-^  ap  jfeu:  lloyd 

300  Ni  allaf  nid  af  o  day     ....  .    .     ^ 

plwm  oer  i  glog  pie  maer  glaw  Dd:  ap  Gwillim 

301  Dudd  da  ir  vwyna  r  a  vy     .     .     .     .  e 
dros  y  bod  deiroes  eb  wr           Gr:  ap  Jeuan  Wen  vychan 

303       Dyn  traws  vyra  ynn  dwynn  tros  vor     ....  / 

aur  i  gwisg  y  Ea  i  gusgy  Gytto  .  r .  Glynn 

305  Tri  mab  vy  i  Eodri  mewn  tremynt  i  keyd     ....        g 
eisoys  oedd  oedran  ^esii  Anon 

306  Nid  lies  ir  voawes  aQr  vaneg  golud  &c.  dd:  Wen  h 

b.  ILyma  enway  plant  yr  arg:  Hys  ap  tewdwr  : — Griff:  SfC. 

308  llytna  Etifeddion  yr  arg:  R.  ap  tewdwr  a  gariad  wragedd : 
Maelgwn  vawr  .  .  Morgan  ap  Hys  .  .  Kadwaladv  Lwgwr  y  maes  .  . 
Howell  sais  .  .  arg:  kastell  gwia  a  thalagharn  a  Sain  Kler  &c. 

.309  Plant  Howell  sais  ap  yr  arg:  Hys  : — Kynan  Ac. 

310  Merched  yr  Arg:  Eys  o  gariad  wragedd  : — Tangwystl  &c. 
b.  ILyma  gyneddfay  ag  anian  dyddiay  r  lloer :  Y  dydd  kynta 
or  Ueyad  &c.     ends  with — y  xxv  dydd  y  doeth  y  diale  ir  aipht  .... 
OS  mercA,  kref  a  braisk  vydd  ynn  ifank. 

Probably  one  or  more  leaves  of  the  MS.  are  wanting  between  pp.  3]  6  and  317. 

317  II  ni  cheisies  end  y  chwesaeth     ....  i 

a  Dilw  eilchwaith  ai  diolcho  Thomas  derllysk 

b.      Teyrn  gwyr  ystrad  tovvi     ....  k 

o  gwn  ney  veirch  genny  vi  Bedo  Phillip 

318  Y  vyn  ara  vain  wryd     ....  I 
byn  er  duw  o  beuyd  oer                               Howell  ap  Sion 

319  tlleS .  roS  .  ryS  .  lad  .  rwd.  rwg  .  rwt .  &c.  m 

b.  Kyrnig  Uym  trychig  11am  trwch,  ysgerigl  &c.  « 

c.  ffeingrair  weun  esgair  wisgi  trvvy  gamyn  &c.  o 

d.  ginryk  myll  gichyrt  mall  chwrlgireg  sy  &c.  p 

320  [Y  k]arw  gwych  or  kayray  gwin     ....  q 
dros  ygwun  dair  oes  y  gwyr                             William  llyn 

321  Amal  gwm  y  vrenhinedd     ....  r 
sion  ap  Hys  oni  vo  prin                               Hugh  kae  llwyd 

b.  ILio  eurwallt  lliw  arian  &c.  s 

c.  (Rhoi  /  i  /  chred  trwy  fed  ddifawd  &c.)  t 

d.  (Ehoddi  /  i  /  fryd  /  n  /  hyfryd  boywfr  &c.)  « 

e.  (Syr  sion  wyrion  ymys  weryn)  &c.  v 

*  Middle  imperfect.     Also  on  page  418  below. 

■}  Space  for  six  additional  lines  left  above  signature,  but  see  MS.  145,  p.  35, 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT    143.  131 

322  Y  ddoy  wr  aiglwyddiaidd     ....  a 
y  gadw  aylwyd  gydwaladr                                dauid  nanmor 

323  Maen  Rin  geiriay  r  hen  gyrys     ....  b 
Eof  yt  bwyth  golwyth  y  gof                          3Ioris  ap  Wen 

b,  Marwnad  sion  eos 

Drwg  i  neb  a  drigio  ynn  ol     .     .     .     .  c 

Oes  ynn  dyw  i  Sion  eos  dauid  ap  emwnt 

325       Sion  eos  ynn  vnnos  a  wnaeth  d 

gany  i  gannyn  ddwyn  hiraeth 
ag  3'n  ol  i  varwolaeth 
i  gany  i  dduw  gwynn  i  ddaeth  ?  dd:  ap  emwnt 

326-28  A  great  variety  of  scribblings. 

327  Arglwydd  vrenin  nef  a  Uawr  &c.  e 

328  Kannaid  ag  enaid  i  gwr  yw  meinir  &c.  (p.  328)  / 

b.  kangwaith  i  byra  mewn  kyngyd  &c.  g 

c.  Doybeth  ni  vedres  gael  diben  arnynt  &c.  h 


MS.  144.  The  Red  Book  of  Nanney  from  the  Cors-y-Gedol 
Library  :  Y  ILyfr  Coch  0  Nannau  a  gaeadwyd  yn  Nhre  Ddulun  yn 
fiwyddyn  / 138  dros  Lewis  Morris ;  A  thrachefn  Ynghaerlleon  dros 
Edw.  Parry. 

PoETEY  : — Paper  ;  10^  X  6f  inches  ;  896  pages ;  second  quarter  of 
the  xviith  century ;  strongly  bound  in  red  leather.  Written  apparently 
by  one  hand  ;  later  additions  are  enclosed  in  brackets  (  ).  The  contents 
are  almost  entirely  poetical,  but  there  is  a  treatise  on  poetical  com- 
position by  William  Middleton  (pp.  274-302)  and  on  Welsh  metres  by 
John  Phillipp  (pp.  303-13).     This  MS.  has  sufTered  much  from  damp. 

"This  book  was  presented  to  Griffith  Vaughan  Esq.  The  10">  of  7*" 
[16]78  by  his  humble  Servant  Henry  Williams  of  Hendre  Vechau  " 
(p.  332).  "  Griffith  Vauchan  of  Corsygedol,  Esq.  is  the  true  owner  of 
this  booke  the  7">  of  October  1683  ....  In  wittnesse  whereof  I  Henry 
Williams  put  my  hand  this  day  &  year  Above  written  "  (p.  443). 
•"  The  Book  of  Griffith  Vaughan  of  Corsygedol  Esq.  so  says  Jo"  Davies 
(p.  528).  The  following  names  are  written  on  the  margins:  John 
Simon  (p.  67,  &c.)  ;  Dauid  Samuel  (p.  103);  Ellis  Rowland  (p.  118)  ; 
Mary  Williams  (pp.  147  and  267,  400,  &c.) ;  Rees  Vaughan  (pp.  149  ; 
380)  ;  Katherine  Nanney  of  Nanney ;  Richard  ILoyd  donodynos  Hopod 
<p.  156)  ;  Ellis  Wyiin  (pp.  171  and  187) ;  thomas  (p.  380) ;  griffith 
Williams  (p.  391)  ;  Evan  Griffith  (p.  391)  ;  Richard  Davies  (p.  443) ; 
Mary  Winne  (p.  445) ;  Katherin  Hooker  (p.  485j ;  Henry  Garnons 
(p.  530). 

1-11  Title  page  and  table  of  contents  "  a  gynnullwyd  gennyf  fi  W™ 
Morris  o  Gaergybi  ym  Mon  .  Ebrill  1739 — ^Er  mwyn  yr  Anrhydeddus 
William  Vaughan  Esq"',  un  o  Seneddwyr  Prydain." 

13-14  Enwau'r  Beirdd  a  tcnaethont  y  Caniadau  yn  y  ILyfr  hwn : 
these  pages  as  well  as  1,  3-11,  and  40  are  in  the  hand  of  Lewis  Morris  ; 
while  2,  12,  15-39  are  blank. 

I  2 


132 


MOSTTN    MANUSCRIPT    144. 


John  Phillipp 


William,  llyn 


40  Mar:  Elisa  ah  Wiliam  JLwyd  o  Riw  waedawg,  1SS3. 

Braich  a  Haw  hylaw  haeledd  a  Dorrwyd*     .... 

Mil  banner  gwirier  i  gywiraw     .... 

A  thonwyd  oil  oil  i  throed  ai  Haw  John  Phillip 

41  Owdwl  Marwnad  Mr  Morriis  wy{n)  o  w.edir  (15§0) 

Ble  ir  aeth  yn  Uiniaeth  an  llywenydd 
ai  fywiol  Enaid  i  nef  Ivniaeth 

45  A  ddwedo  gelwydd  heb  weddio  diiw 

fford  ^  del  i  rodio 
O  dowyd  wir  dramir    dro 

gwilied  na  cheiS  i  goelio 
Then  follows  the  Paternoster  in  Greek. 

46  Moliant  Arglwydd  William  Esgob  llan  elwy 

Arglv.ydd  vchel  swydd  ywcb  law  saint     .... 

ior  gwleddwin  deidiav  Arglwydd  nodedig    John  Phillipp 

On  the  inside  margin  of  p.  49  is  written  :  Er  gwychder  gryfder  er 
gi-ym  a  mawredd  rhaid  y w  Marw  yu  gy flym  /  pan  ddel  angau  llwyhrau 
Uym  /  a  Uai  o  ohwedl  UvVch  ydym  /   Jo"  Davies. 

51   Marwnad  Mrs:    gwen   salbrif  or    berth  ddvf  gwraig  Mr: 

griiffuth  wyn  ap  John  wyn  15^1. 
Dwyn  Enaid  a  choi-fE  dwyn  anedd 
i  bii  wae  ninav  heb  vn  Enaid 
Gwae  henddyn  go  wydyn  oediawg") 
gwargiil  I 

gwir  gas  y  kywaethawg  ^' 

Gwae  pan  orffo  rhodio  r  hawg         | 

Ai  ben  gwyn  heb  vn  geiniawg  -J 
Y  gog  odidog  o  gerrdd     .... 
ir  karennydd  karonawg 
Dydd  da  ir  wylan  leyan  Iwyd 


55 


56 


John  phillip 

rhwyn    ai    kant.     j 
{Tom:  John  catti 
ai  canodd  i  John 
d'd  lloyd  hen.) 


Edward  ap  Rees 


57 


h 


rhwydd  di  drwch  heddwch  ir  hydd    Dd:  lloyd  IVn  ap  gr: 


Ivan  dyfi 
Robin  ddv 
Davyd  gorllech 


Harri  hian 


59  Drogan  :  Pessawl  blwyddyn  sii  /n/  pwyssaw 

vn  ddim  end  ymynedd  ddyw 
61  Drogan  :  Byd  angall  pey  dyallwn     ....  k 

vn  o  hil  yn  wahelyth 
63  Drogan  :  Bryddwydion  beirdd  a  oedwyd 

Tragwyddol  ^  trig  iddaw 
65  Drogan:  Amav/r/  beirdd  J  .m&e  /  r  j  byd 

am  Ras  mwy  mor  ymrysson 

67   Cywydd  i  Owen  Glyn  Dwr 

(Kefais)  ILefais  er  na  fedrais  fiidr     ....  « 

dos  a  chymell  yr  ellmyn 

na  weinia  gledd  owain  glvn 

par  yn  pasg  o  dir  Magsen 

a  chwngwest  hors  hengest  hen   fev:  ap  Rheth^  ap  J.  llwyd 

70  Kowydd  jf  ferch  anwadal 

Ehyfedd  iawn  rhiw  fodd  annerch     ....  o 

drivy  gyflfes  draw  a  gafEer  davidd  ap  leii&n  ap  Owen 

f  1   (^Englyn  pan  oeddyd  yn  dechre  bildio  Twr  Nannau 

Dechreuad  Adeilad  ar  dir  Nannau  &c.)  p 

*  The  first  of  12  existing  lines  of  an  Awdl,  which  apparently  ends  on  the  next 
page.  The  MS.  must  be  imperfect  here,  for  the  next  Awdl  on  page  41  is  numbered 
"  20  "  in  the  same  ink  as  the  text. 


THE   RED   BOOK   OF   NANNEY.  133 

V2       Y  dyn  a  ddwetto  air  dy  chwerw  anoeth  &c.  Anon  a 

b.  Kyioydd  i  wraig  gwr  priod 

mae  havl  ag  fel  dyma  hi     ...     .  b 

fvn  ganaid  fwy  uag  vnwaith  Dauid  ijorlleck 

75  Mar:  syr  tho:  goch  cyn  i  farw  J  ofyn  J  ddillad  ai  farcli 

ffres  ^  kawn  hofP  ras  kenych     ....  c 

lie  brav  i  fynd  llwybr  y  fendith  John  Tudur 

There   are  ten  Hues  on  margin  of   75  :    (llyma  i  ddechie  : 

Y  gwr  vrddol  geirwirddysg  &c.) :   also  an  Englyn  signed  G.  P. 
(Or  Hienctyd  fowyd  yu  fuan  daethim  &c.). 

79  MoUant  M'   thomas  prys  o  bias  iolyn 

Y  Hew  Jfanck  gallvawg     ....  d 
hvdd  Tal  ben  mawredd  Tylwyth             William  Kynwall 

82  Kowydd  J  ateb  Rhvs  wyn  or  giler 

Ehyfeddod  mewn  rhiw  foddion     ....  e 

hvn  y  sydd  o  fewn  y  sach  Thomas  Priis 

84  Kowydd  J  atteb  hwnnw  svjn  j  calyn 

Thomas  Prys  ddvrgrys  ddewrgry     ....  / 

Y  tv  yn  gwit  tan  y  garnn  Rys  Wynn 

88  Kowydd  J  ateb  hwnw  (largely  autobiographical) 

Treiglais  a  rhodiais  ar  hyd     ....  g 

ne  i  affaith  t&n  vfferu  Thomas  Prys 

89  (Os  bu  W"  gynt  yn  daer)  &c.  (8  II.  attributed  to  John  Davies).  h 

92  Kowydd  dychan  J  rvs  wyn 

Adda  hen  o  ddiiw  hanoedd     ....  i 

ith  ddydd  ni  cheif  fyth  heddwch  Hugh  Machno 

(Anherchaf  gyrraf  y  gan  afedrwy)  &c.,  in  margin,  signed  H.  P., 
and  on  the  bottom  half  of  the  page  :  (Time  doth  indeed  consume 
aw^y/  all  worldly  things  without  delay)  &c.,  and  (Dywaid  gwen  Seren 
er  Sirio  fy  mron  &c.,  by  Jo"  Davies). 

96  Kowydd  annerch  J  M"  Richard  pugh  persson  fv  yn  aros  yn 
Willssir  ag  i  ddymvno  arno  ddowad  vnwaeth  yw  wlad 
Mai  Hen  ymhell  o  wynedd     ....  k 

diiw  nef  ath  adawo/n/  iach  Richard  Phillipp 

99         (Dy  liw  a  gerais  dy  lyn,  dy  Enaid)  &c.  "  Jncerti  Authoris."    I 

(b.")       Time  cost  time  lost  time  lusty     I  was"!  „  ..l  ■  ■„         ui        "> 

'■■    ■'  r?.-         ij  V       /  "  this  was  wrtttenwith 

Time  did  weare  my  beauty  I  ^^^  wooden  pen" 

Time  passeth  away  hasty  f  r seen   1241 

Time  and  age  hath  tamed  me  J  i.=>cc  p.  i^t}- 

lUO  Kowydd  J  anfon  y  wennol  at  J  feistres 

Y  wennol  deg  annwyl  don     ....  n 

bryfsia  /n/  lion  ir  werddon  wyllt  Thomas  Prys 

103  Kefais  gan  I'erch  drasserch  drai     ....  o 
yn  ddidwyll  fyth  na  ddwedwn                               „           „ 

104  Moliant  Mr  Rvs  ap  Thomas  ag  yn  y  gwrthwyneb 

E  gwnaeth  y  fran  i  nvth  fry     ....  p 

bowyd  och  iaith  bid  ywch  chwech  jfexian  Deiclwyn 

105       (Ond  t6st  yw  i  mi  ganu  fEarwel  &c.  Jo'  d'd')    g 

106   Ymddiddan  y  mab  klaf  i  lowarch  hen 

Eira  mynvdd  hoff  yw  klod     ....  r 

gan  ddiofal  ber  yw  hirnos 


134  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    144. 

109  {Jr  Parchedig  Griffith  Vaughan  Esq.  1665 

mae   ^vor  hael  mwy-fwy  'rhydd     .     .     .     ,  a 

Ehadau  dawn  cyd  rhedo  dwr)  Edward  Moris 

110  Y  bardd  iowndrefn  bwrdd  windrayl     ....  b 
ihvs  vngwr  piys  dopp  y  rhod                   prUliam  Kynwall 

112  Kowydd  i  roif  [sic]  rhys  grythor 

Y  bardd  gwyn  ebrwydd  ganniad     ....  e 

i  gyd  i  ihof  gyda  rhys  John  Tiidur 

115  f  Rys  grythor:  Y  nevben  dyfyd  yn  ebol  &c.        Sion  tudur  d 
b.         (Digiodd  a  sorrodd  seren)  &c.     "  16§6."  e 

116  Kowydd  i  ofyn  Telyn  i  S'  W  grlyffydd'] 

Kariad  merched  am  kyriay  ....  f 

ni  wrdduw  oedd  waeth  na  ddoe  r/vn     Syr  Davydd  trefor 

119  JLyma  ddewis  bethav  gwr,  nid  amgen  nay  frenin  yn  gyflon,  ai 
arglwydd  yn  gadarn  &o ai  ddiiw  yn  drigarog. 

h.       Ond  gwagedd  rhyt'edd  wrid  rlios  &c.  RichwA.  PAilip  g 

0.         (Einiou  ag  Aron  oedd  ore  gint        "]     Lewhelin  ap    Meirick    Goch    k 
Ar  gyntedd  Dolgelle  I  heri)  who  "  dyed  almost 

Pwy  s' heiddiw  yn  dwyn  swydde   fa  KiO  years  before  wyr  Ifan  or 
Ar  draws  oad  wyr  Evan  or  dre    J  dre  was  born." 

120  TLyma  vychedd  y  gardod :  Saint  Awstin  a  ddowaid  am  y 
gardod  mae  peth  ardderchawg  yw  hi  a  gynorthwya  y  tlawd  &c.  .  .  . 
ends :  cvn  rheitied  iddo  wrthi  wedi  kaffo. 

121  To  the  parson  of  Edern  whose  service  tired  him  when  ill 

Syr  Sion  fawl  vnion  aflonydd  i  swn  i 

Dos  ymaith  danu  rybydd  &c.  gr:  lloyd 

b.  Englyn  ir  melinydd  siaradys 

Die  Morgan  syfrdan.  i  siol  melynwas  &c.       Sion  Phylip     k 

122  Gwiliwn  bawb  am  gael  yn  bwyd  &c.  Hobin  ddv  I 

b.  Taliessin  gnawd  di  lyssiant  &c.  Edward  ap  Bees    m 

c.  Ar  Hew  arall  oi  orwedd  &c.  Robin  ddv  n 

d.  Adwen  weithian  gvd  Meithoes  &c.  david  lloyd  o 

123  Troi  i  gwlen  rhwng  tri  gwelii  &c.  „        „     p 

b.  Owain  0  rvfain  ywr  ion  &c.  „        ,,      q 

c.  Tri  gair  o  arwydd  a  ddyfod  y  gwyr  frv  (1)  i  doe  ddistrowiad 
«r  y  mynachlogvdd  ag  ar  yr  eglwyssydd  ar  priordav  ar  tav  o  grefydd 
(2)  i  bydd  diystvr  kyrenvdd  a  chyfathrach  (3)  y  daw  dial  fal  i 
dowyd  y  penill  hwu  : 

pan  ddel  mab  y  dvn  i  ddial  r 

ar  y  sais  a  rois  y  drwg  sal. 

124  Gwr  a  yrrodd  i  wraig  atffrind  annwyl  o  henwr  llwyd 

Gyrrais  fyngwraig  na  geiriach  hyd  attad  &c.  Anon  s 

b.  Atteb :  I  mae  darrn  gadarn  ergydiol  &c.  „    t 

c.  (Ymafel  mewn  cornel  fel  ki  &c.)  W  Phylip  vc 

d.  (Glana  Uuneiddia  llun  non  &c.)  Edmund  Price  v 

e.  (Ir  byd  tros  enaid  traws  anian  &c.)     Rowland  Vaughan  w 

125  (Beth  a  dal  ir  corphin  swrth)  Ji,  Vaughan  x 

There  are  several  Englynion  in  English  on  this  page,  but  the  ink 
is  so  pale  that  they  cannot  be  read  easily. 


THE   RED   BOOK   OF  NANNEY.  135 

126  Koivydd  i  ffynon  gwen  frewi 

Y  ferch  wenn  fvr  ychwaneg     ....  a 

i  gorffeno  gaer  y  ffynon  TMiir  Aled 

129  Chwardd  iTwl  ai  meddwl  rnewn  moddion  &c.  Anon  b 

130  Kowydd  i  ddesgreibio  meddwdod 

Nos  da  yt  win  os  dotiav  wyr     ....  c 

nad  ii  yw  nath  neidfa  mwy  John  Phellipp 

133  Kowydd  i  oganv  gwragedd 

Mia  gefais  imi  gyfoeth     ....  d 

fyth  ddilin  y  fath  ddelwav  Roger  Kyjffin 

136  (Gwraig  sydd  anedwydd,  medd  hSii  awdvvr  ffgl.)       J.  Davies  e 

137  Kowydd  nynghanedd  heh  resswm 

gwresog  win  gras  ag  einioes     ....  / 

a  fo  orig  oferach  Hiiio  arwystli 

139  Rlio  diiw  yal.  rliaid  yw  gwiliaw     ....  g 
Klo  bigin  cawr  ij-oikhv  mercli                       Gweryl  mechain 

140  Fob  rhiw  brydydd  dydd  diced     ....  h 
bertb  addwyn  dMvr juj  borth  iddo             Gweirryl  mechain 

142  f  ddiiiv  :  Tydi  ddyn  tew  dy  ddoniav     ....  i 

i  ddyn  a  wnai  i  ddiiw/n/   ddig  ||  (1.  10)  sion  Kent 

143-4S    Blank  leaves  inserted  when  binding,  but  4,  at  least,  of  the  original  leaves 
are  missing  here. 

147   Cowydd  i  Sion  fVyn  (?  o  Lyn  TLygwy) — imperfect 

II  dechraij/cb/  mawl  di  cbwerw/cb/  maetb     ....  k 

a  wna  hebog  ne  bobi  John  Phylypp 

1.50  Marwnad  Sion  Salsbri  o  rug 

O  ddiiw  dad  pa  fyd  ydyw     ....  / 

i  gwelom  bawb  i  gilydd  Sion  Ti'idyr 

153  Moliaiit  gioallt  melyn  tnerch 

Y  lloer  gain  lliw  eira  gweinydd     ....  m 

rbano  ^  mi  yr  bon  ai  medd  Sion  Phillipp 

156       Y  wawr  ddwyrain  rydd  evrwallt     ....  n 

heb  feinioes  i  bwy  finav  „  „ 

159   Owdivl  i  gr:  vychan  o  gorsygedol  ar  y  If.  messiir  ar  higain 

Or  brig  ffrwythiedig  wrtb  hadv     ....  o 

pvr  a  iiortb  odiaetb  per  fErwytliedig  Sion  Phillipp 

165  ILyma  gowydd  i  ddiiw  ag  o  enedigeth  Jessu  grist  yw  gang 

ddiiiv  nodolig  p 

HenfFycb  well  benw  hofF  a  cbv      .... 
iddo  yn  dal  ddiiw  nadolig  Sion  Phillipp 

169   Y  xlix.  Psalm  .  owdl  gowydd  or  hen  ganiad 

Yr  boll  bobloedd  er  ych  lies     ....  q 

dan  y  gwydd  yn  rrynv.  William  Mydltunn 

172       Fanwyl  gristnogion  sy/n/  carv  diiw/n/  iFyddlon  r 

ag  yn   y  orcbmynion  yn  credy     .... 
dyn  ai  obetb  ar  y  tad  /  gael  rhann  oi  wenwlad  nefol. 

Dd:  lloyd  ap  hugh 

176  Kowydd  cariad  perffeth 

Ocb  ddiiw  pam  vycbedd  heb  pwyll     ....  * 

air  gras  dwys  ar  grist  ]fessF  John  phijlipp 


136  MOSTYN    MANUSCRIPT   144. 

180  Cowydd  yn  erbyn  anvdon  ag  ofer  lyve  .  l6o6. 

Band  rhyfedd  boeyn  Trwy  ofid     ....  .       * 

in  dycko  oil  vn  diiw  cv  John  phylipp 

184  Kowydd  i  forgan  havl 

S'  Davydd  hy  edrydd  hawl     ....  h 

a  duw  ar  ai  gadawo  Gr:  llwyd  dd;  ap  Einion 

187  Jr  anvdonicr  :  ffalssedd  fab  anwiredd  nerth     ....  c 

aed  ath  gar  adwyth  gwirion.  Hiigh  arwystl 

189  /j-^iyf/f/ar/jae/.- Kybydd  fab  difedydd  dig     ....        d 
fab  nwyf  nerth  fab  nef  yn  ol.  John  Tiidilr 

191  jf  ofyn  Tarw  dv  i  Reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  bleydd  dros  gr:  vachan 
Tri  annerch  atad  Reinallt     ....  e 

ervr  y  twr  er  y  tarw  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

193       Y  dabler  yn  i  dyblig     ....  / 

i  ffwyth  er  kael  i  IFoethi    Moris  dwyfech  ap  Jeu:  ap  Ein: 

195   Y  daran:  Mae  gair  imi  o  gatiad     ....  g 

am  ysgar  meinwar  a  mi         •  D.  ap  gwilim 

197       Kler  o  gamarfer  a  raarferant     ....  h 

a  hwnw  a  wna  diwedd  ar  faelgwyn  gwynedd       Taliessin 

199  Moliant  Tvdvr  vychan  ap  gryff  ap  Howell 

ILwyth  ynvr  ai  wyr  oi  ol     .     .     .     .  i 

cawn  deiiro  kenav  derwas  Jevan  ah  tydyr  pennllynn 

b.    In  margin:   (Pobl  y  byd  enyd 'adwaenan  o  f^r     T    jn.^^^a  Abraham  k 
fai  araU  yn  fuan  I  ^.  ^^^^ 

Ni  wyl  neb  yn  ol  a  vnan  (  .,  ■   ji       it\ 

,  •  I!  •       ■  u  \       as  It  IS  thought.) 

banner  i  leiau  i  nunan  J  "     ' 

20\  f  ofyn  tabler  J  Sion  gr:  ap  harri  dros  Rob*  ap  hugh  o  bennal 
r  Hew  gwych  gaUvog  wedd     ....  I 

deyl  ryll  ni  cheiif  diawl  i  ran  John  Mowddwy 

204  Moliant  M'  Sion  ssalbri  o  Rvg 

T  Hew  o  Rug  garllaw/r/  allt     ....  m 

aed  ar  ddiiw  dad  dyrdd(o)  di  Sion  tiidUr 

207  Marwnad  Tvdvr  lloyd  o  ial 

Mawr  i  pwis  diiw  marw  post  ial     ...     ,  n 

dyro  nef  i  deivrn  ial  Tvdvrr  Aled 

210  da  i  sion  hokedion  kadarn  fowyd  byr  &c.        Wiliam  llyn  o 

211  kerddgar  dlos  eos  iach  wiail  kedwyn  &c.  ,,         „       p 

b.  blaeyngar  swn  klayar  klowais  gwin  awefn]  &c.     hiiw  llyn  q 

c.  eiliad  mawl  ganiad  mel  gwenvii  &c.  W  llyn  r 

d.  kyfraniad  ganiad  gloyw  gynar  &e.  hiiw  llyn  s 

e.  eos  braint  koednaint  cayadnerth  &c.  W  llyn  t 

f.  kell  bynkiav  melay  ynilitb  y  pillwydd  &c.  hiiw  llyn  u 

g.  kanodd  eos  mewn  keinant  blelhiaday  <Sc.        yr  esgob  Dd:  v 

212  henway/r  deiddeg  abostl :  Dav  lago  iawn  dro  andr.as     &c.   w 
h.  Meddylia  di/n/  dda  dy  ddiwedd  &e.                                        x 

c.  Y  gwr  a  laddodd  y  gwas  ar  hirynt  &c.  y 

d.  Dydd  da  ir  heirdd  brifeirdd  bawb  orhain  &c.  J.  Mowddwy  z 

213  Dydd  da  yt  Sion  galon  ddirgehvawd  &c.     John  Phillipp  aa 
b.  Dydd  da  bawb  ynt  yna  bob  enyd  &c.  Richard  Phillipp   bb 


THE    RED   BOOK    OF    NANNEY.  137 

c.  rho  fawl  tragwyddawl  drwy  ganv  &c.  hiitv  penant  a 

d.  (rhoed  pob  \n  brennvn  i  brynv  &c.  Edmtcnt  Prijsh)  b 
214       Y  fvn  ^raidd  fain  araf     ....  c 

ifeinwych  yw  a  iFynv  i  chael  Davijdd  lloyd  ap  hiho 

217  Koivydd  hymod  Sion  pilston  hen 

Hen  ddelw  hon  addolynt     ....  d 

pe  palle  /n/  rhaed  pob  lle/n/  rliydd  Lewis  Mon 

220  Kowydd  yn  erbyn  balchder—  a  few  lines  torn  out. 

Ocb  ddyn  balch  heddyw/n/  y  byd     ...  e 

***«=*  st  bolchwydd   ffrom  [John  P'\hilipp 

225  Gwuewch  ych  part  Risiart  er  vn  agan  &c.     D.  II.  ap  hugh  f 

b.  Pen  feddwon  dewrion  fydd  dwywrach  &c.         „  „       g 

c.  dwg  fenaid  at  raid  diiw  tri  &c.  Wiliam  Phellip  h 

d.  (Englyn  u  Thelyn  ti,  tMu  ag  Afal  &c.)  Anon     i 
t.         (Eich  ffriw  iach  fEraeth  /  -wen  wiw  a  wnaeth)   &c.             Jo"  Davies    k 

226  ^  Mr:  theodor  prys  prinsipal  yn  yr  hart  hdl  yn  rrydychen 

Duw  or  gwirfyd  rragorfawr     ....  I 

gartre  ym  /  gwr  yt  tra  fwyf  John  Phillipp 

229         (Beth  a  dal  i  ddyn  gaei  tiroedd)  &e.  (JS  II.  on  margm}  R.  O.    m 

231   Kowydd  i  Sr:  Richard  gethin 

J  mae  glaw  am  a  glowais     ....  « 

i  Hew  dv  oil  ai  diail  gyto  jrj  glyn 

233  (Tri   Englyn  ar  wellhad  Gryjffydd    Vaughan  o   Gorsygedol 

Gogoniant  moliaut  i  Dduw  mawr  ei  radd     ....  o 

a  llwyddiant  wellwell  iddo.)  Jo"  Dd. 

234  f  dduv) :  pand  angall  na  ddyallwn     ....  « 

or  Haw  ym  er  llywenydd  Syr  Davydd  Trevor 

235         Uuw  na  bae  'n  ni  fel  i  buom  &o.    (5*  U.  on  margin')  R.  O.  q 

237  y  ddiiio  :  Pwy  sy  ben  yn  pasio  byd     ....  r 

yn  fab  diiw  yn  ddiiw  yn  ddyn.  hiltv  lewys 

240  Os  dy  gael  er  mael  i  mi  a  wneythym  &c.  A7ion  s 

241  y  ofyn  bwckled  i  Robart  pilston  dros  Sion  Wyn  ah  TViliam 

Y  gwalch  rrydd  dan  gylch  rryddavr     ....  t 
dyry  ywch  werth  ydrych  avr                                Sion  tydyrr 

244  Marionad  thomas  vachan  or  pant  glas 

Tored  llwyn  troed  llywenydd     ....  u 

Y  karw  /n/  ^fank  ir  nefoedd  Wiliam  llyn 
249-51  are  misplaced  and  follow  p.  245/ 

249  Kart  gwin  ar  i  min  meinwen  &c.  W"  ph\[\n  v 
b.  Kowydd  dychan  fr  fflint  ai  ffibydd 

Doethwn  ddywsul  diwaethat"    ....  jo 

ai  ffvvrn  vaith  fal  vffernn  fydd       Jeu:  ap  Tudyr  penllvnn 

250  Or  ddavar  i  bydd  cnawd    tvn  /  Or  mor  i  waed  /  Or  haul  i 
lygaid  &c. 

b.  llyma  yr  hanav  y  sydd  mewn  dvn  nid  amgen  wyth  ran  &c.  : 
Os  or  ddavar  y  bydd  mwya  llesg  fydd  &c.  Os  or  mor  doeth  fydd  &e. 

251  Gslyn  gwvdd  ddilwydd  irl^n  ywr  llwynog  &c.    gr:  hir'og  x 

b.  a  thvoi  gorff  yma  a  Ihraw  a  cbwyddo  r  ddwyfoch  iddaw  &c.  y 

c.  Gwell  yw  yfed .  .  glasdwr  or  llymddwr  ar  llaelh  &c.  R.  P    z 

d.  Duw  gwyn  nad  newyn  ar  neb  gwareda  &c.  Anon    aa 


138  MOSTYN  MANUSCKIFT   144. 

248  (Ni  ddigia  doeth  er  clywed  gogan  /  o  ben  ftwl)  &c,  Jo"  d'd.  a 

b.  Dau  Englyii :  (Gwiliwch  Gwen  seren  er  sirio)  Sec.  Tho.  Price    b 

249  (Her  golden  fine  tresses  her  honey  sweet  kisses)  &c.  Jo"  d'd.     c 

250  (If  thou  thinkest  best  to  be  a  Begger  /  without  bagging  money  d 
call  a  quart  and  be  hearty  /  fill  thy  mouth  follow  thou  me)   Jo<i  D'd. 

252  Moliant  Wiliam  hyws  esgob  Han  ehvy 

Pwy  ydyw  arglwydd  pedeirgwlad     ....  g 

acli  esgyn  yn  archesgob  Hugh  Kowrnwy 

255  (Awn  ymadawn  /  may  /  r  /  da/n  rhedeg)   &c.  Anon  f 
b.        (Klyw  ryddfan  Kwynfan  Keinferch)  &o.                         Robert  lioberls  ff 

256  Moliant  ir  archiagon  Pyrs  {see  p.  271  below). 

Mawi-  fy  Eqw  am  riw  fonedd     ....  h 

a  tlu-oi  /n/  hon  A  thro/n/  henwr  Tvdyr  Aled 

259  J  ofyn  kledday  {Syr)  sion  llwyd  o  ahcrgelay 

Y  rhowiowgwalch  mewa  rhagor     ....  { 
i  gledd  ag  i  sion  i  glod                                         thomas  price 

263       Pynkyay  afrwydd  Arwy/r/  flwyddyn     ....  k 

yn  dowyll  i  ni  yn  deuoedd  Davydd  ap  gwilim 

265  pan  f  riwer  /  bryder  /  heb  raid  &c.      Rees  ap  Tuder  ap  W'   I 
h.       Kroesso  Morys  ap  Rys  wr  prydd  &c.       Tho:  Juhn  Katti  m 

c.  Ateb  :  Thomas  ail  Mel  was  yn  moll  &c.  n 

Morys  ap  Rys  ap  hoel  cog 

d.  Ateb  :  ymroi  r  gyfraith  faith  ir  wy  fi  &c.   Totn  John  Katti    o 

266  Y  Haw  :  Y  fvn  orav  llvn  i  Haw     ....  p 

Awr  yn  ol  yr  anwylyd  Syr  Davydd  owen 

269  Kowydd  a  llawer  o  henway  merched  arnof 

Kvr  tost  a  fydd  cariad  dyn     ....  q 

lienwch  a  chymrwch  i  chwi  Thomas  price 

270  (Di  am  gwnaethost  gwyddost  fy  /n/rhagwyddawl  dduw)  &o.  }■ 
b.       beth  sy/n/  cnoi  dan  droi  dwndr  wag  &c.  Edm:  Prys  s 

271  Kowydd  Moliant  i  Pirs  archiagon  Han  elwy 

Y  gwr  lien  ag  ^arll  wyneb     ....  t 
draw  Jessv  bo  dros  i  ben                                    lewis  Daron 

274  Kopi  o  lyfyr  barddonieth  j  ne  brydyddieth — y  llyfyr  cynta 
Trwy  fyfyrdawd  Kapten    Wiliam  Midleton.j 
thomas  orwin  ai  printiawdd  yn  llvndain  15^3. 
Annerch  at  bob  athrylithfaicr  awenyddgar  gymro  y  gah  Wiliam 
Midleton :  Gan    ddarfod  J  ddoetor  sion   Davydd   [Rhy&]    gymeryd 
&c ends  :  Rydd  ir  prydydd  i  gysylltv  y  luesyrav.     Terfyn. 

303  A  treatise  on  the  2^  metres  of  Welsh  poetry  by  the  Athraw 
John  Phillipp 

Tair  kainck  prydyd[d]ieth  y  sydd,  nid  amgen  ynglynion  cywyddav 
ag  owdlav  &c.  ends  :  Ag  fal  hvn  y  terfynaf  y  pedwar  Mesur  ar  hiigain 
cerdd  dafod  ai  dosbarth  yn  ol  Rheol  yr  Athrawon  [sic']  John  Phillip. 

313  Ni  ifrisia  mewn  da,  ar  dwyn  &c.  hugh  ab  Ivan  ab  Robt.    w 

314  Pam  y  gwatwar  meinwar  ai  min  &c.  Anon    v 

b.  Henwav  y   gwyr  a  ddiengodd  or   gadgamlan    O.C.  5lfi: 
sandde  briid  angel  /  rhag  i  deked  .  .  .  Morfran  ap  |egid  &c. 

c.  Saith  gasddyn  diiw  nid  amgen  Kain  ap  adda  Ac. 

315  Oed  krift  689  pan  fy  farw  kadwaladr  vendigaid  &c. 

b.  ILyma  iach  arthur  flArthur  ap  vthtir  ben  dragon  &c. 


THE  RED  BOOK  OF  NANNET.  139 

316  ChrODological  items  about  Adam,  the  incarnation,  Elen'S 
winning  of  the  Cross,  &c.  St.  Ffraid  was  born  A.D.  412;  Arthur 
crowned  416  ;  died  542. 

317  Tri  growndical  doethineh :  Mabawl  yfienctyd  i  ddysgy,  kofF 
i  gadw  dysg.  Ami  synwyroedd  i  ddatganv  dvsg. 

b.  Dyfnwal  moel  myd  pan  vy  vrenin  a  fysyrodd  yr  ynvs  hou  &c. 

c.  Tri  hvd  y  gronvn  haidd  yn  y  vodfedd  a  thair  modfedd  yn 
lied  y  balfF  &c. 

318  Engn:  "  droganav"  :  Pymtheg  cant  gwarant  gorav  &c.  a 

319  ILyma  henwav  y  pedwar  brenin  arrhigan  or  rhai  afarn- 
wyd  yn  gadarnaf  ag  yn  wrolaf  &c.  Briitijs  ap  silvs  ap  ysganvs 
&c.  .  .  ,  ends  :  pan  aeth  arthiir  i  gamlan  oed  krift  oedd  xli]  a  ceccc. 

327  Names  of  men  who  were  the  fairest,  wisest,  strongest,  oldest,  &c. 

328  Concerning  Kadwaladr  Yendigeid  and  the  conquest  of  Britain. 

329  Pa  wedd  i  gellir  dyallt  dvn  doeth :  iii  ddigia  doeth  er  i 
Ogannv  ag  ni  falchia  er  i  ganmol  &c. 

b.  Pan  bechodd  Adda  yraharadwys  yr  arglwydd  ai  trewis  a 
gwialen  a  saith  gaink  arni  &c, 

c.  Marchell  Santes  verch  arwystyl  gloff  ap  kyuedda  wledig 
ap  gwawr  verch  goel  godebog  dyfrydog  sant,  dier  sant,  dyrnog  sant 
brodyr  i  varohell. 

330  Diidiir  sant  brawd  marchell  y  sydd  yn  sant  ynheibarth 

b.  henway  y  saith  gysgadvr  a  gysgassant  ddeiddeug  mlynedd  a 
thrygain  a  thrychant  :  maxianw*,  malcM.f  &c. 

c.  henway  y  saith  merthiir  penna  &c.  Sain  lassar  &c. 

331  Tvdvr  ap  gronw  a  wnaeth  briordy  bangor 

b.  Maelgwn  gwynedd  y  sydd  yn  gorwedd  yn  ynvs  seiriol  a 
wnaeth  brodordy  peumon  a  chlaswrdy  kaer  gybi 

c.  Si  ap  Jerj:  drwyndwn  a  wnaeth  manachlog  Aber  konwy 
a  brodordy  llan  vaes. 

d.  The  arms  of  "  Kornineus "  and  of  ILowarch  Gooh,  and 
the  pedigree  of  the  first  wife  of  IL'n  ap  for:  Drwyndwn. 

e.  lienway  y  diwiav  ar  diwiessav  yn  y  modd  y  mae  llyfraev 
poets  yn  ysgrifenv  am  danvnt.     Phebus  &c. 

333  Elucidarius  :  llyma  ymddidan  vy  rhwng  y  disgybl  ar 
athro  yr  hwn  a  elwir  ysydariys  sef  yw  hynv  cyfarwyddyd  am 
lawer  o  bethav  dierth.  Ag  i  dywod  y  dysgylil  wrth  yr  athro  : 
Dowaid  ym  gyfrwyddyd  ysbysol  dvallvs  am  y  mab  ar  tad  &c.  .  .  . 
ends  :  diiw  ...  an  dygo  ir  llywenydd  a  bery  bytli  heb  drank  heb 
orfFen  yno  i  delom     Amen. 

339  (jf  sion  ap  Rys  dai:  Dewr  wyd  Sion  dirion)  &c.  Sion  Phillipp  b 
(Aleb  :  Nid  af  Sion  /  arw  /  d6n  /  wyr  y  dai)  &c.  R.  Phillipp  c 

340  ILyma  gas  bethav  Jvan  brydydd  hir :  boregwaith  towyll 
niwl  a  braslaw  pigog  &c. 

b.  ILyma  ddewis  bethav  Davydd  meilienydd :  boregwaith  tawel- 
glaer  a  borewlith  ar  yeillion  &c. 

341  Pvm  Oes  byd  a  vy  kyn  geni  krist. 

6.  Anna  vam  vair  oedd  verch  i  Sakarias  &c. 

342  Hyna  vy  o  frenhinoedd  or  bryttaniaid :  Eneas  ysgwyddwyn 
Asganivs  ....  ends  :  kadvan  kadwallawn  kadwaladr. 

b.  (Uadd  y  ci  difri  odwyd  carv  myn  cirig)  &c.  Anon   d 


140  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   144. 

343  The  age  of  the  patriarchs  :  Adda  fy  fy  w,  mil  xxx"  &c. 

b.  Pvm  Brennhinllwyth  hymrv  (1)  yngwynedd  GrviFydd  ap 
Kynan ;  (2)  ymhowys  bleyddyn  ap  kynvyn  ;  (3)  Rhwng  gwy  a 
hafrenn  Elystan  glodrydd ;  (4)  y  morganwg  Kriadog  ap  ^estyn ; 
(5)  ynyhevbarth  Rys  ap  tewdwr. 

c.   Pymtheg  llwyth  gwynedd :  y  mon — hwfa  ap  kynddelw  &c. 

344  ILyma  Grevev  kadw  ddoeth  :  Gorav  vn  bwyd  baraf  &c. 
ends :  gorav  gwaith  vn  dvn  /  gwarchad  tii. 

The  form  Cato  is  correctlj-  given  here,  and  in  Welsh  poetry  of  .the  late  xvth 
and  xvith  centuries  the  name  occurs  in  an  oblique  case  as  Cattwn.  At  some  later 
time  it  was  corrupted  into  Cattwg,  identified  with  St.  Cadoc,  and  duly  famished 
with  a  Welsh  pedigree  !  Doethineb  y  Cymry  in  the  third  volume  of  the  Myvyrian 
is  merely  a  patchwork  based  on  of  the  sayings  of  "  Diohysius  "  Cato. 

345  Pwy  bynag  a  gollo  i  synnwyr  nev  i  madrodd  .  .  yfed  Sygvu 
y  briallv  ....  iach  vydd.  E-hag  brath  neidir  yfed  siig  ysgol  vair 
&c.  O  myni  na  bych  gwenwynig  vf  lonaid  plisgin  wyt'  o  .sygvn 
llysiav  a  elwir  llygaid  krist  ag  ni  fydd  hawdd  genyd  sorri. 

346  The  number  of  Adam's  sons,  and  of  years  it  took  to  build  the 
Ark. 

b.  Concerning  the  wives  and  children  of  "  Lameth  mab  matiisalem." 

347  "  Saith  ogoniant  y  corff  "  a  "  naw  amller  \_sic]  yr  Enaid." 

348  ILyma  Araith  Jolo  gocli :  Nid  amgen  /  Makwy  Serchawgddeyflf 
kystyddliw  devryddlas  /  o  gywaith  Rvon  befr  /  Oedd  yn  lledrad  garv 
&c ends  :  cystyddliw  o  gowaeth  Evon  befr. 

352  Mary  was  15  years  of  age  when  Jesus  was  born  &c. 

b.  (J  Ric.  phillipp  :  Wrth  geissio  niwyno  a  meinwen)  &c.  J.  ph.  a 

353  The  "  statute  "  governing  the  disciples  of  the  Athrawon  and 
pencerddiaid.  Disgibl  spas  heb  radd/nid  oes  nag  ar  f  gylfyd[dyd] 
neii  av  f  radd  neu  ar  i  redd/  ond  barn  pencerdd  /  a  ellir  gwr  wrth 

gerdd  o  bono  &c ends :    oni    ddysg    fod   yn  bencerdd 

ymhen   y  Tair  blynedd  colli  gradd  disgybl  pencerddaidd. 

356  Tri  bardd  kywydd  y  sy.  (6.)  Pedair  cerdd  raddol  y  sy.  (c.) 
Pedair  Overgerdd  y  sy.  (rf.)  Trioedd  Barddonieth  .  .  .  ends  : 
Tri  pheth  a  berthyn  ar  brydydd  clodvovi  /  a  digrifliav  a  gwrthnebii 
gogangerdd./ 

3G0       Hedays  ny  fleyliais  pob  ffos  &c.  D''  lloyd  ap  Win:  h 

b.  J  TV"  John  Thomas  pan  fv  yn  yr  Jndia  c 

William  Sion  dirion  hyd  awr  &c.  huw  gruff: 

361  f  Phillip  John  Thomas  o  hendre  vechan  i  erchi  march 

Vn  or  JModdion  rym  addas     ....  d 

dwy  Einioes  a  daioni  Sion  Phylib 

365  Moes  yn  gysan  im  hannerch     ....  e 
Em  Eigr  moes  yni  ^gain                                 Dd:  ap  gwilim 

Four  other  lines  are  added  in  a  later  hand  as  in  printed  copy. 
b.  7  7?.  <^!^ ;  eill  kelfydd  brydydd  a  beiriododd  merch  &c.  S.  P.  f 

366  Marwnad  a  wnaeth  Sion  Phillip  fw  Athro  William  llyn 

Och  feirdd  Cymry  heirdd  y  rhawg     ....  g 

yn  dal  yw  Enaid  Wiliam  S.  Phillip 

369  (7  humffrey  ap  John  ap  Risiart  o  gefn  haer  debiitie  Sirif 

kyn  dy  swydd  gwiw  rwydd  gwr  iach)  &c.  Risiart phylip  h 


THE  RED  BOOK  OF  NANNEY.  141 

b.  {J  Sion    Jfans  pan   oedd  yn   ddebuti   sirif  /  mab  Jfan  ap 
W"'  powel  o  lanbedr 
kroeso  /i/r  swydd  hylwydd  yma  sion  Jfans)  &c.    Ris'  Ph:  a 

370       Dydd  da  ir  Ihvynog  or  Ogof     ....  6 

ffarwel  rhaid  ym  ffo  ir  allt  Hugh  TLoyd  Cynfel 

374       Oes  diareb  a  sty  rials     ...  c 

hai  praw  /  r  /  byd  hwy  pery  bir  John  Phillipp 

378       Y  genfigen  gvvan  fagiad     ....  d 

ni  wnair  hynt  o  nanavv  [sic]  rhawg  Rich:  Phillipp 

382  Marwnad  y  frenhines  Elisabeth — imperfect. 

Och  brydain  wych  i  brodir     ....  e 

[*#*##]  vn  forwyn  .?  J.  Phillipp 

On  margin  of  383  are  8  11.  by  E.  O. — (Os  ar  Arian  mwyna  merch)  &c. 

387  Kowydd  yr  hobi  hwttaf — imperfect. 

Yr  hobi  a  ddiarhebwyd     ....  / 

garvv  drwst  er  a  gair  drosto  Sion  Mowddwy 

390  Atteb  ir  keffyl-kicttaf  yr  hwn  yw  medd-dod 

Tydi  /  r  /  bardd  wyd  awdvr  bud     ....  y 

,         a  gad  i  mi  gadw  y  march  Richard  Phillip 

Ou  margins  of  392-93  are  Eoglynion  by  Jo"  dd:  (Cwttyn  aer  bregyn)  &c. 
394       Yr  wylan  deg  ar  Ian  dwr  h 

loyw  blii  gofl  abl  o  gyflwr     .... 
dwr  fferm  Aber  y  bermo 
dwr  a  bar  yn  dir  i  bo  John  Phillipp 

397   ¥  hyrttie  :  Diiw  sv  ben  nid  oes  neb  y wch     ....  i 

yn  egr  ai  pyrsse  /  n  /  weigion  Simwnt  vachan 

401  Kowydd  yn  erbyn  balchder 

Ond  Rhyfedd  ban  taer  ofyn     ....  k 

edwyn  i  fai  fed  yn  falch        Hiiw  Arwystl  (W"  Kynwal) 

408  Kowydd  i  yrv  jrj  eos  yn  genad  o  Ivndain  i  gymrv 

Yr  eos  fwyn  acres  falch     ....  I 

Diiw  raaddav  bob  dim  vddvn  Thos:  Price 

407  Kowydd  ir  ffiol  oddfyn  brvch  or  dolav  gwyn  yn  howyn 

Hawddamor  hoff  oror  ffawd     ....  m 

A  chynvdd  yw  fferchenawg  Rissiart  Phillipp 

411  Dychan  ir  lleidr  a  ddvg  y  kwpan 

Andras  ir  lleidyrwas  llowrwan     ....  n 

vn  air  a  syddas  anrns  iddo  Richart  Phillipp 

414   Owdicl  y  gath  .  Mae  genni  Owdwl  ffyrnig     ....  o 

ni  ddaw  hi  mwy  i  gar  kaws  Robin  Klidro 

418       Agor  nef  wrth  lef  araith  lafar  &c.  (see  p.  294)    S.  tvdvr  p 

421  k.  k.  k  :   a.  a,',  a/  wyd  o  Eann  q 
d.  d  d:    v.  v.y  1/  :   u.  n.  n.  n/ 

p.  p.  p :    t.  t  1 1 :    powdwr  tonn 
U.  11. 11 :  avr  wyd  ar  y  llenn. 
(6.)       (Ni  ■wn  i  pwy  /  i  -ffarohodd  rhywyn  |  na  ffriodwn  ferch  i   gerlyn  |       )■ 
rhag  ofn  wrth  hir  ymrwbio  ai  fratie  |  f ynd  yn  garl  nytiriol  fine) . 

422  Owdl  Bachell  dre  neu  Owdl  vnos 

Mab  kadr  kydwaladr  keidw  eilydd     ....  « 

dy  glod  ywch  deg  o  wledydd  Syppyn  Kyfeiliog 

425  Kowydd  i  ddyn  pan  golle  ifienhtyd 

Nid  af  ir  gelli  dan  gollen     ....  * 

Trigen  hoes  i  trigwn  John  kent 


142  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   144. 

427       DiJTV  kreawdwr  nef  a  davar     ....  a 

diiw  gwyn  ath  law  dwg  ni/th  wledd  Dd.  Nanmor 

429  Owdwl  foliant  Sion  salbri  o  Rvg 

Sion  Ervr  y  gwyr  i  gid     ....  b 

Tra  gweler  y  ser  treiglaf  air  sion  Sion  tuder 

432  Diiw  tad  fwya  rhad  fy  rhi  &c.  Rich:  phillipp    c 

433  Owdwl  dvn  oi  ddechre  hyd  i  ddiwedd 

Y  baban  yn  wan  vnwaith  i  genir     ....  d 

benvdd  baban  fydd  a  baban  fii  Edm:  prys 

436  (Ni  chlowais  flas  oa  chlaiiar  nag  oer)  &c.  •  e 

437  Afiechyd  penyd  im  poeni     ....  '  f 
trwm  ir  hen  y w  tramwy  I'hvch                 jfeuan  llwyd  leiaf 

'(6.)  Englyii  ar  deiddeg  arwydd  ynddo. 

Hwrdd  trwy  gyfiwrdd  tarw  gefell  krank  &c.   D,  Nanmor  g 

438  Yr  Eos  deg  aeres  dail     ....  h 
ai  kloi  y  medd  ai  kael  ym  lawn                           Rees  Kain 

440  Vrddas  priodas  prydwn  allv  diiw  &c.  hiigh  Arwystl   i 
(b.)       Trwch  wr  wyd  tra  chwerw  odl  &c.  k 

441  Kyffessa  wyla  mi  a  welais     ....  I 
i  gotfa  f essii  mia  gyffessais                           John  Mowddwy 

444       Ystyriwn  gwvs  dirion  ged     ....  m 

digon  vnn  an  dygo  ni  John  Phillipp 

448  Klowch  son  megis  kloch  sais     ....  n 
Anvsg  oedd  am  nas  gwyddwn                    S' lewys  meydwy 

449  Atteb :  syr  lewis  felis  i  fwyd     ....  o 

di  fwyd  y w  dy  dii  f eydwy  S''  phyllip  emlyn 

Teir  Marwnad  i  Dafydd  lloyd  ap  thamas  a  Lanaber 

452       Saeth  hir  saitb  soweth  oer  fii     ...     .  p 

trvain  or  byd  trown  ir  bedd  Tiidiir  Owen 

455       Troes  i  ni  byth  tros  yn  -byd     ....  q 

A  gymrai  hwn  gymro  hael  Gruffiith  Owen 

459       Gwae  fi  byth  o  goiio  bedd     ....  t 

i  law  diiw  aeth  le  da  iawn  John  Kain 

463  (Eos  treia  nos  trwy  nwyf)  &c.  Hugh  gruff:   s 

(b.)       (Elisse  gore  dy  egori  waelwr  /  i  weled  dy  f rynti  /  t 

nid  dyn  ynifel  wyd  ti  /  dowtiest  fod  enaid  iti)    Hugh  gr: 

464  Kowydd  dychan  ir  gwr  kanmholieth  ir  wraig 

Kerais  ddyn  fwyn  i  hwyneb     ....  « 

A  diawl  i  goad  el  ai  gwr  Sion  tudur 

465  (e  ga  fi  ond  i  gyfarch  |  gann  eiddig  fenthig  i  farcU  v 
ag  ni  chaf  yn  ddi  wrafvn  |  gann  eiddig  fenthig  i  fvn.) 

"(6.)       (Os  kyw  k6g  towiog  or  tyd)  &c.  Syr  Morgan  Powell  w 

466  Drwg  helynt  oedd  gynt  nid  gav     ....  ^ 
a  nado  dyngv  /n/.nvdon                           hugh  ap  Richard  ap  davydd 

468   Englynion  on  the  subjects  of  the  following  proverbs  : — 

a,        Gwell  heuffordd  na  ffordd  newydd  :  y 

Gwell  henffordd  hyffordd  Ilei  /r/  hofiych  &c. 

b.  Nid  digon  dyravno  :  Ni  cheifE  dvn  ronvn  ond  a  ranodd  duw  &c.       z 

c.  Gwell  diiw  na  drwg  obaith  :   Wrth  bob  ing  kyfing  kofwaith  &c.      aa 

d.  Nid  a  red  a  geiff  bydd :  Gwir  yw/r/  ddlhareb  beb  gydd  &c.  bb 


THE    RED    BOOK   OF    JS-ASNEY.  143 

«.       Ni  ■wyl  ynfyd  i  fai :  Ehiw  ddyn  nid  edwyn  mwy  nor  dull  i  fai  &c.  a 

f.  Gwell   car  mewn    Uys   nag   avr   ar   fys  ;  h 
gvivW  i    ddyn    rhydyn  angbariadye  &o. 

g.  Heb  ddiiw  heb  ddim  /  diiw  a  digon  :  Duw  tad  da  gariad  &c.  c 
A.        Gwell  duw  ua  drwg  obaith  :   gobeithiwn  gwiliwn  dirgelwaith  &c.         d 

i.        Gwell  grod  ymliwrs  na  disgwyl  ar  arall  :  gwell  i  ddyn  iaith  vuvn  &c.     e 

k.       Meddwl  byrr  a  wna  bir  ofal  :   gwiliwcb  na  fyddwch  feddal  &c.  / 

■1.        Gwell  ywr  maen  earw  atalio  1  „  •  »      i      c      »     •  i     o 

•'  11  «  11  r  ■   gwell  1  wan  traglan  ion  treiglo  &c.    a 

nar  maen  Uyfn  a  oUyngo  J       °  °  °  " 

m.  Kos  din  tayog  fo  gach  ith  ddwrn  :  Pwy  am  n^^  bynag  obwyth  &e.  h 

n.  Kvro/r/  kvnn  a  el:  gwir  ywr  ddihareb  dan  gel  &c.                               i 

u.  Tafod  drwg  a  dyrr  yr  asgwrn :  bid  perfEaith  daraith  &o.                       k 

p,  Tafod  avr  ymben  dedwydd :  na  obar  ymcbwerwi  na  cbwyth  &o.         I 

q.  Gwell  vn  hwde  na  dav  di  a  gei:  Odid  addewid  ar  a  ddawai  Sec.       m 

r.  Gwell  bir  wedd-dod  na  drwg  wra  :  koeliwn  ystyriwn  bob  ystoria  &c.  n 

■s.  Yr  hai  a  laddodd  yr  hwcb :  0  falais  er  trais  A\r  trwch  &e.                   o 

t.  A  ddyko  llwy  fo  ddwg  a  fo  mwy :  Y  Hank  a  ddyko  y  llwy  &o.        p 

11.  Hawdd  kynne  tan  yn  lie  tanllwytli  r  bydd  gynil  eiddil  oddeg  &c.       q 

V.  Ki  cbwrnog  halog  i  bais  :   ua  char  ymryssou  na  cliais  air  chwerw  &c.  r 

w.  Ni  cheir  y  melys  beb  y  chwerw  :  ui  cbeir  melys  dilys  mewn  dol  &c.  s 

472  Enylyn :  Kred  ^r  tad  wir  gariad  ragorion  &c.                                           t 

b.  Dyma  lety  hv  boewders  &c.                                                                         a 

e.  Y  benglog  ddiwair  beb  vnglod     .     .     .                           D''  John  Kent  " 

474  jf  ofyn  march  fj  Sr  Richard   bwkle  dros  glidro 

Doe  kennes  y  mouwes  mor     ....  w 

a  bwrw  baw  rhyd  y  byd.  ?  Bob:  Klidro 

477  Marwnad  y  givyr  wrth  gerdd 

Twyllfrav  bradog  towyll  frith     ....  x 

ond  gweddillioa  dynion  da  Rees  Kain 

479  Na  werth  nef  golef  er  golyd  bydol  &c.  y 

480  ffarwel  dawel  ^or  Dewi     ....  ^ 
bv  diwedd  esgob  dewi  (1604)  S'  W  tomas  o  Ian  ddtjfrwr 

b.       Tristyd  ers  ennyd  ni  soniaf     ....  aa 

vn  diiw  gwyn  an  digonof  Anon 

481  Owdiol  foliant  Elys  vychan 

Pa  eniprwr  milwr  molan     ....  JJ 

nag  Empriwr  a  milwr  llei  /r/  amaclon  Anon 

485  Kowydd  kyngor  J  Robert  vauchan 

Y  Tirion  lain  nod  dewrwych     ....  cc 

rhowiog  foJd  y  rliawg  fyddych  Morvs  dwyfech 

488  Ofer  pand  ofer  ir  penn  doetli  <fee.  John  phillipp  dd 

489  Yfedley  fawr  :  ILef  a  Eoeson  llafar  weission     ...  ee 

lie  rtioed  y  fawr  fendith  Edmwnt  Prys 

491-2  A  fragment  ouly  of  this  leaf  is  left. 

Kywyvbv  rhwng  John  Phillip  a  John  Tudur. 

493       II  rhwydd  ywr  twf  rhyddhav/r/  tafod     ....  ff 

na  ddeled  ymweled  mwy  John  Tudur 


144  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   144. 

496  Atteb  :  Yr  Eda  flin  or  adain  flaeinwen     ....  a 

ymwelaf  yma  eilwaith  John  Phillip 

499  Afeb  .-   Y  bi  wrth  fol  y  berth  fwyn     ....  6 

Tro  /r/  min  att  wyr  or  mynydd  John  Tvdvr 

.502  Atteb :  Y  kiw  kallddadl  kwckyllddv       ....  c 

arfer  min  arf  or  mynydd  John  Phillip 

505       Nos  da  ir  freithglog  biogen     ....  d 

ddewisgwbl  ir  arglwydd  esgob  John  tvdvr 

508  K.  heddwch  rhwng  S'  Rich:  bwckle  a  mystr  Wil'm  lewys  ofon 

Os  Mon  yw  ynys  y  mel     ....  e 

ir  gwirion  a  ro  gwared  Richart  Gruffyth 

o\2  pwllkeris:  Perigl  ar  forbwll  myn  peris     ....  / 

mann  trist  yw  myned  trostaw  John  tvdvr 

513  jf  erchi  lladd  y  pavn  oedd  luttai  D.  nanmor  at  wen  or  ddol 

Madyn  Ronwyn  By  envvir     ....  g 

Am  i  own  ir  ymwanwn  Gr:  ap  Kynvrig  ne  R'  go},  o  Ryri 

515  DefEro  dwm  gidwm  gedyrn  &c.  Gyttor  glvn  h 

b.  Dyfrgrank  rryw  afank  rryfawr  &c.  W.  Egwad   i 

c.  braisg  brenn  ais  derwen  yn  ystorio     ....  k 
oil  er  diiw  yn  y  llawr  dwys                          leuan  ap  eirion 

516  Bacliembyd  berth  byd  barth  bwydav  gwressog  / 
bvr  enwog  i  breiniav  &c.            Roff  o^P  Robert  o  Ian  ynvs 

b.  Yr  Epart  sydd  yn  Newidio  bob  blwyddyn  /  o  mynwch  i  wybod 
y  dydd  i  bo  newid  y  lleyad  gwybyddwch  yr  apart  &e. 

c.  Ofer  a  glasger  [sic]  yn  glyd  with  arian  &c.     W"  Philip  m 

d.  (Mogel  gellwair  gair  neu  egori  &c.)  Anon  n 

517  Y  Tribeirdd  digeirdd,  yn  gwridogi  &c.  sion  kain  o 

b.  dyfeisiodd  keissiodd  sion  kain  &c.  Richard  Philip  p 

c.  heb  vngair  kellwair  kyn  i  koUo  &c.        ,  sion  kain  q 

d.  Os  blewyn  a  dynn  na  dau  &c.  Rich:  Philip  r 

e.  Os  estyii  a  fyn  yn  faith  &c.  sion  kain    s 

f.  Pe  im  rhwmid  mewn  tid  man  &c.  Rich:  Philip   t 

518  O.s  beya  neb  fowdwl  drwy  ysbio  bai  &c.  Robart  Mredeth  u 

b.  J  dabacko:  Os  hwn  y w  gelyn  y  golvvg  ar  pen  &c.  lyick  hvwes  v 

c.  Nid  drwg  naws  mwg  nis  maga  ddoliir  &c.  Rich:  Philip  w 

d.  Tra  lych  iach  a  gwych  heb  giir  &c.  Pd.  Prys  x 

e.  (A  garo  morwyn  o  ddyn  gwirion  &c.)  Anon  y 
619  Y  gwirionllwdn  teg  rhownllaes     ....  z 

a  reni  heddwch  ir  enaid  ffoidk  Prys 

522  Dyrie  or  messur  hwyaf 

gwrandewch  ar  dreith  ystyiieth  a  iiart  o  gwrs  y  byd  ...    aa 
dyn  tra  dalio  i  fwa  i  bawb  a  saitha  Saeth 

Risiart  lloyd  gwas  S''  J.  wyn  o  wedir 

524  Ysdyriwch  bobl  wrth  ysdori  y  byd  &c.  Anon  bb 

525  Dwyreinwynt  floeddwynt  syflin     ....  cc 
dymyr  wiwdeg  dim  Reidiach                 Rich:  Phyllip  1615 

b.      Dyn  ydwy  yn  kydnabod  vn  diiw  yn  y  drindod     .     .     .  dd 
Amen  a  mwynhay  trigaredd  Ry,  Ednyved 


THE  RED  BOOK  OF  NANNEVT.  145 

528       Gwrandewch  dreithy  hanes  gwraig  a 

sy  waeth  na  draig  ne  wiber  &c 

yn  iach  yw  gwr  lonyddwch  {Richart  ffylib) 

530  Ysarf:  Doe/r/  pryd  hwn  ir  oeddwn  i     .     ,     .      .  b 

ymgarv  mi  ag  Avron  jfo/o  goch 

532    y  Hong  :  Anodd  ym  roi  hawddamawr     ....  c 

pettwn  i  mynwn  y  mod  ,,         „ 

534  0  wael  bridd  digydd  duw  gwyn  &c.  Anon  d 

535  Marwnad  D'd  lloyd  llyvo:  ap  gruff: 

Nid  af  i  ddyffrynn  dyfi     ....  e 

bid  yw  wyrion  bedeiroes         howel  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  y  gof 

536  gweddys  a  medrys  ymadrodd  &c.  hiigh  ap  Jeu:  ap  Robert  f 

537  kais  gyfrif  dy  bri£  heb  ddim  breg     ....  g 
paladr  a  gualadr  y  gwyr                                Gr:  hfraethatvg 

b.      Dowch  gwynedd  ir  wledd  ar  Ian  konwy  h 

pam  y  kennwch  bawb  fyngham 
Yn  fy  myw  ni  wyl  fy  mam  fyngwar 

heb  gadair  arian  nosdawch  dam  Dd:  ap  Edniwnl 

538  Y  tri  kostoglwyth  (1)  y  blaidd  rhudd  or  gest  (2)  ystinffwrch 
ymhowys  (3)  Adda  fawr  y  Mor^anwg 

b.  J  wallt  merch  :  Mae  llwyn  mae  llv  yw  annerch     ...         / 
wych  ben  ar  fy  mraich  i  bo  John  Phyllypp  l6'l6 

541       gwae  ddanc  wyr  holant  rhylawn  &c.       Gr:  ap  Jeu:  IVnf"  k 

b.      Kredaf  yn  nvw  kv  radawl     ....  ,  / 

A  men  i  delom  yno  Edmwnt  Prys 

544       Dvn  ydwy  yn  barod  a  aned m 

er  maint  y  sydd  im  herbyn  leuan  Tudiir  owen 

546  Gwirdduw  gorevdduw  a  greawdd  ddyn  &c.       W"  phillip  ii 

547  Gader  lies  mwynder  a  llais  min  &c.  Rich:  Philip  o 

b.  Ehyfedd  yw  llwybrwedd  y  lien  &c.  „  „      p 

c.  heb  rent  aed  i  went  daw  dydd  &c.  Rolant  Vychan  q 

d.  Samson  fawr  grevlon  fyr  gwrola  &c.    Hugh  ap  Jeu:  ap  Ro'   r 

548  Yr  Eiddiges :  Mawr  genym  awr  ag  ennyd     ....  « 

i  bwrn  ai  dyko  yw  bedd  Gruffuth  hiraethawg 

550  "j  ddysgy  rhinwedde,  o  chymri  boen  fawr  t 

Y  rhinwedd  ath  galyn,  arth  boen  eiff  i  lawr 
Plesser  mewn  drygie,  pwy  bynnag  ai  gwneiff 

Y  blesser  a  dderfydd,  ar  boen  a  barheiff      H.  ap  J.  ap  R. 
b.       fo  welir  yn  igen  /  y  donen  yn  deg  &c.  n 

551  Otvdl  y  lleidr :  budreiddleidr  fal  neidr  y  nos     ...  o 

Ymeth  o  nef  am  waith  nos  deio  ap  leuan  dv 

554  Anhercha  gyra  gwedi  gwared  &c.        Elissa  ap  W  lltvyd  w 

555  Marwnad  hugh  ap  John  ap  howel  o  lanvendigaid 

Och  hir  lie  i  keirir,  kowiriaid     ....  x 

Am  na  ade  dduw  yn  huw  yn  hir  W"  llyn 

558  Tv  /r/  ffyddlon  tirion  lie  i  tario  &c.  John  Philip  y 

559  Oni  weli  /r/  ffordd  yn  Ole  &c.  Morys  up  J.  Wyu   z 
h.  Kowydd  yn  erbyn  dylyn  kwrio  a  thafarnnav 

Y  kwrw  rhudd,  kar  yr  heidden     ....  «« 
a  thafarn  ddiffaeth  hefyd                                      Ri:  Phylhjp 

e    87130.  K 


146  .  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   144. 

563  ai  keissio  i  gario  mewn  gwynt  &c.  J.  Ph:  a 

b.  Ann  :  howddgar  feinwar  /  ar  faneg  &c.       Ed:  ap  hd  ap  g:  b- 

c.  beth  pe  daw  riw  ddaw/  hwyr  vddyn  &c.    Rees  op  Edn'ed  c 

d.  glana  llineiddia  /  Uiw  nonn/  ed:  ap  liowell  ap  gruff  d 

564  gidav  dad  rhoddiad  /  pvr  Ebwyddwyn  &c.  R.  Ph:  e 

b.  Pan  for  ^essv  /n/  barnv  /r/  byd  &c.  Rees  ap  Edneved  f 

c.  Koel  kynfor  ifor  /  ofydd  /  idwal  &c.  fV"  Ph:  g 

565  Pymp  Englyn :  Swyddog  braii  enwog  ir  brenin  &c.     Anon  h 

566  Yfantell:  Vn  Hew  ifank  yu  llifon i 

na  bae  wr  hen  neb  ai  rhoes  Jvan  dewlwyn 

568  Marwnad  i  wraig  Sion  ap  hoyiell  vychan  o  berkyn 

Troes  alar  byth  tros  lawr  bedd k 

ag*  o  ras  hir  iw  gwr  sion  John  kain 

571  Moliant  J  Edward  llwyd  O  Lwyn  y  maen  Esq: 

Y  llwyd  o'n  gwlad  llwdwn  y  gloeh     .....  / 
a  chyfaii  barch  i  vyw  /n/  ben                                  Rys  Kain 

574  Moliant  J  Robevt  lloyd  o  rhiw  goch  /  Esqr: 

Y  gwr  addfwyn  gwareiddfoes     ....  m 
<)n  rhowiog  yt  rhiw  goch                                         Edw:  vrien 

577  Kowydd  hymod  i  Sion  Edward  or  tcaiin  Esqr: 

Bar  trablin  a  bair  Trwblaeth     ....  %■ 

awr  och  dig  er  chwe  dvgiaeth  Rys  kain 

581  Kowydd  moliant  Gr:  ap  Robert  vachan 

Pwy  sy  dirion  post  dewrwych     .....  c 

kynnwys  beirdd  kannoes  ^  bych  Morys  dwyfech 

583  Marwnad  Mr:  John  gruff  a  Ivn 

Pa  ryw  ddiliw  priidd  alaeth     ....  p~ 

JarW  ynys  ir  Uywenydd  „  „ 

■)87  Marwnad  kynta  Morys  Dwyfech  i  Mr:  Jo:  gruff  o  lyn  .  15§5 

Pa  angav  loes  pa  ing  lid     ...     .  q 

Taled  oi  enaid  Tilyth  Morys  dwyfech 

591  jf  Sion  gruff:  Och  nos  och  ddwynos  och  ddydd  &c.  „         r 

h.  J  Sion  kain  :  Y  diflas  foelwas  a  wna  fai  'n  gynar   ....  * 
Sion  cain  waeth  y  brain  ar  brig  gruffydd  liafren 

c.  Moliant  Mr:  thomas  Madryn 

Vn  gorav  diiw  ann  gweryd     ....  t 

att  henaint  hwy  J  tynych  W^  llyn 

595  Marwnad  y  meistres  Sidn  .   .  merch  Syr  Wiliam  gruff,  IS'it 

Anwadal  yw  anwydav     ....  u 

Annedd  yian  ynhiiy  ddiiw  sydd  W  llyn 

597  Marwnad  J  Mastr  Robert  griiff 

Vn  diiw  Oer  in  davaren     ....  v- 

Y  mynwes  diiw  mewn  ystad  ■       Morys  dwyfech 

601  jf  ofyn   bwckled  f  mastr  Robert  pilstwnn  dros  Wiliam  ap 
Jemwnt  llwyd  J  gefnder 

Y  dyn  ir  hael  dann  avr  hen     ....  w 
^  ddav  bwyth  o  dda  bath  awl                         Morys  dwyfech 

603  Kowydd  kymod  Mr  TV"  griiff  o  garnarfon 

Karnarfon  hen  gofion  (wy)r     ....  x 

ar  Haw  gennych  ]farll  gwynedd  W"  llyn 


THE  RED  BOOK  OF  NANNEY.  147 

606  gwelais'  ddyn  irwyn  yn  Oeri  /  n  /  gwilied  /  ai  galon  yn  torri  a 
na  ddoe  wenn  dan  fedwenni  /  o  doe  n  i  cho  i  haddo  hi 

607  Marwnad  Mr:  Wiliam  thomas  0  yarnarfon 

Y  maes  Trwm  oi  ossod  Traw     ....  h 
dvg  fyd  gwych  yw  r  degfed  gwr                       Sion  Phillip 

611   Marwnad  y  marchog  Pilstwn  S' John  pilstxon  .   1551   . 

Troes  Oer  gwyn  Tair  sir  gwynedd     ....  c 

och  och  am  wr  ni  chewch  mwy  Sion  hrwynog 

613  Gwelais  saer  rhydaer  a  deurydd  Rychog  &c.  {^  Ri:  llwyd)  d 

614  Owdl  foliant  Owain  ap  Sion  0  gaergai 

Yr  hydd  Tragowydd  tir  a  gai     ....  e 

na  bo'm  awr  hebod  fy  hy[no]d  hydd  (  Wiliam  llyn) 

618  Mar:  Mestres  Mari  vychan,  merch  hari  vychan  or  ddol  gav 

Och  ddiwedd  dyn  och  ddydd  dig     ....  / 

Diiw  merodr  Enaid  Mari  Sion  Phillip 

622  {Kowydd  i  bvm  mab  ll'ewelyn  ap  hwlkyn  o  fon) 

Bid  llawen  Pawb  bod  llwyn  per     ....  g 

ir  hyddod  dorchav  rhvddavr  Iloicel  kilan 

624  Kowydd  kymod  J  Mastr  Sion  gruffydd  o  garnarfon 

Bardd  wyf  fi  sydd  brvdd  ^  fyd     ....  h 

wr  dewr  ^awn  er  da'r  ynys  Rys  kain 

627  K.  J  gatlrin  Trefor  gwraig  Sion  wyn  ap  huw  o  Langedwyn 
Brevddwyd  tost  heb  arwydd  tal     .     .     .     .  i 

ywch  syn  61  /  chwi  a  Sion  wyn  Rys  kain 

630  K.  J  Mastr  Davis  persson  Mallwyd  (agj  nj  a'wr  doctor  Davis) 

Y  Sant  iffangk  sy  '  n  tyfv     ....  h 
gleissiad  ar  bob  Bglwyssvyr                             Edward  frien 

635-  Kowydd  J  Mastr  Sion  llwyd  o  Aber  llwyfeni 

Pa  lew  gwar  byth  plygwr  beilch     ....  I 

yt  ti  Sion  oed  dav  o  Saint  „         „ 

638  bendith  (tad)  rhediad  mewn  rhin  &c.  „         „    m 
b.   Tri  Etiglyn :  kyfarchaf  soniaf  yn  Siwr  &c.     Sr  Wogan  [?]  n 

639  Kowydd  Moliant  karri  ap  Jeuan  llwyd 

Y  Hew  gwar  allvawg  gwych     ....  o 
hiroes  ywch  hari  a  Sian                                            Ed:  Jrien 

642   Owdl  i  Syr  Sion  salbri  o  lyweni 

Marchog  avr  torchog  wjt  i     .     .     .  p 

gwyr  a  meirch  a  gair  niarcbawg  Edward  Vrien 

647  Kowydd  Moliant  J  huw  nanav  ag  foi  gwrthododd  SfC. 

Yr  hydd  Eowog  hardd  wyneb     ....  q 

ap  hiiw  bendith  ddiiw  'n  i  thai  jfevan  Tew 

651  Koxoydd  Jofyn  Rapier  dros  Robert  dylynior 

Yr  yeh  gwynn  ar  awch  genyd     ....  r 

yn  i  ddig  o  gig  y  gwas  9i'^ff:  hafren 

654  Moliant  J  Wiliam  Wynn  o  lanfair 

Y  gwalch  ir  dann  gylch  evraid     ....  s 
wyd  o  ryw  Seth  dair  oes  hydd                        Edward  Jrien 

657  Moliant  jf  Sion  llwyd  o  Aber  llwyfeni  gwr  o  gyfreth 

Mae  vn  gwr  am  enw  a  gwedd     ....  t 

ag  oen  fo  ^arll  gwynn  a  fydd  /  ,,         ,. 

K  2 


148  MOSTTN  MANUSCRIPT   144.      • 

661  Mar:  gaynor  gwraig  Ed:  Prys  vi  Jf"  llwyd  o  Riwaedaicg 

Rhyfedd  iawn  a  rliy  afiach     ....  a 

er  yn  ifangk  ir  nefoedd  Edward  Jrien 

665  Mar:  Sion  hwcks  o  gonwy  gwr  i  Mrs:  Marged  o  gors  y  gedol 
O  duw  gwynn  nid  yw  gynnes     ....  b 

Diiw  ^on  fo  da  iw   enaid  Edward  Jrien 

668  Marwnad  gwraig  huw  gwyn  o  vodfel 

Dayar  vawr  gronn  darfii  r  gwres     ....  c 

Haw  ddiiw  drossom  llvdd  dreissiwr  „         „ 

671  Moliant  J  Edward  wyn  or  eeme\f\ 

Yn  flaenor  mae'n  Jfor  ni     .     .     .     .  d 

pe  a  mawl  fawn  /  pvm  mil  fych  „         „ 

674  Keysiwch  amserwch  lyfr  mesuraii  kerdd  &c.  Ri:  Ph:   e 

675  Owdl  gwyr  Caer 

]f  Reinallt  mae  cledd  ai  roynyn  yu  graff     ....  f 

hwythaii  can  glapiaii  cann  gledd  lewys  glyn  cothi 

678  Marwnad  huw  ab  Wiliam  tiidiiv 

Dilawen  feirdd  dylwn  fod     ...  g 

Ar  i  ol  iw  aer  Wiliam  Ed:  Vrien 

682  Moliant  J  Elis  ap  Robert  wynn  o  Sylfaen 

Mae  gwr  ni  bv  filwr  fwy     ....  h 

wyd  ail  Siob  yt  Elis  wynn  „        „ 

685   Mar:  Marg'^  (ff^-  gf^  o-p  Evan  ap  Sianhin  a  syr  aber  tyfi) 

Och  oered  ynn  vwch  Avron     ....  i 

hwy  yn  y  byd  hwnn  i  bo  Ed:  vrien 

689  Deg  Englyn  i  ddyn  loywbryd  Ian 

Mewn  JEglwj's  /  dyn  Iwys/dann  lenn  o  sidan     .     .     .     .    k 
foliany  diiw  o  flaen  dyn  Anon 

690  Mae  s&n  i  talem  i  slot  /  yn  siwr  ni  wn  i  pa  siit  &c.      S.  tud'   I 
b.      Di  gyfoeth  a  noeth  iw'n  wir  dyn  &c.      S'n  ap  dd:  ap  S'cin  m 

691  Achav  :  Elsbeth  V3  Roberc  gruff  o  sir  vysyfed  /  Robert  gruff 
vn  or  gard  ir  vrenhines  Elizabeth  ag  oedd  rab  griifF  ap  Rys  ap 
Robert  &c.  &c ends :  Mam  Efa  yngharad  ferch  hvgyn  holant. 

693    (Codais  ymolchais  yn  Mon  cin  nawn  u 

kiniewias  yn  kaeilleon 
Prid  Gosber  yn  y  Werddon 
pernhawn  with  dan  mawn  M6u)  Anon 

694  Arfe:  Arfe  rhys  ap  tewdicr  maior  o  ddehav  barth—Mevr 
melyn  rampiant  maes  coch  bordr  y  maes  melyn  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  Arfe 
Ely  Stan  glodrydd  llew  melyn  rampiant  i  wyneb  retrogation  a  maes  o 
goch,  a  thri  flenn  baedd  dvon  a  maes  gwyc  quarter  y  Uevad  ar  benn 
pob  vn  or  bavddied. 

699  Kowydd  Esboniad  arr  ddameg  yn  Luc  x 

0  frodyr  oil  fawr  rad  rym     ....  o 

Ynghroes  diiw  ag  ynghrist  oil  John  Phillip 

703  Kowydd  kyngor  i  Owain  vychan 

Pei  Seythyd  powys  weithian     ....  p 

drwyddyn  bawb  drwy  ddiiw  yn  benn         Owain  gwynedd 

706  jfffynonn  Lowen  :  Dwr  ffynonn  dirion  /  a  dalld  &c.        Anon  q 

b.  Risiart  Mredydd  oedd  yn  cysgy  He  roedd  Ivniav  cythreiliaid 

ar  y  parwydydd  oi  gwmpas  pan  ddoeth  vn  oi  gadnabod 
ag  erchi  iddo  egoryd. 
Na  ddyrpd  /  Dafydd  yn  /  ddirieid  He  i  rwy  &c.   R.  Mred:  r 

c.  Afeb:  gwnn  i  ymgroesi  /  fal  grasowl  &c.  D.  P.  s 


THE   RED   BOOK   OF  NANNEY.  149 

707  Dwyn  arvrydd  diiw  'n  rhwydd  /  yn  yi-  het  &e.    R.  Mred:  a 
b.   Ateb  :  Beth  a  dal  yt  gynal  Amcauion  &c.  D.  P.  b 

708  Marwnad  Sioii  brwynog 

Och  ^essii  drwy  achos  draw     ....  c 

gyd  ai  saint  y  gedy  Sion  Monjs  ap  Jeuan  ap  Einion 

710       Kerais  Ennyd  cwrs  Anawdd     ....  d 

gwenn  iawn  fwyn  ag  ynn  Onest  Edmond  prus 

713  J forfydd :  Hoyw  deg  Riain  am  hudai     ....  e 

ha  ha  gwraig  y  bwa  bach  dd:  ap  gwilim 

714  Kowydd  i  ferch  yn  dysyfy  barn 

Serch  a  rois  ar  chvmer  esylld     ...  / 

farnv  myw  neii  farw/n  /  y  mann  Tiidilr  Aled 

7l7  Cowi/dd  brvd  yn  ymojyn  bafodd  J  llithrodd  y  gerdd  dafawd 
Och  fair  deg  och  veu'w  digeirdd     ....  g 

gwirionedd  nag  avr  yna  gr:  ap  gronwy  gethin 

719  Cwynfan  gwraig  am  fod  i  gwr  yn  ddig  wrthi 

O  ddiiw  ond  trist  oedd  nad  rhydd h 

i  dig  ym  ai  dwg  ymaith  gr:  ap  Jeuan  ap  lle'n  vychan 

721  Y  verch  wenn  fawr  i  chanol  &c.  (see  MS.  145,  p.  728)  i 

722  Marwnad  gweryl  Mechain. — "  Mechain  "  is  altered  later  into 

"  me(r)ch"  and  {Madawg  o  Aber  Tanatt)  added. 

Mis  drwg  a  fv  mhowys  draw k 

Taler  i  haelder  i  honn  Gvtto  'r  glynn 

724   Cowydd  o  ddioddefaint  fessv  grist 

Gorevddiiw  gwiw  a  redded I 

praffed  gras  y  profBwyd  grym  gwervyl  mechain 

726   Cowydd  canmholieth  y  lyn  /  cwmwd 

Ty  di  \^n  nid  dii  dy  liw m 

ag  oes  ith  ddynion  f  gyd  Morys  ab  Jeu:  ab  Eigion 

730  Marwnad  Elis  prys  mab  thomas  prys  o  bias  Jolyn 

Torrwyd  om  perllan  Tavrwaith     ....  n- 

^  lys  y  nefol  ]fessii  Thomas  prys 

733  Cow:  yn  gyril  bytheiaid  i  ddal  gwraig  (cf.  MS.  145,  p.  748) 

Gwae  ui  chlyw  eddyw  iddi     ....  a 

hai  hai  hai  /  ai  hi  y\v  honn  Davydd  ab  Edmwnt 

735  Marwnad  howel  ap  llywelyn  ap  howel  a  Mallt  i  wraig 

Y  ddevddyn  a  ddiweddwyd p 

heb  wanhav  Meibion  howel  Rhys  pennarth 

738  Y  celynllwyn  coel  Jownllwyth q 

lief  y  gwanwynt  11  wm  dd:  ab  gwilim 

739  Marwnad  Robert  o  degaingl  afvfarw  o  glwyfy  node 

Y  gwr  marw  a  gar  morwyn  r 
ddavar  dy  fedd  er  dy  fwyn 

dyn  a  dorai  diiw  /  n  /  daros 

dy  ddiben  yw  dydd  heb  nos  Tuder  Aled 

742  Mar:  Dd:  ap  ho':  o  aber  ceiriawg  afufaiw  o  glwyfy  nodef 

Briwodd  y  Tir  brevddwyd  Tig     ....  s 

yno  tyf  enaid  dafydd  Tuder  Aled 

744  Marwnad  hen  Domas  Conwy  o  lannehvy 

Ba  herwydd  na  bai  hiraeth     ....  < 

conwy  Jiangc  i  nefoedd  >»         « 


150t  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   144. 

747  O  haelder  /  fy  ner  /  fy  niidd  / a 

nr  y  sydd  ag  a  fydd  fyth  [D.  ap  Gwilini] 

748  Owdle    [sic]  a  harodd  Mr  Rolant  Vychan  J  gwneythur   i 

M'"  mawnsel  oedd  yn  gwmeythu  yn  y  cwrt 
gwae  galon  gwirion  A  garodd  dwyneb     .....  b 

y  galon  wrol  a  glan  eiiiiav  Sion  tud[yr^ 

751  J  fetch :   Rhoes  y  Tad  oi  stad  ysdedwydd  o  rodd     .     .     .       c 
vn  a  roes  fessu  yn  Rassiissaidd  Anon 

754  Owdl  farwnad  Rys  ah  Sion  o  lyn  nedd 

Vn  eissiav  golav  rhag  alon d 

-weithian  oi  eissiaii  waeth  yn  issaf  Jerwerth  fynglwyd 

757       A  mi  y'n/  gla£  er  mwyn  gloywferch e 

nag  wy  dioer  nag  Ederya  D.  ab  gwilym 

759   Cowydd  i  ofyn  galy  gaseyn 

Sawl  yw  o  ddyn  isel  ddad / 

fendith  ddiiw  fvann  daith  wedd  Edmwnd  Prys    • 

762  Cowydd  i  ofyn  Siac  anap 

Deed  wyr  mens  ar  deid  ir  mor g 

dial  i  guwc  diawl  ai  gwnaeth  Bohert  leiaf 

764   Cowydd  i  ofiin  gicalch 

Pwy  biav  llyfrav  pob  Uys h 

Dros  yr  hawg  deiroes  yr  hydd     howel  [op]  U'n  aby?  mod 

766  Cywydd  gwraig 

fy  Swydd  ys  mwy  na  blwyddyn •  i 

ni  wnai  /r/  byd  nyni  ar  benn  Davydd  ap  Edmwnd 

767  Cywydd  y  lliain  wyneb 

He  g-wnn  gael  oil  i  gan  gwlad     .....  k 

nes  i  fed  yn  safadwy  Ch-uff  hiraethog 

769  Marwnad :  Davydd  vab  gwilym  ynoy     ....  I 

bellach  naw  digrifach  nef  Gruff:  griig 

771  il/ar.- ^r;  ^ry^f  .•  Trist  oedd  ddwyn  trais  cynnhwynol     .     .     .    m 
ir  nef  gwiw  oedd  ef  y  ddaeth  Dafydd  ap  gwilym 

Cywybeu  ymeysson  khwng  D.  ap  Gwilym  a  Gr;  Gbyg. 

773       Eres  i  ddavydd  Oeryn n 

Angav  am  Arfav  Morfydd  grii:  gryg 

77-t       Cynfydd  cerdd  biin  o  vnflwydd o 

tal  am  i  wawd  talm  oi  waitli  D.  ap  gwilym 

776       Gwall  dwys  niwn  ai  gwell  dim p 

sereu  br'en  er  i  gorri  Grilff:  gryg 

778  Graist  [sic]  y  plwy  ai  grest  ai  plyg q 

nim  dawr  gwyn  ap  niidd  im  dwyn  D.  ap  gwilym 

779  Da\'ydd  pann  nad  y  difar r 

Mogel  nid  mi  Rhys  Meigen  griiff:  gryg 

781       Gi'iiffydd  gryg  ddirmyg  ddarmerth s 

ssyrad  fydd  sa  yr  hoyd  film  D.  ap  gwilim 

783  Marwnad  Syr  Rissiart  hen  Jarll  JPenfro 

Dawns  y  bowls  doe  /  ^i  /  ysbeiliwyd t 

Jarll  oi  fab  arall  a  fo  Gvtto  /  r  /  glynn 


THE   RED   BOOK   OF   NANNEY.  151 

786  Dau  gywydd  i  ofyn  main  nielin  a 

Y  diilwyd  baiin  daliad  bydd 

a  mawr  glod  am  war  glediou  Morys  ab  Jfan  ah  Eincjian 
789       Tryssor  y  manngor  y  niedd S 

wyth  oed  yr  hain  ith  iad  Rys  Tudw  Aled 

791   Cywydd  morwyn  Jfangc  oedd  Aeres 

Y  fvn  ^vaugc  fwyn  ofeg c 

er  diiw  mawr  wared  i  mi  "  Ai  carodd  ai  canodd  " 

793  Cowydd  prydydd  ni  allai  glera 

Myddylio  rwyf  mav  ddoliir     ....  d 

a  thro  tra  fynych  a  thrig  Gruffuth  cenric  coch* 

796       Cerais  yn  fab  cwrs  iawn  vedd  foes     ....  e 

cyd  naid  im  enaid  a  mi  >        jfvan  llwyd  or  towyn 

798  Ctvyn  am  yr  hen  gymdeithion 

Gwae  a  rydd  nid  gwreiddiach f 

yn  i  plith  yn  vn  oi  plaid  Thomas  Price 

802  Marwnad  J  S ion  philip  prydydd  ag  Athro,  1620. 

Rhodd  dduw  gwyn  yw  rhwydd  ganv     ....  g 

y  mlaen  llei  caem  lawenydd  Edm:  Prys  Archiagon 

805  Nag  Egor  fy  nor  faen  wryd  &c.         J.  Ph:  iw  roi  ar  i  fedd  h 

806  Cowydd  i  ofyn  ceyliog  bronfraith 

vn  diiw  gad  hwnn  ni  ad  gam     •     .     .     .  i 

a  daed  yw  diiw  ai  diylch  Griiffiidd  hiraethog 

€09-96  Blank. 


MS.  145.  ILrvYR  Gwyn  CoRS  Y  GEDOL.  Paper;  11|  x  7 inches; 
766  pages  ;  in  good  preservation ;  early  xvnth  century  ;  bound  in  white 
vellum.  The  contents  are  all  poetical,  about  two-thirds  consisting  of 
Elegies  and  Eulogies  of  historical  interest.  Wiliam  Cynwal  is  specially 
well  represented  in  this  MS.  which  is  written  in  three  different  but 
contemporary  hands  ;  pages  193-280  are  earlier  than  the  rest  of  the 
MS.,  while  hands  A.  and  B.  are  frequently  found  on  the  same  pa<re. 
The  name  of  "  ^ohn  Garnons  "  is  the  only  one  in  the  book. 

i.-viii.  Index  of  subjects. 

1  J  Ddvw :  M  #naeth  dvw  tad  greadvr     ....  k 

Mair  a  thrigaredd  i  mab  Master  Sion  Kemp 

3  jfr  Cybydd :  Mae  vn  o  barch  mewn  y  byd     ....  / 

drwy  bawb  ag  fo  mendia/r/  byd  Sion  Tudur 

8  Oesbraff  wyd  Siessws  ysbryd  gwiw  ddofydd     .     .     .     .     m 
da  fy  i  Sioseb  dy  fyw  Siesys  Dafydd  ap  Gwilim 

9  Nid  dwrdiaw  o  {vel  byrddiaw  llei)  daw  vn  dydd    ,     .     .   n 
a  fydd  ir  neb  a  feddwo  Lewys  Glyn  Cothi 

1 1   Cyngor  dvwiol  Rhys  Prichard  ficar  llanymddyfri 

Duw  gwyn  drymed  yvi  fynghalon     ....  o 

ar  i  penav  i  fynd  ir  pwll  Rhys  Prichard 

17       Rhyfedd  na  ffwyllwn  /  rhyfig  na  ddaliwn      ....  p 

yna  y  dielir  /  pob  anwiredd  Dd:  Ddti  o  Hiraddig 

*  (Rhys  ap  Cynrhig  goch,  1420,  mcdd  y  Dr.  Davies  ) 


152  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   145. 

22  Pan  oedd  Saint  senedd  trefi     ....  a 
na  chan  ddyn  diddym  erchi                                            Anon 

23  Gioasgaredd  [sicl  Taliessin 

Ni  bydd  byracji  y  daith  er  gwrando  yfEeren     ....       b 
A  fynno  drigaredd  gweddied  ar  Alpha 

24  Nid  oes  un  gair  gwir  lieb  foliant  ir  drindod     .     .     .     .  •     c 
Na  chais  fyned  i  nef  er  sidan  a  fforffa-^vr  || 

25-26  are  missing. 

27  ||a  fo  ariio  haint  ai  fwrw  /n/  hon  (1.  3)     ...     .  d 
y  gorffenych  gav/r/tfynon.    See  MS.  144, p.  126.  Titdur  Aled 

28  Bustl  y  Beirdd :  Cler  o  gamarfer  a  arferant     ....  e 

am  gablu  ^esu  ai  wasanaeth  Taliesin 

29  Carol  ymddiddan  rhwng  Cydwybod  hen  a  Gorhydri  ifanc 

Nos  da  ir  glanddyn  ifanc  cry  /  pie  cae  wr  letty  heno  .  .  .  / 
ni  chei  di  waeth  ua  minne  || 
33-34  aie  missing.     See  MS.  143,  p.  297,  for  beginning  of  next  poem.       * 

35       llPvraf  wawd  tafawd  ti  fedr     ....  g 

Tu  nef  telir  /  cerdd  ni  clielir 
yn  lie  gwelir/yn  11  iw  golav       If  an  ap  Rhydd:  ap  If:  lid: 

37  Carol  y  Natalig 

Sydd  o  bobl  yn  y  byd  ai  bryd  ar  fod  yn  llawe[n]    ...  A 
na  cliawn  farw  .gai'w  ged  nes  na  gweled  ^esu  ||  (1.  40) 
:i9-40  are  missing. 
41        ||Gwyn  dy  fyd  di  y  gwann  difai  pe  rhon  i  rhai  ath  fooio  .  .    i 
ag  yn  crio  ar  y  gwan  am  gaffel  rhan  oi  weddi  [4  11.]  Anon 

h.       Crist  ai  wryd  ar  y  groes  yn  wir  a  roes  ^ddewon     .     .     .  h 
dwg  dy  bobl  at  dy  Saint  i  gaftel  braint  angylion  J.  Prys 

4:2  Carol  Gwirotta :  ILyma  wirod  Mair  yn  dyfod     ....        I 
cymred  iddo  Rownsi  fEas  Anon 

43   Carol :  Fo  ddoeth  Mair  wen  i  dre  Pethlem     ....         m 
fo  ddoeth  ir  byd  olevni  „ 

43       Myfur  oer  yw  /r/  ymofyn     ....  n 

gida  Mair  i  gyd.     Amen.  D'  Sion  Cemp 

46   Coio:  yn  erhyn  braint  delwe  S^c. —  Gr:  ap  Ifan  ap  ll'n  Fychan 
ai  cant  [«jc],  Sion  ap  Rob:  ap  Rys  ai  cant  [sic] 
Be  da  oedd  y  byd  a  fv     .     .     .     .  o 

a  nef  in  eneidie  yn  61 

49  Cowydd  am  ddichellion  Stat  y  byd 

Adrodd  gwir  drwy  ddvw  a  gaf     ....  p 

ymrown  i  droi  mawr  yw  /r/  drwg  jffan  Tew  brydydd 

52       Cyffesaf  wylaf  mi  welais  y  baych/o  bechod  a  ddygais  .  .  .  q 
i  goffa  ]fesu  mi  a  gyffesais  Sion  Mowddwy 

54  fr  byd :  Dis  yw  /r/  byd  os  arbedwn     ....  r 

ar  dda  mwy  ond  ar  ddvw  mawr  Sion  Tudur 

57  Psalm  xv. :  Arglwydd  pwy  ar  ogledd  pell s 

felly  sydd  ag  i  bydd  byth  „         „ 

58  J  ddnw  :  Da  yw  Jesu  dywysiad t 

ar  bren  croes  i  brynv  cred  {| 
59-62  Theje  pages  are  missing. 


THE   WHITE    BOOK   OF    CORS    Y   GEDOL.  153 

63  Ymddiddan  rhwng  y  hardd  ar  benglog,  attributed  variously 

to  Sion  Cent,  Jev:  dv  ap  dd:  ap  Ow:  and  Gtm  ap  Sefnyn 
Ijddwg  i  archuddio  dy  dal     ....  a 

Y  Benglog  .  Mi  a  fum  nid  af  mwy  i  fedd  .     .     . 
dvw  ni  chair  bowyd  iach  ym  /  D'  Sion  Cent 

64  Coivgdd  i  goffau  talu  degwm 

Dynion  a  roes  dvw  enyd b 

o  gwnair  fo  gaifE  nef  ai  gwuel  D''  Sion  Kent 

67  J  ddnw  :  Pwy  yw  'r  gwr  ar  power  i  gyd c 

wi  dvw  yngod  an  diengo  Ra^'  ap  Rhobert 

70  Coioydd  i  S.  Pedr  o  Rosur  ym  Mon 

Am  yr  un  Sant.  mawr  yw  jvj  son d 

i  nef  wen  i  ni  fyned  Lewys  Daron 

72   Coivydd  i  ddelie  Crist  ym  Mangor 

T  ddelw  dost  ar  osteg e 

drwy  nerth  y  tair  Mair.     Amen         IL'n  ap  Gtm  ap  Rys 

74   Cowydd  i  dduio  a«  ir  byd 

Estudio  y  ddwyf  was  didwyll / 

aswy  a  mi  ^esu     amen  Mastr  Sion  Cent 

78    Coivydd  yn  erbyn  Cybydd-dra  y  byd 

Yma  ir  ys  yn  ymrysou g 

fy  naf  a  roddo  nef  yn  Mredydd  ap  Rys 

80  if  dduw  nef  ir  addefa  &e.    See  p.  2Ss  below.  h 

81  Marwnad  TLywelyn  Goch  amheirig  hen 

O  Ddvw  teg  ai  ddaed  tyn i 

pr}-dydd  i  borth  paradwys  folio  Goch 

84  Owdl  far wnad  Doctor  Sion  Gwyn  (IL.D.)  .  ^574 

Och  fron  ysgyrion  os  gorwedd k 

dvw  ai  ckv  fry  dvg  ger  i  fron  Sion  Phylip 

89  Moliant  Edwart  HI. 

Edwart  ab  Edwart  gwait  gvvyr / 

doeth  mab  da  dvw  ith  enaid  jfollo  Goch 


Cywtbeu  AC  Odleu  by  Wiliam  Cynwal. 

91    Oiedlfol:  Wm:  Hughes  Escob  ILa7ielwy:  ar  y  2Ifmesur  13^6 

Pwy  /n/  dad  drwy  gariad  rbagorol m 

athro  gorav  a  tlirwy  garriad 

95   Owdl  foliant  Morys  Wynn  o  Wyder  .  is6g 

Hydd  Gwedir,  gedir  yn  geidwad n 

a  rydd  dvw  gadarn  i  hydd  Gwedir 

98   Owdl  far:  Elisa  ap  Morus  or  Clenenav  yn  Efionydd  .  1511 

Oer  fydd  nos  a  dydd  diweddv o 

yn  ol  yn  i  byw  i  ail  ni  bydd 

102  Oicdl  foliant  Morus  ap  Elisau  or  Clenenati  .  1511^ 

Morus  wyr  Morus  grym  wyrion p 

a  fal  Merion  ar  law  Morys 

105   Owdl  far:  Morus  ap  Elisau  ap  Morus  or  Clenenav  .  1373 

Gwae  Lawr  dayar  fawr  difvrio q 

i  gyd  wrandaw  mawl  gida  /r/  vndvw  mawr 


154  MOSTYN  MANUSCEIPT  .145. 

109  Oicdl  foliant  Sion  Lewys  ap  If  an  ap  Dafydd  o  Westiniog. 

Sion  pen  rhyw  Einion  rhanwr a 

ir  ^esu  sy  hael  hiroes  i  Sion 
112   Owdl  foliant  Rhisiart  Davies  Escob  Dewi  Myniw  .   1S68 

Duw  ner  cadw  biler  hil  Beli b 

eb  gvdd  ar  ^ad  Nudd  a  ro  dvw  ner 

116  Mar:  Marred  13  Rhys  llwyd,  mam  D^  Elis  Prys  .  1567 

Duw  hvyd  aeth  rhoi  bwyd  ir  bedd c 

ai   henaid  aeth  draw  i  law  dvw  Iwyd 

119  Owdl  foliant  Doctor  Tomas  jfdl  Siawnsler  Caer  Gaint  a  Dean 
yr  Artsus  iw  groesawi  i  IVynedd  .  1510 

Cai  ffyniant  vwch  cant  nerth  cynfedd d 

y  del  ho£E  yno  hoedl  a  ffyniant 

123  Owdl  foliant  Mr.  Parry  Esgwiar  o  Ddinas  Bassi  ,  15"11 

Harri  wj^r  Harri  wewyr  hirion     ....  g 

hynach  avr  pvrach  fo  Mastr  Parri 

126  Mol:  Edicart  ap  Roger  ysgwiair   0  Fodyling  yn  Rhuabon 

Penaeth  law  helaeth  lew  haelioti f 

wedi  yn  bevnydd  ai  ceidw  yn  benaeth 

129  Moliant  Ifan    llwyd   Dd:    ap   Sion  0   Nant    Manach  ym 
Malhoyd  .   1576 

Duw  tad  rhoes  ystad  o  stvdiaw o 

ag  iawn  ddawn  ofyn  gan  ddvw  nefol 

133   Owdl  foliant  pedwar  plwyf  Cwmwd  y  ILechwedd  isaf  .  1567 

Y  Bjecbwedd  Isaf  ai  hoU  wchion  bobl     .     .     .     .    .^  A 

vwch  0  ddvw  Jesu  ir  ILechwedd  Isaf 

137  Owdl  foliant  D'  Edmwnt  MevricA  Archdiagon  Bangor  .  157  3 

Doctor  Meurig  trig  trwy  eigion i 

dwg  yt  air  mowredd  doctor  Mevrig 

14l   Oicdl foliant  Rhys  Fychan  Esgr:  o  Gorsygedol      156g 

Ehees  Fychan  taran  oror •      A 

oes  hwy  fo  vcliod  i  Eys  Fychan 

144  Owdlfarwnad  Owain  ap  John  esgr:  0  Gaergai  .  1570 

Yn  iach  fawr  a  bach  ir  byd / 

ofer  yw  /r/  byd  gwae  fawr  a  bach 

147   Owdl  foliant  Sion  Lewis  Owain  0  Ddolgellav  .  157 2 

Sion  Lewis  iorys  ail  vriel m 

yn  -wr  grasvs  syth  hir  groesi  Sion 

152   Owdl  foliant    Leicys    ap    Owain    ap  Meiric  Esgr  .   1571 
Tir  Mon  /  Bron  deg  j  Bodeon 

Lewis  Caer  ynys  Loronig  yw re 

henwyf,  0  lawer  hj>n  fo  Lewys 

155  Owdl  foliant  Wiliam  Glyn  Esgr:  0  Lynlliwon      1570 

Glynlliwon  hyd  hyn  jvr  ty  anedd 0 

aed  ar  law  yn  llowiav^dr  o  Lynlliwon 

158  Mar:  Sian  gwraig  Tho:  Mostyn  merch  syr  Wm:  Gr:  .  1571 

Hyd  neuoedd  mae  bloedd.     ....  p 

Yn  aros  evrer  /  olvd  ynifer  /  yngwlad  nefoedd 

162  Mar:  Elin  Argl'es  Bagnol  merch  Ed:  Gr:  or  Penrhyn  .  1573 

Gwae  Arfon  a  Mon  maenol  Arglwyddi q 

gwae  wan  or  gvrfa  /n/  IL^n  ag  Arfon 


THE   WHITE   BOOK   OFCOKS   Y    QEDOL.  155 

166  Owdl  foliant  WoxKc  TLwyd  o  Woxol  Esgr:  .  ^575 

Pen  Gwynedd  mowredd  am  ai-ial a 

pwy  /n/  well  i  einioes  pen  holl  Wynedd 

169  Owdl  farwnad  TViliam  Mostyn  Esgr: 

TL&yv  gref  duw  o  nef  anafodd  Cymrv b 

dvw  egor  dy  lys  dwg  ar  dy  law 

173   Owdl  fol:  Wiliam  Lewys  esgr:  o  Brijsaddfed  yMon  .  15T2 

Eych  gyd  yn  y  byd  ag  y  bv  Adda c 

ti  yw  enw  y  byd  hyd  hyny  i  bych 

177  Mol:  Ed:  Almor  0  Faelawr  0  Bant  Jocyn  ysgr:   .  15']0 

Edwart  Almor  d6r  derwen  y  deyrnas d 

y  dyry  yt  eilmodd  Edwart  Almor 

l79  Owdl  fol:  3Ir.  Edward  Mangsel  o  Forganwg  ysgwiar  .  I06S 

Edwai't  Mangsel  sel  dros  haelion e 

draw  yt  am  iownswydd  Edwart  Mawnsel 

182   Owdl  foliant  Rowland  Bwclai  0  Borthamal  .  156g 

1  Rolant  Bwclai  i  rvwlio f 

glain  nod  bowioclod  Rolant  Bwclai 

185   Owdl  foliant  Wiliam  Hanmer  or  JFenns  .  156g 

Duw  drosod  ir  rhod  mawr  hyder g 

er  Uvdiaw  treiswyr  Haw  ddvw  trosod  Wm:  Cynical 


188  Owdl  foliant  Rhobert  Wynn  ap  Elisau  Bryncyr 

Yr  hydd  o  fionydd  cryf  vnion h 

a  ffedair  oes  hydd  fo'ch  dydd  'eh  dav  Huw  Pennant 

193  Marionad  Stan  v}  Syr  Wiliam  grvffydd 

Anwadal  yw  anwydav j 

Annedd   Sian  yn  hiiy  dduw  sydd  Wiliam  ILyn 

195  Marndd  Dd:  ab  feuan  (ap  Howel)  0  Lwydiarth  aiwraig 

Ni  bu  fyd  /i/  neb  o  f6n Ji 

rryngthyn  /  u  /  J-     vn  /n/  y  nef  Howel  Kilan 

1 96  Mar:  Lewys  TLwyd  o  gynlhaithwrn.  0  sir  drefaldwyn 

Oes  dim  olh  a  rroes  dvw  mawr I 

Amen  dvw  ai  myii  yw  dv  William  Ihyn 

198  Marwnad  John  Wyn  ap  huw  ofodvel — also  p.  518. 

Trawyd  oes  fal  tro  dis  fii     .....     .  „i 

Att  ^essii  nef  aed  sion  Wyn  Rees  Kain 

201  Mar:  Sibil  (vy  Sir  W.)  Gr:  {gwraig  Ow:  ap  Huw  0  Fodeon) 

Oer  oedh  gynt  arwydh  a  gaid ^ 

a  gair  naf  /  i  /  gor  nefoedh  W"  Kynwal 

Dwy  varwnad  Sion  Smyth  {Carnarvon) 

203  Yr  angae  nych  ar  ing  ri6d „ 

Na  dim  olh  ond  y  duw  mawr  Huw  ap  Ris'  ap  Dd: 

204  Dii  angae  taer  dynged  tost p 

eirian  ofeg  ir  Nefosdh  Morys  dwyfcch 

206  Marwnad  Jeuan  ap  Robert  Vychan  (p  Neugwl  .   I56g) 

Dyn  alardrwm  dan  Iwyrdrais  n 

egwan  wy  fi  ag  ja  jaj  fais     .     .     ,     ,     . 

dwg  /  n/  gwalch  diogan  ged  . 

ith  Nefadhaii  ath  nodhed  Morys  dwyfcch 


156  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   145. 

209  Martcnad  Tomas  Conwy  o  rryddlan 

Ba  herwydh  na  bae  hiraeth g^ 

Kouwy  jfauk  ir  nefoedh  Tudur  Aled 

211   Mar:  Howel  "  y  farf"  (ddv  o  fon  ap  H'n),  a  Malht  li  wraig) 

Y  ddeiiddyn  a  dhiwedhwyd 5 

heb  wanhaii  meibon  howel  Rhys  Pennarth 

213  Marwnad  Sion  Br[ic'\ynog 

Djdli  liwyr  /a/  diwedh  hiraeth c 

pryd  Sedh  paradwys  idho  Wiliam  Ihyn 

215  Marmiad  Wm:  ap  Robert  a  elwyd  sersiant  y  glyh 

Y  Brud  oedh  y  bwrid  &s ^ 

trigaiedh  ir  tarw  gwrol  Sion  Brwynog 

217  Mar:  EUn  i'5  huw  ap  Ric'  {gio:  Rob*.  Wynne)  or  Wernjawr 

Beth  a  dal  drwy  ofal  draw e 

Enaid  Elin  ydolwg  WiUiatn  Kynwal 

Marionadeu  Huw  ap  Rissiart  ap  Dd:  o  gefnlhanfair  .  1.5Q0 
219       Im  hoeri  /  i  /  niae  hiraeth f 

heidhiw  /  n  /  hiiy  dhiiw  mae  hiigh  hael        Hiiu)  Pennant 
222       Pa  alar  olh  pa  waewloes g 

aed  /  i  /  aer  hiigh  oed  y  rrawg  ffuw  Machno 

225       Troea  fawr  tref  a  fwriwjd fi 

kadwai  /  n  /  tir  kedw  enaid  hiiw  Sion  Phylipp 

Marwnadeu  ir  vnryw  icr  at  wraig  Annes  .  15g2 
228       Gwae  wir  fardh  pie  i  gwyr  fyrdhiaw  ....  i 

Ihe  Annes  syn  Ihaw  Anna  Sion  Philip 

231       Och  lyn  /  n  /  f  ach  lawenydh k 

yn  Ihyniaeth  y  Ihawenydh  Huw  Pennant 

23-1       Lhyn  wenn  fy/n/lhawen  vnwaith / 

TQ  fyw  oi  math  nef  ai  medh  Rissiart  Philipp 

236       O  dhiin  ^essii  dhewisawg m 

Anf  onodJi  nef  /  i  /  Annes  Huw  Machno 

239  Marwnad  Syr  Oicain  ap  Gwiliin 

Trwm  ar  Ja  y w  tramwy  /  r  /  6d     .     .     .     .  n 

J  trig  adhysg  tnigwjdhawl  Wiliam  lhyn 

241   Mancnad  Griiffydh  Madryn  hen 

Y  gwv  gwyu  ywch  gwyr  gwynedh     ....  o 
sydh  ■nr  f\"th  oeswT  a  fo                                   William  Lhyn 

244  Marwnad  Margred  Salisbri 

Mawr  ywr  g<^n  mawr  ir  gweiniaid     ....  p 

Ivwenydh  yr  ail  einioes  Hutc  Machno 

247  Mamad  Sion  Wyn  ap  Tomas  Gruffydh  o  Benyherth  .  I5~i6 

Bii  oer  adwyth  bar  ydoedh q 

ai  ar  ran  diiw  'y  'rya  dydh  William  lhyn 

250  Marwnad  Oicain  Gruffydh  ab  morys  o  jifioHgdd 

Pa  ryw  dhirnad  prydh  oemi r 

breiideg  i  fro  bsiradwys  Morys  Dicyfeeh 

253  Mancnad  moricyit  j^ank 

Af  o  le  a  fii  lawen * 

i  h^s  yr  AngylesaQ  Johm  Philipp 

255  Marwnad  Margred  Wmphre  o  ffastelhmareh 

Trees  duw  gwyn  oer  trist  gwae  ni < 

Tw  henaid  gwyn  hoewdeg  wedh  Jfory*  Dicj/fech 


THE  WHITE  BOOK   OF   GOES   Y   GEDOL.  167 

258  Marwnad  Hilw  Gwynn  Bodvel :  Anno  :  -/6o6  : 

Dydh  a  roes  diiw  oedh  resyn a 

Ihwydha  in  ^eirll  y  dhaii  /  n  /  61  Ehils  Kain 

261  Mar:  Tomas  Rolant  a  wnaed  yn  Mr  o  amser  hyn  idhofarw 

Mae  yn  Va^n  i  lawer  dyn  da h 

ar  gwyn  i  bawb  rrag  na  bo  Sion  Philipp 

264  Mar:  D'  Vachan,  Arg:  Esgoh  o  Lyndain  :  1606 . 

Mawr  yw  /  r  /  och  am  wr  a  wn c 

a  ro  i  ni  gymro  /  n  /  i  61  John  Philipp 

268  Marwnad  Katring  ferch  william  ap  Sienkin  or  Plus  newydh 
{yn  Arfoti,  gwraig  Risiard  ap  Robert  np  Mredydd) 

^  chwi  ^fank  o  chofir d 

da  i  hyn  fo  diiw  yw  henaid  William  Kynwal 

270  Marwnad  Robert  Karreg 

Gwae  ni  bawb  wrth  gowain  bar     ....  e 

^essii  hael  ai  ras  helaeth  Huw  Pennant 

272  Marwnad    i  Riis   ah  Sion  o   lynnedh   pan   oedh   ef  meion 
blinder  yn  Ihyndain  ag  yn  debig  i  golli  i  fowyd 
Pand  hir  na  welir  end  nos     ....  / 

o  bydh  byth  wrth  i  bodh  fo  Jerwerth  fynglvoyd 

21 5il_Maru}nad  Tudur  aled  gadairfardh 

Bwi-iwd  vnbardh  brad  enbyd g 

y  wlad  nef  eled  /  n  /  jaeh  Gr:  ab  ffan  Ihe'n  Vauchan 

277  Marwnad  Risdard  III.  a  dyfodiad  Harri  VII.  ir  goron 

Maer  goron  y  mrig  Eryr h 

Harri  sydh  hiroes  idho     "  Dd:  Ihwyd  ab  Ihe'n  ab  gr: 

279  {Marwnad  brenin  Harri  .  7  .) 

O  rhoed  daiiar  ar  Harri i 

Ihu  Ehissiart  Ihe  i  rroeson — f  left  unfinished 

280  Mol:  Wiliam  ap  Wiliam  ap  Gr:  ap  Robin  Cychwillan 

Y  Hew  uchel  or  llechwedd k 

dod  ddvw  /  n  /  borth  da  da  ddyn  byw      Leicis  Morganwg 

282  Mar:  Lowri  I'j  JVil:  Madog,  gw:  Owen  Glyn  .Abererch 

Trueni  aeth  trwy  Wynedd     .....  / 

i  gael  wyneb  goleini  Marys  Dwyfech 

285       J  dduw  nef  ir  addefa m 

drvgaredd  a  diwedd  da  {also  p.  80)  ffan  hrydydd  hir 

287   J  drafferth  y  hyd  am  yr  henffydd  ar  newydd 

]f  dduw  ,ir  wyf  weddiwr jj 

gair  dy  fab  a  greda  fi  Sion  Brwynog 

Englynion  y  10  Gorchymyn 

290  Na  chymer  vn  Uvn  yn  lie  y  gwirddvw o 

na  dim  a  feddo  nai  dir  Anon 

291  Na  char  gau  ddvwiav p 

dy  ddengair  y  dydd-angav  Sion  Brimjnog 

293  Y  Pader :  Nefol  dad  llawn  rad  llowia  &c.  q 

294  Yr  Aue  Maria :  Grasol  mair  ydwyd  dy  groesi  &c.  r 

295  Y  Gredo  :  fr  tftd  yn  wastad  estyd  i  credaf  &c.  s 

296  Y  Gredo:  Credu  ir  wyf  bennaf /ir  tad  gorvchaf/&c.  f 


153  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   145. 

298  J  ofyn  Paderau  i  Farged  f}  Wiliam  ap  Wiliam  o  Landygdi 
dros  Sieffrav  ap  Sion 

Y  fercli  wyl  freichie  Olwen a 

oed  y  main  ar  iad  meinir  Syr  Bafydd  Trefor 

300  Dioloch  am  Baderav  i  Ritiart  Cyffin  Deon  Bangor 

Mae  vn  ceidwad  mewn  cadair h 

modfeddav  meydwy  fyddaf  Grjtto  /  r  /  Glyn 

302  J  Grist:  Y  gwr  addfwyn  gwiw  a  roddeJ c 

Pardwn  duw  rag  pvrdan  dig  *Gwervyll  Vychan 

305  J  Feuno  :  Teg  yw  synwyr  blinlwyr  blaid d 

amen  a  fEand  yno  i  may  Hhys  Goch 

309  7  Grist :  T  gwr  eglur  ei  groglith     .....  e 

duw  mawr  rhag  pob  dim  arall  Sion  Brwynog 

312       Duw  creawdur  nef  a  dayar / 

duw  gwyu  ath  law  dwg  ni  ith  wledd         \Mred:  ap  Rys 

314       Tydi  ddyn  tew  dy  ddoniav g 

i  ddyn  i  dda  ai  ddvw  /  n  /  ddig  Master  Sion  Kemp 

316       Arglwydd  duw  cylwydd  yw  celi     .....  h, 

ynvw  irioed  yno  ir  ym  Lewis  Glynn  Kothi 

330  Bustl  y  byd :  Agor  nef  wrth  araith  laf ar     .....  i 

cnociwn  ne  gvrwn  f  agorir  Sion  Tvdvr 

332   Yfarn  :  Rhyfedd  yw  'r  byd  rhyw  fodd  beth     ....        k 

llawn  Uawn  o  bob  dawn  a  da  Sion  Kent 

336   F  Cyrtie  :  Duw  sy  /  n  /  ben  nid  oes  neb  vweh    ....       I 
yn  egr  ai  pyrsav  /  n  /  weigion  Simwnt  Fychan,  isgif 

340  Byrdra  bowyd :  Pand  angall  na  ddehallwn m 

ar  Haw  honao  ir  Uywenydd  Syr  Dafydd  Trejor 

343   Cowydd  i   Eglwys   Sain   Deiniel  ym   Mangor   Fawr  pan 
adeiladodd  Totnos  Scevington  hi  o  newyddX 

Mae  /m/  Mangor  drysor  a  drig n 

pymtliecant  .  .  .  vgain  gida  saith  hygo     Syr  Dd:  Trevor 

345  Moliant  4  mab  Tiidur  llwyd  ap  Gronw  o  Fan 

Mynd  ir  wyf  i  Dir  M6n  draw o- 

Tre  yw  o  Fon  tra  fwy  fyw  Jolo  Goch 

347  Mol:  Sion  ap  Robert  ap  TL'n  ap  Morgan  0  Benllech 

Y  paun  difalch  pendefig p 

gen  hyn  fab  gwyn  a  hen  fych  Sion  Brwynog 

349  Moliant  Owen  Glyn  Dyfrdwy 

Dyma  fyd  rhag  syfryd  Sais ? 

pe  mae  swydd  pymoes  iddo  Jolo  Goch 

351  Mol:  Ro:  Salbri  {hen)  0  Lann  Rwst  brawd  SyrTho:  Salbri 

Masdr  Robert  rymvs  dribwrdd '' 

teiroes  hefyd  rysyfwr  Tudur  Aled 

353  Marwnad  Tomas  Conwy  o  Ruddlan 

Ba  berwydd  na  bae  hiraetb * 

Conwy  ifanc  ir  nefoedd  „        „ 

*  "  Verch  Howell  Vychen  0  Vechan  \_sic]  ymhoTTj'S." 
f  Attributed  also  to  D.  Nanmor. 

X  A  marginal  note  states  that  "  The  Cathedral  Church  of  Bangor  was  rebuilt  & 
ledded  &  ye  steeple  furnish'',  with  bells  in  ye  year  1527  by  Bp.ThoaasSkevington." 


THE  .WHITE   BOOK   OF   GOES   Y  GEDOL.  15^ 

■  Dwy  varwnad  i  Mr.  Tomas  Owen  o  Efionydd  .  158/f 

356       0  dduw  dad  ddowad  vdaw a 

yu  llvniaeth  y  llawenydd  Hvw  Pennant 

359       Bid  nad  llu  b^d  nid  llawen 6 

ynfyd  ym  nef  i  Domas  Sion  Phyli/p 

362  Moliant  ^  mab  Cynfrig  Trygarn  fab  Bleddyn 

Ef  a  Iwyddodd  o  Fleddyn c 

gwnnach  fo  i  chwithav  gannoes  Howel  Reinallt 

Maewnadeu  Sion  Gruffydd  o  Lyk  .  1585. 

365       Trwm  i  Ivn  tramwy  leni d 

anheddv  i  mae     yn  'hy  dduw  mavvr         JVilljam  Cynical 
367       Gwlad  Lyn  lie  hv  /  t  /  glod  lownaf    ....  e- 

dvw  Iwyd  Sion  GrnfFydd  o  L^n  Sion  Phylip 

371       Doe  gwae  wynedd  dig  ennyd f 

dro  gorav  i  drigaredd  Hugh  Machno 

374       Pa  angau  loes  pa  ing  lid q 

teled  oi  enaid  tilyth                                     *Morys  Dwyfech 
oil       Och  DOS  och  ddwynos  ocli  ddydd  ooh  forav  &c.  „         A 

6.       Pa  ryw  ddiliw  prvdd  alaeth j 

iarll  Wynedd  ir  llawenydd               Morys  Dwyfech  .   15S5 
382       Duw  a  oere»  dayaren k 

berl  naw  sir  ir  brevlan  Sion                                Sion  Tiidm- 
385       ILyn  oedd  mewn  Uywenydd  maith I 

yn  fynych  nef  yw  enaid  Bedo  Hafesb 

388       T  drindod  gwyr  fod  garw  fydd     ....  m 

draw  i  diriondir  dvw  ar  drindod  Hiiw  Pennant 


392  Moliant  i  Sion  Gruffydd  o  Lyn  .  155g 

T  Hew  enwog  holl  Wynedd b 

yt  draw  ganoes  drwy  gynydd  Wiliam  llyn 

395  Mar:  Dorothi  Mostyn  gwraig  Sion  Gruffydd  o  Lyn  .  15g^ 

I  mae  gwaedd  trwm  i  goddef    ....  o 

i  iawn  fro  aeth  i  ne  fry  Huw  Pennant 

398   Moliant  i  rds  y  frenhines  Elsbeth  .  15()4 

Duw  gadarn  fo  dy  geidwad     ....  p. 

y  Gymraes  deg  mawr  i  sdad 

ysdad  bell  ag  ysdod  b^r 

Elsbeth  wyt  odieth  Tudur 

brenhines  bvrwen  hynod 

bell  ei  chlaim  am  bwyll  a  chl6d     .... 

bo  yt  hap  a  bowyd  hir  Edwart  ap  Raffe 

402  Mar:  Sr  Nicolas  ap  Huw  Elis  person  JLann  Elien  ym  Mon 

Doe  /r/  ae  alaeth  drwy  ddwywlad     ....  q 

gwledd  olav  f'arglwydd  Elien  Tudur  Aled 

404  Moliant  Mr  Wiliam  Gruffydd  o  Garnarfon 

Y  dewrwych  host  or  iach  bvr     ....  r 

teiroes  ar  hap  yt  eryr  Huw  Pennant 

.•  , .  *  Morys  Dwyfech  =  Morys  ap  Ifan  ap  Eingon. 


160  MOSTYN  MANT7SCBIPT   145. 

407  Marwnad  Rhob:  Clidro  a  ladded  yn  y  Deheudir  drwy  dyh 
fod  gantho  fawr  gcweth  lie  nid  oedd  ond prinder.  Na 
bo  gwell  i  ddihenydd  am  i  weithred  ond  mwy  clwdd  inch  : 
jioed  gwir  fo.  Sion  Tudur  ai  cant,  ar  vn  jfordd  ac  i 
bydde  Clidro  yn  canv,  a  mwy  poen  a  gowse  yn  gwnevthyr 
y  Co[wydd]  yma  nag  vn  ar  a  wnaethe  er  moed. 
Aeth  yn  wann  darn  or  dernas     ....  a 

gorav  prydydd  fydd  ag  a  fy  Sion  Tudur 

410  Mar:  Wm:  Tomas  o  Gaernarfon  a  las  ynfflanders  .  ■I5$6 

Tir  Cymru  /  n  /  Uiwddu  aeth  pen  Has  mwstrio  ....    A 
caem  oi  ryw  vrddas  Cymry  i  werddon     Dd:  Goch  brydydd 
414  Mar:  Catrin  Mostyn  gwraig  gynta  Wiliam  Glynllifon. 

Troes  cur  a  bair  treisio  cof c 

dvg  i  nef  dan  i  deg  nawdd  W"  Glyn  llifon 

416  Moliant  M'  Roland  Fychan  mab   ac   aer  S'  Roger  Fychan 
0  Dalgarth  yn  Neheuharth 

Y  ciw  du  'mysc  coed  a  mel d 

ar  i  oes  a  ro  ]fesu  Wiliam  ILyn 

419  Moliant  i  S'  Tomas  Mostyn  pan  wnaed  ef  yn  Farchog 

Y  marchog  glan  mawr  yw'ch  glqd  e 
moes  dwyn  henw  Mosdyn  hynod 

pennod  y  fowrglod  hyd  fedd 

pinagl  a  thop  i  Wynedd  Sion  Tudur 

422  Marwnad  Rhobert  Wyn  o  Benllech  .  13g2 

Gwae  wlad  wen  gwae  Iv  dinas / 

i  bo  /r  /  tal  i  Robert  Wynn  Sion  Phyllip 

Marwnadeu  Wiliam  Mostyn  ,    13T6 
426       Mawr  wylwn  fal  mor  heli g 

Wiliam  yn  i  ddvwiolaeth  Simwnf  Vyehan 

428       Cwyn  am  wr  cenym  orig A 

ai  fab  hynaf  fo  benaeth  Lewis  Powel 

431       Y  da  a  anfono  dvw  /n/  fynych i 

fowyd  hir  a  nef  yw  tad  Wiliam  ILyn 

434       Bid  o  fewn  byd  a  fyno h 

llyna  y  fann  llei  mae  fo  Sion  Tudur 

439       Blin  yw  dan  blaned  wen  wyn / 

na  bo  ef  heb  nef  yn  61  „  „ 

442   Cowydd  cymod  Edmtvnd  Prys  Arcliiagon  Meirionydd 

Y  pielad  gamp  rywolwr m 

ywch  gann  hoes  Archiagou  hael  Sion  Phylip 

Dwy  var:  i  Morys  ap  Jfan  ap  Eingon  =  M.  Dwyfech  .   15^0 

446       Bardd  wyf  briw  a  oddefais  n 

am  yr  hen  fardd  mae  rhew  /n/  f'ais 

croesawed  yw  lownged  lys 

ion  dvw  mawr  enaid  Morys  Sion  Phylip 

449       Gwae  Wynedd  oil  gen  waedd  ddig  ....                     o 

nef  yw  ran  hyn  fv  i  rodd  Huw  Pennant 

452  Moliant  i  bvmmab  JLywelyn  ap  Hwlcyn  o  Fon 

Mi  a  wn  draw  mynd  ir  wyf p 

einioes  fawr  yn  ynys  r6n         Rhys  Goch  Glyn  Diofrdwy 

454  Marwnad  Gruffydd  Hiraethog 

Duw  ir  oedd  awdvr  addysc q 

golav  nef  ir  gwiwlan  nvdd  Wiliam  Cynwal 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    145.  161 

456  Marwnad  Gruff t/dd  Hirnethog  ag  ynte  yn  fyw 

Duw  a  roes  y  llif  dros  y  Uawr a 

yn  i  feddiant  nef  iddo  Syr  owain  ap  Gwihm 

459  Moliant  Einion  ap  Gruff ydd  o  Chwilog  yn  Yfionydd 

Y  post  hardd  happvs  dewrddoelh b 

ar  bawb  a  fioed  hir  i  bych  Grvffydd  Gryg 

462  Moliant  Jeuan  ap  Einon  [ap  Gruffydd) 

Pwy  sy  o  ry w  /  n  /  passio  /  r  /  iaith c 

saf  ith  garn  sy  fyw  ath  gar  Jolo  gogh 

464  Moliant  ^  mah  Jevan  ap  Einion 

Ifan  ddewr  o  fewn  i  ddawn d 

yn  gadernid  ir  byd  byth  Owain  (or  Ifan)  Waed  ta 

466  Moliant  Madog  ap  Jevan  ap  Einion 

Pa  wr  ar  happ  pvr  y  rhawg e 

bid  for  ssad  bedeiroes  bydd  Owain  Waed  ta 

468  Mol:  S'  Howell  {y  f myall)  ap  Gruffith  ai  wraig 

A  welai  neb  a  welaf f 

a  cbadw  /r/  gaer  iecliyd  ir  gwr  Jolo  Goch 

470  Mar:  Madog  ap  Howel  ap  Madog  ap  Ifan  ap  Eingan 

Mae  oer  gawdd  Mair  ai  gwyddiad     ....  g 

oi  fawr  rwysc  i  nef  ir  aelh  Howel  Reinallt 

473  Moliant  ir  Frenhines  Elsbeth     See  p.  398. 

Wrth  ddarllain  coelfain  celfydd h 

gwaed  rhwyg  bron  icli  cadw  rliag  brad  Sion  Tudnr 

477  Moliant  Doctor  Hwyd  a  wnaed  yn  Escob  yn  Rhuddlan 

Rhwydd  diball  i  rhodd  dvw  byw i 

vwcli  oes  hir  chwechoes  Aron.  Rhys  Cain 

480  Mar:  M''  W,  Tomas  o  Garnarvon.     See  p.  410  above 

T  maes  trwm  i  osod  traw k 

dvg  fyd  gwych  yn  /  r  /  degfed  gwr  Sion  Phylip 

484  Moliant  Tomas  Madryn 

Vn  gorau  duw  an  gweryd I 

at  henaint  bwy  i  tynych  Wiliam  Kyn 

487  Owdl  foliant  Harri  Rowlands  Escob  Bangor 

O  -wedd  aurhydedd  rhedant ,« 

o  iawn  bwyll  yno  awn  bellenig  Hinv  Hyn 

490   C.  cymmod  rhwng  S'  Rich:  BulMey  ai  Arglwyddes  o 
ran  iddo  drwy  waith  athrod  i  gyrry  hi  o  ddiiortho.j 

Tr  Eryr  mawr  ar  warr  Mon n 

ir  gwiiion  a  ro  gwared  Richard  Griffyth  ofdn 

494  Oivdl  foliant  Owen  ap  Sion  o  Gaergai 

Tr  hydd  tragowydd  tir  a  gai o 

na  bom  awr  hebod  fy  hynod  hydd  Wiliam  llyn 

498  Oicdl  farwnad  Sion  Wyn  ap  Huw  o  Fodfel 

Pa  erwin  ryflin  oer  floedd p 

A  grynnai  /r/  boll  fydoedd  Morys  Dwyfech 

501   Cow:  dychan  a  wnaeth  Sion   Gruffydd  o  Lyn  i  Forys 
Dwyfech  i  wnethur  iddo  ac  i  Forys  Davies  a  W.  S. 

Sion  Grniffydd  ais  hen  grafFwalch q 

oes  awch  a  bar  eisiav'ch  bod     Morys  ap  Jfan  ap  Eingan* 

*  to  wnaethai  Fprys  gowjdd  or  blaen  dros  Torys  Davies  a  Wiliam  Spicer  o 
GamarfoD  i  ofjn  cwch  gan  Sion  Gruffydd  .  yn  yr  hwn  meddai  Sion  Gruffydd  ni 
ddarfasai  iddo  osod  i  lawr  ei  hoil  gampav  ef,  nar  gwyr  dros  pa  rai  yr  oedd  yn  canv: 
a  hyn  oedd  achos  y  cywydd  vchod. 

e    S7J30.  L 


162  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   145. 

504  Marwnad  Dafydd  llwyd  ap  Richart  o  Rosgill  .   ISgS 

Beth  siwraf  byth  sy  wiriach a 

or  dwr  yn  iach  ar  drwn  nef  John  Philipp 

508  Mar:  Marged  v}  Humffre  ' Amhredydd  o  Geselgyfarch 
gicraig  Wm:  Gruffydd  Sion  o  Gastellmarch  .   15§3 
Troes  duw  gwyn  oer  trist     .....  b 

yw  henaid  gwyn  hoendeg  wedd  Morys  Dwyfech 

511   Manvnad  Rolant  ap  Robert  o  Fylltheiirn  .  l6lO 

Gwae  fl  wrth  gofio  awen c 

yn  fyw  /  r  /  ail  nef  i  Kolant  Sion  Phylip 

515  Mar:  Mari  gwraig  Wm:  Fychan  mab  Risiart  mab  Rhys 

25  inches  are  left  blank  under  the  above  heading  by  the  copyist. 
First  existing  line  : 

dwyn  a  wnaeth  oer  sowaeth  son d 

dvw  merodr  enaid  Mari  Sion  Phylip 

518  Marwnad  Sion  Wyn  ap  Hugh  o  fodfel 

Trawyd  foes  mal  tro  dis  fv e 

At  Jessv  nef  aed  Sion  Wyn  Rees  Cain 

521  Moliant  Dafydd  ILwyd  Abad  Glyhegicestl 

Mae  /  r  /  henwyr  ai  meirw  /  r  /  heini  / 

hynaf  oil  heno  wy  fi 

tri  ag  vn  trwy  wiw  gennad  Gytto  j  r  j  Glynn 

523  Moliant  Huw  ap  Risiart  ap  Dafydd  0  Gefnllanfair 

Pen  tyrfa  pwy  /  n  /  antvrfawr g 

chwi  a  hon  hoedl  a  chynydd  Wil:  Cyntoal 

526   Oiodl  far:  Huw  ap  Sion  ap  Ho:  ap  Gruff:  o  Lann 
Fendigaid  yn  Sir  Feirionydd   .   1511,. 

Ochhii'  He  cerir  cowiriaid h 

am  na  adawe  ddvw  ynn  Huw  yn  hir  Wiliam  TLyn 

529  Oiudl  far:  Rob't  Gr:  ap  Rob't  Fychan  o  Dalhenbont 
yn  Yfionydd  .  Plas  hen 

Dibeu  dirfawr  ben  darfv  /  r  /  byd i 

Dvw  ban  ddoetb  diben  ei  ddydd  Morys  Dwyfech 

533   Ymddiddan  rhieng  y  Ihoynog  ar  bardd  am  fyw  yn  y  byd 

Dydd  da  ir  llwynog  or  ogof ^ 

ffarwel  rhaid  yin  ffo  ir  allt  Huw  llwyd 

536  A  few  notes  in  a  later  hand  on  Biblical  Geography  :  Yn  Assia  y  creawyd 
Adda  &c. 

537-39  Elank. 

540  Owdl  0  daith  Clidro  i  Lwdlo 

A  fynwch  chwi  Owdl  cerddor     ....  ^ 

ni  chafodd  fawr  yn  ei  cyfer  Robin  Clidro 

542   Ymbil  am  genav  milgi  i  Edward  llwyd  0  Lanelwy 
dros  Hinv  llwyd  1606  Hydref  6. 
Dydd  da  fynghar  howddgar  hy     .     .     .     .  »» 

ymhob  rhith  yt  bendith  bid  H.  Salesbury 

545   Owdl  farwnad  Cath  y  Bardd 

Gwrandewch  Owdl  chwithig     ....  '"' 

nid  a  fi  fyth  i  gar  caws  Robin  Clidro 

648  Owdlfal  y  doeth  y  Bardd  i  Fachymbyd  or  diwedd 
(pages  549-50  are  misplaced  and  follow  554). 

Gwilie  a  ddoeth  arna/a  ffawb  aeth  i  glera     .     .     .     •       " 

Caehir  ap  Edwin  gynt  nis  medre 

ag  ni  wyddiad  Noe  hen  banner  fynghampe    Robert  Clidro 


EDMUND  PEYS  AND  W.  KYNWAL. 


163 


dd^n 


/ 


552  Owdl  dychan  rhi/w  Berson  caled 

Eurbarch  im  gyfarch  Escob  hael  addwyn     .... 
einioes  ir  Escob  ai  dadwisge  Robert  Clidro 

553  f  Critd :  Mai  a  ddaeth  yma  i 

dwyn  ]ffan  hyd  y  nefoedd 

^faii  np  ll'yn  fyclian,  tad  Gruff:  ap  Jfan 

555       A  fynnwch  chwi  owdl  cerddor  &c.     Seep.  540  aJoue. 

TLyma  gywyddav  a  fv  rhimig  Edmwnd  Prys  mestr  o  gyl- 
fyddyd,  a  Wiliam  Cy[nwal]  prydydd  parchedig  :  a 
chynnyrch  y  gerdd  [a]  fv  fal  hyn.  Meistr  JPrys  a 
ganodd  gyw[ydd'\  dros  Rhys  Wynn  ap  Jefan  ap  Gr:  i 
[pfyn]  bwa  yw  gwan  gan  W.  Cynwal,  'rhmn  a  nacaodd 
or  hwa  fal  i  mae  yn  dangos,  [y»  ol^  vnwaith  i  addo. 
557  Cyfarchaf  lie  caf  orchest  .... 
teiav  Rhys  ar  tir  yw  hoi 

560       Y  cavw  j  n  j  y  maes  cry  /  n  /  y  mwng 
wrth  y  fi  cai  i  werth  o  lawl 

563       O  bu  feirdd  heb  ofer  ddysg     .      ,     . 
y  bwa  i  Rys  heb  or  wad 

566       Y  carw  eglwys  careglavr     .... 

gad  ymy  fyw  /  n  /  gydymaith 

568       Eirchiad  wyf  arch  wawd  ofer     .     .     . 
cariad  ym  cywira  d'air 

%^2       Y  prelad  hap  ryw  haelion     .... 
oen  da  i  ddvw  mae  /  n  /  dy  ddewis 

575       Y  cowirfardd  cu  arfod     .... 

a  thrafais  nag  wrth  ryt'el 
579       Y  gwr  Hen  doeth  gor  Uanw  dysc     .     . 

fwa  sicr  am  fy  sieced 

583       Mae  rwyd  wiliam  wr  dilyth     .     .     . 
ar  did  felly  bid  ar  ben 

587       Ymofynyd  dylyd  dysc     .... 
tanfa  llwgr  tyn  fy  llygad 

591        Gwn  ddcall  gvvinwydd  awei; 
Uymwalch  raor  ddall  a  Homer 

594       Y  Mud  ynom  adweinir     ....  p 

bid  towys  hap  yt  oes  hir 

597       Wiliam  evrfardd  lem  arfod     .     . 
dydd  drvd  a  diwedd  y  drin 

601       Y  ddihareb  oecld  eirwir     .     .     . 
no  ad  y  gan  yn  dy  god 

604       Croch  wyd  Wiliam  crych  d'eiliad 
taera  gwas  rheitia  i  ti  /  r  /  g6d 

608   Yr  ail  gwrthatteb  yn  gofyn  i  Wiliam  Cynwal  pain  na 
ddoe  i  dy  Syr   Edtoart   o  ftaen   y  ddav   ddewisol 
farnwyr  Symwnt  fychan  a  Sion  Phylip. 
Cenais  arch  lie  cawn  i  senn 
c&n  a  fagodd  cenfigen 
ymryson  mawr  a  csyd 
dygn  boen  a  dig  yn  y  byd 


Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynwal 

Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynwal 

Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynwal 

Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynwal 

Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynwal 

Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynwal 

Ed:  Prys 
W.  Cynical 

Ed:  Prys 


164  MOSTYN  MANUSCKIPT   145. 

dylyn  gwawd  dielw  yn  gwaith 
dol  Gynwal  gadel  gweniaith     .... 
rhy  gv  oedd  rhowiog  i  iaith     .     .     . 
rhwygai  sail  rhy  gas  eilwaith 
OS  gwr  o  nertli  nis  gwyr  neb     .     .     . 
ag  OS  dyn  dangos  d'wyneb.  Hd:  Prys 

611    Y  trydydd  givrthatteb  yn  dangos  fal  y  methodd  W.  C. 
atteb  dym  ar  y  gerdd  fal  i  dylae  SfC. 

Y  bardd  vwcliel  berw  ddychan  a 
brawycbvs  gais  brochvs  gan     .... 

dangos  ym  well  os  gelH 

dyr'd  i  faes  de-wi-  ydwyf  i  Ed:  Prys 

614  f  Hob:  Wynn  o  Benllech  yn  llyn  i  ofyn  casseg  winav 
rygyngawg  tros  Sis'  Ow:  ap  Wm:  o  Ardydmj 
Pwy  ywr  vndyn  heb  prinder     ....  b 

Robert  Wynn  hir  barhaed  d'  oes  Sion  Phillip 

619  Jofyn  tarw  i  S''  Tho:  Mostyn  dros  Gapten  Rich:  Gwyn  a 
Hirdrefaig  ym  Mon—ioWos  627-28  are  misplaced  after  620. 

Y  llowydd  mawr  gallvog    ....  c 
Yr  hydd  avr  a  rliodd  oi  werth                 Huw  Roberts  lien 

623  f  ofyn  Bwa  i  Ddoctor  Rolant  Bwcle  o  Sii-  Fon  dros 
Morys  Wyn  ap  Sion  Wyn 

Y  brelad  iownfab  Rolant     ....  d 
a  saif  tra  fo  Bwa  a  saeth                           Gruff:  Hiraethog 

625  J  ofyn  Miliast  i  Robert  Wyn  ap  Cadwaladr  or  Foelas 

dros  Sion  Wyn  ap  Cadwaladr  or  Rhiwlas  * 

Di  annerch  ydiw  anael     ....  e 

ni  bydd  hwn  heb  fenswn  fyth  Will'm  TLyn 

628  f  ofyn  alarch  ac  alarches  at  Gadwaladr  Piers  o  Faesmor 
dros  Sion  Owen  ap  Sion  Wyn 
Pwy  byw  eryr  pybyrwych     ....  / 

trown  fawl  tra  uofio  alarch  Sion  Phylip 

632  f  ofyn  Moelrhon  i  Sion  Wyn  ap  Utiw  o  Fodfel  dros 
Wiliam  Glyn  o  'Lynllifon 

Y  post  ir  liappus  dewrwyn g 

ni  cheisiwn  ^wQ:\\  vwch  Sion  Wyn  Hugh  Pennant 

635   Cowydd  i  ofyn  milgi  i  Lywelyn  ap  Morgan  o  Benllech 

ILyvvelyn  a  Uiw  alarch h 

am  llowrodd  im  Haw  arall  Howel  ap  Reinallt 

637  f  ddiolch  am  bavn  i  Ddafydd  ap  Tomas 

Hir  hoedl  a  fo  im  heryr i 

mowrdeg  yw'r  anrheg  a  roes  Deio  ap  jffan  ddv 

639  jf  ofyn  crwth  i  Gyttyn  Mredydd  gan  Wiliam  ap  Dafydd 

Mae  ciw  dinerth  cydenog S 

diles  Uei  bo  /  r  /  nydolig  Howel  ap  Tudur  ap  Jocws 

641   Cowydd  y  ceiliog  Bronfraith 

Y  ciw  eurwisc  cowiriaith I 

ir  gwr  hwn  ar  gaer  hynod  Hugh  Ceiriog 

644  7  ddymyno  ir  fronfraith  lonevthr  cyngm-  H.  C.  and  daicad 
i  Lyn  o  waith  H.  ap  R.  ap  Dd:  o  Gefn  llanfair. 

Y  fronfraith  gyfiownwaith  gan m 

was  mwynwych  er  fy  smonaeth       Hugh  ap  Rich:  ap  Dd: 


MOSTYN   MANUSCBIPT   145.  165 

647  Cowydd  moliant  ir  haf  a  dycJian  ir  gayaf 

Prudd  ydwyf  parodd  adwyth a 

ai-  foliant  yr  haf  eilwaith  Hmv  Ceiriog 

649  Cowydd  am  fod  yn  esglvso  y  Beirdd 

Gwae  ni  /  r  /  beirdd  gan  air  y  byd b 

mwy  o  avr  siwrl  ym  bwrs  Sion  John  Tiidur 

652  /  ofyn  Meini  meline  dros  S.  Thomas  Gr:  (p  Benyberth) 
gan  ei  gefnder  Eob't  ap  Eisiart  Gr:  o  Sir  Fon. 

Y  dulwyd  baun  daliad  bvdd c 

a  mawv  glod  am  war  gledion  Morys  Dwyfech 

655  J  ofyn  march  i  Jthel  ap  Robert  (o  Degaingl  Archdiagon) 

Rlio  duw  mawr  y  march  blawr  blwng d 

boyd  gwir  bowyd  hir  i  hwn  Jolo  Goch 

658  /  ofijn  march  i  Sion  Gr:  o  Lyn  dros  S'  Hiiw  Brwynog 

Canaf  i  Benmeistr  cannyn c 

iddo  ef  ond  e  foi  dwg  Gruff:  Hiraethog 

659  J  ofyn  march  dros  Lewys  Syttwn  gan  Dd:  Abat  Glynegwestl 

Fwy  sy  ben  yn  passio  byd f 

dan  bwyth  devnaw  o  bethav  Tudur  Aled 

662  Hen  gerdd  i  nattvrieth  y  misoedd 

Mis  ionawr  myglyd  dyffryn g 

a  dderfydd  yn  nydd  ag  yn  nos  Aneurin  Waiedrydd 

664  hen  gerdd  .-  A.  wawdrydd  ai  cant  vtputo  claruit  A.  D.  55'0  (!) 

Eira  mynydd  blin  y w  /  r  /  byd h 

ydiw  /  r  /  ifanc  heb  gyngor 
667  Sen  gerdd  :   Taliessyn  ne  Maerglaf  ap  llywarch  ne 
Aneuryn  wawdrydd  ai  cant 

Eira  mynydd  gwyn  tir  pant t 

cysgcd  bryn  gwar  a  thalar 
670  Hen  gerdd  :  sensibly  not  attributed  to  any  one. 

Eira  mynydd  caled  grawn k 

ymhob  diogelwch  diiw  fydd 
672  jf  ofyn  Bivcled  i  m'  Rob:  Pilstwn  dros  i  gefnder   IVm: 
ap  Jemxjont  llwyd 

Y  dyn  ir  bael  dan  avr  hen     ....  I 
i  ddav  bwyth  o  dda  bathawl      Morys  ap  Jef:  ap  Enigan 

Q*Jb  J  ofyn  !i  o  ychen  gan  If.  ewythr  dros  Rys  ap  Dd: 

Pa  wyr  a  gawn  yn  llawn  Uythr     ....  rn 

ich  nai  daw  ychen  dvon  _  Tudur  Aled 

677  J  ofyn  Ceiliog  bronfraith  ai  gaeds  [cage]  i  m'  Huw 
Pilstwn  0  wrexam  dros  m'  Jfans 

Vn  Duw  gad  hwn  ni  ad  gam n 

a  daed  y  w  duw  ai  diylch  Gruff ydd  Hiraethog 

680  Prognosticasiion  doctor  Powel  archesgob  Cymrv  pen  vstvs  gwyr 
lien  Cymbrv.     Proctor  or  ddwy  gyff'raith  clochydd  cyff- 
redinol  dwy  esgobeth  llanelwy  a  —  a  llawer  o  swydde 
■     yida  hynny  fal  y  gwyr  Elis  o  fottrydan. 
Fo  fydd  hen  flwyddyn  ryfedd     ....  o 

Ag  fellv  i  terfyna 
or  llufr  hwn  y  rhan  gynta 
chwi  a  gewch  y  rhan  arall 
o  waith  y  Doctor  coegddall 
o  hyn  hyd  wyl-fihangel 
o  bydd  byw  y  Doctor  Powel  Sion  Tvdur 


106  MOSTYN   MAJSUSCRIPT    145. 

687  C.dresHuw  Conwy  iofyn  march  gan  Rys  ap  Meredydd 

Ehodd  fraisc  a  gair  heddiw  fry     ....  « 

Huw  Conwy  farch  hacknai  fydd  Robert  leiaf 

689  fr  hohi  civtta  heb  fieng  na  rhawn  sef  meddw\d]od 

yr  hobi  a  ddiharebwyd     ....  i 

garw  drwst  er  a  gaer  drosto  Sion  Mowddwy 

691   Cowydd  moliant  i  wlad  Lyn 

Ty  di  LJ^n  nid  tv  dy  liw     ....  c 

ag  oes  ith  ddynion  i  gyd  Morys  ap  Jfan  ap  Eingan 

694  C.  dros  D'  Elis  i  ofyn  meini  meline  gan  S.  ap  Rys  o  F6n 

Sir  fon  wen  os  rhifwn  wyr     ....  J 

cair  pwyth  y  main  cair  peth  Diwy       Gruffydd  Hiraethog 

697  J  ofyn  March  i  Dd:  Abad  Aberconwy   dros  Kynfrig 

Y  pen  yroed  y  pun  ar  liwn     ....  e 
gofyn  dy  wr  ar  gefii  dy  orwydd                        Tvdvr  Aled 

699  J  ofyn  March  i  Dd:  ow.-AbadA.  conioy  drosJV.Ch:-  or  Penrhyn 
Pwy  sy  ben  Powy,s  o  barcb     ....  / 

gofyn  or  Penrhyn  y  pwyth  Tvdvr  Aled 

701   Diolch  am  fivcled  i  Lewis  Man 

Caer-lydd  fydd  a  cliylfyddyd     ....  g 

ar  gledd  avr  Arglwydd  ^rien  Rys  Nanmor 

704  f  ofyn  cyllell  Ddafydd  ap  Howel,  cyllell  Forestwr  i 
dorri  carw,  Baslart 
ILe  cyfiug  dvrfing  derfysc     ....  h 

OS  gwyr  hon '  ysgarrio  hydd  Rhys  Goch 

706  y  ofyn  cledde  i  Jfan    Gh'iffith  dros  Jfan  ap  Robert 
(ap  Mredydd)  o  yfionydd 
Vn  wyt  ai  arf  a  wna  tes     .     .     .     .  i 

e  i  hvn  fo  ladd  ^n  ne  ddav  Jfan  ap  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

708  J  ofyn  cledde  a  dagar    i  Robert   Wyn  or  Berthddu 
dros  i  gefnder  Robert  Wyn  o  Havod  y  Maidd 

Y  Gwyn  ifanc  iawn  afael     ....  h 
a  dager  ith  gefnder  gwyn                             Risiart  Kynwal 

711  Diolch  am  Gyllell  Mr  ne  Baslart 

ILywelyn  eryr  gwyr  gwych     ....  / 

o  achos  fy  llawenychv  Jolo  Goch 

'714  J  ofyn   Gwn  i   Gadwaladr  Prys  or  Rhiwlas   dros 
Wiliam  lloyd  o  Benniarth 
Mae  Haw  fawr  am  holl  feirion     ....  m 

Wiliam  ai  tal  annod  teg  John  Philipp 

717  Cowydd  merch  falch  oiffryd 

'  Mafanwy  liw  liod     ....  n 

Mair  a  drwg  mawr  ir  drych  Madog  Benfras 

718  Vrhalenwr:  Cefais  o  IToywdrais  hydravl     ....  o 

henw  serch  y  fireinferch  fvrn  „  „ 

720       Herber  o  ddail  gwiail  gwiw p 

yn  dvw  oil  bob  dyn  i  nef  Dd.  ap  Gwilim 

722       Rho  duw  farf  rydew  foresc q 

lie  noeth  mwy  no  Uwyn  eithin  Jolo  Goch 

724  Jr  Eiddiges  :  Mawr  genym  awr  ag  enyd >' 

i  bwrn  ai  dyco  yw  bedd  Grnff:  Hiraethog 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   145.  167 

726  Cotvydd  merch  a  roese  ir  bardd  gae  bedw 

Caru  /  r  /  wyf  is  cwrr  yr  allt « 

cae  da  yr  hawg  pe  caid  ai  rhoes       Dauydd  ap  Edmwnd 

728  Merch  feichiog  :  Y  ferch  wen  fawr  i  chanol l> 

y  hi  yn  y  modd  liwnw  mwy         llywelyn  ap  D'd  Fychan 

729  C  Merch:  O  dduw  ond  trist  yw  nad  rhydd  ....  c 

i  dig  ym  ai  dwg  ymaith  Gr:  ap  ffan  ap  IVn  Fychan 

730  Merch  briod :  Y  ferch  fwyaf  a  gara  fi d 

dy  gael  oedd  raid  i  gelv 

dy  ganmol  ferch  vrddolwaed  e 

dy  fodd  dos  a  dyddiav  daed  Tudur  Aled 

732  Merch  briqd  .    Y  ddya  fwyn  o  ddawn  fonedd     ....        / 
pared  fvn  enaid  ^  j  n.  I  iach  „  „ 

731  Cowydd  yn  gyrru  y  Ceiliog  Mwyaloh  yn  llattai  at  ferch 

Y  prior  du  per  air  dwys g 

ganv  yn  ol  a  genais  H^l^o  Keiriog 

736       Y  wawr  feinael  avr  fonwes     ....  h 

tro  ym  einioes  tra  mynych  .,,  „ 

738       Y  fun  dlws  benfenaid  lS,n i 

i  gyd  ai  mawl  gida  mi  Hugh  ap  Richard  ap  dauid 

740   Cowydd  dychan  merch* 

Clodforais  mewn  cled  faenawl k 

gwyl  faddev  ond  gwael  fowddyn 

744  Cowydd  merch  a  aethe  yn  lleian  ag  iw  llenn  hi 

ILe  gwn  gael  oil  i  gan  gwlad I 

nes  i  fed  yn  safadwy  Gryffyth  Hiraethog 

74i'7       Y  ferch  wedi  /  r  /  glod  a  f v m 

a  roddo  i  ti  wra  teg  Robin  Ddti 

748  Merch  briod :  Gwae  ni  chly w  eddyw  iddi n 

hai  hai  hai  ai  hi  yw  hon  Dafydd  ap  Edimvnd 

751  Tri  ffeth  mawr  i  tra  hoifir o 

o  fin  hon  byddwn  fyw  yn  hwy  JLoivdden 

752  Cerais  dan  hiic  o  eurael ^ 

or  ail  nef  ar  "ol  yn  nyn 

Howel  Swrdwal  neu  ffan  ap  ll'yn  fychan 


Cywybeu  by  Davyb  ap  Gwilim. 

754  Y  Ciliog  serchog  i  son     ....  q 
adrodd  a  ganodd  o  gerdd 

755  Pwyntiav  afrwydd  drwy  /  r  /  flwyddyn     .....  r 
yn  dowyll  i  ni  yn  diwedd 

756  Y  Cylynllwyn  coel  iownllwyth s 

er  Uef  a  gwanwynwynt  Uwra, 

757  Hyder  i  gwelaf  hil  indeg t 

Ag  annerch  dy  hvn  genyd 

*  Imperfect;  11.  17-18   and   41-42  are  cut  off  by  the  binder;  there  is  a  blank 
pace  at  tlio  end  without  signature.    « 


168  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   145. 

758       My  fi  sydd  devnycld  dig 

i  bydda  o  gwybyddir  D.  ap  Gwilim. 

760       Dydd  da  yt  gog  serchogfwyn     .     .     .     .     , 

dygwn  y  ferch  deg  iawn  fain 
762       Cardda  was  cap  [car]  ddewiswyrdd 

nid  yfydd  neb  ond  ffor 
764       Kho  Duw  yn  n^^n  rhaid  i  ni 

yn  ochor  y  maen  ni  cbara  mwy 


MS.  146.  Cywtdeu  and  Odleu  from  the  Glo^ddaeth  Library. 
Paper;  11|  x  7|  inches;  510  pages  ;  written  mostly  in  two  hands — 
(a)  pages  1-22  ;  335-406;  410-33  are  written  in  an  archaic  style 
in  the  early  part  of  the  xviith  century  ;  (h)  pages  23-85;  101-33; 
151-303  belong  to  the  last  quarter  of  the  xvith  century  :  other  parts 
of  the  MS.  are  later  additions,  except  the  vellum  leaf  (pp.  305-6). 
Parts  of  this  MS.  are  stained  and  the  margins  of  the  pages  covered  by 
hand  (6)  are  in  many  places  much  injured  by  damp.  Bound  in  vellum 
and  labelled  "  Gwaith  yr  hen  feirdd  Cymreig."  It  bears  the  names 
John  Eogers  (p.  3)  ;  Thomas  Owen  (p.  236)  ;  Thomas  Edwards  of 
the  poj'ish  of  yflon  Llanrwst  (p.  307)  ;  Eobert  Williams  (pp.  462  and 
509)  ;  John  Davies  (p.  508). 

Page  1.  Drvdwas  ap  treffln  mab  bre[nh]in  denmark  a  gafas  gan  i 
wraig  dri  edcryn  llwch  gwin  a  hwynt  awnaent  beth  bynag  ar  a  archai 
i  meistr.  ag  a  bwvntied  maes  Ewng  arthvr  a  drudwas  a  neb  ddyfod  ir 
maes  ond  nhw  ill  dav  A  gyrv  i  adar  or  blaen  a  wnaeth  drvdwas  a  dovdyd 
y  kynta  addel  ir  maes  ag  fel  iroedd  arthur  yn  mynd  fo  ddoeth  chwaer 
drvdwas  oedd  ordderch  i  arthvr  ag  ai  Arthur  ir  maes  o  wllys  da  ibob  vn 
o  honvnt  ag  or  di[wedd]  fo  ddoeth  drvdwas  ir  maes  gan  dybio  ladd  or 
adar  arthur  yn  i  arch  Ag  ai  kipiodd  yr  adar  ef  ag  ai  lladdasant  ag  yn 
entyrch  awyr  i  adnabod  a  naethant  a  disgin  ir  llawr  drwy  nethvr  oernad 
dostvra  yn  y  byd  Am  ladd  drvdwas  i  meistr  ag  y  mae  kaniad  adar  liwch 
gwin  ar  danav  a  wnaed  yn  yr  amser  hwnw  i  gofifav  hyny  ag  o  hyny 
ykafodd  llowarch  hen  y  destyn  i  ganvr  englyn  hwn  : 

fo  gafas  drvdwas  i  drin  nod  angall 
ai  dynged  yn  erwin 
vrddol  o  freiniol  frenin 
laddodd  adar  gwar  llwch  gwin 

h.  pyinthegkant  foliant  gorfoledd  vnion 
onid  pymtheng  mlynedd 
hari  wyn  hir  o  wynedd 
aeth  vwch  law  talaith  a  ehledd 
c.  llyma  rinweddav  i  keiliog  :  Myfi  a  goda  fy  denydd  yrhain  a  elwir  avr  fentyll 
i  gvro  f ynghorflf  i  gyffroi  f y nghalon  i  wsnevthu  dvw  &c .  ystyffan  fardd 

d.     ymhall  am  honn  /  ywr  dall  ar  donn  &c.  Anon  e 

4       dydd  da  ir  llwynog  or  ogof    .... 

ffarwell  rhaid  yw  ffo  ir  alld  {hugh  lloyd)  f 

7  Kow:  y  krasv  pan  losgodd  dd:  ap  gwilym  odyn  i  dad 

pell  i  kerddais  i  geisiaw g 

am  karthen  din  drosben  draw  D.  ap  gwilym 

8  Kowydd  i  ofyn  tarw  howel  if  an  ap  Rhys  gethin 

howel  ewybr  hil  ifan ^* 

beth  tra  theg  o  bwyth  tri  tharw  ifan  llwyd  hrydydd 


drvdwas  ap  treffin  tria  diwrnawd 
gan  drallawd  ag  erddin 
adwy  awnaeth  ef  gysefin 
adar  ai  lladdodd  Uwcli  gwin 

3.  Mil  affedwar  kant  er  maint  fvr  oed 
tair  affedwar  vgaint 
pan  ddoeth  rhisianl  gard  gowraint 
drydedd  yn  i  fowredd  faint 


MOSTVN   MANUSCRIPT    146.  169 

1 1  Owdl  i  syr  rys  ap  fomas  pan  oedd  yn  glaf  marchog  vrddol 
or  gardas  avr 

drogan  yfran  yrwyf  hwn  i  ben a 

i  oes  draw  ganoes  darogenwcli  rhys  naiimor 

14  Y  kae  bedw  :  Manylgae  fy  mvn  eilgoed b 

i  vn  ai  tal  mewn  oed  tydd  Dd:  ap  edmivnd 

15  pwy  yw'r  gorav  piav  r  garon c 

dan  i  nawdd  fenaid  i  nef  Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

16  da  i  Ihiiiodd  duw  dvll  iownwedd d 

amen  ag  ni  ddvnai  mwy  „         „ 

17  kredaf  i  naf  o  nefoedd     ....  e 
amen  ag  nid  rhaid  vn  mwy                                  ,,         „ 

19  oesbrafE  wyd  iessv  ysbryd f 

da  fv  i  sioseb  dy  fyw  siessvs  „         „ 

20  hanfo  well  i  ti  henferch g 

kymell  ana  hi  r  kymod  „         ,, 

21  dyfed  a  syned  am  symyd h 

i  Ivddias  hoedl  fo  leddir  „         ,, 

23       II  ymddiriedwn  /  yw  fawl  kredwn i 

5fvor  gwynedd — a  fragment.  Dauid  ap  Edmund 

25  Englynion  by  deio  ap  ifeuan  dv  pan  lerthododd  wadd  ar  nos 
ynydolig  j  ag  i  gorfv  amo  ddyfod  i  west  gan  vaint  yr 
eira.    "  nid  gwir,  sypyn  kyfeiliog  "'in  hand  (a.) 

mab  kadarn  kadwaladr  kydwelydd k 

a  chwedi  delych  /  tra  vynnych  trig  deio  ap  Jeu:  dv 

27   Owdl  ir  tywyssog  llyioelyn  a  las  ymvallt 

lias  Hew  ffraw  braw  bryd  addas I 

gwenwlad  nef  poed  addef  iddaw 

gniffyth  ap  Rynach  a  llowarch  hrvdydd  y  moch 

30  Kowydd  i  Owain  tudyr  "  sy  yngharchar  ynghaer  Ivdd  " 

Gwddom  dewi  ag  odde m 

yn  Rydd  i  benn  mynydd  men  Jeu:  geihin  ap  J.  ap  lleision 

33  Barnad  Jiowell  ap  ll'n  o  von  a  mallt  i  wraig 

Y  ddevddyn  a  ddiweddwyd n 

heb  wanhay  meibion  howel  Rys  penarth 

36       Y  byd  drwg  i  bedwai*  bann o 

adref  i  wlad   nef  yn  iach  Howel  Swrdwal 

39  Oiodl  i  Rys  TVyn  :  O  Arvon  ivon  ar  vrys  naf    .     .     .     .      p 

rrvgl  glod  rrys  gorvod  rros  ag  arvon        Dd:  ap  Edmund 

42   Owdl  i  ddavydd  o  dowyn 

Dewis  wyd  wr  llwyd  ar  holl  wyr     ....  q 

A  roi  doed  o  iessv  ner  hyd  y  dewissvd    Davydd  nanmor 

46  Barnad  i  Rys  o  dowyn 

Dyn  wy  ni  chais  bod  yn  wych     ....  r 

dros  gof  betai  deir  oes  gwyr  Deio  ap  fetian  dv 

49       dvw  dvw  i  ble  Ir  awn  ai  dowyn  ai  ble 
mae  yma  bla  o  dridyn 
mae  gan  rvffydd  vevrig  y  gwdyn 

John  owain,  sion  ^van,  o  evthyn  C   ab  dauidd  Vychan  o 

tri  a  i  ddiawl  fel  trai  i  ddvlyn  |     l^nn  ar  nos  uyuolig.) 

tri  xnWi  Uedr  tri  lleidr  llyn  J 


{Howel  Traiosnewydd 
aikantymhlas  grufFydd 


170  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   146. 

50       Pwl  vydd  kerdd  pob  ovevddyn     ....  a 

dos  ir  nef  dy  siwrnai  yw  Dio  ap  leuan  dv 

54  [B]arnad  llevkv  llioyd 

llyraa  haf  Uwm  i  hoyw  vardd     ....  _  b 

A  chlikied  yn  iach  levkv  U'n  goch  ap  meyrick  hen 

59   Owdl  i  Rijs  Wyn  o  Dowyn 

Genav  r  glyn  towyn  minteioedd     ....  c 

yd  yr  aeth  i  glod  odiaeth  y  glyn  Dd:  nanmor 

62  Barnad  tnerch  i  Rys  JVyn 

Aeth  hiraeth  rrwng  bronn  a  thoryn     ....  d 

J  ddai  yddyn  /  i  ddvw  ddaeth  Dd:  ap  Edmund 

65  ich  llys  iach  llawn/wiw  rys  i  rawn  e 
a  gwys  a  gawn  /  agos  ged 

ath  vudd  wyth  vael/o  gvdd  yw  gael 

avr  rrvdd  wr  hael  /  rrwydd  y  rred  {Dd:  ap  Edm:) 

b.         O  god  that  made  botli  sea  and  land        |j,^^  ^^  Hugonem  Johne,    J 
glue  mee  grace  to  mend  my  hand  J 

66  Henaint  anghowraint  a  hiraeth     ....  g 
llywyo  uaf  hvuo  nef  i  henaint  (14)            Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

68       llyfr  dwned  dyved  dyvyn     ....  h 

llywia  ddawn  ieddaw  ddvw  yw  noddi  (15)       „         „ 

71       Arglwydd  kanon  swydd  vnnsyd     ....  i 

naf  mon  gloyw  ddeon  arglwyddiaidd  (16)         „        „ 

73       Da  ned  ar  i  wared  uev  oror     ....  k 

hwy  hvawdl  ofwy  vo  hoedl  Ivor  (17)  „         „ 

75  f  Rys  TVyn  :  [Anodd  bod  hebod  yn  ynys  dowyn]     ...         / 
II  Or  rhai  nith  garai  heb  wyth  gwirod     .     .     .  ' . 
ni  bo  deheubarth  na  byd  hebod  Dd:  Nanmor 

77       y  vvn  glaer  vwnwgl  evraid     ....  m 

(geri  ne)  gwir  yw  irai  fy  mod  (19)  Dd:  ap  gwilim 

79       y  kylynllwyn  kyvylion  llwyth     ....  n 

gyssylltedig  gair  brig  bron  (20)  „  ., 

81  Dros  eiddig :  Y  mab  ai  glod  ymhob  gwledd     ....  o 

Am  wen  yngod  mae  yn  angall  ||  (21)  ,,  „ 

83    Y  llavyrwyr  :  Mair  a  weryd  i  wirion     ....  p 

E,ai  yn  arwyr  hwyr  yn  wyr  da  (23) 

gr:  ap  ho'l  ap  U'n  vychan 

85  Barnad  syr  Rys  leuank  ab  syr  Rys  Hen  ab  Gurff: 
ab  Edeneuet  Vychan  (24) 
auamyl  i  chwardd  bardd  barwn     .     .     .     .  q 

ni  Eydech  gynt  ar  adwy     Gvrffydd  lloyd  ab  dd:  Capplan 

87   Of  the  Astrolabye — The  conclucons   of  the  astrolabye  (25) 
\\  tell    lowys    my    Sonne,   I   perceyue    well    by  eertayne  euidences 

ihy  .  .  .  .    /   abjlyte    to    lerne    Scyence,     &c ends:     and 

if   it   be   aftec  y"  middle  of  y'=  daye  set   the    degree    of  the  sonne 
vpon  the  west  side  : 

101       Goriichel  ddiiw  golochir  ym  hob  va     .     .     .     .  r 

Kael  ym  drigaredd  a  diwedd  da  (26)  "  Yspryt  diito 

ai  dyvot  a  thaliesin  ae  kant  yn  y  ddivrekawd." 

107       Y  prelad  iownfab  rrolant     ....  s 

a  salt'  trafo  bwa  a  sa[eth]  ffrvff":  hiraethog 


MOSTYN   MANUSCIUPT    143.  I7i 

108  Koioxjdd  i  Meistr  Rissiart  bwlkylai 

Fwy  biav  llyfrav  pob  llys     ....  « 

dros  yr  hawk  deiroes  yr  hydd  (27)       Owain  ap  ll'n  Moel 

111       Anodd  ym  vn  hawddatnawr     •     .     .     ,  6 

pettwn  i  mynwu  i  mod  (28)  Jolo  go} 

115  (da  yw  bendith  bardd  duvv  bendig  &c.)  Anon  c 

116  Merediidd  marvv  ir  ydwyd     ....  d 
Lon  a  gaiff  e  hvn  i  gwr  (29)                                    Uowdden 

]  18*     Deincryd  mawr  ar  led  an  kerain     ....  e 

a  havl  a  ddattotai  hyn  Dd:  ab  Gwilim 

119       karv  ddwy  kevaidd  yw     ....  f 

gydg^rsk  am  bvn  lygadgam  Dd:  bach 

ap  Madog  wladaidd  {=:Si/pi/n  Kyveilog) 

121       Robert  vwch  riwiau  Aber     ....  g 

ni  bwyf  rnsul  heb  venswn  Gutto  r  Glynn 

123  Marwnad  Thomas  (  ?  mab  Dd:  llwyd),  wyr  Rhes  wynn 

Angav  chwerw  ins;  i  chwarae     ....  h 

a  mair  os  eircb  Morys  Wynn  John  Phillip 

127   Y pwrs  :  Mawr  ywr  gair  am  y  tairodd     ....  i 

fr  gwr  hael  ar  wraic  ai  rroes  (31)  Gutto  j  r  j  glyn 

131       Mynnwn  ymod  mewn  vn  man     ....  k 

kwff  evraid  kaffo  hiroes  (32)  „  „ 

134  A  list  of  the  contents  of  some  manuscript  or  book  : — (1)  K. 
E,obyn  o  wa[itb]  G.  ab  Sevnyn ;  (2)  Kowydd  y  paun  o  wa:  dd: 
goch  ;  (3)  Kowydd  Tarw  duy ;  (4)  Kowydd  y  Tarw  Koch  o  wa:  bedo 
Philip  bach  &c ends  with  Ko.  73  (no  entry). 

135  Eniweidion  ni  wedynt    .    •    .     .  I 
J  mendith  i  blith  iplas                               Gwilim  ap  sefnyn 

b.      RRwyd  yngwin  rrydeg  ener     ....  m 

j  pwyth  yttwy  petliav  teg  K[ynvrig']  ap  dd:  goch 

136  Vn  ni  fflyg  er  ofn  a  fflaid     ....  n 
arch  ychen  ar  ichweched                                                 Anon 

137  trwyr  y  tir  ai  geiriav  teg     ....  o 
a  gore  rroi  ir  gwr  ai  rroes                       Bedoffylipp  bach 

138  Sion  vychan  hyd  forganwg     ....  p 
lliwydd  dillad  Hoy  ievaiuk                                  Rhes  Nanmor 

139  Orie  liydr  yr  hedydd     ....  q 
oni  el  i  hobel  heibiaw                                             dd:  ap  Gl'm 

140  Mon :  Nos  da  ir  ynys  dowell     ....  »• 

a  dwy  einioes  oi  dynion  L.  Glyn  Cothi 

141  Ydeilais  dy  vry  ar  vryn     ....  s 
na  chymmyn  am  ifun  fyth                                D.  ap  Gwilim 

142  Y  gwr  ar  war  y  garreg     ....  t 
nid  pab  onid  mab  mair                                          Gutto'  glyn 

143  Tydi  amner  tew  dwymnyth     ....  u 
y  graig  rrag  ofn  dy  grogi                          JLetvelyn  ap  moel 

144  Ro  dvw  goed  rrydeg  ydwyd     ....  v 
llawen  dal  Uv  oweu  deiliaid                             „                 ,, 

*  Pages  118-26  are  in  later  hands. 


172  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIl'T   146. 

145       Modd  elw  idd wy  ym  myddyliaw     ....  a 

or  rrai  teg  deg  yn  vn  dydd  Dd.  ap  G\rilim 

b.  Jr  hrawd  llwyd :  Howell  vrddedig  hoyw  walch     ....    5 
drwssa  brag  dros  i  bregeth  Jollo  go} 

147  A  mi  yn  glaf  er  mwyn  gloyw  ferch     ....  c 
nog  wy  dioyr  nog  ederyn                                Dd:  ap  gwilim 

h.       Melltith  kler  llei  klower  klych     ....  d 

ffiniwcb  ar  beddwch  ir  hain  Gruff:  ap  IVn  vychan 

148  Kanaid  ywr  nwyf  am  kynail     ....  e 
dy  obor  vydd  dav  gowyd  gain                         D.  ap  gwilim 

149  Y  mae  llwdwn  yoia  llednoeth     ....  f 
trwy  hafren  llowdden  a  i  llvdd                                       Anon 

CrwYBEu  AG  Odled  by  Gutto'r  Gltnn. 

151       Kaliog  wyd  yn  lie  i  koeliwn     ....  g 

gador  gasf  gidar  gostrel  GuttoW  Glynn 

153       Devbeth  a  red  drwyr  gwledydd     ....  h 

o  dda  yn  y  maes  ni  ddown  mwy 

155       SiefFrai  ayf  o  saif  ffraink     ....  "t 

keirw  yn  siep  ar  korn  i  sion    also  p.  250. 

158       dd:  o  braffwyd  broiFwyd     ....  k 

iw  Roi  yn  ller  henllys 

160       Howel  ni  chyska  haiacb     ....  I 

ni  chwarddaf  oni  cherddy 

163       llydan  oedd  gastell  Edwart     ....  m 

tevlv  nef  ai  talo  in  ion 

166       Mi  a  evtbym  i  mwythic     ....  n 

tir  fferm  gvto  ywr  fiored 

168       Dyn  wyf  doe  anafwyd     ....  o 

taled  diiw  ni  bydd  tylawd  hwn 

172       Ni  chair  vstvs  na  chrystiawn     ....  p 

dyro  i  sion  deiroes  hydd 

1 74  7"  siyr]  TV"  Vychan*  o  raglan 

Sal  Riigyl  seiliaw  Raglaii     ....  q 

gem  ar   wyr  holl  gymrv  wyd 

177  Mathewgoch:  Pan  sonier  in  amser  ni     .     .     .     .  r 

A  gair  Uoegr  ir  gwr  llawgoch 

181  Dwfr  awen  doe  viir  -wylaw     ....  s 
vv  einion  nef  iw  enaid 

182  Davydd  mae  r  beirdd  yn  dyvod     ....  t 
anhyfryd  byd  heb  dy  ben 

185       Gynt  yrhocd  yn  gyntaf  rrann     ....  « 

ail  i  mab  vo  William  ynn 

187       Pwy  sy  geidwad  teirgwlad  hy     .     .     .     .  v 

teiroes  ar  iad  rroesser  wynn 

190      Mawr  vv  howel  a  mevric  [Vychan]     ....  w 

aed  i  varw  i  dai  vevric 

*  "  syr  wiliam  tomas  y  gelwid  y  gwr — y  marchog  glas  o  went  y  galwe  rai  efo  "  in 
a  band  dated  elsewhere  1617. 


POEMS   BY   GTITTO'b   GI.YN.  173 

192       doe  darviiv  deav  dervynn     ....  a 

gadii  hil  yn  koed  i  hwn  Gutto'r  Glynn 

194  ^  syr  Howel  vab  Bat  ap  Jthel  {Jo  Lan  Elwy). 

Pwyr  mab  Uenn  ym  hob  llys     ....  b 

dan  vaen  dewi  nev  vevno 

19G  f  dd:  abad  glyn  egwest 

Mae  eryr  ar  hell  wyr  llean     ....  c 

yn  arva^  niaen  ar  vy  medd 

198  Marwnad  TLywelyn  Moel 

Mae  arch  yn  ystrad  niarchell     ....  d 

J  rwyl  a  nef  yw  i  rodd 

201  ^  syr  risiart  gethin 

y  mae  glaw  am  a  glowais     ....  e 

J  Hew  dv  oil  ai  diail 

203       Davydd  brydydd  a  browdwr     ....  f 

J  tri  'n  vn  ymylaen  tren  wyd 

206       J  gilio  rhac  i  elyn     ....  g 

trvcai'edd  ir  tri  gorav 

209       Y  dv  hydyr  or  dehevdir     ....  h 

kollaist  a  Hoist  kallest"^  wyd 

212       Dyn  traws  vvm  yn  dwyn  tros  vor     ....  » 

ar  i  gwisc  yra  i  gyscv 

215  J  Jeuan  ap  Einon 

Y  gwrda  o  gywirddb     ....  Jt 

^w  tvedd  vyry  hyd  dydd  vrawd 

218       Af  ddiiwssul  voddus  aelwyd     ....  I 

o  goed  ta  ef  a  gad  hwn 
220       Er  trevlio  pvnt  yn  Uvndain     ....  m 

nath  einios  natbaioQi 

223       Kwngkwerwyr  oedd  y  gwyr  gynt       ....  n 

karw  /r/  llai  ar  kwiigkwerw[r]  llwyd 

223       Awst  y  Has  ynghastell  i     .     .     .     .  o 

a  merch  Jarll  ym  reichie  hwn 

228    ,  Y  mae  llwdwn  yma  Ilednoeth     ...  « 

dyfredd  vo  diwedd  y  dai 

231       Maer  tarw  mawr  or  mortmeriaid  ....  « 

decved  wyt  dwc  vyd  iawu 

234       Tyvodd  gwr  at  ddavydd  gam     ....  j. 

Jarlleth  vwch  or  Hwyth  vchaf 

236       llwyddiaut  ir  tenant  or  tai     .     .     .     .  g 

wledd  yn  iessii  llwyddianvssaf 

239  Y  mesvr  hicn  .  .  .  ni  chanwyd  or  blaen 

Marw  ddafydd  val  saeth  im  heseyrn  t 

am  hyscol  pen  keirddiaeth 
Marw  dedryd  nanmor  devdraeth 
Marw  dysc  boll  gymrv  o  daeth 

6.  Jarll  esegks  :   llwyddiant  drwy  foliant  i  dryfailion « 

TU  or  Eif  yn  yr  hyfel  Anon 

240  Dawns  o  bowns  doe  /n/  ysbeilwyd     ....  v 
Jarll  oi  vab  arall  a  vo 


174  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   146, 

244       Ha[w]dd  vyd  heddiw  i  vwydav     ....  a 

hir  aeth  hagr  hwyr  ith  ddygaf  Gutto'r  Glynn 

247  Jrwdkneiff:  yn  drifEeth  ith  wnair  rvffvdd     ....  h 

trifEwyth  i  vaslart  RiifEiidd 

250       Seffray  a  yf  o  saif  ffraingk     See  p.  155  ahove.  c 

253    Dychan  :  Guttvn  y  glyn  a  fv  glaf  .  .  .  i  rroi  arall  y  rowran  Syr  Rys   d 

255  f  syr  Rys  :  Gwae  a  gynhaliodd  i  gyd     ....  e 
dan  y  gyst  a  dwyn  i  gaii 

258       Mae  dawn  diiw  im  dyn  diwael     ....  f 

Gware  ynos  a  -wna  /  n  /  gwr  ni 
261  Sieffre  KyffynrVerBvva  piavr  owron     ....  g 

heb  vanedd  ni  bwyf  yno 

264       A  oes  vn  plas  yn  siampler     ....  A 

A  brawd  yr  iarll  biavr  drych 

267       Bronn  draw  bier  enw  a  dric     ....  i 

ar  elen  ai  heirioles 

270       Deliais  o  glwyf  a  dolvr     ....  k 

pren  per  yr  haelder  ai  roes 

273       Duw  a  roes  ym  o  dir  saint     ....  / 

siars  na  inach  syr  sion  mechain 
275       folo  tvthiodd  at  ^thael     ....  m 

trvnio  a  attor  anedd 

278       Roi  ty  /r/  wyf  vry  ar  y  vronn  n 

mae  mendith  am  y  maendo 

281       Yngred  pe  gallwn  redec     ....  o 

Tj  /  V  /  beirdd  a  ffoed  hir  y  bo 

284       Mae  im  kefyn  os  pythevynos     ....  p 

Ai  gwledd  hi  a  giliodd  haint* — end  wanting. 

287       Mae  vn  keidwad  mewn  kadair     ....  g 

modveddef  mevdwy  viiyddaf 

290       Uys  rrydd  ym  y  sydd  ansoddav  llii  daly     ....  r 

lie  /  r  /  hoed  lies  drioed  llys  rrydd 

293       Prelad  ar  yu  gwlad  o  glwyd  i  ddyfrdwy    ....  « 

vn  diiw  ath  atto  i  lowior  wlad 

296  odl  i  dd:  ap  tomas  ap  dd:  ap  IVn  o  dyhevbarth 

llawen  wyf  implwyf  am  plas  diofal     ....  t 

yw  yn  maeth  an  llvniaeth  an  llywenydd 

297  A  ydeilo  hvdoliaeth     ....  u 
pen  kenedl  penaic  kwynedd 

300       Tri  llii  aeth  i  gymru  gynt     ....  v 

kymyrv  a  dry  yn  dy  raid 


304.  "  the  charges  ..  .  spent  for  my  stable  "  being  4  items  of  3/4,  3-/,  5/-,  2/7. 

b.  Val  dyma  val  iroeddid  yn  dal  Tomlanereb  a  henwe  y  gwji  a  oedd  yn  i  dala 
ardreth  ar  ben  pub  vn.  deilied  Tomlantich 

ardreth  gwas  y  brenin  yno      .     .    pedwarvgain  vi*  \n]'' 

ardreth  John  wyttmor  o  dir  oonach  -  .    ij" 

ardreth  Owen  ap  Tud:  vychan         -  -  .     xv'         &c. 

*  The  last  seven  lines  of  the  Cowydd  on  p.  166  follow  here. 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    146.  175 

305       Hir  i  bu  ruffudd  ruddbar     ....  « 

ymgais  ni  wn  i  amgen  Rhys  goch 

307       y  mab  ai  glust  ymho[bj  glann     ....  b 

lluddia  drai.s  Haw  dduw  drosoch — imperfect  Lewis  mon 

309       y  rrisswr  hir  i  assen  c 

val  ais  oedd  i  velwas  hen,  &c. — imperfect  „       „ 

311       silien  ith  gadw  Syr  bened     ....  d 

ar  wlan  degwm  y  leni  Tudr  Penllynn 

313       Diwedd  hen  yw  r  vargen  vav     ....  e 

nag  wyu  i  genflgenwr  Gutto'  glyn 

315       Mis  ^onawr  myglyd  dyffryu     ■     .     .      ,  / 

hi  a  ddevvydd  yiiydd  ag  yn  nos 

318       Yr  bavl  deg  ar  vy  neges     ....  g 

f  gynal  y  morganwg     Gi':  llwyd  ah  dd:  ab  Einiawii  lygliw 

321       y  karw  serch  y  kywiriaid  ....  h 

dy  gar  a  ddieilch  dy  gwn  fev:  ap  Tudr  penllyn 

323       Dart  arglwydd  herbart  baham     ....  i 

vn  klo  I  V  I  king  edwart  yw  /  r/  herbart  hwn    L.  G.  Cothi 

329  Marionad  Amies  merch  ssion  ivynn — imperfect 

Oer  yw  dylyn  ar  dalaith     ....  k 

J  annes  ***** 
332-34  Fragments  only  of  these  pages  are  left. 

335  Moliant  grvffydd  ap  nigkolas 

grvflfydd  ar  ddevi-ydd  wrawl     .     .     .,    .  •       I 

gadv  arglwydd  gardd  gridiol       rhys  llwyd  ap  rh:  ap  rhis' 

336  f  S.  koetmor  {pan  vw  n  Rhviiain  11^11  .  ef  a  vti  variv  ^4S'4) 

a  byth  wlad  heb  iaith  lydaw     ....  »t 

hael  pedr  ai  helpio  adref  Ho:  reinalld 

336c  y   ifan   amheredydd  ap    tvdvr  o  lanfor  ymhenllyn 
ystondardd  berer  arg:  herbart  yn  tnaes  ymanbri 
ifan  wrol  fanerwen     ....  n 

kan  y  gloch  kynig  i  ladd  tvdvr  penllyn 

338  Mar:  d.  nanmor,  deio  ap  if:  dv,  tvdvr  penllyn  ag  if:  devlwyn 

lladd  pen  gwynedd  o  ganav     ....  o 

a  gair  gobaith  faith  a  fydd        Howel  dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rys 

342  Marwnad  Gwladvs  verch  syr  Dafvdd  gam 

Y  seren  o  efeni     ....  p 

i  dewiswii  dewysawg  lewis  glyn  hothi 

343  y  ofyn  march :  tyddyn  avr  vt  a  wedda  q 

tvdvr  wyr  dvdvr  wr  da     .     .     .     . 

nid  oes  arian  am  dani 

nis  rhydd  dyn  onis  rhoi  di       gr:  ab  ll'n  fychan  o  lysfaen 

345  Kywydd  yr  owen  [=  Yweri] 

O  gwnovthvm  er  gwraig  neithiwvr     ....  r 

yno  i  dof  inav  dafydd  Dafydd  ap  Edmond 

347  Kowydd  i  ofyn  heddwch  gwyr  kaer  einion  ymhowys 

Addaf  pridodd  dir  pradwys     ....  * 

mwy  0  bowys  im  bowyd  lewis  mon 

349   Y  keiliog  :  gwae  a  fo  ag  arno  gvr     ....  t 

vm  gael  un  dyn  itn  gwiliad    ^etc  gethin  ap  J.  ap  lleision 


176  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   146. 

350  J  owain  dion  :  y  gleisiad  fwnwgl  asvr     ....  a 

gael  dvw  a  gweled  owain  howel  dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  rhys 

352  J  dd:  ap  gwilim  o  Iwydiarth  ymon  ag  i  ojvn  hymod  i  fam  fo 

awn  i  wynedd  yn  vnion b 

a  mon  roed  iminav  yn.  rhydd  tvdvr  penllyn 

353  Cowydd  i  geisio  heddwch  S'  Edward  Stradling 

Pwy  y\v  /  r  /  vn  syr  ir  prins  Harri     ....  c 

af  vnwaith  ne  ddwyn  fenaid  Lewis  Morganwg 

Cywydeu  by  D-  ap  Gwilim. 

355       a  mi  yn  glaf  er  mwyn  gloywferch     ....  d 

nag  wy  dioer  nag  ederyn  D.  ap  Gwilim 

Zbl       gida  ag  icir  i  kai  dy  garv     ....  e 

i  fynydd  ni  wybudd  neb 

358  y  fran  dreigl  wman  draw     ....  f 
i  drais  oddiar  y  kae  draw 

359  kyrch  yr  edn  di  aflednais     ...  g 
er  ysmis  eres  ymyw 

361       dydd  da  yt  y  gog  serchogfwyn     ....  h 

dygwn  y  ferch  deg  wen  fain 

363  yr  wylan  deg  ar  lanw  dioer     ....  i 
fy  nihenydd  fydd  y  ferch 

364  teg  forfvdd  tegav  evrfalch     ....  k 
kymod  liw  manod  a  mi 

366  kariad  ar  ddyn  anwadal     ....  ; 
barn  iawu  rhof  a  gwawn  i  gwedd 

367  keisio  yn  lew  lieb  dewi     ....  m 
er  ai  keidw  evrog  hoywdal 

368  digio  irwyf  am  ail  ewyn     ....  n 
i  gysgod  wybr  i  gysgv 

369  echenaid  wedii  aflednais     ....  o 
evthyr  morfydd  im  dihydd  dyn 

370  gorllwyn  yrwyf  ddyn  geirllaes     .     .     .     •  p 
yn  oes  bvn  ddowod  nos  byth 

371  dysgais  ddwyn  kariad  esgvd  &c.  (II.  i-is.)    See  p.  373.  q 

372  fal  i  roeddwn  fawl  rwyddaf     ....  r 
amen  am  wlldio  fy  mvn 

373  dysgais  ddwyn  kariad  esgvd     ....  s 
kowir  ni  mynegir  mwy 

374  kynar  fodd  kain  arfeddyd     .     .     .      ,  t 
nith  yrbavl  vnwaith  ar  hon 

376  hoywdeg  riain  am  hvdai     ....  u 
na  bvn  na  dvw  sadwrn  byth 

377  yrwybrwynt  lielynt  hylaw     ....  ^ 
debre  yn  iach  da  wybren  wyd 

379       mwynddyn  dyred  ir  manddail     ....  to 

yn  rhydd  ond  ydydd  ar  dail 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   146.  177 

380  Mar:  dd:  llwyd  o  aber  tanad  a  Reinallt  gr:  ap  hleddyn 

Dav  wr  hwnt  fal  blodav  rhos     ....  a 

yn  i  t'addav /n/ nef  vddyn  Jeuan  ap  tudvr  penllyn 

383  Moliant  Reinallt  gruff:  ap  hleddyn 

Nos  da  Hew  onest  llawen     ....  h 

ef  a  fyth  fwyfwy  weithian  Howel  Cilan 

385  J  sienkyn  amrhed:  ap  Rhys  dvpanfv  gareharor  yn  ffraingk 

Och  wyr  am  y  karcharor     ....  c 

mair  »i  dwc  or  mor  i  dir  Deio  ap  Jeuan  dv 

387       Gruffvdd  beisrvdd  bowvsran     ....  d 

a  gwin  yn  nanav  a  gaf  Tudur  pennllyn 

389   F  kelioc :  T  krair  vwch  law  /  r  /  glwydiair  gled     .     .     .     .     e 
desgant  hoU  bradwysgerdd  hvw  arwystl 

391  J  henaint :  gwae  a  fwriodd  gof  oerwas     ....  f 

ith  wlad  teg  ith  weled  ti  iefan  brydydd  Mr 

393  Owdl  farwnad  y  prins  arthvr 

Uewod  orfod  dan  vn  baich     ....  g 

brwydr  llewod  briwder  llowiawdr  Rhys  nanmor 

397  Marwnad  gvto  r  glyn 

yn  iach  awen  na  chowydd     ....  h 

gwledd  ddvw  ai  arglwyddiaeth  gvtvn  owam 

399  J  ofvn  march :  ymae  neithior  yfory     ....  t 

y  gwyn  moel  vn  gwanwyn  mwy  tvdvr  penllyn 

400  etto  :  tri  gorwydd  er  ysblwyddyn     ....  k 

dyro  eto  ym  droterth  „  „ 

404  Kowydd  y  gwalld  =  ystordyn  medd-dod 

doe  gwelwn  karwn  bei  kaid  ...  I 

da  i  trig  avr  ar  befrf rig  bvn         Jeu:  ap  Rhy-j,  ap  J.  llxoyd 

405  dychan  i  dvdvr  penllyn — imperfect. 

glan  dvdvr  gloew  wyndodeg     ....  m 

somai  yn  ddifai  ddwyfoch  ***** 

408  Mar:  Harri  vij:  0  rhoed  davar  ar  Harri     ....  n 

harri  sydd  hiroes  iddo  {S')  Dauudd  trefor 

410       Madog  ambadog  gwr  hynaws     ....  o 

kaw[s]  tew  o  laethfain  kaws  tylwythog       deio  ap  if  an  dv 

413  Moliant  grvffydd  ap  nigkolas 

Wrth  ddechrav  am  swyddav     ....  n 

hvawdl  y  fro  a  hoedl  yw  frig     Howel  dd:  ap  if:  ap  rhys 

415  Marwnad  Hari  sunt 

Hari  sant  hyf  yw  r  oes  hon     ....  q 

bid  dy  nai  (H:  7  :)  ar  y  byd  hwn  oil     Gr:  ap  dd:  Vychan 

417       T  gwirionllwdn  teg,  rhownllaes     ....  r 

a  rein  heddwch  ir  enaid  ffoiogk  prys 

421  Moliant  rhodri  ap  Owen  gwynedd—see  also  434. 

dymgwaddoles  dvw  dyfyn  bwylladoedd     ....  * 

yn  dragowydd  antraghedig  gwalchmai  ap  meilir 

426       Antvron  davar  antvron  t 

Ampryflef  donyef  dynyadon     .... 
yn  avr  goryf  yn  toryf  antvrion 

andtvron  davar  antvron  ILowarch  prydydd  y  Modi 

e    87130.  M 


178  MOSTYN  MANUSGEIPT  146,.. 

429      ardwyraf  hael  o  hwyl  aches    ....  -a 

o  foli  rhodii  ryodres  Ejowarch  prydydd y  Moch 

434       ardwyreaf  naf  vt  neirthyeid  ....                                   6 

athro  ked  bych  kydfrawd  a  saint  „                 „ 

438  Marwnad  Owen  gwynedd 

I.      ochaf  ddvw  o  ddyfod  llaith  ....                                      c 

di  fvner  vcher  ag  echwydd  donel  ap  llosgwrn  mew 

II.      Arglwydd  grist  kvlwydd  kalon     ....  d 

nad  mal  kerdd  dvkvn  sein  erwin  son 
446  f  feihion  owain  tvdvr  a  edmwnt  iarll  ritsmwnt  a  siasbar 
iarll  penfro  Jashar  dvwgk  y  bedford  wedi  hyny 
y  ddevwr  arglwyddiaidd    ....  e 

i  gadw  aelwyd  gadwaladr  Dafydd  nanmor 

449  Englynion  i  bont  Ian  rwst  l636 

pont  faenwaith  dramaith  i  dramwy     ....  f 

Ax  iawn  grefft  yn  bont  wen  grair  Jfan  John 

450  Marwnad  Davydd  ap  Edmwnt 

J  bardd  gwell  nor  beirdd  i  gyd     ....  g 

tj  dvw  a  gaiff  tad  awen  ffvtyn  owain 

452  kywydd  i  ysgraff  borthaethwy 

y  fFeri  fawr  i  flair  fon     ....  h 

porth  iessv  ir  porth  weission  syr  davydd  trefor 

454  kywydd  kymod  rhys  ap  einion  fychan 

Rhys  a  gynail  rhwysg  einion     ....  i 

nessa  i  fair  a  nes  a  fo  ifan  llwyd  brydydd 

456  Kywydd  i  dd:  ap  siaingkin  o  gareg  y  walch 

dvw  i  gynal  dy  gynydd     ....  k 

kymer  di  o  myni  mwy  ifan  ap  grvffydd  leiqf 

457  Kywydd  i  rys  amhredydd 

ytj  ni  fFy  oddiar  y  fPordd     ....  / 

Iwyr  a  rhwng  lowri  a  rhys  tvdvr  penllyn 

459  Kywydd  i  ofyn  gwregis  syr  wiliam  tomas  a  raglan 

J  ddraig  bob  arynaig  bobl     ....  m 

ar  gerdd  ir  marchog  vrddawl  Mhys  goch  or  yri 

462    Y  marchog  glas  o  went — see  p.  174  above. 

ssathrodd  aer  seithradd  wryd     ....  n 

ag  ynill  y  morganwg  ll'w'yn  moel  y  pantri 

Cywybeu  I  Owen  Glyn  dwr. 
465       Mawr  o  symvd  hvd  hydvr     ....  o 

myn  fy  fEydd  ryw  ddydd  a  ddaw  -folo  goch 

470       eryr  digrif  afrifed     ....  « 

ar  glod  ir  marchog  or  glyn        gr:  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  einion 
473       Myfyrio  i  bvm  i  farwn     ....  q 

ag  vnllaw  yw  am  gynllaith  folo  goch 

475       T  gwr  hir  nith  gar  harri     ....  r 

dwg  ni  on  rhwym  dygn  yn  rhydd  „      „ 

477       Kefais  er  na  fedrais  fydr'   ....  s 

a  chwnkwest  hors  hinsiest  hen      Jeu:  ap  By:  ap  J.  llwyd 
479       Addewais  yt  hynn  ddwywaith     ....  t 

a  ffier  Uys  hoff  y^r  I  r  I  He  folo  goch 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   146.  '  179- 

482  Moliant  Jeuan  ap  einion  ap  gruff:  o  yfionydd 

Pwy  sy  o  rym  passio  /  r  /  iaith     ....  a 

saf  ith  gain  sy  fy w  ath  gar  folo  goch 

484  Marwnad  gan  gwilim  ap  sefnyn  yw  hlant 

Wrth  edrych  galarnych  gael     ....  f> 

natvr  kerdd  fy  nwyn  atvn  giv:  ap  sefnyn 

486  Mar:  Jeuan  gethiti  ap  Jeuan  ap  lleision  yw  blant 

Duw  oferglwy  da  farglwydd     ....  c 

ith  wlad  dvw  ith  weled  ti  Jeuan  gethin 

489  Kowydd  a  gad  ar  fedd  gronwy  vychan 

Prvddlawn  ydywr  korff  priddlyd    ....  d 

heb  orfifen  a  men  fab  mair  Anon 

492  An  indecent  Englyn. 

493  y  mae  gair  ym  o  garv     ....  e 
hirwallt  ir  sawl  ai  harwain                    Dafydd  ap  edmwnt 

496  J    *  *  *  ag  ir  karcharorion  ddaliwyd  yn  y  maes  ym  henal 

Dydd  egr  faes  Diwedd  oer  fu     .     .     .     .  / 

ar  graig  fawr  yn  for  groeg  fo  Gwilim  ap  Jeuan  hen 

J  feibion  Jeu:  vychan  ap  J.  ap  adda  a  fwriwyd  yn  i  karchar 

498       Duw  a  roes  nid  yw  resyn     ....  g 

a  men  heb  gynddrygedd  mwy     Rys  goch  glynn  Dyfrdwy 

500  mawr  yw  dy  wrthiav  r  awron     ....  h 
kai  glod  am  ddyfod  ar  ddav                        Gruffydd  nanav 

501  K.  kymod :  Gruffydd  o  ddolydd  alwen     ....  t 

ai  kred  mae  kowir  ydwyf  Howel  Kilan 

504       fior  ydoedd  oi  frodaur     ....  k 

f  dy  ifor  hael  i  daw  David  ap  Ghnilym 

506  einglynion  i  ofyn  ffaling  band 

owain  wyn  rofyn  o  wresawg     ....  I 

flaenav  foth  iawn  folienir  hvw  machno 

b.  englynion  i  mastr  robert  wyn  mab  syr  John  wyn  pan  oedd  yn 
glaf  or  kief  yd  i  bv  farw 
rhoes  dvw  tad  godiad  teg  ydyn     ....  m 

ach  rvwm  ar  nych  hir  ymaith  hvw  machno 

507  englynion   anaed  i   Ivn  gwr   ar  farch   oedd  yn    y  gwigav 

yngwedir  ar  gwr  oedd  hvw  machno 
mwynwr  yw  r  garddwr  yn  y  gwydd     ....  n 

mawr  wych  i  dwf  a  march  daii  ifan  Johns 

b.  Englyn  i  angharad  law  arian  mam,  ifor  hael 

hawdd  fyd  wawn  wryd  wen  eirian  ynghaer  o 

angharad  ferch  forgan  &c.  Anon 

508-509.  A  series  of  Chronological  Englynion  to  the  Kings  of 
England  from  William  the  Conqueror  to  Edward  V.,  attributed  res- 
pectively to  (1)  grvffydd  ap  yrynat  koch,  (2)  bleddyn  ddv,  (3) 
kynddelw  brydydd  mawr,  (4)  llywelyn  fardd,  (5)  dd:  y  host,  (6) 
madwaith  hengrys  [sic]  o  ial,  (7)  llewylyn  ap  hwyrnerth,  (8) 
gwilym  ddv  o  arfon,  (9)  ssypyn  kyfeiliog,  (10)  llygad  gwr,  (11)  ifan 
brydydd  hir,  (12)  gwilym  ap  ifan  hen,  and  (13)  howel  ystoryn. 


u  2 


180  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   147. 


MS.  147.  Cywybeu  AC  Odleu  from  the  Cors  y  Gedol  Library. 
Paper  ;'  10^  x  6f  inches  ;  726  pages ;  bound  in  white  vellum.  Pages 
1-554;  559-614  ;  616-638  seem  to  have  been  written  between  1599  * 
and  1637  ;  the  remaining  pages  belong  to  various  dates  between 
1637  and  1686,  except  pp.  711-725,  which  belong  to  the  xviiith 
century.  "  John  Myddleton  Esq''  is  the  truw  owner  of  this  Book," 
and  the  signature  of  "  Anne  Towrrbridg "  occurs  many  times 
(pp.  281,  387,  396,453,  622,  690,  705,  726)  ;  "Robert  Parry  1686" 
(p.  705)  ;  "  Robert  Wynne  1696  "  (p.  565).  The  Manuscript  seems 
to  have  become  the  property  of  ^euan  Brydydd  Hir,  as  attested  by 
the  foUowino;  inscription:  "W™  Vaughan  ]  Cors  y  gedol  |  1772  | 
The  1  Gift  of  E.  Evans." 

The  dates  after  some  of  the  authors'  names  are  not  reliable  :  they 
are  only  approximate  at  best. 

According  to  the  foliation  eight  leaves  are  missing  at  the  beginning. 

1  II  kanmlwydd  oeddent  hwy  yn  vnawr     ....  a 
kefyn  gweilgi  kafnav  gwelwgoed                            Ithel  ddv 

2  Kowydd  i  bais  o  vendithion 

Howel  wyd  syw  hael  hyd  vedd     ....  b 

trevlia  /  r  /  wise  trwy  lawer  oes      Rys  goch  glyn  dyfrdwy 

5  J  ofyii  Gwnn  :  Y  karw  iyfank  yrafwych     ....  c 

dre  vo  gwnn  wrth  dref  a  gwal     15§0  Sion  tudur 

9  Kowydd  dros  sion  ap  Edward  ap  Rys  i  ofyn  wdkneiff  i 
gr:  ap  R.  ap  dd:  ap  howel  l/gSO 

Y  gwr  o  rys  geirwir  wyd     ....  d 
el  dayrwy  yr  void  evraid                                  Gutvn  Owain 

11  J  howel  ap  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  i  ofyn  hytheiaid  dros  dd:  ap  Jev: 

heliwr  wyf  hely  ar  ravael     ....  e 

aed  i  gar  a  dav  o  gwn  Gvttyn  owain 

13  K.  i  ofyn  gwalch  dros  John  pilslwn  i  mast'  hv"  morgan 

Y  gwr  lien  gar  hoU  wynedd     ....  / 
galwaf  yr  haelaf  ai  rhydd                                   Gvttyn  owain 

16   Y  dyllvan  :  Uawen  nos  iav  llvniais  oed     ....  g 

yno  i  bo  am  ofni  bvn  Syrr  Sion  leiaj* 

19   Kowydd  i  ofyn  milgi  dv  i  lywelyn  amhorgan 

llywelyn  vnlliw  alarch     ....  h 

am  llowrodd  im  Haw  arail  howel  reinallt 

22    Ypwrs  :  mawr  yw  gair  am  y  tair  rrodd     ....  » 

ir  gwr  hael  ar  wraic  ai  rroes  Ghitto  or  Glyn 

25  jf  ddyfalv  jrj  klok :  kynnar  vydd  kan  arfeddyd     ....       i 
nith  yr  havl  vnwaith  ar  hon  D.  ap  Gwilim 

27  Kywydd  wil  ortnes  i  ofyn  dagr  ISOJ/. 

mae  herwr  yma  i  harri     ....  t 

moes  dager  vrith  gostogyn 

Rys  ap  ll'n  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  o  emyl  kroesoswallt 

29       mae  vn  keidwad  mewn  kadair     ....  *n 

modveddav  mevdwy  fyddaf  Gutto  or  glynn 

31    Y  kardie  :  duw  a  weryd  i  wirion     ....  n 

nev  yn  ardwyr  hwyr  yn  wyrda  Gruffydd  ap  Jevan 

*  "  D""  ap  Gwilim  medd  arall "  in  B,  Simon's  autograph. 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  147.  181 

34       Tydi  r  gwynt  tad  eira  ac  od     .     .     .     .  a 

a  chan  owdwl  ychenidiav  mredydd  ap  Rys,  1!^0 

37  Kywydd  i  gvtto  or  glyn  o  dybied  i  foddi  fo 

Tristach  yw  kymru  trostyn     ....  b 

y  naill  i  dduw  ai  /  n  /  Haw  ddiawl  U'n  ap  guttyn 

39  Atteh  :  mae  llif  oer  mae  Uiveiriant     ....  c 

i  von  try  venaid  traw  Gutto  or  glyn 

41  Kowydd  i  ofyn  y  tarw  Itoch  .  11^30 

Edwart  ai  wyr  ai  drwyr  tan     ....  d 

ond  chwant  tad  ychen  kochion  teg  llowdden 

43  fr  hae :  ^erwarth  drvan  ddioerwas     ....  e 

rew  ne  eira  ar  vron  aravl  jfolo  goch 

45  jf  ofyn  tarw  dros  gr:  vychan  i  reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn 

Tair  annerch  i  ti  reinallt     ....  f 

eryr  y  twr  er  y  tarw  Tudur  penllyn  100 

47  fr  abad  davydd  o  Ian  egwystl 

mae  poen  ym  a  hap  enyd     ....  g 

troi  amod  y  tri  ymaith  Gutto  or  Glynn 

50  f  karri  gruffydd  (o  Euas) 

y  dv  hydr  or  dehevdir     ....  h 

koUest  a  roest  kailestr  wyd  „  „ 

53  K.  dros  Sion  evtyn  i  ofyn  korn  hela  i  sieffre  koetmawr 

Sieffre  a  ^f  osaai  flfraink     ....  t 

keirw  yn  sied  ar  korn  i  sion  Gutto  or  Glynn 

56  K.  dros  sieffre  hyffin  i  ofyn  dav  vilgi  i  Rob:  ap  Jevan  vychan 
Eobert  vwch  rriwiav  aber     ....  k 

ni  bwyf  vnssvl  heb  venswn  Gutto  or  Glynn 

59  ^  ofyn  milgi  dv  :  Tyfodd  yn  rryd  tav  ofwy     ....  I 

ddiaink  o  rrodia  ddaiar  ?  dd:  lloyd  ap  U'n  ap  gr: 

62  Kywydd  i  ofyn  march  i  ruffydd  pennryn 

J  Gwr  vngorff  ag  iorvs     ....  m 

oes  dy  ddvr  dros  dy  ddewredd  Guttyn  owain 

65  /  ofy7i  march  dros  hvw  ap  mad:  i  dd:  ap  mad:  ap  Jolyn 

dewrder  rroed  i  wrda  rrawc     ....  n 

er  i  vwyn  i  roi  venaid  Tvdvr  Aled 

68  Jr  bad:  doe  i  bvm  mewn  man  ar  lanerch     ....  o 

ai  gweled  gwaith  gwaelod  gwy  hvw  arwystl 

70  Jr  pwrs :  Tydi  amner  tew  dwymnyth     ....  p 

y  graic  rrac  of n  dy  grogi  U'n  ap  moel  or  pantri 

73  jf  ofyn  wdkneiff  dros  John  hanmer  i  gr:  ap  Rys  ap  tvdvr 

yn  driffeth  ith  wnent  rvfEvdd     ....  q 

trifEwyth  i  vaslart  rvffydd  Gytto  or  Glyn 

76  Kowydd  i  ofyn  kledde  i  mathew  pilstwn 

y  Hew  main  a  Haw  ymwanwr    ....  r 

bid  teiroes  yn  deinioes  di  Gyttyn  Owain 

78  Kowydd  dros  sion  ap  Elis  i  ovyn  bwkled  i  sion  pylstwn 

yr  vrddol  a  ganmolwn     ....  s 

oes  yr  hydd  dros  y  rroddwr  Gyttyn  Owain 

80       yr  eglvr  bavn  ar  glaer  bais     ....  * 

a  dwg  wen  o  dv  i  gwr  davydd  nanmor 


182  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  147. 

82       madyn  ronwyn  ryenwir     ....  a 

yno  am  wen  yr  ymwanwn  Rys  Goch  or  yri  1^20 

84  fr  llafvrwr :  pan  ymddangoBso  try w  dro  rrydd  ....  ft 
a  Haw  vair  dros  y  llavyrwr  j^olo  Goch 

88   Y  kelioc  :  y  krair  vwchlaw  'r  glwydiair  gled     ....  c 

dysgant  hoU  byradwysgerdd  hvw  arwystl  1350 

92  jf  ofyn  ysclatys  dros  s'  gr:  ap  eignion  i  ddeon  bangor 

Eoi  ty  yr  wy  vry  ar  y  vron     ....  ^ 

mae  niendith  am  y  maendo  Gytto  or  Glyn 

95       y  bengloc  wystyn  heb  vn  glod     ....  g 

ystyr  dy  ddydd  na  fydd  falcb  ll'n  Goch  ap  mevric 

97       Tydi  y  kariwrch  ffwrch  ffoawdwr     ....  f 

dy  groisi  bryd  y  groessen  davydd  ap  Gwilym  llfiO 

99       y  Gwyddelyn  vydryn  vwydrefr     ....  g 

ys  vaw  diawl  assw  fy  dy  iaith  Jolo  goch 

103  Kowydd  y  Gwregis — rrai  ai  geilw  Kowydd  y  ddraic 

y  ddraic  babyl  arynaic  bobyl     ....  k 

ar  gerdd  ir  marchoc  vrddawl  Rys  Goch  or  yri 

107   Yklaf:  Gwae  a  vwriodd  gyverwas     ....  i 

ith  weled  iluw  ith  wlad  ti  Jevan  hrydydd  hir  12,50 

110       fyngwinev  farch  fwngnwyfys     ....  h 

yn  kynnal  ar  lann  konwy  Sion  tudyr  15§0 

113  Kowydd  dros  mredydd  ap  gr:  ap  edneved  i  ofyn  march  ir 
abad  sion  {ap  Risiart  o  Lanegwystl) 
yr  arglwydd  rrwydd  or  rroddion     ....  I 

dros  y  march  deiroes  a  mwy  Guttyn  ywain 

116  Kowydd  i  ofyn  march  i  Jihel  ap  Rotperi 

pwy  in  mysc  yn  pen  masgnach     ....  m, 

wrtho  ef  am  diwarthaf  folo  Goch 

120  K.  dros  John  hanmer  i  ofyn  march  i  gr:  ap  R.  ap  dd:  ap  ho: 
yr  eryr  hael  o  ryw  rrys     ....  » 

yr  hydd  yw  vn  or  rroddion  Guttyn  owain 

122  J  ofyn  alarch  :  howel  adda  Lael  oeddwn     ....  o 

berw  /r/  korff  a  brig  koed      Gr:  ap  howel  ap  tudyr .  12,50 

124  Kowydd  wil  dafi  amfeddwi 

y  gwr  ai  sserch  ar  gwrw     ....  p 

i  hwnnw  meddw  amen  ali  ai  kant  l600 

127  (Dyfod  at  Wiliam  ap  dafydd,  ir  dref  &c.)    Huw  Machno  q 

128  Medd-dod :  nid  bwrdiaw  He  daw  vn  dydd     ....  r 

a  fydd  ir  sawl  a  feddwo  lewis  glyn  kothi 

130  Yr  eira  :  heiniar  aredic  hynywyf     .... 

devddyn  ni  bwy  hyn  no  hwy      IM  Goch  ap  mevric  12,00 
134  Mol:  Rys  {ap  lefan  ap  ll'n  Chwith  o  Chwifren)  a 
dychan  i  ddikwn  {o  Bemertwn  y  Pen  Justus) 

o  dduw  j'rrawc  a  ddaw  rrys     ....  t 

a  chwery  Eys  ni  char  hwn         ^ev:  ap  T.  Penllyn  .  12,Bo 

136  7  "/y"  tarw  dros  Rydderch  ap  Rys  i  sion  vychan 

Sion  vychan  hyd  forganwc     ....  u 

Uiwydd  dillad  lloe  iyfaink  Rys  iianmor  .  1^6o 

140       Y  draenllwyn  glas  vrddassawl     ....  v 

a  cherdd  kyn  farwed  a  chi  davydd  ap  Gwilym 


MOSTTN  MANUSCRrPT   147.  183 

141       ifvor  Gwyuedd  ^or  Gwinav     ....  a 

ai  kred  mae  kowir  ydwyf  Howel  kilan  .  I/^^O 

143   Ymgais  mynd  i  drigo  at  arg:  herbart  yn  lie  howel  ap  dd: 

mawr  yw  dysk  yno  maev  da     ...     .  b 

ir  venis  yraf  innav  Gutto  or  glyn 

146  atteb  yw  nakav  :  Eyf edd  ydiw  yr  arveddvyd     ....  c 

o  daw  rrac  hir  drigaw  hwnn      Hoi:  ap  dd:  ap  J.  ap  Rys 

149       Ymddiddan  byhwman  hwyr     ....  d 

kystal  ag  ef  kais  dal  gwyl  folo  Goch 

153       anvon  a  wynaeth  rriein  verch     ....  e 

kar  imi  karv  y  mae  D-  ap  awilym 

166       Yr  havl  dec  ar  vyneges     ....  / 

i  gynnal  ymorganwc  Gr:  llwyd  ap  y  haplan .  11^60 

158  J  ofyn  march  :  Maestr  morgan  ef  ai  vaner     ....  g 

i  gael  gan  Rys  a  gwilym  Lewis  glyn  kothi  .  -1^50 

161  Kowydd  i  ofyn  march  {i  JFwg  Salbri)  deon  llanelwy 

pa  wr  ymhais  abram  hen     ....  h 

Road  duw  yt  yr  het  o  ^fork        gr:  ap  Jev:  ap  ll'n  vychan 

164  Kowydd  i  ddiolch  pwrs  i  ddeon  bangor 

mynwn  ymod  mewn  vn  man     ....  i 

kwfF  evraid  kaffo  hiroes  gutto  or  glyn 

166  Kowydd  hiraeth  am  syr  Rys 

hiraeth  a  wnaeth  ym  neithwyr     ....  k 

ni  bydd  ar  ni  bo  eiddic  mredydd  ap  Rys 

169  f  ofyn  bwkled  dros  wm/ffre  kinast  i  rvff:  ap  ho:  ap  Morgan 

y  gwr  addwyn  gwreiddwych     ....  I 

dy  nai  ath  rodd  don  ith  raid  Gyttyn  owain 

171  Kowydd  i  ofyn  Gwalch  .  1^30 

Pwy  biav  llyfrav  pob  Uys     ....  m 

dros  yr  hawk  deiroes  hydd  Owen  ap  ll'n  y  moel 

173  K.  kymod  rrwng  gr:  hangmer  a  Roister  ap  sion  .  14§0 

J  ddevgar  foneddigion     ....  n 

y  rrain  fal  i  bvr  hynaf  howel  kilan 

176  Kowydd  i  ovyn  dwy  gertwain  .  1560 

y  ddav  ossawc  ddewissawl     ....  o 

at  Iwyddiant  ai  tal  vddyn  Wiliam  llyn 

179  y  ofyn  dav  alarch  dros  Siankin  llwyd  (?  by  deio  ap  fevan  dv) 

Tomas  ondras  y  wiwdref     ....  p 

feleireh  er  dengmeirch  y  dvg  llowdden 

181       y  dabler  yn  i  dyblig     ....  q 

i  phwyth  er  kael  i  phoethi  Marys  Owyfech 

183  Kowydd  i  ofyn  gwalch  dros  W  hangmer  i  syr  Robert 
person  llan  vylling  149O 
Pwy  a  rann  gwaed  y  pren  gwin     ....  r 

,s5>,v>\     amgylch  havl  am  y  gwalch  hwn  Tvdyr  aled 

185  ^  ofyn  march  i  dd:  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr:  dros  Robert  ap  Rhys 

Powys  Iwyd  pwy  sy  wladwr     ....  s 

o  chair  at  y  verch  hirwenn  Tvdyr  aled 

188  Kowydd  i  ofyn  4  bwkled  i  4  mab  Elis  Eutun  dros 
Siancyn  ap  Howel  0  Feirionydd 
bwriwyd  help  ar  y  bryd  hyn     ....  t 

bid  ar  vn  bedair  einioea  „         „ 


184  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   147. 

190  /  ojyn  tarw  dv  dros  arglwyddes  or  pevtyn  i  lewelyn 
amhorys  ap  Rys  ap  adda  o  Ian  gvrig 
Pwy  ywr  enwog  pvr  rinwedd     ....  a 

fydd  meirch  ag  Eleirch  a  gwin       Kad'  ap  Rys  trefnant 

194  Kowydd  i  ddyfalv  pibydd  o  sir  y  fflint 

devthvra  ddvw  sul  diwaethaf    .     .     .     .        _  6 

iddi  Eilweith  na  ddelwy  lewis  Glyn  kothi 

195  K.  i  ofyn  march  ir  abad  o  aberkonwy  dros  lewis  amhadog 

Gidag  vn  a  geidw  gwynedd     ....  c 

ferch  deg  o  bai  farch  yw  dwyn  Tvdyr  aled 

198       balcli  yw  llowdden  y  leni     ....  d 

o  ymdagv  mi  ai  dygaf  howel  sowrdwal 

200  Atteb :  erchais  varcli  dihafarch  dv     .     .     .     .  e 

dros  i  fost  ar  draws  i  farch  llowdden 

201  /  ovyn  honger  i  wiliam  gilbert  o  gaer  einion  dros 

sjT  gr:  Johnes  pexson  aber  hafesb 
y  Gwr  hael  a  gar  helyat     ....  / 

gaiin  y  gwr  i  vgain  gwerth  Jeuan  tew  hrydydd 

204  hawd  amor  glwysgor  glasgoed     ....  g 
devddrwg  am  i  wladeiddrwydd                davyddap  Cfwilim 

205  Kowydd  i  lewis  vyehan  or  ysdog 

lewis  vyehan  ymwanwr     ....  h 

bod  y wch  air  y  byd  ich  ol        owen  ap  llywelyn  ap  j  moel 

207  Kowydd  i  ovyn  korwgl  i  Sion  Evtyn  hen 

meddylio  i  ddwyn  o  nwyddiant     ....  i 

a  gwir  ddychan  fydd  Bran  rrai  fevan  vyehan 

210  Atteb  :  ystod  hir  ystad  hoywrym     ....  k 

dros  fod  yn  ddi  byagod  byth  Mredydd  ap  Rys 

213       ILwyr  adwyth  fu  mhell  rodiaw     ....  I 

kly wais  gerdd  o  fewn  klos  gwydd 
seim  oswalU  dros  y  meissydd     .... 
e  dyf  y  main  o  daf  mwy  Rys  brychan 

2\S  f  ofyn  karw  gan  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  Aran  o  veirion 

diir  yw  Rhys  i  dori  Bhon     ....  '    m 

nag  or  Uys  n6d  rhys  ai  rhydd  Rys  Pennardd 

217  Backws :  wrth  rodio  mydr  weithredwr     ....  *» 

keisiwn  nef  man  kyson  oedd  John  phylip  1S§0 

220       Diill  a  thorriad  llythyren  o 

y  sydd  gan  Bithagoras  hen     .... 
in  diiw  ir  archwn  yn  dwyn  „  „ 

223  K.  y  deu  beth  ar  bymthec  diball  ar  ol  Marsial  ddoeth 

Gynt  yr  oedd  gnot  ar  addysg     ....  p 

y  diweddaf  or  dyddiav  Simwnt  vachan 

226       Mae  <fn  ai  barch  mewn  y  byd     ....  q 

Vsiirieth  f^b  serth  i  fant 
fab  vsuriwr  fab  soriant     .... 
drwy  bawb  ag  fo  fendiar  b^d  John  TwdUr  (iSSO) 

228       Ni  aliaf  nid  af  o  duy     ....  r 

plwm  osr  i  glog  pie  mae  r  glaw      Jeuan  ap  Rys  ap  ICn 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   147.  185 

230  /  ofyn   Casseg  dros   Edward  llwyd  o  hartsheath 
gann  John  a  Edw:  llwyd  o  gelli  gynan 

Y  Q-wr  hael  mawr  groiw  hoiwlin     ....  a 
iawn  achossion  o  cheissir                                   Morys  Kyffin 

233  Cowydd  yn  edliw  camarver  y  beirdd  am  roddi  achav  ag 
arfav  i  iangwyr  ac  ir  iselradd 
Gwae  ni  /  r  /  beirdd  gan  air  y  b^d     ....  b 

Ninnav  r  beirdd  a  iiawn  rai  bas 
or  arddwyr  wyr  o  vrddas 
a  rhoi  achav  rhy  wychion 
a  mawl  i  siack  mal  i  sion 
pawb  chwit  chwat  yn  Uedrata 
penillion  prydyddion  da 
ai  troi  i  iangwr  trvan 
poen  trwy  freib  fal  peintio  r  fran 
asgell  o  bob  edn  gweisgwych 
ar  fryn  a  nai  r  fran  yn  wych 
o  chaiff  swydd  dav  arwydd  dig 
ef  ai  n  hawdd  yn  fonheddig     .... 
OS  ir  gwan  ni  roi  giniaw 
na  chardawd  i  dlawd  oi  law 
na  chenniog  dros  i  grogi 
fo  rydd  am  ach  fowrdda  i  mi     .     .     .     . 
kard  o  law  r  bardd  ai  harddai 
Haw  r  bardd  a  naeth  Uawer  bai 
dwyn  achav  ag  arfav  gant 
oddiar  rowiog  i  ddrewiant     .... 
nawdd  ddvw  gwyn  rhag  naddv  gwawd 
i  rai  ni  weddai  naddwawd 
kanwn  ar  y  faink  hynod 
i  rai  a  ryglyddai  glod     .... 
mwy  o  avr  siwrl  ymhwrs  sion  John  Tudur 

._  236  Cowydd  i  ofyn  bwchled  gan  Mr:  Rob:  pulstwn  o  vers, 
dros  Wiliam  ap  femwnt  llwyd 

Y  dyn  ir  hael  dan  aur  hen     ....  c 
i  ddav  bwyth  o  dda  bathawl      Morys  ap  Jeuan  ap  eignou 

239  /  ovyn  march  brith  dros  lewis  bvlyns  gan  Syr  Elis  ap 
Richard  ap  ho:  ap  Mred:  offeiriad — 3°  Marcij  ISJJ 

Y  prelad  hael  perl  y  tir     .     .     .     .  d 
a  wisgo  /  n  /  iork  wisg  wen  wych                     John  phylip 

243  Yr  hdfduy :  Adeilais  diiy  fry  ar  fryn     ....  e 

na  chymvn  am  i  f  vn  fyth  Dauydd  ap  gwilim 

245  Cowydd  Crynphast,  a  rhuglgroen 

val  yr  oeddwn  vavvl  rwyddaf    ....  / 

amen :  am  wlltio  fy  m^n  „  „ 

246  mail  gariad  mewn  magwriaeth     ....  g 
mav  fygwth  am  i  fagv./ 

248  Cowydd  i  ddyfalu  Tylluan  a  roesai  ofn  ar  ferch 

Gwn  neuthyd  a  gwen  neithwyr     ....  h 

noeth  dwyll  i  nyth  dyllvan./  John  TudUr 

'  250  J  ddyfalu  Hong :  Anawdd  ym  ^n  awddamawr     ....         » 
pettwn  y  mynwn  y  mod  folo  goch 


186  MOSTYN  MANUSCEIPT  147. 

252   Cowydd  yn  hewru  ar  Jeuan  tew  hrydydd  fynd  allawer 
niwy  not  rann  or  yd  degwm  oedd^nghyd  rhyngtho  a 
Mr:  Harri  powel  i  nai 
Y  Gwr  oediawc  a  gredir     ....  a 

ag  fi  i  mi  nag  aed  mwy  M'  Harri  Powel 

255  Atteb  :  Meistr  Harri,  dJMi  bob  dawn     ....  h 

e  gyst  avr  yt  gwas  dewr  wyf  Jeuan  Tew  Brydydd 

258  Kowydd  i  ofyn  hwrtal  y  llatteies 

Klowch  felwas  kael  vwch  foliant     ....  c 

chwithav  Roedt  dvw  vwch  wythoes  Edward  Maelor 

261   Cowydd  i  roi   Cwrtal  i  Mr:    John    Trevor   Trevalyn 
ag  i  Mr:  John  Prys  o  Eglwyseg,  yn  llateies 
kwrtal  korn  ym  svsial  serch     ....  d 

ith  nwy  oni  ddelwy  ith  nol./     E.  maelor  (dros  Ja'  Evtyn) 

264  Kowydd  atteb  i  ofyn  clomendy  i  gadw  kwrtal  y  llateies 

y  ddav  sion  ddewis  anerch     ....  e 

kymrwch  a  cliedwch  i  ehwi  Owen  Brereton 

266  Kowydd  oddiwrth  Sion  Trevor  o  hiraeth  ag  annerch- 
ion  i  owen  brereton  i  gar  ai  anwylyd 
fy  ior  dewr  klav  fowrder  klod     ....  f 

feryr  dowch  adre  i  f wras  /  Edward  Maelor 

269   Ow:  Briwtwn  yn  manegv  i  fete  efi  hvn  i  S.  trefor  a 
S.  prys  drwy  fales  Mr:  W.  Mydlton 
koeliais  hyn  klowais  anerch     ....  g 

vn  twits  am  i  gwaned  hi  Wiliatn  midlton 

272   Testolaeth  gowir  am  arfere  Ow:  brerton  a  W.  midlton 

J  ddevgarw  wych  ddigriwedd    ....  k 

am  ych  kowydd  sydd  mor  sal  Eddward  maelor 

276  Kowydd  damegion  owen  brerton 

Gwelais  fronn  glasfawr  annedd     ....  i 

na  chais  ymryson  a  cherdd  Wiliam  Midlton 

280       Nid  damegion  ond  brevddwydion     ....  ft 

Chychwi  ddevgar  ewch  ddegoes     .... 
chwechoes  foch  dwy  oes  ich  dav./  Edward  tnaelor 

284  K.  hiraeth  a  chariad  gan  S.  trefor  i  Mr:  S.  hanmer  o  hanmer 

Oes  dim  o  ran  ieav  dad     ....  I 

wyt  Ian  wych  at  ly wenydd  Robert  ifans 

287  Kowydd  i  ofyn  bwa  i  wiliam  hynwal 

Kyfarchaf  He  kaf  orchest     ....  in 

teiav  rys  ar  tir  yw  ol  Edmwnt  prys . 

Yn  ol  gyry  adref  y  kowydd  hwn  i  gyrodd  Wiliam  kynwal  lythr  at  Rys  Trynn  i 
ddangos  roi  hono  fo  fenthing  y  bwa  ag  os  y  fo  ni  chae  y  bwa  drachefn  fo  bryne  y 
bwa  gorav  ynghaer  ag  ai  gyre  i  Eys  wynn  ag  arhoeson  yr  addewid  yma  ddwyflynedd 
a  banner  oni  chyfarfv  y  m'  prys  a  wiliam  kynwal  ag  ymliw  ag  ef  os  kowsai  ef 
gerdd  pam  na  roe  fo  y  bwa  ne  gerdd  ag  nid  Uytbr  yn  ateb  oni  bai  fod  yn  gofvn 
drwy  lytbyr./ 

291       Y  karw  yn  y  maes  kry  yn  y  mwng     ....  »* 

wrthi  fi  kai  werth  o  fawl./  Wiliam  kynwal 

Gydar  kowydd  ychod  y  doeth  1  lythr  arall  at  Eys  wynn  i  ercbi  iddo  fo  ddangos 
y  kowydd  i  mr  prys  fal  i  gallai  fo  wnevthvr  ateb  iddo  os  mynai  oblegid  medd 
wiliam  fo  raeliodd  y  mr  prys  arnafi  dan  yn  y  bwlch  yn  arythr  na  yraswn  i  naill  ai 
bwa  ai  kerdd  pan  welodd  y  masdr  prys  y  Uythr  y  kredodd  mai  sialeinsio  f o  ir  maes 
i  roedd  wiliam  ag  attebodd 


• '  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  147.  187 

294      Obv^feirdd  heb  oferddysg    ....  a 

J  bwa  i  Rys  heb  or  wad  Edmwnt  prys 

297       Y  karw  eglvrya  kareglavr     ....  b 

gad  ym  fyw  yn  gydymaith./  Wiliam  Kynwal 

301       Eirchiad  wyf  archwawd  ofer     ....  c 

kariad  ym  kowira  dair./  Edmwnt  prys 

304      Y  prelad  hap  ryw  haelon     ....  d 

oen  da  i  ddvw  maen  dy  ddewis./  Wiliam  kynwal 

308       Y  kowir  fardd  kv  arfod     ....  e 

athrafais  nag  wrth  ryfel  Edmwnt  prys 

313  Cowydd  i  ganmol  Cardwyr  a  dis-wyr 

y  gwyr  awnai  yr  gair  yn  well     ....  / 

kerdiwch  ag  na  chiliwch  i  /  Sion  ap  howel  {I4S0) 

315       Dvw  a  weryd  i  wirion  &c.     See  p.  31  above.  g 

318       Y  dyn  a  sigwyd  i  av     .     .     .     .  A 

ath  fors  gwaewraic  ath  fedd  Dafvdd  ap  Edmwnd 

321       Dafvdd  fab  di  fvdd  i  fod     .     .     .     .  i 

gad  y  gastyr  gidar  gostrel  Chttor  glyn 

323       Y  ddevgar  voneddigion  &c.     See  p.  173  ahove.  k 

326  Y  Mil-wyr  :  pand  angall  na  dvallwn     ....  / 

ar  Haw  yno  ir  llywenydd  Syr  Davydd  trefor 

329  f  ofyn  Miliast  wenn  {i  Bob:  Wynn  ap  Morys  o  Foelas 
dros  Sion  Wynn  ap  Cadwaladr  0  Riwlas) 
Di  annerch  ydiw  anael    ....  m 

ni  bydd  hwn  heb  fenswn  fyth  William  llyn 

332  J  ofyn  Hwrdd  (i  Gad:  ap  Rob:  o  Benllyn  dros  Sian  Mostyn) 

Yr  vstvs  oil  ras  dvw  sydd     ....  n 

^  Iwdwn  fal  y  dyn  (a)  fydd.  /  Gryffydd  hiraethog 

336  7  ofyn  dav  alarch  (i  Domas  Mostyn  dros  Rob:  ap  lefan) 

Mastr  tomas  dewr  at  ymwan     ....  o 

yr  haelwawr  ai  heiriolodd.  / '  Gryffydd  hiraethog 

339  Cowydd  i  bids  Wiliam,  Edwards  or  Wavn 

Y  llys  wen  pob  He  sy  is     .     .     .     .  p 
falle  bai  wir  felly  bych.  /                                      Lewis  man 

342  J  ofyn  Cymod  gan  Jeuan  vychan  ap  Jeu:  ap  Adda 

Sain  kristoffer  a  fvn  offrwm     ....  q 

ar  fynghef D  er  fynghyfoeth  Guttor  glynn 

345   Cowydd  i  ofyn  arfav  gwnnion  (dros  Wiliam  Etttmi) . 

Y  dref  ar  dor  yr  afon     ....  r 
dy  wr  ai  gwisc  fal  draig  wen                              Tvdvr  aled 

(^    348  Cowydd  i  ofyn  Cwpl  o  fytheiaid  dvon  gwarr-wnnion.  I 

Yr  hoiwfab  elwir  hafart  s 

Wiliam  o  ddysc  lym  i  ddart     .... 

gann  ddiolch  am  gwn  dvon.  /  Hvw  kae  llwyd 

,  350  /  ofyn  keliog  coed  (i  Robert  amhorys  0  Langedwyn 
dros  Rhys  Fychan  o  Ardudwy) 
Herod  wyf  hoiw  rad  afael     ....  t 

egni.llew  roi  gyn  lleied.  /  Gryffydd  hiraethog 

353  J  'ofyn  nawdd  {Elisau  a  Gruffydd  Fychan  meib:  Gr: 
ap  Einiawn  ap  Gr:)  am  garv  cares  or  eiddynt 

Y  gwyr  i  darfy  n  vn  naid     ....  « 
•       ach  bodd  yw  r  ddwyrodd  eraill./                        Howel  hilan 


1S8  MOSTYN  MANUSCBIPT   147. 

356  /  ofyn  hwa  a  saethav  i  Syr  Lewis  person  ILangatwc 

kan  hawdd  fyd  kanv  ddwyfi     ....  a 

a  dvw  eilchwaith  ai  diolcho  Tomas  derllytc 

358   Cowydd  i  ofyn  dav  faen  inelin.  j 

pwy  oil  agair  pell  igyd     ....  h 

a  roe  ddwydorth  vrddedig.  /  Sion  heri 

360   Cowydd  i  wragedd  eiddigvs 

Bath  rvw  fodd  beth  ryfedda     ....  c 

a  fyn  ya\a  fwy  noi  gilydd  Gwevrfvl  achowel  fychan 

363   Cowydd  i  ymwrthod  ar  Byd 

Dis  ywr  byd  os  arbedwn     ....  d 

ar  dda  mwy  ond  ar  ddvw  mawr  Sion  Tydvr 

365   Gwyr  Kaer :  I  Reinallt  mae  kledd  ar  groen  yn  grafE  e 

ab  gryffydd  ap  bleddyn     .... 

kan  hwythav  klapiav  gann  gledd./  Lewis  glynn  kothi 

369  Ihaddfa  ar  w^r  Sir  Gaer-Ueon  / 
Wyr  einion  ai  ffonn  ffynied  y  saesoii     .... 

Haw  a  dyrr  ownnwydd  Hid  wyr  einion./       Tvdvr  penllyn 

370  /  ofyn  Bwckled:  Mae  yngogledd  ymwng  gwlad     ...        g 

llyna  i  chael  Uawenach  wyf./  Sion  keri 

Z^2i   Cowydd  i  eiriol  cymod  rhwng  S'  Richard  Bwlkley  a 
M'  W"  Lewis  o  Brysaddved 
Os  mon  yw  ynys  y  mel     ....  ■  h 

vwch  vwch  i  del  i  chwich  dar./  {John  brwynog) 

376  Cowydd  yr  aradr  ar  arddwyr 

y  drindod  an  kyfodes     ....  t 

kroes  dvw  gwyn  kroesed  y  %yi^v.l  Lewis  glynn  kothi 

378       Dyfrdwy  fawr  ganawr  gynyrch     ....  k 

bydd  bob  pyrnhawn  yn  llawn  Uif  Madog  ap  gronw  gethin 

380   Cowydd  yn  qchwyn  ar  y  Cardie.j 

^e  fair  llwyr  oil  im  goUodd     ....  / 

a  roe  i  air  da  ar  warr  diawl  ./  Hvw  arwystl 

382       Y  dabler  yn  i  dyblig  &c.     See  p.  181  above.  m 

384   y  neidr :  Mae  gwr  byth  am  gowir  barn     ....  n 

i  fEwrn  o  fwc  vfifern  faith  Wiliam  llyn 

386  y  ofyn  Cleddyf  (i  Dd:  ap  Guttyn  o  Groesoswallt) 

Y  Hew  oedd  evrlliw  i  wallt     ....  o 

ladd  dwyfil  a  ehledd  dafydd./  lewis  glyn  kothi 

389  Cowydd  i  S'  Howel  a  gastell  krikieth 

A  welai  neb  a  welaf     ....  p 

a  chadwr  gaer  iechyd  ir  gwr  Jolo  goch 

391  J  ofyn  Menu  (i  Ed:Conwy  o  Fryn  Eirin  dros  Risiart  Gr:) 

Wrth  henwi  kyfraith  anael     ....  q 

gyrr  £enn  ith  gar  o  flonvdd./  Wiliam  llyn 

395  Cowydd  i  fab  ynillad  merch  1550 

y  ferch  fwyn  ddadl  lygatlws     ....  r 

nesa  ith  wraig  noswaith  ir  el./  hvw  arwystyl 

397   Cowydd  o  gam-arferav  eglwys-wyr.j  (1550) 

J  ddvw  yr  wyf  weddiwr     ....  s 

gair  dy  fab  a  gredaf  vi  Sion  brwynoc 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   147. 


ISO' 


400   C.  yn  canmol  telyn  rawn  ag  i  ddychanv  telyn  ledr.j 

Ro  dvw  hael  rhydav  helynt     ....  a 

J  dydd  brentisied  iw  dwyn  Jollo  goch 

403  Cotvydd  i  ofyn  telyn  dros   Sion    Trevor  Treflalmi] 
gann  Siankin  gwynn  o  Lann  fdlos.j 

Y  grymvBSwalch  gair  moessen     ....  b 
at  rwysg  ifarll  yt  teiroes  gwr                              Wiliam  llyn 

406  Cowydd  i  ofyn  pedwar  ychen  dvon 

Pa  -wyr  a  gawn  yn  Uawn  llythr     ....  c 

icb  nai  daw  ychen  dvon  Tvdvr  aled 

410  f  ofyn  merch  yn  rhodd  (i  Risiart  ILwyd  o  Lwyn  y 
maen  dros  Bhobert  Tanad) 

Y  doeth  ddewrwych  da  ith  dvriwyd     ....  d 
nim  dawr  na  bo  i  neithiawr  byth            Dd:  glyn  dyfrdwy 

413  f  yrrv  'r  glomen  i  gyrchv  Edward  Jones  o  ddiwrth  y 
Cyngur  adre  i  groesosivallt 

Y  glomeu  i  gael  amod     ....  e 
*Crist  gwyn  croesed  i  wyneb                                  Mhys  Cain 

417  7  ofyn  Mortwari  S'  Tho:  goch  gann  W"  Escob  Elwy 

Y  gwr  vrddol  geirwir  ddysc     .... 
He  biav  i  fynd  Uwybr  i  fenditb.///  Sion  Tvdvr 

421    C.  i  weddio  R.  JL.  o  lwyn  maen,  ddyfod  o  frvssel  adre 

Y  galon  gron  glain  i  gwres     .     . 
If  dir  i  dad  adre  del  / 

425  Doevthvm  ddvw  sul  diwaethaf  Ac, 

426  Merddin  wyllt  am  ruw  ddyn  wyf     ....  i 
merddin  aeth  mowrddawn  i  •wedd 

mewn  gwydi-  er  mwyn  i  gydwedd 

od  aeth  oedd  adwyth  iddi 

y  drws  yw  hoi  a  droes  hi     .... 

ai  cbael  o  fodd  i  chalou  Jeuan  dyfi, 

429  Cowydd  i  ddiolch  am  bavn  i  Tomas  tanad 

Da  i  bob  peth  difeth  dyfiad     ....  k 

vn  lliw  glan  oil  y w  i  gloc 

a  llwyn  o  dir  meillionoc     .... 

gerdd  a  gwawd  am  edn  gwyrdd  gwych  Wiliam  llyn 

432   Cowydd  i  ofyn  cy  mod  gann  M'  W"  grtiffydd 

karnarfon  hen  gofion  gwyr     ....  ,  I 

ar  Haw  gennwch  iarll  gwynedd  „  „ 

Tri  oedran  hoiwlan  helynt     ....  m 

yn  y  bedd  o  diwedd  da  Sion  hent 

Y  glaer  faith  wybr  eglur  tawr     . 
gowrain  benn  yn  goron  byd 

439  Moliant  Gmen  frewy  aiffynnon 

Y  ferch  wen  f v  r  y  cliMianee     . 
aed  yw  nofio  /  r  /  dyn  afiach 
ef  ar  naill  ain  farw  ain  iach 
ynghor  yn  iork  ne  nghaer  nonn 
i  gorffenno  gav  /r/  fiynonn 

443       Nid  bwrdiaw  o  daw  vn  dydd  &c 


/ 


Wiliam  llynn 
See  p.  194  above.  h 


435 


437 


t  W"  ap  sion  ap  dd: 


Tudur  aled 
See  piss  above.  p 


*  Page  415  appears  to  be  in  the  hand  of  Robert  Vaughan  and  page  416  is  blank. 
t  This  is  equated  with  William  Kynwai  in  a  later  hand. 


190:  MOSTYN !  MMUSCEIPT   147. 

445  Cowydd  i  eiriol  kymod  rhwng  {Rys  or    Towyn  a    Gr; 
Fychan  o  Feirionydd  1^§o) 
Damwain  hlin  ywr  byd  yma     ....  a 

ai  roi  ar  iarll  penfro  ir  wyf  Deio  ap  ifan  dv 

448   Cowydd  i  ymwrthod  a  balchder.j 

Ond  rhyfedd  mewn  taer  ofyn     ....  b 

am  faddav  yn  kam  foddion  Wiliam  kynwal 

451   Cowydd  i  ofyn  gordderch  a  thelyn — see  p.  506  below. 

karF  merched  am  kiiriai     ....  c 

niwr  dduw  oedd  waeth  na  ddoer  ddyn         syr  dd:  Trefor 

454       Be  daf  oedd  y  byd  a  fv  d 

bai  oedd  heb  i  wybyddv     .... 
a  nef  in  eneidie  /  n  /  ol.///     Gr:  ap  lefan  ap  HJn  Fachan 

458  Cowydd  i  Fathav  abad  y  inwythig. 

Mi  a  ethvm  ir  mwythig     ....  e 

tir  fferym  gvtto  ywr  ffored./////      ■  Gvttor  glyn 

460  Cowydd  i  ofyn  Crythor  yn  rhodd 

Y  gwr  Ilea  dwc  ieirll  yn  dol     ....  / 

od  a  i  adwedd  da  ydyw :  ///  Gryjffydd  ap  fevan 

463       Gwr  klaf  ydiw  syr  dafvdd     ....  g 

geifr  blithion  gwnlon  a  gaf 
llaetb  gafr  nid  oes  Uith  gyfryw 
y  mon  i  fab  o  myn  fyw     .... 
nar  geifr  fytk  nar  gwr  i  fon.////  Syr  dauydd  trefor 

466  Atteb  i  Syr  D.  Trevor,  person  o  Lann  Allgo 

pa  berson  pwy  a  byrsiodd     ....  h 

amen  na  geifr  na  mynod         Gr:  ap  tudyr  ap  howel  ofon 

468  Bost  y  bardd  pan  aeth  o  Jiaen  yr  holl  ystad  ynghladded- 

igaethy  twysog  lywelyni  roi  i  geinog  offrwm  yn  gyntaf 

Howel  an  aeth  mab  maeth  medd    ...  i 

wrth  raid  in  enaid  amen.////  ieuan  ap  Rydderch 

ap  ifan  llwyd  o  sir  Aber  teifi  o  gorjf  Hari  iv. 

473       kefais  i  rodd  kofvs  ras     ....  k 

am  ir  hoi  ym  or  hiain  Gwilim  ap  Jfan  hen 

475  Kowydd  y  seren  a  dywynodd  ywch  ben  trefilir  yn  Mr 
mon  pan   aned  marred  v^    dd:  vychan  ap  dd: 
llwyd —  mam  owain  tvdur  a  henain  hari  VJI. 
Am  y  lliw  i  mae  llawer     ....  I 

ag  ar  fav  ar  chwedl  gorfod  iolo  goch 

477       Eo  dvw  yaX  raid  i  gwiliaw     ....  m 

kaled  wyd  kelwydd  koelieh  dd:  ap  gwilim 

479  Anfon  IL'n  ap  gutun  yn  llatai  at  Werfvl  fychan 

klaf  wyf  eisie  kael  y  ferch     ....  n 

ar  fol  bol  y  baiol  bid  Dauidd  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr: 

481  Atteb:  kenad  wyf  awna  kynen     ....  o 

iw  sorw  i  was  o  vrien.////  llywelyn  ap  gutun 

483       Eirchiad  yn  siarad  y  sydd     ....  p 

oes  dalm  ai  klyw  ystlvm  kler  ////  D.  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr: 

485       Dafvdd  llwyd  ofydd  y  llv     .     .     .     .  q 

gwyn  i  fyd  y  byd  or  bedd.////  llywelyn  ap  gutyn 

487       Da  man  kyff  dewi  mynyw     ....  r 

a  dar  byd  nid  a  ir  bedd  Dauydd  llwyd 


MOSTYN   MANUSCBIFT   147.  191 

490       Mae  gwr  im  dirrajgv  i     .     .     .     .  a 

arched  ben  eirchiad  y  byd.////  llywelyn  ap  gutun 

492  Cowydd  i  ofyn  Rys  grythor  gann  Sion  Tvdvr 

Y  bardd  iowndrefn  bwrdd  windravl     ....  b 

rrys  yn  wr  prya  dop  yr  rrod  Wiliam  kynwal 

494  Atteb :  Y  bardd  gwynn  ebrwydd  ganiad     ....  c 

i  gyd  i  rhof  gida  rrys.////  Sion  Ttldiir 

497  Ir  ormesfwyfae'r  holl-fwyd.j 

klowch  son  megis  kloch  sais     ....  d 

anysc  oedd  ym  nasgwydwn,////  Syr  letoys  meudtcy 

499  Atteb:  Syr  lewis  velys  i  fwyd     ....  e 

di  fwyd  yw  duy  dy  fevdwy.///  Syr  phylip  emlyn 

501   Cowydd  dyn  oedd  ydifar  ganddo  briodi  gwraig  ddrwg 

Mawr  oedd  hap  gwr  adnapai f 

moddion  gwael  madde  i  ni  gyd  ////  Rys  ap  Hari 

505  Uoed  wyr  meius  ar  deid  ir  mor     ....  g 
damvnodd  vn  oi  roddion 

hiiw  lewis  ap  ai  roi  i  sion     .... 

die  wyf  nato  duw  i  gael  ////  Robert  leiaj^ 

506  Atteb  dros  syr  wiliam  gryifydd  i  gowydd p.  /^Sl 

Syr  dauydd  ywenydd  wyd     ...  h 

yw  bowyd  arall  o  biav  Gr:  ap  Tudur  ap  howel 

508       Madyn  Iwynog  yn  agos  i  leidrad     ....  i 

dydd  a  fedr  dy  wddw  fadyn  Rys  goch  or  yri 

513  J  Mr:  Rissiart  llwyd  o  Iwyn  y  maen 

kroeso  r  dewr  kwrs  aurdarian     ....  k 

y  dewr  llwyd  benadvr  Uv  Edward  glyn 

Dau  gywydd  ymrysson  rrwng  S.  brwynog  a  G.  Hiraethog 
516       Mai  mudrwr  ami  y  medrych     ....  I 

yn  oes  tcgaingl  nis  tigia  ////  Grijffydd  hiraethog 

519       Mae  gwr  yn  magu  araith     ....  m 

gwelwch  yn  dwyn  y  galon.////  Sion  brwynoc 

Ymrysson  rrwng  Syr  R.powelfferiad  o  wrexam  ag  Ed:  maelor 

522       kwyno  yn  wir  nid  ksnv  awnaf     ....  n 

trwbl  gan  nid  trebl  a  geni  Syr  Robert  powel 

526       Pwy  sy  ar  awen  ganghenawg     ....  o 

a  throed  i  mendio  wrth  ras.////  Edward  maelor 

528  f  ofyn  rrwyd  byscotta  i  Je:  ap  Tydder  ap  gr:  lloyd 

]fevan  dda  o  fewn  i  ddydd     ....  p 

a  cherdd  hwdiwch  erddi.//  Meredydd  ap  Rys 

531  Marwnad  Syr  Jeuan  lloyd  o  fal 

Och  ]fessu  wir  y  chwessir     ....  o 

mwy  i  bris  fo  /  r  /  mab  ar  i  ol  Rys  hain 

534  Marwnad  Tvdvr  llwyd  o  Jal 

Mawr  yw  pwys  duw  marw  post  ]fal     ....  r 

dyro  nef  i  deirn  o  ^al  Tudvr  aled 

537  Marwnad  fevan  llwyd  o  fal 

Dydd  oer  £u  ar  duedd  ial     .     ,     .     .  s 

fath  y  neb  aeth  fyth  yn  benn./  Sion  Tudur 

541   Kowidd  Sion  llwyd  o  Jal 

Y  llwyd  arial  Hew  dewrwych     ....  t 

^  chy  chwi  ssion  chwechoes  hydd  Simovn  vychan 


192  MOSTyN   MANUSCRIPT   147. 

643  Kowydd  i  John  llwyd  o  Jal 

Af  yr  wyl  i  vawr  olyd     ....  a 

a  chwe  einioes  ich  wyneb  John  Ttidder 

546  Kowydd  y  Twr  yn  Jal 

Y  ddar  fraisc  o  ddarfrysgoed     ....  J 

a  theiroes  ir  vath  dderwenn  Gruff:  hiraethoc 

549  f  S'  John   llwyd   iw    groeso   adref  or    Werddon  ag  i 
gwyno   iddaw  i  golled  o   varwolaeth   S'    Thomas 
Egerton  /  1599 
Jmp  ynyr  am  hap  anial     ....  e 

gras  h-wnn  byth  ath  groeso  /  n  /  benn  Rys  kain 

553  Moliant  S'  John  lloyd  o  Jal 

T  Hew  gyrradd  ifarll  gariad     ....  d 

llawen  wyd  yn  gannllaw  /  n  /  ^aith  (1.  42.)  #  #  *  *  * 

555   {Pennillion  "y   Coggio" — (18tli  century) 

I  ba  bath  y  gwnaed  y  byd     ....  g 

e  wyr  y  gwr  a  wnaeth  y  gan  j  beth  Coggio.)  Anon 


KowYBEu  Thomas  Prts  vel  Price.- 

559  J  ofyn  march  i  W"  Wyn  ag  i  Elis  ap  Thomas  Vychan 
dros  Robt:  Peilyn 
T  keirw  sy  fawr  /  i  /  kariad     ....  / 

tra  fo  march  mewn  trefi  maith 

562  Marwnad  Elis  ap  Thomas  Vychan  pan  hevrwyd  i  ladd 
worth  gerdded  nos  1539 
Trist  anap  tro  troes  duw  /  i  /  ni     .     .     .     .  a 

vnwaith  orffwysfa  yw  enaid 

565       H-wylus  wr  heliais  arian     ....  h 

yn  odrist  mi  a  ddown  adref 

567       Y  ddau  lew  iraidd  lawen     ....  « 

ych  grogi  gan  ych  gwragedd 

570       Y  dylluan  drvan  drwch     ....  h 

hofE  0  ryw  a  chan  ifarwel 
574       D^n  wysc  yn  aros  dan  wvdd  I 

yn  kadw  Sessiwn  mewn  koedvdd     .... 

yn  y  diin  hyd  awr  eirioes 

577  Kowydd  i  ofyn  tabler  i  Dauidd  Salesbury 

y  dewr  hael  lie  doe  jvj  helynt     ....  m 

o  fawl  a  gwawd  fil  oi  gwerth 

580  A  ddaw  Jownles  ddi  anlwk     ...  n 
a  ddaw  a  doed  ym  a  ddel./ 

581  Kerais  ferch  draw  iroes  a  fydd     ....  a 
ni  all  merch  ynill  y  modd 

584  Moliant  Sion  Salbri  ai  ferch  Lwlen 

Pwy  ywr  gwr  mewn  pvr  gaiiad     ....  p 

llawn  raid  pvr  weddi  llanrwst 

586       Y  vronfraith  bvr  Iwysiaith  Ian     ...     .  q 

kaiia  yn  ^ach  bellach  ir  byd 

588  ■    May  fachwyn  am  fy  iechyd     ....  r 

fo  wyr  Mair  ddryked  fyr  modd 


MOSTYN  MANUSCIIIPT   147.  193 

590      Pa  wyr  glan  pwy  piavr  glod     ....  a 

bevnydd  i  gowydd  ai  gainck  Thomas  Prys 

593       Y  karw  odiaeth  karedig     ....  b 

Yn  rhesi  ar  benn  Risiart 
596  f  ofyn  march  i  Robt:  Salbri  o  Rvg  dros  Gawen  Goodmon./ 

Y  gwr  sydd  a  gras  iddaw     .     .     .     .■  c 
an  reithiwyd  pawb  yn  Rvthyn                                         , 

600       Gweddiwn  byddwn  kynn  bedd     ....  d 

gwiw  dduw  in  ty  gweddiwn  y  tad 
603  J  yrrv  y  llamhidydd  yn  gennad  at  Pyrs  Gr:  Esquir 

Y  llamhidydd  Uym  hoywdeg     ....  e 
ras  iddo  i  mado  ar  mor 

606       Dylynais  di  wael  ennyd / 

bey  a  ship  f\  be  shepart 

609       Y  chwanen  bach  vnion  bvr     ....  g 

er  vn  mab  y  gwr  an  medd 


"612  Kowydd  a  wnaeth  Roger  Kyffin  wrth  ymadel  ai  wlad 

Troi  may  r  Rhod  trom  i  Rhediad     ....  h 

kyffin  kaerfyrddin  keir  fi  Roger  Kyffin 

614  dwyfil  oedd  werssi  dafydd  a  chwechant  t 

a  chwe  gwers  "^  ddofydd 
kant  a  haner  Uyferydd 
o  odlav  a  salmay  sydd 

615  Cowydd  y  Caecum — (18th  century) 

Fel  i  roeddwn  gwn  gwunfan     ....  k 

honiis  o  ddun  hynaws  yn  ddig  Sion  Rotsier 

616  Marwnad  Capten  William  Myddelton 

Blin  j\v  r  byd  blaenor  y  bM     ....  I 

yno  i  del  enaid  William  *  *  *  * 

620  Marwnad  Alis  Miltwn  o  vienynog 

Mae  wylo  caeth  amla  cvr     ....  m 

gwawr  orav  a  gorwyrion 
#  #  *  #  #  ar  hon    last  line  and  signature  shorn  ofiF.    #    *  *  * 
623  Moliant  Sion  Miltwn  o  waynynog 

Y  Tv  vchel  at  iechvd     ....  n 

Ag  a  ro  itt  oes  gwr  y  i,^  Owen  Gwynedd 

626  Moliant  Capten  W"  Middelton  ISgJ^ 

Twj  yVr  gwr  pvr/i/gariad     ....  o 

oth  frest  y  doeth  gorchestion 

Ai  gyrrv  yn  brint  gar  ein  bron     .... 

kelfyddyd  o  daw  byd  byth  Edward  ap  Raffe 

630  Cywydd  i  yrrv  y  Dolphyn  yn  gennad  at  i  gefnderw, 
Thos:  Wynn  a  ddyffryn  Alet 

Dvdd  da'ed  na  bo  diwedd  dig     ....  p 

hylwybr  i  /  minnav  hwylwynt  William  Middelton 

635  Marwnad  Sion  Miltwn  o  Waynynog  idsy 

Mae  oer  aliir  raaer  wylaw     ....  q 

■fawn  fV  /  i  ran  'n  nef  fry  Hvw  Machno 

638       Bid  felln  o  by  ond  bydd  amgenacb  &c.  Anon   r 

e    87130.  » 


a 


194  MOSTtN'  MANtJSCRIPT  ■  147,  "^ 

639  (Meddylion  trymion  am  troes,  I  wylo     .     .     .     ;■ 
Dydi  a  fodlonest  dy  Dad)  Hugh  Morris 

640  Marwnad  Wiliam  miltwn  o  wenynog  16S1 

O  dvw  gwyn  ai  da  gynid     ....  r 

oeri  sir  am  aer  i  sion     .... 

hiroes  y  w  blant  ai  wyrion                       Davydd  nan  kpnwy 
Marwnadeu  Mr:  Sion  miltwn  o  waynvnock 
643       Torai  .  ddvw  .  trawodd  .  wewyr p 

dwyn  .  mab  .  a  .  thad  .  kwyniad  .  kant  . 

yr  .  vn  .  flwyddyn  .  aflwyddiant    .... 

OS  .  e  .  pam  .  na  .  ddyge  .  sion      Signature  cut  off  by  tinder 
645       O  dvw  gwyn  dvo  gwynedd     ....  ^ 

ai  deg  wedd  yn  Haw  dvw  gwyn  „ 

650       Gwael  yw  /  n  /  byd  gloi  yn  /y/  bedd    ....  e 

yn  Haw  dvw  aeth  He  da  i  wr  Harry  Bowel 

654       Trees  dvoer  hwyl  trist  yw  rhawg    ....  f 

deiroes  ir  hvdd  dros  aer  hwn  ' Sion  lain  l631 

658  Treth  faith  treth  nawaith  treth  newydd  g 

Tieth  fawr,  treth  foru  a  threnydd 

Trethi  fil  aeth  trwu  gilidd  • 

Treth  treth  hyd  at  feth  y  fydd  Anon 

b.  Na  fydd  anfwyn  wrth  fwyn  oth  fodd  &c./  „     h 

c.  Hwsmonaeth  berffaeth  sy  braf  &c.  R.  M.    i 

659  Duw  nhad  duw  ngheidwad  duw  nghader     ....  k 
duw  Iwyd  (cUw  ni)  duw  Iwyd                        Roger  Miltwn 

660  ffor  the  could  in  a  horse.  " 

b.       fFynon  marchogion  mawr  yw  y  hegni     ....  / 

yn  gnwd  teg  o  wynn  gnawd  honn  Hugh  Morice 

661  fr  Bud  :  Duw  /  n  /  sylwedd  da  in  seHyd     ....  m 

gwaith  da  /  ar  /  ben  gwaeth  duw  'r  byd       Roger  Miltwn 

662  Jhon  miltwn  radlon  o  ruw    ....  n 
a  march  siwrr  a  merch  siry                                        *  *  *  * 

Dau  Gywydd  moliant^owc  Miltwn  o  wenynog 

663  Vn  miltwn  Cofiwn  da  i  kaid     ....  o 
gras  duw  rhad  drwy  grist  ai  rhoes                 Harry  howel 

667  Pur  fiynnadwg  fEwyfwy  fydd    ....  p 
el  iw  plith  au  hil  ai  plaid                                  Harri  howel 

668  (Deuben  y  fuom  diball  &c.)  Anon  q 

669  Cowydd  priodas  Shion  Miltwn  o  Waeni/nog 

Eiliaf  foliant  cofiant  Cain     ....  r 

oes  naw  gwell  i  sion  ac  An  Harri  Howel  l66/^ 

673  ffarwell  ly  Armida  fy  Alaith.  am  hovn    .....  * 
tywelltais  fy  ewHys  vychben  ych  bedd  gorag 

Robin  winne  y  midan 

674  Medical  recipes  in  English.  i 

675  Englynion  ji  I ddychany  Mr:  Dryars  o ruddlan  am ladd 

yshyfarnog  o  flain  beglegwn  Mr:  John  wynne  or 

gop  ai  chuddio  yn  i  glos  Sfc. 
Poine  drwg  syn  bwi  /  n  /  dre  yn  helayth     ....  t 

a  mwya  baw  yn  y  byd  Anon 


MQSTYJI,  MANUSCRIPT  ,147,  195 

676  A  letter  fr(3in  Roger TMCyddelton  written  at  his  "Lodgeings  in 
tfee  Castle  w^^in  fort  St.  George  12°  January  1658."  The  letter  gives 
details  of  being  shipwrecked  twice  and  of  other  narrow  escapes,  and 
the  writer  mentions  that  he  commands  100  white  and  500  natives  in 
the  service  of  the  East  India  Company. 

680      Aeth  deuddwr  gylerwr  maen  eglurus  brud  &c.  a 

b:       Oes  wehudd  /  n  /  unlle  mor  odieth  ar  rwude  &c.  b 

c.  ng  wydir  bybir  fo  bibodd  y  gwely  &c.       -K.  TV.  y  midan  c 

d.  Marwnadffowh  Miltwn  o  Waenynog  20  August  l66g 

Dyma  fyd  tra  enbyd  trwch     ....  d 

ir  afieth  mawr  fyth    Amen  Matthew  Owen 

686  An  Elegy  tojffoulke  Myddleton    20  Atigst .  1669 

Shall  J  sing  tell  me  my  Muse  e 

or  else  refuse  that  fancy 

and  turne  my  pen  without  excuse 

to  better  use  than  Poetry     .... 

to  see  thy  face  in  glory  dicit  H.  0. 

690  This  page  has  the  names  of  John,  Roger,  Humphrey,  ffoulke,  Charles, 
Samuel,  George  and  Timothy  Myddleton. 

691  jf  g(^o  pwi  oedd  y  shery*  a  henwai  j  r  j  shonniad  afv 

ar  I  r  I  *  *  quest  yn  y  flwiddyn  16^1  Mai  /  r  /  Sfed. 
py  medrwn  mynwn  im  min     ....  f 

Mai  /  r  /  Midan  yn  ymado  Robin  Winne  y  Midan 

693       bvr  wavd  ovdd  dy  byri'odas     ....  g 

i  lys  y  nefol  5fesv./  Tho:  Preice.j 

h.       Dydd  da  ir  Uwynog  or  ogof     ....  h 

pharwel  rhaid  ym  pho  ir  alht  (Huw  llwyd  Cynwal) 

695  Atteh — Cyngoriroen:  Y  gwirion  Lwdwn  r.hownllaes  .   .     .    i 
a  rein  heddwch  ir  enaid  ffoulke  Frees 

700  duw  ngwlad  duw  ngariad  duw  ngerydd     ....  k 
dduw  fymswyn  i  dduw  f  amser                       Roger  Miltwn 

701  Gelfyn  mowionyn  mwy  winog  nar  sarfF  &c.      Gr:  ap  jfeu:   I 

b.  kaeth  Rywliad  eirad  ynn  arwain     ....  m 
karchar  kaeth  yn  kyrchyr  kwn                                 Robt:  llyn 

c.  Pwyts  ffiewtrer,  ofer,  rhifwn  was  difiog  &c.        Jo:  Pieres  n 

d.  Mewn  dyblig  nis  trig  naws  dragwn     ....  o 
lie  daw  /  r  /  ene,  lladronaidd                                    ffol:  lloyd 

702  Gossod  ysdyllod  megis  dilliav  /n/  rhwym     ....  n 
berr  yw  a  hir  lie  bo  rhaid                           Thomas  penllyn 

b.  Chwynnoc  naws  bywioc  ysbiaw  kwn     ....  q 
klwyd  goed  kaled  yw  i  gwn                       dd  goch  brydydd 

c.  Daselav  dwysav  hin  desaill  trossod     ....  r 
gefel  gas  gofal  i  gwn                                        Roger  hyffyn 

703  *****  gynwys  gainf     ....  s 
diau  iw  i  doi  owen 

drwy  ddyn  bawb  drwy  dduw  'n  ben  Owen  Gwynedd 

(JRob:  Pary  ey  caint  ■I6S6') 

*  Mutton  Davis  o  lannerch.  t  Imperfect  in  several  places. 

N  2 


196  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  147. 

706  Dyrieu  o  gyngor  i  ferch  i  geisiogivr  Cyn  myndyn  hen 

Mi  a  fum  gint  yn  llances  hoiw     ....  a 

»#»*#*•*   altrio — imperfect.  *  #   •  « 

707  Cowydd  diolch  Sion  Miltwn  o  Waenynog  am  Dderwen 

a  roes  i  Eglivys  Nanclyn  l6()1 
Hofi  iraidd  deflFro  Awen     ....  J 

do  do  •  »  *  *  #  dau  ffoulke  Wynne  o  Nanclyn 

709  [How  to  m]ake  an  exclent  Cake. 

710  A  recipe  for  "  all  stoppage  of  the  Liuer  "  &c. 

711  Marwnad  Mr:  Thomas  Price 

Och  gwyn  gwlad  och  gan  gledi     ....  g 

Can  ddiball  can  ei  Dduw  byth  Thomas  Prys  Esq' 

715  Marwnad  Edward  Marys  or  Perthi  SJwydion 

Briw  gofid  braw  a  gefais     ....  rf 

Glana  swydd  i  gael  enw  Sant  Hugh  Morus 

719  Pont  gorwen  glaerwen  glirwaith     ....  e 
Tres  ryfedd  tros  yr  afon                                          „        , 

720  Cywydd  i  yrru'r  Scyfarnog  yn  gennad  at  yr  Heltoyr 

T  bryfes  gynnes  geinach     ....  f 

oes  Battent  ir  yspytty        *  Thomas  Price 

723  Marwnad  Ellis  Prys 

Torrwyd  om  perllan  taurwaith     ....  g 

i  Lus  y  nefol  lesu  Thomas  Price  l6lO 

725  Hi  aeth  f'Anwylyd,  yn  Glan  gaia,     ....  h 
end  un  ILath  o  fcewis  ofer                  Mr:  Lewis  Offeiriad 

726  Nam  blysia  gwilia  gweli  &c.  i 

b.  Nim  cipia  un  gwrda  gywirdeb  &c.  k 

c.  Dedwydd  iw  i  gwr  a  gymero  rybydd     ....  I 
fel  y  gwnaeth  oi yfaid 


MS.  148.  Cywybeu  AC  Odleu:  paper;  llf  x  7f  inches;  950 
pages ;  bound  in  Russia  leather.  Though  this  manuscript  is  the  work 
of  many  hands,  stiU  two  are  veiy  distinctive : — that  on  pages  33-70, 
145-76,  254-431  is  bold,  firm,  and  in  black  ink,  while  that  on  pages 
214-15,  448-596,  635-76,  678-87  is  more  antique  in  style,  feeble, 
and  in  very  pale  ink.  Both  these  hands,  as  well  as  those  that  intervene 
up  to  page  692,  were  written  before  James  Dwn  inscribed  two  Englynion 
and  his  name  on  that  page  in  1594.  On  page  710  we  are  told  that 
"  John  Bodwrda  pie  y  llever  ymma,"  and  page  705  contains  the  names 
of  John,  William,  Marget,  and  Jane  Bodwrda.  In  1603,  Ed:  Wynne, 
and,  in  1604,  John  Wynne,  sign  their  names  (p.  336),  while  pages  171 
and  525,  attest  that  "Hugh  Wine  is  the  tru  honor  of  this  booke 
witnes  by  mee  John  Wine  1647."  Other  names  occur  such  as ,"  Hugh 
Kobert  ap  William  "  (p.  318)  ;  «  M'  Hughe  Thomas  maior  of  llanrwst " 
(p.  462);  "Richard  Wynn"  (p.  627);  "  Gr.  Uoyd"  (p.  705); 
"  Will'm  lloyd  "  (p.  706)  ;  "  ed ward  Williams  "  and  «  Robin  Stodart  alias 
Gwenindiw"  (p.  711);  "John  Owen  gent:  at  Uenenie"  [=CleDenie] 
(p.  734)  ;  "Robtwynne"  (pp.  947-48)  ;  "Robert  Stodart"  (p.  948); 
and  "  Robert  Winne  1622"  (p.  949).  Pages  17-18,  20-32,  177-80, 
432-33,  717-20,  742-936,  946-47  aro  blank. 


MOSTYN  MANtrSCBIPT   148. 


197 


1  ffenwae  j  y  j  prydyddion  /  a  /  wnaeth  I  y  I  gerdd  kynwysedig 
yn  y  ILyfyr  yma 

5      A  table  of  contents  written  on  vellum. 
19  Ltma  LTF7R  Mr:  ROBERT  Wynne  or  Berth  ddv  Esqr.  .• 
Aer  Mr:  Hugh  Wynne  Esqr:   wyr  Gryffyth  Wynne  Esq: 
ap  Sion  Wynne  a'mhredydd  o  wydir  SfC. — in  a  late  hand. 

33       Eys  a  gynnail  Rwysc  Einion 
nesa  i  vair  Annea  vo 

35  Klefychu'n  gaeth  a  wnaethvm     .     . 
Lowri  ai  gall  lawer  gwyl 

36  Moliant  Wiliam  ap  GruffMd 

Mae  gwahawdd  ym  a  gohir     .     .     . 
i  hwn  eilwaith  hen  wilym 

38  Moliant  Tomas  Salusbun 

Mi  a  wn  lie  mae  vn  Uys     .... 
oessoedd  vnben  swydd  ddinbych 

40      herod  wyf  hoewrad  afael     .... 
egni  Hew  roi  kyn  lleied 

43  Moliant  Mredydd  ap  howel 

Ni  ffery  stad  na  ffwrs  dyn     .     .     . 
bywr  y  gwr  a  bair  i  garv — imperfect. 

46  Ef  piawr  byd  kyd  kydnerth     .     . 
gida  mair  i  gyd    amea 

Moliant  Jeuan  ap  Roht:  ap  Meredudd 

47  Y  ban-  vwchel  eb  rychor     .     . 
etc  del  iti  dalaith 

49      Y  rhyswr  hir  i  asen     .... 
klochdu  hoU  gymru  ai  gwyr 

51       Y  twr  o  robert  eryr     ... 
ar  arf  wenn  euro'r  vonwes 

53      hir  ibv  rvffvdd  rvddbar 

waywdan  vab  kynau  yn  kar 
Ymgais  ni  wn  i  amgen 

56  Kywydd  i  Davudd  ap  Jenkin 

Cannes  daed  kynes  dadail     .     . 
wyth  goed  a  d^w  ath  geidw  di 

59  Kywydd  i  Rys  ap  sion 

Pand  hir  na  welir  ond  nos     . 
o  bydd  fyth  wrth  ych  bodd  fo 

61  Moliant  Robart  Salbri 

Mastr  Robart  Rymys  dribwrdd     .     . 
teiroes  hefyd  rysefwr 

64  Moliant  E/yweni  Uys  Robert  Salbri 
Y  llys  teg  mawr  llesad  dyn     .     ,    . 
pe  mwy  stor  pvm  oes  derwen 

66  Marwnad  Marred  vj,  Rys  llwyd 

duw  Iwyd  aeth  roi  bwyd  ir  bedd     . 
ai  henaid  a«th  draw  i  law  dduw  Iwyd 

71      Mae  vn  kvn  y  min  konwy     .... 
yw  gorff  ddwy  oes  gryffydd  wynu 


Jeuan  TLwyd  Brydydd 

Tudur  Penllyn 

Gutto'r  Glynn 

Tvdur  penllyn 
Gruffyth  hiraethoc 

gvttor  glyn 
Doctor  Sion  Kent 

Jeuan  ap  T4dur  penllyn 

Jeuan  ap  T4d4r  Penllyn 

} 
Howel  ap  Rinalld 

Rhes  gccfi  o  eryri 

Tudr  Penllyn 

Jerwerthfynglwyd 

Tvdvr  Aled 

HHw  ap  dd: 

Wiliam  Kynwal 
Hmo  pennant 


m 


'1-98  MOSTYN  MANtrSCRIPT  148. 

73  Kywydd  i  ofyn  grig  awn  dvr 

Od  air  i  rifo  dewrion     ....  a 

OS  a  fy  mendith  i  sion  Robin  ddv 

75  Lyme  X:  O  frodor  oil  fawr  rad  rym     ....  ft 

jng  rroes  duw  ag  yngrist  oil  Sion  ffylih 

77       Y  tad  or  dechrevad  chwyrn     ....  c 

yn  rrydd  a  chwbl  on  rraid  Doctor  Sion  cemp 

70       Dvw  sy  benn  nid  oes  neb  yweh     ....  ^ 

yn  egr  ai  pyrsie  .  n  .  weigion  Simwnd  fychan 

83   Y  byd :  Blin  y w  traUod  rrod  ar  hwnn     ....  g 

dann  oddef  yn  dwyn  iddi  Doctor  Sion  cemp 

86       Ef  a  wnaeth  panton  ar  lawr  glynn  ebron    ....  y 

ai  tro  ai  trwydded  hyd  tydd  iultina  Taliessin 

88  Kywydd  i  bais  Howel  ap  Einion  a  Goetmor 

Howel  wyd  fwyn  hael  hyd  £edd     ....  g 

ai  chynnfydd  ar  i  channfed  Jeuan  llwyd  brydydd 

90   Cowydd  i  ofyn  basslart 

Rrag  cyfing  dirfing  derfvsc     ....  h 

ys  gwyr  honn  yscorio  hydd  Rys  goch  or  yri 

93  Moliant  dafydd  llwyd  ap  dd:  a\j}'\  einion 

Dafydd  maer  beirdd  yn  dyfod     ....  i 

anhyfryd  byd  heb  dy  benn  Crvtto  '  r ,  glynn 

95   Cowydd  i  ofyn  basslart  gan  rvffydd  ap  Rys 

Tn  drifFeth  i  rwyd  rvffydd     ....  k 

triffwyth  dy  fa-sslart  rvfifydd  Gvtto  .  r  .  glynn 

98       ILyma  haf  llwm  i  hoywfardd     ....  I 

a  chliciad  yn  iach  levcv  2L'  goch  ap  mdryg  hen 

101   Cowydd  i  einion  ap  gr:  ap  howel  ap  mred:  Sfc. 

T  post  hardd  hapvs  dewrddoeth     ....  m 

ar  bawb  a  phoed  hir  i  bych  Crr:  gryg 

103       Creawdr  mawr  cry  awdvr  mwyn     ....  n 

gwae  goi-fE  a  fo  gevog  iawn  gr:  Wd  ap  dd:  ap  ein:  llygliw 

107       Cof  am  air  hyf  cam  yw  .  r  .  rrwol     ....  o 

Dev  ry w  awen  .  .  sy  .  n  .  y  byd  .  .  .  awen  .  .  grist  .... 
awen  .  .  .  i  gelwydd  bvdr  .  .  .  prydyddion  cymrv  .... 
ai  fin  attebed  y  fo  y  doctor  Sion  cent  nev  gemp 

b.  Atteb :  Torraist  orn  taeraist  arnaf     ....  P 

cent  a  aethost  meawn  ceintiach  Rys  goch  yryri 

109  ffor  hael :  O  haelder  fyner  fy  nvdd     ....  q 

ary  sydd  ara  fydd  fyth  dafydd  ap  gmlym 

110  barnad  llafar :  ^m  kvnydd  J  mae  keny    ....  '" 

enaid  y  gwyr  ond  oi  gwn  Richard  brydydd  brith 

113       Er  trevlio  pvnt  yn  llvndain     ....  s 

nath  einioes  nath  ddaioni  gutto  or  glyn 

115       Ordain  ar  y  deon  wyf     ....  i 

bedair  gwaith  ir  pedwar  gwyr  gvtto  or  glyn 

117  Marwnad  Thomas  Salbri  l/^go 

Triat  ir  beirdd  y  troes  dvw  .  r  .  byd     ....  « 

ty  dvw  sydd  yw  tad  a  Sion  Gyttyw  ywai'n 


MOSTYN  MAN0SCEIPT  148.  199 

119  Marwnad  farll  Penvro  IS'^O 

Poen  yw  advyd  penyd  vawr     ....  « 

ai  fab  yn  ^arll  fo  byw .  n  .  wr  Willimn  llyn 

122  Marwnad  Lowri  vy  howel  a  gwraig  Rys  ap  mredydd 

Dynion  Glynn  Ebron  obry     ....  h 

tai  Rys  ai  blant  ar  i  hoi  Howel  Reinalld 

Marwnadeu  i  Rys  lloyd  ap  gr:  ap  Einion  vachan  or 
gydros,  ac  i  Angharad  i  wraig 
124      Troes  y  niwl  tros  hen  aelwyd     ....  c 

glain  avr  yn  y  golav  nef  Lewis  man 

126      blin  yw  trin  y  blaned  trwch     ....  d 

y  del  J  Rys  dal  i  rodd        Rich:  ap  ho:  ap  dd:  ap  Eynion 

128      Beth  a  gwyn  byth  y  gweiniaid     ....  e 

fry  a  J  nef  ar  vn  naid  Wiliam  Alaw 

130  K.  yn  dangos  lie  rhoes  Thomas  hen  u  salbri  J  dair  merched 

Di  alaeth  fv  dalaith  fon     ....  / 

a  byw  f o .  r  .  -f ach  heb  varw  vn  davydd  ap  Edmwnd 

132  Moliant  Sion  wyn  ap  mredydd  o  wedir 

Pavn  pur  hael  pwy  .  n  .  peri  hedd     ....  g 

maith  einioes  yma  ith  wyneb  Gryffydd  Hiraethog 

Kywyddeii  moliant  Robert  ap  Rys 

135      Pwy  /n/  J  gwin  pann  J  ganed     ....  k 

a  chav  .  mhob  pwynt  chwi  mhob  peth  Lewis  Mon 

137       Y  lien  im  oes  Unwen  mawr     ....  i 

ty  bawb  yd  went  ty  bob  dyn  „         „ 

139      Y  pennaeth  hap  'j  wyneb     ....  k 

koffae  dduw  kaffo  ddwyoes  „ 

141  Marwnad  angharad  llwyd 

Tair  gawr  awnair  llawr  yn  llwch     ....  i 

ysy .  nghor  jfessv  .  ngharad 
143  Kowydd  i  owain  Tvdvr  yngharchar 

Gwyddwn  dewi  a  goddef    ....  ,yj 

yn  Rhydd  i  ben  mynydd  mon      Jeu:  gethin  ap  J.  lleison 
145  Marwnad  Tomas  vychan  or  pant  glas 

Toiwyd  llwyn  troed  llawenydd     ....  ^ 

Y  karw  /n/  ifevanke  ir  nefoedd  William  llyn 
147  Marwnad  Howel  ap  llywelyn  ai  wraig 

Y  ddavddyji  a  ddiweddwyd     ... 

heb  wannhav  meibion  howel  '     "         Rys  Pennarth 

149  Moliant  Jevan  ab  Einion 

Y  gwrda  o  gowirdeb     .     .     . 

yw  tuedd  fry  hyd  dydd  frawd  Gvto  or  Glynn 

151  Kywydd  hymod  fuan  vychan 

Sain  kristofEer  a  fu  /  n  /  ofirwm     ....  g 

ar  fynghefn  aer  vynghyfoeth  Gvto  or  glynn 

Kywyddeu  Moliant  rys  amhredydd 

154  Y  ty  ni  ffy  oddiar  y  ffordd     ....  ,- 
Iwyr  a  Rwng  lowri  a  Rys                           Tiidvr  Pennllyn 

155  Pwy  biav  gwaed  pibav  gwin     ....  s 
a  dv  a  roes  ')  dir  ^al            ,                                 Tudvr  aled 


200 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   148 


160 


163 


Kywyddeu  moliant  Mr:  Robart  ap  Rys  ap  Mredydd 
157       Ar  y  tir  eroed  derwea     .... 
ar  peunaf  wyt  er  pann  fv 

Argoel  vndyn  mae  /  r  /  gleindyd 
yd  ddydd  brawd  diwedd  brevder 

Gruffvdd  beisrvdd  bowysran     . 
a  gwin  yn  nannav  agaf 

165  Marwnad  Annes  Wenn  o  gwchillan 
Oer  yw  dylyn  ar  dalaith     .     . 
i  Annes  wenn  yno  sydd 

167  Mon  :  Nos  da  ir  ynys  dowell     . 
a  dwy  einioes  yw  dynion 

169  Meddmon:  fo  baid  y  doethiaid  gymdeithion  &c. 

170  Annerch  i  syr  tomas  salbri 

Ystiwart  rros  a  dart  rrvdd     .... 
odid  byw  wedi  dy  ben 

175  This  page  should  follow  page  146. 

176  Marwnad  Reinallt  Conwy — lines  1—11  only. 

Mae  .  r  .  glaw  byth  mawr  o  gloi  bedd  &c, 

181  Marwnad  Siancyn  ap  Gwilytn 
Dydd  ar  vaes  diwedd  oer  vu 


lewis  daron 

Tiidvr  aled 

Tud'  Penllyn 


Simwnt  vauchan 

e 
L.  glynn  Cothi 

Bog:  Kyffin  f 

9 
Tudyr  Aled 


183 


185 


187 


am  graig  vawr  y  mor  Groec  vo/       Gwilim  ap  Jevan  hen 
Mawr  ywr  dysc  yma  mayr  da     ...     .  k 

i  venni  yr  af  inav  Gvtto  or  glynn 

Ryvedd  ydiw  arveddyd     ....  I 

o  daw  Rac  hir  drigaw  hwn       Ho:  ap  dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rees 


CrVtto  I  or  Gly.n 

Deio  ap  Jeiian  dv 

Gutto  y  Glynn 


llowdden 


Mredydd  ai  yma  /  r  /  ydwyd     . 
moes  farcb  ac  arch  a  fo  gwell 

189       Damwain  blin  ywr  byd  yma     . 
ai  roi  ar  ^arll  penvro  rwyf 

191       Elen  aur  lien  or  llanerch     .     . 
llenn  arglwyddes  y  llanerch 

193       pa  wrol  ion  pvr  i  wledd     .     .     . 
bavn  y  gwin  yn  ben  gwynedd 

195  Tristach  yw  kymrv  trostyn 
tre  a  gwlad  am  vtto  or  glyn 

i  foddi  raeth  i  draeth  heb  drai 

mae  yn  y  nef  am  na  nofiai     .... 

y  naill  ai  dduw  ai  yn  Haw  ddiawl        llywelyn  ap  gvttyn 

196  Na  ddadwrdd  ar  fwrdd  fal  oferddyn  &c.  Anon 

197  Atteb :  Mae  Uef  oer  mae  Uifeiriant 

i  von  y  try  venaid  traw 

199       Chwerddais  am  ben  sals  or  sir     . 
aeth  milwr  devddwr  ar  dj'dd 

201       duw  i  gynnal  dy  gynnydd     .     . 
cymer  di  o  mjnni  mwy 

203       Kodd  f raise  a  gair  heddyw  fry     . 
hv\v  konwy  varch  hacknai  fydd 

205       Y  gwyr  darvu  yn  vn  naid     .     , 
ach  bodd  ywr  ddwyrodd  eraill 


Gitto  r  Glynn 


Jenan  ap  Gr:  leiaf 
Robt:  leiaf 


Howel  Kilan 


MOSTYN  MANUSCEIPT   148. 


201 


dd:  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  Ch: 

Lewis  Mon 
JexMii  ap  Tudr  penllyn 

Rhys  goeh  glynn  dyfrdwy 

Tuder  aled 


Tudr  Penllyn 


207       Mae'r  goron  y  mric  eryr     .     . 

hari  sydd  hiroes  iddo  . 
209      Bit  ry  wan  boetri  enyd 

bid  bwlch  »r  wybodau  byd     . 

y  pen  oedd  vo  pan  oedd  vyw 
212      Tir  a  adwyd  rhwng  tri  dyn     . 

tidav  avr  at  y  dewrion 

214      Carw  serch  y  cowiriaid 

siancynn  arthvr  ynn  wrth  raid 
dy  gar  a  ddiylch  dy  gwn 

216  Marumad  thomas  Konwy 

Ba  herwydd  na  bai  hiraeth     .     .     . 
konwey  ifank  i  nefoedd 

219  Koviydd  i  gryffyth  fychan  y  saer 

Pwy  a  wnaeth  ond  vn  pen  iav     . 
twr  gwyn  bendigid  tvw  /  r  /  gwaith 

220  T  Hew  byw  rym  He  i  bae  raid     .... 

bid  i  chwi  barch  byd  ich  byw        Morys  ap  feuan  ap  egh 

223      Ba  wr  ymhais  Abram  hen     .... 

J  hoed  duw  yt  yr  Iiet  o  Jork      Gr:  ap  Jeu:  ap  ll'n  vychan 

Moliant  William  ap  Win:  ap  Gr: 
225      Af  i  wynedd  i  fyny     .... 
William  ap  wiliam  y  boch 

228      Pa  wyr  a  gais  hwpio  /  r  /  gwynt     . 
meirch  gan  benn  marchogion  byd 

231      Yn  penn  meisdr  piav  /  n  /  mwsdriaw 
mato  duw  nad  tydi  a  el 

233      T  gwr  gidag  avr  gadwyn     .... 
saf  0  ddiar  sy  fyw  o  ddyn 

236  Kowydd  i  gapdenn  Wiliam  siambrlenn 

Mynydd  yr  havl  maen  ddv  /  r  /  hawg 

onid  vn  a  dav  wyneb — ?  imperfect. 
239  Marwnad  Sion  ab  proisier 

Blin  ydiw  gan  blaenedav     .     . 

a  Roi  nef  ir  hwn  aeth 
242  Marwnad  Sion  wynn 

krochlais  vur  kriaw  awchlym     . 

Jessv  i  nef  a  ssion  wynn 
247  "  Prior  wyd  Jvor  davudd" 

Pwy  biau  r  dysc  pawb  ar  dol 

Yr  af  inau  roi  venaid 
249  Marwnad  hvw  lewys 

fynghoel  oedd  ar  fynghleddav 

hvw  banner  nos  hwn  ai  /  r  /  nef 
252  Moliant  Jeuan  ap  Robert 

vn  wyt  ai  arf  wna  tes     . 

ehvn  vo  ladd  vn  ne  ddav 

254  Myn  fenaid  may  yn  fwyneb     . 
mwyuen  ym  ai  min  a  wnaeth 

255  Marwnad  Sion  ap  madog 

Wylofys  wy  fal  afon     .... 

a  chynnydd  or  VTreichionen  Gvtto  or  Glynn 


f 


Gruffith  hiraethog 
Lewys  Mon 
Lewys  monn 

i 

Lewis  Mon 


Rys  goch  o  lyn  dyfr  dwy 

Stmwnt  vychan 

■     •     .     .  ( 

Lewis  Daron 

Lewys  mon 

Jeuan  ap  Twdur  penllyn 
Morys  ap  Rys 


W2  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   148. 

258      Torraist  orn  &c.     See  p.  107,  b.  a 

261  Kowydd  i  erchi  kwrwgl 

meddylio  i  ddwyf  om  nwyfiant     ....  5 

a  gyfir  ddychan  fydd  rhan  rhai        Ivan  vi/"  ap  J,  ap  adda 

263       Teimlwr  gwy  teml  ior  gwiwrent  g 

Thommas  post  a  gwanas  gwent     .... 
bredin  brwydr  gwin  brodir  gwent  Gvtto  or  Glynn 

266  Atteb  i  Ivan  vychan 

Ysdod  hir  wastad  hoywrym     ....  ^ 

eled  i  gerdded  ag  ef  Meredydd  ap  Rys 

269  Atteb  i  Mred:  ap  Rys 

dihareb  gwir  o  hirynt     ....  g 

i  hawl  o  gwna  oyd  a  hi         Jvan  vychan  ap  Jv:  ap  adda 

272       heiniar  adfydig  hynwyf     ....  f 

devddyn  ni  bwyf  hyn  na  hwynt  ll'ngoehap  meirig 

275  Moliant  Davydd  ap  tommas 

hiroydl  a  fo  im  heryr  „ 

or  lann  ynghyfair  Uan  llyr     .... 

mor  deg  j^  /  r  /  anrheg  a  roys  deio  ap  Jvan  dv 

27'7       A  welai  neb  a  welaf     ....     slightly  imperfect  /J 

a  chadw  /  r  /  gaer  iechyd  ir  gwr  lolo  goeh 

280       Mawr  yw  /  r  /  gair  am  y  teirhodd    ,    ,    .    .  i 

ir  gwr  hwnn  ar  wraig  ai  rhoys  Gvtto  or  Glynn 

Och  ddvw  nad  attebwch  ddim     ....  k 

nach  gweled  yn  iach  gwilim  hvw  hay  llwy[d] 

286  Moliant  Ivan  ap  einiawn  ap  gr:  ap  howel 

Ivan  ddewr  o  fewn  i  ddawn     ....  I 

yn  gadernid  ir  byd  byth  Ivan  wayd  da 

282       Y  bwbach  iach  ar  gwayw  vs    .    .    .    .  m 

vchod  wythoys  fych  dithav  Lewis  glynn  hothi 

292       Tri  llv  aeth  trwy  hoU  iaith     ....  n 

etto  i  rai  a  fo  trwmm  Lewys  glynn  hothi 

294       iarll  hir  fo  /  r  /  Hew  o  vrien     .....  o 

na  dim  mwy  end  am  Owain  Lewis  glynn  hothi 

297       Eiwyr  o  beth  He  avr  a  bwyd    ....  p 

gwyr  da  nef  'a  gair  da  /  n  /  ol     G.  or  glynn,  or  G.  owain 

299  Awdlfarwnad  Rys  ah  Sion 

Vn  eisiav  golav  rhag  alon     ....  q 

weithian  oi  eisiav  aeth  yn  isaf  lerwerth  vynglwyd 

302      dvw  sy  dda  dwys  i  ddial    ....  t 

dvw  a  fedd  llys  davydd  Uwyd  Gvttyn  Owain 

304      kwyn  o  royg  kann  orevgwyr     ....  s 

at  iesv  gwynn  tywsog  iai  Lewis  mon 

307      Rych,  gnych,  wrych,  wlych,  nych,  drych,  drist  &c.   Anon  t 

b.       Y  tywysog  sydd  at  wasg  sias  « 

ir  el  ym  iarll  yr  ail  maes  Rys  nanmor 

310       Kronigl  jv/  kyrn  a  glowir     ....  V 

gwif.yw  /r/  gwir  y  gairar  gamp  Rys,Nanmor 


b 


d 


e 


MOSTYN ,  SCANUSCEIBU  1 48.  ^^ 

313      Y  gwr  dewr  a  gard  evrin    ....  « 

as  J  am  a  welshe  yowmon 
SDare  me  with  this  a  poor  mon     •     •     ■     ■ 
g^v  /  r/  brain  i  gadw  /  r  /  brenin    dd:  llwyd  ap  Ih  ap  gr: 

315      Sr.  Eys  feirch  sain  siors  farchawg     .... 

drych  henaint  ar  ych  wyneb  ^««!  «'«« 

319      bardd  wyf  ag  yn  byw  ar  ddav     .... 

ban  ro  dvw  faes  banred  tych  »        » 

.S92      Nos  da  i  vran  is  dwfr  ennyd     ....  . 

Satt  fyddi  byth  hyd  dydd  barn  Zewts  mon 

325      Y  Torchogavrtrwy  /r/chwegwart    .     .     • 

trindawd  a  gatwo  /  r  /  vndyn  -«y«  «««'»»'• 

327      Pam  i  kanem  pe  im  kynnil    ....  ,     ^  ^ 

dvw  madde  bob  dim  iddaw  lerwerih  vynglwyd 

330      Anaml  i  chwardd  bardd  barwn     ....  ,,     ^  ^ 

ni  rydech  gynt  ar  adwy  Gr:  llwyd  ap  dd:  gablant 

333  Marwnad  Rhys  nawfed  iarll  dinefwr 

May  rhvw  adwrdd  ym  rhydain     ....  * 

bwrriwyd  act  yn  brawd  Ector  (1.  42  left  unfinished) 

335  (kerais  difantais  a  fv  /  im  kalon  |  fom  koelia  hell  gymrv      [i 
hithe  meinwar  yn  karv  ]  rhyw  flrith  hen  o  iteiriad  tv) 

336  ffrom   my   Chamber  at  Wynsore  park  the  xxviijth  of   this 
present  march  1603  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  YC  firend  to  vse    E.  Wynne 

6.  ffrom  my  Chamber  at  Wyndsore  park  the  xj*  of  this  present 
moneth  of  January  1604  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  To'  lovinge  Cosen  &  ffrend 
assured  in  what  he  may  or  Can  to  vse    John  Wynne 

c.     I  am  a  knight  and  meane  to  feight  and  armed  well  am  ^  ^ 
Loe   here  J   stand  with  sword  in  hand  my  battell  for  to 
try  &c. 
387       Trwm  yw  o  beth  tramwy  byd     ....  / 

bo  i  chwithav  y  baych  weithian  deio  ap  Jvan  dv 

339      Arwydd  pellenigrwydd  parch  m 

Owain  wayw  blaenfain  blinfarch     .... 
rhoed  yntav  i  minnav  /  r  /  march  lolo  Goch 

341       Karw  serch  y  kowirriaid     ....  n 

dy  gar  a  ddiolch  dy  gwn  Rys  go^  glynn  dyfrdwy 

343  Moliant  arglwydd  ddavydd  ahad  margam — imperfect. 

T  Uen  addvwyn  Uinieiddvawr     ....  o 

or  byd  heb  yr  abad  hwnn  lerwerth  vynglwyd 

346  Anoytha  dim  a  wneythom  &c.  [8  lines  only],  p 

347  Henaint :  Wrth  edrycb  galarnych  gael     ....  q 

nattur  kerdd  fy  nwyn  attvn  Gwilitn  ap  sefnyn 

349      Myddylio  i  ddwyf  mav  ddolvr     .  .     .  "l  Rys  ap  hynfrig  r 

henaint  o  ddeliant  ddylyn  I    koch,     nai    fab 

a  ddaw  heb  wybod  i  ddyn     .     .  .     .     f    brawd    a    disgibl 

a  thro  tra  fynych  a  thrig  J    ^  '0^°  ^°'^^- 

353      Mab  kadr  kydwaladr  kedweilydd  ....                .  .       ' 

,.y,     dy  glod.  aeth  dros  y  gwledydd  SypynkyveUiog 

356      Y  Uong  dan  y  fantell  hir     .     .     .     .  * 

,.,^    ,  ymerodres  y  mor  adref      ,      ,  Robin  ddv .  USO 


s 


204  MOSTTN  MANUSCRIPT   148. 

359  Wrth  weled  kwthwr  drwydded  kethr     ....  '    « 
He  om  bodd  lie  oni  byddwn                        lerwerth  gyrriog 

360  Marwnad  Rys,  abq.d  ystrad  fflvr 

dyn  wyf  er  doe  anafwyd     ....  j 

telid  dvw  ni  bydd  tlawd  hwnn  Gvtto  or  Glynn 

364       Y  Hew  oydd  evrlliw  i  walld     ....  ^ 

ladd  dwyfil  a  chledd  davydd  Lewys  glynn  kothi 

367  Moliant  meirig  ap  Rys  ap  howel  o  goytmor 

Mawr  iawn  ith  gar  meirionnydd     ....  {f 

a  dvach  yw  dy  ewythr  Tvcivr  penllyh 

369       Avr  yngharad  law  arrian     ....  g 

del  i  gynvrig  ag  elin 
dair  oys  i  roi  devryw  win  Lewis  glynn  kothi 

373       hawdd  ammawr  nim  dawr  im  dwyn     ....  f 

o  chaem  enaid  vwch  mynydd  Ivan  devlwyn 

Gwrda  gwych  llewyrch  llawir  o 

tal  glin  I  ^ronw   }  getliin  goyth  Tudur  penllyn 

379       llwyddiant  a  ffynniant  ymddiffynuwr  gwyr  h 

i  gar  Rys  ap  tewdwr     .... 

Edwart  ail  evdaf  /  ag  wiliam  galwaf  / 

i  chwi  boydl  addaf  /  a  cbyd  Iwyddiant      Howel  swrdwal 
384       Gway  a  fwrrio  gof  oyrwas     ....  t 

ith  wlad  teg  ith  weled  ti  levan  hrydydd  Air 

387  levan  ior  gwaywdan  gwiwdad     ....  k 
i  mi  y  myw  am  y  myd — 3  U.  imperfect.          D.  ap  Gwilim 

388  [yr  wybrwynt]  helynt  hylaw     ....  I 
08  gwir  mae  anghowir  hi                                   jj          ,, 

390       doy  ddifiav  dydd  i  yfed     ....  m 

fyned  at  forvydd  feinael  „  „ 

392  Yr  hett  fedw  da  ith  gedwir     ....  n 
gwaith  wyd  morfydd  llwyd  ai  Haw                  „          „ 

393  Y  llwyn  bedw  di  anedwydd     ....  o 
g^wna  ddydd  rhwng  morvydd  a  mi                    „          „ 

395       My  fi  a  sydd  devnydd  dig     ...     ,  p 

i  byddaf  o  gwybyddir  „  „ 

397       A  mi  /  n  /  glaf  er  mwyn  gloywferch     ....  g 

krek  rek  nim  dawr  pei  krokid  „  „ 

399       Gwyl  beder  i  bvm  yn  edrych     ....  r 

yn  anrheg  bid  teg  bid  hagr  „  „ 

401       Ni  allaf  nid  af  o  dy     .     .     .     .  » 

plwm  oyr  ar  glog  pie  mae  /  r  /  glaw  „  „ 

403      Tryan  ir  dyllvan  deg    ....  * 

oddaith  ym  bob  prenn  eiddew  „  ,> 

405      Tri  phorthor  dygyfor  dig    ....  « 

koyd  briglaes  a  maes  i  mi  „  » 

408  Awdl  i  Voir — partly  in  Latin 

Mair  yw  hyder  rhag  perigl     ...  " 

a  budd  i  hoU  feirw  a  by  w       leu:  ap  Rydd}  ap  Jeu:  lloyd 

413       Teg  yw  synnwyr  blinwyr  blaid     ....  «> 

amen  a  ifand  yno  y  mae  ■  Rys  gay  or  yri 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   148. 


205 


Lewys  tnorganwg 


Sr.   davydd  trevor 
o  Lanallgo  y  mon. 


d 


418      May  son  byth  am  sy  n  /  y  bedd 

Kys  ai  byw  Eys  dan  wybr  well 

Royd  dvw  iaitt  yn  yr  hett  hon 
421  Awdl  farwnad  Harri  viii. 

Marwloys  gwr  ar  groys  gwir  grog 

0  dvw  ai  waed  a  geidw  Edwart 

425      Over  i  ddyn  fwrw  i  dda     .     .     . 
oil  i  wyneb  Ilywenydd 

428  Marwnad  mredydd  ab  kynfrig 

doy  yngod  rhwng  dav  anger     .     . 
gway  ni  marw  haylioni  mon 

431      Pwy  ai  penned  pab  vnwaith     . 

Mr.  Robart  .  .  .  ap  Eys  gwynn  ( 
434  Moliant  edward  prys 

Pwy  sy  drwddaw  post  rvddavr     . 

now  peth  lownwerth  pwyth  laner 

437      kvrig  bendefigedig  [sic]  wyd     .     . 
kvrig  vo  meddig  imi 

440      Pwy  na  sir  ar  dir  kaer  dyf     .     . 
velly  ddvw  rag  vy  lladd  i 

443  Moliant  davydd  llwyd 

llwybr  yr  awch  He  briwir  on     .     . 
o  Roed  hwnt  harri  ai  tal 

445      Anodd  bod  hebod  yn  ynys,  dowyn 
ni  bo  dehevbarth  na  byd  hebod 

448  Y  ddevlew  o  wyddelwernn     .     . 
dyro  vddyn  bydeiroes 

449  Awdl  moliant  sion  wynn 

Tsgwier  croewder  cariadog     .     .     . 
croes  dvw  a  fo  ynod  crist  ai  faner 
453      Dafydd  yw  n  ywenydd  ni 

frawd  tafydd  o  fro  teifi     .... 
cymer  ddav  gwrser  am  gwn 

455      genavr  glynn  towyn  minteioedd     ....  o 

ag  i  cyrch  pob  rhai .  r  .  tai  n  y  towyn  Dd:  nanmor 

458  Moliant  Morvs,  gruffydd,  robart,  ag  Owain  Wynn 

J  llwyn  mesvr  llin  moesen     ....  p 

pa  dras  fwy  pedeiroes  foch  Wiliam  lleyn 

461       i  reinallt  mae  cledd  ar  groenyn  yn  grafE  q 

ab  grvffvdd  ap  pleddyn     .... 
canhwythav  glapiav  gann  gledd  lewys  glynn  eothi 

465      wyr  enionn  ai  Sonn  ffiuied  y  saeson     ....  r 

efo  delw  fyw  diaeled 

467  Moliant  syr  Wiliam  or  Penrhyn 

y  brad  henn  ir  brytanniaid     .     .     . 
del  ich  cof  dial  ych  cam 

470      .  w  .  fo  fydd  fwyfwy  feddiant     .... 

penn  ni  wedir  pwyn  ydych  „         „ 

473  Moliant  gwilym  ap  gr:  ap  gl'm  ap  tvdvr  or  Pennryn 

twr  dann  faner  yr  eryr     .... 

i  glos  dvw  nag  i  lya  dyn  Rhys  goch  or  ryri 


Rys  go}  or  yri 
=11.  l-8-^left  unfinished.) 

Gruff:  Hiraethoc 

Lewys  glyn  hothi 

Jerwerth  vynglwyd 

Wylliam  Egwad 
Dauidd  Namor 
'    tvdvr  penllyn 

7 

sjon  brwynog 
gwilym  ab  ifan  hen 


Tvdvr  penllynn 


lewys  mon 


206- 


MOSTTN  MANtr&ORIPT' 148. 


'477       rho  dvw  benrhyn  fteisgwynn  £tys 
a  geidw  frinhiniaith  gadair 

Marwnadeu  gwilym  ap  gruffydd 
180       rho  dvw  galoun  ddigUon  bwyll     . 
wrth  fyngwawr  dvw  mawr  amen 

484       rheg  ag  enw  rhi  gogoned     .     .     . 
twr  o  nef  ywr  teyrn  avr 

486       cefais  am  oerdrais  mowr  dravl     . 
gida  gras  dvw  oi  gadair 

489      rhad  elfydd  rho  dvw  dalfajugc     . 
onis  gwna  dvw  nis  gwna  dyn 


.     .     .      ■  '         fi.  as 
gwilym  ap  sefnyn 


Rys  goch  orr  ryri 


KrWYBEU  MOLIANT    WiLIAM   OR  PeNRBTN  : 


493       Wiliam  penn  a  lamp  ymy    . 
vwch  aros  euroch  wyrion 

495       gwych  wiliam  ag  vchelwa«d 
eryr  evraid  yryri 

498       pwyn  i  wlad  penaig  i  wledd      ,     .     . 
vchdr  ser  iechyd  ir  sant 

501       ydeilo  o  hvdoliaeth 

adeilad  tref  ar  dal  traeth     .     .     .     . 
penn  cenedl  penaig  gwynedd 

504      y  gwr  ai  dy  ar  y  gareg 

a  mvr  y  ty  yn  y  mor  teg     .... 
evro  r  gwynn  eryr  gwynedd 

507       y  mae  r  avr  yma  r  awron     .... 
nes  i  eni  na  sonient 

510       Y  dref  ar  dorr  yr  afonn     \^Carnarvon] 
ar  dwr  hallt  ar  odre  honn     .... 
ni  ddaw  i  fanaw  nev  fon 
iarit  0  llidia  r  Uv  wydion     .... 
dvr  wiliam  fal  gwydr  elienn 
dy  wr  ai  gwisg  fal  draig  wen 

513       morr  llawen  maer  11  v  ifaingc     .     .     . 
dyred  ddvg  y  drydedd  waith 

517       y  gwr  mawr  a  egyr  mon     .... 

tir  brenin  teirbro  wynedd 
520       siambrenn  mesbrenu  grymvsbraiF    .     . 

sy  fyw  ath  gais  saf  ith  garn 

523       tros  gred  y  troes  gair  i  wr     .     . 
mwy  na  sarfE  am  ynys  wyd 

529       rhaid  yw  ir  beirdd  rhodio  r  byd 

diwedd  fo  ytt  dydd  y  fern 
532       ofer  yw  gwydd  i  fwrw  gwawd     . 

indeg  ail  vn  dvw  ai  gad 
635       camrwysg  arglwyddi  cymru     .     . 

wiliam  grvffvdd  helm  griffwnt     . 

cymro  ynn  vrddo  ynn  iaith 

637       prins  mawr  aer  parawns  ai  medd 
siambrlenn  yn  gapdenn  pob  gart 


Rhobin  ddv 
Cynnwrig  ap  dd:  goch 


Rhobin  ddv 


gvtto  r  glynn 


Tvdvr  pennllynn 


Tvdvr  died 


Tvd[vr]  aled 

Tvdvr  aled 

gvtto  T  glynn 

lewys  mon 

Hvw  llwyd  ap  dd: 

Mathe  brwmffild  ■ 

dd:  pennant 

dd:  llwyd  ap  ll'nap  gr: 
grvff:  ap  tvdvr  ap  ho'll 


MOiS!r?NiJjrANusciiiPT  148. 


2tV^ 


540 


542 


545 


ifor  J  glod  fv  wr  glan 

ail  ym  fych  wiliam  vychan     .     , 

yn  arfav  r  gaer  ynn  arfon 

yr  wyd  fal  cwnstabl  o  ron     .     . 

ti  a  ery  gael  teiroes 

blodevawl  yw  o  blaid  Ian     .     . 

pawb  a  wyr  ail  pabo  wynn 

pwy  yw  anrhaith  y  penrhyn 

Wiliam  fab  wilym  yw  fo     .'    . 

oeswr  yw  alw  ayr  wiliam 

rhoddwn  wydd  addvrn  rhwyddwaisg    ....  c 

a  wnai  fedd  yn  nef  iddi  [i.e.,  Sian  gwraie  Wm:}  ;  Lewys  daron 


dd:  ap  edmwnt 


Cynfrig  ap  dd:  goch 


548 


550 


Gwilytn  ap  sefnyn 


553 


556 


569 


Rys  goch  orr  ryri 


if  an  dylynnior 


562 


566 


569 


572 


■575i 


mae  act  ar  drvm  ecdor  draw 
amen  walch  jv  addvrn  mawr 

dwyn  bonedd  dann  i  benwnn     .     . 
da  iacb  ryw  y  dychrevir 
wiliam  jvr  barddlyw  beirddlawr 
fab  gwilym  didawl  mawl  mawr 
fab  grvffvdd  jlew  gwaewrvdd  Uym 
gwaladr  gwndyd  fab  gwilym  &c.  &c 
fab  "adda  dvw  naf  fy  ner 
Pwy  sydd  yn  hwpio  swyddwr     .     . 
cawn  dalw  n  benn  cenedl  byd  Lewys  mon 

Kywyddeu  tuchan  i  syr  Wiliam  gan  ifan  delynior  ac 
attehion  gan  syr  davydd  trevor  ^c. 
T  post  hael  hapvs  dvlwyd    .     .     . 
caffom  oes  yt  y  cyff  mawi- 
ifan  pa  syfrdan  ysydd 
ynn  myned  ynn  dymentiydd 
pa  farieth  pa  fyfyrio 
aeth  gair  dy  fyned  oth  go   ■ 
pa  awen  fraisgwenn  av  frys 
a  dyfodd  ar  dy  wefys     .... 
dy  law  ar  dant  a  Iwfir 
a  gwaith  dy  dafod  nid  gwir    .     . 
draw  r  gwaew  ar  dor  dy  wraig  di 
y  gwr  digri  gwridowgrvdd    ,.     .     , 
end  o  vn  fann  nida  n  foes 

Y  twr  wyd  ar  torr  Uydan     .     .     , 
ni  ddvg  [Wm:]  dan  i  Ivrig  Ian 
bechod  mwy  na  dyn  bychan     .     . 

uHielys  yw  i  fys  ai  fawd  [i.e.  Ivan's] 
difai  i  ddiawl  i  dafawd  .  .  .  ." 
oni  chwitiaf  na  chotwyf 

Y  rhowiogwalch  avr  hygoll     .     . 
ar  ddychan  yr  oedd  achos     .     .     . 
a  wnel  y  gwr  yn  ol  gwin 
hvdol  yw  r  byd  a  heda    .... 
y  siambrlaen  sydd  sylfaen  serch 

'-  pa  rvw  addvrn  pereiddwych     .... 
y  cwnstabl  ar  parabl  per 
nid  oes  rhiain  goelfain  gv 
nas  dymvnaist  ai  mynnv     .... 
dy  fwrw  n  iarll  dwyfronn  avr  ifan  dylynnior 


d 


f 


h 


syr  dd:  trefor 
ifan  dylynior 


ifan  amhadog 


ifan  dylynior 
ifan  am  hadog 


208 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  148. 


578       er  hynn  arcs  yr  banner     .     .     . 
Haw  grist  i  groesi  r  Hew  grym 

581       Uawen  fyth  ni  allwn  fod     .     .     . 
ymvroedd  saint  maer  ddwy  aian 
ymangor  wenn  myn  y  grog 
mae  merch  a  raam  y  marchog     . 
byd  tydd  barn  boed'beddiw  bo 

585  Marwnad  syr  Wiliam,  1531. 

pa  drwmp  a  ganwyd  pa  drin  . 
pont  oedd  a  ffenn  siambrlen  sad 
pais  dew  gwyr  post  ai  goriad  . 
a  gras  ar  archolle  r  grog 

589  Marwnad  sian  gwraig  syr  Wiliam 
trvgaredd  gwynedd  ar  gogoned     . 
oes  or  vn  blaid  swrn  o  blant 
o  sian  arglwyddes  o  went     .     .     . 
martba  r  mars  o  merthyr  mawr 
tv  sdradling  tost  yw  r  vdlef    .     . 
dod  i  wraig  orav  /  dvw  drvgaredd 


ifan  ap  grvffvdd  leia 


b 


Lewys  mon 


gr:  ap  tvdvr  ap  ho'll 


d 


Tvdvr  aled 


597 


601 


Dwy  farwnad  i  Syr  Sion  Salbri  o  Lyweni 
Y  blaned  heb  lawenydd     .... 
fFarwel  i  wr  a  ffriw  Ian 


John  Tudur 


604 


607 


Trees  dinestr  tros  y  dynion     .... 

5fesu  ar  saint  i  Syr  Sion  Res  kain 

Dwy  farwnad  i  Mr:  Wiliam  Mostyn 

Bliu  yw  dwyn  blaned  wenwyn     .... 

na  bo  ef  heb  nef  yn  ol  John  TvdUr 

Bid  o  fewn  byd  a  vynno     ... 

kladder  y  gryravster  maith 

kladdwyd  wyr  Madoc  Cloddaith    .... 

llyraa  y  vann  lloi  mae  vo  John  Tiid4r 

611  Marwnad  Sion  Wyn  o  wedir  1S3g 

Rannwyd  wely  /r/  hen  dalaith     .... 
dvw  a  roes  da  yw  i  rann 
ddiliw  i  ddolwyddelan 

dydd  y  varn  dy  ddeav  vo  John  brwynog 

614  Moliant  tf  mah  John  wynn  ap  mredydd  a  wedir  15Tg 

y  llwyn  messur  Uin  moessen     ....  , 

pa  dras  fwy  pedeir  oes  fach  Wiliam  llyn* 

619  Marwnad  Ms:  elin  salbri  15§5\ 

mawr  yw  cwyn  am  wraig  hynod    .... 

vo  rannodd  nef  ir  enaid  John  philippes* 

622      Mae  son  fal  moeseu  ne  fwy    ....  w 

trwy  dduw  .  n  .  aer  Potryddan  wen  John  Tuder 

626  Marwnad  ms:  gwenn  salbri  13§1 

dwyn  enaid  a  chorfE  dwyn  annedd     ....  « 

i  bu  wae  ninnau  heb  vn  enaid  John  Ph:* 


*  These  poems,  apparently,  are  in  the  autograp]!  of  the  poets, 
-f  Mil  a  banner  |  trigain     ....     deu  ddeg;  a  ffump. 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   148. 


209 


Sion  Tudur 
dd:  ddv  o  hiraddvc 


syr  owain  ap  gwilym 

.     .     .        rhidurt  ap 
ho:  ap  dd:  ap  eingiaicn 


630  Marwnad  morys  wynn  o  wedir 

Mae  draw  /  r  /  gair  am  drowyr  gynt 
Uywenydd  oil  yw  enaid 

634  Pe  meddwn  sseithbwn  ssathrgrvc  &c. 

635  Marwnad  gydwaladr  ap  rhobart  1551^ 

mwy  ni  ddichyn  dyn  ddim  daeoni  /  grym     .... 

y  mae  i  wledychiad  mal  i  dichynn         grvffvdd  hiraethog 

639  Moliant  Cydwaladr  ap  Robt:  a  sian  or  rhiwlas 
vcho  ydd  awn  vwch  y  ddol     . 
y  ddeuddyn  iawn  ddyweddi 

642  Marwnad  elisav  mab  Wiliam 

gwae  ddyn  am  gvddio  i  wyneb 
a  chaib  nawdd  ddvw  achvbwyf 

645  Marwnad  sion  llwyd  1563 

llawer  vdfa  llwyr  adfyd     .... 
ho  /n  /  barch  fal  i  bv  / n  /  y  byd 

649  Moliant  cydwaladr  ai  wraig 

yr  eryr  aeth  ar  warr  ial     .     .     . 

wythoe.s  foch  dwyoes  ych  dav 
652       Howel  ni  ohysga  i  h'aeach 

ni  chwarddaf  oni  cluoerddyf 

654       Pwy  sy  geidwad  teiigwlad  hy     . 
teiroes  ar  iad  roeser  wynn 

656       dyn  traws  fvnn  dwyn  dros  for     . 
ar  ai  gwisg  yra  i  gysgv 

659      hawddfyd  heddiw  i  fwydav     .     . 

hiraeth  hagr  hwyr  itb  ddygaf 
661       mae  eryr  ar  hoU  wyr  Hen     . 

yn  arfav  maen  ar  fy  medd 


grvffvdd  hiraethog 


Lewys  morganwg 
Gutto  .  r .  Glynn 


664 


665 


667 


pyrerm  piav  .  r  .  owronn     .     . 
eb  fannedd  na  byf  yno 

tyfodd  vn  o  blant  tifeth     .    .     . 
na  bv  .  r  .  gwr  heb  avr  ag  yd 


y  gwi-  arr  warr  y  gareg     ....  n, 

nid  y  pab  onid  mab  mair  „  „ 

670      af  ddvw  svl  foddys  aelwyd     ....  n 

o  goed  ta  i  fo  gad  hwnn  ,, 

672  Moliant  hvw  conwy  ofiyn  evrvn 

y  brynn  ar  Ilwybr  ar  anedd     ....  r 

y  ca  enioes  hvw  conwy  tvdvr  penllyn 

674  Mol:  Morgan  ap  S.  ap  ho:  ai  wraig  Elsbeth,  m}  hvw  Comvy 

T  carw  bonheddig  cwrol g 

oes  byth  vwcL  a  elsbeth  wen  ifan  llwyd  brydydd 

Thomas  andras  or  windref     ....  t 

ni  roddvvn  ynhyraddvg 

fy  eleirch  er  dengmeirch  o  dvg  dio  ap  Jeuan  dv 

O  dvw  mawr  wedi  .  r  .  awr  drom     ....  u 

torwyd  bedd  nid  toriad  bas 
o  lawr  teml  i  roi  tomas     .... 
da  fydd  lie  mab  AavydA  llwyd     .... 
bwrw  carw  gwych  brivvo  caer  gaint 
87130.  O 


676 


678 


2i;0  M03TYN  MANUSCBIPT  14.8. 

siawnsler  a  gwchder  y  gwyr     . 

a  ddysg  er  maint  a  ddysgo 

(neb  vyth  a  wybv  fo)     .     .     .     . 

pwy  a  wyr  farn  heb  ryw  fai 

pann  gvddiwyd  penn  ai  gwyddai     .... 

i  weleil  grym  i  wlad  grist  Rys  cain 

682  Moliant  Mr:  griiffudd  wynn 

J  siry  glwys  avr  i  gledd     ....  a 

i  bo  i  wyneb  ai  einioes  John  Philip 

686  Englynion  i  ruffudd  llwyd  wyr  rvffvdd  wynn 

imp}'ii  per  irvvyn  pvr  evrwyd     ....  b 

aer  or  ddwyssir  vrddasswaed  J.  Ph. 

b.       saates  avr  vonnwes  arr  a  f v     .     .     .     .  c 

llawer  ai  gwyr  lloer  hvw  gwynn  J.  Ph. 

687  Catrin  wenn  o  benn  y  bonedd     ...  d 
ar  gwaed  wiwloer  gadwaladr                                     >  J.  Ph. 

b.  Oes  gledd  dwy  wynedd  dydd  daed     ....  e 
sion  wynn  kannoes  nann  konwy            Lewys  Morgannwc 

690  K.  i  ofyn  kymod  TViliam  mab  Syr  Win:  or  penrhyn 

karnarfon  hen  goflon  gwyr     ....  / 

dig  o  gwyn  yw  digio  gwr 

digwyn  yw  digio  anwr     .... 

ar  Haw  genych  ^arll  gwynedd  Wiliam  llyn 

692  teiroes  fo  deinioes  jw  dynion :  aer  huw g 

bowyd  a  sercli  bid  i  Sion     .... 

groiw  ffydd  jor  wyr  griifFydd  wynn       James  dwnn  ISgif 

h.       Glan  Sion  wyt  wyr  Sion  tras    ....  h 

bowyd  ardal  Bodwrda  Rys  Cain 

c.  GrufEydd  wyr  gruffydd  graffwych  &c.  i 

d.  vrddas  glan  i  Sian  sy  i  ennyn  <fcei      '    •  R-  Cain  h 

e.  llwyddiant  ar  ffyniant  drwy  [.    .     .     -J  &c.        Rys  Cain  I 

693  Mr:  robart  ssalbri  o  lanrrwst 

Ni  bydd  Trafo  dydd  na  dwr  na  thes     ....  m 

mi  a  wn  na  bv  ammwy  ni  bydd  Tvdvr  Aled 

698  Kowydd   i   ofvn   celiog   bronfraith   dros   Mr.   ffans 
j  hvw  Pilstwn  o  faelor 
Vn  duw  gad  vn  ni  ad  gam     ....  n 

A  daed  yw  daw  ai  diylch  Grvff"}  hiraethog 

700  Am  ladd  or  gath  y  heliog  ar  yffordd  yni  lety 

bum  Herod  bo  ym  hiraeth     ....  a 

a  fo  ammen  wrth  fy  modd  „  „ 

703       Saer  erioed  mesurwr  wyf    ....  p 

grufEydd  wyn  gwr  o  ffydd  dda     ... 
a  gras  gan  y  gwir  fessv  ,  Sion  Tudr 

706  Kowydd  kymod  syr  Risiart  ai  gefnder  Wiliam 

03  nion  yw  ynys  y  mel     ....  1 

ar  gras  fal  drigior  [sic]  grisav 

ywch  ywcli  i  del  i  chwich  dav  sion  brwynog 

711       dyn  tanboeth  ynanad  &c.  Anon  r 

-  6.      Er  i  wen  lawea  loyw  ewig  &c,  B.W.  s 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   148.  211 

712  Eobart  wynu  irwynn  erod     ....  a 
rrwydd  i  kaen  harddv  konwy                         Sion  mowddwy 

713  Pwy  ar  dafod  piir  difai  b 
pa  wr  a  f ydd  heb  rriw  fai 

oerfel  ym  er  a  wnelom 

OS  bevs  ych  Rys  ab  Sion  [o  lya  nedd]     .     .     .     . 

avr  yn  Haw  nor  hen  llevad  ||  (1.  64) — imperfect  [/er.-  Vynglwyd'\ 

715  Kaets  byssedd  rhag  gwaith  meddig     ....  c 
yn  filenllwyd  yn  flaenllym  *  *  *  * — imperfect 

716  Moliant  Sion  Ihoyd  ap  dd.  ap  sionab  William 

Y  Rywiogwalch  inewn  rhagor  .  d 

kwrs  ymladd  kroesav  amlwg  (1.  33) — imperfect 

,721  Moliant  Rys  ab  Sion 

Bardd  ydwy  /  n  /  bryddwydiaw     ....  e 

dy  droi  Rys  or  didro  i  Rwyd  Jerwevlh  Vynglwyd 

722  Gwrandewch  gany /n/ fesyrol  &c.  (4  11. — imperfect)         "  f 

723  Y  ddevwr  arglwyddaidd     ....  g 
i  gadw  aelwyd  gadwaladr                                    dd:  Nanmor 

Dwy  farwnad  i  mredydd  llwydfab  TSdvr  ap  howel 
725       Dyn  wyfi  yn  dylyu  vn  £ann     ....  h 

yn  llys  dvw  mae  /  n  /  well  istad  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

727       Wyth  anap  aetb  i  wynedd     ....  i 

peed  ar  rann  pedr  i  enaid  Lewis  daron 

730  llawn  fowredd  bonedd  yn  ben  &c.  Anon  k 

731  Owdl  i  Tomas  ap  Risart  ap  howel 

fiyniant  vrddoniant  ar  ddynion     ....  I 

yt  ac  ar  fEyniant  poed  ta  i  gorffennych  Gr:  hiraetJiog 

734  This  indenture  made  the  .  .  .  day  of  June  in  the  38  yeare  of 
the  Raigne  of  oure  Souerange  lady  Elizabeth  .  .  .  between  Qriiffyth 
Wynne  of  Ilanrost  .  .   .  and   A     B  of  maynan  &c. 

735  Marwnad  y  gwyn  Jfanh 

gwaedd  ac  /  i  /  bawb  gweddio  /  i  /  bv     .     .     .     .  m 

dvw  Jessv  ai  dewissodd  Kad'd'r  kessel 

738       Oes  gledd  dwy  -wynedd  &c.    See  p.  687  (6)  above.  n 

936  Gogangerdd  ar  amryw  Achosion  owaith  prydyddion 

diweddara  yr  oes  hon  i6Tl 

937  Taw  byttain  8<vfain  led  ynfyd  gledren  &c.  Ma:  Ow:  o 

938  Nid  merch  ar  laiinerch  a  liniodd  christ  &c.  p 

,     ~    /v        •  Ralph  y  Gwydd 

o.  jr  Saesnig :  r    a         s 

faith  ddiflas  jaith  gras  iaith  grin  jaith  gwydde  &c.  q 

Jo:  Edwart 

c.  Caerddor  nag  agor  wag  ogo  o  bias  [y  maelor]  &c.  r 

Twm  Teg  id 

d.  Y  plas  asodwyd  ar  ddyw  Sadwrn  ai  fwttri  &c.  T.  T.  s 

939  Och  ith  fam  letgam  Iwytgarth  nath  fygodd  J-  R-  t 

b.  J  Mr:  William  Williams  o  Lan  S'  Shior 

Mae  rhyw  ddel  figel  ni  faga  gariad     ....  '« 

gas  ei  blwy  megis  y  blaidd  Rees  Cadwalader 

o  2 


212  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   148. 

c.  Pedioar  Englyn  i  Mr:  Walter  Price  o  Ian  y  wern  am 
fostio  cael  plant  o  wragedd  eraill  heb  gael  yr  vn  oi 
ivraig  ei  hun 
Ehyw  garwr  yn  siwr  ym  sydd  or  dalaith     ....  « 

Aed  bwried  He  fyned  fo  Rees  Cadwalader 

940  J'r  Cybydd  ar  Hael : 

Y  sawl  a  r(ies  yd  i  sion  y  clochydd     ....  ^ 

ag  ysgall  a  fo  ei  gasgal  Jo:  Edward 

b.  Am  ddwyn  mawn  : 

fy  iihanwydd  o  fynydd  i  fan  yn  ddigost  &c.  /.  E.  c 

941  Wrth  dyny  eithin : 

Tydi  Rog  o  beichiogi  y  morwyc     ....  ^ 

mynych  y  dymvni  /  fod  deithin  yn  dy di  Jo:  Ro: 

b.  Pa  gost  y  buost  or  byd  yr  Eurych  &c.  J.  R,  e 

c.  Y  dabler  hyder  hyda-wl  y  byd  Ac.  J.  Ed:  f 

d.  Dychan  J  Sion  Edw: 

Teirgwaith  yn  helaith  medd  haelion  gymry    ....       g 
■weithie  yn  feddw  .  .  .  wythen  o  ddyn  weithie  yn  ddiawl 

R.  C. 

942  Atteb :  Dyw  farglwydd  or  deynydd  downys  llownwaith  /.  E.  h 

b.  ILeuen  flin  or  iiv  if  lof  sy  ymagy     ....  { 
a  Gofid  yw  hymlid  hi                                                  R.  C. 

c.  jf  Gythreiliaid  yn  rhith  mock  a  ddoeth  o  Siglen  yn  y  bettws 

Dyma  bias  drewgas  y  drygwr  ai  nyth     ....  k 

A  chenel  i  foch  Annwn  R.  C. 

943  Tyred  os  myned  a  wnawni  i  rodio     ....  I 
oddiyn*  yn  ddidro  ni  ddown  adre                 Will:  Thomas 

b.  Atteb  :  Ow  William  Ian  ddiddan  yw  ddydd  iaeth  arael  ...    »i 

Amseroedd  y  mesyre  Ed:  Man: 

c.  Barngyngor  ir  Canwriad  Rob:  Prys  am  i  fai  cyhoeddys  1653 

Symudaist  liydaist  ryw  hoeden  Robert    ....  n 

etto  ei  gun  ne  at  y  go  M.  P. 

948-50     Various  scribblings. 


MS.  149.  DosBARTH  Aefau.  Paper;  1  If  x  7  inches;  356  pages; 
copied  in  1678;  bound  in  Russia  leather.  Page  1  bears  the  signature 
of  "  Robt.  Wynne."     Pages  41-50,  58-344,  348-49,  356-66,  are  blank. 

3  Dosbarth  arfav  y  gopiwid  allan  or  JLifr  a  fenthyciais  i  gan  Sion, 
Mathews  o  Ruabon  iClS. 

Pedwar  peth  a  nodir  mewn  Arfau  : — 

(a.)  Amser  cynta  yr  arfered  dwyn  arfau  pen  ddangosodd  yr  enfys  ar 
ol  y  dwr  dilivv  &c. 

(b.)  liiwiau  sydd  weddys  jw  dwyn  mewn  arfav  &c. 

(c.)  Arwyddion  a  pha  beth  a  arwyddocant  &c. 

(rf.)  Rliol  ar  hynodi  a  dospleiddio  arfau.  Or  Uywiau  oil,  pena  medd 
Aristotle  yw  gwyn  a  du,  canys  or  ddau  hyny  drwy  gelfyddid  y  gwneir 
pob  lliw  arall,  &c.  &c. 


MOSTYN  MANUSCEIPT   149.  213 

4  Or  Arwiddion  a  ddugir  mewn  arf'au  vrddasach  yw  y  rhai  gwrw  na 
I'hai  benyw.     b.  Am  adar  &c. 

5  Am  byscod.     6  Rheol  ar  hynodi  arfau.    7  pethau  nodadwy. 

b.  Amryw  euriau  Phrenig  wedi  ei  cyfieithu  Cressent  ....  ILoer 
ne  leuad  newydd     Eampant  ....  Dyfal  sefyll  ar  ei  draed  ol,  &c. 

10  Meteloedd  ne  planedau. 

11  Arfau  bagad  o  wyr  Brydain  : — 

(1.)  ADgliarad  ach  Ithel  vayghan     M:   lianerog   gouls  ag  aur 
ILew  aur  yn  y  gouls  a  ILew  gouls  yn  yr  aur. 

(2.)  Abadau  Emwytbig     M:  arian  cwpl  o  sable  tri  chap  or  un. 

Theu  follow  the  arms  of  Arthur,  and  other  heroes  of  Geofirey  of 
Monmouth's  Historia  from  Brutus  omvard,  arranged  alphabetically  and 
mixed  up  with  historical  personages,  178  entries  in  all. 

25  Bonedd  y  Gwyr  Gore  sef  Gwehelyth  Deheubarth,  ^erwerth, 
Powys,  Nanney,  Morganwg,  Dyfet,  Cadellig  o  Gegidfa,  PenUyn, 
Merionydd,  Ardudwy,  Ehos,  Rhyfonniog,  Dogfeiling. 

28  JLwyth  Hedd,  JVIarchydd,  Hugh  Conwy  o  fryn  Euryn,  Richard 
Mostvn  0  Drelacre. 

30  Gwehelyth  Caio,  Arwystli,  Cyfeillog,  Mechain  is  coed,  ILwidiarth 
ymhowys,  Abertanad,  Cegidfa,  Burgednig  ymhlwy  Cegidfa,  Ywain, 
Caer  Einion.  Strad  Alun,  Puifford  a  Mortyn,  Krycceth  y  swydd  croes 
oswallt,  Cadwyn  faen  ymechen  vwch  coed,  Ceri,  Meilienydd  rhwng 
Gwy  a  hafren,  Elfel  is  mynydd  a  glyn  Bwcli,  Aber  Eilw  yn  Elfael 
vwch  mynydd,  o  Vuellt,  Brecheiniog,  o  Verionydd,  Nanconwy,  o 
Wynedd,  Merionydd  //  "  Guttyn  Owain." 

34  Maesmor  /  Rhobert  ap  Gr:  ap  Rhys  &c.  &c. 

40  Hyd  yma  y  mae  Gyttjn  Owain  yn  ysgrifeny  Gwehelyth  Dogfeilin. 

51-57  Outlines  of  shields. 

345  At  y  Gwir  Hybarch  ddysgedig  Athro  a  ffrif  Ainguedd  geidwad 
faith  gymraeg,  a  ehyfrinachau,  Ai  hen  feirdd  at  Haddysg  M'  D'  Sion 
Dafis  0  Fallwyd,  Thomas  Moris  hynaj  or  Drewen  yn  erchi  Annerch  : 

Am  eich  mawr  Boen  a  thrafael,  er  fy  mwyn  I  yn  sgrifeny  cimaint  o 
'hanes  Gwion  Bach  a  Thaliesyn  ....  pan  i  darllenais  fo  lawenychodd 
fy  nghalon  yn  fawr  ....  mae  yn  syrn  arswydys  genif,  atteb  ich 
gofyniad  .  .  .  .  o  achos  fy  meitbrin  ymhlith  anghyfiaith,  lie  mae  y  rhan 
fwyaf  yn  barrottach,  i  arfer  estroniaith  afreolys  nag  jawn  berffeith- 
rwydd  jaith  eu  gwlat  ....  a  chwichwi  wedi  gwario  Uawer  o  Amser 
.  .  .  .  yn  dwyn  allan  [y  Gymraeg]  o  fygdarth  dywUni,  i  amlygawl 
oleuni  ....  wrth  vwch  ddwyvvaith  gyfieuthy  r  Beibl  yn  gymraeg  a 
.'hefyd  gwneythyr  Grammar  newydd  Arni  &c.  Then  follows  four  pages 
•of   allegorical    explanation    of   the    persons    and  incidents   in  Hanes 


354  Afallen  beren  bur  ei  blode  felus  Aeron  &c. 

T  ddaear  yn  faen  ar  maen  yn  bren  ar  pren  yn  d^n  ar  tan  yn  llydw,  ar 
Uudw  yn  ddwr,  ar  dwr  yn  ymchoel  yn  blwm,  ag  ar  hyny  y  dechre  y 
forwyn  or  Eiwyn  llwyd,  a  chwedi  y  profo  hithe  Bob  Meddeginieth 
fflamol,  dan  Brwmstan,  yno  yr  a  hithe  yn  dri  dyblig  ag  felly  yr  ymsycha 
hi  ei  hun  ag  eiff  i  fEwrdd  yn  Jkr  ddu  Gwtta  medd  vn  Merddyn  Emrys 
0  chlowch  i  ddim  am  y  forwyn  or  llwyn  llwyd  adolwg  nodwch 
Yr  eiddoch  ar  eich  Gorchymyn  oi  galon 

Thomas  Maurice  henaf. 


214  MOSTTU  MaNUaCRIPT  158. 

•  MS.  158.  A-  History  of  England  and  Wales  from  the  time  of 
"William  the  Conqueror  to  the  sixth  year  of  Edward  VI.,  in  the  auto- 
graph of  the  author,  Ellis  Griffith,  a  soldier  of  Calais.  Paper ;  112.  x 
8^  inches  ;  689  folios  ;  bound  in  oak  boards  and  leather.  From  the 
Gloddaeth  Library. 

The  earlier  parts  of  this  MS.  seem  to  be  colourless  compilations  from 
the  earlier  Chronicles  which  are  often  referred  to  by  name,  such  as 
Higden's  Polychronicon*  Froissart's  Chronicle,  English  Chronicle 
&c.  He  also  refers  to  "  Welsh  Writing  "|  and  "  ray  authority  "  ;  and 
French  writings  like  La  Trdison  et  Mart  de  Richard  II.,  and  Waurin's 
Chroniqties  seem  to  have  been  used.  Extracts  relating  to  the  fall  of 
Llywelyn,  "  tb  e  last  prince  of  Wales,"  and  to  the  "  insurrection "  of 
Owen  Glynd^  are  given  below,  that  historians  may  judge  for  themselves 
ofthe  value  of  the  work.  Forthereign  of  Henry  VHI.  (folios  .165-657) 
the  author  gives  an  account  of  many  transactions  as  an  eye-witness.  He 
was  more  than  once  present  at  trials  in  the  Star  Chamber;  he  writes  at 
gi-eait  length  about  Cromwell,  Dr.  Barns,  &c.  The  account  of  the  in- 
corporation of  Wales  with  England  rs  dismissed  in  three  lines.  Consti- 
tutional history  seems  to  have  had  no  attraction  for  Ellis  Gritfitli,  who 
loves  to  dwell  on  foreign  wars.  The  marvellous,  too,  hag  charms  for  him. 
Some  portions  of  the  work  remind  one  of  Grafton,  but  there  is  no 
eVidence'that  the  one  copied  the  other. 

TJhe  first  folio  is  missing  and  the  Preface  now  begins  with  folio  2. 

II SMJ  ynn  abyl  ")  gyuatteb  poob  gair  ynni  senttens  drwy  boob  kyl- 
nyddydd  a  seiens  ar  a  dreithir  ar  tauod  drwy  lethyreu  ymhoob  ^aith  ar  y 
sydd  ynn  arueredig  oi  dy wedud  yny  hran  yma  or  byd  A[c]  yn  enwedig 
ir  kyuriw  wyr  ac  y  sydd  y[n]  huoddyl  ag  yn  wybod  |  ynn  y  Lading  ar 
gymraeg  Neithyr  etto  ifr  hynn  ifr  ydwyf  ^  yn  kyuadde  ynno  vy  hun 
nad  ydwyf  i  ynn  y  matter  hwn  yma  onid  ynyrlin  modd  o  gyfflybiaeth/ 
Ac  y  mae  yr  ysbardun  ]f  wnenthud  ir  march  gerdded  hredcg  ne  dutliio 
yn  gynnt  yni  vlaen  Ne  yntte  yn  gyfEelib  ^  agallenn  /  f r  gwyr  gwybodol 
dyegedig  i  hogi  i  kyityS  -f  olymu  i  peiine  ]f  ysgr/uenv  /  yn  gysdal  i 
lynynhau  ac  "j  berffeithiav  vyngorchwyl  ^  /  yr  hwn  a  ddaruu  f  mi  ^  vran- 
narv  yn  gwysau  mawr  balkiog  tragwthun  i  kyss'Ndtd  Ynn  yr  hynn  nid 
wyf  i  ynn  kymerud  arnnaf  amgennach  no  gwr  sympl  difas  diddysg 
anwybodol  avai  ynn  kymerud  arno  vod  yn  benn  Rongwr  "]  lywio  ac  f 
gynrwyddo  Bongiaad  o  wyr  o  vliaint  ac  annhrydedd  dros  vor  Hydann,  J 
wlad  ynn  yr  hon  ni  biasai  neb  o  honnaunt  twy  ^r  moed  ynn  y  blaen 
Ynn  yr  vn  modd  ^  da^-uu  'j  mi  annturio  dwynn  Hawer  o  bethau  nodedig  o 
ysdoriay  ardderchion  dyledog  o  bartther  dwyrain  or  hrain  ni  bv  gyswyn 
am  danaunt  o  vewn  kymru  ymysg  y  kyffredin  ifr  moed  ynn  y  blaen. 

Ac  am  ^•y  Haunr  nid  wyf  ]f  ynn  damuno  dim,  onid  ych  kredigrwydd 
ach  gair  da  chwi,  A  meddwl  am  y  trais  ar  kam  addaruu,  i  heirs  mwttwn 
i  wnneuthud  a  myui  ynn  dwyitodrus  dan  eulun  kyuraith  ar  kam  f  mae 
i  ttiueddionn  ef  yn  i  wneuthud  a  myui  yn  wastadol  /  Ac  ynn  debig  yw 
wneuthud  oherwydd  nadwyf  ^  ynnabyl  i  ddyuod  fr  wlad  i  ddilin 
y  gyuraith  /  yr  honn  gannaglowaf  f  y  sydd  gwedi  mynned  ar  gyuyrgoft 
ynghymru  /  a  fioigyr  /  onid  ir  sawl  avo  kyuoed'hog  f  evro  dwyllo  y 
gwyr  o  gyuraid'h  yr  hynn  nid  ydwyf  iyn  abyl  yw  wneuthud/  Or  aches 
myui  a  dolygaf  i  chwi  Eoddi  ychH:auu[r  f  g]eishio  vnnioni  vyngham 
i  hryngoch  chwi  Mr  Peej-s  Mostun  [26.]  y  neb  megw  ac  f  mae  gwyr  y 
wlad  yn  dangos  J  mi  aatt  wneuthud  Hawer  o  help  ynny  matter  hwn  tuac 

*  Trevisa's  translation  was  also  used. 

t  This  "  Welsh  Writing  "  is  not  Brut  y  Tywyssogion,  but  some  source  unknown 
to  the  writer,  and  possihly-noJonger  in  existence. 


ELLIS  GRIFFITH'S   HISTORY.  215 

att  beri  J  mi  gaffael  vynghyuiownder  Ac  yn  wir  peduiasai  vatter  A 
viassai  vwy  nor  eiddof  i  htwng  yr  un  o  houocli  chwi  ychdeuoedd  /  nag 
]f  wr  o  vewn  sir  y  fflint  ar  gwr  penna  o  vewn  kyuoeth  y  brenin  ynny 
ti»  yma  ir  mor  /  Myui  a  vynnaswn  gaifel  i  chwi  atteb  krynno  /  ^e  ach 
kyuiounder  amdano  /  Neithyr  val  kyntt  nid  gwiw  J  mi  soonn  mwy 
ynny  matter  Achymerud  vyngham  ynnoddeiius  megis  yn  gosh  am 
vynghamwedde  a  gaddel  i  duw  dreuynur  matter  yr  hwnn  addial  vynghara 
J  ar  i  blant  ef  ai  'wyrionn  oni  bydd  vddunt  ar  gymerud  ydiueirwch 
agwneuthud  ifawn  am  danno  ynny  byd  hwn  Hyn  a  ddaruu  ^  mi  i 
sgriuenv  brag  mynned  y  matter  drosgof  ynn  Hanbassapb. 

Yma  ynnol  J  dilin  ar  draethawd  byr  Gronickyl  ftoigyr  o  william 
bastart  normand  byd  ynnamse[r]  y  brenin  Edwart  [vi.] 

a  megis  ac  f  bo  yn  haws  Jrdariieawdyr  gaffel  y  kyuriw  vatteri  ac 
ysydd-yngynhwysol  o  vewn  hyn  o  lauur 

A  brief  Table  of  Contents  follows  here,  and  the  text  begins  un  folio  5  : 
Ynnesa  ar  ol  alexsandyr  ne  byldibrand,  J  gwnaethbwyd  grigori  y 
seithtied  or  hennw  ynn  baab,  ynn  y  vlwyddyn  o  oedran  krisd  mil  a 
Ix  a  xiij  o  vlynyddoedd     .... 

1076.  Edwart  y  kyntta  .  .  .  .  ne  Edwart  goesse  no  hegle  hirlonn 
....  a  goroned  ynn  westmynysdjT  yn  vrenin  or  dyrnas  hon  ar  y  xix 
dydd  0  vis  awst  m  .  cc  .  Ixxiij   .... 

108.  Ynn  y  vlwyddyn  gynnta  oi  vvladychiad  ef  J  bu  uarw  Sioned  ne- 
elsabeth  merch  shion  brenin  Hoygyr  gwraig  ftywelynn  tywysog  kyniru  or 
hon  J  biassai  ^do  ef  vab  a  elwid  danudd  a  merch  yr  hon  aelwid  gwladus 
ddu  Ac  o  vewn  serttaiii  oamser  ynnol  J  marw  hi  ^r  ym  kannodd  ef 
briodi  merch  J  Seimwnt  Mwmford  y  mab  hynna  J  sdmwnt  Mwmford 
fax&  layssedyr  yr  hwn  a  ddaruoedd  Jv  brenin  heuri  y  iii  dydd  ^ 
ddeol  ef  aSan  or  dyrnas  ho||n  yn  dragwydd  yr  hwn  megis  ac  f  mae 
vynghopi  i  yn  dangos  aoedd  ef  ai  blant  ai  dylwyth  yn  trigo  ac  ynn  arcs 
ovewn  tyrnas  ffrainck  Or  man  ynnol  ymddiuan  J  kydsyniodd  ef  yn 
ebrwydd  aroddi  J  vercb  ynn  ddyweddi  ifr  tywysog  ttywelyn  Ac  J 
gyulowni  J  addewid  y  voo  aordeiniodd  seimwnt  mwmfordd  serttein  o 
longe  agwyr  mewn  harnais  Ac  aymer  mwmfordd  J  vrawd  ynn  gappten 
arnaunt  twy  J  vynned  dros  y  mor  J  arvf edd  y  verch  J  gymrv  Y  bwriad 
aramkan  hwn  addoeth  J  glust  y  brenin  yr  hwn  a  gymerth  y  matter  yn 
soredig  ynn  vn  wedig  am  Ji  tywysog  ymkan  gwneuthud  kyuathrach  ai 
elynn  ef  or  achos  J  danuones  ef  lethyrau  ynn  ddirgel  att  vershiandwyr 
Brusdo  J  orchymyn  vdduntt  twy  gymerud  serttein  o  wyr  a  ftonge  A 
disgwyl  y  mor  yn  ddisgeulus  brag  f  aemer  gaffel  m^ned  J  gymru  yr 
hrain  drwy  ysibiwyr  agowsant  y  gair  megis  ac  ^r  ydodd  aeymer  ac  ^deun 
J  neth  ar  i  Itongau  yn  aros  y  gwynt  J  gymerud  y  moor  Ar  yr  hwn  J 
kyuaruu  gwyr  Brusdo  ac  aymer  ai  nith  yr  hwn  a  ddaliasant  twy  ai  hoH 
bobyl  ynn  garcharorion  Ac  ai  dugasant  twy  att  y  brenin  Ynn  ebrwydd 
]fawn  Ji  hedodd  y  chvvedlau  hynn  f  gymru  att  yrarglwydd  Lytvelyn  yn 
neb  agymerth  y  matter  ynn  soredig  Ac  ynn  ysmidwg  ac  yn  amarch  mawr 
Or  acho*  J  kyuodes  ef  lu  mawr  o  wyr  mewn  haranais  Ar  hrain  drwy 
greulondeb  Jr  amkaunodd  ef  ddial  J  veuyl  ai  amarch  drwy  wneuthud 
bryuel  mawr  ar  vordorau  Hoygyr  ynn  yr  auaelion  leoedd  drwy  ladd  a 
Sosgi  ac  ysbeilio  A  diuurio*  muroedd  ymrauaelion  gesdylt  or  tuoedd 
hwnw  ^  loygyr  Affan  ddannonai  y  brenin  J  erchi  ^ddo  ef  beidio  y 
tywysog  a  archai  Jr  kenhiadau  ddamuno  ar  y  brenin  ddanuon  ]fddo  ef  J 
wraig  yn  vorwyn  ac  y  vo  a  beidiai  Ar  hryuel  ac  awnai  ^awn  am  y 
dresbas  awnaethoeddai  ef  Keithyr  ynnol  hir  ymddiuann  yr  achoshion 
yma  f  kyuodes  y  brenin   lu  mawr  o  wyr  mewn  harnais     Ar  hrain 

*  di-vur-io,  to  dismantle. 


216  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   158. 

^1-  aeth  Ef  'j  ymkanv  disdrowio  kymru     Neithyr  drwy  ym  huedd  ac 

ym[l09]bil  y   pennaethiaid  ar  gwyrda  o  bob  vn   or  ddwyblaid  y  vo  a 

wnaethbwyd  yna  dda  hryngtho  ef  ar  brenin  ^r  neb  J  goiuu  ary  tywysog 

Roddi  deeng  mil  a  deugain  o  vorkieu  ynn  iawn  ^r  brenin  am  y  dresbas 

awnaethai  ef  ai  bobyl  ar  vordorau  itoygyr     Ac  ir  kaffel  priodi  eidenn  . 

verch  Seimwnt  mwmfordd     Ynn  y  gyngrair  medd  y  kronickyl  seissnick 

f   goruu   ar    yr   arglwydd   lywelynn   wneuthud   ftw   drwy  veichiau  a 

gwysdlon  ^r  brenin  Edwai't  ar  vod  ynn  vuydd  ac  yn  g[o]wir  -fddo  ef 

ac  ar  ddyuod  yw  barlement  ef  pa  bryd  byunag  ac  J  danuonai  ef  J 

genhiadau  ai  lythyrau  yw  gyrchu  ef  ar  hoS  brosses  or  gyngrair  hon  a 

beris  y  brenin  J  hysgriuenv  wynt  mewn  dwy  Endentturs  dan  selau  J 

haruau  wynnt     Ac  ynn  y  modd  hwu  J  gwuaethbwyd  pen  or  anundeb 

yma  yr  hwn  a  barhaodd  agos  J  ddwy  vlynnedd    Ac  ynny  drydedd 

vlwyddynn  o  wladychiad  y  brenin  Edwart  J  peris  ef  alw  J  barlement  yn 

westmynysdr     Ynn  yr  hwn  Jrordeiniwyd  deliuro  y  kyuriw  ysgoliieigion 

a  ddaruyddai  J  tidtio  o  ffeloniaeth  ac  wedi  J  barnu  y  maruolaeth  am  J 

tresbas  dan  gyuraith  y  brenin  J  garchar  Esgob  J  mae  y  kronick  Beiss[n]ig 

yn  dangos  wrthod  or  tywysog  ddyuod  ^r  par[l]ement  hwn  raegis  ac  Jr 

addowsai  ef  ar  i  Iw  megis  ac  J  mae  hynn  o  lauur  ynn  dangos  ynny 

blaenn  or  achoi  ^r  eginodd  aughariad  or  newydd  hrwng  y  brenin  ar 

tywysog     Or  achos  hwn  J  peris  y  brenin  gadarnhau  kasdeH  hruddlau 

ynn  gadarn  a  muroedd  ag  a  fPossudd  gida  gwyr  a  bittel  ynn  yr  amser 

J  peris  ef  osod  gwyr  ar  waith  J  edeilad  kasdeK  ynny  dref  a  elwir  y 

fllintt     Ynn  yr  amser  yraa  J  gwnaeth  y  tywysog  J  esgus  ar  y  kyuamser 

hwn  drwy  ddywedud  na  oddeuai  bendeuigion  kymru  fddo  ef  ddyuod  ^r 

parlmentt     Yr  hynn  a  gymerth  y  brenin  ynn  lie  da  ar  hynn  o  amser  drwy 

druth  gwyrda  ac  ym  bil  dauudd  vab  ^erwerth*  brawd  y  tywysog  y  neb  ar  y 

kyuamser  yma  a  oedd  yngwasanaeth  y  brenin  Ed[l096.]ward  Ac  a  viasei 

ynn  J  wasanaether  ynn  hir  o  amser  ynny  blaenn    Y  neb  aoedd  yn  vawr 

J  gymeriad  gidar  brenin  ai  gyngor  Jt  neb  megis  ac  J  mae  vynghopi  i 

ynn  dangos  f  hroddes  y  brenin  Arglwyddiaeth  ffrottsam  yn  swyth  gaer 

Iteonn   ar   ddwrduw   ^ddo  ef  ai  ettiueddion   yn  dragowydd    drwy  J 

wneuthud  ef  yun  varchog     Ynn  yr  amser  yma  Jr  ydoedd  ymrauaelion 

o  ftidswyr  ynn  amy  I  o  dreui  a  gwledydd  o  vewn  y  dyrnas  hon  y»  klipio 

mwnai  a  math  y  brenin  or  achos  J  peris  ef  alw  parlement  J  geisio 

gwneuth[ur]   hryw  dreuyn    or    ysbail    hon   yr  hynn  a  oedd   ynn   y 

chweched  vlwyddyn  o  wladychiad  y  brenin  Edward  ynn  yr  amser  J 

kaffwyd  ynghwaneg  J  iijC  or  iddewon  ynn  eu  og  or  mater  hwn    A  dau 

sais  yr  hrain  oH  addienyddwyd     Ac  ynn  yr  amser  yma  ^  peris  y  brenin 

ai  gyngor  ysmuddo  y  Shiawnssri  ar  Estshieker  ar  Komuwu  Plas  arhott 

gyuraith  o  wesmysdyr  J  dref  glawdiws  megis  ac  J  mae  hrai  or  Hyure 

yn  dangos  ac  J  mae  hrai  erailt  or  Kyure  mae  J  ymhwythig  J  danuones 

ef   esdedduod  J  gyuraith     Onid  niwna  matter  f  ba  un  or  ddwy  dre  J 

danuones  ef  J  gyuraith  kanis  J  maer  hoU  lyure  yn  dangos  na  chyn- 

lialiwyd  y  gyuraith  yno  onid  vn  term  ynn  yr  hwn  J  gwnaethbwyd 

ttawer  o  gyureithiau  adeuodau  tu  ac  att  vordorau  kymru    Ac  ynn  yr 

viiiued  vlwyddyn  o  wladychiad  y  brenin  Edwart  y  kyntta  J  peris  ef 

wneuthud  ariann  maan  yr  hyn  y  sydd  yw  ddywedud  dimeiau  a  ffyrdd- 

lingiav  or  hrain  ni  biasai  er  moedor  bl[a]enn  ddim  or  kyuriw  ....  Ac 

ynu  y  ixed  vlwyddyn  oi  wladychiaad  ef  J  kynodes  anghariaef  hrwng 

y  brenin  a  dauud  vab  Jerwerth*  neithyr  nid  ydiw  vy  awctor  f  ynn  dangos 

dim  or  achos  neithyr  J  maer  ysgriueu  ynn  dangos  ffoo  o  ddauudd  att 

ly  welyn  J  vrawd  J  wynnedd   A  c  ar  vyrder  o  ennyd  ynn  ol  J  peris  y  brenin 

gyuodi  ifu  mawr  o  bobyl  mewn  harnais  J  vyned  J  ddisdrowio  gwyn- 

nedd  ac  J  ddwyn  y  tywysog  ai  v[iio]rawd  yn  garcharorion  ^  loygyr  Ac 

*  The  writer  has  confused  Prince  Uytrelja  with  his  grandfather. 


ELLIS   GRIFFITH'S  HISTORY.  217 

ynn  gappteniairf  or  siwrnai  hon  f  gwnaeth  y  brenin  ddau  ^arft  nid 

amgen  nog  ^arB  Swrre  ac  farH:  Gogledd  hwmbar  yr  hrain  A  gym- 

huHodd  J  pobyl  ynghyd  .  Ac  addoethant  parth  a  thre  gaerJieon  yr  Iiynn 

ni  bu   anwybod  Jv  tywysog   ac  J  ddauudd  ^  vrawd  y  neb  a  gyuodes  lu 

mawr  o  ddireidwyr  kymru  yr  hrain  a  dywysodd  Bi/r  uauudd  ynn  erbyn 

^   elynnion  .  Ar  hrain  J  kyuaruu  ef  megis  ac  J    mae  vynghoppi  J  yn 

dangos  drwy  hir   broses     Ar  y  Svvmuaes  yr  hwn  y    sydd  yn  gorwedd 

hrwng  tref  Benerlawog  athre  yr  wyddgrig  yn  yr  amser  ar  He  J  trewis 

y  ddau  lu  ynghyd     Ag  yr  ymladdasantt  twy  vattel   greulon  drwy  ladd 

aniuer  luawr  o  bobyl  o  bob  vn  or  ddwyblaid  ac  ynn  benna  o  blaid  y 

saesson  or  achos  J  ffoos  y  ddau  -farS  f  dref  gaer  tteon     Ac  ynnol  J 

ddauudd  gaffel  ymaes  a  dal  Hawer  or  saesson  ynn  garcharorion  y  vo  a 

gymerth  ssi/r   dauudd  vab  iferwerth*  J  lu     Ac  Roddes  shidgii  wrth 

gasdeft  y  ftlint  ac  wrth  gassdeft  hruddlan     Ynn  yr  amser  yma  ^r  ydoedd 

y  tywysog  ftywelyn  yny  deheudir  ynn  yr  amser  J  gwnaeth  ef  anhraith 

vawr  ar  dref  aber  ysdwyth  drwy  ddiuurio  ymrauaelion  dreui  a  chesdyH 

craili  or  hrain  aoedd  yn  dal  gidar  brenin     Ac  yn  y  xued  vlwyddyn  o 

wladychiad  y  brenin  Bdwart  y  kynntta  J  peris  ef  gyuodi  Hu  mawr  o 

bobyl  ynn  swydd  gaer  ac  ynn  swydd  lonkasdyr  ^r  hrain  J   peris  ef 

ordeinio  Honge  yw  harwedd  wynnt  ar  hyd  y  dwr  o  lyrppwl  J  wynedd 

v^^•ch  konwy  a  ftu   aralt   aordeiniodd  ef   J  vynned  ar  hydd  y  ttir  drwy 

Avynedd  ^s  konwy  J  vynnedd  J  ddisdrowio   kasdeft  yr  Yri   ne  gasdelt 

aberkonnwy  yr  hwn  a  ddaruoedd  ^r  tywysog  ac  yw  brawd  J  nerthu  ai 

gudaruhau  ynn  gadar[n]  o  wyr  harnneisiol  a  muroedd  a  bittel  Jr  mann 

megis  ac  ^mae  vyawdur  J  gwedi  f  ysgriuenv  J  doeth  y  ddau  lu  yma 

Ac  arlwy  mawr  o  ymrauaelion  briannv  f  ymkanv  yniii  y  kasdett  drwy 

nerth  sawtt     Ac  ynn  .gydrym  ac  J  daruu  vddunt  wnnuuthud   hrawd  o 

goed  ac  o  wydd  tai  agwneuthud  hrawd  araii  abyrddau  J  wyi-  J  seuylt 

ar  ysgraffau     Ac  ynnol  Jt  ftanw  ddynodd  megis  ac  J  gefteint[ll06.] 

twy  ddyuod   ar  J   priannau  J  ysgolio  y   mur  y  kapptenniaid  addar- 

uoedd  ^  nodi  Jr  sawtt  aelwis  J  teulu  ac  anneidiasant  ar   y  hrawdiau 

Ar  ilugurn  gidag  wynt  y  sownio  jfrsawtt  yr  honn  addechreuodd  ynn 

Hym  ac  yn  fEyrnnig  o  boob  vn  or   ddau    du      Neithyr   y  kronickyl 

seissnig    y  sydd  ynn    danngos  na  bu    y   hrowtt    gynnttce    or    saesson 

ynaabyl  J  Eoddi  digon  o  waith  ^r  kymru     O  bwys  dyrnodiau  yr  hrain 

oddiar  y  vagwyr  J  goru  ar  y  sawtt  gyntta  or   saesson  gilio  ynnol  J 

keuynau  pobun  ar  draws  J  gilidd     Ac  anneidiassantt  aftann  o  ordyr  ar 

y  hrawd  a  oedd  ynn  beSa  oddiwrth  y  muur  yr  hon  gan  bwys  y  bobyl  a 

ssuddodd   dan  y  dwr  ynny   man  J    bodes   y   hran  vwyaf   or    bobyl  a 

ddoythai  'if  Roddi  y  ssawt    Or  achos  hwnn  J  danuoness  y  brenin  yng- 

hwaneg  o  bobyl  J  gynnal  y  sidgis  or  kyuriw  bobyl  ac  a  ddaruoedd  ^r 

brenin  J  kyrchu  dros  y  mor  o  dir  gasgoeynn  ynu  gapptenn  ar  y  rhain 

Jr  ydoedd  wr  aelwid  Sion  vesse  yr  hrain  awnaeth  lawer  o  annhraith  ac 

oddunnustirarddaadyniono  vewntir  gwynnedd  drwy  laadd  aftosgi  ynn 

dra  anhrugarog  drwy  wnneuthud  Hawer  mwy  o  ddrwg  nog  a  wneithid  ir 

ynn  hir  o  amser  ynny  blaen     Ac  ar  hrain  ^r  ordeiniwyd  ymrauaelion 

briane  hroddi  sawtt  fr  kasdeft  o  boob  tu  yn  gysdall  ai   gilidd  yr  hynn 

aganuu  y  tywysog  ai  vrawd  ai/r  dauudd  yr  hwn  adewis  y  tywysog  ynny 

kasdelt    Ac  aaeth  aiian  o  hyd  nnos     Ac  ynn  gydrym  ac  ^r  tywysog 

weled  nad  ydoedd  ef  ynn  ab[al]  J  gadw  y  kasdeii  arno  nemor  o  ennyd 

y  vo  aymkannodd  ddiang  drwy  y  Hu  ^r  mynnydd     Ac  vefty  ar  vore- 

gwaith  niwlog  y  vo  a  ddiuerodd  allann  or  kasdelt  a  sserttein  oi  bobyl 

gidag  evo    Ynn  yr  amser  megis  ac  J   mae  vynghoppi  J  ynn  dangos  J 

diengis  ef  ynn  ddiasgen  drwy  y  sidgis     Neithyr  J  maer   ysdori  ynn 

dangos  ddigwyddo  ifddo  ef  drwy  annappa    athrychineb  gyuaruod  A 

marchog  or  Hu  yr  hwn  megis  ac  J  mae  hrai  or  Hyure  yn  dangos  aelwid 

aj/r  Edmwntt  morttmer  ac  eraifi  a  ddengys  mae  si/r  Eoedgier  morttymer 


218  MOSTTN  MANtrsCEIPT  158. 

J  gelwid  y  vo  yr  hwn  a  drewis  ar  y  tywysog  ai  bobyl  ynn  glau  yr  hwn 
ynnol  hir  ymladd  A  drewis  y  tywysog  a  chledde  deurtdwrn  ar  [1111 
draws  J  vynnwgyl  or  aruod  J  "tores  ef  ben  y  tywysog  o  ddar  f  gorf 
yrhwn  megis  ac  J  maer  kronigkyl  seisnig  ynndangos  a  danuones 
morttmer  ynnanhreg  ifr  brenin  yr  hwn  ar  yr  amser  yma  aoedd  ynn 
hruddlan  or  mann  medd  y  saeson  ^  peris  y  brenin  J  ddanuon  ef  J  gaer 
ludd  A  fferi  f  ddodi  ef  ar  drosdann  ar  vn  o  byrth  y  dinas  Neithyr  y 
kronik  o  gymru  y  sydd  ynn  dangos  ddyuod  o  syr  ddauudd  ai  bobyl  ynn 
ddisymwth  am  benn  Morttmer  yr  hwn  a  oruu  f ddo  ado  y  korf  ar  penn 
ar  y  maes  a  ffo  ar  vrys  J  gortf  y  Hu  ynn  yr  amser  J  kymerth  syr 
ddauudd  ai  bobyl  gelain  y  tywysog  yr  hwn  o  vewn  serttein  o  amser 
ynnol  gladdwyd  o  vewn  mynnachlog  aberkonnwy  o  vewn  gwyddua  ne 
orweddua  J  daad  ^erwerth  drwyndwn  Ar  veedd  y  neb  5fr  ysgriuenodd 
prydydd  o  gymro  y  geiriau  hynn  mewn  gwersi  mydyr 

Yr  ymddiffynwr  gwrol  grymus 

Hywelyn  y  tywysog  ar  hriolwr  molianvs 

Ac  o  nerth  J  gledde  keidwad  trinwedde 

Ac  o  bob  kyuriw  ddyn  ac  o  arglwyddd  y  blodenn 

Tr  hwn  i  angau  heb  geed 

A  dalawdd  J  wir  ddled 

Drych  tywysogion  ac  arglwyddi 

Araun  ac  aravydd  on  keunedlaeth  ni 

O  dduwk  o  dywysog  Ac  o  wyr  dyledog 

J  gadw  y  gyuraith  ar  wyrda 

Y  vo  a  vu  y  kyuiowna 

Ynn  y  Bedd  hwnn  mcddaf  J 

i  gorwedd  tywysog  Eglurdeb  y  goleuni 

Jt   man   J    doeth  prydydd  ne   v}'drwr   o   sais  yr  hwn   awnaefh  y 
geiriau  hyn  mewn  mydyr  ac  ai  ysgriuenodd  wynt  ar  y  bedd  y  Saesneg 

•Here  leith  of  Erwr  the  pryns  yf  ye  wyl  ken 
Thif  and  Rober  &  trayttur  to  Englishmen 
A  dym  Broude  a  Sectte  of  divers  Evyl 
God  of  Welshmen  euyr  withoMt  ysgil 
Ynn  slaing  the  good  and  leader  of  the  bad 
lastly  Rewardid  as  he  deseruyd  had 
Of  Troians  blwde  the  drostes  and  not  the  sid 
A  Rwtt  of  fPalssed  and  kaws  of  menney  yll  did 

Ymaa  J  mae  ynneglur  yn  dangos  na  ddyly  neb  Roddi  gormod 
kreduniaeth  ^r  un  or  ddau  Nac  J  glod  a  moliant  y  kredigion  nag  J  ogan 
ac  anglod  y  gelyunion  Ynnol  y  vuddygoliaeth  hon  J  dodes  y  bren[in] 
serttein  o  bobyl  J  gadw  kasdett  yr  yri  a  chasdeB  hruddlan  ar  fflintt  ac 
ynnol  J  kymerth  y  brenin  J  shiwrnai  ^  Lo[iii6.]ygyr  Ynn  y  Sear 
amser  j  peris  ef  alw  parlement  ynn  wesdmynystyr  yn  yr  hwn  ]fr  ordein- 
iodd  ef  wneuthud  J  brogklamashiwns  ai  grio  ef  drwy  holt  loygyr  yn 
dywysog  o  gymru  Or  achos  J  kynhuitodd  dauudd  ne  syr  dauudd  vab 
■ferwerth  lu  mawr  o  hoft  ddireidwyr  kymru  Ar  brain  J  gwnaeth  ef 
ddunustyr  ac  annhraith  mawr  ar  denanttiaid  y  brenin  yn  gysdal  o  vewn 
kymru  ac  o  vewn  y  gwledydd  seisnig  or  achos  J  kyuodes  y  brenin  lu 
mawr  o  bobyl  yr  brain  a  ddanuones  ef  tu  a  chymru  ynnerbyn  y  neb  J 
doeth  syr  dauudd  ai  lu  ac  J  maer  ysgriven  ynndangos  gyuaruod  or  ddau 
lu  ar  vaes  garitaw  y  man  aelwir  saint  Morus  ynn  ySe  ar  amser  fr 
ymladdasantt  twy  vattel  greulon  ynn  y  lie  J  kauas  y  saeson  y  vuddyg- 

*  Compare  Higden's  Polychronicon,  vol.  yiii.  p.  269,  in  the  "  Rolls  Series.'' 


ELLIS   GEIFFITH'S   HISTORY.  2]  9 

oliaetb  drwy  laadd  y  hran  vwyaf  or  kymru  A  dala  si/r  dauudd  yn 
garcbaroi'  Ac  ef  ynn  ffo  wedi  kolti  y  maes  yr  hwn  a  beris  y  brenin 
dori  J  benn  A  dauodi  y  penn  ar  aelodau  J  bump  or  treui  penna 
ynghymru  Ynn  y  vlwyddynn  nesa  arol  hyn  yr  hynn  a  ydoedd  ynn  y 
xiiued  vlwyddyn  o  wladychiad  y  brenin  Edward  goae  hirion  ^f 
gosodes  ef  wyr  ar  waith  J  gyweiro  kaadeli  Hann  badarn  a  chasdeft 
Abe»'  ysdwyth  ynn  yr  un  hafE  J  dnnuones  ef  wyr  ^  gaernaruon  J 
edeilad  kasdeS  fr  fte  ar  man  J  doeth  e  vo  ai  vrenhines  or  honn  J 
ganned  ^ddo  ef  vab  Ar  y  ved  dydd  ar  hugaia  o  vis  EbrlH  yr  hwn  a 
beris  ef  'j  henwi  Edwartt  yr  hwn  a  beris  ef  grio  ynn  dywysog  o  gymru 
Ac  a  hennwyd  ynol  hynny  Edward  o  gaernaruon  A  hwn  a  vur 
tywysog  kynnta  o  sais  ar  auu  argymru. 

Ac;  ynol  hyn  J  danuones  y  brenin  serttein  o  wyr  J  wneuthud  J 
brocklamashiwns  drwy  hott  dywysogiaedd  gymru  o  vewn  tieui  march- 
nadoedd  drwy  herawd*  a  Hugyrn  J  erchi  ac  J  orchymyn  J  hoJi 
voneddigion  kymru  Ar  aoedd  mewn  pwyft  ac  oedran  ddyuod  j  wneuthud 
]f  fiydd  ai  gwriogaeth  ai  huuydd  dod  ai  ifin  dros  J  tir  ai  daiar  megis  ac 
yw  harglwydd  daiarol  yr  hrain  megis  ac  J  maer  kronick  seissuig  ynn 
dangos  a  ddoeth  abad  o  vn  yr  hrain  a  Rwymodd  y  brenin  drwy  Iw 
ac  ysgriueu  danseel  battend  Ar  i  bod  wynt  [112]  ai  ettiueddion  ynn 
vuudd  ac  ynn  gywir  ifddo  ef  ai  ettiueddion  brenhinoedd  itoygyr  ynn 
dragowydd  0  hynny  aftan  ac  ymddangos  ne  ymprio  gari  uron  ef  ynni 
barlemant  ynn  ftoe[g]yr  vnwaith  bob  plwyddyn  ne   kynuynyched    o 

amser  ac  J  danuonai  ef  am  dannaunt  twy 

113  Ynng  hylch  yr  amser  yma  J   dechreuodd  gwyr   sir  gaernaruan 
agwynnedd   vwch    konnw[y]   Rydwsd  a   gryngian   yn   ffesd   ynerbyn 
ybrenin   ai  gyngor  ac  yn  bena  yn  erbyre  kyuriw  wyr  ac  a  dowsai  y 
brenin  J  gadw  y  treui  megis  aber  konwy  achaer  Naruon  A  harddleeh  ac 
ynn  vn  wedig  treff  gaer  Naruon  ]fr  hon  ni  oddeuai  y  keidwaid  J  neb  or 
kymru  dyuod  0  vewn  y  pyrth  onid  ynn  ddiaruog      A  heuaid   onid 
aniuer  bychan  o  honaunt  twy  o  vewn  y  gaer  ar  vn  waitli  yr  hynn  megis 
ac  ^  mae  Hyure  kymru  yn  dangos  avu  [li36.]  drwm  a  dirftonn  ^awn 
gann  lawer  o  voneddigion  y  gwledydd  yr  hrain  ynnol '  hir  ymddiuan 
adreuis  J  pennav  ynghyd  Ac  a  wnaethant  vwriad  J  ymkanu  yniii  y  dref 
ar  kasdett  o  ddiar'y  keidweid  Ac  ynn  ddirgel  ynttwy  a  ymgynuiiasant  ac 
a  osodasant  J  bwysment  mewn  Hwyn  o  goeit  gariiaw  kaei'uaruon  Ar 
ddydd  gwyl  vchel  hrai  or  ttyure  y  sydd  yn  dangos  mae  ar  dduw  paasc 
y  boref   ydoedd  hynn  J  ymkannv  taro  J  vewn   y  portli   gida  fFobyl  y 
dreflfpan  uaint  twy    ynn   mynned  adref  or  Eglwys  yrhon  ysydd  ynn 
gorwedd  ar  dalwrn  o  dir  gymaint  ac  ergid   sayth  or  tu  aiian  ^i-  gaer. 
Ac  vefty  J  gwnaethant  twy  neithyr  J   maer   ysdori   yndangos  dori  o 
honaunt  twy  J  bwysment  yn  hry  gynnar  o  beth  yn  gymaint  ac  ifrgwyr 
aoedd  ynn  gwilio  y  muur  J  kanuod  wynt  ahroddi  hrybudd  Jr  portliorion 
J  gadw  y  porth  ynn  y  gaiad      Neithyr  valkynt  y  kymru  a    drewis  ar 
wyr  y  dref  yr  hrain  aoedd  yn  dyuod  or  Eglwys  yr  hrain  oH  a  ladassannt 
twy  henn  ac  ^euanck  Ar  a  odd  ynno  or  saesson  ar  hynny  o  amser  drwy 
dori  pennau  liymaint  oS  or  sawdwyr  ac  a  gowsantt  tvry  J  goddiwes  ynny 
man  hwnw  A  dodi  trwynn  poob  kelain  ynni  din     Ynn  yr  amser  yma 
5fr  ydoedd  vn  a  elwid  paen  tybod  ynn  dwyn  hrwysg  vawr  yngwynedd 
dann  y  brenin  yr  hwn  aoedd  yn  gwneuthud  kam  a  gorthrymder  mawr 
a  gwr  bonheddig  o  wynedd  yr  hwn  a  elwid  hrys  Mriadog  yr  hwn  a 
gynuHodd  lawer  o    ddireidwyr  kymru  ynghyd      ar  hrain  J  gwnaeth  ef 
lawer  0  annosdeg  a  blinder  ar  baenn  tebod  ac  ar  y  kyuriw  dreui  a  chesdyii 
ar  aoedd  dan  i  gadwodaeth  ef  ar  sawl  aoedd  yn  dal  oi  bartti  ef  .   .  . 

1146.  Ynny  pryd  ar  amser  yma  if  kyuodes  gwr  bon  heddig  o  dir  gwyned 
yr  hwn  a  elwid  madog  yn  erbyny  brenin  yr  hwn  agynuftodd  ddireidwyr 


220  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   158. 

y  gwladoedd  ynghyd  arhraiii  J  gwnaeth  ef  lawer  o  vlinder  ar  ddeiliaid 
y  brenin  yr  hwn  a  gyuodes  lu  mawr  yr  hrain  a  dywysodd  ef  if  dir 
gwynedd  ynn  y  drydedd  vlwyddyn  ar  hugain  oi  wkdychiad  ef  Yii  yr 
amser  J  goruu  ar  vadog  ai  bobyl  ffo  o  wynnedd  J  ynnys  voon  ifr  man 
J  dilynodd  Ku  y  brenin  y  vo  ynn  y  mann  J  kyuaruuannt  twy  ai  dau  lu  ar 
vaes  yn  y  He  f  bu  vattel  greulon  hrwng  y  kymru  ar  saeson  y  hraiu  a 
gauas  y  ttaw  vcha  drwy  Hadd  y  bran  vwyaf  or  kymru  a  dal  Madog*  yn 
garcharor  yr  hwn  a  beris  y  brenin  dori  J  ben  ef  ai  chwarteru  ef  Ac 
ynnol  y  vuddygoliaedh  hon  J  taricdd  y  brenin  yn  hir  mon  J  osodd  y 
bobyl  orgwledyddhynnardreuynn  J  vywmewn  tynghneuedd  a  heddwch 
ac  J  wneuthud  (ir  kymrv)  Roddi  J  bryd  ai  hamkann  ar  ynniH  if  bowyd 
drwy  gowirdeb  ac  j  beidio  ai  trais  Ac  ai  hraib  ynn  herwa  ac  yn 
Hadratta  pawb  o  ddiari  gilidd  ynnyr  amser  nidoedd  wr  yngwynnedd 
onnid  a  vai  wiHiad  0  vewn  yr  amser  yma  if  gosodes  y  brenin  serttein 
o  bobyl  ar  waith  J  edeilad  treff  a  chasdeii  o  vewn  ynnys  voon  ar  ewr 
morua  teeg  [us]  yr  hwn  y  sydd  yn  gorwedd  ar  Ian  menaii  y  dref  ar 
kasdeft  a  beris  y  brenin  J  hennwi  ai  alw  yn  ffrangayg  Bewmares  sef  yw 
hynny  ynn  ynn  iaith  ni  y  morua  teeg  Ac  o  lysenw  y  gair  hwn  fr  ydym 
ni  ynn  i  galw  hi  duw  mares  Ac  ynu  y  pryd  aramser  yma  if  peris  ef 
gadarnhau  hott  gesdyft  ardaloedd  kymru  drwy  Roddi  priuyledgis  abraint 
seisnig  Jr  kesdyB  ac  J  wyr  y  treui  ynn  yr  amser  J  hroddes  ef  J  gyuraith 
drwy  J  barlement  Jr  treui  seisnig  or  parth  hwnw  J  gymrii  Na.  chafFai 
gymro  vod  yn  vwrdeis  or  vn  o  honnauntt  twy  mwy  no  chi  ac  jfddew 
heuaid  ynn  yr  amser  ymaa  gwnaeth  ef  yr  actt  na  bai  Eydd  J  gymro 
bwrkasu  tir  o  vewn  tyrnas  loygyr  na  ffrynv  ftuniaeth  ynn  Hojgyr  ai 
ddwyn  J  gymrv  dann  boen  dirwy  vawr  drwy  gyuodi  ymrauaelion 
gamuaint  ar  bobyl  wynedd  yr  hrainn  o  Rym  y  kesdyS  a  gedwis  ef  megis 
aftdudion  or  achos  J  goruu  arnunt  twy  droi J  bwae  ai  gweywyr  ai  haruau 
ynn  geibiau  ac  ynn  hrawiau  ac  ynu  erydyr  -f  ynnift  J  bowyd  or  ddaiar. 

The  following  extract  is  taken  frem  the  "second  year"  of  the  reign 
of  Henry  the  IV.,  and  gives  an  account  of  the  "  rebellion "  of  Owen 
Glyndwr : — 

285  Heuaid  ynu  y  vlwyddyn  yma  if  torres  yr  argae  or  hen  gaas  ar 

gynuigen  a  viasai  ir  ynn  hir  o  amser  yn  y  blaen  hrwng  ysgwier  o  gymru 

yr  hwn   aelwid  Owaiu  glyn  dyuyrdwy  ac  arglwydd  hrwthun  y  neb 

megis  ac  if  mae  ityure  kymru  yn  dangos  addaliodd  owain  yn  garcharor 

ga?-  fiaw  Wys  maes  mynnan  ynny  He  Jr  ydoedd  yr  arglwydd  yn  kynnal 

i    lys   or   man   ^fr  arweddodd  ef  yr  arglwydd  J  vynnydd  berwyn    Ar 

hvd  y  goror  ^r  arweddodd  ef  yr  arglwydd  ynn  garcharor  oui  gordies  yr 

arglwydd  ai  gennedyl  ar  Roddi  triffwn  maeirch  yn  aur  bathof  i  owain 

yn  arianswn  dros  yr  arglwydd  erbynn  serttein  o  ddydd  ac  amser  yr 

hrain  megis  ac  J  maer  ftyuyr  ynn  dangos  a  ddanuoned  ar  dri  march  J 

gj  mru  att  owain  yr  hwn  gwedi  ^ddo  ef  edrych  ar  y  da  aganuu  yn  vuan 

na  doedd  y   ddegued  Rann  o  honnaunt  twy  yn  aur  da  or  achos  ynn 

gydrym  ac  i  y  wain  ddyaiid  ymodd  ^r  ydoedd  gennedyl  arglwydd  hruthun 

ymkauu  J  dwylto  ef  drwy  gyui'wysdra    Or  achos  y  vo  agymerth  aflan 

o  honnaunt  twy  kymaint  ac  a  vedrodd  ef  J  deffol  ynn  aur  da  ar  ftaitt  a 

ddeliurodd  ef  Jv  genniad  yw  dwyn  yw  meisder   dracheuyn  drwy  Rodd 

i  gorchymyn  ar  y  genniad  annerch  J  meistyr  oddiwrtho  ef  A  dywedud 

wrtho  ef  ynny  modd  hwn     Bid  ysbys  a  diogel.  J  bawb  o  honaoch  i  ar  y 

sydd  o  byrthynnas  ac  o  gyrennydd  ac  arglwydd  hruthun  ac  yn  wnwedig 

ir  kyuriw  wyr  ac  a  vu  or  kyngor  ac  or  bwriad  Jta  shiomi  J  nad  ydwyf 

J  am  keuedlaeth  mor  ddi  ssynwyr  ac  na  vedrwn  i  ednabod  aur  oddiwrth 

mettel  araft  a  deffol  yr  aur  da   o  vysg  yr  hrai  drwg  Jt  vy  mod  J  am 

kennedlath  yn  dlawd  o  aur     Ac  ynn  gymaint  ac  J  chwi  vyngwattwar 

*  Madodog  in  MS. 


ELLIS   GRIFFITH'S   HISTORY.  221 

J  ynn  y  modd  hwii  mjui  a  dyngaf  J  dduw  na  oHyngaf  J  arglwydd 
h[r]uthun  [2856]  byth  ynn  vyw  aftan  oi  garcbar  nes  yw  gennedyl 
ef  dalu  ^  mi  ddau  kymaint  o  aur  battbol  ynn  atianswm  drostaw  ef 
yr  boH  brosses  yma  a  ddangossed   ir  brenin  y    neb   a  gymerth   mwy 

0  lid  wTth  ywain  y  neb  a  gedwis  yr  arglw}"dd  ynn  garcharor  ifr  maint 
bygwth  y  brenin  ai  gyngor  o  vewu  yr  amser  i  gordderchodd  yr  arglwydd 
verch  J  owain  yr  hon  a  oruu  ar  yr  iarB  J  ffriodi  hi  yny  karchar  ynn 
yr  bwn  o  vewn  ychydig   o  amser  ynuol  a  vu   uarrw  ynni   garchar  yn 

01  maruolaeth  y  meb  ^daunuones  y  brenin  lu  mawr  o  bobyl  i  ddistrowio 
ywainn  yr  hwn  aoedd  ynn  ymgadw  ymynydd  berwyn  yng  hylch  goror 
main  gwynnecid  Or  man  megis  ac  J  mae  ftyure  kymrv  yn  dangos  J 
diulanodd  ef  o  vysc  J  bobyl  o  herwydd  serttein  o  eirriau  a  ddyuod 
abaad  glyn  Egwysdyr  wrtho  ef  ar  voregwaith  yr  hwn  a  oedd  wedi 
kyuodi  o  hir  vore  ac  ynn  kerdded  ar  hydd  Hethyr  bron  ac  ynn  dy wedud 
J  blygain  yr  hwn  a  gyuaruu  ac  ywstin  yr  hwn  a  ddyuoii  a  syr  abaad 
chychwi  a  godasogh  ynhryuore  nag  e  hebyr  yr  abad  chychwi  a  gyuo- 
des  yn  hryuore  o  gan  mhlynnedd  ^e  hebyr  ywain  Ac  ynnol  opiniwn 
hrai  or  kymru  yvo  a  goHes  ac  a  ddiulannodd  ymaith  o  vysg  f  bobyl 
hrag  kaffel  kywilidd  kanis  wrth  ymadrodd  yr  abaad  yvo  a  ydnabu 
yn  hysbys  nad  y  vo  ydoedd  yr  ywain  ir  ydoedd  ef  ynn  ymkauv  J 
Tod  ^r  hwn  Jv  ydoedd  y  brudiau  yn  addo  dwyn  koron  loygyr  or  aches 
i  koBes  ac  J  diualannodd  ef  yn  ddisdaw  o  blith  i  bobyl  drwy  ordeino 
J  serttaia  o  wyr  oi  gyurinach  gymerud  korf  gwr  a  viasai  varw  y  nosol 
bono  a  dywedud  mae  f  gorf  ef  ydoed  hwnnw  hrag  ovyn  J  neb  J 
geishio  ef  or  ddydd  hwnw  aftan  yr  hyn  a  wnaeth  J  wassnaethwyr  ef 
drwy  gladdv  y  korf  hwn  or  ttu  dehau  i  Eglwys  Ian  lirayadyr  y 
mochnant  Neithyr  lirai  eraiit  or  bobyl  y  ssydd  yun  tybiaid  yn  sickyr 
mae  o  eisiiiau  arian  ^  dalu  Jr  gwyr  o  Ryuel  J  diulanodd  ef  oi  mysg 
wynt  ynn  ymodd  ymn  Ac  eraiH  addywaid  mae  marw  awnaeth  ef  ynn 
ddiddowt  onid  ynn  wirNi  wna  mater  paun  or  tri  modd  hwn  f  koftes  ef 
o  vysc  J  bobyl  yr  bain  yn  gydrym  ai  ddiulanv  ef  oi  mysg  wynt  a 
ymadeiois  ar  raaes  or  He  ^r  aeth  pawb  ar  i  uan  o  eissiau  kappitten  J 
gyuaruod  ai  gelynnion  ar  y  maes  yr  brain  ynngydrym  ac  vddunt  twy 
glywed  ddaruod  J  ywain  ador  maes  ynn  yr  vn  modd  ^r  ymchwelodd 
pawb  or  saesson  ar  i  kynneuinoedd  f  loygyr 

Ac  ynn  y  [286]  modd  hwn  J  diweddodd  ywain  glyn  dyuyrdwy  yr 
hwn  a  viasai  dan  gnwck  brenin  Eitshart  a  brenin  hari  gy maint  a 
xi]   o  vlynnyddoedd  Ac  ynny  vlwyddyn  yma  J  bu    brinn  der 

a  drudaniaeth  mawr  ar  y[r]  yd  drwy  dyrnas  loegyr  ynn  yr  amser  jf 
talai  ne  kesdiai  chwartter  o  wennitli  o  vesur  Hundain  gymaint  ac  \n  swHd 
ar  bymtheg  or  kyuriw  arian  ac  aoedd  yn  arverol  ymhlith  pobyl  y  dyrnas 
ynn  yr  amser  liwnw  ac  oni  biassai  J  vershiandwyr  Boygyr  ddwyn  yd  o 
Eruwslond  ac  o  leoedd  eraift  o  barthau  y  dwyrain  i  loegyr  drwy 
vershiandi  y  vo  uiasai  law[e]r  dyn  varw  o  newyn  o  vewn  y  dyrnas  hon 
The  MS.  ends :  Ar  y  pumed  dydd  ar  hugain  o  vis  chwefror  yn  ol 
hyn  yr  liyn  aoedd  ynnechreuad  y  chweched  vlwyddyn  o  dyrnashiad  y 
Brenin  Edwardt  y  vjed  gwedur  kwnckwest  y  kroged  s''  Eaaf  avanne  a 
sj/r  meillys  parttriish  /  Ac  y  torred  penne  syr  thomas  arndel  Ar  [sic'] 
syr  mychelle  sdnnnop  ami  bod  o  gydsent  ar  duwk  o  Swmerset  yrliain  a 
gyffessodd  y  gwrthynneb  wrth  gymerud  J  maruolaeth  a  s"'  Rai'  addyuod 
yn  ddiledle  mae  dryll  o  dir  a  wnaethai  f  ddo  ef  goHi  J  hoedyl  ac  uid  am 
gadw  kyngor  Ewythr  y  brenin  yn  gyurinachol 

Ba  jf  dehjch  di  o  veddiant  Ellis  gruffylh  :  sawdiwr  o  gallts 
J  vediant  tomas  vab  tomas  vab.  shion  /  vab  gruff'udd  vychan 
i  hantt  y  Uongdy  yngwespur,  o  vewn  plwyf  Uan  assaph  yn 
sir  y  fflint  o  vewn  Tegangyl 


222  MOSTSTN  MANUSGEIPT  159. 

MS.  159.  This  MS.,  which  comes  from  the  Gloddaeth  Libr.ary, 
contains  the  texts  of  Dares  Phrygius,  Brdt  y  Brenhinedd,  Bbdt 
Y  Tywyssogion,  Life  of  St.  Sylvester,  the  death  of  Guido  of 
ViENNE,  etc.  Paper;  H|  x8  inches;  273  folios;  written  by 
"David  ap  Jenkin  amhredydd  o  Vachyanlleth ''  for  Huw  Lewis  of 
Hafodwen  in  1586-7.  On  one  fly-leaf  the  number  "  (29)  "  occurs,  on 
the  other  the  name  "Robert  Gethin";  also  li.  W.  M.  (fol.  46);  Eees 
Williams  (fol.  1196)  ;  James  Williams  (fol.  138);  Thomas,  Johnes  and 
Tho:  John  Lewys  (fol.  1436) ;  ]fevan  ap  William  and  Jevan  ap  Rees 
in  the  autograph  of  John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy  (fol.  2246)  ;  Robert 
Davies  and  William  -Jenkin  (fol.  2716)  ;  Robert  Gethin  (fols.  2726  ^nd 
2736). 

Fol.  1 .  Uyma  ddechrav  o  vlaen  ^«e[as  *  *  *  *]  Sids  o  droya  a 
rryteloed[d  *****]  echrav  y  kronikl  //  kanys  peleas  [a  oedd  vrenin] 
ynn  y  kastell  a  elwid  pelopeus  [a  brawt  a]  dedd  iddo  a  elwid  Essoii  A 
hwnnw  [oedd  a]  mab  iddo  a  elwid  Siasson  /  a  hwunw  [oedd]  gariadys 

gann  bawb  ar  a  oedd  dann  dyrnas  peleas ends  :  Rifedi  tylwytfa 

antenor  pymkant  a  dwy  vil  //  chidac  helenys  ap  priaf '  ai  vam  ai  ddwy 
chwiorydd  deykant  a  thair  mil  o  ddynion.  Ac  velly  y  terfyna  ystori 
dared  am  y  seids  o  droaf. 

Fols.  27-141.  Bryttaen  orav  or  ynnyssoedd  yr  honn  a  eltoid  gynt  y 
wenn  ynys  etc.  This  text  is  in  practical  agreement  with  Srut  Tyssilio 
as  printed  in  vol.  ii.  of  ihe  Myvyrian  Archaiology  of  Wales;  ends: 
ac  velly  i  bwriassont  arglwyddiaeth  y  brytaniaid  o  ddiwrthynt  //  a 
hwynte  i  hvnain  yn  medd}'  ar  hoU  loyger  dan  y  delstan  y  gwr  kyntaf 
or  Saysson  a  wisgodd  koron  y  dernas  //  ae  hynny  allan  i  kolles  priawd 
genedl  dernas  i  henw  //  ac  ni  allaasont  i  gael  o  hynny  allan  ond  yn 
wastad  dioddef  kaethiwed  y  Saysson  aruynt  //  a  thwyssogion  a  vy  ar 
gymry  bob  ailwers  gwedi  hynny, 

Myvi  gwallter  archiagon  rrydychen  a  droes  y  Uyfr  hwnn  o  lading  yn 
gymraec. 

Ac  velly  y  tervyna  y  Uyfr  Jvionn  yr  hivnn  lyvr  a  biav  hilw  lewis 
[?  ap^  Syr  morgan  or  hafodwen  ac  a  sgrifennodd  daiiid  ap  Jenkin 
amhredydd  o  vachynnlleth  jj  ac  ai  dechreyodd  y  trydydd  dydd  ar  ddec 
0  vis  rracfyr  ac  ai  diweddodd  y  seithved  dydd  a  vis  chwefror  pann  oedd 
oedran  hist  mil  pymkant  pedwar  ygain  a  chwech  //  1386  jj 

A  deissif  yw  genyf  ^  ar  bob  darlleawdr  kowraint  ua  veio  ormodd  ar 
yr  ysgrifenad  y  liyfr  hwnn  //  kyd  bod  llawer  o  le  beio  arno  vn  achos  yw 
na  ddyssges  mom  horrgraff  yn  dda  agarall  yw  bod  v  towydd  yn  oerfeloc 
ar  meddwl  yn  rredec  yn  g}'nt  nar  Haw  ond  bod  yr  wUys  yn  dda  ar 
vyned  ac  ef  i  ben. 

Folios  1416-142.  A  list  of  the  English  kings  from  William  the 
Conqueror  to  James  I. 

Folios  144-231,  This  version  of  Brut  y  Tywyssogion  appears  to 
be  the  same  as  that  of  Peniarth  MS.  20  =  Hengwrt  MS.  51,  and  to  have 
been  used  by  John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy  when  copying  Peniarth  MS. 
213  =  Hen:  332.  Like  those  two  MSS.  the  text  is  defective  for  the 
years  900-49,  but  unlike  them  the  present  text  breaks  off  abruptly 
with  the  year  1242.  The  following  extracts  will  help  to  explain  the 
diiference  between  this  text  and  that  of  Mostyn  MS.  116,  the  archetype 
of  the  Red  Book  Text  of  the  Bruts  : 

Pan  oedd  oydran  krist  chwechant  ac  vn  a  ffedwar  ygain  yr  aetli 
kydwaladr  vendigaid  y  lydaw  at  alan  nai  Selef  //  ac  wedi  rod  yn 
yraddidan  ar  angel  ef  aeth  y  Ryfain  wrth  i  arch  ef  //  ac  yno  i  givlad- 
ychodd  y  Sayson  ynys  brydaiu  //  a  fiym  mlynedd  wedi  vyned  ef  i 


BRUTS,  GUIDO   OF  VIENNE,   ETC.  223 

Kyfain  i  by  varw  /  pan  oedd  oed  krist  chwechant  ac  wyth  a  ffedwar 
ygain  y  deyddegfed  dydd  o  galan  mai  //  ac  yn  Eyfain  y  kladdwyd 
ef&c. 

Wyth  gant  a  thrigain  oedd  oed  krist  pann  vy  varw  raael  ssalcharn  o 
iwerddon  //  dwy  vlynedd  gwedi  hynny  i  by  kad  gweithien  ac  i  gwrth- 
la[dd]wyd  kadweithien  /  dwy  vlynedd  gwedi  hynny  y  diffeithiodd 
honuo  eglwyssec  blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  i  by  varw  kynan  nawdd  nifer  // 
blwyddyn  gwedi  hynny  i  diii'eithiawdd  kaer  efrawc  gan  gad  ygynt  /  tair 
blynedd  gwedi  hynny  i  by  gad  brynn  onnen  &c.  (cf.  Bruts,  p.  259). 

[897]  blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  i  by  varw  aldriid  vrenin  eyas 
Pann  oedd  oed  krist — 900 — naw  kant  i  by  vrwydr  meibion  Eiwal  / 
pedair  blynedd  a  naw  kant  oedd  oed  krist  pann  losged  dyfed  ddwy  waith 
gen  veibion  eidwal  /  'Jago  /  ac  ^euan  &c.  The  items  for  the  years 
goo -J/^g  are  wanting  in  the  text,  but  the  dates  have  been  manipulated 
to  make  the  work  appear  complete  (cf.  Bruts,  pp.  260-61). 

The  text  ends  :  Blwyddyn  wedi  hynny  i  mordwydd  [sic]  henri  vrenin 
Ueeger  i  beittio  ar  ol  y  pasc,  ac  arfaeth  a  oric  ar  vrenin  ffraink  y  tiredd 
a  ddygasai  kynn  no  hynny  y  vlwyddyn  honno  i  kadarnhayd  hynny  o 
gestyll  ynghymry  i  gan  vaelgwyn  kastell  gwrth  grygyn,  i  gan  John 
demynos  kastell  byellt  gan  Rosser  mortimer  kastell  mylienydd. 

Ac  velly  i  terfyna  y  llyfr  hwnn  o  gronicl  y  twysogion  a  sgrifenodd 
dd:  ap  Jenkin  i  huw  lewis  o  ddyffryn  yr  hafodwen  pand  oedd  oed  krist 
mil  pymkant  pedwar  ygain  a  saith  ac  ai  kwplaodd  yr  ail  dydd  o 
vis  mai 

Fol.  2316.  Arfav  kedifor  ap  dinawol  tair  ysgol  bachoc  o  arian  yn  y 
Sinobl  a  chwpwl  arian 
Plant  yr  arglwydd  Rys  ap  tewdwr  /     Gruff:  etc. 

Fol.  2336.  ILyma  enwav  kymain  ac  a  fy  o  siryfed  yn  Sir  aherteifi 
enod         ^  wiliam  Vychan. 

2  John  Wgan  uarchoc  &c.  &c. 

Fol.  235.  ILyma  ystovi  Sylvester  gwr  da  doeth  oedd  ef  ac  essgob 
ssantaidd  val  i  dangosses  dviw  ....  ends :  ac  velly  ymadawodd  ef  ar 
byd  hwnn  yn  gyflawn  o  rinweddav  eglwys  diiw  ai  Saint  //  ai  enaid  ef 
a  esgynodd  i  ychelder  y  nefoedd  //oydran  krist  oedd  yno  320  A  velly  y 
terfyna  &c.  written  by  dd:  ap  Jenkin  11  Feby  15% 

Fol.  251.  llyraa  bwngk  addamhweiniodd  wythnos  a  diwrnod  kynn 
nadolic  bedair  blynedd  ai-  ddec  a  thrychant  wedi  geni  ifessii  grist  //  mewn 
tref  a  elwid  alesty  pedair  milltir  ar  hygain  o  dre  vien  yn  ffraink  ar  gyfenw 
or  dydd  hwnnw  //  Gwir  vy  varw  bwrdais  a  elwid  gwido  //  Yr  hwnn  a 
wnaeth  lawer  o  derfysc  a  thristwch  ar  i  wraic  biiod  //  ac  yno  kafEel  or 
wraic  yni  chyngor  vyned  i  dy  y  brodyr  pregethwyr  ymddiddan  ac  hwynt 
ac  ar  prior  //....  ac  yno  i  dwad  i  chyflwr  ai  gofyd  ....  peri  a 
wnaeth  y  prior  ganv  kloch  wys  i  wssio  yr  hoU  vrodyr  yr  kabidyldy 
ym  gynghori  ac  wynt  .  .  .  :  .  ends :  ac  vellv  gwedi  hynny  y  pasc 
ymwrando  am  yr  ysbryd  a  wneythant  yn  y  lie  hwnnw  ac  ni  chlowad  yno 
ddim  o  bono  /  am  hynny  i  kredasont  i  godi  ef  i  dyrnas  gwlad  nef  yr 
hwnn  i  dyko  diiw  boll  gyfoethawc  ninav  drwy  vychedd  dragwyddol 
amen. 

I'ol.  258.  Hardd  pob  newydd  //  anweddys  pob  hen  //  Neyadd  pob 
diddos  //    ^ach  pob  kowir  //  kyfoythoo  pob  diddlyed  //  &c. 

Fol.  2686.  ILyma  enwav  y  trithlws  ar  ddec  o  vi-enin  dlyssav  ynys 
brydain  //  Y  kyntaf  yw  kleddyf  Rydderch  hael  pann  i  tynnai  wr  arall 
ef  or  wain  ef  a  enynai  yn  dan  oi  groes  hyd  i  vlaen ends  ;  y 


224  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  159. 

trydydd  ar.  ddee  yw  kawc  gwyddno  garanir  bwyd  gwr  a  roid  yndo  bwyd 
kann  wr  a  gaid  o  honno. 

Fol.  259.  Tri  Ryfel  mewn  heddwch  a  bery  byth  /  Nid  amgen  dryg- 
■wraic  /  a  drj c  dir  /  a  dryc  aiglwydd //  ....  ends:  TrifFeth  yssydd 
yn  amlhav  yn  y  byd  kenfigen  /  a  drygioni  ac  ysgymyndod. 

Fol.  2596.  JLyina  ystori  alisdys  yn  kynghorri  elixander  mawr  o 
dduw  dec  pann  vor  Uafyr  ar  pryddder  ar  y  galon  anodd  o  betli  yw  ir 
wyneb  nai  gely  nai  gyddiaw  //  ac  yno  edrych  ar  wyneb  y  mab  a  oric 
alistotlys  ac  ydnabod  ar  goehder  wyneb  elixawuder  vod  yndo  lid  a 
chyffro  //  a  gofyn  a  oric  ef  ir  mab  pa  achos  a  oedd  bynny  //  ac  yno 
megis  mab  da  difalch  dygwyddo  a  oric  ar  dal  i  liniav  garbron  i  athro 
....  llyma  vynghwyn  i  am  Hid  nid  amgen  nam  bod  ^  vy  hvn  yn  vab 
^efank  gwann  /  am  tad  yn  wr  henn  gwannbrydd  darfodedie  //  a  bod  i 
gyfoeth  ef  yn  ddi  arddelw  ac  heb  ymddifin  iddaw  a  bod  dared  vrenin 

yn  gorchfygy  groec  &c ends :  nid  o  gas  ar  neb  i  roedd  ef  mor 

ffyrf  ac  mor  ffest  a  hynny  //  ond  er  kadw  ac  ymddiffin  i  gyfoeth  ai 
wchder  ai  ffyniant  i  hvn  /  ac  o  drachwant  i  henw  a  chlod  yr  oedd  velly. 

Fol.  2636.  ILyma  galandar  a  elwir  torr  ymrysson  Sef  achos  i  gelwir 
ef  velly  am  vod  yndo  gwrs  yr  havl  a  chwrs  y  Uoeyad  //....  ends : 
Dav  pymp-wyth-uid  llwyth  ym  Haw 
vn  ar  ddec-tri-ar-ddec-trwy  ddigiaw 
ar  ddav  wyth-i-loer-a-ddaw 
a  dod  vn  wedi  deynaw 

Fol.  2646.  "  Y  may  Dauid  ^fevan  M  ILoyd  yn  disif  kel  benthig  y 
llyvyr  hwn  vn  haner  blwyddyn  ac  obydd  dim  ar  vyllaw  ine  o  bleser  ve 
vydd  parod  ychwithe  yn  wir  na  llyvyr  Da  chyngor  a  vo  yn  vn  llyvyr 
veddw  i  arno"  in  a  llth  century  hand. 

Fol.  2656.— 271a.  Kalendar. 


MS.  160.  Cywtbeu  AC  Odleu  from  the  Cors  y  Gedol  Librai-y. 
Paper ;'  1 1|  x  7^  inches ;  532  pages  ;  slightly  imperfect  at  the  corners 
and  edges  (pp.  241-276;  511-526);  bound  in  white  vellum.  The 
entire  MS.  is  in  one  hand — circa  1600. 

The  following  names  are  written  in  the  margins  :  "  John  Pughe," 
"Eowland  Kelly,"  "  H.  Hughes,"  (p.  1)  ;  "  Humffrey  Johnes,"  "Jean 
Kichiards"  (p  398)  ;  "llichard  Evans  is  my  name  and  tra  honre  of  this 
book"(p  410)-  "  Mr.  Jeffrey  Oldfeild,"  "  Mr.  Eandle  Stodart  gent.," 
«  Mr.  Harry  Vaughan  gent."  (p.  41'2)  ;  "  William  Humfirey,"  "1663  " 
(p.  421)  ;  "  Humffrey  John  "  (p.  503). 

Y  kywyddav  ymrysson  rhwng  owen  gwynedd  a  william  llvn 
1      duw  a  Roe  mvr  dyrav  main     ....  n  r  "^ 

dirjno  duw  yr  einioes  '-'•  ^• 

3      y  llys  gwydvr  Uiaws  gadarn     ....  h.'  tt    '' 

i  gaer  gai  at  y  gwr  gwyn  '^•-«'- 

5       Owain  irwalch  an  evrai     ....  n   P    " 

gorgi  drwg  i  gaergai  draw  ^-  ^• 

7       y  Hew  deg  maes  llidiog  main     ....  nr  rr    ^ 

a  gwnaed  a  gwellhaed  y  Hall  '♦'•  ^' 


KYWYSEU  YMRTSSON.  225' 

9      Ami  yw  gwawd  ymlaen  gwyr     ....  a 

oni  chaett  yn  iach  itti  0.  G. 

12       Gwir  yn  wir  nid  garw  i  neb     ....  If 

treia  dy  ras  tyrd  ir  iawn  W^-  -K. 

Kywydeu  ymrysson  rhwng  J.  ap  H.  Swrdwal  a  ILowdden 

14  Gorav  swydd  fal  gyrrv  saeth     ....  c 
a  mine  /  n  /  dwyn  meinwen  deg         jfeuan  ap  ho:  swrdwal 

15  Gwir  ^euan  f y  /  r  /  geiriav  genaid      ....  d 
at  feinwen  Uattai  fenyw                                            llowdden 

y  Ttowydde  ymrysson  rhwng  Sr.  L.  Meudwy  a  Sr.  P.  Emlyn 

17  Klowch  son  megis  cloch  sais    ....  c 
anysg  oedd  am  nas  gwyddwn                 Syr  lewys  mevdwy 

18  Syr  lewys  felys  i  fwyd    ....  / 
di  fwyd  yw  dy  dv  fevdwy                       Syr  phitipp  emlyn 

Y  kywydde  ymrysson  rhwng  G.  Glyn  a  Howel  dd: 
20       mawr  ywr  dysg  yno  mae  /  r  /  da     .     .     .     .  g 

i  fenisi  raf  inav  gytto  /»•/  glyn 

22  Ehyfedd  ydyw  ar  fedydd     ....  h 
o  daw  rhag  hir  dr-gaw  hwnn           ho:  dd:  ap  Jen:  ap  Rhys 

Kyngor  ir  fronfraith  aetlie  ar  gyveiliorn  or  plus  newydd 

23  Gwnevthvm  oed  yn  y  koed  kav     ...  i 
dwys  maethdravl  yn  dysmwythdra         Myth}  ap  Rhisiart* 

26  Atteh :  y  keiliog  di  dayog  don     ....  k 

hap  Iwys  nod  ir  plas  newydd  hvw  ap  Rys  wynn\ 

Cywyddeu  "  ynghylch  gwenn  or  ddol " 
28       yr  eglurbavn  ar  glaerbais     ....  I 

a  dwg  wen  o  dv  i  gwr  davydd  nanmor 

30  Madyn  Ronwyn  yr  enwir     ....  m 
yno  am  wenn  ni  a  ymwanwnn                     Rys  goch  o  ryri 

Ymrysson  am  y  degwm 

31  T  gwr  oediog  a  gredir     ....  n 
nag  aed  i  mi  ag  yd  mwy                                            J/''  harri 

3i       Y  meistir  uis  amav  estrawn     ....  o 

e  gyst  avr  yd  gwas  dewr  wy         Jewxn  tew  hrydydd  hen 

Y  kowydde  ymrysson  rhwng  dd:  ap  gwilim  a  gr:    rug 
35       y  ferch  dan  yr  avr  llathrloyw     ....  jt 

tri  awch  saeth  fydd  browdfaeth  bradwy        D.  ap  GwUim 


36 

tryan  mor  glaf  yw  davydd          .     . 
angav  am  arvav  morvudd 

G.  Grug  ' 

37 

kynnydd  kerdd  bvn  o  vnflwydd     . 
tal  am  wawd  tal  vm  oi  waith 

r 
D.  ap  Gtoilim 

39 

Gwell  oedd  be  bai'gyvaill  vm     .     . 
seren  brenn  er  i  sori 

.     .                                 s 
G.  Grug 

40 

Grifft  i  blwyf  i  grefft  a  blyg     .     . 
om  dawr  gwynn  ab  nvdd  im  dwyn 

.     .                                     t 
D.  ap  Gwilim 

*  "  0  fyfyrian,  mon."                             t 

"  0  fosoglen." 

e 

87130. 

V 

228 


MOSTYN  JMANUSGRIPT  160. 


42  davydd  pam  nad  ydivar a 

mogel  nid  wyf  Eys  nieigen  G.  GrUg 

43  gryffydd  grug  ddirmyg  ddarmerth     ....  j 
Byrhaed  fi  syrhoed  a  fvm.                                 D.  ap  Gwilim 

45  Gwyrful  wawr  eiddil  Ryddoeth     ....  g 
y  prydydd  davydd  i  dad                                            G.  Gt4g 

46  Aerblank  yw  gryfEydd  wyrblvg  ...  rf 
rhefr  gwydd  gad  rhofi  ar  gwr                        D.  ap  Gwilim 

47  Davydd  ab  gwilym  ni  bv     .     .     .     .  g 
tristach  meddiant  pob  cantref 

bellach  naw  Uawenach  nef  G.  Grug 

49  Trist  oedd  ddwyn  trais  kynhwynawL    ;     .    .     .  f 
ir  nef  gwiw  oedd  ef  i  ddaetb.                        D.  ap  Gwilim 

50  Kowydd  yn  canmol  chware  disie  a  chardie 

Y  gwyr  a  wnai  /  r  /  gaer  yn  well     ....  g 

chwarevwch  ag  na  choeliwch  chwi  Sion  ap  howell 

61  Kerydd  am  chware  disie  a  chardie 

Duw  a  weryd  i  wirion     ....  k 

yr  arddwyr  biav  /  r  /  vrddas 

ar  grawn  ar  egin  ar  gras 

pwy  biav  y  nef  hefyd 

llei  bon  ond  Uafurwyr  byd     .... 

beth  yw  mameth  pob  methiant 

segyrvd  chweinllyd  a  chwant     .... 

yn  ardwyr  hwyr  yn  wyrda       gr:  ap  feu:  ap  lle'n  vychan 

Koviydde  ymrysson  rhvong  Jeu:  tew  a  Bedo  havesb 
53       fymrawd  ai  yma  ir  ydych     ....  i 

ath  ben  mollt  ath  follt  ath  fas  jfeuan  tew  hrydydd 

55  Kowydd  i  wneythvr  kymod  rhyngddynt 
heddychwyr  heddyw  ychod     . 
obrv  yw  ddwyn  bar  y  ddav 

57       Brad  oedd  mal  bwriad  ^fddew 
a  fynnai  i  hvn  yw  fwynhav 

59  Ond  ynfyd  koeg  ysbryd  kaeth     ....  i 
tynny  i  ddant  om  tin  oedd  well                           jfeuan  tew 

60  Gwann  i  rhoed  i  ganv  rhawg     .... 
.a  cherdd  fal  na  chwardd  i  fam  bedo  havesb 

63  Kowydd  i  ofyn  bwa  i  syr  lewis  mynach  o  efenni 
kann  hawdd  fyd  kanv  i  ddwyfi 


Syr  Robert  miltwn 


bedo  havesb 


a  duw  eilchwel  ai  diolcho 


thomas  derllys 


Ktwtbev  Tudtr  Aled: 

64      Jolo  pynt  pob  elw  a  gai    .     .    .    . 
kaisied  gvddio  kest  gwiddon 

66       y  tri  maib  at  yr  yman     .... 
maer  rhythvn  vm  ai  rhotho 

68       Powys  Iwyd  pwy  sy  wladwr    .     .     . 
rhag  kvro  /  r  /  ewig  hirwenn 


Tudyr  Aled 


70      y  dref  ar  dorr  yr  afon     ....  a 

dy  wr  ai  gwisg  fal  draig  wen  tudyr  Aled 

72       pwy  a  Rann  gwaed  prennav  gwin     ....  6 

amgylch  haul  am  y  gwalch  hwnn 

74       Bwriwyd  help  ar  y  brud  hynn     ...  c 

bid  ar  vu  bedair  einioes 

76      pwy  /  n  /  rhoi  y  wch  peniaith  y  rhawg     ....  d 

ado  a  roes  i  dir  ial 

78  Kywydd  i  davydd  abad  ystrad  tnarchell 

Pwy  sy  benn  yn  passio  byd    ....  e 

dan  bwyth  devnaw  o  bethav 

80  Kywydd  i  syr  Rys  ap  thomas 

Saint  ^orys  ai  wayw  yn  taraw     ....  f 

tair  bran  end  duw  ar  brenin 

82  Tair  annerch  a  ytt  Reinallt     ....  g 
eryr  y  tir  er  rhoi  /  r  /  tarw 

83  Moliant  5  mab  sion  salbri  o  lanrhayadr 

Pe  Rhon  torri  prenn  tirion     ....  h 

pvm  aerwy  hen  fo  i  pvm  rhodd 

86  Kywydd  i  Mastr  Robert  ap  Rees 

Ar  goel  vn  dyn  niaer  glendyd     ....  i 

hyd  dydd  brawd  diwedd  brevder 

88  fforys  ap  Jeuan  o  langedwyn  tad  Rob:  amhorys 

Morys  drych  y  marsdir  ychel     ....  k 

nath  rann  di  nath  air  yn  does 

91       Pie  Rhent  gryfEudd  ap  Rhys  / 

how  el  pie  ynhai  powys     .... 
howel  del  ywch  hoedl  a  iechyd 

93  Moliant  sion  ap  davydd  abad  llyn  y  gwystyl 

Evron  ywch  goron  ewch  i  gevrydd     ....  m 

evro  rhaid  ar  i  rhediad 

96  Kywydd  i  gr:  llwyd  ap  Elissey  ap  gr:  ap  eign' 

duw  a  Roes  llwyn  dros  y  llaill     ....  » 

kyw  owain  glynn  kan  y  gloch 

98   Owdl  i  Jarll  sion  grae 

Jarll  sion  gwayw  vnion  eginyn     ....  © 

heb  enw  ^arll  ar  y  penn  ol 

100  Kywydd  i  syr  Roger  salusburie  o  lyweni 

Aer  llyweni  Jarll  wyneb     ....  p 

ir  byd  par  wybod  pwy  wyd 

103  Owdl  farwnad  i  Sr  thomas  salbri 

Gwae  holl  gred  trymed  tromwedd     ....  q 

am  nas  ynill  grym  /  sy  /  n  /  holl  gred 

106  Bar:  Rhys  ap  m'edd  o  hiraethog  tad  M'  Rob:  ap  Rys 

Trwm  fy  lif  trem  fel  afon     ....  »• 

del  i  oes  rhwng  dwylaw  Jesv 

109  Marwnad  davydd  ap  edmwnd 

Haw  duw  a  fv  yn  lladd  awen     ....  s 

roi  pyradwys  ir  prydydd 

P  2 


228  MOSTTN  MANUSCRIPT  160. 

110  Marwnad  davydd  llwyd  ap  tydvr  o  Jal 

Tros  ^al  i  troes  hevlwenn     ....  a 

gar  Haw  duw  y  gwr  llwyd  o  ial  Tudyr  Aled 

112  Mar:  kolvel  ap  Jenkin  o  ynys  y  maengwyn 

llwyn  oedd  vm  mewn  lie  ne  ddav     ....  b 

fyth  o  hayach  o  fath  howel 

114  {Marwnad  Robt:  up  Sion  o  lann  Evrgain) 

J  gwr  marw  fo  gar  morwyn     ....  c 

dy  ddiben  fydd  dydd  heb  nos 

116  {Marwnad  dd:  vyehan  o  fronnheilog) 

Trvan  mor  wanii  ywr  einioes     ....  d 

mair  i  adel  myredydd 

118  Barnad  owen  ap  meirig  o  von 

kiikxx  duw  ar  fodeon     ....  e 

derbyn  hydd  dewr  bonheddig 

119  Marwnad  tydvr  llwyd  o  ial 

Mawr  yw  pwys  duw  marw  post  ial     ...     .  / 

dyro  nef  i  deyrn  ^al 

122  J  verch  :  Gwae  wr  a  wnai  gaer  ne  wal     ....  g 

aeth  ir  bedd  ath  Rybyddiodd 

123  ^ verch:  Gofalu  heb  dv  heb  dal     .     .    .  h 

pann  fynych  yw  penn  feinioes 


KOWYBEU  AC    OdLEV    DaVTB   NaNUOR  : 

124       doeth  vn  mab  ysbryd  a  thad     .... 

gwledd  i  mab  arglwydd  amen  Davydd  Nannurr 

126  dysgais  yn  y  modd  i  disgyn     .... 
yn  vn  duw  ag  yn  win  da 

127  Owdl  i  ddavydd  ap  Jeuan  ap  eignon 

dewis  wyd  wr  llwyd  ar  hoU  wyr  brytain    .... 
ar  roi  doed  o  iesv  ner  /  hyd  i  dewisvd 

Kowydd  ac  Odleu  i  arglwydd  y  towyn 

131  Rys  orav  yn  hir  is  aeron     .... 
i  Rys  faint  a  Roes  o  fwyd 

132  Genav  jrj  glycn  towyn  finteioedd     .... 
hyd  ir  aeth  y  glod  i  draeth  y  glynn 

134  Rhys  or  fel  ynys  flaenawr/     .... 
o  by  fab  i  wraig  ni  bwyf  heb  Rys 

135  Owdl  i  groessi  harri  wythved 

mwrog  fawr  wrthiog  a  Roes  /  ynn  harri     .... 
ag  yn  emerawdr  i  gwna  mwrog 

137  Kywydd  i  edmwnt  a  siasbar 

Y  ddevwr  nrglwyddaidd     .... 
i  gadw  aelwyd  gydwaladr 

139  Marwnad  arglwydd  y  towyn 

du\^■  mawr  nef  a  llawr  ef  an  lias     .... 
tryan  fy  y  lief  trwy  nef  a  llawr 


DAVID  NANMOR  AND  GUTTO'b  GLYNN,  229 

141  Marwnad  yw  gariad 

Blin  yw  hjder  o  weryd     ....  a 

bvn  fain  a  wnel  bevno  /  n  /  fyw  Dd:  Nanmor 

142  dysgais  yn  y  modd  i  disgyn  Ac.  {see  p.  126)  b 

143  Y  kussan :  Myna  fenaid  mae  yn  fwyneb     ....  c 

mwynen  vm  ai  min  a  wnaeth 

144  Uio  evrwallt  lliw  arian     ....  d 
farw  llio  friallev  wallt 

146   y  hae  bedw  :  Eirchiad  wyf  archiad  ofydd     ....  e 

yn  arwydd  at  wenn  or  ddol 


KrwYBEU  Gytto'r  Glynn. 

147  Ypwrs  :  mynwn  y  mod  mewn  vn  mann     ....  f 

kwff  evraid  caffo  hir  oes  Gytto'r  Glynn 

148  Marwnad  yr  arglwydd  herbart 

dawns  o  bowls  doe  in  ysbeiliwyd     ...  g 

iarll  oi  vab  arall  a  fo 

150  Kywydd  i  Sir  Richard  gethin 

Mae  glaw  am  a  glowais     ....  h 

y  Hew  dv  oil  ai  diail 

152  Kywydd  i  ofyn  kymod  Jeuan  vychan 

Sain  cristofier  a  fy  /  n  /  ofirwm     ....  i 

ar  fjnghefn  er  fynghyfoeth 

154  Moliant  meib  edward  ap  davydd  gam 

Yr  eryrod  eryraidd     ....  h 

ag  enaid  pawb  o  gnawd  pvr 

155  Kywydd  i  ofyn  korn  hela 

Siefire  ifrwyth  ossai  o  ffraink    ....  / 

geirw  yn  sied  gorn  sion 

157  f  harri  dv  o  evas  i  ddanod  i  fod  yn  tnyndyn  gybvdd 

wedi  bod  yn  i  ifienctid  yn  hael. 
y  dv  hydr  or  dehevdir     ....  m 

kollest  a  Roest  callestr  wyd 

158  Kywydd  i  feredydd  ap  Jeuan  vychan  i  erchi  march 

Meredydd  yma  ir  ydwyd     ....  n 

moes  farch  ag  arch  a  fo  gwell 

160  Marwnad  Edward  ap  dd:  or  wavn  isaf 

llawer  nos  Hew  /  r  /  wavn  isaf    ....  o 

fo  duw  nef  aed  yn  i  wart 

161  Kywydd  i  abad  llanegwestl  i  ddiolch  am  gleddav 

a  bwcled  dros  y  prydydd  p 

Mae  eryr  ar  holl  wyr  Hen     .... 
yn  arfav  mae  /  n  /  ar  fy  medd 

163  Mar:  kowel  ap  owen  o  lanbrynmair  gorhendad  wmffre 

wynn  ap  tho:  ap  himffrey  ap  dd:  ap  ho'll  ap  owen 
kuddiwyd  devrudd  katerwenn     ....  2' 

Uywenydd  oil  yw  enaid 

164  Kywydd  i  Wiliam  herbert  brawd  Jarll  penfro 

dav  dir  ni  newidiwyd  vn     .     .     .     .  *" 

ni  bo  ^arll  penfro  heb  hwnn 


230  MOSTTN  MANUSCRIPT  160. 

165  J  ofyn  ysgwl  i  wiliam  o  Rodri  dros  dd:  bromffild 

dyn  traws  fvm  yn  dwyn  tros  for     ....  a 

ar  i  gwisg  i  ra  i  gysgy  Gytto'r  Glynn 

167  Kywydd  i  Syr  Rys  ap  thomas 

karaf  vrddol  kaer  fyrddin     ....  J 

dros  i  dad  a  droes  duw  ynn 

168  Mol:  Jeu:  ap  eignon  ap  gr:  ap  IVn  ap  kynvrig  ap  osbwrn 

y  gwrda  o  gowirdeb     ....  c 

yw  tvedd  fry  hyd  tydd  frawd 

170  jf  syr  Rich:  herhart  tad  syr  R.  H.  o  drefaldwyn 

A  063  vn  plas  yn  siampler     ....  d 

a  brawd  ir  iarll  biav  /  r  /  drych 

172  Kywydd  i  arglwydd  rhaglan 

Ai  gwledd  a  wnaeth  farglwydd  wawr    ....  e 

nid  el  heb  ddwyn  y  dalaith 

173  Kywydd  i  Ann  arglwyddes  rhaglann 

Gynt  i  rhoed  yn  gynta  rhann     ....  f 

fal  i  mab  fo  wiliam  yn 

174  Kywydd  ir  brenin  Edwart  iv. 

Mae  larw  mawr  or  mortmeriaid     ....  g 

degved  wyd  dwg  fyd  i  iawn 

176  Kywydd  i  ddiolch  i  ddeon  bangor  am  bedere 

Mae  vn  keidwad  mewn  cadair     ....  A 

modfeddav  mevdwy  fyddaf 

177  Kywydd  i  ryw  tcr  o  faelor 

mi  a  ir  wlad  lie  mae  /  r  /  wledd     ....  i 

gwisg  henavr  gossawg  gwynedd 

179  Mar:  Rosser  vychan  ar  herharts  a  las  yn  y  maes  ymwmbri 

Tair  blynedd  rhyfedd  iv  /  r  /  rhain     ....  h 

brad  d  ewythr  herbart  ^evank 

180  /  S'  Roger  kinastr  pan  wnaed  yn  farckog 

Awst  i  Has  fynghastell  i     .     .     .     .  I 

a  merch  iarll  ymreichiav  hwnn 

182  Moliant  harri  dv  o  evas 

He  nit  da  lliw  onit  dv     .     .     .     .  »* 

angel  duw  yngwlad  evas 

183  Marw7iad  gr:  vyclian  ap  gr:  ap  eignon 

duw/  r  /  hen  dug  edwart  vrenin     ....  * 

oes  hir  ir  arglwyddes  honn 

185  Moliant  tre  groesosswallt 

Tyvodd  vn  o  blant  difeth     ....  " 

ni  bo  /  r  /  gwr  heb  avr  ag  yd 


Ktwtbev  AC   Odleu  Sion  Ttdvb. 

186      Dis  ywr  byd  os  arbedwn     ....  m  j    ^ 

ar  ddim  oil  end  ar  dduw  mawr  Sion   Tydvr 

188  bvstl  y  byd:  Agor  nef  wrth  lef  araith  lafar  dyn    .    .    •       2 
knokiwn  ne  gyrwn  efo  a  egorir 

191   Owdl  foliant  i  sion  salbri  o  Rvg 

Sion  eryr  y  gwyr  i  gyd  sion  wrol     ....  •" 

tra  gweler  y  ser  treiglaf  air  sion 


SION  TUDVR.  231 

193  Kyngor  i  syr  Jeuan  lloyd  o  ial 

Erres  iawn  er  yssenyd     ....  a 

draw  yn  vstvs  oedran  nfestor  Sion  Ttidyr 

195  J  S''  John  salusburie  ar  ol  iddo  friwo  y  capten  owen  salbri 

Yr  aer  mawr  ai-  wyr  mavvrion     ....  b 

kydoes  hir  ach  kadwo  sion 
198  Marwnad  sion  salbri  o  Rvg  esgwier 

O  duw  dad  pa  fyd  ydyw     ....  c 

i  gwelom  bawb  i  gilydd 

200  Kywydd  i  huw  pilstwn 

pa  le  sy  benn  plassav  byd     ....  d 

huw  kedwid  duw  /r/  keidwad  hwnn 
202  Pen  oedd  y  prydydd  yn  amkanv  myned  i  dv  ddewi 
foi  cynghorodd  i  farch  iddo  fyned  ir  plas  yng- 
wedir  at  M'  Morys  Wynn  ysgwier 
fyngvvinev  farch  fwng  nwyfvs     ....  e 

yn  kynnal  ar  lann  konwy 

205  K.   dros  sion  wynn  ap  kadwaladr  i  qfyn  gwnn  yw 
gefnder  wmffre  thomas  ofodl  loithon  yn  sir  fflint 

Y  karw  ifank  arafwych     ....  f 
tra  fo  gwnn  wrth  dref  a  gwal 

207  Kywydd  i  ofyn  mortwari  S'  thomas  go'i 

Y  gwr  vrddol  geirwir  ddysg     ....  g 
He  brav  i  fynd  Uwybr  y  fendith 

210  K.  cyngor  i  mastr  comoy  o  fodryddan  tad  8'  J.  conwy 

Mae  son  f'al  Moessen  ne  fwy     ....  h 

trwy  dduw  yn  aer  botryddan  wenn 

213  Moliant  sion  lewis  owen 

y  karw  ifank  arafaidd     ....  i 

a  saith  einioes  ith  wyneb 

Daii  gywydd  ir  gelynen 

214  y  twr  kelyn  trik  galawnt     ....  k 
parch  i  honn  ar  perchenog 

217  kenais  wawd  kannes  i  wydd     ....  / 
na  bo  glyn  heb  gelynen 

218  Olwen  giilael  Ian  galon     ....  m 
darfy  wenn  fwyn  derfyn  foes 

220  Kywydd  i  ddiolch  i  ferch  am  napkyn  ^c. 

y  fvn  weddvs  fain  addwyn     ....  » 

fynuw  r)iawg  ywr  fvn  ai  rhoes 

221  K.  merch  ir  oedd  y  prydydd  yn  i  charv  ag  yna  hithe 

a  garodd  vn  arall  ag  or  achos  honno  fo  Roed  iddo 

lawer  o  ffynn  hyll 
kwrs  ynfyd  kerais  vnferch     ....  o 

kollais  ddyn  Eowiog  callwenn 
kyll  a  gaf  er  colli  gwenn     .... 
kringyll  ag  irgyll  o  goed 
mangyll  a  brasgyll  breisgoed     .... 
ag  yn  iach  bellach  ir  byd 

223  Kowydd  ir  llwyn  gwiail 

J  llwyn  ai  wisg  oil  yn  wyrdd     ....  P 

wythrann  serch  loywferch  Ian 


23.2  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   160. 

224  Kywydd  i  ofyn  Rhys  grythor 

y  bardd  fawndrefn  bwrdd  windraul  ....                     ^ 

Rhys  yngwr  prys  dopp  y  rhod  Wiliam  kynwal 

226  Atteb  :  y  bardd  gwyn  ebrwydd  ganiad  ....                   ft 

i  gyd  i  chof  gida  rhys  Sion  tydvr 


KrwYBEU  AC   Odlev  Wiliam  Ktn. 

228  Jfr  neidir  a  frathodd  y  march  a  Roese  sion  ap  hHw  ir  bardd 

mae  gwr  fyth  am  gowir  farn     ....  c 

i  ffwrn  o  fwg  yfEern  faith  Wiliam  ILyn 

230  Marwnad  sion  ap  huw  ap  ifan  ysgwier  13T0 

y  beirddion  Uei  bv  vrddas     ....  <f 

duw  saf  gidai  enaid  sion 

232  Owdl  foliant  i  Risiart  ap  huw  ap  Jeuan  ysgwier 

llwyddiant  a  ffyniant  trwy  ffydd     ....  e 

ffyniant  a  llwyddiant  wellwell  iddo 

234  Moliant  ir  esgob  huws  llanelwey 

Beth  orav  byth  i  wrawl     ....  f 

kaergaint  a  henaint  yn  honn 

236  Moliant  ^  mab  sion  wynn  ap  meredydd  o  wedir 

Y  llwyd  messur  Ilia  moessen     ....  g 

pa  dras  fwy  pedair  oes  foch 

238  J  ofyn  hymod  m'  Wiliam  gruffydd  o  gaernarvon  esgwiair 

kaernarvon  hen  gofion  gwyr     ....  ■        h 

ain  Haw  genych  ^arll  gwynedd 

240  jf  ofyn  telyn  dras  sion  trevor  i  siainkin  gwynn  o  lanidbes 

J  grymvs  walch  gair  moessen     ....  i 

a  rhwysg  iarll  yt  deiroes  gwr 

242  Marwnad  Elissav  amhorys  or  Menenav  yn  yfionydd  esgwier 

*  y  byd  mewn  trais  heb  wedd     ....  h 

*  *  dir  y  nef  in  meisdir  ni 

244   Y  semi  .•****  enwi  kyfraith  anael     ....  t 

gyrr  senn  itb  gar  o  fionydd 


247  Kywydd  i  huiv  Namiav  esgwier 

y  prenn  a  wnaeth  diiw/ n  /  prynnwr     .... 

ir  tyi-av  a  ro  teiroes  feuan  ap  howel  swrdwall 

249  Kowydd  i  bias  llywelyn  fychan  o  felienydd 
T  DOS  i  kad  mab  rhad  rhwydd  .... 
oes  Noe  yn  i  lys  newvdd  Jeuan  ap  howel  swrdwall 


m 


H 


KyWYBEU  ILOWBEN  - 


250      howel  vnfath  hael  iownfvdd     ....  * 

fab  llywelyn  fwa  llifloew 

howel  par  vm  fytheiaid  Kovidden 

252       Edwart  ai  wyr  ai  drwyr  tan     ....  P 

chwenych  nid  wy  dda  chwaneg 
chwant  tad  ychen  cochion   teg 


LLOWBEN   AND   G.   HIRAETHOG.  233 

253  Kywydd  i  dri  mab  owen  o  lanhrynmair 

Evrwn  gerdd  gidar  vn  gaink     ....  a 

trywlys  rhwng  y  tri  alarch  TLowdden 

255  Kywydd  i  domas  ap  Rosser  ai  dri  maib 

mae  eryr  vm  mawr  i  rodd     ....  h 

gan  gwyl  ag  yno  gwelwyf 

257  Kywydd  i  ofyn  dav  ychen 

Bvm  yn  aredig  brig  bronn     ....  c 

na  fawr  arglwydd  ne  &rwn 

259  Kywydd  i  dd:  niathav  i  erchi  ychen  cochion 

duw  a  Eannodd  drwy  einioes     ....  d 

wyrion  tywyssogion  sydd 

260  Kywydd  i  arglwydd fferis 

Rhyfel  ar  barsel  or  byd     ....  e 

dreth  avr  er  Uywodraeth  dda 

262  Kywydd  i  erchi  gwalch  i  M'  Robert  whitney 

Sion  bromych  sy  /  n  /  bwrw  yma     ....  f 

ni  fynn  nag  ar  fy  neges  , 

263  Kywydd  i  ddiolch  i  Rys  ab  dd:  goch  am  alarchod 

y  ddav  giw  oedd  wyav  gynt  g 

tri  mairch  tros  elairch  y  sydd 

265  Moliant  mredydd  ap  J[euan\  ap  m'edd  o  ystytnkegid 

pa  wrol  Jon  pvr  i  wledd     ....  h 

bavn  gwiw  ym  yn  benn  gwynedd 


266  Gwnn  gur  er  gwenn  i  goroen     .... 

anffawd  i  ddyddbrawd  na  ddaw  Uen  ap  gyttyn 

267  Kywydd  i  ofyn  dwy  special 

mefyrio  bvm  fwrw  /  r  /  byd     ....  , 

ii-  gottel  lie  mae  /  r  /  gytto  „  ,, 

268  Kowydd  o  ddvchan  i  ddeon  bangor  achos  fo  a  ddymynasse 

llevielyn  ar  y  deon  roi  llythr  iddo  i  gael  wyna  ymodeon 
ag  aberdaron.  ynte  a  scrifenodd  at  huw  lewys  am  roi  Uen 
y  ny  cyffion  am  gymhortha  heb  gomissiwn.  ag  felly  a 
ddug  Uen  lythr  yn  i  erbyn  i  hynan  SfC. 

mae  doctor  i  fangor  fain     .... 

o  chevais  fil  gan  wiliam 

y  pin  ar  kyfRn  f y  /  r  /  kam     .... 

ir  kwd  moel  lythyr  cayad  mwy  llewelyn  ap  gyttyn 

Kywybev  Gruffyb  Hiraethawg. 

270  J  ofyn  keiliog  hoed  dros  Rees  vychan  a  gors  y  goed  ddol 
i  Robert  ap  Morys  a  langedwyn  yn  swydd  y  Wavn 
herod  wyf  lioyw  rad  afael     ....  ' 

egni  Hew  roi  kynn  lleied  Gr:  Hiraethog 

272  f  ofyn  sirken  o  groen  moelrhon  i  berson  derwen  dros 
M'  kadwaladr  ap  Robert 
Syr  Rob  art  gair  syr  bwrt  gynt     .... 
yn  gyd  a  hwy  nag  oed  honn 

274  Kywydd  i  ofyn  keiliog  bronfraith 

Vn  duw  gad  hwnn  ni  ad  gam     .... 
a  daed  yw  d&w  ai  diylch 


234 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  160. 


276  Marivnad  y  fronfraith,  ag  i  ddychanv  herwgath  a 
ddaeth  yw  gaets  dg  ai  lladawdd 
Bvm  herod  bo  vrn  hiraeth     ....  a 

a  fo  amen  wrth  fy  modd  G.  Hiraethog 

278  Kywydd  i  ofyn  gwalch 

Pwy  sy  trwyddo  post  rhvddavr     ....  5 

nowpeth  lownwerth  pwyth  laner 

280  Moliant  M'  Rowland  gruffydd  or  plas  newydd 

Bai  ar  fll  ai  brvfio  yw     ....  g 

rhigal  mawr  rhowiowglew  mon 

282  Kywydd  i  ofyn  hwrdd 

yr  ystvs  oil  o  ras  duw  sydd     ....  d 

i  Iwdn  fal  y  dyn  fydd 

284  Marwnad  i  Wmffrey  ap  howell  ap  Jenkin  0  ynys  y 
maengwyn  15if5 
Son  o  fod  sy  yii  i  fedd     ....  e 

tros  wr  tv  tryssor  towynn 


286   Yr  eira  :  heiniar  adfydig  hvnwyf 
devddya  ni  bwy  hyn  na  hwy 

288   Owdl  ir  gwr  o  fachelldref 

Cyrchais  ar  frys  wennllys  wiw     .     . 
llwyddvab  cadwaladr  clod  baladr  clav 

290  Kywydd  y  knav  im  Haw 

da  yw  nghof  am  lyfr  ofydd     .     .     . 
er  noblen  kneven  or  knav 


ite'n  goch  amheirig  hen 


feu:  ap  Rki  ap  J.  llwyd 


291  Kywydd  ir  mab  dyrogan 
kefais  er  na  fedrais  fydr 
a  chwnkwest  hors  hensiest  hen 

293       Mair  yw  /  n  /  hyder  rhag  perigl 
a  budd  yr  hell  ddynion  byw 


KrWTBEU  JOLO   GocB: 

296  Kywydd  y  knav  im  Haw 

y  ferch  a  wisg  yn  sientli     .... 
nag  a  syref  neges  afraid 

297  Marwnad  llewelyn  goch  amheirig  hen 

O  dduw  teg  ai  ddaed  dyn     .... 
prydydd  ymhorth  pyradwys 

299  S'  R.  Mortmer :  Syi'  Koser  assvr  aesawr     . 
ti  a  leddy  clochdy  clod 
bobl  wlster  bob  ail  ystod 

303  yr  aradr :  pan  ddangosson  ffynon  ffydd     .     . 

Haw  fair  dros  bob  UafArwr 

304  duw  greawdr  nef  a  dayar    .... 
duw  gwyn  ath  law  dwg  ni  ith  wledd 

306  hyffes :  krair  kred  ked  kynydd     .... 
dyro  vm  gyfraniad  /  oth  wlad  ath  wledd 

310  Edwart  in. :  Edwart  ab  edwart  gwart  gwyr 
yno  i  doi  yn  y  diwedd 


Jolo  Goch 


JOLO  GOCB  AJJD  H.  BEINALLT.  235 

312  Marwnad  tydvr  ap  gronwy  ap  tydvr  ap  gronwy  vn  o 

hynaif  yn  penllowydd 
klowais  ddoe  im  klvst  ddeav     ....  a 

na  hever  mwy  ynhir  Mon  jfolo  Goch 

313  Ymddiddan  rhwng  yr  enaid  ar  corff' 

Ymddiddan  bwhwman  hwyr     ....  i 

tir  fflyr  er  rhoi  tair  filoring 

316  Jr  tafod :  Y  drvan  fawd  lydan  ledr     ....  c 

gael  twyll  myun   golevad  duw 

317  Jrfarf:  doe  /r/  prud  hwnn  ir  oeddwn  i     .     .     .     .  d 

ymgarv  mi  ag  evron 

319  Kywydd  i  syr  howel  y  fwyall 

A  welai  neb  a  welaf    ....  e 

u  chadw/  r  /  gaer  iechyd  ir  gwr 

321  fr  llong  :  Anawdd  vm  Roi  hawddamawr     ....  / 

bettwn  i  mynwn  fyinod 

322  Rho  duw  mawr  y  march  blawr  blwng     .     .     ,     ■  g 
poed  gwir  bowyd  hir  i  hwnn 

325  Kywydd  i  feibion  tydvr  ap  gronwy  o  fori 

Myned  i  rwy  i  dir  mon  draw     ....  A 

tariaf  i  fon  tra  f  wy  fyw 

326  J  owain  glynn  dwr  wedi  fyned  ar  ddifancoll  a  than  lech, 

llei  dengys  y  prydydd  bart  o  fanerav  hwnn  a  ddisgwil- 
iair  beirdd  i  Ruddhay  hymbry  o  gaethiwed  harri  iv. 

Y  gwr  hir  nith  gar  harri     ....  i 

dwg  ni  on  rhwym  dygn  yn  rhydd 

328  Kywydd  i  owain  ap  gryjff-ydd  vychan  ai  lys  a  hynn  oedd  kynn 
rhyvel  owen,  a  nodafod  Jolo  yn  hen  yr  amser  hwnw 
Addewais  yt  hynn  ddwywaith     ....  k 

a  ffle/r/  llys  hofE  ywr  He 

Kywyddeu  i  owen  glynndwr 
331      Myfurio  i  bym  farwn     ....  / 

ag  vnllaw  yw  am  gynllaith 

333  llyma  fyd  rhag  sythfryd  sais     ....  m 
pe  mwy  i  swydd  pvm  oes  iddo 

334  Prydv  a  wna  mwy  mawl  n 
i  beder  ddoeth  wybodawl     .... 

nef  a  tlirigaredd  i  ni 

337  J  vair  :  doeth  dduwies  etholes  iesv     ....  o 

a  theilwng  o  beth  ith  etholes 

339      Ai'chwu'  i  fair  a  bair  byd     ....  p 

kawn  nef  oil  kanv  i  fair 


KrwrBEu  Howel  Reinallt. 

340      Y  Rhiain  wych  ai  rhoi  /  n  /  wenn     ....  9' 

na  bych  heb  a,  gerych  gwenn  Howel  Reinallt 

Z4^\JS^wydd\i,.ofyn  tmlgi  du  kydenog  gan  iten  amhorgan 

Uywelyn,  fal  lliw  alaroh     ....  *" 

am  llowrodd  im  Haw  arall 


236  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   160. 

343  Kywydd  i  erchi  main  meline 

Vchel  mab  fadog  vychan     .... 

kaer  dro  a  chymro  /  n  /  i  chael  Howel  Reinallt 

345  Mar;  ho:  ap  Jenkin  ap  Jerp  ap  eign  o  dowyn  meirionydd 

hawdJamawr  ywch  Uawr  y  llynn     .... 

i  gadw  /  r  /  tai  a  gwydr  towyn 


346  Marwnnd  plant  y  bardd 

Wrth  edrych  galarnych  gael     ....  c 

o  natur  fynwyn  attyn  Gwilym  ap  Sefnyn 

.348   Ymweled  a  gwilym  ap  gr:  o  ben  mynydd 

Eho  duw  galon  ddigUonbwyll     ....  ^ 

wrth  fyngwawr  duw  mawr  amen.  „  ,j 


Ktwybeu  Howel  Davys  ap  Jeuan  ap  Rys. 

350  Moliant  Owain  dwnn 

Y  gleissiad  mwnwgl  assvr     ....  e 

gael  duw  a  gweled  owain  Howel  Dd:  ap  Jeuan 

352  Kywydd  i  erchi  gossawg 

llariaidd  farwnaidd  frynach     ....  f 

yfudd  yt  wyf  a  fydd  tav 

354  Moliant  gryffudd  ap  nikolas 

Wrth  ddechrav   am  swyddav  son     ....  a 

arwydd  y  don  o  wraidd  da 

355  Kywydd  i  Anna  fam  fair 

Anna  a  wnaeth  i  nyni     ....  h 

in  eneidiav  /  u  /  enwedig 

357  K.  i  hen  iarll  penfro  afy  yn  rhoi  sits  wrth  gastell  harlegh 

Os  byrr  oed  dydd  os  brud  hen     ....  i 

ef  a  ar  llafn  fy  iarll  hefyd 

359  Kywydd  Syr  Roger  vychan 

Mae  perllau  ymorganwg     ....  k 

kair  fforest  or  kyff'  evraid 

361  y  dyn  vn  lliw  ewyn  Uif    ....  I 
y  ddwy  wlad  y  ddav  olwg 

362  /  vair  :  Gwr  wyf  nid  rhaid  gwarafun     ....  m 

gydoes  a  hi  gida  saint 


Kywydev'ac  Odlev  Tydvr  Penllyn. 

364  Kywydd  i  if  an  ap  gr:  ap  Jenkin  o  Iwydiarth 

klefyd  ymrig  gwyl  Jevau     ....  w 

kann  nydolig  kynn  delor  Tydur  Penllyn 

365  Owdl  farwnad  Mallt  ve}  bowel  selav 

farglwyddes  feistres  oedd  fyw     ....  o 

a  chel  a  weles  ychel  wiliav 

368  Kywydd  i  ofyn  tarw 

Tri  annerch  atad  Rheinallt     ...  P 

eryr  y  twr  er  y  tarw 

369  Kywydd  i  ofyn  kymod  ifredydd  ap  it  en  a  enav  j  r  j  glynn 

Torres  dydd  fel  dyn  trist  dall      ....  ? 

a  maddevaint  am  ddwy  wyl 


TYDUR  PENLLYN  AND    DEIO   AP    lEUAN    DTJ.  237' 

371  Kywydd  i  Rys  ap  m'edd  o  hiraethog 

Y  tv  ni  ffv  o  ddiar  y  fEordd     ....  a 
Iwyr  fo  rhwng  lowri  a  rhjs                           TudUr  Penllyn 

372  Kywydd  i  Watkyn  vychan  o  hergest 

J  nai  /  r  /  f  aril  ir  wy  /  n  /  darllain     ....  b 

kann  haf  i  watkin  hefyd 

373  Moliant  dd:  ap  Jenkin  ap  dd:  crach 

kannos  dayd  kynnes  dadail     ....  c 

■wyth  goed  a  duw  atli  geidw  di 
375  Owdl  i  Reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  ar  ol  lladva  gwyr  kaer 

Wyr  eiuion  ai  ffona  ffinied  y  saysson     ....  d 

efo  delw  fyw  dialed 

377  Moliant  eliza  a  gr:  vychan  meib  gr:  ap  eignon 

Y  ddav  lew  o  wyddelwern     ,     .     .     .  e 
dyro  yddyn  bedeiroes 

378  Kywydd  i  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  eignon  a  wnaed  pan 

aeth  jfarll  penjro  ir  dwr  yn  y  bermo 

Y  karw  ifank  a  evrir     ....  / 
oni  ddel  owain  ddylwyd 

380  Marwnad  tri  o  veihion  dd:  llwyd  ap  syr  gr:  vychan 

Uwyn  gwenwys  perllan  gwinwydd     ....  g 

tros  y  til-  teiroes  yw  tad 

381  Grruffydd  beisrydd  bowysrann     ....  h 
a  gwin  yn  nannav  a  gaf 


383  Y  ddyn  winvaeth  vnionvawr     ....  » 
nad  fanwyl  newid  feinioes                          Jeuan  ap  gronwy 

Ktwyseu  AC  Odleu  Dew  ap  Jeuan  dv: 

384  Marwnad  gwilym  vychan  o  frycheiniog 

Och  dduw  nad  yttebyeh  ddim     ....  h 

nach  gweled  yn  iach  gwilim  Deio  ap  Jeuan  dv 

386  K.  kymod  rhwng  gr:  vychan  a  Rhys  arglwydd  y  towyn 

damwain  blin  ywr  byd  yma     ....  I 

ai  rhoi  ar  iai-ll  penfro  i  rwyf 

388  Moliant  sion  ab  Rhys  o  lynn  nedd  am  darw  coch 

Ewch  feirdd  o  ddimbych  i  fon     ....  m 

lloi  gant  vn  lliw  ag  yntav 

390  J  fredydd  ap  IVn  o  ener  glynn  nol  diank  rhag  boddi  yn  nyvi 

Myredydd  Uowydd  y  llynn     ....  n 

ar  dy  gorff  a  Roe  duw  gwynn 

392  Owdl  i  feredydd  ap  llywelyn 

Me'redydd  ddevrudd  aron     ....  o 

af  ar  owdl  i  feredydd 

393  Marwnad  lewys  ap  Rees*  o  lanwrin 

doeth  tri  arwydd  vn  flwyddyn     ....  p 

lewys  yn  wr  o  lys  nef 


*  Corrected  in  mafgiu  (in  a  xviith  century  hand)  into  lewys  ap  "  meredith  ap 
Jeuan  vychan." 


23S  MOSTTN  THANUSCEIPT  160. 

KrwrsEU  Meredts  ap  Mrs. 

395  7  Angav :  Ebnvydd  i  doeth  a  braidd  dal     .     .     .     .  g 

drigaredd  a  diwedd  da  Mredydd  ap  Rys 

396  kerais  wenn  kares  hinon     ....  5 
merch  yn  rhad  a  meirch  ja  rhydd 

397  Tydi  /  r  /  gwynt  tad  eira  ag  od     .     .     .     .  g 
a  chan  owdl  o  ychneidiav 

399       Yma  yr  ys  yn  ymrysson     ....  ^ 

trecha  a  gais  fantais  ferr 
a  hwnn  a  geidw  /  r  /  banner     .... 
fy  naf  a  Roddo  nef  ynn 


Kywysev  by  Syr  Davyb  Trevor. 

400  Anwadalwch  a  thwyll  y  byd 

Pand  angall  na  dyallwn     ....  ^ 

ar  Haw  honn  ir  llawenydd  Syr  Dd:  Trevor 

402  y  ddyn  sanctaidd  a  anwyd     ....  t 
yn  vn  dyn  dwg  nine  /  n  /  dav 

403  Kowydd   i  Syr  wiliam  gr:  or  penrhyn  i  ofyn  iddo 

vn  oi  gariadav  a  thelyn 
karv  merched  am  kvriai     ....  o 

ni  ddawr  fyth  na  ddeve  /  r  /  ddyn 


Kywydev  AC  Odleu  Lewys  Glynn  Cotbi. 

405   Owdl  i  sion  ap  Rhys  o  lynn  nedd 

Bonedd  dwy  lann  nedd  del  yn  wynn     ....  h 

nawdd  yr  angylion  ar  nonn  glyn  nedd       Lewys  G.  Cothi 

407  Moliant  henri  ap  gwilym 

^essv  gwynn  i  wisgo  art     ....  i 

mae  /  n  /  twy  /  n  /  waeth  mae  yntav  /  n  /  well 

408  Moliant  i  ryffydd  derwas 

mi  af  i  yfed  y  medd     ....  k 

a  duw  ni  wnaeth  dynion  well 

410  Mar:  thoinas  ap  Rosser  arg:  hergast  a  las  yn  y  maes  ymanbri 

Y  maes  grymvssa  o  gred     ....  I 

a  duw  eilwaith  ai  dialo 

411  Owdl  i  M' Robert  whitnai 

0  dduw  pwy  ynglan  gwy  a  gai  /  r  /  yrabedd    .    ,     .    .    m 
kroes  duw  gwynn  kroessed  y  gwyr 

416   Owdl  i  ddavydd  ap  John  ap  dd:  ap  hwlkyn 

Davydd  ab  sion  Rydd  o  wreiddyn     ....  n 

ef  yw  dewi  sant  o  fawd  a  sion 

416   Oivdl  i  lewys  ap  gwilym  0  frynn  havod 

Pa  dv  o  gymrv  a  ddwg  vra  /  lawer     ....  0 

ag  nid  el  led  gwavn  oi  duy 

418   Owdl  foliant  i  henri  ap  gwilym 

Ai  kymro  /  n  /  gwreiddio  o  fewn  grym  /     .  .     .  p 

henri  ai  dylv  ar  gymrv  i  gid 


CEWYS  GLYNN  COTHI.  239 

419  Owdl  farwnad  i  domas  vychan  o  gyredigion 

Marchog  tir  gwenog  gwae  ddyn  gwan     ....  a 

'     ar  fro  /  n  /  i  gwyno  a  fflwyf  gwenog  L.  G.  Cothi 

421  Owdl  foliant  i  Jf  mab  phylpot  ap  Rhys 

Pedwar  gwreiddyn  dar  dyrys  i  gynon     ...  b 

o  bedwar  imp  dar  erys 

422  Owdl  i  ddiolch  am  baderav 

Adeiniog  o  fardd  adwaenya  /  wyf     ....  c 

nag  a  Eoed  o  droed  i  oradain 

423  Owdl  foliant  i  feuan  ap  iten  vychan  0  blwyf  nant  melan        ' 

lewys  eginyn  ydyw  ]feuan  wych     ....  d 

aed  oes  ag  einioes  ir  eginyn 

425  Owdl  foliant  i  vn  o  dylwyth  y  torddvaid 

^evan  a  ffylib  dan  ior  ymrwydr  e 

meredydd  ag  ifor     .... 
da  a  dv  ydwyd  Jevan 

427  pwy  yw  gwraidd  maesyfaidd  pwy  sydd  /  yn  hael  f 

hil  elystan  glodrydd 
howel  fab  ynyr  rhol  fydd     .... 
ag  yn  y  gwraidd  egin  gras 

428  Owdl  foliant  i  sion  ap  Jeuan  ap  iten  o  gryg  eryr 

Bo :  n  :  llyr  krug  eryr  iddaw  goron  /  loegr     ....         g 
ar  y  gwr  gorav  o  grug  eryr 

429  Owdl  farwnad  i  Rys  ap  davydd  o  felienydd 

Val  enaid  a  cliorfE  i  feilienydd  /  Eym     ....  h 

a  duw  a  Ranno  da  ir  enaid 

431   Owdlfol:  dd:  ab  gwilym  llwyd  o  Gastell  Howel 

dragowydd  davydd  mwsgedel  a  brynn     ...  i 

na  tbrwy  y  gayaf  na  thragowydd 

433  Marwnad  morgan  davydd  gam  o  lann  faes 

Y  pennaeth  ym  hob  bonedd     ....  k 

ywr  barwn  doeth  garbron  duw 

434  Kywydd  irfflint  ag  ir  pibav 

doethvm  dduwsul  diwaetha     ....  I 

iddi  eilwaith  nadelwy 

435  Owdl  foliant  i  Arglwydd  herbart 

dart  arglwydd  hei'bart  baham  /  na  thorres     ....  in 

vn  elo  /  r  /  kinge  edwart  yw  herbart  hen 

438  Marwnad  gwladvs  verch  Syr  davydd  gam 

y  seren  o  efenni     ....  n 

i  dewiswn  dewysawg 

440  Moliant  watkin  vychan  o  hergest 

Mair  a  Eoes  nef  ymrhessen     ....  o 

Jarll  hir  fo  /  r  /  Hew  o  herast 

441  hawddamawr  heb  vnawr  wast  p 
ir  tir  Jlr  tai  o  herast     .... 

i  lew  herast  el  hir  oed 

443      Breiniol  wyd  or  barwnwaed  9 

barwn  ystepltwn  nos  daed 
,  , .    r ,  d^yydd  goch  duw  sydd  o  gylch     .... 

a  ifarll  hen  fych  o  wr  llwyd 


240  MOSTYN  MANUSCEIPT  160. 

445  Owdl  i  Wm:  ap  Morgan  ap  dd:  ap  gwilym 

Gw'iliam  ap  Morgan  Hew  gwaywlym  /  difalch     ....    a 
ai  gaerav  murgalch  rhygarw  Morgant  L.  G.  Cothi 

446  Owdl  i  drahayarn  ap  Jeuan  ap  Meirig 

davr  vm  tryhayarn  fyth  a  drig  /  im  by w     ....  J 

er  dy  voli  ym,  wyr  Ririd  flaidd 

448  Marwnad  Risiart  vychan  arglwydd  hleddvach 

Pregeth  i  Elen  gethin     ....  c 

ir  gwr  ai  vab  fo  mab  mair 

449  Marwnad  i  syr gr:  vychan  marchog  vrddol,hynaf  y 

llwydiaid  o  gylch  y  trallwng 
drwg  ^awn  fydd  pob  anobaith     ....  <; 

bid  ddyn  os  y  byd  a  ddaw 

451  Kywydd  a  ganodd  y  prydydd  a  ddoethe  i  geisio  clera 
a  hod  heh  gael  dim 
Gwr  da  gwych  Uewych  llawir     ....  « 

heiniwr  drwg  i  gyflwr  gynt 


KrwTBEv  Jerwertb  Vtnglwtd. 

J  Rys  ap  sion  o  lyn  nedd 
452       Bardd  ydwyf  ya  brevddwydiaw     ....  f 

dy  droi  Rys  or  didro  i  rwyd  Jerwerth  Vynglwyd 

454  pa  ryw  davod  pvr  difai     ....  g 
top  ag  oil  ti  pie  i  gyd 

455  Moliant  M'  tomas  gatnais 

Pwy  /  n  /  kynnal  pennav  kanyn     ....  h 

penn  o  by  benn  ar  bawb  wyd 

457  Kywydd  diolch  ir  abad  dd:  am  yrrv  gwin  ir  prydydd 
penn  oedd  ef  yn  gla 
y  Hen  addfwyn  Uonyddfawr     ....  i 

mair  a  gai  /  m  /  mlaen  margam  Iwyd     .... 
nar  byd  heb  yr  abad  hwnn 


Kywtbev  Lewis  Mon. 

458   Mar:  Jeuan  ap  tten  [op]  dd:  goch  o  drefeilir  yn  sir  von 

Trewis  oerfel  tros  arfon     ....  k 

or  tv  de  ir  tad  ^evan  Lewis  Mon 

460  Kywydd  i  ofyn  kymod  sion  pilstwn  hen 

hen  ddelw  honn  addolynt     ....  ^ 

pe  palle  ynrhaed  pob  He  /  n  /  rhydd 

462  Moliant  edwart  herbert  o  drefaldwyn 

Gwent  yw  /dJ  gwbl  gnot  yn  gobaith    ....  « 

ir  a  elw  teg  ir  wlad  honn* 

465  Marwnad  i  Rys  llwyd  or  gydros 

Trees  niwl  tros  hen  aelwyd     ....  » 

glaw  avr  yn  golevo  /  r  /  nef 

*  Some  lines,  which  have  been  "  crossed  out  "  at  the  end  of  this  poem,  belong  to 
that  on  page  469. 


MOST^N  MANUSCRIPT   160.  241 

466  Mohant  Wtliam    ?  ah  gryffydd 

Mae  Haw  vn  am  hoU  wynedd     ....  a 

ni  chewch  well  iia  chwchwillan  Lewis  3Iou 

467  Marwnad  yr  arglwydde-t  siati  [stradling~\  o  bias  penrhyn 

Uawen  fyth  ui  allvvu  fod     ....  /» 

bid  tydd  farn  boed  heddyw  fo 

469  Moliant  Syr  Rys  ap  thomas 

Nos  da  ir  fran  is  dofr  enyd     ....  e 

watt  etto  bydd  hyd  dydd  barn 

471  Mol:  Rys  ap  dd:  lloyd  ap  dd:  ap  Ryi,  hyna  S''  Rich:  price 

lie  bo  Ros  felly  bo  Raid     ....  d 

hyd  y  dvr  hwde  daraw 

472  Marwnad  arglwydd  poioys 

Gwae  wlad  oev  gwilio  derwen     ....  e 

!law  dduw  yngod  lladd  angav 

474  Marwtiad  tydvr  aled 

dyn  ymddifad  heb  dad  wyf     ....  / 

ag  yn  llann  faes  gwinllan  fydd 
i  trig  awen  tragywydd 

476  Marwnad  Elissay  ap  gr:  ap  eignon  1^89 

Bit  rywan  boetri  ennyd     ....  g 

J  penna  oedd  fo  penn  oedd  fyw 

478  Moliant  M''  Robart  ab  Rys  tad  doctor  elis 

Pwy  yu  y  gwin  penn  i  ganed     ....  A 

iachav  ymhob  hawl  chwi  /  m  /  hob  peth 

480  Kywydd  i  vn  or  herbardiaid 

pie  stil  powys  dalaith     .....  » 

torri  clyst  y  twrk  oi  law 


482  Kywydd  dtiwiol  yn  erbyn  y  hyd  y  cnawd  ar  cythrel 

Gwnn  nad  da  gwae  enaid  dyn     ....  A 

a  bodd  duw  yn  y  bedd  diwedd  davydd  meifod 


Kywybeu  Davyb  JLwyd  ap  Kewelyn  ap  Grvffyb. 

485  Kywydd  i  ddavyd  ap  Jetian  ap  eignon 

y  gwilliad  a  gaid  fal  gwynt     ....  I 

gwendid  biav  /  r/  byd  ar  bel       Dd:  JLwyd  ap  lUn  ap  gr: 

486  Y  vantell :  teyrn  ymysg  trin  a  mael     ....  "* 

a  chyredd  swydd  ni  chwardd  sais 

488  Marwnad  syr  gruffydd  vychan  marchog  vrddol 

Am  y  gwr  mwya  a  gerais     ....  '* 

a  fu  feirw  /  n  /  rhaid  feryr 

490  Kywydd  i  ddiolch  am  gledde  i  tcatkin  fychan  0  hergest 

kleddav  gwnae  assav  /  n  /  yssig     ....  " 

gwrdd  oedd  trigaredd  iddaw 

491  Kywydd  i  erchi  pais  i  watkin  fychan  o  hergest 

Y  gwr  dilesg  ar  dalwrn     ....  P 

vn  deigr  or  dwr  bendigaid 
493      dyvi  wendal  dwf  indeg     ....  ^ 

a  bedw  irion  bedeir  oes 
e    87130.  <i 


242  MOSTYN  MAKUSCRIPT   160. 

494  Kt/wydd  i  arglwydd  fferis 

y  karw  vrddol  kowirddoetli     ....  a 

bid  arglwydd  mewn  bcdw  irglos     Dd:  HA:  ap  lUn  ap  Gr: 

496  Kywydd  dychan  i  sion  davi  am  geisio  elJirod  rkwng 
dd:  llwyd  ar  brenhin 
Syrthiodd  a  gwjvodd  i  gym     ....  b 

a  ]law  foel  kais  felly  fyw 

498  y  harri  vir.  wedi  enill  y  dernas,  ne  i  arthur  i  fab  pan  aned 

Arthur  benadur  ydoedd     ....  c 

a  Haw  grist  rhag  kwn  lloegr  oil 

500  Kywydd  i  dydecho  a  llaiuer  o  wrthiav  yntho 

Mae  gwr  llwyd  yroa  garllaw     ....  d 

i  dYchan  at  dydecho 

502  Marwnad  davydd  llwyd  ap  S''  gruffydd  vycJian  a 
foddodd  icrth  neidio  or  Hong  i  dir 
Trwm  fy  /  r  /  kodded  ar  tremig     ....  e 

ar  i  ol  ef  f od  llai  /  r  /  wylaw 

604       Gwae  a  fwriodd  gof  oerwas  ■/ 

bmd  ar  y  byd  biadwr  bas     .... 
ith  weled  duw  itli  wlad  di 

506   Y  korff  ar  enaid :  Brvd  y  koi-ff  ir  brawd  kv    .     .    .    .       g 
ne  I  r  I  gleissiad  yn  wr  glaswynn 


507  Kywydd  ir  bad  pen  aetli  y  prydydd  i  brindotta  ti  ag 
enlli,  lie  bv  agos  iddo  a  boddi 
Aethotn  i  fad  dduw  sadwrn     ....  h 

pettei  /  r  /  byd  poed  hir  i  bo  Jetian  ap  tydvr  penllyn 

Marwnadeu  howel  ab  sienlnn 
510       hawddamawr  ywcli  llawr  y  llyn     ....  « 

i  gadw  /  r  /  tai  a  gvvydr  towyn  howel  Beinallt 

512       Ihvyu  oedd  vm  mewn  He  ne  ddav  &c.  (11, 1-8,  see  p.  112).      A 

b.  Mae  ko-jvydd  barnad  i  wmffre  ap  howel  ap  sienkyn  ymysg  kywjdde  gryftydd 
hiraethog  {see  p.  284). 

c.  Y  dafulan  or  koioyddav  sydd  rjn  y  Ihjfr  hwnn.  This  table  of  contents  shows 
that  this  MS.  is  complete. 

526-32  Araith  wgan  :  Yn  yr  hen  amser  gynt,  dav  wr  oedd  yu 
meddiany  dwy  dalaith,  davydd  ap  owain  gwynedd  ynhalaith  aberfEro 
ymon  a  hwnn  oedd  dywyssog  gwynedd  a  rhys  ap  tewdwr  inawi'  yn 
lialaith  dinefwr  ....  ends  :  yea  i  galwyd  penn  bonedd  gwynedd,  a 
ffenn  [ha]elioni  ymorganwg,  a  ffenn  gwybodav  [ymjhowys,  a  ffenn 
perchen  tyaeth  yn  neheybarth  [ac  fejlly  i  terfyna  araith  wgan  wawd. 


MS.  161.  Cywtbeh  AC  Odle0  from  the  Gloddaeth  Library. 
Paper ;  1  If  x  7^  inches  ;  998  pages ;  strongly  bound  in  wliite  vellum. 
This  MS.,  which  is  a  composite  one,  is  divided  into  four  books.  The 
first  book  covers  pages  1-434;  the  second  pp.  435-512;  the  third 
pp.  514-942  ;  and  the  fourth  pp.  943-98.  These  divisions  however  are 
.somewhat  artificial,  as  the  same  hand  is  found  in  books  ii.-iv.,  but  not 
one  of  these  three  is  all  in  the  same  hand.     The  year  1558  (p.  387) 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   IGl.  243 

seems  to  mark  the  earliest  date,  and  pp.  57-432  appear  to  liavo  been 
written  before  1563  (p.  341).  The  remainder  of  the  MS.  belongs  to  the 
middle  of  the  xviith  century.  Parts  of  the  first  book  are  stained  and 
injured  by  damp,  and  occasionally  the  tuxt  is  slightly  defective  at  the 
corners. 

On  page  145  is  the  entry :  "  sexto  die  septembris  W.  ap  hughe  lewys 
me  possidet  Aiio  d'ne  1 590  .  my  age  is  eight  and  twentie  diwgyl  y  groig 
iiesa";  see  also  pages  144,  171;  page  111  has  "The:  Salisb";  and 
page  173  has  "  Hugh  Winne  is  the  true  owner  of  this  book  &c.  1647." 

1       Och  falais  och  drai.s  och  drin  och  gofio  &e.  a 

Pages  2-56,  433,  483-511,  516-28,  699,  705-42,  780-942  are  blank. 

57  Moliant  sr:  Wiliam  gr:  or  penrhyn 

[Pwy  n  i  gwlad  penaig  y  wledd]     ....  b 

IIGweitbred  ydynyfed  a  wnel  Q..  ii)     .     .     .     . 

tir  brenliin  teirbro  wyuedd  Gyttor  glyn 

59      Dyw  kreawdyr  t\°sL  a  dayar     ....  c 

dyw  gwyn  ath  law  dwg  ni  ith  wledd        Mredydd  ap  rys 

61  Diolch  am  roi  tarw 

ewch  feirdd  o  ddinbych  i  fon     .     .     .     .  d 

Hoi  gant  vn  lliw  ag  yntav  deio  ap  jeuan  dv 

64  Moliant  Rydderch  ap  Rys 

Jach  vychan  hyd  vorgannwg     ....  e 

iliwydd  dillad  lloi  ivainck  Rjs  Naamor 

Mol:  gioilim  ap  gr:  or  Penryn,  simnbyrlen  gwynedd 
67      mynvdd  yr  hayl  mayn  ddv  rawc     ....  / 

onid  vn  a  dav  wyneb  lewys  man 

71       Ro  dyn  benryn  freisklyn  frys     ....  g 

a  geidw  frenhinawl  gadair  gwilim  ap  ssefnyn 

74  Kywydd  i  ^  mab  Res  ap  hoel 

May  brie  o  bendevic  dv     .     .     .     .  7i 

peder  hayl  ar  y  pedwar  hynn       Hoell  gethyn  o  gylynnoc 

76  Kywydd  i  Rys  ap  Hoell  ap  Madog 

Tvionydd  a  vv  ennyd     ....  % 

yma  i  vrawd  a  ne  i  Rys  Res  Pennard 

7D  Kywydd  i  Hoell  ap  madog  ap  Jeuan  ap  eignon 

Y  gwr  ir  a  gwarr  arrian     ....  k 

trwy  eigion  byd  trie  yn  beun  Jncho  brydedd 

82  Kywydd  i  Jeuan  ap  eigwon 

Pwy  ssy  o  Eym  passio  r  iaith     ....  I 

saf  ith  gain  ssy  fy w  ath  gar  Jolo  goch 

85  Kywydd  i  Jvan  vab  ehiiawn  vab  gruffydd 

Jvan  ddewr  o  viawn  i  ddawn     ....  m 

yn  gydernyd  yw  byd  byth  Jeuan  wayd  da 

88  Kywydd  i  syr  howel  mab  gruffydd 

A  welai  neb  a  welaf    ....  "• 

acbadwr  gaer  iechyd  ir  gwr  Jolo  goch 

92  Y  dee  gorchymyn 

Na  ch^mer  vn  11  vn  yn  lie     ...     .  *> 

na  dim  a  veddo  nai  dir 

93  Y  rwyddion  ofon  i  fionydd,  &c.    See  ^.Hiteloio.  P 

Q  2 


244  mosTyn  ■MANUsciaiPT'  161. 

94   Y  paihr,  ijr  avi  marla,  y  gredo    ''  ''  '  '"  "■  ■      ■■  ■■  !■ 

Nevol  dad,  llawn  RaJ,  llovvia'yn  rH  V    U)  V    .'  ■  a 

''       ir  enaid  kowir  yna  ,'  .    • ' 

98  Y gredo:  Kredv  irwjf  beiiriaf /  ir  tad  gorvchaf'   .     .•  .  '  .    '6 
,  ,_      bowyd  o  newydd  /  Annivveddar  ' 

99  3Iarwnad  Rys  ap  Tudvr  ap  gronw 

I         Tebic  yw  gwynedd  meddir.  .     ,     ,  ;  .  e 

,    !     ! evif awl  ior  wra  fal  ef       , ;  g^yffydd  gnjc 

,101        doy  y  bryttwn  yr,08dd.w?i,i,i  .,    .     .,    '  ,  .,  d 

ymgarv  mi  ac  evron  lies  go} 

105       gwn  flinfyd  gan  fileinfercli  ....  e 

onichau  yn  iach  vnwaith  Hoivel  ap  dd:  ap  y  gef 

107       fal  i  royddwn  fawl  rwyddaf     ...'.'  f 

ag  anerch  dy  hvn  genyd.  ,  Dd:  ap guilim 

110       My  fi  sydd  devnvdd  dig     ....  « 

i  bydda  o  gwybyddir  '  „  ^^ 

112       fal  yroyddwn  gwyddwn  gel     ....  k 

ith  nawdd  a  dyw  ith  noddi  „  •         „(' 

114  Kywydd  i  karri  ac  owain  yngharcliar  lidrddlech, 

dydd  ar  faes  diwedd  oer  fv     .     .     .     .     '  i 

ax  graic  fawr  yn  for  groec  fo  gwilim  ap  Jeuan  hen 

117   Moliant  am  roi  baslart  ' 

llywelyu  ervr  gwyr  gwych  ...  k 

achos  fy  llawenychv  folo  goch 

121  Kowydd  i  ofyn  march,  i  JthM  ap  Robert 

Eo  dyw  mawr  y  march  blawf  blwtag'  V  '■.  ".'  -v  ■  •  I 

boyd  gwir  bowyd  hir  i  h^sfii!  i   ,.  ,  ,.    i    ,,;    ,,i;      ^ 

124  Marivnad  fthel  ap  Robert  ■'',  ;     i:  ,!.,■■  ■ 

Eres  y  tores  terra     ....  .     ,      m 

nog  itbel  wr  vchel  i  ach  '  .   ,  r  '*v)      >> ' 

129  V    tydi  amner  tew  dwymnyth  i  .     .     .     ,     ;    ,;   (.,',,,  n 

J  graig  rag  ofon  dy  grogi  llywelyn  moel  pantri 

Kyicydteu  Moliant  syr  Win:  Hei-bart  o  Raglan 
131       mawr  ywr  dysc  yuo  mayr  da     ...     .  o 

i  feni  i  raf  inav  gytior  glyn 

134       Ryfedd  ydiw  arfeddfyd"       ...      .'>.         '  ■  > '•' v»V  ■'     ■   '    p 

ni  fvdaf  o  ne  fydol  Howel  g'p  dd:  apfeu:  ap  Rys 

137  fferch:  gway  evrfab  gwiw  i  arfaytli     .     .     :     .  q 

roed  tyw  ir  gweddwon  rad  teg        gf:  lid:  ap  dd:  ap  ein: 

140       P  driffetli  i  pregethir     .     .     .     .     '         '        ,  r 

ag  ifank  wy  dra  fwy  tyw        gr:  llwi/d  ap  dd:  dp  einnion 

,   143  J  ddiolch  am  ffon  ilisa  ap  Rob:  wyn    See  p.  93  above.' 

yrwyddion  ofon  i  nonydd  wiwlwys     .     .     .,   .      ;  « 

odd  ddayuteth  iddo  yntay  Ryccartap  Vtydderch 

144  Atteb  :  Arwyddlon  i  fon  a  fynen  hel  **       .    .'    '.   ,.  t 

ysgawen  ne  werneh    #*  '        Itsaap  R,Obert  wyn 

b.   Tri  Englyn  marwnad  Rys  goch  or  yri 

y  raaen  ddarn  kadarn  lie  kedwi     •    '•    i     •       "!  " 

brig  a  bon  koel  eigibu  kmtd   :       iSp3  Jfitiam  llyn 

145  Klowais  doe  im  klvst  deav    .     .  r    fJCad'  ap  gr:w  v 
gwr  gwen  gidam  gwraig  i                    1;       Risdo  Airdrtm 


MOSTYN:  MANUSCRICT,  161, 


245 


hOwelttp  reinallt 


Leu:  is 


147  Moliant  Jfan  ap  Robert  , 

y  twr  o,  robert  eryr     .     .     .     .  : 
ar  arf  wen  evror  fonvves  i  i 

148  Moliant  syr  Wm:  Herbart  (o  gowlbrwK) 

Or  herbart  hir  ar  brvt  hen     .     .     .: 
kroes  dyw  nef  or  krisdion  wyd 
151  Moliant  tonias  ap  ri/s  o'vri/n  hevliarth 

yr  oen  gwar  ariaii  i  gyd     .     ,     .     ,     , 

poyd  rwydd  gael  byw  trwy  heddwch  , 

153  Kywydd  i  ofyn  kyniod  dafydd  Uvyd  0  ^aer  eimiion 
AdJ'af  pridodd  pyradwvs,    .... 
mwy  o  bowys  iin  bowyd 

155  Kywydd  i  ofyn  kymmod  Sion  pilstwn,  q  faelor 
ben  ddelw  hon  addolyijt     .     .,    .     , 
pe  pallai  ynraed  pob  He  yn  rydd 

157  Kyinjdd  marwnad  Rys  Nanmor 

0  fessv  bydd  eissie  bardd     .... 
nen  bren  pob  a  wen  pe  byw 

\&Q  Kynirv  yn  ffres  kymerenffrainJi 

kwrs  ydiw  karv  savvdwyr     .     .     . 
ni  bo  i  gwal  heb  i  gwj'r 

161  Moliant  Jlowel  ap  Je.van  koch 

Hawddamawr  nim  dawr  i  dwyn     1     , 
ocben  enaid  vweh  mynydd         ' 

163  Kywydd  i  "  erchi  alarchod  " 

Tomas  andras  ar  win(3ref     .     . 
fy  eleirch  er  dengmeireh  a  dvg 

164  Moliant  4  mab  Tvdvr  llwyd  o  fon 

Myned  i  rwy  i  dir  men  draw     .     .     . 
tref  yw  o  fon  tra  fwy  fyw 

167  Owdid  farirnad  grvffydd  Rydderch  q  fon       ,  , 

Troes  mor  ar  ^for  orevfan     .... 
trosom   i  y  troes  y  mor  Marys  gethin 

170  Marwnad  Dd:  ap  Gtoilim  1         , 

Davydd  vab  gwilini  ymv     ....  , 

a  thevrn  oedd  aelh  ir  nef  ^olo  goch 

174  gway  fine  fed  tylodi  yn  ymgytgan  pob  man  a  mi  &c.   Anun 

175  Kywydd  i  oioain  tydyr  yngarchar         ,  ,,    ., 

da  gwyudom  dewi  a  godde, '  . 
yn  rydd  i  ben  mynydd  mc)n 

gwyl  bedyr  i  bym  yn  edrych. 
yn  anreg  bid  tec  bid  liagr  i  , 


/ 


Robert  leia 


Jefmi  devlicyn 


deio  dp  Jefaw  dv 


Jolo  goch 


k 


177 


feu:  gethin  ap  J.  ap  leis'n 
Dd:  np  Gwilim 


179      yr  Let  vedw  da  yth  gedwir     .  .     . 

gwaith  wyd  morvydd  llwyd  aii  llaw 

181  Y  kelynllwyn  kyva  lownllwytb  '. '   '. 
gyssylldedic  gaer  brie  bron  ''■ 

182  doe  i  royddWn  dioer  eiddyl     .  .     ', 
Uewpart  a  dart  yn  i  din 

184       dysgais  ddwyn  cariad,  esgyd     .  |,f',, • 

kowir  ni  mynegir  m«y  .,1,,^ 


2i6 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT    161, 


sir  owen  ap  gwilim 

dd:  ap  edmunt 

llowdden 

grvff:  hiraythog 

Deio  ap  Jenan  du 


Robert  leia 


llywelyn  ap  gyttyn 


Anon 


I  ewes  mon 


185  Kywydd  i  ofyn  tarie  i  Risiart  Lewis 
J  Hew  iownvraint  Uawen  vray     . 
i  bwyth  a  geir  ne  beth  gwell 

189       Myn  venaicl  mae  yn  vwyneb     .     . 
mwynen  ym  ai  min  awuaeth 

191       triffeth  mawr  i  tra  hoffir     .     .     . 
o  vin  hon  byddwa  vyw  yn  hwy 

193       kevais  vn  kovys  wener     .... 
klaim  ar  hwn  kael  yma  ai  roes 

195  Mab  kadyr  kadwaladyr  kydweljdd 
a  chwedy  delych  tva  fynycb  trie 

196  Kyicydd  ir  kardie  ai  chwrath  ai  Tiant 

kefais  golled  om  kredwch     .     .     . 
yn  sigir  fo  a  gyll  y  sidged 

198  sion  moel :  doed  wyr  mens  ar  deit  ir 
dial  i  gynwk  a  diawl  ai  gvvnayth 

201  Kywydd  i  gyttyn  siencyn  ai  gi 

mewn  Ueyad  may  vn  JIawen 
ys  hwy  vydd  kowydd  y  bi 

202  Mis  ^onawr  myglyd  dyfFryn     .     . 
a-ddervydd  ynydd  ac  ynos 

205  Marwnad  tydyr  llwyd  o  ial 

kwyn  orroec  gan  orevgwyr     .     . 

at  ^essii  gwyn  tvvyssoc  ial 
208  Kywydd  i  Rys  ap  IVn  ap  hwlkyn 

y  ty  kandrws  tec  gwindravl     . 

ar  orwyr  hiiw  ir  evrir  lioun  Iwell  ap  Reinallt 

210  Manvnad  tydyr  llwyd  o  ial 

Mawr  yw  pwys  duw  marw  post  ial     ...     .  )■ 

dyro  naff  i  deyrn  o  ial  Tydyr  cded 

214       dydd  da  yt  y  gog  ssercliowc  fwyn     .... 

dygwn  y  vercb  dec  iawn  vain  Dd:  ap  ginlim 

216  Marwnad  Hoell  ap  IVn  o  fan  a'i  briod 
y  ddevddyn  a  ddiweddwyd     . 
heb  wnhav  meibion  boell 

220       Ty  di  ywr  haf  tad  yr  hyvic     .     . 
eilwaith  yr  haf  ai  lythyr  hardd 

222  Moliant  llys  gwilim  ap  gr:  or  Penrhyn 
y  twr  dan  vaner  yr  eryr  .... 
i  glos  dyw  nac  i  llys  dyn 

224  "John  tydyr  oifodryb" 

medraf  mawr  garaf  em  ragorawl     .     .     . 
gryddliw  yr  od  graddloer  ydych 

226  (Croger  annoger  yn  vwch  /  no  Ihadron  /  &c 

227  doe  gwelwn  karwn  bei  kaid     . 
da  i  trig  ayr  ar  beferfrig  byn 

229       kary  i  rwy  kyryaidd  ryw     . 
kytgwsk  am  byn  lygytgam 

231  Moliant  syr  rys  ap  einion 

Eden  pasgen  wadne  pwysgaink 
gwawr  i  dwyssoe  gyrdyssayr 


/ 


I 


Res  pennardd 
dd:  ap  gtcilim 


P 


Rys  goch  or  yri 

John  tydyr 
D.  ap  Edm:) 


Jeu:  ap  Ryi  ap  J.  llwyd 
Jolo  goch 

Rys  nanmor 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    IGl. 


247 


dd:  cdaw 


Lewis  glyn  liothi 


dafydd  nanmor 


234  Kyivydd  i  ojyii  kyiiiod  Gr:  ap  dd:  ap  hoell  o  Rytj 

(grvtfydd  o  ddolytlil  alwen)  or  a 

gryffydd  o  iownwydd  inawn     .... 

ai  kred  m.ao  koivir  ydwy  Ilowel  Jiihtii 

237  Marwiiad  Rys  ap  hoicel  o  fon  O.C.  milaffynkant  ac  \ 
naniyn  vn  deigiain  ofiawn  nds  tachwsdd 
gw.ie  wlad  brydil  gweled  breyddwyd     ....  h 

na  i'j  ddydd  iiefocdd  iddaw  Mathew  broiciijfi/d 

240  Marwnad  liyddercli  ap  Rys  o  dre  gaycin 

draeu  i  roed  drwy  anrydedd     ....  c 

di'e  ga3'an  yn  dra  gowydd  John  hnmjnog 

243  Moliant  Rydderch  ap  rys  o  dre  gayan 

y  dday  ddyn  o  ddyweddi     ....  d 

hwn  heb  wad  a  honno  bytb  „  „ 

245  Moliant  liytc  ap  Rys 

y  karw  im  oes  i  kair  medd     .     . 
i  ti  einioes  hyd  henaint 

2-19  Maricnad  gryffydd  llwyd  dre  gayan 
gwae  ni  ddar  gwynedd  arab     . 
llwyd  uvdd  yn  Haw  ddyw  net 

253  J  fon  :  Nos  da  ir  yuys  dowell     .     . 
a  dwy  eiiiioes  oi  dynion 

255  Kywydd  i  feib  owain  tvdvr 

y  ddeywr  arglwyddiaidd     .     ,     . 
i  gadw  aylwyd  gydwaladar 

258  Kywydd  ir  seren  a  weled  ymon 

am  i  lliw  i  mae  llawer     ....  i 

ac  arfer  chwedel  a  gorfod        gr:  llivyd  ap  dd:  ap>  einnioii 

261  Owdl  fartcnad  rys  op  sion 

vn  eissiay  golay  rag  alon  y  sydd     ....  h 

weithian  oi  eijsiay  ayth  yn  issaf  ferwerth fynglwyd 

2S5      Eo  dyw  y  galon  ddigllon  bwyll     ....  / 

wrth  fjiigwawr  dyw  mawT  amen  gwilim  ap  sefnyii 

268  Moliant  Wiliam  vyclian  o  Ian  dy  gai 
y  gwr  ai  dy  ar  y  garrec     . 
penn  kenedyl  pennaic  gwynedd 

270  Kywydd  i  Wiliam  or  pennrryn 

gwycb  wiliam  ac  vchelwayd     . 
eryr  evrraid  yryi'i 

274  Kywydd  i  Margret  verch  Wiliam  ap  Wiliam 

Vercli  wjl  vreichie  olwenn     ....  o 

oed  y  main  ar  iad  meinir  (syr  dd:  trevor) 

S76  pwy  hynac  ar  a  el  ar  llyfyr  yma  i  fenthic  doyd  ac  ef  adyre  ac  oni  ddaw 
tfaclyrefymdldith  iddo,  Sfc.  Sfc. 

277  Moliant  mathay  goch 

pan  sonier  in  amser  ni     .     .     .     .  P 

a  gair  lloeger  y  gwr  lliwgocli  gyttor  glyn 

279  Moliant  syr  rysiart  gethin  1 

oer  oedd  weled  yrddolion     .... 
achadw  mawnt  acbadwayw  mawr  "         " 

281       (Kych  gwych  wrych  wl)ch  wych  drych  drist  &e.  D.  ap  G.)   r 


gytto  y  glyn 


hynveric  ap  dd:  goch 


248  MOSTYN    MAMTSCRIPT   161. 

282       kaidda  was  kar  ddewiswyrd'l     ....  a 

nid  yfydd  ueb  ond  ifor  D.  ap  giuilym 

284  Kywydd  pan  ddalwyd  s  Risdart  gethin  at  wyr 

may  glaw  am  a  glowais     ....  J 

y  Hew  dv  oil  ai  diail  gytto  or  glyn 

286       meinwen  wych  liirwen  o  cherais     ....  c 

a  rotho  ych  byd  wrth  ycIi  bodd  Anon 

288  Kywydd  dychan  i  Lywelyn  dylinior 

eirchiad  yn  siarad  y  sydd     ....  d 

OS  talm  ai  klyw  ystlym  kler  dd:  lloyd 

290  Atteb  :  Dafydd  llwyd  ofydd  y  llv     .     .     .     .  e 

gwyn  i  fyd  y  byd  or  bedd  llyw:  ap  gyttyn 

292       Y  ddyn  winfayth  ddymonfawr     ....  f 

Nad  fyn  nywidio  feinioes  ai  harai  ai  kant 

295   Y  Cyhydd :  llyma  yr  hawl  lie  mae  raid     ....  g 

ing  ar  hynt  ir  angor  hen  Anon 

298       Ro  dyw  ynyn  raid  i  ni     .     .     .     .  h 

yn  ochor  y  maen  ni  cliara  mwy  dd:  ap  gwilim 

301       Ty  di  y  gwynt  tad  eira  ac  od     .     .     .     .  i 

a  chan  owdyl  ycliyneidiay  mredydd  ap  rys 

304  Moliant  liisiart  kyffin  o  vangor 

mae  vn  keidwad  mewn  kadair     ....  k 

modfeddaj-  meydwy  fyddaf  gyttor  glyn 

307       edward  ai  wjt  ai  drwyr  tan     ....  I 

chwant  tad  ychen  kochion  tec  llowdden 

310       Torraist  orn  teiraist  arnaf     ....  m 

kent  mar  aythost  mewn  kentiach  '  Res  go} 

314  f  ddeon,  Bangor:  deliais  o  glwy  a  dolyr     ....  n 

pren  per  yr  haelder  ai  roys  gyttor  glyn 

317       gyttyn  y  glyn  a  fy  glaf     .     .     .     .  ■  o 

yw  roi  i  aruU  yrowron  .    syr  rys 

320       gwae  a  gynhaliodd  i  gyd     ...  P 

dan  y  gist  a  dwyn  y  gan  gytto  r  glyn 

323       Y  gwr  addfwyn  gwiw  a  redded     ....  ? 

pardwn  duw  dat  pvrdan  die  gwervyll 

i'3  hoell  vychan  o  vechan  ymowys 

326       KwTS  digwydd  kerafs  degav     ....  '" 

ai  llvsc  i  ddial  vy  Hid  dd:  ap  gwilim 

329       y  penn  yrroed  y  pan  arhwn     ....  * 

gofyn  dy  wr  ar  gefu  dy  orwydd  Tud'  Aled 

3.32       Pwy  sy  ben  powys  o  barch     ....  * 

gofyn  or  penryn  y  pwyth  •>        » 

335  J  rys  ap  sion  :  Pand  hir  na  welir  ond  nos     .     .     .     ■  '>'■ 

o  bydd  byth  wrth  ych  bodd  i  bo  jfer:  fynglwyd 

338  llowrodd  a  roes  i  foessen  .  .  .  i  scnptum  2S  Jmi.  i362  v 
dysgwn  ac  eyrwn  bob  gair  J         Edward  ap  rys 

341    Y  grcregys  o  rodd  syr  JViliam  o  Raglan 

y  ddyraic  bab  or  ynaic  bobyr    .     ...  '" 

ar  gerdd  ir  marchawc  vrddawl  Res  go} 


MOS'lTN   MANUSCRIPT    1G1.  249 

344  Etto  :  ssatlirodcl  {ivr,  sseitljradd  wryd     ....  a 

ac  ynill  ymorganwg  llywelyii  moel  pantri, 

348      mae  gwr  ymwasgwr  ymysk  &c.  Dd:  Nanmor  b 

b.      kaer  lydd  fydd  achylfyddyd     ....  c 

ar  gledd  avr  arglwydd  irien  Hi/s  nanmor 

352  Kyioydd  i  ofyn  Tiyllell  i  ddavydd  ap  hoell 

lie  kyviug  dvrving  dervysc     ....  d 

OS  gwyr  honn  yssgarrio  hydd  Res  gocli 

Dwy  farwnad  i  grvffvdd  llwyd,  ywenydd 
356      vcbel  irrwf  yn  ochaia     ....  e 

enaid  gryfEydd  llwyd  yno  Rijs  goch 

360      Pam  im  ken  heb  ywenydd     ....  / 

dy  nod  pair  ym  glod  am  gler  Wn  moel  pantri 

363  JL.m.yp. — lliw  brwydyr  val  dechre  Haw  bredvr    ...       g 
dirried  wr  dyred  i  awn  Res  goch 

368  Atteb :  Ros  dy  liw  Rys  dylyaidd     ....  h 

ac  gwynedd  vyngoganv  Hi'  moel  pantri 

371      dewrddrvd  lywelyu  daerddraic     ....  i 

awch  ymrwydyr  acbymrodedd  Rys  goch 

375  Marwnad  mredydd  ap  kynferic  o  fan 

doe  yngod  rwng  dav  imgor     ....  k 

gwae  ni  mavw  haylioni  men  „        ,, 

378  Marwnad  gwilim  gryffydd  {o  Lanfaes) 

Rad  elfvdd  ro  dyw  daylfaink     ....  I 

onis  gwnel  dyw  nis  gwna  dyn  „        „ 

382  /  Beyno  abad :  Teg  yw  synwyr  blinwyr  blaid     ....      m 
a  men  a  ffand  yno  i  may  „        ,, 

387.  Anno  d'ni  Millesimo  coeco"  Iviii"  quarto  die  martij 

Tynyssiviad  ydiw  pwy  bynnac  a  o  kopeio  y  Uyft  yma  pa  try d  bynnao  ar  i  tywUo 
yr  ysgriven  honn  o  gywydde  ....  gymeryd  o  bono  ef  y  boen  i  adnywyddy 
hwynt  mewD  papyr  neTrydd  a  bevyd  yrycTwy  vi  yn  ydolwc  ir  neb  a  gaffo  y  Uyfr 
hwn  i  adel  ef  heb  i  venthyckio  i  neb  ond  gadel  ir  neb  a  vynuo  i  ddarllen  ef  gartre 
ac  irwyfi  yn  ymkaDy  irsgrivenny  kywdde  j'n  y  llyfr  hwn  /  o  acbos  da  ydynt  o 
waith  yr  hen  brydyddion  ynddiddanwch  ac  yn  ddyskeidietb  irrai  a  ddel  yn  ol 
hyn  /  ac  am  hynny  y  dowaid  y  lladingwr  / 

gutta  Cadat  lipidem  non  vi  sed  sepe  Cadendo 
sic  homu  fit  sapiens  non  vi  sed  sepe  legendo. 
Sef  yw  hynny  y  droppyn  dwi-  a  dylla  y  garrec  nid  o  herwydd  kryfdwr  y  dwr 
ond  0  vynych  ssyrthio  ar  y  garrec  /  relly  i  bydd  gwr  yn  ddoeth  nid  wrtli  gryfdwr 
ond  0  vynych  ddarllain  Uyfrev  ac  ystoriav.* 

388  Yr  eglyr  bavn  ar  glaer  bais     ....  n 
a  dwc  gwen  o  dy  i  gwr                                   dauid  nanmor 

389  Madyu  Ronwyn  Ry  enwir     ....  o 
Am  i  ownf  yno  i  ymwanwn                       Res  goch  o  Ryri 

390  kledd  dar  wynedd  ai  drych     ....  p 
amgen  na  cherdd  am  gynyw  cbwyrn                  Tudvr  aled 

393      Uoer  wen  lliw  eira  vnnos     ....  q 

achayl  nef  ddyn  wychlan  wyd  Jeuan  tew  brydydd 

395  Atteb:  |euan  mawl  winllan  wnllwyd     ....  »" 

Nith  vynn  Uiwr  ewyn  .  .  .  llwyd  a  hen  wyd     .... 
a  duw  vadde  yt  ty  veddwl  Syr  harre 

*  The  above  introduction,  apparently,  marks  p.  387  as   the   original  first  page  of 
the  MS. 
t  Altered  into  "  wen."     See  Catalogue,  p.  256, )-. 


250 


MOSTYN  MANUSCKIPT   161. 


jfeuan  tew  hrijdydd 

dd:  lloyd  ap  ICn  ap  gr: 

Hi'  ap  gyttyu 

)>         J) 
lewys  mon 


d 


f 


Jeuan  tew  brydydd 
Jeuan  dayllwyn] 


h 


k 


398       Y  vvn  eiliw  od  ar  vaes      .     ,     . 

moes  drwy  hyrr  ii-  meistyr  harri 
401       Da  miawn  kyff  dewi  y  raynyw 

a  dar  byd  uid  a  ir  bedd 
403       May  gwr  im  dlrtnygy 

arched  benn  eirehiad  y  byd 
406       Ddyn  fwyn  a  ddaw  yn  vynycli 

OS  kae  vil  drwy  nas  kae  vo 
408       gwaer  (vn)  a  ddvc  ir  ynys     .     . 

i  ddwy  gl#  *  *  a  ddwg  ai  law 
410  Gtvilim  ap  sefnyn  oi  blant  o  vvass\_ent'\  veirw  or  node 

Wrth  edrych  galanwych  gael     .... 

o  nattvr  vy  nwyn  attvn  Gicilim  ap  Sefnyn 

412  Jvan  tew  bryd: — Y  gwr  oydioc  a  gredir     .... 

nao  aed  i  mi  ac  yd  mwy  Meistr  Harri  Kydweli 

414  Atleb :  Y  meistyr  ni  ssomai  estrawn     .... 

ef  a  gyst  avr  yt  gwas  dewr  wyf 
41?       Doe  i  kevais  i  gan  Riain     . 

nid  a  na  tn*  *  *  *  na  dwy 
418       Duw  a  roes  bar  dros  y  byd     .     . 

gynt  y  kae  veirdd  digeirdd  doa 

gynheiliaeth  oil  f;an  haelion 

a  ffvrrwych  glod  a  fEarch  glav 

a  ssidan  yn  drwssiadav 

ac  vrddas  dec  wrdd  ystad 

ac  aiir  gwyr  ac  gwir  garriad 

lieddiw  per  rron  yr  liaeddant 

ystad  na  charriad  ni  chant 

nac  golvd  naffarch  nac  elw 

nac  vrddas  enwoc  aiddelw 

na  chynheiliaeth  Rwyddfaeth  Ead 

na  da  wellwell  na  dillad     .     .     . 

hwy  pery  klod  mowlnod  maith 

no  golyd  enwoc  eilwaith     .     .     . 

ar  gwr  ai  medd  evrgarw  main 
-420  llawddamawr  mvreiuvawr  maith 

penrryu  gloyw  veddyglyn  glas 
422       Tri  fiorthor  digyvor  dig     ....  ]n 

ai  wrych  gawr  wrach  ai  [gi]  .,         j, 

424   7  Ho:  Goyltmawr :  Ilowel  wyd  wiw  hayla  hyd  vedd  ...       u 

a  chynvydd  ar  nghanved  jfeuan  lloyd 

426       SiefFrai  a  yf  osai  ffraink     ....  o 

(ayth  yn)  sied  ar  korn  i  ssion  [gwltto"  glyn 

429  Marivnad  syr  Rys  ap  Tomas 

Dyn  wy  ni  chais  bod  yn  wych     ....  p 

dros  go£  betai  deiroes  gwyr  deio  ap  jfeuan  dy 

431  Mar:  sienkin  ap  Mre'ddfarwn — See  Catalogue  p.  170a. 

Pwl  vydd  kerdd  pob  overdyn     ....  q 

#  #  #  liad  y  wyf  a  thylawd  iawn  (=i,  40)  ||  „        j, 

434       klod  i  dduw  gwir  ddvw  a  gerddo  a  mawl 

bychan  heb  ynddo  becliod 
b.  J  Wiliam  ab  Jfan  or  Rhiivlas 

Wiliam  Ian  abifan  nid  bas  dwg  hiroes     . 

yma/  n  /  hir  a  fo  in  haros 


sstmunt  vychaii 
dd:  ap  givillim 


Anon 


Sion  Branas 


MOSTYX  MAXUSCRIPT   161. 


251 


435 


436 


Part  II. 

Howel  winfaeth  hael  iowufvdd 
Howel  par  ym  feiuhav 

y  sydd     .     . 


llotcdden 


Am  ysgobion  son 


439 


442 


445 


Morys  Bertcijn 

John  Philip 

Roeger  Kyffin 

fevan  ap  Tudr  Pehlhjn 

Richard  Phylip 


453 


456 


462 
465 

466 

467 

469 

471 

473 

477 

480 

h. 

481 


Jr;hn  Phylip 


Richard  Phijlip 


el  i  hwnn  dreilio  heiwint 

Mae  Haw  fawr  am  holl  feirion 
Wiliam  ai  tal  amod  teg 

fal  yr  hydd  ir  glennydd  glan 
avr  i  fanwyl  o  faenan 

Vn  wyt  ai  arf  a  wna  tes     .     . 
e  i  bun  fo  ladd  vn  ne  ddav 

447  /  Mr:  Pirs  llwyd  or  deirnioti 

Y  gwr  dilwgr  waedoliaetii     .... 
diolch  fydd  o  dal  ywch  fyth 

450  /  dref  Conwy  pann  oedd  y  nodav  yno 

Conwy  deg  hynod  o  gylch     .... 
dijw  ai  nawdd  n  /  dy  nodded 

Y  Cryf  angel  kryfaugawg     .... 
a  gwae  fytli  eiddig  oi  fod 

Dvw  /  Q  /  rh-vydd  edii  rrvddv  ydwyd 
fydd  eiddig  nefoedd  iddo 
459  Kowydd  i  ofyn  pwys  o  dybacco  i  sion  IVyn   Oicen 

Y  karw  gwyn  car  i  gynau     .... 

iach  oed  evrawg  ich  devrvdd  John  PhiVqjp 

Yr  angel  ar  wyr  yngod     .... 

da  talo  dvw  yt  eilwaith  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Jfan 

Am  vn  a  wnaeth  mwy  na  neb     .     .     . 

ai  bvm  oes  ir  neb  ai  *  «  * 

kenad  i  siarad  liw  seren  awch  ofyd  &c, 

Sir  fon  wen  os  Rifwn  wyr     .... 
[cair]   pwyth  y  bau  kan  peth  mwy 

Yr  hydd  a  elwir  Eyddercli     .... 
i  chwi  Rydderch  ai  Roddes 

A  fyno  da  fwy  no  dav     .     .     „     . 

Deinial  a  gattwo  deinioes 

Ystiwart  rhos  ach  dart  rhvdd     .     .     . 

odid  byw  wedi  dy  ben 

Mae  gair  i  dad  am  garw  dv     .     .     . 

derbyn  hydd  dewr  bonheddig 

evr  wawr  nevoddfawr  naddfain  &c. 

Grvffydd  fawl  rjgorawl  gerdd  &c. 

Desyf  mae  hwn  gwnn  genycli 
dwy  siarp  faethiades  wych     .     .     . 
rodd  i  gwerth  i  chwi  /  r  /  hydd  gwych 


/ 


Gr:  hiraethocj 


sion  Tcdvr 
Tvdvr  aled 

Uvw  llyn 
y  kryth  bach 

Hviv  Roberts  lleiij 


Part  III. 
513-15  Table  of  contents. 

Elegies  to  Gr:  JVynn  or  berth  ddu  Esqr: 
529       Bro  Troya  brav  y  trewynt     .     .     .     . 
huw  gwyn  yw  fwynhav  ganoes 


Rys  Cain 


252 


MOSTYJS'   MANUSCRIPT   .161. 


533       Mawr  wylof  trwm  ywr  alaeth     ....  _ 

a  drig  iddav  /n/  dragwyddaw)  hum  Pennant 

538       Kwjniou  i  ddynioii  y  ddwy  wynedd     ....  j 

oil  ai  i  ddwy  wynedd  ai  holl  ddynion  huw  maehno 

544       Troes  diliw  tros  y  dalaith     ....  ^ 

vfudd  oedd  nefoedd  iddaw  Morvs  berwiin 

547       ^essu  o  nef  ath  lef  ath  wylofain     ....  ^ 

J  rai  amen  a  Eo  ymynedd  William  ap  Raff 

553       ^r  berth  ddu  /  r  /  a  Uv  o  fro  Ueyn     ....  g 

gan  fair  obr  a  thai  ir  gwynn  or  berth  ddv     Sion  Phylib 

657       Och  gynted  ir  hed  yr  oes     ....  f 

dig  ywr  Hid  ym  deigr  halld  a  red  „ 

Cyioydeu  Moliant  i  Huiv  gwynn 
Mawr  ywr  gair  am  eryr  gwyn     . 
ai  gwna  yn  ben  gwnua  yn  y  byd 

Droganwn  fynd  draw  gan  foes     . 
ar  berth  ddv  a  fvr  barth  hen 


562 


566 


Risiart  Phylltp 
Wm:  ap  Raphe  Wynn 


569 


573 


577 


581 


585 


589 


594 


598 


601 


606 


Y  karw  brav  sad  kroewber  son     . 
huw  gwyn  hwyr  derfyn  ar  does 

Marwnadeu  i  Mr:  Huib  gwynn  .  l6l/f . 
O  duw  fyrred  i  fowredd  .... 
^  wynn  i  aer  yn  i  ol 

Doe  tybiais  dowad  tiben     .... 
Huw  /  n  /  yne  sydd  heno  yn  sant 

Awn  a  chwyn  heniach  winwydd     .     . 
Oen  duw  sant  yw  enaid  sydd 

Pryddfyd  tro  ar  fyd  trwy  /  r  /  f al     . 
byrth  ne  i  wynn  or  berth  ddv  /  n  /  ol 

Mawr  bevnydd  mae  oer  benyd     . 
ag  enaid  huw  o  gnawd  hael 

Mai  ochain  heb  ddim  iechyd     .     .     . 
i  fab  gwyn  fo  byw  gaiioes 

Cyioydeu  Moliant  i  Mr:  Huw  gwynn 

Y  gwir  eryr  gorevraid     ... 
a  ro  mab  dvw  i  huw  hael 

Y  gwynn  ar  bob  gwynn  or  byd     .     . 
oi  llin  nhwy  Jeirll  yn  i  hoi 

Bv  Ewydd  iawn  gerdd  beirddion  gynt 
krist  wyn  a  wyr  kroesi  does 


Sion  Phyllip 

k 
Huw  maehno 

I 
Riciart  Phylip 

.     .  m 

Gruffydd  Phylips 

.     .     .  n 

Sion  Phylip 

.     .  0 

Kadwaladr  Kesail 

•       .  .  P 

Risiart  Kynwal 

<1 
Roger  Kyffin 

'    ■  I     '' 

Risiart  Kynwal 

.     .     •  * 

Huw  Maehno 

609  Kywydd  i  ofyn  Medde  a  dagar  i  Robt:  TVynn 

Y  gwyn  |fank  iawn  afael     ....  t 
a  dager  ith  gefnder  gwyn                             Risiart  Kynwal 

613  Kywydd  i  Mr:  Robt:  PFynn  pan  briododd 

Y  gwyn  ai  drwy  gonwy  draw     ....  « 
Haw  ddvw  nef  ai  llwyddo/n/  vn                    •.            » 

617  3Iarwnad  Mrs:  Gwenn  Salbri  .    1SS1 

Sorri  o  dduw  saer  y  ddavar     ...  .11 

ni  bydd  Gwenn  heb  ddigonedd  Sion  Tudur 


MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    101.  263 

621  Moliant  i  Mr:  Gnjffyth  Wynne 

Y  Sirri  glwys  avr  i  gledd     ....  a 
i  bo  i  wyueij  ai  einioes                                         John  Phylip 

625  Mancnad  Mm:  Given  Salbri  -ISHI 

Dwyn  enaicl  a  chorffe  dwjfii  aiincdd     ....  b 

i  bv  wae  ninav  heb  vii  enaid  Slon  Phyllh 

Cywyiteu  Moliant  i  Mr:  Robert  fVymic 
C30      Y  brav  Ian  berl  o  wjmedd     ....  c 

ordeinied  yii  hir  deiuioes  Huiv  Maclino 

634      Y  Sirri  gwyn  sy  wr  gwycli     ....  d 

kodiad  bir  y  keidvvad  hvvn  Risiart  Kynwal 

638      Y  Sirri  Gwynn  sy  ar  gant     ....  e 

Oes  bir  yw  gorff  Siiri  gwyu  Jams  Dwn 

G43  Kijwijdd  kymod  i  Mr:  Huie  Gwyn 

Mae  kvr  ammwynt  im  krymv     ...  f 

awr  0  byrth  avr  y  Bertb  ddv  Rys  Cain  l60l 

647  Moliant  Mr:  Robt:  Wynne 

Y  Hew  on  gwlad  11a wen  glan     ....  g 
sir  y  llv  \)yv/ 1^1  iarll  y  bycb                               Sion  Kain 

650  &  952  Mar:  Sion  Gruff ydd  Carnarfon  l60S 

Duw  biav  nevvid  bowyd    ....  h 

oil  enaid  y  llew  vnion  Htiic  machno 

655      Yr  wylan  fal  yr  alarch     ....  i 

a  newydd  irr  mynvdd  mawr  Richard  Kynwal 

661  Kyioydd  i  Hvw  Gwynn  aer  Rob:  Wynne 

Os  Dvw,  i  feirdd  ys  da  fydd     ....  k 

ar  y  11*  fab  iarll  a  fych  Hvw  Machno 

666  Marwnad  Jemivnt  Wynn 

Tristwcb  Wdd  yn  nydd  a  /  nos     ....  I 

hynod  wr  yw  enaid  ef  Ricliard  Kynnwal 

670  Kywydd  i  Hvw  gwynn  pan  anedfo 

Duw  a  roes  a  da  y w  /  r  /  wedd     ....  m 

a  ebynnydd  fwy  na  channoes  „  „ 

675  Moliant  Robert  Wyn  esgwiair 

Yr  esgwiair  sy  gv.acb     ....  ■n 

ai  dravl  Ian  /  drwy  lawenydd  ^ 

680      Aer  a  welwn  arr  wiwlwydd     ....  o 

Uwydd  kad/Uaw  dduw  ai  kadwo  l63l  Ric:  Phi: 

683      Os  hael  ym  hob  kwys  helaeth     ....  n 

Hwy  bo  ir  tir  Robert  wynn  Hvw  Machno 

688  J  M'  W"  Wyn  o  lanfair  pan  odd  yn  sir  if .  l631  . 

Mae  swyddwyr  grymys  heddyw     ....  q 

Wiliam  Wynn  hael  yma  /n/' hen         Watthjn  Klywedog 

692  Moliant  Mr:  Robert  wynn  or  berthv  Esqeier 

Y  Ehowiog  lain  hir  i  glod     ....  r 

mwy  oes  draw  el  i  Meister  Wynn  Gr:  PhylUps 

695  f  ofyn  kymod  Mr:  Rob:  Wynn  or  berth  ddv  Esg: 

Adda  hiraeth  a  wyddiad     ....  * 

0  dai  /  r  /  gwynn  draw  i  ganv  Watkin  Klywedog 


254  MOSTYN  MANUSCfilPT   IGl. 

700  Ynghjnion  cof  oedran,bedydd,  a  gossibion  Catlierinaeres 

ag  vnigferch  Hum  Wyiin  or  Berth  ddv  Esgwier .  1653. 
Vn  mil  a  chwecbant  iawn  moli     ....  (, 

perffeth  jw  geneth  Huw  Gwynn  Man:  Parry 

701  Marwnad  s'  Richard  wynne  Gwydyr  Barronet 

Gwae'r,  siroedJ  eyhoedd  i  cwyn     ....  j 

Gormod  gwaitb  maith  i  mi  —  Uft  unfmished. 

743  3Iarwnad  Mr:  Sion  Gryffydd  o  lyn 

Dydd  brawd  am  y  mrawd  mae  mron     ....  ^ 

dydd  brawd/or  dyrnawd  /  a  roed  arnaf  Tomas  prys 

749  Marwnad  Mr:  Hanihal  Prys 

beth  a  wnavvn  /  beth  iawn  Enyd     ....  ^ 

dvw  da  all  /  doed  i  wllys  ^^        ^ 

752  Marwnad  Mrs:  Marged  Grvffydd  o  garnarvon  l625 

Kri  mawr  sy  /  n  /  y  kaorav  main     ....  <. 

j  weled  marged  amen  Richard  Ktjnwal 

756  Marwnad  Sion  Grvffvdd  o  gaernarjon  l6oS 

mae  diliw  am  y  dalaith     ....  f 

o  daw  koel  fydd  dvwk  "Wiliam  Simi  kain 

759       Y  gwr  eglyr  i  groglitli     ....  „ 

dvw  mawr  rhag  pob  dim  avail  sion  Brwynog 

Marwnadeu  Rob:  Wynn  or  berthv  qui  obijt  23  Febr:  l6lfi 
763       Troes  y  byd  dwys  enbyd  son     ....  /j 

hynod  wr  ai  enaid  aetb  Dd:  nan  Kotiwy 

767       Oer  iawn  i  doetb  yr  vn  dydd     ....  i 

i  aer  gannoes  ar  gynnydd  Humphrey  ap  howel 

770       Doe  oer  f raw  bir  drwy  r  /  fro  lion     ....  k 

i  bo  /r/  tal  i  Eobert  wyn  G ruff xj dd Phy lip 

776       Mae  /  r  /  oer  gwj^n  am  eryr  gwaed     ....  I 

Irwyn  Ifor  ir  nefoedd  Robert  Dyfi 


m 


Y   PeDWERYDD    BJYFYE. 

943      Table  of  contents. 

945  Marwnad  Kapten  Sion  Salesbri  o  Rvg  1611 
Betb  yw  gwr  bath  a  gerir     .... 
yngolwg  dvw  ai  ang[ylion]  Signature  cut  off. 

952       Duw  biav  newid  bowyd    See  p.  650  above.  H.  Machno    n 

955       Mae  diliw  am  y  dalith  &c.     See  p.  736  above,  o 

960  fr  Evddiges  :  Mawr  genym  awr  ag  enyd     ....  p 

bwrn  ai  dyko  iw  bedd  Gryffeth  Hiraethog 

962  Marwnad  S''  John  lloyd  o  Jale 

Y  Hong  yn  gaudrell  Angor     ....  y 

iawn  a  gawn  pes  bai  iawn  yw  gael  ffowh  lloyd 

969       Dwys  ym  son  /  nad  oes  ym  serch     ....  r 

vn  wych  /  oedd  /  yn  iach  iddi  Gtvilim  ap  Jevan  hen 


MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   162,  255- 

972  Marwnad  Mrs:  Margred  Tomas  gwraig  i  Mr:  Sion 
Gryffydd  o  gaernarfon 
Yr  angav  /  dewr  gwnav  /  dv     .     .     .     .  «- 

ddvw  dda  /  drigaredd  iddi     Rob:  ap  Rhys  wi/nn  o  raeanog 

975      Vn  dan  faych  yn  dwyn  i  fj<l     S'ee  ie/oio  MS.  162,  p.  loi.  i 

978  Kwyn  am  3Ir:  Hugh  Wynne  ah  Wm:  Acr  y  Graeanllyn 

Pa  lef  oer  pa  lif'eiriaiit     ....  c 

i  duw  ytoedd  yw  atal  William  vavghan  esquier 

982  Kywydd  i  ofyn  trigaredd  i  ddvw 

Gwir  advn  gvr  ydwyf    ....  d 

anrhydedd  mavvredd  Amen  Morgan  ap  hugh  Lewes 

985  Cijicydd  ir  questi  am  dyngv  invdon 

Gwae  ni  flined  tynged  tost     ....  e- 

llin  ydem  yn  llown  adwith  (I-  lo)—not  completed. 

987  The  Epitaphe  of  dame  Jane  Stradling  first  wiffe  to  Sr 
Wm:  Gruffith  composed  in  Welshe  [6y]  Lewys  mon, 
converted  into  Englishe  meetcr  by  D.  G.  at  the  re- 
quest of  Mrs:  M.  Th:  her  daughter,  8 .  Maye  •  1573. 

llawen  fyth  ni  allwn  fod  f 

lie  doer  angav,  lleidr  yngod     .     .     . 

where  dreede  fidl  death  vncald  doth  come 

theare  Joy  dothe  not  abi/d  <S)-c 

hyd  dydd  farn  bod  heddivv  i  bo.  Lewys  Mon 

993  Kywydd  i  M'  Nicholas  Griiffylh 

Yr  hydd  hael  rhoddwr  heleth     ....  g 

pie  mae/n/  fyw  vn  rhyw  mor  hael  (\.  22)— unfinished. 

995  Marwnad  M'  niklas  Gryffyth  l6i5 

Dvw  geidwad  ai  dig  ydwyd     ....  h 

bevnydd  dvw  bia  :  Enaid     .  Wathin  hlyicedog 


MS.  162.  Welsh  Poetry,  &c.  from  the  Cors  y  Gedol  Library. 
Paper;  \2\  x  7f  inches;  122  pages;  written  between  1598  and 
1640;  bound  in  white  vellum.  The  name  "Robert  Hookes"  occurs  on 
page  1,  and  that  of  "  Will:  Maurice  "  on  page  122.  Pages  110, 114-15 
are  blank. 

1  a.  A  medison  for  the  heeringe. 

h.  Simon  Williames  and  Henry  Pryce  for  two  musketes  &c. 

c.  Ni  fyn  gwen  seren  siriol  wr  y  dydd  &c.  Anon 

2  Casse  Debet  ct  casse  Credit    Anno  1598 
14  Despens  de  Merchandise  Debet     Anno  1598 

17  Sensuyct  la  specification  des  despens  desbourssez  pour  compte 
doliuier  le  riche  a  scauoir     Anno  1598 

18  Sensuyt  la  specification  des  menus  despens    desbourssez  pour 
compte  de  pierre  aulx  clefs     Anno  1598 

19  Despens  pour  compte  a  \  auecq  Nicolas  des  champs  .  1598 

20  Despens  faict  pour  Compte  \  auecq  Vincent  le  boucq. 

21  Despens  de  demesnage  par  tout  Lan     1598 


250 


WOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   162. 


.  On  spaces  left  blank  on  pages  5,  6,  10,  13,  20  and  21  are  medical  recipes  ; 
and  on  page  17: 

Gwerthais   ,  i ,  genav  gwrthyn  wilog  .... 
or  ddwy  ddiawl  ,  r ,  vn   yn  dda  ./ 
Table  of  contents  in  a  late  hand. 

Y  llwyn  ai  wisg  oil  yn  Avyi-arl     .... 
/i/  dal  nef  /o/  dewlwyn  ir 

Cywydd  j  i  I  yrrv  /  r  /  Bronrhvddvn  yn  llattai 

Y  kelioc,  brav  ar  klog  brych     .... 
difier  uos  /i/  dewfron  allt  ./ 

(Sion  Roderig  can  diddig  in  dyddiaii  &c. 

27  fwraig  eiddig  :  Pevnydd,  yrwy  yn  poeni     . 
ai  ddavarv  a  ddorwH./ 

Y  tal  dan  /  y  /  molved  tv     .     .     .     . 
mi  /a/  ga  /r/  gore  /n/  y  llan./ 

Pwyr,  iai'lles  mewa  pvr  eirlliw     .... 
feindlos  mae  /  n  /  agos  fynydd 

Caw  roeddwn  gwn  gwufan     .     . 
liyn  amen  lion  /  i  /  minav  ./ 

Y  f vn  deg  /  o  /  von  hyd  ial     . 
i  ti  ddim  ond  hawddamawr  ./ 


22 

23 


26 


28 


29 


30 


31 


John  Tvdr 


R.  ?  G.)  d 

■     ■  e 

llowdden 


Tvdr  Aled 


John  Tudr 


Gvttyn  bach  or  park 


h 


33  Y  ftoer  liael  /  a  /  Uiw/  r  /  hevlwen     . 
ni  fyddwn  /  i  /  fy w  ddwynos ./ 

34  dyda,  ir  verch  ar  did  avr  vawr     .     . 
knott  ar  bawb  kana  it  air  byth. 

36       Kefais  gan  ddyn  gwrtais  gall     .     .     , 
awen  f  wynach  /  n  /  f  einioes  ./ 

38  ]fselv  merch  oes  le  mwyn 

ond  or  vnlle  mewn  draenllwyn     .     . 
glas  a  gwyn  dan  glos  y  gwydd 

39  Gwae  a  fai  /n/  brvdd  rach  ofn  brad 
ag  /a/  oeres  o  gariad     .... 

y  ddavar  ach  ysgar  chwi./ 

40  Gwae  /a/  vwriodd  gof  oerwas     ,     . 
^th  vceled  dvw  itli  wlad  ti 

42  Ba  yniit  /  o  /  bai  annerch     .     .     . 
dervid  wen  dy  ervod  vnwaith 

43  Yr  eglvr  Bava  ar  glaer  bais     .     .     . 
a  dwg  gwen  /  o  /  dy  /  i  /  gwr./ 

44  Madyn  Ronwyn  ry  enwir     .     .     .     . 
am  /  i  /  own  yno  im  wanwn./ 


Gruffith  ap  Jevan 
John  Tudr 

Roger  Keffin 

I 

Dauid  ap  Edmund 

Gruffith  ap  Jevan 

■     ■  1 

jfevan  brydydtd  llys 

Gruff:  ap  Jeuan 

Dauidd  Nanmor 

Rys  goch  or  yri 


KowTBEu  Thomas  PeyS. 

45       Y  Haw  a  dovodd  y  llwyn     .... 
yn  llynn  am  dori  /  r  /  glin  glas 

4(j       Pa  ryw  ddialedd  prvdd  ddolvr     .     ,     . 
yn  /  y  /  tir  yn  anad  dyn  ./ 

47       Dvw  na  welwn  dan  elor    .... 
dvw  dod  wen  bvrwen  i  brig 
Yn  weddw  er  mwyn  ffroen  eiddig 


Thomas  Prys 


MOSTY-N   MANUSCUIPT   162.  257 

48      D/n  wyf  yn  avos  dan  wydd     ....  a 

fenaid  /  i  /  miaav  ftxnwyl  .  /  2'liom'is  Pnjs 

50  r  gwr  anvvj'l  gair  vniawn     ....  h 
dial  y  ferch  /  a  /  dal  f o  .  / 

52      Y  chwanen  bach  vuioii  bvT     .     .     .  c 

er  vn  mab  /  y  /  gwr  an  medd 

51  Y  fwyalohen  dan  fylcboed     ....  d 
giw  dv  doetb  ath  gadwo  di  .  / 

56      Y  gwr  fyth  /a/  garo  ferch     .     .  e 

gair  om  pen  ar  wen  yn  wir  .  / 

58      Anap  oedd  na  wypay  wr     .     .     .     .  f 

dall  /  i  /  bawb  y w  dyll  /  y  /  byd     .... 
byddwn  hyd  /  i  /  gwn  yn  gall  .  / 

60  Kerais  wiwfercli  kwrs  vfvdd     ....  g 

j  i  /  glaned  ar  /  i  /  gliniav 

61  Y  fvn  iraidd  fwyn  araf     ....  A 
na  diwedd  foes  na  dydd  farn  .  / 

62  Koioydd  kymod  rhwng  Sion  lloyd  o  Jal  a  TV"  milton  " 

Y  ddav  lew  iraidd  la  wen     ....  i 

ych  krogi  gan  ych  gwragedd 


64  Koxoyctd  i  yrrv  /  y  j  dehevwynt  j  i  j  gyrchv  JPirs 
gryifydd  or  pennrht/n  adref  iSgg 

Y  gwynt  or  deav  gyntedd     ....  i 
er  mair  hael  irr  mor  beli  /                                 Hvw  Eoberts 

67  Ymddiddan  rhiong  yr  offeiriad  ar  llankes 

Heddyw  dydd  da  yt  hoewSayn     ....  / 

yn  enw  dvw  yn  anad  vii  Ano?i 

69  /  veingtid:  kanv  i  rwyf  kwyn  oyr  ofid     .     .     .     .  m 

dol  /  a  /  ddel  ymadel  mwy  Tvdr  aled 

1l      Dydd  da  ir  llwynog  or  ogof    ....  n 

fEarwel  rhaid  ym  fib  ir  allt  Hugh  lloyd 

74  /o"  tydyr  yn  dioyn  malpai  y  marchog    Sir  Sion 
Salbri  yn  kynghori  ei  Blant 
O  daed  fal  /  y  /  dy wedant     ....  o 

yn  iacb  i  wr  yn  eich  ol  Jo"  tydyr 

?6  Uyma  owdl  foliant  i  M'  Willim  Wynn  o  lanfair 

Kanaf  ir  haelaf  pob  rhai     ....  p 

a  gokd  gancoes  i  glod  a  ganaf  Richard  Itymval 

80  Brevddivyd  prydydd  i  m'  Niklas  hookes 

Pal  yr  oeddwn  /  gwnn  /  ganv     ....  q 

drigeinoes  /  i  /  dre  gonwy  „  „ 

83  Moliant  Syr  Thomas  Salushvri  o  lyweni 

Ni  ferchyg  sais  farchog  svdd     ....  »• 

by  bae  syr  am  bob  seren  Lewis  man 

85  Marwnad  Sion  Owen  o  frynn  kenrtck  159S 

Y  Byd  tallfvd  twyllfyr     ....  * 
nei  /  ij  Sion,  fynewis  arcli.  /       hugh  ap  Wm:  ap  Evgion 

e    87130.  R 


258  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   162. 

88  V  glomen  yn  genad  at  m'  Nihlas  hwkes.  / 

Y  glomoii  iwydwen  loewdeg     ....  a 

dwg  iownwawd  yw  dai  /i/  gonwy  hvw  inachno 

91  Mar:  irC  Tomas  Wiliams  ap  Wm:  or  Kredtdyn  ap  S.  oio: 

Mae  oer  alar  /  mawr  wylaw     ....  b 

Yr  llynedd  wr  llawen  wycli 

Ya  llann  dudno  gymro  gwych 

ag  y  leni  wr  glann  wedd 

trig  mewn  llann  Beblige  [ctc]  mewn  bedd     ,     .     .     , 

a  fv  ddewr  ir  nefoedd  aeth  Richard  hjnwal 

95       Ni  rown  foliant  /i/  ddvw  yr  tad     .     .     .     .  c 

oi  ganv  /i/  chwi  yr  nadolig  Anon 

97  Mar:  m'  Richard  Wiliams  ap  Wm:  o  Aber  Konmj  1620 

briw  sy  fawr  ba  ryw  ias  fwy     ....  d 

win  a  chroeso  /  n  /  iach  Eisiart  Richard  kynnival 

100  Annifyr  iawu  wrtb  ofyn  e 
Nos  a  d5>dd  yw  einios  d^n     .... 

gwiliwch  mae  fiel  ych  gelyn  (1.  38)  || 

101  Marwnad  M'Johnhoohes  0  Gominj  Esqr: 

Vft  dan  faych  yn  dwyn  /  i  /  f^^il    ...  / 

yn  iach  Hwkes  galon  wych  hael.  /  dros  W"  fychan 

104  Pob  d^n  gwrandawed  fel  i  bv  yn  ILanddoged  ....  g 
a  gaed  gan  Huw  holant  dros  fynd  ir  mor  heli 

Rob:  Uoyd  person  Gw  ytherin 

105  A  glywsoch  /i/y  kelwydd  a  lunied  o  newydd  ....         h 
nhw  ey thyu  /  i  /  nfonydd  ond  eythyn  i  faynan 

106  Atteh:  A  fynwch  i  odol  hynod  i  wyr  am  i  medd-dod  ...        i 

sm  y  gwyr  aeth  ir  perthi  na  ddelon  fyth  ir  parthe 

Owen  Uoyd  o  Eglwysvach 

108   Odl  i  Nihlas  Hookes  niah  yfienga  NiMas  Hookes  o 
gonwy  B.A,  i  ofynffonn  l638 
Niklas  mab  K'iklas  mab  ner  i  foddion     ....  h 

Niklas  mab  Niklas  mab  ner  Morys  Parry  lieu 

111   Maricnad  M"  Ellisabeth  JLoyd  graig  M'  Sion  Slodart 
o  Fodidda     Mawrlh  I  .  16/^0 
Kwyn  yn  gwlad  briwiad  yn  bro     ....  / 

Dvw  a  ro  had  da  ar  /  i  /  hoi  Watkyn  hlywedog 

116  When  Phebus  had  drest  himself  to  the  west     ,     .     .     .      m 
Oh  kill  me  kill  me  once  againe,  for  ^  am  prepared  to  die. 

b.       Nid  kowetli  mawr  ond  gwir  ffyddlondeb  n 

heb  fodlonrwjdd  nid  kytvndeb 
heb  gytvndeb  nid  syt  dynion 
heb  dvw  heb  ddim  dvw  a  digon  Anon 

117  fy  modryb  wen  dirion  ych  kystydd  sydd  gaeth  ....        o 
Am  gerlyn  ni  ofynir  pen  ddelo  fo  ir  dre  „ 

b,  Yr  hayl  tra  arayl  er  a  drilio  bylh  fo  aed  beth  heb  wario  p 
Os  kyliydd  a  fydd  fo  ef  a  gyll  gwnayd  ore  a  gallo   Anon 

c.  Tfed  ag  yfed  goig  awen  ddiffrwvth  a  ddefry  bob  kyuneu  &c.    </' 

118  Ow  yngwir  galon  ovv,  ow,  ow,     ....  r 
ai  ymadel  ai  kymodi./                                                    Anon 


RHYS   JONES'S   GREEN  BOOIf.  259 

119  glew  filwr  dialwr  dvlvn  sion  salbri  &c.  Anon     a 

120  Eisie  kap  fy  anap  fv  gael  anwyd     ....  b 
yw  hyn  o  gerdd  am  lien  gap./                        Moysijs  Poicel 

h.       Mae  ordor  sor  am  sercli  ag  anair  &c.  c 

c.  digiain  mil  wyth  mi]  /  o  /  waith  maiii  gliesion  &c.  tl 

d.  A  oes  <>n  dyn  j  n  j  y  byd  a  feder  ddoedyd  /  i  /  mi  e 
par  Vn  fwya  /  o/  ran  sercli  ai  mab  a  merch  sy  /n/  liaru, 

e.  honn  sydd  raid  i  mi  beriodi  &c.  / 

121  Mae  ya  rhef  Conway  wyre  bonethigion     ....  (/ 
fo  all  jj  I  gore  oddiarno  dripio                                     Anon 

b.       Os  bodlon  dynion  am  advvaynen  am  fod     ....  h 

mewn  gwall  /  i  /  myn  /  i  /  golli  Rtitlier  Roberts  Clr  j 

122  Medical  recipe  in  English 

b,       yfwch  a  byddwcli  wbodol  &c.  Anon   I 


MS.  163.  The  Green  Book,  or  the  Poetical  Wouks  of  Rhys 
Jones  of  Tyddyn  Mawr,  and  the  Historia  of  Taliessin,  from  tlic  Cors 
y  Gedol  Library.  Paper;  12;^x  7|  inclies  ;  2G5  pages  ;  bound  in  green 
vellum;  -wrilten  by  the  poet's  "own  hand  on  both  sides  of  17G4." 
Published  with  the  title  "  Gwaith  Prydyddawl  y  diweddar  Rice  Jones 
o'r  Blaenau,  Meirion."  Gan  Eice  Jones  Owen,  wyr  yr  Awdur. 
(Dolgelleu:  argraphwyd  gan  E.  Richards  .  1818.) 

i.  Signature  of  "  W™  Vaughan  1764." 
ii.,  vii.,  Yiii.,  x.,  213-15,  213-65  are  blank. 
iii,-vi.  Table  of  Contents. 

ix.  Y  ILyfr  Gwyrdd  pa  un  sy'n  cynnwys  Aicdlen,  Cyictjddau, 
Englynion  a  Cherddi  ;  Yti  anrheg  i'r  godidawg  a'r  dilediaitli  Gymro 
Gicilym  Fychan  o  Gors  y  Gedol  a  Nannaii  Vsg'  Seneddicr  a 
Chornor  y  Militia  swydd  Feirion  ;  a  Phenn  JLywydd  Cymdeithas  y 
Cymmrodorion  yn  ILundain. 

0  waith  Rhys  Jones  o'r  Tyddyn  Maicr  yn  y  Brynn  Coch,  o  Blwyf 
TLann  Fachreth  ;  yn  Ysgrifennedicj  a'i  Law  ei  hun,o  bohtu  Blwydd 
yr  Arylwydd  1161,. 

Duw  Tad  HoU  AUuog,  a  roddo  i  chwi  Icchyd  a  hir  hoedl,  ac  a  Iwyddo  y  feddoch 
oil,  ac  oil  y  feddoch. 

1  Marwnad  Sion  Rhydderch  y  Sywedydd 

Trees  Duw  Adwyth  trist  wedi     ....  k 

I  fyw,  gyda  Duw  ei  Dad 

5       A  mi'n  hwyr  ym  minion  Ha'     ....  / 

Wr  djras  yr  Aderyn 

8       T  Gannaid  ddoeth  ddigynnwr  &c.  m 

b.  Priodas  Dafydd  Gwyn  o  Daliaris.     See  MS.  165,  p.  303. 

Hawdd  ammor  i'r  tymmor  teg     ....  it 

A  Thangnef,  a  Nef,  yn  61 
12  Cywydd  i  Gwilym  Fychan   M.P.  I  erclii  2  drodfedd 
dros  Ifan  Sion  y  Teller 
Y  pavm  enwog  penn  Ynys     ....  " 

A  chjnnydd  Nef,  eich  Enaid 

E  2 


260  MOSTYN   MAXUSCKIPT    163. 

15  Genetli  gi'onn,  dduon,  ddwyael     ....  a 
Moi  Gwefus,  mwy  om  gafacl 

16  Dyriau  dros  Robt:  Howel  Sion  i  Grds  ei  jGariad 

DJ^ii  wyf  fi,  sy'n  tramwy  beunydd     ....  h 

gyda  Gras,  mi  af  i'r  Gwely 

18  Marwnad  Robt:  Gryffijdd  o  JJann  y  Biclch  1~i50 

Duw  a  droes  gur  du  dros  garit     ....  e 

a  ILwyddianD,  well  well  iddyn 

22  3Iar:  Mrs:  Sydney  Prys,  gw:  Ho:  Fychan  o'r  Hengwrt  1152 
Pa  ofid  svvrth,  pa  f_^d  sydd  ...  d 

Ddaioni  y  ddwy   Ynys 

27  Awdl  Deicyn  yr  Adarn-r 

Deicyn,  cyw  melyu  cymmalog     ...  e 

Poen  i  filiwnau  paun  fileiniodd 

30  Cywydd  i  ofyn  Deriven  i  G.  Fychan,  M.P. 

Y  Marchog  arddeichog  ddawa     ....  f 
Awch  dilys  yn  ych  Dalaith 

35  Eng"  i'r  Wlagen  arian  a  ehcir  yn  yyffredin  y  Fuwcli 
Wenn  o  Nannaii 
Bnwch  Eymmus,  hwylus,  at  gynheiliaeth     ....  g 

Ni  bu  Buwch,  gann  neb  o'i  bath 

37  Marwnad  Morris  TViliam  o  Geimarch 

Gwele  berwyl  gwlybyrawg     ....  h 

I'r  ail  063,  arf  61  lesu 

40  Cowydd  i  Howel  Lewis  dr  Helygog  I  ofyn  Berfa  drol 

Y  Iiwdn  doeth  llydan  ei  dir     .     .     .     .  i 
Clyw,  clyvv,  tra  bwy  byw  'n  y  bj^d 

44       Y  Wenithen  wenn  etliol     ....  Jt 

Yn  dawel  ymwel,  a  mi 

47  Dyr'iau  Ofer :  Dyn  wyf  fi  a  fwriodd  lawer     ....  I 

Torri  gweigion  Gnau  sydd  ofer 

50  Dyr'iau  dros  ihr  Ifangc  i'w  Gariad 

Dyn  wyf  fi  o  Iwynau  Gomer     ....  m 

Eitha  craff  gael  gafael  arno 

64       'Rwy  'n  cwynfan  mewn  ILann  a  ILys  &c.  n 

55   Cerdd  y  Dant  Cribin  neii  Gwynfan  Gwraig 

Geuethod  gwynnion  aetlius     ....  o 

I'w  goryn  du  Myun  Di.awl 

57  Englyn  Dedwydd  a  Dedwydden 

Dedwydd,  rwydd  gelwydd,  Golwyn     ....  p 

Gattwo  'n  un  Guto,  a  Nel 

60  JFlangcll  Ysgorpionog  i'r  Met/wdistiaid 

Cerddodd,  ni  pheidiodd  gau  Brophwydi  Baal     .     .     .     ,     q 
Gann  eu  Twyll  i  eigion  Tan 

62  Mae'n  Naonau  seigiau  gwresogion  &c.  r 

63  /  Hugh  Fychan  o'r  Hengwrt,  Siryf  Meirion  1 152 

Yx  Hydd  dofaidd  hardd  dyfiad     ....  s 

fodd  enwog  ei  Feddianaii 

66  Mar:  TV.  Wynn,  Person  TL.  Gynhafal  a  Mynafon  1l60 

Dwys  arwyl  Duw  a  sorrodd     ....  t 

I  Dduw  anwyl  ai  ddoniau 


/ 


RHYS   JONES'S   GREEN   BOOK.  2f)l 

71   Munciad  Leivys  Dafydd  or  Goeiref  a  Bronn  Wion 

Eiifeiriaiit  hyll  a  fwriodd     ....  „ 

I  LJ's  Duw,  aeth  Lewys  deg 

75   Carol  i'w  ganu  y  Plygain  ddydd  Nadolig 

Pob  d^n  y  fedd  deimlad  a  chalon  dychweled     ....     6 
Diolchwn  na  chwynwn  ychwaneg 

77   Y Farn:  Oh!  Dduw  swynn,  feddyg  Enaid     ....  c 

A  Nef  i  mi,  Naf    Amen. 

84  Annerch  ir  Parch:  Ifan  Ifans  offeiriad  JLann  uwch  y 
Jl.yrM,  ag  i  ddyfalu  y  ddau  Gioppan  Arian  Mater 
Goreuraid  yr  Hengiort  y  rhai  a  gyfemvyd  Syrr 
Simon  a  Syrr  Sion 

Tfan  weddol,  fwyn  addns,  Perl  addysg     ....  d 

Syrr  Sion  yw  flynuon  i'y  ff^^dd,  Aur  Simmwr 

A  Syri'  Simon  beunydd     .... 

Didwyll  Gefeilliaid  ydynt 

Dau  loyw  deg,  diwaelod  ynt     .... 

A  chynnydd  i'w  perchennog 

89  Moliant  Catrin  unig  ferch  Roht:  Fychan  Humphreys  o 
Gaer  Ynwch  ar  fesiir  "  Buckle  two  " 
DeuTvcli  Awenyddau  /  Yn  glau  ir  golau  eu  gyd     .     .  e 

Geill  hwnnw  ganu  yn  ei  wely/A  gafFo  feddu'r  Fun 

92       Y  Gannaid  Euraid  iraidd     .... 
Tyrd  Law  yn  ILaw  ir  ILann 

95  Cyicydd  i  Sion  Grustal  Garddwr  Cars  y  Gedol 
Mae  Iroi  Gwefl,  ni  bu  mefl  mwy  .... 
Sian  Grestog,  a  Sion  Grustal 

99  Englynion  i  Ddafydd  Elis  o  Ddolgellau 
Dafydd,  o  gynnydd,  Gwanas     .... 
Genwair  hardd  i  fardd  ag  oferddyn  Koist     .... 
A  Benditli  i  blith  dy  Blant 

100  Englynion  i  Edward  Sawdwr  a  ddalwyd  mewn  Gwely  SfC. 
Mewn  gaflach  Wits  mae  yn  gyflwr  &c.  &c. 

102  Cywydd  i  Sior  Tywysog  Cyniru,  mab  Sim-  ill. 
Fy  Awen  gu  fwyn  ei  gwaith     .... 
Ym  mhlaid,  y  Brutaniaid  hen 

104  Englyn  i  ddiolch  am  Hivrdd,  tros  Sion  Dafydd  o'r 
Benglog  I  Robert  Puw,  o  Riw  Ogof 
Gwr  llonn,  a  moddion,  meddal,  Trugarog     .... 
Cr5>g  yw  ei  dwrw,  a'r  Oreigiau  a  dorrodd 

107  Mar:  Mrs:  Sian  Poole,  imig  ferch  y parch:  Mr:  Anthony 
Poole,  o  Gae  Nest,  a  Pherson  Mallwyd  1162 
Gwae  !  fachludd,  tann  ludd,  tynn  Laid     .... 
ffarwel  Sian,  a  plierl  y  sir 

111  Bedd  argraff  Gr:  mab  Dd:  Gr:  o  Ynys  Gwrtheiyrn 
Trafaelais  trwy  orfoledd,  yr  India     .... 
]Lwch  Eaddwjn  llechai  ynddo 

b.  Avail  I  chivaer  y  gtvr  uchod 

Yma  *n  huno,  mae  un  wenn  hynawd     .     . 
A  cWai,  lie  bu  Mwtlai  man 


282  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   163. 

112  Marwnad  Edwart  Williams  o  Benniarth  1^62 

Doe  y  iLoddodd  Duw  'r  Heddwcli     ....  a 

Da  wladvvr  Duwiol  ydoedd 

A  thawel  fel  Angel  oedd : 

Ni  bu  lid  iia  gwrid  na  gwres 

Anfwynaidd,  yn  ei  Fynwes 

Na  Dig,  na  E.h6cb,  Br6ch,  na  Braw 

Na  Thwrn,  ammherffaith  arnaw 

Ni  wnai  Wiliams  aiiwylyd 

WJ^ro  Barn,  er  aur  y  Byd : 

Cyfiawnder  ei  Tanner  fu 

Forth  Ehad,  yn  pur  weithredu     .... 

Draw  i  Nef  yn  dii-ion  ^t 

118  Awdl  y  JLoi  Gieynnion  o  Nannmi 

ILoi  gwerog,  merog,  mawrion     ....  b 

ILoi  yn  digoui  holl  weiniaid  Gwynedd 

120  Englyn  i  Fuwch  Goch  y  Councellor  Wiliams  a  ehcir  yn 
gyffredin  Mwynen  Goch  o  Arfon  115!). 
Buwch  grotliog,  donog,  dirion;  un  detbog     ....  <r 

Oed  gwaedog  a'i  Wenn  gydwedd 

122  J  "  Gastell  Harlech"  seflLong  newydd  W.  Fychan  M.P. 
Castell,  canu  tunell,  cant  ynod  hirlwydd     ....  d 

Bwrw  mae  Fvvg,  or  Bermo  i  Fon     Cf.  MS.  16b,p.  231. 

12.3       Y  Uoer  ddoetb  lliw  y  wawr  Ddydd     ....  e 

A'i  marw,  yn  ddi  ymeiriach 

126  Cywydd  i  Dd:  ah  lago  o  Dal  y  Waun 

Doe'r  Bore  diwair  berwyl     ....  f 

Bydd  w^cb  byd  y  b^cb  yn  b6d 

131  Aivdl  ar  enedigaeth  Aer  yn  Nannau  1^6^ 

Croesaw  Ian,  Maban  y  mawl,  cu  Eosyn     ....  g 

Cawn  gysgodiad  /  Ebag  trallodiad  / 
Mwyn  barodiad/mae'n  bwriadu 

138  Cywydd  i  erchi  Gwnn  gan  Wm:  TLwyd  o  Riwedog  1T6^ 

Y  ILwyd  Eryr  lied  araf    ....  h 

Hir  gynnyrch  i  lor  Gwynedd 

141  Marwnad  John  Nannau  o  Faes  y  Pandy  116!^ 

I  Dal  y  ILynn  dychryn  doeth     ....  v 

Priododd  wlad  Paradwys 

148  Marwnad  Wm:  Jones  o'r  Orsedd  Lds  1~l6^ 

Clywcb  uchel  nad  brad  beb  rus     ....  h 

Yn  dal  i  Enaid   Wiliam 
152  Atvdljoliant  i  W.  Fychan  M.P.  ^c.  1T6/f 

Ebof  lamm,  at  Wiliam  ir  Twr  gwyn  Nannau     .     .     .     .     I 

Drwy  wyrtb  ysbys  da  I&r  -wrth  Osbion 

156  Englyn  i  Edwart  Hudol  ger  Maenol  Hafhesh  SfC. 

Hir  Lwyddiant  tycciant  tecca,  wiw  adail     ....  m 

Yn  eicb  henaint  a  chynnydd 

158  Awdl  Dduchan  i  Sion  Grustal  116//. 

Sionyn  hen  adyn  hynodawl     ....  « 

Wyll  pydredig  /  aurheitbiedig  / 
A  braenedig  /  laraw  newidiol 


EHrS   JONES'S   GEEEN   BOOK.  263 

163  /  ercUj^on  Gollen  I  Domas  Dafydd  o  Benn  y  Tigi  7765 

Tomas,  cu  fwynwas,  cyfaunedd  &o.  ^ 

165  I  Buw  Bodilen  am  oganu  Meirion 

Y  ffyrnig  dd^n  Uffernawl,  gwag  Bnaid     ....  b 
Baw  i  deulu  Bodilen 

1G6  I  Huw  Fychan  o'r  Hengwrt  i  erchi  Maran  Coch  1t63 

Huw  Fychan  laa,  ei  waneg     ....  c 

A  Eiwyddiant  well  well  iddo 

168  I Fibth  Newydd  Mrs:  Gwynn  o  Nannau  1^65 

Gwnaed  wrth  Nannau  glau  fawr  glyd     ....  d 

Amen  i  berchen  y  B\Vth 

169  Pr  Bont  newydd  ar  Wy union  1165 

Gwyrdd  Ogof,  tros  y  gwyrdd  eigion  ILangiws    .     .     .     .    e 
Haner  ILeuad  safadwy     .... 
A  llyfodd  yr  holl  afon 

172  Marwnad  Lewis  Morris  0  Bennbryn  1165 

Och  !  oer  yw  sain  echrys  hynt     ....  / 

Nid  oes  obaith  dwys  ebwch 

Braidd  wellb&d,  o  Bridd  a  ILwch     .... 

Balch  yw  Mon  o'i  meibion  mawr !     .     .     .     . 

Trig  pennaeth  gwybodaeth  byd 

177  Pennillion  iu>  canu  yn  y  TLoerig  Gymdeithas  yn  Nhafarn 
Dribs  y  Nant 
Deuwn  Frodyr  difyr  dyjfiad     ....  g 

O  naws  dewrder  Nos  a  Dydd 

181  Etta:  Nyni  Loerigion  fwynion  ynfydion     ....  h 

Yn  llawen  yr  un  llwf. 

182  Cowydd  i  ymddiffyn  y  TLoerig  Gymdeithas  mewn  atteb- 

iad  i  Robt:    Wiliam  0  Blwyf  ILann  Gywer  1T65 
Dwyre,  Euterpia  dirion     ....  j 

Melbodistiaid*  haid  di  hedd     .... 

Y  bo'r  mawl  ewybr  Amen 

188  /'}•  Hoccsied  Fir  fawr  a  elwir  Tiberiws  ynghors  y  gedol 

Celwrn  Bir,  cywir  Brecciaidd  tirion  &c.  ]i 

189  C.  jDmWmi  ^765.-Rhodiais  lie  nid  oedd  Ehedyn     .     .     .     .     / 

Yn  cyrraedd  DyiFryn  Cariad 

193   Y  Breuddwyd :  Mae  geueth  w^^cb  0  lendid     ....  m 

Feth  moel  yw  ILong  beb  Hwylbren. 

196       Y  Doer  euraid  lliw'r  Aeron,   Glain  y  mawl     ....         n 
Hwyr  ddarparu  |  edifarn  | 
O  ddwys  gani  |  adilas  Goron. 

199  Bwc  a  Bel :  Gwir  f wyniant  gyrraf  annerch  yn  ddiwyd   .  .   .  .    o 
Byw  trwy  bwyll,  boed  bir  y  b6ch 

202  Eng'*  y  Gist  Goch,  sef  Gr:  Williams  o  Gae  Goronioy  17  66 

Mae  Gryffydd  ddefnydd  ddiofnus  Wiliams     ....  p 

A'ch  Gywely'n,  iach  galon 

205   Cywydd  priodas  y  Capten  Gwynn  1^66 

Af  ar  brangc  di  drangc  o'm  drws     ....  q 

Beitbyn  tynn,  b^tb  ond  henaint 


*  This  Cywydd  contains  a  savage  attack  on  Welsh  Calvinistic  Mctliodism. 


2t)4  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   163. 

209    Crocsaiv  adre  o'r  India  ir  Capten  lihisiart   Garnons  or 
Rhiw  Goch  1-]66 
Oes  un  Awen  heb  hunaw 
Foddus  or  soniarus  naw     .... 
Cann  coron  i'r  Cwncwerwr 


216   Ystori  ynghylch  Taliessin 

G\vr  bonheddig  oedd  gynt  ymhenllynn  a  elwid  Tegit  Foel  .... 
ends:  ac  yn  61  hynny  y  gwnaeth  y  m^p  Ddyhuddiant  Elphin,  a 
Moliant ;  ac  y  prophwydodd  urddas  i  Elphin 

221  Elphin  dec  taw  ath  wylo     ....  b 
Ni  ddichon  neb  dy  orfod 

222  Y  gerdd    uchod    honn     oedd    y    gyntaf  a  ganodd   Taliessin 

Ac  yno  y  gofynodd  Gwyddno  Geranir  iddo ;  beth  oedd 

fo,  ai  DJin,  ai  Ysbryt .'  Ac  yno  y  canodd  ynteu  yr  hanes  sy'n  canlyn 

Prif  Fardd  cyfliedin  /  wyf  fi  i  Elphin     ....  c 

Ni  wyddis  beth  yw  Nghnawd,  ai  Cig  ai  pysgawd. 

224  Pedetrin  a  wnaf,  ac  i'r  porth  y  deuaf     ....  d 
Poet  hir  ddialedd  ar  Faelgwyn  Gwynodd 

225  Ac  yno  i  bu  Taliessin  o  hynny  onid  oedd  13  oed  .  .  .  Ac  o 
hynny  allan  y  gehvid  er  Taliessin  benn  Beirdd. 

226  Goganwawd  gyrru,  a  gwawd  difyrru     ....  e 
A  ollwng  Elphiu,  o'i  hiial  eurin 

227  Culfardd  ceisio  yr  wyf     ....  / 
O'r  Hiial  Eurin 

228  Myfi  sydd  Ddewin     ....  g 
A'r  Faelgwyn  Gwynedd 

229  Nid  hwy  y  daith  er  gwrando  'r  ofEeren     ....  h 
Yngwydd  y  Drindod,  a  Uu  Luwsiffer 

230  Na  fid  efgud  dy  Law  i  Iwf  Anudon     ....  i 
Na  ymddiricd  i'th  fyw,  ond  i  Dduw  ai  ddisgyblion 

231  Bencdico  Dominus  drwy  nerth  lesu  fab  Alpha     ...       h 
Pen  Teyrn  Teyrngedd  dy  drugaredd  a  archa 

232  Pann  gotto  main  Gwynedd  o'u  gorweddfa     ....  I 
Ag  o  hynny  allan  Saison  a  ddiflana 

233  Gonichel  Dduw  golochir  ymhobfa     ....  m 
Pwy  ond  cyfrwys  a'u  cyfrifa 

237       Gwae !  a  gyrcmerth  bedydd     ....  n 

Anwyd,  ac  Eiry,  ac  IS, 

240  Cyntaf  ymluniws,  ar  lun  d$^n  glwys     ....  o 
(jerllaw  hen  Garthen  Cyniaglwys 

241  Fe  ddaw  b.^d,  a  chr^d,  a  chri  p 
Oni  bydd  i'r  Daroganwr  ar  i  stopio  hi                   Taliessin 


CERB   ROBIN   BU   O   FON.  205 

MS.  164.  "  Cerdd  IIhobin  ab  Huw  a  elwir  ym  mhlith  y  Beirdd 
Rhobin  Ddu  o  Fan,  wedi  ei  'sgrifennu  ai  Law  ei  hun  wrtb  ercbiad 
William  Fychaii  Esq:  Peullywydd  ijr  Anrhydeddus  Gijmdeithas  o 
Gymmrodorion  1772."  Paper;  12^  x  7|  inches;  72  pnges  and  47 
blank  leaves  ;  bound  in  green  vellum.  From  the  "  Cors-y-Gedol  Library." 

1  Moliant  Wmffre  Thomas .  "  Yn  13  oed  i  cyfansoddivyd  " 

Prydyddion  mewn  pryd  addas     ....  a 

Ai  blant  ar  dyfiant  bob  dydd 

2  Moliant  Sion  Or:  Lewis  mab  Wm:  Lewis  o  Landdyfnan 

Y  diddig  Ian  Brydyddion     ....  b 

Wrol  Fab  yn  yr  ail  Fyd 

5  Maricnad  Huiv  ap  Hum*  (  Y  Bardd  Coch  o  Fon)  ir 
hwn  y  cejais  yr  anrhydedd  a  fod  yn  ddisgybl 
Clycbau  Gwynedd  clywcli  Gwynion     ....  c 

Lawenydd  dedwydd  ein  dau 

10  Dos  lythyr  yn  bybyr  i  ben  y  Siwrnai  &e.  d 

b.  Taw  firsen  goegen  gegog  ;  taw  Huran  &c.  e 

c.  Y  dyn  o  'mofyn  a  mi ;  am  Englyn  &c.  f 

11  Englyn  i  Robt:  Jones  Fardd  ac  Yscolydd 

Bob  tro  ith  gofio  ath  gyfarch  ;  yr  wyf  &c.  g 

b.      Gair  anneroh  o  sereb  ysydd ;  ir  Athraw     ....  h 

Ond  dewr  d'atteb  tyr'd  etto 

12  ILyma  \\'ynt  oerwynt  erwin ;  anwydog  &c.  i 

b.  Ffyddlon  yw'r  galon  gweli,  fwyn  Sereu  &c.  k 

c.  Ir^tcst :  Pren  eas  anaddas  ini ;  &c.  I 

d.  Gas  daitb  dra  oerfaith  drwy  Arfon ;  &c.  m 

13  MI  dybiaia  coeliais  mai  Calan,  lonawr  &c.  n 

b.  Fy  Ngheidwad  Dduw  tad  wyt  ti;  &c.  o 

c.  Wrth  chwylio  'n  grafi  a  gaffo;  ddynan  &c.  « 

d.  Na  chwenych  fun  wych  fain  wedd,  &c.  g 

14  Duw  nefol  orseddol  Sant     ....  r 
dyddiau  tawel  fel  a  fu 

b.  Annerch  i  mi  gan  y  Bardd  Coch 

Ith  annerch  mewn  jfaith  union  &c.  B.  Coch.   s 

O  12  hyd  yn  15  oedy  canfansoddais  y  Caniiau  aethant  heibio. 
Yma  y  canlyn  swrn  om  Gwaitb  O'n  15  hyd  yn  18  oed. 

15  C  a  gant  Gwilym  ab  Givilym  o  Drefdraeth  im  hannerch 

Yr  ifanc  fardd  oreufawr     ....  t 

Gwiw  bleser,  Mwynder  Amen  G,  ab  G. 

18  Atteb :  Y  Gwr  ifaugc  arafwych     ....  u 

A  harddwch  nef  ai  burddas 

21   Cywydd  annerch  Mr:  Efan  TLieyd  o  Faes  y  Porth 

Y  Carw  enwog  cu  rinwedd     ....  v 

Deled  Hedd  yn  dal  iti 

23  Molawd  Mon :  Dwyre  fy  Ngwenydd  dirion     ....  le 

Wedi  cael  madael  a  Mon 

*  Y  Bardd  hwn  a  ddigwyddodd  gael  Clefyd  trwm  ac  fe  ddywedwyd  iddo  farw 
.  .  .  .  ac  yn  ebrwydd  y  cyfansoddaia  y  Cywydd  [uchcd]  ;  eithr  erbyn  ei  orphen 

mi  glywais  fod  y  Bardd  yn   fyw yn   y    15fed  Flwyddyn   om   hoedran   y 

cyfansoddais  y  Cywydd. 


266  MOSTTN   MANUSCRIPT   164 

25    V  Byd :  Pand  rhyfedd  oedd  Arfeddyd     ....  a 

(Ai-  ol  y  Farn)  yn  'ail  Fyd 

28  Clywais  a  synnais  i,  ryw  wrthun  &c.  b 

b.  TraEferthus  barua  fu'r  Byd  &c.  c 

c.  Duw  Sant  er  mwyniaut  imi,  dwg  fenaid  &c.  d 

d.  Gormod  o  ddiod  i  ddyn,  Nid  buddiol     ....  e 
Pallu  a  wna  Pwyll  a  Nerth 

29  Blinder  im  hamser  o  hyd     ....  f 
Myned  un  ffordd  a  Minnau 

h.      Cais  egor  y  dddr  fy  mun  dda  &c.  g 

c.       Was  da  rol  a'th  ddistrewlwch  &c.  h 

30  Duw  o'th  annedd  brudweddawl     ....  i 
b.  Dau  Englyn  i  Ferch  am  Fremian  ^c.  k 

31  Cyffes  y  Serclwgioas 

Fy  boll  Gymdeithion  purion  parod     ....  I 

Yn  barod  hyd  y  Bedd 

Y  Canuau  nesaf  a  wnais  o'n  18  hyd  yn  21  oed 
33   Cowydd  Cydchwedl  rhwng  y  Bardd  ar  Garddwr  sef 
Wm:  Morris  o  Gaergyhi 
Croesaw  fardd  gan  y  Garddwr     ....  m 

Heb  wad  cyn  yr  ymadael 
Yma'n  rbwydd  y  mwynwr  hael 
O  fawr  ged  ffafor  a  gi,f     .     .     , 
dy  Delyn  Ledr*  ag  edrych     .... 
Na  cbeinaob  yn  ei  chanol 

41  Myfyrdawd  y  Bardd  am  ei   Gariad  aethai  i  Ynys 
Manaio  1163 
Galar  or  Cwrr  bwy  gilydd     ....  rt 

Liw'r  manod,  yn  dod  i  dir 

44  Cerdd  i  Ferch  ar  "  Nansi  Dawson  " 

Och  !  fi  ba  betb  yw  liyn  o  fyd     ....  o 

F'anwylyd  yw  fy  Neli. 
46  Pnodasgerdd  Abel  Fyclian  y  Cigydd  o  Lansannan  — 
ar  "  Noble  Race  of  Siencyn  " 

Pob  glan  wr  ifangc  tawel     ....  p 

Yn  Abel  Gwr  i   Gadi 

48  Dear  Chloe  come  give  me  sweet  lusses 

O  Meirian  dod  imi  gusanau     ....  o 

Fodlonir  a  chydig  3'a  wir 

49  Busy  curious  thirsty  Fly 

Sycbedig  Bryfyn  mwth  wyt  ti     .     .     .     .  r 

Ni  weli  monynt  bwy  nag  un 

50  Dyhuddiant  y  Carwr  gwrthodedig 

Er  bod  rhai  yn  taeru  'n  galed     ....  s- 

Ond  ymolchi  mewn  Pwll  budr 

61   Cyffes  y  Carwr  qfiaethus]  ar  "  Saiodl  Buwch  " 

Y  ILaugciau  iifiaethus     ....  t 

Yn  gyfion  imi  a  ga' 

*  "  Y  Delyn  Ledr  ydoedd  Lyfr  o  Gasgliad  gwerthfawr  0  hen  Ganiadau  Tvedi  ei 
ysffrifenu  ar  Femrwn  gan  Mr.  W.  Morris." 
f  "  Yd  18  oed  y  gwnais  y  Gerdd  hou." 


CEllR   ROBIN    SU   O    FON.  267 

55   Caniad  1/r  Amser  :  ar  Jesur  Bi/rr  Dud  Andaw 

Y  rhai  sy'  ar  liyd  y  Byd  yn  bod     ....  « 

Y  derfydd  am  yr  Amser 

59   Carol  JPlt/ffain  ijO^ 

Cymaiorth  Duw  i  draethu  o'm  genau     ....  b 

Yn  gysurus  yn  y  Diwedd 

GG  Englyn  a  gant  Michael  Evans  o  LannerchymeJd  hnn 
lettyfais  gydag  ef 

Y  pur  Gysgadur  cais  godi ;  y  Bardd  &c.  c 

67  Atteh :  Ba  froliivr  heriwr  fal  hyri     ....  d 

Gan  ddyrnod,  ai  gwna'n  ddarnaii 

6.      Mi  fum  a'm  bwriad  am  fercli,  jn  iefangc     ....  e 

Ai'n  curio  fyth  y  cair  fi  ? 

68  Englyn  i  ofyn    Coron  gan  yr  Arglwyddes  Stanley  i 

brynii  Tannau  i  Sion  Telyniwr  y  Gwyneddigion 
Mawr  yw  Cwynion  Sion  cr's  ennyd     ....  y 

Ehyd  y  Sir  yn  rbodio  Sion 

69  J  Rywiin :  Bydd  cant  a  feiant  ar  f'ol,  er  adwyth  ...  g 

Gwrysiaf  ac  ymdrecbaf  dro 

70  Englyn  i  Borllnoas  Porth  Aetliwy 

Dois  eisoes  o  wlad  Saeson,  a  doethym  (te.  h 

b.  Er  cymmaint  ei  braint  ai  bri  yw  ILundain  &e.  i 

c.  J  Fieliael  Evans  o  Lannerchymedd  ban  oedd  afiachus 

'Rhwn  biau  rhannu  bywyd,  i  ddynion  &c.  k 

71  Y  Cymmrodorion  doetbion  dethol     ....  I 
Ai  bwriad  tyner,  or  Bryttaniaid 

b.  Bedd  Argraff  Michael  Evans 

Corph  Micbael  yn  wael  ei  wedd  m 

Wr  dawnus 
A  roed  danaf  i  orwedd 
Trist  gweled  weithian  ei  Annedd 
Oerddu 
(ILon  Iwrcb  a  fu) 
A  ILannerch-ei-fedd 


MS.  165.  Cywybeu  relating  for  tbe  most  part  to  tbe  families  of 
Nannaii  and  Cors  y  Gedol,  Histoey  op  the  Gwydir  Family,  &c. 
Paper  ;  12^  x  7  finches;  pages  i.-x.,  1-498  ;  bound  in  leather.  Pages  1- 
184,  and  197-213  were  transcribed  circa  1690  by  "  John  Davies,  com- 
monly called  John  David  Laes  [see  MS.  130],  a  family- poet  at 
Nannau"  (pp.  iii.  and  497) ;  pages  217-32,289-95  are  in  the  auto- 
graph of  Eev.  W™  Wynn  who  died  1760  (p.  295)  ;  pp.  i.-viii.  and 
497-98  are  in  the  hand  of  Lewis  Morris  of  Anglesey ;  and  the  rest  of 
the  MS.  seems  to  belong  to  the  first  quarter  of  the  xviiith  century. 
Pages  1-6  are  torn  at  the  upper  inside  corners.  The  book  plate  of 
"  William  Vaughan  Oorsygedol"  as  well  as  his  signature,  dated  "Feb: 
1737-8,'.'  is  on  inside  of  front  cover. 

Pages  i.,  ii.,   iv.,  ix.,  X.,   7-8,  33-40,  117-20,    185-6,   191-6,  221,. 
405-81,  and  488-96  are  blank. 


268  MOSTyN  MANUSCRIPT   165. 

ii).  Title  page — Cywyddeu  Cymraeg  &c. 

v.-viii.  A  Table  of  Contents,  giving  the  first  line,  the  subject,  the 
writer's  name,  and  the  page. 

1   Cowydd  i  Howell  ap  Meirig  Uauglian  ap  Ynyr  Ua^^  a 
Meirig  lloyd  ei  fraivd  o  Nannau  ^c. 

O  dduw  a'i  pechod  i  ddyn     ....  a 

Nid  un  o'r  Gler  ofer  wyf     .... 

Adar*  llwch  gwin  ym  ydynt     .... 

Can  gan  eu  Prydydd  dydd  da    Gr:  TLwyd  ap  dd:  ap  Ei" 
3   Cowydd  i  Feurig  Uaglian  a  davydd  ei  Fab 

Mawr  fii  Howel  a  Meirig    ....  h 

aed  i  farw  i  dai  Feirig  Gytto'r  Glynn 

5  Cowydd  i  ddiolch  i  Dd:  ap  Meirig  am  Farch 

Brou  draw  biaii  r  enw  a  drig     ....  c 

Drwy  'r  115^s  ai  dorau  ar  lied  (1. 60)  ||  „  „ 

9       T  mae  c6f  a  mi  ai  can  d 

mawr  gof  och  Meirig  LTaughan     .... 
ar  ddaii  sydd  urddas  iddun  „  „ 

10       Heiniar  adfydig  hoewnwyf    ....  'e 

deuddyn  na  bwi  h.^n.  na  hwynt    TIJn  goch  ap  Meirig  hen 

12  Marionad  ILeuccil  JLwyd 

ILyma  liaf  llwm  i  hoewfardd     ....        „  »       / 

a  chlickied  yn  iach  Leuckii 

14  Cywydd  i  Howell  ap  Dd:  ap  Meurig  alias  Hino  Nanney 

Mawr  fii  lithr  marfolaethau     ....  g 

Huvv  Nannau  oes  hwy  na  neb  Tudur  Aled 

16  Moliant  Gr:  Derwas  ap  Meurig  JLwyd  o  Nannail 

Mi  af  i  yfed  y  medd     ....  A 

a  duw  ni  wnaeth  dynion  well  Lewis  Glyn  Cothi 

17  Cywydd  Tudur  Uaghan  ap  Gr:  ap  Howell  ap  Gr:  Derwas 

ILwyth  ynyr  ai  w^r  iw  ol     .     .     .     .  i 

Cawn  d'euro  Cenau  Derwas         Jeuan  ap  Tudur  Penllyn  ' 

19  Owdl  foliant  i  Ruffydd  Nanney  I.  Esq" 

Bon  gwreiddiau  Nannau  uwch  Naint     ....  k 

Dyro  naw  einioes  i  Deyrn  Nannaii  William  TLyn 

21   Cywydd  i  Hugh  Nanney  o  Nannau 

Y  Preii  a  ro  Duw  'n  prynwr     ....  I 

h$>n  einioes  fo  i  Huw  Nannaii  JV''  LLyn 

23       Benidisiti  Dominus  vt  ^esu  fab  alffa     ....  m 

Dy  Drugaredd  a  archai  Taliesin 

25   Cywydd  i  geisio  gyrru  Rich:  Philip  o  Nanney 

Oes  diareb  ystyriais n 

hai  praw  'r  byd  hwy  peril  'r  bir  John  Philip 

P8  Atteh:  Y  Genfigen  gwan  fagiad     ....  o 

Ni  woeir  hynt  o  Nannaii  r  hawg  Richard  Phylip 

30  Cywydd  i  ofyn  newid  John  Philip  am  Rich:  ei  Frawd 

Wyf  gennad  af  ag  annerch     ....  p 

Ardudwy  rhaid  i  adel  ||  (1.  106) 


*  Vultures.    See  MS.  146,  p.  1  above. 


e 


IN    PEAISE   OF   H.    NANNEY,   ETC,  269 

3£arimadeu  Huw  Namiei/  afufarw  1623 
41       Aei-  Gruffydd  gemrydd  Qym'ro  rhinweddol     .  „ 

1  ddileu  tiistedd  ai  law  trosto  Richard  Philip 

43       Dyn  wyf  ar  draelli  dan  for  drud     ,  /, 

attad  i  Xefohvlad  fawr 

"  J) 

46       Mawr  nycli  yn  liir  Meirion  aotli     ....  <, 

Dyg  Duw  enaid  Huw  at  liwn  'K„gh  Uachno 

49       Dig  iw  'n  byd  o  gaii  un  bedd     ....  ^^ 

yn  fyw  gwn  i  Nef  gyniie.s  Griffith  Hafren 

52       Hir  beunydd  iw  rbyw  benyd     .... 

hyn  i  Enaid  Hugl.  Nannaii  Richard  Cynwal 

56       Breuddwyd  i  gant  brudded  gvvedd     ....  f 

i  hun  Enaid  Huw  Nannau  '     '     Sion  Cain 

59       Ddoe  i  bii  ddiweddii  byd     .... 

Un  a  fii  hael  Kef  i  Huw  James  Dimn 

62       Duw  a  -wnaetli  diau  ini     .     .     .     .  ^ 

ar  wyii  enaid  aor  Nannaii  Sion  Clawedog 

65       Mawr  yw  anap  Meirioiiydd     ....  j 

aur  brefi  a  ffynniant  ir  brig  Robert  Dyfi 

68  Marwnad  Amies  vi  Rys  Fychan  gwraig  H.  Nanney 

Wylo  'r  wyf  fyth  o  lawr  f'ais     ....  yj 

duw  ir  enaid  a  ranuodd  Richard  Philip  l621 

72  Englynion  gan  Roivland  Vaughan  o  Gaergai  i  daid  ai 

nainHuw  Nanney  ag  Annes  vi  Rys  Vawghan  1627 
Mil  chwechant  hen  want  oed  hynod     ....  / 

ag  aohreth  Clocb  Fachreth  fain  Row:  Vaughan 

73  Marwnad  i  Chiffydd  Nanney  l6og 

Arwydd  meth  a  roe  dduw  mawr     ....  ,;j 

dirion  enaid  aer  jSTannaii  Richard  Philip 

Cywyddeu  moliant  i'r  hen  Huw  Nanney 
76       d^'n  a  godo  Duw  'n  gadarn  ^ 

di  ddiwedd  fydd  hyd  ddydd  farn     .... 

Chweigeinoes  ywch  yw  gynnal  Rhys  Cain 

78       Pwy  iw  'r  dj^n  pur  diweniaitii     ....  o 

da  duw  iw  fath  d5>aid  fo*  John  Philip 

82       Gweiiwn  feirdd  a  gauo  fawl     ....  j, 

accw  yn  dy  stad  cawn  d'oes  di  Thomas  Penllyn 

Cywyddeu  moliant  Huw  Nanney  ap  Gr:  Nanney  ap  yr 
hen  Huw  Nanney  ag  ef  yn  Siryf  'l62~i. 
84       Duw  biaii  'r  byd  ai  biir  bwyll  q 

duw  a  edwyn  y  didwyll     .... 

duw  hyn  ynod  Huw  nannaii  Richard  Philip 

87       Yr  H5'dd  gwych  rhoddiog  uchel     ....  j- 

ichwi  'n  un  Walcli  0  Nannaii  1625     Sion  Cain 

90       Nodi  haelion  da  hylwydd     ....  s 

Cei  air  Huw  'mhob  cwrr  i  hon  'l62~     Gr:  Hafren 

93       Y  gwalch  aur  i  gylch  eirian     ....  t 

gader  hwn  in  cadw  yrhawg  \_162'1']    Hum:  ap  Howell 

*  ir  oedd  yr  heu  Lyfi'  wedi  torri  ag  nid  wneuthjm  ond  dyfahi  llawer  pennill 
yniwedd  y  Cywydd  hwn.     [J.  D.] 


270  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT    165. 

95  Esgusatod  Sion  Watgin  rhag  bod  yn  Gwmtabl 

Y  piii-  geidwad  por  gwaedawl  a 
pennaeth  y  fainf^k  pwy  nith  fawl     .... 

dair  oes  parch  dj  Wrsip  Huw  Wathin  Clywedog 

i)7  f  ofijn  March  a   phdr  o    ddillad    dros  Lewis    Gwyn 
Gethin  i  H.  Nanney  a  Lewis  Gwyn  o'r  Dolegwyn 

Y  ddaugar  foneddigaidd     ....  h 
Ni  chais  mwy  yn  achos  mawl                Rowland  Vaughan 

100  J  Hugh  Nanney  ag  Ellis  TLioyd  o  Rhiwgoch  i  ofyn 
march  dros  Hugh  Gryffydd  1615. 

Y  gwjT  yn  Saint  gwar  ynn  sydd  c 
Gyfion  dirion  Gefnderwydd     .... 

degoes  fo'th  dwyoes  eicli  dau  Richard  Philip 

102  Marwnad  Sion  ail  mnh  Gr:  Nanney  l632 

Ehwygwyd  brig  rhywiogwaed  braii     ....  d 

Yn  y  Ne  Sion  Nannau  sydd  „  „ 

Diey  fanvnad  i  Wiliatn,  trydydd  mdb  Gr:  Nanney  1636 
105       Hir  gwyuoch  awr  ag  ennyd     ....  e 

Nannau  awn  ninnau  iw  ol  John  Cain 

108       Bid  amur  y  byd  yiha     ....  /' 

dra  fo  ar  y  ddaiar  ddyn  Humphrey  ap  Howell 

1 10  Mar:  Elin  trydedd  merch  Huw  Nanney  hen  a  gwraig 
Jo^  Vaughan  o  Gaergai  161^ 
Aeth  llawn  adwyth  He  nodal     ....  g 

gael  Sion  fal  i  gvvelais  i  Richard  Philip 

113  Marwnad  Jo'^  Nanney  ap  Gr:  Nanney 

Gwae  lii  'r  Sir  gwyl  yr  oes  bon     ....  h 

Crist  Wynn  croesed  i  enaid  John  Cain 

115  Marwnad  Wiliam  mab  if  a  [sic]  Hugh  Nanney 

Ocb  !  w}»r  ystyriwch  eicb  oes     ....  i 

gwrol  ar  ei  heol  hi  ||   (i.  62) 

121  Mar:  Gr:  Nannau  ap  H.  Nannau  Hen — His  picture  is 

at  Nanney  painted  1632  aged  then  ^ — died  l653. 
[Och  faith  duw  graffvvailh  dug  Rufiydd]     ....  h 

II  Adwythig  yw  brig  a  bron  a  pheifedd     .... 
Ir  rhywiog  RufFydd  o'r  gwyr  boffion  Harry  Howell 

122  Moliant  Lewis  Gwyn  o'r  Dolegwyn 

Oed  y  graig  uwch  deugwr  allt     ....  I 

ai  dawn  a'i  drych  Duw  'n  dy  ran  Rhys  Caiu 

124:  j^  ofyn  milgi  llwyd  gan  John  Vaughan  o   Gaergai 
dros  Lewis  Gwyn  o'r  Dolegwyn 
Gweuaf  yt  hawdd  gofiwyd  hyn     ....  m 

doed  ith  gar  dy  odiaeth  gi  Rich:  Philip 

127  Marwnad  John  ILoyd  or  Rhiwgoch 

Och  !  dduw  hael  ddiwehUion     ....  n 

Y  Nef  a  fo  'n  i  afael  Rowland  Vaughan 

128  Marwnad  y  Frenhines  Elizabeth 

Trwm  a  fii  tree  yma  far     ...     .  o 

bo  yma  i  Siams  bum  oes  hydd  Richard  Philip 

131  Marwnad  y  twysog  Harry  mab  hynaf  James  I. 

Cri'n  galw  b^d  cronigl  o'i  ben     ....  p 

Coronog  cair  i  enaid  John  Philip 


IN  PRAISE  OF  GOES  Y  GEDOL  FAMILY,  ETO,       2'71 

134  Mar:  Charles  n. — ]Lwyn  oedd  gynt  llawcn  ddi  gas  ....       a 
gcaiinoes  gael  lago  iuni  John  Davies 

137  Cywydd  i  Harry  vii.,  new  Arthur  ei  fab  pan  i  ganwyd 

Arthur  penudur  ydoedd     ....  b 

a  Haw  Grist  rhag  cvvn  ILoegr  oil  Dd:  ILivyd 

ap  ll'n  Gr:  o  fathafarn  l/^So 

138  J  Edward  III. — Edwart  ap  Edwart  gwart  gw$>r     ...        c 

Yiio  i  doi  yii  i  diwedd  lolo  Goch 

140  Cywydd  i  Owen  Tiidur  pan  oedd  Yngharchar 

Gwyddom  devvi  a  goddef     ....  d 

yn  rhydd  i  Befimynydd  Moii    leu:  Gethin  ap  I.  ap  lleis". 

142  Moliant  y  parch:  Gr:  Nannau  16§1 

Y  Hew  gwar  alluog  wedd     ....  e 
yr  aerod  o'i  orwyrion                                           John  Davies 

144  Mar:  ir  un  gwr  l6§S  :  Tioes  Duw  niwl  trist  anaele  ...       / 
mewn  gogoniant  y  Saut  sydd  John  Davies 

148   Cywydd  priodas  y  parch:  Huw  Nanney  a    Chatrin  Vj 
W"  Vaughan  o  Gorsygedol  l6^0 
Af  i  neithior  fwyn  weithian     ....  g 

ir  Siroedd  gyda  'r  Seren  John  Davies 

151  Awdl  foliant  i  Col:  Hugh  Nanney  l6g!,. 

Cornol  wyt  wrol  at  euro  dynion     ....  h 

a  Chatrin  unol  ich  Twr  Nannau  „  ,, 

154  f  ofyn  newtd  31ilgwn  .-  Yr  aer  difyrr  aur  dafod     ....     * 
galledwjt  gelled  iti  Richard  Philip 

157  ^  Ruff:  Vachan  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  o  Gors  y  gedol 

GryfEydd  gylch  rhydd  gwalch  rhuddaur     ....  k 

Oni  ddel  Owen  ddulwyd  Tudyr  Penllyn 

158  Cymod  Rhys  or  Tyieyn  a  Gr:  Vachan  ap  Einion 

damwain  blia  yw'r  byd  yma     ....  I 

i  roi  ar  larll  Penfro  'r  vvyi'  Deio  ap  leuan  dii 

160  J  Elisau  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  a  Gr:  Vachan  i  fraivd 

Y  ddaulew  o  Wyddelwern     ....  ni 
dyro  uddunt  bedeiroes                                     Tudur  Penllyn 

161  Ty  gwyn  y  Bermo :  Vviy  a  wnaeth  ond  ein  pen  iaii  ....    n 

Twr  gvija.  bendiged  duw  'r  gwaith  Tud^'.r  Penllyn 

162  Mar:  Elizau  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  o'r  Deirnion  11^9 

Bid  rh)^  wann  Boetri  ennyd     ....  o 

pen  oedd  i  bawb  pan  oedd  byw  Lewis  Moii 

164  Mar:  Gi\-  Va"  ap  Gr:  ap  Eignion  o  Gors  y  gedol 

Duw  hen  d^g  Edwart  frenin     ....  p 

Oes  hir  ir  arglwyddes  hon  Gutto  'r  Glynn 

165  Cywydd  i  Reinallt  ap  Gr:  ap  Bleddyn  or  Twr 

Tri  annerch  atat  Keinallt     ....  q 

Eryr  y  Twr  er  y  Tarw  Tudur  Penllyn 

166  J  dd:  ap  leu:  ap  Ei"  yn  ol  iddo  gadw  Castell  Harlech 

Y  Gwilliaid  a  gaid  fal  gwynt     ....  r 
gwendyd  biaii  'r  byd  ar  bel               Dd:  JLwyd  ap  ll'n  Gr: 

168  7  Rich:  Vachan  o  Gors  y  gedol  yw  groesaio  adref 
ar  ol  i  restio  dros  y  wlad 
G^ynedd  a  fu  wag  ennyd     ....  _        ■' 

Ehodd  Duw  ai  berth  rhwydd-deb  yt  John  Philip 


272  MOSTYK  MANUSCEXPT   165. 

Awdl  a  chywi/dd  mol:  i  Rys  Var.lum  o  Gors  y  gedol 

170       Dedwyddwch  didrwcb  fo  d'oedran     ....  a 

a  da  i  cliweddir  pob  dedwyddwch        1560  IVilUam  ILeyn 

173       Gweitliio 'r  wyf  gwaitli  arofyn     ....  J 

teiroes  mwy,  yt  RJ^.s     Amen  1560  W"  TLyn 

175   Moliant  Gr:  Fychan*  o  Gors  y  gedol 

Mynych  i  bum  d  anoeth     ....  c 

Gad  draw 'n  liir,  Gatrin  a  hwfi  Richard  Philip 

17"  Martcnad  William  Vaiighan\  o  Gors  y  gedol  1633 

A^&A  rh^  oer  duodd  yr  baf     ....  d 

a  thair  oes  itb  aer  Eisiart  Humphrey  ap  Howell 

180  J  ddiolch  am  gleddyf  i  Rvffydd  VachanX  o  Gors 

y  gedol  dros  Ynyr  Vachan 
Tri  oedd  bael  trvvy  dda  helynt     ....  e 

dr\vy  lesu  llaw  dduw  drosocb  John  Davies 

182  Moliant  Evan  ah  Einion  o'r  Hendwr 

Y  gv.i-da  o  gywirdeb     ....  / 

yw  tuedd  fry,  hyd  dydd  frawd  Gi<tto  'r  Glyh 

181  Moliant  Howell  ap  Siankin  o  Ynys  y  maengwyn 

Howel  o  gwnsel  Gwinsor     ....  g 

Er  chwedl  un  eiriecbed  ladd  ||  (i.  1 8)— left  unfiui.shed. 

187  Marwnad  Gr:  Nanney^  or  Dolagwyn 

Mor  bynod  y  nod  a  wnaeth     ....  h 

lie  Enaid  Glan  ILawndeg  wledd  Gryffydd  Phylyb 

197  Adolwg,  dywaid  Wilym  [Pycban]     ....  i 
blin  yw  goddef  y  gefyii 

blinacb  bod  hebod  na  byn     .... 

Na'cb  gweled  yn  iacb  Gwilim  Hugh  Cae  ILwyd 

198  Marwnad  Rys  ap  Sion  o  Lyn  nedd 

Un  eisiau  golau  rbag  Alon  y  sydd     ....  k 

weitbion  oi  eisiau,  aetb  yn  isaf  lerwerth  Fynglwyd 

200  Bustl  y  Byd :  Egor  Nef,  wrth  lef,  araith  lafar     .     .     .     .      / 
Cnocciwa  neu  gurwn  f'e  egorir  John  Tudyr 

202   Cywydd  i  ddysgu  Ceisio  lesu  Grist 

di  liunwn  oil  down  yi*  nes     ....  m 

ai  gadw  i  gyd,  gwedi  i  gael  Joh7i  Philip 

205   Cywydd  yn  erhyn  Cenfigen 

Ocb  !  ddynion  fucbedd  anwii-     ....  n 

duw  'n  ei  lie,  da  ynnill  ynn  „         „ 

208       Duw  dy  nawdd,  da  wyd  i  ni     .     .     .     .  o 

tragwyddol  nid  drvvg  weddi  Richard  Philip 

210       Duw  lor  llywiawdr,  y  lluoedd     ....  p 

dduw  byw  ar  i  ddeaii  bo  'm  „  „ 

*  "  Grandson  of  the  above  Ehys.  This  G.  V.  built  the  front  of  Cors  y  gedol  in 
1593,  and  the  chappel  at  Llandduwa  in  1615  the  year  before  he  died.  There  is  there 
a  handsome  Monument  to  his  memory — of  freestone  well  preserved  to  this  time 
1762." 

j-  "  Son  of  above  Griffith.  This  W.  V.  married  the  Heires  of  Plasben  and  rebuilt 
part  of  that  house  in  1607,  and  in  1630  he  built  the  Gate  house  at  Cors  y  gedol." 

X  "  Grandson  of  the  Rioiart  of  the  previous  poem.  This  G.  V.  died  unmarried 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  Brother  Richard  who  mailed  the  Heiress  of  S'  Evan 
Lloyd  of  Bodidrlst  in  Yale." 

§  "  His  picture  is  at  Nanney  drawn  1632  ;  aged  22."     Cf.  p.  121  above. 


THE   SIL7ER   BOWL  OF  JESUS   COLLEGE,   ETC,  273 

213  Eng"  dau  Synnied :  An  liawddgar  feinwar  ar  faneg  ....      a 

a  ddiengest  o  Nest  yn  Ati .'  Cai^"  W"  Midleton 

h.       Yn  wir  hoff  Feinir  fFynnest     ....  6 

Na  roese  imi  An-ras  mawr  Richard  Hughes 

214  O  ddewi  iddi  addaw  jdd  oedd  &c.  c 
h.       Da  0  Dad  i  Dad  ydi  dy  Deidiau  &c.                                       d 

c.  Dwg  Duth  didol  druth  dadl  dri  dewr  Dudur  &c.  e 

d.  Englyn  i  Nannau  ar  un  gydsain,  lysS. 

I  NannoM  -wen  yn  union  aww  jno  &c.      L.  ilorris  Mon:  f 
e.       Da  o  had,  diwad  da  wedi  &c.  liic:  Philip  g 

215  Ai  i  bon  liw  Eira  broa  brigwybr     ....  h 
o  Feirdd  fyrdd,  Gwyrdd  yw  ei  Gwisg. 

h.       Gwae  fi  o'm  geni  am  geiniog  o  Brea  &c.  i 

c.  Englyn  a  wnaeth  Htiw  Morris  ar  ei  Gldf  welu 

Meddylioa  trymion  am  troes  i  wylo     ....  k 

i  fynu  dwg  fy  Enaid  i  Htiw  Morris 

216  Ymaitb  foreawaith  iv  a  &c.  / 


217  Moliant  S'  leuan  JLwyd  o  Jul 

Fob  byw  -wrth  ei  ryw  yr  aeth     ...  m 

a  Duw  dad  i  gadw  dy  w)*r  Wiliam  ILetjn 

222  Mar:  Rhisiart  Fychan  M.P.,  o  Gors-y-gedol,  2^  .  3  .  113!f 

Ysgafnaidd  iefengaidd  fu     .     .     .     .  n 

o'r  Bedd  i  Senedd  y  Saint  W.  Wynn 

226  J'r  Fail  arian  oreuraid — Rhodd  S'  Watcyn  Williams 
Wynn  i  Goleg  yr  lesii  yn  Rhyd-ychen. 
Y  fol-euraid  Fail  eirian     ....  o 

hi  fawdd  ddj^n,  hi  feddwa  ddiawl     .... 
Fiiinau  weddia  'n  fynych 
Yn  Peinioes  i  na  fo'n  sych  W"  Wynn* 

231  jf  Castell  Harlech  Hong  W"  Fychan  o  Gors-y-gedol 

Gwr  oedd  fwyn  a  garriod  fawl     ....  2^ 

J  marchog  douiog  ar  d'  61  W"  Wynn 

ai  cant  ac  ai  hy[_s']grifennodd  yma  IJoo.      Cf.  MS.  1G3,  p.  122. 

233-76.  A  transcriptt  of  the  History  of  the  Gwydir  Family 
made  early  in  the  xviiith  century.  The  text  agrees  with  the  printed 
copies,  but  gives  in  addition  the  Latin  originals  of  certain  documents 
to  which  references  are  made.  For  other  transcripts  see  the  Preface 
of  Mr.  Askew  Eoberts  to  the  Oswestry  edition  (1878)  of  the  History 
of  the  Gwydir  Family  by  Sir  John  Wynne,  Bart,  [born  1553, 
died  1626]. 

277   Y  Farn  :  Dod  yn  dy  nawdd  a  hawdd  hynt     ....  q 

Amen,  a  Nef  i  minnau  Groniey  Owen 

283  Bonedd  a  chyneddfau  yr  Awen.     Mai  2§,  1152. 

Bu  gan  Homer  gerddber  gynt     ....  r 

Sant,  Sant,  Sant,  Moliant.     Amen.  „  „ 

289   Y  Farn  :  Gwnaed  a  fynn  a  gwnaed  fawl     ....  * 

annhraethawl  ei  mawl.     Amen.  ^755  W"  Wynn 


*  "  Person  Llan-Gynhaval  pan  oedd  yn  ieuanc  yn  Rhydyclien  ai  cant." 
t  This  is  the  copy  mentioned  by  Rev.  Evan  Evans    in  his  Specimens  of  Wel.sh 
Poetry. 

e    87130.  S 


274  MOSTi'N   MANUSCRIPT    184. 

Dwy  faricnad  i  .Mr:  Wiliam   Wynn,  M.A.,  Person 
ILann  Gynhafal,  a  Mynafon  1760 
2D5       I  rcae  Liraeth  i'm  lioeri     ....  a 

Yno  fytli  o  liyn  o  fyd  Hvan  Evans 

298       ])\vys  arwyl  Duw  a  sorrodd     ....  b 

I  Uduw  anwyl  a'i  ddonUiu  Hice  Jones 

303   C:  Priodas  Dd:  Gwynn  o  Daliaris  ag  Ann  etiftddes  Gtm 

Fychan  o  Gorsygedol  a  Nannau  1156.    See  MS.  163,  p.  8,  b. 
Havvdd  ammor,  i'r  tymmor  teg     ....  c 

A  thangnef,  a  Nef  yn  61  Rhys  ab  Sion 

306  Ilarwnad  Mrs:  Gwynn  o  Daliaris  il6'l 

Darfu  'r  hlnon,  hyd  fronnydd     ....  d 

Y  fo  'n  blsid  i'w  Lenaid  hi  Rhys  ap  Sion 

400  Marwnad  Mrs;  Wiliam  Fychan  o  Gors  y  gedol  SfC.  llOS 

Uynoethwyd,  diau  neithiwr     ....  e 

Fu  honno,  N^f  i'w  Henaid  Rhys  ah  Sion 

482.  A  copy  of  the  Proclamation  of  the  Caerwys  Eistedvod,  1568. 
For  the  original  see  page  291  of  this  Catalogue. 

497-98.  The  authors'  names  that  composed  the  first  part  of  this 
book,  and  which  was  transcribed  by  .T.  David  Laes  &c. 


MS.  184.  THE  HOLY  GRAIL.  Vellum;  12|x 9  inches;  197 
folios  ;*  late  xvth  century ;  bound  in  white  vellum.  The  MS.  is 
written  in  double  columns,  32  lines  to  a  column;  the  front  page  is 
rubbed  and  stained  and  not  easily  legible,  but  the  rest  of  the  MS.  is  in 
a  very  fair  state  of  preservation.  Folios  2,  4,  5,  76-79,  93,  173, 
179-91  are  now  wanting. 

The  text  agrees  with  that  of  Peniarth  MS.  11  =  Hengwrt  MS.  49,t 
of  which  it  is  probably  a  copyj  in  a  modernized  orthography.  The 
information  in  the  i-ubric  at  the  end  of  the  text  is  precise  in  several 
particulars : — 

Sang  Royal  ae  liavas  ac  ae  \  due  y  nef :  Nyt  amgen  .  Ga\laath 
vah  LaOnflot  dy  lac. —  |  Peredur  vab  Evroc  Jarll  \  A  Bwrt  vab 
brenhin  hOrt :  .  .  .  .  \  Y  copi  hynttaf  a  yfgrivennod  Maftir  phylip 
dauyd  o  vnic  lyfyr  y  vrdedic  e6y\thr  Trahaearn%  ab  Jeuan  ah  Mauric: 
Ar  llyfyr  h6nn  a  |  beris  fyr  rys  vab  th(oma)s  |  i  efgrivennu  ar  y  goft  | 
6  hun  :5  Hen6  yr  ysgolhaic  |  ae  hyfgrivennod  •  G^'dim  vab  John  vab 
GYfUim  vab  |  Jeua.n  vychan  vab  jfeuan  vab  \  Eynyon  vab  Rys  \  vab 
Madoc  vah  llyOelyn  \  vab  kedCgan  vab  elyftan  glodrud : 


*  Pan  oatid  oet  krift  1563  yroedd  yn  y  llyfr  hwnn  onid  dalen  dau  kantt  oil 
(fol.  178)  [Gr:  Dwnn].  ?  mail  yny  llyfr  hwnn  o  ddail  oil  gwedy  yfgrifennv  xv  a 
naw  igain  yn  wir  [Gr.  Dwnn]     "  Nag  oes  yn  awr  leans  mi  prvfiais  "  (fol.  86). 

+  Edited  by  Canon  Robert  Williams,  1876.    London :  T.  Richards. 

X  See  lolo  MSS.,  pp.  324-28  (Llandovery,  1848). 

S  The  -words  not  italicised  are  difficult  to  read,  having  first  been  more  or  less 
erased,  and  then  crossed  out  in  black  ink.  The  name  of  Sir  Rhys  ap  Thomas  is 
especially  faint.  A  reference  to  extract  c.  on  the  next  page  will  explain  the  reason 
of  this  erasure,  as  Gr.  Dwnn  claims  for  himself  the  credit  of  bearing  the  "cost  of 
making  this  book." 


THE   HOLY   GRAIL.  275 

There  are  numerous  marginalia  in  the  hand  of  Griffith  Dwitn.  The 
following  throw  light  upon  the  history  of  the  MS. : — 

a.  Van  oedd  oed  [kvist]  mil  ahanner  a  pvm  miyneild  ai-  higaiu  J  dapartodd 
eneii  iyr  rys  ab  thomas  ai  gorff  ddygwyl  deilo  ag  i  by  heb  gladdy  bomthcg  diwaniod 
with  i  radd  raarchog  or  gart[er]  oedd  of  ag  a  gladdwyd  yughwrt  y  brddyr  Ihvydon 
ynghiervyrddin  yn  aunrydeddyf  a  ffyn  bwrwrwyd  kwrt  i  lawr  i  kyfodwyd  i  gorff 
ef  ai  efgyrn  ag  i  deythbwyd  ag  ef  i  eglwyf  beder  ynghaer  vyrddia  ag  i  kladdwyd 
yno  I    gryff'ydd  l^wno  ab  oweln  i  nai  va.b  i  nith  verch  i  guilder  ai  fgiifenodd  (fol.  26). 

b.  Pan  oedd  o.  k.  1502  i  dapartoedd  cneid  owein  dflun  ab  rrebert  dwun  ai  gorff 
ag  i  kladdyn  [sicl  yn  eglwys  vair  ynghidweli  odd  |  tyvywu  i  gapel  mair  tybwnt 
i  dwm  gryifydd  ab  mredydd//  pann  oeddo.  Ic.  1508  i  lias  gryffydd  Kyd  ab  thomas 
Eyd  ar  afon  nedd  gann  ymelldigedig  ladron  yr  liwnn  a  [ojedd  yn  dvfod  oi  waed  cf 
i  hvD  (fol.  48). 

f.  Llyma  vy  Uyfri  gryffydd  dwnn  ap  oweyu  dwnu  ap  Robert  divnu  yfgwier  y  gwr 
a  goftoedd  gwneythr  y  ilyfr  bwun  (fol.  178).    Cf.  fols.  26,  128,  and  132. 

d.  Pann  oedd  o.  k.  1518  ^  gwneythym  ]  gryffydd  dwnn  ap  owein  y  tv  bychan 
ynyryftrad  merthyr  ....  [ag]  J  dechravais  ....  anfeilo  y  plas  nyryftrad 
merthyr  ....  [ag  yn]  1533  J  reythym  i  drigio  iddo  gyntaf  mi  a  gweullian 
vercli  lewyf  vymhericd  [  =  -n-ife]  (fol.  114).  [Yn]  1535  J  dechreyais  beri 
gwnneythyr  y  berllan  wrth  y  plas  nyryftrad  ag  J  dygodd  gwr  o  lann  yftyffan 
a  elwid  fiou  mredydd  yrigaiu  prenn  mwyaf  mywn  koler  kord  ar  i  gefn  o  blwyf  llan 
yftyffan  ir  yftrad  merthyr  (fol.  118).  [Yn]  1532  iroedd  y  dderwen  yfydd  rwng 
ffeneftr  y  gegin  affeueftr  yfydd  oddyadau  drws  y  tv  bychan  yny  veffeu  yr  hr/nu  a 
welais  gr.  dwun  ab  oivein  (fol.  120). 

t!.  Pann  o.  o.  k.  1554  iroedd  o  gywyddav  ag  odlav  gwedy  J  gwueythyr  i  ryffydd 
dwnn  ab  ow.  dwnn  ynyfgrlfenedig  mywn  Ilyfr  ryffydd  dwnn  bedwar  a  thrigain  | 
achywydd  i  rys  dwnn   achywydd  i  harri   dwnn  a  day   gywydd  i  owein  dwnn   a 
chywydd  ihCiw  dwnn  ag  i   ddafydd  dwnn  meibon   ryffydd  dwun  (fol.  156).     N.B. 
— There  are  12  extracts  from  these  Cywyddeu  on  the  margins  of  this  MS. 

f.  Pann  oedd  o.  k.  1564  iroedd  geunyf  i  gr.  dwnn  .  .  .  .  o  lyfrai  kymraeg 
mowriou  a  bychain  i  myhvn  bedwar  a  thrigain  oil  igyd  yn  iawn  (fol.  150). 

g.  Paun  o.  o.  k.  1537  .  .  .  .  j  dapartodd  enaid  iyr  John  teg  ai  gorff  ag  i 
kladdwyd  yn  eglwyf  lanu  vihangel  Aber  kywyn  lie  y  kladdyfid  y  dad  ai  hynaif  or 
blaen  ve  vy  yn  llann  devaylog  yn  gywrad  ag  yn  brydd  gwyl  i  ryffydd  dwnn 
ab  owein  ddeng  mlynedd  nef  y  enaid  (fol.  164). 

The  folloiL'ing  marginalia  are  in  different  hands. 

(1.)  Dauudd  Mathe  ai  pie  (fols.  108  and  158)  ;  0  for  o  fanor  o  fynydd  o  gylch  | 
o  eigion  afonydd  |  i  hennfyn  hen  fewn  dydd  |  -weddi  ddidolk  ddai  ddedwydd  |  per 
me  Dxuudd  Ihvyd  Matheiv  1579  (fol.  129)  ;  Twyllaf  nimprydiaf  bradwr  hollawl  | 
ni  thwyllaf  darlvwr  |  towyll  waith  nid  twyll  i  wr  |  toUiad  hyll  twyllo  twyllwr  I 
D.  Ihvyd  Mathey  1593  (fol.  152i). 

(2.)  Edward  Games  (fol.  1566). 

(3.)  An  Indenture  ....  Betweene  Jenkiu  John  thomas  of  llanyhyther  in  the 
County  of  Carmarthen  gent:  of  the  one  porte  and  thomas  Jo"  ?  ho'U  philipe  of  the 
parisli  and  Com.  aforefayd — 20  May  41st  year  of  Elizabeth's  reign  (fol.  1684). 
Cf.  fols.  170  and  46i. 

4.  There  are  also,  throughout  the  MS.,  marginalia  in  the  autograph  of  William 
Salesbury  indicative  of  the  subject  matter  of  the  text. 

Megys  yr  oed  yr  aniheroOdyr  arthyr  yny  lys  a  elOit  camalot  .  Kcs 
fadOrn  lulgOyri  :  Oct  yr  arglOyd  ieffu  grift :  Pedair  blyned  ardec  a 
devgein  a  phed^var  cant  .  Ac  y  gyt  ac  ef  yr  oedynt  o  vilOyr  J'  vort  grofi 
dec  a  deugaint  a  chant :  A  gOedy  mynet  paOb  y  eifted  a  nadynt  A 
ruthraO  ar  vCiytta :  Nachaf  yn  dyvot  y  mywn  hyt  geir  broun  arthyr 
vnben  ievank  yn  arvaOc  ef  ae  varch:  Ac  yn  dyOedut  wrth  Arthur 
Hanpych  gwell  amheraOdyr  Arthyr  heb  ef  Athithav  vnbenn  poet 
da   yt  [heb]yr   Arthyr :  Arglwyd   heb   y   mackOy  A   yttiO   Lawnl'lot 

yma ends  : 

Ac  velly  y  gnottalTant  gerdet  ar  liyt  fEoreftyd  diffaith :  Ac  ny 
bOyttaent  onyt  gOraid  llylTauoed  Ac  anffa6d  galet  arnunt :  Eiffyoes  yr 
oed  hynny  yn  regi  bod  vdunt  6y  .  A  phan  ovynnit  vdunt  pa  ham  y 
bydunt  vcUy :  EOch  medynt  Oynttau  Orth  y  neb  ae  govyunai  yr  He  y 

s  2 


276  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   204. 

buatn  iiinnau  .  A  cliOi  Ae  gOybyd6ch :  Ac  velly  yd  attebynt  y  LaOpr 
Ac  velly  y  bu  y  marchogyon  hyny  yny  vucbedfanttaid  honno  yny  vuan 
vair6  .  Ac  ny  cbafFat  ganttunt  dy  vyth  amgen  byfpyfrOyd  :  A  llyua  y 
chOi  yr  bOnn  hyfpyfaf  a  giglef  i  y  Orth  lys  brenliio  peleuv  Ac  velly  y 
tervyna  jftoryaeu  Saint  Greal. 

Then  follows  the  colophon  as  given  above. 


MS.  204.  A  Collection  of  Welsh  Peoveebs,  arranged  alpha- 
betically, in  the  autograph  of  Thomas  ap  Wiliam.  Paper;  7f  x  5f 
inches;  ITOpages;  1620 ;  bound  in  Russia  leather. 

Eobert  Humphrey's  name  is  written  on  page  1. 

3.  Crynodeb  helaethlawn  or  Diarebion  camberaeg  gorchestol :  sef  yw 
hynny  diarabedh  ymadrodhiow  synhwyrgoeth  yn  yr  hwn  draethawd  y 
caifi  y  darlhefiydh  hygar,  yn  y  wersig  leiaf  a  dybygai  rai  anghelfydh  iia 
bydliai  ddihareb  :  nailh  ai  rhagorawl  rybudh  i  ganlyn  gwrolder  a 
rhinwedh  dha  ;  ne  eiriol  dwyslawn  i  ochelud  beie  Ihesgedh  a  syrtlmi, 

Yma  J  galh  y  cymro  glan  weled  deualh  a  gwybod,  athrylith,  diwioldeb, 
a  synwyr  natiriol  yr  hen  gymru  an  henafied  ni  yn  f  hen  bethau  y  gallant 
ymgystadlu  ag  un  gyffi-ediniaith  yn  Ewropa,  o  dhyval  ystriw  ag  astud 
vyvjrdawd.     Thomas  vap  Wiliam  physycwr  gwledig  :   1620  : 

Pei  caffai  r  cymro  glan  lyvr  or  Trioedh  arbennig  a  elhir  i  wnenthyd 
ar  Geiriadur  helaethav  ef  a  allai  dhywedyd  vod  ei  Jaith  en  gymmheu- 
dhoeth  trwyddi. 

4.  Ornatissimo  viro,  prude?Jtia,  ingenio,  insigni  memoria  tenacissima 
predito,  doctriuae  liberalis,  presipue  historiarum  etudiosissimo,  antiquario 
magno  :  Diio  Johanni  Wynn  de  Gwedyr  illustri  equiti  aurato  et 
Baronetto  patrias  su£e  decori  et  ornamerato,  in  egenos  et  pauperes,  cibo, 
pecuniis,  et  vestimentis  munifico  ;  qui  maioribus  suis  etiam  prajjlaris 
viris  virtute  praeluxit :  Thomas  Qvilielmi,  phyliatros  sanitatem  et  salutem 
precatur  sempiternam,  in  christo  Jesu  Domiuo  et  salvatore  nostro  ;  cui 
etiam  hoc  literarium  manusculu»!  idem  auctor  dat  dicat  et  dedicat. 

Erasmus  Botrodamus  a  scrivenodh  lyvr  mawr  v^eirthiawg  or  Direbion 
lladin  ar  groeg,  ir  hwn  i  mae  yn  i  alw  Chiliades,  sev  yw  hynnu 
miloedh,  ag  eto  yn  y  lly vr  yma  i  mae  tair  Mil  a  iFum  cant  ag  y  chwaneg. 
gaii  hynii  mwynhned  yn  cymru  ni  y  trysor  hwn./ 

5  DIARHEBION  :  CYMRETG  : 

A  acbwyno  heb  achos  gw[n]eler  achos  iddo 

A  arddo  diredd  a  gaiff  Sygonedd     ....    ends-,' 

[Ys]  drwg  y  deng  hewin  [ni  f]fortho  vn  gelv[i]n 

Ysgwir  y  bwrir  baril 
Diben      scwd  o  bai  gwag  i  scid  [sic]     See  Catalogue,  p.  is\i/. 
1620.     Yn  dhiwetha  i  mae  barnu 

m 

170  Ag  velly  y  cyvansodhOyd  y  llyvyr  yma 

ad  lawdem  et  honorem  Dei  optirai 

maximi  ad  vtilitatem  proximi 

nostri.    Soli  Deo  honor  et 

gloria  in  secula  secu- 

lorum    amen. 

.  T  .  .  W 


BRUTS,    CHRONICLES,   LAWS.  277 

mS.  211.  Geoffrey's  IIistouia,  Brenhined  y  Saeson,  Neknufs, 
'GiLDAS,  Chronicles,  and  Liws.  Paper  ;  Uf  x  9^  inches  ;  pages 
1-328  followed  by  about  as  many  blank  pages;  circa  168o*  (p.  279) ; 
"bound  in  leather;  from  the  "  Gloddaeth  Library." 

Pages  1-82.  Brut  Brenhinedd  Yni/s  Brt/daiii :  Pan  yr  oodwu  yn 
■vynych  yn  ireiglaw  medylieu  lawer  ac  am  lawerobetheu  fy  inedwla 
■tligwydws  yn  storiau  brenhined  Ynys  brydein  ac  y  bii  .anryved  cennyf 
am  draethiant  Gildasa  Beda  mor  dovvyll  ac  na  choffasant  or  brenhined 
a  vuant  yn  ynys  Brydaiu  kynu  dyvod  krist  Ynghuawd  nac  o  Arthur 
nac  0  lawer  o  vrenhined  a  vuant  wedi  KnaAvdolieth  krist  rygawswn 
iviheu  ac  yr  glovvswn  hot  eu  gweithredoed  yn  deilwng  o  voliant  ac 
yn  goffadwy  drwy  lythyr  gan  lawer  o  bobloed  ac  yn  didanweh 
ganthunt  draethu  o  nadj'nt  ar  eu  didwyn  ar  g6f  ac  val  yr  oedwii  yn 
•esmalhau  am  hynny  e  rodes  ym  Gwallter  Archdiacon  ryt  ychen 
llyvr  kymraec  ac  yntho  gweithredoed  brenhined  Ynys  brydain  o 
Trutus  ....  Ac  o  arch  ac  annoo  yr  athro  hwnnw  kyt  gorffei  arnaf 
kynnullaw  geiriau  estronawl  o  ardeu  eusioes  om  kcediiiwl  ethrylith  am 
priawt  binneu  vy  hun  y  pryderais  trossi  ac  ymchwelyd  y  llyvr  kymraec 
hwnnw  yn  ILadin  kanis  pe  llanwn  y  llet  wynebau  o  amgylchion  eiriau 
■magu  blinder  a  wnae  hynny  mwy  na  digrifwch  neu  grynodeb  yr  ai 
darlleai  kanys  blinach  oedd  dyall  y  geiriau  estronawl  na  darllain  yr 
ystoria  ....  Prydain  vawr  yw  henw  yr  oreu  or  ynysoed  a  elwit  waith 

arall  gynt   albion,    sef    oed    hynny    y    wenn   Ynys  itc ends  : 

Kadwaladr  ....  aeth  i  Euvain  val  yr  erchis  yr  angel  iddo  sef  ocdd 
Tiynny  o.  k.  683  ac  yno  y  bu  vyw  bump  blwyddin  a  llawen  vu  }•  pab 
wrtho  ac  ef  ai  kadarnhaodd  ef  ymhlith  Saint  gleinionac  yno  y  klavychws 
ef  o  orlhrwm  haiut  yn  y  12ed  o  vis  tachwedd  y  bu  varw  ac  yr  aeth  i 
enaid  i  Nef  688. 

A  phan  aeth  kadwaladr  i  Ruvain  o  Lydaw  y  doeth  Ivor  ac  Ynyr 
.  .  .  .  ar  tywysogion  a  vuant  ar  Gymru  ol  yn  ol  a  orchymyusiis  i 
Garadawc  o  Lan  Gad  van  vynghyd  oeswr  oedd  kwnnw  ac  iddo  vo  yr 
-adewais  y  defnydd  i  ysgrivennu  brenhinoedd  y  Saesou  a  pheidio  ar 
Kymru  kann  nad  yw  ganthynty  llyvyr  yrhwn  a  ymchwelodd  Gwallter 
archiagon  Rhydychen  o  Ladin  yn  Gymraec  ac  ef  ai  traetliws  yn  wir  ac 
yn  gwbl  o  herwydd  ystoria  y  dywedigion  Gymru  ac  am  hynny  yr 
ymchwelais  inneu  o  Gymraec  yn  ILadin  holl  Ystoria  y  Kymru  ac  velly 
y  terfyna  holl  ystoria  Brutus, 

82  Weithian  yr  ysbyswn  beth  yw  swm  pob  llythyren  mewn  kyfiif. 
A  :  y  w  pump  cant  &c. 

Pages  83-135.  Ystoria  Brenhinedd  y  Saeson :  Gwedi  darvod  yr 
anoddyn  vail  dymhestlus  ar  newyn  girad  a  ddywetpwyd  uchod  yn  oes 
Kadwaladr  Vendigaid  y  doeth  y  Saeson  a  goresgyn  ILoegr  or  mor  bwy 
gilyJd  ai  chynnal  dan  bump  brenin  val  y  buesynt  gynt  yn  oes  Hors,  a 
Hengistr  pan  ddeolasant  Wrtheyrn  Gorthenau  o  dervynau  ILoegr  a 
rhannu  holl  Loegr  yn  bump  rhan  rhyngthynt  ac  yna  y  symudasant 
henwau  y  dinesydd  ar  trefi  ar  kymydau  ar  kantrefydd  ar  swyddau  ar 
Ehandiroedd  ....  a  hevyd  er  dwyn  ar  gof  yr  arwydd  bradedio  a  vu 
rhyngthynt  pan  laddasant  holl  d'wysogion  y  kymru  ar  kylHll  ymynydd 
Ambri  sef  oedd  y  gair  (draweth  houre  Sexes)  am  hynny  y  galwasaut 
randiroedd  or  gair  hwnnw  nid  amgen  East  sex,  West  sex,  South  8e.r. 
....  ends :  pan  oedd  krist  1433  y  bu  yklipps  mawr  ar  yr  haul  ac  y 
bu  y  kynhaiaf  mall  gwlybyroc  ac  yn  ol  hynny  y  bu  dair  blynedd  drud  ar 

*  There  is  enough  resemblance  iu  the  writing  of  this  MS.,  as  well  as  MS.  1  to 
4hat  of  MS.  165  to  suggest  the  possibility  of  its  being  in  the  autograph  ot  John 
David  Laes. 


278  MOSTYN    MANUSOEIPT    211. 

pcdweiydd  vlwyildyii  ar  liugein  oi  vrenhiniaeth  ef  y  priodes  Harry 
Varged  vercb  brenin  Sisil  a  due  o  Vangio  ac  uddynt  y  bu  vab  a  elwid 
Edwart  dwysoc  ac  wedi  gwladychu  a  bono  onid  banner  blwyddyn 
deugain  y  tyfiwyd  ef  oi  vrenbiBiaelb  ac  yr  urddvvyd  Edwurt  ap  Ricbart 
due  of  lork.  Finis. 

137-211.  Gildas  Nennius  Eulogium  Brittannia  Insults  Autbore 
Nennio  Brittonum  Historiograpbo  sub  Gildae  sapientis  larva  et  nomine 
diu  excepto  Descripsit  ex  coUatione  variorum  exemplariu»i  prajcipue 
Gul:  Camdeni  Cod.  Bibliothecse  publicie  Cantabig.  Rob.  Cottoni 
Baronetti  AMorumqiie  aliquot  notae  vetustioris  Ex  quibus  etiam  tituli 
bistorise  &  epistolarum  desumtiE  sunt  ut  et  reliquorum  Jacobus  Usserius 
Armacbanus.  Confer  MS.  Westmonast.  &  MS.  in  Eegia  Bibliotbeca 
adjectuwi  Historias  ^obaMjiis  de  S.  Albano. 

Pages  213-220.  Vita  sanctissiini  atque  Doctissimi  viri  Gildce 
incipit. 

Page  221.  Incijnunt  Chroiiica  venerahilis  Bedce :  Prima  die  seculi 
nascentis  fecit  Deus  Lucem  quam  appellavit  diem  &c. 

Pages  222-252.  A  Latin  Chronicle :  Hely  sacerdos  An.  xl.  Arcba 
Tpstamonta  capta  est  Brutus  Ascanii  nepos  Bvittaniam  ^nsulam  adijt 

et  reguum  suuni  Locrio  filio  suo  tradidit  infine  vitae   suae 

(p.  248)  Lewelinus  princeps  Nortwallie  interfectus  fuit  in  bello  prope 
Lanuegb  in  Bueltb  iij"  ^d'  Decembris  Alio  Dni  m''cc''lxxxii''  cui  vaior 
sua  filia  Comitis  Simon  Estate  precedente  peperit  filiam  et  pariendo 
mortua  est.  Quce  filia  postea  per  Regem  Edwardum  Cognatu  matris 
SULK  una  cum  nutrice  sua  capta  missa  est  in  Angliam  nutrienda,  magna 

morina   bominum./ ends :    Annus   1288   secundo   die   Aprilis 

bora  nona  facta  est  Ecclipsis  solis  in  superiori  parte  solis  vt  videbatur 
intraus  substantiam  solis  ita  quod  quasi  videbatur  sol  habere  duo  Cornua 
sursum  elevata  ot  duravit  sic  usqi^e  ad  boram  Vesperarum./ 

Pages  251-252.  A  few  additional  entries  in  Latin. 

Pages  253-275.  Annales  Camhriae  ignoti Authoris :  Anno  Mortalitas 
magna  fuit  in  Britannia  per  qua  Cadwallader  filius  Catwallauni  in 
minorem  Brittaniaw?  aufugit. 

Anno  ....  Rodri  rex  Britonum  obijt./  .  .  :  .  ends  : 
Anno  1286  Combustio  domorum  apud  Stratam  floridam./ 

Pages  276-277.  Additional  entries  from  1147-1298  ending:  Hue 
usqjje  ex  Libro  vocato  Doomesday  reservato  penes  Rememoratorem  Dnie 
Reginas  in  Scacca,rio  Westmonasterii. 

Pages  279-318.   Chronicon  Cambria  :*  Prima  die  seculi  fecit  Deua 

lucem  &c ends:  Annus  1280  Leweliuus  fit.  Giifini  occisus  est 

ab  Anglis  fraude  suorum.  E.Eex  totam  Snoudonia  subjuga^'it  Castruni 
Aberconwi  Edificatum  est.  Annus  1283  David  cum  duobus  filiis  uxore 
et  filiabus  capti  sunt  fraude  nepolum.  Annus  1286  Combustio  Domorum 
apud  Stratam  Floridam. 

Page  319.  Kyvreitheu  Hywel  dha :  Hyv^el  ai  mab  Kadell  Brenbin 
Kymry  a  wnaetb  trvy  rat  Duv  a  dyrwest  a  gwedi  can  oed  eidav  ef 
Kymry  yn  y  tbervyn.  Nyt  amgen  petivar  Cantref  a  tbrigein  Debeu- 
barth.  A  deunav  Cantref  Gwyned.  A  tbri  vgeintref  tra cbyrcbell  .  A 
ibiivgeintref  Buellt.  Ac  yny  tervyn  buunu  nyt  ....  neb  aruuntvy 
....  I  Sef  yd  oed  dryc  dedueu  a  dryc  Kyfreitheu  kyn  noc  ef  &c.  .  .  . 

*  "Servatur  iu  libro  Doomesday  penes  Rememoratorem  Regis  Westm.,  A.D, 
168j." 

t  The  dots  are  so  in  tlie  MS. 


MOSTYN    MANUSCRIPT    212.  279 

ends  :  O  Iri  mod  y  kadernlieir  gwys.  O  tyston,  neu  o  vechaiaom,  neii 
o  avael.  Gwys  gan  tyston  ny  wneir  pan  onynt  pan  of)'nn8r  tir  o  ach  au 
etryt.  ac  o  gofynnir  tir  yn  aragen  no  hynny  neu  peth  arall  O  gvedir  uii 
wys  ae  tbygu  ;  trvy  vechniaeth  Y  kymhellir  yr  amddiffyniivr  y  attcb  ;  He 
y  pallo  mechniaeth  vn  weith  neu  y  treraycker  y  gwys  teirgweitli,  yno  y 
dylyir  kymryt  gauael,  ac  os  am  tir  y  byd  y  dadyl;  y  tir  a  euelir. 

This  copy  of  the    "  Gvventian  Code  "  stops  here. 


MS.  212.  Thk  Poetical  Works  of  David  ap  Gwilim.  Paper ; 
15^  X  5|  inches  ;  pages  a-d,  1-288  ;  written  circa  1600-30.  There  are 
apparently  three  different  hands  : — A=poems  numbered  1-20  (pp.  1-18)  ; 
B  =  poems  22-53  (pp.  19-47)  ;  C^  =  poems  55-107  (pp.  48-106) ;  and.. 
C^  =  poems  108-170  (pp.  106-171),  and  173-176  (pp.  214-217). 
Hands  A  and  B  have  a  strong  common  resemblance^  and  between 
C^  and  C^  there  may  be  only  a  difference  of  time  and  ink.  Poems  48, 
171,  and  172  are  in  hands  differing  respectively  from  the  rest  of  the 
MS.  and  from  one  another.  There  are  no  poems  numbered  21,  88,  and 
162,  but  two  poems  each  are  represented  by  the  numbers  4,  85,  and 
118,  so  that  the  total,  176,  is  correct.  Pages  164-191  ;  19.3-213  ; 
218-236;  238-242  ;  245-279  ;  281  ;  283-2S5are  blank.  The  foUowiug 
names  occur: — Robert  Stodart  (pp.  192  and  282);  Eichard  V/ynn 
(p.  192)  ;  Dauid  ap  gwilian  and  William  "Wynne  (p.  282)  ;  James  Wood 
and  Morgan  Donnell  (p.  282)  ;  Thomas  Salusbury  and  William  Stodart 
(p.  288). 

1  Kywydde  twf  kywiwddoeth     ,     .     .     •  a 
Ni  ddyly  hi  imi  nrwy.j 

2  Dyn  kannaid  donioc  kynncddyf     ....  6 
ynyn  lygad  gloyn  gloyw./ 

3  Kynnar  vodd  kain  arvoddvyd     ....  c 
Nith  yr  havl  vnwaith  ar  hon 

4  Heirdd  beirdd  veyrddyn  diledveirw     ....  d 
wrth  adail  a  wrthodais 

46.    Hoywdeg  riain  am  hvdai     ....  c 

hebddi  ni  bydda  fi  byw 

5  Deg  nithiad  doy  y  gwnevthvm     ....  / 
gwae  vi  ni  welwn  i  neb 

6  ILe  digri  y  bvm  heddiw     ....  g 
Bedlwyn  or  koyd  mwyn  ai  maeth 

7  Pwyntie  afrwydd  drwy/r/  flwyddyn     ....  h 
Yn  dywyll  ini  yn  deywoydd 

8  Fal  yr  oyddwn  fawl  rwyddaf    ....  * 
amen  am  wlltio  fy  mvn 

9  Myfi  sydd  devnydd  dig     ....  '' 
y  bydda  o  gwybyddir 

10  Ysgyiiarnog  ynghartref     .      .     .     •  ' 
anolo  vur  anwylyd 

11  Fal  yr  ooddwn  yraannos     ....  '" 
peidio  a  doedyd  pwy  ydiw 


280  MOSTYN   MANUSCRIPT   212. 

12  Kyrch  yr  eden  diaflednais    ....  a 
er  ys  mis  eres  vy  myw 

13  Gorllwyn  yr  wyf  ddyn  geirllaes     ....  b 
yn  oes  bvn  ddyvod  nos  byth 

14  Eres  i  ddavydd  oyryn     ....  c 
angav  am  avvav  Morvydd                                             Gr:  gryc 

13       Kynnofydd  kerdd  bvn  o  vn  vlwydJ     ....  d 

Tal  am  wawd  talym  oi  waith  D.  ap  Gicilim 

16  Gwyllt  yw  ni  wn  ai  gwell  dim     ....  e 
seren  bren  er  i  sorri                                                   Gr:  grijg 

17  Graift  y  plwyf  i  grefft  ai  plyg     ....  / 
oni  dawr  gwyn  ap  nvdd  im  dwyn                  D.  ap  givilim 

18  Dauydd  pan  nad  ydivar     ....  g 
Mogel  nid  mi  Rys  Meigen                                         Gr:  gryc 

19  Gruffyth  gryc  dirmyc  darmerth     ....  li 
syrbad  vydd  sayrhayd  vum                              D.  ap  Guilim 

20  Gweiruyl  -wawr  eddyl  ryddoeth     ....  i 
y  prydydd  daFydd  i  dad                                            Gr:  gryg 

22  Y  lleian  ddoeth  ai  Iliw  /  n  /  dda     ....   -  k 
fy  mvn  a  Nef  im  enaid                                     D.  ap  gicilim 

23  Hyder  gwelaf  ail  indeg     ....  / 
ag  annerch  dy  bvn  gennyd 

24  Fal  yr  oeddwn  gwyddwn  gel     ....  m 
itb  nawdd  a  duw  ith  noddi 

25  Gwyl  bedr  i  bvm  yn  edrych     ....  n 
Yn  anrlieg  bid  teg  bid  hagr 

26  Yr  het  vedw  da  ith  gedwir     ....  o 
gwaith  wyd  morfydd  Ihvyd  ai  Haw 

27  Y  kelynllwyn  kyfa  lownllwyth     ....  ^J 
gyssylldedig  gaer  brig  bron 

28  Doe  i  royddwn  dioer  eiddyl     ....  q 
llewpart  a  dart  yn  i  din 

29  Dysgais  ddwyn  kariad  esgyd     ....  r 
kowir  ni  mynegir  mwy 

30  Dydd  da  yt  y  gog  serchogfwyn     ....  s 
dygwn  y  fercb  deg  iawn  fain 

31  Tydi  yw  r  haf  tad  y  rhyflg     ....  t 
eilwaith  yr  baf  ai  lythr  hardd 

b.      Ryeb,  gwycb,  wrych,  wlych,  nycb,  drych,  drist,  &c.  /( 

32  Kardda  was  kar  ddewiswyrdd     ....  v 
Nid  yfvdd  neb  ond  ^for 

33  Rho  duw  yn  vn  rbaid  ini     .     .     .     .  w 
Yn  ochr  maen  ni  chara  mwy 

34  Kwrs  digwydd  kerais  degav     ....  x 
ai  Uvsc  i  ddial  fy  Hid 

35  Hawddamawr  mvrenfawr  maitb     ....  y 
penihyn  gloyw  feddyglyn  glas  / 

36  levan  ior  gwaywdan  gwiwdad     ....  « 
i  mi  y  myw  am  y  myd 


THE  POETRY   OF   DAVID    AP   GWILTM.  281 

37  Tr  wybrwynt  helynt  bylaw     ....  a 
Os  gwir  mae  anghowir  hi 

38  Doe  difiav  dydd  da  i  yfed     ....  j 
fyned  at  forfydd  feinael 

39  Y  llwyn  bedw  di  anedwydd     ....  c 
gwna  ddydd  rhwng  morfydd  a  mi 

40  A  mi  /u/  glaf  er  mwyn  gloywfercli     ....  d 
krekiek  nim  davvr  pei  krokid 

41  Ni  allaf  nid  af  o  dy     .     .     .     .  e 
plwm  oer  ar  glog  pie  maer  glaw 

42  Trvan  ir  dyllvan  deg     ....  / 
oddaitb  ymhob  pren  eiddew 

43  Tri  ffortbor  dygyfor  dig.    ....  y 
koed  briglaes  a  maes  i  mi 

44  Ef  aeth  heddiw  yn  ddiwael     ....  h 

Y  d^  leidr  y  del  adref 

4j       Dysgais  ryw  baradwys  gaink     ....  i 

ag  yn  kael  kativ  /  r  /  gaink  bonn  / 

46  Salm  im  kof  o  lyfr  ofydd     ....  U 
a  dalaf  bwyth  ffrwyth  y  ffridd 

47  Euryches  y  kae  mangoed     ....  I 
ar  vcha  fy  evryclies 

48  Ai  Uai  fy  rhan  0  annvn     ....  9» 

Y  raodwl  gwair  ai  madws 

49  Vchenaid  wedn  aflednais     ....  n 
fcithr  morfvdd  nim  dihydd  dyn 

50  Rho  duvv  bael  rhadav  helynt     ....  o 
J  dydd  brentisied  yw  dwyn 

51  Mwynddyn  tyred  ir  manddail     ....  p 
yn  rhydd  ond  y  dydd  ar  dail 

52  Doethym  i  ddinas  dethol     ....  q 
ar  sal  fy  henwal  fy  hvn 

53  Oed  am  rbiain  addfcindeg     ....  r 
ar  niwl  maith  im  anrhaith  mwy 

54  Myfi  feddaf  ystafell     ....  , 
mair  a  ro  ym  wair  er  i  mwyn 

55  Duw  gwyddiad  mae  da  gweddai f 

a  mair  i  gynnal  y  mai 

56  Mawr  ywr  gelfyddyd  a  maith     ....  ti 
yng  Iwy.sgoed  angel  esgyll 

57  Yr  alarch  ar  i  wiwlyn  ...  v 
teg  i  benu  ti  a  gai  i  bwyth 

58  Yr  eryr  hardd  arwyrain     ....  lo 
i  dramwy  serch  drimis  haf 

59  Tydi  yr  kariwrcb  fFwrch  ffowdr     ....  « 
dy  groesi  bryd  egroesen 

^0       Kynnar  fodd  kain  ar  feddfyd     ,     .   -.     ,  tf 

nilh  vr  haul  vnwaith  ar  hofi 


282  MOSTVN  MANUSCRIPT   212. 

61       Y  feich  or  fy naclilog  faen     ....  a 

ni  chawn  fod  yn  ordderch  yt 

G2       Dydd  da  yt  y  rliagor  forwyii     ....  h 

yn  was  doeth  oni  ystwytho 

63  gwae  a  garodd  gwag  eiriawl     ....  c 
ar  hir  hawddamor  yr  haf 

64  Karu  perchen  kae  arian     ....  d 
J  gorwedd  yn  y  bedd  byth 

65  IsTos  da  ir  fernos  dawel     ....  e 
trist  wy  na  bai  hwy  fy  hun 

66  Er  vn  verch  oerion  yw  fais     ....  f 
na  chwemis  oni  chymyd 

67  ILuniais  oed  yn  y  goedalld     ....  g 
er  chwarau  na  faddau  fi 

68  O  frytbill  fyfr  ieuthydd     ....  h 
dwg  yu  chwedlav  da  gennyd 

69  Y  ddyn  fwyn  addwyn  faenawl     ....  i 
o  bwyth  ir  karl  boeth  ir  koed 

70  A  mi  ar  deg  foregwaith     ....  k 
vfydcl  ar  dduw  i  ofal 

71  gwedi  dyfod  a  dofi     ....  I 
arwcb  i  min  ar  wrach  mwy 

72  Y  fun  araf  fain  eirian     ....  m 
i  fyw  ag  na  ddichon  fod 

73  Dodes  duw  da  o  dysfc  wyf     ....  n 
Y  Uwyn  ar  ben  morfudd  llwyd 

74  Gwae  ni  hil  eiddil  addaf     ....  o 
OS  gyr  mor  rhyfyr  yw  r  haf 

75  ffor  ydoedd  afrad.iur     .     .     .     .'  p 
yno  i  rel  yn  yr  aelwyd 

76  Vfydd  serchogion  ofeg     ....  g 
wyneb  y  rhwydd-deb  ai  rhoes 

77  ^for  aur  o  farwriaeth     ....  r 
hir  dy  gledd  heuir  dy  glod 

78  Da  i  rhed  ar  i  wared  ne  ar  oror     ....  * 
hwy  hvawdl  ofwy  fo  hoedl  ^for 

79  Henaint  anghowraint  a  hiraeth  a  ffoen     ....  t 
Uywyo  naf  huno  nef  i  henaint 

Haws  kael  afalav  ar  redyn  &c.     [4  lines].  m 

80  Di  dyr  deigr  difyr  ad  afael     ....  v 
gwawn  gredig  iawn  garw  i  dygiad 

81  Doe  klowais  mi  a  geisiais  gel     ....  w 
a  roddo  duw  i  rydderch 

82  llyfr  dwiied  dyfed  dyfyn  ar  windai     ....  x 
llywla  ddawn  iddaw  dduw  yw  noddi 

83  Dyfed  a  aommed  o  symvd  mawredd     ....  y 
och  beunydd  i  ddydd  a  ddoeth 

84  Arglwydd  kanou  swydd  vu  sud  mor  deyrn     ....  z 
naf  men  gloew  ddeon  arglwyddiaidd 


THE  POETRY  OF  DAVID  AV    (4W1LIM.  283 

85  Oesbraff  wyd  iessu  yspryd  gwiw  dofydj     ....  « 
da  i  sioseb  dy  fyw  siesus 

856.     Da  fvr  drindod  heb  dlodi     ....  i 

yn  dwyn  oil  bob  dyn  i  nef 

86  Pwy  yw  r  gwr  piav  r  goron     ....  c 
dan  i  nawdd  bob  dyn  i  nef 

87  Kredaf  i  naf  o  nefoedd     ....  d 
Amen  ag  ni  dduaai  mwy 

89  Da  lluniodd  daw  dull  iownwedd     ....  e 
Amen  ni  ddymvnwn  mwy 

90  Eagawr  mawr  gaer  mvr  gwyngalch     ....  f 
dwred  aur  a  deryw'r  dyn 

91  Madog  ap  gruffydd  wyddaer     ....  « 
da  gvttorn  duw  ai  gato 

92  Anfon  a  wnaeth  rhieinferch     ....  k 
Kar  ym  yw  karw  y  mae 

93  Kosbwr  y  marwol  bechawd     ....  { 
kalon  oer  ir  kul  or  nef 

94  rhoed  duw  hoedl  rhad  didlawd     ....  ;i 
hafod  oer  hi  a  fv  deg 

95  Modd  elw  ydwy  /  n  /  meddyliaw     ....  / 
o  rai  teg  deg  yn  y  dydd 

96  gwae  fi  na  wyr  y  forwyu     ....  j;j 
dos  dithav  frawd  i  law  ddiawl 

97  Kerbyd  lied  ynfyd  llydanfai  ysydd     ....  n, 
rhed  gwyddyd  yfed  gwaeddod  tefyrn 

b.       Dafydd  gae  merydd  gi  mall  &c.  (4  11.)  Bhi/s  Meigen  o 

98  Aerblank  yw  gruffydd  eirblyg     ....  „ 
rhefr  gwydd  gad  rhofi  ar  gwr 

99  Dafydd  fab  gwilym  ymy     ....  „ 
bellaeh  naw  llawenach  nef                                       Ch-;  Q-ri/a 

100  Trist  oedd  ddwyn  trais  kynhwynawl     ....  ,. 
ir  nef  gwiw  oedd  ef  ydd  aeth 

101  gwae  fardd  a  fai  gyfa  iorn     ....  g 
ymendith  yn  y  mowndir 

102  Deinkryd  mawr  ar  led  amkrain     .     .     .     ,  * 
a  hanl  a  ddattodai  hynn 

10.3       Oriav  hydr  yr  ehedydd     ....  ^ 

onid  el  i  hobel  heibiaw 

104  Kannaid  yw  r  nwyf  am  kynnail     ....  f, 
dy  obor  iydd  dav  gywydd  gain 

105  Yr  wylan  deg  ar  lanw  dioer     ....  y, 
fy  nihenydd  fydd  y  fereh 

106  llawea  nos  fav  llvniais  oed     ....  a; 
yn  i  byw  am  ofni  bvn 

107  gwae  fab  fv  gohelyth     ....  y 
ar  drws  gwichiedig  ar  dro 

108  Doe  yr  oeddwn  dan  orevddail     .... 

gowne  ar  gw  r  y  genav  z 


284  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   212. 

109  bevnydd  yr  wyf  i  boeni    ,     ,     .     .  « 
oi  ddaearv  ni  ddorwn 

110  Hawddamor  glwysgor  glasgoed     ....  6 
devddrwg  am  i  wladeiddrwydd 

111  Yr  adlaesferch  wawr  dlosfain     ....  c 
■wytbliw  dydd  oth  loyw  dyddyn 

112  Karv  dyn  ifank  hirwen     ....  d 
adeilad  serch  er  merch  mwy 

113  gidag  ieir  i  kei  dy  garv     ....  e 
i  fynydd  ni  wybydd  neb 

114)       Hanfo  well  iti  benferch     ....  f 

maint  augen  meinwen  am  wr 

115  Vchel  y  bvm  yn  ochi     ....  g 
diav  yn  wir  o  daw  y  nos 

116  soniais  feinwar  am  garv     ....  h 
om  blaen  im  hoi  ffol  i  ffoes 

117  Y  ddyn  megis  gwen  or  ddol     ....  i 
dy  wedd  doa  a  dyddiae  daed 

118  Y  fran  dreigl  ymwan  draw     ....  k 
i  drais  oddiar  y  kae  draw 

1186.    Ami  uoswaith  nid  gwaith  gwycb     ....  I 

ymddiodde  /  n  /  well  i  raddiddan 

.1 1 9       Tydi  hyddif  y  tewddwfr     ....  m 

arall  a  bwyall  biav 

120  A  fv  ddim  ddamwein  breiddfyw     ....  n 
bolldod  brath  mab  alldud  brycb 

121  Kadi  dyn  ^fank  ydwyd     ....  o 
cbwedl  ond  duw  a  chad! 

122  Y  dydd  o  wynfyd  eiddig     ....  p 
ar  y  gwanwyn  oer  gwnawg 

123  Y  gynil  fetch  ganol  fain     ....  q 
wylld  i  Biv  a  melldith  ddyw 

124  Kariad  ar  ddyn  anwadal     ....  »• 
barn  iawn  rhof  a  gwawn  i  gwedd 

125  Gwell  yn  niwedd  fforfedd  ffug     ....  s 
y  llw  a  roes  morfudd  Uwyd 

l!il6       Morfudd  weddaidd  anghowir     ....  t 

ochai  dda  o  chomeddy 

127  Twf  y  dyn  tyfiad  enid     ....  n 
mynwavr  fvant  ym  vnwaith 

128  A  gerddodd  neb  er  gordderch     ....  v 
J  toroves  y  korff  trvan 

-129       Dwynwen  deigr  arien  degwch     .     ,     ,     .  id 

ir  em  wyryf  roi  ymwared 

130  Klo  a  roed  ar  ddrws  y  ty     .     .     .     .  w 
yma  y  ryw  ag  mae  rwyd 

131  Drud  yr  adwaenwn  dy  dro     ,     .  .  i/ 
ysgwd  pan  fo  gwag  ysgil 


.THE  POETRY  OF   DAVID   AP   GWILIM.  285 

132  Ochan  fi  drueiii  drvm     ....  o 
dydd  gv  i\v  charv  o  chair 

133  Devne  reiry  dyu  oreuryw     ....  j 
air  chwerw  am  wr  a  chorvii 

134  Je  galoii  bengrou  bach     ....  c 
heulweii  o  seren  y  serch 

135  J  sercli  a  roes  merch  i  mi     .     .     .     .  d 
ai  mawl  gwynn  i  fyd  ai  medd 

136  By  gariad  (leg  i  goroen     ....  e 
kymmer  dy  hvn  yt  fvn  fi 

137  mawr  yw  r  drafael  nath  welwn     ....  f 
ne  ddwyn  galarwisg  o  ddv 

138  Karv  rwyf  gwaith  hirnwyf  gwylld     ....  g 
ar  grog  fyw  fynnv  gwraig  fyth. 

139  Dyddgv  liw  dydd  goleuaf     ....  h 
diystyr  gwall  awyr  Uif 

140  Dyddgv  diwaradwydd  gamp     ....  i 
fy  nyn  pryd  natli  fynno  neb 

141  Teg  forfvdd  tegav  eiirfalch     ....  k 
kymod  liw  manod  a  mi 

142  Dyddgwaith  dibech  oedd  echdoe     ....  I 
aha  gwraig  y  bwa  bach 

143  Hawddamawr  ddevlawr  ddilyth     ....  m 
am  hoewddyn  yina  heddiw 

144  Tydi  'r  bwth  tim-hwfh  twn     ....  » 
dafydd  ach  rhoes  da  foes  fv 

145  Y  tafod  nid  wyd  hyfedr     ....  o 
gael  iti  dwyll  m'ynn  gwlad  duw 

146  llyma  boen  lie  mae  bevnydd     ....  p 
J  kae  fwyd  i  kyfodes 

147  Karv  dyn  lygeutv  Iwyd     ....  q 
a  saint  roi  pardwn  i  serch 

148  Y  draeinllwyn  glas  vrddasawl     ....  »• 
a  cherdd  kyn  farwed  a  chi 

149  prid  o  swydd  pi-udais  iddi     ....  s 
a  men  ag  ni  chana  i  mwy 

150  Dydd  da  ir  draenllwyn  a  wynai     ....  t- 
oth  law  ith  fath  eilwaith  fai 

.  151       Y  mae  ym  dwlk  mi  am  dyn     ....  u 

addoli  fyth  ir  ddelw  fair 

152  Rodiais  er  pan  welais  weun      ....  v 
k  *  #  t  vnwaith  kanwaith  y  kair 

153  Yr  eogwas  or  eigiawn     ....  w 
ai  meddylio  gado  i  gwr 

154  Gildiais  fal  gildiwr  ar  fin     .     .     .     .  w 
hawdd  yf  a  wyl  i  hoewddyn 

155  llvniais  oed  is  mangoed  mai     ....  y 
gan  y  lloer  fvn  oi  llwyr  fodd 


286  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT  212. 

1,56       Gwawr  bryd  o  gaer  brydur     ....  a 

ag  ar  Hall  egor  y  llys 

157  Digio  r  wyf  am  liw  cwyn     ....  J 
i  gysgod  wybv  i  gysgv 

158  Rbai  o  fercbed  y  gwledydj     ....  c 
nag  iailles  mewn  gwisg  evrlliw 

159  Ni  thybiais  ddewrdrais  ddirdra     ....  d 
yna  gwyr  ddiwnaw  gwedd 

160  Doe  ymberigl  y  kiglef     ....  e 
am  avr  o  ddyn  marw  ydd  wyf 

161  Y  donn  beirychlonu  grochlas     ....  f 
nam  Uudd  at  forfudd  feurferch 

163  Y  fercb  borfFor  i  thorvn     ....  « 
tegach  yw  bono  no  neb 

164  Rhybir  wyd  gyflwyd  goflvn     ....  h 
kalon  serchog  sybei'w  fydd 

165  Vn  agwedd  oferedd  fv     .     .     .     .  i 
diried  ym  di weired  yw 

166  Gwae  fi  o  gariad  gwiw  fvn     ....  k 
o  lys  oddail  leisiav  oedd  well 

167  Keisio  yn  lew  eb  dewi     ....  / 
er  ai  keidw  evrog  hoewdal 

168  Digwsg  fvm  am  ail  degav     ....  m 
gida  tbi  am  gad  ith  oes 

169  Rhidill  budolaidd  rhydwn     ....  n 
gida  duw  i  gad^yd  ef 

170  Kywydd  y  krasv  pan  losgodd  D.  ap  G.  odyn  i  dad 

Pell  i  kerddais  i  geisiaw     ....  o 

am  karthen  din  drosben  draw 

171  Pwy  yw  r  gore  pie'r  goron     ....  p 
dan  i  nawdd  fenaid  i  ne 

172  Davydd  y  ssydd  yn  dofyn     ....  q 
kel  fvn  tra  kelwy  finnav 

17.3       Fal  yr  oedd  fawr  i  hafrad     ....  r 

kafodd  y  dyn  i  enaid 

174  Nid  oes  dycbymig  y  mon     ....  .« 
o  gyd  wall  a  gad  felly 

175  Yr  wyfi  yn  karv  dyn     ....  t 
a  wnel  dwyll  ef  a  dwyllir 

176  Mi  ii  wnaf  ag  a  wnaf    ....  u 
ir  keiliog  rbedyn  kynta  fo 


MS.  212^'  PART  I. — Heraldry  with  coloured  illustrations  of  the 
coats  of  arms  of  the  Britons  &c.,  and  of  the  princes  of  North  and 
South  Wales,  and  also  the  pedigrees  of  a  certain  number  of  them. 
Paper;  8x5f  inches;  pages  1-136  (pages  1-28  which  are  torn  and 
imperfect  have  been  interleaved),  and  many  others  which  were  curled 
and  torn  at  the  outer  margin  have  been  repaired  ;  second  half  of  the 


GENEALOGY.  287 

xvitli  ccntur)'— possibly  iu  the  anlograph  of  Thomas  Jones  aliiis  Tivm 
Sion  Catti ;  bouud  with  parts  ii.  and  iii.  in  white  vellum. 
1-4  &  13-18.  Mere  fragments  of  these  pages  remain. 
5.  A  fragment  with  the  name  of  "  Kichakd  Adams  "  ia  the  same 
hand  as  the  MS. 

7.  Gweithred  fErwy  *  *  *  *  ]  ffertlivnassav  y  llyfr  hwn  *  *  *  #  | 
dattgan   a  tliraythv  gwohe[lyth  *  *  ]  hyneiiavthev  y   kambe[ry  #  *  ] 

brytlanieid  nev  droya   [newydd ac  vcllv  thonia[s]  #  *  *  * 

yngwlad  gredigio[un]  *  *  «  dehav  barth :  trvvv  *****  llyfrav 
hen  athrawion  *  *  *  *  a  gweithredoedd :  Pendefigion  g[wlad]  kamber: 
ac  a  vyrfyriodd  kyssylldiad  y  llyfr  hwnn  ynghvd  .  .  .  pob  penned  yni 
bennod:  ne  lith  yn  i  lith  ....  a  ffob  plwyf  yn  i  blwyf  &c. 

9.  Y  darlleywyr  boncdi[gaidd  *  *  *  ]  treigl  ne  hanes  *  *  «  &c. 
12.  "Watgin  vychan  o  Hergest  married  sabell  daughter  to  syr  James 
b.  of  garfikl,  &c. 

19.  II  Ef  a  ddyssgodd  y  [bob]l  i  aredig  y  ddavar  yn  ol  llif  noe  .  .  . 
kam  ap  noe  ar  bryttauied  ai  galwai  ef  Hv  gadarn,  &c.  Then  follow 
Gwehelyth  Noe  hen  (p.  20),  jach  *  «  *  *  ap  henwyn  (p.  23),  &e. 

Then  follow  the  arms  and  pedigrees  of  Aydaf  (p.  30),  Maxen  (p.  31), 
Gwrtheyrn  ap  gwrthenay,  (Browghan  &  Trehayrne  ap  Enon)  (p.  32), 
Arthyr  (p.  33),  Vrien  Reged  (34),  Karadog  vreychvras  (35),  Karedig 
ap  Kynedda  Wledig  &  Brychan  ap  afallach  (36),  Brochwel  yssgithrog 
(37),  and  the  arms  onlyofElffin  ap  gwyddno,  Karedig  ab  Kj^nedda 
wledig  (38),  Kadrod  Kalchvynydd,  yrion  Rheged*  (39),  (Arg:  Rhyes 
gieug),  L.  of  fflynt,  Madog  danwrth  (40). 

Then  follow  the  arms  and  pedigrees  of  Maylgwn  gwynedd  (42), 
Kadwaladr  vendigaid  (43),  Rodri  mawr  (45),'|"  Rys  ap  tewdwr  (48), 
Gr:  ap  Kynan  (52),  Bleddyn  ap  Kynfyn  (54),  ^estin  ap  gwrgant  (57),t 
Elystan  Glodrydd  .  .  tywssog  .  .  Rwng  gwy  a  hafren  a  chronigl  yn  y 
byd  nis  adwen  yn  dwyn  kofiadyriaeth  am  dano  eithr  jachav  ac  arfav, 
&c.  (62). 

63.  ILyma  lie  treithir  bellach  am  Jachav  ac  arfav  arglwijddi 
Kymry,  but  the  arms  only  are  given  of  Eiwarch^  ap  bran  &  Hwl'a  ap 
Kynddelw  (64),  Gweirydd  ap  Rys  &  Kilmin  troyty  (65),  Golhvyn  ap 
tango  &  Maylog  Krwm  (66),  Nefydd  Hardd  &  Merchydd  (67), 
Marchweithion  &  Braint  Hir  (68),  Hedd  molwynog  &  Edwin  frenin 
(69),  Ednowain  benndew,  &  Evnydd  ap  gwergonwy  (70),  Owain  ap 
Brodwen,  (gr:  maylor,  madog  or  hendvr  &  Reynald  Kyng  of  man)  (71), 
arg:  lewelyn  Brenin  gwynedd  &  Owyn  Gwynedd  (72),^  Edenyvet 
vychan,  da  le  mar,  Tho:  ap  Rhodri,  &  gi-:  ap  dd:  g05  ap  gr:  ap  ll'n  ap 
Jer:  drwyndwn  (73),  mathraval,  (llowarch  holbwrch  of  Rood,  bledrws 
of  powis)  S"^  Dd:  hanmer,  (ho:  ap  ^eva  lord  arwystly)  (74),  ll'n  avr 
dorehog,   tydyr   trevor,  ]fthel   velyn,   hova   ap  kynverig  ap   rhiwallon 

*  The  arms  here  diifer  from  those  on  p.  34  above. 

t  Llyma  He  treythir  am  bymp  evrbost  kymry  .  .  .  Eys  ap  Tewdwr,  Gr:  ap 
Kynan,  bleddyn  ap  Kynfyn  o  bowys,  ^estyn  ap  Gwrgan  y  morganwg,  Elystan 
glodrydd  Rhwng  gwy  a  hafren. 

X  "  Brenhiniaeth  morganwg  a  alwent  o  benn  pent  Kaer  vyrdin  i  benn  pont  Kaer 
loyw.  Eithr  yn  amser  Howel  dda  efo  a  arddelwodd  ystrad  yw  ac  eas,  &c.  Vellv 
hefyd  i  dowaid  hen  lyfr  .  .  yssy  ymherchenogaeth  mastr  Missiard  thomas  o  Ynvs 
arwed  ynglyn  nedd  .  .  ■  mal  i  mae  y  kwbl  .  .  yn  llyfr  teilaw  .  .  awdyr  llyfr 
E.  Thomas."    See  Book  of  Llan  D&v,  p.  247. 

§  Liwarch  ap  Bran  is  an  exception.     A  brief  pedigree  of  him  is  given. 

1[  "  Yr  ssaison  trychion  i  mae  tro  medd  y  mowrddysk  a  mirthin  ywr  athro 

dyw  yn  ych  mysk  ary  chwith  dro  ir  amser  ar  vyrder  y  vo  Rnh;  dij." 


288  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   212li. 

(75),  Madog  or  liendwr,  Morgan  ap  tyrLayarn,  Sionas  ap  gronwy  & 
"koedmors"  (77),  dd:  ap  ithel  vychan,  elidr  ap  Rys  ssais,  ssyr  hvvv 
konnwy  &  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Jot:  (79),  Cradog  ap  Gwewllihan  (80), 
Ho:  varf  veinog,  ll'n  ap  viiyr,  Eydid  vlaidd  o  benllyn  &  ^arddyr  ov 
I'.echwedd  (81),  Treliayrn  go}  ap  H'n  ap  Madog  ap  Ries  (82),  tryhayani 
or  rros,  eiuion  ap  kyhelyn,  egin  ap  kradog,  &  blaidd  ap  elvarch  (83), 
cinion  ap  ^efan  ap  madog,  kadwgan  ap  bleddyn  ap  Kynfyn,  kadrod  hardd 
yniou  &  howel  koedmor  (85),  einion  efyll  o  bowys,  Kydwaladr  ap 
gronwy  argl:  bochnanf,  marchan,  &  blaidd  rhydd  or  gest  (87)  Madog  ap 
yrien  ofain  owynedd,  Kynfrig  efell,  Syr  gr:  llwyd,  &  tegwared  aprhobert 
(89),  Madog  ap  iorwerth,  &  trystan  (90)  :  henceforward  brief  pedi- 
grees are  given  as  well  as  the  arms :  Gwaithvoed  arg:  kredlgiawn 
gwent  a  gwinfai  ac  yr  oedd  ef  yn  amser  Edw:  konffessor  (91),  Kydifor 
ap  gwaith  voed  o  Ian  badarn  odwin,  &  Gwerystau  ap  gwaith  vocd  o 
bowys  (93),  Kydrych  ap  gwaith  voed  arg:  gwinfai  &  Edyn  owain  ap 
gwaith  voed  essgob  llan  badarn  vawr  (94),  Ayddan  ap  gwaith  voed  arg: 
y  grissmwnt  &  Gwynn  ap  gwaith  foed  arg:  trewynn  or  kastell  gwynii 
yngwent  (95),  Bach  ap  gwaithvoed  arg:  yr  yssgynfraith  yngwent  & 
ILawddeu  ap  for:  ap  Ychdryd  of  ywch  avron  (96),  Kydifor  ap  dinawal 
ap  gwynn  of  gilfach  wenn  in  is  avron  (97)  vtowvn  vnghaerdigion  (98). 

99.  Brenhiniaeth  Dijfed  oedd  Ewng  teifi  a  tbowi  o  iynn  Deifi  a  blaen 
towi  hyd  y  mlaen  tir  dewi  ac  vellv  kannol  y  vrenhiniaeth  a  oiddid  yni 
gadol  yn  y  porth  towyll  ynghaer  vyrddin 

Mevrvg  vrenin  Dyfed  .  .  .  o  honaw  ef  i  mae  boneddigion  Kydweii  .  .  y 
dwnns  ar  kydwgans 

101.  Tydwai  ap  Rodri  mawr  oedd  vrenin  Dyfed  .  .  .  i  etifeddef  oedd 
Meyryg  koch  arg:  kayo:  (S'  James  Wiliams  knight)  (102),  Hen 
Merfyn  vrych  ap  Mordaf  had  o  gil  y  kwm  &  Rydderch  ap  Tewdwr 
arg:  mab  elfyw  (103),  sion  benarw  kyff  kenedl  o  Ian  y  byddeir  (104), 
Syr  Gr:  ap  elidr  o  sswydd  gaer  &  gronwgoch  o  langathen  ap  elidr  goeh 
(105),  Kydifor  vawr  ap  gwynn  ap  goUvvyn  o  flaen  kvch  &  bledri  ap 
kydifor  arg:  gwinfai  kyfi  kenedl  y  ffylipps  a  morganied  gwent  (107), 
11  well  llawen  fawr  (108),  Gwgan  ap  gwgan  ap  blaidd  o  gastell  gwis  & 
gwrwared  ap  gwilim  o  Gemais  kyfl-  kened/  y  bowens  a  gwyr  y  towynn 
(109),  Syr  Elidr  ddv  o  is  Kennenn  ap  elidr  ap  Rys  (IIJ),  Crodock  of 
Newton,  llwyd  of  LanstvfFan  &  philip  ap  euor  ( 1 12),  Tir  gwvr — gr:  gsvvr 
ap  kydifor,  &  kyradog  ap  vnvr  (113),  Oadugan  ap  plethin  (114),  Einon 
ap  gollwyn  arg:  ssaing  hennvdd  &c.  (115),  Kydifor  ap  kydfrych  .  .  a 
byriodawdd  nest*  verch  madog  ap  kedrod  ap  einion  ac  oi  hachos  hi  i 
roedd  ef  yn  argl:  ssainghenydd  .  .  ai  fab  oedd  ^^for  pettif  &c.  (119), 
Syr  rhaff  maylor  arg:  kibwr  ymorgnnwg  (120),  ^vor  ap  einon  kyff 
kenedl  ll'n  brenn  (121),Matlie  ap  ifeuan  ap  gr:  gethin  (122),  missging: 
kynfyn  vychan  o  benn  llwyn  (123),  Howel,  arg:  Kaerlleon  a  gwevn  llwg, 
ap  f  er:  ap  Owain  (124),  Syr  Morgan  ap  Mred:  arg:  llan  ym  ddyfri  a  ssain 
kler  a  ehyfoeth  Mred:  a  thre/r/  deigr  (125),  bleddyn  brodssber  o  went, 
Syr  John  Morgan  o  dref  deigyr  &  Syi-  J  Laurence  de  raerbury  (126), 
ILywelyn  ap  fvor  ap  plcdri  o  dref  deigr,  &  vnvr  brenin  gwent  (127), 
Seissyllt  ap  dyfnwal  arg:  gyfeni  a  gwent  genol  .  .  oedd  briod  a  merch 
gr:  ap  Eys  ap  tewdwr,  &  Adam  ap  kynaethwy  oedd  gyff  kenedl  yr 
herbardiaid  a  gwilymaid  gwent  (128),  Bleddyn  ap  maenai-ch  argl: 
byrcheiniog  (129),  Moreiddic  warr  wynn  kyff  kenedl  kantre  sselyf  ag 
arg:  niaynor (130),  Kniwillin  ap  Eys  goch  kyff  kenedl  ystrad  yw  ac 

*  "Henw  /r/  uesthonn  mae  fforest  jn  i  ddwyn  y  merthyr  Tydfyl  hyd  heddiw." — 
Marginal  note. 

■]■  "  Hynn  oil  a  dystiolaytha  y  Eol  vawr  o  waith  morgan  abad  o  ystrad  fflyr  /  hen 
athro  Kyfarwydd." 


GENEALOGY.  289 

o  hanovoi  tyf  gwjr  pennBos  a  Han  ofor  (131),  Otvain  gethin  arg:  tal  y 
llynn  (132) — four  folios  have  been  cut  out  here — then  follow  4  pages  of 
the  arms  of  Gadenie,  Wodfourd,  Lord  Mounlioye,  Bateman,  '^iy  Albaue 
Stepnethe,  Awbrey,  Gaunter,  Havard,  &c. 


PAET  II.— The  pedigrees  of  the  MOTHERS  of  some  of  the 
principal  families  in  Wales,  together  with  a  description  of  their  coats 
of  arms.  Paper;  8|x6  inches;  pages  137-78  with  the  outer  margins 
curled  and  frayed  ;  second  half  of  the  xvtth  century. 

137  Y  LLECHWEDD  VCHA :  llyma  rhol  o  iache  Robert  ap  Rich; 
ap  Rob:  ap  Wm:  ap  Mred:  o  tanfair  fechan 

Mam  Rob:  oedd  marged  V5  Tho:  0  baris,  mam  Marged  V5  Tho:  oedd 
Margedw^  Rees  ap  IL'n  (138),  Mam  marged  V5  R.  ap  IL'n  oedd  Marged 
V3  Roes  ap  Kynwrig. 

139  Mam  Rees  ap  IL'n  ap  hwlkin  0  vodychen  oedd  mali  v.  ^euaa 
Uoyd,  mam  mali  oedd  gwenhwyfar  v.  Veirig  llwyd,  mam  Gvvcnhwyfar 
oedd  valid  v.  Ho:  pickyll  o  vaylor. 

141  Mam  IL'n  ap  hwlkyn  oedd  erddylad  v.  dd:  ap  ^erwerth,  mam 
orddylad  oedd  valid  v.  madog  gloddaith,  mam  malld  =:  deili  v.  Syr  Gr: 
llwyd  0  foD,  m.  deili  =  gwenllian  v.  gynan  ap  Ow:  Gwynedd  (142) 

143  mam  hwlkyn  ap  ho:  =  yngharad  v.  ho:  ap  kynwrig 
b.     m.  ho:  ap  f  erwerth  ddv  =  Gwenllian  v.  mred  benhir 

144  m.  ^er:  ddv  =  gtoladvs  v.  ho:  ap  ^er;  ap  Kadwgan  &c. 

b.  m.  fer:  ap  gr:  —  Gwenllian  v.  Ririd  vlaidd 

c.  m.  Thomas  o  baris  =  morvydd  v.  tvdvr  ap  gl'm  0  lys  dvlas 

145  m.  Syr  Wm:  ap  Wm:  Vychan  =  alis  v.  Syr  Wm.  Dalton. 

a.  m.  alls  =  merch  arg  :  klifford 

6.    m.  W.  V"  Siambrlen  hen  =  sionedstanle  .  .  .  o  stanle  wltwn 

146  m.   Gl'm  ap  grifS.  =  generys  v.  madog  ap  gronw  vychan  a  mam 

generys  =  Mared  v.  Rotbert  ap  ^erwarth  &c. 

147  m.  madog  ap  gronw  vychan  =  generys  v,  hwfa  ap  ^er  &c. 

b.  va.  Gronw  vychan  ap  gronw  =  morvydd  v.  meirig  arg:  G went  &c. 

148  m.  gronw  ap  Ednyfed  fychan  =  gwenllian  v.  yr  arg:  Rees. 

b.     m.  gr:  ap  gwilim  ap  gr:  =  yngharad  v.  gr:  ap  dd:  ap  tvdr  &c. 

149  ra.  gwilim  ap  gr:  ap  heilin  =;  gwenhwyfar  v.  ^eu:  ap  gr:  &c. 
6.     m.  Gr:  ap  heilin  ap  S''  tvdr  =  merch  ywain  ap  pleddyn  &c. 

160     m.  heilin  ap  S"^  Gr;  tvdr=:acZ/e«  v.  Rich:  ap  Kadwalader  &c. 

b.  m.  S'  tvder  ap  Ednyf:  fychan  =  v.  llowarch  ap  Bran 

c.  m.  Ednyfed  vychan  ap  kynfrig  =  yngharad  v.  hwfa  ap  Kynwrig 

&c.,  a  mam  yngharad  =:  gwenllian  v.  ywain  Gwynedd 

151  m.  Kynwrig  ap  ]fer:  =  verch  Ririd  ap  passgen 

b,  m.  Richard  ap  Rob:  ap  Wm:  =  Katring  v.  tho:  held 

c.  m.  Rob:  ap  Wm:  ap  Mred:  =  Myfanwy  v.  Jeu:  ap  mred: 

152  m.  Wm:  ap  Mred  ap  Rees  =  yngharad  v.  dd:  arg:  towyn  o 

gefyn  melgoyd 
b.     m.  Mred:  ap  Rees  ap  ^eu:  llwyd  =-  elsbeth  v.  gl'm  ap  gr: 

153  m.  gwilim  ap  gr:  =:  Generys  v.  madog  ap  gronw  vychan  &c.  a 

154  m.  generys  =  generys  v.  Rob:  ap  ^er: 

b.     m.  Gr:  ap  gwilim  =  Yngharad  v.  gr:  ap  dd:  ap  tvdr  &o. 

155  m.  gwilim  ap  gr:  hyna  ap  heilin  =  gwenhwyfar  v.  ^eu:  ap  gr:  ap 

madog  ddv  &c.j  a  m.  gwenhwyfar  =  anes  v.  Ow:  ap  bleddjn 
166    m.  madog  ap  gronw  vychan  =  generys  v.  hwfa  ap  Jar: 
b.     m.  Tvdr  Trefor^arll  henffordd  =  Rieimgar  v.  ac  aeres  llvddoka 
e    87130.  X 


290  MOSTYN  MANUSCRIPT   21 2  B. 

J  57     m.  gronw  vychan  ap  gronw  =;  morvydd  v.  meirig  arg:  gwent 
b.     m.  meirig  arg:  gwent  :=  gwenllian  v.  ho:  vychan  &c. 

158  m.  gronw  ap  ednyfed  =  cfvoenllian  v.  yr  arg:  Rees  &c. 

h.  m.  Rees  ap^eu:  llwyd  =  marged  v.  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  &c, 

159  m.  marged  =  gwladus  v.  gr:  ap  ho:  y  pydole  &c. 

160  m.  ho:  y  pydole  ap  gr:  ap  ^er:  =■  gwenllian  v.  ririd  flaidd  &c.  a 
h.  m.  gwenllian  =  gwenllian  v.  ednyfed  ap  kynfrig  &c. 

161  m.  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  [ap  dd:  goch]=>nared  v.  ac  aeres  tudr  ap 

^er:  &c.  a  m.  mared  =  tanglwyst  v.  niadog  ap  Kyfnerth 

162  m.  gr:  ap  dd:  goch  =  Angharad  v.  heilin  ap  S""  tvdr  &c.  a  m. 

angharad  =  anes  v.  bleddyn  ap  ow:  brogyntvn 

163  m'.  madog  ap  mred:  ap  bleddyn  ■=  hvnvdd  v.  evnydd  ap  g  werngwy 

&c.,  a  m.  hvnydd  v.  evnvdd  =  gwenllian  v.  Rees  ap  marchan 

164  m.  evnydd  =  elnor  v.  ll'n  ap  dolffia  &c. 

b.  in.  mred:  ap  pleddyn  =  havr  v.  ac  aeres  Gillin  ap  y  blaidd  Rvdd 

c.  m.  bleddyn  ap  Kynvyn  =  angharad  v.  mred:  ap  Ow:  ap  ho:  dda 

165  m.  Rodri  mawr  =  essylld  v.  kynan  dindaethwy  &c. 

b.     m.  heilin   ap  S"^  tvdr  =  adles  v.  rikard    ap  kadwaladr  8sc.,  a 
m.  adles  ==  anes  v.  gwyn  ap  eginirap  kollwyn  &c. 

166  m.  rikard  ap  kadwaladr  ap  gr:  ap  k.  =  adles  v.  ^arll  klar  &c. 
b.     m.    S'  tvdr  ap  ednyfed  fychan  =  tanglwst  v.  llowarch  ap  Bran 

a  mam  tanglwyst  =  anes  v.  Ronw  ap  Ow :  ap  Edwin  &e. 
a  m.  anes  =  genilles  v.  hoedliw  ap  ^thel 

168  m.  dd:  ap  gr:  ap  ll'n  =  Ranell  v.  Reinalld  brenin  manaw 
b.     m.  gr:  ap  ll'n  ap  jfer:  =  tanglwst  v.  llowarch  vychan 

169  lu.  ll'n  ap  ^er:  drwyndwn  =:  mared  v.  madog  ap  mred:  a  m. 

mared  =  svwssarta  v.  gr:  ap  kynan  &c.  a  m.   svwssana  = 
angharad  v.  ow:  ap  Edwin  &c. 

170  m.    ]feu:  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  gronw  =  #«re^Ztc«^  V.  gwrgenavy  pys 

171  m.  gr:  ap  gronw  =  niali  v.  madog  vychan  ap  mad:  grwm  &c. 

172  m.  nest  v.  Hwlkyn  llwyd  =  nest  v.  Kyn:  ap  Mred: 

b.  m.  kyn:  ap  Mred:  ddv  =  nest  v.  Jthel  vychan 

c.  m.  nest  v.  Kynwrig  =  yngarad  v.  madog  ap  gronw 

d.  m.  mred:  ddv  =  adis  v.   grono   ap  eden:   vychan   &c.,  a  mam 

alls  =  morfydd  v.  veirig  arg:  gwent 

e.  m.  grono  ap  eden:  v"  ap  kyn:  =  gwenllian  v.  gr:  ap  gr:  ap  rys 

173  Mae  heddiw  ym  wahoddion 

at  geirw  kymydav  mon     .     .     .     . 

main  ai  gwyrth  mon  ai  gorthir  Anon 

175-8.  A  brief  description  of  the  arms  of  the  best-known  families  in 
North  Wales— the  last  leaf  being  imperfect  and  rotten. 


PART  II r.— Poetry.  JPaper ;  8 J  x  6^  inches  ;  _ pages  179-202— of 
these,  190-202  (=155-68  in  original  paging)  are  in  the  autograph  of 
John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyfdy. 

179     "  To  my  honored  frind  M'  John  Jones  of  Gelli  lyfdv." 

"  To  y'  right  reverend  ffather  in  God  George  Lord  Bp.  of  St.  Asaph  " 

Then  follow  entries  with  the  sigaatures  of  John  Coniyay,  Wm.  Parry,  and  Henry 
Kenricke. 

181  A  note  of  what  moneys  I  receaued  from  the  Tenants  in  fflint  shire  Denbigh 
shire  &  Anglesey  for  the  yeare  ending  at  Alsaints  1667  .  &c. 

Pages  180,  182,  184-89  are  blank. 


CAERWYS   EISTEBVOD.       1568.  291 

.  190  JLyma  vrevddwyd  a  ddychmygwyd  ac  a  wnaed  mewn  mydr  ar 
ddvll  araith  i  gan  ffowk  llwyd  fychan  o  Henllan  :  a  Risiart  vychan  a 
Sion  Hvws  fal  ydoeded  i  mi  yny  lie  y  maent  yn  adrodd  beie  a  chani- 
wedde  y  byd  hvmn  pob  gradd  yn  i  gradd  or  vchaf  ir  issaf:  ac  yn  y 
diwedd  y  mae  lief  yn  dehongly  y  Brevddwyd.j 

A.in  vi  noswaith  or  gaiaf 

yn  vyngwely  yn  ysmalaf     .     ■     •     gwelwn  vrevddwyd     .     . 

yr  oedd  yuo  rai  /n/  kadw  hobe     .... 

rhai  mawr  oedd  i  brynnv 

a  rhai  bychain  oedd  i  werthv  G-  218)1|— end  wanting. 


The  Commission  of  the  CAERwrs  Eistebvod  1568. 

By  the  Quene. 

Elizabeth  by  the  grace  of  god  of  England  ffraunce  and  ^reland 
Quene  defendo'  of  the  fayth  &c.  To  our  trustie  and  right  wclbeloued 
S"-  Richard  Bulkley  knight,  S''  Rees  Gruffith  knight,  Ellice  Price 
Esquio'  docto''  in  CJyvill  Lawe,  and  one  of  our  Counsaill  in  our  marches 
of  wales  -william  mostyn,  ^cu«n  Uoyd  of  Yale,  John  Salusbury  of  Ruge, 
Rees  Thomas,  Maurice  wynne,  wittm  Lewis,  Peres  mostyn,  Owen 
John  ap  ho"  vaughan,  John  wiHra  ap  John,  John  Lewis  oweu,  moria 
gniffyth,  Symound  Tlieloall,  John  Gruffyth,  Ellice  ap  w"  lloyd,  Rob' 
Puleston,  harry  aparry,  william  Glynne  and  Rees  hughes  Esquio"^  and 
to  euery  of  thero,  Greating 

Wheras  it  is  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Lorde  President  and  other 
o?(r  said  Cunsaill  in  o«<r  marches  of  wales  thatvagraunt  and  idle  persons 
naming  theim  selfe*  mynstrelle,?  Rithmers  and  Barthes,  are  lately  growen 
into  such  an  iutollerable  multitude  within  the  principalitee  of  north 
wales,  that  not  only  gentlemen  and  other  by  theire  shameles  disorders 
are  oftentymes  disquieted  in  theire  habitacions  /  But  also  thexpert 
mynstrelle*  and  musicions  in  tonge  and  Conyng  therby  much  discouraged 
to  travail  in  thexercise  and  practize  of  theire  knowledge*  and  also  not 
a  litle  hyndred  in  theire  Lyvinge*  and  prefermewte*  The  refourmacjou 
wherof  and  the  putting  of  those  people  in  order  the  said  Lorde  President 
and  Counsaill  have  thought  verey  necessarye  and  knowing  yo"  to  be  men 
bothof  wysdome  and  vpright  dealing  and  also  of  Experience  and  good 
Knowledg  in  the  scyence  /  have  apounted  and  auctborized  yo"  to  be 
Commissyoners  for  that  purpose  /  And  forasmuch  as  owr  said  Counsaill 
of  late  travayling  in  some  parte  of  the  said  principalite  had  perfect 
vnderstanding  by  credible  report  that  thaccustomed  place  for  thexecu- 
cjon  of  the  like  Commissyon  /  hath  bene  heretofore  at  Cayroes  in  our 
Countie  of  fflynt,  and  that  william  mostyn  Esquio''  and  his  auncestors 
have  had  the  gyfte  and  bestowing  of  the  sylver  harpe  appertayning  to 
the  Cheffof  that  facultie  /  and  that  a  yeares  warning  at  the  least  hath  bene 

X  2 


292  CAEEWYS   EISTEDVOD.       1568. 

acustomed  to  be  geaven  of  thassembly  /  and  execucjon  of  the  like  Cowtnis- 
syon  Our  said  Counsaill  have  tberfore  apoynted  thexecucion  of 

this  Co?jtmissyon  to  bo  at  the  said  towoe  of  Cayroes  the  monday  next  after 
the  feast  of  the  blessed  Trynitee  which  shalbe  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lorde 
god  /  1568. 

And  therfore  we  require  and  cowimaund  yo"  by  the  aucthoritee  of 
these  presenter  not  only  to  cause  open  proclamacjons  to  be  made  in  all 
ffayo''',  markette*,  Townes,  and  other  place*  of  assembly  wUhin  our 
Counties  of  Anglizey  Carnarvon,  meryonneth,  denbigh  and  fflynt  /  that 
all  and  euery  person  and  persons  .  that  entend  to  maynteigne  theire 
lyvinges  by  name  or  Colowr  of  mynstrelle*,  Eitbmers,  or  Barthes,  within 
the  Talaith  of  Aberfrowe  comprehending  the  said  fyve  Shires,  shalbe 
and  appeare  before  yo"  the  said  day e  and  place  to  showe  furlh  theire 
learninges  accordingly/  But  also  that  yo"  xx""  xix™  xviij«°  xvii™ 
xvjen  XV™  xiiij™  s.u]'"^  xij"  xj°  x""  ix  viij  vij  or  vj  of  yo",  wherof  youe 
S''  Richard  Bulkley,  S''  Rees  Gruffith,  Ellice  Price,  and  w™  mostyn 
Esquio''  or  iij««  or  ij"  of  yo"  to  be  of  the  nomber  to  repayre  to  the  said 
place  the  daye  aforsaid  /  And  calling  to  yo"  such  expert  men  in  the 
said  facultie  of  the  welshe  musick  .  as  to  yo"  shall  be  thought  convenient 
to  proceade  to  thexecucjon  of  the  premisses  and  to  admytt  such  and  so 
many  as  by  your  wisdomes  and  Knowledges  yo"  shall  fynde  worthy 
into/  and  vnder  the  degrees,  heretofore  in  semblable  sort  to  vse  exercise 
or  folowe  the  scjence*  and  facultes  of  theire  professyons  in  such  decent 
order  as  shall  appertaigne  to  eche  of  theire  degrees/  and  as  yo«r 
discrecjons  and  wisdomes  shall  prescribe  vnto  theim  geaving  straight 
monycion  and  commandment  in  owr  name,  and  on  o«r  behalf  to  the  rest 
not  worfhy  that  they  returne  to  some  honest  Laboi<r  and  due  Exercise, 
such  as  they  be  most  apte  vnto  for  mayntenaunce  of  theire  lyvinge* 
vpon  paine  to  be  taken  as  sturdy  and  idle  vaoaboundes  and  to  be  vsed 
according  to  the  La  wos  and  Statutes  provided  in  that  behalf/  Letting 
yo"  wytt  owr  said  Counsaill  looke  for  advertisemerat  by  due  certificatt 
at  your  handes  of  yowr  doinge*  in  thexecucion  of  the  said  premisse.? 
forseeing  in  any  wise  that  vpon  the  said  assembly  the  peas  and  good 
order  be  observed  and  kept  accordingly  ascertayning  yo"  that  the  said 
witim  mostyn  hath  promised  to  see  furnyture  and  thiuges  necessary 
provided  for  that  assembly  at  the  place  aforsaid  Yeven  vnder  out 
Signet  at  our  Citie  of  Chester  the  xxiij"'  of  October  the  nynth  yeare  of 
owr  Eaigne  / 

Sijrned  her  highnes  Counsaill 
in  the  marches  of  wales. 


PETITION    FOE   AN    EISTEBVOD.       1594.  293 


A  Petition  for  another  Eistebvod  .  1594. 

To  the  Right  Honorable  the  Lord  President  and  others  the  Queenes 
majesties  Councell  in  the  Marches  of  Wales. 

Eight  Honorable  our  Dueties  vnto  your  good  Lo:  remembred  whearas 
wjthin  the  principallitie  &  marches  of  wales  by  all  the  tyme  wherof  the 
memorie  of  man  ys  not  to  the  contrarye  it  hath  bene  founde  that  for 
not  only  the  expressiiige  notifieinge  &  acerteninge  of  the  truethe  of 
pettidegrees  armes  &  discentes  wUhin  the  same  Certayne  men  there 
termed  Byrdh  or  as  they  be  termed  welshe  poetes  But  also  skillfull 
honest  and  sober  men  exercised  &  brought  vpp  to  plaie  on  the  instru- 
mented called  the  harpe  and  Growth  [and  the  atcaneaid  which  doe  singe 
to  the  instrumented  played  by  them]*  haue  bene  keapt  maintegued  & 
suffred  to  travell  emongest  the  men  of  worshipp  gentillitie  &  power 
therin  inhabitinge  wAtch  yvith  their  sciences  proffessed  &  learned  not 
only  did  greatlie  repast  &  recreate  the  mynde  of  the  same  men  of 
worshipp  gentillity  and  power  but  also  by  their  studie  to  attayne  their 
skill  &  sciences  were  from  age  to  age  &  tyme  to  tyrae  men  of  greate  & 
certen  experience  to  sett  furth  pettiedegrees  &  discente*  the  better  to 
knowe  the  trooth  in  cases  of  greate  antiquitie  in  question  and  to  sett 
furth  &  explayue  the  languiage  of  the  same  partes  the  belter  :  and  men 
of  excellent  good  nurture  behavio«r  &  modestie  to  geave  example 
emongest'the  youthes  to  make  &  instructe  them  the  better  nurtured  & 
manered  &  morehable  to  serve  prince  or  subiecte  And  that  late  prince 
of  wales  Gruflith  ap  Kynan  of  auncient  &  worthie  memorie  did  stablishe 
&  sett  downe  lawes  ordinannccs  &  decrees  for  their  contiauannce  and 
maynteignance  that  did  serve  for  the  purposes  aforesaid  and  to  seclude 
&  vtterlie  to  abrogate  from  the  same  sciences  all  others  that  weare  not 
of  the  said  allowed  &  advanced  skill  sobrietie  and  good  behaviowr  wAich 
his  decrees  were  eue?'  sithence  mainteigned  in  euery  honest  pa?te  and 
not  abrogated  /  And  the  same  profEessors  in  euerie  degree  from  tyme  to 
tyme  to  move  them  to  attayne  to  perfeict  knowledge  had  gr[a]unted 
vnto  them  seuerall  syluer  prises  as  Masters  or  Doctors  of  the  same 
sciences  as  for  poetrie  the  sylver  chayre  for  harpeinge  the  silver  harpe 
for  Crowthinge  the  sylver  Growth  [85  for  the  atcane  or  singinge  the 
silver  tonge]*  as  a  price  to  be  geaven  to  the  best  to  be  by  him  worne 
and  other  degrees  gyven  to  the  rest  fitt  to  be  in  that  sort  mainteigned/ 
And  other  loyterers  and  drones  seeminge  to  pj-ofesse  the  same  sciences 
&  not  beinge  experienced  therin  but  rather  to  be  taken  knowen  & 

*  Written  above  line  in  blacker  ink. 


294  PETITION  FOR   AN   EISTEBTOD.      1594. 

termed  for  rogues  made  knowea  for  rogues  &  not  to  be  suffered  to 
travaille   &  chardge  the  subiecte*  but  ponished  if  they   travailed   & 
driven  to  laboure  for  their  lyveiuge  /  And  whearas   those  sylver  games 
&  prices  remayned  in  the  Cuntrey  in    the   hande*  of  gentlemen   not 
proffessed  in   any  of  the   said   sciences  and  ready  to  be  dcliuered  to 
those  p?-o£fessors  maynteiginge   the   same  prices  (as  we  be  enformed 
by  them)     The  same  proceadinge*  beinge  geiven  from    some  of   the 
Queenes  majesiies  most  noble  progenitors  originallie  for  mayntenance 
of   the  same   sciences  at   furst   because   the   worthier  sorte  might  be 
advannced  &  maynteigned  &  the  badd   thcrof  repressed  &  ponished 
heretofore    seuej-all  Comissions  haue  bene    gxaunted    &    directed  out 
by  yowr  liordship  &  executed  thone  in  the  tyme    of   the   late   kinge 
Henrie  the  eighte  father   to   her   Ma;estie   and  thother  at,  or  aboute* 
the  eighte  or  nineth  yere  of  her  Majesties  Kaigne  that  now  ys  [diireinge 
the    goueruemewt  of   the    hono?/rable    &   worthie    knight    Syr   Henry 
Sydney   then   Lord   President] |   the   recorder   wherof    (as    we    take) 
remayne  with   yojer  good  liordship      And  for    that  vnder   colour  of 
professinge  the  same  science*  many  badd  vnsober  vndiscreete  &  vnhonest 
persons,   nothing   deserveinge  iu    that    degree  do  travaille   within    the 
marches  chardgeable  to  her  graces  subiectes  wAzch  be  not  fitt  for  any 
thintentei  aforesaid     And  therfore  the  worthier  sorte  of  theym  whom 
we  fyude  greate  cause  &  necessitie  to  cherishc  &  maynteigne  for  the 
purposes  aforesaid   (because  by  the  multitude  of  the  vnskillfull  their 
callingei    &  sciences  are   not  studied  or  regarded)   have  bene  earnest 
suters  vnto  vs  to  signifie  the  same  to  yowr  good  'Lordship  and- to  Crave 
that  the   like  Comission  as   the  last  was  maye  be  ad  warded  to    men   of 
worshipp  &   experience  to  call  before  theym  all  the  persons   within 
wales  /(rofessinge  any  of  the  said  sciences  musicke   or  poetrie  at  a 
Convenient  place  &  tyme  &   theere  to  trie  &  examine  who  be  worthie 
to  weare  &  beare  awaye  the  same  silver  prices  &  to  rewarde  theym 
therwith,  &  to  grace  the  rest  that  be  worthie  to  be  suffered  and  fynallie 
to  represse  suche  as  be  vnskillfuU  &  leade  a  roguishe  life  by  that  colo!(r 
that  the  same  maye  be  knowen  accordinge  to  the  auncient  vsage  wftliin 
Wales  &  ponished  &  driven  to  laboure  vpon  with  their  requester  & 
suytes  &  because  we  fynde  the  better  sort  worthie  mayntenance  &  the 
chardge  of  the  rest  veary  necessarie  to  be  Cutt  of  we  praye  that  the 
same  Comission   may  be   graunted   accordinge   as   the   last   was   with 
pj'ovision  therin  as  in  former  Comissions  were  the  rather  because  we 
fynde   no  chardge   therby   ensueinge   to   the  subiecte*  but  rather  an 
vnnecessarie   chardge   Cutt  of  &  the  rest  suffered  to  be  fouude  more 
skillfull  &  paynfull     And  so  referringe  all  to  yowr  good  Consideracions 

•f  Written  above  line  by  the  same  hand. 


PETITION   FOE   AN   BISTEBVOD.       1594.  295 

we  Committ  the  same  to  gode«  blessid  tuicion  Dated  tbe  xxth  daye  of 
Maye  1594. 

Your  \iOrdship's  most  humble  at  Comanndmewi 

Peria  gruff'     John  Conwaye  W.  Salusburye 

John  Conwaye      John  Gruffyth  Joh"  Wynn  of  Gwyder 

Tno:  Price  Ed:  Theloald 

hugh  hoolies                   ffowk  Uoyd  The:  Salusbury 

R.  Turbridge. 


297 


HISTORIC  A.L  MANUSOUIPTS  COMMISSION. 


1870 

(Ke- 

piinted 

1874.) 


1871 


FiEST  Report,  with  Appendix 
Contents  :  — 
England.    House  of  Lords ;  Cambridge 
CoUegeej  Abingdon,  and  other  Cor- 
porations, &c. 
Scotland.      Advocates'  Library,  Glas- 
gow Corporation,  &c. 
Ireland.      Dublin,     Cork,    and    other 
Corporations,  &c. 

Seoond  Report,  with  Appendix,  and 
Index  to  the  First  and  Second 
Reports  -  - 

Contents  : — 
England.      House    o£  Lords;    Cam- 
bridge Colleges  ;  Oxford  Colleges  ; 
Monastery  of  Dominican    Friars  at 
Woodchester,    Duke    of    Bedford, 
Earl  Spencer,  &o. 
Scotland.     Aberdeen  and  St.  An- 
drew's Universities,  &e. 
Ireland.      Marquis     of     Ormonde; 
Dr.  Lyons,  &c. 


1872 
(Re- 
printed 
1895.) 


1373 


1878 


Third     Report,    with     Appendix     and 
Index 

Contents  : — 
England.  House  of  Lords;  Cam- 
bridge Colleges;  Stonyhurst  Col- 
lege ;  Bridgewater  and  other  Cor- 
porations ;  Duke  of  Northumber- 
land, Marquis  of  Lansdowne,  Mar- 
quis of  Bath,  &c. 
Scotland.      University  of  Glasgow  ; 

Duke  of  Montrose,  &c. 
Ireland.       Marquis     of    Ormonde; 
Black  Book  of  Limerick,  &e. 

Fourth       Report,       with       Appendix. 
Part  I.     - 

Contents  : —  .  ,      ■,      tit    .. 

England.  House  of  Lords;  West- 
minster Abbey;  Cambridge  and 
Oxford  Colleges;  Cinque  Ports, 
Hythe,  and  other  Corporations, 
MarquU  of  Bath,  Earl  of  Denbigh, 

Scon,AND.    Duke  of  Argyll,  &c. 
Ireland.     Trinity  College,  Dubhn  ; 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Ditto.    Part  II.    Index  - 


f'cap. 


[C.  55] 


«.   d. 
1     6 


[0.441]       3  10 


[C.  673]       6     0 


[C.857] 


6     8 


[C.857i.]      2     6 


298 


Date. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper, 


Price. 


1876 


1877 


(Ee- 
printed 
1893.) 

1879 

(Be- 
piinted 
1895.) 


(Re- 
printed 
1895.) 


1881 


1881 


Fifth  Kepokt,  with  Appexdix.   Past  I.  - 
Contents  :  — 
England.      House  of  Lords ;    Oxford 
and  Cambridge  Colleges ;   Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Canterbury ;   Rye,  Lydd, 
and    other     Corporations,    Duke     of 
Sutherland,  Marquis    of    Lansdowne, 
Re^nald  Cholmondeley,  Esq.,  &e. 
Scotland.    Earl  of  Aberdeen,  &o. 

Ditto.     Part  II.    Indbx   .  -  - 


Sixth  Repoet,  with  Appendix.  Pabt  I.  - 
Contents  :  — 

England.  House  of  Lords ;  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  Colleges ;  Lambeth 
Palace;  Black  Book  of  the  Arch- 
deacon of  Canterbury  ;  Bridport, 
Wallingford,  and  other  Corporations ; 
Lord  Leconfield,  Sir  Reginald  Graham, 
Sir  Henry  Ingilby,  &o. 

Scotland.  Duke  of  Argyll,  Earl  of 
Moray,  &c. 

Ikeland.     Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Ditto.    Pakt  II.    Index   - 


Seventh       Repobt,      with       Appendix. 
Pakt  I.  -  -  - 

Contents  :  — 

House  of  Lords  ;  County  of  Somerset ; 
Earl  of  Egmout,  Sir  Frederick 
Graham,  Sir  Harry  Verney,  &c. 

Ditto.    Part  11.    Appendix  and  Index 
Contents  : — 

Duke  of  Athole,  Marquis  of  Ormonde, 
S.  F.  Livingstone,  Esq.,  &c. 

Eighth    Report,    with    Appendix    and 
Index.     Part  I.  ..  .  - 

Contents  :  — 
List  of  collections  examined,  1869-1880. 
England.  House  of  Lords ; 
Duke  of  Marlborough ;  Magdalen 
College,  Oxford ;  Eoyal  College 
of  Physicians ;  Queen  Anne's 
Bounty  Office ;  Corporations  of 
Chester,  Leicester,  &c. 
Ikeland.  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Lord 
Emly,  The  O'Conor  Dou,  Trinity 
College,  Dublin,  &c. 

Ditto.    Pabt  II.   Appendix  and  Index   - 
Contents  :  — 
Duke  of  Slanchester. 


fcap. 


[C.1432] 


[C.1432 
[C.1745] 


[C.2102] 


[C.2340] 


[C.2340 
i-1 


[C.3040] 


»,  d 
7     0 


[C.3040 


8     6 


1   10 


7     6 


3     6 


8     6 


1     9 


299 


Date. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


Price. 


18S1 


1883 

(Ee- 

printed 

1895.) 


1884 

(Ee- 

printed 

1895.) 


1884 


1883 

(Ee- 

printed 

1895.) 

1888 

1889 

1892 
1894 
1895 

1885 


1885 

(Ee- 

piiuted 

1895.) 


1885 


1885 


Eighth  Eeport.  Part  III.   Appendix  and 
Index 

CoQtenta : — 

Earl  of  Ashburnham, 

Ninth     Eeport,     with     Appendix    and 
Index.     Part  I. 
Contents  :  — 
St.  Paul's  and  Canterbury  Cathedrals; 
Eton  College  ;  Carlisle,  Yarmouth, 
Canterbury,  and  Barnstaple  Corpora- 
tions, &c. 

Ditto.    Part  TI.     Appendix  and  Index   - 
Contents  :  — 

England.    House  of  Lords,    Earl    of 
Leicester  ;   C.  Pole  GelU  Alfred  Mor- 
rison, Esqs.,  &c. 
Scotland.      Lord  Elphinstone,  H.    C. 

Maxwell  Stuart,  Esq.,  &c. 
Ireland.      Duke  of  Leinster,  Marquis 
of  Drogheda,  &c. 

Ninth  Eepout.  Part  III.  Appkndix  and 
Index 

Contents  : — 

Mrs.  Stopford  Sackville. 

Calendar  of  the  Manuscripts  op  the 
Marquis  of  Salisbury,  K.G.  (or  Cecil 
MSS.).    Part  I.    - 


f'cap. 


Ditto.     Part  II. 
Ditto.     Part  III. 

Ditto.  Part  IV. 

Ditto.  Part  V.  -  -  - 

Ditto.  Part  VI. 

Ditto.  Part  VII.    (/«  the  Press.) 

Tenth  Eeport 
This  is  introductory  to  the  following  : — 

(1.)  Appendix  AND  Index  - 

Earl  of  Eglinton,  Sir  J.  S.  Max- 
well, Bart.,  and  C.  S.  H.  Drummocd 
Moray,  C.  F.  Weston  Underwood, 
G.  W.  Digby.Esqs. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index 
The  Family  of  Gawdy. 


(3.)  Appendix  and  Index 
Wells  Cuthedral. 


Bvo. 


[C.  .3040 
ii.] 


[C.3773] 


[C.3773 
i-] 


».  d. 

1  4 

5  2 

6  3 


[C.3773 
ii.] 


[C.3777] 

[C.5463] 

[C.  5889 
V-] 

[C.6823] 

[C.7574] 

[C.7884] 

[C.4548] 
[C.4575] 


rC.4576 
ili.] 


[C.  4576 
ii.] 


1     7 


3     5 

3     5 
2     1 

2   11 
2     6 


0     3J 
3     7 


1     4 


2     0 


300 


Date. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


Price. 


188.5 


1885 

(Ee- 

printed 

1895.)l| 


1887 

1887 
1887 

1887 
1887 

1887 
1887 
1887 
1888 

1890 
1888 

1888 


(4.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Earl  of  Westmorland  ;  Capt.  Stewart ; 
Lord  Stafford  ;  Sir  N.  W.  Throck- 
morton, Sir  P.  T.  Mainwaring,  Lord 
Muncaster,  Capt.  J.  F.  Bagot, 
Earl  of  Kilmorey,  Earl  of  Powis,  and 
others,  the  Corporations  of  Kendal, 
Wenlock,  Bridgnorth,  Eye,  Ply- 
mouth, and  the  County  of  Essex ; 
and  Stonyhurst  College. 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Earl  of 
Fingall,  Corporations  of  Galway, 
Waterford,  the  Sees  of  Dublin  and 
Ossory,  the  Jesuits  in  Ireland. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

Marquis  of  Abergavenny,  Lord 
Braye,  G.  F.  Luttrell,  P.  P.  Bouverie, 
W.  Bromley  Davenport,  E.  T. 
Balfour,  Esquires. 

Eleventh  Eepokt   .  -  -  - 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following : — 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

H.  D.  Skrine,  Esq.,  Salvetti  Corre- 
spondence. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  .  - 

House  of  Lords.     1678-1688. 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

Corporations    of    Southampton    and 

Lynn. 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

Marquis  Townshend. 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Earl  of  Dartmouth. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Duke  of  Hamilton. 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

Duke     of    Leeds,     Marchioness    of 

Waterford,    Lord    Hothfield,    &c.i 

Bridgwater   Trust  Office,   Beading 

Corporation,  Inner  Temple  Library. 

Twelfth  Eeport    - 
This  is  introductory  to  the  following  :— 

CI.)  Appendix  .  .  -  . 

Earl    Cowper,    E.G.    (Coke     MS3., 

at  Melbourne  HaU,  Derby).     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Appendix         .  .  -  - 

Ditto.     Vol.n. 


8vo. 


[C.4576] 


[C.  4576 


[C.5242] 


[C.  5060 
vi.] 

[C.5060] 


[C.  5060 
i-J 

[C.  5060 


[C.  5060 
ui.] 

[C.  5060 
iv.] 

[C.  5060 

v.] 

[C.5612] 


[C.5889] 
[C.5472] 

[C.561S] 


s.    d. 
3     6 


2  10 

I  7 

0  3 

1  1 

2  Q 

1  8 

2  6 
2  8 

1  (i 

2  0 

0  3 

2  7 

ii  & 


301 


Date. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


Price. 


1889 
1888 
1891 
1889 
1890 
1891 

1891 


1891 


1892 


1891 


1892 


1892 


(3.)  Appendix  and  Index  ... 
Ditto.     Vol.  III. 

(4.)  Appendix  .  .  .  - 

The  Duke  o£  Rutland,  G.C.B.    Vol.  I. 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  .  .  - 

Ditto.     Vol.  II. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

House  of  Lords,  1689-1690. 

(?.)  Appendix  and  Index 

S.  H.  le  Fleming,  Esq.,  of  Eydal. 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

The  Duke  of  Athole,  K.T.,  and  the 
Earl  of  Home. 

(9.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

'  The  Duke  of  Beaufort,  K.G.,  the  Earl 
of  Donoughmore,  J.  H.  Gurney,  W. 
W.  B.  Hulton,  R.  W.  Ketton,  G.  A. 
Aitken,  P.  V.  Smith,  Esqs. ;  Bishop 
of  Ely  ;  Cathedrals  of  Ely,  Glouces- 
ter, Lincoln,  and  Peterborough ; 
Corporations  of  Gloucester,  Higham 
Ferrers,  and  Newark;  Southwell 
Minster;  Lincoln  District  Registry. 

(10.)  Appendix 

The  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.  Vol.  I. 
1745-1783. 

Thirteenth  Report 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following  : — 

(1.)  Appendix  -  -  - 

The  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Ditto.     Vol.  II. 


1892 


1893 


(3.)  Appendix   - 

J.  B.  Fortescue, 
Vol.  I. 


Esq.,   of  Dropmore, 


(4.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

Corporations  of  Rye,  Hastings,  and 
Hereford.  Capt.  F.  C.  Loder- 
Symonds,  E.  R.  Wodehouse,  M.P., 
J.  Dovaston,  Esqs.,  Sir  T.  B. 
Lennard,  Bart.,  Rev.  W.D.  Macray, 
and  :^arl  of  Dartmouth  (Supple- 
mentary Report). 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

House  of  Lords,  1690-1691. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  -  - 

Sir  W.  FitzHerhert,  Bart.     The  De- 

laval   Fumily,   of    Seaton   Delaval; 

The  Earl  of  Ancastei  ami  General 

Ly  tteltoii-  A  nnesley . 


8vo. 


[C. 5889 
i-] 


«.  d. 
1  4 


[C.5614]   3  2 


[C.  5889 
ii.] 

[C.  5889 
iii.] 

[C.5889 
iy.] 

[C.6338] 


[C.  6338 


2  0 

2  1 

1  U 

1  0 

2  6 


[C.  6338 
ii.] 


[C.6827] 
[C.6474] 


[C.  6827 
[C.6660] 


[C.6810] 


[C.6822] 
[C.7166] 


1  11 

0  3 

3  0 

2  0 

2  7 

2  4 


2  4 
1  4 


302 


Date. 

Size. 

1 

Sessional     ^  • 
Paper.      P""*- 

]893 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index  -            -            - 
The  Earl  of  Lonsdale. 

8vo. 

[C.7241] 

s.    d. 
1     3 

1893 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.  Vol.  II. 
1784-1799. 

»  , 

[C.7424] 

1   U 

1896 

FOUBTEENTH    EePORT 

This  is  iutroductory  to  the  following : — 

»» 

[C.7983] 

0     3 

1894 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.   Vol.  III. 

f3 

[C.74761 

1   11 

1894 

(2.)  Appendix          -            -            .            . 
The  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  III. 

»> 

[C.7569] 

2     8 

1894 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Duke  of  Roxburghe ;  Sir  H.  H. 
Campbell,  Bart. ;  the  Earl  of  Strath- 
more  ;   and  the  Countess  Dowager 
of  Seafield. 

" 

[C,7570] 

I     2 

1394 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index 
Lord  Kenyon. 

)> 

[C.7571] 

2   10 

1896 

(5.)  Appendix 

J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Dropmore. 
Vol.  11. 

» 

[C.7572] 

2     8 

1895 

(6.)  Appendi.x  and  Index 

HoQse  of  Lord.s,  1692-1693. 

il 

[C.7573] 

1   11 

1895 

(7.)  Appendix 

The  Marquess  of  Ormonde, 

■' 

[C.7678] 

1   10 

1895 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Lincoln,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Hertford, 
and   Great   Grimsby   Corporations ; 
The  Dean  and    Chapter    of  Wor- 
cester,    and    of    Lichfield  ;       The 
Bishop's  Registry  of  Worcester. 

[C.7881] 

1     5 

lf95 

(9.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The   Earl  of    Buckinghamshire,    the 
Earl     of     Lindsey,    the     Earl    of 
Onslow,  Lord  Emly,  Theodore  J. 
Hare,  Esq.,  and  James  Round,  Esq., 
M.P. 

>♦ 

rC.7882] 

2     6 

1895 

(10.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth.    Vol.  II. 
American  Papers. 

Fifteenth  Repokt. 

This  is  introductory  to  ths  following  : — 

[C.7883] 

2     9 

1896 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth.    Vol.  IIL 

J> 

[C.8156] 

1     5 

1897 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index 

J.  Eliot  Hodgkin,  Esq.,  of  Richmond, 
Surrey. 

>» 

[C.8327] 

1     8 

lfl97 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Charles  Haliday,  Esq.,  of  Dublin. 

** 

[C.8364] 

1     4 

303 


Hate. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


Price. 


1897      (4.)  Appendix 

The  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  IV. 

1897      (50  Appendix  and  Index  -  -  - 

The  Eight  Hon.  F.  J.  Savile  Foljambe 
of  Osberton. 

1897     (6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
The  Earl  of  Carlisle. 

1897      (7.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Buke  of  Somerset,  the  Marquis  of 
Ailesbury,  and  Sir  T.  G.  Puleston, 
Bart. 

1897      (8.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Duke  of  Bucoleuch  and  Queens- 
berry,  K.G.,  K.T.,  at  Drumlanrig. 

1897      (9.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

J.  J.  Hope  Johnstone,  Esq.,  of  Annau- 
dale. 


8vo. 


[C.8497] 
[0.8.550] 


[C.8551] 

{Ditto.') 


s.  d. 
2  11 


0  10 


3     6 


[C.8553] 


1     4 


QBitto.) 


TMdte  Trials,  being  Eeporla  of  the  Chief  State  Tiiak  which  hftve  taken  place 
between  1820  and  the  present  time,  published  under  the  Buperrigion  of  a  Oommittee 
appointed  by  the  Lord  Chancellor : —  / 

Boy.  8vo.    Vol.  I.  1820-1823,    Vol.  H.  1823-1831.    Vol.  IH.    1881-1840.    Vol.  IVi 
1839-1843.   Vol.  V.  1843-1844.    Vol.  VL  1844-1848.    Vol.  VII.    1848-1850. 

Price  10«.  each, 
ualleager,  H.U.S.    A  Report  on  the  Scientific  Besulta  of  the  voyage  of,  duriag  the 
;  yearfl  1873-76,  under  the  command  of  Captain  George   S.  Nares,  B.N.,  P.B.8.,  and 
■  Captain  Frank  Turle  Thomson,  R.N.    Prepared  under  the  superintendence  of  the  late 
Sip  0.  Wyyille  Thomson,  Knt:,  F.B.S.j  and  now  of  John  Murray,  Ph.D.,  V.P.B.8.K. 
Complete  in  Fifty  Volumes.  Price  lOll.  16». 

Eilitaxy : — 

Abtixleky.     Field.    Service  Handbook.    1897.  Price  78.  6d. 

Amillekt  Dbill.     Garrison.    Vol.  II.  Price  Is. 

Catalet  Drill,  1898.  Price  1«. 

Dekbicks  Sheeks  and  Holdfasts,    Handbook  of  the.    1898.  Price  9d. 

Infamtet.    Mounted.     Regulations  foi.    1897.  Price  9^. 

MiLiTLA.     Regulations  for  the.     1898.  Price  9d. 

Ranoe-finding,  Field.    With  Watkin  Field  Range  finder  and  Telemeter.    Handbook 
for.  Price  Is. 

Bifle   and    Carbine    Exercises.     Manual.    Firing,    and  Bayonet   Exercises,    Firing 
Exercise  for  Webley  Pistol,  and  Instructions  for  Cleaning  Arms.     1898.        Price  3d. 
Saddles  and  Collars,  Sore  Backs  and  Sore  Shoulders.    Manual  of.     3rd  Edition. 

Price  la. 
Yeomanry  Oataley    Regulations  for  the.    1898.  Price  I».  6d. 

NTaval  ;— 
Doge  Book.    Containing  Dimensions  of  the  Wet  and  Dry  Docks,  Patent  Slips,  &c.,  of 
the  World.    3rd  Edition.  Price  6». 

Geological  :— 
Sons  AND   Sub-soils.    From  a  Sanitary  point  of  view ;  with  especial  reference  to 
London  and  its  Neighbourhood.    By  Horace  B.  Woodward,  F.B.8.         Price  2».  6d. 
OowAL.    The  Geology  of.     Including  the  part  of  Argyllshire  between  the  Clyde  and 
Loch  Fine.  Price  6». 

Local  Crovemment  Board  : — 
Enteric  Fever  in  Essex  and  Suffolk.     Report  on,  and  upon    Oysters   in  relation 
thereto.  Price  9d. 

Public  Watee  Service  provided  j?oe  the  County  Borough  of  Buey.    Report  on.  , 

Price  1». 

Home  Office: — 

Explosives.    List  of.     Corrected  to  1st  January  1898.  Price*  6i. 

Land  Registry.    Land  Transfer  Act,  1875.    General  Instructions  as  to  the  Registration 
and  Transfer  of  Land ;  with  Act,  Bulea,  and  Orders,  Fees,  and  Index.  Price  1«. 

Emigrants'  Information  Office,  31,  Broadway,  Westminster,  vis.:— 
Colonies,  Handbooks  for.    8vo.    Wrapper. 
No.  1.   Canada.    2.    New   South  Wales.      3.   Victoria.     4.    South   Australia. 
5.   Queensland.      6.   Western   Australia.      7.  Tasmania.     8.   New   Zealand., 
9.  Cape  Colony.    10.  Natal.  Price  Id.  each. 

No.    11.    Professional    Handbook   dealing    with   Professions    in  the    Colonies. 
12.  Emigration  Statutes  and  General  Handbook.  Price  3d.  each. 

No.  13  (viz..  Nos.  1  to  12  in  cloth).  Price  2s. 

Consular  Reports,  Summary  op.    America,  North  and  South.    January  1897. 

Price  2(1. 
Intending  Emigrants,  Information  fob  : — ^Argentine  Republic,  price  2d.    California, 
price  Id.     Ceylon,  price  Id.     Maryland,  price  Id.     Newfoundland,  price  Id. 
South  African  Republic,  price  2d.    West  Indies,  price  2d. 

Foreign  Office : — 

Africa  BY  Treaty.    The  Map  of.    By  Sir  E.  Hertslet.  K.C.B.     3  Vols.    Price  31».  6d. 
Commercial  Treaties.     (Hertslet's.)    A  complete  collection  of  Treaties,  &o.,  between 
1  Great  Britain  and  Foreign  Powers  so  far  as  they  relate  to  Commerce  and  Navigation, 

&c.    By  Sir  E  Hertslet,  K.O.B.,  &c.    Vols.  I.  to  XIX.     CVol.  VI.  out  of  print.) 

^  Price  15».  each. 

State  Papers.  British  and  Foreign.  Vol.  80.  General  Index  (chronologically  and 
alphabetically  arranged)  to  Vols.  65  to  79.  (1873  to  1883.)  Vol.  81.  1888-1889. 
Vol.82.     1889-1890.     Vol.83.     1890-1891.  Price  10«.  each. 

Board  of  Trade  Jonmal,  of  Tariff  and  Trade  Notices  and  Miscellaneous  Oommercial 
information.  Published  15th  of  Month.  Price  Sd.  Index  to  Vols.  1  to  14.  Price  £«. 
And  to  Vols.  XV.  to  XX.    July  1893  to  June  1896.  Price  1«. 

Eew:  I&oyal  Botanic  Gardens.    Bulletins  of  Miscellaneous  Information,     Volume 
*,,     fbr  1896,  price  3«.  ;  and  Monthly  parts,  1897,  price  4d. 
Liquor  TiillgjiillL  i^^V^MwmSSiSJ^-    Mioutss  of  Evidence.        Price  .(per  day)  2i. 
1.    IV.    98. 


HISTORICAL   MANUSCRIPTS   COMMISSION. 


REPORT 


ON 


MANUSCRIPTS 


IN  THE 


WELSH    LANGUAGE. 


VOL.  I. 


^teimtels  to  iatt)  Houi^e^  of  parliament  i^  Comnratttt  of  Her  Majeits. 


LONDON: 
PRINTED  FOR  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 
BY  EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 
VBDITERS   TO   THE   QUEEN'S   MOST   EXCELLENT  MAJESTY. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  througli  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Harding  Steeet,  Ft-eet  Street,  E.C,  and 

32,  Abingdon  Street,  Westminster,  S.W.;  or  1 

JOHN  MENZIES  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 

90,  Wkst  Nile  Street,  Glasgow;  or 

HODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin, 


1898. 


HISTORICAL    MANUSCRIPTS    COMMISSION. 


REPOJfeT 

ON 


MANISCRIPTS 


IN    THE 


WELSH     LANGUAGE 


VOL.    I. 
PART    IL— PENIARTH. 


9r«(ente1i  to  bot^  ^oujsie^  of  ^arltanunt  be  ComtnatOi  of  Kn  Mais»tU' 


LONDON: 

PfilNTED  FOR  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 

BY  EYEE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 

PEINTERS   TO  THE  QUEEN'S  MOST   EXCELLENT  MAJESTY. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Haedikq  Street,  Fleet  Street,  E.G.,  and 

32,  Abingdon  Street,  Westminster,  S.W.  ;  or 

JOHN  MENZIES  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 

90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow;  or 

HODCJES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin, 

^,.ji...-       _,^  1899 


SALE    OF    GOVERNMENT    PUBLICATIONS. 

The  onder-inentioned  Firms  have  been  appointed  sole  Agents  for  the  sale  of 
Gh>Temment  Fablioations,  inolading  Porliamentftry  Beports  and  Fapera,  Acts  of  Parlia> 
ment,  Record  Office  Pablicationa,  &o.,  &o.,  and  all  sach  works  can  be  pnrohMed  £roia 
them  either  directly  or  through  retail  bookaeUers,  who  are  entitled  to  a  disoonnt  of 
25  per  cent,  from  the  selling  prices : — 

IN  ENQLAND :—  { 

For  all  publications  eMepting  Ordnance  and  Geological  Maps,  the  Hydrographical  J 
Works  of  the  Admiralt;^,  and  Patent  Office  FnblicationB : — Mbsbbs.  Etbi  akdI 
SfomswoosE,  East  Harmng  Street,  E.G.  i 

For  G«ological  Maps : — Mr.  E.  Siaxtobb,  Oookapnr  Street,  S.W.  ^ 

For  Hydrographical  Works  of  the  Admiralty :— Mr.  J.  D.  Pottek,  31,  Poultry,  E.G.  | 
Patent  Office  Publications  are  sold  at  the  Patent  Office. 


For  all  Publications  eesetptvng  the  Hydrographical  Works  of  the  Admiralty  and 
Patent  Office  Publications : — 
IN  SCOTLAND :— Messbs.  John  Menzhs  &  Go.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 

90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow. 
TN  lEBLAND : — Messbs.  Hodsbs,  Fiogis,  &  Go.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 

OEDNANCE  SURVEY  MAPS  OF  GREAT  BRITAIN  AND  IRELAIfD .—There 
are  Agents  for  the  sale  of  these  Maps  in  most  of  the  chief  towns.  Oopiea  can  also 
be  ordered  at  many  Head  Post  Offices,  and  through  any  Bookseller,  or  from  the 
Director-General  Ordnance  Survey,  Southampton ;  or,  in  the  case  of  Ireland,  from 
the  Officer  in  Charge  Ordnance  Survey,  Dublin. 


4 


1 


The  following  is  a  list  of  some  of  the  more  important  Parliamentary  and  Officia^i 
publications  recently  issued : —  ■ 

Pfurliameiitary ;  - 

Btatatea — 

PiibUe  Oenwal,  Session  1899.    With  Index,  Tables,  &c.    Glotb.  Price  ?«. 

Seernid  BwUed.  EcUUon.    A.D.  1235-1713  to  A.D.  1872-1883.    XV.  Vols. 

Price  78.  6d.  each. 
BevUed  EcUUont.    Tables  showing  subsequent  Repeals,  effected  by  Acts  of  Session 
62  &  63  Vict.    1899.  Price  6<i. 

Statutes  iM  Force.  Index  to.  16th  Edition.  To  end  of  62  ft  63  Vict.  2  Vols.  Price  10».  6i. 
The  Statutory  Bules  and  Orders  revised.    Statutory  Rules  and  Orders,  other  than 
those  of  a  Local,  Personal,  or  Temporary  Character,  issued  prior  to  1890,  and  now 
in  force.    Vols.  I.  to  VIII.  Price  lOs.  each. 

Statutory  Bules  and  Orders  other  than  those  of  a  Local,  Personal,  or  Temxwrary 
Character.    With  a  List  of  the  more  important  Statutory  Orders  of  a  Local  . 
Character  arranged  in  classes ;  and  an  Index.    Roy.  8vo.    Boards.    Issued  in  i 
the  years  1890, 1891, 1892,  1893,  1894, 1895, 1896,  1897, 1898,  and  1899. 

Price  10s.  each. 
Statutory  Btdes  amd  Orders  in  force  on  Slst  December  1899.  Index  to.  _  Price  10« 
Statutory  Bulea  and  Orders,  1900.    Registered  under  the  Rules  Publication  Aot, 

1893.    In  course  of  issue. 
Acts  of  Pa/rUameni,  PiMic  and  Local  and  Private,  Session  1900.     In  course  of  issue. 
FH.C.  No.  67/1900.    Life  Assukamce  Companies.    Statement  of  Account,  1899. 

Price  2s.  lOd. 
[H.O.  No.  134/1900.]    Coal.    Tables  showing  Production,  &c.  1883  to  1898.        Price  Sd.  ; 
[Cd.  166.]    AGBictiLTriEAL  Returns.    Gi;eat  Britain.    1E99.  Price  1«.  4d.  i 

[Cd.  67.]     Aged  Deseeving  Pooe.    Report  of  Departmental  Committee  on  the  Financial ' 

A^spects  of  Proposals ;  with  Appendices.  Price  1«.  3d. 

[Cd.   167.]      MisES  ADD  QuAKEiES.      General  Report  and  Statistics,  1899.     Fart  I. 
Persons  employed,  output,  accidents,  &e.  Price  SdM 

[Cd.  169.]    Railway  Accidents  Eetueks  eok  the  Teas  1899.  Price  3s.  3dM 

[Cd.  120.]     Inbusteial  Associations  op  the  United  Kingdom.     Labour  DepartmenM 
Directory.  Price  7id. 

[Od.  134, 134i  10  and  11].  _  ] 

[Cd.  190.]    Education.    Directory  with  Regulations  for  establishing  and  conducting  j 
Science  and  Art  Schools  and  Classes.    1900-1901.  Price  6d, 

[Cd.  196.]    Wae  Relief  Funds  Committee.     Report  and  TreaHury  Minute.  Price  2d. : 

Mines.    Eeports  of  H.  M.  Inspectors  for  1899,  with  Summaries  of  the  Statistical  portion  ] 
under  the  provisions  of  the  Coal  Mines  Regulation  Act,  1887  ;  Metalliferous  Miues 
Regulation  Acts,  1872-1875  ;  S!ate  Mines  (Gunpowder)  Act,  1882.    Distr  cts  Nos,  1 
to  13.    Complete.  Price  7g.  7d. 

Mines  in  the  United  Kingdom  and  the  Isle  of  Man.    List  of,  for  1898.  Price  'is, 

QuAEBiES.  Ditto.  ditto.  ditto,  1898.  Price  3».  8i. 

Mines  aeahdoned.    List  of  the  Flans  of.    Gomoted  to  Slst  December  1898.      Price  lOd. 


HISTORICAL  MANUSCRIPTS  COMMISSION. 


REPORT 


ON 


MANUSCRIPTS 


IN   THE 


WELSH    LANGUAGE. 


VOL.  I. 
PART  II.— PENIARTH. 


jprtSmttti  ta  Iiotf)  IgouSeS  at  parliament  Sg  Commaiiif  of  ?|er  Mnicits* 


L  OlSTDON: 

PRINTED  FOE  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFEICE, 
BT  ETEE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 

PKINTEES  TO  THE  QTTEBN'S  MOST  EXCELLENT  MAJESTT. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  orthrough  any  Bookseller,  from 

EYRE  AUR  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  HAKDirre  Steeet,'  Pleet  Street,  E.G.,  and 

32,  AsirreDoif  Street,  "Westmihster,  S.W.  ;  or 

JOHN  MENZIES  ft  Co.,  12,  Hanoteb  Street,  Bcineurgh,  and 

90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasgow  ;  or 

HODGES,  PIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 


1899. 


[C— 9468.]     Price  2s.  lid. 


INTRODUCTION. 


The.  Peniarth  Collection  of  manuscripts  consists  of  five 
hundred  and  nineteen  works  in  Welsh,  Cornish,  English,  and 
Latin.  Rather  more  than  four-fifths  of  these  formed  the  well- 
known  Hengwrt  Collection,  which  the^  antiquarj^  Robert 
VaUghan,  the  friend  arid '  correspondent  of  Archbishop  Ussher 
and  John  Selden,  had  the  rare  excitement  and  gratification  of 
bringing  together,  with  the  exception  of  a  few,  added  later  by 
his  heirs  and  successors,  from  the  Sebright  and  other  collections. 
Bj  the  death  of  Sir  Robert  Williames  Vaughan,  Bart.,  of  Nanneu, 
Hengwrt,  and  Rug,  in  the  county  of  Merioneth,  ths  Collection 
was  bequeathed  to  his  great  friend,  the  late  W.  W.  E.  Wynne,  a 
gentleman  devoted  to  antiquarian  research,  a  rare  paleographer, 
and  a  noble  example  of  a  cultivated  country  squire.  In  1859 
the  manuscripts  were  removed  from  Rug  to  Peniarth,  and  added 
to  those  already  there.  From  1860  to  the  time  of  his  death, 
and  more  especially  after  he  retired  from  Parliament,  Mr.  Wynne 
devoted  a  great  part  of  his  time  to  the  manuscripts,  most  of 
which  contain  slips  of  papers  with  notes  in  his  hand.  Mr.  Wynne 
also  published  a  Catalogue  of  the  Hengwrt  and  Peniarth'MSSJ 
in- the  Archaeologia  Cambrensia  for  April  1861,  July  and 
October  1869,  April  and  October  1870,  and  April  1871.* 

The  present  Collection  at  Peniarth  '  is,  undoubtedly,  the 
premier  collection  of  Welsh  manuscripts,  both  in  extent  and 
in  quality.  Here  we  have  the  oldest  MSS.  of  the  Laws  of 
Wales  in  Latin  and  Welsh ;  the  oldest  versions  of  the 
Mabinogion,  as  well  as  of  the  Arthurian  and  other  Romances; 
the  oldest  and  onlyperfect  copy  of  the  Holy  Grail ;  an  early 
translationof  a  portion,  of  the  Gospjbl  df  Matthew;  an  imnifense 
body  of  poetry,  ranging  Irom  the  Black  Book  of  Carmarthen 
down  to  the  18th  century  ;  Historical  works  like  Brut  y  Tywys- 
sogion:y,and  ,a.large.jiumher  of  the  theological  works  current 
in  the  Middle  Ages.    nWe   have  here  lalso   not  only  the  most 


*  There  are  two  or  three  old  MS.  Catalogues  of  the  Hengwrt  Collection  at 
Peniarth.  Sefe  ftlso  Cambrian  Register  Vol.'  ili.,  pp.  278-313;  Cymmrodorion 
Transactions  (London,  1843),, Vol.  ii.,  part  iv.,  pp.  403-16  r  and  for  the  Penbedw 
MSS.,  now  at  Peniarth,  see  Angharad  Llwjd's  Catalogue  iu  the  Cymmrodorion 
Transactions  (Lon;loii,  !S2S},  Vcl.  i:.,  part  iii.,  pp.  43-39. 


extensive  collection  of  pedigrees,  but  by  far  the  oldest  Manu- 
scripts with  authentic  contemporary  accounts  and  references  to- 
sources  of  information.  A  considerable  section  of  the  community 
takes  a  most  astonishing  interest  in  this  subject  of  pedigrees, 
and  a  student  not  nursed  in  the  firm  faith  of  a  descent 
from  a  follower  of  the  Norman  Bastard,  or  a  Welsh  Koyal  tribe 
finds  himself  frequently  in  a  most  embarrassing  position.  The 
■writer  has  found  it  difficult  to  swallow  his  soup  with  grace 
as  he  listen  ed  to  a  "  descendant  of  Rhodri  Mawr  wondering  "  if 
there  was  no  way  of  recovering  some  of  the  family  estate,  which 
was  so  extensive  in  the  year  946.  Again  the  question  is 
constantly  asked  why  Welsh  manuscripts  are  so  full  and 
careful  of  the  maternal  line  of  descent.  The  answer  is  simple  r 
many  of  the  followers  of  the  Lords  Marcher  fell  victims  to 
Welsh  heiresses  and  widows,  and  in  the  excess  of  their  devotion, 
adopted  the  descent  as  well  as  the  estate  of  their  Welsh  wives. 
But  it  is  dangerous  to  touch  on  historical  evidence,  and  espe- 
cially to  disturb  a  fold  in  the  female  skirtj  which  hides  many  a 
Brown  and  a  Robinson,  descended  neither  from  a  Norman  nor 
a,  Royal  tribe,  but  simply  from  an  unknown  adventurer  in  the 
train,  say,  of  a  Bishop  Lee.  In  the  second  half  of  the  sixteenth 
century  we  find  very  plain  and  uncomplimentary  references 
to  '  forged '  pedigrees,  and  '  upstart '  families.  Such  strong 
animadversions,  however,  tell  two  ways,  for  they  prove 
that  there  were  true  ideals,  and  honest  compilers  of  pedigrees, 
in  that  as  in  other  times.  Still,  when  a  pedigree  reaches^ 
back  beyond  the  third  generation  of  the  time  in  which  it  was 
otiginally  drawn  up,  unle.ss  supported  by  independent  docu- 
mentary evidence,  the  work  of  even  the  most  honest  of  men 
cannot  be  trusted.  Take  for  instance  the  vellura  roll  (some 
seven  yards  long)  of  pedigrees  at  Mostyn  Hall,  in  the  hand  of 
Guttyn  Owen,  a  man  thoroughly  trustworthy  as  to  the  matters  of 
his  oft'n  time,  and  yet,  in  that  roll  certain  pedigrees  are  traced 
back  to  '  Adam  son  of  God,'  without  any  conscious  sense  of  the 
incongruous.  It  does  seem  as  if  reason  took  its  leave  of  every 
genealogist,  sooner  or  later.  Nevertheless,  from  the  middle  of  the 
fifteenth  century  to  the  end  of  the  seventeenth,  we  have  the 
continuous  evidence  of  the  manuscripts  of  successive  bards,  who 
were  also  professional  genealogists.  When  we  reflect  upon  the 
number  of  men  who  are  interested  in  tha  subject,  it  is  surprising 
that  they  do  not  combine  and  set  about  printing  and  editing 


Vll 

Jocuments,  which  also  contain  much  useful  information.  These 
pedigrees  supply  many  a  missing  link  in  the  historical  poems, 
and  in  particular,  extend  our  knowledge  of  the  boundaries  of 
the  ancient  territorial  divisions  of  Wales. 

As  stated  in  the  Introduction  to  Part  I.  of  this  Report,  it  is 
intended  to  write  a  general  Introduction  when  the  work  of 
inspection  is  completed.  We  shall,  therefore,  not  examine  the 
contents  of  the  present  part  in  detail.  But  in  view  of  a  mistake, 
repeatedly  made  by  writers  on  the  Welsh  Laws,  it  is  necessary  to 
call  attention  here  to  one  or  two  points.  In  consequence  of  the 
plan  of  making*  a  text  from  many  MSS.,  adopted  in  the  edition 
of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales,  no  student  has 
been  able  to  discover  the  exact  contents  of  manuscript  /\,  i.e., 
the  Black  Book  of  Chirk.  This  is  not  surprising.  Nothing  but 
a  full  collation  of  the  printed  text  with  Peniarth  MS.  29t  will 
enable  any  one  to  solve  the  problem,  as  the  writer  found  out 
years  ago.  A  reference  to  page  359  below,  however,  will  indicate 
how  far,  and  where  the  text  of  A  is  imperfect.  Fortunately 
we  are  not  left  to  guess  at  the  contents  of  the  missing  folios 
We  have,  in  excellent  preservation,  a  transciipt  of  /^  in  the- 
British  Museum  Add.  MS.  14,931,  which  is  the  E  of  the^ 
printed  text.  Mr.  Aneurin  Owen  was  shocked  at  finding  E 
"  verbatim  the  same,  even  to  the  most  glaring  inaccuracies, 
"  without  any  attempt  at  revision ;  such  inaccuracies  as 
"  would  be  obvious  to  any  but  a  mere  copyist  ignorant  of  the 
"  subject,  and  who  had  no  other  authority  before  him."  Let  us, 
nevertheless,  revere  the  memory  of  this  one  faithful  soul  who  was 
content  to  be  a  mere  copyist,  carefully  eliminating  the  personal 
equation,  and  suppressing  that  inordinate  love  of  "  airing 
knowledge  "  which  impels  so  many  of  the  "  learned  "  to  tamper 
with  texts,  to  empty  themselves  in  irrelevant  comment,  and  to 
crowd  their  footnotes  with  references  they  have  nut  verified. 
Thanks  to  the  enduring  labours  of  one  "  ignorant  of  the  subject," 
we  are  left  in  no  doubt  as  to  the  contents  of  the  Chirk  Codex 
in  its  original  state.  And  not  until  the  students  of  the  Laws 
of  Wales  learn  to  concentrate  their  attention   on  the  text  of  A 

*  See  note  1  p.  25  of  The  Welsh  People  by  Prof.  Rhys  and  Mr.  Bryainor- 
Jones,  Q.C.,  M.F.     (London,  1900.) 

t  It  may  interest  students  to  know  that  this  MS.  has  been  coUotyped  in  facsimile 
by  the  Clarendon  Press,  and  will  be  issued,  in  due  time,  in  the  Series  of  Old  Welsh 
Texts.    The  missing  parts  are  supplied  from  its  trani-cript,  MS.  E. 


Vlll 

(supplemented  by  its  copy  £)  can  we  ever  hope  to  arrive  at  any 
solid  results.     The  contents  of  the  other  Welsh  manuscripts  look 
like  later  variants  with  certain  additions>  editorial  glosses  and 
comments,  which  may  help  us  to  understand  late  thirteenth  or 
fourteenth  century  law,  but  only  carry  us  further  away  from 
the  'Law  of  Howel,'  as  written  in  the  Old  Whitland  Codex, 
Teferred  to  below  in  Peniarth'  MS.-  30.     Unhappily  no  one  ever 
saw  it,  who  was  "  ignorant "  enough  of  the  subject  to  leave  us 
"'f.'amere  copy  of  it."     Even  manuscript  A  confessedly  departs* 
from  the  original  text,  though-  its  languagecand  syntasiprove 
that  it  is  much  more  of  a  mere  copy- than- any -of  the   other 
versions.     If  students  will  note  that  the  text  of  fE  corresponds 
roughly  with  the  printed  text  on  pages  2,-80  h  4,  108  1.6-110 
1.  14,  80  1.  5-1061.  21,  110  1,  19-148  1.  26,  [148  1.  27-1 64  J.  18], 
154  1.  18-214  1.  15,  218  I  15-290  1.  28,  292  1.  5-^332  LI, 
[332  1.  2-334  1.  19]  of  Vol.  i.,  and  pages  [2-6  1.  5],  6  1.  6-36 
L  17  of  Vol.  ii.,  it  will  be  seen  that  the  so-called  " Preface  tathe 
third  Book"  is  not  in; the  oldest ■  version  of  the  Laws.  .  Itdeed 
it  formed  no  part' ^originally  of  manuscript!}:  5  Cj  in  .which   it 
occurs,  but  was  inserted  about  fifty  years  later,';notwithstanding 
the  editorial  assurance  that  <' the  two  fragments; appear  to  be 
of  the  same  era."     Clears  the  marks  of  a- manuscript  TeS^edited 
with  excisions  about  the  time  Edward  J.  promulgated  the  Statute 
of  EhuSlan,     The  early  part  relating -'to  the  Welsh  coui't,  as 
well  as  many  passages  throughout  the .  manuscript  have  been 
cut  out,'while  five  folios  have  been  introduced  ilater,  containing 
aome  passages  found  in  no  other  text  which  is  not  derived  from 
Q.     It  is;  therefore,  futile  to  build  on  such  statements  as  those 
in  lines  7-13  of  page  218  of  Vol.  i. 

It -is  unnecessary  to  'add  to  the  previous  remarks^  about  the 
orthography ; of ^the  manuscripts,  which ds  nowliere  intentionally 

*  It  records  at  least  two  changes  introduced  by  Bleddyn  ap  KynTyn  (Vol.  1. 
pp.  166  and  '252), "vrbile  ^ora-erth  up  Madog- seems  to  bave'coWcted  tb'gethir  Bnd 
dravrn  up  the  Table  of  Valves,  beginning  on  page  298  of  Vol.  i.  See 'also  Vol.  ii. 
p.  20.  "  Breinniau  Arvon  "  (Vol.  i.  p.  104)  is  not  in  the  same  hand  as  the  text 
before  and  after.     The  rest  of  the  MS.  is  not  all  in  one  hand.  .    '  -       ' 

f  BeliOB  47,  48,95  and  96  are  wanting  in  ^,.but  A  is  perfect  afctheae  places, 
which  are  enclosed  above  by  square  brackets. 

±  British  Museum  Caligula  A.  iii.,  folios  149-79,  185-98  Written  in  the  second 
quarter  of  the  13tb  century,  and  folios  180-4  written  eircd  1284.  For  the  text  of 
folios  180-5,  see  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  Vol.  i.  pp.  214  1.  21  to 
220  1.  13,  228  I.  16  Jo  236  1.14,  ond  238  1.  9  <o  2541.  21.    ■  •      '     •^' 

§  Sec  Beport  on  the  Mastyn  Manuscripts,  pp.  xiv-xv.    "  .... 


IX 


changed,  or  corrected  without  some  indication  of  the  fact,  such 
as  the  employment  of  brackets  or  italics.  For  whatever  de- 
partures there  may  be  from  the  originals,  the  writer  must  sadly 
accept  the  responsibility,  except  in  those  cases  where  letters 
have  been  dropped  out  and  transposed,  while  the  sheets  were 
passing  through  the  press.        -  •        , 

It  would  have  been  a  most  agreeable  task  to  trace  many  of 
the  works  to  their  source,  but  this  would  be  travelling  beyond 
the  scope  of  the  Commission.  Some  private  notes,  however, 
have  been  utilised,  which  will  account  for  whatever  unevenness 
of  treatment  may  exist. 

A  brief  summary  of  the  contents  of  the  present  part  will 
be  found  in  the  pages  imniediately  following.  Only  the  more" 
important  subjects  are  included. 

A  table  of  the  Hengwrt  numbers  of  the  manuscripts  examined 
here  will  be  found  on  pages  997-8  below,  with  cross  references  to 
the  Peniarth  numbers.  This  will  enable  any  one  using  old 
catalogues  to  discover  at  once  if  any  work  he  may  be  seeking  is 
included  in  this  first  portion  of  the  Report. 

Finally,  it  is  a  great  pleasure  to  tender  our  cordial  thanks  to 
Mr.  Wynne  of  Peniarth  for  doing 'every  thing  in  his  power,  and 
that  readily  and  cheerfully,  to  further  the  object  of  the  Com- 
mission. '  Access  to  the'  manuiscripts  has  been  freely  given  even 
at  inconvenient  timeSi  Whenever  it  was  necessary  to  work  at 
Peniiarth,  a  room  was  always  provided  where  the  inspection 
could  be  carried  on  without  interruption,  and  scares  of  parcels 
were  sent  to  the  Bodleian  Library.  Nor  must  the  writer  remain 
silent  on  the  question  of  personal  consideration  and  kindness 
received  at  the  hands  of  both  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wynne,  whose 
hospitality,  during  many  years,  has  made  Peniat  th  seem  to  him 
almost  a  second  home. 

J.  GWENOGVRYN  EVANS. 
Oxford. 


A  LIST  OF  THOSE   POETS  WHOSE   RESPECTIVE  WOEKS 
ARE  PARTIALLY  COLLECTED  TOGETHER. 


Ada  Vras,  352,  4  ;  434. 

Barfl:  Bach.     See  Rys  Vara. 

Bergam,  y,  352,  433. 

D.  ap  Gwilim,  382-9,    10-1. 

D.  Eppynt,  412,  7  ;  421,5. 

D.  Nanmor,  402-3. 

D.  y  Nant,  418-9. 

Davies,       Dwn.        See        John, 

and  Lewis. 

Edmund  Prys,  768-9. 

Griffith  Philip,  763-4. 

Gutto'r     Glynn,      511,      617-9, 
927-30. 

Huw  Arwystli,  531-9,  589. 
HuwCaeILwyd,412-3,  7;  420-2. 
Howel  Kilan,  548-9. 
Howel  vel  Huw  Davi,  460-5,  621, 
037-8. 


John  Brwynog,  440-1. 

John  Davies,  582  ;  D'',  611,  3. 

Lewis  Dwn,  592-603. 

Lewis  Glyn  Cothi,  470-5,  509-10, 
654-9. 

Lewis  Morgannwg,  620-1,  637. 

Morgan  Elvel,  521—1. 

Owen  Griffith,  757-83. 

Philip,  John,  563-4. 

Philip,   W.,  of   Hendre   Vechan^ 

695-7. 
Rhys  Vara,  vel  Bara  Bach,  390, 

7,  8  ;  403-5,  413,  4,  6  ;  585. 
Rhys  Kain,  466-70,  711-2,  6. 
Sion  Kain,  565,  6  ;  698-717. 
Tudyr  Aled,  635-7,  659-61. 
Wiliam  Kynwal,  445-7,  768-9. 


XI 


BRIEF  SUMMARY  OF  COiN TENTS. 


Acheu.  See  Boned,  Llwyth, 
Pedigvees. 

Adam,  Historia,  307  (1.  U),  310, 
3.17,333,364,  72  3. 

Adar  llwch  gwin,  837. 

Adrian  ac  Ipotis,  Historia,  335, 
731. 

Anarawd,  731. 

Aneirin,  a  copy  of  the  Book  of, 
936. 

Ankyr  TL.  Dewi  Vrcvi.  See 
JLyvyr. 

Anna,  the  life  of,  381. 

Annales  ab  origine  mundi  ad 
Christum,  3.J2,  493. 

Annals  at  Cambridge,  Welsh,  359. 

Annerch,  390,  416,  430,  511,  621. 

Apocryphal  Gospels  : 
Nicodemus,  310,  723. 
Pseudo-Matthew,       309,      331, 
358. 

Areith  Gr:  ap  ^.,  513,  939;  ^olo 
Goch,  520;  Wgan,  454,  491. 

Argoet  Uwyvein,  the  battle  of,  301. 
Armorial    Devices,    a  treatise   on, 
783,  824,  921,  986. 

Armorial  Devices  described, 
772,3;  782,  .5;  832,6;  843,  5; 
854,  7,  8  ;  866,  9  ;  883  ;  901  ; 
996. 

Armorial  Devices,  sketched  and 
coloured,  792-3  ;  849,  851,  8S0, 
884,  923,  4. 

Arthur  ac  Eliwlod,  514,  596,  622, 
666;  Diwed,  844,  921,  954; 
his  remains,  907. 

Avwyti,  y  xii,  459. 

Astrology  vel  Astronomy,  324, 
325,  338, 340,  351,  353-6  ;  401, 
406,  7;  459,  477,  615,  553; 
674,  6;  693,  727,  968.  See 
Fortune,  Erra  Pater,  Prog- 
nostication. 

Athanasins,  the  creed  of,  311,  335. 


Avallen,  304,  391,  435-6,  580,  611, 
862. 

Avyrlladen,  yr,  309,  330-1. 

Awstin,  Sant,  323,  5 ;    337,  398, 
443,  946. 

Autographs — MSS.     wholly     or 
partially  in  the  hands  of; — 
Bradford,  JohD,  698. 
Dauyd,  389-94. 
Dauid  ap  Meredith  Glais,  349. 
David  Kayo,  544,  548. 
David  Nanmor,  402. 
David  esgrivenyS,  852. 
Davie.s,  Edward,  907. 
Davies  of  Rhiwlas,  J.,  902-7. 

Davies  of  Mallwyd,  Dr  J., 382,  611,  3  ; 

624,  660,  718,  911,  947. 
DwnD,  Griffith,  470,  654. 
Dwnn,  Lewis,  592. 
Edward  ap  Roger,  ?  78.5,  900. 

Elis,   Eev.  David,  448,  614,  624,  927 
936. 

Evans,  Rev.  Evan,  748. 

Evans  of  Hendre  VorvyS,  T.,  942. 

Griffith,  Jaspar,  297,  339,  377,  403,  5. 

Griffith  Hiraethog,  ?  399,  552,  773,  5, 
784,  822,9;  834,847,  854,  879,  884, 
971-90. 

Giittyn  Owen,  354,  7  355,  806,  814. 

Gwilim  Tew,  399. 

Howel  vel  Huw  Davi,  460-5,  715. 

Huw  Arwystl,  532-9. 

Huw  Bangor,  995. 

Huw  Llyn,  470. 

Jaco  ap  Dewi,  624. 

Jcuau  ap  Rhys,  720. 

Jeuan  Brechva,  818. 

Jeuan  Llavar,  544,  561,  971 . 

John  ap  Rys,  862. 

John  ap  Van,  911. 

John  Brwynog,  440. 

John  Jones  of  GelliLyvdy,  342,  477, 
651,  664,  671,  689,  912,  968. 

John  W.  ap  J.  of  Crug  Howel  vet  Crug 
Kada,  650. 


xu 


Lewis  Glyn  Cothi,  374, 470-5  ;  ?  654, 
?836. 

Lewis  Morgannwg,  822,     , 
Lhwyd,  Edward,  729-30. 
Longforde,  Edward,  427. 
Maurice  of  LI.  Silin,  W.,  614,621,  4  ; 

924. 
Middleton,  VViliam,  719-20. 
Morris,  Lewis,  624. 
Morys,  Roger,  ?  367,  612,  960,  3,  8. 
Morys,  Syr  Walter,  865. 
Owen,  Aneurin,  297, 300,  371. 
Owen  of  Kemeis,  George,  924. 
Owen  GwyneS,  538,  561. 
Owen,  John,  454. 
Phylip,  J.  vel  S.,  562,  715. 
Phylip,  Eichard,  ?  619,  715:  937. 
Powell,  John,  644. 
Price  of  Lhauvylhin,  T.,  727. 
E.  T.,  891.     [?  Rich :  Tho'— cf.  389.] 
Ehys,  D' J.  D.,  718. 

Ehys   Kain,   466,  7  ;  715,   879,   898, 

947,  994. 
Richard  ap  J.  of  ScorlegSn,  740, 946, 7. 
Eobert  ap  ^vau,  942. 
Roberts,  Griffith,  936. 
Eoger  Kyffin,  561. 
Salbri,Wiliam,-621. 
Simwnt  Vychau,  339,  448,  518,  544, 

iiSa,  785,  812,  834,  879,  911,  923. 

Sioti.     See  John. 

Sion  Kain,  5«5,  698-715,  924,  994. 
Sion  Tudnr,  ?  432,  477,  544. 
Thomas,  John,  698-710. 

Vaughan,  Robert,  371,  603,  624,  638, 
652,  718,  727,  785,812,9;  824,927, 
959,  968. 

Wiliam  Kynwal,  644,  785. 

Wiliam  Ll^n,  654,  785,  812,  822,  9 ; 
834,  854,  879,  884,  891,  8  ;  900. 

Wiliam  Penllyn,  641, 

Wiliems,  Sir  Thomas,  320,  5 ;  359, 
362,  442,  509,  578,  614,  963,  970. 

Williams,  Eoger,  732. 

Wynne,  Rev.  Ellis,  751. 

Wynn,  Eev.  W.,  556,  589, 614,. 750, 1 ; 
902,947.  ■     -    - 

Bards.     See  Prydyddion. 
Bardic  scripf,  418-9. 
Bedeu,   Englynion  y,  298,    612, 
666,  863. 


Berach,  y  Teir,  500,  785,  8  ;  825, 
859,  867,  923. 

Berthlwyd,  569. 

Beuno,  Buchedd,  335,  731. 

Biblical  History.     See  Annales. 

Black  Book  of  Carmarthen,  297, 
611,652,665-8,969. 

Black  Book  of  Chirk,  359. 

Bleeding,  319. 

Bonefl  gwyr  y  GogleS,  379. 

Bonea  y  Saint,  324,  339,  356, 
379,  394,  494,  8,  722,  730,  775, 
786,  824,  865,  988,  992. 

Book.  See  Aneirin,  Black,  Copy, 
Llyvyr,  Taliessin. 

Books,  A  list  of  the,  of  J.  Jones, 
727;  of  J.  D.  Ehys,  732;  at 
Cardigan,  818. 

Boundary  measurement.Sj  921, 
954-5. 

Bown  of  Hampton,  Historia,  316, 
725. 

Brenhin  kadarna,  y  xxiv,  357, 
824,  866. 

Brenhinllwyth,  y  pym,  493,  4; 
722,  4;  772,  5;  910. 

British  Genealogist,  the,  735-40, 

961.- 
British     History,     961-2.        See 

BrutSi 
BreuSwyd.     See   Dreams,   Grono 

Du,  Paul. 

Brut  y  Brenhined,  337,  342,  347- 
.50  ;  377-80 ;  720,  866,  948, 
961, 

Brut  y  Saesson,  342,  9;  355,  365. 

Brut  y^Tywyssogion,  341-3. 

Brycheinog,  defod  yn,  462. 

Brya  y  golwg,  973. 

KadGoaeu,  613,670. 

Cadog,  Bonedd,  393. 

Eaereu,  a  list  of,  724. 

Kaerwys.     See  Eistedvod. 

Kainc,  y  xiv,  443,  490. 

Kalendars,  354, 374, 439,  731, 967. 

Kamp,  y  xxiv  prif,  425,  923,  938. 


Cantrods  and  Commotes  of  Wales, 
395.  732,  825,  911,  952;  and 
Parishes  911-20. 

Canu  drws  y  neuait,  401. 

Cas  bethfi,  405,  609,  642, 680,  865, 
910,  939. 

Cas  amnion,  323,  381,401. 

Catherine,  the  life  of  St.,  310,  336, 

358. 
Cato  vel  Kadw  hen.     iS'ee  Dicta  C. 
celt,  ara,  395. 

Kei-a  danne,  442,  922,  938,  964. 
Kerdwrieth,  774,  946,  7. 

Charlemagne,  the  historia  of,  313- 
320. 

Chirk,  the  Black  Book  of,  359. 

Ciironicle  of  Llandegla,  979,  986. 

Chronicles,  Brief,  356,  363,  396, 
582,  623,  693,  724,  5,  6  ;  753, 
812,  844,  7 ;  851,  865,  872, 
955,  9 ;  977,  980. 

Chronology.  See  Bruts, 

Chronicles. 

Cl^r.     See  Gler. 

C!yn  Rhedyn,  y,  i.e.  Senghenyd, 

734. 
Clywittor,  391,  413,  586. 
Commandments,  the  ten,  396. 
Complexion,  381,  459,  968. 
Compot  manuel,  403,  503,  783. 
Copy.     See  Copi  o  law  &c.  infra. 
Corn  Brangaled,  911. 
Cornish  Drama,  a,  651. 
Knronoc   Vaban,   392,    434,    579, 

587,  863,  4. 
Kostoglwyth,  y  pymp,  494,  500, 

724,  785,  807,  910,  923. 

Credoeu,  309,  335:  337:  396: 
731.     See  Athanasias. 

Creed,  the  Apostles',  323. 

Cromwell's  pedigree,  908.  Cf, 
734 ;  924,  988, 

Cromwell,  tir,  898. 

Cross,  the  Tree  of  the,  and  the 
finding  thereof,  307.  318,  332, 
35S,  364,  867. 


Crucifixion,  the,   311,   723.     See 
y  Groglith. 

Crwth,    kerS,    922,    938.       Cry- 
thorion,  922. 

Kulhwch  and  Olwen,  306. 

K-wtta  Kyvarwyd,  y,  389. 

Kydvod,  553,  955. 

Kynawc,  DJyvyr,  367. 

Kynghorion,  312,   324,  355,  422, 
487,  864,  939.     See  Cato. 

Kynaelw,  Odleu,  303. 

Kynwal's  Grammar,  W.,  442. 

Kyvoesi  MyrSin  a  Gwendyfl,  304, 
346,  352,  584,  996  ;  cf.  353. 

Kyvreith.     See  Laws. 

Kyvrinach  Beirfi  Y.  B.,  940. 

Kyssegyrlan  Vucbed,    325,    335, 
731. 

Copi   o    law 

Anwyl,  Owen,  84C. 

David  ap  Wiliam,  676. 

D.  ap  Jaukyn  Vynglwyd,  881. 

David  Bentiwr,  845. 

David  ysgrivenyS,  852. 

Edward  ap  Roger,  845. 

Griffith  Hiraethog,  881. 

Guttyn  Owen,  491,  818,  829,  836,  8, 
976,  982 ;  yng  hrogen  906 ;  y 
maesmor  982,  990 ;  yn  vdlvst  982, 
3 ;  gida  Simwnt,  982. 

Hari  hen  konwy,  982. 

Huw  Llyn,  846. 

Jeuan  ap  H.  C.  llwyd,  826,  977,  983. 

J.  ap  Madog  ap  R.,  979,  981,  2,  3. 

^euan,  deon  Bangor,  852. 

John  Brwynog,  860,  880,  943. 

Jones  o  Dre  Garon,  Thomas,  829. 

Langford,  Risiart,  667,  ?  830. 

Longforde,  Edivard,  427. 

Lewis  y  Glyn,  836. 

Llwyd  o  lys  Dulas,  T,,  838,  ymcdecB 
852,  3. 

Llwyd,  WmfBre,  844. 

Morgan  Elvel,  982. 

Moris  ap  J.  ap  "Eiccn,  85! 

Morys,  Roger,  667, 

Owen,  y  person  852  ;  Syr  979;  ap  f 

ap  R.,  979. 
Owen,  Sir  George,  070. 


XIV 


Powel,  ffwk,  837  :   Mr.  P.,  858,  983  : 
B'  P.,  727  (e/.  J.  P.,  477). 

Salsbri,  Wiliam,  r,12. 

Siairs,  833. 

Simwnt  Vychan,  946-7,  969. 

Syr  Thomas  ap  J.  ap  Deikws,  838, 
842,  982. 

Wiliam  T.  ap  Edward,  680. 
Wiliems,  Sir  Thomas,  320,  5 ;  359, 749. 
Wynne,  Edward,  442. 
Wyn  o  lys  Dulas,  Thomas,  838. 
{J opt  0  Lyvyr 
Aneirin,  936. 
Ankyr  LI.  D.  Vrevi,  731. 
Archiagon  MerionyS,  983. 
Bochrwyd,  983. 
Bodeon,  hen,  976,  983. 
Bodrychwin,  983. 
Karpgasgl,  888. 
Katrin  Owen,  982. 
Kasgl  o  Von,  839. 
KloSaith,  980,  3. 
Coch  o  Hergest,  719. 
Crogen,  993. 
Kwrt  Enlli,  983. 
Kwtta  kyvarwyS,  688. 
David  Alaw,  839-40. 
D.  ap  J.  ap  Hari  o  Lan  arthne,  990. 
David  ap  Wiliam,  680. 
David  Vychan,  Sir,  836,  976,  7,  ?  983. 
Diarhebion,  y,  978,  983. 
Du  CaervyrSin,  435,  969. 
Dwn,  Griffith,  832. 
Edward  ap  John,  848. 

Edward  ap  Koger,  367,  491,  2  ;  828, 
842,  5,  8,  9  ;  850,  3,  5  ;  886  ;  Mr, 
881. 

Elien,  hen  berson,  837,  848,  981,  3  : 
[?  RysWyn,  854]. 

Greal,  y  sant,  719,  ?  983. 
Griffith  ap  D.  ap  Einon,  819. 
Griffith,  Jaspar,  688. 
Griffith  Hiraethog,  787,  829. 
Griffith  Leia,  853. 

Guttyn  Owen,  491,  788,837,  8;  843, 
9;  851,880,  977,  983. 

Gwynn,  Gwilim,  837. 
Gwynn,  Lewis,  907. 
Harri,  Mr.,  832  ;  ?  996. 
Harri  konwy  hen,  973. 
Holant,  Richard,  842. 


Howel  ap  Ll'n  ap  Mredith,  977. 
Haw  ap  T.  o  L.  Gynileym,  830. 
[Hiiw]  Bangor,  988. 
Huw  Llwyd  kynvel,  751. 

^euau  Brechva,  786,  802, 3  ;  826,  831- 

2,  880,  893,  978. 
^euan  ap  Huw  kae  llwyd,  976,  983. 
Jankin,  Philip,  839. 
Jesus  College,  730-1,  740. 
^euau  ap  Madog  ap  E.,  981,  3. 
John  ap  Mred:  or  Glyn,  861. 

John  ap  Rys  o  Risgoc,  842,  982.  Cj. 
Rhys. 

J.  ap  W.  ap  John,  839,  979,  981,  2,  o 
sgeiviog  983. 

John  Brwynog,  983. 
John  Saer,  842,  976,  7,  8,  9  ;  981,  3. 
Lamfforth,  Richard,  830,  848,  S57. 
Lewis    ap  Edward,   831,   2  ;  833,  9  ; 

852,  4  ;  885,  983. 
Lewis  ap  Gr:  o  L.  Gadoc,  829. 
Lewis  ap  Owen,  492. 
Lewis,  John,  842. 
Lewis  Mon,  831. 
Lewis  Morgannwg,  833,  4. 
Lewis  o  L.  Gerniw,  John,  976. 
Llan  Egwest,  982. 
Llwyd,  Griffith,  795 :  J.,  983. 
Llwyd,  John,  983. 
Llwyd  o  Lys  Dulas  ymodeon,  852. 
Llywelyn  ap  Jeuan,  839. 
Madryn,  851,  2. 

Maesmor,  Bychan  818,  o  law  G.  O., 
982,  981. 

Maurice,  W.,  727. 

Morgan  Elvel,  826,  8  ;  834. 

Mostyn,  Pirs,  844. 

Mostyn,  Syr  Roger,  729. 

Owen  ap  J.  ap  R.  o  Dreveilir,  847, 
o  Dimeirchion  979.  See  Treveilir 
injra. 

Owen,  Katrin,  982. 

Plas  NewyS,  983. 

Powel,  John,  477. 

Powis,  Sir  John,  963,  983. 

Prys  AberhonJu,  Mr.,  687. 

Prys,  Syr  John,  832,  3. 

Reinallt  ap  Morgan,  971. 

Rhys  Goch  or  yri,  978,  983. 

Rhys  Griffith,  Syr,  983. 

Rhys,  John,  846  :  o  Wenllwg,  833. 


XV 


Rich:  apMred:  or  Glasgod,  981. 

Robert  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  983. 

Robert  Jachwr,  844,  6  ;  852,  976,  983  ; 

j'Myvyrian   880  ;  ymblas  W.   Wd., 

857  ;  ap  J.  ap  ho'l,  989. 

Simwnt,  848,  981,  2,3. 

Thomas  ap  J.  ap  Deikws,  Sir,  775, 
838,  982. 

Treveilir,  823,  8  j  853,  880,  8  ;  983, 
990.     See  0.  ap  J.  supra. 

Trevor,  John,  795,  870,  977,  9;  or 
Hob  844:  Trevor  Trevalun  837, 
849;  S.  T.  Trevalun,  850,  870:  o 
Drevor,  983. 

Trevor,  Robert,  881. 

Tudur  A  led,  846. 

T'  /  R  /  839  ;  Tudr  ap  R.  ap  D.,  842, 
981,  3. 

Vaughan,  Robert,  732. 

Vicar  of  LI.  Sanffraid,  973,  980,  2. 

Wiliam  ap  Rickert,  851. 

Wynn,.  John,  802,  826  ;  or  Tv^r,  850. 

Wynn    Unllawiog,    John,    787,    802, 

S26. 
Wyn  o  Wedir,  Morys,  831. 
Ynhaures,  858. 
Tstum  Kegid,  983. 

Dares  Phrygius,  342,  350,  380, 
948. 

Davoganeu,  578  &c.  See  Pro- 
phecies. 

Deaf  and  Dumb  Alphabet,  376. 

Dewi,  Buched,  335,  356,  731. 

Dialogues,  vel  Interludes,  428, 
454,  5;  467,491. 

Diarhebion.  See  Proverbs  ;  Copi 
o  Lyvyr. 

Dicta  Catonis,  304,  355,  402,  561, 
2;  581,9. 

Doethion  Rhuvein,  seith,  730. 

Dreams,  924 ;  the  Interpretation 
of,  353,  968.  See  Grono  Du, 
Paul. 

Dwnn  =  Gethin,  894. 

Dyved,  395,  825. 

Dyvnwal,  748,  954.     See  Laws. 

Edmund,  the  miracles  of  St.,  329. 


'Egypl-iaca.     See  Mary. 

Einon  ofeeirad,  442,  943. 

EiryMynyd,  455,  550,  612,621, 
606,  731. 

EisteSvod  of  1523*,  the    Caorwys, 
503,  554,  782,  921.  938. 

Eisteflvod  of  1567,  the   Caerwys, 

745,  823,  906. 
El  en.     See  Cross. 
Eliwlod.     See  Arthur. 
Elphin,  Dyhufliant,  401. 
Elucidarium,  323,  335,  731. 
Erra  Pater,  437. 
Eryr,   Prophwydoliaeth    yr,   338, 

380,  639,  863. 

Eryr  mawr,  yr,  353. 

Extenta,  860-1. 

Farriery.     See  Marchwriaeth. 

Fifteen  tribes.     See  Llwyth. 

Folklore,  822,  837,  911. 

Forrest  Glyn  Cothi,  819. 

Fortune,  the  book  of,  355,  553,  4  ; 
968. 

Gavel,  969,  977. 

Genealogical    table,    961.        See 
Pedigrees. 

Geoffrey  of  Monmouth's  Historia, 
377.     See  Brut  y  B. 

Geometry,  921. 

Gereint,  298,  325 ;  the  Romance 
of  G.  and  Enid,  306,  316. 

Giants,  724-5. 

Gildas,  337. 

Gler.y,  844;   Cwrs  clera,  993-4. 
See  Prydydion. 

Glossaries.     See  Vocabularies. 

Gododin,  y,  936. 

Gospels.     See  Apocryphal,  ^udas, 
Groclith,  John,  Matthew. 

Groclith,  y,  307,  318,  331,  358, 
723. 

Greal,  Ystoriaeu  St.,  321, 336,  719, 


"  The  date  is  wrongly  given  as  1524  on  pages  503,  554. 


XVI 


Grammars,  347,  399,  400,  425,  8 ; 
442-3;  772,  4  ;  923,  940,  ,2,  3, 
4,  6 ;  963. 

Griffith  ap  Kynaii,  Life  of,  339, 
(cf.  731,  777)  ;  statute  of,  478, 
490,  512,  921,  93S,  941-,  960. 

Grono  Du,  Breuavvyd,  413,  553, 
583,5. 

Gruffut  Bola,  312. 

Gwasgargerfl  Taliessin,  352  j 
Vyrlin,  325,  392,  586. 

Gwelygora  Saint,  teir,  806,  821. 

Gwenvrewi,  Buchefl,  357. 

Gwydir  Family,  History  of  the, 
731. 

Gwrtheyrn    to   King   John,   364, 

848. 

Gwyrtheu.     See  Edmund,  Meir. 

Hanes.     See  Taliessin,  Trystan. 

Hav  hir  velyn,  yr,  433,  579,  584. 

HawS  i  hepkor,  454. 

Hawys  Gadarn,  436-7,  783,  811, 
865. 

Hengwrt  Manuscripts,  Catalogue 
of,  726. 

Heraldic  Dictienary,  970. 

Heraldry,  582,  785,  851.  See 
Aratorial  DeTice*. 

History.  See  British,  Bachefl, 
Brut,  Chronicles,  Gwrtheyrn, 
Gwydir,  Hanes,  ^udas,  Pilate. 

Howel  ap  Gr:  Eiwyd,  373. 

Howel  Da.     See  Laws. 

Hu  Sant,  323. 

Hyneiv,  y  xxiv,  312. 

Jeuan  offeirat,  336,  380;  yscolheic, 
320. 

Imago  Mundi,  307. 

Inscription,  839, 974. 

John,  a  portion  of  the  Gospel  of, 
312. 

fudas,  ystoria,  304,  8;  319,  333, 
723, 

Lapidari,  y,  402,  693,  938. 


Laws  of  Wales,  359-76;  721,  5; 
970  ;  Brecheinog,  462  ;  Dyffryn 
klwyd,  729;  of  Dyvnwal,  733, 
748,  954. 

Letters,  402,  485,  643,  4;  726, 
747,  9. 

Lewis  Yscolheic,  373. 

Libri,  832.     See  Books. 

Lives.  See  Beuno,  Catherine, 
Dewi,  Gwenvre'tvi,  oVIargaret. 

ILwyth,  y  Pymtheg,  494,  634,  724, 
772,  5 ;  788,  808,  910, 
995,  (821,  2). 

„  y  pym  Brenhin  — ,  494, 
724,772,5;  910;  995; 
y  tri  Brenhinllwyth 
816. 

)i  y  Pyiip  Costog— ,  494, 
500,  724,  785, 867,  910, 
923. 

EiuS  and  ILevelys,  306,  (378). 

ILys  vel  plas,  pymp,  723,  817. 

ILywelyn's  expedition  to  London, 
356. 

TLy  vy  r 

Angkyr  Ll.B.  vrevi,  723,  731. 

Cad.  74S  :  Cadwaladr  Wynn,  575. 

Coch  Hergest,  ,313,  5  ;  719  ;  723,  5,  7. 

Coch  Talgarth,  333. 

Kynawc,  367,  370  ;  ach,  730.   ^ 

D.  Kayo,  544. 

Du  CaervyrSyn,  297,  435. 

Duor  Weun,  359. 

Edward  ap  David,  902,  7. 

Edward  ap  Roger,  367,  785. 

Gr:  Llwyd  ap  Madoe  ap  D.,  961. 

Gwyn  Hergest,  385,  727,  844  n. 

Gwyn   RhySeroh  305-16,  324,   667; 
pieu  727. 

Howel  ap  Sir  Matheu,  961-2. 

Huw  Llyn,  470. 

James  Jenkins,  964. 

J.  ap  D.  ap  Twna,  979. 

John  D.  Rhys,  718. 

Jones,  Sir  Richard,  967. 

Llan  Dav,  730. 

Lewis  Gwyn  o  Drev  Escoh,  689. 

Llewelyn  ap  Tudr,  853. 


XVll 


Llel  Gutto,  442. 

Llewelyn  y  GlyD,  376. 

LoDgford,  442,  837. 

Morgeneu  a  Chyvnerth,  371. 

Mostyn,  Sir  Roger,  729. 

Owen  ap  6'lim  o  Dal  y  Llyn,  654,  ?978. 

Phylip  of  Picton,  Eichard,  937. 

Rhys  Kain,  540. 

Rhys  Wyn,  person  LI.  Diilas,  772. 

Rich:  ap  John  of  Scorlegau,  946-7. 

Roberta       van,  942. 

Sir  T.  ap      ap  Delkws,  775,  982. 

Sir  Thorn      Wiliems,  750. 

Thomas,  Escoh  LI.  Elwy,  829. 

Thomas  ap  J  van  of  Hendre  VorvyJ, 
942,963. 

Trevor  o  Drevalun,  900. 

Wiliam  Llyn,  822,  9. 

W.  Mathew  o  Landav,  384. 

y  Dynghedven.    See  Book  of  Fortune. 

y  Ty  Gwyn,  361,  367. 

ILyvreu   lLae?m  361,  442;   carda- 
rtim,  774  ;  hen.  777  n. 

Mabiuogion,  305,  316. 

Mabolaeth  ifesu  Grist,  309,  mabv- 
nogi,  332. 

Maen  y  Barfl,  972. 

March  am  Heirchion,  837. 

Marchog,  xxiv,  512;    vrlol,  778 ; 
995. 

Marchog  y  IPynnon,  859. 

Marchwriaeth,  llyvyr,  553,  773. 

Margaret,  Buchefl,  310,  332,  6. 

Marginalia.    <See  Autograph  MSS. 

Marie,  Transitus,  311,  329,  334, 
358,  731. 

Martha,  Buchea,  310  (line  30). 

Matthew,  the  Gospel  of.  See 
y  Groclith. 

Maxen  Wledig,  306,  338. 

Measurements,  353,  944.  See 
Boundai'ies. 

Medical  recipes  &c.,  322,  353,  5, 
6;  381,  398,  9;  406,  424,  430, 
8;  444,  458,  9  ;  484,  500,  515, 
528-9;  562,  723,  731,  751, 
H65-6. 

y  98430. 


MeSygon  Myflvei,  726,  731,  751. 

MeS-dawt,  312,  395,  8;  993. 

Meir,  Gwyrtheu,  326.     See  Marie. 

Meir  Vadlen,  Buchefl,  310  (1.  24), 
356,  723. 

Meir  Wyry,  BucheS,  309,  723. 

Meir  or  Eifft,  310  ;  egiptiaca,  327. 

Merdin  a  GwenSya.    See  Ky  voesi. 

Merain,  projAwydolieth,  333,  8  ; 
380,  434  ;  vcr'r,  389,  413. 

Merayn,  wyllr,  580  ;  Merlyn 
ambrosuis,  555. 

Metres,  the  xxiv,  428,  438-9, 
442,  3  ;  .il2,  565,  923,  938, 
948  ;  the  xxvii,  442. 

Milling,  a  treatise  on,  426-7. 

Moelyrch,  639. 

Morganuwc,  7  cantrev,  395. 

Morua  Espob,  309. 

Mundi.     See  Annales,  Imago. 

Nations,  921,  946,  996. 

Natural  philosophy,  339,  401,  968. 

Neithor,  530. 

Nicodemus.     See  Apocryphal  G. 

O  michti  ladi,  594,  613,  668. 

Oian  a  pharchellan,  298,  304,  391, 
2,  'A,  9;  436,  580,  1,  2;  862. 

Olew  bendigeid,  yr,  394,  866. 

Oraot  vron,  393-5,  579,  580,  7  ; 
862,  3. 

Owein  and  Lunet,  Romance  of, 
306,  731. 

Owein  Glyndwr,  437,  582,  588-9  ; 

847,  866. 
OwenVarchog,  965.  iSfee  Purdan  }'. 

Pader,  Gwedi  y,  323 ;  Pwyll  y, 
323,  337,  731. 

Palmistry,  399,  968. 

Parishes  of  Wales,  a  List  of, 
911-20. 

Passion  [play],  455.  See 
Dialogues. 

Paul,  the  vision  of,  304,  333-4, 
364,  396,  581. 

b 


XVIU 


Pedigrees,  394,  400,  420,  7  ;  432, 
6,  7 ;  449-50,  452-3,  9 ;  470,  7, 
479-82  ;  491-500,  576,  582, 
643,  692,  718,  722,  3,5;  733- 
40,  8;  769-98,  801-61,  865- 
902,  940-2,  5,  904-10;  D.  ap 
G.,  797 ;  Gr:  Gryg,  531 ;  Gr: 
Hiraethog,  979  ;  Ho:  ap  D., 
845  ;  Lewis  Morganog,  992  ; 
S.  Tudur,  792  ;  Tudur  Aled, 
350,  450,  792  ;  W.  kynwal, 
797. 

Peiryan  vabau,  .S92. 
Pendevigeth  kymru,  503. 

Peniarth,  tre,  847, 

Penllyn  is  veloch,  971. 

Peredur,  Romance  of,   306,   317, 
334. 

PhyBiognomy,  399. 

Pilate,  Hiftoria,  308,  318,  723. 

Plas,  vel  Llys,  pymp,  723,  817. 

Posveira,  598,  613,  670,  923. 

Powys.     See  Rhandired. 

Prognostications,  356,  437. 

Prophecies,  351,  7,  9;  389,  394, 
409,  432-5,  555, 578-89, 692-3, 

862-5,  996. 
Proverbs,  297,  325,  340,  359,  361, 

412,  8  ;  550,  723,  937,  978. 
PrydySion,   750,   922,    938,   944, 

96U.     See  Gler. 
Purdan  Padric,  312.     See  0.  Var- 

chog. 
Pwyllat  Pembrwn,  390. 
Red  Book  of  Hergest.     See  Lly  vyr 

Coch  H. 
Red  Book  of  Talgarth,  323. 
References,      ^ee  copy   from  tbe 

hand  of,  and  from  the  booh  of , 

and  ILyvyr. 
Rhandired  : 

Bledri,  Ll'n  a  Thrahaiaru,  825,  85i). 

BleSyn  ap  Kynvyn,  i.e.,  Powy.-!, 
Maelor,  kyvelioc,  arwystli  etc., 
436,  722,  783,  811,  825,866,  909, 
969,  979. 

KyneSa  Wledig,  498-9,  806-7. 

Ednyvad  Vachan,  839,  976,  995. 

Elidir  ap  K.  Sais,  981. 


Gr:  ap  yr  Arg  :  Rys,  825. 
^thel  Velyn,  492,  785,  845,  976. 
^thel    a    Heilin,    meib    EunyS,    870, 

992. 
Llyweljn  ap  Jeuan,  985. 
Ll'n  ap  Madog  ap  Einon,  969. 

Rhys  ap  Marchan,  845,  973. 

Khys  ap  Thomas,  Syr,  822. 
Rhodri    tri    mab,    731-2  ;    ach, 

774. 

Rhos  and  Rhyvoniog,  boundaries 
of,  972. 

Rhudlan,  Statute  of,  376. 

Rhyd  y  Gyvarthva,  911. 

Ruthin,  old  names  of  f)73,  Gram- 
mar School  749,  market,  944. 

Salesbury,     William,     511,    621, 
947. 

Saxon  Heptarchy,  921,  951.     See 
Brut. 

Seissyllwg,  825. 

Sheriffs,  Lists  of,  482-3,  609,  696, 
798-801,  958. 

Sibille  and  Merlyn,  the  prophecy 
of,  396. 

Sibil  Doeth,  309,331,  434. 

S.  &  R.  Kain,  Notes  by,  993,  4. 

Social  Life,  902,  971,2. 

Statutes.     See  Gr:  ap  K.,  Rhu3- 
lan. 

Taliessin,  Book  of,  300;  Hanes 
458,  664,  670. 

Telynorion,  922. 

Tervyneu,  921. 

Tlws,  y  xiii,  401,  439,  512,  995. 

Translators  : 
Griffith  Bola,  312. 
Madauo  ap  Selyv,  311,  4. 
Wmflrey  Llwyd,  824. 

Teir,  vel  Tri.  See  Berach,  Gwe- 
lygorS  Seint,  Brenhinllwyth. 

Tri  arbennic,  y  Dec,  623. 

Triads,  Historical  and  Mythical, 
298,  324,  339,  357,  380,  1  ;  395, 
401,512,  5;  776. 


XIX 


Trioed,  398,  458-9,  490,  748, 
861. 

Trioea  kerd,  324,  347,  381;  cf. 
9^3. 

Tribes.     See  Llwyth. 

Troilus  and  Cressida,  651. 

Trystan  ac  Essyllt,  Hanes,  596, 
613,  669,  920 ;  ach,  859 :  Trfe, 
911. 

Twenty-four.  See  Brenhin, 
Camp,  Hyneiv,  Marchog,  Metres, 
Wonders. 


Vaughan,  Note  Book  of  Robert, 
732.  See  Autograph  MSS., 
Copi. 

Vocabularies,  358,  390,  6,  400,  2 ; 
424,  719,  721,  3,  6,  8;  877, 
936,  939-40,  9t>4. 

Winding  Sheet,  902. 

Wonders,  the  xxiv,  396  ;  of  Bri- 
tain, 866,921. 

Tnys  Brydein,  Gosodiad,  Rhagore 
Rhannfe,  DinessyS  &c.,  921, 
949-52,  960,  995. 


CORRECTIONS. 


p.  310, 1.  24.     Insert  [Buched  meir  vadlen]. 

p.  310, 1.  30.     Insert  [Buched  Martha']. 

p.  311, 1.  51.     For  iaith  read  ieith 

p.  323,  1.  29.     For  Apostle's  read  Apostles' 

p.  325, 1.  49.     For  Soulley  read  Sontley 

p  360, 1.  28.     For  ap  Griffith  read  ap  Jonverth 

p.  361, 1.  10.     For  At  the  foot  of  this  page  ^c.  read  A  continuation  of  the  elegy 

to  Llewelyn  ap  Jorwerth  by  D.  Senvras.     Compare  Myvyrian 

Vol.  i.  p.  219. 
p.  475, 1.  33.     Insert  hvw  Robert  lien  as  author's  name, 
p.  503, 1.  10.     For  -IS24  read  -1523.     Also  pp.  550, 1.  40,  and  554  11.  38,  89. 
p.  543, 1.  14.     For  Hen.  233  read  Hen.  253^. 
p.  546, 1.  44.     For  '^ho  read  'jolo. 
p.  623, 1.  46.     For  vnllyiegdiog  read  vnllygeidiog. 
p.  654, 1.  40.     For  NaCb  read  Na6d. 
p.  775, 1.  1 1 .    For  seem  read  seems. 
p.  839, 1.  57.    For  which  may  be  a  mistake  for  f  Grogen  read  Compare  Bodgorgen 

p.  940  I.  3 from  the  bottom. 


297 


DESCRIPTIVE    CATALOGUE   OF   i¥ANUSORIPTS    IN 
THE    WELSH    LANGUAGE. 


PENIARTH  LIBRARY. 


'MS.  l  =  Hengwrt  MS.  11.  THE  BLACK  BOOK  of  CAR- 
MARTHEISr.  Vellum;  6|  x  5  inches;  in  several  himAs  of  the  xiith 
and  early  xiiith  centuries ;  108  pages ;  wanting  several  gatherings ; 
some  of  the  large  initials  in  green  have  destroyed  the  vellum,  thus 
leaving  holes  whic'.i  malve  the  text  imperfect  in  a  few  places ;  half 
hound  in  leather. 

A  facsimile  of  this,  the  oldest  MS.  in  the  Welsh  language,  was 
published  in  tlie  Series  of  Old  Welsh  Texts,  Oxford,  1888.  For  a 
printed  Text  see  W.  F.  Skene's  Four  Ancient  Books  of  Wales,  Vol.  ii, 
pp.  1-(S2. 

"  I  have  an  exact  copy  of  this  booke  writ  with  y"  very  same  hand  with  that  on 
the  bottom  of  ....  the  2d  sidee  of  y"=  24  fol."  [=  11.  17-18  of  p.  48].  This  state- 
ment is  said  to  be  iu  the  hand  of  Dr.  Hiimphrej-s,  bishop  of  Bangor  (p.  i).  Aneurin 
Owen  has  written  a  Table  of  Contents  on  p.  iii. 

The  same  hand  that  wrote  lines  17-18  of  page  48  wrote  also  the  last  five  lines  of 
p.  79,  as  well  as  p.  80,  which  is  hiirdly  legible.  It  would  be  interesting  to  find 
Bishop  Humphreys's  "  copy"  as  it  might  contain  the  text  of  the  parts  now  missing 
in  the  Black  Book.  If  we  may  trust  the  orthography  of  the  copyist  he  had  access 
to  some  other  ancient  MS.  of  the  poetry. 

The  name  of  Jaspar  Griffith  occurs  in  Hebrew  characters  on  page  5,  and  the 
modern  writing  on  page  46,  b,  as  well  as  some  marginalia  are  in  his  autograph.  .See 
MSS.  44  and  53  infra. 

1   A  dialogue  between  Mirtin  and  Taliessin 

Mor  truan  genhyf  mor  truan  .  adeEyv     ....  a 

bithaud  .  kyffredin  .  Vy  darogan  . 

7  Proverbial  saijings — end  wanting. 

Breuduid  auelun  neithwir  yfceluit  ae  dehoglho     ...        b 
Ny  dcKliit  hael  an  nuybo  .  Ny  ry  del  || 

9       Devs  ren  rymawy  awen  .  amen  fiat     ....  c 

CIo  kelvid  .  kant  kalan  kid  .  kjnvllid  greid. 

II.  Greid  hleit  biyghaud  .  Gretyw  detyw  durawd  . 

gnaud  brauduriaeth     ....  d 

Mufic  a  gan  mal  eur  orian    .  man  vahanieth 

iir.  Gveith  reith  ryffet  .  gvich  Kuich  ryiiet  .  rinuet  reen  ...      e 
Rao  .  dac  .  drolTow  .    Reghid  bEid  bot  .  Rot  cuhelin  . 

Whether  the  following  awtyl  is  a  continuation  of  the  preceding  compositions 
or  a  separate  one  is  not  clear  from  the  MS.     The  handwriting  is  the  same. 

15  IV.  Hervit  vKten  .  autyl  kyrridven  .  ogyrven  amhad     .     .     .       f 
Gorpo  gvr  gulet  druy  tagnevet  het  o  hetiv  . 

17     (*Kym  henach  doythach  ny  dwy     Yr  bybyl  heb  wybod  beth  wetwy  g 

er  kymun  a  ddaiUenwy     dyallyr  Uyfyr  dy  ny  dwy  .  Anon.") 

*  In  a  xvith  century  hand,  Compare  /"'ouj-  Ancient  Books  of  Wu/es^  Vol.  ii, 
p.  315.  ■  ' 

e     98430.         Wt,  .  X 


298  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   1. 

18       Kyvaenad  keluit  .  kynelv  o  douit  w 

Aruun  nin  cred  ni  nep  .  othtremint  .  trvyted  . 

II.     Exeid  kid  im  guneit  .  in  agheu  digenit     ....  b 

AmlYuinaffeie  douit  im  dodath  aR  deunit . 

24       Nac  imadneiKUN  nev  .  Rimwavedun     ....  c 

Nif  Rydraeth  Ryuetev  kyvoeth  Ruytev  douit . 

27  TRi    an    Reith   march    inis   pHdein    .  CaRnawlauc   march  , 

OweiN  .  mab   VRicN  .  A  Bucheflum  feri  &c ends :  Tri  hoev 

etiftiR  inif  pRideiN  .  llv  agor  .  m  .  karadauc  .  B  .  A  melynlaf .  m  ► 
kafwallauN  mab  Bely.  || 

Apparently  some  folios  are  missing  here. 

29       MoH  duu  in  nechrev  a  diuet     ,     .     .     .  d 

Crist  ny  bu  |  ve  trift  ythorffet. 

35  Gogonedauc  argluit  hanpich  guell     .     .     ,     .  e 
Ath  uendigaf  de  argluit  gogoned  . 

36  Arduireave  ^  tri  trined  in  eeli     ....  f 
A  llofci  .  pimp  kaer  otyueti  .  wir . 

39       Jv  enu  domini  meu  y  .  voli  .  mawR  y  uolaud     ...         g; 
Kadarn  bugeil  crift  nid  adweil  ,  j  teilygdaud  . 

41        Brenhin  guJRthvin  guirth  uchaw  yffit     ....  k 

yfprid  glan  agleindid  indi . 

46  Adwin  caer  yffit  ar  Ian  llyaut     ....  * 
A  fich  heul  a  g«lich  maelguN  . 

b.        (Merdilin  wyllt  hagr  orwyllt  haint     ....  k 

ai  fedwen  fel  ynfyd-was*  IL'n  ap  Ci/nfric  ddti) 

47  Gwin  y  bid  hi  y  vedvven  in  diffrin  guy     ....  / 
Arnfer  kadwaladiR .  keRt  agauhwi. 

48  Afallen  peren  per  y  chageu     ....  m 
Kenhittor  kirrn  eluch  .  kathil  hetuch  a  hirioN  . 

62  Ojan  a  parchellan  .  a  parchell  dedwit     ....  n 
y  dav  y  dyved  ryvel  iti 

55        (Yr  arglwyd  Gorvchaf  ior  eurgledd  gwreichion  (* 

a  Gatwo  yn  da  ni  Enyd  ac  a  gatwo  yn  dynion 
Eac  '<  am  kav  a  Gwyddel  a  Rac  .  .  .  kigyddyddion 
Arac  ....  a  lledrith  a  Rac  bleiddiav  a  UedruQ 
Rac  hwnnakw  yn  ddrwc  Rac  kwn  kynnddeiriogion 
Rac  draic  awyr  a  thvvrf  a  Rac  .  .  .  brythorion 
■a  Rac  hir  ddewin  Sarff  a  Eac  kerdd  Wiliam  Sion  Anon.') 

63  E  Betev  aegulich  y  glav     ....  p 
tarv  trin  trugaret  itav  . 

(Y  Beddcu  yny  morua     .... 
bed  beli  ab  benlli  gawr)  . 

70  Kygogion  :  Cantreghis  wiguifc  amhoen     ....  y 

nythebic  drud  y  treghi .  Elaeth 

b.      Heb  coffav  duv  daun  diffrid     ....  r 

naut  duire  y  rolre  feint . 

71  Gereint  filius  Erbin  :  Rac  gereint  gelin  kyftut     ...  * 

prid  mirein  prydein  wogoned  . 


*  At  the  foot  of  the  page  in  the  hand  of  Jaspar  Griffith. 


THE  BLACK  BOOK   OF   CARMARTHEN.  299 

73       Duv  in  kymliorth  in  neRth  in  porth  in  canhoRthui  ...     a 
Tir  bpycheinavc  .  dy  iauN  priaud  .  paup  ae  gwelhv/. 

II.  Nev  Rydadlas  am  luith  evrgvaf  evai'  lyvuy     ....         b 
Hyuel  guledic  .  vt  gveith  vutic  .  id  y  guyftlvy . 

III.  Ytharkiveir  arpennic  penn  .  o  .  plant  nevuy     ....        c 
Vrten  arnav  .    Ead  ac  anaw  .  affav  aphlant . 

'78       Afluynaw  naut  duv  dianihev  y  dauN     ....  d 

Afluinaf  ar  wutiiaw  .  nant . 

79       (Tra  vom  kyd  keredd  .  goned  kydimyteith  .  &c.)  e 

81  Dv  dy  uarch  du  dy  capan     ....  f 
edricli  de  poen  imi  gan  mor  pryued . 

82  Kyntaw  geir  a  dywedaw     ....  g 
DywyccvifE  wympechaud  am  gueithred  . 

84  Mj  ae  gowinneif  y  offereid  bid     ....  h 
id  keiff  .  pop  criltaun  .  kyrreiueint . 

85  Gvledic  arbeniiic  eRbin  attad     ....  »■ 
Nam  ellug  gan  llu  du  digarad. 

86  Gwledic  arbennic  .  Ban  geneife       ....  k 
Eydid  imeneid  .  Eeid  rjdoles  . 

87  Bendith  y  wenwas  .  iE  dee  diyrnas     ....  I 
Maur  duv  hetiv  .  moli  dyvudaaeth. 

88  Bendith   nau  toryw  new  .  ir  keluit     ....  m 
Ren  new  Ryphrinomue  digerenhit . 

89  ILym  awel  Hum  bviN  .  anliaut  caSiiel  did     ....  n 
kyntaw  .  affruiN  cluymus  maRch. 

94       Pa  gur  yv  y  porthaur  .  Gleuluid  .  gauaeluaur     ...  o 

Nau  ugein  kinran  .  a  .  || 

97       II  Meinoetb  kiclev  lew  held  &c.  p 

b.  Can  if  coegauc  yffi  moreurauc     ....  q 
.  g  .  mab  lleynnauc  vRtas  . 

c.  Tarv  trin  anvidin  blaut     ....  r 
Mi  .  wi  .  wiv  .  vintev  yagliev  . 

100  Kyd  karhwiue  morva  .  calTaaue  mor     ...  s 
och  corr  dy  forrde  ymi  bv  ewnis. 

101  Marcliauc  a  gireb  y  dinas     ....  t- 
ny  haetaw  kabil  ni  thrigiaw  . 

103  Mar:  Madauc  mab  Maredut  .  Kyntel6  piidit  maur  ae  cant 

Goduryw  a  glyuaw  ar  claur  maelenit     ....  u 

Trydit  tri  diweir  teulv  . 

II.  Kywarcliaw  im  Ei  .  Rad  wobeith     ....  v 

Yg  goleuad  rad  .  ridid  perfeith  . 

106  Seithenhin  fawde  allan  .  ac  edrychuirde  varanres  ...  w 
Rug  kaer  kenedir  a  glan  .  mor  raaurhidic  a  kinraN . 

107  Eniuev  .  meibon  .  llywarch  lieN 

Tec  yd  gan  ir  adaren  ar  perwit  pren     ....  x 

talan  teleLste  deigir  imi  hetiv. 


A  2 


300  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    2, 

MS. -2  =  Hen.  17.  THE  BOOK  of  TALIESSIK.  Vellum; 
7x5  inches ;  pages  i-xii,  3-80  wanting  beginning,  middle  and  end ; 
written  ptobably  at  Neath  or  Margam  circa  \2'J-i ;  the  MS.  must  have  been 
in  its  present  state  for  a  considerable  time  as  pages  3  and  80  are  deeply 
stained,  having  evidently  been  in  place  of  covers  long  before  the  book 
had  its  present  binding.  It  is  curious  that  all  the  MSS.  written  in  the 
same  hand  are  imperfect.  Compare  for  instance  Pen.  MS.  6,  part  iv, 
Mostyn-  MS.  117,  Harleian  MS.  4353.  Pages  vii  &  ix  contain  a  Table 
of  Contents  in  the  Land  of  Aneurin  Owen,  1809. 

A  facsimile  of  this  MS.  is  also  included  in  the  Series  of  Old  Welsh 
Texts.    See  also  the  Four  Ancient  Boohs  of  Wales,  Vol.  ii,  pp.  108-217. 

There  are  a  few  marginalia:  (a)  K[yireitli]  a  fydd  ny  ddylyir  y  gwrandaw/.  ao 
ar  arall  ny  dylyir  [y  h]atleb  &c.  Cpp.  44-5).  [For  drf  lie  scribe  uses  the  thorn 
character.]  (6)  [Llym]a  enwer  y  tair  prifgeint  ar  ddec  y  rai  m  ddyly  [datkjeniat 
ga[nuyn  d]da  wrth  [gejrddonis  [gwyjhydd  aoha[ws]  gidaffob  [un]  o  honunt.  &c. 

II  [g]an  ieOyd  gan  eleftron     ....  a 

ryprynOynt  wlat  nef  adef  goreu . 

b.  Marwnad  y  vil  veib  :  AEchaf  wedi  yi'  trindaOt     ....       b 
dim  uch  dim  meint  am  clyho  . 

7  Buarth  beird  :  Ed  ympeilli  t  ymp6yllat     ....  c 

ryprynhom  ni  an  Hoc  yth  ty  di  vab  meir  . 

8  Adii6yneu  T. — AiGyn  rin  rypenyt  yryret     ....  d 

kerenhyd  a  dofyd  dydbraOt . 

10       DeGs  duO  delwat  .  g  .  |  gOledic  gOaed  neirthyat     ...  e 

■  trychanmil  blOydyned  namyn  vn  oric  odit  buched  tragywyd. 

13  Arymes  prydein  va6r :  Dygogan  awea  dygobryffyu  ...  / 

Ymperued  eu  racwed  y  dilcynnyn . 

II.  Dyl'gogan  Myrdin  kyferuyd  hyn     ....  g 

no  mynet  kymry  yn  diffroed  . 

III.  Mab  meir  ulaOr  aeir  pryt  naf  terdyn     ....  h 
hyt  ffrCt  arlego  ffohaOr  allan  . 

IV.  Dyfgogan  awen  dydaO  ydyd     ....  i 
Ar  mynych  gennadeu  ar  geuluyd  . 

V.  Dygorfu  kymry  yperi  tr6y  kyfergyr     ....  k 

ny  OyO  ny  wellyc  ny  phlyc  ny  chryd  . 

19  Angar  hyfyndaOt :  Bard  ymnn  y  mae  neu  cheint  aganho  .  .   / 
parahaOt  hyt  £En  .  ygkynnelO  elphin  . 

23  Kat  godeu  :  Bvm  yn  llia6s  rith  kyn  bum  difgyfrith  ...        m 
ac  Oydyf  drytiiyll  o  erymef  fferyll . 

27  Mab  gyfreu  T.— Kyfarchaf  ym  ren  y  yftyryaO  awen  ...        «, 

boet  ef  an  du6  an  du6ch  ytt.a6  or  diwed  . 

28  DaronCy  :  Dv6  differth  nef6y  rac  llanO  Uet  ofrOy  o 

rac  lynaOt  tan  dychyfrOy  mOe  .  An  ren  duO  an  ry  amOc. 

29  En  eiiO  gOIedic  nef  goludaOc     ....  p 
ny  wyl  gOr  ny  welas  G6allaGc  . 

30  Glafwa6t  Talieffin  .  ocxiiij.  a  tal 

Kennadeu  am  dodynt  raorynt  anuonaCc     ....  q 

efret  .  Orth  agaOd  y  geudaOt . 

31  Kadeir  T.  xxiiii:  MydCyf  Merweryd  .  molaOt  duO  dofyd  ...       r 

adOyn  y  dragon  .  daOn  y  derwjdon  . 


.THE   BOOK    OF   TALIESSIN.  301 

33  Golychafi  gul6yd  arglOyd  pob  eclien     ....  a 
kju  gOeryt  gorot  kymot  aihi  . 

34  Kadeir  Teijrnon  .  ccc — Areith  aOdyl  eglui-  .  awen  tva  meflur  . .  b 

dogyii  dOfyn  divveriii  .  diUygem  elphin  . 

35  Kadeir  herriluen  .  ccc. — Eeii  rymaOyr  titheu c 

kein  garda6t  gan  A\yrda. 

36  Kami  y  gOynt  .  ccc  .  a  tal .  Decliymyc  pOy  yO     .     .     .     .         d 
'    yn  reri  nyn  ranhei;  gun  lucllucufEer'. 

38       Kycliwedyl  am  dodyO  o  galchuynyd     ....  c 

yr  ecliOyd  .  Gorerefein  bud  oe  tat  . 

40  Kami  y  med  .  xxiiii. — Golychaf  wledic  pendeuic  pob  wa  .  .     / 
elffiinaOc  varchaOc  medhOyrdy  ogled  . 

b.  Kami  y  c6r6f .  xxiiii — TeithietmyntgOr  a  gatOynt  gOynt  .  .  .    g 
Ny  digoiiir  nebaOt  .  heb  gyfoeth  y  trinda6t . 

41'      Teithi  etmygant  .  yn  tryrtin  garant     ....  h 

ynyr  ar  tir  yn  wir  cooh  aOr  . 

42"  (jnic'dinbycli)  .    Arcliaf  y  wen  yduO  plOyf  efcori  ....  i 

COydyn  ygan  gefyn  llu   o  garant . 

44  'Plaev  yl-  eifft  .  x.c. — Efrei  etuyl  ar  veib  ifrael     ....       k 

chwecliant  milOr  milet  efrei  . 

45  °  Tra6"fganu  kynan  garioyn  .  m  .  broch 

Kynan   kat  diffret  amarllofeif  ket     ....  / 

"     ■>  kylch   byt  goch  gOochuau  .  keithynt  dygynan  . 

46  llath  moefen  :  O  pop  aduer  y  torof  uroder  dychyfaeraOt ...       m 

Geni  douyd  dyduc  perchen  lleg  egylyon  . 

47  Ton-it  anuyiiudaOr  tuthiaOl  dan  yfcaOl     ....  n 
nyt  byO  or  mod  meint  am  gOyr  . 

51  '    Ij  yg.jfeii'iUys  byt.  bu  deu  tec  ar  wlat  gMedycbylTit  ...       o 

DigonOynt  Oy  vod  duO  kyn  gO#c  tytwet . 

52  Ar  claOr  eluyd  y  gyftedlyd  ny  ryanet     ....  p 
Rac  pop  anuaOs  poet  yndilif  dinaf  diffret . 

b.       Eyfedaf  iia  chiaOr  adef  nef  yla6r     ....  q- 

A  heuyt  oe  diwet  gan  duO  trugared  . 

53  Ad  duO  meidat  dnO  dofydat  dewin  trugar     ....  r 
An  bCiym  ninheu  ynef  kaereu  kynnOyf  genhyt. 

54  Golychaf  wledic  pendeuic  g6lat  I'i     .     .     .     .  s 
na  b6yf  trift  crilt  am  gOadaO] . 

56  AR&yre  g&yr  katraeth  gan  dyd     ....  t 
ny  bydif  yn  dirwen  .  na  molOyf  i  vryen . 

57  XJRyen  yr  ech6yd  .  haelaf  dyn  bedyd     ....  u 
ny  bydif  yni  dirwen  na  mol6yfi  vryen  . 

58  Eg  gorffowys  can  rychedOyf v 

ny  bydif  ym  dirwen  na  molOyf  vryen  . 

59  Ar  vn  blyned  ar  vn  yn  4.8'rwed.    .,    .     .     .  w 
ny  bydif  ym  dyrwen  na  molOyf  vryen  . 

60  GCeith  argoet  ll6yfein  .  Kanu  vryen 

Eijoi-e  duO  fadOrn  kat  uafjr  auu,    .     .     .     .  x 

ny  bydif  ym  dyrwen  na  molOyf  vryen  . 

61  Aj'dOyre  reget  ryffed  rieu     ....  y 
ny  bydif  ym  dirwen  na  molOyf  vryen  . 


302  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   2, 

62  yfpeil  talieffin  .  Kami  vryen 

^g  g&rliyt  gogyfeirch  yn  trafferth     ....  a 

gOaladyr  gOaed  gOenwlat  vryeN . 

63  En  enO  gOledic  nef  gorchordyon     ....  b 
teyrned  teOrn  tagwedaOe . 

65  DadolOch  vryen  :  ILeiiuyd  echaffaf  mi  nyO  dirmygaf  .    .  c 

ny  bydaf  ym  dirwen  na  mol6yfi  vryeu . 
b.  Mar:  erof:  Ysichoeles  eluyd  val  nof  yn  dyd     ....  d 

trugared  dydbraOt  yn  vndaOt  heb  eiffeu . 
■66       MAdaOc  niur  menwyt  .  MadaOc  kyn  bu  bed     ....         e 

ymplith  oer  gethern  byt  jg  waelaOt  vfferu  . 
b.  MarOnat  corroi  .  m  .  dayry. 

DyffynhaOa  lydan  dylleinO  acbef    ....  / 

GOyn  y  vyt  yr  eneit  ae  harobryn  . 

67  Mar6nat  dylan  eil  ton  .  tal  .  ae  cant 

Un  du6  uchaf  dewin  doethaf  mOyhaf  aued     ....         y 
CreaCidyr  cell  an  kyunOyf  ni  yn  trugared . 
b.       ENeit  owein  ap  vryen  .  gobOyllit  yren  oe  reit     ....    A 
kyt  as  cronyei  mal  calet  .  ny  rannet  rac  y  eneit . 

68  Echrys  ynys  g6a6l;  hujynys  g6rys  gobetror    ....  i 
hael  archaedon  gan  egylyon  .  cOynOyffetor . 

ii.       Ecbiys  ynys  gOaOt  huynys  g6ryf  goch  yma     ....  k 

Ran  trugared  y  wlat  ried  buched  gyfa  . 

69  Myd6yf  talieffin  deryd  g0a6t  godolaf  vedyd     ....        I 
Dymhun  a  ehyfatcun  athal  gOin  kamda  . 

diua  hun  ogoelig . 

70  Dygogan  awen  dygobryflyn     ....  m 
pellenaOc  y  luyd  llewenyd  y  vrython  . 

71  Mar:  vthyr  pen: — Neu  \d  luoflaOc  yn  trydar    ....  n 

GOledic  nef  ygkennadeu  nam  doat  . 

72  Ksin  gyfedOcb  yamdeulOcb  .  llOch  am  pleit     ....  o 
pan  ynbo  gan  geli  adef  nef  dimbi . 

h.       RydyrcbafOy  duO  ar  pl6yff  brytbon     ....  p 

Nyt  diOyftyl  godi  die  Orth  alon . 

73  TrindaOt  tragywyd  aoreu  eluyd     ....  q 
fan  bo  vyg  hynnyd  .  genhyt  gerenhyd . 

74  G6a6t  hid  ymaOr  :  Kathyl  goreu  gogaut     ....  r 

ergrynaf  kylleltric  kaen  gan  wledic  gOlat  anorffen . 
76       Yn  wir  dymbi  romani  kar     ....  s 

Orth  awyryobif  katwaladyr  gOeith  heinif . 

78  Ymarwar  llud  bychan:  En  enO  duO  trindaOt  kardaOt  kyfrOys  .  .  t 

Brytbonic  yniwif  dydyrchefls . 

79  Kami    y    byt    maCr :    Gvolychaf    vyn    tat  .  vyn    duO 

vyn  neirthat     ....  u 

parabaOt  byt  fin  ygkynnelO  elpbin  . 

80  Kanu    y   byt    bychan  :    Kein    geneis    kanaf.byt   vn 

dyd  mOyhaf    ....  v 

Oy  a  gynbeil  y  byt  trOy  rat  yr  yfpryt . 
b.  Darogan  katwaV:    MarchaOe  mOth   mif|serin  ar    deu 

wyneb  brOytrin     ....  ^ 

ac  arall  ar  darwein  gOall  greiu   cledyfaOt 

Ac  am  Ian  11 


AUDLEU   KYNDELW  ETC.  303 

MS.  3  =  Hen.  411  &  408  (="264  in  A.  Owen's  Catalogue"). 
AuDLEU  by  Kyndelw,  Kyvoesi  Mykdin,  yr  Avalleneu  ar  Oianed, 
Bbeudwyd  Pawl,  Kynghorbu  Kadw  hen,  Ystoria  ^udas.  Vellum  ; 
Part  i,  6^  x  4^  inches  (pp.  1-12),  written  ciixa  1230-50;  Part  ii, 
6|  X  4|  inches  (pp.  17-40),  written  circa  1300 ;  both  parts  want  their 
beginning  and  end  respectively;  strongly  bound  in  white  vellum. 

1  Dadoluch  yr  argluyd  Ri/s  \\  daut  (1-  34-) 

mal  kadarn  yu  kadv  y  br^aut     ....  a 

bulch  y  gled  balch  y  gledyuaut . 

b.  llyma  ijr  eijl  aiidyl 

Cledyfrud  gOrvd  gur  a  deffry     ....  b 

glyu  vyget  gleu  wgeyl  kymry . 

2  llyma  y  dryded  audijl 

Kj'mry  dytfreydyat  kymrOyn  y  gywlat  c 

kymrOy  kat  kas  Oenwyn     .... 
lloegyr  ervyt  braulyt  bruyn  . 

3  y  betwared  attdyl 

BrOydyr  afken  br6ylc  nen  breylc  adef     ...  d 

peyr  prydeyn  prolVn  yn  tangdef . 
b.  llyma  y  bijmhet  audyl 

Tangnefed  am  naud  am  nyferOch  lyf     ....  c 

ny  6rtbyt  mab  dvv  dadoluch  . 

4  ii  uhtvechet  audyl 

Dadoluch  Uachar  Uacheu  gyuarpar     ....  f 

lle6  dragon  llyO  dreygev . 

■5    Y seijthvet  audyl. 

Dreyc  ehofyn  ehang  y  derfya     ....  g 

gOenOlat  nef  gOyr  adef  gwyryn  . 

6  yr  tythvet  audyl . 

AEdOyreaf  dreyc  f6yr  feleyc  fer  .  ardOy     ....  h 

yg  golev  adef  nef  yt  nodher .  hywed  y  dadoluch  . 

■Jr  Marunat  eynaun  vab  Madatic  vab  ydon  .  a  gant  liyndel6 . 

KywrylTed  brydeyn  yffy  bryder  ym     ....  i 

lleo  doethleo  dothyO  y  amfer  . 

h.    Yr  eyl  audid. 

Anii'er  ym  perchil"  parch  dylud  perchen     ....  k 

dor  vreyfc  daun  vrOylb  lofrud  . 

9   Y  dryded  audul . 

ILofrud  glyO  gleudor  gor  gatwyt / 

alythyey  cana6  |  llOyt . 

10  y  betwared  audul  y6  honu  . 

ILuydeflyt  y  wud  y  weyrdon     ....  m 

un  mab  inaur  Madauc  vab  ydon  . 
b.  ij  bymhet  audul . 

Un  Uofrud  prydeyn  pryderun  y  gerd     ....  n 

yd  oed  hael  tra  fu  hun . 

1 1  y  ch6echet  audid  . 

HOnn  oed  dygryf  hael  hunn  oed  digraun  gleo     ...         o 
dywed  gof  dywet  goU  eynaun.  Dywed  y  varunat . 

b.  Marunat  ryryt  vleydac  arthen  y  vraut .  kylndelb]  a[e  cant'] 

^M  peryf  dy  gard  oef  dygen  geynnyat     ...  p 

awyd  neut  afluyd  ueut  aflawen . 


304  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   3. 

12  yr  eyl  audul . 

Neut  aSawen  oef  neut  aflauar  dryft     ....  a 

neut  am  rygyr  kyrd  kj't  ymarwar  ||     (1.  4) 

The  rest  of  the  MS.  is  lost.  The  v  and  6  of  this  MS.  are  hardly  distinguishabl*. 
Pages  l:i-16  are  blanks  recently  inserted. 

Part  II.  =  Hengwrt  MS.  408. 
[Kyiioeffi  My r din  a  gwendyd  ychiraerj] 

17        II  byt  I  can  gwdoft  y  yftyr  b 

pwy  wledych  gwedy  bryhyr     .... 
gogelet  diiw  o  wendyd  : 

20       Avallen  beren  burwen  o  vlodeu     ....  c 

a  gwneithur  o  wyHt  gwaiit  hirion  [?]  15  stanzas  in  all 

23       Ovan  aborcbeftan  oed  reit  gweidi     .  ,      .  d 

y  lioli  brython  brithuyt  a  vi : — 

25  The  Vision  of  Paul:  Djw  ful  yfyd  dyd  etholedic  gan  duw  ynyr 
hwnn  y  llawenbaa  yr  eneidiev  yn  vwy  doc  yny  dydjeu  ereift.  A  gwy- 
bydet  bawb  panyw  pawl  eboltol  a  mihangbel  ydangoffes  duw  vdunt 
boeneu  viJern.  Ac  yna  pawl  aweles  gyr  broii  porth  vffern  .  dezi  tanftyt 
ac  wrth  en  keigkyeu  .  eneidycu  pecliadurieit  ygroc  .  Eei  erbyn  blew  eu^ 
peii  .  Ereill  erbyn  eu  peniiev  .  Efeilt  eibyn  eu  breuuaDtev  ....  ends: 
Ar  angel adyuauawt  .  pet  vei  bedeir  mil  ardec  a  deuvgein  mil  .  a  cban 
mil  yn  riuaw  poenev  vffern  .  a  phetwar  tauawt  haearn  y  bop  vn  ny 
pherlieynt  yn  riuaw  poeneu  iiffern  .  Wrth  hynny  pwy  bynnac  ohonam 
aglywo  ydrygev  hynn  .  Ni  adylywn  ;^mchwelut  ar  yn  arglwyd  duw  nf 
megis  ykaffom  tgyt  (ac)  ef  bucbeld  dragywyd  hep  drang  hep  orffen , 
Amen  : —  "     '     See  MSS.  U,  15,  &  32  infra;  Jesus  College  MS.  119,  ^c. 

31  The  Counsels  of  Cato  the  elder  to  Cato  the  younger :  Na  dyret 
ar  gynghor  onyth  elwir  :  kyl'tal  yw  hynny  ac  erchi  ytt  :  yfte  ygwelych 
gymryt  kynghor  nat  elych  attaw  .  kanjfs  obyd  da  dy  dyuot  ef  athelwir 
idaw  .  ac  odeuuy  hep  Jerchi  o  byd  drwc  dy  dyuot  ef  ath  yrrir  ymeith 
achewilyd  mawr  vyd  hynny  ,  Byd  Ian  .  kyftal  yw  hynny  ac  erchi  ytt 
not  yn  Ian  dy  viichcd  rac  pechodeu  ....  Gwna  0  dihewyt  dy  vryt  ath 

gafton  ac  na  wna  watwar  drwy  ymanhyed  a  gwennyeith ends  : 

Pan  wnelych  wafi'anaeth  da  gwna  yn  itawen  v.il  ybych  garedigach  gan  y 
nep  y  gwnelych  idaw  mal  nath  alwer  koU  ygyfloc  .  kany  diolchir  vyth 
gwallanaeth  "drwc  awneler  drwy  dryc  naws  a  gwc  a  gerwinep  .  namyn 
gwna  yn  llawen  mal  y  keffych  tal  adiolch  amdanaw  .  Dyl'c  dy  vryt  ac 
na  orfiowys  orgygor  hon  ac  o  dyfgeu  da  ereiit  .  canys  buched  hep  dyl'c 
a  hep  doethinep  agynhebygir  ydelvv  angheu  .  A  thi  adyborthy  lawer 
o  gymwynafleu  da  ytt  dulivn  onyt  ebreuygy  ykynghoreu  hynn  .  achyt 
ebreuY"Y<:h  di  hynn  ogynghorev  .  nyt  myui  nar  nep  ae  vodo  ytt 
aebreuygy  namyn  tuhun. 

Ar  livghoreu  hynn  aelwi'r  i-rivofiOJiiif  .r.iDii'  hb.v  yn  nrsor  kadw  ykuang  y 
UAB  .  Ac  ef  adywedir  ynwir  pwybynnac  ac  gatwo  ykynghorev  hynn  na  byd 
eiffiev  da  arnaw  ynj'  byt  hwnn  ac  y  keiff  nef  oy  eneit  pan  el  or  byt  hwnn  ac  nas, 
dwc  anghyghoiy\tth.  Cf.MS.  27  Part  ii,infra,  Sj'  Cat.  p.  Ilfi  supra.. 

40  Yftorija  Judas:  Gwr  gynt  aoed  yngkaeruffelem  aelwit  Ruben 
Ereill  ae  galwei  lymeon  o  lin  f  udas  ac  o  lin  yfachar  herwyd  ereill  .  a 
ciborea  oed  henw  ywreic  .  &c. 

Only  the  first  page,  which  is  much  rubbed  and  stained,  of  this  historia  remains^ 
Infra,  see  MSS.  5  io.  xi,  ;  7  p.  237 ;  &  14,  p.  161. 


THE   WHITE   BOOK  OF   EODEEICK.  305 

MSS,  4  &  5.  JLYVYR  GWYN  RHYDERCH,  in  two  parts 
bound  together  in  white  vellum,  and  numbered  4  &  5  respectively. 
This  is  one  of  the  most  important  and  valuable  MSS.  in  the  Welsh 
language.  According  to  the  xvth  century  numbering  of  the  folios 
MS.  5  (=  fols.  'i-clxxi'  [sic])  should  precede  MS.  4  (=  fols.  'clxxi 
[«tc]-cc]xxxxii'  =  columns  1—348).  Folios  i,  xxvii,  xlvi,  lii-lvii, 
Ixvi-lxxxiiii,  cix,  ccxix-ccxxvi,  cxxix-ccxxxii,  ccxxxv-cclxvi  are 
wanting,  as  well  as  many  folios  at  the  end  of  MS.  4.  There  arc 
several  hands  :  folios  i-li  belong  to  the  first,  and  folios  Iviii-cxxxvii 
belong  to  the  second  quarter  of  the  xivth  century.  The  Boivn  of 
Hampton  may  be  as  early  as  cols.  1-236  and  341-348  of  MS.  4 
which  belong  to  the  end  of  the  xiiith  century.  Cols.  245-340  are  a 
little  later.  The  MS.  is  unfortunately  considerably  stained  in  parts, 
and  here  and  ihere  the  text  is  slightly  defective  at  the  margins. 
Parts  of  MS.  5  arc  even  difficult  to  read,  and  parts  of  M.S.  4  are 
defective,*  especially  in  the  case  of  the  Romances  of  Owen  and  Lunet, 
JKulJiwch  and  Olwen,  and  ILudt  ^  JT^evelys.  Of  the  Dream  of 
Ehonahivy  not  even  a  fragment  is  left. 

MS.  4.  The  Mabinogion  &  other  Rojiances.  Vellum  ; 
8|  X  5|  inches  ;  folios  a-d,  clxxi-cclxxxxii,  bicolumnar  and  numbered 
1-348  respectively  —  cols.  193-204,  213-28,  237-44  are  wanting. 
This  text,  if  not  the  archetype  of  that  in  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest, 
is  certainly  from  the  same  original,  and  there  is  internal  evidence 
(cols.  327-8)  that  the  scribe  of  the  Red  Book  used  this  MS. 

Folios  a-h  are  blank,  andc-rf  have  a  table  of  contents.  There  are  a  few 
marginalia  in  the  hand  of  Sir  Tho:  Wiliems  ;  and,  also,  in  -what  appears  to  be  the 
hand  of  Jaspar  Griffith. 

Col.  1.  Pwyll   pendeuio   dyuet    oed    yn    arglOyd    ar    leith    cantref 

dyuet ends :    Sef    g6reic   a  uynnaOd   Kioua  uerch   6ynn 

gohoyO  uab  glo^'O  6allt  lydan  .  uab  caffnar  61edic  o  dyledogyon  yr  5'nys 
hon  .  Ac  uelly  y  teruyna  y  geing  hon  yraaor  mabynnogyon.        fpp.  1-25. 

Col.  38  Bendigeiduran   uab  llyr  aoed  urenhin  coronaOc  ar  yr  ynys 

hon ends :    A    llyna   ual    y    teruyna   y    geing    honn    or 

mabinyogi  .  0  acha6s  palua6t  bran6en  yr  honn  a  uu  trVded  anuat  paluaOt 
yn  yr  ynys  honn  .  Ac  o  achaOs  yfpada6t  uran  pan  aeth  y  niuer  pedeir 
decOlat  aleith  ugeint  eiOerdon  y  dial  palua6t  bran6en  .  Ac  am  giiij'aO 
yn  hardlech  leitbmlyned  .  ac  am  ganyat  adar  riannon  ac  ar  yfpydaut 
benn  pedOar  ugeint  mlyned.  tpp-  20-43. 

Col.  61  Guedy  daruot  yr  Ieith6yr  a  dyOedyflam  ni  uchot  cladu  penn 
bendigeiduran  yny  g6ynuryn  yn   llundein  ay  6yneb  ar  freinc  .  edrych 

aOnaeth   manauydan  ar  y  dref  yn  llundein ends  :  A  riannon 

auydei  a  mynOeireu  yr  effynn  Oedy  bydyn  ky6ein  gueir  am  y  mynOgyl 
hitheu  .  Ac  yuelly  y  bu  en  carchar  .  Ac  o  achaOs  y  carchar  hOnnO  y 
gel6it  y  kyuarOydyt  h6nn6  mabinogi  myn6eir  a  mynord  .  Ac  y  uelly  y 
teruyna  y  geing  honn  yma  or  mabinogy.  +pp.  44-58. 

Col.  81  Math  uab  mathou6y  oed  argl6yd  ar  6yned  .  A  pryderi  uab 

p6yll  oed  arglOyd  ar  un  cantref  arugeint  yny  deheu ends  : 

Ynteu  lleO  llaO  gySes  aorefkynnOys  eilOeith  y  Olat  .  ac  ay  gOledychOys  yn 
UOydanhus  .  aherOyd  J'dyfJeit  y  kyuar6ydyt  ef  auu  argl6yd  Oedy  hynny 
ar  6yned  .  A  y  uelly  y  teruyna  y  geing  honn  or  mabinogi.         fpp.  59-81. 

*  For  some  of  the  missing  folios  see  MS.  12  iiifra.  See  also  i\IS.  Ill  = 
Hen.  294,  pp.  117-69,  which  contains  a  transcript  of  a  part  of  the  missing  text. 

t  Compare  the  Oxford  edition  of  The  Mabinogion,  Sfc,  1887,  at  the  pages 
indicated. 


306  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   4. 

Cols.  112-116  Contain  some  fragments  of  poetry,  scarcely  legible, in  later  hands, 
with  the  signatures  John  gwyn  .  ,  ,  .  ap  hughe  Goch.  Among  the  poetry  is  the 
following  englyn  : 

Lie  mwyu  pryt  addfwyn  pres  addfeil  dyray  dayed  gwyr  a  merclied 
Pawls  nefol  plas  vn  yfed  anedd  dda  gler  nevadd  gled. 

Col.  117  Peredur :  EfraOc  iarll  bioed  iarllaeth  yn  y  gogled  a  feith 
meib  oed  idaO  ac  nyt  oe  gyfoeth  yn  beahaf  yd  ymborthei  efiaOc  namyn  o 

t6rneimeint  ac  ymladeu  a  ryueloed ends  :  Ac  yna  y  trewis 

arthur  ae  teulu  gan  y  g6idonot  .  Ac  y  Has  gOidonot  kaer  loy6  oil  .  Ac 
velly  y  treythir  o  ga«r  yr  ynryfedodeu.  *pp.  193-243. 

Col.  178  Maxen  wledic  a  oed  amheraGdyr  yn  rufein  .  Atheccaf  g6r 
oed  a  doelhaf  a   goreii   y  a  wedei  jn   amhera6dyr   oi*  a  uu  kyn  noc 

ef ends:    Ar  chwedyl  hon  a  elwir  breudOyt  Maxen  wledic 

amaeraOdyr  rufein  .  Ac  yma  y  mae  teruyn  arna6.  *pp.  s2-92. 

Col.  191  JLtid  Sf  TLevelys  :  Y  Beli  ua6r  vab  manogan  y  bu  tri  meib  . 
llud  .  a  chafwallaOn  .  a  nynbyaO  .  a  herwyd  y  kyuarOydyt  .  petweryd 

mab  idaO  uu  lleuelis end  of  fragment :  A  gOedy  hynny  eta 

ly6ywys  y  kyfoeth  yn  prud  ac  yn  doeth  ac  yn  detwyd.        *pp.  '93-4, 1.  13. 

205-212  Fragments  of  the  Romance  of  Owein  ^  Lunet ;  \\  a 
diffeitbwch  .   a   dywanu   yny  diwed  aOneuthum  ar   y   glyn   teccaf    or 

byt Ac   yr  gaer  y  buaffam   y   nos  gynt  y   deuthum   y   nolV 

honno.  *  *  *  *     229-236  h6ynt  a  dyfot  a  oruc  attunt  .  ArgI6yd  heb 

y  gwalchmei  llyma  oweiu  wedy  goruot  arnaf  i ends  with  : 

a  mynet  a  ovuc  y  lle6  y  brefleb  y  march  y  or\yed  hyt  na  leuaflei  neb  or 
gaer  vynet  yg  kyfyl  y  march  racda6  adiheu  oed  gan  owein  na  6elas 
eiryoet  lie  kyftal  y  walTanaeth  *  *  #  *  *pp.  163, 1.  17-169,1.  21  and 

182,1.  10-188,"  1.23.' 

245  Gereint  ^  Enid:  Arthur  a  deuodes  dala  llys  yghaer  llion  ar 
vyfc  .  ac  y  dellis  ar  un  tu  feith  pafc  a  phymp  nadolic  .  Ar  fulgwyn 

treilg6eitu  dala  llys  aoruc  yno ends :  A  thrannoeth  y  bore  y 

gwahanalTant  ac  yd  |  aeth  gereint  parth  ae  gyuoeth  e  hun  .  ac  y 
gwledychu  o  hynny  allan  yn  116ydannus  ef  ae  uil6ryaeth  ae  wychdra  yn 
parhau  gan  glot  .  ac  edmic  idaO  a  y  enyt  o  hynny  allan.  *pp.  244-95. 

312-.S48  Kulhwch  Sf  Olwen .  Kiiyd  mab  kyledon  wledic  a  uynnei 
wreic  kynmwyd  ac  ef  .  Sef  gOrelc  a  ffynn6ys  goleudyt  mereh  atilaOd 
wledic  .  Gwedy  y  weft  genti  .  mynet  y  wlad  ygOedi  malkaOn  a  gefFynt 

etiued breaks  off  with :  Diffeitha6  ygaer  ad6yn  a  vynnaffant 

o  tlyffeu  .  ygkyuen6  yr  vn  dyd  ymphen  y  vlOydyn  y  deulhant  y  lys 
arthur  a  chledyf  Ornach  ga6r  gantunt  ||  *pp.  100-128, 1.  12. 

The  rest  of  the  Romance  is  lost,  and  the  binder  has  inserted  si.r  blank  folios. 

MS.  5.  Imago  Mundi,  The  Gospel  of  Nicodemus,  The  Cruci- 
fixion, The  finding  of  the  Cross,  The  History  of  Pilate  & 
JuDA-S,  XV  SIGNS  before  Doomsday,  The  prophecy  of  Sibli  the 
Wise.  The  Gospel  op  the  Pseudo-Matthew,  The  Credo,  Lives  of 
St.  Katherine  and  St.  Margaret,  Mary  of  Egypt,  an  account 
of  a  series  of  Miracles  wrought  by  the  Blessed  Virgin  and  by 
St.  Edmund  of  Canterbury,THE trial  of  Jesus  before  Pilate,  Nathan 
sent  to  Eome,  The  Creed  of  Athanasius,  &c.,  The  Purgatory  of 
Patrick,  The  Charlemagne  Cycle  of  Stories,  &  Bown  of 
Hampton.  Vellum  ;  8|  x  6|  inches  =  folios  i-l  ;  8J  x  o|  inches  = 
folios  LViii-CLxxi,  which  are  bicolumnar. 

A-v    Blank  folios  inserted  by  binder,     c-d    Table  of  contents. 


See  note  \,  p.  305. 


THE  WHITE   BOOK   OF   RODERICK.  307 

i] ,  Imago  Mundi — one  folio,  containing  the  first  third  part  of  text, 
is  wanting :  ||  a  phob  peth  a  6rth6ynnepo  ida6  ..*#**  ny  ellir  y 
douy  .  Ac  yn  gangys  [a]uon  y  maent  llaflvot  a  tlirychant  cOuyt  *  *  # 
hyt  .  yuo  y  maent  pryuet  tebic  y  ^>iDck  .  a  d6y  vreich  vdunt  a  hOecIi 
cOuyt  *  *  «  hyt  .  ac  or  rei  hynny  y  toroga  yr  eliphant  .  ac  yny  tonneii 

y  sodant ends :  Petweryd  yO  yr  heul  a  m6y  naOweith  yO  nor 

dayar  .  a  phriaOt  oleuat  yO  yr  hoU  syr chwechet  y6  iouis  .  a 

deudec  mlyned  yO  ygylch  .  A  phwy  bynnac  awelei  delO  o  efuyd  ef  a 
allei  pan  dechreuei  h6nii0  gOedy  dec  mlyned  arhugeint  .  ef  a  allei 
dywedut  proui  ohonoei  .  A  llyna  diOed  yllyuyr  ael6ir  ymago  mundi. 

iiij.  {The  Gospel  of  Nicodemus)  :  [YjNyr  awyr  y  pechwys  adaf 
ymparadOys  .  ygwrthladOyt  o  honnei  wedy  y  becha6t  .  a  lief  adodes  oe 
welet  ynoeth  .  Ac  [o]  drugared  yr  argl6yd  y  kudyOt  I  or  deil  .  Ac 
o  rubuehet  y  kauas  edeOit  .  yrodet  idaO  oleO  trugared  yn  diued  y  orffoed  . 
ac  odyna  ydaeth  adaf  hyt  yglyn  ebron  y  gyt  ac  eua  y6reic  .  ac  yno  y 
diodeduaOt  laOer  o  iauuryeu  thr6y  chwjs  a  chyg#oemeint  ygallon  .  ac 

yno  yganet  ydaO  deu  vab  kayn  ac  anel atlirofTi  yolOo  tu  ar 

daear  .  Ac  yno  y  gOelei  g6reideu  y  prenn  yn  mynet  trOy  ydaear  hyt  yn 
vffernn  .  ac  yno  ydadnabu  ef  eneit  avel  j  vraOt  ....  ends  :  kymer6ch 
prenn  y  brenin  yllyd  yn  gorOed  dieithyr  y  dinas  a  gGne6ch  o  hona6  groc 
y  vrenin  yr  ydeon  .  Ac  yna  y  daeth  yr  ydeon  odieithir  y  dinas  a(thori 
y  tryded  ran)  or  trault  .  ac  o  h6nn6  y  g6naethant  croc  yr  argl6yd  .  o 
seith  gufyt  (yndy)  ohyt  .  athri  chufyt  yny  breich  (ar  veintj  ac  y 
symudhalVant  hy  hyt  y  lie  aelOir  caluaria  .  ac  ar  honno  y  crogalTant 
yn  harglOyd  ny  ieflu  grift  yr  iechyt  yr  ae  cretto  ydaO  yr  h6nn  ymae 
enryded  agogonyant  tragyOyd  ganthav. 

vj.  V  Groclith,  being  a  translation  from  the  Vulgate  of  Matthew 
xxvi,  2-xxviii,  7.  [A]  wddawch  chwi  heb  yr  ieffu  6rth  y  difgyblonn 
y  byd  pafc  guedy  penn  y  deudyd  .  ac  yrodir  vn  mab  du6  y  grogy  .  yna 
ydymgynnullaffant  tywyffogyon  yr  offeireit  .  ahynnafyeit  y  bolsyl  hyt 
yn  llys  tyOyffauc  yr  offeireit  cayphas  y  eno  .  ac  ymgygor  ar  daly  ieffu 
o  vrat  ae  lad  .  ac  yna  ydy6edaffant  na  wedey  hynny  yn  dyd  g6yl  rac 
tyfu  kynhOfryd  yny  bobyl  .  ac  eiffoes  val  ydoeth  ieffu  yn  bethania  yn 
ty  symon  glauur  .  y  doeth  gOreic  attaO  alleftreit  o  ireit  gOerthuaur 
genthy  .  Ac  yna  ydoed  yr  argl6yd  yn  gogOydaO  .  sef  aCnaeth  hy  dineu 

yr  ii'eit  am  y  ben ends :  argluyd   heb   Oynt  .  cof  yO  gennyf 

dyuedut  orbraudyr  hOnn  .  ac  ef  yn  vy6  .  y  trydyd  dyd  mi  agyuodaf 
oveirv  .  ac  vrth  hynny  arch  gadv  ybed  hyt  y  tr?/dyd  dyd  rac  dyuot 
ydifgyblon  ae  doyn  yn  lletrat  .  ac  odyna  dyuedut  ygyuody  oveirO  .  ac 
yna  y  byd  ykeueilorn  diOethaf  guaeth  nor  kyntaf  .  ac  yna  ydyuaut 
pilatus  yma  genuch  chOytheu  geittueit  Euch  acbetuych  mal  ygudauch  . 
ac  wynteu  aaethaut  yn  gadarn  )'kylch  ybed  .  acheitOeit  ygadv  ymaen  . 
ac  odyna  guaur  dyd  dy6fful  ydoethant  meir  vagdalen  .  ameir  arall 
yedrych  ybed  .  ac  odyna  nachaf  diruaur  kynhuryf  yne  daear  .  kanys 
,agel  yr  argluyd  afdifgynnaOd  or  nef  ac  adyneffaud  ytroy  ac  ymchuelut 
ymaen  ac  yeifted  arnav  .  Kyffelyb  oed  ywelet  y.  luchedeu  .  ae  dillat 
val  yr  eiry  .  ac  yna  rac  y  ovyn  ef  ydechrynn6ys  y  keittueit  .  ac  ydyuyd- 
yffant  mal  meirv  .  ac  ydyuaut  yr  agel  vrth  yguraged  .  na  vit  ovyn 
arnauch  ^  my  aon  pany6  ieffu  yr  h6n  agroget  a  geiffuch  .  nyt  ydi6  yma  , 
ef  agyuodes  megys  ydyOot  .  douch  edrychuch  ylle  y  dodet  yndau  , 
Euch  yn  gyfulym  ady6educh  ydifgyblon  ac  y  beder  yrygyuody  .  ac  ef 
ach  raculaena  chuyn  galilea  yno  ygueluch  euo  megys  ydyOot  ychuy  . 
Cf.  MSS.  7,  fols.  204-16  ij  ,  and  14,  pp.  79-80. 

viij.  The  manner  in  which  Elen  found  the  Cross:  Ac  yna  ycudyOys 
yr  ydeon  yn  lie  dirgel  yny  daear  ygroc  y  diodeuaud  crift  arney  .  ac 
odyna  ympen  ytryded  vluydyn  ar  dec  ar  hugeint  a  chant  guedy  diodef 


308  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    5. 

on  argluyd  ny  ieffu  gnft  yny  guledychey  gur  maur  anrydedw^  conftans 

yeno  dyOyllur  y  diiO ,  .  Etholuch  yr  aur  hona  o  honnauch  y 

niver  goieu  a  ujppo  ych  dedyf  .  ac  attepout  yiu  or  a  ouynnof  vudunt  . 
[A]c  wyntev  aaelhant  yii  ofnauc  dracheuen  dan  gaentach  yrygtunt 
ehuueyi)  .  ac  a  detholyfiant  riuedy  mil  o  Oyr  .  ac  y  dugaDt  hynny  at 
elen  .  ydoyu  tyl'tolyaeth  droI"tu»t  or  lleill  ar  eu  bot  yn  gyuaruyd  yny 
dedyf  .  Ac  yna  y  dyuaut  elen  vrthunt  .  guerendeuch  chvy  vyg  eireu  . 
i  .  a  chymerucli  yn  aeli  clulteu  vy  ymadraud  .  i  .  Pony  dyelluch  ch6y 
yn  llyurev  ypropffuydi  [«ic]  mal  yprophuyduyt  o  diodeuyat  crift  . 
Canys  yn  gyutaf  y  dyuetpuyt  .  mab  aenir  .  ac  nyt  adnebyd  yvam  o  gyt 

gur  .  Ac  eilOeith  ydyuat  dauid  darogannOr  ymolyannev ends : 

A  guedy  cuplav  or  vvynvydedic  elen  pob  peth  oe  neges  ygkaerufalem 
gan  ymdiret  yn  ffyd  ieffu  grift  .  yperis  ymlit  yr  ydeon  o  gylch 
caerufalem  ar  nychrettynt  .  ac  eu  deol  o  61at  iudea  .  achymeint  vu 
ffanteiruyd  griacMJ  efgob  .  ac  y  ffoynt  y  dieuyl  or  He  y  bynt  truy  yOedi 
ef  .  Ac  beuyt  ydiachaei  pob  ry6  gleiiyt  or  avei  ar  dynyon  ,  ar  wynvyd- 
edic  elen  arodes  llauer  o  rodyon  yr  efgop  santeid  h0nn6  .  ac  ae  hedeuis 
yny  tagneued  gau  rody  gorchymyu  llauer  o6yr  a  guraged  agerint  ^rid  . 
yanrydedu  cof  ydyd  yr  h6n  y  caffat  y  kyffegredic  groc  trydy  dyd  wedy 
calan  mei  .  pOy  bynuac  aaurydo  y  groc  .  Avydaut  gyurannauc  ygyt 
ameir  vam  du6  .  yn  yr  oeffoeffoed  tragywydaul .  Cf.  MSS.  7,  col.  221  & 
14,  p.  SI. 

X.  The  History  of  Pilate  (For  a  Latin  Version,  see  De  Pontio 
Pilato  narratio,  Bodley  MS.  Laud  Misc.,  633  fol.  95): — [YJNyr 
amfler  gynt  yd  oed  vrenin  eres  yeno  af  u  achaus  Jjnautaul  amoruyn  aoed 
y  heno  pila  ac  aoed  verch  yvelynnyd  aoed  yeno  atus  .  ac  ohonuo  vbu 
vab  yr  brenyn  ae  vam  agyuanflbdes  eno  ymab  oe  bono  ebuu  ac  eno 
ythat  .  ac  a  dodes  arnaO  pilatw*  .  Ac  wedy  vot  yn  teir  bluyd  ef  yd 
anuones  pila  ef  ar  y  brenyn  y  tat  .  Ac  yna  ydoed  mab  aral]  yr  brenin 
or  vtenhines  .  aoed  ogyuoet  hayach  a  ffilatus  .  Ac  wedy  eu  dyuot  oil 
ygyt .  yd  oed  eu  dofparth  ell  dev  amryffon  yn  vynycb  o  daflu  aburO  maen 
a  chaentach  o  bop  vn  ohonunt  ae  gilyd  .  Ac  eiflbes  val  ydoed  von- 
edigach  y  mab  deduaul  nor  mab  aneduaul  .  or  ragor  liOnnO  ydoed 
•wychach   ynleu  ympob  guare  .  Ac  o  hynny    yd    whOydOys  pilatus    o 

gyghoruynt  vrth  y  vraut  .  Athan  gel  ylladaud  y  vraut paub 

a  aunogynt  y  dienydav  .  Ac  eiffoes  ymedylyuys  y  brenin  nat  oed  da 

deudyblygu  wenOired  or  vn ends:  Ac  o   vraut  yrodet  diliO 

ypilatM*  yr  aghev  dybryttaf  .  Aphan    giglev  pilat?/*    hynny    ygOnaeth 

ehun  ydihenyd  ae   gyllell  ac  or  aghev  h0nn6    yteruynnOys 

Sef  yO  vygena  fford  vfEern  canys  avon  emelldigedic  oed  .  Ac  yno 
ydoed  y  kythreuleit  yn  cartrefuu  yn  waftat  .  ar  bobyl  aoed  yno  heuyt 
ny  allalTant  diodef  avlonyduch  ydieuyl  ambenn  ycorff  .  y  gurthlaffant 
yvrthunt  heuyt  ylleftyr  emelldigedic  ae  y  dugant  ef  y  tcruynev  lofan 
ygladu  .  Aguedy  gorthrymu  y  rei  hynny  o  ormod  aulonyduch  ydugant 
(lyntev  odyno  y  vrthunt  ae  v6ro  ymeun  pydeu  aoed  ymyOn  mynyd 
aoed  yn  lie  jclyOedir  bot  etua  y  pridoed  dieulic  yn  kymerOi  Ac  val 
hynny  y  daruu  y  pilatw*.  Cf-  MS.  7,  col.  231. 

xi.  liYMA  MAL  Y  TBEiTHYK  HxsTOEiA  ifoDAS  (For  a  Latin  version 
see  De  Jvda  traditore,  MS.  Ladd  Misc.  633,  fol.  976.)  :— [E]F  a  dar- 
lleOyt  ynebun  yftoria  bot  gur  ygkaeruffalem  a  ruben  oed  y  eno  .  ac  a 
eluyt  heuyt  olin  iren  o  luyd  iudas  neu  o  lin  yfachar  heruyd  ereill  .  a 
gureic  aoed  idau  oed  y  heno  cyborea  .  a  nosOeitli  guedy  bot  kyt  ydaO 

ae  Greic  kyfcu  aoiuc  hy  abreuduyt  aOelei ef  a  Oelit  ym  heb 

by  eskor  ohonaf  ar  vab  bonhedic   .   ac  avei  achaus  kyuyrgoll  kenedyl 

yfgymyn ends :  ac  odyna  ydymgroges  ehunau a 

chanys  codyalTei  ef  yr  egylyon  yny  nef  .  Ar  dynyon  yny  daear  y  dieith- 


THE. WHITE   BOOK  OF   RODERICK.  309 

ruyt  ynteu  oteyrnas  yr  egylyon  .  Ar  dynyon  ae  ketemdeitliaflaud  y  gyt 
ar  diemyl  yn  aOyr  .  Cf.  MSS.  7,  col.  237  ;  14,  pp.  161-65. 

xi6.  JLyma  yir  arOydon  a  vydant  yn  pymthec  niewarnaOt  liyn 
dydbraOt  .  a  gauas  monid  afgob  olyurcu  sein  jferonym  .  amorud  efgob 
agant  yr  eglynyon  . 

Gwyn  guaraiidav  dy  synnGyr  .  adraetlia  y  llyureu  mor  Uuyr  . 
giuthdu  goleu  giielliitor   dyrcheuit  mor  liyt  awyr  . 
Morud  meidvaul  ydeuaOi  .  oblegyt  duO  ae  dyOaut  . 
meynt  yr  aiwydon  avyd  pymthecuettyd  kynn  dydbraut  .  .  . 
Vndyd  douyd  dybyd  oil  .  poblocd  plant  adaf  obeli  . 
amut  adrut  adrytliyll  .  yn  lluyv  yny  llaun    dyall  . 

b.    Sef  yO  rat  .  yr  avyrlladen  &c.  See  Pen.  MS.  U,  p.  42. 

xii.  JLtjma  PROPH0UOLYAETH  SiBLi  DOETH  [See  Be  SibilHs  [ex 
Isidori  Etymolog.'\  Laud.  Misc.  633  (fol.  1076.)  &  478,  (fol.  1)]  :— 
Sibli  oed  vercli  ybriaf  vrenbiii  oheccube  ymam  gureic  briaf  a  honno 
aoe[d]  arnei  ainraiiaelon  enOen  .  yn  ieitb  roec  ygelOit  tyburtina  .  yn  lladin 

albunea ends  :  Ac  yna  y  daO  lief  oi-  nef  .  corn  or  goruchelder 

prafi  y  odOrd  .  ac  y  byd  t?'ilt  y  rei  truein  yn  kOynaO  eu  pechaut  oc  eu 
amryuaelyon  lauuryev  .  Ac  yna  y  dengys  y  daear  vffernaOl  defnyd  .  m 
yggOyd  yd  anl'odir  pob  petb  .  ac  y  b6rir  .  ac  yna  y  dyguyd  tan  brOnllaa- 
a61  or  nef  ad6fyr  or  vn  defnyd  .  ac  ar  hynn  y  teruyna  propbuydolyaeth 
Sibilla   gyt   ae   bre0d6yt.  Also  Red  Book,  'ol\a-bT;.     Compare 

Pen.  M.S.  14,  pp.  45-57. 

xiii).*  TLyma  mal  ytrcithir  oiniched  metr  wyry  .  ac  o  vaholyaeth  an 
hargluyd  ny  ieffu  grift  .  herbyd  mal  y  yfcriuentys  matheu  euangyl- 
yftor  yn  eurcy  .  a  sein  Jeronym  olyiiyr  tnatlieu  ae  trees  oyeith  eurey 
yn  lladin  .  trOy  adolOyn  y  gan  chromatins  ac  elyodorus. 

[Y]  Mae  cbromatius  .  ac  elyodorus  elgyb  yn  anvon  annercb  aeharyat 
ynyr  argluyd  .  oc  eu  karediccaf  vraut  wy  ygeronym  offeirat  .  nyny 
agauffani  ganedigaoth  meir  wyry  .  amabolyaeth  anhargluyd  ny  iefl'u 
grift  .  ymyOn  gev  lyureu  .  yn  yr  rei  y  guelfam  laOer  obetheu  j;ui'tbOyneb 
yn  ifyd  ny  .  Ar  pellieu  gurthodedic  oil  agudyaffom  .  lac  rodi  o  lionam 

ny  yr  ancrift  leOenyd  druy  blyc  ai-grift ends :  A  dydgueitli 

y  gelOis  iofep  atta6  ymab  hynaf  yago  oed  hOnnO  .  ac  yderchis  idaO  vynet 
yr  ard  y  gyiinullaO  caid  y  wneutbur  breffych  .  Aieffu  adoetli  ygyt  ac  ef 
heb  wybot  y  veir  ac  yiofep  .  Attbrayttoed  iago  yn  kynullaO  y  caul  . 
neidyr  ae  brothod  yny  laG  debeu  .  ac  rac  diruaOr  dolur  ef  e  leuaOd  .  Ac 
Z.C  cf  yn  diffygyaO  drOy  wberuder  ymadraud  adyOot  .  guaevy  gOaevi  . 
yneidyr  waetliat  am  bratbaud  ym  llaO  .  ^effu  oed  yn  seuyll  aryllaO  arall 
pan  gigleu  ef  ingo  yn  lleuein  .  yredaOd  tu  ac  attaO  .  Ac  y  kymerlh  ylaO 
yny  laO  yntev  .  ac  ny  wnaetb  dim  eitbyr  liwj  thu  ar  y  laO  .  Ac  yn 
diannct  y  iachaaOd  y  law  .  ac  ybu  varO  ysarff  .  Ameir  a  iofep  ny  wydynt 
pa  daroed  .  eitbyr  klybot  lief  iago  .  Yny  menegis  ieffu  vdunt. 

xx6.  T/ie  Credo  S)-c. : — [YjN  y  nio[d]  li6nn  ydyfgir  ydyn  pydelw 
ydyly  credu  yduO  .  a  charu  [dn6]  achad6  y  ydegeir  dedyf  .  ac  ymoglyt 
rac  y  seith  becliaut  marOaul  .  Ac  erbynnyeit  seith  rinwed  yr  eglOys 
yn   anrydedas    .    Agu«euthur    seith   weithret    ytrugared    yr    gobi0ya6 

nef ends  :  Ar  ny  alio  gOneuthur  y  seith   weithret  hynny  .  yn 

gorfforaul  .  Kyghor  ida6  y  gan  y  seint  gwnneuthur  y  pynip  weithret 
hynn  yn  yfpridaul  .  liyghori  annoeth  .  ae  leffav  .  a  cbofpi  enwir  er 
ydyfgu  .  aphob  t'/-ift  galarzw  y  didanu  .  Kytt  doluryaO  aguan  drCy  ygary  . 
athros  pob  agkyfyeithus  .  guediaw  du6  ytrugarav. 

*  This  is  the  Go;pel  of  tiie.  Pseudo-Matlhew.  See  Tischendorf's  Evangelia 
Apocrypha    (editio  altera).     See  also  Pen.  MS.  14,  pp.  58-78,  &  pp.  116-136. 


310  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   5. 

sxi6.  The  Life  of  St.  Catherine  : — [O]  Argluydi  guerendeuch  a 
dyelluch  yr  hynn  ady6edir  y6ch  or  wyry  vcndigeit  aelOir  Katrin  .  merch 
y  Yrenhin  conltanlinobyl  .  Alexander  y  gelOir  yn  llatin  .  Jeuang 
ydechreuaOd  waflannaethu  dn6  .  nyt  amgen  yn  oet  deuna6ml0yd  .  pan 
vuudhaaud  hi  ygOaffanaeth  du6  ac  ynirodes  idaO  oe  moiGynndaut  .  ^a 
alexandria  yd  oed  brenhin  agaffaey  ar  seint  yn  vaur  .  MaxeD  y  eno  .  .  . 
ends :    Ac   wrih   hynny   nynheu  aadolygun   .   Ac   aarchun  y  duO  yr  y 

charyat  by r<idi  yn   triigared  yn   enoittyeu   .  aiodi  yn  by6yt 

yny  byt  bOnn  yma  .  megys  y  gallom  dyuot  y  diOed  da  .  acbaru  du6  ae 
walTannaetbu  megys  y  gallom  dyuot  yr  lle6enyd  tragyOydaul  Ey  deruyd 
byth  yr  caryat  seint  y  Katriny  .  A  .  M  .  E  .  N  .  Deus  Pater  nolter  &c. 

xxuil).  The  Life  of  St.  Margaret : — [  Y]  Wenvydediccaf  vargret  aoed 
verch  yteudos  .  gOr  oed  h6nnO  breiuhyaul  yny  kyuyamffer  liOnnO  . 
eitbyr  yn  diwyll  .  ac  yn  adoli  geudyOyeu  .  Ac  nyt  oed  verch  ida6  namyn 
margret   ehunan    .    IFydlaun   oed   hi   liagen    .    achyfulaun    or   yfpryt 

glan ends:   [MJ^nbev  hagen  theotinus  adugum  corff  gwyn- 

vydedic  vargret  .  ac  ae  gofibdeis  myOa  betravt  g6edy   cbyweirav  ac 

iredeu  guerthaur  yn  anrydedz^s Diodef   Lagen  a  wnaeth  hi 

vis   gorfiennaf  deudec    vettyd  kynti   calan    avft  .   truy   rat   arodes  yn 

iacbvavdyr  ni  iellu  grift  y  gur  yllyd  vy  v  .  apbyth  a  vyd  vyO ac 

ynynhev  madeueint  oc  yn  pechodeu  .  a  guir  lewenyd  didiffic  di 
orffenn  .  gyt  ar  tat  ar  mab  ar  yfpryt  glann  .  Amen.  Also  Brit.  Mus. 

MS.  Titus  xxir.     Cf.  Pen.  MS.  14,  pp.  101-116. 

XXV j.  Petwared  vluydynn  ar  dec  wedy 

diodeiueiut  yn  hargluyd  uy  ieffu  grift  wedy  daruot  yr  ideon  llebydyav 
yftypbann  vertbyr  ■  adebol  yr  ebeftyl  offinnyev  atheruynev  iudea  truy 
amryuaelon  wladoed  y  g6afcaruyt  ypregethu  geireu  duv  Aid*  oed  ynnyr 
amffer  hvnnv  gyt  apheder  eboftol  gvr  aelwit  Maximmi««  vn  ohen 
difgyblonn  yn   hargluyd  ni  yr  h6n  y   gorchymynvys  ef    keittuadaeth 

meir  vadalenn one  folio  wanting ends  :  pvy  oed 

y  eno  .  ac  nyt  attebaud  idav  dim  .  namyn  dangos  llyuyr  aoed  yny  lav  yn 
agoret  .  Ac  yn  hvnuv  nyt  oed  yn  yfcriuennedic  dim  namyn  y  geireu 
hynn  .  Ygkof  tragywyd  y  byd  gvirion  vy  Uettywyreici  .  Ac  ny  byd 
arnei  ofyn  clybot  dnic  dyd  braut  .  Aguedy  treiglav  holl  deil  y  llyuyr 
nyt  oed  dim  yo  yfcriuennedic  namyn  hynny  Aphoet  truy  eirolet  y 
fantes  honno  ydelom  nynheu  y  vuched  tragywyd.     Amen. 

xxviij.  Mary  of  JSggpt  .—[M]eir  or  eifft  a  preffuylvys  yn  tei  &c. 
See  Pen.  MS.  14,  p.  14. 

xxviijft.  Megys  yd  oed  adaf  .  ac  eua  wedy  gyrru  o  baradvys  allann  . 
aphan  yttoed  ef  yn  lleuein  otrugared  duv  .  y  kudyvyt  eu  kywilyd  adeil 

perio-onia      ends  .   A  hvnnv  aelvit  tuualkain  .  a  hvnnv  avu 

of  .  ac  awnaeth  gyntaf  gueith  ohaearnn .  a  choppyr  .  A  thuual  kain  a  vu 
idav  chvaer  ahonno  aelvit  .  Naemina.  Cf.  MS.  14,  p.  165. 

XXX.  The  trial  of  Jesus  before  Pilate: — [Y]Nyr  vnvet  vlwydyn 
eiffeu  ovgeint  o  amperottraeth  cefar  amperavdyr  rufein  .  ar  decuet 
vluydynn  o  tywyffogaeth  herot  val  herot  vrenhin  galilea  seithuet  o 
galaii  p.brill  .  Sef  oed  hynny  .  ychuechet  dyd  arhugeint  o  vis  maurth  . 

y  betuared  vlvydyn  o  confulatus  ruffi adoethant  ar  pilatus 

ynn  erbynn  ieffu  y  guhudav  o  laver  o  gyhudeiton  drvc  .  ac  val  hynn 
y  dercbreuaffant  .  Hvnn  hep  wynt  adafnabuam  ni  .  ac  a  wdam  yvot 

yn  vap  yiofep  saer  .  ae  eni  o  veir ends :  a  chyt  kymerei  vi 

marchogyon  i  yda   ny  allaffant   kelu    guironed  yr   daroed  .  Athyftu 


*  Aid  apparently  is  a   scribal  error  for  Ac  i/d.    Compare    Vaylt  for   Val  in 
MS.  47,  Part  ii,  p.  1. 


THE  WHITE   BOOK   OF   RODERICK,  811 

rygyuodi  o  lionav  or  bed  .  ac  adavedalTaiit  heuj't  kyiiiryl  yda  onadunt 
ygan  yr  ideoii  .  vrtli  hynny  annoc  yr  brenhin  im  cliredet  ef  ygeluyd 
yr  ideon  ciuiys  tyltuys  ymarchogyon  yrygyuodi  ef  .  ac  eu  bot  wynteu 
yn  gyglioruynnvs  .  Mi  aanuoneis  arty  veddyaiit  ti  pob  path  or  a 
wnnaethpvyt  ym  dadleu  .  i  .  o  ielTii  hvnuv. 

xxxvj.  Pilate  sends  Nathan  to  Rome  to  give  an  account  of  the 
Cnicifixion  : — Pann  3'ttoed  pilat?<*  o  ynys  bont  yn  riiglav  yn  iudea 
ynydydyeu  ydoed  amperavdyr  tiheriits  yn  rufein  .  ynyr  aml'fer  hvnnv 
yrodet  yr  argluyd  .  Ac  ynyr  amser  hvnnv  yd  oed  medyanus  adan  yr 
amperaOdj/r  heuyt  yn  dinas  burdegal  .  ymbrenliinaeth  aquittan  .  yr 
honn  aalvm  iii  gwafgwyn  .  hvnnv  aoed  vcedy  ryachup  ogranc  ywynep 
hyt  y  lygat  .  Ac  yua  yd  athoed  dyn  0  wlat  iudea  nathan  yenv  .  mab 
ynavm  hyfmaelites  .  y  borthmonaeth  neu  newituryaeth  owlat  ywlat  .  ac 
ovor  ygiiyd  yggoylch  ydaear  oternyn  yteruynn  .  Hvnnv  aanvonadoed 

yna  aryr  amperavdyr  parth  a  rufein anryued  vu gan 

yr  amheravdyr  .  adyvedut  .  Byv  yv  yr  argluyd  .  pei  ryallylTvn  ni 
welet  y  p7-ojjhuyt  hvnnv  .  ef  a  allaiTei  vy  iachau  .  i  .  o  glauri  yffyd 
arnaf  .  Hep  y  kynnadeu  .  iitiis  a  vafpafian   a  anuonafl'ant  atat  drech 

yr  argluyt A  phan  dattoded  rac  bronn  yr  amperavdyr  dodi 

y    enev    vrth   y   drech    .  ac   yn    diannot  caSel    iechyt    or   c'auri   aoed 

aruav ends :  fic  yna  y  gorffvylTvys    corfF   pilatw.s  .  Canys 

ymagori  noruc  y  garrec  ac  erbyn  y  corfE  yndi  .  Nac  odldyvynyd  .  nac 
odywaeret  ytremyno  llongeu  yr  auon  honno  .  y  tu  arall  y  kerdant  rac 
eu  bodi  or  dvfyr  o  enwired  pilatjf*  .  ac  eu  tynnv  ywaelaut  yr  hynn 
ymaent  yny  ofynnhaw  *  er  hynny  hyt  hediv. 

xxxviij.  Transitus  Marie:  [M]Ellito  was  c?'ift  efgop  egluys  fardini  . 
ynn  anuon  annerch  yn  tagneued  crift  eu  anrededuffon  vrodyr  ygkrilt  . 
yrei  aoedynt  yn  laodicia  .  Tra  yitoedvnn  yn  kyuanlbdi  deu  weithret 
ychui  .  nyt  amgen  o  ffyi'd  y  prophuydi  .  ac  o  gnavdolyaeth  yr  avghiyd  . 
onewyd  yd  yvch  ymdeilTyueit  am  gyuanlbdi  traethaut  yuch  avei  hyfpys 

genuch  odiwed  meir  wyry megys  y  kettuis  hi  y  gweryndaut 

aemorvvyndavt  &c.  :  imperfect,  the  outer  half  of  folio  xl.  being  torn  away, 
ends :  Ac  yn  diannot  y  kyuodes  y  gyflegredic  veir  or  bed  *  *  *  ... 
y  datkanu  ac  y  bregethu  mawrwyrtheu  *  *  *  ac  a  wledycha  yny  trindaut 
perffeith  teir  per  *  #  *    anwahanedic  yn  oeffeu  yr  oel'foed  Amen. 

[Ar  llyuyr  hwn  a  ymhoeles  Madauc']  ah  selyfo  ladin  ygkymracc  .y  Ruffnd  ma\b 
Maredud  ap  yOeiu  Sfc.].  Cf.  fols.  Ixxxxviift.  If  MS.  14  p.  27  infra. 

xl-xlviii.  The  text  of  these  folios  was,  apparently,  transcribed  direct  from. 
Pen.  MS.  14,  pji.  1-44,  which  see  below. 

xlviii6.  The  Creed  of  Athanasius  Welshified  for  Eva  daughter  of 
Meredith  : — [MJEgys  ydynnvaflanaethant  aelodeu  vn  corff  yn  eu  kyu- 
reideu  .  val  y  troet .  nev  lav  yr  penn  .  ar  llygat  yr  troet  .  veDy  ydylyant 
aelodeu  duv  ym  nerthu  hyt  na  bo  gwell  ar  neb  ohonunt  .  vrth  hynny  . 
can  dyelleis  .  i  .  dyuot  ti  enrydedus  eua  verch  varedut  yn  damunav 
caffel  credo  anathal'ius  lant  ygkymraec  .  Ykymereis  .  i  ,  arnaf  vychydic 
olauur  ytroy  yrcredo  hvnn  yn  ieith  y  gellj'ch  ti  y  darllein  ae  dyall  .  o 
heruyd  ysynnvyr  arodes  duv  ymi  kynny  bechvn  na  chvbyl  na  pherffeith 
y  traethu  peth  kyuuch  ahynny  .  nac  ywneuthur  pet  avei  wiw  yth  vreint 
titheu  athanryded  .  Vn  peth  hagen  adylyy  ti  ywybot  ary  dechreu  pan 
troffer  ieith  yny  Hall  megys  lladin  ygkymraec  .  na  ellir  yn  waftat  symut 
y  geir  yny  gilyd  .  a  chyt  ahynny  kynnal  priodolder  yr  iaith  .  a  synnvyr 
yr  ymadravd  yn  tec  .  vrlh  hynny  ytroes  i  weitheu  ygeir  yny  gilyd  . 
Agveith  ereill  y  dodeis  iynnvyr  yn  lie  y  synnvyr  .  Heruyd  mod  . 
Aphriodolder  .  yn  ieith  ni  .  Hynn  weithon  a  gymereis  i  arnaf  ywneu- 
thur yr  lies  ylprydaul   .   a  didanuch  yti Pvy  bynuao  avynho 

iachav  yeneit  yn  gyutaf  peth   reit  yv  idav  ef  kynnal  cret  gyffredin  yr 


312  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    5. 

egluys  .  Aphuybynnac  nys  cattuo  yn  gyuan  .  ac  yn  dilvgyr  .  diogel  yv 
idav  cf  y  collir  .  Ac  y  diffruythir  yntragyvyd  ygorfF  ae  eneit — EfEyd 
weithon  gyffredin  yv  lionn  .  credu  yduv  yuteir  perfonn  .  ar  teir  petfon 
yn  vn    duv  .   ac   iiy   dyly   nep   kyniyfcu   yperlbnnyeit   ca   gwahanu   y 

dvyolaetli ends:  [H]onn   weithonn  yv  ffyd  gyffredin  y  crift- 

onogyon  .  aphvybynnac  nychattuo  yffyd  houii  yn  ffydlavn  .  Ac  yn 
diyfcoc  .  ac  ny  chretto  val  liynii  ny  byd  idav  ymwaret  na  ieebyt  y  eneit 
ynn  tragywydaul — 

[CjRedo  anaftafiusfant  y  geluir  yr  hynn  atraethvyt  yma  hyt  hynn  . 

ar  braut  gvuffut  bola  ae  Iroes  or  lladiii  yghytnraec  yr  eo.ryat  eua 

verch  vareditd  ap  ywein  ae  henryded. 

xlix6.  ILyma  yragoreu  ageifE  yueb  a  wellio  ccrff  crift  pan  ganer 
offei'en  .  &c. 

2  ILyma  val  ydyly  dyn  tra  warandav  offerenn  .  sefyll  ac  nat  eiftedho 
&c. 

3  ILyma  enwev  ypetvar  hynyeif  arhugeint  .  a  vydant  gcr  Ijroiin  yr 
argluyd  duv  yn  waltat  &c. 

4  Pyoet  vu  adaf .  deudegmlyned  arbugeint  aiiav  cant  Pvy  yv  y  dyn 

ny  anet  .  adaf  ny  anet Pvy  agladvyt  ygkallon  yvam  .  Adaf 

&c ends :  Paham  na  chwennychant  yr  annyueileit  kyt  guedv 

yd  aruollynt  megys  &'i Y  gvraged  doofparthus  guedy  caffo 

cil  env/i  y  hetiued  yr  hvnn  agaulTant  gynn  obynn  a  dvgant  ar  gof  ac 
agyffroaut  ar  ewyllys. 

1.  Deudec  ebeftyl  akytneralYant  ranneu  y  byt  y  pregetbu  .   Peder 

agymerth  rufein  &c ends :  Nytlial  dim  y  neb  dyn  eiflVedic 

ny  alio  ymwaret  arnav  o  neb  vn  geluydyt  .  Nythal  dim  yneb  flaut 
aochelo  ygrynnodeb  ynny  amffer. 

2.  [G]vao  efdyn  carv  dyn  arall  .  a  duv  guir  yny  garv  ef  .  ac  nachar 
ef  duv  .  Guae   ef  dyn  whenychu  dygvydedic   atheyrunas  yn  adavedic 

idav  ynteu   ac  nacheis   yhennill ends:  Guae  dyn  galTav  y 

gymodauc  .  ac  na  wediav  byth  dros  yneb  awnnel  cam  idav. 

16.  [Ajmryflbn  ath  gyffelyp  .  pedrus  yv  it  .  Amryffon  ar  neb  avo 
moe  nothi  .  ynvyttruyd  yv  it  .  AmrelTon  ac  auo  is  no  thi  .  dielo  yv  it  . 
[M]eddavt  holl  gorff  dynaul  .  alogyr  ac  atreula  .  ao  avloefga  ybarabyl . 
ac  a  logur  ywaet  .  acavriva  y  oluc  .  ac  a  gynnliyrua  ac  a  vloelca  y 
emenyd  .  ac  a  wanbaa  yr  aelodeu  .  ac  a  leihaa  y  synnvyr  .  Agweithredeu 
da  ycorflf  a  teruylca  .  ar  corff  ehun  a  teruyfca. 

A  translation  of  the  opening  verses  of  the  Gospel  of  John  followed  by 
a  commentary  : — [E]Ny  dechreu  yd  oed  geir  .  ar  geir  aoed  at  duv  .  a 
duv  oed  ygeir  .  ahynn  aoed  ar  y  dechreu  gyt  a  duv  .  affo  peth  truydav 
ef  awnaethpuyt  .  ahep  dav  ef  ny  wnaethpuyt  dim  .  ar  pet  awnaethpuyt 
yndav  ef  buched  oed  .  ar  vucbed  oed  leuuer  yr  dynyon  yr  [sic']  .  ar 
lleuuer  alevycba  yny  tywylluc  .  ar  tywylluc  nys  amgyffredaut  .  Ef 
anvonet  dyn  ygan  duv  .  yr  hvnn  oed  yeno  ^euan  .  hvnn  aoed  yn  tyft 
yroi  tyftolyaeth  or  goleuat  &c.  &c.  endiug  on  fol.  li^  I.  7. 

lift.  Folio  li.  is  a  mere  strip  down  the  inside  of  the  MS.  and  folics  lii.-lvii. 
are  now  represented  by  blank  leaves.  On  folio  li"".,  line  8,  begins  u.  theological 
treatise  in  Latin. 

Iviij.  The  Purgatory  of  Patrick: — Pvrdan  padric  ygelOit  hOnn  . 
Ybra6t  henri  yr  hOnn  lleiaf  or  myneich  Mab  vfyd  er  du6  .  ac  en6  yn 
rod  vuyd'^aut  ygyt  achylTylldedic  annerch  ygkrilt  .  Y  rac  damunedic 
arglOyd  ylienri  abbat  olertyle  .  yanrydedus  tat  .  cbOi  .  aorchymyu- 
nyfaOch  ynn  anuon  yn  yfcriuennedic  yOch  yr  hynn  ady6edeis  yglybot 
ynn  an  kyttrycholder  or  purdan ends  :  Dos  tracheuen  adiogel 


THE    WHITE    BOOK    OF   RODERICK. 


313 


yOit  .  cany  Gely  yr  aruthter  aOeleil't  gynt  yny  mynyd Yntev  a 

gerd6ys  yn  tiuaii  .  ac  yn  trift  .  Mynliei  .  na  mynhni  .  ac  agyrnerth  eu 
benndith  .  ac  ynii  trilt  oleic  .  eF  aymhoela6d  dr[a]chcneii  yr  vn  fFord  y 
datlioed  .  heb  y  voleftu  o  neb  vy()  boen  orei  gynt  a6ellTei  .  a  phorth  yr 
ogof  agauas  yn  agoret  .  ao  yblith  ycGuont  ydoeth  .  au  ymenegi*  vdunt 
yhynt  .  or  pan  aethoed  jt  ogof  yuiyOu  hyt  pinn  deu  ymaes  ohonei  .  ac 
yna  yperis  yprior  yfcriuenav  ydam6ein  ef  .  ac  yno  ymae  yntrigyaO 
hyt  hedi6  . 

Ixv.  (Obitus  EliCfe  ap  Gruff  .  ap  Eigao«  Anno  dai  Millesimo  cccc  lx.sxix. 
Et  A"  tegni  H.  vii.  quarto.) 

Ixv6.  Later  writiug  aud  difficult  to  read.  There  is  here  a  short  Cywydd  of 
16  lines,  endiLig — 

Gauou  dlws  ban  ganneid  loew  Vauyd  ap  Gwilim 

Ixxxv.  *  Charlemagne' s  Expedition  to  Spain,  S)-c. : — [T]vrpiii  arch- 
efcob  remys  orat  du6  agOallat  getymdeith  .  charlymaen  amheraOdyr 
yn  anuon  annercb  y  leoprant  dija"|y  graOndOfyr  .  Canys  adolygeil'ti  ymi 
ydiOed  hOnn  afu  yn  vien  yn  glaf  o  greitheu  vyggOelioed  .  ylcriuennv 
yt  pa  del6  yrydha6d  y  clotuorulaf  charlymaen  daear  yr  yfpaen  ar  galis 
ovedyaiit  y  Saralinnyeit  .  ar  g6eitliredoed  enrydedt<.s  .  ar  budugolyaetbu 
molyanuiw.    A  edrycheif  .  i  .  am  llygeit  idaO  ef [PjAnii 


*  The  following  parallel  passages  from 
relation  to  one  another  : — 

MS.  9,  fo.37.  Ef  a  rodes  uduut 
llurygeu  acbjohledyueu  .  ahelmeu  . 
a  pbob  kyfry6  arueu  or  a  vei  reit 
yg6aflanayth  marchogyon  .  Ac  nyt 
reit  ini  na  gobir  na  Hauur  y  gan- 
ina61  y  rodyon  .  pan  atto  y  rodyou 
ymdangos  yn  a;«10c  o  helaotlider 
eurodya6dyr  .  Eur  ac  aryant  a 
ych\vaneg6ys  yracdywededigyon 
#  #  *  rodyon hjny  .  ajibOybynhac 
auynho  gOybot  nicint  hyny  ef  a  ell 
yhun  adnabot  eu  bot  yn  ohalaytb 
yny  uedylyo  ac  yd  edrycho  maOr- 
edicrOyd  eu  rodyaOdyr  .  A  gOedy 
kymryt  arOyd  y  groc  ar  y  bj'i- 
gOydeu  ybrenhin  ay  wyrda  a  gym- 
eralTant  eu  hynt  parth  a  dayar 
garufalem. 

MS.  7,  col.  51.  Ac  ef  arodef 
vdvnt  [y  llurygjeu  arkledyfev  ar 
belymcu  ac  arveu  ereift  reit  yn 
arver  marchogyon  Ac  nyt  reit  gobir 
yvoli  yrodyou  yn  wahanretawl  pan 
after  yn  diaraheu  eu  canmawl 
ofyberwyt  eu  rodyawdyr  ay  hel- 
aethrwyd  Ar  uep  avynno  gvvybot 
beth  oed  eu  meint  yrodyon  dyaSet 
herwyd  helaethrwyd  eu  rodyawdyr 
Achroel'eu  agymeraflant  adecbreu 
eu  hynt  yn  llawen  gyt  ac  eu  bren- 
hin  aorugant  parth  atbir  kaer- 
iiffelern  o  garyat  y  gwr  adiodefawd 
yno  ar  groc. 

e     98430. 


different  MSS.  will  clearly  indicate  thjir 

MS.  5,  fo.  CXI.  Ef  a  rodes  vdunt 
llurygev  .  achleuj'dev  .  ahelmev  . 
'd.  phob  kyfry6  aruev  or  a  vci  reit 
y6alTanaeth  marchogyon  .  Ac  nyt 
reit  yni  na  gobir  na  llauur  y  gan- 
ma61  y  rodyon  .  pan  aallo  yrodyon 
ymdangos  yn  amlOc  ohelaethder  y 
i-oda6dyr  .  Eur  ac  aryant  a 
ch6aneg6ys  yrac  dy6ededigyoil 
rodyon  hynny  .  aphOybynnac 
avynno  gOybot  meint  hynny  ef  adi- 
gaOn  ehun  adnabot  eu  bot  ynhehal- 
aeth  yny  medylyho  ac  yd  edrycho 
ma0redigr6yd  en  rodaOdyr  .  A 
gOedy  kymryt  ar6yd  y  groc  ar  eu 
hyl'gOydev  .  y  brenhin  ae  Oyrda 
agymeraffant  eu  hynt  parth  adayar 
garufalem. 

Bed  Book  of  Hergest,  col.  607 
....  rodi  iidunt  fturygeu  achle- 
dyuev  .  ahelmev  ac  aruev  ereift 
avei  reit  ydiwaftu  niarchaOelu  .  Ac 
nyt  reit  gohir  y  voli  y  rodyon  yn 
wahanreda61  .  pan  after  yndiameu 
eu  kanmaOl  olyberGyt  eu  rodya6dyr 
ae  baelder  oeur  ac  aryant  ac  aruev  . 
Ar  neb  a\ynno  g6ybot  y6  meint  y 
rodyon  .  dyaftet  eu  meint  lier6yd' 
fyberOyt  eu  rodynOdyr  .  CiKJy.s 
agymeraffant  ac  eu  hynt  yd  aethant 
gyt  ac  eu  brenhin  parth  a  chaer- 
vfalem. 


314  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    5. 

OalgarOyt  yr  ebel'tjl  .  a  dilgyblon  yr  arglOyd  y  bedryuannoed  byt 
ybregetlTj  .  Orth  hyimy  ygoneduffaf  eboftol  iago  .  ady6edir  y  bregethu 
yn  gyntaf  yny  galis  .  A  gOedy  lad  yntev  o  erot  greulaOn  .  ynydi6ed 
ydoeth  o  gaerufalem  tros  vor  dilgyblon  ereill  y  bregethu  yr  galis  .  Ac 
6yntev  y  galifeit  odyna  yny  gobryuei  eu  pechodeu  aymada6fl"ant  ac  cret 

hyt  yn  oes  charlymaen  amheraOdyr  rufein  .  a  freinc  &c ends  . 

a  pba  pburyf  y  due  gantaO  odyno  croc  yr  argl6yd  or  honn  y  berthoges 
ef  UaGer  o  egl6yffeu  ny  allafi  nae  hyfgriiienu  .  nae  datcanu  .  Mwy  hagen 
diffyc  y  ilaO  ar  y  pin  .  noe  weithredoed  mawrhydic  ef . 

Ar  llyuyr  hOnn  a  ymhoeles  mada6c  ab  Selyf  o  ladin  yngkymraeo  . 
o  adolGyn  a  deilyf  grufFud  ap  maredud  ap  y6ein  vap  gruffud  ap 
Eys. 

In  other  words  the  text  hitherto  is  a  translation  of  Chapters  i-xx  of  an 
edition  corresponding  with  F.  Castle's  Turpini  Historia  Karoli  Magni  et 
Botholandi,  1880  .  Then  fellows  : 

Ixxxxvii.  [BjRenhin  yr  ynyflbed  anrededi<*  brenbin  yrynyffed  . 

Reinallt  arderchaOc  .  brenhin  yr  ynyffed  kenedylaOc  yn  tridyblyc 

owyrth   .   agOeithret  .  achenedyl  .  amyuy  yu  gymelledic  oth  arch 

di  y   dechreueis  .  i  .  ygOeithret   h6nn  .  ar  yr  h6nn  ydodOu  .  i  . 

ternynn    pei  na   bei    rae    keryd   vy  anallu  .  Ac   Crth   bynny  ybu 

deOilfach  gennyfi  ada6  y  llyuyr  hOnnO  ynn  an  orfEenn  noe  ymhoelut 

oth  arch    di    orOmans  yn  Uadin  yn  yr  h6nn  ny  chyfadefa  vi  vymot 

yn  a6dur  namyn  yndyallGr  ylstoryaev  .  Ac  Orth  bynny  tydy  leaOdyr 

ocheffy    di  yny    llyfyr    h6nri    ditn    agkredadun    .   nev   agkyfun  yr 

■wironed  .  na  li6a  yr  golyfia6dyr  namyn  ya6dyr  ygOeithret  kyntaf  . 

cany  dylyir  gal6  yn  eua6c  dakan6r  gev   arall  .  namyn  yneb  avo 

dycliymygyaOdyr  yr  aOdyr  kywtaf  yr  gev  .  Ac  or  llyuyr  lladin  hOunO 

yd  ymhoelot  h6nn  ygkymraec. 

Then  comes  the  text  of  the  French  Eomance  of  Otiuel  or  Otinel. 

[A]  phOy  bynnac  avynhogOybot   .  neu  warandaO  chOedel  grymys  .o 

TvaftadrOyd  y  vryt  .  ymoltecket  .  a  ninheu  adraeth6a  idaO  ef  o  vlodeu 

y  chOedlev The  text  breaks  off  with  fol.  cviii  :  A  gOedy 

^Footnote — continued. 

MS.  8,  p.  3.  Ac  ef  arodes  vdunt  MS.  86,  p.  1.    [Ac  ef  a   rodes 

yllnrugev  arkledyvev  arhelmev   ac  udunt    y    llury]gev    achledyvev  a 

arvev  ereill  val  y  bei  reit  yn  aruer  helmev  ac  arvev  ereill  ayei  reit  yn 

marchogyon   .  Ac  nyt    reit    gobir  arver    marchogyon    .    Ac  nyt  reit 

yvoli    y   rodj'on     yn    wahanredawl  gohir  y  voli   yrodyon    yn  wahan- 

pan  after  yii  diamhev  ev  kanmawl  redawl  pan   aller  yn   diamhev   ev 

ofyberwyt   ev  rodyawdyr  ay  ehel-  canmawl  offyberwyt  ev  rodyawdyr 

aythder  .  Evr  ac  aryant  a  rodes  yn  ae  ehelaethder  oe  evr  ay  aryant  . 

didlawt  adogued  o  arvev  .  ar  nep  Ar  nep  a  diflyvo  meint  y  rodyon 

adiflyuo   befh   oed  meint  yrodyon  Dyallet    ev    meint    lierw^d    ehel- 

dyaftet  y  meint  herivyd  haelder  ev  aethder  ev  rodyawdyr  .  A  chroessev 

rodavedjT  .  A  chroeffev  agymeraf-  agymeralTant   ac   y    ev    hjnt    yd 

fant  adechrev  hj'uryt  gyt  ac  aethant  gyt  ac  ev  bj-enhiu  .  Ac  o 

ev  brenhin  parth  a  thir  gyffrediu  gjnghor  yd  edewit  &c. 
y  gwr  adiodevawd  yno  ar  y  groc. 

MS.  10,  fol.  56.  Ef  vdunt  fturygeu  .  a  chledyueu  .  a  helmeu  .  a  phob 
kyfrivp  arueu  ereift  or  a  vai  rait  yn  aruer  marchogeon  Ac  nyt  rait  ymi 
kyfri  y  petheti  hy?niy  erbyn  eu  lienweu  .  canys  gellir  atnabot  eu 
moleant  yn  amlwc  herwyd  ehelaethder  eu  rodeawdyr .  Eur  ac  areant 
a  meirch  ac  arueu  athlyffyeu  a  achwanegodyw  niuer  .  A  gwedy  kymryt 
y  croelTeu  o  honunt  ar  eu  hyfgwydeu :  ybrenhiu  ae  wyrda  a  gychwyn- 
aflant  y  eu  hynt  parth  ar  daear  gylTegredic  .  ar  vrenhines  &c. 


THE   WHITE  BOOK   OF   EODERIOK.  315 

gOifcaO  ymdana6  yfgynnv  ar  y  varch  aoruc  Ofcuel  ,  a  mynet  y  gyfr6cli 
ar  breniii  a  dyOedut  6rtha6  ar  || 

Of.  Reu  Book  of  Heroest,  eol.  436.  It  is  clear  that  one  or  two  gatherings 
must  be  missing  from  the  MS.  at  this  place,  and  not  one  folio  as  indicatecl  by  the  old 
numbering,  othervfise  the  story  of  Otiuel  must  have  been  incomplete.  The  Wnmi 
Book  text  is  practiciUy  in  verbal  agreement  with  pp.  1-52,  line  33,  of  Ystobia  ve 
Carolo  Magno  taken  from  the  Red  Book  or  Hercest  and  printed  by  the 
Cymmrodorion  Society  in  1883. 

The  Expedition  of  Charlemagne  to  Jerusalem  and  Constantinople,*  that  is  to  say, 
the  Adventures  with  Hu  Gadarn  follow  next  : 

ex.  [P]Ann  yttoed  charlys  yggOylua  yfulg6yn  yn  Seint  ynys  ynn 
g6ilca6  coron  yvrenhinyaeth  amy  bean  Ac  yn  g6ilcaG  cledyf  yteyranaf 
amy  yftlya  ar  Garthaf  y  g6ilcoed  ma0r6eirtha6c  .  ar  berlbn  brenbinaOl .  ar 

anfa6d  vrenliineid ends  :  A  gOedy  o  offrymu  yr  allaOr  ooffrOm 

teil6g  .  rannv  aoruc  ykreirev  a  dathoed  gaiitaO  y  eglOyflev  i'reinc  .  A 
rodi  kerennyd  aoruc  yr  vrenhines  .  amadev  idi  y  goddyant  ae  geOilyd  . 

Then  we  have  the  following  explanation : 

cxviii.  [H]yt  yma  ytraetha  yftorya  a  beris  Rayuallt  vrenhiu  yr 
ynylToed  y  athro  da  ythroffi  oweitliredoed  charlymaen  o  r6man  yulladin  . 
Ac  amryllon  yvrenhines  val  ytraethOyt  vchot  oil  .  Ac  nyt  ymyrrOys 
turpiii  yn  bynny  kannys  gOr  eglOylVic  oed  .  Arac  gyrru  aruaO  beth  gorOac 
nyphertbyuney  ar  leindyt  .  O  hynn  allann  ytraetha  turpin  oweitbred- 
oed  cbarlymaen  ynyrylpaeu  .  ac  o  enO  du6  aiago  eboltol  &c. 

Though  told  "  that  from  here  forward  Turpin  narrates  the  deeds  of  Charlemagne 
in  Spain,"  fohos  cxviii-cxxxii  agree  only  in  subject  with  chapter  xxi  of  Turpin. 
The  Welsh  textf  omits  all  mention  of  the  "women  and  wine  "  sent  as  present,  but 
gives  a  fuller  account  of  the  treachery  and  the  fighting.  This  part  of  the  text 
begins : 

Odyna  jdoetb  beligant  gOr  enryded?**  yngennat  ygan  varfili  at 
charlymaen  y  erchi  ida6  dyuot  atta6  ac  yntev  agymerei  vedyd  .  Ac  a 
eyftygei  oe  bendeuigaeth  ef  .  Ac  yna  ygouynna6d  charlymaen  oe  gygbor 
a6elir  ychOi  bot  yn|yiaOu   kymryt  marfli  yr  hOnn  yflyd  yn  adaO  tr6y 

grift ends :   Ac  yna  y  cannaffant  y  kyrn  ac   ar   kyrn   yd 

jmladalTant  .  ac  velly  y  cwplaaffant  y  vrOydyr  trOy  y  kyrn  y  gnotteit 
annoc  y  g6yr  yny  vrOydyr  .  Ac  velly  y  lias  y  pagannj-eit  .  ac 
ychydic  o  nadiint  a  diengis  a  ffoaffant  ar  varfli  .  Ac  nyt  oed  lei  eu 
houyn  yno  ,  nuo  rac  bron  rolond  ae  la  .  A  thra  welei  rolond  wy  .  ef 
ae  hymlittyaOd. 

Thence  forward  the  text  follows  the  Turpini  Historia  KaroUMayui  et  Rotholandi, 
chapters  xxii-xxxii,  and  ends  with  the  following  words  from  Appendix  A. 

Ac  yny  dydyeu  hynny  .  y  kymerth  rei  or  yfcolheigon  corff  turpin 
ynn  ylgrinn  yn  enrydedus  ac  efcobOlfo  am  danaG  Ac  ydugant  yr  gaer 
ytu  arall  yrou  .  ac  ykladylTant  ynyr  eglOys  y  mae  yr  aOr  honn  yny 
enrydedu  .  Ac  ynn  kymryt  coron  j'ny  nef  .  mal  yd  baedaOd  o  vj'nycli 
laOeryon  lauuryev  tra  vu  ar  ydayar  ynn  dial  gOaet  yr  argl6yd  grift  . 
Ac  ymae  yvar6nat  vch?  y  benn  o  wydyr  tec  enrydedM*  .  Ac  velly 
yteruynha  yftoiya  charlymaen  oe  vi'eithredoed  ynnyr  yfpaen  .  Ac  ynn 
lla6er  oteyrnnaffoed  ereill  ynn  treula6  yuuched  amfera61  dros  uuched 
dragyOydaOl  ynn  ymlad  ynn  erbyn  pagannyeit  .  a  gelynnyon  an  gOir  ni 
ieffu  grift  .  yr  li6nn  abaratoes  ida6  yntev  le  yny  net  dros  ylauur  yny 
byt  hOnn. 

*  For  the  French  original  see  Karls  des  Grossen  Reise  nach  Jerusalem  und 
Constantinofiel,  ertited  by  Ed:  Kosohwitz  (Heilbron,  1880). 

f  See  Campeu  Charlymaen,  edited  by  Robert  Williams,  M.A.  (London,  1874), 
sections  lxxxv.  to  the  end.  Canon  Williams's  text  is  a  composite  one,  and  the 
following  analysis  may  prove  not  useless  to  specialists.  Sections  i-xx.  =  MS.  5  ; 
§xxr.-xxviii.  =  a  hopeless  mixture  of  MSS.  8  &  5;  §xxtx.-xli.  =  MS.  8;  §xlii.- 
Lxxix.  =  MS.  5  ;  §Lxxx.-Lxxxiv.  =  MS.  10,  fols.  36-38a;  §i,xxxv.-cxxi.  =MS.  5. 
The  references  ar.;  all  to  Feniarth  MSS.     The  printed  text  is  not  reliable. 

B    2 


316  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS    5-6, 

csxxviii.  BowN  QF Hampton.  [Y]n  hamt6n  yd  oed  larll  a  elOid  GiOn 
ac  aruer  aOnaeth  na  vynhei  wreic  yny  i(!ueingtid  .  a  gwedy  hynny  pann 
ymdreiglaOd  parth  a  heneint  y  gwregkahaOd  .  Sef  gwreic  a  vynnaOd 
gwreic  ieuank  tu  dra6  y  vor  .  A  honno  a  oyd  yn  karu  g6r  ieuank 
arderchaOc  aoed  amheraOdyr  yu  yr  almayn  .  Ac  eiffoes  yny  kyfamfer 
hGnn6  y  kauas  hi  veichogi  o  racdywededic  giOn  y  gOr  pi-ia6d  .  A  fFan 
rydyun  amfer  iiiab  aanet  ael6id  boOn  .  ar  mab  hOnnO  a  rodet  ar  vaeth  av 
vareha6c  kyuoetha6c  aelOit  fabaoth  .  A  gOelet  or  iarlles  y  iarll  yn 
UithraO   i   amdrymder  heneint    y   drymygv   ay   yfcayhiflyaO   o  garyat 

y[r]  ....  amheraOdyr  ienanc* ends:    E[u  g6yk6  a]orugant 

y  nos  honno  [hyt  trannoeth]  ac  nyd  oed  da  gan  gi  [urenhin  eu]  cladu 
Gynt  ymplith  [dynyon]  ereill  .  ef  a  beris  wneu[thur  yfgrin]  o  vein 
marmor  .  apheri  [yvrenhined]  vrdedic  ac  efcyb  dOyn  y  ky[rff  yr  egjlOys 
a  baraflei  ef  ehun  y  wneu[thur]  yn  cn6  feint  laOrens  .  ac  ynay  coronaOyt 
gi  o  goron  m6mbra6nt  .  Ac  y  velly  y  teruyna  yftorya  bo6n. 


MS.  6.  Fragments  of  the  Mabinogion  and  of  the  Komance  of 
Gereint  ap  Erbin,  in  four  parts ;  vellum  ;  xiiith  century. 

Parts  i.  and  ii.  —  Hen.  540a.  Fragments  of  Branwen  (2  pages)  and 
of  Mamawydan  (2  pages');  61  x  5  inches  ;  circa  1225.  "  The  text  is 
practically  the  same  as  that  of  MS.  4  above,  but  purer.  The  fact  that 
these  two  fragments  are  the  earliest  known  remnants  of  the  Mabinogioit 
invests  them  with  considerable  interest. 

i.  Branwen.     \\  namyn    afo    pen    bid    bont:    mi     afydaf  bont    hep 

ef ends  :     A  dyfod  ar  h6nn6  .  a  gofyn  beth  yilyt  ema  blawd 

eneid  hep  y  gOydel.     Sef  a  ||  "j" 

ii.  JSfanawydan.     \\  ithyr  y  llyf.     Sef  a  wnaeth  rei  o  eu  k6n  kerded 

oeu  blaen  a  myned  y  perth  uechan  oet  gar  eu  ]la6 ends  : 

porth  y  gaer  awelef  en  agored  ni  bu  argel  arnei  ac  emeOn  y  deutli  ac  y 
gyd  ac  y  doeth  argan  ||  { 

Part  iii.  =  Hen.  5d06.  A  fragment  of  the  Romance  of  Gereint 
(2  folios)  ;  5f  X  4|  inches;  circa  1285.  The  text  agrees,  on  the  whole, 
with  that  of  Part  iv.  below. 

II  Gwelaf  heb  yr  ynteu.     Ac  yr  a  ofteker  o  honad  ti  ny  thewj'  dy 

byth ends  :     Mynn  llaO  arthur  uu  heb  ef  iii  a  uynnaf  yawn 

y  gennyd  neu  *  *  #  *  ac  am  y  March  .  a  dogynder  o  arueu  y  am 
hvny  ...  A  thranoeth  y  bore  f  gOahanyflant  ac  yna  yd  aetti  Ger'.  parth 
ae  gyuoeth  ehun  .  ac  ny  bu  gyunyt  ar  Er'  .  o  hynny  aUan.§ 

Part  iv.  =  Hen.  59  (numbered  also  "  20").  The  second  and  third 
gatherings  of  the  Romance  of  Gereint  (pp.  17-48)  ;  7|  x  5|  inches  j 
in  the  same  hand  (circa  1275)  as  the  Book  of  Taliessin  (MS.  2  above), 
Harl.  MS.  4353,  &c.      The  text  was  printed  in  the  Revue  Celiique  for 

1887,  Vi-  J-29' 

ll  y  vor6yn  .  ywenh'  heb  ynteu  ae  llaOuorynyon  .  kc  ynteu  ae  Gorcliy- 
niynn6vs  .  Eu  "chwedyl  Oy  hyt  yna  .  Trannoeth  ydoeth  Ger'  pnrth  ar 
Ilys  .  A  difcOylyat  aoed  ar  y  gaer  gan  wenh'  rac  y  dyuot  yn  diiybud  . 

Ar  difo-Oylat ends:  A  thrannceth  y  gOanhanyflhnt  ac  ydoeth 

Ger'  parth  ae  gyfoeth  ehun  .  Ac  ny  bu  gynnyd  ar  Ereint  o  hynny 
allau .  1[  


*  The  opening  column  and  a  half  is  repeated  almost  verbally, 
t  See  Bed  Booh  of  Hergest,  vol.  i,  p.  36,  1.  25,  to  p.  38, 1.  10. 
t  Ibid.  p.  49,  1.  20,  to  p.  51,  1.  9. 

S  Ibid.  p.  280, 1.  21,  to  p.  282,  I.  18  ;  and  p.  294, 1.  7,  to  295, 
ir  Ibid.  p.  2G1.  1.  19,  to  295, 


KOMANOES  AND   HISTORIES.  317 

MS.  7  =  Hen.  3.  The  EoMA^-CKs  of  Peredur,  anrl  Chaki.e- 
MAGNB,  and  the  "Histories"  of  Adam,  the  Crucifixion,  Pilatus, 
and  Judas  IscAEioT.  Vellum;  10|  x  7|  inches;  67  folios,  of  which 
fols.  4-65  are  written  bicolumnav  and  numbered  1-244  respectively. 
Cols.  5-48  !ire  in  a  hand  earlier  than  tbe  rest  of  the  J\IS.,  which  belongs 
to  tlie  xivth  century. 

This  MS.  once  bore  the  number  "  69."  William  up  Madoo  vyclian  ;  "  pan  vv 
varw  Rys  ap  Madoc  o  .  K  ,  M  a  occc  a  tair  ar  dcg  ar  vgaiu  "  (col.  241). 

Col.  5  Peredur:  *  ||reit  ym  wrthaw  dof  ditliev  yr  bwrd,  yn  llawen 
agroelTaw  dyw  wrthyt  .  Ac  jna.  y  kymyrth  ^ereitir  banner  y  bvvyt 
ar  llynn  ar  lianner  arall  aedewis  yrvorwyn  a  ffan  darvv  idaw  vwytta  ef 

adoeth  ynydoed  y  vorwyn  ao  agymyrth  yuotrwy  iar  illaw Sef 

ydwaut  arthur  yna  kyrcher  ymi  vy  march  am  arveu  a  mi  auf  y  vwrw 
ymacc^vyf  raccwf  #*#*#**    cols.    33-36  ****#*J    y  tan 

y  eiite  .  Abwta  ac  yuet  .  aorugant  ac  ymdidan ends  : 

Verediir  dec  eb  hi  coffia  di  ygret  aroeift  ymi  pan  rodeil"  ynnev  ithe  isic] 
ymaen  aberis  ytt  Had  yravang  .  Arglwydef  eb  ynte  omtebic  i  gwir 
adywedy  aminhe  aycoffaaf  Ac  yna  y  buef  ygyda  ar  amerodres  pedcir 
blyned  ardec  ac  y  velly  yto'vyna  kynnyd  paredur  ap  Efrawc.J 

Jn  omine  triko  hoc  oppus  incipio. 
Col.  49  Charlemagne's  expedition  to  Jerusalem  and  Constantinople  : 
MaI  ydoed  cyerlmaen  duw  fulgwynn  yn  feint  ynys  yn  gwil'gaw  coron 
vrenhiniavvl  am  yben  Ac  yn  arwein  cledyf  aryftlys  ar  wiirthaf  ywilgoed 
mawrhydic  odidawc  Ar  berflbn  A'renhiniawl  ar  anfawd  vrenhinieid  yn 
boffi  ac  yn  anrydedu  y  kyweirdep  yn  vwy  nor  kjweirdep  ar  anfawd 
yberffon  .  Ac  yrahoffi  aoruc  wrth  y  v/enhinef  Agovyn  idi  ynherwyd 
ytybygei  ef  y  kretei  5'i'ybucbet  hi  idaw  ef  kyn  no  hyiiy  A  welfei  hi  neu 
aglyffei  eiryoet  bot  neb  ryw  vrenhin  or  byt  awedei  idaw  ygledyf  ay 
wife  ay  goron  3  u  gyftal  ac  idaw  ef  Hitheu  adyvot  wedy  edrych  yn 
difgyvrith  aruaw  Naweleifebhi ##**    cols.  61-68  § 

*  *  #  * ends :  Sef  val  y  raiiawd  .  Y  goron  drein  ar  gethyr 

yfeint  ynys  Ar  gethyr  ar  kreiryeu  ereill  yeglwyfeu  freinc  oil  .  Ac 
yna  yrodef  y  gerennyd  yr  yrenhinef  Ac  yniadeuawd  idi  ygodyant  ay 
gywilyd  yn  garedic  vvyd.^ 

Col.  76  Hyt  hynn  ytraetha  ystoria  a  beris  ranallt  viiENi-iiN 
YR  yn'yssed  o  rujians  YN  LLADiN.  Nyt  amgen  noy  ymrylTon  ef  ar 
Y?-euhinef  Ac  val  ydaetli  cj'erlmaen  *  *  *    cols.  77-84§  *  *  #  *     ... 

*  *  cols.  93-6  *#...**  cols.  113-6  **...**  cols.  125-8  *  * 
...*■*  cols.  137-40  **...*#  cols.  177-80  *  *  .  .  .  ends:  Ac 
ymponyehydic  o  amfferwedy  hynny  yvv  anger  twrpin  archefgob  merthyr 
crift  Ac  yno  y  kladwyt  ef  }'nyr  eglwys  gerJiaw  ygaer  ytv  draw  }'roon  Ac 
yno  ybv  dalym  ac  yn  yn  dydyeu  ni  yffymvdwyt  ef  hyt  ytv  hwnt  yroon 
yn  efgobwifc  ayrodi  ymewu  ylg7-in  yn  anrydeitis  ynyr  eglwys  wedy  11 

193  Ystorya  Adaf :  \\  mawr  aaeth  arnaw  odybygv  pan  yw  tan  aoed 
yny  ogylchynv  ay  dat  ay  rybvdyaffei  ef  rac  hyiiy  Ac  ygroeffi  aoruc  yntev 


*  See  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  vol.  1,  p.  195, 1.  18. 

t  Ibid.  pp.  219,  1.  29-221,  1.  25,  are  warting. 

i  Ibid.  p.  221, 1.  26-232, 1.  6.  The  gathering  in  MS.  7  ends  here,  and  the  phrase 
velly  y  tervyna  implies  that  the  story  ends  with  this  passage,  while  other  MSS.  give 
a  second  part. 

§  Columns  flanked  by  asterisks  are  tvauting.  To  fill  the  lacunae  see  MS.  8,  which 
belongs  to  the  same  version.  The  text  of  The  expedition  to  Spain  evidently  followed 
the  Latin  text,  except  in  Chap.  xxi.  It  omits  the  description  of  Charlemagne  and 
the  whole  of  the  Otiuel.  The  text  is  in  close  agreement  in  parts  with  the  Bed  Boo/t 
version.     Sec  MS.  5,  fo.  Ixxxv. 

T  Of.  MS.  5,  folios  ox-cxvii). 


318  PENIABTH   MANUSCBIPT   7. 

yna  a  rodi  arwyd  yteir  vaun    arnaw  Amynet  racdaw  yn  rwyd  yny  \y 

yraparadwyf Pwy  arglwyd  eb  y  Aavi/d  ay  hadeila  hithev  ffelyf 

dy  vab  eb  yntev  Ac  yna  ydyatiawd  d'd  nabydei  vyw  ef  hwy  no  hyiiy 
Ac  yna  ygelwif  dat'yd  att.aw  liynafyeit  affcradiiryeit  ydiiias  adywedvt 
wrthvnt  "gwevendewch  weithion  felyf  vy  mab  .  i  .  kauys  duw  ehvn  ay 
hetholes.  Mario  davyd  hroffmyt.  Ac  wedy  marw  drti'yd  ay  gladv 
yngwydva   brenhined  yvv    lelyf  yn   gvvled3'cliv  ^udea  ac   yn    gorffen 

ydemyl ends :  Ac  yna  ydaeth  yr  ideon  ynjdoed  ypreii  athori 

ydrayan  ac  ohwnnw  gwneithyr  croc  J'gnft  Nyt  anigen  oyd  yhyt  no  feith 
gvvyd  yny  hyt  athii  chvvyd  yny  breich  aoed  ar  drawf  ac  wynt  ay 
dvgant  hyt  yite  aelwir  caluaria  Ac  ar  bono  ykrocgalTant  wy  ^effu  gcift 
an  arglwyd  ni  yr  yechyt  yr  ay  creto  yn  yr  hwnn  ymay  anryded  agogon- 
yant  tragywyd  Ac  velly  ydwot  Mathev  evangel  yftor  diodef  on  arglwyd  ni 

Col.  204  TLyma  y  groclith  duw  ful  y  blodev  :*  A  wdawcb  chwi  eb  yr 
^elTu  wrth  y  di[s]gyblyon  y  byd  ypal'c  wedy  pen  ydevdyd  Ac  yrodir 
niab  dyn  oy  grocgi  Yna  ydymgyunvSaflant  tywyflbgyon  yr  eieirieit 
aliynef  ybobbl  hyt  yn  Sys  dowyflbc  yr  effeiryeit  geiffaf  oed  yhenw  Ac 
yingynor  aorugant  am  daly  'jeiiw  ay  lad  ovrat  Ac  yna  ydywedaflant 
nawedei  hynny  yndyd  gwyl  rac  bot  kynhwrwf  yny  bobyl  Ac  eifl'ioes  val 
ydoed  ^elTu  ymbethania    yuty   fimon  glawr.     Y   doeth  gwreic    athaw 

alteftreit  oireit  gwerthvawr  genthi ends :  A  fan  oed  dyd  duw 

ful  ydoeth  meir  vagdalen  ameir  arall  y  edrych  y  bed  Ac  ar  hyiiy  nychaf 
k3'nwrwf  yny  dayar  diivawr  yveint  Ac  angJiel  onef  adilgynawd  ac  a  ||| 

Cols.  217-20  are  warding.  They  contained  the  end  of  the  Gospel 
account  rf  the  Crucifixion  and  the  beginning  of  '  The  manner  in  ichich 
Elen  found  the  Cross,'  which  is  continued  on  col.  221  thus  :  \\  ydydywcb 
.  i  .  yn  ymlit  delii  awch  vieni  Ac  yn  dywedut  nat  mab  feffu  yduw 
AdarHein  Ryvron  ych  dedyf  awnewch  ac  nyftyeftwch  Ac  ny  dyeiiwch 
adyvot  yp^-offwydi  Ni  eb  wynt  adarliewn  yn  llyvrev  ac  ay  dyallwn. 
Ac  nyt  ^awn  ytti  arglwydes  dywedut  wrthym  ny  veity  Namyn 
govyn  di  ymi  yn  eghir  hynn  aovyiiych  aui  aatebwn  ytt  Ewch  ythev 
etto  eb  hi   Ac  etholwch  yr  atliraon  goreu  awypo  alep  yn  awch  dedyf 

chwi ends :     Ac    wedy    kwplev   o  elen   kwbyl  oe   uegeffev 

yngkaervffelem  oan  yindiryet  yn  ffyd  grift  Y  -peris  ymlit  yr 
ideon  ar  ny  grete  onadvnt  oH  Ac  ev  deol  ogylch  kaervfielem  Ac 
owlat  jfudea  Achymeint  arodet  yr  cwnaczcs  hwhw  orat  duw  gwedy  yvot 
yn  efgob  ac  yffoei  ydievyl  or  He  yvydyn  oy  wed!  ef  Ac  y  kaffei  bob  claf 
yechyt  or  j'gwediei  yr  efgob  gantbaw  Ac  yno  yd  edewis  elen  ef 
vntangneved  duw  achret  gcilt  wedy  rodi  idaw  rodyon  mawr  anrydedus 
Ac;  o  hynny  allan  y  koffawyt  anrydedv  crift  kyvenw  yr  dyd  ykaffat  y  groc 
fivydant  goronogyon  ygyt  ameir  vam  duw  yn  dragyvvydawl.  Cf.  MS.  5, 
fol.  viij. 

231  yftoria  bilatus :  Gynt  ydoed  b?-enhin  tiries  oed  yhenw  Ac  vn 
echof  kynawdawl  amorwyn  aoed  agof  ataw  Ac  ynyr  achos  hwiiw  y 
kaffat  mab  Melinid  oed  tat  y  vorwn  ac  atus  oed  yhenw  Aphila  oed  henw 
yvorwyn  :  ffef  yrodet  yn  henw  ar  y  ma6  o  henw  y  deit  ay  vam  piktMS 
.....  ends  :  ffef  yw  dyaH  vifena  ffofd  vifern  Ac  yno  yd  oed  kythreulit 
yn  waftat  ynkart^refv  Ar  bobyl  aoed  yno  hefytay  byryaffant  odyno  rac 
avlonydwch  kythreulyeit  Ymewn  ryw  leftyr  emelidigedic  hyt  yn  emyleu 
lozan  ac  yno  ybyrywyt  jmewn  pydew  aoed  ymewn  mynyd  gerttaw 
vfEem  yn  kymervn  o  ormod  dievyl  Ac  ymay  yuy  yno  etto  Ac  veSy  y 
bv  damwein  pilatus  ay  oes.  Cf.  MS.  5,  fol.  x. 


*  See  MS.  5,  fol.  vi-  t  ^^It'd.  fol.  viij,  1.  5. 


THE   HJSTORIA   OF   CHARLEMAGNE.  319 

237  yftoria  Judas  yfgarioth  :  Gwr  aoed  gynt  yngkaerulelem  avvben 
oed  y  henw  ereitt  ay  galwei  fimion  o  lin  iudaf  ac  o  lin  ^flacar  herwyd 
ereifl:  Aciborea  oed  hyriy  ywreic  AnolTweith  wedy  bot  kyt  idavv  aywroic 

breudwyt  aweles  y  wreic  uphari  diifioes ends :  Ac  yna 

yd  ymgioges  ehvn  ac  yi'wygawd  yvoly  ynya.eth  yemyfgar  yr  llawr  A.c  yna 
ydavbetwyt  yenev  canyt  oed  deilwng  amlierehi  ygenev  avvalTer  wrtli 
eneu  Jeflu  gcift  Ygallou  hagen  argwdwf  ar  emyfgar  ymedylywyt  ybrat 
yndvnt  yny  vv  godyant  gan  engylyon  eril't  achriftonogyon  y  dayar 
Ac  am  hynny  ybyrywyt  yntev  vffern  tragywyd  Ac  vclly  y  terrvti  &c. 
Cf.  MS.  5,  fol.  x]. 

242  Ytrydydd  ebrill  dydd  dan  breu  Nac  agor  na  gwegil  na  thalken 
haul  ynygwayr  vyharen  gwed[yr]  pyfc  ydaw  ir  pen  &c., 
ending  ou  col.  243 ;  cols.  242-43,  which  belong  to  the  second  half  of  the 
xvth  century,  are  much  stained  and  difficult  to  read. 


MS.  8  =  Hen.  4G3.    Ystoeya  Charlymaen. 

Part  I. ;  Yellum ;  8  X  6  inches ;  86  pages,  but  wanting  pages  1,  2, 
85  and  86.  Page  3  is  much  rubbed  and  stained,  and  it  is  hardly 
legible.  The  writing  of  Parts  i.  and  ii.  is  archaic  in  style,  but  belongs 
apparently  to  the  xivth  century.  Part  i.  contaius  the  text  missing  in 
MS.  7,  and  is  either  a  careless  transcript  of  it,  or  of  the  same  original. 

3  Charlemagne's  Expeditions  to  Jerusalem  and  Constantinople  and 
to  Spain  :  \\  nyf  i  ev  molyant  yn  vynych  ymay  gennyf  .  i  .  yr  awr  hon 
medwl  y  ervyn  ywch  dyvot  gyt  ami  y  dayar  kaeruffelem  yny  lie 
ynprynnwyt  yr  gwaet  an  arglwyd  .  Ac  wedy  govvyom  bed  an  arglwyd 
ymay  ym  medwl  mynet  y  owy  brenhin  korfdinobyl  am  adwawt  yvren- 
hines  .  Ac  wedy  yr  ymadrawd  hwnnw  athervynv  y  parlymant 
yd  ymbaratoef  pawb  oy  wyrda  y  ev  hynt  gynt  ar  brenhin  .  A  chyt  vei 
amyl   ev  halaf   or   eidunt   ehvu    ehelaythder  ybrenhin  ac  ev  gorvc  yn 

amlach  .  Ac  ef  a  rodes  vdunt  y  ilurygev  &c ends  :  Agouyn 

iaorvc  turpin  chwedlev  y  hwnnw  fgwr  or  galis  eb  yntev  hep  penn 
arnaw  a  rodes  mein  agwyd  yr  eglvvylTev  yny  vantawl  amwy  vv  hynny 
noc  aoruc  obechavvt  ac  ny  chaw  flam  ni  dim  or  cneit  .  Ac  yna  divlannv 
ymeith  aorvc  ykythrevl  .  Ac  yna  dyallawd  dvrpin  marw  cyarlymayn  . 
A  yago  eboftol  oed  ygwr  hep  penn  ac  ef  bievoed  yr  eglwyffev  .  Ar  dyd 
y  gwehaneffynt  wyut  o  vien  yd  edewffynt  an  von  o  bob  vn.|j 

Part  II.  A.  fragment  of  the  Romance  of  Charlejiagnb.  Vellum  ; 
7f  X  6  inches ;  34  pages,  wanting  beginning,  middle,  and  end — the 
first,  and  especially  the  last,  page  is  stained  and  much  rubbed. 

1   II  gev  a  ehiedyvev  a  helmev  ac  arvev  ereill  a  vei   reit  yn   arver 

marchogyon  .  Ac  nyt  reit  gohir  y  voli  yrodyon O  dichawn 

bernard  eb  yr  hv  dwyn  yr  avyn  yvewn  y  dinaf  dyget  .  Ac  yna  yd 
erebif  bernard  ycyerlymaen  gwediaw  yn  gadarn  y  erchi  yduw  kwpplav 
yi"  hynn  ny  aftej  ef  ygwpplav  ..  Dof  di  yn  dibryder  eb  y  cyarlymaeu  a 
bit  dy  oglyt  yn  duw  y  gwr  nyt  oef  anwybot  idaw  Ac  ny  ellych  di 
ygwpplav  evo  ay  kwpplaa  .  Ac  yna  yd  aeth  *  *  *  *  Agyvyt 
yny  dwyrein  ac  adigwyd  yny  gorllewin  a  hi  a  ymchwel  val  kynt 
dracheuyn  .  ^n  vu  agwed  ahynny  orlle  y  doeth  mab  duw  yd  aeth  idaw 
draclieuyn  .  Miaheu  aymladaf  athydy  eb  y  kawr  gan  yr  amvot 
hwnn  of  gwir  dy  ffyd  di  val  y  dywedy  vym  bot  i  yn  orohyvygedic  &c. 

(see  MS.  7,  col.  118,  and   MS.  8,  Part   i,  p.  5)  ." ends:  A. 

ffan  yttoed  rolant  yn  mynet  ....  parth  a  glynn  mieri Ac  yna 

ydoeth  cof  vdunt  ev  gwraged  ac  ev  meibyon  ac  ev  pj'effwyluaeujj 
See  MS.  7,  col.  149,  and  MS.  8,  Part  i,  p.  64. 


320  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPTS    9-10. 

]y[S.9=IIeii.  36.  YsTOEYA  Charlymaen.  Vellum;  7:^  X  5^  inches  ; 
66  folios  ;  imperfect ;  vv-ritten  in  1336 ;  half  bound. 

This  MS.  is  imperfect,  ami  the  folios  have  been  misarranged  iu  the 
binding.     They  should,  according   to  the   text,  run  : —  *  *  29-33,  36, 

*  *  27,  1-10,  28,  *  *  23,  24,  13-21,  38,  *  »  55,  56,  *  *  57,  *  *    37, 

*  *  39-50,  58,  *  *  34,  *  *  51,  52,  11,  25,  26,  12,  53,  54,  *  *  35, 
5y-64,  *  *  66  ;  folios  2y  and  05  are  blank.  This  MS.  is  apparently 
the  prototype  of  the  Charlymaen  in  Pen.  MSS.  5  and  10  and  in  the  Red 
Book  of  Hergest. 

This  MS.  bears  also  the  old  uumbe:  "  20,"  and  contains  marginalia  in  trie  hand 
of  Sir  Thos.  ap  "Wiliems. 

Fol.  1  gOediaO  ar  yarglOyd  aoruc  ar  gadarnhau  y  nei  oy  nerth  yhun. 
Aphan  welas  y  caOr  rolond  yndyuot  atta6  y  yfglyuyeit  awnaeth  ae  la6 
deheu  mal  ylleill  ae  dynnu  y  ar  y  varch  yrygtaO  ar  goryf .  Aphan  yttoed 
yny  aruein  parth  ae  gaftell  galO  y  nerthoed  a  oruc  rolond  ac  ymauel  ar 
kaOr  erbyn  yvreimnt  gan  ymdirel  yn  ny6  ac  ymhoylut  y6dyf  yny  wegil  ar 

yuarch  achOympaO  yll  deu  hyt  y  iia6r  y  ar  y  meirch ends : 

Ac  y  may  y  vatOnat  \Och  y  benn  o  wydyr  tec  enrydedus  .  Ac  y  velly 
y  teruyna  yl'toria  charlymaen  oy  -weithredoed  yn  yr  yfpayn  ac  yn  Itawer 
o  deyrnaflbyd  ereill  yn  treulaO  y  vuched  amleraOl  dros  vuched  dragy  wydaOl 
yn  ymlad  yn  (^rbyn  y  paganyeit  agelj'nyon  an  gOir  arglOyd  ni  iellu  grift 
abaratoes  idaO  ynleu  le  yny  nef  dros  y  lauur  yny  byt  .  llymma  deruyn 
o  yftoryaeu  ycharlymayn  brenhiu  ffreiuc  oy  weithredoyd  ef  yn  yr  yfpayn 
yn  erbyn  y  pagannyeit  a  gelynnyon  iellu  grift. 

ILyma   lyuyr  ?  |  a6n.    yr  hOn   ayfcriuena6d 

^euan  yfcolheic  y  gar  ay  uraOtuayth  .  Oyt  yr  arg!6yd  ieffu  grift 
vnic  fab  duO  a  anet  o  veir  wyry  oyd  yny  kyuamffer  h0nn6 
nyt  amgen  M.CCC.  xxxvi°. 


MS.  10=Hen.  46.  ^stokia  Chyablymaen,  &  Poetry.  Vellum; 
7|  X  5i  inches;  74  folios;  late  xvth  and  xvith  century;  half  bound 
in  leather. 

Folios  5-58i  contain  the  Chyarlymaen  story,  but  here  and  there  blanks  were  left 
■n'hich  were  afteniards  written  over  with  poetry,  tome  of  this  later  ^^Titing  is  so 
thickly  stained  with  gall  as  to  be  hardly  legible.  Folios  1  and  1i  contain  fragments 
of  indentures,  and  274,  73,  &c.,  of  poetry.  There  is  a  representation  of  Christ  on 
the  Cross  on  fol.  266. 

The  following  names  occur  ;  Jeuan  ap  rifiard  ap  ^eu:  ap  Ei/s  o  Abergwili  (196)  ; 
Gr:   ap  thos:  ap   ^eu:  ap  U'n  goch,  tfiomas  brjn  Mathias   ap   Owen  (34); 

tydr  thomas  ap  ^euan  gof  o  bwlT  K'  (336.) 

Fol.  5  II  naniyn  o  gytkam  achelhveir  careat .  Ar  neb  a  ganmoleis  .  i .  eb 
hi  heuyt  nas  henweis  y  vot  yn  dewrach  nac  yn  haelach  no  thi  :  uamyn 
bot  yn  vwy  y  fwUt  ae  niueroed  nor  tau  di  :  Ac  yn  ol  yr  ymadrodeon 
hyny  digwydaw  ar  j  glinieu  a  oruc  y  vrenhines  ac  erchi  trugared  yr 

brenin fol.    15   is  icanting ends  fol.    586  .•    ac 

eglwys  adeilaffei  yno  yr  wynuydedic  veir  wyry  .  hone  aadurnyawd  o 
eur  ac  areant  athlyffyeu  oe  newyd  a  dodreuyn  eglwyffawl  .  Ac  erchi 
yfcriuenu  yndi  .  Ac  yfgythru  ar  y  parwydyd  llythyr  ydelw  eureit  hoU 
yftoryaeu  yr  hendedyf  .  Ac  yfgythru  y  neuad  ynteu  aoed  ger  y  Haw  hi 
val  hyrny  Ac  yno  heuyt  y  peris  yfgythru  yemladeu  ef  yn  yr  yfpaen  ar 
feith  geluydyt  ymlith  hyny  o  anryded  gwenwlyd  a  berisey  hyfgytliru. — 

336     Panit  gwaii  truaii  trymuet  pechadur  pechodeu  aniuer    .     .     . 
Arglwyth    naf  kyuarwytli    an    prynawth    ni   or   pren   duw 
gwener  Gruffuth  ap  yrrynat 

346  Marowolaeth  fitllius    Ccfar  ymerodyr  rrvvain  &c. 


THE   HOLY   GEAIL.  321 

35  Ends  :  A  chaffell  kyn  angeu  olew  alien  a 

achymot  am  leu  kyn  ymadaw 
a  neuawl  ovfeth  arau  drugarelh 
aehrilt  or  diw[eth]  yn  dwyii  attaw  Ainen 

Giiiff'ttth  ap  yrrynat 

356       Gwae  gredo  penii  gollet  pengallv h 

O  gamre  avr  i  gymrv  oil  J  jeuan  ap  madoc  vyclian 

58b       liywelyn    tteiliai    diarcliar     ,    A   llauyn   kyn    ny    bo    yawn 

Hauar c 

gwae  gynly  gyraraw  kyfarwar  .  goloet  grud  hyget  hygar  II 

60  E  *     .     .     .     .     Gi'uffuth  cell  or  dytli  chwerw  dv  .     .     .     d 
[iTo]ddet  grift,  yn  nevddwr  Meibion  ac  wirion  y  gui- 

Dauydd  ap  Gwilkws 

61  Y  mab  gore  or  meibion e 

Or  Uiw  yffyth  yr  llv  sant     Dauid  ap  Meredith  ap  Tudur 

62&       Tri  tec  ynarddec  a  dyd  ynnogylch / 

cbweoh  tec  pedwar  ar  ddec  yddyn  Anon 

63  Pen  sonier  in  arver  ni  Am  ddawn  nev  am  ddaioni    ...        g 
D.  [Ilwyd  ap  gr:]  galondit^vor  lie  dyti  gaviat  He  wyt  ]for  „ 

636       Examples  of  Gwawdodyn  byrr  and  Hir  a  thoddaid 

64  Marw  dd:  ylydd  yn  faetli  im  efgyrn h 

Marw  dedryd  nanmor  devdraetli  &c.  Gutto  y  Glynn 

65  Ay  gwir  kwympo  gwr  [grym]us  mal  yt  yn  ymyl  i  vs    .    .         i 
Grnffydil  yw  n  kywydd  an  kaingk 

bu  ir  gwr  bedr  egoriat  Jexi:  Swrdwal 

66  J  Gr:  Deuddwr :  Ys  da  ohydd  chwareytli  chwyrn  k 

Arrych  kat  i  rai  kederyn       Gruff  .   .  Vichan     .... 
Ache  Milwr  deuddtor  ardytb  Ho:  Kilan 

67  Davydd  nit  vyn  gynnyth  neb  |  llwyt  eryr I 

O  chair  rroi  oes  ichwi  rraweh  Gruffnth  Nannav 

68  J  Dd:  ap  Gr:  Vichan  :  Dd:  lywiawdtor  dydd  deuddwr  ...      m 

Henaint  ywcli  ddynion  hynot  Thomas  Morgannwch 

696       Dauydd  rr  .  .   da  vedd  ar  wyr  n 

llwyt  addwyn  vab  lew  deuddwr     .... 
Einfeiliet  Einioes  Elen      Dauydd  ap  Mereduth  ap  Tudur 

716  JLyma  heniie  mcxchet  .  .  .  IFelis  cfiriat  Gy  o  warwic  &c.       o 
ILyma  oet  Mair  vam  duw  &c. 


MS.  11  =  Hen.  49.  Ystoryaeu  Seint  Gkeal.  Vellum  ;  9  x  6 
inches;  283  folios  numbered  1-280;  folios  50,  198,  203,  264  are 
duplicate,  and  folio  176  is  omitted;  the  end  of  the  xivth  century; 
strongly  bound  in  leather  with  clasps.  See  Mostyn  MS.  184. 

Oa  the  fly  leaf,  at  the  heginning,  occur  the  names  of  "  Watkin  John,"  and 
"  Hugoneni  Powell  de  castell  Madock."  Under  the  book  plate  of  "  E.  Wsies. 
VAtlGHAN,  HENGWRT,"  is  the  name  of  "  ^ohn  Watkin  Jeuan  his  book."  At 
the  end  of  the  MS.,  in  an  earlier  hand,  the  name  of  "  William  John  "  occurs  twice. 
The  marginalia  in  the  MS.  are  reminiscent  of  MS.  110  infra. 

There  are  also,  loose  in  the  MS.,  several  letters  from  the  Eev.  Robt.  Williams, 
of  Ehydycroeseu,  and  Thos.  Stephens,  as  well  as  one  from  the  Eev.  John  Jones, 
M.A.,  Tegid,  addressed  to  Lady  Charlotte  Guest,  in  -which  the  foUowing  passage 
occurs : 

"Mr.  [Aneurin]  Owen  is  always  welcome  to  the  [Heugwrt]  Library,  being 
unlike  to  the  generality  of  antiquarians,  an  honest  man.  Col.  Vaugban  would  be 
happy  for  Mr.  Owen  to  point  out  the  MS.  to  you,  and  also  to  permit  me  to  take  a 


322  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    11. 

copy  of  it.  If  it  were  copied,  translated,  and  published,  the  series  of  the  Mabinogion 
would  be  complete,  and  an  additional  Laurel  added  to  the  crown  of  fame  already  won 
by  the  fair  translator  of  the  Mabinogion.  I  would  be  delighted  to  transcribe  the 
Greal  for  you,  and  to  have  no  other  reward  for  my  pains  further  than  the  pleasure  of 
transcribing  it.  Nevern,  Pembrokeshire,  June  4,  1847."  And  yet,  this  offer  not- 
withstanding, Thos.  Stephens,  of  Merthyr,  when  writiug  (Feb.  6,  1860)  to  con- 
gratulate Mr.  Wynne  of  Peniarth  on  the  acquisition  of  the  Hen^wrt  MSS.,  urges 
him  to  print  some  of  the  MSS.,  '=  Especially  The  Geeal  omitted  by  Lady  Charlotte 
Guest,  so  she  informed  me,  because  she  could  not  have  permission  to  have  it 
copied." 

1  MEgys  y.doed  yr  amhera6dyr  arthiir  yny  Hys  aelwit  camalot  nos 
fad6rn  fiilgwynn  .  oet  yr  arglwyd  ieffu  grift  .  pedeir  blyned  ardec 
adeugeint  aphedwarcant .  Ac  ygyt  ac  et'yd  oedynt  ovilwyr  yvort  gronn 
dec  adeugeint  a  ohant  .  A  gwedj  mynet  pa6b  y  eifted  onadimt  aruthra6  ar 
vwyta  .  nachaf  yndyuot  ymyOn  hyt  geyr  bronn  arthur  vnbenn  ieuanc  yn 
aruaOc  ef  ae  varch .  Ac  yn  dywedut  6rth  arthiir  .  Hanpych  gweK  amher- 
aOdyr  arthur  heb  ef  .  Athitheu  unben  poet  da  itt  heb  yr  arthur  .  ArglOyd 

heb   y   mackOy   a,  yttiO   la6nf lot  yma  yn  vn  He ends  : 

AgOedy  bOyta  arth««r  aovyiiaOd  idaO  y  gyfrangk  .  ac  ynteu  ae  datkanaOd 
ida6  ual  y  clywla6ch  orblaen  .  Ac  yna  arthur  aberis  y  yfgriuennydyon 
yfgriuenu  eu  hanturyeu  .  AgOedy  daruot  gOneathur  ac  ylgriuennu 
anturyeu  y  greal  Gg6byl  .  wynt  aanuonet  y  ynyp  auattach  oe  cadO  . 

Ac  uetty  y  teruyna  y  rann  gyntaf  or  greal  .  nyt  amgen  nor  keis. 

Part  1 1. — Bellach  dywedadwy  y6  o  rann  walchmei  .  ac  o  anturyeu 
y  milteyr  ual  y  kyfaruu  ac  6ynt 

110  Er  yftorya  honn  adraetha  y6rth  yracwerthua6r  leftjr  yr  h6nn 
aelwir  ygreal  .  yn  yr  hOnn  yderbynnyeit  g6aet  yn  crea6dyr  ni  ieffu 
grift  yny  dyd  y  rodet  ef  arbrenn  y  groc  yr  prynu  ybobyl  ogeithiwet 
uffern  .  A  ^ofeph  ae  hyfgrifenna6d  dr6y  orchymun  angel  or  nef  .  kanys 
du6  avynnaOd  g6ybot  g6irioned  dr6y  y  yfgrifennyat  ef  am  y  damwein 
hOnnO  .  a  heuyt  dr6y  dyftolyaeth  y  g6yrda  .  Ac  avynna6d  gOybot  o  baOp 
drOy  yr  vn  ryO  Jofeph  .  padel6  ygodefaffant  y  milwyr  gynt  poen  athra- 
uapl  yr  drychafel  cret  grift .  yr  honn  aatnewyda6d  crift  di-Oy  angheu 
achrocedigaeth  .  agOybydet  baOp  nat  y  ioleph  h6ii   yO   iofeph   o   ari- 

mathia ]fofeph  yffyd  yn  traethu  yr  yftorya  honn  o  achaOs 

kenedylaeth  inarchaGc  urda61  da  yr  h6nn  a  vu  g6edy  diodeifyeint  yn 
arglOyd  ni  .  ahOnnO  mil6r  da  vu  .  kanys  gOyry  oed  oegorff .  diweh'  oe 

vedOl  .  ehofyn  agaitua6c  o  gallon ends:  Ac  ueiiy  ygnottaaffant 

gerdet  arhyt  fforeftyd  diffeith  .  ac  ny  bwyteynt  onyt  gOreid  ftyffeuoed 
ac  anfaOd  galet  arnunt  .  Eiffyoes  yr  oed  liynny  yn  rengi  bod  udunt 
6y  .  A  phan  ovynnit  udunt  paham  y  bydynt  uetty  .  Ewch  raedynt  Oynteu 
6rth  y  rei  ae  govynnei  yr  He  ybuam  ninneu  achwi  ae  gOybydwch  .  Ac 
uefty  yd  attebynt  y  baOp  .  Ac  ueliyybu  y  marchogyon  hynny  yny  vuched 
fanteid  honno  yny  vuant  veir6  .  Ac  ny  chafiat  ganthunt  Oy  vyth  hyf- 
pyfr6yd  amgen  .  Ac  weldyna  ychOi  yr  hynn  hyfpyffaf  agiglefi  y  6rth  lys 
brenhin  peleur  .  .Ac  ueHy  y  teruyna  yftoryaeu  feint  greal 

2806.  *A  medyajn  fur  the  Colyke  and  ye  Ston  :  Take  Sange  Wermot  ffenell,  &c. 
b.         (yno  }•  doedym  yn  deudec  O  veird  un  iy  vyw  ar  dec 

Tri  cbeiloc  trwy  uohelwaet  Tri  denvin  gwyw  tri  dafn  gwaet. 

So  ap  David  ap  iJys.) 
281.  Ne  ve  Arthur  onyt  tra  ve  A  tra  ye  Gore  a  ve  Wylhjam  John 

Val  e  myno  deu  e  veydd 
Hew  ap  K envarch  ymor  lledaw 
Oluen  werch  fpedaden  beukawr. 

y  grawis  y  w  hon  y  greal  y  gwyr  1       Anvonwch  a  dygwch  yn  dal 

Ac  nyd  geirei  dim  gwacmal  |       Jeir  y  ffeffant  yr  offifiall. 

*  In  a  later  hand — circa  1500. 


ELUCIDARIUM,   CREDO   ETC.  323 

MS.  12  =  Hen.  202.  Elucidarium,  Apostles'  Creed,  Pater- 
noster, &c.,  Proverbs,  Triads,  Poetry,  &c.  Paper  and  vellum  ; 
binding  measures  9|  X  7  inches ;  162  pages  +  B  vellum  folios  placed 
some  at  the  beginning  and  some  at  the  end  of  the  MS.*;  half  bonnd. 

Pages  1-76,  133-162  are  ou  paper.  'Llyfr  Hugh  Evans  yw  hwn  Auno  IfiSS  ; 
(p.  158)  :  pages  77-116  are  on  vellum  and  belong  to  the  Red  Book  of  Talgarth  in 
the  Shirburu  Castle  Collectiou  :  pages  117-132=  folios  cdi-cdviij.  of  Pen:  M.S.  4. 

1.  EhUClDARWit :  Myn  owno  dcre  maister  in  wey  of  informacjon  y 
beseche  you  that  ye  well  awnsvyere  to  me  to  all  suche  questions  as  y  shall 
aske  you  in  -whiche  questions  y  am  yet  fer  from  the  very  trew  way  of 
under  standing  And  my  furst  question  schall  be  this  Hit  is  said  that 
no  man  can  tell  what  is  god  .....  ends:  D.  How  schall  the 
Jugemeiit  be  doon  31.  The  ^ugemente  schall  be  devydid  in  fowre  ordris 

The  f  yrste  ordre  schall  be II    About  a  third  of  the  last  line  as  well  as  a 

space  for  three  more  lines  is  left  blank  and  the  remainder  of  the  MS.,  (if  ever 
toritten,')  is  missing. 

2.'^  Ei.uciDARiUMJ —  Y  disct/bl  ar  atliro.  D.  Ef  a  ddywedir  na 
■wyr  neb  both  yw  dvw,  ac  ef  awel[ir]  bod  yn  dywyll  addoli  yr  hwn  nis 
gwyddom  (o  ddiwrtho)  ac  wrth  hynv  o  honaw  ef  y  dechrevwn  ni,  ac  yn 
gyntaf  dy waiti  iml  beth  yw  dvw.     A.  mi  a  ddywedaf  yt  herwydd  (cyu 

belled)  val  y  mae  cenad  i  ddyn   i   wybot,  &c [p.  77  beffins]^ 

ennwired  .  ar   daeiir  a  gyfyt  yny  erbyn   yndyd  kandared  yr   arglwyd  . 
amdywedut  o  honunt  Orth  yr  argl6yd  .  kilya  y  OrLhym  .  ny  mynnOn  ni 

wybot  dy  ffyrd  di  .  &c D.  Owi  or  dirua&r  lewenyd.    M.  Bfith 

bettei  ytt  lawer  o  gedymdeithion  .  yn  vn  fTunyt  ac  y  dywetpwyt  uchot . 
ponybydei  ytti  y  geniuer  Uewenyd   [end  of  p.  116;  p.  133  begins]  : 

SZ>.  Owi  or  digrifwch ends  :  y  rai  gwirion  a  ddiangassant 

oddyno  a  vydd  mvr  kadarn  i  grist  drwy  lewenydd  tragwyddawl.   Amen. 

146  The  Apostle's  Creed  ;  .Petrus — credo  in  deum  patrem 
omnipotentem,  &c. 

147  Vcd  lujn  y  dyweit  hv  saint,  o  iveddi  y  pader  :  ^Hv  sant  o  seiut 
victor  ymparis  a  dyweit  o  weddi  y  pader  val  hyn  .  gan  ymddiriet  yn  ddvw 

y  gallwn  ni  weddiaw  val  hynn  .  p.ater  noster,  &c ends  :  gwyun 

ev  byt  J  rai  tangvoneddvs  yn  ev  calonev  .  canys  y  rai  hynnv  rac  wyneb 
a  gerir  yn  teyrnas  nef  rac  bron  crist  arglwydd  lie  mae  llewenydd 
tragwyddawl  iieb  di-ank  heb  orffen  .  Amen. 

153  Val  hyn  y  dyweit  saint  awstiti  o  iveddi  y  pader  .  mawr  a  ym- 
ddiret  yw  yn  ddyn  gaffel  yr  hynn  a  archo  i  ddvw  nyt  amgen  dywedvt 
y  weddi  yr  honn  a  ddyscawdd   yr  arg:   ^essv  grist  yr  ebystyl  .  sef  yw 

honno  pater  noster  &c ends  :  sef  yw  hwnnw   drwc  pechawt  . 

nev  drwc  boenev  dros  y  pechawt  .  Amen. 

155  Cas  dynion  selyf  vab  davydd  ynt  y  rai  hynn  :  Dyn  ni  wypo 
ddim  o  dda  ac  nis  dysgo  .  dyn  a  achwynno  kymeint  ae  dalv  nis 
gallo ends  :  Dyn  am  wneithvr  da  ohonaw  yn  ediveiriawc. 

157  dangos  pa  ddelw  y  dyellir  y  tat  ar  mab  ar  yspryt  glan  yn 
vn  ddvw  :  kyt   bo  perffeithyach  dvw  no    chreadvr   or  byt   a  hynnv  o 

*  These  8  folios  contain  a  fragment  of  the  prayers  said  after  mass,  the  order 
for  the  visitation  of  the  sick,  &c.,  and  part  of  the  Litany.  The  prayers  are  nearly 
the  same  as  in  the  Sarum  Manual.  See  the  York  Manual  (Surtees  .Soc,  vol.  63, 
pp.  44-5,  52-4). 

t  Compare  Anecdota  0.roniensia — Lltvyr  Agkyb  Llandewivhevi,  edited  by 
Professors  Morris  Jones  and  Rhys  (Oxford  1894),  pp.  3-36, 1.  10. 

X  Ibid.  36, 1. 10-6S,  1.  17.  §  Ibid.  68,  1.  17-76, 1.  2S. 

T  Ibid.  p.  147-151. 


324  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPT    12. 

flyrddhebrif  arnvnt  .  eissioes  ni  allwn  ni  na  dyall ends:  haws 

yvv  welet  a  cluedv  pa  wedd  y  inae  y  tad  av  mab  ai'  ysprvt  glan  yn  dair 
person  dosparthvs  nc  yu  vn  dvw  .  finis* 

159  II   pwy   sydd   yny  blaen  /  ac  am   hynny  y  mae  kwmpas  yu  ddi 
gynvigen  /  paham  y  mner   poers   or   tii  asay  ir  eglwys  /  er  mwyn  mae 

tii   yr  iddewon  y\v ends  ;  paham  y  symydir  y  llyffyr  yr  tii 

asay  yr  fdlor  tra  vair  yn  darllain  yr  yfengill  ac  yn  kesegry  korf  krist  / 
aches  y  addaf  dori  gorchraynay  diiw  a  myned  y  yfrerne  yr  tii  asay  or 
byd. 


A  Fragment  of  ILyvyb  Gwyn  EHYDEEce.f 

117  Triads.  [Teir  gwith  balvawt  ynys]  ||  prydein  .  vn  o  nadunt 
a  dre\yis  raatholOch  Gydel  ar  vran6en  verch  lyr. 

b.  Teir  neges  a  gaat  o  bowys  vn  o  nadunt  yO  kyrchu  myngan  &c. 

c.  Emveu  ynys  brydein  y6  hpm.  Kyntaf  hen6  a  vu  ar  yr  ynys  lion  . 
kyn  noe  chael  noe  chyuanhedu  glas  merdin  &c. 

d.  Anrec  vryen  y6  lion  yma  weithon. 

Gogy  gogS'uercheis  gogyuarcbaf  gogyuerchjd         .  .   . 
Ny  dalyOyf  yn  hen  ymdygyn  anghen 

ony  mol6yf  .  i  .  vrien  :  Amen. 

118  Trioed  y6  hynn.     Teir   prif   riein   arthur  .  G6enh6yuar  verch 

g6ryt   g6ent ends:     (44)     Tri    goruchel    garcharaOr    ynys 

brydein  :  llyr  lledyeith  a  uu  gan  eurofwyd  yg  karehar  ....  Ac  y 
let'  oed  y  gOas  h6uu6  Goreu  vab  knftenin  y  geuynder6. 

121    Trioed  meirch   y6  hyn.  (45)   Tri  rodedicuarch   ynys   brydein  . 

iieinlas   march    Ifal'wallaOn    ap   beli   &c ends:    (56)    Tri 

budyr  hafren  .  kat\ValIa6n  pan  aeth  y  weith  digoll  .  a  Uu  kymry 
ganthaO Calam  varch  idon  ap  ner  y  gan  vaelgOn. 

123  Boned  y  feint:  Dewi  ap  fapt.  ap  keredic  ap  kuneda  wiedic  . 
A  non  verch  gynyr  o  gaer  gaOc  ymynyO  y6  y  vam  .  Doguael  ap  ]fth' 

ap  keredic  ap  kuneda  wiedic  .  Caranawc  ap  korun  &c ends : 

Pebhcl'ant  ap  maxen  wiedic  .  Ac  elen  verch  eudaf  ap  karadaOc  y  vam  . 
Peris  liint  kardinal  oruuein. 

124  0  lyrth-duO  kalan  ar  duO  ful  :  da  vyd  y  gaeaf  .  A  g6nii6yn 
gOynnaOc  .  A  haf  lych  A  gOin  llanneu  yn  fynnu  .  Ar  deueit  yn 
llOydaO  .  Ac   amylder  o   vel   .  Ar   gOrachiot  yn  iiierGi  .   A  thangneued 

a  vyd ends  :  Os   duO   iadOin  vyd   y  prif  dil'lychu  a   wna  y 

gOyd  yn  ywl6ydyn  houno  .  A  gaeaf  tomlyt  .  A  gOmnOyn  g6ynna0c  .  y 
g6in  lianneu  alauuryant  yn  vaOr  .  Ti  adylyy  kadO  yr  hyn  mOyaf  a  ellych 
yn  wlOydyn  lionno  or  ffrOytheu  erbyn  y  wl6ydyn  eihveith  .  canys  drut 
vyd  honno. 

125  Dy   gyghor   ath   guful    y6    amouyn    adoeth  .  TeOi  6rth    ynuyt 
ymganlyn  a  detwyd  .  yraoglyt  rac  dirieit .  Ymanheed  a  hael  .  Ymoleithio 
agleO  .  Ymdihauarchn  adrut  .  kany  dida6r  drut  pawnel. 

b.  Trioed  .  Teir  vnbengerd  yO  prydu  achanu  lelyn  .  a  chywarOydyt . 
Tri  pheth  a  gynneil  hir  direidi  ar  dyn  .  drycyoni  .  a  dryc  annyan  . 
aglythineb  ....  ends  :  Tri  melys  byt  .  meth  a  fynnu  .  a  phechu  .... 
Tri  chadarn  byt :  arglOyd  a  drut  .  a  didim, 

*  Compare  Anecdota  Oxoniensia — Llyvyb  Agkyr,  &c.,  pp.  162-3. 

t  This  fragment  is  bound  in  the  middle  of  the  Elucidarium.  The  folios  are 
numbered  oclj-cclviij,  and  form  part  of  MS.  4  supra.  Sec  MS.  1 1 1 ,  pp.  n  7-69  infra, 
for  contents  of  other  folios  now  missing. 


A  FRAGMENT  OF  THE  W.  B.  OF  RODERICK.        325 

12G  Dihaerebifon  y6  hyn  .  A  vo  da  gan  duO  ys  dir  .  AdaO  maea  ada6 

mab  .  Ad6c  yr  liyd  yr  maes  maOr ends  :  Vn  kam  diogi  awna 

deu  ne  dri  .  vn  arfet  auac  y  sant  .  Vcher  daw  gan  dryckin. 

129  Seinl  awftiii  adijwaOt  hyn  yn  wir  .  Megys  y  dy6eit  feint  awftin  : 
teOder  ydaear  yO  .  vn  vil  ar  dec  o  villtiroed  &c. 

b.  TLyma  a  dyuaOt  eneit  .  Ef  a  uu  veu  .  y  mae  yn  veu  .  mi  ae  kolleis  . 
ydys  ym  poeni  &c. 

c.  2Lyma  englynyon  dydbraOt  bellach  a 

Gwyn  gwarandaw  di  yfynwyr 

a  draetha  y  Uyfreu  mor  116yr     .... 

ai-  y  mor  y  bo  m[a]rw  gwyn. 

130  1/  degeir :   Bendigedic  enw  vn  yO  ov  degeir 

hael  vab  meir  mawr  eidun     .... 
gwlatlwyd  ae  hargl6yd  ehun. 

131  Gwafg&rdyerd  verdin :    Gwr  a  leueir  yny  bed 

ady  gOS't  kyn  feithmlyned  /  march  marw  eurdein   gogled  .   .   . 
am  dywawt  wylyon  /  mynyd  yn  aber  karaf. 

132  Englynyon  gereint  vab  erbin  . 

Panel  anet  gereint  oed  agoret  pyrtli  nef     ....  d 

argl6yd  molaf  ineu  || 

The  text  of  the  above  f  r.agment   of  the  White  Book  was  editerl   by  Mr.  Egerton 
Phillimore  in  Y  CyM.irnonoit  for  1884,  page^i  123-54. 


MS.  13  =  Hen.  230.  Cyssegelan  Vuched,  etc.  Paper  ;  9  x  7 
inches  ;  second  half  of  the  xvith  ceutui-y;  54  pages;  sewn  in  a  vellum 
leaf  of  an  old  missal. 

1  Yn  arglwydd  ni  fessv  grist  a  ddyfod  wrth  i  ddysgybliou  yn  yr 
Evangel :  Nac  ymddarchafwcli  yn  vchel  canys  a  ymddyrchafo  ef  a 
ostyngir     Ar  apostol  a  ddywaid  byddwch  vfydd  fel  i  bv  Jessii  grist      a 

saint  Awstiii  a  ddywaid  cosp  cristynogawl  yw  vfydddod ends  : 

Ac  vn  peth  sydd  raid  i  gadw  yn  wastad  nid  amgen  coffaii  diiw  .  .  .  .  Ef 
a  gyfyd  ar  ddiiw  dad  yn  hai'glwydd  ni  ^essii  grist  i  fab./ 

12  ILyma  y  drydedd  ran  o'r  llyfr  a  elwir  cyssegrlan  f uchedd  &c.  &c. 
as  in  MS.  15  below,  but  ending  at  the  icords  :  Ac  oddyna  diolwch  ir 
drindawd  gan  ddyvredyd  y  geirieu  fry  nyt  amgen  /  Molyant  gogoniant 
&c.  /  Cyiner  hwnw  yn  echrau  y  llyfr.  See  Llyvyr  yr  Agkyr 

Llandewivrevi,  p.  101,  1.  21. 


MS.  14  =  Hen.  MSS.  25  (pp.  1-94)  &  13  (pp.  95-190).  The 
Miracles  of  the  B.  Vihgin,  and  of  St.  Edmund  ;  Sibli's  Dream  ;  the 
Gospel  of  the  Pseudo  Matthew  (two  versions)  ;  the  Crucifixion  ;  the 
Finding  of  the  Cross  ;  the  Life  of  St.  Margaret  ;  Merdin's 
Prophecy  ;  Paul's  Dream  ;  the  Histoeia  of  Judas,  of  Adam,  and 
of  Peredur.  Vclhmi  ;  Gf  X  5^  inches  (pp.  1-94)  and  G^  X  5|  inches 
(pp.  95-190);  190  pages  in  various  hands;  a  (pp.  1-42),  b  (43-44), 
c  (45-78),  d  (79-90),  belong  to  the  middle  of  the  xiiith  century, 
and  e  (pp.  101-190)  to  the  second  quarter  of  the  xivth,  pages  1,  45,  and 
101  are  rubbed,  and  more  or  less  faint  and  illegible — pp.  91-100  are 
blank  ;  bound  in  white  vellum. 

There  are  a  few  marginalia  in  the  hand  of  Sir  Thos.  Wiliems  and  others  ;  "  per  me 
D(avid?)  Thomas  ap  Jeuan  ap  gruff,  ap  edynyvet"  (j).  32);  "Hughe  Soulley  & 
David  Hughes  "  (p.  35). 


326  -  PENIARTH- MANDSCRIKT   14. 

EmAN  E  DECHHEVANT   GWYRTHYEU  E   WrNYYDBDIC    VEIR. 

1  e  lientaf  onadunt  or  mah  idew  :    *Bn  dinas en  dj'd 

kevodedigaeth  er  argluyd  yd  oed  holl  pobyl  criftyonogyon  en  crawenus 
o  anvynagedic  lewenyd  .  Ac  val  henno  paub  er  caryat  crift  en  brylTyav 
e  tu  ar  egluyl'  .  Sef  yd  oed  mab  idew  en  c  dywededie  diuaf  hvnv  en 

dylcu    Uether ends :     Ac    odena   e  bedydyut   e    vam   ar 

mab  ar  tylwyth  .  a  holl  ideon  e  dinaf  haeach  a  emohuelalTant  ar  er 
argluyd  ar  volyant  crilt  .  Ac  urth  henne  g\-edivn  ninhen  e  waredocaf 
argluydef  val  e  rydhawf  hi  e  dywededie  vab  hviiv  o  enyiiva  e  fwrn  :  hyt 
ban  vo  hitheu  a  deilyngo  an  rydhav  ninheu  o  flaineu  ufiern  .  trwy  e  hun 
mab  hi  an  argluyd  ui.  Also  MS.  b,fol.  'xl6. 

2  *Theopbilus  gwrocd  en  He  argluyd  ar  gyuoeth  gurda  efcop  dinas 
o  cilicia  er  eil  vrenhinyaet  o  wlat  perf  gur  |  da  e  diweirdap  .  ehelaeth 
nrth  anghanogyon  .  a  gwydw  ac  emdiveit  caredic  can  baup  .  ar  dyd  trae 
gilyd.e  leindit  ae  grynodep  en  tyvu  en  egluyf  duw  ,.'....  ends: 
A  guede  llofki  e  cirografF  a  chemryt  o  ViccAominus  corfp  er  argluyd  yd 

echtywynygwl"  e   wynep   megyf  er  heul a    guedy   archvaedu 

ychydic  kleuycliu  a  gvanhav  a  oruc a  guedy  peii  elinyav  rodi 

e  el'pryt  ac  or  gyffel'  bono  ncidyav  ar  grift  .  Ac  enc  lie  hvnv  gan 
uwyaf  anryded  o  cladwyt  ar  volyant  a  gogonyar.t  er  hollgevoethauc 
duw.  Also  MS.  5',fol.  xlb. ' 

6  *En  e  lie  a  elwir  tumba  e  mae  eglvyf  wede  ry  adeilat  en  anryded 
mihagel  archangel  .  e  lie  hvnnv  e  fyd  rwymedic  o  bop  parth  idaO  or 

eigyaun ends :    Ac  ene  divved    e    wreic  a  gerdwf  parth    ac 

eglvyf  e  gvynvydedic  vihangel  archangel  y  gyt  ar  bobyl  .  A  phan 
vynegit  er  anreuyJodeu  henno  e  vrcdyr  e  He  hvnnv  e  canpwyt  e  clych 
wrth  henne  canorthwya  ditheu  ynny  .  e  velyf  wyry  veir.  Also 

MS.5,fol.x\ib. 

7  Pan  doeth  Julian  apoftat  amperauder  en  erben  perf  a  cefar  liyt  yg 
capadocia  ac  ene  erbyn  enteu  e  doeth  efcop  e  gaer  honno  .  Seint  bafil. 
Canyf  wynt    ry  vueflynt  gynt  en  eu  hyeuenctit  en  gyt  yfcolheigyon. 

gyt  a  libaniuf  alhro ends :  Ac  val  e  ret  e  gvaet  or  well 

loneit  6  law  a  gemyrth  Julian  apoftat  oe  briaut  rreu  ae  uwrw  eu  er  awyr 
a  dywedut  val  Lyn  .  Neu  ry  orvuoft  e  gur  o  nazareth  neu  ry  orvuoft. 
Am  vuched  auteilwnge  tervynwt  hvnnv  o  angheu  teilung.  Also 

MS.5,fol.xUb. 

9  Ef  a  dywedit  kyrchu  e  mor  o  rollo  e  tywyffauc  keiitaf  or  nord- 
mannyeit  ac  ychydic  o  uiuer  y  gyt  ac  ef  or  goUewin  e  vynnv  gorefgyn 
e  tir  a  elwit  wedy  henne  nordmandi  .  A  guedy  e  dyuot  er  tir  gwneithur 
or   freinc    aneirif    aerva  a  dyuot  a  llu   mavr  ganthav   yg  kylch  dinaf 

carnotum    ene    lie    yd    oed    en    archefcop    walchelin ends  : 

Ac  o  henne  e  rodir  daall  [sici  na  dele  nep  or  deneon  cludaw  brawt 
dynyaul  ene  bo  duw  ehun  en  dangof  e  vrawt.      Also  in  MS.  5,fol.  xlii. 

10  Ef  a  damweinnyvf  gynt  bot  abat  manachloc  climei  val  e  darlleir 
ene  vuched  ef  ae  venet  gyt  ae  vrcdyr  allan  or  vanachloc  ac  nyt  heb 
achauf  .  a  nachaf  lleiJer  en  kyvaruot  ac  ef  ac  ene  lie  en  digvvydav  e 

draet   er   abat   a  dechreu    y    dyghedu    en    enw   duw ends : 

Ac  em  plith  heuue  yd  erchif  er  abat  tynnv  raff  ar  hyt  e  gnaut  enteu 
ac  wynteu  ae  tynnaffant  en  diarbet  or  kic  ar  croen  ene  oed  e  gvaet 
ar  budred  o  vewn  en  llithrav  allan  .  en  angreifit  e  uot  en  v.ir 
benydywr yr   vn   awr  honno  yd  aeth  y  eneit  oc  gorff  .  ac 

*  See  Libellus  de  miracuUs  B.  M.  Virginis,  BodleyMSS.  Laud  Misc.  410  (folioa 
78-93)  and  359. 


THE  MIRACLES:  OF  THE   BLESSED   VIKGIN.  327 

e  kerdwf  ar  llewenyrl  teyrnaf  nef  ene  canhebryugei  vatn  e  clrugared 
ef.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xli]. 

11  Didryuwr   oed   da   ac   eglur   e   vuched   .  A    phob    plwydeu    yg 
kyvenw  not'  ganedigaeth  meir  vam  duo  y  klywei   kywydolyaeth   nev- 

aul ends :  A  bono  a  elwir  gwyl  veir  diwethfif  ene  kyiihaeaf. 

Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlijfi. 

12  Conltanl" .  i  .  cuftennin  .  vab  eonftanf  .  amperaudcr  val  yd  oed 
vaurydic  em  pob  petb  arall  eilTyoel"  pennaf  a  phrudaf  oed  ef  eg  kylch 

diwyll  duw ef  a  beris  adeilat  eglvyf  ....  lateran ends  . 

Ac  ena  o  goffodel"  horyeu  e  wynvydedic  wyry  .  ae  boll  walYanaeth. 
er  bvn  a  dechreuii'  .  Anbycli  well  gyffygredic  ran  .  ac  a  berthyn  o 
henne  ar  e  molyant.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlij6. 

13  Ysgolheic  ced  gynt  dibewyduf  yr  gyflygredic  veir  ac  o  annoc 
diauwl  e  dwyllav  o  veddaut  a   digvydav   e   mevn   dwuyr   ac   ene   lie 

e   vodi ends :  Ac   ene   yd   erchit   er  bobyl   gan   arwylyant 

anrydcduf  e  gladu  e  mynwent  e  feint  .  Ac  e  velly  e  gwnaethpwyt. 
Also  3/S.6,fol.  xli]  6. 

14  Meir  egiptiaca  a  breilwyllyuf  en  tei  e  tbat  deu  deng  blyned  .  Ac 
odena  wedy  e  chymell   o   auiweirdep  e  kerdws  hyt  en  alexandria  .  Ene 

wal  bonno  yd  emrodes  e  chorfFe  buteindra ends:  E  tat  zolmiaf 

clad  corfyn  e  druan  veir A  pliau   ytoed  en  eniovalu   pa  I'lirw  e 

cladei  yd  anvonef  duw  Hew  idav  a  hvnnv  ae  cladwf  urth  e  orchemen 
enteu  .  Ac  e  velly  e  bu  diwed  e  fautef  honno.     Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xxviii. 

15  Manacbef  a  oed  caf  gan  y  cliuioryd  a  oed  daryltyngedic  idl  abadef 
oed  bevyt  .  ac  ny  rwyd  idi  hitbeu  benne  .  canyf  wedy  e  thwyllav  o 

annoc  e  diaiiwl  a  gvander  y  chnavt  e  beichyogef ends :  Ac 

eno  e  caufant  e  mab  ....  A  guede  y  veithrin edoetb  y  lyf 

er  efcop  yv  dyfcu  en  graff  .  A  phan  vu  varw  er  elcop  e  dyrcbauwyt 
enteu  en  anrydeduf  ar  efcobavl  gadeir  ene  He  e  due  e  vuched  lanhaf  byt 
e  diwed.  Also  MS.  ?>,fol.  iMV]. 

17  *Archefcop  oed  en  twlet  gur  prud  credyviif  hildefonf  y  enw  Ac 
em  plith  petli  oe  weithredoed  da  e  carei  ac  yd  anrydedei  en  vavr  meir 
vam  duw  .  ac  ene  molyant  e  gvnaetb  llyvyr  tec  oe  gveryndaut  bi  .  .  .  . 
ends :  Megyf  yd  wyf  den  i  .  den  vu  e  gur  a  vu  kyri  no  mi  en  arebefcop  . 
vrtb  benne  pa  bam  na  wifgwn  inheu  amdanaf  er  hyn  a  wif  kei  enteu  . 
A  cban  benne  gvifcav  amdanav  e  wife  neuavl  Ac  en  yd  a  amdanav 
emwafgu  ene  gylch  en  drachyving  ae  varw  .  en  diaiiot  .  Ac  o  bene  allan 
e  ketwit  e  vfifc  honno  en  tryfor  er  egluyf.  Also  3IS.  5,  fol.  xlii]b. 

b.  *Manacb   oed  e  mevn  menaoliloc  en  arver  o  walfanaeth  clochyd  . 

A  got  oed   oe  vryt ends :  Ac  odena  nyt   ar  pecbaut  hvnnv 

ebvn  e  peidywf  naraen  gvaflanaethu  hytyagheu  e  duw  ac  er  wynvydedic 
veir  en  dibewyduf.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xliijfi. 

18  *Yscolbeio   oed    en    dinaf    carnotum    yfgavyn    oe    annwyt     ac 

either  mod  emrodedic   e  damunet  e  gnavt ends :  A   guede 

dyrchavael  e  gorfF  odena  wynt  ae  dugant  er  vynwent  ac  ae  cladalTant  en 
weduf  gan  arwylyanheu.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xliiij. 

19  *Yscolheic    arall    oed    a    oed   yavn    dibewyduf    y   duw   ac    e 

veir ends:     y  eneit  enteu  a  gerdwf  oe  gorff  parth  a  pbar- 

adwyf  .  e  geraryt  llewenyd  tragywyd  val  e  hedewif  e  wynvydedic  wyry 
idav.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xliii]. 

20  ILeider  oed  ae  enw  oed  ebbo A  guedy  e  grogi  nachaf 

en  dyuot  mam   duw   en e   gennal  ae  dwy  law  deudyd  hep 

dibynnv  .  a  hep  diodef  nep  ryw  godyant ends :  A  guede  e 

*  See  footnote,  p.  326. 


328  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    14. 

dianc  mynet  en  uanacli  .  Ac  odena  tra  vu  vyw  e  gvaffanaetbvf  e  duw 
ac  yu  gylTegredicaf  vam  ef.  Also  MS.  o,fol.  xliiij. 

b.  E  Tat  hu  abat  cluui  a  gnotaei  datcanu  o  vravt  oe  vanachloc  aoed 
y  henw  gerakl  .  Ac  ef  etwa  yn  wr  byt  damuaav  o  lionav  mynet  feint 
iac  .  A  phan  doeth  e  dyd  y  mynnei  kemryt  y  hynt  e  gerdet  y  orchyuygu 
o  ewyllyle  gaavt  ac  y  gyt  ao  orderch   kylcu  .  A   phan  ytoed  ychueric 

en  kerdet  ene  hynt ends :  Ac  urth  henna  e  guifguf  enteu  e 

manachloc  clnni  a  thra  vu  viw   e   bu   eno  en  gvalTanaethu   dmv   en 
dihewyduf.  Also  MS.  5,fol.  xliiij. 

21  *EfFeiryat  plwyf  oed  ae  viiched  oed  advwyn  a3  nyt  osd  ganthav 
haeach  o  len  ac  ny  wydyat  canu  effieren  ene  byt  namen  vn  or  argluydef  . 

nyt   amgen  .    Salue   I'ancta.    parens     ends:    Ac  y  velly  e 

peril"  y  wynvydedie  veir  y  angenreidyeu  yv  effeiryat  gan  e  amdilfyn  oe 
godyant  .  A  throf  e  waflanaetli  e  due  y  vuched  tragy wyd.  Also 

in  MS.  o.fol.  xliiiii. 

22  *Ea  Ruveiu  yd  oed  deu  vroder  ar  neiU  y  enw  peJer  a  hvnnv  oed 
archdiagon  ogluyf  badyr  gur  pi-ud  a  chybj^J  eilTyoef  .  Ac  yftypbun  oed 
enw  y  Hall  a  hvnnv  oed  vravdwf  ene  dinas  .  ac  a   due  en  gam  trithei  y 

egluyl"  feint  lavvrenl"  a  gard  e  feint  agnef ends:  A.C  a  dywaut 

heuyt  val  e  bei  uwy  e  ci-etet   yd  a-ji  or  vuched  hoiino  ar  ben  e   deng 
nie  (  arugeint  wedy  atverei  y  dreif.  Alsi  MS.  5,ful.  xliiijA. 

23  *Gur  oed  en  llavuryau  tir  a   chan  eredic   e   kerdei  drof  e   briaul 

tervyneu  ao  ar  y   gyueiryau  achuanegu   tir  ereill ends  :    Ac 

e  velly  e  diengif  ev  eneit  hvnnv  rac  kyuyrgoll  tragywyd.  A/so 

MS.  5,fol.  xlv. 

b.  *En  dinaf  papiaf  y  manachloc  yr  yachwydavl  yd  oed  manach 
prior  e  vynachloc  honno  claear  oe  emadravd  a  chamwedauc  oe  deuodeu 

ends  :  A  guede  vy  adnabot  em  due  genthi  e  le  da.         Also 

MS.  5,fol.  xlv. 

24  *Grvreic  awelei  trvy  e  hun  e  hot  en  arwein  yftondard  wedy  e 
lliwyav  aguaet  .  Mulierdif  oed  y  henu  a  beichyauc  oed  .  .  .  .  ends  : 
A  guedy  bot  eno  enof  honno  e  bu  gen  yachet  a  cheny  diodeuoi  dim 
gouut  eryoct.  Also  MS.  5,fol.  x\v. 

b.  *Pan  gyrchei  amravaellyon  genedloed  o  achauf  cael  yechyt  eglvyf 
e  wynvydedie  wyry  yg  caer  ganhorthuy  o  damwein   e  doeth  nebun  claf 

ar  neill  droet  idav  en  llofki ends  :  Ar  avr  e  defroef  trwy 

drugared  vam  duw  e  cavaf  e  troet  ry  wahanaffei  or  kyffvUt  y  urth  er 
efkeir  rac  dolur  wedy  ly  etvryt  yr  hen  yechyt.     Also  in  MS.  6,fol.  xlv. 

c.  Clochyd  oed  y  nievn  menachloc  en  freinc  a  garei  e  da  ac  a  beidj'ei 
ar  drvc  ......  Ac  eiffyoef  nyt  oef  nep  mor  divlin  y  rym  yg  creuyd 

ac  nat  ymlayffo  neu  nat  ymillyngo  weithyeu ends :  a  minheu 

a  eneif  erbwii  a  wnaeth  pop  peth  a  chan  henne  hi  a  divlanwf  y  emdeith. 
Also  MS.  5,fol.  xlv. 

25  Porthmon  oed  yg  corftinopyl  a  thewdwr  y  enw  f^ur  a  garei 
wiryoned  herwyd  y  allu  .  Ef  a  damweinnyuf  eiffyoef  trwy  lunyeth  duw 

o  lawer  o  oludoed  y  vynet  ar  dlodi  gormod ends  :  Dywedeift 

eu  hep  e  delw  .  canyf  e  gift  a  gemereift  enetraeth  e  maegennyt  yg  kud 
a  dan  dy  fwlld  hep  v/ybot  keuei  yth  wreic  ygchvaethach  y  ereill  .  Beth 

wedv  henne bedydyav  er  idew  ar  anryded  duw  ar  w\'nvyd- 

edic  wyry  veir.  Also  MS.  5,fol.  xlv6. 

27  ^vfticiau  amperauder  a  oed  en  llywyav  kyuoeth  ruvein  eu  gentaf 

en  wyvun  catholic  odena  en  greulaun  heretic ends :  Ac  ena  e 

perff  er  amperauder  y  gyt  ar  padriarch  gvneithur  gwyl  veir  e  can- 

hwylleu   er  bon  ny  wnathoedit  kyfi   no  henne Ac  e  velly  e 

kerdwf  or  gaer  bono  er  holl  vyt.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlv6, 

*  See  footnote,  p.  326. 


THE   MIRACLES   OF  ST.   ilDMUND.  329 

2Tb.  Tkansitus  Mariae  {see  Tisohendorf 's  Apocalypses  Apocrypha, 
pp.  124-136).  Melito  waf  crifteicopeglwyf  lardiney  enanvon  annercli 
en  tagneved  crift :  yu  anrydedulTydn  vrodyr  yg  cril't  e  rei  e  fyd  en 
prelTvyllyav  en  laodicia  .  Pan  adolykovch  cliui  ymi  wneithur  deu 
weithret  o  vucbed  e  profwydi  ac  o  ai-fi;hiydiavl  gnaudolaeth  ae  auvon 
yvvcli  emevu  Uyvyr  o  newyd  acheiilyav  lievyd  diheurwyd  o  varwolaeth 
mam  an  argluyd  ni :  ae  venegi  y  chuitheu  e  mevn  llethyr  .  vrth  lienne  oc 
auch  deffyf  clivi  ni  acvonvn  y  cliny  enolci'ivenedic  e  petheu  aglyuffam 

ninheu  e  gau  yeuan  eboltol ends:  Ac  e  voli  an  argluyd  ni 

yelTu  grift  er  hvvn  a  wledycha  y  gyt  ar  tat  ar  yfpryt  glan  en  drindavt 
teir  perlbn  ac  en  vn  duw  vndavt  en  oef  oeiToed  .  anien.  Also  Jesus 
College  MS.  119,  fol.  69b.     Cf.  Peniarth  MS.  5,  fol.  xxxviij. 

32  ILeider  a  doeth  e  ledrata  y  egluyf  ene  lie  yd  oed  delw  o 
wynvydedicaf  wyry  veir  en  dale  e  mab  hi  yeffu  grift  ene  harfet  .  A.c 
am  beii  e  mab  yd  oed  coron  o  eur  ....  A  phan  welef  e  Ueider  honno 

medylj'av  a  oruc  e  dwj'n ends :  dodi  faeth  a  oruc  ene  uwa  a 

faetliu  e  mab  a  delw  e  vam  .  Ac  eiffyoef  eftynnv  e  law  a  oruc  e  mab 
en  erbyn  e  faeth  a  dale  e  faeth  ene  law  ac  emae  hyt  hediw  ene  dale. 
Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlv6. 


Em  AN    E    DECIIREVANT    GVYRTIIYEV   SeINT    ED3IUND 

Archescop  Keint. 

.33  M.vb  oed  yg  kylcli  e  bedeirbluyd  ardec  thomas  e  henw  o  leing  . 
eaftell  dref  ar  banner  milltir  y  urth  pwntynei  .  A  vuaffei  vlwydyned 
wedy  cruplau  e  draet  a  chyruachu  y  geven  &c.      Also  3IS.  5,  fol.  xWb. 

b.  E;i  vn  dyd  hvnnv  pan  ytoed  e  kwuent  en  mynet  er  egluyf  \' eu 
graf  nachaf  guryaiig  or  belymund  ae  droet  ae  efkeir  en  gyrrvach 
ganthav  ....  ar  fyh  bachauc  ac  en  fnryfhav  collet  eneill  droet  o 
ganhorthwy  dwy  fon  &c. 

34  Ee  vn  dyd  hvnnv  ar  kvuent  ar  ofper  nachaf  guryang  monard  y 
enw  o  agof  y  pwntynei  .  ar  tu  deheu  idav  ....  wedy  ry  gruplaw  &c. 

b.  Gvaring  o  rodvm  a  gyruachuf  e  droet  ae  efkeir  val  na  allwf  teir 
blyned  gan  aohuanec  kerdet  vn  cam  heb  fon  .  ac  am  banner  dyd  e 
dyd  e  cladwyt  edmund  y  cauaf  hvnnv  yechyt  eno  oe  gleuyt. 

c.  E  Braut  yeuan  o  cabllac'  .  a  oed  glaf  gorthrvm  o  gryt  e  pet- 
waredyd  a  henne  en  honneit  ac  en  amluc  &c. 

d.  E  Braut  yeuan  di  Ijriwn  o  emyl  ponteney  dwy  villtir  y  urthi  .  a 
doeth  kleuyt  en  vn  oe  efkeiryeu  &c. 

e.  Gwr  o  leing'  .  martin  y  enw  a  oedet  ene  boeni  o  gryt  j  petwaredyd 
er  gwyl  feint  Iwf  &e. 

35  Mab  o  leing  aimoth  y  enw  yeuanc  o  oet  a  mvl  o  fynnvyr  a  vu 
vagyl  ar  e  lygat  affw  teir  blyned  vegyf  na  channoed  dim  o  honav  namen 
y   emdivadv   ce   hoU   leuver  .  val  y   tyftynt  e   recni    ar   periglavr   or 

kymydogyon ends :    A  gvyrthyeu  anryued  vu    hvfiv    gan   ae 

gvelef. 

b.  E  Seithvetyd  wedy  cladu  e  fant  e  due  myneich  ponti/wei  wedi 
cwmpli  e  gveryt  a  oed  ar  y  ved  en  kudyav  y  yfgrin  ene  daear  ac 
e  dinoethaffant  ychiieric  yr  yfcrin  .  Sef  yd  oed  mynach  o  quincian 
menachloc  o  vrdaf  ciftavf  &c. 

36  E  braut  gilbo  conuersiis  o  pont'  .  henwr  gorthrnm  a  feif  oe 
genedel  .  kyh  .  hanher  e  vlwydyn  wedy  kemryt  abit  &c. 

e    98430.  0 


330  PEMARra  HANUSORlPi   14. 

37  Wedy  bot  en  honneit  gwyrthyeu  e  fant  nachaf  gur  o  ruvoin  en 
dyuot  eno  yeuan  oed  y  henw  en  rwy medic  o  gryt  e  petwaredyd  &c. 

b.  Mab  deudeng  blwyd  o  dre£  ar  dwy  villtir  y  urth  pontyraej  ;  thomaS 
y  enw  a  oedet  dwy  vlyned  eUe  boeni  o  gryt  e  petvaredyd  &c. 

c.  E  fryr  ^ohan  mynach  ac  effeiryat  o  urdaf  ciftawf  a  oed  cjgrydyr- 
wayw  endav  gveithyeu  eny  vreicbyeu  .  gveithyeu  euy  lefneu  gueitbyeu 
ereill  em  pob  lie  endav  &c.  Also  MS.  5,fol.  xlvij. 

d.  Morwj'n  oed  yn  leing'  .  iaqwite  y  henw  a  hir  gleuyt  a  vu  arnei  en 
orthrwm  &c.  Also  MS.  5,fol.  xlvij. 

S8  Tat  e  mab  a  dywetpwyt  uehof  thomaf  pan  ytoed  en  er  vn  dyd 
livnnv  en  dyvot  e  gyrchu  aluflen  o  lyf  e  gurda  &c.     Also  MS.  5,  /o,  xlvij. 

b.  T3  fryr  jjjT  mynach  o  quincian  a  vu  glaf  dwy  vlyned  o  gryt  e 
petwardedyd  .  ac  o  ganhyat  y  henaf  y  rodef  govunet  yr  e  Itmt  ,  ac  en 
diannot  wedy  er  ovunet  e  bu  yach.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlvij. 

c.  Bvrgeif  o  feint  prif  en  emyl  efcopty  avuern  mil  oed  y  henw  a  oedet 
ene  vlinhau  en  ormod  o  gryt  e  petwaredyd  &c.     Also  3IS.  5,  fol.  xlvij. 

d.  Diw  nodolic  e  cavaf  dall  y  olwc  e  gan  e  fant  yg  gwyd  prior  pin 
menachloc  o  peitw  ....  ends :  en  er  amfer  hwnnw  e  menachloc 
cerlyf  en  gvneithur  vifitoryaeth.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlvij. 

39  Diw  gwyl  yeuan  euangelyftwyr  yd  oed  abat  pont'  .  ac  abat  ioyac 
ar  hwn  a  yfcriiienwf  e  gwyrth  hwii  en  menet  ar  legat  freinc  Ar  henne 
e  doeth  e  metyr  gvi  fanfder  brenhin  novar  <fcc.      Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlvi]. 

b.  Em  plith  e  gwyrthyeu  ereill  e  dwywaul  allu  trwy  euyrllit  e  fant 
ef  .  e  teilynguf  llavuryau  yechyt  em  perved  e  daear  yd  eglurwf  gwyrth 
tec  er  hvii  a  volir  ar  gof  trwy  er  efcobot  .  Gur  oed  yeuan  e  henw  o 
wandurre  tref  o  efcobaut  fanf .  &c.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlvij. 

41  Guryang  oed  gerard  y  enw  o  dref  tavlat  o  efcobaut  fanf  achyrvach 
ene  gevyn  a  hep  allv  troffi  y  eftlyf  &c.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  slvijS. 

b.  Mab  o  auetol  tref  o  efgobaut  fanf  o  gyuagof  e  pont'  .  val  ar  dwy 
villtir  pedjT  oed  y  enw  ac  a  oed  arnav  gorthrwm  heint  ny  t  amgen  dirvavr 
chwyd  en  dilkynnv  oe  emyfcar  yv  chuyfligen  &c.  Also  MS.  Zi,fo.  xlviji. 

c.  Mab  yg  kylch  y  bytheng  bluyd  yeuan  e  henw  o  gaftell  leing'  .  aoed 
arnav  heint  gvref  er  hvii  a  alwn  ni  etwymyn  &c.  Also  MS.b,fol.  xlvijft. 

42  En  er  vn  amfer  hvnnv  yd  oed  gur  o  awuern  en  llaunryav  ef  teir 
blyned  o  gryt  e  petwaredyd  &c.  Also  MS.  b,fol.  sXyrib. 

ILeman  y  gwyrthyeu  a  wna  feint  edmund  ac  a  wnaeth  .  e  deillyon  a 
gaffant  eu  golwc  .  e  crupleit  a  gaiFant  en  pedeftric  .  A  llavuryo  or 
heint  dygwyd  ar  bolwft  a  rydheir  .  Gwraged  avo  en  llavuryav 
oc  eu  heint  anyanavl  en  hwy  noc  y  dylyoent  herwyd  annyan  a 
yecheir  ,  O  gryt  e  petwaredyd  llawer  a  rydheir  .  canys  or  krj't 
hvnnwny  thykyamedeginyaeth  corforavl.  Also  MS.  b,fol.  xlvijj. 

Gerard  archejcop  fanf  .  Bened .  efcop  avvern  .  Ac  abbadeu  o 
ciftauf .  o  pontyney  .  o  ioyac  .  o  glynn  lucerite  .  o  quincian  .  o  menach- 
loqoed  o  urdaf  ciftauf  a  yfcrivenaffant  e  gvyrthyeu  Mfh  .  c  haup  or  a 
vei  offodedic  en  archefcobaui  keitit  .  A  thitheu  argluyd  tnigarliaa  di 
wrthytn  ni .  Amen.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  xlviij. 

42  {h.)  Sef  yv  rat  yr  auyrSaden  .  Pan  dyrcheuir  duw  gvir  dyn. 

deu  tri  drindaut  vndaut  vn  .  tat  mab  yfpryt  gloywbryt  glan. 

Yg  gleindit  rydit  rat  gvertheuin  gwyl  y  gvelwn  grift  vrenhia. 

rwyf  nef  davn  adef  dewin  yn  rith  y  gvenith  ar  gvin. 

Ob  gvin  ar  avyrllat  raii  ren  .  y  gvelwn  goleu  gymun. 

duw  ene  lun  e  hunan  .  donyauc  vuched  diwed  dyn. 


HISTORY   OF  THE   CRUCIFIXION   ETC.  331 

Dyn  yu  efferryat  yr  fur^^eid^rav  pobyl  awn  rac  perygyl  atav. 

ar  maurdoeth  medyant  ganthav  .  ar  mab  rat  rung  y  dwylaw. 

Rvng  dwylaw  oed  tec  teiluug  gvaui'  gvelet. 

gwyl  vrenhin  nef  a  llawr. 

mab  lien  uch  eur  lien  allaui'. 

naedyant  mwyn  ogonyant  maur. 

Maur  greduch  dawn  heduch  da  .  pan  weloch  veith  aberthu. 

nat  auyrftaden  hagen  hi  .  duw  nef  yfef  y  fy  eno. 

Sef  yu  rat  yr  auyrlladen.  Also  MS.  5,  fol.  x\]. 

43  Ef  a  dywedit  bot  em  parif  yfcolheic  yfcol  dihewyduf  yg  gwedieu 
yr  argluydef  veir  .  Ac  ual  y  raynychei  er  egluyf  yd  avganvu  morwyn 
yeuanc  ^yuoethauc  deccaf  or  hoU  vyt  .  a  burw  y  gai-yat  ae  ferch  a  oruc 
arnei  hyt  na  hanbwyllei  ef  oe  uyw  .  A  guedy  guelet  o  honau  nat  oed 
kyfryu  vod  nac  e  caffei  ef  emdywedut  a  hibi  nac  y  beidyei  e  cauaf  eny 

ganger   menet  hvt  en  twlet  e  dyfcii  nigromanf Ac   ena  e 

cauaf  ene  gj'ghor  peidyau  ae  boll  darpar  ac  emcbuelut  dracheuen  hep 
dim  or  geluydyt  a  bvrv  y  bryder  ae  oual  ae  obeitb  ar  er  argluydef 

veir ends :  canyf  merch  yarll  oed  hi  ac  en  vn  etiued  idav  . 

Ac  y  gyt  e  preffuS'Uyaffant  hyt  eu  hangeu  .  Ac  oc  eu  lietiued  wynteu 
yd  yf  etwa  en  daly  ei'  yarllaeth  honno.  Also  3IS.  3,  fol.  xlviij. 


What  follows  is  in  a  different  hand,  being  two  fragments  of  some  other  MSS. 

45  Sibilla's  Dream — beginninrj  lost.  This  version  differs  from 
those  in  Pen.  MS.  5,  fol.  xij.,  and  in  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  col.  57la. 
The  first  ivords  of  the  existing  te.vt  are  ||  nyf  wyt  keniryt  ae  na  welfam  ni 

ac  na  chlywfam ends :  Ac  ena  y  triftaa  paub  gan  lef  e  corn  od  | 

uch  ben  en  kwynav  trueni  pechaut  e  byt  acen  Uavuryeu  amrauael  ac  ena 
yd  ymdengyf  uffern  a  burv  y  daear  y  arnav  ac  yggwyd  yr  argluyd  tynnu 
e  brenhined  yu  gwaelavt  ac  am  eu  pen  e  digwyd  or  nef  ena  avon  o  dan 
a  brwmyftan.     Ac  val  henne  y  tervyna  breiidioyt  Sibli. 

58  Hwn  iju  prol  yr  efgyp.  ':T  en  caredicnf  vraut  y  ^eron  effeiryat 
chromaitius  ac  eliodoruf  efgyp  en  anvon  annerch  en  er  argluyd.  Boned 
nieir  teyry  ae  ganedigaelh  gyt  a  henne  a  maholaeth  yeffu  grift  a 
gauffam  ni  en  llyvreu  kyuarwydyt  ene  rei  yd  edrychaffam  ni  llawer  o 
betheu  gurth  wynep  y  an  fyd  ac  a  gynullaffam  ninheu  en  gubel  rac  rodi 

llewenyd  yr  antycrift  o  gyfgaut   crift ends :  Ac  o  dena  yd 

aethant  hyt  y m  bethlem  ac  yd  oed  iofeph  en  y  dy  y  gyt  a  meir  a  yeffu  .  A 
diwyrnaut  y  gelwif  iofeph  e  |  attav  yago  y  mab  hynaf  idau  ae  anvon  yr 
ard  y  gynnull  cawl  y  wneither  breffych  ac  || 

The  text  of  this  yersion  of  the  Go.ipel  of  the  Pseudo-Matthew,  which 
begins  with  the  letter  addressed  to  Jerome  by  Chromatius  and  Heliodorus,  is  defec- 
tive in  many  places.  The  pages  run  58  *  »  59-62  *  *  *  63-64  *  65-66*  67-72  s 
*  73-78  *  and  correspond  with  pages  33-38,  46-49,  58-60,  63-70,  74-82  of 
B.  Harris  Cowper's  edition  of  the  Apocryphal  Gospels  (London,  1874).  For  a 
complete  Welsh  text  see  Pen.  MS.  5,  folios  xiiij-xx  and  compare  pp.  116-36  infra. 

79  A  fragment  of  the  Gospel  of  Mattheic,  Chap,  xxvii,  57-xxviii, 
7,  translated  from  the  Vulgate.  See  MS.  5,  fol.  v].  The  existing  text 
begins  :  ]|  mathia  iofeph  y  enw.  ac  a  oed  dyfgybyl  y  yeflV .  hyt  ar  pilatw* 
y  erchi  corff  yeffu  .  Ac  ena  yd  erchif  pilatus  rodi  e  corff  ydav  A 
guedy  y  gemryt  y  hymachluduf  y  meun  llyeyn  glan  ac  y  goffodef  y 
mevn  y  wynwent  ehvn  .  a  doraffey  or  garrec  ac  a  droffef  e  lech  vavr  ar 

druf  yvynwent ends :     Na  vyt  arnauch  ovyn  my   a  wn   y 

mae  yeffu  a  grogct  a  geiffyuch  .  nyt  ydiv  ema  .  nev  ry  gyuodef  mal  y 
dywaut  .  Douch  ac  edrychuch  y  lie  y  goffodadoed  yr  argluyd  endav  . 
Ac  euch  en  gyflym  a  dywednoh  yu  diigyblon  ef  .  ac  y  beder  ry  gyuody 
ef  allema  y  byd  ef  yn  auch  blaen  chui  yg  galylea  .  Eno  y  gveluch 
chui  euo  mal  y  dy wedeil"  y  y  chwy. 

c  2 


332  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   14. 

81  llynia  val  y  cauas  elen  luyddawc  ach  cuftennin  y  mab  j)renn  y 
groc  y  roiin  y  dioddeiiaivd  yn  harglwijd  ni  Jeffu  grift  y  rom  ni  yr 
yn  prymi  ni  arnaei  hi. 

Ac  em  pen  a  edryded  vlwyden  ar  dec  ar  ugeynt  a  chant  wede  dyodef 
an  argluyd  ny  yeffu  grift  ene  guledychei  er  anrededuf  dywyllvr  duw 
guftenyn  gwr  mavr  ene  leitliuet  vlwyden  oe  deyrnaf  entev  yd  emgyn- 
nvllul"  Kenedel  vavr  angkyuyeith  en  baraut  y  ryuelv  a  gwyr  i-uveyn  hyt 
ar  avon  danubi  .  .  .  a  phan  welefcu  llvoflbgruyd  ofnav  a  oruc  .  .  . 
ar  uof  honno  .  .  .  y  guelei  arwyd  croc  yr  arglwyd  gryft  wedy  ry 
offot  en  dyruavi-  leuver  .  ac  en  yfgryvenedic  ucb  penn  .  En  b6nn  e 
gorvydy  .  A  guode  guelet  o  honav  er  arwyd  y  perif  y  brenbin  gvneilbur 
kyffelyprvyd  ygroc  a  welfei  yn  nef  .  .  .  ar  dyd  h6nn6  y  rodef  duw 
vudugolyaeth  y  guftennyu  vrenhyn  trwy  nertli  e  groc  llan  .  A  guedy 
dyvot  e  breuhin  adref  y  gelwif  boll  efFeiryeit  e  geudwyweu  .  a  gowyn 
vdunt  buy  pa  arwyd  oed  hOnnO  a  pbieuoed  ef .  ac  nyt  oed  o  nadunt  a  allei 
y  attep  ...  A  phan  gyglev  y  bychoded  griftyonogyon  .  .  .  e  doethant 
ar  ebrenbin  .  y  uynegy  ydav  .  .  .  K  guedy  caffael  or  euengylev  cllo 
y  crogeffit  er  ai-gluid  yd  anvonef  helen  y  vara  y  geiflyav  pren  croc  .  .  . 
wedy  henne  e  doetb  clen  a  llu  mavr  genthi  e  dynaf  caerufalem  .  ac  y 
kynnvlluf  lluol'lbgruyd  dyrua6r  o  enwyraf  genedel  er  ydeon  .  .  guede 
eu  duwyn  y  gyt  edywaut  y  vrenhynef . .  .  etholuch  er  aurbon  gwyr  a 
wypo  auch  dedyf  ac  en  graff  ac  atepoent  ym  a  ovynu6yf  .  Ac  wyntheu 
a  enkylyallant  en  aryneigufy  gaentach  erygthun  ehuneyn  .  ac  a  gauflant 
o  atbraon  eu  dedyf  ryuedi  myl  .  ac  eu  dwyn  ar  elen  .  a  dwyn  tyftyolaetli 
arnunt  y  gwydynt  ededyf  .  Ac  elen  a  dywaut  urthunt  Guerendeucb 
vyg  geiryeu  .  achymerucb  en  auch  cluftyeu  vi  emadrodyon  cany  deelluch 
en  emadrodyon  e  prophuydy  pa  delu  y  propbuydut  o  dyvodedigaeth 
cryft  Kynt  edywedwyt  .  Mab  aenyr  ac  nyt  ednebyd  y  vam   kyt  gOr  . 

Ac  eilweith  dauid   yfcryuennyd  y  molyanneu ends :  A  rac  y 

hovyn  e  rodaffant  indaf  ydi  .  .  .  hvii  a  adwen  ededyf  ae  gueithredoed 
...  a  hitben  a  deliif  iudaf .  ac  a  dywaut  urthav  .  bywyt  ac  angbeu  j'fyd 
rac  dy  vroii   etbol  er  h6n|hynn  a  vynnych   ae  dy  vyw^  .  ae  dy  varw  || 
Compare  MS.  5,fols.  viij.-x. 


The  remaining  pages  (101-190),  which  belong  to  another  MS.  (Hen.  13),  are  in 
a  baud  of  the  second  quarter  of  the  xiyth  century.  This  part  is  imperfect  at  the 
beginning  and  end. 

101  The  Life  of  St.  Margaret — beginning  wanting.  The  icording 
differs  from  that  in  Pen.  3IS.  5,  fol.  xxii]6.,  q.v.  Page  101  is  much 
rubbed  and  partially  illegible.       \\  aoriic  (?)  hithen  gwyby[d  di  djuw 

er    bvvnn    arodef y   gynnal    uy    morwyndawt  na   elly  di    kyfroi 

-yar    ford    y    wirioned  yr   hon   adeclireueif. ends:  A  minheu 

yn  wir  teothimuf  uy  henw  a  gymereif  y  korfB  kyfiygredic  ywyn- 
uydedic  uargrct  ac  ae  dodcif  y  mewn  yfgrin  o  uaen  awueuthum 
yn  dinaf  antioffia  y  mewn  ty  vvreic  da  aelwit  fmcleta  myui  auu 
yn  gwafanaethu  arnei  yny  karchardy  o  uara  adwuyr  ac  fynnyeif  yn 
graff  yhymladeu  yn  hollawl  yn  erbyn  y  paganyeit  enwir  ac  ae  hyfgriuen- 
neif  ygwedi  uubiui  ymewn  llyfreu  yn  gwbyl  ac  aebanuoneif  drof  wynep 
vgriftonogaetb  .  Pymhetyd  kalnn  awft  yniif  gorffennaf  y  kwplawd 
ywynuydedic  uargret  yboll  weithredoed  yn  tagneued  grift  yr  hwun  y 
mae  anryded  agogonyant  agallu  amedyan  drwy  yr  boll  oeffoed     Ameu. 

116  JLyma  vabjnogi  fESU  GRIST:  being  the  latter  part  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Pseudo-Matthew ;  imperfect  between  pp.  122  and  i23fi.  Compare 
MS.  5  and  see  libellus  de  infantia  saluatobis  in  Bodley  MS 
Laud  Misc.  471,  folio  83i-90i.  Kymer  y  map  ao  uam  hep  yr  angel 
wrth  iofep  a  dof  yfEord  ydifi§ith  yr  eifEt  .  A  ^ofep  yuteu  aaeth  mal 


LIVES,   HISTORIES,   AND   PAUL'S   VISION.  333 

y  gorchymynnawd  yr  angel  agwedy  dyuot  onadunt  hyt  yn  emyl  gogof 
amynnu  gorffowyf  y  difgyuuawd  ywynuydedic  wyry  yar  ymarch  yr  llawr 

ac  eifted  aoruc  adaly  j'map  yefl'u  ar  yharffet ends  :  Ac  ny 

lauafei  nep  uwyta  iiac  yuet  nac  eilted  ar  uwrd  na  tbori  bara  hynuy 
bendigei  ef  yn  gyntat'  ac  ony  bei  ef  yny  lie  ef  aaroit  yny  delei  .  Aphan 
vyimei  ci'  uwla  meir  aifofep  ae  urodyr  ae  ueibion  auydynt  yny  gylch  . 
yurodyr  ynteu  agetwynt  yuclied  ef  ger  bron  eullygeit  megifllugorn  .  ac 
ae  bouynheiut  ef  .  Aphan  gylgei  ^eflu  nac  ynol"  nac  yn  dyd  cglurder 
dnw  adywynnei  arnaw  .  yr  hwnn  auuchedokaa  acawledycha  ygyt  ar  tat 
ar  yfbryt  glan  hep  drango  hep  orfEen  yn  oefoefoed     Amen. 

136  Proffwydolijaeth  uerdin  yio  :  Ac  yna  ual  yd  oed  gortheyrn 
gortheneu  bvenhin  ybrytanyeit  yn  eifte  ar  Ian  ygwehynnedic  lynn 
hwnn  ynacbaf  dwy  dreic  yn  kyuodi  obonaw  ar  neill  onadunt  yn  wenn 
ar  Hall  yn  goch  .  Ac  yna  gvvedy  eu  kyuodi  ac  eu  dyuot  yn  gyuagof 
wynt  ygyt  dechreu  girat  ymalad  awnaethnnt  ac  ellwng  tau  oc  eu 
hanadyl  .  Ac  yna  ar  y  dechreu  y  goruu  y  dreic  wpnn  achymell  y  dreic 
goch  y  fo  hyt  ar  eithauoed  y  llynn  ,  Ac  yna  gwedy  gwelet  or  dreic 
goch  y  bot  yn  wrthladedic  haeaeach  or  llynn  I'ef  awnaeth  yna 
doluryaw  yn  uawr  adwyn  y  ruthyr  yr  dreic  wenu  achymell  dracheuyn 

yn    wychyr ends  -.  Ac   wrtb  hynny    ykeil"  y  baeu  twylledic 

y  bleid  ar  arth  ac  yd  eirch  udunt  kyweiriaw  y  golledigion  aelodeu 
ydaw  ar  rei  hynny  gwedy  gvvnelont  datleu  ac  el'  yd  adawant  ydaw 
deudroet  adwy  gluft  allofgwrn  .  Ac  or  rei  hynny  kyuaufodi  aelodeu 
hwch  ydaw  .  ahynny  agymer  ynteu. 

151  breudioyt  paid  yw  htcnn  .  Dyw  I'ul  yfj'd  dyd  etholedic  gan 
duw  yn  yr  hwnn  yllawenhaa  yr  eneidieu  yn  uwy  noc  yn  dydyeu  ereill 
agwybydet  bawp  pany'w  pawl  eboftol  amihangel  ydangoffes  duw  udunt 
boeneu  ufFern  .  ac  yna  ygwelei"  pawl  eboftol  ger  bronn  ufFer»  deri 
tanllyt   kanghawc    ac    wrth  ykangheu   eneidieu   pechaduryeit  yngkroc 

ends  :   Ar  angel  adyuawt  pet  uei  bedeirmil  ardec  adeugeinmil 

achanmil  yn  riuaw  poeneu  uilern  aphetwar  tauawt  haearn  yrapenn 
pob  un  o  honunt  nylferheint  yn  riuaw  poeneu  uffern  .  wrth  hynny 
pwybynnac  ohonom  ni  aglywo  ydrygeu  hynn  ni  adylywn  ymchwelut  ar 
yn  arglwyd  ni  velTu  grift  uiegif  ykaffom  gyt  ac  ef  buched  tragywyd  hep 
drang  hep  orffeii  amen.      Cf.  IISS.  S,  15,  32,  §■  Jesus  College' MS.  119. 

161  Yftoria  JudaJ  yw  hon :  Gwr  aoed  gynt  yngkarufixlem  aelwit 
ruben  ereill  aegalwei  fimeon  o  liu  ^udaf  ac  olin  ifalvar  lierwyd  ereill 
ahenw  ywreic  oed  kiborea  anofweitli  gwedy  bot  kyt  ydaw  ae  wreic  y 
gwelef  ywreic  breudwyt  ....  Myui  awelwn  hep  hi  efgor  map  bonhedic 
ohonofi  acef  auydei  achawf  ygyuyrgolli  kenedyl  o  honaw  .  Yf  yfgymun 
adatkan  yw  yteu  hep   ygwr  ac  nyt  orat  duw   ydwyt   yn  hynny  namyn 

odrycyfbryt     yn   arwein   dy    feuthuc ends:    Ac  arodef    yr 

aryant  hwnnw  dracheuyn  oediuarwch  .  Ac  yna  yd  ymgrogef  ehun  .  ac 
yrwygawd  yemyfgar  yny  aeth  yr  llawr  .  Ac  yna  yd  arbedwyt  ef  kanyt 
oed  deilwng  amherohi  ygeneu  auuaffei  wrth  eneu  Jeffu  ar  galon  hagen  ar 
gwdwf  ar  emyfgar  ymedylwy t  ybrat  yndunt  yny  uu  godyant  gan  engylyon 
nef  achriftonogyon  y  daear  .  Ac  am  hynny  y  bwry-.vyt  ynteu  uffern  hyt 
dyd  brawt.     Cf.  Pen.  MS.  5,  fol.  xi , 

165  Yftoria  adaf  ytv  hom  :  En  yr  awr  y  pechawd  adaf  ygwrth- 
ladwyt  ef  obaradwyf  am  ybechawt  allef  adodef  ynteu  am  ywelet  ynoeth 
ac  odrugared  duw  ykudwyt  ef  deil  .  ac  orubuchet  ydedewit  idaw  clew 
trugared  yn  diwed  y  oes  .  Ac  yna  yd  aeth  adaf  ac  eua  y  wreic  ygyt  ac  ef 
hyt  ylle  aelwit  glyn  ebron  .  Ac  yna  yd  erchit  ydaw    !]a|uryaw  drwy 

chwyf  oe  aelodeu  a  chyngweinieint  ygalon ends  :     Ac  yna 

yd    aethant    ynydoed    yprenn    athorri    aorugant    ydraean    ac  o  hwnnw 


334  PENIA.ETH   MANUSOEIPTS    14-15. 

o-wneuthur  croc  ygrift  nyt  amgen  oed  yhyt  no  feitli  guuyd  .  athorri 
cuuyd  yn  hyt  pob  breich  auydei  ar  drawf  .  ac  wynt  ae  dugant  hyt  ylle 
aelwir  kaluaria  .  ac  av  honno  ykrogaffant  hwy  ^effu  grift  yn  arglwyd  ni 
^r  yecliyt  yr  ae  cretto  yn  yr  hwnn  ymae  anryded  agogonyant  tragywyd. 
Ac  yuelly  ydyuawt  matheu  euwangelyftor  diodef  oc  yn  arglwyd  ni. 
Ac  yuelly  yteniyna  yftorya  adaf : — For  a  Latin  version,  see  Bodley 
MS.,  Laud  Misc.,  47],fol.  66-70,  col.  i. 

180  YsTORiA  BEBEDvn:  Efrawe  yarll  bieuoed  yarlleth  yny  gogled. 
A  feithmeib  aoed  idaw  .  ac  nyt  oe  gyuoeth  yd  ymborthei  ef  yn  bennaf 
namyn  o  dwrmeinieint  ac  ymladeu  aryueloed  .  Ac  yny  diwed  yllan 
ef  ae  chwemeip  .  Ar  feithuet  map  aoed  idaw  .  ac  nyt  oed  oet  ydaw 

gyrchu  brwydyr  ac  yfef  oed  yhenw  peredur this  fragment 

ends  :  ef  adaw  j  dol  ac  ar  ytu  arall  yr  dol  ef  awelei  kaer  uawr  allys 
delediw  ac  yr  llys  ymewn  ydoeth  ar  an  daw  yr  neuad  ef  awyl  gwr 
gwynllwyt  yn  eifted  amacwyueit  yn  amyl  yn  gylch  achyuodi  aoruc 
isawb  yny  erbyn  ae  diarchenu  ae  rodi  y  eifted  ar  neillaw  y  gwr 
gwynllwyt  affan  aethbwyt  yuulwyta  ar  neillaw  y  gwr  gwynllwyt  yd 
eiftedawd  peredur  .  ac  gwedy  darvo  ||  See  Mabinogion,  pp.  193-202, 
1.  17  (.Oxford,  1887). 


MS.  15  =  Hen.  57.  Lives  of  Saints,  Elucidaridm,  and  other 
theological  treatises  and  tracts.  Vellum  ;  7|  x  5|  inches  ;  xvth  century; 
in  three  different  hands  (a.  pp.  1-123,  1.  1 ;  6.  pp.  123,  1.  2-125; 
c.  pp.  127-46)  ;  146  pages,  more  or  less  loose,  in  original  limp  vellum 
covers.  Pages  1-123,  1.  1,  of  this  MS.  appear  to  be  a  transcript  with 
some  additional  matter  of  Jesus  College  MS.  119,  i.e.  JLyvyr  Agkyr 
JLandeivivrevi  (Oxford,  1894),  and  contain  the  end  of  Gwlat  feuan 
vendigeit,  which  is  missing  in  the  Jesus  College  MS.  For  the  remaining 
contents  see  MS.  5  above.     Hand  b.  is  later. 

I  [J/a/  yd  aeth  Meir  i  nef].  Melito  was  krift  efcob  eglwys  Sardinei 
yn  anvon  anerch  mywn  tagneved  grift  oe  anrydeddvffon  vrodyr  yrei 

yflyd  yn  preffwylyaw  yn  laodicia  ac  yn  govyn    Paham ends  : 

Ac  a  wledycha  yny  drindawt  berffeith  teir  perfon  nyt  amgen  y  tat  ar 
mab  ar  yfpiyt  glan   ac  yn  vn  duw  anwahanedic  yn  yr  oes  oeffoed. 

7  JLymapvmp  rinwed  offer  en  fvl :  Pvmp  rinwed  offeren  fvl  ynt  yrei 
hyn  kyntaf  o  honvnt  y w  bot  hyn  hwy  y  hoedyl ends  : 

hyt  yr  wythnos  nachward  wen. 

8  ILytna  vrevdwyt  Bawl  ebyftol :  Dvw  Sul  dyd  etholedic  yny  yr 
hwu  y  danvones  dvw  viangel  i  dangos  trwy  vrevdwyd  y  bawl  yr  hyn 
aydoe'd  yn  damvnaw  y  welet  Sef  oed  hynny  poenev  vffernn  Aphan 
yttoed  bawl  yn  mynet  debygei  ef  ygyt  a  Mihagel  ef  awelas  geir  bron 

pyrth  vffernn Pwy  bynac  o  honom  ni  aglywho  meint  poenev 

criftonogyon  agkredadwy  a  lle6enyd  yr  eneidev  bvchedawl  Ameint 
adiodefawd  crift  yrhom  ni  ninhev  adylyhem  haeddv  y  vedyant  ef  val  y 
kaffem  vvched  tragywydawl  yn  tarnas  gwlat  nef  Ac  yna  ydywat 
yr  arglwyd : — 

II  ILyma  yr  achos   ydevth   bar  dvw  ynychplid  a  methyant  ar  ych 

llafvr ends  :  hyt  ar  allawr  eglwys  peder  a  phawl  yn  rvvein  oe 

rybvdyaw  amweith  fvlyeu    Ac  veleu 

12  Rijbvd  gabriel  angel  at  veir  yw  hwnn  pan  difgynnawd  ieffv 
grift  yny  brvhi  .-  Ef  aanvonet  Gabriel  angel  y  gan  dvw  y  dinas  o  alilea 

yr  hwn  aoes  henw  nafared ends :  llyma  lawvorwyn  yr  arglwyd.. 

vit  ymi  herOyd  dy  eir  di    Amen. 


THEOLOGICAL  TREATISES.  335 

13  ILyma  evegyl  Jevan  ehoftol :  ILyma  fynnwyr  evegyl  ^evan 
ebol'tol  hervvyd  ydehal   ar  lynhwyr  a  rodes  dvw  yr  neb  ae  troes  oladin 

ygkymraec ends  :  kanys  ydynyolyaeth  ef  ae   eneit  aroddet  yr 

hoU  radev  ar  hoU  wybodev  yr  hwnn  ny  rodet  y  nob  eithyr  idaw  ehvn 
ahynny  ya  Ijollawl. 

15  ILyma  ach  dewi  athalym  oe  vvched  :  Davyd  vab  fant  .... 
Keredic  vrenhin  wledychawd  llawer   ovlvvynyded  ac  oe  euw  ef  ykauas 

keredigyawn   yhenw ends  :  Ac   ygrymoccao  y  eirawl  ynynhev 

geir  bi'onu  ygwir  greawdyr  ar  gaffel  trvgared  racllaw 

Dijwedttt  yw  htjt  hijnn  o  dalym  o  vvched  deioi  ae  wyrthev 

Dywedadwy  yw  racllaw  o  heth  o  vvched  bevno  Ae  icerthev 
25  Gwr  bonhedic  Aoed  gynt  ympowys  yny  lie  aelwir  banbenic  geir 

Haw  avon  aelwit  ynyr  amfer  hwiinw  Sabrina ends  :    Archwn 

nynhev  trvgared  dvw  boll  gyvoetbawc  drwy  gamiborthwy  bevno  lant 
val  y  gallom  nynhev  gafFcl  y  gyt  ac  evo  bvched  tragyvvyd  vQyr  oes 
oefiwed     Amen.         ILyma  ach  bevno     Bevno  vab  bvgi  &c. 

30  Credo  Athanasius  -.  Val  hijn  ijdigawnn  ijtat  ar  mab  ar  yfpryt 
glan  vot  yn  vn  dvw  nyt  atngen  noc  yn  wir  dipedrvs  ar  rubric  hwn 
a  elwir  yn  lladin  Qui  ctinque  wit :  Pwy  bynnac  a  vynnho  yacbaw  yeneit 
ae  gorff  reit  yw  idaw  ef  yn  gyntaf  peth  kynnal  ffyd  gyffredin  eglwys 
ieffv  grift e7ids  :  a  hynny  agredir  yn  wir. 

32     Yny  mod  hwn  y  dyfgir  ydyn  py  delw  y  dyly  credv  y  dvw  S)-c.  : 

Pawl  eboftol  adyweit  na  ellir   raglcbod  ydvw  heb  ffyd ends  : 

A  pbob  trift  galarvs  ydidauv  kyt  dolvryaw  agwan  trwy  ygarv  atbros  pob 
aghyfnertbvs  gwediaw  ar  dvw  y  drvgarliaw  vrtbaw. 

36  ILyma  y  drydijd  ran  or  llyvyr  aelwir  KYSfiEGYRLAN  vvched 
aenwir  ymborth  yr  eneit  Ac  yndaw  ymae  teir  ran  gwahanredaiol 
Yran  gyntaj  adraetha  am  ygwydyev  gocheladwy  ar  gdpev  arver- 
adwy :  Sef  yw  yr  rei  hynny  y  feith  pechodev  marwolyon  kanys 
aghev  a  barant  yr  eneit  &e. 

Traetlier  bellach  am  bob  vn  ar  neilltv  ....  Ac  yn  kyntaf  am 
valchder  ....   (2)     am     aghawrdeb  ....   (3)      am     gynghorvynt 

....  ("4)    am   aniweirdeb (5)    am  lythineb  ....  (6)  am 

irlloned  ....  (7)  am  lefget vegys  y  mae  pob  vn  or  gwydyev 

yn  gyfl!  yw  keingev  velle  ymae  balchder  yn  gyff  y  Seith  brlfwyt. 

ii.  Traether  bellach  am  y  kanipev  yfpi'ydolyon  yl3'd  yn  wrthivyneb  yr 
gwydyev     Seith  yfyd  or  kampev  yn  erbyn  y  Ibithbriwyt  &c  : — 

Traetlier  bellach  ara  dwywawl  garyat   drwy  yr  hwn   y   kyl'lylkler  y 

kreawdyr  dvw  ae  kreadvr  dyn ends:  Ac  velle  y  tervyna  ?/»■ 

eil  ran  or  llyuyr  hwn  nyt  amgen  noc  o  dwywawl  garyat. 

iii.  Traether  bellach  am  y  rann  arall  ogyfegerlan  vvched  nyt 
amgen    amberle'wycvaev    amarwhvnev     adelont     or    dwywawl    garyat 

hwn ends : 

gwiw  ne  morewyn  gwanec.  Gwanecveit 

54  \Hystorya  Adrian   ac   Ipotis'].    Pwy  bynnac  a  vynnho    clyfcu 

doetbineb    Ae  yfprydolyon  orcheftonn  gwaranndawet ends  : 

Ac  yny  mod  hwnnw  y  tervynha  ymdidan  idrian  amherawdyr  ac  ^potis 
val  yfprydawl  dvw  .  Amen. 

61  Lucidar  :  Mynych  yd  erchis  vygykyt  difgyblon  ymi  ellwg  neb 
rei  oovynnei  bychein  vdvnt  ac  ny  eilleis  .  i  .  yneccav  rac  bot  yn  pechawt 
ym  kvdyaw  yny  dayar  yfwUt  aorchymmynnwyt  ym  yny  vo  yllafvr  hwn 
yn  lies  yn  yr  awr  honn  Ac  yrei  adel  yn  boll  wrth  hynny  Mi  aorchy- 
mynnaf  Ac  aarchaf  yr  neb  ae  darlleo  wedraw  dvw  droffof  Emv  y  llyvyr 


336  PENIARTH   MANUSCEIPT    15. 

hum  yw  lvcidar  Sef  yw  hynny  golevlyvyr  kanys  yndaw  ygolevheir 
amryvalyon  dywyllyon  bethev  Ny  mynegys  ynhev  vy  enw  vyhvn  Eac 
gwallygyaw  y  gweithredoed  hyn  o  genvigen  archet  hagen  ydarlleawdyr 
yllTivemiv  yny  nef  enw  yneb  ae  gwnaeth  Ac  na  dileer  yenw  oolyvyr 
y  vvched   &c.     Gweithret  y  llyvyr  hwn  aberthynn  ar  dwy  berfon  nyt 

atngen     Ar  difgybyl  yn  govyn  ac   ar  athro  yn    atteb ends: 

Dvw  ath  gyfvlawnno  tit.hev  orvcliaf  athro  oogoiiyant  y  feint  A  gwelet 
ohonat  brenhin  nef  yny  nef  yn  anryded  Adaoed  karvfalem  yn  lioU 
dydyev    dy  vvched     Amen. 

115  Jevati  offeirat :  I;yma  lyuyr  aanvones  brenhin  yr  yndia 
yamberawdyr  (^onftantinobyl  &c. 

Jevan  offeirat  o  gyvoeth  a  nerth  dvw ends :  Ac  ybvdawir 

yno  yn  gyhyt  ac  y  gallem  my vwyd  Ayl 'odyno 

yd  awn  yn  gynlaw ryw  vwyt  ....  yffyd  ym  byth  . 

Ac  ar  hynny  y  tervyna  y  llyvyr  hwnnw. 

123  A  fragment  of  the  Grail  story:  Pan  ytoed  Arthvr  yngaer 
Uion  y  dinas  ardderchokaf  yn  y  damweinnawd  dyfot 

gwr  gwyllwyt  enrededdus Ac  velly  ybvant  o  wyl  ^evan  yn  yr 

haf  hyt  pethewnos  wedy  G-wyl  viangel  A  nofw[eith]  "yr  oed  Arthvr 
heb  allv  kyl'gv  allevat  hydref  yn  Uathrv  golev  ynyr  yitafell  dioer  heb 
ef  nev  allei  mae  Gvi'eledigaeth  avyPn]  dvw  ym  y  Gwelet  pgvvifgyaw 
amdaniw  aorvc  agadaw  yde[vlv]  yn  Icyfgv  a  mynet  odieithyr  yllys  ar 
hyjt  glan  ivyfc  hyny  |  yr  Aber  ac  yno  arganvot  Hong  aorvc  wedy 
angjri  abat  fyn]  rwym  wrth  ytir  &c.  &c. 

127  Y  clot  ar  enreded  ar  kyfarO/  Atalher  ydyn  gleO  gwedy  yuudu- 
golyaeth  a   Petmic  ac  aberi  y  ereill  gwnuthnr  y  [ky]fryO  I'euder  yr 

kaffel  ykyfry6  enreded  ar  clot  ar  kyfaros  h0nn6 a  chanys  vn 

o  rei  penhaf  or  feint  ar  fanteffeu  a  diliffaf  yn  cynhal  cret  crift 

vu  Vargaret  Santes  &c. 

128  The  Life  of  St.  Margaret:  Y  Gwynuedediccaf  vargaret  aoed 
verch  yteudos  g6r  breinhaOl  bonedic  yny  kyfamfer  hOnnO  .  eithyr  y  vot 
ynidoli  y  geudGyeu  .  Ac  nyt  oed  ida6  ef  vn  verch  eithyr  Margaret 

ehim  fydlaSn  oed  hi  achyfla6n  or  yfpryt  glan ends :  Minheu 

teotenus  a  dugum  corff  gwynuededic  vargret  Ac y  ninheu  madeuant 

om  pechodeu  .  A  g6ii-  leweuyd  didiffic  di  orfen  gyt  ar  tat  ar  mab  ar  yfpryt 
glan  boet  gwir     Amen. 

138  The  Life  of  St.  Catherine:  Argl6ydi  gwerendeOch  adeeUOch  hyn 
adywedaf  iOoh  or  wyry  vendigeit  aelwir  feint  Katrin  Merch  oed  y  vrenbin 
conftantinobyl  yr  hOn  aelwit  yn  Hadin  Alexander  .  yr  honn  adechreaOd 
oe  ieuectit  waffauaethu  duO  ....  ends  .•  A  ninheu  a  adolygOn  y  du6 
yv  y  charyat  hi  trugared  yn  eneiteu  .  Ac  a  rodho  in  vywyt  ynybyt 
hOn  yma  msgys  y  gallom  dyfot  y  diwed  da  acharu  duG  ae  waffanaethu 
Megys  y  gallom  dyfot  yr  flewenyd  ny  deruyd  yr  karyat  Seint  katrin 
Amen  ,  Pater  noUer    Ac  velly  y  teruynna, 

144  Kyntaf  hen6  a  vu  ar  yr  ynys  hon  kyn  y  chael  nae  chyuauhedu 

klas  Merdiu  a  gOedy  y  chael  ae  chyuanhedu  y  vel  ynys  &c ends  ;■ 

Sef  y  delyir  y  dala  Orth  goron  Uindein  atheir  taleith  vn  j  mhenryn  Rioued 
yny  Gogled  ar  eil  daleith  yn  Aberfraw  Ar  drytyd  yn  GernyG  .  Athri 
Archefcopty  adylyei  vot  yndi  vn  yn  Gaer  Gent  .  ar  eil  yn  Gaer  Uioa 
ar  6yik  ar  drytyd  yn  Gaer  BnraGc  yny  G  ogled  .  Sef  yO  honno  ^orc. 


THEOLOGICAL  TREATISES.  337 

MS.  16  =  Hen.  54.     A  composite  vellum  MS.  made  up  oF  several 
fragments  ;  sewn  iu  old  vellum  covers. 

Part.  i.     PwYLL  Y  Pader  ar  Gredo.    6|  x  5  inches  ;  folios  o-ll«; 

(?)  xiiith  century, 
ii.     Fragments.     6J  X  5  inches  ;  fols.  13-226;  xvth  century. 
iii.     Prophecy  of  Merlin  and  the  Story  op  Maxen.     6|  x  4| 

inches;  fols.  25-456;  middle  of  the  siiith  century. 
iv.     Triads    and   Bonhed    y  Seint.       6§  x  5^  inches;    fols. 

50-5 16  ;  early  Xlllth  century.  This  part  is  a  fragment  of 

the  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth  MS.  at  Dingestow  Court. 

V.     Triads.      6|  x  4|  inches ;    fols.    55-576 ;    autograph   of 
Simwnt  Vychan. 
"Liber  Gilbertus  Roberts"  occurs  on  page  55. 
Fols  1-2.  Table  of  contents  ;  folios  3-5,  186-195,  23-24,  46-49  are  blank. 

Folio  5.  I'wyll  y  pader,  i.e.,  a  treatise  on  the  Paternoster  :  Mai  y 
dyweit  feint  auftin  o  eirieu  du6  .  Mawr  ymdiriet  y6  .  y  gaffel  yr  hynn 
a  archer  y  duw  .  Nyt  amgen  yn  gyntaf  dywedut  ywedi  \'r  honn  adyfgwyl 
yr  ax-glOyd  ieffu  grift  .  yr  ebyftyl  .  Sef  yO  hono  Pater  nofter  qui  eft  in 
celif  .  Pa  beth  ny  rodei  ef  oe  veibyon  aerchynt  idaO  yr  hOn  a   ryd  yni 

yn  bot  yn  veibeyon  idaO ends  .    Efeithuet   wedi   a  dodir   yn 

erbyu  godineb   .   Pan    ddywedir   .   Libera  nos   a  malo  .   Sef   yO  pwyll 

hynny  .  Rytha  ti   nini  ywrth  y  drwc Ac  yuy   Oeint  uwyaf  y 

dechreuho  yfprydaOl  uryt  cael  blaf  a  regghi  bod  idi  ehun  .  yny  veint 
hono  yn  rydach  ac  yn  llaOenach  y  tremycca  dyn  cnaOdawl  Nelyfter  .  Ac 
yuelly  yny  diwed  pan  vo  bryt  dyn  yn  dagnoueduf  endi   ehun  .  pryt  na 

chwenych  hi  ddim  bydawl A  herwyd  hynny  ydywedir  yn  yr 

eueggyl  .  Gwyn  eu  bj^t  y  rei  taggnoueduf  canyf  y  rei  hynny  rac  wyneb 
a  elwir  yOeibyon  y  duw. 

Hambych  well  meir  lla6n  o  rat  yr  arglCyd  y  gyt  ath  ti  .  bendigetdic  wyt 
ti  yny  g6riiged  .  A  benndigedic  yO  frwyth  dy  groth  di. 

Folio  9.  The  Credo  with  a  commentary.  YNy  gredo  y  mae  deudec 
pOnc  herwyd  rif  y  deudec  ebyftyl  y  gwyr  awnaethaut  y  gredo  .  POnc 
gwahanredaOl  a  wnaeth  pob  vn  o  naddunt  ....  Pan  doeth  meibon  yr 
ifrael  drOy  eurdonen  yd  erchif  iofue  y  .  .  .  .  ddeudegwyr  or  deudec  llGyth 
kymryt  deudeg  main  ma6r  o  gana61  yr  auon  or  lie  y  'buaffei  tract  yr 
offeirieit  yfeuyll  dan  yr  arch  yftauen  ....  Trwy  y  deudec  mein  ...  yd 
arwyddockeir  y  deudec  pOno  ....  [ef]  addyweit  yr  yfprydglan  y  parha 
Ifyt  achred  yn  dragywytaOl  .  E  pOnc  kyntaf  or  deuddec  ....  Credo  i  d'ni 
&c.     Sef  yw  pwyll  y   geireu  hynny  Mi   a  gredaf  yn  duO  tad   hoUgy- 

uoethaGc   &c ends :   E  pymhet  p6nc  .  vitam  eternam   .  Sef  y6 

jjwyll  hynny  .  Mi  agredaf  kael  or  feint  buched  o  goned  yny  nef  y  gyt 
a  du6  ....  E  rei  a  gretont  ac  a  vedydyer  .  y  rei  hynny  a  gaffant  nef  .  ar 
rei  ny  chretont  ac  ny  vedyddyer  .  y  rei  hynny  heb  amheu  aant  yg 
hyfuyrgoll  tragywydawl  .  Explic  1e. 

Eolios  11,1.  14-l!i.  The  writing  here  has  been  retraced,  and  so  badly  gall-stained 
as  to  be  practicably  illegible.     Folios  12-13  are  blank. 

Folio  136.  Brytaen  oreu  or  ynyffed  yr  honn  a  elwit  gynt  y  wenn 

3'nys   yggorllewinawl   eigiawn ends :    Ac    megis   y    doeth    y 

gormeffoed  hynny  ni  aer  damlewychwn  racllaw. 

Folio  14.  Gildas  hen  brofEwyt  y  brytanyeit  a  dyweit  yn  hen  yftoryaev 
y  brytanyeit  .  panyw  petwar  peth  awnaethant  yr  b.  colli  ev  hanryded 
&C.  ^^''1/  liadlt/  gall-stained.     For  a  transcript,  see  p.  289  of  MS.  267  infra. 


338  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   16. 

Folios  15,   1.    13-166.    These  pages  are  so  stained  -witli  gall    as  to 
be  illeo-ible  as  a  -whole.      The  subject-matter  is  in  verse,  but  written  as 
f  in  prose.     The  following  lines  occur  on  fol.  16 : — 
lie  mae  dadlev  y  drydw  llydw  Ueirllic 
lie  byd  vcheldyd  ar  ychydic 
He  mae  tylluan  gwrach  vegyrwan|vic     .... 
lie  diwen  pob  unben  pwyllic     ,     .     .     . 
kyflc  am  benn  Adaf.  .ryfE  rwygedic. 

Folio  17b.  Yr  athraon  y  rey  agawflant  ac  a  gadarnaffaiit  |  mifloed  a 
dydyeu  y  vlwydyn  .  ylpys  yw  bot  pedwar  dieu  ar  dec  ar  rugeint  yny 
vlwydyn  aphwy  bynac  a  lyrtheo  yn  haint  yn  vn  or  dydyeu  hynny  ny 
chyuyt  byth  .  a  fwy  bynac  a  anet   yn  vn  or  dydyeu  hyny  .  ny  byd  hir 

y   byd    by w ends :  Tridieu    yffyd   yny  vlwydyn  .   ny   dyly 

vn  dyn  eHwg  gwaed  yr  neb  ryw  agen  na  chyinryt  raedeginiaeth  .  nyt 
amgen  y  dyd  diwaethaf  o  ebrill  .  ar  llun  kyntaf  or  kynhaeaf .  ar  11  un 
diwaethaf  o  vis  tachwed. 

Folio  20.  A  fragment  ending  thus ;  Megyf  y  dywedir  yr  eryr 
ymdidan  or  heng  .  .  .  y  bryttaneit  ar  yfcoteit  a  lywant  y  tatolyon  tyrnaf- 
ibed  .  6y  a  wledychant  y  gyt  yn  yvyd  tangneuedus  .  wedy  gOrthladon  y 
gelynyon  hyt  dyd  braut. 

b.  JLyma.  dechreu  prof6ydolyaet  yr  eryr :  Mai  y  gwrthlad  y  dreic 
wen  y  dreic  coch  y  uelly — what  follows  is  so  deeply  stained  with  gall 
as  to  be  most  difficult  to  read — the  text  is  either  much  abbreviated  or 
the  middle  part  is  lost. 

Folio  22.  This  leaf,  on  both  sides,  has  a  few  lines  about  the  passion  of  Christ. 

Folio  25.  The  Prophecy  of  Merlin  with  a  commentary*  :  Pan  yd 
oet  gortheyrn  en  eifted  ar  lanu  e  llyn   gueehyinyedic  y  kyuodaffant 

o  honaO  dwy  dreic bwyftuilet  a  gaffant  tagneued  .  Oanyf 

egan  e  brenhin  e  llunyethwyt  tagneved  er  bwyftuilet  o  achauf  y 
forefteu  ac  urth  henne  e  gorchymynnvf  e  brenhin  torri  traet  e  kwn  . 
Dynyolaeth  a  dolurya  poen  .  Sef  oed  henne  .  Trof  boen  e  keuryu 
henne  doluryant  e  deneon  .  Canyf  hon  oed  gyfreith  gvilim  baftard  . 
Pwe  bennac  a  ladei  ae  carw  ae  baed  cost  e  dallu  a  wneit  idav  gan 
dynnv  y  lygeit  oe  ben  .  ac  nyt  oed  nep  a  elei  eue  erbyn  .  Canyf  kemeint 
e  carei  ef  aniveilyeit  a  chet  bei  ef  eu  tat  .  Ac  urth  henne  foreft  newyd 
e  perif  ef  diftryu  trevi  a  diwreidyaO  kenedloed  yri  phreffwylya,v  o 
uwyftvilet  ac  or  achauf  honno  poenedic  oedynt  a  llidyauc  .  ac  eiffyoef 
ny  rodei  ef  ueffur  yr  eu  bar  wy  .  Ac  o  henne  e  dywedir  eu  gyvya&a 
Deniiolaeth  a  dolurya  poen  .  Neu  a  diodef  poen  .  Canyl  e  bwyltiulet 

a   gaffant  heduch   ar   deneon  a  doluryant  eu  poen etids  .- 

O  tcaffanaeth  ena  yd  emclOelantf  hep  dim  ac  ene  bo  eaedic  e  drwf 
yd  emdirgelant  yg  canholyeu  adrian  .  En'dyrnaut  e  palader  e  llofgant 
e  moroed  ac  elwyn  yr  henbetheu  a  adnewydhaa  .  E  g6ynnyeu  a 
emvriwant  o  irat  chwythyedigaeth  a  fein  awnant  era  plith  e  fyr 
Ac  y  velly  y  tervyna  prophwydyolaeth  Merdin  emreis. 

Folio  39*.  The  Story  of  Maxen  Wledig — imperfect.  Maxen  wledic 
oed  amperauder  en  ruvein  a  thecaf  gur  oed  a  doethaf  a  goreu  a  wedei 
en  amperaudei-or  a  vuaffei  kyn  noc  ef  .  Dadleu  brenhiued  a  oed  arnav 

diwyrnaut   ac   a   dywaut   urth   y   anwylyeit ends :  [Odyna]   e 

medylyuf  Eien  gwneithur  prifiy[rd  o  bob]  caer  idi  hyt  y  gihd  ar  drauf 

*  The  rubric  is  illegible,  and  the  gall-stain  makes  the  beginning  difScult  to  read. 
There  is  a  lacuna  in  the  middle  of  the  prophecy. 
+  Folio  41  belongs  to  this  prophecy.     Read— emoAbelant. 


THE   LIFE  OF  GRIFFITH   AP  KYNAN,  339 

enyf  brydein  o  achauf  henne  e  gelwir  wy  fyrd  elen  lluydauc  urth  e 
hanvothi  o  enys  brydein  ac  na  wnaei  wyr  enyf  brydein  .  y  Uuydeu  maur 
bene  e  nep  namen  idi  hi  Seitb  mlyned  e  bu  er  amperauder  en  er  euyl 
hon  .  Sef  oed  devaut  [gOyr  ruuein  yn  yr  amler  liOnnO]  Pa  amperauder 
bennac  a  dr || 

Folio  50.  Historical  mid  other  Triads.  ||kerny\7  .  A  Bytwini  efgob 
yn  ben  efgyb  .  A  charadawc  vreichuraf  yn  ben  benyf  .  Arthur  yn  ben 
teyrned   ym  penn  ryonyd  yny   gogled  .  A  gertliinul  wledic  yn  bonn 

hyneif  .  A  chyndeyrn  garthwyf  yn  benn  efgyb ends  :    teir 

pry£  uuch  .  e  .  p  .  brech  buwch  vaelg6n  gwyned  .  A  tbonnllwyt  bvwch 
meibyon  eliffer  gofgordvawr  .  A  chornillo  bu6ch  Uawuroded  varvavc. 

Folio   53.  Bonhed  y  seint :    Dewi .  m  .  fant  .  m  .  kedic  .  m  keredic 

M  .  cuneda    wledic ends :    TyvrydaOc  ymon  .  A    dyeuer  y 

.inotyuar|ru  yn  tegeingyl  .  A  theyrnaOc  yn  dyffryn  chvyt  .  A  thudyr 
yn  dar  ewein  .  yg  keueilyaOc  brodyr  oedynt .  meibyon  hawyftyl  gloff  . 
A  marchell  eu  chvaer  .  A  thywanOed  vercb  amlawt  wledic  eu  mam  .  kei- 
daO  .  M  .  enyr  gOent  .  Madrun  merch  wertheuyr  vrenhin.||     Cf.  MS,  45  &o. 

Folio  55.   Triads  (in  the  hand  of  Simwnt  Vychan)  :  ILyma  henwav 

y  pedwar  marchawc  arhvgain  Gorav  o  varchogyon  llys  Arthur 

ends :  Tair  gwragedd  a  gavas  pryd  Efa A  Pholexana  V3  hen 

vrenhin  troyaf  kyn  deked  oedd  Efa  a  hwynt  yll  tair. 


MS.  17  =  Hen.  406.  The  Life  of  Griffith  ap  Kynan  ;  con- 
cerning the  FOUR  ELEMENTS,  the  PLANETS,  &c. ;  Peoverbs.  VclIum ; 
71  X  5i  inches  ;  the  MS.  is  now  made  up  of  two  gatherings  of  16  pages 
each — tlie  original  "  second  "  and  "  fourth  "  gatherings  are  wanting,  so 
that  the  text  is  imperfect  in  the  middle  and  at  the  end  ;  the  writing  is 
by  the  same  hand  as  pp.  1-42  of  MS.  14  above,  and  belongs  to  the 
middle  of  the  xiiith  century;  half  bound  in  leather. 

This  MS.  is  supposed  to  have  been  once  at  Giyydir,  hut  there  is  110  evidence  beyond 
the  fact  of  its  being  on  vellum.  See  MS.  267,  p.  332  below,  -which  contains  a  com- 
plete text  of  the  Life  of  Gr:  ap  Kynan,  and  MS.  276,  which  contains  a  Latin 
translation.  See  also  Plas  Hen  MS.  26,  pp.  75-160,  printed  in  vol.  ii  of  the 
Myvyrian,  pp.  583-605  =  721-34. 

There  is  an  alternative  pedigree  of  Gr:  ap  C.  at  the  foot  of  page  1  in  a  hand 
resembling  that  of  Jaspar  Griffith. 

Eman  e  dechreu  hiftoria  hen  gruffud  vah  henan  .  vab  yago.  En 
dydyeu  edward  vrenhin  lloegyr  a  therdelach  vrenhin  ywerdon  e  ganet 
grufiud  vrenhin  gwyned  en  ywerdon  en  dinaf  dulyn  ac  yg  kymGt 
colomcell  y  magwyt  y  lie  aelwir  yg  gwydelec  f6rth  colomcell  .  A  tri 
milltir  y6  henne  y  urth  y  lie  yd  oed  y  vam  ae  vamvaeth  .  y  dat  oed 
kenan  vrenhin  gvyned  .  ae  vam  oed  ragnell  verch  avioed  vrenliia  dinaf 
dulyn  aphymet  raii  ywerdon  .  Ac  urth  henne  bonhedicaf  gur  oed  y 
gruffud  hvfiv  o  vrenhinyaul  genedel  a  llinyoed  goruehel .  megyf  y  tyfta 
ac  a  bonhed  y  reeni  .  Canyf  mab  oed  gruffud  y  gynan  vrenhin  "  m  .  yao-o 
M  .  idwal  .  M  .  eliffed  ,  m  .  meuryc  .  m  anaraut .  m  .  rodri  .  m  .  etill .  verch 

kenan  o  gaftell  dindaethue  .  m  .  idwal  dere ends :   A  phan 

vu  honneit  henne  guyr  gwyned  aphowys  a  gytduvnaffant  y  urthuynebu 
udunt  hep  daryftung  .  Ac  urth  henne  y  mudaffant  argluydi  powyf 
nyt  amgen  cadugavn  a  maredud  y  vravt  ac  eu  hanhedeu  ganthunt  hyt  ar 
gruffud  .  Ac  ena  wedy  || 

17  Concerning  earth,  water,  air,  and  fire  :  \\  pan  gerdo  j  duuyr 
truy  y  lleoed  gureffauc  brynnic  henne  y  tOymna  enteu ends: 


340  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   17. 

pan  ymdywynyoo  y  mor  y  nof  yr  morduywyr  mal  tan  teinyftyl  adau 
a  phan  weler  y  morvoch  yn  ymgyuodi  or  tonneu  henne  y  kyuyt  guynt 
yi-  awyr  ar  wybyr  kyffroedic  ac  a  agorant  yr  awyr  .  E  dyfred  ry 
gerdaffam  elgynnOn  weithyon  er  awyr. 

h.   Or  awyr  :  Awyr  yu  pob  peth  or  a  welir  en  wac  or  daear  hyt  y 

Ueuat  or  hun   y  kynheliir  buched  paub ends:  A.  dywedeif  i 

oil  y  adan  y  lleuat  y  mae  en  er  awyr  y  ar  henne  eglur  yu  hep  dywylluc  . 
Neil  ry  gerdaffam  er  awyr  efgynnwn  troftau  enteu  e  tan. 

19  £  Tan  yr  hOn  y  fyd  petweryd  defnyd  ny  megir  dim  endau  y 
dervyn    yu   or   lleuat  hyt  y   furuauent  .   a  herwyd   e    mae    gloewach 

atheneuaeh  e  duuyr  nor  daear ends :  Megyf  pei  etvei  edyn 

en  rot  melin  yr  edyn  eiffyoef  oe  briaut  gyffro  a  lavuryei  en  erbyn  yr 
olwyn  y  gerdet  .  y  velly  y  planedeu  hyn  ya  erbyn  y  fygneu. 

20  Concerning  the  seven  Planets,  the  "  signs  of  the  heavens,"  and 
the  signs  of  the  Zodiac :  ILeuat  yu  y  kyntaf  or  planedeu  a  lleihaf  or 
fyr  .  a  fef  achauf  hagen  y  guelir  hi  en  uwy  nor  lleill  iirth  y  bot  en  neffaf 

er  daear ends :  O  byd  coch  y  lleuat  en  betwared  megyf  lliw  eur 

guynnyeuadarogan  .  Of  eny  chyrryeuy  byd  manneu  duon  dechreu  y  mif 
a  dengyf  e  uot  en  glawawc  .  Of  eny  pherued  y  lladnlloneit  yn  eglur. 

b.  Mercuriits  yu  er  eil  planet  crwn  yu  y  furyf  &c. 

c.  UenufyvL  y  trydyd  planeft]  krwii  a  thanaul  a  goleu  yu  &c. 

d.  Petweryd  planet  yu  er  heul  ac  endi  ehun  y  mae  y  lleuuer  ket  pei 
tywyll  y  fyr  ereill  oil  .  kumpaf  yu  furyf  tanaul  y  hannyan  .  mwy 
wythweith  nor  daear  .  a  hi  a  ryd  lleuuer  yr  hoU  fyr  .  hon  a  dygir 
beunyd     or     duyrein     yr     goUewin     gan     gerdet     y    furvauen     &c. 

&e Odena  y  mae  duy  werthyt  y  furuauen  .  vn  y  neilltu  jv 

duyrein  ac  a  weUr  y  gennym  ni  ar  Hall  ene  deheu  ny  allwn  ninheu  byth 
y  guelet .  canyf  y  daear  y  fyd  yrom  a  hi  .  en  y  rei  henne  y  try  e  nef  val 

rot  eny  hachel Kentaf  fygyn  yu  e  maharaen   llawer  o  fyr 

yfyd  endau  .  herwj'd  chuedyl  hvnnv  yu  y  maharaen  ar  croen  eurin  a  due 

belief  trof  vor ends :  E  fyr  ry  gerdaffam  ac  a  gruydraffam  o 

chuedleu  efgj'nnvn  uch  no  henne  fyr  y  plygeint  a  heul  yr  heul  .  Y  ar  y 
furvauen  y  mae  dyfred  ar  gyfPelybruyd  wybren  yn  grogedic  ac  yg  kylch 
y  furuauen  y  credir  eu  bot  en  damgylchynedic  .  Ac  o  hviiv  y  dywedir 
y  nef  dyfraul.  Y  ar  hvnnv  e  mae  y  nef  yfprydaul  anetnebydedic  yr 
deneon  .  Eno  e  mae  preffuylua  guedy  ry  lunyethu  yn  naurad  .  Eno  e 
mae  paraduyf  y  paraduyffeu  ene  lie  y  byd  eneidyeu  y  feint  .  Hvnnv 
yv  y  nef  a  yfcriuenir  y  greu  y  gyt  ar  daear  ene  dechreu  .  Em 
«ell  odena  y  dywedir  bot  nef  y  neuoed  ene  lie  y  prefuyllya  brenhin  er 
dngylyon. 

27  IVblsh  Proverbs  alphabetically  arranged  as  regards  the 
initial  letter. 

Achubeit  maef  maur  adrycuarch 
At  uei  gell  ygi  menych  yd  aei  idi 
Amgeled  yki  am  y  kwfc  halaen. 
Annoc  dy  gi  ac  na  ret  gantbau. 

Atneu  kyhyryn  gan  gath ends . 

Gormef  ytaeauc  ar  ygilid. 
Gwir  adywaut  guiawn  gwt. . 
G-offymdeith  dyn  duw  ae  ran.   || 


.  BEUT   Y  TYWYSSOGION   ETC.  341 

MS.  18  =  Hen,  16  [numbered  "  23  "  previously].  Bkdt  y  Tywyssog- 
lON.  Vellum  ;  6|  x  i^  inches  ;  138  pages  ;  wanting  many  folios,  and  the 
first  and  last  existing  ones  are  partially  torn  away,  but  the  text  of  the 
whole  is  made  complete  by  the  insertion  of  printed  leaves  ;  circa  1330  ; 
bound  in  white  vellum. 

A  few  pages  are  much  .stained  and  difficult  to  read.  Pages  25-61,  1.  5, 
are  in  a  hand  different  from  but  comtemporary  with  pp.  1-24.  Tor  a 
facsimile,  see  the  Rolls  Edition  of  Bi'ut  y  Tijioyssogion.  The  MS.  text 
of  pages  1-4  *  *  5-8  *  *  9-88  *  *  89-137  *  *  =  Bruts  (Oxford, 
1890),  pp.  270,1.19-273,  1.17;  276,1.19-279,  1.25;  281,1.8-338,1.7; 
319,  1.  19-383,  1.  32  ;  384,  11.  7-24. 

'i^  On  p.  48  we  find  ia  a  xvth  century  hand  "  Adam  primus  homo  dampnauit  fecula 
pomo  q''  Huw  cae  Llwyt "  ;  and  the  name  of  "  Grace  Jones  "  (p.  3). 

The  text  begins :  \\  y  ylpeil(_6ynt  yn)  116yr  (yn  ymyl  y  uinas .  Ac  yna 
y  cryna)Od  y  dayar  yn  diruaOr  yn  boll  ynys  prydein  .  Ac  yna  y  bu  var6 
sulyen  efcop  myniO  .  y  doethaf  or  bryttannyeit  ac  arderchaOc  o  greuydw* 
uuched  .  wedy  clotuoruffaf  dyfcedigaeth  y  difgyblon  achraffaf  dyfc  y 
plGyfeu  y  pet6ar  ngeinuet  ulGydyn  oc  oes .  ar  unuet  eilfeu  ovgein  oe 
gylTegredigaeth  nos  kalan  ionuuGr  .  ac  yna  y(torr)et  (myni6)  y  gann  y 
kenedloed  yrynylTed  .  ac  ybu  uarO  kediuor  ap  gollOjn  .  a  lleOelyn  yuap  . 
ae'  urodyr  aGahaOdalTant  gr'  ap  marednd  .  ac  yny  erbyn  yd  ymladaOd 
rys  ap  teOdOr  yny  ur6ydyr  yn  llann  6dach    .    ac  y  gyrraOd  ar  flfo   ac  yd 

ymlidyaOd  ae  y  delis  .  ac  yny  di6ed  y  lladaOd ends :  Y  ul6ydyn 

honno  ygkylch  dechrcu  ykanhayaf  yd  anuones  y  brenhin  rann  vaOr 
oelu  y  von  ylofki  *  llaOer  or  61atac  yd6yn  llaGer  oe  hydeu  .  AgOedy 
hynny  y  doeth  11'  at  y  brenhin  yrudlann  ac  yhedycLaOd  ac  ef  .  ac  yna 
ygOahodes  ybrenhin  el  ynadolyc  ylundein  ac  ef  aaeth  yuo  .  ao  yrio  yrodes 
yOrogaeth  yrbrenhin  .  agGedy  y  trigyaG  petheGnos  yn  llundeiu  yd 
ymlioelaGd  ygymry  ac  ygkylch  gGyl  andras  ygellygGyt  yGein  goch  ac 
yGein  ap  gr'  ap  gGenGynGyn  ogarchar  11'  drGy  orchymyn  ybrenhin  .  ac 
yna  ycauas  yGein  goch  agan  y  vraGt  lyGelyn  oe  gGbyl  uod  cantref  lleyn  . 
YulGydyn  racGynep  gGyl  edGard  vrenhin  yrodes  edGard  vrenhin  ac  edmGnt 
yvraGt  [elianor  y]  kefnitherG  merch  fymGnt  [mGnford  y  lywelyn]  ar  drGs 
yr  eglGys  vaGr  ******  oet  crift  pann  uu  uarG  rickert  o  gaer  riG 
efgob  mynyG  duG  kalan  ebrill  .  ac  yny  le  yntev  yd  urdGyt  thomas  di  bee 
yn  efcop  .  YulGydyn  honno  y  bu  uarG  phylip  goch  y  trydyd  abat  ar  dec 
o  yftrat  fluragGedy  ef  y  bu  abat  nyt  amgen  enjaGn  leiff.  ac  yn  oes  liGnnG 
y  llofces  yvanachloc  .  (GGe)dy  hynny  nos  Gyl  veir  y  canhGylle  \_stc~\  y 
cant  thomas  efcob  niynvG  ofFeren  yn  yftrat  flur  a  honno  au  yr  ofl'eren 
gyntaf  agant  yn  yr  efcopaGt  .  a  dyG  gGyl  deGi  rac  Gynep  yd  eiftedaGd  yny 
gadeir  yn  eglGys  ^•}•n}G  .  YulGydyn  rac  Gynep  y  gorcfgynnaGd  dauid  ap 
gr'  gaftell  pennardlaacc  Gyl  feint  benet  abat  .  y  lladaGd  y  caftellGjr  oil 
(eithyr)  roller  clifort  arglGyd  y  caftell  ,  a  phaen  gamaes  [s/c]  y  rei  liynny 
a  delis  ac  a  garcharaGd  .  YulGydyn  [rac  Gynep  gGyl]  ueir  kyheded  y 
gorefgynnaGd  gr'  ap  [maredud  a  rys]  ap  maelgGn  dref  aber  yflGyth  [ac 
y  collalTunt  y  dref  ar  calt]ell  ac  a  diftryGaffant  {| 


MS.  19  =  Hen,  15.  THE  BRUTS.  Vellum;  8  x  5|  inches: 
155  folios  and  a  flyleaf  containing  an  analysis  of  contents  ;  double 
columns  (numbered  respectively  5-676)  having  46  lines  to  a  column, 
with  large  initials  in  red;  imperfect;  retraced  and  badly  gall-stained 
in    parts  ;  circa  1400  ;  in  old  leather  binding  with  oak  boards. 

The  text  of  this  MS.  is  apparently  a  direct  transcript  of  that  part  of  the  Red  Book 
of  Hergest  which  was  printed  under  the  title  of  Brnts  (Oxford,  1890). 


342  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   19-20. 

Cols.  1-66.  Dares  Phryoivs.  Cols.  1-4  are  missing,  but  the 
text  is   supplied  in  a  xvith   century  hand  and   begins  :  Peleas  a  oedd 

ynghaftell  a  elwit  pelopeus  a  brawd   oedd  iddaw  a  clwit  Efon 

ends :  Ac  ygyt  ac  elenus  uab  priaf  .  ac  ecuba  .  achafandra  .  ac  andro- 
maeca  .  Deucant  atheirmil  .  Ac  ueHy  y  teruyna  yftorya  dared. 

Cols.  67-441.  YsTORiA  Brenhined  Y  Beytanyeit.  Cols.  157-160, 
193-1S6,  317-356  are  missing.  The  text  begins:  Bnytaen  oreu  or 
ynyffed  yr  honn   aelwit  gynt  y  wenn  ynys  yggorHewinaOl  eigya6n  .  y 

r6g  freingk  .  ac  ^werdon ends :  Ac  eiffyoes  kywreinyach  y 

g6neynt  y  faeffon  gan  gadO  eu  duundeb  a  thagnefed  y  rygthunt  .  ac  yn 
di-whyiiyaO  y  tired  .  ac  yn  adeilyat  y  dinalToed  iar  keftyft  ...... 

The  few  remaining  lines  are  gall-stained  so  badly  as  to  be  almost  illegiblii.  Col. 
442  was  left  blau'c  for  the  usu^l  colophon,  which,  however,  was  never  inserted  by  the 
scribe.     John  Jones  of  Gelli  lyv-dy  wrote  on  this  blank  space  in  1635. 

Columns  44-3-665.  Brvtt  r  7'YwrssoGiON :  Petwar  ugeint  mlyned 
a  ehwechant  oed  oet  crilt  pan  vu  y  varOolyaeth  uaOr  dr6y  holl  ynys 

brydein ends :  ar  dyd  h6nn6  y  gorefgyna6d  rys  uab  maelgOn 

gantref  penwedic  .  a  gruffud  uab  maredud  gym6t  meuenyd. 

Cols.  653-660  are  wanting,  but  the  text  of  the  lacuna  is  supplied  in  print. 

Dwyededic  y6  hyi  hyn  .  o  vrutly  tywyffogyon  .  o  vrutt  y  faefon  rac  lla6. 

Cols.  665,   1.    9-676 :   ||  G6edy  kadwa6dyr  vendigeit    .   agorefgyn  or 

faeffon  ynysbrydeiu ends:  Yna  y  dywaOt  dwnftan  an6ybo  || 

See  Bruts,  p.  392, 1.  20. 


MS.  20  =  Hen.  51.  Biblical  History,  Brut  y  Tywyssogion, 
Kytoesi  Myedin  a  Gwendyb,  and  a  Welsh  Grammar.  Vellum ; 
8f  X  5§  inches  ;  xvth  century ;  pp.  1-350  ;  bound  in  leather. 

This  MS.  is  much  s'ained  in  parts,  and  the  writing  has  been  retraced  in  many 
places.  The  Kyvoesi  and  the  continuation  of  the  Brut  are  in  hands  differing 
from  the  rest  of  the  MS.  and  from  one  another.  The  folios  paged  101-2,  161-2,  are 
torn  and  defective,  and  there  is  a  lucuna  after  page  70  (a.d.  900-940). 

A  label  on  the  front  cover  bears  the  number  "  18,"  and  inside  is  the  book-plate  of 
"R.  W"""  Vaughan,  Hengwrt."  There  are  memoranda  on  the  margins  of  pages 
104-5,  138,  144,  and  on  p.  298  we  have  the  date  of  1.'540. 

1  Biblical  history  from  Adam  to  Peter  and  Paul  preaching  at 
Rome.  Page  1  is  so  rubbed  and  stained  as  to  be  illegible,  and  page  2  is 
not  much  better.  For  the  beginning  of  the  text,  see  Pen.  MS.  253  = 
Hen.  441  :  Yn  gyntaf  i  greawdd  diiw  nef  a  llawr  y  ddayar  oedd  heb 
ilrwyth  yn  wac  a  thywyllwch  ar  v/yneb  y  dyfwr  ac  ysbrydoliaeth  yr  ar- 
glwydd  a  ddygid  ar  y  dyfroedd  &c.  There  are  nsferences  to  Josephus  in  the 
course  of  the  narrative.  Page  3  begins :  ac  ef  a  vv  gof  aryfgwthyr  mwyneu 
ac  -wrth  fein  y  yrd  ef  y  digrifhaawd  iubal  ac  wrth  hyny  y  dychmygawd 
ynteu  keluydyt  mufic  .  deg  mlyned  ar  hugein  oed  oet  adaf  pan  anet  idaw 
mab  arall  a  elwit  abel  &c.  ends :  paul  eboflol  a  barnabas  a  wahanawd 
yr  yfpryt  glan  wynt  y  antiochia  y  dryded  viwydyn  ar  dec  o  diodef  krilt 
ac  odyno  y  doethant  y  bregethu  y  gaervffalem  at  pedyr  a  yago  y 
vlwyddyn  rac  wyneb  ac  odyno  y  doethant  y  ruvein  yn  y  lie  y  diodefawd 
pedyr  a  phawl  yr  un  dyd  y  dan  nero. 

62  Noe  hen  wedy  dilyw  a  gorSbwys  y  log anuon  y  vran  o 

honavi'  ya  gennat  y  geiffiaw  tir  &c.  &c.  end  lost. 

65  Betjt  y  Tywysogion  :  This  text  is  apparently  based  on  that  of 
Mostyn  MS.  116,  but  the  wording  is  changed  more  or  less  throughout. 
It  contains  certain  paragraphs  omitted  in  the  Red  Book  of  Her g est 
with  which,  hov\'ever,  the  wording,  in  more  than  one  instance,  agrees 


BfeUT   Y  TYWysSOGION   ETC.  343 

moi'e  nearly  than  with  Moslyn  MS.  116.  It  sometimes  differs  from 
both,  as  for  example  :  Trugein  mlyneq,  ac  wyth  gant  oeq,  oed  krift  pan 
W  varw  maellalacheu  .  dwy  vlyneq,  wedy  hyny  y  gwrthlaq,wyd  kad- 
weithen  [sic]  .  dwy  vlyneq,  wedy  hyny  y  diffeithyawq,  hono  y  glynyflie  . 
Blwyq,yn  wedy  hyny  y  bu  varw  kynan  nawq,  niuer  *  (p.  69,  col.  n.) 

The  most  noticeable  difference  in  the  text  occurs  in  the  passage 
summarising  the  virtues  of  the  Lord  B.hys,  after  his  death  in  1197,  and 
where  50  lines  in  Latin  verse  are  inserted. 

Nobile  cambrenfis  cecidit  dyadema  deeoris 

Hoc  est  refus  obit  cambria  tota  gemit     .... 

wallia  iam  viduata  dolet  ruitura  dolore 

The  following  continuation  in  three  different  hands  of  a  later  date  is 
interesting,  and  as  it  has  never  been  printed  before  it  is  appended  here. 
The  text  follows  the  words  "  kymwt  mevenyd."  fSee  Bruts,  p.  384. 

292  Dyw  ful  y  blodeu  y  torref  rwg  Sewelyn  ap  grufud  ac  edward 
brenhin  ftoigyr  .  ar  kanhaiaf  gWedy  henne  y  doeth  y  brenhyn  ay  In  hyt 
en  rudlara  ac  ex-  anvones  fiynges  hyt  en  mon  a  howel  ap  grufud  ap 
edneved  en  dywilauc  en  ev  blaen  ac  wynt  a  gorefgynaflant  von  .  ac  a 
vanaffant  gorefgin  arvon  ac  ena  y  gwuaethpwyd  y  bont  ar  venei  ac  y 
torres  y  bont  o  tra  llwith  ac  y  bodes  aneirif  or  faeffon  ac  ereill  a  las  ac 
ena  y  gwnaethpwyd  brat  Hiwelj'n  ene  clochte  en  mangor  y  gan  y  wyr 
ef  e  hvn  .  ac  ena  er  edewyf  ftiwelyn  ap  Gruf  dauid  y  vraud  en  gwarch- 
adw  Gwyned  .  ac  entev  ef  a  liaeth  ae  lu  y  gorefgyn  powys  a  buellt 
ac  ef  a  gorefgynaud  hyt  en  llann  gaenten  ac  o  dena  ef  a  anvonef  y  wyr 
■  ay  diftein  y  gymmryd  gwrogaeth  [col.  i.]  gwyr  brecheinyauc  ac  adaw 
y  tywilTaue  a  bychydic  o  wyr  gyd  ac  ef  .  ac  ena  y  doeth  Eoffer 
mortymyr  a  Grufud  ap  gwennwynwyn  a  llu  er  brejihyn  gantwynt  en 
direbud  am  ev  penn  ac  ena  y  lias  Hywelyn  ay  orevgwyr  .  dyw  damafius 
bap  pethewnos  or  vn  dyd  kyn  dyw  Nodolic  a  dyw  gwener  oed  y  dyd 
hOnnw  .  Bhvydyn  neffaf  y  honno  y  dechrewt  caltell  aber  Conwi  ar  bew 
mareif .  a  ehaerenarvon  .  a  hardlech  .  ar  pymed  dyd  diwethaf  o  vif 
ebrill  y  ganet  Edward  caerenarvcnj  ar  haf  h6nnw  y  gorelgS^nnavd  y 
brenhyn  hoU  wj'ned  .  ac  y  daelh  danid  ap  grufud  ar  herw  .  ac  y 
kymmyrth  y  brenhyn  gwiftlon  o  wyned  .  ar  canhayaf  gwedj'  henne 
y  delijd  dauid  ap  grufud  ac  Oweyn  y  vab  ac  y  ducpwyd  wynt  hyt  en 
Eudelan  ygharchar  ac  odena  y  ducpwyd  wjmt  hyt  en  amwilhic  ac  eno 
[293]  y  dihenydwyd  dauid  ap  grufud  ac  y  ducpwyt  oweyn  y  garchar 
hyt  en  1  brultow  .  Bluydyn  gwedy  hynnyj  y  gwnaeth  y  bj-en  |  feir  en 
moil  y  widva  .  ac  y  peris  gwneythur  torneymant  en  nevyn  en  ftyn  ac 
odena  y  daetli  y  brenhyn  en  oravvenvs  hyuryd  tu  a  lloigyr  tro  vwdu- 
goliaeth  .  Gwedj'  henne  y  bu  pedeir  blyned  en  hedwch  waltat  ar  vu 
tn  heb  allel  dwyn  dym  ar  gof  eu  hyt  henne  .  Bhiydyn  gwedy  henne  y 
torres  rug  brenhyn  ftoigyr  a  Eys  ap  Moredud  arglwyd  y  drwfhvyn 
ac  ena  y  doeth  Itu  or  brenhyn  o  gemre  ac  o  loygyr  am  ben  y  dryfl'lwyn 
ac  ena  y  bodes  ]fhon  penlard  tywyffauc  gwyr  gwyned  ac  or  diwet 
drwy  hir  emlad  wynt  a  gawfiant  y  caftell  a  gurru  rys  ap  Moredud  ar 
herw. 

1290  [D]Eg  mlyned  a  phaT^ar  [sic]  vgeynt  a  deu  cant  a  mil  oed  oeit 
•crift  pan  [col.  6.]  pan  deholed  er  Jdeon  o  dyrnaf  loygyr  .  eny  vlwydyn 
honno  y  delijt  Rys  ap  Xvloredud  enghoet  mallhayn  drwy  dwill  y  wyr 
et  e  hvnn. 

1291  Anno  .  i°  .  y  bu  varw  Bevys  de  Clar  braut  Gilbard  ^arll  Clar 
gorev  perlon  en  lloygyr  oed  a  chyuoethocka. 

*  Compare  The  Bkuis,  p.  2.59,  U.  29-31.     Rolls  edition,  p.  14,  U.  1-7. 
t  The  words  "  j  ffanet  Edward  caernarTon  "  have  been  cancelled  in  the  text  and 
written  in  the  margin  opposite  the  p'aoe  marked  {  in  the  foUowiDg  year. 


344!  PENIAETH   MANUSCillPT    20. 

1292  Anno  .  ij  .  y  ou  varw  Eynnon  efcop  Han  Elwy  y  brand  du 
o  nannev  y  gelwyd  ef  .  a  gorev  gwr  oed  achadarnaf  en  kyunal  y  efcobot 
orawelef  neb  .on  y  vlsvydyn  honno  ydetholet  Hiwelyn  vab  ffiwelyn  ab 
Enyr  en  efcop  y  H.'in  Elwy. 

1293  Anno  .  iij  .  y  llai"  Geffrey  clement  vftvs  debeubarth  eny 
Guvriw  em  buellt  .  ac  y  torres  rwg  kymre  a  faefon  y  gwyl  vibangel 
hCmnw  .  ao  y  bv  kynan  ap  Moredud  .  A  Maylgwn  ap  Eys  .  en  bennaf 
[294]  ar  debeubarth  .  a  madawo  ap  Hywelyn  ap  Moredud  ar  wyned  . 
A  Morgant  aj)  Moredud  ar  Morgannwc. 

1294  Anco  .  iiij  .  y  doeth  edward  brenhyn  lloygyr  a  Hu  maur  y 
gemre  ac  y  gorefgynnawt  kemre  .  ac  y  delyit  Madawc  ap  Hywelyn  ay 
vab  .  ac  y  delijt  kynan  j'n  benford  ac  y  dihenydwyt  ef .  ac  en  amfe'r 
bwnnw  er  oed  gwyr  prydyn  a  gwyr  flandrys  en  ryuelu  ar  loigyr. 

1295  Anno  .  v  .  yd  aetli  y  brenhyn  ay  lu  y  daryftwg  prydyn  .  ac  v 
delijt  fyre  ^ohn  baylol  brenhyn  Prydyn  ay  vab  .  ac  y  diholat  ef  or  eny's 
honn. 

1296  Anno  .  vj  .  yd  aeth  y  brenhyn  ay  lu  y  daryftwg  flandrys  ac  y 
tagnavedwyt  ■5\'\-ut. 

1297  Anno  .  \i]  .  y  bu  varw  Gylbard  Jarli  iclar  .  )'  gwr  bonbedickaf 
or  faefon  achadarnaf. 

1298  Anno  .  viij  .  y  bu  Hadva  vawr  eny  foch  kjrc  em  brydyn  or 
yfcottyeyt  .  ac  y  kochas  er  heul  y  dyd  h6nnw  en  dechrev  kanhaif. 

1299  Anno  .  ix. 

1300  Anno  dni.  M°.  ccc°.  y  bu  varw  ]feuwan  ^arft  warant  [=Warren]. 

1301  Anno  .  i°.  y  bu  varw  pap  ruueyn  ac  ykarcharwyd  y  cardinalieit 
em  perwf  en  hir  am  na  detholeint  pap  .  WiBi'am  waleis. 

Hufgwyd  I  [«/c]. 


1302  Anno 

•  ii  • 

Anno 

.  111. 

Anno 

.  nil 

Anno 

,  V. 

1306  Anno  , 

.  VI 

1307  Anno  . 

VIl 

,  y  torref  rwg  gwyr  prydyn  a  brenhj'n  Hoj'gS'r, 
.  yd  aeth  Edward  brenhyn  [295J  Hoygyr  y  daryftwg 
prydyn  .  ac  en  dyuot  odeno  en  y  dref  a  elwyd  bwrch  ope*  fandes  y  bu 
varw  yr  arderchawc  vrenhyn  .  y  feithuet  dyd  o  J\i\itts  :  En  er  vn 
vlwydyn  dyvv  gwyl  Mathsv  apoftol  .  vi  .  kalan  y  Marcij  .  y  coronhawt 
Edward  kaer  yn  arvon  y  vab  entev. 

1308  Anno     viij  .  y  dechreuawd  Peryf  o  Gauefton  ftywiaw  y  vrru- 
hiiiyaetb  vrth  y  ewvHj's  ef  .  a  drwc  vv  gan  y  tywyfogion  ereyit  hynny. 
Anno  .  ix. 
Anno  dni  .  M  .  cccx. 

1311  Anno  i  .  y  ganet  edward  trydyd. 

1312  Anno  .  ii  .  v  Ssif  Perif  Gauefton  dyw  gwil  feynt  Geruafii  & 
pro[295,  col.  i.]thalii  en  emyl  vrarwic  gwedy  y  dwyllaw  or  kaftel  .  allan. 

1313  Anno  .  iij  .  y  bu  varw  ftywelyn  efcob  Ban  elwy  .  ac  y  detbolet 
Dauid  ap  bledyn  en  y  le  .  nof  wyl  feuwan  banner  haf  .  ar  dyd  hwnnw 
y  bu  y  kyfranc  en  y  j  poHes  ac  y  Bas  Gilbert  ieuwanc  ^arli  Clar  a  Sawer 
o  wyr  ftoigyr  gyd  a  hj'nny  .  y  gan  y  fcottieit  ac  y  foaf  brenhyn  Hoigyr 
en  gywiludiis  or  kyfranc  hwnw. 

1314  Anno  .  iiij  .  y  gyffegrwyd  dauid  efcop  Han  elwy. 
Anno  .  v. 

Anno  .  vj, 

1317  Anno  .  vij  .  y  bu  ryuel  fiywelyn  bren. 

1318  Anno  .  viij  .  y  delijt  Hywely  bren. 

1319  [296]  Anno  .  ix  .  y  bu  anyvndeb  rwg  y  brenhyn  ar  barwnyeit. 


*  "ope"  seems  to  bo  a  scribal  error  for  "  one"  =  "  on  "  in  both  the  instances 
above. 


CONTINUATION    OP   BRUT    Y   TYWrSSOGIOK.  345 

1320  Anno  dn'i  M°  .  ccC  .  xx  .  y  doeth  y  barwnyeit  en  Hawn  arvawc 
er  kwnl'li  y  lundeynac  y  meneflynt  dala  y  brenhyn  a  lyre  liywe  ^euwaiig. 
Onyd  en  ffeiley  ef  ftythyrev  y  barwnyoit  .  Ac  entev  a  wylawd  ac  a 
■wnaetli  ev  ewyllyf. 

1321  Anno  .  i°  .  y  doeih  y  vcenhines  y  gafccH  ledif  ac  yne  y  Hudwyd 
by  y  meOn  .  ac  y  kwynawt  wrth  y  brenhyn  .  ac  am  hynny  y  dechrewawd 
y  ryvel  rvvg  y  barwueyd  ar  brenhyn  .  Ac  yna  yd  anvo[296,  col.  6.]nes 
y  brenhyn  Hu  am  ben  y  cafteft  yw  dlua  ac  erchi  dala  Syre  Birtholomeus 
o  bad|defmere  .  kanys   ef  bioed  y  caftell  hwnw  .  Ac  yno  yd  aetli  y  bar- 
wnyeit am  ben  kyuoeth  fire  hyw  ac  y  gorefgynaflant  hoii  Moiganwc  . 
a  gwedy  menegy  er  brenhyn    hynny  of  a  doeth   liyt  en  amwythic   y 
nodolic  hwnw  .  ac  yno  y  doeth  y  roflericyt  en  ewytiys  y  brewhyn  ,  ac 
y  dvrcpwyt  wj'nt  engharcbar   er  twr  gsvyn  en  ftvndeyn  .  ac  y  doyfch  y 
ijrenhyn  a  Hu  gwyned  ganthaw  hyt  yn  henfford  ac  yno  y  bu  gwyl  veiv 
fawn  freyt  .  ar  barw[2&7]n3'eit  ac  ev   ftu  wynthew  en  gaer  lowy  .  A 
gwe.ly  hynny  byehydic  y  Holgaf  y  barwnyeit  brugges  .  Ac   odeno   yd 
aethantbyt  bvvrtwnn  ope*  trente  ac  yno  y  gwalgarwyt  wynth  [iic']  .  ac 
odeno  y  doethant  hyt  em  borbrig  ac  yno  y  doeth  Sii'c  Andrew  o  harkley 
a  lludyas  y  hont  ydjwynt  ac   yno  y   iiaffarS  henffort  .  ac  y  delijt  ^arlt 
lonkalter  ac    y  ducpwyt  er    pwmfreit    e\v    galteit    ehvn    encharchar    y 
brenhyn  .  ac  yno  y  Itas  y  ben  dyw  Hvn  tranoeth  y  dyw  gwyl  benet  abat 
en  er  un  vlwydyn. 

1322  Anno  .  ij  .  er  ymlidwyt  y  bai'wnyeit  em  pop  He  ac  y  delijt  y 
klyfford  .  Mwbray  .  Tyeis  .  baudelmere  .  a  itanwer  o  rey  ereill  .  ac  y  ttat 
ac  y  ftulgwyd  ac  y  kroget  .  ac  ereyit  a  garcharwyd  .  er  awdeley  ar 
berkeleieit  a  tiawer  ereitt  a  garcharwyt. 

1323  Anno  .  u\  .  yperyl"  lire  hywe  kall'au  y  vrenhynel"  ay  rody  ar 
lyvrey  .  ac  y  bu  ryuel  en  wal'gwyn  ar  y  b^-enhyn  y  vlwydyn  bono  . 

1324  Anno  .  iiij  .  y  detholed  farll  warant  y  vynet  en  dwylTauc  ftu  y 
wafgwyn  .  ac  er  aeth  entew  gwedy  gwyl  iaut  freit  hyt  em  bordeos  ae  lu. 

1325  [298]  Anno  .  v.  y  daeth  y  breuhynef  ac  edward  y  mab  a  Jaritis 
warant  hyt  em  barif  en  ganyhadev  y  gan  vrenhyn  ftoegyr  at  brenhyn 
freync  .  ar  nodolic  honno  y  doeth  Jarll  warawt  [  =  Warren]  o  vordeos. 

1326  Anno  .  vi.  difiew  neffaf  gwedi  dyw  gwyl  Mihangel  y  doeth  y 
brenhynef .  ay  mab  .  a  ^arl  kent  .  a  roller  mortymer  .  a  brawd  Jarlt 
hynawt  y  dir  lloigyr  en  leynt  Edniuredel'  bm-ie  .  ac  odena  kyrchn 
ftvndeyn  a  wiiaethant  .  ac  y  doeth  y  brenhyn  tu  a  Morgannwc  .  a  dyw 
gwyl  luc  euegylywr  y  delist  jfarft  arondel  gan  vordeileit  amwithic  en  y 
vanachloc  .  [298,  col.  6.]  dyw  lul  neffaf  kyn  gwil  leynt  Syraond  a  ^ude  y 
foafy  brenhyn  a  lire  hyw  ieuvy-ang  drwy  hafren  y  vorganwc  o  vrulte  .  ac 
ynoy  delijt  lire  hyw  hen  ac  y  ftulgwyt  ef .  Athrannoeth  y  dyw  gwil  leynt 
edmuwde  archel'cop  y  llaf  jfarl  arvvndel  en  henford  .  a  thranoeth  y  dyw 
gwil  leynt  Clement  p3,b  y  Uulgwit  lire  hyw  Jeuwang  .  a  Sym  redyges  en 
henfort  .  ac  y  ducpwyt  y  brenhyn  yn  garehai'awr  ganthwynt  .  a  dyw 
gwil  veir  fant  freit  neliiif  y  hyny  y  coronhawt  y  vab  en  vrenhyn  .  trydyt 
edward  oed  hOnnw  [299]  ac  yno  y  gwnaethpwit  y  gyuathraeli  rygthaw 
a  merch  ^arl  hynawd. 

1327  Anno  .  vij  .  yd  aeth  dywylVogyon  ftoygyr  hyt  en  ^orck'  gwedy 
gwyl  Gregor  bap  en  erbyn  er  yigottyeyt  ac  ni  frwithawt  haiach. 

1328  Anno  .  viij  .  en  gylch  y  gvvyl  bedyr  en  dechreu  y  kanhayaf  y 
gwnaethpwyt  tagneued  rwg  ftoygyr  a  phrydyn  .  ac  y  rodet  merch  brenhyn 
ftoygyr  y  vab  brenhyn  prydyn  .  en  y  vlwydyn  bono  y  peryf  roller 
mortymer  goflbt   kwuUi   en    falifburie    en  gylch  kalan    gayaf  .  ac   y 

*  tjee  footnote  ou  preceding  page, 
e     98430.  D 


346  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    20. 

maneflynt  Had  farS  lonkafter  .  ac  ymbleydyaw  yn  gadarn  o  bop  tu  .  ao- 
[299,  col.  6.]rugaDt  .  adyuot  byt  engbaerOraiigon  y  nodolic  honno  .  ac 
en  gylch  gwyl  bawl  aboftol  y  tagnaueddwyt  wynt  en  leycefter  .  a  gwedy 
gvryl  veir  fan  freit  y  goruu  ar  bordeifeit  Hundeyn  rei  prynv  ev  mynyglev 
ereill  ev  krogy  .  am  nerthau  ifai-ft  long  kalter. 

1329  Anno  .  ix  .  y  goruu  ar  bvenhyn  tioigyr  mynet  y  freync  yw 
wneithur  gwriogaeth  y  vrenbyn  freinc  .  ae  y  trigawd  Jarll  warant  en 
douer  ev  arof  .  a  roffer  raortimer  .  ar  vrenhyaes  en  geynt  .  en  y  vhvydya 
honno  y  golTodet  y  torneyment  en  dvvnltapyl  .  en  y  vlwydyn  honno 
gwedy  gw^yl  Gregor  bap  y  gwnaeihpwyt  kwnlli  en  Hvndeyn  ac  y  doeth 
lu'e  Edmurad  de  wodeftoc  yr  kwnlli  .  ac  y  perys  Eofler  mortimer  y  dala 
a  Had  y  ben  dyw  Hvn  trannoeth  y  dyw  gwyl  feynt  Edward  vrenhyn  a 
mcrthyr  .  heb  wir  heb  vrawd  yny  byd  .  a  thrannoeth  y  Haf  y  varchawc 
vrdawl  fire  Rawf  de  hermer  .  ac  ereill  Hawer  a  foaffant  or  wlad  .  pan 
welfant  na  pherchyt  gwr  kyfurd  a  ^farl  keynt  ac  yn  ewythyr  y  brenhyn 
brau'd  y  dad  .  ac  en  gar  agof  yr  vrenhynef  hen. 

1330  Anno  dhi.  m.  ccc.  sxx  .  y  ganet  mab  y  Edward  trydyt  en  wodeftoc 
en  kylch  kalan  mey  .  en  y  vlwydyn  honno  y  bu  varw  Hywelyn  ap  bona 
archdiagon  Han  elwy  .  gwedy  gwyl  ^euwaw  .  banner  haf .  y  vlwydyn  honno 
y  duawd  traen  yr  heul  dyw  Mp.wrth  dyw  gwyl  feyn  kenelmi  vrenbyn  . 
en  y  vlwydyn  honno  y  delijt  Roffer  mortymer  yn  Notigham  dyw  gwyl 
luc  y  nof  ac  y  ducpwyd  hyt  en  Hundeyn  ac  yno  y  dyhenydwyt  ef  nef 
wyl  andras  .  a  dyw  gwyl  feynt  kateryn  kyn  no  hynny  y  bu  y  gwynt 
mawr  [301]  y  ffyrthawt  klochty  Gwrexhain  .  ac  vn  nof  kyn  nof  nodolic 
y  bu  gwynt  mawr  .  a  thradwy  y  dyw  nodolic  .  y  vlwydyn  y  doeth  y 
dymmeftyl  drwc  heb  adel  yr  hyt  aduedu  yny  doeth  y  gayaf  .  ac  y  bu 
Sawer  heb  vedi  byth  .  yn  y  vlwydyn  honno  gwedy  y  nodolic  y  rodet  y 
vab  ^arH  arwndel  y  dylehet. 

1331  Anno  .  ]  .  ynchilch  kalanmei  y  fymudwyd  en  wrexham  y 
varchnad  a  oed  gynt  ar  dywful  y  fyraudaw  ar  difieu  o  hynny  aHan  .  yn 
y  vlwydyn  honno  y  kanhayaf  y  meffurrwyd  kyntaf  He  dinaf  en  bryn 
eglwis  [301,  col.  6.]  en  Jal  .  en  y  vlwydyn  honno  y  gyffoded  oed  ymwan 
gwyl  vihagel  en  chepp  en  Hvndein  .  yn  y  vlwydyn  bono  y  bn  veirw 
Uawer  o  wyrda  kemre  G-ronw  ap  tudyr  o  von  .  A  thudyr  ap  Adaf 
archdiagon  Meirionnyd  a  Madawc  ap  Hywelyn  y  gwr  gorew  erioed 
a  vv  y  Maelor  gymraec  .  nos  wyl  Mathias  apoftel  diwet  Mis  chwef (rawr) 
ac  y  kladpwyd  eny  eglwys  ehvn  en  gref  ford. 

1332  Anno  .  i]  .  gwedy  kalanmei  y  kat  corf  harald  brenhyn  lloigyr 
yn  eglvvyf  ^euan  yn  gaer  Reon  gwedy  [302]  y  gladu  mwy  no  dev  cant 
Mlyued  kyn  no  hynny  .  Ac  y  kat  y  gorf  ay  goron  ay  diHat  ay  hoffanev 
Uedyr  .  Ay  yfpardunev  evreit .  kyn  gyuaet  ac  yn  gyftal  ev  harroglev 
ar  dyd  y  cladpwyt  wynt .  En  yr  vn  vlwydyn  yn  gilch  gwil  vihangel 
ydaeth  edward  de  ba'ilol  a  bychydic  lu  git  ac  ef  y  geisiaO  goresgyn 
prydyn. 

802  (col.  b.)  Kyvoesi  Myrdtin  a  Gweniiyd.  This  version  foUows 
pretty  closely  the  text  in  the  Red  Book  of  Her g est  (cols.  577-583)  as 
far  as  the  stanzas  i-eferring  to  Owein,  M'here  fresh  matter  is  inserted. 
The  text  thereafter  is  so  rubbed  in  part  as  to  be  scarcely  legible,  but 
it  is  clear  that  this  version  was  about  a  third  shorter  than  its  prototype. 
The  text  begins : 

Doethum  y  a  tatt  y  y  adrawd  &c.  and  the  legible  part  ends  : 

Merdin  dec  dawn  glot  damwein 

troit  y  gwynt  odwyrein 

pwy  a  wledych  wedy  ywein. 


GEOFFRIIY'S  BK0T-,  &  THEOLOGICAL  TRACTS.  347 

Taleithiawc  vrenin  a  daw 

ay  voned  o  aberffraw 

a  vyd  dvvy  vylyned  devnaw*     .     .     . 

biat  gwr  ef  a  gwyr  ydawf  &c. 

305  Welsh  Grammar.  This  is  one  of  the  many  recensions  of  the 
Red  Booh  text.  The  arrangement  is  slightly  altered  and  the  wording 
more  or  less  throughout :  some  of  the  stanzas  illustrative  of  the  metres 
are  also  different.  The  MS.  ends  with  "  Trioed  kerd,"  but  as  pages 
3i9-350  are  illegible  it  is  not  possible  to  say  whether  the  text  is 
<;omplete:  Pedeir  ftythyren  ar  hugeint  kymraec  yfiyd  nyt  amgeu  a.  b. 
«.  Ac,  &c. 


MS,  21  =  Hen.  50,  numbered  "16"  previously.  Brut  y  Bren- 
HiNED  and  Theology.  Vellum;  9|x6^  inches;  41  folios — imperfect 
at  the  beginning,  middle,  and  end;  ?  first  half  of  the  xivth  century — 
by  the  same  hand  as  the  second  part  of  MS.  7  ;  unbound. 

"  Charehe  wyche  a  bye  yr  lewyr  hwn "  in  a  xvilh  century  hand  at  foot  of 
fol.  22.  The  shield  and  armsi  of  Llywelyn,  of  the  Earl  of  Chester,  &c.  are  drawn  at 
foot  offol.  386. 

Folios  1-396  contain  a  version  of  GeofErey  of  Monmouth's  Historia 
■which  does  not  agree  verbally  wilh  that  in  any  other  MS.  that  is  older. 
The  text  begins :  %  \\  erchi  idaw  eu  hamdiifin  rac  bot  yn  reit  vdvnt  rodi 
jtyo  eiieu  bwyt  A  phan  giglev  vrutus  hynny  govalv  amedlyaw  aorvc  am 
■ev  hamdiffin  ac  yny  diwed  y  kavaf  yny  gynghor  dwyn  kyrch  nos  am 
benn  gwyr  groec  ac  ev  keiffiaw  velly  wynt  yn  diarvot  acheilliaw 
iwyllaw  ev  gwylwyr  ac  ev  gwerflylltyev  .  Sef  ykavaf  hritus  yn  y  gynhor 
galw  ataw  anakletiji  ketymdeith  antigonw.?  brawt  y  brehin  athynnv 
kledyf  ady wedut  wrthaw  yny  mod  hwnn  ygeiriev  hynn. 

O  dyd  waf  ievang  llyma  dervynv  dyvvched  di  ac  antigonw.?  arkledyf 
liwnn  yn   dianot  ylladaf  i  yvvch  deu  benn  chwi  ony  wnei  di  yn  gywir 

ifydlawn  hynn  aarchaf  i ends  .•  §  A  ffan  wybv  vreint  hyny 

mynet  aoruc  ef  odyno  hyt  yngkaer  exon  Adyvyiinv  ataw  yno  llawer  or 
britanyeit  achadarnhaev  y  dinaf  ar  gaer  amenegi  vdvnt  Had  ohonaw 
■ef  ydewin  Ac  yndiannot  anvon  kenuat  argatwallawra  ydywedut  idaw 
ydamwein  ac  y  bob  lie  oil  drofwynep  yrynyf  or  yd  oed  ybntanyeit  ef 
aanvonef  attadvnt  ydamwein  hwiiw  .  ac  erchi  vdvnt  vot  yn  gyweir 
o  arvev  ac  yn  dulivn  ydyvot  yn  erbyn  katwall'  pan  glywynt  ydyuot 
Ac  yna  || 

Part  II.^THEOLOGicAr,  and  other  Tracts. 

Fol.  40,     Much  rubbed  and  difficult  to  read — beginning  lost. 

-a.  Am  newyn. — Pam  nafkanyadaOd  du6  ydyn  gwedy  y  bwytaei 
vnweith  g  .  .  .  .  bot  heb  vwyt  wythnof  Newyn  yw  vn  o  boe  .  .  . 
pechot  &c. 

b.  am  diwed  {lioydyl  dyri). — A  oes  dervyn  ar  hoydyl  dyn  megys  na 
alio  vyw  ......  Ef  arodes  duw  y  bob  dyn  pa  hyt  y  dyly  vyw  &c. 

c.  am  boyneu  y  dynyon. — Ay  pechot poenedynyon  &c. 

d.  am  dyfc  y  ttieibion. — Pa  achaws  y  dyfc  meibion  ynwell  no  hen 
dynyon  Am  vot  eu  hineir  ynewyd  yndvnt  &e. 

*  The  text  is  retraced  here. 

t  Skene's  Four  Ancient  Books  of  Wales,  vol.  ii,  p.  228, 1.  3. 

i  Cf.  Bruts,  p.  46.  §   Ibid.  p.  247. 

D   2 


34,8  PENIAllTH   MANUSCRIPTS   21-22. 

e.  am  yr  yfgrythvr. — ends :  nyt  ocd  or  yfgrythi«r  onyt  yr  hyny 
aj'fgrivciiwyt  yveibion  duw  .  Ac  y  may  yr  eglwyf  yti  egori  vdvnt  pob 
peth  cayedic  drwy  egoryat  davyd  Ny  dichwn  ymeibion  hyny  hacen 
gwelet  na  dyall  odyallan  kanyf  carant  ac  nyf  kredant. 

Folio  406.  a.  am  engijlyon. — A  oes  egylyon  yn  cadw  ydynyon  .  Y 
bob  kenedyl  obob  dinas  y  may  engylyon  ynbennadvryeit  yn  llvnycthv  eu 
kyfreithieu  &c. 

b.  am  y  cliefyl — A  vyd  diefyl  yn  pregetbv  ydynyon  ynwaftat  Byd 
aneirif  onadvnt  ygkyveir  pob  gwyt  &c. 

c.  am  olew  {7  ar  anc/eu) — Beth  a  rymha  olew  yrdynyon  gwan  ,  Peth 

mawr  pechodeu  agyfEeffer  ac  ny -wneler  yr  eilweith  &c ends  r 

Pa  awr  bytinac  ydoto  pechadur  vcbeneit  ef  avyd  yach. 

Folio  41.  a.    am    anghev  —  Ygan   ba  beth   ydywedir    anghsu   vgan 
chwerwcd  neu  ygan  dameit  yr  aval  gwaredic  or  He  ydoeth  ano'heu. 
Athriryw  angheu  yflyd  .  angheu  anamferawl  .  .  .  anglieu  chwerw 
ac  anglieu  anyanawl  &c. 

b.  o  angev  y  rei  da — Ay  argywed  yrei  da  eu  Had  nea  eu  marvv 
oangheu  diffyvyt  &c 

c.  o  angheu  yrei  dricc — Ay  llefyrei  drwc  orwed  yii  hir  yneu  gwelyeu 
kynn  eu  marw    Na  lef  &c. 

d.  o gladedigaeth  yrei  da  arei  drwc — Ay  urwc  yrei  gwirion  nach|iioent 
eu  kladv  ygkyffegyr  .  Nac  ef  yr  holl  vyt  yflyd  demyl  yduw  &c. 

Folio  416. — a.  am  vynnedyant  y  lleng  ar  duw — Dywet  ym  pa  delw 
ygwneir  yngylch  yrei  da  avo  marw  .  Megys  y  daw  gwr  |  pwv'fae  aneirif 
luofogrwyd  varchogyon  ganthaw  ynerbyn  ywreic  bwyf  ac  y  dwc  ganthaw" 
gan  ganveu  nftewenyd  &c. 

b.  a7)i  baradwys — Ay  He  corfforawl  yw  paradwyf  siy  ym  pa  le  ymay 
nyt  He  corfforawl  ef  &c. 

c.  am  yrei  perffeith — A  dygir  yno  eneidieu  yreigwirion  .  Eneidieu 
yrei  perffeith  pan  ebont  oc  eu  corfForoed  adygir  yno  yny  lie.  &c, 

d.  am  yrei  amperffeith — Ac  ymay  yryw  dynyon  gwirion  adywedir 
o  vot  yn  amperffeith  &c, — end  lost. 


MS.  22  =  Hen.  318.  GEorrREv's  Historia  tecum  Bkitta>;ie 
and  the  Bkut  or  the  Saxons.  Vellum;  9  x  7|  inches  ;  pages  1-136, 
but  wanting  those  numbered  31-50,  65-88,  97-120,  127-130;  deeply 
gall-staiiied  in  parts,  and  a  few  folios  are  both  torn  at  the  corners  and 
iniured  by  mice;  written  in  1444by  liavid  ap  Meredith  Glais;  in  vellum 
covers. 

Pases  1-133,  1.  15,  contain  Geoffrey's  Brut  y  Brenhinedd,  which  is 
a  transcript  of  the  same  version  as  Pen.  MS.  45  (q.v.)  with  which  its 
openino-  and  closing  paragraphs  agree.  The  use  of  dd  and  -ion  is 
common;  the  change  of -ei- into -ai- &s  bai,  ff'rainc,  gicraic,  is  pretty 
frequent,  and  even  darllain,  liymaint,  &e.  occur  ;  i  is  often  used  indis- 
criminately for  the  preposition,  the  article,  the  possessive,  personal,  and 
even  relative  pronoun,  as  i  r6g  i  wyr,  lie  i  bai,  mal  i  bei,  o  bob  ff'ord  i 
nailer  i  chaffel,  yny  veint  honno  i  caraf  i  ti  and  pop  peth  i  hauas  yny 
ai/ahor.     The  plural  termination  -eu  is  kept  throughout. 

JBryttaen  oreu  or  ynyffoed  &c,,  as  in  the  Oxford  Bruts  (see  p.  40,  &c.), 
jind  ends  :  y  tywyilogyon  avvant  ar  y  kymry  guedy  hyuny  pob  eilwers 
a  Orchmynneis  i  Caradawc  o  Ian  carban  vyg  kyt  oelwr  ao  iJd[o]  idd 
edeweis  ddefnydd  i  ylcriueuu  o  liynny  allan  Brenhinedd  y  laellbn  y 
rei  a  ddoethant  ol  yn  ol  a  orchmynneis  i  wilim  o   walmyfbyr  a  lienri 


THE   BRUTS   OF   THE    KINGS    &   SAXONS.  349 

hontendelbn  atliewi  am  y  rei  kymry  ka-nyt  yttiw  gantiint  y  llyfyr 
kymraec  a  ymtlioel[aGd]  (Jwalltei'archddiagon  ryt  ychen  o  gyinraec  yn 
lladiii  yr  hwn  a  draetli[wys]  yn  wir  o  weithredoedd  y  racddywedcdigyou 
gymry  liyniiy  A  Iiyny  oil  a  [yni]choeles  iiiheii  o  gymraec  yn  Uadiu 
Ac  eilchwil  or  lladin  honno  ydd  ymchoeles  y  llyfyr  hwu  yn  gymraec 
Ac  velly  y  turayna  y  gweithret  hwn. 

IT^yma  ual  y  tencyna  yftoria  y  brenhinedd  hrytanieit  o  Grutus  hyl 
Catwalydyr  beiidigeit  yr  hon a  yfci iiienawdd  dauid ap  meicduth 
Glais. 
Pages  133,  1.  16-136,  contain  the  beginning  of  Bmt  y  Saesson  with 
the  following  rubric  : — 

TLyma  ual  i  dechreu  yftoria  brenhinedd  y  faeffon  a  ymchoelawdd 
y  racddywededic  dauid  o  Ladin  yn  gymraec  oet  crift  Mil.  CCCC. 
xliiij'' : — Gwedy  hynny  rannv  lloegyr  a  orugant  y  faeffon  yn  pvm  ran 
rygtunt  vii  onaddunt  a  gymerth  kent  yr  ail  a  gymerth  Effex  y 
trydydd  a  gymertli  M'thenerich  y  pedwerydd  or  parth  draw  i  humyr 
y  pvmhet  a  gymerth  Engle  ac  yn  ol  hwnnw  i  geilw  y  faeffon  loegyr  yn 
Engleont  Sef  yr  oedd  vrenhin  kent  o  vywn  i  allu  ef  archefcob  kaer 
geint  ac  Efcob  Roncestyr  ac  o  vywn  brenhinyaeth  Effex  yr  oedd  wilt- 
fchire,  Berchamfchire  dorcetyrfchir  Effexfchir  Southamptonfchir  a  holl 
Gerniw  a  dyfneint  Ac  o  vywn  y  vrenliinyaeth  honno  ydd  oedd  petwar 
Efgob  nyt  amgen  Efgob  Salyfburi  Efcnb  fdicia  y  rwn  aelwir  yr 
awrhon  Chiclieftyr  Efcob  kaer  wynt  ac  Efcob  ryt  ychen  ac  i  hwnnw  idd 

-oedd  ddwyeftedduay  naill  yn  lloegyr y  Hall  yn  keruiw ends  : 

A    Gwedy   marw    haerdeknvt   y    doeth    feint   Edward a 

j)hedeir  blynedd  ar  hugeynt  yteyrnaffawdd  ynddoeth  drwy  gywirdeb 
achyfiawnder  yn  geredic  gan  y  penadurieit  yn  vfydd  ir  tlodion  ac  yn 
wareddawc  ac"  yn  amddifynnwr  i  Eglwys  duw  clotuawr  oedd  ynteu 
mewn  mawredd  a  hwnnw  a  briodes  march  Edwin  iarll  kent  fef  oedd 
honno  teccaf  ac  ardderch  11  Cf.  MSS.  27  pt.  ii,  &  32  in/ra. 


MS.  23  =^  Hen.  313.*"  Geoffrey's  Liber  coronacioiiis  Britanorum, 
in  Welsh.  Vellum;  8J  X  Of  inches;  218  pages,  having  28  to  31  lines 
to  the  page  with  large  rubric  sectional  initials  and  coloured  illustrations 
of  the  kind's  mentioned  in  the  text  from  Eneas  to  Cadwaladyr  Vendigeit ; 
the  top  outside  corners  (including  part  of  the  text)  are  injured 
throughout  by  mice ;  late  xvth  j  century  (ef.  the  Mostyn  Grail  MS.)  ; 
bound  in  calf. 

"  Gruffinus  Davyes  eft  potfeffor  huiu*  libri  de  facto."     "  Lljfr  Robert  Vaughau 
or  Hengwrt," — both  entries  are  at  the  beginning  of  the  MS. 
"  Per  me  Hugh  ap  dd.  ap  gwillim  "  (p..  120). 

This  IMS.  is  evidently  a  transcript  of  Pen.  IMS.  21.  Exeas  gwedi 
ymladd  [troia]  a  diftriw  ygaer  ac  fga[ni]us  i  vab  gyd  ac  ef  addo[eth]ant 
ar  longeu  hyd  ywhid  a  elwir  yr  awr  honn  ytali  ac  aelwid  yna  yr  ei'dal  ac 
yn  yr  amfer  hwnnw  latinvs  oed  yn  vrenin  yn  yr  eidal  ar  gwr  hwnnw  a 
arvolles  eneas  yn  Uawen  .  a  phan  weles  tvr6n  vrenin  rvtul  hynny 
kynghorvynnv  aoruc  wrthaw  ac  ymlad  ac  ef  a  gorvod  aoruc  Eneas 
JSef  y  kavas  brutus  yn  eu   gyngor    galw    attaw    anacletus 

*  Numbered  17  previously. 

t  This  MS.  was  attribttted  to  the  xivth  century  in  the  Catalogue  of  the  Hengwrt 
MSS.,  but  such  forui.s  as  doydut,  geiriav,  eneldiav,  devaid,  wnelai,  kwynai,  ymaith, 
rryddid  are,  though  sporadic,  yet  far  too  common  to  malie  it  possible  to  date  the 
MS.  earlier  than  about  1450-75,  and  it  is  probably  as  late  as  1500. 

X  Cf.  first  extract  from  MS.  21  above. 


350  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS    23-25. 

kydymddaith  anticonius  athynnv  ygleddef  allaa  adywedit  wrtbaw  TaT 
hynn. 

O  dydi  was  ievang  Uyma  dervynv   dy  vychedd   di  ao  anticonius  ai- 
cleddef  hwnn   yii  ddianot  y  lladdaf  ych   dev  ben  chwi  ony  wnei  di  a 

archaf    i    yn    ftyd<llawn ends:  Ar   tywylTogion    kymry    aw 

wedy  hynny  yn   mediannv  hoU  gymry  bob  eihvers   val  y  tyfticlaytha. 
vftoria  yr  tywylTogion  .  Ac  velly  y  tervyna  yr  yftoria  honn. 
Explicit  liber  coronacwnis  Britanoram 

Ifte  liber  coufiat^the  rest  of  the  rubic  has   been  so  thickly  coated, 
with  gall  as  to  be  illegible. 


MS.  24  =  Hen.  175.  A  fragment  of  Bedt  v  Beenhined.  Vayer  j 
71  X  5 J  inches  ;  21  folios,  some  of  which  are  go  badly  stained  as  to  ba 
illegible — interleaved  throughout ;  copied  f ro.-u  an  imperfect  t«xt  19th 
day  of  November  1477  (fol.  11);  sewn,  with  an  old  missal  leaf  for 
covers. 

Tvdvr  Med  ap  Robt  ap  Jthell  ap  U'n  chwith  (fol.  66). 

Thomas  ap  John  .ip  liowell  j  pie  y  Uyfyr  (fol.  116). 

The  beginning  and  end  cannot  be  read,  but  the  foliowing  extract 
from  folio  lOb  wiil  indicate  tlie  version  to  wliich  it  belongs. 

Vdl  i/d'.ieth  maxen  rvvein  odema  .  Ac  era  peii  y  pym  blyned  > 
y  kyvodes  maxen  en  syberwyt  o  amylder  eur  ac  areaut  .  alithrei  atav 
bevnyd  o  darparv  llynges  dirvawr  .  /  a  chynnvllav  boll  gedernyt  enys- 
brydein  vrth  darysLvug  freinc  :  /  a  gvedy  e  vynet  tros  vor  kyntaf  .  edoeth 
y  ledav  er  honn  .  a  elwir  er  awr  honn  brytaen  vychan  .  /  a  deebrev 
distry6  e  bobyl  freinc  a  oed  endi  .  /  a  gvedy  emladar  freinc  .  a  himbald 
en  dywyssavc  arnunt  .  peryglv  ev  canmwyaf  .  a  chemryt  ev  f o  • .  • 
Nevr  digvydassei  ena  .  hagen  himbald  ev  tywyssavc  .  a  phymthengmil 
gyt  ac  ef  o  wyr  arvavc  .  ry  gynnvllassei  atav  a  bop  He  ene  gylch  :  /  a 
gvedy  cafEael  o  vaxen  c  veint  aerva  honno  onadunt  ,  yllawenhavs  en 
v.?.wr  Canys  dihev  oed  ganthav  ene  lladet  e  savl  honno  bot  en  havd  cael 
y  wlat  wedy  heune  :  /  ac  en  henne  .  galw  kenan  ataw  o  dieither  e 
torvoed  .  ac  emdidan  ac  ef  .  dan  chwerthin  val  hyn  :  /  lleman  hep  ef  .  vn 
or  brenhined  kyvoeihocaf  or  freinc  wedy  y  darystwng  val  e  mae  gobeith 
ynni  o  bavp  or  lleill  :  &c. 


MS.  25  =  Hen.  305.  Dahes  Phrygius  and  Brl't  y  Bhenhined. 
Paper ;'  8|  x  5^  inches ;  104  pages — imperfect  at  both  the  beginning 
and  end ;  in  three  different  hands  apparently,  the  earliest  being  about 
1500 ;  unbound. 

]^.R. — Final  d,  in  this  and  some  other  MSS.,  is  represented  by  a  looped  d,  with 
the  loop  extended  downward  as  if  di  were  written  without  lifting  up  the  pen.  This 
character  is  represented  by  d]  in  the  text  below. 

Y  llyfyr  hwn  yw  Uyfyr  lewys  Jones  cwstabyl  tre  esoob  (p.  29). 

Dares  Phrygiiis :  \\  Agamenion  a  elwis  attaw  bawb  or  brenhined 
ir  kwnsli  i  ymgyngor  am  y  vrwydyr  .  Menelaui  a  aunoges  ar  agamenion 
ar  gynnal  y  vrwydyr  ....  ends  :  Alexander  a  laddawd]  Palamedes  .  . 
Antilocii  .  Achel  .  ac  Aiax  i  gevynder  .  ac  Aiax  ai  lladdawd)  yntav  •; 

Page  14  Y  llyvyr  hwnn  a  elwir  y  brut  Kid  amgen  noc  ystoriaev 
brenhined)  ynys  Brydein  ai  henwav  or  kyntaf  hyd  y  diwaethaf  ■'.  ^ 

Pann  yt  oeddwn  yn  vynych  y  treiglaw  Meddyliav  o  bethav  lawer  y 
digwyddodj  ynystoriaev  brenhined]  ynys  brydein  .  ac  y  bu  ryved]  gelmyf 


BRUTS,   PROPHECIES  ETC.  351 

am  draethiat  Gildas  ,  a  Beda  mor  dowyll  ua  choffassanl  or  brenhinod 

a  TV  yn  ynys  brydain Ac  val  yr  yt  oeddwn  yn  ysmalhav  am 

hyiiy  i  rroddes  ym  Gwallder  archddiagon  rryt  ycben  :  llyvyr  kymraec  ac 
yntho  gweithredoed]  ynys  brydein  o  vruttw.?  y  brenin  kyntaf  or  brytanied 
hyt  ar  Gadwaladyr  up  kadwallawn  ap  kadvan  o  amadrawd]  hard]  wrth  i 
datkan  .  Ac  o  arch  yr  athro  hwmiw  kyt  gorffei  arnaf  gynvllaw  ystron- 
awl  o  arddav  ereill  .  Eisioes  om  koeddiawl  ethrylythr  am  priawd  biunav 
vy  hvn  j  troes  o  gymraec  yn  lladin  ac  i  trees  y  geiriav  ystronawl  anod] 
i  dyallt  yn  vyrr  [A]c  ■wrth  hyiiy  .  rrobertt  tywysawc  Caer  loyw 
kanorthwya  ym  y  gwethredoed]  hyii  j  vot  yn  gau  molwr  ym  i  ddyvot 
yn   Uwybraid]  o  ffynhonic  Gwallder  o  aber  mynnwy   o  ganmawl   dy 

ddoethineb  di Prydain  yw  henw  yr  orav  or  ynysoed)  aelwid 

gynt  Albyou ends :  Ac  yna  i  kymerth  emrys  y  goron  ac  i 

kavas  yn  i  gyngor  vynet  am  ben  Gorthiheyrn  tv  achymry  ac  wedi  i 
ddyvot  hyt  ynghymry  i  erging  kyrchu  kastell  gronwy  ar   ben  Mynyd] 

denarch  ar  Ian  gwy  avou  a  ddaw  o  vynydi  clorach Yna  j  due 

Eidol  ^arll  kaer  loyw  Hensiest  j  benu  -brynn  ac  yno  i  torret  i  benn  ai 
gladv  a  rroi  karncd)  arno  val  i  gwnaid  am  || 


MS.  26  =  Hen.  LS3.  Pkophecjes,  Astronomy,  Poetry,  &c.  in 
Latin,  English,  and  Welsh.  Paper  and  Vellum ;  8  x  5|  inches ; 
132  pages — imperfect  at  beginning,  middle  and  end,  and  some  leaves 
are  partly  illegible  from  damp  ;  written  for  the  most  part  about  the 
year  1456  (p.  83)  ;  sewn,  in  black  leather  case. 

1  A  fragment  of  a  prophecy  wanting  beginning  and  end  :  *  «  #  « 
a  thauodev  y  teirw  a  drychant  Mynyglev  yrrai  a  vrewynt  a  orthrymant 

o  gadwynev  a  henavion  amseroedd  a  newyddant Ar  hynny 

y  dyrchevir  morwyn  o  gaer  y  Uwyn  Uwyd  i  roddi  meddeginiaelh  y  hjnny 
A  hynny  a  gwedy  prover  pob  kylvyddyt  oy  hanadyl  y  hvn  ysycha  y 
ffynnoniev  ar  gweddiawdyr  Oddyna  yny  yachao  hithev  oy  yachwyddawl 
vyddyglyn  y  kymer  yn  i  Haw  ddehev  llwyn  kleddyddon    Ac  yn  y  Haw 

asswy  ]ddi   kedernyd   niveroedd    llvndain ends:    Ac  avon 

demys  a  svmvdir  y  waet  Perch  y  kwflev  a  wahoddir  ir  neithiorev  ac  ev 
lief  a  glywir  hyd  y  || 

15  Lvna  prima   Adam  creatus  est Lvna   30  hec   dies  vana 

est  et  invalis  &c. 

19  Sol  W3yls  thus  planet  regns  ynlhe  howre  of  the  day  or  nycht    Wo 

so  begyns  eny  werke  of  ystabylnes Mars  he  ys  a  plar.et  full  of 

batyll  and  stryf. 

20       De  horis  planetarum 

29  Kywethev  y  drindawt  kyvoethev  kywathawc  ....        a 
rrac  puchant  pechodev  Gwadan  Iv  elyflu     .... 

hyt  vrawt  traethaf  volawt  val  diamhev 

30  Dyddawt  clav  cljwydd  chwetlev  gan  chwetleydd  b 
llo  gwyn  ar  gynnydd  val  tan  mellt  maltraeth  dygyrchydd  &c. 

berc/am 
b.       Corn  ymhedryddan  corn  ymhedeir  ban     ....  c 

Pob  traha  treithid  dduw  ehvnan  1/  bergam 

31  Diargel  ryvel  rrwyf  am  ddwylan  conwy  d 
kynnwryf  a  ddaw  i  gaer  ddiganwy     .... 

yn  wir  gwr  bievydd  <ir  tyroedd  kynann  Aw  [sic] 


352  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   26. 

82       Daroganaf  i  Lrigfit  gan  geidwat  pridain     ....  a 

Gwae  ef  an  gwnaeth  prydaia  Adda  vras 

b.       Arvaeth  morwyr  orvod  oiigyr  engyr  wyddant     ...  h 

(11-  diweddvyd  lluoedd  gwyndyd  lawen  vyddant 

33  Dai-oganaf  awen  owain  varcliawc  c 
las  dolvi-  i  hvfyr  a  llyr  yn  llidiawc  &c. 

34  Meibion  moelion  a  vydd  yn  alltvdion  &c.  d 

b.  Eryr  a  gyvyt  bryt  ymrython  &c.  e 

c.  Mi  ath  ovynnaf  gvlvardd  eilvardd  gorev     ....  f 
pan  vo  aeiva  pan  vo  tyrva  twryf  anoddev                bergam 

35  GwihvjT  parth  pyrtli  rradlou  .ay  gwyl  pan  hwylion  &c.       g 
b.       Ywain  yngarth  ov.'ain  ynghyvarth  h 

owain  gorawen  gwyr  dehevbarth  &c. 

36  Clywitor  corn  mawr  llawr  Ivndain  &c.  i 

b.  Amliw  blaen  coet  hoet  hvedron  &c.  k 

c.  Pan   .ihver  gwyr  gwyncdd  iiat  byw  i  bonedd  &c.  / 

37  Daroganaf  y  rrywynt  A  bynt  i  ogledd  &c.  m 

b.  Corn  a  byddawr  corn  a  lleflawr  &c.  n 

c.  Goiovyn  gwawr  blygain  gan  devlv  ywain  &c.  o 

38  Dybydd    ddygymv  ac  ymlen  cava  cat.  cafat  orddot  .    .  .    p 
Gwae  yw  cor  heb  garant  parnliawn  pa  iawn  a  gafant. 

b.       Mi  atli  ogyvarchaf  gvlvardd  bwyt  Alaf     ....  q 

A  rrac  gosgryun  go.=!gordd  hyaf. 

39  II  cwhen  the  cok  of  northe  hatb  beylde  bys  nyste  ...  r 

"jn  ^osapbat  schall  be  berrede  be 

Ther  yndyih  the  versis  of  brytlington. 

41  Mi   ath  ovyunaf  verddin  pa  vydd  a  vyddin  &c.  * 

b.       Medwitor  medd  torritor  bedd  dehedd  vwyvwy  ...  t 

Onith  ladd  di  dduw  nith  ladd  di  ddyn 

42  Tavrus  corineus  ex  patris  germine  brutus  &c.  u 

b.  prophecia   vldigan :  Cum   nou  nubeutur  neque    nubent    tunc 
prohibentiir  &c. 

c.  Y  marchoc  yn  arvoc  yn  erbyn  kedev  &c.  v 

43  Merddin .  Mor  trvan  gennyf  mor  trvan  a  dderyw  ...  w 

gwedy  taliessin  byddawt  kytfredin  vy  narogan 

44  Gwasgargerdd  Taliesin :  Y  gwr  a  lefeyr  yn  y  bedd  ...        x 

dawn  a   rymbesynt  yny  ddcl  gwyut  ar  cbes 

47  Kyvoesn  merddin :  Doetlivm  j  atiad  y  adrawdd  ....       g 
yny  gaer  ni  wesgrydd  gogiedd  duw  o  wenddydd 

56       byd  y\v  bwn  bryd  wrtb  gymmvn  z 

brevddwydawl  pawb  drvvy  ehvn 
dav  eidion  i  vn  ac  vn 
Ac  arall  ac  arall  hep  yr   vn  &c. — end  wauting. 

59  Prophecia  viterbue  de  fortunis  anglie :  Mors  tibi 
deliruHJ  gladiuwi  jiarad  uiideque  dirum  &c. 

b.  krist  Jessv  goj'uchaf  i  li  y  krcdaf  &c.  Taliessin    aa 

c.  chweu  sonday  goth  by  E  d  and  c  And  prime  by  on  &.  too  &c. 


.        PROPHECIES,   DEEAMS   ETC.  353 

.  60       Buriiys  ne  battelhw  brytten  y t  schall  be     ...     . 
Betwix  too  kyiiges  for  a  clere  encloos 
A  content  schall  be  cryede 

63  I>  Eryr  Mawr :  Govyn  Gwenddydd  [i  verddin  i  brawd 
ac]  ydohvyn  iddo  ado  kof  pa  bryd  y  dve  iddvnt  vvddyg[oIiaetli]  ar 
ol  i  goristwug  or  sayson  Merddin  yu  atteb  i  wenddydd  i  cliwaer  yr 
wyf  yn  dicgio  dy  ysmalawrwydd  yn  keissiaw  bvddygoliaeth  ith  genedl- 
aeth  di  ....  Ac  yna  y  niarchoga  yr  eryr  gvvr  hyt  onuenev  meigion 
Ac  yno  y  pair  vostrio  i  boll  Ivoedd  Ac  j  geilw  am  i  broffwyd  o 
wynedd  is  koiiwy  a  dyvynnwr  meibion  i  ystavell  ac  yna  y  dychyraev 
y  dyvynnwr  alw  arnvnt  tt  ap  owen  ap   Gr.  a  elwir  yn  gyntaf  Gr: 

ap  ho:  ap    dd:  o  hil    Rodri  &c ends:  Pa    beth    medd  yr 

eryr  mawr  a  wuaetli  yr  ysrel  Modd  y  gwnaethoch  chwthevr  bryt- 
taniait  ar  saessou  a  ddyail  traliaa  yr  ysrael  megys  y  dialassant  trahaa 
ar  y  bryttaniait  gyut. 

70  Petrus  baldevill  de  ^talia  audiuit  &c. 

71  ILyma  ddyail  brevddwyd[ion  herwydd'\y  lloir  :  Y  dydd  kyntaf 
or  lloer  ogwely  vrevddwyd  llewenydd  arwyddocka  ....  ends  :  y 
30  or  lloer  o  gwely  .  v  .  y  brevddwyd  a  welych  diogel  vydd. 

73  A  lymar  modd  y  dyellir  y  brevddwydion  :  Gweled  dy  vod 
yn  daly   adar  ynnill  yw    Gweled  adar  yn   dianc  i  kennyd  kolled   yw 

ends :    Gweled   kwu   yu   kyffarth    nev   yn    dyffratliv     dy 

elyunion  yn  gwnvlhvr  avies  yt  ynt  Gweled  dy  dare  a  haearn  kolled 
ywhynny. 

81  Hec  sunt  nomiaa  illius  Regis  qui  sanctam  crueem  lucrabitur 
secundum  diuersos  Sanclus  Uauid  vooat  eum  filium  hominis  &c.  &c. 

82  Enwev  kleddyddev  y  milwyr ;  (2)  J  wybod  ai  mab  ai  merch  vo 
gan  wraig ;  (3)  J  wybod  gwan  rwng  gwraig  a  meroh  ;  (4)  202  atom 
a  vydd  yn  yr  wns  a  12  wns  yn  y  moment  &c.  (5)  pan  anet  crist  ar 
anticrist,  a  swm  y  blynyddedd  o  ddechrev  byd. 

84  Tri  hyd  y  gronyn  gvvenith  y  sydd  yn  y  vodvedd  &c. 

b.  15750  or  milltiroedd  hynny  sydd  or  ddaear  hyt  y  llevad  &c. 

c.  Yr  havl  y  sydd  hoU  olevni  o  gwbl  or  holl  vydyssawd  wrth  y 
gyflewyt  hi  yn  y  kymhervedd  y  rwng  y  ddayar  afvryvaven  y  vegis  y 
galle  hi  olevhav  y.tv  vry  ar  tv  yma  iddi  &c. 

85  Y  ffvryfavon  y  sydd  jmgylch  y  4  devynnydd  megis  y  niae 
blisgyn  yr  \vy  ynigvlch  .  .  .  .  y  dayar  .  .  a  gyvlevhawd  yn  y  pervedd 
&c.  &c.* 

87  II   Y  gwynt  a  oUyngir  or   gogofev    kvon  or  dayar  drwy  darth 

sych  a  gyvoto  or  ddayar  i  gyffroi  yr  awyr Devddec  gwynt  y 

sydd  &c. 

b.  Gwr  doedd  a  elwid  Alfraganus  a  ddywaid  bod  yn  wvy  y 
seren  leiaf  yn  y  fvrfaven  nor  holl  ddayar  a  rrac  i  polled  i  wrthim  a 
wna  bychaned  i  gweled  &c. 

88  ])iffic  y  llevad  yw  bod  y  deffnyddiev  yn  vnyawn  kymedrawl 
Eegythi  ar  havl  &c. 

b.  Saturnvs  plaenet  sych  oerveloc  yw  ....  Venus  gwlyb  a 
gwressawoc  yw. 

89  Pedwar  pedwar  a  wua  wl  Sef  yw  hynny  16  kyfflybion  bob 
rew  y»v  gilydd  &c. 

*  "  Cilia  yn  llyfr  a  scriveaes  i  o  lyfi- Owen  "  in  a  xviith  century  hand. 


354  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPTS    26-27. 

h.  Pedwar    amser   y   vlwddyn    yw   gwaniwyn   a  haf    &c 

kynneddvev  annyan  &c. 

97  An  enumeration  of  countries  ruled  over  by  "  Kings,"  Emperors, 
&c.,  with  various  items  such  as  "  Eesurrexo  Owain  Glyndwr 
A".  M.cccc.]"  Obitus  Walteri  barlee  magistri  de  halfrawi  1542  .  . 
Obitus  alson  Gwyn  (?)1449. 

98  Obitus  Roberti  Trevor  .  .  1452.  Mavrrth  mis  dilys  kais  ar  ddilyt 
&e.  Bellum  Henry  iiii  apud  Eatslfylde  .  .  cum  Hary  Percy  1403. 
Obitus  Ow:  Glyndvpr  die  saucti  Mathei    Aprili  1415  &c.  &c. 

101   The  signs  of  the  Zodiac:  Quando  Ivna  est  in  ariete  &c.  &c. 

108       And  howe  schale  my  hert  be  lyght     ...  a 

yf  hyt  may  nonowthyrwys  by. 

111  A  fragment  ending :  ef  a  vydd  kyving  kyngor  y  kor  gorav.       h 

Merddin  wyllt 
b.       Koed    a   leddir    koed   a    gedwir   kadarn    enwir  a  geidw   i 
dir     .     .     .     .  c 

dir  yn  kadarn  euwir  gadel  haiarnolion  Adda  vras 

112  S.  mnsed  iu  mydys  mekyll  towart     ....  d 
And  then  thys  londe  schall  bruten  be. 

117  Lilium  regnans  nobilissima  parte  mundi  &c. 

118  The  last  kyng  of  brute  was  Cadwaladrus  &c. 

122  When  Rome  ys  removyd  ynto  Englon  and  ilk  a  prists  .  .    e 
then  the  Ryght  schall  to  the  lyne  of  gwladus. 

h.  Optima  medicina  pro  dolore  capitis,  with  other  Recipes  in 
English. 

123  Brythou  kynyddet  Saeson  heb  waret  f 
Edwart  golithret  kyn  diben  i  dyrnget  &c. 

124  dwyvlynedd  ar  ddyhedd  a  banner  y  drydedd     .     .     .     .     g 
katwaladyr  yna  a  ddyvydd  .  i  drais  dros  elvydd 
Achyrarv  bievydd  or  mor  bwy  gilydd     .... 

Ac  ynnillant  y  goron  ar  holl  geirydd 

126  Maen  ir  weilgi  a  henri  rac  y  tri     .     .     .     .  h 
Ef  a  ddaw  ir  bryn  gwyn  brenhinedd     .... 

brenin  y  bwch  ywr  gwalch  gwinev     .... 
ffralnk  ai  ffrwyna  o  dra  diriaw 

127  Meddeginieth  dda  Rrac  Sciatica:  (b)  etto  vn  '' orchestol." 

128  An  item,  partly  illegible,  about  William  ap  Jankyn  Rector  of 
(?)  Wyttyngton  ;  and  a  prophecy  concerning  the  "  eagle." 

)  29   This  is  the  last  saying  of  Thomas  of  arsedon  . 

whan  Rome  ys  removed  yn  to  Engloud     ....  i 

how  he  3ede  va  fro  no  man  cowth  tell. 
131       When  comyns  schall  vnkurtesly  call,  Walys     ....      A 

All  the  condicion  what  so  the  be 


MS  27  Part  i  =  Hen,  22.  A  Calendar  by  Gutttn  Owain. 
Vellum';  8i  X  6  inches;  16  pages  of  which  the  first  and  last  (which  is 
imperfect)  are  so  stained  as  to  be  hardly  legiblel  ast  quarter  of  the 
xvth  century ;  sewn  in  old  vellum  covers. 

For  another  copy  by  Guttyn  Owen,  see  Mostyn  MS.  88,  pp.  13-26. 


THE  TEACHING  OF  CATO   ETC.  355 

-imS.  27  Part  ii  =  Hen.  218.  Astrology,  Mecicine,  Words  of 
Advice,  Brut  of  the  Saxons,  a  brief  Chronicle,  Lives  of  Sts. 
David; and  Gwenvrewi, Boned  y  Saint,  &e.  Paper;  8|  x  6|  inches  ; 
130  pages,  begiunii)g  wanting  and  some  folios  arc  injured  by  damp  and 
mice;  last  quarter  of  the  xvth  century  (?  in  Guttyn  Owain's  hand); 
in  vellum  covers. 

"  Gruffjth  ap  11  "  is  the  cnly  writing  on  page  130.  And  the  following  eugljn 
occiirB  at  the  foot  of  page  38  in  the  original  hand : 

Uawer  bran  ei.sie  ir  hrenin  heddiw  hawdd  y  gallwn  chwerthin 

llawer  sais  Uevbais  IHbiu  ar  gro  yu  do  ar  y  d . 

hadiugan  ffol  ai  kant  pan  voddes  y  sayson  yn  yganwy. 

1  Ar  mab  a  aner  dan  yr  arwydd  a  ahvny  tarvv  sef  yw  hwiiw  o  haner 
mis  ebrill  i  haner   mis  mai  kadarn  a  dewr  vydd  a  gwych  a  hygar  a 

ch-wrtais ends :  Ar  verch  a  aner  dan  yr  vn   arwydd  tec  a 

hygar  vyd]  a  hawdd  gan  bawb  i  charv  a  dwyvol  o  voddwl  a  diwair  vyd] 
ond  blin  a  llavvrvs  a  llawer  o  vlinder  avyd]  rraid  iddi  i  oddef  a  dolvr  oi 
Uygaid  a  vydd  ami  ....  mab  a  aner  kail  ac  ysdronawl  allythyrawl 
vyd]  acbyredic  merch  o  genir  llavar  vyd]  breddwydion  a  vydan  gerth. 

13  Medical. — J  adnabod  am  glaf  gwahan  :  O  myni  t.dnabod  beth 
vo  dyn  ai  klaf  gwahan  ai  na  bo  par  di  illwng  gwayd  arno  dyro  y  gwayd 
mewn  dvvr  ac  os  y  gwayd  a  a  ir  gwaylod  iacli  vyd]  os  trie  ar  yr  wyneb 

y  dwr  klaf  gwahan  vyd] ends  :  Rac  dolur  o  gejn — Kymer 

wraidd  yr  .nlaw  athalch  keirch  a  mel  a  bertv  a  dod  yn  blastr  wrth  dy 
gefn. 

16  Father'' s  advice  to  his  son  :  Pun  ysgrivenais  im  bryd  vod  y  sawl 
ddion  ar  gyveiliorn  yn  ffordd  i  moylav  ai  defodav  mi  a  welais  vod  yn 
gyngor  ac  yn  g}'morthwy  ir  sawl  ai  gwarantawai  vynghyngorav  i  .  .  .  . 

darllain    hcb    ddyall   ysgevlvsrwydd  yw  hynny ends:     del 

ith  gof  lie  keveist  rod)  yn  dda  bydd  geredie  oth  vod]  byd]  vach  yn 
anvynych.  Cf.  MS.  3  p.  31,  supra. 

17  JLyma  y  Kattimi  arall :  Kans  ydiw  duw  yn  ysbrydol  yn  y  nef 
megis  dywaid  profEwydi  arysgvthr  Ian  bid  anrrydeddus  vy  mab  kv  i  sef 

yw  hyny  kar  dy  greawdr ends  :  Pan  vych  dedwydd  bydd  ore 

a  gellych  wrthvd  dy  hvn  yny  byd  hwii  ac  yny  nef  O  myny  wybod 
ardymerav  tiroydd  ai  diwallodrath  dysclyfr  fTeryst  yr  hwii  a  ehvir  virgyl 
O  riiyny  wybod  ymradde  gwyr  rrvvain  agwyr  pvnnc  kais  lyfr  a  elwir 
Lucan  O  myny  wybod  kyneddve  llysoyd]  kais  Ijfr  a  elwir  nasser  ac  ef  a 
dywaid  yt  Os  da  genyt  ddysgarv  ne  ordderchv  kais  lyfr  ovyd  yr  hwn  a 
elwir  naset  Os  da  genyd  vod  yn  dd[o]ytl!  dysc  y  llyfr  hwii  a  chred  y 
pethav  aglywych  yn  hwii  Na  chais  ddwindabaythav  duw  nai  ddirgeleythav 
kans  wyt  varwol  di  govala  am  beth  a  berthyno  yt  erbyn  augav. 

21  Drwy  gyvansoud  y  trwnk  i  gellir  dyallt  beiav  dyn  ai  beryglav'ai 
glwyvav  o  bell  ac  agos  yn  gynta  ni  a  vynwn  ddangos  beth  yw  trwnk 
pedwar  rryw  vonedd  y  sydd  iddaw  kynta  yw  svgyn  y  gwayd  a  gerdda  i 

leoydd  damwyniol ends  :  Obyd]  y  trwnc  yn  goch  ac  yn  loy w 

o  ddidanaw  ac  yn  drwbl  i  arnaw  o  chaiS  gyvod  i  vyny  byw  vyd]. 

23  Eecipes — Mac  y  man  hynhenid,  Rac  fwn  kroyn  gan  arf,  Rac  ir 
fflicsys,  Rac  dolur  penn,  Rac  y  parlys  ac  iddw  yn  y  uein  gefn,  Rac 
gwayw  ynghymal,  &c.  &c.   ends ;  Val  hyn  y   gwnair  autred  kymer  y 

betonika  ar  plantaen a  hwii  a  fyd)  dda  i  svgno  ac  i  dyvv   ac 

i  lanhav  y  graith  ac  i  estwug  ychwydj. 

26  Vcd  hyn  i  rrwymir  iwrch  :  J  vlingo  i  bedwar  troyd  &c. 

27  TLyma  vrvd  y  sayson  ac  val  hyn  i  gwlydychasant  wedi  kydwaladr 
vendigaid  a  goresgyn  or  sayson  ynys  biydain  yn  saith  brenhiniayth  i 
rranasant  yr   ynys  Elly  brenin   esex   killin  brenin  swsex  Edulbright 


356  PENIARTH    MANUSCEIPT    27". 

breniii  kent  bedwallt  brenin  ar  vlaynav  lloygyr  Edwin  brenin  nordd- 
liwmyrloiid   Oswallt  brenin   rrwng  trin    a  dvedd  Oswi   i   vvawd   ynte 

brenin  ar  yr  ysgotiaid  ar  fficlidiaid ends  :    Ac  velly  iroydd 

saint  edwart  a  wiliam  bastarf.  yn  gefndyr  ac  yn  gyvyrdyr  dwy  vlynedi 
ar  bymthec  ar  hvgain  i  gwladycbodi  ac  yna  gynta  i  doyth  wiliam  ir  tir 
ac  anrreithiaw  a  llosgi  a  goresgyn  y  wlad  aoruc.  Cf.  MS  22  supra. 

34  Prognostications.      Mis   ionawr  o  bydd Mis  mawrth    o 

byd)  tyrauav  gvvynt  mawr  ac  ami  tfrwytliev,  &c.  &c. 

b.  ILijma  ddiod  rruc  breeh  ir  iddetcon :  Kymer  driacl  y  tylodion  &c. 

35  The  Life  of  St.  David :  Kyredic  vrenin  a  wledychodd  kyredigion 
drwy  lawer  o  vlenyddedd  ac  o  honaw  i  kavas  keredigion  i  henw  a  mab  a 
vv  iddiuv  sant  oyd  i  henw  ....  Oddyna  i  doytli  padric  hyd  ynglyn 
vwch  rrosin  ac  i  myddyliodd  ddwyn  yno  i  vywj'd  hjd  i  ddiwedd  ac 
augel  a  ddoyth  at  badrio  ac  a  ddyvod  wrtho  gado  di  y  lie  hwn  ir  mab 
ni  aned  eto  .  .  .  .  Ac  ynr.hen  y  deng  mlyned  ar  hvgain  wedi  hyny  val 
i  royd  fant    ap    kyredic    yn   kerdded  i  hvn  nycha  leian  yn  kyvarvod 

ao  ef a  mab   a  aned   iddi    a   dewi   a"  ro}'d  yn  henw  ar   y 

mab ends :  o  dduw  svl  hyd  dduw  mowrth  i    bv   varw  dewi 

nid  ayth  na  bwyil  na  diod  ymhenav  y  rran  vwya  or  bobl  ....  a  hyiiy 
oyd  dduw  mowrth  kynta  o  galan  mowrth  i  kymerth  iesu  enaid  dewi  ir 
nefoyd)  gyda  buddygoliayth  a  Uywenyd]     Ac  velly  itervyna  y  vvched. 

49  A  brief  Chronicle :  Blwyddyn  eisie  o  ddav  kant  a  ffvm  mil  a  vv 
or amser  gwnaythbwyd  adda  oni ddoyth krist  yngnawd  dyn  ....  ends: 
M  a  CCC  a  xiiij  i  bu  laddva  ary  sayson  yn  ysgrafling  yny  gogled  ac  i 
lias  kayr    M  a  CCC  a  xv  i  rryvelod  ft  brenn  ymorganwc. 

51  Bvchedd  mair  vadlen:  Mair  Vadlen  a  oyd  mor  vvcbeddol  ac  i 
karod)  krist  hi  yn  vwyaf  or  merched  yn  nesa  at  \air  i  vam  ac  o  herwydj 

hyny  pob  kristiou  a  ddyly  anrrydeddvduw  a  mair  vadlen ends: 

Oddyna  irayth  i  orwed]  gar  bron  yr  allor  ac  yna  iddayth  i  henaid 
gwynvydedio  at  j'r  arglwyd]  dduw  ac  i  kladdod]  yr  esgob  sant  hi  gwedi 
elio  y  korff  glan  ac  eli  gwythvawr  ar  saith  niav  nesaf  ar  ol  y  kledd- 
edigayth  ef  aglywe  bawb  ara  ddey  ir  eglwys  arogle  melys  sawyrvs 
gwell  noc  i  klowsai  ddyn  irioyd  a  ffob  dyn  klaf  ara  ddelai  ir  kor  lie  i 
kladdesid  hi  a  geu  boll  iechyd  Ac  yno  i  kladdwyd  yr  esgob  sant  pan 
vv  varw  gar  i  Haw  hi. 

60  St.  Silvester  on  Roman  churches  :  Saint  Silvesder  a  ysgrivenod] 
yny  kronicl  vod  yn  rrvvain  Mil  quingente  quinqic  o  cglwysi  yrhan 
vwyaf  orrai  hyny  a  ddisdrywiwyd  yni  mysc  wynt  i  may  saith  eglwys 
brinsmal  or  pr'ifles  mwyai^  a  rrydid  agras  agorvthavieth  a  fanteiddrwyd] 

rrac  eraill  Y  kyula  yw  eghyys  'Jeuan  evengylwr  &c ends: 

yn  eglwys  braxidys  i  may  tryded  ran  or  piler  yr  ysgysiwyd  krist 
wrtho  yu'ghanol  yr  eglwys  i  may  iiii  Mil  o  gyrff  saint  a  verthyrwyd  Ac 
yno  bob  dydj  i  may  ccc  mlyned  maddevaint  ac  yniver  grwys  a  thrayan 
i  bechode. 

65  The  expedition  of  Llywelyn  to  London  .  Bid  ysbys  i  bawb  bod 
ft  ap  ierwerth  drwyndwn  yn  dywysoc  kymrv  a  march  jeuan  vrenin  yn 
wraic  iddo  ac  ef  a  garodd  drigo  yn  rrefriw  a  moli  mair  o  drefriw  yn 

vawr  a  wnai  ef ends :  ac  yna  y  tynodd  ef  i  wialen  ar  hyd  y 

pared  ac  nid  oydd  yno  mwy  or  llys  Ac  yna  i  kerodd  ef  ari  drayd 
noythion  val  kyut  gyda  ft  ...  oni  ddoyth  i  gefn  tegaingl  .  .  .  ac 
yno  i  dyvod  kynwric  koch  o  drefriw  im  gelwir  i  mair  o  drefriw  am 
anvones  i  ith  helpio  di rrac  kayl  kywilydd. 

67  Boned  y  Saint :  Dewi  ap  sant  ap  kyredic  ap  kvneda  wledic  a 
non   verch   gynyr   o    gayr  gawch  ymynyw  i  vam  .  Docvayl  m  ithayl 


BEUTS,   LIVES,   TBI  ADS  ETC.  357 

hayl  M  korvn  m  k  wledic  ....  Teilaw  a  cliynllaw  meibion  hensjcli 
M  hydddwu  m  k   in  k  w  Avail  bvellt  m  kedic  m    k  ]\i  k  w  a  tliech- 

vedd   vercli   degid    voyl    o    benllyfi    i    vam    Gwyrilliw    &c 

ends:  ^estiii  a  selvan  ymheiimon  a  llys  a  chyngar  yn  llan  gevni 
meibion  geraint  M  erbiii  m  kwysdenin  gornev  m  kyuvawr  m  tvdwal  m 
gwrmwr  yi  kadiawn  m  kynau  M  evda  liir  y  gwr  a  vv  dwysawc  ymlayn 
kymrv  pari  ayth  gida  maxen  wledic  i  rvvain  a  gwyar  verch  amlawdd 
wledic  i  mam.  Cf.  MS.  le  part  iv.  supra. 

70  Gway  hi  y  ddraic  koch  kans  i  diwraid  y  sydd  yn  dyvrysiaw 
Y  gway  hi  byiiy  arwyddoka  y  disdryw  ar  brad  a  wnayth  hors  a 
hinsiestr  pari  ddaliasan  wrtheyrn  &c. — being  a  series  cf  commentaries 
on  prophetical  utterances — ends  :  Oddyna  i  gohryn  ef  ganmawl  yr 
hall  gyaythawc  ac  y  rrwn  y  gwynvededigion  i  kyvlyeheir  nid  amgen 
gwedi  darvod  pob  peth  o  byiiy  i  gobryn  ganmal  yr  boll  gywaytboc  sef 
oydd  byiiny  kyrenydd  yr  arghvydd  bab  agavos  a  lie  yw  gladdv  y  rrwng 
y  ddav  esgob  saint  nid  amgen  saint  oswallt  a  saint  wlsdan  yngbayr 
wrangon  o  hwnio  i  lierdda  linx. 

85  TLyma  y  xxiiij  or  brenhinoydd  Itydarna  or  brytaniaid  ac  a 
varnwyd  yn  tvrola  i  gwngliwerio  ac  i  adeilad  ac  i  roi  rroddion  :  Brvtvs 

ap  silivs  ap  ysganvs  ap  ineas  &c ends  .    Kydwaladr  vendigaid 

a  vv  ddiwaytha  or  brytaniaid  yn  vrenin  ac  yni  amser  ef  i  doytb  y  vail  ar 
yrynys  a  pyrhadd  vu  vlynedd  ar  ddec  Ac  yna  i  darvv  omui  a  hwnw 
vv  sant  Ac  iddo  i  bv  drimaib  ivor  ac  Alan  ac  idwal  iwrcb  a  rrai  liyiiy  a 
want  dywyogion  ar  gymrv. 

87  Trioedd y  Meirch  :  Tri  marcbawclwyth  ynys  brydain  dvr  luoroyd 
march  elidir  mwynvavvr  a  ddvc  seithnyn  a  haiier  arnaw  o  benllech  elidyr 

yny   gogled    hyd    ymheii  Uech   elidir  y   men ends :    Tri  fFrif 

eddystr  y.  b.  dv  hir  rrynedic  march  kynan  garwyn  a  rrvddvron 
tvthvlaidd  varch  gilbert  m  kad  gyffro  ac  awyddawc  vreicbir  varcli 
kyhored  ail  kynan. 

88  Twain  ap  Mred:  ap  Tud:  ap  gronno  ap ap  mymbyr  ap 

madoc  ap  lokrinvs  ap  brvtvs. 

89  Bid  graviad  gaii   iar     bid  dridar  gan  lew     bid  ofnad  ar  a  gar     b 

toil  kalon  rrac  galar     B  aha  byddar     b    anwadal  ehvd ends: 

O  chlywy  chwedfb  hydaw  dy  vryd  ysgafn  gwaith  gwarandaw  ysgwayth 
.ail  govyn  arnaw  Navyd  var  vynych  na  chwenych  gylidan  na  cgan  yny 
bych  kadw  dy  bwyll  twyll  na  chwenych. 

90  ,Yr  amerodr  a  ovynod  ir  mab  paham  i  may  iownach  ymprydio 
dduw  gwener  no  dyw  arall  or  wythnos  &c. 

b.  Arthvr  ap  vthr  ap  kwysdenin  &c. 

91  The  Life  of  Gtvenfreivy  {imperfect)  Yngorllewin  ynys  brydain 
ymay  gwlad  a  elwir  kymrv  or  naill  dv  I'ddi  i  may  tervyne  lloygyr  ac  or 
tv  arall  eigion  y  mor  yni  chylchynv  a  saint  gynt  yni  chyvanheddv  ac  ir 
hyiiyhyd  heddiw  yni  thekav  o  wythiav  kyvwlch  Ac  o  eiryf  y  saint  hyiiy 
gwr  da  santaid]  ardderchoc  kyvwlch  a  elwid  bevnoagwedy  trymygv 
o  bono  dref  i  dad  agogoniant  y  byd  ir  mwyn  duw  ef  a  wnaythbwyd  yn 

vanach ends :  y  ffynon  ar  avon  a  *  *  *  *■  i  merthroliayth  hi 

hw  *  *  a  dynv  ir  rr  gayth  y  dwr  nac  ir  dim  ir  ddangos  gvvyth  *  * 
duw  a  ffawb  a  gant  gwared  oi  heiniav  yno. 

121  Megis  y  gwrthlad  y  ddreic  weii  y  ddraic  goch  velly  i  gwrthlad  y 
goch  y  wen  y  ddraic  woytha  a  bela  ac  o  chwythiad  i  genav  o  fflamawl  dan 
i  llysc  yr  hoU  jnjs  O  arcnav  hwiiw  i  dda  man  hadav  a  dwysa  dvrnodiav 
ai  gyrn  yny  dwyrain  Oddyna  i  dda  brenii:  gwonwynic  i  olwc  ac  ar  i 
edrychiad  i  dechryn  £Eyd]  a  chrevyd]  Oddyna  y  How  a  ddyue&a  ir  brcnin 
•  &C.  Imperfect  and  so  bitdly  gall-stained  as  to  be  illegible  in  parts. 


358  PENIAUCH    MANUSCRIPT   27'". 

127  A  vocabulary  .  Mordai  llysoyd // gogwn  mi  a  wn //maranedd 
fewdoydd  *  *  *  *  berthawc  perffaith  ysgwydkledde  &c.  Imperfect. 

128  Armes  dyddbrawd  Taliesin  ai  cant 

Deus  doiuinus  deilad  gwledic  gwhid  nerthiad     .... 

gway  amddireto  yn  yr  hwn  nid  eiddo 

raogehvch  y  bresen  *  *  *  *  hyd  ddien  Taliesin 

MS.  27  Part  iii  =  Hen.  174.  Apocryphal  Gospel,  Transitus 
Mariae,  Life  of  St.  Catherine,  the  Finding  of  the  Cross,  &o. 
Paper;  8^  X  Scinches;  110  pages,  imperfect  in  many  places ;  xwth 
century  ;  unbound. 

1  The  Gospel  of  the  Pseudo-Mathew  {wanting  .beginning  and 
end)  .■  *  *  *  (3)  Dduw  drwy  ^essu  grist  Ac  wedy  myned  ^essu  or 
aifit  pann  3'doedd  yngalalia  yn  dechrav  y  bymthegved  vlwyddyn  oi  oed 
ssadyrngvvaith  yr  oedd  yn  gwarav  gyd  a  meibion  ar  ganawl  eurdonen 
Ac  yr  oedd  'Jessii  gwedy  rywnevthur  saith   lynn  a  gwnevthur  kwndid  f 

arwain  y  dwfr ends:  A  raair  a  ^essu  ai  chwaer  gyda  hi  yr 

honn  a  ehvid  mair  clewfFas  a  rodasai  yr  arglwydd  dduw  i  jfoachym  i  that 
ac  anna  i  mam  Am  ry  offrymv  honvnt  vair  vam  Jessu  yr  arglwydd  Mair 
Klewffe  a  elwir  hevyd  Mair  o  vn  lienwar  ddiddanwch  y  n-ieni  j| 

17  II  y  rrai  addevant  ir  byt  ac  eisiav  aelodav  uduvnt  eraill  heb 
synnwyr  eraill  yn  gyvarthedic  eraill  yn   vyddeir  eraill  yn  ddeillion  erill 

yn  vvdion ends:  Wrth  hynny  gwedi  purhaer  enaid  oi  gariad 

drwy  adnabodigaetb  y  korfE  ef  a  yn  wastad  i  hoU  synhwyrav  ac  a 
ymwrthladd  acham  veddyliav  knawdol  ac  a  ddarostwng  ir  ysbryd  glan 
Ef  a  gyvyd  ar  dduw  dad  yn  arglwydd  ni  ^essu  grist  i  vab  || 

29  Mynediad  Mair  ir  nef:  Molitte  was  krist  esgob  eglwys  sar- 
dine   ends:  ac  ar  hynny  yn   ddiannod  y  rryddhawyd  i  ddwy- 

law  i  wrth  yr  elor  Ac  eisioes  ^  vreichiav  a  oeddynt  ddiffrwyth  Ac 
nid  oedd  heb  ddolur  Ac  i  dyvod  pedyr  wrtho  dyne  ||  See  Llyvyr  Agkyr 
Llajidewivrefi,  p.  83. 

43   The  Life  of  St.   Catherine :  A)-glwyddi  gwrdewch  a  dyellwch  yr 

hynn  a  ddywedir  y  wch  or  wyry  vendigedic    faint  katrin ends : 

wrth  hynny  ninnav  a  adolygwn  ac  a  archwn  i  dduw  eti  chariad  hi  ac  yr 
y  dyoddeiviaint  a  oddevodd  hi  ar  i  chorfE  glan  er  kariad  tvw  roddi 
trvgaredd  ^  ninav  a  rroddi  ynn  yn  byvvyd  yny  byd  yma  val  i  galloni 
ddyvot  i  ddiwedd  da  .  amen     Poet  gwir  vo  hynny. 

57  Y  Groglith  :  Dioddeiviaint  yn  arglwydd  ni  fessu  grist  herwydd 

matheu  angelystnr  nid  amgen  yn  hen  gymraec  no  chroglith  Sfc 

Yn  yr  atnser  hwnnw  i  dywod  Jessu  tvrth  i  ddisgyblon : — 

Pam   na   wyddawch  wi .  .  mae  gwedy  deuddydd  y  bydd  y  pasc  ac  i 

bradychir  mab  dyn   hyd  pan  groker ends :    A  ffan  roddynt  i 

dwylaw  ar  ddynion  kleivion  hwy  a  vyddynt  Jach  Ac  wedy  darvod  yr 
arglwydd  ]fe.-su  ddywedud  wrthvnt  wy  hynn  ef  a  gymerwyd  ir  nef  nev 
ef  a  esgynnawdd  ar  nevoedd  Ac  yno  y  mae  ef  yn  eistedd  ar  ddeav  dduw 
Wyntav  yn  ddiannod  a  aetliant  ac  a  brygethassant  yra  hob  lie  Yr 
arglwydd  dduw  ageu  [=ag  ef]  gyd  ac  wynt  yn  kadarnhav  ev  pregeth 
gyd  ar  arwyddion  yiii  kalyn  nid  amgen  y  gwyrthiav  ydoedd  dduw  yni 
ddangos  drwyddvnt  hwy  yr  ebystyl. 

90  TLiitna  vynegi  vegys  i  kavas  elen  luyddoc  verch  goel  y  groes 
vcndigeid  :  Ac  wedy  dioddef  on  arglwydd  ni  ^essii  grist  y  kvddiodd  yr 

eddeon  yn  lie  dirgel  yny  ddaiar  y  groc ends  ;  Ac    wedi  kuvl- 

Haw  [?  kuvlaivnu]  o  elen  gwbyl  oi  holl  negessav  ynghaeruselem  gan 
ymddiriaid  yn  ffydd  grist  .  .  .  Ar  nob  a  anrrydoddo  y  drindod  gan 
ymddiriaid  i  ddioddeiviaint  jfessu  grist  ar  groc  A  vyddant  gyfrannoc  gyd 


THE   LAWS    OF- HOWEL  DDA.  359 

a  mair  vam  grist  yn  dragwyddawl  orfEowys  a  llywenydd  a  gogoniant  yny 
nef  amen, 

109  ILyma    brafftoydoliaeth  y  keilioc :    Galw    di  y    keilioo   darian 
Annedus  o  vrutus  nid  eheta  ederyn  yny  byd  gyffelib  yr  keilioc   enw  y 

tarw   ai    gryfder   a   gerdda  at   y   keilioc Nid  ymddengys   y 

gwirionedd  or  ddaiar  heb  ryvel    Kid  ofnhan  y  liyvlon  or  nef  heb  i  darged 
Y  gras  aderir  yn  || 


Ms.  28  =  Hen.  7.  Leges  Howei.  Da.  Vellum  ;  7f  x  6  inches; 
52  pages,  in  good  condition  with  the  exception  of  the  iirst  and  last  two 
folios  ;  last  quarter  of  the  xiith  century ;    in   old  oak  boards  binding. 

This  is  the  oldest  known  copy  of  Howel's  Laws,  either  in  Latin  or 
Welsh,  and  its  text  is  printed  in  the  Rolls  edition  of  the  Ancient  Laws 
and  Institutes  of  Wales,  Vol.  ii,  pp.  749-814. 

"T[here  is  a  transcript  of]  Howel  dda's  Laws  in  S'  Rob[  handwriting]  in 

St.  Benedict  Coll.  Library  in  [Cambridge  wberj  there  is]  alfo  Caradoc  of  Llan- 
[carvau's  History  of  the]  Pr[inces  of]  Wales  iu  latiue.  Archbp.  Usher  informed 
Mr.  Eob.  Vaughan  of  Hengwrt  that  there  is  a  fragment  of  Welfh  Annalls  wA/ch 
feme  times  belonged  to  St.  Davids  in  Benet  Coll.  Cambr:  this  Richard  Dayies 
Bifhop  of  that  sea  a.d.  1568  lent  Mat.  Parker  Archbp.  of  Canterb;  who  gave  the 
lame  fairly  written  to  that  Coll."' — written  on  a  slip  of  paper  which  is  pasted  inside 
the  end  cover. 

"D.  liob.  Vachani  liber  T,egum  Bntta7iie  qui  et  fideliter  transcript:  per  GuiL 
Maurioium  An°  1662." 

1  Jncipit  prologuf  in  libra  legum  Howel  da  :  Brittauie  leges  rex 
howel  qui  cognominabatuE  bonuf .  i  .  da  .  regni^fui  .  f .  gwynedotcrum  . 

powyl'forum  .  atque  dextralium ends :   Kodem  niodo  cum  animal 

adducitur  a  loco  in  quo  iuf  de  eo  haberi  non  poffit :  ad  locum  in  quo 
possit .  i  .  ab  agchvereith  at  keuereyth. 


MS.  29  =  Hen.  26.  Y  ILytye  Du  ou  Weun,  or  The  Black 
Book  of  Chirk,  is  the  oldest  copy  of  the  Laws  of  Howel  Da 
in  the  Welsh  language.  Vellum  ;  7^  X  5  inches ;  104  pages,  imperfect 
and  deranged  in  the  sewing ;  pages  33-58  are  in  a  hand  smaller 
than  the  rest  of  the  MS.  which  seems  to  have  been  written  about 
1200.  The  rubric  initials  are  quaint  and  ill-formed.  Forms  like 
dressou,  troith,  din,  neildu,  hiii,  ecchen,  bucc,  hycc,  rye,  pet,  pedh, 
peht,  peth,  pue,  lloe,  testify  that  this  MS.  must  be  a  copy  of  one 
considerably  older,  and  that  Welsh  can  hardly  have  been  the  native 
tongue  of  the  scribe,  whose  notion  of  the  value  and  use  of  the  aspirate 
in  particular  is  decidedly  original  even  among  the  few  MSS.  in  the 
North- Walian  dialects.  This  MS.  is  the  A  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and 
Institutes  of  Wales,  and  it  is  a  matter  for  regret  that  its  text  should  not 
have  been  reproduced  with  more  care  and  fidelity  throughout.  It 
corresponds  with  pages  2-80,  108-110,  80-106,110-166,  254-334  of 
Vol.  i.  of  the  printed  text,  and  with  pages  1-20  ofVol.  ii.  For  the 
lacunae  in  this  MS.  see  Additional  MS.  14931  in  the  British  Museum. 

This  MS.  contains  also  (p.  31)  an  elegy  to  ILewelyn  ap  Griffith 
Prince  of  Wales  written  at  the  time  of  his  death  on  a  space  left  blank  by 
the  original  scribe  ;  and  page  32  has  a  considerable  number  of  Proverbs 
in  a  hand  later  than  the  laws. 

This  MS.  has  marginalia  throughout  in  the  hand  of  Sir  Thomas  ap  Wiliem,  and  the 
following  occurs  on  p.  52  : — Mjui  Tho:  wiliem  phyfycwr  u  dharlheneis  y  Ihiuer 
hwnn  ag  ai  heglureis  yn  hylythr,  oedran  Christ  ^efu  ynol  y  cnawd  .   1608. 


360  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   29. 

1  Heuel  da  iiab  kadell  teuyliauc  kery  oil  aiiellef  ekemry  en  kam 
arueru  or  kefreythyeu  ac  adeuenuf  atau  uy  guyr  opop  kemud  eny 
tehuyokaet  epduuar  en  lleycyon  ar  deu  elcolecyon  fef  achauf  euenuyt 
er  escleycyon  rac  goflbd  or  lleycyn  dym  avey  en  erbyn  er  efcrftiir  Ian 
fef  amfer  edoythant  eno  egarauuyf  fef  amfer  achauf  edoyaut  egarauuyf 
eno  urth  delehu  opaup  bod  enyaun  (en)  er  amfer  glan  hunnu  .  Ac  na 
guenelhey  k(am)  en  amfer  gleyndyt  Ac  okyd  kaghor  akyd  fynedycaeth  . 
edoytho[ii]  adoytant  eno  er  hen  kefreythyeu  aefteryafant  arey  onadunt 
aadaffant  yredec  arey  aemendaffant  ae  ereyll  en  kubyl  adyleaffant  . 
ac  ereyll  oneuuyt  ahofodaffant  .  aguedy  hony  onaduut  ekefrej'thyeu 
auarnaffant  eu  cadu  .  heuel  arodef  yaudurdaut  uthut  ac  aorckem'enuf 
en  kadarn  eu  kadu  en  craf  .  aheuel  ar  doythyon  auuant  ykyd  ac  ef  . 
aoffodaffant  eu  hemendyth  ar  hon  k'amry  holl  ar  e  nep  egkemry  alecrey 
heb  eu  kadu  ekefreythyeu  .  Ac  adodaffant  eu  heniendyt  ar  or  egnat 
akamero  dyofryt  braut  ac  ar  er  argluyt  ay  rodhey  ydau  ar  ny  huypey 
teyr  kolhouen  kefreyth  aguertli  guell*  adof  a  pop  pedh  reyt  ydynyaul 

aruer  arnau ends:  Pop*    pekerd  telyn  adele  yka  ekeroryon 

telyn  gued]  ed  emadauoent  a  telyn  rail  Amenu  bod  en  kerdaur  ke|ueyaf 
ay  uod  en  eyrcyat  .  xxiiii  .  y  ober  Ac  adele  opop  dohouot  or  akafoent 
nac  oerchy  nac  okauaruf  neythaur  ran  deurur  keny  bo  ene  lie  of  kouyn 
Sef  eu  kauaruf  neytyaur  xxmi  or  neythaur  ahyne  yr  beyrt  Ac  enteu 
adele  ygiaafanaet  ual  gur  medyanuf  ar  nadunt  Rey  adeueyt  panyu  dyn 
amdy  #  *  #  uenhedyc  eu  kauarc  kyfyll  .  Ereyll  adeueyt  panyu  deruen 
aladher  en  hageuarc  ar  tref  tat  pryodaur  adeleu  dody  mautell  arnau 
oyckudyau  rac  y  gueletaboden  guaraduyt  yn  tref  tadauc  ygule<  ^oruert 
uabmadauc  uab  madauc  eyfyoef  adeueyt  panyu  hun  eu  kauarch  kyfyll 
yaun  .  Sef  eu  bene  paijuo  karr  en  kyf  yr  llofrud  || 

Elegy  to  JLewelyn  ap  Griffith 

31     Meu  voly  cryit  kely  kwhvyd 

maur  volaut  dydraut  dydramguyd 

Meith  em  gunaeth  galar  ae  arwyd    arnafE 

my  ny  retennaff  adan  eafluyd 

mor  trauf  w  jeffu  aniaeftrygwyd 

mor  treyffur  aghen  an  ren  ratlwyd 

mor  tryft  yw  en  byw  y  bot  glafwyd     deruyu 

ar  grud  Uewelyn  Hew  ehagruyd 

maur  peyr  kynnyuyeyr  kyiinyf  bylwyd 

maur  pen  kemry  wen  aekemenruyd 

maur  parch  go  geuarch  gogefiud 

gurhyt  mae  efpeyt  ebyt  en  enpetruyd 

cam  egorue  duyw  otebegruyd 

ken  bey  truch  nae  bey  trychanraluyd 

kemerrwf  agheu  eghefruyd     atfau. 

adegynt  oe  Jau  luoffogruyd. 

Uewelyn  hael  dyn  hwyldaun  awyd 

llewyandyr  guenuydyc  guledyc  guladluyd 

Uadaud  duyw  arnam  ny  am  dwyn  lleydwyt     urwyt 

llauurwyt  efcwyt  ar  eefewyd 

Hew  en  aer  llyw  taer  am  eteirfwyd 

Uuuydey  a  lythrey  oe  helaethruyd 

Ueydyat  uryt  en  ryt  en  rodwyd     ongyr 

och  aguyr  am  gur  dywaradwyd 

och  uaur  auuryr  odyruygruyd 

och  ueyth  ep  echueith  oe  obeythruyd 

och  degyn  adognef  goleuruyd 


THE  LAWS  OF   HOWEL   DDA.  361 

och  am  naf  am*  nep  dywytruyd 

och  am  ner  mwner  mwnogruyd 

och  nof  o  arof  er  aruyd 

ooh  dyd  adodyw  oe  tramguyd  . 

och  duyw  odyua  gareydruyd  . 

och  duyw  odyuot  en  argluyd  Anon. 

32  Proverbs :  Ny  Iculc  duu  pan  ryth  guaret : 

dyn  aranj^s  neu  agauaf: 

Hirguetdaut  y  ueuel  .  Hirnych  y  agheu  .  liir  oreyfte  y  ogau  . 

42  At  the  foot  of  this  page  there  is  a  short  poem  which  is  partly 
illegible.     It  is  in  the  same  hand  as  that  on  p.  31. 
VI  cat  o  ragat  .  .  vffgwyd 
Guedy  echung  tec  ar  carthrefrwyd 
Giiede  llawer  gur &c. 


MS.  30  =  Hen.  MS.  12.  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da.  Vellum ; 
7f  X  5|  inches  ;  82  folioa  (plus  a  blank  vellum  leaf  inserted  at  either 
end  by  the  binder);  bicolumnar  and  numbered  1-328  respectively; 
wanting  the  beginning  and  end,  as  well  as  folios  46-47;  xiiith  century  ; 
bound  in  leather. 

This  MS.  does  not  appear  to  have  been  used  in  the  preparation  of  the  Ancient 
Laws  and  Instiiutes  of  Wales.  Its  text  possibly  was  the  basis  of  MS.  F,  though 
the  readings  differ  in  many  places.  The  statement — Odamheuyr  hot  pob  un  or 
llessoet*  a  dncpvyt  uchot  eu  bot  e  \  Aefreyth  hewel  edrecfter  elleureu  lladyn  ac  eno 
y  Iteffyr  (^co\.  141) — confirms  our  hypothesis  that  the  Welsh  Laws  were  originally 
written  in  Latin,  but  with  the  technical  terms  left  mostly  untranslated. 

This  MS.  practically  cover.?  the  same  ground  as  the  printed  text  on 
pages  92-104,  110-138,  314-328,  262-270,  216-260,  140-166,  170- 
198  of  Vol.  i ;  and  pages  1-20,  28-66,  98-100,  68-76,  94-96,  78-90 
of  Vol.  ii.  The  pages  are  given  above  after  the  order  of  the  text  in 
the  MS.,  which  contains,  besides,  some  passages  not  in  the  printed 
volumes.  Apparently  the  scribe  of  this  MS.  used  MS.  29  and  a  Latin 
text,  and  editedf  and  arr.anged  the  contents  afresh.  The  rubric  initials 
(cols.  147-304)  of  this  MS.  seem  to  be  modelled  on  those  in  MS.  29. 

Col.  1  II  hy  adyly  punt  .  ao  enetredelweith  hy  aeyll  yfgar  heb  golly 
dym  oy  da  ar  da  agauaf  uchot  am  yguaradvvyd  ahyu  adyly  herwyt 
ybreinneu  .  kemeret  idy  ehun  en  di  keuran  heb  dym  yr  gur  yny  herbyn. 
[Gt]ureyc  ybrenyn  adyly  rody  heb  gannyat  etrayan  adel  ydy  odouot 
ybrenyu  .  [Gjureyc  uclielur  adyly  rody  heb  ygannyat  ycrif  ay  mantell 
ay  pcnllyein  ay  cfgydyeu  ay  buyt  ay  dyaut  acraun  y  kell  .  abenfygyau 
holi  dodreuen  .  [GJureyc  tayauc  adyly  rody  ypenguch  abenfygyau 
ygogyr  yn  gyn  pellet  achlewer  yllef  yar  ydom  yn  galu  y  erchy  yduyn 

adref ends :  OAeruyd  nabo  dym   da   ydau   enteu  .   ac   ena 

er  argluyd  en  mynnu  mab(?j(edyn  am  edelet  cany  cafFaf  er  reyth  ac  en 
delect  ar  ytat  "er  reyth  .  'Kefreyth  adewej't  am  lladrat  na  deleyr  barnu 
reyth  ar  nep  namyn  ar  y  nep  egerro  yperchennauc  arnau  acany  gerruf 
perchennauc  ar  yniab  dym  urth  hynny  na  dele  mab  attep  am  reyth  ytat  . 
OAeruyd  dale  lladrat  en  llau  alldut  mab  uchelur  achen  erarody  e^Vef reyth 

"  Written  over  hep  t.'hich  is  cancelled  by  a  stroke  of  the  pen. 

t  Try  ryv  lefloet  efyt  eg  ke/Veyrt  heuuel  hern-yd  LLEurn  etv  cury  uyt  amgeu 
lies  kul  lies  aunyan  .  lies  gueythret  (col.  131).  It  would  appear  from  this  paragraph 
that  the  compiU-r  cf  MS.  30  had  seen  a  codex  (?  original)  at  Wbitland.    Cf.  MS.  34. 

}  In  columns  1-H6.  the  sectional  initials  have  not  been  filled  in. 

e     C8430.  B 


362  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS   30-31. 

odydor  .  ac  enteu  eylweyth  hep  uennu  emrody  ekefreyth  .  ar  lladrat  en 
cemeynt  ac  y  deley  enteu  bot  en  eneyt  uadeu  am  daiiau  ac  nat  ennyd 
enteu  egkefreyth,  bot  er  avgluyd  en  mynu-H 

Maeyn  ylhjvcr  hwnn  o  ddolennae  JS  :  J'ef  Lxxviij.  Tho:  Wilhms  phyfycwr piav. 

On  the  vellum  leaf  inserted  by  the  binder  at  the  beginning  of  the  MS.  are  the 
following  entries  ;  "  Col  =  en.  viz.  Y  Colofnog  hen  yw  enw  hwn  Neu  Col  =  an  . 
yw  arwyddyn  y  llyf'  hwn  (yn  NeSfgrawn  WM)  am  el  fod  yn  golofnog  ai  lythyr 
yn  hen  anawdd  ac  y  ddierth  wrth  'scrifenyddiaeth  yr  oefoedd  diweddhaf  .  Olim 
Tho.  Guilhelmi  Phyfic  .  nunc     D.  Eoberti  Vachani  de  Hengurto  .  A.D.  1662./ 

"  Hunc  coder  diligenter  cum  nostro  Alpha  et  lor:  comparavi,  variantes  Ijcctiones 
etaugentes  tranrcribendo,  Guil.  M.  Yr  un  ac  'Alpha  yw'r  llyfr  hv.-n  hyd  pag.  48 
[=  col.  189]  .  oSyno  allan  mae'n  cyttunaw  ac  lor:  oSieithyr  ychydig  Amrafaelion 
yn  y  ddau  heb  law  y  Coll." 

The  subjects  of  the  sections  are  inserted  in  the  margins  in  the  hand  of  Syr 
"  Tho.  Wiliems,"  and  there  is  one  page  of  index,  on  paper,  in  the  hand  of  1  Robert 
Vaughan. 


MS,  31  =  Hen.  MS.  23.  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da.  Vellum; 
7^  X  5|  inches ;  64  pages, — end  wanting  ;  first  half  of  the  xivth 
century  with  sectional  initials  in  red  and  green  alternately,  and  a  fevf 
of  the  larger  initials  floriated ;  stained,  especially  the  first  and  last 
pages,  which  are  illegible  in  parts ;  bound  in  vellum. 

The  first  page  has  an  ornamental  bordering  enclosing  the  writing, 
which  is  very  uncommon  if  not  unique  in  the  case  of  Welsh  MSS.  At 
the  foot  of  the  same  page  the  name  of  "  Meredith  lloyd  "  occurs. 

This  MS.  is  the  R  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  and 
its  text  corresponds  with  Vol.  i,  pages  338-414,  1,  17  ;  416,  1.  4-418, 
1.  20 ;  420, 1.  5-452, 1.  13. 

1  Howel  dda  o  rat  du6  Mab  kadell  b[ren]hin  kj'mrj'  oil  awelas  y 
gymry  yg  karaaruer  o  gyfreitheu  a  deuodeu  .Ac  y  dy  *  #  #  *  o 
teilygda6t  bacleu  .  Megys  archefgob  [Mynyw]  ac  efgyb  ac  abadeu  , 
A  firioreu  hyt  y  lie  a  [elwir  y  ty  gwyn]  ai-  taf  yn  dyuet  .  y  ty  h6nn0 
aperys  ef  [y  adeilat]  o  wyal  gwyngoll  yn  llety  ida6  6rth  [hela  pan 
del]ei  y  dyuet .  Ac  Orth  hynny  y  gelwit  ef  y  [ty  gwyn]  ,  Ar  brenhin  ar 

gyniilleitua  honno  a  [trigalTant]  yno  tr6y  yr  holl  arawys Ac 

or  gynnulleitua  honno  pan  teruynaOd  y  garawys  y  dewilfaOd  y  brenhin  y 
deudec  lleyc  doythaf  [oe  wyr]  ar  vn  yfgolheic  doethaf  aelwit  yr  athro 
bleg[ywr]yt.  y' luneithaO  ac  y  fynhOyraO  ida6  oe  [deyrjnas  kyfreitheu 
nc  "arueroed  yn  pryffeith  ,  Ac  yn  [neffaf]  y  gellit  y  wirioned  a 
iaOnder  .  Ac  yd  erchis  eu  hyfgryuennu  yn  teir  ran  .  Yn  gyntaf  kyf- 
reitheu y  llys  [peu]nydaOl  ,  Yr  eil  kyfreitheu  y  wlat .  y  tryded  [aruer 
o]  pop  vn  o  houunt  ,  Gwedy  hynny  yd  erchis  [gwneuthyr]  tri  llyfyr 
kyfreith  ,  vn  6rth  y  llys  peunyda61  prelT6yl  y  gyt  ac  ef  .  Araft  y  lys 
dinefOr  .  Y  trydyd  y  lys  aberffraO  ,  megys  y  kafiei  teir  ran  gymry . 
GOyned .  powys .  Deheubarth  a,6dnrda0t  kyfreith  yn  eu  plith  Orth  eu  reit 
yn  waftat  ac  yn  paraOt .  Ac  o  gyghor  y  doython  h-j'nny  rei  or  hen 
"yfreitheu  agynhalyOyt  ,  Ereill  awellaOyt ..  Ereill  adile6yt  o  gObyl  .  Ac  a 
offodet  kyfreitheu  newyd  yn  eu  lie  .  Ac  yna  ykyhoydes  y  kyfreitheu  yr 
pobyl  yn  gObyl  .  Acy  kat|  darnhaa6d  y  ha6durda6t  udunt  ar  y  gyfreith 
honno  .  Ac  y  dodet  emelldith  duO  ar  eida6  ynteu  ac  vn  gymry  oH  ar  y 
neb  nys  kattwei  rac  lla6  megys  ygoffodet  ony  eliit  y  gweHauo  gyfundeb 

sOlat  ac  arelOyd ends :  yr  hOrd  heuyt  a  wanho  a  bon[lloft 

yndi]  ny  diwygir  idi  Hath  ychrys  hagen  [yn  gyfuch]  a  thai  y  phedrein 
tray  chofyn.  Ar  tu[rncdiyng]yfuchagwary  ,  ,  ,  .  ae  goHOg  ar  [h&rd 
hOnnOT  yndi  heb  y  dif6yn  idi  ,  A  hynny  [yw  kyfreith]  t6ylt  uor  |1 


THE   LAV/S   OF   HOWEL   DDA.  363 

MS.  32  =  Hen.  MSS.  311*  &  8.  The  Laws  op  Howel  Da,  a 
Brief  Chronicle  (in  Latin),  From  Gwrtheyrn  Gwrthkned  to 
King  John,  Paul's  Vision,  the  Tree  of  the  Cross,  BRUTi75 
Saxonum,  Bnglynion,  &c.  Vellum;  8  X  5^  inches;  285  pages 
(the  paginator  missed  "121");  circa  1380  (pp.  1-224);  a.d.  1404 
(pp.  225-228)  ;  before  141G  (pp.  229-230);  and  the  lemainder  belongs 
to  the  middle  of  the  xvth  centurj ;  beautifully  written, j-  in  good 
preservation,  and  well  bound  in  white  vellum. 

"Lib.  Teg,  vel.  Teg  yw  Arwyddyn  y  Uyfr  hwnn  yn  Neddfgrawn,  W".  M." 
"  Alpha  &  ^or:  nru,  ad  himc  Cod.  emendatatifsimum,  examinavi  ego  W  JI.  1662.  " 

The  text  of  this  MS.,  which  is  the  D  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and 
Listitutes  of  Wales,  is  based  respectively  on  B,  C,  G,  and  Pen.  MS.  30, 
and  corresponds  with  Vol.  i,  pp.  l-'?6,  1.  3  ;  108, 1.  7-110, 1.  17  ;  80,  1.  9 
-104, 1.  5  ;  106,  1.  23-108,  1.  4  ;  110,  1.  19-284,  1.  6  ;  286,  1.  2-292, 1.  3  ; 
284  ;  292,  1.  6-334, 1.  19  ;  76, 1.  5-80, 1. 4  ;  and  Vol.  ii,  pp.  2-36,  1.  17  ; 
38, 1.  22-96.  Some  passages  have  been  omitted  in  the  printed  text  of 
Vol.  ii,  especially  Teir  bala6c  vechni  (pp.  197-199).  Cf.  Vol.  ii, 
pages  340-342. 

1  Howel  da  mab  kadeti  brenhin  kymry  ott  aweles  y  gyrary  yn  cam 
aruer  or  kyf  reitheu  :  a  dyfynnaOd  attaO  hyt  y  ty  gwynn  ar  daf  chwegwyr 
obob  kantref  yiigkymry  .  Y  pedwar  o  nadunt  yn  fteygyon  .  ar  deu  . 
ynyfgolheigyon  .  Sef  acha6s  ydyuyniiGyt  yr  ylgolhoigyori  :  rac  dodi  or 
tieygyon  petheu  a  vei  yn  erbyn  yr  yfgruthyr  Ian  .  Sef  amfcr  y  doethant 

yno  :  y  garawys Ac  o  gyghor   a  chytfyncdigaeth   y  dnethon 

J  doethant  yno  :  yr  hen  gyfreitheu  a  edrychallant  a  rei  ouadunt 
a  adaffant  y  redec  :  ac  ereift  a  emendanaffant  .  ac  ereitt  yn  gObyl  a 
dileaffant  .  ac  ereiit  o  newyd  aoffodaffant  .  A  g6edy  honni  o  nadunt  y 
kyfreitheu  a  varnaffant  eu  kadO  .  A  howel  a  rodes  y  a<Jdurda6t  udunt : 
ac  a  orchymynnaGd  eu  kad6  yngadarn  ac  yn  graff :  A  howel  ar  doethon 
a  uuant  ygyt  ac  ef  a  offodaffant  eu  hemeHditk  ar  honn  gymry  ott  ar  y 
neb  ygkymry  a  lyccrei  y  kyfreitheu  heb  eu  kad6  .  Ac  a  offodaffant  eu 
hemeHtith  ar  yr  ygnata  gymerei  diofryt  braOt  .  ac  ar  yr  avglOyd  ae 
rodei  idaO  ar  ny  6ypei  deir  kolofyn  kyfreith  a  gwerth  gwyitt  a  dof  .  ac 

avei  aghen  y  dynaOl  aruer  6rtha6 ends :  POy  bynnac  a  vynno 

kynnydu  :  na  charet  tripheth  yn  ormod  .  gOreic  .  a  meddaOt ,  a  hun  .  POy 
bynnac  a  vynno  bot  yn  ygnat  .  dyfget  yngraff  .  Gouynnet  yn  vuyd  . 
G0aranda6et  yn  ItGyr  .  Katwet  yngofyaOdyr  .  Dalkanet  ynwar  .  Barnet 
yndrugaraOc. 

225  Anno  .  M".  C.C:  xxx  anno  ante  natiuitatew  chrisii  {hrntiis) 
uenit  primo  cam  progenie  fua  de  reli'qniis  troianorj(7«  ad  iftam  insulajH  . 
tu«c  tcmporis  Albion  uocatam  .  The  other  items  I'efer  to  Lucius, 
Eleutlierius,  Ffagan  and  '•  Diwan,"  to  the  Pelagian  heresy,  to  Germanus, 
to  Merlin  "coram  ifortigerno  .  de  draconibi**,"  to  the  coming  of  Hengist, 
to-Dubricius  crowning  Arthur,  to  his"  death  in  612  and  the  removal  of 
fais  body  from  Enlli  in  1120,  and  to  King  Cadwaladyr, 

226  Anno  dn'i  M°CC  .  IxxxiJ  .  interfectM*  est  leuelinwjr  princeps 
■walie'  .  de  cuius  morte  territi  fu»t  walewfes  ultra  modiiw  %  turbati 
reddiderunt  regi  areglie  omnia,  eaftra  northwalie  una  ciw«  porcinu)tCMla 
crucis  dominice' .  Cambrice  uero  dicta  .  Croes  Neiiie  cum  mullis  alijs 
famofis  reliquiis  reddiderunt  t  coronaw  famociffnni  arthuri  quomlam 
regis  brittaranie  t  fic  gloiia  walie  %  wallewciujw  .  Kegibus  t  magnatibws 

*  Numbered  4  in  soius  previous  collection. 

f  This  remark  applies  only  to  the  Laws,  which  are  in  the  same  hand  as  the 
Mabinogion  in  the  lied  Book  of  Hcrgest. 

E    2 


364  PENIAETH   MANUSCBIPT   32. 

ano-lie   tj'anllata  e**  .  f  n  fequenti  uero  anno  captus  est  dauicf 

iratCT  duci  lewelioi  "^  apud  Amoythic  .  i  .  fchorouifburi  tmctus 
(lecollatj/i  %  tiuncatMS  .  In  12g6  fuit  gwerra  Morgan  Gap  mereduth 
.  .  .  .  ^n  qua  omraes  wallenfes  uniuerfaliter  fnrrexerunt  .  t  fuit  eis  ualde 
utilis  .  In  1315  luit  gwerra  Lewelini  bren  .  inter  ipiwm  "h  glamorgan- 
ewles  fulicitata  que  fuit  particularis  t  nore  durauit  nisi  per  ix  leptimanas- 
In  1321  was  the  war  of  the  barons,  and  in  1326  fuit  guerra  regine 
Cambrice  uero  dicta  :  Reuel  eurenines  ire  qua  fuit  captus  EdvvardM  rex 
cognomine  kairnaruon  .  cu?»  hugone  de  fpenfer  t  alijs  multis  magnatibM.r 
apud  penrefe  ^n  Grlinrothne  .  qui  ducti  fuerantper  diuerfas  partes  anglie-. 
%  ibide>«  exterminati  .  In  1348  the  "  great  pestilence "  exterminated 
"two  parts  of  the  Welsh  people"  ;  and  in  1361,  there  was  a  second 
plague  and  a  terrible  wind  which  overturned  groves,  houses,  &c.     In* 

1370  and  1375  there  was    a  third  and    fourth  plague A 

natjwitate  a  christi  ufqwe  a^  awnum  in  quo  modo  iamus  M°.  CCCC  . 

iiii° Anno  d'ni   MP.  Ixxxj".  Edificata  fuit  villa  de  keirdyf  fub- 

willeZmo  rege  anglie. 

229  Hoes  g^Ttheyrn  gvrtheneu  hyt  weith  vadon  ydymlavd  arthwr 
ar  fayfon  ac  ygorvu  Arthur.  C  .  xx  .  viij  .  bljned  .  O  veith  vadon 
hyd  gamlan  .  .  .7.  .  .  etids  :  Or  pan  deuth  crift  yg  canaGt  hyd  y 
OrOydyr  yn  erwin  .  Mil.  CC  .  L  .  v  ,  Or  pan  doeth  kymry  gyntaf 
y  ynys  prydyn  .  jny  doeth  ieuan  urenhin  aber  ac  yny  aetli  grufut  ab 
ftewelin  ygwyftyl' .  ij  .  M'  .  CCCCC  .  xcvj.  Or  pan  doeth  cred  gyntaf 
y  gymry  y  gan  eletirius  pap  ynoes  Hes  ab  coel  brenhin  kymry  hyd  y 
vloytyn  |1 

Here  tbe  gathering  ends  and  the  rest  is  wanting.  See  Pen.  MS.  212  =  319,  andl 
Red  Book  of  Heryest,  col.  1020,  &c. 

234  Breudwyd  Pawl.  Eeid  y6  imi  urodyr  karu  digriuOcIx 
paradOys  .  ac  ouynocau  poeneu  ufEera  y  rei  auuant  dangoffedic  y 
baOl  eboftol  pan  uu  yg  karchar  Du6  auynei  dangos  ida6  ef  nef  yny 
byd  hOnn  ac  uffern  .  ac  am  hynny  yr  anuones  du6  Oihagel  yn  yfpryd 
yny  ulaen  .  a  dyuod  a  wnaethant  y  auon  uaOr  .  a  gofyn  awnaeth  pa6l 
jr  angel  pOy  oet  en6  yr  auon  honno  .  a  dywedud  awnaeth  yr  angel 
(irthaO   ef  .  Yr   auon   hon   a   elwir   occyanus  yn   yr   hon   ydyg6ydant 

fer    y    ncf  .   ac  y  gvlchyna    yr    holl    dayar ends:     Petufli 

bedeir  mil  o  dynyon  yr  dechrtu  byd  hyd  hediO  aphedwar  tauod 
hayarnaOl  ym  pop  penn  ny  orffywyffynt  yn  dywedud  ny  ellynt  dadcanu 
un  poen  o  ufferuolyon  poeneu  .  OfnokeOch  garedigyon  vrodyr  y  poen 
hynny  .  ag0i\e6ch  da  y  meint  a  alloch  yr  du6  .  Ac  anrydedOch  du6  ae 
feint  hvd  pan  vo  ef  yn  kynhalyo  ym  pob  gweithred  da  .  ag  an  dycko  yr 
dragywydaOl  uuchet.  See  MSS.  3, 14, 15  »p-«. 

239  The  tree  of  the  Cross.  P6y  bynnac  a  uynho  gwaranda6  a  gOybod 
or  wir  groc  o  ba  du  pan  deuth  ai  o  pa  bren  y  gorllewycha6t .  a  fygyhyd 
y  bu  ir  y  pren  .  A  ph6y  ae  due  (y  preti  y  garuflale»i)  gouynned  imi 
o  gcdymdeithaOl  yftyryedigaeth  .  Ami  a  dadcanaf  y  wiryonet  .  megys  y 
keffir  7/n  i/fcrkienedic  yn  lladin  .  Adaf  yn  kyffeuin  dad  ni  pan  uyryOyd 

y  maes  0  paradOjs y  deuth  .  .  .  y  dyfiryn  ebrou  .  •  •  •  ac 

yny  diwet  ....  galw  .  .  .  feth  .  a  dywedud  ....  mi  athanuonat 
y  baradOys  ad  yr  agel  .  .  .  yffyt  yn  cad6  pren  y  uuchet  .  .  .  .  dos  .  .  . 
A  chynal  yr  un  fort  .  las  dr6y  yr  hon  y  deuthumi  o  dyno  ....  Ac 
ynteu  aaeth  .  .  .  Ac  yar  yflfynnhaOn  y  gweles  pren  maOr  ....  a  .  . 
farff  .  .  .  yg  kylch  y  pren  .  .  .  ac  .  .  .  ar  y  pren  megys  mab  newytli 
eni  . '. '.  .  Ac  odyna  y  dywat  yr  agel  6rta6  .  kymer  y  tri  gronyn  hyn 
,'ac  aerchis  idaO  [y]  dodi  .  .  .  dandauauty  tat  pan  vei  varO  .  .  . 
orrei'y  gorH0yd6ysant  teir  gOyaleu Ac  yna  ydaeth  dauid  y 


HOLY  ROOD  &  BRUTUS  SAXONUM.  365 

avabia  ...  7  vynjd  tabor  y  gymryt  y  teir  g6yalen  ....  Ac  y  due 
y  garnfralem  .  .  .  .  ac  y  dodes  ymyOn  pOH  yny  daer  .  kanys  trawnothy 
dai'parai  cf  eu  plannu  .  .  .  Ar  bore  .  .  y  kawas  gwedy  gOreidaO  y  gy t .  .  . 
eit  teir  yn  vu  pren  .  ,  .  Ac  yno  y  bu  y  pren  b6nii6  yti  tyfu  deu  vgeint 

mlyDed Eissoes  c6plau  gweith  y  teml  ny  ellynt  yr  boll  leiri 

kaffel  vn  pren  digan  yhyt  yn  boll  goct  libani  y  gwneuthur  y  gwindys  . 
Ac  yna  vrth  va6r  agbenreit  y  torraffant  6y  y  racdywededic  pren  .... 
A  phan  gyibdet  y  pren  y  vynyd  .  a[e]  offot  megys  y  dylyei  .  y  Icaffat 
yji  vyrracb  .  .  .  .  o  vn  cufbyt  .  ac  ef  yn  h6y  gynt  noc  vn  pren  o  cul'hyt  . 
Ac  uelly  y  proued  teir  gweitb  ac  y  kaffat  yn  vyrracb  o  kufhyt  pob 
gweitli  .  Ac  o  acbaOs  .  .  .  y  gOyrtbeu  bynny  y  brenbin  a  erchis  dodi 
y  pren  yny  temyl  .  .  ac  ercbi  y  pa6b  y  anrydeJu  .  .  .  ac  y  damwein- 
6ys  .  .  .  gOreic  ....  eifted  .  .  ar  y  pren  .  Ac  y  gyt  ac  yd  eiftedaOd 
yd  enynnOys  y  dillat  ac  y  llofcaffaat  ,  .  .  G-wedy  hyreny  .  .  y  dodaffant 
y  myOn  dOfyr  .  .  sef  .  .  yn  llynn  prouedigaeth  .  DOy  weitb  beunyd  y 
deu[e]i  agel  .  .  y  kySroi  y  d6('yr  .  A  phOy  bynbac  kyntaf  aelei  yn  y 
dOfyr  .  .  .  iecbyt  a  gafFai  .  Ac  ygyt  ac  ygOybu  yr  idevvon  y  gOyrtheu 
byn  :  y  kymeriant  y  pren  bendigeit  maes  or  ]lyn  ,  Ac  y  dodyffant  yn 
pont  vn  pren  ar  djfOr  .  .  .  Ac  yno  y  gorwedaOd  y  pren  hir  o  aml'er 
byny  doethfibli  y  vrenhiues  gall  y  garuffalera  .  .  .  gOedu  barnii  iel'fu 
grift  y  agheu  .  .  y  dywaOt  un  or  idewon  .  .  kymrOch  y  brenbinbren 
yl'fyd  yn  go[r]wed  ar  trawys   y   d6fyr  .  A   gOneOch  o  banaO   groc    y 

vrenhin  yr  ide-won ends  ;  Ac  or  vn  pren  yn   collet  ac  o   vu 

ry6  ffr6ytb  yn  gyntaf  .  A  megys  yn  gOabanOyt  ni  y  Ortb  an  creaOdyr  o 
achaOs  gOreic  .  veiiy  y  kyfuner  ninbeu  a  duG  drOy  rat  g6reic. 

251  Brutns  faxonum  :  Gv^edy  kadvaladyr  vendigeit  a  gorefgyn  or 
faelTon  ynys  brydein  3'n  feith  brenhinyaytb  y  ranalTant  or  rei  y  bu  yn 
■gyntaf  .  EHe  vrenbin  Efex  .  Selyn  vrehin  Sothlex  .  Edylbi'ith  vrebin 
keint  .  Eed6altt  vrenbin  blaen  Hoeger  .  Edvin  vrenbin  nortbvmbylond  . 

Ofwaflt    vrenbin   y    rOg   trin    atbued ends :    Vn    vlGdyn   ar 

■bymtbec  athrugeint  athrycbant  a  .  M  .  oed  oet  crilt  pan  cororehaOyt 
Eicard  vab  Edwat  dyGylTaOc  y  Oyr  ynteu  yn  vrenbin  .  y  bedyOared 
vlGydyn  oe  deyrnas  ef  y  kyuodaflant  kyffredin  Hoeger  yn  erbyn 
■eupennaduryeit  ac  eubarglOydi  ac  y  HadalTant  arcbei'cob  kaergeint 
tryforOr  y  brenbin  a  Robert  halys  nieiftyr  creuyd  ^eu«j(  vedytbGr  a 
HaOer  o  vyr  da  ereiti  .  y  bumet  vlOydyn  oe  deyrnas  ef  y  crynaOd  y  daear 
yn  Hoeger  achymry  ||  Cf.  MSS.  22  &  27  pt.  ii,  supra. 

The  gathering  ends  here,  and  apparently  the  text  is  incomplete.  Cf.  Bruts, 
pc.  385-403. 

266-269     Two  blank  leaves  inserted  by  binder. 
270  II  frOytb  a  tal  aval  ena  . 

Doetb  o  bren  kynben  kyn  adef  Hetrat  . 
frOytli  dygynwlat  bat  bentref  : 
aeth  frOytb  yr  pren  prif  odef  . 

ac  or  pren  vcbel  nen  nef     

Tr  neb  abryneift  ar  pren  crych  yn  brit 
brennhinaGl  brjt  bron  eddrych  . 
digaGd  ditaraGd  eddrycb 
dogynwled  heb  diued  duw  vych. 

273  Pump  rlnwed  efferen  ful :  vn  yw  bqt  tn  hoj'  dy  boedyl  arvod 
pob  efferen  bytb  awi-andewycn  Ac, 

b.  Rinwedeu  gwelel  corff  crift  ij6  hi)nn  :    Pan  ganer  efferen  :  Madden 

>dy  uvyt  amryt  y  dyd  y  gwelicb  &c ends  :  O  bydy  hebdi  beb 

kuOr  arnat  heb  anghcu  .  hyt  yr  Oytbnos  ua  chwardd  wen, 


366  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPTS   32-33. 

274  Y  ret  Jiynn  yffyd  p6nip  fynn6yr  y  dyn.  Y  ene6  y  vlaffu  ,  y 
drOin  y  arrogli  .  y  glufteu  y  wranda6  .  y  lygeit  y  welet  .  y  dd0yla6  y 
deimlaO. 

275  Dyfc  vi  duw  keli  kolouyn  iawnwlat  nef  , 
Daf  glanbobyl  ard6wyat  . 

diwann  enw  dewini  |  enat 
diwael  y  dwywal  rat     .... 
rat  im  gwn  dat  am  gwawr  doeth. 

276-285  Two  blank  leaves,  and  three  leaves  which  were  formerly,  one  at  the  end 
of  Hengwrt  MS.  311,  and  the  other  two  formed  the  coverings  of  Hen.  MS.  8. 


MS.  33  =  Hen.  MS. 47.  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da.  Vellum; 
6|  X  3f  inches;  186  pages,*  the  last  leaf  being  the  first  of  a  fresh 
gathering,  which  is  now  wanting  ;  earlyf  xvth  century,  with  sectional 
initials  in  red  and  green — those  at  the  beginning  of  lines  being  floriated; 
thickly  gall-stained  in  many  parts ;  bound  in  limp  vellum. 

"  I).  Koh'ti  Vachani  Lib.  LL.  qui  et  fideliter  tranfeript  .  per  Guilhelmii  Maxiricium. 
An"  1662"  (facing  page  I). 

This  MS.  is  the  M  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales 
and  its  text  corresponds  with  Vol.  i,  pages  .338-340;  344-384,  1.  12; 
388,1. 10-394, 1.  14  ;  396, 1.25-414, 1. 17  ;  410, 1.  4-418,  1.  20;  -^20,  1.  5- 
492, 1.  20;  4 14, 1.  18-416,  1.  3  ;  492, 1.  22-528, 1.  8  ;  532,  1.  1-662, 1.  19  ; 
418, 11.  21-25  ;  562,  1.  21-582, 1.  2.  || 

1  Hywel  da  orat  duO  ilaa[bf  ka]dell  brenhin  kymry  [oil  a]  welas 
ygymry  ygk[amar]uer  .  ogyureitheu  a  [deuojdeu  .  Ac  o  acha6s  hy[nny] 
a  dyuynna6d  attaw  opob  kymh6[t  oe]  teyrnas  whegwyr  aaruerynt 
oaGd[iir]da6t .  ac  ygneidaeth  .  A  holl  eglwy[ff6yr]  yteyrnas  aaruerynt 
o  teilygdaOt  [bag]  leu  .  Megyf  archefcob  mynyO  ac  [efjgyb  .  ac 
abadeu  .  aphrioreu  .  hyt  y  lie  [a  ejiwir  y  ty  gOynu  ar  daf  yn  dyuet  .  [y] 
tj'  hOnnO  aberis  ef  y  adeUat  o  wal  \_sic\  g[0]yiinyon  yn  llety  ida6 
6rth  hely  p[an]  delei  ydyuet  .  Ac  6rh  \sic\  hynny  ygel[6it]  ef  yty 
gwynn  .  Ar  brenhyn  ar  gyn[nu]lleitua  hbnno  atrigyaflant  yn[o]  tr6y 
yr  holl  arawys  ywediaO  [du]0  trOy  dyrOeft  perfTeith  .  ac  y  erchi  rat 
adarpar  yr  brenhin  y  weitau  [ky]freitheu  a  deuodeu  hijinry  ....  Ac 
o  gyghor  y  doethon  hynny  rei  or  hen  gyfreitheu  a  gynhalaOd  .  Ereill 
awellaOyt  .  Ereill  a  dileaOd  og6byl  gan  offot  kyfreitheu  newyd  yn  eu 
He  .  Ac  yna  y  kyhoedes  y  gyfreith  yn  gObyl  yr  bobyl  .  Ac  y  kadai-n- 
haaOd  ya6durda0t  vdunt  ar  y  gyfureith  honno  .  Ac  ydodet  emelltith  du& 
ar  eidaO  6ynteu  .  ac  vn  gymry  oil  ar  y  neb  nys  kattwei  rac  llaO  megys 
ygoflbdet  .  onny  ellit  y  gwella6  o  gyfundeb  gOlat  ac  argl6yd  .  .  .  ends: 
Perued  taradyr  keinnaOc  kyureith  .Ebill  taradyr  dimei  .Nedyf  .  agylyf . 
acheip  .  achryman  .  a  chrip  .  agOelleu  .  agOdyf  .  a  bilOc  .  a  baeol 
helyc  .  a  II 


*  There  are  besides  6  paper  leaves,  both  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  MS., 
numbered  "  6  "  in  some  previous  collection. 

•f  This  MS.  is  written  in  imitation  of  a  style  characteristic  of  the  end  of  the  xiirth 
and  the  beginning  of  the  xivth  centuries,  but  the  scribe  frequently  lapses  from  his 
model,  especially  in  his  ordinary  capitals.  The  writing  resembles  that  of  Hari. 
MS.  958  (the  T  of  the  printed  text),  and  the  orthography  seems  to  follow  that  of  L. 

t  The  outer  margin  of  folio  1,  including  some  of  the  wiiting,  is  cut  out. 


THE   LAWS   OF    HOWEL   DDA.  367 

MS.  34  =  Hen.  MS.  9.  The  Laws  of  TIowel  Da.  Vellum ; 
7  X  5^  inches;  132  pages,  deranged  in  the  binding — end  wanting;  so 
badly  gall-stained  as  to  be  no  longer  legible  in  parts — a  copy  of  the 
whole,  however,  may  be  seen  in  Peniarth  MS.  224,  which  states 
that  this  MS.  was  written  by  Eoger  Morys ;  ?  xvith  century,  but 
exceptionally  well  written  in  ink  now  pnle  ;   bound  in  limp  vellum. 

"  Ed.  ap  Rog.  ap  *Johii  ap  Elis  Eotton  o  bhvy  Riwabon  y  maelor  gymraec  {Tie 
y  Wyaer  \  "  (p.  63).  "  Bod  .  yw  Arwyddyn  y  Uyfr  liwn  yn  NeJdgrawn  W.  M.  am 
ei  fod  gynt  yn  eiddo  Ed.  ap  Ilog.  Eitun  o  Bodyllyn  "  (p.  1).  "  Totum  comparavi 
ego  W.  M.  cum  nTo  Lib.  '^for  .  1663  "  (p.  63). 

This  MS.,  which  is  tho  F  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of 
J^FaZe*,  is  a  late  compilation,  based  on  Peniarth  MSS.  30,  32,  35,  and 
Titus  D.  ii.  in  the  Harleian  Collection.  It  contains  readings  special 
to  each  of  the  above  MSS.  though  the  transcript  iy  not  always  faithful 
verbatim  et  literatim  to  its  selected  original.  It  is  curious  that  the 
Editor  of  the  Ancient  Laius,  &c.  should  give  readings  from  this  MS. 
in  places  where  the  originals  were  neglected,  especially  Peniarth 
MS.  30,  cols.  226-328  of  which  =  pages  39-73  of  this  MS. 

The  MS.  text  is  practically  reflected  with  certain  gaps  in  the 
following  pages  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  :  Vol.  i, 
pp.  218-220,' 238-2'J2,  and  Vol.  ii,  2-66,  70-74,94-96,  78-92,112-114, 
94,  92-94,  118,  66-70,  102,  174-188,  130-160,1.  22. 

1  Y  llyfyr  hwn  a  gunnvllwyt  or  petheu  goreu  a  oedd  yn  llyfr  kyf- 
nerth  mab  Morgeneu  .  a  llyfr  gronwy  mab  Moridic  .  a  hen  llyfr|  y  ty 
gwyn  .  a  llyfr  gweiran  [«ic]  ab  ruawn  ac  ygida  hyuny  or  llyfreu  goreu 
a  gad  yn  neuhevbarth  a  phowys  .  a  gwynedd  .  Ar  llyfr  hwn  a  elwir  llyfr 
prawf  yneit .  Sef  y w  hynny  teir  colofn  kyfreith  .  a  gwerth  gwyllt  a  dof 
ac  aberthyn  vddunt. 

Kyntaf  o  naddunt  yw  naw  affaith  galanaf  .  Sef  yw  hynny  .  mynegi  y 
dyn  a  ladder  yr  dyn  ae  Uaddo  .  A  hwnnw  .  a  elwyr  dirieid  tauavtrud  . 
Eil  yw  rroddi  kyngor  oe  ladd  .  Trydydd  yw  kytfynyaw  ac  ef  . 
Pedwerydd  y w  bod  yn  edrychyat  ar  y  neb  .  a  laddr  [sic]  .  Pymed  yw 
kyweithas  ar  llofrudd  .  Ohweched  yw  myned  ir  tref  y  bo  y  dyn  .  a 

ladder ends:  Ac  ar  gyfreith  y  dodafi  y  da  a  gychwynelf 

inheu  gan  dy  vod  titheu  ath  ganhat  na  dyly  hvnnv  ymchoelut  yth 
■warchadv  di  trachefjn  namyn  gan  fy  mod  inheu  am  ||  [=Pen.  MS.  224, 
p.  628]. 


MS.  35  =  Hen.  MS.  39.  "ILyuyr  KynaOc."  T.he  Laws  of 
HowEL  Da,  with  a  considerable  number  of  Pleadings  (Cynghawsefl). 
Vellum;  5|  X  4  inches;  119  folios, — the  outer  half  of  folio  1,  and 
practically  the  whole  of  original  folio  86  ai-e  cut  out,  while  folios  50-51, 
71-72,  86,  99-100,  and  106  are  blank ;  there  are  besides  two  blank 
folios  at  either  end  of  the  MS. ;  last  quarter  of  the  xiiith  century — in 
two  hands,  folios  52-70  being  in  hand  after  the  style  of  MS.  4  above,  and 
the  rest  of  the  MS.  is  in  the  same  hand  as  MS.  45  below ;  the  sectional 
initials  are  black,  excepting  those  on  folios  26-31,  which  are  red; 
beginning  and  end  wanting ;  bound  in  leather. 

d.  Cyn  .  yw  arwydocaad  yr  banner  cyutaf  ir  Uyfr  hwn  yn  Neddfgrawn  W;  M. 
Canys  yfgrifenedig  yw  fal  hynn  (page  76  infra).  Ae  felly  y  tei'uyna  llyfyr  Cynawc. 
Arwydd  yr  eil  =  rhann  yw  Ad  =  cyn  .  Hwn  ei  gyd  a  goppiwyd,  neu  a  gymharwyd  ar 
Cyfr.  oedd  effioes  yn 'fcrifenedic,  y  gann     W.  Maurice     1B62. 

*  John  ap  Elis  Eutun  [now  Eaton]  was  at  the  battle  of  Bosworth.  The  name  of 
Edward  ap  Koger  is  written  in  a  xvith  century  hand.  Addl.  MS.  1496?  in  the  Brit. 
Mus.  also  belonged  to  Edw.  ap  Koger.  t  ^f-  footnote  f  to  MS.  30,  supra. 


368  PENIARTH   MANUSCEIFT    35. 

This  MS.  is  the  G  of  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Tfales,  but  no 
use  was  made  of  the  greater  part  cf  it,  while  variant  readinojs  were 
given  from  later  MSS.  like  D  and  K  (see  Pen.  MSS.  32  and  40), 
wliich  derived  a  large  number  of  their  peculiar  readings  from  G.  The 
relation  of  Q  to  B  (Titus  D.  ii.  in  the  Harl.  Coll.,  Brit.  Museum) 
cannot  be  decided  without  a  detailed  examination,  but  judginc  by  a 
few  test  passages,  both  must  have  had  a  common  original,  or  the  scribe 
of  G  must  have  used  B,  or  vice  versa,  whichever  is  the  older  copy ; 
certain  readings  are  peculiar  to  the  two  MSS.  and  their  copies,  while 
C  (Cal.  a.  III.  in  the  Harl.  Coll.,  Brit.  Museum)  must  have  been  used 
by  the  scribes  of   B  and  G. 

The  subject-matter  of  this  MS.  may  be  seen  for  the  most  part, 
though  diSerently  arranged,  in  the  printed  edition  of  the  Welsh  Laws. 
Folios  1-196  and  766=  Vol.  ii,  pp.  176-182,  186-206,  and  210,  or 
Book  Tin,  part  of  which  is  taken  direct  from  this  MS.,  the  original 
apparently  of  F,  which  supplies  the  text  of  the  earlier  parts  of 
Bock  VIII, 

Folios  20-49  —  Vol.  i,  pp.  112-188;  folios  52-70  =  Vol.  ii, 
pp.  126-172,  but  differentlv  arranged;  folios  77-1116  =  Vol.  i, 
pp.  322-334,  314-322,  242-262,  80-108,  262-310;  folios  112- 
1196  =  Vol.  ii,  pp.  2-32.  Folios  226-256,  73-766,  contain  repetitions, 
pleadings,  and  a  few  Triads. 

Folio  1.  II  yny  la6  Nat  aeth  yn  uach  [a  dywedet  j  gyt]  a  hynny  y 
gwatta  Mai  y  bar[no  kyureith   oreu  .  ac  yna]  y  dyly  yr  ygnat  barnu 

y  ryg[tunt  wynteu  .] Ac  yna  ydyly  y  brenhin  gweftua  pob 

bl6ydyn  .  Sef  jG  hynny  .  punt  obob  un  onadunt  .  A  honno  a  rennir 
tri  ugeint  ar  pob  tref  .  A  phcdeir  tref  auyd  yny  uaena6r  .  Ac  yuelly 
opedwareran  pOy  gilyd  yrennir  yny  el  ar  pob  er6  or  tydyn  y  ran  .  A 
honno  aelwir  y  punt  tOnc  Ar  goftec6r  a  dyly  y  chymeii  .  A  chyme  || 
(end  of  fol.  496  =  Vol.  i,  p.  18.y,  11.  10-15). 

folio  52.  [O]  Deruid  hot  datleO  erug  deu  den  am  tyr  a  dayar  ac  ene 
dyd  kentaf  dewedut  or  haulur  y  uot  en  dyd  dywethaf  ydau  .  Ac  en  dyd 
coll  neu  cafFael  .  ac  oflyd  ay  amheuo  am   henne  .  emay  idau  digaun 

a  guypo O  guata  enteu  henne  ]feun   eO  gadu  e  prau  er 

perchenauc  .  ac  offenna  eprau  ardelwet  ellall  ebenfyc  eny  Go  dygeifro 
er  haul  bono  arnaG  aguedy  henne  roder  er  perchenauc  .  ac  ony  ellyr 
y  caffael  ef  roder  adewetto  kefreilk  ene  le  ef .  (See  Vol.  ii,  pp.  126 
and  172). 

Dextra  fcriptoris  careat  grauitate  doloris  .  ^n  nomine  dei  amen  . 
(fol.  68%  11.  y-10). 

fol.  68''.  [O]  deruid  bot  deu  perchenauc  a  damdug  da  opop  vn  onadunt 
en  wahanedyc  en  lau  vn  den  .  ac  en  er  vn  dathleu  ^aun  eG  gadu  eardelu 

idau   am   pop  vn  onadunt e7ids :    Trydyn  nyt  geir  eu  geir  ar 

dym  .  krefydGr  a  torho  y  profes  .  a  tyft  a  dycco  cam  tyltoUyaeth  .  a  llGfyr 
kynneuodyc  .  Tri  achos  y  kyll  dyn  tref  ytad  .  mum  .  akenlloyn  .  a  brad 
ar^luyd  .  ac  na  allho  ychynhal  nay  chyllydaG  .  (end  of  fol.  70 ;  fol.  69 
contiiins  repetitions  cf  Vol.  i,  pp.  244-6,  &c.) 

fol.  73.  II  dyn  y  lyfl'u  ynteu  .  ReithGr  not  adylytygn  bot  yn  Ian  KG 
V  neb  y  tygo  y  gyt  ac  ef .  Offafta  un  gGr  onadunt  patiedic  uyd  yreith 
oH  .  EeithGr   dinot  a   dyly   tygu  Bot  yn  tebycaf  gantaG  bot   yn  wir 

jj^djjo. ends  (fol.  76'')  :    O  gwerth  dyn  anyueil  keiitaGc  .  Bit 

ynelfae  gGerlho  ydau  ydifpat  hyt  ym  pen  y  naGuet  dyd  .  Nyt  amgen  do 
thalu  y  haner  gwerth  yr  neb  ae  pryno  or  byd  MarG  .  ac  yueity  y  teruyna 
fty'uyr  kynaGc  .     {See  Vol.  ii,  p.  210). 


THE  LAWS   OF  HOWEL  DDA.  369 

folio  77.  Am  lOgyb  yt  y  dyweit  yma  .  Am  L6g6r  yt  .  Fob  perchen 
j-t  bieu  cacl6  y  yt  .  A  phob  perchen  yfgi'ybyl  .  biou  cadO  y  ylgrybyl  .  Ac 

vrtli  hynny  y  Bias  ia6a  y  paGb  daly  ar  y  yt ends :   O   deruyd 

d6yn  treis  ar  uorOyn  .  .  AC  yny  treis  honno  caffel  ohoiii  beichogi  || 


MS.  36*^  =  Hen.  312  or  Bedu.  The  Laws  op  Howel  Da. 
Vellum;  6  X  4f  inches;  pages  i-x,  1-158, of  which  i-x,  99-110,  127-8, 
133-8,  145-6,  153-8  are  blank  insertions  by  the  binder;  after  1282, 
but  not  much  later  ;  bound  in  white  vellum. 

This  MS.  is  the  O  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales, 
and  its  text  corresponds  with  pages  338-50,  404-14,  416-34,  480-92, 
414-16,  492-550,  466-68,  550-62,  418,  11.  21-25,  562-70,  418,1.  26- 
420,  570-74,  400-2,  480, 11.  4-19,  586,  11,  18-25,  434-40,  128-30, 
132-34,  442-44,  448-52,  456-64  of  Vol.  i. 

This  MS.  belongs  to  the  Book  of  Taliessin  type  of  wiiting,  and  was 
probably  written  on  the  Glamorgan  borders  (?  JsTeath)  as  evidenced  by 
a  artho,  a  lather,  a  rotho,  hyny  (for  yny),  &c.  Its  date  is  fixed  by  the 
following  passage  :  PeidyaO  weithon  awna6n  a  chyfreitheu  llys  .  kanyt 
oes  aruer  na  chrynodeb  a  honynt  yr  a6r  lion  (p.  7).  Prince  ILywelyn 
being  recently  dead,  the  Law  affecting  officers  of  the  Court  is  omitted 
(Vol.  i,  pp.  350-404).  It  is  also  probable  that  for  the  same  reason  the 
other  departures  were  made  from  the  order  and  arrangement  of  the  older 
MSS.  Apparently  this  MS.  is  the  oldest  now  known  of  what  is  called 
the  Dimetian  code,  and  it  is  a  misfortune  that  it  is  so  imperfect, 
especially  at  the  end.  Pages  147-152  belong  to  some  other  and  later 
MS. 

1  Hywel  da  o  rat  duO  mab  kadell  tywyfla6c  kymry  oil  a  welas  y 
gymry  yn  kam  aruer  o  gyfreith  a  defodeu  .  a  dyuyna6d  attaO  o  polD 
kymhOt  *  oe  teyrnas  chwe  gOyr  a  aruerynt  o  a6durda0t  ac  ygnadaeth  . 
a  lioll  egl6ylTwyr  y  teyrnas  a  aruerynt  o  teiljgda6t  bagleu  megys  arch- 
efcob  mynyO  .  ac  efcyb  ac  abadeu  .  A  phrioreu  hyt  y  lie  a  elwir  y 
ty  gOyn  ar  taf  yn  dyfet  y  ty  h6nn0  a  peris  ef  y  adeilat  6  wyal  gOyunyon 
yn  Hetty  idaO  Orth  hela  pan  delei  y  dyfet  .  ad  Orth  hymiy  y  gelwit  y 
ty  gOyn  .  Ar  brenhin   ar   gynnuUeitua   honno  atrigyaffant  yno  trOy  yr 

holl  rawys  ywediaO  du6  trOy  dyrweft  a  gOedi  perffeith On 

page  31  we  have  the  following  reference :  DjYfyr  kynaOc  adyweit  hagen 
bot  yn  ha6s  y  gredu  ef  or  dygir  y  da  ef  yn  lletrat  gyt  ar  Hall  &c.  (see 
Vol.  i,  p.  484).  The  text  ends :  Un  o  tri  a  gyll  y  neb  a  treifler  .  ae  y 
dyn  .  ae  y  tir  .  neu  da  arall  kychwyn  htibl .  Ae  y  vreint  .  Tri  ry w  amdiffyn 

147  The  fragment  begins:  mab  arall  or  wreic  or  offeirat  ny  dyly  y 
mab  agahat  kyn  noc  ef  kyffrannu  tir  ah6nn6  .  canys  yn  erbyn  dedyf 
y  kahat  .  Trydyd  yG  mut  cany  rodir  y  neb  nyt  atteppo  droftaG  .  Ac  ny 

rodir  gGlat   y  uut ends    (p.    152):    A   ffan   gyfarffo   y 

talaGdyr  ac  ef  .  yfpeilet  ef  oc  a  vo  ymdanaG  o  dillat  .  eitliyr  y  pilin 
neffaf  idaG  a  gGnaet  vylly  byth  hynny  gafTo  tal  y  da  y  gantaG  || 


MS.  36"  =  Hen.  312  or  Beta.  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da. 
Vellum;  5|  x  3|  inches;  80  pages  ;  late  xiiith  century,  with  sectional 
initials  in  red ;  now  separated  from  36^  and  bound  with  36*^  in  white 
vellum. 


370  PENIARTH    MAKUSCEIPT    36. 

That  this  MS.  was  never  a  complete  copy,  but  written  to  supply  the 
defect  of  some  otlier  IMS,,  may  be  inferred  from  the  second  half  of  the 
last  line  on  p.  V9  being  left  blank,  as  well  as  the  whole  of  p.  80,  which 
has  the  catchwords  o  tri  mod  at  the  bottom.  The  ciiiligraphy  is  very 
like  that  of  MS.  36*^,  but  it  can  hardly  be  by  the  same  hand.  There  is  no 
disposition  to  club  or  ligature  the  11  and  Ih  in  this  MS.  The  formation 
of  the  w,  aud  the  absence  of  the  bluish-green  initials  differentiates  it 
further  from  36*^. 

The  text  of  this  MS.,  which  is  the  N  of  ihe  Ancient  Laws  and 
Institutes  of  Wales,  corresponds  with  Vol.  i,  pages  338-40,  1.  15 ; 
344,  11.  4-6;  368-74,  392-408,  410-14,416-18,  420-24,  1.16;  426. 
1.  16-466,  1.  20  (last  word). 

Jn  nomi-ae  trino  hoc  opus  incipio. 

1  Hywel  da  o  rat  du6  iiab  kadell ,  brenhin  kymry  oil  a  welas  y  kymry 
yn  kamariier  o  gyfreitheu  a  dcuodeu  .  A  dyuynnaOd  attaO  o  poh 
kymhOt  ygkymry  whegOyr  a  aruerynt  o  a0darda6t  ag  ygnadaeth  .  A 
holl  eglOyfwyr  y  teyrnas  a  aruerynt  o  teilygdaOt  bngleu  .  Megys 
archelcob  mynyO  .  ac  efcyb  ac  abadeu  .  A  phrioreu  .  hyt  y  lie  a  elwir  y 
ty  gOyn  ar  taf  yn  dyfet  .  Y  ty  Ii6nn0  aperis  ef  y  adeilat  o  ivyal  gOynnyon 
yn  Hetty  idaO  Ortli  hely  pan  delei  ydyuet  .  Ac  6rth  hynny  y  gelwit  ef 
y  ty  g6yn  .  Ar  brenhin  ar  gynnulleitua  honno  atrigyaflant  yno  trOy  yr 

holl  grawys   y   wedia6   du6    tr6y  dyrweft   perffeith ends: 

[Tri  cham]  wercfcyn  yffyd  g6erefcy[n  yn  erjbyn  y  perohenhaOe  oe 
anuod  a  heb  vra6t  .  neu  werefcyn  ti-6y  y  pcrchenhaOc  ac  yn  erbyn  y 
etiued  o'^  anuod  a  heb  vraOt  .  neu  werefcyn  tr6y  wercheitwat  .  ac  yn 
erbyn  y  iaOn  dylyeta6o  oe  anuod  a  heb  vra6t  |  perch  enhaOc  yO  yneb  a  no 
yn  medu  y  dylyet  dilys  .  G6erchitwat  y6  y  neb  ugynhalyo  neu  warchatwo 
dylyet  dj-n  arall  o  tri  mod  || 


MS.  SG*^  =  Hen.  312.  Fragments  of  the  Laws  op  Howel  Da. 
Vellum'  (pp.  1-74)  and  Paper  (pp.  75-88)  ;  5^  X  4^  inches  ;  88  pages, 
gall  stained  ;  late  xvth  and  xvith  centuries  ;  bound  with  MS.  36". 

This  MS.  is  the  00  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  and 
pages  1-58  correspond  with  text  of  Vol.  ii,  pp.  210-58,  262-78, 
302-6.  Pages  59-60  =  Vol.  i,  p.  178,  1.  29-182,1.  17.  Pages  61-88 
contain  very  various  fragments  of  the  Laws. 

1  Lyma  y  gyniver  ford  ygwahana  dyn  ay  da  ac  y  kygain  idaO  y  holi 
yu  gyfreithial  lladrad  a  thrais  ac  aghyvaraylh  .  eehwyn  .  ac  adnev  .  a 
benthic  .  loc  .  a  chyfnewit  .  a  Uefgeth  .  gwareche  .  a  chechy wyn  .  aghyf- 

raithiawl ends :   Ac   ef  a  damwinei  hot  yn  vwy   i  farhaet 

nor  hwn  y  brenin  canys  o  bai  gentref  yn  eiffiev  yr  brenin  oy  gwoeth 
nev  a  bay  yd*  *  ar  ry  gafael  o  honaw  yutev  gwbyl  o  vraint  yr  edling 
a  allai  ovyn  i  vraint  wrthvnt  yny  lie  na  niadevhei  dim  oy  vraint  pa  el 
i  vedv  i  gywoethjl 

59  II  kenedyl .  melyn  .  acorret  aperllan  .'  ac  hy  renyr  namen  ev  frwythv . 

Tyr  eorflan  ny  delyr  ev  rannv  herwyth  tethenew ends :  os 

er  alldvdyon  heny  a  vennant  menet  yvrth  evharglwyt  cyn  ev  bot  en 
priodorion  adawent  banner  ev  da  vdvnt  ac  na  trigent  wyntev  en  er  enys 
hon  or  tvhwn  y  clawt  offa  nev  or  tv  hwn  er  inor  .  //  ac  os  tramor 
edhen|| 

61-4  Some  items  of  account,  and  excerpts  from  the  Laws. 

65  ILyma  decliyre  llevyr  kynawc  .  Saith  yfgobawt  yfydd  dan  dewi 
nit   am<Ten   Myniw   llandeillaw    Han   yffmael    kyledawc    llannffiUmael 


THE   LAWS   OF   HOWEL   DDA.  371 

degyman  Colbdedic  yw  bot  Afeadav  yn    yrai  liyny  yfgolheigion    &c. 
(Cf.  Vol.  i,  pp.  556-8.) 

66-88  Very  various  excerpts  from  the  laws  ending  with  :  browdwr  o 
vyraint  tir  ni  chaif  werth  dros  i  varn  canys  ardyreth  i  dir  yw  ai  wafaneth 
Yfbait  pop  browdwr  yw  irodi  brawt  rwiig  dadlevwyr  ouil'gwybyd  xv 
niwyrnot  cani  dyleir  golod  o?t  dadylev  yn  llai  o  amler  no  hyny  Ac  of 
browdwr  11 


MS.  37  =  Hen.  MS.  31.  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da.  Vellum; 
5|  X  4|  incbes;  156  pages  (pp.  153-156  being  in  court  band);  late 
xiiilh  century,  in  the  sanae  hand  apparently  as  35,  with  very  numerous 
sectional  initials  and  titles  in  rubrics;  partly  gall-stained,  but  complete 
— the  text  ending  as  in  the  original  hand  in  E  in  old  binding  newly 
covered  witli  pigskin. 

MoRO.  yw  Arwyddyn  y  Uyfr  hwn  yn  Neddgrawn  W.M.  canys  fcrifennedig  yn  y 
Ehaglith  yw  fal  hynn :  "  Ar  llyuyr  h6n  herwyd  Morgeneii  a  ehyfuerth  y  uab 
adigoiiet.''/  Transcript  per  W.M.  1663.  The  name  "Hugh  Johns"  occurs  on 
p.  41.  "  Robert  Vaughan  or  Heug6rt  a  darllenod  y  Uyfyr  h6a  oil.  A"  1626."  "Ac 
Aneurin  Owen  o  Nantglyn  ae  dadyfgrivodd  1826 "  (inside  front  cover  in  the 
respective  autographs  of  the  writers. 

The  text  of  this  MS.,  which  is  the  U  of  the  Ancient  Lmvs  and 
Institutes  of  Wales,  is  a  selected  one  (see  last  rubric  below)  and 
forms  the  basis  of  the  "  Gwentian  Code,"  in  Vol  i,  pages  620-48, 
1.  11 ;  650, 1.  24-664,1.  2;  648,  1.  12-650,  1.  23;  664,  1.  3-788,  1.  11 
=  MS.  pages  1-120,  1.  18.  The  MS.  text  of  pages  121,  1.  2-150, 
1.  13  =  Vol.  ii,  pp.  2-36,  L  17,  and  this  part  is  in  such  close  agree- 
ment -with  the  corresponding  part  in  Pen.  MS.  35  that  both  must  be 
from  the  same  archetype  or  the  one  is  a  copy  of  the  other.  Both 
MSS.  belong  to  the  same  school  of  writing  and  may  be  the  work  of  the 
same  scribe.  Page  151  =  VoL  ii,  p.  40,  sections  iii,  and  v,  and 
p.  46,  section  xxiii.     For  page  152,  &c.  see  below. 

1  Hywel  da  Mab  cadeft  brenhin  kymry  awnaeth  tr6y  rat  du6  adyrweft 
agwedi  can*  oed  eidya6  ef  kymvj  y  ny  chymry  .  Pedwar  cantref 
athrugeint  yn  deheubarth  .  A  deuna6  cantref  gOymA  .  Athrugein 
tref  trachyrchell  .  A  thrugein  tref  buellt  .  Ac  yn  teruyn  hynny  Nyt 
geir  geir  ne6  arwacZunt  h6y  A  geir  y6  eu  geir  hby  ar  paiih  :  Sef  yd 
oed  dT6c  dedueu  .  A  dryc  ^y/reitheu  hyn  noc  ef .  j  hyinyrth  yntew 
cAwe  gwyr  o  hob  kym6t  yg  kymry  Ac  yduc  hyt  yty  gwyn  ar  taf  .  A 
yeith  ugein  baglaOc  yr  r6g  efgyb  Ac  arc\ieigyb  .  Ac  ahbadeu  Ac 
athrawon  da  ywn&uthxxT  kyureitheu  da  Ac  y  diet  y  rei  drOc  a  oed  hyn 
noc  ef  .  Ac  y6  cadarnhau  yny  en6  ehun  Ac  or  niuer  hOnuO  y  dewiffOyt 
ydeudec  tteyc  doethaf  Ar  un  yfcolheie  kymhenhaf  y  wneuthur  y  k'eu 
hynny  .  Sef  awnaethant  h6y  pan  daruu  udunt  wneuth""^  y  k'eu  dodi 
emelidith  duG  Ac  un  y  gynnufteitua  honno  Ac  un  gymry  benbaladyr  ar 
yneb  atorhei  y  k'eu^hynny  .  Ar  JLtvyr  hOn  herwyd  Morgeneu  a  Chyf- 
NERTH  J  uab  adigonet  .  Ar   gwyr  hynny  oed  oreu  yn  eu  hamfer  ar 

cof  .  A  chyfreitheu Trydyd  pedwar  yffyd  pedwar  dyn  Nyt 

oes  naOd  udunt  Nac  yn  Hys  nac  yn  ftan  rac  brenhin  .  Un  o  honunt  dyn 
atorho  ynaOd  yn  un  or  teir  gCyl  arbenhic  yny  lys  .  Eil  y6  dyn  a6}  ftler 
oe  uod  yr  brenhin     Trydyd  y6  cGynoffa6c  brenhin     Pedweryd  y6  caeth. 

120-21  Byt  hyn  y  traethaffam  k'eu  Uys  A  chyfreitheu  yr 
gOlat  .  0  hyn  allan  .  or  damweineu  [rubric]. 

*  The  italicised  letters  and  words  have  been  retraced  by  a  late  hand  on  page  1. 


372  PENIAKTH   MANUSCRIPTS    37-38. 

Pob  kyulauan  awnel  dyn  oe  an  antiod  diwyget  oe  uod  .  .  .  ends : 
Ac  Orth  liynny  My  eftir  kymnii  da  He  ny  bo. 

150  Odej'uyd  y  wrcic  dywedut  ar  6r  na  aiio  bot  genti  .  Ac  o  hynny 
keiflaO  yfgar  ac  ei'  Ac.  (c/.  Vol.  i,  p.  98,  Lxvi.). 

152  Hyn  Ny  dylyir  credu  en,  tyftolaeth  [rubric]. 

Kaetli  .  Mut  .  Bydar  .  Ynuyt  canh6yna61  .  Neu  ruthraOc  .  Neu  a 
110  ieu  no  phedeir  blOyd  ardec  .  Hael  byrliouyaOc  a  treulho  y  hoS  da  . 
A  tygho  anudon  kyhoedaOc  .  A  torho  priodas  yn  gyhoeda6c  .  BradOr  . 
Neu  alado  ydat  .  Alycro  ifaGn  uath  .  Neu  awnel  cam  uath  .  Adycco 
da  egl6yflio  .  Neu  da  araft  o  egl6ys  .  A  gam  uarnho  gan  y  6ybot  . 
A  gytyo  agOr  arait  neu  ac  anyueil  araH  .  A  dycco  cam  tyftoHaeth  gan  y 
Gybot. 

Yma  yteruyna  corff.  A' .  ar  damweineu  ygyt  .  Maly  caOffam  ni  oreu 

153-56  O  TRi  mod  y  telir  drwy  dreis  /  xn  yw  pan  pallo  reitb  y 
dyn  yn  gwadu  treis  .  Eil  yw  pan  ballo  y  amdiffyu  yr  amdiffynnwr  yn 
erbyn  dyn  &c. 

These  pages  are  so  pall  stained  as  to  be  partly  illegible,  especially  the  last  page, 
but  the  text  ajjrees  with  Vol.  I.  p.  464, 1.  3-4/2, 1.  2. 

N.B. — There  are  numerous  marginalia  in  a  XTth  century  hand  (?). 


MS.  38  =  Hen.  MS.  19.  The  Laws  op  Howel  Da.  Vellum ; 
5|x4|  inches;  pages  i-iv,  1-138;  end  wanting;  *xvth  century; 
bound  in  vellum. 

■  "  Liber  Joh'is  Watkyn  Jeuan  "  (p.  ii.)  in  the  same  hand  as  "  Liber  .Toh'is  Lewis  " 
in  many  MSS.  below.  On  p.  106  occurs  "  Nouen'nt  vmuerfi  pe;-  pre/entes  nos 
howellum  thomas  de  Uanvigan  in  com'  Brecon'  yoman  et  dauidem  thomas  de 
eadem  in  com'  Brecon'  yoman  teneri  et."     See  p.  iii  also. 

This  MS.  is  the  I  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales; 
its  text  is  apparently  based  on  Peniarth  MS.f  36a,  and  it  supplies 
a  portion  of  the  text  missing  from  that  MS.  The  order  of  the  text 
corresponds  with  Vol.  i,  pages  338-40,  344-50,  404-18,  422-32, 
SO^-U,  420-22,  534-50,  466-68,  550-56,  432-34,  484-92,  414-16, 
514-28,  556-G2,  418,  568-72,  562-68,  572-76,  492-502,  576-86, 
370-74,  468-84,  440,  434-62,  464-66,  686,  400-2,  396-98,  462, 
588-90,  1.  15. 

1  Hy6el  da  o  rat  du6  mab  kadell  vrenhin  kymry  oil .  a  Gelas  y  kymry 
yn  kamarueru  o  gyfreitheu  a  deuodeu  a  dyuynn6ys  atta6  h6eg6yr  o  bob 
kymhOt  yghymry  a  aruerynt  o  aCdurdaOt  ac  ygnataeth  .  A  hollegl6yf6yr 
yteyrnas  a  aruerynt  o  teilygda6t  bngleu  .  megys  arcAefcob  mynyO  .  Ac 
efcyb  ac  abateu  aphrioreu  hyt  y  He  a  elGir  y  ty  g6yn  yn  dyf et  .  y  tyh0un6 
a  beris  ef  y  adeilat  o  6yal  gOynnou  yn  Uety  ida6  pan  delei  y  dyfet 
y  hela  .  Ac  Crth  hynny  y  gelGit  ef  y  ty  gOyn  .  ar  brenhin  ar  gynnuUeitua 
honno  a  trigyaffant  yno  tr6y  yr  hoU  ara6ys  y  6edia0  duO  tr6y  dyrOeft 
perfeith  .  ac  y  erclii  rat  ar  darpar  y  brenhin  y  6ellau  kyfreitheu  a 
deuodeu  kymi-y  .  ac  or  nifer  h6nn0  pan  deruynaOd  y  graOys  .  y  deOifl'aM 
y  brenhin  y  deudec  Ueyc  doethaf  oe  Oyr  .  ar  vn  yfcolheic  doethaf  .  aelOit 
yr  athro  vlegyOryt  y  lunyaethu  ac  y  fynh6yra6  idaO  ac  y  teyrnas 
kyfreitheu  ac  arueroed  yn  berfeil.h  ac  yn  neffaf  y  gellit  yr  Girioned  a 


*  This  MS.  is  not  so  old  as  it  appears  ;  it  is  imitative  of  a  style  a  century  older. 
An  orthographical  slip  like  kattfiai  in  the  preface  could  not  occur  in  the  xrrth 
century  as  far  as  our  experience  goes. 

t  Unless  it  is  later  than  the  MS.  S,  which  has  not  yet  been  exammed. 


THE   LAWS   OF  HOWEL  DDA.  373; 

iaOnder  .  ac  ydercbis  y  hyfcrifennu  yn  teir  ran ac   y  dodet 

emelltith  du6  ar  eidaO  ynt(3u  ar  hon  gymry  oil  ar  y  neb  nys  kattOai  rae 
UaO    megys   y   goflodet   j'na    ony    ellit  y   gOellau  o  gyfundeb  gOlat   ac 

argl6yd PeidaO  6eithon  aOnaOn  a  chyfreitheu  fOydogyon  llys- 

y  brenhin  .  kanyt  oes  na  reit   nac  aruer  o  honunt  .  a  dechieu  iiGnaOn  o 

gyfreitheu  gOlat ends :     Y  neb  avynho  UyiTu  tyllolyaeth  TjOaGl 

aet  yn  erbyn  y  tylton  ar  eu  geir  .  Odyua  ar  eu  116  athyw^et  nat  tyft 
kyfreithaOl  arna6  ac  enOet  yr  aclia6s  .  ady6edet  tygu  anudon  or  tylt 
athyltet  y  deu  Or  nat  aeth  yn  tyft  yn  erbyn  yr  achaOs  y  lIylT6yd  .  Ar  den 
hynny  g6rth  tyfton  ygel6iV  a  dilis  vydant  .  Gal6  gCybydyeit  aellir  yr 
amler  y  mynho  |1 


MS.  39=Hen.  MS.  38  (numbered  "  7  "  previously).  The  LA^vs  op 
HowEL  Da.  Vellum  ;  4|^  x  3|  inches  ;  folios  i-iv,  1-78,  of  which  many 
are  misplaced  ;*  circa  1500  ;  in  old  binding. 

Y  llyuyr  hwnn  a  beris  Ho'  ap  gr.  lloyd  y  lewys  yfcgolheic  o  lann 
vynnydd  y  yfgriueunv  o  ddethol  y  llyfrev  Gorev  ac  a  gauaf  ef  (fol.  716). 
The  manusci'ipts  used  were,  apparently,  Titus  D.  ii.  in  the  Harleian 
Collection,  and  Pjeniarth  MSS.  32  and  35. 

Lew.  yw  Anvyddjn  y  llyfr  h\vn  yn  Neddfgrawn  WM.  Nid  oes  yn  y  llyfr  Invo 
ddim  ond  y  10  .  ualen  cyntaf,  nad  yw  yu  Lib.  Jor.  ab  Mad.  (IV. 6).  "  Seynt  leon 
y'  pope  wret  yis  letter  and  fend  hit  to  kyng  charlis  and  fcid  he  y'  berith  y'  letter  on 
hym  n'  dare  he  no3t  drede  of  hys  enemys  to  be  ouercom,  &c.  (fol.  74  in  early  16th 
century  hand — the  ^l'o^d  "  pope  "  is  erased). 

The  text  of  this  MS.  was  not  used  by  the  editor  of  the  Ancient  Laws 
and  Institutes  of  Wales,  but  it  corresponds,  practically,  from  folio  12 
onward,  with  Vol.  i,  pages  214r-6,  22(1-2,  226,  200-4,  126,  1.  3-132, 
1.  4;  116,  1.  26-126,  1.  2  ;  132,  L  32-146,  1.  27  ;  156,  ].  22-158,  1.  20; 
162, 1.  14-166, 1.  3  ;  244,  1.  5-246,  1.  20  ;  252, 1. 15-262, 1.  2  ;  80, 1.  8-90, 
1.3;  170, 1.  17-182,  1.23;  204,  1.12-214,1.  15 ;  314,  1.  24-322,  1.  10; 
432, 1. 19-434, 1.  26.  Vol.  ii,  cp.  368-70  =  fol.  1 ;  pp.  374-8  =  fol.  2-4 ; 
pp.  352-4  =  fol.  4-5;  p.  398  =  fol.  5b;  p.  390  =  fol.  5b-Q ;  400-4 
=  fol.  66-86;  3i8,  1.  29-322,  1.  22  =  fol.  166-195;  pp.  168,  1.  17-170, 
1.  10,  and  pp.  8-10  =  fols.  72-4  and  75-7.  Folios  10-116  =  Vol.  i, 
pp.  294-308,  except  that  the  greater  part  of  two  folios  between  10  and 
11  have  been  cut  out.  The  text  of  a  few  passages  in  the  MS.  have  not 
been  identified. 

fol.  l.||  orry6  vod  arait  y  deule  hynny  heuyt  adylyir  eu  kynnal  yn 
Hys  dygynnuft  ac  euteruynu  kany  ofodet  y  neb  oc  auei  yu  kynal  tir 
trOy  weithret  obleit  iaOu  arglOyd  neu  yn  gouyn  tir  a  geffit  dr6y  weithret 
gan  arglOyd  y  ba  vod  bynnac  y  keffit  ae  arwerth  ae  yghyuarGs  ac  yn 
rybuchet  araft  Attep  yn  Hys  dadleu  k6m6t  neu  gantref  dr6y  nach'of 
ne  detryt  megys  breliyr  neu  araH  kany  oflbdet  y  ghyfreith  teruynu  ia6n 
arglOyd  yny  rryO  iys  honno  os  y  Hys  dygynuH  *  *  aymlykaa  gwneuther 
gorthrymder  megys  y  dyOefpOyt  y  brennin  a  dyly  yn  diohir  gOaret  yr 
aghyfreith  kany  dylyir  herwyd  .  kynnal  gweithret  ny   eHit  y  wneuthur 

yn  gyfreitliaOl ends :  Ny  eHir   kymell  dyn   eglOyfic  y  Grtheb 

y  neb  o  vaes  y  fcnedd  or  kameu  a  dyOetter  .  arfiaO  ,  [TJrI  ryO  vreint 
yffyd  breint  annyanaOl  .  abreint  fOydd  .  abreint  .  tir 


*  Folios  47-54  should  follow  fol.  21,  and  fol.  5.5,  &o.  should  come  after  fol.  44. 


374  PENIARTH   MANUSCillPTS"  39-40, 

At  the  end  there  is  a  fra<!;ment  of  a  leaf  inserted  by  binder  containing 
farming  account  for  August  1586.  One  of  the  items  reads  :  Reping 
barlie  at  hen[llys]  die  fabathi  xxvii°  Au[gulti]  .  ho  ell  brechfaj  -fohn 
will'm,  Will'm  ^ohn  tumor,  Gwenllian young —  [hired],  &c.  There  are 
also  two  similar  fragments  at  the  beginning  of  the  MS.  (ii.  &  iii.). 


MS.  40  =  TTen.  18.  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da,  some  Poetry 
and  a  Kalendak.  Vellum ;  6^  x  4f  inches ;  pages  i-vi,  1-252 ; 
circa  1469  (p.  233) ;  partially  gall-stained,  but  otherwise  well  preserved ; 
all  sectional  initials  and  titles  are  in  rubrics  ;  bound  in  leather. 

It  would  appear  from  a  statement  in  the  rubric  on  F^g6  5  that  this  MS.  is  in  the 
autograph  of  Leivis  Glyn  Cothi,  and  since  the  four  poems  at  the  beginning  are 
addressed  to  the  lord  of  Keven  Llys,  we  may  infer  that  the  MS.  was  written  for 
leuan  ap  Philip,  "  Conftable." 

"  Kalan  yw  avwyddyn  y  Uj'fr  hwn  yn  Neddfgrawn  WM.  totu  exeripf  .  vel 
e.\;aminavi  ad  nru  Jot.  1662  "  (p.  vi.) 

Pages  i-v  and  1-2  are  blank. 

3       lewan  ap  philip  ^euOr  ir  byt     ....  a 

J  uelienyd  yn  ulaenor     .... 
Du  a  da  ydOyt  Jewan. 

5  JLyma  gerd  Jeuan  ap  ph.  M)[n]ftabi/l  hefyn  llys   A  llyma 

i  ariieti  o  blegijt  iuam  a  ...  dd  .  .  .  let  .  leOys  glyn 

kuthi  ai  kant  ac  ai  hyfcriuenod. 
Fa  Oalh  gyftalh  am  gaftell     ....  6 

Ar  gaftell  lyOiaOdyr  gyftal.  , 

6  [Y]  gOr  enOoc  or  ynys     ....  e 
DuO  yn  geidOat  i  jeuan. 

7  [D]y<l  da  ii"  Otei[c]da  a  roes,  d 
DraO   ym  Gin  .  .  .  -  oi  llaO  nghefn  fiys     .     .     .     . 

Ai  chyOyd  i  uerch  Jewan. 
9  A  kalendar  with  the  following  -feast  and  Saints'  Days.     (Rubrics 
in  the  MS.  are  printed  here  in  italics.) 

Mis  ^onaGr:— 1st,  Du6  kalan  Jona6r ;  6th,  G6yl  yft6yft ;  I3th, 
G6yl  ^lar  elcob  a  chonffeflaOr  ;  19th,  G,  faint  Olftan  efcop ;  25th, 
G6yl  ba6l  pan  droes  irffyd. 
Mis  Ch6euraGr  :— Ist,  GOyl  font  ifret ;  2nd,  G6yl  uair  y  cannOylleu  ; 
9th,  G6yl  deilo  efcop  .  conjfefor ;  14th,  G.  ualeMtini ;  22nd, 
G.  Bedyr  yn  choeurof ;  24th,  G.  uathias  eboftol ;  28th,  G. 
faut  offGallt  arcliefcop. 
Mis  ma6rth;— 1st,  G()yl  de6i  archefcop  ;  12th,  G.  grigpr  bap  ;  ISth, 
G.  EdGart  urenin  ;  21sf,  G.  Behet. 

YmaGrth  mat  nit  gGat  gOedi  kyntaf  . 

G.  fyll  y  pnf  neGydaf 

Ar  trydyd  ful  cyd  cGydaf 

jf  feilir  pafc  naGd  dafc  naf 

Mis  EbriH  :— 2nd,  GGyl  uair  or  aifft;  4th,  G.  ambros  efcop  ;  23rd, 

G.  faint  george ;  25th,  G.  uark  .  vengyliOr. 
Mis  Mai :— 1st,  G6yl  phylip  ajago  ;  3rd,  G6yly  groc ;  6th,  G. 

^ewanborth  ftadin;  19th,  G.  dGnftan  arch  efcop;  25lh,  G[Gyl] 

urban*  *  *  * 


'    TH£  LAWS   OF  HOVVEL   DDA.  375 

Mis  Meheuin  : — 11th,  G.  barnubas  eboftol ;  IStb,  G.  giiin.  AJulite 
i  nam  .  ef  ;  23rd,  G-.Jeuan  iiedydior  ;  27ih,  G.  faint  leo*  *  *  ; 
29th,  G.  bedijr  aphaCl. 

Mis  Gorffenna:— 7th,  G.  ******  ;  15th,  G.  ge6y[l  ;  20th, 
G.  tiargret  6yrij  ;  22nd,  G.  uair  nadlen ;  25tli,  G.  Jago 
ebojtol ;  27th  G.  y  .  vii.  cyfgadur. 

MisAGlt: — 1st,  G.bedyr  eboftol ;  10th,  G.la6rensu^-ctliijr  ;  15th, 
G.  uair  yn  a6ft ,-  24th,  G.  bartholomeus  ;  29th,  G.  Jeuan  ucchan. 

Mis  Medi : — 8th,  G.  uair  y  medi ;  14th,  G.  y  r/roc ;  21st,  G. 
uathias  eboflol ;  29th,  G.  mi  hang  el  archangel;  30th,  G.  faint 
^eron  efferiat. 

Mis  hvdref: — 9th,  G.  faint  denis;  G.  Luc  vengylidr ;  28th,  G. 
fimon  a  Jud. 

Mis  Eacuyr*  : — 1st,  G.  yr  holl  feint ;  2nd,  G.  yr  eneidieu  ; 
11th,  G .  faint  martin  efcop  ;  23rd,  G.  clement  pab^  ;  25th,  G. 
faint  y  liatrin ;  30th,  G.  andras  .  eboftol. 

MisTachOfdt : — 6th,  G.  faint  nicolas  efcop  ;  13th,  G.  luce  .  Oyry  ; 
21st,  G.  tomas  eboftol ^  25th,  DuO  nadolic  i  ganet  \v  ifeffii  ; 
26th,  G.  yftyphan  uerthyr ;  27th,  G.  Jeuan  euengylfir ;  28th, 
G.  y  uil  ueibion ;  29th,  G.  tomas  archefcop\;  31  st,  G.  fdup.ftr 
bap.  I 

21-234  The  Laws  of  Howel  Da,  compiled  apparently  from  the 
Harleian  MS.,  Cahgui.a  A.  in.,  and  Peniarth  MS.,  32.  This  MS. 
is  the  K  of  the  Ancient  Lavjs  and  Institutes  of  Wales,  aud  pp.  21-67, 
67-126= Vol.  i,  pp.  214-334, 110-214;  pp.  154-165  =  Vol.  ii,  pp.  2- 
34  -with  omissions;  pp.  166-170  =  Vol.  ii,  pp.  42-48;  pp.  147-149, 
l72-224  =  Vol.  ii,  pp.  98-126  but  with  many  omissions,  and  changed 
order  of  the  sections.  Pages  126-144  contain  a  series  of  triads  brought 
together  from  different  sections  of  the  Laws,  some  belong  to  the 
"  Venedotian"  and  some  to  the  "  Dimetian  "  codes.  Pages  225-232 
contain  matter  selected  from  the  Laws  and  rearranged,  ending  (pp.  233- 
234)  with  the  "pleading"  (dated  the  8th  year  of  Edward  iv.),  given 
below. 

1  The  text  begins  :  Hy6el  da ap  kadell  ty6yffoo  kymry  a  dyf;,nod  atto 
chOegOyr  o  bop  kantref  ynghymry  oil  hyt  y  ty  gOynn  ar  daf  y  nyvet  . 
A  hynuy  or  gOyr  doelhaf  yny  kyuoeth  .  Y  pedOar  o  nadunt  yn  lleygion 
Ar  deu  yn  yfgolheigion  .  ac  fef  aches  i  ducp6yt  yr  yfcolheigion  .  rac 
dodi  or  lleygion  betheu  a  uo  yn  erbyn  yr  yfgruthyr  Ian  .  Ac  fef  amfer 
i  doethan  yno  .  pethefnos  a  mis  or  gra6ys  ....  Ac  yna  i  dechreufant  y 
kyfreithieu  .  Ar  hoii  a  uai  rydrom  i  chofp  o  nadunt  i  lleihau  .  Ar  honn  uai 
ry  uechan  i  hych6anegu  .  Peth  ov'kyfreith  aada6ffan  uai  i  doedynt  Peth 
arall  aemendaffan  .  EreilL  a  dileaffan  yn  gObl  Acynai  dodafan  emelltith 
\\owel  da  a  hynny  o  doethion  ar  yr  argl6yd  a  fymutei  yr  un  or  k'eu  hynny . 
Narayn  gan  duundeb  kynulleidua  kymint  ac  a  uu  yno  &c.  ....  ends  : 
BjYMA  g6yn  galanas.  ILyma  g6yu  ]feua«  ap  madoc  ap  ^ankyn  ap  dd' 
ap  madoc  .  herOyd  bot  y  deuparth  oblait  y  tat  .  ar  traean  o  blait  iuam 
^eua»  ap  dd'  yr  h6nn  adoeth  Meredud  ap  pli'  .  ac  a6naeth  lleas  yr 
enOedic  ^euan  h6nn0  .  nit  amgen  vod  no  dyuot  y  I'ac  dyOededic  M'edud 
yna  digOyl  ^eucm  o  veOn  6ythnos  y  nadolic  .  Oet  yr  arglOyd  vrenin 
ed6ard  bedO}'ryd  gOedi  conqueft  .  viij  .  mlyned  i  dy  Eys  ap  meredud  yn 
aOr  banner  dyd  .  achyrchu  cyrch  cyhoedaOc  angliyuiaOn  .  trOy  lit  a  bar 
a  gOenOyndra  ac  anghyuarch  ac  amarch  ir  arglOyd  ac  ir  argylOydiaeth  ac 

♦Bead  •«  Tach6e(J."  t  "  pal> ''  erased.  t  Ecad  "  Eaciiyr." 


376  PESIAETH   MANUSCRIPTS   40-41. 

ir  genedyl  .  trOy  rjnn  ac  ofgrynn  a  dryaf  a  goflbt  achledyf  tri  aGcliaOI 
bogelgrOn  blaenllym  Uifedic  a6cha61  tri  cupyt  yni  hyt  a  llet  palyf  yni  "  let 
yndo  .  A  drychaf  a  golTot  o  rac  dy6ededicM'edud  h6nn0  .  ar  yrenOedic 
Jeuan  .  A  gOneuthur  klais  a  briO  ac  yflic  .  A  chnilliia6  gOallt  bonOyn  .  a 
gOarthrudiaO  arkillieu  .  athOnn  ar  groen  ac  ar  gic  ac  ar  afg6rn  .  a  gOeli 
egoret  .  a  brath  tri  naOetyd  periglus  anglieua61  .  a  gOaet  gellyngedic 
llithredic  colledic  .  O  benn  hyt  rann  .  O  rann  hyt  lenn  .  O  lenn  hyt 
lin  .  0  lin  hyt  troet  .  O  droet  hyt  laOr  .  A  gOneuthur  tir  yr  argi6yd  ya 
Gaedlyt  ti"6y  ainarch  ac  anghyuarch  a  mefyl  achy6ilyd  a  farhaet  alleas 
a  chollet  ac  eiflieu  ir  arglOyd  ac  ir  genedyl  .  Ac  os  adef  deiflyf  i  6erth 
megis  i  mae  i  vraint  .  "j  uraiut  y6  i  vot  yn  vchelOr  ryd  breiniaOl  .  Ac  os 
amheuir  i  mae  gitac  ef  ai  gorchyOira  .  GOerth  uchel6r  trugein 
morck  .  deiffyf  yr  araouynbleit  atocli  ch6itheu  y  medianu  ffeit  .  herOyd 
n&  Gnaeth  kyureith  ir  arglOyd  rann  o  6erth  neb  .  onit  trCy  beri  ir 
amovynbleit  eu  c6byl  .  A  liyn  y6  defnyd  c6yn  yr  enOedic  cOynOyr 
hyii  .  rac  yr  enOedic  M'edud  rako  yffyd  yn  gyndrychaOl. 

The  original  scribe  ends  here,  but  five  lines  are  added  in  a  later 
hand,  and  the  remainder  of  the  MS.  is  in  different  hands. 

235       ffwun  addanvonef  iefv     .... 

Ar  £Eon  goU  orfEcn  i  gan  Dauit  loit. 

238  POy    bynac    a    farhaho  y    gilydd,  o  werin    y  pedeirgwlat  hyn, 
dehevbarth,  gwynedd,  powys,  lloegyr,  &c. 

239  Pedwar  rwym  dadl  ynt  y  rai  hyn  :  yn  gyntaf  pwy  a  liolych,  pa 
beth  a  holych,  pa  veint  a  holych,  pa  amler  i  holych,  &c. 

242  Gwerth  racddant  dyn  xxiiij,  &c. 

243  Uyma  yr  a6grim  mvd  ar  gorff .  A  .  yw  y  vawd  .  b  ,  yw  y  bys 
neffa  yr  vawd  .  C  y6  yr  ael  .  d  .  yw  y  dant,  &c. 

244  and  249  hare  certain  "soribWings,"  and  the  other  pages  are  blank. 


MS.  41  =  Heu.  304.  The  Statute  of  Euudlan*  in  Welsh. 
Vellum  ;  5|  X  4^  inches ;  42  pages — the  upper  halves  of  pages  1-8, 
as  well  as  the  inner  top  corners  of  pp.  9-26,  have  been  destroyed  by 
rats  or  mice  since  1605  when  they  were  copied— see  MS.  224  infra;. 
late  xvth  century ;  headings  and  sectional  initials  in  red  ;  bound  in 
white  vellum. 

'■  Liber  ll'n  y  glynn  "  (p.  33),  generally  supposed  to  be  the  same  man  as  Lewj-s 
Glyn  Cothi.     The  -writing  of  this  MS.  is  not  the  same  as  No.  40  above. 

II  Ac  weithian  ev  rwymo  ev  kyvvnaw  oy  rat  ef  [a  r]odes  drwy  y  vod  . 
Ac  ai  hymchwelawd  ymhriodolder  y  arglwydiaeth  ehun  wrth  goron 
y  dyyrnas  [fal]  aeJot  wrth  gorff  hyny  .  gwnawn  innev  yn  dwywawl 
traethu  daear  wyned  achymry  oil  .  Ac  ev  Hywyaw  ar  anryded 
amoliant  duvv  ar  eglwjs  a  dyledus  lowodraeth  .  A  hynny  i  bawp 
ar  a  vo  danav  *  *  #  *  gad[arn  ac]  yn  dragywydawl  y[n  y]gwla- 
doed  o  hynn  allan  yny  frwyth  yd  yfgriuennir  rac  Haw  .  Ni  a 
offodwn  vot  ^uftus  yngwyned  y  gynnal  llowodraeth  a  hedwcli  dros 
y  hwynep  Ac  y  bawp  a  dalyo  wrthynt  y  rodi  iawn  her w  yd  bryvedeu 
breiniawl  yffyd  yn  dyfc  ndunt  Ac  yn  anghyfreith  .  A  ni  a  offodwn 
hot  firyvyeit  achwrnerieit  .  A  raglouyeit  kymydev  dros  gymry  .  "Viccwnt 

*  See  Statutes  of  the  Realm,  Anno  1284,  vol.  i,  p.  55  (London,  1810).  Also  the 
liecord  of  Caernarvon,  p.  119  (London,  1837). 


HISTOfilA   REGUM   BRITTANNIE.  377 

mon  .  Vicownt  kaer  yn  arvon  .  Ac  i  danaw  kantref  ***...  .  ends  : 
Nev  cv  mwyhav  nev  ev  fteihav  nev  ev  dvaft  mal  y  bo  bot  gennym 
gynnal  y  wlat  yn  dahun  diogel  kanys  y  pynkev  hynny  ymynnwu  iii 
-ai-ver  onadunt  o  gyfreithiev  lloegyr  mal  y  meneic  uchot  Ac  yn 
dylloliaeth  y  hynny  i  rodalTam  ni  yn  inlellev  arnadunt. 

Ac  yn  rudlan  yd  honnet  y  c/offodev  hynn  dino  fidhanner  y  grawys yn 
yr  vnvet  vlwydyn  ar  dec  o  oet  yn  hrenhiniaeth  ni  .  Ac  val  hynn  y 
tereynant  y  goffodev  ar  gymry  .  Ar  hrenhin  a  orchymynnwys  bot  dav 
'bar  0  nadunt  ym  hop  kymwt  vn  llad'm  .  Ac  vn  hymraec  i  rybtidyaio 
kymry  rac  gwneuthur  kam  a  chymry  yny  goffodev  hynny  nac  ar 
wyntev. 

Explicit  liber  Hn  y  glynn. 

34  Ni  dyly  kwynwr  kiliaw  or  orffed  heb  gytvbundeb  y  blait  arall. 
Cans  parot  y  dyly  kwynwr  vot  Ac  amdifEytinwr  drwy  wadu  kam  ac 
angbyureith  yr  llys  o  anuod  y  kwynwr  a  dyly  kiliaw  allan  y  vsdyliaw 

OS  mynn  &c.  &c ends  :  ac  o  metba  yr  exceps  a  mynnv  rodi 

arall  gwadu  kam  ac  anghyureith  yr  Uys  o  ne^cyd  .  a  hynny  a  vyd  rait 
am  bob  exceps  .  ffurf  farhaet 

3S  Twelve  Hues  obliterated — Jeffre  Eobt  ai  ylgrifenodd. 

-37-41  These  pages  have  a  few  disconnected  lines  on  them. 

42  This  page  contains  sixteen  lines  in  Latin  which  are  scarcely  legible. 


MS.  42  =  Hen.  316  [numbered  "22"  previously].  Gai.fridi 
MoNEMUTENSis  HiSTORiA  Kegum  Brittannie.  Vellum  ;  7  X  5|  inches  ; 
77  folios ;  first  quarter  of  the  xiiith  century  ;  bound  in  calf. 

This  Latin  text  is  practically  the  same  as  that  printed  by  Giles  in  1S44,  and  the 
divisions  into  chapters  and  subsections  largely  agree.  The  MS.,  however,  omits 
"  §  2  ad  Alexaudrum  "  on  p.  119.  On  folio  776  there  is  a  list  of  English  kings  from 
Alfred  to  Henry  m. 

fol.  1  Cuji  MECUJi  multa  t  de  multis  fejii'  aio  reuoluef  i  hiltoriam 
Eegii  brittanie  icideixi  .  i  mirii  otuli  qd'  infra  catione  .  q*  .  de  eif 
Gildaf .  1  beda  luculnto  fctatu  fecant  .  nich'  de  regib;  q'  aii  icaruatone 
xpi  ihabllauant  .  nicli'  1;  de  Arturo  .  cet'ifq,  cii  pJib;  q"  p°  icarnatonem 
fuccelTerut  reppilYem  .  c  1  gefta  eox  digna  et'nitate  laudcf  conl'tavet  .  t 
a  multif  pplif  .  q"  i  fcripta  iocunde  .  't  memorit'  pdicenf  ....  ends  : 
de  Iiyl'toria  eoa  ueracif^  editu  in  lionore  pdictoa  p'ncipii  hoc  m"  in 
ilatiuii  iermonem  fnfferre  ctk4.v^  ; 


IMS.  43  =  Hen.  317  [numbered  "  24  "  previously].  Liber  historie 
•GENTis  britonum,  by  Geoffrey  of  jSIonmouth.  Vellum  ;  5^  x  Bf  inches  ; 
172  folios;  xivth  century ;  bound  in  leather. 

This  book  belonged  to  John  Bates,  of  Thame,  near  Oxford. 

fol.    1     Anglia     olim     Albion     dicebatur     t     liabet     inhabitatores 

gigantes ends:     Et  sic  Veritas  historic  de  primis  habitatoribus 

huius  terre  .  Explicit  de  gigantibus. 

fol.  5  The  History  of  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  without  the  usual 
jirologue.  The  text  seems  to  be  much  the  same  as  in  the  preceding 
MS.,  except  for  additional  matter  immediately  before  Merlin's  Prophecy 
{see  fols.  So^  and  87). 

e    E8t30.  F 


378  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPTS  43-44. 

Jn  nomine  trino  hoc  opus incipio. 

Britannia  infularum  optima  in  occidentali  occeano  inter  galliaiTi  et 

hiberniam    lita ends :     quern    de   historia   eoruin    ueraciter 

editum  in  honore  predictorum  principum  hoc  mode  in  latinum  fermonem 
tranfferre  curavi. 

Explicit  historia  gentis  britonum. 


MS.  44=Hen.  315  fnumbered  "21  "  previously].  Brut  y  Bken- 
niNEC  Vellum;  6^  x  5f  inches;  first  half  of  the  xnith  century j 
74  pages  having  32  lines  to  the  page,  and  large  red  lettois  floriated  with 
green  as  initials  to  the  different  sections ;  bound  in  leather. 

This  is  one  of  the  three  oldest  Welsh  MSS.  of  Geoffrey  of  Mon- 
mouth's Historia  Regum  Britannie.  The  first,  second,  and  third 
gatherings  arc  complete — the  fourth,  fifth,  &c.  are  bound  up  with 
another  version  in  Sliirburn  Castle  MS.  113.  C.  18.  There  is  one  stray 
leaf  (pp.  73-4)  after  the  third  gathering  in  the  same  hand,  as  well  as 
seven  folios  (pp.  75-88)  of  continuation  in  a  hand  of  the  early  sixteenth 
century.  This  is  the  oldest  MS.  known  of  the  TLevelys  version,  compare 
Brut  Gr:  ab  Arthur  in  Vol.  ii,  of  the  3Iyv:  Arch:  of  Wales. 

The  name  of  Jaspar  Griffith  occurs  in  Hebrew  characters  on  the  margin  of  p.  7. 

1  Eneas  escwydwyn  gwedy  emlad  tro  a  dyftryw  e  kaer  [ac  esca]- 
nyvs  y  vap  y  gyt  ac  ef  a  ffoes  ac  ar  loghev  a  doethan  [liyt]  eg  gwlat  er 
eidal  .  Ac  ena  y  kymyrth  latynys  vrenyn  ef  en  anrydedvs  .  Ac  ena  e 
kyghorvynnvs  tvra  brenyn  rvtyl  vrthav  ac  ed  emladvs  ac  ef  .  Ac  en  er 
emlad  hynny  e  gorvu  eneas  .  ac  e  lladavd  tyrn  ac  e  gorefcynnys  er  eydal 
ac  ekymyrth  lavynya  merch  latynys  en  gwreyc  ydaO  .  Ac  ena  gwedy 
marv  eneas  e  kavas  afcanyvs  e  vrenhynyaetli  ac  edeylvs  e  dynas  agwjii 
ar  er  avon  a  elwyr  tyberj's  .  A  map  a  anet  ydav  ac  edoter  fylvyvs  arnav. 
Ar  map  hynny  gwedy  henny  *  *  *  a  emrodes  en  lladrat  y  odyneb  ac  a 
Isydy  vs  a  nyth  y  lavynya  ae  beychyogi  .  Ac  ena  gwedy  gwybot  o  afcanyvs 
ytat  ef  henny  ef  aerchj's  oy  dewynyon  gwybot  pwy  oed  tat  e  beychyogy  . 
Ac  gwedy  kaffael  or  dewynyon  gwybot  ho  *  *  *  o  henny  .  wynt  a 
dywedaffan  yr  brenyn  y  bot  en  veychyawg  ar  vap  [a]  ladey  y  vam  ae 
tat  .  Ac  ygyt  a  henny  a  grwydr[eyj  ]a[werj  yr  oed  ac  or  dywed 

a  daw  ar  orwuchel  anrydcd  .  Ac  ny  thwyllys  ey  dewynyldabacth 
wynt  .  kanys  pan  dywu  y  thym  oe  vam  y  eghy  efcorws  ar  was  .  ac  ena 
e  by  varw  y  vam  .  Ac  ena  e  roded  emap  arvaeth  ac  |  [y]  dodet  brvtvs 

arnav ends  :  Debre  y  gyt  a  my  ep  ef  hyt  en  enys  prydeyn  .  a 

chymer  coron  evrenhynyaeth  eno  .  Evdaf  brenyn  enys  prydeyn  hen  ew 
weythyon  a  chlawus  .  ac  nyt  eydvna  dyn?  namyn  kaffael  er  ryw  gwr 
yevanc  bonhedyc  yr  rody  y  vn  verch  ydav  a  theyrnas  enys  prydeyn 
icenthy  kanyt  oes  vn  map  ydav  .  a  wledycho  gwedy  ef  .  Ac 
vrth  II*********  73]|  brathv  edelfflet  ae  kymhell  ar  ffo..  a 
Had  or  faeffon  chwe  gwyr  a  chwechant  .  a  dec  myl  .  Ac  em  parth 
ekymry  ena  eU.as  Bledrys  tewyffavc  kernyw   e   gwr   oed  pennhaf  or 

kyrary  en  er  emlad  hvnnv ends :  a  dangos  ydav  edewyn  ed  oed 

eny  keyflyav  a  dothoed  ena  o  damweyn  y  edrych  ar  rannv  alvffen  yr 
aghanogyon.  Ac  ena  || 

75-88   II  ai  gjmell   ar   fo   yn  vrathedic    a  \\&5   oi  Iv   chwegwyv    [a]   thrugaint 

adegmil  ac  ymharth  y  bryttaniait  idigwydaw5  bledri  i  tywyffawc ends: 

Ac  chwedi  gorfowys  y  vail  honno  arver  oi  hendcnawt  Anvon  keaiadeu  hyt  yu 
germania  i  vynegi  bot  ynys  brydain  yn  aufawd  yroed  hawd  i  dareftwng  hep  dim  oi 
chiwdawt  yndi  || 


BRUT    Y   BRENHINEDD.  379 

89-92,  95-9('>.  Modern  insertions  ■with  the  name,  and  a  few  entries  in  the  hand  of 
Wm.  Morris  of  Llansilin,  1660. 

93-4.  A  folio  belonging  to  MS.  52  helow. 

Page  93  contains  a  brief  chronicle  of  events  beginning :  Glyndwr — Pan  gorouet 
han-i  vrenin  y  pedwerydd  oet  jr  ^effw  M°ccco  exccpto  duo  anno  &c., — the  second 
half  of  the  page  is  very  indistinct. 

94       o  daw  teruyfc  ymjfc  myrd  affenn  a  gannon  o  gerd 
dyn  llwyd  gadach  bach  yvr  bard  Odaw 

nid  mwy  no  dvrn  kogwrn  kerd  dd  ap  Gwilim 

b.       harddlech   a   diubech  bob    dor    yu    kynuv  nankonvy  yn 

varvor  M  a  cccc  ym  ior  y  ffy  ac  viii  rracgor 
0.       Y  oydd  ojd  ieffv  i  hirbarch  pen  lys  ha  ayl  henna,  &c. 
d.      Klywchnachwyn  amkwy[n]van.  Maeyno  lidamvnlan,  &c. 


MS.  45  =  Hen.  536  =  29.  Gboffrey's  'Historia  bbittonum,' 
the  Pedigrees  of  the  Saints,  and  of  the  Mes  of  the  North,  and 
Triads.  Vellum  ;  5^1  X  4  inches  ;  pages  6-3U],  having  25  lines  to  the 
page  and  sectional  initials  in  red  ;  late  xiiith  century*  ;  half  bound. 

Pages  1-5  are  missing,  and  one  or  more  leaves  are  wanting  at  the 
end.  The  text  of  the  first  half  agree  with  that  in  the  Bed  Book  of 
Hei-gest. 

6  II  t  ryaO  obob  ford  y  ymchoelut  ar  y  hen  teilygda&t  ae  rydit  .  Ac 
Grth  hynuy  3'd  archOu  dy  drugared  -di  hyt  pan  genhetych  di  udunt  hOy 
preffOylaO  yny  coydyd  y  foalYaut  iidutit  gan  rydit   Neu  ellGg  h6y  y  wladoed 

y  t'y'  y  geiffaO  preffOyluot  heb  geithiwet  arnadunt ends :  Ac 

yna  gOedy  kynnullaO  o  iuor  uab  Catwalad'  .  Ac  ini  [_sic]  j  keuynderO  a 
aiiyffant  o  longeu  hOy  adoethant  ynys  .  p  .  Ac  Gyth  Jilyned  a  thrugeint 
ybuant  yn  ryuelu  alaeflbn  ac  uy  iiaGr  dygrynoes  udunt  gan  uarwaGl 
tymheftyl  newyn  adaroed  idi  Had  adiftryO  fyberG  genedyl  ybryttaneit 
hyt  na  eitynt  gGrlhlad  gormef  y  laeflon  yOrthunt  ac  o  hynny  allan  nj' 
ehvit  h&y  yn  bryttaneit  Namyn  yn  kymry  .  Ac  y  gGnaeth  yfaeflbn  yn 
gait  Cadw  duundab  yrydunt  ehun  AdiwyllaO  ytired  .  Ac  adeilat  y  kestyft 
ar  dinalToed  .  ac  y  ueliy  y  byralTon  arglGydiaeth  ybryttaneit  y  arnunt  . 
Ac  hOy  yn  iiedu  holt  loygyry  dan  Edelltaa  yn  tywylTaOc  arnadunt  y  gOr 
liyntaf  a  wilgOys  Ooroii  y  teyrnaf  or  faeflbn  .  Ac  0  hynny  aftan  y  coitel' 
priaOt  genedyl  yr  ynys  eu  henO  ac  eu  dylyet  .  Ac  iiyf  caOslivnt  o  hynny 
aiian  .  Namyn  diodef  yn  ■\vaftat  keithiwet  faeflbn  arnadunt  .  Y 
tywyffogyon  auu  ar  kymry  gOedy  hynny  pob  eilwers  a  orchymynneis  i  y 
caradaOc  o  Ian  garban  uyg  kyt  oeffOr  Ac  idaO  y  hedeweis  defnyd  y 
yfcriuenu  y  Hyuyr  ohynny  attan  .  Brenhined  y  faeflbn  yrei  adoethant  ol 
yn  ol  a  orchymynneis  y  wilymo  vvabielbyr  A  henri  hontondefon  .  Athewi 
arei  kymry  Canyt  ydiO  gantunt  yliyuyr  kymraec  ayrachoeles  Gvvalter 
archdiagon  ryt  ychen  o  kymraec  yuBadin  .  yr  hOn  a  traethGys  yn  wir  0 
weithredoed  kymry  .  Ac  a  ymchcelcis  inheu  oft  o  kymraec  yn  itadin  . 
Ac  eihveith  y  dymchoelet  y  Hyuyr  hGn  o  lad  in  yg  kymraec  .  Ao  y  uefty 
yteruynha  y  gweithredoed  hyn  yma.     Explicit  hiftoria  hrittonum. 

286  Bonhed  feint  hjmri/  yffyd  yma :  Dewi  siab  fant  .  mab 
kedic  .  51      kcredic  .  m  .  cuneda  wledic  .  A  non  uerch    kynyr  o  caer 

gaGch  y  mam ends  :  Peblic  fant  yny  caer  yn  aruon  .  i\r  .  Maxeii 

wledic  amherawdyrruueiu  .  Ac  helen  uerch  eudaf  y  uam.  Of.  MS.I6  pt.  ir. 

291   Bonhed  gwyr  y  gogled  y6  hyn:  Vryen   uab  kynuarch  .  m  . 

MeirchaGu  .  m    .  goruft  letlGm  .  M  .  keneu  .  m   .   coel ends  : 

Huallu  .  M  .  tutuGlch  cornou  tywyffaGc  o  kernyG  .  Adywanw  Jierch 
amalGt  wledic  y  uam. 

*  Compare  the  handwriting  of  MSS,  35  and  37  above.  t  Cf.  Units,  p.  44, 1.  7. 

F  2 


880  PENIAKTH   MANUSCRIPTS   45-47. 

292  ILyma  j  ragoveu  a  geiff  y  neb  awelho  corfi  crift  pan  ganLor 
offerer)  .  &c. 

b.  Trioed  arhennic  yd  hyn  yma  :  Teir  pw-fon  .  y  tat  .  &c.  Then  follow 
Pedwar  defnyd  dyn,  Pump  fynbyr  corff,  Seith  grad  yregl6ys  .  afeith 
weddi  ypader  .  &c. 

293  Trioed  Arthur  aewyr:  Teir  Heithicl6yth  ynys  prydein  .  Arthur 
yn  pen  teyrned  ym  mynyO  .  A  dewi  yn  pen  elgyb  .  A  Maelg6n  gOyned 
yn  pen  hyneif ends  on  p.  301,  -which  is  scarcely  legible. 


MS.  46  =  Hen.  27.  Geoffrey's  Historia  Brittondm  in  Welsh. 
Vellum  ;  6|  X  4f  inches  ;  360  pages,  of  which  those  numbered  6.5-80, 
1&3-G,  241-4,  253-6,  259-60,  269-70,  353-60  are  modern  insertions 
on  paper;  there  are  21  lines  to  the  page,  and  sectional  initials  in  blue 
floriated  with  red  ;  second  quarter  of  the  xivfh  century;  strongly  bound 
in  white  vellum. 

Bryttaen  oreu  or  ynyffoed  yr  honn  ael6it  gynt  yOenn  ynys  yg 
golleOinaCl   eigaOn   yrOg   freinc  ac  i6erdon  ymae  goflodedic  Oyth  cant 

milltyr  yny  hyt  .  A  deucant  yu  y  llet  &c.  (see  Bruts,  p.  40) the 

text  on  vellum  ends  :  Ac  6yth  mlyned  adeugeint  6edy  goruot  ogatGall'  . 
y  bu  yn  gOiedychu  .  ac  gOedy  yr  yfpeit  h&nn6  y  kleuycliOys  catOall' 
o  heneint  ag6ander  .  ac  y  bu  uar6  .  yrapynithecuettyd  ouis  tachOed  .  ae 
corff  a  irOytfic  ireideu  g6erthua6r .  ac  y  dodaffant  ymyOn  del6  oeuyd  arylun 
ehun  o  anryued  geluydit  .  acby0reinr6yd  .  ac  y  goflbdet  ar  dcl6  march 
o  euyd  uch  benn  y  porth  — ^7ie  remainder  of  the  text  is  from  MS.  1^-5, 
with  which  the  text  of  this  MS.  practically  agrees. 


MS.  47.  A.  composite  Vellum  MS.  made  up  of  fragments. 

Part  i  =  Hen.  27",  being  a  fragment  of  Dares  Phrygins  iu  Welsh,  iu 
the  same  hand  as  MS.  46,  and  consisting  of  13  folios,  some  of  which 
are  much  injured.  Possibly  this  is  the  earliest  version  in  Welsh,  and 
its  test  does  not  agree  verbally  with  any  other  known  MS. 

Part  ii  =  Hen.  540*^  Vellum  ;  6^  x  4|  inches  ;  28  pages,  all 
o-all  stained  and  difficult  to  read  ;   ?  xvth  century  ;  sewn. 

I  Vaylt  yd  oed  gortheyr  gortheneu  brenin  ybrytannicit  yn  eifte  ar  lau 
y  Uynn  .  guehennedic  Uyma  dwy  drcic  yn  kynodi  or  Uynn  vn  wenn  ag 
vn  iroch  ft  gwedy  neflau  o  bob  un  ar  y  gilid  ymlad  creulon  ....  ends: 
kerbit  y  Ueuat  agynhyrua  zodiac  law  awna  feithiercn  leirioel  .  Noc 
ymchwel  dim  "gwedy  hynny  onewyd  .  Agwedy  y  cayer  y  drws  yd 
ymgyyd  yfer  g[wy]nuidedic  yn  dywyllwc  .  yn  dyrnawt  y  paladyr 
y  hennyd  ymoroyd  aflor  yrey  hen  a  adnewydheir  .  y  gwynnoed  a  ym- 
ladant  o  greulon  chwythat  a  fein  implith  y  fyr  arnunt 

Yma  y  teruyna  profwydolaeth  verdin  emreis. 

II  Profvnjdolaeth  yr  eryr  yw  hwnn  :  Megis  y  gwrthlad  y  wenydreic 
coch  velly  yv  diwyll  y  wenn  &c. — ^'ol  easy  to  decipher. 

15  Yn  y  vlwydyn    y    mae  pedwar  diwyrnawt  ar  vgeyn  o  dydyeu 

gwenwyny'c  nyt  am'geu  no  deudyd  y ac  vn  awr  hagen  yfyt 

weuwynic  ymob  vn a  ffwy  bynnac  a  ellyngo  gwaet  &c. 

17  [D]i!:udec    brenin    athrugein    yflyt    dan   ^euan    efleirat  y   dalu 

tretheu    bob     blvvydyn y    daryftyngant   kyny    bwynt   grilt- 

yanogyon  hoU  .  •  yaod  dannet  ai'oes  feuan  niynet  y  ved  yr  arglwyd 
grift  &c e7ids :  Ny  daw  Jeiiaa  yr  Uys  iiamyn  kyfnot  yr  dyd  y 


THE   LIFE    OF   ANNA   ETC.  3S1 

ganot  neu  yuleu  pan  -wifdco  goron  y  vreninyaeth  aphan  del  yr  llys 
liono  nyt  rait  idaw  na  bwyt  na  diawt  ol  hyiiny  adyuawt  ^euan  wrth 
emauuel  amerawdyi*  coi'ftinobyl  ac  velly  y  teruyna. 

23  Sicut albus  expellet  &c. —  'The  outside  portion  of  this 

ns  well  as  the  following  pages  are  so  thichlg  gall-stained  as  to  be 
practically  illegible. 

27  Mis  ionawr  na  ladd  waefc  yf  Iri  llymait  o  win  i\r  dy  gythhvng  yi" 
gic  goiffyr  ameddyglyn  a  Botes  o  lyliied  *  Mis  tiiweffvor  arver 
obwlment  &c.  ^'^^  lost. 

Part  iii  =  Hen.  S-W.and  411  (pp.  17-32).  Vellum  ;  6i  x  4|  inolics; 
32  pages;  xvth  century  ;  sewn. 

1  \_Cas  ddgnion,~\  Dy'n  agretto  y  ba6b  heb  allu  o  neb  ymdiret  yda6  . 
Dyn  a  ymyrro  nr  bob  peth  heb  .  .  |  o  aclios  .  Dyn  tra  uo  ar  hedOcli 

agaro  ryuel  .  Dyn  ti  ufiio-arall  ac  yn  ynteuchunyneuaOc ends: 

Dyn  a  dybycko  f;oruot  trOy  valclider   ath  thraha  .  Ac  uelhj  y  teruyna 
yr  ymdidan  byr  h6mi. 

TLymma  y  adnabot  dyn  ar  y  Cynebpryt  ac  lliw  ar  vrin  a  mod  y 
gorff  .  IFo  o  gedymeitbas  y  neb  a  uo  Gyneb  lly*  .  .  ydaw*  .  .  .  y  neb 
y  bo  llygeit  keuon  liocliyon  ydaO  diryeit  allidia6c  nyd  //  y  neb  y  bo  llygeit 
afl'en  yda6  sef  yO  hynny  llygeit  gleiflon  maOr  nngball  achalet  o  anyau 
vyd  //  y  neb  agaeo  ylygeit  yn  vynycli  dan  dara6  y  amrannou  y  gyt  yu 
vuan  fals  alh6yllodrua   uyd  //  y  neb  a  uo  gwj'iiyon  y  lygeit  yn  gocliyon 

liryf  a  deOr  vyd  // ends  :  y  neb  a  dywetto   yn   vuan  ao  yn 

vein  fol  a  drOc  y   ymdygyat  achwerO  uyd   ac  uelly  y  teruyna  deall 
natur  dyn. 

5  The  life  of  Anna :  Yn  yr  anifor  gyat  yr  oed  g&r  yngharufalum 
a  elwit  Joacliim  o  lOyth  juda  ar  g6r  h6nn6  oed  vugeil  oe  deueit 
ehunan  ac  ofn  du6  ord  aruaO  ac  nyt  oed  arna6  dim  pryder  aiall  oitlir 
kadO  y  deueit  //  G6r  kyuoethaOc  enrydedus  oed  a  rodi  a  -vvnai  y  degOm 
ae  oifr6m  yn  frOytlilaOn  y  du6  ac  ny  wnai  gam  y  neb  //  ae  holl  da 
bydaOl  ax  |  rannei  ef  bob  bl6ydyn  yn  ilri  tlirayan  y  ran  gyntaf  a  rodei  y 
ueibon  ymdiueit  a  gwraged  gwedwon  apbeivrinyon  ac  ynghenogyon  // 
ar  eil  ran  a  roddei  y  offeiryeit  ac  yfcolheidgj'on//  Ar  dryded  a  -adei  yda6 
elmn  ac  y  dylOyth  y  dy//  ac  ual  hynny  y  gOriai  ef  bob  blGydyn  a  duG  oed 
yn  rodi  digoned  o  da  ydaG  hyt  nat  oiid  yn  yr  ilrael  neb  kyfelyb  ydaG 
//  Ac  nyt  oed  arnaG  oedrun  pan  dcehreuaGd  gGneiithur  hynny  naniyn 
pymthengmlGyd  //  Aphan   oed  ugeinmlGyd   ef  y   kyraerLh  Anna  vercli 

ylacar  yn  wreic  ydaG  yr  I'.onn  a  hanoed  o  IGyth  daiivd  &c ends  : 

y  Ueuuer  or  nef  a  breUUylya  ynot  (i Enpycl)  gwell  ueir  llaGn 

Oyt  o       yr  arglGyd  y  gyt  atlii  bendigcit  Gyt  ymlitli  y  gwraged  || 

17  Triads.  \\  Tri  cur  hualaGc  y  .p  .  Hun  .  m  .  MaolgGn  achatwaladyr 
vendigeit  a  riallaGn  wallt  banadlRn.  Tri  gwyudeyrn  y.  p.  Ottein  m  . 
vryen  ....  ends:  (70)  Teir  prif  vuGeh  y.  p.  brech  buGsh  vaelgGu 
gGyned  athonllGyt  buGch  moibon  oliiFer  gofgorduaGr  Achornilla  buGch 
laGuroded  varuaGc. 

26  Teir  vnbcngerd  yffyd  prydu  a  chanu  telyn  a  chyuarGydyt  .... 
ends  :  Tri  pheth  nys  inedr  namyn  doeth  ne  dedwyd  ymadaG  ac  ouered 
yn  amfer  apheidaG  achywira  yn  amler  a  pheidaG  a  gormod  mcddaGt. 

27  DewilVeu  dyn  ynt  y  varch  yn  vaGv  &c. 

31  Rac  gwaetlyn;  (b)  llymi  foyn  rac  y  deirthon  &c.  being  magical 
form'jIiE  in  Latin, 


*  Too  faint  to  read. 


382  PENIARTH   MANUSCJUPTS   48-49. 

MS.  48  =  Hen.  450.  Poems  by  David  ap  Gwilim,  and  two 
fragments.  Vellum  ;  5|  X  4  inches  ;  20  pages  + 18  blank  leaves  in  paper  ; 
bound. 

This  MS.  has  been  supposed  to  he  in  the  autograph  of  the  bard,  but  it  is  doubt- 
ful if  the  oldest  part  can  be  earlier  than  1450.  Pages  1*,  2,  and  19*  seem  to  belong 
to  the  time  of  Henry  vii. 

1  A  fragment  on  the  manner  commotes,  cantreds,  and  coHnfies  in 
Wales  shoidd  be  governed :  l|  Yrhwn  a  ge£Eiry  ffuryf  ynechrav  brynedev 
y  fanlileriaeth  .  A  bit  rraglowyaet  yn  y  kymydav  a  wnel  i  gwaffaneth 
ac  ai  dilyno  yn  graff  ac  yn  gywir  ac  y  gyredic  ac  a  roUo  i  negeffav 
herwydd  y  gorchymynno  yr  vftus  ar  vikwnt  vddunt :  vikwnt  [=sherifE] 
o  gaer  vyrddin  gyd  ar  eantrefoedd  ar  kymydav  val  y  bvont  gynt  &c.  &c. 

3  Hawddamawr  ddevlawr  ddilyth     ....  a 
Am  boywddyn  yma  heddiw                                                J)d, 

4  Toft  oyd  ddwyn  trais  gynhwynawl     ....  b 
")  nef  gwiw  oyd  ef  i  ddayth                                  Dd.  ab  G. 

7       rioyd  kas  ir  hyd  y  keiliwyf     ....  c 

Plwm  a  Hals  pla  am  i  ffefi  Dd. 

10  Morvyd  weddaid  anghywir     ....  d 
O  chai  mod  o  cliymyddy                                                        „ 

11  Doy  yroyddwn  dioyr  eddyl     ....  e 
Uewpart  a  dart  yni  din                                                            „ 

13  Doy  yrapericl  y  kiglef    ....  f 
Am  aur  o  ddyn  a  uoarw  ddwyf                                          „ 

14  Da  i  llviiiwyd  dvU  iownwed     ,     .     .     ,  g 
Amen  nid  addvnwn  mwy                               Dd  ap  gwilym 

17       Kredaf  i  naf  y  nevoyd     ....  A 

Ar  bren  kroys  i  bryny  kred  (1-34)|| 

19  A  list  of  Kings  from  William  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  vii. 
The  duration  of  each  reign  is  given  except  that  of  Henry  vir, 
■which,  if  it  was  ever  written,  has  been  obliterated. 

20       Pan  el  y  neidr  pa  wnawn  i 

J  gwr  llv  o  gaer  lleawn     .... 
vydd  hyn  oer  ddychryn  ddechveff 


MS.  49  =  Hen.  302.  Poetry  by  David  ap  Gwilim.  Paper; 
5^i  X  3|  inches;  folios  3-173;  bound  in  old  pai'chment ;  beginning 
wanting.  The  MS.  i.s  seemingly  written  in  three  distinct  hands  ;  folios 
3-46a  (poems  l-43a)  are  in  hand  A,  which  is  earlier  than  1577  ;  folios 
466-84i  (poems  436-78)  are  in  hand  BJ  ;  folios  85-157  (poems  79- 
138)  are  in  hand  C.  Both  B  and  C  were  probably  written  b^ 
Dr.  John  Davies  of  Mallwyd  at  two  different  periods  of  his  life. 

*  These  pages  were  once  numbered  49  and  78  respectively. 

t  This  poem  has  "  Dafydd  ap  Gtoilim"  in  white  paint  written  against  the  top 
lines.  Whether  or  not  the  poem  is  complete  it  is  impossible  to  say,  the  writing  is 
later  than  the  rest  of  the  Mri.  and  the  authorship  Tory  doubtful. 

X  Compare  hand  Bwith  that  of  Banks'  MS.  26.  The  spellings  iaithydd,  aiddil, 
etc.,  are  unlike  those  of  Dr.  Davies  and  tend  to  show  that  he  did  not  write  the 
B  part ;  but  "  Caii  yn  y  llyfr  arall"  (see  No.  67  of  this  MS.)  shows  that  the  copyist 
had  another  transcript  in  his  rossession,  and  we  know  that  Dr.  Davics's  MSS.  are 
designated  by  A.  B.  C.  D.  E. 


THE   FOETltY   OF   D.    AP   QWILIM.  383 

The  MS.  b3ai's  on  the  front  cover  the  numbers  "  xviii.  "  aniJ  "  2  "  ;  on  the 
inside  is  written  "Ellis  Price  "  in  two  places,  !\nd  "  su?n  liter  Elizii  Price  Anno  Doi 
1577."  Also  the  name  of  "  Ed  :  Wynne."  On  folio  102  we  find  the  names  of 
"  Richard  Davies  deGwevnliv  "  ai'il  of"  Kobert  and  Margaret  Hughes  dc  Caermellur," 
both  in  the  Commote  of  Llaurwst  [172U].     Other  names  also  occur  in  the  margins. 

1  [Goi-lUvjn  ydd  wyf  dilyn  geirllacs]  a 
II  pevnydd  i  gwelir  yno     .... 

yn  oes  bvn  dyvot  nos  byth. 

2  yr  wybrwynt  hclynt  bylaw     ....  l> 
nit  id  ynglyn  gwr  deongl  wyt  (,1.  22)|l 

3  [Doe  ddifieu  dydd  i  yfed]  c 
II  tir  a  gvdd  i  ddeurvdd  ddygn     .... 

mynet  at  vyuyn  meinael 

4  y  keiliog  serchog  i  son     ....  d 
adrodd  a  ganodd  o  gevdd 

5  gwae  vi  o  gariat  gwiw  vCia     ....  c 
loywswydd  tvIw  leisie  oedd  ■woU 

6  Evrucbes  y  kae  mangoet     ....  f 
ar  vchai  yr  evruches 

7  Anvon  a  wnaeth  rieinverch     ....  ff 
kar  i  mi  karii  i  nine 

8  Y  donn  bcnngrycblonn  groe'uleis     ....  h 
nam  lludd  at  vortudd  veurverch 

9  Tyf  y  dyn  tyviat  enit     ....  i 
mynweir  viiant  3'm  vnweitb 

10  klo  a  roet  av  ddrw-s  y  ty     .     .     .  k 
yma  yddvvyf  a  mae  ddwyt 

1 1  hoet  kas  er  hyd  y  keisiwyf    ....  I 
plwm  a  iials  pla  am  i  ffenn 

12  kariat  ai'  ddyn  anwadal     ....  m 
barn  iawu  rhof  a  gwawn  i  gwedd 

13  gweywyr  kyveddachwyr  kof     ...  n 
y  diank  rhac  y  daet 

14  Plygu  rhag  Hit  yr  ydwyf     ....  0 
banngamv  lieb  \n  gymar 

15  hydr  y  gwddost  eil  indec     ....  n 
ac  annerch  dy  livn  gennyt 

16  beddiw  i  gwelaf  ddavydd     ....  g 
i  theket  ac  na  tliykia 

17  Y  verch  a  gar  ruddell  vein     ....  r 
na  thlawd  hwde  bvnt  ith  law 

18  ny  chwsg  bvn  gidai  hvnbenn     ....  a 
air  mwy  vyih  er  y  mwyn 

19  Ai  llai  vy  rhann  o  annvn     ....  t 
J  mwdwl  gweir  ai  madws 

20  karv  y  bvm  kyt  kfiriwyf     ....  u 
Sbommet  vl  am  ossymmeith 

21  dy  gariat  indec  oroeu     ....  v 
kymmer  dy  livn  y  vvn  vi 

22  Oi  o  galonn  vergronn  vacli     ....  to 
heulwenn  a  seren  y  scrch 


384  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   49. 

23       Vchcneit  weclu  afledneis     ....  „■ 

eitlir  morvudd  nym  djluidd  dyn 

21       Eiddvn  ddewissaf  serchawc     ....  j 

ar  -/  d)u  a  oryw  dwyll 

"5       Y  verch  borffor  i  tLoryn     .... 

tegacli  yw  honno  ho  nel)  '^ 

26  Vcliel  yr  wyf  yn  oclii     ....  j 
diav  y  nyn  o  daw  nos 

27  Y  veinvercli  hwde  vauvodd     ....  g. 
ath  ogyvoet  ath  gavas 

23       Tydy  ehediat  tewdwrf     ....  f 

arall  a  bwyall  biev  ■^ 

29  Dysgais  ddwyn  kariat  esgut     .... 
I:ywir  iiy  mynegir  mwy 

30  karv  /  r  /  wyf  gweith  hynwyf  gwyllt  k 
ar  groc  vyw  vynnv  gwreic  vytli 

31  kerddeis  yn  gyut  hollynt  liii-     ....  j 
diJlyn  ym  nyth  dwyllo  neb 

32  da  vorvudd  sinoblriidd  syw     ....  Jj^ 
ero  vi  ai  aro  vis 

33  llyma  bwynt  llemae  y  bydd    ....  / 
henlleidr  vnfturf  a  hvnlle 

34  kayev  sylldaerynnev  serch     ....  „, 
le  yr  wyl  liw  yr  alarch 

35  Gwyl  bedr  bvm  yn  edrych     ....  n 
yn  anrbec  byt  teg  byt  hagr 

36  Y  Tun  glaer  vvvnwgl  evreit     ....  a- 
a  geri  vu  mi  vymot 

37  Morvudd  weddeidd  anghywir     ....  j} 
o  chai  niodd  o  chymmyddy 

38  Gwell  eniwet  fFerffet  ffvc     ....  «• 
y  \\w  a  rocs  morvudd  llwyt 

39  Adanvr  o  rew  dwyraiu     ....  »■ 
havl  y  dawn  boylet  ynof 

40  Mev  gariat  niywn  magwriaeth     ....  s 
mev  vwgwtli  am  i  vagv  / 

41  kerddeis  o  vewn  kytleissiev     ....  f 
liuddiodd  vi  /n/  lie  ddoedd  y  vvn 

42  Y  verch  a  alwn  veiuchwaer     ....  m 
Rbad  a  geidw  rhydeg  ydcedd      [11.  25-46  are  in  haodB.] 

43  Digiaw  ddwyf  am  liw  ewyn     ....  v 
ym  Lebrwng  at  em  hoywbryt  SfC. 

Hyd  hyn  allan  o  Lvfs  Mix.  Wm.  Matbew  o  Landaf  [in  hand  B.] 

♦Bendith  ar  enw'r  creawdner     ....  to 

J  gysgod  wybr  i  gysgu 


*  This  continuatioE  of  poem  43  and  those  numbered  44-70  are  in  hand  B. 


THE  POETJRY   OF   D.   AP   GWILTM.  385 

Allan  or  llvfk  awrN  o  iieroest y  copiwyd  a  ganlyn  hyd  [rhij  JO']. 
44:       Mav  aflwyddiant  coddiant  cawdd     ....  a 

Morfydd  lliw  goleuddydd  llwyd 

45  O  fritliill  fyfr  iaitliydd     ....  fr 
Dwg  in  chwijdl  da  gennyd 

46  Gwae  fi  bil  Aiddil     Addaf     ....  e 
Os  gyrr  mor  rhywyr  mae'r  haf 

47  Dyddgu  liw  dydd  goleuaf    ....  d 
Diystyr  wallawyr  llif 

48  Vn  agwedd  oferedd  fu     .     .     .     .  e 
Dwywes  a  marw  o'r  diwedd 

49  Y  fereh  anllad  .a'm  gvvadawdd     .     .     .     .-  / 
Do  do  gwyr  duw  ado  dim 

50  Annercli  nac  aunerch  gennad     ....  g 
Ar  dy  gred  aa  ddywed  ddim 

51  Ceisiaw  yn  lew  heb  dewi     ....  It 
Er  ai  ceidw  eurog  Loywdal 

52  Hoywdeg  riain  a'm  hudai     ....  i 
Hebddi  ni  byddafi  byw 

53  Digiais  am  na  cbawii  degau     ....  k 
Nid  gorllwyn  gwraig  y  garllwyd 

54  Digrif  fu  fyngvvaith  naithiwyr     ....  / 
Ledratta  baf  aruaf  fi 

55  Cywyddau  twf  cywiwddoeth     ....  vt 
Ni  ddyly  hi  i  mi  mwy 

56  Gildiais  fal  gildiwr  ar  fin     .     .     .     .  n 
Hawdd  yf  a  wyl  ei  hoywddyn 

57  Efa  fonheddig  ddigawn     ....  o 
Nad  tros  gof  Ein  wtres  gyrit 

58  (Dyn  cannuid  doniog  gyneddf  p 
Dyddgn  ar  gwallt  Uiwddu  lleddf*) 

Dy  wabawdd  caw(d)dnawd  cu(d)dnwyf     .... 
fy  nyn  lygad  gloyn  gloyw 

59  Ni  tbybiais  ddewrdrais,  ddirdra     ....  q 
Yno  y  gwys  difwyno  ei  gwedd 

60  Deinkryd  mawr  o  led  ankiaiii     ....  r 
A  haul  a  ddattodai  hyti 

61  O  chan  fi  drueni  drum     ....  g 
Ddyddgu  i'w  charu  o  chair 

62  Curiodd  anw^dal  galon     ....  t 
Na  sercli  byth  ouis  eircli  bun 

63  Traserch  ar.  wenferch  winfaeth     .....  u 
Barf  a  cliyrn  byrfwch  arnat' 

64  ICiyfr  dwned  dyfed  dyfyn  /  ar  windaif       ....  v 
llwydd  a  dawn  idda^7  duw'n  ei  noddi 

65  Dyfed  a  siomed  syinud  /  eu  mavvrair     ....  w 
Diwyd  grair  dan  dywod  gro 

*  "  Ex'  per  vetuste  "  and  inserted  later. 

f  The  second  and  third  Englyn  are  represented  by  a  blank  space  in  the  MS- 


386  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   49. 

66  Da  y  rhed  ar  waered  arw  oror  /  olwyn     .     .     ,     .  a 
hwy  hyawdl  ofwy  fo  hoedl  ^for 

67  Credaf  i  ZMaf  o  nefoedd  h 

cats  yn  y  Uyfr  arall     CI. 

68  Fal  yr  oeddwn  fawl  i-v/yddaf     ....  c 
Amen"  a  wylltiodd  fy  mun 

69  Teg  forfudd  tegau  fawrfalch     ....  d 
Cymod  liw  manod  a  mi 

70  Rhyhir  wyt  ar  y  gyfluu     ....  c 
Calon  serchog  syber  fydd 

Hyd  hyn  allan  or  Uyfr  Gwyn  o  Hergest 


Jieliach  allan  o  hin  Lyfr  arall 

71  Gwyl  Bedr  y  bum  yn  edrycb    ....  f 
Yn  anrheg  bid  teg  bid  hagr 

72  Yr  het  o  fedw  da  y'lli  gedwir     ....  a 
Gwaith  wyd  Morfydd  llwyd  a'i  Haw 

73  A  fu  ddim  ddamwain  breiddfyw     ....  h 
BolUod  brafF  rnab  alltud  brych 

74  Y  kelynllwyn  coil  iawnllwyth     ....  » 
Gyssylltedig  ger  brig  bron 

75  Digwsc  fum  am  ail  degau     ....  k 
Gyd  a  <hi  a  gad  i'tli  oes 

76  Doe  r  oeddwn  dioer  eddyl     ....  I 
lle'R'part  a  dart  yn  ei  din 

77  Cerdda  was  cor  ddewiswydd     ....  m 
Nid  vfydd  neb  ond  ^for 

78  Vfydd  serchogion  ofpg     ....  n 
Wyneb  y  rliwydddeb  ai  rhoes 

Qua  sequuntur  descripta  sunt  ex  vetusto  codice 
memln-anaceo  scripto  circa  1526 

79  Gwae  fardd  a  fai  gyTa  ei  orn     ....  o 
'y  meudith  yn  y  luownuir 

80  ^for  avr  o  fawrwriaetli     ....  p 
hir  dy  gledd  heuir  dy  glod 

81  Mar:  Gr:  ap  Adda  ap  dd:     A"  17  Edv>:  3. 

Bliagawr  mawr  gep  mvrgwyngalch     ....  q 

Dwred  avr  deryw  y  dyn 

82  Ef  aeth  heddiw  yn  ddiwael     ....  r 
y  dv  leidr  y  del  adref 

83  fal  yr  oeddwn  gyntKToswaith     ....  « 
Am  ei  hwyl  yr  wyl  yr  wydd 

84  Tair  gwragedd  a'i  gwedd  fal  gwawn     ....  t, 
Ir  dyn  a  fo  hyn  n^  hi 

85  ^euan  ^or  gwa«wdan  gwiwdad     ....  « 
^  mi  fy  myw  am  fy  myd 

86  A  gerddodd  neb  er  gordderch     ....  v 
Ac  y  troes  y  corfE  trvan 


THE    POETRY   OF    D.    AP   GWILIM.  387 

87  Dwynwen  dcigr  dauian  degwch     ....  a 
Yr  Eqi  wyry  roi  ymwared 

88  Dyddgu  ddiwavadwyddgamp     ,     ,     .     .  6 
y  n$>n  pryd  iia'th  f'yno  neb 

89  Dyddgwaith  dibech  oedd  echdoe     ....  c 
Aha  gwraig  y  bwa  bach 

90  Y  ferch  dan  yr  avr  llathrloyw     ....  d 
Trwyddew  serch  trwyddaw  y  sydd 

91  HawdJ  ammawr  mvreinwawr  maith     ....  e 
Penrhyn  gloyw  feddyglyn  glas 

92  drud  yr  adwaenwti  dy  dro     ....  / 
ysgwd  pan  fo  gwag  i  .sgil 

93  devne  r  eiry  dyn  orevryw     ....  g 
Air  chwerw  am  wr  a  chorvn 

94  Kho  Duw  y  .  X  Rhaid  yw  gwiliaw     ....  h 

llvn  ascwrn  gwddw  gwydd 

95  Rhidyll  hvdolaidd  rhydwn     ....  * 
Gyda  dvw  y  gadwyd  ei 

36        Da  ar  feirdd  a  dewr  wr  fv     .     .     .     .  k 

Dehevbarth  nid  a  hebof  Bladog  benjras 

97  Ehai  o  ferched  y  gwledydd     ....  I 
Nag  iarlles  mewn  gwisc  evrlliw  .  / 

98  lleidr  o  fewn  diras  draserch     ....  m 
hir  hvn  faelgwyn  i  haros 

99  Dysgais  ryw  baradwysgaingo     ....  n 
Ac  yn  cael  canv'r  gaingc  hon 

100  ^  serch  a  roes  merch  i  mi     .     .     .     .  o 
ai  mawl  gwyn  ei  fyd  ai  medd 

101  A  fv  ddim  ddamwain  breiddfy  w  &c.     See  No.  73.  p 

102  Dadlittia  'r  diwyd  lattai     ...  q 
Ar  lliain  dv  i'r  llwyn  dail 

103  Ilawddafnor  glwysgor  glasgoed     ....  r 
Devddrwg  am  i  wladeiddrwydd 

104  Yr  radlwysferch  wawrdlosfain     ....  * 
wyth  liw  dydd  o'th  loyw  dyddyn 

105  Dodes  Dvw  da  o  dyst  wyf    ....  t 
^r  llwyn  ar  ben  morfydd  llwyd 

J  06       Kynnar  fodd  cain  arfeddyd     ....  u 

nith  yr  havl  viiwaith  ar  hon 

107  Heirdd  feirdd  fevrddyn  diledriw     ....  t; 
wrth  adail  a  wrthodais 

108  Deg  nithiad  doe  y  gwnaethvm     ....  to 
Gwae  fi  ni  welwn  i  neb 

109  He  digrif  y  bvm  heddiw     ....  x 
Bedwlwyn  or  coed  mwyn  ai  maeth 

110  Pwyntiew  afrwydd  drwy  'r  flwyddyn     ....  y 
Yn  dywyll  i  ni  'n  devoedd 

111  Myfi  y  sydd  devnydd  dig     ....  z 
y  byddaf  o  gwybyddir 


388  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  49. 

112  Ysgyfarilog  yngliartref     ....  a 
Anolo  fv  'r  anwylyd 

113  fal  yr  oeddwti  ymaficfs     ....  h 
peidio  a  dywedj'd  pwy  ydyvv 

114  kyrch  yr  edn' diaflednais     ....  c 
Erys  mis  eres  fy  myw 

115  Hawdd  amawr  ddevlawr  ddilyth     ....  d 
Am  hoywddyn  yma  heddiw 

116  Salm  yw  nghof  o  lyfr  ofydd     ....  e 
A  dalaf  bwyth  fFrwyth  y  ffridd 

117  Doe  ym  herigl  y  ciglef    ....  f 
Atn  avr  o  ddyn  marw  yddwyi' 

118  Da  y  llvniwyd  dull  iawnwedd     ....  o 
Amen  ac  nid  rliaid  i  n  mwy 

119  Gydag'  icir  y  dei  dy  garv     ....  h 
J  fynydd  ni  wybydd  neb 

120  Prid  o  swydd  prydais  iddi     ....  i 
Amen  ac  ni  cbana  i  mwy 

121  Da  fv'r  drindod  heb  dlodi     ....  k 
yn  dwyn  oil  bob  dyn  i  nef 

122  OesbrafE  wyd  ^esu  ysbryd  gwiw  Ddofydd     ....  / 
goddefaist  fawr   benyd   (followed  by  more  than  2  Want  pages) 

123  Gwae  fi  na  wyr  y  forwyn     ....  m 
Ochan  bader  end  cywydd 

124  Ni  cLysgaf  nid  af  o  dy     .     .     .     .  n 
Plwm  yw  ar  glog  pie  mae  r  glaw 

12.3       Rho   Duw  bael  rlij'dav  helyiit     ....  o 

y  dydd  brentisieid  i'w  dwyn 

120         Hvdol  doe  fii  hoedl  Dafycjd     ....  p 

A  tlieyrn  oedd  aeth  i'r  nef  jfolo  Gock 

127  Tripbortbor   dygyfor  dig     ....  q 
coed  briglaes  a  maes  i  mi 

128  Yr  wylau  deg  ar  lanw  dioer     ....  r 
fy  iiihenydd  fydd  y  fercb 

129  A  mi  'n  glaf  er  mwyii  gloywferch     ....  s 
nac  \vy  diocr^  nac  aderyn 

130  Tydi  y  bwtb  tinrhyitb  Twn     ....  t 
^        Dafydd  a  cbroes  da  foes  fv 

131  Gwawr  ddyliuddiant  y  cantref-   ....  u 
Mi  ai  maddeva  i'm  avr 

132  Y  fercb  or  fynachkig  faen     ....  v 
Ni  chawn  fod  yn  ordderch  yt 

133  Doe  r  oeddwn  dan  orevddail     ....  ^  w 
Gowni  ar  gwrr  y  genav 

134  Y  fercb  a  wnaetli  gwayw  dan  f'ais     ....  x 
Ni  ddyly  bi  i  mi  mwy 

135  Borevddydd  bv  raawr  eiddvu     ....  y 
Bob  lliw  fel  ar  bebyll  avr 


Y   KVYTTA   KYVAKWYDD.  389 

136  Cwrs  digoll  cerais  degav     ....  a 
Mvrniai  fardd  mae  arnaf  ol     [1.  .18].* 

137  Kerbyd  Hod  ynfjd  llyndanfui  y  sydd  ...  h 
Rhcd  gwedd  it  yfed  gwaddod  tefyrn* 

Dafydd  gav  merydil  gi  mall  &c.  Hhys  Meigcn 

138  fel  yr  oeddwn  yii  myned     ....  c 
vn  atteb  a  \vn  etto  (1.20)|| 

Tolios  15S-160  are  wanting. 

Folios  161-165  contain  an  Index  to  firet  lines  alphabetically  arranged  in  hand  C. 

Folios  1736-16C6  have  a  list  of  "  Beirdd  a  Phrydyddion  "   written  upside  down 
the  page  in  hand  B. 


MS.  50  =  Hen.  31.  "  Y  Cwtta  Cvpakwydd"  contains  a  large 
variety  of  compositions  (especially  prophetical)  in  prose  and  verse,  in 
Latin,  English,  and  Welsh.  Vellum  and  paper  mixed  ;  oi  x  4|  inches  ; 
330  pages,  which  ar,e  to  a  great  extent  deeply  stained  with  gall ;  repaired 
and  bound  in  oak  boards  and  leather.  This  MS.  has  been  attributed  to 
Guilim  Tew,  but  the  writing  is  very  different  from  his  autograph  in 
MS.  51  =  134^  MS.-  60  is  dated  1425  (p.  G2)  ;  1415  (p.  82)  ;  1451 
(p.  221)  ;  1456  (p.  311),  and  as  the  style  of  the  writing  corresponds 
■with  these  dates  it  is  pretty  certain  that  it  was  not  written  by  G.  Tew, 
but  by  one  "  Dauyd"  (p.  114),  possibly  a  monk  at  Neath  Abbey. 

Pages  13-14,  31-32,  53-56,  63-66,  71-72,  121-24,  141-44,164,191-92,217-20, 
239-40,  253-56,  259-62,  265-67,  271-74,  277-79,  285-90,  293-98,  305-10,  315-20, 
and  323-26  are  blank. 

"  Haw  Richard  Thomas  0  lyu  Nedd "  is  found  at  the  foot  of  pp.  92-3.  Other 
names  also  occur,  viz.,  "Jeuan  Thorn  [as]  porthman"  (p.  205)  ;  and"  Rankin  tomas 
a  biav  y  llyfr  hwnn  "  (p.  164).  These  three  names  look  like  autographs  of  the  first 
half  of  the  xvith  century.     Pages  193-216  are  by  a  different  hand. 

1       Nota  Appare  qxiod  es  ;  nel  eslo  quod  appares. 

When  the  cocke  in  the  north  hath  byld  hym  a  neste  .    .    .      d 
This  may  bo  callyd  a  farly  t  a  grete  word 

3  Ho  hath  is  der  &  buried  in  syght     ....  e 
And  in  the  vale  of  jfosaphath  men  shall  hym  bor 

r  Briddlyngton 
*,      ,      .    J  Banistroy  r=WiUiam  Bannister] 
Prophecia*^  Merlyn  ^ 

l^Tb.  of  assheldon 

4  When  rome  is  remeuyd  into  englond     ....  f 
■    •    ■>    katvvaladyr  shall  call  on  kynon  the  nobyll 

And  worth  vp   Walys  and  worship  her  londes  „     . 

Of  lyme  &  stone  thyn  howse  thow  bygge 
^f  pou  wolt  or  walwyn  or  ryg 

7  ffor  the  falling  euil  .  Take  the  blood  of  hys  lityl  fynger  that 
is  seke  &c. 

8  Megys  yd  oed  merdin  ddiwarnaOt  y  seuyll  geyr  bronn  Arthur  y 
gouynnaOJ  Arthur  idaO  pOy  a  wledychei  yn  ynys  prydein  wedy  efo  . 

*  Many  lines  in  numbers  94  and  137  are  imperfect,  the  original  being  clearly 
defective.  The  end  of  94  as  well  as  136  is  also  wanting  ;  a  blank  space  being  left  in 
both  cases. 


390  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   50. 

Ac  yntheu  a  ddy waOt  panyO  cwhech  brenhin  or  brytannyeit  ....  p6y 
gwedy  hynny sacson  ....  yna  y  rennir  lloeger  yn  deiranti|| 

15  Mab  Rodri  yssydd  vy6  Uawer  a  glyO  y  dros  weilgi  &c.       a 

b.  Or  gaer  ydda  maer  y  maes  &c.  b 

c.  Brenhin  pell  y  ergit  y  dywedir  am  dana6  &c.  c 

d.  Y  seren  a  gyuyt  ar  vreudd6yt  yn  wir  &c.     y  bardd  bach  d 

e.  Blaen  gway6  ryuel  yny  anel  yssyd  &c.  e 

16  Owein  yn  ditrem  a  dda6  advef  yr  eilweith  &c.  / 
h.  Ef  a  dda6  yr  hydd  kyrn  ymwasc  r6ng  deu  base  &c.  g 

c.  Gwylwyr  pyrth  lleon  a  welan  pen  hOylyon  &e.  k 

d.  Byr  a  vydd  cochyon  ddillat  &c.  i 

e.  Kynn6rf  ar  vrys  adaO  yr  ynys  &c.  k 

17  Mi  a  ddaroganaf  y  da6  briodoraOr     ....  L 
Mabon     bronn     breisgedd    |    mebyt    yn    y    ddeOredd 

a   wledych  wladedd. 
Owein  Gyr  owein  kein  kynyddet     .... 
ac  owein  a  vydd  pa6b  ay  g6ybydd  ac  ay  gwelant  M.  wyllt 

18  Pan  ddel  lloegr6ys  ay  k6n  kyfrOys     ....  in 
A  baedd  glyndyf6rd0y  yn  rannu  r  teyrnas 

19  Gwedy  lladder  wedy  cladder  ynghalet  vedd     ....        n 
Fob  peth  o  hynn  teir  oes  ae  gwyl. 

b.  Brodyr  niy6n  brOydr  mal  yn  brydyon     ....  o 
Ooh  or  gofudi  kans  ef  a  ddyg6ydd  ar  gleddyf  y  vraOt  ehun 

c.  All  the  townys  of  kent  shall  cast  vp  her  keys  p 
ffor  drede  of  a  dede  man  when  they  hyryth  hym  &c. 

d.  Pwy  wedy  herri  vreuhini  vrenhin  q 
Bieuj'dd  y  cla6r  wedy  teirga6r  trin  &c. 

20  Ein  rin  rywcriu  djTO  ddiot  y  gudyn     ....  r 
ny  bo  ar  neithaOr  honn  gwedy  ni 

TLyma  pQyIlat  pembrOn. 

b.  HenG  a  rac  enG  .  berf  ac  at  verf  &c. 

c.  Kerbyt  yG  charret  .  Bigot  yG  pilori  .  Karedd  yG  pechaGt  &c. 

21  Pan  vo  gwyr  yn  walloc   a  gwragedd  kribyoc     .     .     .     .      s 
trist  kerddaGr  yn  kerddet  gwlat  .  annGyl  bugeil  a  geilwat. 

b.  Ef  a  ddaG  byt  .  y  bj'dd  gwynuyt     ....  t 
Pont  ar  venei  kyn  kalan  mei  ymlaen  gwynuyt 

Ar  ddimei  yn  gronn  .  a  phelydr  onn  .  heb  annGylyt    ,    ,    . 

ywein  hawlGr  a  dialGr  arG  y  bryt  . 

ywein  gwedy  bien  gymry  .  kymro  liyuryt  . 

dir  yG  y  gwan  pob  darogan  ameu  dybyt  . 

c.  Eureit  yG  UaG  dduG  a  llydan  .  &c.  u 

22  Pyn  vo  vgein  mlynedd  a  whechant  a  chwe  mil  v 
o  deruyn  o  ddechreu  adaf  hit  yr  haf  hir  velyn  &c. 

b.       Atvydd  orn  a  gwatwar  Grth  ych  darpar  am  yeh  oweia  &c.  w 
c.  DiruaGr  annerch  drGy  ddiwydus  garyat  vy  maGrussaf  fydduraGt 
gan  ddiolch  y  dduG  glybot  o  honof  ych  bot  yn  iach  ac  yn  llawen  ac  or 
mynnGch  chwilheu  Gybot  yGrth  vy  sengl  vywyt  innen  iach  oeddGn  ar 
•wneuthuryat  y  llythr  hGan  a  llawen  o  blegyt  . 


Y   KVVTTA   KYVARWYDD.  391 

23  Clewittor  y  gwyr  .  Cle  .  y  gwragedd     ....  a 
Cletcittor  mab  cldu6  ay  dat  yii  y  roddi. 

b.       Clywitor  gwynt  .  klywitor  gla6     ....  6 

ny  Oystla  y  6ystl0yt  yda6. 

24  Gyluiii  geueil  gaucl  lleO  a  wasc  ny  ^vcsltit  arnaO  ...      c 
a  ffraythoc  o  fr6ytheu  a  chnau  ar  deydd./ 

25  N'y  ddangossed  y  neb  yn  vn  pylgeint  d 
y  ddangosset  y  vyrddia  kyn  no  hencint 

Seith  auallen  ber  a  seith  vgeint     .... 
olwedd  y  henO  oleuwedd  y  deint./ 

Auallen  beren  bunvenn  o  vlodeu     ....  e 

Namyn  seith  eilvveith  oc  en  hen  atneu 

Auallen  beren  y  dyf  dra  drum     ....  f 

Gwyn  ,y  byt  gymry  or  arofun  . 

Auallen  [beren]  burwen  y  brie     ....  ff 

nyt  6y£  didaOn  a  dieidic  . 

Auallen  [beren]  y  dyf  yglan  nant     ....  h 

A  minneu  gan  willyon  nym  atwaynant. 

Auallen  beren  brenn  yssyd  vat     ....  i 

Ac  ynlheu  heddi6  nal  nabOyat 

Auallen  beren  brenn  adueindiis     ....  k 

yt  vyddant  wyr  ramant  ridrouanns 

Auallen  beren  brenn  diletkyn     ....  I 

Namyn  seith  letwac  wedy  lletkyn./ 

Auallen  beren  biboric     ....  m 

Y  talaOr  gerddaOr  y  gelennic./ 

.Auallen  beren  brenn  ny  gryno     ....  n 

ny  wna  anuoes  pan  pfeudo 

Auallen  beren  brenn  a  honneit     ....  o 

hyt  na  bOyf  gyfrin  ac  eflifleit 

Auallen  beren  boraf  y  haeron     ....  p 

kenitor  corn  el6ch  kathyl  hedd6ch  a  hinon 

Auallen   beren  y  dyf  yn  llanerch     ....  q 

kany  bCyf  beddiO  gan  eilyO  eleirch 

Auallen  beren  bloden  elTyllyd     ....  r 

kyn  djuot  ar  yy  IWj  lleith  mab  gwenddydd 

Auallen  beren  y  dyf  yglan  anon     ....  « 

b6yf  gwas  gwynuydic  gan  wledic  ortliordon 

Auallen  beren  blodau  yfplyt     ....  * 

Saelon  ar  dy  wreid  beirdd  ar  gynnydd 

Auallen  beren  ar  bren  lion u 

a  gwneuthur  gwar  o  wyllt  o  vallt  tirion 

Auallen  ber^n  burwen  o  vlodeij    ....  v 

kcnadeu  o  bell  wellwell  chwedleu 

Auallen  beren  lien  ar  brenn  briclas     ....  w 

o  freink  odit  a  ddieink  yn  ddiles 

Oian  a  parchellan  oedd  reit  gweiddi     ....  x 

Ac  na  bo  gwaret  byth  y  normandi 

Oian  a  parchellan  na  vydd  hunaOt     ....  y 

gwell  bedd  no  buchedd  ychena6c  || 

33  II  lynn.    Atuyt  ymOrthrin  gan  vydina6r  a 

A  goreskyn  prydein  o  wirion  owein 
ar  naill  o  lundein  ae  ddiada6r     .... 
neb  o  liaylonaeth  ni  ddidola6r./  31ebdtn 


a. 

b. 

26 

c. 
d. 

e. 

/• 

27 

9- 
h. 

i. 

k. 

I. 

28 

m. 

n. 

29 

0. 

P- 

(I- 

30 

r. 

s. 

a. 

b. 

-392  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    50. 

b.  Oian  Barchellan  bydan  a  vyd     ....  a 
lEsgyb  anghyfEeitli  diffeith  diffydd  .  15* 

c.  Oian   Barchellan  bychan  brychiii     ....  £ 
ac  ymladd  yn  daer  am  gaer  dywi  .  ic* 

d.  Oian  Barchellan  brychan  brychuras     ....  <• 
34"             dirmygit  or  oe  wir  alanas  .  17* 

a.  Oian  Barchellan  neut  glas  mynydd     ....  d 
kymry  a  oruydd  kein  vydd  eu  dydd  .  18* 

b.  Oian   Barchellan  neut  blodeu  ar  ddrein  gorlas  ....  e 
dileaOr  saeson  o  diryon  brydei'n  .  /  19* 

c.  Oian  parchellan  neut  glas  kelli.iOr    ....  f 
Terwyn  gle6  gwall  hir  ef  gouynnaOr  .  20* 

35  Oian  Barchellan  a  barchell  rynni  [sic']     ....  q 
dyddaO  ar  ddyuet  dyuy&gi  ,  21* 

b.  OiaTi  havchellnn  andaO  di  yr  eilon     ....  h 
Maban  ddry^hauat  mat  y  vrython  .  22* 

c.  Oian  harchellan  dysga6a  die     ....  i 
Katwaladyr  I6ybyr  huan  a  chynan  wledic  .  /  23* 

d.  Oian  Harchellan  neum  due  ann6yt     ....  k 
Gwyr  deiuyr  a  brynaich  bir  y  hoet  ./  24* 

36  _   Oian   Rar  hurchellan  mawr  eryssi     ....  I 

y  holi  brython  brithuyt  a  ui  .  25* 
b.       Oian  Darchellan  a  bar  .  aduant     ....  »j 

or  pan  ddarfo  rif  mwy  nys  ryueddant  ./  26*        Merddin 

36       Peiryan  vaban  peit  ti  ath  letkyut     ....  n 

poet  ef  a  vo  yn  diwedd  gyda  ^essu     Amen 

38   Gicasgargerdd  vyrddin :  Gwr  a  leueif  ny  bedd  ...  0 

GwassaOc  dywet  y  wendydd 
am  dyfot  gwyllyon  mynydd 
yn  aber  crafnant  creuyddf 
a  gwedy  kyru  cloer  a  ^-ydd 
A  mi  ddisgoganaf  ereiil 
kyrn  a  lief  kOn  penneu  flur     .... 
llan  todoch  cloch  myneehi     .... 
hynt  yny  ddel  gynt  iaraches  Myrdin 

42       KoronaOc  vabon  coronaOc  vabon 

diargel  ryuel  vOydd  gol'gorddyon     ....  p 

y  go^*  y^  aerdoft  poft  prydein  Anon 

44       Deiithum  attat  y  adra6ddj     ....  q 

GwascaraGc  awel  awyr 

pGyll  drut  a  thwyll  hyt  grcdir  || 

67       y  manereu  goreu  .  ar  gwi6  eiryeu     ....  r 

yn  OrtliOyneb  pla  a  thra  faefoii./ 

b.       Gogyuercheis  gogyfarchaf  gogyuercbydd  * 

vryen  reget  diwalla6get  dylewenydd     .... 
Nyt  elGyf  yn  hen  ymdygn  agheu  agben 
na  byddGyf  ym  dir  wen  .  na  mol6yf  vrien  . 


*  Thus  numbered  in  the  MS.,  and  it  is  evident  that  STos.  4-13  are  wanting 
altogether,  as  well  as  the  end  of  No.  13  and  the  beginning  of  No.  14. 

t  See  Skene's  Four  Ancient  Books  of  Wales,  vol.  ii.  p.  237. 

t  Ibid.  pp.  218-232.  Th^re  are  verbal  differences  throughout,  and  evidently  the 
two  texts  are  independent  transcripts  of  some  older  text. 


Y  KWTTA  KYVAEWTDD.  393 

59       Oian  a  barchellan  a  barchellyn  a 

Na  chOsc  va  oric  dan  vric  kelyu     .... 

Ac  hyt  yn  llundein  lleuein  a  dycliryn./ 
■60  R6ng  yr  eneit  ar  korff:  A  diuan  ddyn  ddeuryO  anyan  b 

bydd  vynych  dy  gyssul  .  na  vydd  gyasan     .... 

Yn  y  diydydd  y  bydd  gwin  a  medd 

a  hedd  mOyuyan  Y  bergam 

•61  Kanyat  y  G. — Dechymic  p6y  yO  .  creat  kyno  dilyO  ....  c 

yn  ren  nym  ranner  .  gan  lu  UucufEer  Anon 

62       A  prophecy  in  Latin  for  the  year  1425 

.67       BydaOt  ryd  yflyd  gaeth  oy  gweithrededd     ...  d 

gytuot  gwedy  goruot  yn  arueu 
i.       Bugeil  gwarthec  kil  aeharrec  yn  yftymlyn     ....  e 

yny  darfo  ryuel  a  vo  am  benn  dulyn  .  Taliessin. 

e.       Ed  wart  yO  hOnn  gOnn  oet  g6rolaeth     ....  / 

dir  yO  enkil  hil  henii 
d.       Ordot  vronn  goruot  gallon  dreghi  g 

ywein  or  dOyrein  dir  gyfodi  .     .     . 

lleO  llyO  lla6  y  wana  .  darogan  pob  tra  treit  duO  ehunan 

69  Ordot  vronn  goruot  galet  a  vydd     ....  A 
ddiifryt  brython  .  rac  ar6yddon 

a  brat  faefon  feith  nym  puehet 

70  Orddot  vronn  goruot  gwynlliO  adar     ....  i 
lloegr6ys  ny  mynnei  mynychot  chwetleu     .... 

73  Waith  lluydd :  Eos  yn  agos  a  geffydd     ....  k 

gweith  nys  dorpo  .  as  nys  meddo  .  meddiant  ny  bydd./ 
i>.       Orddot  vronn  goruot  .  g6nn  a  bucha     ....  I 

ketwit  ef  kynheilya6dr  nef  .  na6dd  di  draha./ 

74  Orddot  vronn  goruot  g6nn  weith  pedyt     ....  tii 
kymry  kym6y  a  gyuya6net./ 

75  Orddot  vronn  goruot  gOnn  waith  treui     ....  n 
dyuet  a  reget  rfjy  a  g6yni./ 

b.       Orddot  vron  goruot  ger  gorch6yl  mat     ....  o 

daruot  amser  gnaOt  nifer  na6dd  ny  chaffant./ 

76  Orddot  vronn  goruot  hir  alanas     ....  p 
yr  gwledychu  ac  yr  meddu  medel  atkas./ 

77  Orddot  vronn  goruot  gorllyOc  banneu     ....  g 
dr6y  nerth  yn  tat  .  gOraOl  y  rat  .  roddyon  goreu./ 

b.       Orddot  vronn  goruot  kyrchan  ddiuieu     ....  r 

Rac  y   alon   kyt  ny  byddon  kas  veddylyeu./ 

78  OrJdot  vronn  goruot  galet  a  vyddam     ....  s 
Gwragedd  gwalltr6ch  &c.  vt  supra  in  principio 

b.       Orddot  vronn  goruot  goruynoc  teirO     ....  t 

keneis  yn  y  tu  .  tiryon  wleddeu./ 

79  Orddot  vronn  goruot  g6nn  waith  leiui     ....  u 
llywyaOdr  bango  kor  kynghori 

b.       Orddot  vron  goruot  heb  r6y  dygymot     ....  v 

a  roddo  vy  ren  ymrif  geimyat 

80  Orddot  vronn  goruot  g6nn  eruynneu     ....  le 
ddifEryt  brython  buont(?)  guron  bur  veddylyeu      Taliessin 

81  Policronica*  ....  Soripta  7°  Jan:  anno  christi  1445 

82  Orta  &  genelogia  beatissimi  Cadoci*  &c. 

*  So  stained  with  gall  as  to  be  dlflBcult  to  read. 
E     98430.  G 


394  PENIARTH  MANXrSCRIPT   50. 

83  Quondam  in  quihusiatn  finibw*  britawnie  regionis  que  demetia 
nuMcupaiwr  qMidam  regulw*  nomine  GrliOusiM«regiiabat  ....  GrOnllOc 
sortitM^  esse  /  Edelic  obtinuit  Edylygyon  /  Feul  penychen  /  Seru 
serunith  /  Gorae  Gorenyth  .  Mar  margan  /  kettil  kettweli  /  Corn- 
onawyl  Cariiwyllon  .  metil  crucmetil  &c. 

84  The  pedigrees  of  Edern,  Gwynn  annGyn,  'Bintus,  Arthur, 
Einyon,  TLewelyn  ap  gruff:  <fc  Elen  £3  Eudaf. 

86  The  pedigrees  of  the  Saiuts  Tedecho,  Padern,  Catuan,  Kybi, 
Testyn,  Padric,  Beuno,  Gannen, TyssilyaO  &  Kyndeyrn. 

87  RyO  ewylhis  a  syrthaOdd  ynof  y  adnabot  ystoryaeu  y  brytann- 

yeit Achos  hynny  keissaO  Uyfreu  darogana61  orugum  .  a 

chwedy  y  kaffel  mal  bytheuat  buanllym  llaOa  ymddeith  kr6ydra6  a 

wneuthum ends :  Ryw  dirgeledic  gedymddaith  ydolygaOdd 

ym  drossi  man  betheu  drogaua61  o  ]adin  franghec  a  saesnec  ynghym- 
raec  .  A  minneu  ay  kyuatheis  &c. 

90  Darogan  yr  ole6  bendigeit :  Naciens  kefnderw  peredyr  mab 
EfraOc  y  marchaCc  fyruaf  yn  y  amser  ef  .  a  phennaf  or  vort  gronn 
or  amser  gyntaf  y   gossoda6dd   Myrddin  ynghaer  llion  ar  6ysc   y 

Morgan6k ends  :  Ac  val  hynn  yn  veddylgar  hiraethla6n  y 

due  yr  eryr  ay  hell  berteineu  at  Henri  vrenbin  lloegST  a  orchymyn- 
naOdd  y  gadO  yn  dda  y  mysc  y  tryssor  ann6ylaf  yn  y  lie  y  kauas 
y  trydy  Edward  drOy  ddOyuatl  rybudd  y  decuet  ul6yddyn  oy  teyrned J./ 

96  Assen  goronaOc  y  trabluddya  y  deyrnasiay  gytnerthaOl  anifeilyeit 

a  ddinustyr ends:  ay  attal  yn  vOy  a  wneir   o   'weddieu 

nac  dr6y  nerth  dynyou. 

98  T  lili  a  vlodeua    ay  blodeu  a  vydd   tec  .  ac  amyl   vydd  y 

cheingeu ends :    yn  ol  hynny  y  kadarnaf  y  gleddyf  a 

ymarddel  y  lili  ar  holl  teyrnas./ 

99  Pynn  ddarfio  y  geila6c  y  north  wneuthMj-  y  nyth   .  a  chynnuU 

y  adar ends  :  Eisoes  ef  a  deruyna  me6n  kyfreith  ddu6  .  Ac 

yn  dyffryn  ^osaphath  pobl  ay  cladd 

Prophecia  :  Brydlyt6n,  Banystroy,  Myrddin,  Thomas  Arseldon. 

103  Pan  yttoedd   GOrtheyrn  gOrtheneu   yn  eistedd  ar  Ian  y  llynn 

echtywenedic  y  kyuodassant  d6y  ddi'eic  o   heni e7ids  : 

g^yynneu  a  ymdorrant  o  vrat  chwythedigaeth  ac  a  wnant  sein  rOg  y 
syr.      (See  Bruts,  pp.  144-155.) 

Ac  velly  y  te>'uyna  Dauyd. 

115*     Orddot  vronn  goruot  gwnn  a  gassa     ....  a 

onyt  ymd6yll  athro  a  rOy  draha./ 
b.       Orddot  vronn  goruot  g6nn  a  dderuydd     ....  6 

0  lygru  kyureitheu  .  a  diua  egl6yseu  .  kas  eu  dOydda./ 

116  Orddot  vronn  goruot  gwisgan  teir  kat     ....  c 
nac  yr  ariant  dim  ni  chafEant./ 

117  Orddot  vronn  goruot  gOnn  weith  teulu     ....  d 
Uafur  a  wnan  hOynt  nys  meddan  yny  meddyant./ 

118  Orddot  vronn  goruot  rudd  geloreu     ....  e 
heb  gar  heb  glyt  gan  ba6b  or  byt  .  kas  aOch  bydyeu./ 

119  Orddot  vronn  goruot  galet  a  vydd     ...  / 
kreaOdr  pob  eluydd  .  kredaduu  y  fydd  .  ath  rydd  gwaret./ 


*  "  Taliessin"  is  written  at  the  top  of  p.  115,  and  the  compositions  up  to  p.  123 
are  apparently  to  be  attributed  to  him. 


•Y   KVVTTA   KYVARWYDD.  395 

6.      Orddot  vronn  goi'uot  gelynyon  .  Rodni     ....  a 

debolGr  oy  Olat  .  mat  pan  ddeubi./ 
120       Orddot  Tronn  goruot  g6nn  a  eruyn  &c.  ||  b 

125  II   MynnOy  tramOy  tir  a  goUet     ....  c 
an  roddo  rydit  .  a  gwlodd  edmic  atwaith  Mabon./ 

6.      Orddot  vronn  goruot  gorwynu!i6c  mynneu     ....  d 

an  rydd  gwaredd  .  gwedd  molyanneu./ 

126  Orddot  vronn  goruot  galet  gyrchu     ....  « 
Noddot  an  roddo  .  heb  dOyll  lieb  dro  dvOy  ■\vledych[u]. 


127   Taliessin  a  gant  kanu  .  a   h6nn6  a  ddyCeit  y  bydd pi/mthec 

brenhin  korona6c  o  saesson Ar  pymth[^ec\uet 

Henri  chOechet llyma  y  hami : 

Daroganaf  hynu  kat  ymob  mehyn     ....  / 

er  a  vo  yn  y  bammeu  dieu  y  duant.    Taliessin  benn  beirdd 

131*  G6ybyddet  pobyl  vrutanyeit  pan    y6    seith    Cantref   yssyd  y 

MorgaunOc ends  :  ar  gweithret  a  ^naelb  Edgar  ar  hynn  yn. 

tryssordy  llan  dafF  y  mae  ynghadO. 

132*     Nyt  hiraetb  etgyllaeth  gOyn     ....  ff 

Gan  dduO  Or  yu  vy6  a  vedd  Hys  ap  dd:  up  Jen 

133*     Jf^yma      enweu      Itymijdeu      lioll      r/ymry      ar     kantreui  : 

Tegeingl    kantref    hymOt    Oonsilld  &c ends :    Y    ddena  . 

Cantref  koch  yn  y  ddena  hyt  gaerloyO 

■138  Kaldey  yO  yw^s /)?/»•  or  pyr  h6nn6  y  kauas  kaftell  maenaGr  pyr 
y  en6./ 

139  Gwilym  vab  Eobert  iarll  kaerloy6  ao  argl6ydd  gwlat  voigan  a 
boll  vorgaunGc  di&y  gamwsdd  a  getwis  llawer  o  tiroedd  Jaov  petit  or 
acna6s  y  bu  ryuel  r6ag  Juor  ar  iarll  &c. 

140  Yn  amser  yr  Henri  kyntaf  o  vrenhinedd  Uoegyr  yr  oedd  GrufFudd 
vab  Rys  vab  TeOdGr  yn  arg  .  ar  vn  kymGt  kaeo  .  .  .  y  pet\vory[dd] 
rann  o  gantref  MaGr  yr  bGnu  a  dlyei  vot  yn  eiddaG  arglGyddiaeth 
hollddyuet  &c.  .  .  .  ends:  Pynwelas  GrufFyth  ballu  ariiaddunt  meddyly|| 

145  Y  maddeuant  or  pynkeu  ar  ol  bynn  yssydd  yn  yscriuennedic  yn 
Eiiuein  y  eglGys  veir  a  elwir  Ara  celi.f 

Then  follows  an  enumeration  of  the  number  of  days'  indulgences  procured  Xty 
the  repetition  of  certain  prayers. 

147  Kynetueu  meddafjt ;  Kynneddueu  meddaGt — yn  gyntaf  y  dilea 
y  cof  .  y  gwasgara  y  synnbGyr  .  yd  ysgaelussa  y  meddGl  .  y  distrywa  y 
deall  .  y  kyft'iy  y  cbwant  .   .   .  y  pyla  .  r  .  olGc  .  &c. 

148  Teir  person  .  y  tatar  mab  ,  aryspryt  glan  .  Yr  vn  tri  arbennic  yr 
vn  duG  yssydd  yn  y  nef  &c.  &c. 

149  Triads  of  the  Island  uf  Britain :  Tri  santeidd  Linys  ynys 
prydein  .  llinys  ^osepb  o  armatbia  .  a  llinys  Cunedda  wledic  .  a  llinys 
brycban  brecbeinaGo  &c. 

b.  Tri  enG  yr  ynys  bonn  .  kyntaf  y  gclwit  kyn  y  cbaiFel  cJas  meityn 
A  gwedy  y  chyuanbeddu  y  gehvit  y  vel  ynys  .  A  gv^'edy  y  goreskyn  o 
vrutus  y  dcdet  arnei  ynys  brydein  .  &o.  This  series  of  Triads 


396  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  50. 

does  not  agree  with  either  of  the  three  series  published  in  the  Myfyrian  Arch,  of 
Wales,  though  the  text  belongs  to  the  first  series  in  that  publication.  The  end  is 
wanting. 

161  Pel  war  prif  enryuedd  arugeint  yssydd  yn  Ynys  prydeiti  nyt 
amgen  :  Prenn  yssydd  yghoet  yn  .  y  p  .  a  thebic  j6  y  gollen  .  dieithyr 
bot  g6ryt  yn  hy  t  y  ddeil .  Ac  yn  dd6y  geing  y  mae  yn  ranuu  &c.  .  .  .  ends  : 
Nant  yssydd  yn  y  .  p  .  pOy  bynnac  a  vynno  gwneuthur  silltaereu  heyrn 
o  ddieitliyr  arueu  deuet  ar  Iiaearn  —  left  unfinished. 

165  A  Vocabulary  of  some  of  old  Welsh  ivords  with  their  modern 
equivalents :  Henweu  kystedlydd  ynt :  kyhaual  .  kych-wior  .  kyfeissior  . 
kyfefell  &c. 

166  Cronice  per  qnantum  tempus  mudus  durabit  secundum  opiniones 
duarum  Memorandum  quod  secunduta  Eusebiu»i  Saracenn  in  Cronicis 
Buis  .  et  secundum  iratrem  Coluwibinn  in  collac/one  sua  .  &c 

169  De  prophecia  Joachim,  ifoachim  dixit  in  magno  libro  &c. 

b.  De  Cronicw  Diuersarww  raateriaxum  .  Jn  pnncipjo  creautt  deus 
celum  et  terram  &c. 

1 71  Memorandum  ^Mod  .  .  .  istaCronicascnptaerant  .  .  .  .  Ji  .  ccc. 
liil°.  Blwyddyn  eisseu  o  ddeu  cant  .  a  phum  mil  a  vu  or  amser  y 
gwnaethpOyt  Addaf  yny  ddeuth  Crist  ygnaOt  dyn  .  &c.,  followed  by 
questions  and  answers,  mostly  on  Biblical  subjects. 

176  De  Geometria  ....  quinqwe  pedes  faciunt  vnuM  passujw  &c. 

177  Bryidd6yt  pa6l :  Eeit  yO  yni  vroder  garu  digriu6ch  paradOys  ac 

ofnycau  poeneu   vSern  &c ends  :  OfnokeGch  garedigycn 

vrodyr  y  poeneu  hynny  .  a  g0ne6cli  dda  y  meint  a  alloch  yr  du6  ac 
anrydeddOcli  dduO  ar  seint  hyt  pan  to  et'  an  kynhalyo  ui  mewn  pob 
gweitbret  da  .  Ac  an  dycko  yr  dragwyddaOl  vuchedd  .  Amen  boet  wir. 

182  Vn  post  prif  wedy  y  kyntaf  or  Iloer  enidydd  o  byddy  heb  pechaOt 
marwa61  .  arch  yth  argl6ydd  ddu6  yr  liynn  a  vynnych  a  thi  ae  ke%. 

^c ends:  Dec  vrdweith  bonedd  budd bendigeit  .  y  .  x  . 

dydd  or  l\oer  enidydd  dechreu  ddodi  mab  ar  ddysc  .  ac  ny  meth  pa 
geluyddyt  bynnac  vo. 

183  Y  llyuyr  h6nn  a  ddysc  y  ddyn  py  ddel6  y  dyly  credu  y  ddu6  . 

a  charu    du6  .  &c degeir   dedyf  y6  :  Na  vit   yt  eu 

dduweu  ....  Na  chymer  enO  du6  yn  orwac  .  .  .  Del  itk  got' 
eyssegru  duG  sul  .  .  .  .  enrydedda  dy  vam  ath  tat  ...  .  Na  lad 
selcin  .  .  .  .  na  wna  odineb  ....  Na  wna  ledrat  ....  Na  ddOc  cam 
tystolyaetb  ....  Na  chwenycha  na  thir  na  thy  dy  gymodaOc  .  .  .  .  na 
chwenycha    wreic     dy    gymodaOc     .     nae    was     nae    vorOyn     .     nae 

anefeil seith  pecha6t  tnarwaOl yr  meddiginaethu 

eneit  dyn  or  seith  pecha6t  marwaOl  y  roddes  du6  seith  rinwedd  yr 

egl6ys ends :  G6edy  g6yppo  dyn  .  .  rinweddeu  yr  egl6ys 

ac  avuer  o  naddunt  dr6y  perfeithrCydcl  Dylyedus  y6  ida6  6ybot  seith 
weithret  y  drugaredd  .  ae  gwneuthur  || 

193       God  y  byd  for3euenysse  a 

at  p^  bygynnyng  of  this  masse  .... 
In  godis  name  wend  pi  way 
God  be  ponkit  in  al  hys  werkes  || 

221  The  prophesy  of  Sibille  and  3Ie)-lyn.  /  Sov  .  to  susteyu  the 
forseid  pcophecye  of  the  right  wise  and  right  nobyll  Sibyll  Merlyn 
and  other  1  to  accordyng  so  that  er  the  yer  of  our  lord  m.  cccc.  Ij. 

be  ended  &c ends:    There   shall  a  kyng  of  justyce 

be  borne  ....  called   Henry  .  .  .  and   he    shall    dignifye    Galle- 
haulte  ....  and  in  short  tyme  he  shall  doii  all  thys. 


Y   KWTTA   KYVAEWYDD.  397 

JLyma  ganyadeu  y  bardd  hack  .  ne.u  Rees  vardd 

227  Y  keiloc  eilyoc  yw  lluossydd     ....  a 
meddlyn  ay  oresgyn  dragywydd./                         JRees  vardd 

b.  Geireu  meir  kywir  a  chall  apliob  deall  yny  lie  ...  .  b 
yr  kenaOL  .  ef  a  vydd  liawl  ai-  y  Modeu. 

c.  Ef  a  dyiT  mur  jT  hyrr  ar  j'mdaeni     ....  c 
Ae  roi  yn  Haw  arall  kail  ny  cliyll  y  alln./ 

228  Ef  a  dring  yr  ing  wedy  mawr  anghof  ar  gof  yny  ddel 

yOch  benn     ....  d 

Ac  a  gilia  y  bwbach  gwynndeis  or  vnbeis  or  boll  bressen,/ 

b.  Ef  a  ddaw  pererin  per  y  arwyddon     ....  e 
br6ydr  ar  vaes  glas  bas  gan  saeson 

c.  Dwy  vran  yssydd  ynghedernit  lloyger  a  lidyant  y  proved- 

igaetheu     ....  "  / 

Ami  a  dynnaf  y  ddreic  wenn  oddyOcb  benn  yr  holl  ddreigeu. 

229  0#  nyt  oes  am  y  lluossoedd  UaG  na  throet     ....         g 
deu  dri  gyda  hwech  a  dd6c  liarddlech  rac  henri     Rys  vardd 

b.  Mi  a  welaf  vlaenret  llu  .  r  veddyges     ....  k 
Mi  a  welaf  wllth  ymbob  dyiFryn                                     R.  V. 

c.  Byt  a  welir  liir  hydref  ac  oedran  teniysgeii     ....        i 
a  cbreuyddeit  vydd  o  newydd  yniwedd  ryueleu./ 

230  Heul  galet  y  goleuni  yieni  |  y  geir  hyt  6yl  veir  y  medi        k 
a  Henri  ay  viyv  a  gyll  tir  normandi./ 

b.  Amser  yr  egroes  oes  yssywedic  yr  ydic  adar  ay  bwyta  &c.    I 

c.  Sefyll  a  wnar  pebyll  wedy  wehyllo.  m 
He  bo  henri  uyt  digri  .  ay  ddagreu  yn  wylo. 

ay  elyn  gyr  y  la6  allawer  Haw  yn  yspeilo./ 

d.  Pywys  a  ddengys  gweitli  yr  ynysoedd  &c.  n 

e.  Neut  breinyawl  hudawl  hadeu  ar  gychwyn     ....         o 
gwylwyr  y  maris  a  sandwys  heb  vn  dyn./ 

231  ArvTydd  tir  tywarchen  pressen  ymrodir  enwir  aflawen  .  .  .  p 
koch  -wen  ywr  Heuat  kat  ymlaen  dalen  R.  V. 

b.       Ef  a  vydd  havydd  dewis  tri  mis   [....].,..       q 
dev  ossod  manot  mynytb  a  vydd  diffeitha  „ 

232  Yr  assen  lOydwen  hen  y  gen  &c.  Rys  r 

b.  Teir  breiddwyd  y  brofir  y  bod  y\\  wir  &e.  « 

233  mi  a  ossodaf  gyuoeth  my6n  ymrysson.  R,   t 
b.       Gracia  tempora  terra  twrf  mein  mawr     ....  ic 

a  gyrch  y  dadleu  ymymp  He  y  dechreua./  Rys 

c.  Pump  nawmil  a  ddeUolaiit  yr  estronyon     ....  v 
had  a  geisan  rwng  y  kwyseu 

234  Gruffudd  dadouydd  dilyd  deilyat     ....  w 
gwedy  henri  Ilia  y  Uywyant  pob  daeoni./ 

b,  Dasgubo  wnar  kymro  y  vro  vreisk  y  bryd  ....  x 
ac  ay  symvt.  or  He  y  bo./ 

c.  Prif  amser  ys.sydd  y  ddyn  prif  ammot  y 
a  Hydan  y  goreskyn  wrth  ysgwydd  duw  y  kerdda./ 

235  Pwy  yw  diiw  ae  deila  penna  ywr  weddi     ....  z 
golevni  o  nef  yr  hydref  a  gerdda./ 


398  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPT   50. 

b.  Y  brythyllot  yngheneu  y  ryd  py  ryw  vyd  yssydd  ya  dyuot .  &c.  a 

c.  Bjymar  gwir  llymar  gwaret  .  &c.  b 

236  Gnawt    egin    a   gwin    yn    ol   gwynt,      Gr.     yogweut  vynych 
Trherthin  &c. 

237  Ky^yt  fair  rwng  pedeir  fynnon     ....  c 
ariieu  yn  rrydu  ddeu  tu  y  rrydyeu                     Rees  vardd 

b.      Ef  a  gyuyt  loy6  vryt  Ian     ....  d 

wyt  titheu  or  deheu  dir 

238  (kael  gwattwar  kynar  kael  kaynion  &c.)  e 

241  Fragments  :  Anglia  te  prodit  tua  gens  quajw  quilibet  odit  &c. 

'212       Eegnabunt  biitones  albane  gentis  amici     ....  f 

]sta  ferus  te  corde  tenis  (?)  celestia  queras  versus  de  .fortuna 

2'i5  Neiistria  pisces  enutriet  et  augmentacio  yasoritm  lupi  &c. 

246  JPronoshcacio  Armenie  :  Gnm  enorme  maio2  regis  armenie  &c. 

250   Vatlcinium  aurelianwiD.de  leone  britonuva  : 

Surget  leo  aurcns  et  assumet  alas  aqwile  Ac.  ,  g 

2ol       ^n  pe  seson  of  somer  surly  who  lykes  h 

pe  fare  of  p"  ferlyes  p*  schal  fal  in  hast    .     .     .      [1433] 
and  ryde  into  Ron  [sic]  w'  renkes  ynovv 

257  Ther  schall  arise  in  walys  a  Eaveune  which  schall  haue  a 
I  ode  bale  &c. 

263  Schall  come  trewiy  as  yow  say     ....  i 
that  all  this  worll  is  come  to  ry3t 

That  many  a  day  so  darke  hath  be 

264  Syr  qnod  Merlyn  ther  Schall  arise  a  grey  catt  &c. 

269       When  the  pellican  bygynnyth  to  fle     .     .     .     .  k 

Than  madok  ys  sonnys  shall  bygynne  ■werche 
And  glamorgan  they  shall  spyll     .... 
the  blake  koc  of  Landaff  he  shall  dryue  adoune     .     .     .      . 
a  retowner  is  sonne  out  of  bellyng  || 

275  A  knyght  fchall  foyde  out  of  englond   w*  fuyr  at  his  tayle 

The  Capiten  of  Weiite  schall  be  folowyd  in  to  weuUouke  and 

ther  by  a  brgoke  he  schall  be  slayno  &c 

276  Ef  a  gyuyt  Uuat  a  llu  o  veibon  &c. 

281  [Trioedd]  Dy  gyughor  ath  kyssul  y6  .  amouyn  a  doeth  .  tewi 
Orlh  ynvyt  .  ymwegelyd  rac  diryeit  &c. 

282  Seint  aOstin  a  ddyweit  am  gardot  niae  peth  ardderchaCc  y6  .  &e. 

283  Medda6t  hoU  gorS  dyna61  a  16g6r  &c. 

284  A  medicyn  for  man  or  woman  that  ys  wed  or  out  of  mynd. 

In  pHmis  dicent«r  .  v  .  misse  &c. 

291  ArwydJon  teir  hinon  yssydd  yn  dyhuno  y  gyd  &c. 

b.  Y  gwyndyd  bieur  bj-d  ar  bel  &c.  / 

c.  Bliu  ywr  Her  keneu  kenawl  &c.  ?« 

d.  Pyn  vo  kyflro  ar  vro  hardd  vreni  vawr  n 

ef  a  gryn  llawr  llann  llieni  &c. 

292  Pyn  ddel  dihauarchlu  o  varcleu  aber  hodni  &c,  o 
h.       Hwnt  y  maer  hynt  amheua  &c.  I|                                             p 

299       i|}n  llan  llyr  yn  y  I'e./  q 


Y   KWTTA   KYVARWYDD.  399    ; 

b.  B}'d  ryuedd  a  ddaw  a  rif  ae  ammeu  &c  a. 

Ci  Oian  barchellan  mawr  eryssi  &c.||  h 

d.  Uyma  vyt  rywedd  rvuein  ar  benn  bys  &c.  c 

e.  Naw  kwys  anwa,bardd  a  erddir  y  leni  &c.  N  d 
300  Vnyawn  a  Uawn  or  llywenydd  &c.  e 

b.  Mi  a  tystaf  yn  gyntaf  yr  baf  hir  velyn  &e.  / 

c.  Gobeithaw  rac  Haw  y  daw  Uewenytb  &c.  ff 
■d.       Mawr  eir  a  geir  yn  gywir  yn  y  He  y  eddewid  &c.  h 

303  Meistrolaetb  y  byd  bywyd  buchedd  baehan  debongHr  &c.  i 
h.  Nyt  naw  y  bwyHaw  peHhynt  amser  &c.  h 
c.  Tri  cbOmpas  y  wneir  yn  Hoegr  tri  ouer  tri  ofn  a  ddiskyn  &c.    I 

304  Y  maer  Ian  weddi  yn  gweddu  yn  y  He  y'maen  &c.  m 

b.  Prydein  a  ddiein  ae  damwein  a  ddaw  n 
ac  o  vywn  yr  naw  y  daw  y  deu  ywein. 

c.  Ky  ad  y  keidwad  ar  ae  kytwy  &c..  o 

311  Pan  vo  Revel  yn  halgarth  &c. 

b.  Pan  vo  cbwefric  gwynn  y  bydd  jfork  ar  dervyn  &c. 

c.  Brenhin  pell  y  ergit  a  ddewedir  am  danaO  &c.  M.c.c.c.c.l.v.j. 

312  A  remembrance  of  termys  of  diuerse  propbecyes  tbat  wallysbmen 
fyndytb  \n  ber  bokys  &c. 

321  Hec  sunt  nowiwa  regis  illiw*  sawciam  crucem  iwveniet  secundittm. 
■diuersas  prophecias  autenticas./  MeHinw*  vocat  turn  tauruw  triplicj's 
nature  &c. 

322  Sex  sunt  cause  propter  quas  Britones  amiserunt  covoti&.tn 
regni  .  NegligeMcia  pj'elatorum  .  .  .  cupidilas  iudicu)w  &c. 

327    II  y  troant   yu  nadredd  .  yna  .  y  bydd  kynddrOc  y    brilhyl  ar 

llyffan ends :     Ac    yna  o   gynghor  a  chedernit  y  gadO  ynyg 

ibrydein  y  gwisc  ynteu  y  goron  y  huu  am  ben  Beli  hir  .  yna  tref  beli 
ihir  y  gelwir  .  gorwynt  honno  a  wastatbaa  ynys  brydein. 

This  MS.  is  said  to  have  belonged  formerly'  to  Sir  Thomas  Morgan  of  lluperra 
in  Glamorganshire, 


MS.  51  =  Hen.  134.  Poetky,  Welsh  Grammar,  Vocabularies, 
Historical  Triads,  &c.  Paper;  6x4^  inches;  210  pages;  mostly 
in  the  autograph  of  Gruilim  Tew  (p.  113)  ;  bound  in  leather. 

A  portion  of  the  top'of  every  leaf  is  repaired,  and  from  one  to  9  lines  are  illegible 
on.every  page.  The  MS.  has  suffered  from  damp  and  dirt,  and  in  many  parts  the 
ink  is  faint ;  it  is  imperfect  at  the  beginning  and  end.    , 

"Per  me  Eoger  Kyffin  de  gatheryr"  (p.  171).  P.  194  has  two  words  in  a  hand 
which  suggests  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethog. 

33  A  treatise  on  the  signification  of  certain  physical  characteristics, 
ending  with  palmistry :  ||  G-wybydd  di  vod  Hesstr  y  plant  yughylch  . 
y  .  rrith  .  megys  kroehan  yn  berwi  lliw  gwynn  da  yw  lliw 
rryvelynn  .  arsvydd  eissiev  &o.  &c,  .  .  .  Gorav  trwyn  .  kymhedrol  .  o 
hyd  .  a  .  lied  .  a  fEroene  Mawr.  Wyneb .  llydan  .  a  chwydd  ynddaw 
arwydd  dyn  kenttachus  ssyrhaedgar  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  Oni  bydd  vc  llin 


400 


PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   61. 


Gruff udd  gryc 
Dauit  ap  gwilim 


Madoc  bennvras 


onyd  vn  yn  kyssjUtv  y  byssedd  Iiwya  jr  llaw  megys  dissyvyd  vydd  Q 
byddant  lawer  o  liniev  hirglevyd  ai  lawndravael  yn  ym  ddiffyn  i  vywyd 
Ac  velly  i  tervyna  llyvr  y  Haw. 

45  kaledvwlch  kleddyf  Arthur  .  Angev  glas  kleddyf  vl  kassar  . 
Gwrddoyn  kleddyf  Siarls  durendardd  kleddyf  Eolant  Hawt  klyr 
kleddyf  o  liver 

46       ##**#*##  lliw  dybiyd  (1.  3) 
llevad  vai  Uywia  dy  vardd 

49       kayev  ssilltrynnev  sserch    .... 
le  yr  wyl  liiv  yr  alarch 

53       Mevanwy  lywy  liod     .... 
Mair  a  ro  drwc  mawr  yr  drych 

56       Edwart  ap  edwart  gwart  gwyr     ....  d 

yno  doy  ynj  diwedd  folo  goch 

60       Weithon  ni  thi  gyvethir     ....  e 

Gaer  sselem  hyd  vethlem  vaeth  (1.  6)  || 

63  A  Welsh  Grammar  in  the  autograph  of  Gwilim  Tew  (c.  1460) 
"  written  in  a  hurry  with  a  bad  pen."  Though  the  introduction  agrees 
with  the  text  in  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  the  work  is  modelled  on 
some  Latin  Grammar  of  the  time,  especially  the  part  dealing  with  the 
"  tabliat "  of  the  verb  (pp.  87-113),  where  numerous  examples  are  given 
in  Latin  as  well  as  in  Welsh.  The  work  ends  with  the  words  :  "  isst 
mea  libra  .  Amen  .  ameu.     Gwilim  Tew  .  a  phin  .  drwc  .  ar  vrys." 

114  Pedigrees — mostly  imperfect.  The  names  of  Seissyllt  ap 
kynvyr,  gr.  ap  hoi,  owain  ap  gr.  ap  madoc,  Einion  ap  dd.  ap  Meuric^ 
Dd.  ap  einion  goch,  ^ankyn  ap  ^euan  ap  hoi  &c.,  &c.,  occur. 

119  ILyma  hen  gymraec :  a  selection  only  is  appended. 


Ethi 

=  ypspart- 

kymgell 

=  gwayw       anglas 

=  cleddyf 

vnev 

llanvre 

=  ymladd-     ysstre 

=  kyvannedd 

kadwr 

=  tarian 

vaes       kadvanan 

=  arvogiou 

gomynnei 

=  gorvod 

yssfe 

=  hendre       Godrudd 

=  arvoc 

Atgori 

=  digio 

Ragno 

=  kyngor       kochre 

— arvoc 

Gwyawr 

=  gwaed 

keni 

=  kynnil        sseri 

=  meirch 

dychwior 

=  Gwell 

beri 

=  gweywyr  mirein 

=  llonydd 

Trynni 

=  kwnipas- 

kennyn 

=  ymladdev  lovlen 

=  heneint 

sev 

(lindywyd 

=  kytvndeb  Eryrou 

=  ymladdvvyr 

Trylavv 

=  daear 

kvar 

=  kyvoc         prenial 

=  yssgrin 

Trylen 

=  kad 

kwrr 

=  pais            dyreith 

=  di£Erwyth. 

kyssgwydd- 

mangar 

=  kroen         nyved 

=  nerth 

iad 

=  Atal 

dissgar 

=  kas             perideiat 

=parassant 

Blotiad 

=  kymyssc 

lletynt 

=  arvaeth      Talch 

=yraladd 

Angar 

=  vffern 

Gwibl 

=  twyll          meiddyn 

=  mynydd 

ssonyllt 

=  yssgafnev 

Rirallu 

=  ArglwyddGwrwmdderrgwissgdda 

karedd 

=  Hid 

atre 

=  diffefth       allwys 

=  anaf 

dyffvrdd 

=  lladdva 

diednic 

=  panvar       brodedd 

=  dwbl 

llynwys 

=  Gormes 

kysstring 

=  kyvrinach  mor 

=amsser 

123  [S]aith  grawys  y  ssydd. 

124  llyma  y  beirdd  ssaesson:  thoraas  o  gaer  gaint  //  fon  o 
britlington  Seiut  Jonii  veudwy  seint  thomas  o  arckelton  Banss(ori 
vynach. 

b.  llyma  y  beirdd  o  leitheu  ereiil :  melyngul  ap  gwyddus  &c. 


PROVERBS,   POETRY,   AND  TRIADS.  401 

1 25  Kas  ddynion  :  Dyn  a  addevo  y  Gyvrinach  i  ffol  nev  i  elyn, 
Dyn  a  ymroddo  mewn  .  anvrddas  er  vrddas  .  y  .  arall  Dyn  hob  dda 
gautho  &c.  &c.  ends :  Dyn  a  gassao  y  les  er  avles  i  arall. 

127  [Arglwydd  o  lawn  swydd  un  sud  Mordeyru]     ....  a 
Ni  (chan  vynhafawd)  [wawd  weneith]eidd   (1-  13)     .     .     . 
Naf  raon  gloyw  ddeon  arglwydd  ddieidd    Dauit  ap  gwilim 

128  llywelyn  a  mynu  om  ynni  a  grym     ....  b 
hadlesstr  dail  eiessto  dulwyd                       Ednyved  ap  gr: 

133  vcheneid  rrann  gelynn  dirrann  galar  dwys     ....         c 
Gwanas  loywber  gan  vric  aber  gwen  vro  gybi 

Gr:  ap  mered:  ap  dd: 

134  prelyad  kyvarf  brynar  vaes     ....  d 
Telyn  ni  bu  ai  talai 

Deirtud  nid  mvd  yn  oed  mei     .... 

Dewis  gwraic  dwywes  gwragedd     Gr:  V'  ap  gr:  ap  edri'd 

'  139       laith  ar  vin  ni  thervywyt     ....  e 

Oedyawc  wyf  ydiw  i  gwerth  Rys  brydydd 

143  Philip  ap  madoc  ap  jeuan  ap  jerwerth  !ip  niadoc  ap  meilir  &c. 

144  [Mynd  yr   wyf  i  dir  mon  draw]     ...  / 
IJEdnyved  gwilym  lym  laif  (1-6)       .... 

Tref  o  von  y  tra  vwyf  vyw  Jol  lo  goch 

147       ILyna  le  diffeith  weitbion     ....  g 

y  brodyr  i  baradwys  „         „ 

151        O  dduw  tec  ai  ddaed  dyn     ....  h 

prydydd  i  borth  paradwys  „         ,, 

155  l^Dyhuddiant  Elffin]  ;  [Grognawd  gyrru]  *  *  *     pa  gerddor 

pan  alwer  kynan  |  y  ddyvyiiv  .  .  .  |  geir  bronn  kadwaladr 
pa  vn  a  ddyvv  |  ymlaen  marchawglu  |  pan  vv  drangk  druan 
ar    gynan    ap    bran  |  os    ywcb    brif   veirddion    o    rwyf 

kelvyddion  &c 

Mi  yw  taliessin  |  benn  beirdd  gorllewin  ]  A   ellwng  elffin 

oi  bual  auriu  T  /  kae  /  k. 

156  "  Kanv  drws  y  nevadd" 

Kulvardd  keissied  rrwy  ]  kadw  kamp  ni  allwy  i 

dyrogan  dywetwy  |  ir  ai  gwarandawy 

poed  diflteitb  vo  y  diredd  |  poed  byrr  vo  i  vvcbedd 

poed  Mr  ddialedd  |  ar  vaelgwn  gwynedd  T       kol  k 

158  A  treatise  on  Natural  philosophy .  ||  Y  ffvrvaven  y  ssydd 
ynghylcb  y  pedwar  defnydd  val  y  blissgyn  .  yngbylch  .  yr  wy  a  phob 
vn  o  naddvnt  yn  grwnn  megys  wy  //  Kyntaf  yw  y  ddaear  .  kans  tromaf 

yw  &c.  &c ends :  kynneddvav  anian   dyfrlled  yw  kyssgadur 

trymlyoc   pydrllyd  .  llesc  pwl   ]    ssynnwyr   wynebvras  .  gwynn   i   iisf 
bycban  ■)  cbwant  a  mawr  i  allv  ilerwydd  kydgnawd  Ac  velly 

tervyna  y  llyfr  hwnn 

169  Henwav  y  trithlws  ar  ddec  j  a  oedd  yny  gogledd  /  nid  amgen  j 
Hen  Arthur    kledde  Rydderch  &c. 

170  "Historical"  Triads*  :  Forth  .  aeth  .  gan  yrp  .  luyddiawc  hyd 
yn  llycbiyn  ar  ,  gwr  hwnnw  .  aeth  yn  oes  gadial  .  dy  byry  i  ercAi  .  dy  . 

gyvor   .   or   .   ynys  honn    .   &c.   &c ends  with   the   Tri 

^?crveichiad  ynys  prydein  .   .   .   .  ar  drydcdd  edwin  vrenin  Uoegr 

*  See  Mabinogion,  pp.  2y7-308. 


402  PENIASTH  MANUSCEIPT   51. 

186  Henwav  main  gwyrth  ynt  .  a  natiriav  :  Nattur  maen  .  beril 
yw  .  troi  yn  wan  val  pe  delid  lliain  Ryngtho  ar  haul  &c. 

b.  Tair  merched  a  vv  i  ftn  ap  ^erweth  o  wladus  du  &c. 

187  Old  vocahidary — illegible  in  part:  llary=rrein/llywwy=i'neni 
Uogawd  =  kangell  /  llawlyw  ==  braichavadr  /  .  .  .  Mod  =  lie  /  Maran  = 
maer  /  maryan  =  twyn  mor  /  rrvon  =  milwr  /  eliflv  =  gormes  /  kloyn 
=  kroes  kledde  /  aches  =  avon  /  hinioe  =  trotliwy  /  henlor  :=  gorddrws 
&c.  Ac. 

194^  letter:  Vynngeredicaf  gedj'indeithes  y  ddwyf  i  yni  anvon 
anerch  a  chariad  atoch  \.,a,  bid  hyssbys  genyd  vod  gennyf  gyvle  aniwed 
aruod  kat  mor  drugaroc  vvost  wrthyf  tra  vvm  yn  menegi  yt  vyngovid 
am  hyny  mi  a  vynnaf  anvon  yt  lythr  ae  ynddo  ydd  anvonaf  ddevbeth  yn 
yssgrivenedic  nid  amgen  parabl  a  lliw  &c.  &c.  A  large  proportion  of 

this  letter  is  hardiy  legible. 

209  Mara  owain  ap  gf:  oedd  Elen  verch  tbo:  ap  Hn  ap  yngliarat  &c. 

210  [na  ddot]  ||  dy  vreich  nath  arddwrn  ar  dy  vortt  &c. — being  a 
fragment  of  Cato's  advice  to  his  son :  it  is  written  upside  down — the  beginning  is 
wanting,  and  every  line  is  incomplete. 


MS.  52  =  Hen.  135.  Poesis  by  D.  Nanjior  and  Do.  ap  Gwilim. 
Vellum  ;  5^  X  4|  inches  ;  44  pages ;  possibly  in  the  autograph  of  Dd: 
Nanmor ;  bound  in  cloth. 

This  MS.  ia  numbered  266  on  page  3.  Page  19  is  blank.  The  names  ^euann  ap 
hoel  and  Jeuann  ap  einonn  occur  on  p.  5.  Parts  of  this  MS.  are  injured  by  damp 
and  pp.  40—44  are  in  part  torn,  and  partly  stained  by  exudation  from  an  old  leather 
cover  in  which  it  was  once  kept. 

1-7  These  pages  bear  traces  of  some  persons  "  trying  their  pens.," 

a.  Pan  ddarffo  i  honno  i  hynyd  a 
ar  garv  a  gwario  iviengtyd 

a  marwr  da  y  gayaf  i  gyd 

myn  Saunan  hi  a  fa  ennyd  ( p.  5) 

b.  Glan  yw  meingan  mewn  mangoyd  b 
a  manwydd  a  minne  fy  ylgafndroyd 

y  bore  i  bu  riroyd 

a  ffyrn  hawn  ir  awn  ir  oyd  (p.  7) 

8       A  dewis  wyd  wr  llwyd  ar  hollwyr  brytaen     .     ,     .     .  c 

A  rroi  doed  o  feiV  ny  r  hyd  i  dewifvd  Nanmor 

12       Jvor  ydoedd  ovroda,vr     ....  d 

i  dai  Jvor  hael  y  daw  dd:  ap  Gwilim 

15      y  mae  pob  mai  diveioed     ....  e 

Enw  gwiwddoel.h  yno  i  gweddai  „         „ 

20  Trufty   and   welbelouyd  cofyn   if  hertele  recome«de  me  vnto 
you  ....  ends  :  Wrytyu  at  bethkel[art] 

21       Rys  wyd  vlodevynn  rvos  liuf    ....  f 

Y  del  mif  a  hoydl  Moyfen  Nanmor 

23  Eys  Orav  n  hir  ifaeron  &c.   (4  lines  only).  g 

24  ILys  dywynn  'Jarlles  deav     ....  „         h 
kedwit  duw  keidwad  tywyn 


THE   PROPHECIKS   OF   EYS   VARDD.  403 

27       Ynghamlan  or  Bryttaniaid     ....  n 

yrrv  r  twod  or  tywynn  Nanmor 

30  Y  kenav  n  dwyu  kannwayw  dur     ....  b 
Elych  mor  hen  walchmai  Rys                                            ,, 

31  Anodd  bod  hebod  yn  ynys  .  Dywynn     ....  c 
Ni  bo  deheubarth  na  r  byd  bebod                                 „ 

34       [Gjenavr  Glynn  Tywynn  minteioedd  .  a  droes  ...  d 

yd  yr  aeth  i  glod  O  draeth  y  Glynn  „ 

36       [B]aich  tir  bryclian  .  bjiw  r  ieirll  bwrw  rann  ...  e 

Bwriwch  ynnav  .  wyr  brycheinnoc  „ 

40  JLyma  Compod  manuel :  Uyma  val  ygoffodir  Uythyrennav  yr 
■wythnos  ar  y  managvys  &c.  &c.  Much  of  what  remains  of  this 

fragment  is  hardly  legible.    For  another  copy,  see  MS.  75  below. 


MS.  53  =  Hen.  172.  Poetry,  Prophecies,  a  Drinking  Song 
(English)  &c.     Paper;  5|x4  inches;   136  pages;    after  1484. 

This  MS.  belonged  at  one  time  to  Jaspar  Griffith.  See  foot-note  to  p.  47  and 
Willis's  Baugor,  p.  149.  "  Broughton,  Jaspar  GrufEns  "  occurs  on  p.  19  ;  and 
Criffithe  Moris  de  llamwnok  ?    p.  15. 

Prophetical  compositions  by  Rys  vardd 
1       II  gorwyn  ac  arweyn  kyffryth  a  wneir  f 

a  pheir  mewyn  {sic)  eglwyseu     .... 
Heiil  galet  y  goleuny  yleny  a  geir  hyt  wyl  veir 
y  medy  a  henry  ay  wyr  a  gyil  normandy     .... 
hebii  a  wna  pren  gwern  cm  ar  ellmyn  . 
oil  y  dychlinyr  .  ny  ryfr  onyd  vn  lliin 
yngene  Hew  tew  tei  gwieliin 
gwylwyr  ym  paris  sandwys  heb  vn  dyn  . 

3       Arwyddteif  tywarchenpressen  ym  rodyr  euwyr  aflawen  .  .      g 
deii  ossot  manot  mynydd  a  vidd  difetha  .- 

6       Jr  assen  Iwydwen  hon  y  gen  ai  grydd     ....  h 

.  V  .  oderyn  a  dyria  .  anawdd  y  tarvu  hadu  a  geisant 
rvvng  y  klwyf'e  . 

9       Gruffydd  dda  davydd  dylyt  .  deiliat  parch  perchenoc  i 

y  goron     .... 
p)if  eirchat  ywr  assen  prif  seren  a  scwru3'a  . 

11       Meir  byeir  geir  da  .  ac  mal  y  dwat  y  deweda    ....  Jt 

llymar  keirw  yn  dyvot  llymar  not  ar  y  nawvet  . 

14  Gnawt  egin  a  gwyn  a  miigeii  yn  ol  gwynt  / 
Gnawt  yngwent  vynych  chwerthin  &c.  &c  .     .     . 

Giiawt  yn  rydhelyc  alar  a  bedd 

15  Owyr  mon  a  glwant  y  ar  vn  pen  bryn  m 
n-AVf  ygein  llywydd  heb  arch  heb  ddyvin  . 

ir  traeth  ko)  y  mon  llychlin  ,y  tyriyn  . 
byd  yn  aber  twin  hwy  a  holant  . 
Rac  kamwry  lloeger  ir  mor  y  kyliant  . 
byd  yn  ynys  danaoc  hwy  a  hwylant  . 
Oftrimawl  yddvawr  y  ddewy  vyddant  , 
pecked  o  ariain  y  ddewy  a  roddant  . 


404  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   53. 

Eac  kamwry  lloeger  ir  mor  j  kylyant  . 

A  thromgat  ywerddon  y  kyvarvyddant  . 

Ac  eiir  yii  echwin  yr  dromgat  a  roddant 

y  aber  deu  gleddeu  dieii  y  deiiant  . 

Pan  lithro  emys  leychlyn  yr  vel  ynys  . 

yna  y  bydd  treis  ar  seis  a  chymro 

yn  vrwys  lloeger  bleit  yn  y  herbyn  . 

hwy  a  gyrcliant  dengmyl  o  loeger  ac  velly  y  deuant  . 

pym  myil  o  dyr  ros  yn  nerth  a  gafPant  . 

Ac  Edmwnt  #«****  mor  gadarn  . 

Isaw  mil  o  saethyddyon  velly  y  deant . 

ynglas  dewy  hwy  a  gyrchant  . 

ac  ynglas  dewi  stableu  meyrch  ar  nos  verohergweitk 

hwy  a  ossodant  . 
^11  hawlfort  ar  ddyw  ieugweith  y  gosodant 
obob  parth  y  Jy  lloyger  y  gosodant . 
A  day  gleddy  yn  waet  hwy  a  gwelant  , 
saeson  heb  draet  hwy  a  gwelant  . 
XV  Mil  o    loyger    bleid  ar    draeth    ddeii    gleddii    y 

gorweddant  . 
A  chlwvoy  ir  Edmwnt  hwy  a  gallant  . 
Tu  ac  ataer  tywi  y  tynant  . 
Ac  yn  aber  tyvi  tew  galanedd  a  sayson  gwyrion  yn 

y  gorwedd  . 
yn  fiist  y  gabal  ydd  ym  gablant . 
a  thivy  yn  waet  hwy  a  gwelant     .... 
A  IX  Mil  o  loeger  bleid  y  lawr  a  vyddant  . 
yn  llanymddyfEri  y  kynawant  . 
anvec  gan  gymry  hwy  ae  kaffant  . 
Dwy  vyl  o  warthec  yr  llychllinwyr  a  roddant  . 
Brecbinoc  ar  vrys  hwy  a  goreskynant  . 
A  hoddni  yn  waet  hwy  ai  gwelant  . 
Ar  dinas  a  ynigeidw  mor  gadarn 

ac  ym  hen  y  teyr  withnos  oe  twill  y  hynein  y  kollant  .  . 
yna    y   anvagla    tan   ar  ddiiw  gwenergwyth  yn  tref   aber 

hoddni     .... 
yna  y  gwrhaa  kwbwl  o  vrechynoc  yr  gwr  a  elwyr  wein 
a  wledycha  ynys  brydeyn  . 
Batel  ymon  a  raaen  gwnlliw  hwy  a  roddant  . 
a  ryangoll  yn  waet  hwy  a  gwelant  a  ryaugoU  yn  lliwo  wise. 
Morganwc  ar  vrys  atto  y  dawant  . 

yn  y  castell  ko3  ar  gerenydd  y  kyvarvyddant    .... 
Gwr  o  dref  y  twr  wrth  reid  a  gaffant  . 
'  yn  aber  riwr  keis  llychlin  a  orddyweddaut  . 
A  clian  lychlin    hwy    a    gafant    v.atel   y  mon    a    byrwein 

yralaen  banw     .... 
liid  y  saru  ddii  ymlaen  bwch  y  kymynant  . 
Batel  yn  fynnou  galabes  a  ddechryant  . 
hyt  yng  hasstell  bacton  y  kymynnant     .... 
yn  y  ryd  go5  ar  leitbon  batel  a  roddant  . 
or  ryd  gO}  ar  leithon  hyd  y  ryd  g03  ar  gamlan      .     .     . 
ym  horth  kastell  bryn  amlwc  y  dechrynant  . 
dwy  vylltyr  dros  defidyawc  y  kymynant     .... 
yna  y  seif  Erir  ar  vaen  melin  ar  ddol  gwmynot 
ac  y  hif  y  wala  o  waet  gwyr  a  meirch  . 
yna  y  keffyr  gawrva  gan  seis  o  norraandi     .... 
yna  batel  a  rcdc'aut  yngroes  OfyraiU     .... 


THE  PROPHECIES  OF  ETS  VARDD.  405 

Batel  a  roddant  mewn  (ref  a  elwyr  wirxam     .... 
yn  holfort  y  sirtha  .  ix.  Mil  o  loeger  bleid     .... 
Ac  yna  y  keir  kaer  lleon  gawr  yn  ddi  ymrisson  . 
yna  y  dawaut  hyd  y  wold     .... 
yna  y  kila  lloegr  bleid  yn  y  hoi  hyd    yngbastell    newydd 

ar  diin  .  ac  ymdrawant     .... 
yn  abev  twrch  y  deiiant     .... 
yna  y  deuant  hyd  ardal  a  elwyr  kolbrwc  . 
yna  y  daw  gwi-  a  elwyr  Owein  y  wledychy  ynis  brydein  . 
Ac  yna  y  gwyskyr  y  goron  am  y  ben  ar  bont  lyndein    . 
Ac  .  .  .  y  gwysc  ynteii  y  goron  y  hiin  am  ben  beli  hir 
yna  tref  beli  hir  y  gelwyr  . 
Gorwynt  bono  a  wastatha  ynys  brydein  . 

25  Proest  taliessin  y  gelwyr  am  y  brwydreii. 

Ef  addaw  tri  goleuny  trwy  galon  ir  awyr     ....  a 

tychan  a  wnar  wadd  .  a  chydladd  ar  weddwr  .  nyt  arweit 
kael  y  lau  . 

27  y  maer  Ian  weddy  yn  gwcddy  yn  y  lie  maer  ar  ddrisseii    .    .  b 
y  may  chwedleu  y  teir  ynys  yn  llewys  y  kanhadeu  . 

28  Tjrydein  addiein  ay  damchwein     ....  c 
Ac  yn  y  lie  y  gelwyr  llindein  wein  a  vydd  yu  y  veddianu  .  . 
y  may  tarw  yn  torry  y  gadeir  . 

b.  Meistrolyaeth  y  byt  bywyt  bychedd  bychan  y  dehoglir  &c.        d 

29  Nyt  naw  y  bwyllaw  pell  hynt  amser  &c.  e 
b.      Tri  chwmpas  a  wneir  yn  lloegr  .  tri  o  ver  .  tri  ofan  a        f 

ddiskyn     .... 
gwysc  eureit  Owein  damchwyneii  mwynvawr 
a  gyvyt  bynydd  kynnydd  oleiilawr 
pan  vo  kyffro  ar  vro  hardd  vrenhinvawr. 


32  (kaspelhey  seixjf :  Dyn  ny  wypo  dim  o  da  ac  nys  dysco       .   .    g 

dyn  a  archo  pob  dim  ar  y  welo  .) 

33  (Dwirain  twym  sych  medd  amdeyrydd     ....  h 
Koes  lie  y  rew  is  y  Uoer                                Res  brychan*) 


34  Ef  a  gryn  llawr  llanllieni     ....  i 
byddau  yno  dridywarnod  yn  travodi  .  mein|| 

35  fGoruchel  diiw  golochit  ym  hob  va     .     .     .     .  h. 
Ar  a  veddylyeis  .  ac  a  ddigoneis  .  o  dreis  a  da  .  Taliessin 

43       Meir  yw  .  n  .  hedyr  rac  perigyl     ....  I 

drwy  fenestyr  o  wawt  rester  wydyr  ./ 

45  llyma  ir  awdl  bellach  .     Meir  lirddedic  ganmoledic  .  m 

Meir  garedic  mawr  gariadeii     .... 
kerdd  ny  khelyr  .  lie   y  gwelyr  .  y  Uiw  goleii 

Xfeuan  ap  Rythcrch 

*  Pages  32-33  are  in  a  later  hand. 

+  "  Bhai  a  alwant  y  gerdd  yohod  owdl  y  ddifregwawd  eraill  ai  geilw  Talaith 
cerdd  Eraill  ai  geilw  Owdl  Cariadoc  sant,  ond  y  mas  hen  gopi  mewn  menbrwn  He  y 
g  wn  i,  jn  dangos  mai  Jvan  Athro  Mynyw  ai  gwnaith  hi  "  [Jaspar  Griffith]  Vide 
Myr.  Arch.,  vol.  i.  p.  76. 

t  Ap  'Jeuan  Uoyd  gwr  bonheddig  o  cnau'r  glyn  yn  sir  Abertcifi  yn  amser  H.  5. 
Tad  y  gwr  hwn  a  bieuodd  y  llyfr  a  elwir  Y  Gwyn  i  liydderch  \i.e.  MSS.  4  &  5  supra] 
ac  y  Bydd  yn  awr  gj'da  mi.     Jasp.  Gr. 


406  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   53. 

48       Kreir  kred  kynnydd  .  creawdr  llu  bedydd     .... 

Ath  valch  diskynnyat  .  ar  dy  deheii  tat  .  Gr:  vab 

vot  yn  gyfranyat  .  oth  wlad  ath  wledd       Mred:  ap  id:* 

54       Hirgeii  glwth  herwth  hirosgl 

ywr  prol  glas  oerdras  arwdrwsgl     .... 
karned  gwed  gwall  •.  kornawr  mawr  mall  . 

hwyrgall  hirgeii   .  Jevan  ap  Rydderch 

60       Ti  ddiiw  addolwn  .  ti  a  weddiwn  . 

ti  addefwn  .  eiddym  ddovydd  .... 
Archwn  yn  gobeith  .  yr  erchyll  y  lleith . 
nam  llygreir  yn  veith  .  vyth  tragwydd./      [Jen:  ap  Roddi) 

64       Gwua  rwymyn  duUun  dall  wyt  ac  ynviit  &c. 

b.  (krist  kiin  er  dy  gissegredic  weddi  awnaethost  di  &c.  Dwed 

byn  deir  gweith  ac  ar  bob  Gweith  dweit  bader  ac  ave  maria  a  chredo.) 

06  (  To  staunche  bloode  :  fEyrst  make  a  crosse  ther  as  he  bleedeth 
wyth  thys  blessing  .  ^n  nomine  patrls  &c.) 

68       Mae  arovin  am  ryvel     .... 

mawl  y  euryawl  am  luryc     .... 

Kydyll  aer  roet  y  lluric  .  Y  giitto  o  bywys 

70        (rei  or  boneddicion  a  rydd  dwi  rod  achyddyor  drydedd 
ond  ni   welad  myredydd  yryoyd  yntory  tyroyd  rodd.^ 

b.  Croes  dyw  ywch  ras  a  dawn  &c. 

71  As  Merlyn  seid  in  hys  prophesy  that  in  the  bely  of  a  ly ones 
schalbe  create  a  blynd  worm  the  whych  schall  be  borne  an  ape  and 
fostyrd  a  Moll  itc.  &c. 

74  Yr  wythnos  a  ddaugosswn  a.  b.  c.  keffu  bys  kyvan  &c. 

h.  llythr  siil  yn  Haw  athro  sydd  &c. 

c.  Jas  gwyl  vathias  wrth  vydd  aed  issod  &c. 

d.  Jonawr  chwefrawr  mawr  mawrth  &c. 

e.  T  Uytheren  gyntaf  o  bob  mys  || 
75-76  Torn  oat  all  but  tbe  inner  margin  . 

77  Ebrill  tad  briallu  twf    .     .     .     . 
\  try  r  ddaii  ar  tri  ar  ddec 

h.  hyd  y  missoedd :  Vn  ai"  ddec  rif  dec  att  ligain  &c. 

78  SiM  ir  haul :  Bob  wyth  ar  hiigain  be  bai  &c. 

b.  Sikl  y  lleiiad :  Vn  deiinaw  dan  braw  medd  brawd  &c. 

c.  Modd  y  gael  y  prif :  Bwrw  a  wnawn  oed  brenin  nef  &c. 

79  prifiau  y  lloerau  dygynnwU :  Tri  pymp  wyth  nyt  llwyth  yn 
Haw  &c. 

b.  y  gael  y  mwnas  :  Mawrth  mai  gorffennaf  mwhaii  &c. 

c.  y  gael  Jdus  a  chalenda$  :  Vn  dydd  y  mae  r  kalendas  &c. 

d.  y  gaethii  priodassau :  O  loer  chwefror  oer  ar  eiriaii  &c. 

80  y  gael  yr  ynyd :  Eif  o  brifiau  ddaii  rrif  ddaii  ddydd  &c. 
6.  y  gael  y  pask :  Tri  dyaii  o  sylyau  y  sydd  &c. 

81  y  gael  y  grawys  ayaf:  Gwedi  gwyl  lini  lanaf  &c. 

b.  y  riddhau  y  priodasau :  Hilar  pask  bychan  y  voli  &c. 


*  Eraill  a  ddy wedact  mai  lolo  Goch  [ Jasp.  Gr.] . 


ASTRONOMY  AND   POETBY.  407 

c.  y  push  kynharaf :  Wedyr  trydj'dd  coddes  ja  &c. 

d.  y  gwyliaeu  savedic :  Kalanmis  jonawr  istwyll  keli  &c. 

82  y  myviliae  bellach  .  ^evan  vawr  peder  ifam  lawres  &c. 

83  Jtatoreii :  lywssan  Iwyd  wychran  ail  dechraii  &c. 

6.   Sid  y  krairiau  :  Gwyl  Thomas  ai  dras  dryt-sau  &c. 

e.  Diwarnodau  y  kwn :  Gorffeiiaf  drws  haf  pedwar  &c. 

84  diwarnodau  gicardd  gwaed ;    Or   missoedd    y  ddoedd  ddaii 
ddydd  /  ym  hob  mys  am  waed  yn  dragiwydd  &c. 

b.       Ail  gwawn  dyn  kaii  awn  drwy  Iwnyaeth  &c.  a 

85  Dyddiaii  blwyddyn  dyn  a  dynant  &c.  b 

b.  Achossion    y    delyr   ympridiet    duw    Gwener  yn    vwii    no 
diwartiod  arall :  duw  ,  G  .  y  pechawdd  Addaf  &c. 

86  Y  gioenere  gwinyon  :  y  kyntaf  gwener  o  vawrth  «fce. 

h.     (naw  ygain  mlynedd  gya  maithin  dd  ydywd  [=  ?  da  y  dywod]  tal  iesin     c 
]c  genid  ymro  gynin  brydudd  au  guwydd  val  gwin)  Anon 

c.  (y  stopi  gwayd :  yn  gynta  gwna  groes  &c.)     Cf.  MS.  53,  p.  66. 

88       Kleddeu  a  wnaei  assei  yn  issyc     ....  d 

watkyn  .  .      vychan  o  raglan  ai  roes     .... 

llosgy  y  vorwin  or  llwyn  llwyd     .... 

y  dyir  kwlen  y  dawr  keyloc     .... 

Gwrdd  oedd  drygaredd  y  ddaw  Davydd  llwyd 

91       Damyno  da  ym  eneid  e 

heniddio  ir  wy  hyn  oedd  reid     .... 

y  naeth  ef  oi  winyaeth  oli  Jolo 

96       kyn  gwannwyn  y  kywin  gwainyaid  f 

■  Syr  Eys  issod  gwaer  saeson 
Gan  weled  fyrved  y  fon     .... 
y  gwr  enwoc  o  ronwy 
Ai  fon  hyr  ai  gorfen  hwy  Dd:  llwyd  ap  Uyn  ap  Gr: 

99       Ambwyo  vydd  am  bwys  g 

mawr  draw  nee  ymyrred  rys     .... 

Penvro  y  gyd  pan  vwro  gwaith 

A  wna  yn  ynya  yn  vn  iaith  Hobyn  hwd 

103  De  ffratribus  et  sororibtis — a  Drinhing  Song 

'^\\esa  lord  owr  heavenly  kyng     ....  /j 

The  wych  schall  be  a  potell  of  good  ale     ...     . 

ifurst  loke  that  the  cope  be  full     .... 

Be  ye  pryst  be  ye  clerk 

ye  schall  be  no  bredryn  of  mjne         .  Explicit  , 
112       Hywel  a  wnaeth  mab  maeth  medd  { 

Awen  gein  ywein  gwynedd     .... 

Dyskeis  y  eang  frangec 

Doeth  ywr  dysc  da  ieith  dec 

Dyelleis  da  ythreis  eithr 

Daet  kael  petheii  dieithr     .... 

a  ddengys  a  bys  heb  eii 

ffurf  y  byt  fyryf  wybodeu     .... 

Ar  neit  ym.  eneit  Amen  Rydderch  ap  Jevan  llwyd 

120       Rywyr  medd  aysynhwyrei  k 

Da  moes  mil  y  daw  mys  mei     .... 


408  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   53. 

Eys  vonlieddyc  a  ddigyei 

Am  gyffl^bii  maeddii  mei  Rys  up  Tudyr 

122       Och  gymry  vynych  gamreith     ....  a 

a  heddiw  yn  ddyhuddir 
Ar  drei  lieb  na  thei  ua  tbir     .... 
Disgwil  y  ddym  a  dysgii     .... 
Gobeithaw  a  ddaw  y  ddwyf  John  kent 

126  ILytvelyn  :  Gwynedd  kavas  dy  genedl  b 

Gwyn  die  nyt  echydic  chw[e]dl 
pan  las  heb  gel  lywelyn 
Dewys  gwr  oedd  dewyssoc  yn 
Bwriat  oedd  a  brat  yddaw 
Amwyll  drill  ymyellt  draw 
Gobraf  y  kawssom  di'afEerth 
Ac  yu  ol  ny  a  gawn  nerth 
Taliessin  deii  vyrddin  veirdd 
Ar  degwch  geirieu  digeirdd 
Da  ar  ostec  drwy  ystjT 
yw  yn  gobeith  raedd  gweitli  y  g^vyr 
Pan  ddel  a^  kyrn  buelin 
Or  tir  draw  y  tarvv  ir  drin 
Ay  onvaes  mawr  yno  y  myn 
Jarll  eilweyth  tir  llywelyn 
Gwaharddwr  ar  gwayw  hirddellt 
Saeson  gwnaet  y  gwaet  ir  gwellt 
Tna  y  syrr  yn  oes  harri 
y  wadd  yn  ymladd  a  ni 
yn  oes  hwn  pwyllwn  yn  well 
y  tyr  tan  y  teir  tynnell 
pan   ddel  yr  haf  hyr  velin 
Ar  gorvot  yn  dyvot  in 
A  Uedu  hwyleu  yn  llydaw 
Ar  tes  ny  ddwywres  a  ddaw 
Ac  ir  oera  geir  eras 
yr  ennein  twym  or  vn  tes 
Mae  arwyddon  am  roddi 
GoiTOt  wrth  y  not  y  ni 
Y  gyt  pan  gano  yn  gedyrn 
Ganwr  ar  gaer  gylchwr  gyrn 
yna  y  bydd  tan  y  raanaw 
Ar  ymwan  driit  y  mon  draw 
pan  ddel  dechre  ryvel  rydd 
y  kiirir  gwyr  y  keyrydd 
ynghaer  ae  gwyr  anghywreint 
y  briwyr  swrn  yn  aber  seint 
Gwae  or  ymliw  gwyr  amlwc 
Gyfnn  a  geif  drin  a  drwc 
A  chaer  dinbuch  oe  hares 
A  than  ryddlan  a  ros 
Ryvel  anwar  ycidaraw 
Ryvedd  o  diwedd  y  daw 
Rac  cleddeii  y  deheubarth 
Rac  koler  eiir  y  kilar  arth 
pan  ddel  y  mab  gwyddelyc 
A  Haw  yn  ddewr  ar  llii  yn  ddyc 
Ar  gwr  hen  geir  a  honyr 


ELEGY  TO   PRINCE  LLEWELYN,   ETC.  409 

A.  ovin  dervia  y  dyr 

A  chroes  duw  a  roes  yu  rwydd 

Aur  a  wysk  ar  y  yskwydd 

Aiir  ddawlwaet  ar  y  ddeii  lin 

wr  dewr  drut  y  daw  yr  driu 

Deheu  a  gyvyt  oe  gyvia 

7  deuith  gyda  mab  y  dyn 

Ac  yn  y  ryt  gwn  y  redan 

y  tywot  gorvot  a  gan 

A  gyrrii  plant  ac  wyron 

Eonwen  syrth  or  ynys  hou 

jna  y  kawn  randatavlid 

yr  hen  gwyn  ae  ran  o  gud 

Ar  byt  a  ddaw  yn  llawen 

Or  dywedd  y  wynedd  wenn         ^eti:  b.  hir  o  vyrrionnydd 

.130      Duw  varglwydd  dioverglot     ....  a 

Eva  y  wnath  in  oviid 
A  Uwyr  ddigassedd  a  lliid  || 

A  series  of  Political  Prophecies. 

131       Anno  d'ni  si.cccc.  octogesimo  qnario  b 

Draco  cxxm  cauda  veniet  cnm  Kubia  rosa 
A  dragun  w*  a  rede  res  p*  ys  of  gj-ete  fame 
A  bastard  in  wedloc  boryn  schall  he  be 
p^  crown  to  optayne  he  wyll  chalenge  by  name 
but  ij  j.evcs  &  mor  pe  blew  bor  schall  liaue  degre  &c. 

~b.       *'E]piscopics  now  natw*  gene;'osi  corona  gau  debit  c 

Vt  potest  dice  atgallw*  sit  semper  sine  ve 
A  bysschop  p«  crown  schall  haue  in  gouernawce 
And  neuer  boryn  to  p*  astate 
p*  comyns  on  hym  schall  aske  a  vengance 
ffor  he  schalbe  p*  caws  of  grete  debate     &c. 

134       Then  schall  p=  nobyll  prince  George     ...  d 

A  virgin  tryw  he  schalbe 
p*  p*  holy  cros  he  schall  wyn 
p^  nobyl  prince  of  Jesse 
God  .  b  .  h  .  s  .  to  .  h  . 

136  Wor  to  take  f mollis  "  r«'  a  manes  haiidds  :  Take  pe  syd  of 
Tienban  pe  syd  of  popys  and  .syd  of  lettuse  and  y"  syd  of  hemlockya  and 
bete  hem  yn  a  moiter  &c.\\    . 


MS.  54  Part  i  =  Hen.  270.  POETRY  by  D.  ap  Gwilim, 
loLO  GocH,  Ro;  Kae,1Lwyd,  D.  Epynt,  Rhys  Vaedd,  Howel 
SwKDWAL,  Y  Nant,  &c.  &c.  Paper  ;  5|  X  4^  inches  (pp.  1-178), 
5i  X  4i  inches  (pp.  179-366),  and  5f  X  41  inches  (pp.  357-448)  ; 
448  pages ;  in  two  cases.     Late  xvth  and  xvith  centuries. 

Pages  21-112  belonged  apparently  to  "Meistr  Wilhiam  Herbart  Gwrser"  (see 
footnote  to  p.  21)  and  were  written  probably  before  1484.  There  are  various  hands : 
the  poems  of  Dd:  Epynt  are  (in  this  and  MS.  60)  all  in  one  hand  ;  those  of  H.  Cae 
Llwyd  and  H.  Swrdwal  are  in  another  (see  MS.  54  part  ii)  ;  those  of  Ehys  Vardd  in 
a  third  hand,  &c.  This  MS.  like  Nos.  55  and  60  belonged  to  "  Jobannis  lewis  "  and 
the  peculiar  "  cramped  hand "  (pp.  1-20)  is  found  in  all  these  MSS.  Pages  1-2, 
5-6,  10,  18-20,  113-14,  128,  196,  207-8,  288-89  are  blank, 

*  This  probably  refers  to  Archbishop  Morton. 
E     98430.  H 


410  I'ENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   54. 

3       llyma  pedwar  me[ssur]ar  arhygein  kyntaf  *  *  #  a 

makym  6n  hir  :  k  k  k  k     vttt    ktkt     kkkk&c. 

7  f  syrisiart   [=  Syr  Risiarl]   Jierbard 

y  dder6en  o  ddayOryd     ....  g 

arver  da  y  byr6yn  bycha  c6yn  \y  Jeu:']del6yn 

8  yieyrcvvyn  sr6ar  cOent  [Yr  ij-yr  gwyn  ar  war  Gwoiit]  .  .       c 
a  Gnayth  av  tyi-  ny  chOarthaf  hyrbynllys 

11  y  dyii  a  had  o  no  hen     ,     ,     .     .  g 
nyd  af  ine  or  nyadd                                                  Ho^A  d^ 

12  lane  ynt  wyryon  aceid(?)     ...  e 
mi  a  byth  yr*os  dyby                                            byr6y\ii\Hys 

15  Yr  yn  veir  |  meir  yin  henry     ....  f 
ran  oy  c6yrth                                                                       rrisert 

16  Hardd  6iliam  |  arcl6yd  raclan     ....  « 
anvonOch  o  nef  |  ceiryn6ech 

21*  Arthur  vap  vthr  benn  drag6n  llyfr  y  kyfrOyddyd  y6  h6nn. 
pwy  bynac  a  vynno  kerdd  keised  yn  h6nn  ac  ef  ai  keiff  yn 
dda  :  ys  nyfeddaf  kyn6yf  bardd  vric  nioriddic 
6.       Meistr  Wilhiam  herbart  Gwrserf  A 

c.       Tvrth  hjnny  Gwyn  i  vyd  a  vo  da  j 

d.,  25  mynn6n  vymod  am  aunedd  y  mon  yn  llannerch  y  medd      k 
&  130  y  dyn  gwyn  dan  y  ganaid  Sy  vn  ffri6  a  san  ffraid 
22       Ymerchi  mae  [?  mad]  Eirchiaid     ,     .     ,     ,  I 

dwys  i  GweyOyd  wise  ayaf  Anon 

24  Pyngkiav  avrwydd  drwyr  vlwy[ddy]n     ....  m 
kyvliw  gwersyllt  gwyllt  a  gwar                                        „ 

25  kyvlvnddelw  gogr  kyvlawn  ddellt     ....  tt 
wrth  bryd  llwyr  vryd  y  lloer  vry                                     „ 

27       Astudio  ddwyf  was  didwyll     ....  o 

asw  a  mi  ^essv  amen  „ 

33       Ni  a  garwn  y  gwryd  p 

ar  Haw  a  vedd  yr  holl  vyd     .... 

dy  vynwes  a  geidw  venaid  G  E 

36       Am  gwal  dan  y  gwyal  da     ...     .  q 

di  vyr  chwedl  i  dei  vaurehwayr  xiiii  .  Dauit  ap  guiliia 
yi       Yr  haul  deg  ar  vyneges     ....  r 

^  gynnal  ymorgannwg/  .xv.         „  „ 

41       Val  yr  oeddwn  yn  myned     ....  s 

addewid  gwir  vydd  oed  gwenn     .  xvj  .         ,,  ., 

43       Kynghorvynt  wann  vrytaniaid     ....  t 

byw  yJiw  ef  a  bid  wir  .xvtj.  „  „ 

46       Keissiaw  yn  le[w]  heb  dewi     ....  u 

Er  ay  keidw  anrawg  hoywdal     .  xviij.  „  „ 

49       Y  veinvereh  hwde  vanvodd     ....  v 

Ath  ogyvoed  ath  gavas  .  x[v']iiij  .        „  ,, 


*  There  arc  three  different  handwritings  on  this  page  and  all  three  are  later  thaa 
the  pages  following. 

t  Courser.  The  first  and  second  earls  of  Pembroke  were  Masters  of  the  Game  in 
Trellek-Chase,  &e.  (1468-1491). 


rOETEY   BY   D.   AP   GWILTM,  ETC, 


411 


52 

54 

56 

59 

61 

63 

65 

68 

71 

73 

75 

78 

80 

83 

86 

88 

83 

91 

93 

93 

99 

104 
.  109 


Dyddgwaith  dibech  vv  echtoe     . 
A  ha  wraig  y  bwa  bach 

Ayth  vliv  dros  vrig  wyth  aylwyd 
Tegach  oedd  hoiino  no  neb 

Auryches  y  kay  mangoed     .     .     . 
Ar  vo  haf  i  auryches 

Clo  a  roed  ar  ddrws  y  ty     .     . 
yma  y  ddwyf  a  may  ddwyd 

Y  donn  benugrlonn  grochlais     . 
Nam  lludd  at  vorvvdd  veurverch 

CcsspvTr  y  mai'wol  bechawd     .     . 
Ath  gywydd  iaith  ddi  gyweir 

gwann  i  wnllvn  vrawd  gwuii  wawd  wiw 


XX  .     Daiiit  ap  gtiiliva. 


■  V 


II J 


III] 


V  .  Madog  Bennvras 


f 


.    VI} 


Vll) 


XJ 


XIJ 


benngamv  heb  vn  gymar 

Gway  vi  o  gariad  gwiw  vvn 
loywswydd  wiw  lesev  oedd  well 

dysgeis  dwyn  Cariad  essgud     . 
yn  wir  ni  manegir  mwy 

Dyi3s[g]eis  ryw  baradvvysgeingk 
Ac  en  kayl  kanv  r  geingk  horm 

Kerdda  Vi^as  kayr  ddewiswyidd 
Kid  vvydd  neb  ond  jvor 

gway  wr  er  a  gai  o  ora     .     , 
y  mendith  yny  mowndir 

Dwynwen  deigr  arien  degwch 
yr  em  wyryroi  ym  wared 

mevanwy  lywwy  liwod     . 
mair  a  ro  drwg  mawr  ir  drych 

hydr  y  gwddest  ail  indeg 
Ac  annerch  dy  hvn  geunyd 

heddiw  gwelaf  ddavydd     . 
i  theked  ai  na  thykia 

kerddeis  o  vewn  kyd  leissiau 
llnddiodd  vi  He  ddoedd  y  vvn 

mav  gariad  mewn  magwriayth 
mav  vwgwth  am  i  vagv 

Ef  ayth  heddiw  yn  ddi  way  1     . 
y  du  leidr  y  del  adref 

drud  jawn  y  gwyddywn  dy  dro     . 
ysgwd  pan  vo  gwag  is  gil  .  xviiij  . 

Oer  gahlonn  dan  vronn  o  vraw     . 
llywelyn  nyd  rrydd  ym  rrodd  ym  rrodd 
gwir  vroiniawl  vrenin  Aberti'ravv 
gwenwlad  nef  oi  addef  yddavv         ,  xx  . 

^tbel  eon  ith  alw  y  ddwyf     .     ,     ,     . 
Gway  ni  y  marw  hi  mor  hwyr 

llywelyn  eryr  gwyr  gwych     .... 
mi  biavr  tav  mab  jor  teg  (i.  53)  || 


vj   .  Dauit  ap  ffuilim 


k 
I 


.  xnj   .  Madog  bennvras 
xiiij  .   Dauit  ap  guiliva. 


P 


xvj 


XVf) 


XVllJ 


wissgaw  .... 

gr.  ap  yr  yngnad 

1 
Johlo^o-i 

H   2 


412  PENIAETE   MANUSCRIPT    .54<. 

115        II  (Iragywydd  i-  rrydd  y  rrot  a 

wennwynic  y  minav  i  dyrnot     .... 
drwy  gado  dr^gyOydd  Dauid  Epynt 

121        Oen  duO  oedd  yn  dioddef     ....  b 

Y  nydd  y  varn  i  ddaf  i        •  »  « 

124       Blin  o  vab  i  Ivu  6yfi     .     .     .     .  c 

Gyrr  iii  allaf  yn  gltifaeh 
Gathen  6yan  y  gOytlii  n  iath* 

127       Y  sant  a  las  liwrit  &\  lin  &c.  (7  lines)  d 

129  Rby  a  Rwy  draO  a  thra6  ymdoeth  i  doethan     .     .     .     .      e 
lliaOs  pan  briCier^  Uiaws  pan  ffoer 

Iliads  ev  hymchoel  yn  ev  hymOan  Taliessin 

b.       Saith  meib  Elifier  SaithOyr  pan  brofer  &c.  Myrddin 

130  Mab  mair  ai  gadair  gaded  &c.  f 

131  Paticr  amwyait  a  u^nycli  grodo  ,  g 
A  gnno  rac  eneit  hyt  angav 

Gorav  gorddyfnait 

b.       Mab  wllym  dew  ni  thewai.s     ....  h, 

Bit  ith  wyneb  doeth  henaint  Anon 

133-81  Proverbs:  A  vynno  duw  ys  dir  i 

Acliub  maes  mawr  a  dryc  varch     .... 
A  ddyko  y  got  ymborthet  o  honi 
Bas  pan  wabaner  bynny.|| 

139  Eepetitions  from  page  2l  ifl  the  same  hands 
duO  a  digon  beb  ddu6  heb  ddim 

mab  dd:  ap  Gr:  ap  dd:  hil  Morgan,  bil  ]vor  &c. 

140  Annercb  a  charyad  Gennyfl  ddj  Hocait  (?)   hz, 

141  Dy  dir  a  gred  i  dy  r  groc  k 
da  vro  ych  enOid  vrycheinioc     .... 

nad  a  nglyn  eneidiav  ngwlad  Ho:  cae  llwyt 

143       ILymar  byd  lie  mae  r  bedydd     ....  / 

sens  i  bost  sain  sabastyan  || 

149  Gogofoedd  ac  a  gaf  i     .     .     .     .  m 
gad  yra  bwnn  gydam  henaid                                  „           „ 

150  Roes  duw  wared  ynn  gwledydd     ....  n 
gyda  ni  moes  i  gadw  n  well                                 „           „ 

154       Y  dialwr  rrwng  dwywlad     ....  o 

mab  Torgau  waywdan  ydwyd 
Meredudd  val  map  lludd  llwyd     .... 
nid  tref  yO  ouid  tra  vych  Ho:  kae  llwyd 

157       Y  groc  aur  droedec  drydoU     ....  p 

^essT  wr  hael  sy  ar  bwnnj 

163       llvnyaf  ddeall  awenydd     ....  q 

']  gy''  y"  veudigedig  Rys  dyfnwal 


*  Whether  this  poem  ends  hero  is  not  evident.  The  few  lines  which  follow  arc 
later.     ^ 

f  The  order  of  these  pages  are  reversed  in  the  MS. 

J  This  is  the  hist  line  on  p.  162,  but  whether  it  is  the  last  line  of  the  poem  there 
is  nothing  to  show. 


/* 


MERDDIN'S  PEOPHJiCY,   ETC.  413 

166       Trwyll  ebrwydd  y  troliynt     ....  « 

am  knawt  yr  vedrawt  i  vam       Ho:  ap  dd.  ap  feu:  ap  Rrijs 

168       Haeleddawc  hir  vo  peryf  nyw  paro     ....  b 

rrad  yCgOIad '  heb  eissiav 
ked  kerdd  yOr  kaanv  h6nn  ac  velly         Taliessin  at  kant 

h.      ys  rryveddaf  kynn  bOyf  bavdd     .... 

hyd  angav  gorav  gorddnaid  Arthur  ar  eryr  ai  kant* 

176       [Y]  ddavddyu  am  ddyweddi     ....  d 

Mab  mair  a  wiiair  yn  nerth  Davydd  up  jeuan  dv\ 

179  Picy  bynnac  a  vynno  dyscy  kerdd  davod  dysged  y  llyfr  h6nn  yn  ddyval. 
6.  Gl'm  ap  dd.  Gopa  \pr  Topa]  ap  11'  Thorn  ap  dd.  ap  Gr.  llevky  n6ytt. 
c.  hardd  pob  newydd  diddestl  pob  hen  &c.  &c. 

181       Yn  gwynnvyd  i  gyd  vv  gael  y  ddevddyn     ....  e 

Mae  plas  yr  vrddas  ai  rym 
Yn  tyfv  tai  ^evan  ap  gwilyra     .... 
iessu  yn  maeth  as  hOn  ai  myn  || 

185  amkan  kaOad  kad  a  6na  kyOeddva  / 
mig  a  dy£  ar  Giall  mi  ai  defnyddya  &c.            Rrys  vardd 

h.      kad  teithi  Oeithiav  a6eithiant  yn  ddrOc  o  g 

gynnav  mwc  ynglan  teivi  &c.  &c.  ,,         ,, 

186  Dasgvbo  aOnai-  kymro  y  vro  Ac.  ,,         ,,       h 
b.  TLyTna   y  bryff^ydolyaeth  verr    a  icnaifh    Merddin    gerbronn 

Arthvr :  Arthur. a  ovynnaOdd  i  verddin  pa  saOl  brenin  aOledyciia  ynys 
y  kedyrn  gOedy  mi  om  g6aed  i  lieb  ef    chGech  heb  yntav     pwy  gOedy 

hynny      Sais  &c ends:  a  £Ean  vo    oedran   yr   arglGydd  |  av 

ddec  a  davgain  a  fEedwar  kant  a  mil  ynna  i  bydd  aedd%'et  hoU  ddyro- 
gainaV  ynns  [sic]  brydain  a  neillredec.  Myrddin  ai  kant  [sic] 

190  .     klyOitior  gwynt  kly6ittior  gGagecId  Taliessin   i 

klyOittior  meibion  am  i  bonedd     ....  ai  kant 

klitior  \_sic]  mab  diiw  ai  dad  yn  rroddi  od  ddj  ll6yt 

193       A  hwyddedic  beney  a  bychan  ssynbwyrev  &c.  k 

b.  llyma  vreiddwyd  gronw  ddu 

Y  Gwr  dyvyad  gradivael  / 

'    •   Eglwysig  bonheddic  liael 

Syr  lewys  ....  Mab  hyOel  o  lyOel 
vo  Gelai  dduv^  val  i  ddoedd 

197       O  gwnaeth  cbwyrn  gedyrn  gawadav  m 

dduavv  o  ddwywent  iiyd  gleddav     .... 
o  bennbrwc  vo  due  bannbri     .... 
Edward  arglwydd  herbard  hen     .... 
Yn  lleG  yn  Gythwell  yn  lie  a  Gnaethon        Ho:  cae  JLivyd 

202       Gwr  wyf  nit  traid  gGrafyn  n 

a  gar  yn  vwy  noc  yr  yn     .     .     .     . 
gydoes  a  hi  gidi  saint  Ho:  ap  dd.  ap  jeu:  ap  Rrys 

2QQ' Armcs  :%  Disgogan  awen  dygobryssyn     ....  o 

gGnahGynt  gorvoledd  gGedy  gGehyn 

*  See  Myvijrian,  vol.  i.  p.  176  =  130. 

t  Uflder  this  signature  is  written  in  a  contemporary  hand  .  Dd.  ap  ywain  ap 
mredydd  eva  lloyd. 

J  The  text  after  the  fourth  line  differs  from  that  in  the  Myvyrian,  vol.  i, 
p.  71  =  61. 


414  PENCARTH    MANUSCEIPT    54-. 

a  chymod  kymry  a  g6yr  dvlyn 

gOyddyl  ][e6erddon  a  gOyr  mou  a  ffrydyn     .... 

pell  bwynt  kychmyn  yOrthevyrn  gOynedd 

ef  a  yrraOd  allmyn  y  alltvdvdd     .... 

llaith  anobaith  n-ydrygyrehysant     .... 

oes  oessav  ev  trethsv  nis  esgorrant 

yuglioet  y  mars  ym  ryn  kannwyll 

yn  dy6yll  augei'dd  go  geiinyn 

kynan  yn  rragOan  ymbob  eisgyn     .... 

iii  6y6  ni  6ellic  ni  fflyc  ni  chrydd  Taliessin 

The  Prophecies  of  Rhys  Vard 
228       Ef  a  ddaw  pererin  per  y  arwyddyon     ...  a 

brOyer  ar  vaes  glas  kas  gaun  Saesson  Rrys  vardd 

230       llyma  vyd  rryvedd  rrvfain  sx  benn     ....  b 

llyma  lafnevy  deav  yn  dihedd  llyma  ryfeddywain 

b.       Naw  kwys  anwahardd  a  erddir  y  leni  ....  c 

yr  Oythvet  yn  llet  no  Uv  henrri 
ar  nawvet  a  roddet  y  radd  gyfodi 

232  kyfyd  ffaii-  rrOng  pedair  ffynnonn     ....  d 
arvav  yn  rrydv  detv  rrydldyav 

233  Yr  assen  16yd0enn  hen  i  gen  ai  griidd  &c.  e 

234  ILyma  y  dydd  rryvedda  f 
gwyut  a  glaw  beth  a  dda6  wedyr  gaya  &c. 

b.       Mi  a  yssodaf  rad  y  me&n  y  donn     ....  g 

Mi  a  ysodaf  gyfoeth  me6n  ymrysson 

235  Pan  ddel  y  diafarchlv  o  varcblenn  aber  hodni  ....        h 
da6an  yr  gaer  lie  bv  verddin  ai  ch6aer  yn  ymch6err6i   .   .   . 
dala  Nai  vab  chOaer  y  vchelvaer  llvndain 

237  Pan  glyOo  dyfuaint  y  keraint  yn  karii  kyfodi     ....«' 
a  lU'ndain  yn  llefain  am  gelaiu  wenn  ai  ffen  ar  Ian  g6yli 

b.       brenin  mvd  or  krvd  g6ae  ai  kred  &o.  k 

238  Gnawd  egiu  a  g6in  yn  ol  gOynt  I 
gnaOt  yngOent  vynycb  hOertliin     .... 

guaGd  y  yOain  dorri  ffin     .... 

gnaOt  rrin  gan  gadarn  guaOt  barn  o  ben  tri  dyn  .     .     . 

gnaOt  digofain  riGng  dav  \vr 

240  Meistrolaetb  y  byd  byOyd  bycban  buchedd  y  dehonglir  &c.  m 

241  Nevd  brainaOl  hvdaOl  hadev  n 
gOyllOyr  ym  haris  sand6is  heb  vn  dyn 

242  Ar6ydd  tir  tywarchen  pressen  ym  rodir  enwir  aflawen  ...      o 
blodevyn  ar  ddyg6ydd  ar6ydd  yn  rryd  ychen 

kocb6yn  yd  r  llavad  kad  j'mlaen  dalen 

244  mi  a,  archa  yr  ych  gorvcbel  p 
gyrcbv  kil  y  rryd  a  chad6'r  byd  ni  anel  iSc 

b,      Ef  a  ddaw  gwylan  a  bran  a  brenin  y  ar  dvd6y  ...  q 

yny  llaO  ef  a  ddaw  byd  o  neOydd 

245  Pair  y  sydd  parod  yOres  y  bob  gormes  &c.  «' 

246  Mi  a  ddanvonnaf  havl  a  thes  ar  |  Naid     ....  s 
ac  or  eir6  lleOych  yr  ych  a  v0r6  krychnaid 

b.      Ef  a  gair  o  ddy vry  bob  addeOid  yn  y  vraint  &c.  t 


PROPHECIES   BY  RHYS   VARDD,   ETC.  415 

247  Porthor  y  gilddor  heb  e  gorri  o 
ynghvdd  Nid  oes  vvdd  i  henrri     .... 

na  ffarch  gan  wr  mavch  yn  y  vyw 

b.       Mi  a  anvonnaf  vaeu  a  tliri  nior  yudaw  &c.  b 

248  Dwy  vran  y  sydd  ynghedernid  llocgr  <&c.  c 

249  Efo  vydd  dadlav  y  rrwng  y  dail  &c.  d 

250  Ef  a  lvny6yd  y  vrevddOyd  a  gOreiddyu  i  ddi  &c.  e 

b.       Mi  a  6elaf  vlaen  rret  llu  y  veddyges     ....  / 
mi  a  Oelaf  With  ym  hob  dyffrynn 

252  byd  a  Oelir  liir  hydref  a  goedran     ....  g 
a  cbrefydd  a  vydd  yn  iOedd  y  rryfelav 

253  Ef  a  vydd  gOedy  hynn  dervynn  a  dirva6r  ymdara6  ...       h 
dwy  adaia  gyda  saitli  gorddaffaith  a  ddifiydd  d6ylan  hodni 

255  byd  a  welir  klyd  goliid  vnic  mandda  &c.  i 

256  ef  tri  golevni  dr6y  galon  &c.                                   '  k 


heb  ddu6  heb  ddim  du6  a  digon  I 

Mae  Gras  ac  yrddas  i  GerddOr  &c.  m 


257*  Marwnad  Robert  o  "  vro  veisgynn   .  .  y  inorgannwc" 

Mi  a  gevais  dras  [?]  a  drwc     ....  n 

Ni  cheisiwn  Nef  uai  thvevi 

be  gwypwn  nas  kai  hwnu  hi  Ho:  Surdwal 

2602Marionad  "  Siun  ap  Rosser  guilder  gwent " 

Mawr  yw  eissav  am  resswm     ....  o 

y  pair  iessv  vab  rrossier  Ho:  S 

263  Mar:  "  siankyn  wynn  .  .  .   Twrbil " 

Ni  charaf  vis  na  chaer  vain     ....  p 

Aet  ar  gwr  i  drugaredd  Ho:  Siirdeval 

266  Mar;  " gruffydd  vab  Jevami  wyr  veiiric"  o  gaer  llion 

krevlawn  o  wr  iawn  a  rann     ....  q 

bo  i  ruffudd  y  brifFordd  J  dir  nef     .... 

Ar  enait  hwnn  ir  vn  ty  Ho:  Surdeval 

269  Mar:  Wm;  iarll  Penvro ;   Ni  bo  i  berchen  bwa  ;■ 

Eakw  n  svvydd  ioili  viios  dda     .... 

Bwriat  a  gwaith  a  brat  gwjr 

banbri  ydoedd  benn  bratwyr     .... 

lolhardiait  traeturiait  hen 

yut  erioet  ant  ir  wden     .... 

Ar  rrif  a  vv  varw  hevyt 

ir  nef  gyt  ac  ef  i  gyt  Ho:  Sirdival 

273       ai  brOd  ai  rrost  bordav  rrydd  s 

brae  g6enyn  a  brie  g6in0ydd     .... 

kaner  a  cIiadGer  vychOedel 

kadO  gynnoc  yn  kyd  genedl 

gardd  vrychan  g6reiddva6r  achav     ....    Ho:  ap  dd: 

ym  yO  honno  ym  henaint  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rrys\ 

*  This  page  is  rubbed  aud  the  readings  are  uncertain  in  part. 

t  Under  this  signature  is  written  in  the  tame  hand  Di:  Llwyd  J  hynd  6  6 


416  PENIA.RTH   MANUSCRIPT    54. 

277       pedOar  kynn6r  ar  vrys  a  dJaO  jr  ynys     ....  or 

a  hynny  a  ddiffeithia  rr6ng  wysc  a  hodni         Rrys  vardd 

279  Ef  a  dda6  haf  hir  velyn  ac  angav  deissyfet     ....       b 
efo  biav  y  ddarogan  yu  dragy6ydd  „         „ 

280  bvm  ivangk  di  vra6  llaOeu  c- 
wyf  bellach  hayach  yn  hen     .... 

vyngOallt  a  vv  ddv  ry6  ddydd 

inae  n  6yn  iaOa  val  G6yn  g6a6n  gOeyudd 

maer  Grvdd  yn  Grjch  ddi6ycli  6edd 

Ef  a  dyn6yd  y  dannedd 

Maer  kefn  trefn  travael 

yn  Gam  ac  ni  alia  gel 

y  troet  i  bob  hen  i  try 

yn  drOm  wedy  dirymy     .... 

Ef  a  hOpir  y  GOirion 

dros  y  ffordd  ar  draOs  i  ffon     .     .     . 

Mar6  yn  iangk  6iOdrang  6tdd 

Myn  duO  o^dd  orev  diOedd     .... 

Ma6r  i  gOnan  a  glan  i  glod 

a  bychan  i  Tydd  i  bechod  Ho:  ap  rrisiarP 

284  Duw  a  mair  a  myhangel  a  holl  Saint  nef  ae  holl  santesev 
am  nertho  ac  am  l(at6o  heddiO  a  ffynydd  a  ffyth  hyd  yn  oes  oesoedd 
ameu  poed  Gwir  ynghardod 

b.     J  prelad  gwastad  ar  Gwin  d 

preladaidd  pyr  i  ladin     .... 
syr  ]on  dirion  deirent 
yn  avro  g6yr  yn  oror  g6ent 
]  theiroes  i  h6n  ni  thorir* 
287  llyma  ganv  y  porth  bychan 

pedestric  a  wnaf  yr  porth  pan  ddevaf     ....  e 

a  henO  dy  hendat  kynn  oi  vedyddyad 

persson  yn  iaith  foUo-wed  by  2  binnk  pages  Awm 

290       prydy  aOnaf  mOyaf  m&(A     ....  / 

Mae  ny  nef  vn  mann  i  ni 

Yma  er  ail  y  mro  wyli     .... 

am  ernest  llyma  arno  lewys  y  cjlynn 

293       Dyw  aranno  dr6y  einoes  g: 

dev  ddauidd  mathev  ym  oes     .... 

wyron  tywyssogyon  y  sydd  llawdden 

297  llyma  vychedd  |  mewn  plas  yr  oedd  |  .  .  .  .  Anna  dec  &c. 

298  annerch  a  charyad  genyfi  dd.  .ap  morgan  ap  dd.  ap  ]euan  ap 
dd.  to  caer.  Seep.  180  where  the  same  dd:  addresses  apparently 
dd :  ap  11 :  ap  Erys  Uwyd 

b.  A  list  of  names  containing  among  others  :  ^euan  ap  gr.  theo  /  dd 
ap  gr,  g03  .  /  %  ho:  Jin  grothor  /  Brydydd  glyn  dulais  /  hOllyn  grothor/ 
Lang  llewys  /  Rychert  ap  Eeys  /  Keys  g03  y  vraed  [sic']/  dd.  Mar- 
clianvk  /   llycv  g05  verch  Hn  ap  howell  &c.  &c. 

299  3Iar:  Gwilym   Vychan  .-  Am  dialedd  ryveddaf  h 

Ar  bobl  gynt  or  bibl  a  gaf 

kyntaf  am  vwyta  r  aval 

yr  aeth  y  byt  wrth  y  bal     .... 

vyth  ni  wyl  dy  vath  yn  wr  Ho:  Swderal 

*  This  poem  is  apparently  complete,  as  it  is  follo'wed  by  a  blauk  space.     The  two 
leaves  foUovriDg'have  been  cut  out. 


POETRY   BY   HOWEL   SWRDWAL,    ETC.  417 

303       Y  byt  oil  i  gyt  lie  gwnn     ....  a 

Ac  i  raclan  gaerawclys 
Y  del  swydd  yr  arglwydd  rys     .... 
Gwell  arglwydd  kymro  ym  bro  om  bryt  ,  . 

No  sais  ym  kyvarch  saesnec  lievyt     .... 
Ar  neb  nis  karo  ni  bo  ny  byt  Ho:  Siirdeval 

307       Ynghemais  y  mae  gleisiat  ....  liywel     ....  b 

Ai  glot  val  yr  ot  ar  wynt 
wyr  roppert  hyt  ar  eppynt     .... 
^  nanhyf'er  1  ttiren 

Yr  a  bardd  yn  llwrw  i  benn     .... 
^  gael  oesoedd  y  gleisiait  „  „ 

310       Am  wilym  [vychan]  doeth  ym  Gylaw     ....  .        e 

Ni  ddichawn  me6n  heddychav 
na  bo  doeth  y  neb  a  dav 
Os  pOyll  kaun6yll  rac  kynnen 
gorav  kannOyll  yG  pwyll  penn 
Darllain  manu  bychan'  yn  ber 
dull  bywel  dyall  llawer  .... 
dwyn  oed  hir  a  daOn  ytad  Hywel  hae  JLwyd 

315       Kerdda  was  kar  ddewisswyrdd     ....  d 

rragor  rac  ^vor  a  gaf  Dauith  ap  Gicilim 

Dd:  ho:  cae  ll6yd* 

318  Bvarth  Beirdd  .•  Edympeilli  edymhGyllat  e 

y  veirdd  brython  prydest  ofer 
ymryors.sev  ymryorsedd     .... 
Ey  brynom  ni  an  Hoc  ath  dy  di  vab  mair    See  MS.  2  supra 

321       Eryr  y  saGdGyr  ar  sidan  ar  aur  f 

wyr  i  roser  vychaii  ....  sion     .... 
kryfter  i  vanner  a  vynnai 
Sefyll  ar  draGs  afon  ,venai     .... 
Yr  wybr  ar  aGyr  ar  beryon  Daiiid  Epynt 

326       Dyenjvi  ddwyf  dyannerch  dy  ofyn     ...  g 

o  dalra  arvaeth  yd  ail  morvydd  Dyfnwal 

330       Y  dduw  diolchaf  y  ddewi  a  mair  h 

a  mwrog  am  henrri 
Ai  parai  tegai  a  chlydai  gyd  a  chlydwen  Anon. 

333       Y  sant  a  las  hwnt  ai  lin  i 

Ar  warr  brynn  wyr  ir  brenin     .... 
kynnoc  a  vo  n  y  kaniiawl 
Ai  arf  o  daw  rvof  a  diawl  Epynt 

337  Blank.    Pages  388-51  are  written  upside  down  in  tlie  US.,  thus  reversing 
their  order. 

351       Edwart  ap  edwart  gwart  gwyr     ....  k 

gayr  selem  byd  bethlem  veith  Johlo  goi 

346       Y  dann  ewyn  ewynnlann  wenlas     ....  I 

Nawdd  duw  a  mair  vn  dydd  mwy  Gr:  gryg 

342       gwr  y  sar  y  groes  irwayd     ....  m 

y  gwenwyn  oil  a  gwna  n  jach       Rys  hrydydd  o  dir  jarll 

*  This  name  is  written  intbe  samc!  hand  as   the  rest  of  page  31V  and  under  the 
name  cf  D.  ap  Gwilim. 


418  FENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   54.. 

352       N[i]clas  o  vrddas  ai  ach  a 

Tsnelh  wynn  oes  enw  lanach     .... 
^essv  kadw  gawr  is  koet  gwent  h,  Surdeval 

356       .  .  .  .  ap  dd  llwyd  o  vlaenev  gwent  b 

b.  Proverbs :  hardd  pob  newydd  diddestl  pob  hen  ;  iieyadd  pob 
diddos  ....  daOn  derwydd  yn  y  olwc ;  nid  bonedd  heb  dad  .  .  .  nid 
ymgel6ch  heb  vodryb  ....  nid  har6ch  heb  Glefyddev  .  .  nid  kyn- 
hesrOydd  heb  Grys  /  nid  klOdOr  heb  pais  .  .  .  nid  Toethiueb  heb  len. 

The  pageswhichfollow,  except  393-5  ;  420-1  ;  424-31,  are  written  in  "  Bardic  " 
characters  ■which  are  widely  different  from  Koman  characters.  This  specimen  ia 
unique  as  far  as  Welsh  MSS.  have  been  examined  for  this  Commission.  Some 
of  the  contents  make  it  clear  why  the  poet  sought  the  shelter  of  a  little  known 
Eciipt. 

359       II  y  hescyrn  cyrinon     ....  c 

a  fob  costoc  j'sceler 
yn  cawl  ys  calwyn  y  nant  ay  cant  yr  cwn 

365       Sian[c]yn  wyf  ab  llwelyn     ....  d 

roet  cwilim  y  cist       er  mwyn  iesv  crist 
siacncyn*  [sic]  bier  cist     .... 
ar  cist  yt  bochan       mwr  vw  y  boche  y  nant 

370       Y  rwy  cyleii-iach  anllat     heb  ddim  or  tillat  e 

a  yn  fawr  fy  siarat       fel  ry  ar  sierwm     .... 
rys  ab  llywelyn  ab  cwilim     .... 
bit  y  rys  heddv       bm  [sic']  cant  eisyddyn  ,, 

375  llys  nedd  cyfan[e]dd  cof  enyt     ....  f 
J  cweler  yn  calvv  yr  oUyt     .... 

a  canwyf  wrdd  y  canon  „ 

376  wrdd  y  canon  lion  y  llanwaf  o  aw  en  &c.  „        g 

377  tomas  twr  tomas  ddieiddil  A 
fab  y  siancyn  twrberfil 

berchen  Ilyfyr  sifll     .... 

y  elhvcn*  meirch  y  rytec  „ 

382       Rys  ab  sion  ab  rys  |  fab  siacnyn*  ab  rys     ....  i 

cwan  fydd  morcanwc  j  hyt  yn  llautvtwc 
a  chylch  llancatwc  |  hyt  ar  tir  y  coetv     .... 
a  chaatell  nedd  yn  falchach  |  ac  aber  afan  fach  .  .  . 
ac  ar  y  Haw  ase  |  cwnact  ol  y  fysedd  „ 

387       neitir  vrddic  |  vw  neitir  foriddic     ....  k 

[a]ch  y  maester  watcin  |    .  .  .  .  yn  ydd  a  tan  nant 

393       Nos  diiy  yw  ynys  dawy  / 

John^  hael  awnai  r  nos  yn  hwy     .... 
Gwlad  wyr  hi  a  wy[r]  hiraeth     .... 
Nit  vnaf  wedy  eiuioes 
yw  enaid  rann  ond  a  roes 
O  bydd  nef  i  gyvefin 
ni  bydd  duw  heb  ddiod  win 
Nit  ai  r  vn  enaid  ar  wall 
a  bod  aiir  mewn  byd  arall 
val  i  gwnai  a  gwestaion 
gwnaed  y  saint  ac  enaid  jfohn.  Anon 


»  This  scribe  ■n-riteB  cti  for  nc  fairly  regularly.     Read  ellwnc,  siancyn,  &c. 


POETRV   IN   BARDIC   CHARACTERS,  419 

396       ef  a  roes  yr  abat  |  ym  wn  o  scarlat  a 

ac  am  twrvvsyodd  o  ddillat  |  .  .  .  .  yr  abat  -wiliam  .     .     . 

tv  a  llys  y  twrbil  |  ar  cefen  y  tv  crecwil     .     .     .  • 

ircli  y  bytwar  cwerdd  |  a  my  cael  ercit  Nant 

4  erest  yw  yt  ail  melvvas  j  can  y  maester  tomas     ....    6 

bercben  cylaif  cwnyas  |  ta  vvv  cenyf  „ 

412       en  *  ym  *  *  y  forwyn  llwn  [?]....  c 

ar  cwrner  cenlas  |  Uv  r  maester  tomas     .... 

cwrner    boll   forcanwc  |  vw.  cwrnei'  llantvdwc     .... 

a  cbwrnei-  cwenllywc  |  byt  yn  caer  llion     .... 

ar  cwrnernt  caet  j  myn  tvw  a  obeli  „ 

418       vvvch  no  morsatwis  ]  wyr  ys  ab  y  y  siaucyn     ,     .     .     .      d 

y  benbyres  aryan  |  a  rif  bob  y  seren  „ 

420-1  yr  vn  ai  glaim  ar  wynedd     ....  e 

424-5  vn  dewis  wyd  myn  duw  eion  / 

ac  o  enwav  dec  ynys 

vcb  rann  yw  acluiv  rys 

siancyn  oedd  yu  govyn  gwia     .... 

ynglyn  nedd  mae  wynedd  win     .... 

ac  ni  wnel  duw  ith  elyn     .... 

arnad  gael  diwrnod  gwyn  y  gultyn  kyrioc 

425       Rys  wyr  i  rys  wewyr  onn  a  ffawydd     ....  g 

Kys  ap  sion  .  .  .  Hew  rys  ap  siunkyn    .... 
sy  onwaew  prafE  ion  ap  Eys  bedyn  sioch 

428       y  gwr  a  gynail  gwerin     ....  h 

Davydd  Uawer  dioval     .... 
yr  grym  anillodd  ar  groes  y  guttyn  hyrioc 

422-3     byle  y  ceir  tor  vn  essyllt  ]  o  cyref  cwyddel  cwyllt  ...        i 
cy  cocbet  ar  siron  |  y  cnlch  [i.e.  ynghylcb]  y  seren 

431  be  tynsiooh  teir  ocb     ....  \Dauyd  Nant  a.  k.  k 
wrdd  y  tair  atain  bi  aedd  y  hetec*    ^John  ap  Rees  ay  hant 

432  *  *  bwidd  ytiw  byrytydd  ]  heb  ddillat  nwydd     ...         / 
syr  tafydd  fychan  ....  ail  y  toctor  leison     .... 

yn  ystrat  fellete  |  y  cynyxo  mvwn  elltydd  .  Nant 

436       byle  cirbitoloch  |  cwr  yr  aneir  coch     ....  m 

tyros  y  tarw  cwallt  rvdd  |  a  wna  tir  yn  cyllre  „ 

440       mi  af  at  y  cwrnerj  |  am  arclwydd  amuer     ....  n 

cy  amlet  ar  cwlidd  |  yrswrer  tillat  fidd 

Sf  *  w  i  cwny  blv  *  *  „ 

444       efecir  cwelet  |  y  fantell  am  farcret     ....  o 

a  liiw  cwaet  caran  (  ar  y  fantell  ere  „ 

448-46  §mae  cwin  mvwn  bibc  |  o  fvwn  yr  selere       ...  p 

bwnw  vw  n  Uywydd  [  a  cenewcli  yn  llawen  „ 

448       ^euan  vyclian  ap  Jeuan  vwya  [  gwell  yw  genvyf  gary  q 

gwilliud  I  goris  deil  no  gwr  o  stad  in  margin 


*  In  Bardic  characters.  f  In  Roman  characters.  J  Cf.  p.  412. 

§  At  least  one  folio  is  torn  off  here  and  the  remainder  of  the  poem  is  written 
upside  down  to  the  rest  of  the  MS. 


420  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    54. 

MS.  54  Pi^ft  ii  =  Hengwrt  368*^  Poetry  by  Howel  Cae  ILwtd 
&c.  Paper;  5|  X  4  inches ;  32  pages;  in  a  case  with  MS.  54,  Part  i, 
to  which  it  seenis  to  belong. 

The  Cywyddeu  of  H.  Cae  Llwyd  and  of  the  two  Swrdwals  are  in  the  same  hand 
as  in  MS.  54"part  i. 

1       «  «  :»  «  II  brycheinaOc     ....  a 

Meibi6n  addOynyon  a  dda6 
yh  He  |euan  yn  llyOyaO 
Tyvaeloc  rraid  dy  voli     .... 
'  par  1  enaid  ir  pryn6r  Jeuan  S6rd6ol 

4       Och  ddu6  nad  atebwch  ddim  b 

'er  "j'ch  galw  ble  r  ywch  gwilim     .... 
ap  llywelyn  .lynn  lawn  vwrdd 
ap  hoOel  gyrch  otyel  gwrdd     .... 
noe  i  bv  n  rrannv  r  henwr  Ho  cae  TLwyd 

7       Yu  gwynvyd  i  gyd  vv  gael  y  ddevddyn     ....  c 

Mae  lie  wilym  a  llywelyn 
Y  Haw  ^yvan  a  holl  ovj'n     .... 
Er  i  honn  gael  ar   hOnn  i  gwynn  Howel  cae  TLwyd 

11        Jmpyn  llywelyn  11  v  a  welan  gar  d 

o  gorfE  gOilj'm  vychan     .... 
dde6is  etto  y  deOis  yttOyd  ^euan  IlyOel  Kae  TLwyd 

16       Byrr  y6  r  oed  b6r6  ir  ydOyf    ....  e 

AGn  i  dai  ]euan  ai  dir     .... 
Ond  du6  nef  ac  j'ntav  n  ]ach  Ilyiel  cae  TL6yt 

19       Yr  eginyn  ar  gynnydd  f 

o  einion  Sais  ynn  yssydd     .... 
ieuan  yn  vab  ]aOn  yn  vv     .     .     .     . 
y  lliO  gwelOyf  lle6  gOilym 
Yn  He  i  dad  yn  llwyd  ym  ■  Howel  Kae  TLwyd 

23       Yr  ^inpyu  hyn  brenhinaidd     ....  g 

]f  mae  Hv  n  dyblygv  ith  bias 
i  mae  teml  yma  tomas  .  .  .  liergest     .... 
h6yr  i  bo  gOac  He  u  magOyd 
.1  hir  i  bo  yn  rroi  bwyd  Mo:  Kae  TLwyd 

26       Mae  HaOer  rrom  a  lly6es     ....  h 

barhav  edn   aber  hodni  Ho:  cae  llwyt 

28  Pedigrees  :     Meuric    ap    dd:   g05       J  veibion  yntav  oeddynt 
Rikart  j  Gr:  |  Tomas  |  ^euau  j  dd  ]  merchet  &c. 

29  Map  ^euan  ap  Meuric  oedd  dd:  coedwr  &c. 

30  Mab  Ho:  ap  briavael  oed  jfor:  ap  Ho:  &c. 

h.  (A  recipe  "ffor  the  megrym"  in  later  hand.) 

31  TLyma  ach  gwynnvardd  brycheinioc  .     heilyn  ;ardd  ap  Maren 
vardd  ap  avael  ap  y  drud  &c. 

32  Meibyon  y  briavael  o  verch  -jvor  ortrOch  Ho:  j  Gr;  |  ^vor  | 
M.  .  .  I  Y  meibion  o  arglwyddes  llan  vriavael  yn  fforest  y  ddeiia  | 
Meuric  &c.  &c. 


POETllY   BY   VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  421 

MS.  55  =  Hen.  271.  Poetry  by  Dd:  Ei'ynt,  Ho:  Kae  ILwtd, 
Ehts  Bbychan  <%c.  Paper  ;  5|  x  4  inches ;  232  pages ;  late  xvth 
century  ;   in  a  case. 

This  MS.  is  in  various  hands,  and  pages  2,  23-40,  47,  55-59,  61-64,  69-72, 
77-87,  97-106,  141-55,  160-67,  179-88,  199-201,  229-32  are  in  a  peculiarly 
cramped  hand  which  is  difficult  to  read  on  account  of  its  faulty  orthography,  its 
separation  of  syllables  that  form  words,  and  the  joining  of  syllables  which  belong  to 
different  words.  The  poems  of  Dd.  Epynt  are  all  in  the  same  hand  in  this  MS.  and 
in  MS.  54.  The  poems  of  H.  Kae  Llwyd  are  also  in  one  hand.  Pages  60,  76, 
^29-30,144,168,178,201  are  blank.  "Liber  Johannis  lewes "  (p.  1),  "hwiliam 
konwy  "  and  "  Madoo  ab  owen.meidd ''  (p.  130). 

2  A  fragment,  signed  apparently  "  [J]olo]  " 

3  ||dra6  yn  blinOyd  roi  i  blaid     ....  a 
yO  yn  vis  haf  nef  i  ^ohn                                 Rys  hnjch^a^n 

6       Kyfoethoc  vavchoc  o  vrychan  a  gawn  h 

i  gynnal  yn  riaglan  |  Syr  water  &c 

Yn  iarll  kaf  weittuon  evrllew  kyfoethoc  Kae  ILwyd 

9  J  Ywain  glynn  dyfrdwy 

Byd  dvclrist  bywyd  hydrravl     ....  c 

Y  mysc  Jeirll  i  ymwaisc  ef  .  Gruff ydd  llwyd 

13       Aeth  gwys  i  benn  rrys  lie  rrocisan     ....  d 

vn  a  geissio  yno  gwyssaf  .  kae  llwyd 

17       Mut  yw  r  byt  ymhedwar  bann     ....  e 

Os  marw  huw  oes  mwy  or  haf 
Ni  chan  edn  ucheneidiaf 
Ni  adai  ddyn  "welly  ddydd 
bywel  varw  i  leferydd     .... 
Adar  oedd  a  derw  yddvn 
kolli  dav  kae  llwyt  yw  yn 
hywel  davi  ail  davydd 

Os  marw  vv  eissiav  mawr  vydd     .... 
Try  n  arcs  y  varn(?)  orav  Dauid  Epynt 

J  meistr  6iliam,  ssiambrlen — 
21       Am  deyrn  i  mae  deall     ....  f 

klyOet  y  vab  gael  klod  vOy  .  Rys  brychan 

24  Her  ys  the  proficy  of  brednlon  \^=^ Bridlingtoii] 

Awaete  a  wette  svmmyre  wyth  a  weyndy  barvaste  &c.        g 

25  Myn  yw  oil  mor  mantellwn     ....  h 
son  yteiroes  an  eld  rrydd                                risiert  ttomas  dy 

29       Y  dy  hydyr  or  deheydir    ....  i 

koUeisd  yr  oyst  kyllestr  6yd  .        y  gyto  ab  siankyn  y  glyn 

33       Anhapyss  ym  am  nebasson     ....  k 

arh6ndel  yr  heindalyad  hy6el  kay  ll6yd 

35       y  dial6r mab  vorgan ....  I 

dab6rdr  ev  11  kar  ■  tra  vo        •  ho6el  kay  llyd 

37       Y  dydd  y  by  gwedy  gwin     ....  m 

Tri  y  gydoybi  gad  iesii  meyryg  dd:  ap  hoel  goch 

40  pan  ytoyddwn  |  gwedy  dyvod  &c.  dd''  ab  gio  n 

41  II  ^oRn  ap  rrosser  gler  a  gly6  i  ddaed     ....  o 
ssy  oen  piir  ^essii  John  ap  roesser                    tomas  terllys 

47  kyffesaf  laa  Ivn  avles  val  y  kafEOyv  &c.  Anon,  p 

48  E  ddaw  dydd  y  ddeiyr  a  doeth     ....  q 
trioed  y  garw  tryhacarn                                 Risserd  ap  Rys 


422- 


PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   55. 


50  llynia   wecldi   o  vair   aehvir    Salue   Regina   S^c. : — ^Hanpych 
gwell  veir  vrenhines  y  drvgaredd  yn  bywyd  an  gobeith  an  digi'it'wch      ■ 
&c.  &c.     pro  anhnB,  Rissierd  ap  Rys. 

51  llyma  y  na6  geir  hyngor : — kyntaf  y6  dyro  ym  tlcdyon  i  vn 
geinioc  yn  dy  vy6yd  a  hynny  a  reingk  vymodd  yn  v6y  no  fFei  rroddy 
ymynyddoedd  yn  aur  ac  yn  aryann  Oedy  beyd  var6  &c.  &c. 

55       yr  biein  ar  y  heyrdr     ....  a 

dy  loneid  yly6enydd  Rys  dyfn6al 

68  Oys  vn  droslhen  dra**y     ....  h 
bOissyssd  dyn  eg  sst6ei                                                    Anon. 

69  (My  nis  wn  nabisswn  dn  esy  ond  drwg  &c.  "thomas  meney')   c 

61       Y  ferch  o  nef  frycbanOayd     ,     .     ,     ,      ■  d 

kyda  dyO  cadO  y  deonn  hy6el  rreinalU 

65       y  maisiant  maOr  i  i-esso     ....  e 

Os  mab  rrys  om  hap  ai  rrydd  Daidd  Epynt 

69  J  wallder  havart :   Ry  vynvch  lie  rliov  vu  vnt    ....       f 
On  t  aros  \n  ovterOen  ;are  devl6vn 

72  A  fragment :  gOen  dios  mi  atb  gerais  &c.  Anon,  g 

73  llwyn  ai  viic  yn  llanw  y  vronn     ....  h 
llywelyn  dychryn  dy  iaith     .... 

dy  air  sy  bell  dros  y  byt  Rys  degannwy 

77  J  mesdr  risiart  herbart 

May  vn  a  dal  mOy  no  dey     .     .     ,     ,  i 

bor  fEiiO  am  war  ber  fFro  mon  Jeyan  rrayadr 

80       vn  posst  prif  Oeddi  rchiarch  berffeith  |  tr6y  h 

deilyngdaOd  y  nos  gyntaf  |  y  gan  eryll  &e        left  unfinished 

82       by  ry  61ad  a  b;irei  61edd     ....  I 

yn  troi  aur  yn  tri  eryr  brechfa 

84       T  bar  gOiney  brig  6nyas     ....  m 

Ay  chOys  a  el  y  ch6]oii  Robin  ddy 

87  Fragments. 

88  Ryw  uiklas  liir  yn  kloi  sydd     ....  n 
Euill  gair  ar  ^aOn  lloegr  wenn                      Dauidd  Epynt 

92       y  marcboc  o  ry6iogaetli     ....  o  • 

Syr  Tomas  erioet  damav     .... 
yi-  ail  penn  i  loi  belp  wyt  David  Epynt 

97       ][m]pvn  dey  siankvn  dros  Oyr  morgan6g     ....  p 

ssou  y  kaGn  henOog  siankyn  bynod  Ryss  brychan 

100  .(4  fragment :  ybrny  gwrawl  brie  eyraid  &c.  q 

101  Torch  hon**  tr6y  y6ch  6inssor  r 
wrth  Or  m6yn  or  merthyr  mor 
y  ssion  a  nest  syn  y  nef 

104       yr  vn  Hi  an  vn  llvvog     .... 
Ag  eilweith  ym6ac  el  yd 

106       .  .  .  .  y  gOyn  pibydd     .... 

y  kanyad  ne6ydd  Ar  y  krras  gyOeir  unfinished 

10?       Yr  vrddol  o  hudolyaetb     ....  i 

yrrv  hwn  ar  y  heneint  Rys  dyfnallt 

111       Armes  a  wnaeth  talies.sin     .... 

Duw  a  rrobert  ar  hebawc  walliyn  vjihan 


Risiert  brys  brydydd 

Syrffylib  emlvn 


FOETRY   BY  VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  42^- 

114-      Mawr  yw  n  ofn  am  wr  nevol     ....  a 

Doet  i  hwnn  dy  dnw  hono  H     Kae  llicyt 

117       O  dduw  pwy  nglann  gwy  a  gai  aiabcdJ  b 

Maestr  lobart  o  hwittnei     .... 
^  lenwi  gwin  ar  lanu  gwy  leivys  y  glynn 

122   ■    Maestr  rossier  hyt  ymerwyn     ....  c 

yr  hydd  yw  iat  yr  rawc  Jeuan  ap  y  Gulto 

125       l|Duw  ir  mab  o  dir  y  medd  d 

Dyro  gvras  drugaredd*  Ho.  Surdeval 

b,  Marvmad  Dauydd  ap  Morgan 

Achwrddeis  wyleis  pwy  sydd  heb  wylo     ....  e 

pa  wan  pa  varn  pa  davarn  nit  wyl  (1.  74)|| 

181       ffryssdyo  ir  Oyf  dr6y  r  fEoresst  rydd     ....  / 

na  vii  r  vn  nef  ir  enaid  Rijs  brychan 

134       Ami  wylaw  am  lywelyn  [ab  Jeuau]     ....  g 

yn  vyw  rrawc  a  nef  ir  rrain  Ho:  Kae  JLwyd 

136       E  vv  r  tad  in  gwlad  yn  glo  ac  allwedd     ....  h 

n  tref  ai  arfav  bid  ef  ar  vab  i  dad  „  „ 

140  Reit  yw  gadel  rOyt  goydyp  &c.  i 
b.       ssisli  y6r  verch  anerchaf  &c.  (also  p.  172)                                  A 

141  brycbeiniog  bro  wych  an6yl     ....  I 
A  chynydd  ar  vrycheinioc                                    ssion  y  kent 

1^       pa  Or  ormodd  or  parment     ....  m 

wrth  wyn  gOent  yn  erth  yngyr  lerorth  vynglioyd 

148  Pwy  bynac  a  vyno  meddyginiayth  rog  y  g0ay6  micran  keisied 
gribe  y  ssanffred  ar  Germod  &c. 

149  Y  dylyedoc  diledacli  n 
O  hil  ac  Oreidd  hy6el  grach     .... 

hyn   vy  cli  nod  yn  dy  dir  hyCel  dafi 

151       Y  g6r  o  veint  goreyvodd     ,     .     .    '.  o 

tomas  ych  teyrnas  ych  tal 
OS  enkyd  o  ry6  sianliin 
amhada6c  6ych  may  had  gOin     , 
A  beir  y  goyd  dd6yn  brig  aur  (l.  38) i| 

153  graddbarOn  oya  g6reidd  byraeh     ....  p 
kayl  yt6yoys  klotayar                                                 Rys  bryan 

Dan  gywydd  i  sion  ap  roesser  o  lanvrynach 

154  Oys  aur  s6np  [=  swmp]  vecis  or  ser     ....  q 
teir  oes  hydd  L6nt  dyro  sio[n]                            yfjein  ieithon 

156       yscwier  gwisc  aerwy  gwyn     ....  r 

Ath.  tlian  iat  ath  ne6idiai  Epynt 

160       ampych  gOell  vrenhines  y  drycaredd  &c.  s 

161-62     A  fragment  on  lucky  and  unlucky  days. 

163       klyweis  doe  ym  klysdeey     ....  t 

na  heer  mwy  yn  hir  mon  ,   Jolo  goch 

165       vnO  gadarn  yn  geidOad     ....  u 

mastyr  Giiiam  meistyr  ar  alyOss     .... 
pen  yr  holl  vyd  pen  airll  (sic)  vych  Robin  dd\ii] 

*  The  last  two  lines — the  rest  ot  the  poem  is  wanting. 


424  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    55. 

167  pOy  bynac  a  vyno  meddyginiayth  rag6ay6  iddOng  keisio 
kath  a  thori  y  fl'en  ay  tlirayd  ay  hoU  didrOddi  |  a  thrOy  holl 
fcervedd  ay  dodi  6rtlio  ac  ef  a  fydd  iach  . 

169       By  P^aw  i  vn  dyn  a.baner  or  blaen  a 

heb  law  Joii  ap  Rosei*     .... 
]  vyny  aatur  voi  Enw  yntav  Wiliam  Egwad 

173       Pand  sir  liuw  yw  n  dilw  an  dewin     ....  b 

■fessu  rrwydd  yna  yw  sir  hiiw  ddownvs      Rys  dygannwy 

176   Wiliam  herbart  o  rac  Ian 

yr  awdvr  bael  ar  dir  hwnt     ....  c 

Brav  iawn  yn  vyth  brenhinn  vo  „  „ 

179       ssiir  tomas  g^7anas  yn  g6yr  d 

Vychan,  taryau  antyr6yr     .... 
Am  y  neidir  y  may  n  edrych  hyCel  dafi 

182       An  ami  y  chGarp  barp  bar6ii     ....  C 

EydOch  uac  ymynwch  tnOy 
Ony  rydeOch  gynt  ar  ad6y  9'''yffyV  '^^  lloyn  I6yd 

185       gwnayd  6r  or  twr  ar  teir  #ith     ....  f 

ssion  sy  ben  sseitli  siens  byd  Rys  bycJian 

188       Y  gwr  dyfyad  gradifayl  &c.   (a  fragment)  g 

b.       lias  Hew  ffraO  vn  braw  brat  Addas  orchwyl     ....       h 
penn  llywelyn  dec  dygyn  o  vraw  _ 

ir  byt:  bot  pawl  haearn  drwyddaw  .... 
Gwennwlat  uef  poet  addef  iddaw  Ihjwarch  offeiriat 

196       Mae  dyn  a  wise  am  dani     ....  i 

O  cheyff  bvn  i  llvn  ai  Uiw  Uowdden 

199  An  old  Vocabulary  !  henw  dyw  yw  baref  henw  yw 
perging  |  pergin  yw  arglwydd  |  gwanar  yw  arglwydd  |  gwanas  yw 
arglwyddes  |  ffymer  y w  ,simue,  |  .Uvmeirch  yw  oesstrys  |  porffor  yw 
ffelved  I  ginayrw  yw  pwrffll  |  Ilogawd  yw  neyadd  |  myng6og  yw 
gryg  I  Uerw  yw  arafeiddrwydd  |  menestr  yw  tastywr  gwin  |  Awl 
yw  gweddi  |  Alwer,  yw  baner  )  eteth  yw  llwynogess  |  llewyn  yw 
llwynoc  I  ber  yw  barkyd  |  abarv  ew  bydredd  |  preidd  yw  gyr  o 
warthec  |  elwchywymbil  |  anawyw  kerddor  ]  osbywdeith[r]  |  osbyd 
[y]w  dieithreid  |  tydwedd  yw  dayar  |  gwiba  yw  llamystan  |  bitolwss 
yw  tarw  j  tesgyll  yw  tywyll  |  ffaclawr  yw  ryfelwr  |  ifosawdr  yw 
dyrno[t]  kleddyf  ney  isarn  |  ffrab  y[w]  brath  ffou  ney  sayth  | 
ffrowyll  yw  vsgwrs  |  fFacwl  yw  gwynt  |  ffelaic  yw  arglwydd  |  garthan 
yw  Kyfel  |  keimiad  yw  gwgwas  dewr  (  ysswein  yw  ysgwier  |  makwy 
yw  marchoc  |  baran  yw  nerth  |  maranedd  yto  gwyr  llys  |  hyed  yw 
fcytheyeid  |  gorbewc  yw  balchder  |  dylanw  yw  toney  mor  ney  ddyf  wr  | 
ays  yw  taryan  |  asgrwydr  yw  Layl  oddyar  daryan  |  granay  vw 
ymraney  llygeid  |  peryfel  yw  newyn  |  pellenigion  yw  dieithreid 
allwladydd  |  penffestyu  y  w  saled  ||  pedeir  gradd  llys  arglwydd  ysydd 
— kyntedd  ac  radd  a  meink  a  lleithig — kyntedd  yr  .  .  .  iymyn,  y  radd 
yr  y scwiereid,  y  feink  yr  lAagwyeid'(marchogyon),  lleithig  yr  teyrnedd|| 
kallawr  yw  yvydden  |  midlan  y w  kayth  ymladd  ballistys  |  llygyrn  yw 
goleykwr[=kwyr]  |  duryuey  ywp[e]lleney  }  yrdangywofn  j  ellyllen 
yw  gafar  |  diaren-yw  ffol  \  bloddyo  yw  ycheneidio  |  brythwch  yw 
yeheneidio  |  allwest  yw  porfa  |  arraes  yw  darocan  ]  merwerydd  yw 
ssiarad  1 


WELSH   GRAMMARS,   ETC.  425 

202       Ymwannwyr  a  dyri-  dan  dariann  a 

lewys  ai  luoedd  ymhob  mann     .... 
Yno  i  bo  honno  heb  wahaniat  Ejiynt 

.207       Am  y  fpydd  yn  dydd  o  lynn  diol  hwnt     ....  b 

liopkyn  dec  pwy  ai  kai  n  dol     .... 
Nev  ddwyn  iddewonn  ar  fFonn  if  ffydd         Dauid  Epyiit 

212  Marwnad  Morgan  {?  o  Verthyr)  ai  wraig 

Trablyddus  i  try  blwyddyn     ....  c 

hyii  vo  r  egiu  o  vorgant  Epynt 

21G       Rissiart  hir  ar  assiir  tec*     ....  d 

vyth  onit  af  ith  wn  di  „ 

"220  Mar:   TV.  herbart :  Mae  ofn  at  rym  vynet  draw    ...  e 

Barbtiv  hedn  aber  hodni  David  Epynt 

224       Gardd  a  dyf  o  gerdd  davawt  / 

Genyf  i  wyr  i  gwnaf  wawt     .... 
Pedwai-  hap  kwympet  i  rraia  Tew 

229       Mi  af  yr  haf  y  ben  rrys  g 

Her  an  bob-Uu  or  ynya  &c. — the  e7id  on  p.  232  is  scarcely  legible. 


MS.  56  =  Hen.  MS.  259.  Three  fragments  of  Welsh  (rRAsniAE, 
■a.  Treatise  on  Milling,  Drawin<3s  of  Tools,  Poetry,  and  a 
Poetical  Dialogue,     Paper;  6  x4J  inches;  180  pages  ;  in  a  case. 

There  are  at  least  four  distinct  hands:  a,  pages  1-29,  42-47,  ?  55-60; 
b,  pp.  31-41  ;  c,  pp.  61-128  ;  and  d,  pp.  129-80.  There  are  other  hands  besides. 
.a  and  6  seem  to  belong  to  about  1500 ;  c  to  1543 ;  and  d  to  about  1600. 

Pages  54  and  90  are  blank  except  for  the  inscription  "  Damyd  ap  thomas  smyth 
of  meiifod  "  on  the  latter. 

1  A  fragment  of  a  Welsh  Grammar  f  treating  of  kysylldiad 
(p.  2),  dipdon  (p.  5),  ymadrawd]  perfFaith  (p.  9),  Beryf  (p.  14), 
rakhenw  (p.  17),  ymadroddien  (p.  20),  mydyr  nev  brydiad  (21),  Teir 
ifigur  ymadrawdd  (p.  22). 

25       Hwyl  gymen  yw  margen  mawl     ....  h 

y  mae  dyn  vwyn  i  iiwyneb     .... 
lliw  manwawn  gar  Haw  mynydd     .     .     ,      . 
krefft  gadarn  ohaern  hir  .  Anon 

28  Pedair  hanip  arvgain  y  sydd  ardeniodd  dyfnwal  moel  mvd  yu 
yvort  gron  i  pwy  bynag  a  vyno  goruhaviayth  ....  darllain 
kymrayg  ....  ends  :  a  churerio  telyn. 

30  surte  for  dd  ap  ryse  robart  ap  houel  ap  tomas  richard  ap 
I'yse  &c XX vi 

surte  for  William  ap  ryse  dd  g05  &c. 

31  A  Welsh  Grammar^  :  dwy  ran  ymadrodd  ysydd  henw  a  berf 
lienw  yw  pob  peth  ar  a  aller  i  weled  nev  i  glwcd  nev  i  deimlo  nev 
a  ddoto  henw  ar  beth  &c.  &c.  It  ends  in  the  middle  of  a  phrase 
with  examples  of  adverbs. 

42  Tair  kalflng  y  sy  o  gerdd  davawt  nyt  amgen  klerwriayth 
tevluwryaetli  affrydyddiayth  &c.     As  examples  of  metres  Englynion 

*  It  is  diiEoult  to  decide  whether  this  Cywydd  is  merely  the  continuation  of  the 
previous  one,  or  a  separate  poem  to  the  children  of  Morgan. 

t  The  text  of  this  agrees  in  substance  with  that  in  the  Red  Book  of  Heryest 
(cols.  1119-1126),  but  the  arrangement  is  different. 

E     98430.  T 


426  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPT  66, 

are  given  by  jer'  f  ychan  o  aillechwedd,  bleddyn  llwyd  o  degyngl,  dd. 
du,  gw ilim  rryfel,  It  voylrawn.  Ends  :  englyn  vnawdyl  krwka  a  fydd 
pau  vo  yddav  benill  "vyrion  yn  gyntaf  ar  penill  hir  ynddiwaethaf.* 

48       Yn  dinasglas  i  may  glyn  &c.  a 

b.  liyn  y w  kost  ssaith  o  veichie  gruS.  ap  dd.  ap  Mred. — vs.  vijrf, 

c.  Genealogy  of  Joban  ap  Madoc  ap  harri  &c.  o  geidioc  &c. 
49''  and  49'  are  so  stained  by  gall  as  to  be  hardly  legible. 

50  gwared  mae  dyngen  am  y  diango  &c.  & 

b.  gwladvs  vj  vleddyn  ap  jthel  &c. 

c.  ystyried  popyl  cerd  bawb  aceryn  iSfc.  c 

51  anerch  yr  vn  ferch  rrieinfodd  &c.  d 

52  Yr  ywen  i  orevwas  e 
gayr  mvr  ysdrad  fflur  ai  fflass 

da  duw  ■wrthyd  gwynfyd  gwydd 

dy  dyfv  yn  dy  Aaxxydd     ,     ,     ,     , 

diwartho  duw  dy  wrthiav     .  gi'uff  gi"yo 

bb       O  gwnevthvm  ir  gwraig  neithwyr     ....  f 

golyd  dd.  ap  gwilim 
gwydd  y  fedd  fy  gvddfa  ym     .... 
syth  i  gwallt  i  sevthv  gwyr     .... 
ir  ywen  doyd  wen  ir  dydd 
yno  y  dof  ine  dafydd  "  dd:  ap  jedmivnt 

57      *  weles  neb  a  welaf    ....  g 

y  gaer  egl\T  ar  gereiglofft 
■    .  ar;  gareg  rrvdd  ar  gwr  groffi;    .     .     .     . 

h.ono  yw  krvgiaith  gwaith  ;gwiw 

ar  gwr  llwyd  kadyr  baladr  ddellt 

yw  syr  howel  magnel  mellt     .     .     . 

y  ffrvvyn  ym  .hen  brenin  firaingk  .  Anon 


•Paet  II.     1543. 


61  Seithheth  kuddiedic  sy  ar  velin^ :     Erewi  y  kafn  bycban  a 
llosci  y  paladr  &e. 

b.  Saith  Cyfeiliorn  melin  :     Eannv  Erwng  pwys  a  goddaith  &c. 

62  (All  manner  of  men  tow  {sic)  .  Pi'overbs  &c.)J 

63  Ti'wjn  pout  pedwar.sy  o,honvn  cud  ni  all  bod  onit  dav  &c. 

b.  (Chorls  of  WyroU  as  he  was  wonte  &c.) 

c.  Trwm  korn  tri  dav  ne  vn  all  vod  ariheini  a  vydd  &c. 

05  ym  ha  le  howsa  gadel  trwm  pent  &e. 

66  OS  malu  byddi  di  a  dyvod  dwr  yii  ddisymwth  ne  IIvo  yr  avoa 
Eraid  yw  gistwng  peth  ne  hi  val  yn-rry  vras  . 

*  Thetext  of  pages  31-47  agrees  fairiy  closely  with  that  in  cols.  1121-1128  of  the 
lied  Booh  of  Hergest. 

t  Pages  61-90  contain  a  kind  of  Treatise  on  Milling,  and  on  the  duties  and  ethics 
of  the  Miller. 

J  The  pnssages  iu  EDglish  arein  a  diffepeotiband  on  blanks  leftbetween  those  in 
Welsh. 


A  TREATISE   ON   M'['LLING.  427 

67.  Ihinmngs  of  carpenter's  tools,  agricultural  implements, 
measures  (hob,  pec,),  Ifiol,  basced,  kist,  &c. 

72  pob  gwledd  pod  {sic)  annedd  pob  aW^r  Ac.  a 

b.  di  chvvare  di  wilie  di  olud  &c.  b 

c.  pe  gwypyd  vaiiwylyd  vy  nolur  &c.  c 

73  lie  hyfordi  osgord)  lie  r  hoffais  vyned,  &c.  d 

b.  rwy  yn  wafiach  bella}  bob  awr  noi  gilidd  &c.  e 

c.  ir  kost  ir  mowrgost  ir  mael  &c.  f 

74  J  mae  ir  melinidi  o  gyfloc  bedair  floryng  a  G\visc  ai  talu  ar  iii] 
tal  vn  bob  tymor  jn  gymhedrol  a  bwyd  a  diod  a  gwely  yn  y  velin  a 
chynnvd  ne  vorthan  a  chanliwylle  a  gwer  i  iro  y  veliu  a  gwnev- 
tliur  pob  gwaith  saer  a  go  gweithwr  a  thowr  &c, 

75  tiyn  sy  raid  ir  melinid-j  i  ochlud  .  .  .  Dy wedud  kelwydj 
&e.  &c.  ends  :  Ewymo  y  sache  |  i  kodi  ar  y  meirch  a  chael  o  baub  i 
mesur  kanis  y  gamp  decka  ar  ddyn  yw  kywirdeb. 

91  Dystur  tangneved]  paub  am  geilw  *  »  *  *  #  |  yr  hyn  sy  yn 
Eubucho  paub  gariad  perfaith  na  chwynycb  ddar  byd  yn  vn  mod] 
kanis  moy  no  cavoraid*  a  bair  aflOnyd]  |  kar  dy  gymydoc  vid  ti  dy 
hvn  a  diolch  i  deo  o  glevyt  yn  gystal  ac  o  ]ecliyd  ac  edrych  ar  y 
tlaud  a  cliymer  resyndeb  a  deo  a  vwhaa  dy  veddiant. 

92 a  chalon  lawen   byd]    digri   yngrist     Jn   anaj    dim 

mogel  vn  peth — na  ddyro  gredinieth  i  bob  Ghwedylnewydd — na  clired 
ddym  sy  angrededun  &c.  &c. 

:&.  Cop^  of  a  deed  dated  the  35th  year  of  Henry  viii.  [1543], 
in.wMch  the  Vicar  of  Denbigh  directs  John  ap  dd.  to  permit 
community  of  pasture  in  the  viilagfe -of  Aliagton  to  John  Aimer  of 
Aimer. 

93       e  mae  pynyd  mawE-a  galar  |  eisie  kafcL  dwr  ir  ddyverar  .  .  g 
vel  i  gallo  sych  i  thalken  |  roddi  clap  a  lladde  chwannen 

-94  GeMcaZogrjcaZ  ^aSZe  beginning  wiUi  Edwyn.  -  _      .    _   . 

96  swydd*:!;  sy  .  jv&A.  kair  o  byd]  ynhir  kred  &c.  /* 
b.       hir.hir.i  trigaist  hwy  yw  dwj'awr  o  nos  &o.  dd:  ap  Edm:  i 

97  Nid  rryd]  ym  ddavon  vn  tro  &G.  ;.                         _  k 
b.       Ni  chair  kymar  i  chwi  o  lendid     ....  I 

^  ynnill  dawn  ni  all  dwl 

veiddio  dywedud  i  veddwl     .... 

glendid  sieb  yw  dywyneb  di  . 

98  Geneological -table  beginning  with  Robert  licit 

'99       dvw  an  duco  yn  diweth  |  i  wlad  tragwytli  ar  wleth  m.. 

d\iw  draw  guwa  yn  Uawen  |  gida  mair  i  gyd  amen 

[probably  in  the  autograph  of]  Edwarde  longforde 

100  duw  a  digon  wiwdon  wedd,  heb  dduw  gwyn  heb  ddigouedd  .  rt 

101  Thia  page  contains  the  second  half  of  the  lines  Of  the  deed  beginning  ou 
page  92. 

102'  Sciant  presentes  et  futuri  quod  nos  thomas  ap  jfollyn  goch  de 
alynton  in  comet'  de  denbight  et  fohawem  ap  dd.f 


*  Written  oxer  '.•  digon,"  which  is  '-'crossed  out." 
t  No  more  was  written. 


X  2 


'428  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    56. 

103  The  Rules  of  Welsh  Metres.  The  text  is  practically  the  same 
as  that  iu  cols.  1127-1133  of  the  Red  Book  of  Her g est. 

129  A  DRAMATIC  DIALOGUE — Prologue: 

II  yn  gwrtais  ych  arfere  a 

a  distaw  ych  tafode     .... 

fel  y  klowoch  yn  gwsnevthv 

yn  ol  hyny  mae  i  eh*  #  #  *  #  * 

Dramatis  personae  or  datganwyr 

13C  (1)  yr  yffeiriad;  (2)  Y  Gwr  kadarn  ;  (Z)  ij  wraig ;  (4)  y  Gwas ;  (5)  y 
yymdoyen  ;  (6)   ar  osibes. 

yr  yffeiriad  yn  doedyd  wrth  was  y  gwr  kadarn. 

Pwy  ydiwr  gwr  draw  gwych  6 

maer  merched  arno  yn  edrycli 

The  Gwr  kadarn  and  the  Priest,  are  introduced  to  one  another  and  exchange 
pleasantries,  but  gradually  the  priest  denounces  the  world,  its  good  things,  and  the 
rich.     The  Gwr  Kadarn  replies  : 

pwy  sydd  yrowan  mor  fydol  c 

a  chwjchwi  y  gwyr  ysbrydol     .... 

o  dra  chwant  modd  pryd  gwedd 

yn  piriodi  Rhianedd     .... 

o  chwant  perchill  a  gvvydde 

ych  kymdeithas  chwi  sydd  ore 

ag  irydych  yn  rhy  drwm 

yn  drvdwerthv  ych  degwm     .... 

chwi  a  ddoedwch  yn  dda  dros  ben 

ag  a  wnewch  ymhell  amgen     .... 

Then  the  Gwr  kadarn  falls  ill,  and  the  Yffeiriad  avenges  himself  heartily  !  The 
Gwr  kadarn  appeals  to  God  and  Christ  for  mercy,  and  the  Priest  finally  prays  for 
his  departing  soul.  As  soon  as  the  Guir  kadarn  is  buried  Ihe  Gmas_  makes  love 
to  the  widow,  marries  her  and  wastes  her  possessions  j  she  repents — the  end  is 
wanting. 


MS.  57  —  Hen.  MSS.  261  and  262.  Poetry  by  David  ap  Gwilim, 
aud  various  other  authors.    Paper ;  5f  x  4  inches  ;   170  pages ;  in  a  case. 

Pages  1-78  form  MS.  261  and  belong  to  the  second  half  of  the  xvlh  century; 
pp.  79-176  form  MS.  262  which  is  in  several  hands  later  than  1500.  This  part  is 
stained  and  difficult  to  read  here  and  there.  Grace  Jones  wrot»  her  name  on  p.  78. 
See  MS.  18  p.  3,  supra,  and  Ked  Book  of  Talgarth. 

1  [Dysgais  ryw  baradwys  gainc]     ....  d 
||Meddei  verchet  y  gwledydd     .... 

Ac  en  kael  kanu  r  gaink  hoii  datiydd  heuyd 

2  Cynghoruynt  wann  brytanyeit     ....  e 
Byw  ydiw  ef  a  bit  wir                                       Jdem  dawjd 

.5       y  uerch  anllat  am   gwadawdd     ....  f 

Do  do  niwrdduw  ado  dim  Dainjd  heuyt 

6       Celennio  yw  kael  annerch     ....  g 

Ar  y  hyt  a  eura  hi  dauyd 

8      Meuanwy  lywy  liwot     ....  h 

Mair  a  ro  drwc  niawr  yr  drych  madawc  benuras 

10  Y  uerch  lygat  riiddell  vein     ....  i 
Nathlawt  hwdev  bunt  ythlaw             i?  goch  ap  meuric  hen. 

11  Gwae  a  gar  gwraic  gwr  arall     ....  k 
Y  Croeu  ar  j  talken  kryoh    (1.  60)  || 


POETEy  BY   GUTTO   AP   ]fANKYN,   ETC. 


429 


15 


19 


22 


24 


27 


Eddull  ay  pecha-wt  y  ddyn     . 
kan  gan  eb  prydydd  dydd  da 

Kynwric  hut  merch  anerchgael     .     .     , 
ymeir  no  bir  brynv  medd 

Caru  o  vewn  korf  vy  eis     .     .     .     . 
Gan  y  gwr  a  gawn  gerydd 

Arglwydd  rys  eryr  gwleddrym     .     .     . 
Duw  ath  -wncl  tlitheu  yn  yach 

Tmae  dolur  ym  dylynn     .... 

Mynediat  vymhennadur 

Y  loygr  flwcli  o  loywgor  flur     .     .     . 

Eys  ....  abat 

a  marw  ydwyf  am  rodyaw 

y  glawstr  ef  ay  eglwys  draw  (1.  64)  || 

Af  a  mawl  a  vo  melys 

Or  tut  yr  Gyf  jz  tat  rys*     .... 

Bob  gwyl  o  bawb  ay  gilydd 

Boest  lew  win  a  rrost  lawer 
Kys  var.r  clot  rryssynwr  cler     .     .     . 
Nudd  ac  ^estus  nedd  gastell     .     .     . 
ytt  einyoes  lyfr  bryttanyeit 

37  Moliant  Howel  Vychan  o  Lyn  Aeron 
Y  mae  gwr  ym  yw  garu  .... 
Efrawc  Iwyth  iuor  y  glj'un 

Mol:  Rrys  ap  Dauyd  o  vwch  aeron 
Seithydd  wyf  odyrasaethaf     .... 
Bwar  ge#*«*#*| 

II  *  *  *  #  #  #  wyssedd 
##*###  mor  hwn  || 

45  Mol:  ffylih  vab  wilym  llwyt  ap  gerallt 
Tlos  vn  anrrec  taliesin     .... 
Gat  y  arall  dyfFryn  gwy  yw  divyu 

Bum  yn  oet  bei  mwynedus 


jfdem  gruf^iU  llwyt 

Ding  nioel 

y  poesnet. 

Quito  ap  Janhyn 


d 


31 


34 


/ 


Gutto  ap  Jankijn 


Jdem  gutto. 


gutto 


40 


44 


48 


A  gwenn  arddrem  lawen  lus 


Gutto 


Jcuan  gethin. 


Dauyd  ap  gwillym 


F 


Y     7  *  *  *  on  tra  veir  genii 

llithrodd  kroes  eurvoes  aruer 
llathrogleu  berw  llytlir  eglur 
llin  meir  gan  vrig  llanw  a  mor 

llun  duw  y  gaerlleon  dir  feuan  bol 

ap  Jeuan  ap  Rys  o  brysc  y  byddeir 
Vcbeneit  wedyn  aflednejs     .     . 
Eithr  morvudd  nym  dyudd  dyn 

Gwnn  weilh  o  gariat  gwen  wyl 

Gordderchwr  garedd  orohwyl     .... 

Syr  Wilyara  .  .  .  o  drahayarn     .... 

Ac  yny  nef  y  gvvnan  oet  Gutto. 

Tydy  vanwlurawt  didaer     ...  q 

Diweddro  keisso  yw  kael  Si/r  thomas 

*  This  poem  is  in  a  different  hand,  but  :Yhetber  it  is  a  continuation  of  the  previous 
poem,  or  a  fresh  one  on  the  same  subject,  it  is  not  easy  to  decide. 

t  The  folio  (pp.  43-^4)  containing  the  last  12  lines  of  this  poem  and  the  beginning 
of  another  poem  is  torn,  and  tlie  greater  half  of  it  is  wanting. 


52 


53 


54 


58 


430  PKNIARTH  MANtrSeRIPT    57.    '  - 

63       Y  newyddlong,  neuaddlawn     ....  la 

verch  rys  bid  vawr  y  chressaw  .     . 

Nyd  aeth  or  (sic)  (amen  dico  vohh  juorf  jfeuan  ap  gr.  gocK) 

66       Sulgwynn  niawl  fal  gwin  a  medd  b 

■fankyn  eginyn  gwnedd  .  .  .  dewrvab  .  .  .  Domas  ap  dd:  ,  .  . 
Ossenn  dyrchj's  yny  dwyn  Am  dy  wddf  (sic) 

68       Gwassvt  eingl  gwisgat  anglaer     ....  c 

Gwilym  ....  Gyrddvab  tomas     .... 
wrth  rodyaw  werth  yr  adar  JL  goch 

72       Orddot  vronn  gorddot  vel  gorvdt  galet  a  vydd  d 

ac  amly6  lloygrwys  rydd  i-ewin  gollet     .... 
diffryt  brython  rac  ar6yddoii 
a  brut  saesson  seis  nym  puchet  /  qwod  Morys  goer 

74*     brenhin  ryw  ddydd  vydd  yO  vo  (?)  e 

brylt  vrd  J  (?)  a  bryttwyf  yddo  &c    &c. 

75       Yr  havl  dec  ar  vy  neges     ....  f 

y  gynnal  y  morgannwg  Jeuan  ap  Gr:  Gioent 


•Part  II.  =  HengiDrt  262. 

79        llGorthrech  y  asaith  oriv  yd*#***       ....  g 

Gwyn  i  fyd  y  gwan  a  vedd 
*  *  #  *  *     or  drucaredd  Jeuan  Rvdd  o  vorganwc 

81  llijma  mal  i  givnair  diod  rac  brech  yr  eiddeon  :  kymer  yrvw 
achyribe  ssanffraid  ac  ysscol  vair  &c. 

82  tri  chyngor  yr  yderyn  melyn .  na  avara  Am  a  ddaiffo  /  na 
chyred  belb  ni  alio  bod  /  na  chais  beth  ni  ellych  icael. 

83  y  gyvaredd  hon  y  sydd  rrac  pob  hlevydllygaid  irac  cosi  arrac 
gwlybwr  ac  ysydd  giroin  o  radav  yr  hwn  a  rydd  i  ddyn  i  olwc  &c . 

84  Helynt  yr  enaid  pan  el  or  horff :  ^euan  vengylwr  a  ddowaid 
hyn  yn  lie  gwir  &c. 

85  ffynon  ys  ydd  ym  hyradwys  dan  von  y  pren  y  pecbodd  adda  &c. 

b.  Moral  triads :  triffeth  a  ddvvc  dyn  ineff  meddwl  glan  a  cair  a 
cweitbred  dda  &c.  &c. 

87  J  dori  gwaed  gweli  nev  verath  :  kymer  y  ganwraidd  velen  &c. 
b.  J  wnevthvr  gwallt  yn  dec  ac  yn  Mr  :  berw  ves  y  fawydd  &c. 

88  Meddylia  am  ssain  panntaseron  pan  vycb  yn  kyveddach  &c. 

89  A  fragment  (10  lines)  ending :  oni  chair  yu  iach  biroys  D.  dp  Edm: 

b.       Dywaid  ym  venaid  ir  dewi  &c.         (-1  lines  only  :  see  p.  103)  h 

90       trvgaroc  vrenhinawc  vrewAin     ....  i 

argylwydd  nffawl  evrgylyw  ath  vawl 
arglwyddiawl  brenhinawl  .  Anon. 

93  anercb  a  chariad  a  mynych  orchymyn  atocbwi  dd]  ap  ieuan  ac 
ervyn  ac  yndolwc  ichwi  na  roch  gopi  or  owdyl  hon  o  mynwcli  gael 
mwy.f 

b.       llvuiaist  oed  am  kyfoedion     ....  h 

or  ty  mor  oer  ywr  tywydd  Anon. 

*  This  page  is  written  upside  down  and  gall  stained, 
■j-  In  the  same  hand  as  pp.  89-92. 


Till  ADS,   EECIPES,   AND  POETRY. 


4§i 


94       dyn  wy  yn  Irerclded  nos     ....  « 

dd.  i  gayl  dy  vodd  gwen  Dd:  ap  echinvnt 

S6  Gioeddi:  henflFych  wel>  eneidiav  kywir  &c.  b 

98  Gwrid  marw  o  cariad  morwya     ....  c 
ac  vno  hyn  Gweu  yw  lii                                       Robin  ddv 

99  Y  ddyn  wyn  addwyn  vaynawl     ....  d 
o  pwyth  ir  karyl-  boythir  koyd                              bedo  ffyltb 

103       ddywaid  ym  venaid  ir  dewi     ....  e 

oyrni  seerch  arni  yssydd-(l.  22)|| 

105       karv  i  bvm  kyd  kvriwyf    ....  "  ./ 

somet  vi  am  osymdaith  D.  ap  Gwilim 

i08       Ef  ayth  heddiw  yn  ddiwayl     ....  g 

J  dv  leidr  i  del  adref  „         ,, 

112       karv  ir  wy  kvriawr  ais '  .     .     .     .  h 

venaid  yt  vyned  ato  "  Ni  wn  i  " 

114       Dydd  daed  vy  rriaiii  veindec     ..■"..  i 

di  wyra  dael  dyrd  iawii  /lowel  ap  Meinallt. 

118       y  Ilwyn  o  bai  oil  yn  ber     ....  k 

osgwir  vyd  poyd  yscar  vo  "  ni  w»  i" 

121       II  ay  wynudal  i  mal  ....  mork     ....  I 

*  *  *  ^(t  *  »  mynwn  yno  y  mot* 

123       acbreth  oergreth  ergrydj       .     .     .     .  •  m 

Yn  kanv  kyfanheddv  kor  || 

127  Mar:  Dd.  ap  tomass  a  tfiol:  i  byni  meib.  . 

toes  [.jjc]  duw  yn  vawr  tyrysdau  wyf  i  n 

tristed  yw  dyfed  trosti     .... 

Oess  y  pvmoess  ir  pvjuaib  Gwilim  ap  jfi.uan. 

131,      kaiff  ysscidie  tew  newydd     ....  o 

brissivvr  krwyn  byr  oss  ir  krydd  Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

132       nac  amynaid  veuaid  yn  vynycb  &c.  p 

134J     pwy  a  ddriug  y  lading  ffordd  q 

ni  ddriiig  mab  na  ffab  iffordd     .... 
end  tomas  .  .  .  kodaist  ddinas  .  .   .  basing     ..... 
bid  ar  hwnn  bedair  ******   ||    .§ 

138       dy  Ivn  ith  wise  sy  ddisclair^     ....  r 

a  ro  i  ti  wra  tec  Robin  ddv 

141       .ystvdio  yn,wastadawl     ....  s 

am  y  vvu  lion  ym  vywn  liir  Jeiian  ap  ft  vyclian 

144       Kerais  verch  kvrio  sy  vav     ....  t 

del  yw  bardd  dal  heb  ordderch  „  „ 

147       dydd  da  yt  y  gog  sercliog  vwyn     .....  u 

dygwn  y  vereb  deg  wen  vain  \D.  ap  G'\ 

151       Y  voryd  er     .     .     .     .  v 

oer  ffos  bell  or  ffowys  byth  Anon. 


*  The  outer  lower  third  of  the  folio  is  torn  oif. 

t  This  is  apparently  the  fifth  line. 

t  Page  133  has  11. 1-14. 

§  The  fir.st  words  only  of  11.  47-68  are  given. 

^  Many  cf  the  lines  are  imperfect. 


432  PENIAJITH  MANUSCRIPT   57. 

154       (lengryd  mwr  av  led  ankren     ....  a 

a  havl  a  ddatodo'  hyn  '  l>afyAA  ap  Gwilim 

158       da  i  llvniwyd  dvll  iownwedd     ....  & 

Amen  ni  ddamvnwn  mwy  „  „ 

161       vy  sswydd  yrss  [lljawer  blwyddyn     ....  c 

m  wnair  byd  ninav  ar  ben  „  „ 

163       Ti'iffeth  maVr  i  trahoffir     ....  d 

O  vin  hon  byddwn  vywn  bwy  llowdden 

166       Tyvodd  vn  oblant  diveth     ....  e- 

ni  bor  gwr  heb  avr  ac  yd  Guto  Glyn 

170  Harri  ap  ievmwnt  ap  cwain  ap  meredvdd  &c. 

171  liarre  ap  jemwnt  ap  ywain  ap  meredyth  &c. 

b.  ed.  ap  liarre  jr  Y\r\  ap  harre  y  vi]  mab  elsabeth  &c. 

Pages  172-76  are  written  upside  down,  and  the  order  is  therefore  reversed. 

176  This  page  is  very  dirty  and  torn,  and  part  is  illegible  . 

Dywaid  ym  venaid  (ir  dewi)  (See  pp.  103  &  172)   f 

175       byt  y  vric     O- 2)      .     .     .     .  g 

....  air  ir  awn  yno  (I.  5l)|| 

172  The  pedigree  of  ap  rryss  ap  rrobert  &c. 

b.      Dywaid  ym  venaid  ir  dewi  &c.     (Seep.  103)  h. 


MS,  58  =  Hen.  263.  Peophecies  in  prose  and  verse.  Paper;. 
Q\  X  4:|  inches  ;  148  pages,  top  corners  injured  by  rats ;  xvith  century  j 
in  a  case. 

The  date  M.D.lxxv  occurs  in  the  margin  of  p.  17  in  the  same  ink  as  the  rest 
of  the  MS.  The  style  of  the  writing  is  archaic.  We  have  the  foUowiug  margin- 
alia :  John  ap  Tudr  pie  hwn  (p.  41)  j  John  ap  Mred:  ap  Jeu:  orddu  (p.  44) ;  John- 
Thomas  (pp.  55  &  59). 

Fragment  of  a  prophecy :  \\  Yna  y  kyvyt  kynwrwf  kadarn  a 
wynt   ^wyrain  a  rvthra  yr    gorllevvin  ac  a   ddiweriddia  boll   gedernit 

y  .  .  .  ,  don  &c .  '.  Ac  yna  y  kyvyd  y  gwyn  ac  ydda   yr  lie 

y  kyvyt  yr  havl  ar  lie  ydigwydd  havl  ara1l||  Yna  y  dywedir  yn  ynys 
brydain  brenin  na  vrenin  .  Gwedi  hyniiy  y  dyrchaiff  i  ben  ac  y  dengys- 
i  vod  yn  vrenin  ....  ends :  Yna  gogynanvs  ffyniant  ni  ddioddeff 
amraint  na  syrhaet  iddaw  ac  wedi  y  tagneueddery  dyrnas  y  digwyddawt. 

7     Mochddaw  byt  yngryt  yngreddyff  amkian[t]     ....       i 
brithvyt  a  dybydd  o  ddikter  karanfc 
assaifF  bydd  lawen  pan  ehedant  Taliesiit 

9  Pan  vo  oed  yr  Arglwydd  yn  ddav  ssaith  gant  a  ffedair  ar  ddec  a 
Ix  y  goron  v3lodevoc  gwymapa  rrwmpa  l-iwng  olwyn  kerbyd  kaer  ' 
effroc     Ac  octdyna  hi  a  af  [sic]  ir  bryn  mynydd  kywaethoc  o  ystylys 
yr  haff  gwressoc     Ac  byth  nis  medd  ssais  llygadoc  yr  ych  i  goffyna 
paryw  haS  vydd  hwnnw  wedi  llythyren  yr  vchenait  enyd  a  nodwn 

Pwy  a  wledych  yr  ych  ar  iach  a  garwn     ....  k 

yn  rrydd  hyt  byddth  nistiddorwn  .  [1474]   ' 

11  Dewi  a   brojffivydd  [sic]  val  hyn  :  Pop  Rvw  lygat  a  wyl  pop 

rvw  galon  a  ocha  pob  rvw  davot  a  vydd  chwerw Ac  eglwys 

(luw  yna  a  vydd  Uidiawc  am   nas   perchir  ni  bydd   mwy   yna  lori 
kyssegyr  no  thori  bvarth  yr  eglwys  yn  hagyr  a  ssethyrir  ac  a  leheir 


VARIOUS  PROPHECIES.    -  433 

i  lianrrydedcj  gwyssynaethwyr  duw  yn  hagyr  a  dreissir  ychydic  or 
preladiait  mwyaff  a  arbedir  .  .  .  y  Uygion  a  gymerant  daoedd  yr 
eglwys  hep  gyffraith  &c.  &c.  Jeiian  ap  grigor 

15  Another  prophecy-^ — ||Yni  ol  y  llewes  i  kreir  mab  ddali  yr 
hwnn  a  enir  yn  ab  Ac  a  vegii'  yn  wadd  &c.  &c.  ends  ;  a  hyn  a 
ddyvot  bvyltwn  abat  a  thomas  a  merddin  . 

21  Another  prophecy :  Ar  dydd  i  gorffwyssodd  yn  arglwydd  ni 
yni  ai-gledrydd  yr  ymesgytia  y  tyrchot  Ac  y  llithyr  y  gwenwyn  ir  vn 
He  &c.  &c.  .  .  .  ac  y  kyll  deiffyr  i  hvddas  {sic]  ac  i  rrcnir  kymrv 
yn  bedair  rran  ar  ddec Ac  velly  y  tervyna  y  hrawt  jeuan. 

24  P'tvffwydoKeth  ir  fflorddlis  yw  hon  :  "  1494  "  o  oed  krist  oi 
enedigaeth  y  bydd  y  fflowrddlis  ai  benhiniaettiev  yn  y  van  Voneddica 
or  byt  ac  eff  a  gyffroir  yn  erbyn  y  llew  hen  &c.  &c. 

26   Yr  ha  hir  velyn :  Mi  a  dystia  yn  gynta  haff  half  hir  velyn     a 
a  fFob  dyffryn  yn  llawn  or  grawn  di  newyn     .... 
gwir  y  daw  gollyjigwynt  a  thyrycban  Hong  newydd 
Pan  vo  XX  mlynedd  a  CCCCCC  a  *  *  *  #  yn   dervyn 
o  ddechrev  adda  hyt  yr  haff  hir  velyn     .... 
o  hynny  allan  gwaer  sais 
a  geisio  i  drais  hir  drigian  yn  ynys  brydain    "       Taliesin 

31       Gwiliwch  mogelwch  rrac  ymai  &c.  &c.  b 

b.  Pan  ddel  eryr  or  dwyrain  a  llevcpart  or  gorllewin  &c.  Merddin     c 

33  1440  yna  y  bydd  yngwlat  geint  anosteg  &c.  d 

34  Y  hli  a  vylodeva  ai  bl  ******  tec  a  llawer  o  geinkiev  a 
pop  rryw  kaink  a  ddiiFylana  hep  fTrwyth  &c.  &c. 

39  llewpart  a  gyvyt  yr  hwn  a  vydd  kryfE  anveidarrawl  a  chidag 
eff  y  marchoea  lliosoc  .dorvoedd  &c.  &c.  ends :  Ac  yn  ddiffael  yng 
hwlen  y  kymer  efi  i  ddiwedd  ac  i  kleddir  efFym  plith  y  tri  brenhin  o 
gwlert  a  offyrymodd  i  vair  Taliessin  ai  dyvot 

41  Atvydd  brwydyr  ddienkil  yngwlad  babilon     ...  e 
A  phan  vo  vj  blynedd  a  chwechant  a  

o  ddechrev  adda  hyt  yr  ha  hir  velyn     .... 
bievydd  y  goron  ar  holl  gerydd 

Ar  kanv  hwnnw  a  elwir  kanv  yr  arwyddion. 

42  Yn  awr  ddygyffawr  am  ddigyfFing     ....  / 
gwst  prydain  pryder  i  ni 

43  ka7iv  ir  ymerot  or  almen  .  .  arglwydd  mynydd  myne 

Pan  ddel  draic  ymynev  ai  gadav     ....  g 

i  ynill  gwlad  duw  yn  ddiev  /  kyffynot  gwed 

45  llyma  ganv  eto  i  ddyraic  y  -ik  ik  *■  * 

Gwybydd  vot  val  rrot  yn  troi  #*****...,        /j 
yn  rran  o  wledd  oessoedd  hep  ddim  eissiev.  hercam 

46  Yr  hydd  ar  vynydd  offa     ....  i 
a  gwanwyn  gwaedlyt  yn  gyntaff  . 

49  A  fragment  ending  :  onis  gwery  t  duw  yn  tat  oi  rat  rinweddev  k 
Eff  a  vydd  kyvingykor  y  kar  gorev  .  Merddin. 

60  Another  fragment  ending  :  a  beli  a  gruffuydd  yn  rryt  rryoedd   I 

b.       Gwedi  Ehedyn  vrenin  ai  vraint  tirion     ....  m 

dir  yn  oes  y  kadarn  enwir  gad  hayarnion   . 

51       Eff  a  ddaw  byt  yd  *****  «  Rota     ...  n 

luna  (?)  lunioc  ardderchoc  da 


434  PBl^IAETH  iSIANUSGail'T   58. 

52  Anrec  vrien :  [Gogyvercjtais  gogyVarchaff     .     ,     .     ,     ■       -«' 
Ac  ni  elwyf  inev  /  in  dygvn  -aagev  ''  ■       i  ; 

na  bwyf  ym  clirwen  /  na  molwyf  vi  Vrien 

54  Disgogan  awen  lien  a  herwydd     ....  i 
a  ffobyloedd  yn  eirian  arvcedd                                Taliessin. 

55  Drogan  wedi  hyn  o  honaf  *  *  *  #  c 
drogan  a  ddaw  rrac  Haw  llai  *  *  * 

Eryr  ynerchi  y  drwc  archav     .... 

dir  yn  oes  y  kadarn  enwir  kat  bayrnion  Taliesin. 

56  [byddawt  e]ryr  yn  wir  ar  dir  dewi*  d 
fbyddawt  kyljeddev  tan  yn  Han  llieni     .... 

a  grvffvdd  a  vedd  y  gorton     .... 

yn  ol  mab  henri  mawr  vydd  y  dyfFysgi     .... 

y  bydd  oes  drythyll  hep  ganwyll  ganon  ,    Adda  vras 

60  *#.##♦*  haff  yn  yawr  |  ben  gogyvarcliwr  «  *  *  #       e 
[ynjgorllewin  nef  a  Uawr     .     .     ,     . 

a  gway  saesson  pan  i  gwypon  . 

61  Karonoc  V^aban  daw  byt  breiddvarnan     ....  J 
.  kyvyt  o  gvdd  gwr  a  wna  bvdd  yw  obeithion 

Ac  ywain  vydd  i  henw  honait  gyffrangon     .... 
dwyvil  a  dcvkant  byclian  ai  karant  y  keiri 

64  *#**##  wraidd  a  rediev  ]  hyddgant  &c.  &c.|  g 

65  Proffivydolieth  y  heilioc :  Mynych  alv/et  3'r  eos  yn 
gyffla'  •  *  *  #  •  *r  ddigrivwch  tiit  ymystymafE  ar  vawr  lywen- 
ydd  ....  ends :  a  bit  i  ti  amherodyrawl  anrydedd  erddwch 
pedrewch  ni  vo  marw  tarw  torvoedd  [pryjdain  . 

73       Krist  jfessu  am  kv  am  kydvydd     ....  h 

A  .  cbel  am  dan  vyrain  agwain  kyn  ecbwydd 
Ac  ochain  ymprydain  rrac  ywain  a  vydd     .... 
Arcban  drvgared]  kyn  diwedd  y  dydj 

75       Gwr  bievydd  terrvyn  gely  ##**#«  i 

Gwyn  i  vyd  gymro  gwae  bwynt  saesson 
Arglwydd  pa  bryt  vydd  hynny  &c.  &c. 

77  Proffwydolieth  awnaeth  Me[^i'ddin]  einyrais  wrth  wrtheyryn 
fficrthene :  Ac  \'al  ydd  oedd  gwrtheyrn  gwrthenev  yn  eistev  ar  glann 
y  Hyn  gwehyiiycdic  y  ky vodassant  dwy  ddyraic  o  boimaw  &c.  &c.  .  . 
ends:  Ac  vlw  yrai  hen  a  atnywyddheir  Ygwynav  a  ymdorant  o  irat 
chwythedigacth  ac  a  wnan  sain  y  rrwng  ysser. 

113  Hon  yw  p'ir'\offwydolieth  sibliX  yr  hon  oedd  verch  pvima- 
dil  [sic]  vrenhin  Ac  hecuba  oedd  i  mam:  Ac  o  roec  i  gelwit  hi  tibin- 
tina  [sic]  Ao  o  ladiri  Albima  hon  a  aethpop  eilwers  i  bregetliv  i  amra- 

vaelion  rranav  y  dwyrain  &c.  &c ends :  Ac  yna  y  *  *  *  * 

pawb  gan  lef  y  coryn  oddvwch  ben  yn  kwynaw  trveni  pechawt  y  byt 
Ac  ev  llavvryev  amravel  ac  yua  yr  ymddengys  vffern  a  bwrw  y  ddayar 
i  arnaw  ac  yngwydd  yr  arglwydd  y  tynnv  i  bj-enhinedd  yw  gwaelawt 
ac  am  by  peyn  y  digwydd  or  neff  yn  avon  o  dan  a  bj-wmystan. 

144  Y  ragorav  a  gaiff  y  neb  a  welo  koryff  krist  pan  ganer 
yfferen :  Aughenvwyt  a  gymero  ni  ddeelir  &c. 

*  See  p.  147  of  this  MS. 

t  The  end  of  the  poem  is  missing.      It  is   difficult  to  say   whether   pp.   60-4 
contain  one  or  several  poems. 
J  Practically  the  same  text  as  Ucd  Booh  of  Hergest,  cols.  571a-577. 


.k    VAEIOUS   PEOPHECIES.  4-3 5 

145  Drogan  y  vor  vorwyn  Tcdiessin*  #  *  y  henvydd  honno. 

Gwelais  i  voiawt  ac  addoet  yspydawt  a 

gweleis  gynnanwyn  am  y  voruorwyn 

gueleis  anrjued  a  chyflauared     .     .     . 

ry  gnawynt  y  gyt  o  gybi  a  dinv  oe  dihewyt  .. 

146  Drogan  y  llynges  droni  droch  . 

Duwsiil  voloch  I  duwsul  gwrthgroch     ....  b 

na  Uwyt  lliw  kraic  |  na  gwas  llympheic 

lac  ovyu  y  bla  |  ao  oi  diva  |  mat  uo  ynnia  |  gwr  ai  gwna  . 

147  A  fragment  ending :  a  dilev  byt  drwy  wy t  a  wnan  c 

ny  byd  dilwit  y  dielean  oil  adon 
reged  A  chyret  i  ]evan  . 

b.       byddawt  eryr  yn  wir  ar  dir  dowi     ....  d 

A  llvvyrwys  dan  Eys^n  ynysbrydain  a  |1  (see  pp.  5,6-59). 


MS.  59  =  Hen.  MS.  264(').  Poetei',  Pedigeees,  the  partition 
of  PoAVYS  Wenwynwtn,  Erea  Pater's  peognostications.  Paper ; 
5|  X  Sj  inches;  104  pages  (pp.  41-56  are  injured  at  the  top  by  rats)  ; 
in  a  case  with  MS.  60.  Pages  1-19  are  in  the  hand  of  Simwnt  Vychan 
(1550-1606)  ;  pages  21-40  belong  to  the  first  half  of  the  xvith  century  ; 
and  the  rest  to  the  second  half  of  that  century. 

1       Haf  hir  wynnawo  kofodawc  o  law/     ....  e 

bid  pobl  yngryd  Eac,  ofn  trengi  Tcdiessin 

3       Gwedi  koter  y  bedde  |  Y  mynwent  gerbre     ....         / 
bid  dydd  llawen  gwedy  duw  nodolic  •  ,, 

5       Gwyr  mon  ai  gwyl  ^  arr  bennrrynn     ....  g 

y  gwr  hwnnw  a  wastata  a  ynj-s  v  brytaniaid  (see  MS.  53, 
pp.  15-24). 

17  Ornamental  borderings 

18  T.iriaf  mawl  hayaf.mal  hynn  tv  .  r  .  Afon  h 
Twr  ifor  o  benllynn  &c. 

19  Pedigrees  :  (a)    Y  maes   matvr  \  y  pi  as  newydd :   ^cmwnt 
Iwyd  jfvstvs  pyrs  mab  thomas  llwyd  &c. 

b.  Meyvod :  Joiin  ap  ifeuan  ap  ywain  Margred  kinastr  &e. 


Avalleneu,  Hoianeu,  etc.     (See  MS.  1,  pp.  41-62.) 

.The  order  of  pages  21-42  is  reversed  by  the  scribe,  i.e.,  he  begins  on  page  40  and 
continues  backwards  on  pages  39,  38,  37,  ^c.  * 

40       Mor  drvau  genyf  mor  drvan  &c.  (p.  1)  i 

39       Gwynnvyd  y  vedwen  yn  dyfFryn  guy     ....  h 

dyrchavawd  maban  yn  advaii  dehav  (p.  48-49) 

37       A  roddet  y  nep  yn  vn  plygaint     ....  I 

gloywedd  yw'y  henw  gloywyn  i  daint 
b.      Avallen  pereu  bvrwen  o  vlodav     ....  m 

namyn  saith  eilwaith  yw  hen  a  hadnev 

36       Avallen  pei'en  a  dyff  dra  rrvn  &c.  (p.  50)  n 

&.      Avallen  iTeren  bvrwen  i  brlc    T    .~.     .      '  'O 

nevd  wyf  diadaw  a  dieiddic 


436  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPT   59. 

35       Avallen  peren  a  dyff  yglan  nant     ....  a 

a  minahav  gan  wylo  nim  adwaenant 

b.  Avallen  beren  bren  yssytbat     ....  b 
ac  yntav  heddiw  val  na  bwyad 

c.  Avallen  beren  bren  addveinvs     ....  e 
yd  vydant  wyr  raraant  rydrwyvanus 

(■/.      Avallen'  beren  bren  hydwff  glas  &c.      (p.  48)  ^ 

34       Avallen  beren  bren  diledkynt  a  dyf  yn  tal  ardd  &c.  (p.  50)    e 

b.  Avallen  beren  bren  biboric     ....  f 
y  talawr  i  gerddawr  i  gylenio 

c.  Avallen  beren  bren  ni  grino     ....  g 
ni  wn,a  anhedd  pan  pevsseddo 

S3       Avallen  beren  bren  ar  honait     ....  h 

rac  trin  hyt  na  bwyf  gyffrin  ac  essyffleid 

b.  Avallen  beren  berafE  i  haeron  f 
a  dyf  yn  argel  yn[g]lioed  kylyddoti  &e.      (p.  52) 

c.  Avallen  beren  a  dyff  yn  llanerch  k 
A  chydvod  grandde  o  aranwynion  ||  (p.  49,  ].  15-p.  51, 1.  ig) 

30  llyma  awdyl  agvddiwyt  gynt  rac  gwyr  orp  I 

Oian  a  borchellan  mor  yw  \_sic]  ryvedd 
i  edrych  bethlem  drem  ardehedd 
b.      Oian  a  borchellan  addoeth  gwener  m 

a  vynno  keissio  keissiet  ^^ownder 
GrrniFudd  evvdd  ef  wna  iownder 
A  garai  goddeilio  meibion  a  dynion  over  «#**** 

29       Oian  borqhellan  mor  yw  avyren     ....  n 

ni  ddyrcbaifE  mab  sais  ais  byth  hyt  lavt^en 

b.      Oian  borchellan  bychan  karant     ....  o 

gwir  mae  ir  goron  y  gwrhaant* 

28       Oian  borchellan  hoyan  hoyav  ....  (p.  56, 1.  5,  to  p.  63,  p 

y  daw  ytivedd  Ryvel  iddi  1.  1,  excepting  p.  57  11.  8-13). 

21       Avallen  beren  bren  ail  weddva     ....  q 

llias  Mab  gwenddydd  vy  Haw  ai  gvvna 

b.      Avallen  beren  bren  addveiniat     ....  r 

rac  kymynv  dy  ysbail  y   amdanat  ]  a  chyn  || 


41  An  account  of  the  descendants  of  Owen  Kyveliog  and  of 
the  ^a7-iition  of  Powys  Wenwynwyn.  The  sons  of  Gruff:  ap  Gwen- 
wynwyn  were : — yvvain,  Hn,  Johon,  william,  Gr:  vychann,  dafydd.' 
Ywaiu  inherited  Arwystli,  Kyveliog,  Swydd  LannercA  Hudol  and 
half  of  Kaer  Enion ;  Llywelyn  received  Mochnant,  and  Mechain 
vch  Koed;  John  the  fourth  part  of  Kaer  Enion*  #  *  #  *  *  [Wiliam} 
got  Mowddwy  and  Gr:  V)  chan  had  for  Lis  portion  Deuddwr,  Swydd 
Ystrad  Marchell,  and  Teir-tref.  The  above  Owen  had  a  daughter 
named  Hawys  Gadarn  who  married  "  Johon  of  Jarlton  "  vel  Carlton^ 
'•gwreng"  Edward  of  Carnarvon.  When  Owen  died  there  was  a  war 
between  Hawys  and  her  uncles  because  "  no  land  fell  to  a  daughter." 
As   a  consequence,  by  the  aid  of  the  king,  the  Uncles  Llywelyn,  John, 

*  The  bottom  of  this  folio  is  cut  out. 


THE  PROGNOSTICATION  OF  ERRA  PATER.        437 

and  David  were  thrown  into  prison  at  Harddlech,  &c.,  and  Hawys  at 
last  succeeded  to  the  lands  of  her  father. 

An  account  of  the  descendants  of  Hawys  follows,  down  to  John 
earl  of  Worcester. 

48  Kynfyn  ap  gwrystaun'  a^  gwaith  voed  a  briodes  yngharad  verch 
vredvdd  ap  owain  ap  howel  dda.  &c. 

49  A  short  treatise  concerning  the  descendants  of  Meredydd  ap 
Bleddyn  "  lord  of  all  Powys,"  and  of  the  manner  his  Icirdship  was 
partitioned  among  his  successors  down  to  Owen  lord  of  "  Glyn 
^yfrdwy  "  who  in  1400  took  up  arms,  "and  Wales  with  him,"  and 
burnt  Ruthiu.  Soon  after  Owen  captured  the  lord  of  Euthin  and 
Sir  Edward  Mortimer  and  there  was  a  ransom  of  x  thousand  marks. 

56  Pedigree  of  Edmund  earl  of  Eichmond. 

6.  Pedigree  of  Elen  wife  of  Gr:  Vychann  and  mother  of  Owen 
"  Glyc  dwr  "  .... 

57  "  The  perpetual  prognostication  of  Err  a  Pater"*  (p.  104),  or 
How  to  foretell  the  character  of  the  year  from  the  day  of  the  week  on 
which  January  1st  happens  to  fall :  Y  flwyddyn  y  del  ^fonawr  i  mewn 
av  dduw  svl  /  y  gayaf  a  fydd  oer  a  llaith  /  ar  haf  a  fydd  gwre.sog  / 
amser  kynhayaf  a  fydd  gwiitog  a  glawog  ag  andler  [  =  amlder]  o  vd  a 
gwinoydd  a  grawn  eraill  &c. 

65  Beth  y  may  y  Trane  yn  i  arwyddockav  pobdydd  or  wythnos  :  O 
bydd  Trane  ddvw  svl  fo  fydd  marfolaeth  fawr  ar  ysgolheigion  vstysiaid 
a  fl'obyl  ddrwg  eraill 

66  Hoio  to  foretell  tTie  character  of  the  coming  year  from  marking 
the  weather  of  Christinas  day,  and  also  from  the  day  of  the  week  on 
which  Christmas  day  falls.  Pan  vo  nos  dvw  nydolig  yn  deg  ag  yn 
eglvr  yr  hin  a  heb  wynt  na  glaw  :  llyna  arwydd  y  bydd  y  flwyddyn 
bono  yn  amyl  gwin  ffryrythydd  &c. 

74  Gwyhodeth  yr  hwsmon  .  Yr  hwsmon  y  mae  gwybodeth  vn  y 
modd  hyn  :  may  yn  gynta  yn  markio  ar  ddvw  nydolig  ag  fellv  rragddo 
may  yn  markio  y  devddeg  diwrnod  eraill  yn  inion  or  dydd  kynta  :  a  ffa 
bin  bvnag  fvtlio  ar  bod  vn  or  devddeg  diwrnod  felly  fydd  v  mis  sy  yn 
pvrthvnv  ir  diwrnod  hwnw  &c.  &c. 

104  lljma  fal  y  diwedd  y  pyronosteicasiwn  tyragwyddol  o  waith  yr  vrddol 
ystyronomeer  erra  patar  yr  hwn  oedd  iddew  f.Uan  or  gyrysdynogaeth  yngywylad 
£=yDgwIad]  y  twrk. 

This  is  the  ende  of  thys  litel  boocke  whiche  was  the  makinge  of  erra  pater 
Robert  ap  Rys  ys  the  true  onor  of  thy\^s]. 


MS.  60  =  Hen.  269.  Poetry.  A  Welsh  Calendar  &c.  Paper; 
6  X  4|  inclies  ;  140  pages,  discoloured  and  partly  loose ;  in  various 
hands  of  the  xvith  century  ;  iri  a  base  with  MS.  59. 

Pages  1-8,  21,  75-6,  80-6,  92-4,  122-6,  133-6  are  in  the  cramped  hand  already 
alluded  to  (see  MS.  58).  It  is  impossihle  in  some  instances  to  make  any  sense  of 
■this  writing,  and  a  contemporary  pen  characterises  it,  with  more  truth  than  politeuess, 
as  "  endles  damne"  (p.  125).  Whether  the  verse  is  in  a  kind  of  Whitmanese  metre, 
or  merely  the  beginning  of  the  lines  are  given  it  is  not  easy  to  say.  In  some  places 
the  verse  is  quite  regular.  The  poems  which  have  "  prefixed  to  the  authors'  names 
have  the  characteristics  of  holographs,     "liber  Johannis  Lewis  "  (p.  140). 

Pages  22-4,  95,  98,  109-10,  120-4,  132,  138-40  are  blank. 

*  Compare  William  Lilly's  New  Erra  Pater  (London), 


438 


PENIAETH.^MANUSOEIPT    60. 


3 

4:-- 


6 
6. 

7 


\\y  g6r  sy  hOy  noc  y6i'  sir     ....  « 

mei  OS  li6n  [y]0  mis  hiuon 

eil  y  mis  yO  6iliam  sion 

gOr  y  biey  y  ddey  dda 

goyd  ac  yd  gOidigada     .... 

ond  oley  ney  dy  6ilyim  Anon. 

gOr  o  Gad  gorey  ydi6  &c.  b 

perthyn  arrnad  ffylip'  fyclian  #  #*...,  c 

TnOeitli  6yt  ar  g[6]eHith  yn  ;|  ac  vnfric.  „ 

silyn  g6yr  katitr[*»c]  .  .  ymrycheinioc  .  .  Uangoyd  .  .  d 

OS  hen  y6r  Hys  hyn  hen  yOyrddoenarddar  „ 

ssion  fychan  o  cemeis         or  hontfayn  . 

ysdyrrywch  pyrdfwch  &c.  c 

Obob  man  baOb  |     .     .     .     .  / 

John  fychan  daryau  ....  rrotia  a  hon  .  „ 


8  pOy  bynac  a  fyno  meddyciniayth  raklefyd  y  marchocyon  hOydd 


gOndid 
h. 
9 


13 


16 


17 


20 


21 
25 

28 


39 


Ho.  ap  dd.  ap  j^u.  ap  Rys 
'Datiid  Epynt 
Anon: 


'jfevan  gethin. 


y  eisdeddfo  keis  &c. 

Kid  Raid  yniach  or  achos  &c. 

II  !ir  6aith  auv  a  myrr  a  thys  ? 
i  daO  r  glod  i  .  .  .  .  gOladus 
vn  o  verchet  hen  vrycbann     . 
aet  du6  a  g6enn  at  i  g6r  ■  ' 

Maengwat  hywel  amhadoc     .     .     . 
Ef  aeth  mair  vyth  am  erjT 

gwalch  dafydd  gam     .... 
maesti"  'watgya  ....  gidaiachas  nad 

II  Ym  yr  oedd  meir  a  wyddiad  .  . 
Gwychlaw  sioa  diurjon  waew  dur 
Gwyjin  ap  rys  gvvnnaf  gwynprysur 
gwardd  lywelyn  dyn  dv  .  .  .  , 
sieryf  ar  grvdiev  seirian 
syr  wiliam  gledd  dinain  glan  .  . 
a  mynv  r   jawnn  ganntv  gj'd 

Mi  a  wn  lie  mae  anedd     .... 

efu  riiss  vyw  ar  y  ol 

lien  gel  aeth  ar  Iwelyn 

llif  noe  awnaeth  llefaiii  (!■  8)  || 

perthyn  arnad  &c.  (see  page  4) 

Pryus  o  nef  |  Barnwyd  oedd     ,     . 
Arcliaf  vn  arch  yw  veneid 

sion  fychan  hyd  forganOc     .     .     . 
lliOydd  dillad  lloi  iyiiaingk 

^arll  gvvent  o  'harlment  yn  ben  y  tyir  gwlad     .... 

Pennaf  o  ieirM  penfro  6yd     .     .     .     .. 

DuO  yth  gad6  hari  yth  argl6yddiaeth     .... 

Fob  iaith  yth  yiirlliO  pa6b  yth  iarllaeth       "#  ap  Rysiert 

Welsh  Metres  :  Mak  a  mwn  Mr  : 
(])     kkkk     tttt     ktkt     kkkk     tttt     kt     kk 
(i.j)     Alban  Rudderch  :  k  t     kk  t  k     ttt  k  tt  k  t  kk 
ends:  (xxxi]) 


letcys  inorgannwc 


P 


"rrys  namor 


Dim  a  dim  k  t    k 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  439 

42  Rac  vessurev  ynt  y  rrei  hynn 

(l)  kor  aklan  kkk  t  k  tt  k  ttt  k 

ends :  (xxv)  decfir  wnsach  tttt  kkk  t  k  tttt  kkk  t 

45       Dydi  ferch  anerchwyd     ....  "Rys  dij  ap     a 

Poyd    gwell  dy  chwedel  poyd  gwir  U'n  ap  kydiegan 

49-74  A  Welsh  Kelendar 

75       pa  ry6  beth  ssyn  p*er    #*....  b 

dryssOch  gan  ofal6ch  fy  ?  unfinished 

77  In  memory  of  Bp.  Robert  Ferrar 

yr  escob  ar  wise  i  bejin     ....  C 

oedd  dy  vonedd  hyt  vynyw     .... 

Gwae  ef  tra  gof  ai  trewis 

Ef  a  vv  r  gof  varw  or  gis 

Mae  n  i  emyl  lie  gwyl  gwyr 

01  y  mwrthwl  y  inertbyr 

nis  tynn  kynoc  -wynn  oi  gor 

Er  parbav  or  prior 

Na  chymer  var  dy  geraint 

Doktor  sion  na  dikter  saint 

ych  rhoi  n  gar  ni  chair  vn  gwann 

Allai  varchell  i  vrychan     .... 

Gwedy  bot  y  gwaet  oi  benn 

Gad  ir  dorch  gadwr  dywarchenn  Anon. 

80  Deytb  deigr  ]  dygyfor  fal  |  ny  ellyngir  |     .     .     .     .  d 
arf  y6  oleG  ar  vil6r  |  da  gorff  y6                       dafyd  epynt 

81  OjTr  o  g6yn  ]  am  osod  heb  oufod    »    .     .     .  e 
dafydd  ac  eneid  |  trebl  iddiddos  loyw(?j)                       Anon. 

82  llyma  en6ey  y  tri  thl6s  ar  ddec  or  gocle[dd'\  kyntaf  oydd  lien 
artliyr  ny  6elid  a  fei  den[i]  ac  ef  a  6elei  ba[6]b  &c. 

84  *  yolinon  OayO  blayriaOr     ....  f 
maysdress  sian  meistres  6ynedd                                     Anon. 

85  elssabeth  fal  eneth    ....  g 
veneitec  rrac  ofn                                                                      „ 

87       Y  dderOen  vaOr  a  deiryd  h 

i  6ent  .  .   .  maisstr  Oiliam  .  ,  .  herbart     .... 
ar  y  lla6r  er  da  r  holl  jfaith  "Rys  hrychaii. 

92       y  lien  yn  rroi  llyOenydd     ,;-,.-  i 

ay  g6ayth  hil  hy6el  gethin     .... 
anOyJ  yO  ny  pl6yf  yno  Anon. 

'93       y  gOr  rahob  mil6r  k 

Rydd  yO  y  rboddyon  or  aur  yr  aOron 
taney  ac  eney  \sic\  „ 

96       dyuthiim  ddu6  syl  diOethaf     ....  I 

J  dref  .  .  .  .  y  fflint     .... 
ai  iFobl  sy  is  itn  aii  ffibydd  Hydyr  Penllyn 

99       llywelyn.  a  fyn  afyno  baynydd     ....  m 

ar6anec  avr  arOia  g6un  °^e«.-  llwyd 

102  Tridec  ynarddec  addyd  yrf  ogylch  &c.  Anon,  n 

103  Concerning  Welsh  metres. 


4!40  "      PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    60. 

104       maiOol  Cyf  am  Cr  o  len  a 

o  rod  y  chan  rydychen 

arcbiagon  .  .  .  Wiliam  Wallter  |  doctor     .... 
ayd  vy  wyllyss  yd  velly  .  °tho7nas  llawddyn 

106       Du6  maOr  klyO  n  dirfaOr  d*erfynn  dr6y  oergl6yf  b 

am  arglOydd  tal  y  Uynn     .... 
marO  John  ai  etifedd     .... 
ach6yr  ynau  dra6  -achaerau  u  dr#  ' 
AchrCys  i left  unfinished. 

Ill       Mair  va6r  nef  a  llaOr  y6r  llys  ar  ffynon  c 

ar  ffynyant  ym  hen  rys     .... 
vy  hynt  yo  u  vyan  .at  vair  "Jeuan  ab  Ho:  hae  ll6i/d 

115       Y  drindod  avr  glod  argl6ydd  dy6  iessv     ....  d 

**0n  yOir  bennaeth  dyO  an  erbyno  „  „ 

119  ILyma  y  gwahanniaeth  yssyd  rrwng  y  llythyreu  yssydd  saesnoc 
ar  rrei  yssydd  yn  gymraec  ....  dwbwl  dy[«.e.  dd]  yn  gymiaec  .  .  .a 
thorn  I  e.  y  yn  saesnec  &c. 

121  Salutations  in  English  and  Welsh 

Syr  god  gyve  you  good  daye  e 

Syrr  duw  a  ro  ywch  ddydd  da  &c.  &c. 

122  Py  son  o  6ent  p6y  syn  iach  |  lladd  mab  iarll    .  .     .     f 
moys  eir  as  yr  maystyrisiart                                          °ier6ert 

125       argl6ydd  ern6mlydd    ....  g 

dody  bCys  yn  rreid  y  byd  Anon. 

127       ay  g61edd  aGnaeth  argI6ydd6a6r  h 

yngOant  .achomensment  maOr     .... 
g61edd  ieyan  raelan  ben  raith 
gCiedd  6iliam  argl6ydd  ail6aith     .... 
gOr  y  god  o  loycr  gadarn  left  unfinished. 

129       Pwy  a  gayff  hap  oy  goffay     ....  i 

nia6r  iaOn  Gyt  arnom  tomas 
yt  arfoc  lew  tref  a  gwlad  °Jeuan  llwyd 

133       May  eil  keidGad  lual  kadell    ■.     .     .     .  k 

yGein  ny  chad  yna  ch  Gell 
tGyssoc  o  Gent  is  y  garth     .... 
dyGiess  yr  rroydoyss  arhent  "Robin  ddy 

137       Dyn  a  red  |  mayn  ydrym  I  &c.  / 


MS.  61  =  Hen.  482a.  Poetey  mostly  by  John  BEwyxoG.  Paper ; 
65  X  4|  inches  ;  70  pages,  discoloured  and  injured  by  damp ;  xvith 
century,  and  probably  in  the  autograph  of  John  Brwynog ;  in  a  case. 

Imperfect  at  the  beginning  and  end.  '  per  me  Owen  Hughes  '  and  '  Thomas  lewis  ' 
(p.  21);  'Robert  Wynne  is  the  second  Ower  of  this  booke'  (p.  26);  'John 
Johnes,  Thomas  Wynne,  Robert  I/loyd '  (p.  43). 


||Er  ffyd  pol  gair  a  hofFwyd  (1-  41)     ...     . 

dydd  y  farn  dy  ddeav  fo  .  John  brwijnog 

II  yr  avr  )aith  o  ryw  /  a  gallv     .... 

tomas  yn  glo  vrddas  gwlad 

ap  y  rolont  yn  brelud     .... 

avr  arddeler  ]or  vrddoliayth  Anon. 

'  These  signatures  are,  inferentially,  in  the  author's  handwriting. 


m 


POETKT  BY  JOHN  BRWYNOG. 


441 


maythv  rrwyddawc  maith  (*****)....  n 

pwyn  rci  wythganfork  penn  rraith  gwinfay     John  hrwynog 

Kvvchillan  o  lydan  wedd     ....  h 

EEowioc  y  dvc  wyr  howel 

RRolant  ar  bvmkant  avr  bel     .... 

dal  byth  yn  'dy  baw  y  bel  .  „  „ 

(Pei  kisiech  liarddlech  ochaid)  &c.  &c.  c 

rrannv  a  wyddiad  yn  rrinweddol     ....  d 

ach  gav  ar  John  .  .  .  vab  rrys  wynn     .... 

G\vae  lyn  vyth  gwilien  i  vedd 

Gav  ar  vn  gwr  o  wynedd  „  „ 

Oerfel  ydoedd  ar  flodav     ....  e 

Mae/n/  rrew  ym  hob  mann  yr  hav/c 

am  i  hoedl  hvw  am  hadawc     .... 

liwnn  bo  vel  hvw  yn  y  byd  „  „ 

Y  gwaenwyn  y  bvr  gwnnoedd     ....  f 
kav  a  cholli  kwchillau     .... 
yno  del  enaid  wiliam                                             „              „ 

annerch  nac  annerch  gennad     ....  g 

amnaid  ac  na  ddwaid  ddym  dd:  ap  Gwilym 

Y  brie  vrddedio  ar  ddewidion  daw  h 
o  dowys  glynn  lliwon 

■wiliam  .  .  .  .  yn  fyw  ni  wnn  vn  oi  fath     .... 
koflFav  avr  ddadav  kyft'  vrddedic.  John  brwynog 

penn  rraith  yr  avr  laith  o  ryw  &c.  „  „         i 

ybarwn  a  byw  eryr     ....  k 

katwo  merodr  koytmoriaid  dd:  nanmor 

ZlWbarnad  elissa  ap   Gruff"  ap  einion 

bid  rrywann  boytri  ennyd  / 

bid  bwlch  ar  wybodav  byd     .... 

y  penn  oydd  fo  pann  oydd  fyw  leivgs  man 

duw  rren  dvc  edwart  vrenin     ....  ;;; 

kiw  owain  glynn  kan  y  gloch  Tiidr  aled 

pa  vn  difalch  penn  defic     ....  « 

gan  hynn  fab  gwynn  a  henn  fych  John  brwynog 

Y  mayr  mays  vel  mor  moyssen     ....  o 
dyfrn  rrydderch  ap  dafydd     .... 
oyr  oydd  roi  .  .  .  yn  y  pridd  wyneb  rrydderch 


11 


14 
15 


18 


22 


27 


28 


33 
b. 


40 


44 


40 


bid  naf  mewn  bowyd  nel'ol 

53       "Vn  dmv  arvthr  ond  irad     .     . 
fo  ayth  o  lann  faythlv  wr     . 
owain  ap  John  owain  oydd     . 
gras  yw  blant  gorssibol  oydd 

59      y  plas  y  kyrch  pob  naasiwn     . 
o  wedir  .  .  .  mab  ssion  wynn 
drwy  ddiiw  a  daria  ddwyoys 

62       Pa  wr  gwaydol  pvr  godiad     . 

bowyd  vchel  bodychen     .     .     . 

rrys  wynn  o  dwr  ssion  i  dad 

bid  i  eryr  bodwrawc 
67      Ynynodd  yn  i  wyneb  &c. 
E     98430. 


John  brwynog 


K 


442  TENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    61. 

C8        (Thy  rest  gives  me  a  restlesse  life 

Because  thou  ivast  a  matchlesse  wife  &c.) 

69  This  page  contains  4  short  pieces  by  J.  Brwynog  which  are  illegible  in  part. 

70  This  page  has  a  few  fragments  which  are  only  partially  legible. 

Leaves  have  been  cut  out  at  the  end. 


MS.  62  =  Heu.  MS.  303.  Welsh  Grammars,  &c.  Paper;  6x4 
inches ;  148  pages,  discoloured  but  legible  throughout ;  in  a  case  ■with 
MS.  61. 

The  MS.  is  in  the  autograph  of  Syr  Thomas  Wiliems  (all  but  pages  1 45-7)  and 
illustrating  three  distinct  methods  of  orthography  adopted  by  him  :  (a)  pp.  27-119  ; 
(6)  pp.  120-41  where  he  seems  to  follow  the  lead  of  Gr.  Roberts ;  and  (c)  pp.  1-10, 
144  and  148  which  illustrate  his  final  method.  On  the  vellum  covering  is  written — 
"Gr.  Roberts  ar  ol  y  parchedig  Robert  Wyun."  This  Gr.  Roberts  [1793]  must 
not  be  confounded  with  the  Grammarian. 

Pages  12-16  &  142-3  are  blank. 

A  treatise  on  Welsh  Metres  and  their  terminology 

1  Cerdh  dannte  :  Ihyma  henweii  Clyraeu  ac  eu  penn»u  yn^  canlyn, 
ail  mesureu  .  &c. 

3  Ihymd  r  Ihiuer  a  elwir  kidwadifjaeth  Cerdh  Tannaii,  nyt  amgeo 
no  Thelynae  a  Chrythau  o  vewn  Tair  Talhith  C3'mru 

11  (Nid  oes  fawr  ragoriaeth  rhwng  y  Grammadeg  yma  a  Dafydd  Ddu  Athro, 
Simwnt  Fychan,  ac  eraill — etto  ef  a  gyfrifir  yu  orau  o'r  rhai  hyti  oil) —  in  the  hand 
of  Ed.  Wynne. 

17  llyma  dosparth  cerd  dant,  nid  amgen  /  Cywiar  dannau  a 
thynniadau  .  &c. 

20  llyma  bedwar  mesur  ar  h&gain  Cerdd  dant  .  &c. 

21  llyma  y  saith  vesur  ar  hugain 

Gochel  Geibio — ]]oj]iooo]]]0]]0]  .  &c. 

23  o  LYFR  Ji/"  LONGFORD :   V  .TV  bat   cyffredin  .  dryc  ystyr  &c. 

24  llyma  bellach  ffordd  i  wybod  mesurau  y  gerdd  y  rhai  a  dynnwyd 
or  lladin  drwy  athrawaeth  Einion  offeiriad  &c. 

25  allan  o  hen  lyver  llel  Gutto :  Nid  oes  vn  llythyren  namyn 
tair  a  safo'ngrym  silldaf  .  sef  .  A  .  y  .  o  .  &c. 

S7  William  Cynwal's  Welsh  Grammar  :  ILyma  ddosparth  y 
pvm  llyvr  Cerddwriaeth  cerdd  dafod  ....  Beth  yw  llythyren  ?  y 
lleferydd  lleiuf  .  Gair  .  Sillaf  .  ac  ymadrodd  .  aphedwar  peth  a  berthyn 
arni  .  henw  .  llvn  .  gallv  ac  ordr.  Pedair  llythyren  ar  vgein  y  sydd  yn 
iaith  Gamberaec  .  .  ends:  Aches  tri  pheth  a  ddyly  prydydd  —  Jawa 
ddyscv  /  ^awn  ganv  /  ifawn  varnv. 

y  llyfr  kionn  a  scrivenais  i  allan  c  lyvr  wiliam  Cynical  prydydd  oi  law  ef  i  hvn 
ac  a  ddiweddais  y  14  .  die  o  vis  Gorphentiaf  1  SS'2  ....    Tho:  Wilienns. 

114  Jr  .  M  .  pers  Mosden  odl  valiant  ac  ynddir  y  xxiiij  mesur  SfC, 
Pen  breisgedd  bonedd  benod  parch  vowredd     .... 
par  dorf  ar  wasgar  peredur  vreisgwedd  .       Simon  vaughan 
iranscripsi  Banthori .  4367  ■  atatis  2i  .  eO  Aprilis, 

120  An  abbreviated  copy  of  Gr.  Roberts'  Welsh  Grammar,  printed 
at  Milan  in  1567.  A.s  no  perfect  copy  of  that  grammar  is  hiotcn, 
the  part  missing  at  the  beginning  is  transcribed  here : — 

Cyfiachydiaeth  ' 
Mo  .  Beth  yu  (jyfiachydiasth  ? 

Cyfiachydiseth  yu  rhann  o  ramade^  yn  dysgii  iachau  a  hanes  pob  gair  ar 
i  benn  i  hvn  heb  i  rodi  ymhlethiad   ymadro^,   ac   a   dengys   dreigl. 


THE  WELSH  GKAMMAR  OF  G.  ROBERTS.         4i3 

tadogaeth,  ausaud  a  ihif  y  geiriau,  a  pha  rann  o  madrod  a  fo  urth 

chuilo  'mgyfacliui'iasth  gair 

Mo.     Beth  syd  raid  i  styrio  urth  hynny  ynghylch  cyfiachuriseth  rie 

gyfiachydioeth  ?     yn  gyntaf  rhaid  yu  guybod  pa  rann  o  madrod  a  fo'r 

gair   cynn    edrych  am  dim  aral    syd  yn    perthynv    at  i  gyfiachuriaeth 

ef,  ac  am  hynny  mae'n  anghenrhaid  guybod  pe  saul  rhanu  o'  madrod 

y  syd 

Mo.     Doeduchithe  'n  enu  duu  pesaul  rhann  omadrod  y  syd  ?     Vyth  : 

nid  amgen,  Heuu,  Rhagheuu,  Berf,  Cyfranniad,  Rhagferf,  Cyssyltiad, 

Ardodiad  a  Thafiodiad. 

Mo.     Beth  yu  Heau  ?     Rhann  o'madrod  yn  aruydhau  peth  a  elir  i 

gloued,  i  ueled,  i  deimlo,  ue  i  deuhalt  heb  amrafael  amserau  cantho,  mal 

ty,  }au,  dyd,  lyfr,  guydyn  ne  guydn 

Mo.     Pe  saul  araryu  Henu  y  syd  ?    Dau,  un  a  eilu  rhai  heuu  cadarn, 

ac  a  elir   yn  da  i  alu  henu  syluedaul :     Canys  fo  saif  meun  ymadrod 

urtho  i  hvn  heb  gymhorthuy,  ag  a  fyd  urth  adeilad  ymadrod  megis 

sylfaen  i  gynnal  yr  henu  ar  daflodiad  .  vn  aral  syd  henu  guann,  am  nad 

eil  sefyl  oi  uerth  i  hvn  meun  pleth   ymadrod   heb  help  y  syluedaul 

imgynnal  virtho,  ag  ni  elir  yn  da  i  alu  ef  henu  i  ar  daflodiad,  ne  henu 

damueiniaul,  megis,  giiych,  teg,  hagr,  ar  cyphelib 

Mo.    pesaul  rhyuiogasth  heuu  syluedaul  y  syd?     Dau,  y  nail  y  syd 

gyphredin  ag  yn  yragyphred   amryu  bethau  tano,  mal  gur,  afon,   tref, 

gulad,  yr  henu  aral  priodol  ydiu  i  un  or  neiltu,  megis  y  mae  henii  bedyd 

pob  dyn,  mal  Dafyd  Morys,  Loixri,  a  phob  henu  neiltuaul  i  beth  vnig 

yn  y  byd,  mal  Dyfrdijy,  Arfon,  puleli,  Rhufain,  Men,  Guyned 

Mo.  pessaul   peth  a  damuain  i  henu  ?     Saith,  nid  amgen,  rhif,  achos, 

Cenedl,  treigliad,  phurf,  ansaud  a  Chymheiriad. 

Mo.  pesaul  rhif  y  syd?     ])au,  vnig   pann  sonnier  am  vn  peth   mal 

gur  ne  garreg.     Luosaug  pann  sonnier  am  fuy  nog  un  peth  fal  guyr, 

cerrig 

Mo.  pesaiilachos  ne  syrthiad  y  sy4  ?     Chuech,  nid  amgeu  henuedigaul, 

geuedigaul,   dodaul,  Cyhudaul,  galuedigaul  ag  abliaul  :  ond  nid  ydiu'r 

syrthiadiau  hynn  anghenrhaid  ir  iaith  gymraeg,  etto  ni  bydan   chuaith 

amliyrthynasol  i  cyf rif  gann  f od  pob  dunedur  cymraeg  yn  sou  am  ianynt. 

Mo.  Pessaul  Cenedl  ne  ryuogaeth  y  syd  i  henu  ?     Duy,  un  uruy  fal  gur. 

Angel,  tydyn  :  un  aral  iianyu  fal  merch,  buuch. 

Mo.  A  oes  phord  i  uybod  pa  genedl  fo  pob  heuu  ?     Vrth  vn  o  dau  fod 

y  gelir  adnabod  cenedl  lienu  cadarn,  [sef  yu]  (sic)   os  byd  gureidiol 

anuadal  ir  henu,  rhoder  rhaguas  yn  y  rhif  vnig  oi  flaen  ef,  ag  yna  os  byd 

guruy  y  ureidiol  ef  a  drig  ymhob  cyrchfa,  mal  tad  y  tad  ir  tad,  ar  tad, 

ond    OS  banyu  fyd  y  gair,  y   gyrchfa  gyntaf  a  saif  ymhob  le  ar  ol  y 

rhaguas,  mal  tonn    y  donn  &c.  (See  p.  7  of  Gr.  Roberts'  Grammar.) 

ends  :    Oni  chyfansodir  rhagheuu  ag/i/  pan  fo  hi  ardodiad  nn  amser? 

Cyfansodir  fal  hynn,   ira,  it,  in,  uuch,   idynt,  ag   a  dodir  /  i  /  fo,  ag,  uy 

attynt,  mal  imi,  iti,  ido  fo  /  i  mi,  i  chui,  i  dynhuy  .  ag  etto  megis  yn  y 

rhai  uchod,  i  minnau,  i  tithau,  i  chuithau,   i  dynbuythau,  pan  fo  /i/  yn 

diuaethaf,  hi  a  droir  ueithiau  yn  /y/  ag  a  deflir  yr  accen  ir  ail  diuaethaf 

mal  imi  ymy,  iti  ytty,  ag  a  dyblir  y  gydsain  mal  y  guelir  yn  y  rhain  : 

ymmy  yr  ydoed  mamaeth 

i  mi  mae  meibion  maeth  (p.  141)  (See  Gr.  Roberts'  Gram.,  p.  37.) 

144  Alhan  o  Lyiier  Achae  Tho.  ap  Un  ap  Jthel  : 

Ihyma  henwae'r  pedair  Caing  ar  dhec,  prifgeinci<e,  a  wnaeth 
Gwgon  a  Chyhelyn  o  waith  pob  vn  o  nadhunt  .  &c, 

145  Hymn  chive  siatnpl  o  ddyssyeideth  gwyr  doethion  a  fv  gynt  i 
gyngho[ri  dyn]  i  fedrv  ymgadw  Rheol  dda  yiv  gorff-  ai  enaid,  nid 
amgen  :  Saint  Awstin  a  ddov^aid  mae  kyifes  Ian  o  holl  bechode  yw 

K   2 


444  PENIARTH    MANUSCRIPT    62. 

dcchrav  pob  gweithred  dda  &c ends :   Y  chwechcd  peth  yvr 

iiiynych  laweiiychv  o  glowed  geiriav  dvw  ai  darllain,  fal  y  dowaiJ  sain 
^rvgor  yn  wir  megis  y  mae  bwyd  davarol  yn  porthi  felly  y  mac  geiriav 
<liiw  yn  porthi  yr  enaid  a  duw  a  ffyno  gen   bob  kristion  o  ddyn  ymaifer 
nnhw  ai  kadw  yn  i  galon  a  gwnetliyr  yn  i  hoi  nessa  a  geller     amen. 
148  J  -n-neuthnr  Ihedr  yn  velyn  .  geiniegwerth  o  Safron  &c. 


MS.  63  =  Hen.  309.  Poetry  by  Gr:  Gryg,  ^olo  Goch,  Tddyr 
Aled,  Gtjtto'r  Glynn,  Dd:  Nan.mor,  Griffith  Hiraethog,  Wiliam 
Kynwal  &c.  &c.  Paper  ;  6  X  4  inches ;  296  pagps— beginning 
wanting  and  at  least  one  leaf  at  the  end.  Pages  1-26  are  slightly  later 
than  pp.  33-296  which  are  attributed  to  William  Kynwal*  and  were 
written  about  1575. 

Page  27  ha."!  the  entry:   Ilevar  W».  glynn  ap  W™  glynn  ap  W'"  glynn  sersiaat  | 
jilstwn  mostyn  |  maesog  tegwared  |  tomas  ap  gr  ap  siankyn  ap  Rys  gwedir 

1      II  lliw  niwl  lie  mae  llawn  alaeth     ....  « 

yn  iach  hely  mwy  na  chael  medd.  Simwnt  Vychan 

3   /  Sion  wynn  ap  hadwaladr  i  ofyn  haseg 

T  Hew  gwar  oil  a  gerir     ....  b 

o  cheisiwch  wertli  chwe  chaseg  iniiam  Kynnioal 

7  Manenad  howel  ap  jBhys  o  rvg 

Dvw  gwyn  er  digio  ennyd     ....  c 

gwnaed  tvw  ag  enaid  howel  Tvdvr  Aled 

10  Y  maes  y  manbri :    Dans  o  bowls  doe  in  ysl)eiliwyd    ...      d 
Jarll  oi  fab  arail  a  fo  gvtto  r  glynn 

14       Y  dref  ar  hyd  yr  afon     ....  e 

Carnarvon  .  .  caer  Wiliam  .  .  Siambrlen    .     .     .a. 
dy  wr  ai  gwi?g  val  draig  wenn  Tvav)'  Aled 

Tmryson  rhxong  gvttor  glynn  a  houll  ap  dd  ap 
Jfan  ap  Rys  am  fynd  i  Raglan 
17       Ma6r  yw  dysg  yno  mae  .  r  .  da     .     .     .     .  f 

i  feni  yr  af  finav  Gvtto  r  glynn 

20       llhyfedd  ydiw  arfeddyd     ....  g 

o  daw  rag  hir  drigo  hwnn.       Hou'l  ap  dd  ap  Jfan  ap  R. 

-23  Mnr:  Rob:  ap  S.  ap  ithael:  Y  gwr  marw  e  gar  raorwyn  ...       /( 
dy  ddiben  yw  dydd  eb  nos  Tvdvr  Aled. 


27  llyma  Rime edd  y  fer fain  bwrw  hwynt  miawn  dwr  i  bo  pysgod  a 
liwynt  a  gasglant  yn  i  gylch.  Yr  ail  Einwedd  i\v  dyro  dan 

wraig  pen  ysteddo  ag  ni  ddichon  eiste  ar  y  Uysie  onid  morwyn  f  fank 
■ddifai  y  drydydd  Einwedd  iw  kymer  y  sygvn  ag  yf  a  thi  a  fyddi 
gyddiedig  heb  dy  weled  a  thi  a  weli  bob  dvn  oni  yfeoh  ddwr  hen- 
diged  .  Y  bedwaredd  Rinwedd  iw  o  dwg  dvm  yn  ladrad  miawn 
lynylleidfa  o  bobol  kymer  y  Uysio  a  tharo  bob  dvn  ar  i  ben  noeth  ar 
neb  a  fo  evog  a  gria  yn  vchel.  Y  bvmed  Rinwedd  iw  tyn  y  gwraiJd 
&  golch  miawn  dwr  fynon  oer  a  dyro  yr.  dy  enav  a  dyro  gysan  ir  neb 
a  fynech  a  hi  at  h  gar  yn  wir 

29       Scrwlian  kwynfan  mewn  kynfigeniaith  &c.  i 

*  If  Mostyn  MS.  Ill  is  an  autograpli  MS.,  which  is  at  least  highly  probable,  this 
MS.  can  not  have  been  -written  by  William  Cynwal. 


G.    HIRAETHOG,   W.    KYNWAL^   ETC.  445 

30  gwraig  sion  ysmyth  ann  V5  W™  gr.  ap  Kobt.  ap  edmwnd  gr.  or 
penrhyn  bodsilin  kwchwiilan  gwedir/ 

b.  sion  gr.  baeli  kaernarfo'n  aer  feiors  gr. 

c.  gwraig  sion  gr.  clnor  v}  inr.  moris  gr.  yr  aer 

31  koeg  ffritin  groflia  gravele  &c. 

6.  pen  enir  y  lloyr  boyn  anidn  osodied  &c. 

32  Kaernarfon—Vf'^  KSbeiser  fab  Robt.  fab  VV™  fab  Robt.  &c. 
b.  Mr  Thomas  Conway  y  nyled  iddo  &e. 

33  7  o/y"  main  melin  i  Sion  ap  li.  ap  Un  up  hwlkyn  o  von. 

Sir  von  wenn  os  rhifwn  w^r     ....  (f 

kair  pwyth  y  main  kair  petb  mwy  Gruff  hiraethoc 

39  Mar:  Sion  ap  R.  ap  Un  ap  hwlkyn  o  vodychen  ymon 

Ovewn  iraidd  vann  aravl     ....  It 

a  rroi  oes  hir  i  Rys  wynn  Gruff  hiraethoc 

44  Jofyn  main  melin  i  ddav  wr  o  dir  mon 

Y  ddevlew  di  eiddiliou     ....  c 
dra  i  male  yd  er  melin                                          „           „ 

Cywyddeu  by   Wiliam  Kynnwal 

50  Etio  i  dri :  Irqes  vrdJas  tros  y  werddon     ...  d 

ymon  ir  haelion  ai  rhoes  .  156()  .  fV.  kynnwal 

55  Etto  i  bedwar :  Sir  von  y  sydd  rrydd  iu  rraid     ....        e 
am  y  main  ir  rhain     yriiawc 

62  Mar:  m'  tomas  bwlklai  o  lann  livddliid 

Wedi  r  .  varn  i  droea  vawr     ....  £ 

i  aeres  hwn  roi  oes  hir  .  ISTO . 

67  Mol:  morvs  gr:  yr  aer  or  pins  neioydd  ymon 

bwy  a  choel  byw  a  chalon  ...  g^ 

niwed  vyth  i  Enaid  von         .  1569  ■ 

73  Mol:  dd:  ap  R.  ap  dd:  ap  gwilym  0  Iwydiarth  ymon 

Awa  a  cherdd  vwch  y  werddou     ....  h 

teyrn  myrdd  katerwen  mon         .  136g  .    Wiliam  kynnwal 

79  Mar:  Sibl  vj  syr  W'^  gr:  gwraig  owain  ap  huw  o  vodeon 

Oer  oedd  gynt  arwydd  a  gaid     ....  i 

a  gair  naf  i  gor  nelbedd         .   156c)  .         Wiliam  kynnwal 

85  Mar:  alis  vy  dd:  gwraig  lewys  ap  owain  o  von 

Y  modd  y  dervydd  meddyn     ....  k 
iaivn  fwy  elw  i  nef  Eilwaith         .  ISJI  .  Wiliam  kynnwal 

91   Mar:  am  R.  wynn  ap  Sion  ap  R.  0  vodychen  ymon 

bravddwyd  an  gwnai  yn  brvddach  / 

ai  ddoe  i  wledd  nawdd  lowydd  nef     .  1511 .  Wiliam  hymiwal 

98  Mar:   Owain  ap  Mevryc  ap  Un:  ap  hwlkyn  o  von 
Mae  gwae  in  o  magwn  w^r 
poed  ar  rann  pedr  i  Euaid 

Mol:  m'  mevryc  o'dir  mon  j 
102       Son  am  wr  hael  syn  y  mryd 
gair  Siob  Ian  gorsibol  wyd 

108  ^r  seren  a  weled  vwch  ben  sir 
ganed  mam  owen  tvdvr 
Am  i  Uiw  y  mae  llawer     . 
ac  arfer  chwedl  a  gorfod 


lewis  daroii 

m 

.     .     . 

Sion  brwyncc 

n 

von 

y  nos 

y 

'Gr: 

■  llwyd 

ap 

dd:  ap  Einion 

0. 

446  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   63. 

113  y  veil   0.  tvdvr  ap  vier:  ap  t' v  o  benmynydd  mon 

Y  ddevwr  ai-glwyddiaidd     ....  a 
i  gadw  aelwj'd  Gadwaladr                           davudd  nannmor 

118  Mar:  Rydderch  ap  R.  o  dref  (jayan  ymon 

draen  y  Roed  dvwy  anRydedd     .     .     .     ,  b 

dregayan  yn  dragywydd  Sion  hrwynoc 

123  Moh  Rydderch  ap  R.  ai  wraic  /  tregayan 

Y  ddevddyn  o  ddyweddi     ,     ,     .     .  c 
hwii  eb  wad  a  bono  byth                                     „             „ 

127  Mar:  gr:  llwyd  ap  Rydderch  ap  R.  o  clre  gayan 

Gwae  ni  ddar  gwynedd  arab     ....  d 

llwyd  nvdd  yn  Haw  dvw  o  nef  davudd  alaw 

132  Mol:  hCne  ap  R.  ap  hoi:  ap  R.  o  vysoglen  ymon 

Y  karw  ini  oes  y  kair  medd     ....  e 
yti  einioes  hyd  henaint                                               „         „ 

138  Mar:  hoi:  ap  Un  o  von  ai  loraic  tnallt  v}  R. 

Y  ddevddyn  a  ddiweddwyd     ....  / 
heb  waunhav  meibion  howel                             Rys  Pennard 

143  Mar:  Rys  ap  tvdvr  o  von 

Tcbic  yw  gwynedd  meddir     ....  g 

evrfawl  \ov  wra  val  ef  Gruff:  gryc 

\4:T  f  ^  mah  tvdvr  llwyd  a  benmynydd  mon — Gronwy,  Rys, 
Ednyved,  gwilym.  See  MS.  64,  p.  20. 

Mynd  yr  wyf  i  dir  mon  di-aw     ....  /* 

tref  gwovon  tra  vwy  vyw  Jolo  goch 

153  Mar:  mj'erfydd  ap  kynwric  o  von 

doe  yngod  Rwng  dwy  angor     ....  i 

gwae  ni  marw  haelioni  mon  .  Rys  goch  or  yri 

Mol:  Wm:  vychan  or  penrryn  (pp-  157-170). 
157       Mynydd  yr  havl  mae  n  dda  Rawc     ....  k 

onid  vn  a  dav  wyneb  lewis  mon 

1G2       Y  gwr  ai  dy  ar  garrec     ....  / 

pen  kenedl  pen  aic  kwynedd  Gvtto  .  r  .  glynn 

166       Gwjch  \V///«m  ac  vcbelwaed     ....  m 

Eryr  evraid  yr  yri  Jiynwric  ap  dd.  go} 

171   Mar:  gwilym  ap  gr:  [or']  penRyn 

Ead  elfydd  ar  y  dalfaink     ....  n 

gwawd  1  wilym  i  gedir  (1-  34)  || 

175  llys  da  di-w  mon  lies  dvd  niaAvl     ....  o 
onis  gwna  dvw  nis  gwna  dyn                       Rys  goch  or  yri 

176  J  wilym  ap  gr:  Twr  dan  vaner  yr  eryr     ....  p 

1  glos  dvw  nac  i  lys  dyn  „  „ 

183  Mar:  Gwilym  o  benmynydd  y  mon 

Ro  dvw  .  r  .  galon  ddicllon  bwyll     ....  q 

wrtb  vyngwawr  dvw  raawr  amen  gwilym,  ap  Sefnyn 

189  Mol:  gicilym  ap  gr:  ai  vab  Wm:  vychan 

Ro  dvw  BenRyn  vreisglyn  vi'ys     ....  .  r 

ft  geidw  vrenbinawl  gadair  „  „ 

193  f  ofyn  ap  gann  S.moel :  doed  wyr  mens  ar  deid  ir  mor  .  .       s 
dial  i  gnwk  diawl  ai  gwuaeth  Robert  leiaf 


G,   HIRAETHOG,   W.  KYNWAL,   ETC.  447 

197  J  ofyti  pademv  gann  Mr.  Eicart  deon  hangar 

Mae  vn  keidwad  mewn  kadair  a 

ymankor  hwnt  val  maen  krair     ,     .    .     • 

modfeddav  mevdwy  fyddaf  gvtto  .  r  .  glynn 

201  Mar:  am  Wm:  ap  gr:  ap  tomss,  o  vangor 

Am  Wiliam  y  mae  wylaw     ....  l> 

i  dy  ddvw  wedi  i  ddiwedd         .  ISJO  .     Wiliam  kynnwal 

206  Mol:  fomas  wynn  ap  Wni:  o  dreborth  ymangor 

Rodri  mawr  Ry\7  derm  jrwych     ....  c 

hwn  a  hon  a  vo  hynach         -  1312  ,  „         „ 

212  Mol:  sion  ap  M.  wynn  o  lann  beris  yn  yr  yri 

Son  am  ifor  senw  i  mofyn     ....  d 

hon  a  chwi  bo  hen  ych  oes         ,  ^572  .  JF,  hynnwal 

218  ^  ofyn  geifr  i  wyr  llah  beris 

Y  Uv  gw$>r  oil  a  gerir    ....  c 
i  bawb  wiw  gerdd  am  bob  gafr         .  1511  .     „         ,, 

224  jf  yrrv  y  bi  i  annerch  syr  niklas  bagnol  ai  arglwyddes 

Y  bi  vraith  ni  wna  i  neb  vrad     ,     .     .     .  / 
ail  Eodd  yvv  eii'iol  Rwyddynt        .  1512  .          W.  kynnwal 

230  J  ofyn  kasec  gan  Sion  wynn  ap  hiao  bodvel  o  leyn  , 

Mae  vn  a  cliorff  mwy  na  chawr     ....  g 

karw  tra  ffyrf  kair  tri  oi  ffwyth       .  ^572  ,  W.  kynnwal 

234  Jbriodas  Eic:  Gr:  o  lyn         ,1362  . 

Amsev  bvm  ais  oer  eb  wedd     ....  h 

dvU  hyddawn  dvw  ai  llwyddo  gruff":  hiraethog 

239  Mar:  S.  ap  E.  wynn  ap  dd:  ap  siankyn  o  lyn         .  1S3S  , 

Y  vhvyddyn  oer  vel  iddi     ....  i 
a  bro  saint  i  vab  Rys  wynn                         grtiff:  hiraethoc 

245  J  dd:  ap  siankyn  pann  oedd  efyngarrec  y  walch 

Kann  nos  daed  kyiies  dadail     .     ,     ,     .  h 

wyth  goed  a  dvw  ath  geidw  di  Tvdvr  penllyn 

249  Mar:  mows  ^eii&n  ofionydd         ,  1363  . 

Oeres  vonwes  yfionydd     ....  / 

maddeved  gadarned  oedd  gruff':  hiraethoc 

254  J  !^  maib  E.  ap  hoi:  ap  madoc  o  yfionvdd 

Mae  brie  o  bendeflc  dv     .     .     .     .  m 

pedr  hael  ar  y  pedwar  hynn  Howel  gethin  o  gelynnoc 

258  3Iar:  Eys,  ap  ho\Yel  ap  madoc 

Eivionydd  a  fv  ennyd     ....  n 

yna  ai  vrawd  a  nef  i  Rys  Eys  pennardd 

Mol:  jeiian  ap  einion 

262       Pwy  sy  o  rym  pasio  r  iaitli     ....  o 

saf  itb  garn  sy  vyw  ath  gar  Jolo  goch 

267       ]fvan  ddewr  o  vevra  i  ddawn     ....  « 

yn  gadernyd  yw  byd  byth  jfevan  waed  da 

271  I  syi  ho:  yvwyall  ynghastell  hrihiaith 

A  welai  neb  a  v^^elaf     ....  n 

a  chadw  /  r  /  gaer  jechyd  ]r  gwr  jfolo  goch 

276  Mol:  Wm:  ap  Wm:  ap  gr:  ap  Eohyn  o  gwchwillan 

Af  i  wyuedd  i  vyny     ....  j- 

Wiliam  ap  Wiliam  y  boch  gruff:  hiraethoc 


448  PE.SIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT  63. 

282  Mol:  owain  up  Reinallt  o  lyn  llvgicr  .  13'12  . 

bardd  wyf  a  gwawd  beraidd  dda     ....  a 

gsvaed  tvw  a,  g.itwo  owain  W.  kynnwal. 

287  Mar:  Elin  lloyd  ^rwraig  S.  wyn  ap  mred.  o  loedir  .  15T2  . 

Os  mawr  oedd  is  y  mvr  ja     .     .     .     .  b 

aeth  bwnnw  yyth  ^i  Ijenaid  fV.  kynnwal 

293  Mol:  i  sion  gr:vychan  hefn  amlwch 

ba  ryw  dir  y  bwria  daith     ....  c 

kadwed  gion  keidwad  y  sir  Mm-vs  dwyvech 

298.  "  llyvr  kywddc  ag  ynddo  gowydd  o  wayth  pob  prydydd  a  fv  yng  hymrv 
er  ys  driehant  o  flynyddoydd." 

6.  "  Ym  ha  le  y  mae'r  Llyfr  .  .  ?     Nid  oes  yn  hwn  mou  degwm  D.  E[llis]." 


MS,  64  =  Hen.  130.  POE-rttY  by  Simwnt  Vychan,  ^olo  Goch, 
L.  Glynn  Cothi,  D.  ap  Edmwnt,  Tddyr  Penllyn  &c.  and  Pedigrees. 
Paper ;  6  X  4  inches  ;  292  pages  ;  in  Ihe  autograph  of  Simwnt  Vychan 
and  subsequent  tol5?7  {p.  197)  ;  much  discoloured,  some  leaves  loose, 
some  wanting,  and  many  slightly  imperfect  at  the  end ;  in  a  case. 

1-8  Index  of  authors  and  first  lines. 
9  Mar:  kairin  mathav  o  radvr 

Morgannwc  y  mric  j'nys     ....  d 

Math  mam  davydd  mathav  mwy  Lewis  Jfotii 

13  /  ywain  glynn  dyjyrdwy :  Myvyrio  bvm  i  varwn    ...       e 
Ac  vnllaw  yw  i  gynUaith  ^olo  goj 

10  Mar:  Tvdvr  vychan :  Kl^wais  doe  im  klvst  deav  ...  / 

Na  liayer  mwy  ynhii-  mon  „      „ 

19  Pedigree  of  Ho'l  vychan  ap  dd.  llwyd  ap  dd.  ^euan  vychan  <$c 

20  Mynd  yr  wyf  i  dir  mon  draw     ....  g 
Tariaf  i  von  tra  vwyf  vyw  .    See  MS.  63,  p.  147.      jfolo  goj, 

24       Howel  wyd  vyw  hael  hyd  vedd  h 

Hil  einiou  hael  o  wynedd     .... 
Trevlia  .  r  .  wise  tvwy  lawer  oes        feuan  llwyd  brydydd 

28       Y  lloer  hael  a  lliw  .  r  .  heli     ....  4 

Am  oer  gvrio  //  A  mawr  gariad  Gvtyn  ywain 

32  The  daughters  of  syr  gruff:  llwyd  (o  gayo)  and  their 
husbands.  Uevkv  =  dd.  voiigam  ;  ssissli  =  Robt.  klement ;  Krisli  = 
syr  gei ;  Deili  =  Ma3.  Kloddeith  ;  (3twenllian  =  Kadwgau  ap  hoi ; 
Phelipa  =  syr  hvw  o  ryd;  Elsabelh  =  atjr  dd:  dwnn. 

33       Y  groc  erchwynioc  ehwenaw  //  or  moroedd     ....        k 
y  groc  ir  dryssor  graic  avr  drwssiad  Dd:  ap  Howel 

36       ]f  vair  orav  //  Af  yr  owronn     ....  / 

in  trwu  ninnav  //  yn  troi  .  n  .  vnion  .  „  „ 

38       Oessbraff  wyd  ^essv  ysbryd  //  gwiw  ddovydd     ....»« 
da  vv  i  ssiosseb  dy  vyw  ssiessvs  "  amnvybod  ym  " 

40  Hevlwawr  hy  olav :  hoywlwys  win  heilias  &c.    S.  vychan  n 

41  O  gwnevthy'm  er  gwraic  neithwyr     ....  o 
yno  .  dd .  af  vinav  ddavydd                            dd  ap  Edmwnt 

44       Eirchiad  wyf  archiad  *vydd     ....  p 

yn  arwydd  at  wen  or  ddol  ;  dd  nanmor 


POETRY  AND   PEDIGREES.  449 

46       ILevad  ebrill  lliw  dybryJ     ....  a 

llevad  vai  llywia  dy  vardd  GruffyM  gryc 

52  Mar:  Roland  gr: — Pa  Avledydd  hub  havl  ydynt  ....  b 

yn  vrevlan  uef  i  rolant  Simicnt  vijchan 

57       Heddyw  lie  kawn  wahoddion     ....  « 

bedair  oes  heb  ado  .  v     vn  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 

61  Mol:  Tvdvr  ap  Rob: — Trie  enw  i  vn  tarw  gann  oes  .  .  .        d 
dvdvr  hael  a  daed  y  rrydd  Simwnt  vychan 

OG       Er  gwisgo  .r.  amdo  oer  wedd // am  danaf  &c.  Anon,  e 

h.       devdwyll  oi  kymwyll  kamav  //.a  -wuaethost  &c.  ,>      ./ 

c.       drwy  .  r  .  galonn  vriw  ssion  verr  oessawc  //  dravael  &c.    ,,       g 

07       O  irwaed  eiuion  avr  adenydd     ....  k 

vn  tvdvr  ydyw  yntav  n  drydydd  „ 

b.  Oes  ffyrdd  yvf  lys  hyfEordd  liossydd  &c.  „       t 

c.  Tvdvr  o  genedl  tewdwr  gwiawydd     ....  k 
«c  oni  edir  gwall  aaedwydd     ....            G         h 

G8       iach  o  lin  fferf  wychlawn  ffrwyth     ....  / 

a  heuwi  dd  wyf  hynn  a  ddel  S.  brwynoc 

b.       wyr  Rodpert  krair  purwaed  kred  &c.  G         h         m 

69       Meddylio  ddwyf  pa  nwyfiant     ....  h 

A  gwir  ddychan  vydd  rran  rrai  .       j^eu:  v'  ap  J.  ap  adda 

73       Gwaeddai  ymhell  gwyddom  hynn  o 

mawr  yw  kwyn  .  .  Am  robart  .  .  ap  gr:  .  .  . 
y\v  ty  robert  orevbarch  Simwnt  vychan 

77  _7  ''.!/*  '^P  J^^'  ^P  '"'y^  •  ^  kellweirwr  kail  hirwynn  ....        p 
dros  yr  arf  deiroes  i  rys  Simwnt  vychan 

81  Jsyv  Jo:  llwyd  o  L.  veivais  :  Y  karw  eglwyssic  hirwynn  .  .     q 
Abl  yw  hynn  eb  law  henaint  Gruff:  hiraelhoe 

84  Pedigrees  :    (a)  Eis  ap  Edw:  ap  phylip  &c. 

(6)  Owaia  voel  //  Einion  ddistain  &c. 

85  Gwaith  aun  orfienn  ssydd  gennyf     ....  r 
kel  vvn  tra  kelvvyf  vinnav                               dd:  ap  Gwilym 

88  Gawen  (gwdmon)  ap  Ed.  ap  the:  ap  Ed.  ap  ).  go}  o  L.  dyrnoc 

b.  Gawen  ap  Ed.  ap  Mali  V3  gruff:  ap  deio  &c. 

c.  dd  llwyd  ap  Mered:  ap  Itn  ap  gruff:  &c. 

d.  Eobert  wynu  ap  Kobt:  ap  sr:  ap  Kys  &c. 

69  J  ddihevraw  athrodwa[wd^  ar  henri  ap  gwilym  i  wrt/i 
Wm:  Herbart  iarll  penvro 
^essv  gwynn  i  wisgo  i  art     ....  s 

maent  hwy  /  n  /  waeth  mae  ynlav  /  n  /  well      lewys  Glyn 

92       Oes  dir  i.veirdd  ystor  vaith     ....  t 

Ebron  yw  dol.obran  dec     .... 
He  trie  dd:  llwyd  .  .  .  ap  Jevan     .... 
Enaid  dynion  find  henaint  Simwnt  vychan 

96  A  Genealogical  tree  of  the  descendants  of  SyrWiliam  Ystanlai 
and  Margred  hwtwu 

07  7  Wm :  ap  gronwy  ap  ll'n  :    Y  Gwr  ir  a  gair  urien  ...        m 
da  tynno  dvw.yt  einioes  Lewys  ap  Ed. 


450  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   64. 

100  Pedigrees  :  Penllyn  llann  ddervel — Grruff:  Uwyd  ap  ^euan 
ap  tvdr  &e. 

102  llann  evrgain  :  Plant  harri  ap  dd:  ap  gruff:  ap  dd:  ap  ithel 
vachan  .  &c. 

104  llyma  val  y  dyweddiwyd  merclied  bleddyn  vychan  ap  bleddyn 
ap  gwion  &c. 

105  Anodd  ym  vn  hawdd  ddamawr     ....  a 
Petwn  y  mynnwnn  y  mod                                         Jolo  go-^ 

108  Pedigree:  Plant  Rie:  ywain  gredivael — Ric:  wynZ/dd. 
Lvw  //  ssiasbar  a  ^ohn — o  verched  pump  . 

6.      Mae  n  dy  lys  mewn  adailwrdd  &c.  b 

c.      Pann  aeth  yr  hael  pennaeth  rrydd  &c.  c 

109       Eryr  gwyllt  oror  a  gar     ....  d 

par  oes  addaf  prys  iddaw  Simwnt  vychan 

113  Mar:  mred:  ap  gronwy :  Duw  un  a  thri  di  weiniaith   ...     .  e 
Meredydd  ymharadwys  Simwnt  vachan 

116  The  pedigree  of  Tvdvr  aled  ap  Eobt.  ap  Jthel  ap  U'n  chwith 
[ap  gr.  ap  dd.  diullaes  p.  121]  . 

117  O  bae  un  heb  i  enaid     ....  / 
Aed  Rissiart  [trevor]  at  yr  ^essv                Simwnt  vychan 

121  Hn  ap  ^euau  wynn  ap  einion  ap  ^euan  ap  gr  ap  dd.  dinllaes  &c. 

122  Meddylio  /  r  /  wyf  mav  ddolvr     ....  g 
a  thro  tra  vynnych  a  thric      imperfect         Gr:  ap  Kyn:  koy 

126  merched  bowel  ap  ]fankyn  ap  Jer:  Elizabeth  <fee. 

h.      Dav  wyneb  mewn  ty  nid  da  /  dan  gwkwll  &c.  h 

c.      na  wna  ddav  wyneb  i  neb// yn  vnlle  &e.    mestr  sion  Mad:       i 

127  Pedigrees :  Plant  Jfchel  ap  Jer:  ap  Einion:  Eydderch  <fcc. 
b.  Plant  iviliam  ap  Jankyn  :  katrin  &c. 

128  llan7i  ssanan — Pennant  aled :  Plant  Mered:  ap  ^eu:  ap  Jeu: 
ap  grono  ssais  ap  Jer:  ap  Hn  ap  bleddyn  llwyd  <fcc. 

129  llann  ssanan — yplas  .  Robt.  /  Wiliam  /  tomas  /  a  dd.  meibion 
Mered:  ap  grono  ap  gr:  gethin  ap  dd.  llwyd  &c. 

130  llygadoc  :  plant  howeX  ap  gr:  ap  feuan  llwyd — syv  bened  &c. 

b.  Plant  John  ap  bowel — Jeuan  &c. 

c.  Robin  sseri  yr  hwrin  a  elwid  Robert  ap  Mere.aydd  &e. 

131  Mar:  Edicart  ap  John  wynn  o  lann  ddervel 

ILevain  drvd  Hit  noe  a  dric     ....  k 

at  dvw  Edward  da  ydoedd  Simwnt  vychan 

13.5  Mar:  Ediv:  llivyd  o  ial 

Doe  I  V  I  oedd  gri  diwreiddaw  grym     ....  I 

dvw  hvyd  a  dal  i  TAwai-d  „  „ 

139       Kann  nos  daed  kynnes  dadail     ....  m 

davydd  wyr  ddavydd  if  or     .... 
dy  gastell  ydyw  /r/  gelli 
devw  dol  yw  dy  dyrav  di     ,     .     .     . 
wyth  goed  a  dvw  ath  geidw  di  Tiidur  Pennllynn 

142  Eobart  tyrbryts  vab  katrin  V3  dd.  llwyd  &c. 

143  J  Birs  ssalbri  0  vachynbyd :  Piau  pennod  2>ob   bonedd  ...» 

Haw  ddvw  dros  vy  Hew  o  ddyn  hvio  ap  dd;    \ 


POETEY   BY   VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  451 

147       Gwae  vi  om  geui  jvj  awr  im  ganed  /  ddvw     ....      a 
od  aeth  rrys  oi  glaerllys  gled     .... 
Gwae  vi  j  leni  vlined  //  i  goUi  dd:  nanmor 

160  Syrr  davydd  ehedydd  hawl     ....  h 
henw  mawr  yun  wyd  lianmer  naf 

Eirian  berflaith  gyt'reithiwr     .... 

A  dvw  ar  ai  gadawo  Gr:  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  einion 

153       Mae  keidwad  in  gwlad  an  gwledd     ....  c 

ssieffrai  kyfRn  or  dinas     .... 
A  ffwyth  honn  ai  ffeithynav  Gvto  or  glynn 

157       Oes  glendyd  nes  galw  vndyn     ....  d 

herbart  hir  bai  raid  harri 
dalied  oil  ar  dy  law  di  tetrys  MorganntVG 

161  Ni  chair  vstvs  na  christiawu  e 
vry  i  nef  ond  a  varn  iawn     .... 

syr  ssion  bwrch  idwal  iwrch  lin 

sswyddawc  breiniawc  ir  breniu     .... 

dyio  i  ssion  deiroes  hydd  Gvto  or  glyn 

163       Mae  im  kefn  es  pythefnos  / 

henwayw  ni  ad  hvn  y  nos     .... 
meddic  ond  arglwydd  mowddwy  „         „ 

167       Sorri  ddvw  /n/  pennssaer  ydd  wyd  ;/ 

Saith  o  gloddaith  a  gladdwyd     .... 
vn  blaid  nef  vo  /n/  blodav  ni  Robyn  ddv 

170       Y  maes  grymvssa  o  gred     ....  h 

Y  manbri  y  bv  r  di.il 
Ar  gymry  dec  a  mawr  dal     .... 
dvw  eilwaith  ai  dialo  Lewys  Glynn  hotlii 

173       Y  Gvvr  ssy  tan  gorssed  dvr     ....  i 

lioes  Lap  a  ssir  Rys  ap  Sion     .... 
does  gwr  march  dewisgarw  main  hvw  ap  dd: 

176       Y  ddevrvs  oedd  ddiareb     ....  k 

Aer  y  tywyn  /  or  tvedd 
Ar  Elain  avr  /  o  lynn  nedd     .... 
Rys  orav  Rys  /  eryr  hael  Hvk  ap  dd: 

180  Pedigree  of  Syr  John  wgon  o  wistwn  ap  syr  ^ohn  wgon  ap 
Mastr  John  wgon.hir  ap  syr  harri  wgon  &c. 

b.  Arvav  ayr  Joha  wgon — Mae  yn  dwyn  yn  gwarteroc  &c. 

181  Dyrwest  wylavv  drist  alaeth     ....  / 
dwyn  Robert  ....  vab  reinallt     .... 

kytvn  y  katwo  .  i .  enaid  Gr:  Hiraethoc 

185  Manonad  Tomas  ap  Rys  wynn  i5S2  . 

Blwyddyn  oer  i  ble  ddawn  ni     .     .     ,     .  tn 

Eb  aer  oi  gorff  bvra  gwr      (I.  68) |i 
197  Mar:  Harri  Aesbwl :  Duw  nef  sydd  yn  dwyn  i  wyr  ...      u 

tiriou  wrth  enaid  Harri  .  1S7T  .  Simwn  vachan 

201       Y  Sirif  aeth  a  ssir  von  o 

Sy  hvw  lewys  o  liwon     .... 

o  gayo  .  i  .  von  a  gai  varch  Jeiian  devlwyn 

204       gorav  iach  a  gair  i  wyr  w 

gronwy  ac  o  ryw  ynyr     .... 

.  .  .  .  ar  mab  no  banner  mon  (1-  1C)||     .     .     .     ■ 


452  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   64. 

205  Mar:  S.  Edio:  o  Lys  Vassi :  Oer  ydy w  Rew  ar  hyd  Ros  ...      a 
oer  gloi  /ii/  dynn  ur  ryw  glynndwr     .... 
gar  bronn  vo/r/  gwirbvr  enaid  Simwnt  vyclian 

209  Mar:  Sion  gr : — Duw  a  roe  gwymp  lie  doe  /r/  gwin  ...      h 

Kaerwys  ssydd  yn  kav  ar  Sion     .... 

E at  ifessv  aeth  Simwnt  vychani 

213       O  ddvw  tec  ai  ddayed  dyn  c 

A  welai  neb  lywelyn 

Atahevric  vonhedic  hen     .... 

Prydydd  y  mhorth  paradwys  Jolo  goch 

216  Dyro  gardod  oth  dda  .  ac  no  thro  dy  wyneb  &c.  d 

217  Mi  awn  draw  rayned  yr  [wyf]     ....  e 
J  dir  mon  ar  dorr  menai 

dros  y  traetb  ond  arcs  trai     .... 

Eiaioes  vawr  yn  ynys  von  Sys  goch  glynn  dyfrdwy 

220   Mar:  Mred:  ap  tvdvr  ap  Ho: 

Dyn  wyf  vi  /n/  dylyn  vn  vann     ....  f 

yn  Uys  dvw  mae  /n/  well  i  stad  Tvdvr  Pennllynn 

222  Y  ty  ni  ffy  oddiar  ffordd     ....  rj 
Iwyr  a  rrwng  lowri  a  Rys                                „              „ 

223  Y  dderwen  ddoe  o  wryd  /* 
Sy  /n/  kav  ar  wybodav  /r/  byd     .... 

Nevadd  wyt  i  uvdd  evtvn 

Sion  nid  oes  drws  onid  vn     .     .     .     . 

El  yw  enaid  olevni  Gutyn  oiceit 

227  Gwikivair :  wiliam  ap  gruff:  ap  grono  ap  Itn  &c. 

b.    regestr  y  vaenol :  John  llwyd  ap  dd.  llwyd  ap  Rys  &c. 

228  llatm  dyrnoc :  Robert  wynn  ap  John  ap  Simwnt  &c. 

b.  ystrad  alvn  :  Jthel  ap  Eobt.  ap  Elis  ap  gr:  ap  Jaiikjn  &c. 

c.  hafod  y  bwch  :  John  ap  Rob:  ap  dd:  ap  gr:  ap  dd:  ap  y  badi  &C-. 

229  Aber  gele  :  Me;'ed;  llwyd  ap  John  ap  hvw  ap  edn:  &c. 
b.    tegaingl  tre  jrj  abad :  John  ap  dd:  ap  bened  ap  dd:  &c. 

230  is  gwrvai :  thoQias  ap  Ric:  ap  wiliam  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &c. 

b.    bedd  kelert :  wiliam  ap  Morvs  gethin  ap  Jeuan  ap  Rys  &c. 

231  ILwyddiant  a  ffyniant  ymddiffyn[wr  ...  .J     ...     .         i 
Gwin  bastart  Herbart  am  tynn  //  cm  go^'al     .... 
kamplid  iach  am  kwymp  liw  dydd     .... 

y  gwin  i  went  a  gawn  ni  hovrel  sowrdical 

233       Ni  a  gawn  vn  gair  |  gan  vab  yn  gwenn  vair     .     .     .     .    k 
Herbart  ssynnhwyrbell  |  A  geidw  bro  gadell     .... 
Edwart  ail  evdaf  |  Ac  wiliam  galwaf 
i  chwi  hoedl  addaf  //  A  chyd  Iwyddiant        JIo:  ssowrdieal 

236       Davydd  nid  vn  gynnydd  neb  t 

llwyd  ....  [ap]  gruff:  devddwr     .... 
o  chair  rroi  oes  i  chwi  rrawc  Ch-:  nannav 

238  The  arms  of  "  Grae  o  bywys  •' 

239  Y  gwr  val  gei  o  warwic     ....  m. 
gruffydd  penrryn  ffortyn  ffwc     .... 

Mab  llewelyn  erchwyn  yw     .     .     .     . 

Eled  avr  ar  i  liw  dv  Howel  Kilan 

242  Kroes  osswallt :  John  ap  Ed:  ap  Me?-ed:  ap  Hotcel  &c. 
b.    llann  gathcn :    Mastr  Rys  thomas  ap  syr  wiliam  tomas 
marcjioc  ap  tomas  ap  Rydderch  &c. 


POETRY   AND   PEDIGREES.  453 

■2-13       Davj-dd  lywiawdr  dydd  devddwr  « 

llwyd  ....  vab  gnilFvdd     .... 
insseilied  ©inioes  Elen  dd:  ap  Mred:  ap  tvdr 

246  3Iar:  Gruffy'dd  o  Ddevddwr  Y  mechain 

Diliw  mhell  gwae  dalra  o  hynn     ....  b 

A  nodded  krist  y  ne%'ddwr 

nieibion  ac  wyrion  y  gwr  dd.  ap   Gwilkws 

249       Yr  eogwas  or  eigiawn     ....  c 

At  wenn  dots  etc  \nwaith     .... 
Ai  meddylio  gado  i  gwr  Jeunn  tew  hrydydd 

"252       Arglwydd  dvw  kvlwydd  yw  keli  arglwydd     ....         d 
Chwi  y  ssydd  gorvwch  y  sser  (1.  72)  || 

255       Mae  digon  o  sson  gan  ssais  e 

A.ni  rolant  abev  marlais     .... 
Nessa  i  ladd  hen  syj-  rys  Lewys  glynn  Kothi 

258       Pwy  y<fr  adar  gwar  llwch  gwin     ....  / 

Ni  wnel  mair  a  chynvelynn 
leihav  rrif  y  milwyr  hynn  „  „ 

261       Mae  vn  val  liari  monwy     ....  // 

Teiroes  rroed  duw  i  harri  „  ., 

265    Y  bwhach  :  syr  dd:  barr  onnwydd  brav     ....  h 

vchod  wythoes  vych  dithav  „  „ 

268       Tri  llv  a  aeth  trwy  hell  iaith     .     ,     .     .  i 

llv  davydd  trydydd  or  tri 
draw  /n/  dyvod  drwy  hen  deivi     .     .     . 
Eto  i  rai  a  vo  trwm  „  „ 

272       "jI^tU  hir  vo]  .r.  Hew  o  vrien     ....  k 

'Ka,  dim  mwy  ond  am  ywain  „  „ 

275       Pa  wyr  yw  byw  piav  .  r  .  bel  / 

pwy  .  r .  chwech  yn  dwyn  parch  .... 
chwe  Hew  o  ssion  chwe  Uesshad  .... 
chwe  tborch  avr  ir  chwe  tharw  cayr  Siunvut  vychan 

280  Pedigree  :  ||ap  gruff:  ap  Mad:  vychan  ap  ho'I  vychan  &c. 

b.    Mam  Ywaiu  ap  griiff:  ap  Mad.  a  rrys  wynn  i  vrawd  oedd  llevkv 
V3  Kys  ap  einion  vychan  &c. 

281  Mam  Mad:  vychan  oedd  Katrin  v}  Robin  llwyd  Ac. 

282  Mam  'John  wynn  ywain    Elsbeth  v}  tvdvr  ap  ^euan  &c. 

b.    Gwraic  John  wynn  ywain   Elin  v}  pirs  vychan  ap  Kys  &c. 

283  Mam  Elin  #*#### 

i.    Mara  pirs  vychan   Margred  v}  John  aer  o  konwy  &c. 

284  John  wynn  ywain  ap  gr:  ap  Madoc  vychan  o  Jarddas  &e. 
f).    f  wraic  ei  Elin  Koedmor  V5  pirs  ap  rrys  iarddwr  &c. 

285  Dydd  ar  vae  ******** 

Ai  /n/  harddlech  min  hyrddwlych  mor  m 

Och  wyr  mae/r/  ddav  garcharor     .... 

Henri  .  .      mab  gwilym  ....  [ag]  ywain  .  .  .  , 

or  graic  vawr  y  mor  groec  vo  Jeuan  teio  brydydd 

288       Ofn  vydd  rrac  prif  avon  vawr     ....  a 

annwiw  sswydd  yna  soddir  (4  lines  only).  Anon 


4:5i  PEXIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   64. 

289       Pwy  0  wreiddio  n#*#####* 
Pvrion  dawn  pwy  a  vanu  dysc 
Bi/r  Robart  ....  llann  vwroc     .... 
ssynwyr  yr  holl  berssoniaid     .     .     .     i 
Na  cherdd  ond  yr  einywcli  chwi  hvw  ap  dd: 


MS.  65*  =  Hen.  358.  The  Oration  of  Gwgan  and  Poetry  in  the 
form  of  Interludes.  Paper ;  5^  x  3^  inches ;  354  pages ;  well  written, 
mostly  in  imitation  of  the  Italic  type  of  the  end  of  the  xvith  century 
(the  date  of  the  MS.),  by  one  Owen  John  (p.  15)  ;  discoloured  bat 
legible  throughout ;  half  bound  in  leather. 

From  tbe  Sebright  Collection.  Pages  258,  342-4,  352  are  blank.  "  William 
Hughes  his  booke  |  Walter  Thomas  but  it  is  non  of  Walter  "  (p.  341). 

1  Fayit  oedd  Dafudd  ap  Owain  Gwynedd  yn  Gwynedd  yr  hwn 
oedd  Dywysog  Gwynedd  A  rys  ap  tewdwr  viawr  Tywysog  y  dinefwr 
a  hwn  oedd  dywysog  yn  y  deybarth  oil:  yn  yr  amser  hwnw  o 
hapi[ay  y  wr]  o  wynedd  wne[thyr]  yn  [erbyn]  kyfrayth  yngwynedd 
efe  y  ddiangay  y  dalayth  y  dinefwr  ac  yno  efo  y  gai  y  gadw  [val] 
gwr  bonheddig  yu  barchadwy  yn  erbyn  kyfrayth  talaith  mathr[a]fael 
ymhowys  athalaith  aberfraw  ymon. 

Ac  yn  yr  vn  modd  o  hap  lay  y  wr  o  ddeheybarth  wnethyr  yn  erbyn 
kyfrayth  talaith  y  dinefwr  ac   o  diangai  y  wynedd  yn  yr  vn  modd  y 

gwneid   am  dan  aw : ends :    ac  efo  gafodd  wgan  lyther  dan 

sel  y  gael  kredigrwydd  dafydd  ab  owain  gwynedd  ac  yno  yrhaued  klod 
achamolieth  ^  bawb  or  gwled  dydd  ac  yrhaned  pen  bonedd  gwynedd 
affeu  hailioni  gwent  amorganwg  aifen  gwyboday  ymhowys  affen 
perchen  tai  yneheybarth  ac  vel  hyn  y  Terfyna  aryth  wgan  yr  hon 
a  essgrifenodd  owen  fohn  yn  y  llyfyr  hwn. 

15  JLyma  helfa  ne  Gassgal  hawdd  y  hepkor 

Mewn  ymddiddanion  rhwng  rhyw  hen  wr  a  gwr  Jefank  yr  hen  wr  a  elwyd  yn 
haen  Gofiadyr  oherwydd  yddo  ef  adrodd  hen  Estoriae  adwediaday  Gwyr  doythion 
1  gyigbori  yr  lefeink  beidio  a  byw  yn  segyr  ac  yn  ddibroffid  yddo  y  hynan  ac  y 
bawb  eraUl  ar  ]efank  ae  elwyd  yn  hawdd  y  hepkor  ....  A  gassgled  ac  a  droed 
yn  gymraeg  gan  wr  a  brynodd  y  ddysg 

fynghariad  if  b 

a  wnaeth  bosi     .... 
A  hynny  kyn  pen  nemor 
oni  fendia  hawdd  y  hepgor  Thams  Owens  de  lanelwy 

40  Ymddiddan  ryng  yr  effeiriad  ar  gwr  bonheddig^ 

Pwy  ydiw  y  gwr  y  may  y  merched  arno  e  yn  edrych  ...      c 

Ny  fEriodasswn  ddim  oth  gyfryw  . 
72   Gwarandewch  arna  fin  doydyd 

fymherigl  yn  fy  lenctyd  d 

Myfi  addefaf  ar  draithiad 

fy  hanes  cm  dechreyad     .... 

onid  peth  y  beri  chwerthin 

yr  plant  sy  yn  y  gegin  Sion  Tydyr 

94       IFo  fydd  hon  blwyddyn  Ryfedd     ....  e 

o  bydd  byw  doctor  powel  John  Tydyr 

*  Placed  after  MS.  184  on  the  shelves  at  Peniarth. 

f  The  prologue  iswanting  in  this  MS.  and  the  wording  varies  slightly  from  that 
in  MS.  56.     It  also  ends  abruptly  (See  MS.        ,  p.  172,  1.  12). 


INTEELUDES,   EIRA  MYNYDD,   ETC.  453 

109  Arayth  y  heliog  Bronfrayth 

Uyma  ym  ddi  cldanion  dedwydd     ....  a 

Nes  y  kvvrddom  eilwailh.  Anon, 

11-1       Vel  y  royddwn  in  Rodio     ....  b 

ffar  wel  iti  y  dryw  bach 
Adoes  yn  ]fach  dros  heno  .  .„ 

118       Pwy  syn  y  plas  dylas  dawn     ,     .     .     ,  c 

ped  fesyd  kail  gwell  yfysse  yd  boido 
yn  dy  bias  dyhynan  trig  yndo  „ 

121       Os  ryfeddaf  kyd  Bwyfard  d 

Ar  flaeu  daer  ar  Brig  yn  hardd 

Arthyr  Bell  Glod  ar  ddywes     .... 

Nes  y  keffech  di  fferen  .  „ 

127       Nefol  dad  llawn  Ead  llywanrhi  ydwyd     ....  c 

bowyd  o  newydd  aniweddar    Amen.  „ 

132       y  may  Duw  yn  Gorchymyn  ./ 

na  fynych  di  dduw  ond  vn     .     .     .     . 
Ti  a  Gai  y  nef  pen  ddelych  „ 

135       Ampech  well  foneddigion     ....  g 

llyma  Rybydd  y  bob  kada[r]n 
vod  y  ddechray  ddiwedd  yn  wan  ' 

Gwaer  neb  nis  meddylio  y  hynan 

may  Gwr  kadarn  Aco 
A  wyti  arnafl.  yn  gryndo     .... 
Rag  y  fod  ytb  erbyn  dy  hynan  „ 

146  Rymadroddion  y  fy  rwng  y  tri  Brenin  o  Gwlen  a  herod 
ac  fel  yr  aeth  yr  Arylwyddes  fair  ay  mab  fosseb  y 
fethlem  ac  fel  ac  y  kowsont  y  Tayr  anreg  : 
,   Y  kenadwr  yn  dechre 

Tewch  ach  siarad  a  gwrandewch     ....  A 

yrwran  Rwi  yn  dal  herod 

yn  barod  yni  ansiawns  .  „ 

]  56  TLyma  Lyfyr  0  englynion  y  Passion 

Tewch  asson  a  gwran  dewch    «...  « 

och  och  ble  mwy  y  keysia 

186       Eira  mynydd  kaled  Grawn  k 

Dail  ar  gychwyn  llyn  ya  llawn 
Nag  am  ddirieid  y  estrawn     .... 
Gway  ymddirieto  ydolyn  anssad  „ 

190   Y  Misoedd :  Mis  Jonawr  myglyd  dyfFryn     ....  / 

y  dderfydd  y  nydd  ynos 

194  Henaint  a  fenctid :  Pant  oeddwn  ar  ddiwarnod  m 

yn  Rodio  ar  dir  gwastad     .... 
hyd  oni  Gwrddoni  nesa  „  ' 

211  tristid :  Mi  welwn  vn  yn  sefyll  n 

Dan  wern  Uwyn  diffeth  towyll     .... 
y  fynd  yn  ddiawlayd  gwldion  John  Jenhin 

218       fy  ifryns  am  holl  Gefeillion     ....  o 

y  ddwed  ond  gwirionedd 
224  Englynion  y  medddod :  odduw  frenin  y  gradde  .....  p 

Jjob  Ehoddion  glan  neill  dy.d  ,  Anon, 


c 


456  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   65. 

235   Yr  Englynion  afy  Ryng  y  Gwr  claf  ar  h/thr\^er\ 
Hyma  satau  hydoliaetli     .... 
A  gad  ym  lonydd  bellach  Anon. 

247   Y  Gwr  claf  yn  y  laely :  pr  brenin  nef  gallyog     .... 

Ac  felly  bydd  yn  wastad  Syr  sion  Owen. 

251       Duw  Tad  Or  nef  Gallyog    .... 

Am  dan  fy  hoU  anwiredd  Anon. 

259       El  dyma  Almanac  kywrain  d 

Och  ^aith  Tyner  ych  liynayn     .... 
Cans  hwn  ywr  kynta  wneytho  „ 

273       Pent  oyddwn  ar  fore  yn  kerdded     ....  e 

a  lladd  y  mab  heb  wybod  Pam 
vel  Dyna  ram  ddiarebol  „ 

288  Ahgeu  :  Chwychwi  Bob  ^enngctud  Budol     ....  / 

Q-wachelwch  Dan  yffernol  .  „ 

292  {Holi  ag  ateb  ar  y  Catechisma)  g 

Yr  Eos  mwyn  ymddiddan     .... 

yn  Diodde  Gloes  yr  ange  .  „ 

293  Mi  a  fum  yn  hir  yn  holi  /* 
Bachgen  Pummlwydd  digri     .... 

farwel  y  bachgen  eon     .... 

Taw  wi-th  yn  bodd  y  kwrddon  „ 

311-27    Kepetition  of  pages  293-310. 
327   Y  modd  y  Budd  Rkyngofi  atn  Pwrs 

Pob  kudymaith  Anghryno     ....  i 

yn  llawn  Be  kawni  weled  „ 

334  Domine  nou  sum  dignus  &c.  k 

335  Y  reinallt  y  may  cledd  ar  groynin  / 
yn  graff  fab  gryffydd  ap  blethin     .... 

hwynt  a  gant  glap  gan  y  gledd  Lewys  glyn  cothi 

345       Oes  vn  Gydag  vn  y  Gayr  yn  ddlfai     ....  m 

Y  knawd  ar  Pechawd  yr  Bedd 

Ar  enayd  y  wirionedd  Anon. 

347       Tyme  Now  it  is  vnto  Thee  n 

To  leave  Away  thy  folye     .... 
^s  Saved  By  thy  Passion  owcn  Price 

350  Dod  fwyd  a  diod  par  dy  a  dillad  &c.  Anon  o 
I.       Na  Rana  ddyn  da  ddiwyd  wr  da  wyt  &c.           ?  Ho  J  W  p 

c.  Eho  dy  galon  gron  yn  gryno  &c.  „       q 

d.  Doe  basoedd  ar  goedd  yn  rhy  gywallys  &c.  „       ?• 

351  Er  nath  wyl  bybyl  yth   bobed    oerfath  yn  arfer  di-wg  wyithred  s 
Cay  yffem  lawn  gom  ar  led  dyn  gwael  y  may  diiwii  gweled   Ho.  Jo  W 

353  The  beginning  of  another  version  of  Englynion  y  misoedd — incomplete. 

Mis  ^onawr  Segur  dynion     ....  t 

Mis  Ebrill  llvvm  Brig  Rhedyn     .... 
Na  bo  meddw  y  krydd  Penwyn  || 


MS.  66  =  Hen.  258.     Poetry  by  D.  ap  Gwilim,   Sion  Phimp, 
SioN  Tddtr,  Bedo  Eurdrem,  Sign  Kent,  &c.  &c.    Paper ;  6  x  4 


POETRY,  HANES  TALIESIN,  ETC. 


457 


inches ;  210  pages;  mostly  late  xvith  century  but  a  few  pages  here  and 
there  are  later ;  in  a  case. 

This  MS.  is  in  a  bad  state  of  preservation  and  friable ;  it  is  imperfect  at  the 
beginning  and  about  a  dozen  leaves  have  rotted  away  at  the  end.  Pages  157-58, 
161-64,166-67,  191,  197  are  blank.  The  following  names  occur:  David  Nanney 
&  Hugh  Lewes  (p.  108)  ;  Hugh  Lewys  Gwynn  1626  (pp.  159  and  204)  ;  John 
Harry,  William  Price,  Thomas  Price  (p.  162)  ;  Emanuel  Annwyl  (p.  163). 


1  IJAm  daraw  i  mae  dvrol  (i.  57) 
ir  byd  a  gyfyd  o  gvdd 

2  I  mai  gair  i  mi  o  gariad     . 
am  ysgar  meingar  a  mi 

6       Oed  am  Rliiain  add  feindeg 

ar  niv/1  maith  am  hanrhaith  mwy 

9       Y  lleian  ddoeth  ai  lliw  yn  dda 
fy  mvn  a  nef  im  henaid 

10       Soniais  veiawar  am  garv     .     . 
oin  blaen  im  hoi  fEol  i  fEoys 

13       Mae  karv  ym  hob  kwr  im  hais     . 
fy  Dvw  hon  fy  nihenydd 

17       Tyfodd  vwch  Rhyd  tayofwy     .     .     . 
ddiank  o  cherdda  y  ddaiar     imperfect 

21       Naw[s  dig  ni  bydd  nes  i  daw]     .     , 
diried  ym  diweiried  yw     imperfect 

24       Doe  yn  gyffelib  i  daw     .... 
yn  avr  yno  ir  enaid 

28       Y  fvn  ara  fain  Jrwen     .... 
bodlon  wyf  bei  dylwn  well 

34      Pond  oer  penyd  a  wn     .     .     .     . 
e  Eydd  duw  arwydd  dial 

38       Kwrs  ynfyd  i  kerais  vnferch     . 
ag  yn  Jach  bellach  ir  byd 

42      Y  ddyn  winfaeth  ^niownfawr     . 
nad  fvn  newidio  feinioes 

46       Gofal  am  ddal  meddyliav     .     .     . 

y  gwall  ar  ben  gwen  i  gyd 
49       Y  ddyn  ai  fFriw  addfwyn  ffre.s     . 

pen  feinioes  fydd  pen  fynych 
53       Y  fvn  addfwyn  fwyneiddfawr    . 

ai  fanedd  el  ir  fynwent 
57       Y  forwyn  fwyn  er  /  n  /  ferch     . 

heb  ordderch  i  neb  erddi 
61       Dydd  da  ir  fwyna  ar  a  fv     .     . 

dros  bod  deiroes  heb  wr 
64       Blinais  yn  dwyn  er  mwyn  merch 

gist  faen  ar  gost  y  fynwent 

68       Y  llwyn  bedw  dianedwydd     .     . 
bydd  ddiwid  y  myd  i  mi 

70       Pwy  gore  pie  r  goron     .... 
dan  i  uawdd  feneid  i  ne 

74       Benedicte  Domine  drwy  nerth  ^essv  fab  Alffa 
pentyrrv  at  y  teirnedd  dy  drvgaredd  archa 

E    98430. 


Robin  ddv 


dd.  ap  ffwiltm 


Ai  harodd  ai  kant. 

Hvw  penal 

dd.  ab  gwilim 

Sion  y  Kent 

Sion  phylipp 

Dyn  dig  yn  karv  ai  hunt. 

Sion  Tvdvr 

Ai  harodd  ai  kant 

Bedo  avrdrem 


f 


gr:  ah  Owen  ab  Wtn: 

t 
lewis  morganwg 

Bedo  evrdrem 

Jevan  Dyfi 

Bedo  evrdrem 

Dauydd  ab  gwilim 

Anon. 

Taliessin 
L 


P 


458  PKNIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   66. 

77  Peth  o  hanes  Taliesiin:  Telrgwaidd  im  ganed  gwn  fyfyrio  '    a 
kanys  gwn  a  fv,  y  sydd,  ag  a  fydd  etto     .... 
mi  a  fvytn  yn  llys  don  |  kyn  geni  gwdyon  Taliessin 

81  Trioedd  Taliessin :  Tri  anwiw  byd :  gyrv  mvd  yn  Uattai 
amneidio  ar  ddall  a  hvsting  a  byddap  ....  ends :  Tri  ifeth  a  syrth 
ar  ddyn  heb  wybod  iddo  :  hvno,  henaint,  a  ffechod 

89   Ymofynion  Rwng  yr  henawgwr  ar  mab  Jfank. 

Y  mah  :  Ar  nawdd  dvw  fewyrth  heini  h 

pie  i  ymofyna  chwedlo  a  chwi    .... 
y  gwr  :  Wyla  ydifeirwch  aniaa  /  dy  bechod 
rybvcha  dda  ir  trvan 
na  ddamTna  ddrwg  i  neb 
mwy  nag  ith  -wyneb  dy  hvnan 

93   Y  llyma  Rinwedde  y  keiliog  : 

Yheiliog  sydd  organ  y  nos  Bingill  y  dydd  &c.  c 

95  Markia   Nid   oes    dim   heb    genfigen   wrtho   ond  trveni  Ac, 
ends  :    Y  neb  ni  bo  bai  arno  a  ddichon  barnv. 

96       Y  lloer  wen  Uiw  r  eira  vncs     ....  d 

a  chael  nef  ddyn  wchlan  wyd  Jevan  tew  brydydd 

99       levan  or  winllan  wnllwyd  e 

tew  gwr  boneddig  teg  wyd     .... 
a  dvw  fadde  dy  f eddwl  Master  Hari  hy dwell 

102       Y  fvn  devliw  od  ar  faes     ....  / 

moes  trwyr  hir  meistr  harri  Jfan  tew  brydydd 

107  Number  of  days  &c.  in  the  year  and  Eecipes. 

109       Mawr  vw  genny  mawr  [....]....  g 

y  fwia  i  dig  ai  hiddigedd 
i  bwrn  ai  dygkko  ir  bedd  {John  Tudur) 

113  Hanes  y  Trwstan :  Gwrandewch  arnaf  /n/  dywedyd  h 

fyn  rliigyl  cm  fy  iengtid     .... 
el  dyma  i  chwi  fy  mvchedd 
or  dechre  hyd  y  diwedd  sion  tvdvr 

134  Mol:  David  ap  ho'll  ap  Owen  o  llanbrynmair 

Dafydd  ar  gynydd  wr  gwych     ....  i 

hael  wyd  er  ^oed  havla  drych  dd:  ap  Ho'll  Swrdwal 

137   Y  Pater  :  Yn  tad  Santaidd  byraidd  barch     ....  k 

oes  oesoedd  yu  llys  ifesu  Doctor  Sion  y  kent 

142       pen  ddel  eryr  dros  for  ai  dryssor  obry     ....  / 

ai  gwragedd  in  grire  anhoithe  in  tyrv 

144  prif  ar  pymp  ywr  timp  ar  tai  yn  weigion  &c.  m 

145  duw  forr  y  diiwiav  eraill     ....  re 
ddofydd  er  a  ddioddefawdd                   Docttor  John  y  kent 

150  ry  vchel  pen  el  poen  alaeth  a  gwymp     ....  o 
aethon  yn  gaethion  i  gid                                                Anon. 

b.       taliesin  ddewin  a  ddovavd  barabl  &c.  n 

151  Hwyraf  dydd  olaf  od  ei  ddilyn  drwg  &c.  q 

b.       Ni  wyr  gwirddyn  moi  gerdded  oi  flaen  r 

aflonydd  ywr  dynged 
a  fo  difai  na  feied 
ar  y  lleill  ai  beie  ar  lied.  „ 


POETBY  AND  PEDIGREES.  459 

:•    ft    vMerddin  /a/  ddyfod  mowrddysk  attebion  --i  ■;    ^     .  a 

ni  -wnel  ar  ol  rhol  rhywddysk 

i  daith  i  hynan  ai  dysk.  Anon. 

d.       Dvw  Abram  digam  dvw  ^ftgo  dy  ras     .     .     .     ;  b 

■wrth  raid  ir  enaid  a  rydd.  '  » 

153  Plasay  parluray  purloiwon  duras  &c.  c 
b.      wrth  hir  gi-iaw  draw  drwy  awydd  ar  dduw  /  .  .  .  .           d 

noith  ywi"  dyn  nath  ro  dwyneb     .... 

Yn  rhydd  ole  /  r  /  dydd  ar  dwr  „ 

154  ni  chair  melys  dilis  niTndol'na'siwgwr     ....  e 
oes  dyn  /  n  /  fodlon  y w  stad                                             ,, 

b.  girie  traws  eirie  trw  sorant  Uedwyilt  / 
Uydio  mwy  a  barant    .     ,     .     . 

girie  tegke  gore  y  tikiant  » 

c.  nattur  anoith  pouth  ».  bar  yn  waidwyllt  &c.  »       9 

155  odid  o  ddewid  ar  ddawai  byth  &c.  '* 

b.  y  Uanke  a  ddyko  vn  llwy  yn  lledrad  &e.  » 

c.  Gwiliwch  na  fyddweh  feddal  er  addaw  &c.  * 

d.  gwell  i  ddyn  rydyn  anghariadys  daer  &c.  I 

156  Kowydd  barnad  elissa  a  moris  esquer 

Troes  y  byd  mewn  trais  beb  wedd  &c.  (lo  lines  only)  m 

•''"■159      Pwy  bynag  o 'ffrydaln,  or  gofain  sy'n  gowrain  ..  .- .  ■-       n 
il .  dyn  oedd  yn  gweled  i  gariad  kyn  ddofed 

■ii^ag  ofni  i  gnai  hi  ymwared  a  rhw'yn  Anon 

1(55  Recipes.     168,  Eecipesfor  the  mygrym&c. 

170  pah  ddarffo  i  chwi  ych  super  &c.  ,    o 

■b.       OS  a  ith  priodi  o  Anfodd  fy  nhad     ....  p 

hi  a  attebe  jn/  o  sarig  dim- dim  na  na  i      Tho:  Pryce  ■ 

171  ILyma  englynion'y  ^It  harwyddy  xii  mis y  Jlwyddyn  ag  or 

lleoedd  i  tnae  vddvnt  bower  a  gallv  j/nghorff  dyn 
Y  trydydd  ebrillwydd  dan  bren  nag  egor  q 

na  gwegil  na  thalken     .... 
i  mae  bysg  ymhob  esgid  Anon 

173  Hemve  y   xii  harwydd  ynt  fel  hyn  . 

Oen   gwrdd   trwygyfwrdd  tarw  gefell  krank  &c.  r 

b.  Ragorieth  Rwng  yr  Arwydd[ionJ  drwg,  ar  Rat  da  a  gydna- 
■^yfidfellyn :  Hwrdd  gefell  a  chrarik  hardd  gyfiawn  &c.  s 

^        174  w7-th  yr  englynign  hyn  f  gellir  gydnabod  natvriaeth   y 
iiij"'  komplexiwn  korff  dyn,  ar  amseredd  i  tnaenl  yn 

hael  i  gorvchafieth 

Sangwynys  melvs  a  Inwyn  |  a  thyner     ....  t 

:-    arVen  yn  Rew'  Anianol ' 

176  Pedigrees :  Thomas  ap  humfrey  ap  dd  ap  ho'U  &c. 

178  Tri  ffeth   ni   dderfydd  byth:    Enaid   a  chardod   a  charyad 
iysprydol  ....  ejirf* ;  Tri  ffeth;  a  gaiff  dvn  kyskadvr  k\frilidd  a  choUed 

-—a  methiant. 

179  Rag  y  fain:  Kymer  wraidd  lly-sse  if  an  a  gwraidd  y  ilenigl  a 
igwraidd  y  Saech  &c. 

b.      DGw  tad  duw  gariad  duw  gwirion  diiw  lawn  &c.  u 

L  2 


460  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT  66. 

180   Yma  i  kal^n  amriw  benhillion  wedi  ossod  mvwn  ordr  yn  oU 
yr  a.  b.  c.  gida  Rhai  diarhebion 
Abl  i  bob  peth  ai  bodlono     ....  a 

ends :  A  vfo  ormodd  bid  feddw  . 

187      Mawr  oeud  hap  gwr  a  nappai  b 

y  wraig  .  .  .  .  y  wypay  pob  kampay  kas     .... 
help  ni  does  yn  i  hoes  hi     ...     . 
mothion  gwael  mathe  yn  i  gyd  Ithys  ab  hart 

192  F  llythyren  jB*  /  weithian  &c. 

b.  (pen  Sant  Uoiger — S.  Gorge  [sic]     S.  Martjm — Burgandie  &c.) 

193  Mawr  oedd  hap  &c.  (being  a  repetition  of  187-90).  e 

198  Y  ll)'thyren  /  d*  /  weithian  yn  i  hordr  &c. 

b.      Dvw  abram  di  gam  dvw  Jago  dy  Eas  &c.  d 

199  fferch  .  Yr  edyn  hardd  ywch  gardd  goed     ....  e 

i  mine  a  gwen  mewn  y  gw[ydd]  .       Ai  carodd  ai  kant . 

205  Mar.  Edwart  herbart  o  Raglan  —(very  imperfect) 

"Yn  dyw  a  droes  i  noes  ni     .     .     .     .  f 

mab  marchog  kolerog  klan     .... 
na  brenin  ***♦*« 


MS.  67  =  Hen.  128.  Poetry,  mostly  by  Howel  Dati.  Paper; 
5|  X  4^  inches;  322  pages — ^beginning  and  end  lost;  (?)  late  xvth 
century,  and  possibly  in  Howel  Davi's  writing,  which  corresponds 
with  part  of  the  writing  of  MS.  54;  covered  by  a  piece  of  black 
leather,  inside  which  is  written  "  liber  Johannis  Lewis  "  (see  MSS.  54, 
55,  &  60)  ;  in  a  case. 

Pages  388-518  of  MS.  99  are  evidently  a  direct  copy  of  pp.  29-323  of  this  MS. 
and  pp.  266-392  of  MS.  101  are  a  transcript  of  MS.  99.  In  Williams'  Eminent 
Welshmen  Howel  Davydd  is  treated  as  a  different  person  from  Hnw  Davi  but  this  is 
a  mistake ;  witness  that  Bedo  Brwynllys  addresses  him  by  both  names  in  the  same 
Cywydd  on  p.  264. 

1       g6nevthvr  angel  bri  [»»****]§...     .  g 

hyn  vych  nor  neb  hynnaf  Jeuan  ap  Ho: 

b.      gonnodd  ymadrodd  i  mi§     ....  h 

am  knawt  yr  vedraOt  i  vam         Ho:  ap  dd:  ap  J.  ap  rryst 

7      Mi  a  wn  Ue  mae  gwr    ....  i 

Krys  goch  ydy6  r  naf    .... 
ni  bom  i  heb  yn  dvrawdr  Dd:  lltoyt 

12       Dvw  Iwyt  a  vriwyt  i  vronn     ....  k 

a  Uv  byth  wellwell  i  bo  JL.  ap  Morgan 

21       Mae  gloes  dan  vymronn     ....  I 

gwae  vi  am  ywain  .  .  .  Mab  ivor  ap  Rrys    .    .     . 
yn  y'  dai  yn  wastad  Dd:  llJwyt 

29      Hvdol  angiriol  gerynt     ....  m 

ywain  ai  vrawt  a  roi  n  vrav     .... 
hael  lawn  oedd  h6yl  wen  iddo    *388,  faee,  {21 6.     Ho:  Davi 

*  The  list  of  Proverbs  under  B  and  d  were  never  written. 

§  The  outer  third  of  the  folio  is  torn  off  and  wanting. 

Note  that  in  this  MS.  *  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  99  which  is  a  transcript  of 
MS.  67  ;  t  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  101  which  is  a  transcript  of  MS.  99  ;  and 
t  denotes  the  page  of  Cwrtmawr  MS.  12  which  seems  to  be  based  on  both  transcripts. 


THE  POEMS   OP   HUW  DAVI.  461 

33  Dy  gyngor  ath  gvssvl  yw  ymofyn  a  doeth  tewi  wrth  a 
ynvyt  ymganlyn  a  dedwydd  &c. 

h.  hwejfwngk  a  ddyhj  dyn  i  veddylyaw  liyn  dywetto  y  chwedl  : 
pa  beth  a  ddywetto  pyham  y  dywetto  &c.  Kadtwn  ddoeth. 

34  Seffrai  a  yf  ossai  ff'[r]aingk     ....  b 
Keirw  yn  siep  ar  korn  yn  hon                    Gytto  or  glynn 

39       Nyda  na  bara  nev  beren  gyfan     ....  c 

Morgan  ....  mab  tomas  a  las     ...     . 

ef  a  roi  gwas  vara  a  gwin    *390,  t270,  J218,  Ho:  Davi 

43       ILennwid  deigr  val  Uynn  tegid     ....  d 

.  .  am  ywain  |  gaer  lleon  gawr  garw  llaii  gain    .     .     . 

newydd  vydd  yniwedd  voes    *392,  t273, 1221.  „        „ 

48      T  bravvt  wallter  vederyn     ....  e 

trwy  gas  y  tyrr  y  gissarn    *394,  t275.  „         „ 

52  JLyma  vynegi  yn  vyrr  am  boh  mis  yn  y  vlwyddyn  gyneddvav 
y  dyn  a  anner  o  an  nattvr  y  mis  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  os  mis  tach6edd 
J  genir  brawdwr  kyf yawn  vydd  ac  aniwair  vydd. 

54      Karv  i  bvm  kyt  kvriwyf     ....  J 

somet  vi  am  osymaith  Dd:  ap  ffwiliia  gam, 

58       Wiliam  vychan  Ian  haelioni  r  triael     ....  g 

vn  hyd  vo  iechyt  6iliam  vycban    *396,  f277.  Ho:  Davi 

64  vn  tri  arbenic  y  sydd  vn  diiw  or  nef  vn  klaOr  y  ddaear  vn  g6r 
yC  angav  &c. 

66  JLyma  drioedd  arbennic  ynnys  brydain  o  waith  Taliessin  . 
,[advydd]  dialedd  ar  went   advydd  o  gen  [....]  &c.  || 

&I      brad  vv  mddiriet  y  brydydd     ....  h 

ban  ddoeth  gyntaf  ataf  i 
y  diefyl  gan  how  el  davi     .... 
le  bowel  ni  leihaid    *400,  t28l.  John  apffelpod 

70       Mi  a  yr  wlad  lie  mae  r  wledd     ....  i 

ywen  maelor  win  melys     .... 
gwisc  henavr  gossawc  gwynnedd.  Ho:  Davi 

14:  Saith  ry6  gOyn  y  sydd  nid  amgen  kOyn  apel  kOyn  kam 
gynnal  &c. 

b.  wythnyn  y  sydd  yn  adail  y  He  yn  vffern  dragwyddol  nid  amgen 
Bjyc  korn  allor  okrOr  kyffredin  &c. 

75  Pvmnyn  y  sy  n  adail  y  lie  ymharad6ys  .  .  .  hael  anyanol  a  glew 
trvgaroc  kadarn  kyfyaOn  &c. 

b.  Ni  wyl  oui  vynn  ni  wyr  oni  ddysc  ni  ddysc  end  astvt  &c. 
76       Ymladd  a  vv  ar  Ivoedd  k 

a  garfav  duw  n  gorvot  oedd    ,     .     ,     . 
OS  daear  sydd  ar  vestr  sion  [Uwyn  rrosser]     .... 
aet  ef  y  bob  nef  or  naw    *402,  t283.  Ho:  Davi 

80       Y  mwya  i  bwys  am  byd     ....  I 

da  vydd  agwnan  ddydd  ban  ddel  „       „ 

84       Y  gwr  y  sydd  ar  groes  wenn     ....  m 

beb  iachav  baich  howel     .... 
y  bor  Hall  ynn  bawb  ar  bet    *403,  t285.  „        „ 

Note  that  in  this  MS.  *  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  99  which  is  a  transcript  of 
MS.  67  J  t  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  101  which  is  a  transcript  of  MS.  99  ;  and. 
J  denotes  the  page  of  Cwrtmawr  MS.  12  which  seems  to  be  based  on  both  transcripts. 


462  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   67. 

88       Mae  dav  ddyn  ym  diddanv  a 

howel  ai  dat  gwr  hael  dv     .     .     .     . 

Davydd  nai  rvffydd  ney  rys     .... 

heboc  tafaeloc  velyn 

hebot  ni  chan  tafot  dyn    *406,  287t..  Howel  davi 

92       Mae  had  ynghasdell  madawc    ....  b 

y  henaint  nis  gwahanom    •408,  t289.  „         „ 

95       pie  raf  y  gwylyav  at  y  gwalch  gwinav     ....  c 

hil  brychan  dannawl     .... 

97  ILyma  ddadl  kroes  am  dir  a  dayar  herwydd  y  ddefod  yssydd 
ymyrcheinioc  arveredic  dyfod  a  wna  y  dyn  i  bo  hawl  gantho  ar  dir  att 
yr  vchelvaer  a  chymryt  kroes  a  mynnet  a  hi  ai  dodi  yn  y  tii-  drwy 

dystoliaeth  dav  ddeiliat  &c ends :    ai  diweddv  drwy  vn  o 

dair  flfordd  nid  amgen  kof  nev  yarn  nev  ddevddec. 

104       T  mae  sant  a  tonn  ai  serch     ....  d 

a  moes  droi  hwnn  yr  meistr  hyw    *410.      Ho:  Kae  TLwyt 

108       Och  Jessv  pam  na  cheissir     ....  e 

bwrw  howel  eiriav  melys     .... 
gwin  a  ron  gwynn  yr  enaid    *412,  t292.  H:  Davi 

112       Mae  vn  gwi*  yraan  gorwedd     ....  / 

dwyn  gwallter  [Hafart]  mab  dvwn  gwylltv     .... 
Aet  ef  ywlat  nef  yn  iaoh    *413,  f294.  Ho:  Davi 

lie       Eli  ac  aeth  dros  ili  ao  onn  g 

Harri  ar  gweywyr  hirionn     .... 
7  gwyr  ni  wyr  gair  on  iaith     »416.     Dd:  TLwyt  ap  S  ap  gr: 

121  Jr  Marchog  glas  o  Went  :  Tomas  ai  wayw  glas  ai  gledd  ...     h 
oth  gampav  da  nith  gwymp  dyn    *419,  t296.       Ho:  Davi. 

125  Utto :  T  marchoe  ym  a  [e]erchi3     ....  i 

Syr  tomas  wewyr  twynnyon     .... 
nod  arnaf  oen  y  dernas    *42l,  t295.  „        „ 

130  Mar:  Jeu:  ap  Morgan  .  l^6g  . 

y  gwr  ai  grys  dan  graic  ro     .     .     •    .  k 

bwrw  wiliam  a  beir  wylo     .... 

tewi  am  waith  vanbri  vydd     .... 

o  daeth  ievan  ai  anedd 

y  Ian  vaeth  wrthlvnio  i  vedd 

ty  noeth  yw  r  pevtvn  weithian     .... 

avr  ar  i  vab  ar  wyr  vo    *424,  fsoi.  Ho:  Davi 

134      yr  awyr  am  dir  ^feuan    ....  I 

ymlhas  syr  tomas  air  twnn     .... 
ef  a  wyr  swrn  ddifer  sais    *426,  t303.  „         „ 

138  HainfEych  gwell  y  bedigetikaf  arglwydd  Jessii  grist  a  Men 
Arglwydd  trvgarba  vrthym  &c.  Santes  vair  vendigedikaf  vorwyn 

gweddia  drosson  ni  &c.  &c ends :  a  >  dvw  gyda  ni  a  mair 

amen 

148  JLyma  weddiav  Jeuan  ap  rryderch 

149  Mar:  R.  ap  Ho:  o  Elvel:  Kwyno  rwyf  rrac  gwayw  ny  rais  . .  m 

Ac  yno  y  tiic  enaid  rrys    *428,  fsos.  Howel  Davi 


Note  that  in  this  MS.  *  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  99  which  is  a  transcript  of 
MS;  67;  t  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  101  which  is  a  transcript  of  MS.  99;  and 
t  denotes  the  page  of  Cwrtmawr  MS.  12  which  seems  to  be  based  on  both  transcripts. 


THE'^POEMS  OF  HOWEL  DA VI.  463 

154  Jhon  ap  gwatkyn  Daio  paen     -  • .     .     x  mark  a 
Klement  tilwyn    ....    xv]'  vii]"  &o. 

155  gry£Eydd  var  ar  aw  bawl  onwydd  &o.  J 

157  Mar:  Trablvddvs  yw  teirw  [bledtlyn]     ....  c 

Howel  ap  rrys  ....  aelod  tir  Selyf     .... 

a  biav  r  groes  y  bvr  groc    *43l,  fsos. 
161       Harri  mil  hwyr  ym  welet    ■.     .     .     .  d 

kymer  verch  kymro  varchawc     .... 

ac  na  chais  verch  sais  or  swydd    .     .     . 

heboc  yr  twyssoc  wyt  ti    *43'3,  fsio. 
165      y  mae  merthyr  yn  wyr  not  e 

wyryon  dafydd  rai  n  dyfot'    .... 

wyr  wyt  rys  avr  hyt  yr  en     .     .     .     . 

ac  epil  vn  y  gwplav    *435,  f  312. 

170      Oyr  ia  o  drassav  r  yiiys  f 

Morgan  ym  hob  rrann  ap  Rrys 
y  mi  hwnnw  ym  henaint    *437,  t3l4. 

174  y  kai-w  kwyrwallt  vn  dwf  ac  oswallt  a 
mae  hwnnw  n  ddewis    (].  lo)  (| 

175  o  wysc  yr  ddisserth  os  kaiff  yn  brytverth     ....  h 
aelodav  r  goron  yn  bawb  in  gvras 

176  Trifflas  oedd  y  domas  dec     ....  % 
tomas  tros  evas  y  sydd 

]fawn  etifedd  gwent  hefyd     .... 
ni  vaddevaf  a  addawodd    *439,  -fsie. 

180  o  bvm  i  wallys  |  a  ifrif  ysgaelys     ....  h, 
davydd  llwyt  yn  vaith  |  am  y  vethv 

181  o  dir  a  dwr  y  daw  r  da I 

tal  dy  gorn  bval  y  bwyth    *443,  t3i8.  Huw  Davi 

183       Le6ys  afm&i  lys  yn  y  6Iad  e  hvn     ....  m 

hynna  vv  lywarch  hyn  vo  lewys    *443,  t320.        Ho:  Davi 

186       Ym  kaOell  ymae  kywydd     ....  n 

mae  storyae  saint  y  meistr  sion     .... 

ond  ewch  yn  vn  dowch  yn  iach    *445,  t322. 
190      Y  gwr  0  gorff  gore  geid     ....  o 

ni  ostyngir  in  es  dangev    *448,  t325. 

193       y  gOr  rrwydd  a  gar  heddwch     ....  p 

Syrr  wyt  ti  ni  sorrytt  wann 

roser  bettrvster  trystan     .... 

bid  dduw  lie  bo  dy  ddiwedd    *450,  t32".  Huw  Dam 

197       Y  kelioc  gloyw  or  gogledd     ....  « 

Maestr  tomas  gvras  y  gad     .... 

ac  yn  ol  maedd  [sic\  ai  gOnel  mwy    *452,  t329.    Ho6el  Davi 
200      Yr  etifedd  o  vleddyn     ....  r 

Meistr  tomas  wynyas  onnwydd     .... 

ve  wyl  devgain  wyl  dy  gas  .    *454,  fSSl.  Huw  davi 

204       Y  ^arll  hydr  a  wyr  Uadin     ....  s 

tair  o  ossoedd  nin  treissiann    *456,  t333. 

Note  that  in  this  MS.  *  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  99  which  is  a  transcript  of 
MS'.'B7 ;  t  iienotes  ^he  page  of  MS.  101  -which  is  a  transcript  of  MS.  99;  and- 
t  denotes  the  page  of  Gwrtmawr  MS.  12  which  Seems  to  be  based  on  both  transcripts. .; 


464     •  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT  67. 

208       Golev  mewn  dadl  ych  gOelir 

gOilim  dew  yn  galw  am  dir     .     .     .     . 

adeileis  yt  wawt  ^olo 

ad>eliwyd  ytt  olvd  Jo    *458,  t336. 

212       Thomas  ddiilas  lie  ddelwyf    .... 
Ervban  domas  vychan  vydd 
rhys  y6  n  ynys  Oenionnydd     .... 
ond  yr  ychen  yn  drechaf   *461,  t338. 

216       Mawr  jw  r  bar  am  wyr  or  byd     .... 
a  bid  erydr  bedair  oes    *463,  t34l. 

221       Aetb  arnam  vnwaith  bimos     .... 
hil  wyt  hywel  eil  beli     .... 
Kadwo  diiw  y  keidwad  ym    *466,  t343. 

225       Einion  ap  gwlcbmai  vv  ai  annedd 

gynt  ya  gyntaf  yngwynnedd     .... 
y  nos  trennydd  val  nas  treddyon    (1.  90)  {| 

231       Ty  gwilym  tec  o  aelwyd     .     .     . 
^essii  ai  rro  n  oeswr  hir    *468,  t346. 

234       Mae  dev  vvr  ym  a  dwy  vaingk     .... 

Gl'm  ap  Ho:  .  .  .  Margret  ....  merch  ^ankyn  . 

nawoes  yr  vercb  ai  fferchen 

naw  hwy  no  bywyd  noe  hen    *470,  t347. 

238  7  '^^°-  ^*^  drahaearn  ap  Gl'm:  Y  dyledoc  diledach 
hil  a  g6reidd  hywel  grach     .... 
hyn  vych  no  dyn  yn  dy  dir    *472,  t350. 

242  Mar:  Tho:  o  dre'r  Castell:  Gwae  vi  wyl  ddewi  a  ddaw 
Eroet  gwledd  yn  iwedd  yn  Jon     .... 
gwledd  oedd  gan  varglwydd  iddo    *475,  t352. 

245  Mol:  TL'n  ap  Gwilim  ap  Rhys  o  Borth  "  gogof." 

Y  gwr  ar  menic  aryann     .... 
llywelyn  gynvelyn  vodd     .... 

da  fob  a  ehael  dOyoes  hir         *477,  t354. 

250  Mar:  Siwan  gweddw  EJn  ap  Gl'm  ap  Rhys 
Mi  a  wn  He  mae  annedd     .... 
havl  lyn  nedd  hwyl  wenn  iddi        *479,  t357. 

254       Mae  o  drvmoedd  ym  dramwy     .... 
Os  davydd  ni  bydd  heb  win 
ni  bv  r  brynn  eb  avr  brenin     .... 
e  vo  Iwydya  lal  adam         *481,  t359. 

259  A  fragment  (4  II.)  ending  : 

tair  oes  gwyr  ywch  wires  gwin       *486,  t364. 

b.  Mol:  Tho:  ap  Syr  Rosser  Vychan  o  Dre'r  Twr 

Y  dyn  ai  had  o  noe  hen     .... 
bedo  tra  vv  n  wybodol 

brwynllys  om  hystlys  ai  m  hoi     .... 

idda'w  er  gorlidiaOr  61ad 

ni  ro  vy  He  er  vy  lladd       *486. 


Note  that  in  this  MS.  *  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  99  which  is  a  transcript  of 
MS.  67  ;  t  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  101  which  is  a  transcript  of  MS.  99  ;  and 
1  denotes  the  page  of  Cwrtmawr  MS.  12  which  seems  to  he  based  on  both  transcripts. 


THE   POEMS  OF   HOWEL   DAVI.  465 

264  Atteb  :  Taryan  gynt  wyryon  a  gaid    ....  a 

hywel  sy  vchel  y  son 
Davi  naddwr  defnyddyon     .... 
rry  edivar  hiiw  dafl     .... 
nad  a  byth  yr  nod  i  bv       *488  bedo  brwynllys 

268       Maestr  rosser  a  bryderwyd     ....  b 

na  ddos  o  vn  nos  yn  ^^av       *490,  t364.  Huw  Davi 

273  /  Mred:  ap  Morgan  ap  Dd:  gam — "  wyd  mawr 
gan  Edw:  [/r]  " 
Meredydd  marw  yr  ydwyf    ....  c 

moes  onyd  oes  Enwi  dydd  (1.  48)        *492,  t366. 

277  ai  ddryglygaid  ysgymvnedic  yr  h6nn  a  6ahardd6yt  or  ffydd  gatholio 
crist  Jessu  drfiy  eiriol  y  vendigedic  vair  &c. 

b.  Mar:  Mred:  uchod  :  Magv  ynnof  mae  gOennwyn     .     .     .     .    d 
hedd6ch  nis  g6elGch  os  gOir 
am  a  ladd6yt  ymleddir     .... 
an  bOaeu  nine  n  annel       *495,  t368.  Ho:  Davi 

282  yr  vn  gair  6ir  angiriol     ....  e 
Egin  fielpod  nith  lodynt 

ap  rrys  hen  gyrys  ^ohn  gynt     .     .     . 

koet  llif  val  plas  kadell  hen  (1.  22)||         *497,  t371. 

283  Gorvchel  ddvw  golychir  ym  hob  ra     .     .     .     .  / 
ar  a  veddylyais  ac  a  ddigonnais  o  drais  a  thraha                 Taliessin 

292       Mae  dyn  ym  erbyn  mawrvost     ....  g 

oil  a  daler  lie  dyly       *499,  t373.  Hiiw  Davi 

296  jf  Wilym  .  .  galont  To:  ap  GVm  .  .  wyr  Ho:  uchel 
faer  swydd  Gaer\^fyrddin]  i  gyd  " 
beth  orev  ny  deav  dir     .     .     .     .  h 

bid  i  orwyr  bedeir  pes       *502,  t376. 

330  Mar:  GVm  ap  Tho:  Duw  nef  mae  Uef  ym  hob  Uwyn  .  .       i 

dewis  [ojedd  ar  lu  daear       *504,  t378. 

304      Y  gwr  y  sydd  vn  gerynt     ....  k 

gwilym  ....  vychan  .  .  .  kryf  aelod  .  .  . 
e  -wyddai  fryd  Adda  fras     .... 
dwyn  iddo  gadwyn  ac  avr        *507,  t381. 

308  Mol:  Morgant  ap  rris  ap  Ho:  a  ILevkv  V}  GFm  ap  Dd: 

Mae  ymddiddan  am  ddev  ddyn     ....  I 

kannol  byd  kannwyl  i  boch        *509,  t383. 

312  Mol:  Jeuan  ap  Morgant  eppil  Choallter  ap  GVm . 

Y  mae  g6erin  ym  gwaret     ....  m 

devoet  yr  hydd  doet  ar  hwnn        *5ll.  t385. 

316      Mi  a  gawn  yma  gannvvr     ....  n 

or  pedwar  maib  pedeirmil       *514,  t388. 
\> 
321       ym  tadmaeth  dan  saint  edmwnt    ....  o 

ai  pyrth  ef  vaj  parth  ivor  (1.  26)||        *516,  t390. 

Note  that  in  this  MS.  *  denotes  the  page  of  MS.  99  which  is  a  transcript  of 
MS.  67  J  t  denotes  ths  page  of  MS.  101  which  is  a  transcript  of  MS.  99 ;  and 
X  denotes  the  page  of  Cwrtmawr  MS.  12  which  seems  to  be  based  on  both  transcripts. 


46®^-''^  PKNIAHTH  MANUSCRIPT  68. 

MS.  68  =  Hen.  391.  P6btet  in  the  autograph  of  Rhys  CaINj: 
Paper ;  6  x  4  inches ;  1 16  +  2  pages  ;  1574-1582  ;  damaged  at  the 
corners  and  leaves  partly  loose ;  in  a  case. 

This  MS.  is  part  of  MS.  69  and  should  follow  page  264  of  that  MS.  The 
Dumherti  (which  are  in  the  original  hand)  placed  here  after  the  final  lines  indicate 
the  order  of  the  compositions  in  the  MS.  as  it  stood  originally. 

I       mawr  ywch  korff  ma[ J     .     .     .    .  a 

yn  borth  diiw  herber  ith  dal  Tudur  aled - 

5       hawdd  amawr  vwch  llawr  [  ....  j     ...     .  b 

J  gadw  /r/  tai  a  gwydr.towynn  (54)       Howell  ReinalU 
10       HavydA  mae  r  heirdd  yn  dyfod     ....  c 

an  hyfryd  byd  heb  dy  benn  gvtto  or  glyxmu  ; 

15       y  barwn*     ....  d 

OS  rry  vawr*     ....  lewys  mon 

19       Gwae  .  r  ;  wlad  ragorol  lydan     ....  e 

ac  yno  trio  enaid  Rys  Rys  kain 

25      Y  marchoc  blodevoc  blaid    ....  / 

syr  grufE  .  .  .  fychan  .  .  .  tarian  y  tir    .     .     . 

trossod  wr  trwssiad  Evraid  (60)  at  ho'll  Mian 

30       nid  dim  ond  diiw  yma    ....  g 

gwenn  a  rydd  gwin  ne  rvddavr  (61)  Rys  Kain 

35       awn  a  chlod  vyvyrdod  vawr     ....  h 

Rannv  kic  o  rron  y  kwn  (62)  .  ^57^  . 

42      Trawyd  oes  val  tro  dis  vii    .    .    .     .  i 

att  5fessv  nef  aed  Sion  wynn  (63)       .  ^576  . 

30      Mon  a  Elwid  mae  .  n  .  aJaeth    ....  k 

oi  fawr  ras  nef  J  Eissiart  (64)  .  ISId . 

57       mae  Eryr  byw  mawr  arr  bank     ....  / 

bid  ir  wyneb  dair  Einioes  (65)  .  15T6  . 

64      T  karw  ffynedic  gwrol    ....  m 

Kymro  gwych  hir  y  bych  byw  (66)  .  15TI  . 

68       Yr  Edn  mwyn  arr  donnav  mor    ....  n 

ni  wahenir  in  heinioes  (67)  •  15T§  . 

75       doe  kefais  o  waed  kyfan    ....  0 

yma  /  n  /  byw  amen  i  booh  (68)         .  15T§  . 

80      Yr  angel  dewr  yngwlad  ial    .    .     .    .  p 

yw  ddvwiol  annedd  el  ai  enaid  (69)    :15§0  . 

88       Y  gwr  doeth  yn  hav  gair  diiw    ....  q 

dy  ddiiw  ith  adv  ddwyoes  (70)  .  iSSo  . 

94       N08  da  irr  gwalch  Ernestiwr  Gwin     ....  r 

iarll  oth  aer  arall  ith  ol  (71)  .  15S2  . 

100      dvw  llvniodd  heb  dwyll  yna  s 

dav  vyd  i  ddyn  defod  dda    .... 
Sant  yw  gyda  ^fessv  /  n  /  tad  (72)      .  i3§-}  . 

105       Kadwed  ddw  hil  kydwaed  tecf  t 

jnotj  Kaem.  wyr  i  dop  Kymry  dec  (sic)     .... 
i'gad'w  rrwysc  ach  gad  y  rrawc  (73)  .  i3§2  . 


*  The  second  half  of  every  line  is  wanting. 

f  This  line  is  written  later  (by  the  author)  over  the  second  line  above. 


POEMS  BY  RYS   KAIN.  467 

111      dvw  sydd  gall  dewissodd  gynt    .... 

ach  oes  i  wythoea  a  El  (74)  .  ^56?/  . 

Then  Jollows  in  proper  order  page  265  of  MS.  6p. 

117  A  loose  leaf  unconnected  with  MS.  68. 

Nid  oes  mwy  mor  Rhymedi  b 

mae  yn  Rhaid  i  chwi  ymgosbi 
a  dv^v  a  Safo  yn  ych  plaid 
ag  a  helpo  ych  plant  gweniaid 

Ag  velli  y  terfyna  yr  holl  enterlvwt  gynta  Scripta  anno  domini 
1582  et  vicessimo  secundo  die  Octobris  Per  me  Thomas  aspull  clerk. 

118  Eubbed  and  stained  and  only  legible  in  part. 


MS.  69*  =  Hen.  260.  Poktby  mostly  by  Rys  Kain  and  in  his 
autograph.  Paper;  6x4  inches;  386  pages  ;  1574-1590;  damaged  at 
the  corners  but  repaired  throughout  and  half  bound  in  leather.  MS.  68 
is  a  part  of  this  and  should  come  between  page  264  and  page  265. 

The  Poetry  of  Ehys  Cain 

1       Keri  defeyrdd  kair  dy  faeth     ....  c 

ann  a  dal  yn  wawd  i  werth  (1)  .  ISTJf  .     Rys  Kain 

4      Y  karw  dysgedic  hirwych     ....  d 

OS  ^awn  ytt  avr  sion  ai  tal  (2)  .  ^57^  . 

9       bv  vrenhin  vric  Evrllin     ....  e 

geirda  rrawc  ir  gwyr  da  ai  Eydd  (3)  .  151  Jf  . 

14       Wrth  deked  gweled  y  Gwir     ....  / 

kynnydd  ac  oes  kann  dduw  gwynn  (4)  .  ^574  . 

18       Y  glain  nod  a  glan  ydwyd     ....  g 

wrth  fodd  ach  karodd  ich  kaf  (5)       .  15^3  . 

23       Y  gwr  yn  dwyn  gwyr  yn  dol     ....  h 

tros  ych  arf  tair  oes  i  chwi  (6) 

27       Os  awenydd  lie  sonian     ....  t 

a  bodd  dduw  a  byw  ddwyoes  (7)        .  15TIf  . 

32       Yr  oen  gwar  Enwoc  Evraid     ....  k 

vrddas  ywch  ar  weddi  sion  (8)  ,  •/575  . 

37       Nos  da  i  garw  onest  gwrol     ....  I 

yno  sion  oes  a  henaiut  (9)  .  ^574  . 

43       Y  gwr  addvwyn  gwareidd  []....  m 

bod  ddevfis  hebod  AAavydd  (10)  .  ^574  . 

48       Y  Uwyn  gwyr  vry  llowngar  vraint    ....  n 

ni  bont  wyr  heb  win  ai  tal  (11)  .  ■/575  . 

53      Yr  Eryr  Sad  arr  wyr  sydd    ....  o 

ywch  oed  sant  a  Jechyd  sion  (12)     .  151/^  .  . 

52       Duw  /n/  geidwad  arnad  drwy  dyrnas     ....  p 

kolofn  gwladav  |  korfE  di  fradav  . : 

kefn  a  gadav  |  kai  fyw  /n/  geidwad  (13)  .  ^575  . 

65      Y  gwr  ir  kail  geirwir  kv    ....  '-- fy 

wedi  del  diiw  a  dalo  (14)  .  15T5  . 

*  Placed  after  MS.  177  in  the  Peniarth  shelves.  - 


468 


PENIARTH  MANUSCfilPT   69. 


71 

75 

80 

84 

89 

94 

99 

105 

107 

114 

120 

125 

129 

134 

139 

145 

149 

154 

160 

167 

173 

179 

186 

192 


beth  yw  .  r  .  angav.boeth  wrengfyn]     .     .     , 
gras  hwnn  a  groesso  i  henaid  (15)     .  15^5  . 
Duw  na'^wyl  dyn  ai  olwc     .... 
y  gwnaed  sant  ac  enaid  sion  (16)        .  ^575  . 

Pwy  /  n  /  drechaf  pann  Edrychenn     .     .     . 
sion  dwy  Einioes  yn  dwyneb  (17)       .  15^5  . 

Mae  vn  drossom  yn  dryssawr     .... 
mynn  y  gloch  ir  mwnwgl  avr  (18)    .  iSJS  . 

bowyd  sy  wann  yw  r  byd  serth     .... 

yngwledd  saint  angel  oedd  sion  (19)  .  ^575  . 

aiT  yn  lioedl  na  rown  hyderr     .... 

yn  dadail  Enaid  Edwart  (20)  .  ^575  . 

awn  feirddion  awen  fowrddoeth     .... 

ytt  roesser  atto  /r/  ifessv  (21)  .  1576  . 

o  daw  twrn  dod  ti  hamais     .... 

boyt  rrwydd  gael  byw  trwy  hedd  Uwys  mon 

Gorav  dim  gair  di  ymwa[d]     .... 

krist  yet  help  kroessed  ych  oes  (26)  Rys  Kain 

pwy  y w  /  r/  aer  piav  /  r  /  owredd     .... 

ar  oes  fo  teiroes  y  twr  (27)  Tudur  aled 

OS  wyneb  ^arll  sy/n/  y  bedd     .... 

yn  i  henaint  frenhiniaeth  (29)  dd:  nanmor 

Mae  Siassbar  gida  hari     ....  1 

a  ro  i  owain  yr  Jevaf  (29)  ^^ 

brvdio  y  bvm  brvd  heb  wiw     .... 

a/n/  ynyg  oil  yn  vniaith  (30)  Rohin  ddv 

Y  gwrda  a  glyw  gwyrda  i  glod    ....  , 
amen  ytt  yma  /n/  Evtynn  (31)                             Rys  Kain 

mae  o  barch  ir  mab  a  wnn     ....  j 

treia  Enw  beilch  tarian  /n/  ben  (32)  „        „ 

mae  aerwy  gwynn  am  warr  gwr     ....  « 

ych  vrddol  I'ych  ar  ddol  fawr  (33)  Sion  Keri 

awst  y  lias  ynghastell  i     .     .     .     . 
a  merch  ^arll*  (34) 

Y  gwalch  hirwyn  glych  Evraid     . 
yma  /n/  hwy  amen  howel  (35) 

mae  trvm  ifach  mae  tyrav  main     . 
a  baro  duw  byw  ar  does  (36) 

meirch  a  gwyr  marchoc  vrienn     . 
kyw  Edn  o  went  kadwyn  avr  (37) 

Y  gwr  o  ddysc  a  rydd  win     .     . 
a  choron  Jovk  ich  rrann  el  (38) 
doe  treissiaist  y  tir  jfessv     .     .     . 
El.  a  Sices  i  lys  Jessv  (39) 
Mae  vn  hyddgarw  main  hawddgar 
dy  oes  fo  pvmoes  fab  hael  (40 1 
Mae  .  r.  byd  on  mawr  wybodaeth     .     .     . 
del  yno  dal  yw  Enaid  (41)  .  151 


a 
h 
c 
d 
e 
f 
9 
h 


Gvtto  or  glynn 
1511       Rys  Kain 

lewys  mon 
1517  ■    Rys  Kain 
^519  .      „        „ 
^519  ■       „         „ 


I  ■        JJ  » 


*  The  ends  of  most  lines  are  wanting  in  these  poems  (pp.  149,  247,  265). 


POETRY  BY  K.   KAIN  AND   OTHERS. 


4.6d 


.  15T9  .     Rys  Kain 

■  i51§  .        „ 

.  «77  . 
.  ISTI  . 

1516  . 


Tudur  aled 


151$  ■     Rys  Kain 


1511 


198       Oeres  ynn  Er  ys  Ennyd     .     . 
y  prynnwr  piav .  r/  Enaid  (42) 

205       Yr  hydd  ai .  oc  ya  Rvddavr    . 
ywch  lewys  yn  Jach  lawen  (43) 

212       Y  gossawa  raawr  gwissgi  main 
a  roer  ytt  Eryr  Evtyn  (44) 

219       Hwde  voliant  Uwyddiant  Uv     .     .     . 
a  ro  Eiuioes  ir  wyneb  (45) 

224  Triffeth  pob  tir  ai  hofifyu     .... 
Gann  dduw  dad  gynyddv  does  (46) 

225  Yr  hydd  an  parch  rroddwin  pvr     . 
oes  hen  ytt  mastr  Sion  Evtynn  (47) 

234      Gwnn  vdfawr  gwyno  adfyd    .     .     . 
roi  oes  hir  ^  aerea  hwnn  (48) 

241       O  diiw  mawr  wedi  .  r .  awr  drom     .     . 

ac  vnllaw  am  gannllv  oedd  [1-  82]  (49). 

247      ILawn  fv  irder  Hann  vorda*     .... 
Ynill  denw  yn  llwyd  vnwaith  (50) 

252       Yr  Eryr  mawr  J  wryd     .... 
dy  fawl  a  bwyssa  dy  farch  (51) 

258       duw  .  n  .  lanaf  dawn  a  Ivniawdd     . 
dwc  yn  vn  devgain  Einioes  (52) 

261       Eraill  a  fynn  orr  Uv  fed     ...     . 
aed  irr  vn  dyn  dewra  /n/  does  [53] 
MS.  68  should  follow  here. 

265       Y  keirw  mawr  y  kair  i  medd*     .     . 
err  deigr  mair  dec  arr  i  mab  (74). 

272       Ifawn  i  hil  nev  wehelyth     .... 
roi  naw  oed  seth  arnad  Sion  (75) 

278       Y  mae  Eryr  val  morvdd     .... 
dros  havl  fodidrys  a  hwnn  (76) 

281       Devwr  hwnt  val  blodav  rros     .... 

yn  i  faddav  nef  vddyn  (77)      Jeuan  ap  Tiidiir  pennllynn 

287       Krist  Enwoc  dwysoc  dewisol  geidwad 
groessi  dy  wyneb  o  grist  Enwoc  (81)  . 

293       Ebron  wlad  bronn  olevdec     .... 
Tomas  gan  dduw  ytt  yma  (82) 

299      Hawdd  vyd  heddyw  J  [ ] 

hiraeth  hagr  hwyr  ith  ddygaf  (83) 

303       Y  ddav  gyw  oedd  wy  [ ] 

arr  groywddwr  y  gorweddynt    .... 
Tremeirch  dros  Eleirch  y  sydd  (84) 

307      Dvw  greawdr  nef  a  dayar    .... 

diiw  gwynn  ath  law  dwc  ni  ith  wlad  (85) 

312       [ ]  ym  kvr  sy  drymoer     .... 

diiw  yno  aed  ai  Enaid  (86)  ■  15ig 

318       Vn  duw  nodded  ynevddwr     .... 

dewr  filwr  o  dref  wylann  (87)  •  15ig 


Tudiir  aled 


.  1518  .     Rys  Kain 
Gutty n  Owain 


P 


1519  •     Rys  Kain 


151§  . 


Giitto  or  glynn 


llawdden 


dd: 


nanmor 


Rys  Kain 


470  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   69. 

324       [ Jr  pa  ryw  ai  medd^    .  '  .^i,     .       n'i'  r^r      a 

oed  hw7  /n/  y  byd  ]f  ti  .  n/  benn  (88)  .  137^  .    Rys  Kain 

330       [ ]  neb  lanach     ....  ''6 

diiw  dair  Ge[ ]  (89)  .  1380  .  „ 

333       Yr  hydd  gwar  rrwydd  a  garwnn     ....  ;'■.;      c 

o  ais  prafF  Tomas  ap  Rys  (1. 12) 

336  The  previous  Cywydd  is  left  unfinished  and  this  page  blank. 

337-8  a  fragment  of  a  leaf  repaired. 

II  vn  difost  yn  bendefic     ....  d 

OBSod  dwyoes  y#    howel  .  i5§1  .      „        „ 

344  Y  plas  nemydd  ytnon:    Plant  Robert  gr.  o  Angharad  vj  Elissay  ap 
Morys ;    Morys  gr:  ysgwier  /  Koland  &c. 

345  Ai  gwir  kwympo  gwr  kawtpvs     ....  e 
GnifEdd  ....  devddwr     .... 

bid  ir  gwr  bedr  Egoriad  (80)  ho'l  Kilan 

349  Marwnad  plant  Jeuan  Mredvdd 

Y  meibion  yn  i  mebyd     ....  f 

\Tj  i  adael  yn  lie  i  vrodyr  (81)  Bi/s  Kain 

355      Rown  y  gamp  ir  h*nn  a  gad     ....  g 

glain  nod  dynion  glann  Tanad  (82)  G.  Hiraethoc 

359       na  chredwn  i  wych  rediad     ....  h 

yngolav  diiw  angel  doeth  (83)  .  15§2  .     Bys  Kain 

365-6    Roger  pilston  |  marwyr  haf  mio  («c)  1587  (  ai  gladdr  yngressford.  | 
Plant  Eoger : — Eo.  pilston  Siors  a  dorethi.    Rest  blank. 

367       Arwyddion  saesson  ai  sel     .     .     .     .  i 

pawb  a  ddyfod  pab  ddafvdd  Tudur  Aled 

375       Piav  Troyaf  pe  trewynt     ....  k 

....  a  dydd  kann  nos  daed  Lewys  mon 

381       W[yl]ais  achos  [ ]     .     .     .     .  / 

a  gar  enaid  [......]  Lewe\_s  ?  mon'] 

386    Blank.'    Pages  387-385  are  fragments  merely. 


MS.  70  =  Hen.  37.  The  Poetry  of  Lewis  Glynn  Oothi.  Vellum ; 
8|  X  6  inches ;  96  pages  with  two  Columns  to  a  page ;  early  xvith 
century  ;  bound  in  white  vellum. 

The  titles  of  the  poems  are  in  rubric'  and' also  the  Initials  of  every  othefline  in 
some  parts  (pp.  11-34))  while  in  other  parts,  they  are  patched  with  red  (pp.  59-69). 
Large  initials  are  green  on  pages  70-75.  ;  Pages  1-10  &  89-96  are  blank.  %is  MS. 
like  Pen.  MS.  109  belonged  atone  time  to  Gr.Dwnn  :  "  Uyma  law  gryffyS  dwnn  ynn 
p)-o*penn  mywn  llyfr  a  wnaeth  lewys  glynn  tothi  gynt  pann  oedd  oed  krist  1566 
J  profes  i  y  penn  yny  mann  hwnn  yma  or  llyfr  •"'  (p.  50).  On  page  42  ^e  find 
the  statement — "  llt/ma  vy  lly'ur  i'hk6  llyn"  [1540-80]  ;  on  p.  37,  "  This  ys  hwghe 
Llfin  ys  booke  Eeeorde  .  .  ef  faakyn  morgan  and  of  thomas  dauid  /  Uoid  and 
of  mony  [others]  /  of  the  parish,  of  JDevinoc  This  booke  did  coste  to  hugh  llyn 
xxii  d. "  ;  and  on  pp.  40,   86,  "  This  is  thomas  dauid  is  booke." 

11       E  gOr  ar  ped6ar  gorOydd     ...  m 

Wedi  ddel  y  drydedd  oes  L.  G.  Cothi 

h.      Er  hydd  a  gyftadla  raOc ■         .  ^^ 

B6a  y6  rys  uo  byO  ra6c . 

13       E  mil6r  ni  char  maleis ''  ''         o 

E'\a  eil6aith  yn  uelyun . 


POETRY  BY  LEWIS  GLYN  COTHI.  471 

14  E  gOr  uv  nerthur  goron ,    .     .     .  a 
Teilo  a  gattOo  Oiliam .                                          L.  G.  Cothi 

15  Mae  ffynnon  ym  haradOys b 

.  iiij .  oes  ir  pedOyryrlil 

16  E  teyrn  ar  meddgyrn  maOr c 

Bit  ar  i  6allt  bedair  oes  • 

17  M]  af  i  ganv  ym  oes     ....  d 
Ni  bCyf  ont  yr  hyt  i  bo  . 

18  Huail  kymCt  kyueiliaOc    ....  e 
A  dOyoes  roet  i  yOain . 

19  Mi  af  att  nudd  brynn  hafot / 

A  daet  oedd  da  du6  iddo  . 

20  E  perfon  bieu  r  bonedd  =  .     .    .     .  g 
Del  i  fyr  bowel  yr  rain  = 

6.      Er  hOnn  elOit  ifor  hael  =     .     .     .     .  h 

Honn  i  oet  hOnnO  a  el  = 

21  Eb  yfxOier  koleraOc  =     .     .     .     .  » 
Moes  Oeithian  ym  y  faethev  = 

23      E  teyrn  mal  traean  mon  =     .     .     .     .  k 

Aet  yr  vn  oet  ar  a[nnes*] 

b.      Mi  af  i  yfe[d  y  medd*]     ....  I 

A  du6  ni  Onaetb  dynion  Cell  .f 

2.5       E  Mab  a  el6ir  beli  maOr  =  .     .     .     .  m 

A  du6  i  adu  yOain  = 

26  E  gOr  tec  ar  gOaeOyr  tan  =  .     .     .     .  » 
Dan  aOyr  ont  nai  y6ain  . 

27  Ky6y^X   »   '^^'  ^^V^  "^P  ^h  "■P  ^^'  i*"" 

fyrthioy  oyiar  i  varch 

E  gOr  bytb  a  gar  roi  barn o 

Hyni  dyfo  b6nn  danj  p 

b.  Ky6y]>   niklas  ap  Rys  g6reang  o  goron  y  brenin  harri 

E  He6  bieur  pryt  ar  Hun     ....  p 

A  geidOr  gOr  gidar  goronn . 

28  Ky6yy  dd'  goch  ap  Ho'  ap  Einion 

Dyp  dar  gOrola  hyt  ron     ....  q 

Aur  vnOep  ar  Oyr  einiaOn . 

29  Ky6yy  M'dup  ap  M'duy  a  ganop  le6is  y  glyn  pan  oep  ar 

her6  o  achos  Jartt  penfro 

Er  eryr  o  Oarr  ar6yitl r 

Mair  i  adel  rneredyp. 

TLyma  yev  gy6yy  ir  bedo  ch6iih 

30  E  gOr  ui  dai  vOch  gOarr  dol     ....  * 
Amen  hyt  i  mynnon  hOy . 

31  Er  hyp  megys  ifor  hael     ....  t 
J  dal  honn  i  del  henaint . 

*  The  corner  of  the  MS.  is  torn  and  part  of  four  lines  are  ■wanting. 
f  Lines  27-33  are  defective. 

J  The  p  has  a  dot  over  it  in  the  MS.    This  is  one  of  the  few  MSS.  in  Welsh 
which  uses  the  thorn  for  dd. 

§  Originally  written  Il6t/t,  but  the  -6i/t  have  been  erased. 


472  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   70. 

32  ILyma  gy6yy  Jeu:  du  ap  dd'  ap  W  am,  heilir 

Kerpet  i  bum  ^  gOledyp     ....  a 

Eoes  einioes  hir  ir  dynionu.  L.  G.  Cothi 

33  Awn  puO  pafk  hyt  j'ng  lafgOm     ....  6 
A  duO  a  rann  da  i  rys 

34  [E]  Trille6  fyn  troi  6elI6ell     ....  c 
Tair  oes  vo  ir  tri  eryr. 

35  [E]  pev6r  hael  pa  i  ryO     .     .     .     .  d 
farH  penfro  e  uo  roet  uarch 

36  [D]ev6r  hael  fyn  eluael  6enn     ....  e 
A  ropo  oes  ir  pev  Or. 

37  [E]e  eleirch  ual  yr  ala6     ....  / 
Devoet  yr  hyp  doet  i  rain 

38  [P]Oyr  harp  a  chOarp  na  cherpaOr     ....  g 
A  gOeuryl  ir  drugarep 

39  [E]  gOr  hael  a  dric  yr  raOo     ....  ]i 
Del  vynghariat     **##**###-|- 

40  [M]aen  ryuep  balchep  y  byt     .     .     .     .  i 
DuG  y  raOc  i  adu  rys 

41  [E]e  yfg6ier  dan  ver6ynn     ....  i 
Na  uv  vn  nef  i  einion 

43  ILaOer  6yl  gynnllo  a  ret     ...     .  / 
Aet  i  ena  a  dauup 

44  Er  annep  Orth  yr  anneft     ....  ot 
Y  dv  bach  ar  b6bach  by6 

b.     E  g6r  a  roes  ac  a  ryp     ....  n 

Yf  del  i  einioes  i  dat 

45  E  gOr  ieuang  ual  greal     ....  o 
J  dir  g6yr  jlragoOyp .. 

46  A  mi  yn  href  gaer  Uion     ....  p 
DyOyffoc  kei-p  gOent  i  koet  . 

47  ILas  gdinOyp  melienyp  Ian  « 
J  ly6io  rent  ar  ol  rys  . 

48  E  g6alch  6edi  euror  gOallt     ....  r 
Mae  nef  yn  gartref  ir  gOr  . 

49  E  gGr  a  du6  ny  garv s 

Moes  yra6c  *****  «J 

50  Mi  af  heb  pirn  a  ovut     ....  t 
A  deuOell  •*****{! 

51  E  gOr  en6oc  or  ynys     ....  u 
DuO  yn  geid6at  *  *  •  *§ 

52  E  6raic  oreu  *#**....  ^ 
A  thalu  ph6yth  *  *  *  *  ^ 

53  E  groc  Oynn  ****#...,  to 
Am  i  gOepi  ******  ^ 

f  The  ends  of  11.  27-60  are  wanting. 

X  The  ends  of  lines  31-56  are  wanting. 

II  The  ends  of  11.  15-28,  40-62  are  wanting. 

§  The  ends  of  U.  21-58  are  wanting. 

<f  The  second  half  of  all  the  lines  are  wanting. 


POETRY  BY  LEWIS   GLYN   COTHI.  473" 

54  En  Vy  oea  •****«....  « 
^r  ch6eg0yr  «  *  *  #  #  f                                      L.  G.  Cothi 

55  E  g(ir  apOyn  *##**....  b 
E  6na  6yr  hu*  *  •  *    f 

6.        gwylad  mywn  bwryad  ybair  ych  kaffel  &c.  °  Owein  Morgan  c 

66       [PJrydyd  tra  vo  g6yd  a  g6ellt     ....  d 

Ac  yn  ne6yd  gan  ^euan  . 

57       [PJRydu  ytt  auan  buellt    ....  e 

Da  oedynt  da  duO  udun  . 

Englynion  i  Duw — An  Alphabetical  series  , 
59      ArglOyd  duG  kul6yd  y6  keli  =     .     .     .     .  f 

Am  vn  du6  am  enait  i  .  = 

•  BarnOr  y6r  g6r  a  garaf  ^     .     .     .     .  g 

Bren  a  dewin  pob  dim  = 

ChOi  yO  vn  a  thri  athrOy  =     .     .     .     .  h 

'    chOi  yfyd  goi'u6ch  y  fer  = 

60  Dy  gariat  du6  dat  o  daO  dydj.a  nos  =     ....  i 
Du6  vann6yl  h6de  venait  ^ 

Er  dy  uaner  er  dy  uoned  hael  ^     .     .     .     .  k 

Er  ^euan  6ych  a'c  6t  non  = 

IFyd  yffyd  ym  korfE  hedy6  =     .     .     .     .  / 

ffyd  6eSi  dyd  y  deudec  = 

61  Gr6r  tec  bieu  pob  deg6m  =     .     .     .     .  m 
Qwae  evoc  na  bai  gywir  = 

Heb  grift  ni  bydaf  heb  grair  y  daear  =     .     .     .     .  n 

hhn  biav  dechrev  pob  dya  = 

^Eflu  vnmab  du6  a  effyt  y  g6ir  =     .     .     .     *  o 

Jeffn  ai  vam  drofof  i  = 

62  KRift  uchot  ifot  a  gredafam  ni     .     .     .     .  p 
Krift  ^effu  barnv  i  byd  = 

Lili  r  pvm  g6eli  a  gat ./  O  loOlythr     ....  q 

Lili  an  dOc  ni  i  nef  = 

63  Mab  feffu  arab  y  fyd  yny  nef     ....  r 
Mab  g6;r  uair  mab  gOyry  i  nam 

NA6d  teulur  ieffu  yn  raffol  arnaf    ....  g 

Na6d  i  uam  ai  faaOd  euo  = 

Or  vn  tat  i  kat  pob  k6yn  .  A  Crendy     ....  t 

Onit  duO  ni  anet  dim  = 

64  PEnaf  goruchaf  or  gOyr  yO ./  ^efu    ....  « 
'    penfaa  °g6r  or  pennav  gyt  := 

Ran6r  a  Ily6i0r  y  byt  UaOn  .  /  yO  duO     ....  v 

Bo^t  da  ym"  a  roet  dCy  oes  = 

65  SAnt  a  Oyr  pob  peth  fant  y6  ef  .  i  baOb     ....  to 
Saith  dyd  faith '  nef nyd  aOnaeth  = 

TRindot  yn  dyuot  meOn  diuant .  yr  haul     ....       ,      x 
Tat  yO  ir  haul  tat  ir  hin  = 

Un  tat  vn  gariat  vn  ragorav  .  llaOn     ....  y 

Vn  ac  vn  ac  vn  yOr  gOr  ^ 

t  The  second  half  of  all  the  lines  are  wanting. 
E     98-430.  jl 


474  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  70. 

66  Yii  y  trOn  i  mae  tr6y  ynni .  |  yn  vn     .     .     .     .  a 
T  nv6  er  ioet  yno  rym  =                                    L.  G.  Cothi 

TLyma  lie  darfu  Englynion  i  Du6  . 

ILyma  deehreu  otlavr  g6yr  . 
b.     O  6in0yd  Aavyd  uyngraduel  .  gOynn     ....  b 

Huo6dl  y6  \io6el  ap  AavyA.  = 

67  Ai  Kymro  .  n  .  gOreidio  o  veOn  grym  6yth0yr  ./....      c 
Henri  ai  dyly  ar  gymry  git  = 

68  Pa  dy  o  gymry  a  dOc  ym  .  |  laOer    ....  d 
Ac  nit  a  let  gOavn  oi  dy 

69  [M]Aeftr  morgan  a  gan  ai  6yr  gOnionn  .  /  gerdd     .     .     .    e 
Meiftr  y  ften  meiftr  Hu  o  Oyr.   • 

70  MArchog  tir  gOenoc  gOae  pyn  gOan  Oedioc     ....         / 
Ar  uro  ny  gOypo  aphlOyf  gOenoc'. 

71  ELffin  itanOrin  yO  nup  .  i  laOer     ....  g 
ILenn  yO  o  arian  ar  blOyf  Han  Orin  . 

72  Rts  o  Ian  Grin  a  gOaeG  rup  .  gOniaf    ....  h 
1  maen  glepev  1                           ,, 

Cyfanhepev      j      •     •     •     •      ii 

73  *||Gr6rda  yO  ef  a  gair  due     ....  t 

Or  tte  bu  ifor  hyt  y  mor  mon 
b.      Dauup  K6yt  deurup  iieO  tirion  difalch     ...  k 

Ac  i  gair  deifi  mae  gair  dauud  . 

75  Etna  imae  dechrav  Jierp  otlev  fafbar  iarU  penfro  Acherp 

araii  la6er  heb  la6  hynny  A  6naethb6yt  iyo  pann 
yrrOyt  aUan  or  deyrnas  honn  i  vryttaen  .  Ac  i  gyrr6yt 
y  brenin  harri  i  vra6t  vnvam  i  yfgottlont  .  Oedran  feffu 
grift  oep  yr  amfer  h6nn6  .  Mil .  A  .  cccc  .  Ix  o  vlynyyey  . 
f  gCeithredoef  h6y  a  ge6ch  ch6i  yny  kronik  .  Y ge.rf 
yma  a  ganop  leOys  glyn  kothi  tra  vv  ar  her6  er  m6yn 
argl6yf  perifro. 

E  tir  ar  dOr  ir  ar  dro  .  fy  hyfbys     ....  I 

Tfpo  ir  el  y  paear  ir  . 

76  Kymry  yn  gaeth  a  aethant     ....  m 
Yn  iach  k6ngk0erv  gOlat  gymrv  gaeth  . 

78  Mar6nat  iartt  richm6nt 

Koet  y  He6part  p6y  fpardvn     ....  n 

GGeftav  hap  gGaeO  y  HeOpart  . 

80       GGin  ftaOn  gOir  a  ia/in  ftynar  gras  a  gaOn     ....  o 

Y  g6in  a  gai  .  /  Ac  ia6n  a  gOir  . 

82  Dauyp  ap  (fion)  ryp  o  Oreipyn  .  difach  (sic)     .     .     .     .      p 
Ef  yO  deOi  faut  o  vaOt  a  fion  . 

83  Aeth  fynOyr  tir  gOyr  i  geyryp  .  y  pab     ....  q 
DrOy  vlaenev  r  dieav  61at  hyt  aOyr 

84  DeOis  eginyn  **#**|.        ....  r 
Aet  oes  ac  einioes  ir  eginyn  . 

b.     Bont  Uyr  kruc  eryr  i  dan  goron  .  loegr    .    .    .    .  s 

Ar  y  gOr    ******  J 

*  A  fresh  gathering  begins  here. 

t  The  end  of  every  line  but  the  last  is  wanting. 

j  The  ends  of  Jl.  Ji-eo  are  wanting. 


POETRY  -  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  475 

8<5      leuan  ap  philip  ******....  a 

*Du  a  da  *****  #  L.  G.  Cothi 

87       Rys  yOein  rymys  (val  yr  on  o  bryd)     .... 

Nef  Geithian  (y6  rran  ywain  a  rrys)  f  b 

b.      Meirchiow  glynn  ieithon  Cyt  ♦  •  *     .     .     ,     . 

A  gOas  a  *  «  w  *  *  *|  c 


MS.  71  =  Hen.  490.  Poetry  by  various  authors.  Paper;  7f  x  5 
incLes;  120  pages — in  a  very  bad  state  of  preservation,  imperfect§  at 
both  ends,  at  the  corners,  and  outer  margins;  between  1590  (p.  56) 
and  1602  (p.  4)  ;  in  a  case. 

Pages  79-80;  81;  82-6;. 87-92  are  in  hands  different  from  one  another  and 
from  the  rest  of  the  MS.  On  p.  79  the  names  of  "  Wm,  Kerver  "  iind  "  William 
Thomas  "  are  written  ou  the  margin ;  "  1602  "  occurs  at  the  top  of  page  4  ;  and 
"  1681 "  or  "  1601 "  on  margin  of  p.  19. 

1-2  Fragment  of  a  leaf. 

3      Doe  rodes  g[  J     •     •     •  d, 

er  deigr  mair  deg  ar  i  mab  tvdyr  aled 

6  /  ofyn  march  /  i  j  forys  wyn  o  wydyr 

fyngwinev  farch  fwng  nwyfys     ....  e 

yn  kynal  ar  Ian  konwy  sion.tydyr 

10  Mar:  merch  D'.  Ellis :  [*  •  •  Jchel  a  dryclio  .   .  / 

aeth  i  ne  fyth  iowna  ferch  Hum  machno 

13  f  M'  Pirs  gr: — Y  gwynt  or  deay  gyntedd     ....  g 

er  mait  hael  ir'  mor  heli  Sir  hyw  Robert 

17  Jofyn  kyrwth  if  red:  ab  to':  gwelir  bodd  i  gler  o  bai    .    .    .  h 

dafydd  mewn  oed  dydd  ai,  tal  Gr:  ab  dd:  ab  howel 

20  Mar:  Sian  v}  huw  ap  Rhys  ap  ho:  o  dal  y  llyn 
gwraig  huw  wd  .    15§^ . 

[  *  «  #  ]ed  ir  wyf  ag  wylaw     ....  i 

well  enwant  mewn  llywenydd  ,  hvw  Robert  lien 

24  barnad  deyfab  hyw  wds  —  y  dogdor  wd  ar  dean  wd 

Y  dderwen  freisgwen  avr  frig     ....  h 

lie  da  i  wr  Uwyd  /i/  orwedd 

31  Barnad  risiard  meyryg  [ai  wraig  o  Vodorgan] 

o  dduw  ond  oer  oedd  ddwyn  day     ....  ; 

doro  nef  ir  henafi^id  morys  dwyfech 

35  Bar:  sion  konwy :    ofer  ydiw  fawr  rediad      ....  m 

ail  i  kynal  aer  konwy  sion  tydvr 

39  Bar:  i  fab  sion  wyn  abifan  ab  sion 

Ond  gwael  ywr  byd.  symyd  ?  sant     .... 

gida  diiw  i  geidwad  o  i  nai  ai  kannt. 

43       tydi  r  gwynd  tad  eira  ag  od     .     .     .     .  o 

a  chan  owdl  o  achuidiay  myredydd  ab  Rys 

*  The  ends  of  11.  1-2S,  53-60,  and  62-68  are  Tranting. 
t  The  end  of  every  linciis  in  a  later  hand, 
j  The  ends  of  nearly  all  the  lines  are  wanting. 

§  Acpording  to  the  old  pagination  folios  1-100  are  missing.  Pages  3-106  = 
fchoB  102-53. 

M    2 


n 


476 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  71. 


46  f  tnr:  hyw  owen  kyn  ifynd  ynfarchog 

awn  ot  [sic\  ior  enaid  dewrion     ....  a 

hiroes  hyw  gan  dduw  a  ddel  Sion  Mowddwy 

50  /  howel  lion  ah  howel  ai  wraig 

[....]  sy  hwn  sieswi  hael     ....  b 

hwyr  roi '  ar  fon  ry w  wr  f yth  lewis  mon 

52  Mol:  jMrj  Wiliam  wyn  o  lanfair 

y  gwalch  ir  dan  gylch  eyraid     ....  c 

wyd  o  rwy  Seth  deiroys  hydd  edward  yrien 

56  Mar:  letvis  ab  owen  amheyrig  .  15g0  . 

o  dduw  mae  oer  wedd  ymon     ....  d 

yw  law  i  nef  oleyad  Huw  penant 

60  Bar:  inr  m\o'\rys  wt/n  o  wydvr  , 

may  draw  /r/  gair  am  driwyr  gynt     ....  e 

llywenydd  oil  yw  enaid  sion  tydyr 

65       awn  i  loeger  owen  lowgoch  f 

am  heyryg  kain  or  mor  koch     .... 
doed  diwedd  da  yt  owain  lewis  mon 

68  Bar:  gwraig  Rys  wyn  o  fodafon  my  0.  ab  hyw  o  fodeon 

maenol  trwm  i  hanwyl  trwch     ....  y 

cawn  feddiant  y  nef  iddi  Hyw  penant 

73  Mol:  yr  arglwydd  Hari  [^Eshob  Bangor"] 

duw  tri  fEer[s]on  kyfiown  air     ...     .  h 

gwr  odieth  yn  pregethy     .... 

ym  angor  n  kynghori     .... 

amen  am  y  Stad  i  ni  [?  e]lis  ab  sion  am  morys 

76  Bar:  Risiad  sienswn  hen 

y  myray  ydyw  mares     .... 
slanswn  ar  nasiwn  ir  ne 

79  Mol:  Pedwar  mab  Jeuan  ab  Einon 

^van  ddewr  o  fewn  i  ddawn     .     .     . 
yn  gedernid  ir  bid  byth 

81  (Y  modeon  hon  ywr  llys  hynod  hael 
^  gael  y  fath  gan  gwyl  fair 

82  J  edwart  prys  :  [n]a  sonier  anis  anoeth 

hwn  a  hon  hyn  no  hyny 

87       Mae  gair  gwyr  am  garw  gwrol     .     . 
Morvs  afaelvs  filwr     .... 
dy  rann  porth  duw  ir  wyneb  .  15^5  . 

93  3Iol:  fViliam  gryffydd  o  garnarfon 

karnarfon  hen  gofion  gwyr     .     ,     , 
ar  Haw  genych  iarll  gwynedd 

97  Mol:  owain  ah  vhobert  owain 

yr  [h]ydd  ky  bonheddig  hael     .     . 
a  rano  yt  hir  einioes 


dafydd  alaw 

Owain  waed  da 

Hugh  Roberts) 

■     .     .     .  a 

gry^ydd  hiraythog 

(autograph)  Rys  Kain 
Wiliam  llyn 


Sion  mowddwy 


P 


100  7  wraig  kynta  Ovo:  ab  Robt.  owain  or  hayrfryn 

o  diiw  or  gwyn  draw  a  gaid     ....  « 

draw  gayray  y  drigaredd  hyw  machno 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  477 

105  J  gychwillan  :  mae  gwahodd  ym  a  gohir     ....  a 

i  hwn  eilfwaith  hen  wilym]  gydo  or  glyn 

107-20  These  pages  are  mere  fragments  in  a  tattered  condition. 


MS.  72  =  Hen.  203.  Genealogies  and  PoEXEr  by  various  authors. 
Paper;  7|  x  5|  inches  ;  494  pages;  bound  in  limp  vellum  ;  in  a  case. 

The  principal  part  of  this  MS.  (=pp.  1,  147-57,  159-72,  179,  186-237;  243-82, 
287-308,323-8,  331-2,  351-60,  363-70,  375,  380-96,  402-94)  is  supposed  to  be  in 
the  autograph  of  Sion  Tudyr  begun  in  the  year  1581  (p.  1).  There  are  various 
other  hands;  pages  53-62,  69-122,  309-13  are  in  the  autograph  of  John  Jones  of 
Gelli  Lyvdy,  and  in  his  earliest  orthography.  Pages  4,  28,  123-4,  162,  178,  180, 
184-5,  192,  213,  223,  284,  257,  262,  283-4,  314,  319-22,  362,  and  379  are  blank. 
"  Hugh  Powell  is  the  trueoner"&c.  (p.  198).  "John  Powell  is  the  true  honor  of 
this  booke  by  Mr  Kenricke  Powell  his  leaue "  (pp.  272  and  450) ;  "  Kinricke 
Powell  "  (pp.  323,  379,  492). 

1  ILyma  ddechrav  ystoriae  o  iachoedd  brenihinoedd  a  th-wysogion 
arglwyddi  marchogion  vrddolion  ysgwieiriaid  a  boneddigion  kymrv  a 
llawer  or  Gwehelaethav  /  y  tair  talaith  /  a  dosbarth  arvav  kenedl 
Gymrv  /  o  waith  Gvttvnn  /  owainn  kanis  y  llyfr  hwnn  a  dynnwyd  oi 
lyfr  ef  //  oed  krist  mil  cccce  Ixxxi  //  yu  yr  xxii  o  rrainiad  gras  y 
vrenhines  elsbeth  //  i  Gwnaethbwyd  y  llyfr  hwn  //  ac  yn  gynta  mi  a 
soniaf  am  iachav  y    ssaint  ar  santesav  &c. 

2  A  list  of  "  perilous  dales.'' 

3  dewi  ap  sant  ap  karredic  ap  kvn:  wledic — the  only  "  ]ach"  given. 

5  To  vainte  in  verte  dame  venis  praise  &c.  &c.  b 

6  Or  pridd  |  i  .  doethym  wr  or  prydda  &c.  Anon,    c 

7  Mar:  m'  Owen  Bruwtwn  .  18^3. 

Duw  a  fyn  difa  wyneb     ....  d 

dvw  Jessv  rhoed  oes  ir  rhain  Edwart  ap  Raff 

1 1    Ymannerch  dwy  chwaer :  Hiraethvs  wyf  saethwyf  son   ...      e 
ar  wir  mewn  hiraeth  y  rwyf*  jfdn  briwton 

Marwnadeu  Owen  Brvwtwn  (see  p.  7  above) 
17       dyrnod  a  rowd  ir  dyrnas     ....  f 

bvr  wych  enw  barch  vw  enaid  fevan  Lawaw' 

19       Trees  duw  anwyl  tros  dynion      ....  g 

bon  y  nef  yn  benn  nod  Robert  Jfan 

23  Mol:  i  m'  hynfrig  powel  o  fwras  (see  p.  129) 

y  gwr  inion  gyrenydd     ....  h 

bochwi  yn  Eagori  gwyr  „  „ 

Marwnadeu  Edwart  Brywtwn  o  fwras  "pen  shirif  Merion  " 
29       Doe  roedd  dvw  yn  diwraidd  dar     ....  i 

ar  yr  vnawr  ir  enaid  Edwart  Maelor 

35      Shir  ddinbych  mewn  oernich  mawr     ....  h 

a'r  ddeav  dvw  ddaed  oedd  Robert  Jfan 

41       Anodd  yw  dyscu  anoeth  I 

a  dysc  y w '  ymddiddan  a  doeth 
Anfoes  a  gair  gan  ynfyd 
tecka  rodd  Ryngy  bodd  y  byd  Anon. 

*  Hwn  "yw  [y]  kowydd  kynta  er  ioed  oi  gwaith  " — ?  autograph. 


478  PENIARTH  MANUSCBIPT  72. 

42  Mol:  Ow:  aer  Edw:  Briwtwn 

Y  karw  addwyn  krveiddwych     ....  a 
yw  mysc  foch  keidwad  amen                         Edwart  Maelor 

48       Pe  da  fay  y  byd  a  fv     .     .     .     ,  h 

bai  oedd  heb  i  wybydv 

byw  mewQ  gwall  or  ftydd  allan 

bai  mawr  heb  law  beie  man     .... 

ni  all  angel  .  .  .  na  dyn  byw  gwedi  eni 

dan  y  nef  roi  dawn  i  ni     .     .     .     . 

A  nef  in  eneidie  yn  ol  *S.  ap  Rob:  ap  Rys  ap  ho: 

53  Bar:  -S'  Wm:  Harhart  a  S'  Risiart  a  TJio'  i  frodyr  ef . 

Dawns  o  bowls ,  doe  in  ysbeliwyd     ....  c 

iarll  oi  fab  arall  a  fo  CrvttorGlyn 

ol       Ef  a  wnaetli  panton  |  ar  lawr  glyn  ebron     ....  d 

a  vydd  diogel  |  am  Vrytania  Taliessin 

63  ffydd  Rvfain  fylain  i  foli  r  pab  e 

ifydd  mam  pob  drigioni     .... 

ffei  or  pab  ai  gam  aberth 

bvrdan  gwag  ai  bardwn  gwerth  dicke  hughes 

64  Gwrando  Gyngor  Gwr  oth  wlad  / 
Ti  kay  fo  yn  rhad  y  Cymro     .... 

O  gofynyr  pwy  ai  Cant  |  dyn  dan  warant  ^esv 

In  dimyno  ar  ddvw  bob  dydd  |  Ar  ddwyn  I  fydd  i  gimrv 

69  Statvt  Gh-vffydd  ap  kynan  ar  y  gwyr  wrth  gerdd :  Lyma  y 

sawl  y  sydd  rydd  yddynt  glera,  gwr  wrth  gerdd  anafvs,  megis  gwr 

dall,  dyscibyl  spas,  a  discibyl  disciblaidd,  a  dyscibjrl  penkerddieidd,  a 

Phenkerdd  8fC ends .  Disgybyl  penkeirddiaidd  oni  ddysg  vot 

yn  benkerdd  ymhen  y  fair  blynedd,  colli  gradd  disgibl  penkerddiaidd, 
a  syrthio  i  radd  disgyblaidd  ||  See  this  Catalogue,  pp.  15, 140. 

79  /  ^thel  ap  Rotbert  o  Goed  y  mynydd,  i  erchi  march  fj 

Pwy  in  mysg  yn  pen  masgnach     ....  g 

wrtho  ef  am  diwartha  folo  Goch 

85  Bar:  Jthel  ap  Rut:  ap  jfer:  ap  Ryrid  o  goed  ymynydd'\ 

Eres  y  torres  terra     ....  h 

nog  fydd  ^thel  vchel  iach  .     .  jfalo  Goch 

94  Mol:  ho:  ap  Dd  ap  Jthel  vychan 

Y  Hew  dv,  vn  Uiw  ai  dad     ....  i 
ewch  a  dwyoes,  ych  devwedd                         Gvttvn  Owain 

97  Bar:  Sion  up  Davydd  ap  Jthael  vychan  ofron  Eirian 

Bwriwyd  terwen,  bray  torres     ....  k 

dod  ir  gwr,  dy  drigaredd  Sion  ap  Howel 

103  /  Ho:  ap  S.  ap  Dd:  ap  Jthel  vychan  ofryn  Kynddel 

Bryn  y  sydd,  o  breins  heddiw     ...     .,  .,;  I 

glana  knawd  dyn,  glain  knot  wyd :  /  Bpvi  ap  Dd: 

107  Bar:  Howel  ap  Sion  ap  Dafydd  ap  Jthel  vychan     • 

Y  groc  welioc  aflawen  //  in  troist     .....  m 
i  ynnill  y  gras,  yn  Haw  y  groc  .  /                 Gr:  Hiraethoc 

Barnadeu  S.  ap  Wm:  ap  S.  ap  Dd:  ap  Jth:  vychan 
112       Kannyn  gwue  /n/  kwyno  va  gwr     ....  n 

yn  hoU  wyneb,  llaweriydd  .  /  '  '  Wiltam  lleyn 

*  See  p.  86,  A,  of  this  Catalogue  where  the  poem  is  attribnted'to  ftno'thec  writer. 
T  ef  a  fv  farw  or  kryd  .Pen  aed  ag  Jthel  yw^laddv,j-faiiachlog~diBS«BiUu: 
pen  oedd  y  blaenied  yn  y  Ilyn  hir,  roedd  yr  olied,  ynghoady  wynydd  &c. 


.     POETRY   AND   PEDIGBEES;  479 

117       Mawr  na  welir  myrij  alaeth    .     ,     .     .     ■  a 

i  dv  Ddvw  diwedd  i  oes .  /  Wiliam  Kynwal 

125  Mar:  0.  Brvwtwn  "  aer  S.  ae  wyr'  Edwt"  ovwras  .  IS^S  . 

Vbain  a  wneth  boen  yn  ol     .     .     .     .  b 

Owain  i  nef  vniawii  oedd  Simwnt  Vachan 

129  Mol:  kynfrig  Powel  :*  Y  doethwalch  a  fendithiwjd  ...       c 
ar  hap  i  chwithay  ai  Roes  Edward  maelor 

133       Gwae  fi  gwn  gofio  ganawr     ....  d 

ai  gotfav  a  gaiff  owainf 

137       doeth  yw  mab  ysbryd  a  thad     ...  e 

gwledd  /  i  mab  /  arglwydd  /  amen        Davydd  ap  Edmwnt 

140  Plutarch  writeththat  when  Siylvras  Chseronensis  was  about  to  die  hauing 

/SO/  goodly  chyldren he  offered  them  a  bondel  of  darts  or  roddes  to 

breacke  &c.  _  r, ' 

142      Yr  eryr  glan  ar  avr  gledd     ....  / 

kynfric  barchedic  i  chwij  Edward  Maelor 

147  Genealogies  :  llyma  gyff  a  gwraidd  talyni  o  wehelaethav 
y  mars  maelor  a  swydd  y  wavnn  oil  : 

Tiidiirr  Trevorr  ap  ynnyr  ap  kadfarch  &c.  g 

148  gwehelyth  powys — gr:  maelor    ac  ywain    vychan    ac   elisay  h 
meibion  madoc  ap  meredjdd  ap  bleddyn  &c, 

6.   Gwehelyth  meirionydd — kynan  ap  brochwel  ap  ednyved  &c.  i 

c.  llwyth  Tref  valvn — evnydd  ap  gwenllian  V3  Eys  ap  marchan  ^q.  k 

d.  „       evtvn  a  sonlli  ac  erddlys :  elidir  ap  Ry*  sais  &c.  I 
e        „      dudlust  yn  traian  ;  jdon  ap  JELys  sais  ap  edu'  &c.               m 

,  149      „      Swydd  y  drewen :  Syr  wiliam  pefr  ap  grono  ap  Tiidrr      n 

b.  „       devddwr  a  mechain :  Syr  lloitsiarr  powys  ap  grono  &c,     o 

c.  brenhinllwyth  powys  wenwynwynn :  plant  grufi  ap  gwenwyn-  p  . 
wynn  ap  owain  kyveilioc  &c. 

d.  GweTielyth  hae  howel  a  chrevddvn  :  Jerth  g03  ap  mred:  &c.         q 

150  „  eJeirm'on  a  Ciwie^.' plant  0.  brogvntyn  ap  mad:  &c.    r 
b.           „         nanav  :  [plant]  kadwgan  ap  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  s 

^   c.  „         hynllaith  :  einiawnevell  ap  madoc  ap  mred:  &c.  t 

d.  „         dyifryn  klwyd :  kowrryd  ap  kadfan  ap  alaoc  &c.  u 

151  llwyth  tref  or  :  ieavaf  ap  addaf  ap  awr  ap  jevaf  &c.  v 

b.  „      nant  hevdwy  :  jerth:  voel  ap  ierth:  vychan  &c.  w 

c.  „      maelor  gymraec  :  kyn:  a  Riwallon  ap  dingad  &c.  x 

d.  „      llanerch  banna  :  3onnas  ap  grono  ap  Tiidr  &o.  y 

e.  „      penllyn :  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  &c.  z 

152  gweJiel:  y  llechwedd  isa  :  jarddvrr  ap  treharrn  ap  kynddelw  &c.  a 
b.  „      penllyn :  meirion  ap  llenwev  ap  koed  &c.  b 

153  llyma  lie  roedd  meibion  ednyved  vychan  ai  Ran  dir  i  bob  vn  :    c 
Tiidr  ap  edn:  biodd  y  nant  a  Han   kyuhafal  <fcc. 

154  Ednyved  vychan  .  .  .  a,  f v  ystvs  pennaf  a  ffeaaf  o  gygor  Hn  ap  d 
lerwerth  drwyndwn  twysoc  gwynedd  &c. 

156  Tri  mab  i  Tiidr  Trevor— illiidieka  /  dingad  a  grono  &c.  e 

156  Randir  evnydd  ap  Morien  ....  llwyth  powys  &c.  f 

157  The  rnaterrial  pedigrees  of  Grono  ap  Tiidr.:  Tiidr  ap  grono,  g 
grono  ap  edn:  vychan,  &  of  edn:  vychan.      ,.  , 

158  Jach  Dauidd  Holland :  S'  Edinond  Holland  iarll  kent  Ac,    ,    h 
159,  kymwd  y    kroes  vaen:  Syr  Roitssiart  o  kinast  /  a  fiylib/a    i 

sianjfin (/.a  wiliam /meibion gr.  0  kinast  &c,.. 

*  See  pp.  23  aboTe  ajjd.l42  beloiv.  Jidi> 

h     I  V        t  See  p.  125  above.  '   ■     ■  J  bee  p.  129  above.  .0 


480  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  72, 

163  h.  hefn  fi/airfd  kynllaith  :  kvhelyn  ap  Rvn  ap  einion  evell  &c.     a 
169  edeirnion  a  dinmael  Randir  ywain  brogvntvn  :  Howel  a  gr:  5 

meibjon  R.  ap  dd.  ap  gr.  ap  ho:  ap  gr.  ap  ywain  ap  bleddyn  ap  ywain 

brogvntvn  &c. 

173  Eng"  ifilgi  Dd:  Holland  a  nillodd  gloch  Arian  oddiar 
.  ,         wyr  Cilgwri  Medi  10  .  15g0  . 

Kyrch  gwiber  hyder  hedidd,  melin  kawn     ....  c 

kai  draw  gylch  aur  kadw  r  gloch  wen  Rees  Kain 

b.      Day  hynt  na  rhewynt  a  rhywych,  Perl  enw  &c.      Anon,  d 

174  J  Owain  brwttwn-:  Pawb  a  dyn  vwch  bryn  a  bro  ...  e 

Pen  kyngor  mavlor  amen  jfe:  Uavar 

178  aber  tanad:  jevan  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  levan  vychan  &c.    / 

181  ^  Kynfrig  ap  howel  "  angel  bwras  "  a  Mastres  sian 

Dvw  yn  rhw.ydd  yx  edyn  prif  lednais     ....  g 

ar  bob  vn  o  honvn  hwy  Rydderch  ap  dd: 

186  penngwernn  a  bostvnn :  Richiart  ap  howel  ap  jevan  vychan  h 
ap  jeuan  ap  adda  ap  jerwerth  ddv  .fee,  ending  with  a  list   of  the 
"  5  courts"  of  the  Mostyn  family. 

193  jal :  jevaii  llwyd  o  jal  ap  sion  llwyd  ap  Tiidr  llwyd  &c.  mam   i 
jevan  llwyd  .  .   .  oedd  gatrinc  salbri medd  rrol  Tiidrr  aled. 

199  llyweni  :  Syr  Tomas  o  salbri  ai  vrodvrr  /  hari  /  sion  /  Robert  /  k 
ffowg  deon    llan    elwy    ai    chwiorvdd  elsbeth  /  sioned  /  kwstana  /  a 
katrin  .  &c. 

204  swyddinbych :  fiowk  llwyd  ap  pirs  llwyd  ap  liiiw  llwyd  &c.        I 

205  dyjffryn  klwyd:  Simwnt  ffelwal  ap  Richart  ffelwal  &c.  m 

206  ysbyty  yn  Swyddinbich :  Robert  /  ho'I  /  morvs  /  dd  /  kydwal-  « 
adr  /  eva  /  gwenhwyfar  /  marged  /  anes  /  katrin  /  elsbeth — ^plant  oeddynt 

•  i  Rys  ap  mred:  ap  tiidr  &c. 

209  Rvc  yn  y  deirnion :  Rob:  salbri  ap  S.  salbri  .  .  ap  han'  ddv  &c.  o 

214  Dyffryn  klwyd  :  iach  gr:  g05  ai  frodvr   dd:    vwrtais  /  dwna  /  p 
gr:  g05    deio  mwyn     meibion  oeddynt  i  ]euan  ap  dd:  vychan  &c. 

215  vionvdd :  Plant  sion  ap  mred:  ap  jeuan  .  .  ap  gr.  ap  kynan  y 
i,e.  morvs  /  owain  /  gr:  /  jevan  /  katrin  /  elen  /  marged  /  lowri  /anes  &c. 

217  Powys :  Mathe  goj  or  dre  newydd  ai  vrodyr  ohl'er  /  mastr  r 
prys  vikar  keri  /  sion  meibion  Tomas  ap  R:  ap  dd:  llwyd  &c. 

218  llwydiarth  ym  howys  :  plant  howel  vychan  ap  ho'I  ap  gr:  .  .  .  s 
ap  vchdryd  vrenin  dyved  =  gion  wnfEre,  lowri,  mallt  &c. 

221   Cars  y  gedol :  Rys  vychan  ap  W""  V.  .  .  ap  osbwrn  .  &c.  t 

224  ffystvnioc  :  S.  ap  lewis  ap  ]fevan  ap  dd  .  .  ap  os:  wyddel  .  &c.  m 
227  SIR  FERIONYDD — llan  vihangel  y  traethe :  Robartwyn  ap  sion  v 

ap   leuan  ad  R:  ap  ]eu:  ap  anion  ap  gr:  ap  H:  ap  kyn:  ap  osbwrn 

■wyddel 
b.  Penllyn:  dd:  ap  mred:  ap  ho'lap  tiidr  .  .  .  .  ap  ririd  flaidd.  Ac.  w 
229  gogar[dd]an:  sion  prys  ap  Richart  ap  R.  ap  dd.  llwyd  ap  dd:  x 

ap  Rydderch  ap  ]euan  llwyd  ap  jeuan  ap  gr:  voel  &c. 

231  Powys  :  edw:  herbert  vab  syr  Ritsiart  H.  o  dref  faldwyn  &c.     y 

232  mathafarn :  hiiw  ap  jevan  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  H  gr:  &c.  a 

235  mowddwy  nant  mynach :  jevan  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  sion  ap  dd:  a 
llwyd  .  .  .  .  ap  pradwen  vn  or  xv  llwyth  gwynedd  .  &c. 

236  tal  llynn  :  ]en:  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  leuan  .  .  ap  prediir  peiswyrdd.  b 

237  Plwy  llan  danoc  o  vewn  ardvdwy  :  plant  rritsiart  ap  owen  ap  c 
gwilim  .  .  .  .  ap    tangno  =  wnffre  /  gr:  /  tomas  /  Wiliam  /  elsbeth  / 
elin  /  sioned  /  gatrinc  /  marged  /  gwen  ac  anes  &c. 

b.  harleph :  Rob:  ap  jeu:  ap  morgan  ap  siankin  . .  ap  riwallon  llwyd.  d 


PEDIGREES  AND   POETRY.  481 

238  Carol  ne  gondid  yn  dangos  jyj  moddion  0  ddiate  [=  diet'\ 
dillad  dotoke  Hunfrey  jaij  weision  . 
Holl  gymdithion  weigion  bwrse     ....  a 

givan  iawn  iw  stoke  duwke  Hunfrey     .... 
gan  moia  worth  kliae  duwke  Hunfrey  Hugh  Gryfid 

243  plant  U  ap  edn:  ap  gr:  ap  eingon   ^c.  =  dd.   evtvn   a  R.       b 
a  morgan  a  madoc  |  llevkv  |  gwenhwyfar,  eva  a  katrinc  &e. 

245  maelor  gymraec  :  wiliam  almor  ap  edwurt  almor  &c.  c 

246  maelor :  elis  ap  elis  ap  Ritssiart  ap  ho'l  ap  morgan  &c.  d 

247  maelor  gymraec :  plwy  riw  abonn — William  llwyd  ap  sion  e 
llwyd  ap  Rondyl  .  .  .  .  ap  tiidr  trevor 

6.  maelor :  Richart  ap  Robt:  ap  dd:  tegin  .  ,  .  .  ap  riwallon  .  / 

c.  plwy  hamer :  tomas  ap  owain  ap  jerth:  .  .  .  ap  edwin  .  g 

„        „    — fEylib  bryd  ap  dd:  bryd  hen  .  .    ap  tiidr  irevor  .        h 

248  Maelor  saesnec  xpangor  ac  owrtvn — Roitsiar  ap  dd:  ap  Roesiar   i 
ap  dd;  ap  siankin  ap  .  .  .  .  sion  opdwn  . 

6.  Maelor  saesnec  :  Tomas  ap  sion  owrdvn  .  .  .  .  ap  sion  opdwn  k 

c.  plwy  hamer  :  wiliam  llwyd  ap  W.  llwyd  .  .  ap  Tiidiir  trevorr.  &c.  I 

249  Maelor — plwy  gresffordd  :  meibion  Robt:  ap  dd:   ap  gr:  ap  m 
dd:   syttyn   ap    dd:  .   .  .  .  ap    Tiidvr    Trevorr  =  gr:  /  syr   ho'l/dd/ 
morgan  /lewis 

250  Maelor :  edwart  ap  Botsiarr  ap  S.  ap  elis  .  .  ap  T.  Trevor,  n 

251  Trejfordd :  Tomas  trevor  ap  edwart  ap  Robart  .  .  ap  T.  T.  o 

253  riw  abon  :  sion  ap  dd:  ap  madoc  ap  dd:  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  &c.  p 

254  „  sion  ap  edwart  ap  dd.  ap  sion  ap  siangin  &c.  q 

258  Ruddlan  :  sionn  konnwy  ap  sion  k.  ap  .  .  .  iarll  konias .  r 

259  syr  ho'l  ap  dai  ai  vrodvr  siankin  dekaf  ithel  anwyl  R.  wyn  &e.  s 
261  Dd:  llwyd  ap  bleddyn  ap  gr:  ap  heilinn  .  .  .  ap  edwin  t 
263  tegaingl :  plant  Rotpert  ap  ierth:  ap  rririd  .  .  .  .  ap  ednowain  u 

bendew  =  ithel  /  kyn:  /H  . 

265  llan  evrgen  :  elis  wyn  ap  ^euan  ap  ithel  ap  dd:  ap  ithel  fychan  v 
.  .  .  .  ap  ednowoin  bendew 

267  llan  hassa  :  edwart  ap  morgan  .  .  .  ap  edn:  vychan  o  fon  .  &c.  w 

269  Rhandir  jthel  velynn :    pedair  tre   yn   ial  llvs   y   kvl  /  allt  x 
gwmbobws  /  bod  anwydoc  /  koytrwc  &c 

b.  ystradalvn  :  lev:  ap  ithel  ap  gr:  ap  pelynn  .  .  ap  ithel  velyn        y 

270  6.  jevann  ap  sion  wyn  ap  gr  .  .  .  .  ap  ithel  v.  z 
c.  meibion  gr:  ap  nigolas  ap  sion  .  .  .  ap  ithel  v.         a 

272  ial :  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  .  .  .  ap  ithel  velyn  ap  it.  avr  dorchog     b 

273  plwy  riw  abon :  Sion  ap  Sion  ap  madoc  .  .  .  ap  ithel  v.  &c.      c 

b.  S.  ddinbych — plwy  aber  gele :  lewis  ap  dd:  ap  gr:  ap  mred  &c.  d 

c.  degaingl — plwy  bodvari  :  Wiliam  ap  Tomas  ap  Robt:  &c.  e 

274  -wiliam  holant  ap  dd:  holant  ap  hwisgin  holant  &c.  f 

275  Swyddinbych — kwmwd  isdulas  plwy  aber  gele — pirs  ap  Sion  g 
owain  ap  gr;  ap  madoc  vychan ap  jarddvrr 

6.  llan  sannan :  mred:  ap  gronw  ap  gr;  gethin  &c.  h 

276  barwniaid  brynffenigl — Rolant  ap  Rolant  ap  mred:  ap  sion  &c.  i 
b.  yrvn  bedws  :  sion  ap  R.  wyn  ap  ]evan  ap  dd:  llwyd  &c.  k 

277  Swyddinbych :  Sion  llwyd  /  hiiw  wiliam  Syr  dd  risiart  &c.  1 

278  llanfair  dolhayarn :  owain  ap  sion  wyn  ap  jeuan  &c.  m 

279  hiiw  konwy  a  sion  a  R.  a  dd:  a  marged  .  .  .  plant  Robyn  ap  n 
gr:  goj  ap  dd:  ap  madoc  .  .  .  ap  marchiidd  &c. 

285  Moesen  ber  awen  or  brig//mae  eisiaw     ....  o 
gwraidd  na  dysg  a  gerdd  yn  dol                             Mys  kain 

286  Ehiimengawl  v£fernawl  ffyrnig/yw  ^fan     ....  p 
gyw  lletraws  i  gallatra                                                    (?)  F. 


4S2 


■1>EN-IARTH'  MANUSCRIPT  72. 


287  Mred:  ap  dd;  ap  einion  vychan  ap  levan  ap  R.  wyn  &c. 

289  Ejw  ennaint  da  i  fraint  ai  fri  or  anger  &c.  a 
b.       Ennaint  per  y  saint  Pair  oes  hir  a  nwyf  &c.  h 

~      c.       krvchais  kwvnais  kanawr//yr  herwydd  &c.       y  bardd  dv  c 

290  edynowain  bendew  ap  kynan  feiniad  ap  gwaith  foedfawr  &c.     d 
b.  elystan  glodrvdd  ap  kyhelyn  ap  ifor  ap  sevirws  &c.  e 

291  tegaingl :  Plant  Rotpert  ap  -jer:   ap   Ririd  ....    ap  edn:  / 
bendew  =  ithel  /  kyn:  /  fln  /  marred  /  llevkv  / 

'  295  Plant  ithel  vychan  ap  kyn:  ap  Rotpert  &c.  =  dd  aikyn:  ao  g 
angharad  /  morfydd  &c.  Ac. 

301  llyma   val    i  disgynodd  pendeftgiaeth,    Tiymrv    ir  yn    oes  h 
•  maelgwyn  gwynedd  <&c. 

304  llan  lidan :  Thomas  ap  hofwel  vychan  ap  gruff  &c.  i 

305  plant  howel  ap  sion  =  hari  vychan  /  sion  wyn  /  katrin  &c.       k 

309       Mi  a  evthvm  ir  Mwythig     ....  I 

tir  fierm  Gvtto  yw  yr  ffotied  Gvttor  Glyn 

313       Hoyan  borchellan  barchell,  bro  tn 

beth  am  vikar  llan  Deilo 
ni   threilwys   geinog  nis  rroes 
nid  oes  //  vn  geinog  kantho  Gr:  ap  Nikolas 

315       y  sieri  kymwys  irwych     ....  n 

sion  gryffydd  .  .  .  brenin  tegaingl     .... 
ras  i  sir  i  ros  a  sion  "Richard  gele 

323  llan   evrgefi :  Tomas  ap  Howel  ap  -fevann  ap  dd:  ap  ithel     o 
vychan  .....  ap  ednowain  bendew  .  &c. 
328  Swyddinbych — dd:  o  holant  ap  pirs  holant  ap  sion  hoi:  &c.         p 

331    SlKYDDION    SIB   T   FFLTNT    IR   PEN   ABTH    KTMRV   TN    TIR    SIR 


1  syr  Roger  pilston 

2  pirs  myttwn 

3  syr  tomas  hanmer  hen 

4  syr  sion  howlphor 

6  Eondyl  Uwyd 

'  6  sion  edwart  hen 

7  hari  conwy 

8  sion  griiff: 

9  syr  sion  salbri 

10  syr  sion  masi 

11  sion  Davies 

12  Richart  gravener 

13  pirs  mostyn 

■14  syr  tomas  hawmer 

15  Raffdottonn 

16  syr  Rocher  briittonn 
■^17  ssion  gr: 

18  wnifredvmoc  ■ 

19  sion  conwy 

20  Wiliam  hammer  seiner 

21  wiliam  mostyn  seiner 

22  sion  trevor 

23  hari  pap i  , 

24  Wiliam  mostyn 


25  sion  griiff 

26  Wiliam  Mostyn  seiner 

27  Rocher  briitwn 

28  Rocher  pilston 
'29  sion  trevor 

30  syr  tomas  hanmer 

31  Wiliam  Mostyn  seiner 

32  sion  griiff: 

33  PierS  mostyn  iuinor 

34  Rocher  pilston  j  unior 

35  lansle  bostoc 

36  Wiliam  mostyn  juinor 

37  sion  edwart 

38  thomas  mostyn 

39  George  ransgraffe 

40  hari  pari  .  • 

41  Roger  briiton 

42  Pirs  gruff:  ■   >,  • 

43  Syr  hvw  jhomleve 

44  sionn  hanmer  ^^ '       ■      >- 
■  45  sion  konwy 

46  sion  hob  [?1586]      . '•. 
47*Tomas  mostyn  ■  ; 

48  wyliyam  hanmer.  er  fense 


*  No.  47  to  the  end  in  this,  and  No.  46,  &c.  in  the  following;  list  are  in  various 
bands. 


THE  SHERIFFS   OP   FLINT  AND  DENBIGH. 


483 


49  Peyrys  trefor  ? 

50  Peyrys  gruffeth 

51  Johne  lloyd 

52  Eoger  Brereton 

53  5fevan  Edd:  o  lenden 

5+  .WyUyam  thomas  Gruffeth 
329  Tomas  Ranskraft 

56  Robert  daves 

57  Wyllyam'hanmer  or  fense 

58  Eogar  pulston 

59  Tomas  euanes 

60  John  Conway 

61  ■wilh'am  dymock 


332 
1 

2 
3 

4 
5 
6 

7 


SIRYDDION  SIB  DDINBECH 

sion  salbri  siambyrlenn 

syr  sion  salbri 

syr  sion  pilstwn 

sion  pilystwn  tir  mon 

sion  owen 

Eobt:  salbri  o  rvc 

sion  edwart  or  waTn 

8  kydwalad  ap  morvs 

9  Robert  wyn  i  fab 

10  toctor  elis  prys 

11  sion  lloid  oi  ial 

12  WUiam  mostyn 

13  edwart  almor 

14  Robert  massi 

15  ffo-wk  llwyd 

16  tomas  bvlet 

17  doctor  elis  prys 

18  edwart  almor 

19  Robt:  pilystwn 

20  Eobt:  ffletsierr 

21  tomas  ap  morvs 

22  Eobt:  ap  hvw 

23  sieffre  holant 

24  sion  Wiliamse 

25  edwart  conwy 

26  hvw  pilstwn 

27  Jeuan  lloid  oi  ial 

28  ffowk  lloid 

29  toctor  elis  prys 

30  Robt:  pilstwn 

31  edwart  almor 

32  simwn  ffelwal 

33  toctor  elis  prys 

34  Eobt:  wyn  ap  kydwaladr 

35  syr  sion  salbri 


62  Eogar  ssalberei 

63  John  lloyed  regester 

64  Gorge  Ilope 

65  syr  John  Conwye 

66  syr  Thomas  Hanmerd 

67  Thomas  Earistkrafte 

68  , Robert  Davis 

69  Syr  Roger  Mostinne 

70  S/yrWilliamHanmerorffence 

71  Thomas  Hues  ore  nant[  .  . 

72  Peiter  Pennant  of  bigj  Pgtaa 

73  Thomas  mosten 


36  edwart  sionse 

37  sion  wyn  ap  wiliam 

38  Priers  holant 

39  tomas  ap  morvs 

40  sion  prys  o  dderwen 

41  owain  brvwtwn 

42  edwart  hvwse  or  hold 

43  Jeuan  lloid  oi  ial  ^^  ': 

44  Pirs  owen 

45  hari  pari  ;  - 
46*  wiliam  wynn 

47  wyllyam  Almore 

48  Owen  Brereton 

49  Edward  Ettone 

50  Edward  thewall 

51  Tomas  Powell 

52  ffowlke  lloyd 

53  Harry  stp  f evan  lloyd 
64  Grufi'eth  wyn  o  lanrwst 

330  tomas  wyn  ap  Rychart 
56  dd:  holant 
57'  syr  Robert  salbrev      '"'^-' 

58  Edward  Brereton 

59  Tomas  presse 

60  wyllam  meleton  .-  "i 

61  owen  vachon  of  llan  gedwyn 

62  dd:  holant 

63  Edward  Eyton 

64  John  Iioyd  regester 

65  Kadwad  win 

66  syr  John  wine     '        ''■''^' 

67  Euan  mreaddth  \Js^c'].'"'^' 

68  Morgan  Broughten 

69  Mr  Hughfe  G*riime  Griffith 

70  sir  Richard  Trevour 


333 


338 


Kymry  a  lloeger  tynnas  glyd 
Eowch  ych  bryd  i  mendio  . 
gidar  frenines  elsbeth 

trymheais  vwch  trvm  heol  ' . 
syr  iyfan  waiw  llymdan  llwyd 
vwch.heol  mars  ych  ail  mwy 


Radar  Kyffyn 


Owen  briwtnn 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  72. 


344  A  repetition  of  the  previous  kywydd  with  some  lines  omitted  and  a  few 
fresh  lines  inserted. 

348       Ynghvr  aed  yngho  /  r  /    adar     ....  a 

marw  ....  a  wnaeth  fy  llamysten  /  i  /     .... 

da  vodd  dafydd  holant    .... 

be  troe  bawb  boed  hir  j  boeh  Ow:  briwtvn 

351       mawr  fv  alar  myrfolaeth  j 

nid  ai  neb  .  .  .  heb  dy  jeuau  ab  dd:     .     .     .     . 

paradwya  gwepra  ydoedd     .... 

llyweuydd  611  yw  enaid  lewis  t?ar[o]« 

355  Araith  y  kelioc  bronfraith 

Dyma  yr  ymddiddan  dedwydd     ....  c 

oni  gerfyddom  i  eilwaith  gwaith  brys  oddiar  dafod  lyferydd 
361       nyd  gwayth  doctore  kymcor  doeth  &c.  d 

b.  wrth  weled  dayed  uw  dysk  brontor  &c.  e 

c.  Triffeth  a  gefais  trafferth  &c.  f 

363  Medical  recipes.-  llyma  veneginiaeth  i  lygaid :  o  rroir 
svgvn  y  wermod  yny  ffroenav  ef  a  dyn  y  glybwr  dyfrllyd  or  llygaid 
ymaith  &c.  &e. 

367       bydd  drigaro[c]  arglwydd  diiw     ....  g 

sydd  yni  olwc  bevnvdd  Ho'l  ap  Un. 

371    Y  pader :  ymarferwn  ar  forav     ....  h 

drwy  go  mawr  Eac  drwc  a  men  Edwart  maelor 

373  dvw  gwyn  er  mwyn  digoni  ar  fenaid     ....  i 
bodd  hofE  iawn  bydd  ddiffynwr                                  ed:  fm  / 

374  [Ty  di  ddyn  tew  dy  ddoniav  yfc 
trais  taer  ywr  natvr  traws  tay]* 

Saith  niwrnawd  gwawd  gwiwrym     .... 

i  ddyn  i  dda  ai  ddiiw  yn  ddic  Sion  kent 

377       y  tad  ar  dechrevad  chwyrn    ....  I 

yn  rydd  a  chwbwl  on  raid  Doctor  fohn 

380  K.  i  gyrsafv  Sion  trefor  trefalvn  .  .  .  o  Rvfain 

Maelawr  wen  mawl  a  ranwyd     ....  tn 

ac  i  wlad  i  dad  i  del  Sion  Tudrr 

383  Mar:  jfeuan  ap  dd:  ap  ithel  vychan 

Nid  vn  bwys  ac  uid  iawn  bod     ....  » 

pederr  wyn  ai  pedwar  ennaid  Tudrr  aled 

387       di  alaeth  fv  dalaith  fonn     ....  o 

a  by w  fo  /  r  /  iach  heb  farw  vn  dd:  ap  edmwntt 

389  hiraeth  gwasg  afiaith  gwisc  efyn  &c. 

390  sorri  diiw  pen  saer  da  wyd 
Baith  o  gloddaith  a  gladdwyd     .... 
vn  blaid  ne  fo  blodav  ni  Robin  ddv 

392      beth  a  ven  gwr  penwen  meun  pant  r 

ymavel  a  meuuy  syth  iaiank  &c. 

394  Mar:  dd:  ap  ithel  vychan :   Mae  kof  a  mi  ai  kwyn  ...        * 

chwech  y  sydd  chwech  oes  vddvn  dd:  ap  edmwnt 

397  Mar:  efan  ap  dd:  ap  fthel  vechan  (see  p.  388  ahove) 


P 
1 


*  These  two  lines  usually  begin  this  poem,  hut  there  is  no  lacuna  in  the  MS. 


POETEY  BY  VAEIOtrs  AUTHORS.  485 

402  Mar:  wiliam  mostynn :  bid  o  vewnn  byd  a  vynno     ...      a 
llvna  y  vann  lie  may  vo     .  1376  .  Sion  Tudrr 

407  Pwy  ywr  gwr  pier  goron     ....  h 
dan  i  nawdd  bob  dyn  i  nef                                   gi'v.^  gi"i^g 

408  da  i  llyniwyd  dyll  iownef     ....  c 
Y  mab  /  rhad  a  gad  or  gair                    dauid  :  ap :  gwilim 

410  Grassol  mair  ydwyd  dy  groessi  :  bvrwen     ....  d 
bendigwyd  bavn  diogan                                                  Anon. 

411  Kyffessu  ir  iessu  ner  oessoedd :  yr  wyf    ....  e 
af  a  dewissaf  deav  iessv                                 Wiliam  kynwal 

414  iowydd  hymod  gan  ssion  pylstwn  lien 

hen  ddelw  honn  addolynt     ....  / 

pe  :  pallai :  nrhaed  /  pob  He  /n/  rrydd  lewys  mon 

417  kyfarch  ddyn  iach  i  ddiiw/ne//  yn  gadarn  &c.  g 

b.  Hyd  angav  yn  glav  pawb  glyn  yw  afel  &c.    W,  kynwal  h 

c.  praw  gydymaith  maith  wrth  ymwrthio  ar  byd  &c  „  i 

d.  mil  a  phedwar  kant  heb  ddim  mwy  &c.  k 

418  EsGLYNWif — (1)  pen  losges  pen powls ;  (2)  pen  las  llywelyn  yn  myellt ; 

(3)  t  ka  ddrygav  wigmoT  treth  amyl ;  (4)  pen  las  gwartheg  mon  ; 
(5)  henwer  y  xii  arwydd. 

419  Mar:  yr  hen  ssion  amhadawc  pilstwnn 

wylofya  wyf  val  afon     ....  I 

a  chynnydd  ir  wreichionen  gvtto  :  r  :  glynn 

421       Meddylio  am  addili  m 

ddvw  ai  fam  i  ddydwy  fi     .     .     .     . 
wrth  raid  im  enaid  amen  R.  goch  a  lyndwrdwy 

423  suddas  :  vradwr  /  ywr  /  gwr  /  a  gai  arian  gwarth  /  er  gwertliy  r  mab  /  dyr- 
ogan  tithav  maer  gair  ytt  weithian  /  vwrw  o  honot  ti  vair  yn  tan        Baff  ap  R't 

b.       a  vo  call  mewn  dyall-  da  ef  arbed  &c.  n 

424  llythr  vn  pivbliws  lentvwlws  gwr  vrddasol  a  phroconswl  dros'y 
rhvfeinwyr  yn  asia  yn  yr  hwn  y  dyscreir  yn  berfEaith  svt  a  11  vn  jessv 
grist  ...  a  scrivenodd  ef  at  y  seneddwyr  &c. 

425  er  ffrydiaii  gweliaii  gteyWon  /  ir  jesii  &c.  tildiir  aled  o 

426  Ty  di  ddyn  tew  dy  ddoniav  &c.     (see  p.  374  above)  p 

429       lessv  hwde  yn  nyfosiwn     ....  q 

oes  oesoedd  ith  lys  jessu  doctor  sion  Kent 

432       Y  gwr  vwcli  ben  goriwch  byd     ....  r 

Yma  ddiiw  /  nef  /  madde  i  ni  dd:  ap  Bys 

434  chwerw  gwmpnieth  ni  chara  &c.  s 

435  gwrandawed  yr  hoU  bobloedd     ....  t 
merch  sy  deka  /n/  y  nefoedd     .... 

pann  vytho  /r/  wlad  yn  gwxandaw  wiliam  kynwal 

445       blin  yw  dan  blanned  wenwyn     ....  w 

marw  Wiliam  .  .  .  mostyn  hael  maes  edwin  hen  .  .  . 

na  bo  ef  heb  nef  yn  ol  Sion :  tudr : 

451       Y  keirw  mawr  y  kair  y  medd     ....  v 

ir  deigr  mair  dec  ar  i  mab  .■  Tvdvr :  aled : 

456       dwyn  pil  ith  weigil  ath  ogan  /  a  saif  &c.  Anon,  w 

b.       da  ywr  bwtler  bryf ber  da  /  y w  r  krydd  ar  taliwrr  ...       x 
gwell  klochydd  no  fFobydd  ffol  „ 


486  peniaqth;  manuscript  72. 

457       damwaia,  blin  yw  r  byd  yma     ....  a 

dav  gar  i  siasbar  y  sydd     .... 

Res  o  dowyn     Roes  diawd 

giTiffudd  o  veirionydd  i  frawd     .     ., ,    .    i, 

i  fwrw  ar  iarll  penfro  rrwyf  deio  ap  Jeuan  ddv 

460  ,    Gidac  vn  a  f^eidw  gwynedd     ....  6 

abad  ....  aber  konwy  .  .  .  mae  yn  varos     .... 

merob  dec  pei  kaid  march  yw  dwyn  Tildrr  aled 

463  ffei  garuast  viliast  fowlyd  /  i  menyn     ....  c 
ffei  iddiawl  annai  f awl' i  ferch                                 '    Anon' 

464  Mar:  T'r  llwyd :  Mawr  pwys  duw  marw  poysd  jal  .  .  .        d 

a  dyro  nef  i  deirn  jal  Tudrr  died 

468  dwr  awyr  sser  terra  /  main  &c.  e 

b.  pen  ddel  terfysc  ymysc  beirdd  &c.  dd:  ap  edmwnt  f 

c.  post  drws  biattws  a  bytiav  /  a  gwdyh  &c.  Anon,  g 

d.  gwae  fi  om  geni  am  genioc  /  o  bren  &c.  h 

e.  pais  las  gown  glas  rac  gloysion  mynych  &c.  i 

f.  ysgidie  bratie  a  brain  /  a  chwtliv  &c.  k 

469  O  duw  dad  pa  vyd  ydyw     ....  .        I 
yn  iach  weithian  dan  y,  dydd 

y  gwelom  bawb  i  gilydd  Sionn  Tildrr 

473  ssvr  yw  dy  bibe  heb  ssvtt  &e.  m 

474  Mair  yw  yn  hyder  Rhac  perigl     ....  n 
bvdd  ir  hell  ddyuionn  byw            jf.  ap  Rydd:  ap  J.  llwyd 

479       Y  byd  hyll  ar  bowyd  hwn     ....  o 

assen  grifiwnt  ssion  griiflfiidd     .... 

kyrchodd  ef  ir  nef  ar  naid  Sion  Tudrr 

483       trees  vn  dyn  at  ras  hendad  p 

tomas  syr  Tomas  y  tad     ....  , 

wyth  y  w  r  dyn  ath  evra  di  Tvdvr  aled 

486      Gwae  ni  /r/  beirdd  gan  air  y  byd    ...    .  q 

mwy  o  afrr  Siwrl  ymhwrs  siqnn  Sion  Tildrr 

490       Olwen  wchdec  Ian  echdoe     ....  r 

gan  waith  serch  gwenheithvs  wyd  ||  Anon. 

493  vn  a  wnaythe  htoyntmant  .  .  ac  ni  allodd  gowiro  S^c. 

gorchymyn  at  vn  wyt  /wr/  ai  harwain     ...  s 

nynnv  tan  /n/  i  tinav  „ 

494  dav  vn  tri  rif  mewn  rod  &c.  t 

b.      ni  ehleinnia  byth  moi  chlomen  om  bodd     ....  u 

i  glos  bvn  heb  gael  3'sbar  lewis  ap  edwart 


MS.  73  =  Hen.  497.  Poetbt  including  an  Inteelude,  the 
STATUTE  of  Ge:  ap  Kynan,  &c.  Paper;  7^X5|  inches;  226  pages; 
written  mostly  circa  1621  (p.  50)  ;  in  a  case. 

This  MS.  is  loose,  very  defective,  and  so  much  thumbed  in  parts  as  to  be  read 
with  difficulty.    "  Wiiliara  Johnes  is  book  "  (p.  7). 

1  llAg  yno  i  daw  yr  arglwyddes  vair  a  gwir  ofPeiriad  a  chrefydd- 
wyr  ....  ends :  ag  yno  i  daw  A.thalia,  a  chwbl  a  sydd  yn  difetha  i 
plant. 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  487; 

6.       Od  oes  vn  henlyfr  etto  a 

gan  henaint  yn  adfeilo 
gyrncch  attafi  fo  ar  frys 
chwi  ai  kewch  o  jnj  daMys  gyfyrdo  Anon. 

c.      Mor  halog  ydwyf  mor  hylyn  /  pechod  &c.  b 

2  Y  Pader :  Yn  tadol,  vrenin  tvwdod     ....     15*  c 

a  mawl,  tragwyddol    Amen  Morgan  ap  hvw  lewis 

h.      (Pel  kaid  ssaith  brenhiniaith  bron  h^d:  ai  tir)  :&c.  d 

(O  daw  d^n  a  gofyn  dann  go  :  vaddevaint)  &c. 
(Heb  arian  im  rhann  yn  rhydd  :  heb  ddvU)  &c. 

3  J  domas  llwyd  y  krwner  ai  wraig     16 

Pie  mor  deg  rhedeg  i  rodio  /  nawoes     ....  e 

ddigio  mair  dda  gymeriad  ||  Simwnt  vychan 

5  \\0  mynni  fod  yn  ddoeth  koSa  .  ;  .  .  pa  bath  a  ddoetych  .  .  , 
pa  le  i  doetych  ....  paham  i  doetych  &c. 

6.  T  d^n  a  elwir  yn  domjas  &c. 

c.  Nid  gallv  heb  dir  .  .  .  .  nid  tim  heb  ddvw     18 

d.  Gwnawn  echdoe  a  doe  a  fEob  dydd  /  a  heddiw  &c. 

6  /  dwm  y  hlogg:  Ueidrlank  Uiw  morgranck  lie  marwgvog  ssydd  &c. 

6.  Howel  bangor  mewn  ysteddfod  a  ganoddval  hynn  .  15T~i  . 

Ysteddwch  kynheliwch  kawn  holi  pawb     ....  / 

mynn  mair  nas  mynnit  er  march  . 

c.  Pob  glanbeth  odieth  a  edwyn,  i  gymar     ....  g 
a  Charles  mynn  i  cherlyn 

d.  Gwell  yt  wrack  bellach  bwyllog  :  gynnil  &c.     (4  Englyn,  last  A 

illegible). 

7  Ai  lladd,  ymhob  gradd  yn  grwnn     ....  « 
61  yn61,  a  i  lywenydd                     Roht:  ap  dd:  ne  S.  Kent 

8  Ybyd:  Meddyliwn,  am  wedd  alaw     ....  k 

delom  bawb,  eb  ddidoli    84  S.  Kent,  ne  Rob:  ap  dd: 

11/  vair  :  Kalennig,  y  w  kael  enioes    ....  / 

ssyberw,  i  fynwes  Abram.     85  llowdden 

13  Mar:  yr  hen  Syr  Siow  Salbri  o  Lyweni  .  86  . 

Y  blaned,  heb  lywenydd     ....  m 
ffarwel  i  wr,  a  ffriw  \kn.j                                    Sion  Tvdvr 

18  Mol:  S.  llwyd  Regester  :  Hen  wyf,  val  fyhenafiaid  ....         n 
llawen  Alarch,  yn  llanelwy./     87  „         „ 

21  Mar:  Sion  Edwart  llwyd  o  lann  Ynys    88 

Gwnaeth,  dvw  tad,  ai  deg  radav     ....  o 

i  Sion  wir,  ssy  jnj  y  nef .   ,  Simwnt  vychan 

25  Mol:  Syr  Wm:  gr:  hyn  ifyned  ynfarchog.j     89 

Y  penn  meistr,  piav  yn  mwstriaw     ....  p 
natto  dvw,  nad  ty  di  61                                         Lewys  mon 

28  /  ofyn  gwnn  dros  Sion  wynn  ap  kadwaladr     90 

Y  karw  ^efanck,  arafwych    ....  q 
dra  \o  gwnn,  wrth  dre£  a  gwal./                        Sion  Tvdvr 

31  Mol:  Morys  wynn  o  wydr  .  13TI  .      9i 

Grvffydd  gynt  gwir  hoffi  gan     ....  r 

hen  einioes,  bo  i  hvw  nannav  wiliatn  llyn 

*  The  numbers  after  the  title  or  first  lines  are  in  the  MS.  and  help  to  show  the 
extent  of  the  lacunae. 


488  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   73. 

37  Mar:  Sion  Grvffydd  Serssiant  o  Gaerwys     93 

Y  byd  hyll,  ar  bowyd  hwiin     ....  a 

kyrchodd  ef,  ir  nef  ar  naid  Sion  Tvdvr 

41  K.  ir  hen   Wiliamt  o   Gwckvnllan     94 

Mae  gwahodd,  ym  a  gohir     ....  b 

i  hwnn  eilwatth,.  hen  wilim  ||  Crvtto  or  glynn 

43  Jr  lafarne:  \\  Y  kwrw  rhvdd  kar  yr  heidden  ....  c 
a  thafarn  ddifEaith  hefyd     loi  Risdart  phylip 

47  Karol  yn  dangos  fad  pob  math  yn  achwyn  am  arian  102 

Pob  krvstion  natvriol  gwrandewch  /n/  ystyriol     .     .     .     .     d 
o  gofyn  rhai  n  vnlle,  pwy  a  naeth  y  penhille 
I'hyw  ddyn  sydd  weithie  heb  arian  a.d.  1621. 

50  Os  kas  y  neidr  las  ar  law,  awch  yssig  ....  e 
fod  i  ni  ofyd  oi  herwydd     103                                      Anon. 

51  Hil  Vrvtvs  fab  Svlfvs,  brvtanaidd  bry[.  .  .  .J  .  .  .  .  / 
ach  kofio  am  ych  kyfri  kyfing     104      viekar  llann  ddyfri 

59  \\Mar:  Simwnt  Vychan  afv  farm  Ebrill  5  .  1606  .     109 

Troes  dolvr,  tros  y  dalaith     ....  g 

yn  foes  ym,  nef  i  Simwnt  Edwart  ap  Raph 

61  Mar:  Sion  Tvdvr  a  fv  farw  1602  .     110 

Drvd  yw/r/  gwvU;  drwy  dir  gwynedd     ....  h 

fFei  or  loes  hallt,  ffarwel  Sion  „  „ 

63  Mar:  Rich:  ap  Edw:  a  Thomas  i  vab  .  1386  .111 

Beth  ssy  /n/  vn  bwys  anianol     ....  i 

yn  llawn  o  bob  llawenydd  Edwart  ap  Raph 

66  Mar:  ssaith  0  gymdogion  da  .  IsSl  .     112 

Dyw  mor  brvdd,  dyma  /r/  brevddwyd  &c.     (a  fragment.)      k 

67  II  Ni  wna  i  pwy  ysbys  /  ai  mwrdriodd  hi  yn  drefhus  ...  I 
ffarwel  i  gwrkath  nid  a  fyth  i  garkaws         Robert  klidro 

69  y  persson  hvws :  Evrbarch  ym  gyfarch  Esgob  hael  addwyn  .  .  m 

einioes  ir  esgob  /  ai  dadwisgo     123  Robert  klidro 

70  J  vaer  dyfi :  kynnar  vardd  kanv  rwy  fi     .     .     .  n 

gwallys  wy  mi  a  gollais  hynn     124  „  „ 

72  Gwrandewch  i  wyrda  val  i  bv  r  pysgotta  .  .  .  .  /  o 
rhyngthi  a  ffwU  Eli  yn  bwrw  Ham  yr  olwyu  125  „  „ 

74  K:  ir  pysgotta  yngwlad  dehevbarth     126 

Rhoddais  y  mryd  /  ar  hyd  yr  haf     .     .     .     .  p 

ar  llav  yn  dew  /  abl  er  Uadd  dyn     (I.  I8)|| 

75  II  J  ofyn  Telynn  a  gordderch  i  Syr  W.  Grvffydd.     129 

Karw  merched  am  kvriai     ....  q 

o  cha  arall  yw  chweiriof   (1.  56)  || 

77  A  fragment :  \\  Bydd  kwyn  am  y  bardd  kynnes  .  .  .  ,  r 
rhoed  ddidrwch,  heddwch  ir  hydd  Dd.  lloyd  ap  Un  ap  Gr: 

b.  Jr  hyrtie :  Dvw  ssy  /n/  benn,  nid  oes  neb  vwch  ...  s 
yn  egr  /  ai  pyrssav  /n/  weigion      132         Simwnt  vychan 

81  7  ddvw :  BHn  yw  trailed  /  rhod  ar  hwnn     ....  t 

dann  odde  /  yn  dwyn  iddi.  /      133  Robert  ap  davydd 

86  Mar:  S.  Salbri  0  Rvg  :  0  ddvw  dad,  pa  fyd  ydyw  ...  u 

i  gwelom  /  bawb  i  gilidd     134  Sion  Tvdyr 


POETEY  BY   VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  489 

90      Fob  dyn  gwrandawed  |  fal  y  bv  yn  llandoged  ....  n 

nhw  evthyn  i  afonydd  |  ni  ddoethen  fyth  i  faenan       135 

Si/r  Elis 

95  Atteh  :  A  glowch  chwi  yr  kelwydd  |  a  Iviiiwyd  o  newydd  .  .  .  b 
ag  acr  hvw  holant  |  tros  fynd  ir  mor  beli         136 

Syr  Robt.  llwyd  (  Gwytherin) 

99  Karol  afv  rkwng  gwr  at  wraig  o  ymrysson  am  y  klos     i37 

Gwrandewch  drevthv  banes  gwraig     ....  c 

yn  jach  ir  gwr  lonyddwch  Anon. 

101  Na  cbar  gwenn  lawen  ar  ISd  &c.  &c.  „       d 

b.  f  happel  yn  Uanvair     138 

Mil  cbwecbant  lynant  ar  tair,  ar  higain     ....  e 

anrheg  R)^s  [Wiliams],  iawn  foddvs  fv.       Tomas  ap  Jeuan 

102  Y  kyttvndeb  rhiong  Robt  ap  hvto  a   Thomas  ap  Jeuan 

i  gymryd  vn  ivraig  rhyngthynt  S^c.      139 
Vy  llytbr  wyf  yw  ddanfon     ....  / 

nes  mynd  or  grawys  heibio  Anon 

106  Penn  briododd  Tomas  ap  Jeuan  ni  chae  Robt  ap  hvw, 
nar  xoraig  nar  forwyn  S^c.         140 
^fainck  gweddwon  priod     ....  g 

y  fo  ydiw  jvj  kwestiwr  gore  ./  (1.  112)  || 

111  Messvr  ar  61   Quins  drem 

Moesswch  rboddv/ch  beirddion  byd     ....  h 

havddwn  krist  *w  jvj  noddfa  .  /  Signature  lost. 

113  dyrie  arfessvr  "  dir  mi  no  harm  gwd."l 

Y  byd  yu  myned  yn  wellwell  y  sy  i 

kar  atri  garo  yn  hir     .     .     . 
o  gwrthwyneb  yw  byn  ir  gwir  Anon 

114  Er  brathav  dagerav  ti  ai  gyrrid,  im  kalon     ....  k 
mwy  yw  anair  meiriones  . 

115  ifessv  dvw  ^essv  dewisswn  i  garv     ....  / 
gida  mi  a  gadav  y  medd    143                                            „ 

118       Archwn  i  fair  a  bair  byd     ....  m 

kawn  nef  oil  kanwn  i  fair  ./     144  ,, 

120  Jache jgfahtedd :  ffalstedd  fab  enwiredd  nerth     ....         n 
aed  ath  gar  adwytb  gwirion  /     145  Hugh  arwystyl 

122  Jache  kowirdeb :  Kowirdeb  fab  hoywdeb  hedd  ./....    o 

ond  /n/  gar  vwch  vn  dan  gred  ./     i46  „  „ 

123  Y  bardd  iowndrefn  bwrdd  windravl     ....  p 
Ehys  wyn  nbwr  prys  dop  y  rhod  ./    i47    Wiliam  Kynwal 

126  Y  bardd  gwyn  ebrwydd  ganiad     ....  n 
mwynair  ddyn  mwy  nor  ddanoedd  ./  (i.  26)  ||    148  [fS.  T'r] 

127  II  ^e  ddvw  pa  ddelw  imdrowssoch     ....  j- 
ymgroessed  pob  dyn  rbag  i  gariad      151                       Anon 

129       Gwrandewch  ganmol  pryd  gwiwdden     ....  s 

yn  ymado  ai  ddvwies  bvrwen/  ||      152  „ 

131  Breiiddwyd  .  .  a  loelais  i  nosswyl  Lvwci  {Rhag.  12)    154 

Am  fi  nosswaitli  or  gaia     ....  t 

«sy  yn  karv  dvw  yn  i  galonn   ./  Rissiart  vychan  ai  kant 

drwy  gymorth  ffowk  llwyd  vychan  a  Syr  Sion  hvws. 
E    98430.  „ 


490  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  73. 

1496.   Taith  Pirs  llwyd  o  lann  ynys  ap  Sion  Edm:  llwyd 
ap   Syr  Ed:  8fc.     155 
Na  ddwg  fi  ir  farn  gadarn  gwedi  /  dy  loes     ....        a 
da  ni  roes  er  dvw  ni  rydd 

150  llyma  drioedd  mab  y  krinwas     156 

Tri  chyfing  byd  :  krav  nodwydd  ddvr  /  a  thar  arlais  ar  gelffaint  / 
a  cheniog  mab  y  krinwas  &c.  .  .  ends :  Tri  overwaith  ffydd,  hvsting 
a  byddar    a  chyffroi  y  marw,  a  chynghori  gwraig  ddrwg  /. 

1506,  Ynaw  myfyriad;  Uefa  roesson  llafar  weission  .  .  •  ,  6 

Ar  Uwyndir  /  mor  fwyndir 
He  i  rhodded  y  mawr  feudith    157  Edmwnt  prys, 

153  II  mi  a  i<tm  yn  chwilip  am  o&iriad    ....  c 
vn  or  rhain  i  rwy  i  yn  i  garv  ./ 

b.  Tri  hyd  y  gronyn  haidd  a  wna  modfedd,  tair  modfedd  a  wna 
dyrnfedd,  &e.  .  .  .  '.  ends:  ag  ymherfedd  kalonn  y  ddah»r  i  mae 
vfEern  ./    168 

154  Ystadvd  Grvffydd  ap  kynan  am  wyr  wrth  gerdd     i69 
Braint  ag  ystatvs  ar  w^r  wrth  gerdd  nid  amgen  tair  gradd,  prydydd- 

iaitb,  tevlvwriaeth,  a  cherddwriaeth  &e ends  :  Hefyd  tevlvwr 

o  ran  ^ache,  bonneddigion  Uei  gwypo  ddwyn  iache  y  gwr  ar  wraig, 
at  vn  or  llwythe  y  reiol,  a  fv  yn  dwyn  arfe  gynt  gida  ssyberwyd 
bonddigioD  i]''. 

158  llyma  henwae  y  pedair  prifgaink  ar  ddeg  a  wnaeth 

kydwgati,  a  chehelynn  /    170 
(1)  kvra  gowydd  a  wnaeth  kadwgan     .... 
(14)  irlas  goeden  o  waith  kyhelyn 

eraill  o  hen  geinkiav  :  kaink  nest  vechan  kyhelyn  &c.  &c. 

159  /  Sr.  W.Herbartpan  ddanfoned  ef  {1 0S)  [gan]  Edward 

•.If-.yn  erbyn  Davydd  ap  Jeuan  ap  Einion. 
Tri  llv  aeth  o  gymrv  gynt     ....  d 

kymrv,  a  dry,  yn  dy  raid  Gvtto  or  glynn 

161  Enwav,  koweiriav  Ttylfyddyd  kerdd  dant 

Kaniad  yr  hen  fragod  gowair :  Kan:  pibav  morfydd  &c.  &c. 
Yn  ail  ar  y  Kras  :  Kaniarf  y  twrch  trwyth  &c.  &c. 
Ydrydedd  ar  y  lleddf  gowair :  Kan:  bevno  &c.  &c. 

162  Yma  'y  halyn  My  me  ymrysson  ar  y  bragod  gowair: 

kwlwm  lleddf  garreg — kw:  korr  karreg  &c. 

b.  Pedair  gosteg  :  Gosteg  davydd  athro,  (b)  gosteg  Jeuan  y  gof, 
(c)  gos:  yr  halen,  (d)  gosteg  y  llwyteg. 

163  karol  ydifeinol  am  i  bechod  [ar  i]  glaf  wely 

Y  sawl  am  karo,  d6n  im  kwyno     ....  e 

Ag  o  daw  ymorol  pwy  a  nai  y  karol 
vn  yn  kvrio  ....  am  i  gamwedd.  / 

165       Kenais  pen  f^m  lednais  lank     ....  f 

a  genais  hi  ai  goganodd     .... 
ych  ofn  wen  oni  chaf  nawdd  (Mossier  Kyffyn) 

167  Kerais  fileinies  Ivniedd     ....    171  g 
k*  *  *  vnwaith,  kanwaith  i  kair           davydd  ap  Gwihjm 

168  Mar:  am  ssyrr  Robert  ssalbri  o  Rvg  .   isgg  .       172 

Trist  ywr  fvrn,  tros  daiar  faith     ....  h 

61  yw  enaid,  lywenydd  ./  Edwart  ap  Raph 


A  MIRACLE   PLAY  ANB  PEDIGREES.  491 

171  Mar:  Edwart  Wynnssalbri  o  glohaenog  .  1592  .    i73 

Afraid  i  neb,  fryd  yn  61     .     .     .     .  a 

dro  dolvr,  a  drvd  alaeth  (1.  44)  || 

173  {^Araith  Gwgan  ?]  ||  yn  amser  gofyn  Hetty,  oni  ddoeth  i  lynn 
koedog ;  ag  yn  y  glyn  ef  a  welai  bias  ./  ag  at  y  plas  hwn  i  kyrchodd  ./ 
ag  ef  a  glow[ai]  ganv  telyn  rawu  ai  chweiriaw  ./  ag  ef  a  dybiodd  wrth 
y  kaniad  ar  kweiriad  nad  oedd  neb  ai  medrai  ond  Gwgon  ./  ag  yno  y 

dyfod  y  pavn   bach  ...'.... ni  wnawn  i  fawr  or  mel, 

ond  bod  ar  y  || 

177  ILyma  y  dioddefaint  ynghymraec  ar  englynion  gair  kyrch 
ynessa  i  Gallwyd  wrth  ddysc  a  synwyr  a  dyallt  ai  droi 
or  Hading  ynghymraec  ; 

Enterlvte  or  groglith* 
Y  kennadwr :  Tewch  a  son  a  gwrandewch    ....  b 

ddwyn  y  traetur  oddiyma  . 

215       kas  oedd  weled  /  mewn  rhediad  e 

knaf  ar  i  Iw,  yn  kneifio  /r/  -wlad     .... 
draw  oi  golwg,  drwy  gwilydd  Sion  Kain 

219  Mol:  Syr  John  Gwynn  o  weidr  kyn  i  fynd  yn  varchog,  65 

Y  brvd  oedd  /  i  brydyddion     ....  d 

heidiav  o  hen  deidiav  da  .  /  (i  62)  || 

221  II  pilstwn  imp  hael  ysta  nerth     ....  .'e 
lie  ddelo  Sion  oil  ddaioni  y  ssir.                   Sim-wnt  vychan 

222  Owdl  0  bedwar  messvr  ar  higain  kerdd  dafod 

Penn  breisgedd  bonedd  bennod  /  parch  fowredd  ....  f 

Ath  gyd  holant  |  ath  ganmolant 
arvpr  Kolant  |  ar  vawr  haeledd  ./  || 


MS.  74  =  Hen.  367.  Pedigrees.  Paper;  8;^  x  6  inches;  180 
pages;  second  half  of  the  xvith  century;  in  two  styles  of  writing; 
pages  1-108  and  164  are  in  the  autograph  of  Simwnt  Vychan,  and 
possibly  the  rest  of  the  manuscript ;  sewn,  in  a  case. 

1  Grono  ap  tvdyr  *  #  *  edn  vychan  a  gladdwyd  y  mynachlog 
*  *  *  1331;  (6)  Tvdvr  ap  grono  ap  Edn  a  gladdwyd  1311  ;  (c)  Grono 
ab  tvdvr  i  vab  1330  ;   (rf)  Tvdvr  ap  grono  i  vabyntav  &c.  (no  date) 

LLTFR  GVTYN  TWAIN 

(e)  Plant  mad.  ap  ttn  vychan  o  vangor  g 

2  Plant  Eic.  itn,  a  gr.  trygarn  &c.  h 

3  Eivionydd :  Plant  John  ap  M'ed.  ap  feu.  ap  M'ed.  ap  ho'  &c.    * 

5  Howel  koetmor  ap  gr.  vychan  ap  gr.  ap  dd.  g03  k 
b.  Rowling  ssalbri  ap  wil.  ssalbri  ap  Hari  ddv  ssalbri                      / 

6  Rvthvn  :  Robert  tybryts  ap  John  ap  W™  tybryts  <fec.  m 

7  John  ap  John  ap  *  *  *  ap  tomas  .  .  .  ap  dd.  ssytwn  n 
b  Then  follows  the  JTwx  [Hookes]  family  of  Aber  konnwy  with   o 

their  arms  &c. 

10  Mam  dvdvr  trefor  oedd  Rieingar  V5  Ilvddyka  &c.  p 

LLYFR  Ed:  ap  RoeGER. 

1 1  Maelor  Evtvn :  Ywain  evtvn  ap  w™  evtvn  &c.  q 

12  Mon:  Mam  dd.  vychan  ap  dd.  Uwyd  &c,  r 

*  The  heading,  lines  1-28,  and  106  lines  at  the  end  have  heen  copied  from 
"Myvyrian  MSS.  Poetry  No.  XIV,  14,973  Plut.  CLXVIII.  E.  17."  by  the  late 
J.  Peter. 

N    2 


492'  PENIAETH   MANUSCBIPT   74. 

b.     Ysgeifioc  a  nannerch  :  W"  vychan  ap  ho^  ap  John  &c.  a 

14     Edeyrnion  :  Plant  Jeu.  ap  y  giwn  &c.  h 

16  Penllyn :  Elissav  ap  Jeu.  ap  M'ed  .  .  .  ap  Tvdvr  &c.  c 

17  A  description  of  the  arms  o/Kadrod  kalch  vynydd,  dd.  Uwch,  d 
Herald  ap  godwin,  Jer.  Voel  ap  fev.  ssais,  kyn.  ssais,  Howel  varf 
vehinoo,  Syr  Rys  ap  gr.  ap  ho',  Syrr  Harri  dwnn,  Syr  rys  ap  tomas, 
.....  Y  blaidd  rrvdd  or  gest,  Adam  o  went,  .  .  llowdJen,  ph.  ap 
ivor,  &c.  &c.  including  Brutus  &c. 

20  Aber  tanad  :  Jeu.  Uwyd  ap  dd.  Uwyd  e 

21  llannvair  :  John  ap  M'ed  ap  Jeu.  Uwyd  &c.  / 

22  Kymwd  ial :  Tvdr  ap  Jen:  ap  Hn  &c.  g 

23  Dyffri/nklwi/d,  llannvair  Plas  Einiawn  .-John  ap 'Roger  &o.  h 
28  D.  hlwyd,  II.  vairpentre  kvhelvn :  feu.  Uwyd  ap  gr.  ap  Rob.  &e.  i 
31  D.  klwyd,  II.  vair :  Tho'  ap  R.  Wynn  ap  Gr.  ap  Mad.  v'n  &c.    k 

34  Swydd  ddinbych — II.  vvydd:  Tvdvr  ap  Rob'  vychan  &c.  / 

35  Dogvael  ap  ithel  hael  ap  kar.  ap  k.  wledic.  Tyrnoc  ap  korvn  m 

&c ends :  fin  or  trallwng  ap  bleiddvd  ap  tegonwy 

....  ap  ft  or  trallwng. 

36  Part  of  a  letter  in  English 

37  Plant  kyn'  evell  //  ftn  /  Gr:  /  Mad.  /  Jer.  /  hoi  /  &c.  n 
Randir  Jthel  velyn  oedd — yn  fat:  lly.s  y  kilallt  gymebr  /bod  an-    o 

wydoc  /  a  choedrwc  / — y  nyffryn  klwyd :  nankl wyd  /  Garth  nevadd  / — 
yn  ystrydalvn  :  llwyn  egryn  /  Gwern  affild,  kil  Redynen,  Hendref 
biffa — ac  ynhegaingl :  kaer  vallwch  /  hendref  vikill  /  pentref  hyvaidd 
kastell  march  wion  /  a  thrayan  sswydd  y  dyfrdwy  /  a  pheth  y  maelor 
gymraec 

38  Plant   wmffre   domoc   4  merched  vn  a  briodes  John  Wyn  p 

or  groes  voel  Ac. 

39*  Plant  Meredydd  ap  vch  drvd  ap  Edwin.  q 

Plant  ithel  ap  gwrgenav  vychan  r 

Sir  veirionydd  kymwd  ardvdwy:  Twain  ap  Jankyn  ap  Eys  &c.  s 

dolgelle  :  Plant  tvdr  vychan  ap  gr.  ap  hot  &c.  t 

Gr.  Uwyd  ap  elissav  ap  gr.  ap  hot  &c.  u 

40*  Plant  dd  vychan  ap  dd  Uwyd: — kwnws  a  gwladvs  &c.  v 
The  upper  part  of  pp.  41-2  and  the  leaf  in  front  of  these  pages  have 
been  cut  out. 

43     JFoxol :  Mastr  fPowk  Uwyd  ysgwiair  ap  pirs  Uwyd  &c.  id 

arvav  whytacrs,  twtynghaol,  (44)  rossadal,  hiltwn.  x 
"  yn  henllan  ar  redd  WiUam  rossadal  ac  ^ssabel  pecoed  krift  1441." 

45     Mam  Gr.  Uwyd  ap  heilin  vrych  oedd  Nest  ...  o  ial  &c.  &c.  y 

47     Jal :  John  wynn  ap  dd.  Uwyd  ap  Elissav  &c.  z 

51  llann  lidan  :  Tomas  ap  Robt.  ap  gr.  a 
Pant  y  bvrssle :  Ed  o  kinastr  ap  Elis  o  kinastr  &c.  b 

52  John  aer  o  konwy  ap  John  aer  o  konwy  &e.  c 
54     ILeyn — ^efre  ctmio/cA  .-John  gr.  ap  J.  ap  gr.  apdd.  vychan  &c.    d 

60  Eivionydd — gwynnvrynn :  John  ap  Eic.  ap  gr.  ap  John  &c.    e 

Han  ystvndwy : — Plant  gr.  ap  Rob.  vychan  &c.     f 

61  Swydd    ddinbych^-y    ddisserth  ynglann  konnwy :  Lewys  g 

Uwyd  ap  Mered.  &c. 
G8  A  genealogical  table  beginning  with  hadwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  h 
kynvyn  and  ending  with   Gr.  wynn  S/-   Ric.  nannav — "  tn  lltfr 

LEWYS  AP  TWAIN  01  LAW  I  HVN." 

69     Mervyn   vrych  ap   Gwriad   ap   Elidir  a  ddoeth    i   wynedd    i 

J  briodi  Essyllt  &c. 
b.     llanvair :  Robert  ap  Rys  ap  dd.  ap  Sn  ap  tomas  &e.  k 


'  Llyfr  Ed.  ap  Roger  "  is  written  at  the  top  of  these  pages. 


PEDIGREES  AKD  BIBLICAL   HISTORY.  493 

c.  maenau  :  syr  dd.  ap  ywain  ap  gr.  ap  Mad.  kyffiu  &c.  a 

d.  sswydd  ddinbych  :  ^euan  ap  Rys  ap  Jin  ap  tomas  &c.  b 

e.  ssir  G.  yn  arvon — A.  nan  konwy :  Morys  wynn  ap  J.Wynn  &c.  c 

f.  D.  hhvyd :  ^eu:  llwyd  ap  tvdr  ap  gr.  ap  Rys  o  L.  verrys  &c.     d 

g.  JL.  ynys  :  Plant  ^eu.  ap  dd.  vjchan — Gr.  go5,  Twna.  &e.  e 
73  Genealogical  tab/es  :  tvdvv  trevor  ....  John  tybryst  &c.  / 
75  Rvthyn  :  Wmffre  powel  ab  Robert  ap  ho'  ap  tomas  <fcc.  g 
80  TLanvair  y  nyffrynk. — yllwynynn.-   Plant  John  Wynn  ap  li 

dd.  ap  gr._ap  ho^ 

85  JLanvair  :  Plant  Gr.  ap  twna  ap  feu.  ap  gr.  i 

86  Kac  y  nod  ne  kornwyd  y  vatwolaeth  kymer  gribav  s.inffraid  &c.  k 

b.  Meibion  Edn.  vychan,  Tvdr  picedd  y  nant  a  Ei.  gynnhaval  &e.  I 

c.  Nevyn  V5  brychan  a  vv  wi-aic  i  gynvarch  &c.  m 

d.  feu.  ap  Mad.  ap  Eys  ap  f thel  ap  gr.  « 

87  halchdvn :  Edw.  a  gr.  a  dd.  a  M'ed.  meib  Eys  ap  gr.  &c.  o 
89  Plant  Ririd  vlaid:  Madog  &c.  p 
b.  Dyffryn  k. — TLanvair. G  wraic  briodW.trevor  Sioned  v}  Rys &c.  q 

9b  Mastr  John  ssalbri  ap  Robert  ssalbri  o  rvc  ap  Pirs  ap   John  r 
ap  tomas  hen  ap  harri  ap  Rawling  ssalbri .  &c.  being  a  very  full  account 
of  the  mothers  in  this  family — 74  items  in  all. 

101  [Toma]s  ap  gr.  ap  einion  ap  f  olvn  &c.  s 

b.  Edn.  ap  aron  ap  ftn  ap  tvdr  &c.  t 

c.  Han  gernyio  :  dd.  llwyd  ap  John  ap  Hn  ap  feu.  u 

d.  Tomas  ap  hoi  ap  tvdr  .  .  .  .  ap  farddvr.  v 

e.  Ed.  ap  dd.  llwyd  ap  bleddyn  .  .  .  .  ap  vchdrvdap  edwin.  to 

f.  MercLedf  eu.  ap  ftn  ap  kyn.  evell  oedd  Yrddylad,  Tangwystl  &c.  x 

102  Hvw  ap  Ric.  trefgarn  ap  kyn.  ap  bleddyn  y 

103  The  children  and  descendants  of  Hn  ap  hwlkyn.  z 

106  hod  ssilin — ssir  gaernarfon  :  Rob'  ap  ywain  &c.  a 
b.     tref  gayan :  fhflr  [?  farddur]  ap  John  ap  Rydd3  ap  Rys  &c.   b 

107  fdnerth  benvras  o  vaesbrwc.  Edw.  ap  Mathe  ap  dd.  &c.  c 
1Q8     Eliz.  V}  gwil.  ap  gr.  a  briodes  brawd  arg.  grae  Rvthvn  &c.        d 

Part  II. 

109  ILyma  henwav  pvtnp  brenhinllwyth  Itymrv :  e 

6.         Anna  wnaeth  i  nyni  //  gael  wyneb  y  golevni     ....  f 

Koi   nef  rrac  y  ddolef  ddic  /  in  eneidiav  n  enwedic  ssowrdwal 

111  A  synopsis  of  Biblical  history  .  Pryd  nad  oedd  dim  Eithr 
diiw  ar  ddechrevad  y  byd  hwn  yna  y  dechrevodd  adda  dyrnasv  oed 
adda  pan  aned  sseth  CC'xxx  Ag  o  hyny  C  mlynedd  y  bv  yn  kwyno 
Abel  f  fab  heb  geisio  plant  a  laddesid  yn  oed  dengmlynedd  a  Rvgain. 
A  sseth  i  fab  a  dyrnasodd  ar  ol  i  dad  ag  a  fv  fyw  910.  Enos  a 
wladychodd  ar  i  ol  yntav  ....  ends :  J  Nemroth  vab  Chus  ap 
Cairn  ap  Noe  y  bv  vab  a  elwid  Behis  Ac  a  vv  vrenin  kyntaf  yn  assiria 
....  Ac  yn  oes  [ffalec]  y  gwnaethbwyd  yr  ieithoedd  }n  adeilad 
Twr  babilon  y  maes  ssennaar  A  chan  i  ativedd  Ef  y  Trigodd  iaith 
Efrae  kans  hyna  vv  or  ieithoedd. 

119  0  Noe  hyd  abram  y  bv  dec  Gwyr :  Noe  :  ssem  &c. 

b.  ILyma  val  y  Rannwyd  plant  yr  yssrael :  xij  maib  iacob 
padriarch  iv  dwyrain  yr  aeth  :  tri — ysachar  ac  f  udas  &c. 

120  fosseph  ap  facob  ap  Eis?ac  ap  abram  &c. 

b.  Names  of  the  wives  of  *Noe,  Cain,  f  apheth  &c. 

c.  Sir  y  mwythic  :  mwrtyn  korbed  [  syre  ondro  ap  roetsier  ap  syrjg 
jlobet  ap  syr  Ritsiard  korbed  .«»  . 
•    121  Smyrna  Jache  jhon   ap  Elis  Evtvn   ap  fhon  ap  siamys  Ac,    h 
traced   back  to  Adam !      The   maternal  side  is   also  given  at   very 
great  length  ;  also  a  description  of  his  ar  ms  on  page  128. 


494  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   74. 

127     Gwyddelwern  :  Elisse  ap  gr.  ap  egn.  ap  gr.  ap  tin  ap  kyn  &c.  a 

129  Maelor  gymraeg  :  Morgan  ap  dd.  ap  Eys  ap  gr.  &c.  b 

b.  Robert  ap  Bdw:  ap  hoi  ap  fin  &c.  c 

c.  Plant  Sn  ap  edn.  ap  gr.  &c.  d 

130  y  traian  :  ]folin  ag  Edw.  meib  ho^  ap  egn.  goch  &c.  e 

b.  y  traian  a  swydd  y  drewen :  dd.  ap  egn.  ap  Mad.  koch  &c.       / 

c.  y  traian ;  dd.  ap  owain  ap  Jer:  ap  liwfa  Uwyd  &c.  g 

d.  „  II  dd.  ap  egn.  ap  edn.  ap  Mad.  h 

131  Maelor  gymraec :  Rob,  ap  gr.  ap  lio^  ap  gr  ap  Jer.  vychan  SiC.  i 

b.  kynllaith  a  mochnant :  Plant  madoc  ap  Jer.  goch  &c.  k 

c.  kynllaith  :  Howel  a  Rys  a  Mred.  meib  gr.  ap  Edn.  I 

132  Mochnant :  Gr.  ap  ifevl.  gethin  ap  Mad.  kyfiBn  &c.  m 

b.  Aher  tajiad :  Gr.  ap  feu.  vychan  ap  ^en.  gethin  &c.  n 

c.  edeirnion  a  din  mael :  Howel  a  gr.  meib  Rys  ap  dd.  &c.  o 

d.  din  mael :  dd.  ap  tudiir  ap  ow.  vychan  &c.  p 

e.  „  dd.  ap  itn  ap  ow.  hen  &c.  q 

133  Edeirnion  :  dd.  a  gr.  a  ^ohn  a  tho'  meib  Jeu.  ap  Egn.  &o.        )• 

b.  „  ho^  ap  gr.  ap  Rys  ap  ^eu.  ap  itn  ddii  &c.  s 

c.  „  Gr.  ap  dd.  ap  Rys  ap  ]feu.  ap  iin  ddv  &c.  t 

d.  dinmael  ac  edeirnyon  :  Ho^  a  gr.  meib  Rys  ap  dd.  &c.  u 

134  Edeyrnyon  :  Plant  dd.  ap  Jeu.  ap  Egn aposbern.&c.  v 

b.  „  :  ]feuan  ac  Edu.  meib  gr.  ap  Jen.  &c.  w 

c.  Meirionydd :  dd.  ap  Mevric  vychan  ap  ho'  selyf  &c.  x 

1 35  Jack  ddewi  ar  saint :  Dewi  ap  .aank  ap  karedic  ap  kvnedda  y 
■wlpdic  ap  Edyrn  ap  padarn  peisrvdd  ap  tegid  .  .  .  .  ap  addaup  diiw. 
Mam  ddewi  oedd  Nonn  &c.     Tiien  follow  Dogvael,  Tyrnoc,  Teilaw, 
Avan  bvellt,  Gwynlliw  &c ends :  Kyngar  a  Jestin  a  gadwr 

a  selyf  meibion  geraint  ap  erbin  ap  kustenin  gornev  ap  kynnar  ap 
tiidwal  ap  kurmwr  ap  gadiawn  ap  kynan  ap  evdaf  ap  kriadoc  ap  bran 
ap  llyr  Uediaith. 

140  ^ryc/jaw  brycheinioc  ap  korvmawc  vrenin  y  werddon  &c.  .  .  .  s 
Plant  Brychan,  kynasvc,  kledwyn,  &c. 

141  jfach  Mair  V3  ifoachym  ap  simap  sioswi  &c.  Mair  a  briodedyn 
oedran  xiiij  Ac  a  ddyc  y  Mab  yn  oedran  xv  Ac  a  gyd  oesodd  ar  Mab 
kyn  dioddef  a  bono  ef  xxxij  a  thri  mis  Ac  a  vv  yn  ol  y  dioddevaint 
xxii  Eithr  y  Mab  a  ddioddevodd  yn  vnion  xxxiij  o  vlynyddoedd  ir 
dydd  y  dyvod  yr  Angel  yr  avi  Maria 

b.  Henwav  y  pvm  BrenMnllioyth.  (See  ato've,  p.  109.)  a 

142  Henwav  pymthegllwyth  gwynedd  yw  Rain  :  Y  mon  hwva  ap  b 
kynddelw  A  gwerydd  ap  R.  go}.     Plant  hwva  ap  k.  nid  amgen  ]fer. 

blettriis  &c ends :  Ynn  Nyffryn  klwyd  Evnydd :  Rai  addo- 

wedant  mae  gwervgwy  ap  gwaeddvawr. 

b.     Pvmp  hostowghoyth  kymry :    Y  blaidd  Rudd  or   gest  yn  C 
eiddionydd  &c. 

143  Tair  beriach  gwyne  :  kanteli  wyddel,  Mabon  glochydd  &c.       d 

b.  itwyth  killin  meib.  vchelwyr  :  Hwva  ap  kynddelw  &c.  e 

c.  z5f.  killin  y  Mortvn  a  vaelor :  ssanddef  hardd  ap  kar.  &c.  f 

d.  if.  aylan  hellach  :  Egn.  ap  gwalchmai  ap  Meilir  &c.  g 

e.  U-  yr  henyw  gwyr  Pentraeth  o  hono :  Gereint  ap  tegwared  h 

144  U.  gollwyn  :  Merwyn  ac  eginir  ac  edn.  &c.  i 

b.  i?.  PereWyra  ;  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  &c.  k 

c.  it-   Trevor  :  ifeuaf  ap  Adda  ap  awr  &c.  1 

d.  it.  Nanhevdwy  :  Jer.  voel  ap  ]fer.  vychan  &c.  m 

e.  it.  Maelor  gymraec  :  Kyn.  ap  Rywallon  ap  dyngad  &c.  ,  n 
/.  it-  llannercfi  banna  :  -fonas  ap  gronwy  ap  tudr  &c.  ,0 


PEDIGEEES.  495 

145  U.  Bortvn  y  3Iaelor  :  ssanddef  hardd  ap  kariadawc  &c.  a 

b.  if.  trefalvn  :  Evnvdd  ap  gwennllian  V5  Rys  &c.  b 

c.  U.  Evton  a  sonlli  ac  erddylys  :  Elidir  ap  Rys  sais  &c.  c 

d.  it-  dvdlvstyn  yn  y  traian  :  ]fddon  ap  R.  sais  &c.  d 

e.  it.  swydd  y  drewen  :  syr  W™  Pefr  ap  gronwy  &c.  e 

f.  it.  deuddwr  a  Mechaiii :  ayr  Rog.  powys  ap  gronwy  &c.  / 

146  Brenhinllwyth  dehevharth :  Arg.  Rys  ap  gr.  ap  Rys  &c.  g 
b.          „      Powys  wenwynwyn :  Plant  gr.  ap  gwenwynwyn  &c.  h 

147  Gwehelyth  ar  y  llechwedd  vehaf :  ^arddvr  ap  tryhaiarn  &c.  i 

b.  G.  gioerthrynion  :  Kadwallon  ap  Mad.  ap  ^er:  &c.  k 

c.  G.  Powys  :  Gr.  Maelor,  Owain  ac  Elissav  meib  Mad.  &c.  I 

d.  G.  Arwystli:  Ho^  ap  ^eu.  ap  ow.  ap  trehaiarn  &c.  m 

e.  G.  Morgannwc  :  Morgan  ap  kriadoc  ap  ]festm  &c.  n 

148  G.  Gwent :  Morgan  ap  ho'  ap  f  er.  ap  ow.  &c.  o 

b.  G.  dyved :  Ywain  ap  elen  V3  lowarch  &c.  p 

c.  G.  kadelling  o  gegidva  ym  howys  :  Gwynn  ap  gr.  ap  beli  &c.  q 

149  G.  Penllyn  :  Meirion  ap  llenwev  ap  koed  &c.  r 

b.  G.  Meirionnydd :  Kynan  ap  brochwel  ap  edn.  &c.  s 

c.  G.  ardvdwy  :  Bleiddvd  ap  tarad.  ap  senanawl  &c.  t 

d.  G.  Bos:  Ho'  varf  vehinoc  ap  karad.  ap  Meirion  &c.  u 

150  G.  dogveilin.  Kowryd  ap  elayth  ap  elgvd  &c.  v 

b.  G.  gwyr  Bos  :  Edn.  vychan  ap  kyn.  ap  ^ur:  &c.  w 

c.  G.  arvon  :  kyfnerth  vychan  ap  kyfn.  ap  Morgenav  &c.  a; 

d.  G.  dyffryn  Mwyd :  Kowryd  ap  kadvan  ap  aylawc  &e.  y 

ILyma  gyif  talm  o  wehelyth  Jadhav  y  mars 

e.  Tiidr  trevor  ymyr  ap  kavroch  ap  gwernen  &c.  s 
/.     G.  Itay  ho^  a  chrevddyn  :  ]fer.  g03  ap  M'ed.  ap  bleddyn  &c.  a 

151  G.  y  deirnion  a  dinmael:  Plant  ow.  brogyntvn  ap  Mad.  &c.  b 

b.  G.  nannav :  Plant  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  kyn.  &c.  c 

c.  G.  Kynllaith  :  Egn.  evell  ap  Mad.  ap  M'ed.  &c.  d 

d.  G.  tegeingl :  Edwin  ap  gronwy  ap  ow.  ap  ho'  e 

Ac  velly  y  terfyna  hynny, 

f.  tegaingl :  Ednowain  benndew  ap  kynon  &c.  f 

g.  Js  dvlas  :  Rys  ap  edryd  ap  ^nethan  &c.  g 
h.     vwch   aled:    Tri   maib    hedd  ap   olvnawc    Henter   gwrgi  h 

gwillonon  &c. 

154     Penngwern  a  bostyn:  Rye.  ap  hot  ap  ^eu.  vychan  &c.  i 

Tegeingl :  Hoi  ap  day  ap  ifthel  ap  kyn.  ap  bleddyn  &c.  k 

b.  Tomas   3'r    arg:  abad  ai  vrodAr  meib  dd.  pennant  &c.  1 

c.  Hoi:  ap  tudyr  ap  |thel  vychan  &c.  m 

d.  Rys  ap  kyn.  ap  Robt.  ap  bleddyn  n 

156  Ystryd  Alvn  :  dd.  Uwyd  ap  bleddyn  ap  gr.  ap  heilyn  &c.  o 

b.  Nikolas  ap  deykws  ap  grono  ap  gr.  grach  &c.  p 

c.  Gr.  goch  ap  gr.  ap  kadwgon  &c.  q 

d.  Jthel  wynn  ap  Nikolas  ap  gwynn  .  .  .  ap  grono  sais  &c.  r 

157  Dyfiryn  Mwyd :  John  ap  M'ed.  ap  ^eu:  llwyd  ap  Hn  go3  &c.  s 

158  swydd  ddinbych:    Huw  K!onwy   a  John    a    Rys  meibion  t 

Robyn  ap  gr.  g03  &c. 

b.  M'ed.  ap  dd.  ap  egn.  vychan  &c.  u 

159  Man :  Mastr  Wilyam  ap  W™  vychan  &c.  v 

b.  Plant  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  ap  he'll  ap  Jer.  ddv  &c.  w 

160  Maelm-  gymraec:  Gr.  Evtvn  ap  dd.  ap  Hn  ap  edn.  &c.  x 

b:  "Wylliam  Evtvn  ap  John  ap  Jamys  y 

c.  W™  ap  dd.  ap  gr.  ai  vrodvr  &c.  z 

161  Niwl :  Doe  provais  overlais  vv.    ...  aa 

Nid  af  o  vwch  mynydd  dir  Anon. 


496  PESIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  74. 

164  D.klwyd — Z/.«;aiVy  ZZtoyrayraw.-Plaut  J.Wynnapdd.apgr.  &e,  a 

165  Maelw  gymraec  :  John  o  pylstou  ap  John  ap  Mad.  <&c.  b 

b.  Morgan  ap  dd.  ap  Mad.  ap  dd.  g05  &c.  c 

c.  dd.  ap  Jtn  ap  dd.  ap  fin  ap  Mad.  voel  &c.  d 

d.  dd.  ap  fin  ap  edn.  llwyd  ap  Jer.  &c.  e 

e.  John  ap  egn.  ap  ^olyu  ap  ^er:  &c.  f 

166  /.  dd.  g03  ap  hoi  ap  -feu.  ap  fin  ap  gr.  ap  ^er.  &c.  g 
Jal :  dd.  llwyd  ap  tudvr  ap  ^eu.  ap  fin  ap  gr.  llwyd  &c.  h 

b.  Margred  v}  ^ankyn  ap  ^euan  &c.  * 
Maelor  saesnec :  thomas  hanmer  ap  Rye.  ap  gr.  ap  ^ankyn  &c.  h 

167  Powys  :  John  arg.  Powys  ap  Eic.  ap  harri  &c.  I 
Maelor  saesnec  :  Koger  ap  John  ap  Kobart  .  .  o  pulston  &c.  m 

6.  Gr.  ap  Morgan  goch  ap  gr.  ap  Jer.  voel  &c.  n- 

c.  Tomas  domoke  ap  Jen.  ap  dd.  domoke  &c.  o 

d.  Phylip  ap  Mad.  ap  Jea.  ap  Jer.  &c.  p 

168  e.  Plant  Morgan  ap  Jer:  ap  gr.  ddv — Edwart  &c.  q 
Nanhevdwy :  John   trevor   a  Rye.   a  gwenhwy  vav   gwraic  r 

otwel  wrsle  /  plant  Edwart  ap  dd.  ap  edn.  gam  &c. 

b.  John  Edwart  ap  Jeuan  ap  adda  ap  Jer.  &c.  s 

Maelor  gymraec  :  Jach  Eobart  wynn  ap  Morgan  ap  Hn  t 

1G9     Aber   tanad :  5feu.  ap  d.illwyd  ai  vrodvr  ap  gr.  ap  J.  v'n  &c.  u 

b.  Kynllaith  .  Hoi'  a  Rys  meib  Morys  ap  Jeu.  gethin  &c.  v 

c.  Mochiant :  Hoi  a  gr.  meib  Madog  ap  Jer.  g03  &c.  w 

d.  Brycheinioc  :  Hn  ap  hoi  vn  a  briodes  Mawd  T3  J.  ap  Eys  <fec.  x 
€.     Man  :  Merd  ap  tomas  ap  Merd  ap  Kyn.  &c.  y 

170  b.  Hot  ap  Hn  ap  hoi  ap  Jer.  ddv  &e.  z 

c.  Owain  ap  ludr  vychan  ap  gwilym  &c.  a 

d.  Tudr  ap  dd.  ap  Eob'  ap  dd  ap  Rys  &c.  b 

e.  Meirionydd :  Map  Mevric  vychan  ap  hoi  ap  Selyf  &c.  c 
/.  Yr  hob:  Plant  Mad.  ap  Jen.  ap  Mad.  ddv  &c.  d 
g.     swydd  ddinbych  :  Mgrd  ap  dd.  ap  egn.  e 

171  Man :  Rob'  ap  Mred.  ap  hwlkyn  llwyd  &c.  f 

b.  devddwr :  dd.  llwyd  ap  Merd.  ap  Hn  ap  dd.  llwch  &e.  g 

c.  Powys  :  syr  gr.  vychan  ap  gr.  ap  Jeuan  &c.  h 

172  &  175     ach  y  brenin  :  Harri  vin  ap  harri  ap  Jemwnt  &c.  i 
b.     dehevbarth  :  syr  Rys  ap  tomas  ap  gr.  ap  Nikolas  ap  Phylip  k 

ap  elidir  ddv  ap  elidir  ap  Eys  ap  grono  &c. 

173  Y  beryw  :  Edw.  ap  hoi  ap  feu.  llwyd  I 

174  Mon  :  Plant  hoi  ap  fin  ap  hoi  —  Rys,  gr.,  Jer.,  &c.  m 

b.  tegeingl :  Niklas  ap  Jthael  ap  dd.  ap  Jer.  vychan  &c.  n 

c.  i?^/ic^*ec.- Plant  Jeuafap  fin  ap  kyn.  evell  &c.  o 

d.  Edeirnion :  Mad.  or  hendwr  ap  Jer  ap  Mad.  &c.  p 

175  swydd  ddinbych  :  Jolo  goj  ap  Jthel  g05  ap  kyn.  ap  Jer.  &c.  q 

b.  Powys :  doctor  owain  pwl  ap  dd.  vychan  &c,  r 

c.  tegaingl :  Tomas  ap  Edw.  ap  Jtliel  ap  Jer.  &c.  s 

d.  Yslryd  alvn :  Jthel  ap  gr.  ap  belyn  ap  kadwgon  &c.  t 

e.  Aber  gele  :  gr.  ap  Mad.  vychan  ap  hoi  ap  mad.  &c.  u 

176  Ystryd  Alvn  :  John  wynn  ap  gr.  ap  dd.  llwyd  &c.  v 

b.  Trevor  : ap  Edwart  ap  hot  ap  Hn  ap  Addaf  &c.  w 

c.  Y  traian :  dd.(?)  o  holbais  ap  J eu.  goj  ap  dd.  &c.  x 

d.  Powys  wenwynwyn  :  Hot  ap  egn.  ap  Ky  vnerth  ap  Jddon  &c.  y 

e.  Yvionydd :  Tomas  ap  Rys  ap  hot  ap  Rys  ap  hot  vychan  &c.  z 
/.     Ystryd  alvn  :  Robert  ap  John  ap  gr.  ap  Hn  ap  dd.  &c.  aa 

177  Dehevbarth:  Rys  (ai?)  vrodvr  plant  dd.  ap  tomas, Ac.  bb 
Maelor  sasnec :  John  ap  edn.  ap  hoi  ap  edn.  Ac.  cc 
Yr  hob :  Johon'a  Eic.  plant  Morgan  Ywng  ap  Jankyn  &c.  ~  dd 


VARIOUS  MEMORANDA,  497 

178  Maelor  G. :  Rob'  and  the"  ap  dclap  gr.  ap  dd.  Sutton  &c. 

b.     (Gwladaidd  oedd  ir  lleidr  flaidd  Ihvyd     ....  a 

ni  vawdd  ni  lesgawdd  ni  lysc  hvw  ap  Ric  o  hvdlo.) 

179  Pann  oedd  saint  senedd  vrevi     ....  b 
No  chan  ddyn  diddim  erchi                                           Anon. 

180  (Kynyr.    meilir   a   neigr   meibion    *   gwro[n]    np  kvnedda 

wledic  &c.) 

b.      ssiefrai  ap  ^eu.  o  dref  nefyn  a  ddoeth  o  ddvno   i  lann  elwy 
achos  lladdiad  gwr. 


MS.  75  =  Hen.  295.  Pedigrees,  Gwehelyth,  Poetky, 
CoMPOWND  Manuwel,  Bistedvod  Caekwys  &c.  Paper;  8|  X  6f 
inches  ;  254  pages ;  second  half  of  the  sixteenth  century ;  in  different 
hands— A  =  pp.  1-100,  229-251 ;  B  —  pp.  101-169  ;  C  =  pp.  170-220 
(after  1589) ;  sewn  in  limp  sheep-skin,  in  a  case. 

Pages  22,  58,  60,  80,  83,  214,  221-228,  252-254  as  well  as  a  large  number  of 
half  pages  are  blank. 

1  gwiliwchi  ar  ol  rhyw  goelion  /  ar  niwl  mawr  gornelav  mon  c 
krickierth  vwch  lain  kareg  y  llyn  &c. 

6.       Pennill  ir  brithill  /  gan  gipill  pan  gipier  /  yn  frith  i  gwelwch  &c.  d 

2  Mem*  that  John  Wyn  of  the  towr  &  elizabeth  weere  marride 
Nov.  13  .  1548  .  Then  on  p.  3  follows  a  list  of  their  children  with  the 
dates  of  their  birth. 

4  Tn  y  vylwyddyn  y  mae  iiij  chwarter  ....  ends  :  tri  mis  gaiaf 
sydd  0  fiflewmatikws  anian. 

'  5  duw  pie  dechre.  Eeinallt  ap  gr.  ap  blethyn  died  Nov  4.  1465  ; 

dd.  ap  gr.  ap  dd.  ap  ll'n  was  buried  at  gresflfordd  the  last  Friday  of  Dec.  1476. 

Gr.  ap  ho'  ap  dd.  gethin  was  slain  Tuesday  Nov.  8.  1465. 

Kyc[hard]  grae,  lord  of  Powys,  died  Dec.  18.  1465 

Wiliam,  son  of  John,  of  Hangmer,  died  Jany.  31.  1490  &  was  buried  at 

Gresfford. 
Robert  ap  John   trevor,  died  Sep.  26  =  gwyl  velangell  1487,  &  was  buried 

at  Llanegwestl. 
John  trevor  died  Dec.  6th,  1493 

6  Syr  "Wiliam  ystanle,  beheaded  1495 

Ho'  ap  Moms  ap  ifeu.  gethin,  died  Thursday  &  was  buried  Sunday  (sul  y 

gwreiehion)  8th  April  1481. 
ddj.  ap  ho'  ap  gr.  ap  edn.,  died  Jany  19th  1479. 
Tomas  ap  gwiliam  ap  morus,  died  Pebruary  4th,  1479 
Ll'n  ap  gr.  ap  Kys,  died  Nov  10th  1478 
Eynallt  ap  gr.  ap  bleddyn,  died  Nov.  4th  1465 
f  thel  Wyn  ap  nicolas,  died  Nov.  4th  1494 

7  John  ap  ^thel  wyn,  died  Nov.  30th  1547 
Davyth  llwyd  ap  bleddyn,  died  February  1472 

.     John  ap  gr.  ap  U'n  &  Robert  his  brother,  died  Feb.  25th  1511 

John  ap  nioholas  ap  dyk.,  died  March  17th  1492 

ifankyn  ap  gronw  died  June  9th  1480 

Edward  Uwyd  ap  dd]  Uwyd  ap  blethyn,  died  July  1st  1418 

ddavydd  ap  gr.  ap  pelyn,  died  Aug  13th  1492 
•  8  Syr  nicholas  ap  gr.,  died  Sept.  25th  14 — 

John  ap  Jankin  vicar  of  Wyddgric,  died  Oct.  26th,  1505. 
^       ^ohn  ap  ^eu.  ap  Rys,  died  Oct  .29th  1520 

^euan  ap  John  ap  gr.  ap  U'n,  died  Nov.  8th  1534 

Eobart  ap  John  ap  gr.  ap  U'n,  died  June  6th,  1537 

Henwyn  ap  kyngen  ap  aser  ap  bleiddud  ap  dyfynwal  &c. 


498  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT  75. 

TLyma  hellach  i  ysbyssii  o  iachoedd  saint  a  goruchel 
vrenhinedd  tywysogion  a  honeddigion 

9  Pedigrees  of  the  Saints  :  Dewi  ap  sant  ap  karedic  ap  kvnedda 
wledic  ap  edyrn  ap  padarn  peisriidd  ap  tegid  ap  ^ago  ap  genedawc 

ap  kain  ap  gwigau  ap  dolei  ap  gwrdoli  &c.  &c ends :  Berwyn 

ap  brychan  yBgherm-w  /  Bydderch  ap  brychan  y  ffraingk  /  Hychen 
ap  brychan  ynnyffryn  klwyd  y  mae. 

21  ILyma  henwav  y  rrai  a  gyvodes  bevno  o  veirw  i  vyw  /  llorkan 
wyddel  /  Ael  haiarn  /  deinioel  vab  /  deiniel  varch  dv  o  bywys  / 
gwenvrewy  /  Tygiwc  v'ch  ynyr  gwent. 

b.  Bevno  ap  bengi  ap  gwynlliw  ap  tegid  ap  kadell  &c. 

c.  Dewi  ap  sant  ap  kyredic  ap  kvnedda  wledic  &c. 

23  Gwr  priod  Mair  mam  ^esv  G.  oedd  ifosseff  vap  ^akop  &c. 

b.  Another  pedigree,  partly  blotted  out,  '  a  gad  gan  brior  bedd 
kelert.' 

24  Mair  v'j  f  ohachyn  ap  f  arpansira  ap  pansira  &c. 

25  Moeses  /  ac  Aron  /  Meibion  kaath  ap  leini  ap  ^akop  &c. 

b.  laban  ap  batiiel  ap  nachor  ap  thare  /  Rebecca  v'3  batnel  &c. 

27  Ditw  pie  dechre  j  ac  yn  esa  my  vi  a  ddechreva  ar  fonedd 
rrai  j  o  vrenhinnedd  j  a  thwysogion  /  or  brytaniaid  j  a  bonyddig  am 

ben  hyn  y.     Arthur  ap  vthiir  bendragon  ap  kustenin ap 

Uyr  Uediaith  Then  follow  the  pedigrees  of  Eigr,  Koel  godeboc, 
Kustenin  ap  Konystans,  Maxen  wledic,  Gortheyrn  gwrthenav, 
Kustenin  ap  kadwr,  Maelgwn  gwynedd,  Kadwaladr  vendigaid. 

31  i?o<?ri  MattT  ap  essyllt  v'ch  gynan  tindaethwy  &c.       .- •  ^ 

b.  Rodri  mawr  ap  mervyn  vrych  ap  gwria,d  ap  Elidir  &c.     ■  •■   <• 

c.  *Plant  Eodri  mawr /anarawd/ kadell /Mervryn  &c.  .     -..  • 
33  *Plant  Tewdwr  mawr  ap  einion  ap  howel  &c. 

35  *Plant  jfago  ap  ]fdwal  ap  mevric  ap  Jdwal  &c. 
b.  *Plant  Gruffud  ap  kynan  ap  Jago  &c.  .  .    merch  lychwy  o  Ian 
bevlan  yw  mam  Hewal  ap  gr.  ap  kynan/  a  vv  abad  ymhen  mon  /  ac 
ymae  i  vedd  yno  etto  /  diding  ap  gr.  ap  k.  effeiriad  vv  ac  athroda&c. 

37  *P]ant  ywain  gwynedd  ap  gr.  ap  k.  <fec. 

41   *Plant  kynvyn  ap  gwerystan  ap  gwaith  voed  ap  gwrydr  &c. 

45  *Plant  Kenav  ap  Koel  godeboc :  Padarn  /  grwst  /  Grarmoniawn  / 
maesgwic  klof  /  mar.  &c. 

48  Trimaib  hedd  ap  olunawo:  mendyr  Gwrgi  a  gwillonon  &c. 

b.  Eissiart  ap  llowarch  ap  kynddilic  .  .  .  ap  Eychwyn  varvoc  0  vod 
olwyn  yn  Eos. 

49  Plant  llowarch  hen  /  Gwen  /  morudd  /  Pill  &c.  kb. 

b.  Plant  /  egri  o  dal  ebclion  /  ymon  a  viiant  yn  oes  vaelgwn 
g^vynedd  :  Nudd  /  Eonyn  /  Jarddur  /  geiriad  /  Trystan  &c. 

50  Plant  kyndrwyn  :  Elvan  pywys/  gwion  /  kynon  /  Eiadaf  &c. 

b.  Plant  ywain  dirmic  :  kornen  /  gwion  /  Sidin  &c. 

c.  Plant  don  o  arvon  :  Gwdion  /  Samson  /  ^fdwal  /  hvnawc  / 
Gelvaethwy  /  Evnydd  /  Elystan  /  kynan  /  hedd  /  adien  /  Elawc  / 
Arianrrod. 

d.  Plant  maeth  ap  mathonwy :  lieu  Haw  gyffes  /  dylan  ail  ton  /  a 
blodevwedd  /  ev  chwaer  /  a  arianrrod  .  .  .  ev  mam 

51  Plant  Kvnedda  wledic :  Peibion  hyna  mab  oedd  a  marw  vii 
kynn  dy vod  ai  vrodyr  or  gocledd  i  wynedd  y  mynnev  gododvn  y  bv 
varw  /  Mekion  ab  Tybiav  ap  K.  /  Arwystl  /  karedic  /  dvnod  .... 
bioedd  cantref  dvnodic  nid  amgen  kymwd  ardudwy  ac  evionydd  / 
Edyrn  bioedd  Edeirnion  /  Mael  .  .  .  bioedd  dinmael  /  koel  .  .  . 
bioedd   kym.  koleiawn  /  dogvael  .  .  .  .  b.  kym.  dogveiling  yn  yfEryn 

*  Plant  covers  here  not  only  children  but  descendants  to  any  degree. 


PLANT  BRTCHAN  BRYCHEINOG,  ETC.         499 

klwyd  /  Eyuon  .  .  b.  dyno  rryvonioc  /  Oswael  b.  osweilion  /  Einion 
yrth  b.  kaer  einion  /  Gwron  a  bloid  brodyr  oeddynt,  a  dwywei  v'ch 
degid  voel  J  mam  /  Gwen  gwraic  amlawd  wledic  /yneigr  mam  gynwal 
karnhwch,  kynyr,  a  meilir  ...  a  vuant  yll  tri  gyd  a  chaswallon 
llawir  i  kefnderw  yn  gyi'v  y  gwyddyl  ffichdiaid  o  von  ac  y  divauasant 
yn  llwyr  pan  laddodd  kaswallon  llawir  Serigi  wyddel  yn  llan  y 
gwyddyl  y  mon. 

52     Plant  kam  o  dwrkelyn  :  dirmic  /  kilid  /  bangaw  .  .  Gildas  &c. 
b.     Plant  hrychan  brycheiniawc  ap  korvniawc  vrenin  ewerddon 
/  a  marchell  v'ch  deudric  ap  Teithffalt  ap  teithrin  &c. 

54  Tair  gwragedd  a  vu  i  vrychan  /  Eurbrawst  /  Kybrawst  /  a 

pberesgi. 
b.     Tair  gwelygordd  saint  /  plant  brychan  /  a  phylant  kvnedda 
wledic  /  a  phylant  kaw  o  brydain. 

55  Mewn  Trille  y  delid  arglwyddiaith  wynedd  o  gogel  /  vn  o 

naddvnt  vu  /  ystradwel  v'ch  gavan  ap  kynan  &c. 

b.  Tryffin  ap  Mervyn  or  hwn  yr  heniw  gwyr  y  rriw  o  leyn 

c.  Gwgon  ap  gwriad  or  hwn  yr  heniw  gwyr  y  nant  mawr  o 

dwrkelyn  y  mon. 

d.  Gwydlid  ap  Rodri  or  hwn  yr  heniw  gwyr  penmon  lys. 

e.  Mevric  ap  Rodri  a  ddigwyddodd  o  ddiar  i  varoh  yn  ystrad 

mevric. 
/.     Tiidwal  ap  Rodri  a  vrathwyd  ym  hen  i  lin  yngwaith  kamryd 
konwy. 

56  Helygi  a  Elvedan  meibion  ^lon  hwylvawr  or  gogledd. 

b.  Elidir  mwynvawr  ap  grwst  priodawr  &c. 

c.  Rydderch  hael  glaer  ac  /  ardderchdrud  /  a  morgan  mwyn- 

vawr &c. 

d.  Tudwal  tutklud  ap  keidio  ap  dyfnwal  hen. 

e.  Gwydion  astrus  /  ac  ennael  /  a  dos  /  brodorion  oeddynt  &c. 
/.     -fevaf  a  chenav  meibion  brwydr  ddiriaid  ap  gwydien  astrus  &c. 
g.     Gwythyr  ap  greidiol  galouhydd  ap  kadvael  &c. 

57  Mordaf  hael  ap  seruan  ap  keidio 

b.  Elfiin  ap  gwyddno  ap  kaordaf  &c. 

c.  Plant  Edwin  ap  gronwy  ap  owain  ap  Rodri  op  ho'  dda  &c.  &c. 
59     Pymthegllwyth  gwynedd yw  i  Rain:  y  mon  Gweyrydd  ap 

Rys  goch  &c. 

61  GWEHBLYTU  deheubarth  :  Rys  ap  gr.  a])  R.  ap  tewdwr  &c.  a 
G.  gwerthrynnion :  Kadwallon  ap  mad.  ap  Jer:  &c.  b 
G.  morgaawc  :  Morgant  ap  karadawc  ap  ^estin  &c.  c 
G.  gwent :  Morgant  ap  howel  up  ^erwerth  &c.  d 

62  G.  dyved :  Twain  ap  Elen  v'chlowarch  ap  hyveidd  &c.  e 
G.  Powys  :    Gr:  maelor  ac  ywain  vychan  ac  elissev  meibion  f 

Mad.  ap  M'ed.  Ac. 

63  G.  Arwystli  :  Howel  ap  ]fevaf  ap  ywain  &c.  g 
G.  powys :  ^erwerth  goch  ap  m'edj  ap  bleddyn  &c.  h 
G.  kadelling  o  gegidva  ym  hywys :  Gwyn  ap  gr.  ap  beli  &c.    * 

64  G.  Penllyn  :  Meirion  ap  Uenwev  ap  koed  ap  doned  &c.  k 
G.  Meirionnydd :  Kynan  ap  brochwel  ap  ednyved  &c.  I 
G.  ardudwy  :  Bleiddiid  ap  karadawc  ap  ^eanawl  &c.  m 
G.  nannav  :  Plant  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  kyn.  /  Madog  &c.  n 

65  G.kynllaith:  Einiawn  evell  ap  mad  ap  m'ed^  ab  bleddyn  &c.  o 
G,  edeirnion  a  dinmael:  plant  Ywain  brogvntvn  ap  mad.  &c.  p 
G.arllechwedd  vchaf:  Jarddiir  ap  trehaiarn  &c.  q 
G.  Mas  :  Howel  varf  vehinonoc  ap  karadoc  &c.  r 
G.  dogveiling  ;  kowryd  ap  elaeth  ap  elgiid  glas  &c.  s 


600  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   75. 

66  (?.  c?y_^»-y«  AZoye?.-  Kowrydap  kadvan  ap  alaoc  &c.  a 
G.  givyr  Bos  pedwar  llwyth  edryd :  Edny veJ  vychan  &c.     b 

(b)    Gr.   ap  Riwallon  &c.    (c)  Jerwerth  ap    Jddon   &c.  c 

{d)  Bleddyn  ap  mevric  &c.  d 

G.  arvon  :  Kyfnerth  vychan  ap  kyfnerth  ap  morgenav  &c.  e 

67  G.  Kae  hmeel  a  chreuddvn  :  iferwerth  goch  ap  m'ed.  &c.  / 
G.  tegeingyl :  Edwin  ap  gronwy  ap  y  wain  ap  Eodri  &c.  g 
G.  ystradalvn  :  ILwelyn  ap  kynwric  evell  ap  mad.  &c.  h 

68  Brenhinllwyth  Poicys  wenwynwyn :  Plant  gr.  ap  G.  &c.  i 
ILWYTH  tegcingl :  Eduywain  bendew  ap  kynon  veiniad  &c.  k 
IL.  killin  meib  vchelwyr  :  Hwva  ap  kynddelw  ap  kwnws  &c.     I 

69  ]L.  killin  y  mortyn  o  vaelawr :  Sanddef  hardd  ap  kar.  &<",.  m 

70  IL.  aelan  :  Eiuiawn  ap  gwalchmai  ap  meilir  &c.  n 
74     IL.  yr  henywgwyr  Fentraethohonno  :  Geraintaptegwared  &c.  o 

IL.  gollwyn  :  Merwydd  /Eginir  /ac  ednyved  meib  gollwyn  &c.  p 
IL.  penllyn :  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  ap  gollwyn  &c.  q 

JLyma  gyff  a  gwraidd  tcdym  o  wehelaelhav  y  mars, 

maelawr,  a  swydd  y  wavn 
Tiidur  Trevor  ap  ymyr  ap  kadvarch  ap  gwernen  &c.  r 

76  JL.  Trevawr  :  jfcvaf  ap  addaf  ap  awr  ap  ^eu.  &c.  s 
IL.  nant  hevdwy  :  ]forwerth  voel  ap  ^er:  vychan  &c.  t 
JL.  maelawr  gymraec  :  Kynwric  ap  Riwallon  ap  dyngad  &c.  u 
JL.  llannerch  banna  :  ^onas  ap  gronwy  ap  tudiir  &c.                 v 

77  JL.  tref  alvn :  Evnydd  ap  gwenllian  v'chRysap  marchan&c.  w 
IL.  evtvn  a  sonlli  ac  erddlys  :  Elidir  ap  Rys  sais  &c.  x 
JL.  dudlust  yny  traian  :  jfdon  ap  Rys  sais  ap  ednyved  &c.  y 
JL.  swydd  y  drefwen:  Syr  W™  pofr  ap  gronwy  ap  tudiir  &c.  z 
JL.  devddwr  a  mechain  :  Syr  Roichir  powys  ap  gron.  &c.  a 
Gwehelyth  klothaith   ar   hiid    yn   hegingl :    ^er.   goch  or  b 

krevddyn  &c. 

79     Pump  kostowglwyth  kymry  :  (1)  y  blaidd   rriidd  or  gest  yn  c 
eddionydd ;    (2)    adda    vawr    yn  nehevbarth ;    (3)    alon 
ymhowys;    (4)   y   gwenwys   jmhowys;    (5)   heilin    seil 
fforch. 
Tair  beriach  gwynedd  :  Kantelli  wyddel,  a  mabon  glochydd  d 
ac  osbern  wyddel. 

81     Swydd  ddinbech :  Rys  ap  mred]  ap  tudvr  ap  ho'  e 

84  dyffryn  klwyd :  Syr  ^ohn  ap  gr.  goch  &c.  f 

85  Val  dyma  bedwar  devnydd  dyn  :  dayar  /  dwr  /  awyr  a  than 
/  y  ddayar  y  sydd  oer  a  sych  /  ac  a  elwir  melankolikws  .  .  .  .  yr  havl 
y  sydd  olevni  ir  boll  vyd  yssawd  wrth  hynny  yn  y  perfedd  Rwng 
y  ddaiar  ar  fEvrfawen  y  mae  .  .  .  vegis  i  gallo  hi  olehav  vry  ac  yma 
kanys  y  tv  vry  iddi  ....  ends :  gwr  fflewmatictw  bychan  i  chwant 
a  mawr  i  aliv  kanys  oer  a  gwlyb  vydd. 

Moliant  Rinalld  ap  gruffydd  ap  bleddyn 
101       Mae  yngwynedd  fab  bonheddig     ...  g 

Saith  oed  y  ddar  ar  i  wallt  L.  Glyn  kothi 

104      Nos  da  Hew  oes  llowen      ....  h 

fo  a  fyth  fwyfwy  weithian  howel  kilan 

108  Mar.  am  dd.  laid  o  abertanad  a  Rinallt  ap  Gr.  ap  B. 

Devwr  hwnt  Tal  blodav  Bos     ....  i 

Ni  adodd  Sais  nid  oedd  swydd 
yw  dir  Er  daed  i  orwydd 
Ni  natti  yc  vn  etto 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  501 

yn  fyw  lie  i  bai  ped  fai  fo 

J  gwewyr  .  .  .  .  hv  j  r  /  dydd  gynt 

yn  yr  adwy  na'  ry'dynt     .... 

yn  i  faddef  nef  vddyn  Jeuan  ap  Tudiir  penlli/n 

Moliant  i  Rinallt  ap-  Gruff  ap  blethyn 
112       Y  milwr  pier  twr  teg     ....  a 

A  deled  ystred  alvu  . 
yn  Eiddo  honno  i  hvn     .... 
y  vo  ai  kynhalio  yn  hir  .  howel  kilan  - 

]  1 5       Tair  annerch  i  ti  Beinallt     ....  b 

twr  Eilon  ar  tair  aelwyd 
ar  gaer  galch  or  wyddgrig  wyd     .... 
Eryr  y  twr  yr  y  tarw  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

.118  Bmiiad  Sion  Wyn  ap  fefan  ap  Rys  o  ystradalvn 

tarin  och  oedd  ackw  yn  vchel     ....  c 

ar  ddwy  law  fair  ar  ddelw  fyw  Tvdur  Aled 

122  Owdwl  i  ddychanv  tref  gaerlleon  &e. 

Reinallt  mae  ,kledd  ar  groenyn/yu  grafF    ....  d 

kan  hwythav  glapiav  genn  gledd  L.  Glyn  kothi 

127   Owdwl  i  Rys  ap  Uen  ap  hydwgan  o  is  derwen 

Rys  or  fel  ynys  flaenawr  /  ir  wern     ....  e 

o  bv  fab  i  wraig  na  bwyf  heb  Rys  Dd.  Nanmor 

130  Mancnad  i  ddajydd  ap  Jthel  vychan 

Y  mae  kof  a  mi  ai  kwyn     ....  f 
chwech  y  sydd  chwech  oes  vddvn              Dd.  ap  Ednuvnt 

134  I  S' Rys  ap  Thomas  Jtyn  I  fynd  jnj  farchog 

E  wnaeth  y  fran  i  nytli  fry     ....  g 

heb  y  dalaith  be  delech  Jeuan  Devhcyn 

136  Itowydd  Mar.  i  Wilhn  ap  Gruffudd 

Rho  dvw  galon  ddiglon  fwyll     ....  A 

wrth  fyngwawr  dvw  mawr  amen  gwilim  ap  sefnyn 

141  K.  i  Syr  Wiliam  gruffvdd  hynaf  pan  i  vrddwyd  jnj  farchog 

Y  mae  /  r  /  aur  /  yma  /  r/  awron     ....  i 
nes  i  eni  na  sonient                                               Tiidyr  Aled 

144  K.  ir  hen  IS'  Wiliam  Grvffyth 

Kamrwysc  Arglwidd  kymrv     ....  Ji 

kymro  yn  vrddo  /n/  iaith  Dd.  llwyd  ap  Un  ap  gr. 

147  K.  i  S'  Wiliam  gruffudd  hen  pann  oedd  yngharchar 

y  Brad  hen  ir  brvtaniaid     ....  / 

del  ich  kof  dial  ych  kam  lewys  mvn 

151  K.  dros  Syr  W"  ap  it  en  i  ofyn  klog  gan  margered 
gr.  merch  S"  Wgr. 
Pwy  sy  hael  passio  helynt     ....  to 

i  ddiawl  ir  mars  addel  mwy  Robert  ap  dd.  l.'oid 

159  K.  i  Jeu.  fychan  o  foelyrch  ag  i  howel  ifab . 

Dafvdd  o  braffwydd  broffwyd     ....  « 

jv!  rhoi  yn  He  yr  hen  llys  Gvto  jrj  glyn 

168  K.  i  howel  ap  Jen.  vychan  o  foelyrch  pan  oedd  glaf. 

Howel  ni  chysga  haiach     ....  o 

ni  chwarddaf  oni  chwerddy  Gvtto  or  glyn 


602 


PENIARTH  MANTOCRIPT  75. 


Marwnadeu  Mr.  Sion  wyn  or  Twr  ,  15Sg  . 
168       Dvw  dros  y  wlad  a  droes  lif     .     .     .     . 
")  Sion  wyn  fo  drwa  y  nef  . 

172       Mae  kvr  trwm  krio  tramawr     .... 
ystor  yn  nef  sy  draw  /n/  ol 

175       Trveni  aeth  trwy  wynedd     .... 
y  boir  enaid  bvr  enioes 

180       Tros  daear  bell  trist  yw  r  byd     .     , 
a  nef  iw  hoU  benaiiaid 


Simwnt  Vachan 

John  Tudr 

Robert  Evans 

Edward  ap  Raff 


183  {Eight  Englyns  in  English  referring  to  the  troubles  of 
Charles  I.  with  Fym,  Hamden,  Pophame,  Strowd, 
Holland,  Bedford,  Warwicke  ^■c. 

King,  alone  ^  moane  thy  many  Shedd  teares     .     .    . 

What  sex  is  Essex,  that  eiesore  of  thine 
&  what  heathen  traytore? 
is  that  stonelesse  profEessore 
a  woman,  or  man,  or  more  ?     .     .    .     , 

display  againe  thine  ensigne 

Wee'ld  assure  thee  Welsh  are  thine 

Act  thy  parte  Robert  hunt  the  Rebell  Essex     .     .     , 
&  pull  'em  all  even  pell  mell  /  ) 


Anon. 


185       A  fyno  nef  yw  enaid 

oi  feie  byth  ef  a  baid     . 
ary  Haw  yuo  ir  Uywenydd 


/ 


Syr  dafudd  trefor 


186  Marwnad  Sion  Chuffudd  Sersiant 

T  byd  hyll  ar  bowyd  hwn     .... 

kyrched  ef  ir  nef  ari  naid  Sion  Tvdvr 

191   Otvdivl  i  Tomas  Prys  o  lanelwy 

Tomas  Hew  diilas  dialwr  kryflon     .... 

tomas  Hew  dvlas  yn  He  i  deloch  lewys  powel 

195  Four  Englyns :  Dico  quod  nemo  quid  nimis  &c. 

196  Ghveddi  jrj  arglwydd  mewn  haniad 

Ytx  tad  tirion  gwrando  klyw     .... 

ar  ffyniant  yn  oes  oessoedd  Anon. 


k 


198  Kredo :  Kredii  /r/  ydwyf  ynvw  dad     ....  I 

yn  i  nefol  dyrnas  „ 

201       Y  dyn  a  ddringo  frig  dar  /  dra  vchel  /  Ac.     S,  Vachan  m 

b.  A  gasgler  gwilier  drwy/r/  gelyn  /  koiliwch  &c.  „  n 

c.  Y  deg  gorchymyn  mewn  haniad 

Vynghredigion  dowch  yn  es     .     .     . 
dy  ddeddfav  ysgrifena  . 

206  Karol  pedair  merched  y  drindod 

Mi  a  ddangossaf  i  chwi  /r/  llvn     . 
]f  dyrnas  nef  i  drigo 

215       Mae  vn  sawdiwr  mewn  sidan     .... 
moes  yuill  y  raaes  vnwaith 

217   Yr  vsvriwr :  Mae  vn  a  barch  mewn  y  byd     .... 

son  am  anvdon  ydoedd       left  (?)  unfinished.     [Sion  Tudur) 


Anon 


Mastr  Rys  tomas 


CAERWYS  EISTEDDVOD,  1524.  503 

229  Compownd  maniiwel    (See  MS.  52  supra.) 

ILyma  val  i  gossodir  llythyrennau  yr  wythnos  ar  y 

managvys  a 

Yr  wythnos  a  ddangosswn 
a :  b  :  c  :  kefn  bys  kyvan 
ar :  d :  e :  f :  ar  i  dyn 
ar :  g :  ir  bys  ar  i  ben     .... 
dec  tri  dec  grymadegydd 
pvmp  tri  maith  saith  dec  y  sydd  . 

239  Caerwys  Eistedvod ,  1321^:  Bid  ysbys  i  bawb  o  voneddigion 
a  chyfEredin  vod  eisteddva  ar  wyr  wrth  gerdd  tavod  a  thant  o  vewn 
tref  gayrwys  yn  sir  yfflynt  yr  xx  dydd  o  vis  gorfEena  y  xv  vlwyddyn 
o  Kaynedigaeth  harri  wythved  o  Rym  comyssiwn  ar  oedd  i  syr 
Wyllyam  gr  siambyrlen  gwynedd  a  syr  Eoger  salusburi  ystiwart 
dynbych  ac  eraill/drwy  bersenol  gyngor  gruff  ap  ^eu.  gwr  bon- 
heddic  /  a  thvdvr  aled  bardd  kadeirioc  /  a  llawer  o  voneddigion  a 
doethion  erill  /  er  gwnevthvr  ordyr  a  Uywodraeth  ar  gerddwyr  ac  ar 
gylvyddyd  nid  amgen  i  gadarnhav  a  clionfiEyrmio  y  pen  kerddiaid  y 
sawl  a  gavas  gradd  yn  y  blaen  ac  i  Raddio  y  sawl  ai  haeddo  /  ac  i 
roddi  ys  bas  i  eraill  i  ddyscu  ac  i  vyvyrio  yn  nesaf  i  galler  wrth 

gydwy bod  ac  wrth  hen  ystatys  gruff  ap  kynan ends:  Rodd 

disgybl  disgyblaidd  o  brydydd  am  i  gowydd  nev  owdwl   uj'  iiii'^/ 
kwrs  clera  val  y  gwyr  wrth  gerdd  dant  or  radd  honno  /  ac  velly  i 
tyrvyna  hyn  o  ordyr  allyvodraeth  ar  ol  hen  yetatiis  gr:  ap  kynnan 
twyssoe  aberffro  . 

247  llyma  val  i  disgynodd  peadevigiaeth  kymrv  ir  yn  oes  mael- 
gwyn  gwynedd  /  tri  b  renin  kymrv  kyn  maelgwyn  ni  hanoedd  mael- 
gwyn  o  honvnt  /  sef  oedd  y  twyssogion  bynny  /  vrien  ap  kynfarch  / 

Rydderch  hael  /  morgan  ap  sathnin Rodri  mawr  .  .  a  gafas 

y  bendifigaeth  oil  /  ac  e£  a  ranodd  y  bendivigaeth  Rwng  tri  oi  veibion 
yn  dair  talaith  nid  amgen  i  anarawd  y  mab  hyna  talaith  aberffro  /  ]f 
gadell  talaith  ddinevwr  /  ac  i  Rodri  vychan  talaith  vathraval  / 


MS.  76  =  Hen.  246.  Love  Poems  etc.,  by  various  authors.  Paper ; 
7f  X  5|  inches ;  230  pages,  wanting  beginning  and  end — pp.  9-22  are 
repaired  and  more  or  less  imperfect ;  second  quarter  of  the  xvith 
century,  except  pp.  163-4  &  217-8  which  are  later  insertions  (c/.  Mostyn 
MS.  160)  ;  bound  in  cloth. 

The  name  "  dd  ap  Eys  ap  dd  ap  gruff  "  occurs  on  page  87  and  "  Wyllam  ap 
Oen  oes  [=Owen  owes]  this  boke"  on  p.  177.  For  other  marginalia  see  the  end 
of  this  MS. 

1-5  A  List  of  Authors.    Pages  6-8  are  blank. 

9  A  fragment  ||  diod  trystan  ac  *  *  *  .  .  .  oni  chaf  wen  #  *     b 
b.        Y  fvn  lie  irei  ###*....  c 

*****  het  mwy 

11       May  kariad  merch  im  kiriaw     ....  d 

*****  er  vy  nychv        ?  end. 

13       braise  veddwl  brwysc  gyv  *  *  &c.  C 

One  leaf,  containing  the  end  of  the  above  Cywydd  and  the  beginning  of  the 
one  following,  is  wanting. 

15       II  seuthv  rrvgeirw  ssythvnt     ....  f 

nid  vfydd  neb  end  Ivor  .  dd.  ap  gioillim 


504 


PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   76. 


b.      Ivor  avr  o  vaerwriaeth     .     .     .     , 
liir  dy  gledd  ir  heir  dy  glod  . 

17        II  ardded  y  gan  graynvyleh     .     . 
Yscwd  pan  vai  was  iscil 

b.        Kerdda  was  kar  ddywiswyrdd 
[Ac  yfed]  gidac  ivor  jj 

19  Yvydd  serchogion  oveg     .     .     . 
wyneb  yrhayldeb  ai  rroys 

20  Da  mewn  kyfF  dewi  mynyw     .     . 
[a  da'r]  byd  ni  da  ir  bedd 

22  Y  gwr  im  dirmvgv     .... 

*  «  *  aith  ifor  methavarn       (1.  6) 

23  Prid  o  swydd  prydais  iddi     .     . 
A  men  ac  iii  chana  mwy 

b.      Y  fyn  awnaeth  vwy  no  neb     .     . 
oni  cha  oed  yniach  wen 

25       doy  royddwn  dan  orddail     .     .     . 
gowni  ar  gil  y  genav 

27       peynvdd  y  rwy  yn  povni     .     .     . 
ni  bydde  vyw  om  bodd  vis 

29       Y  soweth  nos  o  ayaf    .... 
vnic  vn  yno  i  gyd 

31       Pwy  yn  darvod  pen  i  derryn     . 
dyro  ym  einioes  dra  mynych 

33       Vy  swydd  er  mwy  no  blwyddyn 
mi  a  chwi  imiachaywn 

35       Kerais  dyn  ivanck  araf    .... 
o  gyd  gof  gadw  a  gafas 

37  Ni  all  deigr  yn  lie  i  digiwy     .     . 
i  dylwyth  vyth  a  delir 

38  Pwy  o  wynedd  am  poynes     . 
diried  gidar  dv  arall 

39  Merddin  wyllt  am  ryw  ddyn  wy 
ai  chavl  o  vodd  i  chalou 

42       Kerais  ddyn  ivanck  hirwen     ,     . 
bagl  goll  a  gaiff  bigail  gwen 

44  Yr  ewig  wych  rowiog  wen     .     .'     . 
sonia  verch  kyssana  vi 

45  Y  vyn  alawnt  vain  olav     ...     . 
ar  van  yw  rroi  ovewn  rrwyd 

47  OS  heddiw  imdiswyddir     .... 
om  bryd  nida  vyth  om  bron 

48  doe  gwelais  ddyn  lednais  Ian     .     . 
arddel  dyn  or  ddol  ei  dwg 

50       blin  yw  yscar  achariad     .... 
yn  vwy  nag  yn  hwy  ym  hoys 


dd.  ap  gxoillim 


[.,  „  J 


>'  ») 


dd.  llwyd  ap  U  ap  gr. 


dd.  ap  gwillim 


f 
9 


hott  aurdrem 


dd.  ap  gwillim 


j>  ij 


dd.  ap  edmwnd 

7 

Morvs  mowddwy 

bedo  brwynllyi 

Jeuan  dyfi 


R. 


P 


htigh  pennal 
Jeuan  dyvi 


Oraihian 


brwynllys 
leioys  mon. 


oraihian 


dd.  ap  edmwnt 
dd.  up  gwillim 


POETRY   BY   AEAIHIAN  AND   OTHERS. 


505 


Robin  ddv 

'  ni  wn  i  pwy  ai  kant " 
dd.  kowper 


dd. 


ap  gun 


llim 


51       Kariad  <ai'  verch  am  kyriodd     ....  a 

mwy  nog  ol  gwenol  mewn  gwynt  Robin  ddv 

53       wylovys  wy  fal  avon     ....  b 

may  avr  ar  grys  mair  ar  groc 

am  hoedl  sioii  am  hadog  .  .   .  o  faylawr     .... 
achynnydd  or  wreicliioneD.  gvtto  or  glyn 

54-55  The  scribe,  turning  over  two  leaves,  missed  these  pap;es  which  were  filled 
iu  later  with  "  Remembrances ;  Jtem  fiff  ponnes  ^tem  for  brass  potes"  &c.  &e. 

i.         bydd  escys  kofys  kyfan  gwen  irdw ddegwm  awnai  fyddeges.      c 

57       Y  tarw  mawr  (or)  mortmeriaid     ....  d 

degfed  wyd  dwg  vyd  iawn  gvttor  glyn 

60  tri  lleiv  yn  aros  tri  llafa  evraid  &c.  Anon,  e 
b.       prydydd  yw  ieuara  yiwden  &c.  ,,      / 

61  Y  verch  awnayth  gwayw  im  ais     .     .     .     .  g 
bydeiroes  mewn  bedw  irion 

63  Jm  anvon  imay  yr  vnferch     .     . 
ar  plat  ir  vnyllid  y  plant 

64  Dydd  da  yd  vy  Riain  veinwen     . 
y  nof  i  theuaid  yn  ol 

66      dyscais  ddwyn  kariad  escyd     . 
kywir  ni  mynegr  mwy 

68       Y  vyn  ywchel  o  vonedd     .     .     . 
ar  ddyn  wyl  i  rrodwn  i 

70       blinais  yn  dwyn  er  mwyn  merch 
gist  vayn  ar  gost  y  vonwent 

72  Y  vyn  a  gaid  fwyna  i  gwedd     . 
blayn  y  berth  om  bola  ni  bydd 

73  Myvi  sydd  deynydd  dig     .     .     . 
i  byddaf  os  gwybyddir 

75  May  yn  vwyn  ai  min  o  vel     . 
mi  a  wn  ballv  hyn  bellach 

76  Gwyl  bedyr  i  bym  yn  edrych     . 
yn  anrreg  bid  teg  bid  hagr 

79       gwae  a  wnai  gaer  ne  wal 

aeth  ir  bedd  ath  Rvbyddiodd 

81        May  krygiav  dan  fvriav  vais     . 
oni  ehan  yniach  vn  waith 

83       Gway  aval  hyn  dyn  noi  dad     . 
ne  vwrw  byth  arnaf  i  y  bai 

85  Y  vyn  wyl  yw  vy  nolyr     .     . 
ofn  hyn  yw  vy  anhyned 

86  ba  ynill  obai  anerch     .... 
dervid  wen  dorvod  vnwaith 

88       Y  ddyn  vwyn  addavsf  yn  vynych 
a  choron  o  dyrch  evraid 

90  vy  rriain  penwrhevch     .... 
er  y  dyu  ni  wyr  dannerch  (1.  io)|| 

91  Y  ddyn  fwyn  o  ddawn  fonedd     .... 
pared  wn  cnned  vi  yniacli  syr  owen 

e    98430.  O 


guttyn  owain 

brrDynltys 

arai  liian 

dd.  ap  gwillim 

uraihian 

dd.  ap  gioillim 

tndyr  aled 

Hott  ap  dd.  llwyd 

Hott  ap  dd.  llwyd. 

airaihian 

gr:  ap  Un  ap  J.  vychan 

Robert  Ida 


P 


506 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   76. 


93  beth  am  pair  yn  ddiweiriach     .     . 
rrag  enaid  vyngwraig  inav 

94  Kefais  vn  kofvs  wener     .... 
klaim  ar  hwn  kayl  ym  ai  rroes 

97       Y  ddyn  ganmoledig  ddoytli     .     . 
Am  hynn  nef  in  henaid 

99       May  kvr  ymhob  kwr  im  hais 
vynvw  fv  Hon  fvnihenydd 

101       Y  ddyn  wen  oedd  ddoe  yn  anwyl 
dyddia  ami  diwedd  ym  wyd 

103       overvardd  a  gyfarvy     .... 
nid  gwell  ym  enaid  i  gael 

106       Hawdd  vydd  ir  nos  val  ossai     . 
gwr  gwen  gida  am  gwraig  i 

108       llawen  nos  iav  llyniais  oyd     .     . 
Yni  byw  am  ofni  byn 

111       troys  im  kyr  trwy  son  kariad     . 
ai  nachair  yn  iach  oric 

113       Y  verch  dec  am  an  rhegodd     . 
a  thrwyr  verch  athroi  ar  vayth 

115       Y  ddyn  vwyn  ni  ddaw  yn  vol     . 
mae  yn  gyd  ac  i  myno  gwen 

117       bryddwydiaw  obry  i  ddydwy     .     .     . 
be  rron  oil  a  byrrav  y  nydd 

120  Mae  gwen  vn  im  gwenwynaw 
y  hi  allodd  yn  hwyllo 

121  Kerais  ddyn  jvangk  hirwen     .      .     . 
oini  chair  aed  yn  iach  wen 

123       Kerais  ni  chedwais  chwaith     .     .     . 
A  hevyd  bowyd  i  bardd 

126  byth  ni  wn  beth  awnai     [wrani  in  MS.] 
i  wlad  tiawl  awnelo  twyll 

127  Y  forwyn  fwyn  er  yn  verch     .     .     » 
heb  ordderch  i  neb  erddi 

130       Oyr  yw  ymroii  ar  ymryd    .     ,     , 
A  ddaw  ko  iddi  ai  kar 

132       Myn  venaid  may  yn  vwyneb     . 
mwynen  yn  ai  min  awnaeth 

134       triffeth  mawr  i  tra  hofflr     .     . 
o  vin  hon  byddwn  vyw  yn  hwy 

136       Karv  yrwyf  karvaidd  wedd     .     . 
glwy  o  serch  drwy  gael  oes  hir 

138       Y  may  gair  ym  o  garv     .     .     . 
Hirwallt  ar  neb  ai  arwain 

140       bwriais  vryd  briwais  y  vron     . 
bid  i  fvn  y  byd"~a  v[y]nno. 

142       duw  svlgwaith  dewis  wylgamp 
i  veirwr  byd  Ivdlyd  liw 


/ 


bedo  hrwynllys 

grufi.  hirhythoc 

syr  owen 

oraihian 

syr  owen 

gwillim  tew 

bedo  aur  ddrem 

Robin  leia 

syr  owen 

bedo  irwylnlllys 

John  ap  hoU  a.p  tt.  vych 

m 
syr  lewys  ap  John 

n 
bedo  brwynllys 


I 


bedo  aiirddrem. 


P 


gr.  ap  feuan  vychan 

bedo  aurddrem 

dd.  lloyd  ap  U.  ap  gr. 

dd.  ap  edmwnt 

llowdden 

syr  John  leia 

■i 
dd.  hen 


John  ap  hoS 
dd.  ap  gwillim 


y 


POETRY   BY   ORAIHIAN   AND   OTHERS. 


507 


144       gway  fi  nawyr  y  vorwyn     .     .     . 
o  kan  bader  ond  kowydd 

148  Y  vercb  dan  yr  aiir  lathr  loyw     .     . 
tri  eiddwayw  serch  trwyddo  y  sydd 

149  gwelais  ir  fEair  ddisglaer  ddyn     . 
nida  ui  ddowaid  i  daw 

152       Y  rriain  ar  gwaed  rrywioc     .     .     . 
barnedic  gar  bron  ydwyt 

154       Goval  am  ddal  meddyliav     .      .     . 
odyre  i  fFais  hyd  ar  i  flfen 

156       Y  fyn  addwya  owynedd     .... 
mi  a  gela  gwen  gael  a  gad 

159  Y  verch  o  rryw  van  or  byd     .     . 
ath  gael  or  mab  mwya  atli  gar 

160  Y  vyn  bach  vwyn  i  bychedd     .     . 
o  myn  diiw  drossom  ni  yn  dav 

162       Y  vyn  addvwyn  vwyneiddvawr     . 
ai  vannedd  el  ir  vonnwenn 

J  64       Y  verch  or  vynachlog  vayn     .     .     . 
na  cha^yn  vod  yn  ordderch  yd 

166  Tair  gwragedd  i  gwedd  ai  gwawn 
madde  bvn  er  meddy  byd 

167  Y  verch  bv  rrom  anherchion     .     . 
bid  lawen  y  vedwen  vach 

169       Y  verch  wedir  glod  aw... 
a  ro  i  ti  wra  teg 

171       Y  Rriain  wych  rrywen  v^yd     .     .     . 
vyth  amen  nith  ddamynon 

173       Y  vyn  ai  hawdd  ym  vyw  yn  hir     . 
Yn  dy  bwyll  venaid  bellach 

175       May  dolvr  drwc  imi  draw     . 
ym  dal  dros  y  dolvr  drwg 

177       Y  vyn  alawnt  vain  olef    .... 
a  rodded  pen  im  ganed  gwen 

179       Y  verch  wyl  vry  ychelwaed     . 

Nef  oyd  dy  gael  yn  fay  [=feu] 
182       Y  verch  dec  i  gwedd  meddvnt 

0  Ian  gwy  liw  ewyn  gynt     .     .     . 

yn  iach  wen  vynych  anerch 

184      Koron  owdwl  kowrain  ydwy     .     . 
gwylan  hvf  gwialen  hardd 

186  Y  lloer  wen  a  lliw  r  wanec     . 
o  dalia  mwy  diawl  a  ami 

187  J  may  goval  im  kalon     .... 
ynyn  nibwy  hyn  no  hi 

189  Y  verch  ddichwedl  ddiledlyth     .     , 
dy  vowrnwy  duw  i  varny 

190  Govaly  heb  dv  heb  dal     ...     , 
Penvynych  vydd  pen  veinioes 


dd.  ap  gwillim 


bedo  brwynllys 

arai  Man 

bedo  aurddrew, 

aiirddrem 

oraihian 

Jeium  tew  brydydd 

dd.  ap  gwillim 

bedo  brwynllys 

Robin  ddv 

hoU  siurdtcal 

bedo  aurddrem 

bedo. 

sjv  hiiw  llwyd 

lewys  morganwg 

"  dyn  hiraethlon  " 

Robin  ddv 

John  ap  Res 

bedo  brwynllys 

dd.  ap  gwillim 


f 
9 
h 


P 


Tudyv  Aled 
O  2 


508 


PKNIARTH    MANUSCRIPT    76. 


193 

195 

197 

199 

201 

203 

206 

208 

210 

211 

213 

215 

216 

217 

219 

220 

222 


223 


Medra  ompwyll  mydr  om  pen 
mor  dec  i  hanrreg  a  hi 

Pand  oer  y  penyd  a  wn 
y  rrydd  duw  arwydd  dial 

tv  dv  dyllvaii  tydwyll     .... 
arglwydd  penllyn  hoywin  hir 

Prvdd  wy  val  i  parai  ddjn     .'    ■ 
nid  yn  boen  dyn  yn  y  byd 

0  dduw  ond  Irist  oedd  nad  rrydd 
i  die  ym  ai  dwg  ymaith 

serchassais  ar  chwaer  essyll     .     . 
vavny  ymvyw  ne  varw  yn  y  van 

Maeng  hwyn  am  vorwyn  yn  fwv 
y  rraw  bal  awna  rryw  ben 

Y  verch  a,  gerais  yn  vaith     .     . 
teg  aed  poed  tagv  iddi 

y  ferch  a  symyd  perchen     . 
onich  kalr  mwy  nich  karaf 

gwae  wr  mvl  a  garo  merch     .     . 
trimis  im  dewis  i  del 

dydd  da  ir  vw[y]na  ar  a  vv 
dros  i  bod  deiroes  heb  wr 


John  up  HoU  ap  U. 
bedo  brwynllys 
dd.  ap  gwillim 


Jeuan  dyvi 

gruff  ap  Jeuan 

tudyv  aled 

lewys  mon 

"  ni  wn  i  pwy  ai  kant " 

bedo  aurddrem 

dd.  ap  edmiont 


f 


h 


I 


"  ni  wn  i  pwy  ai  kant " 
dd.  ap  gwillim 


gr.  ap  Jeu.  ap  U.  vychan 

Y  ddyn  a  wise  addaw  yn  wen     ....  « 
ath  gael  or  mab  mwya  ath  gar                           hugh  llwyd 

Y  vercli  dawel  wallt  velen     .... 
wyd  ymy  odei  yinaith  dd.  ap  gwillim 

y  ddyn  facb  addwyna  fv     .     .     .     . 

ni  bych  ond  tra  heyddych  hyn  Y  gioineyivas 

Karv  yrwy  kyrvaidd  wedd     . 
i  gayl  0  enaid  i  gwr 

Val  i  royddwn  vawl  rwyddaf 
a  men  awylldiodd  vy  mvn 

Kynnar  vod  kain  arweddvyd     ....  r 

nith  yr  havl  vnwaith  ar  hon  „  ,, 

doeth  yw  mab  ysbryd  athad     ....  s 

a  bren  duw  i  brynnv  dyn     (i.  32)  *****  * 

Marginalia,  written  apparently  in  the  same  hand  as  "  Wyllam  ap  Oen  oes  this 
boke"  (p.  177).  Probably  pages  54-'5,  163-4,  and  217-8  are  also  by  the  same 
scribe. 

u.       dy  gas  awyd  ith  geisi  anvvvy  ni  vyn  &o.  (p.  59).  i 

Anerch  drwy  serch  yn  siwr  y  veinir  &c.  (p.  69).  u 

kowgwr  a  bostwr  le  bo  ai  weniaith  &e.  (p.  75).  v 

fe  ran  oeth  gisio  fyraid  o  galwn  trwy  gellwair  &c.  (p.  77).  w 

gwavr  dyn  a  golles  i  air  da  &c.  (p.  79).  .r 

blodevn  Eosgown  nis  gwelais  er  talm  &c.  (p.  173).  y 

heravth  braw  saieth  braw  sone  o  aler  i  rwylais  i  degon  2 

na  bay  en  poboU  en  ffodolon  a  nine  en  dav  vn  vn  don 


b. 
c. 
d 
e. 
/• 


h. 


gwyr  gwragedd  down  wedd  dynion  am  kar    .     . 
vain  iawn  i  hayl  yn  kayl  kwyn  (pp.  187  &  186). 


POETRY  BY   LEWIS  GLYN  COTHI,  509 


MS.  77  =  Hen.  74.  Fobtry  by  Lewis  Glyn  Cothi  and  various 
other  authors,  the  Statute  of  Ge:  ap  Kynan  etc.,  iu  llie  autograph 
of  Sir  Thomas  Wiliems.  Paper;  8}  x  5|  inches;  450  pages — the 
first  half  was  written  apparently  in  1576  (p.  1)  and  agrees  in  style 
with  Conway  Jl/S.  2G  ;  slightly  imperfect ;  in  a  box. 

1  ILyuer  Tho:   Wiliems   ***##"  physyc'5'r  "   (added  later). 
b.       Wylo  a  gwilio  dirgehvg  .  .  .  yw  naw  gelyn  y  golwg  a 
V.      Mil. a  phedwarcant  medd  Maelor  b 

(trigain)  pan  gad  drygae  Gwigmor 

treth  ami  ar  benu  tri  thymor  y  troes  ;      Tarll  tros  ''™  ^ 

d.       Three  Englynion  on  the  number  of  hours  and  days  in  the  year,  and 
i  gael  yr  ijmjd  D.  Nanmor 

2  f  St/r  Gi:  llwyd  Marchoc  o  ddinorveg 

Dydd  daed  Ruffudd  hael  viidd  cerdd  &c.  c 

b.  Edmwnd  ^arll  Rismwnd  a  roed  (ir  ^esu  &c.   1456          D.  Nantmor  d 

c.  Mi  a  vvra  nowmis  haeach  y  mol  gridven  wraoh  &c.  a  fragment.  e 
3-9     Table  of  Contents. 

10       Mnwae  Cleddyfae'r  miiwyr:  Caledvwlch  cleddyf  Arthur  &c.  f 

Cywydeu  ac  Odleu  gan  Lewys  Glyii  Cothi. 

\\       Dart  arglwydd  Herbart  baham  (n:\  thorres)     ....        g 
vn  clo'r  King  Ed  wart  yw'r  Herbart  hwn  / 

16       Gwr  yw  Syr  Risiart  ag  a  ry  (i  win)     ....  h 

Salmon  yn  ti'oi  'mron  y  tri  moroedd 

19       Mi  af  cyan  yr  haf  vy  rhann  (vu  redeg)     ....  i 

A  phoed  yn  ganmlwydd  arglwydd  i  ddel. 

22       Bonedd  dwylann  nedd  del  yn  wyn  (y  sant)  .  .       It 

Nawdd  yr  angylion  ar  nonn  glynn  nedd. 

24       Davydd  sy  winwydd  ab  Sion  (o  dir  Gwyr)  ...        I 

Teilo  ai  noddo  ai  wiuw3"dden. 

27       "Davydd  ab  Sion  rydd  o  wreiddyn  (divalch     ....         m 
cf  yw  dewi  sant  ovawd  a  Sion  / 

29       Pa  diiy  o  Gymry  a  ddwg  ym  (lawer     ....  ^    n 

ag  nid  el  led  gwavn  oi  duy.  j 

31       Ai  (.'yniio'u  gwreiddio  o  vewn  grym   (wythwyr)   ....        o 

Henrhi  ai  dyly  ar  Gymrii  y  gid  / 
34       Marchog  tir  gwenog  gwae  ddyn  gwann  (oediog)     .     .     .  p 

ar  vro'n  i  gwyno  a  phlwyf  Gweuog/ 

36       Pedwar  gwreiddyn  dar  dyrys  (i  gynon     ....  q 

o  bed  war  imp  dar  o  rys  / 

S8       Adeiniog  o  vardd  a  adwaenyn  (wyf     ...  r 

nag  a  rood  o  droed  i  oradain  / 

40       Dewis  cginyn  ydyw  ^euan  (wych)     ....  s 

aed  oes  ag  einioes  ir  eginyn  / 

42       Jeuan  ab  phylib  dan  ifvor  (irwyd)     ....  t 

da  a  du  ydwyd  Jeuan  / 

45  Pwy  gwraidd  maeshyfaidd  pwy  y  sydd  (yn  hael)    .    ,    .    .   ii 
ag  yn  y  gwraidd  egin  gras 

46  Bon  llyr  Crug  eryr  idan  goron  (Loegr  ...  v 
ar  y  gwr  goran  n  Grug  eryr 


510  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   77. 

49       Val  enaid  a  chorph  i  vaelienydd  (rym     ....  a 

a  duw  a  ranno  da  ir  enaid  /  L.  G.  Cothi 

51       Yt  grair  llann  Bisdair  o  bedwar  ban  (byd)     ....         6 
Morgan  gwr  a  rann  ar  helm  grib 
(haearn)  ab  howel  ab  PLylib     .... 
Yt  Bawl  abostawl  plwyf  llan  Bistair  / 

53  Rys  Owain  rymys  val  y  ron  (o  bryd)     ....  c 
nef  -weithian  yw  rhann,  Owain  a  Rys  / 

55       Caer  ysdwyth  duylwytb.  adai  dan  (benyd)     ....  d 

YD  bar  a  eisde  'n  Aber  ysd,wyth  / 

57       Mastr  Watgyn  penrhyn  gwin  per  (a-damaag)  ....       e 
yt  gytgerdd  eto  gwatgyn 

59       Masdr  Watgyn  vrychwyn  gwlad  vrychan  (ryswr)   ....      / 
wyth  o  vrychan  ith  vreichiau 

62       5  ddwyn  arofyn  llei'r  addvnwn  (gael    ....  g 

caniadwr  Siancyn  ydwyi' 

64       D'aur  ym  drahaeam  vyth  a  drig  (im  byw)  ...         h 

er  dy  voli  ym  ■wyr  ririd  vlaidd  / 

66       Ynhwr  Baldwyn  es  dwynos    ....  i 

val  i  bv  oldal  ynhwr  Baldwyn  / 

69       O  duw  pwy  ynglan  Gwy  a  gai  (arabedd)     .     .  .  k 

i  lenwi  gwin  ar  lann  Gwy  / 

72       Ban  ddelai  bob  rhai  i  bob  bryn  (nid  dim)     ....  / 

yn  lie  i  dad,  wellwell  i  del  / 

75       O  winwydd  davydd  vyngredivel  (gwyn)  *  .  m 

wyr  Elysdan  Glodrydd     (1.  38)  || 
X.B.  Here  fi^e  leaTes,  at  least,   have  been  torn  out  of  the  MS.  containing 
poems  nnmbered  respectively  28-30,  and  page  77  begins  vrith  the  last  four  lines 
of  an  Awdl  which  ends  thuB  : 

nawdd  duw  arno  nudd  y  deyrnas  / 
77       Sion  hyredr  ar  varch  Sion  Havart  (alawnt)     ....       n 
pwyr  pvmnyn  a  wyr  pvm  synwyr  Sion  / 

79       Y  ddwy  wragedd  rywiogach  ...  o 

y  wch  i  bo  bendith  ych  bardd . 

82       Dvdd  da  ir  wreigdda  a  roes     ...  p 

ni  chywydd  i  verch  ^euan 

54  Y  wraig  oraii  o  igain     ...  q 
a  thalii  i  phwyth  i  Elis 

87       Annas  Euron  Sion  vynghm-s  henwi  (hael)     .     .  .  r 

ywT  llenn  a  ry  Haw  Annes  . 

89       Y  Hew  oedd  eurlliw  i  wallt     ....  s 

ladd  dwyfil  a  chledd  davydd  / 
92       Aiir  Angharad  law  arian     ....  t 

dair  oes  i  roi  deuryw  win/ 
95       Meirchion  glann  Eithion  wyd  ynydd  (a  nos)  .     .     ,     n 

a  gwiis  a  marchog,  megys  Meircliiawn  / 

97       Glan  dudur  gloew  wyndodeg  ....  v 

o  ddwyvil  end  vn  ddavad  Jeaan  Brydydd  Hir 

99       leiian  gefnwan  gyfiownwawd  ....  id 

ag  oi  Lil  mi  a  gaf  had  /  Ttidiir  Penllyn 


POETRY   OP   GUTTO'B  GLYNN.  511 

102       Y  gwyr  dar  vu  nynu  naid     ...  a 

ach  bodd  yw'r  ddwyrodd  eraill.  Hoel  Cilan 

105       Y  teyrn  doeth  terwyii  du     .     .     .     .  b 

i  howel  wych  mor  hael  oedd  Choilim  dew 

108       Am  eni  Sacarias     ....  c 

a  ro  duw  i  ward  ]feuan  L,  Glyn  Cothi 

111       Ay  druan  vawd  lydan  ledr     ....  d 

gael  twyll  m  yngoleuad  duw  /  jfolo  Goch 

115       Dyn  wyf  ni  chais  bod  yn  wych     ....  e 

dros  gof  betai  deiroes  gwyr  .  Deio  ap  Jeu.  du 

119       Meredudd  marw  ir  ydwyd     ....  / 

hon  a  gaiff  ihvn  igwr  JLowdden 

The  Poetry  of  Gvtto'r  Glynn. 

122       Mowr  yw  r  gair  ain  y  dairodd     ....  </ 

ir  gwr  hael  ar  wraic  ai  rhoes  Gutto'r  Glyuii 

126       Mynnwn  y  mod  mewn  vn  mann     ....  h 

cwff  euraid  caffo  hiroes     No.  48 

A  whole  gathering,  coutaiuing  poems  numbered  respectively  49-56, 
is  wanting  here. 

129       Duw  a  roes  ym  o  dir  saint     ....  i 

siavs  na  mach  Syr  Sion  mechain     No.  57 

131       ^olo  tuthiodd  at  ^thael     ....  k 

Trvnio  a  atto  'r  annedd 

134       Eoi  tuy  'r  wy  vry  ar  y  vron     ....  I 

mae  menditli  am  y  maendo 

137       Yngred  pei  gallwn  redeg     ....  m 

tuy  'r  bejrdd  a  phoet  hir  y  bo 

140       Mae  vn  ceidwad  mewn  cadair     ....  n 

Modveddau.  meudwy  vyddaf 

144       Prelad  ar  yn  gwlad  o  glwyd  (i  ddyvrdwy)     .     .     o     .         o 
vn  duw  ath  ato  i  lywio  'r  wlad  / 

147       Uawen  wyf  im  plwyf  am  plas     ....  p 

yw  yn  maeth  an  llvniaeth  an  llawenydd 

150       Tri  llu  aeth  i  Gymru  gynt     ....  q 

Cymry  a  dry  yn  dy  raid  . 

153         Tristach  yw  Cymru  trostyn     ....  c 

naill  ai  dduw  ai  'n  Haw  ddiawl  U'n  ap  Guttyn 

155       Mae  lief  oer  raal  Ilifeiriaint     ....  s 

a  von  y  try  v'enaid  draw  .  Guto'r  Glyn 

158      Tyfodd  yn  rhyd  y  Tavwy     ....  t 

ddiainc  o  cherdda  ddaear  /  Huw  Penial. 

162       Dwyn  y  bvm  er  dawn  y  byd     ....  u 

bid  i  allu  ir  byd  wellwell         No.  08  Ho't  ap  Gr:  Goch 

N.B.  Cywydd  merch  o  penial.  No.  70,  by  Bedo  Brwynllys  is  wanting  here. 

165  W.  Salesbury's  preface  to  the  Statute  of  Gn:  ap  Cvnah  ryw  amser 
Tywysawc  Gwynedd  ar  y  gwyr  wrth  gerdd,  heb  law  hynny  y  mae  yma  anowanec 
DRAETiiAWT  yn  perthynv  ir  ddwy  gerdd. 

Wrth  y  Boneddicion  yr  eisteddwyr  ar  gwyr  wrth  gerdd. 
Gan  ymy  dybiet  (wyrda  vrddasawl  cyd  hot  yspes  gan  bawp  mor  ddisenil  ao  mor 
ddoethiou  ytych)   na  byddai    yn    amperthynasol,   amyn   yn    beth  porth   ychwy 


512  PENIA.RTH   MANUSCRIPT   77. 

gymerfel  golwe  ar  ddosparthwaith  pendeiiio  or  hen  amser,  nid  amgen  no  GrW.  ap 
Cynan  :  dan  ba  un  megys  a  duw  yny  blaen  y  bydd  y  danoch  chwithau  ar  vyrrder, 
y  bu  (mal  y  darllenir  yn  i  Cronicl  ef  cisteddvod  arbenic  ar  wyr  Wrth  gerdd)  y  gwr 
mal  y5  oedd  ef  ehvn  yn  gerddgar  iawn,  velly  o  ddehewyt  meddwl  y  gwnaeth  ef 
gwbl  drefn  ae  Statut  berfaith  ar  y  peth  .  yr  hon  yn  hir  o  amser,  a  safawdd  yn 
gyfraith  ys  yr  hon  yd  y  dydd  hwn  y  mae'r  gwyr  or  ddwy gerdd  yn  ymarddelw  o 
honei  yw  chadw  ai  chj'nual  yn  bendant  Can  hynny  meddaf  y  tybiais  y  gwnawn 
beth  nyd  ewbl  anwiw  ar  gydrycbioli  y  pruddap  ehwi  y  ddywededic  Statut,  erwydd 
y  copi  a  ddaeth  im  Haw  i :  sef  megys  y  galloch  gwedy  ychwy  y  g'reelet  a  synniaw 
arni  gan  ych  pwyll  dderbyu  nei  roi  hcibio,  arallu,  dirymio  advywio  a  chadarnhau 
oil  vanneii  neA  bwytheii,  ai  uebvn  o  honvnt,  y  cyfryw  vodd  ac  y  deall  yfh 
doethineb  chwi,  y  vod  yn  addvwyn  neu  ddivwyn,  yn  gyvaddas  neu  yc  anoyfaddas 
ir  oes  presentol  .  A  channa  phery  dim  y  dan  haiil  ar  a  ddychymioo  dyn  mwy  nag 
ynteft  ehvn  yn  yr  amcan  ddarparedic,  chwitheu  (tebycafi)  ellwch  yn  gyfiawn 
ne-widio  yr  hynn  a  welochwi  oeh  cydgyngor  y  defnydd  yn  erchi  .  Ac  mal  hynn 
gan  ervy nn  ar  benawdur  pob  iowngerS  a  gwir  gyssondap  rwyddhau  rhagocli,  y 
canaf  yn  iach  ychwy  dros  hynn  o  bryd  .  o  vouwent  S.  pawl  yn  Llundain  y  6  .  or 
Mai  1567  ych  ewyllysgar  garwr 

Wiliam  Salesbury 

167  Statut  Gruff,  ap  Cynan  ar  y  ywyr  wrth  gerdd :  ILyma 
y  sawl  ysydd  rydd  vddunt  glera,  gwr  wrth  gerdd  auafus  megys  gwr 
dall,  discipl  spas,  a  discipl  disciplaidd,  a  discipl  pencerddiaidd  a 
phencerdd  .  discipl  spas  cerdd  davod  a  ddyly  wybot  sillafau,  a  phvmp 

mesur  ar  englyn  &c yn  ftiscipl    disciplaidd  y  dyly  wybot 

dfiuddec  o  vesurae  &c Y  discipl  pencerddiaidd  a  ddyly  wybot 

yr  oil  sillafau  a  rheol  yr  ymadroddion  yn  ol  y  Gramatec,  a  dosparth 
y  canghaneddion,  gochel  yr  oil  veiau,  eanv  yn  gydsain  neu  yu  gyf- 

owchgerdd  ar  xxj  .  or  mesurae  &c yn  bencerdd  y  dyly  wybot 

y  ewbl   &c Angtoanec  am  yr  vn  defnydd :  Tri  bardd 

Caw  y  sy  =  prifvardd,  posvardd,  arwyddvardd  &c.  It  ends  with  a 
list  of  poems  illustrating  different  metres  together  with  a  tabular 
analysis  of  the  24  metres .  Tresiol  .  .  .  .  |  oooo  |  [  |  oooo  |  o  |  . 

193       Y  donn  ewynlon  wenlas o 

nawdd  duw  a  mair  to  dydd  mwy     No.  71        Gruff.  Gryg 

196  TLyma  ddangos  pa  beth  yw  cynghanedt  ■■  Cynghanedd  a  vydd 
o  gydsain  cydsoniaid,  a  chyfnewidbogeiliaid  &c.  &c.  .  .  meddai  John 
Philipp 

198       Duw  mor  afrwydd  ar  vlwyddyn     ....  I 

anfiEawd  i  ddyddbrawd  na  ddaw  .  ILn  ap  Gutty h 

200       Y  gwr  vwch  bgn  gorvwch  byd     ....  i 

yma  dddw  nef  madde  i  ni  Doctor  Joan  Kent 

203       Gwnn  na  allaf  gan  dravael     ....  ( 

o  vair  a  oes  benyd  vwy  /  Givilim  ap  Sefnyti 

206       Tabic  yw  gwynedd  meddir  .... 

eiirvawl  ior  wra  val  ef  /  Gruff.  Gryc 

209  TLyma  gyneddfae  24  marchoc  oeddent  yn  llys  Arthur  bob  tri 
a  thri  addaschwedl  o  ynys  Brydein  /  Tri  aur  davodioc  llys  Arthur, 
Gwalchmai  ap  Gwyar,  a  Drudwas  ap  Tryffin,  a  liwlod  ap  madoc  ap 

vthur ends  :    Tri  chynghoriaid  varchocion  oedd   ya    llys 

Arthur  /  Cynor  Clyduo,  ac  Aron  ap  Cynvarch,  a  Meirchion  ap  Uowarch 
hen,    Cyneddfaey  rhai  hynny  pa  ryw  orchest  bynac —      left  unfinished. 

213  ILyma  dri  thlws  ar  ddec  o  ynys  Brydein,  eithr  digwydd  y  gyd 
gyda  Mer3in,  llen-aur  Arthur  yngherniw  a  dyfnaint,  pwy  bynac  ai 
dani  ef  a  welai  bawb,  ac  ni  welai  neb  efo  i  ble  bynnac  yddai  /  ends  : 
(13)  Mantell  degeu  eurvron,  ni  wasanaethai  ir  neb  a  dorrai  i  ffriodas 
nai  morwyndod,  ac  yr  neb  y  byddai  Ian  yw  gwrybyddai  hyd  y  llawr, 
ac  ir  neb  a  dorrai  i  ffriodas  ni  ddoe  byd  i  harffcd,  ac  am  hyny  'r  oedc| 
cenvigen  wrth  ddegaii  Eurvron. 


THE  STATUTE   OF  GRIFFITH  AP   KYNAN,   ETC.  513 

216  Crair  cred  ced  cynnydd,  creavdr  llu  bedydd  ....  a 
dod  ym  gyfraniad  oth  wlad  atli  wledd  Jolo  Goch 

219       Duw  gwyn  er  digio  euyd     ....  b 

gwnaed  duw  ag  enaid  howel  Tudur  Aied 

222       O  gyvarch  yn  y  gavell     ....  c 

duw  a  wnel  yu  dwyti  yw  wledd     No.  81  D.  ap  Edmicnd 

N.B.  Several  leaves  are  missing. here  eontaiuing  Cyw.  i/ ilrindud  Xo.  82  by  Teu. 
Dculwyn,  Cyio.  i  ofyn  muntcll  i  Elen  Chwitnai  No.  83  by  Gutto'r  Glyuu,  aud 
Cyw.  y  seren  Comet  pan  aned  mam  Yivein  Tudur  No.  84. 

225       Grnffudd  beisi'udd  bowysraii     ....  d 

a  gwin  yn  naunau  a  gaf  /  No.  86  Tudur  Penllyn 

227       Tyfodd  vii  o  blant  difeth     ....  e 

na  bo'r  gwr  eb  aur  ag  yd  /  Gulto'r  Glyn 

230       Y  gwi'ollam  (we  lew)  ragorawl  lys     .  .  / 

rhoi  a  chad  mae'n  rhyw  i  cliwi  llyivarch  Benttcrch 

233       Doeth  im  cof  heb  i  ofyn     ....  g 

Duw  gwae  vi  a  dwg  efo  Gnijf.  Giceflynt 

237       Ymlwyddyn  yr  ymladdwyr     ...  h 

i  daw'r  edn  dewr  i  iidwedd  dd.  llwyd  ap  lln  ap  Gr. 

240  Y  ddeuwr  arglwyddiaidd  ....  dd.  llwyd  ap  llh  ap  gr.  i 
i  gadw  aelwyd  Gydwaladr  jy  Nanmor  medd  J.  Philip 

243       Gair  angel  y  gwr  yngod     ....  k 

dy  benn  y  w  pen  ar  bob  peth  Gwilim  ap  Jeu.  hen 

245       Drwc  iawii  vydd  pob  anobaith     ....  I 

bid  ddyn  cs  y  byd  a  ddaw  Lewis  glyn  Cothi 

24:7       Y  ddyn  vwyn  a  ddaw  n  vynych     ....  jii 

bes  cae  vil  drwy  nas  cae  vo  llh  ap  Guttvn 

250  Gwae'r  vn  a  ddug  ir  ynys  ....  h 
ond  i  groen  wedi  grinaw  (i.  28)      ||  No.  94.        {Lewis  Mon) 

According  to  the  table  of  contents  there  is  a  lacuna  here,  containing  the  end 
of  the  preceding  and  the  beginning  of  the  following  cywydd. 

251  II  gwr  rhyvedd  mewn  gwir  hefyd  ....  q 
CVS  mein  ers  drwg  hwsmon  wyd                     Un  ap  Gvtlvn 

253       Torraist  orn  teuraist  arnaf     ....  ^t 

Cent  neur  aetliost  mewn  ceintiach    No.  96    Rhes  Gochoryri 

2.56  Tijdur  ap  Gron.  a  wnaeth  priorduy  Bangor  Maelgwn  Owynedd  y  sydd  yn 
gorwedd  yn  ynys  Seirioel  a  wnaeth  priorduy  penmoii  a  chlawswrduy  Caei-  Gybi 
lln  ap  Jer  drwyndwn  a  wnaeth  manachloc  Aber  ConivBy  a  phrlorduy  Uaiivaes/ 

257  Y  vvn  deg  a  vendigwyd  ....  n 
enaid  a  chorph  nid  ywch  waeth  /           deio  ap  Jeuan  dv.  I 

258  Eira  myuydd  amlwc  llv  .  .  .  .  }■ 
chwanog  ieuanc  imbrofi  / 

b.      Gwych  y  gwnaeth  eurych.  gwneuthuriad  (divai)  &e.  s 

Grvff  ap  leu.  ap.  ttn  vychan 

259  Araith  Gruff,  ap  leuan  ap  Un  vychan  ar  y  ddiarebgoel 
waethwaeth  vaensaer  wellwell  brenn  saer        98 

waethwaetli  Saerniaeth  newydd  far  naddvain)   ....  t 

y  Saer  o  lann  Sain  Sior  Iwyd  / 
Bellach  hawdd  yw  deuaii  yr   anghenawl   achosviyd   yn    hederus 
am  cymhellawdd,  i  ddamvnaw    arnocb  .   .   .  ymdreiglaw  hyd  ataf,  i 
ddangos  rhagorgamp  ar  adnewyddv   vynghyfaiieddv  o  adeiladaeth  vy 
hendaid  gynt  Ac. 


514 


PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   77. 


262       O  ^esu  byth  eisiau  bavdd     ....  (8 

nennbren  pob  awen  pe  byw      97  Lewis  Mon 

264  Caws  y  wlat  hwnt :  Caws  dv  llann  Beudv  val  hen  badell  b 

(gwrach)  a  gwrych  ar  i  dafell 

Caws  yr  ast  o  dre'r  Gastell 

Caseg  a  wnai  caws  gwynn  well  /  Tudur  Alet 

265  O  driplietli  y  pregethir     ....  c 
ag  ieuanc  wyf  dra  bwyf  byw     loo     Ch.  llwyd  d.  ap  E. 


267 
270 
273 
276 
278 
2«1 


Gwae  evrvab  gwiw  i  arfaeth     .     . 
rhoed  duw  ir  gweddwon  rhad  teg 

Och  Gymrv  vynych  gamvraint 
gobeithaw  a  ddaw  i  ddwyf 

Vn  vodd  yw'r  byd  cyngyd  eel     . 
hvd  a  Uiw  nid  gwiw  yn  gwaith 

Mair  edrych  arnaf  ymerodres     . 
iddo  yw  lywio  yn  gywy  laes  / 

Y  mae  vtgyrn  am  watgyn     .     ,     . 
i  weit.h  ef  o  avr  a  thir 


Doctor  Joan  Cent 


Doctor  Cent 


f 


Jolo  Goch 


h 


Howcl  Swrdwal 


Doctor  Jo.  Cent. 
Doctor  Joan  Cent 


dd.  llwyd  Un  ap  Gr. 
Dauid  ap  Edmwnd 


Mae  rhai  ni   phryderai  ymhryd 
ir  cysegr  o  bare  Jesv 

284       dynion  a  roes  duw  enyd     .     .     . 
o  gwnawn  fo  gaiff  nef  ai  gwnel 

287   Cywydd  barv  Owain  ap  mered'  a  heiliarth  ymhowys 

Gwr  lidgawdd  a  garw  ledgynt     ....  / 

ar  (vyneb  cynn  dirioned  /        Gr.  llwyd  ap  dd.  ap  Einion 

290  Odl  Detet :  Dewi  cjn  d'eni  cad  ordeiniaw,  man  tn 

Mycyw  ith  weddiaAV     .... 
pob  tuedd  pawb  at  dewi 

293       Mawr  vwch  aic  y  marchogir 
y  gwr  hwn  briw'r  gair  hir 

295  Englynion  Arthur  ai  nai  Eliwlod 

Ys  rhyvedd  cyd  bwyf  bardd     ...  o 

ai  gorddyfnaint  hyd  angae  :  Anon 

Talm  o  hen  ynglynion  gorchestol 

301  -folyn  pwy'r  ^olyn  pa  ry w  aelod  (sych)  &c.      d.  ap  Edm :  p 

b.  Garwvlin  gur  drablin  gwrdrAvbl  (gwyr  gibws)  &c.      „       q 

c.  llvn  pel  llvn  bogel  a  bigwyd  /  a  phlain  &c.      Tudr  Aled  r 

d.  Synwyr  sarph  sy'n  orav  som  d.  ap  Edmwnd  *• 

e.  Owning  caunwsing  cywion  isel  cainc  Bleddyn  ddu  y  cwd  t 

302  Gwaer  siaced  wlltred  wallt  drosgwyl  gocb  &c.  « 

Bleddyn  ddv  icas  y  cwd 

b.  hen  sarred  ar  goled  mi  ai  gwelwn  wrthyn  &c.  v 

c.  Surion  yw  dy  bibau  ol  sut  &c.  dd  ap  Edmwnd  w 

d.  pob  Uais  a  gerai.s  pob  gwirion  &c.  TF"   lleyn  x 

e.  (Allan  y  trigi  di  dichwibl  Ac.)  y 
There  is  apparently  a  lacuna  here,  as  the  next  page  begins  with  the  four  last 

lines  of  a  Cywydd  attributed  first  of  all  to  CriMur  Ghjnn  aud  ending  thus : 

cwd  moel  lythr  caead  mwy  ttn  ap  Guttun  . 


TKIADS,    ASTROLOGY,    AND   POETRY.  515 

303  Triads  :  Tair  person  y  trindot  y  tad  ar  mab  ar  ysbryd  glan  / 
vn  tri  arbennic,  yr  vu  duw  &c.  followed  by — 1  Tri  lleithic  llwyth, 
2  Trichad  varchawc,  3  Tri  Galouydd  Y.B.,  4  Tri  thaleithiaioc  Y.P., 
5  Tri  glew  Y.p.,  6  Tri  thrahawc,  1  Tri  ysgynnyddaer  y.p.,  8  Tri 
gwrdd  veichiad  y.p.,  9  Tri  thrwyddedawc  y.p.,  10  l^air  overgad  y.p. 

307  Naw  nyn  a  wnaethbwyd  yn  gyflawn  o  Adda — tri  a  gafas  i 
gadernid,  tri  i  nerth,  tri  i  ddoethineb. 

b.  Tair  gwragedd  a  gawsant  pryd  Eva.  a 


308*     dd  gocb,  his  wife  &  children 

309       Vn  dav  naw  dan  braw  medd  brawd     ....  h 

yw  kowglys  y  krangk  or  gogledd 

311  Pen  fo  y  llevad  yn  benna  ar  y  pysc  /  ne  ar  y  krank  ne  ar  y 
Sarff  /  t  ai  bod  hwynt  dan  y  sygvn  honno  ar  lleuad  dan  gvddedigeth 
y  ddavar,  arrwyddion  da  fydd  y  rrai  hyny  i  roi  Meddeginiaeth 
redegog  O  bydd  y  llevad  ar  yr  awyr  yn  vchel  wedi  kyfodi ;  perigl  yw 

i  roi  kyfog  i  neb ends :  lliw  avr  drwnk  sydd  dda  //  lliw 

gwefr  ar  drwnk  sydd  iach  ag  vchel  i  nattvr  /  lliw  arian  iach  yw  a 
gwanach  i  nattvr  nor  Hall  /  lliw  dv  yr  afon  ne  ffynon  tra  gwan  ywr 
kwmplexion  ar  nattvr TFrn:    Thomas   , 

318(6)  Annerch  di  Rydderch  deirawr  or  wythuos  &c.       T.  Aled  c 

(a)  Marw  vu  nenn  a  phenn  y  ffair  (oed  odieth)  &c.  d 

Rob*  ap   Gr.  ap  Madoc 

319  Tvdur  hawc  natur  cnotied  at  wraidd  pawb  &c.  Rhes  nanmor   e 

b.  Groesv  gras  "j&v  nyd  secur  (y  gras  &c.       Jer.  vynglwyt  f 

c.  pan  ddarvii  am  dvdur  pen  ni  ddervydd  (ei  waith  ....     g 
oe  gladdiad  mae  prelad  prudd  0,  ap  Gr.  ap  dd  vychan 

d.  Sybwb  or  bobl  ansyber  (ydych)  &c.         David  ap  Gtni.  h 

320  Gwr  ai  vab  yn  gywir  vydd  &c.  Anon    i 

b.  Chwegrwn  .i.  socer.  Chwegr  .i.  socrus.  Daw  hader  .i.  gener.  k 

c.  Val  gwr  ymwanwr  ymysg  (pob  afall  &c.  Aneirin  Gwowdrydd   I 

d.  Mae'n  calyn  bob  dyn  bendevic   (deo  &c.  Jolo   Goch.  m 

e.  Da  gweddeu  ni  'n  dau  yn  dwyu  cloch  &c.  Anon,  n 
f.  Da  gweddeu  ni  'n  dau  mis  Mai  mwyn  (eurferch  &c.  „        o 

321  ^Awdl  ir  llwynog  am  ladd  pavn  y  bardd       113. 

Madyn  Iwynogyn  agos  }  ledrad     ....  p 

dydd  a  feidr  dy  wddf  vadyu  Rys  goch  or  yri 

326  O  lias  y  cilhart  celvydd  ymlyniad  &c.  q 

b.  lladron  Eleirnion  el  arnoch  (y  varn  &c.       J.  goch  y  pwyt  r 

c.  Y  Gwr  a  laddodd  y  gwas  ar  herwr  &c.  dd  nanmor   s 

327  Oredu  ddydwyf  cred  ddidwyll     ....  t 
na  dim  yn  hebddaw  nid  oes       ll-t     Gr.llwyd  dd  ap  Ein: 

328  Edward  ap  Edward  gward  gwyr     ...  u 
yno  doi  yn  y  diwedd/                                                 Jolo  Goch 


"  Pages  308-18  are  in  throe  different  hands. 

f  This  Awdl  is  in  a  hand  resembling   W.  Kynwal's   and  annotated   by  Thos. 
#Viliems. 


516  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   77. 

329  Ai  dydy  varf  a  darfodd  ....  a 
m  dwr  gwres  y  daw  or  gwraidd                             ^olo  Goch 

330  f  Jeu:  ap  ll'n  :  Y  dewr  ai  wallt  wedy  r  wau     ....  b 

eithi-  i  mi  athi-o  ym  wyd  /  ?  Jolo  Goch 

332  J  Gr:  llwyl  ap  Elisae :  Arvau  ddoe  av  vedd  Owain  ....  c 
ederyn  llwch  oedran  Hew  Tudur  Alet 

335       Dvw  a  roes  llwyn  dros  y  llaill     ....  d 

cyw  Owain  Glyn  can  y  gloch  „         ,, 

337  Mar:  Otv:  ap  Meuric :  Arvae  diiw  ar  vodeon    ....  e 

derbyn  bydd  dewr  bonheddic  /  „         „ 

339  Croes  Ostoalld  :  Af  ir  vaendref  ruveindraul    ....  / 

oi  chadw  y  gyd    iechyd  ac  oes  „         „ 

342  jf  Tudvr  llioyd  o  Jal :  Af  ir  ty  vy  th  ar  vort  vawr  ....  g 
canwyll  y  wavii  canllaw  ^al  "  122  „         „ 

344  M.  a  D.  y  mao  ai  dwg  ....  h 
ym  mis  ^fonor  tymhor  teg 

oi  bodd  e  ganodd  y  gog  Anon 

345  Mar:  Rob:  pulsion  :  Duvv  orvchaf  edryclied     ....  i 

del  ei  mab  rhwng  dwylo  Mair  123  Tcdur  Aled 

347   C.  i  Sion  aer  Conwy  i  erchi  tarw  dros  Jeu.  llwyd  ap  dd. 

Ysda  walch  onest  ei  wyr     ....  h 

rhodded  a  gofynned  varcb     124  ,,         „ 

349  Dau  vilgi :  Anoethaf  dim  a  wnevthvm     ....  / 

eb  ladd  lleidr  bleiddiau  llwydion/  Bedo  phylipp 

351    Trueni :  Gwae  a  vwriodd  gof  oerwas     ....  m 

ith  wlad  dvw  itb  weled  ti  Jeuan  brydydd  hir 

353       Arwydd  pellonigrwydd  parch     ....  n 

rhoed  yntav  i  minau'r  march  Jolo  Goch 

3^4:  J  ofyn  Spectalae  :  Myvyrio  bvm  i  vwrwr  byd  ....  o 
ir  gotel  He  mae'r  Gutto  /    128  fin  ap  Gnttyn 

356  Madws  yt  grymau  gael  medi  (yd  gwern)  &c.      Tudur  Aled  p 
b.       y  G  winau  a  roed  ar  dduw  gwener  (Gwyl)  &c.         „         „     <j 

357  Yr  aradr :  Y  drindod  an  cyfodes     ....  r 

Croes  diiw  gwynn  kroesed  y  gw$>r    129       L.  Glynii  Cothi 

359       Teyrn  gwyr  ystrad  Towi     ....  s 

o  gwn  ne  feircb  genyfi  Bedo  Phylip  hach 

3G1    Ypentanae:  Y  meibion  yn  i  mebyd     ....  t 

ir  meibion  rhwyddion  ai  rhoes  ILn  ap  Gitttyn 

364  Dychan  G.'r  Glynn:  darogan  vydd  a  ganwyf  ....  u 
gwrdd  vydd  ag  aur  iddo  vo  Hot  ap  dd  ap  Jeu.  ap  E. 

367  Atteb  :  Ewch  yn  iach  ni  chwenychaf    ....  v 

reso  He  ni  chaffo  chwaith  Guttor  Glynn 

369  J  hari  ddv :  He  nid  da  lliw  onid  dv  .     .     .     .                       w 

Angel  dv  yngwlad  Euas  „           „ 

372       Y  mae  ncithior  y  fory     ....  x 

y  g^^yn  mod  vn  gwayiiiwn  mwy  /  2'udur  penllynn 

374   Moliant  Howel  ap  Siancyn  o  Doivyn 

Hovel  o  gwnsel  gwinsor  ...  y 

Howel  blav  havl  Bowys  „  „  * 


POETBY   BY   VAHIOUS  AUTHORS.  517 

376  Tri  gorwydd  ers  blwyddyn     ....  a 
.dyro.eto  ym  droterth                                     Tudur penllynn 

377  Elis  vn  a  ddewisir     ....  h 
Elis  y  tir  ar  plas  teg         138                           „             „ 

379      Elis  o  ddyffryn  Alvn     ....  c 

ir  gwr  coch  nag  ir  wraig  hen     119*       Jeuan  hrydydd  Mr 

382       Predur  wedd  priod  ar  wi^  ....  d 

bwyth  ddwywaith  y  bitheuad  feu.  ap  ttn  vijchan 

384  C.  i  dd.  lloyd  ttn  ap  gr.  i  ofyn  dav  genav  milgi  gwnion. 

Davydd  yw'n  awenydd  ni     .     .     .     .  e 

cymer  ddav  gvvrser  am  gwn  Gtm  ap  leuan  hen 

386  Mar:  Jthel  Hael :  Eres  y  torres  terra     ....  / 

Nog  ^thel  wr  vwchel  iach  jfolo  Goch 

391  C,   llosgyrnoc :  Y  mae  gorofiE  em  a  garaf     ....  g 

yn  vchaf  haint  na  chaf  honn  Dd.  ap  Edmiond 

392  Owdl  gywydd  i  Rys  Wynn  ttn  ap   Tudur 

llawenaf  lie  o  wynedd    ....  A 

byw  vilwr  eb  ovalon  „  „ 

394       ^  santesae,  oes  vii  tasae     ....  i 

oni  ddel  yu  wynn  o  ddv  „  ,, 

396       Pwy  oil  a  gawn  pell  y  gyd     ...  /( 

a  roe  ddwydorth  vrddedig  John  Ceri 

399       Pani  i  lienwir  pvm  heinioes     ....  I 

wy  th  oed  yrhain  ith  iad  Rhys  Tudr  A  led 

401       Vchel  mab  madog  vychan     ....  m 

Caer  dro  a  <;hymro  'n  i  chael.  Hoi  Rinallt 

404       Budreddleidr  val  neidr  y  nos     ....  « 

Ymaith  o  uef  afti  waith  nos     129  deio  ap  Jeuan  dv 

At  least  4  leaves  have  been  torn  out  between  pp.  406  and  407,  containing  Cijwydd 
Siancyn  ap  mred.  ap  Uhes  dv  ag  e'n  garcharor  [130]  by  Deio  ap  Jeuan  dv ;  Odl 
Vyvan'vy  vechan  0  ddinas  Bran  [131]  by  ll'nap  Einion;  odl  Uhes  ap  ll'n  ap 
Cadwgan  [132]  by  Ud.  nanmor ;  3.dA  the  first  part  of  Cywyddy  Ceiliog  [133]  the 
first  existing  line  of  which  is  : — 

407  II  llawn  lliw  kwrel  angel  wedd     ....  o 
desgant  holl  baradwys  gerdd                                hvw  Arwystl 

408  Och  vair  deg  och  veirw  digeirdd     ....  p 
gwirionedd  nog  avr  yna     134                 Gr:  ap  Grono  Gethin 

410  Moliant  Reinalld   Gruff,  ap  Bleddyn 

Nos  da  Hew  onest  llawen     ....  q 

ef  a  vyth  vwyvwy   weithian  Hot  Cilan 

413  Mar:  Dd.  TLwyd  Abcrtanad  a  Reinalld  Gr.  ap  Bleddyn 

Deuwr  hwnt  val  bb  dav  Rhos     ....  r 

Yn  i  vaddev  nef  vddyn  Jeu:  ap  Dudr  penllynn 

415  Mar:  Angharad  v'ch  dd.  Jeu:  ap  Einion,  gw:  TV. 
ap  Gr.  ap  Rob.  o  Gwchillan 
Tair  gawr  a  wnai  r  Uawr  yn  llwch     ....  .? 

y  sy  nghor  f  esv  'ngharad  Lewis  Mon 


*  The  numbering  of  the  poems  went  wrong  here — 119  should  have  been  139.     In 
the  table  of  contents  the  numbering  answers  to  that  in  the  text. 


518  PENIARTH    MANUSCRIPT   77. 

417       Y  gwr  ar  Uyvr  geirwir  Uwyd  |  o  lynn  nedd     ....      a 
as;  o  chaf  gan  vab  davydd  .  .  .  |  E  grial    .     .     ,     , 
degan  avr  ym  dwg  i  nef  Jeuan  dv'r  bilwc 

419  Marwnad  Syr  Rhes  ap  Thomas 

Mae  rhyw  odwrf  ymhrydain     ....  h 

aros  yr  ^arll  wyr  Syr  rys  /  Lewis  Morganwc 

422  Hari  vii :  Duw  dodes  ffbrtvn  do  doded  (hirhoedl)  ...  c 

dewr  a  phert  draw  ywr  iFortvn  L.  Glynn  Cothi 

427  Marwnad  Arthur  vap  y  brenhin  Hari  vii 

ILewod  eb  orvod  dan  vn  baich  /  oedd  ddoe     ....        d 
brwydr  llewod  briwder  llowiawdr  Rhes  Nanmor 

431  C.  i  wallt  merch  a  elwir  Ystordyn  medd-dod 

Doe  gwelwn  carwn  bei  caid     ....  e 

da  i  trig  avr  ar  befrvrig  bvn       feu.  ap  Rydd:  ap  f.  llwyd 

432  O  dduw  y  rhawg  a  ddaw  Rhys  [ap  Jeu.  fln]  ...  / 
a  cliwery  Rhys  ni  char  hwn  /          Jeu.  ap  Tudr  penllynn 

435  Cywydd  Cymod  Matthias  Cradoc 

Pwy  wna  sir  ar  dir  Caer  dyf    ....  g 

velly  dduw  rhag  vy  lladd  i  Jer:  vynglwyd 

437       Damvnais  y  ffordd  rhag  dim  anwyd  I  ax  I     ...     .  h 

o  ddawn  im  enaid  a  ddamvnai.s     145  L.  Glynn  Cothi 

439       Yn  ieuanc  bvm  vlaeneiiwr    ....  i 

i  werthv  cerdd  o  iwrthvn    145  Gutto'r  Glynn 

441    Yr  Ellyllon:  Val  yr  oeddwn  gwyddwn  gvr     ....  h 

cefn  gweilgi  cafnav  gwaelgoed    146  Jthel  ddv 

444       Mae  nghwyn  am  vorwyn  yn  vwy  / 

110  math  hen  Ab  Mathonwy    .... 
rhaw  bal  a  wna  y  rhyw  benn  /  Lewis  Mon 

446       Archwn  i  Vair  a  bair  byd    ,     .     f    .  m 

cawn  nef  oil  canwn  i  Vair  folo  Goch 

448       T  verch  a  gerais  yn  vaith     ....  n 

teg  oedd  peed  taeog  iddi    149  llowdhen 

450       GlJae'r  g^yann  dan  oedran  nyd  edrych  (ny  chTfardh)  &c.    o 

Gutto'r  Glynn 


MS.  78  =  Hen.  247.  Poetkt.  Paper ;  8i  x  5|  inches ;  pages 
15-186*  imperfect  at  beginning  and  end;  in  several  hands— 
a  =  pp'  15-42,  59-61,  dated  1573;  0  =  pp.  4.S-47,  53-58,  autograph  of 
Simwnt  Vychan  ;  c  =  61-80,93-94,  written  before  1584  ;  d  =  94-186, 
rather  like  c  in  style  and  of  much  the  same  date  ;  e  =  81-92,  and/ 
=  49-52,  both  written  circa  1580  ;  stained  in  parts  and  slightly  injured 
at  the  back ;  in  a  case. 

15  Y  gwyr  ai  tw  dan  gayrod  tvr    (1. 73)     ...      .  p 
Devddengoes  kynn  dydd  angav.  -ISJS.     Rrys  ap  Eingonn 

16  Tvfarnwr  wyd  wr  lie  i  taria  dy union     ....  q 
Tirion  ddyn  duw  ai  tro  yn  dda  15'^3.     Dauidd  Beintiwr 

18       Gweddelyn  fvdrvnn  fwydrefr     ....  r 

ys  faw  diawl  aswfv  diaith  }olo  goch 


POETRY   BY   VARIOUS   ACTHORS. 


519 


fthel  ap  Rhys 

Gr:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rhys 

Dd:  beintiwr 

Gvtvn  Owain 

Tudvr  penllyn 


d 


f 


9 


22  .    Wrth  weled  kwthwr  twred  kether 
llv  on  bodd  lie  ni  byddwn 

24       Krydwsc  am  orfod  kredv     .     .     . 
Etto  yfed  tiofal 

27       Griiffudd  ywenydd  ^ownwych 
Dilid  y  medd  yn  dlawd  mwy 

30       Yma  yi-ys  ym  ymryson     .... 
syn  fyw  aroddo  nef  yn     V573* 

33       Howel  o  gwnsel  giiwr     .... 

howel  biav  havl  bowys 
36       Y  ddyn  Iwys  baradlwys  liw     .... 

ynghaer  ddail  anghowir  ddyn     7573     Bedo  Phelipp  bach 

38       Y  may  pob  mair  difeiod     .... 

Vn  gwiw  ddoeth  yno  i  gweddair     15~i3*    Dauid  ap  gwilim 

40  Ty  bach  y  kyfrinachav  &C; 
The  above  breaks  off  with  the  twelfth  line,  and  4  folios  are  apparently 

missing  here,  being  the  second  halves  of  folios  1-4. 

41  IJTithevr  tarian  ynn  cbwarterog     .... 
jroi  odiaith  ar  Kywedog. 

Eywedog  kayrog  &c. 

43       Y  llys  oraii  :  lliw  Seren 

Ady  wiliam  /  iw   /  dylwyth 
Page  48  is  blank  and  one  leaf  is  missing  between  pp.  48  and  49. 
49       Ijam  dy  dad  roddiad  ben  raith     ....  I 

dadol  yun  dad  haelioni 

Y  maes  grymussa  o  gred     .     .     .     ■ 
dvw  eilwaith  ai  dialo 

Y  Serenn  o  evenni     .... 
y  dewisswn  dywyssawc 

Y  grog  i  bob  dym  o  gred     .     .     . 
a  rhvgain  ith  anrregynn 

y  brytwn  ffydd  kan  ddydd  ded     . 
sseinior  or  vrddas  hynaf 

Oedd  ddifai  erioed  adda  fras     .     . 
end  ir  glanaf  nod  avr  gleiniog 

evraid  walch  difalch  dyfiad  peredyr 
ath  edy  deirnef  ath  did  evraid 

Y  blaidd  Eiidd  anvfvdd  dyn  ofer  geiddiw  &c.     1S§/f  Anon,    s 

ban  fo  y  lloer  ar  wyrain  a  gwlad  ar  ddigrain  &c.  t 

(oied  ner  mil  haner  hinnod  a  deg  oyth     .... 

dan  bren  kryngras  a  fase  len.     15^0  Rohyn  ddy)     " 

kan  nos  daed  bvrwaed  barwn  brig  ynys  ....             v 

ar  bain  ar  iesv  ai  Ron  hir  oysog  Wiliam  llyn 

beth  yna  o  bwyth  enyd|     ....  w 

bor  flfriw  am  waed  berffro  ymon  lewis  menai 


53 
56 
59 
61 

65 

68 

72 

73 

b. 

74 

78 


Owain  Gwynedd 
Simwnt  vachan 

Jeuan  tew 

1 
Lewys  Glynn  Kothi 

))  )>  ?> 

Gvto  or  glynn 

gr:  hiraethog 

ssion  brwynog 

ssimwnt  fychan 


*  This  date  must  refer  to  the  time  of  the  transcript,  though  the  MS.  reads 
'G.  0.  aikant  1573."    "D.  ap  G.  ai  kant  1573  "  &c. 

■f  A  leaf  is  cut  out  between  pp.  78  arid  79  ;  and  at  the  bottom  of  page  80  we  read 
'  my  father  is  an  vnreasonable  man.     Wyllym  Uoyd  " 


520 


PENIARTH   MANUSCEIPT   78. 


85 


88 


ap  R. 


98 


102 


106 


110 


113 


117 


120 


123 


128 


131 


135 


138 


tvdvr  penllyn 


howel  Mian 


ll'n  goch  ah  meirig  hen 


tvdvr  aled 


Ni  tUlel  i  gorf  ar  elawr     .... 

A  (klaw  yn  wftith  i  ddin  a  woii[*?c]  ddgorlach 

i  lleiaii   hardd  yw  llyn   (?)hon     .     . 

fraid  ffwin  difrid  fenaid  ierwerddfyngloid 

Gwr  wyf  nid  Raid  gravyn     .... 

kydois  a  hi  gida  saint  howell  ap  dd.  av  feu 

93  Henffych     well     wenwededig     fam     dduw      brenhines 
nefoydd  &c. 

b.  O  arglwyddes  y  gogoniant,  o  freahines  y  Uywenydd  &c 

94  Enaid  christ,  santeiddia  fi,  GorfE  christ  kadw  fi  &c. 

b.       gwrda  gwych  llewych  llawir  sydd 
tal  glin  gronwy  gethin  goeth 

y  ddevgar  fonyddigion     .... 
yr  hain  fal  i  by  r  hynaif 

Heiniar  nodedig  hvwnwyf     . 
devddyn  uabwy  hyn  na  hwynt 

Pwy  sy  ben  yn  pasio  byd     .     . 
dan  bwyth  devnaw  o  bethav 

meiddin  wyllt  am  rriw  ddyn  wy 
ai  chael  o  fodd  i  chalon 

kan  nos  daed  kynes  dadail     .     . 
wyth  goed  a  dvw  ith  gadw  di 

Y  karw  ifank  aeirir     .... 
oni  ddel  owain  ddylwyd 

Myredydd  llowydd  y  llyn     .     . 
ar  dygorfF  aro  dvw  gwyn 

Myddylio  iddwv  mav  ddolvr     . 
ath  10  tra  fynych  ath  rig 

Mae  r  henwyr  ai  meirw  r  heini 
tri  ag  vn  trwy  wiw  genad 

y  gwyr  i  darfyn  vnaid     .     .     . 
ach  bodd  vwr  ddwyrodd  eraill 
fal  ir  ovddwn  gwyddwn  gvr 
kcfn  gweilgi  kafne  gwavl  goed 
Mae  ynghwyn  am  forwyn  fwy 
Kaw  bal  awna  ym  Eyw  ben 

140  llyma  araith  jfolo  goch  nid  amgen :  Koweth  rrvawii  befr  ap 
drochach  wledig  oedd  wynedd  gynt  a  choweth  byrochwel  ysgytlirog 

oedd  bowys ends :  pa  bryd  a  fydd  hyny     pan  f o  kyn 

ddiweiried  genav  rys  rythvn  agwen  frewi  o  ddioddefodd  ladd  iffen  rag 
bod  iddi  achos  agHT|| 


d 


f 


Jeuan  dyfi 

tvdvr  aled 

tvdvr  penllyn 

Deio  ap  Jeu:  dv 

.     .  ti 

Kynfrig  ap  dd:  goch 

gyto  or  glyn 

howel  Mian 

Jthel  ddv 

lewis  mon 


147  llys  dig  ddielwig  ddiliw     .... 

o  ddaith  yn  hop  pren  evddaw  [«c]  Dd.  ap  gwilim 

148  Y  don  ewynlon  wenlas     .... 

nawdd  dvw  amair  vn  dvdd  mwy  gryffydd  gryg 

151       kydbwy  gwas  kyweithas  koeth     .... 

treffwyth  dysyfiad  ryffydd  gyttor  glyn 

157       damwain  blin  vwr  byd  yma     .... 

ai  rroi  ar  iarll  benfro  ir  wy  Deio  ap  Jeu.  dv 


fHE   POETRY   OP  MORGAN   ELVEL.  521 

16]       y  gwr  ar  war  y  gai-eg     ....  a 

nid  y  pab  onid  mab  mair  ffyto  or  glyn 

165       Mi  af  draw  myned  ir  wy     ....  b 

einioes  fawr  yn  vnys  fou  rys  goch  glyn  dyjrdioy 

169       Mae  heddiw  yiu  wahoddion     ....  c 

main  ai  gwyrth  mon  ai  gorthir  yytor  glyn 

172       y  mae  hiraeth  im  hoiri     ....  d 

ado  hwn  wedi  hyny  Rys  goch  glyn  dyfrdwy 

176       y  keirw  mawr  i  kair  i  uiedd     ....  e 

er  deigir  mair  deg  ar  i  mab  Tvdvr  alcd 

183       klowais  doe  im  kylysd  deav     ....  / 

gweddw  iawn  gwae  ddwy  wynedd  (=1. 56)  *  «  #  *  * 


MS.  79  =  Hen.  219.  PoETBlf  mobtly  by  Moegah  Elvel.  Papci' ; 
8x6  inchfis  ;  126  pages  (and  three  fragments),  stained  and  imperfect  • 
second  half  of  the  xvith  century  and  in  several  hands;  the  compositions 
01  Morgan  Elvcl  accm  to  be  from  one  pen  but  written  at  different 
times ;  the  other  compositions  have  been  written  on  leiivcs  originally 
left  blank  or  on  folios  added  later  to  this  manuscript ;  partly  sewn  and 
partly  loose  ;  in  a  case. 
Liber  Jolimmis  lewis  (p.  1), 

1       II  gwyr  gwr  bray  pyr  gawr  a  brig     ....  ^ 

i  lewyss  hael  ....  kyw  .  .  jcuan  ffylip     .... 

o  ryss  ap  rrikart  \  rann     .... 

ir  gwr  vyth  ar  wraig  a  vo  Morgan  elvel 

4       kwynwn  wr  kawu  yn  airad  h 

dwyn  gwatgyn  .  .  .  Hew  ssion  ap  lewyss  hael     .... 
nwyfwedd  rrwyssg  nefoedd  i  rrain  Morgan  elvcl 

7       ivor  hael  vy  wr  hylwydd  * 

a  ssion  yw  r  hael  ssy  n  wr  rrhwydd     .... 
ar  gwesst  ar  vil  ar  gosst  day  vydd* 

10*     dwyn  tomass  gwiw  rass  gwaei  rann  ir  frayder  It 

aer  veredydd  vychan     .... 
dcwrwycli  oer  da  i  chiciorydd. 

13       Y  Hew  enwog  llywenwych     ....  t 

ifan  or  l.erllan  arirbcr     .... 
fel  pib  organ  pob  ergid  ||  — end  lost,  a  leaf  cul  out. 

15       II  gwae  lyndain  goelvain  ag  elvel  i  g[yd]  wt 

gwedy  y  masstr  powel    .... 
gan  droi  y  ganad  gwae  ni  |  drygywydd  Morgan  elvel 

19       Diiw  a  oyres  daiarcn     ....  h 

Marw  sion  .  .  .  am  morgan  .  .  .  aberhodni     .    .    . 
ni  bon  hiaith  hebddyn  hwylhav  Trefnant 

23       dyn  gwrol  wrth  y  voli  o 

dwyn  ioan  wych  doi  n  wae  ni     .     .     .     . 

*  Whether  or  not  this  is  the  last  lino  it  is  difficult  to  say.  There  is  spiice  foi-  two 
lines  more  at  the  tottom  of  page  9  and  the  top  half  of  page  10  is  left  blank. 
Evidently  the  beginuiug  of  the  next  piece  is  wanting.  Both  the  eompo^itions  arc 
anonymous. 

y  98430,  P 


522  PEKIAMH  MANUSCKIPT  fd. 

dwyn  mab  dafydd  .  ,  wyr  ioan  .  .  amhorgan     .... 

ynghor  llan  gamarch  ynghydd     .... 

i  drwm  nawnef  draw  n  enwog  Morgan  ehel 

25       Marwolaeth  mawr  wae  viloedd     ....  a 

rrissiart  ssion  rroess  air  hyd  ssieb  .  .  iach  ffelpod   .... 

gwae  hil  y  boeff  gwiw  bael  bytb  || 
27       II  troes  duw  arwydd  trist  orig    ....  j 

dwyn  ifan  winllan  wenllys     .... 

ae  ae[r]  ai  vab  yw  air  fo  (1.  59)  | 
31       Och  vair  am  wychaf  wrol     ....  c 

dwyn  dd  .  .  .  o  rys  ap  gwilym  .  .  .  aberedwy  .... 

da  jawn  dyw  ai  enaid  aeth  Morgan  ehel 

35  *  II  ni  cbais  fedd  i  gyfeddach  ^ 
ni  ddaw  ir  wledd  or  bedd  bach     .     .     .     , 

ouwyf  amal  nef  yma  \ 

36  iTodiaiss  ni  rbedaiss  y  byd     ....  g 
ar  grog  a  chynoc  ichwi  .                              tomass  ab  einon 

38       Uin  feyryc  oil  yn  farwaidd  f 

gi-iiffydd  fychan  rwyddlan  wiaidd     .... 
yno  trie  i  benaid  rrydd  tomais  teifi 

41       Mae  dyn  gylan  eb  dynv  i  gyledd     ....  g 

Morgan  .  .  .  gwaed  rran  dd  fychan     .... 
ath  laned  ith  ddilyna  trefynant 

46      Mawr  waer  ssir  mor'oer  y w  r  son  ....  h 

dwyn  tomas  .  .  .  graff  wayw  joyan  grufiydd     .... 
na  fydd  fyth  nef  iddo  fo  Morgan  tlfel 

50      Y  gaer  vawr  y  garaf  i     .     .     .     .  i 

plas  rrisiart  .  .  .  [?  Hafart  0  liergest]     .... 
dawn  byd  yw  dy  enw  bedydd.  ifan  ap  hyw 

53       Krwys  dair  hanck  kroia  diiw  av  ben     ....  h 

o  barlwr  y  barlwr  barch  ||  end  lost. 
65       Af  i  h'nwent  feilienydd     ....  / 

morgan  .  .  .  ap  dd,  fychan  .  .  wyr  forys    .... 
e  bair  duw  himpe  ar  dy  had  Htiw  arwgsdl 

68      pwyi"  glain  doeth  pyr  glan  dethol    ....  m 

Rrosser  .  .  .  Hew  morgan  ...  hil  ^oian     .... 
gwraig  dyfay  pieffrey  sion. 

59  penn  yssydd  dai  wydd  di  wael  yganmol     ....  « 
kaid  jawn  wraidd  kydewenn  rann. 

60  Milwyr  kad  waewyr  kydewenn  wr  mawr  o 

wyr  morys  ap  owen  &c. 

61  t*^'  roddai  ddifai  ddwy  fyw     ....  n 
ywr  brevog  tew  nar  brig  teg    .... 

amenn  ?  trig  ymin  ykor  (p.  49)  Anon. 

GS       grvffydd  nr  iFawy[dd]  yn  ffonn  g 

gwr  ar  llethr  ger  llaw  ieionn     ....  j  ieithon 

naw  gradd  yno  gorweddych.  bedo  brwynllys 

•  The  above  is  written  upside  down  on  page  35  and  seems  to  want  beginning  and 
end. 

t  This  Cywydd  is  written  upside  down  on  pp,  61-2,  and  seems  to  be  continued  on 
those  portions  of  pp.  57,  52,  49  which  were  originally  left  blank. 


The  poetey  of  morgan  elvel.  623 

66  This  page  is  much  stained ;  it  onoe  formed  the  final  page. 

67       !1  diamay  vod  yma  vedd  a 

llywelyn  mae  Uei  wylo  |  gwatgyu     ,     .     .     . 
liael  dewr  boi  howel  dair  oess  Morgan  elvel 

71       Pwy  ssydd  jn  boynydd  yn  benn     ....  b 

davydd  .  .  .  gwiwlew  ieuan  ap  gwilym     .... 
a  bort  hir  val  j   by  r  tad   (followed  by  a  blank  page — 73.) 

74      Och  am  gapten  a  ffenaeth  e 

o  vlaen  osst  i  fwlen  aeth     .... 
nwyf  oer  bid  nef  jr  bedo  [goch].  Morgan  elvel. 

79      am  -wychwalch  \  mae  ychod     .     ,     ,     ,  d 

ain  ssion  .  ,  .  amhorys  y  mae  hiraeth     .... 
dewis  wraidd  dwyces  j  ryas  ,,  „ 

83  Owdl :  pwy  r  penaetb  ior  firaeth  aur  flfriw  wr  kadarn     .     .  e 
ssiankin  wrol  a  volwnn  ,  ,  mab  gwatgin     .... 
a  gaid  hael  i  gyd  j  honn. 
98  Memoranda  referring  (1)  to  Adam  ap  ^euan  of  lloyne,  Kadnor  ;  (2)  to 
Thomas  ap  Jeuan  and  Elen  v5   William ;  (3)  to  Gwilim  gr:  of  llanavanvawr; 
Brecon. 

90      Y  gwr  osstil  gorei  sstad     ....  / 

ycbi  ssiamass  .  .  ap  rryss  ,  .  ap  dd  .  .  vycbali  .  .  . 
ichwi  dairoess  ywch  dewrion  Morgan  elvel. 

93       Maea  jraidd  agwrdd  maen  wraidd  ddigon     ....         g 
ieuan  .  .  .  ap  ffylib  amrredydd     .... 
da  irwych  hael  dewr  a  cliwyrn  „  „ 

100  Pwyr  hylew  dewr  pyr  hael  doeth     ....  h 
dewr  rrwydd  o  vyellt  .  .  .  ssion  .  .  Hn  goch     .... 
hael  gwiw  aurgawr  hil  gwrgan  ||  * 

101  Diiw  oeres  gwlad  dyraw  sy  glaf    ....  i 
Marw  sioii  .  .  morgan     .... 

daioni  iiw  da  venaid  tref  nant 

105  II  meisstrol  yw  yn  mwsstroi  wlad     ....  k 
glann  kothi  glain  l^ai  wytboess     .... 

koffaed  oi  hap  kaffed  houn  Morgan  elvel 

106  Pwy  n  wr  ssad  penn  ar  y  ssydd  I 
pwy  ond  tomass  (aer  gtm  ap  ^cu:  ap  gr:  ap  rrys)   .  .  . 
arwy  aiir  rrydd  ar  warr  hwn                            Morgan  elvel. 

109       piayr  gwyr  awdyr  odwydd  payn  twymwaew  m 

pynt  tomass  ap  davydd     .... 

twymai  ssiass  tomass  ai  wyr  Morgan  elvel. 

113       Mae  eryr  glew  mawr  ywr  glod  n 

euwir  hwn  .  .  .  (ssion  ap  kydwgan)     .... 

vilwr  od   j   voli  rwyf  (1.  44)  ||  rest  of  the  page  cut  off. 
117       II  *  #  *  dyw  gwyn  oer  trisst  gwae  ni     .     .     .     .  o 

o  ddaeary  .  .  Hn  .  .  .  ap  Morgan     .... 

ddewiss  gwaed  ssy  ddyssgedig     (1.  44)  || 
119       II  ach  voi'gan  dross  wythran  ssel     ....  p 

llew  dilyss  hael  llei  del  ssion 

dewr  dinag  j  daw  r  dynion     .... 

yn  y  tefyrn  od  hefyd 

*  Nearly  half-  the  page  left  blank. 

P  2 


524  PE>flAR'l'H   MANUSCRIPTS  79-8d. 

da  lew  gwrdd  ve  dal  j  gyd     .... 
kyfiou  glew  dewr  kefn  gwlad  wych       (1.44)  || 

,121       II  hilioedJ  mawr  raddoedd  mwy  wraiddiay     ,     .     ,     ,  a 

or  eiase  a  ddayth  oer  ]  sswydd  ioithon     .... 
vyth  ieryv  pyrffad  vath  wr  ar  persson.  Morgan  elvel. 

123       Mae  yn  bray  Ian  mwyn  brelad     ....  b 

maess  mynyss  lie  maess  monaeth 
ssi/r  water  enwer  jawnwych 
ep  hael  well  ap  bo'cl  wych     .... 
j  doygain  pwyth  digon  pyr 

Lett  uafiuisbed  apparently — the  rest  of  the  page  (126)  is  partly  scribbled  over  iu 
later  hands.  There  are  also  three  fragments  belonging  to  some  other  MS.  The 
larger  of  these  begins  "  Neawdr  wyf  yn  d  drafael  at  rol  o  fyd  trwy  el  fael "  and 
ends :  "  Eys  vawr  di  dra  •  ays  yw  fo."  || 


MS.  80  =  Hen.  248,  PoflTRt.  Paper;  8|  xC  inches;  198  pages 
and  a  fly-leaf  ia  Latin  ;  written  circa  1550-80  iu  three  diflercnt  hands — 
{a)  pp.  1-93  (c/.  MostynMS.  Ill);  {b)  93-124;  and  (c)  125-98;  the 
top  right-hand  corners  are  injured  by  rats  and  some  folios  wanting;  in 
a  ease. 

On  the  35th  July  1649  Ludovicus  Jones  wrote  on  page  94  ;  "  fy  llyfr  oedd  gyda 
Jo"  ap  hngh  a])  Ho""     (p.  1). 

1       dawns  o  bawls  doe  /  n  /  ysbeiliwyd     ....  c 

larll  oi  fab  arall  a  lb  gvttor  ghjnn 

5  Mar:  abad  Ri/s  0  gayo  :  dyn  wyf  doe  a  anafwyd    ...        d 
yno  fyth  a  wnaf  weithian  GvUo  r  ghjnn 

8  Man  gwladi/vs  v.  dd:  gam:  y  seren  o  yfent     ....  e 

y  dewisswn  dywyssawo  Imoys  ghjnn  KolUi 

1 1  Mar:  Tho:  Salbri  ap  Jlari  o  laweni. 

Trist  ir  beirdd  y  troes  diiw  /  r  /  byd     ....  / 

ty  dvw  sydd  yw  tad  a  sion  .     1/f90.        Gvlvn  owain 

Maricnadeu  Syr  Rys  ap  Tomas 
14       Mae  Eyw  odwrf  ymrydain     ....  ff 

arcs  yr  jarll  wyr  syr  Eys  Icwijs  morgannwc 

19       Ymlwyddyn  yr  ymladdwyr     ....  A 

y  dawr  cdn  dewr  i  adwedd  Dd:  llwgd  ap  IVn  ap  gr: 

Marwnadeu   Gwilim  ap  Grvffydd  o  ben  mijnijdd 
23       Ko  diiw  galonn  digllonnbwyll     ....  i 

wrth  fyngwawr  diiw  mawr  amen  Gwilim  ap  se/Hi/n 

28       Kefais  am  oerdrais  marwdravl     ....  k 

gida  gras  duw  ai  gadair  „  „ 

32  Mar:  Omain :  arfav  duw  ar  fodeon     ....  I 

derbynn  hydd  dewr  bonheddic  Tiidr  Aled 

36  Mar:  Tttdur  Aled :  bwriwyd  vnbardd  brad  enbyd  ...      in 
m  wyddem  o  iawn  addysc 
nes  i  ddwyn  eisiav  i  ddysc     .... 
%  wlad  nef  eled  yn  jach  Gr:  ap  feu:  ap  ll'nfacU: 

41  Mar:  Oio:  ap  Mred :  Y  11  v  mawr  ni  allai  mwy     ...  n 

yn  fyw  a  ncf  i  ywain  feu:  gethin  ap  feu:  ap  seissyllt 


POETRY  Br  VABIOUS  AUTHORS.  625 

44       Mar:  Dd;  ap  Howel  o  Nanlievdwy 

briwodd  y  tir  brevddwyd  die     ....  a 

yno  tyf  euaid  davydd  Tiidiir  aled 

48       Mar:  Dd:  llwyd :  Tros  ifal  i  torres  hevlwenn  ....       b 
ger  Haw  duw  gwr  llwyd  o  ^al  „         „ 

52      kwyn  o  I'oec  kanii  orevgwyr  .  .  tudur  llwyd     .     .     .     .     c 
atl,  Ifessv  gwynn  twyssoe  ^al  lexoys  mon 

57       Mar:  sioti  wynn  arglwydd  Powys 

Gwae  wlad  oer  gwilio  derwen     ....  d 

Haw  ddiiw  yngod  Uadd  angav  „        ,, 

G2  Mar:  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt :  Dayar  sy  gav  dros  y  gerdd  .     .  e 

Poetri  /n/  Jaith  an  patrwn  oedd  lewys  mon 

6o      Mae  son  o  gemais  i  art  f 

ymrvdiav  beirdd  marw  Edwart  .  ,  .  frenin    .... 
brenin  nef  biav  /  r  /  enaid  Mred:  ap  Rys 

69  Mar:  sioned  v}  Robert  o  sgdfiog  ne  llan  evrgain — vt  puto 

Ni  welir  tes  o  lawr  tad     ....  g 

Yu  rroi  oes  ynn  ar  i  hoi  Jhon  ap  IIoivcU 

76  Mar:  sion  dd:  ap  Jlhel,  gwr  y  wraig  vchod 

Bwriwyd  derwen  biav  toi'res     ....  h 

dod  ir  gwr  dy  drigaredd  sion  ap  Ilowel 

81  Mar:  Dd:  ap  Jlhel  o  Lan  evrgain 

Y  mae  kof  a  mi  a  kwyn     ....  i 
chwech  y  sydd  cliwechoes  oeddvn              Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 

85   Mar:  Sion  ap  Siamys  ap  Madog  ofaelaior 

Y  dderwen  ddoe  owryd     ....  h 
el  yw  enaid  oleini                                           Giittyn  Ywain 

89  Mar:  Edwart  ap  Dd:  o  drefawr 

llydan  oedd  gastell  Edwart     ....  I 

tevlv  nef  ai  tal  inn  ]fon  GiMo  or  glynn 

94  (Arglwydd  ddaiar  war  Arglwj'dd  yd  8  gwellt     ....  m 
gronun  gjnrhowuun  rhwyd                                               Sion  Bnuynoc) 

Marionaden  Thomas  Salbri  hen 

95  Akw  tovred  katerwen     ....  n 
Egor  y  nef  inn  gwr  ni                                          lewys  mon 

98       Mi  a  wnn  Gwyn  am  vn  Gwr     .     ,     .     .  o 

na  fv  ddim  i  nef  y  ddaeth  Tvdvr  ulcd 

102       Para  gwymp  i  wr  y  god     ....  p 

Gwaed  haels  a  gatwo  i  wely  lewys  mon 

107  Mar:  Rys  Nanmor:  /  O  5fesv  byth  Eisiav  bardd     ...  q 

neunbren  pob  awen  pe  byw  lewys  mon 

110  Mar:  Wm:  llwyd  o  Landdeinioel  yn  efionydd 

Gob  drvain  kwynwch  driael     ....  r 

mer  lan  mair  el  ai  enaid  TMvr  aled 

115   Mar:  Uob:  Pilstwn:  dvw  orvchaf  Edryched     ....  s 

awn  yw  ofyn  i  nefoedd  Tvdvr  aled 

121  Mar:  T.  Aled:   dyn  ymddifad  beb  dad  wyf     ....  t 

fathro  bv  .  ,  .  .  brawd  llwyd  .  .  .  .  yn  llann  faes 
y  trie  awen  tragywydd  Lewys  mon 


526  [PENIAETH  MANUSCEIPT  80. 

J  25  Mar:  Dd:  vychan  o  linwent  a  Jeuan  o  Lanffiriff, 
dav  wr  a  las  yn  y  maw 
Pwy  sy  drist  powys  drosti     ....  a 

o  dielir  nid  wylaf  %e\mn  devlwyn 

128  3Iar:  lewis  gwynn  cwnstabl  trefesgob 

Mawr  ywn  poen  am  yr  vn  peth     ....  b 

denajd  a  ro  duw  n  ni  drwn  Howel  ap  Syr  mathe 

132  Kannoes  am  [Wm:]  iarll  [pennfro]  i  kwynwn     ....       c 
tragwyddol  i  trig  i  ddo  Howel  ap  Syr  mathe 

13(5  Mar:  Dd:  llwyd :  Mair  hael  am  avr  wehelyth     ...  d 

a  duw  vo  parch  devfab  hwnn  Howel  ap  Syr  mathe 

139  Mar:  sion  kolvnwy  :  Kwynno  wn  pe  kawn  einioes  ...  e 

duw  a  iorvs  kadw  i  wyrion  Howel  ap  Syr  mathe 

142  Mar:  Tho:  ap  Jen:  llwyd:  llid  gwae  fil  lied  gyfeiliorn  ...     / 
trwy  ffyniant  ar  hoU  blant  hwnn        Hotoel  ap  Syr  mathe 

145  Mar:  gruff:  ap  dd:  a  Lan  dyssul 

trwm  yw  mryd  tori  mae  mronn     ....  g 

daioni  duw  yw  euaid  gr:  ap  lloen  am,  hadoc 

150  Moh  Gr:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  sienkyn  ofaelawr 

am  warr  ymars  imae/r  mor     ....  h 

kanoes  foch  gair  ach  kynydd  Wm :  egwad 

152  Mar:  Elen  gioraig  gr:  ap  dd:  o  rysdoc 

Aeth  hiraeth  am  waith  ar  wyi     ....  i 

ag  oes  gan  iesv  yw  gwr  Oio:  ap  lloen  ap  moel 

156  Mar:  dd:  ap  Sion  ap  dd:  o  van  avon 

Troes  adwyth  mal  trais.  hvdol     ....  k 

dai  rinwedd  duw  ar  enaid  Howel  JLoen  amhredydd 

IGU  Mar:  Jevan  llicyd  ap  tomas  ap  Jevan  llioyd 

mair  prvdd  a  fv  ddafvdd  ion     ....  I 

a  wna  duw  enaid  ievan  Hmo  arwystl 

164  Mar:  Risiart  ap  Jevan  o  geri 

0  dduw  pent  rryfedd  i  ddyn     ....  m 

wrth  bwys  i  wyrth  ai  bassiwn  „  „ 

1(58  Mar:  morys  ap  sion  or  llwyn  melyn 

Hiraeth  am  dy  syuhwyredd     ....  n 

Y  bo  /  r  sant  morvs  ab  sion  Howel  siordival 

171  Mar:  Rys  vy;  mab  ?norgan  ap  mredydd 

Braint  oergrwybr  brwnt  daiargryd     ....  o 

0  dal  gan  dduw  yw  dylwyth  Howel  ap  syrr  mathe 
174  Mar:  Lewis  o  Lanwrin :  Doeth  tri  arwydd  vn  flwyddyn  .  .      p 

lewis  yn  wr  o  lys  nef  Deio  ap  ievan  dit 

Here  some  leaves  have  been  torn  out. 
179       II  dyn  wyf  ni  chais  bod  yn  wych     ....  q 

dros  gof  be  bae  deiroes  gwyr  deio 

182      pwl  yw  kerdd  pob  overddyn     ....  r 

dos  nef  dewis  vi  yw  „ 

Many  lines  in  tlie  last  poem  contain  only  one  or  two  words,  being  evidently  copied 
from  an  impi;iTect  or  illegible  MS. 

1 87  Mar:  Watkin  ap  Roesser  vychan 

1  mae  vtkyrn  am  watkynu     ....  s 
i  werth  ef  o  wyr  a  thir                            Hotoel  Swrdwal 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  527 

193       Y  dydd  i  llvniwyd  addaf    ....  ct 

kwplaf  er  addaf  rydderch       Gr:  ap  dd:  llioyd  ap  Einion 

197       Y  blaened  eb  olovni     ....  h 

*  #  tlawd  0  genedl  hon||         [1  30]— imperfect  and  cud  wan'.ing, 


MS.  81  =Hen.  254.  Poetry.  Paper;  8^x6  inches;  178  pa^es^ 
wanting  beginning  and  end,  and  imperfect  in  many  places;  written 
mostly  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  xvith  century ;  sewn  ;  in  a  case. 

The  name  of  "  syr  Jeuan  dd:  morgan  Uan  favlrys  kil  y  kwm  "  occurs  ou  p.  114. 

1       syr  howcl  [ap  dd:  ap  einon]  syn  Ryfelv  c 

sa  lie  ddoedd  kais  fwyall  ddv     .... 

*****     ytv  #**##« 

5  \_Mar:  Johi]  gwyn  ap  elissav  ap  Wiliam  llwyd 

*  *  *  *  wrylys  byd  krevlou     ....  d 

0  dvw  ssion  wyn  dos  yniach  John  tvdvr 

9       ykylleir  walch  kail  wraidd     ....  e 

ylise  .  .  ap  wiliam  .  .  karw  tradewr  kvvrt  Rywedawg  .  . 
uai  hebil  [sic]  nai  hil  nai  had  gri/ff' hiravthog 

12       pa  wr  sy  vwch  power  saith     ....  / 

gr:  ar  bar  onwydd  bras  [ap  tomas  ap  hot]     .... 
daaw  hy  deva  n  i  hoi  liichart  ap  howell 

16       ar  bena  er  wr  bonedd     ....  g 

ysdyffan  lew  ap  lewis 

ft  fynai  Rodd  [bwkler]  yw  nai  Rys     .... 
Rof  y well  bwyth  golvyth  y  go      dauid  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr: 

19      Da  ar  feirdd  a  dewr  afy  [D.  ab  G.J     .     .  _  .     .  h 

ihevbarth  nida  hebo  Madog  benfras 

23       Mawr  yw  gwan  goel  mvr  gwnalch     ....  i 

och  ni  bv  och  ni  bai  is     ...     , 
grvffvdd  ab  adda  ab  dafvdd 
yng  hor  dolgelle  yngh[vdd]     .... 
dy  bryd  avr  debre  ydyn  #  #  *    ah  gwilym 

25       lir  a  aadwyd  Rhwn  tri  dyn     ....  k 

tiJ|Jav  avr  at  y  dewrionn  Hoivel  Reinallt 

28  This  page  is  blauk  and  one  or  more  leaves  are  missiug  here. 
29       II  nevadd  fawr  newydd  fyrwen     ....  I 

inarged  .  ,  merch  einion  |  wyn  ithel     .... 

da  .  .  .  iflonydd  fyr  dydd  i  doeth 

at  fredydd  arf  derydd  dan 

dvr  bafais  dewr  ab  ifan  || 

30  Memorandum  of  the  number  of  "  hopes  '■  supplied  to  or  received  from 
different  persons. 

31  adda  fras  wylwas  a  elwynn  yn  fardd     ....  tn 
ni  ladd  onyd  bwyd  nei  lynn                             gytto  r  glynn 

32  gwilliad  grym  eurchiad  gorav  marchog  gynt     ....      n 
rrys  grythor  .  .  ,  kai  ffaling  trwyn  keffylog.      tydtir  aled 

34       pa  wrol  ion  pvr  i  wledd  o 

piav  blainio  pobl  wynedd  |  mred'  ab  ^fan     .... 
bavn  y  gwin  yn  ben  gwynedd         tin  ap  y  moel  or  pantri 


528  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   81. 

88        Sf   ii!.  ;ji7«itoM  ;  pwy  a  dvr  gwayw  fal  powdwrgwyllt  ...     a 
tv  tiigwres  tad  Ryowgwi'wydd  tvdvr  aled 

12  /  elisav  ap  Wiliam  o  Jiywedog 

pa  vn  liw  glod  pwyn  rhoi  i  gler     ....  b 

a  hari  a  fyu  liir  fo  i  oes  lewis  ap  edwart 

4G       pwy  r  dewr  ail  paredvr  wyct     ....  c 

drwy  swydd  i  dreisio  liyddod  (1.  44)  || 
After  page  48  five  leaves  have  been  torn  out, 
49       II  ar  gongol  wavthan  ygangen     ....  rf 

ing  ar  hynt  ir  angor  hen  dokdor  John  y  hent 

b.       Filer  idwal  pie  .  r  .  ydwyd     ....  e 

pilstwn  .  .  wyr  Eissiart  ap  Syr  Boesser    .... 
nac  oed  twr  ne  gateri 

53  Mil  yn  gynta  ai  wrantv  poen  rinwedd    ....  / 
i  treir  Hong  y  trowyr  hvn              Mygliw  hrydydd  lloid 

54  y  llywena  /  n  /  hoU  wlad  wynedd     ....  g 
milwr  rrwydd  amal  ywr  hoddion 

Morys  walch  gymry  a  sion     .... 

oed  ymyr  iad  morys  Hoivel  Beinallt 

57  ILyma  mal  y  roir  help  RRag  hanker  ac  hen  fryw  oddy- 
melon  :  kymer  lysse  llywely  ddyrned  a  dyrned  or  wilifray  &c. 

38  Rrag  hlwyf  oddimeivn  o  hwidd  a  dyfig  anadle  inghilch  y 
ffalon :  kymer  alwn  o  freky  di  frag  haydd  &c. 

59       korn  a  gan  krio  yn  gav     ....  h 

erchwch  wyth  bwyth  am  bob  yn  John  brwynog 

61       Meirchion  glann  Jeitiion  wyd  ynydd     ....  i 

a  gwas  a  marchog  /  vegis  meirchion       lewys  y  glyn  cothi 

63       Y  Hew  trwyddyn  gwallt  revddavr     ....  k 

esdyn  oes  hir  bilsdon  sion     .... 
on  olwyth  hen  daleithiav  (1.  48)  || 

65       angen  dwyn  bargeu  dan  berth  rag  angen  &c.  Anon    I 

h.      lisav  wyt  orav  mewn  teir  iaith  bevnydd    ....  m 

hnrdda  son  i  hyrddas  wyd  Jeuan  llavar 

CO       Mawr  fyr  gair  am  y  teirodd[=  menig,  modrwy,  pwrs]  ...» 
ir  gwr  hael  ar  wraig  ai  rhoes  Gytto  or  Glyn  . 

G9       y  grog  i  bob  dvn  o  gred     ....  o 

fal  ange  r  sant  a  flingwyd  left  unfinished  apparently 

70  fo/'  the  coughe—Take  thre  or  fovvre  stickes  of  lieorys  8tc. 

71  Againest  all  maner  of  coughes  SfC. :  Take  brymstono  beaten 
in  poiidr  half  an  ounce  &  put  yt  in  a  newe  laid  cgge  softe  rested 
myngle  &c. 

72  Pymtheg  kant  dcpydant  oyd  ior  dv  ddygiad  p 
dav  ddevgain  tair  rragor 

marwch  tad  rrad  rrywedog  bavn 

cell  or  gwvn  ichwi  /r/  gaynor    .... 

am  i  enioys  ymynedd  1S§3  .  Anon  . 

73  i  sion  am  hadavig  o  vaelawr 

Wylolofys  wyf  fal  afon     ....  q 

a  cliynnydd  ir  wreichionen  Gvto  /  r  /  glynn 


.POETBY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  629 

76      y  gwr  sy  hwy  nag  yvv  r  sir     ,     .     .     .  a 

w™  sion  .  .  a  biav  .  .  gced  ag  yd  gwidi  gada    .... 
ond  aelio  nev  dy  wilim  Jeu:  devlwyn 

78  O  sei'ch  dwg  fanei'ch  lloi  bvdd  fynyd     .     .     ,     .  b 
i  Wiliam  ai  fani  hawdd  fyd     .... 

ir  gavnor  orav  geuyd  Jeuan  tew 

79  Atodlfar:  Elissav  ah  iviliam  llwyd  o  benllyn 

Braich  a  Haw  bylaw  haeledd  a  dorrwyd    ....  c 

o  thorrwyd  oil  i  throed  ai  Haw  Sionffylib 

84  merch  ag  ytifeddes  jffan  ap  howel  ap  mredydd  oedd  wraig  i  ho'l  ap 
dd:apgr:  .  .  .  ap  0.  givyuedd  ....  houn  pioedd  y  llys  yughefu  y  vanu 
ag  yno  i  bv  hi  ai  gwr  yn  aros  . 

b.     ti  ywr  wal  nis  torai  wyr     ....  d 

sion  pilsdwn  .  .  .  ai  sawdwyr  osoded     .     . 
Riw  ddiawl  ei  arliodd  eil  waith        gr:  ap  dd:  ap  howell 

88  Rai  a  fyn  gwlithin  aglaw  ]   eraill  yn  rhwydd  a  fyn  rhew  e 
uid  -wrth  son  dynion  idaw  I  nid  oes  ond  a  fyno  diiw    .... 

vn  arch  ir  wi  /  n  /  i  erchi  |  Diiw  maddef  meie  i  mi  Anon 

89  Tan  awyr  a  dwr  daiar  a  main  &c.  „       f 

h.      Y  Hew  draw  ai  llidio  irwyd     ....  g 

llywelyn  .  .  .  ddv  nid  iacb  ym  ddwyn  dy  wg    .    .    . 
ni  bydd  yn  dvagowydd  gas  .  Jeuan  devlwyn 

92       keisier  traseilier  trysoliaw  y  drws  &c.  Hugh  Penal  h 

b,*      mawr  ddolef  i  maer  ddwywlad  [powys  a  phenllyn]  ...       i 

am  farw  .  .  owaiu  ap  sion  .  .  ap  howel  vyelian  .  .  . 

owain  fry  i  nef  ir  aetb  .  ^570  .  simwnt  vychan 

961     (y  vixes  ar  tess  yn  towsso  Rivel    ....  h 

kadwodd  Elys  .  .  i  dir  draw  rrag  dirwy  drom     .     .     . 
chwsant  fry  ni  chowsont  fram 

b.      teirgwaith  achanwaitl;  iie  cbwaneg  mowrsatbr  ....  / 

Ehiwaedog  .  .  .  .  f o  wlithodd  fil  o  weithiav  R.  K.) 

S9       Och  druan  kwynwch  driael     ....  m 

marw  sieb  seid  moris  ap  sion     .... 
mor  Ian  mair  el  ai  enaid  Tudur  aled 

104       kwyno  auav  kawn  enyd     ....  n 

kvddiwyd  wiliam  llwyd  ynn  Han     .... 
ai  dan  vn  ynn  dwyn  ninav  Jeuan  tew 

109       uid  ar  gyll  nodir  y  gerdd     ....  o 

davydd  llwyd  mab  mredydd     .... 
vn  gwr  a  thi  maen  gwyrthwyd  .  „       „ 

113  A  drinkefor  the  collyche  §'c.     Take  of  the  Rootes  of  fennyll,  of  parseley  &c. 

114  gosawg  riw  avdawg  ywr  Eydain  nawo[.  .J  p 
vn  enaint  owain     .... 

Riwavdog  Ivs  Ewyd  y  gler  Anon 

115  J  ahad  Kcnwy  :  Gidag  vn  a  geidw  gwynedd     ....  q 

merch  deg  pei  kaid  march  yw  dwyu  tvdvr  aled 

117   Wm.  fychan  :  kledd  davar  wynedd  ai  drych     ....  r 

nid  i  lesg  i  deH  ysgwydd    (i.  36)     |1 

*  This  Cywydd  is  continued  on  pp.  97-8. 
f  Page  96  was  left  blank  originally. 


530  PENURTH  MANUSCBIPT  81, 

119  J  Elisav  llwyd  o  Riwedog 

Adeliad  val  idylwn     ....  a 

Rydain  iaer  rrywedawc  Hughe  Penant 

124       ^essv  rhoed  elisav  rhawc     ....  h 

oes  ywch  elisav  a  ]fechyd  Ho' I  ap  svr  Mathay 

127  Sid  hysbys  vod  neithior  yr  eiol  yn  y  plus  yn  riwedny  rliwng  Wiliam  llwyd 
mab  ac  etivedd  Elissav  ap  Wiliam  llwyd  am  morys  ag  Ehsbeth  verch  owain  ap  John 
ap  ho'll  vychan  olwidiarth  ym  howys  achaer  gai  ym  henllvn  ddvw  svt  yr  igeinfed 
dydd  0 fis  hydref  oed  hrist  M  V  a  Iv  [ISSS'].  llymar  goslegiun  a  wnaetjibwyd 
yno  y  dydd  vchod  : 

ysdor  yw  neithior  a  wnaethant  y  rhain     ....  c 

deall  y  ddyn  daw  llwidiant  Anon 

128  Gwawd  i  Ruffydd  hiraethog 

Mae  tesjstyn  vyllyn  vwyall  aniant  gwir     ....  d 

gwibiodd  i  varcli  ir  gobant 

ddoe  ar  naid  i  ddwr  y  nant     ....  lewys  ap 

I'hac  kwilidd  rhai  ai  koiliant  Edwart  alias  meirchion 

129  wyd  ryffydd  yn  brydd  raae  brad  itli  g*in     ....  e 
yw  ddial  gofal  a  gad.     1555     ,                           John  tvdyr 

130  llys  rydd  heddiw  sydd  a  swyddav  yn  hon     ....  / 
llessy  Iwys  llys  elisav*     (*  See  p.  187  above.) 

eglvrvawr  neithiawr  .  .  ,  .  beirddion  a  cherdd  dauav 

ac  vn  ovrig  awen  frav  agwimpiodd 

ni  ddwg  impiav     .... 

lliw  nos  <a  chtill  yn  eisiav  ssitnwnt  vychan 

131  Atteb :  Gvvledd  artLvr  oedd  bvr  o  birion  seigiav  ....  g 

hevrwyd  arnaf  drwyr  deiraion 

anifir  daith  nofior  don     .... 

hwyntav  sy  iawn  tewi  son     ISoS  Gr:  Hiraythog 

133       ttrwy  Jesv  gwyn  trais  a  gad     ....  h 

mal  im  lias  am  Wiliam  llwyd  .  .  Rywedawc     .... 
tir  nef  ir  ttevrn  ifank  Lewis  Daren 

Moliant  Elis  ap  Wiliam  o  Riwedog  (see  pp.  119  &  127  above). 
136       kroessed  enw  mawr  krist  an  medd     ....  i 

gedwch  ben  gida  chwi  byth  huw  arwysdl 

140       Pwy  ng  wynedd  piav  ng  env     ....  h 

yn  hwyr  eisiav  n  hir  oesawc  tomas  givynedd 

143       Heb  wr  agaraf  nifynaf  fed     ....  I 

tomas  glecld  addas  .  .  .  abev  marlais  .  .  carw  emlyn  . 

ddosbarth  bwa  dyhevbarth  o  baid  hebod       gtm  ap  J.  hena 
14(J       Mab  kadyr  kydwaladr  keidw  helvdd  liael     ....  m 

dyred  pan  fynych  kroeso  pan  ddelych 

acb  wedi  i  delych  trafynycli  trig 

trig  yn  bendefig  davydd  ith  lysoedd 

ath  levosawg  kevrydd     .... 

dyglod  aeth  dros  ygwledydd  ssypyn  kyfeiliog 

{=.bleddyn  was  y  hwd  =^  dd  am  hadog  wladaidd) 

149  {gr:  ap  adda  ap  dd:  Och  yddol  goch  addyly  n 

gwyl  barchvs  &c.  ssypyn  kyfeiliog) 

150  Y  gwr  hir  egaer  hari  o 
wythfed  tal  ith  fowyd  ti 

sion  pilsdion  ni  fynwn  fod     .... 

samson  haernarfon  irfawr     .... 

bo  danad  ybyd  vnwaith  Lewis  daron 


POETRY  BY  HUW  AEWYSTL  ETC.  631 

156  Mar:  Elin pilsdwn  "water  wraig  morys  ah  lisav,"  &c.   ^577- 

pa  ddybryd  benyd  bob  vn  awr  wylaw     ....  a 

aletli  bob  hiretli  bob  borav  or  byd 

aoedd  brad  benyd  ddybryd  boynav  lewis  menai 

161  Mar:  syr  sion  pilsdwn  .  1551 

troes  oer  gwyn  teirsir  gwynedd     ....  h 

och  och  am  wr  nich  ewch  mwy  John  hrwynog 

Page  166  is  blank  and  some  leaves  may  be  wanting  here. 

167       !|  Y  wraig  ir  rowiog  araf     ....  c 

ni  werth  i  cheiliog  yn  wir 
ar  yglaw  er  aglowir     .... 
arfer  hauer  i  hynan 
galwr  iar  i  gael  i  ran     .... 
marchog  ieir  mor  wych  ag  ef  Jeuan  dylynior 

170      Meibion  diwarth  i  mebyd  d 

ierwerth  ap  gr:  bvdd  y  byd     ....  gr:  gryg 

dd wylaw  mwu  wyl  i  ddelom  ap  hynfrig  ap  gr:  foel 

173  Mil  a  fFedwar  kant  heb  ddim  mwy  &c.     1 400-1  J^15e  e 

b.  barlech  a  dinbech  bob  dor  yn  kyne  &c.     iJfOS  f 

c.  pan  las  U'n:  Mil  oedd  o.  k.  heb  ddim  llain  adwy  &c.  d.  nanmor  g 

174  Y  gwr  gwrdd  mewn  gair  a  gaf     •     ,     ,     .  h 
Mastr  hari  /  n  /  He  r  triael     « 

a  gwaew  /  n  /  ol  hwn  bagnol  hael     .... 
gvn  hael  hardd  ag  yn  ol  hwn  ||     end  wanting 


MS.  82  =  Hen.  250,  Poetry,  chiefly  the  Works  of  Hum  Arwystl 
and  in  his  autograph*  as  may  be  inferred  from  the  fact  that  most  of 
his  poems  are  written  on  separate  sheets,  which  are  worn  across  the 
middle  of  the  page  in  consequence  of  being  folded  and  carried  in  the 
pocket.  Paper  ;  8|^  x  5|  inches ;  334  pages ;  in  several  hands,  circa 
1540-1580 ;  margins  of  the  latter  part  are  worn,  and  some  slightly 
injured  by  rats  ;  sewn  in  old  parchment  and,in  a  case. 

[Dawns  o  bowls  doe'n  ysbeilwyd]     .... 
1        II  ssyr  isiart  ni  ssyrr  iesv     (i.  ii)     .     .     .     .  i 

iarll  oi  fab  arall  a  fo'j"  gvtor  glynn 

5       II  dar  yn  weilch  ar  derw  yn  wydd     ....  k 

a  da  ewythr  ai  diylch  Hyw  arwystl 

9       llwydionn  ddoeth  wynin  ddoethineb  ddey  frawd  &c.   Anon    I 

10       pie  rachav f     ....  m 

iddo  ir  el  oi  weddi  (see  p.  22  infra)  Hyw  arwystl 

12       glain  ywn  — — t    ....  n 

a  Haw  ddyw dd  nant  mor 

14       Y  Hew  doniog  llwyd  winau     ....  o 

J  Ian  gorfE  elin  a  gwr  Hyw  arwystl 

17       dof  ith  blv  j  gysgy  gywas  gell  glvn  wan  &c.     H.  arwystl  p 

*  The  asterisk  prefixed  to  author's  names  marks  autograph  poems, 
t  Copied  from  an  imperfect  MS. — the  first  words  only  of  very  many  lines  are 
given. 


532  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  82. 

b.  kam  j  hy  w  vu  n  duw  venaid  oeddi  wad     ....  a 
bara  gwyn  er  hyn  a  Rynion  a  gar 

Uei  kaiff"  gvvrw  ddigon  &c.  sjv  Jeuan 

c.  kerdd  Ian  Byr  ^fan  i  ssiir  efell  iar  &c.  H.  artuystl  b 

d.  breisgbren  ais  derwew  eb  ystor  is  llyn     ....  c 
ban  eyner  a  i  benn  dano                                      „         „ 

18  llyna  gnoe  ar  bot  jr  bwrdd  ]  llanwer     ....  d 
a  dynn  ai  benn  dann  y  bwrdd                              syr  feuan 

b.  poe  heddiw  ai  flfriw  yn  ffracth  a  lanwyd     ....  e 
pei  gwiu  vai  pa  gwyn  j  vod                                  „      „ 

c.  tyrd  brvd  tal  ba  dal  byw  dan  &c.  Hywystl  f 

d.  da  lynn  da  i  perthynn  daw  porthiant  brud  &c.    syr  feuan  g 

19  Arwydd  pellenigrwydd  parch     ....  /t 
RRoed  yntav  i  minav  y  margh    Henn  brydydd  {Jolo  G.) 

21  gwn  dri  o  gyfvi  a  gvu  y  chwaneg  &c,  { 

22  pie  achav  ior  vchod     ....  k 
syr  rys  wynn  ....  penn  gwyr  lien     .... 

bawd  i  law  yn Jlyw  arwystl 

25       krist  Icadwed  kroestai  kedyrn     ....  / 

addwg  avr  tawdd  gwr  y  ty  *Hyio  arwystl 

29       bv  law  ddiiw  n  Iwys^blwyddyn  ddig    ....  m 

ni  bor  tad  [lewys  gwynn]  eb  vnbrawd  hwnn     *n.  arwystl 

31       y  gwr  [digabl  gwridawgwyn]  f     ....  n 

duw  vo  Rwj'dd  [yw  dyfv  rhawg]  Sion  ieri 

34      y  roen  gwar  1    ....  o 

boed  Ewydd  leiois  mon 

36  ni  dar  defnyn  ssyn  *  maen  ssyth  er  towr  &c.      trefnaut  p 

b.  tropin  to  n  mowntio  mantell  y  faink  &c.        Hyw  arwystl  q 

c.  llwyddodd  feuan  Ian  o  yno  adwyth  ryw  &c.     „         „  r 

d.  gwalch  llwyd  Uyw  evrayd  Hew  sion  ag  elin  &c.    „        „         s 

37  gryffydd  ar  iFawydd  yn  fEonn     ....  t 
naw  gradd  yno  i  gorweddych                        hedo  brwynllys 

38  ")  gadw  r  baeds  gida  Kys     ....  « 
gwisg  a  cbadw  gwas  gwych  ydwyd                     tvdvr  aled 

40       dart'  arglwydd  herbart  pa  ham  na  thorei     ....  v 

ai  stondart  vreicbwen  wrth  dalken  dar  Anon 

42       Eryr  digrif  efrifed     ....  .         .    '" 

ar  glod  ir  marchog  or  glynn    gr:  llwyd  ab  dd.  ab  siengkin 

45  Rys  ab  sion  :  pond  hir  na  welir  ond  nos  a; 

pei  byr  hir  yw  pob  aros     .... 

o  bydd  fyth  wrth  ych  bodd  fo.  jfer:  fynglwyd 

47  Mathias  hjradog :  pwy  na  ssir  ar  dir  kaer  dyf  .  .  .  .  y 

felly  ddyw  rag  fy  Hadd  i  Jer.fynglwyd 

49  Rys  ab  sion:  pwy  ar  dafod  pvr  difai  z 

'pa  wr  a  fydd  heb  riw  fai     .     .     .    . 

ith  law  del  athwlad  eilwith  „         „ 

52  Cywydd  i  Rys  ab  Sion,  abad  Glyn  Nedd.  a 

bardd  ydwyf  yn  brvddwydiaw 

brevddwyd  ing  ebrwydd  i  daw    .... 


JPOETRY  BY   HUW  ARWYSTL   ETC.  533 

di  swyddo  drwg  ssy  dda  ssaw     .... 

kei  di  haf  kafod  yw  hon     .     .     ,     , 

dy  droi  rys  or  didro  i  rwyd  Jvr:  fyng  Iwyd 

54  (C  i  dd:  ap  ll'n  ah  gwili/m  llwyd)  o  Gastell  howel 

draw  ni  dawn  wedir  vn  dydd  a 

drwy  deifi  ond  er  davydd     .... 

dyn  a  all  mewn  davnawlle 

ar  ddwr  a  Ilawr  vrddor  lie 

ag  ui  hawdd  gau  y  tyddyn 

nnr  ddayar  dew  vrddor  dyn     .... 

ui  bor  gwr  ....  efo  i  wraig  eb  favvr  egiii.      jfeii:  devhoyn 

56  Sion  cjrae :  yrawanwyr  gwycli  mewn  avr  gynt    ...  b 

edu  ai  siars  aed  yu  syr  sion  Oioen  ab  Un  a/j  mod 

57  y  Iloer  wenu  Uiw  eira  vnos    ....  c 
a  chael  nef  dyn  wychlan  wyd                    Jeu:  tew  hrydydd 

59       e  ddaw  isod  y  ddwysir  d 

yn  ol  sion  winevlas  hii'     .... 
dvw  ai  kynal  dvkenyd  ?  sion  (Jieri) 

61   Ifor  ab  Ho'l :  dyn  a  ffenaetli  dann  ffyniant     ....  e 

im  hoes  draw  ym  howys  a  drig  Hyio  arwystl 

64       fyng  wynfyd  oi  febyd  fv     .     .     .     .  f 

morys  .  .  .  kapten  y  tref  wen  yvv  fo    ,     .     .     , 
a  mair  ai  katwo  amen  dd:  ap  mred:  ap  ivdvr 

66       gwr  o  thrinir  gwerthrynion     ....  g 

nid  ar  hoynt  ar  heiyrn 
^euan  o  cliai  ouwayw  cbwyru     .... 
kyun  gwyiiy  i  walld  kann  gowu  el 

68  siams  ap  rrys :  Mab  a  welora  eb  olydd     . 
ewcli  weithian  bytU  cliwithavn  bonn 

71       Uowrodd  a  roes  i  foesenn     .... 
dysgwn  a  gevrwn  bob  gair 

73  edn  gwalch  hael  dann  glych  helaeth     . 
wmffre  .  .  .  .  eto  powys  ti  piav. 

74  dyn  val  einion  da  n  flaenor     .... 
evror  warr  orwyr  ierwerth 

76       llwyddan  benn  derwenu  ar  vaint  iorys  lienii  ....  m 

a  llaw  dduw  ganoes  ai  llwyddo  genyd  „  „ 

79       mis  mai  a  dann  f n 

nad  y  Rawg  newidio  Rys  „  ,, 

81       llin  kyw  alarch  llawn  kalon     ....  o 

gem  ar  afo  n  gymro  vych  *ffyw  arwystl 

84       toi  y  linant  (trwy  bowys)     ....  p 

glew  chwyrn  dJafydd  (gloiw  achoedd) 
gwythi  hen  ieirll  (getliin  oedd)     .... 
dos  drwy  veilch  (deisiav  dra  vom^  *Hyw  arwystl 

87       gwr  ai  r  Uu  (n  garwr  llawen)f  q 

yn  hy  dduw  saif  annedd  sir  sion.  „  „ 

93       a  wyddant  hwy  pwy  om  pwynt     ....  r 

am  y  fvn  i  mae  feinioes 

mewn  Ewyd  yn  y  man  i  Roes  |1  Anon 

04-5.  To  the  right  worship  full  »  «  *    Rcos  Blajne,  3.V. — afraffmentt 


hyio 

arwystl 

. 

h 

jj 

>t 

i 

dd;  ddv  athro 

. 

k 

Anoit 

I 

Hyw 

arwystl 

534  PENTARTH  MAITUSCRIPt  82. 

95       chware  siawns  ni  chyll     ....  a 

nibwyf  fyth  hefyd  heb  fathafarn  arwystyl 

06       mogeled  or  mai  i  gilydd     ....  b 

a  thri  gair  oi  thrygaredd  bedo  brwynllys 

97  bwriwyd  help  ar  brvtt  hyna     ....  c 
balain  pedwar  mab  elis     .... 

bid  ar  vn  bedair  einioes  tvdvr  aled 

98  blin  ydiw  gan  blaenedav     ....  d 
sion  deg  i  waneg  ai  wen  |  fab  Eroser    .... 

a  gwialen  aeth  yw  galyn 

a  chroes  ag  arch  a  chrys  gwyn     .... 

a  ERoi  nef  ir  hwnn  a  aeth      Rrys  goch  o  lynn  dyfr  dwy 

99  y  dref  ar  dorr  y  rafonn     ....  e 
dy  wr  ai  gwisg  fal  draig  wen                             ttvdvr  aled 

100  y  ddevgar  wych  oedd  ddai  gwraidd     ....  / 
syr  tomas  .  .  o  adam  gamais    .     .     . 

syr  edwart    .    .     ystradl[ing]     .... 

devkan  oes  ai  dyko  yn  vn  Jer:  fynglwyd 

101  o  Eroed  ywcli  yn  Erydychenn  |  gadair  a  phost    .     .     .     .  g 
tomas  yehurddas  ni  chyll 

tynn  bobyl  at  dy  hen  bebyll     .... 

tre  ddeilio  hoiwi'ro  hafrenn 

trig  yn  bont  draw  ag  yn  [benn].  owen  ab  Un  ab  mod 

102  Ihvyn  oedd  ym  mewn  He  ne  ddav    ....  h 
duw  ni  ddwg  cr  dwyn  a  ddel 

I  '■  fyth  haiach  o  fath  howel  ttvdvr  aled 

103  fyngharw  a  wisg  fwng  rrvdavr    ....  i 
dd:  fredvdd  .  .  .  ap  howel  hapf  beli  hir     .     .     .     . 

vn  duw  gan  eiiaid  y  gwyr  tvdvr  aled 

lOo       grvfiydd  ysgwarwydd  was  gwych     ....  k 

ath  wraidd  o  ffylib  ath  ras  |  dorddv     .... 
ttavr  bel  ar  berchen  tair  hyd  dd:  ap  Jeu:  llwyd 

107  y  twr  praff  at  air  proffwyd     ....  I 
syr  isiart  herbart  hir  barch     .... 

kaer  sale.m  ann  kroes  cilwaith  dd:  fynglwyd 

108  pwy  yw  bonedd  pob  ynys  »«■ 
piav  Erent  lliuwent  ai  liys     ,     .     .     . 

Erys  ...  ath  wraidd  o  fiylib  ath  ras  |  dorddv     .     .     . 
ni  bor  war  heb  orevraw  Anon 

1 09  Eredwch  yn  bont  Eroed  chwi  n  benn  |  Evys  ....  n 
doed  yua  bawb  dadon  ben.                                    John  Kcri 

110  yn  driffeth  i  rwyd  rviFvdd  ..  ap  Erys  y  mab  hir  oial    .     .    o 
tri  fFwyth  i  faslart  rvffydd  gvtor  glynn 

111  kralr  kred  ked  kynydd     kreawd  llv  bedydd     .     .     .     .      p 
dod  ym  gyfraniad     oth  wlad  ath  wedd  Jolo  goch 

114       trygarog  f renin     wyt  ir  kyffredin     ....  _         q 

trwy  gvr  brenin  trvgarawg  Dd.  ap  gwtlym 

116      mawr  fv  howel  a  mevrig     .     .     .  ^.  »' 

aed  i  farw  i  dy  fevrig  gvttor  glyn 


POETRY  BY  HtfW  ARWYSTL  ETC.  535 

117      ar  goel  vndyn  maer  glendyd     ....  a 

mastr  robart  torr  ddart  ar  ddewr  |  ap  Rrys     .... 
hyt  tydd  brawd  tiwedd  brevder  tvdvr  aled 

119  D.  ah  Edmund:  llaw-dduw  a  f v  u  lladd  awen  ...  b 

gwneled  fair  ....  Roi  pyradwys  ir  prydydd        „         „ 

121       och  dduw  nad  atebvvch  ddim     ....  c 

bid  dallach  bellach  gan  bwyll 
brycheiniog  bwrw  i  chanwyll     .... 
nach  gweled  yn  iacli  gwilitn  Anon 

124  a  mi  mewn  mann ....  d 

ai  gweled  -^— ^  Hyio  arwi/sdl 

125  Klefyd  ymrig  kvvyl  ifann     ....  e 
kann  nadolig  kynn  delor                                  Tvdvr  penUyn 

127  y  froiin  gadarn  fryn  goedwig  .  .  .  Uwchaeyarn     ...      / 
llys  forys  loiwlys  y  gwledd     .... 

ni  bwyf  .  .  .  hyn  awr  o  ddydd  hwy  nor  ddav 

(see  131  belo-w)  Rys  ab  Jeu:  am  rredydd  ddv 

128  moes  abeith  yu  serth  ywch  siad  ran  deilwng  g 
maii  .  .  .  vorwyn  henwaed  frenhiuol     .... 

moes  .   .   .  ben  ffydd  o  newydd  i  ni  &c.  syr  ifor 

129  oer  oedd ....  h 

a  chadw gvtor  glynn 

130  Oiv:  ab  ifan  abffylib :  pwy  ore  i  bap  ai  wryd     ....        i 

Haw  ddiiw  ai  llwyddo  owain  Ilyw  llieyd  vyr 

131  Mae  vn  ai  glvst  ara  naw  glann     ....  k 
morys  .  .  .  esdyned  ttyw  dy  sent  i     ow :  ap  tin  ap  moel 

132  da  ywr  pe  sy  raid  i  bawb  wi'tho  ag  uid  iraid  i  hwDw  wrth  neb, 
nid  a  vv  y  sydd  nid  y  ssydd  a  fydd  .  .  .  prydv  gwawd  cr  pryd  a  gwedd. 

133  par  dref  ym  bell  gwell  no  gwytli     ....  I 
tair  sel  teiroes  i  wiliam  [ap  sion  ap  Rys]             H^  natimor 

137       prelad  ar  yn  gwlad  (o  gbvyd)  .  .  s""  beued     ....        m 
vn  duw  athato  i  lywio  r  wlad.  gvtor  gfyn 

140  0  mair  arvtli  mor  orvvyll     ....  n 
o  fair  gwenn  afrowig  wyd  || 

141  Mae  nevrudd  yma  n  oerioii     ....  o 
ae  roi  rym  ar  .aer  emwnt  || 

143       II  karii  dy  waed  j  keir  di  (1. 2)     .     .     .     »  p 

dyrcba  ir  wyd  dair  vcbo  rys     .     .     . 
kaffom  does  tra  koffam  di  //^w  arwystl 

145  3Iar:  gtm  ap  gr:  Ro  duw  galon  ddigllondwyll  ....  q 

wrth  vyngwawr  duw  mawr  a  men       gvoilym  ap  ssejmjnn 

148  Kael  kwmin  kael  gwin  oi  genav  &c.  (lines  1-4  only)  r 

149  II  gwr  ysydd  agwre?'  .     .     ,     .  s 
OS  hir  i  fod  oeswr  fych  || 

153       dyn  ydwyf  di  newidiol     ...  t 

di  vrys  i  waitli  difri  yw  sion  [ap  dd;  ap  owen]  .  .  . 
ni  ad  sion  nid  oes  anwir 
wyro  er  gwerth  air  or  gwir     i     .     .     . 
orevro  j  orwyrion  *  hyw  arwystl 


536  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   82. 

157  //o7  ap  rys :  trof  i  gael  tra  vo  gwiliav     ....  « 

^achjs  wyf  o  cbei  oes  hir  •  Ilyw  arwystl 

160  (golygon  lleddfon  im  lladd  a  fwriais  &c.)  Anon  b 

161  Moliant  Syr  Rys   Wynn  o  Gaer  Einion 

e  geii-  ty  llawu  kwrt  y  Ilea     ....  c 

penna  n  does  mewn  piniwn  da  *  Hyw  arwystl 

165       dwbl  yw  yn  sa'ig  da  yw  blaen  sir     ...     .  d 

nit  hardd  Kodd  ont  torwydd  Eys  *  Hyw  arwystl 

168  am  i  l!iw ....  e 

ag  arfavr grvffydd  llwyd 

169  gore  gwavn  am  gwnv  gennyf    ....  f 
tir  gwavn  ywng  hartref  genych 

twymwres  haf  wyt  morys  [wynn]  wych     .... 
dros  dwythwaed  yn  drust  weithan  *  Hyw  arwystl 

173       Rolant  edno  pant  pwy  wyf  end  ych  bardd     ....        ff 
mastr  ripsiart  ap  howel     .... 
kanodd  beirdd  heb  av  kolofii  kywyddav 
wyth  vgiiin  odlav  jth  genedlaeth     .... 
edno  pant  tvrner  penn  teiyrniaetb  *  Hyiv  arwystl 

177       y  Hew  mawr  gwych  Uym  ir  g\raith     ....  h 

Jeuan  .  .  na  char  di  nechre  dyall 
roi  gair  dig  bwnt  gwr  dii  kail 
gair  dig  ai  lid  ar  dy  gledd 
a  yrr  anoeth  oi  rinwedd 
gair  yu  deg  ar  enav  doeth 
a  vniowna  vn  anoeth     .... 
bondid  wrth  benn  dy  wed  wyd  *  IJyw  arwystl 

181       y  ddevwr  hardd  oedd  ddai  Ryw    .     ,  morys    .    .  i 

llew  mred:  .  gr: .  imp  Evdding  .  imp  Jeu:  goch  .... 
brig  aeron  a  bro  girig     .... 
ewythr  a  nai  .  .  .  keirw  fro  badarn     .... 
owain  gwynn  pwytli  vgain  pvnt  *  Hyw  arwystl 

185       pwy  n  gwbwl  yw  penn  y  gobaith     ....  k 

gr  [?  ab  ho'l]  .  .  .  dy  waiw  ath  gledd  di  ath  glod 
ath  yrfeirch  aeth  i  orfod 
ederyn  wyd  aevrir  (.imperfect')  hedo  brtcynllys 

189       bardd  hen  bu  radd  oi  hvnoed     ....  / 

evrdid  vou  ar  dy  waed  vyth  Hyw  arwystl 

193       pwy  n  gall  jfawn  penn  aig  llonydd  m 

pwy  n  vawr  ond  ^arll  penfro  jn  ddydd  .  .  Edwart  .  . 
obaith  ywch  benn  byth  ych  bod  Hyic  arviystl 

197       dyallo  beirdd  da  He  bon     ....  n 

byw  vredydd  heb  vai  rydwyd 
a  chosbi  r  bai  ar  jai  rwyd     .... 
drwy  rann  bodd  draw  )r  en  ii  |  Hyw  arwystl 

200  gwcnnfcrch  gorcv  ser  gwiw  risial  golav  &c.  Anon  o 

201  marw  y  gwrbraisg  [morys  np  mred:]  mawr  ger  bronn      p 
draw  !7  ehwerw  dros  vch  aeronn     .... 

down  ger  bronn  diiw  n  gwir  brynwr  Hyw  arwystl 

205       'Jachys  ]  kaf  lann  afonn     ....  q 

bod  isso  awr  hebod  sion  [?  ab  lewys  gwynn]     „        „ 


POEMS  BY  HUW  ARWYSTL.  537 

20S)  J  w\jr  Jen.  llwijd :  oei'  yw  n  dolur  au  diuledd  « 

ewythr  j  bawb  aetli  ii-  bedd     .... 
ni  cheir  .  .  .  vytli  ewythr  o  vatli  )ouau  -Wz/iu  anoysll 

213  Jeu  up  ?  mred :  Yn  i.s  koed  nawoes  kadwer  ....  b 

dyu  traws  dvhvvnt  ircswm 
jtli  egin  draw  atb  gain  drwin     .... 
atb  epil  fyth  apla  fonn  hyw  arvoystl 

217       gwr  ai  u  gaullaw  graen  gwynllwyd     ....  c 

Hew  n  gyw  eryr  llann  girig  .  .  ,  Jeuan  .  . 
karw  fory,s  .  .  karw  siankin  goeb  .  .  o  hil  lliu  bo'  Ihvyd  .  .  . 
drwy  geri  draw  ag  aeronn 
vnpenii  gwaed  penu  aig  ydwyd     .... 
ti  a  dyfi  n  yvvcb  tid  von  wyd  *  hyio  arwi/stl 

221  Jeuan.  y  dyn  jfauk  di  nwyfiad     ....  d 

ni  bo  dav  dir  beb  dy  dad|  (no  signature) 

225  M''  risslart  heibarl :  0  rodd  diiw  o  wraidd  dwywent  .  .         e 
J  edrycb  Koi  r  dorch  ar  bwnn  *hi/w  arwystl 

228       Mae  vu  gwr  ym  yn  gariad     ....  ./' 

Tho'  [?  ab  ]feu:]  o  laun  girig  .  .  .  weilch  kiU'aob  wcnn  .... 
oth  wj'lbryw  waed  actb  itli  rith 
nid  eginodd  oud  gwenith     .... 
chwecb  kwestiwu  medd  gatwn  gall 
draw  oedd  dda  ir  dewr  yw  ddyall 
p.nham  wr  didwyll  pwyllig 
pie  bycb  pan  ddwettych  yn  ddig 
am  bwy  r  Hew  niawr  brav  llawenn 

ac  wrth  bwy  del  gair  oth  benn  &c 

a  (luw  atli  wna  dithav  n  well  A  Eltys  or  ARkys 

233  Marwnad  llymelyn  ap  grvffydd  o   Gyveiliog. 

trist  i  Roi  wyrth  trai.5  duw  Rawg     ....  g 

draw  mynwes  duw  maer  euaid  *Hyw  arwysll 

237  f  sion  vychan  ap  Rydderch  "  ieiyrn  arglwyddi  towynn." 

J  gwr  fEyrf  i  gorS  ai  wyr     ....  h 

crcbi  chwi  (?)  pwyth  ar  chwech  pvnt  Hyto  aricystl 

24 1    ^  niankin  go}  himp  hoivel  a[p'\  Rys  \lltoyd'\ 

pwy  n  wr  ir  kail  pan  rocr  ked     ....  i 

vn  dyn  byth  a  wna  duw  n  ben  ,,  ,, 

245   Mar:  ffylih  "  ais  forys  goch  "  "  lliii  ruff:  lltcyd." 

hwyr  J  ddynion  heirdd  vnoed     ....  k 

mair  a  (diadvv  hap  mercbed  hwnn  „  „ 

249  Mar:  Owen  "  Hew  siankin"  "o  ryw  griff li  " 

mac  kwyn  gwlad  ym  akwnglais  |  macbynnllaith   ....  t 

dyrnas  duw  dewr  onest  oedd  „  „ 

250  f  Edio:  herhart :  keirw  marchog  dvriog  y  w  darn  boa     .     ,       in 

pvr  iawn  genedl  pren  gwinwydd  Anon 

h.     onith  gaf  ni  iFrydaf  ffrwst  &e.  „       n 


t  It  is  diiRcuU  to  say  whether  the  first  and  last  line  belong  to  the  same  Cywjdd. 
The  writing  of  pages  223  and  224  difBers  in  style  the  one  from  the  other,  and  from  that 
of  pp.  S!21-2.     A  leaf  has  been  cut  out  between  p.  222  and  p.  223. 

y  98430.  Q 


538  1*ENIAKTH  MANUSCEilT  82. 

253  J  ttn  ap  rys  o  loilkog  ap  ifann  "  arglwyddiveilch  mowdwy  " 

y  gwr  o  fath  y  gwyr  fv     .     .     .     ,  a 

o  bwjth  y  march  ue  both  niwy  *  Owen  gwynedd 

257       kwbl  yn  dafel  del  vn  darn     maels  diir     ....  b 

torr  ffyun  owen  (jwynn  .  .  ysgvvJer  harri  wyth  .... 
ffyrnik  kyfarwydd  wyd  yn  ffraink  vowrwych  .... 
a  da  draw  eihvaith  adre  delych  *Hyw  arwystl 

261  ^  liys  karw  forys  goch  o  waed  einion 

y  Hew  brevsswych  Haw  brisswych     ....  c 

syniaid  Haw  sioned  ai  lies 

a  wnai  genarth  yn  gynnes     .... 

bondid  gwaed  bond  wyd  gadarn  ,,  ,, 

265  J  sion  rychan :  ^rgyw  r  pavn  ar  gwrr  [?  pennal]  d 

ai  adain  wen  yd  yu  ial     .     .     .     . 
ych  hoe[d]yl  duw  ywcli  dol  dowyn  „  „ 

2C9       y  dyn  "Jt  synn  dwyn  arwydd     ....  e 

dy  air  da  saif  edward  sion  [?  ap  mred:  ap  dd:]  .  .  . 
llanu  lliigan  da  i  varddgan  vydd 
Hann  gynniw  n  llwynav  gwinwydd     .... 
peri  Jchwi  r  par  yclienn  „  „ 

273      y  dyn  a  gras  dvw  /  n  /  y  gnidd    ....  / 

Hwyn  o  winwydd  llanwnawg     .... 
drwy  gael  i  bwyth  draig  loyw  lais  *Oiven  givpiedd 

277       lie  jm  kanv  Hew    im  kynal    ....  g 

kwrt  [PEdwart]  robart  ....  bacbelldref  .  .  . 
ni  bo  ^ddyn  byth  llebddo  n  benn  *hyw  arwystl 

280  a  mi  n  glaf  er  mwyn  gloivvferch     ....  h 
nag  wy  di  oer  nag  yderyn                            dd:  ap  gwilym 

281  gwr  addwyn  heb  gerdd  anwir     ....  i 
glanwaed  morys  ar  godiad  Ryw  r  gwaed  wyd  Eys  .  .  . 
dwyrent  gu  da  wai'ant  gwr 

a  addawech  i  ddovwr 

vn  ym  yvv  cliael  vcb  daelwyd 

arall  yn  Hann  ir  Hen  llwyd 

er  Roi  wowrhav  r  orav  rann 

heb  y  ddwy  ni  bydd  ^euan     .... 

mac  mhob  He  ]q\\  bardd  ai  liardd  liy[iin] 

gwrycli  arvthr  gwr  a  chorynn 

dug  o<ldiarnaf  dig  deyrnawd 

aber  bechan  gwinllau  gwawd     .... 

■Jr  gwr  dy  medyddiwr  dyw  liyw  arwystl 

285       y  Hew  ir  byrrav  oil  or  byrrig     ....  * 

rrys  aer  forrys  .  .  .  wyr  ftn  .  .  .  uwch  ben  gwy  .  .  . 
or  march  am  koryff  He  gyffo 
fenaid  yn  dyrraid  arro 
This  poem  is  anonymous,  but  is  evidently  in  the  autograpli  of  its  author, 

289  Mar:  syr  sion  .  .  eglwys  vrsiil    .  .  .  tend 
ag  allaicr  jfdlos  Iwyd  a  las  i  lawr. 
lilaer  son  gan  weinion  gwao  ni     .     .     .     .  ' 

nid  eisav  help  end  oes  liwy  *Hyw  arwystl 

292      y  mae  E17W  arawynt  im  Rrwymaw     ....  ''^ 

vu  oet  tydd  ym  a  wna  tal  dd:  ap  gwilym 


POEMS  BY  HUW  ARWySTL.  539 

f  Otoenn  ap  sion  ap  griffith  "  brevlan  gariv  bro  lanii 
ffirif/  "  a  "  sail  holl  bowys." 
293       gwiincd  jarll  ben  a  goidw  ]  wyr  lly[s]     ....  a 

vii  bon  gwaed  yn  ben  aig  el  *\_ll.  arwystC] 

297       pwy  w  vn  or  blaeu  penii  ir  blaid     ....  b 

vgiiia  bywch  a  gei  in  bwyth  *Hyw  arwi/sll 

300  [gwjawr  ddydd  meivionydd  mawr  annaw[dd]  ira  nwyf  ,  .   c 
lloer  morynion  llawr  meirionydd  [J///«;  p.  505]    fer:  y  hyriorj 

301  syr  sion:  hap  Idos  kylch  teml  'Jdios  Iwyd     ....  d 

gwnpo  ytt  o  rent  ganpvnt  traw  *Hyw  arwysll 

SOo       Hwyr  draw  diwreiddiaw  dy  wrych  hyw  .  .  Hew  "j.  ap  dd:  .  .  .  e 
drwy  ddiiw  i  safo  draw  a  ddeisyfych  *Hyw  arwystl 

308  rys  orav  n  hir  is  aeron     ....  / 
i  rys  faint  a  roes  o  fwyd                                 dd:  nann  mor 

309  liuwel  a  wuaeth  raab  maetli  mcdd  y 
awen  gain  owen  gwynedd     .... 

^  ddangos  myfyrglos  mawl     .... 

dyl'gais  .  .  inav  .  .  yn  ievanglc  .  . 

dysg  deg  rymadeg  a  mydyr     .     .     . 

bvm  hyddysg  .  .  ynghyfraith  .  .  sivil     .... 

kyfarwydd  .  .  .  wyf  ynn  .  y  beibl     .... 

profais  .  .  ya  gryno  pob  iawn  gyronik 

dysgais  yr  eang  ffrangeg 

(loeth  yw  i  dysg  da  iaith  deg  .  .  .  ar  astlabar     .... 

a  dyall  modd  i  sodiak  .  ,  ar  7  blaued  .  .  ar  12  arwydd  .  .  . 

troytliais  am  da  wiw  ddwywefys 

talm  mawr  fir  lyfr  talymevs  .  .  .  Rifoedd  y  sor     ,     .     . 

gwypwn  gapiti  j  eres  elisdotles  ditl     .... 

y  radd  ar  fann      .  .  i  bor  havl  dan  v/ybyr     .     .     . 

a  ffwynt  vclider  pob  sereu  ...  a  ffob  pren 

ag  isder  dyfynder  pob  dyfwn     .     .     . 

[a]  hyd  i  gellid  .  .  gweled  bella  a  golwg    .... 

kanwn  mi  lyswu  low  salm 

kyn  no  liyn  ar  delyn  dalym     .... 

ar  nef  ddwyref  lie  llawenn 

ar  naid  im  enaid  a  men  Jcu:  ap  Rydd}  ap  J.  llwyd 

317       Y  gwr  all  bwrw  gair  wcllwell     .     .     ,     ■  A 

Ihiis  duw  n  vy  wyllys  jfdel  *IIijw  arwysll 

321        Awn  at  eryr  gwyr  ai  gael  yn  wraidd     ....  i 

o  waod  Rowiog  y  triael  .  .  .  sion  Ud:  gr:     .     .     . 
,  karw  dros  rvw  kaer  wcdros  ran     .... 

[a]  chalon  wych  ywch  law  neb  [1-  IS]-]- 

323       II  barddiiw  aetli  niedd  bfirdd  owen     ....  Ii 

"bo  vn  oi  lin  benn  y  wlad  '*Hym  arwystl 

327       Y.dyii  £fres  gwycli  / 

barn  ann  -fwng  ,,         „ 

331       meredydd  ddevrydd  ' —  m 

af  ar  owdwl  i  fredvdd  deio  ap  jfeuan  dv 

f  Two  leaves  cut  out  here. 


Q  2 


540  PENIARTH   MANCSCRIPT   83. 

MS.  83  =  Hen.  252.  PoETRr.  Paper  i  8^  x  6  iuches;  latlfir  half 
of  the  xvith  ceutury ;  in  several  Lands — pp.  13-31  Lave  the  peculiar 
form  of  y  used  by  Dr.  JoLn  Dd.  llees  in  Lis  grammar;  172  pages, 
of  wLicb  123,  126,  167-171  are  blank;  imperfect,  and  outer  margics 
frayed ;  sewn  in  old  vellum — in  a  case. 

This  MS.  has  evidently  been  in  the  same  condition  since  the  entry— "  llyfr  Eys 
Kain  ac  o  ddail  83  "  [the  blank  pp.  167-172  being  evidently  not  counted]  (p.  172). 
The  entries — "  dyma  law  gryflfydd"  (p.  58)  ;  "  gwybydded  p.iwb  may  Haw  dauid  ap 
hwell  ap  thomas  jw  honn "  (p.  94)  ;  and  " llyma  law  morgan  .-ip  henri  ap  owen  do 
langevela}  "  (p.  84),  do  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  two  individuals  wrote  any  part 
of  the  text.    The  name  of  "  KadwaUad  ap  Kobert "  occurs  on  p.  1. 

[mawr  ywr  dysc  3  no  mayr  da]*  *  *  «  a 

1       II  gady  or  ressy  rossyn  [1. 41]     ...     . 

y  venni  y  ddaf  innay  yytto  r  glyn 

3  Rhaglan  :  Ryvedd  ydiw  n  ryveddyd     ....  b 

ny  vydaf  0  nef  vydol  Ilwel  dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Bys 

G  J  Dd:  llwyd :  Hawdd  amor  blaonor  y  bleid     ....  c 

a  Haw  ddyw  rag  lladd  y  wyr  dd:  natomorlsui] 

9       Y  dy  Lydyr  or  dchaidir     ....  d 

koUeist  a  roddeist  kcllestr  wyd  ff?/ltor  glin 

13       ILe  nyd  teg  lliw  onyd  dy     .     .     .     .  e 

Angel  dy  yng  wlad  eas  yyito  r  glyn 

16       Pyut  hir  nawelir  ond  nos     ....  / 

o  bydd  vyth  wrth  ycli  bodd  vo  jfoncerth  vynglwyd 

20       Pwy  ar  davod  pyr  difai     ....  g 

ytb  law  del  ath  wlad  ailwaith  „  „ 

22       Davydd  maer  baiedd  [«ic]  yn  dyfod     ....  h 

anbyfryd  byd  heb  dy  bcnn  gyfor  glyn 

25       Y  gwr  sy  Lwy  nog  ywr  sir     ...     .  t 

ond  alaw  ney  dai  wilim  ifan  daylwyn 

28       A  wclai  neb  a  wela     ....  ^ 

A  cliadw  r  gaer  iccLyd  yr  gwr  jfolo  goch 

30       Y  dday  gawr  wych  dda  y  gwrcidd     ....  I 

daykan  oes  acli  dyco  yn  vn  iorwcrth  vynglwyd 

3-i       Damwain  blin  ywr  byd  yma     ....  ,         "* 

Ay  roi  ar  iarll  penvro  y  rwyf  Deio  dy 

87  JL'nddy:  Y  Hew  draw  ay  llidiaw  yr  wyd     ....         n 
ny  bydd  dragywydd  dy  gas  Jefnn  daylwyn 

89  Cyffro  Hwnalo  heth :  Kronigl  y w  kyrn  u  glywir     ...      0 
gwir  ywr  gwir  ix  gair  ar  gamp  Rys  nawmor 

42  7  Oiv:  ap  gr:  Vn :  Eryr  digrif  af  rifed     ....  p 

ar  glod  yr  marcLog  or  glyn  folo  goch 

46  f  sios  bar  :  sais  odwyth  mywn  siass  ydwyd     ....  q 

bwla  kymry  ben  baladr  Lewys  y  glyn 


r 


48  y  Dd:  abad  Margani :  Y  lien  addvwyn  llonydd  vawr    .    . 
liar  b}d  heb  yr  abad  Lwn  ieroeth  [vynglwyd] 

50  9  rys  ap  sion  :   j  lin  a  aeth  y  lyn  nedd     ....  « 

ac  ieyrll  ay  ran  gair  Haw  rys  lewys  y  glyn 

53       Balch  yw  llawdden  y  leni  ' 

banw  mawr  medd  pob  vn  ym  i  .     .     ,     . 
pm  dagv  mi  ay  dygaf  ffotcel  stordical 


POETRY   BY  VARIOUS  AlTTHORS,  641 

55      Ercheis  varch  dihafarch  dy     .     ,     .     .  « 

dros  y  vost  ar  draws  y  varch  llairdden 

58       ieau  deg  ay  on  wayw  dyr     ....  b 

gryffydJ  ar  gywydd  ywr  gwr 
gryg  hirddoetU  goray  korddwr     .... 
y  garwn  mwy  nor  gwyr  man  ffl/tor  gltjn 

60       klefyd  oedd  enbyd  y  ddyn     ....  c 

er  dy  vw3'n  eyr  do  vanwallt 
y  bydd  dail  ar  wydd  yrallt     .... 
vydd  yni  dy  gael  vainael  vevcli  bedo  ayr  drem 

62      y  vercli  liirwen  vyrchyrol     ....  d 

wyf  ym  hoen  nef  ym  henaid  lewys  mor  ganiog 

64       Dwyn  syr  water  [Herbart]  ner  dyw  nyd    y  roddi    .    .    .    e 
dwyn  oy  varw  dean  voryd     .... 
y  inaes  y  rytych  am  syr  water  forwerth  vynglwyd 

67       Kenir  hiraithir  withan  yr  ytkyrn  / 

am  vastyr  watkin  vychan     .... 
yr  egin  ieieink  drwy  wir  enayey  Eys  brychan 

70       Kys  [ap  Tho^]  os  3Tynys  a  renir  y  gid     ....  g 

o  wartha  y  draed  nertha  di  rys  Janhyn  vynglwyd 

7-4  Mar:  Rys  ap  sion  :  Vn  eissiav  golav  Rag  galon  y  .sydd  ...     h 
witbion  oy  aisi.av  aeth  yn  isaf  Jorwerth  vynglwyd 

78  Mar:  Dd:  Kradaioc :  drogan  y  vran  yrwyf  rwn  y  ben  ...        i 
dwyn  y  chwyn  dyw  nycbwynwn     .... 
ar  roi  draw  ganoes  y  drygonwch  Rys  namor  \o\  nawmor 

81       y  verch  y  vyra  ny  herchi     ....  h 

ddissymwth  jfessy  amen  Anon 

83       Pam  y  kanem  paym  kynil     ....  / 

Harri  wythfed  hiraytbfawr     .... 
a  dans  ar  ol  dwyn  syr  Rys  [ap  Tho']  „ 

85       Y  Hew  ay  vrig  oil  o  fraint     ....  m 

vwy  vwy  vo  yn  dy  vyd  vyth  Ryssiart  vynglwyd 

87       Yr  vrddol  aCir  or  ddwy  lys     .     .     .     .  n 

herbartt  wvr  iarll  ar  barr  trwm     .... 
vn  Icssu  tliwnel  yn  oeswr  „  ,, 

89       Duw  na  chair  oes  dyn  ni  chred     ....  o 

marw  arglwyddes  .  .  margred  .  .  mawusel  waed  .  .  . 
duw  ar  ail  dav  wyr  wiliam  Ryssiart  vynghcyd 

94  (Vynghyfeillon  myl  a  ffracth  a  icntit  kaeth  a  Ryddyon  .  .  ,    p 
ny    hwardd    vynghalon    ony  rwud    y  vainir   wen  a  mine) 

[ — unfinished. 

95  0  vair  beth  ynn  pair  heb  hav  q 
liyn  ai  gwnai  henn  ganyav     .    .     . 

OS  yr  ychenn  nys  pennant 

y  tair  jav  yddynt  hwy  'ddant  Jevan  dayhvynn 

99       Y  may  genyf  glyddyf  glas     ....  r 

valen  adyr  val  yn  dorth  Hyiv  hav  Ihvyd 

101       Teyrn  y  mysk  trin  a  mael 

lyrhayarnn  .  .  ap  'Jevann  .  .  ap  meyryg     ....  5 

0  cbyrydd  swydd  ny  chwa[r]dd  sais  Dd:  ap  cdmwnt 


542  PENtARTH  MANUSCRIPT  83, 

104  fr  naidr :  Y  g^vr-  y  -sydd  ar  groes  hirwaecl     ....  a 

y  gwenwyn  oil  a  gwna  yn  iacli  Bys  brydydd 

107       Ty  dir  gwynt  tad  elra  ag  od     .     .     .     .  4 

a  ckan  awdl  vwcliennaidiav  Mredrjdd  ap  Rys 

110  llwyn  gwallt  val  meillion  y  gaf  &c.  Anon  c 

111  Yr  hayl  deg  ar  vyn  neges     ....  ^ 
y  gynal  y  morganwg                  gr:  pa  dd:  pa  ieuon  lygliva 

113       ILariaidd  varwniaidd  vryuach  g 

llywelyu  )estyn  y  ach     .... 

ylydd  yt  wyf  y  vydd  tav  gwilim  tew 

IIG       Kan  liawdd  vyd  kany  ddwy  vi  f 

y  vynach  wrth  y  veni     .... 

a  dyw  ailchwaith  y  diolcho  Toiiias  derllys 

119       Tayrnu  gwyr  yetrad  tywi  g 

tomas  .  .  ap  gr:  .  .  ap  nikclas     .... 

benri  dwn  ya  yraid  oedd  (i.  lO—nnfmished.) 
b.      y  dydd  o  vywyd  aiddic  h 

a  roi  vym  elltith  y  rawc 

ar  y  gwanwyn  oer  gwuawe  Anon 

121  grwndewch  arnai  bawb  ar  gau  vi    yn  dwedyd    daa  i 

vynghystydd_    .... 
a  fai  yn  korddi  yr  ais  olid   yw  karyad  glendid  gwledydd 

122  Hwel  vnvaeth  h.iel  iawn  vydd     ....  k 
lied  no  garth  He  dawn  a  gwg  (1.  2i—unfinislied.') 

124       Er  ofn  bairdd  yr  wyf  yn  benn     .     . 
y  vrau  glais  overnagl  wyd 

127       y  ssierf  aeth  y  sir  von 

syr  hyw  lewys  o  lifon     .... 
o  gayo  y  vo  a  gai  vai  varch 

129       ijwy  or  vn  gwaed  y  preu  gwin     .     . 
am  gylch  haul  am  y  gwalch  hwn 

133  Dd:  ahad  margam :  y  Hen  y  gair  Uawn  y  gob 
bid  hwy  bo  yr  abad  liwun 

139  _f  ahud  konwy :  gida  vn  a  gaidw  gwynedd 
^e^ch  dec  bai  varch  y  dwyu 

142       y  kairw  mawr  He  kair  medd     .... 
er  deigrav  mair  dec  ar  i  mab  [p.  I32]. 

147       robert  gorwych  ryw  aber    ....  r 

ap  ]fevau  vychan  ai  vedd     .... 
dav  lew  a  blew  val  y  blaid  ||  (1.  59). 

149       mynych  val  peder  am  wenyn     ....  * 

y  wnel  mihangel  a  mair      U'a  ap  hwel  ap  if  an  ap  grohw. 

151       Bryddwydo  obry  r  rydwyf    ....  t 

bai  rann  oil  byrhav  nydd  gr:  ap  Jev:  ap  U'n  ychan 

153      mae  vn  vwyn  ai  min-o  vel     ....  « 

disgynoedd  ym  dasg  enyd  j|  (i.  42). 

155       [y  ferch  irwen  farch  wrol     .     .     .     .]  v 

•\\  gair  o  bryd  gwjn  vy  myd  [mawr]    .... 
gwai  vi  or  vod  gwrthod  gwen  .     tydyr  aled 


. 

I 

rys  nanmor 

m 

iettan  day  Iwyn 

n 

tydyr 

aled 

;ob    .    .    . 

0 

[ 

'   ] 

tydyr 

aled 

P 

tildur 

aled 

q 

POETRY  BY  VAEIOUS  AUTHOES,  543 

156  [  J  yr  dan  ofydd  a 
[             ]aes  y  dal  nos  na  dydd     .... 

derern  hwy  hi  dyr  ym  hen  llo:  op  rainallt 

157  da  obaith  vydd  dav  beth  vwjn     ....  h 
ny  bo  rwydd  yr  neb  ai  roes                                 tijdijr  alecl 

159      y  dyn  ar  gwallt  dan  aiir  gwiw    ....  c 

wyf  yn  hoen  nef  ym  henaid  lewys  y  glyn 

161       gyttyn  y  glyn  yssyn  glaf     ....  d 

yw  roi  arall  y  n-ywron  *yr  rys  o  garno 

164  J  syr  Rys :  gwae  a  gynhaliodd  y  gyd     ....  c 

dan  y  gist  a  dwyn  y  gan  gjjtto  glyn 

172       llaian  hardd  yw  llyn  honn     ....  / 

*  *  *   ddawn  oil  yth  ynillwyd  ||  (1.  lo). 


MS.  84  =  Hen.  2o3.  Poetry,  including  ILyfyr  Dd.  Kayo.  Paper ; 
about  8^  X  8  iachcs  ;  second  half  of  the  xvitli  century  in  many  hands  ; 
254  pages;  injured  by  rats  at  the  top  corners;  the  outer  edges  iue 
frayed,  and  the  text  is  in  some  places  imperfect;  sewn  ;  in  a  case  witli 
MS.  85. 
The  namu  of  William  Jones  occurs  on  p.  214,  &c. 
Pages  1-2  should  follow  page  132  which  see. 

3  jf  ssion  up  huw  :  Klovvais  fawl  koeliais  [  J    .    .    .  g 

a  bon  kanoes  benn  kenedl  Gr:  Hiractlioc 

5       Hen  ddeliv  honn  addolynt     ....  h 

[ll]e  paliai  n  rraed  pob  lie  n  rrydd  Lewys  mon 

9      dvr  vn  gerdd  oran  ygwir     ....  i 

liaw  ddvw  ai  llwyddo  ai  wyr  ssimwrU  fychan 

13       mae  vn  kvn  yma  yn  kynal     ....  k 

fo  nef  ai  gartref  i  gyd  gvio  or  glyn 

16       Y  byd  rrwng  y  pedwar  ban     ....  / 

^n  eneidiav  yn  enwedic  Ilcl  up  dd:  ap  Jen:  ap  Rys 

19  f  syr  Wm:  — Y  llys  wen  pob  lie  sy  is     .     .     .  m 

fo  allai  boed  velly  i  bych  le%njs  mon 

23       Pwy  oil  ar  gair  pell  i  gyd     ....  n 

vn  waed  yw  pawb  ond  i  parch     .... 
a  roer  ddwy  dorth  vrddedic  Sion  lieri 

27  flo'l  ai  briod:  Y  ddev  ddyn  a  ddiweddwyd  ...  o 

heb  wanhav  meibion  Howel  leioys  mon 

31       Y  mae  geny  ym  gan  wyl     ....  p 

Owain  .  .  ym  wr  as  ail  em  rys  liir     ... 
^r  wyneb  aro  einioess  Anon 

35  f  D.  ap  J.  ap  Einion:  Y  blaenaf  o  bobyl  wyncdd  ...  g 

0  wynedd  am  anedd  mwy  Dd:  nan  mar 

38  hir  iecliyd  genyd  ganoes  ith  dalaith     ....  r 
rrobert  wyn  hir  bo  yt  einioes                                         Anon 

h.       tvthinsoch  dvgoch  rvw  daith  aredcg  &c  ,,        s 

39  II   [O]   dri  ffynianf.  grymiant  gras     ....  t 
oes  gleissiad  prys  oglwysdec                                Qr:  h'lraethoc 


544  PENIARTH  MANUSCBIPT  84. 

44       Y  tri  da  om  tra  deall     ....  a 

dvw  aioyl,  oea  dvioed  ydd  Wiliam  llyn 

50       tynv  rydwyf  tann  redeg     ....  4 

riid  ofei-  hyn  dvw  vo  rrwydd  (p-  53).  ieuan  tew 

N.B.  It  is  not  clear  whether  the  hist  line  above  belongs  to  the  same  Cywydd  as  the 
first  line.  The  leaves  of  pages  51-6  want  their  top  half,  while  the  remainin" 
fragments  are  imperfect.     The  text  of  pp.  .54-6  is  difficult  to  catalogue.  ° 

57     *Dri\v  a  roes  ynn  yn  oes  ni     .     .     .     .  c 

Ac  oes  i  ddavydd  [Sions]  a  Ann 

A  vytho  /  II  /  y  ncf  weithian  Simwiit  vaclian 

Gl     *may  kwyn  vthr  mae  kan  athrist     ....  d 

Pii's  ywain  .  .   abergelav  dec     .... 

iiiynn  weled  y  manylwir 

mynn  wybod  gwaelod  y  gvvir     .... 

iechyd  hii-  [a]  nef  ich  tad  John   Twli/r 

69  *Barnad  leivys  ap  Jen:  ap  madoc  o  lann  evrgain 

byd  blin  bod  heb  lawenydd     ....  e 

oni  clily w  yn  iach  lewys  John  Tudr 

77  Yr  glaned  merched  yr  glyny  ffryw     ....  / 
Ny  ro3  ben  ar  obenyth                                                    Anon 

78  Plethiad  mwyu  eiliad  mynvl[wawd]  &c.  „     </ 
f).       gar  bron  athi-awon  othreian  i  dysg     ....  A 

tyfvdd  y  glod  yt  ifan  /  keiriog  .  .  karvirr  glaii      jfen:  Uafar 

79  f  Wm:  Mostvn :  *Tegaingl  kedvvid  duw  Jago     ....        i 

Jw  rann  /  a  ro  hir  einioes  Simwnt   Vachan 

87  3[ar:  masdres  ffrawnses  merch  ifank  S.  ab  Rys  ilwyd 

*Vn  dvw  a  droes  in  oes  ni     .     .     .     .  k 

dan  i  nawdd  vn  dvw  i  nef  ^etc  Uafar 

91  y  Hutu  ab  lewis  Owain;  Y  gwr  a  wn  hygar  wedd  I 

a  gar  wyneb  gwirionedd     .... 
hiiw  yu  i  dv  *   »   *  *     (^imperfect)  Risi\_art  Philip'] 

97     *Y  Hew  or  blaen  vw   «*#*..  .  {imperfect)  m 

Yt  a  saif  dra  heto  saeth  wiliam  lli/n 

101    To  hys  lovyng  frend  Edw:  ivyn  thys  Itewydd  is  spede.     M. 

*mae  son  am  radd  haelioni     ....  n 

ir  pedwar  liaelgar  ai  nydd  no  signature. 

105       Ysgwicrwalch  di  falcli  ai-  dwyn     ....  o 

mown   peii"!   — —.—   {imperfect  and  nnfinisheil). 

107  DjYma  lvfr  awnaeth  dd:  kayo  [?  laye]  p[an]  oedd 

OKD  liRIST    MIL   A   BANNER  A   Tn[AIR]    MLYNEDD. 

Pages  1-2,  107-138  of  this  manuscript,  pages  47-50  of  MS.  86  and  the  whole  of 
MS.  85  are  in  the  s-ime  hind. 

108  [maw]r.  ywr  ofyn  am  ryfel  p 
mwy  no  dim  gwaer  mann  i  del     ...     . 

gidar  nordd  yn  gadarn  gawn  Robin  ddu  o  fon 

110       dyall  i  bawb  dyll  y  byd     ....  q 

gedwch  hynn  dvw  gida  cliwi  dd:  Ilwyd 

112       nim  tawr  mwyach  trwy  mowyd     ....  r 

a  duw  nef  yn  Roi  dav  nod  [         ]  Howel  Mian 

'  Tiieso  poems  are  in  the  autograph  of  their  respective  authors. 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  545 

115       swydd  y  wavn  svddai  enyd     ....  a 

gwaed  twii  agattwo  i  enaid  wiliam  alaw 

]  18       y  ddyn  a  wisg  addwyn  wen     ....  b 

ath  gael  or  mab  mwya  ath  gar  ai  Jtarodd  ai  hant 

120       kybydd  fab  difedydd  die     ...     .  c 

fab  naf  north  fab  nef  yii  ol  John   Tijdr 

123*     Awst  i  Has  yngliastell  j     .     .     .     .  d 

annercb  ^arll  ymreichie  hwnn  Gyttor  gljnn 

135*  Mar:' syr  sion  pilsdwnn  "wyr  chwittnai  hen."     13/f1. 

toess  oer  gwyn  teirsir  gwynedd     ....  c 

och  cell  am  wr  ni  chewch  mwy.  sion  brwynog 

127*  Mar:  sion  trevor  "o  ffaer  oswallt." 

o  ddvw  ban  iddwy  eb  wedd     ....  f 

trwy  farn  byd  trefor  yn  [ben]  mcithe  hronffild 

134*     Mol:  S.  llwyd:    *  *  *  *  «  penn  kawn  piavn  kynnal  .  .  .    g 
yw  gael  yu  dop  glain  nod  jal  gi'llffyl'-l'  hirajjthoc 

131*     livw  deyrnwalch  ydeirniawn     ....  A 

ar  gil  nid  a  ryw  glynn  dwr     .     .     . 
hvw  gwynn  yr  hawc  einioes  Gr :  hiraythoc 

139  II  byth  nid  ythhonyn  heb  wg    ....  i 
dvw  kynos  an  dyko  yn  vn 

b,       O  bv  ssoriant  bas  — —^     ....  k 

na  bo  /  r  /  wlad  — ||  imperfect 

140  Mar:  hatrin  mathav  Vi  morgan  mam  syr  rys 

Morganwg  ymrig  ynys     ....  / 

math  mam  dd:  mathav  mwy  Leioys  mon 

144  ssion  Rinwedd  ssynwyr  hynod/ssy  vyw  &c.  Anon  m 
I.       Amiwc  oedd  mal  i  gwyddwn  //  ddwbl  ias  oer  &c.        „       n 

145  Yn  y  llys  frv  yn  llawes  y  fron     ....  o 
Jcchaid  vwch  chwi  ai  dichon                                Lewis  mon 

148       Pwy  ar  dafod  pvr  difai  p 

pwy  a  vydd  heb  llyw  fai     .     .     .     . 
ith  law  i  del  ath  wlad  oilwaith  jforivarth  Jynnglwyd 

151       Pand  hir  na  welir  end  nos     ....  q 

O  bydd  fyth  wrth  ych  bodd  fo  „  „ 

154       Gwenfrewy  duw  fry  gwaed  i  fron  mor  debig      ...        r 
J  gelyn  a  friwodd  y  glan  wen  frewy 

John  ap  ho  ap  ll'n  vachan.     r.  t. 

158       Doe  r  aeth  liw  dv  ar  lawer     ....  s 

am  sion  gr:  bevnydd  bv  /  ap  hvw  alar     .... 
yn  ta  sion  at  iesv  aeth  Simont  vachan 

162  J  4  mab  tvdvr  ab  gronw  o  henmynydd 

mynd  ir  wy  i  dir  mon  dyraw     ....  t 

tyrva  i  von  tra  fwy  fyw  Jolo  goch 

165  Moliant  Eees   Win  ap  Hughe 

y  uiae  hiraeth  im  hoyri    ....  « 

Dvw  a  Rys  wyn  deiroys  hydd  Hugh  Kowrnwy 

*  Pages  1-2,  123-138  are  deranged  and  should  run  in  the  following  order,  123-6, 
135-8,  127-8,  133-4,  129-32,  and  1,  2.  Pages  47-50  of  MS.  86  should  follow  p.  2 
of  this  MS. 


546  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  84. 

168       Gvvao  fardd  a  goflo  vrddas    ....  a 

Rolant  .  .  Amredvdd  ...  a  ddigiodd 
Kvl  yw  fais  nes  kael  J  fodd     .... 
ar  Hew  dv  mawr  ifarllwayd  mon  .     i3T§.         JVm:  lleyn 

170       Tyfodd  yn  Rydd  tew  fwy     .     .     .     .  h 

ddiaink  o  cherddai  ddayar  Hugh  penial 

173  f  Edw:  llwyd:  Y  gwr  ai  dai  vwch  gwar  dol  c 

y  min  afoa  man  nefol     .... 
llaw  ddvw  nef  ach  llwyddo  yu  wr  Wm:  llyn 

177       Aer  evtyn  a  roer  yta     ....  d 

a  roir  vwch  am  /  r  /  ychen  dd:  op  Edmwnt 

180       Olwen  gvlael  Ian  galon     ....  c 

darfv  i  wen  fwyn  derfyn  foes  John  tvdvr 

184  myn  krist  rwy  fi  yn  drist  mewn  drain  /  yn  gorwedd  o  gariad  !y  rhiain   / 
fom  gwelir  yn  farw  gelain  /  ar  ol  y  ferch  ar  ael  fain  Anon 

185  Diiw  dros  y  wlad  a  droes  [UifJ     ....  g 
J  Sion  wyn  fo  drws  nef                                Simicnt  vachan 

188       ni  chwnrdd  y  galen  o  bell  &c.     pro  me  Ev.tn  ap  John  Win  h 

101       Mawr  gvr  mawr  ddolyr  mawr  ddwyn  mawr  gvi-io  &c.    Anon   i 

h.     Dan  onnenn  la.4snenu  dyna  Iwyssnaid  &c.     Simwnt  vychan  It 

c.      Mawr  glod  y  steddfod  is  dail  ac  irwydd  I 

yun  rref  gaerWys  adail  &c.  Hv\e  Keiricce 

192       Mis  ionawr  myglyd  dyfryn     ....  m 

adderfydd  vnydd  agynos  Anon 

195  Ni  lefys  ycgwen  seren  siarwad  &c.  „    n 

196  Kerais  ferch  kvrio  sy  fav     ....  o 
del  yw  bardd  dal  heb  ordderch             feu:  ap  ll'n  vychan 

199       T  ddyn  fwyn  addwyn  faynawl    ....  p 

o  bwyth  ir  karl  boithir  koyd  Bedo  ffylip 

201  o  bydd  vwch  ddyfod  Uei  bwy  //  ddyn  fedrys  &c.  Anon  q 

202  difyr  fydd  y  didd  He  di  weddwyf  &c.  „  r 
h.  Er  dig  ir  dwrdio  ar  dwyn  /  absenwr  (?)  &c.  „  s 
c.  Anerch  wen  geiuwen  ag  weneg  iarlles  &e.  „       t 

203  gwell  ywr  dv  yw  garv  nor  gwyn  drwy  choes  &c.  ,,  « 
h.  ■  gwell  fydd  rrwng  mynydd  a  mayn  i  garv  &c. 

204  Gwna  ddibeu  meinwcn  o  myni  /  gwen  arra    ....         w 
em  liw  eirra  am  lowrri. 

205-6     A  fragment  only  of  the  leaf  left 

207     Pwl  yw  kerdd  pob  oferddyn     ....  x 

yn  dol  ni  wn  ca  dehvy*  Btio  ap  Jen:  ddv 

211  Jr  escob  Dd.  ap  pleddyn  y 

Da  ^awn  fv  fordaf  naf  ni  ferawg     .... 
Gwrda  yn  He  asaf  Jawn  llvosawg*  folo  goch 

213  Bendith  Jho:  goch  yn  llys  Kyffin  .  deon  llanehvy.  z 

Da  yw  bendith  bardd  a  dvw  bondig     .... 
AR  kwrw  hyfaidd  mal  krio  haibg*  folo  goch 


V 


*  These  poems  were  apparently  written  in  this  MS.  by  "  R.  J  "  or  "  A,  R." 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  547 

214  Hir  garn  mursen  gv  hir  gas  liir  hysting  &c.     tiidur  Aled  a 

215  II  od  aetb  atynt  i  Iviulaiii     ....  b 
nid  el  heb  ddGjn  y  dalaith                                   gytto  [       ] 

217       Dydd  dayt  y  gog  serchog  fwyn     ....  c 

dvgwn  y  ferch  deg  fain*  Anon 

221       Y  foryd  erfyd  lid  las     ...     ,  d 

oer  ffos  bell  or  fFowyss  byth*        {ffnn  ap  (udvr  peiilli/n) 

22 1       Ond  hyn  oedd  Kesya  ddyraswaitli  /  kariad  &c.  Anon  e 

b.      Nid  vn  bryd  gwryd  dan  gae  o  arian     ....  / 

nid  vn  gae  esylld  nid  vn  gvsan  William  Jones 

225       Hvniuis  wawd  ddefawd  ddifan  //  Travl  ofer     ....         g 
gv.rotlieb  tec  atteb.  tv,  ac  attad 

b.      Mia  wn  draw  myned  o  nwy     ....  h 

meibion  llew  raon  .  .  Mevrig  .  .  l|vw  .  .  dd:  .  .  Gr: .  .  ni  bv 
wr  well  i  air  ai  allv — unfinished. 

227       koed  trvdion  katerw  ydynt     ....  { 

dev  .  bias  sion  ....  kaer  gai  a  Uwidiarth     .... 
kyugor  a  blaenor  i  blaid  || 

229       kapdenn  powys  wcnn  yssydd  /t 

ovvaia  mab  ssion  .    .    .    .    o  ho'I  fycban    .     .     . 
yw  fyw  i  bydd  ef  ai  bais  Sio7i  Keri 

232      *  «  *  rv  gynt  kaem  ar  goedd     ....  I 

plas  sion  ap  bowel  ....  llwydiarth     .... 
llaw  a  tbroed  machynllaith  rym     #  *   » — unfinished. 

234  gwyrthie  mair  yn  hw  ai  gwerthan     ....  m 
dvw  gwyu  tor  vynn  ewyn  i                                             Anon 

235  Howel  ddewrgryf  hael  ddurgrys  .  .  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  .     .        n 
gvlvn  gyff  a  wn  a  gai  II 

237       A  mau  without  mercy  of  mercy  shall  misse  o 

and  he  shall  have  mercy  yt  mercyfull  is  repeated  nine  times 

239       II   mawr  yw  pwy[sj  dvw  marw  post  [ial]     ....  p 

a  dyro  nef  i  deirn  ialf  tvdvr  aled 

243  Rodiais  trafynais  trwy  fanav  ar  fyd  &c.     .     .         „         „     q 

244  *  *  *  tebig  o  frig  hid  wraidd  &c.  Anon  r 
b.      angyles  vvyt  anes  inion  ddi  wegi  &c.  „      s 

245  hv  wr  moddvs  bir  meddynt     ....  / 
gwelklor  ifor  ddiofal 

ithel  deg  /  wy th  /  elw  /  a  dal 

galw  dynyfed  gild  nefawl     .... 

siankin  .  .  selef  vn  gorff  sylfaen  gwir     .... 

dafydd  ywenydd  difeth 

ar  bob  pwugk  a  wyr  bob  path 

gvtto  yn  i  bais  gowttwm 

A  fed  gwraidd  f'y  yd  oi  gyrwm 

tvdvr  fy  ovvdyr  a  fedai 

athror  gyler/ wyth /erw /ar  gylui     .... 

kroes  o  dyrnas  kyrist  arnvn       SianJcin  [?  Selev]  bri/dydd 

*  These  poems  were  apparently  written  in  this  MS.  by  "  U.  J  "  or  "  A.  R." 
■f  "  Rowch  hwn  im  kyvyrder  Ivan   ap   sion  wyn  /  oddiwrth  lewis  ab  howel  ab 
madoc  "  written  on  the  back  of  the  leaves  forming  pp.  239-244. 


548  PENIARTH  MA.XUSCRIPTS   84-85. 

247  Mar:  Sion  ''  fah  rroessier  fwa  presen  ' 

blin  ydiw  gan  blaenedav     ....  a 

arroi  nef  ir  hwn  aeth  Rys  go}  glyn  dyfrdwy 

251  Pvm    achos    ysydd   i    gadw   ia\chav']    ac    arvav :    vn    yw   h 
gwiievthur  pviodasav  teilwng  //  yr  ail  yw  ytifeddiaeth  &c. 

b.       pont  wen  Ian  goUen  /  gall  /  ymladd  a  Hi     ...     .  c 

dvw  /  diiw  /  kael  gwall  ddiwgwyd*  #  *  Anon 

252  *  *  •  air  angel  syr  gwrngod  4 
Gi'uffvdd  or  Dre  newydd  nod     .... 

Kryf  with  gadarn  ith  farnwyd 

ag  oen  avr  i  ddyn  gwan  wyd     .... 

ymlaen  oil  ag  heb  law  nvdd. 

253  II  O  fonedd  a  diwedd  da     ...     .  e 
lifftenant  j  a  chapden  a  ffen  a  ffont     .... 

ag  evsdvs  wyd  ar  ,gost  sais 

a  ddoetych  di  ni  ddowtia 

a  ddel  oth  law  a  ddaw/n/dda     .... 

dy  ben  yw  pen  ar  bob  p[eth]        gwilim  ap  [P/eu.-]  hen 

254  Mwya  glcndid  yw  kymhessvrwydd  / 
Mwya  tlodi  yw  di  wbod  &c. 

h.       elis  ap  Ric  ap  elis  ap  gr:  llwyd  .  .  .  ap  mred:  or  hob  tc.g 


MS.  85  =  Hen.  297.  The  Poetry  of  Howel  Kii.an  in  thti 
hand  of  Dd:  Kayo,  circa  1553  {see  MS.  84,  p.  107).  Paper;  8J  X  C 
inches;  pages  1-64,  wanting  beginning  and  end;  stained;  in  a  case 
with  856  and  84. 

1       II  Orywedoc  ireidioc    ....  h 

ymhryd  madoc  amrhedydd     .... 
dy  oys  ynn  bymoys  i  bo  Kilan 

3  Mar:  dd:  llwyd :  Nim  tawr  mwyach  trwy  mowyd     ...        i 

i  8''^  ^  gawn  gida  gwynt 
G       lie  da  att  fy  Hew  devynt  k 

oyddyii  ynu  llann  gcdwyn  gynt     .... 

aed  gwenn  yu  vnocd  ai  gwr 

9       Y  ddevfab  hailion  ddifeilch  / 

Ywain   .  .  .   ednyfed  .  .  .  deri  tvdvr  trefor     .... 
o  Rani  fal  Rieni 

12  Koioydd  ley  mod  rrwng  gr:  hanmer  a  rroeser  sion 

y  ddev  gar  fonyddigion  m 

yfj'dd  .  .  .  yn  hwr  y  brenin  hari     .... 
J  rrain  fal  i  bv  hynaif. 

15  3Iol:  edwart  pilstwnn  "  jor  rriioahon." 

edwart  hir  a  dery  tan     ....  » 

yw  tarfv  dros  y  terfyn. 

"gryffy  fychaa  addevddwi  ybier  kowydd  yma"in  oiiginnl  hand. 
Moliant  gryffyddfychan  ap  rrys  ap  Jev:  o  Nannav 
18       Ysta  liydd  chwarevdd  chwyrn     ....  0 

iieth  milwr  dovddwr  ar  dydd 


POiiMS  BY  HOWEL  KILAN'.  549 

21       gwrawl  euw  gwryl  yniawn     ....  //.  Kilun     a 

a  llwyd  ytt  duui  welljiv 

25       Y  gwyr  y  daifv  nvn  aid     ....  b 

gwaif  i  fod  .  .   .  am  geisio  mercli  yin  ga,",  inawr 
Acb  bodd  ywr  ddwyrodd  cvaill. 

28       gryffydd  loawayw  rrvdd  iiu  rrys  ah  Jfan     ....  c 

y  pasc  trifFasc  at  ryffydd 

31  f  del:  tlwyd  fab  gryffydd  or  devddwr 

Davydd  mav  pawb  yn  dofyn  d 

a  dwr  ar  lygaid  pob  dyn     .... 
dy  esgair  a  unair  ynn  iach 

34       Y  gwr  fal  gei  o  warwic     ....  e 

yddoedd  gryffydd  o  ddevddwr     .... 
eled  avr  ar  i  lew  dv 

37       Y  kanv  dv  kowir  i  dal  / 

gr:  .  .  fynaf  o  rys  ap  dd:  ap  ho'U     .... 
ef  a  hoiino  fo  benaiiit  . 

40  f  feibion  Ilmoel  ap  Jfan  fychan  o  foelyrch 

Y  ddav  cryr  ddiareb  (/ 

ou  gwlad  ni  nid  vn  glod  neb     .... 
kedwid  tvw  y  keidwaid  hynn 

4.T  f  syr  gr:  fychan  :  Ymarchoc  blydevoc  blaid     ....  h 

drosod  wr  drwsiad  evraid  . 

47  Mol:  dohdor  dd:  ki/ffin  person  llann  rrayadr  mcistr  II.  gedivyn 
y  gwr  doetb  sy  gariad  ynn     ....  i 

iddo  ai  wisgo  n  esgob 

49  Mol:  rrys  wyr  ednyfed  o  fro  dowyn  a  katrin  o  Ian  egryn 

Mi  a  af  heb  ymofyn     ....  h 

orevro  r  plaat  ar  wyron 

52  Mar:  dd:  o  luydiarth :  ni  bv  fyd  i  neb  o  fon  ....  / 

rryngthvn  yn  vn  yn  ynef 

55       Mol:  gryfydd  "  llin  rrys  ap  dd:  ap  liowel  " 

gwclais  feirdd  yn  dy  galyn     ....  m 

Ai  kred  mae  kowir  ydwyf 

58  etto  :  y  gwr  y  sydd  gae  avr  sorcb     ....  n 

dy  allv  wrth  dy  wliya  Hoivel  Kilan 


Gl   Mol:  JViliam  ap  gryffydd  or  pennryn 

Er  bynn  aross  yr  banner     ....  o 

Haw  grist  i  groisir  Heir  giean  ffi^'^  ^"« 

G4       A  adeilo  bvdoliaetb  &c.    A  fragment  of  7  11.     [Gultor  glynn]  p 

b.       am  ddawnj's  hwylys  haeledd  y  dynion     ....  q 

ym  byll  awch  am  holl  jecbyd  dd:  llwyd 

The  last  leaf  bas  a  hole  in  it  and  a,  damp-stained  place  which  makes  the  text 
imperfect. 


550  PENiARTtt   MANUSCRIPTS   85-86. 

MS.  85  I'nrt  II.  Poetry  and  Proterbs.  Paper;  8fx 6  inches ; 
second  lialf  of  the  xvith  century;  written  by  Jhon  wiliam  ap  Jhon  o 
grvc  Iio'l  (p.  3)  vel  Jhon  ap  Gwilim  o  grvc  kada  (p.  6)  ;  pp.  l-IO, 
•wanting  the  beginning  ;  injured  by  rats  and  at  the  corners;  imperfectly 
sewn ;  in  a  case  with  84. 

1       Rliocsser  sai.s  *  [fab  sion]  #  yd  ossawc  brodir     .     .     .     .a 
o  hergest  onest  ac  o  cinion  sais     .... 
nid  iawn  yn  y  sir  dy  enwi  yn  sais  Ri/s  brychan 

4  Moh  .?  i/ori/ls]  ap  thomas  llwyd  ojrycheinon 

Einon  ap  Gwalchmai  vv  ai  annedd  gynt     ....  b 

ysgrivenydd  o  rysgennydd  ai  garennydd  hyd  gaereinion 

Ho'l  daft 

7       Y  vvn  aelddv  fanwj'l  ddysc     ....  c 

mac  gore  dim  yw  gwr  dv  syr  lewys  devddwr 

9        (dwy  /  gath  ssydd  /  ym  /  a  dav  /  gi  /  dav  /  iwrch  &c.)  Anon   d 

b.        archaf  i  fair  diwair  drem  /  roi  ysbryd  ysbrydawl  ym  &c.  „      e 

10  egor  y  drws  eigr  i  drem     ....  f 
gwiliav  Rif  gwilwyr  RTfain 

11  y  neidr  vain  ar  glain  ar  golvney  Ehed  g 
ac  ir  Rliyd  ar  gonwy     .... 

kael  gwy  yt  watkyn  .  .  .  enaid  talgarth    .... 
gwi^^'  ran  edwart  gwarav  neidr  lewys  y  glyn 

13       aeth  adref  inef  nowfed  na  ddowtieut  &c.  syr  Kys  li 

15  lUn  a  gwrnerlh  a  oeddynt  ddevsaint  henydiawl  yn  y 

Iralhong  ymhowys  Src    See  Bed  Book  of  Hergest,  cols.  102fi-7. 
Eiry  mynydd  gwynt  am  berth     ....  i 

yr  dvw  kyffessa  yn  dda 
TjssiliaTT  rab  brochueel   ysgithroc  agafawdd  yr  EDglynion  hyn  J  gan  wrnerlh 
yn   dyvod   y  grweiraw  y  gred    with   lyweljn    sant    J  gyd   bcDj-diivr  (yin)atrree 
lywelyn  a  gwrnerth 

19-39  A  collection  of  Proverls    arranged  for   the    most    part   in 
alphabetical  order  as  regards  the  initial  letter. 

A  esgynno  ynheyr  ebrwydd  ysyrr :  addrc  yr  Iiydd  ir  Uyn  : 
a  vo  kaled  y  gyngaws  dalied  ar  bob  achaws  .  .  .  ends  : 
trech  a  gais  noc  ageidw:  tuawc  gwell  korawc  no  chybydd  || 

So  ends  p.  38,  and  it  would  seem  that  a  leaf  or  two  have  been  lost  here.    Page  39 
contains  Goreneu. 

[Go]rc  vn  bwyd  bara  ....  ends:  gore  gwaith  vn  dyn 


MS.  86  =  Hen.  166.  Poetry  ;  a  Concord  between  Gwyned, 
PowYS,  and  Deheubarth  ;  the  Eistedvod  of  1524;  the  Book  of 
EoRTUXE  ;  the  DISPOSITION  and  TREATMENT  of  HoESES,  Meblin's 
PROriiECY,  etc.  Paper;  8^  x  6  inches;  svith  century — in  many  hands; 
jiages  43-6,  66-9,  100-3  are  in  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethoc,  and 
pp.  267-8,  291-310  in  that  of  Simwnt  Vychan  ;  320  pages,  some  loose 
and  some  torn  and  defective ;  sewn ;  in  a  case. 

1       Piau  r  adail  p[wyj  ydiw     ....  k 

]fcfan  [llwyd]  ap  ^etian  .  .  .  Barwn  garth  heil[yn]  .  .  . 
hon  ywr  llys  hynaf  or  llwyd— imperfect.   Gwilim  ap  feii:  hen 
3   7  Ho' cl  vychan  :  Penllyn  dir  pwy.n.  llawn  dcwrion  ....     / 
Howel  yn  ben  baylioni  byd  Cffff"-'  Hiraetjwc 


POEJIS   i3Y   VARIOUS  At't'tlOES.  SSl 

6  Jf  Pirs  Gr: — pwyu  y  goi-chest  pen  gyrcliynt     ....  a 

da  fv  daros  dwf  derweii  Jfvw  ap  dd: 

10  Mol:  Sion  Grvffvdd  ap  I'lrs  Gr:  o  'faenol  Macs  ini/naii.' 

benditli  beirdd  a  ffea  keirddiiiid     ....  li 

kan  oes  hedd  kyn  eisie  hwn  Gr:  Iliraethoc 

14  Mar:  Rhys  ap  Kijnfr'u',  ap  Ilohe.rt  "  peiiadvr  tegaingl  " 

Dydd  y  farn  gadaru  heb  gel     ....  c 

k&wn  oi  dir  ddevkan  derwen  lewi/s  mon 

18  Alar:  Si/r  Sion  Filsdwn  kwnysdahl  karn  arfoii 
'  kvras  hollwyr  kaer  dallaivg' 
Oil  0  farw  mae  llifeiriant     ....  d 

Lenw'ir  ail  hwn  yw  rrolant — unfinished. 

20  (gwg  glias  gogvl  glas  gwegil  glav  /  gwen  gwest  &c.)     Anon  e 

21  Mol:  Mastyr  hiitv  Morgan  archiagon  Ty  amlwch  wen. 

Y  Twr  vcliaf  or  Trychant     ....  / 

a  choffa  bwytli  chweffib  ■win  Letvys  Man 

25  Mar:  tomas  ap  rrobert  ap  dd:  o  ddyffryn  clwyd. 

trwm  ini  troe  yma  nos     ....  g 

tros  i  fab  teiioes  a  fo  lewys  ap  edwart 

29  Mol:  Sion  gr: — y  gwr  ar  dysc  goirwir  da     ...     .  h 

dvw  a  ro  i  sion  deiroes  hydd  Anon 

34       Yr  eryr  glwys  orsvyr  glan     ....  i 

aed  ac  o  faint  a  dvc  fo* — ?  unfinished. 

38  Mae  gwr  yn  magv  araith     ....  '  h 
wyrion  jef  ^ *                                     gyrvffvdd  gieraha 

39  Ba  rvw  ddelw  bvr  addolem     ....  I 
yn  vw  enioes  iminav                                           gr:  ap  Jeuan 


42  vyngharw •     ....  m 

vn  enaid  wyrion  ynyr  Tvdr  \_Alcd'\ 

43  J  u-yr  Mon  :  Y  mhob  vrddas  mac  beirddion     ....  n 

Sant  o  wr  val  saint  iorys 
ydoedd  print  meredydd  ap  Rys     .... 
ar  gair  vyth  ir  gwyr  o  von  ]  Gruff:  Hiracthoc 

47       Mae  yn  gwr  mwy  nog  eraill     ....  o 

morys  dynnv  r  mars  d.anad     .... 
gornor  llwyd  gyrnoi  r  lioU  ^aitli  Sion  Ktri 

51  Mol:  Rydderch  up  dauid  o  Lan  ykil 

Pwy  nyn  rrad  pen  aurrydedd     ....  p 

ni  bv  i  gymar  ni  bydd  lewys  ap  edwai-d 

54       Perrow  ori  pren  vrion     ....  q 

Pvm  hwayw  prydain  pvm  broder     .... 
pvm  heryrwy  avr  f o  i  pvm  rrodd  Tvdcr  aled 

59  Mar:  Txidyr  llwyd  ap  Dd:  o  fal  a  las  ymerwig 

Tored  \Y  liif  troed  yr  hain    ....  »■ 

Haw  grist  a  laddodd  hoU  gred  John  ap  howell 

G  1  Mol:  syr  sion  tcyn  person  llan  ykil,  "  am  y  llyn." 

Pwy  n  wr  lien  pen  ar  y  Uv     .     .     .     .  s 

dyrwy  ilaw  yrawg  i  dyrevlio  rhain        Morvs  ap  h'l  ap  f, 


*  sraiiy  of  the  lines  on  pp.  "4-9  and  three  lines  on  p.  42  wnnt  their  endings, 
■f  Anti)g':iph  poem. 


532  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   86. 

66  Mol:  Kndu-aladr  ap  Robert  o  Lanvawr  ym  henllt/n  .  1S3Q  . 

Kadwaladr  bal.adr  beli     ....  a 

a  geidw  chwi  gidach  ewig  *Giuff:  H\iiaethog\ 

69  Mcil:  sion  ap  Firs  ap  grvjfydd  (see  p.  10  above) 

Y  Hew  evrgrys  Haw  dewrgraff    ....  b 

ai  wayw  sgyrion  wise  evraid  lemys  ap  edicart 

73  Mol:  sion  edwarl  aji  IVm;  "u  Iv  hart" 

Pwy  sy  glod  powys  ai  gwledd     ....  c 

evrlHw  yw  r  war  iarU  yr  el  lewys  ap  edwart 

77       Kynfiic  beud[e]vic  divosd     ....  d 

dros  degaingl  drws  diogel     .... 
eryr  trwm  evrer  ytradd  s     n  tlrofor  =  ?  sion  trevor 

81   3Iol:  doctor  elis  ap  rrobert  ap  rrys  "  chwyrn  vslvs 
heddweh  "  o  !f  sir. 
J  trevlfraisc  ddoetor  hael  fron     ....  e 

ac  esgill  avr  a  gwisc  Hen  .  .  .  Uyc  ydwyd    .... 
doetli  yt  eled  wyth  atvn 

deirHan  a  Han  driHon  vn  |  llan  ieistin     .... 
ym  hen  llyu  llan  iwllyn  wych     .... 
siawnsler  wrth  ddoetlider  ath  ddysc     .... 
pa  gomisiwu  .   .  .   heb  heuw  eHs     .... 
kai  air  da  .  .  .  kai  r  gwyr  rrwng  karv  ac  ofn  .... 
i  cliw  chwi  byth  vwch  vwch  boch  gr:  /j[jV]«e[</to](7 

84  Mol:  Toiiias  ap  Risiarl  ap  Howel 

Hwyliaw  ar  waith  heliwr  wyf     ....  / 

Haw  ddvw  ai  katwo  lie  ddel  lewis  ab  edioart 

83  Teg  evraid  gauaid  gwenhavl  /  yw  tegaingl  &c.  Anon  g 

89  f  syr  Tomas :  Troys  dvw  adwyth  trist  ydyw    ...  h 

goch  ydoedd  .  .   .  tori  tai  a  fedrai  fo     .     .     .     . 
karnlleidyr  gwedi  kernllwydo 
ysgatfydd  ysgott  yw  fo     .     .     .     . 
yn  nodd  wrth  fy"  modd  Amen  Syr  dd:  oivain 

92  7  syr  Thomas  ap  Rys  "  bwriai  ddis  y  bore  ddiivsid" 

Drwc  DC   var   drogan  a  fv     .     .     .     .  « 

drycleisiaw  .  .  .  dyna  ysgarm  syr  thomas  goch    .    .    . 
gan  siavad  i  gonsurio  5"'-"  ap  feiian 

05  J  harri  konivy  :  y  Hew  o  stil  Hiwys  doylh     ....  A 

liarri  wyth  ai  hevro  yn  len-ys  ap  Edwart 

\00  Mol:  Mdwaladr  ap  Morys  a  phlas  newydd  y  Voelas.    131,5. 

Pvvy  .  n  .  is  konwy  nis  kwynir     ....  « 

Fowls  ar  waith  plas  hiraethawc     .... 

hyn  vyddocli  yni  veddv  t  Grnff:  Hiraethoc 

101  Y  ferch  wen  fawr  i  chanol    ....  »« 

y  hi  yn  y  modd  hwnw  mwy  U'n  ap  dd:  vychan 

\CQ  f  cydwaladyr :  yn\si\.\-s  o\\  vrw  (hv!  syU     ....  » 

y  mae  koel  heb  ddim  kcd##r 
108       Hv  wr  modd  hir  meddynt  /  gwiw o 

ai  dro  i  mewn  wrth  dri  mawl  || 


♦  Autograph  poem. 


THE   COKCOKi)  BETWEEN  POWys,   GWYNEDD  ETC,  553 

109  Kijffes  TUn  Voel :  gorwac  veddyliav  /  kellweiryss  greday         a 

oferin  lyfav  /  geiriay  gyriad 

trwygyr  vreiu  trigaVawc  K'n  Voel  ap  IL'n  Voelrhon 

112       siankyii  garw  goi-wyu  geiiwir  ...    imperfect.     Sc«  MS.  84  p.     h 
kroes  o  dyrnas  knst  arnvii  ssianldu  hrydijdd 

114  trvgavoc  vrenin  /  wyttri  chyssefin  c 
ag  yn  kyffrediu  dew  in  diwad     .... 

a  bod  yn  ffrowys  ddwyss  ddyssyfiad  ||  (].  38) 

115  Yr  eglvvr  bavn  ar  glayrbais     ....  d 
a  dwg  gwen  o  dy  i  gwr                                       dd:  naiimor 

117       Madyn  ronwyn  ry  enwir     ....  g 

am  i  own  yno  iiuwanwu  Jti/s  goch  or  yri 

120      inair  wenfaoth  mawr  o  wynfyd  f 

mamaeth  i  benaeth  y  byd     .... 

ol  ynol  yw  o  levni  janhin  up  eingon 

124       ssaith  niwyrnawd  wawd  wiwrym  g 

bv  grist  yn  gwynevthvt  byd  gym     .... 

i  ddyn  i  dda  ai  ddiiw  yu  ddic  DolUor  )okn  hetit 

127       elffin  dec  taw  ath  wylo     ....  /t 

daliesin  ir  wy  bellacli*  tallessin 

129      prifardd  kyffredin/y  dwy  fi  i  elffin     .     .     .     .  i 

mi  a  vydda  hyd  dydd  brawd  /  ar  wyneb  [d].aiarawd  „ 

132  Brevddwijd  gyonw  ddv  o  f on— the  original  of  Mostyu  MS.  138. 

Mi  a  bair  terfyn  gelyn  gilblant     ....  k 

a  marfolaeth  heb  gwyn  /  a  drvdanieaetU  heb  newyn . 

133  kerais  vn  ferch  kwrs  yn  fyd     ....  I 
mwy  0  dal  am  i  dylyn 

13G  Pop  irvw  lygad  a  wyl  pop  rvw  galon  a  ocha  pob  rvw  dafod  a 

fydd  chwerw mil  o  vylynyddoedd  i  bydd  satan  yn  rrwym  yn 

y  poenav ends :  och  och  medd  y  proffwyt  nad  ofynliewch 

melldith  duw  ac  nachyredir  ]ddaw  ef  a  ddywait  megis— ucfiaisbcd. 

138  Euglyn  i'r  yaX. 

139  ILi/ma  ddechyre  llyfyr  viarclnoriaelh  Sfc. — March  gwiiiav 
mwng  felyn  goray  or  holl  liwiav  ar  farcli  March  Eudd  nesaf  ir 
gorav  &c.  ends  icilh  receipts  for  various  horse  troubles. 

150  y  mab  a  aner  dan  yrarwydd  yniyharen  stf  yw  hyny  n  haner 
Mis  mowyth  \_sic\  i  haner  ebrill  ym  drawr  mawr  fydd  ac  ui  bydd 
kywaethoc  iewn  byth  na  thylawd  iewn  &c. — end  wanting. 

See  p,  187  below. 

161  Y  gydvod  hon  a  tcnuetlibwyd  rrwng  ymrafaelion  loledydd 
nid  amgen  powys  gwynedd  dehavbartli  yn  y  vied  vlwyddyn  tccdi 
ryfel  oicen  ap  gruff:  oedran  hrist  M  cccc  ac  xx]  y  ddwy  riynedd 
gynta  o  vrenhiniaetli  hari  pymcd 

Y  Biaint  ychaf  yw  bod  yn  pen  kenedl  ac  yn  ben  kyfarch  y  wlad  y 
neb  a  geisio  y  braint  hwnw  rraid  vydd  iddo  vod  deiliad  a  deilied  ar  i 
dir  yn  talv  iddo  rent  a  chyllid  a  gwasaneth  or  tir  gwaith  a  thailh 
arrebyched  o  ariant  yn  ol  irent  ac  anregion  yn  tair  gwyl  arbenic  ac  os 
marw  vydd  y  deiliad  hwnw  heb  wneythyr  i  lyfodraeth  megis  ymgolli 
ehvn  yr  vchelwr  a  gaift'  i  holl  da  yn  sied  ir  vchelwr  kans  iii  chaifE 

*  Elffiu's  Consolation  -with  some  additional  lines  from  Hancs  Taliesin. 
y  98430.  B 


554  PENUilTH  MANtfSCEIPT   8b*. 

yr  arglwydd  vreinio  ar  vab  aillt  vchelwr  am  ddim  oud  am  draia  a 
lledrad wrth  y  gyfraith  gyfEredin  o  loegr  i  gorf'yrid  i  bob  arg- 
lwydd eisde  ar  waith  i  dad  ont  powys  ni  cheir  ym  howys  ont  rrekor 
[=  ?  record]  y  llyfre  ac  am  byny  mae  y  ddiareb  yu  dwedyd  a  ofyno  cyf- 
rnith  gwilied  &c.  .  .  .  ends  :  iLyma  y  prisie  a  wnaelbbwyd  yn  gydvod 
hon  ar  bob  a[n]ifail  nid  amgen  am  varch  dan  dwngv  y  perchen 
ebvnan  hyd  yn  x'  ac  o  hyny  allan  dav  gymydoc  gyd  ac  ef  .  .  .  eidion 
pedeir  blwydd  x»  eidion  Teir  blwydd  vi'  viii'i  eidion  dwyflwy dd  v'  viij"' 
eidion  blwydd  nj'  mi'i  .  .  .  pris  dafad  xv]^  i  lioen  vn]''  y  gwlan  luj^ 
y  blith  1]''  gwetyr  oi  blwydd  allan  i]^  .  .  .  am  gleddav  vn  Haw  nf  in)* 
am  gledde  dwyddwylo  v]'  vu]'*  .  .  .  bwa  yw  xv)''  saeth  i^  .  .  .  pwy 
bynac  a  ladder  or  wlad  ir  Hall  bod  xl"  obris  arno  oniellir  i  wadv  ac  o 
gellir  i  wadv  Uw  ccc  o  wyr  a  hefyd  pwy  bynac  a  wnel  kyrch  or  wlad 
ir  Hall  alladd  gwyr  o  honvnt  yn  y  kyrch  liwnw  dangos  or  kapden 
lofyrydd  am  y  gwyr  hyny  dan  gy vyraith  nev  ateb  i  hvnan  a  hevyd  o 
lleddir  vn  or  kyrchwyr  na  bo  na  thai  na  iawn  am  dano  a  hefyd  o  disgiu 
lladd  gwr  ai  genedl  mewn  tir  o  gydvod  bod  ar  erbynwryr  alanashono 
ateb  ir  gwyr  o  gydvod  oi  ran  herwydd  i  karenydd  a  bed  ar  yr  erbynwr 
hwnw  anvou  ri'ybydd  at  y  keraint  hyny  ofewn  15  diwrnod  i  bias  yr 
orsedd  ac  oni  ddont  wrth  hyny  i  bod  yn  golledic  oi  ran  ac  velly  y 
terfyna 

187  di/ma  lyfyr  a  elwir  ILyfyb  Natvkieth  eraill  ai  geilio 
JLyfyr  y  dynghedfen  /  Pa  fah  hynag  ancr  ne  ferch  o  feum  y 
devddeg  artcydd  ai  haffo  darllenedy  llyfyr  hivn  Jysbysv  \  Jddief  a 
ddichion  ddatkan  iddo  J  gerddcd  ai  ddamwain  ai  hoedl  &c. 

Y  mab  aner  dan  arwydd  y  myharen  syf  y w  hyny  o  taner  mawrth  ^ 
banner  ebrill  ym  drawr  mawr  fydd  ag  ni  fydd  kywaethoc  fyth  /  na 
thlawd  ]fawn  ag  ef  a  Eodia  oi  wlad  ^  hvn  a  da  a  gaiff  ....  ends: 
y  mab  anor  dan  arwydd  y  pysc  syf  yw  hyny  o  haner  chwefrol  hyd 
haner  roawrlh  &c.     See  p.  1,50  above. 

The  lower  hah-es  of  the  folios  paged  187-8  and  223-4  are  torn  out  so  that  the 
preface  is  imperfect  aud  the  end  wanting.  The  outer  edges  of  this  tract  are 
ragged  and  the  text  is  occasionally  defective.  "  Beniamin  Yeuan  sydd  *  gnaud 
my  fi  sydd  testoleth  Robert  lloyd  "  (p.  203)  :   "  edwart  ap  tomas  "  (p.  206,  &c.). 

This  tract  is  evidently  a  translation  of  an  astrological  -work  bearing 
some  such  title  as  Ars  de  nativilale  puerorum  et  puellarum  or  T/ie 
Book  of  Fortune.     Cf.  MS.  Ashmole  343  in  the  Bodleian  Library. 

225-6  A  fragment  of  a  leaf. 

227  The  Eistedvod  of  1524. 

227  A  copy  of  the  proclamation  of  the  Eisteitvod  of  152 J,  and  oj 
the  "  Stattcte  of  Gr:  ap  Kynan."  Bid  ysbys  )  bawb  o  voneddigion 
a  ehyffredin  vod  eisteddva  ar  wyr  wrth  gerdd  tavod  a  thant  o  vewn 
Tre  gayrwys  yn  Sir  y  fiiynt  yr  xx  dydd  o  vis  gorffena  y  vymthegved 
vlwyddyn  o  goronedigaeth  Harri  wythved  /  O  Rym  comyssivvn  a 
oedd  "j  Syr  Wyllia?«  gruff  Marchoc  vrddol  Siambyrlen  gwynedd  a 
Syr  Eoger  salusburi  ystiwart  dynbych  ac  eraill  drwy  bersenol 
gyngor  Gr;  ap  ^euan  gwr  bonheddic  a  thvdyr  aled  bardd  kadeirioc  / 
A  llawer  o  voneddigion  a  doethion  eraill  /  Er  gwnevthvr  ordyr  a 
llywodraeth  ar  gerddwyr  ac  ar  gylvyddyd  Nid  amgen  jf  gadarnhay 
a  chonffyrmio  y  penkeirddiaidd  ar  sawl  a  gafas  gradd  yn  y  blaen  ac  i 
Eaddio  y  sawl  ai  haeddo  ac  i  roddi  ysbas  i  eraill  i  ddyscv  ac  i  vyvyrio 
yn  nesaf  i  galler  wrth  gydwybod  ac  wrth  hen  ystatvs  Gruff  ap 
kynan 

ILyma  y  ssawl  y  maent  rydd  vddyn  glera  gwr  wrth  gerdd  anatys  er 

na   bo  gradd  iddo  megis  gwr   dall  dysgybl  ysbas ends: 

Eodd  dysgybl  dysgyblaidd  o  brydydd  am  )  gowyc\d  nev  i  owdwl 


BOOK   OF  FORTUNE,   EISTEUDVOD   1524   ETC.  555 

iif  iDj^Kwrs  klera  val  y  gwyr  wrtli  gGi-d[cl]  daiit  or  radd  lionno 
ac  velly  i  Tervyna  hyn  o  ordyr  &c.  quod  Thomas  ap  IFn 

235   Y ddifregivawd  ne  talaith  kerdd  ne  owdl  giradawc  sant. 

Gorvchel  dduw  a  weddia     ....  a 

ai-  a  ddigonais  /  ac  a  fyddyliais  /  ac  a  dreitliais  /  o  vvirdralia. 

242  Dowaid  hyn  o  mofyn  mwyfwy  siou  Wiliams     ....     6 
heb  ffydd  heb  grefydd  heb  grist  Anon 

243  difalais  y  doedias  myn  duw  /  em  ddiwair  &c.  „       c 

244  prydriddion  purion  arod  a  glwaf  &c.  „       d 

255  The  Prophesie  of  Merlynvs  Abrosius.  Vortigem 
king  of  the  Bryttaynrs  I  Gortheyrn  GorthcBav  siltinge  vpon  the 
bancke  of  the  drawer  (Scoped  /  Lake)  poole  /  two  draggons  did 
arise  /  one  whyte  &  one  Redd  /  and  a  fierce  fightinge  was  betwecne 
them  ....  ends:  and  after  Iiym  shall  the  Bore  of  Cornwall  come  / 
and  ho  shall  swallowe  them  all  /  .  .  .  and  when  it  was  certayne  ' 
that  they  wear  come  /  all  the  Bryttaynes  congregated  themselves 
fourthwith  to  Come  vnto  Embris  &  subiected  themselves  vnto 
liym  /  .  /  . 

263  When  gostly  vnkyndnes  in  a  well  shalbe  wrought*  &c. 

26,5  II  shall  shere  j"  ffetloke  iij  s''  partes  y™  shall  the  pwer  of 
Engloiid*  &c. 

207  Nevadd  howel  hygel  hegl  &c.                                 tvdvr  ddall  e 

b.  Eych  gnych  wrych  wlych  nych  drych  drist  &c.       Itassnodin  f 

c.  Vnic  dyrn  trais  dilwyrn  trwssgl  &c.     trahayarn  b.  mawr  g 

d.  Kywch  yw  dalw  ki  chwydalwn  .  .  koch  y  delyn  h 

prydydd  brevan 

268       Eajadr  [Gwy]  oergri  kadr  ar  grvkiedav  bach  ....  i 

kwys  devgvr  ir  kostogion  dd;  y  koed. 

269f     drycha  gwyr  i  edrych  gwin     ....  k 

[  ]  a  roddo  duw  gwyn  Deio  ap  Jeuan  dii 

27 If     Y  mae  aelwyd  ymaelawr     ....  I 

oes  win  i  [^euan]  vab  deikws  hael  Yivain  ap  ll'n  moel 
274       Sivioc  wy  siartyr  ai  gofyn     ....  m 

arch  gwn  am  y  march  gwinav  Ow:  ap  ll'n  moel 

278       Y  vvn  a  gaid  vwyna  i  gwedd  n 

ral  y  llvwch  ar  vol  llechwedd     .... 

vynewis  gael  venioes  gwen  Sion  Keri 

281  Jmorysgoch:  Mae  yngo  gledd  ymwng  gwlad  ....  o 

tec  yw  honsel  yr  eleyrch     .... 
He  i  diolcli  llevad  owain  Owain  ap  ll'n  mod 

284  f  dd:  milllvn  :  Y  Hew  vn  gorfF  lleon  gynt     ....  ^; 

dyn  a  meirch  yn  donav  mor  ||  (i.  56) 

287        II  llwyn  iyfangk  lawn  afael     ....  q 

llyna  ichael  llawenach  wyf  Sion  Keri 

291  Mar:  Ilowel  ap  John  ap  dd:  ap  ithel 

Y  groc  welioc  aflawen  :  in  troist     ....  r 

i  ynnill  y  gras  yn  Haw  y  groc  Gr:  Hiraethoc 


*  These  are  the  oiigiuals  of  Mostjn  MS.  133,  pp.  463  and  <156. 
f  The  top  halves  of  pages  269-272  are  torn  out  and  missing. 

B   2 


556  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS   8  6*7. 

297*  J  Wiliam  ap  Howel  ap  Sion  or  Yskeiviog,  ffli/nf 

Ty  Eissac  gynt  twyssoc  hael     ....  a 

Oed  hynach  yt  dy  hvnan  Gi-:  Hiraethoc 

305       Mae  g  [  j  b 

llyma  lie  bv  /r/  gwyrda  gynt  (1-7) 
llan  dvdocli  lie  uid  ydynt  .... 
i  dvchan  at  Tydeclio  Anon 

308       Dewi  kynn  deni  kawu  ordeiiiiaw   :  mann  c 

myniw  ith  weddiaw     .... 
pob  tvedd  pawb  at  ddewi  Dd:  Nanmor 

313       II  Rrwymodd  a  rrannodd  bob  Rrann     ....  d 

7r  Tyrav  a  Ro  Teiroes  [32  11.]       Jeuan  ap  Ho'l  sswrdwal 

814  f  ivladys  ddv :  Am  ryw  waith  avr  myr  a  thys     .     .     .    .     e 
Aed  duw  a  gwenn  at  i  gwr  Ho'l  dd:  ap  Jcv:  ap  Rys 

316  Sal  Rrygl  yn  seiliaw  Rraglan  &c,  4  lines  only  / 

317  II    *  *  does  nef  ar  ddayaren     ....  g 
o  daw  Rag  bir  drigaw  hwna   [12  11.]  Ho'l  dd:  ap  Jev:  Rrys 

h.  J  lijs  hachelldref :  Mab  kadr  kydwaladr  keidw  heolydd  hael ...  A 
dy  glod  [Dd:]  aeth  dros  y  gwledydd        ssypyn  hyfeiliog 

320       Mab  nonn  or  gaer  gronn  yw  r  gras  ir*  *  *  i 

ssyr  davydd  ap  tomas     .... 
vy  moethav  n  vymyw  weilhian  jj  (I.  16) 


MS.  87  =  feu.  299.  PoETES".  Paper ;  8  x  5|  inches  ;  316  pages; 
first  quarter  of  tho  xviitli  century ;  sewn  and  in  a  case. 

The  coudition  of  this  MS.  is  not  good,  though  less  than  a  dozen  leaves  are 
defective.  Many  folios  have  been  cut  out.  The  writing  is  faint  in  some  places. 
There  are  several  hands,  and  a  few  fragmentary  entries. 

This  MS.  is  marked  "  M.  10*''  Llyfr  ysgrifen  "  in  the  hand  of  Wm.  Wynn. 

1  A  fragment  of  a  Cywyd:  ending : 

Y  b6n  yr  haelion  ai  rhydd  R.  Kyffin  h 

2  edyn  braw  klav  /  n  /  dwyn  brig  klod  &c.   (6  lines  only)       ' 

3  gwae  hoU  ddyfEryn  klaerwynn  klw[yd]     ....  m 
kais  i  gwaetha  kwsg  weithian                      Owain  gwynedd 

10  y  fowr  glod  barod  a  bvrant  oil  byth  &c.  Anon  n 

11  Marwnad  Sion  Tadur  (fragmentary') 

II  ni  wyr  neb  ni  chydnebydd     ....  0 

drych  yw  edrych  yna  i  waith  || 

15       Y  lien  yn  wyd  iach     ....  p 

a  fierson  .  .  Uann  vrfvl  .  .  a  masdr  .  .  o  art  .  .  .  . 
diwacl  ffair  dann  dalv  i  ffwyth  gr:  hafren 

1 9  olfyr  ap  tomas :  Y  ddarn  od  wych  ddwrn  waiw  dvr  ...       ? 
yt  i  gloi  avr  at  y  glin  mathe  ap  ll'n  goch 

*  Pages  291-310  (which  are  in  the  autograph  of  Simwut  Vychan)  are  deranged 
ftiid  should  run  thus  201-8,  303-6,  299-300,  307-10,  301-2,  31 1,  &c.  Pages  313- 
20  ate  earlier  (C(V(.a  1650)  and  slightly  imperfect.  They  contain  poems  numbered 
respectively*  [8],  9,  10  *  *  [22],  23,24*  ,  and  thus  want  beginning,  middle  and 
end. 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  557 

22      Y  gwr  digabl  gwridowgvyn     ....  a 

del  yrddas  i  dylerddig  |  i  rys     .... 
dyw  fo  Kwydd  yw  dyfvr  hawg  fiion  Keri 

26       Mastr  grvffydd  ofydd  ail  i  ifor  hael     ....  b 

dewis  avr  graff  waed  wyd  syr  gryffydd  gr:  hafren 

28  J  dd:  llwyd:  y  miier  glan  am  avr  i  gler     ....  c 

ir  wyneb  ar  o  einioes  ifan  hlywcdog 

32  f  tomas  mah  olfir :  gwae  ni  y  beirdd  gwyno  bod  ....  d 

ir  nvdd  aed  ir  nevadd  wen  sioti  ifans 

34  Jrysap  rrisinrt :  Y  Hew  dewr  byw  gwyllt  ir  balch  ....    e 
del  ich  rran  a  diolch  rrys  gr:  hafren 

39      awsd  y  lias  ynghasdell  i     ,     .     .     .  / 

kawn  vsdvs  or  kinasdiaid  gvtor  glyn 

41       herwydd  nad  wyf  hoiw  nwyf  haint     ....  g 

pwyth  hwnn  y  peth  a  henwai  «''  morys  gwyn  o  L.  gadfan 

A1       syr  sion  ail  sieron  Iwys  eiriav  da  y  w  /  r  /  iaitli  ....  h 

nod  diwyd  siars  hael  onid  wyd  syr  sion  [ifans]     gr:  liafren- 

45  f  owain  fychan  o  Lwydiarth 

y  dewr  galawnt  avr  goler     ....  i 

ddwy  oes  a  gatwo  /  r  /  ddev  wr  sion  moioddioy 

60       Y  keiliog  hardd  mal  klog  koed     ....  h 

pvr  yw  llais  y  prior  llwyd 

a  gwawdydd  mewn  gwydd  ydwyd     .... 

yn  kvfreino  kyfronydd  o.  g  [?  ow;  gwynedd  ] 

54  7  syr  rolant  ah  risiart 

yn  i  hoew  fraint  an  hyfryd     ....  I 

nid  addas  niwed  iddo  owain  gwynedd 

58  f  Lanfyllin  :  Y  dref  hael  dyrfa  hylwydd     ....  m 

dawn  mawr  fendith  ddvw  1 1^  j  i  mysg  sion  moteddwy 

62  y  ddvw  :  kyn  tyfv  bvdd  kyntaf  bod     ....  n 

vcho  er  dim  ni  charo  di  owen  gwynedd 

66  y  dynion  ar  daionni     ....  o 
hap  ir  bain  ymhob  rrinwedd  (1.  20)  || 

67  II  *  *  tlwyth  brevlwyth  da  i  braint     ....  p 
rrwydd  iawn  fyth  rryw  yddyn  fed  ||  (40  linos  in  all) 

69  J  sion  hyws  ^liaes  y  pandv 

y  gwr  enwog  ai  rinwedd     ....  q 

gyfion  elw  gofyn  eilwaith  dd:  ab  dd:  llwyd 

73  f  dd:  llwyd :  pwy  yw  /r/  eryr  pvr  iraidd     ....  r 

llaw  ddvw  y  rrawg  llwyddo  hael  o.  g 

77  f  grvffydd  tvw  o  Ros  y  garreg 

rranai  ddvw  gwyn  rrinwedd  gwych     ....  * 

bo  i  heinioes  bvm[o]es  gyn  bedd  „ 

81  A  fragment  (7  lines)  of  an  Elegy  ending  : 

vfvdd  hael  nefoedd  i  hwnn  Anon    t 

b  Mar:  ifan  Ihcyd  :  taer  wyd  ange  trwy  dyuged     ...  zt 

i  tario  i  blant  ai  wyrion  WHiam  llyn 

85  J  rrys  wynn :  y  karw  drvd  ywch  keirw  ai  drem     ...        v 
eirian  od  vt'ien  ydyw  (i.  82)  || 


658  PENIA.ETH  MANUSCRIPT  87. 

89  A  fragment  {^  lines)  of  a  CywyCt  ending  : 

a  gei  /  n  /  dal  gwiw  hynod  wr  tomas  penn  llyn  a 

h  Moliant  masdr  risiart  morgan  person  llan  vylling 

y  lien  yw  lys  llawn  i  wledd     ....  J 

enw  disvgl  yn  oed  siagob  rrys  kain 

93  Mar:  dafydd  llwyd  ah  dafydd  "  ynghor  Ian  wddyn  " 

y  byd  oil  be  dvallem     ....  c 

i  gael  ef  o  nef  yn  ol  Anon 

99  /)•  brithyll :  y  gwr  gemog  ar  gymell     ....  d 

mogel  ...  0  wank  Jr  bwyd  lynkv  /  r  /  bach     .     .     . 
i  ni  edwart  [wjnn]  yn  oediawg  ifan  hhjxoedog 

101  J  Jesu  :  pwy  sy  benn  yn  pasio  byd     ....  e 

yn  fab  dvw  yn  ddvw  yn  ddyn  sion  y  hent 

104  Mar:  Gr:  ap  hvw  ap  dafydd  o  TLan  fyllin 

y  byd  oei'odd  bedeiroes     ....  / 

ii  rro  oes  hir  i  rrai  sydd  ow:  gwynedd 

Dwy  far:  i  Cathrin  morris  gwraig  Ow:  Fyclian  o  Lwydiarth 
108       byr  fyd  anhyfryd  yw  hwnn     .     ,     .     ,  g 

ddvw  1  hvn  dda  y\f  henaid  morvs  berwyn 

11.3       mae  nat  trwm  in  tir  yma     ....  h 

yn  freiniol  nef  if  enaid  hvw  mach\_n'\o 

J12         (dos  ar  fvwch  ddv  gvwch  dda  gv  Uiw  manod  &c.)  Anon    i 

117  Mol:  hvw  morvs,  "  baili  ydwyd"  '^ ymro  oswallt" 

da  i  gwnaeth  di  ogann  wr     ....  k 

a  wnelo  dvw  hvw  yn  hir  rrys  kain 

121  Mar:  Morvs  fab  mredydd  o  Lorati 

y  gwr  addfwyn  gwreiddfawT     ....  / 

a  chann  oes  ywch  hwy  no  saint  „ 

1 26  Moliant  hoicel  amhadog  ap  ierwerth 

mae  gwr  ar  y  graig  arian     ....  m 

am  hoedl  hovvel  amhadog  givilim  ap  ievan  hen 

129   Wmffre  kinasdr :  mae  aerwy  gwyn  am  warr  gwr  ...  n 

ych  vrddol  fych  ir  ddol  fawr 

131  (rrodi  n  echwynion  ai  chwaneg  medrvs     ....  o 
tann  leder  tynner  genn  ti)                                             Anon 

132  ond  rryfedd  ymhob  p 

ar  ol  i  wraig  reiol  ryw  „ 

133  Yr  haelion  :  yr  dynion  doethion  yw  dydd     ....  q 

ni  all  ifan  .  .  .  ab  ifan  fyw  heb  yfed     .... 
ddwyn  klod  yr  hyddod  ai  hoes  John  Jfans 

137  ILan  ymowddwy :  Y  dyn  ar  gerdd  dyner  gall     ....       r 
mae  /  r  /  glod  fwy  mowddwy  ai  uiedd  sion  ifans 

141  II  A  fragment  {/^  lines)  ending ; 

i'ath  Iwfer  in  amser  ni  morvs  bertoyn  s 

b        od  wyd  glaf  archaf  eirchiad  ir  vn  dvw     ....  t 

a  byw  ywch  awr  eboch  i  Anon 

142  Items  in  the  pedigrees  of  Risiart  Fyclian  and  Ow.  byner.  u 

143  3far:  ifan  ab  dafvdd  o  gaer  eitiion 

mae  nad  trwm  in  tir  yraa     ....  ^ 

yn  fyw  i  fan  i  nefoedd  Jon  ifans 


POETRY  BY  VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  569 

147  Moliant  masdr  arthvr  prys 

Y  kavw  ffyif  ar  korff  hir  fawr     ....  a 
i  gadw  pawb  i  gyd  yw  pwyll  1.  9o  || 

151  II yr  VII  dvll  i  kai  /r/  hen  daid     .     .     .     ,  b 
iesv  yn  navvdd  i  sion  wyn                                 risiart  owain 

152  yr  hydd  glvvys  ir  heddiw  glan     ....  c 
.  .  sion  iarll  hvw  sae  .  .  ,  auedd  llann  drinio     .     .     . 

ith  diroedd  wyth  oed  eryr  ifan  heiliarth 

155  Jdir Melwern  "  llety  /  r  / moliant "  a "ffrwytli  sir  amwythig" 

Y  wlad  onesd  Iv  dynion     ....  d 
krisd  enwog  ki'oesa  i  dynon                                   rrys  hain 

158  jf  masdr  rissiart  pvw  o  Ros  y  garreg 

y  gwr  o  folt  y  gwyr  fv     .     •     .     ,  e 

dvw  ai  kynydd  dy  kenyd  owai?i  gtoynedd 

163  Marwnad  Morgan  Sion  o  Fotoddtvy 

och  anajD  afiach  enyd     ....  / 

yw  enaid  ef  nef  yn  iach 

IG7  Mar:  Reinalld  ^'  aer  ffrawnsys  "  o  Dal  y  hont. 

och  gwae  r  /  byd  vwch  gyriav  bodd     ....  g 

da  dvw  iw  enaid  a  dal  ||  i.  80 
171  Mar:  robart  fab  dafydd  ab  siankin  ofochnant 

dvw  aroes  i  bawb  dros  y  byd     ,     ,     .     ,  A 

a  rroi  oes  hir  ir  rrai  sydd  || 

175  Mar:  robart  ab  ievan  ab  otven 

Mae  oea  drisd  ymhowys  draw     ....  i 

naf  vnion  nef  yw  enaid  sion  jffans 

178  Moliant  masdr  tomas  powel  "  tierth  plivy  hirnant  " 

Y  lien  dewr  braisg  llawn  dir  brav     ....  It 
yu  hirnant  mochnant  amen                                       sion  kain 

183  Mol:  andrew  ag  edmwnt,  davfab  Glan  Tanad 

Y  ddav  Ian  a  ddilynir     ....  I 
ir  ddav  siwr  ddwy  oes  eryr                                 John  Evans 

187  /  Wiliam  wyn  aer  Moelyrch 

y  ty  a  ffob  kymry  ai  kyrch     ....  m 

am  ych  rhodd  yma  ich  rhan  „         „ 

191   J  mathav  herbart :  Mae  vn  rrydain  mewn  rrediad  ...  n 

dvw  /n/  i  rann  dyna  rinwedd  oiv; gicynedd 

195  /  s'Rich:  Herbert :  gwent  yn  gwbl  gnot  yvf  /  n  /  gobaith  .  .  .  o 
ond  dy  glaini  o  went  i  glwyd  hvtc  arwysdl 

198  J  Morys fychann :  di  ryfedd  yw  darofyn     ....  jt 

ni  bo  /  r  /  bryn  eb  wr  breiniol  oio:  gunjnedd 

203  J  Rohart  ab  Jevan  ab  owen 

Kaer  einion  gwae  /r/  hon  yr  hawg     ....  q 

naf  vnion  nef  iw  enaid  ||  1,  78. 

207       y  naf  llowydd  nef  Uawen     ....  r 

a  dod  i  mi  dvw  dy  nawdd  Jhon  Evans 

212  Mar:  sion  vychan  Mae  rowan  gwyn  marw  vngwr  ....  s 

ssion  ai  fab  sy  yn  i  fedd  Anon 

213  f  Wm:  Prys:  y  dyn  a  gaid  yn  y  gosd     ....  t 

Haw  ddvvv  wiliara  llei  ddelych  risiart ffylib 


560  PENURTH  MANUSCRIPT 

218  The  beginning  of  Huw  ab  Owen's  elegy  : 

Od  aeth  livw  mae  /  n  adwyth  hjfn  <fce.  a 

219  J  Dd:  sions,  aer  wmffrav  ''  awdwr  glan"  "o  iach  deio  fyclian." 

y  Hew  mwynaidd  lie  mynocU     .     ,     ,     ,  6 

byd  orav  ywch  bcdair  oes  John  Evans 

223  Mar:  Dd:  ab  if  an  ab  Gr: 

troes  garw  nad  trais  ag  oirni     ....  c 

a  rroi  oes  hir  ir  rrai  sydd  rrys  Itain 

227  A  fragment  (4  lines)  ending  : 

da  jw  I  V I  heddwch  clvw  ai  rroddo  Owen  gwynedd  d 

b,  J  Ho:  fychan  :  eryr  at  waed  ririt  henn     ....  e 

ich  byw  /  n  /  benn  ych  bon  banog  hvw  arwysdl 

2.10  ^  iion  herbart :  dvw  /  n  /  dy  bart  ydyn  di  boeth  ....  / 

dy  tifedd  dvw  ai  tyfo  „         „ 

333  7  Edwart  ap  Sion  ap  Syr  Risiart  "  waed  herbart  " 
0  "  hvyth  goctmor." 

dvall  i  bum  dvll  y  byd     ....  g 

dvw  /  n  /  i  rann  dyiia  rinwedd  Ow:  gwynedd 

237   Mar:  Morgan  "fab  Dafydd  o  fredyddfrig"  o  gaereinion. 

Mae  oos  drisd  ymhovvys  draw     ....  /( 

a  rroi  oes  iiir  ir  liai  sydd  Anon 

24 1  Mol:  hoioel  ab  gryffvdd  ap  dd: 

y  gvfr  dewr  braisg  ar  dorr  bron     ....  i 

eithr  a  gwanvd  itli  ergydiwn  „ 

2-15  Mar:  Mredydd  ab  Gryffydd  (?  o  Ian  wrin) 

dv  oil  yw  dydd  y  llevad     ....  h 

i  nofio  /r/  tir  nef  ir  tad 

249  ^  dd:  person  Darowen,  Mallwyd,  a  Mowddwy 

II  y  wlad  ouesd  Iv  dynion     ....  I 

gwlad  felvs  a  glod  folir  |  Mallwyd     .... 

wych  dylwyth  a  fo  ich  dylyn  „ 

254  kymrwch  a  siriwch  eb  sori  dafydd  &c.  &c.  „      m 

255  Marwnad  Elin  verch  tomas  ag  wyr  ifann 

dvw  aoes  i  bawb  dros  y  byd     ....  n 

an  liireth  mawr  in  hoiri 

drigien  oes  a  drig  in  ni  „ 

259  Moliant  Morvs  mob  Hoioel  derfel 

pa  ryfedd  hyn  pvr  fodd  hael     ....  o 

iesv  mawr  rroed  oes  morys  sion  Mywedog 

263  Mar:  Cydwaladr  "fab  rrobart  ai  ddart  o  ddvr." 

diwin  yw  'ysdad  einios  dyn     ....  p 

lie  da  i  fraint  yw  Haw  dvw  fry 

267  Marwnad  Elis  ap  Hoioel  "  tori  ateg  tir  evtyn." 

dwyn  yell  bon  or  rrych  ben  rraith  dwy  wynedd  ...  q 

dwr  dilivv  ydywr  dalaith  Oio:  gwynedd 

270  hireth  ag  aletli  gwelir  im  hanedd  &c.  Anon  r 

271  Mar:  Howel  ap  rrys  ofochnant 

pann  dreier  ynfyd     ....  « 

bael  naf  howel  i  nefoedd  rrys  hain 

274       Anarch  robart  ai  barti  drigeinwaith     ....  t 

eb  pryder  nol  priodas 


POETRY,   DICTA  CATONIS  ETC.  561 

273  Moliant  piers  llioyd  ah- Hoi  0  llan  havon 

Y  gwr  a  dyf  gair  i  dad     ....  a 

na  bo  dy  war  heb  i  dwyn  *0w:  gwynedd 

279  f  Hvw  moria  ap  feu:  ap  Rys  0  Gefnhir  yn  ILanrhaiadr 

Pwv  yw  r  vn  Hew  pvr  iownllwvtb     ....  b 

yng  hefuir  bon  hir  /  n  /  hwn  *jfett:  llavar 

283  Mar:  Dd:  aer  IVm:  llwyd  0  Fochnant, 

Dvw  nefoedd  dawn  i  ofyn     ....  c 

wnfyd  avr  a  nef  yw  dad  *Ro:  Kyjffin 

288  Meneginieth  march  rag  y  klyfyri  .  &c.  d 

289  Moliant  hvw  ah  dd:  o  Lanfyllin 

Hew  innion  Hawenwych     ....  e 

a  mwy  ar  hvw  ym  ai  rhydd  |j  *Anon 

293      y  Hwyii  ivedd  Hawn  evraid     ....  f 

gwrol  a  hael  a  gerir 

ar  gwr  awna  /  r  /  gair  yn  wir     .... 
kymorth  y  beirdd  dros  wiHam  penllynn 

297       y  dyn  ar  gerdd  dyner  gall     ....  g 

dos  i  lann  drillo  ,  .  dos  ifan  .  .  acherdd  fwyn     .     .     . 
a  chardda  i  glera  pob  gwlad     .... 
is  [dy  sc]il  was  dv  golew  (|  Anon 

301   Cowydd  march  :  o  fon  pren  iv  /  n  /  nhop  rrhod     ....    A 
kynn  arch  am  i  farch  a  fo  Anon. 

306  A  fragment  of  a  cywydd.  t 

307  Mar:  niklus  ap  tomas — imperfect 

mae  nad  trwm  ia  tir  yma     ....  k 

a  rroi  oes  hir  ir  rhai  sydd 

31 1  Marwnad  Reinalld  ab  ifan  ab  howel — imperfect 

y  gwr  oedd  a  gair  ***#.,..  I 

yn  iach  i  bawb  ywch  y  bedd  jffan  Uafar 

315-6   This  leaf  and  many  lines  are  imperfect  and  the  end  wanting. 

*  *  »  r  yw  dwyfron  p*  *  »  *  m 

pven  hen  ai  dop  »  *  *  *  &c. 


MS.  88  =  Hen.  244.  Dicta  Catonis,  theological  tracts,  and 
Poetry.  Paper  j  8^  x  6J  inches;  latter  half  of  the  xviith  century; 
30  pages ;  sewn  and  covered  by  an  old  vellum  page;  with  MS.  89  in 
a  case. 

This  MS.  is  fragmentary,  and  some  folios  are  torn  and  imperfect.  On  margin  of 
page  ii,  in  a  contemporary  hand,  is  the  entry  "  Hughe  ap  Kobart  did  wreit  this." 

1  II  byd  kyfion  dynion  yw  duw  &c.  n 
h,  gwakhmai  atebion  gwrthrych  &c.  o 
c.      arthvr  atebion  kymen  &c.— leaf  imperfect                                      p 

2  Particulars  about  the  number  of  paternosters,  ave  marias  &c. 
which  must  be  repeated  "  by  the  owner  of  cattle  "—imperfect 

3  er  hyd  i  bvom  i  yn  dav  ynghyd  q 
ni  wn  yny  byd  pwy  ydwyd. 

h.      o  chefaisti  gyn[g]or  kariadol  Ac.  r 

*  Those  pieces  are  apparently  holographs. 


662  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPTS  88-9. 

c.  *lLyma  gynghorav  katwn  ddoeth  ac  ystvdfach  vardd  ar 
hardd  glas  or  gadair  i  bob  gwr  doeth  ar  vyno  bodd  duw  a  bodd 
dynion  yny  byd  yma  ac  yny  \ 

kar  dy  ddiiw  yn  fwy  no  dim    kanis  ef  pie    pob    peth   ac  a  wyr 
pob  peth  ac  a  ddichon  pob  peth  kar  dy  gymydoc  yn  gvmaint 

a  [thi  dy]  hvn  &c ends :  kanis   pwy  bynac  a  vyno  ewyllis 

y  korff  yn  y  byd  yma  ef  a  gyll  ewyllis    ir  enaid  yn  y  byd  arall  || 
— Cy.  MS.  3  supra. 

11       Pan  oedd  saint  senedd  vrefl  a 

ai-  ol   gwiw  bregeth  dewif  &c imperfect 

13      eliSn  dec  taw  ath  wylo     ....  b 

ni  ddichon  neb  dy  orfodj: 

13       duw  frenin  yn  teirn  an  tad     ....  c 

duw  ag  a  wnaeth  digon  oedd 

16  llyma  y  saith  ofytf  a  wnaeth  y  saith  wyr  doethion  bob  vn 
y w  gilydd  //  a  fPob  vn  atebodd  ^  gilydd  val  hyn  //  par  ddoethineb 
fwiaf  ar  ddyn  gallv  o  honaw  ddrwc  i  arall  a  heb  i  wnevthvr  &c. 

b.    llyma  y  naw  jieth  a  gaiS  dyn    y   dydd    jf    kafFo  efferen  a 
gweled  korff  krisst  &c. 

18-22  llyma  veddeginiaeth  i  lygaid  etc.    O  rroir  svgvn  y  wormed 

yny  ifroenav  Ac ends :  O  bydd  gwraic  yn  trafaelio  ar  ddyn 

bachan    kais    lysiav   llywelyn  a  dod  iddi   yw    yfed  mewn   dwr   ao 
iach  vydd. 

23  llyma  englynion  y  dee  gorchymvn. 

y  mynydd  sinam  mewn  maen d 

5fr  brawdwr  i  avr  bavadwys  Anon 

25  Dod  vwyd  a  died  par  dy  &c.  „      e 

26  +  enaid  krist  sauteiddia  fi  korfF  krist  amddiffin  fi  &c.        / 
5.      O  dduw   y  nefoedd   gwnevthvriawdr    y  dyfroedd  &c.  g 

27  llyma  weddi  i  yslopio  gwaed  i  lonsiws  varchoc  dall  o  ebriw 
a  gymerth  gwuiw  yn  i  law  ac  a  vrathodd  ystlys  yn  arglwydd  ui  &c. 

28  §Eira  mynydd  gwyn  blode  drain     ....  /t 

onid  duw  nid  oes  benadvr.  llywarch  hen 

30       Yma  yr  ys  yn  ymryson     ....  i 

trech  a  gaia  y  vantais  ver 
uor  bwp  a  geidw  or  haner  || 


MS  89  =  Hen.  478.  Poetry.  Paper ;  7^  X  SJ  inches  ;  first 
half  of  the  xviith  century;  174  pages;  partly  sewn  and  partiy  loose  in 
vellum  co\er. 

Tlii«  MS  which  is  very  imperfect,  is  in  a  bad  state  of  preservation,  and  the 
paper  is  in  many  places  pedshing  fast.  Pages  9-13,  16-27  29-32,  65-96,  136-47 
are  probahly  in  the  autograph  of  John  Phylip,  and  the  other  pages  are  supposed 
to  be  in  the  handwriting  of  his  sons. 

The  name  of  William  Vaughan  occurs  on  pp.  136  and  148. 

I       II  Sion  deg  i  waneg  ai  wen  * 

fab  Roeser  fwya  bressen     ....  ,       ,    „  , 

ai  rhoi  ne  ir  hwn  aeth  Bees  go-i  glyn  dwfrdwy 

"T^^^^Myvyrian,  vol.  iii  pp.  100-6.  t  Ibid,  pp.  3-4. 

t  Ibid,  vol.  i  pp.  83-4. 
§  Sec  Myvyrian,  vol.  i  p.  540  ii,  p.  545  i,  ii,  iv,  vi,  and  i. 


POETRY  BY  JOHN  PHYLIP  ETC.  563 

4  Mar:  Edwart  Wmffre  ofaes  neuadd* — See  p.  97  below 

Mae  /  n  /  benyd  am  hen  benaetli     ....  a 

yw  i  mab  glan  mwy  i  bo  i  glod  |1 1.  68* 

7  II  a  chocl  leddf  voly  perfeddfaich     ....  l> 
ai  fEwrn  vaith  val  vtifei-n  vydd          jfeu:  ap  tuditr  penllyn 

8  Marwnad  Sion  ap  Roeser 

Blin  ydoedd  gau  blanedav     ....  c 

gore  aeth  ir  drjgarcdd  ||  1.  20 

9  II  ieuaii  oedd  darian  i  dir     ....  d 
yw  tuedd  fer  hyd  dydd  frawd                           gvto/r/  glpi 

1 1   C.  cymod  i  ieil:  vychan  ap  Jeu:  ap  adda  a  ddigiassai 
am  y  cywydd  vchod 
sant  cristoffr  a  vu  /  n  /  offrwm     ....  e 

arr  vynghefn  err  vynghyfoetlit  gutojrj  glynn 

14  Cywydd  Dd:  ap  Jeuan  ap  Einion 

Y  blaenaf  o  bobl  wynedd     ....  / 

led  yniToed  or  wlad  yn  rrydd  Dd:  Nanmor 

16  Cyicydd  dychan  ir  fflint  aiffihydd 

doethwn  dduwsid  diwaethaf    ....  g 

garr  bronn  nid  val  gwr  breiniawl  (1.  18)|| 

17  Luc  X:  frodur  oil  vawr  rad  rym     ....  h 

yngrroes  duw  ag  yngrrist  oil  J.  Ph  : 

22       divvedd  ynn  bucbedd  bob  awr  a  bassia     ....  i 

ddyro  dduw  oeddyd  awr  ddiweddol  ,, 

26  Psalm  I.  gwynn  i  vyd  ag  oi  iawn  vodd     ....  li 

bennaeth  velly  bo  beynydd  „ 

28  &  33  Mar:  sian  llwyd  gwraig  Morns  Wyn  or  Glyn 

in  a  later  hand  and  partly  illegible  I 

#  *  *  angaii  trwm  i  nog  awr     .... 
oes  yna  i  lies  i  sian  llwyd  Gr:  Phylip 

29  7  dditw  :  pwy/  r  /  gwr  ar  power  i  gyd     ....  m 

oen  duw  ing  am  diengo  Hqff  ap  Robert 

32       blin  yw  trallod  rrod  ar  liwnn  &c.  a  fragment  of  4  lines  n 

Moliant  Mastr  Edwart  Humffre  ofaes  Neuadd 
34       pwy  ya /t /  dyn  pur  di  weniaith     ....  o 

ith  wyueb  ddwyn  wyth  einiocs  Gr:  Phylippes 

39       Y  Hew  downus  llwyd  vniawn     ....  p 

ffynniant  vrddiniant  ir  ddau  Jeuan  llwyd 

45       pwy  ywr  bavlwych  pvr  helynt     ....  « 

a  mwy  drwy  ffyniant  amen  hydtoaladr  kesel 

51       y  karw  braisg  uweb  kwrr  bronn     ....  r 

a  di  gynnwrf  deg  einioes  if  an  llwyd 


CywYDDEtr  BY  John  Phylip 

55   Mar:  hwmffre  -ap  dd:  o  verthyr 

Y  mae  ais  i  mi  yssig     .... 

a  ffortli  hwnn  wmffre  ith  enaid  J,  ph. 

*  It  is  difficult  to  say  whether  lines  23-08  belong  to  this  marwnad. 
f  This  ends  on  page  16,  the  scribe  having  turned  over  2  leaves. 


664  TENURTH   MANUSCRIPT  89. 

69  Mol:  Wm:  Monis  or  celynennav 

yr  hyddgarw  ir  howddgar  wedd     ....  « 

a  theiroes  gwr  ith  rwysc  el  J.  pfi 

64  C.  i  Ric:  vychan  o  govs  y  gedol  o  groeso  adreftaedi  i 
restio  am  dda'r  wlad. 

gwynedd  a  vu  wag  ennyd     ....  j 

rrodd  duw  ai  borth  rrwydddeb  vt  . 
G8  Marwnad  wmffre  startle 

och  fi'onn  vynychfriw  ennyd     ....  c 

iddo  i  del  o  dda  a  dalawdd 
72  Marwnad  antoni  ystanle 

y  byd  dig  somedig  serth     ....  ^ 

berr  nev  hir  val  y  barn  hwn 

77  Mar;  lisse  ap  Wm:  llwyd  o  riw  waedog  .  15§3  .     • 

braich  a  Haw  bylaw  haeledd  a  dorrwyd    ....  « 

o  tliorrwyd  oil  i  throed  ai  llavv 
81  Mol:  John  gwynn  o  wedir 

Yr  aer  o  gorff  yr  ir  gainc     ....  / 

a  gwnned  luvnn  gann  oed  bir 

85   C.  i  Robert  wynn  o  bennllech  i  ofyn  casseg  dros  Ric:  Oio: 

pvvy  yw'r  vndyn  heb  priiinder     ....  g 

rrobert  wynn  hir  barhaed  does 

90  C.  i  John  Gr:  o  lyn  i  ofyn  tarw  dros  Edio:  Prys 
■     o  dovlyn  merionydd 

Mae  I V  j  son  am  wr  essennyd    ....  h 

i  werth  vo  o  gyfraith  vyd 

95  Mol:  robert  Ihoyd  o  rriw  goch 

o  bv  wlad  wenn  heb  liw  dydd    ....  i 

a  mrredCdd  claim  rrad  haedd  clod  (i.  84)  || 

Marwnaden  Edwart  humffre  .  l620  .  See  p.  4  above. 
97       II  sian  yw  ol  y  sy  /  n  /  wylaw     ....  h 

i  fath  wr  llwyd  fyth  ir  llann  Sion  Phylips 

99*     doe  i  bu  basg  o  dyb  a  barn     ....  / 

duw  gii  /  nn  /  tad  dug  enaid  hwnn.  Rissiart  Phylips 

108       Y  gwanwyn  oer  gwae  ny  ni     .     .     .     .  m 

Edwart  hael  gyda  duw  /  n  /  tad  Grvffydd  Phylips 

114       Kwyn  fu  lawn  kann  fil  o  wyr    ....  n 

vn  dedwydd  enaid  edwart  Huvi  Machno 

119       oerder  i  bawb  rodio  r  byd     ....  o 

vn  fv  dda  ir  nefoedd  aetbf  Rissiart  kynnwal 

125       Gwae  ni  /  r  /  tair  sir  o  hiraeth     ....  p 

oes  oessoedd  i  lys  iessu  kadioaladr  hessail 

131  Mar:  Margred  fetch  Rob:  Edwards,  givraig  Ruffydd 
llwyd  o  Riw  goch  .  l6lS 
Bhoi  a  dwyn  erioed  yna    ....  q 

i  law  ddiiw  nefol  i  ddaetht  Gr:  Phylips 


"  The  scribe  turned  over  two  leaves  here  and  pages  100-1  are  in  a  later  hand. 

100  Trvban  balckdcr:  Fy  anwyl  frawd  karedig  &c. 

101  J  dd:  ah  Evan  ap  einon:  ir  blaenaf  obobl  wynedd  kc.    See  p.  14  above. 
t  One  folio  missing  from  this  Marwnad. 


'THK   XXIV   jiEl'BEg   AND   POETRY.  365 

137   Y peJicar  messur  arrhugain  ;  tair  cainc  prydyddiaetli  y  sydd 
iiid  amgen  ynglyuion  cywyddav  ag  awdUiv  /  dav  rry  w  yiiglyn  ysydd 
nid  amgen  prost  ag  vnodl  ....  ends  : 
a  tbryssorav  vwch  allorav 
athro  gorav  a  thrwy  gaviad 
Ag  Till  hynn  i  teifynaf  y  24  messur  ccrdd  dafoti  ai  dosljarth  yu  ol  rrcol  *  *  *  « 

149  Mar:  Elliw  Kioi/d  " priod  Rob:  Edwart  aer  Maes  Nciiadd." 

Och  alaeth  afiacli  wylai[s]     ...  a 

ag  wedi  'r  oes  gyda  'r  ^esu  }faii  llwyd 

155       II  madws  i  ni  del  in  tv  '  b 

ar  frys  ymendio  ya  buchedd     .... 
ag  felly  y  bydd  pobamser  Gruffith  ?  pri/s 

157       gwyr  genedl  brytauia  c 

gweddillion  gwaed  troia     .... 

dyna  i  chwi  ^awu  am  *  «  *  *  "  jffan  llwyd  sieffre 

a  naelh  y  messur"  .  15^()  . 

164  Petinillion — very  imperfect 

#  *  #     yn  ddyledwr  n  arglwud  am  pryuwr     ....        d 
cael  kyfian  or  wlad  nefol .  /  . 

167       Y  gwrda  o  gywirdeb  &c.  e 

Pages  168-9  are  blauk  and  the  rest  170-4  are  mere  fragments. 


MS.  90  =  Hen.  197.  Poetry  chiefly  by  Sion  Kain  in  wliose 
autograph  this  MS.  is.  Paper;  7^  X  5^  inches;  pages  i-iv,  1-110 
(pp.  i,  iv,  6,  40,  99-102,  108-10  are  blank  and  about  a  dozen  folios 
are  missing)  ;  sewn  in  limp  vellum,  in  a  case. 

ii.  Good  Cosene  Kynaston  I  pray  yov  to  lielpe  the  bearer  m'  Kayne  to  the  loan 
of  a  coat  &c.  (signed)  William  Moris  at  Watling  Street  near  St.  Autelyns  Church. 
See  p.  103  below. 

iii.  Plant  llolant  ap  Eio  o  ddol  y  korslwyn  ydynt  Ric  puw  &c. 

1       Y  llew  dof  gavllaw  dyfi     .     .     .     .  / 

Tiaglaa  walch  ti  yw  r  glain  nod  15S2  .  JRys  Kain  . 

7       Trist  yw  r  son  tros  dayar  sydd     ....  ff 

dwyn  Kissiart  .  .  gwalch  Sion   .  .  Dafydd  i  daid  .   .   . 
i  law  duw  aeth  le  da  iawn  1 63 J  .  j  Sion  Kain  .  I 

Kymjddeu  i  Owain  Glyndwr 
13       Ilyma  vyd  rhag  sythfryd  Saia     ....  li 

pe  am  swydd  pvmoes  iddo  jfolo  Goch 

15       Eryr  digrif  afrifed     ....  i 

Ar  glod  ir  marcliog  or  glynu  .-j  Gr:  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  Einion 

20       Mawr  yw  symvd  o  h^d  hydr     ....  It 

yn  Sycharth  bvarth  y  beirdd  .  /  Jolo  Goch 

23       Addewais  ytt  hynn  ddwywaith     ....  I 

a  phiav  r  ll^s  hoff  yw  r  He  .  /  „ 

27       Myfyrio  bvm  i  varwn     ....  m 

ag  vnllaw  y\7  am  Gynllaith  j, 

31       Kefais  er  na  vedrais  vydr     ....  n 

a  chwnkwest  Ilora  Hinsiest  hen.  E.ap  Hi/ddi  ap  Ev.lloyd 

11,02. 


566  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPTS  90-1. 

35       Y  Gwr  hir  nith  gar  Harri     ....  a 

dwg  ni  on  rhwym  dygn  yn  rh^dd  jfolo  Goch.j 

39       Mil  a  phedwarkant  nid  mwy  kof  ydiw  &c.     f.  G.  medd  rai  b 


41  MoUant  Tomas  Howard  Jarll  Arndel  .  .  Barwn  o 
Groesossivallt  SfC. 
Vn  ^arll  sydd  er  lies  heddyw     ....  c 

sydd  impren  orsedd  Bmprwr  .  /  1633  .  Sion  Kain  . 

46  Emveu  Plant  m'^  mredydd  morgan  o  Elsbeth  vj  mathew  prys.  d 

47  3Ioliant  Mredydd  Morgan  a  Gydewain 

Y  llew  gwaedol  Haw  gadani     ....  e 
einioes  Adda  'n  benn  swyddwr                1636 .  Sion  Kain  . 

53  Mol:  doctor  Sion  dafis,  "  Grigor  am  allor  mallwyd" 

Mae  vu  lien  am  yn  holl  iaith     ....  J 

ped  vai  Bab  onid  mab  mair  .  /  l630  .  Sioti  Kain  . 

58  Kywydd  Hielkyn  ap  Howel  o  von 

Kad  ddii'wy  kaid  i  ddwyrodd     ....  ^f 

nef  dii'ion  naf  ai  dyry  .  /  liissierdyn 

62       diiw  sydd  gall  dewisodd  gynfc  h 

do  ddeuddeg  .  .  .  postolion  weision  ]fessv     .... 
ach  oes  i  wytlioes  a  el  15^1  .  /  Mys  Kain  . 

67  .Kywydd  i  ofyn  llyfr  y  Beibl  gan  Sion  Wiliams 

mae  <*n  lien  mwya  in  holl  iaith     ....  i 

di  gai  gei'dd  a  deg  oi  gwevth  1633  .  Sion  Kain  , 

72       Y  Gwr  ar  warr  y  garreg     ....  k 

Nid  y  pab  onid  mab  mair  Gvtto  or  Glynn.  / 

76       Y  dewr  gwar  peed  hir  gariad     ....  I 

Wmifrai  .  .  llwyd  .  .  .  llew  o  vers     .... 
rhwysg  ywch  a  gras  ag  iechyd .  /  .  164O  .  Sion  Kain 

81       Mab  kadi-  kadwaladr  keidw  eilydd  hael     ....  m 

Trig  yn  bendefig  dafydd  ith  lyssoedd     .... 
dy  glod  vwch  deg  o  wledydd  .  /  Syppyn  Kyfeilioe 

84       Brig  bonedd  Gwynedd  gv  enwawg  wyd  Sion     .     .    .    .    n 
braens  hir  waed  brins  Rhiwedawg     .... 
ag  o  bcnn  brig  y  bonedd  16^3  .  Sion  Kain. 

91       Kanaf  vawl  perawl  pvrwyd  ddiwagtaith  0 

ywch  ddoctor  o  vallwyd     .... 
alcw  n  voes  i  kanaf  vawl .  /  »  » 

103  MoUant  IViliam  Morys  aer  Leieys  Marys    See  p  ii  iibovo 

Y  Glain  hoywfraisg  glan  hyfryd     ....  p 
a  cherdded  vwyfwy  ch  vrddas .  /           l6/f1  .  Sion  Kain  ■ 


MS.  91  =  Hen.  168.    Poetry;   paper;    8fx  6  inches;   written 
circa  1641  ;  .sewn  ;  in  a  case. 

"Morris  Evans  (of  Lanfyllin,  antiquary  was  owner  of  this  book"  (p.  1") 
"  dyma  Ijfyr  Cowdde  yr  hwn  sydd  yn  eiddo  moris  Evans  o  sychard  yr  hiyn  sudd  y 
tavio  ym  mlwy  Uansiliii  "  (159). 

1   The  last  liventy  lines  of  a  Cijwydd  ending  : 

ar  dy  ben,  a  ro  dvw  byw  William  Ihjn  q 

b.  J  Syr  William  Gr:  Siamberlen  gwynedd 

Y  dref  ag  ar  dor  afon  &c.  4  lines  only.  »' 


POlSTEY   BY   VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  567" 

2  (dwr  tan  ser  tera  a  main  &c.  Dd:ap  Edmond).  a 
b.      (Awyr  dwr  lloer  ser  haule  tano  tora  &c.  Anon)  h 

3  Egorir  nef  vrrth  lef  areth  lafar     ....  c 
knokiwn  ne  gyrwn  efo  egorir                               Sion  Tvdvr 

G       (Ai  clust  dyllog   wg  wir  eigion  gwyddleidr  &c.  d 

Rich:  Hughes) 
1      Paud  angall  na  ddeallwn     ....  e 

ar  y  Haw  yuo  i  llywenydd  Syr  dd:  Trefor 

10  (Arfer  o  bump  rif  aur  bortli  &c.  Hugh  *      )  f 

11  Rhoed  ym  boen  rliaid  ym  benyd     ...  g 
i  ddeyblwy  mowyddwy  Amen  /               Mathew  Bromffdd 

14  R.  K.  yn  ccinv  yn  iach  yw  wladnol  giverlhv  i  dy  yiigartheryr 
Troi  may  rhod  trwm  i  rliediad     ....  h 

Ych  plitli  a  bendith  y  byd  Roger  Kyffln 

18  pan  chwilier  iawnder  vndeb  yn  glaiar     ....  i 
y  bwcli  gwyn  rhag  baicli  o  gas                                     J,  D. 

19  Sion  Williams  ddinam  sy  ddaioni  gwlad     ....  k 
oedd  hyder  oi  fwynder  fo                                   John  Davis  . 

21       Genav  glyn,  towyn,  ganteioedd,  a  droes     ....  / 

fal  y  tyn  pob  rhai  ir  tai  yn  Towyn.*  dd:  Nanmawr 

23  jfr  Milgi :  ILywelyn  a  lliw  alarch  |  am  horgan     .     .     .     .     ni 

am  llowrodd  im  Haw  arall  Ho:  rheinalld . 

26  f  Rob:  Salbri  o  rug  ;  Per  wedd  ar  Ian  Pyryddon    .    .    .    .    n 

avr  dy  war  y  eryr  doeth  Richard  or  hengaer 

29  Mar:  R.  Salbri:  Y  may  kwyn  y  myw  kanyii     ....       o 

ddwy  oes  ir  arglwydd  ifanck .  1S50  .  Gr:  Hiracthog 

33       Dis  ywr  byd  os  arbedwn     ....  2> 

ar  ddim  mwy  ond  ar  ddvw  mawr  Sion  Tvdvr 

36  Mar:  G.  Hiraethog :  Y  bardd  bach  vwch  beirdd  y  byd    .    ,    .    q 

keidwad  dyn  kadwed  denaid  William  llyn 

40  Mar:  Imgh  ap  hugh  or  Plus  vcha  {yn  ILangedwyn)  . 

Trist  yw  yn  pwyll  torres  duw  /n/  pen     ....  r 

hvw  ap  hvw  gida  dvw  dad  TVm:  llyn 

44  pen  fwried  klochdv  poen  niferoedd  ir  llawr  &c.  150^ .         s 

b.  Oed  Ner  .  mil  haner  in  liiaith  ag  igen  '  t 
ag  ages  i  ddevsaith  |  pen  grynodd  &c.     Moris  ap  H.  ap  T'r 

c.  Rospwyd  i  Sem  yr  Asia  .  rhaii  kv  &c.  u 

45  Y  llwynog  ar  lliw  anardd     ....  v 
fyth  mae  swn  y  kwn  ym  kylch                   Hugh  dd:  lloyd 

48  Anercli  nag  anercb  ganad    ....  jy 
ar  dy  gred  na  ddowed  ddim                      D.  [a/>]  g[wilim] 

b.  Diogi:  Dy  esgvs  yw  dy  asgell  .  ow  Edw:  8cc.  Anon  .  a; 

49  f  Lewis  kyffin  o  artheryr  y 

Y  gwr  ai  glog  yn  graig  las     ...     . 

kyff  dewrwych  kaffwy  devraw  Hvw  dd: 

51  Mar:  L.  Kyffin  :  Di  hyder  dvw  ai  hedwyn  ....            s 

yn  dy  Iv  enaid  lewys  William  llyn 

*  This  Awdl  is  made  up  of  parts  of  two  different  poems.     See  Pen.  MS.  52  pp. 


568  PENIAETH  MANtSCfilPT   91. 

Page  53  has  some  account  of  Edw:  Horliart  of  Kernes  and  his  descendants. 

56  Kowydd  i  ofvn  bytheiad 

Pa  gaiw  gwych  piav  gair  gwr     ....  a 

a  chyfoeth  dy  faich  hefyd  R[oger]  K[t/ffin] 

60       Y  bytl  trist  ar  bowyd  traw     .     .  '  ,     .  6 

dvw  dro  gwir  dy  drigaredd  William.  Ihjn 

63       Yr  eos  fain  avres  falcli     ,     .     .     .  c 

dvw  maddav  bob  dim  vddyn  Tho^  Prys  "orfflyt" 

68  f  Siniwnt,  Edw:  a  Simwnt  "wyr  Simwnt  "  Thehval, 
tri  aer  o  bias  y  ward 
Mae  tri  aer  am  y  tair  iaith     ....  d 

yvv  wyr  fab  i  aer  a  fd  Siou  Philipp 

71  (yr  enaid  a  ar  naid  ir  nef  o  choiliwcli  &c.)  Anon   e 

72  Kowydd  Sion  Gryffyth  lloyd  o  wetherin 

Y  sant  gwar  syn  y  tai  gwin     ....  / 

o  ddewis  saig  i  ddo  Sion  Richart  hynwal 

75  f  Edw:  Moris  o  benn  y  hont,  sirif  Trefaldicn  . 

Mae  vn  sirif  mewn  siroedd     ....  g 

oed  liydd  ith  ddydd  penaeth  wyd  Itobcrt  Dijfi 

79    7  ojyn  llyfr  i  Htimffre  lloyd  yr  atwrne  tros  Samson  kyffiii . 

y  gwr  o  gant  gorav  a  gaid     ....  h 

ym  hob  rhith  i  feudith  fo  Rowland  vauachan 

85       Y  keirw  mawr  i  keir  y  medd     ....  i 

er  deigr  mair  deg  ar  i  mab  Tvdvr  Aled 

90       Gwae  ni  /  r  /  beirdd  gan  air  y  byd     ....  k 

moy  0  avr  siwrl  ymhwrs  Sion  Sion  Tvdyr 

94  Mar:  Titdyr  Aled :  Dvw  or  gwya  a  drig  enyd     ...  / 

dvw  yn  tad  enaid  Tvdvr  Raff  ap  Robert 

97       Mae  son  mal  moesen  ne  fwy     ....  _  m 

trwy  ddawn  aer  bottrhyddon  wen  Sion  Tudr 

101  7  nfyn  mor/uaii  i  S^  Thomas  goch  . 

Y  gwr  vrddol  gair  wirddysg     ....  « 

lie  brav  fynd  llwybr  y  fendith  John  Tudr 

105  (Dy  lyfr  ay  barod  da  lafur  /  beraidd  &c.)  o 

106  Mar:  Syr  Oiten  ap  Gwilim  . 

Trwm  ar  ia  yn  tramwy  r  od     .     .     .     .  P 

i  trig  aJdysg  tragwyddawl  William  llyn 

109      Anna  a  wnaeth  i  nyni    ....  ,      „     t     i  * 

in  eneidiav  yn  enwedig  feu:  ap  ho:  Surdwal 

112       (Attoch  meinwen  lawen  liwia    ....  t       %  '' 

o  rhoisse  era  saeson  croessoswallt  thomas  Jones) 

11.S   r  »)e»n J  «e/w  ••  Y  twr  vwchaf  or  trychant    .     .     .     .  « 

a  choffa  bwyth  chwe  fflb  win  Leivis  Man, 

116  if  ofyn  gwydd  i  Rob:  ap  Rys  gyttyn  tros  Rys  grythaior . 

Robert  ap  Eys  dacklys  don     ...     .  „.      ^   , 

betlav  y  rych  foi  bwytay  Eys  Swn  Tvdvi 

118  Mar:  Hugh  Williams  ?  o  Dre  wern  ymochnant 

oer  been  am  vn  gwr  beunydd     ....  r^    t  '' 

hvw  ddedwydd  sydd  gida/  r/  saint  Sion  klytceidog] 


tOEl'RY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS,  669 

122  J  Simon  Thelwal  o  lantanad  a  Sian  Sions  merch  Wmjf'rav 
Johns  a  brinded  yn  llandegav  22  chiuefror  l6ifl. 
Y  gair  sydd  arr  gras  vddiiu     ....  a 

da  diweddont  y  dyddiav  Gr:  Pldlipps 

127  Ewnaetli  y  fran  i  nytli  fry     ...     .  h 
bed  elech  heb  i  dalaith                                                    Anon 

128  Jrhedd:  Wrtli  ystyriatb  y  stori     ....  6 

gwii'  ddawn  dan  drigaredd  ddvw  William  Philipp 

133  Mar:  S.  Salbri  a  ruff  :  O  dvw  dad  pa  fyd  ydyvv     ....      d 
i  g^velwn  bawb  i  gylydd  Sion  Tudur 

137  y  Rinalld  Gryffyth  ap  howel 

Mae  draw  gwr  modrwyog  walld     ....  e 

ai  tair  einioes  yt  rheinalld  Tiidur  Aled 

140  gwared  o  dduw  yn  gwerin  gwyr  anwyl  &c.  S.  K.  f 

141  frheiliog:Y  krair  vwcblaw  jvj  glwydiair  gled  ...  g 

desgant  holl  baradwysgerdd  Hiiw  Arwystl 

144       Dydd  da  ir  llwynog  or  ogof    ....  A 

ffarwell  rliaid  ym  ffo  ir  alld  (fhtw  ILwyd  Cynfel) 

148  Ysdad priodas  :  rhai  a  gar  yn  rhagorawl     ....  i 

ich  pJith  ai  fenditb  a  fo  Edmond  Prys 

151       dy  ofer  fwynder  a  fv  otb  farieth  &c.  Anon  k 

b.  pei  doi  vn  .  wir  fvn  .  ar  fol,  em  foddvs  &c.  „        I 

c.  Jr  syrythyr  :  O  frodvr  oil  fawr  rad  rym     ....  m 

3'ngrhoes  dvw  ag  yngrhist  oil  Sio7i  Philip 

156  J  ofvn  y  dioned  a  llyfr  prognosticasiwn  gen  S.  Tvdyr. 

Sion  air  pvr  synwyr  parod     ....  n 

dod  y  ddav  a  dedw3(ld  wyf  .  '  Edmond  Prys 

159       (gormod  o  ddiod  y  ddoeth  neitbiwr  &c.)  Anon  o 

160*     (ow  fy  seren  lawen  liwis  Ion  garedig  Ian     ....  p 

dyro  im  gysur  mwuti  i  thro  am  llwuddo  i  rhodio  yr  llawr 

John  Thomas) 

161  (Er  llwydo  barf  Anlladwr :  beth     ....  q 
nawoed  im,  hen  a  newydd) 

162  (Y  pvmp  brenliinllwyth,  a  xv  Ihvyth  gvvyucdd.)  r 

163  (^A  carol,  partly  illegible,  in  a  later  hand  ending  : 

am  dy  fowredd  rhinwedd  rhad  fwun  leissiad  yn  felysedd)         « 
104        (heb  Crist  heb  Cred  heb  faetb  heb  fowud  &c.      Muris  Evans  ICyS)  t 

166       II  Mvvia  rhngor  sydd  rhwn  gwedd     ....  u 

ua  fydd  i  was  diweddar  S\ion']  K[^lyicedog'\ 


MS.  92  =  Hen,  300.  PoETET,  being  in  praise  of  the  Lloyds  of 
Berthlioyd,  near  Llan  Idlos.  Paper  ;  8  X  6  inches  ;  136  pages  -  in 
two  hands— (a)  pp.  1-112,  [b)  pp.  113-35— written  in  the  second 
quarter  of  the  xvnth  century  ;  sewn  in  vellum  covers ;  in  a  case. 

Tlie  paper  of  this  MS.  is  beginning  to  perish,  but  the  text  is,  with  the  exceptioli 
of  a  few  words,  complete,  except  at  the  beginning,  -where  it  is  wanting. 

1  A  Jragpient  (20  lines)  ending : 

kroes  dvw"  ath  blwyf/  kr'ist  ith  blaid  lewis  dwnn  v 

*  Pages  160-6  are  "  upside  down  "  and  in  different  hands. 
y  98130.  S 


570  PENIAUTH  MANtSCKIPT   S2. 

Mol;  Dd:  llioyd  ah  sienkin  or  berth  Iwyd  "  ar  dir  Jdlos.'' 
b.       y  dyn  a  roed  /  dann  avr  weild     ....  a 

a  dvw  keuyd  /  ai  kynal  otven  gimjnodd 

5       kynydd  /  dvw  dafydd  /  da  dyfiad :  kanaf    ....  b 

a  dvw  n  /  dy  gynal  /  dan  dy  gynydd  „  „ 

8       Mae  klod  /  ag  yma  i  /  klvdir     ....  c 

a  /  ddavv  ar  hynu  /  iddo  y  /  rhawg       Morys  llwyd  toiliain 

11       dyrd  ar  byd/  geuyd  /  eginyn  :  difalch     ....  d 

i  /  gwnn  dyb  enill  /  genyd  bevnydd  „  „ 

15       bardd  wyf  a/wyr  llwyr/  wellad     ....  e 

diiir  oes  yr  hydd  /  dros  y  /  rhain  Bedo  hafesb 

18       Ar  ddvw  gwynn/  oi  radd  gynwys     ....  / 

cryr  byw/  yw  roi  ar  bar  „        „ 

20       Pwy  sydd  ond  dafydd/  yn  tyfv/  bob  dydd      .     .    .     ,     g 
i  /  gadw  i  /  dyfiad  /  gida  dafydd  leuan  Tew 

25       Oes  dyn  a/  wjt  /  eiste  n/  iawn     ....  h 

tann  Ifan  /  tew  yn  vfydd  „         „ 

28       Esgwier  llwyd  /  sy  gar  Haw     ....  i 

doed  vwchvwch  /  dvw  ai  dichon  „        „ 

31        Trwy  gynnydd  /  dafydd  /  i/ del:/  ibyfgyw  grym  ...  h 

iechyd  /  ar  gynydd  /  ich  droganer  hvio  :  ancysU 

34       Nid  rliaid/ eiriach  rbaid/ ond  rboi  hyder/ praff' .  ...  I 

im  byw  am  darian  /  na  bo  ym  deiriacli  „  ,, 

37       Y  /  dyn  gwnlhvyd  /  yn  ganllaw    ....  m 

heb  vn  otli  waed  /  benn  ith  61  „  „ 

40       Awn  er  liaeddv/  yn  rhoddion     ....  n 

bo  ctb  lin  barch  /  byth  y w  alw  n  /  ben  „  „ 

43       Pwy  sy  /  11  /  fyw  /  hapvsa  n  /  foes     ....  o 

bo  /  i  /  chwi  /  i  /  pwyth  /  be  i  /  chwe  pvnt       „  „ 

4G      Pwy  yw  r  vstvs  /  pvr  ystod     ....  p 

aed  i  /  aro.s  /  oed  eryr  jfeuan  hevliarlh 

Marwnad  dd;  llwyd  sieinkin  or  berth  Iwyd 
-^      49       gwae  /r/  fro  dir/  garw  fwrw  deri     ....  q 

ar  ffyniant  /  i  /  gorffeno  Owain  gwynedd 

52       mae  llawer  /  krevlonder  /  kr$>t     ....  r 

fyn  henaint  /  fyn  hy  anedd 

fy  nerth  /  aeth  or  berth  /  ir  bodd     .... 
heb  yn  i  /  le  /  ben  /  j'  /  wlad  feuan  Tew 

Marwnadeu  sieinki/i  ap  Jeuan  hylip  jo  j  Ian  Idles 
56      gwae  bowys  deg  /  heb  ystor     ....  s 

i  /  wlad  nef  /  eled  yn  iach  Bedo  :  hafesb 

68       E  /  wnaetb  i  /  ras  /  vn    a  /  thri     ....  t 

fry  ymonwes  /  fair  mae  i  /  enaid  hvio  arwystl 

61  Moliant  Jcinhin  llwyd  /  or  berth  hcyd 

y  /  siryf  /  heb  hir  siarad     ....  _  « 

i   /   drigo  n  /  benn  /  draw  gan  bwyll  Owain  gwynedd 

Marwnadeu  Jeinkin  llwyd  aer  dd:  wyr  sieinkin  or 
berth  Iwyd,  E.ann  Jdloes,  1()2^  . 
65       Mae  oernad  /  in  gwlad  /  mae  n  /  galcdi  :  /  mawr   .    ,    .    .  t( 
oes  oesoedd  /  i  /  lys  ifesv. 
Icnewillin  /  dillin  /  da  oliawl  :  /  di  w.^g 
don  Jfan  /  vn  dvw  nefoedd  Harri  gwym 


THE  LLOYDS  OF  BERTHLWYD.  571 

67       O  /  dvw  fyrred  /  oferedd    ....  a 

iiid  ai  er  glew  /  led  ewin 
ni  wyrai  /  i  /  falch  air  oi  fin     .... 
A  /  iv  onest  /  hael  fwynwych      .   /OSJ  .     Edwart  Evans 

72       gwae  n  /  hwy  n  /  avvr  gwanbav  a  wnaeth     ....  h 

a  /  fo  n  /  iarll  /  i  /  fyw  n  /  i  /  ol  Sion  kain 

76       mae  oer  och  /  trwm  yw  r  /  achos     ....  c 

iawnaf  vn  /  nef  yw  enaid  James  dwnn 

81       dydd  oer  sydd  /  diweddar  son     ....  d 

liynod  fab  /  i  /  enaid  fo  Rhobert  dyfi 

85       dvw  orvcliaf  /  edryched     ....  e 

dvw  nef  /  ath  adawo  /  i  /  ni  gr:  Jiafren 

90       dvw  aetli  a  /  gwr  /  gwladwr  /  glan     ....  / 

dvw  vn  /  fo  da  yw  enaid  Rhissiart  llicyd 

Mol:  doctor  olfir  llicyd  j  or  berth  Iwyd,  "  ab  dd:  ivyr 
sieinhiii  o  tin  fevanffylip  " 
94      oes  le  i  /  gael  /  selio  golwg    ....  .  g 

chwi  yw'r  parch  /  vcho  ar  penn 
evraid  awch  /  o  /  ryd  ychen     .... 
cbwi  elo  n  /  wi"  /  vvvch  law  neb  gr:  hafreu 

98      gras  downvs  /  gwres  da  i  /  enyn  ....  h 

dwrn  a  ffarch  /  kadarn  y  Ifydd  .... 

wyd  adfokat  /  fowyd  kv     .     .     .  . 
tair  einioes  /  eto  vc  wyneb  „  „ 

102  Mar:  doctor  olfir  llmjd  of  All  Souls  Oxon, 
Chancellor  of  Hereford  .  l625  . 
gwae  brydain  /  ddig  /  i  /  brodi[r]     ....  i 

llawer  kalon  /  aflonydd 
yn  al  sowls  /  yu  wylo  sydd     .... 
gida  ag  Eisag  /  gyd  gysvr  gr:  hafreu 

106       Mae  oer  gw^n  /  yngliymrv  i  /  gyd     ....  k 

anffod  am  siawusler  henSordd     .... 
i  iawn  afael  /  gwlad  nefoedd  James  :j  dwtin 

110       niawr  o  nad  /  yw  nmrw  yn  ^6r     ....  I 

i  tveddodd  /  at  hoewddvw  harri:  gicyim 

Marwnadeu  Sianhin  Ihvyd  ah  dd:  llipyd  SfC.  162~I  . 
113       kwyno  ir  \Vyf  /  kynn  ar  ofyd     ....  m 

gv  wenn  deg  ac  enaid  aeth  Richard  phi: 

118       Tree  i  bawb  tost  /  ar  bob  tir     .     .     .     .  « 

i  keid  ynu  lie  /  siankyn  llwyd  Sion  hlewedog 

124  Briwyd  hen  Iwyth  brytain  Ian     ....  o 
a  gadwo  /  r  /  aer  arr  godiad                         Griffith  Phylip 

Mol:  syr  Edward  lloyd  or  berthlloyd,  aer  sienhyn 

125  Y  raarchog  golvdog  wledd     ....  P 
ith  adel  yn  angel  ni                    .  1632  .     Edward  Evanes 

129       Es  hir  iawn  vessur  henoed     ....  q 

hap  ar  wyr  fil  Emprwr  fych  1629  .     John  Kain 

132       Y  marchog  avr  helmog  hir     ....  '• 

benod  hael  byw  n  benn  tylwyth  .  1630  .     Sion  Kain 


&  2 


57-2  PEfflARTH  MANUSCRIPT   93. 

MS.  93  =  Hen.  170.  Poetuy — JLyvyr  Cadioaladr  Wynn.  Paper; 
8  X  5|  inches ;  280  pages  ;  sewn,  in  a  case. 

This  MS.  is  a  composite  one,  and  nearly  tlie  whole  seems  to  liave  been  written  in 
the  closing^  years  of  the  xvith  century  (see  p.  159).  Some  pieces  are  evidently  iu 
the  autographs  of  their  respective  authors. 

Morris  Evans  owech  this  Booke  1668  (p.  83). 

The  name  (possibly  the  signature)  of  "  Hughe  Edwards  "  occurs  on  p.  52. 

1       Herod  wjf  hoivv  rad  afael     ....  a 

egni  Hew  rhoi  kyn  Ueied  Gr:  Hiraethog 

4       Serch  a  Koes  ar  cliwaer  esyllt     ....  ^  b 

farnv  .  myw  ne  fai'w  /  n  /  y  fan  Tvdvr  Aled 

7       ]lyma  /  r  /  hawl  lie  mae  rhaid     ....  c 

iug  ar  hynt  ir  angor  hen  .  /  Dr:  Sion  hent 

9       Gwen  dlws  ag  aaadl  isel     ....  d 

gwaeth  nag  ar  ffyrdd  gyrdd  y  go  Bedo  aerdrem 

11  ^  Henaint :  Gwae  a  fwriodd  gof  oerwas     ....  c 

ith  wlad  dvw  ith  weled  di  Jeu:  hrydydd  hir 

14       Blin  yw  hyder  o  weryd     ....  / 

bvn  fain  a  wnel  bevno[n  fyw].  Dd:  nanniov 

16       Eirchiad  wyf  archiad  ofydd     ....  g 

yn  arwydd  at  wen  or  ddol  Dd:  Namor 

18       Y  dabler  yu  i  dyblic     ....  .      *  ' 

i  ffwyth  er  cael  i  ffoethi  Morvs  ab  yfan  ab  enion 

20       gidag  vu  a  geidw  gwynedd     ....  i 

merch  dec  end  cael  march  yw  dwyn  tvdvr  aled 

23  fr  deon  JFtug  salbri :  Pa  wr  ymhais  abram  hen  .  .  .  .  k 
need  tvw  yt  yr  het  o  iork  gr:  ab  feu:  ab  IVnfachan 

27  f  dd;  ap  Fdmwnt :  datvM  fab  difvdd  i  fod  ....  I 
prid  i  g***t  pe  rhoid  i  gyd  gvtor  glyn 

29  atieb:  y  dyn  a  sigwyd  i  av     .     .     .     .  >"■ 

nth  fors  a  gwae  /r/  wraic  ath  [?fedd].      dd:  ab  edmicnt 

32  &  160  Oed  ner  mil  a  haner  on  hiaith  ag  igen  n 

ag  agos  i  ddevsaith  ]  y  krynodd  &c.   Moris  ap  ho:  ap  tvdvr 

b.  Ni  chiliodd  Rliichard  vch  helwin  avrgledd  o 
ars:  dinas  keiddin  .  .  .  erioed  led  i  droed  or  drin     Anon 

c.  o  Has  -wilkok  fras  frysiwr  gymell  beich  p 

frwydrwr  benfro  gastell  |  ni  las  erioed 

berchen  ysbardyn  wen  well  » 

d  &  210b.  A  wyr  neb  kvdeb  pie  kais  pawb  sonion  .     .     .     •          1 

dan  i  swydd  ai  dyn  yw  sais  Twm  brydydd 

e.&2116.  ymhob  man  d'arian  didoreth  a  red  &c.  Ow:  gwynedd  r 

f.      krynion  i  de\ben  kvranev  a  wi.sg  &c.  rys  ham  s 

33  /i".  h/mod  ivmiffre  ap  htvel  ap  siangkin  o  ynys  y  maengwyn 

y  'keirw  ma'wr  kair  i  raedd     ....  * 

er  deigr  mair  deg  er  i  mab             ,  tvdvr  aled 

38  Avfardyn  yw  hyn  ua  hillt  can  calon  &c.  Roger  Kyfyn  u 

39  Mol:  "  fcfan  hoen  Jfor  "  ab  Mredydd 

Yr  hydd  hael  rhwydd  wehelyth     ....  , ,       ** 

ar  hwnn  ^esu  ro  henocd  Sion  mowddwy 

43       Awn  ir  Han  yn  dri  llii     .     .     .     .  v  j     '" 

wrlb  raid  ym  henaid  amen,  morts  ap  ho:  ap  luder 


THE   BOOK   OF  KADWALADR  WYNN. 


573 


45 


18 


y  gwr  a  roes  y  gwryd     .     .     . 
berSaith  lieb  drangk  heb  orfien 


52 


56 


58 


62 


64 


69 


74 


75 


81 


85 
86 


mredvdd  ap  mjs 
Raff  ah  Rohart 
dd:  ah  edmivnt 
Mred:  ah  rrys 


dd;  nanmor 


John  hciit 


John  Kent 


SioH  kent 


f 


9 


h 


Gr:  vtihais 


Jolo  goch 


Anon 


I 


Pwy  jv  I  gwr  ar  power  i  gyd 
oen  dvw  yngod  aa  diaiigo 

0  gyfaveh  yn  y  gafell 

dCiw  gwyn  ath  law  dwg  nithwledd 

y  gwr  vwch  ben  gorvwch  byd     . 
yma  dvw  ne  madde  i  ni 

dvw  greawdr  uef  a  daiar     .... 
dvw  gwyn  ath  law  dwg  uith  wledd 

llyma  fyd  llwm  i  fedydd     .... 
ag  ymwrthod  pecliod  pwl 

Eyfedd  yw'r  byd  Rvwfodd  beth     .... 
Us  iawn  ami  y  w  /  r  /  Han  yma 

blin  yw  trallod  irod  ar  hwn     .... 
dawn  nodded  yn  dwyn  iddi 

Gair  teg  ychwaneg  diachwinwn  gwedi     .     , 
oer  newyn  ar  fyu  wy  ais 

krair  kred  ked  kynydd  kreawdr  llv  bedydJ 
dod  im  gyfranedd  oth  wlad  ath  wledd 

Y  groc  waredoc  o  rvw  /  dymeirchion 
aethaut  er  moliant  ir  ior  vchelfraint 

83  ir  tir  lioff  enaint  ar  tair  ffynmi 

kael  dvw  yno  koel  dewinion     .     ■     .     .  m 

bawb  ar  y  groc  bybvr  groes     yr:  ah  iyfan  ah  IVn  vachan 

(diiw  ion  tirion  ior  ner  naf  am  nvdd  &c.)  moris  icyn.  n 

treio  kanoed  troi  konwyf    .... 
garv  hon  a  gyrv  /w/  hanerch 

88  Barnad  Gytlo  r  glynn  {ag  yntav'nfyw) 
tristach  yw  kymrv  trostyn  .  .  .  , 
y  naill  ai  ddvw  n-i  I  Ji  j  Haw  ddiawl 

90  Alleh:  Mae  lief  cer  mae  llii'eiriant  .  . 
i  f o   /  n  /  y  try  fenaid  /  traw, 

ebrwydd  y  doeth  o  brvdd  dal     . 
drvgaredd  a  diwedd  da 

Mewn  llwyddiant  Jraclnvant^llvdd  adyfyd  di  kofia  &c. 

I5gc).     Marys  Wyn 
96  Jrlunsmyn:  pan  ddangoso  rrvw  dro  rrydd     .... 

Haw  fair  dros  bob  Hafvrwr  IVn  goch  amhevric  hen* 

99  fr  segvryd:  mae  /  n  /  Ehaid  gwrleithiaw  mewn  rbith 
inn  dvTv  ir  archwn  yn  dwyn 

103       Pand  angall  na  ddyallwn     .     .     . 
gar  Haw  yno  ir  llywenydd 

106  llyvia  gomjth  y  kydynos  hadenoc 
Tyfodd  yn  rryd  tan  ofwy 
ddiaugk  o  kerdd  y  ddaiar 

110      bwriais  sorch  heb  i  erchi     .     .     . 
ysgwypo  bono  fy  haint 


93 


95 


John  ab  howel 

ll'n  ah  gvtyn 

gt'to  j  r  j  glyn 

Mredydd  ab  Rys 


P 


Sion  JPhilip 
Syr  dd:  trejcr 

ll'n  goch  amhevric 


IVn  moel  or  pantri 


*  (Jfolo  goch  laedd  Uyfrau  eraill.) 


574  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  93. 

Ill       Gwae  fab  ddvriaid  was  trasyth     ....  a 

a  drws  gwichiedydd  ar  dro  dd:  ah  gwilym 

113  (fy  ner  ior  tyner  am  naf  fy  nvdd  &c.     i^oO.  maris  wyn)  h 

114  Y  fvu  glaer  fwn[vv]gl  evvaid     ....  c 
i  mi  mae  /  n  /  gvvaetha  y  mod                       d^:  ah  gwilim 

115  Barnad  Gwilim  fychan  "  canwyll  Brecheiniog '' 

Och  ddiiw  nad  atebwch  ddim     ....  d 

nach  gweled  yn  iach  Gwilim  Hugh  kae  llwyd 

118  &  138  (Duw  ion  dirion  ior  ner  naf  am  nvdd  &c.  -1626.    Moris  wyn)    c 

1 19  Moliant  James  Phillips  o  LanRhaiadr  ymochnant 

Mai  kynydd  tir  mael  kenych     ....  / 

kynes  borth  kannoes  i  bych  lOog.  Rys  Cain 

121  Mol:  gwilim  las  ab  llewelynn  "welwyd  hyd  v.ailawr." 

Gwaedoliaeth  a  gyd  wiliwnn     ....  g 

gwaed  wilim  hyd  gydweli  Jevan  tew  hrydydd 

124  Dewi  acliybi  achvbant  Rhag  poenav     ....  h 
ar  saith  a  Rifodd  y  ser 

h.       Neidies  a  bwries  heb  orwydJ  tana     ....  i 

dros  Aber  nodwydd  Givalchmai  ab  Meilir 

c.       Edrach  yngharad  dan  fyng  wallt     ....  ^ 

fo  fv  well  fyn  rliemyn 
Y  mae'n  llwyd  He  bv  felyn 
nid  fel  avr  da  ir  a'r  dyn     .... 
ni  cholles  .  .  nam  gwely,  nam  ty,  nam  tan.     „        „ 

125  Merddyn  Wyllt  mawr-ddawn  i  waith     ....  / 
fo  a  wna  /r  /  ynys  yn  vniaith      dd:  llwyd  ab  U'n  ab  gr  : 

128  Pe  bay  /r/  byd  i  gyd  ar  garn  nid  ystig  &c.  Anon  m 

b.  Jr  twrhi :  Gwr  grym  gair  groiwgrym  goroigriw  &c.  n 

Ho:  ap  5'"  Mathew 

c.  Ond  rhyfedd  wybrwyr  Ehvfen  oi/gwers     ....  o 
ag  ni  wn  banner  gwcb  der  gwen                                 Anon 

d.  O  gwnaethoch  chwy  gynrhy  fel  am  &c.       Tho:  Bridiidd  p 

129  ?  glynog :  He  i  bv  ffrwyth  Iv  perifeitblawn  dolwyth  &c.         q 

{lems)ap  hughe 
h.      Tomas  kv  evrwas  om  kerwch  /fanwyl  &c.  r 

Tho:  ap  Wm:  o  karreg  hofa 

c.  Pvr-barabl  gwnstabl  gwr  gwycb  .  .  ton;as  &c.  s 

Lewes  ap  Hughe 

d.  'fn  Greeke  ^  be.seoke  see  others  &c.  Lewes  ap  hughe*   t 

e.  O  gwelwch  rew  jvj  gwilie  a  chilwg  &c.  ,       Anon  u 

f.  Anfydrwydd  arwjdd  eiriav  a  gweithied  &c.    \_^ Moris  wyn]  v 

130  Tridie  or  silie  y  sydd  trwy  Aphric  &o.  Dd:  Nanmor  to 

b.  Gwecli  ir  lleuad  newid  3  gwaith  arol  y  kalan  y  3  sul  a     ,r 
fvdd  ddie  pasc  &c. 

c.  Lewis  mae  /n/  well  o  lawer  am  hynuy  &c.  Anon  y 
<^-  J  M^^  grythor :  Blaidd  rudd  anvfvdd  ddyn  ofer  /  z 

gev  ddyn     .... 
i  gyw  /r/  wydd  a  gae  roddion.  /  „ 


*  «  Curat  de  Uanrhayadr  1609,"  added  in  a  later  hand.    The  1609  is  apparently 
altered  into  1090  in  the  same  ink. 


THE  DOOK  OF  KADWALADB  WrXN.  675 

131  Mayr  yr  ebyd  orbyd  mavr  bwyd/mavr  byrddav  &c.  a 

b.  afrwyiog  .  torrog  .  taer  frwnt  /  yw  /  r  /  byd  hwnn  b 

s'  lewis  (lb  litigh 

c.  Aeth  y  kornwyd  llwyd  a  Uv  o  ddinion     ....  c 
nod  y  bayr  ne^vydio  bid                                              John  teg. 

d.  Ond  barieth  heleth  yw  hyn  diiw,  ]fessv  &c.  d 

Tho:  Wms;  o  garreg  hofa 

132  Y  Haw  /a/  dorrodd  y  llwyn     ....  e 
jy I  Ihyn  am  dori/r/  glyn  glas                           Tomas prijs 

134  Barnad.  sion  salbri  o  rug  Qt60i). 

O  ddu[w]  dad  pa  fyd  ydivv     ....  / 

i  gvvelom  bawb  i  gilydd  Sion  Tfidi'ir 

139  .K.  hanmol  a  chyngor  i  John  salbri  i  ddewis  gwraig  ddu 

y  Hew  or  rvc  gar  llawr  allt     ....  g 

aeth  gras  a  duw  ith  groisi 

aed  ar  dduw  dad  durddo  di.  Sion  Tiidi'tr. 

143  K.  hjnghoriis  ifogeliidpedair  math  ar  wragedd. 

Mawr  oedd  hap  gwr  adnapai    ....  h 

moddiou  gvvael  madde  i  ni  gyd  Ris  ab  ?  Hari 

14G  Jr  aradr  :  y  diindod  am  kyfodes     ....  i 

kroes  duw  gwyn  kroesed  y  gwyr./  lewis  glyn  Kothi 

149  II  llan  gydwaladr  .     .     ii» 

„     kedwyn  .  .  .  v' 

„     trillo       .  .  .  vu]' 

„     myllinff  .  .  .  v*  x'' 

Mali  v^  Kobert  x'  katrin  morgan  x'  &c.,  &o, 

bvdawl  I   pob  vn  or  hain  a  gant  geniog 

tabler  f  a  ohanv  oi  sefyll 

krythwr  tri  thautj 

150  Bvdvr  di  gymhesvr  gymhisiwn  trawslid     ....  m 
chwe  chyfell  gan  gwell  nag  e         1599-     D.  ap  dd:  lloyd 

152  hawdd  ymgael  heddyw  am  ged  &c.  Oiv:  gwynedd  n 

b.  a  wnol  gogan  ag  anair  am  ogan  gogan  a  gair  Gr,  liiraythog  o 

c.  Ni  bv  gythrel  direl  dyrys  erioed  &c.  Anon  p 

d.  drwg  dybys  hastrys  arwystra  kellwer  Ac.  „      q 

e.  lleban  di  arian  ond  aros  raeddwi  &e.  Roger  Keffin  r 

153  Mar:  dev  fab  Jefan  Mred:  ap  Jen:  ay  Res,  -/57p. 

Y  meibion  yn  i  mebyd     ....  s 

vry  i  adael  yn  lie  i  vrodyr  .  .  75^2  .    Rys  Kain 

J  59  TLyma  lyfyr  hoioydde  r  hwn  sydd  yn  eiddo  t 

Kydwalad  wynn  or  tyn  yfron  goch 
o  blioy  llanrhaiad  yinogh.  nant 
a  skrifenwyd  o.lt.  139^. 

b.  llyma  gafod  ddiarfod  ddv  o  genllysc  &c.  .  1S66  .  syr  hugh  u 

c.  Adam,  Noe,  Abram,  moesen  wybrwr  doeth  &c.  Anon  v 

d.  pedair  merch  iowair  ym  harch  wiwnod  hoen  &c.  „      iv 

e.  kyflownder  air  per  er  pvraw  gwir  enw  &c.     dd:  Nanmor  x 

f.  henaint  aeth  am  braint  am  brig  a  Iwydodd  &c.         Anon  y 


Meifod      .  .  X' 

Uaniengel .  vij' 

Uanwddyn  .  x' 

silin       .     .  .  XXI] 


676  PENIAflTH  MANUSCRIPT  93. 

160  Yr  ystwyll  ganwyll  dec  ionawr  ar  havl  &e.     dd;  nanmor  a 

b.  Oed  ner  mil  a  haner  mal  hyn  mawr  alaeth  b 
marfoleth  sion  evtva  &c.           -ISSlf.                             Anon 

c.  JTrexham  steeple :  Pen  fwried  klochdv  poen  niferoedd  ir  Ilawr  o 

a  rhoi  /r/  Hall  lie  /r/  ydoedd  &c.  7507. 

161  A  fragment  (lS  lines)  ending  : 

■wrth  air  ^erwerth  o  warwig  d 

dydd  drwg  a  diwedd  dyroD;an  yngholbrwg     .... 
ai  diwedd  hwy  fo  /  r  /  dydd  hwn      dd;  llwyd  ap  U'n  ap  gr: 

163       Adrodd  y  gvvir  drwy  ddvw  a  gaf  e 

ai-  y  byd  nid  arbedaf    .... 
aflan  ydoedd  flinedig 
arfei-  ar  dduw  gwener  gig    .... 
ym  rown  i  droi  mawr  yw  yn  drwg  Jeiian  Tew 

167       Beynydd  i  bvm  yu  poini     ....  / 

i  ddayrv  ni  ddorwnu  dd:  ap  gwilim 

169  Mol:  sion  salbrtj  o  leweni  . 

Y  dewr  gwrol  dwy  gariad     ....  g 
bid  i  bawb  adnabod  i  benn                       Simwnt  fyclian 

174  jfr  hyd :  Ystvdio  i  ddwy  was  didwyll    ....  A 

i  aswy  ami  ^essu  amen  Sion  kent . 

180  ^  ofvn  march  i  Rob:  Salbri  o  Rvg  tros 
gawen  gwdmon  o  Rvthvn  . 

Y  gwir  sydd  a  gras  iddaw     ....  i 
[ni]  fedd  goes  heb  lynkoes  Ian  ||        (1.  80) 

183       II  torri  yn  ol  ond  trvan  oedd     ....  k 

anrreithiwyd  pawb  yn  KbvtLvn  ***** 

185       Y  ddevwr  arglwyddiaidd     ....  I 

i  gadw  aelwyd  gydwaladr  Robin  ddv 

188       Pwy  J^'^JT^I  saith  syn  peri  son     ....  m 

da  mwyn  deg  dyw  ai  mendio         .  159^  .    Sion  Mmvddwy 

193  Kytcyddeui  Cydiealadr  Wynn,fab  JIvw,  or  Vron  goch 

Yr  hydd  ir  gwych  rhwydd  ar  gant     ....  n 

was  gwych  hiroes  ag  iechyd  .  75p7  .     Sion  Moicddwy 

197       Y  karw  gwynn  kai  wyr  gennyd     ....  o 

paved  ytt  hap  a  hiroes  .  1600  .     '^Rys  Cain 

303  The  names,  &c.  of  the  signs  of  the  Zodiac  in  Welsh  by  Lewis 
Pughe 

204  Ysgol  gam  letgam  Iwytgarth  /  i  /  cherig  i&c.  dd:  Cadicaladr.  p 
b.   atteb:  Ysgol  Ian  &c.      imperfect  Edic:  Cadwaladr  q 

205  ?  ofyn  gwenin  i  Kadwaladr  wynn 

Y  karw  glan  pob  kow3T  glod     ....  r 
A  raeddwi  gvi^lad  mewn  medd  glynn       'ts^k .  Roger  Keffin 

210  Rob.  Wynne  ap  John  W.  ap  Mred:  ap  Jev.  ap  Rob:  .ap  Eneon       s 
c.    Gwilim  Powys  had  on  sonne  naralie  Meredyth  who  had  three 

sonnes  Gwilim  .  Hughe  .  Uewelyn  ,  &c.  t 

211  II  Uyw  a  gorodd  y  noddyn  |  y  mor  koch     ....  « 
ar  dda  mwy  ond  ar  ddyw  mawr                                   Anon 


THE  BOOK  OF   KADWALADR  WYNN.  577 

212  Rhospwyd  i  Sem  yr  Asia  /  rhan  kv  &c.  Anon  a 

b.  A  gadwo  dvw  heddyw  a'r  hoiwddydd  /  gwynn  &c.  „  b 

c.  J  defnyu  dwr  droppin  a  drippio  /  ar  gwr  &c.  „  c 

d.  ni  wnel  gyngor  rhagor  rimg  rhiw  gam  dwyll  &c.  „  d 

e.  if  yffern  gethern  garw  atlirist/  desgyunodd  &c.  „  e 

213  Digam  i  gwuaeth  dvw  gyinwyll     ....  f 
Dvw  ai  gvvnawd  an  dwg  i  nef .                           folo  Goch 

216      Dis  yw  /  r/  byd  os  arbedwn     ....  g 

ar  dda  mwy  ond  ar  ddvw  mawr  Sioti  Tvdvr 

219  J  ddiffeithwch  y  byd  ag  addvned  yr  Ened  i  ymadel 

ag  efo  ;  Y  tir  ail  Uety  /r/  helwyr     ....  h 

dy  help  i  ymado  a  liwn  Edmwnd  Prys 

223  y  byd  etto:  Dywedais  nid  a  i  wadv     ....  i 

dy  help  i  fyned  i  liwn  „ 

227  Mar:  Gr:  Hir :  Y  bardd  bach  vwch  beirdd  y  byd  ....  h 

keidwad  dyn  kadwed  d'enaid 

jf  Morgan  up  Rob:  ap  Reinallt  (o  Franas  ucha,  llandrillo)  . 
231       Wrth  weled  prvdded  pob  bro     ....  / 

draw  well  well  yn  llann  drillo  Simivnt  vychan 

235       Dvw  orvchel  drwy  iechyd     ....  m 

dy  gynnal  mewn  digonniant  Edwart  ap  Eapli 

241  Mol:  Dd:  lloid  ap  fVm:  ofaes  mochnant 

Y  gwr  Uwyd  teg  ieirllwaed  da     ...     .  n 
Davydd  iraidd  benndeiig                               Sion  mowddwy 

245  O  bym  dinkerdd  chwerwgerdd  chwith  ....  o 
tinkerdd  ni  bydd  benkerdd  byth                    John  moicthwy 

246  Mol:  morgan  ap  Robert  "  Uin  branes  " 

Y  gwr  0  ryni  mewn  gwir  raid     ....  p 
dyn  siwr  Eoed  deinioes  yr  hawg                       Robart  Jfan 

251  (gr:  or  Ryddallt  a  beriodes  Elissabeth  mj  arg:  ystraens  &c.)        q 

252  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Res  ap  jfeu:  ap  ll'n  o  Lanrhaiadyr  .  15C)1  . 

Bann  dreier  rhit'er  befyd     ....  r 

hael  naf  bowel  i  nefoedd  Rys  Kain 

25G       pei  gayllwu  noddwn  didifor  &c.  Jeu:  llafar  s 

b.      Lewis  a  widdiad  lawer  o  bynykiav  &c.         Moris  berwyn    t 
257       Doeth  yw  mab  yspryd  a  thad     ....  m 

a  gwledtl  i  mab  farglwydd  amen  Dd:  ap  Edmwnl 

261  Mol:  Owen  ap  gr : — Y  karw 'Jfank  ar  afaidd  ....  v 

yw  r  nod  air  arnad  owen  hvio  arwystl 

264  Mol:  Owen  vaughan :  Y  glain  difalch  glan  dyfiad  ....  to 
Owain  wych  evrkain  i  chwi  Edw:  mavlor 

269  Y  7  bechod  marfol :  Meddylio  am  eddoli     ....  x 

wrth  raid  im  henaid  amen .  Dd:  ap  gu-ilim 

271       Kredaf  i  naf  o  nefoedd     ....  y 

a  mair  ac  nid  Raid  ini  mwy .  „  „ 

273       Howel  wyt  fyw  hael  hyd  fedd     ....  z 

a  ddiango  yu  beiddio  byddin 
ni  bv  drwch  yn  wyneb  y  drin     .... 
mae  son  ...  am  y  bais  hen  ym  hob  sir     ...     . 
trelia  /  r  /  wise  trwy  lawer  oes    imperfect      ?  Rob:  Maelan 


578  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS  93-94. 

276  ui  all  gelyn  dyn  ydwaened  i  waith  &c.  Anon  a 

b.  ni  chordiai  a  devbeth  awcliivdeb  bytlx  &c.  fi 

c.  tri  ffvmp  iv\T  tymp  ar  tai  yn  weigion  &c.  c 

d.  pan  fo  prif  yr  hif  ar  iaith  ar  goll  &c.  d 

277  kanaf  a  dvnaf  mewn  doniav  yt  wr  &c.            Rob:Maelan 
b.  llhoed  gwyrddrn  bvn  a  byd  |  i  Gadwaladr  &c.  f 


278  f  werfyl  ferch  hoioel  fychan 


e 
S''  Lewys  ap  hughe 

Kla  wyfi  eisie  kael  ferch     ....  „ 

ar  fol  bol  y  baiol  bid  ■      Dd:  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr: 

280  Atteb :  kenqd  wyf  a  wna  kynen     ....  ^ 

meddylgar  yw  am  ddeilgoed  {|  (i.  23) 


MS.  94  =  Hen.  412.  Peophecies  and  Poetry  of  a  very 
miscellaneous  and  "  scrappy  "  kind,  the  whole  being  in  the  autograph 
of  Sir  Thomas  Wiliems,  physicwr.  Paper  ;  7f  X  5|-  inches  ;  264  pages ; 
bound  in  white  vellum. 

i.  Annerch  gaer  vcinir  gwyr  vyniw  ganwaith  &c.  ddi  ap  Edmwnd  i 

b.  yn  rhad  lieb  gennad  vn  gwr  oi  raddaA  &e  .  Anon,  k 

c.  chwe  rhyw  varthyroliaeth  yssydh:  diweirdeb  mewn  ieunctit  &c.  / 

d.  Hawdh  amor  rhagor  rhiagl  Gymro  »i 

gwaewlj'm  Gwillim  hael  vap  Alio  &o.  Henuriat  ae  cant 

e.  Pan  geisier  dd:  Gam  dala  O.  Glyndwr  ymachynllaeth 

Davydh  Gam  dryglam  dreigldhyn  &c.  •  « 

ii.         Ceisi'er  tra  seilier  troshoeliaw  y  drvsau    ....  o 

fo  ar  gair  drwg  drwy'r  vagwyr  draw  .  Anon, 

b.  J  fthel  ap  dd:  o  Gaervallwch  yn  llan  Eurgain  am  dyngv  anvdon. 

Jthel  val  gefel  a  gair  y  dyngv     ....  p 

baw  wcdy'r  elych  yr  bedh..  JoZo  Goch  ne  D.  ap  Edm: 

c.  nyd  y  ci  earth  val  arthvloch     ....  q 

yr  hai  a  ladhodh  yr  hwch  .  J.  Goch 

d.  phidodes  oedh  dad  phidodyn  &c.  r 
iii,      dasjer  drwy  goler  dy  galon  ar  osgo  &c.  Ge'vulMechain  yw  gwr  am  ei  churo    s 

b.  Serch  wylo  gwylio  o  gilwo  ....   garllec  gwin  coch  ( 

mer  moch  mwc  /  yw  naw  gelyn  y  golwc  .  Anon 

c.  yr  hon  ar  gwedlif  medh  yr  henwr  doeth    ....  u 

gwyda   gwyrdh  gwydr  ag  ocrdhwr  . 

d.  y  D.Benvras  wrth  ynill  y  maes  yn  Rosur :  Can  gwell  Caer  Gadell  w 

cair  vrwydiaw  gweilch  pan  dhel  gwalch  glan  Alaw  &e. 

e.  yr  ail  maes  pan  ei  lias  y  canwyd  hwn. 

lias  davydh  Benvras  Has  yn  ardwy  (gwyr       Has  eryr  taladwy  w 

Has  arglwydh  mawr  gwawr  Gornwy  lladhiad  pawb  a  wydhiad  pwy. 

/.  Moes  gilsan  ym  rhan  aro  hwy  (moes  vil  x 

moes  dwyvil  moes  deiivwy  &c.  Gr:  Gryc 

g.    Yspryl  wrth  spio  Gruff:  Maeloer  yn  dyvod  a  Gae'r  Tervyn 

dyweid  yth  arglwydh  rwydhwas  fod  deulu  dig  yw  aros  &o.  Anon,  y 

iv.        Ceir  tre  a  He  a  Han  (a  maenol  >v  mynydh  y  truan  &c.      Hobin  dhu  z 

b.  davydh  Gam  lingam  vileingin  (goleso  a 

gelyn  Eichard  vreniu  &c.  Gr:  ap  Ow:  Gethin 

c.  0  gweli  di  wr  coch  cam  yn  ymofyn  esgyrnio  wen  &c.  O.  Glyn  dwr  b 

d.  Mae  i  mi  vab  a  vydh  Abad  nyd  gwaeth  ei  dadmaeth  nai  dad  &c.     o 

Daboganeu. 

1  Meibion  moelion  a  vydh  alltiidiou     ....  d 
gwae  ef  ai  gwnaeth  hinod  hud  arvaeth  raaraaeth  A.  Vras 

2  Bardh  hvnawc  oediawc  ad  wen  dy  henw     ....  e 
yvvein  a  vydh  ettoii,  ywein  a  rydh  gwared 

am  dir  y  vrython.  Taliesin 


Y  BEBGAM,  MERDPIN,  TALIESIN.  579 

4  Bydhawd  clau  clywid  chwedleu  gan  chwedleydh  ....        a 
no  or  plas  evi  rliyas  rhygilioii 

b.  Pan  ganer  Cora  cynwr  ymliripbordh  gynthwr     .      .     .     ,  b 
ywein  pen  darogan  pan  draetha  treitliit  diiw  ehvnan  A.  V. 

c.  Gw^^lwyr  parth  pyrth  rhatlon  ai  gwj"!  pan  hwylion  ...      c 
y  gymyniad  rag  y  dad  dalon  Taliesin 

5  Atnliw  blaen  coed  hoed  huedron,  d 

ami  vyd  dreigiav  ymlaen  dragon  (fee.  ,, 

b.  dai-oganaf  y  rhuwynt  ar  hynt  yr  GrOgUdh  &c.  ,,  e 

c.  Brenhin  byrh  ei  hyrh  ai  hyder  y  Bard/i  Bergam  j 

d.  0.  ^esu  am  cydvydh  Christiawn  am  gogawu  ara  gwybydii  .  .  g 
archent  drugaredh  cyn  diwedli  y  dydh  .  Taliesin 

6  Ys  rbyvedh  genyf  yr  haf  hirvelyn  &c.  „         h. 

b,      Ath  ogyvarchaf  vrenhin  am  vyd  gorvydhin  ....  i 

a  gwae  y  Saeson  pan  eft  gwypon  .  „ 

7  Ath  ogyvarchaf  ben  gogyvarchwr     ....  k 
ac  ar  bob  rhiw  rhawd  o  gicvrain                                   „ 

8  Tarsv  cornioc  o  Vrutus  o  dad  i  dad  Califra  o  vamwys  &c    / 

b,  Saith  dadoliaith  llaith  mab  Henrhi  &c.  Taliesin  m 

c.  yr  hydh  y  govynnaf  pa  ryw  haf  vydh  hwn  &c.         „         n 

9  Gweleis  morawd  ac  adhoed  yspydhawd  &c.  „  o 

b.      Coronoc  vaban  ymlaen  llu,  gwr  yw  dnw  hawdh  ei  garu  .  .     p 
crededvn  vydh  iach  rydh  gwared  gweryd  .  Taliesin 

10  Ordhod  vron  gorvod  gwilliw  adar     ....  q 
gwyn  y  vyd  Cymru  or  dydhawt  /                                  „ 

11  Ordhot  vron  gorvot  hebrryw  dhygymot     ....  r 
gwn  y  voli  moliant  oesawr                                               „ 

b.      pan  dhel  gwyniou  gynavon  y  greigiav  Brytaen  &c.  A.  Vras   s 

12  pvm  mlynedh  a  vydh  hyd  atvydh  vrenin  &c.  A?ion   t 

b.  lleopard  a  gyvyd  yr  hwn  a  vydh  cryf  anveitrawl  &c.  Tal.  u 

c.  Coronos  vaban  y[n]  y  dyhedh     ....  v 

oil  o  dorri  rheged  a  chred  ^euan  .  Anon 

13  Mad  dhyvydh  llu  diergryd  ar  veirch  prennav  &c.         „      w 

b.      yr  hen  wriawl  iar,  y  march  canwelw  a  yrachwel  x 

afon  Berydh  Ac.  „ 

14  Hil  Gynvyn  cadarn  baladr  cedyrn  y  ceidw  y  dervyn  &c.    (31)   y 

b.      Yr  hydh  ar  vynydh  opha  o  awydh  ymdaraw  yn  z 

rhyd  nys  rhyvedha  &c.  „ 

15  Tri  adhawd  vynhavawd  ef  a  berir     ....  a 
ac  ywein  vydh  pawb  ai  gwybydh  ac  ai  gwylia     (33)         ^^ 

16  Gwybydh  vod  val  truth  yn  troi  traymchwelav  ...  b 
rhan  o  wledh  oessedh  heb  dhim  eisiav.    (34)         B.  Bergam 

b.      pan  gyvotto  main  Gwynedh  oi  gorwedhva  ....  c 

ac  or  diwedh  yr  mor  y  gyrrir     (35-G)  Taliesin 

17  Arwydhion  yw  rhain  gan  y  gogoniant     ....  d 
bievydh  y  goron  ar  holh  geyrydh  .     (37)               Merdhin 

18  Moch  dhaw  byd  ynglierydh  yngradhau  carant  ....  e 
Ywein  gwedy  biav  Cymru  Cymro  liyvryd.     (38)       Taliesin 


580  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  94. 

19  Ef  a  dliaw  Rhys  a  wna  gwys  o  gyvan  &c.  a 
b.      Gwedy  roter  y  bedhau  ymonwent  goifrau  &o.        Taliesin  b 

c.  E  testiolaeth  o  Beiitraeth  y  bentref  Rydychen  ac  ywein  vydh  &c.  c 

20  Atvydh  Rhys  ap  Rhys  a  dyvyn  a  gwys  a  rhyvel  ar  vrys  d 
liyd  vro  Chestre  ...  a  gwaith  y  Beirdh  a  bery  Taliesin 

b.      Bydhawd  Eryr  yn  wir  ar  dir  dewi     ....  e 

a  gwyr  yo  wir  o  dir  traet  pali  Adha  Vras 

21  Hoean  borchellaa  ando  dir  eilon  &c.  / 

b.  Hari  wedy  r  hwff  ar  haragof  ar  angen  &c.  g 

c.  Christ  ]fesu  celi  y  ti  coeliaf h 

ond  mi  Taliesin  nyd  oes  gyvarwydh  Taliesin 

22  Cyvyd  y  Bwcli  iir  Blaidh  a  chariat  yn  rhin  &c.  i 

b.  moch  dhyvydh  ynwrf  dhyvrys  ovalaiu  &c,  k 

c.  diargel  rhyvel  rhwyf  am  dhwylan  Gonwy  &c.  / 

23  ordhot  vron  gorvot  galon  dorri  &c.  tn 

b.  pan  vo  rhudh  rhedyn  a  choch  y  celyn  y  daw  ....  n 

Ow:  lawgoeh  &c.  Taliesin 

c.  Avallen  bereia  beraf  ei  haerou  &c.  o 

d.  C!yu  awr  diiygyvawr  am  dhigyving  &c.  Adka  Vras  p 

24  Tri  sant  a  gyvyd  yr  byd  or  bedh  &c.     (53)  Anon,  q 

25  pau  dhel  am  Awst  gynawst  newydh  &c.  Merdin  r 

h.      pa  bryd  y  daw  arvysc  dervysc  ar  Saeson  &c.        Taliesin  s 

c.      pan  dhel  arnon  hen  arwydhion     ....  t 

a  gwragedh  gwedhwon  a  gwyr  moelion 

26  Am  gyvodi  Rys  a  brys  eiriau  &c.  u 

b.  Yn  amser  Gr ;  ap  U'n  Sissillt  .  .  ydhoedh  daA  vidtiwr  ma^vr  ynghymrii  .  . 
Gronw  dhu  oedh  ya  hir  Mon,  Ac  Adha  vras  oedh  yn  trigaw  isconwy  yn  Ihe  n  elwir 
Aber  Uechoc  yn  y  man  y  peris  ef  ei  gladhu ynghylch  1038 

27  Pan  vo  lloegr  heb  gyngor  ag  angor  ar  longav  ....         v 
yna  gwnant  eiicil  ar  hil  Henri.  Hfies  Vardh 

b.      E  dhaw  Mai  gwaetlyt  o  vlaen  y  die  ^eii  dii  &c.      „        „       tu 
28  Dechreu  llyver  merdin  WYLLTyn  dangos pwy  a  wladyclia  byth 
yn  ol  eu  gilydh:  Yn  gynta  Eirda,  Coel  Cymry  yw  bi  .  .  .  .  ends: 
A  gwedy  hyny  Ceneu  Henri  yn  y  oes  nyd  oes  waret  val  y 

canlyn  yma*  yn  yr  hen  Copi  Sfc. 

29  Merdhin  TFyllt  a  Giveudhydh  ei  chvoaer.         See  also  p.  113. 

byt  can  gwSost  y  ystyr  x 

pwy  vvledych  wedy  Bryhyr     .... 
gogelet  duw  o  wendydf 

33       Avalhen  beren  hirwen  o  vlodeft     ....  y 

a  gwneuthur  o  wyllt  gwallt  hinonj 

3G       Oyan  a  borchellan  oed  reit  gweiSi     ....  z 

ac  yraladh  yn  daer  am  dhwylan  dywi.§        Merdin  Wyllt 


*  Nothing  follows  in  this  MS.,  but  about  a  third  of  the  page  is  left  blank. 

t  Cf.  Skene's  Four  Ancient  Boohs  of  Wales,  vol.  ii,  pp.  224-233. 

X  Cf.  Myvyrian  Arch:  of  Wales,  vol.  i,  pp.  150-3,  stanzas  2-10,  12,  11,  22,  13-17. 

§  Ibid.,j>j>.  135-7, stanzas  4-10,  Oyan  a  barchellan  bydan  a  ddaw  /  a  rwyf  o  wynt 
a  ryfreu  o  law  /  a  rvyf  0  ereidyr  yn  rhyvoriaw  /  ac  ar  vwyt  y  tri  y  porthir  y  naw, 
12-18,  and  22. 


ADt)A  VRAS,   RUES   VARDD,   JlERDbiN   V^YLhT,  ETC.  oSl 

38        Mil  a  600  ai  wrautA  (yw  edrych  /  vydh  oedran  yr  -FcBfi  a 

pau  dhel  nyd  rhaid  ci  geW  /  am  yr  hen  I'ydh  y  tlydh  dii     liobin  dhu 
b.        I'lif  ar  bvmp  j w'r  tymp  ar  tai  (yn  weigion)  yn  agos  i  Glamal  &c.  b 

39  A  prophecy,  mosthj  in  prose,  concerning  Henry  vi, 
liichard  in,  Henry  vii,  Henry  vm,  Edward  vi,  Marti,  and  (at 
great  length)  Elizabeth  . 

O  Albion  of  all  landes  pleasant  to  behold    .... 
rejoice  that  sight  to  see,  &  shall  the  betre  for  yt  to  die.* 
51   Cato's  advice   to  his  son  (see  Fen:    MS.  3)  .-  Na  ddyret  ar 

Gyngor  onyth   elwir  &c ends:  Ar  Cynghoreu   hyup   a 

elwir  Cynghoreu  Cato  Hen  yn  dyscii  cadw  ieuane  y  vap  .  .  .  .Ac 
nas  dvvc  anghyngor  vyth. 

63  Pei  bai  Calan  Mai  nyd  man  (osodiad)  &c.      L.  Glijn  Cothi  c 

64  Oian  borchellan  bydan  a  vydh     ....  d 
Escyp  nnghyfieith  dipheilh  diphydh.                         Taliesin 

b.      Amser  yr  Egroes  oes  eisiwedig  &c.  &c.  &n.  e 

65  Gwedy  rodcr  y  bedheu  ym  monwent  Gorbre / 

bit  Jlawen  wedy  die  nadolic  / 

b.      pan  dhel  gwynion  gynafon  y  greigie  brytaen  yna'r  ynilad-  g 
hant  .  .  .  .  ar  tir  ai  gwnel  ai  tervyscaut.        Ada  Vras 

66  Rho  duw  genedl  rhaid  Gwynedh  h 
braint  mawr  brutus  glodvawr  gledh     .... 

vn  dinv  gwir  yn  daw  g wared  Hwlcyn 

G8       y  gleisiad  hediad  hoewdec i 

trwy  amarch  ai  try  ymaith  dd:  lloyd  ap  U'n  ap  Gr: 

70       deiiall  y  bvm  dull  y  byd     ....  k 

gedwch  hyii  duw  gyda  chwi       Dd:  JLoyd  ap  U'n  ap  Gr: 

72       Quuni  Comix  maior  crescit  tunc  Anglicus  honor  &c.  / 

b.      dynion  a  vawr  son  over  serth  &c.  /S".  Leiv.  J.  Jencyn 

73  Giceledigacth   S.  Paid :    Diw  Siil    ysyd  dyd    etholedic    gan 

diiw  yn  yr  hwfi  y  llawenhaa  yr  eneitieu  yn  vwy  noc  yn  y  dydieu 

ereill ends :  pwy  bynac  o  honoui  a  gly wo  y  drygeu  hynn,  ni 

a  dylcwn  ymchwelut  ar  ein  arglwyd  duw  iit.  niegis  ac  y  caphom  ygyt 
ac  e£  buched  dragywyd  hep  dranc  na  gorpheu.  Amen.  See  MSS.  H 
p.  1.51,  &  15  p.  8  above. 

78  Copula  carnalis  fit  interdicta  sodalis  &c. 

80  The  Prophecic  of  Merline  of  Chalidone  concerning  the 
"Virgine  Queene"  "R.R.";  -'KB.";  "a  reiale  G";  "a  dreadfull 
dragon "  ;  "a  Cock  with  a  beard " ;  "  the  Gryphon,  the  lione  & 
whyte  greyhond  "  &c. 

84  Kyng  Vortiger  asked  JVIerlinc  who  should  be  six  of  the  best 
Kynges  in  England  &c. 

85  Further  prophecies  concerning  "Talpa"  nnd '' Nemo,"  "the 
riale  prince,"  '■' tlu'ee  yceres  of  great  battles,"  "the  church,''  and 
"  heretices." 

88  Certain  sayings  of  Thomas  of  Ansterley,  John  of  Berlingetou, 
S.  Thomas  of  Carterburie,  William  the  abbot  of  Ireland,  William 
Ambrose,  Thomas  of  Asheton,  Salomon,  Mahomet,  S.  Bede,  John  do 
Kupe  scissa,  and  Brigit. 

*  It  ends  on  page  80. 


582  PENIA.RTH   MANUSflEIlT   94.  '  ■ 

93   These  armes  shall  prosper  in  England :  A  black  crow  &c. 

04       The  swane  shall  swyme  the  ryver  broad  a 

and  trouble  the  water  with  his  toe  &c. 

95  A  list,  in  alphabetical  order  of  the  birds,  beasts,  &c.  adopted  in 
heraldry  and  the  names  of  the  persons  who  have  adopted  them  on 
their  respective  shields. 

Antilope Heni'ie  8. 

Anchore  gyite L.  of  Lincolne,  &c.  &c, 

103  A  genealogical  chart  giving  the  "  descente  of  all  y°  kynges  of 
England  from  Wm:  the  Conqueror  .  .  to  this  present  yeere  .  .  1595 
by  me"  [John  Davies]. 

110  Latin  Extracts  entitled  Hisloria  Brytonica 

111  Oean  borchellan  borchell  gwine     ....  J 
gwillieid  ag  escymynieid  ai  gwasgaran  (7  stanzas), 

Merdin  IVyllt 

1 1 3  Scotland  a  gw$>n  tynghetven  maes  o  dwysawc  arbenic,  yr 
liwn  a  wysg  attaw  ehvn,  bob  lie  or  mor  bwygilydh  &c. 

1 1 4  Ilari  7  :  Hel  a  gaiph  dros  heli  ag   oii     .     .     .     .  c 

y  gwyr  ny  wyr  gair  on  iaith        dd:  lloyd  ap  IVn  ap  Gr: 

117    IJari  7  ••  Eunynwyd  tan  yn  ein  tir  .  .  d 

y  Crane  vyth  ei  nyth  yn  ol.  „  „ 

119  Ritsmwnt:  pan  vo  cyphro  yn  y  bryn  Cywoethawc  .  .  c 

ac  yn  niwedh  y  Saith  gwaith  anrhugarog'.  /    Adha  Vras 

b.      Hari  wedy  r  ing  ar  angen  a  rhag  ofn  yr  angen  &c.  Tal.  f 

120  Extracts  from  a  Latin  Chronicle  written  at  Madgebury 
before  100. 

121  f  n  Brytaine  this  Hand  that  men  caule  Albion  great  sorowes 
be  lyk  to  light  hym  on  a  beare  &c.     1552-3. 

6.  W.  fo  am  Benvio  yu  chwe  baii  |  hei  a  acth  jn  hai  weithian         L,  G,  Cotht   g 

c.  Bydau    bardh    yscolan    gynt  .  .  .  .  fo    gyvyd  ,  .  h 

gnawd  Twein  yn  y  diwedh  „  „ 

122  [Ow:  Glyndwi-] :  Map  y  dyu  sydh  ryvedh  ac  yn  y  brophetol- 
iaeth  yw  Sarogan  ymhob  He,  a  phawb  yn  ei  dharogan  yn  wr  marw, 
ag  yn  garw  deccainc,  ac  yn  Eryr  Glas  or  Glyn,  ac  yu  ywein  ac  yu 
Hew,  ac  yn  vaedh,  ac  yn  afr,  ac  yn  dwrch  daear,  ag  yn  oen,  ng  yn 
darw,  ag  yn  Geilioc.  Ac  nyd  yrhain  ydyw  y  pymthec  henw  a 
rocs  y  pymthec  Bardh  ar  vap  y  dyn  &c. 

b.  Prophetoliaith  y  wcnnol,  ag  Eryr  Caer  Septon. 

123  Hil  Evn  cvn  cain  arav     ....  t 
megys  nad  ebrwydh  deallt  wybrydh, 

121  Gwyr  Gwynedt ;  Gwyr  Gwynedh  hyfryd  yn  ael  hyfre  ....    h 
ef  a  vydh  cyfyng  cyngor  y  cor  goreu  Taliesin 

125  panna  chred  gwyr  Gwynedh  gwedh  gyvodi  ....  I 
Gwyuvydedic  ymdheithicc  am  flenoetbicoelvain  Adha  Vras 

126  llyma  byncieu  n  gyfoissi  Merdhin  Wyllt  a  Gwendyd: 

Yn  y  diwedh  or  pan  el  Cymru  heb  ganhorthwy  ....     m 
diofryd  y  bawb  a  gar.  "lal  or  blaen"     Cf.2<j  above. 

127  V  llco  ar  wadh :  pan  dhoter  gwerth  y  dhwyvuw  ar  yr  vn  a 
chroci  yr  avr,  yno  y  try  y  Hew  yn  wadh  vellticedic  ....  ends: 
Weithian  ccisiwch  angwancc  yn  Hyver  Merd:iu  ar  Ian  y  pwll.  Canys 


M.   WYLUT,   Y  BEUGAM,  TALIESIN,  ETC.  58S 

hyd  yma  yr  hebryngawa  Merftia  Wyllt  y  Gildas  ap  Caw  aprydain  y 
brophetoliaeth  weii  ac  nyd  a  ir  ymhellach. 

129  Ill/ma  vreudhivyd  Grono  dim  o  Von :  Gwr  eang  oedh  y 
dudiir  vychaa  ap  Grono  ap  Tudur,  yr  hwn  wr  oedli  lud;edic  wedy 
dyfod  o    lundaiu    wedy   liebrvvng   y    veistr    y    lys    pcnmynydh    ym 

M6n ends  :  yn  yr  amser  hwnvv  y  dnvynir  Cymru,  ac  y  cloigir 

lloegr,  a  dyn  ai  dyrne  n  dhrygiol  a  theruas  dhirol  a  welir,  a  rliyvedhod 
yn  agOS.  (See  }i.  nz  below.') 

132  Die  Sill:  Ar  y  dydh  y  gorphwysodh  ein  hai'glwydh  ui  Jesu 
Christ  yr  ymyscytwa  y  tyrchod  ac  y  syrth  y  gwonwyn  &c. 

^  1/  Bratot  Jeuan  drwch  y  daran 

133  Anwybod  y  bawb  pwy  ydyw  map  y  dyn  a  phwy  ydyw  y  wadh 
velldigedic  a  phwy'r  vorwyn  or  llwyn  Uwyt  &c.  Taliesin 

134  Edward  yv<^  hwn  aedh  gwrolaeth     .     .     .     ;  a 
dir  yw  eucil  ar  hil  Henri                                                  „ 

b.   Ygwrmarw.     (1)  Dewi  ai  gelwis  ef  mab  y  dyn     (2)  S.  Thomas 

ai  gelwis  ef  brenhiii  y  morwyndot ends:  (Lo)  Sibil   dhoeth 

ai  gelwis  ef  yr  ail  Ihew  o  vrytaen  vawr  .  Yr  hwn  a  ynill  y  4*  vendiceit 

135  Mur  ar  dir  hir  wedy'r  yradyn  ymdynnv  ....  b 
a  llawer  o  bobloed  a  drudaniaeth  heb  eisiae      jf.  Veudivy 

136  V  Cadae  ar  ymladae 

Gwyr  Men  a  w^l  ar  vn  pen  bryn     ....  c 

ac  yiia  cyrchant  Sinas  llundein 

ac  yna  y  gwnau  ywein  yn  vrenhin  ynys  Brydein  .... 
Tref  Beli  Hir  a  gysgoda  ynys  Brydein         Merctiit  fVyllt 

138  Bardh  yscolan  rhin  rhybudh 

y  Von  dirion  drefyd:  y  biidhaf  awenydh     ....  d 

yrhai  bievydh  tir  ynhendad  Scolan 

139  Cymydh  y  pedeir  llythyren  beii  bys — K.  y.  H.  J. 

pob  rhyw  vardh  a  wahardhawdh e 

gwylio  ar  K.  a  galw  ar  Y  JL'n  ap  feuan 

140  ILyuiaf  yn  y  gauaf  haf  discleirwyn  &c.  Anon  f 
b.       rhyvedh  y  diwedh  o  deuai  (ystwylD  &c.     1614  g 

141  Bardh  wyfi  yr  bcirdh  a  vydh     ....  h 
vab  y  dyu  yn  vab  yw  dad                           Edward  ap  Rhes 

142  Eryr  a  gyfyd  bryd  ym  mrython     ....  i 
pan  vo  truan  twrv  annodau                                      y  Bcryam 

b,  Arwydocaat  rhai  geirae  prophetoliaeth 

Y  Ceiiioc Brenhin  Frainc 

Y  ci brenhin  Sicili  &c. 

143  Ywein :  pan  goter  gwynion  belydr  ar  draeth  Beli  &c.     Tal.  k 

b.  pan  vo  rhudh  rhedyn,  a  choch  celyn  Stc.  Taliesin    I 

c.  pan  vo  vchaf  brig  ton,  pan  vo  llymaf  brie  onn  &c.      „         m 

d.  Prophetoliaeth  yr  vnicorn  {Gwyly  15  henw)  .-  Ef  yw'r  ail  .  Hew 
a  vwytae  n  Vawr  yr  hwn  a  ynill  y  Gross  Vendiceit  &c. 

144  jf  Dd:  0  Lnn  Dyvi  0  "  gorph  IL'n  vap  Gr:  " 

Da  vu  d'antur  wrth  guras     ....  n 

y  dhwedyd  pa  vyd  a  vo  Gr:  ap  IL'n  vychan 

146  Attcb :  Gruffydh  awenydh  vniawn     ....  o 

enwoc  wyrth  a  wna  gwrthie  dd:  Ihvyt  ap  ll'n  ap  Gr: 


584  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT  94. 

149  Gwelwch  rys  a  gwys  yu  gyfan  &c.  a 

b.  Gwedy  livnawc  liydli  goKidawc  &c.  h 

c.  Mai :  ymogelwch  ymarlwywch  Rac  mai  &c,  c 

d.  McrCtin :  darogan  MerSin  pen  aeth  ar  dervyn,  d 

ar  bawl  egored  y  bu  ei  dyuged     .... 

rlian  o  wledh  oeswledh  heb  eisieu  .  Taliesin 

150  Yr  haf  \i\Y  wnnawc  cyfodawc  duawc  a  dhaw  ....       e 
ai  difa  o  lawer  or  ecclwysau  „ 

b.  Bid  s  wydheles  ar  wedhillioii     ....  / 
Bid  yno  Gymro  yn  nyniryd  alltudion                            Anon 

c.  Mad  gludir  yn  wir  y  dir  Beuno  &c.  „       g 

d.  One  Sarph  ....  gwedy'r  Tarw  chweched  arwydh  h 
]f  dhiawl  y  Sais  dliala  swydh  . 

151  Crijnnodeb  Taliesin:  Gwylia  am  yr  haf  gwlybyroc  &c.  i 

b.  pan  vo  6620  .  .  o  .  .  Adliaf  liyd  yr  haf  hir  velyn  &c.       k 

c.  Ymdidan  rhwng    Merctin  a    Gicendyd  ym/hylch  yr   Eryr  I 
Mawr,  Onnenae  Meigiawn,    Cors    Volmo,  y  xii   Coron  hil  Rodri, 
Yr  Afon    Goch,    Gicaith  dovr,  y  Brynywyn,  y  Syberw   varchoc,  y 
IX    brenhin     Ccroncc,    S.    Siors    varchoc,    ar    Etewyn  tanllyt :  0 
Merilin  dec  vy  mrawd  .  0   Gwenflydh  dec  vy  chwaer_yrwy  fi   n 
digio   gan    dy    ysmahalrwydh    di     yn    ceisiaw    budhugoHaeth    yth 

giwdawd ends :   Ac  y  ti  yr  Eryr  or  Glj  n   y  mae  henw 

newydh ;  Canys  ti  a  elwir  y  pentewyn  tanllyt,  pan  vochwi  yn 
ymdhidhan  o'n  hiaith  ni  ymhob  iaith  .  A  thydi  sydh  arglwydh  arnomi ; 
eiriol  di  ar  y  draic  coch  vy  nerthu  i  estwng  yr  jfsrael,  canys  y  Saeson 
yw'r  Jsrael,  megys  y  dialwyd  traha'r  Brytanieit  gynt  or  blaen.     Merdin 

159  Pan  dliarfo  am  M[ari]  fo  dhaw  E[lsbeth]  yna  syrth  yr  ynys  m 
yr  van  isaf  /  yna  bydh  yr  ecclwys  yn  y  radh  orisaf  &c; 

163       Hari  Sant  hyf  yw'r  oes  hon     ....  n 

bid  dy  nai  ar  y  byt  hwnn  oil  Or:  ap  Dd:  vychan 

105       Amser  yr  hydli  y  bjdh  byd     ....  o 

ar  byd  a  dhygwydh  ar  ben  Robin  dhu 

168  Lindys :  Yn  niwedh  oes  salwedb  Saeson     ....  p 

a  gortrymir  ar  gadarn  tec  tec  vioydh  Mer/tin 

b.  vnair  yw  Mair  ai  morynion     ....  q 
a  lywodraetha'r  tir  mewn  gwirionedh                             „ 

167*      The  hare  shall  then  breed  at  the  hoate  stone     ....)• 
howe  he  went  vs  fro,  no  man  cane  tell   The:  of  Alskdown 

b.  ^5p.j-6.  When  Sonday  goeth  by  e.  d.  .  .  &  prime  by  one  &c.  s 

c.  burnys  ne  battailes  brytenet  sh.albe     ...  t 
ho  shall  honlde  vp  the  horne 

169  Eegnm  Scotorum  fuit  inter  cffitera  regn.a  &c.  u 

170  PacH    aeth  Cadioaladr  y  Huvain  o.c.  6S3  .  ,  yno  y  bu  vyw  v 
bvin  mlynedh  gyda  Sergius  bap  &c. 

b.  Byd  a  vydh  heb  wyut  heb  law     ....  io 
tir  digon  vn  erw  y  naw  &c. 

c.  Amliw  blaen  coet  hoet  hyvedran     ....  X 
nys  digret  dyn  byw  bot  a  wclan                           y  Bergam 

d.  Byd  a  vydh  bryd  wrtli  lyw  byw  &c.  Mcrdhin  y 
e  &  2Qi\,d.   niab  a  dhaw  y  gerSet  nos  &c,  „        z 


JOHN  BRIDLINGTON,   T.  OP  AESELDON  ETC.  585 

171  Beth  gwedy  y  chweclied  Hari  rliy  /  rliyfawr  dralia  ...      a 
ywein  .  .  a  ostwng  breint  barwneit  traha  Taliesin 

b.  Rhyvcl  y  gwarthec  :  Bydhawt  bryt  wrtli  arvau     ....      6 
y  wneuthur  iawn  y  gywir  am  ei  golledeu     Bierdin  Wyllt 

172  Breudlnoyd  Groiio  dhu  o  Von  :  Gwr  earig  o(!dd  ef  &c.  c 

See  p.  129  above  for  another  version  worded  slightly  different. 

174  When  Rome  is  removede  into  England     ....  d 
stryk  downe  the  host  &  stayd  theym  downe  for  euere. 

Tho:  of  Arseldon 

175  Madws  yra  gael  amodav     ....  e 
copha  wyr  Germania  mwy                    Syr  Thomas  Chwith 

b.  Uyma  vyd  i-hyvedh  Euvein  ar  ben  bys  &c.       y  Bardh  B.  f 

c.  ych  :  Ef  a  dhaw  amser  y  paran  hogi     ....  f/ 

ac  oweti  val  blaidh  ymlaen  marchocion  ....  y  Z?.  Bach 

brwydr  a  roes  glas  cas  gan  y  Saeson.     o  ystvm  llwynarth 

177  Beda  de  dictis  Merlini :  Cum  Anni  Christi  &c.  h 

h.       Geus  erit  australis  rectoi'  regui  gonerab's     ....  i 

Anno  testaute  cadet  vsurpans  iubilantc       J.  Brydlynglort 

170       Avon  demes  temestlir  k 

yn  waet  draw  yno  i  troir     .... 
Coron  ynys  y  Ceuri  Syr  DJ:  ofeiriat 

180  3Iar:  Ywein  Tttdyr  :  Cywiw  ardal  cywirdab  /  / 

Cof  ehelacth  ny  wnaeth  neb     .... 
eraill  .  .  .  yssydh  gelvvydhog  ei  swydh 
M.  Wyllt  .  .  Am  horvryn  .  .  cerdli  wamal  am  avalaii   ,  . 
Merdhin  Emreis  .  .  .  nyd  pwyll  hawdh     .... 
Trydydh  ormes  Tal.  traethodh  oi  vodh  truth  oi  vin  .    .  . 
awen  Iwgr  ywein  Lawgoch     .... 
Adba  Vrns  gyweithas  gam 
a  byr  gvvd  fals  y  Bergam     .... 
ysgolan  /  twyllodrus  govalus  gan     .... 
O  lladh  Owein  .   .  .  mae  gan  Christ  .   .  .  ywein  arall  .   .   . 
O  lynn  Cain  y  lann  Conwy       IL'n  ap  Ccnivric  dhu  o  voii. 

183       Y  Brut  hen  wyt  yn  brat  tau  in 

Y  byd  ny  thai  dwybodau     .... 
Trioedh  ny  ad  nyd  coeladwy 
Taliesin  na  merdhin  mwy     .... 
gwennol  a  orffor  gynnen  dd:  Gorkch 

185  Gwyddyl  Caer  lleon  :  Goehwiban  gwynt  yn  yr  avon   ...      n 

ymwedh  salweS  Saeson. 

b.  Conioy :  DJynges  vn  dirion  yn  llesteir  creu  trwst  rwyvau  &c.  o 

c,  pan  del.gwyniou  gynafon  y  greigieu  Brytaen     .     .     .     .    ^j 
ar  tir  ai  gwnel  ai  tervj'scant  Adlia  Vras 

186  Man  yr  weilgi,  a  henri  y  tri  tramwr  &c.  q 

h.  Ef    a    daw    yr    Bryn    gwyu    brenhined    a   diwreidh   coct    a    r 
cheurydh  &c. 

c.  Brenhin  y  bwch  gwalch  gwineu  &c.  s 

d.  Gwylwyr  parth  pyrth  rhatlon,  ai  gwyl  pan  hwylion  yar  las  hcli  &c.  t 

187  dyvydh  dygymv,  ac  ymlaen  cat  cafot  oerdii     ....       u 
rac  ywein  ....  pryt  nawn  pa  iawn  a  gaphant 

b.  Harri  17/;  Mi  ath  ogyfarchaf  gulvard  bwyt  .alaf  &c.  v 

y  98430.  T 


586  peniarth:  manuscript  94. 

188  Cyngor  M.  Wyllt :  Mi  ath  ofynaf  verdin  pa  vyd  a  vyft  .    .  a 

Ac  y  mae  yn  y  Uyvreu  cyfryw  cyfrin 
onyth  ladli  di  dhuw  nyth  ladh  di  dyu. 

b.       MerSin  mov  druan  genyf     ,     ■     .     .  h 

bydawt  cyfrediD  vy  narogan.       See  Pen:  MS.  I,  p.  I. 

189  Gioascargerdh  Verdin:   Q-wr  a  lefeir  yn  y  Ibedh  ....  c 

yni  del  gwynt  a  thes 

191  Leopard  a   gyfyd   yr    hwn    a  vyS  cryf  anveitrol,  a  chydac  d 
ef    y    maichoccaa     lliosawc    dorvoedh,    Ac     cf    adhaw    yn    rhith 

gwr ends:  Ac  ar  y  fovdh  ef  a  archollir  mewn  brwydr  yn 

dolui'us  ac  yn  dhiogel  ynghwlen  y  cymer   ef    ei   dhiwedh   .    Ac   y 
cledir  ymhlith  y  tri  brenhin  a  ofrymodli  y  Vair  Taliesin 

192  Y  marchoc  yn  arvoc  yn  erbyn  cateu  e 
Aelaw  hil  manaw  mynawc  arveu     .... 

a  dywys  ar  vrys  dros  vor  heli  y  Bergam 

b.       Cystlynedh  penaeth  weision,  Rhydyvydh  llymvuawc  ....      / 
Ac  arall  a  dyvydh  pellenic  ei  liiydh  llawenydh  y  vrython 

193  Rhyvel  dervyn  gan  lywelyn  Hew  pan  dhiwedh  ....         g 
yr  hael  drindawt  raii  drugaredh./  „ 

b,       Rhiedawc  bwyllawc  bellenic  y  Iwydh     ....  h 

onyt  prif  gytymaith  ym  nys  gwybydh  Taliesin 

194  Arvam  wyndyt  cymerwch  rybydh  i 
gan  Daliesin  eurin  orwydh     .... 

gwydh  bievydh  y  dydh  goreu  Merdin 

b.       Cywetheu  y  drindot  cyvoetheu     ....  h 

hyt  vrawt  traethaf  volawt  vel  diameu  „ 

195  Bydawt  clav  clywyd  chwetleu  gan  chwelleuyd     .     .    .    .    / 
Ac  a  yrh  or  plas  eu  rhygas  rhygulion  y  Bergam 

196  Corn  ymhedryflav  corn  ymhedair  bann     ....  m 
diiiw  y  aial  etwa'u  traha  trais  cadarn                          „ 

b,  pan  ganer  corn  ganwr  ymhriffordh  Cynghwr     .     ,     .    .     n 
pob  traha  treithyt  duw  chvnan  „ 

c,  diargel  rhyvel  rhwy  am  d'wylan  Couwy     ....  o 
ym  wir  gwr  bievydh  tir  tyroedh  Cyuan.                     „ 

197  daroganafi  brigat  gan  geitwat  prydain     ....  p 
ecclwys  yn  gaeth  gwae  ef  ai  gwn.ieth  prydain     Ad'a  Vras 

b.       Arvaeth  morwyr  orvot  ongyr  cngyr  wydant     ....      (7 
or  diwedvyd  lluoed  gwyndyt  Uawen  vydant        y  Bergam 

198  Daroganaf  aweu  ywein  varchawc     ....  »' 
galleb  bob  cyruwedy  brwydr  drin                              MerCtin 

b.       Y  meibion  moelion  a  vydh  yn  alltudion     ....  s 

ar  bawl  y  goret,  y  bu  ei  dynget,  mal  rot     Meritin  Wyllt 

199  Eryr  a  gyfyd  bryd  ymrythvn     ....  t 
meibion  amdivad,  a  gwraged  digarat  heb  hat  hilion    y  B. 

b.  Mi  ath  ofynaf  gulvard  eilvardh  goreu     ....  n 
pan  vo  aerfa,  pan  vo  tyrfa  twrf  anodheu             y  Bergam 

c.  Ywein  yngaith  ywein  yiighyfarth     ....  v 
ar  dir,  ag  arglwydiaeth  gwyr  gwaran                            „ 

d,  Clywitor  corn  mawr  llawr  llundain     ....  w 
yn  i  wiac  ny  wiscir  arnaw                                            „ 


Y   BERGAM,   A.   VRAS,   MEEDDIN,  TALIESIN,  587 

200  Amlivv  blaen  coet  hoet  hiiedron     ....  « 
nys  digred  dyn  byw  bot  a  welan                          y  Bergaiii 

b.  Pan  alwcr  gwyr  Gwynedh  nat  byw  eu  boncdh  ....  b 
val  y  cafad  Cui  trai  traeth  morien                                 „ 

c.  Davoganaf  y  rhywynt  a  hynt  y  Ogledli     ...  c 
ac  ar  vreint  taleith  gobeith  Gwynedh                   Aiu  Vras 

201  Corn  a  vySawr  com  a  lefawr     ....  d 
no3  waret  o  get  yflaw                                              y  Bergam 

b.  Gorovyn  gwawr  blygein  gan  deulu  ywein     ...  e 
gwyn  y  vyt  pan  annodein                                              „ 

c.  Byd  a  vyfi  bryt  wrth  lyw     ....  / 
gwan  fyfl  bob  ail  dy^  dadlau                                      Merdin 

202  Gwynt  rhywynt  a  rhy  law,  a  briwaw  broydh  ....  g 
y  byd  gan  gywarae  ar  Sais  saith  cant  cyni  Mcntin  Emrys 

203  Tri  Sainct  a  gyvyd  or  bed:  yr  byd     ....  h 
y  deil  ei  Avaew  oet  mygein  mygaf                                   „ 

204  Dysgogau  Awen  pbion  fawydb     ....  i 
dir  yn  oes  Cadarn  enwir  gat  haiarnion               „           ,, 

205  BySawt  gwyr  gwylain  ar  weilgi     ....  k 
yna  bydh  dygyvor  amgor  amgen                                 Tdliesin 

b.       Ordot  vron  gorvot  galet  aniilawr     ....  / 

ar  vaes  Ergin  lliaws  eu  brenhin,  oe  bwhwman  „ 

208  U,50.  pan  vo  blwyddyn  o  ras  yng  wlat  Ruvaiu  ....         in 
Ac  y  dychwel  Ywein  .  .  .  y  waret  ei  werin  or 

gaethiwed  gaetliaf  &c.  „ 

209  Nater  heibio'r  diarhebion  gwir  yw  diareb  y  n 

gwyr  doethion,  &c.  „ 

210  llawer  uewyn  a  vyd  .  llawer  dydh  dybir,  &c.  o 

b.  dyvyd  chwetleu  newyS  yn  amser  coc  a  mai  hyvryt,  &c.     p 

c.  pan  vo'r  gwyr  gwalcioc,  ar  gwraged!  criboc  &c.  ,,         (j 

d.  pan  3igwy3  yr  Alarch  y  byd  diarborth  dcifr  &c.        „         r 

211  Y  loeger  y  deuan  traian  tri  pbenaeth     ....  s 
a  difeith  Vrycheinioc  dienwoc  drcfi                                „ 

b.       Eryr  a  gyfyd  bryt  ymrytlion     ....  t 

a  dreis  angev,  yn  amgen  dudet  „ 

212  Marcboc  ymaruc  yn  erbyn  cateu  ...  n 
nodet  an  rhoflo  heb  dwyll  het  dio  drwy  wladycLii     „ 

b.       Nowcwys  anwabard  a  erdir  y  leni  &c.  „         v 

213  Gweaiaf  Christ  ar  y  Groes  letaf    ....  w 
bit  pobl  ynghryt  rac  ofn  y  Ci                                    Merlin 

b.       daroganaf  gerd  Daliesin  x 

darogenir  cenir  gerdli  Aneirin  gyn  y  rbyvel, 
a  cherd  a  draetbaf  a  draethodb  Merdin  &c.  Talicsin 

214  Gwyr  Gwyned  och  dyhed  ywch  y  daw  &c.  lUerftin  y 

216   Y pedwur  anivail :  Aniveilieid  a  volaf    .... 

a  dyrh  yn  y  bedwaredh  JUn  ap  Ywein  s 

216       Coronoc  vaban  a  dhaw,  o  Lin  Talaith  Aberfraw&c.  Talicsin  a 
Pagefi  217-24  are  wanting. 

T  2 


588  PENIARTEt  MANUSCRIPT  94. 

225  Jr  wdcneif  neu  gylhel  hely 

lie  cyfliig  dirving  dervysc     ....  a 

ysgw^r  hi  ysgwario  hydh  Rhes  Goch  or  yri 

228  Mol:  Dd:  llwyt  ap  dd:  ap  Rydherch 

Hawdhamor  blaenor  y  blaid     ....  h 

a  Haw  dhuw  rhag  Uadh  ei  wyr  Dd:  Namnor 

230  Mol:  Wiliam  Sion  "  biau  .  .  goed  ag  yd  Gwedy  gada  " 

Y  Gwr  sy  hwy  nag  yw'r  Sir     ....  c 

ond  olew  ne  dai  Wilim  Jeuan  dtulwyn 

231  Mol:  Or:  ap  Nicolas 

Wrth  dhecbrau  am  Swydhau  son     ....  d 

huawdl  y  vro  a  lioedl'yw  vrig        Ho:  ap  D.  ap  f.  ap  Rhes 

234  Mihancael  yr  Arcliangel :  da  air  o  vewn  daear  vu  .  .  .  .       e 
dan  ei  dhwy  adain  a  dhel  L.  Glyn  Cothi 

236  f  Hwlcyn  ap  Ho:  ap  Jer:  dhu  o  Brysadhved 

Cad  dhirwy  Ceidio  dhwyrodh     ....  f 

naf  dirion  nef  ai  dyry  Rhisierdyn 

238  ]f  ofyn  telyn  :  Prelad  cyfar  llavar  laes  g 

tew  byrh  llwyd  mewn  tabar  llaes     .... 
Rhisierdyn  vy  nyn  ba  wna     .... 
dewis  gwraio  duwies  gwragedh     Gr:  V'n  apGr:  ap  Eden, 

240  "  Yn  erbyn  John  dnvi  am  ei  oganv   ai  dhrwc  absen 

am  y  brenin  "  :  Syrthiodh  a  gwyrodh  y  gyrn    ....  A 
ar  Haw  voel  cais  velly  vyw  dd:  lloyd  ap  ll'n  ap  Gr: 

24l2i  Mar:  Jthel  dhu  o  Letjn 

Dir  yw  o  vro  Veilir  Vrych     ....  i 

y  gret'ydh  wr  dhigrifach  jfolo  Goch 

245       Dyw  Sul  dygym  gul  i  ganed     ....  k 

y  Sant  a  aned  dh)W  Sdl  Gr:  ap  yr  Ynad  Cocli 

248  dafi  [=da]  i  mi  henwi  wr  hunoc  (trwm)  / 
tri  maib  hedh  Molwynoc  &c. 

249  Mar:  Syr  Roland  Velivel  \y  Melville']  o  duwmares .  1535, 

Pa  dwrw  sy'n  cwympio  dewrion     ....  m 

nos  yr  wVl  nei  Syr  rolaot  Dd:  Alaio 

252  Y  notae  :  Mastr  llwyd  mab  wyd  am  wybodacth  (praph)  .  .    n 

o  gwuawn  pho  rhag  gweuwyn  phaeth 

a  dygia  phoedigaeth     .... 

oes  am  einioes  ysmonaeth  Gr:  Jeuan  II,  vychan 

253  Attep :  Coelia  di  vardh  mai  da  cilio  (rhag  nod)  o 

val  rhag  iieidr  ath  vratho     .... 

rhng  y  phrwyth  y  danllwyth  dan  Mr:  llwyt 

b.  Dowch  Wynedh  yr  wledh  ar  lam  (Conwy)  &c.    D.  ap  Ed:  p 

c.  y  D.  ap  Ed:  Gwr  grym  grair  groewgrym  groer  greurgryw  &c.  q 

264  /  Owein  Glyndwr — "  na  weinia  gledh  ywein  glyn  " 

Ceneis  er  na  vedreis  vydr     ....  r 

Arwydh  yw'r  Seren  wenn  wiw     .... 

Tri  0  heuwefi.  gleinieu  glan 

drig  ar  y  mab  drogan 

Cadwaladr  .  .  .  ywein  Cynan     .... 

ti  yw'r  Arlh  .  .  blaidh  .  .  hydh  .  .  ych  .  .  dreic  .  .  . 

pan  dhel  gwyl  vair  .  .  .  ar  Groclith  yn  vii     .     .     .     . 

A  haf  hir  velyn  .  .  .  .  yn  daw  gwared     ,     .     ,     . 


POETRY    BY  HUW  ARWYSTLI  ETC.  689 

Gwedy  bod  yn  hir  odech 

yn  alban  dan  lydan  lech 

gwisc  dy  siapled  .  .  Ywein  drwy  gau  ^euan*  wyd 

a  chonquest  hors  hensiest  hen        *Mered:  ap  dd:  vijchan 

25G       The  beame  shall  bend  that  beares  the  Assyso  ....  a 

shall  lannce  er  all  be  lost  Tito:  of  Arseldone 

257,  147,  &  262  When  Eome  is  removed  to  England  &c.  b 

258       S.  mused  in  mydes  \_dc\  raykyl  toward     ....  c 

And  mangell  w"'  nietall  mercye 

b.       The  falsed  the  forcast  foule  shall  be  found     .     ,     ,     .        d 

And  then  this  land  Brytaen  shalbe    ex  manuscripto  antiquissimo 

264  [Dicla  Caionis']  pan  elych  yr  bwrdh  bit  *  *  *  «  Iieb  dom   tlan 

dy  ewinedh  .  .  na   vwyta  .  .  ar   vrys   ....  Cymer   dy   halen  ar  dy 

draensiwr   .  .  .  na  yf  tra    vo   dy  ywyd   yn   dy   benu  .  .  ,  ends ;  na 

thorh  dy  vwyd  ath  dhannedh. 


MS.  95  =  Hen.  410.  Poetry  by  Huw  Arwystli,  Owen 
GwYNEDD,  &c.  Paper ;  8  x  5a  inches  ;  182  pages,  some  being  mere 
fragments,  which  are  interleaved,  at  the  beginning  and  all  more  or  loss 
injured  at  the  top  corner  up  to  page  95  ;  first  half  of  the  xviith  century  ; 
bound  in  white  vellum. 

The  following  names  occur  on  the  margin  :  "  William  Wynne  .  .  i-ector  of 
ILanaber  and  Llanvair  1757  ;  1760  "  (p.  153)  j  "  Gulielmus  Anwyl  e  Coll:  Diviui 
Johannis  Baptistae  1692  "  (p.  155). 

Pages  1-32  are  mere  fragments. 
33  jf  Dd:  "  amrhedydd  lleuo  Dd:  llwyd  " 

Klod  awneth  dyfod  **#**....  e 

hvawdl  barch  hael  yw  *  *  *  ifan 

36         #**4i;*##*r  byd     ....  f 

Howel  yn  fal  hevlwen  fydd     .... 
da  oil  aro  duw  llei  rwyd  IJt'no  arici/sdl 

39  Jlfar:  gr:  ap  gwiliin  or  kernes 

torest  vn  om  trvst  anwyl     ....  g 

ai  pen  oi  fab  hynaf  el  Huw  artoysdl 

41   3Iar:  rhisiart  ap  sion  ap  huw 

am  sion  ab  hiiw  diiw  or  dydd     ....  k 

a  brynodd  bier  eneid  if  an  tew 

44  y  hiiw  ab  tomas :  yr  hen  wyr  oi  ihan  wrol     ....  i 

hir  einioes  hiiw  ar  wyneb  gr:  hafren 

49  J  antyni  \sdanle'\:  bonedd  dwy  wynedd  *  *  *  *[cd]     .     .    k 
*  *  *  sy  waeth  o  seis  as*#  ***** 

53  f  Edw:  jarll  pcnfro :  Pwy  n  gall  ****....  I 

obaith  vwch  ben  byth  ych  bod  huv}  arwysdl 

56  f  Gr:  ab  dd:  ab  Lewis  :  Y  gwr  siar  dop  grisier  d[a]wn  .  .      m 
Hew  a  Haw  fawr  well  well  fych  Jiuw  arivysdl 

59  f  lewys  ab  ifan  ab  dd:  ab  Owen 

Af  yn  hen  ag  i  fyw  n  hir     ....  n 

a  ddwg  yn  i  ddigoniant  ifan  tew 

*  In  the  margin  it  is  stated  that  'jeuan  ap  Bydherch  ap  Jeuan  llwyd  is  the  author. 


590  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT  95. 

63       Y  maer  [o  flinas  mowddwy]  a  ddwg  mowrcdd  iawn  .  .     a 
difalch  oed  y  fwyalch  fydd  edwarf  vrien 

66       llawen  ynof  llei  nynodd     ....  6 

Lewys  .  .  .  o  waed  ifau  a  dd:     .     .     .     . 
pvm  synwyr  pvm  oes  ynod  Ow:  gieynedd 

69  J  dduw :  dyegais  yn  y  modd  i  disgyn     ....  c 

yn  vn  duw  ag  jn  win  da  Dd:  namor 

71       trindawd  syn  troi  o  vndyn     ....  d 

y w  wyr  hen  a  wna  rheini  ifan  tvdvr  penllyn. 

73  f  Syr  Sion  ah  ifan  goch 

Syr  Sion  ail  Siaron  laswyray  /  da  iaith     ....  c 

nid  tiwid  siars  had  onidwyd  syr  sion  Anon 

77  Mar:  Howel  ab  sianghyn 

Howel  enaid  hil  einion     ....  / 

petter  byd  poed  hir  i  bo  ifan  tvdvr  penllyn 

Id  f  risiart  ab  huw  :  y  blaenor  heb  neb  lanach     ....         g 
duw  dair  oes  da  do  risiart  Rys  Kain 

82  f  yryr  gwynt  i  geisio  rhisiart  ah  rolant  adre  o  fiandras 

Y  gwynt  trwm  egni  tramawr     ....  li 

a  chadw  Iv  dwg  chwedel  da  Sion  mowddwy 

86       Dart  arglwydd  harbart  baham  na  thores     ....  i 

vn  klo  yw  edwar  yw  harbart  hen  Dd:  ab  edmwnt 

02  f  gruffydd  fychan  a  gars  y  gedol 

liawn  ach  einion  a  chynan  klod  graff    ....  k 

iechyd  a  golyd  ich  dwy  galon  Sion  ffy lib 

07  7  Otv:  ab  dd:  ab  Rys :  owen  ir  hael  on  waew  rhvdd  ...       / 
doed  yn  o  hap  da  dy  n  hen  hvw  arwysdl 

99  J  owen  ab  howel  ab  ifan  amhadog 

oweu  braS  ai  wayw  n  y  brig     ....  »' 

er  y  bynt  avr  ar  bentwyn  ||  1.  S8  P  S.  Keri'\ 

101  II  brafF  laweu  Hew  korfEol  wnllwyd     ....  n 
aros  i  saig  rys  a  siau                                          huw  arwysdl 

102  J  Ho:  ab  rhys :  y  gwr  hoew  ddoeth  gwir  heddyw     .     .    .     o 

Icawn  ddyn  da  n  kynnyddy  n  dol  Ow:  gwynedd 

105   7  loathyn  tomas  o  livyn  ierwerlh 

ch[w]ant  sy  arnaf  gwelaf  goeliad     ....  p 

a  dvw  tyfed  dy  tifedd  hvio  arwysdl 

107  Jmorys  fychan:  y  dyn  a  ddwg  diweniaith  ....  q 

dendio  yw  dwyn  yd  wyn  dy  dad       imperfect       „  „ 

110  j'  S.  ah  hari  ab  rys  dv :  dyn  ir  glan  i  dynnyr  glod  ....       r 

fanwyl  gofvn  a  fynnych  owen  gwynedd 

1 14  7  Wm:  ab  sianghyn :  Y  Hew  vn  dduU  a  howel  ....  s 

ath  ad  wiliam  ith  dylwyth  ifan  tvdvr  penllyn 

116  jf  tomas  grvffydd  arglwydd  llanbedr 

yr  arglwydd  raawr  evrgledd  mwyn     ....  * 

galawnt  ifor  glan  teifi  Sion  mowddwy 

118  J  ddvw  :  pwy  sy  ben  yn  pasio  byd 

pwy  orvwchaf  pvr  iechyd  ....    (not  Tudur  Alcd's)  « 

yn  fab  dvw  yn  ddvw  yn  ddyn*  hvw  lewys 

*  Only  a  fragment  of  pp.  119-20  is  left,  and  the  last  line  may  belong  to  some 
other  Cywydd, 


POETRY  BY  HUW  AEWYSTLI,  ETC.  591 

\2\  f  Hvw  gwyn  or  morfa  maior 

Y  perl  ifaingk  pvr  loywfaeth     ....  « 
drwy  iach  wledd  draw  ywch  Iwyddiant       Sion  mowddimj 

125  J  rys  ah  if  an  ah  lewys 

y  dyii   ir  a   dvw  n  arwydd     ....  h 

f'y  wUys  vwcli  felly  sydd  Ownin  r/wynedd 

128  J  mastr  oljir  harhart 

y  dyn  ai  ryw  da  n  i  wraidd     ....  c 

a  chida  dvw  iechyd  yw  dwyn  „  „ 

132  /  Sion  ah  dafydd  llwyd  ah  oiveti 

Y  barr  awch  heb  air  vcliel     ....  d 
bod  wyth  oes  bowyd  ith  wen 

134  y  harijychan :  arwydd  gwr  iraidd  geirwir     .     ,     .     .  e 

hir  gynnydd  harri  gennyd  if  an  lew 

137  jf  H'n  goch  [«6]  dd:  ah  rrys  amrhedydd 

\  mao  r  gair  ag  cid  mawr  gel     ....  / 

i  war  i  ddwyn  avr  i  ddel  „       „ 

140  J  rhisiart  ah  S.  ah  hvw  :  Myvyrio  yw  r  mav  fwriad  ....        </ 
vn  dyn  a  bair  vn  dvw  n  ben  owcn  yivynedd 

143  /  Syr  hvw  person  mallwyd :  wrth  ddeall  weddeiddgall  dyn  .  .    h 
e  gair  fyth  y  gwr  ai  farcli  hvw  arivysdl 

146  J  rydderch  ap  gr.  amhorys 

i  mae  dyn  am  y  dynnion     ....  i 

heb  oi  rryw  n  ben  ar  hwn  Owen  gwynedd 

149  _7  '"y*  amhorys  ah  otuen 

dvw  a  wnai  gynt  donniog  ion     ....  k 

na  chysgwcb  dan  ebwch  neb    (!•  90) ||  \_Hmij  aricystl] 

153  A  fragment,  10  lines,  ending: 

byw  drwy  serch  bedeir  oes  hydd  lexmjs  dwti   I 

154  _7  mastr  tomas  ab  rhys  or  drenewydd 

Yr  oen  gwar  arian  i  gyd     ....  in 

bo  yt  rrwydd  gael  byd  trwy  lieddwch  Lewys  mon 

156       Powys  flin  pwy  sy  flaenawr  .  .   IVmjfre  Ihoyd  ....  n 

bo  esdynol  bowys  danocb  Dd:  ah  ifan  llwyd 

159  Mol:  masdr  ifan  rys  loyn  o  Ian  gadfan 

J  karw  ifangk  arafwycli     ....  o 

yn  ol  im  oes  vu  wyl  mwy  hvw  arwysdl 

162  ^  tomas  ah  dafydd  deg 

Y  karw  yu  magv  kariad     ....  p 
draig  wnias  o  dir  gwynedd  (1.  20) || 

163  II  darn  koed  a  dwrn  i  kodir     ....  q 
pvm  pvnt  fydd  pwyth  deylv/yth  dvr                 Hvw  arwystl 

164  J  fred:  ap  ll'n :  Myredydd  ddevrydd  aron  ab  kynfarcu  ...     r 

af  ar  awdwl  i  fredydd  deio  ah  ian  dv 

166  Mar:  Use  ah  wiliam  Ihoyd  o  riwedog 

braych  a  Haw  bylaw  haeledd  a  dorwyd     ....  * 

0  tliored  oil  oil  i  throed  ai  Haw  wijiam  llyn 

1G9       gan  rijfEvdd  ddevrvdd  wrol  em  evr  gorfF  t 

a  marged  natvriol  /  kes  greso     .... 
rhif  y  gwlitb  o  feudithion 
i  chwi  sydd  am  ycb  Hew  i  sion  "ision 


592  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPTS  95-6. 

170       y  wlad  onest  lojw  dyner     ....  a 

tyfy  wna  gwlan  yn  ganmwy 

difi  taith  i  defaid  hwy  Anon 

172  jf  Mastr  rolant  pvw  o  fathafarn 

Pwy  am  sion  a  pvw  ym  sydd     ....  i 

dvw  ar  ail  ydiw  lolant  Owen  gwynedd 

175  J  Edio:  amhorys :  y  ihy  gaiw  glan  rragor  glod  .  .  . 

natto  duw  newid  dy  dal  Owen  gwynedd 

178  J  Syr  Gr:  mikar  llan  bryn  mair 

hwde  wayr  glod  hyder  glan 

hwie  i  brelad  hir  brevlan     .... 

deynaw  rrent  ir  dyn  ai  rrydd  „  ^, 

181  Mol:  Siamas  ah  dafydd  llwyd 

kalon  kaer  einion  kyrenydd  powys     .... 

ty  kvr  kann  hynnys  tokiar  kenhenion      (I.  47)|| 


c 


MS.  96  =  Hen.  176.  The  Poetical  Works  op  Lewis  Dwnn 
and  others.  Paper ;  8  X  G  inches ;  690  pages ;  bound  in  white 
vellum. 

The  ■bulk  of  this  MS.  is  in  the  autograph  of  Lewis  Dwnn  the  well-kuown  herald  at 
arms.  It  is  difficult  to  decide  with  exactness  how  much  of  it  he  wrote.  The  dates 
affixed  to  the  composition  range  from  1565  to  1616,  and  a  man's  writing  would  cer- 
tainly vary  to  some  extent  in  the  course  of  half  a  century.  The  writing  on  pages 
433-45  is  so  shaky  as  to  be  clearly  that  of  one  who  is  infirm  and  old.  Some  of  the 
Cywyddeu  which  want  the  second  half  of  the  lines  are  in  the  supposed  hand  of 
Lewis  Dwnn.  An  author  might  he  expected  to  give  a  complete  text  of  his  own 
compositions.  Still,  he  might,  after  many  years,  forget  what  he  had  written  and  in 
case  the  original  MS.  became  torn,  or  worn  at  the  edges,  the  restoration  of  the  text 
would  be  difficult  if  not  impossible. 

The  name  of  "John  Dauies  "  occurs  on  pages  76  and  446;  and  of  "Lewis 
Gwynne  Gent"  on  page  446. 

1  /  Wm:  ffelpott :  y  dewr  or  gwaed  eryr  gwych     .     .     .     .      / 
bavn  doeth  del  bendith  duw  r[ad]*  Leicis  Dion 

G  /  Syr  Rys  ap  tomas :  Nos  da  ir  fran 1     ....</ 

Wat  i  ddoi  byth  hyd  dydd  barn  Lewis  mon 

7  A',  march :  meredydd  ai  yma  ir  ydwyd     ....  /( 

moes  farch  ag  arch  a  fo  gwoll  gvtor  glynn 

9  Mar:    Tomas  ap  Risiart  o  fwlch  y   hevdy,  kerrig  y 

drvdion  :  mor  aeth  aruom  wrth  oerni     ....  i 

golvd  yr  wyl  gwlad  i  ras     ,  •/607  .  L.  Dwnn 

12       Y  grog  waredog  o  riw  din  meirchion     ...  ft 

bid  gwaglvd  bawb  ar  y  grog    gr:  ap  Jfan  ap  U'n  vychan 

16  Continuation  of  a  modern  Table  of  Contents  of  this  MS.  begun  on  page 

17  Mil  chwechant  gwarant  gowrain/onid  dwy    ....  I 
klaps  jmaeliad  Mips  milain  .    25  .  Feb.  1597  .       L.  Dwnn 

h.      Allan  i  trig!  di  chwibl     ....  m 

gronn  gadwyn  drom  geden  drwsgl       bleddyn  was  y  kwd 
IS  Tsble  of  contents  in  continuation  of  p.  16  (?  in  the  hand  of  Lewis  Morris) 

*  The  bottom  margin  is  so  rubbed  and  torn  that  the  words  doeth  del  bendith  duw 
rad  are  more  or  less  of  a  guess. 

t  Transcribed  evidently  from  an  imperfect  copy  as  only  the  first  half  of  the  lines 
are  given. 


POETRY  BV  LEWIS  DWNN.  593 

19  Siors  owain  avr  lain  ar  les  o  dirglav  a 
wvd  argl:  3'  kemes  .  .  .  athro  lloegr  a  chynirv  .  . 

drwy  foliant  adref  elwaith         .isg'l.  L.  Dwnn 

20  dwys  dal  yw  gynal  gennyd  yn  gynwys    ....  1/ 
genyd  yw  gynal  dal  dwys  .         -/  SQO  . 

21  Mar:  Rissiart  prys,  "  aer  sion,"  0  Benarth.  l60/f  . 

trais  ai  issod  troes  fessv     ....  g 

J  gadw  oes  gida  ]fessv 

25  Mol:  Syr  Richard  Prys  0  gerddan  marchog.  I603  . 

Parchiad  dehevwlad  wyd  o  haelion  twf    .    ,    .    ,  d 

Pwyr  percheu  piav  r  parchiad 

81  Mol:  Hvw,  "aer  sion  wyr  .  .  mevrig,"  barien  haer  wigedd 

*y  barwn  gwych  bvrion  gwaed     .     ,     ,     ,  e 

bw  ich  iaith  i  boch  ithav         •  -1604  . 

36  Mol:  y  ddau  f organ  syr  wiliam  0  VacJien  a  Mastr  Edio;  0 

Lann  ternam :  Y  gwyr  enwog  or  ynys     .     ,     .     .  / 

a  duw  Kodded  yr  heddwch         .  160X  . 

40  Mar:  Mathav  harhart  0  Golbrook  sir  Fynwy.  16O/,  . 

Diiw  ssul  gwynn  dv  salw  y  gwaith     ....  q 

a  nef  weithian  i  fathav 

46  Mol:  Sion  dd:  Trostre :  Dyfalwn  wr  diflin  wodd   .     .     .     .    h 
tro  dewissoed  troed  'Jessv         .  1605  , 

51  J  Syr  Morgan  o  dredeig[r^  : 

Y  marchog  nerthog  onn  jaith    ....  { 
a  bo  denw  drwy  r  byd  vnwaith                       Rys  bryclian 

54  Mol:  rolant  ap  rissiart  o  Ddol  y  korslwyn  .  l60/f  . 

Bardd  ydwyf  abraw  ddwedvd     ....  k 

Doed  yn  blygda  duw  n  i  bias  L.  Dwnn 

59  Mol:  Mastr  rolant  wiliams  o  JMnn  Gybi  yngwent,  l605  , 

Y  Siryf  kynlwys  irwych     ....  i 
diiw  ith  adael  doeth  ydwyd 

64  Mar:  Wiliam  ap  tomas  0  Ryd  y  maen.  1605  , 

Gwae  viliwn  yn  gofalv     ....  m, 

kidai  geraint  kyd  garwn 

68  Mol:  Rys  0  bark  letys  yn  sir  fynwy.  1605  . 

OS  gwr  dewr  (ysgwier  a  dawn)     ....  « 

a  fyno  duw  a  fo * 

73  /  Edw:  Kemes:  Y  barwu  a  by w  eryr     ....  o 

bor  kymen  i  bo  /r/  kemes     .  1601  . 

77  Mol:  Wiliam  lewys  o  dreflai.  16OI  . 

Y  Gwr  brevdeg  or  brodir     ....  p 
rhoed  gariad  'Jarll  rhyd  gwr . 

80  kresso  ir  fro  araf  rydd  /  Sion  siankin  &e.       .  1601  .  q 

81  Mol:  Hiiw  Jfans  M.A.,  mikar  llan  edyrn,  1601 . 

fr  Gwr  glan  ar  gair  ar  glod     ....  r 

bath  ryngiad  bytho  ir  angel 

86       Pwy  pwy  aill  tiamwy  y  trimor  heilldion  &c.  R.ffylip  s 

b.       7  chlod  sydd  barod  y  borav  drych  gwlad  &c.  Ed:  Dwnn   t 

u.      avr  veirdd  ir  vawl  helrdd  hoiw  Trddawl  &c.  h  j  R  j  u 

*  The  ends  of  many  of  the  lines  are  -wanting. 


594  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  96. 

«■  _ 
87  Mar:  doctor  powel  o  ryw  abort.  i6Q0  , 

Mawr  0  alav  maer  wylo     ...  « 

y  nef  yn  dokdor  ni  aeth  Z,  Dwnn 

91  f  John  ap  harri  domas  or  eglwys  newydd.  1601  , 

Pregethwr  pvr  i  gwthiaf     ....  6 

dan  Rvddavr  dynar  weddi 

95  f  Rob:  Mathe:  Y  Gwr  enwog  ar  rannodd     ....  c 

a  byw  n  heiiwalch  bavn  hynod 

100  Mol:  Mastr  Rolant  morgan  maer  kaer  dyf.  1601 . 

Pwy  /  n  /  Hew  glan  pen  Uv  ai  gledd     ....  d 

bid  yn  iarll  eb  wad  ini 

102  Mol:  Edioard  lewys  or  fann.  1600  . 

or  Hew  gwynn  jarll  i  gynnydd     ....  e 

braens  anerch  i  bryns  hynod 

106  JLan  wddyn  :  Edward  Wynn  nodyn  ydwyd  /  aer  Rys  .      .         / 

trwy  f essv  fyth  tair  oes  fon         .  1603  . 

107  Sara  \7enn  seren  siriol  /  verch  Ed; ,  .  S.  ab  gr:    .    .    .        g 
a  fyno  hi  fo  n  i  hoes         .  i603 . 

108  trwssio  trawsiad  treissio  trassoedd  &c.                          Syr  feuan  lloyd  h 

b.  gwawdydd  gwiwdonn  gydwydd  godiad  &c.  jmj  J&&.J    i 

c.  gwenfvn  gwynfav  gainfvn  gynfvl  &c.  dd:  ap  Edmumt  h 

d.  eissoes  pwyr  aesawr  jlesv  &c.  Simmiit  fychan*  ai  kanodd  yn  vesur  newydd  I 
109  Mol:  gahrel  lewys  :  Y  pvr  wych  lew  parch  i  wlad    .    ,    ,    .     m 

tavrlliw  Rvddavr  Jarll  Roddwin 

1 15  Mol:  Wm:  Morgan  Esgob  llan  daf- — "  lamp  pob  dysg  "  .  l600  . 
Pwy  wr  o  ffawd  pvr  i  ffydd     ....  n 

bei  mwy  sswydd  bvm  oes  iddo 

119  Mar:  mastres  marged  Mathe  o  Lan  daf.  1600  . 

Troes  duw  alar  trist  wiliav     ....  o 

nef  i  hon  a  fv  hynod 

1 24  kaer  gronn  Rriw  r  Saesson  Rhoes  }essu  kaer  gref  ...      p 
nevadd  morys  owain     .... 

bav  kvn  kair  benn  kann  koron         .  ^5pp  . 

125  Mar:  Harri  Herbart  jarll  penfro  ,  1601, 

kymro  gyd  kymraeg  oil     ...     .  q 

y  twyssog  aeth  at  ^essv 

130  7  Wm:  Herbart:  Pwy  n  ail  Jarll  yw  penn  i  Iv     .     .     ,     ,    r 
bor  mawr  chwyrn  i  bor  marchog  .  l601  . 

136  jf  Dr.  Rissiart  Trevor:  Awn  at  trefor  nid  Ryfedd  ....        s  - 
bo  teiroes  eb  i  tori  .  l601 . 

141  Mar:  Siors  Wiliams :  klowch  y  byd  klych  eb  oedi   .     .     .     I 
krist  duw  hael  kroessa  di  hwnn  .   1600  . 

146  Mol:  tomas  Wiliam  howel  o  lyn  nedd  .  1600 . 

Dwyoes  vo  deinioes  daeniel  wyt  yraa    ....  u 

dewis  vn  wyd  dos  yn  -jach 

148  Duw  gwener  llawer  holl  Uv  a  brynodd     ....  v 
vo  rodd  vHwr  barch  vowredd  y  byd  .  l601  . 

149  Awl  michti  ladi  owr  leding/to  hnv     ....  ic 
ei  keno  moo  /  to  kwin  ameicht                    Howel  Swrdwal 


Simwnt  fychan  is  crossed  out,  and  kwys  dwn  Tvritten  over  it  by  a  later  hand. 


POETBY  BY  LEWIS  DWNN  AND   OTHERS.  696 

152      *Anna  a  wnaeth  in  nynni     ....  « 

ynn  eneidiav  vn  wedig  Uoivel  Swrdwal 

156  bytheid  Sirif  hain  : 

klowch  ibain  mastr  kain  mwstr  y  kwn  klych  digoll  .  .        h 
klowch    Pdoriad  klych  daiaredd  Anon 

b       (Clycli  clayar  Dayar  dvvyallfc  per  fasw  &e.)  „       c 

f  Syr   W.  ap  to:  morgan  hen  o   benn  y  Koed,  marcher/ 

157  Y  Hew  bronwyn  jarll  brenin     ....  d 
enaid  o  nef  vn  dyn  well                              lewys  morganwg 

161  Ymwlen  y  kanmolent  ....  varchog  o  went     .     .     .    .      e 
js  kaer  vwcb  i  wisgei  krain  „  „ 

162  gwawdydd  /  gwiw  don  /  gydwydd  godiad  &c,  MevrigDd:    f 

0  forganwg 

163  Mol;  Rolant  Morgan  o  vachen  a  thredeger 

Mae  ewin  Hew  am  wavn  Uwg     ....  g 

llwyddiant  yt  rolant  tair  oes  Lewys  morgamog 

165  ^  hari  far II  kyrangon  ;  ty   Rraglan  tyrav  eglvr     ....     A 
herbert  dwy  awr  wr  y  ty  „  „ 

168  et(o :  mae  vn  aerllew  mewn  jarllaeth     ....  i 

hir  y  bor  diig  herbert  wych  „  „ 

I7l  Mol:  syr  giorg  mathe  or  r.adur 

Y  Hew  pasant  llei  pwyswyd     ....  It 

at  oes  gwr  yti  was  gwych 

173  f  Syr  Siorg  H. — Yr  harbart  hir  ar  barr  tan     ....  / 

ar  oes  hir  bell  Siors  harbart  „  „ 

178       Dawns  o  bowls  ....  m 


iarll  oi  fab  arall *  gvtor  glyn 

183  Mol:  Sion  ap  Watkyn  vychan  o  dir  yr  jarll 

be  rodid  ynya  brydain     ....  n 

drwy  daf  a  dyngaf  ar  dol  Gwilym  tetv 

187  /  Wiliam  ap  niklas  harbart  o  gaer  dyf  .  l6oo, 

Damvno  rwyf  damwain  ras     ....  o 

kirist  eilwaitb  kroesed  wiliam  Lewys  Dvmn 

190  Mol:  Rissiarf  Basset  or  y  bewpur   .  l600  . 

Pwy  sy  wr  hapvs  jrwych     ....  j) 

hael  ni  bv  hael  neb  i  hwn  „  „ 

195       tri  oedran  hoiwlan  helynt     ....  q 

yn  y  wledd  a  diwedd  da  Dr.  Sion  y  hent 

197  Mol:  Tomas  Atvbrey  :  Y  Gwr  eawog  ]oy  vniawn  ....  r 

traw  .  n  .  farchog  banog  i  bydd  .  l600  .        Lewys  Dwnn 

201  Mol:  Rrys  knap  or  bontfaen  .  1600  . 

]fr  dref  fawr  ar  dyrfa  wych     ....  s 

Haw  dduw  r  hawg  ai  llwyddo  Rrys  „  „ 

206  Mar:  Sion  gamais  or  koety 

Pa  lefain  llyndain  yn  lladd  maer  blaened    ....  t 

kyd  lef  o  ]fesv  kyd  lefasan  Lewis  morgamvg 

212  Abad  ysdratfflvr :  kerais  y  mab  ar  korvn     ....  u 

a  Uyna  rys  yn  llawn  o  rad  gvtto  or  glynn 

*  The  endiogs  of  most  of  tbe  lines  arc  -wantiog. 


596  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   96. 

216   Vr  §  dial  kyn  dydd  varn :  ystvdioi  rwyf  was  didwyll  ....  a 
asswy  a  mi  f  essv  amen  Sion  y  kent 

221    Y I  10  I  gorchymyn  :  Y  mae  duw  yn  gorchymvn     ....  6 
ti  biav  r  nef  pan  ddelycli  Anon 

224  Yr  englynion  afv  Brwng  arthvr  a  liwlod  f  nai  gwedi  marw  o  liwlod  ag 
ymrithio  ar  Ivn  evyr  pan  oedd  arthvr  yni  fforest  yu  hela  gwedi  holli  helynt. 

ys  Eryfedd  kyd  i  bwyf  bardd     ....  c 

ai  or  enaid  hyd  y  nef 

231  Dyma  rymddiddan  fv  Erwng  syr  trystram  vab  tallwch  J  ag  esyllt  Gwraig 
march  vab  meirchion  vn  arall  or  marchogion  :*  yn  y  kyfamser  ir  aeth  trystram 
ag  esyllt  gwraig  march  ap  meirchion  ar  herw  ]  fforest  golyddon  a  meroh  i  gida 
hi  elwyd  gol-wg  haf  ddydd  ynllaw  forwyn  &c. 

esyllt  wenn  na  fydd  ofnawg     ....  d 

kelynn  ag  eiddiav  ag  y w  /  addeil  i  dail  tra  fon  byw 

240  J  Edmont  ap  0.  tudur  a  jfasshar  i  fraivd  jarll  penfro 

Y  ddev  wr  arglwyddiaidd     ....  e 
i  gadw  aelwyd  gydwaladr                             Dd:  nant  mawr 

242  Mol:  kaer  dyf:  Y  gaer  fawr  a  gara  vi     .     .     .     .  / 

Haw  dduw  hael  ai  Uwyddo  hi  .  l601 .  Lewys  dwnn 

245  Mol:  Rrys  ap  mevrig  or  hotrel 

O  brenn  hynnawd  brenhinawl     ....  g 

tri  thwyssog  tvwy  waith  ^essv        .  1601 .  „         „ 

251  K.  Rwng  syr  giorg  herbert  a  syr  edw:  manssel 

Y  wlad  aeth  heb  olav  dydd     ....  h 
dig  a  bar  yn  ymaros     .... 

vn  oed  dydd  onid  heddwch  Richiart  fericerth 

256  Mar:  Ow:  blaeniav  :  Aeth  anap  vyth  i  weinjon     ....      i 
duw  a  ro  nef  ir  dewr  nvdd  .  1599-  Lewys  dwnn 

260  Mol:  y  If  brodur  o  ynys  von 

Mynd  ir  wyf  i  dir  mon  draw     ....  k 

traw  af  i  von  tra  fwy  fyw  ^olo  goch 

263  ^  Ow:  glynn  dyfr  dwy :  Myfyrio  bvm 1  ....  I 

ag  vD  Haw  y  fach  gynllaith  „        „ 

267  Mol:  Jeuan  ap  einion  ap  ll'n  ap  kyvvrig 

Y  gwrda  o  gywirdeb     ....  m 
y  w  tvedd  bro  hyd  brawd                                 gvto  j  r  j  glynn 

271  Mol:  Wiliam  gr:  Siambrlain  gwynedd 

Mynydd  ynhavl  mynodd  yr  hawg     ....  n 

onid  vn  a  dav  wyneb  Lewys  mon 

274  Mol:  Mathe  Harbari:  Y  pur  eryr  per  irwych     ....       o 
doeth  grassol  duw  ith  groisi      .  1601 ,  Letmjs  dwnn 

279   Y  vaenor  y  beryw  :  Y  pvr  angel  per  vngod     ....  p 

J  edwart  prys  a  dart  prafE     .... 
awr  ag  enyd  ar  gynydd  .  1601.  „        „ 

283  Mol:  Wm:  bwyssier  •  Ar  dduw  gwynn  ai  Eadd  gynnwya  .  .  q 
teiroes  vddvnt  Rroes  weddi       .  1601.  „        „ 

287  /  Hiiw  ap  huto,  tal  y  llyn.  1601  . 

Gweddiwr  wy'n  gweiddi  /  r  /  joed     ....  r 

at  oes  deg  bo  yt  ystad  L.  Dwnn 

*  Besides  the  usual  "  Englynion  "  (see  Myvyrian,  vol.  i,  p.        =  1.32)  there  is  much 
additional  matter  here, 
•f  The  ending  of  lines  1,  2,  4—6  are  wanting. 


POETRY   BY   LEWIS   DWnN   AND   OTHERS.  607 

291  jf  Huw  Naiiav :  Pwyn  olin  jeirll  penn  i  wlad     ....        a 
pavn  dilesg  penn  yw  dalaith         .  1601  .  L.  Dwnn 

296  Mar:  Marged  gr:  0  garnarvon      .... 

tros  wynnedd  i  troes  ennyd     ....  b 

llwyddai  hoeS  Haw  ddiiw  i  lioim  „       „ 

302  J  saith  mab  Jer:  up  gruffydd  0  "fam  ynijs  von  " 

meibion  diwarth  i  mebyd     ....  c 

ddwylo  mwnwgl  i  ddelon  gr:  gryg 

305  Mol:  Wiliam  Grvffydd  0  Garnarfon.  I601  . 

aer  o  lin  I'eirll  ir  Ian  wyd     ....  d 

yn  evrlliw  ban  iarll  y  bych  Lewys  Dwnn 

310  Mol:  elsbeth  owaiii :  Ar  dduw  gwynn  ai  radd  gynwys  ....    e 
kroes  duvr  ar  hon  krist  yi'  hawg     .  l60i  ,  ,,  „ 

315  Mol:  Gtm  ap  ll'n :  gwaedoliaetb  a  gyd  wiliwn     .     .     .     .      / 
gwaed  wilim  hyd  gydweli  j^eii:  tew  hrydydd 

318  3£ol:  Syr  gr:  vychan :  Y  marchog  blodevog  bfaid     ...      17 
trossod  wr  trwssiad  evraid  Rhys  goch  or  yri 

^22i  Mol:  dd:  lloyd  vychan  or  hafodwen 

^r  gaer  braff  ar  gwrr  y  hxjn     ....  h 

einioes  vt  wenwys  ottwel  Ow:  ap  ll'n  mod  y  pantri 

325  Bachelldref :  Mab  kadr  kydwaladr  liil  elystan  glodrydd  .  .     i 
a  llywenydd  mawr  vwch  y  llawr  Ueithig  (I.  63)  || 

329  J  charlas  Harharl :  'Jr  llew  Gwycli  o  ieiiU  ai  gwaed    .    .    .  h 
tapr  y  gler  ti  piav  r  glod         .  1601  .  Lewys  Dwnn 

334  J  Sion  komvy :  Y  gwr  ir  kail  eirwir  ksr     .     .     .     .  / 

arglwydd  presstatvn  evrgledd     .... 

vrddassol  ar  y  ddwysir         .  1602  .  „  „ 

338  Mol:  Dd:  holant :  Gwr  sy  bengras  a  bonedd     ....        ni 

Jarll  eb  wad  arall  i  bo         .  l60ii  .  „  „ 

342  Mar:  John  tiidiXr  :'J  mae  oerfel  am  evrfardd     ....         ti 

diiw  ^essv  ai  dewisodd         .  1602  .  „  „ 

346  Mol :  tomas  banks  dean  llann  elwy.  I602  . 

pa  wr  o  ddysg  pvr  i  ddawn     ....  0 

biragl  ynys  bavn  glanwych  ,,  „ 

350  3iar:  pyrs  gr: — troes  diiw  wynn  tros  dwy  wyuedd  ...  j' 

pvr  uaf  hael'pair  nef  i  hwnn         .  16OZ  .  ,,  „ 

354  3I0I:  John  lloyd  [?  of  Boresham}    See  3.59  below 

Pa  wr  o  waed  pvr  i  wedd     ....  q 

profedig  priaf  ydyw  .  l602  -  „  „ 

359  Mol:  Syr  John  lloyd  0  Jal  marchog  0  ryvel     See  354  above 

Pwyn  wr  gvvycli  penn  ar  y  gwaed     ....  r 

a  jarll  i  bo  evrlliw  ban         .  1602  . 
364  Mol:  tonias  niorys  ap  tomas  or  betws  .  1580  . 

tomas  hael  yt  i  mae  serch     ....  s 

diiw  ai  kynnydd  dv  kennyd  „  „ 

36?         Gagog  wyd  leidr  a  gwgvs  &e.  Vd:  up  ywilym     t 

368  Muliant  4  broder  0  bowys.  l602  . 

Piav  bonnedd  pob  ynys     ....  11 

krist  duw  gall  kroesed  y  gwyr  /"-.  Dwnn 

371   Mar:  Hoel  ap  Syr  Mathe,"  milwr"  .   .  "  oedd  athro 

herdd "  :  tvoes  duw  nos  tros  diuessydd     ....  v 

daioni  duw  yw  enaid         .  i5§1  . 


598  PENIA.HTH  MANUSCRIPT   96. 

375  Mar:  Huw  arwystl  "posfardd  kerdd"  .  -ISSs  . 

Y  bardd  gwych  beraidd  i  gan     ....  a 
duw  aeth  a  huw  doetha  hwnn     See  p.  535  below    L.  Dwnn 

379  Ma?:-  Rrys  ap  huw  jjoiven  "  karw  o  mrth  keri  wenn  oedd" 

Mawr  ywr  lief  am  eryr  llwyd     ....  i 

nef  i  hwun  a  fv  hynod         .  15§3  . 

383  Awdlfol:  Richart  Uoyd  ap  tomas.  ^5/7  • 

Pvnav  avr  damav  ir  dyrnas  /  Eroessoch  /     .     .     .     .         c 
kai  fyth  ai  beniad  kyfoeth  avr  bvnav 

386  J  Rich:  Harbart  "  aer  TT.  .  .  kolbrwg  Rraglan"   l602 

Y  kawr  or  park  eryr  pvr     ....  d 
kroessa  Eichart  harbart  hydd 

390  Mar:  John  Prys  o  Ogerddan.  l602  . 

klych  holl  gred  klowch  i  hyll  gri     ...  e 

Erodd  lief  yw  tad  Erwydd  naf  teg 

39-1:  Mol:  Lewys  gwynn  o  Lan  idloes.  l602  . 

eryr  Gwynn  a  roer  gwinoedd     ....  / 

kroes  duw  a  Iwck  krist  yw  lys 

399  Mol:  John  Uoyd  o  geisswynn  ^' gwr  im  oes  gorav  am  avr" 

y  Hew  mawr  gall  am  avrged     ....  g 

i  riwlioi  sswydd  i  rel  ssion         .  -JdOZlsic]  .  l60T[sic~\  . 

403  Mol:  Gruff:  Vychan  o  gorsy  gedol.  1602  . 

y  gwr  am  fwyd  ag  arian  h 

ag  avr  ir  gler  geirwir  glan 

a  gwin  rad  .  .  .  .  bir  a  medd     .... 

pavn  dinag  penn  dwy  wynedd 

407  Mol:  tomas  Sions  "  mastr  o  varfs,"  "person  kastell "... 

llan  gyniiu  :  y  Gwr  o  ddysg  iraidd  fon     ....  i 

yd  ymann  i  damvno         .  -lOos  . 
412  Mol:  tomas  prrys  ap  dd:  ap  ithel.  1603  . 

Fob  prydydd  yssydd  ai  son     ....  h 

dros  i  gledd  deiroes  i  glod 
416  Mar:  Edio:  Rolant  o  Lyn.  l60Z  . 

troes  duw  ar  lyn  trist  yw'r  wlad  .  .  tros  myllteyrn  ...    / 

kroes  didwyll  kroessed  edwart 
421  Mol:  tomas  ap  rrys  ap  hiiw  o  dregytion.  l602  . 

Y  dewr  or  gwaed  eryr  gwych     ....  m 
hwy  del  vwch  hoedl  a  iechyd 

425  Mar:  tomas  ap  dd:  Uoyd  a  lan  dysul 

Wylais  achwerddais  och  wyr     ....  n 

ai  biniwn  ni  bv  anoeth — end  torn  out 
429  Mol:  Dd:  Uoyd  mab  dd:  o  ddinas  y  mowddwy.  1603  . 

Y  dewr  llwyd  or  jeirll  ydyw     ....  o 
dav  kan  hwyl  dai  kynhalion 

433  Mol:  Syr  wiliam  Morgan — sirif  ac  vstvs  irwych  . 

Morganiaid  nis  margeiniaf  p 

Syr  irwych  siwr  i  evro        .  l6llf  . 
437  Mol:  Syr  Rolant  Morgan  o  "  bydwellte  " 

Pwyn  Hew  Glan  penn  llu  ai  Gledd  (j 

bid  yn  larll  eb  wad  i  ni. 
441  31ol:  Edwart  Morgan  barion  llan  tarnam.  I6l6  . 

byw  irwyf  ebawr  ofal     ....  r 

didwyll  fal  i  hen  deidiav 


POETRt   BY   LEWIS   DWNN.  599 

446  My  sweete  loue  and  deorest  Juell     ....  a 
lett  yo'  loue  be  corespondent     .... 

for  yo"^  kindnes  alwaies  to  me.  L.  Dwnn 

447  gorffen  koioydd  /  It  /  vtris  yio 

i  Lan  vihangel  enyd     ....  b 

oil  vddynu  gida  Uwyddiant         .   1()03  . 

b.  Mol:  edw:  Wynn  o  Lan  ivddyn 

downn  i  evnant  ynn  vnion     ....  c 

bollt  avr  oedd  bvellt  dir  waedd  (i,  82)  || 

451  II  Porfadir  ag  ytir  gwych     ....  d 
kapel  ]fevan  lan  ai  lys     .     ,     .     . 

diiw  kadw  huw  degked  yw  hwnn     .... 
kadw  gavnor  yw  kyd  gynal     .... 
Hiiw  a  bono  vo  henoed         .  'l603  . 

452  Mol:  Huw  bodwrda  o  lymi  pan  fvn  ynys  enlli 

af  i  lyn  i  foliannv     ....  e 

bid  yn  iarll  eb  wad  ini         .  i602  . 

456  Mol:  Rich:  fychan  o  dal  yr  henbont.  l602  . 

Y  gwr  ir  sad  geirwir  ssydd     ....  /' 

kidan  oessoedd  kadw  rissiart 

460  f  Rich:  ffylip  :  Saetbawdd  gcrdd  M'erdd  ag  ar  wawd  /  (/ 

Saetb  ddv  /  saeth  wann  o  fyfyrdawd     .... 

ynglan  dyvi  .  .  •  J  dalia  bonk  diwlas  bytli  .  lOOl  .' 

461  Kefais  gann  ddychan  nas  heddycher/  byth     ....  Ii 
lewys  dwn  ue  voth  las  di         .  iSOS  .                                I{ich:fft/lip 

b.  Hari  vyehan  lan  olevni  /  ssiroedd  /     .     .     .     .  i 
was  dwun  os  Uyveesi  di  .                                                              Anon 

c.  Os  meiddi  djdi  dvdwedd/  dy  heuw  i  /  &c.  -lOol  .  L.  Dwnn  k 

4G3      Table  of  contents  in  a  modern  hand — continued  on  p. 

463  Mar:  rissiart  harbart  or  park — "ymeifod  i  mac  afar"  .  1603  . 

troes  duw  gwyn  tros  deg  ynys     ....  / 

i  bor  gwrol  bvr  gariad 

467  Mar:  andro  Sion — ^'  trosdref  kicyned" .  160^  . 

troes  duw  waeniwn  trist  enyd     ....  m 

duw  gadaru  vo  dy  geidwad 

471   Biol:  valanl  ap  Richiart — "arg:  PennRos  .  .  u<j  ystiud  daw" 

Dewr  or  leirll  a  dyrr  yr  onn     ....  n 

bonwr  gwych  benn  ai-  i  gwaitli         .  -l603  , 

476  Mol:  Wm:  Gibwn  ?  o  lan  giviw.  1592  . 

Y  (lyn  ir  hael  dann  avr  Ervdd     ....  o 
koffr  y  beirdd  kaiff  dir  y  byd 

480  Mol:  Mathe  harbart  o  golbrwg    .  160^  . 

Or  How  gwynn  yn  ]eirll  a  gaid     ....  p 

a  da  Iwyddiant  el  iddo 

48.5  Mol:  dd:  am  hredydd  :  Y  dyn  pvr  da  jawn  parod     ....  q 

da  diiw  a  fo  u  dy  dy  fyth  ?ch;  lieiliailh 

468  jf  howel  ap  bedo  kastell  dros  ow:  ap  Mred:  ap  dd:  goch  . 

Y  dyn  a  gras  duw  n  y  grvdd     ....  r 
drwy  gael  i  bwyth  draig  loiw  i  bais                                Otvaln  gwijnedd 

491   Mol:  Morganl  ap  Mred:  "  Efv  siryf  .  .  .  y  maesyfedd    .    . 

ben  a  ffont"" :  bardd  wi  /n/  ol  y  beirdd  on  jaith     .     .     .    s 
bid  yn  jarll  eb  wadd  i  ni.  ,  16^0 


coo  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  96. 

495  Mol:  Edw:  Pilston  o  drefalvn,  1601^  . 

Y  karw  enwog  hir  einioes     .     ,     .     i  u 
klo  y  dalaith  klyw  dwy  wlad                           Leioys  Dwnn 

500  Mol:  niadog  esgob  Bangoi- 

Duw  byw  ann  Eroes  Uyw  lien  bendevig     ....  b 

mal  bendagedawl  bendagedig  ferwerth  Kyrioy 

502  Mol:  Sion  ernallt  o  harm,  tonny.  1603  . 

Y  Gwr  ir  dewr  geirwir  doeth     ....  c 
kodiad  yw  ssir  keidw  duw  ssion 

507       II  ddail  ovydd  mal  Ivor  liael  gynt     ....  d 

ar  y  da  dyfiad  evra  duw  d.  [o  Wern  y  buartJi]      .  13^9. 

511  jf  erchi  horn  dros  Rrich:  ap  ll'n  i  Jeu:  ap  Mathe 

ap  morys  ^c. — y  dyn  ir  mwyn  dann  avr  mal     .     .     .      e 
gore  tyf  gair  yt  ifan         .  1518  . 

515  Mol:  Sion:  Mae  adeilad  medwaledd  .  .  .  bigeildy  ...  / 

bedeiroes  hydd  bid  air  Sion         .  /579  . 

618  Blar:  kydioaladr  ap  owain  .  .  felindre  .  .  yny  beryw  .   , 

dydj  eirad  ydoedd  arwyl     ....  g 

Naf  da  doeth  i  naf  duw  deg         .  15T§  . 
3Iol:  gilbert  wmffre  o  dahjhont 

522       dawn  a  rydd  bevnydd  eb  Ead     ....  It 

enaid  y  gwyr  ond  y  gwnn         .  7577  • 

527       Pvvy  u  gorf  o  ryra  pwy  n  gryf  wraidd     ....  i 

koiFr  y  beirdd  kaiff  air  y  byd         .  15§0  . 

531   Mol:  dd:  ap  Edw:  o  Lan  dyssvl,  -ISyS  . 

Power  Bsiob  pa  wr  y  ssydd     ....  k 

yw  tir  oedd  at  weryddon 

535  Mar:  H.  arwystl :  Y  bardd  gwych  &c.       See  p.  375  above.         I 

538  kiwgarau  tinwau  tan  o  goeg  arthgi  &c.         13§Ji  .  m 

539  J  ririd  ab  rob: — Pwy  n  Hew  Gwaed  pwy  n  llowio  gvryr  .  .  .  n 

i  dyfv  rrent  a  fo  rrwydd         ,  -1379  , 

542  Mar:  rrys  ap  ow:  ap  llelo  or  Beryw  yng  hwmwd  kydewain 

Yr  enaid  aeth  ir  vn  diiw     ....  o 

na  cliael  fyth  bael  o  vath  liwnn         ,  15T§  . 
546  Mar:  Sion  pry s  or  mynachdy .  151^  . 

Kalonav  deav  dvedd  :  yn  ocbain     ....  p 

taro  kalanedd  tori  kalonav 
550       Ecddion  Rys  lewys  olevwedd  .  siriol  q 

Siryf  Sir  Vaesshyfedd     .... 

Erys  eryr  rwyddwycli  Eroes  avr  o  roddion         .  IS^Q  . 
555  Mar:  Mastres  elsbeth  herbart  merch  Syr  Wm:  .   /SJi)  . 

kann  kalon  kann  bronn  kwyn  brad  kann  mlyuedd  ...      r 

griddfan  kwyn  kvlaeh  greddfvn  kann  kalon 
560  Mar:  ales  vi  rissiart  ap  tomas  .  ^57p  . 

troes  diiw  ocli  trist  i  wchion     ....  s 

i  enaid  honn  awna  tal 
5G4  3'[ol:  Siamys  ap  dd:  llteyd  o  gaer  einicn  .  137!)  ■ 

Kalonn  kaer  einion  kyrenydd :  powys     ....  t 

maet  )or  draw  meirchion  maet  air  tri  marcliog. 
567  Mol:  Mastr  Wm:  lewys  ystiioart  swydd  efenni 

Kalonn  llv  dynion  Hew  downys :  mwslra     ....  u 

kar  golwg  kowir  galon         .  15S0  . 


POETEY   BY  LEWIS  DWNN.  601 

572  Mar:  S.  ap  morus  ap  R.  "  Kwijn  Keri  a  mon"  .   ioSO  . 

Kami  kalon  i  ssion  yssydd  :  yn  kwycaw     ....  « 

kawn  ssor  kwynil  ssias  kann  ssir  kwyu  ssion       L.  Dwnn 

577  Mol:  Edw:  herhart :  Pwyu  wr  gwycli  peiin   [?  ar  y  gart]   .  .  h 
koel  glan  jawn  wycl  kael  glin  avr         .  '/577  • 

581   Mol:  tomas  tanacl  ap  (van  llwyd  o  abertanad 

Uys  danad  yw  lies  dynionn     ....  c 

pavn  ir  ssad  penn  arr  y  ssir         .  ^576  . 

586  Mol:  mastr  rrichiari prys  bikar  kerri  .   1569  . 

dug  moesson  ddibon  i  ddysg     ....  d 

kob  i  esgob  a.  'wisgycli 

590  Y  bwa  :  Y  karw  kyredig  hirwynn     ....  c 

bid  ar  Sion  bedair  oes  hydd  ,  -IS^g  . 

594  Mar:  Sion  ap  gr:  ap  Owain  or  ber-j/w  .  iSJ!)  . 

lessv  a  rydd  oes  i  rai     .     .     .     .  f 

i  nef  iddo  n  i  feddiant 
598  Mar:  M'' rissiart  "  Iieri  afvnkweirio  i  vedd."    See  p.  HSG  above 

Troes  diiw  alar  tros  ddwy  wlad g 

wyr  vathav  gocli  .  .  ,  gorwyr  .  .  tomas  ap  rrys  .  .  . 

uef  i  rissiart  uaf  rassol         .  7576'  . 

602       Mastr  rissiart  herbart  hirbarch :  uliwy     ....  h 

gwreiddian  well  gradd  anilloch    (1-  16) 

COS  Mol:   Olfir  lltvyd  or  Jlai :  Y  Gwaed  hen  a  gyd  tyunai  .  .     i 
kadw  da  doeth  keidw  duw  dithav  .   -1582  . 

608  Mar:  ssion  ssal  bri  0  rvg  .  15§1  . 

Y  wlad  haelwych  Iv  tylwytb     ....  k 

kidai  ssaiut  da  keidw  duw  ssion 

613  Mol:  dd:  llwt/d  blaenav  pan  yn  ssiryf  sir  trefuldwyn 

Ysgwiair  llwyd  gy  garllaw     .     .     .  - ,  I 

efrog  kolerog  klaerwynn         .  7577  • 

617  A  fragment — 4  lines,  ending  : 

krist  duw  liael  kroesa  di  hwnn         .   l6o^  .  ni 

b.  Mol:  Ed:   Gr: — f  ^y  evrlew  y  derwl^^■yn     ....  n 

doed  yn  blj'g  da  diiw  n  i  bias         .  l60!f  . 
621       Y  Gwr  or  park  [yn  irvon]  geirwir  per     ....  0 

llwyr  o  brjns  Hew  avr  y  brvd    (1.  32) 

623  Mol:  brycheiniog  :  odymofyn  dyn  na  dav     ....  p 

ym  yw  houno  im  henaint  Ho:  ap  dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  rys 

626  lie  nid  teg *     .     .     .     .  q 

angel  dv  yugwlad  evas  gotor  gli/n 

627  ?)■  bytheiad :  Howel  wiufaetli  hael  iawfvtld     ....  r 
Howel   [fychau]   por  ym  fainhav                                        Jeu:  Devbvt/u 

630  koegfirostiais  f  * 

ystafrafint  fynwes 

631  Edymar  byd   * 

y  kaniadav  kwyn  ydoedd  ■ | 

koeg  II 

632  apsenwr  wyd  wr  dy  eiriav  kelwydd  &c.  iOOS  .     L.  Dwnn  u 


*   Very  many  lines  w.nnt  their  endings, 
t  AH  the  lines  urant  their  endings. 
y  034SO. 


602  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   96. 

633  Mol:  Dd:   Wynn  o  Dal  y  hont  .  1605  . 

trist  o  vodd  i  troes  duw  fyd     ....  a 

yn  fynych  nef  yw  enaid  L,  Dwmi 

636    Y  krowner  o  Ian  vair  yngxcent  .   l603  . 

y  krowner  kv  aranodd     ....  b 

y  bw  difalch  bo  dafydd 

640  Mol;  Syr  John  gams  marchog  .   1603  . 

Marchog  orym  ar  ych  gras     ....  e 

karwr  glwys  kai  evror  glin 

643  Mol:  Syr  edtv:  awbre  marchog  .   l60o  . 

Y  wlad  orav  bv  dewrion     ....  d 
kawn  yn  jarll  o  kanwn  vir 

647  Mar:  iomas  morgan  o  dref  degr  .    1605  , 

korff  krist  pwy  nid  trist  pond  trwstan  /  mow  *  #  .  .  e 

keidw  reang  olav  kidar  engylion 

652  Mol:  lewys  Tomas  o  Riw  perai  ymorganwg    .  160S  . 

Pwy  or  haelion  pvr  hylwydd     ....  / 

J  bor  gwr  a  biavr  gwaith 

656  Mar:  tomas  vychan  o  Lowes  .   1605  . 

ef  aetb  wylo  n  faith  alar     ....  g 

j  wlad  nef  eled  ya  iacii 

662  Mol:  Mastr  Wiliams  o  gastell  newydd  ar  icysg  .  l605  . 

Pa  vrr  o  ddysg  pvr  i  ddawn     ....  /* 

diiw  ai  dichon  doed  jechyd 

667  Mol:  tomas  ap  Jcuan  ap  andro  o  varcJieiniog 

Y  gwr  am  fwyd  ag  arian     ....  i 
kodiad  imi  keidw  domas         .  l60^  . 

670  31ol:   Wiliam  niklas  .  16Q5  . 

Y  gwr  biev  deg  or  brodir     ....  /i 
perych  einioes  parch  henwr 

674  Mar:  Edw:  tnab  Ereinallt  Jtilffigan  bryn  hvgaf  .  l603  . 

Gwaer  byd  teg  ar  bowyd  hwnn     ....  I 

yn  viVddwalch  nef  iddo 

678  ^  Syr  To;  mostyn  :  Marchog  glan  mawr  vwcb  klod  ....       m 

pinagl  a  thopp  i  wynedd  John  tiidur 

679  Mol:  Syr  J.  Salbri :  Y  marchog  brigog  &c.      4  lines  only.       n 

689  Mar:  Harri  )arll  hrangon 

duw  gadarn  ai  dig  ydwyd     ....  a 

Haw  lloegr  ai  naill  llygad  (1.  28)||  Lewys  Morgannwg 

681       II  Iletv  fv  holl  gymrv  i  gyd     ....  p 

chwithav  n  dwyn  swyddav  dan  sel 
a  ddoethoch  i  raddav  vchel     .... 
ni  b\n  hegengl  .  .  .  vn  marchog     .... 
dwy  fil  ni  thorai  dy  farn  (go  li.)]| 

683       ll  pob  arfav  achav  vchel     ....  q 

perych  einioes  parch  henocd  (Ull.)     .    1565  .      L.  Dwnn 

b.  Mar:  tomas  loyn  o  Lynn  ILiwon 

troes  duw  gwynn  tros  dwy  wynedd     ....  r 

a  g.alvv  maith  ag  v/ylo  mor(l.  94)|| 

687      Hawdd  oi  ol  i  kanmolwn  &c.         Ho:  gethln  .  .  o  gorwen  s 


PdKTRY   BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  60,3 

b.  Mol:  Richard  hrochdyn  vn  or  hjngor 

Y  gwr  geirvvir  gwar  &c.  a 

The  endings  of  all  the  lines  are  wanting  as  well  as  the  end  of  the  cywydd. 

689  A  fragment  of  a  marwnad  to  some  one  from  JJandwrog 
lofio  died  in  lOOJ,  ending  :  *  mynwes  duw  niiinn  o  stor  L,  Dwnn 

690  A  fragment  {!,.  II!)  beginning     tros  wyiiedd  i  troes  enyd  &c. 


MS.  97  =  Hen.  306.  Poetrt  by  Meilir,  Gwalchmai,  Prydydd 
y  moch,  Bleddyn  vardd,  and  the  poets  of  the  xvth,  xvith,  and  xviith 
centuries.  Paper;  7^x5  inches  j  330  pages  much  injured  at  the 
beginning,  pages  1-76  being  more  or  less  imperfect  ;  written  circa 
1605  (p.  305)  up  to  page  291  ;  pp.  292-S7"are  apparently  in  the 
hand  of  Robert  Vaughan  of  Hengwrt  ;  bound  in  white  vellum. 

Note  reference  to  Syi-  John  Wyu  of  Gwydir  on  p.  280. 

1       Y  d  ....  b 

mab  sion  [FIuio  Arw^ysfl 

5      Dwrn  a  dar  e  ....  c 

cyfraith  fyd  Sion  phylip 

8       [Kledd  dayar  wynejdd  ai  drych  &c.     Sec  p.  (j\  below  d 

11       llyma  haf  llw[m  i  hoywfarddj     ....  e 

a  chlikied  yn  ia  ll'n  go'i  ap  \^Meurig  hen'\ 

14  frkailiog:  law  jvj  gwydiai[     ....  / 

[  ]  baradwysgerdd  \_Huw'\  Arwystl 

16       [Y]  bardd  iowndrefn  bwrdd  [windraul]     ....  g 

Rys  ynghwrt  [prys  ynhop  rhod]  W.  [kymral] 

19       Y  bardd  gwyn  e[  ]     .     .     .     .  A 

i  gid  i  rhof  gida  Eh[ys]  Jo'tii  tudyr 


23       Merddin  wyllt  a 
ai  chael  o  fodd 


m  ryw  ddyn  wyf]     ....  i 

i  chalon]  jfeuan  Dyfi 

26   Y  kledde  .•  [  j  ay  awnay  a  say  /  n  /  ysig     ....        k 

oedd  trigaredd  iddaw        D.  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr  • 

28   C.  liymcd  rhwng  Ilumffre  ap  Ho:  ap  Jenhin  a  thydijr 

vijchan  Sj-c. — Y  kcirw  mawr  y  keir  i  medd     .     .     .     .      I 
er  deigr  mair  deg  [ar  i  mab]  Tydr  aled 

34   C.  kymod  Rhwng  gr:  vychan  a  Rhys  or  iotvyn 

Damwain  blin  yw  /r/  byd  yma     ....  w 

roi  ar  iarll  peufro  i  rwy  Deio  ap  jfeuan  dH 

37   ¥r  Eira :  heinian  nodedig  hoywnwyf     ....  n 

dyn  wyf  na  bwyf  hwy  [  ]  ll'n  go}  ap  metirig  hen 

39  jf  gymodi  Ho:  ap  gr:  dcrivas  a  Ho:  [  Tydyr^  o  Iwydiarth 

ymhotoys :  gryffydd  beisrydd  bowysran     ....  o 

a  gwin  yra  nannav  a  gaf  Tydxjr  Penllyn 

42  f  Syr  Ho:  y  fwyall :  a,  welodd  neb  a  wela     ....  p 

/  n  /  gam  ^echyd  ir  gwr  jfolo  go} 

44  &  70  jfr  byd:  [Po]nd  angall  na  ddevallwn     ....  q 

or  Haw  yno  ir  ll[ywenydd]  Syr  Dd:  trefor 

47       Y  lyn  iraidd  fain  ara     ....  r 

th  yAV  ai  mine  yw  chad         ?  Dd:  llwyd  ap  hugh 

V  2 


604  PENIARTH  MAl<fUSCRIET   97. 

60  J  ofyn  gweyrj/l  \verc]h  tho:  dros  S.  ap  [jr;]  ap  hari 

or  ton  fane  :  [Y  ll]e.w  doniog  llydanwyn     ....         a 
a  ddaw  yn  i  lie  dd  dd:  llieyd  [  ] 

53  J  ofyn  gwn  yan  hwniffre  ap  Rees  o  fodl  iciddan  dros 

J.  Cad''  or  Rhiwlas :  y  karw  f  fane  arafwych     ...      6 
wy  fo  gwn  wrtli  tret'  [  sion  tydyr 

57  f  [Robert]  Edtoartes  dros  Ris  [ap  dd:']  i  ofyn  march 

Or  aweu  fraisg  or  nef  fry     ....  c 

dyro  nag  ir  draen  John  phylip 

61  f  ddiolch  am  varch  a  roese  W.  V[ychan'\  o  gilgeran 

kledd  dayar  wynedd  ai  dryc[h]     ....  d 

amgen  na  cherdd  am  gnyw  chwyru  Tydr  Aled 

QA  Mar:  Syr  0.  ap  gtm:  [Tr]wm  ar  ia  y w  tramwy^/r/  od  .  .    .      e 
i  trig  addysg  tragwyddawl  fVm:  llyii 

67  fr  7  bechod  marwol :  meddylied  am  yddoli     ....  / 

■wrth  raid  im  enaid  amen  sion  y  kenf 

68  jf  Owe7i  tydr  o  ben  mynydd  man 

gwyddom  woddi  ag  goddef     ....  0 

yc  rhydd  i  ben  mynydd  mon  jfeu:  gethin  amhadog 

72  &  289  fr  byd :  Gwae  a  f vvrio  gof  oferwas     ....  h 

ith  wlad  dQw  itli  we'.ed  ti  Jeuan  brydydd  hir 

74  Mar:  D.  ap  GVm:  Dafydd  ap  gwilim  y  my     ....  i 

*  llaw^n  hadd  nowradd  nef  gr:  gryg 

76  Mar:  Gr:  gryg  :  Tost  oedd  ddwyn  tyst  hav/ddamawr  ...       k 
i  nef  gwlwfoedd  gwae  fi  faeth  dd:  ap  gwilim 

79  jfr  Hong  :  Anoild  ym  fyw  vn  awr     ....  I 

petwu  /i/  mynwn  ymod  Jolo  goch 

81  Mar:  Edward  Owen  orr  hengwrt  .  lOOJf  . 

Oer  fy  swn  ar  lis  ^onawr     ....  vt 

enaid  Edwart  nodedig  Richard  Philip 

86  Pen  lifer  y  pask  poeii  ryfel  /  vr  all  dydd  Ar  ol  dig  wyl  ddeifel         n 
ax  prif  ar  vn  pnvf  ir  el  jf  digwydd  Owen  dogel./ 

h.        (P'tsg  ar  wylfair  gair  beli  gel  ar  grces  Ar  gras  ar  ddyrchafel  o 

I'ymp  yn  y  prif  rhifi  rhel  Dyna'r  liaf  i  daw  rhyfel./) 

c.        Madog  -wyf  rawyedig  wedd  ^.iwu  genau  Owain  Gwynedd         Mred:  p 
Ni  fyiinai  dir  venaid  oedd  Na  da  mawr  ond  y  raorocdd  ap  It. 

87  Civdl  a  gant  yn  y  lliiydd  y  lias  Trahaern  ap  Caradoc  a 

Meilir  ap  Rhiwallon  ap  Cynfyn 
Gwolycliaf  ym  rhen  Kex  awyr     ....  q 

tru  a  nos  yd  ith  ladder./  Meilir prididd 

h.  Arwyrain  Madawg  ap  Meredydd 

Arddwyriiaf  deyrn  eiirgyrn  addawd     ....  r 

A  cliiidwaladr  mawr  muv  pob  kiwdawd  Gwalchmai 

89  Mar:  Howel  ap  Griffith  ap  Conan 

Howel  ddiogel  ddiogan//  deyrn     ....  s 

Arglwydd  boed  bywydd  howell  /  prydydd  y  moch 

90  V  caw,  bychan  i  Lewelin  ap  Jorwerth 

Cyfiirchaf  im  rhen  cyvarchfawr  awca     ....  t 

J  ei'yr  kymwyr  kymod  a  tlii  prydydd  y  moch 

92  3Icir:  Rees  Grug  mab  Arglwydd  Rees 

llawer  deigyr  hydyraer  ay  hynt     ....  u 

krair  oedd  i  luoedd  i  law  Prydydd  y  moch 


POETRY  BY  BLEDDYN  VARDD,   ETC.  605 

93  Owdl  i  Gniffudd  Maelor  ap  Madoc 

Y  sydd  yn  arglwydd  eurgledd  ganllaw     .     ,     .     .  a 
Duw  o  nef  a  vo  nertla  iddaw                                llygat  r/wr 

94  y  Lywelyn  ap  Gniffudd,  ap  Madawg 

Hanpych  -well  hydd  bell  bwyll  artlerchawg     ....         b 
gael  trigaredd  gan  duw  trigarawg 

93  J  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  U'n  :  Vy  argi:  clydlwydd  clod  addaa  vchel  .  .    c 
Ueiddyad  argleitrad  arglwydd  ,  /  Bleddyn  vardd 

96  /  0.  ap  Gr: — Doethyw  am  Owain  doethwawr  oe  gollett  .  .  .  d 
Aerwalch  awyddvalch  ywein  „ 

98  Mar:  llywelyn  ap  Gr:  a  l&s  ym  muellt .  / 

Crist  arglwydd  rhwydd  rhodd  a  archaf     ....  e 

yn  rhan  trigaredd  fowredd  fwyaf  „ 

100  Oivdyl  i  Owen  Goch  ap  Gr:  ap  U'n 

Angall  a  ddyall  yddym  ynddaw     ....  f 

hael  vab  rad  i  dad  a  dug  attaw  .  /  ,, 

101  f  Rys  ap  Meredit  ap  Rys* 

Ardwyreaf  naf  neirthyat  tyyruedd     ....  g 

dawn  attlam  diuam  duw  am  danat  „ 

103  Mar:  Ddauyd  ap  Gr:  ap  Lhyrcelyn 

Duw  dy  nawdd  rhag  tavvdd  tan  llachar  /  vfferu  ....         h 
gwawr  gwerthvawr  boet  trugar  .  /  „ 

104  Mar:  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  0.  {Brogyntyn)  ap  Mad:  ap 

Mered :  duw  a  ddiig^attaw  budd  walaw  byt     ....        i 
lie  mae'r  mab  ar  tat  ar  teg  yspryt  „ 

105  Marwysgav-n  Bleddyn  Vardd  ar  i  glaively 

Eibyn  fi  fy  rhif  rhwyf  bedyddiawl     ....  Jt 

yn  lieyrnas  nef  naf  ysprydawl .  /  „ 

107-8     These  pages  and  the  greater  part  of  p.  106  are  blank. 

109  Mar:  Hotvel  ap  SeinMn  ap  for:  ap  Einon  o  Doivyn 

Hawddamawr  vwch  llawr  y  llyn     ....  I 

J  gadwr  tai  gwydr  Towyn  .  /  Jlowel  Rheinallt 

\\\  fferch:  lie  gwn  gael  oil  i  gan  gwlad     ....  m 

iris  i  fod  yn  savadwy  Gr:  Iliraelhog 

1 14       Tydi  'r  gwynt  tad  eira  ag  od     .     .     .     .  n 

A  chan  owdl  o  yehneidiaii  .  /  Mredydd  ap  Rees 

116  _7  ^'■•'  Vyclian  ap  Gr:  ap  £inton  ag  Elisaii  ifrawd ,  / 

Y  ddaii  lew  o  wyddelwern     ....  o 
dyio  vddyn  bedeiroes                                  Tudyr  Penllyn  ,  / 

118  ^  Gr:  vychan  ap  G.  ap  E.  pan  aetk  Jarll  Penfro  ir  diur 

yn  y  Bermo:  Y  Carw  ifanc  a  eiirir     ....  p 

Oni  ddel  Owain  ddylwyd  „ 

120  Mar:  Gr:  Vychan  ap  G.  ap  Einion 

T>\xv{  yr  hen  dug  Edward  freuin     ....  q 

Gwyddelwern  .  .  .  gweddw  yw  i  giiddiaw  ef    .     .     .     . 
Oes  hir  ir  arglwyddes  hon  .  /  GtUtd'r  Glyn 

123  J  Dino :  ^  dxliiw  i  rwyf  weddiwr     ....  r 

Gair  dy  fab  a  gredaf  fi  .  /  John  Brwynog 


*  7  imperfect ;  blank  space  left  in  two  places. 


606  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  97. 

126  Mar:  Gr:  ap  Adda  ap  Dauidd  a  las  yn  Nolgellay 

Rhagor  mawr  gaer  a  mvr  gwngalch     ....  « 

a  ne  in  yneidie  yn  ol ./  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  IfJn  Vychan 

128       O  Gyfarch  yn  y  gafell     ....  h 

Diiw  awnel  yn  dwyn  yw  wledd  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 

131       Y  grog  waredog  o  riw  duw  meirchion     ....  c 

pawb  ar  y  grog  pybiir  groes  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  IL'n  V'n 

136  Mol:  Hugh  Nannau :  I)yn  a  gododd  duw'n  gadarn  ...        d 
chwigennos  ywch  iw  gynnal  Rhys  Cain 

140  Mol:  Sion  ap  Dd:  Abad  Uanegwystl 

Euron  iiwch  goron  ewch  i  gynnydd  sin     ...     .  e 

euro  rhaid  ar  i  rhediad  Tudur  Aled 

145  Mar:  Hmnffrey  ap  Ho:  ap  Sianhin  o  ynys  y  maengwyn 

Son  ofod  y  sy  'n  i  vedd     ....  / 

tros  wr  ty  tryssor  Towyn     .  15^5  .  Gr:  Hiraethog 

3Jarwnadeu  Rhydderch  ap  Evan  llwyd 
148       Doe  klowais  mi  a  geissiais  gel    ....  g 

a  roddo  duw  i  E.ydderch  Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

150       Y  dydd  i  lliiniwyd  Adtlaf     ....  h 

kwpla  er  Adda  Ryddercli  Gr:  lloyd  ap  D  ap  Enion 

152  Mar:  Sion  Eos  :  Drwg  i  neb  a  drigo  no!     ....  i 

oes  yn  Ddiiw  i  Sion  Eos  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt  Hangmer 

155       Y  fiin  glaer  fwnwgl  iraidd  k 

a  bare  grug  biir  i  grwaidd     .... 
aiir  ffein  fiin  orffen  feinoes  ^eu:  ILywelyn  [  Vychan~\ 

157  Atvdl  i  Lewys  ap  Owen  y  harwn 

Artbiir  ail  Prediir  nid  prydd  wyd  /  Lewys     ....  I 

wrtb  wyr  gwiueyfaeth  Arthur  gynyddau    Syr  O.  ap  Gtm 

161  Mar:  Harri  viii :  Oerloes  gwar  groes  gwir  grog  /  mab  ...    m 
a  diiw  waed  a  geidw  Edwart  Lewys  Morganwg 

164  _f  Harri  vii :  j  Diiw  dodes  fEortiin  do  doded  hirhoedl  ...      n 
dewr  a  fiert  ydiw'r  ffortiin  Lewys  Ghjn  Cothi 

167  J  Harri  viii:  Harri  fab  Harri  pered  yr  ^essii     .     .     .     .      o 
a  thair  oes  hirion  ith  ras  Harri  Sion  Brwijnog 

171  jf  Ho:  [?  ap  Grono'\  ap  Tudur  ap  Ednyfyd  Vychan, 

dean  Bangor  circa  135g,  elected  Bishop  13')1, 
Arglwydd  canonswydd  vnsiid  Mordeyrn  p 

a  deon  yngwlad  yr  hiid     .... 
naf  Mon  gloyw  ddeon  arglwyddiaidd  Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

172  jf  Sion  Wynn  ap  Mredydd 

Ysgwier  croywder  Cariadog  freyclifras     ....  q 

Croes  duw  a  fo  ynod  Crist  ai  faner .  /         Sion  Brwynog 

J  Rys  ap  Sion  o  lyn  nedd 
VII       Bardd  ydwyf  yn  breuddwydiaw     ....  j* 

dy  droi  Kys  or  di  dro  irwyd  Jerf;  fynglwyd 

179       Pa  ryw  dafad  piir  difai     ....  s 

ith  law  i  del  ath  wlad  eilwaith  Jerowerth  fytiglwyd 

181       Pand  hir  na  welir  end  nos     ....  t 

o  bydd  fy th  wrth  ych  bodd  fo  .  ferf:  fynglwyd 

184  JSanffraed:X  lleian  hardd  yw  llyn  houn     ....  u 

ffiiied  fwyn  diffryd  fy  enaid  „  „ 


POETEY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  607 

187  f  Ein:  ap  Yw:  dannwyn:  Y  cryfyddwr  cryf  addwyn     .  .  ■   « 
ath  winllau  wrth  borth  Etilli     .... 
ag  nur  .  .  a  roed  o  fon  ar  dy  fedd    .... 
dy  ras  gar  bron  diiw  ^fessii .  /  Howel  RheinaUt 

189  ^ sianhin  ap  3Ired:  ap  Rj/s  "tor  Tywyn  "  with  a  reference 
to  the  "  voyage  of  Madog  ap  Oiven  Gwynedd  " 
Och  wyi"  am  y  cyvcharor  .  .  .  aeth  ir  mor    ...  b 

fal  Madog  marchpg  y  medd 

baiiu  gwyn  fab  Owain  Gwynedd  CCf.  p.  86c,  above.) 

y  gwr  siwrneio  a  gai 
ar  foroedd  ir  arferai 

He  ing  i  bii  mewn  Hong  bell     .... 
ar  mab  hynaf  ai  cafas  |  yr  y  bwrdd     .... 
Mair  ai  dwg  or  mor  i  dir .  /  Deio  ap  fevan  Dil 

191  Jofyn  cymod  Gr:  ah  Einiawn  am  "  ffarii  heb  genad" 

Y  gwyr  darfii  n  vn  naid     ....  c 

«ch  bodd  ywr  ddwyrodd  eraill .  /  Howel  Cilan 

194  J  Ruff :  ap  Nicolas;  Gair  angel  y  gwr  yngod    ...  d 

dy  beu  yw  pen  ar  bob  peth  Gwilim  ap  Jeiian  hen 

196  Mnr:  Mallt  vi  Howel  selaii  o  Iwydiarth  ymhoivys 

farglwyddes  feistres  oeddfyw  a  difalch     ....  e 

a  chael  a  weles  vcliel  wiUaii  .  /  Tudyr  Pciillyn 

199  Mar:  D.  ap  Gwilim :  Da'r  feirdd  dewr  o  wr  f  u    .     .    .  / 

deheiibarth  udai  hebof .  /  Madog  Benfras 

201  Mar:  plant  Gruffiith  ap  Rees  "  brig  cloddaith" 

Sori'i  dduw  bensaer  ydd  wyd     ....  g 

vn  blaid  nef  cm  blodaii  ni .  /  Robin  Dii .  /  D.  Nanmor 

203  Mar:  Kin  Goch  vab  meirig  hen  . 

O  dduw  teg  ai  daet  hyn     ....  h 

prydydd  ymhorth  paradwys  jfolo  Goch 

206       Py  seitbyd  Powys  weithian     ....  i 

Hew  Hwydiaitb  allu  llydan     .... 
attal  rliag  gofal  gofld 
Owain  dy  law  yu  dy  lid     .... 
drwyddyn  bawb  drwy  dduw'n  ben .  Owen  Gwynedd 

209       Rbo  ddiiw  mawr  y  march  blawr  blwng    .    ,    .    .  k 

Peed  gwir  bowyd  hir  i  hwn  Jolo  Goch 

213       Y  fed  wen  las  anfadwallt     ....  / 

llety  imi  am  llattai     .... 
ai  crinaw  draw  yn  y  dref  Gr:  ap  Adda  ap  Dd: 

216  Mar:  Rhys  Nanmor  "  atoen  holl  ddeaii  " 

O  ^essu  buth  eissie  bardd     ....  m 

nenbien  pob  awen  pe  byw  Lewis  Mon 

219  Cyngor  i  S.  Conwy:  Mae  son  fal  moeseu  ne  fwy    ...        n 
trwy  ddiiw'n  Potryddan  wen  .  /  Sion  Tudur 

223  J  abad  Conivy  :  Gidag  vn  a  geidw  Gwynedd     ....        o 
fercli  deg  pei  cawn  farch  yw  dwyn  .  /  Tudur  Aled 

226       Y  tri  char  ar  tiirch  euraid     ....  p 

J  ber  gweler  ir  golwyth  Sion  Tudur. j 

230       Arwydd  pellenigrwydd  parcb     ....  q 

rhoed  yntau  iminnav'r  march  jfolho  Goch 


608  PENIASTH   MANUSCRIPT   97. 

231   J  erchi  cleddau  i  Dd:  ap  Gutten  o  Groesoswallt  i  ladd 

gwyr  Caer  lleon  :  Y  Hew  oedd  eurlliw  i  wallt     ...         a 
lladd  dwyfil  a  chledd  Dafydd  ,  /  Lewys  Glyn  Cothi 

234  llwyr  o  lietli  lie  aur  a  bwyd     ....  b 
gwyrda  nef  a  gair  daf  n  ol                               Chittun  Owen 

235  jf  Jfan  ah  Eitiion  ap  Gr:  ap  Ho:  o  Griccieth . 

^fan  ddewr  o  fewn  i  ddawn     ....  c 

yn  gadernvd  ir  byd  byth  Jfo,n  tvaed  ta 

237  J  Ow:  ap  Nicolas :  Tri  llii  a  aeth  trwyr  hoU  iaith    ...      d 
etto  i  roi  a  fo  trwmm .  /  Leieys  Glyn  Cothi 

239  Etto:  farll  hir  for  Hew  o  Vrien     ....  e 

na  dim  mwy  ond  am  Owaiu  „  „ 

241  Mar:  Rys  ap  Sion  o  Lyn  Nedd 

Vn  essiau  golaii  rrag  galon  /  y  aydd     ....  / 

weithian  o  eisiau  aeth  yn  isaf  Jorf:  Fynglwyd 

244  f  Dudur  ah  Jorferth  Sais 

Myddylio   iddwyf  mail  ddolur    ....  g 

a  thro  tra  fynych  a  tliiig .  /  Jihys  cynfric  each* 

247  ^  Sion  Salbri :  Y  Hew  o  Hug  garllaw'r  allt    ....  h 

aed  ar  Dduw  dy  vrddo  di .  /  Sion  Ttidtir 

249       Yr  eos  deg  aeres  dail     ....  i 

ai  cloi  raedd  ai  cael  ym  iawn  Rhys  Cain 

252       Dydd  da  ir  llwynoc  or  ogof     ....  k 

phurwel  rhaid  ym  ifo  ir  allt  Anon 

255  jf  Edw:  in :  Ed  wart  ap  Edwart  gwart  gwjT    ....  / 

yno  i  doi  yn  y  diwedd  jfolo  Goch 

259  Mar:  Tudiir  ap  Gronw  ap  Tudyr  ap  Gronw  tin  o  hynaif 
yn  Penllywydd  .     (obijt  circa  1367) . 
Klowais  doe  im  clyst  deau     ....  m 

na  hauer  mwy  yn  hir  Mon  Jolo  Goeh 

202   Cyff'es :  Crair  cred  yn  ced  cynydd     ....  n 

Dyro  ym  gyfraniad  otb  wlad  ath  wledd  ,,         „ 

271   Mol:  Howel  Coetmor  o  Nanhomoy 

Howel  kymro  o  bil  kymry     ....  o 

yleni  iddo  lonydd  „         „ 

273  Mol:  Rys  Gethin  o  Nwnconwy 

Byd  caeth  ar  waedoKaeth  da     ...     ,  p 

poed  yw  rann  pedeir  einioes  „        „ 

275  Mar:  Madog  ap  Madog  koch  o  Lewerllyd  ynhegaingl 

Mae  ol  arfa\^  atlga\i  d,ingl     ....  q 

0  huelder 1.  69 -left  unfinished 

277°  jf  Roht:  ap  Mred:  tnid  Mred:  ap  Jeuan  ap  Roh:  o  fVedir 
pan  ar  herw  gidag  Oiv:  Glyn  medde  Sir  John  Wynn 
Hir  i  bv  EufFudd  ruddbar     ....  r 

ymgais  ni  wnn  i  nragen  .  Rhys  Goch  or  Yri 

281  Mar:  D.  ap  G. — Hudol  doe  fu  liocdl  dafydd    ....  s 

a  theyru  oedd  aeth  ir  nef .  /  jfolo  Goch 


"  r.ni  fab  brawd  j  Jolo  Goch  a  <ili<gybl  iddnw  hef^d. 


POETRY  BY   JOLO   GOCH   AND  OTHERS.  609 

282  Mar:  Rys  ap  Tudiir  ap  Gronw  brawd  tad  Oiv:  Tudtir  .  j 

Tebig  yw  Gwynedd  meddir     ....  a 

eurfawl  ^or  wra  f'al  ef  Gr;  Gryg 

284  Mr:  Ow:  Tudiir  o  Von  :  Y  llii  mawr  ni  allai  mwy    ...  b 

■  yn  fyw  a  nef  i  Owain       feu:  Gethin  ap  Jew:  ap  ILeission 

287       Myvr  j  rwyf  yn  ymovyn  .  .  beta  orev  i  ddyn  ...  c 

gyda  mail-  y  gyd  .  Amea*  Jolo  Goch 

291  {Jr  Pasg :  Dydd  p^ro  gyssvr  i  gyd  yw  dydd  pasg  ...  d 

Tros  bleidiav  /  n  /  eneidiav  ni  .  /  Sion  kain) 

292  Mar:  Mr.  Thomas  JPivl  o  Lann  Deccioyn  .  l6l§  . 

Ar  ol  gwr  duwiol.i  daw    ....  e 

i  rai  i  lys  yr  hael  -fessu  Gr:  Phillipes 

297  f  Hugh  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rob:  i  ddiolch  am  ffon  badal  dros 

Rob:  v'n:  Y  difalch  burwalch  pybyrwaitli  cowraint    .    .    .     f 
drwy  ddawn  am  dy  rodd  a  -wnaf.  Humffrey  Howell 

399   A  few  extracts  from  Gutto'r  Glyn,  1).  ap  Gl'm,  L.  Mon  and  Ed;  Price,      g 
301   Wm:  Brewe3  ap  Sir  Wm:  Brewys  marchog  ag  vh  or  meibiou  ieuaf  &c.       h 

305   A  list  of  the  Sheriffs  of  Merioneth  beginning  :  i 

(1)  Ellis  Morris,  (2)  jankin  ap  John,  (3)  John  Powys,  (4)  Eobt  Salbury 
Rug  .  .  (7)  Dr.  Ellis  ....  ends:  (Gl)  Peeroe  Salbury,  (62)  Jon  Gwyn 
gwyder,  .  .  .  (65)  Thomas  Vaugban. 

316  fy  mhedwar  prifgas  erioed  ....  pas  a  henaint  a  hoed.  k 
fy  newis  beth  er  yn  was  merch  i  estrou  a  march  glas 

"a  beddiw  nid  ynt  gj-faddas  .  Ymy  by  cyd  boen  haelion     ,  .     . 

Llawer  o  blant  teg  llawen  a  heno  i  ddwy  fyhynan.  Ll'ch  hen. 

b.  Mi  a  welais  ddydd  ir  march  .  .  ,  penoedddanWen  ap  Llywarch.  S.  A.  I 

c.  Brawd  i  fair  yy  Duw  da_  awr  i  ganed  &c.  Morudd  esgop.  m 

317  Lines  omitted  from  pages  103  and  104.  n 

318  Pa  fwyd  a  roddwyd  i  rai  pa  aufodd  &c.  John  Tudur.  o 

b.  Un  duw  iawn  dad  ion  da  in  dydd  &c.  7f.  Cain,  p 

c.  Lines  omitted  from  page  89  above.  q 
319       Mawr  fv  howel  a  Meirig  .  .  fychan  o  nanav     .     .     .     .     r 

aed  i  farw  i.dai  feirig  (in  hand  B,  see  MS.  99)      Gvtto  jrj  glyn 

323       Mawr  yw  symvd  o  hvd  hydyr     ....  s 

yn  Sycharth  Buarth  y  beirdd  Jolo  Goch 

325  J  Tomas  ap  Mred:  ap  Howel 

Holl  Gymry  syu  tyny  tid     .     .     .     .  t 

da  ir  aroecb  fod  avr  ar  bwn  .  /  Tudr  Aled 

327  /  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Aron 

Dur  yw  Rhys  i  dorri  rron     ....  ti 

nag  or  llys  nod  Rhys  ai  rhydd  R.  Pennardd 


MS.  98^  =  Hen.  167.  Poetry;  7f  x  5|  inches;  86  pages;  im- 
perfect— two  folios  are  missing  between  pp.  10  and  11,  14  folios 
between  pp.  14  and  15,  one  folio  between  pp.  16  and  17,  one  folio 
between  pp.  18  and  19  ;  circa  1620-30;  bound  with  Hengwrt  MS.  479 
in  white  vellum. 

1       II  Teyrnget  pan  godet  gwen     ....  v 

J  gorft'eno  gaii  'r  ffynon  \^Tydur  Aled]^ 

*  "Y  cywydd  yohod  oedd  wcdi  i  ysscrifvenv  a  Haw  yr  athro  Siou  Dd:  Kys  o 
Aberhodni." 


610  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   98\ 

4       Dis  yw'r  byd  os  arbedwn     .     .     ,     ,  a 

ar  ddim  oil  ond  ar  ddvw  mawr  Sion  tiidr 

1  Mol;  Syr  Roger  salbri :  Aer  llyweni  iarll  wyneb  ...  b 

ach  gwriae  chwi  ich  gwanhav  ych  hvn  (1.  68) ||    Tvdr  Alet 

11  Mol:  Rob:  salbri:  dyn  a  gwaiw  yn  dan  igyd     .     ,     ,    .         c 
Robert  na  bom  awr  hebod  „        „ 

15  J  ofyn  celiog  bronfraiih 

vn  dvw  ai  gad  ni  ad  gam     ....  d 

croewiaith  bronfraith  barwnfraint  (1.44)11    Gr:  Hiraethawg 

17  ff  gath  am  ladd  y  celiog  bronfraith 

Bvm  herod  bo'  ym  hiraeth     .     .     .     ,  g 

■wyllt  ysgafn  williades  gath  (i.  42)  ||  „  „ 

19       I  |oachim  myn  grym  y  grog  (?  1. 6       .     .     .     .  / 

in  eneidiav  'n  enwedig.  ■       — 

21  Mol:  H.  np  J.  llwyd ;  Hvw  o  geri  hvg  evraid     ...  g 

a  fynno  hvw  o  fewn  hon.  Sion  keri 

24       T  fedwen  las  anfadwallt     ....  h 

ai  crinaw  draw  yn  j  dref  Gr:  ap  adda  ap  dd: 

27  Jerchi  myhareii  gan  gadwaladr  ap  Rob:  tros  sian  mostyn 

Yr  vstvs  oil  o  ras  dvw  sydd     ....  i 

i  Iwdn  fal  y  d^n  fydd  Gr:  Hiraethawg 

31  Jr  Cybydd :  Gwrda  gwych  Ilewych  Uawhir     ....  k 

tal  glin  gruffydd  gethin  goeth  tudr  penllyn 

35  Mar:  Rys  Nantmor  "  bardd  syr  Rys  ap  thomas  " 

O  Jesv  byth  eisiav  bardd     ....  / 

nenbren  pob  awen  pe  byw  Lewis  mon 

38  Mar:  syr  Oivain  ap  gwilym 

Trwm  ar  ia  yw  tramwy  'r  od     .     .     .     .  m 

y  trig  addysc  tragwyddawl  Wiliam  llyn 

42  Mar:  Mred:  ap  grono  ap  gr:  "  ai  i  gor  .  .  ILansanan," 

Mae  wylaw  hyd  y  ma«lawr     ....  n 

degan  avr  ai  dvg  i  nef  ,, 

47  Mar:  Syr  Thomas  salbri  marchog  vrddol 

Grwae  hollgred  trymed  tomwedd,  am  erchwyn     ...         o 
am  nas  enillym  grym  syn  hell  gred  Tvdr  Alet 

54  Mol:  Dr.  Richard  davis  escop  menew  .  151^  . 

Ceidwad  dehevwlad  hylwydd  esgobwalch     ....  p 

pennaeth  dysc  odiafith  dewis  geidwad     Syr  Robt:  Mydlton 

58  f  Syr  T.  Salbri :  Pwy  blaenawr  pobl  y  wenol     ,     .     .     .      q 
chwi  piau  'r  avr  a  chopr  ynt  Tvdr  Alet 

62  Mol:  Dd:  Oivain  episeop  llanelwy  (1503-12). 

Arwyddion  Sason  ai  sel     .     .     .     ,  r 

pawb  a  ddyfod  pab  ddafvdd  „        „ 

68   Owdl  i  Robert  salbri  o  lanrivst 

ni  bydd  yn  y  dydd  tra  fo  dwr  na  thes     ....  s 

ni  a  wn  na  bv  ag  na  bydd  „         „ 

75  J  Ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Rys :  Pie  rent  rvfFydd  ap  Rys    ...  t 

hwy  del  ywch  hoedl  a  iechyd  „         „ 

79   C.  y  ccsic  :  Pa  dir  yr  impiwyd  aeron     ....  !< 

hwnt  0  bower  hwynt  biav 


A  COPY  OF  THE  BJ^ACK  BOOK  OF  CARM  ;       611 

83  /  arg:  Dudley :  ^arll  Edward  evrlliw  adain    ....  a 

o  dai  mawr  nid  y  myran      C'.  70)  Tvdr  Alet 

The  aboTe  cywydd  is  apparently  unflnishetl,  and  the  two  following 
englynion  are  in  a  different  hand. 

86       Am  dewis  alis  ole  oi  herwydd    ....  b 

Maer  loes  oer  marvv  alis  wen  Morys  bctch 


MS.  98^  =  Hen.  479,  Akcient  Poetry  being  a  modernized 
copy  of  the  greater  part  of  the  Black  Book  of  Carmarthen,  Eiry 
Mynydd  &c.  Paper  ;  8  X  6  inches  ;  86  pages — injured  by  damp  and 
mice  (pages  1-26  are  more  or  less  imperfect  and  interleaved)  ;  bound 
in  white  vellum. 

This  MS.  is  in  the  autograph  of  Dr.  John  Davies  of  Mallwyd,  and  is  of  great 
interest  as  an  example  of  his  methods  and  accuracy  as  a  copyist.  A  comparison  of 
certain  portions  with  the  original  shows  that  Yiv.  Davies  was  generally  accurate,  but 
in  the  difficult  and  obscure  passages  he  both  blunders  and  amends  (without  notifi- 
cation) in  such  a  way  as  to  make  one  still  regret  the  disappearance  of  certain 
MSS.,  the  texts  of  which  survive  only  in  transcripts  made  either  by  himself  or  under 
his  supervision. 

1  Breuddwyd  a  welwn  neithw[yr]  &c.  SeePeu.  MS.  I,  p.  7    c 

2  [Mor  truan  genhyf  mor]  truan  &c.  „  p.  1  (Z 

3  Dev«  rheen  /  rymawr  ei  awen  &c.  »  p.  9    e 

4  Graid  blaidd  blyngawd  /  greddf  &c.  „  p.  lo  f 
h.  Gwaith  rhaith  rhysedd  /  gwych  &c.  „  p.  13  g 

5  Herwydd  vrdden  /  awddl  kyrridwen  &c.  „  p.  15  A 
b.  Cyfaenad  celfydd  /  cynelw  o  ddofydd  &c.  „  p.  18   j 

7  Eneid  cyd  ym  gwneid  /  yn  angen  Ac.  „         p.  23  k 

8  [Nac  ymadneirun]  /  neu  rymwaredwn  „  p.  24   I 

9  Tri  anrheithfarch  ynys  Brydain  &c.  „  p.  27  m 

6.      Moli  duw  yn  uechreu  a  diwedd  &c.    Hoc  canticum  habctur  in  alio  n 

libra  Bfol.  213.     Et  exemplar  per  Llyfr  du  [p.  29]. 

10  [Gogonedauc]  arglwydd  hanpych  gwell  &c.  See  Pen.  MS  I  p.  35    o 
b.     Arddwyreaf  fi  dri  /  trined  yn  Celi  &c.  „  p.  36  « 

11  II  *  a  diwad  pechawd  wyd  weddi  „  p.  43  q 
yspryd  glan  a  gleindid  ynddi 

Hi/d  hyn  allan  or  Uyfr  dv,  0  gaerfyrddin  Sfc.   *  »  «  -» 

13  Addwyn  gaer  y  sydd  ar  Ian  lliaint  &c.  „  p.  46   j- 

14  [Gwin  y  bid]  hi  y  fedwen  yn  nyffryn  gwy  &e.  >,  p.  47    * 

b.     Afallen  beren  ber  ei  changau  &c.  „  p.  48  t 

18       Bellach  y  canlyn  yr  Oianau,  ac  edrych  am  y  rhai  hynny  « 

1/71  y  llyfr  arall  Affol.  34. 

18     T  beddau  ai  gwlych  y  glaw     ....  v 

bedd  Beli  ap  Enlli  gawr  Cais  ychwaneg  p.  48 

26  Can  trengis  fy  ngwisg  am  hoen  &c.  See"Pe"n7MS.  l7p.  70  w 
b.     Hob  gofEau  duw  dawn  dyffryd  /  gwirion  &c.  „  p,  70  x 

27  Yna  y  canlyn  yn  y  llyfr  du  f el  hyn  j  Geraiat  61.     Erbin. 

Ban  aned  Gerain  &c.     Cais  yn  y  llyfr  B.fol.  186.  y 

'  The  text  of  pp.  37  1.  9  to  43  1.  7  in  the  Black  Booh  of  Carm:  is  missing  here. 
t  See  Brit.  Museum  Addl,  MS.  14869. 


p.  81 

c 

85 

d 

87 

e 

89 

f 

94 

9 

97 

h 

„ 

i 

100 

It 

101 

I 

612  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   98?. 

28     [Dujv^'  in  gymorth  in  nertli  in  porth     .     .     .     • 

rhad  ac  anaw  /  a  £faw  a  phlant  See  Pen.  MS.  l,pp.  73-7 

29     Yna  y  canlyn  Asswynaf  nawdd  daw  diaraav  &c.  a  hwiinw  a 
geffir  ijn  y  llyfr  A.fol.  210. 

30  du  dy  fareh  du  dy  gappan  &c.  „ 

33  Gwledig  arbennig  erbyn  attad  &c.  „ 

34  Bendith  y  wenwas  ir  deg  deyrnaa  &c.  ,, 

35  ILym  awel,  Uwm  bryn  &c.  „ 

39  Pa  wr  yw  y  porthawr  &o.  „ 
41     Canys  coegawg  ysydd  mor  eurawg  &c.                 » 

h.     Tai'w  trin  anwydin  blawdd  &c.  „ 

43  Cyd  carwyfi  morfa  cassaafi  for  &c.  „ 

44  Marchawg  a  gyrch  y  dinas  &c.  „ 

45  Yna  y  canlyn  yn  y  llyfr  dufel  hyii :  Marwnad  madawg  ab  Maredudd  .       wi 

Kynddehv.     Cais  yn  y  llyfr  Aifol.  21 16. 
Godwrf  a  glywaf  ar  glawr  maelenydd  &c. 

b.   Yna  y  canlyn  yn  y  llyfr  dufel  hyn :  Marwnad  Madawg   mab  Maredudd.   n 
Cyfarchaf  im  rhi  rhad  wobaith  &c.  Cais  yn  y  llyfr  A\fol,  656. 

40  Seithenhin  saf  di  allan  ac  edrychwyr  &c.  „        p.  106   o 

47     Teg  yd  gan  yr  adaren  &c.  „  107  ^3 

Hyd  hyn  allan  or  llyfr  du  o  Gaerfyrddin  yn  yr  hwn  y   mas 
54  0  ddalennau  memrvm  o  faint  y  dalennau  ynia 

49  Angwhaneff  o  Englynion  r  BEDDAUolaw  W.  Salsbri  medd 
Bossier  Morys.     See  Pen.  MS.  99,  &  of.  Myv:  vol.  i,  p.  77  =  65 
Y  bedd  yn  y  gorfynydd  /  a  lywiasai  liosydd     ....         q 
y  mae  bedd  Rhun  ap  Alun  dyve 

51  Darn  o  gywydd  pen  y  baedd,  a  gadar  dafodleferydd  gan  Win:  Thomas 
0  Bant  y  llongdy  o  [waith  Jol-lo  Goch.  Oud  tebyccaf  gennyfi  inai  darn  ydyw 
0  gywydd  y  Gtcasanaeth  bwrdd  o  waith  Jeiiati  ap  Rhydd:  ap  f.  llwyd 

Pen  baedd  coed  /  hoed  /  hydr  arlwy  yn  gynta  oil  a  gant  hwy  r 

A  garlawnt  o'r  eiddew  gorlas  mwstart  glew  iawn  a  brawn  bras 
Jssier  a  sewer  ys  ydd  a'r  torriawdr  yw'r  trydydd 

b.    Eiry  myuydd  calcd  grawn  s 

dail  ar  gychwyn  llynwyn  llawn     .... 
ni  thyrr  dvw  ar  a  wnaeth  TLywarch  hen 

y  mac  y  rliain  yn  y  llyfr  D.fol.  53  a  pheth  amrafael  rhyngthynt 

55  Eiry  mynydd  hydd  ar  £fo     .     .     .     ,  t 
lie  ni  bo  dysg  ni  bydd  dawn                                            Anon 

56  Eiry  mynydd  gwynn  tir  pant  ■     ■     .     . 
gwan  a  gwyn  ni  chwyn  diobaith      Mapglaf  ap  lly'cli  hen 
a  wnel  duw  nid  a  yn  adwaith  neAneimn  Givatvdrudd 

60     Eiry  mynydd  blin  yw  'r  byd     .... 

heb  rafE  na  hwyl  nac  angor  Mapglaf  ap  llytvarch 

yw'r  ieuangc  ni'  whel'  gyngor  hen,  "  meddant  hwy  " 

64  Y  mae  etto  Englynion  yr  eiry,  a  wnaed  rhwng  ll'n  a  Giornerth;  ar 
rhai  hyiiny  a  gair  yn  y  llyfr  B.  fol.  168,  /  Ac  eraill  a  gafas  Tyssiliaw  Brochfael 
ysgithroy  y  gan  wrnerth ;  y  rhai  a  elwir  ymaitreg  ll'n  a  Gwrnerth  .  Cais  y  rhai 
hynny  yn  y  llyfr  B.fol.  170. 

b.     Christ  fesu  Celi  i  ti  y  coeliaf    ....  lo 

onid  mi  Taliesin  nid  oes  gyfarwydd  Taliesin 

65   Cynghorion  T. — Na  fid  esgud  dy  law  ar  Iw  anudon  ...       x 
na  chred  ond  i  ddiiw  ai  ddisgyblon  „ 


u 


V 


POETRY   BY  TALIESIN,   ETC.  613 

66  Biisll  y  beirdd :  Cler  o  gam  arfer  a'  marfcrant  ...       a 

am  -watwar  fcssu  ai  wasanaeth  TuUesin. 

Yna  y  canlyn,  d  Ihjthyren  faivr  yn  ei  ddechreu,  fel  lujn  : — 
Tewch  chwi  bosfeirdd  ffeilstion  anhylv/ydd  desimt 

ni  wyddoch  chwi  rannu  vhwDg  gwir  a  chehvyJd         reliqita 

69     *0  mightie  ladie  our  leading  to  liauol   J.  ap  Eh.  ap  J.  lloyd      h 
^  can  no  race  /  to  queene  of  might     .  J   ne  ^.  ap  Ho:  Swrdwal. 

72  Lhjma  'T  Enghjnion  a  fa  rliwny  Trystan  ap  Tallwch  u  Gwalchmai 
ap  Gwyar,  wedi  bod  Arthur  yn  ei  geisio  dair  blynedd ;  a  phan  y  (jiccles  ef  a 
fwricdd  S$  0  wyr  Arthur ;  A  Gwalchmai  a  geisiodd  ganddo  ddyfod  at  Arthur ; 
ac  nis  doe  er  neb,  ond  cr  Gwalchmai  aw  dafod ;  ac  erddo  efy  daeth. 

f  Abrwysgl  fydd  tonn  anfeidrol     ....  c 

ac  a  fynnych  mi  ai  gwnaf 

75     JRhyfedd  na  phwyllwn  /  rhyfig  na  ddaliwn     ....  d 

yna  y  dielir  /  pob  enwiredd  Dd:  ddu  o  Hiraddug 

78  §Benedicte  dorany  I  dvwj  nerth  ^essii  fab  Alphaf  ...  e 

pen  teyrn  y  teyrnedd  /  dy  drugaredd  a  archaf      Taliesin 

79  1[  A  Gli/waist  ti :  ||  yn  ysgar  ai  ysgaraut  / 

enwii'  difenwir  ei  blant     .     .     . 
rhaid  wrth  amhwyll  pwyll  parawd  1] 

81  /)•  Grog:  Mae'n  rhwymedig  lawn  bob  Christion  ffyddlawn  .  .  g 

ar  ysbryd  gkn  rhad  /  rliod  odidog 

6,  **Yma  y  canlyu  yr  Englynion  a  ganwyd  pan  fu  CaJ  goddcu,  yr 
hon  a  eilw  eraill  cad  Achrcn  .  A'r  gad  lionno  a  fu  o  achos  iwrcli 
gwyn  a  clienaii  milgi,  a  hanoeddynt  o  Annwn  /  ac  Amathaon  ap  Don 
ai  daliodd  .  Ac  am  hynny  yr  ymladdodd  Arawa  bienin  A iinwn  ac 
Amathaon  ap  Don  .  A  gwr  oedd  yn  y  gad,  oni  wypid  ei  benw  ni 
orfyddid  arno  .  A  gwraig  oedd  or  tu  arall,  a  elwid  Achren  ;  no  oni 
wypid  ei  henw,  ni  orfyddid  arnynt .  A  Gwydion  ap  Don  a 
ddychymygodd  henw  y  gwr,  ac  a  ganodd 

Carngraff  fy  marcli  rhag  ottoyw  bann  blaea  gwern  ar  j'asoyw        h 

Bran  ith  elwir  brigcr  loyw  .  neufalhyn: 

Carngraff  dy  farcb  yn  nydd  cad 

bann  blaen  gwern  ar  dy  angad     Bran  lorgrig  ai  frig  arnad 

y  gorfu  Amathaon  mad  .  Gwydion  ap  Dun 

82  Mae  pryf  algas  /  is  caer  Satinas     ....    "  nan  vlira  ibi    i 
henwau'r  tair  ffynnon  /o  waelod  eigion     (.1.12)     habstur" 

84       Nid  oes  air  o  wir  hcb  foliant  ir  drindod     ....  k 

yngwydd  y  drindod  a  luciifer  Taliesin 


MS.  99  =  Hen.  307.  Poetex  by  various  authors  chiefly  of  xvlh 
and  xvith  centuries.  Paper;  8x6  inches;  638  pages;  bound  in  oak 
boards  covered  with  white  vellum. 

Writers. — The  MS.  is  written  by  four  different  hands:  a  =  pp.  3-49,  269-71, 
388-517,  519-29;  6  =  pii.  51-259,  331-87;  e  =  pp.  273-328;  d  =  pp.  535-618. 
a  is  in  the  autograph  of  l)r.  John  Davies  of  MalUvyd;  b  is  evidently  in  the  hand 
of  a  proi'essioDal  copyist,  possibly  a  clerk  of  Dr.  Davies  whose  hand  we  find  mixed 


*  See  MS.  96,  p.  149.  §  Ibid.  p.  100  =  79. 

t  See  Myvyrian,  vol.  i,  p.  173  =  132.  4  Cf.  ibid.  pp.  172-5  =  127-1;. 

X  Ibid.  p.  536  =  353.  *»  Cf.  ibid.  p.  167  =  127. 


614  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  99. 

with  6's  on  pages  53-4,  64-5,119,125-27,128,210-11,232-33,269-60,  262-64, 
—  the  original  was,  perhaps,  difficult  to  read  in  these  places,  as  Dr.  Davies's  hand 
sometimes  begins  in  the  middle  of  a  line;  c  also  seems  to  he  in  a  clerical  hand; 
and  d  is  in  the  autograph  of  Wiliam  Salisbury,  the  translator  of  the  New  Testament 
into  Welsh. 

Transcribers  and  Owners.— This  MS.  has  been  used  (as  attested  by  marginalia, 
variant  readings,  titles,  &c.)  by  Sir  Thomas  Wiliems  (p.  555) ;  Wm.  Maurice  of 
Llansilin  (pp.  10,  209,  250,  518,  534,  637,  &c.)  ;  Wm:  Wynne  (pp.  29,  233,  477, 
527,  &o.)  ;  and  Dd:  Ellis  (pp.  26,  49,  233,  &c.).  Among  those  who  claim  to  have 
owned  the  MS.  at  different  times  are  Hugh  Edwards  (pp.  33,  395)  ;  Hugh  Rowlands, 
1668  (p.  1)  ;  Dd:  Price  (p.  33)  ;  Evan  Vaughan,  1681  (p.  50)  ;  Arthur  Evans,  1691 
(p.  518)  ;  Madame  Katherine  Blayney,  1691  (p.  627)  ;  John  Jones,  1727  (p.  271)  • 
and  Gr:  Roberts  of  Dolgelly  (p.  7  and  447). 

1  Over  the  mountains  &  under  the  caves,  &c.  a 
Dros  y  mynyddoedd  a  than  yr  ogfidd,  &c. 

2  Raid  ym  yn  ddirym  o  bvm  ddyrys     ....  J 
Tmedde  y  Teidie  ar  tad 

3  Evvybr  yw  clod  ac  awon  &c.  c 

b.  Priodas  S.  Tanatamercli  S.  Pry  so  Eglwyscg  .  -1 551, 

Dyma  Ijs  a  gwys  heb  gav  /a  barnwyr     ....  d 

y  mae'  Iw  i  hwn  yn  amlhav ,  / 

5       ||Klywcli  s6n  megis  cloch  sais     ....  e 

annysg  oedd  ym  nas  gwyddwn  Si/j-  Lewis  Meudwy 

7  Atteh  :  Syr  Lewys  felys  ei  fwyd     ....  f 

di  fwyd  yw  dy  d$^  feudwy  Syr  Phylip  Emlyn 

10       Kwyn  fytli  am  y  eanv*  fydd  g 

Troes  ynghwyn  tros  syngbenydd     .... 

yn  oes  deikyn  nas  dyccai  Long  T^ewys 

1.3     fif  Radur  ail  Arthur  lys  .  .  .  plas  Syr  Wm:     ....       h 

am  ei  gan  mwy  o  gynnen  Long  Lewys 

16  Atteb  :  JBevno  oediog  ban  ydoedd     ....  i 

Hew  fddew  dv  lladdo  diawl  Syr  Gr;  Vychan 

19       Pwy  oil  a  ddvg  pell  a  ddel     ....  k 

bytb  oi  bannedd  bytbefnos  Syr  Gr:  fychan 

21  ^K'J^  y  7iau'.j;  Madog  am  Mhadog  wrbyuaws  /  i  dy  .  .  .  I 

ca\Ys  profadwy  glas  caw.s  pryfedig  Deio  ap  Jcu:  dv 

21       Annisyml  fum  ryw  noswaitb     ....  rn 

yr  addaw  ...  a  dorres  fy  mvn  dirion     .... 
oni  tliyrr  vnwaitb  arall  Huw  cae  llwyd 

26       Y  grair  fercli  a  garaf  fl     .     .     .     .  w 

dy  gael  oedd  raid  ei  gelu  Bedo  Brwynllys 

29       ILvniais  oed  dduw  Ilvn  y  sir     ...     .  o 

i'm  i'w  garv  o'm  gorwedd  Jeic  Tew  hrydydd 

.32       0  fair,  hir  ym  a  fu'r  haf p 

ac  vn  oed  a'm  gwna  yn  iach  .  Bedo  Brwynllys 

34       Y  fun  weddw  fy  Nuw  oeddych     ....  q 

Y  tal  duw  i'r  tlawd  i  waith       21 3§     Leivys  Morgannwg 

37       Gwylied  yr  wyf  drwy  glo  draw     ....  r 

ys  gwypo  honno  fy  haint  Bedo  Brwynllys 


*  Thii5  Kywydd  should  follow  Fwy  oil  a  ddvg  pell  a  ddcl  (p.  19). 

f  Atteb:  "  J  arddel  ail  Jarddvr  lys    Y  daw  gwin  y  dog  ynys.     v«.  B.  209." 

I  •'  Vide  F.  210." 

§  This  refers  to  the  page  in  Pen.  MS.  101,  which  Contains  a  eopy  of  it. 


POETRY   COPIED   BY   DU.   DAVIES,   ETC. 


615 


40 
42 
45 

47 

50 
51 


Prudd  w}'f  e'm  parai  y  ddyn     .     . 
a  gweniaitli  a  ladd  ganwr* 

Mae  crugiaii  dan  furiau  f'ais     .     . 
oni  chan  yu  iacb  vuwaith 

A  gae'i-  ferch  a  garaf  fi     .     ,     .     . 
rhyw  Iwyn  dan  yr  haul  nid  oes 

Burn  anwyl  lie  bum  vu-nos     ....  d 

mwy  y\\  pecbod  mab  bycban  .  269J     Ho.  D.  ap  J.  ap  R. 

(dan  groisi  yr  ud  crasu  yr  wi  yn  ara  &c.)  e 


Dedo  Brwynllys 
Dd:  ap  Edmwnd 


Rf/s  Coin 

Tudr  Penllyn 

jfeic  ap  Gronwy 

Jciuin  Deulwyn 

Risiart  Phylip 

Sion  Tvdvr 

Ow:  ap  ll'n  moel 


(J 


h 


Y  lien  doetli  ag  yn  llawn  dysg     ....  / 

achos  mawr  ni  cheisia  mwy         3f  _       -  . 

54       O  ddvw  y  rhawg  a  ddaw  rhys     . 
Dickwn  y  fall  ai  dycco     .... 
a  cbweru  Ebys  ni  char  hwn 

57       Y  dd^n  winfaeth  ddynion  fawr     . 
bad  fauwyl  newid  feinioes 

59       Y  ferch  i  raf  yw  liercbi     .     .     . 
iawn  oedd  yngofyn  iddi 

61       Mi  a  wn  d^  a  mann  deg     .     .     . 
tail  vn  y  ty  a  ninnav         7t 

65       fyngwinevfarch  fwng  nwyfvs     ....  / 

yn  kynnal  ar  lann  konwy 

68       A  wyddeut  hwy  pwy  om  pwynt 
a  tliri  gair  oi  thrvgaredd 

70       Y  dd}>n  sautaidd  a  anwyd     ....  n 

Yn  vn  dyn  an  gwnel  n\  jrij  dav      Gr:  ap  f.  ap  ll'n  Vn. 

Llyma  gyioyddav  a  fv  rhwng  Bedo  Havesb  ag 
Jeuan  Teu\     Also  pp.  146-60. 
73  &  146  §Ymrawd  ai  yma  /r/  ydych     ....  o 

kanyn  rhagod  yn  kwynaw  .  .  kam  dolli     .... 
otb  benn  moUt  ath  follt  ath  fas     10|     jfcu:  Tew  brydydd 

7G  &  1-J9   Cymod :  Heddychwyr  beddyw  vcbod     ....  p 

chwithav  ifan  .  .  .  danod  swydd  dyna  wawd  sal   .    .    . 
bedo  tyb  ydyw  /  ni  laf vr  dim  Iwfred  y w 
Kuddio  kerdd  rbag  haeddv  kas 
obry  yw  ddsv'yn  bar  y  ddav         12| 

79  <fe  153     Brad  oedd  mal  bwriad  iddew     ....  q 

Oi  fvrn  goel  ai  farn  gwla 
vn  kaled  wy  yn  kloi  da 
nid  gwr  a  f'ydd  nid  gwir  i  farn 
oud  a  yfo  yn  y  dafarn     .... 
a  fynna  i  hynn  yw  fwynhav         \b\  Bedo  Havesb 

82  &  155     Ond  ynfyd  koeg  ysbryd  kaeth     ....  r 

tynnv  i  ddant  om  t>i=n  oedd  well  17t  Jeuan  Tern 

85  &  158     Gwanu  i  rhoed  i  ganv  y  rhawg     ....  s 

a  cherdd  fal  na  chwardd  i  fam         Hij  Bedo  Hafesb 

*  Unjinished — followed  by  a  Hank  space. 

f  These  numbers  refer  to  pages  in  a  Cwrtmawr  MS.,  ^vllic^l  contaius  copies  of 
the  poems. 

X  This  number  refers  to  the  page  in  Pen.  MS.  101,  which  contains  a  copy  of  it. 
§  "  Vide  B.  73  hwn  a  pymheiried." 


Syr  Rob;  'Mt/Umn 


G16  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   99. 

89  AUeb  i  gtjwydd  y  heffyl  hwtla  gan  S.  Mowthwy. 

Tydi  j  V  j  bardd  wyd  awdvr  byd     ....  a 

a  gad  i  mi  gadw  y  march  Rich:  Philipp 

93  J  ferch :  Ergydiais  eiriav  gwiwdeg     .     .     ■     . '  h 

yna  tyr  enaid  hiraeth  Gr:  Vauglmn 

97  J  Dvdvr  Penllyn-—"  dwynfy  nyn  a  wnacth" 

Eleu  a  oedd  favr  genyf    ....  c 

a  dvw  ai  maddevo  ir  dyn         22|  feu:  Brydydd  hir 

100  Atteb  :  Gwae  wrth  ymddiddan  a  gvvea     ....  d 

or  dref  ai  wregys  ar  dro         24'|"  Tvdvr  Penllyu 

103  f  Lywelyn  ap  Gvtlvn 

Dafydd  o  ymyl  dyfl     ....  e 

fwtieth  am  i  ddefeitia  Gwevryl  mechain 

107  C.  yn  dywedyd  fynd  or  blaidd  a  xetXKe  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

fy  uhad  oedd  yajjiad  gvchlav  tyllvan     ....  / 

iiis  gall  am  uad  oes  yetWiav     2Q\         feu:  ap  T.  Penllyn 

109  Etto :  Och  wyr  a  glywsoch  werin  y  damwaiii     ....        g 
na  tborr  ffordd  y  gwnaeth  eirin         27|  Gutto'r  glyn 

108  Gair  da  a  gair  gwyrda  gynt     .     .     .    '.  h 
[eu]   hepil  hwyntav/   yn  i  mysg  i  gwn  fy  mod     .     .     . 

O.  t'ychaii  .  .  D.  llwyd  ,  .  ^.  llwyd  aj)  O.  fychau  .... 

Mred:  /  ap  Bys  .  .  .  iii  ddoi  fyth  i  dda  efo 

oi  kynefin  iw  kyiieifio     .... 

Morys  .  .  ap  Ho:  fwa  Powys  .  .  Ho:  amhailog  .    .    . 

Dyniou  yw  rbain  da  ya  ibaid 

difai  end  i  roi  defaid     .... 

Addaw  am  gvvnaetb  yn  ddiddim 

or  pvm  plwyf'  y  ddwy  heb  ddim     .... 

bardwn  ir  rhain  bvrdan  rhydd  Syr  Bhys  lutrno 

112  Atteb:  Mae  gwr  lien  yma  gar  Haw  vrdol     ....  i 

Defeitia  bawb  yma  y  bv 
ag  wyira  a  goganv     .... 
ni  glvst  fybaren  y  glocli  Dd:  llioyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr: 

114       Blin  yw  hyder  o  weryd     ....  k 

bvn  fwyn  a  wncl  bevno  /  n  /  fy  w  Dd:  Nanmor 

117       fal  yr  oeddwu  gwyddwn  gvr     ....  I 

kefn  gweilgi  kafnav  gwaelgoed  fihel  ddv 

119  Alieb  feu:  Dyfi  am  gywydd  Antii  Goch 

Gwae  r  vndyn  heb  gywrindeb     ....  m 

dvw  a  fyddo  dy  feddig  Gweryl  Mechain 

123   Y  Special :  Myfyrio  bvm  i  fwrw  y  byd     ....  n 

ir  gotel  lie  mae  r  gvto  .  IVn  aj?  Gvlyn 

120  Oivdl  gtoyr  Caer  i  Reinallt  Gr:  ap  Bleddyn 

Wyr  Einion  ai  ffofi  ffinied  y  Saeson     ....  o 

ef  a  delw  i'yw  dialed  Tudur  Penllyn 

129  V  gtcallt:  Doo  gwclwnn  carwn  be  cftid     ....  p 

da  trig  avr  ar  befrfrig  bvn  .  /  faian  ap  Rhydderch 

130  Hawdd  fyd  ir  ddybvddai  fav     ....  q 
hi  ni  fynn  hynn  a  fyiiwn                             Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 

133  frffiol  oddfyn  or  dolcgtvyn 

Hawddamor  hoff  oror  ffawd     ....  r 

a  chynydd  yw  fierchenawg  Richard  Philipp 


THE  POEMS   OF   OUTTO'r  GXYNN.  617 

137  Y  dyn  a  tliyfiad  Anna     ....  a 
mac  yn  rliad  nm  danad  wen                            ffan  Dcvhuyn 

138  fyngwinevfarcli  fwng  nwyfvs     ....  b 
yn  kynnal  ar  lanu  Iconwy                                     Sion  Tvdvr 

142       Y  ferch  a  gevais  i  yn  faith     ....  c 

teg  oedd  poed  tacog  iddi  Bedo  Brwunllijs 

144       Y  ddyu  sanotaidd  a  anwyd     ....  d 

yn  vn  dyn  an  gwnel  m  jn/  dav     Gr:  cip  J.  ap  FJn  V'n 

14G— 160    These  pages  are  repetitious  of  pages  73-89  above. 

CrwYDDEV  AC  Odleu  Gutto'r  Glynn 

161  ^  Syr  John  Burgh :  Ni  chair  vstvs  na  christiawn    ....       e 
dyro  i  sion  deiroes  hydd  Gvito'r  Glyn 

163  */  Mathew  goch :  Pan  sonier  in  amser  ni     .     .     .     .  / 

a  gair  lloegr  y  gwr  lliwgoch 

1 66  31ar:  Eingion  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  o  Lechwedd  ystrad  yn 
Man  gyii>air  ymhenllyn 
Dwfr  nlwen  doc  fv  /r/  wylaw     ....  g 

fv  einion  nef  y\v  enaid 

169  Mol:  Dd:  Kyffin:  Y  llwyn  gwydr  yn  llau  gedwyn    ...     A 
dvw  a  wuel  fab  dv  yn  wyn 

172  J  Syr  iimlr  "  eilfah  "  Syr  Wiliam  Rhaglan 

Tyfodd  gwr  at  dafydd  gam     .     .     .     ,,  i 

■fevro  aelod  wrolach         (i.  24) 

jKhydd  yw  roi  liawddamawr     (1. 25)     .     .     .     . 

y  tri  n  vn  ymlaen  tren  wyd 

176  f  ofyn  kimi  dros  Seffrai  kyffin  J  Robt.  ap  Jtuan  vycliaii 

IJobert  vwch  rhiwiav  abcr     ....  It 

m  bwyf  vn  svl  heb  fenswn 

179  f  syr  Rosier  hinastr  or  Itinvkin 

Awst  i  lias  yiigliastell  i     .     .     .     .  / 

a  mprch  iavll  ymreicliieu  hwn 

182  ^  Gutor  Oli/n  :  Drogan  a  fjdd  a  ganwyf     ....  i» 

Guto  gwenieithio  a  wna  /  o  cliwaut  kael  ariant  Idcra     .     .     . 
gwrdd  fydd  ag  avr  iddo  fo  Ho:  ap  Dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rtjs 

187  Attcb :  Kwch  yn  iacli  ni  clrAenycbaf     ....  h 

Gi'oeso  lie  ni  cbaffo  chwaifli 

188  J  syr  bened person  Corwen,  ac  am  y  degwm 

Devbetl)  a  red  drwyV  gwledydd     ....  o 

Diclw  fyddaf  pan  dalwyf 

diriaid  borthmon  defaid  wyf     .... 

Gau  dvdvr  ,   .  .  penllyn  yn  yraofyn  myllt  .... 

o  dda  /  n/  y  mars  ni  ddown  mwy  . 

192  Atteb :  SvWca  ath  geidw  syr  bened     .     .     .     ^  amkau     ...  p 

liaei  degwm  y  kwm  er  kcrdd     .... 
ymgellw.air  am  i  golled  .  .  Ban  na  thai  .  .  arianbeth  am  yr  wyn  byir  .  . 
Nedwch  iddo  ych  hvdo  chwi  am  wlaa  degwm  y  leui  '/'.  Penltyii 

*  "Mae  hwu  yu  G,  204."=Addl.  MS.  14,97  I. 

f  Here  two  different  cywyddeu  have  been   written  as  one,  I.  25  being  1,  27  of  the 
cywydd  beginning  -.-^Dafjdd  hnjdydd  a  browJur, 

y  PS430.  X 


G18  PEJJIARTH  MA.N'U'SaUIPT   99. 

194  Af/eb  ir  atteb :  D'lwedd  lien  fvr  fargen  fav     .     .     .     ,  a 

(Ivg  lieiuiev  y  dav  kanoen     ....  Gijtto'r  Glynn 

nid  mawr  gaii  dvdvr  .   .  ar  gwallt  hir  y  goUed  liyn     .     .     . 
nag  wyu  i  gynfigeiiwr  . 

197  f  dd:  ap  mevrig  fychan  o  nanav  i  ofyii  March 

Bron  draw  biavr  enw  a  drig     ....  b 

ar  elen  ai  lieiiioles 

200  y  dd:  hyffin  deon  Bangor  :  Dalvvais  o  glwyf  a  dolvL'  ...         c 
pren  per  yr  linelder  ai  rhoes  . 

203  jfr  deon  hyffin  i  ofyn  sclatys  :  Rlioi  ty  yr  wy  fry  ar  y  fron  .  .    d 
niae  mendith  am  y  maendo 

206  Mol:  Ahad  ymwythig :  Mi  a  evthym  i  mwythig     ...        e 
tir  fFerm  gvto  ywr  fforicd* 

209  f  ofyn  lotgneiff  gan  Rvffydd  ap  Rys  o  Jul . 

"Yu  dritfeth  ith  wuaed  llvffydd     ....  _/ 

tri  ifwyth  dy  faslart   RvfTydd 

212    Y  Piers  :  Mawr  ywr  gair  am  y  teircdd    ....  g 

ir  gwr  hael  ai  wraig  ai  rhoes 

215  /  Dafydd  abad  "pant  y  groes  deg  "~.  Valle  Crucis 

Yr  eryr  Ihvyd  ar  wyr  lien     ....  k 

am  arfav  maen  ar  fy  medd 

218   J  syr  bcned  :  Prelad  ar  yn  gvvlad  o  glwyd  i  ddyfrdwy  ...         }' 
vn  dvw  alli  ato  i  lywior  vvlad 

221  MoliaiH  Dd:  abad  JL.  Egicestl=:  Vallc  Crucis  , 

Kiys  rydd  yim  y  sydd  ansoddav  llv  dalm     ....  h 

lie  i  rhocd  lies  drioed  llys  rliydd 

224  3Iar:  Rhys  abad  ysfradfflvr 

Dyn  wyf  doe  a  anafwyd     ....  / 

taled  duw  ni  bydd  tlawd  liwn 

228  Mol:  Wm:  fychan  or  Penrhyn 

Y  gwr  ai  dy  ar  y  garreg     ....  m 
pen  kcnedl  peunaig  gwynodd 

230       Pwy  yn  i  gwlad  penuaig  y  wlcdd     ....  n 

(ir  brenin  teirbi'o  wyncdd 

233  Mol:  Jeuan  ap  Einion  or  Cryniarth  ar  Hendwr 

Y  gwrda  0  gywirdeb     ....  0 
yw  tvedd  fiy  hyd  dydd  frawd 

236  Mar:  Gwerfvl  yj  Madog 

Mis  drwg  a  fv  ymhowys  draw     ....  p 

taler  i  haelder  i  Hon 

239  Mar:  llywelyn  "  llin  y  moel " 

Mae  areb  yn  ystrad  marcliell     .     ,     ,     «  q 

yr  "wyl  a  nef  yw  i  rodd 

242       Teimlwr  gwyr  (emyl  io;-  gwiw  rent/tomas  ....  r 

brenin  brwydr  gwin  brodyr  gwent 

245  Mar:  Mevrig  fychan  (o  Nannau)  buried  at  Cymer  Abbey 

Mawr  fvr  kri  am  y  trihael     ....  S 

ar  ddav  sydd  urddas  vddyu 


»  "  Abbie-roi'eliead  ia  Sa'.op  wrth  boat  y  Saison."— Wm.  Maurice. 


POEMS  BY  GUTTO'e,   GLYNN  AND   OTHERS.  619 

248  J  S.  Pilstwn  :  Mi  a  ir  wlad  lie  mae  /  r  /  wledd     ....      a 
gwisg  henavr  gossawg  gwjiiedd 

250       T.Tir  blynodd  rliyfedd  tv  /  v  I  rhaiu     ....  d 

brad  dewythr  Herbavt  ievank 

254  /  Siejfrai  hjffin :  Tyfodd  vn  o  blaiit  difotli     ....  c 

ni  bo  /  r  /  givr  lieb  avr  ag  yd 

257  Mar:  Howel  brild  Owaiii 

Caewyd  dcvrvdd  katevwena     ....  d 

llawenydd  oil  yw  euaid  Gutto'r  Glyit 


259  Mar:  W.  Malhav  :  ILwyth  Matliau  tyravi  tiroedd  /  a  chaerau  .  .    e 
aent  i  gadau  ond  dy  geidwad     (1.  82)     left  unfinished 

261  (dowch  yn  e3  bob  oymro  olir  dreio  yr  swud  rwi  sowndio    ....  / 

ar  gan  al  gyru  yn  hwur  yn  Uwur  or  llau  a  thyngi  awnan  nhw  t;r  .  1693) 

262  Mai  avwain  dwyrain  wrth  dariaii  ruddaur     ....  g 
Emwnt  deilwng  mewn  talaitli     .... 

Malpbawiit  wyr  y  malpbawiit  mawr     .... 

a  gei  itli  aros  ac  ith  arwain  Gwili/m  Teic 

265  {Mar:  Tho:  Penlhjn  :  Priidd  yw  fais  parai  ddvw  fod    .     .     h 
iw  fwrdd  rhad  fardd  rhiwedawg     .1623.       Ric:  phylij}*) 

269  J  Jexian  Gicynn  ap  Gwiliin  fwyaf  o  fro  Wyr 

■fHir  yr  wyf  bwyr  arofyn     ....  i 

Ihvyddiant  yn  wellwell  iddun .  ILaicdden 

2'13  J  Gesuil  gyfarch  :'^laa  vn  adail  mann  ydiw     ....  h 

avr  faner  gwyr  yfionydd  .  /  Jnyho  hrydydd 

276  Mar:  Mrcdvdd  ap  Jeuan  ap  Robert  o  Wedir     \_I525'] 

Wyth  anap  aeth  i  wynedd     ....  I 

i  dalv  /  i  /  chwi  diolcbwnii  Gr:  Hiraethoc 

J  Sion  Wynn  o  Wedir 
282       Pavn  pvr  hael  pwy  ii  peri  bedd     ....  m 

maith  dinioes  mae  ith  wyneb  ,,  „ 

586       Oes  gwledd  dwy  wynedd  dydd  dacd     ....  u 

siou  wynn  kauoes  nan  konwy      210{  Lewis  Moryuiucc 

289       Tri  flas  hael  mown  tri  fflwy  sydd     ....  o 

at  dy  wyneb  oed  henaint  Matliew  Bromffild 

292       Pwy  biav  r  dyse  pawb  ar  del     ....  p 

prior  wyd  ifor  dafvdd  .  .  fcdd  kelart     .... 
march  gwinav  .  .  dan  sion  wynn  downsio  a  wna    .    ,    . 
yr  a  fmav  i  roi  fenaid  Lewis  Daron 

Manonadeu  Sion  Wynn  o  Wedir  .  155Q. 
295       Crcclilaw  fur  kvio  awchlym     .     .     „     .  q 

icssu  i  nef  a  sion  wynn  Simtont  Vychan 

299       Ehanwyd  wely  r  ben  dalaith     ....  r 

dydd  y  farn  dy  ddeav  fo  .  /  Sion  Brwynoc 


*  ?  Aviograph  of  the  author. 

t  A  blank  folloivs  tbe  Cywydd  ending  on  p.  2G4  (pp.  ii65-C8  are  insertions  in  the 
MS.)  and  on  this  blank  space  a  later  hand  has  written  four  lines  beginning  :  Y  Um 
digoll  am  dygai,  &c.  It  is  not  clear  -whether  this  should  be  considered  the  first  line 
or  the  one  given  above. 

X  The  number  refers  to  the  page  of  MS.  101  below,  which  is  a  copy  of  this  MS. 

X  2 


620  I'ENIARTH   MANCSCRIPT   9'X 

301       Oes  i  bavvb  y  sy  bybyr     ....  « 

aetli  i  no  fytli  iawn  i  fod  Gr:  Hiraethoc 

A  fragment  of  a  Mar:  to  Mred:  ap  Jfan.     See  p.  276  above. 
309       Mae  vn  isod  am  uowsir     ....  l> 

ai-  Icider  yr  olew  ydvvyd     (1.  30) — left  unfinished. 

Moi:  Morvs  ictjnn  o  IVedir 
311        Gniffydd  gynt  gwir  hoffodd  gaii     ....  c 

fry  oes  hir  i  forvs  wynn  .  /  Simwnt  Vychan 

314       Y  llwyn  gwiuwydd  llin  gyuau     ....  ^  d 

pa  dras  fwy  pedeiriocs  focli  Wiliam  K,yii 

319       Pa  frodyr  pwy  hyfrydach     ....  e 

pv[n  marchoc  rhowioc  fo  v  rhain  Leiois  ap  Edward 

323       Mae  draw/r/gair  am  drowyr  gynt     ....  / 

■\vaed  grvfels  dec  orovfercli    (i.  102) — left  unfinished, 

328  (Gwell  bedd  i  orwedd  o  wrydd  a  garwn  ....  g 

gsvell  oes  ver  na  gwallus  fud.) 

329  Y   twr  kelyn  trick  galawnt  &c a  fragment     ?  Sion  Tudi/r  h 

CrwYDDEU  AC  ovLEU  Lewih  BIorganwg 

331       Y  grog  o  lann  gerygl  waed     ....  i 

omhynnwes  aed  am  lieueid         161*         Leioys  Morganwc 

334       Y  verch  v.yry  Vair  a  cliorouu     ....  h 

mair  wrthfawr  air  wrth  vy  raid  163* 

337  f  Syr  fV.   Morgan  :  Y  Hew  brounwyun  ^eirll  breniii  .     .     .  I 
eneid  o  nef  vn  dyn  -well.         ISS* 

340  jf  Hiew  david  lewis  o  dre'r  delyn 

Pwy  yw  oraer  y  pvmoes     ....  wi 

krist  a  fo  nertli  karw  styfu  wych         191* 

343  J  George  Herbert :  l''r  herbert  dewr  ar  barr  tan  ....  » 

ar  oes  hiibell  Siors  lierbart         194* 

3i6  jf  Edio:  Lewys :  Y  karw  doetli  ar  vaink  kaer  dyf  ....  o 

aros  vwy  r  oes  bwyaf  ywcli         197* 

348  jf  S.  gand :  Y'^  tarw  mawrgamp  trvm  aergaingk     .     .     .     .    p 
a  fl'oed  dyn  broffwyd  dcinioes  .         199* 

851   Mar:  Jenaii  ap  dd:  ap  Siancyn  o  Lnngewydd  . 

Pa  son  am  eiuion  mwy  o  wyncdd  gynt     ....  q 

na  fn  cr  Einion  nef  ir  enaid         202* 

3co  Mar:  S.  ap  Syr  Tito:  ap  Morgan — "  mae  ochi  ynghacr  llion." 
Mae  lliw  du  am  lioll  dvvywent     ....  »" 

y  nef  reed  nai  ^vor  hael         205* 

368  Mar:  watcyn  lochwr : 

Kwyn  am  wr  aetli  kwyn  mawr  oedd     ....  * 

dwc  wynn  llann  dudwc  vnwailh         207* 

SCO  J  Harri  § :  Twyssawc  koronawc  locrinys  siarlmaen    ,     .     .   ' 
roed  dwyoes  gwedy  yr  tvvysawc  cdwart         160* 

3G4  Jarll  hirri  somrscd  holl  went  ar  llyssoedd     ....  « 

ar  Hew  ry  dde\\rchwyrn  yvf  r  farll  ardderchoc         169* 

868  Etto  :  Y  iarll  o  went  ar  holl  wyr     ....  v 

bo  i  wr  ty  iarll  lierbart  hen         1/2* 

*  These  numbers  refer  to  pages  of  MS.  101  below,  whieh  is  a  copy  cf  this  MS. 


POEMS  BY  L,    MOKGANWO,   H.   DAVI   ETC.  621 

371  f  Syr  Tho:  Stradling  : 

Hawdd  vyd  hir  vywyd  tra  vych  trwy  olvd     ....         a 
yt  a  hir  iecliyd  tuvv  orychnf .         175* 

375  Mar:  Syr  Bis*  Herhart :  ILef  ai'uthr  oil  a  vwiiynt     .     .  h 

trindod  aed  atto  vndyn         178* 

378  Mar:  Tho:  amhorgan :  Mawr  o  gwyn  sy  morgannwc   ...         c 
pedair  torch  poed  avr  at  hynn         181* 

381   Mar:  JVm:  watcyn  :  Ynn  oes  gynt  hinios  a  gaid  ....  d 

wedy  William  yii  daliad         183* 

384  J  Wni:  Sion  :  Y  Hew  n  dwyn  avr  llvndain  oedd     ...         e 
a  fiwy  oth  vatli  na  fEyth  vydd         186* 


CrwYDDEV  AC  OuLEu  HowEL  alias  Huw  Davi. 

See  MS.  67,  pp.  29-322. 


519  ]Mar:  Leioys  ap  Owain  y  barivn  .  1355. 

Megis  pail  las  oergas  wedd     ....  f 

d'aros  di  yw  n  dawn  drosto'n  dal       329*      Hmo  Arieystl 

523  J  Sion  aer  Barion  Lewys  ap  owain 

Y  pren  o  wydd  purion  anr     ....  a 
tros  y  byd  teiroes  y  bych         334*                  Wiliam  W.yn 

52G  jf  ofyn  12  hasscg  i  12  o  wyr 

Y  wlad  fferf  o  led  a  phwysi     ....  h 
del  o  aur  pur  dalu'r  pwytli         337*                   „             „ 

530  JViliam  salbri  yn  danfon  annerch  at  Gr:  Hiraetlwg  ac  eraill 
oi  gelfyddyd  .     ILe  y  bwriedais  yn  fynych  o  amscr,  fyngbyd  ddarpar 

darbodus  a'm  oeredigion  eraill  o  gelfyddyd  cerdd  dafod ends : 

ac  na  ogenwch  neb  a  chwennych  vrddas  ich   celfyddyd,  a  byddwch 
fodlon  ar  hyn  o  redd  dros  yr  amaer.      TV,  Sal. 


"  Weilhian  y  viae'n  canlyn  talm  o  Gerdd  o  law  Wm:  Salbri  o  Lannsanau.'' 
[For  another  talm  see  Cwrtmawr  MSS.]     Wiliam  Manricc  o  Lansilin. 

535       Eiry  mynydd  gwyn  tir  pant     ....  i 

"]  Ddeo  ny  ellir  absenj  Mab  gkch  ap  JLywarch 

539       Eiry  mynydd  llwm  brie  on     ...     .  k 

Hwyr  hen  bawdd  ei  orddiwes§ 

547       Mis  ^onawr  myglyd  dyffryn     ....  / 

A  ddiva'r  plant  ar  wyrion,1[ 

549       ILiiniais  oed  is  mangoed  Mai     ....  m 

Mi  am  lloer  viiu  oi  llwyr  vodd  Daicid  ap  Gwilim 

552       Bii  addaw  oed  Ijoed  hudserch     ....  n 

Ac  0  daw  die  sa'.wrn  doed  „  „ 

*  These  numbers  refer  to  pages  of  MS.  101  below,  which  is  a  copy  of  this  MS. 
t  "  Mae   Mar;  ara\  i  Lewys   ap   Owen  yn  Ayfr  ara\  a  gefais  ym  mcnSyg  gann 
Mr  ^fan  Va9aii  o  Gas>teA.march."     Maurice  Williams  of  Llansilin. 
X  Cf.  Myvyrian,  \ol.  i,  p.  545-7  =  358-60. 
§   rti'd,  pp.  547-51^=360-2.     Order  very  different. 
"I  Ends  with  Mis  Medi — then  a  leaf  is  cut  out  of  the  MS. 


622  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   99. 

554  ILuoieis  Vynd  draw  yn  llawen     ....  a 
Ar  draws  rhedynos  a  drain*    (1.  Z2)—rest  wanting 

555  Truan  i  dylliian  dec     ....  b 
Oddaith  ympop  picu  eiddew.                   Dauid  up  Gwilim 

557   Yr  ymddiddan  rliwng  EUwlod  ac  ArlhurX 

Ys  ihy\iedd"'  cyd  bwyf  bardd     ....  c 

ai  gorddyfnaint  liyd  angee 

565       Peiygl  sy  arnaf  empirion  ^v  bar     ....  d 

Doui  y  gwrych  lyn  dingreichion  Tlieodor  Alet 

569       Y  kelynllwyn  kyfiownllwytli     ....  e 

Gyssylltedic  uch  brio  bron  .  Dauid  ap  Gtvilim 

571  Val  yr  oeddwn  ymanos     ....  / 
Peidio  a  doedyt  pwy  ydyw                              „                 „ 

572  Tebic  yw  Gwynedd  meddir     :     .     .     .  g 
Eur  vawl  ^or  aer  val  ef                                     Gruff:  Gryc 

57t)       Mawr  ywch  aic  y  marchocir     ....  h 

Y  gwr  luvn  bie'r  gai'r  liir  Dd:  vcip  Edmvnd 

578  Mai  gwr  ymwanwr  ymysc  Pop  gafall  Ac.  Aneirin  G.    i 
h.      Mao  'n  calyn  pop  dyn  beiideuic  Deo  &c.  Jolo  Goch  k 

J  Sioii  EutuH  i  ofyn  c.wrwgl 

579  Meddylio  ir  wyf  o  nwyfiant     ....  / 
Canaf  .  .  .  Naws  cwyn  os  y  rhotld  iiis  oaf    .... 

A  gwir  ddyclian  vydd  rhan  rliai        J.  v'n  up  J.  ap  Adda 

581  Attcb  :  Ystod  Lir  ystad  hoywrym     ....  m 

Dros  ^od  yn  ddibyscod  vyth       387*       Meredidd  ap  Rys 

584  Diareb  gynydd  hir  hynt     ....  n 
Hir  y  bydd  mud  ....  ym  horth  y  byddar  &c,  .... 
ends:  Neu  r  lleuad  or  gorllewin  || 

Two  folios  have  been  cut  out  here. 

585  A  fragment  (4  II.)  ending  :  o 

Pe  maii  swydd  pumoes  iddo.  lolo  Goch 

h.  J  Ow:  Glyndwr :  Eryr  digrif  afrifed     ....  p 

Ar  glod  ir  marchoc  or  Glyn  .     Gr:  TLoyd  ap  D.  ap  E'n 

589  Mar:   Gronio  ap  Tudyr :  Doeth  i'm  oof  eb  ei  ofyn  ...         q 
Deo  gwae  vi  ai  diic  efo       389  [  Gr :  ap  Giveflyn 

593  y  Vadoc  both  droscl:  Da  gweddem  ni  dau  i  ddwyu  cloch   .  .  r 

Caiil  dirwydd  draul  deurudd  drusgl  Conyn  Goch 

594  Hoffa  peth  pothan  tinllaes  &c.        Bleddyn  Du  iocs  y  cv>d  s 
b.       Gvvc  gwas  gwegil  glas  gogyl  glaw  &c.  Brat  y  Patti  t 

595  Attcb  i  "  Kamair  hu  cam  yw  rhywol  "  S[C.  gan  Dr.  J.  Kent 

Toraist  orn  teuraist  arnaf    ....  u 

Cent  aethosl  mewn  ceintiach§  Rys  Goch  or  Vri 

598       Eioecr  gron  yd  Aeron  llyna  daith   W.  .  .  northhyhcfn  .  .  v 
traul  vawr  tvvr  a  chawr  tir  uwch  Aeron  393|     D,  JS"mor 


»  There  is  no  evidence  th:it  anything  is  cut  out  from  the  MS.  here. 

■f  These  numbers  refer  to  pages  of  Pen.  MS.  101,  which  is  a  copy  of  this  MS. 

J  This  text  is  the  original  of  Pen.  MS.  7",  p.  295. 

§  One  leaf  (fol.  318)  is  missing  from  the  middle  of  this  Cywydd. 


POEMS  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  623 

601  Mar:  Rys  Nanmor :  O  Iksv  bych  eisiae  Bardd  ....  a 

Nenbren  pob  Awen  pe  byvv  Lewis  Blon 

60i  fr  misoedd :  Calpn  mis  ^onor  ystwyll  Keli     ....  b 

A  Deo  a  John  yd  at  G.  Dd:  ap  Edmond 

607  A    brief  chronicle:  1400    y    codes    Ow:  ap    Gr:   ac  y  llosgos    RuthyQ 
1403  y  Uosges  Ow:  ap  Gr:    Ddinbech  .  Die  nesaf    yn    ol    hj-nny 

y  bu  lladdfii  vawr  y  Vyrnwy 
1406  y  Uosges  y  Saeson  escopty  IJan  Elwy 
1403  y  bu'r  vatel  yn  y  Mwythio  gwyl  Vair  Vagdalen  &c. 

Transcript uin  ex  libra  B      Hugh  Gwyn  ap  Dd:  ap  R 

608  Ych  rhubydJ  ydd  wy  a  chribau  Redyn     ....  c 
Del  ywch  waeth  Diawl  a  chwithau — "  ac  yma  ydd  oedd  diffic  '• 

609  (gofya  fy  raid  ir  enaid  rwy  gaii  dduw  &c.)  d 
b.       (llyma  Eag  llosc  tail     vn  mab  gwnonwy  a  loscodd  &o.)      e 

610  Mar:  merch:  Cwyna  cana  vi  cwyn  a  vydd,  Am  lion  ...      / 

Nys  galla  calou  ni  vedda  cael  nef  iddi       394'|" 

Jeu:  Gethin  ap  Jeu:  ap  ILeision 
614       Y  gwr  sydd  ar  y  groes  ir  waed  g 

Y  groc  draw  gwyaroc  draed     .... 

Y  gwenwyn  oil  gwna  vi  n  iach       399f  *Anon 

616  Y  DEC  TBI  ARBEmc  :  Tri  vn  sydd  yn  y  byd — Vn  Deo  sy 
yny  nef  Yr  vn  dywarchen  ydd  a  pawp  iddi  Vn  gwr  yw  angau  i 
biwb  .  .  .  ends:   Tri  dec — Dec  air  dedf  Decwm  Deo  Dec  byd  rbif. 

618       Ond  ambraint  gymmeint  a  gad     O  bechot     ....  h 

Y  vuchedd  i  vny  iechyd.  Syr  Lewys 

619  Meddwi  maivr  goegni  mae'r  gwr  yn  meddwi  &c.  i 
b.  Llvndain  drist  llawn  wyd  o  drip  &o.  k 
l:       Pedwar  diffeth  didor  pvr  ydynt  &o,                                       Jo:   Tadr    I 

d.  Ai  aradr  bregadr  ai  bar  ogav  Uym  &c.  Da:  ap  Edm:  m 

e.  Dywaid  hyn  eiry  gwyn  oer  gyni  tefyll  &o.  Morys  ap  5f.  ap  Eignon   n 
f.  Calonnau  tonnav  lie  tynir  badav  &o.  „              „                o 

620  Y  dyn  a  elwir  yn  domas  &c.  „  ,,                p 

b.  Yn  nydd  lloer  newydd  ar  naw  ar  y  gloch  D.  Nanmor  q 

c.  Dav  vn  tri  yw'r  vhi  mewn  rhod  &c.  Anon  r 

d.  Croger  annoger  yn  vwch  na  lladron  &c.  Deio  vel  Z).  Edm:  s 
K.  Od  aeth  trwm  alaeth  alar  och  ^esv  wych  Essex  ir  ddaiar  &c.  t 

f.  Oni  ddaw  gwisgaw  gwasgar  /  naws  eisiav  &e.  Tho:  Prys  u 

621  O  mynni  bwytta  di  damaid  &c.  Tho:  ap  Ho:  ap  Morgan  v 
h.  Ehych  gwych  wrych  wlych  nyeh  drych  drist  &c.               [Casnodyn  lo 

c.  Tebyg  yw  rhyw  rhefr  ytgyrn  &c.  Bleddijn  fardd    x 

d.  Mil  chwechant  ai  wrantv  .  .  pan  ddel    .     .  y 

0  waith  y  ffydd  y  dydd  dv  II  o  bin  Ddv 

e.  Kares  da  gweles  duw  gwynn  &c.  Sion  brwynog    z 
f.       Gronyn  o  honyn  henwyd  eirionyn  &c.  „  a 

622  Pan  oedd  ddychanv  rhwng  Tho:   Gnjlhor  y  foch,  u  Dd:  ap  b 

Niclas  qwydd  vuUyiegdiog  :  Ynjgais  di  Dd:  yn  amgeu, 
a  tbrwm  od  aeth  yma  gyiinen  &o.  Sim:  Vychan 

b.  Dwyfil  yw  gwersi  dafydd  a  chwechant  &c.  c 

c.  Llawer  bron  yn  Uai  ir  brenhin  heddyw  /  hawdd  y  gallwn  chwerthiu    d 

]Iawcr  saia  Uevbais  llibin  A  gro  yn  do  ar  i  hiv.      Ednyfed  Vychan 

*  Attributed  to  Rhys  Llwyd  Brydydd  in  a  Cwrtmawr  MS. 

t  These  numbers  refer  to  pages  of  MS.  101,  which  is  a  copy  of  this  MS. 


C24  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   99-100. 

d,  Naws  oidval  modrlal  sy'u  meddwi  /  saeson     ....  a 

Naws  cwL'w  Caer  nis  c4r  ki.  ^  Anon 

e.  Yma  ydd  ym  o  ddamwaia  an  hoccrell  &c.  Gi'in  ap  Sefnjn    b 
623        An  howddgar  feiuwar  ar  faneg  yn  avr  &c.  Jo:  Tudr    c 

b.  An  fwyn  An  acldwyn  An  ivych  An  Ivniaidd  &c.  „        „      d 

c.  Gwae  fi  yleni  pan  lamvyd  y  gest  .  .  min  yn  ol  gwin  a  wnel  gwartli.  e 

e.  Tewgrys  t6  dyrys  ly  aderyn  gwyllt     ....  f 

Tlawd  heb  vn  brawd  ar  ben  bryn  Si/r  Ow:  ap  Gl'm 

f.  Ehediad  rhyw  doiad  a  rhad  ewybr  /  rhadlawn  &c.      Sion  Brwynog    g 

C24       J  ^euaii  ap  Or:  leiaf:  Gwybydd  lo  trefydd  acliau  tryfer  ....  h 

darn  arall  yn  dvrnorion.  Gittto  r  glyn 

b.       Ti'i  diofer  cler  yw  cloch  ac  aberth  ac  Abad  LI.  dudoch  &c.  T.  Aled   i 

6?.5       Abad  mvl  brychiad  moel  brocb  diobaith  nid  abad  Llan  dudoch  &e.    k 

b.  Saitb  droedtedd  haelwedd  hyhvydd  a  devgaiu  ....  I 

yw  bwrw  naid  yn  Aber  nodwydd. 

c.  Edrych  Angharad  dan  odryn  y  gwallt  od  yw  gwyllt  fy  nrhemyn  &c.  m 

d.  0  oherais  Angharad  wych  eirian  n 

i  rhyw  rhodd  Edu:  fycban  &o.  Einion  ap  Gl'm 

e.  Betni  ryw  sentri  y  sj'dd  /  a  wermod  &c. 

626  Twm  hwch  twm  y  Uwch  twm  boll  achau  raoch       ....  p 
Pcffro  Twm  gidwm  gedyrn  i  ddancdd  &c.                       Gvtto'r  Ghjn 

b.        Gwell  gweddi  ddifri  o  ddwyfrou  a  ganer  a  genav  dyn  ffyddlon  q 

J  egori  nef  ir  gwiiion  na  mil  o  egoriadav  mon  Anon 

e.  Mae  gwraig  heb  ddim  gorwegi  ddiddig  .  .  a  fyn  hyn  >t  fynno  hi.        r 

d,  lie  'r  i\  Iwk  wiwsel  wlkesar  /  lliaws  &e.  „        s 

e.  (Saws  glas  ym  mhob  plas  paliswydr  hyd  Fon  &o.  J.  ap  M^  ap  J.  llwijd)  t 

627  Blaen  cgin  ar  bin  mewn  rhos  a  berwuant  a  borant  heb  aros  &c.  u 
b.  Cais  ^fan  y  fran  farwnaidd  irchwedl  ar  iwrch  bruttanaidd  &c.  v 
u.  Yn  y  bon  ni  thrigwch  He  ni  bydd  eanu  ewoh  ir  canol  beiinydd  &o.  w 

d.  (Y  fidlerai  gler  gulorriog  meddwaest  .  .  Dyfnont  oedd  yn  y  defini)    .  j. 

e.  (Pont  wastad  i  wlad  oleidon  odiaeth  ydwit  harddwch  merion  &c.)     y 

631  Index  to  first  Hues  arranged  alphabetically. — A  to  T  in  the  hand  of 
Dr.  John  Davies  of  Mallwyd  and  the  rest  (pp.  637-8)  in  the  autograph 
of  William  Maurice  of  Llansiiin. 


MS.  100  =  Hen.  430.  Poetry  cliiefly  of  the  xvith  century. 
Paper;  7^  X  5J  inches;  pages  7-560  (folios  4-270  and  2  folios  of 
Inde.>c),  -wanting  beginning  and  end  ;  bound  in  calf. 

Writers:  This  MS.  is  written  by  two  hands  corresponding  to  a  and  ,8  in  MS.  99. 
Pages  7-219,  5:)C-G0  are  iu  hand  a,  i.e.,  in  the  autograph  of  Dr.  Davies  ;  and  pages 
219-555  are  in  hand  /3,  except  the  whole  or  parts  of  pages  315,  333,  335-6,  366-8, 
374-5,  410-11,  421,  430  and  440  which  are  in  hand  o. 

Transcribers :  Among  those  who  have  used  and  copied  at  least  portions  of  this 
MS.  are  Robert  Vaughau  of  Hengwrt,  Jaco  abDewi  (pp.  97,  160,  311),  Wm.  Wynu, 
Lewis  Morris  of  Pembryn  who  has  left  marginalia  throughout  the  MS.  which  he 
"finished  the  perusal  and  examination  of  [iu]  London  .  10  .  Sept.  1756" 
(p.  555)  ;  and  the  Rev.  Dd:  Ellis  of  Tynewydd  in  Efionydd  writes  on  the  fly-leaf 
on  August  10th,  1793 — "  I  have  perused  this  MS.  with  due  care  and  attention,  it 
contains  most  excellent  poems  and  transcribed  pretty  correct  "—poor  Dr.  Davies,  to 
be  patronised  thus. 

Owners:  It  is  doubtful  whether  those  who  wrote  "  verus  possessor  "  "me  jure 
tenet "  "  his  booke  "  alw.ays  understood  the  meaniag  of  these  phrases.  Richard 
Phillips  owns  it  in  1702  (p.  319),  1707  (p.  254),  1713  (129,  311,  &c.),  1716 
(p.  263,  &c.)  ;  and  yet  we  read  Lewis  PhiUips  "his  Booke"  1708  (p.  270),  "verus 
possessor"    1709  (p.  514),  and   John  Joues   "est  verus   possesio "    \_sic1    1708 


POEMS   BY   VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  625 

(p.  424,  &c.).  The  following  names  also  occur :— Rich:  Edwards  at  Pen  y  Werii  in 
tliecomm:  of  Cardigan  (p.  7)— Bardd  o  Abergwynolwj-n  yn  Sir  Feirioiiydd  (p.  53)  ; 
Stephen  Edwards  (p.  2B7)  j  Cadwalad  David  his  Book  1748  (p.  389). 

7       II  blaid  creaduriaid  eraill     ....  « 

gwae  gorph  a  fo  gcuog  iawn  Gr:  llwijd  dd:  ap  E'kj^ 

10       Blwyddyu  ar  bobl  i  Adda     ...  h 

at  dduw  lie  byddwn  byw  byth  feu:  op  Ri/s  ap  it'en 

13       Y  sir  oil  ft  fesuraf     ....  c 

ar  i  hyder  y  rbodiaf  Deio  ap  Jeuan  Dii 

17       Gwelaf  ar  ddigrif  brifardd     ....  d 

lul  a  had  yn  eu  hoi  hwy  Bedo  Phylip  hack 

20       Mae  yn  y  seler  dabler  deg     ....  e 

devswllt  yw'r  ergyd  issaf  Howel  Dafi 

23  Rhys  ap  Sion :  Aur  hir  a  aeth  ar  lynn  Ncdd     ....        f 

ac  iarll  o  van  ger  Haw  Eys  Lewijs  Gli/n  Kothi 

25       Y  gwr  ar  warr  y  garreg     ....  g 

dy  swydd  o  fewn  dy  syddyn     .... 

uid  vn  pab,  onid  mab  mair  Gutto'r  glyn 

28       Am  Wiliam  daeth  ym  wylaw  |  vychan     ....  /{ 

dwyn  oed  hir  a  dawn  y  tad  IIuw  Kae  llwyd 

31  /  Sion  .  .  hil  Gtm  .  .  wyr  Ph:  o  Langoed  ymrecheinog 

Silin  gwyr  Cantre  selyf     ....  i 

h^n  fo'r  ddeuddyn  nar  ddwyddar  Hyicel  Davi 

33  f  dri  thegan  morgan  a  mawd  .  .  ceirw   Caer  Wedros 

Y  tri  mab  lie  mae'r  tramwy     ....  h 
tri  oesi  cawri  i'ch  cair                                          Hyuel  Dafi 

36       Ami  yw  gwiu  i  frenhinedd  .  .  Glyn  nedd     ....  / 

pergwm  lys  pvr  ac  ami  oedd     .... 

Sion  fab  Ehys  oni  fo  prin  Ilywel  Kae  llwyd 

38  Mol:  Jfylib  ap  Thomas  o  Lann  goed 

Perthyn  arnad  ein  porthi     ....  m 

bydd  vn  frig  ar  caprig  gwyn  Hyivel  Dafi 

41  f  Rydderch  a  Gwenllian  :  Y  teyrn  an  lletya     ....         n 

cedwid  duw  y  ceidwad  hwn  Hino  Cae  llwyd 

43  Mol:  Wiliam  Herbert  o  Raglan 

Pwy  a  roe  gwymp  1  wyr  gant     ....  o 

na  marchog  eurog  or  art  Dafydd  Eppynt 

46  Mol:  Wiliam  Hafart  o  Aber  Bran 

Y  Karw  ]ffangc  o'r  Hafart     ....  p 
OS  hael  euioes  i  wiliam                                         ,,             ^^ 

48  Mol:  Tho:  ap  Edwart :  Y  llew'n  yunill  ein  ynys  ....  q 

Syi-  fych  fal  Rhosser  fychan  Hyioel  Swrdwal 

51  Mol:  Syr  Sion  .  .  canonwr  a  Gwilym,  meibion  Rhys 

Y  ddau  frodyr  ddifredych  ,■ 
a  bery  i  clod  fal  brig  clych     .... 

dau  lyn  nef  ai  dalio'n  vn  Hywel  Dafi 

54  Mar:  Wm:  llwyd:  Abereirch  He  bu  araiil     ....  s 

er  rho:  uiwl  ir  hen  aelwyd  Howel  Relnallt 

57  Mar:  Ho:  Penrhi :  Tri  A^a  o  naturiau  da     ...     .  t 

ba  wiw  eistedd  heb  jfustys  .   .  odid  i  ddiiw     .     , 

fyth  ddewis  y  fath  Hywel       222*  Lewis  Morgannicg 

*  This  number  refers  to  the  page  of  the  transcript  in  Pen.  MS.  101. 


C26  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPT   100. 

60  Mar:  Kys  ap  Sion  o  Lynn  Nedd 

Nef  ir  d^^n  fo  roid  ennyd     .     .     .     .      ^  a 

Yn  fyw  ar  wyr  nef  i  Eys     220*  Lewis  Morgannwg 

C4  Mar:  Syr  Rys  ,  .  .  ^' gwae  a'i  gwcles  yngresi." 

ILyma  oerchwedl  cenhedlawr     ....  6 

aed  ef  i  wenwlnd  nef  ner  folo  Goch 

66  3Iar:  JVatkyn  ap  liosser  Vychan  o  Vrodorddvn 

Y  mae  vtcoru  am  watkyn     ....  c 
Ei  waeth  ef  o  wyr  a  thir              feu:  ap  Hywel  Sivrdwal 

69  ^3Iar:  Dd: — Trist  o  fardd  y  troes  duw  fi     .     .     .     .  d 

oes  y  putn-oes  i'r  pum-maib  Gtin  ap  Jeuan  hen 

73  Mar:  Syr  Mosser  (vychan) 

Torrodd  fraint  cywraint  ceyrydd  /  a  thiroedd  ....  e 

Kefn  y  byd  i  gyd  ar  goedd    Koch  y  dant  al's  EJn  g.  y  d. 

76  Mar:  Syr  Water  Herbart. 

Dwyn  Syr  wator  ner  duw  nyd  /  ei  roddi     ....  / 

Y  maes  y  rhettocli  am  Syr  Water  Jor:  fynghoyd 
79  Mar:  Syr  Wiliam  fychan  "  marchog  Harri  viii  " 

JLawn  frig  Moreiddig  ymrodded  /  y  meirch     ....       g 
i  le  mor  weddys  lew  Moreiddig  Rhisiart  Jorwerth 

84   Mar:  Syr  Rosscr — "  mawr  ym  cwyn  tcirgwcnt." 

Aetli  cattcrweii  befi  bonedd  /  y  cedyrn     ....  h 

doe  yr  aetli  bennaetli  duw  a'i  iierbyuio         Rhys  Brychan 

87  y  £'Jwjo»/yt/j««  .•  Ochaf  ir  dewraf  roi  dwyran  /  o'r  byd     .     .     i 
ccnau  ddau  arial  vu  eyn  ddewred  Rhys  Brychan 

90  f  Rosscr  :  Enwer  y  ueidr  o  vnion  /  achau     ....  k 

o  gyff  y  neidr  a  gaid  Hywel  Swrdwal 

94  Mol:  Syr  Thomas  Vychan  "  o  lin  Brodorddin  " 

Y  gart  arglwyddwart  i'r  glin  /  a  gerddodd     ....         I 
myun  etto  gyiFro  pob  gwart  feu:  ap  Huw  Ka£  llwyd 

97  "  Awdwl  J  Rys  ah  Sion  o  lynn  Nedd  "\ 

Tra  fych  yn  gwledych  gwladoedd  /  hir-einioes  ....  m 

nim  dawr  o  fyw  awr  ond  tra  fych       Jorwerth  Fynglwyd 

100  ^  Syr  S.  Wgon  :  Blaenor  tir  a  mor  am  wryd  /  y  groes    .   .     n 
blaena  trwy  gaerydd  blaen  tre  garon     .... 
blaenaf  y  gedir  blaenwaod  wgon  Rhisiart  Jorwerth 

103  J  T.  ap  S'kyn :  Thomas  dan  guras  gorwyn  /  i'th  alwaf    .    .  o 
dy  wayw  yn  dwym  da  iawn  domas  liowel  Dafi 

107       fessu  naf,  galwaf  Sion  wyn  /  ap  Thomas  p 

mab  tymer  o  Siankyn     .... 
navvdd  ]fessu  liefyd  rhac  syihyd  Sion  Robin  Ddu 

109  Mol:  Edwait  Herbart,  Jarll  penfro 

Y  sydd  ac  a  fydd  ae  a  fu  /  o  Sant     ....  q 
a  fydd  ac  y  sydd  o  gas  iddi                                 Howel  Dafi 

113^  Harri  ddu :  Teccaf  gwlad  a  gad  i  gaol  /  pob  vrddas  .  .  .    r 
hacnai  a'n  dyccai  yn  gyn   decced  Gwilym  Tew 

*  This  number  refers  to  the  page  of  transcript  in  Pen.  MS.  101. 
t  "  Vide   G.    238  "  =  Addl.   MS.   14971.     This  reference  by  Robert   Vauglian 
shows  that  MB.  14971  was  not  imperfect  at  folios  238  in  his  time. 
J  This  title  is  in  the  autograph  of  Jaco  ap  Uewi, 


POEMS  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS. 


627 


d 


116  Mar:  Syr  Rosser  Fychan — "  brad  Syr  Bosser" 

Ti'oes  dinv  lef  trist  wj'lofain     .     ,     ,     .  a 

ueu  'r  byd  a  yirwyd  i'r  bedJ  Huw  Kae  ILicyd 

1 19  Mar:  ffan  ap  Gwilyni^  ap  TLywelyn 

Rhwyin  y\v  truaiii  Brycbeiiiiawg     ....  h 

par  oi  enaid  i'r  pryiiwr  Jeuan  ap  Hywel  Swrdwal 

122  Mar:  D.  llicyd  ap  Cad'r  a  Reinallt  ap  Gr:  ap  Bletliyn 

Dav  wr  liwnt  fal  blodeu  liios     ....  c 

yn  ei  faddou,  nef  iddyii  J^eu:  ap  Tttdr  Penllyn 

Martvnadeu  Jeuan  ap  Hywel  Swrdwal 
125       Gair  nm.  hoeres  grym  hiraotli     .     . 
gael  ystod  fwy  gloywstad  fydd 

1.28       Mae  yn  y  tir  my  a  y  tan     .... 
a  da  foniad  wyf  finiieu 

1.31       Hardd  gyfaill  hervvydd  gofeg     .     . 
anhoff  rwyf  oni  phrofir 

135  J  Hurri  vni:  Harri  freniu  y  gwinwydd 
ac  /  y  /  a  phoed  felly  f o 

139/  Jeuan  ap  Robert  ?  o  Gesel  Gyvarch 

Y  twr  o  Kotpcrt  eryr     .... 
ar  arf  wen  euro  'r  fynwe.s 

142  /  Walter  Herbert  Jarll  Penfro.     Sco  p. 

Y  bw  mawr  ba  wiw  yinaros     . 
duw  atii  geidw  ditbau  gadarn 

14G       Balch  yw  llawdden  yleni 

banw  mawr  medd  pob  un  i  mi 
0  ymdagu  mi  a'i  dygaf 

148       t^rctais  farch  dihafarch  dv     . 
dros  ei  fost  ar  draws  ei  farch 


Howel  Dafi 

TLe'n  goch  y  dant 

Or:  Dd:  Vychan 

Dafydd  llwyd 

Hywel  KcinalU 

291  below. 

224*     Lewys  Morgannxcg 
Hywel  Swrdwal 


f 


KiQwdden 
151  J  Syr  Wiliani  Thomas  o  Went 

Y  milwr  Ihvyd  mal  iarll  hen     ....  m 

byrr  anoes  bo  ir  wyneb  Huw  Cae  llwyd 

154       Am  eu  Uiw  y  mae  llawer  n 

o  son  am  anian  y  ser     .... 

ac  arfau  ar  chwedl  gorfod  Jolo  Goch 

157  J  Thomas  ap  Gr:  ap  Niklas 

Te^rrn  gwyr  ystrat  Towi     ....  o 

o  gwn  neu  feirch  geunyfi  Bedo  Ph:  Bach 

161  J  ofyn  hwech  o  ychen 

O  fair  beth  am  pair  heb  hau     .     .     .     .  » 

y  tair  iau  iddynt  hwy'r  ant  Jeuan  deulwyn 

164  J  ofyn  march  i  Forgan  ap  Jeu:  llwyd  ap  IL'n  ap  Ghn  a 

Gastell  Hywet :  Y  gwr  ai  dai  fal  gwavvr  dydd    ...       q 
arch  dithau  i  minnau  fo  mwy  /ew.-  Tew  brydydd 

167       Pwy  yw  piler  pob  helynt     ....  j- 

dyro  Syr  Siou  [?  or  Coety']  droswr  Sais 
ossawg  ym  gwas  y  Gramai.s     .... 
arch  a  chyrch  ddwyarch  o  chair  Jor:  fynglwyd 


*  This  number  refers  to  the  page  of  the  transcript  in  Pen.  MS.  101. 

t  "  V=  D.  241  [=  Addl,  MS.  14976].     F.  160-284."  in  auto,  of  Kobt.  Vaughan. 


628  tejsiiarth  manuscript  100. 

170       Gruffudd  ar  ddeurudd  wrawl     .     ,     .     ,  a 

Argoel  yw  ni  lywir  gwlad 
oni  chair  ofn  a  chariad     .... 
gadw  arglwydd  garth  Gwidol     Rys  llwyd  ap  R.  ap  Eicctrt 

173  jf  Sieffrai  Kyffin  i  ofyn  "  pais  rJiag  gieayw  Sais  neu  saefh  " 

Mae  Keidvvad  i'n  gwlad  a'n  gwledd     ....  J 

a  phwyth  hon  a  pheithynau  Gutto'r  glyn 

176  f  Mdthias  Cradog:  Pwy  wnai  sir  ar  dir  Caerdyf  ....  c 

felly  dduw  rhag  fy  lladd  i  jfor:  fynglwyd 

180  jf  Rufain :  Rhown  dref  a  nef  yn  vn   wedd    ....  d 

gael  ynnill  y  goleuni  Ho:  Dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rys 

183       Y  grog  aur  droedog  drydoll     ....  e 

a'r  cnawd  i  fedrawd  ei  lam  „  „ 

187  J'r  offeren :  O  dduw  mae'r  Lyn  a  oedd  dda    ....  / 

cywir  ffawd  i'r  corfF  ydiw  Jeu:  ap  Rydd:  ap  J.  llwyd 

191  Mar:  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Dd:  ap  Einion 

Vchel  yr  wyf  yn  ochain     ....  g 

enaid  GruSydd  llwyd  yno  Rhys  Goch  o  Ervri 

196   Gogan  ir  fanmiad  ucJiod 

Pam  y  ken  heb  awenydd     ....  h 

dy  nod  par  ym  glod  gaii  gler  JTJ'n  moel  y  pantri 

199  Atteb  :  ]Levv  brwydr  fal  Haw  Beredyr     ....  i 

Pwy  a  beris  it  brisiaw  /  fy  ngherdd     .... 
diried  wr  dyred  i  iawn  Rhys  Goch  o  Eryri    '. 

203  Atteb  :  Rhoes  dy  liw  Rhys  devluaidd     ....  k 

a  Gwycedd  fy  ngoganv  WJn  ap  Moel  y  pantri 

207  Atteb :  Dewrddivd  Lywelyn  daerddraig     ....  I 

awch  ym  miwydr  a  chymrodedd-  Rhys  Goch  o  Eryri 

212  J  Salurnus:  Byrr  arfeddyd  brithfyd  brau  m 

yw  eiu  hoedl  dan  blanheduu     .... 
drwy  gariad  ei  drugaredd  Edwart  ap  Rhys 

217  7  Fair  :  Y  fvn  deg  a  fendigwyd    ....  n 

enaid  a  chorff  nid  ych  waeth  Huw  Kae  JLwyd 

219  J  6  mab  Dd:  ab  Jthel  fychan  i  erchi  6  ychen 

Aer  evtvn  a  wyr  ytta     ....  o 

a  roir  ywch  er  yr  ychen  Dd:  ap  Edmwnd 

221  Moh  Tvdvr,  fV.  a  Sion  ivyn,  meib  Rob:  fychan  ap 

Tcdvr  ap  jffan  .•  J  Noe  hen  anwahanwaith     ....         p 
trindod  yw  kadw  trwy  vndeb  Gr:  Hiraethog 

225  Mar:  Dd:  ap  Jthel  o  ?  Lan  ewgain 

Y  mae  kof  a  mi  ai  kwyn     ....  g  . 
C[h]wecli  y  sydd  chwech  oes  vddyn         Dd:  ap  Edmwnd 

228  Mol:  Gr: — Pwy  /r/  gwayw  mawr  pvr  gymeriad  ....  r 

tro  ag  vrddas  tra  gerddych  Sion  keri 

230  /  Hiomffrc  ap  Hywel  ap  Siankyn  o  Ynys  y  Maengwyn 

Mae  Hew  glan  ymliell  ai  gledd     .     ,     .     .  s 

am  ych  gwaed  yma  ich  gedir  „         „ 

233  J  Edwart  ap  Howel  ap  Jenan  llwyd  or  Vaenor 

Y  barr  mwya  /  n  /  Aberyw     ....  t 
bevno  ai  kynhalio  /  n  /  liir                    Owain  up  JL'n  Moel 


POEMS   BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  629 

235  J  Doctor  Risiart  Dafis  Esgob  Mynyw 

Y  gwr  a  droes  y  gair  drwg     ....  a 
dan  vn  an  pardyno  ni                         Howel  up  syr  Matheio 

237  J  fathav  am  horys  o  wlad  Geri  . 

Byda  fel  oedd  byd  a  fv     .     .     .     .  b 

rboed  Matliav  fiiinav  ar  farcli  Jeuaii  few 

240  Mair  era  ddiwair  mam  ddvw  ion     ....  c 

trigaredd  a  diwedd  da  .  Dd:  up  Edmwnd 

242  f  Dduv) :  0  gyfarch  yn  y  gafell     ....  d 

dvw  a  wnel  yn  dwyn  y\v  wledd  „  „ 

245  Jr  byd :  Yna  yr  ys  yn  ymrysson     ....  e 

fy  naf  a  roddo  nef  ynn  Meredith  ap  Rhys 

248  Mol:  Thomas  Salbri  hen  j  o  j  Lyweni  esgwier 

Dialaeth  fv  dalaith  fon     ....  / 

Syr  Tomas  wnias  onnen     .... 

a  byw  for  iach  beb  farw  vn  Dd.  ap  Edmwnd 

251       Dy  fedd  nis  gada'.va  fi     .     .     .     .  g 

y  tri  /  n  /  vn  j'mlaen  tren  wyd  Guttor  glynn 

253  J  Jluw  dd:  "  Hew  maesyfaidd  "  ap  Lewes  o  1  bennkraig 

Y  koedvvydd  vwch  law  kedyrn     ....  h 
nsv  neb  oi  well  yn  y  byd                        Dd:  ap  Ho:  ap  Ho: 

255  f   IVm:  ap  Dd:  ap  Gr: 

Y  gwr  enwog  ir  anwyl     ....  i 
i  wiliam  hael  waywlym  ben                         Ow:  ap  IVn  moel 

258  J  drimab  Pasgen  ap  Gwynn  ap  gr:  ap  bell  arg:  Kegidfa 

ifawu  rboi  kerdd  drwy  angerdd  draw     ....  h 

tragwyddol  i  trig  vddyn  Hoivel  siordwal 

26]   J  Sion  goch  ap  Dd:  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  ddv 

or  Maes  mawr :  Y  karw  gwyngoch  kraig  .angerdd     .     .       I 
bedeir  oes  bydd  bid  ar  Sion      D.  ap  J.  ll'd  ap  Mer:  Lewis 

264  Mol:  Harri  riii:  Harri  ap  Harri  pared  yr  ^cssv  ....  m 

a  tbeii'oes  hirion  ith  ras  Harri  Sion  Brioynog 

268  Mol:  feu:  gethin  ap  Gr:  gethin  o  Riwlas 

Y  dilys  walch  a  dal  son     ....  n 
rbodded  duw  bir  ddyddiau  ilti  /'                         Howel  Kilaii 

272  Mar:  Gruffydd  devddwr 

Ai  gwyr  kwympo  gwr  kampvs     ....  o 

bid  ir  gwr  bedr  egoriad .  /  »  j, 

275  Mol:  Gr:  ap  Dd:  tafarn 

Mae  geiriav  nevaddav  nvdd     ....  p 

a  cbymer  vn  cm  ehwemeircb  Gwilim  ap  Jev:  hen 

278  J  Rich:  Herbert  o  Benhelli,  hwnstahl  haer  ystwyth 

B  gad  gwart  berbert  i  bonn     ....  q 

syr  fyddycb  nis  rbyfeddir  Dd:  ap  feu:  lloyd 

281   f  Syr  Wiiiam  Tomas  o  Lan  galheii 

Marcbog  wiliam  meirch  galatb     ....  r 

avr  y  glin  ar  magi  vnwaiUi  D.  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  vaughan 

284  Mol:  Simwnt  Thclwal 

Krist  y  tad  tyiiad  diofal  keidwad     ....  s 

a  bii'oed  at  bynn  a  ro  dvw  (ad  Wm:  TLyri 


G30  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   100. 

287  J  Robert  llwyd  or  TVavn  ysgwier 

Ami  yw  rhai  ai  mael  ar  hynn     ,     .     ,     ,  a 

adel  vwcli  hoedl  a  iechyd  Wm:  TLyn 

291  J  Syr  Wa'er  Herbert  Marchog      See  p.  142  above. 

Pa  wr  ormodd  ir  parment     ....  h 

wrth  wyn#  gweut  i  nerthv  /n/  gwyr  Jer:  fynglwyd 

294  Mol:  Gr;  Penrhyn  ap  ll'n  op  gr:  vaughan  ap 

gr:  Deuddwr  :  Y  gwr  fal  gei  o  warwig     ....  c 

eled  avr  ar  i  liw  dv  Howel  Kilan 

297  Mol:  TLywelyn  ap  Gr:  fychan,  "  keidwad  Deuddwr" 

]Lyvvelyn  oil  ai  olvd     ....  d 

bydd  ar  grym  bo  iddo  r  gras  /  ,,  „ 

300  J  ofyn  hangmer  i  Wm:  gilbert  y  meddig 

Y  gwr  hael  a  gar  helynt     ....  e 
gaun  y  gwr  vgain  oi  gwerth                    ffun  tew  brydydd 

303  Mol:  Howel  ddv  ap  Howel  ap  Madog 

Madog  oedd  rywiog  ffordd  yr  ai,  liavl  wybreii  ....  f 

y w  devodav  /  r  /  dii  o  fadog  .  /  Bedo  Brwynllys 

30G  Mol:  Dd:  llwyd  ap  gwilhn  o  gastell  Hywel. 

draw  iiid  awn  wedi  /r/  vn  dj'dd     ....  g 

ef  ai  wraig  heb  fawr  egin  Jeuan  Deolwyn 

309  Mol:  Morys  ap  Dafydd  ap  Morys  o  Geri 

Mawl  at  wyr  acth  mal  y  trig     ....  h 

ytlirowyn  bytli  a  thro  /  n/  benn  Sion  Keri 

312  Mol:  Syr  Risiart  Herbert  kwnstabl  haer  ystwylh 

Pwy  biav  /  r  /  gair  pybyr  y  gwnu     ....  i 

marchog  o  weut  mair  ach  gad  Rys  Nantmor 

315  ^   Siams  Prys  or  Mynachdy 

Teyrn  oes  yn  tyrnasu     ....  U 

i  ddiawl  eithr  a  ddeil  wrthyd  Sion  Keri 

318  J  D,  ap  J.  ap  einion  (or  Cryniarth  yn  edeyrnion). 

Y  blaenaf  o  bobl  wyncdd     ....  I 
o  wynedd  am  annedd  mwy                                 Dd:  Nantmor 

320  f  ffan  yoch  benllwyd  "  Itarw  gicrol  hryg  eryr  " 

Mae  hwnt  wr  a  maiiit  ^orys     ....  m 

byvv  trwy  ddvw  fyth  boed  rliwydd  fo  .  /  Sion  keri 

323  _7  <^^'i  inob  Jfan  blaeniae  .  / 

Trindod  sy  /  n  /  troi  o  vn  dyn     ....  « 

yn  wyr  hen  a  wna  r  heini  Hvw  Fennal 

326    Mol:  Mredydd  ap  Rys  Dd:  llwyd  o  Geri 

Mae  gwr  mawj'  i  gymeriad     ....  o 

erioed  yma  ar  Domas  Jfan  Dd:  Ddv 

328       Y  gwr  a  gar  gwyr  ag  onn     ....  p 

egin  tryffin  wyt  ryfiiidd     .... 
a  ro  i  ti  wisg  o  avr  tawdd  Oiv:  ll'n  Moel 

331  f  Gadwaladr  ap  gr:  o  ryslog 

Y  karw  ievank  karvaidd     ....  q 
Kadwaladr  ackw  y  delych                  Ow:  ap  ll'n  ap  y  moel 

333  J  Ho:  Colunwy  :  Howel  o  gwnscl  gwinsawr  i'th  vrddwyd  .  .  .  r 
hynn  a  wna  dofyn  yn  bendefig  .  /     D.  ap  Mred:  ap  tvdvr 


fOEMS   BY   VAHIOUS  AUTHORS.  031 

336   Yfaenor  Edw:  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  lloyd  "  ywch  y  ueriw.-" 

Jechjd  i  wr  vchod  el     ...     .  a 

iiewydJ  hen  fjdd  a,  hya  foal;  Gvltvn  y  Glynn 

338  jf  Syi   Owain  Pwlficcar  Aberyw 

Y  gwr  Hen  gwrawl  llvniaidd     ....  b 
kob  i  esgob  a  -ivipgo                                          Lewys  Powys 

341  Kyuydd y  tri  brodvr  meibion  trefaivr 

Y  trywyv  o  waed  troya     ....  c 
tro  oes  yr  h^dd  tros  y  rhain                          Gyttyn  Owain 

344  f  Rys  ap  Morys  ap  Oiven  o  Abevbechan 
^        Eys  wynn  o  fory.s  yu  farwn  ith  roed     ....  d 

ni  bv  rwysg  hen  driehawr  na  bai  R.  kyn  dreched       S.  Keri 
347  3fol:  ILtochayarn  filwr  a  sant  o  Lam  yr  ewig 

Ond  o'r  fonwent  ar  faenawr     ....  e 

gwna  -wrthiav  rhawg  nertliv  Rhys  „         „ 

350  J  Wmffre  Kinastr :  Mae  aerwy  gwynn  am  warr  gwr  ...  / 

)f.oli  vrddol  I'ych  ar  ddol  fawr  „         „ 

352  Aivdl  i  Rowland  Pilstwn  o  gaernarfon 

Dichon  dvw  gyfiou  gofiwr  y  brenin     ....  g 

fywyd  a  iechyd  ef  ai  dicboii  IViii:  llyn 

358  f  S.  ap  Rhys  ap  Morys :  Mae  o  einion  ymwanwr     ...         h 
yw  dal  hynod  el  henaiut  Sion  Keri 

361  ^  Dd:  gethin  gr:  goc/t    ?  o  Lann  tunnog 

Post  vuion  powj's  da.nocli     ....  i 

dan  Harri  ddewr  dvw  n  rhwydd  yd  lUiys  Deganwy 

363  y  Ryffydd  ap  Gwilim  op  Gr:  Derwas  or  Kemcs 

Y  gwyr  ar  wlad  a  gweiriwyd     ....  h 
knawd  dewr  byw  knot  ar  bowya               Dd:  ap  Jeu:  lloyd 

3G5  f  HviclSae  o'r  Trallimg 

Haerllyg  ym  wyd  nat'  hiiilwyd     ....  I 

llavV  dduw  ich  ca'lvv  huw  ei  hvn  JL'n  3Ioel  y  pantri 

3(58  Mol:  Morvs  ap  Owain  ap  ll'n  o  Riw  'r  Saeson 

Mae  i  15owys  wr  ym  mhob  sias     ....  m 

iesii  rhoed  oes  hir  yw  dwyu  Sion    Keri 

370  3[ol:  Edward  gruffydd  or  Penrhyn 

Vn  dcwr  a  gloed  mown  dvr  glas     ....  n 

Uyddia  drais  Haw  dvw  drossod  Toinas  gwynedd 

373  Mol:  Syr  Rys  Grvjfydd  or  Penrhyn 

Kad(lv  om  awenyddiaeth     ....  o 

gras  dvw  yd  farchog  rys  doeth 

377  Jachav  wnliam  fychan  sianiberlen  Ma 

Dwyn  bonedd  dan  i  benwnn     ....  p 

fab  Addaf  fab  dvw  naf  ner  Rhys  Goch 

380  /  Mr.  Robert  Salbri  o  Rvg 

Pwy  r  dvr  (da)  pvr  dewr  a  doetli     ....  q 

i  cliwi  air  dyn  gwych  ar  dol     227*  Lewis  Mvrgamvg 

383  Mol:  Syr  Jfan  llwyd  o  Jal 

Fob  byw  wrth  i  ryw  ir  aetli     ....  r 

a  dvw  dad  a  gadw  dy  wj>r  Wni:  ILyn 

387  Mar:  Mr:  Rys  Thomas  ap  Syr  Wiliam  .   15)0  . 

Troe.«  dvw  alar  tros  dwywiad     ....  s 

a  fo  'n  iarll  i  fyw  'n  i  61  Wiliam  llyn 

*  This  number  refers  to  the  page  of  the  transcript  in  Pen.  MS.  101. 


032  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   lOO. 

391  Mar:  3  mab  a  Sferched  Gi:-  ap  R.  ap  Mad;  gloddaith 

Soiri  ddvvv  n  pen  saor  ydd  wyd     ....  a 

vn  blaid  nef  fo  in  blodav  ni  Robin  ddvy 

304  J  Ris:  S.  0  fi/elll  vn  o  wyr  y  gart  y  frenhiius  Elizabeth 

Eisiart  sion  grevlon  gwrolaeth  lloegr  oil     ...     ,  b 

ciniocs  i  Risiart  na.s  arhosodd  Sion  Tvdvr 

399  Mar:  Huio  ap  Sion  ap  Howel  o  Lanfendigaid  .  13T^  . 

Ocli  hir  lie  y  kerir  kywiriaid  ddwyn  Hew     ....         c 
Am  na  adei  ddvw  ynn  hvw  yn  hir  William  JLyn 

403  Mol:  Wm:  gr:  ap  Rhobin  o  Gychwillan 

Mae  gwahawdd  ym  a  gohir     ....  .     d 

einioes  fawi'  yn  jnj's  f6n  Rhys  goch  glynn  dyfrdwy 

408  J  Tjjdvr  ap  Jer:  Sais :  Meddylio  i  ddwyf  mav  ddolvr  ...        e 
a  thro  tra  fynnych  a  thrig  Rhys  ap  kynwvig  goch 

411  Mol:  Dd:  abad  Glyn  Egwestl 

Mae'r  henwyr  ai  meirw  y  rlieini     ....  f 

tri  ag  vn  trwy  wiw  geunad  Gytto  /  r  /  glyn 

414  f  Hwlliyn  ap  Ho:  ap  Jerwerth 

Kad  ddirwy  keidw  ddwy  rodd     ....  g 

naf  dircw  ncf  ai  dyry  Risierdyn 

417  Mar:  Rosier  ap  Sion  a  Vorgantug 

")  mae  hiraeth  im  hoeri     ....  h 

ado  hwu  wedi  hyny  Rhys  goch  glyn  dyfrdwy 

419  j^  S.  Edio:  Wrth  drainwy  rliwng  y  ddwy  wavn     ,     .     .     .    i 
nad  el  yr  hwn  ai  deil  y  rliawg  Deio  ap  Jeuan  Dv 

422  diar:  Mabli  verch  Morys  o  Gemes 

Dvw  sydd  ar  yn  dwy.s  weddi     ....  k 

da  i  hvn  fo  dvw  yw  Iienaid  Sion  mowthwy 

425  /  Wiliam  Sion  o  Benarth         2  lines  imperfect 

Mae  (lev/r  amod  i  evraw     ...  I 

kodi  /  n  /  vwch  dwyn  kadwyn  avr       Jfathew  ap  ll'n  guch 

428  f  ofyn  12  muwch  a  wsrtheg  a  tharw  gan  T.  Prys  4-c. 

Are f well  y  gvvr  if'ank     ....  m 

kadwaladr  .  .  aer  Watkin  (0  Garth  Iwyd)     .... 

a  barha  ir  neb  ai  rhoes  Jeu:  Tew  brydydd 

432  Mar:  yr  hen  Domas  Moslyn  tad  Wm:  Mo^tyn 

Darf'v  pob  gallv  ar  gelled  maer  byd     ....  n 

o  ddvw  orfod  a  ddarfv  Wm:  JLyn 

438  Mar:  Jfan  tew  brydydd  o  Lanidlus 

Och  wyr  hwyr  vwch  ciriav  heirdd     ....  0 

ILai  ynn  odlau  'n  llanidlos     .... 

biU'dd  .  .  .  o  lys  a  gwj^s  Lewys  Gwyn     .... 

ifan  tew  fo  i  enaid  hwun  Sion  Phylipp 

441  J  Rytherch  ap  gr:  ap  Morys  0  Wydd  Gwion 

Y  mae  dyn  am  y  dynion     ....  p 

heb  vn  or  rliyw  /n/  benn  ar  hwnn  Ow:  Gwyncdd 

445  Mar:  Jthel  ap  Gr:  ap  Bleddyn  0  yslrad  Almi 

Ocr  oedd  ofal  ar  ddyfed     ....  q 

dvw  gywaetbog  dwg  ^thcl  John  ap  Howcl 

JS.  op  0.  Abad  YstradFjiur,  Y.  Marchell  ag  A.  Conwy 
449       Kid  balch  uid  di  falch  ond  Dafydd  Abad     ....  r 

m  bv  cud  difalch  neb  ond  Dafydil  Tvdvr  Aled 


POEMS   BY   VARIOUS  AUTHORS. 


G33 


d 


453       Abnsdol  o  bowysdir     .... 

a  chaer  gaiut  i  chvvi  /  r  /  gyntaf  Lewis  Mon 

■156       Mae  gennym  yma  gannon     .... 

Abad  holl  ystrad  .  .  fflvr  bid  yii  fflwr  abadav     .... 
lLafvrio  mae  /  r  /  Hyfyr  mawr     .     .     . 
iia  bo  pab  o  ueb  heb  hwn 

459       Yr  abad  doeth  drwy  r  byd  hwnn     .     . 
mewn  avr  rhvdd  er  mwyn  ai  rhoes 

462       Pwy  Abad  gwastad  gwestiwn     .     .     . 
da  fo  i  ddiben  Dafydd  Abad 

4G6  J  Rys  ap  JVn: — Y  gwr  vcbel  i  grecliwen 
pe  bai  rys  pawb  ar  i  61 

468       Maenghinio  yr  klvdo  klod 

yu  Aberjw  yn  barod     .... 

a  gwraig  well  nor  gwyr  i  gyd  .  Gim  ap  Jeiian  hen 

470       Krov  trill  nis  kred  rbai  en}'d     ....  (j 

Robyn  fayr  wilkiii  far  well  Dd:  Uoi/d  ap  U'n  ap  gr: 

473       Griiffydd  aweuydd  vniawn   .   .  ap  U'li  fyclian     ....      h 
yw  dwyn  Haw  ddvw  am  danad  John  ap  llowel 

J  Dd:  ap  Yioain  abad  Ystrad  Marchell 
480       Vcbel  yw  dysg  rbydychen     ....  i 

pwy  licb  faddav  pab  fyddyd  ^eu:  ILwi/d  Brijdi/dd 

485 


Jeuan  Dcvlwyn 

Ow:  ap  IL'n  moel 

TFm:  Effwad 

Dd:  Nanmor 


J 


Y  penn  y  rhoed  pan  ar  hwn     .     . 
gofyn  dwr  ar  gefn  dorwydd 

489       O  bavd  iach  Abad  a  wn     .     .     . 
bwy  /  n  /  y  byd  natli  henw  bedydd 

492       Pwy  sy  benn  powys  o  barcb     .     . 
gofyn  y  peurhyn  ywr  pwyth 

496       Y  ty  kanporth  teg  kwmpas     .     . 
no  chaer  gaint  oni  chair  gwell 

499       Yr  wynebwr  yn  Abad     .... 
poetri  r  beirdd  poet  hir  y  bo 

£02       I'wy  an  keidw  impyn  kadarn     ,     . 
bid  trwy  achvb  y  trichwech 

505       "VVynebwr  gwych  yn  Abad     .     .     . 
ai  bwyth  a  gewch  o  betli  gwell 

507       Y  mae  ardreth  a  mowrdravl     . 
ir  arglwydd  Daf3'dd  a  ddel 

511       Dafydd  wyd  fal  dewi  dda     .  .     . 

ymarch  fal  y  mynnoch  fi 

514  f  Margred  gwraig  Madog  Kloddailh 

Mewn  vn  llys  mwy  no  n  holl  iaith     .     . 
gem  o  wraig  ar  gymrv  yw 

518  7  "^y  '^omas  Salbri  o  LywerA 

Pwy  kledd  dwy  wynedd  a  diuas  Dinbych 
pren  sy  ganol  prins  gwj'nedd 

523       Y  gwr  ir  a  gwar  arian     .... 

Ho:   .  .  hil  fadog  .  .  llin  .  .  frod:     .     .     . 


Tvdvr  A  led 


Lewis  Mon 

Ho:  Rcinallt 

Jen:  Tiidiir  Penllyn 

liedo  Ih'wynllys 

D.  ap  Mred:  ap  Tvdvr 

Gr:  ap  U'n  Vaugliaii 


P 


Tvdvr  Aled 


trwy  eigion  byd  trig  yn  benn 
y  98430. 


Jngho  Brydydd 
Y 


634  I<ENIA.RTH  MANUSOElPTS    i  00-101. 

526  Mar:  Rhys  Nanmor :  O  f  essv  byth  eisieu  bardii     ....    a 
Gwell  ai  gywydJ  gruflydd  gryg     .... 
Nanmor  o  faenor  fynyw 
nen  bren  pob  awen  yw  Lewis  Mon 

528  J  TVm:  Sion  :  Y  gwr  sy  liwy  nog  y wr  sir    ,     ,     .     .  b 

Gvvr  a  biau  .  .  .  goed  ag  yd  gwedi  gada     .... 
Uei  hav  nag  yn  Han  egwad     .... 
ond  0  law  ne  dai  'wilim  Jcuan  Devlwyn 

531  f  ddiolch  i  berson  TLan  drvnio  am  '^ffon  hardd  ag 
ar  i  ffen  hi  aderyn  wedi  dorri  " 
Son  a  ddanfones  ^essv     ....  c 

ar  ffon  goll  orfEen  y  gin  Dd:  JLoyd 

534  y  Ddvw  :  ^essu  hwde  nyfosiwn     ....  d 

oes  oesoedd  itli  lys  ^essv  Robert  Leia 

536  ]f  ofyn  March :  Y  neidyr  a  wyl  yn  y  drin     .     ,     ,     .  e 

Erhvgl  y  down  .  .  .  hyd  yn  hal  garth     .... 
a  thrwy  r  fal  neitliiorwr  fydd  Jeu:  hae  llwyd 

539       O  arfon  i  fon  ai  fya  uaf  evrgryd     ....  / 

rvgl  glod  rys  gorfod  ros  ag  arfon  Dd:  ap  Edmwnd 

543  f  Sion  ap  Ho: — Yr  liael  lafvr-wr  bylaw     ....  g 

bvr  i  gwaed  a  bair  i  gael  Morys  ap  J.  ap  Eingion 

547       Gwedi  ym  gav  am  gerddav  gwcn     ....  h 

a  del  i  Rys  dalv'r  iawn  Dd:  Nanmor 

550  y  Tydecho  :  Mae  gwr  llwyd  yma  garllaw     ....  i 

Eled  bawb  or  wlad  y  bo  i  dvcbaii  at  Dydecbo    Dd:  llwyd 

656-60.     Au  alphabetical  Index  to  first  lines  from  A  to  ilf— the  remainder 
being  lost. 


MS.  101  =  Hen.  76.  The  Poetical  Wokks  of  Tudub  Aled, 
Lewys  Morgannwg,  and  Howel  Davi  ap  ^euan  ap  Euys.  Paper ; 
7J  X  6  inches ;  392  pages ;  in  the  autograph  of  Robert  Vaughan  of 
Hengwrt ;  half  bound. 

1  The  \^  tribes  of  North  Wales*:  The  first  of  the  tribes  of  North 
Wales  was  Hwfa  ap  Cynddelw  .  He  lived  in  the  time  of  Owen  Gwynetli 
prince  of  North  Wales,  some  bookes  of  Peclegrees  aleage  that  lie  was 

steward   to   the   said   prince  &c ends  :    15  Ednywain    ap 

Bradwen  is  by  writers  called  lord  of  Merioneth  .  .  his  house  lljs 
Bradwen  is  to  be  scene  in  the  township  of  Cregenan  in  Talybout 
^scregenan  .  .  .  of  the  which  W.  D.  lloyd  of  Peniarth  lately  disseised 
Avas  descended  ....  Ednoved  ap  Aron  is  sayd  to  entertayne  Owen 
Glyndwr  .  .  secretly  in  a  cave  by  the  sea  side  in  the  parish  of  ILan- 

gelynin  .  .  called   Ogo  Owen of  this  Ednyved  was  descended 

Morgan  ap  Gr:  .  .  .  who  by  chance  in  the  streets  of  London  far  in  the 
night  met  Henry  8  ,  .  .  they  drew  and  fought  hardly  ....  the 
king  did  left  him  goe  sayinge  that  he  was  a  lustie  man  &  ever  after 
he  was  called  Lustie  Morgan.     This  is  a  report  how  true  I  know  not. 


•  "  This  account  of  the  15  tribes  must  have  been  written  after  the  IGth  Nov: 
"  1660. — on  that  day  Serjeant  Gljnne  was  knighted— &  before  the  end  of  August 
"  1665,  as  on  the  12th  of  that  month  in  that  year,  the  Bishop  of  Bangor,  hereafter 
«'  mentioned — Wm:  Roberts — died."    W,  W.  E.  Wynne. 


POETRY  BY  TUDUE  ALED.  635 

Morgan  hir  inawr  gaa  Harri  a 

Mae  llynden  dan  daden  di 

Odlev  a  Chywyddeu  gan  Tudvr  Aled. 

17       Euron  vwcli  goron  ewch  i  gaerydd  Sin     ....  b 

euro'r  liaid  ar  yr  hediad  Tudur  Aled 

22  3Iar:  Si/r  Tomas  Salbri  [died  January  1S05']  . 

Gwae  holl  gred  tryined  tromwedd  am  ercliwyn .     .     .     .      c 
am  nas  ynnill  grym  |  yn  sy'n  holl  gred 

26  3Iol:  Roetsier  Salbri  :  Aer  ILyweni  iarll  wyneb     ...  d 

ir  byd  par  wybod  pwy  wyd 

30      Pe  rhon  torri  pren  tirion     ....  e 

pum  haerwy  aur  fo  i  pum  rhodd     .... 

33  /  Si/r  Wm:  ap  Gr: — Mor  llawen  mae'r  llu  ieuaingc  ...       / 
dyred  ddug  yr  drydydd  waith 

37  7  ^/j"*  ''*'■"'  *  'S'joji  aer  y  Conwy 

Os  da  waleh  onest  i  wyr     ....  g 

rhodded  a  gofynned  farch 

39  f  dd:  Abad  ystradmarchel  i  ofyn  march  dros  Syr 

Lewis  Syttwn  :  Pwy  sy  ben  yn  passio  byd     ....        A 
dan  bwyth  deunaw  o  bethau 

41  y  Syr  Rys  ap  Tomas  :  Saint  ^orys  ai  wayw'n  taraw  ...         i 
tair  bran  end  duw  ar  brenin 

44  Etto :  Syr  Rys  feirch  sain  Siors  fnrchawg     ....  k 

drych  henaint  ar  ycb  wyneb 

47  JEtto :  Bardd  wyf  ac  yn  bwrw  ar  ddau     ....  I 

ban  ro  duw  faes  banred  fych 

49  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  Ho:  o  Rug 

Duw  gwyn  er  digio  ennyd     ....  »» 

gwnaed  duw  ag  enaid  Howel .  / 

52  f  ofyn  elol  gan  dd:  llwyd  dros  Robert  ap  Rys 

Powys  Itvyd  pwy  sy  wladwr     ....  «' 

rbag  euro'r  ewig  hirwen  .  / 

54       Dewrder  rhoed  i  wrda  r  hawg     ....  o 

erchi'dd  wyf  farch  i  ddafydd     .... 
er  i  fwyn  i  roi  fenaid 

57  /  Robert  ap  Rys  o  Ddolgynwal 

Ar  goel  vndyn  mae'r  glendyd     ....  p 

byd  dydd  brawd  diwedd  breuder 

60  f  Syr  Rys  ap   Tomas 

Syr  Bwn  nerlh  dragwn  wrth  drangc  y  dyriias  .    .    ,    .     q 
oni  bo'n  dwysog  na  wypon  d'eisiau  / 

63  f  gymodi  Hwmffre  ap  Ho:  ap  Siancyn  ai  geraint 

Y  ceirw  mawr  y  cair  ei  medd     ....  r 

er  deigr  Mair  deg  ar  i  mab 

68  ^  Rob:  Salbri  o  Lanrwst : 

Ni  bydd  yn  yn  dydd  tra  fo  dwr  na  the.s     ....  s 

mi  a  wnn  na  bu  na  mv/y  ni  bydd 

73  /»•  dean  Cyffin  i  ofyn  main  melin  dros  3Ir:  Hanmer  or  ILai 

Pam  y  henwir  pum  heinioss     ....  t 

wyth  oedd  y  rhain  fyth  id  Rys 

y  2 


636  PENIAHTH  MANUSCRIPT   101. 

76  fofyiiBwcled:  dwyn  ar  oed  im  r  ydwyd      ....  a 

rhoi  oes  hir  ar  ai  rlioes  ym  Tudur  Aled 

78   C.  y  march  glas  a  roesai  W.  fijchan  o  Gorsygedol  ir  Bardd 

Cledd  dayar  wynedd  ai  drych     ....  h 

amgen  na  clierdd  am  gnyw  cliwyrn 

80  f  ofi/n  /f  ychen  :  Pa  wyr  a  gawn  yn  llawn  Jlytlir     ...       c 
ith  nai  daw  ycheu  duon 

84  jf  Sion  Salbri  Siambrlen  Dinbych 

Troes  vndyn  at  ras  hendad     ....  d 

wytli  yw'r  dj^n  ath  eura  di 

86  f  Syr  Risiart  Herbert :  Y  tarw  dewr  or  tir  dyrys    .     .     .     e 
hir  borth  duw  Herber  ith  dal 

89  f  S.  ap  Mred:  ap  Jeu:  llwyd  laid  To:  Morys  o  Lanfair  D.  C. 
Rhyfedd  oni  ddaw  rhyfel     ....  / 

aed  ir  vn  dyn  dewra  'n  does 

91   31ar:  Tudur  llwyd  o  Jal 

Mawr  yw  pwys  duw  marw  post  Jal     ....  g 

dyro  nef  i  deyrn  ^fal 

94  _7  S.  Gray  arg:  Powys 

^arll  Siou  gwaew  vnion  eginyn  emprwr     ....  Ii 

heb  henw  iarll  ar  y  penn  61 

98  jf  ofyn  Gwn  dros  Guiiun  Wilcoc 

jfolo  goch  pob  elw  a  gai     ....  i 

ceisied  guddio  cest  gwiddon 

100       Pwy  a  ran  gwaed  y  pren  gwia     ....  k 

Mastr  Eobart  saia  Lwmbart  lun  .  .  .  synwyr  Ortun    .     ■ 
amgylcli  haul  am  y  gwalch  hwn . 

103       Bwriwyd  help  ar  y  brud  hynn     ....  / 

bid  ar  vn  bedair  einioes 

105       ]fawn  yw  troi  enw  y  triael     ....  m 

a  thann  bwyth  hyuu  o  bethau 

108       Y  dref  ar  dorr  yr  afon     ...  n 

dy  wr  ai  gwisg  fal  draig  wen 

110       Y  tri  maib  at  yr  ymwan     ....  o 

maer  Riithyn  mi  ai  rliotho 

113  y  liys  ap  Mred:   a  roesai  farch  i  abad  Uanegwesll,  ar 
march  a  ddaeth  i  adwedd  a  meirch  yr  abad  gydac  ef 
Pwy  biau  gwaed  pibau  gwia     ....  /) 

adu  a  roes  i  dir  ]fal 

115       Dyn  wyf  ymhurdan  Ofydd     ....  q 

am  fy  'mhoen  nef  im  henaid 

117       Serch  a  roes  ar  chwaer  E.syllt     ....  r 

farnu  myw  ne  farw'n  y  man 

119       Trem  ar  ferch  trwm  a  ro  fi     .     .     .     .  s 

forwyu  fyw  ne  farw'n  fuan 

121       Gofalu  heb  du  heb  dal     ....  t 

pan  fynnych  fydd  pen  f'einioes 

123  Y  ferch  hir  wen  farchwriol     ....  il 
gwae  fl  orfod  gwrthod  gwen 

124  Mar:  Dd:  ap  Edni: — ILaw  dduw  a  fu'n  Uadd  awen  ...        v 

roi  paradwys  ir  prydydd 


CYWYDDEU  T.   ALED,  I,.   MORGANNWG   ETC.  C37 

127  f  ofijn  Tarw  i  Sion  Conwij  dros  feu:  dd:  ILtvyd 

Os  da  walcli  oueat  i  wyr     ....  a 

rhodded  a  gofyuued  farch  Tudnr  Aled 

129  J  Domas  Pennant  Abad  dinas  Basing 

Pwy  abad  yn  dad  ond  ydyeh  Tomas     ....  b 

a  di  fyth  obaith  dy  fath  abad 

133  3Iol:  Dd:  ab  Owain  abad,  "  padriarch  Ystrad  Marchell" 
"  bugail  y  fair  bagl." 

Nid  balcli  nid  difalch  ond  dd:  abad     ....  c 

nid  balch  nid  difalch  neb  ond  Dafydd 
136       y  pen  yrhoed  pan  ar  hwn     ....  d 

gofyn  d'wr  ar  gefn  d'orwydd 

139       0  baud  iaeb  abad  a  wn     ....  e 

hwy'n  y  byd  natli  henw  bedydd 

142  31ol:  Margred  "  gim-aig  o  Loddaith  " 

Mewii  vn  Uys  rawy  non  holliaith  / 

mae  deg  gwledd  Madog  Cloddaith     .... 
gem  0  wraig  ar  Gymru  yw 

145  f  Sgr  Tomas  Salbri  o  Lywcni 

Pwy  cledd  dwy  Wynedd  a  diuas  dinbych     ....  g 

pren  sy  ganol  prins  Gwynedd 
Pages  151-60  are  blank. 

CyWYDDEV  AC  OdLEU  LeWYS  3I0RGJNNWG — pp.  161-234. 

Pages  161-214  are  direct  transcripts  from  Pen.   MS.  99,  pp.  331-6,  3GO-87, 
337-59,  216,  and  34,  which  see. 

215  Mol:  Harri  nil:  Y  tarw  or  Mwnt  eryr  Mon     ....        /; 
ir  llaw  ddeau'r  hoU  ddaear  L.  Morgnnnwg 

218  f  ofyn  march  i  Robert  ap  Rys  dros  Owen  aj}  Rys. 

Awn  attad  ith  wlad  ath  wledd     ....  i 

siars  byw  ap  Syr  Eys  i  bwyth 
Pages  220-9  are  transcripts  from  Pen.  MS.  100,  pp.  60,  57,  142  &  380  which  see. 
229       I'wy'r  cwythr  aeth  porth  yr  eg     .     .     .     .  k 

dy  ganmol  .  .  .  mas  Siebseid  Tomas  ap  Sion    .... 

cydwaed  dyu  cedwid  d'einioes 

232       Prynnaist  nef  prenn  ^essv  dy  nawdd     ....  I 

archaf  vn  arcli  yw  f'enaid 
Pages  235-40  are  b'auk. 


241  An  autograph  letter  of  Jane  Dauies,  widow  of  Dr.  Davies, 
dated  "  Mallwyd  this  19th  day  of  May  1645  "  and  addressed  "  To  my 
very  good  nephie  Ma"^  Robert  Vaughan  at  Hengwrt  this  flct:" 
Mrs,  Davies  writes  on  behalf  of  Mrs.  Pyrssell  to  "  knowe  what  will 
content  [Robert  Vaughan]  for  the  dietinge  of  her  sonne  and  his  man 
and  their  horses." 

On  the  back  of  this  letter  Eobt.  Vaughan  has  written  the  firist  lines  of 
1 1  compositions  by  Tudur  Aled,  contained  in  a  MS.  which  he  designates  "J" 
and  14  pieces  in  MS.  "  G"     [-=  Addl.  MS.  14971]. 

CrwYDDEu  AC  Odleu  Howel  Dd:  ap  Jevan  ap  Uys 
alias  Hvw  DAVi—pp.  243-391. 

243       Hardd  W.  hoj'w  vrddolwaed/.  llerbart.  .  arg:  Rhaglan  .  .  .m 
gair  gobaith  fanrhaith  a  fydd  .  /      IIo:  Dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rys 


638  PKNIABTH  MANUSCRIPTS   101-102. 

245       Anna  a  wnaeth  i  nyni     ....  a 

in  eneidiau  yn  enwedig  11.  Davi 

248       Os  byrr  oed  dydd  os  brud  hen     ....  h 

ef  a  ar  llafn  fy  iarll  hefyd 

251  Mol:  Ow  :  Dwnn  :  Y  gleisiad  mynwgl  assyr     ....  c 

gael  Duw  a  gweled  Owain 

253  J  IJn  .  .  carui  J.  .  .  o  Fisgin  .  .  cadw  ddoeth  o  Bencoed 

ILariaidd  farwniaidd  frynach     ....  d 

vfydd  yt  wyf  a  fydd  tau 

256  Mol:  Gr:  ap  Nicolas :  Wrth  ddechrau  am  swyddau  son  ...     e 
arwydd  i  don  o  wraidd  da 

258  J  ferch  :  Trymheais  oil  trlmis  haf    ....  / 

nim  tawr  pa  fan  y  tiriwyf 

260  J  Gwladus :  Breuddwydio'n  bur  ydd  ydwyf    ....  g 

gadwraeth  merch  ythopauK 

262  Awdl  i  For g an  ap  Tomas  ILwyd 

Einion  ab  Gwalchmai  fu  ai  anned  gynt    ...  h 

ai  garenydd  lij'd  Gaereinion  Howel  Dafi 

sef  Howel  davi  ap  ^euan  ap  liys  prydydd  o  Haglan. 
266  Mar:  Owain  \_?  ab  ffor']  ap  Rhys  o  Fochryd 

Hudol  angiriol  gerrynt  i 

Hael  iawn  oedd  hwyl  wenn  iddo. 

Pages  2G6-391  are  direct  transcripts  from  Pen.  MS.  99,  pp.  47-9,  and  388-517, 
which  see. 


MS.  102  =  Hen.  543.  Mediaeval  Poetry.  Paper  ;  7|  X  6  inches; 
48  pages,  imperfect  at  the  corners ;  in  the  autograph  of  Robert  Vaughan, 
Bewn. 

"  Allan  0  hen  lyfr  ar  fe\_mrwn\  " — Eiiglynion  Dttad . 

1       Bid  gogor  gan  iar  /  bid  trydar  gan  lew  k 

bid  ofal  ar  ai  car  /bid  ton  calon  iad  calar     .... 
bid  Iwm  rhos  bid  cost  kennin 

6  Gad  y  mwg  nac  amwg  /  ormodd  / 
na  chawdd  dduw  yngwydd  ei  olwg     .... 

ath  fydd  nawdd  rhag  gorchlawdd  gwynt 

7  llhagor  gwaneg  gwaeddgreg  tonn     ....  m 
dy  araitii  bid  teg  /  ni  thai  dim  dryg  gymraeg  . 

8  Kalan  gauaf  yw  henoeth  /  cul  ewig  elwig  rhygoeth  .  .  .  .  n 
yn  y  bo  dawn  y  bydd  dysg 

10  Cynnhywyll  arddu  achu  acharawr     ....  o 
ei  mab  ei  thad  ei  harglwydd 

1 1  Awdl  a  garit  Addaffras 

Cyfoethau'r  drindod  cyfoethau     ....  p 

adfydd  Saeson  taer  gwedy  tyrfau     (i.  le)— left  unfinished. 


17  Hirlas  Owcin :  Gwawr  pan  ddwyre  gawr  a  ddotet  ....  q 

yray  mae  gwelet  gwaranret  gwir ./  Owein  Cyveilyawc 

22   Y  Ow:  vychan  ap  Mad:  vah  Mred:  am  dyhyaw  arnaw 
ordderchu  y  wreig 
Os  hyn  vyddaf  naf  neirthyat  &c.       JT^'n  vardd  vab  Cyieryt  r 


MEDIAEVAL  POETRY.  639 

b.   Oddyna  y  dodes  Ow:  y  anvodd  ar  L'n  vardd  ac  y  cant  y?ileu 
yr  eglynion  dadolwch  hyn — wanting  the  middle 
Ny  hepcoraf  y  rwyf  hyt  Evfein  y  gwys     ....  a 

ny  hepcyr  gleissyat  glas  vor  .  IL'n  vardd 

26  "peth  o  riengert  Eva  uerch  Mad:  vap  M[_red:'\  ay  y  sydd  allan 
om  hen  lyfr  i  .  ac  a  gynhwysir  ynolaf  yny  oiodwl," 
Vyn  dewis  i  riein  verein  veindec     ....  b 

eithiw  am  eneit.  y  athwyf  yn  wan./  Cynddelw 

b.  Can  y  Tyssiliaio  S'  yw  hwn  syn  calhyn .     M.i .  S43-~ . 

Duw  dinac  dinas  tangnevedd     ....  o 

drevret  gwlat  waret  worthordyon  Cynddelw 

33  Kedivor  eur  goryf  o  argoed  pan  oedd     ....  d 
neut  gweryt  kyt  kediuor     M.i.  355                    IL'n  vardd 

34  Pam  nat  ystyr  y  parch  sydd  wyr  perchen  swyddeii  &c.  e 

35  [Pan]  yw  gwael  gwelet .  cynnwryf  cynniret     ....       / 
gan  vath  hen  gan  gofannon  .  gan  evfydd  gan  Elestron  . 

ry  gan  hymdeith  achwysson  blwyddyn  ynghaer  &c./ 

37   Gossymdeith  :  Golvt  byt  eyt  dydaw    ....  g 

cerennydd  dduw  a  hoedyl  liir  .  /  ILcfoed  loyneb  claivr* 

40  Proffwydolyaeth  yr  eryr  yghaer  Scpton\:  Megis  y  gwrthladd    h 
y  ddreig  wen  y  gocli,  felly  y  gwrthladd  wen  :    .   .  .  .  ends  :  Oddyna 
cyw  eryr  a  wna  y  nyth  yngorvchelder  cerrig  boll  Bryttaen  .  .  .  ac 
yna  ny  ddioddef  gogoneddvs  foleitrwydd  gynnic,  sarhaet  idJaw  ef,  yr 
hwn  a  ladd  ar  teyrnas  danguefeddvs  .  / 

47  jf  Tho:  New  Gwallter  Sais :  Y  barr  fal  vnmab  Vrien    ...        i 

^ddo  y  del  ar  wallt  melyn 

yr  oed  a  wna'r  du  yn  wynn  Bedo  Brivyntlys 

48  T  gwr  i  trig  ar  y  traeth  &c 4  lines,  left  unfinighed .  k 


MS.  103  =  Hen.  415.  Poetey.  Paper;  12|x8J inches;  94  pages 
— much  injured  especially  at  the  corners,  and  the  text  is  occasionally 
imperfect;  circa  1570;  in  several  hands;  sewn  in  an  old  vellum  —in  a 
portfolio  case. 

This  MS.  was  evidently  kept  at  Moelyrch  and  the  visiting  hards  inscribed  on 
the  margins  a  few  lines  in  praise  of  the  wyn  family.  The  following  names  occur  .• 
Lewys  Wyne  (^/  ^e.'),  moris  wynn  {J2  ^c),  Wim  wyn  (^41  and  09'),  Robart  wyn, 
olifyr  wyn,  howel  bedo  (SS)  Robart  Hughes  {51)  vel  Robart  ap  huyhe  (jJi)  fhomus 
ap  moris  win  (Si)  ;  Sir  Dd:  Uoyde  {69). 

1       [Dafydd  bjraffwjdd  [brofFwyd]     ....  I 

a  naeth  deiliadaeth  duw  lw[yd]     .... 
vw  rroi  yn  lie  yr  hen  llys  gutfo  or  gylyn 

3       Howel  ni  chysga  haiach     ....  m 

ni  chwarddaf  oni  cherddyf  ,,         „ 

5  Y  gwr  ar  war  y  gareg  &c.    (11.  i-s)  ,,         „      n 

6  er  pvnoedd  o  avr  penaeth  er  moliant    (i.  e.)  o 
moelyrch  .  .  .  inal  hen  avr  kner  sion  wyn                  Anon 

b.      gwr  draw  a  wyr  gyry  r  drin  ar  solas  &c,  p 

*  "Sef  vn  ■n-edi  eni  yn  ddall  megis  a  chlawr  ar  ei  olwc  ai  wyneb  .  medd  ,  dor; 
Dallies  .  o  vrycheiuoc .  "/    Cf.  K.  B.,  col.  1065. 

f  Very  imperfect— wanting  most  of  the  text,  " 


G40  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT  103. 

7  Nos  da  ir  fernos  dawel     ....  a 
iia  chysgwn  tra  f jddwn  fy w  .       Dd:  JLwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr: 

h,  2  Englyn^ .  ending  :  dasc  i  escob  dysc  wisci  It 

8  A  fragment  wanting  beginning  and  end — "  Hughe  grae".  .  .   c 

inae  chwerthin  ar  fin  y  ferch  a  gwenietli  ym  ag  anerch  .  .  . 
bvin  wr  ar  fainc  bvm  ryfalch  .  .  bvm  ir  gog  swyddog  &c. 

9  kreawdr  duw  oessawdr  dewissael  dvvyssoc    ....  d 
yn  llawen  seiliawdr  yn  llansilin         155§  .          Wm:  TLyn 

12  krist  iawn  ywf  tores  dvw  ncf     ....  e 
kan  nilhynedd  kyn  diwedd  doe.s         Morys  ap  ifan  ap  dd: 

13  Devbeth  a  red  drwy'r  gwledydd     ....  / 
o  dda  ymars  niddowyn  mwy                              gvttor  glyn 

14  Atteh  :  Svlien  ath  gattwo  syr  bened     ....  g 

am  wlau  degwm  yleni  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

15  Doe  ffrwynodd  duw  ffyrenv/r     ....  h 
fo  aeth  *«****#*                                      Lewys  mon 

IG       [Tristacli  yw]  kymry  trostyn  i 

[tre  a  gvvlad]  am  gvttor  glyn     .     .     .     .\ 
ny  adair  dydd  nevvydio'r  dwr  ||     (1.  36)        \_FJn  ap  Gntlyti] 

17  3Iar:  TUn  ap  Jeu:  ap  Howel  o  foelyrch 

swydd  y  wayn  svddai  enyd    ....  /; 

gwaed  twn  a  gatwo  i  enaid  IVm:  alaw 

19       Kyhelyn  ddewrwyn  ai  ddart  koed  eyriierth     ....         / 
pen  teirn  arthvr  pent  avr  nerthoc  Jhon  hnoynog 

23  pwy  oil  a  gair  pell  i  gyd     ....  m 
a  roer  ddwy  dorth  vrddedig                                     Sion  keri 

24  bron  *****  galon  gwn  gelv  bronav  &c.  Anon  n 
h.  ILys  ddafydd  llwyd  gwinwydd  gwaith  /  llys  fowredd  &c.  „  o 
c.       kanwaitli  vn  vanwaith  feinwych  11  w  blodav  &c.  „    ^j 

25  John  Wynn  eginyn  yn  gyrch  ai  dylwyth     ....  q 
moelyrch  .  .  .  koffav.r.  dawn  kaffo  aur  dorch    JVm:  llyn 

b.       portreiad  gwastad  a  gwedd  /  ag  aeliav  &c.  r 

26  *******  yn  foes     ....  s 
i  ti  owen  aed  dwoes  [sic]                                TViliam  Alaw 

Moliant  Morys  Wynn  o  foylyrch 

27  May  alarch  hardd  moylyrch  hen     ....  t 
gwr  da  sad  a  gardys  avr                   Morys  ab  iefan  ab  dd: 

28  Y  drogwn  llym  drwy  gan  llv     .     .     .     .  « 
**#yt  yn  iav  fon  evtvn  fawr  (i.  30)  || 

29  Ba  raid  tenwi  brytawaed     ,     ,     .     .  y 
evror  glog  or  war  ir  glin                             Dd:  ap  siangliin 

31  Hew  a  bar  kawr  lie  bor  kyrch     ....  jo 
kawn  dy  ddilid  dan  did  avr                                 ?  Wm:  llyn 

32  kodart  y  moelyrch  kayadwedd  yn  llawn  &c.  ,,  „  x 
b.       Eled  sion  ir  don  aurdyrch  ai  einioes  &c.  y 

33  f  GroesOswallt :  Af  ir  faendre  rvfeindravl     ....  s 

yvv  chadw  y  gyd  iechyd  ac  ocs  Tudiir  Aled 

35  Mol:  Dd:  o  Aber  tanad :  Af  ddvwsiil  foddvs  aelvvyd  ...       a 
o  goed  ta  fo  gad  twn  gvto  or  gylyn 


POETEY   BY   VARIOUS   AUTHORS.  641 

b.  Mol:  Elisav :  Pwy  n  vstvs  pena  ystod     .     .     .     ,  a 

kedwid  tuw  n  keidwad  [         ]    Morvs  a[p]  ifan  ap  enion 

37  Pwy  wlad  roddiad  reiddi     ....  b 
ni  bydd  hwynt  heb  weddi  y w  hoi .            Richart  ap  ho:  dd: 

38  Mae  pig  y  gwaiw  dig  dwys  Ac.  Anon  c 
b.  mercli  sion  digon  o  degwcli  ywr  golwg  &c.  „  d 
e,       kae  r  moelyrch  kynnyicli  lie  kenynt  plassav  „        e 

d.  trichwart  ywr  i  gadart  jw  godi  &c.  „      / 

e.  piirwenn  iaith  olwenti  ith  alwant  siriol  &c.  TFm:  llyn  g 

39  A  fragment:  ni  wyv  ni  welais  ni  wyl  ni  wrendy  &c.  li 

40  A  fragment  of  Y  Gwr  ar  warr  y  garreg  ending  :  i 

nid  y  pab  eithyr  mab  mair .  gvto  or  gyhjn 

41  brenin  diwarth  fv  arthvr     ....  k 
kan  oes  ir  ddav  ai  kynail                           Jevan  ap  gr:  leia 

43       Kadwan  trosolion  trwy  seliaw  y  drws  ....                  I 

kedwid  tvw  y  keidwaid  hyn  Howel  kilan 

46       Meddyliaid  am  eddoli     ....  m 

wrth  rraid  im  enaid  a  men  „         „ 

48  tros  bwU  i  rroddaf  tros  bant  tros  goedsvfydd  &c.  n 

dd:  ghjn  dyfrdicy 

b.  kodart  sy  moylyrch  nis  kodir  ag  vnllaw  &c.  Anon  o 

c.  dav  bias  dav  vrddas  dav  ion  |  dwy  ganaid     ...        j,       /' 
llys  ymodlith  .   .   .  kwrt  moylyrch  disdrych  y  don  .   .   . 
nhyn  fFordd  i  try  havl  „ 

49  Edwart  hir  adery  tan     ....  q 
yw  tarfv  dros  y  terfyn                                       Hoivel  Kilan 

51  Troe.s  lynges  lie  i  gorraesen     ....  r 
ir  Haw  ddeav  yr  holl  ddaiar                       Lewis  Morganwg 

52  mae  kvi-  adolvr  lleidaliwyd  dy  sercli     ....  .s 
Hawdd  fyd  iddi  gwenlli  gwyn                                        Anon 

53  Mawr  ywr  dysk  yno  maer  da     ...     .  t 
i  efeni  yr  rafinav                                               gvtlo  or  gylyn 

i     55  Atteb :  Eyfedd  ydiw  yr  arfeddyd     ....  u 

adaw  rrag  hir  drigaw  hwn  Ho:  ap  J  ap  dd:  ap  RyK 

58  y  ddevgar  foneddigion     ....  t, 
yrrain  fal  i  bv  r  hynaif                                       Hoivel  Mian 

59  anneiri  i  ddyn  roi  i  dda     ....  w 
ir  lie  yno  ir  llywenydd                                      syr  dd:  trefor 

60  nim  fawr  mwiach  trwy  ymowyd     ....  ^ 
a  duw  nef  yn  rroi  d#  nod                                  Hotcel  Mian 

63       Yr  arian  wych  ai  rroi  yn  wen     ....  y 

ni  bych  heb  a  gery  ch  gwen  Ho:  reinnaUt 

65       brevddwidio  obry  yddydwyf     ....  a 

ber  rron  oil  a  byr  hav  nydd  gr:  ap  J.  ap  lUn  vychan 

66  *Huw  dai  Rob:  ap  Jhon  llwyd  Wm:  penfro  Wm:  goch  gi'ythor 
WmfEre  grythor  morvs  grythor  tomas  grythor  o  gegidfa  a  Ho:  gethin  a  fv  gida 
myfi  yn  kylera  pau  oedd  yuedolig  ar  ddaw  gweiier 

Rys  Wyu  Wiliam  penllyu 

*  This  entry  is  apparently  in  the  autograph  of  Wiliam  renllyn. 


642  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   103. 

h.  ffoylyrch :  lie  kaf  groeso  daf  gras  y  dydd  a  nos  ...  a 

twr  llvwch  ar  tir  llechwedd 

V.       *Mae  arnai  o  renti  arglwydd  yng  hynlleth  yr  iaryll   .    .    .   xxv]'  vui''       6 
ag  yng  hynllaith  owaia         .  .  .  .  .        .       ix"     vi'' 

yn  y  ddwy  fi^nlleth  devgain  a  ffVm  ffloring  ond  keniog. 

d.  *Peder  ar  ddeggwauegdigoniantyrhaf  gwedirUfopymthegkant&c.  Amn    c 
67       Mae  vn  iarlles  mewn  evrllin     .     ,     .     ,  d 

tenaid  i  ywr  tvn  ai  dwg  D.  ap  Edmwnt 

G8       Y  gwr  mwia  i  gariad     ....  e 

dy  oe."!  yn  bvm  oes  y  bo  Ho:  kilan 

b.       rrowch  letty  er  iessv  mae  y &c.  Anon  f 

69  kynes  oedd  fod  ith  nesa     ....  g 
nid  wy  idyrist  oni  dai  dyraw                                Tvdur  aled 

70  orvchaf  groes  /  o  ddynawl  gynawd     ....  h 

Fa  ter  nosier  ag  afi  || 

71  diddim  erclii  y  mae  medd  y  proffwidi     ....  i 
iessv  er  i  bvm  gweli  yn  dwyn  i  bob  kyfelrri 

amen  patter  nosder  ac  afi  Anon 

b.       na  cliais  lywenydd  heb  wen     ....  k 

ac  o  gweli  unryw  ymrafael  dos  att  yranorav 

Ac  felly  y  tyrfyna  kynglioray  selefap  dd:  hroffwyd 

74    ILijma     gas    heihav     gwyr    rruddain    [sic]  :     breiiiu     heb   / 
ddoetliineb  ....  ends  :  a  doetb  heb  weithredoedd  dda  . 

b.  ILyma  brif  ddeieision  gwer  rrvdain  [sic]  :  i  vrenin  yn  gyfion/  m 
ai  farch  yn  fawr  ....  ends  :  ai  dduw  yn  drigaroc  . 

75  Duw  yn  tat  duw  yn  kenad  duv  yn  kynydd  &c.  n 
b.       Mawr  yw  kadair  y  ddaiar  mawr  yw  koedydd  byd  &c.    Anon  o 

76  Arglwydd  gwyn  hylwydd  gynheiliad  nes     ....  j) 
mewn  kvr  er  mwyn  ai  karef                                             „ 

b.       Wyneb  lliw  eira  vnos  gwen  fwyn     ....  q 

mor  hen  o  fachgen  wyfi  „ 

77  Doeth  yw  mab  ysbryd  a  thad     ....  r 
oryw  mair  ore  morwyn                                                          „ 

78  evraid  lew  traglcw  lie  i  treiglyn  /  y  gwyr  ko.  „       s 

b.  gwilied  bawb  bob  gwlad  i  boch  t 
OS  Uoer  las  y  llawr  a  wlych 

osgwynt  abair  i  lliw  sy  goch  /  vn  wen  sydd  yn  anian  sych  „ 

c.  Uevad  las  welw  delw  delynt  er  hyny  .  .  .  glybwr  &c.   „      n 

d.  llevad  yny  dwyrain  ar  gorllewin  lion  a   wna  llanw  v 

disgethrin  &c.  „ 

c.      Uvn  wyneb  sioseb  ai  siol  ai  grynfant  &c.  Jevan  tew  w 

79  vn  da  doeth  o  vynwes  duw  dad     ....  x 
a  gwledd  i  raab  arglwydd  amen                     dd:  ap  edmwnt 

81  Duw  kwympiodd  damheg  kampav     ....  y 
yn  fyw  ir  tir  nef  ir  tad 

82  Moelyrch :  He  hael  Uawengael  llowngyrch  lie  dedwydd  .  .      s 

S.  anihorys  .  .  .  ior  dewr  pvr  a  doro'r  pas 


*  These  entries  are  apparently  iu  the  autograph  of  Wiliam  Penllyn. 


FOETEY  BY  VARIOUS  AUTHORS.  643 

83       Y  modyrch  y  mae  elain     ....  a 

a  chowydde  keirch  iddo  deio  ap  ievan  hwl 

85  Plus  Moelyrch  :  Dav  bias  dav  gwmpas  digvdd  plwy  seliii  .  .    I) 
risiart  fab  morys  wyn 

87       ILyma  vyd  Uwm  i  fedydd     ....  c 

o  gwrs  y  byd  hyvryd  hardd  (I.  48) || 

89       II  profais  yn  rrwydd  arglwyddi     ....  d 

arof  im  kyfaill  o  ran  dogttor  John  kent 

91-5  An  imperfect  fragment  of  the   Moylyrch  Pedigree:  \\   mam 

dd:  llwyd  oedd  wevrvyl  &c plant  morys  wyn  or  ail  wraig  .  . 

Eigiart  wyn  John  Wyn  an  gwyn  ^sian  wen  &c.  &c. 

The  following  marginalia  occur  in  the  MS.  in  contemporary  and 
later  hands. 

7  Dau  Englyn — imperfect — ending ;  dase  i  escob  dysc  wisci               Anon  e 

9  An  Englyn  ending ;  •  »  ohwyru  moel  nych  arno     hevliarth  f 

10      (Pen  fo  ir  kerlyu  in  i  wely  .  .  .  yn  Rhi  dra  .  tan  garchar  *  ♦)   Anon  g 

16  Or  swyddav  diav  lie  i  devir  ir  byd  gore  y w  bod  yn  gowir  &c.            „  h 
b.      Or  plasav  Uannav  er  llennyreh  ac  aur  ...  i  mi  Wm :  hy dd  Moelyrch  i 

17  Kadwed  krist  ddidrist  ddav  oedran  foelyrch  &c.  k 

b.  Humblie  complayninge  sheweth  vnlo  your  honorable  lordship  your  dailie 
Orator  Dauld  ap  Wm:  that  wheras  your  Orator  father  was  in  his  lif  tymc 
LawfuUie  seased  by  her  demens  as  of  ffee  and  |  ande  of  one  masuage  or  Tenement 
and  one  hundreth  acres  of  land  or  ther  about.     See  also  pages  C9,  72,  76. 

18  &  19  Lewis  Winne  et  vxor,  Hughe  ap  Ric.  et  vxor,  Tho.  winne  et  vxor. 

b.  Hew  morvs  owchvs  o  iaehoedd  a  gradd  ...  / 

Rob:   Wynn  Roi  bort  winoedd  Anon 

c.  nid  y  w  rrai  difai  yn  dofi  ni  awn  &c.  "  Dd:  heme  dierth  "    m 
20      Twr  moylyrch  trwy  gynyrch  twr  a  gemyn  praff  &c.  Anon    n 

28  (J /oris  wyn:  karw  di  orwag  krib  derwen  o 

parn  alarch  ....  foelyrch  wen  Binald  dailiwr) 

b.      Gwyn  i  fyd  ryw  bryd  gar  bron  y  gwirddvw  &o.  p 

29  Dd;   arr  gynnydd  Egmynn  rrinwedd  .  .  .  aed  yr  vnoed  i  Reinallt        q 

30  Dvodd  a  rhewodd  y  rhin,  ar  foelyrch  ....  r 

Am  foris  hael  o  fro  hilin  Moris  ap  Jvan 

b.       Hiraeth  trwm  alacth  tra  mawr,  y  sydd  .  .  .  o  foelyrch  ftvwr    Gr:  ap  Gr:     s 

31  na  wna  ddyn  dy  hyn  anhyder  ar  dvw  &c.  Anon     t 
34       Moelyrch  dec  lennyrch  dai  glwys  //  Moliannvs  ....  u 

Voel  yrch  yn  di  ovalv  S.  Vychan  (auto:) 

36      Dav  mewn  hir  i  oes  a  groyswn  avr  win  llwyth  ....  y 

Moel  yrch  lie  porthir  miliwn  Aiwn 

38      pura  yw  dy  gorf  pryd  a  gwedd  .  ogyfin  &c.  „      «. 

44  Aeth  huw  gwynn  hirwynn  ddihareb  /  melwas  moelyrch  &c.  li.Kain    x 

45  mab  addas  mewn  gras  gwiw  rosyn  /  rrinwedd  ....  w 

mab  morys  wynn  ^non 

46  Llais  bythevaid  haid  da  yw  hyn  ....  z 

Rhyw  Gymraes  sydd  yn  rhwygo  ym  ron  „ 

b,      grawnwalwyd  graenwyd  gwir  anedd  glendid  ....  a 

twr  mawr  siwr  twr  Emrvs  waith  Moris  ap  Evan 

47  mesvrwyd  gweithwyd  mel  i  gwyr  milwr  ym  molvrch  &c.  Anon     b 

b,  kybyddion  dvon  yn  dywyrch  chwerwon  &c.  „         c 

c.  Or  ddaiar  bridil  gwar  braidd  go  i  doethom  ...  tl 

ni  wyr  dyn  war  awr  nar  dydd  „ 

48  kwpl  0  bias  fal  dinas  adweini  yw  moelyrch  &c.  Gr:  hiraethog    c 


c 


9 


6  4  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPTS   103-104. 

f).       plas  gwyeb  yw  moelyrch  plas  gwiw  y  golwg  &e.  Wm:  Llyn    a 

V.       Awn  yno  fyth  awn  yn  y  fan  i  fyrddio  &c.  James  Eyton     b 

d.  Jfronaynon:  lie  bv  goed  /r/  iocd  ar  hynt  yw  klvdo  &c.      Moris  wyii 
62       Dwl  a  ffirydd  a  fydd  y  kybydd  kali  yu  tyrrv  &c.  Anon     d 

53      Yr  ocs  ar  einioes  a  rauwn  ar  dwyneb  &c.  e 

h.       kefais  a  lewais  om  golvd  mawr  ....  / 

kollais  arbedais  i  or  byd  .  /  Liiclod 

c.      pam  i  gofvn  dyn  ond  ordeinio  dvw  A  diolch  am  dano  .... 

ni  wyr  dyn  a  fo  diwall  yn  Uwyr  mo  angen  y  Hall  Anon 

154       Myddilia  hynnv  medd  olwen  bi'yd  esvllt  bradwysedd  wallt  h 

feleu  &c.  „ 

b.  J  vercli ;  wylais  do  wylais  day  alwyn  yn  dol  &c.  Edd:  wyn     i 

c.  plethiad  koed  eliad  kev  /  r  /  dwylo  ara  ganol  &c.  ap  Edd:    k 

d.  k..  faith  k..  howaith  k..  kaiarn  k..  gydwaith  &c.  &o.  Anon    I 

e.  bron  Uyweuydd  brynlliniw  gwawd  adail  &c.    " maris  loyn  ynffrainke"    m 

5.5  Robart  ap  hughe  writes  to  his  "  Cousin  &  frinde  Dauide  lloyde " 
desiring  him  to  speak  to  someone  (not  named)  that  he  may  not  be  undone. 
26  March  1585. 

b.       myn  bade  temys  myn  bedwen  o  goed  myn  gwydderryd  ychen  &c.         n 

CO  Ty  difrec  naws  tec  nis  tyrr  chwechanllv  ...  o 

daw  miloedd  i  dy  moelyrch  W.  Kynwal  (auto:) 

b.  kryfdwr  kred  yw  /  r  /  twr  mewn  tyrch  o  hevyrn  &c.  „         „             ,,  p 

&i  mewn  kornel  mogel  iy  myn  drigo  &c.  Anon  q 

02  myrywyd  kwvr  liniwyd  kaer  lanwyr  foylyrch  &c.  „  r 

64  trugeinmis  ond  tevfis  &c.  /  s 

67  och  hwr  ni  ddweda  moi  chael  nis  galla  &c.  „  t 

b.      duw  ne  pvn  ore  pen  aer  i  gvrio  ...  ti 

sy  agywraig  well  no  siwgwr  gwyn  „ 

73       bv  i  vadoc  euwoc  .  hardd  gynyrch  /  dyfiant  dav  efell     ....  v 

mae  .  .  ymoelyrch  evelliaid  .  .  .  Uwydd  heb  ronyn  llai  vddynt 
no  fflaid  y  gefelliaid  gynt         [in  auto,  of  W.  Cynwal'}  Gr:  Hir: 

75       nid  sian  liw  eirian  nid  lowri  na  gwen  .  .  yngharad  yw  yng  hariad  i   !,v 

79      nid  melvs  moch  chwedle  ond  mil  &c.  x 

90      Addewid  terffid  yt  orffen  daddaw  ....  a  ddaw  hyth  addaw  i  ben      y 

b.      Byd  tiben  meinwen  pan  mynych  am  hyn  &c.  z 

per  mc  Joh:  Powell  scripsit 


MS.  104  =  Hen.  200.  Poetry.  Paper;  Hi  x  7^  inches; 
254  pages  (=  fols.  9-139)  interleaved  throughout;  w.anting  beginning, 
middle,  and  end,  and  the  text  is  often  imperfect ;  written  after  1624 
(p.  24)  and  before  1651  (p.  254)  ;  strongly  bound  in  full  marocco. 

The  following  names  occur  iu  the  book  :  Thomas  Roberts  (p.  79)  ;  Ellis  lloyde 
ct  Elizabeth  Owen  uxor  eius  1651  (pp.  14,  79,  and  254)  ;  Kad:  Vaughan,  1651 
(p.  14)  ;  Hugh  Hughes  of  Tre'r  Druid,  1697  (pp.  95-101);  David  Williams,  1706 
(pp.  57,  83,  1231;  William  Kerver  his  book  1700  (pp.  61,  135);  Johu  Lewis, 
1735  (pp.  91>  101>  10^)  i  ^^-  Roberts  Chirurgicus  (p.  131)  ;  John  Owen  of 
Penrhos  (p.  165). 

1-4  Mere  fragments  of  these  pages  remain. 

5  Mar:  Trist  yw  gwedd  g#  *  *  *  *  *       ....      a 

i  ninav  yn  /i/  nnnedd  Huw  Roberts 

11  Mar:  arglwyddcs — ;  Ami    yw    son   .ira    Iv  «  *  *  *  * 

i  lys  .  y  .  nefol  ]fessv  „         „         b 


tOETliY   BY   VARIOtfS   AUTHORS.  C45 

15  Mar:  Wm:  mob  Firs  Gr:  or  Penrhyn  ag  Ellys 
mab  Tho:  Prys  o  Bias  folyn 
Mae  anhap  yma  .  i  .  wyuedd     ....  a 

*  *  *  *  wres  i  fer  aseu  liuio  Roberts 

21   Marwnadeu    Stan  o  Vodeon  gwraig  TVm:  grvffvdd 

Hir  gwyu  ai  rhawg  /  i  /  wynedd     ....  b 

ddvw  y  sydd  heddiw  i  sian         .  162'^  .  Hvw  Machno 

24       Troea  dvw  boenav  trist  benyd     ....  c 

mae  hi  /n  /  Haw  dvw  /  mewn  lie  da  .  7(523.  R.  Kynwal 

29  Treth  faith  treth  uawaith  treth  newydd  treth  fawr  /  treth  d 

a  fynan  bevnydd 
trethav  fil  yn  /  i  /  gilidd  /  treth  ar  dreth  hyd  feth  a  f vdd 
Treth  bell  treth  gastell  treth  ged  treth  gadarn 

treth  i  gadw  dieithred 
treth  garis  treth  gowiried  treth  i  ladron  Icryfiou  kred     Robert  ap  Hugh 

30  PriddlawQ  ydiw  y  korfE  priddlyd     ....  e 
lieb  orffen  amen  mab  mair     Gr:  goch  ap  Jor:  ne  (S'.  Kent 

33       Anifir  wrtli  iawn  ofyu  /  nos  a  dydd  y\v  einioes  dyn   .  .  .    f 
nag  oflBs  mwy  nag  vffern  Thomas  Prys 

36  Ansyberwyd  bud  ir  dduu  bur  koiliwch     ....  g 
yn  fodlou  y  galou  gv                                                           Anon 

37  f  W.  Shlbri  or  Rvg  :  Wiliam  or  prif  vrddolwaed    .    .         .   h 

********i  gwedde  i  fod  John  Roger 

2>Q  f  S  Sion  Konwy  :  Y  gwr  anwyl  gair  inion     ...  i 

elom  /  i  /  ymgyfwrdd  oilwaith  ,,  „ 

41  ^  ddangos  hildring  a  fu  ar  wr  ar  y  mor 

Dylynais  di  wael  enyd     ....  k 

bei  a  ship  ^le  be  a  shepard  Tho^  Prys 

43  K.  yn  erhyn  y  sawl  oudd  yn  tori  y  gyfreth 

Duw  i  awn  enw  i  gadw  *yn  ynus     ....  I 

yn  eger  ai  pyrse  yn  [Pweigion]  Simwnt  fychan 

46  liho  duw  yr  galon  ddigUonbwyll     ....  tn 
wrth  fyngwawr  dduw  mawr  amen. 

47  (Y  llwybrau  ceingiau  y  call  ai  gwybydd  &c.     W.  Rowlands)  n 

Kyioyddeu  ir  keiliog  bronfraith 

48  Gwnevthym  oed  yn  y  koed  kav     ....  o 
dwys  maethdravl  yn  dy  smwytliuia     Rydderch  ap  Richard 

60  Y  keiliog  enwog  ynui     ....  ^j 
ir  fron  hynod  frenhinawl                                 Hugh  cowernioy 

52       Y  kiw  evrwisc  kowiriaith     ....  q 

ir  gaer  hon  ar  gwr  liynod  Hugh  Iteiriog 

55       Y  keiliog  ban  enwog  balcli     ....  r 

da  waith  hap  di  ath  hepil  Thomas  fychan 

68       ILyfodrelh  soweth  sudd  yn  pallv     ....  s 

fiut  anoyth  na  ffaid  dynion  Syr  Hugh  Roberts 

GO       Yr  wybrwynt  helynt  bylaw     ....  t 

debre  yn  nes  da  wybren  wyd  Dd:  ap  Gwiliin 

61  Milwr  /a/  gar  raolir  gwydd  u 
merch  /  a  /  chwn  meirch  /  a  /   chynydd     .... 

kael  evror  bwlkley  avail  Gvtor  glyn 


64)8  PENIARTH   MANUSCIUPT   104. 

63  J  ofun  mini  meline  i  Rvs  ap  lluwelim  ag  i  Rvs  ap  J.  ap  Res. 

Dewrioii  i  doeth  driiw  yn  dan     ....  a 

gyra  i  long  i  gario  yr  llwyth  Owen  ap  S.  up  Eys 

65  Y  Seren  :  Am  i  lliw  i  may  llawer     ....  b 

ag  er  k*bv  yr  kwbwl  er  gorfod  Gr:  lloyd 

66  f  Ifan  Driom :  Y  dyn  a  garcharodj  i  dad     ....  c 

digoer  daith  a /dago  r/dyn  {Robt.  ap  Rhces  fVynn) 

69  Mai-:  S^'  0.  ap  gwilim :  Trwm  ar  ia  yw  tramwy  /r/  od  .  .    d 
i  trig  addysc  tragwyddawl  Wm:  Ikjn 

71  Dydd  da  ir  saesnes  gyffes  gain     ....  e 
i  dudur  ai  nad  ydwyd                                     Tvdvr  Penllyn 

72  Wrth  ddarllan  koelfan  kelfudd     ....  / 
gwa  edrwyg  bron  ith  kadw  rhag  brad              John  Tvdur 

75  Jach  gras  y  frenines  :  Elizabeth  V3  hary  viii  &c.  g 

76  (Mynegwch  gyhoiddwch  guiownedd  &c.        JVm:  Roland)  h 

77  Travtirieth  y  powdwr  : 

Dvw  yr  amerawdr  kreawdwr  kred     ....  i 

ar  mawl  ar  power  amen.  &"<'  Hugh  Roberts 

79       Wrth  weled  flincd  dwyn  aflonvdd  gvr     ....  h 

ir  rwy  finav  yn  rhoi  fenaid  „  ,, 

81  jf  S.  ap  s    W.  poivel  alias  y  haili  dv  am  i  galled 

am  farged fwyn :  Fob  enwog  swyddog  sudd       .     .     ,     .      / 
oi  flaen  ue  riw  felinidd.  ,,  „ 

83       Moes  gisan  y  fin  finferch     ....  m 

pa  les  may  yr  neges  yn  ol  Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

b.  f  ofvn  mortuari  Syr  Thomas  goch  ai-  gwr  yn  fyio 

Y  gwr  vrddol  geirwir  ddasc     ....  n 

He  braw  fvnd  llwybyr  y  fendith  Sion  Tvdur 

86  (Dyl)vs  hastrus  a  rwystra  kellwair  &o.)  o 
6.  (Nud  diflas  nud  cas  oud  cegrys  Tvr  digUon  &c.)  p 
e,       (Mae  yr  iaohau  gore  mor  grycli  drwy  gilidd  &c.)                                  q 

87  Mar:  Elis  I'rice :  Torwyd  om  perllan  tayrwaith     ...         r 

I  i  /  Ivs  y  nefol  ^esv  Thomas  Prys 

89  (Oni  bydd  byd  iliydd  yn  rhwyddo  i  ddyn  Ni  wiw  iddo  moi  geisio      s 
Ehaid  i  ddyn  rodio  ynddo  A  chymryd  y  byd  fal  y  bo.) 

90  f  meddwyr  :  Wrth  roddio  myder  weithredwr     ....  t 

keisiwn  nef  man  kyson  oedd  Sionffylip 

92       Serch  /  a  /  rois  ar  chwayr  Essyllt     ....  u 

farnv  mwy  ne  farw  yn  y  man  Tudvr  Aled 

£'4       Dis  yw  yr  bud  os  arbedwn     ....  v 

ar  dda  mwy  ond  ar  dduw  mawr  Sion  Tudvr 

96  Bwriwyd  help  ar  y  brut  hyn     ....  to 
bid  ar  yn  bedeir  enioes                                       Tudvr  Aled 

97  Y  kwrw  rhudd  kar  yr  hidden     ....  * 
a  thatarn  ddiffaith  hefvd                               Richard  Phylip 

100  Yr  eglur  bavn  ar  glaverbais     ....  y 
a  dwg  wen  o  dv  /  i  /  gwr                                 Dd:  Nanmor 

101  Madvn  ronwyn  rv  enwir     ....  i 
am  wen  yno  ymwanwn                                 Rhys  goch  or  yri 


POETRY   BY   VAUIOUS   AUTHORS.  647 

102      Y  fvn  vchaf  o  fonedd     ....  a 

ynill  y  glocli  yng  wynedd  Hugh  Roberts,  lien 

105  Rhwydd  y  gwin  rhydeg  yner     ....  b 
i  pwyth  i  ti  petliav  teg                         liynerig  ap  dd:  goch 

106  Jfor  ydwyd  oi  frodavr     ....  c 
j  i  /  dv  ifor  hael  /  i  /  daw                        Dauidd  aj}  gwilini 

108  J  Hugh  Ednyfed  :  Y  kelfvdd  brydydd  bradon     ....        d 

wb*  *  «  »  wst  /i  /  babistiaid  Sion  Roger 

109  Ateb  :  Dechrevaf  gweyaf  gowydd     ....  e 

dan  y  bwrdd  /  a  /  dyna  ben  Hugh  Ednyfed 

111  Ni  allaf  nid  af  o  dy     .     .     .     .  / 
plwin  yw  ar  glog  pie  may  yr  glaw              Dd;  ap  gwilim 

112  fr  Eiddiges ;  Mawr  genym  avvr  ag  envd     ....  g 

/i/  bwru  ai  dyko  i\v  bodd  Gr:  Hiraethog 

113  Nos  da  ir  ervr  naws  dewrwalch     ....  h 
i  euddaw  eiddig  arall                                           Hugh  Lewis 

116  fofvnkeiliog:  Herod  wyf  hoewrod  afael     ....  /' 

egni  Hew  roi  kiu  Hied  Gr:  Hiraethog 

118  J  Von:  Nos  da  ir  ynvs  dowyH     ....  k 

a  dav  enioes  iw  dynion  Lewis  Glyn  Kothi 

119  J  fflint  ai  saeson :  Doytbvm  ddywsvl  diwaythaf     .     .     .     .      I 

iddi  eihvaith  na  ddelwyf  7'vdvr  Penllyn 

120  f  ojvn  gwalch  :  Pwy  /  a  /  ran  gwayd  vpren  gwin    ....     m 

amgylch  havl  am  y  gwalch  Ewn  Tudur  Aled 

122  f  Tomas  tnostin  i  ofvn  tario  dros  Edw:  gicynn 

*  *  irdrefaig  .  1600:  Y  llowydd  mawr  gailvog     .     .     .      n 
yr  hvdd  av*  *  «  *    rhodd  oi  werth      Hugh  Roberts,  lien 

125  Dychan  yr  nodav :  Duw  sy  evrglod  da  farglwydd  ....         o 
ym  y  uhal  am  y  nhylwyfch     Jfan  Gethin  ap  Jen:  ne  IVn  Vn. 

127  J  ojvn  garanne  eryr :  Ti  yw  /r/  wal  nis  toray  wyr  .  .  .    ^j 
rhiw  diawl  el  ar  rbodd  eilwaitli  Gr:  ap  dd:  ap  Ho. 

129  J  JVenfrewy :  Y  ferch  wen  fvr  ychwaneg     ....  n 

y  gorffeno  gayr  fiynon  Tudur  Aled 

131  Kystydd :  ILyma  yr  bawl  He  may  rliaid     ....  r 

ing  ar  hynt  /  i  /  anger  hen  Lewis  Glyn  Cothi 

132  Meddwdod :  Nid  byrddiaw  Hei  daw  vn  dydd     ....         « 

a/fydd  ir  sawl  /a/  feddwo  ,,  „ 

133  J S.  Lewis  Owenyn  yr  ysteddfod  j a  j  fy  yng  ayrwys.    1.':6^ 

Glain  gwisv  arwydd  glan  geirwir     ....  t 

ir  did  fon  ar  dayed  fo  Owen  Gwynedd 

135  jf  Sionffylip  :  Y  biog  rowiog  riol     ....  u 

na  ddeled  /  i  /  ymweled  mwy  Sion  Tydur 

137  Ateh  :  Yr  edn  flin  ar  adain  flaeiiwen     ....  v 

ymwelaf  yma  eihvaith  Sionffylip 

140  Ateb :  Y  bi  wrth  fol  y  berth  fwyn     ....  w 

tro  ir  min  at  wr  or  mynydd  Sion  Tudur 

142  Ateh  :  Y  kiw  kaHddadl  cwcyH  ddv     ....  x 

arfer  min  arf  or  mynydd  Sion  ffylip 

144   Ateb  :  Nos  da  ir  frithglog  biogen     ....  y 

ddewipgwbl  ir  arglwydd  esgob  Sion  Tvdyr 


648  peMiarth  manuscript  104. 

146  Ateb  :  Pa  vn  liw  y  pen  lovn     ....  a 

■vvtres  win  tros  /  i  /  enaid  Sionffylip 

148       fy  rhiaiti  pen  wrliavycli     ....  b 

oni  chi  a  fynech  wen  Ho:  Rinallt 

150  Y  fvn  siriol  ail  olwen     ....  c 
och  datod  fyw  hyd  eto                                        person  peris 

151  Trvan  ir  ddyllvan  deg     ....  d 
ith  nawdd  a  duw  ith  noddi                           Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

152  Y  ddav  fab  nid  addefwn     ....  e 
er  mair  par  badair  amen                              Rhys  goch  or  yri 

154  Or  Syrfafen  ith  henwyt     ....  / 
a  /  chael  nef  dyn  wych  Ian  wyd              feu:  dew  brydydd^ 

155  (Ces  botas  cynas  im  cinio  y  bora  a  bara  gvvyn  ynddo  &c.)  g 

156  'nol  colli' r  ffordd :    Triata  dim  y  troes  dai  chwaith     .     .     .    h 

disgin  yn  firom  mewn  tomen 

di  ras  y  mliwyll  dros  y  mhen 

ni  sefais  Uithrais  yn  lion 

o  riw  ofid  ir  afon     .... 

bvm  siaplen  yno  euyd 

i  anwn  ai  gwn  i  /  gyd     .... 

y  fatli  ddolvr  fyth  eiiwaitli  Roger  davies 

157  Kwrs  ifaulc  kerais  hoywfercli     ....  i 
gelyn  fydd  ir  galou  fav                                     "  Ai  karodd" 

158  Y  Haw  a  dorodd  y  llwyn     ....  k 
yn  Ilyn  am  dori  /  r  /  glyn  glas                        Thomas  Price 

159  Dy  di  ddyn  sy  gar  fy  Haw     ....  I 
mi  a  cbwi  iach  a  /  awn                                 Hvh  (sic)  ILoyd 

IGl       Gwae  ni  yr  beirdd  gen  air  y  byd     ....  m 

mwy  /o/  avr  siwrl  y  mhwrs  sion  John  Tvdur 

163       Gvvrendewch  chwi  ar  gynghorion     ....  n 

i  goffa  ^esv  mi  gyffesais  Sion  Mowddwy 

1G6  _f  ofyn   R.  grythor  :  Y  bardd  iowndrefn  bwrdd  windrayl  .  .  o 
Rhes  yn  wr  brys  yn  hop  y  rhod  William  kynwal 

167  J  roi  R.  Grythor  :  Y  bardd  gwyn  ebrwydd  ganiad     .     .     .   p 
i  /  gid  y  rbol'  gida  Rhys  Sion  Tvdyr 

160  jl  chwaryddion  cardie  :  Wrth  weled  aryth  ddylyu      .     .     .     q 

ar  /  i  /  dyll  a  /  wario  i  /  da.  S''  Rotcher  dauis 

171       Hil  brvtvs  fab  svlus  britaniad  brythoenvs     ....  r 

a  chofio  am  yn  kyfri  kjfing  Vicar  ILanymddyfri 

176       Tra  felys  serch  trafael  syn     ....  s 

farw  yn  ddichwerw  oi  chariad  dd:  lloyd 

\Tl       Myfvr  ir  wy  yn  amofyn     ....  t 

gida  mair  /  i  /  gid  amen  Doktor  sion  kempt 

179  yr  hjfell :  ILyma  fyd  Uawn  /  o  /  fedydd     ....  u 

aro  im  kyfell  oran  „  „ 

181  jf  ddangos  i  feie  i  hvn  :  Myddylio  am  addoli     ....  v 

wrth  raid  im  enaid  amen  „  „ 

182  J  goch  y  pwyts  ag  ynte  wedi  mariv 

Mai  mvdrwr  yw  ym  edrych     ....  lo 

a  dygia  yng  wlad  tegengl  oil  Gr:  Iliraelhog 


t>OEMS   BY   VARIOUS  AUTHOES. 


G49 


Sioti  Brimjnog 


Sioii  Bnoynog 
Roger  Davis 
Roger  hyffin 


Ai  Jiarodd  aik. 


Sion  Tvdvr 


Morgan  ap  Hugh 


Sion  Tvdyr 

Ro:  ap  Hugh 

Sion  Tvdvr 

Robt:  Klidro 

dd:  ap  Edmwtid 

D.  ap  Gtvilim 

Anon 

Roger  Davies 

Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

Rob:  Klidro 


Gr:  HiraetKog 
Marys  ap~ 


k 


184  Ateb:  Mae  gwr  yn  magv  araitb     .     ,     , 
gwelwch  yn  dwyn  y  galen 

186  Ateh  :  Gwuayth  gwr  ym  gweniath  garwn  ....  b 

drop  ffl  wim  d[a]wr  pwy  ffo  \_Gr:  Hiraethog'] 

188  Ateb:  Drwg  /i/  neb  fel  draig  /o/  nant  . 
kar  duw  grypul  kyr  dy  grapaf 

190  Y XV arieydd  :  Wrtli  weled  y  rhyfeddodef 

ore  ddewid  ar  adawodd 

191  y  gisan :  Kefais  gan  ddvn  gwrtajs  gall     . 

awen  fwyn  yn  fenioes 

193       Y  f^n  deg  wedd  fain  dw  gwj'cli     .     .     . 
ddyn  hoff  hevl  y  rhoi  yn  iach  fyrhian 

195  J  ofvn  gwn  :  T  kawr  ifank  araf  wych     .     . 
dra  fo  gwn  wrtli  dref  a  gwal 

197  7  henaint :  Y  dvn  fal  blodevn  /  i  /  daw 
i  fab  duw  maddeyw  mi 

199  J ysheff porthaethwy :  Y  fferi  fawr/i/ffair  fon     .     .     . 

porth  Jesv  ir  porth  ysion  S''  Dd:  Trevor 

201  Jr  hyhydd :  Mae  vn  ai  barch  mcwu  y  byd 

drwy  bawb  ag  fo  mendia  yr  byd 
203  Am  ladd  llwynog  :  Dewcli  y  nes  gwmpeini 

o  ddoedyd  y  kwbwl  fed  ddyle  gael  y  kebyst 

205       fyngwinevfarch  fwng  nvyfvs     .... 
yn  kynal  ar  Ian  konwy 

207  kamolieth  Howel  ap  Madog  or  mwynglawdd 

Mae  gwr  fal  mil  /  o  /  gowri     ,     .     .     , 
a  /  dwy  fil  wedi  dydd  farn 

208  Dyn  wyf  yn  kerdded  y  nos     .... 
dyn  deg  wyd  nawdd  yn  dy  gylch 

209  Eychan  oedd  gan  ddiaiiis     .     .     . 
oed  oedd  ffals  bob  dydd  oi  ffen 

h.       Kerais  dan  livg  /  o  /  evrnel 
er  cael  uef  ar  ol  fy  mvn 

210  Pa  eira  pwy  /a/  ery     .... 
.Tr  y  mnes  mar  eira  mwy 

211  Dydd-da  it  fy  rhagor  forwyn     .     . 
yn  was  doeth  ond  /  i  /  stwytbo 

213  J  ofvn  milgi :  Mi  wn  glod  /i/  berson  glan 

melinav  kaer  am  y  ki 

214  A  fragment  of  a  cyivydd  ar  y  Pader. 

215  Dychan  ir  hadach  loyneb 

ILe  /  i  /  gwn  gael  oil  /  i  /  gan  gwlad 
nea  /  i  /  fod  yn  safadwy 

216  Y  dabler  yn"/i/  dyblig     .... 
i  ffwyth  er  kael  /i  /  ffoethi 

217  Vnglynion  afv  rhwng  Sion  Roger  a  Hugh  Ednyved* 

koffad  sein  brad  sion  brydudd  golwg     ....  v 

keiff  wybod  /  i  /  fod  ar  fai  hugh  ednyfed 

"  The  pages  containing  the  englyniou  are  discoloured,  tie  ink  is  faint,  and  the 
margins  are  rubbed,  torn,  and  curled  so  that  much  of  the  -wiiting  is  hardly  legible. 
The  subject  treated  does  not  tend  to  edification. 

y  98430.  Z 


650 


I'ENIARTH  MANUSCEIM   104. 


flwiulv  yr  gerdtl  fl**nged(l  iilcingi  doydv 
weled  K  *  *  T  foel  a-r  hoelen 


Sion  Roqer 


*  &c.  &c. 


b. 


222 


223 


Hugh  Ednyfed 
fVm:  Kynival 
Thomas  Price 
Roger  Kyffin 


d 


f 


9 


h 


Tudur  Penllyn 
Jolo  goch 


218       Er  dy  drafferth  serth  ***** 

220       Sion  Roger  chwerwder  chwimp 
*  *  Hi  am  wir  ynill  maes 

Kyffesv  ir  ifesv  ner  oesoedd  ir  wyf     . 
ef  /  a  /  dewisaf  dehav  ^esv 

Y  chwanen  bach  inion  bvr     .... 
er  vu  mab  y  gwr  an  medd 

A  mi  ddoe  am  addewid     .... 
nld  hwyrach  ffyr  o 

225  fferch  eiddig  :  Mi  gefais  im  gyfoeth     . 
fvth  ddilid  y  fatli  ddelwav 

22G       Mae  gwr  byth  am  gowir  barn     .     .     . 
i  /  ffwrn  /  o  /  fown  vfEeru  faith 

227  Kowydd  diwiol :  Gwyn  i  fvd  er  gwnfydv 

A  maddav  fy  mhechod  meddwl 

228  A  fragment  {6  lines):  ]Lyma  fvd  kvd  kadarn  &c.  k 

229  Bvstl  y  bvd :  Agor  nef  wrth  lef  araith  lafar  [dwys]  ...        I 

knokiwn  nev  gvrwii  ini  agorir  [<Sio«  Tiidm"] 

231  Dvdd  da  ir  fwyna  ar  a  fv     .     .     .     .  m 
tros  i  bod  deiroes  heb  wr                                  Gr:  ap  Jtuan 

232  Jr  daran  ;  J  niae  gair  im  o  gariad     ....  n 

am  ysgar  meinwar  /a/  mi  Hugh  Robert 

233  jf  Scipio  gwilim  drwyngam,  am  i  wrolieth  yn  y  fattel  yn 

sir  foil :  Sonier  gwyllt  gryfder  gwal]grvch  mal  ervr  ...      o 
am  dano  Sibio  mae  son  WatMn  klyicedog 

235  Jr  farf  fer :  Yi'^^v  I  prvd  hwn  ir  oeddwn  i 
ym  garv  mi  ag  evron 

Yr  hobi  a/  ddiarhebwyd     .... 
garw  drwat  er  a  /  gaer  drosto 

Gwaer  vndvn  heb  gowreindab     .     .     . 
garv  mab  yn  gowir  mwy 

239  Jr  hardwyr  ag  i  /  oganvr  arddwyr 

Y  gwyr  a  /  wnai  yr  gaer  yn  well  .     . 
i  /  chwi  arian  /  i  /  chwarav 

240  Atieb  :  Duw  a  /  weryd  /  i  /  wyrion 

yn  ardwyr  hwyr  yn  wyrda 

241  Mal  ir  oeddwn  gwyddwn  gvr     .... 
kefn  gweilgi  kafnav  gwaelgoed 

243  J  dd:  ap  Jenkin  dd:  krach  pan  oedd  ar  herio  yng 

hareg  y  gwalch :  kan  nos  da  it  kynes  dadail     .... 
a  thro  tra  mynych  a  thrig  Gr:  ap  kynfrig 

245  Deliais  o/  glwy  /a/  dolvr     .     .     . 
pren  per  yr  haelder  ai  rhoes 

246  Atteh:  Gytyn  or  glyn  /a/  fv  glaf    . 

iw  roi  i  /  arall  y  rowron 

247  Atteb  :  Gwae  a/  gynhaliodd  /i/  gyd 

dan  /  i  /  gist  a/  dwyn  i/  gan 


236 


238 


Gr 


Jolo  goch 

Sion  mowddwy 

Sion    Tudvr 

Sion  ap  Hovel 

:  ap  ll'n  vychan 

Jthel  ddv 


Gutor  glun 
Syr  Rys 


P 


Gutor  glun 


y 


CORNISH   DRAMA,   TROILUS   &   CliESSIDA,   ETC.  651 

248       Da  mewn  kvff  dewi  myniw     ....  a 

arched  ben  erchiad  y  bvd  JLywelvn 

251       Gwrandewch  ychidig  bach  o  frvd     ....  6 

ni  thai  ir  bvd  wybodaeth  Jo:  ap  Hugh  o  fodxbigan 

253-4  The  outer  tliiid  of   tliis  leiif  is  gone  and  tlie  edges  arc  frayed.     On  the 
vellum  cover  are  written  a  series  of  pious  englynion. 


MS.  105  =  Hen.  310.  Oedinale  de  vita  Sancti  Mekeadoci 
Episcopi  et  Confessoris,  being  a  Cornish  Drama.  Paper;  about 
8f  X  6  inches ;  180  pages  ;  written  in  160 1  by  Dominus  Nad  Ton ;  in 
old  leather  binding. 

1  Paler  Mereadocl  pompahit  hie 

Me  yvv  gylwys  duk  brjften  :  ha  seuys  agoys  ryell  c 

ha  w'  an  gwlasc2«-  chefte  j  nessa  3en  myterne  vhell 

Kyg  Conany 
aye  lynyeth  purwyr  y  thof 

gwarthevyas  w"^  gvyls  ha  dof  doutt*  y  niysk  arly5y  .... 
Pyboryon  wethup-h  in  ston  1  ,,     , 

nyavyn  ketep  map  bron      |  "^^ys  thedonsya 
Eugh  bo  tregueh  1  ,        „  .,        _     , 

wolcii  vethugh       j'^y"  fewysythe  oma/ 

_  The  above  Drama  was  edited  and  translated  by  Mr.  Whitley  Stokes,  and  pub- 
lished by  Triibner  &  Co.  (London)  in  1872.  Mr,  Stokes  gives  the  writer's  name  as 
tfadton,'_but  we  can  find  no  other  instance  of  a  capital  H  with  a  dot  in  the  middle 
of  it,  whereas  the  capital  N  has  always  such  a  dot :  though  the  formation  of  the 
letter  differs  from  that  of  both  N  and  H  in  the  text,  still  it  is  move,  like  the  former 
than  the  latter. 


MS.  106  =  Hen.  338.  "Teoilus  and  Cressjda,  a  Welsli  Inter- 
lude."-^  Paper  ;  9x7  inches;  232  pages  in  the  nntograph  of  John 
Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy — pp.  1-135  were  written  before  February  I4th 
1613  (p.  119)  ;  and  the  remainder  of  the  MS.,  with  the  same  change  in 
orthography  and  ink  as  in  MS.  112,  was  written  during  the  year  1622 
("pp.  160  and  231) ;  repaired  towards  the  end;  half  bound. 

This  Interlude  is  divided  into  V  bocks  like  Troilus  and  Criseijde  in 
Chaucer,  from  whom  the  opening  lines  are  certainly  translated.  But 
all  the  rest  seems,  from  a  brief  inspection,  to  be  such  a  free  jjaraphrase 
that  it  is  not  easy  to  detect  anj^thing  approaching  a  translation.  It 
begins : 

Chwchwi  raaysol  gwmpeini  yr  achos  o'm  dyfodiad  yma  :     d 
ydyw  y  ddangos  pr,yddder  mab  brenin  Troya  .  / 
Y  modd  i  dygodd  hirnych  kariad  a  thrymder 
ar  modd  i  trodd  hynn  i  lywenydd,  ai  lywenydd  i  bryddder  / 
Helpia  Tisiphone  myfi  sy  /n/  trevthv  hynn  drosto 
bvchedd  hwnn  a  wnaeth,  1  lawer  glanddyn  wylo  .  /    .  .  . 
.  Cucui  rinw:edol  a  glan  fereed  bonedigion 
byduC  bob  amser  ir  neb  y  byduc  yn  ffydlon 
atkoffeuc  Kressyd  yn  fynyc  ic  medyliau 
ac  na  wneuc  ap  ijowirdeb  na  ffalster  ic  kariadau 
oc  glendid  oc  tegue  na  wneuc  ormod  deunyd 

z  2 


G52  peniabTh  MANifscRir'TS  106-108, 

eye  piyd  eye  gwed  eye  glendyd  ar  droyad  lau  a  clorfyd 
o  guneuc  yr  hynn  gore  gadeiic  ofer  gariad  i  gadu 
a  dygiic  gariad  fiydlon  ir  gur  vu  drossoc  vara 

231    Acfal  hynn  y  terfyna  y  I  3  j  Lyfr  ar  diwaethaf  or  hanes 
honn  y  :  S  :  dyd  o  fis  Hydfrefoet  krist  /  1622  j 


MS.  107  — Hen.  201.  A  Transcript  of  the  Black  Book  of  Cau- 
MAKTHEN  by  Robert  Vaughan  of  Hengwrt.  Vellum  ;  9  J  x  6|  inches  ; 
48  pages  (p.  1-2,  43-8  are  blank)  ;  half  bound.         E.  Libris  Gr:  Roberts 

This  MS.  is  beautifully  written  in  imitation  of  the  original,  and  the 
contents  correspond  in  all  repects.     See  Pen:  MS.  1  above. 


MS.  108  =  Hen.  447.  Poetry.  Paper;  I  Of  x  8  inches;  70  pages 
slightly  trimmed,  repaired  and  sewn  in  paper  covers;  circa  1625-40; 
in  a  port-folio  case. 

This  MS.  belonged  at  one  time  to  the  Sebright  collection,  as  attested  by  the  seal 
on  p.  1,  and  its  number  in  that  collection  was  W2.  The  MS.  is  now  a  mere  fragment, 
as  the  numbering  of  the  pQeras  by  the  scribe  shows,  and  the  order  of  tlie  pages 
should  be  ♦  49-70  *  1-28  *  29-48  *.  What  is  at  present  p.  48  was  once  p.  iS3. 
Jt  is  not  clear  whether  the  numbers  at  the  ends  of  the  poems  refer  to  some  other 
MS.  or  to  a  rearrangement  of  this. 

1       II  Perigl  rhyfel  rhywelwu     ....  a 

eiriach  i-  dda  i  arall  D>'  Sion  y  Cent 

3  Jr  hyd — 31 :  Vn  fodd  yw'r  byd  cyngyd  eel     ...     ,  b 

hiid  a  lliw  nid  gwiw  yn  gwaith :  /  p5  /  „         „ 

6  J  Dduw — 32  :  Credaf  i  naf  o  nefoedd     ....  c 

a  mair  ag  nid  rhaid  y'n  mwy  Dd:  ap  Gwilim 

C  jf'r  Drindod — 33  :  Y  drindod  heb  dylodi     ....  d 

yn  dwyn  oil  pob  dyn  i  nef .  /     9^  „  „ 

7  Vpwrs — S^:  Ty  di  amner  tew  dwymnyth     ....  e 

y  graig  rhugofn  dy  grogi .  /     P7  -2>'«  mod  pantri 

9   Y fron  freith — 3S  :  Y  ceiliog  serchog  i  son     ....  / 

adrodd  a  ganodd  o  gerdd  .  /     p§  Dd:  ap   Gwilim 

10  fr  wylan — 36 :   Yr  wylan  deg  ar  Lanw  dioer     ....       g 

fy  nihenydd  fydd  y  ferch 

11  jfr  seren — 37;  Bendith  ar  enw  'r  creawdner     ....  h 

f  gysgod  wybr  i  gysgii  .  /     pp 

12  J  Jfor  hael — 38  :  Da  y  rhed  ar  waered  arw  oror  /  olwyn  .  .     / 

Hwy  liyawdl  ofwy  fo  hoedl  iffor  .  /     100 

14  fr  rhughgroen — 39 :  Pal  i  roeddwn  fawl  rwyddaf    ....    A 

A  men  a  wlltiodd  fy  niin  .     101  . 

15  f'r  cleddyf — Ifi  :  Ehyhir  wyt  ar  y  gyflun     ....  I 

calon  serchog  syber  sydd     102  . 

17  Y  drych — ^1 :  Ni  thybiais  ddewrdrais  ddirdra     .     ,     .     ,     m 

Yno  gwys  difwyno  gwcdd  .  /     705  . 

18  y  Jfn/A«7/— ^2  .■  O  fritbyll  fyfyr  iaithydd     ....  n 

dwg  yni  chwedl  da  genyd     10^  , 


POEMS   BY  D.   AP  GWILIM   &   OTHERS.  653 

19  >  hqf—43 :  Gwae  fl  hil  aiddil  Addaf    ....  a 

OS  gyr  mor  rhyfyr  ywr  haf./     105  .  D.  ap  Gwilim 

21  /»•  c/aijaf—^/f :  A  fu  ddim  ddamwain  breiddfy w  f> 

bolltod  braff  mab  alltud  brycli .  /     106  . 

23  Yiv  gariad — 45  .-  Oiiriodd  anwadal  galon     ....  r 

na  serch  byth  onis  eirch  bun 

24  J  ferch — 46  .•  Traserch  ar  wenferch  wiiifaeth     ....  d 

barf  a  chyrn  byrfwch  arnaf .  /     101  . 

h.  J'r  hetfedtv — 47  .•  Yr  het  fedw  da  ith  gedwii-     ....        e 
gwaith  wyd  Morfydd  llwyd  ai  Haw  .  /     IOS 

25  F  llwyn  Cehjn — 4S ;  Y  celynllwyn  cofl  iawnllvvyth  ....       f 

gysylltedig  gar  brig  bron     lOg  . 

27  J  Hiraetli — if<):  Digwsg  fum  am  ail  degau     ....  g 

gida  ihi  a  gad  ith  oea     110  . 

28  J  Jfor  Hael — 50  :  Jiov  avr  o  farwriaetli     ....  h 

liyd  yr  heiiir  y  gwenitb  ||  1.  25  D.  ap  G. 

29  Ijllyna  gystal  llawn  gostiaw     ....  i 
yn  gedernid  ir  byd  byth  .  /     136                      //'^"  ward  ta 

b.  f  Dd:  ap  Cadwaladr  0  farchelldref — 1§  . 

mab  cadr  Cadwaladr  cedwi  lydd  hael     ....  k 

dy  glod  droa  y  gwledydd  .  /     131  Syppyn  Cyfeiliog 

31  Mar:  Mallt  fercli  Howel  Selau  .  I     7i> 

farglwyddej  feistres  oedd  fyw  a  difalch     ....  / 

a  chel  a  weles  vchel  wiliau  .  /     138  .  Ttuliir  Penllyn 

34  y  Einion  Groniu  o  Benllyn — §0 

y  gwr  ai  law  yn  y  gored     ....  m 

dy  eisiav  i  gyd  oesi .  /     13^  Bedo  Aeddran 

36  Mar:  Ho:  ai  itiruig — 81 :  Y  ddau  ddyn  a  ddiweddwyd  .  .  .  n 
heb  wanhau  meibion  Howel .  /     1^0  Rhys  Penarth 

38  f  D.  ap  J.  ap  Emon — §2 :  Y  blaena  o  bobl  wynedd  ....     o 
[o]  wynedd  am  annedd  mwy     1J!i.1  .  Dd:  Nanmor 

40  C.  cyihod  Hoicel  Vychan  a  Ho:  ap  Gr:  Derioas  .  /     §3  . 

Gruffydd  beisrydd  bowysran     ....  p 

a  gwin  yn  Nanau  a  gaf .  /     llf.2  Tudur  Penllyn 

41  y  syr  Richart  Gethin  yngharchar  ynffrainc — 8^. 

Y  mae  glaw  am  a  glowais     ....  q 
y  Hew  dv  oil  ai  diail     143                                Gutto'r  Glyn 

44       Dart  Arglwydd  Herbart  baham  na  throes     ....  r 

vn  clo'r  king  Edwart  yw  Herbart  hen     14^  .      L.  G.  Cothi 

47   Mar:   Gladtts  verch  syr  Dd:    Gam  .  /     86  .  / 

Y  seren  0  Efeni     ....  s 
pand  teg  paintiad  y  gadair||    1.  35                         „           „ 

49  ||Castell  eiugl  cist  y  llongwyr     ....  f 
Pettwn  y  mynnwn  fy  mod     80                            Jolo  Gvch 

50  jf  erchi  inarch  i  Jthael  ap  Rotpert  archdiagon  Tegaingl — 11  . 

Rho  duw  mawr  y  march  blawr  blwng     ....  u 

poed  gwir  bywyd  hir  'i  hwn  .  /     81  .  Jolo  Goch 

53  J  wallt  merch-^18 :  Doe  gwelwn  canwn  be  caid     ...        v 
da  trig  aur  ar  befrbrig  bun  .  /  82  . 

Jevan  u.  Rhydcrch  ap  Evan  lloyd  0  Ogerddan 


654  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS   108-109. 

55  Mol:  Dd:  mab  Cadwaladr  ofaehelldref — ig  , 

Oyrchais  ar  frys  winllys  wiw  lie  rhydd     ....  a 

Ced  rwydd  cad  cludlwydd  clodwyr     83  ,  IL'n  goclt  M.  M.  h. 

57    Y  tafod — 20 :  Taw  druaii  fawd  lydan  ledr     ....  b 

gael  twyll  myn  goleuad  duw  .  /     §^  . 

59  Jr  farf—21 :  Doe  pryd  hwnn  yr  oeddwn  i     .     .     .     .  c 

Ymgaru  miag  Euron  .  /     6?5  Jolo  Goch 

62  Jferch — 'i2  :  Ymrafacl  ym   ami  oreufedd     ....  d 

y  chwardd  bun  ochwirdduw  byth  .  /     86       ai  M.  Benfras 

63  J  Dudtir  ap  Jorwerth  Sais — 23. 

Myddylio  i  ddwf  mau  ddolur     ....  e 

a  thro  tra  fynnych  a  thrig     8~i  .     Rhys  ap  Cynjrig  coch 

66  ^  Syr  Mossier  Mortimer  iarll  y  Mars  .  2//.  , 

Syr  Rossier  assur  oessawr f 

Bobl  Vlster  bob  ail  ystod     88  .  Jolo  Goch  .  j 

70  Mar:  jftJiael  ap  Rotpert  archdiagon  Tegaingl — 25  . 

Eres  y  tones  Terra     ....  g 

Pifiau  bu  dechrau  dycliryn  ||  i.  lo. 


MS.  109  =  Hen.  52.  The  Poems  of  Lewis  Glynn  Cotiii. 
Vellum  9^  x  4  inches;  192  pages;  late  xvth  century;  bound  in 
leather. 

This  MS.  has  been  supposed  to  be  in  the  autograph  of  the  author — the  fact  that 
only  half  of  the  lines  are  given  in  some  poems  does  not  necessarily  prove  it  to  he  by 
a  later  hand  though  it  must  be  a  copy  of  an  imperfect  original.*  Still  there  appears 
to  have  been  more  than  one  hand  at  work.  The  titles,  where  they  occur,  are  in 
rubric,  and  at  the  beginning  of  every  composition  there  is  either  a  shield  or  a  space 
left  for  one.  Many  of  the  shields  hear  devices,  some  coloured  and  some  in  outline, 
while  other  shields  are  left  blank.  "  Llyfr  Sr  Owen  ap  Gwi'hmf  prydydd  ao 
offeiriad  T&l  y  llyn  ym  Meirionnydd  oedd  y  llyfr  hwii  "  (p.  192).  "gr:  Dwun" 
(p.  1001.     "  William  llyn  "  (p.  192). 

1   06dyl  argl6yd  herbart 

Dart  arglOyd  herbart  ba  ha  .  Na  thorres     ....  h 

Vnklor  king  EdOart  yOr  herbart  hO». 
4       [GJIJr  yO  fyr  RilTiart  ac  a  ry  "}  6ia     ....  i 

Salmon  yu  troi  mroii  y  trimor  oed. 

7       [M]i  af  kyii  yr  haf  vy  rail  .  vv  redee     ....  k 

Aphoet  yn  ganml6jd  argl6yd  i  del. 

9  06dyl  John  ap  Rys  ap  Jaliy 

Boned  dOylan  ned  del  yn  6yn     ....  / 

NaOb  yr  engylion  ar  noii  glyri  ned. 

11  [Ajetli  lyn6yr  tir  g6yr  i  geyrj'd  .  Y  pab     ....  m 
Ac  o  ytir  gOent } 

12  [D]Auyd  fy  6in6yd  ap  iohn  .  O  dir  g6yr     ....  n 
Teilo  ai  nodo  ai  6in6yden. 

14       [Djauyd  ap  ']a\\\\.  ryd  o  Oreidyn  .  diualeh     ....  o 

Ef  yO  deOi  fant  o  jja6t  a  fion. 

*  The  autograph  MS.  of  Wm:  Llyn  at  Cardiff  is  similarly  defective, 
f  For  autograph  poems  of  Syr  Owen  see  Shirburn  MS.  E  40. 
j  The  second  half  of  the  11  concluding  lines  are  wanting. 


THE  POEMS   OF   LEWIS  GLYNN   KOTHI.  656 

16  06dyl  W  ap  Glm:  Pa  dy  o  gymry  a  d6c  ym.laOer  ...         a 

Ac  nit  el  let  g6euii  oi  dy  L.  G.  Kolhi 

17  OOdyl  Henri  ap   Glm. 

Ai  kymro  .  n  .  gOreidio  o  veOn  grym  .  viij  Oyr  ....       b 
Henri  ai  dyly  ar  gymry  gyt. 

19   06dyl  uar6nat  iomas  iiychd  ap  tomas  ap  ho. 

Marchoc  tir  s6enoc  g6ae  dyu  g6au  oedioc     ....  c 

Ar  uro  ny  guy  no  aphl6yf  g6enoc 

21  06dl  .  iiij  .  meibffelpot  ap  Rys 

PedOar  mab  gOreidia  dar  dyrys  )  gynnon     ....  d 

Obed(5«)'  imp  dar  o  rys 

22  06dyl  Etta  uerch  U'n  ap  M'dud  Am  badereu 

Adeinioc  o  uard  a  ad6eyny  6yf     ....  e 

Noc  a  roet  o  droet  ioradein 

23  06dyl  Jeuan  ap  ll'n  uychan 

De6is  eginyn  ydi6  ifeuara  .  vych     ....  f 

Aet  oes  ac  einioes  ir  eginyn. 

25       []f]eu««  ap  yihilip  ieuor  .  ir  6yt     ....  g 

Da  a  du  ydOyt  ifeuaw 

27  06dyl  Ho  ap  yftyftjn  ai  arveu. 

POy  gOraid  maelTyueid  pOy  yl'fyd  .  yn  hael     ....         h 
Ac  yu  y  gOraid  egin  gras. 

28  [B]on  llyr  crue  eryr  idan  goron  .  Loegr     ....  i 
Ar  y  gOr  gorea  o  gruc  eryr. 

29  [V]al  eneit  achorfF  i  uelienyd      Eym     ....  k 
A  du6  a  ranno  da  ir  eneit. 

31  06dyl  y  march  i  dd'  ap  Bl'edud  uychan  o  uelienyd 

Meirchion  glaii  ieithon  6yt  y  nyd  .  A  nos     ....  I 

A  g6as  a  marchoc  uegis  meircbaOn 

32  [B]it  grair  llaii  bilteir  dr6y  dri  .  ban  y  byt     ....     m 
Ytt  hah]  eboftaOl  pl6yf  llann  bifteir 

34  [IIi]ys  yOain  rymyf  ual  yr  oil   .  o  bryt     ....  n 
Nef  Oeithian  yO  raii  yOain  a  Rys. 

35  [K]aer  yft6yth  dylOyth  a  laif  dan   .  beunyd     ....        o 
Vn  barr  a  eifteu  ,  n   .  aber  yftOyth. 

36  [MJaeftr  6atkyn  pewryn  g6in  per  Adamafc     ...  j^ 
Ytt  gytgerd  etto  gwatgyn  . 

38       [M]aeftr  6atgyn  ureich6yn  g61at  ujychan  ryfl'Or  ...  q 

Wyth  o  ucychan  ith  ureichieu. 

40       [^'J'J'Jjn  aroun  lie  .  r  .  eidunOn  .  gael     ....  r 

kaniad6r  ^angkyn  yd6yf  . 

42       [(3i'\6i\im  ap  Morgan  le6  g6ae61ym  .  diualcb     ....         .y 
Ai  gaereu  murgalch  rygar6  morgant 

44  [D]eur  ym  tj-ahaearn  uyth  a  dric  .  ym  byO     ....        / 
Er  dy  uoli  ym  6yr  ririt  ulaid. 

45  [Ajnnef  eiiron  jfohii  vynghOrf  enOi  .  hael     ....  ;* 
Y6r  Uenn  a  ry  UaO  Annes. 

47       [YJNhOr  bald6yn  es  dOynos     ....  v 

Val  i  bu  oldal  yn  hOr  bald6yn 


656  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   109. 

49       [G]OenureOy  dOynOen  i  dan     ....  a 

Ef  ai  0ae6  ir  gat  i  uric  ed6y.  L.  G.  Kothi 

51  Kerd  morgan  ap  tomas  ap  Gruff,  ap  nikolas 

Mae  digou  o  Ion  gan  lais     ....  It 

Nel'la  i  rad  hen  fyr  rys 

52  [PJOy  yO  adar  gOar  116ch  g6in     ....  c 
Leiliav  rif  y  mil6yr  hynn. 

54  [M]ae  un  ual  harri  mon6y J 

Teiroes  roet  duO  i  harri. 

55  [Y]  bObacli  iach  ar  g6ae0  us e 

Vchot  6ythoes  vych  ditheu 

57       [T]rillu  aeth  trOyr  lioll  iaith     ....  f 

Eto  i  rai  a  uo  trOm. 

59  [Y]  naOuet  o  dineuOr     ....  g 
Ar  bais  dur  ir  bafet  6ynn. 

60  Jydainap  Gruff:  [^]arll  hir  uor  lle6  o  urien     ....       h 

Na  dim  mOy  ont  am  y6ain. 

62  Mael'tr  morgan  ef  ai  uaner     ....  i 
?  gael  gan  rys  a  gOilym. 

63  [Y]r  hael  gynt  me6n  rolh  a  gait     ....  k 
Oet  yr  aur  y6  dri  eryr 

Yma  y  daruu  mar6nat  h'o  ap  dd'  ap  Tomas. 

65       PAnn  vv  gnulh  mor  brulhei     ....  I 

Teir  oes  y6  blant  ai  Oyrion. 

67  3Iar6nat  Tomas  ap  Roffier  Argl6yd  heraft 

Y  maes  grymuffa  o  gret     ....  m 
,       Du6_el0eith  ai  dialo. 

68  MarCnat  morgan  ap  dd'  gam 

T  Pennaeth  ymhob  bonep     ...  » 

YOr  bar6n  doeth  ger  bron  du6. 

70  Marbnat  fyr  Gr  uycha 

Dr&c  iaOn  uyd  pob  anobeitb     ...  o 

Bit  dyn  os  y  byt  a  da6 

72  Mardtiat  Ho  go-^  ap  Rys 

Y  gOalch  6edi  euror  g6allt     ...  ;) 
Mae  nef  yn  gartref  ir  gOr 

7.3  Mar6nat  dd'  JL6yt  ap  c  [Dre  newydd] 

Gwaer  Mat  g6ae  ry6  lu  o  6yr     ....  ij 

Aet  i  rys  dair  o  oeflbed. 

75  K'  gdeuruul  hael  a  uaelor. 

P6yr  bard  a  chOard  na  cherdaOr     ....  r 

A  gOeuruul  ir  drugared. 

77  Mar6nat  Gr'  ap  Aran 

MAen  ryued  balched  y  byt     ....  s 

DuO  y  raOc  i  adu  rys. 

78  Mar6nat  ho  ap  Gron6y  o  iiador  / . 

Wyleis  acbos  niar6olaeth     ....  t 

A  gar  eneit  mab  gronOy. 

80  MarOnat  Riffiart  uychan  .  Argl6yd  bleduach 

Pregeth  i  elen  gethin     ....  n 

"Jr  g6r  ai  uab  uor  gOyry  uajr. 


THE  POEMS   OF  LEWIS   GLYNN   KOTHI.  657 

81  Mar6nat  m'ch  dd'  gam  ap  II'  ap  ho'. 

[Y]  feren  o  euenni     ....  a 

7  de6iff6ii  dyOyflaOc.  /..  G.  Kothi 

83       *****       le6ys     ******  b 

Trigaf  i  gymryt  ragaOr     .     .     .     , 

Vy  eueit  a  anfonaf. 

85  CyOyd  maeftr   Wathyn  arglOyd  Heraff. 

Ha6dama0r  heb  una6r  6aft     ....  c 

]f  le6  heral't  el  hiroet. 

86  K.  II:  ap  Rys  ap  John 

Angel  ydi6  UyGelyn     .     ,     ,     ,  d 

Ef  a  bair  ran  i  uab  rys. 

88       Fedeir  g6raged  buchedol     ....  e 

Gan  gOyl  a  gOin  a  gOely. 

90  [D]auyd  un  lloOyd  na6  Uys     ....  j 
A  mair  ir  llun  i  maer  Hall. 

91  [N]odeu  .  r  .  beir[d]  y  ne0idia6     ....  g 
I  dielycli  dy  dyl6yth. 

93       [Y]  gOr  ieuangk  ual  greal     ....  h 

f  dlr  gOyr  dra  gyOyd. 

95  [lL]aOer  6yl  gynllo  a  ret     ...     .  i 
Aet  i  eua  a  dd'. 

96  [Y]  mab  h6y  no  beli  maOr     ....  k 
A  du6  i  adu  yOein 

99  CyOyd  ach  dd'  go}  ap  M'er  j  ap  M  j 

BreiniaOl  Cyt  or  bar6u0aet     ....  I 

A  iarll  hen  uyth  o  6r  116yt. 

100   Yr  ail  hyCyd  i  dd'  go^ 

POy  yOr  vn  er  yn  uab  broii     ....  tn 

Y  deu  oet  oed  i  adam. 

102  K'  M'ed'  ap  dd'  uychan 

Nit  gOell  g61at  am  da  rat  ryd     ....  n 

Ac  erchi  im  gyrchu  march. 

104       K'  Jeu  ap  Gruff,  uychn 

[E]ryneic  6yt  ir  auoeth     ....  o 

Du6  a  ro  ytt  bedeir  oes. 

106  Ys  da  le  gOyl  nis  daily  gOc     ....  p 
Gwynn  rys  ar  uorys  i  uab. 

107  Y  wraic  oreu  o  ugeia     ....  q 
A  thalu  fi&yth  i  elis. 

109       [Y]  nan  melan  mae  ael6yt    ....  r 

El  mor  hen  Wiliam  a  rys. 

Ill       [M]]f  af  heb  dim  o  ouut     ....  s 

A  deuOell  ydiO  ieuaw 

113       Y  groc  Oyn  o  gaer  a  gait     ....  t 

[Am  i]  gOedi  hi  uyd  hen 

115       [Y]mr[u]lhei  imaer  ael6yt     ....  u 

A  lyOia  tai  .  r  .  aelGyt  honn. 

117       [P]<Jyr  angel  ha6d  i  Oelet     ....  v 

Henri  bit  bynny  ar  benn. 


658  PENIAETH  MANUSCEIPT   109. 

118       [Y]  gOr  lioff  ar  Oraid  ry  hael     ...  a 

DuO  ehun  nodet  honno.  L.  G.  Kothi 

120       [Y]  dOy  Oi-aged  ryOiogach     ....  J 

YOch  i  bo  bendith  ych  bard. 

122  [V]y  mryt  a  uii  ym  hrydyii     ....  c 
Ar  vy  min  dyfv  barf  m6y. 

123  [P]a  6alh  gyltalh  6rth  gaftell     ....  d 
Ar  gaftell  lyOiaGdr  gyftal 

125       [Y]  gOr  enOoc  or  ynys     ....  g 

I)u6  yn  geidOat  i  Jeuan. 

127       [D]yd  da  ir  Oreioda  ai  roes     ,     ,     .     .  f 

Ai  chyOyd  i  uerch  Jeuan. 

129       [D]yd  dar  g6rola  ai  ron     ....  g 

Aur  unOed  ar  6yr  [eniaOn]* 

131  ][olin  hyuedr  ar  uarch  iohn  hauart  .  Alont     ....         h 
POyr  putn  uyn  a  6yr  pum  fynOyr  jfohu. 

132  Nud  hael  un  anael  en6  ifan  .  heilued     ....  » 
NaOd  duO  arno  nud  y  deyrnas. 

134       O  duO  p6y  nglan  gOy  a  gai   .   ar  aled     ....  k 

J  lenOi  gOin  ar  lann  g6y. 

137       [B]e  delei  bop  rai  i  bop  bryn   .   nit  dim     ....  I- 

Yn  llys  bail  Hat/  Yn  lie  i  dat/  OellOell  i  del. 

139       O  winGyd  davj/d  uyngradiuel   .   g6yii     ....  m 

Y6  ho6e/  ap  davi/d. 

1 41       [0]  bu  blanheteu  duonn     ....  n 

Na  uu  er  ioet  nef  i  rys. 

143  [M]i  af  att  nud  karn  auan     ....  o 
Nit  rait  onit  duO  a  rys. 

144  [C]eid6at  a  gat  ual  fyr  gi     .     .     .     .  p 
Dyro  ruffud  i  driffOyth. 

146  [Mlair  a  roes  nef  ymhreffen     ....  q 
farll  hir  uor  lleO  o  heraft. 

147  Space  left  for  a  Cywydd. 

149       Rys  derOen  blaen  treii  blaena  tras     ....  r 

Na  dyn  i  rys  .  A  dynnor  iav. 

151        [J]ohn  nud  ap  davyd  bit  .  r  .  ar  yr  .  ff  .      ...  s 

116r  fir  ai  bailor  y6  John. 

153       [Y]  ffiol  6ych j     •     •     •    •  t 

A  duO  ai  mair  i  gad6  mallt. 

155       Ble  mae  un  Olat  yn  lladin     ....  tt 

Ac  ir  llys  wrth  g6rr  y  llys  [iic] 

157  Goroen  llys  ger  lla6  o  0yd     ....  v 
Eoi  oes  adaf  ir  f6ydoc 

158  [Y]  dref  nis  rof  bedeir  oes     ....  w 
Tair  oes  i  gar6  tir  offOallt 

160       [Y]  lleO  oed  eurlli6  i  6allt    ...  a 

Lad  d6yuil  acliled  davyd 

*  The  ink  of  the  last  16  lines  has  peeled  off  except  in  the  first  vrord  of  each  line, 
t  Only  the  first  words  of  lines  1  to  20  are  written. 


THE  POEMS  OF  LEWIS  GLYNN  KOTHI.         659 

162       [Ajnr  angliarat  laO  arian     ....  a 

Dair  oes  i  roi  deuryO  Oin  .  L.  G.  Kothi 

164       [O]  Wat  gref  ual ....  b 

Or  aur  am  6an' 


166       [0]r  archefgob  ar ....  c 

Hyt  na  bo  na  Hit  ua  bar.* 

168       [G]on  ua6r ....  d 

lloegr  Oynias 

170  blank. 

171  Mi  af  att  imd  bryii  hafot    ....  e 
A  daet  oed  da  duO  ido  . 

172  Jr  .  ij  .  vroder:  0  duO  ys  da  o  deuOr     ....  / 

J  tro  diiO  bont  ar  dy6i. 

174      Er  hyd  a  gyftala  raOc    ....  g 

BOa  yO  rys  uo  byO  raCc 

176       [IL]as  gOinOyd  melienyd  Ian     ...     .  h 

J  lyOiaO  .  rent  ar  ol  Rys. 

178       [Y]  ileO  fyd  yny  Uys  6e»     .     .     .     .  i 

Yn  oes  gOin  yn  is  genenn 

180       [Y]vory  a6n  i  vro  6yr     ....  k 

Son  m6y  ont  am  iobn  a  maOt  . 

182       [Y]  lle6  ry  hael  yn  lie  rys     ...     .  / 

I  hoedran  ar  vorgan  vo 

184  [M]i  af  att  nud  karn  afann     ....  tn 
Nit  rait  onit  du6  a  rys 

185  [Y]  deOr  o  gylch  raeadr  g6y     ....  n 
A  di  anaf  uo  d6yneb  . 

187       [Y]  kar6  Jeuangk  ar  euas     ....  o 

A  tlirioet  leth  ar  iat  fohn  , 

189       [G]oual  drOyr  byt  a  gauat     ....  p 

Yny  faint  or  ynys  honn.f 


191  arglwyddi    kcdyrn  ydeirnion  |  heb  wedd  pe  bai  ddim    yddyn 
fyre  ynghyfeir  pob  I'eren  |  ag  yn  hv  pob  fyry  fyran  Ho:  kilan. 


MS.  110  =  Hen.  156.  The  Poetical  Works  of  Tudue  Aled,  etc. 
Paper;  11^  X  7f  inches;  304  pages  of  which  a  few  are  in  double 
columns ;  imperfect  at  the  beginning  and  in  the  body  of  the  manusciipt ; 
second  quarter  of  the  xvith  century,  except  a  loose  leaf  and  pp.  19-24, 
283-96,  which  are  later;  repaired  throughout  and  strongly  boun^  in 
white  vellum. 

The  titles  of  the  poems  are  in  a  later  hand,  and  there  are  numerous  marginalia  iu 
various  hands,  among  them  being  what  looks  like  the  autograph  ■writings  of  William 
Salesbury  (pp.  73,  153,  154),  Sion  Mowddwy  (pp.  144-5,  146-7),  and  John  Tuder 
(p.  266). 

*  1 8  lines  at  the  end  are  written  in  full. 

f  The  second  half  of  lines  19-50  are  wanting. 


■W 


660 


PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   110. 


"  Hugh  Nanney  is  the  tru  honor  of  this  booke  "  (p.  87  &  116) — note  the  poetry 
to  Nannav  on  margins  of  pp.  140  &  144  ;  Gr:  Nanney  (p.  197)  ;  "  John  Priohard, 
1652  "  (pp.  250  &  30! .)  The  MS.  seems  to  have  belonged  also  to  Dr.  John  Davies 
from  the  fact  that  he  indexed  hut  did  not  copy  it.  The  margins  bear  his  marks 
which  indicate  the  quotations  in  the  Dictionarum  Duplex  of  1632. 

i-iii,  v-x,  300-1  Blank. 

iv      (Os  aeth  y  Capten  oi  sir  ir  nefoedd     ....  ,1 

William  salbri  .  .  .  och  wr  Bachynbyd     .... 
fy  Wilis  /  i  /  felly  sydd  i?.  Powell  amorgam) 

1  II  *kvryn  gi-yf  engil  kawr  vn  gravangav     ....  b 
nev  pe  am  dwysoc  nawypom  deisiav                Tudiir  Aled 

2  Koioydd  Rcinallt  ap  grvff.  ap  Res 

Reinallt  jth  eilw  rrianedd     ....  c 

ach  glaned  ywch  gael  enioes 
0  Owdiol  mastyr  Robert  salybri  o  Lanrwst 

ni  bydd  yn  ydydd  tra  vo  dwr  na  thes     ....  d 

mi  a  -wn  na  bv  na  mwy  ni  bydd 

1 1  Kowydd  mredvdd  ap  JeunTi  ap  Robert 

ef  a  lenwis  o  vylaenawr     ....  e 

kawr  a  Haw  va\vr  kair  hell  vyd 

14  K.  i  erchi  march  gan  abad  aber  kontcy  i  Lewis  amhadoc 

Gidac  vn  a  geidw  gwynedd     ....  / 

merch  dec  pe  kaid  march  yw  dwyn 

16  J  syr  gr:  ap  rys:  bardd  wyf  ac  yn  by w  ar  ddav     ...       g 
ban  I'o  duw  vaes  banred  vych 

19        fssaith  niwrnawd  wawd  wiwrym    ....  h 

iddyn  idda  ai  dduw  ynddic  Jhohh  o  Kent 

22  f  Jtfar.-  llywelyn  goch  amheurig  hen 

Oddiiw  dec  aiddaedyn     ....  i 

prydydd  ymhorth  paradwyss  iolo  [gochj    »■ 

23  fnagor  mawr  geir  mvr  gwyngalch  ....                                         ft 
dwred  avr  deryw  y  dyn  .  jhion 

25        dyn  wyf  er  doe  anafwyt    ....  I 

Telit  tijw  ni  bydd  tylawt  twn  Guttoi- .  glyn 

27   Owdwl  abad  glyn  egioestyl 

Evrou  vwch  goron  ewch  i  gerydd  /  /  sin  .  .  .  m 

evro  r  haid  ar  yr  hediad  .  T.  Aled 

31  /  syr  tomas  salbri  : 

Gwae  holl  gred  trymed  tromwedd  am  ercbwyn     .     .     .     .     n 
am  uas  ynill  grym  sy  n  holl  gred . 

36  7  Sion  pilstwn :  pwy  a  dyr  gwayw  val  powdr  gv^yllt  ...  o 

ty  trigwres  tad  rowiowgrwydd . 

38  /  Tudur  llwyd:  af  ir  ty  vyth  ar  vort  vawr  ....  p 

kanwyl^  ywavn  kanlloiw 

41  f  syr  risiart  herbard :  y  i&vw  Aoiviv  or  iiv  dyrjs  .   .   .  q 

hirborth  duw  herbar  ith  dal . 

'44  J  sion  pilstwnn :  piler  ^dwal  pie  ir  ydwyd  ...  r 

DOC  oed  tvr  nev  gateri . 

47  3Iar:  robert  pilstivn  :  dnw  orvchaf  edryched   ...  * 

del  i  mab  rrwng  dwylo  mair . 


*  For  first  line  see  Pen.  MS.  101  (p.  60) :   Syr  Bwn  nerth  dragwn. 
f  The  Cywyddeu   in  small  type  are  in  three  different  hands  which  differ  from  the 
rest  of  the  manuscript, 


THE  POETICAL  WOKKS   OP  TUDUK   ALED.  66l 

50  J  ahad  G.  Egioestl:  ynys  brydain  os  brevder   ...  a 

a  choion  liwy  no  chyr  liwn  2'udur Aled 

53  ^  roesier  salbri :  ystiwart  rroa  a  dart  rrvdd   ...  b 

odid  byw  wedi  dybeii . 

57  /  si/r  tho:  salbri :  pwy  y\v  bylaenor  pobyl  y  wcnol  ...  e 

tad  medd  y  kynteidiau  mawr  ||   (I.  36) 

59       davydd  fyredvdd  vyrodir     ....  d 

vn  duw  gad  enaid  y  gwyr . 

Qi  J  ho:  ap  rvff:  ap  Rys  :  pie  rrent  rvfFydd  ap  Rys  ...  e 

hvw  del  vwch  hoedyl  a  iechyd  . 

64  Mar:  dd:  llwydap  Tiidur :  Tros  "Jal  y  tores  hevlwen  ...  f 

Garllaw  duw  r  gwr  llwyd  o  ial 

6Q  J  /f  mab  Elis  evtvn  dros  ho:  ap  Janhyn  i  erchi  hwkyled 

bwriwyd  help  ar  y  brvd  byn     ....  g 

bid  ar  \n  bedair  enioes . 

69      pa  dir  ir  impiwyd  aeron     ....  h 

Lwnt  0  bower  hwynt  biav  . 

71       y  trimaib  at  yrymwan     ....  * 

Maer  irvthyn  ym  ai  rrotho 

f  Gruff:  llwyd  ap  elisav 
73       arvav  ddoe  ar  vedd  owain     ....  k 

y  aderyn  Uwcb  oedran  Hew  . 

76       duw  a  roes  llwyn  dros  y  llaill     ....  I 

kyw  owiu  glynn  kan  y  gloch 

79  Mar:  owm  ap  inevric  :  arvav  duw  ar  vodeon     ...  m 

derby  n  hedd  dewr  bonheddic 

81  f  Meistr  reinallt  ap  huw  Aonwy 

Mae  gair  i  dad  am  garw  du     .     .     .     .  n 

erchi  i  dduw  roi  i  cbwi  ddwyoes 

&4  /  sion  wynn  ap  Jeuan  ap  Rys 

-  kan  och  oedd  akw  n  vchel     ....  a 

i  roi  ynile  or  vn  wlad  |1     1.  60— see  Pen.  MS.  75,  p.  118 
87       Mae  hon  yn  drwm  o  liyny     ....  p 

Gwnaed  duw  ac  enaid  bowel 

89  J  JEdtv:  trefawr  :  Edvvart  dewr  a  dvrwayw  tan  .   .  .  q 

ni  bor  wavn  eb  yrwyneb 

91   J  D.  0.  escob  assaf:  )  bwy  rroes  duw  bob  rrvw    s(ad    .  .      r 
bir  y  bo  yn  kadarhavr  byd . 

94  y  robart  ap  Rys :  argoel  vndyn  maer  gleidid    ...  s 

byd  dydd  brawrf  diwedd  brevder 

98  J  reinallt  ap  Gruff:  ap  howel 

Mae  draw  gawr  modrwiawc  wallt     ....  / 

ai  tair  enioes  yt  yreinallt . 

\02  jf  3  mah  S.  salbri :  per  rron  tori  prcn  tirlon  ...  u 

pvm  baerwy  aur  vo  i  pvm  rrodd  . 

106  Mar:  To''  hen  salbri:  Mi  awn  gwyu  am  vn  gwr   ...  v 

na  vv  ddim  i  nef  i  ddaeth 

109  Jffowc  salbri  deon  llan  elioy  . 

Mae  gw.aed  ir  yn  magv  dyn     ....  li; 

nid  vuUe  ith  roed  yny  llythr  aur  (\.  52)  || 


662  1>ENIARTH  MANUSCBiPT  110. 

]  1 1       duw  ni  roes  dan  awyr  iacli     ....  a 

ir  byd  par  -wybod  pwy  wyd . 

114  jf  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  Tti'i- :  Mae  denw  rrys  am  dywin  rrudd  .  .  b 
■J   ti  r   rroed  kynal  ty  r  rrys.* 

117  3Iar:  S.  anihijredvdd :  Mair  vadlen  marw  w  waedlew  ...  c 

a  nef  i  hwn  efo  a  hi 

121       pam  i  heuwir  pvm  heinioes     ....  d 

wythoed  yr  hain  ith  iad  rrys . 

124  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Jankyn  ap  Jerwerth 

llwyn  oedd  ym  yn  lie  nev  ddav     ....  c 

vyth  haiacli  o  vath  howell 

Koivijdeu  Jr  ahad  davydd  ap  owain 
127       nid  balch  nid  tivalcli  ond  davydd  |1  abad   ....  / 

ni  bvant  difalch  neb  ond  davydd 

132       ai'wyddiou  saesou  ai  sel     .     .     .     .  g 

pawb  a  ddyfod  pab  ddavydd 

137       berw  oedd  ofer  beii'dd  iefaink     ....  A 

a  ft'e  bai  u  vwch  no  ffab  neb . 

141       y  pen  y  rroed  pan  ar  livyii     ....  t 

Gofyn  dyv^r  ar  gefyn  dyorvirydd 

145       o  bavd  iach  abad  a  venn  ...  A 

hwy  n  y  byd  noth  henw  bedydd 

148  J  Pirs  Conwy  archiagon 

Mawr  vv  enw  am  rvw  vonedd     ...  / 

■J  tliroi  n  hon  atliro  n  henwr 

151  J  Gwen  vrewy :  y  verch  wenn  vvr  ycbwanec  .  .  ni 

^  gorffeno  gav  r  ffynon 

155  J  Hiomffre  ap  hoioel  ap  Jankyn 

y  keirw  mawr  y  kair  i  medd     ....  n 

■Jr  deigr  niair  dec  ai  mab 

160  jf  dd:  vab  elissav  :  yr  vn  pren  ir  yn  prhav  (sic)  ....  o 

faith  vgeinoes  itli  gynal 

Kywyftev,  J  Mows  ap  Jeuan  ap  howel 
164       Ivl.ie  gwaed  taf  lie  i  magwyd  dyn     ....  p 

Modrwy  aur  am  odre  i  wallt 

167       Morvs  drych  y  mara  dir  vchel     ....  ^ 

nathran  di  nathair  yndoes 

171  Mar:  robert :  y  gwr  marw  a  gar  morwyn     ....  r 

dyddiben  yw  dydd  heb  nos 

175  Mar wnad  davydd  ap  edmwnd 

Haw  dduw  a  vvn  Uadd  awen     ....  * 

roi  paradwys  ir  prydydd 

177  Mar:  dd:  np  Howel:  briwodd  y  tir  brevddwyd  dig  ....       t 
yno  y  tyf  enaid  davydd 

179  Mar:  Morgan  sion  :  yraro  doeth  amoradan     ....  u 

aetU  ar  gwr  yw  thrvgaredd 

181   7  If.  ap  John  cdw: — Wyliam  o  dwr  adam  draw  ....  ■w 

Torch  ac  art  aur  ywch  gwrtiwr 


*  Lines  34-40,  63-68  are  torn  oflf. 


THE   POETICAL  WORKS   OF  TUDttR  Al.ED.  Cu3 

184  Owdl  cleon  Kyffyn :  deon  ynys  von  enioes  vaith  .  a 

Hwyr  ddiwedd  i  rryw  ddeon 

187  Moliant  Marged  loyr  Madoc  hloddaith  . 

Mfiwn  vn  Uys  mwy  non  holl  iaith     ....  b 

ni  clieidw  i  aur  na  chav  drws*  i.  58 

190  Owdl  Tomas  ahad  dinas  basi 

pwy  n  abad  yndad  ond  ydydi  tomas     .     ,     .     .  c 

a  di  •vyth  obaith  dy  vath  abad 

194   Oivdl  mastr  roesier  salbri 

Pwy  y w  kledd  dwy  wynedd  a  dinas  /  /  dinbech  ....         d 
pren  sy  gauel  prins  gwynedd 

198       pwy  a  ran  gwaed  y  pren  gwin     ....  e 

amgylcli  i  havl  am  y  gwalcb  hwn 

202  Mar:  Gr:  ap  Rys  .  byw  y  ddydym  eb  ddwedvd  ....  j 

yn  vyw  yn  hir  yni  vwynhav 

205  /  Wiliam  Gruff:  siambrlen  Gwynedd 

J  dref  ar  dor  y  rafon     ....  y 

ay  wr  ai  gtoisc  val  draic  wenn 

209  J  brior  penmon  :  palys  ai  vric  val  powls  vry  ....  h 

debrer  march  da  brior  mon 

212  Marwnad  Jetian  ap  Jthel  vychan 

nid  vn  bwys  ac  nid  iawn  bod     ....  i 

kynta  nevadd  im  graddiwyd 

vv  oror  llys  veryr  llwyd     .... 

pedr  wj'^nn  a  ai  pedwar  enaid 

217  _7  ^y  I'isiart  o  Ian  evrgain 

pen  rryw  abram  pwn  rrybraii     ....  /( 

deon  pols  vo  dwyneb  hael 

220  Mar:  Jeu:  vab  deikws  :  dwyn  aroed  i  nir  ydvvyd  .     .     .     .      / 

rroi  oes  hir  ara  irroes  3'm 
223  J  "  erthi  ddwy  varch  i  ddavydd"  ap  madoc 

dewrder  rroed  i  wrda  r  rrawc     ...  m 

1  iri  vwyn  i  roi  venaid 

226  J  erchi  ychen  :  i)a  wyr  a  gawn  yn  llawn  llythr  ....  n 

ich  nai  daw  ychen  dvon 

230   Y  march  brith  :  powys  Iwyd  pwy  sy  wladwr     ...  0 

rrac  kvro  r  ewic  hirwen 

233  /  I'ohart  ap  rrys :  Moessen  vawr  yma  syn  -^y^  ....  p 

arch  wise  pen  arch  escob  hir 

237  J  S.  amhyredadd  :  Eyfedd  oni  ddaw  rryfel     ....  q 

aed  ir  vn  dyn  dewra  yn  does 

240  At  "  doTiur  hinv  ftyffin  "  i  erchi  cesic 

"Jawn  yw  troi  enwav  triael     ....  r 

a  than  bwyth  hyn  o  bethav 

248  /  robert  salhri  "  loyr  robert  arall  " 

Vn  dyn  a  gwayw  yn  dan  i  gyd     ....  s 

rrobert  na  bom  awr  hebod 

247       sercli  a  rois  ar  chwaer  essyllt     ....  t 

varnv  m  yw  ne  varw  yn  yman 

*  Continued  "  yn  y  pen  ol  ir  lljvyr." 


664  PENtAUTH  MANUSCRIPTS  110-111. 

251   J  syr  TViliam  Gruffudd  siamhrlen 

Mor  Ilawen  maer  llv  iefaink     ....  a 

dyred  ddvc  y  drydedd  waith 
256  Marwnad  Tudir  llwyd  o  Jal 

Mawi'  yw  pwys  duw  marw  post  ial     .     .     .     ,  h 

dyi-o  uef  i  deirn  ial 

260  Mar:  To^  honwy .-  ha  herwydd  y  bai  hiraeth  ....  c 

konwy  ievank  i  nefoedd 

265  Mar:  rrys  ap  mred: — Trwm  vv  lif  trem  val  afon     .     .     .     .  d 
del  yroes  ixwng  dwylo  r  ^ess  ii 

269  J  John  salbri  o  lyweni :  Troes  vndyn  at  ras  hendad  ....         e 
wyth  ywr  dyn  ath  evra  di 

272  Mar:  Jeu:  ap  ho: — Mawr  y  darfv  marw  dewrvjib     ...       / 
poed  ar  bwys  pedere  i  bo 

276  J  Mastr  VViliam,  vychan  o  gil  geran 

kyledd  daiar  wynedd  ai  drych     ....  g 

amgen  uo  clierdd  am  gynyw  chwyrn 

278  J  syr  To^  salbri :  doe  r  ai  a  llv  av  vedr  lladd  ....  h 

boch  gowed  ar  baicli  gwial 

279  f  syr  edwart  arch  ddiagoti  haer  vyrddin 

vn  prelad  wyneb  rrolant     ....  % 

na  bo  gwyn  a  byw  ganoes  old  hand  ends  here. 

283  f  Rob:  ap  rrys :  pwy  yn  kynal  penn  iav  kanon  ....             k 

Ager  o  nef  ai  gyr  yn  wyn  Tiidur  aled 

287       Jolo  goch  pob  elw  ac  ai     .     .     .     .  / 

keisied  gvddio  kest  gwiddon. 

291       Af  ir  vaendref  ivfeindravl     ....  m 

yw  chadw  i  gyd  iechyd  ag  oes . 


H 


294  Mil  a  ffedwargant  a  mwy  o  nowswllt  &c.  iolo  goch 

295  JLevkv  llwyd:  Heniar  afydig  hynwy     ....  o 

devddyn  iii  bwy  hyn  na  hwynt       ll'n  goch  ap  meuric  hen 
29G       Ilawen  wyd  agwen  ddvn  deg  oil  &c,  Owen  G  wynedd  p 

297        Index  to  first  lines  in  the  autograph  of  Dr.  John  Davies  of  Utallwyd. 


MS.  111.  =  Hen.  294.    Llyfr  Sion  ap  Wiliam  ap  Sion 
o    hen    gerdd    a    hen    fydr    ardderchawg :     Hanes 

Taoessin,  Poetry  from  Black  Book  of  Cakmaethen,  the  White 
Book  of  Rhyudeech,  &c.  Paper;  11  x  8{  inches;  392  pages,  in  the 
autograph  of  John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy,  circa  1610  (pp.  356-87  are 
later)  ;  in  good  condition  and  in  original  full  calf  binding. 

Guilielmus  Maur'icius  LaHsilinensis  .  huie  Lib.  operculum  impertit  orbo  .  1C60. 
IJ.  Wmes  Vaughau,  Heugwrt — label  inside  cover. 
E  Libris  Griffithil  Roberta  .  1782.     (p.  1.) 

1  Haneh  Talibhhin  :  Gwr  bonheddig  oedd  gynt  ym  Penllyn  a 
elwit  Tegit  Voel,  ai  dref  tad  oedd  ynghanol  ILynn  Tegit  ai  wreig 
priod  a  elwit  Karidwen,  ag  or  wraig  honno  i  ganet  reap  a  elwit 
Morfrau   ap  Tegit,  a  mercb  a  elwit  y  Greirfyw  a  thegkaf  merch  or 


JOHN  JONES  OF  GELLl  LYVDV.  665 

byt  oedd  lionno  a  brawd  iddviit  wy  oedd  or  dyu  hagraf  or  byd  a  elwit 
y  Vagddv  .  .  .  .  ar  awr  honno  ef  a  beds  ir  march  rygyngv  .  .  .  ag 
yn  fvan  yn  ol  liynny  y  gwnaelli  y  niab  dchvddiant  i  Elffin  a  moliant 
ag  i  proifwydodd  vrddas  i  Elfiin  .  /  Ar  Dehvddiaut  oedd  fal  y 
gwelwcli  ./ 

Elffin  deg  taw  ath  wylo a 

yt  well  no  thivgeiu  mai-an 
A  honn  oedd  y  gerdd  gyntat'  a  ganodd  T.  ci'  dybvdilo  Elffin   .  .  . 
yno  y  kanodd  yntev  yr  banes  bonn  ag  y  dywod  yn  y  modd  bynu 

Prifardd  kyfEredin  wy  fi  i  Elffin     ....  b 

Taliessin  fydda  bellach     See  p.  366  [below'] . 

Lhjma  yr  Englynion  a  ddylefod  yn  ossodadwy  yn  nessa  yn  ol  Vehvddiant 
Jilffin  om  tyb  i  .  / 

Llyma  yr  Englynnion  a  fv  rrwng  Taliessin  pan  i  kad  yn  y  goret 
.  .  .  medi-a  i  ddywedvt  mwy  nog  a  vedry  di  i  ofyn  i  mi  ?  mocs  i  mi 
glywed  betb  a  vedri  eb  yr  Gwyddno  .  / 

Ar  ddwr  y  mas  kyflwr  kant  bendigaw     ....  c 

kans  Dew  ddofydd  a  ddwg  attaw  .  / 

Val  dyna  atteb  Taliessin  am  y  gofynion  vchod 

12  Kanv  ir  Gwynt :  Dycbymig  di  pwy  kreawdr  (yw*)    .    .    .    .    d 
ein  (rban*)  ny  u  rrnnner  Gan  Iv  Lvciferj  Taliessin 

15  Ir  byd  Mawr  :  Golycbaf  vynhad  vy  Nvw  iy  ner(bi:ul     .     .     e 

Parawt  byd  ffin  y  elhvng  (yngbynnelw*)  Elffinj         „ 

16  Urieu  erelgvvydd  (yr  ecliwydd*)  baylaf  dyn  bedydd  ...       / 
Ny  byddwyf  ym  dyrwen  na  molvvyf  Vrienj  „ 

17  Amies  dydd  bratvd :  Dominws  dews  deliad     ....  g 

vn  orig  or  dydd  wrtb  y  vvcbedd  dragowydd  „ 

20  Gicely  gorddion  Poivys 

Kyfarchaf  i  Ddvw  kyfarcli  ddawn  //  foliant     ....         h 
kyndrwymv  Kynddelw  av  banrreg  Cijnddelw 

22  Breiniev  P. — Korddawr  bvenydd  livanaw//  aweb-mawl     .     .  i 
gwaloh  gwenwynfalcb  Gwenwynwyn  ,, 

Vrddassol  DdarUeijdd  llyma  hengerdd  a  gefais  i  yn  ysgrifcnedlg  (om  tyb  i 
ar  ol  yr  hen  Ddicncd)  ag  fal  y  liefais  i  ej  yn  ysgrifenedig  minnev  ai  hysgrifennais 
lylliy  y^  Hytl'yr  (ond  yn  vnig  yn  lie  y  llyihr  hon  jj  n  jj  mi  a  rots  hon  jj  fj  //  ar 
till  yn  ci  plierfedd  ag  felly  y  mac  trwy  yr  holl  hengerdd.,  a  noda  yn  dda  pa  tocdd  y 
darlleir. 


30  Moli  Dun  intiecbreu  a  diuet  &c.  k 

33  Kydvaenad  kelvit  kynelv  o  Dovit  Ac,  I 

37  Eneit  kid  im  gvneit  //  in  agben  digerit  &c.  m 

b.  Nac  iraadneirun  nev  rvnwaredvn  &c.  n 

39  Kyntaw  geir  a  dywedaw  //  y  bore  ban  kyvodaw  //  &c.  o 

40  Mi  ae  gowynneis  y  ofieireid  bid  &c.  p 
42  Dous  ren  rymawy  awen  amen  fiat  ./  he.  q 


*  The  words  withiu  parentheses  are  by  a  different  hand-?  that  of  Di'.  Jolin  Davie?. 

See  Addl.  MS.  31055  folios  1346-1356. 
X  John  Jones  nearly  always  puts  a  dot  in  the  centre  of  the  letter  v  whenever  it 
is  used  for  u  or  w. 

A  A 


y  98430. 


666  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   111. 

46  Hervit  vrten  avtyl  kyrridven  ogyrven  amliad  &c.  a 

47  Gogonedauc  argluit  hanpich  gvell  &c.  b 

48  ILym  awel  Hum  brin  anhawt  caiFael  did  &c.  e 
54  Pa  gvr  yv  y  portliavr  glevlvid  gavaelvavr  &c.  d 
56  Beteii  ae  gwlich  y  glav  &c.  e 

Or  llyfr  dv  o  Gaerfyrddin  hyd  yma :  ag  o  lujnn  allan  o  law  Wiliam 
Salysbvri  medd  lioesier  Morys. 

68       Y  bedd  yn  y  gorfynydd  a  liwiassai  Ivossydd     ...  / 

y  mae  bcdd  Hvn  ap  Alvn  Dyve* 

71  &  282  Anima  christi  sanctifica  me  Src.  ^c.f 

Enwog  trvgarog  rranwyt  tri  //  ag  vn  &c.  &c.  Anon  g 

73  &  284  Poed  gwir  ni  dygir  i  frenhiniaeth  nef  &c.f  D.  ap  Gvoilim  h 

74  Ymddiddan  rrwng  D.  ap  G.  ar  lorach  am  y  modd  y 
gwneir  y  Blaiod  heirch 
Agor  y  ddor  er  kariad  //  ar  Vair     ....  i 

oni  dyfo  /  r  /  gwlan  drwy  /  r  /  garreg  las  .  /     D.  ap  Gwilim 

76  llyma  ddarn  or  hengerdd  vchod  oedd  heb  na  dechrav  na  diwedd 

0  law  lioesier  Morys 
Nytimic  rac  dric  weithred  itnattrec  gvedi  darfFo  ...  h 

ny  derllit  liael  ar  nvy  bo  /  Ny  ry  del  

77  llywa  hynu  a  vedrais  i  ei  gael  o  Gowydd  penn  y  baedd  .  .  .  .  ag  ar  da- 

fod  leferyddfy  ewythvr  W.  Tomas  o  Bant  y  llongdv  y  hefais  i  hynn 
Peua  baedd  koed  hoed  hyder  arhvy  &c.  ^ollo  Goch   I 

78  Arthur  ac  Eliwlot :  Ys  ryfeddaf  kyd  bwyf  bardd  ....        m 

ai  orddyfnaid  barfer  oil  hyd  angav  .  / 

86       Eira  mynydd  kaled  grawn  dail  ar  gytblwng     ....       n 
ni  thyrr  Dvw  ar  a  wnaeth  .  /  JLowarch  hen 

93       Eira  mynydd  hydd  ar  ffo     .     .     .     .  o 

lie  ui  bydd  dysg  ni  bydd  dawn  .  / 

b.       Eira  mynydd  gwynn  tir  pant  oen  [i.e.  con]  pawb  ar  p 

ei  vabsant     ....  Mahgloch  vel 

a  wnel  Dvw  uid  a  yn  adwaitb  Maerglaf  ap  II.  hen 

98       Eira  mynydd  bliu  yw  /r/  byd  nid  a  traha  i  weryd  .  .      y 
yw  /r/  iv.-xuk  ni  wnel  gyngor.  /  Mahldog  ap  II.  hen 

103    V  misoedd :  Mis  ^onawr  myglyd  dyilryn     ....  r 

ni  cbwsg  Dvw  pan  ro  wared  Anneirin  Gioawdrvdd 

108   Y  X  Go7'ch'. — Na  chymer  vn  llvn  yn  lie  //  y  gwirddvw  ...     s 
na  dim  a  veddo  nai  dir 

110  Na  wna  ddelw  ar  dy  belw  gerfiad  na  llvn     ....  t 
niewn  kellwair  divrifair  na  gwaith                   Mr.  Roberts'^ 

b.  Ave  Maria  :  Grassol  Mair  ydwyd  dy  groessi  burwen     .     ,        u 
bendigwyd  bavn  diogan  .  /  do 

111  Y Pader :  Nefol  dad  llawn  rrad  Hyw  an  rri  ydwyd     .     .      v 

yn  rrwydd  (o  Ddvw)  rryddha  ddyn  .  /  Amen     „  „ 

113   Y  Gredo  :  Ir  tad  yn  wastad  estyd  //  i  kredat     .     .     .     .      w 
beri  y  lie  yn  b'irod .  /  Amen .  /  >,  » 


*  Followed  by  9  blauk  line.'!.     See  Addl.  31055  fol.  137. 
+  See  Addl,  31055  fol.  200  and  2001), 
I  "  or  tv  hwnt  ir  mor." 


LLYVYR   GWYN   RHYDDERCH.  G67 

llo   Y  Gredo  :  krcdv  yr  wyf  benuaf  ir  tad  gorvcliaf  //  .  .  .         a 
bowyd  0  newycld  auniweddar  .  /  3ir.  Roberts 


1 1 7  Urddassd  ddarUeydd  Ihjma  hen  qcrdd  a  i/ngrifcnodd  yr  hen  Risiart 
Laiigford  o  Drcfahjn  allan  o  LYFR  GWYN  HRYDDERCH  pi  oed 
krist  j  iSJS  I  ag  a  ysgrifennais  ine  oi  km'  ej'yn  o.k.  /  -lOoy  / 

Mar:  Ger:  ap  Erbin  :  Panet  auet  Gereint  ded  agoret  ...         b 
blavr  blaen  ev  ravn  yn  aryant 

122       Katwallaii  kyn  noe  dyuot  ae  goruc  an  digouot  ....  c 

kyueruydom  ny  am  eluet 

125       Sefvch  allan  vorynyon  a  syllyvcli  werydre     ....  d 

a  welei.'S  ar  dy  bentan  .  /- 

131       Eryr  eli  ban  y  lef  llewssei  gvyr  llyn     ....  e 

myt  gviv  klein  ytli  gvbin  y  grech .  / 

142  Eng^<"^  Mab  claf:  Groreiste  ar  vryn  acrvyn  vym  bryt  .  .         / 
cus  dyn  yman  yv  cas  Dvw  viy  .  / 

149  Englynion  JLyicarch 

Kyn  bum  kein  vaglavc  bum:  kyffes  ciriavc     ....  g 

elvch  llu  a  llvybyr  arnav .  / 

167  Etiglt/nion  llyivarch  y  vab  : 

Maen  wynn  tra  vum  yth  oct     ....  h 

Maen  wynn  nac  adav  dy  gyllell ,  / 

1G9  Ac  vellg  drwj  stremio  yn  graffyn  e  llyver  meam  lie  gole  ac  ym  pclydr  yr  haul 
hcrii'jjd  tywyllet  oed  yr  scrifen  ai  henct  Dvv  saturn  yv  hynn  y  scithvet  die  ar  xx  o 
vis  chwefrol  ....  IS'}' 3 .  j 

a  minnev  ai  Scrifennais  allan  o  law  yr  vn  rryw  Risiart  Lanyford  y  24  die  o  fis 
Medi  .  .  1607. 

Ac  yma  y  terfyna  y  kopi  o  LYFn  gwyn  Rrtddeech 


O  hynn  allan  y  hei  di  hengerdd  a  ysgrifennais  i  o  Imu  Rocsicr  Morys 

171  Amser  mei  m.iith  ddydd  nevd  rrydd  rroddi     ....         i 
ny  bo  di  dawl  Nest  nef  boed  eiddi      Ein    ap  Gicalchmai 

172  Arioyrain  Madawg  ap  Meredydd 

Ai'ddwyreaf  naf  o  naw  rran  //  vynglierdd     ....  /; 

a  mi  VL'ivdd  i  mewn  a  chwi  allann  .  /  Kynddelw 

174  Marw  Ysgafn  :  Eex  regwm  rrybydd  rrwydd  y  voli  ...         I 
ymhlith  phvyf  gwifion  gwciin  Enlli  Meilyr  brydydd 

176  31ar:  Gr:  a]}  Kynan 

Elieen  net'mor  rhyfedd  y  rhyveddawd     ....  m 

gan  glain  gloyw  addef  yn  nef  drefed  „  „ 

183  J  Ddvw :  Kyvarchaf  i  Ddvw  ddwywawl  weini     ....       n 
erbyn  brawd  trindawd  trined  .  /         Gwalchmai  ap  Ileilir 

Llyma  amrafaeliou  bethav  a  gopiwyd  allan  or  Llyfr  do  o  Gacr  vyrddin 
medde  Roesier  Morys 

188  Gwledie  arbeuic  Erbyn  attad  &c.  See  Pen:  MS 

190  Gogonedtlawo  arglwydd  hanpych  gwell  &c.  „ 

191  Arddwyreaue  tri  trined  ia  celi  &c.  ), 

192  In  cnv  Domini  mev  i  voli  &c.  „ 


i,  page  S6 

o 

35 

P 

36 

1 

39 

t 

A   A    2 

1,  page  5V  a 

it 

S2     b 

»» 

S7    c 

)] 

S8    d 

>i 

41     e 

>» 

70    f 

i* 

job  y 

it 

71    li 

„ 

73     i 

tt 

~S    k 

»» 

97b  I 

») 

97c  m 

») 

100    n 

„ 

101     0 

»» 

i03    p 

»> 

103b  q 

»j 

106     r 

t) 

107    s 

(508  rE>fIARtH   MAlSfCrSCRitT   111. 

19-1-  Dv  dy  varcli  dv  dy  gappan  &o.  See  Pen:  MS. 

195  Kyutaw  gair  a  ddywedaw  &o.  „ 

196  Beudith  y  weuwas  ir  dec  diyrnas  &o.  „ 

197  Eendith  naw  toryw  new  it  kelvydd  &o.  „ 

198  Brenin  gwirthwiu  gwyrth  vchaw  &o.  „ 

202  Kantreghis  vygwiso  amhoen  &o.  „ 

203  Ileb  goffav  Dvw  dawn  diffryd  &o.  „ 
20G  Ban  aned  Gereint  oedd  agored  &o.  „ 
208  Dvw  in  kymortli  in  nerth  in  portli  &o.  „ 
213  Asswynaf  nawdd  Dvw  diamhev  &o.  „ 

215  Kanis  koegawc  y  sy  mor  evi'awc  &o.  „ 

216  Tai'w  trin  an  vjddin  blawdd  &c.  „ 

220  Kyd  karwi  vi  morva,  tasaa  vi  mov  pvr  &e.  „ 

221  Marchawel  a  gyrch  y  dinas  &o.  „ 

223  Godwryw  a  glyvaw  ar  glawr  //  Maelenydd  &o.  „ 

224  Kyvarchaw  im  rhi  rhad  wobeith  &c.  „ 

226  Seithenhin  saw  di  allau  ao  edryoh  &c.  „ 

228  Tec  yd  gan  yr  adaien  ar  terwydd  bren  &c. 

Hyd  ywa  (^om  tyb  i)  *^  yr  ysijrifc^inodd  Roessier  Morys  cillan  or 
lAyfr  do  0  Gaervyrddin 

230  CredoTal: — Ciist  ^essu  celi  i  ti  i  coelia     ....  t 

onid  mi  Taliessin  nid  os  gyfarwydd  Taliessin 

231  Kyghorion  Tal: — Xa  fid  esscud  dy  law  ar  Iw  aiivdon  u 

na  vid  drwg  rhyngod  ath  gymedeithion     .... 
Nac  ymddiriaid  oud  i  Ddvw  ai  ddisgyblion . 

232  Oiodl  vol:  i  Eys  ap  Gr:  op  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Edn:  vyclian  o  Von 

Rhys  ap  Grufiudd  f vdd  f eiddiaw  rhvddiawdr  //  rhyssedd  .  .    v 
rhaidd  rhoddiawc  llbys  frowys  fri  Einion  offeiriad 

242  _7  Grist:  Arglwydd  Dvw  kvlwydd  yw  keli  //arglwydd  ...       w 
yu  uvw  enoed  yno/i'/  yna  •  /  Lewis  Glyn  hotid 

264       Ef  a  wnaeth  Panton  ar  lawr  glynn  Ebron     ....        x 
a  vydd  diogel  i  Vryttania  Taliessin 

269       Goriiclicl  dduw  golychir  ymliob  va     .     .     .     ,  ij 

kacl  yin  drvgaredd  a  diwedd  da .  /  „ 

277    y  X  gorcK^ — I  mae  Duw  /  n  /  gorcliymyn     ....  s 

o  myniii  nef  pan  ddelych  '  Mr,  Talai ' 

279   y  X  gorch" — Moes.scn  yr  hen  wr  hynod  //  a  vyunodd  ...     a 
na  da  eraill  nai  dirocdd./  Bajf  ap  Robert 

282  Anima  Christi  sanctified  me  .  &c.  &e.       See  p.  71  above  &o. 

284  Bystyl  y  Beirdd :  KXar  o  gamarfer  a  ymarverant     ...       b 
on!  kler  a  goddion  a  lladron  difwyniant  Taliessin 

£86  Tif  a  ddamueiniodd  ar  amser  yn  Uydychen  ir  Saeson  oganv  y  fiymrv  .  .  . 
(jail  ddywedvd  nad  oedd  vn  ysgolhaic  da  o  Gymro  .  .  .  yna  y  kododd  hymro  .  .  . 
Oionacd  y  Sais  gorev  i  ddysgeidieth  o  honoch  vydr  yn  lladin  .  .  .  yn  Saesnec  neo 
yn  Gymraec,  oni  chystadia  i  evo  gojcnmcli  y  kjmro  .  .  .  ac  am  liyiiny  y  (fWnaeth 
ef  yr  awdui  sacstiec  l:onn  Sfc.        I'ub:  by  the  Early  English  Te.vt  Society,  1880. 

jO  michti  ladi  owr  leding  //  to  liaf     ....  c 

ei  kan  no  mo  tw  kwin  off  miclit    jf.  r/p  HJiy}  no  7/.  Swrdwal 


*  It  is  clear  that  John  Jones  did  not  see  the  original  MS. 
I  Sec  Pen.  MSS.  90  (p.  149)  and  98b  (p.  69). 


JOHN  JONES  OB'  GELLI  LWDY.  COO 

291  jElnghjnion  a  vv  rhwng  Try  stem  ap  Trallwch  a  GwalchniM 

np  Gwyar :  Abrvvysgl  vydd  tonn  anveidrol     ....  a 

ac  a  vynnych  rci  ai  gwnnf  .  / 

2do       Rhyfeiid  na  pliwyllwn  rhyfic  na  ddaliwn    ....  b 

yna  y  diolir  pob  anwiredd  Dd:  ddv  o  Hiraddvc 

301       Goruchel  Ddvw  golychir  ymliob  da     ...     .  c 

gaffael  trvgaredd  a  diwedd  da  .  /    See  p.  269  above  .    Taliessin 

310  Kyffes  T. — Benedisite  domini  drwy  nertli  Jessv     ...         d 
Ay  drvgaredd  //  a  arclia  „ 

3  12  Ymddiddan  y  saint  a  Chybi  wrth  fyned  i  ynys  Enlli 

Pan  ocdd  saiu  seiicdd  Vrevi     ....  e 

yn  dwyn  o  bob  kyfelrhi  /  Ameu  /  Gwandrvdd 

3 1 4  Mar:  Rhys  ap  Mred:  ap  JRhys  a  laddwyd  yn  Jorh  y  gan 
iarll  hernho  wedi  lladd  lle'n  ap  Gr:  ap  lle'n 
Arddwyreaf  naf  iieirthiad  //  teirnedd     ....  / 

dawn  atlam  dinam  Dvw  ara  dauad  Bleddyn  fardd 

316  Mol:  esgoh  Bangor  ac  ymliwiad  ac  ef  am  e.iklysso  yr 
Beirdd  a  rnawrhav  yr  kerddorion  .  / 
Avglwydd  Grist  kvlwydd  kalonn  //gyflawnrad     ...         g 
gwr  prvdd  o  vor  rlivdd  //  byd  vor  ywerddon  .  /    jfcr:  Bcli 

320  J ddiolch  am  gleddyf  i  Ririd fla'idd 

Mae  ym  Vlaidd  am  kar  om  kaffael  //  wrthaw     ...         /* 
namyn  i  vlaidd  glyw  y  glevvaf  KynMelw 

321  Mol:  Gr:  Maelor  ap  Mred:  ap  Bleddyn  ap  kynfyn 

Ysydd  yn  arglwydd  evrgledd  ganllaw     ....  i 

Dvw  o  nef  a  vo  nerth  iddaw .  /  .  JLygad  gwr 

323  Mol:  TL'n  argl:  y  wavn  ap  Gr:  arg:  Dinas  Bran 

Hanffych  well  hydd  bell  bwyll  ardderchawc    ...  k 

trvgaredd  gan  Ddvw  trvgarawc  „         „ 

324  Owdl  a  ganwyd  yn  y  llvydd  i  lias  Trahaiarn  ap  Karadoc, 

a  meilir  fab  Rhiwallon  ap  Kynfyn — Gr:  ap  Kynan  ai 
lluddaicdd  a  chyrch  deisyfyd  o  Jiyd  nos  Edrach  storia  Gr: 
ap  Kynan  :  Gwolychaf  im  Ehen  rex  awyr     ....  / 

traian  iios  yd  ith  ladder  Meilir  brydydd 

326    Y  han  hychan  i  L'n  ap  Jer:  dwndmyn  ap  Oiv:  Giiiynedd . 

Kyfarcliaf  ym  Rheu  kyfarcliawr  awen     ...  m 

i  cryr  kymwyr  kymod  a  thi .  /    llowarch  prydydd  y  modi 

330  Marw  ysgafn  :  Erbyn  fi  fy  rlii  rbwyf  bedyddiawl    ...  ji 

yn  liyrnas  nef  naf  ysbrydawl./  Bleddyn  fardd 

Maricnadeu  Ow:  Goch  ap  Gr:  ap  TL'n  ap  Jer:  Drwyndton  Sfc. 
332       Doethyw  am  Owain  doethwawr  //  oi  golled    ....  o 

aerwalch  arwyddfalch  Ywain  .  /  Bleddyn  fardd 

334       Angall  o  ddyall  ydd  ym  ynddaw     ....  p 

liaelfab  rad  i  dad  ai  dvg  attaw  „  ,, 

336  ^lar:  HAjwelyn  ap  Gr: 

Krist  (fawr)  arglwydd  rbwydd  rbodd  a  arcbaf    .     .     ,     .  q 
yn  rhann  trvgaredd  fowredd  fwyaf  .  /  Bleddyn  fardd 

Marwnadeu  Dd:  ap  Gr:  ap  JUn 

338       Uy  arglwydd  klvdlwydd  klod  addas  //  vcbel   .  .  r 

lleiddiad  argleidrad  arglwydd  „         „ 

340       Dvw  dy  nawdd  rhac  tawdd  tan  llachar  //  vffern     ...        s 
gwawr  gwerthfawr  (gwrthaw)  boed  trvgar .  / 


(570  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   111. 

342  Mar:  Dd:  ap  Gr:  ap  Owain  brogyntyn  ap  Mad:  ap  Mrcd: 

Dvw  a  ddoe  attaw  bvdd  wylaw  byd     ....  a 

lie  mae'r  mab  ar  fad  ar  tec  ysbryd  .  /  Bleddyn  fardd 

344  Mar:  Ow;  Gwynedd :  Ocliaf  i  ddvw  o  ddofod  i  laith  ....  6 
val  y  dylysc  gwymon  gan  oddaith    Daniel  ILosgwrn  mew 

316  Etto:  Ni  cbawQ  pe  byddwn  kelfydd     ,     .     .     ,  c 

difvncr  vcher  ac  echwydd .  /  „  j, 

348  Mar:  Rhys  Grvc :  JLawer  deigr  hydyr  aer  ar  hynt  ...         d 

krair  oedd  i  Ivoedd  i  law .  /       ILowarch  brydydd  y  moch 

349  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap:  K. — Howel  diogel  diogan  //  deyrn  .  .  .  e 

arghvydd  bod  hy  wydd  Howel  ILowarch  B.  y  moch 

352  Jr  Grog:  Mae  /  n  /  rbwymedic  iawn     ....  / 

ar  ysbryd  glan  rhad  rhod  odidog .  /  Anon 

353  Englynion  Kad  goddev  nev  Kad  achren 

(a)  Karngraff  vy  march  rhagottoyw  &c,  neu         Gwydion  g 
{b)  Karngraff  dy  varch  yu  y  dydd  kad  &c.  ap  Don 

355  I^'Iae  pry  atkas  is  kaer  Satinas     ....  h 
Henway  jvj  tair  ffynyn  :  o  waylod  eigion  .                Anon 

356  Ban  oed  saint  sened  Vreii     ....  i 
Yn  duyn  o  bob  kyfiliorni  .                       {cf.  p.  \2,2  above) 

358       A  glywaist  ti  gant  kynwyd     ....  k 

raid  urt  amhuyl  piiyl  paraud  .  / 

361  '  Neuad  Howel  liygel  Legl  /  newyd  druc  &c.  Anon   I 

362  Rye  guyc  wryc  wlyc  nyc  dryc  drist  &c.  m 
b.       Unig  dyrn  trais  dilwyrn  trusgl     ....  n 

laun  drygwaed  krindraed  kroendrusgl 

363  Kyuc  yu  dalu  ki  cuydalua  &c.  o 

b.       Rayadr  oergri  kadr  ar  grukiedau  //  bae     ....  p 

kuys  deugur  ir  kostogion 

364  Nid  oes  air  o  wir  heb  foliant  ir  drindod     ....  q 
ygW^  y  drindod  a  Luusiffer  .  /                                Taliessin 

866  Ac    yno  y  bu  Daliessin  oni  oed    dair  bluyd  ar  dec  &c.  yna 
yr  act  Elffin  ap  Gwydno  ar  wabod  i  lys  Maelgun   &c. 

Kler  o  gam  arfer  amarferant     ....  r 

am  watwor  ^essu  ai  was.sanaet*./  Taliessin 

3G8*     Teuc  cui  bosveird  ffeilstion  anhylwyd  s 

ni  wydoc  cui  rannu  rung  gwir  a  celwyd 
Myii  y  syd  dewin  /  a  privard  kyflredin     .... 
a  bunnu  a  wna  diwed  am  faelgun  Gwyned 

37 If     kyntaf  im  luniwyd  i  av  lun  dyn  gluys     ....  t 

duu  argluyd  yn  ryd  am  rydhawys .  /  Taliessin 

372  Kyjfes  T. — Benedicite  domini  druy  uert  Jessu  .     .     .      w 

dy  drigared  //  a  arcaf 


374  Lyma  dau  bennod  o  hen  gerd  .  .  a  esgrifennais  if  alan  o  lau 
syr  George  Owen  Harris  ....   ISiors  owens  argl:  y  liemais  .  .  a 


*  John  Jones  has  doubts  whether  there  should  be  a  brciik  io  the  text  here, 
f  Nearly  a  page  is  left  blauk  for  the  beginning  of  this  piece. 


JOHN  JONES   OP  GELLI   LYVDY.  671 

roes  y    dolen  o  femrun  i  syr  Siors  in  esgrifennu  ond  nid  oed  syr 
Siors  yn  deual  yr  hen  gerd  ^c. 

Dyt  dvuit  tregit  deweint     ....  a 

guae  vrth  mor :  nad  gurthtir  a  urthrich  ?  Meugan 

378  Kywrisset  Gvynet  a  Dehevparth 

[NJYdui'chawuy  duv  ar  pluif  Brithon  b 

aruit  Hew  euit  lluit  o  Mon     .... 

llv  bid  ae  guyi^po  followed  by  g  blank  lines 

380       [N]id  oes  air  o  wir  heb  foliant  ir  Driadod     ....        c 
Ynguyd  y  drindod  a  Luusiffer  .  /  Taliessin 

382       A  garo  moliannu  molianed  y  penna     ....  d 

a  garo  kael  iechyd  arced  ir  goruea 

384  jl  fragment  with  translation  by  D.  Jones  vicar  of 
IL.  vair  D.  Choyd. 
[E]f  a  wnaet  panton  ar  laur  Glynn  ebron  &c,  c 

Ouncta  cum  rerum  sapiens  creator  &c. 

388      Inclex  hujus  Libri — in  a  late  hand.  / 


MS.  112  =  Heu.    274      Llyfr    Sion    ap  Wiliam  ap 

Sion  O  hen  Gowyddev.  Poetet.  Paper  ;  11|  x  7-|  inches  ; 
882  pages,  plus  11  ruled  and  11  unruled  folios  left  blank;  in  the 
autograph  of  John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy  ;  bound  in  leather. 

For  an  account  of  the  sources  of  this  MS.  see  pages  320,  509,  510,  and  605 
below.  Pages  1-658,  1.  6,  are,  ■with  the  exception  of  the  first  leaf,  in  excellent 
preservation:  these  were  written  before  the  close  of  1610.  A  few  years  later 
John  Jones  adopted  a  different  recipe  for  making  his  ink  which  contained  some 
ingredient  which  has  proved  destructive  to  the  paper  wherever  the  ink  was  laid 
on  thick  as  in  the  large  initials  &c.  Pages  658, 1.  7  to  the  end,  written  for  the 
most  part  before  the  close  of  1619  (p.  831)  are  in  a  brittle  state  in  many  places 
owing  to  the  use  of  corrosive  ink.  Note  also  the  change  in  the  orthography  at 
p.  658. 

1  f  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  Tvdvr  ap  Ho:  i  erchi  march  i  H.  Itonwy 
Khodd  vraisc  a  gair  heddiw     ....  g 

Hvw  konwy  farch  hacknai  fydd  .  /  Rhobert  Leiaf 

•i.   Y  X  Gorch" — ILowrodd  a  roes  i  Voesscn     ....  h 

dysgwn  ac  evrwn  bob  gair .  /  Ediv:  ap  Rhys 

7  Jr  Byd:  Ebrwydd  i  doeth  a  braidd  dal     ....  i 

drvgaredd  a  diwedd  da .  /  Mred:  ap  Rhys 

10  J  Ddvw  :  Pvvy  yw  /r/  gwr  pie  /r/  goron     ....  k 

dan  i  nawdd  bob  dyn  i  nef./  Gr:  Grvc 

12  fr  Byd:  Un  fodd  -jvf  j v  j  byd  kyngyd  kel     .     .     .     .  I 

hvd  a  lliw  nid  gwiw  /  n  /  gwaitli  D'  Sion  Kent 

15  jfr  Byd  :  Yr  vn  bai  ar  yn  bowyd     ....  ?n 

ir  wledd  hir  arlwyodd  hwnn  .  /  Ow:  Gicynedd 

22  f  erchi  Telyn :  Proliad  kyfarf  brynarfaes     ....  n 

dewis  gwraic  dwywes  gwragedd  .  / 

Gr:  fych:  ap  Gr:  ap  Edn'^ 

25  /  erchi  kyfrwy  SfC. :  ^aitb  ar  fin  ni  therfynwyd     ,     .     .     .      o 
oediawc  wyf  ydiw  ai  gwerth  Rys  Brydydd 


672  PENIAUTH   MANUSCRIPT   112. 

28  Atteb  i  gowydd  Mred:  ap  Rhys  dros  8.  Evtyn* 

Dihareb  gwir  o  hirynt     ....  a 

i  bawl  o  gwna  oe.d  a  hi  ./    fefan  Vychan  ap  J.  ap  Adda 

32  /  erchi  march :  Y  Hew  /  n  /  aer  ar  Haw  /  n  /  wrol  ....  6 
av  oi'wydd  a  orevraf  llowdden 

35  jf  erchi  hyddgen :  Y  gwr  a  chwn  a  gyrcli  hydd  ....  c 

oed  yr  hydd  ir  dyn  ai  rhoes  „ 

37  _f  ei-chi  main  melin :  Pwy  oil  a  gawn  pell  i  gyd  .  .  .  .  d 
a  roe  ddwydorth  vrddedic  Simi  keri 

41  Etto :  Mao  enaid  rhydd  y  min  traetli     ....  e 

bendith  y  tair  Mair  amen  Lewis  Daron 

44  J  syr  Tomas  ap  dd:  a  Gronwy  ap  Dd:  a  ll'n  ap  Ho: 
i  erchi  main  melin 
Uchel  mab  Madoo  vychan     ....  f 

kaer  dro  a  chymro  /  n  /  i  chael .  /  Ho:  Reinallt 

47  J.  W.  Lewis  o  Brysaddfed  a   Lewis  ap  Ow:  o  Vodeon 
a  Rol:  ap  Mred:  a  Hmu  ap  Dd:  ap  Rys  i  erchi 
main  melin  ir  Dr  Elis  Prys  a  syr  Robert  ap  Rys. 
Y  mae  wrsib  a  mowr  son     ....  g 

diav  i  pair  hwnn  dav  oi  pris  .  /  Gr:  Hiraethoc 

51  JLyfr  Ply  gain:  Y  gwr  ar  llyfr  geirwir  llwyd  ....  h 
degan  avr  an  dwc  i  uef .  /  jevan  dv  y  Bilwc 

53  jf  Veiric  ap  Rhys :  Mawr  iawn  ith  gar  Meirionydd  .  .  .  i 
a  dvach  yw  dy  ewythr  Tvdvr  Fenllyn 

56  f  Sion  ap  Mred:  i  erchi  arfav  gwnion  i  Robin  ddv. 

Od  air  i  rifo  dewrion     ....  h 

OS  a  vy  mendith  i  Sion .  /  Rhobin  ddv 

59  jf  Sion  moel  i  erchi  Siak  ab  i  Hvw  Lewis  . 

Doed  wyr  Mownt  ar  deit  ir  mor     ....  I 

diu  wyf  natto  Dvw  i  gael .  /  Rhobei-t  Leiaf 

62  jf  S.  TVy?m  or  twr  ap  Rhobert  .  .  i  erchi  Bwkled  i  Domas 

Mae  vn  sawdiwr  mewn  sidan     ....  m 

tair  oes  y  twr  tros  y  tal .  /  Morys  ap  Ho:  ap  Tvdvr 

65  J  erchi  hiling  gwely  gan  Elin  gwraig  hynfiiu  up 
Dd:  ap  Jthel  Vychan 
Aur  Angharad  law  arian     ....  n 

dair  ocs  i  roi  devryw  win .  /  Lewis  Glyn  Kothi 

68  }  syr  Gr:  ap  Sion  a  ffiuc  ap  Firs  Salysbri  i  erchi 
Geifr  i  Harri  konwy 
Gwrandewch  gwir  vn  dwyawr     ....  o 

kaf  fymod  akw  finnav  Lewis  ap  Edwart 

71       Gwrda  gwych  llewych  llawir     ....  p 

tal  glio  Grvffydd  Gethin  goch  .  /  Tvdvr  Penllynn 

74  JDd:  ap  Ho:  /  gof  I  i  erchi  Baslart  {ne  gyllell  hynydd  .  i  , 

wdkneiff) :  ILe  kyfing  dirfing  derfysc     ....  q 

ysgwyr  honn  ysgoriaw  vel  hi  ysgwario  hydd     R.  G.  or  yri 

78       Howel  vrddedig  haelwalch     ....  r 

drwssa  brag  dros  i  bregeth .  /  ^olo  Goch 

*  Ystod    hir    wastad  hoyivrym — gvvel  "  yn  y  227  clolen  om  pvmed   llyfr   i  o 
Gowyddev." 


JOHN  JONES   OF   GELLI   LYVDY.  673 

81  Atteb  ir  braiod  llwyd  dros  syr  Ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  yffeiriad 

Tec  oedd  g'}'nnyrcb  hygyrch  liardd     ....  a 

maes  moel  mwy  i  vs  no  rnavch  .  /  ^olo  Gocfi 

83  J  yrrv  j  y  j  ddraic  koch  at  syr  TVm:  Tomas  o  Hay  (an  i 
gytcliv  gwregis  avr 

Y  ddraig  bab  arynaic  bobl     ....  b 
ar  gerdd  ir  marchoc  vrddawl .  /              Ithys  Goch  or  Yri 

87  Atteb :  Satbrodd  avr  seithradd  wryd     ...  c 

ac  yunill  y  Morganuwc  .  /  IL'n  ap  y  moel 

90  Mol:  Aberkonwy  ai  chivriv :  Y  ddewisdref  ddiestron  ....      d 
na  chaer  i  wyr  na  chwrw  well .  /  J^fan  ap  Gr:  Leiaf 

94  jfr  liybydd  ar  Hael :  Kybydd  vab  difedydd  die     .     .     .     .     e 
vab  iiaf  nei'tb  vab  nef  yn  ol .  /  Sion  Tvdvr 

96  _7  Rys  ap  Dd:  Goch  i  ddiolch  am  Eleirch 

Y  ddav  gyw  oedd  wyav  gynt     ....  f 
tri  meirch  tros  eleirch  y  sydd .  /                            ILowdden 

99  Dewisgerdd  odidoc  o  ivroliaeth  Sion  brenin  Evtopia 

Pwy   a  than  poeth  oi  enav     ....  g 

uatto  Uvw  vn  oud  ty  di .  /  Anon 

102  Mol:  Harri  nil :  Y  tarw  or  mwnt  eryr  Mon     ....        h 
ir  Haw  ddeav  /  r  /  hoU  ddayar  Leivis  Morganwc 

106  ^  Ow:  Glytidwr :  Kefais  er  na  fedrais  fydr     ....  i 

a  chwnkwest  Hers  Hensieat  hen  .  /     ^.  ap  Rhyd.  ap  J.  IL. 

109  _7  Ow:  ap  Mred;  ap  Tvdvr  .   .  yngharchar  yn  Niwgat 

cyn  torri  i  ben  :  Gwyddom  dewi  ac  adde  ....  k 

yn  rhydd  i  benn  mynydd  Mdn  .  /     J.  Gethin  ap  J.  TLeisn 

112  JO.  Glyndwr  :  Y  gwr  bir  nitb  gar  Harri     ....  I 

dwc  ni  on  rhwym  dygn  yn  rhydd .  /  Jolo  Goch 

116  Mol:  Harri  iarll  Ritsmtont  .  .  kyn  ymladd  a  Rich,  iii 

Amae  /  r  /  beirdd  i  mae  /  r  /  byd     ....  m 

am  ro3  mary  or  ymrysson  .  /       Dd:  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  Gr: 

118  Mol:  Dd:  goeh  ap  Mred:  a})  Gr:  ap  Adda  o  Lan  Badarn 

Breiniol  wyd  a  barwn  waed     ....  n 

ac  iarll  hen  fycb  o  wr  llwyd  .  /  Leivis  Glynn  Kothi 

121  Mol:  Dd:  llwyd  ap  Dd:  ap  Rhydderch 

Hawddamawr  blaenawr  y  blaid     ....  o 

a  Haw  Dduw  rhac  Uadd  i  wyr  Dd:  Nanmor 

123    Yr  Vngkwest :  Gwae  ni  vlined  tynged  tost     ....  p 

a  mawl  in  prynnwr  Amen .  /         Morgan  ap  Hvw  Lewys 

127  Kyngor  i  Sion  Salbri  o  Rvc  ap  Rhobert  Salbri 

Y  Hew  o  Rvg  garllaw  /  r  /  allt     ....  q 
aed  ar  Ddvw  dad  dvrddo  di .  /                             Sion  Tvdvr 

130  Kymod  rhwng  Sr  Rissiart  Btohlai  ...  a  Mr.  Lewis 

Os  Mou  yw  ynys  y  mel     ....  r 

vwch  vwch  i  del  i  chwi  yob  dav  .  /  Sion  Brwynoc 

13.5  Mol:  Rissiart  Herbart :  Y  tarw  dewr  or  tir  dyrys    ....       s 
Hirbortb  Dvw  Herbert  itb  dal  Tvdvr  Aled 

138  Mol:  Dr.  Wm:  Glynn  :  Bu  anwyl  ar  bawb  ennyd  ....         t 
moes  vnwaith  ymgvssanv  .  /  syr  Dd:  Trefor 


674  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   112. 

141  ^  erchi  kymod  archidgon  Bwhlai 

Y  teirw  tec  i  tretad     ....  a 

gwnaed  yntav  faddav  a  f v  .  /  syr  Dd:  Trefor 

144  f  erchi  Geifyr  :  Gwr  klaf  ydiw  syr  Dafydd     ....  b 

uar  geifr  vyth  nai-  gwr  i  f on  .  /  „  „ 

147  Atteb  :  Pa  berson  pwy  a  byrssiodd     ....  c 

Amen  iia  geifr  na  mynod .  /  Gr:  ap  Tvdvr  ap  Ho: 

150  Ysgrqff  Porthaethicy :  Y  fferi  vawr  i  Hair  Vou     .     .     .     .    d 

porth  ]fessv  ir  porthweission  .  /  Syr  Dd:  Trefor 

151  Atteh  :  Y  donn  gyfaiillon  gefnllwyd     ....  e 

dyna  sydd  raid  amdanvn  .  /  Gr:  ap  7'vdv)-  ap  Ho: 

155  Atteb:  Gruffydd  o  wcnydd  anwyl     ....  / 

ai  /  n  /  serthach  kroesso  wrthyd .  /  Syr  Dd:  Trefor 

158  Atteh  :  Grvffydd  o.s  owydd  ydwy     ....  g 

er  gair  mawr  nawdd  gwr  im  oes       Gr:  ap  Tvdvr  ap  Ho: 

161  jf  Mred:  ap  Tomas  o  Borthamal  i  erchi  alarch 

Pwy  yw  jv  I  dwylaw  pie  /r/  delyn     ....  h 

a  mynnv  od  y  Mon  wen  .  /  syr  Dd:  Trevor 

164  Atteb  :  Y  gog  vedleilas  a  gan     ....  i 

a  lliw  gwynn  yn  Haw  i  gcnnad        Gr:  ap  Tvdvr  ap  Ho: 

167  Atteb :  Holl  wyl  Vair  vy  llaswyr  fv     .     .     .     .  k 

deirnos  kai  ynyd  arno  .  /  IVm:  ap  Dd:  ap  j.  ap  IVn 

169  jfr  alarch  ello  :  Howel  Adda  hael  oeddwn     ....  / 

berwi  /  r  /  korfF  a  brie  koed  .  /  Gr:  ap  Tvdv-  ap  Ho: 

171  Pan  hevrwyd  ir  bardd  roddi  i  gred  i  wrach  wrth  ylta 

yn  y  Rhos :  Elis  vn  a  ddewissir     ....  m 

Elis  y  tir  ar  plas  tec  .  /  Tvdvr  Penllyn 

174  Atteb  :  Elis  o  ddyffryn  Alvn     ....  n 

ir  gwr  kocli  nae  ir  wraic  hen  .  /  jfefati  brydydd  Hir 

176  y  erchi  hi :  Mewn  llevad  mae  vn  llawen     ....  o 

ys  hwy  a  fydd  kowydd  y  Ici  lUn  ap  Gvttvn 

178  Dychan  i  Siaivnsler  aci  Redsiester  Bangor  faivr 

Myfi  yw  I  V  I  bardd  niyfyr  benn     ....  p 

draw  byth  na  ro  Dvw  i  bod./  Rhob*  ap  Dd:  ILwyd 

182  ^r  loraig  dda  ar  ddrwg :  Dilesg  yw  byw  yn  deilwng  .   .      .  q 
gida  phob  gwreigdda  gadarn  Gr;  Hiraelhoc 

185       Dydd  da  ir  llwynoc  or  ogof    ....  r 

ffarwel  rhaid  ym  ffo  ir  allt .  /  Anoyi 

189  Mol:  Jago  i  a  brad  y  gwnpowdr  a  Ivniodd  Persi  SfC, 

Dyn  a  veddwl,  dwl  yw  /r/  dawn     ....  s 

geidwad  bir  gida  teiroes  ,  /  Roessier  Kyffin 

194  Mar:  S'  Rys  ap  To.-  —Mae  Eliyw  odwrdd  ymhrjdain  .  .  .  .  t 
aros  yr  iarll  wyr  Syr  Rys.-/  Leivis  Morgannicg 

197  Mar:  Rissiart  fychan  arglwydd  Bleddfach 

Pregeth  i  Elen  Gethin     ....  u 

ir  gwr  ai  fab  fo  Mab  Mair  .  /  Lewis  Glynn  Kothi 

200  Mar:  Gronw  ap  Tvd:  ojon  :  Doeth  im  kof  cb  i  ofyn  .  .        v 
Dvw  gwae  fi  ai  dvc  efo  .  /  Gr:  Gwejlyn 

204    Mar:  S.  Eos  :  Drwc  i  nub  a  drigo  /  n  /  ol     .     .     .     .  w 

oes  y  Nvw  i  Sion  Eos  .  /  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 


JOHN  JONES  OF  GELLI  LYVDY.  675 

207  Mar:  Elissae  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  .  -I^Sg  . 

Bid  rhywan  boetri  ennyd     ....  a 

penua  oedd  fo  pan  oedd  fyw  .  /  Lewis  Mon 

211  Mar:  Oio:  a  Gr:  meih  S.  ap  IViys  ap  Ho:  Koetmor 

Gwedd  uychdod  gwao  ddyn  eclidoe     ....  b 

a  bid  ar  bawb  i  bader  .  /  Gr:  ap.  J.  ap  IL'nfijchan 

214.  Mar:  pedair  merched  y  drindod .  j 

Gwae  vyd  trist  gau  ovid  trwm     ....  c 

nid  dim  vrddedic  oiid  Dvw .  /         Morgan  ap    hvw  Lewis 

218  Mar:  TLafar  goch  bythiades  liydwaladyr  ap  Robert 

Ym  kyiiydd  y  mae  kenyf     ....  d 

enaid  y  gwyr  ond  oi  gwn  .  /  Eissiart  Brydydd 

221  Mar:   W'mffre  TLwyd  a  Ddinbych 

Mae  oernad  mawr  a  nych     ....  e 

dwy  oes  yw  mam  dewis  modd .  /  Lewis  ap  Edwart 

225  Mar:  S''  J.  TLwyd  o  Jal :  Mae  oer  gri  am  wr  a  giym  .  .  .  .    / 
da  yw  i  le  gida  Dvw  Iwyd  .  /  Simimit fyclian 

230  Mar:  syr  S.  Pilstwn  :  Troes  oer  gwyn  teirssir  Gwynedd  .  .  .   g 
och  och  am  vrv  ni  chewch  mwy  .  /  Sion  Brwynoc 

233  Dychan  Bedo  Brtvynllys :  Y  dderwen  o  ddav  wryd  ...         h 
gen  y  Ddevlwyn  ac  ni  ddylai .  /  fefan  Devlioyn 

235  Atteb  :  Yr  Eryr  gwyn  ar  war  Gwent     ....  i 

vnwaith  Arthvr  nith  werthaf  Bedo  Brwynllys 

238  Dychan  Sr  Gr:  fychan  :  J  arddail  ail  Arddvr  lys  ...  k 

am  i  ganv  morr  gynnen  I^ong  Lewis 

241  Atteb :  Beuno  oedioc  ban  ydoedd     .     .     .     ^  I 

lliw  'Jfddew  dv  llei  dda  diawl  .  /  Sr  Gi\-  Vychan 

243  J  gynghori  Gr:  ap  Bhys  ap  fefan  TLwyd  .  / 

Tyfarnwr  wyt  wr  lie  i  taria  /  dynion     ....  m 

tvrion  ddyn  Dvw  ai  tro  /  n  /  dda  .  /  I)d:  Baentiwr 

246  Atteb :  Kredais  am  orfod  kredv     ....  n 

otto  yfed  diofal .  /  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Rhys  TLwyd 

249  Atteb:  GrvfEydd  awenydd  iownwycli     ....  o 

dilid  y  modd  yn  dlawd  mwy  .  /  Dd:  Baentiwr 

251       Y  verch  vonheddic  ddigawn     ....  p 

gwr  noeth  hwyr  a  gare  neb  .  /  Anon 

254       Y  ddelw  wenn  ddevliw  6d     .     .     .     .  q 

oni  chair  yn  iach  hiroes  .  /  Bedo  Brwynllys 

256       Y  llwyn  o  bai  oil  yn  ber     ....  r 

nvwr  Ddvw  vyth  vn  awr  ddafydd  Bedo  Aerddrem 

258       Dydd  da  ir  fwyna  a  fv     .     .     .     .  s 

dros  i  bod  deiroes  heb  wr  .  /        Gr:  ap  J.  ap  TL'n  fychan 

260       Y  rhiain  penn  wrheych     ....  t 

oni  cbai  a  f'ynnycb  wenn  .  /  Ho:  Reinallt 

262       Oer  yw  vy  mrou  ar  fy  mryd     ....  u 

a  ddaw  kof  iddi  ai  kar  .  /  Bedo  Brwynllys 

264       Y  Donn  ewynlonn  wenlas     ....  v 

nawdd  Dvw  a  Mair  vn  dydd  mwy  ,  /  Gr:   Grvc 

267        Keissio  vn  or  kvssanav     ....  w 

a  garwn  a  vynnwn  vyth  .  /  Dd:  ap  Edmiont 


C76 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT    112. 


ap  TL'n  up  J.fijchan 

Tomas  y  glynn 

Sion  Phylip 

Dd:  Naninor 

Tomas  Roberts 


f 


Sion  Tvdvr 


269  J  Eiddic :  Pevnydd  yr  wyf  yn  poeni 
oi  ddaiarv  ni  ddorwn  .  /  Gr 

271       Karv  yr  wy  karvaidd  wedd     .     . 
i  gael  o  enaid  i  gwr 

273       y  vorwyn  dec  virain  dal     .... 
ath  nawdd  er  y  gwr  ath  wnaeth  .  / 

276       Yr  eglvrbavn  ar  glaer  bais     .     .     . 
a  dwc  Wenn  o  dy  i  gwr  .  / 

278       Gwae  /  r  /  vn  ferch  a  gare  /  n  /  f wyn 
gylch  amod  gael  i  cliymar  .  / 

281       Mynn  ]fessv  (a  mi  iioswaith)     .     .     . 
bath  orav  o  beth  orall .  / 

283       KvT  sydd  kerais  hoywddyn     .     .     . 
liawdd  i  gall  ddyhvddo  gwr 

286       Gwenu  lawen  gain  olevwawl     . 
euaid  gwyr  ond  a  gerych  .  / 

289       Prvdd  wyf  fal  im  pare  ddyn     .     ,     . 
ni  chaf  farw  nychaf  oric  .  / 

291   ^r  Dyllvan  :  Am  liw  nos  yrnlaen  ia     . 
llwyddiant  ir  braiat  ai  lladdo .  / 

203  f  Vair :  Gwr  wyf  nid  rhaid  gwarafvn     ....  / 

gydoes  a  hi  gida  Saiat .  /  Ho:  ap  DJ. 

296  f  ferch :  Kefais  dec  ymlaen  kyfair     .     .     . 
i  rhaun  a  gaiffi  or  heiniar 

293  Jr  Bad :  A  mi  mewn  mann  a  llannerch     . 
ai  gweled  gwaith  gvvaelod  Qwy  ,  / 

300       y  vvn  lie  ir  el  yn  fynych     .... 
Dvw  or  nef  mor  drvan  wy  .  / 

302       Y  gair  i  verch  a  garaf  fi     .     .     .     .  p 

rhyw  iwyn  dan  yv  havl  nid  oes  .  /  ~  ' 

304   7  Wiliam  Gr:  o'r  Penrhyn  i  erclii  lelyn  S^-c. 
Karv  marched  am  kvriai     .... 
nvw  /  r  /  Ddvw  oedd  waeth  na  ddoe  /  r  /  ddyn 

307      Kwrs  anoeth  kerais  ennyd     .... 

keisso  mwy  ond  kassav  merch  Dd:  ap  Owain 

310  7  wraic  weddw  :  ILoer  wenn  lliw  eira  vnnos     .... 

a  cliael  nef  ddyn  wychlan  wyd .  /  Jefan  tew  hrijdydd 

312  Atteh:  fefan  fawl  winllan  wynllwyd     .... 

a  Dvw  faddav  dy  feddwl./  Mastr  Harri 

315  Atteh:  Y  vvn  deiliw  6d  ar  faes     .... 

moes  drwy  herr  i  meistr  Harri  J.  ieio  brydydd 

317  Mae  kowydd  ynfy  Uyfr  kyntafi  o  gowydde  y  sydd  yn  dechre  fal  hynn  .  j 
Mae  dawn  Dvw  im  dyn  diwael .  /  doh  202  /  yr  hionn  om  tyb  a  wnaeth  Gottor 
Glynn  tros  Mr.  flarri  i  atteh  y  kowydd  vchod .  / 

318  y  ddyn  fanwaith  gyweithas     .... 
kadw  ith  oes  feinioes  ferch  .  / 

320  Ac  felly  y  tcrfyna  y  I  110  j  howydde   yma   y    I  3  j   dydd  o  fis  AwU 

0  .  It.  I  lOO'J  I  y  rhai  a  ysyrivenais  i    allau  0    law  Dd:  ap    Wtlfam   o  blwy 

Llanfair  y-nyffvyn   Idwyd .  j  ap  JJd:  ap   Ll'n   ap   Jevaii  wyn   ap  Eiiion  o  bla^ 
Einion  ynyffryn  hlwyd  .  / 


Bedo  Brwynlli/.ig 
Lewis  Menai 

ap  J.  ap  Rys 

111 
Jolo  Goch 

.     .     ■     .  n 

Hvio  Arwysll 

o 
Bcdo  Brioynllysg 

Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 

Syr  Dd: 
Trefor 


JOHN   JONES   OF  GFXLI    LYVDY.  677 

321  3[ol:  Anni  Go}  :  Braius  o  gvr  bronn  sy  gacad  ....  « 
chwarddaf  lieb  nychv  erddi .  /  .  m.  Jcfan  Dufi 

323  Etto:  Kynydd  ydwyf  yu  kanv     ....  b 

yn  y  poen  bo  i  hwyneb  hi  .  ,,         ,, 

320       Mae  kariad  merch  im  kvriaw     ....  c 

yn  y  mann  iawn  i  minnav  .  Anon 

328  Mol:  y  gwallt :  Doe  i  gwelwn  karwn  pe  i  kaid  .  .  .  .  d 
da  trie  avr  ar  bennfric  bvn  .  J.  ap  M}  ap  J.  llwyd 

330       Y  vvn  gannaid  vaia  gymvys     ....  sr  J)d:  Jones   e 

sercbowglon  liw  binon  haf  .  vicar  IL,  d.  It. 

333  X  vvn  wyl  yw  vy  nolvr  ....  / 
ofn  hynny  yw  vanhrnedd  .                        Bedo  Brxoynllysij 

334  Dyn  wy  a  roed  dan  yr  ia  .  .  .  .  g 
diodde  vvn  kyn  diwedd  vocs  .                                        Anon 

337       Anghynefin  drablin  dro     ....  h 

safied  ai  kar  sy  ievanck .  /  Anvn 

339       Y  vercb  birwen  varchwrys     ....  i 

uiynn  bynn  yn  dokyn  ar  dwr  .  /  syr  Lewys  Devddwr 

341  Mol:  31erch :  Doe  i  gwelais  arswydais  oed     ....  A 

a  gredaist  y  gwr  oediawc  syr  Mement 

344       Y  ddyn  ai  llyfr  yn  i  Haw     ....  I 

Dvw  betb  a  dal  dobaitb  di .  /  Lewys  Mon 

346       Y  vvn  a  all  a  vyuno     ....  m 

na  bwy  /n/  bir  yn  y  boen  bonn .  /        Bedo  Bnvynllysg 

348       Yngwvnedd  i  mae  y  nyweddi     ....  n 

boll  diawl  el  a  bwy  ill  dwy  .  /  Dd:  TLivyd  ysgolhaig 

352      Y  vvn  eglvr  vynygUvenn     ....  o 

a  dodren  o  doi  adrav  .  „  ,, 

355  Atteb :  Y  gwr  tawel  kenhedlfawr     ....  /j 

end  a  ddoelb  venaid  i  Ddvw  .  /  „  „ 

357       Mi  a  oerais  er  morwyn     ....  q 

edrycb  pwy  ne  dorrycb  penn  .  /  Lewis  Mvn 

359  Mol:  ILio  Rhydderch :  ILio  evrwallt  lliw  arian  ....  r 
farw  ILio  friallevwallt  .  /       (See  p.  880)  Dd:  Nanmor 

361  Mol:  gwraig  i  arall :  0  cbar  dyn  val  cliwarav  dis  .  .  .  .  * 
karv  march  i  kair  im  oes  .  /  Bedo  Brioynllysg 

363       Y  vvn  beraidd  vain  bvrwen     ....  t 

pvr  oes  hoiHi  i  pery  sereb  Tomas  ap  Dd:  ap  Edw: 

366       Os  heddiw  im  diswyddir     ....  (See  p.  872)  «< 

nes  kael  y  ddyn  evrwisc  bonn      D.  Nanmor  no  J/.  Benfras 

368  Mol:  Dwynwen  :  Y  vercb  wenn  o  Vrecbeinoc  ....  v 
awn  dan  uawdd  Dwynwen  i  net"  syr  Dd:   Trefor 

370  Mol:  Merch  :  Hyll  y w  /  n  /  gwaith  hollwn  y  gwydd  ...  to 
bonn  oi  bodd  ben  ni  byddaf .  /        S,  ap  Ho:  ap  IL'n  Vychan 

373  K.  dychan  ir  ciddiges  a  mol:  ir  wraig  diciddigvs 

O  ddvw  ys  mawr  o  ddial     ....  x 

eiddigys  gynt  oedd  ^ago  Dd:  ILwyd 


678 


PENIARTH  JIANUSCRIPT   11 2. 


875  f  verch  o  Von  a  ddyfod  am  y  bardd  "  nid  liani  yr  henwyd 
cf  Rhobin  ddv  :  nawdd  Dvw  rhag  y  fatli  liw  ar  wr." 
Y  verch  gwedi  /  r  /  gloil  a  vv     .     .     .     .  a 

a  ro  i  ti  wra  tec  lihobin  ddv  ap  Siankyn  bledrydd 

378  K.  dychan  ir  M  :  y  biogen :  ac  i  Eiddig  .  j 

Ual  ir  oeddwn  gwyddwn  gvr     ....  b 

OS  dof  vddyn  nis  dyddiaf  *ll'n  ap  Dd:  ap  IVn 

H80  Mol:  merch  :  Hawddfyd  amgen  noc  echdoe     ....  c 

havl  y  Vel  yny.s  yw  honn  .  /  Gr:   Gryg 

382  f  verch  wriog:  Y  vvn  a  gvriodd  vwyneb     ....  d 


wrth  yn  bodd  yr  aeth  yii  byd 

3S5       Y  vvn  addwyn  voneiddv^enn     .     . 
oni  chair  bvii  j'n  iach  ir  byd  .  / 

387       Blinais  ya  dwyn  er  mwyn  merch 
gist  Taen  ar  gost  y  vjnwent .  / 

389       Kerais  dan  h^c  or  cvrael     .     .     . 
or  ail  uef  ar  ol  vy  nyn 

391       Y  ddyn  yfiengaidd  wyneb 

poed  gwir  a  ddywetpwyd  gynt  .  / 

398       Mae  rhyw  amwynt  im  rhwymaw 
vn  oed  dydd  ym  a  wnai  tal  .  / 

396       Kerais  ddyn  ifanck  hirwenn     .     . 
oni  chair  oed  yn  iach  wenn 

398       Y  ddyn  am  newidiodd  ddoe     .     . 
OS  haeddodd  anras  iddi/ 

400  Torri  kannoed  troi  Konwy     . 
yn  devwedd  awn  i  dowyll .  / 

401  Y  ddyu  ar  gwallt  dan  avr  gwiw 
Tvyf  ymhoeu  nef  im  henaid  .  / 

403       Y  vorwyn  vwya  er  vn  verch     . 
heb  ordderch  i  neb  erddi 

405       Y  mab  ai  glod  ynihob  gwledd     . 
oil  i  wyneb  llywenydd  .  / 

408       Y  lloer  wenn  a  lliw  /  r  /  wanec 
o  dalia  mwy  diawl  el  a  mi 

410       Y  ddyn  vwyn  addwyn  vonedd     . 
pared  vvn  enaid  vi  /n/  iach 


/         syr  Ow:  ap  Gwilijm 


AnoJi 


Bedo  Aerddreni 


Jefan  ap  IVn  Vychan 


Anon 


f 


Hoivel  Heilin\ 

.     .  k 

Jcfan  Devlwyn 

.     .  I 

Anon 

Rhobin  ddv    m 
ap  Sienltyn  bledrydd 

n 
IIvio  ap  Dafydd 

.     .  0 

Bedo  Brwynllysg 

•     '■'  P 

Rys  ap  Ho:  ap  Dd: 

...  q 

S.  ap  Rys  ap  Morys 


syr  Ow:  ap  Gwilym 


412  Mol:  gwraig  TVeddtv :  Overedd  a  gyfarfv 


nid  gwell  im  enaid  i  gael 


/ 


414       Y  ddyn  wenn  oedd  ddoe  /n/  anwyl 


417 


419 


dyddia  a  mi  diwedd  ym  wyd  ,  / 

Mae  kvr  ymbob  kwrr  im  ais 
vy  Nvw  vy  hvu  vy  nihenydd 

Y  ddyn  gamoledic  ddoeth     , 
am  hyniiy   uef  im  henaid 


Gwilim  tetv  brydydd 

[     .     .     .     . 
syr  Ow:  ap  Gwilym 


Anon 


syr  Ow:  ap  Gwilym 


*  "  o  g-ffnnvd  Menai  "  "  eraill  ai  galwai  Lewis  Aled." 

f  "Bedo  (Aerdresi;)  Br^yulysc  :  "  added  later  in  black  ink,  titles  and signatareB 
being  in  red. 


JOHN  JONES   OF  GELLI   LYVDY.  679 

421  Mol:  gwraig  avail :  Beth  am  pair  yn  ddiweiriach  ....        a 
rliac  enaid  yngwric  innav  .  /  Bedo  Brimjnllysg 

423       Y  dJyn  a  ddaw  yu  vynycli     ....  h 

a  clioron  o  dyrcli  eviaid  Ithobert  Leiaf 

425  Diolch  am  fwa  i  si/r  Lewis  o  Lanngattw,  ma/uich  o  Evenni 

Kann  hawdd  vyd  kanv  ddwyf  i     .     .     .     .  c 

a  Dvw  eilcliwyl  ai  diolcho .  /  Tomas  Terllijs 

428  fr  Ihjthyren  Y:  DvU  a  thoriad  Uethyren     ....  d 

in  Dvw  yr  archwn  yn  dwyn  .  /  Sionffylib 

433  ^Wm:  Huws  esgob  LI.  Eluty  i  erchi  mortvwari  syr  Tomas  Goy  i  S.  Todvr 
a  syr  Tomas  ynfyw:  ac  adrodd  mal  y  kyfarfo  sr  T.  ar  llanhes  {yn 
y  mynydd  ar  amser  pan  oedd  ynghwmpeini  doctor  Elis  Prys)  ac  y 
bv  yenthi :  ar  llanhes  a  ofynnodd  iddo  pwy  oedd  ef  ac  a  ddyfod  ynte 
mae  j  rj  doctor  ;  ar  llanhes  .  .  a  ddvc  yr  etifedd  pan  aned  ir  doctor 
Y  gwr  vrddol  gowii'ddysc     ....  e 

lie  brav  i  vynd  He  bo  /  r  /  vendith  .  /  Sion  Tvdvr 

438  7  s'^  Bened  o  Gorxoen  .  Devbeth  a  red  drwy  yr  gwledydd  .  .  .  f 
o  dda  /r/  Mars  ni  ddevy/n  mwy .  /  Gvttor  Glynn 

441  Atteb  :  Svlieu  ath  geidw  syr  Bened     ....  g 

am  wlan  degwm  yleni  Tvdyr  Penllyn 

443  Alteb  :  Diwcdd  hen  vv  /  r  /  fargen  fav     ....  h 

noc  wyn  i  gcnfigenwr  .  /  Gvttor  Glynn 

446  ILowdden  a  yrrodd  J.  ap  Ho:  Siordwal  drosto  at 

ferch  .  .  hithev  a  barodd  iddo  siarad  trosto  i  hvn 
Gorav  STvj  dd  val  gyrrv  saeth     ....  i 

a  minne  /  n  /  dwyn  meinwen  dec  .  /   J-  a,p  Ho:  Siwrdwal 

449  Atteb:  Gwir  iawn  vv  /  r  /  vargen  venaid     ....  k 

att  vwynen  Lattai  venyw  .  /  ILowdden 

451  K.  i  yrrv  EJn  ap  Gvtvn  yn  llattai  at  Werfvl  Mechain 

Klaf  wyf  eissie  kael  y  vereh     ....  I 

ar  fol  Bol  y  baiol  bid  .  /  Dd:  JLwyd  ap  JL'n  ap  Gr: 

453  Atteb  :  Kennad  wyf  a  wna  kynnen     ....  m 

wissorwy  was  o  Vrien  .  /  IL'n  ap  Gv'tvn 

455  K.  dychan  i  Gvtto  r  Glynn  am  brydv  yn  tocnheithvs 

Dyrogan  yw  draw  a  ganwyf     ....  n 

gwrdd  vydd  y  gair  iddo  vo  .      Ho:  ap  Dd:  ap  J.  ap  Rys 

458  Atteb  :  Eweh  yn  iach  ui  chwenychaf    ....  o 

roesso  He  ni  cliaffo  chwaith  .  Gvttor  Glynn 

461  jfr  kvssan :  Tri  phcth  mawr  i  tra  hofSr  ^ .     .     .     .  p 

o  via  honn  byddwn  vyw  /  n  /  hwy  .  /  ILowdden 

463       Hawddfyd  ir  nos  val  cssai     ....  q 

gwr  gwenn  i  gyd  am  gwraic  i  .  /  Bedo  Aerdrcm 

465       Y'  verch  ddirgel  i  lielynt     ....  r 

o  chwyddodd  yn  iach  iddi  „  „ 

467       Mae  yr  gair  ym  o  garv     ....  s 

hirwallt  y  verch  ai  harwain  .  /  Ho:  Rdnallt 

469  Trymhevai.s  oil  trimis  haf     ....  * 
nim  tawr  pa  van  y  tirwyf          Ho:  ap  Dd:  ap  J.  ap  Bys 

470  Dyn  gwyl  ydwyf  dan  galodi     ....  U 
OS  dyn  ni  vynn  estyu  vocs                     Gr:  ap  Dd:  fychan 


680  PENIARTS  MANUSCRIPT  112. 

472  Mol:  Gwenn  or  Ddol :  Gwn  y  kowydd  a  gaiiaf     .     .     ,     .     a 
vn  awr  dda  ar  Wenn  or  Ddol  .  /  Dd:  Nanmor 

474       Mae  havl  ac  val  dyma  hi     ...     ,  b 

yii  y  glynn  vlvvyddyn  yn  vlaidd  ,  /  Mredydd  ap  Rys 

476  Diolch  am  Gneven :  Kefais  rodd  kof  y  sy  ras     .     .     .     .        c 
am  i  rhoi  ym  or  rhiain  .  /  Gwilim  ap  Jefan  hen 

479       Gwra  mae  /  r  /  verch  a  gerais     ....  d 

a  chwithe  i  minne  Amen  .  /  S.  ap  Ho:  Vychan 

481       Merddin  wyllt  am  ryw  ddyn  wyf     ....  e 

ai  chael  o  vodd  i  chalonn  .  /       (See  p.  873)  fefan  Dyfi 

484       Y  vvn  wych  yw  vy  nichwaen     ....  / 

ni  chair  bvn  er  chwibanv  .  /  Gr:  ap  Dd:    Vychan 

487  y  dyn  a  thyfiad  Enid     ....  g 
ac  yn  vn  awr  im  gwnai  /  u  /  iach  .  /              fefan  hastell 

488  Y  ferch  hir  vawr  i  cherydd     ....  h 
OS  balch  gwyped  eissie  bvn  .  /                         Mred:  ap  Rys 

490       Y  vvn  pam  o  vewn  pvm  mis     ....  i 

dan  ddail  i  down  i  ddolwenn  .  /  Ow:  ap  Sion  ap  Bys 

492       Y  mae  gofal  im  kalon     ....  k 

vy  iiyn  na  bwy  hyn  no  hi  .  /  Bedo  Brwynllysg 

494       Y  wn  a  wnaeth  vwy  no  neb     ....  I 

y  tal  Dvw  ir  tlawd  i  waith  .  /  Gwilim  ap  J.  hen 

497       Qwae  wr  mvl  a  garo  merch     ....  m 

gwnn  esgvs  gwen  i  ysgar  „  „ 

499       Mawr  gennym  awr  ac  ennyd     ...  n 

i  bwrn  ai  dyko  yw  bedd  Gr:  Hiraclhog 

502  Jr  kadach  gwyneb :  ILe  gwn  gael  oil  i  gann  gwlad  ...  o 

nes  i  vod  yn  safadwy  „  „ 

504       Gwenn  ailiv.'  havl  eplenydd     ....  p 

mwyna  verch  boed  amen  vo  .  /    syr  D.  Jones  biker  JL.  d.  h. 

506   Cashethav  Ow:  hyfcliog 

ILyma  gas  oi  dirassedd     ....  q 

gidai  dai  nai  goed  nai  dir  .  /  (No.  190)      „  ,,  „ 

509  Ag  fid  hi/n  1/  tcrfyna  y  190  kowyddev  vchod  y  rliain  oH  a  ysgylfemiais  i 
aliano  Lyfr  Ud:  ai'  Wh:  o  blwy  I.lakfair  Dvfpjiyn  Ki.wvd:  ap  D. 
ap  Ll'n  ap  Jefan  wynti  apEmion  o  bias  Einion.  See  p.  .320  abovc^ 
uote  the  o  law  of  the  one  entry  and  o  Lyfr  of  the  other. 


Yma  y  dechrav  swrn  o  gowyddev  a  ysgrifennais  i  allan  o  law 

WlLIAM  ThOMA.9   ap    BdWABT   d    BOTPAKRI. 

610  ^  Grist:  Y  gwr  eglvr  i  groglith     .     .     . 

Dvw  mawr  rhac  pob  dim  arall  .  /  Sion  Bruujnng 

514  Yfarn  :  Ofnvs  ovidvs  ydwyf    .... 

yn  vn  nod  in  eneidiav  =  /  Wm:  Kynwal 

516  Balchder  :  Oud  rhyfedd  mewn  taer  ovyn     .... 

am  vadde  i  gamev  voddion  .  „  „ 

520  Dioddcfaint  Grist:  Y  gwr  ar  vronn  egored     .... 
ai  vodd  Ddvw  ai  vaddevaint  „  „ 

524  Y  byd  gwaun  a  bod  ai  gwvr     .... 

a  bodd  Dvw  yno  bydd  da  .  /  »  » 


JOHN'  JO^fES   OF   QELLI  LVVDY.  681 

527  Jr  Jcssv  ;  Y  gwr  a  gaiff  gyrrv  gwin     ....  a 

oes  ai  ras  i  Syr  Eissiart  Jefan  Devlwyn 

529  f  Dduw  ar  Bijd :  Beth  a  dal  heb  obaitli  tla     .     ,     .     .  b 

ai  goron  bo  drigaroc  .  /  IVni:  Kijnwal 

532  //•  Grog :  Awn  draw  ir  llaiin  yn  dri  llv     .     .     .     .  c 

wrth  raid  im  enald  amen  .  /  Morys  ap  Ilowel 

536  JrByd:  Meddyliwn  am  a  ddelo     ....  d 

0  rewn  dydd  i  vynd  iddi  .  /  Wm:  Kynwal 

539  J  Ddvxo  :  Moliant  vchaf  iechyd     ....  e 

yno  i  nef  awn  yn  i  ol  .  /       Edw:  Wynn  ap  Roh:  ap  Gr: 

543  f  Grist :  Pwy  sy  arglwydd  pais  evrglod     ....  / 

Kroes  Dvw  a  Mair  Krist  amen ,  /  2?''  S.  Kent 

647  Mar  :  S.  fVynn  .  Bid  kwerylys  byd  krevlon     ....  g 

0  Dvw  Sion  wyn  dos  yn  iach  .  /  Sion  Tvdvr 

551  ^  Dd:  ahad:  Y  penn  y  rhoed  pan  ar  hwnn     ....  h 

gofyn  dwr  ar  gefn  dorwydd  .  /  Tvdvr  Aled 

565  f  R'^S:   op  Jefan  i  ercJii  march  i  Sr  Roessier  Gr; 

Y  Hew  anwyl  Uawenwych     ....  i 
deiroes  a  mwy  dros  y  march  .  /                   RJwberl  Miltwn 

558  f  yrrxCr  fronfraith  yn  llattai 

Y  ky\T  evrddadl  kowirddoeth     ....  h 
drwy  dal  a  dyred  eilwaith  .  /                             »             » 

561  Atteb  :  Y  kelioc  odidoc  don    ....  / 

garw  gwinwaeth  garv  gwenferch .  /  „  ,, 

664  f  syr  Rys  mynn  person  ILangadfan  i  erchi  march  i  syr 
Rys  Wynn  ap  Sion  bikar  Nannerch  .  / 
Mae  gwraidd  a  dysc  mewn  gradd  dec     ....  m 

ir  prelad  rhoddiad  ai  rhydd .  /  Lewis  ap  Edwart 

568  J  S.  Gr:  ap  JPirs  ap  Gr:  o  Goed  y  mynydd  ynhegeingl 

Y  dewr  ai  wlad  ar  i  law     ....  n 
y  bo  does  dra  vo  byw  dyri  .  /                               TFm:  llyn 

572  Mar:  S.  Salhri  o  Leweni  ap  Sr  Ro''  ap  S''  To:  ap 

To:  hen  .  iSlS .  Beth  a  dal  byth  adeilad     ....  o 

Yngolwc  Dvw  ai  ecgylion./  Wm:  Kynical 

570  Etto  :  Troes  dvnvstr  tros  y  dynion     ....  p 

Jessv  ar  saint  i  Syr  Sion  .  /  Rhys  Kain 

680  J  Sr  Jef:  llwyd  0  Jal :  Pa  wr  di  Iwrf  parodd  wledd  ...       q 
knrw  knot  gwyr  kair  kiint  oi  gwerth  .  /     Wm:  Kynnwal 

583  Mol:  D^'  Elis  Prys  o  Blasiolyn  ,  .  sierif  sir  Ddinbe'i 

y  l^edd  wailh  :  Urddas  mawr,  mawr  addas  Lynn   ....       r 
top  ar  bawb  ti  biav  /  r  /  hel  .  /  S.  Tvdvr 

687  )f  Sion  Tomas  ap  Wm:  or  Ddiserth 

Y  gwr  ai  gorff  yn  graic  ia     .     .     .     .  s 
glod  helaeth  glain  nod  haelion  .  /                     Wm:  Kynxcal 

591  31ol:  Edw:  Konivy  o  Sychdyn  ap  Har:  ap  Siamys  ap 
yr  hen  S.  o  Bodryddan 
Mawr  yw  /  r  /  son  am  eryr  sydd     ....  t 

hen  vv  Adda  hyn  vyddych  .  /  Sion  Tvdvr 

y  98480.  13  B 


C82  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  112. 

594  J  Niclas  Pilstwn  o  wrexam  i  erchi  Bwkled 

Y  Hew  drvd  yrahell  hyd  Ron     ....  a 
hwy  deil  d'air  no  hoedyl  dyn  .  /                        Edw:  JLwyd 

697  jf  Gadwaladr  ap  Rob*  i  erchi  Maharcn 

Yr  vstvs  oil  ras  Dvw  y  sydd     ....  h 

i  Iwdvvn  val  y  dyn  a  vydd  .  /  Gr:  Hiraetliog 

601  3Iar:  Winffre  llwyd  o  Ddinhech 

Y  mae  oer  nad  mawr  a  nyoh     ....  c 
dwy  oes  yw  mam  dewis  modd .  /              Leivit  ap  Edwart 

605  Ag  fat  hynn  y  terfyna  y  kowyddav  ^Nos.  191-217]  a  ysgrifennais  i allan  o 
law  Wtn;  Toincis  ap  Edwart  o  Botfarri  ap l22l'jonorH6iOl 

606  y  Ow:  ap  Gr:  ap  0.  Gethin  :  Arwydd  pellenigrwydd  parcli  .  .  .   d 

rhoed  ynte  i  minne  /r/  march  ,  /  ^olo  Go} 

608  31ar:  Hersdiii  Jiogl:  Jthael  ddv  ith  ol  idd  wyf  ....  e 

i  houno  ■wdvr  i  hwyneb .  /  »       » 

612  Mol:  Jago  i  a  thraethiad  hrad  y  gvmpowdwr 

1'i\w  I V  I  amerawdr  kreawdr  kred     ....  / 

ar  mawl  ar  power  ameu  .  ^4  Rkag.  f60S.  syr  Hvw  Roberts  lien 

617       Ehyfedil  iawn  rhyw  vodd  ennyd  g 

dall  o  beth  yw  dvll  y  byd     .... 
ell  i  wyneb  llywenydd  .  /  Anon 

620       Y  gwr  in  rhaid  a  garwn     ....  h 

dy  nerth  an  diwartho  ni  Dd:  ap  Ilowel 

623  Mar:  Alts  Thelwal:  verch  Rissiart  ap  Edwart  2'helwal 

Dvw  ]fessv  gwyn  dewis  gwr     ....  t 

i  enaid  Als  wenn  i  del .  /  Simwnt  Vychan 

626  Mar:  Simiont  Thehoal  o  Bias  y  ward  ap  Rissiart 
ap  Ediv:  ap  Eibl  Thehoal  iB.Ebrill  1386. 
Ar  ddvw  i  mawr  weddiwn     ....  k 

yn  hap  ir  neb  sy  /  n  /  i  hoi .  /       Edto:  ap  Raff  ap  RhoU 

632  Mar:  S'^  Jefan  llioyd  a  Vodidrist  yn  Jal  .  15§6, 

Krist  ior  kroessa  dy  werin     ....  / 

i  Sion  i  aer  sy  /  n  /  i  ol  Edw:  ap  Raff  ap  Rhob* 

637  jfEiddig:  Pa  ddyn  heb  gwyn  sy  /  n  /  dwyn  die   .     .     .     .m 
iw  dyddyn  varwnad  Eiddic  TFtn:  kynwal 

640  f  verch  anioadal :  Gwao/r/vn  a  gvriav  i  wyneb    ...       n 
glyfaredd  a  gloiw  vorwyn  .  Sion  Tvdvr 

642  3fol:  Emli  :  Blyssiais  vn  blassvs  annerch     ....  o 

ar  enaid  honn  jr  vntal  „         „ 

644  Mar:  Sion  Pilstwn  o  Vers  y  maelor 

Mae/r/  ias  oer  y  Mers  hwnt     ....  p 

heb  na  phoen  byw  na  phenyd .  /  Lewis  Mon 

646  /  gymodi  S^  Roes:  Salbri  o  Leweni  ap  S ''  T.  ap  T.  hen 

0  Salbri  at  geraint :  Aer  ILeweni  iarll  wyneb     .         .    q 
ir  byd  par  wybod  pwy  wyd  .  /  Tvdvr  Aled 

64y  Mar:  Rhys  o'  Vodychen  penn  sierif  Mon 

Dychrynais  dechre  Jonawr     ....  r 

a.  doddo  i  vaich  dydd  y  varn  .  / 

Tcrfyn  y  j  13  j  o  Vowrth  /  16-10  / 


JOHN   JONKS   OF   GELLI   LYVDY.  G83 

654  Kyngor  i  Rys  ap  Morys  ap  Ow:  ap  Jejan 

Blaeniav  .  .  .  ysgwier  i  Harri  viii 
Dvw  a  wuai  gynt  euwoc  ion     ....  « 

nid  hwyracli  yt  ddwyai  torch  avr  .  / 

655  *J'r  Drhidod :  Y  tad  or  decreuad  cuyrn     ....  l> 

yn  vyd  a  cubul  ou  raid .  /  1>''  Sion  Kent 

661  Hod  y  kreaud  dun  yr  byd 

Digam  yu-  duu  ai  gymwyl     ....  C 

mal)  brenin  muy  an  prynno .  /  »         ;> 

665       Y  grog  avr  droedioc  drydol     ....  d 

ar  knaud  ir  fedraud  i  fam  .         Jew:  ap  liyderc  ap  J.  hiyd 

668  f  Dydeco  :  Mae  guv  luyd  yma  gar  lau     ....  e 

i  ducan  at  Tydeco  I>d:  luyd  ap  I'n  ap  Gr: 

673  Mol:  Hair  Vadlen:  Pecod  pa  nas  giirtodir     ....  / 

oi  gwedi  yn  draguydol  Guttun  Keirioc 

676  Mol:  Mair  forwyn  .  Kylennic  yu  kael  einioes     ....  g 

Dun  syberu  i  fynwes  Abram  .  /  Louden 

679  ^  D.  ap  J.  ap  Ein»'  yn  kadu  kastel  Hardlec  gida  Harri  6 . 

Y  Guiliaid  a  gaid  fal  gwynt     ....  h 
Gundy d  biau  /  r/  byd  ar  bel .  /       Dd:  luyd  ap  I'n  ap  Gr: 

682  Mol:  Gr:  Vycan  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  o  Gorsygedol 

Y  karu  icfanc  a  eurir     ....  t 
oni  del  ywein  duluyd                                      Ttidur  Penhjnn 

685  Mol:  Syr  Gr:  fycan  o  JBowys 

Y  marcoc  blodeuoc  blaid     .     ,     ,     ,  /« 
trossod  ur  trussiad  euraid .  /                       liys  Goc  or  Ryri 

688  Mol:  Wm:  ap  Gwilim  ap  Gr:  or  Penryn 

Guyc  Wiliam  ac  iioelwaed     ....  I 

eryr  euraid  yryri .  /  Kynfric  ap  Dd:  Goc 

691  Mol:  Ho:  ap  Sienkin  ap  Jer:  o  ynys  y  Maenguyn 

Houel  enaid  hil  Einion     ....  vi 

pettai  /  r  /  byd  poed  liiv  i  bo.  /         Jeu:  ap  Tudtir  Penlyii 

694  Mol:  Dd:  luyd  ap  Tudur  :  Y  mae  eryr  fal  Morud     ...        n 
dros  haul  Vodidris  a  hunn  .  /  GuUyn  Yioaiii 

697  Mol:  S.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  luyd :  Eyfecl  oni  dau  ryfel     .     .     .      o 
aed  ir  un  dyn  deura  yn  d'oes  Tndur  A  led 

700  Mol:  Eo¥  ap  Rys  o  Bias  Jolyn 

Y  len  bo  /  r  /  aur  liu  /  n  /  y  brie     ....  p 
deudengoes  kyn  dyd  s.ngau  .  /                         Rys  ap  Einion 

703  K.  dycan  i  deon  Bangor  yr  him  pan  doet  y  hard,  atto  i  ofyn  ei 

lytyr  at  Him  Lewis  or  Ciiaen  i  geissio  ei  nert  ef  i  uyna 

a  esgrifenis  attaii  i  beri  idaii  gar  cam  /  r  /  bard  am  ladratta. 

yyn  SfC.    (See  p.  874) 

Mae  doctor  i  Vangor  fain     ....  q 

h'  kud  moel  lytyr  kaead  muy     L'n  ap  guttun  ap  J.  lydan 

706  Mol:  Sion  Pilstun  Tirmon  pan  oed  Siambrlen  Gwyned 

Y  leu  druydau  wait  rudaur     ....  )" 
a  teir  oes.  ytt  at  wyr  Sion                                   Ho:  Reinalt 


*  From  here  onwards  the  writiDg  is  both  hesn'ier  and  later,  and  tlio  ink  has 
destroyed  the  paper  in  many  places  where  large  initials  occur. 

E  B   2 


684  PENIAR'rn  MANUSCRIPT   ll2. 

709  Mol:  Wm:  Gr:  07-  Penryn — atteh  ir  h.  ucod 

Y  pen  meistr  pie  /  n  /  mustriau     ....  a 

natto  Duu  nad  tydi  el  Lewis  Mon 

713  Eito  pan  aeth  efyn  siambrlcn  Giiyned  a  pan  oed  yr  an- 
tindeb  rynto  ef  a  S.  Pilstun  Tirmon  am  y  siiyd 
Pa  uyr  a  gais!  hupio  yr  gwynt     ....  h 

nieirc  gan  ben  marcogion  byd .  /  Lewis  Mon 

716       A  uydant  liuy  puy  oni  puynt     ....  c 

fy  riain  wenn  vyrhau  /  n  /  nyd  .  /  Bedo  Briiynlys 

718  Mol:  mere :  Buriais  fry  briwais  y  vrou     ....  d 

bid  i  fun  y  byd  a  vynno .  /         S.  ap  Ho:  ne  Z).  ap  Edm: 

721       Kur  y  sy  faur  //  kerais  fere     ....  e 

kur  yu  y  myd  //  kau  ar  y  med  .  /  Wm:  hynioal 

723  Y  vun  adwyn  fuyned  faur     ....  f 
ai  fanned  el  ir  fynwen                                              Robin  da 

724  J  ael  mere  :  Guelais  meun  ffair  disglair  dyu     ....  g 

nid  a  ni  dowaid  i  dau .  /  Bedo  Brnynlys 

727       Mae  ynghuyn  am  forwyti/n/  fuy     ....  h 

y  rau  bal  a  wna  vyu  benn .  /  Lewis  Mon 

730  Caru  dyn  ifank  arab  .'  .  .  Tudur  Aled  ne  Bedo  Aerdretn  i 
bagl  gol  a  gaiff  bngail  gwen  .  /     ne  B.  Bruynhjs  ue  ?.  Deuluyn 

732       Mae  krygiai^  dan  fiiriau  f'ais     ....  h 

oui  can  yn  iac  unwait  Ho:  Dd:  luyd 

735       Y  vun  ar  sidan  fanec     ....  I 

onim  gwnai  /  n  /  iac  nim  gwna  neb  .  /  Edic:  ap  Jiys 

737  f  Anni  Qoc:  Cerais  dyn  ifank  araf    ....  m 

o  gyd  gof  gadu  a  gafas  Jeuan  Dyfi 

740  fverc:  Guae  na  clyi^  hedyu  idi     .     .     .     .  » 

hai,  liai,  hai,  ai  hi  yu  honn  .  /  Dd:  ap  Edmmit 

743  y  Eidic  am  dorri  pob  luyn  S^c.  o  amgylc  i  dy 

Y  vun  bac  a  fynn  i  bod     ....  o 

gwaur  deguc  guru  digon  Anon 

746  Jr  ty  bcdn :  Adoilais  dy  fry  ar  vrynn     ....  p 

na  cymun  am  i  fun  fyt  Gronu  dn 

749       Breudwydio  obry  yd  ydwyf     ....  q 

be  ron  ol  a  byrbau  /  u  /  ny4  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  ll'n  Vycan 

752       Guaedfaur  vvyf  er  muyu  gweduferc     ....  r 

o  bruyn  ira  duyn  am  dani  Jeuan  Deuluyn 

754       A  gae  /  r  /  fere  a  garaf  i     .     .     .     .  s 

Xjn  luyn  dan  yr  haul  nid  oes  .  /  Dd:  ap  Edmunt 

757       Hau(Jfyd  ir  dihudai  fau     ....  t 

hi  ni  fynn  hynn  a  fynnun  „  „ 

760      Riain  gur  hen  a  garaf    ....  « 

ymwrando  am  yr  un  dyn  .  /  »>  u 

762  f  JVeirful  Mecain  :  Gunaet  ym  vun  fait  auhiuied  ....  v 
bedeir  oes  meun  bedu  iriaun  .  /  D.  hpjd  ap  I'n  ap  Gr: 

764  jf  henferc :  Heuluen  fun  hylnuu  foned     ....  lo 

OS  gur  fo  gais  y  gorau  .  /  "  ffenur  " 

768  Mar:  mere:  Y  vnti  aet  o  feiin  nociti     ....  x 

ni  maru  /  n  /  fud  morwyu  i  Vair  Bysfyngluyd 


JOHN  JONES  OP  GELLI  LYVDY.  685 

771  Etto :  Blin  yu  hyder  o  weryd     ....  a 

bun  fain  a  wnel  Beimo  /  n  /  fyu  Dd:  Nannior 

77--i:  Etto  :  Guae  fi  kedwais  gof  kadarn     ....  b 

ai  /n/  fyu  /r  /  fun  &\  j  n  j  faru  fiunau  .  /        Tudur  Aled 

776  7  erckhi  3  filgi  :  Puy  o  digrifuc  Powys     ....  c 

o  dau  /  r  /  iarj.  du  o  Ron  .  /       Ow;  ap  JJn  moel  or  paniri 

780  Jr  kelioc:  Y  krair  uuclau  /r/  gluydiair  gled     ....  d 

desgant  hoi  baraduysgerd  .  /  Htiu  Anoysll 

783  Diolc  am  fodi  lower  or  In  Seisnio 

Dyfi'duy  faur  gannaur  gynnyrc     ....  e 

byd  bob  pyrnhaun  yn  Jaiin  Ji         Madoc  ap  Gronu  Ge{in 

787  jf  erci  gualc  i  William  Hanmer 

Puy  o  ran  gwaed  y  prenn  gwin     ....  / 

anigylc  haul  am  y  gwalc  hunn  Tudur  Aled 

790  J  Rohin  ap  Gr:  Goc  i  erci  Paun  a  petmes 

Royd  y  gwin  rydec  ener     ....  g 

ei  puyt  waud  hoyu  petau  tec  Kynric  ap  Dd:  Goc 

793  y  Dd:  ap  Jer: — Yr  eryr  luyd  ar  wyr  leu     ....  h 

am  arf'au  mau  ar  fy  nied  Gutto  or  Glyn 

706  K.  dychan  ir  IFlint :  Dontym  duusul  diwaetaf     ....        i 
a  pobl  seisuic  ai  iiibyd  .  /  Tudur  Penlyn 

799  K.  dychan  i  Harri  IV:  Oc  Gymbru  fynye  gambraint  ....     k 
gobeitiau  a  dau  yd  wyf  Dr:  Sion  Kent 

804  ^r  Byd :  Dis  yu  /  r  /  byd,  os  arbedun     ....  I 

ar  da  muy  ond  ar  d.uu  maur  .  /  Sioii  Tudur 

807  S>'  Gr:  Vycan  oed  aluochac  y  vgowys  na  Harri  Gray  iarl 
Tankerjffild  or  acos  y  ienfigennod  Grae  urtaii,  ac  a  aros  bod  yn  hoff 
gan  yr  iarles  /S''  Gr:  y  gyrrod  yr  iarl  am  S''  Gr:  i  deisyf  arno  dy- 
jod  atto  ef  ac  a  hebryngod  ei  fodruy  yn  arivyd  o  noded  a  dicgslruyd 
ido  i  dyfod  ac  i  fyned  yn  ei  urtgefn  :  eitr  y  r^iir^wyneh  hynn  pann 
doet  yr  kastel  ef  a  dorrod  yr  urg:  ei  ben  ef 

Am  y  gur  muya  gerais     ....  m 

dial  am  duyl  dalm  a  dur  Dd:  Luyd  ap  L'n  ap  Gr: 

812  Mar:  L'n  moel  or  pantri 

A  wyr  dyn  dan  awyr  do     ...     .  n 

draic  Wyued  a  dric  ynof  liys  Goch  or  liyri 

815  3Iar  Gtm.  ap  Gr: — Rad  elvyd  ro  duu  dalfainc     ....        o 
onis  gwna  duu  nis  gwna  dyn./  „  „ 

819  Blar:  S.  ap  Roesser :  Blin  ydiu  gan  blanedau     ....         p 
a  roi  nef  ir  hunn  a  aet  Bys  Goc  o  Lynn  Dyfduy 

823  Mar:  plant  J.  Getin  ap  f.  leisson  a  vuant  feiru  or  Itormoyd 

Duu  erglyu  a  da  argluyd     ....  q 

ym  yn  hal  am  yn  hylwyt  _f.  Gefin  no  Le'n  Vycan 

827  Mar:  Wm:  liarhart  iarl  Fenvro  .  1370  . 

Poen  yu  advyd  penydfaur     ....  r 

ai  fab  yn  iarl  fo  byu  /  n  /  ur  .  /  PFm:  lyn 

SSI   Terfyn  / 16  j  GorfferMaf  :  1619  : 

831  J  S''    Win:  Hanmer  orffens  i  erci  Taru  bryc  i  J.  mred: 

Puy  yu  /  r  /  leu  top  iarl  waed  hen     ....  $ 

vo  dal  bris  dy  vuduil  bryc .  /  Rys  hain 


686  PENIA.RTH  MANUSCRIPTS   112-113. 

836       Y  leu  diluvf  liu  duluyd     .... 

ar  d'oes  a  ro  duij  ^essu  .  /  Anon 

810       Y  verc  wedu  divryceudeiJE     .... 

dioscoed  wel  dy  wise  4i  •  /  -^f^-'  "P  Ji^dnunt 

812       Yr  hobi  a  dibarebwyd     .... 

garu  drust  er  a  geir  drosto  .  /  Aiion 

845  Atteb  ir  kowydeu  a  lonaed  yn  erhyn  k.  Jolo  Goc  ir  Offereu 
Bet  yu  hyun  syd  ar  iFyd  ffo     .     .     .    . 
henur  yu  hynn  o  eirie  ■  /  no  sii/naluve 

S49  Some  i2  lines  are  left  blank— the  fragment  begins  ; 

•  bael  am  da  y  kaf     .... 

ni  bu  ei  wel  yn  y  byd .  /  Anon 

851       Y  leu  ar  vraint  Lyr  ai  vrlo     .... 
yu  wynnluyd  vry  /n/  le  dy  vraud 

854       Y  gossauc  fiyrf  gwasc  ei  ffonu     .     . 

nid  cl  dyd  yn  dlaud  idau 
857       Dun  roes  deyrn  dros  deau     .... 

uyt  einioes  vo  it  wyueb  ,  /  Anon 

859       Y  ki'oesdy  gwynn  Krist  ai  gad     ....  i 

yn  uiioed  a  Noe  yno  .  /  „ 

802       Y  dyn  glan  ac  adynn  gled     ....  k 

o  i}u  y  rain  roi  aur  ryd  ,, 

864       Y  fere  adwyn  ei  liuyneb     ....  I 

a  bod  Duu  ni  byd  diwed  „ 

Tetfi/n  :  y  dyd  hyntaf  0  Aust :  u.  k.  :  1621 : 

Then  follow  various  passages  omitted  apparetitly  in  ike  text  of 
the  respective  poems  to  which  references  are  given  below. 

870       Bet  yu  hynn  syd  ar  ffyd  ffo  . 

Pymteckant  rifant  y  rain  .  .  sait  a  trugain     ....        m 
eilivi  gvvir  yn  ole  yu  /  r  /  gwait  Wm:  ap  Huii.  Lewis 

o  Uydycen  yniferyl  guyr  a  vuont  feiru  yn  erbyn  S.  ap  Mob:  ap  liys  ap  Ho.  Sfc. 

871-81  These  pages  contain  passages  belonging  to  poems  on 
pp.  78,  81,  261,  300,  325,  357,  359,  366,  393,  425,  481,  510,  665, 
703,  724. 


liys 

Nan\ 

j?ior'} 

ff 

?J 

jj 

h 

MS.  113  =  Hen.  514.  Poetry  in  three  parts.  Paper;  11 J  x  8| 
inches;  pages  1-39,  1-4,  and  1-68  respectively;  loose  in  paper  covers. 

These  parts  -were  transcribed  in  1640  from  vai-ious  fragments  on  Vellum  by 
John  Jones  of  ;GelU  Lyvfly  wliile  detained  in  the  -Fleet  Street  prison  (p.  03). 
I'arts  of  the  text  are  imperfect  on  pp.  27-38. 

Pakt  I. — Pages  1-39  plus  9  blank  pages. 

1  3Iar:  tuyssog  Arthur  mab  Harri  vii 

Lewod  heb  orvod  dan  yn  baye  oed  doe  //     .     v     .     .        n 
briu  deg  lea      wadyr  bruydyr  luyadyr  .         Bys  Nanmor 

8  J  Ilurri :  ^arl  Gwent  0  barlnient  yn  benn  //  y  teirgwlad  .  .    0 
pob  iajt  yt  eurliu  paub  yt  iarlaet  Un  ap  Rissiart 

13       Mair  faur  nef  a  laur  yii  /r/  lys // ar  ffynon     .... 
fy  hyiit  fo  /n/  vuan  at  fair  Jen:  ap  Ho;  Cae  hiyd 


JOHN  JONES   OF   GBLLI  LYVDY,  687 

16   Oiidyl  unnos  ofol:  i  Dd:  ap  Cadwaladyr  o  Vaceldre 

Mab  cadr  Cydwaladyr  mab  cydwelyd  //  hael     ....     a 
dy  glod  aet  dros  y  gwledyd      D:  Bnc  ap  Madog  wladaid 

23       Duu  maur  clyu  /  n  /  dirfaur  dy  erfyu  //  dniy  oergluyf        b 
am  argliiyd  Tal  y  lynn  ....  Sion     .     .     .     . 
A  cuyr  yn  olau  /n/  dycryn  alaet     .... 
a  Cruya  i  (l.  gg)  rest  wanting 

27       Y  drindod  aur  glod  argluyd  //  duu  Jessu     ....  c 

doun  i  wir  bennuct  dyii.  anercyno      Jeu:  ap  ho:  Cue  Luyd 

31       Lywelyn  a  fynn  a  fynno  //  beunyd  .  .  .  }eu  Morgan  .  .  .  d 
ar  waneg  aur  ar  win  gwynn  "      Jeuan  htyd 

34  Moh  J.  apff.  ap  ffor  {Cunstab  Cefnlys  yn  sir  faesyfeid) 

■feuan  ap  ffylib  a  ir  uyt     ....  '■  e 

du  a  da  ydvvyd  jfeuan  '  Lewis  Glynn  Coti 

38   Mol:  Uiliam  ap  Morgan  ap  Dd:   Gam 

MoJiaut  mab  forgant  a  vyd  //  yn  eilwait     ...  / 

ryu  g«du  /  r  /  genedl  rag  y  drygyo    (1.  28)-left  uufiuished. 


Part  II.— Pages  1-4  plus  20  blank  pages. 

1       Ocaf  y  duu  o  dyfod  y  leit  lyu  Gwyned     ....  g 

I'al  ydlysg  gwynnon  gan  odait  . 

ii.  Ni  taun  pe  by  dun  celfyd     ....  /, 

di  funer  ucer  ag  ecwyd  Danyel  ap  losgimi  me\f. 

4  y  duy  Odyl  var:  ucod  a  gefais  i  yn  ysgrifenedic  meun  lyfyr  or  eido  y  i).aid 
Sion  ap  Wiliam  :  a  ventyeiassei  ef  i  wydyr,  ac  a  gefais  inneu  y  gan  Mr.  Owen 
"VVynn  o  wydyr. 


Part  III.— Pages  1-68  plus  4  blank  pages. 

1       Krist  ^essu  luyr  fedu  leufer     ....  i 

Am  Vuelt  terfyn  turuf  ucer 
taryf  ar  varyf  o  farwaul  lyfyrder 
am  Abercammarc  y  cyfarcer 
lyu  lywenyd  y  nifer     .... 
diued  trugared  truy  gyfreit .  /  Amen  .  / 

7       Mor  yu  gwael  gweled  cynnuruf  cynnired     ....  k 

an  roder  ran  diuieu  gwenwled  gwal  oleu  . 

[  Y  dau  ucod  |  a  gefais  if  yn  ysgrifenedic  ar  duy  dolen  o  lyfr 
Brud  y  brenhinoed  (a  gefais  gan  Mr.  Prys  o  Aberhondu)  mewn  ' 
law  ewingrun  deg  iaun 

10       Panit  gwan  truan  trymned  pecode  anifer     ....  / 

an  prynnaud  ni  ar  duu  gwener  .  Gr:  ap  yr  ynad 

12       Oe  hyd  at  vrenin  vraint  ucerdati     ....  m 

a  Crist  or  diwed  in  duyn  attau  „  ,, 

Y  duy  odi  ucod  a  gefais  yn  ysgriuenedio  o  lau  anghyfieit  (ar  duy  dolen  meun 
lyfyr  memrun  hen  o  hanes  Siarlys  or  eido  carcaror  a  fainc  y  brenin}  j  rai  a 
ysgrifennais  cynn  gowired  ag  y  medrais  ar  hynu  nis  medrais  ei  ysgrifennu  yn 
gywir  mi  ai  yegrifennais  yn  y  lytyr  y  cefais  herwyd  ni  fedre  y  neb  ai  hys- 
grifennasscu  hiiynt  ysgrifennu  Cymraeg  yu  gowir 

16  f  Esgob  Bangor  a  oed  yn  caru  cerd  danneu  ynfiiy 
no  cerd  dafod :  Argluyd  Grist  culuyd 
calon  //  gyflaimrad  ar  gleidrad     ....  n 

gur  pruol  0  for  Rud  //  hyd  for  ywerdon        Jorwert  Bely 


688  VENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT  113, 

21       Lys  Dafyd  le  ruydaf  //  y  ael  mordu  //  a 

ail  mordaf  dy  &c.  imperfect  and  wanting  end 

24       Cyffessaf  ym  niif  nefaul  diindaut     ....  b 

erbyn  fym  peryf  //  yn  anparaut*  Anon 

26       Mail-  maur  diistyd  byd  bryd  a  bryderaf     ....  c 

Manon  duf  y  gwirion  gweryd  araf*    (i.  i?) 

28  Rin  rin  rywerin  dyro  diot  y  Gudyn     ....  d 
ny  bo  ar  neitaur  honn  gwedy  ni    . 

29  A  di'uan  dyn  deuryu.  annyan     ....  e 
y  byd  gwin  a  med  a  bed  inuynyan                      y  Bergam 

31       Decymig  puy  yu  ki-eat  kyno  diliu     ....  / 

yn  ren  cym  ranner  gan  lu  Lussufer  Taliessin 

Y  tri  caniad.ucod  a  ysgrifennais  if  a]an  or  hutta  hyfarwyd  o 
forganniig  (p.  45).     See  Pen:  MS.  50,  pp.  20,  60-1. 

Kanv  r  SuYDOGTON  Li'S  r  Brenhin.^ 

35       Dyd  da  yt  riain  at  aur  wylain     ....  g 

a  poyd  i  gorffowys  yngwlat  Biiradwys  Taliessin 

37  Yr  Ynat  lys :  Golycaf  yr  ynad  kyfarcaf  ir  tad     ....      h 

ys  uji  a  didan  Meugan  ag  Artaii  . 

38  Golycaf  yr  yffeiriad  ys  urdol  ynad     ....  i 
ya  kain  ymtob  tu  yr  eflFeiriad  teulu  . 

b.      O  air  duu  nim  daur  moli  /  r  /  Kynghajauv     ....         A 
ys  kynhuyso  dofyd  yn  i  drain  . 

39 y  mayr  a  ancd  ynghayr  &c.       very  imperfect  I 

40      y  Trujiad  may  gun  gynheiliad     ....  m 

nit  didolo  duu  wirdeau 

b. y  Ringyl  trafuy  yn  fy  sefyl     ....  n 

drycan  kalan  Mai  kan  myrd  yu  geldai 

42  Vr  Hebogyd  ;  Golycaf  duu  dofyd  a  bail-  nos  a  dyd     .     ,     .  o 

urt  yr  yny  wlad  dragywyd 

b.   Yfacdait :  faurhydic  i  gwait  &c.  (3  11.  only)  p 

43  Golycaf  y  kynj'd  kanys  gur  dedwyd     ....  q 
rung  klud  a  cruyu  boyd  liir  i  bo  byu  . 

44  O  air  duu  neirtiad  golycaf  y  Meiciad     ....  r 
duu  awnaet  arad  duu  a  wnaet  yr  had                   Taliessin 

45  Gogun  wawd  gyrru  a  gwaud  difyrru     ....  s 
ni  udoe  pa  vyd  a  vo  nag  a  dyf  ■ 

— —  laul  getlau  /  a  wur  Jyfaru  a  vyd  ag  a  vu 

a  ilung  Elftin  or  hual  eurin 

arien  /  ky wylogayt  remainder  wanting  Taliessin 

Y  haniadau  ucod  ipp.  35-48)  a  gefais  if  ar  dny  hen  dolen  dywtjl 
dryliedig  oedynt  meun  Lyfyr  i  Siaspar  Griiffyd  y  rain  a 
ysgrifennais  ifalan  drtfyfaur  boen  acelfydyd^. 

48  Mar:  leidyr  a  elwid  y  ludyn  gurii 

Ludyn  guru,  er  groged  leidyr  a  ydoed  weitred     .     .     .     .   t 
nid  raid  i  minnau  //  dornu  /  ar  /  dai  Eismegel 

*  Left  unfinished  apparently  in  both  cases, 
f  The  texts  of  the  hanuon  is  often  imperfect. 
X  The  text  is  imperfect. 


LEWIS   GWYNN   OF   TREV  ESCOB   ETC.  689 

53  Armcs  dyd  Brand :  Dens  dominus  deiliad     ....  « 

mogeluc  y  bresen  hyd  dien*.  Taliessin 

58       Kyfarcaf  ym  naf  nefaul  oesbrig     ....  b 

kyffi  am  bemi  Adaf  dyn  ryS  ruygcdig  .  /j 

65  Pann  vodes  y  Sai/son  yn  \\eganwy 

Lawer  bram  eisie  ir  bienin  hediii  &c.  Kadiigon  f'ul  <; 

6.  Nyt  hiraet  ergylaet  guyu     ....  d 

gan  diiu  ur  yn  vyij  o  ved  Bys  ap  Dd:  ap  Jer: 

6G       Hir  ynn  dod  didaul  dygned  e 

kbiyf  hirloyu  nuyf  nau  mlyned     .... 
ny  }uyd  y  mortwyr  adier^  Adaf         Text  imperfect 


MS.  114  =  Hen.  232.  Poetry,  mostly  in  praise  of  Leivis 
Gwynn,  Constable  of  Tref  Escob,  who  died  in  1552  (p.  153).  Paper; 
12  X  7 J  inches;  pages  1-192,  plus  193-214  which  consist  of  loose 
sheets  of  various  sizes,  and  earlier  in  date ;  the  writing  of  pp.  1-192 
bears  a  strong  resemblance  to  the  lead-penoillings  by  John  Jones  of 
Gelli  Lyvdy  in  MSS.  bearing  his  name,  but  it  is  unlike  his  formal 
copying  hand  except  in  the  capitals,  written  circa  1620-40 ;  unbound. 

I  II  o  nos  wenu  hyd  nos  ynys     ....  / 
diod  a  bwyd  hyd  y  bedd.     (25  U.)                     Hoioell  Davi 

Kyioyddeu  mol:  Leiois  Gwynn  Kwnstabl  Tref  esgoh 
b.      Yr  eryr  glew  ar  avr  gledd     ...  g 

pennaf  iarll  ar  bob  henw  vych  feu:  ap  Imwhyn  llioyd 

3       Y  mae  gwyl  ym  a  golyd     ....  h 

ni  byddwn  awr  hebddo  /  u  /  iach  Hutu  arivystl 

5       Af  yr  ddar  i  vwrdd  eryr     ....  i 

niae  gleindyd  y  byd  lie  bych  .  /  Leu-is  Blorganmcg 

7  Diolch  amffonn  :  fFonn  a  ddanfones  ^essv     ....  h 

ar  ffonn  goU  orSen  y  gan  .  /  Dd:  llwyd 

9       Blio  dvw  vrvd  ynfyd  auoeth     ....  I 

er  hyd  a  gyfyd  o  gydd  Tiobin  ddv 

II  3Iar:  Robt.  o  ddevddwr  kionstabl  tref  esgob 

Mavvr  sorriant  mae  /  r  /  as  harri     ....  m 

mwy  /n/  poen  aeth  marw  /n/  penaethiaid  (1.  3i) 
12       II  ap  oi  devparth  yngwartheg     ....  n 

OS  kcissiaw  fSniaw  nis  goriFennych  || 

14  II  dyro  gwestviliodd  dewrionn     ....  o 
tragowydd  y  tri  gayaf                     fvan  ap  dd:  ap  Jeu:  hen 

15  Mol:  siankyn  ap  gl'm :  Mawr  o  son  am  wr  y  sydd  ....      p 

bid  wir  y  gair  mair  amen  Mred:  up  Rosser 

16  /  dd:  ap  Rys  :  Tyfodd  yn  rhyd  dav  ofwy     ....  q 

diank  o  cherdda  /r/  ddaiar  .  /  Huw  Pe^inall 

18  /  Lewys  gwyn  :  S''  Brydyr  ail  llyr  a  Haw  //  a  dyrnod  ....      r 
yn  ser  ywch  gwiliey  //  yn  S"-'  ych  gwelcd  .  /     Leicis  Powys 

*  The   middle  of  the  poem  is  wanting.     Tho  text  is  very  ditfereut  from  that  in 
Pen.  MS.  2,  p.  10. 
t  Written  at  the  "  fflut  / 1  /  fedi  / 1640  /." 


690  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPT   114. 

21       A  wen  a  wnaeth  mab  maeth  meJd     ....  a 

ar  naid  im  enaid  amen  .  /  Jeu:  ap  Rhydd:  up  J.  ilvoijd 

24       Rhoed  y  llewpart  ddwy  spardyn     ....  h 

yn  ystlys  mam  ynys  mon  .  /  L.  glynn  hothi 

27  ^  Lewis  gtvynn  :  Pwy  a  y  prins  ym  hob  rlian     ...  c 

y  mraich  og  fawr  marchog  vycli  Leioys  Pqwijs 

29  Etto :  Pwy  /  r  /  gwr  dooth  piav  /  r  /  gair  da     ...     .  d 

dan  esgob  mae  /  n  /  farchog  vych .'/  Rissiard  Aled 

30  Etto  :  Mae  gwr  ym  o  gy w  eryr     ....  e 

y  gwna  dvw  /  r  /  dyn  gwyn  dewr  doeth  .  /    Uuw  Arwystl 

32       Rhoes  y  dad  bedydd  medd  rbai     ....  / 

yr  nef  yr  aetli  yn  vfydd  Jeu:  ap  Rhydd:  ap  f.  II. 

35  J  L.  gioynn :  Tir  kymry  sy  /  n  /  tynnv  tid     .     .     .     .  g 

tydi  y  w  /  r  /  hydd  tad  yr  heddwch  .  /    Gr;  ap  ll'n  ap  Madog 

37  f  Ow:  ap  Mred:  ap  Tudvr  ap  gronie 

Gvvyddom  dewi  a  goddef    ....  h 

yn  ihydd  i  Ben  mynydd  Mon    Jeu:  Gethin  ap  J.  ap  lleison 

39       Ti-ef  dayar  wynedd  ai  drych     ....  i 

amgen  no  cherdd  am  gnyw  chwyrn.  Tvdvr  Aled 

417  laicer  o  wyr  Morgannwg  i  erchi  gwarlheg  i  Lewys  gtvynn 

Mawr  yw  swydd  ar  y  mars  aeth     ....  Ji 

gwerth  y  gerdd  vydd  gwartheg  ym        Lewis  Morgannwg 

44  Y  Hew  draw  ay  llidiaw  yr  wyd  ....  / 
dyweid  a  ddof  doed  a  ddel  (1.  30)  end  wanting 

Kywyddeu  i  Lewys  gwxjnn 

45  Pwy  /r/  dewr  walch  pvr  diaereb  ....  m 
dowch  ag  yn  iarll  dyw  ach  gwnel          Matheic  Bnomffikl 

47  Pwy  /  r  /  pennaeth  ior  ffraetb  avr  fEriw  //  wr  kadarn  .  .  .  .  n 
glain  bonedd  glan  bennaeth  .  /  Morgan  Elfael 

50       Ar  oedi  o  swrn  yr  ydwy     ....  o 

payt  vai  radd  fwy  poed  rliwydd  vo  .  /    Kad^  ap  R.  Trefnant 

62  Uoed  golvd  y  byd  heb  oediaw  //  n  /  Haw  dyn  ...  p 
dan  gadwyn  drom  Godwin  draw  .  /  hvw  arwystl 

55       Siosseb  gloiw  vndeb  glendyd     ....  q 

a  ivua  gi-as  dvw  /  n  /  gorssed  avr  .  /  „  „ 

57  J  erchi  march  :  Meddyliais  am  y  ddwywlad     ....  r 

a  sal  rhwydd  ir  aawl  ai  rhoes .  /  Thomas  ap  howelt 

60       Karai  Abram  kar  ebryw     ....  s 

nodi  /  r  /  chware  /  n  /  dorch  avr  Hvw  Arwystl 

62       Y  gwr  0  grib  y  gaer  gronn     ....  t 

a  rodo  /  r  /  dorch  rvdd  ar  dwn  .  /  >,  » 

64  fFraeth  garw  llys  Bowys  wyd  vn  bon  //  dadl  .  .  .  .  u 
vnwaith  ymhowys  //  iiilh  amhevant  „  „ 

07   ?  Sf.  TVm:  gr:  Penrhyn  i  erchi  vn  oi  ordderchadon 

Kariad  marched  am  kiriai     ....  v 

niwr  ddvw  oedd  waeth  na  ddoe/r/ddyn      S'' Dd:  Trefor 

C9  J  Rithrwm  ne  ifab  mewn  dillad  7nerch 

Y  ferch  fwyn  ddadl  lygadlws w 

yn  efa  ith  wraig  noswuith  yr  ol .  /  Jhiw  arwystl 


LEWIS  GWYNN   OF  TREV  ESCOB  ETC,  691 

VO  J  Lewis  gwynn:  Bardd  a  gyrch  bryddawg  orchwyl a 

ni  lyno  vyth  law  /  n  /  ei  fwng .  /  Huw  arwijstl 

72  JE'<<o  ;  Pvm  llwytli  twyssawg  Iwy  that  Sedd // Bry  tan  waed  .  ,  ,b 
ni  bv  y  tvvysog  d'wybodyssach*  Lewis  Blorgannwg 

75  Biol:  Jasper  iarll  penvro  :  Y  ddeuwr  arglwyddiaidd  .     .     .     ,  c 
'  i  gadw  aelwyd  kydwaladyr .  /  Vd:  Nanmor 

TJ  J  Dd:  llwyd :  Hawddamawr  blaynawr  y  blaid     ....       d 
a  Haw  ddvw  rhag  Uadd  ei  wyr./  „         ,. 

79  jf  I^ewi/s  gwyn  :  y  gwr  ir  teg  ir  avr  tawdd     ....  e 

vn  oi  ry w  /  n  /  benn  ar  honn  byth  Ow:  Givi/nedd 

81  Utlo:  y  Hew  dewr  chwyrn  lie  daw  / v /  chwant     .     .     .     .    / 
kay  deiraa  ben  kedyrn  byd  .  /     TAo;  ap  Eymjon  al's  Teijfy 

83  f  S>'  Siors  Mathay  o  Radyr  i  erchi  menu  i  X.  gicynii .  / 

Marchog  avr  mavvrwych  ag  onn     ....  g 

mercli  wycb  wycb  meyrcli  chwech  yehen    Morgan  Elvell 

86  J  Lewys  gwynn  a  Stan  ei  wraig 

yr  ydwyf  yn  garedig     ....  h 

draw  gan  bwyll  i  drigo/n/bent  bedo  hafesb 

87  Mar:  Lvwssi  gwraig  lewys  gwyn 

kwynwn  gwae  ni  or  kanv     ....  i 

yuo  i  trig  y  heneid  rbydd  Thomas  Teifi 

89  f  Rhys  ap  Sion 

Tra  vych  yn  gwledych  gwladoedd  //  hir  einioes     ....    A 
nim  dawr  o  vyw  awr  //  ond  tra  vycb  .  /      Jer:  Vynglwyd 

91  J  Fair  :  Gwr  wyf  nid  rbaid  gorafyn     ...  I 

kyd  oes  a  hi  gida  saintj         Ho:  ap  dd:  ap  Jew:  ap  Rhys 

93  J  yrru  Gleissiad  yn  gennad  ywain  dwn 

y  gleissiad  vwnwgl  assur     ....  m 

gael  dyw  a  gwelad  ywaia .  /  f  „  „  „ 

93       Och  ddvw  nad  attebwch  ddim     ....  n 

dwr  mwy  nag  a  red  ir  mor  .  j  \    (i.  58)  Anon 

96  J  Gr:  Dwn  :  Y  mae  avrwalch  vryen     ....  o 

march  a  chi  a  merch  wycli  iawnf  Morgan  Elvel 

99  Henri  7  :  am  y  lliw  y  mae  llawer     ....  p 

ag  irfawr  chwedl  a  gorfodl  Gr:  llwyd 

101   J  Grist :  WymiL  /  r  /  twrwf  lie  mae  /  r  /  terfyn    ...  q 

nid  oes  iawn  gyfailld  ond  vn  .  / 1  Sio)i  y  hent 

103  y  dyn  ai  gas  dano  i  gyd  &c.t  — a  fragment  r 

104  Kas  waith  kenuyf  iaith  kan  fin  //  kyhoeddog    ...  s 
a  ^pa/A  etto  brymwtter  .  /                                 Gr:  Hiraethog 

b.      Mae  eddigedd  bydredd  yn  bvdro  //  rhai     ...  t 

wedy  nwyf  na  wadai  neb .  /  Tho:  ap  Hoel 

105  J  Z'  gw7jn  :  fy  meistres  avr  bennes  beynydd  //  or  kastell   .    .    .  ti 

i  chwi  oes  hir  chwi  a  sian  Hugh  Arwystl 

b.      Pwy  y w  ynglew  mal  Hew  ail  llyr  //  yw  dyrnas  ....  v 

s"^  Owain  goch  Siarlmaen  gwyr  ./.... 
gan  amled  ei  ferched  fo  „  „ 

*■  The  greater  part  of  thi.s  Awdl  is  missing,  pp.  73-4  having  beea  torn  out. 
■j-  The  text  of  all  the  poems  marked   with   a   dagger  was  more  or  less  imperfect 
iu  the  MS.  from  which  they  were  trauscribed. 


692  PENIAaTH  MANUSCRIPT   114. 

c.  Pe  cae  /  r  /  twm  bwn  o  dda  batli  &c.         Ji/ii/s  benn  pres  a 

d.  Ehys  levog,  Ilhys  Eog,  Ehys  rwygwr  //  Ehys  ....  h 
Ehocs  dawn  glod  Ehys  din  y  gler .  /               Lewis  Dionn 

106  Er  trais  or  djfais  er  diva  fyngolvd     ....  c 
Uibvddiwch  or  lie  y  byddo  .  /                                         Gr:  ap  Dd:  rip  Si: 

b.  kadw  Sion  wr  vnion  rieni  //  a  Hwlyn     ....  d 
0  chedwir  ddav  yn  dav  di                                    sr:  dd:  vicar  llan  sanfr: 

c.  Sr  Sion  wr  tirrion  yn  torri  //  omilem  &e.  Gr:  ap  Dd:  ap  J.  e 

d.  dy  Ictty  di  person  del  iti  //  itb  oes     ....  y 
od  ar  wyr  hael  ydiw  hwn                                                     Jicbert  Jones 

107  ^r  pott  yn  gollwng  diod  :   Goddart  ni  ddlcwn  y  godi // yu  Uawen  ...       g 

nog  ir  min  i  gwrr  mynwes  Htno  Arwystl 

108  fanneroh  trwy  drassereli  at  ryw  dras  //  helaeth     ....  A 
down  vn  dydd  hyd  yno  yn  dav .  /                                           .,        „ 

b,      amiach  yn  Uvndain  gain  gerth  //  gelain     ....  i 

yfed  heb  dygied  i  Dwm .  /  „        „ 

109  Gorav  dewr  yw  gwyrav  drem  .  .  .  ar  y  tant  gorav  .  .Twm./  ,,         „         h 

b.  Marged  dda  i  styrried  wawr  ddistad  //  ddidaer  &c.  „        „         I 

c.  Or  hyd  vv  ymgelv  am  gais  //  ith  weled  &o.  „        „       m 

d.  Bord  Lewjs  ami  gwys  eb  geissiaw // llechv  &c.  Wm:  Penlhjn  n 
c.  Molt  Uevad  godiad  a  gaid  //  yn  vcliell  &c.  „         „           o 

110  Pan  glybv  Sion  keut  vod  y  kythrel  yn  arlwyo  gwely  iddo  ef  yn  vffern  p 
ef  a  barodd  .  .  .  dwymno  pobty  .  .  .  iw  losgi  ei  bvn  &c.  &c. 

b.  dingl  doDgl  gwraig  llewelyn  betb  a  roi  di  er  gweled  Gl'm  &c.  q 

c.  a  knight  of  Cals  &  a  Squire  of  Wales  &  a  gentleman  of  tlie  North  Coiiutrey  r 

•A  )  eoman  of  Kent,  if  he  reckon  his  rent  is  better  then  the  three 

d.  To  S>'  Robert  Cissill  earle  of  Salusbury  :  s 

Heere  lieth  little  llobyn  vndemeath  the  bench  &c. 

111  Three  dangerous  da  yes  to  lett  blood,  or  vomite  &c.  t 

b.  ^  was  a  man  as  now  you  be  &  now  a  scull  as  you  may  see  &c.  « 

c.  Sec.  Cissill  lo:  Tresurer  .  .  being  ashed  howe  hee  lived  soe  loiige  .  /  v 

Late  Suppers  ^f  do  abstayne  womens  Company  'J-  doe  refrayne .  / 
head  &  foote  ^  keep  from  Could  which  is  the  cause  ^  live  so  ould  .  / 

112  He  that  buylds  his  house  in  theholow  .  ytt  is  pittie  but  hee  were  hanged  &c.  w 

b.  Khag  pob  kleij'd  ar  a  vo  mewu  korff  dyn  &c.  .r 

c.  AchavL's  JonesCwnnstahlTref  esgob  :  L'  ap  Siankyn  ap  ILu  &c.  ij 

ILtMA    WEHELYTH  BRTCIIEimOG 

113  Lewis  Gwynn  ap  Siankyn  ap  ll'n  ap  Gtm  ap  Ehys  &c. 

114  Harri  ap  Harri  ap  Edmwnt  ap  Ow;  ap  Mred:  &c. 

b.  Ehobyn  ap  Morgan  ap  Jev:  vychan  &c. 

c.  IL'n  ap  dd:  ap  jer:  ap  Madog  ddv  &c. 

115  Howell  ap  ^euan  ap  Gr:  ap  Madog  ap  'Edn^  Goch  &c. 
b.  Ho:  ap  Gronwy  ap  Jen:  ap  Gronwy  ap  hwfa  &c. 

116  Gr:  ap  Jeuan  chwith  ap  ^fer:  ap  IL'n  &c. 

b.      Edw;  ap  Ho:  ap  Jeu:  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  ffil:  Gocb.  &c. 

118  GWEHELYTH  ABWi'STLI 

Ho:  ap  ^euan  ap  ywain  ap  Trehayarn  ap  karadog  &c. 

b.  Plant  Bleddyn  ap  liynfyn  :  Madog  a  Ehirid  &c. 

119  GwEiiELYTH  Morgannwg  .  Morgant  ap  kriadog  ap  ^estin  &c. 
l)_  „  jiTEG/ziF/J'.-  Gwynn  ap  Gr:  ap  Beii  ap  Selif&c. 

c.  Meibion  livnedda  lokdig :  Teibiawn  ap  kvn:  hynaf  &c. 

120  ILwyth  Gwent :  Morgant  ap  Ho:  ap  ^er:  ap  ywain  &c. 

b.  Owe:  Penllyn :  Meiriawn  ap  ILennodden  ap  Eoet  &o. 

c,  „     Meirionnydd ;  kynan  ap  Brochfaelaa,  ap  Ednyfed  &c. 


PEDIGREES   AND   POETRY.  693 

121  Give:  Rhos :  Ho:  varyf  fynawg  op  karadog  &c. 

b.  „     dogfeilin:  kynvrig  ftp  alaeth  ap  Elvdlas  &c. 

c.  Artlivr  ap  vthir  beiidragoa  ap  kwstenin  vendigaid  &c, 
d.  Mam  Gr:  kadwgan  =  meich   S''   Qr:   Ilwyd  &c. 

e.  S"^  Johu  Gr:  ap  S''  Tlio"  ap  S''  Eys  ]ffank  &c. 

122  Tri  lie  yr  aeth  Gvvynedd  ar  gogail  .  .  .  vu  vv  Saradwcn  vj 

Gynan  ap  Evdaf  ap  kriadog  ap  Rran  &c. 

123  Pwy  byunag  a  fynno  adnabod  kwrs  y  llevad  gwybydded  ya 
gynt  vod  yr  havl  yn  kerdded  bob  blwyddya  &c. 

b.  llyma    rheol    a   elvvir    dosbarth    ymrysson  ....  aclios    bod 
ynddi  a  henyw  o  gwrs  yr  havl,  ag  o  gwrs  y  llevad  &c. 

124  dav  bymp  wyth  nid  llwyth  yn  l!aw  &c. 

b.  O  mynni  wybod  pa  hyd  y  llywycha  y  llyad  vwcb  y  ddaiar 
gwedi  machlvd  bavl  &c. 

125  Pan  oedd  .  o  .  k  .  1513  yr  aeth  Harri  viii  ,  .  i  fEraink  ar 
vlwyddyn  honno  y  doeth  ^ago  br:  ysgotlond  &c. 

126  Tri  dyn  a  gj-f anhedda  llys,  Bardd  kaw :  abardd  Taut  a  bardd  fBthlem.  /  &o. 

b.  Tri  mab  a  vv  i  Noe  hen  .  .  .  Sem  Cham  a  ^affeth  &c. 

c.  Tari  yr  hwu  oedd  dad  ahrani  a  beris  gwnevthvr  :  30  :  o  geinhiogav  &o. 
129  Melchior  brenin  Eubi  ag  arabia  a  offrymodd  vn  nfal  avr  ar  :  30  :  &c. 
129  Y  Lapidari;  Yr  ydis  yn  darllain  mewn  llyfreu  mac  Onax 

brenin  Arabia  a  ddanfones  llyfr  i  Nino  Emerodr  Rhvfain  yr 
Inmin  lyfr  oedd  yn  dangos  kryfdwr  a  rhinioedd  y  :  36  :  main  hynny 
ai  henwav  ai  lliwiev,  ar  lie  y  kaid  hwynt  SfC.  Sfc.  See  Pen.  MS.  155,  p.  95. 
1.  y  Deiamwnt  y  sydd  yn  dyfod  allau  or  ^ndia  fawr  ....  ends: 
21.  dsiet:  Muchvdd:.  a  ddaw  or  wlad  a  elwir  lyt  a  maen  ydiw  a 
brofiet  yn  dda,  y  inae  vn  fatb  arno  a  ddaw  o  vi-yttaen  fawr,  a 
hwnnw  sydd  ddv  a  disklaer,  a  pban  vo  yn  wressog  ef  a  gyfyd  y 
gwelltyn  Avrtbo  o  nattvr  ag  ef  lys — left  unflnished 

138       *i  kwynen  nid  rliyfedd     .... 

stad  wylwn  och  dristed  alaeth  Morgan  Elfel 

140  ILyraa  reol  i  adnabod  yr  arwydd  y  bv  y  llevad  yn  sefyll  &c. 

142  K.  at  Roivland  Vychan  o  gaergai  yn  liwyno  marfolacth 

holl  brydyddion  hymrv  .  j  =  hijnwat,  Rob:  Vychan  SfC. 
Gwae  ni  /  r  /  beirdd  gweinio  r  byd     .... 
arian  oedd  honn  goron  gre  |1   (1.  106) 

145  Blin  drwy  hallt  blaened  y  rhawg     .... 

ni  bo  /  r  /  taid  heb  vn  brawd  hwnn  .  /-j-       Httio  Arwystli 

146  Mar:  Lewis  givynn :  Dyn  wyf  wedi  anafv     .... 

-, nef  vchel  a  wnaethf  Kadwaladr  ap  Rys  Trefnant 

148      Drycha  goed  orvcha  gynt    .... 

Marchog  avr  dorchog  rovdn-inj  Anon 

Marwnadeu  Lewys  Gwynn  o  Drefescoh  .  -1 352  . 

150  Kwnstabl  Trefesgob  eonsten  //  y  gyfraith     .... 
tarw  brvch  wych  tir  Brychan  Jfm:  Dryslwyn 

151       fawr  oedd  ar  ferys     .... 

etli  rwyd  ar  /  n  /  wyth  rannj 

*  Beginning  wanting  and  many  lines  imperfect, 
t  First  half  of  many  lines  -n'anting. 
j  ?  imperfect. 


694(  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   114 

152  Trist  wylaw  troes  dialedd     ....  a 
c  dylyai  euaid  Lewya         .     1552     .            Tho^  ap  Howell 

153  Pwy  yvr  jv I  vnben  pur  iawabost     ....  b 
dwy  oes  ar  bawb  dos  ar  bel  .  /         Tho:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gtm 

155  "  JFieiddio  /  r  I  ffydd"  :  Pa  sawl  blwyddyn  beb  ddvnaw        c 
blinion  i  ddynion  a  ddaw     .... 
yn  ddim  ond  ym  menedd  ddvw*  Jeuan  Dyfi 

157  My  fi  y  sydd  denfydd  dig     ....  d 
y  byddaf  o  gwybyddir  .  /                               Dd:  ap  Gwilitn 

158  Och  farglwydd  pa  sawl  blwyddyn     ....  e 
i  Gwlen  ddiben  ei  ddydd*            Dd:  llwyd  ap  Wn  ap  Gr: 

160       Harri  sant  fry  or  oes  honn     ....  / 

a  gyrodd  dwyu  y  goron  .  /  Dd:  llwyd 

Marwnadeti  Jcuan  ap  Hoxvel  swrdwal  "  o  dir  Jarll " 
162       Gawr  ym  hoeres  grym  hiraetb     ....  g 

wedy  /r/  athro  .  .  .  kerdd  lawdden  aren  orofE 
kerd  Guttyn  y  glyn  y  sydd  gloff     .... 
gael  ystad  fwy  glwystad  vydd*     Ho:  ap  Dd:  ap  J.  ap  Rys 

164       y  mae  /  n  /  y  tir  myn  y  tau     ....  h 

da  voniad  ydwyf  finnav .  /*  ILe'n  Goch  y  dant 

166       Hardd  gyfellt  herwydd  gofeg  vel  goddeg     ....  i 

auoff  rwyf  oni  phroflr  .  /  Gr:  ap  Dd:  vychan 

168   Y  tarw  koch :  Edwart  ai  wyr  ai  drwy  /r/  taa     ....       li 
Hoy  gant  vn  lliw  ag  yntav .  /  Deio  ap  feu:  ddv 

171       Sion  vychan  o  forgannwg    ....  / 

ercbi  a  rhoi  /  r  /  ych  Rhvdd     .... 
llywydd  dyllad  lloi  ^fefaink  .  /  Hees  Nanmor 

174       Tydi  ddyn  tew  dy  ddonyav     ....  m 

i  ddyn  ei  dda  ai  ddvw  /  n  /  ddig  ,  /*  John  Kent 

1 76  Mol:  Lewis  ffwynn  ;  y  Hew  enwog  a  Uvniaidd     ....       « 
krist  wirnerth  kroes  duw  arnad.  Sion  brwynog 

178  Benedisiti  domine  ar  waitb  Siessus  ag  Alffa     ....       o 
penn  teyrn  y  teyruedd  dy  drigaredd  a  arcba .  /   Taliessin 

179  Meddylio  am  addoli  dvw  ai  fam  ydwyf  fi     .     .     .     .  ;; 
[gw]ledd  y  uiab  arglwydd  amen  .  /               Mred:  ap  Rhys 

180  krair  kred  ked  kynnydd  kreawd  llv  bedydd     ....        q 
dod  ym  gyfranniad  oth  wlad  atb  wledd  •  Jo  to  Goch 

184       Trugarog  vrenin  wyt  tri  kyffredin     ....  r 

ytti  kyffessaf  naf  nefol  dad  Dd;  ap  Gtvilim 

188  Mae  /n/  y  seler  dabler  deg    ....  s 
dav  swllt  yw  /  r  /  ergid  issaf  .  /*                     Hoicell  Davi 

189  Mol:  lewis  gwynn  ;  disgin  yr  rbin  yr  baf  ...  t 

braych  i  wlad  Brocbwel  ydwyd  .  /  Hutv  artoystyll 

191 ay  gynt  vyl  a  gaf  u 

vlaen  Nedd  fal  hen  addaf    .... 

]fr  tai  yn  ystvad  velltav  fawr 

yr  aetb  penkcirddiaeth  kerddawr     .... 

rhodd  hwn  a  geissiwn  y  gyd*         (i.  37)  || 


*  Manv  lines  are  imperfect  because  the  original  was  so. 


WILLIAM   PHILLIP   OF   HENDEE   VECHAN.  695 

193       Mae  wylaw  j\m  a  welir  /  mwya  htorm  ymhowys  dir  .  ,  .        a 
fo  ddiig  krist  ....  fredydd  lie  mae  byfrydwch  .... 
a  gwledd  a  uawdd  Arglwydd  nef.*  Anon 

197  J  Rich:^  ap  Syr  Roger  pilstvn  i  ovyn  Tclyn    auto.  S.  Vyohan. 

Prelad  kyvarf  branarvaes     ....  G^-.-  Vachan  h 

dewis  gwraic  dwywes  gwragedd  ap  Gr:  ap  JiJdn'^ 

201       Jr  dynnion  i  rhoed  ennyd  .     ,     .  na  bo  /  r  /  llv  .  .  .  c 

heb  Lewis  wych  gwbl  oes  hydd*  iSion  hlywedog 

205       Y  gwyrda  mae  gei[r]da  mawl     ....  d 

adel  irrain  hoedl  ai  rr[ydd]*  Anon 

207  Morgan  wr  hoiwlan  lie  lioli  ne  was  &c.  &c.  „      e 

208  Mwyn  wyd  glau  Rhyddgan  a  Ehwyddgerdd  rhywlwaith         / 
Rholand  Vychan  biirgerdd     .... 

wyr  byddysg  duw  aro  heddwch*  Ow:  Gwynedd 

209  Y  Hew  llwyd  ar  llaill  iw  ol     .     .  ,  g 
oea  hwy'n  y  llys  wenn  Sion  llwyd 

211       Mae  rrvw  garw  mawr  rragorol     ....  h 

Maestr  pirs  .  .  .  myn  gap  avr  a  menic  pan 
Meitr  a  woddai  motryddan     .... 
llonyddacb  nor    llynn  oeddvd  (1-  82)  || 

213  II  Ni  bydd  govchest  na  chwestiwn     ....  i 
Dioddefo  duw  ddafydd 

Drwy  ssaint  y  vyw  deiroes  hydd  .  Gioilym  gwynn 

b,      Af  ir  kor  ssyn  egored     ....  It 

abad  brenhindravl  aber 
konwy  glynn  lie  kan  y  gler     .... 
yn  bab  yn  rryfain  y  bych  John  ap  Howel 

214  Davydd  bael  afael  fvor  I 
Abad  wyth  ganwlad  ith  gor  &c  Ql.  1-18)  a  fragment. 


MS.  115  =  Hen.  519.  Poetry  chiefly  by  William  Puillip  of 
Hendee  Vechan.  Paper ;  about  12^  x  7 J  inclies  ;  72  pages,  many 
leaves  being  in  a  pitiable  state  of  decay  and  imperfect ;  third  quarter 
of  the  XTiith  century ;  interleaved  and  bound  in  half  morocco. 

1  Carol  at  Kiiffydd  Phylib 

fy  ffrins  am  Cymdeithion  am  caro  n  bur  ffyddlon  ...      m 
ni  ezamiwu  ni  drychwn  pwyu  drecha  Wm;  Phyllip 

2  Yn  lie  mawl  dwyfawl  difeth  ir  vnduw     ....  n 
medd-dod  a  thraflod  a  threth     .... 

treth  treth  hyd  at  feth  a  fydd  See  MS.  104  p.  29-       W.  Ph: 

3  J  Rolant  Vychan  yn  Rhyfel 

Ymladd  di  diiw  tri,  treia  iawn  wr  ****...     .       o 
hy  fychan  am  fychan  fil  Win:  Phyllip 

b.  Maer  Haw  yn  gwingaw  fal  y  gangen  deg  &c.  p 

Hugh  ap  Evan  ap  Robt: 

c.  Mi  fym  fel  ir  ydwyd,  yn  llawcn  ddi  brydd  ....  q 
ni  chymres  ni  ches  ni  chaf           Hugh  ap  Evan  ap  Robt: 

d.  Duw  gwynn  ond  Gressyn  llei  bii  #  *  *  *  &c,    ?   ,,  r 

*  Those   marked   with   an   asterisk   are    all   in   different   hands,    and   probably 
autographs. 
■]■  Gwraic  Kich;  oedd  Lleukv  v)  Mad;  voel  &c. 


696  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   115. 

4  []Farw]el  y  tir  liir,  miaf  ar  hyd  y  mor  &c.  H.  II.  Cynfcl 
h.      Gwelwn  na  wadwn  mae  Anedwydd  bod  &c.     ,,  „ 

c.  01  flaen  i  mae  edi'ach  ir  Jfangc  ar  ffol  &c.  H.  ap  J  ap  Ro. 

d.  Ond  mwy  clod  iw  bod,  yn  rhoi  bwydaii  n  ddwys     .     . 
bonedd  ti  ai  gweli  ydiw  gblyd  H.  ap  Jem  ap  Roht: 

e.  *  *  *  *  Arglwydd  rhwydd  i  rho  fi  wili  *  #  *       TV.  Ph: 

5  Mil  chwechant  is  [?  y  nen]  onid  cbwecb  a  rhigen 
pan  .  .  grynodd  .  .  .  pob  craig  serth  pob  pertb 

pob  p  *  *  *  #  Wm:  Jo:  Wyne 

b.  Mil  chwechant  Rhedant  ar  hyd  a  deuddsg  .... 

pan  fii  bring  iawn  rawn  yr  yd  &c.  Wm:  Ph: 

c.  l668 :  Mil  &c.  .  .  .  pan  aeth  marwolaeth  .... 

ar  feirch  gwyr  lloegr  gain  Wm:  Ph: 

d.  twmp  gwragedd:  Vn  nos  ar  bymtheg  wiw  Eiifln  &c. 

e.  ir  briwtwri  rwy  n  briitio  i  weled  ai  w«**  &c. 

6  Dychan  i  Abad  enlli — "ni  roe  n  rbad  vn  rhodd." 

[Aba]d  o  [ddy]£Eryn  dyfi     .... 

JDringc  al  meddai  fab  Alis 

brwder  sytt  eat  bread  ar  sis  &c.  &c.  Anon 

7  Byddwch  ffyddlon  a  charedig     .... 

kenaii  di  nerth,  Can  di  n  iach  „ 

8  J  ofyn  Cyllell  i  S.  Naney  ag  ingcorn  ynddiaphin  ysgrcfennii 

Annerch  Sion  vnion  Nanaii,  wr  ]ffangc     .... 
Mwy  i  bo  rhawg,  ir  mab  ai  rhoes  Wm:  PhyUipe 

9  Yn  iach  gael  na  da  na  dawn     .... 
lie  ni  ddaw  na  chlwy  na  henaint 

10       Fragments  of  two  Englynion  by  W.  Ph. 

b.  Daii  henwr  hwetwr  daii  hasti  choanog  &c. 

c.  J  fair :  Merch  ith  fab  Arab  wiw  eiirad  a  chwaer  .  .  . 

Gida  diiw  ai  ngylion 
11  The  pedigree  of  Charles  n.  traced  bade  to  Adam. 

14  Sheriffs  of  Merioneth :  Elis  Moris  de  Cleneney  loll, 

Seinglcyn  Vaughan  de    towyn    1542    John    Powys    1543 
Robt:  Salesbury     stops  here. 

15  Achau  mair :  merch  Johakym  &c. 

17       Pob  fiyddlon  galone  .  edrychwch  ar  fryche 
Bendithion  yn  ffrwyth  ******* 

19  Mae  Rowudied  yn  Rorio,  fii  gynt  yn  ysbeilio  .... 
Cymwys  oedd  rwmo  pob  rowndied  ai  gneifio  .... 

or  cwbwl  a  fydde  n  i  feddiant  .  A7ion 

b.  J  Syr  S.  Owen :  Korf  hercules  gynes,  gwanar,  maes 

drowodd  &c.  Gr:  Ph: 

c.  Wrth  dyngii  dyblii,  rhwng  dwyblaid  oth  fin  &c.  Wm:  Ph: 

d.  T)>  myglyd  drewUyd  iy  drylliog  gwael  &c. 

20  (ILyina  fedd  Annedd  ddinam  y  llawr  ar     .     .     .    . 
Rhodio  r  fynv.'ent  yn  ILann  ddwyne  Wm:  Philip) 

b.     (Geneth  fer  hestor  wedi  /  i  /  hystyn  &c.) 

21  Galw  ar  ddiiw  wrth  godi  r  bore     .... 

blin  yw  Ciiro  gras  a  mwrthwl  Wm:  Phyl/ippe 


WILLIAM  PHILLIP  OF  HENDRE   VECHAN.  697 

22  Dyri :  Pau  ddelo  r  dycUl  yn  fyngolwg  &c.    11.  lloijd  o  gynfd  a 

b.  Atteb  :  felly  rydym  bawb  or  dynion  &c.  [Fm:  I'hi/lip  h 

c.  DoJ  ym  iecb^d  Diiw  goriicha  &c.  „  „       c 

23  IFarwel  i  Hendre  fechan* 

Yn  iach  gyfriuach  y  gau     wych  iowiKlcr  fu  d 

Yn  iacli  Hendre  fecJian 
ar  llyfraii  eerdd  loftwgerdd  laii 
i  clnvithau  yn  iach  weithian 
Kefais  dy  i  gjsgy  yn  gysgod  i  f  j  w 
kefais  fwyd  a  diod 
am  baunedd  byd  fedd  i  fod 
a  than  bendith  ddiivv  ynod. 
Yn  lie  fy  bendref  byndriol  ar  been 
yma  ii-  byd  dayarol 
mi  gaf  bendve  wlad  nefol 
gann  ddiiw  nef  ag  ni  ddoi  n  fol' 
ffai'wel  goed  glwysgoec?  glwysgerdd  man  adar 
mvvyn  odiaeth  gowirgerdd 
fl'arivel  pob  Ihvyu  gadwyn  gerdd 
y  llvvybraii  i  gyd  lie  bii  r  gerdd  TVilliam  Phillip 

24  Mae  gwyr  iefangc  y  triphlwy  &c.  Ed.  Price    e 

25  Ocli  gred  ocb  augred  a  gvvyn     ....  f 
Jv  ibai  yddylon  hir  ddialedd                               TFin:  Phillip 

29  Pob  Cliiistion  yn  llawen  ar  wyneb  dayaren  ....  g 
In  ledio  en  twysso  ni  at  iessli                           „           „ 

30  Ni  all  athro  ffo  no  ffwl  or  vn  cwrs  &c.   TVilliam  Phillip  h 

b.  mae  byd  oer  ennyd  ar  awenydd  dyn  &c.         ,,  „  i 

c.  Hi  tretby  gafi  pob  gofyn  gida  byw  &e.  „  „  h 

31  Duw  mi  ath  gyfarcbaf  fe  naf  nefol  &c.  „  ,,  I 

b.  Tri  pbetli  ar  ddaearen  dan  haiilwen  a  lloer  ...  m 
ddiwedd  anrhydedd  oferedd  iw  chwant             „          „ 

c.  Dayar  a  rodia  ar  ddayar  fel  aiir  yn  disgleirio  &c.      „  n 

d.  Chwyrydd  wyf  yn  byw  dann  obelh  &c.  „  „  o 

32  Os  dwedai  /r/  gwir  er  gwaetha  r  sir  &c.      ,,  „  p 

'  b.       Duw  dy  nawdd  drwy  fawr  dosturi     ....  q 

A  thrig.iredd  nef  ym  henaid  .  Anon 

33  fyngwir  enaid  dowed  imi     ....  r 
diiw  an  dycco  ni  r  goleini|                     Vicar  llany mddyfri 

35  Vn  Diiw  bcb  amarch  itb  gyfarehaf  &c.    S''  Htm  RoberlsX   s 

36  Pann  feddjliwn  arglwydd  cii     .     .     ,     .  t 
Ehy  flin  a  fydd  i  diodde                                                 Anon 

37  Duw  Rwydd  i  chwy  seren  ole     .     .     .     .  u 
ben  ddel  achos  chwy  gewch  wybod                                  „ 


*  The  poet's  home.  His  elegy  to  Charles  i  brought  upon  him  the  resentment  of 
the  "  Powers  that  be,"  his  property  was  confiscated,  and  for  a  time  he  led  the  life  of 
an  outlaw,  sheltering  beneath  the  bracken  and  the  gorse  of  the  Welsh  hills. 

t  The  name  "  Rich:  Pughe  "  is  appended  to  this  in  the  place  usually  assigned  to 
the  author. 

X  "  or  Bei-ffro." 

y  98430,  C   C 


C98  PENIAUTH   MANUSCRIPTS   113-116. 

39       Diiw  liL'laeth  benatli  y  bjd  ai  ma[dda]u  ....            a 

(Uiw  mawr  i  daw  yrawared  Echo:  ap  linph 

b.  I'ob  ffi  wylh  pob  tylwyth  pob  tculii  pob  dawn  &c.  Jiaph  ap  Robert    b 

41       With  ystyriaeth  ystori     ....  c 

gwir  ddawn  a  thrigaredd  ddiiw  Wm:  Phillip 

44  Cardda  dos  a  rhodia  Cymrii     ....  d 
Oofia  dy  atliro  wedi  i  gladdu                               „         „ 

45  Mar:  Howel  Vaughan  o  Lan  y  llyn  .  l66g  . 

Pa  gvvynfau  pwy  a  genfydd     ....  e 

llawn  einioes  llawen  ini  Edwart  Morii 

50       Gwrandewch  ymddiddanion  sii  gyson  ar  gan     ,     .     .     .     f 
mae  r  corff  sudd  noeth  anfad  a  dillad  yrr  dyn    J.  C.  ff# 

61       Y  gwr  vwch  ben  goriwch  byd     ....  g 

)ma  Duw  nef  madde  i  ni  Dauid  ap  Rys 

53  Dy  ailie  ywr  hudolion     ....  h 
teg  oodd  pocd  tagu  iddi                 Rys  Goch  Glyndowrdwy 

b.       Os  budd  mercli  eglur  serch  glaear  son  in  gwlad  ....         i 
ar  mwyn  duw  ar  fy  min  dod  Anon 

54  Perigle  rhyfedd  ryfel  bwn     ....  k 
eiriach  i  dda  i  arall                                                 Sion  Kent 

55  Pruddlwm  ywr  koriF  priddlyd     ....  / 
gytal  ar  tri  syrytor         (1.  02)  || 

57-66  Of  these  pages  mere  fragments  remain. 

68  An  autograph  letter  and  englynion  to  the  Rev.  Wm:  Wijnn  of  Jesus  College 
Odford  by  John  Bradford  of  Bettws  near  Bridgend,  Glam:  26  .  11  .  1~i3(i 

Mewn  serch  gwii-  annerch  Gwr  union  Anwyl     ....  m 

Urddedig  djsgedigych  "^exian -Bradford 

71  "^r  un  gwr*  Pob  prydudd     'wenadd  wiw  hynod — Gymro     ....  n 

Piu  or  iaith  rywiog  Pen  yr  Athrawon      Johan  Thomas]  de  Manavon 

*  Periglor  Llangynhafal.  f  Scripsit  et  fecit. 


MS.  116  =  Hen.  215  (numbered  '3'  previously).  The  Poetical 
Works  of  Sion  Kain.  Paper ;  12  X  7  J  inches  ;  892  pages ;  1023- 
1G47  ;  strongly  bound  in  full  morocco. 

This  MS.  is  throughout,  with  the  exception  of  the  titles  which  are  in  the  hand 
of  Rob:  Vaughan,  in  the  autograph  of  tlie  poet,  and  nearly  all  the  sheets  bear 
evidence  of  having  been  folded  and  carried  in  the  pocket  of  the  bard,  or  of  the 
persons  to  whom  the  KywySeu  were  respectively  addressed. 

1  Mot:  4  7nab  Sion  Trevor  o  drevalyn  a 

O  dai  envy 00  adwaenwn     .... 
bedwar  }arll  heb  dreio  r  llin  .  /  Rys  Cain 

5  Mar:  Antoni  PiU :  Dvll  yr  Angav  dall  wreugyn     ...       p 
a  vo  naw  oea  vyw  n  i  ol         .  1623  .  Sion  Kain 

9  y  Edw:  Uivyd  or  Sam :  Yr  hydd  gwar  hawdd  i  garv  .  .        q 

duw  nef  ath  adawo  n  wr  .  /         .  1623  . 
13  jf  Sion  Roberts  Havod  y  bwch  .  l62S  . 

y  Gwrolwalch  di  grevlawn     ....  r 

yw  oh  evro  n  jfarll  ewch  ir  nod 

17  J  S.  Jfans  or  fftrm  :  Y  Glaiu  ir  galon  eryr     ,     ,     .    ,  s 

diiw  iicf  atli  fidawo  i  nj ,  /         1625 


THE   WORKS   OF   SlOJf   KAIN,  699 

21  J  Rissiart  Jones  o  Lanvair  Dyffryn   Clinjd  .    16^5  . 

Y  Glain  galawiit  glan  galon     ....  a 
Tair  oes  gann  dduw  ytt  Rissiavt                                ,V,  f\iii/i 

'Z5  ^  Edw:  Pr)/s  or  llwijii  ynii  .   1625  . 

Yr  oen  gwjnu   ar  iawn  gynnj'fUl     ....  ft 

yu  llawn  iacli  yn  y  llwyn  yim 

29  f  Him  Nannav:  Yr  hydd  gwycli  ihodiliog  vcLel  ,  .  ,  .  o 

i  cliwi  n  va  walcli  o  nannav,/     '/62c;  . 

33  ILanvred — kymod :  Prudd  o  vaidd  parai  dduw  vi  .  .  .  .         d 
air  dig  ^n  er  dog  ynys  .  ^6g5  . 

37  3Ia>-:  Sian  gwraig  Gr;  Ihoyd  or  Domgae  ,  1623  . 

Diliw  fv  vriwiad  elawr     ....  c 

Haw  diiw  gwynn  i  llwyd  i  gwr 

41  3far:  Gr:  Puio  Dolafon  ddu  .  -1625  . 

Troes  diiw  r  rhod  iw  tristav  rhawg     ....  y 

ae  ddiiw  wynn  ar  ddav  enaid. 

45  Mol:  Richard  Puw  o  Bdolafon  ddu  .  1626  . 

Wrtli  ddeall  araith  ddiwyd     ....  g 

dy  oe&  u  deiroes  y  del. 

49  f  SioH   Vachan  or  Pant  glas  .  16^26  . 

Y  Gwr  liael  vry  gwrol  vronn     ....  k 
a  saith  ciuioes  ith  wyneb  .  / 

53  Mol:  Ulystan  Otoen  0  Rita  S'aeson  .  162'^  , 

Or  llv  tryraiou  Jeirll  tramawr     ....  i 

Onis  doi  n  Jarll  riis  daw  neb  .  / 

57  jf  Evan  Glynn:  Yr  liael  gwych  yn  rhywlio  gwjr  ...  h 

iav  von  gwlad  i  vyw  n  y  Glynn  .  1()2'i   . 

61  ^  dd:  blaeney :  Ofer  iawn  heb  vri  ennyd     ....  I 

(diiw  n  y  blaen)  denwi  Blaenav  .  / 162"!   . 

C5  jf  Byrs  TLoyd  or  Ddol  pan  yn  Siryf  .   idSf   .  Also  p.  11  below. 

Y  Hew  Ihvyd  ar  llv  llydan     ...  m 
a  cliwcliwi  n  iach  chwecban  oes  .  / 

69  y  Richard  Edicards  o  Dref  Onnen  .   7(527   ■ 

Y  Gwrolwalch  di  grevlawn     ...  n 
byw  n  dy  lys  yn  benn  dy  wlad  . 

73  jl  Dd:  ILoyd  or  ffinani  yn  rhef  Eglwy.i  .   l()2~l   . 

Y  Ihvyd  ir  gall  hyder  gw^r     ....  o 
drwy  ddiiw  doeth  dy  radd  dithav  .  / 

77   Y  Hew   llwyd  &C.     See  p.  65  above.  p 

81   Mar:  Gr:  TLicyd  or  Domgae  .  1621  . 

Bar  troes  duw  a  bair  tristav     ....  q 

Oes  yn  He  liwnn  i  Sion  llwyd  ./ 

85  jf  Sion  Kyffin  llwyn  y  knotie  aer  Gr:  Kyffin  or  Cue  Cock 

Os  hael  0  ddewis  helynt     ....  r 

ywch  yr  el  ddrych  yr  haelion  .  162§  . 

89  jf  Edit):  Hanmer  or  Bryn :  Y  Gorevfab  gwar  ifank  ....      s 
Hanmer  ywch  mewn  mawr  iechyd .  /  162S  . 

93  J  Sion  ILivyd  Rondl:  Yr  oen  diiw  gwiir  iawn  di  gel  ...     t 
dy  einioes  vo  degoes  dyn./        l62§  . 

C  C  2 


700  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT  116. 

97  J  Syr  Hoesser  Mostyn  .  l62§  . 

"]  mae  vslvs  ym  Mostyn     ....  a 

iir  llinv  dal  ^arll  i  delych  .  /  Sio7i  Kain 

101   f  fVm:  Dolben:  Vu  ocn  a  gawn  miniwn  gwyr     ....     6 
del  a  byw  n  hir  dolben  hael  .  162^  . 

J  05  y  D.  llwyd  0  Vlaen  Jal :  Y  Hew  llwyd  wellwell  ydych  .  ,  ,    e 
rhwysg  yvvch  a  gras  ag  ieehyd  .  '/62S  . 

100  jf  Sion  Roydon:  Y  Glain  nod  haal  galawnt  hydd  ....  d 

grasvs  walch  ath  groeso  Sion  .  /  lOZ'S  . 

113  y  Humffrai  Sions  vikar  llangollen  .  162§  , 

Y  llan  ir  gall  llawn  air"  gwr     ....  e 
dcwr  di  svgl  dri  oed  Siagob./ 

117  y  ffan  llwyd  o  Lann  viddyn  .  1628  . 

^essv  nodes  iawn  ydyw     ....  f 

i  vyw  n  holl  iach  ^fan  Ilw'yd 

121  J  liys  llwyd  o  Gowxnivy :  Y  dewr  goi'ff  di  oriog  waith  .  ,  ■,  g 

ath  eiiiioes  vo  degoes  dyn .  /  162§  , 

125  Mar:  SianJiin  JLoyd  or  Berth  Iwyd  ,  l62§  . 

Gwac  nhwy  u  awr  gwanbav  a  wnaeth     ....  h 

?  vo  n  5farll  i  vyw  n  i  61 .  / 

131   Mar:  Dd:  ap  Sion  ap  Dd:  — "  oer  .  .  mechain  i  gyd" 

Oer  yw  son  er  ys  ennyd     ....  t 

oi  viae  11  i  r.ef  lawonydd .  /  .  162S  . 

137  Mar:  Margred  gwraig  Sion  JLwyd  a  Jal  .  162§  , 

I'roes  diiw  anap  trist  anial     ....  k 

ihwysg  f  aril  a  hir  oes  iw  gwr  .     cp.  779  below. 

1-11  Mar:  Gr:  Wynn  0  Lann  Verrys  .  i62S  . 

Trom  gafod  yw  term  gofal     ....  / 

ras  yn  vawr  iw  aer  sy  n  vyw 

147  3far:  Sion  Trevor  0  bentre  kynwrig  .  1628  . 

Diliw  fy  ddygiad  elawr     ....  m 

y  bo  i  aer  hael  yn  byw  rhawg .  / 

151  jf  Wmffrai  llwyd -person  Erhistoc  .  iOsg  . 

Mae  <*n  lion  glan  llawn  glod     ....  n 

Awdwr  da  nghadair  dewi .  / 

155  J  Rys  Tomas  0  veifod :  ^  mae  haelion  lie  i  molir  ....  0 

Kys  ywch  hir  oes  a  ieehyd./  1629 

159  J  Hwmffrey  Wynn  0  Veifod  .  1629  . 

Yr  h'ydd  gwar  dewr  hawddgar  dwys     ....  p 

hj>n  o  sias  na  hen  Sioswy 

163  7  Edie:  TLwyd  0  Berthlwyd  .  l62Q  . 

Os  hir  iawu  vessvr  henoed     ....  q 

hap  ar  w^r  vil  Emprwr  vych 

167  7  ^'^I/''  -^'^"'•'  Trevor:  Y  marchog  klav  enwog  glod    ...        r 
a  choron  ^arll  ich  rhann  el  ./  1629  . 

17 1  J  Rys  Tanud  :  Y  Hew  brav  tal  lie  bv  r  Tad    ....         s 
Trossod  henaint  Rys  Tanad  ./  y6^p  . 

175  J  Risaiart  Edwards  0  bentrewern  .  I62g  . 

Y  Gliiin  nod  hael  galont  hydd     ....  t 
ich  hir  oes  ich  rho  Jessv  .  / 


THE  WORKS  OF  SIGN  KAIN.  701 

179  f  Roioland  Owen  o  Fachynlleth  ,  l62g  . 

Vn  Hew  n  benn  nawllin  bonedd     .     .     ,  a 

ach  henwi  n  Jarll  vwch  na  n6b  Sion  Kaiii 

183  7  Rich:  Miltwn  .-  Y  Glain  nod  galon  Eidol     ....  6 

a  thair  oes  ith  ro  fessv  .  /  i62C)  . 

187  j^  Olvyr  llwyd  o  Loran :  Y  llwj'd  ystig  Hew  distaw  ...  c 

draw  vgeinoes  drwy  gynnydd  .  /  ^62p  . 

191  _f  5yr  Sion  Frys  or  Drenewydd,  Baronet  ,  lOsg  . 

Mae  Vn  kennym  an  kynnail     ....  d 

a  Thwysog  ith  ddewiser  .  / 

195  Mar:  Jfan  ap  Wniffrey :  Doe  gwelais  dig  i  wylir  ...  e 

Yn  oen  dof  enaid  ffan  .   l62g  . 

199  /  Ediv:  Gethin :  "j  mae  n  i  g6st  ym  Vn  gwr  ....  / 

Oes  brig  honn  ymaesbrog  hir  .  l630  . 

203  f  Syr  Bob*  Evtyn :  Y  marcbog  kalonnog  glan  ....  g 

deuio  u  ^arll  ar  dir  yn  iaith  .  163Q  . 

209  J  Roland  Puw  o  Vathafarn  .  1630  . 

Yr  hydd  ir  vrai?g  rhvddavr  vrig     ....  h 

pvw  paro  diiw  parhav  does  .  / 

215  Mar:  plant  Olvir  ILicyd  o  Gynllaith  .  1631  . 

Och  waeddi  u  oer  och  ddvw  nef    ....  i 

oea  hen  vaith  i  rhai  sy  n  vyw  .  / 

219  J  Mr.  Banks,  Dean  Assaf:  Or  deoniaid  ar  dynion  ...  k 

Dean  Banks  a  wnel  diiw  n  benn .  / 

223  jf  Wm:  Dolben  :  Y  Sirif  balfais  eryr     ....  I 

ach  henwi  n  ^arH  vwch  na  neb  .  1631  . 

227  J  Edioard  Pilstwn  person  Manafon  .  1631  . 

Wrth  ddeall  kyfraith  ddiwyd     ....  m 

a  chaer  ne  York  ich  rhann  el .  /     Cp.  p.  287  below. 

231  f  Arthur  Pry s  or  Vaenor  .  l631  . 

Y  Hew  n  is  duw  Hawn  i  stor     ....  n 
ath  oes  yn  ddegoes  a  ddel .  / 

235  /  jfja7i  Morgan  person  Llanverrys  .  1631  . 

Y  rhwydda  i  glod  rhoddiog  wledd     ....  o 
Dewi  ne  Gaer  y  djn  gwych 

239  7  Roesser  Davis  hwnstabl  Castell  Duhjn  .  /  l631  . 

Y  keidwad  rhag  trechiad  trin     ....  p 

245  Mar:  S.  Edwards :  Ty  di  r  byd  hvdwr  y  balch  ...  q 

lluossawg  sy  n  Haw  Jessy  .j  1631  . 

249  Mar:  Mart  vy  Leiois  ap  Otoen  gwraig  S.  TVyn  Rys  or 

llwyn  ynn  :  Kloya  oer  sydd  klyw  r  oes  bona     .     ,     ,     r 
hiroedl  iw  phlant  ai  hwyriou  .  1631  . 

253  Mar:  fiowlk  Miltwn :  Dialedd  dv  a  welynt     ....  s 

a  vo  naw  oes  vyw  n  1  ol ,  / 

257  Mar:  Siams  Evtyn :  Troes  adfyd  rhvw  i^s  vdfawr  ...  / 

y  bo  i  vn  aer  byw  n  i  61 .  /   1631  . 

261   Mar:  Pyrs  llwyd  or  Ddol :  Och  Brydaiii  wycha  brodir  .  .  .    u 
ar  %dd  Hawn  vo  i  llvffydd  Hwyd  .  /  1631  . 


162  PENIAHTH  MA.^ruSORIPT   116. 

269  y  Salbri  mab  Si/r  Edwart  llwtjd  ac  "  Aer  y  Berth  Lwt/d" 

Klywais  eni  Aer  klowswin  wedd     ....  a 

vych  ar  barth  wlych  y  Berth  Iwyd .  /  1632  .     Sion  Kain 

273  ^Robert  Wijnn  or  Voelas  .  -1632  . 

Mae  Gwr  bael  mae  gair  i  hwnn     ....  b 

llwyr  vawl  vo  "Jarll  or  Voelas  . 

277  ^  Hiao  llwyd  o  ffoi'ol :  Molaf  ^n  Aer  mil  vo  n  i  61  .  .  .        c 
Hviw  del  yvvch  lioedl  a  iechyd./  1632  . 

2Sl  jf  Sion  hi/ffin  vikar  Croesosswallt  .  1632  , 

Da  i  karodd  rbwyddodd  yr  hawl     ....  d 

dyrd  ar  York  diiw  ar  dy  rann .  / 

287  jf  Sio)i  Williams  viJicir  JLan  Rhayadr  y  mochnant  .  1632  . 

Y  lien  0  ras  Uawn  ar  ol    .     .     .     .  e 
a  chaer  ne  York  ich  rhann  el  .  /      Cp.  p.  227  atove. 

291  ^  TFm:  Ow:  o  Porhynlyn :  Mae  d^n  o  waed  Hwlkyn  heu  .  .    / 
yell  ces  yn  deiroes  y  del  ./  l632  . 

295  Mar:  Syr  Hani  Salbri  a  Lyiveni,  marchog  .  1632  . 

Dialedd  duw  a  welynf,     ....  g 

braint  hyf  ir  Barnet  ifank 

299  Mar:  Syr  Sion  JLwyd  a  Geisivyn,  marchog  .  1632  . 

Bj>d  diddysg  ym  bod  heddyw     ....  h 

varcliog  aetli  iw  verch  ai  gwr  .  / 

305  Mar:  Syr  Tomas  Miltwn  .  1632  . 

Klywais  waedd  vawr  klais  oedd  vaith     ....  i 

ymynwes  diiw  mann  sy  deg .  / 

309  Mar:  S.  Nannav  :  Gwae  Iv  r  sir  gwyl  yr  ces  honn  ...        k 
Krist  wyun  kroesed  i  enaid  .  /  1632  . 

313  Mar:  Elsbeth  gwraig  PVmffre  lloyd  {yr  attwrnai)  .  1632  . 

Os  trom  oedd  ystorra  vddynt     ....  I 

Haw  diiw  gwynn  y  Uwyd  i  gwr 

319  7  Domas  lloyd  o  Riicabon  .  l633  . 

Gwelais  \fs  dog  Iwys  les  da     ...     .  m 

ras  yn  Uawn  iw  aer  Sion  llwyd .  / 

32.1  jf  Roger  Trevor:  Y  Gwrolwalch  di  grevlawn     ....        » 
Trwy  vaivr  hvk  ytt  Trevor  Ian  .  / 

327  J  Domas  Jfam  :  Y  maelor  i  mae  Alarcli     ....  o 

ith  raid  ti  ath  Aer  Evtyn  .   i633  . 

831  J  Syr  Siams  Prys,  marchog,  o  ynys  y  maengwyn  .  1633  . 

Y  marchog  trigarog  iawn     ....  p 
yn  hen  Jarll  ynhowyn  el 

335  J  Syr  Tomas  Salbri  o  Lyiveni  .   1633  . 

Y  maichog  klav  mawr  ych  kldd     ....  ? 
nj.irk  sy  vwy  ywch  markwys  vydd  .  / 

339  Mol:  Gr:  Nanney  or  Dolegwyrui  .  1633  . 

Vn  (]fn  M\v  sy  ti  dwyn  y  b^l     ....  r 

nch  henwi  n  ^arli  vwch  no  neb  .  / 

343  f  Lcwys  Nannav  o  Vaes  y  pandy  .  1633  . 

Y  Glain  difalcli  glan  dyfiant     ....  « 
jDwyrwy  n  barcli  yma  i  vyw  n  bcnn  ,  / 


TfiE  WORKS  OF  SION  KAIN.  703 

347  J  Sion  lltvi/d  o  Riwaedog  .  l633  . 

Mae  Aer  keunym  ryw  Kynan     ....  a 

del  n  ]farll  da  dyli  u  wir  Sion  Kain 

351  Mar:  D^'  ffoiok  Prys  (y  defein)  o  lann  vechain  .   1633  . 

Oer  gwyn  yw  awr  ag  ennyd     ....  b 

Eisag  bwys  yw  u  Esgob  Sion  . 

355  Mar:  Edward  Prys  or  TLmyn  ynn  .  l633  . 

Sein  oer  boeu  fv  synnv  r  bj^d     ....  c 

diiw  iw  Aer  Sion  deiroes  hir .  / 

359  Mar:  Sio7i  ILwyd  o  Rhoabon  .  l633  . 

Troes  hiraeth  dfwm  alaeth  mawr     ....  d 

diiw  gwynn  gyda  i  deg  ennid .  / 

363  Mar:  3Icstres  Elis  o  bias  Air  he  .  '1 632  . 

Trees  wylaw  maith  tros  Iv  mawr     ....  6 

diiw  n  blaid  gyda  i  henaid  hi  .  / 

367  Blar:  Gr:  Tanad  vikar  ILann  ymlodwel  .   l633  . 

Troes  duw  ias  oer  trais  di  sal     ...     .  / 

iw  vyw  del  a  nef  iw  dad 

371   Mar:  morys  lloyd  o  Lan  Armou  .    1 633  . 

Krist  ai  rhoes  gwae  r  kroestai  r  hawg  ....  ff 

diiw  mawr  i  enaid  morys 

377  Mar:  liys  lloyd  o  Gowrmvy  .   l633  . 

K^r  ywch  weled  kroch  wylir     ....  A 

ras  yn  llawn  iw  Aer  Sion  Uwyd 

381  Mar:"  Stains  Phylips:  Safodd  drwy  Sir  vaesyfed  ....  t 

am  raiin  teg  mae  r  enaid  liael  .  l633  . 

385  Mar:  Edward  Gethin  o  Faesbrog  .  1633  . 

Trees  dvnvstr  treisio  dynion     ....  k 

a  vo  naw  oes  vyw  n  i  ol 

391  _f  EissiartMiltwn :  Y  Hew  tal  ifarllwaed  helaeth  ....  I 

adael  ywch  hoedl  a  iechyd  .  /  1634  . 

395  j^  Sion  Uwyd  0  Gowrnwy 

diiw  n  rhwydd  ir  d^n  a  rhyddyd     ....  »i 

awr  deisiav  drwy  rad  ^essv .  /  l63A  . 

399  /  Rob:  Blodwel :  Mae  Aer  gwar  am  wir  gariad  ....  n 

am  y  wlad  a  vo  mlodwal./  l63/f  . 

403  jf  Edicart  wynn  or  plas  yn  Eimant  .  1631^  , 

Vn  gwr  ym  aeth  gaerav  main     ....  o 

Ay  oes  yn  ddegoes  a  ddel .  /        Cp.  537,  721,  below. 
407  J  Hivnvffrey  llviyd  yr  Attwrne   .   163^  . 

Pwy  ar  lawnder  p<>r  lendyd     ....  p 

vvyth  hir  oea  ith  ro  ^essv  .  / 

411  Mar:  S.  Blodwel :  Och  ddwywlad  klyvvch  ddialedd  ...  q 

ai  bv^r  ras  iw  vab  Eissiart./         1634  . 

417  Ma?-:  Sion  Uwyd  o  Lannvorda  ,  1634  . 

Och  viloedd  klywch  ofalv     ....  r 

a  vo  naw  oes  vyw  n  i  ol .  / 
423  Mar:  Dd:  Morys  :  Blin  doe  a  fv  blaned  vaith     ...  s 

a  vo  naw  oes  vyw  n  i  61 .  /         l63!i.  . 
429  Mol:  Edwart  Tanad  vikar  llami  y mlodwal  .   l635  . 

Y  Gwr  Ilea  glan  garr-Uaw  n  gwlad     ....  t 

ach  evi-o  n  York  ich  rhanu  el .  / 


704  PENIAllfH  MANUSCRIPT    116. 

433  7  TFui;  Gcthin  :  Yinaesbroc  i  mao  mesbren     ....  a 

ywch  hir  ocs  ach  Acr  Roesser  .   1635  .  Sion  Kain 

437  f  Rohart  ffowllis  o  L.  vechain  "person  da  pris  naw  dean." 

Y  G\rr  lion  dwg  w)>r  Uv  ii  d'ol     ....  l 
dcwi  no  Ga,er  y  (\^i\  gwjch  .  /         .  l635  . 

441  y  Roesser  Puw  a  Lwyn  Ujdmon  yn  Hmwi  y  mynych 

Y  Gwr  ifank  gair  Ofvdd     ....  e 
pvw  paro  diiw  parbav  does  .  / 

445  J  Andrew  parri '' mwya  i  afael  ym  meifod"  .  lOSo  . 

Mao^  <;n  gwr  glan  mewn  gwir  glod     ....  d 

piuri  mewa  bap  a  hiroes  .  / 

449  /  Simwnt  Thelwal  o  Bias  y  ward  .  163S  . 

Vn  Gwr  eiiwog  a  evrir     ....  e 

danii  dduw  gwjnn  doi  ii  dd<^g  vnwaith 
453  /  D'  Sion  Owens  cfffob  Assa,  "  Aihro 
addfed  .  .  .  archiagon  i  von." 

Witb  reol  yr  Atluawon     ....  f 

■wv  glew  ddysg  varglwydd  Esgob .  /         163S  . 
459  jf  Wm.  Mostyn :  Mae  <in  Gwr  main  a  garaf  ....  g 

el  y  moistr  wiliarn  mostvn  .  /         1635  , 
463  jf  Rissiart  Parri  or  Kibm  ynhegaingl  .  1635  . 

Y  Gwr  enwog  rieni     ....  h 
power  )arll  ywch  parri  wynn  .  / 

467  Mar:  Ann  giuraig  Ilarri  Tudyr  o  Lann  vechain  .  l633 

Oer  oedd  alar  ar  ddeulv     ....  t 

a  vo  naw  oes  i  vyw  n  wytfa , 
471  Mar:  Edw:  Owen  o  Lanwddyn  .   l635. 

Trist  yw  r  s6n  tros  dayar  sydd     ....  k 

j  law  diiw  aeth  le  da  iawn  .  / 

475  Mar:  Siors  Pilstien  o  Emral  .  163S  . 

Trees  diiw  vdfa  trist  adfyd     ....  I 

gwedi  i  oes  ef  i  gadw  Sian .  / 

479  Mar:  Robert  Jones  ay sgwennau  .  1033  . 

O  ddiiw  wyiin  ai  ddaioui     ....  m 

ne  vwy  bid  iw  vab  Edwart  .  / 

485  y  Syr  Robert  Eytijn  .  1636  . 

Murchogion  gyiion  i  gwodd     .     .     ,     •  n 

diiw  r.cf  ai  g.ndawo  n  iach  . 

489  3Iol:  Tho'  Prys  :  Y  dewr  enaid  or  yuys  /  Gen'gog    ...  o 

einioes  liyd  3'r  ynys  honn  .  / 
493  f  Syr  Persi  Herbert :  Y  di-agwn  iw  diriogaetli  ....  p 

devro  n  ^arll  penn  dewiion  wyd .  /         1 636  . 
497  J  Syr  Edwart  TLwyd  or  Berthlwyd  .  1636  . 

Y  marcboc  fires  evrcc  sydd     ....  q 

Byw  n  y  glod  yn  beuu  gwledydd  ,  / 
501  y  Vathav  Prys :  Y  pennaeth  o  dop  henieirll  ....  r 

o  waitli  prius  vytli  matbav  prys  .  l636  . 
605  Mar:  Rowland  Owen  o  Vachynlleth  .   1636  . 

Acth  dolvr  maith  i  dcvlv     ....  s 

aer  am  wavr  i   Aer  Amen 
{)09  Mar:  Robtrt  tVynn  o  Vaes  mochnant  ,   1636  • 

"JVocs  diliw  treisiad  elavvr     .     .     ,     ,  t 

j'ds  a  no  111  iw  aer  ty  n  61  ,/ 


THE   WORKS   OF   SION   KAIN.  705 

513  Mar:  Wm:  Nannav ;  Hir  gwynwch  y  rlla^^'g  emijd  ...        <i 
Nannav  awn  niunav  iw  ol  .  /         'l6s6  .  Sicn  Kain 

517  Mar:  Rich:  Blodwel :  Diliw  fv  welctl  alaeth     ....  b 

deiroes  o  hj^d  iw  Aer  Sion  .  1636  . 

521  Mar:  Richard  Jones  0  Westyn  .  1636  . 

Til'  Marthin  ond  trwm  wrthym     ....  c 

oes  i  wraig  ddwyoes  ar  61 

525  Mar:  Dd:  Jones  0  Lamoddyn  .  1636  . 

Gwaith  ofer  yn  gaeth  hefyd     ....  d 

oi  vlaen  i  nef  lawenydd  . 

529  Mar:  Sian  ILtoyd  gwraig  Evan  Glynn  .  1636  . 

Tros  Arwystl  i  troes  hiraoth     ....  e 

gorevfab  iw  gwr  Jf'an  . 

633  /  Domas  Glynn  o  Nannllai  .  163J  . 

Vu  oen  duw  sy  u  enaid  sir     ....       '  / 

Saith  hir  oes  ith  ro  ^essv  .  / 

537  f  Edio:  Morys,"  harw  kaer  Aber  kynllaith"  .    16  ll   . 

Mae  gair  y  mwya  i  gaviad     ....  g 

dy  oes  yn  ddcgoes  a  ddel .  /     Cp.  403  above- 

541  y  Huw  Gethin  o  Vaesbroc  ,  l63y  . 

Vn  Gwr  leaf  mewn  gair  kyfaa     ....  h 

dy  oes  yn  ddwyoes  a  ddel .  / 

545  jf  Sion  Vychan  0  Ddvdlvst  .  163J  ■ 

Y  Gut  dof  howddgar  dyfiad     ....  i 

ne  f wy  ichwi  Sion  vychan  . 

549  3Iar:  IJttso  "  Knowsle,"  ffwraiff  (/)   Esgob  /fnivs,  (y)   Dd: 
Holant,  (3)  Wiliam  Wynn  o  Lanfair  .  163  J  . 
Troes  dvoer  gwyn  trist  ar  gylch     ...  h 

i  law  diiw  aeth  le  da  iawn  .  /      See  MS.  117,  p.  91. 

553  3far:  Sion  Miltion  0  "  Dwr  Gwenynawc"  .  l637  , 

Troes  dvoer  hwyl  trist  yw  rhawc     ....  / 

deiroes  yr  h^dd  dros  Aer  hwnn  ,  / 

557  3Iar:  Sion  Edwart  or  Wavn  .  l637  , 

Dvnvstr  fv  drawiad  anial    ....  m 

deiroes  yr  hydd  dros  aer  hwnn  . 

561  3Iar:  Wiliam  Gethin  0  Vaesbroc  .  1631  . 

Diliw  troed  wylaw  tradwys     ....  « 

i  law  diiw  aeth  le  da  iawn  .      Cp.  575  below. 

565  Mar:  Syr  Filer  mwUwn,  vstvs  Gwynedd  .  1638  . 

Troes  diiw  anap  trist  ennyd     ....  o 

ras  a  nerth  ir  rhai  sy  n  ol  . 

569  Mar:  Lvmley  Wiliams  0  Veifod  ,  1638  , 

Troes  diliw  treisiad  elawr    ....  p 

diiw  gwynu  gyda  i  deg  enaid 

575  3far:  EUn  TVemi  0  Ddolychawgryd  gwraig  Gr:  Nanncy 

Braw  a  wnaeth  briwiav  neithwyr     ....  q 

i  law  diiw  neth  le  da  iawn.  /  .  1638  .     Cp.  G.37  below. 

581  Mar:  Morgan  ap  Rys  0  Ddyffryn  Ceiriog  .  l63§ 

K^r  diiw  ai  rhoes  kryd  y  rhawg     ....  r 

el  ym  lie  hwnn  Elin  llwyd  .  / 


706  PENiARTH  MANUSCRIPT   116. 

587  /  Herbert  Vychan  :  Yr  aer  berl  ar  wyr  y  liyd  ...  a 

01-  brvt  vych  Herbert  vyclian  .  /         1639  •         Sion  Kaiii 

591  J  Rissiart  Prys  o  Ogerddan  .  l63()  . 

Yr  impren  o  rj^w  Emprwyr b 

ach  evro  n  Jarll  ich  rhann  el.  /  Also  MH.  117,  p.  3-19. 

505  f  Lewys  Nanncy  0  Vaes  y  pandy  .  163Q  . 

Klymv  r  wyf  klo  mawr  afael     ....  c 

Oes  i  nenn  Lewys  nannav  . 

599  J  Sion  ILwyd  0  Riwedawc  .  1639  . 

Af  a  mawl  He  kaf  y  medd     ....  d 

deuro  n  ^arll  penn  dewrion  wyd  . 

G03  J  Sion  Vyclian  0  Lan  y  llynn  .  idSQ  . 

Yr  liMd  gvvar  liael  rhoddgar  iawn     ....  e 

hiroes  ywch  maii  a  Sion  .  / 

607  jf  Owen  Edwards  o  Dref  Gam  ymhenfro  .  103<)  . 

Y  dewr  gwaedol  drwy  godiad     ....  / 
dy  oes  yn  deiroes  i  del .  / 

Gil  J  Syr  Edward  llwyd  or  Berthlwyd  .  1639  • 

Y  marclioc  avr  lielmoo  hir     ....  g 
bennod  liael  byw  n  benn  lylwyth          See  carj  below. 

615  /  Wiliam  Marys  o  Westyn  ^  ymro  OsswalW  .  lOSQ  . 

0  bv  gvr  pawb  ai  gwirien     ....  h 

wedi  i  rwysg  ef  deiroes  gwr  . 

621   f  Syr  Thomas  Salbri  0  Lyweni  .  lO/fO  , 

Y  Hew  n  geidwad  Hawn  gadarn     ....  i 
braeu.s  or  '^eirll  yn  brins  yr  ^1 

C25  y  Syr  Edw:  llwyd :  Moli  r  wyf  mawl  orevfawr     .     .     .     ,     k 
acb  aer  fo  jfarH  a  chav  r  varn  .   'iOsp  .     See  611  aboi'e. 

G29  Mar:  Ales  gwraig  Wiliam  Pennrhyn  .  163^  . 

Trees  dvnos  atbrist  yw  n  siwr     ....  / 

rliwysg  wj^ch  a  hiroes  iw  gwr    Cp.  823  below. 

633  Mar:  Margred  gwraig  Hugh  Derwas .  163C). 

Mae  oer  alaeth  mawr  wylwu     ....  m 

deiroes  i  Hiiw  derwas  hael  .  /      Sec  854  below. 

637  Mar:   Tomas  ystanlai  or  Knwhin  .  163(/  . 

Troes  diliw  treisiad  elawr     ....  n 

i  law  diiw  aeth  le  da  iawn./      Cp.  561,  575,  093. 

641  Mar:  Rolant  Faiw  o  Ddoly  korslwyn  .  I63i)  . 

Trist  yw  r  hwyl  He  troes  duw  rhawc     ...  0 

a  vo  naw  oes  vyw  n  i  ol  . 

645  3Iar:  Mathav  Prys  or  Park  .  1639 . 

Troes  diliw  treisiad  elawr     ....      Cp.  637  above.  p 

kadw  i  Aer  yn  benn  kedyrn  byth  . 

649  Mar:  Sion  Atkins  or  JDettddwr  .     idtfi  . 

Oer  oedd  och  berwydd  achos     ....  q 

cuw  mawr  iawn  i  mae  r  enaid  ./ 
653  Mol:  Arthur  Prys  or  Vaenor .     l6'.,0  . 

Mae  oeii  difalch  mwyn  dyfiad     ....  r 

dcvro  n  ]farll  penn  dewrion  wyd  .  / 
657   ?  IVmffre  Wynn  vikar  osswallt  .     1(>'fi  . 

Y  Hen  o  rym  Hawn  i  ras     ....  S 
dewi  ne  Gaer  y  A^n  gwyeli  . 


THE  WORKS   OF   SION  KAIN.  707 

661  f  liolant  Owaiti  person  Boclff'ari .     i6/fO  . 

Yr  awdvr  lieu  ar  dri  llv     .     .     ,     .  a 

a  cliaei-  yn  vark  icli  rhann  vydd  Suit  Kain 

665  f  Rissiard  llibijd  Attorney  ir  brenin  .      lOZ/O  . 

Hon  Awdvr  hynn  ni  wedynt     ....  b 

ach  evro  n  ifai'll  ewch  ir  nod  .  / 

671  7  Olfvr  morys  person  JLann  Bedr  .     /6/fO  . 

Y  rhwydda  i  glod  rhoddioc  wledd     ....  c 
Eisag  hvji  Esgob  yr  el .  / 

675  3far:  Edward  Jfans  o  Swinai  .     '1641 . 

Troes  dvnvstr  treisio  dynion     ....  d 

a  TO  uaw  oes  v^w  n  i  61 .  / 

679  3Iar:  Hocjer  Gethin  0  Vaesbrog  .     l6tf  I  . 

Trwm  arnom  yw  term  oornad     ....  c 

ai  b\*r  enaid  iw  brynwr .  / 

683  Mar:  Syr  Wiliani  Sions  0  Gastellmarch  .   l6'.,l. 

TJrav  y  darfv  braw  dirfawr     ....  / 

ar  graffweikh  vo  i  Aer  Gruilivdd  .  / 

689  Mar:  Roesser  Kinaston  Attwrney  0  liiwahon  .    1 6 If  I . 

Troes  diiw  ynn  och  trist  a  wnaetli     ....  g 

enw  mawr  iawn  i  mae  r  enaid  .  / 

693  Mar:  Sian  merch  Huw  Nannmo  gmaig  (/)  Elis  0  Riwcdnwr. 
(2)  Lewys  Gwynn  or  Dolav  Gwynn   .   lO/^/  . 
diliw  rhoed  dnlvr  yw  hynn     ....  h 

i  law  duw  aeth  le  da  iawn  .  /      Cp.  561,  .575,  G37,  7C3. 

697  Mar:  Wiliam  Grvffydd  0  Gaeniarfon  .  1641 . 

Trwm  yw  ar  wyr  tramawr  wedd     ....  i 

iechyd  hir  i  verchcd  hwnn  .  / 

701  jf  Sion  Wynn  0  Gessail  Gyfarcli  .   l6/fl  . 

Bv  kynan  glwyslan  i  gledd     ....  k 

Sion  yna  i  bych  Sion  yn  benn  .  / 

705  f  Rissiart  Pvw  0  Ddol  y  korslwyn  .  l6/fl . 

Hil  Seisyllt  hael  oes  oesoedd     .     .     .     :  I 

wyth  hir  oes  ith  ro  ^essv ,  / 

709  jf  Wm:  Morys:  Y  glain  hoywfraisg  glan  hyfr3d     ...       m 
a  chordded  fwyfwy  ch  vrddas  .  /     16/,  I  . 

713  jf  Owen  Theltoul :  Af  ar  gan  Efroc  wyncb     ....  n 

devro  n  Jarll  penn  dewrion  wyd*     16^1  . 

7i7  y  Z)'"  Win:  Gruffydd  Stawnsler  Bangor  a  JLunclwy  ,   lO.'/l . 

Yr  hydd  galond  rhwydd  galon     ....  o 

devro  n  ]farll  penn  dewrion  wyd*  .  /  Also  MS.  11?,  p.  30 r. 

721  jf  Win:  Pennrhyn:  Y  Hew  dv  doeth  lliw  dy  dad  ....  p 

dy  oes  yn  ddegoes  a  ddel./     l6lfl .    Cp.  403  and  53?  above. 

725  /  Sion  Oioens  esgob  TLanelwy  .     161^.1 . 

Dewis  gwyr  dwys  a  gerynt     ....  q 

ach  evro  n  York  ewch  ir  nbA. .  I 

729  J  Wiliam  Wynn  0  Lanfair  .     -I6/1.I  . 

Y  brevlew  ffyrf  berl  y  Sair  ...  r 
ach  evro  n  ^arll  ich  rliann  el  .  / 

♦  Tho  liDal  four  liliei  are  tlie  fiimo  iu  both  poems. 


708 


PENlAItiH   MANtf SCRIPT   116. 


9 
h 


733  J  Roh:  Gru^ijdd  o  Bengwern  .  164.I . 

Y  ddewgoifi  voncddigion     .... 

vo  i  chwi  a  mari  Amen  .  /  Ston  Kain 

Til  J  r>d:  Pennant :  Y  Gvvr  ifauk  arafaidd     .... 
y  bo  ch  ^vyneb  chwi  vnwaith  .  / 

741  y  ofrjn  lujmod  V/m:  Wynn  o  Lanfair  .  l6!i2. 
D^n  \vyr  vi  sydd  danu  vai  Siou     .... 
yn  oes  d$>n  eisiav  dwyneb . 

745  f  Dd:  Pennant  0  Bvchdan  .  16^2  . 

Y  Gwr  ifank  arafaidd     .... 

Y  bo  ch  wyneb  chwi  vn-waith .  / 

749  /  JF'm:  Robinson :  Klvdo  r  wyf  klod  orevfael     .... 
iw  gloi  n  gylch  am  y  gha  gwynn  .  16^3. 

753  7  Vorgan  Vyohan  i  ofyntivrch  dros  Sion  Tanat  ,  l6lf2 . 
Kaov  r  wyf  kyunar  ufael     .... 
i  chwi  hiroes  a  cbariad  .  / 

759  f  Robert  Dafis  ifank  o  Wysanav  .  l631! . 
Kanv  r  wyf  liawn  orevfael  .... 
ywcli  dafis  bob  mis  amen  , 

763  Mar:  Olfir  Morys .-  Diliw  fv  ddyrnod  Elawr     .     .     . 
i  law  diiw  aeth  le  da  iawn./     I6lf2  .     See  G93  above. 

767  Mar:  Tomas  Jfans :  Rhoed  i  Angav  rbvw  dynged  ...  i 

Oed  hen  iw  aer  Evtyn  wj^ch . 

771  Etto  :  Trwm  arnaf  y  tree  marwnad     ....  k 

diiw  gwynn  wyt  dwg  ui  atto  .  /     i64-2 . 

775  Ma)\-  Elin  ail  wraig  Hwm_ffrey  TL/wyd  yr  attwrney 

Trees  diiw  nef  trais  dv  a  wnaeth     ....  / 

deiroes  yr  hydd  dros  wr  honn . 

779  Mar:  Elnor  Morys  acres  JLoran  .     16^ . 

Aeth  alaeth  o  waith  elawr     ....     See  863  below.  m 

rhwysg  ^arll  a  hiroes  iw  gwr  .  /  See  137  above. 

783  Mar:  Wiliam  Leioys  Annwyl  .  I642  . 

Och  weled  trymed  tramwy     ....  « 

Amen  i  Wiliam  Anwyl 

789  Mar:  Lewys  Naney  0  Vaes  y  Pandy  .  l6/f2  . 

Pr<*dd  wyl  i  parodd  Elawr     ....  0 

yma  i  del  iw  vam  ai  dad . 

793  Mar:  Tomas  Mostyn  or  Rhvd  .  -1 642  . 

Trees  dvoer  gwyn  trist  ar  gylch     ....  p 

wcdi  i  rwysg  ef  deiroes  gwr . 

797  Mar:  Syr  Roger  Moslyn  .  164^  ■ 

Hir  noethai  krist  trist  i  trodd     ....  q 

deiroes  yr  hydd  dros  wyr  hwun  .  / 

801  f  Sion  Kinast  or  Bryngwyn  .  i6/iS  . 

Y  Gwr  difalch  gwar  dyfiad     ....  t 
kannoes  d^n  Sion  Kinast  w$>ch  .  / 

n  rheoli     ....  » 

/   I(>lt3  . 

809  jF  S.  Edio:  or  Wavn  :  Y  Hew  iawn  sad  llawcn  sydd  ...  t 

ach  henwi  n  Jarll  vwch  na  neb  .  16//3  . 


805  ^  Rtiffydd  Nanney  :  Or  haelion  sy 
Haw  nonn  i  gadw  Hew  Nannav 


THE   WORKS   OF   SIGN  KATN,  709 

813  Mar:  Syr  Siams  Prys  o  ynys  y  maengioyn,  marclwg  .  lOZ/S  . 
Tra  d\vys  yw  (rawiad  Jessv     ....  a 

i  vynwcs  diiw  vann  sy  deg  .      Cp.  827  below.        Sion  Kain 

819  Mar:  ArtJmr  Prys  or   Vaenor  .  16^3  . 

Powys  Iv  pvvy  sy  lawen     ....  b 

iw  wraig  ai  vercli  rywiog  vo  .  / 

823  Mar:  Als  Bwggs  gioraig  liohartffowllts  .   l6/f3  , 

Mae  dolvr  oeigvr  ergyd     ....  e 

rhwysg  -wj^ch  a  hiroes  iw  gwr  .      Cp.  629  above. 

827   Mar:  Capten,  Roesser  miltwn  o  Bias  Gadwgan  .  lOj/S  . 

Aeth  yn  61  gwaith  vn  olawr     ....  d 

i  vynwes  diiw  vann  sy  deg  .  /     Cp.  813  above. 

833  Mar:  Elsbeth  gtoraig  Syr  Gerard  Eetyn  .    1643  . 

Ti'oes  diiw  ynn  och  trist  a  wnaeth     ....  e 

ir  He  mae  vo  ^farll  Am^n  .  / 

839  Mar:  Sion  Vychan  ai  aer  Owen  Vychan  o  Benllyn  .   16^3  . 

Dilie  I'hoed  dolvr  yw  hynn     ....  f 

diiw  wynn  gyda  i  dav  cnaid 

845  Mar:  Sion  Vychan  or  Kaethle  vawr,  Tmvyn  ,  1(}/,3  . 

Diliw  rboed  wylir  0  liynn     ....  g 

a  Gwydd  .   .   Givion  yn  wag  gwae  ny  ni     .     .     . 
llvossawg  sy  n  Haw  fessii  .       See  MS.  ii7,p.  35. 

849  Mar:  D''  Sion  Dajis  0  Valheyd,   ' angel  o  ddyn'  .  lOj/J/.  . 

Trom  yw  oer  och  traniawr  wedd     ....  h 

difyr  vo  ii-  doctor  dafis  ./  AUoUS,.  117,  p.  555. 

854  A  note,  in  later  hand,  correcling  S.  C.'s  pedigree  of  A.  Gr:  p.  629  above. 

855  y  Sion  JLtuyd  o  Riwedoc  pan  oedd  glaf  .  l6jf5  . 

Troes  dv  fraw  hir  trist  fv  rhawc     ....  i 

hir  oed  i  vyw  n  Rhiwedawe  .  / 

859  Mar:  Rys  Tomas  o  ystyn  holwyn  .  l6l,.5  . 

Oer  oedd  alar  ai  ddilyd     ....  h 

yn  y  Trwm  i  enaid  B,ys .  f 

863  3far:  Sian  Arghoyddes  ILwyd  o  Geiswyn  .  16^5  . 

Aeth  alaeth  o  waith  elawr     ....    See  779  above.  I 

awr  eisiav  hael  aeres  honn  .  / 

867  Mar:  Waller  Grii^ydd  0  vechain  .  1646  . 

Oer  i  gwnn  awr  ag  ennyd     ....  m 

deiroes  i  Siors  dros  y  sir .  / 

871  jf  Sion  Kinast  or  Bryng wyn,  siryf  .  16^7  • 

Y  dewr  gwrol  drwy  gariad     ....  n 

y  bo  eh  wyneb  chwi  vnwaith  .  / 

875  Mar:  Sion  ILwyd  0  Riwedoc  .  164!  • 

Trom  yw  oer  och  tramawr  wedd     ....  o 

i  Lewys  wych  ar  ol  Sion  .  / 

879  Mar:  Him  Nannav  .  1641  . 

Troes  diliw  treisiad  elawr*     ....  p 

a  vo  n  'Jarch  i  vyw  n  i  ol  . 


'  The  first  line  of  the  next  elegy  is  the  same.      See  also  pp.  569,  037,  645. 


VlO  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPTS   116-117. 

885  Mar:  Marged  o  Lan  Tanad  gwraig  Edw:  Thelwal  . 

Troes  diliw  treisiad  elawr*     ....  a 

deiroes  yr  hydd  dros  wr  honn  .   16/f^  ,  Sion  Kain 

88!)  J  Siun  Vychaii  o  Gefn  bodig  .  16^§  , 

Y  rhwydda  i  glod  rhoddiog  lys     .     .     ,     ,  It 

adael  ywch  hoedl  a  iechyd  . 


MS.  117  =  Hen.  513.  Poetry  by  Rhys  &  Sion  Kain,  Richard 
Sj-  Sion  Philip,  etc.  Paper  ;  12  x  8  Inches ;  566  pages ;  mostly  in 
l!ie  autograph  of  the  respective  authors;  repaired  and  strongly  bound  in 
morocco. 

This  MS.  is  made  up  of  the  original  copies  of  the  Cywyddeu — the  paper,  with 
sliglit  exception,  bears  evidence  throughout  of  having  been  folded  iind  carried  in  the 
authors'  pockets  till  it  ivas  worn  at  the  creases.  The  text  is  naore  or  less  imperfect 
on  p.agts  1-4,  40S-G,  409-24,  431-2,  435-6,  443-50,  459-508,  517,  50 1-6,  and 
pages  559-60  cousist  of  fragments.  Titles  are,  as  in  MS.  IIC,  in  the  hand  of  Kob: 
Vaughan. 

1   Mar:  Si/r  Wiliam  Glyn — imperfect 

Tioes  duw  oer  sorr  trist  yw  r  sain     ....  c 

El  oi  vab  ar  61  i  vedd  .  Sion  Kain 

5  Mar:  Sijr  Rissiart  Prys  o  Ogerddan 

Mao  oer  alaeth  mawr  wylir     .     .     .     .  d 

ras  a  nerth  ir  rhai  sy  n  61 

9  Mar:  Edw:  Morys — "  athro  i  bob  liyfreithiwr  byw  " 

Troes  duw  anap  trist  ennyd     ....  e 

ymraint  haidd  mae  r  enaid  hael .  / 

13t  3Iar:  Hosier  gwraig  Sion  Miltwn  (o  Weunynog) 

Wylaw  r  wyf  val  yr  afon     ....  / 

ffriwlan  hael  ffar-wel  y  nhad  ./ 

19  Mar:  Toiiias  Prys  o  Lann  vred 

)essv  dirion  ystyried     ....  g 

a  vo  n  ^arll  i  vyw  n  i  61 
23  3far:  Edwart  aer  Him  ILwyd  o  Lwyn  y  maen  . 

Troes  duw  oer  och  trist  yr  aeth     ,     .     .     .  /* 

dihv  gwynn  mae  enaid  y  gwr  .  / 

27  Mar:  Catrin  Powel  o  Alrhe  .  ■1632  . 

f  ma3  wylaw  ym  raaelawr     ....  i 

a  gras  a  hap  i\v  gwr  Sion  .  / 
3 1   3/ar:  Tomas  Vychan  or  Pant  glas 

Troes  diiw  anwyl  trist  ennyd     ....  h 

i  Sion  i  Aer  sy  n  i  ol  .  / 
35       diliw  rhoed  wylir  o  hynn  &c.     See  MS.  1-16  p.  S4S.  I 

39  3Iar:  Lewys  Amoyl  .  .  bv  Siryf  .  .  ymeirion  .  1642  . 

Troes  dvoer  och  trist  oer  wedd     ...  m 

oi  vlaen  i  uef  lawenydd 
43  Mar:  Sian  llivyd  giuraig  phylib  Sienings 

Oer  wylaw  mown  arwyl  mawr     ...  n 

hiroedl  iw  phlant  ai  hwyrion  .  / 


*  The  first  lino  of  the  previous  elegy  is  tho;same.     See  also  pp.  569,  637,  645. 
t  The  Cywyddcii  on  pp.  13-19  have  no  signature,  but  they  aro  in  S.  Kain's  hand. 


THE   WOKKS   OF   RYS   AND   S.   KAIN.  711 

47  Mar:  Wm;  Wynn  o  Lanfair — "  lli/s  hinmuel  " 

Gair  vn  a  gae  -ar  wynedd     ....  « 

byw  yii  llaweii  yii  benn  llowydd  Sion  Kain 

51  Mar:  Katrin  givraig  (/)  Syr  lit/s  Gr:  or  Fcnnrliijn; 
(2)  Si/r  Tos  Mostyn 
Trawodd  byth  lie  trodd  y  bar     ....  b 

i  dyfv  parch  devfab 

55  Mar:  Wardinandg  Salbri  o  Lyweni 

Troes  duw  alaetb  trist  wylen     ....  e 

pi  vlaen  i  nef  lawenydd 

69  Mar:  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Leioys  JLwyd 

Mae  oer  boen  am  a  wyr  byd     ....  d 

ar  i  ol  iw  aer  wiliam  . 

63  Mar:  Sion  Salbri  a  Leweni 

Difrifol  dof  ar  ofyn     ....  e 

draw  u  vn  i  dirion  enaid  . 

67  Mar:  Elin  gwraig  {'I)  S.  Oioen ;  (2)  Syr  ffransvs 
Efyrs  .   1626 
Holl  vonedd  Givynedd  i  gyd     ....  J 

iw  liil  ai  bopi!  iw  hoi  .  / 

71  Ma7-:  Sion  Atkins  or  Deuddior  .   l6lfO  . 

Oer  oedd  och  herwydd  achos     ....  g 

enw  mawr  iawn  i  mae  r  eaaid  . 

75  f  D''  Sion  Owen  Esgob  TLan  Elwy  .  1641  . 

Dewis  g'W)>r  dwys  a  gerynt     ....  h 

ac  evro  n  York  ewch  ir  n6d  . 

79  3Iar:  Wm:  Thomas  ffrisiior  o  GroesOswallt  .   16^,1  . 

Wylaw  r  ydym  Iwyr  adwyth     ....  i 

llvossawg  sy  n  llaw  Jessy  .  / 

83  Mar:  Ann  gwraig  Sion  Prys  or  Rhiiolas  .   lOOi)  . 

Troes  diiw  nyth  trist  yw  ynn  ni     .     .     .     .  A 

a  drigo  n  iach  drigain  oes  .  / 

87  Mar:   Wm:  Nannav  0  Ddollechawgryd  .  16 36  . 

Hir  Gwynwch  y  rhawg  ennyd     ....  / 

Nannay,  awn  ninnav  iw  61  .  / 

91  Mar:  Liws  Kaowsle  gwraig  yr  Esgob  Huws  .   lOSI  . 

Troes  dvoer  gwyn  trist  ar  gylch  &c.      Sec  MS.  116,  p.  549.     m 

95  Mol:  Morgan  Glynn :   X  dewr  galoud  avr  goler  ....  n 

dwyocs  ua  ba  deisiav  n  benn  .  /  Rys  Cain 

101  Mol:  Gr:  Nannav  :  Or  haelion  sy  n  rheoli     ....  o 

Haw  Nonn  i  gadw  Hew  Nannav.     l6/t3  .  S.  Kain 

105  jf  Robert  ILivyd  or  Rliiw  Goch 

Mae  vn  ai  half  He  mae  /  n  /  bvdd     ....  p 

drych-  gwynedd  dewr  cliwevgeinoes  .  /  S.  K, 

109  f  R.  Tomas  o  Veifod :  Yr  oen  glan  i  rannv  gwledd  ...         q 
oes  ytt  yma  Rys  Tomas  S.  Kain 

113  y  S.  Wynn  o  Gonwy  :  Mne  gwr  kail  yma  a  gar  kant     .     .     .    r 
i  chwi  r  el  ddrych  yr  haelion  .  /  ,, 

117  J  Simion  Thelwal:  0  Sgwieriaid  os  gwidJwu  (?)....      s 
dann  nef  ath  adawo  n  iach  .  S.  K, 


712  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  117. 

121  Mol:  Tomas  TLwyd  (o  Nantffreuer)  .  15g5  . 

Pa  \vr  enwog  pvr  vnion     ....  a 

boed  hir  ywch  byw  trwy  iechyd  Iii/s  kain 

125  f  Sion  Trevor  o  Vryn  kvnallt 

Pwy  r  gwr  doeth  piav  r  gair  da     ...     ,  6 

yn  ochr  y  wavn  i  cliwi  r  el .  /  Rtjs  Cain 

1 29  Mol:  pedwar  mab  Sion  Trevor  o  Drevalyn 

O  dai  en  woe  adwaenwn     ....  c 

bedwar  jfarll  heb  dreio  r  llin  „         ^^ 

133  Mol:  ffowlh  midltwn:  )  mae  Ei-yr  mwy  arwallt  ...  d 

ich  liil  ach  had  ich  ol  chwi .  /  „        „ 

137  jf  J.  Edw:  Mwkhtoti:  By  nawdd  ar  lied  noddvvr  llv     .     .    .  e 
ai  dri  ood  iw  Aer  Edwart  ,,        ,, 

141  f  Sienkin  Uwyd  or  Berth  Iwyd 

Rliodd  duw  nef  rhwydd  dann  ofyn     ....  f 

kann  mlynedd  kynn  diwedd  does  no  signature 

Crwi'BEU  AC  Odleu  Sion  Kain. 

147  y  Edwart  IVilianis  person  y  Drewen  I626 

Y  GAr  lien  doeth  gwar  llawn  dysg     ....  g 
dvram  a  byw  bedeiroes                                           Sion  Kain 

151  J  Elis  Brynkir  :X  Glain  hael  galon  helaeth     ....         h 
a  chewch  ped  vae  chwech  ychen 

155  Elto :  Y  Gwr  Gwyan  ar  gair  gannoes     ....  i 

diiw  gwynn  hael  dy  dygio  n  hir  .  1626  . 

161  J  Wm:  Prys  or  Rhiwlas :  Y  llew'n  ryni  llawn  o  ras  .  .  .     k 
rhwysg  Jarli  ywch  a  theiroes  gwr     16^§  , 

105  Mar:  Sianis  Phylib 

Trees  duw  vriw  dwys  trist  fv  r  dydd     ....  I 

deiroes  yr  hydd  dros  aer  hwnn  .  / 

168  The  pedigree  of  James  Philip  of  ILan  Dewi  ystrad  ynni       m 

109  jfr  Deon  Banks  o  Lanelwy 

Blaen  ffydd  ai  llywydd  gallvawl  wyt  ym     .     .     .     ,  n 

ywch  godiad  a  pharch  geidwad  y  ffydd 

173  Mol:  D^  Huws  :  Y  Gwr  lion  doeth  gwar  llawn  dysg  ...      0 
ond  Elwy  teg  del  i  ti  .  -I626  . 

177  A  note  (if  (he  amies  that  may  be  borne  by  M'  Robert  lloyd        p 

179  Mol:  Rys  llwyd  o  Lundain 

Y  Ihvyd  liael  vwch  llv  tylwyth     ....  q 
ych  oes  yn  ddwyoes  a  ddel .  / 

183  Mol:  Edw:  ffans  :  Diiw  a  rodd  Awdur  addas     ....        r 
deinioos  yn  ddegoes  a  ddel 

187  A'o/.-  Z>''  IFowk  Prys  0  Lanve^ain 

Y  Gwr  lien  bruisg  ir  llawn  brav     .     .     ,     ,  s 
Eisag  byw  varn  Esgob  vych 

101  Mar:  Lewis  Gwyn  0  Dowyn 

Diliw  fv  ddyrnod  elawr     ....  t 

enw  mawr  iawn  i  mae  r  enaid  .  16S0  . 

197   7^  Sion  ap  Edw:  Penrhyn 

Y  Gv^r  hael  sad  gwrol    sydd     ....  M 
a  chydwaed  moolyrch  Edwin  (1.  58)  || 


POEMS   BY  SION   KAIN,  713 

199  '•'■  Am  ddeugar  sydd  glaf"  Hiiw  Gwynn  Bodwrda  a  liis'rt: 

Jlnivs  :  Oer  vraw  yna  ar  vriw  ai\ial     ....  a 

diiw  nef  ai  kodo  ill  dav  ii  iach  Sion  Kain 

203  jf  Sion  Edward :  Y  Gwr  or  Warn  gore  i  ry w     ....       b 
i  chwi  hiroes  a  chariad 

207  Mol:  Tomas  Sions  o  Helygeii  ijnhegaingl 

Y  llt!W  kakl  vwch  Uv  kedyrn     ....  c 
itli  ras  el  gydath  Aer  Sion 

211  J  Syr  Rosser  Mostyn :  Y  marchog  kalonog  glan     .     .     .     .    d 
a  vo  n  y  byd  i  iyw  n  benn  .  / 

215  jf  Edw:  Thelwal  0  Lan  Tanat 

Yr  Aer  gwar  evrawg  eryr     ....  e 

y  bo  ch  wyneb  chwi  vnwaitb 

2\9  f  TViliam  vychan  Sirif  Ddinbych 

Y  Siryf  drws  arf,  a  drych     ....  f 
awchlyin  vych  Wiliam  vychan 

223  y  Syr  Rissiart  Rrys  o  Ogerddan  marchog 

Y  pennaeth  vwch  pob  bonedd     ....  g 
y  bo  dy  radd  byw  dair  oes 

227  Mol:  Robert  Salbri  o  Langollen 

Y  Hew  n  i  rym  Uawn  o  ras     ....  h 
gwres  yn  hiaith  atli  groeso  n  hir 

231    f  Vathexo  Prys :  Mae  oen  rhoddlawn  mown  rhyddlys  ...      i 
■J  roi  gwledd  vawr  Arglwydd  vych 

235  f  Syr  Sion  Bodfel :  Y  marchog  avr  helmog  hir    ...  k 

Ar  11 V  ith  61  ]arll  ith  welwyf 

239  Mol:  Mredydd  Morgans  o  Aberhavesp 

Y  Gwr  rhywiog  ar  heol     ....  I 
y  glin  ar  mwnwgl  vnwaith 

243  Mol:  Syr  Harri  Salbri,  o  Lyweni,  Barwnet 

Y  Gwr  o  stad  dann  Grist  wynn     ....  m 
barwn  ne  iarll  in  bro  ni   .  / 

247   Biol:  Morgan  ap  Rys,  "  Efrawg  dyffryn  keiriawg  '' 

Y  melwas  or  gwychblas  gwynn     ....  n 
ich  gwelvvyf  chwi  ag  Elin 

251   Mol:  Jfan  Morgan  person  JLanverres 

31.16  vn  lien  mwynllew  anial     ....  o 

y  bo  ch  wyneb  chwi  vnwaith 

255  Mol:  Tomas  Puw  o  Lwyn  tydmon  yn  ILanymynych 

Y  dewr  galawnt  avr  goler     .     .     .     [See  95  supra.'\  p 
yt  Tomas  Puw  duw  a  dal 

259  Mar:  Syr  Stains  Prys  o  Ynys  y  Maengwyn  .   l6^3  . 

Tra  dwys  yw  trawiad  Jessv    ....  q 

i  vynwes  diiw  vann  sy  deg 

263  Mol:  Wil:  Wynn  o  Lanfair  ap  John  ap  Wm;  .  I641  . 

Y  brevlew  ffyrf  berl  y  ffair     ....  r 
ach  evro  n  'Jarll  ich  rhann  el 

267  Mol:  Woioh  TLwyd  o  Henllan 

Y  iflwch  vilwr  fflvwch  velyn     .     ,    ,     ,  « 
awr  deisiav  drwy  rad  Jessv 

y  98430.  D  D 


714  PENIAKTH   MANUSCEIPT    117. 

271  Moh  Edw:  Prys  or  Drefnewydd 

O  drefi  r  byd  drwy  vawr  barch     ....  a 

glan  gjlch  gwmpas  glin  y  gwr  Sion  Kain 

275  Mol:  Syr  T.  Midlton :  Y  marchog  enwoc  aned     ,     .     .     .     b 
avr  goron  drwy  hir  gariad  .  / 

279  f  Lewis  Gicyn  o  Lan  Idlos 

Y  Hew  n  i  rym  llawn  o  ras     ...  c 
y  oes  yn  bvmoes  i  bo 

282         Davydd  mae  r  beirdd  yn  dyfod     ...  rf 

anhyfryd  byd  heb  dy  benn  .  /  Gutto  or  Glynn 

287  Mar:  Rissiart  Wynn  o  Lansilin 

Gwae  111  ni  oes  vo  gwyn  yn  iaith  glywed  kanllef  ....  c 

duw  rhodded  iw  dir  Leddyw  oesav  vil  ir  rhai  sy  £yw. 

291  fr  Deon  Banhs :  Y  proffwyd  doeth  praffwaed  da  ...  .  / 

Siagob  vodd  Esgob  vyddych 

205  /  Gr:  Tanat,ficar  llan  Sanffraid  y  mechain 

Y  Prelad  llawn  gariad  gwr     ....  g 
Tanad  hael  aed  hwnn  yt  ti 

299  7  <S'.  llwyd  o  Bywedog :  O  Aerod  vil  erioed  fv  .  .  .  .  h 

Sion  at  hap  oes  hen  ytf.  el. 
303  jf  Edw:  Owain  o  Lanwddyn 

Y  Gwr  dwysteg  gwar  distaw     ....  ■     ,i 
ai  chwe  oed  vo  i  chwi  Edwart 

307  Yr  h_Md  galond  rhwydd  galon  &c.     See  MS.  116,  p.  717.  h 

311   Mol:   Thomas  Prys  or  Ynys  grygog  .  l636 . 

Y  dewr  enaid  or  ynys     ....  / 
ennioes  hyd  yr  ynys  honn 

315  y  S.  llwyd  0  Garrog ;  Y  Glain  distaw  glan  dystod  ...  vi 

Enioes  hydd  ar  dy  benn  Sion  .  / 

319  J  Wm:  Penrhyn  :  Y  Hew  di  gag  lliw  deg  wr  .  .  .  .  n 

rhwysg  ywch  a  gras  ag  iechyd  .  / 

323  Ar  briodas  Symon  Thehval  a  nierch  Hum:  Jones 
Receavcr  Gwynedd 
llawenydd  gwnn  llawn  dda  i  gyd     ....  o 

mae  r  kwyso  i  vo.d  markwys  vj^dd 

329  Mar:  Siors  Pulstwn:  Troes  diiw  vdfa  trist  adfyd  ....         ;j 
gwedi  i  oes  ef  i  gadw  Siain   .   163S 

333  y  Byrs  TLwyd-or  -Dal  ^^dwrn  a  nerth  Edeirnion  " 

Y  dewr  haelwalch  rhylew     ....  q 
einioes  Setli  ddaionvs  iawn 

337  7  Sion  Sieffres :  Y  Gwr  ifank  arafaidd     ....  r 

y  bo  ch  wyneb  chwi  vnwaith  .  l635  . 

341  Mol:  Morys- llwyd  o  Lan  Armon 

Y  llwyd  ystig  Hew  distaw     ....  s 
hiroes  oil  ywch  morys  llwyd  ,/ 

345  jf  II.  Vychan  :  Yr  Aer  berl  ar  wyr  y  byd     ....  i 

Or  brvt  vych  Herbert  vychan  .  163^  , 

349  Yr  impren  o  ryw  emprwyr  &c.  See  MS.  116,  p.  591.  u 

3.53  f  Sion  Vychaii ;  ,Y  rhwydda  i  glod  rhoddiog  l^s  .  .  .  v 

adael  ywch  hoedl  a  iechyd  .  76^^  . 


POEMS   BY   SIGN   KAIN  AND   OTHERS.  t  1 5 

,357  Mol:  Harri  Salbri,  aer  llyweni,  ap  Syr  Sion 

HoU  Vonedd  Gwynedd  i  gyd     ....  a 

Aer  llyweni  n  ']sixl\  vnwaith  Sion  Kain 

301  J  of II n  cymod  Wil:  Wijnn  o  Lanfair  .   16^2  . 

Dyn  wyf  vi  sydd  dann  vai  Sion     ....  b 

yn  oos  dyn  eisiav  dwyneb 


365  Mar:  Jfan  ILivyd  o  Hafod  vnos. 

Cwyn  a  wyddom  cawn  weiddi     ....  c 

Aed  i  nef  Iwydwyn  jffan  Sion  Tvdvr 

369  Mur:  Rissiart  ap  Howel  ap  Morgan  o  Alrhey  . 

Wylo  r  wyfF  ail  yr  avon     ....  d 

ni  vevroes  nef  i  Risiard  *Heio  ap  Davydd 

373  3Iar:   Gras  gwraig  Edmwnt  meirig  or  garth  limjd  .   l62g  . 
Alar  pail'  lawer  oi  pwyll     ....  e 

gras  diav  fercli  i  grisd  fydd  *Rich:  Philip 

377  Mol:  Elysdan  Owen  o  riic  j  r  /  saeson  .  1630  . 

Dyn  sy  had  downvs  1  elynt     ....  f 

Owens  irwynn/oes  er^r  *      „  „ 

381   3Iar:  Doriti  gicraig  syr  Wiliam  Wiliams 

Doe  idd  oedd  vcliod  ddydd  achwyn     ....  g 

kors    .   .   .   .    y  gedol  fercli  ior  gwaewdvvii     t  "^o  signature. 

385    Yn  erbyn  Cyrowsio  :  gwae  /  r  /  hen  wr  agae  hir  einioes  .  .   .    h 
syda  ni  na  ddigied  neb  *Sion  phylip 

389  3Iar:  Sion  Nannav  ail  mab  Gr:  Nannav  .  1632  . 

lihwygwj^d  Brig  rhywiowgwaed  brav     ....  i 

yn  y  ne  aion  nannav  sydd  *  Richard  phylip 

S93  Mar:  Dafydd  llwyd  ab  if  an  o  aber  maed 

ILcf  oer  sydd  /  llafiir  a  son     ....  k 

Duw  a  ranno/da  ir  enaid/  *         „  ,, 

397  Blar:   Risiart  ffans  o  lann  ael  havarn 

Oer  yw  gwlad  farw  i  glewdwr     ....  / 

Dilw  ivv  vnferch  /  rhoed  wnnfyd^:  Richard  Philip 

401   f  Edmwnt  Meirig  Siri  givych  Sir  feirion  .  l632  . 

Sir  feiiion  sy'  ar  fowredd     ....  m 

aed  mewu  oed  hir  Edmwnt  haelj  ,,         „ 

405  3Iol:   PVmffre  Sions  or  peimrhyn  resever  y  brenin  .   l633  . 

Rhodd  dduw  fal  y  rhwydd  awel     ....  u 

rhoed  vwch  sions,  hiroed  ich  swyddf  ,,  „ 

409  3Iol:  Syr  Rissiart  aer  S.  "  dwrn  aurddewr  draiD  n  .  y 

tcirddon"  :  Y  raarc[hog  aur]dorchog  dewr     ...  o 

yn  yell  rhann  ywch  hir  einioes  Rys  Cain 

419  Pyrs  llwyd:  T  dewr  chwyrn  nid  eiriach  avr     ....        p 
barwu  chwyrn  brev  'n  yeh  oes 
bo  ch  [#******  #  ]J  *Bys  Kain 

*  Autograph  poems. 

f  ?  unfiQished.     Same  hand  as  the  two  previous  poems. 

X  Text  imperfect. 

D  D   2 


716  rENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    117. 

423  MoU  liadwaladr  .  .  ap  Hiiw  .  .   Owain  *'  c/wyddost 
ystor  hardd  o  stwiae  hen  " 
*  *  *  f  Hew  gwar  »  *  *  *  ^ 

piir  grist  ....  pared  ytt  hap  a  hiroes  Ryt   Cain 

425  Mol:  Bissiart  llwyd  o  Aber  Tanad  .  1601  . 

Y  gvvrda  penn  gwyrda  pur     ....  ^ 

tair  oes  gann  ddiivv  yt  Rissiart  Bys  Kain 

431   Mol:  Elis  Edicart:  Yr  liaelt'ab  mewn  rheiolfyd  ....  c 

kliid  o  gerdd  klod  ac  vrddas  .  l6oS  .  llys  Cain 

435  y  Mathew   Herbert,  S.  llwyd  o  Geisswyn,  a  Rolant 
Puiv  o  ddol  y  horslwyn 
Pwy  n  kynnal  holl  ardal  llawn     ....  d 

a  channoes  ytt  a  chann  swydd  .  iCog  Ry$  Kain 

439  Mar:  Seina  merch  Tomas  ap  Reinallt  o  Loran  .  I6l1 

Troes  diiw  a  nef  trist  yw'n  iaith     ....  e 

gwrs  hir  a  gras  iw  hwyrion  Rys  Cain 

443   [*  *  #  Jessv  penn  kymrv  i  kaf     ....  f 

Hari  wych  hirwayw  vchel  ....  Salbri     .     .     . 
Sele  ifank  sy  lewfawr  (1.  72)  || 

445  J  S.  llwyd  0  L.  vair :  Y  dewr  nith  ddeil  dur  na  than  ...     ^ 

dyrd  yn  larll  dowr  a  dyn  wyd  .    1604  .  Rys  Kain 

449  3Iar:    Gr:  ap  Jevan  ap  Siankin 

Y  Glain  binagl  naw  bonedd     ....  h 
dros  ych  wyr  dair  oes  ich  ol                              no  signature 

451  jf  S.  Evtyn  o  Goed  y  llai 

Y  Gwr  o  stad  dann  Grist  wynn     ....  i 
wr  glewaidd  vodd  Arglwydd  vych                          Sion  Kain 

455  J  Gr:  Puiu :  Y  Glain  dof  vwch  glann   dyfi     ....  k 

o  daw  r  twrn  yn  dy  raid  di  „         „ 

459  Mol:  Jevan  llwyd  " gloyw  ner  glynn  Aeron" 

Kostes  kvn  barddles  beirddlith     ....  I 

llawen  vo  i  iechyd  hydd  hoedl  didrai  Heilin  vardd 

461  Mol:  Tomas:  Y  Hew  dof  garllaw  dyfi     ....  nt 

traglan  walch  ti  yw  r  glain  nod  f^Dd:  Nanmjor 

Kywybev  Sion  Kain 

463  Mol:  Rolant  Owain :  Powys  aeth  ai  pwys  weithian  ....      n 
ir  ty  yma  ich  aer  Tomas  Sion  Kain 

467  jf  Roland  Puw :  jfarll  vo  in  gwlad  evrllafu  glwys  ...  o 

vyth  hefyd  o  vathafarn  „         „ 

471  7  S.  Vychan  :  Yr  hydd  dilwfr  rhwydd  deilwng  ....  p 

iw  gloi  n  gylch  am  ych  glin  gwyn 

475  J  Vathew  Prys :  Y  Gwreiddfab  gw&r  addfwyn  ....  q 

a  vo  n  d'61  i  vyw  n  deilwng 

479  f  Wm:  Robins  :  Y  karw  ifank  arafaidd     ....  r 

evrllwyth  hael  Jarll  ith  welwyf 

483  Jr  Dref  Newydd :  Pwy  sydd  ir  dref  neAvydd  naf  ....  «■ 

Edward  ....  Prys  yn  -farll  pair  ]fessv  nef . 

f  This  Kywydd  wants  aliout  12  lines  at  the  beginning. 


POEMS  BY  SIGN   KAIN  AND   OTHERS.  71 7 

487  J  Rolant  Puiv :  Y  pennaeth  lew  penn  wythwlad  ....  « 

chwi  a  Gwenn  vyw  chwevgeinoes  .  162O  .        Sion  Kaiii 

491  ^  Mred:  Morgan :  Duw  a  rodd  awdvr  addas     ....         l> 
deinioes  yn  ddegoes  a  ddel 

495  /  D''  Dafis  Malhvyd :  Y  gvvr  lien  doetli  gwitr  llawn  da  .   .    c 
Siagob  eiiw  n  Esgob  vnwaith 

499  f  Lewys  Gwi/nn  JL.  Idlos :  Y  Hew  n  i  rym  llawn  o  ras  .  .     d 

dy  oes  yn  bvraoes  i  bo 
501   Dafydd  mae  r  beirdd  yn  dyfod  &c.         impnrfeet.    See  p.  280  above.  e 

503  f  Syr  Rissiart  Prys  :  Y  marchog  avr  helinoc  hir     ...      ./' 

mark  sy  fwy  yt  markwys  vych  .  / 

505  j^  A.  Prys  aery  Vaenor :  Y  gwr  o  stad  goro  i  stor  ....     g 
glan  werth  am  yeh  gltn  Arthvr  .  / 

509  /  S.  Vychan  :  Y  Siryf  fry  ffres  avr  vronn     ....  h 

am  rywl  wycli  dyma  r  ail  waith     (1-  56)|| 

511  jf  Syr  H.  Salbri  0  Lyiueni 

Marcbog  gwayw  evrog  gwrol  s#  *  *     .     .     .     .  i 

rym  mwy  orchest  or  marchog  .  /  l62§ 

517  jf  Ris't  Sions  o  Evarth  :  Y  glain  glan  galon  ai  glod     .     .     .  k 
tair  oes  gan  dduw  yt  llissiatt 

-519  Mar:  Rissiart  aer  Huw :  Aetb  alaeth  o  waith  elawr  ...  I 

i  law  uaf  hael  o  nefoedd  .  / 

-523  f  Wmjfrai  Sions :  Y  Gwr  o  stad  gore  i  stor     ....         m 
deinioes  yr  deiroes  i  del 

■527  Mar:  Givenn  Vychan  gwraig  Huw  ap  Win:  Tudur  0  Egrin 

Nid  yw  oes  dyn  naid  i  stad     ....  n 

Angav  diav  n  y  diwedd 

A  gyrch  bawb  mewn  gwarchae  bedd     .... 

wedi  Gwenn  kadwed  i  gwr. 

631  J  Sion  o  Riioedog 

Brig  bouedd  Gwynedd  gv  enwawc  wyd  Sion     .     .     .     .     0 

ag  o  beun  brig  y  bonedd*  .   l6!f3  . 

537-42  A  repetition  of  the  text  of  pages  531-6. 
543  Mol:  D'  S.  Dafis,  o  Vallwyd 

Kanaf  vawl  perawl  pvrwyd  ddiwagtaith     ....  p 

akw  n  voes  i  kaiiaf  vawl  .  /  '/6.^J 

549-54  A  repetition  of  the  text  of  pages  543-8. 
555       Trom  yw  oer  och  tramawr  wedd  &c.     See  MS.  11 6,  p.  849.     q 

559  Fragments. 

560  Fragments  :  Mar :  Sion  Thomas  hoetref: 

Oer  benyd  ar  wyr  b*  *  *  *  &c.  r 

ii.  Mar:  S.  Thos:  o  Gynllaith  : 

*****  th  tros  Iv  mawr  &c.  ■« 

561"      l|Er  i  varw  Syr  oer  viiw  sydd     ....  t 

Syr   Wm:  .   .   .  .  oi  vlaen  i  nef  lawenydd. 
563  A  fragment  ending  :  yngolwg  yr  yngylion  « 

565  A  fragment  of  an  elegy  to  Sion buried  "  yngro  Silin" 

it  ends :  i  law  duw  aeth  le  da  [iawn]     .  1591/..     Rys  Kain  v 


718  PENIiETH   MANUSCRIPT    J 18. 

MS.  118  =  Hon.  518.  The  Book  of  Dr.  John  David  Rhys  con- 
taining copies  (from  the  Red  Booh  of  Ffergest)  of  Geoffrey's  Historia, 
BowN  of  Hampton  and  tlie  Poetry  ;  also  a  considerable  part  of  the 
Book  of  the  Anchorite  of  ILtm  Dewi  Vrevi,  and  of  the  Welsh  Laws, 
six  Glossaries,  a  letter  &c.  by  W.  Middleton,  Pedigrees,  llhandir 
Powys,  pn  account  of  the  Giants  of  Wales  and  their  C.'aereu,  &c. 
Paper;  12|  x  8  inches;  03G  pages;  in  several  hands  of  the  last  quarter 
of  the  xvith  century  ;  bound  in  morocco. 

Pages  7-177,  363-55P,  581-695,  711-864,  904-11  and  all  the 
Glossaries  are  in  the  autograph  of  the  grammarian  Dr.  John  David 
Ehys;  pages  561-79,  697-708  are  also  probably  in  his  hand,  and  pages- 
197-281,  301-42  were  inferentially  copied  under  his  direction  as  they 
help  to  complete  the  copy  of  the  poetry  in  the  Red  Booh,  and  have 
marginalia  in  his  hand.  Pages  293-7  are  in  the  autograph  of 
W.  Middleton  (1582).  Pages  348-60  are  in  another  hiind.  The 
autograph  of  Dr.  Zohn  l)a«»es  of  Mallwyd  is  found  on  pages  51  and 
235  as  well  as  numerous  marginalia ;  Robert  Vaiighan  also  wrote  in 
the  margins  (pp.  51  and  340).  "  Thomas  Morgan  is  y^  true  owner  of 
this  Bcoke  record  of  Thomas  Bulcot  and  maney  more  of  y"  ancient 
and  well  governed  Corporacion  of  Brecon  1C38  ;  "  also  "  Tho:  Bulcott, 
Kees  Jones,  Herbert  Anthony,  Phillip  Lewis,  Eo:  Thomas  Bishopp  of 
Brecon  &  Destroyer  of  the  College  lVIayl7,  1656"  (p.  191).  Many 
other  names  occur  such  as  H.  Hanlye  (377),  Jenkin  and  John  Price  1656 
(77  and  165),  Thomas  AVatkins  and  John  Herbert  (70S)  John  Jones 
(350),  and  the  following  five  names  recur  every  other  margin  on  pages 
731-864  :— E.  W[illiams] /Lewis  Hughes,  cleriatjt  /  Walter  Dd:,  clerk/ 
lloger  Roberts,  clerk  /  and  Kich:  T. 

1       Y  gigf#  *#*#«****«* 

#***«#**  to'r  ddydd  hwnn         !■  70  a 

#  *  *  *  TLoyd  ap  JL'n  ap  gr: 

3  Kaerlleon  a  phregethwyr  ^werddon  #**#*,     .     .     .    b 
ILyma'r  Owain  penna:  llyma'r  mor  ynygored  *  =*  *  # 

anhigara  Rys  vardd 

4  A  fragment  ending :  digyfraith  y  dwedaf  y  daw  c 

Ownin  migain  Taliessin 

h.  A  fragment  eliding  :  nis  ail  goroni  Henry  ri  rifeloedd      R.  V.  d 

c.  *##**#*     ran  wrth  gaire  rhaglan     ....  e 
*****  kerddodd,  gwaer  byd  hyd  yr  yn  dydd 

d.  #»»##»*»  vr  yn  wir  o  dir  (\ev/i  &c.   &c.  f 

5  ILafu  :*******  ary  grydd     ....  g 
Adrydd  rhwng  Hatren  ag=wy  fwy  fwy  nyfer  .... 

a  6  pedair  blyuedd  #*»****    |    dyai  y  dwanl. 
rage  6  is  blank,  and  ten  leaves  are  cut  out  between  pages  6  and  7. 
7  Pedigrees;  Owein  the  sonne  of  Maredudh  &c.   &c.  James  sonne 
of  Henry  and  Mary  Stuart  &c.  &c.  imperfect. 

11       Dyma  Ley  son  #*»#*********■     •     •     •  ^ 

Ar  y  pennvlh  huna  yn  aw  y  diuedhun,  a  thanv 

ytt  y  #  *  *  #  * 
ai?nai?n  ni  belhach  rhag  dy  drablinav 

13       Yr   asen    a    dhyl,  bhy  ghuir   am?yl,  ytt  o  bhaur  haedhyad  i 
tragy-sydhaul  brydyad  yn  Ihabhvrgar     .... 
O   gorph  rin-sedhev  maur  i  chynnydh,  o  rimyedliev  medhiyl 
cybhla-sn  rhydh,  a  rhyw  iavn  idhi  hynny. 


THE   BOOK    OF   DK:   JOHN   DAVJD   WHYS. 


719 


14       Megis  at  bliynydh  Hybla  per  o  blilodevoedd  y  niae'r  « 

g'senyn  di'syd  nibheroedh  yn  dhiorphisys     .... 
Eithr  darlliain  yn  diriongar  bhy  auenydhai?!  brydyad  can 
ma's!"  ytb  gar  honn  sydh  bhodhlon  gennyt  ei  chydgydbhod 

10   Gvaiih  castelli  Dyn-^yd  ui  ardh 

Stradligh  bharcha^g  cymer  gvr  i  adeilad  dy  gastelh  b 

ai  vcbel  bhvr  canys  teil^gh  yu  yt  bynny     .... 
Nog  y  derbbydh  i  mi  dhatcan  Lolb  bholyaiinev  dy 
deg  berlhan  y  Stradligb  bharcha'sc  evraid 
19       Leyson  '  sy  'n  danbhon  o  Eyd  ychen  anhcrcbyon  a  c 

bbei  ^elh  gautv[nt]  ev  d'syn  ehvnan     .... 
sy  'n  bhai?r  y  cbynnydh  o  rinijedhev  corph  ag  yn 
bha'sr  y  chynnydh  o  riu'sedhev  medh-sl. 
22       Megis  y  bydh  y  -senbynon  dhi'syd  yn  gwnevthvr  egni  tr-sy      d 
dbybhal  gvi-  i  bbynecli  hedbban  i  bbynydb  Hybla  &c.  .  . 
nog  y  galb-sybb,  Stradligh  bharchog,  dhatcan  holh 
bholyanne  dy  'ardh 
26-8  Fragmentary  and  mostly  blank. 
29       ||Dydh^yu  dyn  at  dbv8  yn  vnueith  &c.  e 

The  poetry  on  pages  19-175, 1.  20,  197-282,  1.  3,  seems  tobe  a  direct 
<opy,  in  a  modernised  orthography,  of  columns  1052-56,  577-88,  1159- 
G4,  1153,  1158-59,  1186-1219,  1230-31,  1313-23,  1324-29,  J330-36, 
1281,  1287-88, 1282,  &;  1288,  6-91,  1249-53,  1284, 1233-48,  1259-63, 
1401-05,  1221-23,  1225,  6-28,  1229,  6-30,  1253-57,  1264-80,  1291- 
96,  1298-1310,  1297,  1337-56, 1358,  c?,  1362-96,  1405-08,  and  1419-25 
of  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest. 

175,  1.  21.     "  Seint  greal  36  and  forward  " 
esmuyth  bhv  idba-s  yno.  vn  a  gybharbhv  ag  ef  yn  myned  yno, 

yngbylch  yr  alla-sr  yr  oedh  celh  wedyr  ijnevthvr  o  ruylhev  heyrn  -yedyr 
ossot  groes  yngroes  .  a  thv  ac  yno  y  doeth  ef  megys  y  niynudi  ■sarandav 
opheren  .  gostyDaudh  ar  dal  y  linyev  or  tv  bhaes  yr  dr-b-s  .  edrychairdd  y 

myT?n   dr'sy  y  r'sylhev  .  guely  teg ends :  bv  yno  tra  bhv 

dhydh  yn  disgTsyl  ae  Ihong  ae  bat  yn  cerdhet  ar  y  mor  .  dyrchabhel  y 
dh'sylaif  parth  ar  nebh. 

177*  A  Glossary  to  Bishop  Morgan's  version  of  the  Book  of 
Proverbs  and  Ecclesiastes  chapters  I.  and  II. 

Mervail  not  though  diuerse  wordes 
Cap.  I.  Denu  .  i .  to  iutise  be    often     iterated,    nor    mervail 

Cyttunau.  i  .  to  consent  though   some   wordes    be    not    in 

ChTfanna^C  .  i .  greedie  ^"*'^1^  answerable  to  English  for 

„   ,    -      .  °        .  ,  ,  my  mynd  IS  not  layd  down,  but  the 

Golud  .  t .  gayne  or  riches  .  .  .  ends  :     ^^^^  ^f  ^^  ^^^^^  ;^  his  translation.. 

Seibiant  .  «  .   rest  ....  who  some  tyme  .  followeth  one  kind 

Tyrru   .  i  .  to  gather||  of  translation  and  some  other  tyma; 

other  kynd  of  translation. 

293  An  Awdyl  with  an  analysis  of  its  argument 

Crist  o  nef  ;  cerais  dy  nod.    ....  f 

uef  wenn  o  mynni  nai'  yw  naravniad  uiXXix/a.  MiieX-cov 

297  Annerch  a  chariat    a  mynych   orchymyn   atawch    yr   anwyl 
athrawf  ac  at  awch   Cywely.     Dir  yAvch  faddav  ymy  fy   mot  mor 

*  This  glossary  is  written  on  blank  pages  and  half  pages  left  here  and  there  in 
the  MS.  See  pp.  177  (1.  16)-196,  283  (1.  5)-292,  294  (11.  25-32),  29G  (,11.  25-32), 
297  (1.  27)-299,  300  (U.  24-29),  343-47. 

t  This  letter  is  addressed  To  the  worshipfuU  and  his  very  loving  frend  Doctor 
Davies  at  Cardiff,  i.e.,  Dr.  John  Dd:  Ehys.  Pages  292-7  are  in  the  autograph  of 
Wm:  Middleton. 


720  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT    I  18. 

ddiddarbot  nat  yscrivennwn  attawch  cyno  hynn  Bithyspys  gennycli 
nat  o  ddiffyc  ewyllys  da  ich  yskevlvsais  liofE  iawn  y\v  gennyf  a  glywais 
o  newyddyon  y  gan  M"^  Babington  sef  i  chwi  gyfieithv  yn  gymroaidd 
y  dafulan  ferr  o  grefydd  Christ  a  wnaethai  ef  y  saesoneg  .  Pendefic 
ywr  vicar  am  ddyscv  iddaw  ddywedyd  cymraeg  hynny  oedd  reit  ymmy 
pettwa  ynghaerdydd,  dywedwch  wrtli  y  viccar  y  gwnaf  gymeint 
drostaw  yntev  os  daw  ar  fy  Haw  .  Gofynnasoch  ym  pan  oeddwn 
ynghaerdydd  (raeis  y  clywsech  ereill)  ae  i  briodi  M"  watkins  y 
doethwn  llvrw  fynghcfyn  ni  feiddiwn  atteb  ywch  y  pryt  hynny  rac 
fy  anwadalet  eithyr  ynawr  y  beiddiaf  ddywedyd  ywch  ag  y  gwnn  y 
sieir  naf  hynny  ydoedd  fy  mryt,  newyddyon  nyt  oes  gennyf  onyt 
ysgyfarji  yn  iaith  gernyw  yw  clust  yn  iaith  ninav  bvch  kyhyt  y  chyrn 
ae  hysgyfarn  y[s]gatfydd  oddyna  y  daeth  tarw  gwyn  ysgyfarllynnig 
ag  ysgyfarnoc  clustiog  am  fod  iddi  glvstev  hirion  .  fo  fydd  gennyf 
drwy  gennat  dvw  y  tonyddiaeth  yn  berffeith  erbyn  ych  gwelwyf  nesaf 
yddwyf  yn  gobeithiaw  y  bydd  gennych  ithev  rvw  rann  or  gramadec 
gwedy  y  gwplav.  Ewch  yn  iach  gedweh  glywet  oddiwrthych,  a 
hoffwch  bawb  a  ofno  Dvw 

Wilton  y  cyntaf  0  chwefror  15§2  yr  eiddoch  W.  Mydleton. 

300.  Two  paragraphs  iu  Latin  enjoining  Wm:  ap  Howell,  Dd: 
ap  Dd:  ap  Morgan,  and  Tho  :  Vaughan  to  hold  their  agreement  with 
John  David  Doctor  of  medicine  concerning  a  dwelhng  house,  a  barn 
and  two  gardens  "  in  burgo  Brecon." 

301-42.  A  copy  of  a  portion  of  the  Historia  Regum  Britannia 
taken  from  the  Red  Book  of  Hergest*  cols.  31-87,  1.  7.    Bryttaen 

orev  or  ynyssed  yr  hon  a  elwit  gynt  y  wen  ynys ends  : 

Ac  anvon  aorvc  hyt  at  elevthreius  vab  yerchi  i[dd]aw  anvon  attaw 
wyr  kyflawn  o  gret  a  fPydd — left  unfinished. 


Pages  348-60  are  in  a  later  hand,  probably  in  the  autograph  of  Jeuan  ap 
Hhys  :  the  MS.  was  turned  upside  down  and  the  writing  begun  on  p.;360. 

360       Kanaf  ddytawl  vawi  vilioedd  wir  air  glod     ....  t 

gwir  gawn  vedd  vab  y  gwiry  vair 

b.         gwirionedd  pyr  wedd  syn  para  dros  byth     ....  > 

gelyn  y  ddwetto  gelwydd  Jefan  ap  jirys 

359       Dyw  goray  boray  byrwydd  wyd  kyfion     .... 

na  fyw  drwys  byd  nef  dros  ben  Jevan 

357       Yno  pyn  delo  poen  dilys  angay     ....  i 

gyryaidd  vy  weddaidd  was  Jevan  ap  pris 

355       gobitho  tristio  ddyn  trvstan  y  ddwyf    .... 

tragywydd  mawrwydd  y  may  fejan  ap  pris 

354       Kenel  kyfeillon  kyn  kynen  gofyd     .... 
gwaith  pob  neb  salwineb  son 

352       tri  fEwint  y  diwiol  tra  hoffion  kyfrwys     .... 

at  yn  ond  yn  igain  teg  Jevan  ap  Rees 

351       Hai  bromhwt  ters  hers  hai  wyr  day  wyneb     .... 
gwrs  enbaid  lligiaid  a  Hen 

348       ar  ythnaeth  wir  firaeth  en  ffrwytho  dinnam     .... 

y  ddyly  o  glasgy  glod  Jefan  ap  Rees 


*  See  B7-uts,  pp.  40-100,  1.14.    One  folio  is  missing  between  pp.  334  and  335 
(=Bruts,  p.  75,  1.  6-77, 1.  24). 


THE  BOOK   OF  DE:  JOHN   DAVID   RHYS. 


721 


362  A  medical  recipe,  and  what  appears  to  te   a  continuation  of  the  Glossary 
from  p.  347.     This  page  was  once  the  last  of  the  MS.  and  is  much  stained. 

363-458.  A   Glossary  to   William  Salesbvry's  version   of  the 
Gospels  of  Matthew,  Mark,  and  Luke,  chapters  i-xiv  .  1561  ■ 
Cenedleth,  ach,  iach  .  t  .  general!  o,  progenies     .... 
dyisedhio  .  j .  desponsare,  sponsions  promittere    .  .  .  ends 
cuynos/  sisper     .... 
Clybod/  g^rando  L"o  15' || 

459-501.  A  Glossary  arranged  alphabetically 
Aclive     ^  wold  haue  said  (correctio  siag) 
Achre  g'sisc 

(creth  .  i .  patientia  frigoris  .  gur  da  i  greth) 
Achreth  .  i .  shevering  /  myn  Machreth  achreth  echrys 

i  gylch  yghrhoen  gi?lycliv  'ghrhys     .... 
Echrysaint  quasi  echrys  haint  .  adifyth  ifrth  gyscv 

alhan  nev'r  cyphelyb 
Ada  .  J .  Iha-s  .  bai  da  bob  ada  bedydh  y  g^elht  yn 

binnav  ar  gvydh     ....  ends : 

Yortbryn  .  i .  ystigi?ydh 
yr(d)ang  .  t .  ofn 

602-06,1.  5.  Another  Glossary:  Arbhogaeih  .i.  Armntura    . 
ends  :  Goglyd  .  i .  trust,  confidence. 

506,  1.  6-524. t  Illustrative  material  for  a  Glossary  of  the 
Laws  of  Howel  following  the  sequence  of  the  text  withont  reference 
to  the  order  of  the  alphabet 

Arbher  Arbher  o  'r  cybrevthev         p.  1. 

Sarbaed  ys  cam  arbherv  oe  ■sreig  .3 ends  : 

Ihydh  medhyg  a  dhyly  myned  yr  Ibvydhev  .  22  .  || 

525-58  Illustrative  material  for  a  Glossary  of  the  Laws  ending 
with  a  considerable  portion  of  the  text 

Thri  scor  and  six  folia  in  Howel  da  his  law  a  hook  of  Mr.  William  midelton  in 
parchment  ancient  written  vnde  hac  selecta 

Dyr-^est  dyruest  a  guedi  .  tn?y  rat  dvs  dyrsest  a  guedhi 

Cymry    yuy    therbbyn  .  i  .  cymry  olh ends  :  a  bet    idha's 

ceitiseit  cybbreithavl   ar  bhot  yn  isir  a  dhyueit :  a  dogyn  yu   idhau 
hynny  arisassabh  .  i  .  guarant  .  / 

Vulgo  :  Hsi-dh,  cyhljrdh,  cybhhT?rdh  /  hyrdhv  y  la-s  ymhop  peth  /  hyrdhv 
y  ben  ymhob  ty  /  ymhyrdhv  pa-jb  ae  gilydh  /  mae  'n  dybhod  yn  vn  h-jrdh  / 
hUrdh  o  dhyn  &c.     hijrdh  yu  brath  / 

Xhval,  cwlm  ar  ddevdroed  vlaen  anifail,  anglice  pastons 

Xlleffether,  shakelles  made  of  wood 

Xbvrwy,  cwlm  a  [m]  wddwf  anifail  ag  am  y  troed  blaen 

%troedoc,  clymy  y  troed  ol  yn  dynn  wrth  didfa 

Xcloffrwym,  cwlm  am  y  garr  ol  i  Iwdn  dafad  rag  neid  caeav 

ayerdh  .  i  .  hebhyt  .  i  .  quoque  .  §  Dyn  crybh  dilachor  . 

J  mae  r  dyn  clabh  yn  cad's  arno  yn  dhilachor  .  i  .  yn  leis  . 

559  Adhynv  mab  cijas  matganet  y  bhronget     ....  a 
presswyl  gynhi  .  cimribh  trinet  .  vndanc                  Talyesin 

560  Pedeir  Ssydh  Cymry  .-  Dwyrein  Ssydh  .•  Dimbech, 
Phlint,  Trebh  aldsyn  SfC. 

*  The  gathering  of  96  pages  ends  here. 

t  Twelve  folios  hare  been  cut  out  after  p.  524. 

J  In  a  different  hand  but  in  the  same  brownish  ink. 

§  In  a  hand  still  different  in  black  ink. 


722  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   118. 

561  Fedibrees  :  Am  achev  Sem  a  Cham  edry cinch  ijn  y 
Biblioedh  sacredic  canys  yn  y  bhan  yma  ny  sonyir,  onid  o  Jauan 
hyncidh  y  Brntanieid  yn  beniiabh.  Then  follows  a  Table  or  a 
series  of  Tables  giving  the  descent  from  Noe  through  Japhet,  ^fauan, 
&c.  down  to  Brutus  &c.,  ending  with  Queen  Elizabeth.  Then 
follows  (pp.  582-93)  an  elaborate  pedigree  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
traced  backward  to  the  early  Tudors  and  other  Welsh  princes.  On 
pp.  580-81  there  is  a  "  ijuria  lectio  .  Bonhed  Henri  .  7  ." 

593  Sr  Ehys  ap  Thomas  ap  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  ap  Philip  &c. 

b.   Glan  Giey  :  S'^  Ros.ser  Bhychan  ap  S""  'S'ilim  Bhychan  &c. 

594  ^euan  ap  Gl'm  Bhychan  ap  ^eu:  ap  Gl'm  ap  IL'n  &c. 

b.  John  Mathev  Goch  ap  Tlio:  ap  Marget  bherch  ^eu:  ap  Ow:  &c. 

595  ILyma  bvmp  Tysyssocl-^yth  Cymry :  (1)  Gr:  ap  Kynan  &c. 

597  Another  series  of  pedigrees  showing  how  Queen  EKzabeth  is 
descended  from  Cadwaladr  Bhendigeid,  Coel  Godeboc,  Howel  Dha, 
King  John,  Prince  ILywelyn,  and  Edward  the  Confessor. 

601  Plant  liO'sarch  hen,  Caw  o  Brydein,  Don  ap  Coii'Sy,  Vrien 
Bheged,  Cynbharch,  Cenav  ap  C.  Godeboc,  Gori?st,  Meirchion, 
Jdno,  Cled'syn,  a  Brychan  Brycheinoe  . 

604  Achoedh  a  bonedh  Saint  ynys  Prydein  :    De'si  bhab  Saghc 

ap  Cedic  ap  Cyredic  &c e?ids  :  Drenydh   ap  Ossa  Gylh- 

elhbhaifr  bhrenhin  Ihoegr,  y  g-sr  a  ymladhaudh  ac  Arthvr  yghifaith  , 
Bhadhon. 

60G  Abad  Morgan  ap  G^ilim  ap  Thomas  ap  Bledhyn  &c. 

607  Rhaniad  Powys :  Cyntabh  o  etibhedhion  Broch-sel  yscithroc 
a  bhedhiannodh  argl-sydhiaeth  Powys,  bhv  Bledhyn  ap  Cynbhyn  . 
ac  ebh  a  briodes  Haer  bherch  Gylhin  ap  y  Blaidh  Ehvdh  or  Gest  . 
Ac  vdh\Tit  y  bv  bhab  a    elisid    Maredudh  .  A'  huuni?    oedh  argl:-- 

holh  Bo-sys ends:    Sion   argl:   Poifys  ap  Eichart  ap    Hani 

ap    Sian 'bherch   Edwart   ap   John   drydydh  .  .  .  ap   Bledhyn   ap 
Cynbhyn. 

611  Sir  Gr:  Rys  ap  Sir  Eys  ap  Thomas  ap  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  &c. 

612  Tudur  np  Gron^yapTud:  apGron:  ap  Ednybhed  Bhychan  &c. 

b.  W.  Herbert  ap  Sir  W.  H.  ap  Sir  Eich;  H.  ap  Sir  W.  Thomas&c. 

613  Morys  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  Gr: 

6.   Sicncin  Caervc  ap  Dd:  Tabliarn  ap  dd:  Ihuyd  &c. 

c.  Hoifel  Cethin  ap  Mred:  ap  Ho:  ap  Ehys  &c. 

614  Ednybhed  Bhychan  ap  Cynbhric  ap  Jer:  ap  G-»gan  &c. 

615  GseMyth  Arbhon  :  Cybhnerth  Bhychan  ap  Cybhnerth  ap 
Morgenev  syx  Cilinin  droetv.  Then  follow  the  briefest  reference  to 
the  JLwytheu  and  Gwehelyth  of  North  Wales. 

616  M''  Gr:  bhab  M''  Rhys  bhab  S''  Gr:  ap  S'  Rys  ap  Thomas  &c. 
b.  Plant  yr  Arg:  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Eys  ap  Te'sdeijr  mawr  &c. 

617  Gr:  ap  dd:  ap  dd:  ap  Phylip  ap  Hoisel  &c. 

b.  Oi?ein  ap  John  ap  Mred:  ap  Jollo  ap  Gl'm  &c.    ■  :..■'. 

c.  Dd:  ap  Ho:  ap  Ih'n  Dv  ap  dd:  ap  ^feu:  Bhychan  &c. 

d.  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  5eu:Blaenav  ap  Gr:  ap  Lh'n  Bhychan  &c. 

618  Morys  ap  Gr:  ap  Tudur  ap  Jeu:  ap  Griphri  &c. 

b.  Ho:  ap  5eu:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr.-  Lhryd  ap  dd:  ap  Ho:  Dhv  &c. 


THE   BOOK    OF   DR:   JOHN   DAVID    JIHYS.  72S 

619  S''  Win:  Gr:  ap  Sr  Wui:  Gr:  ap  vilim  Siambrleu  hen  &c. 

h.  S""  Rys  ap  Tho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  ap  Phil:  ap  Elidir  Dhv  &c. 

c.  Ensev  pymp  Ihys  Tho:  ap  Bic:  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  Bhijchan . 
(1)  Lhys  Peii  Guei-n  yglihymud  Nan  Hevdify  a  bhv  eidhia's  Adhabh 
ap  for:  Dhv  ac  Elsbeth  bherch  Gr:  Bhychan  ap  (^r:  or  Khvdhalht 
chT?aer  Ouein  Glyh  Dybhrdisy  &c.,  (2)  Trebh  Castelh  yrn  Mon  &c., 
(S)  Mostyn  yn  Nhegeighl  &c.,  (4)  Trebh  Garnedh  ym  Mon  yghhym- 
Tsd  Menei,  a  Threbh  y  Nant  Bychan  yghhymud  T^r  Celyn  &c., 
(5)  Clodhiaith  o  bhyisn  Cymud  y  Crevdhyn  a  bhv  cidhia's  Marged 
bherch  Gr:  ap  Ehys  ap  Gr:  ap  Madai?c  Clodhiaith  mam  Eicli:  ap 
Ho:  ap  J.  Bhychan  a  Harri  Goch  o  Salbri  ap  Harri  ap  Tho:  Hen. 

620  Phybh  Ihann  Phynhosnsen  o  Svi/dh  Amsi/thic :  Ehichard 
Ihwyd  ap  Olibher  Ih-syd  ap  dd:  Ihvyd  Bhychan  &c. 

625-72  Illustrative  phrases,  and  Extracts  of  various  lengths 
all  taken  from  ILijvyr  Aghyr  JLandewivrevi*  (=Jesus  College 
MS.  2=cxix).  It  would  appear  that  this  material  and  what  follows 
below  was  designed  for  a  Dictionary.  The  meaning  of  words  is 
often  given,  sometimes  in  Latin  and  sometimes  in  English. 

673-91  Similar  Extracts  from  the  Story  of  Adam  and  Eve,  the 
Gospel  of  Nicodemus,  the  Story  of  the  Crucifixion,  of  Pontius 
Pilate,  of  Judas,  and  of  the  Blessed  Virgin,  &c.;  also  a  brief 
collection  of  Proverbs  (p.  684). 

691  ^CMnhir:  Ho-sel  -palter  leuys  a  brynodh  y  clun  hir  er  ys 
pymthec  blynedh  gaui  Tho:  Lewys  ap  Meredydh  o  Lah  bhaes,  &c.  &c. 

692  Adeilieid  [sic]  tir  Modrudh :  Meredith,  Dabhydh,  IMorgan  ab 
Oisein  Morgan,  tri  broder  Master  Doctor  Dauys  [i.e.  D''  John  Dd: 
Ehys]  &c.  &c.     Nyd  oes  dim  tolh  yn  Aberhondhu  arr  -syr  Modrydh 

b.  A  medicine  against  the  Cancer 

693  Glossary:  Brissia,  pi:  Brissiaeu  .  i .   The  troden  path  in  snowe 

Nyd  oedh  dim  gueryd  ynn  y  tir  a  erdhaist  .i.  no  profitt 
G'seryd  Guenbhre^y  .  i .       The  mosse  of  the  well  stones 

of  G.  Bhre^y 
Mae  smugyl  yndho  .  i .  phruyth,  nerth,  sulifedh 
Ihythrod  vxecsw  .i.  m-8m?s  maisn  .  Ihythrodyn  ,i. 

mymryn,  gronyn  &c.  &c. 

694  A  few  selected  phrases  uu-glossed  o  Lybliyr  Hergest. 

695  Medical  recipes :  To  bath  inflamed  places  &c. 

697  A  table,  showing  the  descent  of  the  "  eldest  sons  "  from  Adam 
to  ILywelyn  ap  Gr:  the  last  prince  of  Wales,  taken  from  "  the  book  of 
Humphre  Ihuyd." 

709  The  pedigrees  of  Etheluulph,  Offa  &c.  extracted  ffrom 
Matthew  of  Westminster,  and  Girald  :  Camb:  in  Descript:  Camb: 

710  The  descendants  of  Lhyr  Ihediaith  farlh  Cerniw. 

711  Y  TAI  ARBENNICABH  YN  NHIB  MON:  Prysadhbhed  .  .  Ihe 
y  trig  Wm:  ap  Hugh  ap  John  Leuis  o'r  Pwlkinaid,  cybhyrderw  i 
S'"  Edw:  Stradling  bharchog.  (2)  Bodijchen  -.  .  .,  (3)  Bodeon  .  .  ., 
(4)  Fen  mynydh  .  .  .  .,  (5)  Lhsydiart  Ihe  y  trig  ....  Dd:  ap 
Ehys  ap  dd:  ap  Gisilym,  (6)  Bodorgan  .  .  .,  also  Lhandoche  .... 
and  DuTj  mares. 

*  See  Anecdota  O.roniensa — Elucidarium  (Oxford,  1894). 
t  Dr.  John  David  Bhys  -wrote  the  preface  to  his  Grammar  at  this  place,  Nov.  G, 
1592. 


724  PENIABTH   MANUSCRIPT   118. 

712  Terms  indicating  degrees  of  descent — direst:  Tad — Mam,mab, 
Tjyr,  goruyr,  gorescenydh  &c.  See  p.  714  infra. 

b.  A  note  on  Ceridisen  -srach,  y  pair,  a  Guion  bach. 

713  Yd  amser  Pictus  ap  Phrancus  y  doeth  Brutus  ap  Sylvius  ir 
ynys  houn,  ac  yr  ymgyssylhtyssant  y  Picteit  sebli  y  Cymbry,  a'r 
Brutaniaid,  sebh  cedymdeithion  Brutus  ya  erbyn  y  Ceuri  a 
gybhanedhynt  y  myuydhoedh  a'r  dipbi?yssoedh.  O  en-s  y  Pictus  ap 
Phrancus  y  gel'sid  y  Cymry  Picteit,  no  nid  oedhynt  y  Picteit,  onyd 
yr  hen  Gymry  &c.  <Sc. 

714  Nav  ach  Ceremjdh:  Brodyr,  Cebhndyr,  Cybhyrdyr,  Plant  y 
Cybhyrdyr,  G'srthnieint,  Ceibbyn,  Gvrthgeibbyn,  Car,  Clyd. 

715  Ach  y  Gomeriaid  nev  Gymry:  Noe,  Japhet  &c.  down  to 
"  Edwart  the  ()th  son  of  Henry  the  &-^  whom  God  preserve."  Thi« 
table  of  descent  has  marginal  notes  and  references  of  the  "learned  " 
kind. 

721  The  pedigree  of  "  John  argluydh  Moudh^y  "  and  som3 
collateral  relations  among  his  ancestors. 

722  The  pedigree  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 

724  Ach  y  pymp  brenhinllisyth  Cymry,  ymhovys,  rhugh  guy  a 
habhren,  Aberphro,  morganuc,  dohevbartli,  ymon,  ynhegaingl, 
ymeirioiiydh,  yniphryn  cluyd,  ]fs  aled,  vifch  aled,  vsch  Dvlas,  ^s 
Dulas,  Arduduy,  Arbhon,  Arlhechuedh,  Penlhyn,  a  Nant  Comjy 

726  Pymp  brenhinlh-^ylh  Cymry ;  (2)  Pymtheclhsyth  G-^ynedh. 
12*1   V  Costa'schyth  Cymry:  yBlaidhrhvdh  orgestyn  Ebbionydh  &c. 
h.  Achossion  i  gads  acheu  ac  arbhev  :  Pymp  achos  ysydh  &c. 

728  The  pedigrees  o/Brychan  Brycheinoc,  Coel  godeboc,  Custenin, 
Maxen  wledic,  Gurtheyrn  ap  Gvrthenev,  Maelgun  guyiiedh, 
Xhouarch  hen,  Morgan  ap  Clydauc,  Ehydherch  hael,  Mordabh,  and 
Elphin. 

b.  The  names  of  the  descendants  of  Cenav  ap  Coel. 

729  Plant  Ednybhed  bhychan:  Tudur  ap  Gronu  &c. 

731-864  We  have,  as  a  sort  of  commentary  on  the  pedigree  tables, 
a  lone  dissertation  on  early  history.  The  author  contends  that  the 
Welsh  Historia3  are  not  more  absurd  or  less  wortliy  of  credence  than 
are  the  early  traditions  of  other  nations  concerning  their  origin  ar.d 
early  days.  Then  follows  an  account  of  the  Giants — firstly  of  classical 
antiquity  and  secondly  of  Wales.  The  topographical  particulars  are 
not  without  their  value  as  every  Cawr  had  his  Caer  or  Castell.  Tiie 
Cewri  enumerated  (pp.  829-37)  are :  in  Merioneth — Idris,  Ophroiii, 
Ysbryn,  ftto  vel  Lytta  vel  Ritta  vel  Eicca  and  ^uni  ;  in  Cardigan  — 
Gvedros,  Ho-sel,  Lhyphan  (ymhlvybh  Lhan  Bhair  or  Lhuyn), 
Pyscoc,  Hedog  (ILandyssul),  Chwil  (Lhanwenog),  Didhannel,  Moel 
(both  in  Ystrad),  Moythyn,  Meibhod ;  in  Carmarthen— Mahon, 
Dinas,  Wilcin  and  Elgan  (the  four  in  ILansa-syl),  Chwermon  (Lhan 
y  Cruys),  Radyr  (Bulch  Rhii?  Radyr  near  Cynuil),  Cyn-sil  (Gayo), 
Ovrbryd,  and  Cymryd  (both  in  Llanlhony) ;  in  Brecknoch — Gogbhran 
(ger  AberYsgyr),  Mughmaur  drebhi,  Cristil,  andcrwast  [crowcastle] 
(all  near  Brecon) ;  in  Cardigan — Maylor  (castell  Maylor=Pen  Dinas, 
Aberystwith),  Cornippin,  (Castell  Cornippin  opposite  Pen  Dinas  on 
the  other  side  of  the  Ystwith),  Grugyn  (ymiyhlybh  Lhan  Hilar),  Buba 
(yghylch  Lhan  Badaru  Bhaur),  Eduyn,  Gar-sed  (Ystrad  Phlvr)  ;  in 
Glamorgan  :  Cribur  (Lliangeuydh),  Oyle  (Pen  Oylo  yn  gybheir-syneb 
Cribarth),  Cedwyn  (ynys  Geduyn),  Dynns  (Craic  Dynas  rel  Craic  y 


THE  BOOK  OF  DE:  JOHN  DAVID  EHYS.  725 

Ihyn  :d  Peiidervn),  B-sch  (Caslell  Buch  rhwngh  C.  Ihioii  a  Lhan 
Ternan)  and  his  sons — Erualht  (Lhan  Gattwc),  Clidha  (Clodhiev  Caer 
Clidha  yinhluybh  Bettws  iieuydh  a  Thii-  Clidha  yn  ILaa  Aith),  Biiga, 
Trogi  (wrth  Goed  G'sent),  Cybi  (castell  Cybi),  Crov  (Castell  tir 
Crov  ymhluybh  y  Betti?s  newydh) — yr  haia  olh  oedhynt  bheibion  i 
Buch  6ai?r  a  rhai  a  dhifedant  bhod  Phili  yn  gaur  ac  yu  bhab  Buch 
ai  diigbha  yn  Caer  Phili.  [B-sch  a  las]  ei  ben  yn  Lhan  Trissant  yn 
Ihe  a  eli?ir  etto  Pea  Bisch.  Erdhan  nev  Gerdhan  ga-sr  oedh  yn  trigo 
myun  ogof  a  eluir  yn  bbyrr  Gogerdhan,  ac  ar  bhryn  a  el^ir  Bryn 
Bron  Grastelhan  yghwlad  Aber  Teibhi;  in  Morgan-^c — Celh. 
B,hi«alha-sn  ga-sr  rhungh  Castelh  Nedh  ac  Aber  Taui,  ILoches 
(Rhyd  Penn  y  Oa^r  rh-sngh  ILann  ^savel  a  Churt  y  Betus)  Bedh 
Dilic  G.  (rh-ygh  Lh.  Jsa'sel  a  Baglann)  ;  in  Brecknock — Tarnor, 
Medhgyra  (AlDer  Ysgyr) ;  Dyrnbhucli  (in  Evas.) ;  G-srle,  jfestyn  ; 
Cornbifeh  (Graig  Don  rhifgh  Trebh  y  claifdli  a'r  Cn^clas  ;  Bedh 
Cynerys  (Lhan  y  Mo-sdhuy  ger  Bulch  sabhn  ast)  ;  Dre-yyn  (yn  y 
Deyrnion)  Heini  (cebhu  a  Lhynn  ar  gybher  Caer  Dreuyn);  Sam  y 
Ti-ichaifr  (ger  Glocaena-sc)  ;  bedh  tri  chaur — (a)  Meichiad  (Nant 
Meichiad),  (6)  A.cdhan  (Bulch  Aedhan — both  in  Meibhod) 
(c)  Ceimiad  (bedh  idhatf  ar  laur  dyphryn  Mochnant  yn  Lh-syn  y 
meini  hirion  ar  bhin  naut  Ceimiad  yn  Pennant  Mylangbell)  ;  Ce'sri 
Broun  '  isrgan  ger  Castell  y  Cnuclas  a  las  Arthur  a  phenn  y  m-syabh 
a  dlioded  yn  yr  abhon  yn  Ihe  maen  ac  Arthur  wrth  lamhv  dros  yr 
abhon  a  dhysaud  tybhed  yr  tad.  Ac  o  hynny  y  gel-sid  yr  ablioa 
Tybhediad. 

Then  (p.  839  &c.)  follows  an  account  of  the  killing  of  giants  and 
wild  beasts  and  of  other  wonderful  and  heroic  feats  by  Corineus,  Eidol, 
Arthur,  David,  Samson,  Georgius  Castriot*  or  Scanderbeg,  Nicholas  ap 
Paul  Ducagin,*  Curceus,*  Leonidas,  Pierstinski,  John  Fox  of  Wood- 
bridge,  John  Duke  of  Bedford,  Lord  Talbot, I  Henri  Plantagenet,| 
Kicbard  il.,f  Matheu  Goch,f  Sir  Rosser  Bhychan,*  Sir  Richard 
Herbert  of  Colebrook  or  his  brother  Thomas  ap  Rosser  Bhychan  of 
"Hergest  wrth  Geinton"  at  the  battle  of  Edgecote  near  Banbury  in 
1469]:  (pp.  857—64),  the  Earl  of  Warwick,§  William  Bhychan  of 
Rhyd  Helyc. 

865  The  Romance  of  Bown  of  Hamton  .  Yn  Hamtun  ydoed  ^arll 
a  ehvitt  Gi'sn  ac  aruer  a  wnaeth  .  .  .  ends :  ]5renhin  bratbhi?rt 
a  oedh  y  my«n  Tur  vchel,  ac  arganbhod  aoruc  bari?neit  civil  ya 
dybhot,  a  mynet  aoruc  att  y  dat  y  bhenegi  idliai? 

The  text  stops  in  the  middle  of  a  line,  and  though  the  rest  of  the  leaf  is  cut  out 
it  is  clear  that  the  copyist  left  it  unfinished.  See  Red  Book  of  Hergest,  cols. 
845 — 926,  1.  6,  of  which  it  seems  to  be  a  verbatim  copy. 

90'J  Selected  passages  from  the  Welsh  Laws  with  Latin  glosses. 

Page  91:!  is  blank — 14  leaves  are  cut  out  after  it,  and  two  more  leaves  before 
the  next  item. 

913  A  fragment  on  a  theological  subject. 

917  A  brief  account  of  the  Kings  of  Scotland  from  the  time  of 
John  Leon  Earl  of  Glames  and  King  Kobert  I.  to  the  marriage  o£ 
Bothwell  witb  Queen  Mary — all  in  English. 

930  Lists  of  the  Saxon  kings  with  brief  remarks  concerning  som« 
of  them,  followed  by  additional  matter  on  the  Scottish  kings. 


*  Vide  Jacob  de  Luardin  de  Gestis  Georgij  Castriot,  lib.  12. 

t  Vide  Grafton,  reign  of  Henry  iv.  and  Henry  vi. 

j  Vide  Hall's  Chronicles. 

§  Vide  John  Stow'i  Chronicles. 


726  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   119. 

MS.  119.= Hen.  351.  Poetut  (including y  Gogynveirdt)  Medy- 
GON  Mtdvei,  Catalogue  of  Hengwrt  MSS.,  &c.,  the  Letters  of 
Egbert  Joseph  of  Evesham  in  Latin,  and  miscellanea.  Paper; 
ll|x7iinches;  742  pages  in  various  hands— A  =  pp.  35-45, 125-47* 
179-83  ;  B  =  pp.  55-78,  261-500 ;  C  =  pp.  79-100  ;  D  =  pp.  504- 
735,  741-42 — hand  A  belongs  to  the  earlier  part  of  the  xviitb  century, 
B  to  the  xvmth  century,  D  to  the  middle  of  the  xvi'h  century,  and 
the  remaining  hands  are  of  very  various  dates  ;  hound  in  rono-h 
leather. 

This  MS.  once  belouged  to  Ediv.  Lhwyd,  and  later  formed  part  of  the  Sebrii'lit 
•collection  ;  it  was  bought  for  the  Hengwrt  Collection  for  SI.  18s,  &d.  '^ 

1  Table  of  Contents  (late),  and  aa  impression  of  Sir  J,  Sebright's 
seal  in  red  wax — "  44." 

3    I'  Uicynog  :  Kampvs  pol  nedd  vth  roddwvd     ....  a 

ffarwel  Rhaid  vm  ffo  ir  allfc  {ff.  ILoyd  Kynddel) 

7  fr  oeii :  Y  gwirion  Iwdn  teg  rhosvnllaes     ....  6 

a  reni  heddwch  ir  enaid 

11  Llythyr    \Vm:    Jones    at  Edw:  Lliwyd :  Vyn    nhaith    am    pererindod    y 
Gonaught  sjdd  ry  hir  imi  yw  threuthu  ond   y  petheu  m6yaf  hynod  ae  y  weleis 

i    ny  fedra  gan  yssu   moi  cadw  yn  gyfrinachol offeiriad  yr  hen  ffydd 

oeddwii  yn  mhob  He  a  thre  ag  gweitheu  bygythion  cychiog  y  gawn  .  .  gan  fod 
y  bobl  mor  guaidd  a  gwyllt  .  .  .  yr  oeddwn  yn  kymryd  gofal  y  nodi  pob  dydd 
yu    neilltuol    enwae   y    kestill  .  .    yr   arverion    chwarae    ae    Iiymdrysiad  .  . 
Mynachlog  Clwyn  Macn6s  .  .  kefeis  gerrig  a  llythrenneu  arnynt  a  dwy  groes 
gerviedig  .    .  .  yu  y  Coi'sydd  mawr  ynia  yr  oedd  gwyddelod  .  .  .  yn  Ilechu  . 
ymddangosseut  wcithieu  yn  i   clogeu  ac   yn  nhiffyg   y  glog  o  draws  ysgwydd 
niantell  y  wraig  a  ivasanaetheu  .  .  .  y  mae  y  rhan  fwj'af  or  plant  ya  noethyon 
3"awn  &c. 

15  Mar:  John    IVyn  ap    Wm:  or  fynachlog  .  iCsg. 

Gwryndewch  alaith  wylo     ...  c 

yno  i  orffwys  o  fewn  arch       (?Autograph)         Edw:  Price 

19       ||*Hnrri  os  maes  Rhys  ay  niynn     ....  d 

Blakyeth  ysgvr  loiw  i  kaid     .... 
Gwawi-  i  dwssawg  gardasavr*  Rhys  Nanmor 

25  Part  a  hen  gamberaeg  ar  Jailh  arferedig  tv?tlii 

Abac  =  Rhyfel,  Abwy  =  Burgvn,  Ach  Ian  =  J  gyd, 
Adywing  =  yniddensys,  Adnav  ~  Perchenog  .  .  .  ends. 
Trefred  =  k.irtref,  Trulliad  =  bwttler,  Tvd  =  daear, 
Tyrnged  =  trybut  left  unfinished 

35  Chronology  :  \\  ag  yn  ol  geraint  i  bv  kadell  3'n  frenin  ddeng- 
mlynedd  |  ag  yn  ol  kadell  i  bv  koel  yn  frenin  ddengmlynedd  |  ag 
yn  ol  koel  i  bu  porrcx  yn  frenin  ddevddengmlynedd  ....  ends  : 
meibion  kadwaladr  fendigaid  /  ^for  alan  ag  idwol  iwrch  a  fvant  yn 
dwysogion  ynghynirv  ag  ni  chowsani  fynd  yn  frenhinoedd  y  dyrnas. 

45  Meibion  Wiliam  kwnkwerwr  nid  aragen  Rob'  dvc  o  norraandi/ 
W.  goch  ....  ends :  ag  i  barri  y  pvmed  i  bv  fab  a  elwid  harri  sant. 

55  MEDDYGON  MYDDVEI:-\  Allan  o  lyfr  S"  gynt  o  eiddo  Mr,  Wynn 
o  Todysgallan  yn  Sir  Caernarfon  .  y  rhan  gyntaf  or  Uyfr  oedd  wedi  ei  ys- 
crivennu  ar  bappyr  .  .  .  .  ar  parth  arall  ar  femrwn. 

TLyma  veddeginaeth  a  cfiyngorav  rrialon  feddic  ai  Jeibion  nid 
anigen  na  chr/dwgan  a  yrvffvd  ac  einon  :  A  llyma  dechreu  tuag  at  y 

*  The  top  of  pages  19-22  have  been  torn  away  and  the  text  is  imperfect. 

t  The  copyist  imitates  the  writing  of  his  originals,  which  appear  to  he  about 
11520  (pan  i)  and  late  xvth  century  (part  ii).  Cf.  Johaniiis  Faulini  Salun  vita  in 
.\shmole  .MS.  H37  in  the  Bodleiiui  Library. 


LISTS   OF    MANUSCRIPTS   ETC. 


727 


penn:  Tri  lie  yn  y  penn  y  megir  kylfydau  nid  amgeu  yn  y  touii,  ar 
greuan,  yr  graeadr.y  tonn  a  wavedir  o  waed  a  fflastarau,  a  llosgati:  ar 
grefan  yu  yr  J'n  niodd  .  .  .  .ends:  Rliag  biiw  mewn  llygad,  kymer 
bint  o  win  gvvyn  a  llonaid  Haw  o  ddail  rlios  cochion,  ag  o  had  Comyii 
ddau  lonaid  gwyniadyr  a  berw  hivynt  nes  uddynt  fynd  yn  uwd  ;  a  dod 
y  gloywon  i  gadvv  mewn  glass,  a  dod  yn  dy  lygad  fore  a  liwyr,  a 
gwua  blastar  or  tew  ne'r  gwaelodyon  a  dod  wrtli  dy  lygad,  a  gwna 
hyn  oni  bo  fo  yn  iach  .  / 

Part  II. 

Yma  y  dechreu  yr  ail  ran  or  llyfr  rliagddwerledig  sydd  Tvedi 
i  ysorivennu  ar  femrwn 

59  P6i/  bi/nnac  a  vynno  g6ybot  dirgel6ch  a  pherffeitlir6j/dd  y 
yelvyddyt  honn  darestyget  y  vedOl.  Jeuan  ba6l  yng6lat  yr  eiff't  yn 
edrych  llyfyr  ydragwydda6l  iechyd  y  liOnn  y  gwelas  amravael 
gywreinrwydd ;  nyd  amgeii  nor  rei  y  dywedir  rac  Ua6 ;  dendec 
hywreinrwydd  yssydd  ar  groen  neidyr  y  rei  y  tysla  Alplam  a 
dywa6t  eu  bot  yn  wir  ac  yn  ffrwythlawn  yr  sawl  a  orverei  o 
Jionunt ;  a  minneu  Jevan  o  Arabic  ae  troes  yn  lladin. 

Pan  vo  y  He  vat  ar  y  tytiyant  yn  y  fad  gyntaf  or  arOydd  a  elwir 
aries,  sef  yw  bynny  gwydyr  y  kymyrth  ynteu  y  env  y  gantaw,  ar 
av6yd  h6nnG  a  dygOyd  amgylch  banner  mis  mawi'tli  &c 

Y  Syfyi-  bOn  a  gynnullOyd  o  amryvaelon  lyfreu  Meddygon,  a 
phessigOyr  y  rei  yssyd  brofadwy  eu  bot  yn  wir.:  nyt  anigen; 
EuallaOn  veddic,  ae  veibyon  sef  ynt  y  rhei  bynny  kadOgon,  a  Gr:  ac 
Einon. 

Hyn  o  reol  a  dylyei  pob   Medic  yn  gyffredin  y  gwybot  ay  chadw 

gantaO  yn  dda  rac  ofyn  pallu  y  gelvyddyt  megys  dall   &c 

ends :  Y  Beri  ennill  gol6c ;  llyma  iacbvyolyon  gweirdabeu  nyt 
amgen  yr  eli  g(vrthva6r  a  elwir  Colliriu)?i  yr  h6n  yssyd  oreu  oil  yr 
llygeit,  &c.  the  end  of  the  original  MS.  was  evidently  wanting. 

79  "A  copy  of  a  Manuscript  of  M''  William  Maurice's  [of  Kevn 
y  braich']  as  communicated  by  M^  Tho:  Price  of  Lhanvylhin." 
[Edward  Lhwyd']. 

The  first  list  mentions  MSS.  which  are  now  mostly  in  the  Peni.arth 
Library,  but  where  is  "  ILyfr  Cerddi  y  Tywysogion  o  law  D''  Powell 
a  cliywyddau  or  llyfr  Gtvyn  o  Hergest  o  law*  D''  Davies"? 

The  second  list  (p.  81)  has  the  heading  :  Bibliotliecce  VachaniancB 
MS.  Brit.  Recensio  facta  per  W.  31aiiricc  A.D.  163S.  Compare 
Cymmrodorion  Transactions,  yo\.  u.  p.  403  (London,  1828).  The 
order  in  the  Cambrian  Register  (vol.  iii.  p.  278)  is  different. 

The  third  list  (p.  92)  furnishes  a  Cofrestr  o  Lyfrau  ysgrivenedig  y 
gan  M^'  John  Jones  o  Ysceiviog  [afterwards  of  Uelli  Lyvdy]. 

The  fourth  list  (p.  97)  states:  "y  petliau  sydd  yn  canlyn  a  gefais  i 
yp  Lib.  B  U''  Davies  o  Vallwyd  " — then  follow  the  contents  of  the  Red 
Book  of  Hergest  which  at  that  time  belonged  to  Lewys  Mawnsell  of 
of  Margam,  and  on  the  next  page  we  are  told  that  John  Jones  of 
Ysceiviog  owned  JLyvyr  Gwyn  i  Rydderch  [=  Pen.  MS.  5].  Pages 
99  and  100  contain  some  further  extracts  in  the  hand  of  Tho:  Price 
of  Lhanvylhin. 

101  "  A  Catalogue  of  some  MSS.  in  Hengwrt  Study  A°  1696  "  ? 

105  Extracts  by  Robert  Vaughan  from  Tho^  James's  Catalogue  of 
Ancient  MSS.  in  the  Cambridge  Libraries. 

*  Pen.  MS.  49   contains  cywygeu  from  the  White  Book  of  Hergest  and  part  of 
that  MS.  is  frohably  in  the  "  liand  "  of  Dr.  Davies. 


728  PENIARTH   MANUSCSIPT    119. 

125       Di  gam  i  gwnaeth  dvw  gymwyll     ....  « 

dvvv  ai  gnaw;1  au  dwg  i  net  Jolo  goch 

128       Dyma  fyd  hyd  i  mae  havl     ....  6 

heb  orffen  /  amen  fab  mair  Sion  kent 

132  Dioddefaint  Crist 

Prins  0  nef  /  pienn  iesv  i  nawdd     ....  c 

aichaf  vn  /  arch  yw  f'enaid  Lewis  morgaimwg 

134       Mae  vn  kvn  /  yma  /  n  /  kynnal     ....  d 

fo  cef  /  ai  gartref  i  gyd  gvtto  r  glynn* 

136       Y  gwr  eglvr  i  gioglith  &c.— end  wanting.    Seep.  170  below,      e 
139       II  y  devddeg  arwydd  kysdvddiais  im  bronn     ....        / 

y  byd  rliwng  i  bedair  rhwyd  Lewis  ghjnn  kothi 

141       dvw  gadarn  fendigedig     ....  q 

Da  drwg  wiwddvw  /n/  dragwyddol         Richard kynnwal 
145       Kyffe.?wn  gwelwn  yn  gwaith     ....  h 

dvw  niawr  ith  wennwlad  amen  „  „ 

147       Blin  yw  trailed  rhod  ar  hwn     ....  j 

dan  oddef  yn  dwyn  iddi  Doctor  Sion  kent 

150       Tri  oedran  hoiwlan  helynt     ....  k 

yn  y  bedd  a  diwedd  da  /  „  „ 

152  ILyma  fyd  llwm  o  fedydd     ....  I 
a  rof  ym  kefaill  o  rhan                                          „             „ 

153  Y  byd  trist  ar  bowid  traw     ....  m, 
Duw  a  dro  gair  dy  drigaredd                               Wm:  Llyn 

155       Y  gwr  vwch  ben  goriwch  byd     ....  n 

yma  ddvw  nef  madde  i  ni  Dd:  ap  Rees  ap  Evenin 

157       O  frodvr  oil  fawr  rad  ryra     ....  o 

yngroes  Duw  ag  yng  Christ  oil  Johnffylipp 

160   Yr  Angav  :  Elin  yw  /r/  byd  mal  blaenawr  bach  ....        p 
a  berv  byth  bvra  byd  Tho:  Price 

163  Etto :  Owr  garw  blin  a  gar  blav     ....  q 

kyfflypa  ir  kasa  i  kael  Morgan  ap  Hugh  Lewis 

165       Meddyliwn  am  wedd  alaw     ....  r 

y  delom  bawb  y  bobol  iddi  D^  Sion  Kent 

16S       Gwir  adjn  gvr  ydwyf     ....  s 

anrhydcdd  mawredd  Amen  Morgan  ap  H.  Lewis 

170       Y  gwr  eglyr  i  groglith     ....  t 

dvw  mawr  rhag  pob  dim  arall    See  p.  136  above.    S.  Bruynog 

179  J  W.  Wynn  o  Lanfair :  Y  gwynn  bob  awr  ag  ennyd     .     .  u 
mynno  dvw  /  mwy  na  dwyoes  Richard  Kynnwal 

188  A  fragment  (12  //.)  ending  : 

att  dvw  irr  nef  /  katrin  aeth  Simwnt  fychan  v 

184  A  list  of  Greek  words  with  allied  words  in  Latin  and  Welsh 
by  Ed.  Lhwyd. 

Marwnadeu  i  Sion  wynn  aer  Wm:  wynn  o  Lanfair  ,  l62g 
226       O  dvw  Ian  di  lawenydd    .     .     .     ,  m 

Jesv  iw  nawdd  a  sion  wyn  Hvio  niachno 

*  "prydydd  godidog  a  gwr  o  gard  Edwart  y  pedwerydd." 


KOPY   O   HEN   GOWYDDEU   ETC.  729 

230       Mae  bar  hir  yma  i  barhav     ....  a 

irr  ddav  wiliam  avr  ddciliawg  Richard  philip 

233       Am  sion  wyii  mae  sou  anap  &c.     12  11.  only— left  uufinislieil    b 
237  Mar:  Barbra  gwraig  Rich:  Midleton  or  plus  neimjdd 
yvwdlith  .  16^5  . 
Dyddiaii  dyn  su  yn  deiddaw  di     ,     .     .     .  c 

ddyn  ifangc  i  dduw  nefawl  Hugh  3Iorris 


241  Measures  of  Land  in  Caernarvonshire  .  Tres  pedes  faciunt 
unam  ulnam  &c. 

b.  Lawes  and  customs  within  y«  Lordshippe  of  Dyffryn  clwyd 
afore  the  shire  ground — extracts  from  a  charter  of  the  town  of 
Denbigh  granted  by  Edward  vi. 

243  A  grant  of  land  in  Maylor  Seisnic  "  &  mansum  nostrum  de 
Prestaulton  "  to  Kob:  de  Crevequeor. 

244  Reasons  why  y^  repealing  of  a  clause  of  y^  new  order  of  Wales 
was  desired  "  sixty  years  after "  the  removal  of  all  differences 
between  the  government  of  England  &  Wales  by  Henry  viii. 

246  The  Inscription  ofMacdufFes  Crosse  in  Fyfe  with  a  paraphrase 
1691. 

249  The  "petition  of  Thomas  Canon  Esq.  yi"  maUo  Surveyor  ofyr 
possessions  in  South  Wales  "  concerning  waste  lands,  with  the  king's 
answer  .  1619. 

254  "  The  substance  of  y'  which  I  delivered  in  evidence  about 
Wales  and  Abergele  to  ye  Jury  for  Mr.  Williams."         Robert  Lloyd 

258  "  A  brief  note  of  ye  instructions  ordained  by  her  ma''^  to  be 
observed  by  y"  L.  President  &   Counisell  in  the  Marches  of  Wales." 

Orders  for  Ludlow  in  Queen  Elizabeth's  time. 


261-500  Kopy  0  Mn  Gowyddeu  allan  0  Lyfr  Sir  Roger  Mostyn. 
{yr  hiin  a  berti/nase  T,ynt  i  Dhoctor  Davies  0  Valhvyd.)* 

The  above  MS.  is   now  in  the  British  Musbum  :  it  is  known  as  Ad uitioiai, 
MS.  H869,  and  it  contains  the  original  text  of  pages  261-500  of  this  MS. 


501  A  copy  of  the  ordre  of  pardoa  of  ILewelin  ap  howell  signed  by 
Edward,  Lord  Dudley  and  Powis,  and  dated  15S6. 

503       Welcome  to  venus  gentle  curteous  knight  ...  d 

0  that  faire  Winifrid  would  once  say  soe  . 

6.      Good  morow  Valentine  god  blesse  you  euer     ....       e 

kisse  and  good  raorow 

b.      Os  hen  ym  gwelen  gwedi  kiliaw  (ym  hynt)     .     .     .     .      / 

mi  a  roe  ar  dduw  roi  im  awr  dda  .  Esgob' Dewi 

504-735  Latin   Letters   and  poems   addressed    Henrico   Wyllys 

Ethelstano,  Mro  Goodryche,   Philippo  Actono,  Mauricio   Gwyttino' 

Edmundo   fFyldo,   Humffrido  Chestero,  Richardo  Esloudo,  Johanni 

Fecknamo  (Dean  of  St.  Paul's,— made   Abbot  of  Westminster  by 

*  The  addition  in  brackets  is  apparently  in  the  hand  of  Edw:  Lhwyd. 
y  98430.  E  E 


730  PENIARTH   MANUSCEIPTS   119-120. 

Queen   Man),   Johanni   Neoto   (of  Glastonbury),   &c,,   &o.      The'.; 
letters  &c.  are  signed  Robertus  Josephus  "  Eveshamlensis  Monarchse 
sacellanu.?,"  "  Eveshamie    monachus,"  "  quondam  Sacellanus   Eves- 
hamie,"  "  ex  Eveshama  Bibliotheca  "  &c.,  &c. 

734  (Mae  rhai  n  doedyd  imi  gaffael     ....  a 
pen  oedd  niewn  kyfyngdra  am  gymar)                                             Anon 

735  Y  ddae  ben  a  fy  ddiball  ym  ennyd  &c. .  1490,  .     Gr:  ap  J.  ap  IVn  v'n  b 

b.  Pan  fo  henwraeh  yn  elinderddiaeh  fy  nyfyrrweh  iw  byddarwch  Dr  W'ms  c 

c.  Mae  n  dda  i  wr  gwar  fod  yn  fyddar  lie  bo  gwrachau  yn  ymreukiau  d 

J.  gr:  ap  % 

d.  Fob  ffryttin  brilin  yn  briwiio  i  bi»  *  *  heb  wybod  moi  gredo  &c.      Anon  « 

736  Gwaetlia  cant  meddant  /  i  /  mi  /  ai  gwillio  a  golwg  pawb  drosti  &c.       „     / 

b.  GoUwng  fi  Arg:  ti  ai  gelli  om  poen  .  .  .  ag  i  fynv  dwg  fenaid  i         „  g 

c.  Y  da  a  drig  yma  drwg  emyn  .  .  .  ar  gweithredoedd  .  .  a  gida  r  dvn  k 

d.  Ofer  yw  balchderllei  bo,  bS,r  addysk  byr  wreiddin  sydd  iddo_&c.       Anon  i 

e.  Gwnae  bregeth  ddifeth  ddwyfawl  ddayonys  .  .  .  ni  wna  i  hvn  yn  i  hoi  k 

f.  Cwyn  i  fyd  rhyw  bryd  ger  bron  y  gwirdduw  a  gerddo  'r  ffordd  union  &<;.  I 

g.  Y  winivdden  a  nyddir  /  yn  egwan  iawn  ag  yu  ir  ai 

pan  el  yn  hen  gangen  gv/ni  ddiodde  mwy  moi  nyddv  .  Anon 

h.     ni  ddaw  i  ddim  ronyn  ond  a  rhannodd  duw  /ni  ddaw  dim  oi  anfodd  &c.  n 

737  Englynion  brwnt  anfuddiol :  Diawles  ddigvnnes  mai  geni  &e.  T.  Tegid  o 

738  ffydd  Ehufain  fvlain  fiVdd  i  addoli  yr  pab  ffydd  mam  pob  drlgioni  &c.  p 
b.      Anydonwr :  Nid  diflas  nid  kas  krockysivr  .  .  .  tyn  lyfr  oddi  tan  i  law.  q 

739  Medical  recipes  in  Englishe 

741  "Ordo  Tomorum  et  librorum  divi  Augustini" 


MS.  120  =  Hen.  3o0.  Tkanscmpis  from  the  Book  of  Llan  Day, 
from  JfiSDS  College  MSS.  3  =  xx,  2  =  cxix,  7  =  xxii,  &  17  =  xxyin, 
of  the  History  of  the  Gwydie  Family,  and  of  Robert  Vaughan's 
Note  Book  ;  the  British  Genealogist,  Topographical  Notes  on 
Glamorgan  &  Gower,  Poetry  re  Anarawd,  the  wars  of  Brecknock, 
&c.  Paper;  12f  X  VJ  inches;  617  pages  wilh  many  more  blank  and 
unnumbered  ;  in  many  hands  ;  close  of  the  xvmth  century  ;  bound  in 
rough  leather,  uniform  with  MS.  119. 

Pages  1-90,  95-365  are  in  the  same  hand  (?  Edw:  Lhwyd's).  The  British 
Genealogist  seems  to  have  been  written  about  IC93.  At  the  beginning  there  is 
a  part  of  a  letter  addressed  to  Edw:  Lhwyd  "  fCree  John  Austis." 

I  Selected  passages,  mostly  topographical,  taken  from  the  Booh  of 
JLlan  Ddv  now  at  Gwyssaney  in  the  county  of  Denbigh. 

45  A  list  of  51  Bishops  of  LI.  Dav  from  Dubricius  to  J.  Wellys. 

47   Yn  y  mod  hwn  y  treythir  o  cheicedleit  Seith  Doethion  Eufein 
0  weilh  ILywehjn  offeiriad.         *42 

69  ILyma  ddechreu  ebostol  y  Sul  yn  y  modd  hwn.  *30 

71  Ach  Kynawc  Sant,  Cattwc  Sant,  Src,  Eniven  Brenhinedd  y 
Bryttanycit  IfC.         *33-41b 


*  These  numbers  refer  to  the  folios  of  Jesus  CoUego  MS.  3  =  xx,  which  contains 
the  oriffinal  text. 


COPIES   OF  JESUS   COLLEGE  MANUSCRIPTS,  731 

78f  Englynion  yr  Eryr  and  Eiry  mynydd,  Gorwynnion,  Kalan- 
gayaj,  y  Bitycu,  &  Englynion  y  clyweit.         *l-8'^,  10-15'' 

86t  A  fragment  of  the  Romance  of  Oiuein  Sr  Lunet.        *86-90 
90|  Gnawt  gwynt  or  delieu  &c.       •  *9 

A  COMPLETE    TRANSCRIPT  of  ILyFYR  AgKYR  JLANDEWn'REVI 

or  Jesus  College  MS.  2  —  cxix. 
92-3  Tii"ble  of  Contents  &,  Prologue. 
95  Lucidar :  Gwathret  y  llyvyr  hwnn  a  berthynn  ar  doy  bersson 

<&o.         14'' 

181   Yn  y  inodd  hynn  y  treitUr  vol  yd  aeth  meir  y  nef.         $69 
191  Ilystoria  Idrian  Amherawdyr  ag  Ipotis  ysprydawl.         lUl 
203    Veil  hynn  y  digawn  y  tad  ar  mah  ar  yspryd  glan  vot  yn  vn 

Dim.         tll9  ' 

206  Hystoria  i  ddyscu  y  ddyn  pa  dhelw  y  dylei  gredy  SfC.    1121 

215  JLyma  Pivyll  y  Pater  ae  ddyall  val  y  dyweit  hu  Sunt.  J125 

222  Rinweddeu  (a)  gwrando  offeren,{h)  gwelet  Corff  Crist.  $128 

221  Breuddwyt  Pawl  Ebostol.         J 129 

226  ILyina  yr  achos  ydaeth  bar  Duw  yn  ych plith  SfC.         jl32 

^29  Ehybudd  Gabriel  Angel  at  Veir  SfC.         J 134 

230  ILyma  evengul  Jeuan  Ebost.         1134 

234  JLyma  ddechreu  y  story  a  giolat  Jevan  vendigeit.         J 137 

243  Buchedd  Beuno  ae  wyrtheu.         J104 

253  Vma  y  treithir  o  Ach  Deioi  ac  o  dalyin  oe  vuchedd.       J93 

267  Kyssegrlan  vuchedd,  ne  Ymborili  ir  enaid.         J78 


A  TRANSCRIPT  OF  JeSUS  CoLLEGE  MS.   7  —  XXIL 

285  ILyma  rosin  }■  metugineth  o  dyic  meddygon  myvei  &c,  §    1. 

b.  A  kalendar  §  3. 

289-313  A  medical  treatise  :  ILytliyr  Aristoteles  yw  hwn,  Alex- 
ander vawr  0  gadwadigaetli  korf  dyn  a  gavas  ynteu  yn  temyl  yr 
haulgyynt&c.  §1S-162. 


815  "  The  history  of  Griffith  ap  Cynan,  Prince  of  North  Wales, 
wherein  mention  is  made  of  his  offspring  down  to  Morris  Wynne  of 
Gwydyr  Esq.ipritten  by  S'  John  fFynne  y'^  eldest  Kt.  and  Baronet!' 
This  is  the  worlc  known  as  the  History  of  the  Gwydir  Family. 
The  text  agrees  with  the  printed  "editions  and  contains  the  Latin 
passages.-  It  ends:  "  who  were  to  answer  the  crie  and  come  also 
upon  ye  like  distress."  See  Askew  Roberts's  edition,  p.  84,  1.  16,  and 
Mostyn  MS.  165,  p.  233. 

366  An  answer  to  North  Wales  men  that  lootdd  maintain 
Anarawd  to  be  the  elder  of  his  brethren  and  the  supmor  Prince  of 

'  These  numbers  refer  to  the  folios  of  Jesus  College  MS.  3  =  xx,  which  contains 
the  original  text. 

t  Pages  78-91  are  written  on  the  verso  of  folios  76-64. 

X  These  numbers  refer  to  the  folios  of  the  original,  Jesus  College  MS.  2  =  csis. 

§  These  cumbers  refer  to  the  pagss  of  the  original,  Jesus  College  MS.. 7  =  xxii.  ' 

E  E   2 


732  PENIAHTH   MANUSCEIPT   120. 

Wales  :  For  as  much  as  of  late  years  it  hath  grown  a  question  among 
us  of  Wales  which  of  y"  three  sonnes  of  Rhodri  the  great,  who  besan 
his  Reign  Ano  diii  843,  was  sole  and  entire  prince  or  rather  king 
of  all  Wales  .... 

Tri  meib  Rhodri  mewn  tremyn  ci  keid     katleli,  Anerawd,  Jlervyn 
Rhannodd  ef  rhon  oedd  yr  un     Rhoddiad  hell  Gyraru  rhyddyn 
Rhannodoi  a  gododd  er  gwell     dawn  efjdd  Dinefwr  i  gadell 
y  mab  hynaf  oi  stafell     Penaf  "  wyr  pwy  aa  well 
Anerawd  gwastawd  dan  go    yn  gyfan  a  gafodd  Aberffro 
Mae  daioni  Daw  yno  fe  biau  ei  bryniau  ai  bro 
Gwir  Gwir  y  ddywedir  am  ddun  paeii  ifank     Powys  katas  Mervyn 
Llyna  r  modd  ir  adroddyn  y  treier  rhwug  y  trywir  hyn      Z).  Nanlmore 
ends :  all  the  rest  of  North  Wales  house,  are  confessed   by  their 
own  histories  &  authors  to  be  usurpers,  without  lawfull  title  .... 
owen  ap  Ho:  dha  being  prince  of  Wales  who  subdued  North  Wales, 
&  gave  it  to  his  youngest  son   Mredydd   whose    Issues  ever  after 
enjoyed  y«  same,  saving  some  spaces  y'  others  entered  &   usurped, 
who  were    with  speed    kill'd    or   expell'd    therhence,    as   is   before 
declared,  And  lastly  Griffith  ap  Conan  was  invested  theria  by  Rees 
ap  Tewdwr  as  prince  of  South  Wales  as  is  above  said* 

415  The  wars  of  Brecknocke :  Gwrgan  ap  ^thel  ap  Morgan 
mwynfawr  marryed  first  Gwenvyn  daughter  to  kynfyn  &c. 

"Seriptum  per  me  Rogerum  Williams  cler:  xxiii  Mail  i6i5  "  in  the  same  hand 
as  text  of  pp.  366-415.  The  above  subscription  has  been  "crossed  out"  and 
underneath  is  written  "Seriptum  per  me  Davidem  Parry  Cereticensem  Ao.  1696  " 
in  different  ink  and  hand. 

416  An  answer  made  articularly  Sf  yt  ex  tempore  by  Rich  Griffith 
To  the  first  you  must  bring  better  proofes  for  the  elder  ship  & 
superiority  of  Catello  y"  is  contained  in  your  articles  .  .  .  ends  : 
si)oken  &  written  for  y®  honour  of  North  Wales  without  discussing 
of  soueraigne  titles  which  all  without  controversie  concurre  in  y* 
person  of  her  Mat'e. 

419  V  Syr  Rys  ap  Tomas  y  erchi  kejfyl 

Vr  Eryr  gwyllt  ar  wyr  gant     .... 

dros  orved  or  draws  arvav  Tiidilr  Aled 

A  COPY  OF  A  Note  Booke  of  Robert  Vaughan 

396  ILyfr  Twng  o  Ruthin  gan  Wm:  Pistor  officer  to  ye  Earle  of 
Warwick  Lincolnshire  ....  Life  of  Ll'n  ap  ^or:  and  dd:  his 
Sonne  in  St.  Rennet's  Coll.  Cambridge  ....  At  Carno  near  the 
church  westward  there  is  a  round  plot  of  ground  environed  with  a 
very  deep  ditch  where  they  say  the  ch.  was  seated. 

Eastward  from  Carno  is  .  .  gwayn  yr  hualc,  &  three  heaps  of 
stones  thereon  ....  Names  of  the  principal  men  y*  kept  Harddlech 
castle  against  Edw.  iv.  (p  431)    St.  David's,  description  of  tombs  &c. 

Fx  libris]  Jois  DdResi:  (1)  Dd:  ap  Roser  o  Landygwy,  (2)  D.  ap- 
Tho:  harry  de  eadem,  (3)  Harry  ap  Owen  de  Llangoedmor— Cardigan, 
U\  y  cwtta  cyfarwydd  gyda  Mr  Lewis  or  Van.  (5)  R.  Ho"  Latine  & 
Brittennice  nuper  Rici  Price,  (6)  Ho:  Havart  o  Aberhodni  Llyfr  o 
Ystoria'r  Cymru  ar  vemrwn  fol.  165  quarto,  (7)  Gweithredoedd 
Carolo  Magno  &c.,  [8]  [Llyvyr  Agkyr  Llandewi  vrevi]  [9]  A 
fragment  of  Welsh  Annals  sent  by  Rich:  Davies  Bp.  of  St.  B.  to 
Archbp.   Parker  1568  who  left  a  fair  coppie  in  Bennet  Colledge  in 


*  A  list  of  the  Cantreds  and  Commotes  of  Wales  is  given  in  the  body  of  the  above 
^TApparw't  "numbers  1-7  only  belonged  to  J.  Davydd  Rhys. 


THE   BRITISH   GENEALOGIST.  733 

Cambridge  [10]  A  Bk:  written  by  Sir  Edw:  Stradling  in  Latin  to 
Mr  Camden,  [11]  One  Bostock  dwelling  in  a  Eedhouse  in  Cheshire 
hath  y*  life  cr  history  of  King  Arthur  &  E.  Cestrensis.  Bob. 
Davies  (p.  436) 

437  An  itinerary  from  Llanbadarn  to  St.  Davids -(p.  437) 

438  The  dates  of  the  death  of  various  persons  and  of  certain  events 

439  Quotations  illustrative  of  Brytwn,  galon  &c. 

440  Quotations  from  Camden,  Wm.  of  Malmsburie  &c. 

442  "  of  an  Ancient  book  with  my  Lord  Wra:  Howard  of  the  laws 
of  Dyvynwal  as  is  tiiought"  &c.  Libri  MSS.  in  Bibliotheca  S" 
Benedicti  Cantabrigje. 

445  List  of  Contents. 

The  remainder  of  the  MS.  is  written  "  upside  down  "  on  the  reverse  side  of 
pages  365  to  187. 

The  British  Genealogist — Y^ first  hook  : 
Of  y^  Gentry  of  Monmouthshire 

447  Kagland :  Siward  or  sy  ward  ye  great  E.  of  Northumberland  &c. 

448  Lanternam  :  Bledri  Lord  of  Kylsant  in  Carmarthen 

b.  Llanarthney  :  John  Harry  ap  Bees  of  Llangathen  &c. 

449  Buch  ILaylhwen:  gftm  vychan  married  as  in  y"  descent  of 
vaughan  of  ILetherllesty. 

6.  Al/t  y  kadno :  Thorn:  Bobt:  Gr:m'J  as  in  y"  descent  of  Lloyd 
of  Gellygydrog. 

450  Cwmgwyllee  :  Bledri  lord  of  Kylsant  m"*  as  in  y"  descent  of 
Phillips  of  kylsant. 

451  T/ie  Glyn  :  Theodor  y^  great  prince  of  S.  Wales  m*  as  in  y" 
descent  of  ILoyd  of  forrest. 

b.  JCeven  mably :  Gwrwared  surnamed  Kemeys  .  .  .  descended 
from  Allyn  k.  of  Dyued  &c. 

452  Llangijbby  :  Rees  goch  lord  of  ystrudey. 

b.  Gwerndhy  :  Herbert  or  Henry  fitzroy  base  son  to  k.  Henry  i.  &c. 

453  Byxwere  :  Catchmay. 

b.  Machen:  The  lord  R.  pr:  of  S.  Wales  .  .  T.  Morgan  of  machen 

454  Colebrooke:  GHm  Jenkin  of  Gwerndhy. 
b.  Llanthoony  :  Ymyr  king  of  all  Gwent 

455  Treoicen  :  Malkolme  k.  of  Scots  m*  in  titulo  Eagland. 

Ve  second  book — Ofy^  Gentry  of  Glamorganshire. 

456  3Iergham  or  Margam :  Ph'e  Mansfield,  manxel  or  Mansell 
came  to  England  with  y"  conqueroi'. 

457  St.  Donatts :  Sir  Wm:  esterling  alias  Stradling  k*  &c. 

458  Dyngestoio  :  D  of   Similia  in   Normandy  marshall  of 

England  (as  Endleby)  &c. 

b.  Betlios  Sf  Llanv  y  hang  ell :  Morgan  Mwynfawr  Id:  of  Glam: 

459  TLantrydhed :  Sir  Reginald  Awbrey  k*. 

460  The  Vanne :  Gwaethuoed  prince  of  Cardigan  .  .  kydi'ych  lord 
of  Gwynvay  2^  Son  &c. 


462  Difference  between  y«  loio  countrey  people  in  nature  and 
quality  S;  y"  upper,  tvhick  commonly  were  tearmed  mountaineers  : 
As  y^  lower  or  southern  soile  next  to  y^  severn  sea  severed  from  y' 
other  by  y«  common  travelling  Pligh  way  usually  called  y«  Port 
way  ....  did  far  surpasse  y°  other  in  goodness  and  fertility,  sv>  y° 
other  did  far  surmount  it  in  breeding  of  tall  mighty  &  active  people 


734  PEN[ARTH   MANUSCRIPT   120, 

as  they  differ  in  quality  so  they  were  of  nnequall  qualities  &  con- 
ditions for  such  as  were  bread  in  y^  low  countrey  were  of  a  more 
boisterous  8c  crabbed  nature,  y^  others  of  more  tractable  &  pleasant 
behaviour  .  whereof  a  magisti'ate  having  long  time  governed  both  & 
yielding  up  his  government  to  his  friend  gave  him  this  short  lesson  . 
y*  y"  low  countrey  man  was  to  be  rul'd  with  severity  &  fear  .  y"  other 
with  fair  words  &  good  countenance,  without  which  both  cold  not  be 
kept  in  good  order. 

Then  follow  certain  particulars  about  the  better  tilling  of  the 
mountains,  about  the  marts  of  Llandaph  and  Cardiff,  and  the  boundaries 
of  the  h[undreds  ?]  of  Cardiff,  Dynaspowis,  Cowbridg,  &c.,  &c. 

464  The  rivers  Cornug  and  its  tributaries,  Avan  and  its  tributaries, 
Neath  and  its  tributaries. 

466  Some  particulars  about  JSTeath,  Ynis  avan,  Castell  Gwern,  Bwlch 
y  Gevylchy,  crig  and  mynydd  tor  y  bedol,  Glincorwg,  Baglan,  Aber 
avan,  Britton  fferry.  Coed  ffrank,  Lantwit,  Eysouleu,  Llangattwg, 
Crynant,  Aberpergwm,  Crwmwell's  lordship  belonging  to  y^  abby 
of  Neth,  Kylybebill. 

470  H.  of  Newcastle :  Some  particulars  about  Newton  notagy 
Kynjig,  sccrr  (a  graing  appertaining  to  y"  abby  of  Neath  now  Jenkin 
Turbills  .  .  his  father  purchased  y«  same  of  k.  H.  8  by  means  of 
Sir  Richard  W™'  alias  (Jrvvmwell  whom  he  then  served) ;  (471) 
Mar  gam  with  the  chappells  of  Mayr  o  ben  y  graig,  havod  y  porth,. 
penydd,  &  trissent;  Langonwyd  with  the  chapels  of  Baydan  & 
Ylltid  (at  argoed  avan)  ;  Bettws  Gwayr  with  the  chapel  of  Bettws 
bach  alias  Bettws  Rys  ap  arcn ;  (472)  Lan  sanfred,  Ccyiij,  Coychurch 
(pencoyd,  liendre  bedran,  pen  ypryske&c.  .  .  &  Llanbeder  chapel), 
TSTewcastle  (court  Colman),  (473)  Laleston,  Titbgestrtn  Llandidwg- 
Chorgrove) . 

474  Notes  of  "  such  histories  as  apertain  to  y^  county  of  Glamor- 
gan," with  references  to  some  work  (not  mentioned).  Notes  on  th& 
lordships  of  Lantwyt  or  Boverton,  Coyty,  Neath  and  Swensay. 

476  Meares  between  miskin  Sf  senghenith :  The  highway  com- 
monly call'd  y  lievenffordd  passing  through  y«  forrest  glyn  kynon 
from  a  iford  call'd  Rhyd  y  hyngwm  where  sometime  stood  y'  bridge 
call'd  pont  byngwn  up  to  y^  fayr  tree  &  by  a  chappell  call'd  kyn- 
dynvaen  &  thence  over  Iteven  kolstyn  &  so  to  Castle  y  myhon  & 
thence  to  hwlch  hywvurg  [sic]  &  irom  thence  to  y"  fiord  call'd 
Llechryd  ar  y  nant  liyre  which  severeth  Glam:  &  Brecknock.  Th& 
river  kyuon  &c. 

b.  Meares  between  glamorgan  &  Brecknock. 

478  Sanghenydd  was  sometime  called  y  Clyn  rhedyii 

b.  Dedications  of  churches  in  Glamorgan  in  Landaff  Diocese. 

479  Kelly  Gaer  is  divided  to  V  parts  which  j"  inhaliitants  name 
eavel  viz:  (1)  brithtyr,  (2)  ysgwydd  gwyn,  (3)  Garth  Gynyd,  (4)  y 
keven,  (5)  hengoed.     The  botmdaries  of  the  5  parts  are  given. 

h.  The  sources  and  courses  of  Eompney,  Bargoed  rompney,  Bargoed 
taff,  and  Morleys. 

480  Llangymoyr  with  an  account  of  a  "  great  skirmish  "  between 
the  rnen  of  Glamorgan  and  Breconshire,  and  the  consequent  removal 
of  the  fair  from  "  Wenny." 

b.  Glinogor  "an  impropriation  holden  of  Wenny"  and  5»-y»  y 
xohith  yo  land  and  dwelling  of  gr:  gelhin.     , 


TH£   BRITISH   GENEALOGIST  733 

c.  An  enumeration  of  the  many  tribularies  of  the  two  Ogmoc  rivers. 

481  "Notes  to  be  inserted  in  y«  bopJte  after  the  manner  of'  a 
particidar  or  table,  first  y*  ten  hundreds." 

482  The  parishes  in  every  hundred 

483  A  list,  of  boroughs,  "  lordships  Marchers,"  Parks,  Warrens, 
and  notable  hills. 

484  A.  list  of  Rivers,  bridges,  markets,  castles,  and  houses, 

486  A  list  of  "  Houses  of  religion  sometime  in  Glamorgan  "  (and 
p.  489),  Fishponds,  and  Forests 

487  "Justices  of  Assise  -which  governed  Glamorgan  siscB  it 
became  shyre  ground,"  follo^yed  by  "a  short  catalogue  of  y"  justices 
of  y^  peace,"  and  of  coroners. 

488  A  list  of  Queens  Attourneys,  clerkes  of  the  peace,  Custos 
Eotulorum,  Vales,  Sheriffes. 

490  Gower,  some  notes  thereon,  with  a  list  and  an  account  of  its 
parishes  and  dedications  of  its  churches  ("  in  St.  Davids  Diocese,  co. 
Glam.")  and  a  list  of  its  rivers. 

FEDIGItEES. 

498  HUND:  of  NEATH'-Llangatttrg  :  Dd:  ap  hopkin  &c. 

502  ,,  ,,  Kily  bebill,  Kyi  yr  IIendre,ynis  gyyoniio,. 

503  „  Llangavelacb — Ynisvorgan,  peuyvedw,  kelywry, 
Ynis  dawy,  Ynis  derw,  Tre  wydhva,i  keven  y  clas,  pcnddery,  bach 
y  gwryddyn,  glanllyw,  Llandilo,  gilvach  lydan,  berth  vawr,  maest3r, 
coedtremyg,  blaen  myddvay,  Sciach,  glin  casnod,  Allt  y  vannog  and 
llycharth. 

508  Llanging  :  Kelly  Iwcka,  Coyd  y  gwrid,  kygirwen,  kelly 
gadrog,  dyffrjn  egl,  Blaen  cgl,  y  betting,  allt  grig,  kilymaen,  gelly 
gron,  garth,  and  garn  goch. 

511  Zansamlet  :  Gwern  llwyn  virhith,  Llisnewydd,  garth  hen, 
nant  y  clays,  fforrest  vychan,  Kilvay. 

512  Lanridtan  :  .lo:  dd:  ap  Nicholas  &c. 

b.  Castle  Looker  (and  p.576):  Morgan  dd  ap  'Jeu:  ap  Morgan  &c. 
v/ilh  a  note  on  the  borough  and  its  "  Liberties." 

513  Landilo  verwallt,  kylhay,  bishopston  . 

614  Landilo  talabont  :  Hath  Llodremor,  bolgoed,  Taly  kelyn  llwyn, 
havod  (in  Swensey),  pre.skedwin,  fforest  vychan  (in  Lansuinlet), 
Pant  y  ffa,  Inisloclior,  kwmkynvrad  maes  llj'gadwen  (in  preskid\ven), 
pi  nyrallt,  &c.  • 

517  i  WENffEY  HUNDRED.  Penarth  (with  particulars  of  the  old 
Ciistle  iinii  market  town  '' now  o%'erflowen  with  sand  .  .  .  scarce  some 
part  of  y*"  [chinch]  walls  may  now  be  seen  "). 

al8  Ecssilly,  Nicolaston,  goedtre,  osmugh,  Landewy,  bishopslon. 


523  Notes  on  Gower  which  had  a  "general  government  within  itself 
by  magistrates  .  .  .  &  two  yearly  officers  called  coroners"  prior  to- 
its  annexation  to  Glamorgan. 

The  British  Genealogist. 

524  -Golden  Grove:  Gwaethvoed  .prince  of  Cardigan  &c. 
b.  Muddlescombe  :   Cadifor  vawr  of  blaen  kych  &c. 

525  „  Phillip  Mansfield  or  Mansell  &c. 

b.  Aberglasney :  William  Eudd  Lord  of  Meatli  in  Ireland  &e. 


736  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   120. 

526  Treventy  .•  Stephen  Perrot. 

b.  Newton    or   Dinefwr :  Urien    Rheged    king    of  Rheged    in 
Scotland  Lord  of  Iskennen  &c. 

527  Abermarlais :  Thomas  Griffith  Nicholas  &c. 

b.  Taliaris :  S"'  Rice  ap  Thomas  k'  &c. 

c.  Derwydd:  Tho:  vaughan  ap  Tho:   of  Llangathen  &c. 

528  Laugharn  .-  Simon  stockett  of  Bradstead  Ac. 
b.  Fforrest  Glin  Cothy :  Gwryad  ap  Elider 

529  Llechdo7my :  Thomas  Griffith  alias  Fitzjrien  &c. 
b.  Castle  Piggin :  John  Fleming 

530  Tregybe:  Phillip  ap  Elider  &c. 

b.  Green  meadow :  David  ap  S"^  Rees  ap  Thomas  &c. 

c.  Pentre  in  Llangathen  :  8^  Rice  ap  Thomas  kt.  Sec. 

d.  Hawkes  brooks  :  Rees  Prydderch  &c. 

e.  Llandilovawr :  Rees  Gwillim  Phillip  &c. 

531  Glandiwely :  D.  ILewelyn  ap  Glm  ILoyd  of  Castle  Ho:  &c. 

b.  Llether  JLesty :  Gl'm  Vaughan  ap  Gl'm  Ph:  of  L.  Dilo  vawr 

c.  Dole  Cothy  :  Randolph  Meschines  y«  first  E,  of  Carlisle  &c. 

532  Tauley  :  W.   de  Warren ;  536,  Thomas  Williams  &c. 

b.  Ystradey :  Tho  :  Chicheley  of  Higham  ferreys  &c. 

c.  Beicley  and  Aber  Cover  :  Saucio  Ramiro  k.  of  Arragon. 

533  Iscoed :  Thomas  Sutton  m'^  d.  to  S""  Rice  ap  Tho:  &c. 

b.  Gelligadrog :  Cyhylyn  fardh  prince  of  Difet  &c. 

c.  Allt  y  cadno :  Jenkin  Lloyd  of  Cemeys  <fec. 

d.  Glin :  Robert  ap  Griffith  &c. 

534  Rhyd  y  Gorse  (n""  Carm-)  :  Walter  winter  came  to  Liang  aing 
with  Roger  de  Belesmo  earl  of  Montgomery  in  y^  4*^  year  of  W.  Rufus. 

b.  Pyoden  .•  Ow:  ap  Gr Wm:  Gwin  of  Pyoden  &c. 

c.  Doleliaydh :  Jenkin  ILoyd  of  Cemeys  &c.  .  .  .  Tho:  Havard 

of  Dolehayd  &c. 
536  Pengwern  in  Cenarlh  :  Jen:  Lloyd  of  Cemeys  &c. 
b.  Rhydodin  :  Aelured  k.  of  kyrien  in  Ireland  .  .  .  Rees  IV'ms. 

536  Dan  yr  Allt :  Ll'n  Phillip  of  Rhydodin  .  .  ,  Francis  Lloyd 

of  D.  yr  Allt  &c. 

b.  Abergorlech  :  Morgan  gwal  y  cu  &c. 

c.  Aberdyar:  John  ap  Rees  ap  Morgan  of  Gwal  y  cu  &c. 

d.  Mwdhvey :  Gr:  ap  Gwrgenay  ap  Mabron. 

537  Ystrad  wrallt :  David  hir  base  son  to  Morgan  G.  y  cu  &c. 

b.  Kylsant  .  Bledri  ap  Cadifor  vawr. 

c.  Rwyth  vawr :  S'  Thomas  Phillips  &c. 

d.  Rushy  moore :  Tho'  PhiUipps  of  Rush  moore. 
c.   Coedgaing  in  Llangwnnwr  :  Tho'  Phillips. 

538  Llwin  yfedw  :  Wm:  PhiUipps  married  daughter  to  Jenkin 

Lloyd  of  LI.  vechan. 

b.  Hownsbrooke  :  Phillip  vaughan  .  .  .  Ja'  Phillips. 

c.  Llan  Lhawdog :  John  Lloyd  &c. 

d.  Trevynis :  Lewis  Richard. 

e.  Glan  bran:  Avallwch  son  to  Corinog  k.  of  Dublin  .  .  D.  Gwin 

539  Ystrad  Walter:  Rhydd:  ap  Rees. 

b.   Cynghor  dy :  Cradoc  Vraychvras  ....  Tho;  Gwin  &c. 

540  Givempa  or  wenpanl :  Morgan  vwynvawr  ...  J.  Gwin  &c. 
b.   Trwm  saram :  Gr:  Ll'en  ap  Gwrgan  .  .  .  Wm:  vaughan  &c. 

541  Llanelly :  Ho:  ap  'jevan  ....  John  Vaughan  &c. 

b.  Peebwr:  Cadwgan  vawr  .   .  .  Gr:  Gethin  al's  donne  .... 

John  Don  Lee  &c. 

c.  Coed  y  Garth :  Seliffe  L*  of  Comot  ....  Henry  Harries. 

d.  Llanstephan  house :  Roderikc  y"  great  .  .  .  Morris  Lloyd  &c. 


THE   BRITISH   GENEALOGIST.  737 

542  The  Lakes ;  Gr:  white  of  Henlan Daniel  Lloyd  &c. 

b.  ILanwrda :  Gwin  ap  Aulaf  or  Aylaw  &c. 

c.  Coedgaing  :  Gr:  ychan  L*  of  Caio  &  Cilycwm  .  .  .  W.  Ph: 

d.  Pen  y  Caire  :  Gr:  Lord  of  Caio  &c. 

543  Pen  JLivyn  Gwin  Sf  Tyarycoed :  S''  Wm:  Vaughan  Tyarycoed 

....  Christmas  Vaughaa  of  Fen  Llwyu  Gwin. 

b.  Place  Gwin  :  John  Vaughan  &c. 

c.  Court  Henry :  S^  Rich''  Herbert  of  Colebrook. 

d.  Bettws :  Gwillim  vychan  ....  Dd:  Gwillim  of  Bettws  &c. 

e.  Court  Kydryn  :  Owen  y"  son  of  Ho:  Dha  .  .  .  Dd:  Penry  of 

Court  of  kydyrn  &c. 

544  Clynfyw  :  Dd:  Lloyd  &c.    Cp.  p.  557,6.  below. 

b.  ffrood :  Grono  L*"  of  Iskennen  .  .  .  John  Lloyd  of  ffrood  &c. 
e.  Llwyn  J. — S"^  .J.  Fleming  one  of  E.  ffitz  Hammon's  12  knights  &c. 

d.  Pant  y  Wenallt  in  Meydrim :  Cadwgan   ap  Ehstan 

John  ILoyd  m^  d.  to  Evan  Thomas  of  Tremolett. 

545  Brin  Havod :  Elider  Goch  ....  Thomas  Williams. 

b.  Cil  y  Maen  Llwyd :  Tho:  D.  Gr:  ap  Gron  Goch    .  .  J.  Ll'd. 

c.  Gelly  dywyll :  Ow:  Brad  wen  ....  James  Lewis  &c. 

546  Lleesneioydh  :  Gwillim  Goch  ....  John  Lewis  &c. 

b.  Aber  Cothy  :  Maynarch  L<'  of  Brecknock  .  .  J.  W'ms  &c. 

c.  Derllysk :  James  Prytheroe  of  Hawkesbrooke  &c. 

d.  Porthivryd  or    Berllan  dywyll :  Cadivor  ap  Dynawol    .  .  . 

Dd:  Lloyd  &c. 

547  Gwern  Mackwy :  Ll'n  Lloyd  of  Castle  Ho:  .  .  J.  Lloyd  &c. 

b.  Ctimi  y  Crige  :  J)^  Lloyd  Ll'n  ap  Glm  .  .  .  .  J°.  Phillips 

c.  Pant  Cylgane :  J.  Lloyd  ap  Gr:  .  .  J.  LW  of  P.  Gilgane  &c. 

548  Pemhrey  :  Maynerch  L'^  of  Brecknock  .  .  Walter  Vaughan  &c. 
b.  Pen  y  Banke :  J.  Butler  .  . .  Edw:  Vaughan  of  P.  y  Banke  &c. 

549  Llanstephan  Towne :  D.  Gr:  of  Llangathen  .  .  .  D'  Lloyd  &c. 

b.  Llanarth  Bledri :    Mred:    ap  Rydderch  L^  of  Gwinfai  &c. 

c.  JFurnace  :  Trahaern  Morgan  of  Muddlescombe  .  .  Grinday  &c. 
560   Castle  Llwyd:  Ralph  L'*  Mortimer  &c. 

b.  Abergwilly  and  Baily  viccar :  Gwrgeney  ap  Idnerth  .  .  . 

Dd:  Morgan  &c. 

c.  Cydwely  :  Gr;  Donne  &c. 

d.  Ceven  Triscoed :  Morgan  Awbrey  of  Aber  Cynvrig. 

551  Coed  Wgan  .  Jenkin  ap  R.  of  Glin  neadh  .  .  Henry  Bidder  &c. 

b.  Ystrad  (juxta  Carm)  :  Mor:  O.Bp.  of  ILdaffe  ...  J.  Wms.  &c. 

c.  Upper  Pen  y  Banke  :  John  Bloome  &c. 

d.  Pendine :  Stephen  Barrett  &c. 

552  Clygyn .   Gwrgeny  ap  Idnerth  &c. 
b.  Carmarthen  :  Nicholas  Phillip  &c. 

The  British  Genealogist : — F«  ////  Book: 
Ofy^  Gentry  of  Peubrockshire. 

553  Picton ;  Gwgan  ap  Bleddyn  ....  Catherine  m**  Ow:  Donne  &c. 

b.  Prendergast :  Ralph  Stepneth  first  L*  of  Aldenham  &c. 

c.  Orealton :  Hova   ap   Kynddelw    ....    George   Wiriot  &c. 

554  Stackpool :  Wm:  Lortt  &c. 

b.   ffiston ;  Sir   Walter  Hereford  kt Syr  Matt:  Wgan  <%c. 

555  Sto)ie  Hall:  Ll'n  ap  Owen  .  .  .  Wm  .  Phillips  of  S.  Hall  &c. 

b.  Neaverne  :  Sr  Ja^  Bowen  of  Pentre  if Perrot  Bowen  &c. 

c.  Nash :  Watkin  Vaughan  ....  John  Phillips  of  Nash 

d.  Pont  Gynan  :  Mathias  ap  S"^  James  Bowen 

556  Norchard :  Rob:  Walsh filarichurch  &c. 


738  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   120. 

b.  Glanduad :  Ll'n  ap  Ow:  of  Coed  in  kemeys  ...  J.  Bowen&c; 

c.  Glandyvan :  Gerald  de  Wvndstor  .  .  .  .  W.  Vaughan  he. 

557  Sellyham:  S''  Dd;  Gam  . ".  .  .  The:  Tucker  of  S.  &e. 

b.  Klynfijw  :  Ho:  ap  Jenk:    Lloyd  ...  Jo:  Thorn:  Lloyd  &c. 

c.  Boulton  Hill :  Ow:  Ph:  of  Kylsant  .  .  Margt    Ph:    md   Ph: 

Bolton  &c. 

d.  Neei^ton  :  Mred:  ap  Bleddyn  ....  Barrett  Bowen  &c. 

558  Coiirt :  S""  John  Bellesgaw  k* Owen  ffoord. 

b.   Crabhole  Sf  Tembie  :  Watkin  V'n  .  .  .  Tho:  Locher  of  Temby  &c. 

559  Penallt  y  Llyn .  Ho:  Vychan  .  .      .  .  John  Lloyd 

b.  Dydivall:  Wm:  Tankard  &c.. 

c.  Wesijield:  Jeuan  Lloyd Wm:  Davies  of  VV.  &c. 

d.  Tregamon  :  Howel  younge  &'c. 

560  LiidcJmreh  :  J.  dhy  of  keven^arthvreny  .  .  .  Francis  Davies  &o. 

b.  Grove  ^  Morvill :  Gl'ni  ap  Rys  Ll'n  ap  Ow:    ....     Tho: 

Lloyd  of  Morvill  &c. 

c.  Roblinstone  S)-    fVooldale :  Bleddyn  ap  kynfyu    .    .    .    Wm': 

Roblin  of  R John  Bowen  of  Wooldale. 

561  Prichardston :  Mred:  Donne  ....  John  Lort  of  P. 

b.  Henllan  :  Jasper  le  White  &c. 

c.  St.  Dogmaels  :  GefFrey  Clement  Talyllyn  ....    Tho:  Parry. 

562  Llanstynan  :  Jenkiu  Lloyd  &c. 

b.    Tregwynt :  S''  Walter  Harford  ....  Tlio:  Wm  of  T.  &c. 

563  Melyne   S/-    Whitchurch:    Gl'm    ap    Gwwared    .  .    .    .    Jas. 

Lewis  of  Melyne  &c.  .      .      .        ■ 

b.  Pen  y  Benglog  :  Jenkin  Ll'd  of  kemej-s  .  .    .  W.  Griffies  &c. 

564  Pafhey  pratte :  Rees  IL'n  of  ILystyn  ...  .  Nicholas  Davies 

■  b.   Trevygyn  :  Dd:  Voel  of  keraeys'.  ...  Alban  Lloyd  of  T.  &c. 

c.  Coiildey  Island:  Cad\vg  ap  Gr:  .  .  .  Reeve  Wnis.  of  C.  &c. 

d.  Brodc.y  :  Wm:  Wgan      .   .  .   Rich:  Johues  of  Brodey  &c. 

565  WiUbedge  :  AVm:  JPilbatch  &c. 

b.    Trevach  :  Sir  Guy  de  Brj'an  ...  John  Lloyd  of  Trevach. 

566  Cryswyll :  John  Barlow  &c. 

b.  Wm:  de  Andeledge  1^1  6f  Heling  Castle  -;.'..  Sampson  lort  &c. 
5G7   Treconne  :  Gwgan  ap  Bleddyn  .  .   .  Owen  Jolines  of  T.  &c. 
b.  Nashe  :  Roger  son  to  Corbstt  of  ttioreton  &c. 

568  Pentre  Jevan  :  Ll'n  ap  Owen  .  '.  .  Tho:  Ph:  cf  P.  ").  &c. 

b.  Richarston   Sf    Scotchborough :  Martinus    Turensis    .... 

Ph:  Martyn  of  R.  &c. 

c.  Moate :  Clouis  y">  great  .  .  .  .  John  Scourfield  &c. 

569  Kylyetty  :  Adam  Lloyd  of  Llwyn  Davydh  &c. 

b.  Pentre-   or  Penty-park  :  Thoi  father  to  Syr  Rys  ap  T.  .   .  . 
Jas.  Philipes  of  Pentre-park  &c. 

570  St.  Brides  :  S''  Tho:  Wgan  ....  Rowland  Laugharne  &c. 

b.  Haroldston  :  Gl'm  ap  Gwrwared  ....  Herbert  Perro. 

c.  hoed  Gant  Layes :  S""  W.  de-Londres  .  ,  .  .   S'  J.  Butler  &c. 

571  Carew  Castle:  Roger  de  Montgomery    ....   Arnulph  4th. 

son  .  .  baron  of  Carew  &c. 
b.   Trefgarne  :  Cradock  Vraychvras  ....  Owen  Edwards  &c. 

572  Greenhiil:  S'"  Wm:  Cantiugton  . '.  .  .  Tho;  Powell  of  G, 

b,  Cwmgloin :  Edward  Read  .  ...  John  Lloyd. 

c.  Narbcrth  8f  Eareweare :  SrWm:  Marios  or  Merlow  .... 

Jo:  Elliot  of  Eareweare  &c. 

573  Boniillscourt :  Gr:  ap  Eees  ....  Wm:  Johnes  of  B. 

b.  Pater-  or  Patrick-church  :  S''  Jd°  Aynford  ....  W.  Adam  &'c. 

c.  Treicearne  :  Dd:  voel  of  kemeys  ....  Wm :  Waj-ing. 

d.  Henllys :  Lucas  (?  Robt)  de  Hoda  .  .  .  Wm:  Owens. 


..     THE   BRITISH   GENEALOGIST.  739 

574  Boulston  :  Ada  dyer  ....  Lewis  Wgau. 

b.   Tre  r  ILwyn :  Kyhylyn  vardh  ....  Tho:  Bowen. 

575  Upton:  Gr:  ap  Nicholas  ...  .  Hugh  Bowen. 

b.  Slebbedge .  Watkin  Vaughan  ....  John  Barlow. 

c.  Lhvyngwayr  :  Ph:  Vyclian  of  Tyleglas  .  .      .  James  Bowen. 

576  Monckton  :  kydavel  ynnyd  L^^  of  kydewen  .   .  Essex  Meurick 
b.  Hum-  or  Gum-freston :  lor:  l"!  of  krygheath  .      .  John  Wms. 

577  Dotnple  Dale  :  Jenkin  Clement  1'^  of  Caron  ...    .  T.  Jordan. 

b.  Berllan  :  Eees  ap  Bydd}  ....  Wm:  Owens  D.D. 

c.  Penhellyvach  :  Woodlocke  1'^  of  Gumfreston  .  .      .J.  YouDge. 

d.  Tredeved :  Sawl  or  Goshawl  ....  John  Parry  &c. 

The  Fifth  Book—of  the  Gentry  of  Cardigan: 

578  Gogerthan  or  Gogarthan  .  Clodhien  .  .  lord  of  Dryslwyn  .  .  . 

S"^  Eic:  Price. 
b.   Tratvscoed  :  Collwyn  ap  Tangno  .  .  .  Edw:  Vaughan. 

579  Llan  lleyr :  Gr:  ap  Nicholas  .  .  .  Tho^  Lloyd  &c. 

b.  Llanvred :  Einn  ap  Gr:  of  ynysymangwyn  ....  Tho:  Price. 

c.  Ystradflyr :  Galearbus  a  Duke  of  Arabia  .  .  .  Jno;  Stedman. 

580  Maesyvelyn  :  Cadifor  ....  Lucius  Lloyd. 

b.  Llanvaircledogey:  Gr:  Voel  1^  of  C.  Odwyn  .  .  .  Walter  Ll'd  &c- 

c.  Ahernant  Byclian  ^  Coedtnaior :  O.  ap  Bradwen  .  .  J.  Lewis. 
£81  Noyadh  alias  Drevawr  :  Cadwgan  of  Carrog  .   .   .  Dd:  Parry. 

b.  Tregibbi  and  y^  Priory  of  Cardigan.  S''  Tho:  Ph:    .... 

James  phillips. 

c.  Carrog  :  Blegwryd  ap  Dynawal  .  ,  .  ,  Reinold  Jenkins. 

d.  Gylvachuen  Sr   Kylgicyn :   Tydor,  Trevor   E.    of    Hereford 

....  Tho:  Lloyd. 
582  Havced  ychdryd :  Tho:  Powell  ychan  of  pantstrymon  .... 
Morg:  Herbert. 

b.  Vairdreffe :  Eudd3  ap  Tewdwr  ....  John  Lloyd. 

c.  Geyrnos  :  Dd:  Thomas  ....  John  Lewis. 
58.3  Wueshelygge  :  Ll'n  voel  ....  Morgan  ILoyd. 

b.  Dyffryn  llynod  :  Dd:  Ll'n  ap  Gl'm  Lloyd  of  Castell  Ho:  .... 

The:  Jenkins.  . 

c.  Crunfryn  :  Dd:  vongham  of  Cayo  ...  .  .  Dd:  ILoyd. 

d.  Mynydh  Ho: — R.  ap  Rudd5  Id  of  C.  Ho:  ....  ffrancis  ILoyd. 
584  ILwyd  Jack  :  Bleddyn  ap  Dynwal  ....  John  ILoyd. 

b.  Cwmowen  ^-  Glasgryge:  Henry  Gwyn  .  .  .  John  Le^vis  of  G. 

c.  Pembryn  ^  Towyn :  Einon  vawr  ....  Eich:  Vaughan 

d.  Pantyrodin  :  Dd;  Ll'n  ap  Gl'm  Lloyd  ....  Nicholas  Lewis 

e.  Rhoskellan  :  Eees  Mred:  1*  of  Towyn  ....  Dd:  Vaughan. 
/.  Bronwydh:  jf.  Ph:   ap  Eudd}    .  .  .    Tho:  Lloyd  infans  1693. 

-586  TLanvechan:  .Jenkin  ap  Eees  of  G.  wen  ....  Jenk:  ILoyd. 

b.  Was  y  bleythyed :  Ow:  Gwynedh   ....  John  ILoyd. 

c.  Rhytcarthen  :  Roderick  y^  Great  .      .  Tho:  ILoyd.  Cp.  541d  above 

587  Glanllery :  (ir:  ap  Gwenwynwyn  ....  Moris  vaughan. 

b.  Crygbychan:  Ll'n  vychan  ....  George  Bowen. 

c.  Gwastad  gwrda  :  ^eu:  Lloyd  ....  Dd:  ILoyd. 

d.  TLwyndaiiydh :  Rees  Gr:  ap  Eees  ....  Tho:  Lewis. 

e.  Gellyfrayth:  ^euan  Lloyd  ....  Thomas  Philips. 

588  Nante :  feu:  Lloyd  ....  Eees  Lewis  of  Nante. 
b.  l.lwyndyris :  Sir  Walter  Byrt  &c. 

,   c.  Rhandyr  :  Ow:  ap  Ho:  dha Gl'm  ap  Rees. 

d.  Dynas  kerdyn  :  Morydh  king  of  Cardigan  830  .  .  .  Dd:  Lewis. 

589  VaylaUt ;  Gr;  1*  of  Llansadwrn  ....  John  Wms. 


740  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   120-121. 

b.  Y  Wern  newydd :  Rees  Voel  .  .  .  Dd:  ILoyd 

c.  Uch  Aijron  :  Predyr  berswydh  l"!  of  Card:  .  .  .  Stepli:  Parr}' 

d.  Talysarn:  ^eu:  Philip  ....  John  Evans. 

e.  Doletvolfe :  Gl'm  Lloyd  ....  Dd:  Jenkin. 


591  /  Dydyr  np  Jorwerth  Sais 

Medliylio  yr  wyv  mae  dholyr     ....  a 

a  thro  tra  vynych  a  thrig  Jihis  ap  dd:  goch 

592  J  veyrig  vychan  a  Dd:  ap  Meurig  o  Nannau 

Mawr  yy  Howel  ap  meirig     ....  b 

Aed  i  varw  i  dre  veirig  Gytto'r  Glynn 

593  jf  Benno :  Teg  iw  synwyr  blinlwyr  blaid     ....  c 

Amen  a  fFand  yno  i  may  Rys  Goch  or  Yri 

595  f  Tydecho :  Mae  gwr  Ihwyd  yma  gar  Ihaw     ....  d 

I  dychan  at  dydecho.  Dd:  Lhwyd 

596  7  Gynkaval  sunt :  T  keidwad  rhag  gwaew  adwyth  ....       e 

Am  rhoi  wedi  ymbaradwys       Gr:  ap   Evan  ap  IL'n  Va'n 

b.  J  Sunt  katrin  .   Kerdh'r  ffordh  rhwydh  o  wreidhin  ...  / 

Ith  berson  iach  from  galon  rhwydha  S.  ap  Ho:  ap  it.  vy'n. 

597  Mar:  Gicervyl  mam  Ho:  vah  Rhys  o  Ryg 

Mis  drvvg  a  vy  ym  howys  draw     ....  g 

A  lanwed  a  haelioni  Gytto'r  Glynn 

598  Y  medhdod :  Nid  dwrdiaw  Ihe  daw  Ihiw  dydh     ....      h 

A  vydh  ir  sawl  a  vedhwo  Lewis  Glyn  Kothi 

i.  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  Ho:  o  Ryg 

dyw  gwyn  er  digio  enyd     ....  i 

wnaed  dyw  ag  enaid  Hywel  Tydyr  Aled 

599  Jr  gwiwerod  o  goed  Marchan 

Blin  ag  avrwydh  yw  r  gyvraeth     ....  k 

Oni  chair  glo  iachein  gwlad  Robt:  klidro 

b.   TVrth  fynd  ty  a  Ihtjndain : 

Ynghaer  ei  bwrias  yn  yngbo     ....  / 

I  Baradwys  yn  Brydydh  Gytts  Grydh 

600  7  Wervyl  Vechan :  Kav  wyv  eisie  kael  y  verch     .     ,     .     .  m 

Ar  i  ol  bol  y  bayol  bid  Dd:  Lhwyd 


601  Decumenta  regis  Aluredi,  Tra  -.talus  quidam  (p.  607) 
another  (p.  610),  and  Her  bigynney  .  ye  Stjren  .  't  ye  hundredes  of 
englonde  (p.  613). 

The  above  pages  (601-17)  are  direct  transcripts  fi'om  Jesus  College  MS.  XXIS. 
fols.  262-68. 


MS.  121  =  Hen.  372.  Poetey  and  Prose  fragments.  Paper  ; 
11 1  X  7i  inches;  302  pages  plus  about  90  blank  leaves, — pages  1-195 
are  in  a  somewhat  antique  hand*  which  cannot  be  earlier  than  1611 

*  The  scribe  was  undoubtedly  Richard  ap  John  of  Scorlegan  in  Denbighshire, 
■who  wrote  Pen:  MSS.  159  and  160  in  1578-93.  See,  also,  Shirburn  MS.  E  16  and 
marginalia  in  Cardiff  JIS.  234.'53. 


THE  BOOK  OF  RIG:  AP  JOHN  OF  SCORLEGAN.      741 

(p.  119);  and  the  rest  of  the  MS.  is  in  very  various  liands  ranging 
from  1635  to  1716;  bound  in  leather. 

The  MS.  belonged  to  W.  Humffreyes  ia  1737  (fly  leaf).       See  also  pages  249-53. 
1  Mar:  J.  llwyd  ap  dd:  ap  Mered:  o  Langernyw,  cetat  ^7 

Kwyn  a  wyddoin  kawn  weiddi     ....  a 

aed  i  nef  Iwydwynn  ffan  S^ion  Tudur 

6  Mar:  Sion  Salbri  o  rug :  Beth  a  yrr  ofn  byth  ar  wyr  .   .  .  .     b 
na  da  is  havl  onid  Sion      .  15S0  .  SimwiU  Vychan 

10  Etto :  O  duw  dad  pa  fj^d  ydyw     ....  c 

y  gwelom  bawb  i  gilydd  Sion  Tudur 

13  Mar:  W.  Ph:  o  biktwn :  Beth  trymaf,  ba  waith  tramawr  .  .  .  d 
yn  deilwng  Enaid  Wiliam  .  /  IVm:  lleyn 

16  3far:  Syr  S.  Salbri,  marchog,  siambrlen  gwynedd 

ILeweni  leni  a  las  :  alluawc     ....  e 

Evro  lie  Enaid  :  aer  lleweni  .  Simwnt  Vychan 

19  Etto:  Y  Waned  heb  lawenydd     ....  f 

ffarwel  i  wr  a  ffriw  Ian  Sion  Tudur 

23  Mar:  Simwnt  Thelwal~-" plus  y  ward  heb  plesser  aeth  " 

Ar  dduw  i  mawr  weddiwn     ....  g 

yn  hap  ir  neb  ssy  /  a  /  i  h61 .  15S6  .         Edwart  ap  Raff 

27  Mar:  Syr  Jfan  llwyd  o  Jdl — kwstws  rotwlorwm  .  'I3S6  . 

Krist  ior  kroessa  dy  werin     ....  k 

i  Sion  i  aer  ssy  /  n  /  i  61 .  /  Edwart  ap  Eaff 

31  Etto:  Mae  oer  gri  am  wr  a  grym     .     .     .     ."  i 

gwedi  /  r  /  vstvs  oedd  gadarn  ||  SimimU  vachan 

35  Mar:  Rissiart  a  Siimont  Thelioal 

II  dvvv  a  wyddiad  y  dyddiav  (1.  7)     ...     .  k 

dymvnwn  .  .  .  oes  hir  j  "]  Simwnt  hwnn  sy  yma 
yn  He  /  r  /  Hall  wr  diball  da     ...     . 
ir  rhain  oil  aeth  or  hen  llj^s 

38  Mar:  Catrin  Tudur  gwraig  Edw:Thelwal  .  I59I . 

Gwae  lu  pann  dywyllo  gwlad     ....  I 

At  dvw  ir  nef  Katrin  aeth  Simwni  Vychan 

41  Mar:  Simwnt  Thelival  ai  briod  Margred  .  15§6 

Duw  deyrn  nef  doedran  yw     ....  m 

i  olevni  /r/  ail  Einioes  „  „ 

45  Etto  :  Band  ofer  boenau  deufyd     ....  n 

aent  ir  vn  nef  trown  yw  hoi  Wiliam  Kynwal 

48  Mar:  Edw:  Theluial  aer  Sim:  wyr  Ris't  .  2g  July  l6tO 

Y  kur  i  bawb  yw  kau  /r/  bedd     ....  o> 

oil  i  wyneb  llawenydd  Morys  berwyti 

51  Etto  :  Dyffryn  klwyd  oerwyd  hyd  ]fal :  dy  hollwres  ....  p 

ni  chaf  evrawc  lain  :  yn  iach  fro  glwyd  .         Sion  phylip 

55  Mar:  Edtmcnt  iarll  Ritsmwnt 

Kymry  yn  gaeth  a  aethant    ....  q 

yn  iach  gwngkwerv  gwlad  gymrv  gaeth  L,  glynn  Kothi 

59  Mar:  T.  Salbri  hen  :  Trist  ir  beirdd  y  troes  duw'r  byd  .  .  .  .   r 

Ty  ddvw  sydd  yw  tad  a  Sion  Guttyn  Owain 

60  Mar:  Morys  ap  Sion  ap  Mred: 

Nen  y  ffurfafen  fferf  fawr :  a  syrthiodd     ....  s 

Torres  dvw  /  n  /  vnbraich,  Trawst  a  nenbrenn.     Lewys  mon 


742  PEXIARTH'  MANUSCEIM   121;  ' 

63       Och  dduw  tad  ynad  iawnwys  :  ymerodr  a 

marw  Lisse  amhorys  .  .  .  .  y  klynennatt  -.     .     .     Morys 
wych  amod  iownwaith  :  och  am  danaw- »  /      ap  J,  ap  Ein. 

€7  Mar:  Gr:  ap  Robert  fychan :  ■         . 

Arfon  a  hoU  fon  Eifionydd :  a  ILyn     ....  J 

oeraf  vn  achvvyn  :  Arfon  nyched  Sion  brwynoc 

70  Mar:  Robt:  ap  Gr:  ap  Robert  fychan 

Diben  dirfawr  benn  darfu'r  byd  yn  llwyr     ....  c 

djfn  gwrol  dann  y  gweryd  Morys  ap  feu:  ap  Einion 

73  Mar:  To:  Mostyn  :  Rhodri  mawl"  eni  Molwynoc  ynny  ....     d 
gwae  ni  am  Eodri  y  gwyn  mrodraeth  Sionbrwynoc 

76       Duw  mawr  nef  a  llawr  ef  an  Has  yn  Wwjt    ...  e 

trvan  fv  y  lief  :  trwy  nef  g,  llawr  .  Dd:  nanmor 

78  Mar:  Philpott  ap  Rys — '•'  Gorav  i  gymraec  o  gymrv  oedd." 

Pann  fu  gnulh  ^for  brulhai     ....  f 

Tair  yvr  iw  blant  ai  wyrion  Lewys  glynn  kothi 

80  Mar:  JLywelyn  ap  Gr:  ap  IL'n  a  las  ym  iiellt 

Krist  arglwydd  rhwydd  rhodd  a  archaf    ....  g 

yn  rhanu  trvgaredd  fowredd  fwiaf  Bkddyn  fardd 

81  Mai-:  Nest  v^:  Howel 

Amser  mei  maith  ddydd  nevd  rhydd  rboddi     ,     .     .     .      h 
Ny  bo  didawl  Nest  nef  boed  iddi  /      Einion  ap  gicalclimai 

83  Mar:  Ow:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  IL'n 

Angall  a  ddyall  yddym  yn  daw     ....  i 

hael  fab  rad  i  dad  /  ai  dvg  attaw  Bleddyn  fardd 

84  Madog  ap  Mre.d: — Ar  dwyreaf  deyrn  evrgyrn  addawd  ...       k 

A  chad\Valadr  mawr,  nivr  pob  khvdawd  Gwalchtnai 

85  Mar:  Ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Kynan 

Howel  ddiogel  ddiogan  //  deyrn     .     -     .     .,  I 

Arglwydd  boed  hywydd  howel       llovxirch  prydydd  y  moch 

86  Duw  dy  nawdd  rhac  tawdd  tan  llachar  vfFern  ....         ?n 
gwawr  gwerthfawr  boed  Trvgar  Bleddyn  fardd 

87  Duw  a  ddwg  attaw  bvdd  walaw  byd  ....  n 
He  mae  /r/  mab  ar  tad  ;  ac  tec  ysbryd            ,,            „ 

88  Kyfarchaf  ym  rhi  rhad  obeith     ....  o 
yngolevad  rad  rydid  perfFeith                                 Kynddelio 

89  Gwolychaf  ym  rheu  Eex  awyr     ....  p 
trv  a  nos  :  yd  itb  ladder                               Meilyr  brydydd 

b.  Mar:   Gr:  ap  Kynan 

Rhen  nef  mor  Rhyfedd  i  ryfeddawd     ....  q 

gan  glain  gloyW  add6f  yn  nef  drefred  „  „ 

95  Mar:  Ho:  ap  dd:  ap  Tomas 

Yr  I'.ael  gynt  mewn  rliol  a  gaid     .     .     .     .•  r 

oed  yr  avr  yw  dri  Eryr  L.  glynn  hothi 

99  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Gronioy ,o  faelor 

Wylais  achos  marwolaeth     ....  s 

a  gar  Enaid  mab  Gronwy  „  ,, 

101  Mar:  Ow:  gwynedd :  Ojobaf  i  dduw  ddyfod  i  Laith  ...  t 

difvner  vcher  ac  echwydd  Daniel  ap  JLosgwrn 


I  THE   BOOK   OF   EIC:   AP  JOHN   OF  SCOELEQAN.  743 

103  Mar:  syr  W.  harbart 

Dwyn  syr  water  ner  duw  uuyJ:  roddi  "".     ...  a 

yn  y  maes  i  rhetoch  :  am  syr  water      Jerwerlh  fijnghoyd 

105  Mar:  Syr  Eys  ap  T. — Mae  rhuw  odwrdd  ymrhydain  ...        b 
aros  yr  iavU  wyr  syr  Ilys  Lcwys  morganim-c 

108  Mar:  dd:  ap  gr:  ap  howel  aifab  Sion  Wynn 

Troes  y  byd  trais  heb  oedi     ....  c 

llawn  vdo  j  n  j  ,  .  .  llanfair  .  .  .  dinas  Evddvn 

[="Rhuthyn"]     .  .     . 

Duw  /  n  /  tad  i  dav  Enaid  hwy  .  /  Sim%cnl  vychan 

1 10  Mar:  Roger  llwyd  o  frynn  Tangor  yngwlad  Jal 

Trist  wyf  He  troe.s  duw  ofal     ....  d 

ar  llwyd  aeth  /  ir  He  dethol  „  ., 

113^  Mar:  archiagon  Itaer  fyrddin  oedd  ijn  fario  yni  bias  yn 

llann  ynys  :  Duw  a'n  blinodd  dwyn  blaenawr  .     .     .     .      e 
dewis  wr  dvw  a  ssaeran  /  Syr  Edwart    .... 
rhoi  oes  in  plith  rhossvn  plaid 
a  rhoi  nef  ir  henafiaid  Raff  ap  Robert 

116       ILadd  kyniru  drillu  dryllio  //  mvriav  /  r  /  wal  _/ 

yw  iiiarw  ^arll  o  Beuft'6     ....  Huw 

Haw  ddvw  hwnt  arnom  /  lladdai  /  n  /  teyrnas         arwystwyl 

119  Mar:  Capten  Sion  Salbri  .  1611 . 

lieth  yw  gwr  bath  a  gerir     ....  g 

yngolwg  duw  ai  'ngylion  Jeuan  llwyd  Sieffrey 

125  Kof  Angharad :  Di  dyrr  deivyr  diafael  /  em  drem  ....         h 
gwawn  garedigiawn  /  garw  i  dygiad  Dd:  ap  gicilim 

127  Mar:  Sianhyn  o  dowyn  :  Pwl  yw  kerdd  pob  oferddyn  ...         i 
dyn  afiach  iawn-  dann  faich  wyf 
yn  d'ol  ni  wnn  nad  elwjf  Deio  ap  Jeu:  ddu 

130  Mar:  S.  argl:  powys :  Gwae  wlad  oer  gwilio  derwen  ...  k 

Haw  ddvw  yngod  lladd  angav  .  /  Lewys  man 

132  Mar:  Rys  ap  Kynfric  ap  Rotpert  or  kibm 

Dydd  y  farn  gadarn  heb  g61 / 

kawn  oi  dir  devkan  derwen  , 

134  Mar:  Dd:  Iheyd  o  Aher  tanad :  I  gilio  rhac  i  elyn  ...  m 

trigaredd  ir  tri  gorav  GiUto  or  giynn 

136  3Iar:  IVn  moel :  Mae  arch  yu  ystrad  Marchell  ....  n 

yr  wyl  a  nef  yw  i  rodd  ./  „  ,, 

139  Mar:  Einion  ap  gr:  ap  Rys 

Dwfr  olwenn  doe  fu'r  wylaw     .  ■  .     .     .  .•  o 

fv  Einion  nef  yw  Enaid  ./  „  „ 

141       Dawns  o  bowls  doe  'n  ysbeliwyd     ....  n 

Jarll  oi  fab  arall  a  f o  ,  /  „ 

143  J/aJV  Jrf.- «/> /jojoe^  .•  Briwodd  y  tir  breuddwyd  dig  ...  q 

yno  /  i  /  tyf  Enaid  dafydd  .  /  Tudur  Aled 

145  Mar:  S.  Eos:  Drwg  i  neb  a  flrigo  'n  51     .     .     .     .  r 

Oes  yn  Nvw  i  Sion  Eos.  Dd:  ap  Edmwnt 

148  Mar:  Robert  ap  huw  or  kreuddyn 

Oes  kur  am  \vr  nis  kair  niwy     ....  g 

da  rann  fo  dvw  ir  Enaid  .  /  Anon 


744  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   121. 

151       Trwm  ar  ia  jw  tramwy  /r/  6d     .     .     .     .  a 

y  trig  addysc  tragwyddawl.  Wiliam  TLyn 

154  Mar:  Mred:  ap  Tudur  ap  Howel 

Dyn  wyf  yn  dilyn  un  fann     ....  h 

yn  Uys  duw  mae  /  n  /  well  i  stad  Tudur  Penllyn 

1 56  Mar:  Ho:  ap  Hianliyn  :  ILwyn  oedd  y  mewn  lie  nev  ddau  .  .  c 

fyth  haiach  o  fatli  Howel  Tudur  Aled 

158  Mar:  Jeu:  ap  Ho: — Pa  wlad  y  sy  plaid  a  sai     .     .     .     .        d 

mal  i  nef  ymlaen  ']1^xl  Anon 

160  Mar:  Tudur  llwyd  o  Jal :  Torred  y  rhif  troed  y  rliain  .  .      e 
Haw  grist  a  laddodd  holl  gred  .  Sion  ap  howel 

163  Mar:  plant  y  bardd :  Wrth  edrych  galarnych  gael     .     .     .     j 
o  natvr  fy  nwyn  attynn  Gwilim  ap  Sefnyn 

165  Mar:  Syr  Rys  Jfank :  An  ami  y  chwardd  bardd  barwn  g 

anhyfryd  y  w  /  r  /  henfyd  hwnn     .... 
ni  rydech  gynt  ar  adwy  gr:  llwyd  ap  dd:  kamlan 

167  Mar:  Rys  ap  S.  a  lynn  Nedd 

Vn  eisiau  golau  rhac  galon  :  y  sydd     ....  h 

weithian  oi  eissiav  aeth  yn  issaf  Jerwerth fynglwyd 

169  Mar:  iarll  penfro :  Poen  y w  adfyd  penydfawr     ....       i 
ai  fab  yn  ^arll  fo  byw  /  n  J  vfr  Wiliam  JLyn 

172  Mar:  Roger  Pilstwn  .   Hiid  yw  r  byd  kwrs  enbyd  son  ...       k 
dy  ras  i  Enaid  roessier     .  ISSl  .  Simvont fychan 

175  Mar:  dd:  llwyd  o  aber  tanad  a  Reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn 

Deu^vr  hwnt  fal  blodau  rhos  &c.     (14  11.  only)    T''  Penllyn   I 

176  (as  da  abucheddol  i  byddwn  buw     ....  tn 
dod  ysbryd  in  ledio  i  wlad  tyrnas  ne.)                        Anon 

178  Mar:  T.  ap  Rob:  oferain:  Daw  bu  arwydd  doe  bwriai  ...     n 
dvw  /n/  tad  i  Enaid  Tvdvr  .  Simwnt fychan 

180  Mar:  Robt:  Wynn  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Mred :  o  frynkyr 

Bro  aeth  ar  ball  brith  y w  /  r  /  byd     ....  o 

ir  bywyd  bir  robert  wynn   .  1565   .  „  „ 

183  Mar:  Jthel  brydydd :  Dihir  i  fro  feilir  frycb     ....        p 
ethol  o  dduw  ^thel  ddv     .... 
i  grefydd  korff  ddigrifacli  Anon  [?  Jolo  gocK\ 

186  Mar:  Sion  Thehoal  hen  o  Lan  rhudd 

Gwlad  0  gwymp  golvdawe  wr     .    .     .     .  q 

doe  rhoed  ....  dyrnod  gordd  ar  langfforddlwyth    ,  .  .  . 
oes  hir  a  gwlad  nef  i  Sion  Simtvnt  vychan 

188  Mar:  S.  ap  R.  Wynn  offynnogion — JL.  Sannan 

Mae  /  r  /  ia  /  n  /  gaeth  ymronnav  gwyr     ....  r 

i  Enaid  Sion  /  eto  sydd  .   15^2  .  „  „ 

191  Mar:  Robt:  Wynn  ap  Cadwaladr  .  .  o  farchweithian 

Duw  gwynn  ai  digio  ennyd     ....  * 

Enaid  Rhobert  heb  vn  trwbl  .  „  „ 

194  Mar:  Jarll  haer  wrangon :  Duw  gadarn  ai  die  ydwyd  .  .        t 
evrlliw  ddvg  o  ^arll  y  ddol  lewys  morgannwc 


PENIARTH   MANUSCEIfT   121.  745 

196  Mar:  Edw:  Wynne  o  JL.  ganhaval .  ^  April  1633  .  j^tat  65  . 

Erchyll  yw  /  r  /  bjd  serfyll  sal     ...     .  a 

hir  oes  iach  /  r  /  rhai  sy  iw  ol .  /  Harrij  Howell 

198  Mar:  Edw:  Wynne  o  IL.  ganhaval  21  gorffena  l6/f2 

ai  oed  ynte  40  .-  ILanganhafal  ddyfal  ddawn     ....         b 
wynn  yn  gryf  mewn  euwog  ras  „  „ 

201   Cyngor  ir  Cymru  gwedi  i  brintio  yn  Rhydychen  .  1 63S  . 

Y  Cymro  cariadus  pen  hSnwaed  yr  yuys     ....  c 

Amen  drwy  yn  gvveddi  yu  dragwyddawl       Mathew  Owen 

203  Mar:  Gras  Wynn  0  Langanhafal 

Rhw  lij'd  a  red  rhod  yr  oes     ....  d 

ir  rhai  sy  yw  I16I  hir  oes  iach  A7ion 

205       Ty  di  fy  mhocced  glad  glos     ....  e 

y  bar  both  dy  bur  boethi 
Atteb  y  Bocced :  Taw  di  ddyn  tew  di    ddenydd  ....  / 

o  mewn  a  gei  mwy  nag  wedd  »  *  *  *  ap  Richard 

209  Duw  mawr  madde  i  mi  pechadur  &c.  Anon  g 

b.  Os  i  wreicaf  ir  af  mae  rwyd  &c.  Simwnt  Vaughan  h 

c.  Gweled  ei  mwyned  mewn  menig  duon  &c.     S^  Wm:  Powell   i 

210  Sir  Von  wenn  os  rhifwn  -wjr     ....  k 
pe  rhoid  hwy  pared  yw  hon                             Gr:  Hiraelhog 

213       Gynt  yr  eedd  gnott  ar  addysc  gwr  doeth  yn  egori  dysc 

Mawr  Boet  .  .  Martial  .  .  dug  .  .  deubeth  ar  bymthe  c         ol 
Helaith  ddamweiniol  olud     ....  I 

y  diweddaf  on  dyddiau  simwnt  Vaughan 

214  Na  fydd  segur  .  na  char  ferched     ....  m 
a  yrr  dy  bwrs  heb  geiniog  yntho                                  Anon 

b.       Criwn  a  beichiwn  am  becbu  er  moed  &c.  „       n 

215  Caericys  Eisteddvod 20  .  Mai  .  -1561  :  A  list  of  the  gentlemen 
before  whom  it  was  held,  and  of  those  who  graduated  in  poetry  and 
in  instrumental  music. 

217       Rag  tecced  yw  dy  freiohiau  gwnnion     ....  0 

yn  dda  dy  le,  ag  yn  ddu  dy  Lewis  Anon 

219  y  eglwys  ILansiliti :  Awn  iw  byrth  a'u  haberthau 

gwedd  dduwiol     ....  p 

i'th  wledd  jach  Arglwydd  ion  3Iathew  Owen 

b.       Doe  yn  treisio  dyn  trawsedd  cas  oeiddit     ....  q 

cadw  r  gair  cei  di'r  goron  Hugh  Morris 

221  Mar:  William  ap  Evan  Lloyd  or  Maerdy 

Hudoliaeth  yw  hyd  elawr     ....  r 

y  delo  enaid  William  Morys  Berwyn 

223      T  Cynnes  Haul  Canniad  o  degwch  bendigaid  ....  s 

dos  dithe  ith  ucheledd  orchwylwaith  Anon 

225  Y  Carw  Ifanc  arafwych     ....  t 
Croch  dwrw  'n  cyrchu  aderyn                             Slon  Tudyr 

226  Y  cwmni  cariadis  glan  dawnus  a  da     ...     .  u 
fe'n  dwg  i'r  wlad  reiol  dduw  nefol  yn  61         Tho:  Davies 

228       Y  fun  bach  a  fynn  ei  bod     ....  ■;; 

gwawr  degwch  garn  digon  Tudur  Alcd 

230       He  that  ownes  wiih  his  heart  &  helps  with  his  haud  tti 

The  Church  that's  estabhshed  by  the  Law  of  the  Land  &c,  IJOS 
y  P8430.  J   p 


746  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   121. 

b.  Oi  galon  a  garo  'r  Ian  eglwys  drwy  fraw  &c.  ■  a 

c.  Yr  Eglwys  l&n  oreuglod  ya  gadam  &c.  J 

d.  A  riddle :  A  gratioiis  mother  once  I  knew  &c.  c 
231       Good  Halifax  and  Pious  Wharton  Cry                                   d 

The  Church  hath  vapours,  butt  noe  danger  ny  &c.    ^705 
282       Duw  cyanal  f'enaid  rhag  y  ceunant  &c.         I>d:  Nanmor  e 

b.  Na  werth  hwyl  brydferth  haela  bro  Nefoedd  ....  / 

dan  law  dyw  dyna  le  da  „  „ 

c.  fr  Cyfion  gwirion  mae  gwared  yn  Nyw  &c.  Ation  q 
234       Gwrandewch  ar  benhillion  a  geisies  i  yn  guson  ...  A 

Tn  gnawdol  ansittiol  i  sattan  John  Richard 

236  Ache  jr  /  Ctvrw  :  Ei  Dad  ef  oedd  y  bregyn  moeJ  &c.  &c,  i 

239  J  ofyn  Cafn  pysgoUa  tros  Harry  bynner  i  N.  Morrys 

Nathaniel  anoeth  ini     .     .     .     ,  fi 

heb  roch  tra  rhodioch  yn  rhad  (Rob.  Wynne)* 

242  Cerdd  tros  Andro  Thelwall  i  ofyn  i  wneyd  ty  Certwyn 

Ysgwier  Salsbri  heini  hynod  [o  Rug]     ....  I 

mewn  odfa  weddol  fyr  awch  ethol  fyth  i  chwithe  {R.  W.) 

245  f  ofyn  Ceffyl  i  Sion  lloyd  o  Aber  TLyfeni 

Ysgwier  ssion  diriou  daith     ....  m 

gore  rhiw  ir  gwr  ai  rhoes  (/?.  Wynne) 

248  J  glych  R.  abon :  Tri  thafod  dibechod  bychain  di  synnian  &c.  n 

b.  J  ferch :  Pe  bae  r  byd  ei  gyd  yn  gado  'i  gilydd  &c.  a 

c.  Pan  oedd  yn  myned  i  Lundain  yw  iachau  o  glwu'r  Brenin 

Gochel  ith  drafel  wrth  drin  rhyw  goethwch  &c.       P.  L.  p 

d.  Fy  nymiiniad  rhad  erhedd  ...  am  dynnu  un  om  dannedd      q 

e.  Jfiwch  Tybacco  :  Nam  blysia  gwilia  gweli  na  chynnwys  &c.      r 

f.  J  bout  simsam  :  Rhy  front  ydyw'r  bont  ir  byd  yw  throedio         s 

249  The  birth  &  names  of  W.  Humffreyes'  children,  168S-1701. 

253  The  birth  of  the  children  of  another  W.  Humffreys,  1664-77. 

255  Recipes  for  "A  Dyett  drinke,"  and  the  Wormes  (257). 

258  J  ofyn  milgi  gan  Wm:  Humffreyes  or  Maerdu  .  1103  . 

y  Carw  dewr  Cywir  dirus  ....      £dw:  Samuel  person    t 
hiroes  ir  Cawr  a  roes  y  Ci  y  Betttvs  Gwerfil  goch 

560  Mar:  Dd:  Laes  ben  bardd 

Clowch  alar  clychau  wiilaw     ....  u 

yfais  a  gefais  i  g^d 

dyna  mai  dan  y  mowyd     .... 

giifroddiad  oedd  gyfrwydda  Robt:  Wynne 

263      Yr  hen  Eglwys  loeger  mae'n  ofid  gan  lawer    .     .     .    .     v 
Rhai  gwyr  ymhob  goror  aeth  allan  o  ordor     .... 
am  ddim  a  berthyno  yn  borth  enaid  .  IIO^ .  Hugh  Morris 

2Q6  Mar:  Hugh  Morus  .  lyog. 

Mae  niwl  draw  mae  glaw  'n  y  glyn     ....  to 

da  yw  i  le  gyda  Duw  Iwyd  Robt.  Wynne] 

*  Person  Dan  vwch  y  llyn.  f  vicar  Gwyddelwern. 


PENIABTH  MANUSCBIPT   121,  747 

268  Etio :  Gk)Tvch  alarriad  gjstydd  gwastad  ac  ochneidon  .  .  .  .  a 
Yngbaerfe  yr  uchelne  y  boch  chwithe  a  mine  Amen 

John  Rhydderch 

271  Dymma  Hugh  'tu  byw  n  y  byd,  yn  Pencerdd     ...       h 
HTfya  mawredd  Hugh  MoFus  Roht:  Wynni 

272  Seven  Queries  of  a   Scrupulous  Conscience  to  the  Rev.  Mr.    ■ 
Hoadly :  If  y»  People  may  resist  y^  Sovereign  Prince  when    they 
themselves  judge  him  guilty  of  misgovernment.  &c. 

273  My  lA  Garnseys  speech  at  y»  Tryal  of  D'  Sacheverell 

274  D"^  Sacheveral's  Letter  to  the  Queen. 

275  From  the  May  Pole  in  the  Strand  to  the  May  Pole  attffarnkam    ■1716  . 
What  you  sayd  last  we  all  allow     ....  v 
Not  eitts  alone  but  Higher  Powers  feared  Heaven's  impending  rod 
Walpole  sayd  nothing  three,  whole  hours  and  Stanhope  own'd  a  God  .  . 
May  make  vs  May  foles  take  the  oaths  as  disaffected  timber 

276  Found  on  the  Queen's  Toylett :  Anna  see  the  prelude  is  begun  &o.  d 

277  Eesolutions  withoutt  doors  upon  the  Eesolutious  within  doors 
in  the  votes  of  the  House  of  Commons  1711. 

278  Come  brother  seasons  since  we  cant  agree     ....  e 
Contend  again  till  all  four  come  together                    H.  P. 

280       Yr  Eglwys  gymwys  ymgomiad  er  gwaetha     ....         / 
onest  Edward  fy  mrawd  gwyn  /  cymerwch  hyn 
cewch  ehwaneg  etto  attyn  R.  Wynne 

282  J  Roger  Salsbri :  Pob  diddan  brydyddion  da  ei  g 

mowredd  y  meirion     .... 
mewn  parch  a  mawr  enw  ymeirionydd     Elis  Kadioaladr 

284  A  Eeceipt  for  rheumatism  &  other  foulness  in  the  blood. 

■    285   TyV  y«^o/ .■  Nos 'da  fo  iti  yr  h^n  dy  bychan     ...     *        h 
nad  eiS  yr  hawg  mor  bell  i  rodio  R,  Wynne 

288       ij  mhatron  tirion  mai  toriad  calon     ...  i 

na  edrych  ei  hewyrth  adre  „         „ 

291    To  Jno.  ILoyd,  Jno.  Nariney  %c. 

In  Britains  north  an  Antient  place     ....  k 

And  so  I  hope  this  Quarrel  ends  Anon 

293  How  happy  a  state  does  a  miller  possess     ....  I 
If  soe  happy  a  Miller  who  would  be  a  King                 „ 

294  Troi 'r  faneg  Troi'r  Garreg  troi 'r  mynydd  m 

troi  'r  mawu     .... 
A  chwithe  yn  ferch  weddol  rhagorol  '^  Geir  „ 

295  J  frind  oedd  ganddo  geniog  hefyd  Ag  iw  ffrind  fo  Roes  i  Benthig  n 
Ag  wrth  geisio  y  Geniog  adre  Digio  y  wnaeth  y  ffrind  ag    ynte 

Ni  ro  i  mo  Ngeiniog  bach  i  yndyn  i  wneyd  fy  anwyl  firind  yn  elin 
Cadwa  hono  i  mi  fy  hynan    Mi  ga  barch  tra  fowi  yn  y  fferchen  . 

296  Clowch  uchel  fawl  trwy  feirion     ....  o 
am  domas  Wiliam  landdyn     .... 

mae  letu  fo  'n  llangowen  <fec.        —a  fragment 
Here  follow  S2  blank  leaves,  and  at  the  end  of  the  MS.  we  find : 

297  Receipts  "  against  hot  Rheums  "  and  "  for  the  kings  Evill " 

299  The  archbishop  of  York's  speech  before  the  House  of  Lords 

300  The  rent  of  "  Tre  r  ddol  set  anno  1713  " 

301  To  the  minister,  church  wardens  &c.  of  Gwyddelwern. 

F  F   2 


748  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   122. 

MS.  122  =  Hen.  187.  Poetry,  the  founding  of  Euthin- 
Grammar  School,  &c.  Paper;  11^x71  inches;  128  pages;  in  the 
autographs  of  the  Revds.  Evan  Evans  and  Wm:  Wynn ;  bound  in. 
white  vellum. 

It  IB  not  easy  to  decide  with  certainty  the  exact  share  of  the  two  copyists,  but 
pagea  1-8,  1.  4,  10-26,  31-33, 1.  9,  63-110, 1.  7,  may  be  said  to  be  in  the  autograph 
of  E.  Evans  (Curate  of  Manavon,  p.  8). 

1   Y  Farn  :  Dod  ym  dynawdd  a  hawdd  hynt     ....  a 

Amen  a  nef  i  minnau .  Goronwy  Owen 

8  An  extract  from  Eiyfyr  "Achae  holh  Gymru  Benbaladr"  by 
Tho»  Wms,  1578-95. 

10       Bu  gan  Homer  gerddber  gynt     ....  Ir 

Sant,  Sant,  Sant  moliant  Amen  Goronwy  Owen 

15  J  Ow:  Glyndwr  :  Addewais  yt  hyn  ddwywaith     ...  c 

AflBer  llys  hoff  yw"r  lie  Mo  Goch 

19  Etta:  ILyma  fyd  rhag  sythfryd  sais     ....  d 

Pe  mwy  i  swydd  pumoes  iddo  „        „ 

21   £•«<) ;  Eryr  digrif  afrifed     ....  Gr:JL<iapD.    e 

ar  glod  ir  marchog  o'r  glyn  ap  Mn"'  Lygliw 

24  Etto :  Y  gwr  hir  nith  gar  Harri     ....  / 

Dwg  ni  o'n  rhwym  dygn  yn  rhydd  lolo  Goch 

26  Dafydd  gi  merydd  gitv  mall  &c.  Rhys  Meigen  g 

27  ILawer  bron  yn  Ilai  i'r  brenin  heddyw  &c.  h 

b.  Seraphiaid  tanbaid  tywynbyst  araul  <&c.  E.  Evans  i 

c.  Clywch  d6n  o'r  eigion  rywiogaidd  mal  nabi  k 
clywch  barabl  cloch  beraidd  &c.                            „         „ 

d.  Os  pawb  hyd  escawb  da  wr  a  yfant  &c.  „        „       I 

e.  Hywel  ILwyd  egr  wyd  o  greadur  tost     ...  m 
a  gai  dravrsach  giw  drewsur                                   „         „ 

28  Trioedd :  Tri  pheth  a  gar  Cymro,  Tan  a  Halen  a  Diod  .... 
ends :  Tri  anfedrusrwydd  gwr  niewn  gwledd,  torri  pob  dryll  ar  y  saig, 
goganu  y  bvryd  i  bo  yn  ei  fwytta  a  rhoi  yn  ei  ben  ar  unwaith  fal  na 
alio  atteb  i  gymdeithion  . 

30  Hovv'ddfyd  wawn  wryd  vfen  eirian,  n 
ynghaer  Angharad  f.  E"organ     .... 

Y  sydd  nos  a  dydd  im  dv/jn  .  Dd:  Melienydd 

b.  Y  dyn  a  elwir  yn  Domas  &c.  Moris  Dwyfech  o 

c.  Pe  byw  Paris  ddewisaur  draserch  &c.  Anon 

31  jf  Ow:  Glynn  dwr :  Hir  y  buam  dan  amod  ....  p 

myu  Duw  mi  a  wn  y  daw     Gr:  JLwyd  ap  Dd:  Ein:  Lygliw 

Allan  o  Lyfr  Cad. 
33  Plant  Elisau  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  :  Tudur  oLys-Fasi&c. 
b.  Gosodigaeth  Dyfnwal:  Dyfnwal  Moel-MM  oedd  frenin  ar 
Y.  B.,  a  mab  oedd  hwnnw  i  Ddodien  iarll  Cerniw  o  ferch  Brenin 
ILoegr  .  .  .  ends :  y  bunt  dwnc,  ar  gostegwr  a  ddyly  i  chynnull  a 
chymaint  a  hynny  or  cwmwd  arall,  ac  felly  i  bydd  cyflawn  y  cantref . 
37  Rhos :  ail  wraig  i  Kobin  ap  Gr:  Goch  oedd  Lowri  v.  Tudur  ap 
Gr;  Fychan  &c. 

b.  Plus  Einion :  John  ap  Roger  ap  IL'n  ap  Evan  Wynn  &c. 

c.  Osborn  Wyddel  a  ddaeth  or  Werddon    gyda  Gr:   ap  Ednyfed 
Fychan  &c. 


STATUTES   OF   THE   RUTHIN   SCHOOL.  749 

38  A  copy  of  a  letter  (1572)  from  the  Eail  of  Leicester  to  the 
Burgesses  &c.  of  Denbigh  . 

40  The  Statutes  of  the  Grammar  School  in  the  Town  of  Ruthin 
appointed  to  the  glory  of  God  Sr  this  Church,  and  for  the  Benefit 
of  the  Public.  FovMded  and  erected  by  Dr.  Gabriel  Goodman  Dean 
of  TVestminsier  .  Admifsion  fees  range  from  2s.  6d.  to  4fZ,,  and  the 
"  quarterly  stipends  "  from  2s.  to  4d. ;  those  born  in  the  parish  of 
ILlanelidan  or  Borough"  of  Ruthin  become  "  free  boys  "  after  paying 
the  admission  fee  of  4rf.  The  Master  is  to  be  above  25  years  of  age,  a 
man  of  good  credit  and  report,  and  a  M.A.,  or  "  Doctor  of  Grammar." 
The  usher  shall  likewise  be  a  "learned  man."  Senior  Boys  to  ba 
monitors  or  moderators.  There  siiall  be  2  monitors  in  school,  2  in 
church,  and  3  in  the  Streets  and  Fields.  Punishments  to  be  admini- 
stered by  the  Master  or  Usher  at  9  a.m.  every  Monday.  "  My  will 
is  that  moderation  be  observed.  Boys  shall  not  be  struck  on  the  ears, 
noses,  eyes  or  faces."  The  scholars  residing  in  the  town  are  to  attend 
service  at  Church  every  morning  at  6.  "  The  Usher  shall  go  early 
after  prayers  from  church  to  school  for  to  teach,"  and  the  Master 
within  half  an  hour  after  him.  "  At  Noon  the  Usher  shall  return 
within  half  an  hour."  All  the  classes  shall,  a  •'  short  time  before  7," 
recite  by  heart  the  Lessons  of  the  previous  day.  "  A  short  time 
before  8  o'clock,"  the  Master  shall  give  his  scholars  of  the  4th 
class,  and  the  Usher  to  those  of  the  3rd,  2nd,  and  1st  classes  English 
sentences  to  be  rendered  into  Latin  which  must  be  recited  next 
morning  at  9.  At  11  o'clock  the  boys  may  go  to  dinner.  "About 
half  an  hour  after  3  o'clock  (if  he  pleases)  the  Master  may  go  out 
of  school  and  return  within  half  an  hour."  At  noon  on  Thursdays 
the  Usher  "shall  hear  his  scholars  disputing  for  half  an  hour  on 
Grammar  Rules."  "  The  Boys  of  the  Senior  shall  speak  Latin  or 
Greek  in  school.  The  Lower  class  Boys  shall  speak  english,"  and  if 
they  speak  Welsh  they  "  shall  be  deemed  faulty  and  an  Imposition 
shall  be  given."  No  boy  shall  be  admitted  if  he  exceed  tlie  age  of  16 
or  continue  at  the  school  after  he  is  19  years  of  age.  The  "  unapt" 
to  be  excluded  after  one  year's  trial.  The  only  provision  for  play  is 
on  Saturdays  after  2  o'clock  "  unless  the  Master  disapproves  of  it." 
The  Bp:  of  Bangor  shall  choose  the  Master,  and  "  the  sole  power  of 
•chusing  an  Usher  shall  be  in  the  Master." 

62  Diiw  a  geidw  'r  Gwirion 

Anudon  Dynion  o  daw  am  fudd     ....  a 

gyrru  dig  eb  un  Gair  da  Hits  goch 

63  Gwammal  a  fum  heb  gymmar  ...  At  Sais  trafaeliais    .    .    .  b 
Wfit  i  Saeson  caethion  Cent .  Icuan  Fardd 

69  1  Frenin  Prussia  -.  Arddwyreaf  y  llyw  Uuyddawc     ...        c 
Ith  ganu  ny  byddaf  dawedawc  ,,        „ 

71   Y  nef:  Arwyre  awen  uwch  yr  Yri  fanu     ....  d 

A  llys  nef  oi-au  lies  nifeiriant  „        „ 

75  *Ardhwyreaf  naf  neirthyad  teyrnedd  . 

Dawn  atlam  diuam  am  danat 

76  *Angall  a  dheuall  ydd  ym  yndhaw  . 

Hael  vab  rhad  ei  dad  ai  dug  attaw 
79     *Ren  nef  mor  ryfedh  y  ryuedhawd  . 
gan  glain  gloew  adef  yn  nef  drefred  , 

*  Pages  75-87  were  "  transcribed  literally  from  Tho»  Williams's   Book  by  me 
Eyan  Evans." 


Bledhyn 

Vardd 

e 
f 

»t 

>? 

Meilir 

9 

75-0  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   122. 

88       Crist  Arglwydd  rliwydd  rhodd  a  archaf     ....  a 

Yn  rhan  tangnefedd  fawredd  fwyaf  Bleddyn  fardd 

90  Du-w  dy  nawdd  rhag  tawdd  tan  llachar  Uffern  .  .  .  b 
Gwawr  gwerthfawr  boet  trngar .  „  „ 

93     *Oer  galon  dan  fron  o'fraw  a  llwynin     ....  c 

Gwenwlad  nef  poed  addef  iddaw         Gr:  ap  yr  Ynad  coch 

98       Madyn  Iwynogyn  agos  i  ledrad     .     .•    .     .  d 

Dydd  a  fedr  dy  wddf  fadyn  Rhys  Goch  o  Yryri 

103  Mar:  Ow:  Glyndyfrdwy :  Y  ddeufab  nid  addef wn     ...         e 
Er  Mair  par  bader  amen .  Rhys  Goch  o  Yryri 

110  Hugh,  Tomas,  Sion,  Sharlas,  Purs,  Rhus,  Simon,  Shamas,  &c.  Anon 
h.    Awyr  Dwr  Lloer  Ser  Haul  Tan — Tera  .  .  .  Nos  a  Dydd  da  „ 

111  Notes  on  the  places  or  districts  where  certain  poets  resided. 

112  Achau  folo  Goch,  ap  fthel  Goch,  ap  Cynwrig  ddewis  herod 
ail  wr  parlies  Lincoln. 

113  Cyiiwysiad  un  o  Lyfrau  Tho:  Wiliams  Physygwr.     1594  .  = 
Cyfreithiau  Cymreig  (1)  ;  Marchogion  Llys  Arthur  (5)  ;  .  .  .  Trioedd 
y  Cybydd  (20);  .  .  .  Hanes  Taliessin  (130)  .  .  .  ends:  Ymgroeaiad 
Tal:  (222)  ;  Ynglynion  Milwr  (222)  . 

Transcribed  by  me  Wm:  Wynu  out  of  Tho.  Wms's  Book  (p.  5). 
116  Tri  brenhinawl  varchocion  oedh  yn  llys  Arthur  .  Nasirus  &c. 

119  Henwat'r  prydyddion  oedd  yn  amser  y  clymiad  cyntaf  ar 
grcrrfA  .•  Casnodyn  vardh  ...  eretfe;  Dd:  Dhu  o  Hiradhuc,  Trahaearn 

120  Henwae  rhai  oedhent  yn  yr  ail  clymiad  cerdh  ar  Ihe 
cladhwyd  rhai  :  Howel  ap  Bin"  .  .  .  Dd:  ap  Gl'm  yn  Nhal  y  ILyehau 
Gr:  Gryg,  ^olo  Goch  yn  Lhan  Vfydh,  ....  Rhys  Goch  or  yri  ym 
Medh  Celhart,  .  .  .  Gr:  Gweflyn.' 

121  Henwae  y  rhai  oedh  yn  amser  y  3  clymiad  ar  Gerdh  :  Ddr 
ap  Edmwnd  yn  Hanmer;  Gytto'r  Glyn  ym  IManachloc  Egwest  .  .  . 
Lewis  G.  Cothi  yn  Aber  Gwili,  fer:  Vynglwyd  yn  y  Sant  y  Brits 

.  Madoc  Benvras  .  .  .  J.  Brydydh  hir  ym  Manachlog  Cymer  .  . 
Rhes  Cain  ynghroes  oswallt. 

124  Yr  achos  y  cafas     Cadwyn  yyrr  i  henw  &c.     from  T.  W.  p.  47.    / 

125  Och  i'r  veiol  goch  ir  gwr  ddoe  ai  can  &c.        Tho:  Benwyn    g 

b.  Os  hen  im  gwelen  am  giliaw  y  mhwynt  &c.   Tho:  Jones  ne  Cati  h 

c.  Graddau  Carennydd :  Brawd,  Cefnderw  &c.    T.  W. 

d.  Treulwin  Rys  ddurgrys  ddaeargrwydr  a  red  &c.  Anon   » 

126  Dowch  Wynedd  i'r  wledd  ar  lann  Conwy  pam  k 
y  canwn  bawb  yngham  |  yn  y  myw  ni  wel  y  mam 

y  ngwarr  heb  gadair  arian 

Dydd  dawch  dam  Dd:  Edmwnd 

b.  Aed  fy'chenaid  ysbaid  osb  &c.    ^u:  ap  Rhydd:  ap  f.  TLwyd  I 

c.  Pan  el  Nanhwynen  yn  hesb  &c.  Rhys  Goch  or  yri  m 

d.  Meinwen  ynnill  di  'r  menig  &c.  „             „       n 

127  Y  gwr  a  laddodd  y  gwas  or  hir  hynt  ....  o 
y  gwas  a  laddodd  y  gwr  Dd:  Nanmor 

b.       Tra  vu  gwyun  y  Glyna  a  gloew  &c.  Anon  p 


»  Exemplar  per  "  Llyfyr  Coch  "  o  Hergest,  col. 


ELLIS  AND   WILLIAM  WYNNE   OF   GLASYNYS.  751 

MS.  123  =  Hen.  417.  "  LL[rFB]  o  Hen  Physigwriaeth  o  Lyfr 
H.  HJ.  Cynfel  a  scrifennwjd  gan  y  Pavoh:  Mr.  Ellis  Wynne  o 
Lasynys.  Paper;  12|  x  7|  iuclies  ;  26  pages  (interleaved) —all  the 
margins  and  the  bottom  halves  of  pp.  1-6  are  more  or  less  torn 
and  imperfect ;  bound. 

The  text  .■seems  to  agree  in  many  parts  with  the  Meddygon  Myddvei,  but 
the  arrangement  is  very  different.  The  title  ia  in  a.  later  hand,  and  on  the 
margin  of  p.  1  we  find  "  Gryffydd  Eoberts  his  Book." 

1  Gwaew  m^  arleis^  llygad  yn  maglu :  Bk  melyn  wy  a  bl<^ 
gwenith  ac  ychyd=  o  gopr^  glas  drwy  i  gymyscu'n  ffest  gosod  i?rtho 
a  thyrr  y  Magi  ar  G^ae-s. 

R  J  wneu^'  Dwfr  llygd  Maluod  duo  odiar  ulifl  Mai,  rhostia  ar 
f^'  ac  mewn  llestr  glan  derb.  y  Saim  a  chyinysc  ag  ef  gym'  ar^i  | 
o  sugn  y  Celidonia,  a'r  3°  o  win  gwyu  ac  a  hifni?  ir  dy  lyg'^  ac 
f'ai- gloe'sa  .  &c.  &c.  ends:  Adwyth  *  *  *ellyllon,  dail  derw,  a 
]Lysie  r  gwac#*ing  |  *  *  *  m*  oil  kur  yn  fan  a  berwa  hwynt 
mewn  ym  |    *  *  halen  ac  ira'r  fan 


[Fi]nis  Pkim^  Transcrip  .  H.  BJ. 
26    YCHIDIG  GYNGHN  o  FEDDGEL^. 
Haint  ar  Anifeilnd :     *  *  *arr  3  phintied,  copras   gwyn  chwe, 

wns  &c ends :  ILosc  neu  yscaldio :  oil  Roses  3  wns,  oil  wye 

'3   wns,  nitri   Albi  powdr   2  wns,  cwyr  gwyn  wns  a  haner,  a  rhisc^ 
canol  yr  yscaw  gwna  eli  ac  ira  .|| 
The  rest  of  the  MS.  is  lost. 

Part  II.:=Hen.  MS.  448. 

"  Poetry — the   Book    of    William    Wynne    of    Lasynys   A.M. 
Sector  of  ILanaber  and  ILanfair  1753,"  &c.    Paper;   12  xT^  inches;^ 
40  pages  ;  bound  with  part  I. 

1  The  above  title,  the  names  of  the  Counties  of  Ireland  and  Scotland. 

2.  A  list  of  the  arohbisboprioks  and  bisboprioks  of  Ireland 

b.  I  Jo'"'  Roberts  o  Lan  y  mm-  dros  Ellis  Wynne  o  Lasynys 

John  Robert  fwyneiddlan  ddedwyddol  wr  diddan  ....      a- 
Nag  oedvvch  chwithe  gwedi  gweled 

y  Gan  gael  iddi  gi  Rob:  Tho:  o  Harlegh 

3   Carol :  Y  Cymro  anyscedig  derbyn  galehig     ....  6 

Rwy  n  cymryd  a  ffurair  fy  ffarwel  .  Edio:  Morris 

5  Moliant  gogoniant  ganwaith  i  dduw     ....  c 
nid  da  i  caf  ond  Duw  cyfion                                    ?  W.  Ph. 

6  Trwm  y  mraint  henaint  fy  hunan  i  fod  d 
rhwng         y  fainc  ai*  pentan 

Dau  gwell  rhodio  allan  na  byw'n  t^  am  ben  y  tan      „ 

6.       Gwyr  Cysti  gweini  fu  gynt  dda  ar  faes  &c.      Hugh  Evan    e 

c.  Gwae  ft  rwy'n  gweiddi  gweddwach  gwn  y  mod  &c.  Anon  f 

d.  Pob  Doniau  rhauau  rhinwedd  ag  adail     .... 
cariad  hyd  y  nef  y  cyrredd     .... 
un  tro  gair  ond  trwy  gariad  Win;  Philip 

e.  Disymwth  mae  Duw  yn  symud  y  Cedyrn     .... 
yn  ynfyd  hefyd  vn  hen  „  „ 


ff- 


752  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   123. 

7  Na  fydd  digwilydd  gwilia  na  cliymell     ....  a 
cred  ddeuddeg  cadw  ddeg  yn  dda  .                            no  signature 

b.  Nid  ofna  ffyddia  hoff  weddi  oesbrafE  &c.  „       b 

c.  J  Edw.  Vaiighan  o  Lwydiarth 

Of?  daw'r  bwch  yn  drwch  ymdrechu  rhag  ofn  &c.     „      c 

d.  Pan  fo'r  ha  yn  decca  or  dydd  i  garu  d 
gore  bod  yn  llonydd  Na  ddod  dy  law  mewn  awydd 

yn  I'hwym  rhag  nas  cei'n  rhydd         D.  TV.  G.  es.  Bangor 

e.  Cefais  a  gymrais  i  gyd  om  cyfoeth  ...  e 
CoUais  arbedais  or  byd 

f.  Wylo  rwy  heno  am  hen  wydd  sythgeg  &c.  f 

g.  Pan  yn  eneth  fEraeth  ffrwythwych  &c.  g 

h.      Meirwon  fu'r  dynion  dyna  eiriau  gwir  &c.  H.  JL'd  Cynfel  h 

i.       ILe  bo  chariad  brad  mewn  bron  yn  llechu     ....  i 

golwg  nid  eill  gelu  serch  ffyddlon  y  galon  gu        IV:  Ph. 

k.       Pwy  bynag  gorwag  a  garo  ddadwrdd  &c.  k 

I.       Pwy'n  goeca  daera  dihareb  nis  gwn    ....  / 

Ai'r  dyn  a  fo  a  dau  wyneb 
ai'r  dyn  ni  wyr  air  da  i  neb  Hees  Cain 

m,  Wrth  edrych  fynych  ar  fannau  y  gwir  &c.  IVm:  Ph:  m 

n.  Ni  ddowtia  un  a  ddeuto  yn  ddrwg  &c.  Jo"  Philip  n 

o.  I  ymlid  addewid  ni  ddaw  y  Baili  &c.  Wm:  Ph:    o 

p.  ymhob  man  darian  didoreth  y  red  &c.  Jio"  Ph:  p 

q.  Amser  Oliver  Cromwell 

Ni  feiddiaf  ilechaf  ar  fyd  llychwin  rhawg     ....  q 

Pwyn  orau  .  .  .  .  ai  dywedyd  gwir  bryd  ger  bron 

ai  celu  feddwl  calon     .... 

heno  mewn  rhwyd  i  hunain  Anon 

8  Pen  brol  pea  lledffol  pen  llaith  pen  dadwrdd  ....  r 
Pen  ffwdan  pan  na  ffeidi                                       Jon  David 

b.  J  Seiri  pont  Coriven  :     Y  seiri  heini  i  hunain  cedyrn  .   .  .  .s 

tres  ryfedd  tros  yr  afon  Anon 

c.  Cymdeithion  ddigon  ddiogan  a  gawn  o  bae  geni  arian  &c.  „      t 

d.  Os  dyn  a  ofyn  o  wall  ymadrodd  ....  Digon  ...  m 

rayu  mair  banner  gair  i  gall  .  „ 

e.       a  garo  dafarn  egored  ai  twyll     ....  v 

a  hwlia  Dyna  law  Diawl  Sir  Hugh  Roberts 

9  Dyrie  ymddiddan  rhwng  gwr  ai  wraig  farw 

Yn  iach  lawenydd  croeso  i  gerydd  w 

dan  fy  nghystudd  ufydd  wy     .     .     .     . 

a  madde  im  calon  am  fyngwenfron 

wych  a  fiyddlon  i  choffau  Hugh  Morris 

b.       ILiniwch  fedd  annedd  union  1  minnau     ....  x 

wylo  am  fyd  a  welais  Wm:  Philip 

11    Gweledigaeth  Nehuchadonozor — Dan.  4. 

Clywch  ddangos  yn  helaeth  ansicrwydd  gorchafiaeth  .  .  .    y 
byth  fellu  bydd  berffaeth  heb  orphen      "       Edw:  Morris 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   ]23.  753 

12       Dafydd  fab  Jesse  oedd  frenhin  mawr  wrthie     ....     a 
ai  gariad  fawl  dyfiad  fel  Dafydd  Rees  Cain 

15  Draenllvvyn  tw  pengrwn  to  pengrych  topog     ....        h 
tlawd  heb  un  brawd  ar  ben  bryn  Aiwn 

b.  Ir  Ysgyfarnog  :  Hwi  wlatten  dorwen  ar  dix'  rhedyuog  ...  c 

hwi  hai  glod  ir  PrJ^f  hir  glust  „ 

c.  Os  gefaist  wen  lawen  livvys  drwy  gariad     ....  d 
hiretli  am  gydymeth  da                                                       „ 

d.  Ir  TLivynog  am  ladd  i  Ciliagwydd 

Mi  a  goUais  aderyn  cyu  dydd  nodedig     ....  e 

i  droi  yn  Nen  am  f  deryn  i     Morris  TLoyd  Gwern  Einion 

16  Wrth  goflo  araeth  gyfiawn     ....  f 
ond  Duw  dy  nawdd  dod  ini                             Hugh  3Iorris 

17  Trwm  ar  la  yw  tramwy'r  6d  &c.  Win:  TLyn  g 

18  Mar:  Ellis  Wynn  o  Lasynys — 13  Gor:  llSJi 

Pa  alar  sydd  pwl  iw'r  sain  ?     .     .     .     .  h 

obaith  yn  Nuw  byth  yn  Nef  Jo"  Rhydderch 

19  Mar:  E.  Mori-is:  Newydd  anedwydd  in  iaith  aro  Edward  .  .      i 

i  chwi  oedd  a  chyvvyddau  Anon 

b.       Gwae  r  Offeiriaid  byd Ai  fTon  gnwppa  „       k 

t.        Ym  Mangor  mewn  Cor  maingc  eurwych  'u  Esgob  &e.    G.  Rowlands   I 

d.  I  fV.  Wynn  o  Lasynys :  Y  Person  union  eowog    ....      m 

y  byddae  rhaid  ei  ddangos  tros  Crniv  o  Harlegh 

e.  Ir  Gwenyn :  Hafod  o  gychod  gwchion     ....  n 

Ugeinoes  am  eu  Gwenyn  Anon 

20  Mar:  H.  Morris  :  Pryddhewch  Peirdd  pereiddiwch  foes  .  .         o 

Trwy  wycli  amod  trowch  yma  „ 

b.  Canlyn  fy  Uinyn  j  darllenydd  mwyn  &c.  „    p 

c.  I  Ellin  Wynn 

Ych  ddedwydd  o  berwydd  eich  aeres  anwyl     ....        q 
ir  Eneth  a  hir  Enioes.  Robt.  Thomas 

21  The  Choice:  If  Heaven  the  grateful  liberty  w'^  give  r 

That  I  might  chuse  my  method  how  to  live  .... 

All  men  would  wish  to  live  and  die  like  me      3Ir.  Pomfret 

23  Ni  cheir  mor  melus  oi  lus  elw  s 
heb  y  chwerw  dyweda  i  chwi     .... 

Heb  rwygiade  Own  ag  adar  yn  y  Ddaiar 

dreilgar  drwch  Wm:  Tho:  Clochydd  IL.  Aber 

b.     liong  0  Ital  yn  ddi  attal  aeth  yn  sardial  wrth  y  sarn  ...     t 
Yn  Ilwytho  r  Ychen  ar  assynod  heb  gydnabod  fnd  ar  fai 

24  The  Life  and  Genuine  character  of  Dr.  Swift  dediciied 

to  A.  Pope :  Wise  Rochefoucault  a  maxim  writ  ....     ti 
to  please  and  to  reform  mankind 

26       Folks  talk  of  supplies  /  to  be  raised  by  excise  ....  v 

Shall  have  their  free  choice  to  hang,  drown,  or  break. 

30  Chronology :  The  age  of  y®  world  to  our  Saviours  Birth 
3948.  The  Christians  first  called  at  Antioch  40  years  after  the 
Ascension    ....      ends :    1700    J.    Dryden  the  poet  Laureat  dies. 


754  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPTS   123-124. 

h.  I ofyn  Dilledyni  W.  Wynne.  1^50.  ■ 

Y  Person  happusol  dfi  ddbwnus  diddanol     ....  a 

ir  parchus  wr  downus  am  dani.  Philip  Morgan 

32  Y  Bore:  0  F  Enaid  dihuna  a  chydar  haul  rhed    ...  J 

Fod  heb  fy  Nuw  hyfryd  tros  funud  yn  fyw     Ellis  Wynn 

33  Y  nos :  Fob  mawl  fy  Nuw  fo  heno  iti    .    .    .    .  c 

y  dof  i  OS  Ti  am  tywys  „        ^^ 

34  /  Ellin  Wynn  o  Lasynys  yr  "  aeres  gynes  gii." 

Hoedl  hir  i  Meistr  Wynn     ....  d 

yn  magu  y  gwiw  gynydd  Eginin  Wm:  Morgan 

b.  I  W.  Wynn  o  Lasynys  ar  i  ddychweliad  o  G.  Badon  .  1 7^5' . 

Moliant  gogoniant  ganwaith  ir  Ceidwad     ....  e 

"Wr  deddfol  wir  Ddedwyddfyd       RoU:  Thomas,  Harlegh 

c.  I  Ellin  Wynn  ;  Dwy  hattling  rybrin  obry  danfonais  ...         f 

i  Fagu'r  Bendefiges         .•/744.  „  „ 

d.  Carol :  Pwy  sy'n  rhoddi  r  Gr^glais  gre     ....  g 

y  Cyffion  fydd  i'ch  coffi         Morris  JLoyd  o  Wern  Einion 

35  I  jy  Humphreys  Escob  Bangor 

Canwyll  gras  didwyll  Grist  ydi  yn  61  &c.  h 

b.  Carol.  1T§§:  Y  Gwr  rhowioglan  wiwlan  wedd     .     .     .     .     i 
ich  union  barchus  annedd  Gr:  Rowlands 

36  The  Rover:  I  am  a  Blade  well  vers'd  in  my  Trade  &c.        k 

b.  Leave  me  shepherd,  Shepherd  leave  forbear  yr  artful  smiles  &e.  I 

c.  /  ofyn  periwigg  i  Mr.   Wynn  o  Lasynys 

Mentrais  danfonais  fwynwr  ich  annedd     ....  m 

Yn  ddi  fis  pyrth  ei  ddefaid  Anon 

37  Y  Daran:  Mae  Gair  i  mi  o  Gariad     ....  n 

Am  ysgar  Meinwar  ami  D.  ap  Gwilim 

h.       Y  chwannen  bach  union  bur     ....  o 

Er  un  Mab  y  Gwr  a'n  medd  Thomas  Price 

38  F  annerchion  o  burion  bwriad  Galon     ....  p 
Am  eich  Cariad  difrad  da  O  elusen  a  lesha        G.  Rowlands 

39  Canol  Nos :  Duw  wele  nghwsg  I'm  gado     ....  q 

Ein  hanfod,  gydfod  #  #  *  #  *  signature  out  off. 

40  Particulars  of  certain  "  Arrears  "  due  in  1753 

b.       Y  Byd  a  syrthiodd  mewn  bar  bwriadus     ....  r 

Er  dim,  ni  wna  Gyngor  da;  Anon 


MS  124  =  Hen,  362».  Poetet  by  Owen  Griffith,  Griffith 
Phylip'and  many  others.  Paper;  about  12  X  7|  inches  (interleaved 
throu-'hout  12*  x  81  inches)  ;  836  pages  (all  mounted  on  the  inter- 
leaves" ex.  ept  pp.  331-6  which  are  loose  at  the  end) — the  corners  and 
outer  margins  are  more  or  less  frayed,  and  the  text  is  here  and  there 
imperfect,  especially  at  the  bottom  corners ;  the  ink  is  faint  in  patches 
inconsequence  of  the  MS.  having  suffered  from  damp  at  sometime; 
written  alter  1713  ;  strongly  bound  in  morocco. 

Pages  1-16,  and  19-20  are  missing. 
17  A  fragment  of  an  elegy  to  "  Rowlans"  buried  at  BettTrs  Garmon  in  1700 


POETRY   BY   OWEN   GRIFFITH  ETC.  755 

b.  Mar:  "  am  Eissiard  aer  Edward  "  o  ?  Nanhoron         fragmentary  a 

21  "  Gwr  croesawus  parchus  .  .   .  yn  hal  henbont "  yery  faint  b 

22  Mar:  Sion  Mred:  buried  at  ILanwnda  .  1700  imperfect   c 

23  A  fragment  ending  :  dawn  bythol  duw'n  ei  babell        0.  Gr-  d 
b.  *Sierom  ynn  .  .  .  yr  awdr  prafE  y  mastr  Prys     ....       e 

Ach  oes  i  wythoes  a  el  .  IS^i  .  Rhys  Cain 

24  &  271'  f  Edw:  Wms:  Person   Dreioen 

Y  gwr  lien  doeth  gwar  Uawn  dysg  &c.  S.   Cain,  f 

25  A  fragment  ending :  Gwna  fi'n  rbydd  yn  y  dydd  d!g     Mor:  ap  H.  Lewis    y 
b.  1  wyr  Bangor :  Ofer  y w'r  hfi  ar  fawr  ball     ....  k 

na  chware  am  bottle  byth         imperfect  i?.  Williams 

26  Mar:  Edw:  Prys  :  B5^d  caled  yw  bod  citwg     ....  i 

mwy  na  dwfr  menai  ai  dwg  || 
27,  b.  Mar:  Rich:  Philip :  Cwympodd  torrodd  caterwen  .  .  .  .    k 
bardd  Nannau  .  .  .  Athrawon  henyddion  oedd[l 

29  Stanzas  between  men  and  angels 

II  Croeso  Haul  Caersalem  ucha  I 

In  dedwydd  swydd  

31       Gwr  ai  fraw  dan  gwr  ei  fron     ....  .  isgO  ,  m 

Proffid  gras  y  prophwyd  grym        Gwyrfyl  113  Ho:  Fychan, 

b.  I  TV.  Van  o  Gorsygedol  fab  Rich:  .  .    fab  farll  Desmwnt 

Y  gwalch  rhwydd  dan  gylch  rhuddaur    ....  n 
Dros  eraill  deiroes  Bryr           J.  Brynkyr    drwy  help  W.  Pk: 

33  C.  Priodas :  Rhai  a  gar  yn  rhagorawl     ....  o 

Eich  plith  ai  fendith  a  fo  Edm:  Prys 

34  Ystidio.  i  ddwy  was  didwyll     ....  p 
Asw  i  mi  ^esu  .  Amen                                      Z)"*  Sion  hent 

36  Am  oganu  lliw'r  bardd :  Y  ferch  wedi'r  glod  a  f ii  .  .  q 

A  ro  iti  wra  teg  Robin  Ddil 

37  Y  gangen  irwen  eurwallt     ....  r 
Galla  dyn  golli  d'enaid                                         Rich:  Philip 

38  Mar:  Gr:  Wynne  Boduan,  aetal  33,  l6§0  . 

O  Dduw  ifon  gyfion  gofiad     ....  s 

Duw  He  mae  d\vg  ni  oil  .  Amen  .  Owen  Grnffydd 

41  Mol:  Hugh  Hughes  o  Gefn  TLnnfair  ai  wraig  . 

Canbawddamawr  llu  mawr  Bj^n     ....  t 

A  llwyddiant  well  well  iddun    Pasg,  162S       Ric:  Cynical 

42  Mar:  Rich:  Hughes  Cefn  llanfatr  .  IdlS  . 

0  Duw  ior  beth  ydyw'r  b^d     ....  u 

Hughes  i  law  Jesn  hael  aeth  Gr:  Phylip 

44  Jfar:  Evan  Evqns  Tanybwlch  .   l6§0  , 

Pa  wylo  sydd  pa  loe»  yw    ....  v 

Lawenydd  yr  ail  einioes  Sio9i  Dafydd 

46  Mar:  Owen  Wynne  or  Glyn  yn  sir  Feirionydd  .  1682  . 

Och  dyma  afiach  dymor     ....  w 

IParwel  Owen  ffriw  loewych  Owen   Griffydd 


*  Line  9.     Beginning  faint  and  imperfect.     See  Pen:  MS.  6^,  p.  111. 
f  See  Pen.  MS.  117,  page  147,  above. 


756  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   124. 

48  Mar:  Mrs:  Grds  Hughes  or  Cefn  yn  Efionydd  .  l6^2  . 

O  Duw  Ay  nawdd  ded  ini     .     .     .     .  a 

Pura  tasg  an  par  atto  Owen  Griffydd 

50  Mol:  Sir  Robert  Owen  or  Clenenau 

Fob  Bardd  o  ddysg  pybyr  ddawn     ....  b 

[ll]aw  dda  biir  ai  llwyddo  byth  „  „ 

52  3Iar:  John  Bodwrda :  Trwm  iw  mron  yn  tramwy  mro     .     .      e 
yna  an  galwo  i  g^d  0.  Griffydd 

54  Luc  X.  30 ;  O  Frodyr  611  fawr  rad  rym     ....  d 

yngras  ag  ynghrist  611  Sion  Philip 

55  Duw  frenin  da  fu'r  wyneb     ....  e 
drwy  gariad  ir  drigaredd           Dd:  ap  Hwlkyn  ap  Madog 

56  ^esu  bwda  ddefosiwn     ....  / 
oes  oesoedd  ith  Lys  ^esu                                Richard  Brych 

57  Mol:  John  Griff:  Fychan  o  Gefnamwlch 

Ba  ryw  dir  y  bwriaf  daith     ....  g 

cadwed  sion  ceidwad  y  sir  Morys  Dwyfech 

58  Mar:  Gruffydd  Glyn  or  Gwnfryn  yn  ILyn  .  ?  158B  . 

^esu  nef  i  ras  ai  nawdd     ....  h 

j  Euffydd  Glyn  ar  fFydd  glau  sion  Phylip 

60       [Y  ferch]  hirvvedd  farcbiriol     ....  i 

Gwae  fi  orfod  gwrthod  gwen  Anon 

b.  f  ofyn  cymod  Roh:  Wynne  o  Fodysgallen 

Yr  wylan  fal  yr  Alarch     ....  Ji 

Dy  nudd  dewr  dy  uewydd  du 
y  Bardd :  Os  fellu  i  mae  gwae  a  gaf    ....  I 

Ar  newydd  ir  mynydd  mawr  Rich:  Cynwal 

62  Huw  pan  aned  .  .  aer  Robert  fVyun  .  .  .  Bodysgallen 

Duw  a  roes  a  da  iw'r  w^dd     ....  m 

A  chynydd  fwy  na  chances  Rich:  Cynwal 

64  [Arglwjyddes  ffraeth  gynes  ffri     .     .     .     .  n 
Ehwydda  modd  y  rhodd  imi                               [  Tho:  Prys'] 

b.  Dychymig  arall :  Cefals  gau  fercb  draserch  drai  ...  o 

yn  ddidwyll  byth  na  ddoedwn  Thomas  Prys 

c.  Mar:  merch  :  Dwys  im  son  nad  oes  im  serch     ....        p 

iin  wych  oedd  yn  iach  iddi  Gwilim  ap  Evan  hen 

65  Mar:  Hugh  Bodwrda  :  Bid  dirfawr  yw  bod  terfyn  ...  q 

Dewis  wr  adawo  Sion        .  l622  .  Rich:  Cynwal 

67  Mar:  Rob:  Carreg  :  ILyn  bryd  Uawn  wae  oi  breuddwyd  .  .    r 

Drwy  gariad  aeV  drigaredd         .  13T]  .  Lewis  Menai 

68  0  Dduw  dad  pa  fyd  ydyw  &c.  •  Sion  Tudur  s 

69  J  W-  Wynn  Dyffryn  Melai,  Sirif  Sir  Ddimbych 

Mae  swyddwr  grymys  heddyw     ....  t 

William  Wynn  hael  yma  n  hen  "1637"  Watcyn  Clywedog 

71  Y  widdfa  noddfa  neddfawr     ....  « 
Ar  nwyf  ir  af  ir  nef  ar  aw)'                              Dd:  Corllech 

72  Henfrud:     *  *  *  eryr  dros  for  ai  drysor  o  bobtu  ...         v 

Ai  gwragedd  yn  greirie  ai  coryne'n  tyfu  Adda  Fras 


POETRY   BY   OWEN    GRIFFITH   ETC.  757 

h.  Brtid :  Byd  angall  os  deuallwn     ....  « 

naw  mis  nid  rhaid  in  ainau  Robin  Ddil 

73  Hanes  y  Cochol  Coch :  Fal  ir  oeddwn   gida'r  hwvr  ...  b 

Pob  rhyw  Gymro  gvvyn  dy  fyd  Anon 

b.  Brud  arall :  Daw'r  byd  yn  gryd  a  cbyd  ochi     ....         c 

Pan  fo'r  brodyr  llwydion  yn  ymgynghori     .... 
nag  adlan  i  drigo  on'd  cvwydri  Robin  DdU 

c.  Mon  a  losgir  a  ILyn  a  Lusgir  &c.  Anon  d 

d.  Pum  bys  ar  law  puin  llynges  a  ddaw  &c.  „      e 

e.  Mar:  Hanibal  Prys  :  Beth  a  wnawn  byth  iawu  onyd     .     .    .  / 

Duw  da  611  doed  i  wUys  .  l6lQ  .  Tho;  Prys 

74  Cyffes :  Crair  cred  ced  cynydd     ....  g 

drewynt  cyrn  ufEern  a  ffaith  ddygynedd  jfolo  Goch 

75  Mar:  D^  John  Ellis :  Hydref  fis  o  draw  far  ....  h 

dim  ebwch  drwy  anobaith       .  16^3  .         Owen  Gruffydd 

76  /  Rich:  Madryn  or  ILanerchfawr,  Sirif  .   l6p5  . 

Pob  Bardd  o  ddawn  ffrwytb  lawn  ffri     ...  i 

A  gwledd  nefoledd  yn  61  „  „ 

77  Priodas  Sieffre  Parri  o  Langolyn  a  Margaret 

Hughes  o  Gefn  ILanfair  yn  ILyn 
Duw  a  wnaetli  y  h^A  ini     .     .     .     .  k 

ILaw  Dduw  ar  ddawn  llwydda'r  ddau  Wat:  Clywedog 

79  Mar:  Charles  I:  Och  gred  ag  angred  a  gwyn  ....  I 

Irbai  ddylent  hir  ddialedd  Wm:  Philip 

Cywyddev  Owen  Griffith 

81  Mar:  Hugh  Bodwrda :  Duw  pa  ddydd  di  hap  a  ddaeth  .  .  .m 

Heb  daerder  y  Modwrda       .  76p4  •  Owen  Griffith 

82  Mar:  Win:  Frauds  JLoyd  o  Langwnadl  .  16%  . 

Byrr  a  brau  iw  dyddiau  dyn     .....  n 

Le  anfwyn  i  lawenfyd 

84  Mar:  Ow:  Anwyl :  Gwagedd  iw  dyn  gogwydd  dwys  ...        o 

lin  enaid  Owen  Anwyl         .  l6gs  . 

85  Mar:   W.  Glyn :  C'lywch  o  nych  fawr  nych  farnad     .     .     .   p 

Glyn  i  nod  goleuni  ne 

87  Mol:  James  Brynker  sirif  yn  l6^6 

Af  ir  llys  dda  fawr  wellhad     ....  q 

Gida  ei  leer  i  gadw  ei  Lj^s 

88  3far:  J.  Dd  \_Laes']  :  Pereriu  wyf  dan  glwyf  glees  ...  r 

A  doniau  byth  dyna  benn         .  l6gjf  . 

90  Mar:  Mari  'r  ailfrenhines 

Pedair  Mair  mewn  purder  mawl     ....  s 

Duw  ar  oen  mewn  diwair  ras         .  lOgj/  , 

92  Mar:  J.  Wynn  Penllech :  Cwynion  oer  yw  canu'n  iach    .     .   t 

Dda  nawdd  drigaredd  i  ni         .  l6g3  . 

93  Mar:  Elizabeth  Wyn?i  o  Langwnadl  .   -lOgO  .  u 

Angav  a  wnaeth  iug  yn  ol     .     .     .     . 
diogel  Iwydd  an  dygo  iw  Lfs 

94  Mar:  Margred  Wynne  Maes  y  neuadd  .  l6g6 . 

Och  ferred  awch  oferwaith     ....  v 

,  Daith  hylwydd  an  d<!tholo 


758  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   124. 

96  Genedigaeth  Love  Parri  "  llin  a  gwaed  .  .   Ce/n  II.  fair  " 

Eiliwa  gan  wiwlan  gynea     ....  a 

Gwir  aeriaeth  i  gorwyrion  .  16 96  ,  Ow:  Griffith 

97  Mar:  Gr:  Fychan  o  Gors  y  gedol  .  6  Gorphena  l6pj 

Cwyno  sydd  nid  cynes  son     ....  i 

Yn  nuw  Fychan  nef  icliwi 

99  y  ofyn  march  dros  Die  Glos-gwynn! gun  H.  Nanney 

a  R.  Va":  Y  ddau  lywydd  dda  lawen     ....  c 

Ddiwair  hyut  ir  ddau  ai  rhydd 

101  Mar:  Edw:  Williams  Meillionydd .  lOgt  . 

Briw  alar  braw  a  welwn     ....  d 

Gwiliwn  bawb  ar  geulan  bedd 

102  Mar:  Syr  Rob:  Owen  aer  Clenenau,  Porcinton,  a  ILanddyn 

Och  droi  gwlad  i  uchder  gloes     ....  e 

Cii  Iwyddiant  an  coleddo  .1698. 

104  Mar:  /^ot)e  Pram' .•  O  Dduw  piir  beddy w  peraist  ....  / 

Oil  .sy  fyw  yw  wllys  f6         .1101. 

106  Genedigaeth  William  aer  Rich:  Vaughan 

Corsy gedol .  20  Tach:  1101 . 
Awn  dowcb  feirdd  a  nodwch  fawl     ....  g 

Blant  oi  blaiit  drwy  Iwyddiant  Ian 

107  Mar:  Thomas  Buihle  or  Dinas  .  110S  . 

Darfu  on  mysg  derfyn  njaith     ....  h 

Decca  nod  an  dycco  ni 

i08  Mar:  Gwen  Fychan  m}  Wtn:  Ftjchan  o  Gorsygedol .  IIO8  . 

Byrr  yw  'r  byd  twyil  enbyd  hwn     ....  i 

Nawdd  i  bawb  yn  niwedd  byd 

110  Mar:  Franses  gwraig  Tho^  Wynn  Boduan  ,110<) . 

Djma  iu  gwlad  drawaid  trwm     ....  k 

Amen  Dduw  an  iawn  ddiwedd'        -^  0.  Gr: 

ill       Dydd  da  ir  wylan  leian  Iwyd     ....  I 

Ddidrwch  wir  heddwch  ir  hydd  Dd:  Gorllech 

112   I  ofyn  bach  i  Iddd  tyrchod  daiar 

Eich  annerch  drwy  serch  rwi  sion  m 

Aer  ar  dir  Aberdaron     .... 

win  di  dreil  yn  ein  dau  dad  Anon 

113         Na  ehrcdwch  i  air  rhy  deg  ....  niwj  na  gwenwyn  mewn  gweniaith.  n 

b.  Adeilad  trwch  ar  dal  traeth  .  .  .  llunia .  lie  nid  61  y  llanw  i  dir.      0 

c.  A  nithio  y  gloew  wenith  glan  Y  Her  611  a  yrr  allan  p 
<f.  Cymer  drwy  wchder  dy  ran  Gad  i  eraill  gadw  arian  &c.  q 
e.  Da  yw  nef  ir  dyn  afiauh  A  da  yw  nfif  ir  dyn  iach.  r 
J".  Da  ir  ardd  yohen  mewn  pen  pant  A  chytun  0  eh^d  tynant  &c.  s 

g.        A  goelio  pawb  y  glew  piir  A  ddaw  yn  waeth  iddo  i  wneuthyr  &o.  t 

h,       trarhodd  ar  wr  heddyw  A  gorau  stad  yw  gras  Duw  &c.    u 

i.       Beth  a  yrr  blaen  byth  ar  blaid  Blaenor  a  by w  i  lonaid  v 

Ofer  y  llii  ef  ae  ir  llawr  0  bae  lonydd  y  blaenawr. 

k.       Dyna  ran  da  yn  ei  raid  Duw  a  ran  da  ir  enaid  &c.  w 

I.       Camp  hen  cenfigen  ar  fer  Cnoi  'r  galon  cyn  i  gweler  &c.   x 

114       Y  winwdden  a  nyddir  yn  egwan  iawn  ag  yn  ir  y 

Pan  el  yn  hen  gangen  gii  Ni  oddef  ddim  oi  nyddu  . 


PROVERBIAL  COUPLETS  AND  POETRY. 


759 


b.        Dyn  doeth  a  ddywaid  yn  d^g  Uu  gair  a  tl  drwy  'r  gareg'  a 

Tn-y  deg  y  cais  tra  tyccio  Cyn  rowndio  draw  fo  ymwreudu  dro 
Y  gair  tyn  ar  garw  nid  da  Gair  teccach  gorau  tyccia 
yr  yell  gwir  awoh  a  gyrrfidd  Prynhawn  y  peru'n  y  w^dd 
E  fliua  yr  ycti  aflonydd  Ar  y  did  cyn  haner  dydd 
A  fo  'u  araf  fyw  'n  wrol  Ni  thripia  ag  ni  wyra  'n  ol 
A  fo  chwy  n  ai  faych  arnaw  A  geiff  drip  wrth  ryw  gy£F  draw. 

c.  Y  fynwes  a  fo  anael  ....  Nid  rhaid  end  amnaid  ar  hael  &c.  b 

d.  Tafod  fal  dyrnod  a  dwrn   [drwy]  rwysg  a  dyrr  yr  asgwrn.  c 

e.  Drwg  a  wnaeth  a  drig  yn  wall  Draw  ag  aros  drwg  arall  &c,  d 

f.  Deuair  oedd  rain  i  deuall  Gair  mam  gair  Uysfam  yw  'r  Hall  &c.  e 

g.  Celwydd  ni  wna  ond  cilwg  Nid  da  heb  droed  un  tfh  drwg  &c.  / 
h.  Angau  :  A  fago  'r  ddaiar  aren  A  Iwngc  hi  fal  afangc  hen     ....  g 

yr  enaid  i  wyr  Anna.  Anon 

115        Gwae'r  neb  er  cwbwl  oi  febjd  Byth  a  ymddirietto  ir  byd  &c.  k 

b.  Nid  hael  hael  ar  feder  cael  c6d  Nid  call  call  wedi  cael  colled  &o.    i 

c.  Da  yw  daint  rhag  tafod  daw  dydd  ynghilfach  safn  anghelfydd  k 
O  bae  air  heb  ei  warant  Gorau  dim  i  gae  ar  dant 

A  dawo  a  wrandewir  O  dewi  gwers  i  daw  gwir     .... 

y  doeth  ni  ddywyd  b  wyr  Nid  oi  sou  y  daw  synwyr     .... 

Os  pwyll  canwyli  rhag  cyneu  Goreu  canwyll  yw  pwyll  p«u. 

'116         Wrth  ddau  beth  yr  aeth  y  byd  Wrth  ofn  ag  wrth  werth  hefyd  / 

swyddau  gwlad  iy  heddyw  gloflf  A  swydd  eglwys  sydd  ogloS  &c. 

6.         Y  ola  fai  yn  celu  ei  ofid  Fe  &  ei  rydd  heb  fawr  wrid  m 

Ni   chel  mi  ai  mynych  welais  Fy  ngwedd  a  fo  yngwraidd  f  ais 
Y  grudd  sy  yn  cyhuddaw  Y  galon  drist  or  glyn  draw  . 

c.  jf  Dduw  .  Y  gwir  wyneb  gwirionedd 
Donen  'waed  am  eneid  *  *  *  * 

118  Uoer  ai  gwallt  tin  lliw  a  gwin  &c. 

&.■      Doe  gwelais  ddyn  ledriais  laa     .     . 
A  ddel  dyn  ir  ddail  ai  dwg 

c.       Truan  yw  'r  ddylluan  deg     .     .     . 
oddeth  ymbob  pren  eiddew 

119  Vhyd:  Tma  ir  ys  yn  ymryson     .     . 

Fy  nuw  i^ih.  a  rd  nef  yn 

120  3Iar:  Gr:  Vaughan  o  Gaergai,  dechre  Ebrill  l63§  . 

Troes  Duw  anap  tros  dynion     .     .     . 
[Da]ioni  Duw  yw  enaid 

121  JEtlo:  Mai  i  roeddwn  mawl  rwyddwych 

yn  y  cnawd  ddyddbrawd  a  ddaw 

122  Morfydd  ferch  ]ferwerth  gerth  g[ain] 
Maiut  angen  meinwen  am  wr 


Sion  Phylip 
Syppyn  Cyfeiliog  o 

P 
Dd;  ap  Gwilitn 


Gittyn  Owen 


Win:  Phylip 


Dd:  ap  Gwilitn 


123  Mae  gair  i  mi  o  gariad     .... 
[A]m  ysgar  rhwng  meinwar  a  mi 

124  Oed  am  rhiain  addfain  deg     .     . 
Ar  niwl  maith  am  hanraith  mwy 

b.       T  ddyn  fwyn  ni  doe  'n  f'61    .    .    . 
mae  'n  g^d  ag  i  myno  G-wen 

125  Tri  oedran  hoewlan  helynt     .     .     . 
Oifrwm  a  degwm  o  dir 

.    b.      A  mi  'u  glaf  er  mwyn  gloewferch 
nag  wy  dnoer  nag  aderyn 


Bedo  Brwynllysg 

No  signature, 

Dd  ap  Gwilim 


y 


>J 


760  PENIAETH  MANUSCRIPT   124. 

126  Cynar  fodd  cain  arfeddyd     .... 

nilh  ir  haul  unwaith  ar  hou  Dd  ap  Gwilim 

127  Dal  neitliiwr  delw  a  wneithym     ....  * 

Dryd  deigr  droedfedd  deccach 

>j  » 

b.       Y  ferch  dawel  wallt  felen     ....  g 

wyt  imi  od  eit  ymaith 

128  f  Hugh  Bodwrda :  Tob  bardd  o  ddawn  pybyr  ddysg    .     ,  d 

Waed  eurdeg  ymodwrda  {SirifiCSj)      Owen  Gruffyth 

129  Mar:  Elizabeth  gwraig  O.  Anwyl  or  Pare  .  i6§6 

Gwynt  yw'n  hoedel  dirgel  daithi     ....  g 

Dawn  degwch  Duw  an  dygo 

131   Mar:  J.  Gr:  o  Gefn  amwlch  .  15  Mawrth  16§6 

Och  fj^d  blwng  och  cifld  blin     ....  f 

Da  Dduw  hael  dy  ddeheulaw 

133  Mar:  Marged  gwraig  Love  Parry  Cefn  ILanfair 

Trist  yw'n  gwlad  mawrnad  maith     ....  « 

mawr  siriwch  i  mae'r  seren  .  l6§lt 

^  »  » 

135  Mar:  syr  John  Owen,  marchog,  o  Clenennau 

Digio  a  wneist  Duw  gwae  ni     .     .     .     .  ]^ 

Ffarwel  a  ffei  ar  wylo  .  1666  .  Edw:  Morys 

]c7  Jiiic:  O  ddaionys  Dduw  unig     ....  i 

Gogoniant  fj^th  i^th  a  fo  Mathew  Owen 

140  Priodas  James  Brynkir  a  Caltrin  Prys  o  Rhiwlas 

H&ll  feirdd  d^sg  lleferydd  doeth     ....  >J 

Mawr  fwynder  He  mae'r  fendith  .  l6§J  ,  Ow:  Gruff: 

141  Mar:  Mrs:  Jane  Bwckley  or  Dinas,  "  lloer  Gr: 

Castellmarch " :  Och  angau  d"ii  awch  ing  dwys    ...       I 
Digon  yw  an  dygo  ni  oil  ,, 

143  Mol:  D<'  Humphres  Deuon  Bangor  [i6§0-$9]  • 

Mae  rhwydeb  a  mawr  hydi     ....  m 

Arc  Duw  ar  y  Deuon  Edw:  Morris 

145  Mar:  Mrs:  Ann  Nannau  or  Dolau  Gwynn  .  16§J  . 

Duw  sydd  yn  dewia  lieddyw     ....  n 

ynghaerselein  gwrs  bylaw  Ow:  Gruffydd 

147  Mar:  Morris  Griffith  ai  wraig  o  Fethlehem  yn  ILyn 

Byrr  yVn  hoes  o  bwriwn  hi     ...     .  o 

Dawn  dilus  Duw  ai  deulu  .  16^^  .  „  „ 

148  y  ofyn  Tarw  gan  Gr:  Fychan  o  Gors  y  gedol 

Mae  Jfor  hael  mwy  fwy  rhydd     ....  p 

Eh  ad  ar  dawn  tra  rhedo'r  dwr  Edw:  Morris 

149  f  ofyn  march  gan  syr  Rob:  0.  i  W.  Morris  o  Wmwlch 

Yr  hydd  gwrol  rhwydd  gariad     ....  q 

yw  roddwr  ag  ir  euddo  Ow:  Gruffydd 

151  Mar:W.Gr:  o  G.Amwlch :  Dyma.  iyd  trais  enhyd  tro  .  .  r 

Derfyn  on  gyrfa  i  gyd         .  l6§§  .  „  „ 

153  Mar:  Tho:  Madryn :  Ang&n  a  wnaeth  ing  ini     .     .     .  s 

Fann  di  wael  i  fyw  'n  dy  wydd         .  168§  .        Ow:  Gr: 

155  Mar:  Syr  Rob:  Ellis  ai  wraig  Trephena  Smith 

Ofer  yw'r  byd  wag  1yd  waith     ....  t 

Ir  hoff  oasfawr  orffwysfa         .  l68§ .  „      „ 


tOETRY  BY  OWEN  GRIFi'ITH.  761 

157  Mar:  Gr:  Kattney  :  0  Ddiiw  nefol  dtlavvn  iif}clJ     .     .     . 

Dawn  digoll  Diiw  am  dygo         late  16$C)  .  Ow:  Gr;  a 

159  Mar:  Argl:  Bwchlcij  or  Bewmares         .  lOsS  . 

Mae  (Iwr  hallt  mae  ducer  [?  wynt]     ....  b 

I  asio  mawl  lesu  Amen  „       „ 

1C2  Mar:  John  Owen  o  Gefii  Ircfiacth  yn  EJioiujdd 

O  Dduw  pa  gri  difri  don     ....  c 

Uuw  addas  bo'n  diweddiad  .  'l6§g  .  „       „ 

164  Mar:  Lewis  Meirig,  o  Gejnbodig,  Carnarfon 

[]Ly]ma  flwyddyn  sydyn  sydd     ....  d 
dd  amod  d$>dd  yma  ,  l6^0  .                        „       „ 

16G  Priodas  W.  Wynne  Maesyneiiadd  a  Margred  Bryncir 

*enw  a  wnaeth  a  da  iawn  oedd  <Sc.   a  fragment,  44  II.  e 

rages  167-8  are  missing. 

A 

169  Mar:  ?  Lewis  Anioyl  :\  Wyr  o  Iwynau  aiir  liuoodd     .     .     ./ 

Ol-ynol  ith  lawenydd         .  i6<)0  .  „       ,, 

170  Mar:  .S''  Roger  Mostyn  .  iOpo  . 

Pa  beth  yw'r  bj^d  sadfyd  sydd     ....  g 

Gann  iachawdr  gwan  a  chadarn  „       „ 

172  _f  ofyn  Bill  gan  Esgob  HwmpJireys  a  D>'  J.  Ellis  or 

Werngivydde :  Dyn  wyf  i  yn  dwyn  ei  f^d     ....         h 
Gwedi  'r  oes  gida'r  lesu  „       ,, 

174  Mar:  Robt:  Wynne  o  Fodesgallan  .  l6gi  ,  i 

Wele  ddydd  wylo  a  ddaeth     .... 
Hylaw  las  i  law  'r  lesu  ,,       „ 

177  Mar:  Robt:  Wynn  o  Faes  y  neuadd  .  16()1  . 

Duw  mor  sad  dyrnor  sydyn     ....  k 

Gwae  Iwydd  o  dy  a  "gwledd  lesu  „       „ 

179  Mar:  Jane  Brynkir :  O  Dduw  anwyl  dda  union  ....  I 

y  diwrnod  hwnnw  ith  deyrnas  „       „ 

181  Mar:  John  Owen  o  Gefn  treflaeth 

Ooh  Dduw  gwyn  och  ddeugeinoes     ....  »» 

Deifro\vn  ni  a  deffro  wna  Anon 

182  Derbyii  alar  car  cywiraidd  ei  fron     ....  n 
Path  hwnnw  mwy  f^th  in  mysg  .                                      „ 

183  Mar:  Mrs.  Jane  TLoyd :  Och  angau  (tar)a\vch  ing  tost  .  .       o 

I  fydio'r  ail  gyfodiad  Ow:  Grujfydd 

185  Mar:  Lowry  Williams  Bodletv  .  l6gi  . 

Qwael  dan  ser  ofer  hefyd     ....  ji 

An  dysgo  bawb  yw  digwyl 

186  Mar:  Catlrin  Wynn  or  Berth-awr  .   l6g2  . 

Marwol  yw  ein  meiriol  oes     ....  q 

I  ddamwain  bawb  oddiyma  Ow:  Gr: 

188  Mar:  Mrs.  Loiori  Gioynn  .  l6gz  . 

Gwellt  yw  ein  hoes  gwyllt  iawn  liynt  ...  r 

El-  Crist  ny  hawdd  dynawdd  di  „       „ 

190  Mar:  Syr  Tho:  Mostyn  o  Gloddaith  ai  wraig  .  I692 

O  Dduw  gwyn  dduo  Gwyncdd     ....  s 

lawnwych  hedd  yn  iach  iddo  „       „ 

y  98430.  G  G 


762  PENIAItTH  MANUSCEIPT   124. 

192  Priodas  Ow:  Ellis  o  Stimllyn  ag  Ehbeth  Bodivrda 

Dau  l^n  aetli  sii  clwylaw  'n  un     .     .     ,     ,  a 

lUioi  o  Dduw  hap  ir  ddau  ddyn  Gr:  Philip 

194   ifar:  Margrcd  gioraig  J.  Bodwrda  yn  ILyn  .  1623 

Gwae  ni  yn  ILyh  gwan  yvv'n  lliniaeth     ....  6 

Olau  dvvysen  i  wlad  ]fesu  Cadwaladr  Cestl 

1S6  I  ofyn  march  i  Tho:  Prys  ag  i  Hugh  Bodwrda  dros 

H.  Penllyn  :  ILafurwr  diball  fawr  waith     ....         c 
Cywydd  a  cbaiuk  haeddech  lijn  Sion  Phtjlip 

197  Ar  anedigaeth  Owen  mab  0.  Ellis  o  Stimllyn  .  1052 

Mae  aer  ini  mawr  rinwedd     ....  d 

Ir  aer  ai  cliwaer  wawr  w^eb  wedd  Gr:  Phylip 

1 98  Ar  ddyfodind  ein  Brenin  iw  dernasocdd 

Duw  y  Duwiaii  d&d  awel     ....  e 

Ai  ddiiil  frawd  mal  ei  ddwy  fron  John  Taughan 

199  Mar;  Col:  BivcJiley  a  las  ar  y  Lafnn  .  IQ .  ii  .  l6J/g 

Mae  tonnau  or  dagrau  dwys     ....  f 

wlad  ]fesu  le  dewisawl  Jo:  Gr;  JLanddyfnan 

200  Dyn  wyf  yn  arcs  dan  wydd     ,     .     .     ,  g 
^      f'enaid  i  minne  fanwyl                                          Tho:  Prys 

202  Mar;  Jo:  Williams,  ILen,  '•  athro  yn  meilhryn  praidd 

fesii  "  ;  Clowch  gri  llin  Lefi  llawn  lafyr  iacbys  ...        h 
y  rhawg  dan  rbod  moi  gI6d  glir  .  110^  .  Ow:  Gr; 

203  Mar:  Jo:  Owens  o  Efionydd  "  yn  Rhydychen  .... 

mae'n  gorphwys"  .  IT II  . 

Ocb  alar  di  obheliad  daer  fanwl  am  derfyniad  ...  i 

An  h611  gyfeillion  wiwlon  wedd  yn  g^A  gyfaunedd  f6d  „         ,, 

205  Mar;  Jane  gtcraig  Roht:  Wynne  o  Faes  y  netiadd 

Gosodwyd-mor  g&s  ydyw     ....  k 

Tyw  611  i  bawb  fellu  b6         .  1113  .  „         „ 

206  Mar;  Cattrin  Glynn  o  Leirnion  ,  llO'i  , 

Och  fyrred  uwcb  oferwaith     ....  / 

^esu  fyth  an  hossio  i  fod  „        „ 

208  Mar;  Lewis  Lloyd  or  Plds  Dii  .  llOi  . 

Mae  gloes  droni  mi  glywais  draw     ....  m 

In  ni  Amen  yn  y  munyd  ,,         „ 

210  ^  Rich;  Vaiighan  Corsygedol,  Sirif  sir  Garnarvon 

Pwy  fiy'n  awr  happys  lawn  wedd     ....  n 

I  garn  plant  ag  wyrion         .  1699  •  »         >i 

211  Mar;  Ann  Esgob  Humphreys  o  Fangor 

Angau  a  wnaeth  drwm  alaeth  niawr     ....  o 

Gras  mawr  gwir  Jesu    Amen        .  169§  .  „        „ 

213  Mar:  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Jones  o  Drefan  .  1698  . 

Darfu  on  mysg  derfyn  maith     ....  p 

Pura  dawn  an  pardyno  „        ,, 

215  Mar;  Rich;  Humphreys  or  Hendref  ymhenrhyn 

deudraeth ;  Prin  yw  ein  hoes  prynnwn  hi  .  .  .  ."  q 

Dan  ei  nawdd  an  deno  ni  „        „ 

217  Mar;  Cattrin  gw.  Rob.  Anwyl  or  Parli,  Ebrill,  1100. 

Dyma  newydd  bi)>dd  in  bro     ....  i" 

Dawn  parod'Duw  an  pure  „        » 


OWEN  GBIFFITH   AND   GEIFFITH  PHYLIP.  763 

219  Mar:  W.  Wynne  or  Wern  .  nos  Galaii  .  1100  . 

0  Dduw  dyma  ddii  dyraor     ....  a 
Dii  waith  liyu  ir  daith  lioniio                                    Oic;  Gr: 

221  Mar:  Ann  gwraig  W.  Fychan  o  Gors  y  yidul 

Trwm  yw  yngUwyn  (rem  iinghonys     ....  b 

Duw  'n  yniiill  da  i  ninno         .  1T00  .  „         „ 

222  Mar:  Hugh  Nannaij ;  Dyma  flwyddyn  deifyn  dii  ...  c 

1  iin  enaid  Hugh  Nannau  .   1"100  .  „         ,, 

224  Priodasgerdd  Tho:  TVynn  Boduan  a  Wranses  Glynn 

Dovvcli  brydyddion  fwynion  fawl     ....  d 

Diwall  hedd  Duw  ai  Uwyddo  „         ,, 

226  C.  priodas  Jilc:  F»  Cors  y  gedol,  a  Marg^  ni} 
Syr  Ifan  llwyd  o  Vodidris  ,   /JOO 
Piirwn  glod  p6i'  awen  glir     ....  c 

Rlio  Dduw  gwyna  ir  ddau  gy**#*  >>         » 

228  C.  priodas  0.  Owens  or  Cefn  a  Catk:  Wynne  or  Wern 

[Dojwcli  brydyddion  fwynion  fawl     ....  / 

yw  goledd  yn  gywelu         .   nOS  .  „         „ 

229  Mar:  Mary  Wynne  or    Gaerwen .   Ocli  weled 

mj'nycb  wylo  Awcli  adw}th  ag  ochneidio     ....         g 
yr  unig  ^6r  a  r6  ini  i  gyd  ail  tywyd  byfryd  bsdd        „         „ 

230  Amser  helbtdys :  Dyma  tfd  amur  anwastad  ei  ystyr  ...        A 

I  foil  'n  pen  llwydd  yn  llawen  . 
(2)     Myfyrdod  dyndod  yw  dandwm  y  byd  &c.  „ 

232  fi-fesil :  Henfiych  well  henw  h6flF  a  chti    ....  i 

Iddo'n  dal  Dduw  Nadolig 
(2)     Cofiwn  gii  lesu  ddewisiad  piir  iawn  &c.  Sion  Phylip 

Cywyddev  Griffith  Phylip 

233  Mar:  Wm;  Fychan  aer  Gr:  Fychan 

Pob  calon  a  broa  bur  anian  a  dyrr     ....  h 

Natlur  coel  unawr  oni  torr  calonnau  Gr:  Phylip 

237  f  Wm:  Fychan  o  Gors  y  gedol  cyn  i  hriodi 

Mae  iin  yleni  lawenydd     ....  / 

Crist  wynn  croesawed  dy  wedd 

238  Etta,  ar  ol  i  briodi :  Af  ir  gaer  o  fawr  gariad    ....         m 

'I'eiroes  dy  liardd  brj^d  tiriawn. 

240  Etto  cyn  ei  briodi :  Beirddion  digion  bob  digwyl     ...  n 

1  ras  llawn  liiroes  a  llwydd 

241  C.  priodas  Wm:  Fychan  ag  Ann  Nannau  .   lO^i)  . 

Awn  awn  feirdd  union  fawrddysg     ....  o 

Gwrs  diddan  gr^s  Duw  iddynt 

242  Moliant  IVilliam  Fychan  o  Gors  y  gedol 

Ir  iin  gaer'  enwog  euraid     ....  iJ 

Parhaed  d'eiuioes  pr^d  tyner 

244  [Djewis  ir  wyf  dwys  air  iaith     ....  <? 
Dail  uid  bes'  otb  oes  ith  cod 

245  Nid  af  a  gwawd  nid  w^f  gaetli     ....  r 
ILaw  Dduw  b$>th  fo'n  llwydd  i  bj^d 

246  Adduned  o  ddaioni    ....  » 
yn  grasol  siriol  siryf 

OG   2 


m 


PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   124. 


SJ-)7       Gweitbiwu  fawl  gwaith  iavvn  a  l^Ad     ....  a 

y\v  tretad  !ii  tyrau  tog  Gr:  Phi/lip 

248  Mae  tin  gwr  glan  raewn  gwir  glod     ,     .     .     ,  J 
w<*ch  bryd  hardd  ach  briod  teg 

249  Af  ancdigaeth  Gr:  Fi/chan  .  1653  . 

Rhown  ddiolch  mewn  rliln  dduwiawl    .     .     .     ,  c 

ILaw  Dduw  gwynn  llwyddo  i  gynnydd 

250  ^  fVm:  Fychan  :  Y  gaer  orau  i  ragorion     ....  d 

Cors  da  i  caed  Crist  ai  cadwo 

252  JEtto :  Maitr  Fychan  cyfan  i  cofir  dy  eiivv  ....  e 

Duwiol  w^dd  yw  adail  wenn 

JJ5i5  £tto :  Af  ir  gaer  fawr  agored     ....  / 

Hir  fiynniant  yw  gorph  enwawg 

256  Etio :  Mae  ILys  rh$>(ld  im  lleshaii  rhawg     ....  g 

y  ddaii  laa  dduwiol  yno 

257  Cyffes :  Ochneidiaf  gwelaf  mor  galed  y  baych     ....        h 

Am  bechod  fy  medd-dod  mawr 
It.  "  ffu'i-  cldf"  alt  syr  Thomas  ap  Wtns:  Pysygwr  a  Devein 

Oni  weli  y  ffordd  3'n  ole  jawn  wastad  i  ystyn  fy  nyddic      i 
Discibl  Abram  dysg  Iwybre  Degan  aiir  an  dwg  i  ne 

c.  Mar:  Gr:  Fychan  mob  Rhis^  ap  Rhys  o  Govs  y  gedol 

ILyma  f^d  lie  'i  'niofidio     ....  k 

fo  wyl  Duw  nef  olau  a  wnaetli  .  1616  .  Sion  Phylip 

Marwnadeu    Sion  Phylip  who   died  at   Pwllheli,   in 
his  JJth  year  in  l620.    His  body  was  taken  by  boat 
across  the  bay  and  buried  at  Llandanivg. 
259       Ehodd  Dduw  gwynn  yw  rhwydd  ganu     ....  / 

yn  hen  dda  awen  ddeu  ell 

y  eanai  i  Dduw  can  oedd  well 

Canai  i  wjr  accen  wrawl 

Canai  i  feirch  ag  ir  own  fawl 

Awdurol  favdd  wawd  eirian 

Awdyr  mawl  ir  adar  man 

Arwyddfardd  hydr  iraiddfwyn  .  .  .  Ni  adwaenem  .  .  . 

Awdur  gwawd  gofiadur  gwcll     .... 

ymlaen  He  i  caem  laweuydd  Edm:  Prys,  Archiagon 

2G0       Mawr  gwyn  im  er  a  genais     ....  m 

Da  i  fyd  yw  fywyd  a  fii 
A  da  oedd  yn  diweddu     .... 
fo  roi  'n  rhftd  farnad  neu  fawl     .... 
Aeth  ir  nef  ein  hathro  ni  .  Rich:  Cynwal 

261       Oer  synnais  er  ys  ennyd     ....  n 

1  iawnder  rhan  duw  ai  rhoes  Evan  Lloyd 

263  Dirwyodd  Duw  yr  awen     ....  a 
Senior  pawb  am  synwyr  pen     .... 

ni  fynnai  ganu  i  fanwyr 

Ni  yrrai  gerdd  ar  y  gwyr     .... 

Yn  i  61  hyn  a  welir 

y  gwaith  a  ddengys  y  gwir     .... 

yr  ail  oes  ar  law  lesu  .  Gr:  Ilafren 

264  Hir  imi  draw  garllaw'r  ILan     ....  p 
Heb  fyw'n  hawdd  a  heb  fy  nhad                       Gr:  Phylip 


POETRY  BY  OWEN  GRIFFITH  ETC.  765 

265  Ni  wyl  dyn  anwyl  dyner     ....  a 
Di  wag  weniaith  di  gynnen 

Dwys  air  coeth  di  sarrig  hen 

Da  i  agwedd  a  diwegi 

Di  ogan  oedd  da  i  gwn  i 

ni  feddwai  ef  .  .  .  mal  cler  arall     .... 

wiwlawn  enw  el  a  ninnau  Roioland  Vychait 

266  Dyma  fedd  gwrda  osdd  gii  Sion  Pliylip     ....  b 
fatli  wr  ag  ef  f'athro  gwyn                                 R.  C[/jd»-o] 

b.  Panfwrid  Caslell  Harlech  i  Imor 

Torrasom  gar  bron  g[w]aew  brj^d  /  irhain  aed     ...        c 
f^th  ini  i  fath  ya  61  Gr:  PJiylip 

c.  Amser  R fii/f el :  Ynys  y  Cedyra  gii  union  grefydd     .     .     .      d 

Brenin  siarls  biir  union  sant  .  „         „ 

d.  Mar:  syr  J.  Salsbri :  Y  flwyddyn  fwya  1  added  ...  e 

I  enaid  glan  yw  deg  wledd  Simi  Phylip 

268  Mar:  Margred  gwraig  Gr:  Wyiin  o  Ystymllyn 

O   Dduw  fyrred  wedd  farwol     ....  f 

Duw  dy  bai'dwn  didwn  dod         .  1112.        Ow:  Gruff'ydd 

269  Mar:  Huviphreu  Iliuiiphres  esgob  Henffordd 

Darfu  dwyn  o  dyrfa  dysg     ....  g 

Am  ddii  gam  wedd  dda  gymod         .  1~i12  .        „  „ 

271  Pen  llywydd  pob  lluoedd  yw  Brenin  y  nefoedd  ...  h 
A  happys  dda  weddys  ddiweddiad                      „           ,, 

272  Y  Dioddefaint :  Dydd  mercher  cofier  y  cyfion  athro  ...        i 

Dwys  ei  bwyll  nid  oes  balliant  „  „ 

273  Tyngliedfen  ;  Pob  bron  pob  calon  coelied  h 

pob  cig  a  chroen  dychryned     .... 
A  dweded  pawb  o  ddifri  efo  myfi    Amen     Evan  William 
21h   Can   .  .  .  ff'anoel  dau  lielwyr  i  hela 

Gvvrandewch  ar  hiraethys  gan  farnad  gwynfanys  ...  / 

Dan  y  ne  dyna  gorfod  pob  gyrfa  Ow;  Gruffydd 

276       Pob  merch  yn  rhwydd  gwrandewcb  yn  rhodd     .     .     .     .m 
Heb  gelu  fel  i  gilydd  "  Merch  ifanc  " 

278  Alteb  :  Ai  gwir  a  glywes  baenes  byd     ....  n 

Er  sorri  'eh  wyneb  siriol  Anon 

280  Mar:  Elizabeth  (m}:  Ffowk)  Prys  o  Wern  Kanfrotken 

Tarth  yw  'n  hoes  toraeth  wan  hynt     ....  o 

on  dil  drais  an  da  -drwsio         .  1115.  Oio:  Gr. 

281  Mar:  Rhys  abad  Ystrad  fflur 

Dyn  wyf  doe  a  anafwyd     ....  p 

Telid  Duw  ni  bydd  tlawd  hwn  Gtitlo  or  Glynn 

282  Mar:  Jarll  Penbroch  a  las  yniaes  Hamhri  {1^6^) 

Dawns  o  bowls  doe'n  ysbeiliwyd     ....  q 

^arll  oi  fab  arali  a  fd  „  „ 

283  3Iar:  Ow:  Tudur :  Brudio  i  biim  bryd  lieb  wiw     .     .     .         r 

[d]raig  wen  ddibansh  yngwarchae 

[a]  draig  coch  a  dyrr  y  cae     .... 

Yr  ynys  oil  ar  unwaith         {1//)1)  Robin  Ddu 

284  Mar:  S.  ap  Madog  ;  Wylofys  wyf  fal  afon     ....  s 

A  chynuudd  ir  wreichiouen  Gtitto  or  Glynn 


76G  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   Hi. 

b.  3Iar:  Dd:  ap  Jthel  F'w  ;  Mae  c6f  a  mi  ai  cwyn     .     .     .'         a 
Chwech  y  sydd  cliwechoes  iddo  Dih  ap  Edmwnd 

285  Mar:  Tho:  Salhri  JLeweni  .  Il^go  . 

Trist  iv  boirdd  y  (roes  Duw'r  by[d]     ....  h 

T^  Duw  sydd  yw  Tad  a  Sion  Gultyn  Owain 

286  3Iar:  Eissiarl  Wynn  person  Vsbyttu 

Aeth  anap  f^th  i  Wynedd     ....  c 

Yw  byw  f$>th  fab  oi  f^tli  f6  Simi  Tudtir 

287  Mar:  Edward  ILoyd  o  Lann  Ynys 

Gwae  ni  beunydd  gann  benyd     ....  d 

A  their  oes  hydd  ith  aer  Sion 

288  Mar:  S.  Tudur  :  Gwae  fan  feirdd  mewn  gofynfyd  ...  e 

cenwch  o  chroesefwch  Sion  Sw)i  Phylip 

289  Mar:  Simwnt  V'K-  Briw  sy'n  fais  braw  a  s&n  f^dd  ...  / 

I  bo'i-  enw  byw  ar  enaid  „ 

200  Mar:  S''  S.  Salbri :  Y  blancd  lieb  lawenydd  g 

ffarwel  i  wr  a  ffriw  Ian  „         „ 

292  Mar:  Sion  Wynn  Thelwal  a  Lanrlmdd  .   1S§6  . 

Ui  yiinill  yw'n  gwlM  ennyd     ....  h 

Sion  at  Dduw  yn  sanctaidd  aeth  Simiunt  Vychan 

293  Mar:  Sion  Wynn  a  Wm:  ifab  "  dau  siryf"  .  15()^ 

Ba  ryw  ofid  a  brofir     ....  * 

.^r  T.'iid  teg  ag-  ir  Tad  hael  „  ,i 

294  3Iar:  Hugh  ap  Hugh  o  Langedxoyn 

Ehew  aeth  yinhob  rhai  weithion     ....  h 

Ehoi  i  Hugh  nef  ag  ir  rhain  oes  „  „ 

295  31ar:  Rissiavd  Owen  o  Benmynydd 

Udaw  blin  v.-edi  b'acnawr     ....  / 

I  wlad  Duw  i  Icttyu  „  „ 

296  Mar:  Lewis  ap  Owen  o  Ddolyellau  .   1365 . 

Clywais  fy  mron  nid  clauar     ....  m 

I  LJ^s  Duw  Lewis  i  dad .  »  » 

297  Mar:  Gr:  Grilg :  Trist  oedd  dwyn  &c.  J>.  ap  Gwilim  n 

298  Mar:  D.  ap  GVm :  D.  fab  Gwilim  ymy  &c.  Gr:  Griig  a 

2P9       Aeth  yn  wann  darn  or  deyrnas  p 

CKdro  ail  Jago  a  Ids 
ni  gwir  lU\il<l  y  gwr  llonn 
Os  gwir  Duw  groeso  gvvron     .... 
Os  lleidr  is  Jaw  r  llidiart 
ai  lladdodd  mewn  priffordd  part 
Duw  na  bawn  mynnwn  y  mod 
yn  y  cwest  ar  y  costog 
Rhown  y  dyn  wrtli  gadwyne 
am  hyn  draw  yrahen  y  dre     .     .     .     . 
-  Gore  prydydd  fydd  ag  a  fii  Sion  Tudur 

300  Mar:  Morgan  ap  Hugh  Lewis  iddo  i  hun 

Gofyn  ir  wy  diwy  gyfarch     ....  q 

a  hauo  a  fed  hauach  -Ef.a  gynnill  ynnill  iach     .... 
Drignvedd  gwael  faswedd  fii 

303  ^  fragment  {36  lines)  ending  : 

Yn  inch  garw  niawr  nicli  geir  mwy  Sion  Ttidur  r 


PENURTS  MANUSCRIPT   124.  767' 

b.  "  3Iar:  Syr  Rhys  " — '  Dtvi/n  umiiab  dewin  Nanmor  ' 

Einioes  brafF  Enos  brofEwyd     ....  a 

Dwyn  i  fiirdd  .   .  Di  cliwertliin  Gaerfyrddin  fydd  .  .  . 
Cioeso  i  fardd  croew  ^esu  fydd     Dd:  ap  Ho:  ap  Jfan  V'n 

304  Etto :  0  fair  blin  fu  ryw  Waned  h 

Dewin  un-meistr  dwyn  nanmawr     .... 
Cwyn  marchog  ....  acliwyn  i  fa))     .... 
I  dy  Dduw  aed  i  ddiwedd  Harri  ap  Ri/s 

805  Mar:  Mredydd  ap  Morgan  ap  Dd:  Gam 

Magu  ynof  mae  gwenwyn     ....  c 

Ninnau  an  bwa  'n  annel  Ho:  Dofi 

h.  Mar:  Mrs.  Sian  JPilstion  .  Y  tair  tnercli  or  tyrau  niedd  ...     d 
y  mae  plant  nwyflant  nefol  J  Sian  a  Rya    .... 
Mastr  Rya  Tomas  gwanas  gwyr     .... 
y  rhai  s^dd  rhoi  oes  iddyn  Wm  ILyn 

306  Etto  :  Sut  oru  bliu  Satwrn  blaned     ....  e 

craff  gynnyrch  coiph  ag  enaid  Leieis  Menai 

308  Mar:  J.  JLivyd:  Trist  yw'r  gwyn  dros  dir  Gwyuedd  ....      / 
yn  wastad  yw  haeldad  hwy  Huw  Cowrnvnj 

h.  Mar:  Dd:  ILivyd  'o  Livydiarth  Lys  '  .   I.'il// . 

Duw  dy  nawdd  da  dan  addef     ....  g 

y  breudeg  i  baradwys  Robert  Jfans 

310  Mar:  Robert  Gruffydd:  IFyrf  a  rooa  Hyrfawr  ^eau  ....         A 

lin   ai  fydd  sir  uef  iddo  Gr:  Hiraethog 

311  Mar:  Argl^^  Bagnol :  Pa  ryw  son  ymhob  bro  sydd  ...         i 

Deg  Olwen  Duw  ai  galwodd         .  ■iSlI^ .        Lewis  Menai 

b.  Mar:  Sion  ap  Huic  or  Chwaen  .  13^3 . 

Gwae  un  wlad  f)>th  gwyn  bid  f[ar]     ....  k 

I  wlad  y  Drindod  ai  wledd  „         „ 

313  Mar:  Rissiart  S.  Owen  :  O  Duw  be(h  ydyw  y  byd  ...  I 

att  i  ras  enaid  Ehisiart         .  15^4 .  „         „ 

b,  Etto  :  Gwae  'r  ynys  deg  iie  'n  nos  dii     .     .     .     .  tn 

Ddeheulaw  Duw  ddihawl  dig  Hugh  Cowrnioy 

313   Owdlfriid:  Adwen  dorri  pen  werth  punoedd  i  dlawd  ...       n 
yn  iacli  Gyneweru  gwlad  Gymru  gaeth     Lewis  Glyn  Cothi 

b.  Mar:  H.  ap  R.  o  Gefn  Ryg :  Duw  gv.'yn  er  digio  ennyd  .  .  .  .  o 
Gwnaed  Duw  ag  enaid  Howel  Tudtir  Aled 

316  Mar:  Ifan  Dd:  ab  Ithel  Fychan  o  Laneirgain  ai  wraig 

Nid  un  bwys  ag  nid  iawn  bod     ....  p 

Pedyr  wyn  ai  pedwar  enaid  Tudiir  Aled 

317  Afar:  7  plentyn  Gr:  ap  Rys  afufarw  yiigloddailh  yr  un 

wythnos :  Sorri  o  Dduw  ben  saer  yddwyd     .     .     .     .      q 
un  blaid  nef  on  blodau  ni  Robin  Ddu 

318  Mar:  Sion  Bnoynog :  Dydd  hwyr  yw  diwedd  hiraeth  ...        r 

Di  frwd  a  diflr  ydoedd 

a  brwd  iawn  o  bae  raid  oedd     .... 

Pryd  sedd  Paradwys  iddo  Wm:  R,§n 

310  Mar:  W.  Mostyn :  Y  da  anfono  Duw  yn  fynycli  ...  i 

Fywyd  bir  a  nef  yw  Tad         .   /57(5 .  ,,         „ 

b.   Mar:  Sian  Moslyn  :  Anwadal  yw  anwydau     ....  t 

Annedd  Sian  yn  nby  Dduw  sydd  .  /5rtp .  „        „ 


7^8  PENURtH  MAi^trSCRlPTS   124-1^5. 

320  Criccielh  lie  odieth  lliw  deg  hynodwych     ....  a 
IFrwyn  edyin  yn  IFraingc  ydoedd                   Sion  Dafydd 

b.        Gwnae  ddau  Kobert  bert  wiw  beth  /adeilad  yn  dylu  canmolieth  6 

Daii  fwa  graen  faen  di  feth  Mawr  rbag  ciaccio  miir  Criccieth        S,  D. 

321  Lecsiwnai  yn  glau  in  gwladhebeiviachaberiff  anghariad  .  ,  c 
ILawn  in  rhan  Uinin  rhinwedd     .  1113.       Ow:  Gruffydd 

h.  Mar:  Jo:  JVynjney  JLen :  O  Dduw  byw  eiddo  bywyd  .  .  ,  ,    d 
******    yno  o  bob  annedd         .  Illlf,  0,  Gr: 

322  Gwyr  ifaingc  a  gwyryfon  .  .  .  Molienwch  Dduw  ...        e 
Carwch  bawb  eu  dwylo  ynghyd  A  Uafar  genwch  oil  ynghyd 

O  eigion  bron  ag  egni  bryd  7  frenin  hyfryd  hedd  &c. 
Ond  gweddys  yw  y  gwaith . 

323  O  Arglwydd  Dduv/  grasusol  ....  / 
Am  lienaid  dwg  heb  ogan  itli  'winllan  wiwlan  wawr       „ 

325  Mar:  yr  enwog  Sywedydd  T.  Jones  .  6  Atost  1T13. 

Clyw  Camber  fal  clocc  embyd    ....  g 

Naf  ath  Ddilw  nef  ith  enaid  Dd:Mamiel 

326  C.  Priodas  Win:  Brynker  a  Catherine  JFletcher 

Dewcb  brydyddion  gyson  gan     ....  h 

Diwall  hedd  Duw  ai  llwyddo  Ow:  Gruffydd 

327  f  ofyn  dau  host  gan  Blorris  W'ms  or  Ilafodgarregog 

dros  Ellis  Wynn  o  Ystymllyn 
Yr  ustys  hael  ar  osteg     ....  i 

Dal  ich  fawl  a  diolcli  fwy  John  Prichard 

329  Gwnacd  dyn  o  saith  defnydd :  Cnawd,  gwaed  &c h 

Meddwl  gvistion  pan  fo'ch  falcba     .... 

pr^dd  ^yf  ag  ir  pridd  yr  af         J,  Hughes,  Brynby\chan'] 

330  [0]es  G[cn]edl  nad  dwys  gennych  Glywed  farw  / 

Anne  glodfawi- wycb  ....  Fel  enaid  oedh  irynya  .... 
pan  dliigiai  crynai  cred  &c.      Stephen  Parry  (Jes:  Coll:) 

b.  Mar :  Mrs.  Wynn  or  Wern :  ClywcU  alar  coeliwch  weled  .  .  m 
Gan  hiraeth  *»**•#     (1.  26)  || 

381       (Duw  ai  fab  diddig  Cariadol  caredig     ....  n 

gaeth  glyd  drwg  ynfyd  draig  anferth  .  76(^5  .  0.  Gr:") 

333  (Ma/r:  Ow:  Gr: — BJwm  jvr  ein  Bro  pie  mae  'n  brig  .... 

Nos  da  iddo  ncs  dyddiwr  Michael  Pr***) 


MS.  125  =  Hen,  189.  FiiTiNO  Poetry  between  Edmund  Prys 
and  William  Kynwai,,  &  Pedigrees.  Paper;  11 1  x  7 J  inches; 
:^82  pages  ;  in  several  hands,  a  =  pp.  1-137  ;  6  =  pp.  143-236;  c  = 
pp.  237-65,  — hands  a  and  b  belong  to  the  second  quarter  of  the 
xViith  century,  and  the  remainder  is  later  ;  in  limp  old  vellum 
covers. 

This  MS.  once  belonged  to  William  Wynn  (see  inside  front  cover,  pp.  1 38-W,  &c.)j 
and  John  Wyna  (p.  29). 

1  Vn  erbyn  anllywodraeth  y  ceditrn 

Gwclais  eiry  glas  oerwyn     .... 

da  ywr  hawl  a  duw  ai  rhydd  Edm:  Prys 

4-137  Fifty-four  Fliting  poems  or    Ci'WYBEU    VMiirsnoy 
between    Archilrncon    Edimmd  Prys  and  Wiliam   Kymeal,   iriui- 


fiDMtND  P'KYS  AND  WiLLIAM,   KYNWAL  ETC.  769 

scribed  apparently  direct  from  Shirburn  Castle  MS.  E  11  pp.  2-172, 
which  see. 

138  Index  to  place  names  in  the  vedigkees  following. 

143  'Jachaii  y  Breniu  Siamas  I  o  dii  fam 

Part  0  jfachau  gwyr  honeddigion  sir  Feirioni'ud 
h.  ILaii  Gower :  kadwaladr  ab  Rhobert  ap  ho:  &c. 

144  Yniis  y  maen  gwyn  :  S.  Wynn  ab  wnffre  ab  Ho:  &c. 

6.  &  262  JLan  vioch  y  llyn  ^  Edw:  prys  ap  S.   Edd:  ap  Rys  &c. 

145  Penyllyn  :  Elis  anwyl  ap  Tho:  ap  Rob:  or  Ihvyndedwijdd  &c. 
h.  Penllyn  Tref  Riwedog :  S.  llwyd  ab  Wni:  ab  Elisau  &c. 

146  &  243  Kaergai :  S.  fychan  ab  Rowland  ab  Ow:  ab  Sion  &c. 

147  &  262  Glan  y  llyn  :  S.  fychan  ab  S.  fychan  ab  Ho:  f" 

b,  Y  Bala  :  lewis  Gwyn  ab  kadwaladr  ab  rhydderch  <fcc. 

148  Y  Riwlas :  S.  prys  ab  S.  prys  ab  kadwaladr  &c. 

h,  Dol  gynioal :  Tlio:  Prys  aer  ni}  D^'  Elis  ab  Rob:  ab  Kys  &c. 

c.  Y  DEIRNION — Branas  :  Wnffre  Branas  ab  Morgan  branas  &c. 

149  Yr  hendwr :  Huw  gwynn  ab  Wnffre  ab  H.  g.  ab  Edynyfcd  &c. 
b.  hjmer :  Rob:  huw  ab  huw  ab  Wiliam  ab  gr:  fychan  &c. 

150  Dol  Edyrn:  Pyrs  llwyd  ab  Gr.  fn  ab  Ris'  llwyd  &c. 

b.  Nannav  :  Huw  N.  ab  Gr:  N.  ap  Huw  N.  ab  Gr:  N.  ap  Ho.  &c. 
152   YJiiig  :  Sion  Salbri  o  Eug  ab  Rob:  S.  ap  Pyrs  S.  ab  S.  S.  &e. 

154  Kors  y  Gedol :  Wm:  fychan  ab  Gr:  V"  ab  Ris'  ab  Rys  V"  &c. 

Sir  Dinbych 

155  Bodidris :  fefan  llwyd  ab  syr  S.  llwyd  ab  Syr  5.  11'^  &c. 

157  Y  klenenav :  Wm:  ab  Moris  ab  Elisav  ab  Moris  ab  Sion  &c. 

158  Brynkair :  Elis  Brynkair  ab  Eob:  Wynn  ab  Elisav  &c. 

b.  Ystyii  hegid :  Eob:  ab  Ow:  ab  sion  wynn  ab  Ow:  ab  sion  &c. 

159  Bodfel:  S.  Bodfel  ab  T.  B.  ab  Huw  gwynn  ab  S.  Wynn  &c. 

Sir  Gaernarfon 
ISO  kef II  llanfair :  Hvw  hvwes  ab  gr:  hvwes  ab  hvw  &c. 

b.  I'lulleli :  Dd:  llwyd  ab  IV  ab  gr:  ab  Sion  ab  grono  &c. 

c.  &  166  hors  y  gedol :  W.  fychan  ab  gr:  f.  ab  Ris*  fychan  &c. 

161  hefn  Amivlch  0  lun:  Sion  gr:  ab  S.  gr:  ab  gr:  ab  Sion  &c. 

162  Bndwrda :  Sion  Bodwrda  ab  huw  B.  ab  Sion  wynn  &c. 

163  Pennllech  :  S.  wynn  ab  Rob:  ab  Sion  ab  Robt  &c. 

b.  Saethon  TL.  V'el  ymychellaeth  :  Rob*  Wynn  ab  'J.  ab  Rob:  &c. 

164  Y  icernfator  :  g.  H.  Huwes  o  G.  llaufair  =  Elin  V5  S.  ab  Rob' 
b.  Madryn  :  Gr:  Madryn  ab  Rob:  madrinn  ab  To:  madrin  &c. 

165  Y  Ihryn  dyrys  :  Ric:  fychan  ab  Rys  fychan  &c. 

166  Y  Betivs :  Rob:  V"  ab  Rob:  ab  Gr:  ab  Rob:  fychan  &c. 

167  Glyn  l/ivon :  Wm:  glyn  Hi  won  ab  ]femwnt  ab  Rob'  &o. 

b.  Y  Penrhyn  :  Syr  Rys  gr:  ab  syr  Wm:  gr: 

168  Mox.    Yplas  newydd:  Morys  gr;  ab  Eob:  gr:  ab  Rolant  &c. 

169  Bodowyr  llann  Jdon  .  Jasper  pyrs  kler  ab  Rys  ab  Rolant  &c. 
6.  llys  llowarch  ab  bran :  Huw  ab  ll'n  ap  Jen:  ab  madog  &c. 

c.  Koetnior  II.  llechid :  Rob'  koetraor  ab  W.  ab  W.  Koet:  &c. 

170  Llyn.  Castellmarch:  ll'n  ap  gr:  ap  ll'n      "  gyie\  lyfr  tene  G:  H:" 

b.  kwchivillan :  Wm:  ab  Wm:  ab  Wm:  ab  gr:  ab  Robin  &c. 

c.  JFestionog ;  Rob:  lewis  ab  S.  lewis  ab  moiis  &c. 

171  DiyiiAEL — J/aeswor ;  Peter  macsmor  ab  kadwaladr  &c. 
173  Ihvynyglynav  (nr.  Caerwys)  :   Sion  Gr:  ab  pyrs.ab  gr:  &c. 

176  Gwedur :  Sion  Wynn  ab  Morys  wynn  ab  S.  Wynn  &c. 

177  Eghoyseg  :  Sion  ab  Edw:  ab  Rys  ab  Dd:  ab  gwilim  ab  Jor:  &c. 
179  &  236  Bryii  Evryii  :  Riualld  konwy  ab  huw  k.  ab  Edw:  &c, 


770  PENlAUTit  MlNUSdEIPT  125. 

b.  Han  idlos :  Lewis  gwynn  ab  S.  wynu  ab  Ow:  Wynn  &c. 

1 80  Yr  hafod  wcnn  :  Prymros  lloyd  ab  Ric:  llwyd  &c. 

181  Bodamvydog  :  Tomas  ab  sion  wynn  ab  Dd:  ll"!  ab  Elisav  &c. 

182  Tegaingl :  Harri  ab  Thomas  ab  harri  ab  kyn:   &c. 

b.  Kelli  gynan :  Edvv:  llwyd  ab  lewis  llwyd  ab  Dd:  llwyd  &c. 

183  Bwras :  Ow:  Ervwtwn  ab  S.  B.  ab  Edw:  B.  &c. 

b.  &  203  Bryn  Tangno  :  S.  Roger  ab  S.  wynn  ab  Rog.  ab  S.  &c. 

184  Main  gwynedda  Glann  tanad  •  W.  lloyd  ab  d.  11<1  ab  W.  IW  &c. 

185  Eftonydd — Penarth :  Wm:  gwynn  ab  Huw  g.  ab  S.  wynn  &c. 
6.    Y  Gimifryn .  S.  ab  Uic:  ab  S.  ab  Ric:  ab  gr:  &c. 

186  TLaweni:  Syr  S.  Salbri  ab  S"-  Roger  ab  S'  Tqs  ab  To^  &c. 
191    Yn  owredd:  S''  IV  Hanmer  ab  S'  To^  H.  ab  Ric:  H,  &c. 

193  Y Plas  Teg:  S.  Trevor  ab  Rob*  T.  ab  S.  ab  Edw:  &e. 

b.  MEIRION—Pcniarth :  Dd:  llwyd  ab  W™  ab  S.  ab  Rys  &c. 

194  Rulhvn :  Simwnt  thelwal  ab  Ric:  th:  ab  Edw:  th:  &c. 
b.   Garth  Eryr :  Huw  ab  Rinallt  ab  dd:  ab  morys  &c. 

195  k.  Devddtvi; — Domgay :  Dd:  llwyd  ab  Mred:  ab  gr:  &c. 

b.  TL.  Gedwin  :  Kattrin  g.  O.  fychan  mj  Morys  ab  Robt.  &c. 

c.  Moelyrch  :  Wm:  wynn  ab  Lewis  gwynn  ab  morys  wynn  &c. 
19(5  Blodfel  fcchan  :  Sian  gwraig  John  Mathew  m}  Morys  Tanad  &c. 

197  ILansilin,— Womra :  Olfir  llwyd  ab  Tos  llwyd  ab  dd:  Hi  &c. 
b.  Bj.  vfvdd,  y  plas  ymerain :  kattrin  V3  Tydyr  ab  Robt.  V^  &c. 

198  Tre  Dol  hairn, — B7yn  kynriA  :  Ow:  wynn  ab  S.  ab  ow:  &c. 
b.  Llandrillo  yn  Ros, —  Y graian  llyn  :  Morys  ab  huwab  Wm:  &c. 

199  hoesosswalld :  S.  Wynn  at  Edw:  ab  Mred:  &c. 

b.   Gwyddelwern  y  Merion  :  Jeu:  a  Wm:  meib  Ric:  ab  Elissau  &c. 

200  Ti'wyn  hyfaetJile  y  Merion :  S.  fychan  ab  jfankin  ab  Sion  &c. 
b.  Evtvn  :  Siamas  Evtvn  ab  huw  evtvn  ab  owain  &c. 

201  Pantyllengdy :  W.  gr:  ab  To'  gr:  ab  T.  gr:  ab  gr:  v"  &c. 
b.   Y  wacn  :  S.  Edw:  ab  S.  Edw:  ab  S.  Edw:  &c. 

203  IL.  armon  wynydd  mawn :  Rob'  11^  ab  dd:  ll''  ab  W""  &c. 

204  Rvthvn,  llanfair — y  plas  vcha  :  Lowri  gwraig  To'  gwdmon  &c. 
b.  TL.  aber — merion :  Huw  ab  Wm:  ab  Tydyr  ab  gr:  &c. 

205  Glan  dysyni :  Lewis  gethin  ab  Tydyr  fychan  &c. 

b,  JLwyn  y  matin :  Ric:  llwyd  ab  S.  llwyd  ab  Ric:  11''  &c. 

206  TrefAlvn:  S''  Ric:  Trefor  ab  S.  T.  &c. 

207  Penlref  hynwrik :  Roger  Trefor  ab  Roger  T.  ab  S.  T.  &c. 

208  IL.  gefni  y  mon :  Ric:  Buckley  ab  Rol:  ab  Wm:  &c. 

b.  Arianell  y  mon :  S.  ab  ]feu:  llwyd  ab  U'n  &c. 

c.  IL.  fivrog:  nierched  Harri  ab  Ric:   sydd  yn  ymgyfreithio  erys 
llawer  o  flynyddoedJ  a  gr:  wynn  glyn  am  dir  yn  rhe  lowarch  y  mon. 

209  TcdEbolion:  Morgan  ap  Robert  ab  gr:  ab  Ho:  &c. 

b.  Tal  Ebolion  honwy  {?  kowrnivy)  :  Rob*  ab  Wm:  ab  lewis  &c. 

c.  TL.  fwrog,  Bodgyniais :  Mred:  ap  gr.  ab  grono  ab  Dd:  &c, 

210  k.  Malldiaeth  .   Trefeilir :  S,  Owj  ab  S.  ab  Ow: 

211  Ardudwy  ,  IT.anendicy :  ").  S.  W.  a  Ric:  (B.D.)  p.  Lewis  ab  gr: 
b.  TL.fihangel  y  machalldraeih :  Gr:  ab  ]feu:  ab  gr:  &c. 

Kcllog  :  0.  ap  Tydyr  fychan  ap  ho :  ap  En"  &c. 

212  Castellmarcli :  Syr  W.  Jones  ab  W.  ab  gr:  ab  S.  ab  Robt.  &c. 

213  3Iyllteyrn  :  Huw  Roland  ab  Hari  Roland  &c. 

214  Nannhoron :  Gr:  ab  huw  ab  Rys  ab  dd:  ab  Madog 

215  Bodnithoedd:  Huw  Sion  ab  syr  S.  clerk  ab  Ric:  ^c. 

b.  Kcudio:  Dd:  ab  Ho:  ab  ll'n  ab  Mred: 

c.  karreg :  Gr:  karreg  ab  feu:  karreg  &c. 

216  Dol  y  Penrhyn.   Huw  llwyd  ab   ]feu:  llwyd  &c. 

217  Y  ILnnnerch  fawr  ■  Ow:  Madryn  ab  Ric:  llwyd  ab  Dd:  U''  &c, 

218  Bryn  odd ;  S.  ab  gr:  ab  dd;  ab  Madog  &c. 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  125.  771 

h.  Bri/n  y  nevadd  yn  Nanhoron  :  Tomas  ab  Ric:  ab  Tom:  &c. 
c.    Y Plas  neivijdd  :  Eic:  ap  dd:  ab  ho:  aj)  'Jeuan  ab  Sinn. 

219  Glynn  Nanlley  .  Y plas  neirydd  :  Wni:  als  Ric:  ab  Robt.  &c. 
h.  Y  Berkyn :  Ho:  fychan  ab  Sion  ab  Ho:  V"  &c. 

220  Aher  gelav  :  Edw:  Ow:  ab  pyrs  ow:  ab  sion  ab  Ow:  &c. 

6.  llech  Eiddier  yn  EJionydd :  Ric:  ab  Wm:  ab  Rob:  ab  Ric:  &e. 

221  Hafod  y  wern  :  S.  Pilstwn  ab  pyrs  P.  ab  S.  P.  etc. 

222  Yllai:  Syi-  Edw:  pilstwn  ab  Roger  P.  ab  Roger  P.  &c. 

b.  Almor  :  Edw:  Almor  ab  Sion  ab  S.  ab  ^euan  &c. 

223  Maen  Ttorog :  IFowk  prys  ab  Edm:  Prys  ab  S.  &c. 
h.  ITj.  fachreth  Gotnant:  Robt:  Bwkle  &c. 

c.  Tal  ebolion:  Sion  ab  Ho:  ab  Il'n  ab  ithel  &c, 

224  Ystryd  alvn  :  Ithel  wynn  mab  nikolas  wynn  &c. 

6.  Bod  afon  y  mon  :  Gr:  ab  dd:  ab  Sion  ab  hwlkyn  &c. 
c.  Tnf  y  Bardd  1/  mon:  lle'nn  ab  tudyr  ab  ho:  ab  kyn:  &c. 

225  Herseth  :  Edw;  Uwyd  ab  Robt.  U'l  ab  Edw:  ll-^  &c. 

226  DeiB  Mares :  Syr  Ric:  Bwkle  ab  Syr  Ric:  B.  ab  Roland  15.  &c. 

b.  H^.figd:  Rys  ab  Wm:  ab  Il'n  ab  ^feuan  &c. 

227  Pen  anlliw  :  Sion  ab  f  ankyn  ab  Rys  ab  ^eu:  &c. 

6.  TL.  dderfel:  Gras  ni5  Kadwaladar  walkin  g.  Edm:  meirig  &c. 

c.  Neinffrever :  To'  Ihvyd  ab  Rob'  Ihvyd  &.Q.. 

228  Hu.  'dderfel :  To'  ab  S.  ab  To',  ab  Rob',  ab  Ho:  &c. 

b.  Penllyn  :  Tydyr  Peiillyu  ap  ^eu:  ab  Jot:  foel  &c. 

c.  Mechain  is  /toed — llannerch  cmrys :  Roger  gr:  ab  wnffre  gi':  Ac. 

229  Givenynog :  Wm:  Miltwn  ab  S.  M.  ab  Roger  M.  &c. 

250  Penllyn:  Plant  Gr:  ab  Madog  ab  ^er:  ab  madog  &c. 

b.  IL.  wddyn,  Evnant :  D.  Johns  ab  wmffre  ab  S.  ab  S.  ab  Bcdo 
231  Moclmant :  Oliuer  ll'^  ab  pyrs  \\^  ab  Ho;  llwvd  &v. 

b.  Y  Ihyngioynn  :  Dd:  \¥-  ap  S.  IH  ab  Robt:  llwyd  &c. 
233  Machynlleth :  Ow:  ab  S.  dd:  U''  ab  Ow:  Ac. 

237  RMio  Saysson :  Elysdan  Ow:  ap  Mores  ap  Ric:  &c. 

238  Kelli  Gynan:  S.  ap  Edw:  11'^  ap  Lewis  ap  Dd:  llwyd  &c. 
b.  IL.  Cediuyn  :  S.  Wynn  ap  Huw  ap  Morys  ap  Jeuan  &e. 

239  Moslyn  :  S'  To'  Mostyn  ap  Wm:  M.  ap  To'  M.  ap  Rich:  M.  &o. 

240  Ynneuodde  duon  ymhen  y  Coed  dii  ynghaereinion  .   Evan  ap 

John  Moris  ap  Owen  ap  Llewelynn  &c. 
h.  Emral :  Roger  Pilstwn  ap  Roger  P.  ap  Syr  Edw:  P.  &c. 

241  Dolarthyn  :  Gabriel  Wynn  ap  John  Wynn  &c. 

b.  Crocs  Oswallt :  Sion  Trefor  ab  S.  Trevor  fychan  &c. 
2-12  Krogen :  Dd:  llwyd  ap  Morgan  ap  Tho:  ap  Ho:   &o. 

243  Esgair  Geiliog :  Rys  ap  John  ap  LVIathew  ap  Ric:  ap  Sion  &c. 

244  Tegaincl — Gwlgre  :  Edw:  ap  Morgan  ap  To'  ap  Edw:  &c. 

245  S.  Djxbych — Dol  Wenn :  Ric:  Blodfol  ap  S.  ap  Ric:  ap  S.  &c, 
b.  Corwen  :  Pilter  Meirig  ap  Edm:  M.,  D.C.L.  archiagon  Bangor 

246  Penllyn :  S.  ILwyd  ap  J)d:  llwyd  ap  Ho: 

b.  JLanfor  penn  menn  :  Kadwaladr  ap  Mred:  ap  ^eu:  ap  Rob:  &o. 

247  IL.  Drillo :  Blissau  ap  Ow:  ap  ^eu:  ap  dd:  &c. 

b.  Yr  yniis  Gerigag :  Gr:  ap  ^eu:  ap  Sieukin  &c. 

c.  IL.  gernyio  :  Harri  llwyd  ap  ffowlk  IH  ap  Roger  &c. 

248  Toioyn  Meirionydd :  Ednyfed  gr:  ap  gr:  &c. 

249  Ynys  y  Maengwyh :  Gwraig  syr  Siames  prys  marchog  Ac. 

251  Dolgellau  .  S.  Wynn,  Huw  Edward  &c.  plant  Lewis  ap  O. 
b.  Pennant  Eghvys  fach  :  Rob:  Holland  ap  Huw  Holaiid  &c. 

253  Pen  Mynydd  Mon :  Ric:  ow:  ap  Ric:   ap  Owen  &c. 

254  TrniDsf'ynydd,  y  Rhhvgoch:  Rob:  llwyd  ap  ].  Il'd  ap  Elissau 

256  [G'jogerildan  :  Syr  Rich:  prys  ap  S.  prys  &c. 

257  Mnthrajal:  Edw:  Grae  arg:  Powys  ap  Edw:  G.  ap  S.  &c. 


772  PENIARTH   MANaSCElPTS   125-1^6. 

259  TLanfair  Dol  Haiarn  :  Wm:  Wj'iin  ap  Wm.  W.  ap  S.  Wynn  &c. 

260  Tratosfynydd :  Wm:  llvvyd  ap  S.  ap  Edw:  ap  gr:  &c. 
b.  Dyffryn  Kcb  iog :  Morys  Ilwyd  ap  To'  llwyd  &c. 

262  YRug :  Plant  Robt.  Salbri  =  S.  /  huw  /  Piers  /  a  Sian 

263  HiraeUwg  :  p.  R.  ap  Mred:  =  Eobt:  /Ho:  /  Morys  Gethin  &c. 

264  Esgair  IVeddaii :  Harri  ap  Rys  ap  Edw:  ap  Rys  &c. 

265  Monachdy  :  John  Maredydd  ap  Huw  Mred:  &c. 

267-8  Imperfect  leaf  wi(h  pedigrees  entered  after  the  fashion  of  Robt.  Vaughan 
.  c.  1681. 

269  Mar:  dau  blentyn  a  foddasant  *  *  «  Rhiwedog  .  ?  1663  . 

Mae  .  .  rheswm  i  bob  cristion  a  feddo  galon  gwn  .  .  . 
ond  Cady  bach  a  lisa  ymbreichie'r  seintie  sydd       R.  ITy 

270  Holl  bobl  y  siriodh  Gwrandewch  arna  i  yn  siarad  .... 

a  hoiliou  drwy  i  glistia  ai  lais  dyn  i  bwyso 

Ow  ow  a  hoilion  drwy  &c,  Robin  Humphrey 

273  Gwrando  mabieth  meibion  glaa     ,     .     .     . 

mi'm  gvojssa  yu  rygul  ragddo  .  Jane  Fychan 

274  Pob  march  yn  rwydd  gwrandewch  y  rodd     .... 
tan  dafly  geiric  geirwon  Anon 

276       Bwngler  pen  Beger  y  byd  yw  Mathew  Ac. 

277-82  A  brief  description  of  the  arms  of  the  Pymtheg  llwyth  ^c. 
Gr:  ap  Conan  /  Maesgules  tri  llew  pass:  Argent  /  kyff  bonedd  .... 
[Mor]iddig  Warwyn  /  Sable  trififen  plentyn  arg :  Neidr  o  gwmpas 
gwddw  pob  vn  proper  /       kyS  cenedl. 


MS.  126  =  Hen.  171.  Welsh  Gkammak,  Pedigrees  &c.  Paper  ; 
lO;^  X  6J  inches ;  66  pages  more  or  less  stained  and  inter-leaved 
throughout ;  after  1505  ;  half-bound. 

The  contents  of  this  MS.  are  very  scrappy  and  difficult  to  catalogue.  Griffith 
Hiraethog  seems  to  have  used  the  pedigree  part  of  it.  It  is  noteworthy  that  pedi- 
gtlies  grow  fuller  and  more  minute  the  further  the  compilers  are  removed  from  the 
liille  when  the  '  ancestors  '  lived. 

Si/f  Rys  wi/n  person  Llan  ddvlas  pie  hum,  and  1  October  1605 
io  Si/lwnt}  Vylchan}     4d.     (p.  y.) 

1  DosBT  KvMRAic  or  a  fragment  of  Welhh  Grammar  .-* 

11  Yscrapan  o  sidan  sieb  A  sinobyl  dros  i  wneb  &c.     Gutt  or  gylyn 
Incipit  liber  Rackenio :  Both  yw  Rak  henw  ran  o  ymadrodd  a 

dreithir  a  ddodir  yn  He  priodol  henw  yn  vn  ryw  a  henw  hayach  &c. 

5  Gwelielh  hull  gymrv:  Dehevb[a]rth,  Gwent,   Dyvot  &c. 

6  tri  gioeli  klotheilh  :  (1)  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  Madoc  /  (2)  Rob*  ap 

Gwion  ap  Mad:  ap  Mabon  &c. 

7  Pvm  Brenhinllwyth :  Tewdwr  mawr  Rex  &c. 
l>,  Pymthec  llwith  Gwyneth :  gilmin  trovttv  &c. 

9  &  26  By wyd  Rychwin  ap  Elenoc  oydd  Trefkastell  y  Mon  a  hnmyii- 
yth  a  ifcnrryn  ....  llys  helic  ap  Elenoc  oyth  wrth  ynys  seirioel  &c. 

10  Some  particulars  concerning  the  descendants  ofEdn:  Vichan, 
13   Gwheliath  holl  hymrv  benbaladr  j  ddwyn  Iwff  byth  ^c. 

b.   Gweliayth  Slaylor  ;  Ow:  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  Gr:  or  Ruthallt  &c. 
(.[  Gr:  ap  Res  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  .  .  .  ap  Ow:  brogyntyu  &r.. 

d.  llaneUan]  Mered:  lloyd  ap  Sn  ap  Eyddylat  &c. 


*  See  pages  55,  57,  63  &  65  belo^r. 


PENTARTH  MANUSCRIPT   126.  773 

e.  Gwliaith  Tegitt :  dd:  ap  ^thelt  vidian  ap  k'n  &c. 
/.  fi  ap  Gr:  lloid  ap  Kobyn  ap  Res  &c. 

14  llicith  wchdrd  ap  Edwin  vrenin  :  feu:  ap  blethyn  ap  gr:  ap  0. 

b.  Howell  ap  Tudiir  ap  jftbel!  ap  ho:  &c. 

c.  Ihoith  Edrit :  Edn:  Vychaii  ap  k'n  ap  ]fer: 

15  Gwleaith  Nanav  :  Meib.  Mred:  ap  bletIiyn=Mad:  /  Gr:  /  Ho:  &c. 
b.   Gweliaith  Morganivc  :  Morgan  ap  kradoc  ap  ^estin  &c. 

16  Gwleth  Gwent :  Morgan  ap  Hwell  ap  Jer:  ap  Oayn 

17  llivyth  Morganivc :  k'n  sais  m[aes]  dv  iij  fen  gaw  o  arian 

Then  follows  a  descriptiou  of  the  arms  of  various  persons  including  Charle- 
magne, John  the  Baptist,  ^fudas,  the  prophet  David,  Brutui,  kamhcr,  Arthur, 
farddvr,  Edrit,  Sir  Res  ap  Thomas  ap  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  &o.  &c. 

21  &  46  xij  pwng  has  gan  ddvw :  dyn  beb  grevydd  na  Gweddi,  dyn 
)vank  heb  ddysc  Gwsnaythwr  beb  Gwilith  &c.  &c. 

b.  Tri  mab  a  vu  "]  wrchat  vrenyn  &c. 

22  &  27  Mon  :  Sir  Res  ap  To.  ap  G.  ap  N  .  .  0  dalybolion  y  Men. 

b.  (Llau  gerniwf)  :  Jeu:  ap  dd:  Uoyd  &c. 

c.  Hemvay  y  xv  Ihvith — pedwar  y  syth  yn  Ros. 

23  Dd:  Vychan  ap  dd:  loyd  Pedeyr  marched  oydd  vddo  fFe  &c. 
b.  Particulars  about  the  Deluge  in  Welsh  and  Latin. 

24  Tegeingl :  Hvw  ap  Regiart  trykarn  ap  K'n  ap  bethyn  &c. 

b.  Jios :  Res  ap  Eign:  Vichan  ap  ifeu:  ap  Res  &c. 

c.  &  42,  b.     Hvw  konwy  ap  llobyn  ap  Gr:  &c.  .  .  klotheith  Ac. 
26  Nomina  Gladiorum  :  Kalcdvwlch  'Jarthur  &c. 

28  Nant  Tegeingl :  Plant  Heilun  ap  Tudur  ap  Edn:  Vichan. 

29  Mibion  Mred:  ap  Tudur  ap  ho:  &c.  =  Kob:  /  Res 

b.  syr  ho:  ap  day  ap  ^thell  ap  k'n  ap  blethyn  &c. 

c.  Jthel  llojd   ap  Cad:  ap  llywarch  &c. 

<?.  &  1 1  Brynfanicl :  Rys  ap  'Jhankyn  ap  H  ap  Tomas  &c. 

30  Res  ap  ll'n  vychan  ap  ll'n  &c. 

b.  Edwart  ap  dd:  lloyd  ap  blethyn  &c. 

c.  Hvw  lewys  ap  ll'n  ap  Erddylad  &c. 

31  Dates  of  the  conjiug  of.  Lucius,  the  coronation  of  Arthur,  &c.,  the  deaths  of 
Jasper  ap  Owayu  comes  Pembrochie  1488,  of  Richard  bishop  of  St.  Asaph  &c.,  1501. 

32  iLyma  lyfr  Meyrch  ac  ebolion :  March  gwineay  myny[g]lwyn 
goreav  yw  oil  .  March  Ruth  Nessaf  ir  gorav  &c. 

6.  &  6  llevad  mevn  dwyrain  nov  orllewin  Hon  a  yrr  Uanw  diskethryin  &c. 
c.  Jn  nydd  lloyr  newydd  ar  naw  y  glooh  y  cwelych  y  Uanw  yn  eithaf  &c. 

33  The  obits  of  Welsh  princes  &c. 

36  The  first  coming  of  Hengist,  and  (b)  the  death  of  Arthur, 
c.  Kyuddelw  ap  blethyn  ap  k'n  vichan  &c. 

37  Jhon  trefor  ap  Edwin  ap  dd  &c. 

b.  Pen  losket  yscopty  llaneWy  CCCC  vj 

c.  Plane  Henri  ap  Tudur  a  k'n  ap  ^er:  ap  gogan,  a  ho:  dd:  Gr:  Der  was 

d.  Pwrys  Gvvregis  delis  diala  .... 

Neithiorav  fasti  na  tharia  yn  wych 
Ac  lie  delych  y  dylid  y  vwytta. 

e.  few:  lloyd  ap  Gr:  ap  Gro.  ap  ho^  &c. 

38  Edn.  vychan  ap  dd:  lloid  &c. 

b.  Mred:  lloyd  ap  ll'n  ap  gr:  ap  Erddylat  &o. 

c.  0.  ap  Gr:  Vichan  ap  Gr:  or  Ruthallt  &c. 

d.  Gr:  ap  Res  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  &c. 

e.  {llanelian]:  dd:  anwyl  ap  Jhon  ap  11'  ap  gr:  &c.) 

39  Plant  Tudur  ap  Grono,  a  fylip  ap  f  thel,  a  grono  vychan,  a  gr:  ap 
Ed:,  ac  Ed:  vichan,  ac  Ed:  o  Tangt  &c. 


t  In  the  hand  of  Gr.  Iliraethog  apparently.     Also  in  the  same  hand,  "  darfv  yr 
ail  kasgl  \hf>  &  157  "  (p.  13  &  16). 


774  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   126. 

40  A  list  of  Welsh  princes,  with  some  pedigrees. 

41  Eobt:  ap  ^eu:  V3'chan  ap  Madoc  &c. 

b.  Mon:  U'  ap  Ilulkyn  ap  ho:  ap  ^ei':  ddu  &c. 

42  Jhon  Mailryn  ap  Mad:  ap  ^eu:  ap  Kes  &c. 

b.  Merclicd  dd:  vychan  ap  dd:  lloyd  &c. 

c.  Saith  aiucjjlddyn  duw  :  ifeuaii  vyrigylwr  &c. 

43  llwith  Pen  Ryn  :  Dd :  ap  Gr"  ap  Jeu:  ap  Mred:  &o. 

b,  Kyhydeth  naiv  ban  :  Withot  criadr  byd  bid  vynp;obaith  .... 

dan  y  neff  kainllef  kynllith  IJd:  ap  Edniwnt 

c.  Rodri  mawr  .  .  a  dvc  ]ach  at  Vair  drwy  hen  lyfrav  kardarum 
hambric :  ending  with  references  to  prince  Ei'n  being  slain  "  by 
treachery,"  to  tiio  death  of  his  brother  David  &c. 

44  Jhon  ap  Gr:  vichan  ap  ll'n  ap  pleth  &c. 

45  Hiacheu  kadvvaladr,  a  Gwenfrewy,  ac  Elien 
b.  plant  Ilellc  ap  elenoc,  and  Pvmoes  byd. 

46  &  55  heiiihis  bodovn  :  k.  Ovrai  gywydd,  k.  kas  gaa  dinkyr  &c. 

47  ILyfyr  kerddwriayth  .  .  a  ddysc  J  ddyn  ydnbod  beiav 
Jierth  davod.  Keliydedd  verr  a  vessurrir  o  benillion  byrrion  oil  o 
vii)  sill  bob  vu  vel  kyn  : 

Gwann  wyf  o  gwyf  n  glaf  drymaint  &c. 
Then  follow  rules  conoerning  the  24  meters  with  brief  examples  ending  with — 
Towthgyrch  kadwnoc  :  bvddiant  y  veyrrdd  vyrddav  dramwy  &c. 
49  Bellaeh  y  dywedir  am  veiav  kerdd  davot  mewn  kywddav  ac 

Odlav   ac  eng]ynio7i  &c ends :  bay  arall  arno  i  vot  heb  air 

toddait  ynddo. 

51  Mam  Res  ap  R.  Gwelliara  benddv  o  edeyrnion  &c, 

52  Kay  vawl  telyn  nad  ni  yn  gelyn     .... 

yn  lie  ]  gwelir  yn  lliw  golav  feu;  ap  rytherch 

53  Mill  yn  dwyn  krist  vegls  dyn  krwm     .... 

or  vyngbwyn  ir  vyngliywaith  Guttyn  or  Glyn 

54  Mynwn  y  mod  mewn  vn  Man    .     »    .    . 

Nis  brodiay  ynys  bryd[ain]  Guttyn  or  glyn 

55  "  ExpUsit  liber  donati  ".   Pa  wedd  ir  ednehyddir  aplia  (?)  ; 
Pan  ddel  vn  or  vj  arwdd  liynn  o  vlayn  hennw. 

b.  Yn  Rrvaiii  i  roydd  gwydyr  ac  yn  y  gwydyr  i  rroyd  #  *  *  *  &c. 

56  Nant :  Wm;  ?  vychau  ap  Gwilim  ap  Heilura  &e. 

b.  Brynffanicl :  Merch  Robin  lloyd  ap  Gr:  .  .  Erddylad  &c. 

57  Rac  veryf:  rackw     vchod     isod     yngod  &c.  See  p.  1  supra 

58  Doytli  ithwisodd  iesv     .... 

atheihvng  o  beth  ithefoles  jfollo  goi 

59  (Tervvyn  tan  gwn  garen  *  #  *  *  &c.) 

b.  (Wrth  dodrav  may  gwniv  gwnias  &c.) 

c.  (Dilis  nam  perchis  perchen  kanllydyn  &c.) 

60  Eira  Mynydd  hydd  llongwydd  // 
rredid  eberydd  ryd  afrwydd     .... 
odid  or  kant  kydymaith. 

61  Gwelwnn  drwy  vy  hvn  nid  rrvn  nid  rron     ,     ,     ,     i 

A  vo  dihonglydd  gwerydd  gwrrion  Gr:  ap  Ttidur  go^ 

b.,  56,  66  klotheith  :  Plant  Madog  klotheith  am  Mad:  vichan  &c. 
C5  Grammar  :  Pa  rai  y  w  Tatogion  //  mi    ti     ef    hwnn  &c. 


THK  BOOK   OF   SYR  THOMAS  AP  JEUAN   AP  DEIKWS.       775 

MS.  127  in  two  parts.  JLyvyr  Syr  Thomas  ap  Jeuan  ap  Deik%vs 
SfC.  Pedigrees,  Heraldry,  Boned  y  Seint,  xxiv  MiRCiioo 
Urdol,  Compod  Mannwei,,  Poetry,  first  Caerwys  Eistedvod,  &c. 

Part  I.  =  Hen.  194.  Paper;  121x8^  inches;  pages  1-256, 
beautifully  written  ;  compiled  by  Sir  Thomas  ap  ^euan  ap  Deikws  about 
the  year  1510  (p.  110),  with  additions  after  the  Eistedvod  was  held  at 
Caerwys  in  1523  (p.  202  infra)  ;  imperfect. 

Part  11.  =  Hen.  443.  Paper;  ll|x7|  inches;  pages  257-88; 
written  between  the  years  1531-44  (see  p.  27 i,b,  infra)  ;  imperfect. 
Both  parts  have  been  mended  and  bound  together  in  half  morocco. 

Part  ii  is  evidently  a  copy  to  some  extent  of  Part  i,  which  seem  to  he  the  original 
o£  Mostyn  MS.  113.  Griffith  Hiraethog  has  used  Part  ii  as  witnessed  by  his 
handwriting  on  pages  264,  271-3.  We  find  the  names  of  Thomas  ap  Ll'n  on  p.  170, 
Edward  Griffithe  on  pp.  97  and  213,  and  Eichard  Wynne  his  book  1726,  on  pages  17, 
&o.,  and  Thomas  Philips  of  Bhyd  y  Kilgwyn  (p.  71). 

The  following  note  in  the  hand  of  Thomas  Paynter  occurs  on  the  margin  of 
page  69  :   "  A   Welsh   History  of  Eohert  Davits  Esqr     Lent  by   Consent   of  Mr 
Bagiugton  and  Thomas  Paynter  to  one  John  Euan  of  Bychymbyd  -.   in  Koome  of 
another  Booli  Lent  to  my  old  Master,     vrittness    John  Spann :  Thomas  Paynler." 
83  Margin. — "  Eees  Johns  is  and  an  John  Euaus  is  book 

"  Llwun  o  ddusg  a  llawn  o  dda  Uafar  amod  iw  yr  llufr  yma 
"  wirut  fare  an  dw  not  fear  mak  no  blot 

"  a  man  of  words  an  nod  in  did  is  leik  a  garden  fylo  of  wied  wide." 
85  &  87  Margins. — fel  Eouddwn  fereuddudd  rhwng  maiiuol  a  mynudd 
a  doludd  a  manwudd  a  meinwen  im  go     .     .     .     , 
Ewch  gnelwch  folianu  yr  iesu  yn  ddi  rus 
1  &  276  b.  Pvmp  brenhinllwyth  kymrv  /  ar  arvev  a  ddvgant, 
3  XV  llwyth  gwynedd  .  .  ac  arvev  Uawer  o  honynt. 
9  &  276  Emvev  y  naw  kwnghwericr  ai  harvev  .  .  ,  Ector  .  .  .  Due 
ifosue   ....    Dd:   brofEwyd    ....    Alexander   mawr  ....  ^udas 
Maccabeus  ....  lulius    sisar   ....  Arthur  ....  larls    breuhin 
ffrainc  .  .  .  Godffred  di  bwlen. 

12  A  description  of  the  arms  of  the  heroes  of  Geoffrey's  Historia  &c. 

SWYDDINBYCH 

17  Plant  Gr:  Vychan  ap  Gr:  ap  dd:  goch  &c.  =  Ho:  Coetmor,  Eys 
Gethin,  Rob:  a  Gr:  leiaf,  Margred  [married  ^euan  llwyd],  yngharad 
[married  Kyn:  ap  Rotbert],  and  their  descendants. 

20  Plant  Robin  ap  Gr:  Goj  =  Hvw  conwy/  a  John  /  a  marged  &c. 

21  Mred:  ap  dd:  ap  Einion  Vychan  ap  Jeu:  ap  Rys  &c. 

Edeirnion  a  Dinmael 

23  &  263  Ho:*  a  Gr:  meibion  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr;  <tc. 

28  &  266  Plant  Dd:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Einion  ap  Gr:  ap  ll'n  ap  hwlkyn  = 
Mastyr  Robert  /  thomas/ G;v  y  glynti  /  Bjr  John  effeiriad  /  Niclas  / 
Eydderch  /yngharad  g.  W.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

b.  Huw  gwynn  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  ap  jfeu:  ap  Einion  &c.  .  .  .  Mam 
H.  Gwyn  a  Gr:  y  glynn  i  vrawd,  a  gwenn  llwyd  .  ,  .  =Elsabeth 
V3  Gr:  ap  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

36  Plant  Elisse  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion  ap  Gr:  ap  ll'n  ap  kyn'=  Roger  / 
Tudyr  /  Rankin  /  Gr:  llwyd  /  John  Wynn  /  dd:  llwyd  /  a  Eisiart/  &c. 

40  Plant  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  O.  bro  gvntvn  =  Ho:  a  Gr.  &c. 
■  41  Rys  ag  ow:  meib  ^eu  ap  dd:  ap  feu:  ap  Giwn  llwyd  &c. 

42  Mam  Ho:  Coetmor  ap  Gr:  vychan  oedd  wladus  &c. 

43  Bonedd  y  seint  :  Dewi  ap  eant  ap  keredic  ap  Cvnedda 
wledic  ....  ends  :  Kyngar  /  a  lestin  /  a  Cattw  a  Selyf  meibion 
geraint  ap  Erbin  ap  Custenin  gornev  ap  kynvar  ap  tudwal  ap  kurmwr 

*  Followed  by  the  pedigree  of  bis  mother,  grandmother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 


776  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  127. 

nev  morvawr  o  henw  arall  ap  Caden  ap  Kynan  ap  Evdaf  ap  Caradoc 
op  bran  ap  llyr  lediaith 

49  Brijchan  hrycheinioc  ap  anllech  corvnawc  &c. 

b.  Plant   brychan   /  kynawc   ap   b.  .  .  .  a   banhadlwedd   verch 
banadle  o  vaiibadla  ynihowys  i  vam  &c.  &c. 

62  Gorev  ysv  kynn  gorwedd  trwm  .  .  .  karv  duw  .  .  . 
duw  vara  gorfE  dwfra  gwin  ydiw  oil  o  dyallwn 

6.  M  .cccc  xlvij  .  .  .  bv  varw  £syr  Gr:  Vychan  Marchoc  vrddol  o 
bowys  nawved  dydd  o  .  .  orfEenaf. 

53  MoN :  Huw  a  Watkyn  meib  John  lewys  ap  huw  ap  ll'n  ap 

hwlkyn  ap  ho:  ap  ^orwerth  ddv  &c. 

54  k.  talybolion :  Wiliam  Ho:  a  ll'n  meib  Rys  ap  Rob.  ap  ho:  &c. 
6.  Plant  ywain  ap  mevric  :  Huw  /  John  /  Eolant  /  Gibwn  &c. 

c.  kymicd  twrhelyn ;  Hari  ap  Rys  ap  feu:  ap  ll'n  chwith  &c. 

55  k.  Menai :  Rich:  ap  Mred:  ap  thomas  ap  Mred  &c. 

b.  li.  dindaethwy :  John  ap  ywain  ap  tudyr  vychau  &c. 

c.  „  Rich:  a  Roland  /  meibion  Wm:  bwlkle  &c. 

d.  „  W.  /  tho:  /  dd:  /  Rob:  =  p.  W.  ap  gr:  ap  Robin 

e.  Sir  gaer  yn  Arvon:  Mred:  ap  f.  ap  Rob:  ap  Mi-ed:  ap  ho:  &c. 

57  H'u  ap  ifeu:  ap  Rys  gethin  ap  Gr:  vychan  &c. 

b.  Rys  Wynn  ap  dd:  ap  jankyn  ap  dd:  Crach  &c. 
e.  Reinallt  ap  Meuric  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  Coetmor  &c. 

d.  Morys  /  ywain  /  a  ]feu:  meibion  John  ap  Mred:  ap  Jeu:  &c. 

e.  ll'n  ap  feu:  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  kyn  &c. 

/.  y  llechwedd  jssaf:  tudyr  ap  Rys  ap  Mad:  ap  ll'ii  &c. 

58  D''  Morys  gljnn  /  a  W.  glynn  /  meib  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  hwlkyn 
h,  Dauid  ap  Edn:  ap  Ho:  ap  kyn:  ap  Edn:_&c. 

c.  Rys  /  Mred:  /  a  jfeuau  /  meibion  ll'n  ap  Ho:  &c. 

d.  Robert  ap  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  ]feu:  vychan  &c. 

e.  SwYDDiNBYCii:  Robert  /  Ho:  /  Morys  gethin  /  dd:  kydwaladr 

meibion  ocddynt  i  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  Tudyr  &c. 
60  Robert/ dd:  Ihvyt  yr  hynaf  /  lewys  /  dd:  feuaf  /  ifeu:  a  Mred:/ 

meibion  tudyr  ap  feu:  ap  tudyr  ap  Gr:  &c. 
h.  John  /  syr  W.  /  Sandyr  /  a  hari  /  meib  Rob:  ap  f .  ap  Tudyr  &c. 
c.  Jolo  goch  ap  f thel  goch  ap  kyn:  ap  fer:  ap  kyn:  ap  y  dewis 

herod  ap  Cowryd  ap  perfarch  ap  farddur  &c. 

d.  feu:  ap  Mad:  ap  Rys  ap  fthel  ap  gr: 
lios  vwch  dulas  ac  )s  dvlas 

e.  dd:  ap  ll'n  ap  gr:  llwyt  ap  Robyn  ap  Rys 

/.  gr:  llwyt  /  ho:  /  ywain  /  dd:  =  meibion  feu:  ap  Rys  &c. 

ff.  Einion  ap  Rys  llwyt  ap  ll'n  ap  Tudyr  ap  dd:  ap  einion  &c. 

//.  feu:  vychan  a p  ll'n  ap  Tudyr-ap  dd:  &c. 

61  IL'n  ap  Tudyr  ap  feu:  ap  Gr:  ap  dd:  ap  einion  &c. 
6.  IL'n  ap  tho:  ap  dd:  gam  ap  kyn:  llwyd  &c. 

c.  Huw  Conwy  ap  Robyn  ap  gr:  goch 

d.  Gr:  /  W.  /  Rob:  /  syr  d.  llwyd  /  O.  ac  f  =  p.  /  J,  ap  gr:  goch 

e.  Edny ved  vychan  /  heilin  sais  /  Gronw  voel  /  Einion  ddv  bastart 

=  meib  kyn:  ap  fer:  ap  Gwgon 
/.  Eyv[o]nioc  :  Syr  gr:  ap  Einion  ap  Tudyr  ap  heilyn  goch  &c. 
g.       Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Tudyr  ap  Ho:  &c. 

62  Dd:  llwyt  ap  Gr:  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  llwyd  &c. 

b.  llwyth  gollwyn :  Eydderch  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  feu:  &c. 

c.  Thomas  ap  John  Madrvn  ap  Mad:  ap  feuan  &c, 

d.  Mred:  ap  dd:  ap  Einion  vychan  ap  feu:  ap  Rys  &c. 

e.  feu :  ap  Mad:  ap  Rys  ap  f thel  ap  Gr:  &c. 

/.       feu:  ap  Rys  llwyd  ap  Rys  ap  fer:  ap  ll'n  &c. 


THE  BOOK  OF  StH  THOMAS  AP  ^fEUAN  AP  DEIKWS,        777 

63  Mad:  llwyd  Sirif  ap  Einion  ap  Jthel  gocli  &e. 

64  ^eu:  ap  mad:  ap  Eys  ap  Jthel  ap  gr:  ap  jfthel  goch  &c. 

65  The  pedigrees  of  the  Mothers  of  Kicliard  Duke  of  York,  o£ 
Rich:  Mortimer,  of  Lionel  duke  of  Oliirens,  of  Edw:  iii,  of  Rich:  earl 
of  Cambridge,  of  Edmund  earl  of  Eichinoiul,  of  0\v:  np  Mred:  ap 
Tudur,  of  Dd:  Vychau  ap  dd:  llwyd,  of  Ho:  vychau  ap  Mred:  ap 
^er:  /  of  dd:  llwyd  ap  kyn:  ap  Grocw,  of  Gr:  ap  dd:  gocli,  of  llelin  ap 
syr  Tudyr  .  .  .  ap  *bcU  ap  Rvn  ap  maelgwn  gwynedd,  of  Mre.l:  ap 
Tudyr,  of  dd:  ap  Gr:  ap  ll'n  ap  jfer:  /  of  Tho:  ap  ll'n  ap  yH'ain,  of 
Tudyr  ap  Gronw,  of  Madoc  of  Hendwr,  of  Madoc  ap  Gr:  filaelor,  of 
Gronw  ap  Ow:  ap  Edwin,  of  Gronw  ap  Tudyr  ap  Gronw  ap  Edn: 
vychan,  of  the  lord  Eys,  of  Gr:  ap  E.  ap  Tewdwr,  of  Gr:  ap  ll'n  ap 
■far:  drwyndwn,  of  Ow:  gwynedd,  of  Gr:  ap  kynan,  of  kynan  ap 
Jago,  of  Mad:  ap  Mred:  ap  Bleddyn,  of  Cadell  ap  Eodri,  of  Eodri 
mawr,  of  Mervyn  vrych,  of  Elidir  ap  Sandef,  of  Oadwaladr  vendigaid, 
of  Cadwallon  ap  Cadvaa,  of  Beli  aj)  Evn,  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd  and 
of  Oaswallon  Uawhir. 

76  Plant  Gr :  ap  kynan  =  Ow:  gwynedd  /  Cadwaladr  /  Cad- 
wallon /  &c.  Then  follow  lists  of  the  children  of  Cadwaladr 
ap  Gr:  ap  k,,  of  Einion  ap  Cadwaladr,  of  Ow:  gwynedd,  of  Cailwallon 
ap  G.  ap  k.,  of  ^er:  drwyndwn,  of  Ki'n  ap  jfer:  /  of  Dd:  ap  IL'n,  of 
Gr:  ap  IL'n,  of  Eodri  mawr,  of  Anarawd,  of  Brawst,  of  Meuric  ap 
Jdwal,  of  Cadell  ap  Eodri,  of  Ow:  ap  Ho:  dda,  of  Mred:  ap  Ho:  dda, 
of  Eysap  Mred:  /  of  Mervyn  andGwriad  sons  of  Eodri,  of  Einion  ap 
Ow:  ap  Ho:  dda,  of  Tewdwr  Mawr,  of  Eys  ap  Tewdwr,  of  the  lord 
Eys  and  his  sons  Gr:  &  Maelgwn,  of  Bleddyn  ap  Kynvyn,  of  Mred 
ap  bleddyn,  of  Jthel  ap  Eirid,  of  Mevric  llwyd  ap  Mevric  vychan,  of 
Cunedda  wledic,  of  Meiriawn  meirionnydd,  of  Arwystl  ap  Cvnedda, 
of  Einion  yrth  and  other  sons  of  Cunedda. 

86  Ejyma  y  tri  lie  y  daliwyd  arglwyddiaeth  Gwynedd  o  gogail  .  . 
Stratweul  ne  Seradwen  V3  Gadvan  ap  Kynan  a  g.  Koel  godeboc  .  .  . 
Gwawl  V3  G.  godeboc  a  mam  Cunedda  wledic  a  mam  Eodri  mawr  .  ,  , 
ar  drydedd  vv  Essyll  v'ch  gynan  diudaethwy. 

b.  Bonedd  Einion  ap  Crwalchmai  ap  meilir  ap  mabon  &c. 

87  „       HiDva  ap  hynddelw  ap  kwnw.?  ap  killin  &c. 

90  „       Bran  ap  dinawal  ap  Evnydd  ap  Alan 

6.  B.    Givyr  Pentraeth :  Robert  ap  Madoc,  Dd:  ap  Tegwai-et, 
Ednyved  vychan,  Gr:   ap  Riwallon,  a  ^er:  ap  jfdon. 

91  B.  Gwyr  Arvon:  Kyfnerth  vychan,  Eiwallon  ap  kynddelw 
ap  Gwrydr,  Mad:  ap  Eanawt,  &  ^er:  goch. 

92  ILicyth  gollwyn :  Merwydd,  Eginir,  ac  Ednyved  meib  CoUwyn 
ap  Tangno  ap  Cadvael  ap  lludd  Gwynn  ..aw  ddistaen  &c. 

b.  Asser  /  a  Gwgon  /  a  Meirion  /  meib  Meuric  ap  tangno  &e. 
c»  p.  hedd  ap  moivnoc  ap  Greddyf  =  Nevtor  /  gwyllonon  a  Gwrgi 

93  Pvmeib  kenev  ap  Coel  hen  priodawr  or  gogledd,  Padarn, 
Gorwst,  Gormonion,  Mar,  Maesgwic,  Cloff  and  their  descendants 

b.  Plant  llywarch  hen  j  Gwen,  llawr,  Mechydd,  pill  &c. 

94  „       Vrien  ap  kenvarch  /  ywain,  Evn,  Riwallon  &c. 

95  The  pedigrees  of  Eydderch  hael,  Mordaf  hael,  Elffiu,  Gawran, 
Elidir  mwynvawr,  Gwydien  astrus,  Jevan  a  cheuev,  Deigr  ac  aurdejrn 
a  chynan  glodrydd,  Gwythyr  a  Greidiol  galon  hydd,  and  Bran  galed 
or  gogledd. 

*  "  Tn    yr    ach    honn    y  mae  ymravacl ystoria   Gildas  .  .  a  ddywaid 

beli  ap  Einion  ap  MaelgwD.  A  Uyfrav  hen  achoedd  a  ddywaid  beli  ap  Rvn  ap 
Maelgwn.  Ac  ni  vedrais  i  dorri  yr  ymrysson  hwnnw  .  ae  am  bynny  mi  ai  gadaf 
ymarn  y  darlleawdr  "  (p.  70). 

y  98430.  H  H 


778  ,  PENIARTH  MANUSOMPT  127. 

* 
96  XXTV  o  varchogion  vrddolion  oedd  yn  llys  Arthur  yn  trigo 
ynwastadol  a  chynneddf  naturiol  o  orchest  oedd  ar  hob  vn  o  naddvnt 
mwy  noc  ar  cruill  .  Tri  marchoc  aur  davodiawc  /  .  .  Gwalclimai  .  . 
a  drudwas  .  .  .  ac  elivvlod  .  ,  .  ends :  Tri  cliynghoriad  varchoc  oedd 
yn  llys  Arthur  kynon  ap  klydno  Eiddvn  /  Ac  aron  ap  kenvarch  /  a 
llywarch  hen  .  ,  .  .  yr  oedd  Arthur  yn  Gorvotl  ar  bawb  ac  ar  bob 
gorchest  a  phob  kenedlaeth  or  byd  drwy  gydernyd  yr  ysbryd  kiidarn 
ar  ffydd  ar  Gobaith  a  oedd  yn  i  galonn  ir  Gwyr  hynny  /  a  thrwy  yr 
arvev  kyssegredic  a  roessai  dduw  ]ddo  /  Ron  Gonian  i  waew  /  Caled- 
Ywlch  i  Gleddyf  /  A  charn  wennan  i  ddager. 

98  Enwev  kleddyvev  miliwr  /  Caledvwlch  .  .  .  /  Angev  glas  &c, 

b.  Gwehelyth  Deheubarth  :  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  E.ys  ap  Tewdwr 

c.  G.  kayo :  Dd:  vongam  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  &c, 

d.  G.  P.  Vadoc :  Gr:  Maelor  /  ac  y  wain  vychan  ac  Elissev  &c. 

e.  G.  P.  Wenwynwyn :  Gr:  ap  G.  ap  ywain  kyveilioc  &c. 

99  G.  ArwystU  :  Ho:  ap  ^.  ap  ywain  ap  Trehayarn  &c. 

b.  „  Mred:  ap  Ein"  ap  kynvelyn  ap  DolSyn  &c. 

c.  „  Ywain  ap  dd:  ap  Ein"  ddistain  ap  ]fer:  &c. 

d.  kyveilioc :  Gronw    ap  Edn:   ap  Seisyllt  gwraic   ronw  oedd 
Meddevus  ^5  Owain  kyveilioc 

e.  Mechein  is  Coed :  Jerweith  voel  ap  jfevaf  Sais  &c. 

100  Generdinlle  ar  xi  tref  Cresvan  :  Syr  Roger  ap  Gr:  ap  ^ankyn 

b.  JLwydiarlh  ymhotmjs :  kelynin  ap  Ririd  ap  kynddelw  &c. 

c.  Aber  Tanad :  Mied:  vychan  ap  yr  hen  Mred:  &c. 

d.  Iiegidva :  Gwynn  ap  Gr:  ap  beli  ap  Selyf  ap  brochwel  &c. 

e.  Burgeding  ymhlwyf  kegidva  :  'Jthel  goch  ap  dd:  &c. 

f.  Ymain  :  )erwerth  vychan  ap  Jer:  goch  &c. 

101  Caer  Einion  :  Gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  dd:  ap  Gr:  vychan  / 

b.  hadwynvain  ymechen  vwchkoed:  Gr:  deg  ap  Gr:  ap  Einion 

c.  ystrad  alvn  :  ILywelyn  ap  kyn:  Evell  ap  Mad:  &c. 

d.  krukieth  yn.  S.  groesysswallt :   Einion  grevlon  ap  Ein"  &e. 

e.  heri :  Mred  ap  Maelgwn  Ac,  (6)  Kandwl  ap  Jenverth  ap  Tre- 
hayarn &c.,  (c)  Einion  ap  ho:  ap  Tudyr  &c. 

102  Meilienydd  rrwng  gwy  a  h. — Cadwallon  ap  Mad,  ap  ]fdnertli 
h.  Elvael  is  mynydd  a  glynn  bwch  :  ^vor  hen  ap  J .  ap  llywarch 

c.  Aber  Edw  yn  E.  vwcft  mynydd:  Ywain  ap  M.  ap  Einion  &e. 

d.  „  „  „  Cadwgon  ap  G.  ap  Ho:  Saia 

103  G.  o  Vtiellt ;  Rickert  ap  Einion  ap  Gr:  ap  Rickert  &c. 

b.  „  Y  moelyn  (ll'n  oedd  i  Enw  bedydd)  ap  Mred:  hen 

c.  „  y  brych  kadarn  a  Elwid  Einion  ap  Mred:  hen  &c. 

d.  Brecheinioc :  Trehayarn  argl:  ap  Trehayarn  vychan  Ac. 

e.  „  Bleddyn  ap  Maynyrch  ap  drvm  bennawc  &c. 

104  Gioent :  Morgant  ap  Ho:  ap  Jer:  ap  ywain  &c. 

b.  Sainhenydd :  Gr:  ap  jfvor  ap  Meuric  vychan  &c. 

c.  Gwevnllwc  a  Dyvet :  Ywain  ap  Elen  v}  lywarch  ap  hyveidd 

d.  Morganniuc  :   Morgant  ap  Caradoc  ap  Jestin  &c. 

105  Merionnydd :  Ynyr  vychan  ap  ynyr  ap  mevric  &c. 

b.  Edeirnion  a  dinmael:  Gr;  /  'Jer:  a  bleddyn  p,  O.  brogvutyn 

c.  Nan  conwy  :  Ho:  Coetmor  ap  Gr:  vychan  .  .  .  ap  dd:  goch  &c. 

d.  G.  o  Wynedd :  Einion  ap  Collwyn  goec  ap  Ednywain  &c. 

e.  G.  0  Veirionnydd :  Kynan  ap  brochwel  ap  Edn:  meirionydd  &c, 

106  G.  Penllyn :  Meiriawn  ap  Uenvoddeii  ap  Roet  ap  Donet  &c. 

b.  ILwyth  Penllyn  :  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  Gwrgenev  ap  GoUwyn  &c. 

c.  G.  0  ardudwy :  Bleiddud  ap  Caradoc  ap  ^evanawl  &c. 

d.  G.  Nannev :  Cadwgan  ap  bleddyn  /  a  llywarch  ap  B.  &c.  « 

e.  kydewain :  Mred:  ap  Roppert  ap  llywarch  ap  Trehayarn  &c. 

107  Dyjff:  Clwyd :  Cowryd  ap  Cadvan  ap  Alawc  wr  ap  }dic  &c. 


THE  BOOK  OF  SYR  THOMAS  AP  fEUAN  AP  DEIKWS.    779 

b.  Docveiling  :  Kynwric  ap  Alaeth  ap  Elgud  &c. 

c.  Eos:  Ho:  varf  vehinawc  /  ap  Oaradoc  ap  meirioii  &c. 
EjWI'thev  r  3Iars. 

d.  Tvdur  trevor  ap  ynyr  ap  kadvarcli  a[)  Gwi-weiiev  &,c. 

e.  KiWYTH  Trevor :  feuaf  ap  adda  ap  awr  ap  feu:  iip  kvlielyu  &c. 

108  NanhevdiDij :  'Jei'werth  voel  ap  ]fer:  vvchan  ap  yr  lien  'jo.v:  &c. 
h.  Maelor  gymraec :  kyn:  ap  Riwallon  ap  dyiisad  &c. 

c.  Llannerch  bannn  :  lonas  ap  Grouvv  ap  Tud:  ap  Eys  &c. 

d.  Bortvn  ymaelor :  Sanddef  liardd  ap  Oaradoc  hardd  &c. 

e.  Tref  Alvn  :  Evnydd  ap  G-wenllian  V3  Rys  ap  Marchan  &c. 
/.  Evtyn,  Sonli  ac  Erddlys :  Elidir  ap  Eys  sais  ap  Edn: 

g.  Dudlyston  yn  y  Traean  ;  Tfddon  ap  Rys  Sais  &c. 
h.  S.  y  Dreiven  :  Syr  W.  Pevyr  ap  Gronw  ap  Tndyr  ap  E.  Sais. 
i.  Devddwr  a  mechain  :  Syr  Roger  powys  ap  G.  ap  T,  ap  E.  S  . 

109  G.  kae  Ho:  a  Chrevddyn  :  ^er:  goch  ap  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
h.  hjnlleith  :  Einion  evell  ap  Mad:  ap  Mred:  ap  B.  &c. 

c.  Tegeingl :  Edwin  ap  Gronw  vrenhin  Tegeingl  &c. 

d.  Eduywain  bendew  ap  kynon  .  .  veiniad  &c. 

e.  Tri  meib  a  vv  i  Tudyr  Trevor  :  Uuddycka  /  Dyngad  /  Gronw 

f.  Ednyved  a  Hwva  a  Nyniaw  meib  Vjn-.jy  rrain  bioedd  swydd 
gaer  a  sw}'dd  ymwythic  a  thnlm  o  bowys  vadoc  &c. 

110  Llyma  achoedd  y  gwr  a  ysgrivenodd]  y  llyvyr  hwnn  0.  C.  ISIO. 

Syr  thomas  ap  7euan  ap  dd:    [vel  deicus  (p.  Ill)]  ap  kyn:  ap  ^er:  ap  kynwric  / 
ap  jthel  /  and  collateral  relations. 

116  Mastyr  Huw  trygarn  .  a  elwid  Ilowel  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn 
b.  Maelor :  Twain  evtyn  ap  Wm:  ap  John  ap  James  &c. 

117  Plant  )ouet  gwraic  briod  J.  aer  0  Conwy  =  Tho:  /fiwc,  &c. 
Swyddinbych :  The   genealogies   and   collateral   relations   of  the 

husbands  and  wives  of  Cvvstans,  Kattrin,  Hari,  John,  Eobert,  Elsabeth 
&  Jonet,  the  children  of  Thomas  lien  o  Salbri 

123  Tegeingl :  The  maternal  ancestors  of  D.  ap  "j.  ap  Ho:  ap  kyn. 

124  Mam  llevkv  llwyd  =  wladus  v'ch  Mad:  llwyd  &c. 

b.  Mam  '].  ap  Ho:  ap  kyn:  ap  'Jer:  v'n  yngharad  V5  ").  Wyddel  &c. 

125  Mam  dd:  vychan  ap  Dd:  llwyd  =  yngharad  v.  Ho:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

b.  m.  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  Mad:  Cloddaith  :=  gattrin  v.  Eobin  ap  gr:  &c. 

c.  Syr  Ho:*  ap  dai  ap  'Jthel  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

126  Dd:*  ap  'Jthel  vychan  ap  kyn:  ap  Eotpert  &c. 

128  Tho:*  argl:  abad  diuasbasin  ap  dd:  pennant  &c. 

129  Ho:  ap  Tudyr  ap  Ithel  vychan  his  brothers,  children  &e. 

130  Eys  ap  kyn:  ap  Rotpert  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

131  Ystradalvii :  Dd:  llwyd*  ap  bleddyn  ap  Gr:  ap  heilin  &c. 

132  Teg'l,  y.  alvn:  Kicolas  ap  Deicus  ap  Gronw  ap  Gr:  graeh. 
b.         „         „  Gr:  goch*  ap  gr:  ap  Cadwgon  ap  Jer:  &c. 

133  Jthel  wynn*  ap  Nicolas  ap  Gwynn  &c. 

134  Dyffryn  Clwyd :  John*  ap  Mred:  ap  leu:  llwyd  &c. 

136  „  „  Tudyr*  ap  ll'n  vychan  ap  ^olyn  &c. 

137  Merionnydd :  Dd:*  ap  Meuric  vychan  ay  ho:  selyf  &c. 

b.  Tudyr  vyclian  ap  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  gr:  Derwas  &c. 

c.  Ho:*  ap  Tho:  ap  dd:  ap  jeu:  &c. 

138  Tudyr  ap  Eys  ap  dd:  ap  Gr:  llwyd  &c. 

b.  Syr  Wiliam*   Siambyrlen  ag  vstus  gwynedd  ap  syr  Wm:  ap 
Wm:  vychan  Siambyrlen  hen  ap  Gwilym  ap  Gr:  &c. 
140  Penllyn :  Ho:  llwyd*  ap  Dd:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
6.     (Pan  fv  new[y]ddv  nevaddoydd  Assa oyd  duw  .  .  1533) 

*  Followed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  mother,  grandmother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 
t  This  statement  in  the  third  person  and  the  "  quoth  Sir  Thomas  "  (p.  205  below) 
imply  that  MS.  127  is  a  transcript  rather  than  the  original, 

H  H   2 


780  PENURTH  MANUSOEIPT  127. 

141  (Yn  oydyran  priflan  raedd  pyraw  maytli  akw  pymthekant  a  devnaw 

y  dovd  vsdvs  da  dysdaw  i  rrvddlaa  dre  rodd  lawn  dyraw) 

b.  Morgan  ap  John  ap  ]eu:  ap  Rys  ap  feu:  &c. 

c.  (0  farglwydd  na  farna  fi  yn  ol  fyDgweithredoedd  fy  hvn  &c.) 

142  Penllyn  -.  ^eu:  ap  Mred:  ap  ]feu  ap  Tydyr  &c. 
h.  John  ap  jfeu:  ap  Einion  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  &c. 

c.  John  ap  jfankyn  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  &c. 

d.  {Arwystli :  'Jeu:  y  glyii*  ap  Morys  ap  I'ankyn  &c.) 

e.  (Mred:  ap  ywain  ap  dd:  ap  griffri  &c.) 

/.  (Lewys  ap  Morys  ap  Jeu:  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c.) 

143  Edernion  :  Ho:*  ap  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  ll'n  ddv. 

144  Aneystli:  John  goch*  ap  dd:  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 

145  „  ll'n  ap  5fou:  ap  Mred:  ap  Jeu:  llwyt  &c. 

b.  Kydewain:  Mred:  ap  Adda  moel  ap  Gwilim  ap  Ho:  &o. 

c.  {Kyveilioc  :  ll'n  ap  Morys  ap  Ho:  ap  ll'n  &c.) 

d.  [Jal:  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  gronw  &c.) 

146  KydeiMiin  :  Tho:*  ap  Rys  ap  dd:  llwyd  &6. 

147  ,,  Edwart*  ap  Ho:  ap  ]feu:  llwyd  &c. 

148  (Dd:  llwyd  ap  Dd:  ap  Mathe  ap  Cadwaladr  &c.) 

149  Plant  Rotpert  ap  Jer:  ap  Ririd :  Jthel,  kynwric,  ll'n  &c. 

151  „       Ho:  ap  Morys  ap  J.  getJiin  ap  M.  Kyffin :  Mred;/ 
Ho:  vyclian  /  ll'n  &c. 

152  Plant  Heilyn  vrych  :  Gr:  llwyd,  ll'n,  and  their  children. 
h.    Vwch  Conwy:  Rys  up  Gl'm  ap  Jeu:  llwyd  ap  Gr:  &c. 

c.  Dehevbarth:  Syr  Gr:*  ap  Syr  Rys  ap  Tho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  &c. 

153  „  Syr  Jamys*  ap  Ywain  ap  Gr:  ap  Wilkoc  &c. 

b.  „         Rydderch  ap  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  ywain  arg:  y  ty wyn  &c. 

154  „         Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  Dd:  ap  Tho:  ap  ll'n  ap  dd .  &o. 
b-  „         ll'n  ap  Tudyr  ap  Gl'm  ap  Einion  &e. 

e.  Gwynedd :  Plant  Edn:  Vychan: — ^gronw,  Gr:  /  ll'n  .  /  ho:  /  Jer:  &c. 

155  Plant  D.  V"  ap  D.  llwyd  =  Margred,  Morvydd,  Gweurvyl  &c. 
b.  Powys:  John  argl:  P.  ap  Rich:  ap  Hari  ap  Jan  V3  Edw:  &c, 

156  Ywain  ap  Gr:  V°  argl:  Glyn  dyvyr  divy  ap  Gr:  &c. 

b.  Wiliam  ap  Wm:  ap  Gr:  ap  Robin  &c. 

c.  Ywain  up  Tudyr  V"  ap  Gtm  &c. 

d.  Dd:  ap  Rob:  ap  dd:  ap  Jeu:  vychan  &c. 

157  Aber  tanad :  Plant  D.  llwyd  ap  Gr:  -  Jeu:*  /  John*  /  a  Ro'^'. 

158  Penllyn  :  John*  ap  Ho:  V°  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  he.. 

169        „  Wm:  llwyd*  ap  Morys  ap  John  ap  Mred:  &c. 

160  Robyn  ap  Morgan  ap  Jer:  V"  &c. 

h.  IL'n*  ap  dd:  ap  Jer:  ap  Mad:  ddv  &c. 

c.  Syr  Roger*  o  kinast  ap  Gr:  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

162  Rob*  ap  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  &c. 

b.  John  ap  deicus  Vongam  ap  Mad:  ap  ll'n  &c, 

c.  Rob:*  ap  Jeu:  V"  ap  Mad:  ap  Ho:  &c. 

163  II  Mam  ywain  ap  Madog  .  .  .  Susanna  v.  Gr:  ap  kynau. 

6.  Mam  Dd:  Evtyu  ap  ll'n  .  .  .=.yngharad*  v.  Jevan  ap  Mred  &c. 
c.    „     Jeu:  ap  Mred:*  ap  Gr:  llwyd  =  Eva  v.  kyn:  sais  &c. 

164  „    Eys*  ap  Rotpert  =  levkv  v.  Rot.  ap  Jer:  &c. 

165  „     Einion*  ap  Gwalchmai  =  Ganilles  v.  Wrgenev*  &c. 

b.  „     Gr:*  ap  Edn:  V"  =  Wenllian  v.  yr  arg:  Rys  <&c. 

c.  „     ll'n*  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  &c.=  levkv  v.  Jev:  ap  Ph:  &c. 

166  „    Elisse  ap  JErwerth  =  Eva  v.  Mad:  ap  Gwenwynwyn*  &c. 

b.  „     Gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  =  hvnydd  v.  Evnydd  Sec. 

c.  "  „    Edn*:  ap  Gr:  =  yngharad  v.  Mad:  ap  ll'n  &c. 


*  Followed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  motbcr,  gi'andmotlier,  great  grandmother,  &(;. 


THE  BOOK  OF  SYR  THOMAS  AP  ^fEUAN  AP  DEIKWS.         781 

d.  Mam  Mad:  tip  Gr;  Maelor  =  yngharad  v.  ywain  gwynedd  &c. 

e.  „     Gr:*  ap  jfer:  ap  E°  g}  =  dibod  v.  s'"  Hara-wnd  o  pwlffordd 

167  „     ler:  ap  Einion  f{5  =  ivenlnoyvar  v.  )evaf  ap  H'n  &c. 

b.  „     Kyn:  Evell  =  Eva  v.  Mad:  &c. 

c.  Arthvr*  ap  vthvr  ap  Cwstenin  &c. 

d.  Meib  Edn:  vijchcm  o  von :  1,  Tudyr  bioedd  y  nant  a  llangynhaval  / 
2,  IVn  bioedd  y  krevddyn  .  /  5,  Rys  b.  Garthgarmon  .  /  ^,  ^er:  b.  aber- 
marlais  /  5,  Ho:  a  vv  Esoob  yn  Uannelwy  [1242-7]  ...  6,  Gronw  bioedd 
tref  y  Castell  ymou  /  Gr:  bioedd  yr  ben  glawdd  ai  berthynas  &c. 

e.  Plant  yr  argl:  Rys  :  1,  Gr:  argl:  Abcr  teivi  a  cheredlgion  /  2, 
"Eys  gryc  argl:  ystratywi/  3,  Mred:  getbin  argl:  kaerllion  ar  wysc  &c. 

168  Gr:*  ap  Mred:  gethiu  argl:  llanymddyl'ri  a  thai  y  llychev 
b.    Syr  Morgant*  ap  Mred:  ap  Gr:  ap  Mred:  gethin  &c. 

Hawdd  vyd  wawn  wryd  wenn  erian  /  yngharad  verch  vorgan 
lUwi'udd  aur  Uowrodd  arit"in  /  Uwyr  orev  merch  lliw  r  eiry  man  / . 
c.  merched  priodolion  yr  arg  Rys :  1,  Margred  mam  Gr:  ap  Gwea- 
wynwyn  /  2,  Gwenllian  gwraic  (a)  kynan  ap  Rodri  (6)  Edn:  vychan 
or  bwu  y  bv  iddi  ddav  vab  gronw  a  Gr:  tad  syr  howel.     Then  follow 
the  descendants  of  syr  Howel. 

169  Uywelya  ap  Ho:  vychan  o  vrecheinioc,  tad  syr  Dd:  gam  .  .  . 
a  las  yn  Eginkwrt  &c. 

b.    Roger  vychan  a  briodes  gwladus  v.  dd:  gam  ac  vddvnt  y  bv 
(/■)  Watkyn  vj'chau  argl:  brodorddyn  &c.  .  .  (2)  tbomas  argl:  Hergest 
a  bleddvach  &c.  .  .  .  (3)  S3'r  Roger  vychan  o  dref  y  twr  &c.  .  .  .  (/J) 
Mawd  gwraig  Rich:  Hacklet  &c.,  and  their  descendants  fpp.  170-3) 
171  p.  Kjv  Wm:  ap  tho:  arg:  Raclan  o  wladus  V5  D.  gam  &c. 

Gwraic  ^er:  Voel  oedd  wladus*  v.  Jer.  ap  Griffri  &c. 
b.    (nad  athrod  ynod  ynwaith 

na  chelwydd  na  choilia  rai  diflPaith     .... 

mae  tavod  a  chylod  ywch  Ian     .... 

genwchwi  gwen  ach  ivan     .... 

verch   'Jeuan  ap  Jenan  byth)         continued  apparently  on  p.  201. 

175  Ho*:  ap  gi'onw  ap  ^euan  ap  Gronw  ap  Hwva  &c. 

b.  Wiliam  Evtvn*  ap  John  ap  Jamys  ap  Mad:  &c. 

176  Mam  John*  evtvn  oedd  Wenllian  v.  kyn:  ap  Rotpert 

177  J.*  ap  Elis  ap  J.  Evtvn  &c.  a  ddaw  or  vn  inch  a  W.  Evtyn. 

178  Maelor:  mam  Madoc*  ap  Robert  =  Loiori  v.  gr:  V"  &c. 
h.  mam  IL'n*  ap  Yw:  =  yngharad  v.  U'n  ap  Mred:  &c. 

c.  John*  o  Pylston  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  Rob:  ap  Rich  ap  syr  Roger 

179  ll  mam  Dd:*  ap  Gr:  ap  dd:  =  sioned  v.  Rob:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

180  mam  vleddyu*  ap  Rotpert  goch  o  degeingl  =  levku  v.  dd:  V" 

b.  Morgan*  ap  dd:  ap  Mad:  ap  dd:  goch  &c. 

c.  Morgan*  ap  dd:  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  dd:  llwyd  &c. 

181  Dd:*  ap  ll'n  ap  dd:  ap  ll'u  ap  Mad:  voel  &c. 

b.  ll'n*  ap  dd:  ap  ler:  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  gr:  ap  }er:  V"  &c. 

182  Rob:*  ap  Edw:  ap  Ho;  ap  ll'n  ap  'Jer:  ap  gr:  &c. 

183  Dd:*  ap  ll'n  ap  Edu:  llwyd  ap  ]fer:  V"  &c. 
h.  John  ap  Einion  a  'Jolyn  ap  'Jer  ap  ll'n  &c. 

c.  Rob:  ap  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  gr:  ap  ^er  V" 

d.  Dd:*  goch  ap  Ho:  ap  leu:  ap  ll'n  ap  Gr:  ap  Jer:  V"  &c. 
184'7.ii  .•  Dd:  llwyd*  ap  tudyr  ap  feu:  ap  U'n 

IS5' Maelor  .-  Syr  T.  hanmer*  ap  Rich:  H.  ap  gr:  ap  fankyn  H. 

186  Wilkoc  mowddwy  a  briodes  vared  v.  tho:  ap  ll'n  &c. 

187  &  276  Maelor:  Syr   Roger  Pulston*  ap  Roger  ap  John  ap 
Rob:  ap  Ric:  syr  Syr  Rog:  o  puleston 


*  Followed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  mother,  graudraother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 


7S2  PENIAHTH   MANUSCRIPT    127. 

189  Gr:*  ap  Morgan  gocli  ao  Gr:  ap  ^fer:  Voel  &c. 

b.  Tho:  Domok*  ap  ^feu:  ap  dd:  ap  Mad:  ap  Ririd  &c. 

190  Phyhb*  ap  Mad:  ap  ^eu:  ap  ^er:  ap  Mad: 

^^}  T^^"^'' '"'°  ^^  Gronw  ap  Edn:  vychan  a  wnaeth  brodordy  Baugor 

b.  Maelgwn  gwynedd  y  sydd  yn  gorwedd  yu  ynys  Seiriol  a  wuaeth  priordy 
penn  mon  .  a  chlasswrdy  Caer  gybi  .  f         / 

c.  ll'n  ap  7er:  drwjn:  a  wuaeth  mynachlog  A.  conwy  a  brodordy  llanvaes. 

d.  p.  kyn:   ap  ^er■.  ap  Gwgon  =  Ednyved  V"  /  Heilin  eais  /  Gronw  voel  &c. 
e   Enwevmeib:  GriapHo:  apMred:  =  syr  Ho:  y  vwyall  /  7euan  /  Einion. 
/.  Margred  v.  Wenlliau  ap  7euan  Crach  &c. 

192  Cadogan*  ap  Gr:  ddwnn  ap  ph.  dorddy  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c. 
gl^^edl  marw  Ph:  dorddv  y  doetb  o  rann  i  rufP:  ddwuu  hauner  a  bioedd  .  . 

-T  ^^^^^  °  '^^^''^  *"'**  y  trallwDg  byrr  &o.  &c. 

193  II  Twain  ap  bleddyn  ap  Tudyr  ap  Rys  sais  &e. 

b.  Mam  vared  v.  mad:  vychan  oedd  leladus  &c. 

c.  „     ll'n  ddv  oedd  weurvitl  v.  ll'n  vychan  &c. 

d.  Plant  morgan*  ap  Jer:  ap  Gr:  ddv  —  Edw:*  /  Ho:  /  a  tho:  / 

e.  „      Rich:*  ap  Mad:  ap  ll'n  =  Robert*  a  John  a  llevkv 
191       „     Janlijjn  ap  Jer:  Vychan  :  Morys  Jwug  a  lewys* 

b.   'Jer:  goclr*  ap  Edn;  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  &c. 
195  Plant  Dd:  ap  Mad:  Ihoyd :  Mad:  a  ^ankyn  vychan 
-ni   ^1  ^'^''•^■^^'■'''•O'l'^-  John   trevor*  a  Rich:   a  gwenhwyvar  plant 
Edw:*  ap  Dd:  n\,  Edn:  gam  .   .  .   .  ap  tudyr  trevor. 
i96  Johi:  lOdwarf*  ap  ^eu:  ap  adda  ap  Jer:  ddv  &c. 
b.  achocdd  Kob:  Wynn  mab  morgan  ap  ll'n  ap  Edn:  &c. 

197  Aber  tanad :  Jen:  llwyd*  a  John  a  Rob:  meib  Dd:  Ihvyd  &c. 

198  Kynllaith  y  Kyffin :  Ho:  a  Rys  a  Gwraic  dd:  say  or  trallwng 
a  margred  plant*  Morys  ap  jfeu:  gethiu  ap  Mad:  kyifin  &c. 

/'.   (Pe  byw  r  moelvrych  gwiw  ddevawd  gynnydd  ac  Einion  bael  i  vrawd  .... 
madog  kevgoch  o  vocliuant  ai  wraig  wyw  ai  blwyvv  ai  blant) 

199  &  230  Biblical  genealogies :  Rachel  v.  laban  ap  Batnel  Ac. 

200  The  Pedigree-  of  the  Mortimers :  Huw  Mortmer  I  a  ddaeth  i 
loegr  gida  Wm:  bastard  &c.         The  bottom  third  of  this  page  is  torn  away. 

202  A  Proclamation  of  the  Caerwys  Eistedvod,  13-23.]  Bidhysbys 
i  bawb  .  .  .  vod  Eistcddvod  ar  wyr  wrth  gerdd  tafod  a  ihant  .  .  . 
yr  vgeinvet  .  .  .  ger  bronn  Ritchart  ap  ho'l  ap  f.     V'n  .  .  .  Sirif  &c. 

205  A  Description  of  Arms.X  \\  [fBur]  ddy  lis  o  aur  .  a  dwyn 
blodev  mewn  arvev  arwydd  anwadalwch  yw  .  Canys  ni  hir  bery 
blodev  .  yr  arvev  hynn  y  sydd  yn  perthynv  i  vrenhin  ffraingk  .  a 
liynn  a  ddywaid  ffranci&cus  oi  dir  ef  elivn  .  yn  i  lyvyr  ffrangec.  mae 
eraill  yn  dwyn  gweulioliaid  .  .  .  rraia  ddywaid  pam  yw  gwydd  oedd 
hynnif  y  rrai[n]  .  .  ,  cans  offer  gwehyddion  yw  gwenholiaid  .... 
Weibion  a  gair  mown  gordderchiad  a  ddygant  arvev  i  tadev  a  bend  ar 
o.'go  ar  i  traws  ....  Rni  y  Sydd  yn  petrusso  am  arvev  lloegr  achos 
tiierv  o  vn  Honer;;^  Beneifc  .  .  .  .  y  gweddai  i  vrenhinedd  lloegr 
ddwyn  lewpardiaid  ....  Pan  oedd  o.  k.  CCCCC  xlv  ar  ol  marw 
Ar(hur  y  Ooroned  Cvstenin  ....  ends:  rraid  ir  brenhin  herod 
[=herald]  vod  yn  gyvarwydd  o  henavieth  pawb. 

Ac  velhj  i  tervyna  am  ddisgread  arvev  gd  syr  Tho:  ap  Jeu:  ap  Dd: 

212  Elen  verch  Tho:  ap  ll'n  ap  Twain  .  .  gwraig  Grr:  Vychan  arg: 
y  Glynn  .  vddynt  y  bv  vab  ywain  glynn  dwr  a  Thudyr  i  vrawd  &c.  &c. 
214  Maelor:  Madoc  ap  ll'n  ap  griiiri — his  wife  and  offspring. 
216  The  genealogies  of  John  the  Baptist,  Jesus  Christ,  Joseph,  &c. 

*  Followed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  mother,  grandmother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 

f  The  text  is  slightly  imperfect.  It  must  have  been  written  in  or  about  1523, 
Compare  Pen.  MSS.  7.i  (p.  2;W),  86  (p.  227). 

X  Eor  the  beciui)iug  of  tliis  treatise  see  pp.  239-56  below.  Compare  Mosfju 
JUS,  113,  p.  19,  ■ 


THE  BOOK  OF  SYR  THOMAS  AP  JeUAN  AP  DEIKWS.         783 

2-18  Rys  ap  U'n  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  U'n  ap  ho:  y  pedole  &c, 

b.  Elsabeth  v.  Rys  ap  )eu:  ap  Gtm  &c. 

c.  IL'n  ap  hwlkyn  ap  Ho:  ap  ]fev:  ddv  &c. 

d.  Ho:  y  vaif  ap  U'n  ap  ho:  ap  ^er:  ddv  &o. 

e.  ]feii:  ap  Ho:  ap  Qymws  ap  Ho:  ap  'J  .  ddu  &c. 
/.  Glm  ap  U'n  Uwyt  ap  U'n  vychan  &c. 

219  Wm:*  ap  gr:  ap  Robyu  ap  gr:  ap  glm  ap  Gr:  ap  Heilin  &c. 

6.  (2).  clwijd :  Maystyr  D.  ^al  warden  liuthyn  ap  tudyr  ap  U'u  vyulian  &c.) 

220  Gr:*  ap  jfeu:  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  dv  &c. 

221  CoMPOD  AIaxnwel  :  ILyma  val  i  gossodir  Uythyrennev  yr 
wythnos  ar  y  mynagvys.  Yr  wythnos  a  ddangosswn  /  A.  B.  C.  kefn 
bys  kyvan  /  ar  D.  E.  F.  ar  i  dyun  .  ar  Gr.  ir  bys  ar  i  benn  &c. 

The  last  page  (227)  is  torn  off,  all  but  a  strip  down  the  inside. 

229  (Oyys  fwrdays  na  says  nosiav  .  .  .  irraiu  orfod  rroi  yn  arfav) 

.6.    (gway  fant  wyr  hwlant  rylawn  ganyfed  gwayr  nifel  rry  fwydlawn  &c.) 

t.    (dychryniad  gryngiad   garw   anian  /  mawr  vthvr  a  rotho  dvw  /  n  /  Yvan 
athew  oerwjnt  atharau  ac  yn  ol  melld  glaw  yu  y  manu) 

230  (O.C.  paun  vv  y  vatel  ymarnad  .  1471  .  .  .  yn  boswrth 
1485  •  .  .  y  maes  y  gwyddyl  yn  lie  gelwir  Stoke  1487  .  .  .  yn  y 
black  hieth  1497  &c.) 

231  Kynvyn  ap  Gwrystan  ap  gwaithvoed  a  briodes  yngharad  v'ch 
Mred:  ap  Twain  ap  Ho:  dda  .  .  .  vddynt  y  bv  vab  a  mercb  .  . 
bleddyn  ac  Ewerydd  &c.  .  .  .  B.  a  veddiannodd  Bowys  &c. 

Tlieii  fellow  the  descendants  of  Bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  and  their 
respective  Rhandir-edd  such  as  Powys  Vadog,  Powys  Wenwynwyn, 
Maelor,  Glynndyfrdwy,  kyveilioc,  Arwystli  &c.  &c.    Cf.  p.  278  below. 

"]  ywain  ap  Gr;  ap  Gwenwynwyn  .  .  .  y  bv  verch  .  .  Ha  wis 
gadarn  .  .  yr  lionn  a  briodes  John  o  'Jarltwn  [arg:  Powys]  gwreang 
i  Edw:  o  Caerynarvon  brenhin  lloegr  yr  hwnn  a  Enessid  yn  apley 
gerllaw  weryntwn  yn  swydd  ymwythic  ar  dduw  gwener  y  Croclitli 
1268  .  A  Ryvel  a  vv  Rwng  Hawis  ai  hewythredd  am  y  tir  yn  ol 
ywain  \  thad  /  cans  na  ddigwyddai  dir  i  verch  /  yna  drwy  nerth  y 
brenhin  y  daliwyd  U'n  a  John  a  ddi  .  Ac  yn  harddlech  i  carcharwyd 
hwynt  /  Eisoes  Gr:  vychan  a  ryvelodd  ar  i  nith  ai  gwr  hyd  pann 
ddoeth  gorchymvn  y  brenhin  att  syr  Roger  Mortmer  arg:  y  wavn  &c. 
/  i  erchi  daly  Gr:  V"  a  syr  Roger  Kamber,  a  Huv/  mwngymrv  i 
ddaweion  gan  i  verched  .  .  .  ar  brenhin  a  varnodd  i  Hawis  dir 
i  thad  &c. 

239  DOSPARTB  ARVEV  being  a  treatise  on  the  origin  utility  ^c. 
of  Coats  of  Arms  :  Megis  i  darparodd  yr  hoU  gywaethoc  dduw  or  nef 
pann  greodd  pob  peth  yn  yr  oes  gyntaf  or  byd  bod  henwev  ar  ddynion 
val  i  gellid  adnabod  pavvb  i  wrth  i  gilydd  .  Velly  yn  yr  ail  oes  ar 
drydedd  pann  amylbaodd  y  bobl  ar  y  ddayar.  A  ch)rvodi  Tervysc  a 
rryveloedd  yn  ev  plith  .  drwy  valchder  a  chenvigen  .  wrth  i  iiat- 
vriaethev  ai  harverev  yr  ordeiniwyd  ac  i  nodwyd  i  Ryvelwyr  ac  i 

wyr    Enrydeddus    arwyddion  Arvev   yw  dvvyn mi   a  ym 

kenais  droi  o  ladin  a  flraagec  mewn  'Jaith  gymraec  gyfran  o  waith 
amravaelion  a^vdvriaid  .  .  .  .  ni  a  draethwn  :— 

i.  pa  nmser  a  pha  achos  gyntaf  yr  ymarverwyt  o  arvev. 

ii.  pa  liw  y  sydd  weddics  i  ddioyn  a  pha  liio  y  Sydd  bennaf. 

iii.  pa  ryw  arwyddion  a  ddygir  meivn  arvev  ...  a  pheth 
arwyddockant 

*  FoUowed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  mother,  grandmother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 


784  PENIARTH  MiNtrSCEIPT   12?. 

iv.  dysgv  disgrio  yr  arvev  ai  dosparth  ac  ynabod  yr  arvev  .... 
megys  gwr  o  eryri  dwyn  eryr  .  a  gwr  o  vochnant  nev  or  hob  dwyn 
llwdwn  [h\v]ch  .  nev  wr  o  geri  dwyn  ffrwyth  y  prenn  hwnnw  // 

One  or  more  leaves  are  missing  here.  For  the  later  part — the  description  of 
arms  see  p.  200-12  above.     Compare  Mostjn  MS.  113. 


Part  II.  =  Hen.  MS.  443. 

256  A  fragment  of  a  cywydd  ending : 

ysgwydd  due  ni  wisgodd  dair  Him  ILwyd 

h.      oes  Iv  au  cynwys  i  wlad     .... 

at  ryvel  gweilch  Sion  Trevawr     .... 

ar  draian  y  bvr  trowyr  jfeuan  Teller 

258       ILa[wer  nos]  Hew  r  wavn  isaf    .... 

vo  duw  nef  aed  yni  wart  gvUo'  glynn 

2.59       sain  sior  sion  trevor  sein  trevydd 

y  mars  am  wrsib  tragowydd     .... 

[vr]ddas  y  dyrnas  a  roed  arnad  Rim  Vjivyd 

261  ['('Joked  sydd  a  bowyd  sai[nt]     .... 

a  bowyd  saith  abad  sion  .  .  .  ystradmarchell  .... 
Poed  i  rwysc  pedwar  eskop  „         „ 

262  Dyroganaf  drwy  gynydd 

o  dduw  i  sion  ddw}'  ocs  hydd  .  .  hil  Trevor     .... 
yr  hos  aur  voirhoes  Harri  Morris  ap  Ho:  ap  Tudur 

264  Plant  John  Trevor  hen  ap  Edw:  ap  dd:  ap  eden:  gam  &c. 
oedd  Otwel  .  Robert   .  John  .  Eisabeth  .  Edwart  .  <fec. 

Gr;  Hiraethog  has  displayed  this  pedigree  by  a  series  of  circles  on 
col.  ii.  of  p.  264. 

267  ^euan*  ap  gr:  np  'Jeu:  ap  eign:  ac  eden:*  i  vrawd 
h.   Gwyddelxoern  :  Elise*  ap  gr:  iip  eign:  ap  gr:  .  .  .  ap  osbern 
c.  'jfachav  John  Trevor'  o  wiggynt  ap  Edwart  ap  John  &o. 

269  I  mam  vorris  ap  'Jeu:  gethin*  —  varred*  v.   ^eu:    ap    Mad: 
ap  kadwgon  wenwya 

b.  m.  Edw:*  ap  J.  Trevor*  ap  Edw:  :=  annes  v.  pirys  kamre  &c. 

270  m.  gr:  v'n*  ap  gr.  or  Ruddallt  =  Elysaheth  v.  arg:  ystrains 

b.  Mam  gr:  Yarwn  gvi'yn  oedd  Em  v.  arg:  awdyle 

c,  „     U'n*  !ip  ow:  =  yngharad  v.  ll'n  ap  Mrcd: 

271  „     Edwart  vychan*  ap  Edw:    ap    dd:    ap   eden:  gam  = 
Kcnhioyvar*  v.  adda  goch  &c. 

b.  Plant   Edwnrtf   ap   dd:  ~  Eob:  (ystiwart  Dinbych)  /  John  / 
oltwel /.and  their  i&sue. 

272  gwraig  J.  Trevor  o  wiggynt  yw  ehabelh*  v.  J.  Evttvn  ap  J. 
o.p  Elys 

273  Mam  jfankyn  o  kynaston  oedd  v.  arg:  ffranktvn  &c. 

b.  „     Vadoc  ap  ifylip  oedd  v.  wervyl  v.  Roger  vychan  &c. 

c.  gwraig*  Gr:  Vychan*  oedd  v.  arg:  bulkle 

d.  g.  syr  Roger  kynafton  =  Eisabeth*  v.  Harri  |arll  Tangyrffild 

e.  (Mam  J.  Evttvn  ap  J.  ap  Elis  =  Eisabeth*  v.  syr  Huw  o  bale. 

♦  Followed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  mother,  grandmother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 

f  A  daughter  of  Edward  ap  Dd:  married  Otwel  Wrysly  and  tlieir  fourth  daughter 
was  the  mother  of  Edward  Lee"yr  hvm  y  sydd  yu  archeskop  yn  ^fork  "  (p.  272, 
col.  ii.  1.  3).  The  date  of  part  ii.  is  tlius  fixed  by  the  archiepiscopate  of  Lee, 
1531-44.  There  is  a  note  on  page  273  in  the  hand  of  Gr;  Hiraethog,  dated  lieddiw 
iSSS, 


THE  ifOOK  OF  EDWARD  AP   ROGER.  785 

273  A  description  of  the  coats  of  arms  of  Tmlar  Trevor,  Moreddic 
warwyn,  syr  Dd:  Gam,  ITarri  vii,  Hwva  ap  kynddelw,  ]tliol  vychau, 
ifilip  ap  7vor,  ll'n  ap  Jev:  drwyndwn,  yankyn  havart,  Ow:  brogvntvn, 
Ririd  vlaidd  (p.  274),  Eden,  vychan,  Ithol  vychan,  Rys  ap/Tcwdwr, 
kynddelw,  llowarch  ap  bran,  gr:  ap  dd:  gocli,  gwrgynaii,  Try.stan 
Hwlant,  gwerydd  ap  Rys,  IL'n  y  Twysoc,  gr:  ap  kynan,  Gwen- 
wynwyn,  kriadoc  vreichvras,  tegwai'ed,  Edynowain,  Macloo  krwui, 
syr  Eye:  ap  gr:  ap  eignon,  vrien  Reged,  syr  gr:  lloyd,  syr  Howel, 
gweyrydd  ap  Rys,  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn,  lilachndd  (p.  27o). 

277  Morgant  ap  'Jer:  ap  gr:  ddu  ap  gr:  goch  &  kattrin*  his  wife 

b.  gwraig  Ho:  ap   Morgant  ap  ^er  &c.  =  lonet*  v.  Tudyr  V^ 

c.  Ran  dir  Jthel  velyn  yii  ial :  llys  y  kil  allt  gymbebyr 
bodanwydoc  koedrwc.  Yn  neffryn  Mwyd :  n&'dk\wyA.  Yn  yslred 
alvn  :  Ihvynegryn,  gwern  afflllt  kilredynyu  hendref  biffa  .  J-'» 
hegeingyl :  kaervallvvch  Hendref  vigiil  pentref  hyvaidd  kastyll 
March  wion.     Cp.  Pen.  128  p.  213. 

278  Repetition  of  pages  2B1 -38  with  some  additional  particulars 
about  the  second  marriage  of  Joes  to  Edw:  Trevor  ap  Ed:  ap  Dd: 

284  The  children,  gi'and  children  &c.  of  Kynvyn 

285  The  descendants  and  relatives  of  Owaiu  Gwyncdd 

286  Pvmp  kostowgh'jijth  hymry  :  l.'if  y  blaydd  Rvdd  &c. 
h.   Tair  beriach  gwynedd :  kantelli  wyddel  &c. 

c.  gioehelyth  ar  y  llechwedd  vcha,  gwarthrynion,  powys,  arwystli, 
Morgnnwc,  gwent,  gegidva,  penllyn,  &  Merionedd. 

287  Plant  kadwgon,  Edwin  ap  gronw,  Ow:  ap  Edwin,  Madoc 
a  gr:  meib  Mred:  ap  bleddyn,  gr:  ap  Rys,  yr  arg:  Rys,  Rys  gryg 
&  Rys  mechyll. 

288  Plant  Rys  ap  R.  Mechyll,  gr:  ap  kynan  &  Ow:  gwynedd.  || 


MS.  128  =  Hen,  308.  TLyver  Edward  ap  Roger.  Pkdi- 
GREES  and  Armorial  Bearings.  Paper;  Hi  x  8^  inches;  970 
pages  (of  which  a  good  many  are  blank)  ;  xvitb  century,  half- 
bound,  morocco. 

This  M8.  contains  one  of  the  more  important  collections  of  pedigrees  in  (he 
Welsh  language.  Kdward  ap  Eoger  of  Rhiwabon,  who  died  in  1587, f  "owned" 
the  MS.  (pp.  1,  C31),  and  the  bulk  of  the  pedigrees  were  compiled  before  the 
year  1565,j  though  there  are  many  additions  in  paler  ink,  but  from  the  same  pen, 
down  to  the  year  1581. J  The  pages  Jin  this  principal  hand  are,  3-5,  34-G,  42-5P, 
61-6,  69-78,  80-S,  97,  131-88,  195,  211-6,  251-84,  589-085,  711-31,  737-8, 
759-65,768-71,780,5,7,790,  804-20,  824-34,  844-6,  850-69,  876-936.  There 
are  at  least  three  contemporary  hands  running  right  through  the  pedigree  parts  of 
the  MS.,  and  some  portiou.i  of  the  same  pedigree  are  not  infrequently  in  two  or 
more  hands.  Parts  are  in  the  autographs  of  William  Lleyn  (pp.  89,  819,  831), 
of  Simwnt  Vychan  (pp.  256,  262,  826,  885,  913),  and  of  Robert  Vaughan  (pp.  284, 
562-3).  The  hands  which  inserted  the  sheriffs  for  1582-85  have  made  additions 
on  pp.  59,  SO,  105-29,  186,  189-95,  633,  644,  658,  792-7,  802,  814-5,  7,  826,  850, 
891,  937-42. 

The  Heraldic  part  (pp.  290-567  and  entries  on  pp.  262,  274-6,  281,6-15,  672, 
685,  782-5)  have  been  attributed  to  William  Lleyn.  But  this  part  is,  unless  our 
memory  plays  us  false,  in  the  same  hand  as  Mostyn  MS.  Ill,  which  wo  have 
assigned  to  William  Kyuwal.  We  have  in  both  MSS.  the  same  peculiar  characters— 
■d  and  '1  for  dd  and  11  ;  and  from  the  general  stj'le  of  the  writing  we  have  little 
hesitation  in  assigning  the  heraldic  part  to  William  Kynwal. 

*  followed  by  the  pedigree  of  his  mother,  grandmother,  great  grandmother,  &c. 
t  Note  by  the  late  \V.  W.  E.  Wynne. 

j  An  examination  of  the  lists  of  Sheriffs  on  pp.  780  and  785  enables  one  to 
determine  these  dates  without  much  hesitation. 


786  PENIA.RTH  MANUSCRIPT  12'8. 

1  Lwdlo  (own  and  castle  were  built  by  Koger  Mongymrj,  Wigmor 
and  caslle  by  hugbe  wigmor,  Brignorth  and  its  castle  by  y  dans, 
Aheri/stwilh  castle  by  Ric:  Klarans,  Chirk  Castle  by  syr  Roger 
mortimer,  Holt  Castle  by  Wm:  earl  of  Waren 

b.  The  children  of  Henry  vii  and  Henry  viii. 

2  mam  tomas  ap  Hn  ap  O.  ap  Mred  :  oedd  wanas  &c. 
Thomas  abad  y  ty  Gmjnn  ap  Rys  ap  arod  ap  ^.  &c. 

3  Plant  yr  Arg:  rys  ap  Or:  ap  Rys  ap  tewdwr 

5  p.  W.  jarll  penfro  =  Harri  j.  P.  /syr  Edw:  Ann  g.  arg:  talbod. 
Pages  2-5  are  taken  from  Ibjfr  J.  brechfa  (Pen.  MS.  131).     Pages  6-33  are  Wank. 
34  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Jestin  ap  Gwrgant 

36  Haw  Robert  ap  ]f.  ap  Wm:  ap  )euan  ap  Gr:  &c. 

37  The  pedigrees  o/ Edward  vi  brenin  lloigyr,  Edward  the  Confessor, 
Henry  ii,  Henry  vi,  Edward  iv,  William  the  bastard,  Syr  Rys  ap 
Thomas,  Roger  and  Edmund  Mortimer  &c.,  Edward  iii. 

41  The  descendants  of  Kynvyu 

42  Enion  Efell,  Kj'nfric  Efell,  O.  brogciitvn  meib  Mad  :  ap  Mred: 

The  descendants  of  Rys  ap  Tewdwr  &  Gr:  ap  kynan  . 

46  B.  penaethied  dehevbarth  .■  Rys  ]feuangk  ap  Gr:  ap  yr  arg:  R. 

47  plant  Gr:  maelor  =  Mad:  /Mred:  ac  Owen  &c. 

„     ^ago  ap  jfdwal  ap  Mevric  <fec. 
Rodri  mawr,  his  wife,  mother,  grandmother,  &c. 

48  Tudwal  ap  Rvn  ap  meirchion  ap  sseissyllt  &c. 

The  mothers  of  kaswallon  ap  kadvan,  Beli  ap  Rvn  &c. 

Mewn  tii  lie  y  delid  argliddaeth  wynedd  o  gogael  &c. 

The  descendants  of  Rodri  Mawr  =  Anarawd  .  .  .  kadell  &c. 

50  plant  Kvnedda  Wledic  ai  kyfoeth 

„      Brychan  Brycheiiioc  =  Rvn,  Kleddwyn,  Arthen  &c. 

51  Jachoedd  ssaint  a  gorvchel  vrenhinoedd  a  thwyssogion 

Dewi  ap  ssank  ap  karedic  &c ends :  Kynhafal  ssant  ap 

Elgud  ap  Kadvarch  o  lyn  ap  Kriadoc  vreichvras  .  .  Oswalld, 
Ewryn  .  .  .  ends  :  Kyngar  a  sselyf  a  Jestin  a  gadwy  meib  geraint  ap 
erbin  &c. 

56  Flant  Kyndrwyn  =  Elvan,  Gwion,  Kynon  &c. 
„       <}.  dirmic  =  korneu,  Gwion,  ssidin  &c. 
„      Kaw  o  dwr  kelyn  =  dirmic,  kilid,  bangaw  &c. 

56  .,      Egri  o  dalebolion  =  Nudd,  Ronvn,  ^arddur  &c. 
„      llawarch  hen  =  Gwcui,  morudd,  pill  &c. 

ym  i  bu  kyd  beu  haylion  /  o  bar  ir  byd  bod  bebddvu,  &c.      ll'ch  hen 
2}lant  (&c.)  kenav  ap  koel  godeboc  =  Padarn,  Grwst  &c. 

57  Rydderch  hael  ap  tudwal  ap  keidio  ap  dyfynwal  hen  &c. 
Mordaf  hael  a  Xvdd  hael  ap  ssernan  ap  keidio  &c. 
Elffin  ap  Gwyddno  kaordaf  &c. 

pla7it  Jaen:  dlrmyc,  Gwynu,  vstiawn  &c. 
„      deigr  ap  dyfuwal  hen  =  gwdion  astrus 

Don  o  arvon  =  Gwdion,  ssamsson,  Mevthon  &c. 
",      Maetli  ap  Mathonwy  =  lieu  Haw  gyfFes,  dylan  ail  ton  &c. 
vrien  Rsged  =  Owen  ap  vrien,  Rvn,  Riwallon,  Elffin  &c. 
Arthur  ap  vthr  ben  dragon  ap  kuslciu  &c. 

58  The  pedigrees  of  Maelgwn  gwynedd,  Kvnedda  wledic,  Kydwaladr 
vendigaid,  tin  ap  ^er:  /  Madoc  ap  Gr:  Maelor,  Gr:  ap  Rys  Tewdwr, 
Elystan  glodrudd,  and  festin  ap  gwrgant, 

59    Gweh:  A.  edwij  :  Ow:   ap  Mred:   ap  Engion_&c. 
yn  Elfd  :  kadwgon  ap  gr:   ap  ho:   sais  &c. 
"       Bvellt :  Kickard  ap  engiou  ap  gr:   &e. 
Dehevbarth :  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  tewdwr 
Morganwc :  Morgant  ap  kariadoc  ap  ^estiu 
Gioent :  Morgant  ap  ho:  ap  jfer:  ap  Owau  &c, 


THE  BOOK  OP  EDWARD  AP  ROGER.  787 

Gtcerthri/nion :  Kadwallon  ap  Madoc  ap  ^er:  &c. 

Poicys:  Grr:  Maylor,  Owen  ac  Elisse  meib  Mad:  ap  Mrcd:  &c. 

ArwijHli :  Ho:  a.p  ]feuaf  ap  O.  ap  treliayarn  &e. 

Meilienydd :  Kadwgon  ap  Mad:  ap  "Jdnerth  &c. 
60  Arllcchicedd  vchaf:  ^arddiir  ap  tiahayarn  ap  kyuddehv  &c. 

Kae  ho:  a  chrevddvn  :  ^er:  goch  ap  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

Kayo:  D.  fougam  ap  D.  ap  ho: 

Arwystli :  (1)  Mred:  ap  engion  &c.,  (2)  O.  ap  D.  ap  Eugion  &c., 
(3)  O.  moel  ap  Jer:   &c. 

Ky/elioc :  Gronwy  ap  Edyu:  (ueZ  Einiou)  ap  seisyll  &c. 

llwydiarth  ymhoii>i/s :  Kelinin  ap  Ririd  ap  kynddclw  &c. 

Abei-tanad  :  Jlred:   fychan  ap  yr  heu  Mred:  &c. 

Bwrgeding  0  gegidva :  7thel  goch  ap  D.  ap  Mred:   &c. 

ymain:  ^er  vychau  ap  Jer:   goch  ap  Mred:   ap  bleddyu  &c. 

haer  Engion  :  Gr:   ap  mred:  ap  dd:  ap  gr:  fychan  &c. 
61  knihieth  :  eugion  grevlon  ap  engion  ap  Ririd  flaidd 

hadxvynfain  ymechain  vwch  koed :  Gr:   deg  ap  gr:   ap  engion  &c. 

Keri :  Mred:  ap  Maelgwn  <'^o.  (2)  Rondwlff  ap  ^er:  &c.  (3)  eugion  &e. 

Mlfel  is  mynydd  a  glyn  bwch  :  Jfor  hen  ap  Jev:  ap  llowarcli  &c. 

Klaim  koel  Godeboc  i  gorou  loegr  .  .  .    See  koronika  korouikorvm 

Achos  i  kavos  Elen  V3  Goel  G-.  y  vreiihiuiaeth   See  k.  y  bryttauicd 
62  y  gwyr  a  want  o  Arthur  hyd  vaylgwn 

Gwehchjtii  Dyfed :  O.  ap  Eleu  V3  lowarcli  ap  liyfeidd  &c. 

G.  Ttadelling  o  gegidva  ymliowys :  Gwyn  ap  gr:  ap  beli  &e. 

G.  Penllyn  :  Meirion*  ap  llenwav  ap  koed  ap  dwned  &c. 

G,  Mcirionydd :  kynan  ap  brochwel  ap  Edn:  Meirionydd  &c. 

G.  Ardudwy  :  Bleiddvd  ap  karadawc  ap  senanawl  &c. 

G.  lios :  Ho:  varf  veliiuoc  ap  kradoc  ap  Meirion  &c. 

G.  Dogveiling — D.  Mwyd :  Kowryd  ap  Elaeth  ap  Elgud  &c. 

llwyth  Tiillin  :  Hwva  ap  kwnws  ap  killin  ap  Maylawc  dda  &c. 

II.  liillin  ymicrttyn  :  ssandde  bardd  ap  kriadoc  hardd  &c. 
C3  II.  aylan  :  Enion  ap  gwakhmai  ap  Meilir  ap  Mabon  &c. 

64  I/,  gioyr  jientraeth  :  Geraint  ap  tegwared  ap  kynvawr  &c. 
G.  gwyr  lios  :  Edn:  vycban  ap  kynvric  &c. 

G.  D.  klwyd :  Kowryd  ap  kadvan  ap  alaoc  wr  &c. 

65  G.  Arfon  :  Kyfnerth  vyclian  ap  Kyfnerth  ap  Morgenav  &e. 

II.  gol/wyn  :  Merwydd  ac  Eginir  ac  Edn:  gollwyn  ap  =  p.  tagno 
//.  penllyn  .  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  ap  gollwyn  ap  J/oriddic  &c. 

66  Mechell  ap  Mocliwys  ap  gwynn  gohoyw  ap  Gloyw  gwlad  lydau 
Engion  ap  'Jago  ap  Gr:  ap  eidde  ap  Elisse  &c. 

llowarch  g03   ap  'Jer:  ap  kynan  ap  llowarcb  howlbvYrcli  &c. 

67  A  biief  account  of  the  Mortimer  family  beginning  with  Huw. 

68  Gwchelyth  ofuellt :  Ymoelwyn  yr  hwn  a  elwyd  ll'n  ap  Mred:  &c. 

„  ,,  y  brych  kadarn  a  elwyd  engion  ap  Mrcd:  hen  &c. 

G.  bnjcitenioc :  trahayaru  arglwydd  ap  trahayarn  vychan  &c. 

,,         „         Bledilyn  ap  maenyrch  ap  drvm  bcnawg  &c. 
G.  «(!«  heivjdd  :  gr:  ap  Jvorap  Mevrio  vychan  &c. 
G.  GwenUtfC  a  dyvet :  Ywain  ap  Elen  v3  llowarch  ap  hyreydd  &c. 
G.  o  veirionydd  :  ynyr  vychan  ap  mevric  ap  madoc  &c. 
Owion  ben  arw  ap  Gwion  ssais  ap  heilin  &c.  llyfr  Gr:  Hiraethoc 

69  TLyriia  gyff  a  gwraidd  talym  o  ivehelaethav  y  Mars,  y  ddwy 
Vaylnwr,  a  ssicydd  Wavn,  sswydd  Drewen,  sswydd  Grocs  oswulld. 
Tudur  Trevor  ap  Ynyr  ap  Kadvarch  &c. 
ILwyth  nant  hevdwy  :  Jer:  voel  ap  ^er:  vychan  &c. 
ILicyth  trevor  :  ^evaf  ap  addaf  ap  awr  &c. 

it.  part  or  ddwy  vaylor :  Kynvric  ap   Riwallon  ap  dyngad  &c. 
IL.  llanerch  baima  .  ^onas  apgronwap  tudur  ap  R.  sais  &c. 


*  "  Byddid  yul  ahv  y  blaidd   rrudd  or   Gest  medd  lly/r   John  wynn  vntlawioe ' 
)U  original  hand, 


788  PENIARTH  IIANUSORIPT  128. 

Ki.  dudhjst  yny  trayan:  jddon  ap  R.  sais 

Ki.  Eyttyn,  a  sonlli,  ac   Erddlys,    a  Riwabon,  a    Rwyttyn, 
Gwerssyllt,  bioras  riffri,  a  hoivrton,  a  ffart  o  vrymbo,  Esclvs 
a  Mortyn,  ar  Marchwiel  a  btoras  hwva,  Elidir  ap  Rys  ssais. 
JTj.  S.  Drewen  :  syr  W.  pefr  ap  gronw  ap  tudr  ap  E.  ssai» 
IL.  Devddior  a  Mcchain  :  syr  Roger  powys  ap  gronw  &c, 
JL.  bwrtyn  y  Maylawr  :  ssandde  hardd  ap  kariadoa  hardd  &c. 
IL.  tref  Alvn :  Evnvdd  ap  gwenllian  V3  Rys  Marchan  &c. 

70  XV.  LLWYTH  awYNEDD:  Moii —  Grweirydd  ap  Rys  goch  &c.  &c. 

71  Tnir  beriach  gwynedd:  kantelli  wyddel  &c. 

72  hym:  y  kroesvaen :  Syr  Roger  kinaston  a  iFylib  a  Jankin  &c. 

73  Aber  tanad :  J.  llwyd  ap  1).  lluyd  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  vychan  &c, 
74,  79,  82  ILioyn  y  maen  :  Rich:  lloyd  ap  Rob:  llwyd  &c. 

J.  ap  D.  ap  Guttyn  ap  Gr:  ap  ^.  gethin  ap  Madoc  kyfRn  &c. 

75  Rob:  a  Mred  meib  ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  ^.  v'n  ap  ^  gethin  &c. 
Rich:  ap  D.  ap  Ho:  ap  Mred:  ap  Mad:  heddwch  &c. 
ilransses  Icyiiaston  ap  Giors  kynaston  &c. 

76  John  ap  ho:  ap  Engiou  g03  ap  D  ap  Jer:  &e. 
Ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  Morus  ap  ^.  Gethin  &c. 

77  &  83  Morus  /  D.  /  a  chadwaladr  =  meib  Wm:  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  &c. 
plant  Wniffre  kinaston  a  syr  Roeger  kinast  &c. 

80  p.  To:  Tanad  ap  J.  lloyd  vychan  of  ]f.  11.  o  aber  ianad. 
82  p.  Rys  ap  Morus  ap  ]f.  Gethin  ap  Mad:  kyffin  &c. 
83.   p.  Rychart  Trevor  ap  ed:  ap  D. 

84  Gwerful  V5  Roger  vychan  o  Estwic  ap  syr  Roger  powys 
dwy  verch  Kn  voel  ^  tibod  a  dyddgv 

The  descendants  of  R  h  y  s  Sais 

86  Y  trayan  :  D-  ap  Engn:  ap  mad:  ko3  ap  D.  &c. 

„  D.  ap  Engn:  ap  Edn:  ap  Engn:  ap  Edn:  v'n  &c. 

„  D.  ap  O.  ap  Jei:  ap  hwfa  llwyd  &c. 

,,  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Engn:  ap  Gtm  lydan  &c. 

Guttyn  Owen  y  prydydd  modd  arall:  Gr:  ap  hugh  ap  O.  ap 
^er;  ap  hwfa  lloyd  ap  gr:  g03  ap  D.  ap  tegwared  ap  ^er:  ap 
trehayaru  .  .  .  ap  kvnedda  wledic 

87  Dyjf:  tyfeidioc :  Huw,  Rob:,  stifyn,'Jamys  &c!  =  p.  J.  lloyd  Sec 
Tonias  draper  n[)  Richard  draper  &c. 

88  V.  Marchell:  Mred:  ap  ^ankyn  ap  Mred:  ap  Gr:  ap  GrifEri  &c. 
h-ossyssicallt :  p.  J.  ap  To:  ap  Rys  ap  moius  ap  J.  gethin  &c. 

89  Silatyn  pentref  y  pant :  Thomas  ap  Rich:  ap  I),  ap  ho;  &c.      Haw  W.  Ihjn 
BO    sswydd  groessysswallt :  Tudiir  ap  John  goch  ap  gr.  &c. 

97  syr  Richart  kroff  ap  W.  krofiJ  ap  John  kroft 

105  Powys  :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  hedo  ap  D.  ap  f. 

Kennhhwa  :  Kadwaladr  /  O.  /  D.  /  a  ho:  =  meib  U'n  ap  J.  ap  J.  &e. 
J.  I'D. I  a.  Kys  =  nieib  =f.  lloyd  ap  Mad: 

106  Kaer  Eiigion :  V).  a  le-wys=meih  hviv  ap  bedo  gwynn  ap  U'n  &c. 

„  Gr:  ap  Rys  moel  ap  J.  v'n  ap  Ririd 

107  „  I),  gooh  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  U'n  Dolgar  &c. 

^  0.  a  D.  =  meib  Mred:  of  D.  lloyd  ap  gr:  &c. 

108  '„  Rys  a  7amys=meib  D.  lloyd  apO.  vychan  &c. 

110  Kyvelioc:  ll'n  ap  raoris ap  ho:  ap  ll'yn  &c. 

Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  gwilym  ap  gr:  derwas  &c. 

111  „  Tho:  ap  Dd:  decap  ^.  Mred:ap  J.  &c. 
K.  Engion  :  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  Dd;  ap  Mred:  &c. 

112  hyvelioc  :  Wmffrc  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  Owen  ap  gr:  &c. 
Daroioen  :  Edyn:  ap  gv;  ap  ho:  sp  gr:  ap  U'n  vychan  &c. 

1 14  h/velioc  :  Gwilym  ap  bo:  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  mad:  &c. 

115  Ykemais  :  Gwilym  ap  bedo  ap  gntto  ap  deio  ap  mad:  &e. 

Rys  ap  7.  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  Mred:  ap  U'n  vychan  &e. 

116  k'lioc-Ll.  B.  mail- ;  J.  ap  U'n  ap  J.  ap  Engion  ap  D.  ap  ffylip  &c. 
118    Meivod  a  mechain  :  Wmffre  ap  Morys  ap  J.  ap  lewys  meifod  &c. 

It.  wynoc :  harri  /  Gr:/  Elen  /  mawd  =  plant  ho:  ap  ll'n  ap  D.  vychan  &c. 


THE  BOOK   OF  EDWARD  AP   ROGER.  789 

119  LI.  idlos:  p.  ap  luorgaa  ap  U'n  ap  ho:  ap  madoc  ddu  &o. 

120  John  up  J.  Owynn  ap  Lewis  gwyu  ap  J.  ap  U'n  &f. 

LI.  in'i-ig  :  Lewis  ap  ph:  iiiowddwy  ap  gr;  mowddwy  &;e 

121  Ai-wysth :  Haw  ap  Moris  ap  Edyu:  ap  D.  Uoyd  &o. 
LI.  wynoc  :  Morys  ap  gr:  ap  tadyr  ap  f.  &e. 

122  ArwystU  :  ll'ii  ap  Morys  ap  Ris  ap  adda  &c. 

123  LI.  ddiuam  .-  Gr:  ap  bodo  apgr:  ap  U'n  gooh  &c. 
irefEghmjs  :  Huw  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  B.  ap  J.  Uoyd  &e. 

124  Arwystli:  0.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  gethiu  ap  gr:  got  &e. 

125  kowras-plwy  yrystoc  :  kadwaladr  ap  Owen  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  Uoyd  &c. 

126  sswydd  Esgoh  :  Lewis  gwyu  ap  ssiankyn  ap  U'n  ap  gwilym  &e. 

127  hydewm—ll.  dyssul  .■  D.  Uoyd  ap  D.  ap  ^.  ap  D.  &c. 
kowras :  Scc.—W.  ap  William  ap  kadwaladr  &c. 

128  Huw  ap  D.  goch  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

129  Dd:  /  Gr  :  ag  Wmffre  =  raeib  J.  Uoyd  ap  J.  bach  &c. 

Sir  dd  171  h  ecli — hy  mio  d  May  I  or  : 
131  p.  Elis  Evttyn  ap  J.  ap  Jamys  =  J.  /  D  .  /  Elis/  Syr  Edw:  &c. 

134  J.  Pylstwn  hen  ap  J.  ap  Mad  ap  Rob:  up  Ric:  ap  syr  Roger  P. 

135  Rob:  ap  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  ap  ]fer:  ap  Gr:  &c. 

136  Eobyn  ap  Morgan  ap  Jer:   vychan  ap  Jer:   ap  gronw  &c. 

137  O.  Eyttyn  ag  Wm:  ap  J.  ap  Jamys  ap  Mad:  ap  jf.   &c. 

138  Y  llai  ac  Emral :  syr  Roger  pylstwn*  ap  Rog:  ap  J.  ap  Rob: 

ap  Ric:  ap  s'^  Roger 

139  D.  ap  ho:  ap  jf,  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  &e. 

Edw:  ap  Morgan  :  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  go5   &c. 

140  D.   ap  ttn  ap  D.  ap  itn  ap  Mad:   voel  ap  f  er:  &c. 
ftn  ap  mad:  ap  ]fer:  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  Gr:  a  'jar:  &c. 

141  J.  ap  Eiaon  ay  Jolyn  ap  jfer:  ap  ttn  ap  griffii  &c, 

D.  G03  ap  ho:  ap  ^.  ap  Hn  ap  Gr:  ap  Jer:  vychan   &c. 

142  W.  ap  Jlad:  ap  Hn  ap  Gr:  ap  Pleddyn  ap  Rob:  &c. 
Edw:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Gtm  ap  Jer:  &c. 

144  Edw:  briwtwn  ap  Wm:  Briwtwn  ap  syr  Rondyll  ap 

yr  hen  syr  Rondyll  brierton  &e. 

145  Rob:  Wynn  (Sonlli)  ap  Morgan  ap  Hn  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  ap  ^fcr: 

146  J.  ap.  D.  ap  Edn:  ap  Ho:  ap  Edn:  ap  Jer:  &o. 

147  Bodylling:  Edwart  ap  Mad:  ap  Deio   ap    Mad:    llwyd  &c. 

150  Edw:  ap  Mred:  ap  Gr:  ap  adda  ap  ho:  ap  ]f.  &c. 
Rob:  ap  Gr;  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  fer:  vychan  &c. 

151  D.  ap  ftn  ap  Edn:  llwyd  aj)  fer:  vychan  &c. 
D.  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  ]f.  ap  ho:  &c. 

152  Jankyn  mortyn  ap  J.  ap  ]fthel  vychan  ap  Hn  &c. 
Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  llwyd  &c. 

153  Edw:  aimer  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  ^.  ap  Dd:  &c. 

154  Ho:  ap  ^,  ap  ho:   ap  'j.  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 
B.  ap  "j.  ap  Jankyn  ap  ftn  ap  Itbel  go}  &c. 

155  Edwart  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  iin  &c. 
Ho:  ap  Gronw  ap  J.  ap  Gronw  ap  hwva  &c. 

166  D.  deka  ap  J.  deka  ap  Edw:  ap  feuan  &c. 

D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ]f.  ap  Gr:  o  vrynneglwys  &c. 

157  J.  ap  Madog  ap  f.  ap  madog  ap  ^feuan  &c. 

J.  Wynn  ap  Rawling  ap  Mad:  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

158  [Broughton  :  J.  ap  Morgan  ap)  Robert  ap  Gr:  vychan  &c. 
{Broughton .-  J.  ap  D.  ap)  Robert  vychan  ap  J.  ap  D.  &c. 

169  J.  (v  Win:  raeib  1).  llwyd  ap  deicws  ap  Mad:  ap  'Jthel  &c. 

Robert  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  bady  ap  D.  g05  &c. 
161  Mad:  a  Rob:  meib  D.  ap  tegyn  ap  Mad:  ap  Jer:  &c. 

Elis  ap  Gr;  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  Mad:  kam  &c. 

*.Tbis  Sir  Roger  "  died  18th  January  36  Henry  viji  and  was  buried  at  Gresford 
on  the  21st"  W.W.E.W. 


790  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPT  128. 

162  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  ttn  ap  Mad:  voel  &c. 

Wni:  ap  MaJoc  ap  Hn  vychan  ap  ttn  ap  Mad:  voel  &c. 

163  D.  ap  J.  ap  ssiangkyn  ap  ho:  ap  ssiangkyn  &c. 
D.  ap  J.  ap  ssiaugkyn  ap  ^oHyn  ap  ssiangkyn  &o. 

164  D.  g03  ap  ttu  ap  ]ollyn  ap  lankyn  ap  J.  &c. 
D.  ap  J.  ap  bady  ap  J.  voel  ap  mad:  &c. 

165  Wm:  Bwras  a  syr  John  hwras  mikar  Eiwubon  &c. 

J.  ap  Ho:  ap  f.  ap  Hu  ap  Gr:  ap  Edn:  ap  ^er:  ap  Eiigo:  g03  &c. 

166  p.  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  Uoyd  ap  Jer  voel  <fcc. 

p.  John  0  Rodon  ap  John  o  rodon  ssergiant  &c. 

167  Wm:  /  J.  /  a  Rob:  =  meib  J.  ap  Hn  ap  Dd:  ap  Hn  &c. 
Wm:  ap  Hn  ap  mad  vychan  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

168  T.  a  Wm:  a  Madog  =  meib  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  ddv  &c. 
Rob:  a  tomas  =  meib  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  sytton  &c. 

169  Wm;  a  ssiangkyn,  Mad:  a  Gr:  =  meib  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

170  Richard  longfEord  ap  J.  L.  ap  Edw:  L.  ap  Ric:  L.  ap  J.  L. 

kynta  a  ddoeth  rathyn  gidae  arg:  Graey 
J.  ap  Gr:  evtvu  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  &c. 

S  ir  D  dinb  ech    ky  mwd  y  JV  av  n  : 

171  J.  Edw:  hen  ap  Jer:  ap  J.  ap  adda  ap  Jer:  &c. 

]  73  J.  trevor  a  Ric:  a  Gwenhwyfar  =  p.  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Edn:  &c. 
174-6,  182-4,  6  kynllaith  :  The  descend^  of  J.  Gethin  ap  Mad:  kyffin 

176  liynllaith :  Plant  Mad:    ap  Jer;  g05  ap  J.  voelvrych  &c. 

177  „  Ho:/R./a  Mred:  =  meib  Gr:  ap  Edn:  ap  Jar:  g05 

178  Nanhevdtoy :  p.  ftn  ap  addaf  ap  D.  ap  J.  a.^  addaf  &c. 

D.  arg:  abad  ac  Esgob  IL.  Elivy  ap  J.  ap  Jer:  ap  J.  baladr  Ac. 
D.  ap  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  iln  ap  adda  ap  ho:  &c. 

179  ttn  ap  Morys  ap  ho:  ap  ttn  ap  ho:  &c. 
Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  Jin  ap  adda  ap  D.  ap  jf.  &c. 

D.  ap  ho:  ap  deycwi  a  sir  J.  mikar  y  wavn  i  vrawd  &c. 

180  Plant  madoc  ap  Edw:  ap  Gr:  ap  Adda  &c. 

181  To:  Eioyd  ap  Dd:  lloyd  ap  ho:  ap  Morys  &c. 

182  Rich:  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  ap  Morys  &c. 

183  Wm:  ap  Reynallt  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Mred  &c. 

185  Reinallt  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

186  Mad:  heddwch  ap  Mad:  ko3  ap  Meilir  ap  tangwel  &c. 

187  Plant  Edw:   trevor  ap  J.  trevor  hen 

188  JL.  liayd  {\cal)adr  ymochnant :  p.  Hvw  ap  0.  ap  ho:  ap  0.  &c. 

189  Mochnant  vivch  liaiadr :  Gr:  ap  Kadr  ap  Owen  ap  ho:  ap  J.  &e. 

190  Btjrgedintj  ymhounjs :  Eeinallt  a  lioger  meib  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  lloyd  &c. 
Mechain  is  hoed  :  D.  ap  ho:  vychan  ap  ho:   ap  Mred:  &e. 

191  Kae  Ho: — D.  lloyd  ap  ssiangkyn  ap  Eic:   np  Mad:   &c. 
LI.  vihangel  yngheri :  D.  ap  Moris  ap  Madoc  ap  Engion  &c. 

192  Kid  ap  J.  ap  Eya  ap  Morus  ap  mad:  &c. 
Huw  ap  J.  lloyd  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  &c. 

193  Ymain—i/meivod :  p.  mred:  ap  ll'n  ap  gr:  lloyd  ap  U'n  foelgrwn 
Devddwr :  Ow:  ap  Gr:  ap  tho:   ^  Ow:  ap  Gr:   vychan  &c. 

194  y  traUwng :  Eoland  llwyd  ap  Eob:  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  fychan  &c. 

195  Eoh:  vyehan  ap  D.  ap  Mathe  ap  ho:  ap  ^  vychan  &c. 

Sir  Ddinb  ech  kwmwd  Jul : 

211  Tudyr/ssiankyn /Gr:  =  meib  ^.  ap  ttn  ap  Gr:  llwyd  &c, 

212  fal  a  Gu-yddehvern :  Elisse  ap  Gr:  ap  Enion  ap  Gr:  ap  ttn  &c. 
thvyth  vwch  aeron  :  Mam  Rydderch  ap  J.  llwyd  =  yngharad  &c. 

213  Sn  vychan  ap  lolyn  ap  jeuaf  ap  Mad:  ap  gronw  &c. 
liandir  Jthel  velyn  :  llys  y  kil  /  Allt  gymebr  /  bodanwydoc  &c. 

214  p    Gr:  ap  1).  ddu  ap  tudyr  .  .  .  o  Ian  armon  =  Rys  wyn  &c. 

215  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  ttii  ap  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Hn  ap  ynyr  &c. 
J.    lloyd  ap  tudur  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  &c. 

216  J  Uoyd  ap  Rys  ap  1).  ap  Gr:  ap  Jeuau  &c, 


THE  BOOK   OF   EDWARD   AP  ROGEK.  791 

217    Gwenmjm^g  •  Wm  :   Mydlton  ap  J.  ap  Roger  ap  D,  ap  Ririd  &c. 
Sir  D  dinbe  c  h — h  y  m  ic  d  Rv  t  h  y  n  : 

251  John  ap  Mred:  ap  'j.  llwyd  ap  ttn  goch 

252  p.  ^.  llwyJ  ap   Gr:  ap  Gronw   ap  lio:  &c. 

John  ap  Gi-:  ap  ^.  ap  D.  dilii  ap  D.  ap  Mad:   &c. 
Gr:  ap  ^.  wynn  ap  Engu:  ap  J.   ap  Gr:  &c. 

253  p.  To:  hen  salbri  =  s>-  To:  /  harri  /  J.  /  Rob:  /  ac  Elsaabeth 
j;wraic  Hiiw  koinvy  ap  Robin  ap  Gr:  go}  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

255  syr  John  Salbri  ap  syr  Roger  S.  ap  Syr  To:  S.  ap  T.  S.  ap 

Harri  S.  ap  Rawling  S.  ap  Wm:  S.  ap  Harri  ddv  Salbri  &c. 
p.  syr  John  Salbri  =  J.  /  D''  Robert  /  Tho:  /  Hinv  /  Edw:  / 

Roger  /  Giorg  /  Eliz:  /  Jane 
^.  gwyn  /  huw  /  tudyr  /  Ric/  a  Rob:  =  meib  Lewys  ap  tudvr|&c. 

256  f .  llwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  Rob:  ap  Gr:  ap  Adda  &c. 

Tho:  ap  tvdr  ap  Rob  ap  Qr:  ap  adda  &c.  Haw  S.   Vychan 

257  Wmffre  powel  mab  Rob:  ap  ho:  ap  tho:  ap  Gr:  llwyd  &c. 

258  Gr:  ap  f .  go}  ap  f .  ap  Mad: 

p.  Harri  Salbri  =  Harri  /  To:  /  Rob:  /  Elisabeth  /  Marg:  / 

Johned  /  Lowri  &c. 
p,  Rob:  Salbri  =  Wowlk  /   Rys  /  Rob:   /  D.  /  J.  /  Harri  / 

Raff  /  J.  /  to:  /  Edw:  /  Elin  /  katrin  /  mai'ged 
p.  J.  Salbri  =  pirs  /  John  wyn  /  W.  vychan  /  iTwk  /  Rob:  / 

katriu  /  Elisse  /  alis 
JEr.  ssain  sior  :  'j.  ap  R.  ap  Gr:  lloyd  ap  Robin  Rys  &c. 

^.  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  Gr:  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  &c.  || 

259  Twna  tec  ap  bleddyn  ap  Kyn:  ap  llowarch  ap  Engn: 
merched   Groaw  lloyd  ap   y   pen  wyn  =  g.    kynn:   vrawd  ap 

kyn:  v'u  &c. 

260  Pirs  lioland  ap  J.  holand  ap  D.  H.  ap  Gr:  H.  &c. 

p.  Mred:  ap  Gronw  ap  Gr:  Gethin  =  Rob:  /  W.  /  To:  /  &c. 

261  feuan  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

Merclied  Huw  Konwy  =  'Joned  /  Lowri  /  Elissabeth  /  &c. 

262  J.  Wynn  ap  f.  ap  Eys  ap  Gronw  ap  kynn:  &c, 

263  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  Engion  vychan  &c. 

John  ap  Mred:  lloyd  ap  Bn  ap  Gr:  lloyd  &c. 

264  p.  Mred:  lloyd   ap  J.  ap  Mred:  =  Rol:  /  D.  lloyd  /  W.  /  &c. 

265  J olo  Goch  ap  ^thel  g05  ap  kyn:  ap  Jer:  ap  kynn:  ap  dewis 

Lerod  &c. 
Rys  ap  'Jthel  ap  Gr:  ap  j(thel  goch  ap  kynn:  ap  ^er:  &c. 
Rys  ap  fer:  ap  itn  ap  Engion  vychan  ap  kadwgan  &c. 
p.  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  D.  go}  aji  D.  ap  gr.  ap  ll'n  &c. 

266  Trystan  Holand  kwnslabl  Jtastell  hrikierth  &c. 

p.  Tomas  salbri  ap  harri  =  syr  To:  /  Harri  /  J.  /  M*'  Rob:  / 

Elsabeth  /  Johned  /  Kwnstans  /  katrin 
mam  Rys  ap  Engn:  vychan  =  angharad  v}  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

267  &  283  p.   Harri  vychan    salbri  ap  To:  =  Harri   go}  .  .  tiid 

amgen:*  to:  /  Rob:  /  fEwk/  Elissabeth  /  Johned  /  Margred  / 
kattrin  /  Elin  /  Gras 
p.  Ho;  pigod  ap  Wilkoc  /  ap  syr  Rob:  pigot  =  Jankyn  /  Hn  &c. 

268  Aber  gele :  Pirs  ap  J.  Owen  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  Vychan  &e. 
Tho:  a  pirs  meib  Huw  dreies  ap  tho:  ap  Rolant o 

dreiwrst  yng  allt  melydr 
ssimwnd   tlielwal  ap  Ric:  Th.  ap  Edw:  Th.  ap  Eibl  Thelwal 
p.  ^.  lloyd  hyna  ap  tudr  ap  Rob:  =:  Rob:  /  D.  /  J.  /  Wm;  /  &c. 

*  The  list  of  names  is  lower  down  the  column  and  iu  rustier  ink  than  the  top 
part. 


792  PENIAETH  MANUSCEIPT  128. 

269  Tudur  ap  Rob:  Vychan  ap  Tudr  ap  J.  tudur  &c. 

270  IFowlk  Uoyd  ap  pirs  lloyd  ap  huw  lloyd  ap  John  o  Foxhol  &c. 
Hnrri   Rosyndal  ben  a  ddoeth    i  swydd  ddinbech  gynta  yn 

anisser  Edw:  i  ac  a  gafos  am  i  wyssaneth  da  i  harri  lasii 
■J aril  lingkol  arg:  dinbech  dir  dan  ssiartyr  &c. 
Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Jin  vyclian  ap  J.  aji  D.  &c. 

271  T.  Wynn  ap  Eob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Gronw  ap  Gr:  ap  Gr:  Gethin 
Henllan  .-  Wwk  ap  tomas  ap  Gronw  ap  J.  ap  Engii:  ap  Edn:  &o. 
p.  Rynallt  ap  huw  konwy  =  Harri  J.,  T.,  Jemwat,  D.  ll'cl  &c. 

272  )ouan  ap  Mad:  ap  Eys  ap  jftbel  ap  Gr:  ap  ^thel  go} 
Tudur  A  led  ap  Rob:  ap  jf  thel  ap  fta  chwith  ap  kyn:  ap 

bleddyn  Ihvyd  ap  bleddyn  vychan. 

273  Eos  vtvch  ac  fs  dulas  :  D.  Mred:  /  J.  /  a  E.  ap  Hn  ap  Gr:  lloyd  &c. 
Engn:  ap  Eys  lloyd  ap  ttn  ap  tndur  ap  D.  ap  Engn:  &c, 

Hn  ap  tudur  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Engu:  &c. 
Ryfonioc :  syr  Gr:  ap  Engn:  ap  tudur  ap  heilin  g05  &c. 

274  J.  ap  Eys  lloyd  ap  Jev.  ap  ttn  ap  Engn:  vychan  &c. 
dyffhjn  melai :  W.  wynn  ap  J.  Wynn  ap  W.  ap  Mred:  &c.* 

275  Bodryddan  .-  J.  aer  y  konwy  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  To:  fecf 

276  Esgob  R,.  elioy .-  To:  ap  D.  ap  Eob:  ap  D.  ap  J.  v'n  Scc.J 

Jo  h n  twd u  r§  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  Edn:  ap  Kwna  ab  bleddyn  &c. 

277  Dyff:  Jdwyd:  p.  Gr:  g03  ap  }.  ap  D.  v'n  =  D.  /  syr  J.  &c. 

278  p.  fin  vychan  o  V3  Gr:  g05  =  tudur  /  Gr:  /  'Jeuan  &c. 

270   Esgob  II.  Elmj  :  Wm:  ap  syr  huw  ap  kyn:  an  Gr:  gymrolf 
282  2L.  vair  D.  K.  —  T.  a  J.  p.  E.  Wynn  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  v'n  &c. 
284  Eich:  ap  j.  ap  John  ap  heilin  ap  Jeu:  ap  Gr:  krafnant  &c. 
290  Arfav  (coloured)  Eoger  ap  J.  ap  Elis  Evtyn 

292  „  „  Edw:  ap  Madoc  ap  Deio  o  vodylling 

293  „  „  Ales  v}  madoc  g.  Edw:  ap  Mad:  ap  Deio  &c. 

296  Arfe  a  plilant  Edwart  ap  Eoger  ap  J.  ap  Elis  Evtyn 

„     Tvdvr  Trevor  ap  Ynyr  ap  kadvarch  ap  gwernen  &c. 

297  „     karaber,  Brvtvs,  Kvnedda  ap  Kegav  &c. 
298-567.   The  a  r  m  0  rial  device  «**  (coloured)  of  the 

families  or  clans  of: — 

Aleth  breuin  Dyved,  350.  Elystan  glodrydd,  305,  333  517. 

Alo,  298.  Evnydd  Gwerngwy,  312,  428,  521. 

Awdlai,  Siams  argiwydd,  539.  Gr:  arg;  kyniytmaen,  424. 

Bell  mawr,  496,  502.  Gr:  ap  kynan,  300,  333,  360. 

Beliogegidva  .  .  .  Brochwel  ysgithroc,  Gr:  Maelor,  307,  436,  452,  480. 

303,  331,  410,  511.  Gronw  ap  Owain,  415-20. 

Blaidd  rudd,  312,  3.34,  359.  Gronw  ap  Tudr,  302. 

Bleddyn  ap  kynyyn,  303-4.  Gwenwynwyn,  304,  348,  370. 

Bleddyn  ap  Jleynyrch,  365,  555.  Gwerystan  ap    Gwaithvoed  vawr,  304, 
Bleddyn  Bletrus,  451,  461.  342,  360. 

Brewys,  W.  arg;  lirechenioo,  365.  Gwrgenav  ap  Ho ;  382,384. 

Bwldai,  argiwydd,  488.  Gwrgvnon,  302,  387,  409. 

Don,  Siankin,  326.  Haliwel,  John  0  belgre,  323. 

Edn;  ap  Bradwen,  315,  533.  Hari  i,  537. 

Edn:  ap  Bleddyn  B.,  374,  380,  451.  Hari  Lassi,  jarll  Lingkol,  529. 

Ednowain  bondew,  301,  312,  330.  Hari  EosTndal,  395. 

Ednyfed,  322,  330,  346,  508.  Hedd  Molwynoe,  368,  427,  466. 

Ednyfed  vychan,  302,  330,  444.  Holant,  Tryeian,  341. 

Edw;  Longssiongs,  breu:  Lloegr,  377.  Hopdn,  syr  J.  o  BoxfiBld.  356. 

Edwin,  bren;  Tegengl,  301,  310,  435.  Howel  arg:  Eos  a  Euvonioc,  300,  515. 

Eginir  ap  kollwyn,  299.  Howel  Dda,  302,  352,  417. 

Eiuou  Efell,  441,  476.  Ho:  kaerlleon,  499,  519. 

Elidir,  307.  Ho:  vychan  ap  Howel,  382,  384. 

*l!awW.  llyu.     t  Haw  Gr;  Hiraethoc.     J  1501-73.     §yprydydd.     ^1573-1600. 
**  The  same  shields  recur  over  and  over  again,  but  are  not  always  coloured  alike. 
The  references  given  above  indicate  some  of  these  variants. 


THE  BOOK  OF  EDWAUD  AP  ROGER. 


m 


Ho;  y  pedole,  304,  342. 

Hwva  ap  kynddelw,  303,  331,  410. 

lardtlur,  444,  522,  518. 

larll  Clar,  310,  403,  443. 

Idnerth  beufras  o  iaesbrwk,  353,  427. 

lev:  ap  ll'n  .  .  ap  Elidir,  492. 

ler;  ap  Mad:   .   .  ap  Elidir,  435. 

ler:  Drvryndwn,  316,  33G,  377. 

lerwerth  goch,  371,  41 1,  44S. 

lestiu  bren;  Morganwe,  300,  335,  452. 

Icuan,   arg:   arwystli,    379,    398,   451, 

alias  kcdeweiu,  305. 
Ithel  anwyl,  357,  420. 
Ithel  dalvrith,  421,  454,  507. 
Ithel  velyii  o  lal,  299,  473,  537. 
Ithel  vreniD  Gwent,  437,  452,  497. 
Ithel  vychaa,  309,  402,  50(i. 

Joha  breuin  Lloegr,  418,  462. 

Kadifor  ap  Gwaithvoed,  329,  330,  468. 

kadifor  ap  duwal,  4  SS. 

Kadwaladr  veudigaid,  433,  456. 

Kadwgau  o  Nanav,  313-4,  461. 

Kilmia  troedtv,  300,  339,  515. 

Koel  godeboc,  433,  566. 

KoUwyn,  319,  330,  402,  526. 

Kariadoc  vreiehvias,  386,  433,  480. 

Kunedda  wledic,  433,  556. 

Ivynan  tindaethwy,  433,  456. 

Kynddelw,  331,  449. 

Kynillin  ap  Gwaithvoed,  409. 

Kynvrig  Evell,  356,  425,  517. 

Kynvrig  Sais,  323,  422. 

Kynvyn,  towyssoc  Powj's,  301-16. 

Llowaroh  ap  Bran,  320,  341,  368. 

Llo:  ap  Trahaearu,  317,  333,  406,  330. 

Llo:  Hoivlbwroh  o  Ros,  400,  437,  537. 

Ll'n  aurdoi-chog,  299,  413,  428. 

Madoc,  335. 

Madoc  ap  Jarddur,  444. 

Madoc  danwr,  388. 

Madoc  ddv,  445,  522. 
Madoc  Llwyd,  396. 

Madoc  or  Hendwr,  331,  410,  448. 


Marohan,  317,  334,  359. 

Mai-chudd,  298,  330,  356. 

Marchweithian,  298,  328,  409. 

Meuric  arg:  Gwent,  310,  335,  397. 

Moelj'ii  o  dwr  kelj'n,  444. 

Mrod:  ap  bleddyn,  31 1,  345,  3r,0. 

Moi-oiddic  ap  Sandde,  417,  540,  557. 

MwutCfordd,  8imwn,  535. 

Nevydd  hardd,  3  )2,  ;187,  409. 

Nyiiio  ap  kyn:  33G,  392,  421. 

Ossper  ap  Gwystyl  ach  o  werddou,  531. 

Owain  ap  Edwin,  305,  416. 

Ow:  avgl:  Arwj'stli,  300. 

Ow:  Brogeintyu,  303,  331,  345,  302. 

Owain  Gwynedd,  303,  333,  374. 

Palkws,  339. 

Parr,  Arglwydd,  536. 

Peuwyn,  y,  298,  319. 

Pigod,  syr  Robert,  457. 

Pilstwn,  Syr  Roger,  438,  531,  553. 

Ph:  ap  Ifor  arg:  Is  koed,  535. 

Phylib  ffychdan,  431. 

Powys,  Syr  iwesser,  442. 

Reinallt,  bren;  Manaw,  437,  410,  537. 

Ririd  Vlaidd,  298,  328,  345. 

Robert  ap  Griffith,  508. 

Rodri  Mawr,  342,  357,  432. 

Rys  ap  RobiTt,  508. 

Rys  ap  Tewdwr,  304,  332,  351. 

Rys  goch,  368,427,  517. 

Sandde  hardd,  298,  329,  429. 

Seissylld  arg:  Merion,  314,  405,  461. 

Siarltwn'  Edward,  argb   Powys,   ap    J. 

ap  J.  ap  J.  538. 
Tegwared,  316. 

Trahayarn  goch  o  Lyn,  421,  423,  507. 
Tudr  ap  Gronw,  302,  409. 
Tudr  Trevor,  302,  330,  362. 
Walbre,  Syr  John,  365,  471,  500. 
Wynn  ap  Egiuir,413,  423,  429. 
Ynyr  ap  lonas,  357,  431. 
Ynyr  o  lal,  298,  409,  540. 
Ystraens,  arglwydd,  355,  444,  479. 


502-3.  (A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Cadwaladr  Brenin  Brydain  vawr.) 

589  Alaylor  S.  Mad:  a  ^angkyn  v'n  =  meib  D.  ap  Mad:  llwyd  &c. 
p.  Roger  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  =  J.  /  Roger  pulstwn  /  To:  /  fFylib  &c. 
jfangkyn  hangmer  ap  Gr:  ap  Edvr:  Hanmer 

590  p.  Morgan  ap  jfer:  ap  Gr:  ddv=Edw:  /  Ho:  /  To:  /  &c. 
691  D.  owrtyn  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

592  J.  Owrtyn  ap  Gr:  ap  ssiankyn  ap  D.  v'n  ap  D.  voel  ap  Ph:  ap 
syr  J.  wbton  o  boxfiild 

594  Rondyl  llwyd  ap  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  ap  MaJ:  llwyd  &c. 
Tomas  ap  O.  ap  fer:  o  blwy  Hanmer  &c. 

595  p.  ssiangkyn  ap  syr  D.  hanmer  =  Gr:  /  J.  /  Ric:  /  EJw:  /  &c. 
Yphenys  —  i/r  owredd :  merched  Gr:  Hanmer  &c. 

597   Yvaenol :  Johu  Uoyd  ap  D.  Uoyd  ap  Rys  ap  D.  &a. 
599  Tegeingl :  Richart  ap  Ho:  ap  ^.  vychan  &c. 
601  syr  Ho:  ap  dai  ap  'Jthel  ap  kynvric  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
p.  D.  ap  f  thel  vychan  ap  kynvric  ap  Rotpert  &c. 

603  p.  Mred:  ap  vchdrud  ap  Edwin  =  Gronw  o  Drevrydd  or  hen 

Jthel  gam  &c. 
Rys  ap  kynvric  ap  Rotpert  ap  bleddyn 

604  }  J.  H-wkes  i  bu  3  merch  :  (1)  gwraig  syr  Rog:  salbri  &c. 

605  p.  Mad:  ap  ttu  vychan  —  W.  /  Lewys  /  D.  /  Rob:  &c. 
Rich:  ap  syr  J.  ap  To:  ap  D.  ap  ^(hel  &c. 

J  88430.  '  ^ 


7-94  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  128. 

606  p.  J.  aer  konwy  =  To:  /  Rob:  /  ffwk  /  pirs  &c. 

607  Gwlgre :  Edw:  ap  Morgan  ap  To:  &c.  Haw  W.  llyn 

608  Ricliart  a  kynn:  =  ineib  if.  ap  D.  ap  'Jthel  vychan  &c. 
6(  9  Sailh  Merc'hed  ^tbel  vychaii  &c.  Mam  f.  V.  p.  613. 

p.  ]fankyn  Deka  =  .J.  Wyn  /  Eys  /  Gr:  lloyd  /  &e. 

W.  ap  1).  ap  To:  ap  ho:  ap  Mred:  o  goed  y  mynydd  &c. 

610  p.  Rotpert  ap  Jer:  ap  Rirrid  ap  ^cr:  ap  mad:  &c. 

Yrhob   ac   is  Redalvn 

611  D.  llwyd  ap  bleddyn  ap  Gr:  ap  Hoilin 

Nicolas  ap  deikvvs  ap  gronw  ap  gr:  grach  &c.  also  p.  61C. 

612  Gr:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  kadwgon  deka  ap  Jer:  &c. 

■Jtbel  wyn  ap  Nykolas  ap  gwyn  ap  Gr:  ap  Gronw  &c. 
^thel  wynn  cp    J.  ap  'Jthel  u-ynn    a  aned  ddigwyl  ddewi  y 
plygen  o.  k.  yna  13^2. 

614  Ed:  )wngk  or  hob  ap  Ric:  ap  Morys  &c. 
p.  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  J.  g05  &c. 

615  p.  Rob:  Trevor  ap  J.  =  R.  /  J.  /  Elsabeth  &c. 

Gr:  lloyd  a  D.  anwyl  =  meib  Gwynn  ap  Gronw  &c. 

616  p.  D.  ap  ^tbel  vychan  =  'Jthel  /  Gr:  /  kynn  :  /  ho:  &c. 

617  John  wyn  or  Twr  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

619  p.  Morus  yong  ap  'Jankyn  ap  fev:  v'n  =  J./  Rin:  /  &c. 
Rys  ap  J.  ap  ftn  ap  ho:  ap  kyn:  &c. 

620  Hartsheth  :  Edw  :  lloyd  ap  Rob:  ap  Edw!  lloyd  &c. 
Myuyl :  Rob:  ap  liys  ap  Wm: 

Aoed  y  llai :  John  Evtton  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  nicolas  &c. 

trer  beirdd :  Edw:  lloyd  ap  William 

trer  wyddgruc :  Edw:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Jankin  &c. 

621  tegeingl :  Elis  wyn  ap  "j.  ap  'Jthel  ap  D.  &c. 

622  Trevddyn  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  ftn  ap  D.  ap  Edu:  &c. 
Nerthhioys :  J.  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  J,  ap  Gr:  &c. 

623  Trefron  hoed:  J.  or  twr  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 
Pentre  Robin :  D.  llwyd  ap  Edw:  ap  R.  ap  Reynallt  &c. 
Arddvnwenl :  Eys  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  deicws  &c. 
Hendre  biffa :  J .  ap  Gr:  ap  nicolas  ap  J.  &c. 
Trcyrhua'l:  ^.  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  Reinallt  ap  Gr:  &c. 
Gwernajfild :  .1.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  Edw:  &c. 

624  Gwissane  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  lloyd o  g.acrvallwch  &c. 

llwyn  egryn  :  J.  ap  ]fthel  ap  Gr:  ap  belyn  &c. 

Argoed:  J.  ap  Harri  ap  ho:  d.ai  &c. 
liroes  esgol)  :  Wm:  ap  f .  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

Sir   gaer    He  on 

625  p.  Sir  pirs  dwthjn  =  J.  /S''  Wm:  /  Elen  &c. 

i  Jankin  don  i  bv  vab  =  syr  J.  don  a  las  yn  blowrhieth  &c. 
p.  syr  Geffrey  werburton  o  V3  syr  pers  a  Dwlon  &c. 
627  Malpas  :  p.  "syr  Rondyl  brerton  =  syr  Rondyl  /  syr  Ric:  /  syr 
J.  doctor  ac  Effeiriad  &c. 
Bahsffild ;  syr  John  ssaveg  &c.  [C/.  p.  6C8. 

Haolt  bvkle  nev  y  maner  o  hwllde :  Wm:  arg:  bwlkle    &c. 

Sir   V ciriony d d, 
G29  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  ").  ap  He  &c. 
6.30  JIo:  a  Gr:  =  meib  Rys  ap  D,  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  &c. 
631    Etlwavd  [ap  Roger  ap]   John  ap  Ells  Evttyn  o  blwy  Eiwabon  yraaelor 
pie  y  llyfv  liwnn  ac  Eilolwc  ymeniUed  Icyvavwyddyd  i  veie  a  chwaneged  yr  lache 
p.  D.  ap  "].  ap  Engion  ap  Gr:  .  .  .  ap  Osbwrn  wyddel 


*  In  the  original  hand  at  the  top  margin,  the  upper  half  of  the  top  line  heing 
cut  off.     We  are  not  told  who  wrote  it.    See  p.  896  below. 


TTfE  BOOK  OF  EDWARD  AP  ROGER.  795 

C32  p.  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Eugion  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  kynvric  ap  O.  W. 

633  (Hughe  Nanuey  ap  Gr:  N.  ap  11.  N.  ap  Gi-.-  N.  up  iio:  N.  up) 
D.  ap  Mevric  vychan  ap  Ho:  sselyf  ap  movric  llwyd  &c 

J.  Wynn  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  Eob:  ap  Mrctl:  &c. 

634  Morys  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  Ac* 
Robert  ap  ftii  ap  morgan  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

G35  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Eiigion  &c. 

Ho:  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  vychan  ap  J.  ap  Engion  &o. 

Ti-aivsfjjnydd :  p.  Gr:  ap  Jaugkin  ap  Eys  &c. 
C36  Gr:  ap  J.  up  grouw  ap  ]f.  ap  Engion  &c. 

Robert  vychan  ap  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  f  ap  Engn:  &e. 

kerric  y  drudion—tre  brys :  D.  ap  J.  ap  E.  ap  Hn'ap  to:  &c. 
Rob:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  ttn  ap  grouw  &c. 

637  J.  Madryn  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Rys  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 
Ryehart  trygarn  ap  kyna:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

638  Mr  Eob:  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  tudur  ap  ho  &c. 

639  2&.  ijMl :  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  ap  tudur  ap  Gronw  &c. 
Gr:  vychan  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  "j.  ap  tin  &c. 

640  D.  lloyd  ap  ^.  ap  D.  ap  Eys  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ddu  &c.t 
Gwenhwyfar  V3  jaugkin  ap  Eys  ap  ho:  &c. 
Owen  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  Giwn  lloyd  &c. 

G41  p.  J.  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  ap  ririd  vlaidd  &c. 

p.  Mad:  ap  Ririd  flaidd  —  Jer:  /  gwrgenav  /  Ririd  '  nwynn 

642  J.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  go3  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

643  Syr  niklas  ap  jfthel  ap  D.  ap  ifer:  v'n  &c. 
Ho:  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  g03  &c. 

JL.  drillo — Branes .-  Rob:  ap  Reinallt  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  &c. 
IL.  gwm—Dimnael :  Eys  wynn  ap  Mred:  ap  tudur  ap  f.  &c. 

644  Morys  ap  Ho:  ap  fta  ap  ho:  ap  kadwgan  &c. 
p.  D.  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  Eobiu  ap  Gr:  goj  &c. 
Mred:  ap  Rys  ap  ftn  ap  Rys  ap  O.  &c. 

(-K.  vwchllyn  a  JL.  yMl—3.  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  O.  &c.) 

645  Rys  wynn  ap  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

Taly  llynn :  syr  Owain  ap  glm  ap  'j.  tec  ap  D.  ap  ]fthel  &c. 
Gr:  ap  D.  tavarn  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Itn  &c. 
ttn  /  Gr:  /  tudr  /  syr  W.  =  meib  D.  ap  kynn:  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 
616  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  go}  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  &c. 

tudur  vychan  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  derwas  &c. 
Ho:  ap  to:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  Engn:  &c. 
tudur  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  lloyd  &c. 

647  &  655  p.  Ho:  koetmor  —  Rys  /  ^f .  /  Engion  /  Madoc  /  Gr:  &c. 

648  IFestvnioc  :  J.  ap  lewys  ap  f .  ap  D.  ap  ]f.  Ac. 
IL.  aber  :  Win:  ap  tudr  ap  Gr:    ap  Edn:  &c. 

p.  Rys  Gethin  ap  Gr:  V'n  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  g03  <fec. 

649  p.  Gr:  leia  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  g03  &c. 

Dolgetle  :  Ho:  /  Gr:  wynn  /  katrin  =  p.  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  'j.  Ac. 

650  IT,.  Ddervel :  J.  ap  Elise  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  tudr  &o. 
/.  lloyd  ap  J.  ap  Jangkin  ap  Eys  ap  ho:  &c. 

651  „       „        Edw:  /  Rog:  /  Reinallt  /  ho:  =  meib  J.  Wynn  <fcc. 
Bedo  aerddrem  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  .  .  .  ap  Ririd  Vlaidd 

-K.  goiver  :  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

652  m.  drillo :  p.  To:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  fen  =  J.  /Ho:/  Edw:  /  &c. 

653  p.  Gr:  ap  Sn  ap  J.  krach  ap  y  raoelvrych  <%o. 
Huw  ap  W.  ap  Gr:  vychan  ap  D.  ap  R)S  &c. 


*  LXyfr  Gr:  llwyd  ac  eryll  a  ddowed  Sfc,  in  rubric  in  margin — original  hand, 
t  Medd  lli/fv  John  trevor  'ic  Eryll  ^r. 

I  I  2 


796  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   128. 

G54  p.  y  glwii  ap  D.  ap  Madoc  or  Hendwr  =  ^.  /  D.  &c, 

Madoc  ap  J.  ap  j  kotfc  yr  hwn  a  elwid  Mad:  ap  kadwgan  &c, 
p.  D.  g()5  ap  to:  =  Rydd}  /  syr  J.  bikav  Ki  drillo  &c. 

655  p.  Gr:  (ap  Morus)  ?p  Gr:  ap  f.  ap  llys  ap  J.  &c. 
Ha  ap  Madoc  ap  Engion  &c. 

656  Pe«  mac/mo :  p.  Rys  ap  Rob:  ap  Mred:  =  if.  g03  /  J.  /  ho:  /  &c. 

657  Dot  gelle  :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Elisse  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  Derwas  &c. 

658  „       ,,         p.  tudur    v'n   ap    Gr:  ap  ho:  ap    G.    Derwas  = 

lewys  Gethin  &c. 
JL.  Egrin :  D.  Uoyd  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Aron  &c. 
(TL.fachreth  :  W.  ap  Rynallt  ap  Mred:  ap  Gtm  &c.) 
IL.  gelynui :  p.  Gr:  ap  Harri  ap  Gr:  =  J.  /  Glm  &c. 

659  p.  J.  ap  Morys  ap  D.  =  D.  /  Mred:  /  Golevbryd  &c, 
Harlech  :  J.  ifalkws  kwnstabl  harddlech  &c.  ap  J.  ffalkws  &c. 

660  k.  talybont :  p.  f .  ap  D.  ap  Hn  =  D.  lloyd  /  Rys  /  Ow:  /  ftu  &c. 

661  IL.  vwchllyn  :  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  jf.  ap  Rys  &c. 
D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  vychan  ap  Gr:  &c. 

662  m.  drillo  :  p.  Elis  ap  Rys  ap  D.  =  J.  /  to:  /  Gr:  /  D,  Ihvyd  &e. 
p.  J.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  =  J.  /  W.  /  D.  llwyd  /  lowri  &c. 

663  IL.  vatvr  ymhenllyti :  Gr:  trefgoed  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  tudr  &c. 
Tal  llynn  tarddenin:  f.  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

p.  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  f .  =  syr  J.  /  Gwenllian  &c. 

664  Malhcyd :  p.  Morys  ap  llowdden  ap  Rys  =  syr  J.  /Ho:  wyn  &c. 

665  Moris  ap  Rys  ap  Mad:  vychan  &c. 

666  Dolgelle — -penymaen  :  p.  Rych:  V'n  ap  gr:  =  Ho:  /  gr:  /  J. 
hymwd  ardudwy :  O.  ap  siangkin  ap  Rys  &c. 

Qiaethle) — A.  ystymaner  :  siankyn  ap  J.  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

667  '].  gwynn  /  itn  llwyd  /  to:  /  Mallt  /  Dyddgv  =  p.  ssiangkin  ap 

fin  ap  ho:  ap  Rys  ap   D.  ap  ho:  v'n  or  gilvach   wen   is 

Kerddin  &c.  Cp.  p.  732  infra 

Towyn — {kaethle)  :  J.  Vychan  ap  ssiangkin  ap  J.  ap  J.  v'n  &c. 

668  Ttaerynarfon  :  Nicklas  fFokssys  ap  J.  ffoxssys  ap  Ric:  &c. 

To:  /  Rol:  /  W.  /  pirs  /  a  Rol:  o  wrexham  /  ac  Elin  g.  0.  ap  J . 
O.  o  L.  faethlv  /  Jan  g.  W.  ap  R.  =  p.  Harri  bwld  .ap  W.  b. 

669  h.  Menai :  Mred:  .ap  to:  ap  Mred:  ap  kyn:  &c. 

D.  ap  Gtin  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  kyn  ap  gronw  &c. 
W.  Koetmor  ap  pirs  vychan  ap  Rob:  ap  ^.  &c. 

670  IL'n  ap  Hwlkyn  ap  ho:  .ap  ^er:  ddv  ap  ^er:  ap  gr:  &c. 
M''  W.  vychan  [yr  hen  siambjrlen]  ap  GIm  ap  Gr:  &c. 

671  syr    W.  Gr:  ssiambrlen  ap  syr  W.  ap  \N .  V'n  yr  hen  ssiamb" 

672  O.  a))  tndyr  Vychan  ap  Gtm  ap  Gr:  ap  GJni  &c. 

Ric:  Ow;  ap  Ric.  O.  ap  Ric:  ap  Owain  &c.  tlaw  W.  LUjn 

p.  Edn:  v'n  o  von  =  Tiidr  /  ll'n  /  R.  /  jfer:  /  Ho:  esgob  Ban: 

673  syr  J.  .ap  Gr:  ap  syr  To:  ap  syr  Rys  &c.  o   Vo)i. 
Jangkyn  jip  ~D.  ap  Mad:  krach  ap  Gronw  &c. 

674  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Hwlkyn  llwyd  ap  tudr  &c. 

tier  Itelyn—bod  afon  :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  Hwlkyn  U'd  &c. 
{Ncinney)  :  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  Mevric  v'n  ap  Ho:  selyf  &c. 

675  {Dolgelle) :  'J'udur  vychan  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  Derwas  &c, 
Aber  Itonwy :  Huw  liwx  ap  W.  liwx 

Edn:  ap  ho:  ddu  ap  Edn:  ap  Engn:  ap  ^ddon  &c. 
S i r    V on : 

676  p.  Ho:  ap  Bobin  ap  Gr:  ap  Gtm  =  J.  /  Hn  &c.      See  p.  611 
p.  0.  ap  Mevric  ap  Sn  ap  hwlkyn  =  Huw  /  J.  /  Rol:  /  Gibwn 
/(.  lliwon  :  p.  J.  lewys  ap  liuw  ap  Hn  =.  Huw  /  watkyn  &c. 
Ucr  helyn :  Harri  ap  Rys  ap  ^.  ap  Itn  chwith  ap  kyn:  &c. 
Menai :  Ricbart  ap  Mred:  &\)  lomas  ap  Mred:  &c. 


THE  BOOK  OF   EDWAED  iP  ROGER.  797 

677  p.    Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Eden:  vychau  =  syr  E.  hen  /  Hob:  &c. 
p.  To,  ap  Gr:  ap  nikolas  =  syr  Eys  ap  tonias  &c. 

678  p.  Tudr  ap  gronw  ap  gronw  vychan  =  Edn:  /  R,  /  Gtm  &c. 
BrynUr :  p.  ]f.  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  =  Bob:  wynn/morus  owen  &c. 

679  Meirionydd — Edeirnioit :  Huw  Gwynn  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  ap  ^.  &c. 

680  W.  kynnic  al  ap  J.  ap  1).  ap  ho:  ap  Engion  ap  deicws  du  &c. 

681  niklas  arg:  Escob  bangor  [156G-84]  ap  J,  Robin  &c. 
Eichart  Esgob  dewi  [1561-81]  ap  D.  ap  grono  ap  deio  ap  Edn:  &c. 
Lewys  ap  hugh  ap  W.  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  bangor  &c. 

682  p.  ac  wyron  D.  Bangor  ap  ^.  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

683  TL.  fair  vechan :  Rob:  ap  Ric:  ap  Wm:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

684  Wmffre  ap  D.  ap  tonias  ap  D.  ap  'j.  &c. 

Ykornioge     s  sir    d  d  en  b  i  g  7i 

685  Rob:  Wynn  ap  Rob:  Gethin  ap  Morns  Gethin  &c. 

Gr:  Hiraethoc  ap  mathav  a  mawd  y  glynn    llavi  W.  Llyn 

711  JL,  h.  mair :  p.  to:  ap  D.  ap  ^.  =  Lewys  /Rys  /  J.  /  W.  &c. 

712  tref  gil  Itychwyn — y  beryw  :  p.  Griffri  ap  Hn  =  Morus  /  Edw: 
Nan  mel — k.  gwarthrynion  :  p.  ]f .  ap  Ph:  =  Lewys  /  D.  /  E.  &c. 

713  ire  y  bloicty — JL.  gadvan  :  p.  Gr:  ap  R.  moel  =  D.  /  Ric:  &c. 

714  IL.  vrfid :  p.  huw  ap  bedo  gwynn  =  D.  /lewys  /  katrin  &c. 
TL,  wyiioc  yn  is  /toed  arwystli :  p.  ttn  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  =  D.  &c. 

715  „  ,,         Morus  ap  tud'  ap  f .  ap  Griffri  &c. 

&  112  Darowen:  p.  Iew3's  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  =  ]f.  /  S. /elen  &c. 
71G  p.  Edn:  ap  gr:  ap  tin  vychan  ap  Rn  ap  gr:  &c. 

Pemiegoes :    Gr:  ap  Morus  ap  D.  blaene  ap  Mred:  &c. 

717  Rys  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  if.  vychan  ap  Gr:  &c. 

&  117  Darowen:  D.  goch  ap  Hn  ap  Mevric  ap  Hn  goch  &c. 

718  &  1 17  Machynllaith :  p.  J.  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  =  Huw  /  O.  /D.  lluyd 

719  Darowen :  p.  O,  ap  D.  ap  R.  =  D.  /  lewys  /  Rys  /  ]f.  &c. 

720  IL.  brynmair :  Morus  ap  O.  ap  Hn  ap  O.  ap  Gr:  &c, 

721  JL.  guric  :  p.  Rys  ap  adda  =  D.  /  Morus  /  Gwladus  &c. 

722  JL.  idles — tre  dreflyn :  D.  ap  Morgan  ap  Hn  ap  ho:  &c. 
harno — is  hoed,  arwystli :  Marged  V5  D.  ap  Harri  ap  Mred:  &c. 

723  „        p.  tin  ap  tudr  ap  Gr:  =  kattiin  /  Margred  &c. 
JL.  guric :  p.  Morus  ap  jfangkyn  g05  =  ^.  /  O.  /  W.  /  &c. 

724  p.  to:  np  R.  ap  ho:  lluyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Mad:  danwr  &c. 
Hn  ap  Morus  ap  R.  ap  adda  a  beriodos  gole  V3  to:  ap  E. 

725  JL.  brynmair  :  p.  J.  ap  Morus  ;ip  ').  goj  =  Gr:  /  J.  /  Mabli  &C. 

,,  p.  Ho:   ap  'jf.  vychan  —  Wcnllian  /  Mari  &c. 

JTj.  idles:  O.  gwynn  ap  Hn  llwyd  ap  "j.  Eys  &c. 

726  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  "j.  ap  Rys  ap  O.  vycimn  &c. 

727  JL.  ddinavi — k.  is  heed,  yrwistli :  p.  Morys  goch  ap  D.  =  D.  &c. 

728  JL.  ui/nog  :  p.  0.  ap  Mred:  =  D.   lluyd  /  lewys  &c. 

729  IL.  idles  :  p.  O.  ap  Hn  ap  O.  =  J.  /  lewys  /  mallt  &c. 

730  Pennegees  ynhyfelioc  Res  y  garec :  p.  E.  wynn  ap  E.  =  J. 

llwyd  /  Eydd5  &c. 

731  Malhvyd  ymowddwy  :  p.  D.  ap  J.  =  ^.  lloyd  /  J.  Wynn  &c. 

732  k.  i-ivch  hoed  yrwistli:  Morys /R.  I  !>■  /  J-  &c.  p.  J.  ap  j[. 

gwynn  .  .  .  ap  ho:  v'n  or  gilfach  wen  ynifionydd  iskerddin 

733  D.  ap  givilim  gam  ap  glni  ap  gwrioared  ap  glm  ap 
gwrwared  ap  kybelyn  fardd  ap  gwyn  fardd  dyfcd  ap  Icynan  gerdd 
gemell  ap  gwrangon  feindroed  iarll  kaer  wyrangon. 

734  vii  merched  ].  ap  Mad:  ap  Gwenwjs  =  Gwenhwyfar  &c. 

p.  llowdden  ap  E.  ap  llowdd:  ap  J.  lloyd  =  siankin  /  R.  /  O.  &c. 

griffri  ap  R.  fougam  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

p.  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  bedo  =  D.  /  Rys  /  marged  &c. 


798  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   l28. 

736  IL.  llwch  haiarn,  hydewen :  J),  ap  Tud'  ap  Mred:  ap  ttn  v'n  &c. 
To:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  Uoyd  &c. 

737  IL.  guric  :  p.   Lewys  ap   Ho:  mowdilwy  =  D.  /  ^.  /  Gr:  /  K. 

Dyddgv  /  Gole  &c. 
IL.  b.  mair :  p.  D.  ap  ho:  ap  0.  ap  Gr:  =  Morgan  /  wmflfre  &c. 

738  Elfel  vivch  mynydd  y  ddisserth  :  p.  T.  ap  Gr:  ap  R.  =  W.  &c. 

739  El/el  V.  7)1.  tref  y  koed:  p.  Morys  ap  J.  chwith  =  J.  Watkin  &c. 
IL.  Jihangel  kefyn   y  llys  ymilienydd :  p.  Ph.   ap  ho:  ap  ). 

goch  =  J./  Elis  &c. 

740  Betws  yn  Elfel  v.  m.  pentre  y  nant :  p.  Rikart  ap  ho:  =  J.  &c. 

Sir  y   JPlint — Maylor    Sayssnec: 

759  Syr  To:  Hanmer  ap  Ric:  ap  Gr:  ap  jfangkyn 

760  Gr:  ap  Morgan  gooh  ap  Gr:  aj)  jfer:  voel  .  .  .  ap  Rys  ssais  Ac. 

761  To:  Diemoc  hen  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  domoc  .  .  .  .  ap  ]i.  ssais  &c. 
Pli:  ap  Mad:  ap  ).  ap  ler:  ap  Mad:  ap  Meilir  &c. 

762  p.  Eye:  ap  Mad:  ap  ftn  ap  Edn:  =  Rob.  /  J.  /  llerkv  &c. 
^er;  g05  ap  Edn:  ap  Mad:  ap  Gr:  ddv  &c. 

763  Sir  cjarnarvon  :  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  hwlkyn  lloyd  &c. 
p.  Ho:  ap  ftn  ap  ho:  ap  |er:  =  R.  /  Gr:  /  Jerr:  &c. 

764  Tudur  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  Rys  &c. 
ILu-ydiarth  y  Mon  :  D.  ap  Gl'm  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  &c. 

765  Ho:  y  varf  ap  ttn  ap  ho:  ap  ^er:  ddv  &c. 

p.  Ha  ap  tudur  ap  D.  =  R.  wynn  /  f.  Vn  /  J.  dec  &c. 

766  p.  ho:  ap  ftn  ap  ho:  =  R.  /  gr:  /  jfer:  &c. 

p.  D.  vychan  ap  D.  llwyd  =  kwnws  /  gwladus  &c. 

767  ftn  ap  tudur  ap  J.  ap  gr:  Engion  &c. 

768  Ric:  O.  ap  Ric:  ap  O.  ap  tudur  vychan  &c. 

k.  fwrkelyn  :  Harri  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  Hn  chwith  &c. 

769  p.  J.  lewys  ap  Huw  ap  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  =  Huw  /  watykyu  &c. 
talybolion  :  p.  R.  ap  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  =  J.  /  RoIj:  <fec. 

Hani  ap  R.  ap  'j.  ap  Ha  chwith 
Menai :  Ric:  ap  Mred:  ap  thomas  ap  mred:  &c. 
Eys  ap  ho:  ap  R.  ap  Hu  ap  D.  ap  ').  wyddel 
Tindaethwy  ;  J.  ap  O.  ap  tudur  vychan  ap  gim  &c. 

770  IL'n  ap  ]f.  ap  Rys  gethin  ap  Gr:  vychan  &c. 

C  Morus  Glyn  a  W.  Glynn  meib  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Hwlkyn  &c. 
D.  ap  Edn:  ap  ho:  ap  kyn:  ap  Edn:  &c. 

771  Rydd3  ap  D.  ap  ^.  ap  Edn;  ap  Gr:  ap  Hn  ddv 
Huw  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Robin  ap  Gr:  ap  Gtm  &c. 

780  Henwe  kwhiol  or  ssirryddion  a  fv  ynn  ssir  Ddinbech  ol  yn  ol. 

John  ssalusbury  squyer  Dr.  Ellis 

syr  J.  ssalusbury  marchoc  Edward  Aimer 

syr  John  Pulston  marchoc  Robert  pulston 

John  pulston  tir  raon  1560  Robert  flBechyer 

1545  John  Owen  Thomas  ap  Moru.s 

Robert  ssalusbury  (o  Ruge)  Robert  ap  Hugh 

John  Edwardej  Geffrey  Holand 

Kydwaladr  ap  Morus  John  ap  Tho:  ap  Wra: 

Rob,  Wynn  apkydwaladr  1565  Edward  konwey    (o    fryn- 

1550  Doctor  Elis  evryn) 

John  lloyd  o  ^al  Hugh  pulston 

William  moston  ffowlk  llwyd 

Edward  Aimer  'Jeuan  lloyd  o  jfal 

Robert  Mas-i  Doctor  Elis 

J  555  ffowlk  lloyd  1570  Robert  pulston 

Jhoinns  !?clot  Edward  Alroei' 


THE  BOOK   OF  EDWARD  AP  EOGEE. 


799 


ssymwnd  thelwal 

Doctor  Elis 

Rob:  Wynn  ap  kydwaladr 
1575  syr  John  ssalbri 

Edward  Johns 

John  Wynn  ap  William 

peers  holand 

Thomas  Morus 
1580  John  Prys  de  derwen 

Owen  brierton 

Edward  hughs  (Receavor) 

^euan  lloyd  o  )al 

Peers  Owen 
1585  Harry  Parry 

W.  Wynn  ap  J.  Wyn  ap  W. 

Wylliam  Aimer 

Owen  brerton 

Edward  Eyton 
1590  Edward  Theloall 


Thomas  Powell  o  Horsley 
ffoulke  lloyd 

782  Siri(fion  sir  feirionijdd  er  penn  ismvdwyd  y  siryfion 


Henry  ap  y.  lloyd 
Gr:  Wynn  o  Lanrwst 

1595  Tliomus  Wynn  ap  Richard 
David  Holand 
S'  Robert  Salusbury 
Edward   Brereton    a  marw 
wnaeth  28  Mehevin  1598 
a  Robert  Sontley  a  orffen- 
nodd  y  flwyddyn  allan 
Thomas  Price  o  bias  yolyn 

1600  William  Middleton 
Owen  vychau 
David  Holland 
Edward  Eyton 
John  lloyd  or  vaynol 

1605  kadwaladr  wynn  or  voylas 
John  gwynn  o  Wyder 
■Jeuan  Meredith 
Moi'gan  Broughton 
Hugh  gwyn  grifF 
Sir  Richard  Trevor  knight 


Elissav  ap  JMorvs 
Biangkin  ap  J.  ap  'J 
John  Powys 
Robert  salbri  o  rue 

1545  Ric:  mytyn 

Lewys  ap  Owen 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 
Rys  vychan  ap  Wm: 
Robert  salbri  o  rvc 

1550  jfeuan  ap  D.  liwyd 
J.  ap  Huw  ap  ^euan 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 
Edwart  ystanle 
Ric:  Mytyn 

1555  Lewys  ap  Owain 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 
Rys  vychan  ap  Wm: 
■Jeuan  ap  D.  Uwyd 
John  salbri  o  rvc 

1500  Edwart  ystanlai 
Hvw  Pilstwn 
■Jeuan  ap  D.  llwyd 
Gr:  Glynn  o  bwll  helic 


Doctor  Elis  Prys 
vychan      1565  Elissav  ap  Wm:  llwyd 
John  Lewys  Owain 
Gr:  Glynn  o  bwll  helic 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 
Pirs  salbri  ap  pirs 

1570  Owain  Wynn  ap  J.  Wynn 
:  John  ^erwerth 

John  Wynn  ap  Elissav 
John  Lewys  Owain 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 

1575  Rolant  ap  J.  ap  hvw 

■Jeuan  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J, 
J.  Wynn  ap  kadwaladr 
J.  salbri  o  rue 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 

1580  John  Prys  o  Gogerddan 
■Jeuan  llwyd  o  ■Jal 
Rys  Hvws 

Ric:  ap  Hvw  ap  'Jeuan 
Doctor  Elis 

1585  Peers  salbry 

John  Wynn  ap  kadwaladr 


Hughe  Nanney 

783  Siryfion  sir  Gari^ARvon  er  pann  yssmvdwyd  y  siryfion 

7emwnt     llwyd      a     marw  Sir   Ric:    Bwklai    a    marw 

[wnaeth]    Gr:    ap    Rob:  wnaeth  ai   vab  Sir    Ric: 


Vychan  ai  gorffenodd 
Wiliam  ap  Wiliam 
Sir  Ric;  13wklai 
John  Pilstwn 
1545  John  Wynn  ap  Mrcd: 
Hvw  Pec 


Bwklai  ai  gorffenodd 
Gr:  ap  Wm.  ap  Mad  vychan 
J.  ap  Rob:  ap  tin  ap  ■Jthel 
1550  Sir  Ric:  Bwklai  yr  ail 
John  Wynn  ap  hvw 
Hvw  Pec 


800 


I'ENIABTH   MANUSCEIPT   128. 


William  ap  William 

Gr:  ap  W.  ap  Mad:  vychan 

1555  Morvs  Wynn 

Grvff:  dds  [=  Davis] 
John  Wynn  ap  Mred: 
sir  Ric:  Bwklai  yr  ail 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 

1560  John  Wynn  ap  Hvw 
Rob:  ap  Hvw 
Wm:  glynn  lliwon 
Gr:  glynn  o  bwU  helic 
Gr:  dds 

1565  William  Herbait 
Sir  Eys  Grvffydd 
Wm:  mostyn  o  vostyn 
Tomas  owain 
Morys  Wynn 


1570  Edwart  wynn  ap  Wm: 

Ric:  Mostyn 

Gr:  dds. 

Rys  Tomas 

Rolant  Pilstwn 
1575  Ricard  Pec 

Edwart  Konwy 

Morvs  wynn 

Ric:  vychan  ap  Rys  vychan 

Morvs  kyffin 
1580  Wiliam  Tomas 

Wiliam  ap  Morvs 

John  grvff:  ap  W.  goch 

Thomas  Mostvn 

J.  Wyn  ap  Hughe  ap  Ric: 
1585  J.  Vachan  ap  Rob:  Vachan 

Thomas  Madrin 


784  Hynn  a  fv  o  siryfion  yn  sir  FON  er  penn  newidiwyd  siryfion 


1541  Rolant  Grvffydd 

Sir  Ric:  Bwklai 

J.  ap  R.  ap  IL'n  ap  Hwlkyn 

Wm:  Bwklai  o  Berth  ami 
1545  Rydderch  ap  Dd: 

Ric;  Hantwn 

Rolant  Grvff: 

William  Lewys 

D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  Gtm 
1550  Hvw  Pec 

Sir  Ric:  Bwklui 

Rolant  Grvifydd  a  marw 
[wnaetli]  a  liys  Tomas 
ai  gorffenodd 

Tomas  Mostyn  hen 

J.  ap  R.  ap  Bj'n  ap  Hwlkyn 
1555  Tomas  WUams  or  ddisserth 

Robert  Bwklai 

W.  Lewys  o  bryssaddfcd 

Lewys  ap  Owain  ap  mevric 

Sir  niklaa  Bagnol 
15G0  Sir  Ric:  bwklai  yr  ail 

Morvs  Gi  vff:  yr  aer 


Rys  Tomas 

Sir  Niklas  bagnol 

1565  J.  Lewys  or  chwaeu 

D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gwilim 
Ric:  Hweit  or  bvw  mares 
Rolant  bwklai  o  borthaml 
sir  Ric:  bwklai 

1570  Lewys  ap  0.  ap  mevric 
W.  Lewys  o  bryssaddfed 
Ric:  Owain  obennmynydd 
John  Wynn  ap  ').  ap  John 
To:  Mostyn  ap  W.  mostyn 

1575  Edw:  konwy  o  iryu  Evryn 
Owain  Wds 
Doctor  Elis  Prys 
W.  Tomas  ap  R.  Tomas 
Owain  ap  Hvw  o  vodeon 

1580  Hvw  Hvws 

John  grvff:  ap  W.  goch 
Ric:  Hweit  or  bvsv  mares. 
Thomas  Glynn  llivon 
morys  kyflin 

1585  Doctor  Elis 
John  Gruffyth 


Owain  ap  Hvw  o  vodeon 

785  Sirryfion  ssir  y  Jjfllnt  yr  pann  neicidwyd  sirryfion. 

1541  Syr  Roger  Pulston  Richart  Grafner 

Pers  motton  Sir  Tomas  Hanmer 

Sir  Tho;  ILinmer  hyna  1555  Raph  dotton 


lauga 


Sir  J.  Holfford 
1545  Rodyit  lloyd 

John  Edw:  hyiia  or  VVavn 

Harri  konwy. 

John  Gr:  o  Gaerwys 

Sir  John  ssaU)ri 
1550  Sir  John  Massi 

John  Davis 

Pers  Mostyn  Iiyna 


Sir  Roger  brerton 
John  Gr:  o  gaerwys 
Wmphre  Domok 
John  aer  konwy 
1560  Wm:  Hanmer  orffens  hyna 
Wm:  Moston  hyna 
,Tohn  Trevor  Trevalvn 
Harri  Parri 
Wm:  Moston  ap  pers 


'rHE   BOOK   OF   EDWAlli)   AP   ROGER.  801 

1565  Jolin  Gr:  o  Gaerw3's  1586  John  Hope 

William  Mostoa  hyn.i  The;  Mostyn  of  Mostyu 

lloger  brierton  W.  Hanmer  ^cvanck 

Koger  Pulston  ap  sir  Edw:  Piers  Mostyn       ,, 

J.  Trevor  Trevalvn  1590  Piers  Grvft':  o  Gaerwys 

1570  Sir  Tomas  hanmer  iangaf  John  ILoyd  cr  Vaynol 

Wra:  Moston  hyna  lloger  Brucrton  'Jevangk 

J.  Gr:  o  Gaerwys  ^euan  Edwards  o  Lvnden 

Pers  Mostyn  'Jevangk  Wm:  Thomas  grvfF: 

Eoger    Pulsion    a,p    Roger     1695  Thomas  Ravenscroft 
yychan  Pulston  Robert  Davies  hyna 

1575  Lancelot  Bostok  Wm:    Hanmer  ap    Wiliam 

Wm:  moston  ap  Pers  [later  Sir'] 

John   Edwarde*    ^anga    or  Roger  Puleston  jfanga 

Wavn  Thomas  Evans 

To:  Moston  ap  W.  Mostvn       1600  John  aer  konwy 
Eaph  Ravencroft  William  Dymock 

1580  Harri  ap  Harri  Roger   Salusbury  o    varch- 

Roessier  brvwtwn  6grygg 

Pirs  grvff':  o  Gaerwys  John  ILoyd  or  Vayuol 

syr  HvAv  siomle  George  Hope 

John  Hanmer  1605  Sir  John  Conwey 

John  aer  konwy  S'  T.  Hanmer  ap  S''  J.  II. 

Bryclieinoc. 

787  To:  ap  Gwallder  liafart  ap  Jankin  H.  &c. 
Mad;  ap  ho:  ap  Man:  ap  trahayarn  ap  Mad:  &c. 
J.  ap  Gtm  ap  D.  ap  Gtm  vychan  &c. 

788  To:  ap  Harri  ap  Ric:  ap  J.  ap  Henrri  &c. 
To:  ap  Rob:  ap  Ho:  ap  Jer:  ap  Gronw  &c. 
Rob:  Winstwn  ap  Watkyn  ap  tomas  ap  J.  &c. 

IL.  vryaach — glan  hryn  livan  :  p.  J.  ap  J.  ap  Eoger  =  Ro:  &c. 

789  iL.  mihangel  nant  bran :  p.  Rychart  ap  Rych:  =  R.  /  Sisli  &c. 

790  iL.  V'el  riant  bran  :  p.  Glm  ap  Ho:  =  Ho:  /  Morgan    Jan  &e. 
Aberysgyr — Mair  a  chynyd :  p.  T.  ap  D.  =  D.  /  Elsabeth  &c. 

791  p.  Roger  o  Hergest  ap  Rych:  =  Mastres  Elsabetli  /  Ann  &c. 

792  p.  Ho:  ap  Eniou  o  nant  michiada  =  Mad:  /  Gr:  etc. 
hilyrch  ynghaer  Engion :  Tho:  ap  Gr:  ap  j.  ap  D.  &c. 

793  Mechain  :  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  vychan  &c. 

794  D.  ap  J.  ap  Dakin  benllwyd 

795  kaer  Engion  :  syr  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  ap  tudyr  Ac. 
Mechain  vwch  hoed :  p.  J.  vychan  =  D.  /  Morys  &c. 

79G  k.  Engion  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 
J.  ap  ftn  ap  Mred:  ap  Gim  Powys  &c. 

797  L  Engion :  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  Owen  ap  Mred:  llwyd  &c. 

798  Harri  ap  Harri  ap  Edm:  'Jarll  Richmwnt  &c. 

799  Pedigree  of  Henry  viii  traced  back  to  kadwaladr  vendigaid. 

802  Sol):  Syttyn  ap  J.  Syttjn  ap  Syr  Edw:  S.  &c. 

y  trallwng  ymhoivys  :  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  kadwgon  Gwenwys  &c. 

Sir   Dre    Valdwy  n: 

803  Edw:  gray  arg:  Powys  .  .  .  .  ap  John  o  Charllton 

804  Homfire  lloid  ap  D.  Uoid  ap  syr  gr:  v'n  &c. 

805  hegidva  ;  Tomas  lloyd  ap  huw  lloyd  ap  kad;  &c. 

„  D.  lloid  ap  D.  ap  Mathew  ap  kadwaladr  &c. 

806  Tlhel  goch  ap  Madog  ap  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn:  &c. 
Gr:  deuddwr  ap  0.  ap  mevric  ap  kynn  &c, 

D.  ap  gr;  ap  Ririd  ap  llywarch  &c, 


802  PENIA.RTH  MANUSCEIPT    ISiS, 

807  O.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 

808  Merched  Ho:  sselyf,  J.  Gethin,  Griffri  ap  alio,  Engion  distain  &c 

809  nieib  J.  ap  O.  ap  jf.  teg  =  J.  /  a  D.  Iloid  &c. 

811  Rob:  Iloid  ap  D.  Uoid  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  &c. 

812  {Y garth):  Homffre  ap  J.  Wynn  ap  gr:  ap  Eeinalld  &c.* 

814  Harre  ap  Mred:  ap  Tudur  ap  Kii  voelgrwn  &c. 
Marys  ap  tomas  ap  Mred:  ap  Tudur  &c. 

815  Owen  ap  Morys  ap  ftn  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

816  Oliuer  ap  to:  ap  Rice  ap  D.  Iloid  ap  D.  <fcc. 
8l7jReinallt  ap  J.  wyn  ap  J.  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

p.  Gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  1).  =  D.  lloyd  /  Mred:  lloyd  /  O,  &c. 

M"-  Gr:  lloyd  persson  IL.  vylling  ap  hvw  ap  Mad:  &c. 

p.  0.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  Gr:  =  to:  /  Wm:  /  Olifer  &c. 

818  O.  ap  lewys  ap  O.  ap  Mad:  ap  "j.  &c. 
Mnnavon  :  p.  J.  ap  Mred:  =  J.  /  Edw:  /  a  D.  &c. 
Mochnant :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Jolyn  ap  gr:  &c. 

Jack  gwr  o  bowr/s :  J.  ap  adda  ap  Jer  &c, 
Vstrad  marchell :  p.  D.  ap  O.  ap  ^f.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

819  Gr:  karon  ap  ^f.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

p.  Edu:  ap  Tudur  ap  Gronw  =  Engharad  /  ^ssabel  &0. 
Rys  ap  D.  ap  Ithel  ap  'j.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

820  Rich:  ap  Edw:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gim  &c. 
D.  lloyd  ap  Mred:  ap  ftn  ap  Gr:  &c. 

821  Deuthor  :  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Madog  &c. 

822  Gr:  lloyd  ap  J.   ap  Jenkin  vychan  &c. 

823  Y  doctor  Owain  pwl  ap  D.  vychan  ap  D.  ap  Adda  &c. 
syr  Richart  Pwl  ap  Geffre  pwl  ap  D.  vawr  &c. 

Hvw  ap  "]  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Hn  ap  Gr:  &c. 

824  Arwystli:  "].  y  glyn  ap  morus  ap  ^ankyn  &c. 
Wilaston:  Tho:    Williams  ap  Reinallt  ap  W.  ap  D.  <fcc. 
J.  g03  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ddu  &c. 

825  Wilkoc  Mowddwy  ,  .  taid    katrin   g.    Huw   bwrch   tad 

J.  Bwrch  arg:  mowddwy 
Rys  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  to:  ap  D.  gam 
}.  ap  ftu  ap  D.  g03    ....  ap  Mad:  ko5  o  Vowddwy 

826  p.  syr  Ric:  herbart  ap  Sir  Ric:  H.  ap  W.  tomas  &c. 
Itaer  Engion  :  p.  jf.  lloyd  ap   Bedo  =  1).  j  J.  /  J.  &c. 

827  J-  ap  Hn  a])  Mred:  ap  glm  powys  &c. 

828  Powys:  kydwaladr  ap  0.  ap  D.  ap  Adda  .  .  o  gegidva 

Mred:  ap  Adda  moel  ap  Gtm  .  .  .  ap  Maelgwn  kcri 
J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Gim  .  .  .  ap  meilir  gryc  &c. 

829  D.  lloyd  ap  Mred  :  ap  Hn  .np  D.  llwcli  &o. 

JL.  rhayudr — nannffyllon  :  Gr:  vychan  ap  lewys  ap  D.  &c, 

830  g.  M"'  Robert  o  Chivitne  =■■  alis  v3  (o:  ap  Rog:  v'n  &c. 

831  Rikart  ap  Sired:  ap  Rydd}  ap  klatri  &e. 
hjdeicaiH :  D.  Hoed  blaenav  ap  To:  &c. 

832  Sj.    tcrin   ynghyfelioc :    p.    Huw    op  J.  ap  D.    lloyd  =  J.  / 

Mred:  /  Ric:  &c. 
633  keinais  ynghyfelioc  :  p.  Gr:  ap  Gim   ap  G.    Derwas  =  Ho: 
Wyn  /  Rob:  /  Moris  &c. 

834  tre  vachynllaith,  hyfelioc :  Ho:  goch  ap  Gr:  ap  iiii  &c. 
hemais :  p.  Gim  ap  bcdo  ap  gvtto  ap  deio  ap  Mad:  &c. 

835  p.  Hn  ap  deio  bwl  =  Owen  /  Ric:  /  D.  /  IMallt  &c. 


*  With  additions  from  Lhjfr  Jeuan  brechva  and  lli/fr  John  wi/n  unllamoc  in 
original  hand. 


THE   BOOK   OP  EDWARD  AP   ROGEK.  803 

836  Darowen  ynghyfeilioc :  Edn:  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  tin  v'n  Ac. 

„       p.  ho:  ap  Morys  ap   ").  llwyd  =  D.  /  Gim  /  Kys  &c. 

837  IL.  Bryn  mair :  p.  gim  np  Hn  ap  Gr:  =  Rys  /  ttn  /  f .  g05  &c. 

„  ,,        p.  R.  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  ~  To:     kad''  &c. 

838  Ti/  Dewi :     Ilissiart  argl:  Escob  dewi  ap  D.  ap  gron:  &c. 
p.  'j.  ap  Itn  ap  J.  ;ip  Engn  =  D.  /  Marged  &f. 

839  fill  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Engion  ap  D,  ap  Ph:  etc. 

840  &  116  -K.  Bri/n  mair  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  gethin  ap  gr:  &c. 

841  IL.  idlos  :  p.  Aiorys  ap  D.  ap  fin  =  Gr:  /  Marget  /  Elen  &c. 
IL.  ddinam  :  p.  hvw  ap  Morys  ap  Edn:  =  J.  /',^.  &c. 

844  Penn  Egoes :  p.  Morys  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  =  D.  /  ^.  /  Hn  &c. 
Penn  Egoes  :  p.  Morys  ap  Hn  ap  ^.  =  Hn  /  f .  /  D.  /  J.  &c. 

845  Ki'n  ap  if.  ap  Mied:  ap  J.  g05  ap  Gr:  &c. 

Dolgelle  :  p.  Lewys  ap  Owen  =  J.  Wynn  /  huw  /  Edw:  &c. 

846  E,.  idlos ;  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  Hn  gymro  =  Ho:  /  D,  Ac. 
817         „  p.  O.  ap  Morys  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  =  D.  /  Mred:  &c. 

849  Karno  :  Ho:  ap  "j.  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  =  D.  llwyd  /  ").  j  To:  &c. 

850  Gr:  ap  Mred:  Vychan  o  veilienydd  &c. 
Arglioijddiaeth   Rys    ap    Tomas    barwn    kaeryw,    arg:    IL. 

sadwrn    a    chegyrwavn  a    chitssaen  /  Emlyn  /  a  chilkenin 
ac  Aber   acroii,  IL.    Rystryd   a  chloegin  a  IL.   gybi  /  arg: 
Gwibli  a  IL.  dimwr  ynhir  Gwyr.   See  Pen.  MS.  131,  p.  295. 
Vrien  Reged  jarll    Reged  /  bren:   y  Gogledd    ac   ysgotland  / 
arg:  kydvveli  &C.  Ihf''  Teumi  brechfai  j  ai  dowaid 

Dehavbarth : — 

851  Syr  Rys  ap  Tho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Nikolas  ap  ffylib  &c. 

852  Kadwgon  ddu  /  gtm  dew  /  bedo  chwith  /  ho:  y  vronn  a-J.  ddu 

=  meib  D.  ap  ho:  ap  meilir 
JL.  Gathen:  W  Rys  To:  mab  syr  "W.  To:  ap  Rydderch 
J.  Dwnn  a  Lewys  a  ho:  =  p.  Stivyn  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  ph:  &c. 
Kastell  givis :  syr  J.  Wgon  ap  syr  J.  Wgon  &c. 

853  Gogerddan  :  Rychart  ap  Rys  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  &c. 

854  M"^  Robert  Chwitne  ap  Gwnstans  ap  syr  Rob:  &c. 
Richart  Hakled  a  thomas  Hakled  ai  marched 

p.  syr  J.  bwrch  =  Elsabeth  g.  W.  newpart  &c. 

855  p.  IL'n  ap  ho:  v'n  o  vrycheinioc  =  D.  gam  and  his  descendants 

856  Edw:  ap  Ho:  ap  ^.  lloyd 

857  kadwgon  ap  Gr:  Dwnn  ap  ffylip  Dorddu  &c. 
p.  Ho:  ap  'j.  ap  Mad:  ap  "].  gethin  &c. 

858  syr  Water  Herbart  ap  arg:  W.  Herbart  iiirll  Penfro  &c. 
syr  Roger  Vychan  ap  To  :  v'n  ap  Watkyn  v'n  &c. 

859  IL.  ymddyfri:  D.  ap  Ho:  ap  Rydd}  ap  R.  ap  Ph:  &.c. 
hjdioeli :  Gr:  Dwnn  ap  O.  D.  ap  Rob.  D.  ap  Gr.  D.  &c. 

860  p.  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  kadw""  vychan  =  if.  a  ]fangkyn 

syr  John  Wgan  o  Wistwn  ap  J.  Wgan  Esq:  ap  syr  Harri  &c. 

861  Trefleeh,  Carm  :— Gr:  ap  ^.  ap  Ho:  ap  Engon  &c. 
klydai  :  p.  "j.  lloyd  =  Gr:  /  Rydd}  /  Morgan  /  Lewys  &c. 
syr  Jamys  ap  O.  ap  Gr:  'SVilkoc  ap  Hn  ap  O.  &c. 

862  Henffordd :  Syr  J,  Pris  mab  R.  ap  Gim  Gwyun  ap  Hu  &c. 
Gr:'ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  to:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  &c. 

Hn  ap  tudur  ap  Gim  ap  Engn:  ap  Gtm  &c. 
Brycheivoc :  J.  ap  Gim  ap  D.  ap  Gim  &c. 

863  syr  James  o  kroft  ap  Ric:  kroft  &c. 

keintyn  yn  sir  H.ffordd — y  kwrt  yn  Her g est :  ^iulys  fycban 
ap  Jamys  &c. 

864  TL.  Dewi  vrevi :  p.  Gr:  ap  trahaiarn  ap  t^iankin  goch  &c. 
JL,  bister  ymylienydd  gorddfaeloc:  p.  siaroys  ap  R.  apD.  &c. 


804  PENIARTH  MANUSOEIPT   128. 

866  Mred:  ap  Morg:  ap  ho:  ap  ffylip  &c. 
kemais^penvro  :  syr  Jamys  ap  O.  ap  Gr:  ap  Wilkoc  Ac. 
Aber  teivi :  Eydcl3  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  O.  arg.  y  Tywrjn  &c, 
vwcli  aeron  ddii  ynehevbar :  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  jf.  ap  ftn  &o. 

867  plas  waiur  yn  y  baili  brith  ymlwy  merthyr  hynoc  :  p.  D.  ap 

Gim  ap  to:  &c. 

868  IL.  dijvuelog  y  plas  yn  y  bevtyn :  p.  To:  ap  D.  ap  to:  =  D. 

lloyd  /  Lewys  &c. 
Brychemioc  : 

870  }:  ap  gtm  vjchan  ap  J.  ap  gim  &c. 
Siankiu  hafait  ap  to:  hafart  &c. 

871  TL'n  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  gam  ap  fln  ap  Ho:  v'n  &c. 

872  To:  ap  Jankia  ap  Mad:  ap  Rychart  fawr  &u. 
Edw:  ap  Gim  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  gam  &c. 

873  John  Walbi  ap  Jankyn  Walbi  ap  Gim  W.  &c. 
riobgyn  awbre  ap  ^angkin  awbre  ap  Morgan  A.  &c. 

874  J.  ap  Eoger  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  ffylib  ap  ho:  gam  &c. 
Ho:  ap  Morgan  orfforest  ap  E.  ap  Morgan  &e. 

875  Gim  ap  Morgan  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  &c. 
Ho:  ap  gim  ap  ho:  ap  Gim  Dew  &c. 

876  To:  ap  Morgan  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  Rychart  kv,. 

877  p.  Wm:  Evtyn  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Elis  Eyttyn  &c. 

878  p.  Rob:  pulstou  ap  syr  J.  Pulsion  ap  J.  P.  hen  &c. 

879  &  888  p.  J.  Pulston  ap  pirs  P.  ap  J.  P.  tir  mon  &c. 

880  p.  Eoger  vychan  ap  syr  Edw:  pulston  ap  Syr  Eoger  P.  &c. 
p.  To:  bulet  =  Edw:  /  To  :  /  Huw  /  John  &c 

881  p.  J.  pris  o  Eglwysec  ap  Edw:  ap  E.  =  Edw:  /  J.  /  Eic:  &c. 

882  Mam.  J.  lloyd  o  Jal  =  katrin  V3  J.  Edw.  hen  &c.  &c. 

886  p.  Edw:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  gim  o  Eglwyssec  =  J.  prls  /  Ric.  &c. 

887  p.  J.  Evtyn  ap  J.  ap  Elis  E.  o  Ermyn  V3  syr  Rog:  kyuaston 
p.  J.  Pulston  ap  J.  Pulston  hen  =  J.  /  Wm:/  Rob.  &c. 

889  KfWyn  On  :  p.  Roger  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

890  p.  D.  lloyd  ap  To:  lloyd  ap  Ho:  ap  Morys  =  Edw:  /  To:  &c. 
p.  ssiamys  Eyton  o  Eytton  ap  lio:  E.  &c. 

891  p.  Elis  ap  Rich:  ap  ho:  ap  Morgan  ap  ler:  &c. 

p.  J.  Brochdon  o  vrochdon  ap  Eondyl  B.  ap  ^.  go} 

893  p.  W.  ap  Wm:  ap  Gr:  ap  Robin  o  Wynedd  &c. 
p.  W.  Hanmer  o  fiennys  ap  ^angkin  ap  Gr:  &c. 

894  Wmffrey  Domoc  ap  Rondyl  ap  tomas  domoc  &c. 
p.  John  yoiig  ap  Gr:  yoiig  ap  lewys  yoiig  ka. 

895  p.  Wm:  lloyd  ap  Wm:  ap  J.  ap  Eic:  &c. 

p.  Morus  ^Vyuu  ap  iin  ap  ^.  .op  ho:  o  voelyrch  =  Ed;  /To:  Ac. 

896  p.  Edw:  ap  Roger  ap  J.  ap  Elis  Evttyn  o  RiAViibou  &c. 

897  p.  Roger  lioydou  ap   W.  Eocdn  ap  J.  Roydn  &c. 
p.  Roger  Deka  ap  D.  deka  vychnn  ap  J.  Deka  &c. 

898  p.  Eob:  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  .ap  ^er:  &c. 

p.  Huw  ap  J.  ap  'J.  ap  deicws  or  llanereh  rugoc  &c. 
p.  IL'n  vychan  ap  iln  ap  Mad:  foel  &c. 

899  Roger  ap  J.  ap  f.  goch  ap  D'.  g03  &c. 
p.   Rys  ap  5-  ap  iin  ap  ho:  ap  kyn:  &c. 

p.  Owen  briertou  ap  J.  brierton  ap  Ed«:  I>.  &c. 

900  J.  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  'j.  ap  Mad;  &c. 
To:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  &c. 

901  p.  D.  ap  Matlie  Wynn  o  drevor  ap  D.  ap  Edw:  &e. 

902  p.  J.  Sonnlli  ap  Rob:  sonnlli  .ap  E.  Wynn  o  sonlli  &c. 

903  p.  J.  ap  W.  ap  D.  Evtyn  ap  Hn  ap  Eden:  &c, 
p.  Eob:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 


THE   BOOK   OF  EDWAKD  AP  ROGER.  805 

904  p.  lanselod  Uoyd  ap  \V.  ap  Gr:  ap  ^ol^'n  &c. 
p.  Rob:  lloyd  ap  ]feuan  Uoyd  ap  Mred:  he. 

905  p.  yr  Aig:   Ilys  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  tevvdwr  &c. 

906  p.  J.  ap  f.  g03  ap  bady  o  Ruddallt  =  Rog:/D.  &c. 

907  p.  Tndyr  ap  R.  ap.  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Hn  &c. 
p.  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Robert  &c. 

908  p.  J.  ap  J.  ap  Robert  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

p.  PJrfj  pulsion  =  J.  /  Harri  /  Wm:  /  J.  /  Roger  &c. 

909  p.  Elisse  ap  VV.  lloyd  o  benllyn  =  W.  llwyd  /  Rol :  /  J.  Wyun  &c. 
p.  Wmff're  ap  Hnw  Gwynn  o  Edeirnion  =  Huw  /  Rob  :  &c. 

p.  Gr:  y  Glynn  ap  Edn:  ap  Gr:  =  Rob:/Edn:  /  To:  &c. 
p.  Rob;  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Rob:  ap  Gr:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

910  p.  Edw:  Pulsion  ap  Syr  Edw:  pulsion  &c. 

911  JLwydiarth  ynihowys :  p.  Ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  &e. 

912  p.  Raff  brochdyn  ap  Morgan  B.  ap  jfer:  g05  &c. 

913  p.  Mi-  Edw:  Gr:  ap  Syr  W.  Gr:  o  Sian  V3  S'  J.  pilstwn 

p.  Syr  W.  Gr:  (1)  o  Sian  ystradling,  (2)  o  Sian  V5  S'  John 
pilstwn  hen. 

915  Table  of  the  descendants  of  hynvrig  Evell 

916  p.  Rob;  Wynn  ap  kadwaladr  ap  Morns  Gethin  &c. 

917  p.  Eliz:  V5  Rob:  ap  Edvv:  o  John  ap  'Jthel  wyn  &c. 

917  &  929  p.  Lancelot  bostok  ap  Rob:  bostok  o  churton  &c. 

918  p.  Morgan  ap  toraas  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  &c. 

919  p.  To:  tanad  ap  ^f.  lloyd  vychan  ap  j.  lloyd  &c. 

p.  Rob:  tanad  ap  J.   tanad  ap  ]f.  lloyd  o  Aber  tanad  &e. 

920  p.  J.  trevor  o   Wigynt  ap  Edw:  trevor  hen  &c. 

921  IL.  ssilin  ynghynlleth  :  p.  tho:  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  ho:  &c, 

922  Trefahm :  p.  J.  trevor  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Ric:  trevor  &c. 

923  p.  Ho:  ap  Rys  ap  ho:  vychan  =  R.  /  W.  lloyd  &c. 

p.   T.  mostyn  ap  Ric:  ap  ho:  ap  J.  v'n  =  WnL/Ric:/ hugh  &c. 

924  p.  Edw;  Erlys  ap  J.  Erlys  ap  J.  ap  Edw:  &c. 
926  (  Vrondeg)  :  p.  D.  ap  Ho:  ap  Edw:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

926  Jiue:  p.  J.  Salbri  ap  Rob:  S.  ap  peers  ap  J.  ap  to:  &c. 

929  p.  Mred:  ap  Ric:  ap  J.  ap  Edw:  ap  Rys  &c. 

930  Giverssyllt:  p  .  J.  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  .  .  .  .  D.  ssytton  &c. 

931  p.  J.  ap  Edw;  ap  D.  ap  ^.  ap  ssiaiikin  &c. 

932  p.  J.  ap  ho:  ap  )en:  ap  Itn   .  .  .  ap  Engn :   G05  o  So/illi 
p.  Gr:  ap  Edw:  ap  Morgan  n,  frytnbo 

933  p.  Edw:  Johns  o  bias  kadwgon  ap  J.  ap  D.  &c. 

p.  J.  Wyn  ap  Rob:  sergiant  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  0  Groes  vocl  &c, 

934  p.  Edw:  treftbrd  ap  Rob:  ap  Edw:  &c. 

p.  J.  Roedn  ap  J.  Rodon  vyclian  o  Jsskoed  &c. 
p.  Mad;  ap  ttn  ap  griffri  =  ho:  /  f.  /  Jer:  Dd;  &e. 

935  Ejcti  ac  Emral :  p.  M"-  Rog:  pulsion  ap  Rog:  P.  ap  Sir  Edw: 

ap  Syr  Roger 
p.  ssandde  ap  Elidir  &c. 

936  p.  huw  pulsion  ap  syr  J.  p.  0  Iwyn  y  knottie  yn  abymhr  Ac. 
p.  tudyr  ap  Rys  Sais  ap  Edyu:  ap  llowareh  Ac. 

p.  ac  wyron  Owain  ap  bleddyn  =  yr  hen  ]fer:  /  tho:  <tc. 

937  p.  ac  wyron  Hn  ddv  ap  gr;  =  Mred:  /  Annas  &c. 

938  p.  ac  wyron  Mad:  llwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  ^fer:  voel  =  D.  &o. 

940  p.  Edyn:  gam  ap  Jer:  voel  =  Jer:  ddv  &c. 

p.  Madoc  llwyd  ap  7er:  Voel  =  Gr:  /  gwladus  &c. 

941  p.  Ris  tip  Gr:  ap  Mad:  llwyd  =  Edw:  /  Gr:  /D.  a  Mred:  ap 

Rys  &c. 

942  p.  Gr:  ap  Bn  0  bhoy  giorxam  ap  edyn:  llwyd  &c. 


8()6  PENrAETH  MANUSCRIPT   129. 

MS.  129  =  Heu:  455.  Pedigrees  by  Guttyn  Owen  and  others. 
Paper;  8f  x  6  inches ;   152  pages  ;  half  calf. 

There  arc  several  hands.  Pages  14-134  are  by  Guttyn  Owen  and  must  have 
been  written  in  or  after  1500  (page  97);  pp.  4-13  are  in  a  hand  slightly  later; 
pp.  141-51  belong  to  M.S.  138  below.  "  John  ap  Wyliam  ap  John  pie  y  llyfr  yma  " 
(p.  45).  This  man  apparently  wrote  pp.  1-?.  .is  well  as  some  marginalia.  The 
copyist  of  MS.  138  evidently  used  this  MS.  (pp.  97,  102  &  49), 

1  J.  ap  Kes  ap  D.  ap  gr:  liwyt  ap  lieilin  vyrych  &c. 

2  b\yrneyd  terwen  brav  tores 

byrig  mawr  lie  bv  rowiog  tes  &c.  Anon 

3  gr:  llwyd  ap  madoc  ap  D.  ap  madoc  &c. 

4  Arthvr  ap  vthvr  ap  kwstenin  ap  kadvor  &c. 
koel  Godeboc  ap  Tegvan  .  .  .  ap  Setli  ap  Adda 

5  Maxen  wledic  ap  fti  ewyrth  lileu  &c. 

6  Gortheyrn   Gwrthenav  ap  rrydeyrn  ap  dehevvraint  &c. 
kystenin  ap  kadwr  ap  gwrlais  iarll  kaer  loyvv 
Maylgwn  gwynedd  ap  ka.swalIon  llawir  ap  Enion  &e. 
kadwaladyr  vendigaid  ap  kyswallan 

7  &  19  Madoc  ap  Gr:  Mayliiwr  ap  Mad:  ap  MreJ:  ap  Bleddyn  &c. 

8  plant  Brychati  Brycheiniawc  ap  korvniawc  &c. 

10   2'«»-   ywelygordd  saint :    p.    Brychan,    kynedda   wledic,    a 
chaw  o  brydain 

p.  kyndrwyn  =  Elvan  povvys,  Gwion,  kynon  &c. 

p.  O.  dirmic  =  kornen,  Gwion,  Sidin,  kaiad   &c. 

p.  kaw  o  dwrkelyn  =  dirmic,  kilid,  Bangaw  &c. 
lip.  Egri  o  Dalyholion  yn  oes  vaelgwn  g.  =  Nudd,  Eonyn  &c. 

p.  llowarch  hen  =  Gwyn,  Morvdd,  pyll  &c. 

Ym  i  bv  kyd  vaen  hailion  ...  a  heno  irwy  vy  hvnan  LVch  hen 

12  p.  Kenav  ap  koel  godeboc  =  padran,  Grvst  <fcc. 

p.  ac  wyron  grust  s=  Meirchion,  Oliuer  gosgorddvawr  &c. 
p.  kynwyd  k'dion  ap  kynvelin  ap  athrwys  =  klynno  eiddvn 
p.  athrwys  ap  Mar  ap  kenev  =  kynvelyn,  pabo  p.  p.  &c, 

13  Gwrgi  a  fferedvr  meib  Oliver  gosgorddvawr  &c. 
Rydderch  hael  [p.  21]  ap  Tudwal  ap  keidio  ap  Dyfnwal  heu 

14  Jach  breiihinoedd  Hoygyr :  St.  Edw:  gonffessor  &c. 

17,   18-20,  24  p.  rrys  ap  tewdwr  =  gr:  /  ho:  /  rrydderch  &c. 
p.  Mred:  ap  pleddyn  ap  kynfvyn  =  Mad:  /  Gr:  &c. 
p.  kadwgon  ap  pleddyn  =  Madoc  &c. 

18  p.  Edwin  <ap  gronw  =  Owen  a  vchdrvd  ac  ewerydd 

seisyll  ap  dyfnwal  o  ivent  vchaf 

19  p.  Gr:  ap  kynan  o  V3  lychwyn  o  lann  hevlan 

20  p.    ac  wyron    kynvarch  ap  Meirchion  =  Hew  /  rrou  /  vrien  ac 

anarawn  arch  escob  Uydaw 

21  p.  )lon  hwylvawr  or  gogledd  =  Helgi  ac  elvedan 
Pedigrees  of  Kydd3  Hael   a   Morgan   mwynfawr,  Gwydion 

astrvs  ac  Emael  ados,  jfevaf  a  Chenav,  &  Gwythyr. 
p.  Don  0  arvon  =:  gwydion,  samsson,  amaethon,  'Jdwal,  evyd, 

Elystan,  Kynan,  Hedd,  adien,  elawc,  ac  ariandrod 
p.  Math  ap  Mathonwy  o  arianrrod  =  lieu*  Haw  gyffess,  Dylan 

ail  ton,  a  blodevwedd 

22  p.  Kenedda  wledic  .  .  hyna  mab  oedd  [?  tybiav]  a  marw  vv 
kyn  dyfod  i  dad  ai  vrodyr  or  gogledd  ^  wynedd  ymynnev  gwodvn 
y  bv  varw  /  Meirion  nieirionvdd   ap  tybiav  ap    kvnedda  ar  anodd 


*  This  MS.  reads  "  lien,"  but  older  MSS.  read  more  correctly  lle«  &  naut-lleu 
The  tame  mistake  is  made  in  Kvjion  10  lines  lower  down  on  the  page. 


THE  BOOK  OF  GUTTYN  OWEN.  807 

rryugtho  ai  ewythvydd  an  ynl  iran  ydoefli  hantref  mrionvdd 
Arwystl  ap  k.  ac  afas  kredigion  Dvnod  bioedd  lean:  dvnodic  = 
kym:  ardvdwy  ac  eifiouvdd  Edyrn  bioedd  Edeirnion  Mael  bioedd 
kym:  Koleion  ynyfFryu  klwyd  Dogfael  b.  ki/m:  Dogveilin  Ry«on 
[bioedd]  dyno  rri/fonioc  Oswacl  b.  osiveilion  Einion  yrth  b.  haer 
Einion  Gwron  .  .  .  tad  kyuwal  kariihwcli  kyuyr  a  meilir  .  .  a 
want  ill  tri  gyda  cb^'swalldan  llaAvir  i  gefnder  yn  gyrv  ygwyddyl 
ffichdiaid  o  fon  ac  i  dit'anasant  yn  llwyr  pan  laddodd  kyswalldan 
llawir  vyi'gi*  wyddel  yn  llam  y  gwyddyl  ymon 

23  &  25  p.  0.  gwynedd  =  ifer:  a  Gwenllian 

p.  Kodri  raawr  ap  Essyllt  =  anarawd,  kadell,  Mervryn  &c. 

27  P-  yago  ap  Idwal  ap  Mevric  ap  'Jdwal  &c. 

31  Gwhelyth  dihevbarth :  Eys  ap  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  Tewdwr  &c. 
G.  arllechicedd  vchaf:  larddvr  ap  trehaearn  ap  kynddelw  &c. 
G.  gwerth  n-ynnion  -•  Kadwallon  ap  Madoc  ap  ^erth  &c. 

32  G.  Potcys  :  Gr:  Maelor  ac  O.  v'n  ac  Elisav  p.  Madoc 
G.  aricystli :  Ho:  ap  leva  ap  ywain  ap  trehaearn  &c. 
G.  morganxvc :  lerwerth  goch  ap  Mred:  ap  pleddyn  &c. 

„  Morgant  ap  karadawc  ap  jestin  &c.  ^ 

33  G.  gicent :  Morgant  ap  Ho:  ap  f  er:  ap  ywain  &c. 

G.  Dyved ;  Ywain  ap  Elen  V3  lowarch  ap  hyveidd  &c. 

34  G.  kadelling  o  gegidva  ymhowys :  Gwynn  ap  gr:  ap  beli  &c. 
G.  henllyn  :  Meirion  ap  llenwev  ap  kaev  &c. 

G.  merioiivdd :  Kyuan  ap  brocbwel  ap  ednyred  &c. 
G.  ardvdwy :  Bleiddvdd  ap  kriadawc  ap  sennawl  &c. 

35  G.  rros :  Ho:  varf  vehinoc  ap  karadawc  &e. 

G.  dogveiling — D.  klwyd :  Kowrvd  ap  Elaetli  ap  elgvd  &c. 

tiwytli  liillin — meib  vchelwyr  :  Hwva  ap  kynddelw  &c. 

a.  Idllin  ymortyn  o  vaelawr :  ssanddef  hardd  ap  karadawc  &c. 

36  ff.  aelan  .■  Eniawn  ap  gwalchmai  ap  meilir  &c. 

38  a.  gtoyr  Pentraeth :  Geraint  ap  tegwared  ap  kynvarch  &c. 

39  G.  gwyr  rross  ir  it.  Edryd :  Ednyvcd  vychan  ap  kynwric 
G.  arvon :  Kyfnerth  vychan  ap  Kyf :  ap  Morgenav  &c. 

40  a.kollwyn  :  Merwydd  ac  eginii-  ac  Edynyved=p.  koUwyn  &c. 
a.  penllyn  :  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  ap  kollwyn  &c. 

41  jfstvlas — s.  Dinbech:  Rys  ap  edryd  ap  'Jnethan  ap  karwed  c^c. 
k.  vchalet :  p.  hedd  ap  olunawc  =  Mendyr,  gwrgi  a  gwillonon 
G.  D.  hlwyd :  Kowryd  aji  kadvann  ap  alaoc  wr  &c. 

Givhelythav  y  mars  Maelawr  a  sstcydd  y  toavn  oil, 

42  Tudvr  trevor  ap  ynnyr  ap  kadvarch  &c. 

ti.  trefawr :  ^evaf  ap  addaf  ap  awr  ap  ^evaf  &c. 

U.  nanhevdwy  :  fer:  voel  ap  ^er:  vychan  &c. 

U.  Maelor  hymruec .  kynwric  ap  Riw  allon  ap  dyngad  &c. 

43  a.  llannerch  banna :  lonas  ap  gronwy  ap  tudyr  &c. 

U .  bortvn  ymaelawr :  D.  ap  karadawc  hardd  ap  gwrydyr  &c. 
tt.  tref  aion  :  Evnydd  ap  gwenllian  V3  R.  ap  niarchan  &c. 
&.  entvn  a  sonlli  ac  erddlys :  Elidir  ap  R.  ssais  &c. 

44  a.  dudlyst  yn  ytraean :  fdon  ap  R.  ssais  ap  Edynyved  &c, 
tt.  s.  y  drefioeii :  syr  W.  pefr  ap  gronwy  ap  Tud:  &c. 

tf.  devddtor  a  mechain  :  syr  Rob:  powys  ap  gronwy  &c.      ', 

p.  Gr:  ap  gwenwynwyn  ap  ywain  kyvelioc  &c. 

G.  Me  Ho:  a  chrevddyn :  ^er:  goch  ap  Mred:  ap  pleddyn  &c. 

45  G.  edeirnion  a  dinmael :  p.  Ywain  bro  kyntvu  ap  Madoc  &e. 
G.  Nannav  :  Kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  &c. 


'  serigi  -wyddel  yn  Uan  y  gwyddyl  y  mon,"  Pen:  MS.  130,  p.  13. 


808  PENURTH  MANUSCRIPT  129. 

G.  hynllaith :  Einion  ap  Madoc  ap  Mred:  ap  pleddyn  &c. 
G.  tegaingl :  Gwin  ap  gronw  a])  Eodri  ap  ho:  dda  &c. 
a.         „  Edj'nywain  bendew  ap  kynon  veinad  &c. 

46  XV  llwijth  gwynedd :  Gwerydd  ap  rrys  &c. 

47  V  hrenhiniaeth  kymry :  Yngwynedd  Gr:  ap  kyimn  &c. 

k.  y  krocsvaen  .-  ssyr  rroesier*  o  kinast  a  ph:  a  laukyn  &c. 

49  Poivys  wenwynwyn  :  Gwraic  syr  roesier  =  Esabeth  V3  Hari 

■jarll  tangkyrffil  ap  'Jan  V3  edwai-t  o  ehavlton  arg:  powys  &c. 
hymoycl  kefyn  blaidd  hynllaith  :  Kyhelyn  ap  Kun  ap  enioii 
evell  &c. 

50  hynllaith  :  Gronw  ap  engion  ap  seisyllt  &c. 

51  „  p,  fen:  vycban  ap  jf.  gethin  ap  Mad:  &c. 

52  „  Gr:  ap  J.  gethin  ap  Madoc  kyffin  &c. 

53  „  p    Mad:  ap  fer:  goch  ap  )eu:  voei  &c. 

54  „  p.  gr:  ap  edyn:  ap  fer:  =  Ho:  a  rrys  a  Mred:  &c. 

55  JEd'n  a  dinmael :  rrandir  0.  hrogyntyn  :  p.  R.  np  D.  ap  bo:  =  Ho: 

57  „  „         D.  ap  tudyr  ap  ywain  vychan  &c. 

58  „  „         Gr.  ap  D.  ap  E.  ap  f.  ap  ftn  ddv  &c. 

59  .,  „         p.  D.  ap  ]f.  ap  Engn:  ap  gr:  at  Hn  &c. 

60  ,,  Mam  J.  ap  Engn:  =  danglwystyl  v}  rryd}  ap  if.  ll'd 

62  &  132  Swydd  inbych :  g.  syr  To:  o  salbri  yw  sioned  V5  W.  v'n 
03  „  „         g.  Hari  0  salbri  yw  Margred  V5  Gr:  ap  R. 

Dehevharth :  Syr  rrys  ap  tomas  ap  gr:  ap  nigolas  &c. 

Powys  Wenwynwyn :  Mer:  ap  addaf  moel  ap  gwilym  &c. 
Maelor  saesnec  : 
64  Johon  o  hangmer  ap  ^fankyn  &c. 

67  Gr:  ap  Morgan  goch  ap  gr:  ap  jfer:  voel  &e. 
To:  domoc  ap  J,  ap  D.  ap  To:  &c. 

68  ffylip  ap  Mad:  ap  Jevaf  &c. 

70  p.  richiart  ap  Mad:  ap  ftn  =  Eob:  /  John  /  llevgv  &c. 

71  p.  fankyn  ap  Jerth  vychan  =  Morvs  /  Jank:/  lewys  &c. 

72  p.  edyn:  ap  ho:  =  gr:  /  D.  /  Ho:  &c. 

Maelor  hymraec  : 

73  Ho:  ap  gronwy  ap  J.  ap  gronwy  &c. 

74  W.  Evtyn  ap  Johon  ap  Jamys  &c. 

76  John  ap  Elis  ap  J.  Evtvn 

77  J.  plstwn  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  rrobert  &c. 
79  W.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  ftn  ap  D.  &c. 

83  D.  ap  ftn  ap  D.  ap  Sn  ap  mad:  voel  &c. 
Hn  ap  D.  ap  yerth  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  gr:  &c. 
Morgant  ap  1).  ap  rrys  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  Uwyd  &c. 

84  Jal :  Hn  vychan  ap  jfolyn  ap  Jevaf  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Powys  IF. — Ho:  ap  Engn:  o  vochnart  ap  kyfnerth  &c. 
Traean — .9.  hrocs  Oswallt :  Edw:  a  J.  =  p.  Ho:  ap  Engn:  &c. 

85  D.  o  holbais  ap  ]f.  goch  ap  D.  ap  Jerth  &c. 

86  D.  ap  Engn:  ap  Mad:  koch  ap  D.  &c. 

U.  ap  Ywain  ap  jferth  ap  Hwva  Uwyd  &c. 

87  Tomas  ap  D.  ap  To:  ap  kynwric  Ac. 

Poieys  W.  ar  Traean :  D.  Uwyd  ap  Mer:  ap  Hn  &c. 

88  V  traean  .  Einon  vychan  ap  Edyn:  ap  Jerth  &c. 
D.   ap  gr:  ap  Engn:  ap  gim  lydan  &c. 
Nanhevdwy  :  p.  ftn  ap  addaf  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

89  ,,  J.  trevorf  /  Eisiart  /  gwenh'r  =  p.  Edw:  ap  D. 

90  „  Johon  EdwartJ  ap  Jerwart  ap  J.  ap  addaf  &c. 


■JMed  ?1517.  f  "  Diet!  M93.*'  J  "  Died  1498."— W.  W.  E,  Wynne. 


■       PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   129.  809 

9^  Kynllailh :  p.  Morvs  ap  f.  gethin  =  Ho:  /  R.  /  g.  D.  sae  &c;. 

94  „         p.  gr:  ap  edyii:  ap  jferth  =  Ho:  /  E.  /  a  Mored:  &o. 
„         R.  ap.  D.  ap  I'o:  ap  D.  ap.  Jin  &c. 

Abertanad :  J .  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gn  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

95  jMaelor  ^.— Rob:  ap  Eclw:  ap  Ho:  ap  ftn  &c- 

97  jfal  a  threvor:  D.  ap  ]f.  ap  Jer:  Escob  (E, .  Ehvy  1500-03)  &c. 
Gicyddelwern :  p.   Elisav*  ap  gr:   ap  Engn^tudyr  /  gr:  ll'd 
102  Pengwern  a  bostvn  :  Risiart  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  vychan  &c, 

105  Trevor:  Edwart  ap  Ho:  ap  Ha  ap  addaf  ap  ho:  &a. 

106  Maelor  /<.— p.  Hn  ap  Edyn:  ap  gr:  ap  ^er:  &c. 

^07         „  Edw:  ap  D.  Jankyn  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  &c. 

„  p.  D.  evtyn  z=  ^1^  Rob:  /  gr:  /  J.  <tc. 

,,  Edw:  ap   Ho:  ap  Hn  ap  ^'er:  ap  gr:  &c. 

108  ^  „  D.  ap  ftn  ap  edyn:  ILwyd  ap  ]fer:  vychao  &c. 
Yr  hob :  p.  Morus  'Jwngk  ap  yankyu  ap  ^er:  &c, 

„         Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Mer:  ap  gr:  ap  ftn  &c. 

109  Mad:  ap  ]f.  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  f.  goch  ap  Jer:  &c. 
Ystradalvn:  D.  llwyd  ap  pleddyn  ap  gr:  &c. 

110  „  Niglas  ap  deigws  ap  gronw  ap  gr:  &c. 

111  n  Grr:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  kadwgan  &e. 

„  ]fthel  wyn  ap  nigolas  ap  gwyn  &e. 

112  Terj'l .-  ssyr  Ho:  /  Jankyn  decaf  /  ]fthel  anwyl=p.  dai  ap  fthel 

114  „       To:  argl:  abad  Diuas  basing  ap  I),  pennant  &c. 

115  „       Mred:  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  Maelawr  &c. 

„       Ho:  ap  tudyr  ap  jthel  vychan  ap  'Jthel  llwyd 
„       p.  jfthel  vychan  —  jfthel  bersou  IL .  evrgain   |   D.  per- 
son kilgain  /  a  Hn  person  ChwitfEordd 

116  rrys  ap  kynwric  ap  rrobert  ap  pleddyn  &c. 

Mon :  Mastyr  /  W.f  ap  W.  vychan  ap  Glm  ap  gr:  Ac. 

1 17  „  Meistyr  Hvw  Morgan  ap  Mered:  ap  D.  ap  R.  &c. 

118  „  p.  Hn  ap  Hwlgyn  ap  ho:  ap  Jerth  ddv  &c. 
»  ?•  ^P  gioi  ap  7thel  vychan  ap  Mad:  &c. 

119  „  D.  ap  glm  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  kynwric  &c. 
„  Ho:  ap  }in  ap  ho:  ap  ]fer:  ddv  ap  Jer:  &c. 

120  „  Tudyr  ap  D.  ap  rrobert  ap  D.  ap  rrys  &c. 

„       Ho:  ap  rrys  ap  Hu  ap  D.  ap  J.  wyddel  ap  Mred:  ddv  &c. 
„      Jthel  ap  Ho:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  Jeuan  Wyddel  &c. 

121  Merionydd:  D.  ap  Mevric  vychan  ap  ho:  sselyf  &c. 
Jal:  D.  llwyd  ap  Tudyr  ap  ^eu:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  Ac. 

123  Mon :  Mred:  ap  tomas  ap  Mred:  ap  kynwric  ap  Mred:  ddv  &c. 

124  „       O.  ap  tudyi-  vychan  ap  gtm  ap  gr:  ap  gtm  &c. 

126  „       J.  ap  glm  ap  Jthel  vychan  ap  Mad:  &c. 

127  „       Glm  ap  Kn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 
Arllechivedd  vcltaf:  W.  ap  gr:  ap  rrobin  ap  gr:  ap  gtm  &c. 
swydd  inbych  :  p.  gr:  v'n  ap  gr:  ap  D.  goch  =  Ho:  kcedmor  &c. 

128  „  J,  p.  J,  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  gronw  =  gr:  vychan  /  R.  &c. 

129  „  „  p.  ac  wyrou  Ho:  koetmor  =  Johon  /  Meviic  &c. 

130  „  „  p.  ac  wyron  rrys  gethin  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  &c. 

131  „  „  p.  ac  wyron  gr:  leia=  J.  /  yngharad  &c. 
Jal :  p.  J,  ap  ftn  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  Mred:  &c. 

*  "  Died  1489,"— W.  W.  E.  Wynne. 

t  "  The  MS.  -was  doubtless  written  before  Mich"  23  Henrj  vii  as  in  that  year 
Master  W.;ap  W.  Vychan  was  appointed  chamberlain  of  N.  Wales,  and  in  this 
MS.  he  is  merely  styled  as  above  without  any  notice  of  his  being  then  chamberlain. 
He  was  alio  knighted," — W.  W.  E.  Wynne. 

y  98430.  K  K 


810  PENiAETH  MANUSCKIPTS   129-130. 

132  F^i/nwni :  Tomas  o  salbri  ai  vrochjr  Hai-i  /  J.  /  Rob:/  ai 
chmortjdd  elsbctli  g.  PIvvv  konwy/  sioned  /  kwiisliins  /  a 
clii\lrii;g 

134  Gr:  ap  ^.  goch  ap  ').  ap  Mad:  a  biiodes  m}   pleddyn  ap 
5fthel  llwyd  &c. 

The  pages  following  belong  to  Pen.  MS.  138=Hen.  MS.  HI. 
141-51  John  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ^thel  vyohan  &c. 


MS.  130  =  I-Ien.  124.  Genealogy :  Paper;  about  7|xo|  inches  ; 
152  pages — margins  slightly  injured  and  last  leaf  imperfect;  wanting 
beginning  and  end;  first  half  of  the  xvith  century;  bound  in  pig-skiu 
on  which  the  original  elegantly  stamped  cover  is  glued. 

1  p.  Ywain  gwynedd  =  ^er:  drwyndwn  (p.  9)  /  maelgwn  &c. 

2  &  11  p.  kydwaladr  ap  gr:  ap  kynan  =:  Icadvan  &c. 

4  Meion  tri  lie  y  delyd  arglwyddieth  wynedd  o  gogel  vn.  .  .  vv 
ystradwel  V3    gadvan  .  .  .  y  trydydd  He  vv  esyllt  v}  gynan 
p.  gr:  Maelor  =  Mred:  /  Ywain  &c. 
7  p.  ac  wyron  liodri  mawr^merfryn/  mevrig  &c.  See  MS.  129  p.  23. 
11  yr  argl:  rrys  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  ap  tewdwr  &c. 

p.  kvnedda  wyledic  i  vab  hynnaf  a  (fv)  varw  kyn  dyvod  i 
dad  ai  vrodyr  or  gogledd  i  wynedd  ymynyddev  gododvn  |  y  bv  varw 
meirion  meirionydd  &c.  ^See  MS.  129,  p.  22. 

13  Ely  Stan  glodrudd  ap  kyhelyn  ap  ivor  &c. 

14  Hari  viii  ap  Hari  seived  &c. 

16  Ywain  brogvntvn  ap  madoc  &c. 

24  D.  ap  mevric  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  selyf  ap  mevric  llwyd  &c. 
30  p.  D.  [ap]  I'thel  vychan  ap  kynwrig  &c. 
32  To  :  yr  argl.  Abad  ap  D.  penant  &c. 
36  Nikolas  ap  deikws  ap  gronw  ap  gr:  krach  &c. 
Gr:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  kadwgon  ap  Jer:  &c. 

38  p.  Gr:  vychan  ap  D.  goch  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 

p.  ^.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  gronw  o  varged  V5  Gr:  v'n  &c. 

39  p.  ][euan  llwyd  a  wenhwyvar  V5  vevrig  llwyd  =  mali  &c. 
p.  ac  wyion  Ho-  koedmor  =  rys  /  ^.  /  egon  [=  einon]  &c. 

40  tudyr  ap  Ha  vychan  ap  lollyn  ap  jfeuaf  &c. 

p.  ac  wyron  rys  gethiu  ap  gr:  ap  D.  goch  =  ho:  &c. 

41  p.  gr:  leia  a  "Jeuan  ag  yngharad  &c. 

42  p.  robyn  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  madoc  &c. 

46  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  ap  ho:  ap  ^er:  ddv  &c. 

47  Maelor  kymraee :  Ho:  ap  gronw  ap  J.  ap  gronw  &c. 
49  Wiliam  evtvn  ap  J.  ap  siarays  ap  mad:  &c. 

51  John  ap  Elis  evtvn  ap  J.  evtvn  a  D.  ac  olis  a  gweuhwyfar 
gwraig  John  Edwart  &c.  See  MS.  129,  p.  90. 

53  John  o  pyleston  ap.  J.  ap  Madoc  ap  Robert  Ric:  |  syr 
Roeser  pyleston  Cf.  p.  68  infra. 

56  Wiliam  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D,  &c. 

58  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  goch  &c. 

59  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  rys  ap  gr:  ap  mad:  llwyd  &c. 

60  D.  ap  Jtn  ap  D.  ap  ftn  ap  mad:  voel  &c. 

Hn  ap  D.  ap  jfer:  ap  madog  ddv  ap  gr:  ap  Jet:  &c. 
63  D.  ap  ftn  ^P  edn:  llwyd  ap  fer:  vychan  &c. 
Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Jer  v'n  (fee- 


PENIABTH  MANUSCRIPT   130.  811 

C3  D.  goch  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &c. 

64  D.  llwyd  ap  tudyr  ap  J.  ap  ftn  ap  gr:  Uwyd  &c. 

66  syr  to:*  hanmer  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  fankyn  &c. 

68  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  Ric  ap  syr  Rob:  o  puloston.  f 

71  To:  domoke  ap  J.  ap   D.  domoke  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  etc. 

72  Robert  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  badi  ap  D.  gocli  &c. 

73  p.  ac  wyron    yr    argl:  Ryg    ap  gr:  =  gr:  arg:  Aber  teivi    a 

cheredigion  &e Yiigharad  oedd  V3  syr  morgan 

ap  mred:  ap  gr:  ap  yr  arg:  Rys  o  grisli 
hawdd  vyd   wawu  wryd  wen  eirian   yughaei-  yagharad  v)  vorgau 
Haw  rvddaur  llowrodd  avian  llwyr  orav  merch  Uiwr  uiia  man  &c. 

80  Kynvyn  ap  gwrystan  ap  gwaithvoed  a  briodes  yngharad  V5 

Ywaiu  ap  Ho'l  dda  &c. 

81  Rhandiroccld  Gr:  Maelor  ac  Twain 

82  Mad:  ap  Qr:  Maelor  a  seliodd  mynachlog  Lan  egwystyl  1200 

&c.  iddo  i  bv  4  mab  =  gr:  argl:  Dinas  bran  &c. 
85  Ywain  arglwydd  ffli/n  dowrdwy  &c. 
'  88  Rhyvel  Hawis  ai  hewytbrydd  &c.     M.c.ii] 

92  Arthur  ap  vthyr  bon  dragwn  &c. 

93  Gwlielyth  morgantog :  Morgan  ap  kriadog  ap  ^estin  &c, 
G.  Gwent :  Morgan  ap  ho']  ap  f  er:  ap  ywain  &c. 

G.  Dyved :  Ywain  ap  elen  V5  lowarch  ap  hyveudd  &c. 

94  G.  Gegidva  ym  hoioys :  gwyn  ap  gr:  ap  beli  ap  selcf  &c. 
G.  Penllyn :  Meirion  ap  llenwev  ap  koed  ap  douned  &c, 
G.  Meirionydd :  kynan  ap  brochwel  ap  edn:  &c. 

95  G.  ardudwy :  Bleiddud  ap  kyradawg  ap  senanawl  &c. 
G.  Ros :  ho:  varf  vehinog  ap  karadoc  ap  Meirion  &c. 

G.  dogveiling  ynyffryn  h. — Kowryd  ap  elayth  ap  elgud  &c, 
llwyth  kiliin — meib  vchelwyr ;  Hwfa  ap  kynddelw  &e. 

96  &  97  a.  kiliin  ymortvn .   sandde  hardd  ap  kyriadoc  &c. 
G,  D.  klwyd:  kowryd  ap  kavan  ap  alawo  wr  ap  idic  &c. 

Hjyma  gyvri  talm  0  ivehelaethav  y  mars :  tudur  trefor  &c. 

97  Uwyth  trevor  'Jyvaf  ap  addaf  ap  awr  ap  'Jyvaf  &c. 
Z?.  nanhevdwy :  Jer:  voel  ap  Jer:  vychan  &c. 

tt  maelor  G. — kynvric  ap  rrvwallon  ap  drugadyr  &c, 
U.  trefalvn :  Hvnvdd  ap  gwenllian  V5  Rys  &c. 

98  tt.  evtun  a  sonlli  ac  erlis :  elidir  ap  R.  sais  &c. 

a.  dudyslon  yny  traian :  ]fddon  ap  Rys  sais  ap  Uowarch  &c, 
it.  y  drewen :  syr  W.  pevyr  ap  gronw  ap  tudur  ap  R.  sais 
it.  devddwr  a  mechain  :  syr  Roeser  powys  ap  gronw  &c. 
prenhinllwyth  powys  W. —  p.  gr:  ap  gwainhwynwyn  &c. 

99  G.  kae  ho:  a  chrevddvn  :  Jer:  goch  ap  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
G.  y  deirnion  a  dinmel :  p.  ywain  brogeintvn  ap  Mad:  &c. 
G.  nannav :  p.  kydwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  kynfyn  &c. 

G.  kynllaith :  enion  evell  ap  Madoc  ap  Mred:  &c. 
100  G.  tegengl:  Edwin  ap  gronw  ap  ywain  ap  ho:  dda  &c. 

Tegengl :  Edynowain  bendew  ap  kynan  viniad  ap  gwethfoed 
gwerydr  kyriadoc  ap  lies  Haw  ddiawc  &c. 
Then  follow  the  mothers  {and  mothers'  mothers)  of  Gr:  Evtvn,  Gr: 
0  hanmer,  Rys  )evangk  ap  R.  Mechell,  yr  arg:  Rys  (101),  Gr:  ap  Rys 
ay  tewdwr,  ?  ]ankynn  (102),  Gr:  ap  tin  (103),  syr  D.  Hanmer,  D.  Evtvn 
(104),  ^.  ap'Mred:  /  Mred:  ap  gr:  ap  Hn,  Gr:  ap  Hn  (107),  Rys  ap  Robert 
(108),  Gr:  ap  kynan,  kynan  ap  ^ago  (109),  Rob:  ap  gr:  /  Gr:  apho'l,  ho: 
ap  Gr:  (110),  enion  ap   gwalchmai  (HI),   Gwrgenav,   Gwalchmai  ap 

*  "  Died  10  Feb   1545."  t  "  The  two  Roger  Pulestons  are  called  Robert. 

Robert  died  1477."— W.  W,  E.  W.     Cf.  p.  53  supra. 

K   K   2 


812  psniarth  manusceipts  130-131, 

Mcilir  (112),  Gnap  edn:  vyclian,  Edn:  vychan,  ftn  ap  edn:  (113),  D.  ap 
gu'cuwyn[\vyn]  (114),  O.  kyvoiliog,  Gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  hleddyn  (115), 
Mrcd:  ap  lilcddyr,  Illeddyn  np  kynvyn,  Edn:  ap  gr:  (IIG),  Madog  ap 
Hn,  Mad:  ap  gr:  Maelor  (117),  Grr:  Maelor  (118),  Jenap  egn:  gocli, 
kynvrig  evell,  ph.  ap  Madog  (119),  ^evaf  ap  Madoc,  Madoc  ap  ^evaf 
(120),  Mred:  ap  Hn  ddv,  Hn  ddv  (121),  morgan  ap  'ifer:/Rob:  ap  Joha 
(122),  Ric:  ap  Madog,  Mad:  ap  ftn,  Morys  jwug  (123),  Lewys  ()wng), 
fer:  goch  (124),  J.  trevor  (died  1493)  a  Risiart,  Hn  ap  Twain  (125), 
Edw:  ap  D.  /  D.  ap  Edn:  gam  ( 1 26),  Edn:  gam,  John  edwart  ap  f.  (died 
1498),  )er:  ap  J.  (127),  J.  ap  Adda  ap^er:  ddv,  Hn  ap  y  wain  (128),  Edn: 
ap  tudur,  tudur  ap  gronw,  gronw  up  tudur,  gronw  ap  edn:  (129),  Edn: 
vychan,  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  o  abertanad  (130),  D.  llwyd,  Mad:  ap  Mred: 
(131),  D.  ap  ho: /Morys  ap  ^. /Mad:  kyffin  (132),  Mred:  vychan, 
Madog  ap  ^evaf.  Ho:  a  R.  a  Mred  meib  gr:  ap  edn:  /  Grr:  ap  Edn:  (133), 
Edn:  ap  fer:  goch,  Gr:  ap  Jer:  (134),  Jev.  goch,  Madog  koch  (136). 

137  A  brief  chronicle :  K/yma  beth  o  storia  meibion  idwal  : 
blwyddyn   o  waith  meibion  idwal  oni  v  varw  ywain   ap  howel     xxiv 

o  varw  ywain  a  thra  wladychodd  kvva  i  vab vj    blynedd  o 

auarwy  hyd  pan  aeth  ho:  ap  kadell  i  rv/ain  i  deilyngv  kreiriav  xix 
blynedd  or  pan  aeth  ho:  i  rvfain  oni  bv  varw     xix  or  pan  vv  varw  howel 

hyd  waith  karnaw ends :  er  pan  ddoeth  kred  gyntaf  gan  eletheris 

bab  yni  ddoeth  gr:  yngwystyl  a  1040  or  pan  ddoeth  y  saeson  gyntaf 
ir  ynnys  hon  yni  ddoeth  gr:  yngwystyl  552  exblesit  uales. 

144  ILyma  jach  mathe  ap  D.  ap  edw:  ap  ho'l  &c. 


MS.  131  =  Hen.  MSS.  113  and  414.  An  important  collection  of 
Pedigrees  said  to  be  compiled  by  Quttyn  Owen  and  Jeuan  Brechva. 
Paper  ;  about  8^  X  6  inches  ;  xv  and  xvith  centuries  ;  308  pages  in 
many  hands;  repaired;  half  bound  in  morocco. 

Hand  A  (pp.  71-138)  seems  from  internal  evidence  to  telong  to  the  middle  of 
the  second  half  of  the  xvth  century.     This  part  is  attributed  to  Gutti/n  Owen. 

Hand  B  (pp.  199-308)  has  the  appearance  of  an  autograph  MS.  begun  at  the 
close  of  the  xvth  century  (p.  255),  and  continued  during  part  at  least  of  the  reign 
of  Henry  viii.  (p.  243).  This  part  is  said  to  be  the  compilation  of  Jeuan  Brechva  ; 
but  can  such  orthography  he  that  of  a  native  of  South  Wales  ? 

Hand  C  (pp.  13-68)  is  in  two  inks,  if  not  in  two  styles,  but  it  seems  to  he  from 
the  same  pen.  In  the  list  of  English  kings,  on  page  51,  the  duration  of  each  reign 
is  given  except  that  of  Henry  viii.,  which  was  inserted  by  a  later  hand.  This  fixes 
the  date. 

Hand  D  (pp.  139-53)  is  a  transcript  of  some  other  MS.  and  was  written  before 
1574  (p.  154). 

There  are  other  hands.  Pages  1-12,159-73,175-76,193-97,212,  301,  are  in 
the  autograph  of  William  LI^;  pages  155-58  and  174  are  in  the  hand  of  Simwnt 
Vychan  ;  pages  177-88  and  271  are  from  the  pen  of  Robert  Vaughan.  There  are 
besides  marginal  entries  here  and  there  in  various  hands. 

13  Bonedd  xv  Jlivyth  gwynedd  ai  keinkev :  Einion  ap  G  walchmai 

ap  Meilir   ap  Mabon  ap  jarddvr  &c ends:  jarddvr 

ap  diwric  ap  bledres  ap  Merwydd  ap  tangno. 

24  {Henioev  inerchet  Gron:  llwyt  ap  penwyn  Sj-c) 

25  Bonedd  givehelaethe  kymrv 

Dehevbarth :  Res  a  gr:  ap  Res  ap  tewdwr  &c. 
gwerthrynion  ;  kadwallon  ap  Mad:  ap  fer:  &c. 
Fowys:  Gr:  maelawr  ap  Mad:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
2(5   Yrioystli  :  Ho:  ap  f eyva  ap  ywain 

27  Nanav :  Meibion  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  =  Mat!:  a  gr:  a  Ho:  &c. 

28  Morganwc :  Morgaiit  ap  kyriadawc  ap  Jestiii  &c. 


PJENlAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   131.  813 

29  Gadelling  :  Gwyn  ap  gr:  ap  beli  ap  seleff  &c. 

30  Penlli/n  :  Meiriawn  ap  Ilenoddev  ap  Eoyd  up  danet  &c. 
Meirionydd :  kynan  ap  broclivaylan  ap  Edynvaedd  &c. 
ardvdwy  :  Bleiddvd  ap  kyriadoc  ap  )ovanawl  &c. 

Ros :  Ho:  vnryf  vehinawc  ap  kyriadawc  &c. 

31  Dogveilin  :  kenwric  ap  alaeth  ap  ovlvt  las  &c. 

b.  Pijlant  kvnedda  ivledic  :  Tybiawn,  Meiriawn  &c. 

32  „        Ywain  ffwynedd :  "jOT  a  Maelgwn  a  gvienWhu  &c. 
38        „       (/ydwaladi/r  vendigait :  chwaer  \  hiimdn  ap  pyt. 
40  Bonedd  tioyssogion  hyrnrv :  Ha  ap  J&r:  ap  ywain  &c. 

43  (meibion  ydynyvct  vychan  :  T'ydr,  Res  &c.) 

44  Jach  Lowell  koetmor  ap  gr:  vychan  &c. 

45  Jache  GWrR  Maelor  gtmyraec — iach  dd:  Eyton,  liy=, 
Mad:  /  Morgan,  llevkv,  Gwenliwyffar,  katrin,  ac  Eva  plant  Bn  ap  Edyn: 
ap  Gr:  ap  ]fer:  &c. 

47  Ho:  ap  feu:  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

48  John  ap  Elis  evtvn  ap  John  Eyton  ap  siamys  &c. 

b.  Robt:  ap  Edwart  ap  Ho:  ap  Hd  ap  ]fer:  &c. 

c.  syr  Rys  ap  Rys  vychan  ap  gron:  ap  Tudr  &c. 

d.  Edw:  ap  Morgant  ap  dd:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

49  meibion  John  ap  O.  ap  Tudr  Vychan:  Wm:  /  Owiiin,  lowy.s&c. 

50  dechyre  dyn  tra  syu  trais  ovydd  &o. 

6.  Pvm  achos  yssydd  i  vrddassv  merch  ymyluen  mah  yii  gyn(a 
Merch  a  wnaethbwyt  o  vewn  paradwys  &c. 

c.  Ne3t  vj  gi:  ap  Adda  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

d.  John  Ihvyl  ab;it  glyu  egwestyl  ap  dd:  llwyt 

51  List  of  English  kings  from  VVm:  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  viii.  &c. 

52  Jal :  Tudr  ap  gr:  ap  Res  ap  Edyn:  &c. 

„       Gr:  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  vychan 

Tegaingyl :  Tho'  ap  Res  ap  gr:  ap  ttn  ap  gr:  benvras  &c. 

„  Ho:  ap  Gr:  llwyt  ap  Mred:  ap  Res  ap  Hn  &c. 

„  fthel  ap  Jeu:  Vychan  ap  ]f.  ap  Jolyn  &c. 

„  The'  ap  Edwart  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

„  Res  ap  Elis  ap  Res  ap  gr:  benvyras  &c. 

„  Tomas  ap  Rys  meibion  mwyndec  ap  bel  &c. 

„  Gr:  ap  ]f.  Sn  vychan  ap  jfeuan  &c. 

53  „  Mad:  ddv  ap  Rirrit  ap  ftn  ap  Owain  &c. 

„  elis  John  a  thomas  meibion  Harri  ap  ken:  &c, 

swydd  ddinbyeh :  jfeu:  ap  Mad:  ap  Res  ap  Jthel  &c. 

54  Yr  hob  :  Johon  ap  Mad:  ap  jfeuau  ap  Mad:  &c. 

„         Ric:  fwug  ap  Morys  ^vvng  ap  lankyn  &c.     also  p.  143. 
ymaelor  gymraec :  dd:  ap  ho:  ap  'Jeuan  ap  gr:  &c. 

Rob:  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  feva  i.\;c. 
Tegaingyl — iache  gioyr  ysydd  ynoes  y  brenin  harri  vi.j 

55  &  149  Abat  dinas  bassing— Thomas  penant  ap  D.  P.  &c. 

56  &  149  syr  hwel  ap  y  dai  ap  'Jethel  ap  ken:  &c. 

Dd:   ap   7thel  ap  Cona  ap  'Jtbel  ap  ken:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
Dd:  ap  bel  ap  tvtvr  ap  adda  goch  &c. 

57  sir  VON — cymwt  talybolion :  761130  ap  Dd:  ap  Mad:  ap  dd:  &c. 

„         Ho:  Res  a  Hn  meib  feu:  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  Ho:  &c. 
„         Wm:  ap  gr:  ap  Res  ap  Mad: 
„  '      ttn  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  dd:  &c. 
Uicydiarth:  Res,  Wm:  /  dd:  llwyt=meibion  D.  ap  Gtm  ap  'j.  &c. 

58  D.  hylwyt :  Dd;  f al  ap  tudr  ap  Hn  vychan  &c. 

„  Gr:  ap  John  ap  Mad:  ap  syr  fthel  ap  gron:  &c. 

kowryt :  Wm:  /  O.  /  lewys  &c.  meib  J.  ap  O.  ap  tudr  vychan  &c. 
y  lleghwedd  vchaff:  jfach  syr  W.  ap  syr  W,  ap  W.  ap  gtm  &c. 


8l4  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   ISll. 

59  Tri  lie  y  daliwyt  arglwyddieth  Wynedd  ar  gogail :  Vn  vrff 
ystrawavl  v3  gadvaii  ap  Evda  &o.  —Cf.  MS.  130,  p.  4. 

b.  Gwladvs  v3  syr  dd:  gam  a  briodes  syr  Rogier  vyclian  &c. 

c.  meib  Gr:  Vyehan  ap  gr:  ap  dd:  goch,  a  meib  Hwel  koetmor 

60  ^ach  Harri  viii  ap  harri  ap  "Jemwrit  &c. 

64  &  74  }acli  Ai-Uivr  ap  vthvr  bendragon  &c. 

65  Elen  getbin  vercli  gydwgan  ap  dd:  &c. 

h.  Mam  gv.  vycbati  o  gayo  oedd  V5  syr  gr:  llwyt  o  Wynedd  &c. 

66  sivydd  Dinbych — Mred:  ap  J.  ap  Ees  llwyt  &c. 
b.  hyrenydd  krist  ai  geraint 

67  )acb  John  ap  Dd:  holant  ap  gr:  ap  D.  holant  &c. 
b.  Dd:  anwyl  a  Jeuan  ap  Res  ap  gr:  llwyt  &c. 

68  Nan  konwy    Mred:  ap  ]feuan  ap  Rob:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

„         „  Res  wyn  ap  dd:  ap  jfankyn  ap  D.  ap  cracU  &c. 

ILaw  Cruttyn  Owain. 

71  Tudyr  ap  yvvaia  vyclian  ap  ywain  hen  ap  gr:  ap  ywain  ap 
bleddyn  and  his  descendants. 

72  kyff  kymwd  edcirtiion  : — gr:  a  ^er:  plant  ywain  brogvntvn 

73  gwraic  leionel  oedd  elisabeth  V3  Wiliam  bwrch  jarll  wlster  &c. 

b.  John  ap  egn:  ap  yolyii  ap  ]fer:  ap  Hn  &c. 

c.  Jeuan  ap  y  kethin  ap  Mad:  ap  Jer:  ap  dd:  &c. 

74  jfewryd  ap  kynyr  o  gaer  gawch  y  mynydd 

b.  Robyti  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  gronwy  ap  heilin  &c. 

77  Beli  mawr  ap  Mynogan  ap  pabo  ap  arth  avael  &c. 

h.  Mam  wenwynwyn  ap  O.  kyvcilioc  =  gwenllian  V3  O.  Gwynedd  Sec. 

c.  Ednywain  bendew  ap  kynon  ap  gwrydyr  &c. 

d.  Meilir  ap  hu  ap  llowarch  goch  &c. 

78  D.  goch  ap  ho:  ap  Jeuan  ap  ttn  &c. 

b.  D.  llwyd  ap  Tudyr  ap  Jeu:  ap  Vin  &c. 

79  TLymay  brif  Jack  0  baladr  yn  myned  hyd  addaf  0  vrcnhin- 
llieyth  ialaith  aberjf'ro  yng  wynedd.  Then  follow  the  pedigrcRS  of 
IL'n  ap  Jerweith,  Rodri  mawr,  Gr:  ap  kynan,  Ywain  gwynedd,  Gr:  ap 
iin,  Gr;  ap  Ehys  tewdwi'  &  Ywain  ap  tomas  ap  rrodri  ap  gr:  ap  Itn 
ap  ^er:  drwyndwn. 

81  Talaith  ddinevwr :  Kadell  ap  rrodri,  Ho:  dda,  Rys  Vyehan  ap 
rrys  gryc,  Rys  ap  Mred:  &  Maelgwn  v'n  ap  maelgwn  ap  yr  arg:  R.  &c. 

82  Jach  vathravcd — tywysogion  pywys :  Bleddyn  ap  kynvyn,  his 
ancestors  and  descendants. 

83  Gwehelyth  Pyioys:  Gwenwyn[wyn]  ap  Ywain  kyveilioc  &c. 
b.  Gr:  Maelor  ac  ywain  vyehan  ac  elisef  plant  mad:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

d.  Ednywain  benndew  ap  niniad  &c. 

e.  Gioehelyth  edernion  :  Ywain  bro  gvntvn  ap  Madoc 

/.   G.  kynllaith  :  kj'nwric  ac  egn:  meib  Mad  ap  Mred:  &c. 
g.  „  kadvfgan  ap  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  &c. 

84  G.  y  mars  :  Tudur  trevor  ap  membyr  ap  kavroch  &c. 

b.  G.  maelawr :  kyn:  ap  rriwallon  ap  dyngad  &c. 

c.  G:  nanhevdioy  :  )er:  voel  ap  )er:  vyehan  &c. 

d.  G.  arwystli :  Gollwyn  ap  ednywain  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

e.  Ho:  ap  ^euaf  ap  Ywain  ap  trehaiarn 

85  VJi  or  xr  llwyth  :  Einnvdd  ap  gwenllian  V3  Rys  ap  marchan  &c. 
b    G.  bortvn  :  Sanddef  hardd  o  vortvn  ap  karadoc  hardd  &c. 

c.  3fon ;  Hwva  ap  kynddelw  ap  kwnws  &c. 

86  Maredudd  ap  rrotpert  ap  llowarch  ap  trehaiarn  &c. 

b.  Kadwallon  ap  mad:  ap  kadwgon  &c. 

c.  Meredudd  (?  ap  Ho)  ap  mred:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

d.  Gioehelyth  Morganicc :  Morg:ui  ap  karadawc  ap  jfestin  &c, 

e.  Gr;  ap  jvor  ap  mevric  vyclinu  ,  .  ,  0  sainheydd 


tLAW  GUTTYN  OWEN  816 

87  G.  Gwent :  Morgan  ap  ho:  ap  ]fer:  aj)  ywiiin  ap  gr:  &c. 

TLyma  y  rrai  a  vv  o  arthur  hyd  vaelywn 
h.   G.  kegidva :  Gwynn  ap  gr:  ap  beli  ap  selyf  &c. 

c.  edn:  ap  morien  (vel  ma^en)  ap  kadgwr  &c. 

d.  Eikart  ap  mred:  ap  rryddercli  ap  bletri  &c. 

88  G.  Itaredigion :  Kynan  ap  brochwain  ap  edn:  merionydd  &c. 
b.   G.  ardudwy  :  Bleiddiad  ap  karadoc  ap  gwniawl  &c. 

f.  G.  d.  klwyd :  Kowryd  ap  elaetli  ap  elgud  glas  &c. 

d.  G.  rros :  Hy wel  varyf  vehinoe  ap  karadawc  &c. 

e.  kowryd  ap  kadvan  ap  alaoc  wr  ap  Jddic  &c. 

/.  llivi/t/i  aelan :  Jarddur  ap  mor  ap  tegeri  ap  aelan  &c. 

g.  Givynedd :  Einion  ap  gwalchmai  ap  meilir  &c. 

89  Gronwy  ap  gwion  ap  rrys  goch  ap  sanddef  &c. 
b.  kadwallon  ap  madoc  ap  Jdnertli  ap  kadwgau  &c. 

90  G.  ardudwy :  Q-oUwyn  ap  tangno  ap  kadvael  &c.  plant  yr 

gollwyn  hwnn  =  Merwydd,  eginir,  gellan,  ag  edn:  &c. 

b.  Qwyr  plwyf  bedd  kelert  a  ddon  o  gwynn  ap  eginir  &c. 

c.  vcbelwyr  gwinionydd  a  ddon  o  D.  ap  kadwgon  ap  genillir  &c. 

d.  gwyr  ardudwy  a  ddon  o  'Jarddur  np  diwryc  ap  bletriis  &c. 

91  G.  Pcnllyn  :  Riiid  vlaidd  o  benllyu  ap  gwrgcnav  &c. 

b.  gicehelydd  gwynedd :  Meibion  llywarcb  ap  pian  ap  dinawcl  &c. 

92  Ednyved  vyeliann  ap  kynwric  ap  ^er:  &c. 

b.  ]farddur  ap  trehaiarn  aj)  bod  ap  kysgenn  &c. 

c,  ]feuan  ap  egn:  ap  gr:  ap  lio:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

Weithian  Jr  yshyssivn  am  JacMv  Jeuaingk  y  rrai  y  sydd  yn  yr 
oes  honn  o  gwbl  or  ddwy  ivynedd 

93  Wm:  vychan  ap  gtm  ap  gr:  ap  gtm 

94  Robert  ap  jeuan  vychan  ap  mad:  ap  ho:  &c. 

95  Plant  'Jeuan  Hwyd  ap  gr:  ap  gron:  ap  ho:  &c. 
b.  Plant  sion  ap  rrys  ap  ho:  koetmor  &c. 

96  llyyn:  Plant  (1)  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  mred:   ap  syr   Ho:  y   vwyall 

(2)  syr  ho:  egn:  ap  syr  ho:  (3)  ^euan  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c.. 

98  Nannav:  Plant  mevric  llwyd  ap  mevric  vychan  &c,  =  Mo:  selyf, 

gr:  derwas,  a  gwenhwyvar  &  their  descendants. 

99  kymwd  keinmeirch  :  gr:  ap  Jeu:  ap  dd:  ap  Mred:  ap  Jer:    &c. 

100  tt.  h.  llmon:  plant  H\wa  ap  kynddelw='Jer:  ap  hii  bledrus  &c. 
b.  ]feu:  ap  gim  ap  jfthel  vychan  ap  Mad:  &c. 

101  Y  meistr  Huw  morgan  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  rrys  &c. 

102  plant  Jeuan  ap  gr:  ap  Mad  ap  ririd  &c. 

b.  Johon  hanmer   ai    vrodyr  edwart  a    Richiart    meibion  Jankya 
hanmer  ap  syr  Dd:  ap  ffylib  &c. 

104  Y  maesir  siambrjen  gwiliam  vychan  ap  gim  ap  gr:  &c. 
b.  Jeuan  llwyd  ap  dd:  vychan  ap  D.  ap  Jthel  &c. 

105  Kyn:  ap  Mred:  ddv  ap  gron:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

106  dd:  a  gr:  plant  rrys  ap  Jeu:  ap  9d  ddv  &c. 

107  Ion  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  ho:  ap  tudur  &c. 

b.  Dd:  holbais  ap  Jeu:  goch  ap  dd:  ap  Jer:  &c. 

108  Henimv  gwledydd  (1)  y  dwyrain,  (2)  y  dehav,  (3)  y  goi-Uewin, 

(4)  y  gogledd.         America  is  not  mentioned, 
b.  kaer  dorobren  =  k.  gaint,  k.  garadawc  =  salsbri 

109  gwehelyth  gwerlhrynnion :  Kadwallon  ap  mad:  ap  Jer:  &o. 

b.  llwyth  kellin  :  Huva  ap  kynddelw  ap  kwnws  ap  killyn 

c.  Arthen  ac  Jddon  brodyr  vnvam  sanddef  &c. 

d.  Gron:  ap  morgant  ap  Jdgwyn  ap  egn:  &c. 

e.  Meilir  ap  Huva  ap  llowarch  goch  &c. 

110  Bleddyn  ap  evream  ap  Jthel  ap  drahaiarn 
6.  Brenhiaul  ap  treliaiarn  ap  magloc  dda  &c. 


816  PENIARTH  MASrUSCRIPT  131. 

c.  O.  ac  edu:  meib  kadrod  ap  'Jevaf  &c. 

c.  Pedwar  maib  rrys  gocli  ap  sanddef  &c.  =  gwion,  gron:  Ac. 

d.  Pedv/ar  tnab  'Jardur  ap  mor  =  betrus  &c. 

d.  rrys  a    meilir  a  thegwared  meib:  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

111  Merched  brychan  :  Gwladus  .  .  .  Gwenvrewy  g^vraic  gadrod 
kalchvynydd  a  dieisiodd  tynnwedd  vagloc  yn  rrydav  tynwedd  /  Eleri 
gwraic  karedic  <fec. 

Santesav — merched  brychan:  Golev  yn  Han  hesgyn  yug  went  / 
Gwennddjdd  yn  hywyn  meirionnydd  .  .  .  Elived  jugorsebawl  I 
keindee  jngJiaer  godolaior  .  ,  .  Kenedlon  yn  y  mi/nydd  hymorth  .  . 
.  .  dwynwen  yn  II.  ddioyn  y  mon  &c. 

112  Tuir  gwraig  Vrychan  ;  (2)  Tair  gwelygordd  saint  Y.  B. 

c.  Plant  haw :  Dirmic,  Dilid  &c. 

d.  P.  kyndnvyn :  Eluan  py wys,  kynon,  Gwion  &c. 

113  P.  ywain  dirmic  :  kornenn,  kwnyn 

b.  P.  Egri  o  dalebolion  yn  ocs  vaelgwn  :  (Nvdd),  Eonyn  &c. 

114  P.  llywarch  hen.   Gwen,  Morudd  &c. 

b.  P.  Kynvarch  ap  meirchion :  JLew,  Aron,  vrien  &c. 

c.  P.  kenav  ap  koel  godeboc :  Padarn,  grwst,  garmon  &c. 

116  P.Jdno  ap  meirchion  ap  grwst:  Mevric  a  Mabon. 

b.  Helygawc  ac  elvedan  meib  ^'lon  hwylvawr  or  gogledd. 

c.  Elidir  rawyuvawr  ap  grwst  priodawr  &c. 

d.  Rydderch    hael    ac    ardderchrud    a    morgan    mwynvawr    meib 
Tudwal  tutclyd. 

e.  Gwyddien  astius  ac  ennael  meib  degr  ap  dyfnwal  hen 

/.  Plant  Don :  gwdion,  samson,  Maethon,  )dwal,  hvnawc,  evnydd, 
elestron  digant,  Glyvaethwy,  kynan,  hedd,  Dien,  Eioc,  Arianrrod 
g.  Plant  Mathonwy :  Hew  Haw  gyffes,  Dylan  ail  ton,  a  blodeuwedd 

Bellach  ir  henwn  brant  o  vrenhinllwyth  tywysogion  kymry. 
116,  37-8  &  142  rrodri  mawr  and  descendants 

117  &  140   Gr:  ap  kynan  „  „ 

120  &  141  Talaith  ddinevwr :  Plant  kadell  ap  rrodri  mawr  and 
Iheir  descendants 

121  Plant  Mervryn,  gwriad,  Gwydlid,  Mevric  a  Thudwal  meibion 
rrodri  mawr, 

122  Talaith  vathraval  ym  hyioys  a  ddigwyddodd  i  vieddyn  ap  k. 
drwy  yngharad  i  vam  V3  mred:  ap  ywain  ap  Ho:  dda  : — Bleddyn  ap 
kynvyn  and  his  descendants. 

123  JLyna  ni  gwedi  ddivyii  ysbysrwydd  or  tri  brenhin  llwi/th  at  hil 
beUacJi  i  dytcedtvn  am  ivelaethav  ai  plant  yn  twythav 

124  Plant  &c.  tndur  Irevor  ap  embjr=  lluddyka,  dyngad  a  gronwy 

b.  Ylmt  Ilys  sais  ap  edn:  ap  llywarch  gam=Tudyr  &c. 

c.  Plant  ycr:  voel  ap  Jer:  Vyehan  &c. 

125  Weithian  ir  ysbysswn  0  vonedd  Jeuaingk  sydd  ynyr  oes  honn  0 
vewn  y  ddwy  vaelor  a  swydd  y  wavn  a  smjdd  groes  oswallt  a  swydd  y 
drewen  ac  elysmer  ar  mars  oil 

Jon  hanmer  a^)  Jakyn  ap  syr  dd:  ap  ffylib  &c. 

126  Roesser  ap  ^on  ap  rrobert  ap  rrisiart  ap  syr  roeser  o  plystwn  &c. 
b.  IFylib  ap  madoc  ap  "jfeuaf  ap  ^er:  ap  mad:  &c. 

127  Gr:  ap  morgant  goch  ap  gr:  ap  ]fer:  voel  &c. 

128  Tomas  domoc  ap  feu:  ap  dd:  ap  mad:  &c. 

b.  Robert  a  sion  plant  rrissiart  ap  mad:  ap  Hn  &c. 

c.  Edw:  a  Ho:  a  Tho:  plant  Morgan  ap  fer:  ap  gr:  ddu  &c. 

129  "37  &  143  Morus  'jwngk  a  Lewys  meib  siankyn  ap  ]fer:  V'n  etc. 
J  30  Mador  gymraec :  Ho:  wp  gronwy  ap  ]feu:  ap  gronwy  &c, 

b.  >Tou  'evtvn  am  siainys  ap  mad  ap  jfeuan  &c. 
131  gressff'ordd:  I'auud  up  gr:  np  dd;  ap  Rp  (itc, 


LLAW  GUTTTN  OWEN,  ETC.  817 

132  Robya  ap  morgant  ap  Jer:  vychaii  &c. 

I.  ILywelyn  ap  dd:  ap  761':  ap  madoc  ddu  &c. 

133  Morgant  ap  dd:  ap  rrys  ap  gr:  ap  madoc  &c. 

134  Edwart  ap  dd:  ap  siankyn  ap  mad:  ap  dd:  &c. 

135  Swi/dd  elysmer  ■   Y  maestr  rccsor,  a  ffylib,  a  sialcyn,  a  Wilian.i 
meibion  gr:  o  kinast  ap  s/akyn  &c. 

136  Rissiart  o  watlai  ap  fliiib  &c. 

137  Ytraian:  Edw:  a  Jon   moib  bo:  ap  egn:  goch  Ac. 

138  Nanheudwij :  Jon  a  rrissiait  meib  Edw:  ap  dd:  &c. 
b.  Madoc  ad  Jolyu  ap  jf.  gelhin  ap  mad:  kyffin  &c. 


139  Plant  kijnvyn :  Bieddyu, Eiiwallou, gweryddjand  their  descendants 

140  Flant  madoc  ap  mred:  =  gr:  maelor  /  ywain  /  elissav/  a  raared 
(gwraig  ]fer:  drwyudwn)  and  tbeir  descendants 

141  Plant  gr:  ap  tin  ap  ^fer:  drwyndwn  &c. 

b.  „      Ricart  ap  kydwaladr  ap  gr:  kynan  &c. 

c.  „       Gr:  maelor  =  Mad:  /  mred:  /  ywain  &c. 

142  „      Jdtval    voel  =  'Jevaf  /  lago  /  mevric   &c.    and    tbeir 
descendants. 

14't   Yr  hob  :  Plant  gr:  llwyd  ap  gwynn  ap  gronw  &c.  &c. 
b.  Plant  gr:  ap  fta  ap  ynyr  =  Lewis  person  gresfibrdd  &c. 

145  ticrkelyn:  I).  /  gr:  /  tudr  /  meib  D.  ap  kyn:  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 
mon :  Plant  ho:  ap  tin  ap  ho:  =  R.  /  gr:  /  ^er:  &e. 

„      Jen;  aj)  gtm  vycban  ap  mad:  ap  ho:  gymen  ifcc. 

146  „      Gtm  ap  tin  ap  jfeuan  ap  gr:  ap  dd: 

„      p.  ^er:  ap  mred  ap  matusasem  [c/.  p.  loo]  =  Gr:  V'n  &c. 

,,      Hvw  morgan  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  It.  &c. 

„      ILys  dvlas  :  Tho:  llwyd  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  gfm  &n. 

147  D.  hlwyd :  John  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  ftn  goch  &c. 

148  „  Syr  John  ap  gr:  goch  ap  syr  jf.  person  U.  givi/vcii 
ap  syr  D.  vyciian  person  11.  gwyven  &c. 

130  tegaingl :  Tho:  a  chatrin  plant  Bdw:  ap  ^thel  ap  ]fer:  &c. 
151         „  Syr  nicklas  ap  fthel  ap  D.  ap  'ifer:  V'n  &c. 

162  swydd  ddinhycli :  Mred:  ap  Dd:  ap  egn:  vycban  etc. 

163  D.  hlwyd :  K.  ap  D.  ap  ttn  ap  the:  ap  D.  gam  &c. 

b.  Powys  :  Syr  gr:  vycban  ap  gr:  ap  ]fenan  &c. 

c.  llivyth  trevor  :  jfeuaf  ap  Adda  ap  awr  ap  ]feuaf  Ac. 
154  (Ther  was  an  Eavthe  quake  .  .  xxvj  rcbrnar>-  .  .  1574 

6.  Mil  a  hauner  duw  ner  on  iaith  triswllt  ond  trossi  dwy  3-maith 

y  krynodd  ackw  av  vnwaith  hyllder  fv  hoU  daiair  faitli  Syr  Lewis  Gelhiii) 
155  Pvmp  plas  tomas*  ap  Kic:  ap  ho:  ap  ^eu:  vycban  ai  harvav: 
(1)  I'engwern.  (2)  tref  gastell,  (3)  Mostvn,  (4)  tref  garnedd  y  mon, 
(5)  y  plas  ynghloddaith 

169t  {Melienydd :  John  dv  ap  Eolant  ddv  ap  bedo  dv 

163  kolvnwy  :  John  kolvnwy  ap  ho:  kol:  ap  mevric  ap  Mred:  kt. 

6.  &  167  Owain  stiwart  ap  ho:  ap  Ph: 

167  Tref  Alvn :  John  Trefor  ap  J.  T.  ap  J.  T.  ap  Ric.  T.  &c. 

173  A  table  tracing  Ric:  Herbart  &  Edw:  thelwal  from  T.  ap  Gr:) 

174  A  table  tracing  the  "Mylltyns"  from  Ririd  botho 

175  Keri :  Morys  ap  Mred:  ap  ^eu:  &c.  &c. 

176  hilken :  John  fi'aknallt  ap  tomas  ap  elis  &c. 

*  "  This  Thomas  was  the  6rst  to  adopt  the  surname  of  Mostyn  in  iho  time  of 
Kowland  Lee  bishop  of  Lichfield."~"W.  W.  E.  W.  Pages  155-158  arc  in  the 
autograph  of  Simwnt  Vychau. 

j-  rages  159-73  Haw  VV'm:  llyyu 


8181  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  l3I. 

177*  {R.  Vaucjhan' s  transcript  of  Y llyfr  bychan  0  VaesmoM 
o  waiih  a  Haw  Gutfyn  Owen ' 

Eobt:  ap  Gr:  ap  Eys  ap  D.  ap  Ho:  ap  O.  Bleddyn  &c.) 
193    (^Wm:  Llyn's  Index  of  proper  names  [M-W]  in  the  pages  following') 

198  sieffre  ap  Robart  ap  John  ap  gr:  &c. 

"  ILaw  fexmn  Brechva." 

199  The  mothers  of  IL'n  ap  ]fer:  ap  ywain,  of  Madoc  ap  Mred:  ap 
bleddyn,  and  of  Mred:  and  Bleddyn 

200  Plant  Ow.  Gwyncdd 

201  Maibionn  kadwaladr  ap  Gr  ; — kadvan  (or  lin  vam  ac  Ywain 
kyvailioc),  Einiawn,  Mred:  goch,  a  chadwallawn  &c. 

b.  Plant  Gr:  ap  Cynan  and  his  Irish  kindred 

203  The  mothers  of  the  sons  of  Rhodri  mawr,  of  Elidir  ap 
ssannddef,  of  Kadwallawn  ap  Kadvann,  of  Run  ap  Maelgwn, 
&  of  Maelgwn  Gwynedd 

b.  Tii  lie  y  dylyd  arglwyddiaeth  vyned  o  gogail  &c. 

204  The  sons  of  Rhodri  Mawr  and  their  descendants 

b.  Dehau  bartli :  Rys  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  Tewdwr  Mawr  &c. 
206    (7tein  that  Richard  worley  dyd  depart  from  my  bowse  &c. 

7tem  that  my  Lord  Barboure  dyd  depart  from  my  howsc  the  day  afore 
seynt  Tho:  the  martyr.) 
208  Plant  yr  Arglwydd  Rys  and  their  descendants 

214  Merddin  wyllt  am  ryw  ddyn  y[dwyf]     .... 
a  iag  vn  weu  ai  gollengnai  (I.  28)  || 

215  Mam  Rys  ap  Maiiric  oedd  V5  Jankyn  ap  Jeu:  is  koed  kydweli 
ap  Gr:  Dwnn  &c. 

216  kilgeran  :  Jankyn  ap  gr:  .  .  ,  ap  Jen:  Uwyd  &c.  i 
b.  kaslell  fftvis  :  syr  John  Wgan  o  Wistwn 

t.    [lly]  ma  y  Ryw  lyf rau  y  ssydd  gyda  syr  — ^^-^ 
31  o  vis  Mai  kyntaf  yw  y  brawd  ko}         rthyu  || 

♦  kwaear  y  ssydd  yndo  a  24  dalcn  ym  hob  kwaear  — — 

y  llyfr  gwjTin  o  63  dalen  a  thri  chwaear  o  a^oedd 

ar  llyfr  a  elwir  twta        tew  hyrr  yw  a  chwaear  ob  — — 

0  hen  yssgrlfcu  o  ymladdau  twywyssogion  mewn  — — 

*  wledd  yn  aber  taivi 

217  The  mothers  of  Gronwy  ap  tiidur,  of  Tudiir  ap  Gronwy,  of 
Gr:  and  Gronwy  sons  of  Ednyfed  Vychan  and  his  own  mollicr  (p.  218) 

b.  Rhodri  Mawr  divides  Wales  into  3  "  Talaiths  " 
219  syr  Rys  ap  tomas  ap  Gr:  argl:  emlyn.    See  p.  295  below. 

222  Ty  gmynn  :  Tomas  abad  y  ty  Gwynn  ap  Rjs  ap  arod  ap  jfcu: 
ap  Gtm  ap  ttn  ddii  .  .  .  ap  Rydderch  ddu  o  dal  y  llynu 

223  Y  velfre  :  Plant  leuan  ap  tomas  ap  ]feuan=Phil]p  &c. 

b.  Plant  ^euan  Uwyd  ap  jfeuan  &c. 

c.  JL.  ymddyfri :  Plant  einion  np  gtm  gwynn  &c. 

224  Morganicc  :  Dam  'Johned  Mathaii  V3  domas  Mathau  &c. 
b.  Plant  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  vy3an  &c. 

225  iiwch  aeron  .■  *  *  *  V3  domas  ap  ph:  ap  adam  vy5an 

b.  Tref  Lech  ar  bettws  :  leuan  ap  ho:  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  &c. 

c.  IL.  iiw}  aeron :  Dd:  ap  Gr:  ap  dd:  ap  ^eu:  ap  Gr:  &c, 

226  Mab  ailvyw  :  Plant  Rys  ap  dd:  ap  tomas  ap  dd:  &c. 

227  Gividigada  JL.  llaivddoc :  Rys  ap  Yin  ap  Dd:  ap  einioiin  &c. 

228  kaeo  pkcyf  kynnwyl :  Rydder}  ap  gtm  ap  Morgan  &c. 


*  Pages  177-S,  ll»w  Rob:  Vaughan, 


''llaw  |euan  brechva."  81!^ 

229  Dyfed :  gwraic  Pli:  ap  Mred:  ap  Pli:  ap  Mad:  =  '/oued  V5 
■Jankyn  llwyd  ap  ']&i:  llwyd  ap  jfeu:  y5aa 

h.  uwcii  aeron  :  Gwraic  Jeuanap  Lewys  ap  Vin  vy5an  =  dmwystl 
V3  feuan  ap  gwilim  ap  ttn  vy3an  &c. 

230  Kynmcyl  (jjieo :  Morgaun  (mikar)  ap  D.  ap  gr:  vy3aii  &c. 
Gwedy  saetliii  jr  afal  uv  benn  Madoc  vy^an  y  vab  o  [ai'c]h  a  gorcliyiiiyn 

Malld  Walbri  arglwyddes  brychaiuioc  ac  wedy  taro  yr  aval  a  diank  y  luab  y 
daiith  mad:  ar  lliiigill  dii  i  gefwder  ac  y  dalyssant  hi  ac  ai  Icrogyssant  hi  ai  mail 
yny  thwr  ehun  ac  yna  y  doetliaut  ar  herw  y  forest  lynn  kothi  att  gcnpdl  mam 
madoc  saiithydd  &c. 

231  ILywel :  Tho^  ap  Morgan  ap  tomas  ap  trahaearu  &c. 
b.  Glynn  tawy  :  Dd:  awbrai  ap  laiikyn  ap  Morgan  &c. 

232  Gicidigada  argoedws:  Lewys  ap  D.  ap  einion  ap  Rys  vawr  &c. 

233  ILannvynydd :  syr  John  ap  ....  am  llwyd  ap  'j.  &c. 

b.  Jss  gennen :  Mam  Ho:  ap  Hennri  ap  glra  oedd  ddyddgy  &c. 

c.  Dyfed,  TLann  Valdec :  Harri  a  Ha  ap  Gr:  ap  Ywain  &c. 

234  uwch  aeron  ■   Plant  }euan  ap  JBys  go}  &c. 

236  Jachocdd  Gwynedd :  Eys  Nant  m&r  mab  mred:  ap  J.  go)  &c. 

237  Anna  mam  vair  &c. 

b.  Dyved:  p.  'Jankyn  llwyd  =  O.,  Morus  &c.  .  .  0  bwll  dyfacli. 

c.  keredigion:  Ywain  ay  J.  ap  pli:  ap  Rydderch  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 

238  XV  llOyth  G. — Ednywaiu  ap  Bradwain  o  vairionydd  &c. 
b.  Eraill  0  ivaed  GoryOchel :  Ridid  vlaidd  o  bennllyn  &c. 

239  G6yr  hyd  :  Gr:  ap  Ednyfed  ap  arou  &c.     Sec  pp.  288-9  below. 
b.  JL.  gathen  :  ILaissionn  ap  ywain  ap  Wm:  ap  Eys  &c. 

240  Gwchelyth  Kaeo :  John  y  glynn  brawd  dd:  abad  j  glynu  ap 
Dd:  ap  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Dd:  vongam  &c. 

b.  TL.  ym  ddyfri :  g.  ]f.  ap  ^.  sant  =  angharad  V5  Wallder*  ddii  ka. 

241  iivch  aeron  y  dohdor  vychann :  y  dokdor  John  ap  dd:  ap  R3S 
ap  jlankynn  ap  trahavarn  &c.     Also  MS.  133,  p.  106. 

242  Flant  Rys  ap  Jankyn :  trahayarn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Gr;  Voel  ctcf 

243  &  267  Aber  gioili:  Wm:  ap  ^.  ap  Mred:  ap  Glm  ap  Eys  &c.J 
b.   Yvelj]rey  .  Plant  Mred:  ap  Gr:  ap  ftn  ap  f .  llwyd  &c. 

244  Plant  Henrri  ap  Gtm  ap  ]f.  ap  ]f.  ap  itn  =  D.  a  Maestr.Morus 
yr  hwnu  wr  y  sydd  yn  kadw  bottelaii  y  brenin  Harri  wythfed  pan  el  i  hela  ac  ef  a 
brawf  y  ddiod  a  vo  yny  bottel  0  "vlaen  y  brenin 

245  Rich:  flylpod  o  ros  a  hanoedd  o  sswydd  heuflordd  etc. 

b.  AA:  QO(i\i  o  lann  gann  .   .   .  Rys  ap  Mred:  o  L.  bedcry  vcIU'rc  ic. 

246  Gwelielyth  y  k6m6d pcrved  a  MyUac[n~\ 
Plant  Ho:  g03  ap  Gr:  ap  kad:  vychan  &c. 

247  Rys  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  vycAan  .  .  .  ap  trahaearn  o  ryd  ody/i 

b.  Rydd}  ap  Ywain  .  .  .  .  ap  einion  ap  llywar5  o  L.  dailo  vaicr 

c.  John  j  marl  girtts  o  ddinbyi  y  pyssgod 

d.  Mred:  ap  ywain  or  tywynn 

e.  Gr:  ap  Rys  .  .  .  ap  elenn  V5  Wm:  ryd  &c. 

248  Rissiart  Morttmer  barwn  hoetmor  emyl  kiigeran 

b.  dd:  ap  Hn  ap  dd:  o  gefn  Melgoed  yngheredigion 

c.  Mred:  bwl  ap  gwallter  ap  Gtm  o  L.  ym  ddyfri.     See  MS.  133,  p.  47. 

d.  Fl.unt  kynan  ap  ho:  aais  a  golles  (?)  talacharn  gaun  y  ffarkod 

e.  Wallder  o  Mred:  o  vabiidrud  ap  hailyn  &c. 

/.  ywain  ap  kradoc  .  .  ap  ysbwys  ap  golwc  ko3  o  lywel  ap  baidoc 
wyllt  brenin  Jwerddonn 

249  Wallder  ap  gr:  ap  Jeuan  Jsskoed  hydweli 
tomas  ap  John  0  gydewain 

b.  Cradoc  vy5ann  p  Gr.  velyn  ap  tegwas  v.  o  aber gwauynyu  yfcd 

c.  g.  einion  kest  =  vargred  V5  U'n  ap  kynnedda  .  .  ap  uricn  Reged 

Y7U1  lli/fr  Gr:  ap  dd:  einionn  ij  kefais  yr  achoedd  hynn 

♦  Also  in  Pen.  MS.  133,  p.  100,        f  lb.,  p.  107.        X  lb.,  pp.  108,  154, 


820  PENIAIITH   MANUSCRIPT   131. 

Bonedd  Gwijr  Tiydweli  a  henynt  o  vrenhinllwythau  tlyfed 
2.50  p.  ac  wyroii  Gr:  ap  Wq  ap  gwrgant  =  kadwgan  vawr  &c. 
251,  255  Plant  ]faiikyn  vy3an  ....   [ap  kadwgan  v.]  o  bennbref 

b.  Tomas  llvvyd  ap  Gtm  vy5an  o  lami  gennych 

c.  John  ap  Morgan  .  .  .  ap  J.  Jsskoed  ap  Gr:  Mwrn^  kroesallgwnn 

yn  llann  y  saint  yng  hyd  well 

d.  T.  ap  D.  ap  Wm:  bwttler  y  Gr:  ryd  ystiwart  pennvro.    See  p.  255 

e.  Jobn  llvvyd  o  L.  dailo  vawr 

f.  Harri  giowy  [o]  wyr  o  bWyf  L.  dailo  venvnllt. 

252  J()hn  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  V'n  o  L.  gennyi  ynglann  E;ycliwr. 
TL'n  ap  Wm;  ap  John  .  .  ap  J.  o  kefnkoed  yn  IL.  egwad  vawr, 

253  John  ap  D.  ap  Hennrri  o  L.  dyvaeloc 
John  ap  Eys  o  Abergw^ili 

Plant  Gr:  ap  kad:  bratcd  gr:  ddwnn  o  groes  allgwnn  &c. 
Wallder  v'n  ap  Morgan  ap  Rys  ap  ho:  o  L.  gadoc 

254  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  einion  ap  Jankynn  Ilwyd  o  L.  gynn  dauijrn 

p.  mred:  ap  Harri  dwnn  o  bikdwnn  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  henrri  d. 
Hiiw  ryd  ap  morus  ryd  yssydd  yn  trigio  yn  i&.  ystyfann 

255  Wm:  Perod  o  ysgottbwrch  ymyl  dinby}  y  pyssgod 
Trabaearn  ap  Morgan  o  vorgannwc 

Tomas  ap  ph:  ap  Mred:  ap  ph:  ap  Madoc  o  gil  y  sant 

Nest  V5  Wallder  mam  John  ap  Morgan  essgob  dewi     U96-1504 

256  John  Hoessgynn  ap  Harri  ....  Morgan  buelld  ap  ho: 
Wattgynn  g03  ap  dil:  ap  lio:  o  went 

Plant  Hiluydd  V3  Jer:  ap  kad:  vy3ann  &c.  diwedd  kydweli 

Ach  gwyr  o  dalgarth  :  John  vain  ap  To^  vain.    Also  MS.  133,  p.  140. 

257  Bonedd  gwyro  Wernann  a  goruchel  brelad  y  m^^  Unw  &p  Mred: 
259  Bonedd  gwyr  Jssgennenn  IL.  dybia  micar  Maidrym   Maslr 

John  Gxeynn  un  o  batrvmn  ILanedi  syr  John  Gwynn  yvv  of  ap  D.  ap 
J.  &c.  Mam  Hennrri  ap  J.  Gwynn  oedd  elein  Wilssi  merch  syr 
John  Wilssi  kapclenn  dinefwr  ac  am  hynny  yr  oedd  y  henrri  ap  J. 
gwynn  ddec  Mork  o  rent  yny  dref  ne  wydd  a  chylch  llwyn  lliw  alaw 

261  Bonedd  gwyr  TLann  Onn  a  Charn6llonn  :  Y  maestr  D.  persson 
ystrad  gynnlais  mab  Gwallder  ap  ]f.  dew  ap  ho:  &c. 

263  Bonedd  gwyr  hyddeli  a  s6ydd  gaer :  Y  maestr  Twain  mikar 
llann  )ssmel  mab  Gwallder  ap  Gim  ap  dd.  ddii  &c. 

264, 273  g.  Ei'n  ap  dd:  Riiddlann  V3  Gr:  wyddel  ap  f .  ap  Gr:  —  voel  &c. 
Rys  Ilwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  dd:  vy3an  o  L.  pibwr 

264-5  Bonedd  ystrat  ty6i 

IL.  ganlenn  :  Y  maestr  Jolin  ap  Hennrri.  ap  R.  &c. 

266  Plant  Hennrri  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

267  Jen:  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Glm  o  vabudriid 

c.  J.  yyAim  ap  J.  ap  einion  ap  y  Ilwyd  o  bant  ystrad  buc 
268-9  Jaioedd  y   Mestr  Leieys   kanntor  mynyw  oblegyd  gwraic 
kadwgan  .  .  o  gas  tell  howel  yng  herdigion    eva  oedd  hi  r3  Gr:  ap 
*]feu:  sais  ar5  'Jagon  keredigion 

274  H^.  dyfaeloc :  John  ap  dd:  ap  Hennrri  ap  ^.  ap  Gr:  &c. 
276  ILyma  Ganii  borth  diiC  He  dechrauumn  Ni  o  brif  Jachoed  y 
brytannaid  a  hynn  o  arch  vy  argl6yd  i  am  Jiannrydedusaf  vaistr 
y  Maestr  Harri  ap  Ho:  ap  G6allder  arch  diagonn  \}  14^6-1308] 
s6yd  Gatr  verdin  a  channonn  ymynyO  See  also  p.  304. 


*  This  Jeuan  Sais  is  not  given  in  the  Fasti  Ecr.hsiae  Anglicaiiac  among  (lie 
nrclidcacous  of  Cardifjan.  I'lom  U32  to  1534  is  left  a  blank  iu  the  Duffus  Hardy 
edition  of  Le  Neve. 


"ILAW  JEUAN  BRECHVA."  821 

b.  Tair  Gwelygord  saint  Y,  B.  ynt  Plant  Brycban  15.  &c. 

c.  Plant  l<ynnedda  wledic  :  kyredic  &c. 

277       ,,     Brychann  ap  korin6c  breniii  'JOerdon 

279  „     kaw  o  brydynn  a  phlant  ILyOaich  hen 

280  p.  (l)Urien  Eeged,  (2)  Uew  ap  kynvarch,  (3)  kenaii  ap  koel 
h.  Bonedd  keri :  llys  ap  D.  Ihvyd  ap  dd:  ap  einion  &c.* 

„  ^.  ap  Madoc  ap  gr:  aj)  ftn  sais  &c.* 

„  Adda  ap  Madoc  ap  jVJieJ:  ap  Maelgwn  &c.* 

281  Bonedd  s6ydd  tref  esgob  :  Grr:  ap  lankyn  ap  lio:  ap  Gr:  v'n  &c.* 
h.  „  bachell  dref:  Jenajx  ap  Gr:  go)  ap  kadwgan  ap  Gr:  &c.| 
c.         „        Gt07/rJi6}iffG6i/ a  Hqfrenn :  MTed:apilo:\>\danini&c.* 

282  „       Gwyr  Py6ys  :  Gr:  maelor  a  Ywain  vysan  &c. 
Gwehelyth  arwystli:  Ho:  ap  ^aiiaf  ap  ywain  &c. 

G.  Ardudwy  :  Bleddud  ap  kradawc  ap  Jeuanawl  &i-, 
G.  Penllynn :  Mairion  ap  llenoddau  ap  Eoed  &c. 
B.  g6yr  o  vairionydd :  Kynau  ap  brochvaelan  &e. 

283  G.  kyfailoc :  Gronwy  ap  einion  ap  aaissylld  &c. 
G.  Bos :  Ho:  varfB  vehinioc  ap  kradoc  &c. 

G,  dogvailic :  Kynnwric  ap  ^aleth  las  &c. 

Bonedd  einion  ap  Gwalchmai  ap  Mailir  ap  Jarddur  &c. 

B.  Hwva  ap  Kynnddelw  ap  Kwnws  ap  kehylyn  &c. 

284  B.  Bran  :  Kadwgan  a  jfer:  ap  llywarch  ap  bran  &c. 
B.  gwyr  penntraeth  :  Rob:  ap  mad:  ap  mailir  &c, 
B.  kyfailoc :  Kad:  ap  itn  ap  Gryfri  ap  Mred:  &c. 

.,  ]feu:  ap  Kydifor  ap  jfthel  ap  Mailir  ddii  &c. 

B.  Arwystli :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Kad:  ap  Gr:  ap  adda  &c4 

„  Tamwn  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  Hn  ap  Griffri  &c.% 

„  Ywain  ap  Gr:  ap  ywain  moel  ap  ph:  &c.% 

285  G.  kaer  Einionn:  Ywain  ap  Mred:  ap  dd:  ap  Gr:  vy3an  AcJ 
Bonedd  gwyr  Mechain  :  Gr:  ap  Jankynn  ap  Hn  &c.J 

B.  g.  Mechain  Jss  hoed:  John  ap  ]f.  ychann  ap  ho:  &c.§ 

„  „  'Jolhynn  ap  Mad:  vy3au  &c.§ 

Mechain  iiwch  hoed:  Dd:  gethin  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c.§ 
B.  g.  hegidva :  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  Kad:  wennwys  &c.§ 
B.  hwrrtwd  dauddior  :  Dd:  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  &c.§ 
B.  tref  u-ern  :  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Gr:  go5  &c.§ 

286  B.  g.  ystiad  Marchell :  Mred:  ap  ]fankynn  ap  Mred:  &c.lf 
B.  g.  tref  Wilystami .  Kadwaladr  ap  ywain  ap  Dd:  &c.^\ 
B.  g.  o  gegidva:  Dd:  ap  ^euan  ap  Ridid  np  Mauric  &c.^ 
B.  g.  3Iochnant  is  Raeadr :  Ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  ^er:  go}  &c.% 

„  „  J.  gethin  ap  Mad:  kyffin  &c.\ 

B.  g.  Kynnllech  Ywain :  Mad:  koeh  ap  Mailir  ap  tangwel  ^c.% 

287  B.  g.  Maelor  G. — John  'Jautynn  ap  Jamas  &c. 
B.  g.  trefor  :  Adda  g03  ap  ^aua  ap  Adda  &c. 

B.  g.  Maelor  S. — Hn  ddu  ap  Gr:  ap  ^er:  voel  &c. 
B.  g.  0  Jul:  J.  ap  itn  ap  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Gr:  &c. 
B.  o  bennllynn  :  John  llwyd  ap  dd:  llwyd  ap  Ho:  &c. 
B.  g.  Mairionydd :  Ynyr  vy5an  ap  ynyr  ap  Mauric  Ac. 

288  XVllOyth  Gwynedd :  Ednywain  ap  Bradwen  &c. 

Gwyr  a  gyfrifir  Gydar  XVll6yth  :  Ridid  vlaidd  o  bennllynn, 
(2)  Yw:  ap  aldud  o  dref  y  ffynnon — i  dad  a  laddodd  kradoc  ap  alnoc 
brenin  penn  ar  laoc,  (3)  Tyved  ap  ennydd  argl:  tref  y  fFynonn  a 
chann  mwya  swydd  y  fflynt 


*  Also  in  P«n.  MS.  133,  p.  111.     t  Ib„  p.  108.     J  lb.,  p.  112.    §Ib.,  p.  113. 

^  lb.,  p.  114, 


822  PKNIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS  181-132, 

289  Gwijr  ]/syd  yn  dyfocl  or  XV  ll6yth  a  elOyr  kyd :  Crr:  ap 
ednyfed  ap  aron  &c.  (2)  D.  goch  ap  Mred:  ap  adam  &c.,  (3)  Syr 
D.  annwyl  ap  "].  ap  Gr:  &c.,  (4)  Mred:  tip  Eys  ap  ^.  llwyd,  (5) 
Tegaingl :  Elis  up  Rys  ap  Gr:  bennvras  ap  Gr:  vy3ann  &c.,  (6) 
3Ion :  Lewys  ap  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  &c.,  (7)  Pe«?»  llynn :  Einion  ap 
Gronwy  ap  tudiir  &c. 

290  Plant  hjnndr6yn  o  Lastinwnan  ynghaer  -E  *  *  # ;  Elian  &c. 

„      Gwyddno  garanir :  Elfin,  Idris  arw,  kann 

,,      Ho:  dda  :  einion,  Ho:  vysan 

„      -Emm'cwo  6e»w  Aarrec. •  Ph:  ap  Ein:  ap  Mred:  apkad  &c. 

291  Bonedd  Henrri  vii  mab  'Jemwnfc  [ap]  Ywain  ap  Mred:  &c. 

294  Mam  tomas  ap  Hn  ap  Yw:  argl:  isskoed  oedd  wanas  V3  tomas 
np  robinod  kwnstabyl  kastell  TL.  ystyffann  ac  a  ddauth  ar  i  21  o 
vairch  gwnnion  y  wressgyn  korrws  .  .  ar  y  ifordd  .  .  kyfarvii  ac  ef 
ysbryd  Gr;  ap  R.  ap  ph:  vy3an  .  .  .  ai  lyssenw  oedd  Gr:  corr  y 
gyngrair  ai  ysbryd  ef  a  laddodd  Robinod  ar  y  ffordd 

295  Rys  ap  tomas  ap  Gr:  ap  nikolas  raarchoc  or  gartter  a  barwn 
Rial  ar  gaeriw  ac  argl:  11.  sadwrn  a  chygyrwaiiyn  a  chilssaen  ac  emlyn 
a  chil  keuin  ac  aberaeron  a  ILann  Rys  dryd  a  chloegin  a  11.  gybi  a 
gwibli  yngwyr  a  llanu  dimwr  yngwyr  .  .  .  ap  Ph:  ap  Elidiir  ddu  .  . 
iip  urien  Reged  .  .  a  bioedd  kydweli  a  charnwUon  ac  Jssgenneun  a 
lioll  wyr  .  .  .  mam  tomas  ap  Gr:  ap  nikolas  oedd  vabli  V3  mred:  ap 
Henri  Dwnn  &C.      Also  p.  219  above,  and  Pen.  MS.  128,  p.  850. 

298  Bonedd  sgr  Gr:  marchog  or  Bath  mab  yr  arg:  Rys  ap  T.  ap 
Gr:  ap  nikolas  &c.  Mam  syr  Gr:  =  eva  V3  Henri  ap  Gim  ap  T.  v'n 

300  Yr  ail  wraic  briod  a  vii  yr  arg:  Rys  ap  T.  ap  N.  oedd  dam 
'jomiei  Mathau  V5  domas  Mathau  &c. 

302  Kydweli  :  Plant  Ho:  ap  Gwallder  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

304  kaer  verddin  :  Yr  arg:  domas  prior  k.  verddin  mab  moriis  ap 
ywain  ap  einion  .  .  .  ap  golwc  ko3  arg:  (Liwel  ym)rychannoc 

307  Maestr  John  talhai  ssiawnssler  Mynyw  a  ffersson  kaer 
[?  verddin]  ac  Arberth  a  llann  i  hadain  a  IPenbris  a  llann  [.'  dda]roc 
mab  oedd  ef  i  J.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  Gtm  vy3ann  &c. 

308  The  MS.  ends :  ap  y  gwelw  \_sic]  ko3  o  liwel. 


MS.  132  =  Hen.  436.  Pedigrees  in  the  autographs  of  Lewis 
3Iorganwg,  Griffitli  Hiraethog,  William  JLyn  and  others.  Paper; 
about  81  X  6  inches;  334  pages;  1540-77  ;  half -bound  in  calf. 

Pages  107-40,  143-'j  are  said  to  be  in  hand  of  Lewis  Morganwg;  pages  27-8, 
43-55,57,91-100,  102-6,  141,  149-50,  153-72,  176-90,  194-5,  222-31,  234-45, 
251-82  293-96  arc  in  the  hand  of  Gr:  Hiraethog  who  died  circa  1566*  ;  and  pages 
•^-26  31-5  38,  40-1,  67-90,  100-1,  142,  152,  169,  173,  178,  194,  212,214-8,232-3, 
247-50,  254,  282,  303-34  in  that  of  William  Ll^n  who  died  in  1.'587  ;  there  are 
several  other  hands  including  few  entries  by  Simwnt  Vychan  (p.  39). 

Llyjfer  William  llyn  (p.  31).  There  are  marginalia  in  a  hand  like  that  of  Ehys 
Cain  (p.  28). 

1-3  Pedigrees  in  the  autograph  of  Eobt;  Vaughan 
4  «  Yu  y  llyfr  hwnn  y  mac  achaii  o  law  Lewis  Morgannwg,  Gr:  Hiraethog  a 
Wm:  Llyn  or  achos  hynny  y  rhoddaii  y  nod  M  H  L  arno  &c."  Eobt,  Vaughan, 
5-19       Index  in  the  autograph  of  Wm:  ILj^n 

23  &  33  ^  table  of  the  descendants  of  ^feuan  blaene 


•There  are  various  entries  in  this  MS.,  dated  1564,  and  some  additions  in  Pen. 
MS  177  dated  1565;  these  are  in  the  hand  of  Gr:  Hiraethoc  and  show  that  he 
ivas  alive  in  1565.  But  as  he  was  not  mentioned  as  present  at  the  Caerwys 
Eisteddvod  of  1567,  the  inference  is  that  he  was  then  dead, 


LLAW  aEIFFITH  HIRAETHOG.  823 

25   Y facuor  ;  p.  Rissiart  ap  Eclwart  ap  Ho:  &c. 

hi/dcwain,  trefg}jnon,yneiutddyngrc(;vnoc :  \).  Ihvydblaenav  ap  T. 

27  helynoc  yn  arvon :  Tho:  ap  Gr:  ap  'Jankyn  ap  Rys  &c. 
yfionydd :  J.  /  Ric:  /  To:  /  a  Wm:  =  meib  gr:  ap  J.  ap  gronw  &c. 
Itrevddyn  is  konwy:  Reinallt  a  hai-i  =:  meib  kyn:  ap  Edn:* 

28  ,,  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Ry.s  ap  Hu  vychan  ap  Ha  ap  kyn:  &c. 
,,             Rys  Wyn  ap  Gr:  ap  ttn  vjehan  &c. 

„  Ho:  /  R.  /  a  Rob.  =  meib  J.  ap  mred:  ap  Hii  &c. 

„  Huw  /  Rob  /  R.  /  ^.  /  0  =  D.  ap  Robin  ap  Hn  &c. 

„  Mad:  ap  Gr:  dew  ap  Gr:  ap  bo:  penrryn  &c. 

„  ftn  ap  kwntos  ap  bleddyu  ap  mad:  ap  grono  &u. 

„  y  penrryn  :  Edn:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  grono  &o. 

„  „  D.  ap  J.  ap  Jer:  apgr:  gooli  apkyn:  &c. 

„  „  Reinallt  ap  j.  ap  einiou  &c. 

31  Kefn  amwlch  :  John  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

32  pentref  heilin,  Elsmer :  p.  heilin  ap  trahayarn  =  Enion  gocli  &c. 
yffernill  yn  y  drefwen  :  Rob:  wynn  ap  Edw:  ap  Rob:  &o. 

34  kydewain  a  beriw,  ystvmgwern :  Ow:  ap  ho:  ap  Owain 

35  plwyf  keintyn  :  Siarls  vychan  ap  siamys  ap  vvatgyn  v'n  &c. 

36  Edeirnion  :  Plant  Evan  ap  giwn  or  Eva  V5  Mad:  ap  gronwy  &c. 

38  Fenllyn:  'j.  /  Mred:  /  D.  =  meib  Mad:  ap  f .  a  elwir  y  hot  &c. 

39  IL.  drillo  yn  edeyrnion  :     Plant  tomas  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Jer:  &c. 
JL.  ykit,  pennllynn :  p.  J.  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Ywain  &c. 

JL.  drillo  :  p.  Elis  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

p.  J.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  y  giwn  llwyd  &c. 

40  Dinmael :  D.  ap  Tudiir  ap  owain  vychan  &c. 

Edeirnion  :  D.  /  Gr:  /  sion  a  tho:  =  meib  "].  ap  Einion  ap  gr:  &c. 
Dinmael  ydernion  :  ho:  a  gr:  =  meib  Rys  ap  1).  ap  ho:  &c. 
Edeirnion:  p.  D.  ap  J,  ap  einion  =M'Rob: /to:/gr:  glynn  &c. 

41  „  ^.  I  Edn:  =  meib  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Einion  &c. 

„  D.  holbais  ap  J.  goch  ap  D.  ap  ^er:  ap  Kyn:  &c. 

42  Arfe  (I)  ho:   goch  ap  R.  9  Ian  gynllo  yn  rriwallt ;  (2)  gamais ; 
(3)  arg:  barkle  ;  (4)  ior  11.  ddoche  ;  (5)  ystradlin  ;  (6)  konwy  o  fotryddan. 

43  Table,  Sjc.  of  the  descendants  of  W.  Corbet,  miles. 

47  The  pedigree  of  the  Corbels  and  its  connection  with  the  Stafford, 
Bwrch,  Leyghton,  Newport,  and  Mylton  families  .  i563. 

51  Sir    Gaer  yn  arfon,  koedmor  :  W.  /  a  Rob:  =  meib    pirs    ap 
Rys  ap  Rob:  ap  ^euan  vychan 

Gr:  a  Wm:  meib  tudr  ap  ho:  ap  tudr  ap  ]f.  &c. 

52  To:  ap  Ho:  ap  gronvv  ap  Hn  .  .  .  ap  D.  vychan  &c. 

R./  syr  hvw/  D.  ac  if.  —  meib  gim  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  ho:  voel  &c. 

Meibion  kadrod  Hardd  .■  (1)  Gwydr  pioedd  tre  fadog  ap  gwydr 
yn  hal  ebolion  (2)  Edii:  pioedd  tref  Edn:  yn  hal  ebolion,  (3)  Ouain 
pioedd  tref  Owain  ynghwmwd  llifon,  (1)  Sandde,  Jddon  ac  attlien 
aeth  i  dre  fodavon  ynhwr  kelyn 

53  hvw  llwyd  ap  hvw  ap  Edn:  ap  kwnws  &c. 

54  A  table  of  the  descendants  ofD.  ap  Gr:  ap  karadoc 

55  „  „  Jak  spyser  o  Wilsir — Caernarfon 

56  Nanmel — melienydd :  Huw  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  ap  R. 

57  7«  kynen — tref  gastell :  p.  Eydderch  ap  J.  Uwyt  &c. 

58  Gwraig  Mred:  ap  henry  Dwn  oedd  merch  D.  ap  Hn  &c, 

■    59  Llyma    Gof  am  yr  amser  y   bu  Eisteddvod  ynghaerwys  .  .  .  o.k.     15C7 
Mai  26.     A  list  of  the  Commissioners  and  graduates  follows. 


►  llyfr  trefeilir  «=  pp.  27-8. 


824  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   13-2. 

67.  DOSBARTH  ARVAV :  (1)  naw  lliw.  (2)  naio  planed 
6S  (1)  naxo  main  gimjrthvawr.  (2)  naw  toriad  tarian 

69  naw  hagd  nav  arwyddion  o  vrddas  sydd  yn  Gwellav  pais 

70  M\  o  arwyddion  urddasol.     7.3  .ix.  arwydd  kyffredinol 
74  .ix.  anvrddas  pais.     75   .ix.  diobl  menteill 

76  .ix.  kymt/sgiad  Tarian.     77  .ix.  Gioahan   vrddassol 
78   .ix.  kymysgiad  or  .ix.  arwyddion.     79  .ix.  diffrens  brodyr 
80  .ix.  rwndele  ne  droellav.     81  .ix.  Gradd  bonedd 
82  .ix.  math    ar   wyr   bonhcddion:  Gwreang  a  lladdo   wr  bon- 
eddic  o  angristion     Ef  all  ddwyn  i  bais  ai  grest  ac  y  mae  i  oresgyn- 
iiydd   yn  vonheddic  o  waed    ac    yma  y  nodir    na  all    Icristioii   yn 
ymodd  hwnn   wisgo  pais   kristion  arall  onid  os  gyr  kristion  pann 
\o  I  r  vaner  reial  ar  led  wr  diethr  i  flo  ef  all  vrddavv  i  bais  yn  y 
guniel  alw  ac  arfav  hwnnw  &c. 

84  Dosbarth  Tarianav  a  chroessav.     85  am  y  llewod 

Ryolav  angrraid  igwybod :  pobgwr  boneddie  a  all  dwyn  pais 
i  wraic  pty  pal  ai  bais  y  hun  &c. 

o  gyiivUiad  wmffre  llwyd  o  dref  ddinbycb  ai  Tynnodd 

0  ffrangec  ac  ieithoedd  eiaill 

91  Nanhevdwy — y  plas :  p.  mad:  llwyd  ap  Jer:  voel  &c.     1R63. 

95  Dyjfryn  clwyd :  p.  Wallter  kwc  =  W.  /  J.  /  alls  &c. 
p.  J.  thelwal  o  ffelis  =  Dd:  &c. 

96  p.  Simwnt  thelwal  o  sioned  langfFort  &c. 

100  Mochnant :  J.  devddwr  ap  Hn  ap  tomas  &e. 

101  Maenan :  Morys  kyffin  ap  syr  D.  Owain  &c. 

102  Henwe  hen  brydyddion .  kasnodin  .  .  .  hillyn. 

103  Merched  Mad:  ap  Gr:  ap  E.  =  Gwenhwyvar  &c.    See  p.  94  above 

105  P.  Tudr  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  Edn:  gam  =  Mad:  /gr.  &c. 

106  Nan  heudwy — hedre  geginan :  p.  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  Edn:  gam 

l07*lLyma  Henweu  y  pedwar  brenhin  ar  hygeint  o  vrenhinedd 
ynys  brydein  or  hat  a  varnwyd  yn  gadarnaf :  ac  yn  lorolaf  SfC. 

Bi'uttus  ap  silius  ap  esganM*  ap  etiias  ysgwyddwyn  .  .  .  ends  : 
Cadwaladr  vendigeid  a  vii  vrenhin  yriiis  brydein  xj  vlwyddyn  ...  Ac 
yna  y  kafas  y  saessou  oressgyn  yr  vnus  drosti  &c. 

112  Vymp  oes  byd :  A.  gwedii  gwneyth'  o  ddiiw  addaf  ac  efa  ei 
deliol  o  baradwys  megis  y  mae  yr  ysgrylh"^  ynny  ddangos  ir  ymgytnabu 
Addaf  ae  wreic  ac  hennillasant  blant  &c.  .  .  .  ILyma  mal  i  bu  y 
chwecbed  oes  ac  a  vydd  hyd  dydd  brawd. 

1 16  A  gwedii  marw  kynvelyn  y  bu  ynny  ol  ynteu  Gwydur : 
Gweirydd  &c.  Ac  oddyna  y  bu  or  saesson  yn  gyntaf  brenhin  coronavvo 
Ed/  bricht  &c. 

118  Plant  Brycban  Brycheinyawc  ap  Afallach  ap  Corinwc  &c. 

119  \_Bonedd  y  Seint']  Dewi  ap  sangk  ap  keredic  ap  kynedda 
wledic  a  nonn  verch  gynyr  o  gaer  gawch  ymyniw  i  vam  ....  ends  : 
Pcblic  sant  yn  y  gaer  yn  arfon  ap  maxen  wledic  o  Elen  V3  eiidaf  ap 
kariadawc  y  vam . 

122  Eitifeddion  yr  arglwydd  Rys  ap  Griffith  =  Gr:  /  Hys 
Gryc  ....  Howel  sais  arg:  kastell  gwis  a  thalacharn  a  sain 
kler  ....  Mred:  ddall  .  .  a  wisgwyd  ynn  vrawd  ynny  ty  gwyii 
ac  o  achos  hynny  y  Roes  yr  arg:  Eys  yr  ty  gwyn  y  tir  ynn  ystyrlwy 
a  II.  village!  gil  var  gera  ar  gwastadeii  yn  ystrad  tewi  ar  vaer  dref 
yngredigiawn 

124  Merched  yr  arg:  Rys :  tangv^ystl  &c. 

Ow:  ap  Madoc  vychan  ap  Mad:  Eiche  ap  Mad:  ap  Eydd):  &c. 


*  Pages  107-40  "  Haw  Lewys  Morganwc  sydd  yn  ctvlyn  medd  Ryi  Cain."— floft; 
Vuuj/han, 


G.  HIEAETHOG,  X,   MORGANNWG   ETC.  823 

126,  277  p.  Hen  gadwgan  ap  gv.  np  gwrgeneii  .  .  ap  golwg  koc]i 
0  liwel  =  Ho:  /  trahayarn  /  kadwgan  vychan  /  a  gr  :  tri  swllt  a  their 
ceinog  ocdd  brif  ivestva  pob  vn  o  honynt  ijmaenor  Llan  y  ddeu  Sanf . 

p.  kadwgan  goch  ap  Gr:  ap  kad:  =  Gr:  osgarkeiba  ho:  go}  &c. 

Gwenliwyfur  V3  Darhayarn  drahaus  a  vu  wreic  priod  y  Mad:  ap 
D.  ap  Ph:  ap  ti-ahayaru  oi-  kantrcf  raawi-. 

Mred:  ap  enion  .  .  .  ap  trah"  vawj'  ....  ap  elisse  argl:  bre- 
cheinoc:  yr  liwu  a  Ranuawdd  brecheinawc  yu  6  Ran:  ap  gwylwc  &c. 

127  Ho:  g03  ap  kadwgan  go3  ap  kadwgan  ap  gr:  &c. 

129  Tri  meib  kedifor  ap  gwyn  =  Bledri,  Hn  a  thrahaearn  &c. 

Ran  bledri  =  gwidigada  ac  elvesied  y  tri  thraj'au  .  llan  ddyfrwr  castell  coch 
ynn  talacharn  .  Pcnddiu  .  llan  deilo  .  aehaatref  wy  ar  peuryii  a  maenor  gein 
a  thir  koed  Kaff  ac  ystacbwl  oddyar  ddinbych  .  (2)  Ran  U'n  kymod  ystlwy  , 
(3)  Rann  trahaearn  o  ffovdd  gefeu  tref  lech  hyd  gefenflfordd  Uanwyuo 

Teir  beraj  y.  p.  —  Tryistan  ap  tallwch  &c. 
^euan  ap  einon  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  vap  gr:  gwliir  &c. 

130  Rif  candrefoedd  dehevbarth  =  xxviii 

(a)  vii  cantref  Dyfed.      (6)  vii  gantref   Seissillwc  =  iv  cantref 
kredigion   a  iii   cliantref  ystrad   tewi.      (c)  vii  gnntref  Rein   drein 
Rydd  ap  brychan  brycbieinoc  =  iii  cliantrfif  brycheiuoc  a  iii  chantref 
Rwng  gwy  a  hauren  a  chantref  bycllt.     {d)  vii  gantref  Morganwc. 
Ranniad  tir  gr:  ap  yr  argl:  Rys  argl:  Credicion  &c.  .  . 

132  Cantref  Byellt :  Rikert  ap  Einon  ap  Icynvric  ap  Meyric  &c. 
glyn  aeron :  Ryddercli   ap  J.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  voel  ap  gr: 

ap  ifor:  &C.  See  also  Pen.  MS.  133,  p.  93. 

Rys  diiy  ap  gr:  Raclaw  aberystwyth  &c. 

133  gr:  ap  jeuan  or  Ddol  vawr 

meibon  D.  ap  gr:  voel  =  gr:  hir  /  tarhayarn  lloid  /  gr:  wyddel  / 

Hn  llanvair  /  John  teclyn  /  D.  vongam  a  Ry.s. 
kaer  viedros :  D.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  Hn  voel  &c. 
yM>3  kerdin :  TLn  ap  gtm  lloid  ap  gim  [ap]  gr:  g03  &c.  MS.  133,  p.  90. 
U'n  voel  ap  moriddio  a  wnaeth  y  plas  ya  Uwyn  Dd:  gj'ntaf 

134  Mefenydd :  kadwgan  o  garoc  ap  kad:  vychan  &c.     MS.  133,  p.  98. 

135  Raniad  Poicys :  kynttaf  dju  o  ytyfeddion  brochwel  sgyth- 
rawc  a  veddianodd  arglwyddiaeth  bowys  /  vu  vleddyn  ap  kynvyn 
agen  a  briodes  V5  Wm:  ap  blaidd  rydd  or  gest  <%c.  .  .  .  owen  Icyfeiloc 
yr  a  .  .  anseilodd  myna3loc  ystrad  marcliel.  ac  a  briodes  wenllian  u3 
Owein  gwynedd  ac  yddynt  y  bu  vab  a  elwyd  gwenbwynwyn  :  ac  y 
owein  y  bii  vab  arall  a  elvvid  Maleri  o  gariadwreic  yr  hwn  a  gafas  ynn 
gynwys  iddaw  swydd  lanerch  hydol  a  briiannierth     (p-  138)     &c.  &c. 

141  Korwen  :  Edm:  Mevric  D.C.L.  arcbiagon  Bangor  &c. 

142  Glynn  nedd :  Rys  ap  J.  ap  Rys  ap  Jankin  &c. 

143  p.  Tudr  ap  gronvv  ap  Tudr  ap  Gronw  ap  Edw:  v'n  &c. 

149  p.  D.  vychan  ap  D.  lloid  =  vared,  Morvydd,  Gwirvyl  &c. 

Diiw  a  gattwo  henri  vrenhin     Poed     gwir 
Y  bettws  :  J.  ap  J.  ap.  R.  lloyd 

150  „  D.  ap  Itn  ap  f.  ap  Hn  &c. 

152  Hanmer :  Edw:  lloyd  ap  siasbar  ap  to:  &c. 

153  To:  ap  Morgan  ap  Ow:  ap  Mred:  ap  Kissiart  &c. 
To:  ap  Gwallter  havart  ap  Jankyn  havart  &c. 

154  S.  ap  ho:  arg:  Taly  llyn  ap  gim  ap  to:  Ac. 

155  S.  ap  gim  ap  D.  ap  gtm  vychan  ap  ywain  &c. 
To:  ap  hari  ap  Rissiart  ap  .Jhon  &c. 

Hari  ap  Jhon  ap  henri  ap  gerallt  ap  ph:  ap  ").  &c. 

156  To:  ap  rrobert  ap  Ho:  ap  gronwy  ap  D.  ap  Seissyllt  &c. 
Rob:  Winston  ap  watkyn  winston  &c. 

y  98430.  L  L 


826  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  132. 

156  llwyth  y  deaniaid:  S.  ap  pli:  ap  J.  ap  ph:  ap  Jankin  &c. 

The  arms  oybostoc  o  sir  amwythic. 
15lr  Syr  Water  Herbert  ap  arg:  W.  iarll  penfro  &c. 
Givent :  Morgan  ap  1).  ap  gtm  ap  U.  ap  gim  &c. 
Glaii  wi/sc :  Wm;  ap  J.  ap  rroesser  ap  J.  ap  gtm  &c. 
Rob:  ap  Hobkyn  ap  Lo:  ap  to:  &c, 
158  D.  ap  gim  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  gim  ap  Jankin  &c. 
D.  ap  ho:  vychan  ap  rroeser  ap  J .  ap  gro:  &c. 
Sro  dorddyn  :  syr  Rissiart  vychan  ap  to:  vjchan  &c.* 
169*  Evas ;  To:  ap  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  gim  &c. 
R.  ap  hari  ap  J.  ap  benri  ap  gerallt  &c. 
Y pevtyn:  ]fevan  ap  gim  vychan  ap  ^.  ap  gim  &o. 

160  Brwynllys ;  Jankyn  havart  ap,To:  havart  hir  &c. 

161  Wm;  havart  or  Trallwng  ap  to:  ap  W:  &c. 
Aher  hodni :  tin  ap  morgan  ap  D.  gam  ap  iln  &c. 

162  Tomas  ap  Jankyn  ap  Mad:  ap  Richart  &c. 

tre  aher  hodni :  Edw:  ap  gim  ap  J.  ap  morgan  &c. 

163  Jhon  walby  ap  Jankyn  walbu  ap  Wm:  walbv  &c. 
Hopkvn  awbre  ap  Jankyn  awbre  ap  Morgan  A.  &c. 

164  Glan  loysc  :  S.  ap  Roesser  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  ph:  &c. 
Ho:  ap  morgan  orffcrrest  ap  Rys  ap  morgan  &c. 

165  Gim  ap  morgan  ap  R.  ap  ho:  ap  Y>.  &c. 

JL.  i  anhel :  Ho:  ap  gim  ap  ho:  ap  gim  dew  &c. 

167  The  descendants  o/Syr  T.  ap  Aron  marchog  o  gastell  ffwnmion 

168  ketheinoc — maenor  deilo :  p.  W.  vychan  ap  gtm  ap  to:  &c. 

169  Biithvn  :  Ric:  ap  J.  ajj  harri  ap  J.  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 

X.  gadoc :  To:  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &e.         .  1563  . 
171  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Jvor  [?  Ryd] 
173  IL.  gadoc:  Tho:  lloyd  ap  John  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  gr:  &c. 

syr  aron  ap  Rys  ap  bledri  latimer  ap  kadifor  &c. 
]  74  Ef  a  ddy waid  Rai  yn  ehevbarth  ac  yn  enwedic  lie  ir  ysgrifen- 
nodd  John  Wynn  vn  llawiawc  am  ywain  ap  bradwen  nad  yw  ef  yn 
dyfod  0  farchvdd  eithr  .  .  .  [o]  koel  godeboc  .  alternative  pedigrees 
of  kollwyn  &  gwaithvoed  are  also  given. 

176  ij.  gyndeyrn  :  hvw  lloyd  ap  tomas  lloyd  ap  Rob:  &c. 

177  Pen  mark  ymorganwc :  M'  Hvw  ap  gr:  ap  gron:  ap  ffor  hir 

178  Ystrad  ffin :  Rys  ap  Wm:  ap  tomas  goch  ap  tin  &c. 

179,  194  JPentre  Jevan :  M''  Owen  ap  syr  J.ames  ap  O.  &c. 

180,  193  Argl:  y  toivyn:  Jhon  ap  R.  ap  Rydd}  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

182  Mathias  bowen  a  briodes  dyddgv  vj  l3.  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  o  dre 
Jticert  ynghayach  ynghemais  &c. 

183  Yrrvddallt — rriwabon  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  Mad;  ap  J.  &c. 

184  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Tomas  Ryd  Also  pp.  1S7-90, 
186  Gwernan — A.  teifi:  Jankyn  ap  Siames  ap  gr:  &c. 

J.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  to:  &c. 

IL.  vynydd :  To:  ap  Rydd3  ap  ho:  ap  D.  &c. 

y  gilvach  wen  :  D.  ap  D.  ap  ho:  vychan  &c.  Also  p.  202. 

kelli  ladron — IL.  llyfni :  Gr:  Uwyd  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 
191  Ric:  escob  Deivi  ap  D.  ap  gron:  Acf  [1561-81] 

195  Pihton :  W  W.  Ph:  ap  J.  Ph:  ap  syr  To:  &c. 

Brychenioc  :  J,  ap  James  ap  gr:  &c.  Cf.  p.  136. 

*  Kopi  0  lyfr  Morgan  elfel\i>.  159  top  margin)— ji  7  dolen  hyn  [  =  py.  4S3-66] 
a  ysgriveneis  i  o  lyfr  or  e.iddo  vwgan  elfel  o  law  leuan  ap  Hvw  kae  llwyd 
(p.  158  bottom  margin).     [G. //.I 

t  Ends  with  a  reference  to  llyfr  J.  brechva  =  Vs:n.  MS.  131.  p.  139  &c. 


a.  HIRAETHOG,  L.  MORGANNWG  ETC.  827 

]  96  y  Tiilgwijn ;  J.  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr;  &c, 
JL.  gathen  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  gim  ap  to:  &c. 
J7^.  deilo :  J.  llwyd  ap  Rydd}  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 
IL.  nrthne :  Jankyii  ap  D.  ap  John  ap  gim  &c. 

197  JL.  ddaroc :  D.  ap  henri  ap  siankiii  ap  heiiri  &c. 
E,.  llowddoc :  D,  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  R.  &c. 

y  dref  neivydd ;  M'  gr:  ap  M'^  II.  ap  syi-  Gr:  ap  syr  R.  ap  To:  &c. 
trym  saran :  D.  vyclian  ap  ho:  v'u  ap  Jankin  &c. 

198  -ZL.  gyndeyrn — helli  gadrod :  H.  llwyd  ap  To:  ap  Rob:  Ac. 
Glan  gwendraeth — y  glynn  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c, 

199  bryn  y  groes :  O.  ap  siankia  ap  D.  ap  Wm:  &c. 
hodlicsgmm  :  Hari  morgan  ap  Win:  morgan  &c. 
JL.  gyndeyrn  :  To:  Morgan  ap  Wm:  Morgan  &c. 

200  JLech  Dzvnni:  Morys  ap  Rys  ap  morys  ap  O.  &c. 
Rydodyn  ;  D.  ap  ho:  ap  morgan  v'n  &c. 

201  JLwyn  howel :  Rydd}  ap  E.  vychan  ap  gim  &c. 
glan  brann  :  Rydd}  gwynn  ap  D.  ap  Rudds  &c. 
JL.  gadoc :  ssion  ap  Morgan  ap  J.  awbre  &c. 

202  kastell  hotcel :  To:  ap  D.  ap  ttn  llwyd  &c. 

203  Tal  y  sarn  :  Huw  ap  ttn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

204  JL.  ddioy :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  siankin  .  .  ap  R.  g03  or  krevddyn. 
penpryn  :  Lewys  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

205  hoedmor — hastell  kef  ail :  Sion  mortimer  ap  siams  M.  &c. 
karroc :  Reinalll  ap  siankin  llwyd  ap  morgan  &c. 

Aber  maed :  J.  llwyd  ap  lewys  ap  Hn  v'n  &c. 

206  Y krevddyn :  D.  llwyd  ap  Morys  ap  siankin  &c. 
glan  leri :  S.  v'n  ap  Rydd5  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  or  Towyn 

206,  217  gogerddan  :  J.  ap  Ric:  ap  R.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Rydd} 

212  JL.  smoyl :  J.  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  Rys  .  .  .  .  o  rydodyn 

214  lliuyn  Jerwerth :  Watgyn  ap  to:  ap  R.  ap  lewys  &c.  Also  p.  2U 

219  JL.  Edi;  Wm:  ap  henri  ap  ]ankin  &c, 

JL.  dvdiDc ;  Wm:  )ankyn  ap  hopgyn  ap  Wm;  &c. 

Sir  vynytv  plwyf  devtna  y  penntref  bach  :  W.  Morgan  ap  J. 

220  JL.  Gefelach  :  D.  ap  hopgyn  ap  torn:  &c. 

JL.  )ssawel :  M""  prys  lleission  ap  R.  ap  jf.  &c. 

221  sain  hennydd,  y  vann :  To:  lewys  ap  Edw:  ap  lewys  &c, 
tain  dondwyd :  syr  Tom  ystradlin  ap  syr  Edw:  &c. 
sain  tilari  y  bewpvr :  Wm:  bassed  ap  W.  B.  &c. 

222  -E.  gaticc  :  W.  ap  hopgyn  wynn  ap  W.  ap  to:  &c. 
Aranell,  aber  givili  :  R.  ap  to;  ap  lewys  &e. 

223  Pen  mark  y  JRwssywr  plus  :  livw  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c, 
225  p.  gibwn  o  Julian  Raglan  =  gr:  /to  :  /  &c. 

227  iL.  Udi :  Syr  tomas  persson  IL.  Edi 

228  Ystrad  ffin:  Rys  ap  W.  ap  To:  goch  &c. 
231   Table  of  the  descendants  of  Jankyn  hanmer 

282  Dolgellav :  J.  Wynn  /  hvw/Edw:  g3  &c.  =  p.  Lewys  ap  O. 

234  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Gr:  ap  Rys  &e. 

235  Malltraeth  :  Wm:  wd  ap  J.  wd  &c.  1520-1564 

237  Yn  trigo  ymhenwyn  llys  y  tir  yn  llan  gristiolys  y  llyswen  ; 

D.  ap  mathe  ap  tin  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

238  JL.  veirian :  D.  ap  grono  ap  tudr  &c. 

Forth  ami  ymon  :  Rob:  bokle  ap  W.  bwkle  &c. 

239  Malltraeth,  Bodeon  .  156/f  .  p.  O.  ap  Hvw  =  Hvw  aned  1547  &c. 

240  Malltraeth — tre  veilir:  p.  O.  ap  J.  ap  R.  =  J.  aned  1552  &c. 

241  „         p.  R   ap  J.  ap  iln  =  J. /Owen/ Rolant  &c. 
Malltraeth :  Gr:  ap  eilian  ap  Rys  ap  J.  &c. 

„  syr  Rich:  Elian  a  To;  =  meib  Rol:  ap  gim  &c. 

LL  2 


828  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  132. 

243  The  descendants  of  Sandcle  ap  kariadoc  and  o/kyn;  ap  rriwallon 

244  Brochtvn  :  Jhon  Brochtvn  ap  Rondl  ap  ^er:  goch  &c. 

246  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Tudr  ap  gro:  (o  benllyn) 

247  Z)3(^?-2/«  TOyjc ;  W.  awbrai  ap  liopkyn  ....  ap  kwnstabl  koch 

250  Ji.  mabwi/nion — Gli/nn  aeron  :  Eys  gwynn  apD.  lloyd  &c.  1570 

251  Maelor :  Jankyn  mortyn  ap  J.  ap  ^thel  &c. 

252  „        To:  ap  morgan  ap  D.  ap  R.  &c.* 
"53         „        herlys :  Edw:  herlys  ap  J.  herlys  &c. 

TL.  orthre  :  Jankin  ap  I),  ap  sion  &c. 

254  K,.  egwad ;  W:  ap  sion  ap  .  .  .  ddu  &c. 

sir  gaer  yn  arfon—y  pant  glas  :  p.  To:  vychan  ap  Rob:  &c. 

255  &  242   Twr  keltjn  :   \Nm:  llechoc  ap  Hn  ap  Tudr  &c. 
amlwch  .-  Hn  ap  D.  ap  Icyn:  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

„  Tudr  ap  Tudr  ap  ftn  ap  ]feuan  &c. 

256  Twr  kehjn—bod  afon :  W.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Jer:  &c. 
amlwch — terogoc :  R.  ap  D.  ap  Jei:  ap  D.  wyn  &c. 
bodafan  :  Hvw  /  Wm:  =  meib  Hari  ap  ho  ap  D.  &c. 
IL.  Elian  :  Tudr  ap  D.  ap  person  ap  f  er:  &o. 

257  JL.  dyfrydoc — kaer  gynogydd :  To;  ap  ho:  ap  gro  :  &c. 
Twrkelyn — lal  y  llyn  :  Reinallt  ap  W.  ap  Tudr  &c. 
Bodafon — Mj.  vihangel:  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

„         ifn  ap  Tudr  ap  hoi  ap  kyn:  ap  D.  &c. 

258  Sandde  /  ^ddon  /  arthen  =  meib  Itadrod  hardd  ap  gwerydr  &c. 
W.  glyn  esgob  bangor  doctor  o  ddefein  &c. 

D.  hlwyd :  Rob:  tyrbrits  ap  J.  tyrbrits  &c. 

259  Twr  kelyn  llys  dvlas :  Jhon  ap  Wm:  ap  J.  ap  tudr  &c. 
IL.  gefni :  syr  livw  main  ap  syr  kyn:  &e. 

2G0  k.  tindaethwy — K,.  bedr  yn  ymyl  Traeth  koch— plus  grontey  .- 
Gronwy  ap  D.  v'n  &c. 

26 1  hymwd  Twr  hehelyn :  D.  ap  Eys  ap  D.  ap  Gim  &c. 

262  Merched  gr:  ap  Mad:  cloddaith :  Mallt  g.  kwnws  ap  D.  &c.t 

263  Table  of  the  desc=  of  Henri  ffoxob  and  Henri  Rosyndal 

264  „  syr  W.  Thomas  and  Gwladus  V5  D.  gam. 

265  Y  ddwy  gynlleth — tre  rriwlas  vwych  moel  wylfor  :  p.  ftn  ap 

J.  =  To:  llwyd  /  J.  /  Edw:  /  katrin  &c. 
rriwlas  is  y  voel :  Edw:  ap  To:  ap  R.  ap  gutyn  &c. 
Table  of  the  descendants  of  Gut3'n  ap  Gr: 

266  JPen  pont  Richart :  Ric:  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  goch  &c. 

267  ire  rriwlas  :  D.  a  morys  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  bach  &c. 
T'ont  y  meibion:  Jhon  ap  Edn:  ap  Jev: 

268  JL.  gydwaladr :  Jhon  ap  D.  brodur  Edw:  ap  tomas  &c. 
mam  To:  awbre  =  gweullian  V3  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

269  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  Gr:  down  to  iS6^  . 

270  „  „  Mad:  llwyd 
273  p.  Morvs  0  wenhwyvar  =  livw  morys  &c. 

p.  D.  ap  lewys  sele  &c.  &c. 
275  W.  Hobi  ap  Ric:  Hobi  ap  W.  hobi  &c4 

277  Table  of  the  descendants  o/Kadwgan  hen  see  p.  126  supra. 

278  „  „  Rowling  Salbri  o  Hwrtwn     156 1, 

280  „  „  Henri  Rosyndal  down  to  1663. 

281  „  „  ]fthel  anwyl 

282  „  „  Elidirddv 

Ej.  gadoc  :  To:  lloyd  ap  J.  ap  D.  lloyd  &c.  fV.  E,. 

*  llyfr  Ed:  ap  Roser  =  FeTi.  MS.  128.  f  9  !/  llyfr  ynrrefeilir  ymon.  • 

J  per  me  Morgan  Elvel — if  this  means  in  the  nntoffvnph  of  Morgan  Elyel,  his 
■writing  cSs  hardly  be  distinguished  from  that  of  Gr;  Iliraethog. 


<S.  HIBAETHOCt,  W.  LLYU  ETC.  829 

283  Kegidva  ymhoioys :  Hvw  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  matlie  &c, 
his  maternal  ancestry  and  arms 

293  Mam  Jaiikin  ap  pli:  =  gweiillian  v}  syr  Jolin  nores 

294  Wm:  wgon  ap  morys  wgon  ap  Kic:  wgon  &c. 

296  Iwety :  Robert  gamaets  ap  syr  To:  G.  ap  Morgan  (r.  &c. 

296  Trefy  Twr  .-  krystor  vaclian  ap  Hari  vachan  &c. 

297  &  316  John  Wgon  ap  Ric:  w.  ap  syr  J.  w.  ap  sjt  J.  w.  &c, 
303  Krevddyn — K.  afon  y  trowsgoed  ':  Morys  /  huw  /  D.  /  sian  / 

taugwystl  /  a  golav  =  plant  Ric:  ap  Morys  vachan  &c. 

305  Kelli  yfid  TL.  dyfodwg  :  liopgyn  ap  to:  ap  ph;  ap  ho:  &c. 

306  vwch  aeroti:  D.  ap  Jankin  lloyd  ap  Hn  Jtc. 

Tlr  gwyr  .<  p.  Tomas  ap  J.  gwynn  =  Rys  lloyd  /  J.  /  D.  &c. 

Brechfa  gothi :  Gr:  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  gr:  &c. 

JL.  fig  wad:   W.  ap  morgan  vachan  ap  morgan  ap  Rys  &c. 

307  syr  siorS  Mathav  ap  syr  W.  M.  ap  T.  M.  ap  D.  ap  Mathau  hen 

310  syr  To:  ystradlin  ap  syr  Edw:  ystrndling  ap  To:  ap  syr  Hari  &c. 

311  Kastell  Ho:  ? — p.  ftn  ap  gtm  lloyd  ap  gim  &c. 
p.  T.  ap  Rydderch  ap  T.  ap  ho:  vachan  &c. 

is  herdin :  p.  helfawr  ap  R.  ap  To: 

haer  icedros :  p.  watgyn  ap  R.   vachan  =  To:  /D.  &c. 

312  John  Mortimer  ap  Jamys  Mortimer  &c.* 
315  syr  si(.'rs  herbert  ap  Ric:     #  #  #  * 

318  Abcr  marlais :  syr  Ilari  sions  ap  syr  To:  ap  sion  kc. 

319  p.  Gr:  ap  nikolas  o  sian  .  .  .  .  o  gilfach  wen| 

321  Tho:  vachan  ap  water  [vachan]  ap  syr  Ricliart  &c. 

324  Descendants  of  Jankin  lloyd  &c. 

325  *  »  #  Mam  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Einion  =  gwenllian  &c. 

327  *  *  *  Mam  Rys  ap  Thomas  =  margred  v}  Icwys  ap  To:  itc. 
330  *  *  «  Mam  Gr:  ap  Rys  =  gwenllian  V3  ^.  lloyd  &c. 
334  *  *  *  Mam  Morgan  ap  Hn  ap  Jfor  =  angharad  &c. 


MS,  133  =  Hen.  109.  Pedigrees,  chiefly  of  South  Wales  families, 
in  the  autograph,  for  the  most  part,  of  Gr:  Hiraethog  (p.  21),  wilh' 
an  Index  in  the  hand  of  his  disciple  W.  SJjn.     Paper  ;  inches; 

210  pages  ;  compiled  and  mostly  written  before  the  clos3  of  1550  ;  half 
hound. 

1  Treiglais  ?  trafeyliais  trwy  fannav  or  byd  &c.  Tiidvr  Aled 

b.  nid  tebic  ofric  hyd  fraidd  swydd  ddinbych  &c.  Dd:  ap  ho'l 

3  Dwy  fercb  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

5  Index  to  proper  uames  in  the  autograph    of  W.  Llyn,   cmlins;  i\ith  the 
statement  :  — Llyina  lyfv  w'diam  Uem  a  yaijrivennodd  /  G  J  II  j  peiititvdd 
•22  JL.  gadoc:  (a)  tomas  lloyd  or  ty  ap  John 

(6)  llewys  lloyd  ap  dd :  ap  gr:  ap  John  ap  kaJ  :  &c. 
25  TL.  gadoc  :  John  ap  lewys  ap  John  &c. 

liopi  0  gard  aicnaelh  Tomas  John  o  drefgaron  i  lewys  ap  Griiff  o  L.  gadoc 

29'  (Pengwern)  :'T.  [Mostyu]  a  pirs  p.  Ric:  ap  ho:  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 
32  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Madoc,  Rioth  ap  Rob:  ap  ^er:  &c. 

34  ■     ,,  ,  „  Hn  ap  Roger  mortimer  ap  EJm:  Ac.' 

35  „  ,,  Rys  sais 

*  Hynn  a  gad  yn  llyfr  hen  o  laio  gultjn  owain  yr  hwn  oedd  eiddo  To:  Esgtb 
llann  Elwy  (p.  313).  Whether  this  statement  applies  to  pp,  312-3  only,  or  to  pages 
303-13  is  not  clear. 

t  0  Lyfr  I  G.  /■  n  [iraethoc] .     (p.  320.) 


830  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT  13^, 

36  V  merclicd  tiriol  R.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  .  .  o  vodidris  a  11.  veryi 
Barivn  koetmor — Eich:  moitmer  ap  0.  mortmer  &c. 

37  Dref  neii'ydd :  p.  ac  wyrion  gr:  ap  nikolas 

42  Y  tray  an — C.  oswallt :  Ed:  a  J.  melb  ho:  ap  engn:  goch  &c. 
D.  holbais  ap  f .  goch  ap  D.  ap  jfer:  &c. 

43  Trayan  :  D.  ap  engn:  ap  madoc  koch  &c. 

D.  ap  engn:  ap  edn:  ap  eign  &c. 
Tomas  ap  D.  ap  tomas  &c.*        , 

44  p.  Gr:  ap  Jtn  voethvs=R.  a  Jhon,  sioned  (g.  Nicolas  ap  ph:)  &c, 

45  Tref  gastell — is  hynen  .  p.  J.  Uwyd  ap  gr:  llwj'd  &c. 

46  „  „  Lewys  ap  Morgan  vychan  &c. 
Glan  tyivi :  lewys  ap  Jankyn  ap  f euan  .  .  .  .  o  garoc 

47  Hirfryn :  Mred:  bwl  ap  gwallter  .  .  o  aber  krychan 

IL.  v'el  aber  bythych  vwch  ryd  arwer  :  Mred  bwl  ap  D.  ddv  &c. 
IL.  dybie — hilyrychen :  Mred:  bwl  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  &c. 
IL.  ddaroc ;  hoesgin  ap  ^.  ap  Mred:  bwl  ap  mred:  ap  ho:  &c. 

48  kefn  kethin,  IL.  deilo :  Ho:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  ph:  voel  &c. 

IL.  dybie—  grqfft  y  Itoch — meddyfnych  :  D.  ap  J.  gwyn  &c. 

49  IL.  V'l  A.  bythych — kefn  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  morgan  &c. 

60  Mallaen — Uioyn  ho: — IL.  ymddyfri  :  Rydderch  ap  R.  vychan 

61  IL.  ymddyfri — A.  krychan:  D.  gwyn  ap  ho:  ap  Rydd:  &c. 

„  Vstrad  gilerchan  :  Rydd:  gwyn  ap  D.  goch  &c, 

62  IL,  nrthne,  tre  vwch  gwino[n\  -.  J.  ap  ^.  ap  Gtm.  &c. 
53  IL.  wrda :  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  to:  ap  Gr:  ap  nikolas  &c. 

IL.  ymddyfri:  Einion  ap  R.  ap  Kinion  ap  Glm  gwyn  &c. 
IL.  gathen  :  Harri  ap  Rys  ap  D.  hir  &c. 
64  y  dryslCyn  :  p.  D.  wilim  Jhon 

55  IL.  Deilo — y  ivern  gib :  Jhon  ap  hari  ap  Rydd;  &c. 
IL.  dy  bie :  Wm:  ap  ph:  ap  wm:  ap  J.  dv  &c. 

56  -ffi.  Ddaroc,  llethr  llystyn :  D.  ap  henri  ap  jankyn  ap  benri  <fcc. 
67  Crwyr  IL.  edi :  Rys  ap  Gwlliaved  ap  einion  ap  llowarch  &c. 

61  Ach  gwraic  ddiioaethaf  Gr:  Dwnn :  Meddefvs  vj  Gr:  &c. 

62  ?  vwch  aeron :  Tomas  ap  Jhon  ap  Gtm  ap  ").  &c. 

kastell  llwchwr  arfelin  ym  hen  yvoda:  T.  llwyd  ap  morgan  &c. 

63  Peny  hoed  the  abay  of  Lan  tcrnam  manachloc  ddvonk**  :  A 
Rcvflbrance  y'  y"  prince  of  Swth  Wals  namyd  R.  np  Gr:  ap  R.  &c.| 

64  'hydweli,  bryn  y  groes  yn  II.  elli :  jankyn  ap  D.  ap  W.  ap  ho: 

65  i£.  genych :  ]\[orys  ap  O.  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

66  IL.  (jadoc  :  To:  ap  gnallter  vychan  ap  morgan  &c. 
IL.  dybie — hefn  y  derwydd :  ho'l  bedo  ap  D.  y  gof 

67  IT.,,  egtcad — y  kefncoed :  Wm:  ap  morgan  vychan  &c. 
Mortyn :  plant  Roger  kiuast  ap  M''  Wmffre  &c. 

68  Riant  to:  ap  Hn  ap  O.  ap  mred:  =  Mred:  Ac. 
IL.  Deilo :  Gwraic  Tho:  holant  =  angharad  &c. 

69  Tir  gu-yr  /  h.  Ivdd,  owld  baeli:  O.  a  D.  gwyn=p.  morg:  ap  "j. 

71  Dinbych  :  p.  Tomas  lochwr  o  vawd  vj  R.  ap  Wm;  o  Drcflech 

Hari  bared  ap  Wm:  bared  &c. 

72  penbref,  y  plus  llethr  ychenn  :  W.  ap  ho:  ap  jfankyn  v'n  &c. 

74  haertcys:  Owen  \arier  ap  Ric:  varier  &c. 

Paen  Iwrbervil  arg:  y  Iwety  . 

75  p.  syr  hari  wgon  o  varged  vj  syr  Wm:  tomas  Ac. 
p.  J.  wgon  liir  o  vawd  Idement  &c. 


*  I.ilier  lllc!  himffoith. 

I  Libtr  liugh  lip  tomas  np  llobeft  o  lan  gjudejrn. 


GRIFFITH  HIKAETHOG.  831 

79  kt/diceli — fftan  gwendraelh  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 

y  plus  gwyn  yn  JL.  gymwr  ar  plas  gwyn  yn  llan  gan  heiddon, 

]i.  kydweli :  plant  Jaukyn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  R.  .  1556  . 
pen  harec  :  p.  Ph:  ap  Einiou  ap  Mrtd:  &c.  Seep.  110. 

Trahayarn  o  rydodyn  yngliayo  ap  hoedliw  &c. 

80  If^.  badarn  vawr — pennyherth  :  morclied  Mred:  ap  Itn  &c. 

81  karnnyllon — llan  on :  Gr:  ap  Rydd:  ap  J.  ap  Wm:  &c. 
IL.  arthne :  D.  ap  J.  ap  liari  ap  ^.  &c. 

82  is  henen — y  hetios :  D.  ap  gtm  ap  Jankyn  ap  ^.  gwyn  &c. 
JLethr  kathan — IL,  gallien :  I),  ap  J.  ap  GTm  ap  to:  &c. 

83  Abermarlais :  syr  tomas  ap  J.  ap  to:  ap  gr:  ap  iiicolas  &c. 

84  Ki.  arthne — tref  vwch  gwiiwn — plas  yn  y  Ro  :  Jheukyn  &c. 

85  gwidagada  ac  elfed  Dyffryn  konoc — IL.  llawddoc :  Gr:  ap  R.  &c. 

87  A.  vyrddin :  Gr:  Dwim  ap  Tomas  dwnn  ap  Jaukyn  d.  &c. 

„  Gr:  liigwn  ap  hvw  liigwu  &c. 

88  Maenor  gain,  kastell  mod :  Eysrydap  niklas  r.  .  .  np  T.  r.  vstvs. 

89  kayo — II.  yssawel:  Morgan  ap  to:  ap  Morg:  vychan  etc. 
Itarnwyllon — IL.  nonn :  Uowarcli,  ho:  a  Gr:  =  p.  Rydd:  ap  J.  &c. 

90  Kelli  rodyn  ynglan  hwm  wili:  p.  lio:  ap  Ryddercli:  &c. 

91  IL.  Edi — ynijs  llychwr  :  Wm:  ap  lienri  ap  )ankyn  &c. 

Ymot  ymJdwyf  IT.,,  yslyffan   y  trveddesse  tre  wilkoc :  merched 
wilkoc  kriadoc  &c. 

92  IL.  deilo  tal  y  bont — lladre  mar :  W.  ap  morgan  ap  R.  llwyd  &c. 
99  Js  Kerddin :  "j.  ap  ftn  ap  dd:  o  gorws  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 

100  Dd:  bol  ap  Gtm  ap  Gim  ap  R.  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 
IL.  llyr :  Hvw  ap  itn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  itn  &c.* 

101  Gwidi  gada :  merched  Henrri  ap  gtm  ap  To:  v'n. 

103  Mastr  J.  Talai  siawnsler  mynyiv,  person  kaeryw,  arberth,  llan 

ai  haden  a  ffenhris  a  II.  ddaroc,  mab  ]f,  llwyd  ap  ^.  &c. 
105  IL.  gathen :  lleision  ap  O.  ap  Wm:  ap  rrys 

John  y  glyn  brawd  vndad  D.  abad  y  glyn  ap  ^f.  ap  D.  &c. 
The  greater   part   of  the  contents  of  pages    106-11 4f   are  copied  from 
Pen.  MS.  131,  pages  240-3,  280-6,  q.  v. 
108   Vivch  aeroH :  p.  f.  ap  Rys  go;  ap  J.  ap  R.  &c. 
110  Gr:  karon  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  &c. 

Gronwy  ap  morgenav  ap  idgwyn  &c. 
112  kyfeilioc  :  kad:  ap  itn  ap  griffri  ap  phy:  &c. 
„  (2)  J.  ap  kadifor  ap  ithel  &c. 

Mechain  :  John  ap  mathe  ac  Edw:  i  frawd  or  Drewen 
115  gwyr  ky dwell  a  llwyd  gaer  :  0.  mikar  11.  ysmael  ap  Gwallter  &c. 
117  Kydweli :  p.  Ho:  ap  Gwallter  ap  gr:  ap  ^.  vychan  &c. 
121  Arg:  thomas  prior  haer  vyrddin  mab  Morys  ap  O.  ap  Einon  &c. 
123   Gwyr :  Gr:  ap  ,J.  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  melyn  &c. 
126  Gicernan  :  Maistr  Hvw  ai  frodur  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  To:  &c. 
128  IL.  dybia  :  syr  J.  Gwyn  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  henri  &c. 

130  Bvellt :  rrikert  ap  anion  ap  gr;  ap  Rikert  &c. 

131  Aber  teifi :  ]ankyn  ap  Gr:  ap  Gwilim  ap  D.  &c. 
Bvellt :  Rickert  ap  Einion  ap  kyn:  ap  mevric  &c. 

,,         Rickert  ap  gr:  ap  kadwgan  ap  .  .  .  seissyllt  &c. 

Gwraic  Rickart  ap  Einon  oedd  verch  Einon  ap  Gwallter  .  .  .  vddynt  i 
bv  xij  mab  a  xij  merch  a  phob  vn  o  honynt  ar  naill  llygad  yn  ddv  ar 
Hall  yn  las 

Y  Seissyllt  i  bv  iiij  maib— y  Rhwng  y  Rhain  i  Rhanwyd  bvellt  .  . 
i  adam  swydd  ddinan  .  ).  Euftydd  is  irvon  .  "]  ho:  llys  petm  ac*  *  *  i 
ph:  swydd  dreflys  .  yn  Uyfr  lewys  mon 

»  Itais  ddwy  ddolen  olh  ol  yn  y  kopi  o  h/fr  Icwys  ap  Ed: 
f  val  I  i3  I  0  lyfr  Jcuau  j  b\_rechva']  j. 


832  PENIARTH  MANCJSCRrPT  133. 

132  hjdioeli:  Gr:  Dwnn  ap  0.  D.  ap  Rob:  D.  ap  gr: 

133  Bonedd  hy dwell  o  vrenhin  llivythav  dyfed* 

!>.  Gr:  ap  itii  ap  G-wrgant  =  kadwgan  fawr  &c. 
l-)0    Talgarth  :  Jhon  fain  aj)  to:  fain  ap  J.  ap  ^.  &c. 

141  Mam  lewys  Ryd  =  Elcu  V3  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  &c. 
Gwerfyl  mechain  V3  Ho:  ap  Mred:  ap  gr:  &c. 

llanylydd  gain  Jnjdweli  helli  gadrod :  hvw  ap  to:  ap  Rob.  &c, 

142  brycheinoc—Aber  kymvric  :  Wm:  aiobrai  ap  bopkyu  &c. 

143  kydweli,  plan  ymivdlws  gwm  :  W.  morgan,  arg:  11.  ddilo,  ap  hari 

„        llcchdwnni:  Morys  ap  R.  ap  morys  &c. 
14.5       „        twin  saran:  D.  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  fankyn  &c. 

IL.  gyndeyrn,  pen  plas  yn  y  glyn  :  D.  ll'd  ap  rrob:  ap  Gr. .  155I^. 
14G  kydweli  ac  yn  trigo  yn  ghaer  vyrddin:  J.  Vychan  ap  hvw  Vychan 

sgwier  o  gorffi  Harri  viii. 
147  IL.  edi — y  gelli  las :  Wm:  ap  henri  ap  ^faukyn  &c. 
•    148  Bryn  y  beirdd  yngharec  kynen:  J.  ap  Morys  ap  0.  &c. 

149  rryd  arioenn :  Gr:  ap  henrri  vychan  ap  ho:  &c,     Cf.  p.  47,  supra. 
■    150  JL.  ddaroc  :  D.  ap  henrri  ap  Jankyn  &c. 
mivdlwsgwm  :  p.  hari  morgan  &c. 

151  IL.  nonn  :  D.  persson  ystradgynnlais  ap  gwallter  ap  J.  dew  &c. 

152  E..  gathen  :  W  J.  ap  henri  ap  R.  ap  J.  &c. 
h.  vyrddin:  M'  penrri  ap  morrys  &c. 

155  Mastr  Lewys  kantor  mynyw  ap  D.  ap  Rys  &c. 

157  IL.  dyfaeloc:  J.  ap  D.  ap  henri  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

159  Rvthvn:  A  description  of  the  arms  of  Thelwal,  Aesbwl, 
lamffort,  dons.  Deav^ :  wgon,  wganied,  syr  J.  Morgan,  Adam  o 
went,  Gwilim  vychau,  kornwal,  lleision  ap  morgan,  mem-ic  ap 
tewdric,  |estin  gwrgant,  penrrys  o  wyr,  0.  ap  J.,  Henri  Dwnn, 
Gr:  ap  kadifor,  Gr:  ap  Jankyn,  brochwel  ysgithroc 

161  A  description  of  the  arms  oj  Aron  ai  veibion  o  L.  gelynin, 
Rych:  Vychan  argl:  bleddfach  o  Vaes  yfed,  Gwiadus  V5  syr  D.  gam, 
Lewjs  ap  watgyn  o  gastell  paeu,  watgyn  arg:  hera-it,  lankyu  hop,  ttn 
avr  dorchog,  John  Holant,  Holant  o  Aber  konwy,  ho:  k.  Uion,  kyff 
gwyr'gwyrj;/  0.  gwynedd,  kyn:  sais,  Rob:  ap  m.red:  /  Edn:  vychan,  O. 
ap  mred:  /  ynyr  vychan§  /  Gwiiie  dav  frevddwyd,  Ric:  mytyn  argh 
mowddwy,  syr  D,  ap  Gr:  /brnint  hir,  llowarch  ap  bran,  Hwfa  ap 
kyndde,  Gwciydd  ap  R.  gocb,  Maeloc  krwm,  Nefydd  hardd,  Evnydd 
ap  gwcnigwy,  Jlad:  ap  Mred:  /  Tewdwr  mawr,  R.  ap  tewdwr,  Gr: 
luaelor,  tomas  o  lauerch  banna,  koUwyn  ap  EginirT[  /  Elystan  glod- 
rydd**  /  Eiuon  'ap  kriadoc,  Hwfa  ap  ^er:  /  D.  grawnd,  kadwgan  ap 
Elystan,  arg:  Wm:  berbert,  moriddic  warwyn,  kadifor  ap  dinawal, 
Gwaith  voed,  llowdden,  kariadoc  freichfras,  Syr  Gr:  ap  ho:  /  Gr: 
dwnn  o  gors  allgwn,  Syr  J.  ysgidmor,  Tomas  ryd  o  Roets  [=  Roach], 
Edw:  Ryd,  Gwion  ben  arw  o  swydd  aber  teiiif  |  /  Hn  ddv  ap  O.  o 
lau  gathen,  gr:  ap  nicoIas|J  /  ho:  ap  ]f.  arg:  arwystli,  Syr  J.  prys 
1550,  y  groeswea  yn  ymyl  hcnffordd,  Watkyn  ap  J.  hir  o  Ian  gors, 
watkyn  herberf. 

109  GKernan  :  Gr:  /  J.  /  a  Rydd}:  =  mcib  ho:  ap  D.  ap  To;  &c. 
ho:  vychau,  D.  a  Gr:  =  meib  Rys  ap  D.  ap  To:  &c. 
sir  G.  vyrddin  :  henri,  Hn,  a  W.  V'n  =  p.  gim  ap  T.  v'n 

*  T:iken  from  Jecan  Brechfa't  'book.     See  above,  MS.  181,  p.  250. 

f  /lopi  llyfr  lewys  ap  Ed: 

X  kept  0  lijfr  moriji  wijii  o  wedir 

§  medd  lliifr  arfe  liefor  g,  llufr  Mr  Hufi, 

'!  llyfr  arfe  trefir. 

"*  medd  llyfi'  syr  John  prjf, 

■f  j-  medd  lljfr  Gr:  Utvnn  ami  another  q  hen  hjft  LeWys  tip  Ed: 


GRIFFITH  HlHAEtHOG.  83  S 

169  Maesyfed:  ttn,  J.  ddv,  Gtm,  To:  vwyaf,  To.    v'n  a  gr:=meib 
Eys  ap  John  &c. 
Elvel :  J.  /  Quito  /  ho: /  a  D.  =  meib  ").  koch  ap  kadwgon  &c. 
„       Henrri,  kadwgon,  J.  /  Mred:  /  ac  Adam  =  meib  ").  v'n 
J  70       „       Gtm  goch,  morgan  koch,  a  J.  =  meib  R.  ap  D.  Ihvyd  &c. 
John  ap  J.  ap  ttn  ap  Phyl:  &c. 
Syr  Gr:  llwjd  ap  mred:  ap  mred:  ap  mevric  &c.* 
Yr  ynys  deriti :   VVm:  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr: 
Tre  r  hastell :  Morgan  ap  To;  Uwyd 

171  Glyn  tatiy  :  Trahayarn  tew  ap  morgan  ap  trahaearn 

172  Tal  y  llyii  llan  gaste :  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  gim  ap  To:  &c. 
llan  gnrs :  Wm:  ap  lewis  ap  gwatgyn  &c. 
brycheinioc  :  Trahayani  vychan  ap  tra:  tal  &c. 

173  Trer  tier  :  M''  Hari  vab  syr  to:  vychan  &c. 
ket/iedi .-  ho:  ap  Roesser  vychan  &c. 

174  II.  dyfaeloc  :  To:  ap  U.  ap  tomas  ap  Gim  ap  (o:  &c. 

175  p.  syr  R.  herbert  a  las  ymanbri  =  syr  Wm:  o  golbrwk  &c. 

177  Pen  Itarec:  0.  ap  Wm:  ap  'Jaukin  ap  Eys  &c. 

Aber  gwili :  I).  f  J.  /  J.  lloyd  a  W.  a  tho:  =  meib  R.  ap  Rob: 
Givent :  syr  water  herber  a   vv  varw  yny  kastell  newydd  ar 
wysc     .     1550 . 

178  M*  Wm:  Herbert  o  golbrwc  ap  E,  Herbert  o  efenni  &c. 
y  kwrt  yn  yffryn  icysc :  J.  ap  To:  ap  J.  ap  To:  &c. 

179  Park  letisynghm  wysc  :  Ric:  ap  Wni:ap  ftn  ap  morgan  v'n&c. 
k.  llion  ar  icyse  :  Ow:  wann  arg:  k.  llion  ap  Gr:  ap  ]fcr:  &c. 

y  bont  vaen  ymorgamvc  :  J.  R.  ap  R.  brechenoc  ap  R.  &c. 
GWENLLWC,  pp.  180-6. 

180  Y  Gelli  ber  plwy  maeren  :  J.  ap  R.  ap  Ph:  np  Roesser  &c. 
tredegtjr  ymassalec  :  Wm:  ap  J.  ap  syr  morgan  &c.  .   1550  . 

181  Gwern  y   hlepa   ymassalec    (heddiw  1550)  :    Ph:    ap  Wm:    ap 

morgan  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  Tomas  ap  Jvor  hael  ap  Hn  ap 
ivor  ap  bledri  bven:  dyfed 
IL.  leirwc  :  D.  ap  Morgan  ap  ho:  ap  Jhankyn  &c. 

182  y  ty  pe7iaf  or  /tymissiaid :  J.  kemais  or  began  ap  J.  K.  &c. 
IL.  leiricc :  Rolant  kemais  ap  J.  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

^83  „  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  itn  J.  gwynn 

Maeryn,  Henkwrt  rriw  r  perre :  To:  ap  Lewys  ap  T,  np  ttn  v"u 

1 54  Pen  karn  :  W.  ap  J.  ap  morgan  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

Y kastell  neimjdd:  J.  ap  Hari  kemais  ap  W.  or  bewail. 

155  „  „         y  krin  dai :  J.  ap  To:  ap  Edw:  np  ho:  <&c. 
Y  maes  glas  -.  To:  kemais  ap  Morgan  k.  &c. 

187  Glyn  nedd:  R.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  Jenkyn  &c. 

1 88  Tre  gawntyilo  ymerthyr  mawr :  merched  Hopkyn  ap  ho:  v'n  &c.f 

189  Morganicc:  Gwraic  D.  Mathe  ben  =  wenllian  &c.| 
kywaeth  mred:  machcn  :  M^'  Rol:  morgan  ap  To:  &ii. 

!)  „       modwellty :  Bn  ap  morgan  ap  Roesser  Ac. 

190  Bryn  bvga  ;  Roger  Wms:  ap  W.  ap  J.  ysgolhaic  ap  ftiij 

191  Givent  is  koed :  syr  To:  morgan  o  benn  y  koed  (2)  11.  ystarn. 

(3)  11.  ddeinel  &e.  ^  \  J      i  , 

Givent  is  h.  — sain  breid :  lewys  ysgidmor  ap  Ric:  &c. 
,)  „  „  W,  ap  morgan  ap  rroboned 

192  Sainghenydd  :  Edw:  ap  Lewys  ap  Ric:  gwyn  &c.§ 

,,  iiefn  mabli :  D.  kemai,s  ap  J.  ap  Jhankyn  &c. 


*   Yr  vchod  (including  p.  1C9)  o  li/fr  si/r  ./uhn  Pri/s  marchoy, 

t  Y»  llyfr  J  lion  R.  o  ti'cn  llwc  llaw  siams 

I  g  tomas  ap  Morgan  o  gaer  llion 

§  y"  "/'/'■  y  othro  Lewys  Morgan  nwc 


834  PENIARTH   MANtfSCRIPTS   133-134. 

193  Gwent — saint  pir  :  Hari  lewys  ap  jfords  [=  George]  lewys 
hefn  vinooc  :  W.  morgan  ap  J.  M.     .     .     .     o  L.  ystarn 
Pen  rros — G.  is  hoed:  To:  ap  W.  ap  watgyn  &c.* 

194  Aber  hodni :  Ph:  ap  J.  ap  Giro  ap  U.  Ac. 

195  Gwent  is  koed :  Ric:  mwr  ap  J.  mwr  ap  To:  mwr  &c. 

),  yslow  :  J.  kemais  ap  W.  K.  &c. 

„  II.  loern  :  antoni  wels* 

196  A  description  of  the  arms  of  Henrri  ap  To.  Vychaii,  elystan 

glodrydd,  Jtn  voethvs,  and  kadwgan  ap  Elystan 

197  Gwidi  gada — glann  y  lais:  merehed  Henri  ap  Giin  =  Eva 

gwraic  syr  Rj's  ap  Thomas 
Sainhenydd:  p.  dd:  ap  Ric:  wyn  o  anes  raawnsel 
trer  delyn  :  Watkyn  ac  ystifn  vychan  meib  Ric;  Vu 

198  Sainghenydd — Gelli  gaer :  Mathe  ap  Rys  V'n  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 

199  „  Jankyn  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  ap  ftn  &c. 

Wni:  ap  lewis  v'n  ap  syr  Roesser  v'u  hen  o  drer  twr. 

200  Merthvr  hynoc :  p.  Roesser  v'n  o  dalgarth  =  watkyn  a  J.  &c. 
iiy.  fi. — dyff'ryn  hamlais:  R.  ap  To:  ap  morgan  ap  J.  ap  hoesgin  &c. 

201  ,,        hodni — y  baeli  bach  :  D.    ap  gim  ap  To:  &c. 

Kjntrbf  Selyf 

202  hrynllys :  Roesser  havart  ap  laukyn  h.  ap  to:  h.  liir  Sic. 
TL.  dyvalle :  Roesser  v'n  ap  Roesser  ap  syr  Roesser  etc. 

203  Gwenddwr  (or  geirnoes) :  J.  aj)  Roesser  ap  ).  ap  ho:  &c. 
hruc  hadarn  :  J.  ap  glm  ap  J.  ajs  ho:  &c. 

Elfel 

204  Aber  Edwy  :  R.  ap  gim  ap  Sn  ap  mevric  &c. 

205  Maes  yfed — trcr  delyn :  To:  lewys  ap  hvw~ap  D.  &c. 
gwehelyth  A.  edwy :  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  Einion  klvd  &c. 

„  kadwgan  ap  gr:  ajj  ho:  sais  &c. 

2&,  tanffraid ;  Mred;  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  &c. 

206  A.  edwy .-  To:  ap  Rys  ap  gim  &c. 

IL.  vareth  :  Rhys  ap  Jhon  ap  y  bedo  &c, 
IL.  elwedd:  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  y  bedo  gwyn  &c. 
y  ddisserth :  D.  ap  lewys  gwyn  ap  D.  goch  <tc. 

207  i&.  voir  llethyfnwc :  J,  ap  ]ankyn  ap  D.  &c. 
Gwehelyth  maessyfed:  Ph:  ap  mevric  ap  ph:  ap  R.  &c. 
M.  yfed — trer  locn  :  Gr:  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  To:  &c. 
Elfel  is  mynydd:  jffor  hen  ap  fer:  ap  llowarch  &c.f 
Melienydd—llan  degle :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  mred:  v'n  &c. 

208  keri—plwyf  Gwern  ogof:  hvw  ap  J.  Uwyd  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  &c. 
210  Mam  raorys  v'n  ap  D.  ap  iin  &c4 

Swydd  dref  esgob — twr  y  mathe  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  llwyd  o 

ddev  ddwr  a  del  arddvn  ynghastell  yngliaer  einion  &c.  .  1550  . 


MS.  134  ==  Hen.  MS.  107.  PiiDiGEEES.  Paper  ;  about  8  X  o| 
inches ;' 476  pages  ;  1550-62;  half  bound. 

This  MS.  is  called  Llyvyr  maw  r  G  r  iffi  th  Hiraetho  c,'\a  whose  auto- 
Eiaph  the  bulk  of  the  work  is  written.  It  would  be  difficult  to  say  defiDitely  how 
much  Griffith  wrote  himself.  A  book  which  was  in  progress  for  many  years,  and  which 
was  written  with  different  pens  in  different  inks  and  temperatures,  would  naturaUy 
exhibit  a  variety  of  styles  of  writing.  But  there  are  unmistakable  pages  by 
other  writers.      The  index   (pp.  3-38)  u  by  Wm:  Ufn  ;  Simwut  Vychan  wrote 


*  yn  llyfr  yr  athro  Lcwyr  Morgannwc 

t  g.  morgan  elfel.  I  »•  llyfi  morgan  elfel 


LLYVYR  MAWR  G.   HIRAETHOdt.  835 

pages  49-53,  393-4,  and  portions  of  pages  45-6,  79,  91,  and  426;  pages  157-166, 
169,  170-1,  and  337  are  in  a  hand  dated  elsewhere  1561 ;  pages  107-116  ate  from 
another  pen ;  so  are  pp.  383-91,  381-2,  429-30,  &c.  &c.  Various  -n-ritcrs  have 
filled  in  various  items  on  spaces  left  originally  blank.  That  the  MS.  is  compiled 
from  several  previous  collections  of  pedigrees  the  references  in  the  body  of  the  work 
give  abundance  of  proof. 

3  Alphabetical  index  of  leading  proper  names  occurring  in  the  MS. 

39  Traws  vi/ni/dd — ^Rob:  Evans  or  gard  mab  hynaf  J.  ap  Robert. 

40  Tir  1/  mynaich :   Gr:  ap  D.  ap  1).  ap  gr: 

41  IL.  gedivyn  :  D.  Uwyd  ap  Owain  &c. 

42  Yr  wydd  gruc :  p.  gr:  ap  siankyn  =  S.  /  hvw  deon  VVestmestr  etc. 

43  Bangor — maelor  S. — Dd:  ap  Roger  ap  D.  Jankyn  &o. 

44  Plwyf  Hangmer :  D.  vychan  ap  D.  voel  ap  Ph:  ap  syr  Joba 
hoptyn  o  vaxfild  .  ,  .  D.  ap  Edmwnt,  ap  D.  Vychau  uchod,  penkerdd. 

Maelor :  Mad;  ap  itn  vycban  ap  itn 

„     G. — Tomas  ap  morgan  ap  D.  ap  E. 

45  ydeirnion  a  dinmel:  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  J,  ap  Hn  etc. 

46  Y  llai  ac  emral :  (syr)  Ed:  Pilstwn  ap  syr  Roger  F.  &c. 

48  Maelor  :  Elis  ap  Ric:  ap  ho:  ap  morgan  &c. 

49  Bangor — Maelor  S. — alchre :  Jlion  ap  Ed:  ap  Ho:  &c. 
b,  Maelor,  G. — John  Pidstwn  ap  John  ap  Mad:  &c. 

50  Maelor,  brynnbo  :  Edw:  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Mad;  &c. 

51  ,,     G. — Ho:  ap  gronw  ap  ]f.  ap  gronw  &c. 

52  ,,     S Tomas  Domok  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  domok  &c. 

54  „     S. — Evtyn  :  Wm:  Evtyn  ap  John  ap  Jams 

56  Riwabon :  Jhou  Uwyd  ap  Rondyl  ap  Jhon  &c. 

57  M.  G. — sotvnlli :  Rob:  wyn  ap  morgan  ap  Hn  &c. 
Maelor :  .Thon  ap  deikws  vongam  ap  mad:  &c. 
M.  S. — Jhon  hangmer  ap  'Jankyn  ap  syr  D.  &c. 

59  Owrtyn  :  D.  owrtyn  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  &c. 

60  Jev.  g05  ap  Edn:  ap  Mad:  ap  Gr:  ddv  &c. 

61  D.  ap  Ph;  ap  Mad:  ap  ^eu:  &c. 

62  Gr:  Evtyn  ap  D.  ap  itn  ap  Edn: 

69  Maelor :  Dd:  ap  iin  ap  Edn:  Uwyd  ap  ^er:  vychan  &.Q. 
trefalvn  :  plant  D.  ap  gr:  ap  ftn; — Wm:  /  jankyn  &c. 

70  Edelrnion  :  Mad:  or  hendwr  ap  ]fer:  ap  O.  brogevutyn  &c. 
y  tray  an :  plant  Ric:  ap  Jhon  trefor — J.  ac  aim 
nanhevdwy  :  plant  Roger  trevor — Ed:  /  J.  /  a  m.'irgred 
Jtroes  osioallt :  plant  Ric:  trefor  ap  Edw:  T.  ap  D.  &c. 

71  Tegaingl :  P.  ^euau  np  D.  ap  Ithel 

IL.  evrgain  :  Kyn;  hangmer  ap  syr  Ric:  hangmer  etc. 

72  ysheifioc  a  riancrch  :  Wm:  vycban  ap  ho;  ap  Jhon  &e. 
Rrvddlan  :  Hari  ap  Pirs  archiagon  IL.  elwy  ap  J.  konwy  etc. 

73  Rob:  /  J.  /  a  llevkv  p.  Ric:  ap  Mad:  ap  Hn:  ap  Edu:  etc. 

b.  Nan  hevdwy :  Jhon  trefor  a  Ric:  a  gwenhwyfarp.  Edw:  ap  D.  &c. 

74  Ytcavn  :  Jhon  Ed:  (ap  fer:)  ap  =feu:  ap  adda  &c. 
76  Dd:  Uwyd  ap  bleddyn  ap  gr:  ap  heilin  &c. 

yr  hob :  Mad:  ap  ^eu;  ap  mad:  ddv  ap  ^eu:  &c. 
79  Halchdvn.  Dd:  Uwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &c.  S.  V. 

85  y  doctor  owain  pwl  ap  D.  ychan  ap  D.  ap  adda  etc. 
Bros :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Hu  ap  tomas 

86  Sioydd  ddinbych  :  Rys  ap  ^thel  ap  gr:  ap  ]fthel  goeh  ap  kyn: 

ap  ]fer:  &c.     {2.)  Jolo  goeh  ap  ]fthel  goch  &c, 
b.  Hn  ap  tudr  ap  ^eii:  ap  gr:  &c. 
f.  D.  vychan  ap  D.  Uwyd  &c. 
88   Tegaingl :  Plant  mad;  ap  Hu  vychan  ap  Hu  ap  mad;  &c. 


»  Puges  49,  6-53  are  in  the  autograph  of  Siuiwut  VychaQi 


8S6  PilNlAETi'H   MANUSCEIPT   134. 

89  Mon  :  plant  ttn  ap  tudf  ap  D.  =  Kys  wyn  &c. 

i/r  hob  :  p.  Robert  trefor  ap  Jlion  T.  =  Rob:  /  J.  &c. 

90  y  truyan :  p.  Edvv:  trefor  ap  J.  T.  =  J.  /  jfeuan  &(;. 
Tfj.  gedwjjn  :  p.  dd:  llwyd  =  o\v:  /ho:  /  ftn  &c. 

91  ydeirnion  :  p.  Gr:  ap  ]feu:  ap  eign:  =:  Jen:  &c. 
kilhen :  p.  jfankyn  dekaf  —  J.  wyn  /  E.  /  Gr:  llwyd  &c. 
Plant  Rikart  ap  Kydwaladr  ap  gr:  &c.  ,S'.  V. 
Maelor  .•  plant  gr:  ap  ^er:  ap  Engion  goch  o  sownlti  <fcc. 

92  Edeirnion :  *p.  ^eu;  ap  y  giwn  o  eva  V5  vad:  ap  groiiwy  &c. 
.  94  P.  toraas  ap  ]feu:  ap  Rys  o  anes  V3  oweiu  ap  gr:  &c. 

95  P.  kwnws  ap  D.  vychan  =  mallt  &c. 

P.  Hari  salbri  =  hari  goch,  tomas,  Rob:  /  elsbeth  &c. 

97  P.  Hvw  konwy  o  Elsbeth  V5  Domas  hen  salbri 
P.  Howel  koetmor  =  Eva  &c. 

99  A  description  of  the  arms  of  (I)  Judas  Makahiws,  (2)  Arthur, 
(3)  Siarls,  (4)  Godffre  de  bwlen,  (5)  Jhon  ap  Rob:  ap  Ha  o  kastell- 
march,   (0)    kyhelyn,  (7)  Mad:   ap  Mred:  /  (8)   gwaithvoed,  (0)  ithel 
Tclyn    [p.  loo]    (10)  arg:    Herbert,     (11)   Mred:    ap   Morgan  o  sir 
Aber  teifi,  (12)  Jhon  ap  R.  ap  siankyn  o  vorganwc  a  gwyr,  (13)  Jhon 
ap  dd:  ap  ho:  o  dir  ffwyr,  (14)    Hn  ap  gim  ap  Tomas  o  Bri/n  hafod, 
(15)  Henrri  ap    gtm  ap  T.,  (16)  Tomas  vyclian  ap  T.   ap   ho:   o  Ian 
wenoc  sir  aber  teifi,  (17)  ffilpot  ap  Rys  o  blaen  trenn,  (18)  efa  V3  Sii 
o  toerlh  rynio>i'\,  [lOl],  (19)  Moriddic   wurwyn,   (20)  y  brenhin  Hari 
seithved,  (21)   Fh:  ap  ifor,  (22)  iiilport  walby,  [102]   (23)  Itn  ap  Jor: 
(24)  f  ankyn  hafart,  (25)  Ow:  brogevnlyw,  (26)  Eirid  flaidd,  (27)  Jthel 
vychan,  (28)  Rys  ap  tewdwr,  (29)  Hwva  ap  kynddel,   (30)  llowarch 
ap    pran,  (31)   raael  melieuydd,  [103]  (32)   Jeu:  ap  ho:   ap    Mred: 
(33)  gr:  ap  D.  goch,  (34)  Trystan  holant,  (35)  Gwerydd  ap  R.  goch, 
(36)  Hn  ap  gr:  /  (37)  gr:  ap  kynan,  (38)   gwenwynwyn,  ,(39)  kadrod 
hardd,      (40)   kariadoc  ap   gollwyn    [losfj    (41)   JVan    melan — Jeu: 
ap  Hn  rychan,   (42)  PIo:   ap  ystifn,  (43)  meUenydd — D.  ap  mredd: 
vychan,  and  (44)  Morgan  ap  ho:  ap  ph:  /  (45)  gwrthrynion  Ian  armon 
— Ow:  ap  i)h:  ap  Rys,  (46)  Morgan  ap  Tomas  ap  nicolas,  (47)  IL. 
ymddyfri — Hari  ap  T.  ap  nicolas,  (48)  Gwent — Morgan  ap  D.  gam, 
(49)  syr  gr:  vychan  o  l)owys   [loe]  (50)  Marchvdd,  {b\)  tomas  hen 
salbri,  (52)  iankyn  vychau,§  (53)  of  Ector,  alexandcr,  ^fulissisar,  dvk 
0  Jossui,  a  Dd:  brophwyd,  (58)  Mred:  gam  o  ddyved 

Din  meirchion 
107  Mayneva  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  Rys  ap  Robyn  &c. 

109  bryngwyn  esgob  :  Rob  :  ap  Rys  ap  syr  D,  annwyl  &c. 

110  Bryngwyn :  Hari,  pirs,  a  siams  meib  Jhon  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap 

Jthel  vychan  o  L.  eurgain  &c. 
ill   Maen  efa:  Rob;  ap  Hvw  ap  Mad:  ap  deio  &e,. 

112  Trergraic  :  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  Jhon  ap  ho:  &c. 

113  Dim  eirchion  :  Roger,  a  gr:  vikar  kilTten  a  Ric:  meib  Tlio:  &c. 

„  Gregor,  Tho:  a  I),  meib  gr:  ap  J.  sais  &c. 

114  %rriaddig  yn  y  hwm  :  Roger  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  ken;  &c. 
Demeirchion  :  John  ap  Edw:  ap  Thomas  &c. 

115  WMtford — mertvn:  Gr:  benfras  ap  gr:  vychan  &c. 

,,  tre  vychdan  .   Hvw  ap  R.  ap  dd:  penant  &c. 

110  „  gam :  Jhon  ap  Jthel  ap  ifeu:  ap  Tudr  &c. 

117  Eyas  :  Tomas  ap  gim  ap  lewys  ap  Jhon  &c. 
,,       Rhys  ap  Harri  np  Jhon 


*  p.  =  plaDt  — children.    Plant  is  used  here  to  cover  remoter  descendants  as  well, 
t  At  the  bottom  of  this  entry  and  page  ve  have  the  statement  '  0  law  lewys  y 
glyun:     Again  at  the  top  and  bottom  margins  of  page  105,   '  Ihjfr  lewys  y  glyn.' 
§  In  different  ink  with  the  statement '  kojn  0  lyfr  syr  D.  vychan  Haw  yntyn  O.' 
it  Eeiid  Hiraddug, 


LLYVYR  MAWR   GR:   HIRAETHOG.  837 

117  hrecheinioc — ij  pevtyn  :  ^eu:  ap  Glra  vychan  &c. 

1 18  Rhvddlan  :  [Pirs]  motwn  sgwier  a  sersiant  of  arras  ir  brenhin 
ap  Ric:  motwn  ap  jfankyn  ap  Ric:  motwn  ap  Wra:  motwn,  &c. 

fVitffordd  a  U.  hassa  :  The:  mostyn,  Hvw,  a  [iirs  mostyn  meib 
Ric:  ap  ho:  &c.  o  gatrln  V3  Tomas  hen  salbri   .   1551   . 

119  I'engwern :  P.  ^eu:  vychan  ap  f.  ap  adda  =:  ^thel/  U.  /ho:  &c. 

120  -tt.  hassa,  Pant  y  llongdy :  Tho:  v'n  ap  T.  gi':  ap  J.  gr:  &c. 
IL.  drillo  yn  y  deirnion,  yr  hendivr:  Hvw  gwyn  ap  Edn:  ap'gr:  &c. 

121  Maelor:  Jhon  wyn  ap  dd:  ap  ho:  ap  -feuan  &c. 
hydewain :  Ho:  ap  if.  Uwyd  ap  if.  ap  owain 

122  llyiveni :  P.  toraas  salbri  =  Hary  s.  o  aber  konwy  a  Jhon  s.  &c. 
Dd:  ap  ho:  ap  Edn:  ap  nired:  ap  J.  llwyd  &c.  %/'"  madri/n 

123  ||Wraffre  llwyd  ap  Rob:  ap  James  &c.  hari  hwx  &c. 

125  3Iaelor  S. — \Vm:  hangmer  ap  Ifankyn  ap  gr;  vychan  hangmer* 
Halchdyn  :  Wm:  llwyd  ap  Wm:  ap  Jhon 

Wmffre  domoc  brawd  g.  Jhon  wynf 

126  Ahertanad:  ").  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  ^.  vachan  &c, 

127  Jhon  ap  morgan  of  kynston|  &e. 

128  Eiddionydd :  plant  EHsse  ap  morys  o  katrin  stanle 

129  kroesOswallt:  Wm:  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Jthel  &c. 

130  Rrydorddwy  :  Hvw  ap  "j.  vychan  ap  ^.  ap  ^olyn  &c.  , 

,,  plant  If'hel  ap  ^.  vychan  &c.  =  syr    Hob: 

vicar  ysgeifioc,  Huw  a  phirs  &c. 

131  Mae  Gwilijm  gwyn  yu  dywedj'd  vod  iiij  Tarddvr. 

i.  Jai'ddur  ap  Egri  ap  raorien  ap  mynac  ap  march  ap  meirchion  arg:  ar  dalm 
0  "wynedd  .  .  .  [ef]  a  aeth  i  ryvela  ar  angred  ae  jno  i  daliwyd  ef  ac  ^  bv ' 
yngharchar  yn  hir  ac  i  Rhoed  atto  iw  dysgv  adar  Uwch  guoin  ac  ef  a  ddysgodd 
vddynt  ehedec  yn  gwplws  wrth  ddal  ber  a  chic  yn  yr  awyr  ac  velly  ar  ddvw  pasc 
i  damvnodd  to  ddangos  y  dysc  a  naethoedd  ef  ir  adar  ac  erchi  awuaeth  y 
swden  iddo  ivarae  val  i  myunai  ao  yntav  a  wnaethoedd  gadair  iddo  i  hvn  ac 
yu  y  gadair  i  ddaetli  ef  a  ber  o  gic  yni  law  a  rrwymo  yr  adar  wrtho  a  chodi 
y  ber  awnaeth  ar  adar  a  ehedodd  i  vj'nv  i  geissio  y  kic  ao  velly  i  doeth  to 
adref  ac  mae  yn  rroi  grifiwnt  yni  arfe  or  achos  hwnnw  A  chlustie  march 
a  oedd  iddo  ac  ni  wyddai  neb  hynny  ond  i  eilliwr  ac  ni  lafassai  er  i  benn 
iddoedyd  ond  vo  dyvodd  klwyf  yn  y  barbwr  val  i  gorfv  iddo  geisso  physygwr  ao 
addyvod  hwnnw  kyfrinach  oedd  yni  ladd  ac  erchi  ir  barbwr  gyffessv  wrth  y 
ddayar  ac  velly  i  gwuaeth  ac  yn  ]ach  yddaeth  achyrs  tec  adyvodd  yn  y  vann 
honno  Ac  erbyn  gwyl  vchel  iroedd  bibyddion  maelgwn  gwj'nedd  yn  dy vod  ato  ac 
a  welsont  y  hyrs  tee  ao  ai  torassant  ac  ai  rroessant  yni  pibav  ao  a  ganassant  geir 
bronn  ybrenhin  ac  ni  vedryntgannv  dim  ond  hlvstian  march  i  varch  amiieirchion 
ac  yna  i  tyvc^d  dihareb  o  hynny  "  vaeth  hynny  ar  gyru  a  ffibav  "  &o 

133  syr  hari  bwld  ap  Rys  ap  syr  hari  bowld  o  aber  konwy  §  &c. 
b.  XV  llwyth  gwynedd:  braint  hir  &c. 

135  Kadrod  kalch  vynydd  a  fv  yn  angred  ymlaen  ar  sarsiniedll  &c. 
h.  Dcvhevbarth.  :  Lewys  ap  To:  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  Rick:  &c. 

137  Gioent :  Syr  Tomas  ap  morgan  ap  ^ankyn  ap  ph:  &c. 

138  Naniiav  :  mavric  llwyd  ap  ynyr  vychan**  &c. 

b.  heinmyrch — //.  rrayadr :  Jhon  llwyd  ap  Eic;  llwyd  &c.  .  155/f . 

c.  Brechenioc — II,  vaylvn  :  Eissac  prys  &c. 

139  Eic:  pilstwn  o  sian  v3  mred :  ap  Toinas  o  borthaml  &c. 

140  abad  II.  egivestl—'Espr^oh  dd:  ap  J.  ap  ^er:  &c.tt 

141  Traws  vynydd:  rririd  ap  J.  ap  rririd  vychan  &c. 

142  Dinbyck:    p.   J.   laddwn   (1)  o  vargred  .  .  (2)    o   sian  V3   D. 

Miltwn  hen  &c.   1556 
D.  hlwyd—maes  maen  Jiymro :  Raff  ap  Robert  ap  gr:  ap  mad:  ap 
bleddyn  sais  .     See  also  p.  US.JJ 

*  y  ny  llyfr  fFrst6al  parszmint  ?ne  prydlyfr  f  y«  y  ffestwal  i  kai  i  brydlyfr 

X  kopi  0  law  ffwk  powel 

%"  llyfr  gwllim  givyn  "  occurs  at  the  beginning   of  this   pedigree,  and  "  leiber 
Jhon  trevor  trefahn  "  at  its  end. 

f  "  leiber  trefor  trefalvn."  **  "  Hyfr  hen  person  Elien." 

ft  "  0  lyfr  gvtyn  owen."  %%  "  hber  lanoffordd." 


838  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPT   134, 

142  //.  ynys  :  Gr:  ap  Jhon  ap  mad:  ap  syr  ^thel  &c. 

144  Trayan — swydd  G.  osswallt ;  Gwenllian  V5  mad:  ap  Jdlja  &Ct 

145  Tref  Riwedoc  :  Elisse  ap  Wm:  llwyd  ap  morys  &c. 
147  IL.  gefni :  syr  livw  ap  syr  kyn:  ap  ho: 

Trygarn  yn  hwmwd  lliivon  :  Rys  ap  Ho:  ap  Rys  ap  dd:  &c. 

149  llechylched         „  „  Lewys  ap  ho:  ap  f  er:  ap  ho:  &c. 
llheon :  ftu  ap  ho:  ap  tegwared 

T'daethwy,  viathafarn  eithqf :  R,  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  ^olo  llwyd 

150  Malltraeth — hodeon  :  O.  ap  hvw  ap  ow:  ap  mevric  &c.  .  I35S. 

152  Jt.  gaffo:  Rissiart  ap  D.  ap  hvw  ap  morgan  &c. 

153  Ki.  vigel :  Rys  ap  Wm:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  Gr: 

154  Twr  kelyn — ydryslwyn  :  J.  ap  Glm  ap  Rys  ap  Tudr  &e. 
Tal  ebolion  :  J.  a  Rys  =  meib  Mred:  ap  ho:  &c. 

IL.  habo :  Rys  ap  J.  ap  D.  vychan  inc.* 

155  Hendre  gadoc  yngicmwd  menai :  W.  wd  ap  J.  wd  ap  arnod  wd 
D.  ap  hari  ap  ^.  ap  Hn  &c. 

156  TL.  rrvstvd:  D.  llwyd  ap  ^.  ap  ]fankyn  ap  R.  vychan  &c. 

167  kastellmarch :  (Wm:  Jones  ap  Wra:  ap)  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  ap 
ttn  ap  ^tliel  vychan  &c. 

167  (Moris  vab  Ris  vab  mad:  vichan  &c.) 

JLartdrillo  yn  rros 

168  tre  llwyd  hoed  a  dinerth  :  Ric:  a  D.  =  p.  ho:  llwyd  ap  D.  &c. 
yr  hen  bias :  Gr:  ap  ithel  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

tre  riw  :  Rob:  ap  gr:  aj)  D.  ap  rrobin  &c. 

169  Ho:  ap  mad:  ap  J.  ap  eng:  =  tad  Rys  o  lynn  dwyfuch ;  plant 

Rys  =  Mad:  vychan  yn  aberkin  (11.  ystvindwy)  a  Rydderch 
yn  rre  gayan  (ymon)  &c. 

172  Mad:  or  liendwr 

(1)  ap  Twain  ab  bleddyn  up  O.  brogevntyn  mcrfrf  G.  Owain 

(2)  ap  ]fer:  ap  mad:  ap  Gr:  ap  O.  Brogevnttyn  inedd  syr 

To:  ap  J.  ap  deikws 
Ej.  Drillo :  Ywain  ap  J.  ap  J),  ap  J,  ap  y  glwn  &c. 

173  Jliraelhoc — y  voelas  :  Plant  morys  gethin  ap  Rys  &c. 

175  ,,  y  keirnioge :  Katrin  V3  O.  ap  ^ankyn  .  .  .  plant 

Katrin  o  Rob:  gethin  =  wm£Ere  &c. 

177  R,.  vfvdd :  J.  ap  mred:  ap  Rys  &c. 

j„grs — Gwr  0  vaelor:  R.  np  gr:  vychan  ap  mali  V5  grono  gethin  &c. 
Iregarwed  vynydd :  meibkyn:  ap  llowarch  =  kyn:  v'n,*lieilin  &c, 

178  TL.fair  talhayarn  :  Mred:  ap  U.  aj)  Eign:  &c. 
kilmael :  ifeiian  ap  R.  llwyd  ap  rrobin  &c. 

179  2L.  vair  l>.  /T.— Jhon  ap  Mred:  ap  f.  llwyd  ap  Hn  goch  &c. 
Sioyddinhycli :  Twna  tec  ap  bleddyn  ap  kyn:  &c. 

180  lie  yn        y  llwyn  dyrys  aled  nithoedd  a  ihre  berth  yn  ymyl 
hangar.    Plant  madoc  ap  Hn  vychan.  .  .  (2)  o  angharad  o  Grwchwillaa 

181  Yvionydd :  p.  f .  ap  Engion  ap  gr:  =  Gron:  /  mad:  /  ho:  v'n  &c. 

182  Caernarfon— tal  llyn  tarddenin  :  J.  ap  T).  ap  gr:  &c. 
b.  merched  Rys  Gethin  amerched  Ho:  ap  R.  Gethin. f 

183  Nannav  :%  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  mevric  vychan  ap  ho:  selef  &c. 
Harddlech  :  p.  syr  Trystan  holant  o  dangeystl  vj  D.  &c. 

Tal  y  bont,  y  britk  diryn  ol  gelle  :  Tudr  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  ho: 
185  If^ys  ykil  yn  II.  verys:  Gr:  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  v'n 
IL.  verys :  D.  llwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  Edn: 

188  „  «6er  rfwac?  :  Tomas  ap  morys  ap  Rys  &c. 

189  garth  garinon  :  Rys  wyn  ap  D.  anwyl  &c. 


"  3  loiber  o  law  tomas  llwjd  o  lys  dvlas  ymodcon. 
t  llyfr  o  law  tomas  wyn  [st'c]  o  lys  dvlas 
Jllyfr,l[ewys]  Ed  [ward]. 


LLYVYR  MAWB  GR:   HIBAETHOG.  839 

190  Ystrydahn  =  Gteissane :  P.  Jer:  ap  meilir  =  gr:  gvach 

b.  hoed  y  Uai :  Jhon  Evtyn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  nikolas  ap  deikws 

c.  John  tct/n  or  twr  ap  Rob:  ap  Jhon  ap  gr:  &c. 

191  Y.  alvn  :  Dd:  ap  Itys  ap  Reinallt  ap  gr:  &c. 
brynho  .  p.  Gr.  up  Ed:  ap  morgan  =  Kobert  &c. 

John  Davi,  Eob:  /  D.  /  ac  ][.  =  meib  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Sn  &c. 
merched  inad:  ap  ttn  ap  gr:  —  Gwenheyver  &c. 

192  IL.  evrgain  :  Eondyl  bilin  twn  ap  Rondyl  ap  aunes  &c. 

Y.  alvn  :  Jhon,  mastr  hvw  a  Eys  =  meib  gr:  ap  ]fankyn  &c. 

193  TVyth  mah  Edn:  vaeJian  .•*  Syr  Tudr  pioedd  ynant  a  llan 
ganfiaval  j  Hn  pioedd  y  krevddyn  j  Eys  pioedd  yarth  garmon  a  merch 
llywarch  ap  Bran  i  mam  /  Grono  pioedd  tregastell  ymon  /  Gr:  yr  hen 
glawdd  j  Jer:  pioedd  aber  marlais  ynglan  tywi  /  kyn:  a  ho;  a  fv 
esgob  yn  II.  Elwy     [  1 2  42— 47] . 

J  95  Rob:  ap  gr:  yychan  ap  gr:  ap  ]feva  goch  &c.\ 
196  Maelor  gymraec  :  D.  goch  ap  ho:  dorddv 

198  llwyn  ymaen  :  Jhon  ac  Ed:  meib  Rich:  llwyd  ap  Robert  &c. 

199  Sn  ap  gr:  ap  Jin  ap  Jei:  drwyndwn  &c. 

200  kydweli,  II.  gynwr,pen  y  ddevlwyn  :  To:  dv  ap  gim  &c.  153^. 

203  Swydd  goim-es  :  Edmwnt  ap  kadwaladr  aj)  gr:  gock  &c.f 
nan  honwy  :  D.  ap  tomas  ap  ho:  ap  mred:  &e.J 

p.  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  k.  =  madoc  /  engion  &c. 

204  JL.  wrthivl  ymvellt :  jfeuan  ap  bedo  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

206  Pentre  aeron  sioydd  y  ddrewen  :  To:  ilwyd  ap  Roger  ap  hvw 
syr  Jhon  matho  ap  gr:  ap  Tudr  &c. 

207  Tre  r  abad :  D.  ap  bened  ap  D.  ap  Hn  vychan 

y  divning  yn  chwitffordd :  D.  ap  John  ap  Ho:  ap  pel  &c. 

yr  ysgrifen  sydd  ar  qroes  Engn:  yn  ddisserth  : 
hock  sy  petatnv  lapis  ysti  cavssa  notatur 
Enion  oxi  Eiddid  rlaidd  filius  hoc  memoratur 

208  tre  Bic:  yn  vwch  glan  :  Tomas  ap  D.  ap  E.  ap  Elis  &c. 
merivn  is  glann :  ^^thel  ap  gr:  ap  'Jankyn  &c. 
Tegaingl:  syr  Rys  ap  Rys  vychan  &c. 

209  Mertvn  :  Hvw  ap  D.  ap  Ed:  ap  R.  ap  gr:  benffras  &c. 

„  Rob:  /  Ric:  /  To:  /  a  J.  /  kyn  =  p.  D.  ap  Ed:  ap  R. 

210  kaencys :  Jhon  Gr:  ap  pirs  gr:  sersiant  &c. 

211  „  trervedwen  ne  g^rgSn:^  Jhon  ap  ^eu:  ap  ho:  &c. 
Rhilyfnwyd :  Hvw  ap  tomas  ap  mwyndec  &c. 
hoparleni :  Rob:  ap  Jeu:  ap  kyn:  ap  Jeu:  &c. 
Chwitffordd:  D.  ap  tomas  vychan  ap  Hn  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

212  //.  hfissa — gielgre :  Morgan  ap  tomas  ap  Ed: 

tre  plogan  pen  y  maen  .  Tomas  ap  hari  ap  kyn:  &c. 

213  Aber  afan — morgannwc :  p.  gr:  ap  Eys  ap  D.=W.  J.  /gr:  &c. 

214  Tref  valdwyn :  mastr  Wni:  herber  ap  syr  Eic:  heibef  &c. 

215  Henllan :  Rob:  a  grono  meib  ]feu:  ap  engn:  &c.1[ 
Cloltaenoc :  p.  gr:  ap  mred:  =  itn,  Reinallt,  D.  &c. 
Jal :  syr  D.  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  &c. 

216  k.  llion  ar  wysc  :  Roger  ap  morgan  ap  Jhon  &c. 

ymyl  y  dref — Sir    Vynwy  :  syr  jarls  herbert  o  droyaf   1550. 

217,  221  Bod  afon,  Twr  helyn  :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  Hwlkwn  &c.** 

Twrkelyn  :  meibion  Rob:  ap  ftn :  ap  Tudr  ap  D.  =•  Ho:  yn 

llan  eigrad  ynant  mawr   syr  Wm.    person  11.  vachreth   yn    amhych 

archiagon  R.  gethin  yn  ymyl  kaer  lleon 

*  ?  leiber  U'n  ap  ^euan        f  Ib'fr  1.  E        11  /  Tr  /  R         J  Yn  llyfr  ph :  Jankyn. 

§  Gr:  Hiraethog  was  in  the  habit  of  representing  the  vowels  and  semi-vowels  by 
1,  2,  3,  4,  S,  5S  or  6,  and  7.  The  letter  r  and  the  figure  S  are  not  always  easy  to 
differentiate.     Gorgen  is  the  probable  reading/which  may  be  a  mistake  for  ?  Grogen. 

IT  llyfr  Jhon  ap  W.  ap  Jhon. 

**  wrth  lyfr  Dd:  alaw — kais  varn  y  llyfr  kasgl  o  von  a  hwn 


840  PENIABTH  MANUSCRIPT  134, 

218  lliwon  llan  y  trisnant :  Rich:  ap  hvw  aj)  mred:  ap  raathe 

219  Tver  bardd — T.helyn:  Hii  ap  Tudr  ap  Ho:  ap  kyn:  &c. 
IL.  vihangel  tre  r  bardd :  Eeinallt  ap  Wm:  ap  Tudr  ap  ho:  &c. 
IL.  vaeloc — It.  lliwon  :  R.  ap  Hn  ap  ho:  ap  mad:  &c. 

tre  gayan — h.  tin  daethwy :  f.  Uwyd  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  gtm  &c. 
/laer  gibi :  Rob:  ap  Wm:  ap  gim  ap  ttn  Uwyd  &c. 

220  Ej.  gefni:  Roliind  ap  "Wm:  ap  Rol:  ap  Wm:  ap  Rol.  ap  J.  &c.* 
Penwijnllys — h.  tin  daethwy :  D.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  tudr  &e. 
Pentraeth  „  T>.  Uwyd  ap  0.  ap  Rys  &c. 
Ariannell — mon :  Jhon  ap  J.  Uwyd  ap  fta  &c. 

221 1  llys  dvlas :  Wm:  ap  ^.  ap  tudr  ap  gtm  &c. 

222  Twr  Itelyn  :  paris  Jhon  paris  ap  tomas  gr:  ap  syr  Wm:  gr:  &c. 

,,  D./  gr:/  a  thudr  meib  D.  ap  kyn:  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

bod  axon — pentre  ardderch :  tomas  ap  Rys  ap  Wm:  &c. 

223  llys  dvlas :  To:  Uwyd  ap  D.  .  .  .  ap  kyn  o  Iwydiarth 
peji  bol  yn  hwr  kelyn  :         ap  R.  ap  glm  ap  J.  &c. 

Talebolioh  :  Rolant  moel  ap  wim  moel  ap  J.  M.  &c. 

224  „  IL.  vigel:  E.  ap  Wtra  ap  ftn  ap  ifeu:  &c. 

225  IL,  rrvddlad  :  Mastr  To:  bwkle  person  IL.  ddevsant,  IL.  gefni 
W^.  vachreth  gronant :  Mastr  Rob:  bwkle  i  frawd  &c. 

IL.  vwroc  :  Rissiart  ap  morys  ap  rrys  ap  ho:  &c. 

226  TL.Jfleiviii — Bod  wig  an  :  Jhon  ap  ho:  ap  ftn  ap  ithel  &c. 

„  Brwynoc  :  Wm:  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  &c. 

„  ILynon :  Marged  v5  Wm:  ap  Jhon  ap  Rys  &c. 

227  kaer  gybi  .•  Jhon  ap  O.  ap  Mevrie  ap  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  <&c. 

„  Rob:  ajD  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  ftn 

iL.  vwroc  {bod  gemais)  :  Mred:  ap  gr:  ap  Grrono  ap  D.  &c. 

229  ILanvar  ynghowrnwy :  Rob:  ajs  "j.  ap  ho:  ap  J.  <fec. 

Wm:  ajD  hvw  ap  kyn:  &c. 
y  manachdy  „  Rob:  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  Edn:  &c. 

y  ty  yny  maen      „  D.  ap  ftn  ap  Grim  &c. 

iL.  vechell :  Gr:  ap  hvw  ap  llys  ap  Edn:  &c. 

230  „  Hvw  ap  madoo  ap  R.  ap  Edn:  &e. 

,,  liaer  degoc  :  Wm:  ap  morgan  ap  Gtm  &c. 

„  „  Jhon  ap  ftn  ap  D. 

„  haer  degawr :  Hvw  ap  Jhon  ap  D. 

231  ,,  Mred:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  &c. 

iL.  Bunric — Idegyroc  :  Wm:  ap  Rys  ap  Gim 
„  Rys  ap  syr  D.  ap  rrys  ap  ho:  &c. 

ff^.  ffl.ewyn — vcheldre :  Rob:  ap  morys  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 
,,  Rys  ap  ho:  ap  Rob:  ap  ftn  &c. 

232  Vchdref—niynydd  blewoc  :  Morys  ap  Gim  ap  ftn  &c. 

,,         gwenynoc :  Rissiart  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  &c. 
2L.  vechel—bodelwyn:  Wm:  ap  ftn  ap  tvdr  &c. 

233  -K.  badric—Tre  r  gof:  Jhon  ap  Rissiart  goeh  &c. 

T.  kelyn  bodafon  U.  v'el  yn  rre  r  bardd :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

234  ymyl  y  dvw  mares :  Riehart  ap  D.  ap  Robert  &c. 

235  k.  nienai — rrossvr  y  velin  loynt :  Ric.  ap  D.  ap  hvw  &e. 
Tin  daethwy— pen  mynydd .\B,ic.  O.  ap  Ric.  ap  0.  &c. 

236  Terogog  yn  amlwch :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  ^er:  &c. 

237  IL.  gelynin  :  Wm:  ap  Wm:  ap  tomas  ap  Ric:  &c. 

238  kaer  rrvn  :  Wiliam  ap  tomas  ap  feu:  &c. 

239  -K.  bedr  y  kenin  :  E.  ap  tudr  ap  rrys  ap  mad:  &c.      - 

„      Rob:  ap  syr  hvw  ap  Rob:  ap  mred:  &c. 
Pen  pant  benfro  :  Jhon  ap  mad:  ap  gim 
It.  bedr  :  Wm:  ap  E.  ap  grono  ap  R.  ap  deikws 


'o  lyfr  Dd:  alaw  hyd  hyn  "  f  See  page  217  above. 


tLYVYR  MAWR  GR:  HIRAETHOO,  481 

240  it.  hedr :  tal  y  liafa  :  jfemwnl.*  ap  R.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

241  IL.  f/elynin  :  Hari  ap  gvvilim  ap  rtii  goch  &c. 
1/  fjyffin  ;  Gv:  ap  tomas  ap  rrobert  &c. 
yfionydd :  Owen  ap  ^en:  ap  O.  &c. 

242  y  ffy*fin  :  Rob:  ap  rnred:  aj)  njs  &c. 

IL.  bedr :  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  ifeuaii  ap  kwnws 

243  IL.  ddoged:  D.  /  livw  /  J.  /o  Sieffro  meib  gr:  ap  J.  ap  matl;  &c. 
JL.  vair  dol  hayarn  :  John  /  Rys  /  D.  /  =  p.  mad:  ap  gronw  &c. 
Eglwys  vnch  :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  ho:  gocli  ap  ho:  ap  kwnws  &c. 

IL.  gerniw  ;  hvw  ap  Jhon  ap  D.  ajj  mad:  &e. 
dinhych  :  sion  ap  tomas  vychan  salbri  &c. 

244  Efa  V5  Jem  ap  Rys  wyn  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
kaerwys  :  Ed:  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  bleddyn  &e. 

245  IL.  sannan — tre  hesgin  :  Rob:  /  Wm:  /  To:  /a  D.  =  meib  Mad: 

ap  gronw  ap  gr:  gethin  &e. 

246  Tre  hesgin :  p.  morys  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

247  Tre  L.  sanan :  morys  ap  Jhon  ap  J.  ap  ttu  &c. 

248  IL.  sanan — hendre  nenid :  Pirs  /  Rob:  /  (o:  /  Ed:  /  J.  /  a  hari  /  elin  / 

marsli  :^  plant  RaflE  ap  Robert  salbri  ap  (o:  hen  S. 
„         tre  riigor  :  p.  Rys  ap  kyn:  ap  iin  v'n  =  Harri  /  fiwc  &c. 

249  „         chwibren:  J.  ap  Jhon  pigod  ap  gronw  &c. 
tre  arllwyd :  Rob:  a[)  tomas  ap  harri 

250  Tref  Nest  dv  yn  II.  sanan  .  Gr:  ap  gronw  ap  gr:  &c. 
Penan  aled :  Rob:  ap  Rys  ap  Gr:  &c. 

devnant :  tvdr  ap  ^eu:  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

251  „         Jhon  ap  J.  ap  grvgor  ap  tomas  &c. 
Treflecli:  R:  ap  kyn:  ap  D.  ap  rrobin  &c. 
Gwytherin :  Jhon  llwyd  ap  D.  anwyl  &c. 

252  syr  morys  bicar  11.  sanan  ap  tomas  &c. 

IL.  vfvdd — talybryn  :  Sandr  ap  ^ev:  ap  mad:  ap  Rys  &c. 

253  Gtvehelynt  llioydiarth  ymhowys :  Kelynin  ap  rriryd  &c. 
kydetoain  :  Dd:  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Mathew  &c. 
Gwytherin :  J.  ap  U.  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  gronw  &c. 

254  JEiddio/iydd:  Jhon  wyn  ap  hvw  ap  Jhon  ap  mad:  &c. 
meib  ho:  ap  D.  ap  mcvric  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  Sele  &c. 

256  L.  Sain  sior :  Wm:  /  gr:  /  Hn  /  mred:  =  meib  to:  ap  Ha  &c. 

257  IL.  vfydd — tref  verain :  tvdr  sgwier  /  Wm:/  J.  Wyn  =  meib 

Rob:  vychan  &c. 
Pen  porchell :  plant  Rob:  ap  J.  —  syr  Wm:  person  k.  wys  &c. 

258  karived  vynydd:  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  gronw  ap  D.  ap  gr:  llwvd  &t;. 
tref  herain  :  Lewys  tudr  pen  porchell  &c. 

261  Bryn  D.     tin  kadvel :  J.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 
tin  hadvel :  Jhon  ap  D.  ap  f .  ap  ho:  &c. 

262  Keinmych  :  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  tudr  &c. 
mofonioc  :  to:  vychan  ap  ^euan  pantwn  &c. 
tal  y  bryn  :  to:  vychan  ap  Wm:  ap  gronw  &c. 

263  bod  ysgafn  :  D.  ap  Robert  ap  D.  ap  gronw  &c. 

„         „         Lewys  ap  Rob:  ap  ho:  ap  rrobin  &c. 
karwed  vynydd  :  Kyn:  ap  D.  ap  Robin  ap  D.  &c. 

264  „  „  Rob:  ho:  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  &c. 

„  „  Wm:  ap  R.  ap  ftn  ap  Robin  &c. 

„  „  D.  ap  f .  ap  R.  ap  tudr  &c. 

265  „  „  W.  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  ap  tudr 

„  .,  Tudr  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  R.  ap  engion  ap  pill  &c. 

2C6         „  '„  Hu/D. /syr  Rob: /Ric:/ Wm:/  =  meib  gr: 

ap  R.  ap  rrobin  &c. 
„  „  Gr:  ap  Rob:  ap  ftn  ap  Robin  &c. 


*  "  Wiliam  koetmor  "  is  written  over  7et&wnt. 

M  M 


842  PENURTH  MANUSCRIPT   134. 

266  tin  /tad eel:  Morys  a  J.  meib  Jhon  ap  fin  vychan  ap  gronw  ap  D,  &<;. 

„         „      ffwk  a  Ric  meib  gr:  ap  J.  ap  R.  &c. 

267  Nandyn :  Hvw  ap  ]f.  ap  ftii  ap  mad:  &c. 
iafarn  nandyn  y  saint :  J.  ap  hari  ap  hvw  &c. 
*''^f  „  „         K.  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ap  mad:  &c. 
Nanklyn  gynon :  R.  ap  Hn  ap  Rys  ap  Hn  &c. 

268  Nanklyn  y  saint :  D.  ap  f.  ap  Jhon  ap  tudr  &c. 

,»  „         r>.  ap  Hn  ap  ]f.  ap  Hn  &;;. 

»  „         syr  John  (ap  tomas  ap  D.)  vicar  Nanclyu 

269  N.  gynon :  Kyn:  ap  Ho:  ap  Hn  vychan  &c. 
N.  y  saint:  jf.  ap  1{.  ap  tudr  llwyd  &c. 

„  Rob:  ap  Rys  ap  tudr  Ac. 

270  Dinhych:  plant  Eliu  a  J.  knowsle  =  Rob:  /J.  /  &c. 

IL.  rmyadr  yngheinmyrch :  p.  Mred:  ap  tomas  ap  Hn  &c. 
Nan  hlyn  gynon :  p.  Tudr  ap  D.  ap  if.  &c. 

271  Pen  machno  trer  bettws :  J.  ap  Jhon  ap  heilin  &c. 
koet  y  ffynnon  :  p.  Ric:  ap  ]f.  ap  Jhon  o  Sian  &c. 
ysgwyddfrith  yn  rrer  betivs :  p.  J.  ap  f .  ap  Jlion  &c. 

272  Ypark  „  p.  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  Jhon  &c. 
trer  betws :  Wm:  ap  Hn  ap  ]f,  ap  R.  gethin  &c. 

2?3  „  y  dvlasse  :  Ho:  goch  ap  R.  ap  Hn  &c. 

„  y  dvgoed :  plant  ffwk  ap  Rob.  =  Rob:  /  lowri  /  &c. 

Pen  machno — glasgion :  Ho:  ap  to:  penrryn  ap  D.  &c. 

278  „         ^.  I  ii.  I  elisse  /  J.  llwyd  /  meib  to:  ap  D.  vychan  &c. 
Bwlch  y  maen  :  plant  J.  ap  R.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  gethin  &c. 

279  Plant  Gr:  ap  jf.  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  mred:  &c. 

„      Mad:  ap  Hn  vychan  o  vangor  &c. 
281       „      Ric:  tiygarn  =  hvw,  Jhon,  Rob:  Ac. 
„      Gr:  ap  velyn  ap  ho:  ap  rrobin  <fcc.  &c. 

283  marched  D.  ap  J.  ap  rririd  voel  oflodjol 
Plant  D.  llwyd  ap  mred:  o  ddevddwr  &c. 

284  P.  syr  W.  Herbert  jfarll  penfro  o  Ann  vj  syr  Water  defras 
Mastr  hari  symrsed  .  /  ffrawnsys  S.  &c. 

285  P.  syr  W.  trowtpec  o  varged  ystanle  &c. 

aber  bechan,  II.  llwch  hayarn  :  R.  ap  raorys  ap  ow:  ap  ^.  blaene 
plus  yn  y  gwestyd  „         Gv:  ap  ^.  goch  benlhvyd 

286  plwyf  kynfran — Iref  lysvaen  :  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  Rys  ap  f .  v'n  = 
hvw  vychan  person  Han  san  ffrad  ymechain,  Gwen  g.  gr:  ap  J.  ap 
Jankyn  o  Ian  gynfran  <fcc. 

287  Jal  —  //.  armon  : -p.   D.  ddv  ap  tvdr  =  Gr:/ Lewis  person  a 

syr  to:  vicar  yr  vn  lie 

288  „    gallt  gymbybr  :  p.  Hn  vychan  (1)  o  varged,  (2)  o  wen  &c. 
IL.  gadvan  kacr  einion  :  plant  D.  llwyd  ap  Tudr  =  (1)  o  gariad 

verched  .  .  .  (2)  o Mastr  Jhon  llwyd  abad  Han  egwestl,  ifeuan, 

lewys  llwyd,  tudr,  syr  lewis  llwyd  person  11.  degla  a  11.  verys  &c.  ^ 

This  pedigree  is  a  very  loDg  one,  and  besides  references  to  llyfr  Rys  holant 
(p.  289),  hen  hjfrav  da  (p.  290),  llyfr  Ed:  ap  Roger  (p.  292),  it  has  the  following 
epilogue  :  yr  wyth  nolen  hyn  [=  pp.  289-304]  hyd  yma  a  ysgrifenais  i  wyl  y 
saint  0  lyfr  o  law  syr  Tomas  ap  ^eaan  ap  deikws  a  wnaeth  ef  ivrth  gyfarwycldyd 
llaiver  o  awdvriad  o  achao  yr  abad  Jhon  o  Ian  Egwestl  ac  o  bydd  neb  a  amhevo 
nad  ydynt  air  yngair  ar  llyfr  hwnnw  Eled  at  at  Jhon  ap  E.  o  risgoc  ac  yno 
7  karffweled  y  llyfr  hwrnw  a  gwirionedd  am  i  betrvssder      heddiw  oed  krist  1S30. 

304  *Mair  vorwyn  vam  ^essv  v}  'Johachym  &c. 

305  llyma  val  )  gallai  yr  abad  Jhon  ai  frodvr  Roi  ev  harfavf 

307  Arfe  mad;  ap  mred:  (1)  medd  llyfr  Jhon  saer,  (2)  medd  llyfr  Jhon  letoys, 
(3)  medd  llyfr  Tudr  ap  Rys  ap  D. 

*  yniwedd  llyfr  Joh?*  ap  Rys  o  Risgoc 

f  yn  llyfr  Jhon  ap  R.  o  Risgoc  i  had  yr  arfav  hyn  [pp.  805-7]  o  waith  syr 
Tomas  ap  J.  ap  deihi/s 


T.LTVYB  MAWR  Gil;   HIRAETHOG.  843 

308  A  description  of  the  arms  o/brutu3  darian  las  / ,  .  .  R.  ap  Ph.  / 
Jev:  saethmarcJioc  /  Rigston  /  llan  elwy  /  lian  egwostlj  assvf  3  klomen 
arian  ai  esgill  ar  lletl  /  &c. 

311  Rhiabon—ltristionyddgynric:  D.  llvvyd  ap  John  ap  Ed:  itc. 

»  ,,  Jhoii  \v-jn  ap  lio:  ap  Ed:  &c. 

312  „  »«eWy/2 ;  Jhon  ap  D.  Ihvyd  ap  deikvvs  &c. 

313  RImo  ahon—tref  vortyn  :  hvw  aj)  Jlioii  ap  ]feu:  ap  deikws  &c. 

»  ^^'yn  y  wiwair  :  SictFre  bromffild  ap  tudr  &e. 

314  -ZL.  verys — llysykil :  p.  gr:  ap  gr:  ap  ttu  v'n         .  15S1  . 
Syr  niclas  ap  ithel  &c.  hen  bersou  ^.  verais 

315  K.  degla  :  Jhon  ap  Gr:  llwyd  ap  1).  llwyd  &c. 
ilokaenoc  :    Hn  /  Reinallt  /  D.  /  ho:  =  p.  Grr:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
Swyddinhych  :  Rob:  a  Grono  =  meib:  J.  ap  Engion  &c. 

A.  gelav — pont  y  gwyddyl:  Mred:  ap  Rob:  ap  ifeuan  &c. 
Henllan  :  The:  a  gr:  =  meib  grono  ap  J.  &c. 

3 16  iL.  annon,  maes  y  llan :  Jthel,  W.  t  aeliwr  da,  gr: = p.  D.  apgr:  ddu 
lEr.  silin,  ystymvalon,plas  yn  y  talwrn  uchaf:  Lewys  ap  Rob:  &c. 
hynwyd,  hefnblaidd,  kynllaith  .   kyhelyn  ap  Rvn  &c. 
Dinbych :  p.  Jhou  laddwn  o  vargred  V5  Ric:  Mathe  &b. 

31!r  kynlleth,  K,.  silin,  y  glasgoed :  Ric:  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  &c. 

Moelyreh  :  morys  wyn  ap  Hn  ap  ^euan  &c. 
318  kynlleth,  phvyf  Silin  :  D.  llwyd  ap  to:  ap  D.  &c. 

tref  loran  „  p.  To:  lewya  o  vari 

313         „  „  Mred:  ap  ^.  ap  R.  ap  ho: 

820  Ej.  ymlodvol :  Tho:  llwyd  ap  J.  llwyd  vychan  &c. 

Mochnant:  jfer:  goch,  ^.  krach,  ]f.  K.  Einion  =  p.  ^.  voelvrych 
321  Blodvol  vechan  .  Rob:  tanad  ap  J.  tanad  &c. 

llynklys  yn  II.  ymlodfol :  Ric:  ap  to:  ap  Gr:  &c. 
323  j£.  gedwyn,  all  y  gadair :  Rob:  ap  morys  ap  'j.  &c. 

323  „  Gr:  ap  "j.  ap  J.  ap  hwytsiwn  &c. 

„  Jhon  ap  Rreinallt  ap  f .  ap  gr:  &c. 

324  Garth  Eryr  ymmochnant :  Plant  Gr:  ap  D.  vychan  &c. 

325  kyn  lleth — hamhclic :  plant  Hn  ap  Adda  ap  D.  &c. 

„  hefnblaidd :  kyhelyn  ap  rrvn  ap  enion  &c. 

„  rriiv  las  :  Tho:  a  morys  meib  to:  ap  R.  ap  gvtyn  &c. 

326  Gartheryr  :  Reinallt  ap  morys  ap  gr:  &c. 

327  IL.  silin  ynghynlleth  ;  p.  mred:  ap  ho:  ap  morys  &c. 

329  Sir  gaervyddin,  brynn  y  beirdd :  p.  morys  ap  y wain  ap  gr:  &c. 

Devddwr  y  domgen  ymhlivy  tyssiUo  :  J),  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

kollfiyn  :  Jhon  ap  gr:  ap  Mad 
33J  i-riwabon  :  Ed:  ap  Roesser  ap  J.  ap  Ells  ap  J.  &c.. 

332  it.  badarii  vawr  :  Ric:  ap  R.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Rydd} 

ap  ^.  llwyd  &c. 
aber  sanan  TL.  gathen :  Mastyr  R.  to:  ap  syr  W.  marchog  &c. 

333  Trefor :  matlie  wyn  ap  D.  ap  Ed:  &c.* 

335  „  p.  Jhon  wyn  ap  D.  ap  Ed:  ap  ho:  &c. 

336  „  Ed:  ap  Jlion  ap  mad:  ap  Ed:  &c. 

337  „  Jhon  ap  Ed:  ap  Mred:  ap  gr:  &c. 

338  „  p.  adda  goch  &c. 

339  plant  D.  allrrai  ^  D.  /  Mad:  / 

„    Mad:  llanddyn  ap  "].  ap  adda  goch  =  D.  /  Syr  Rob:  /  &c. 
yfron  dec,  gwrexam  :  Ho:  ap  Ed:  ap  Mred:  ap  gr: 

340  Trefor  :  To;  ap  gr:  ap  mud:  &c. 

syr  John  badi  vicar  11.  gollen  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

341  JLanerchrvgoc  :  Ric:  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  Tegin  ap  Mad:  &c. 

342  Uglwysec :' Jeu:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Gwtm 

*  gytyn  ?  owain  i  gid  at  foot  of  the  page  and  4  dolen  or  llijfr  hasgl  on  the  next 
page. 

SI  M   2 


844  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  134. 

343  Henllan  y  grin  :  Jhon  siarabr  ap  Rob: 

344  Pere/Zyn  .•  a  table  of  the  descendants  of  Tudv  apgrono  q'  livw  John 
315  Edw:  almor  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  J.  &c.  trcvalvn,  alnior,  a  gresford 

346  Maelor :  plant  Mad:  ap  ftn  ap  gruffri  &c. 

347  Jhon  Tvefor  tref  alvn  &c. 

348  TL.  evrgain  :  Hari  konwy  o  Sych  dyn  &c. 

349  Evnnvdd  ap  morien  ap  morgenav  &c.* 

350  p.  toraas  gilrain  o  glostedsir  a  ddoeth  i  hynaf  [o]  dref  llwt/n 
llinon  is  gwrvai  am  ladd  gwr  ac  am  hynny  i  ffoes  allan  oi  wlad  ,  .  . 
o  gilmin  troetv  yr  enwir  . 

b.  kydeivain  :  p.  Mathe  goch  =  Jhon  prys,  lewys  prys  &c.  ■ 

351  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Jhon  konwy. 

353  A  table  of  the  Descendants  of  Mr.  Pirs  archiagon  (1)  o  sioned, 
(2)  o  wenllian,  (.i)  o  vorfydd 
356-7  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Ehirid  flaidd  and  of  vchdrvd 

357  Botfarv  :  Wm:  ap  tomas  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  &c. 

358  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  ][thel  vychan 

362  Tomas  a  pris  raostya  =  meibiou  Ric:  ap  ho:  ap  J.  &c.f 
3fi5  y  il]/s  yn  ''■  evrgain  \_Northop]  :  tabl  o  blant  a  disgynyddion 
Edwin  freiihiu  tegaingl  o  werydd  v5  gynvyn  =  vchdry,  ywain  &c. 

367  Kilken  :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  tomas  ap  deio 

368  JL. Elwy, bodlwiddon,yvaenolaphengwern .-p. to: apR. apbened 
.S7l)  Bi-yn  Vsgvh  yn  henllan  nev  ffoxol :  IPowlk  llwyd  ap  pirs  J 

372  Y  Dref  wen:  syr  Mevric  llwyd,   Roger   estwic,  gronwy   ac 

Owain  =  meibion  syr  Roger  Powys  [Roesser 

Mabon  glochvdd  ap  gwyn  var  ap  gwyn  veryw  &c.  Uyfr  Ed:  ap 

373  llyn  —  //.  beris  —  kastellmarch  :  p.  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  Hn  &c. 

375  S.  gaernarfon,  k.  y  krevddvn  :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  R.  ap  ttn  &c. 

376  lleyn  [  bodf'ael  j  llanfawr  :  p.  J.  ap  madoc  ap  ho:  &c. 

377  Botwnoc  :  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  Gr:  ap  D. 

379  graianoc  ynghlynnoo :  p.  katria  v3  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  gi';  &c. 
3H0  syr  pirs  newtwn  a  briodes  sian  v}  sieflfre  kyfSn  &c. 

381  \Am  ddiwedd  Arthur —  a  fragment  of  the  end — Ac  oddyna  y 
dywededic  abad  hwnnw  o  arch  a  dysc  hari  vrenhin  a  beris  ^vrnevthvr 
ysgrin  adderchawc  o  vaen  marmor  a  dodi  esgyn  arthur  j'nddi  &c. 

b.  kwstenin  ap  kadwr  ap  gwrlais  &c. 

c.  kynan  meiriadoc  oedd  nai  vab  brawd  i  evdaf  &c. 

d.  Brief  chronicles  referring  to  the  battle  of  Shrewsbury  1403  &c. 

382  O.K.  1429  y  bv  varw  Jankyn  hanmer  gwyl  saint  vixent 
1430  y  peris  gwenhwyvar  holbiais  wnevthvr  pent  owrtvn  &c. 
Mae  n  darvod  y  glod  y  gler  ni  cherir    Na  chware  na  haelder 

Na  gwyliav  pann  i  gweler     Nac  aberth  rad  nowddgad  ner      Haw  S.  V'n 

383 §  Arfe ;  (1)  Jvor  petit  (2)  Syr  Raff  maeloc 

re  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  gr:  ap  Jvor  "petit  last  lord  of  Sant  geneth  &c. 
re  Ho:  ap  Mred:  ap  kad  ap  Jestin  lord  ryal  of  Meisgin  &e. 

385  re  Herbert  knyght  beryd  at  Margan  the  lord  of  Skurlage 
castell  att  Uangewyth  &c  .  .  .  gave  &  granted  in  fee  almysded 
all  herre  landes  &  wodes  p*  he  hadde  in  kilthe  kolum  &o. 

386  Asquyer  caolyd  hopkyn  ap  ho:  vychan  .  .  .  weddyd  a  gentell 
woman  of  Cidychallthe  kaolyd  gweullian  &c. 

388  IFylip  ap  Adam  v'n  ap  Adam  .  .  .  was  anse^tr  to  my  lord  herbert. 


*  Uyfr  ^.  trevor  or  hob. 

t  copi  0  lyfr  ymhlas  Mr  Pirs  Mostyn  a  gad  gan  rohert  iachwr — see  the  end  of 
the  pedigree  p.  364. 

J  Descended  from  Henry  Rosyndal— copi  o  law  Mr.  Wmffre  llwyd  with  an  extract 
from  a  charter  of  Edward  I  dated  1287. 

§  Pages  383 — 91  are,  according  to  a  statement  in  the  hand  of  Rob:  Vaughan, 
extracted  from  the  White  Booh  of  Hergest,  hut  not  by  Gr:  Hiraethog.  Pages 
429-30  belong  to  this  part, 


LLTVYR  MAWE  6E:   ^IRAETHOG.  845 

S89  Roger  dwnfernyll  barwn  of  penbrwk  maryd  the  Erl  of  warwic 
is  dochter  &  gat  a  doghter  by  her  &c. 

390  Rys  7evank  ap  gi':  ap  yr  arg:  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  Tewdwr  &c. 

391  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Tomas  ap  Ita  !ip  0. 

392  Pen  machno :  R.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

393  Tudyr  trevor  ap  ynyr  ap  kadrfrvch 

Randir  Jlhel  vehjn  ap  tin  aur  dorchoc :  Vii  ial — llys  y  kilall, 
gymbebyr,  bod  anwydoc  //  ynyffrtjn  khoyd — Nanklwyd  a  garth 
y  nevadd  //  yn  ystryd  alvn  —  Uwyu  egryn,  Gwern  affillt,  kil  rredyn 
a  heudre  biffa  //  ynhegaingl — kaer  vallwch  a  hendre  vigill,  pentref 
hyfaidd  a  chastell  meirchion  &c. 

394  JL.  lidian  a  roes  esgob  bangor  1  ]fer:  ap  kar^v■^d  vn  rrydd 
iddaw  ef  ac  yn  gaeth  ir  tenantiaid  ac  am  nad  vfvddhaent  wy  iw 
orchymvn  ef  y  torres  ef  benn  y  naill  ar  arnodd  i  aradr  lie  gelwir  erw 
y  bengloc  etc.  S.  V. 

394  D.  klwyd.  Randir  Rys  ap  Marckaii  —  tref  benn  y  koed  ar 
vjnechdid,  kil  y  groeslwyti,  pant  mvgan  //  bryn  y  golwc  i  gelvvid 
gynt  lie  mae  eglwys  IL.  vwroc  //  yr  erw  drwm  i  llwyth  y  gelwid  lie 
mae  kastell  rrvthyn  S.  V. 

395  Arfe  (1)  Ho:  howlbwrch,  (2)  kvneda  wledic,  (3)  R.  llwyd, 
(4)  Bleddyn  ap  niaeuyrch,  (5)  karadoc  vreichfras  &c. 

396  Vchelwyr  yr  hendwr:  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  &e. 

397  Deoii  llan  ehcy  :  hiiw  ap  f.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

398*  {k.  os.swaUt):  Morys  ap  Wm:  ap  Bdu:  ap  gr:  &c. 

Dyffryn  melan  —s.  Dinhych  :  Wm:  wynn  ap  J.  Wynn  &c. 

402  Arfe  Ric:  aens  vel  Einws  o  straytyn  ganol  ystrttyn:  Ric: 
Einws  ap  to;  E.  ap  J.  E.  o  rvwtyn  yn  11.  viangel  llychantvn 

403  Ric:  hangmer  yn  yr  eglwys  wen  /  Ed:  ymangor  &c. 

405  S.  G.  Vyrddin — treflech  :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Eiuon  &c. 

406  Arfe  pirs  bewpei 

407  Arfe  Ric:  brad  iiort  ap  water  &c. 

Wm:  ap  ftn  ap  Owen  a  wnaeih  y  plas  ymhentre  Jevan 
A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Owen  ap 

408  Syr  Jhon  prys,  o  gyngor  twyssowglys  mars,  ap  R.  ap  Gim  &c. 
plant  Syr  siames  bowen  o  vaii  heils  &c. 

409  Brycheinoc — II.  deilo  :  Jhon  ap  glm  ap  D.  ap  gim  &c. 

„  ykaere  ym  hlwyf  if  an  :  ho:  ap  Roesser  ap  To:  &c. 

410  Aber  hodni :  itn  ap  T.  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  syr  D.  gam  ap  ho:  v'n 

411  Eyas :  Sion  ap  Tomas  ap  Watgyn  ap  T.  ap  gr:  &c. 
Gwenl:  Jhon  a  hari  meib  Tomas  ap  Tomas  &c. 

J.  ap  gtm  o  gilwch  ap  To:  ap  gim  ap  iin  ap  ho:  v'u 

412  Tho:  Havart  ap  Rob:  havart  &c. 

K,.  vihangel  vechan  :  Ho:  ap  Gim  ap  ho:  &c. 

Penn  ederyn  :  Morgan  ap  To:  ap  morgan  ap  1).  gam  &c. 

413  Gwent  is  koed  =  y  morfa  :  Jhon  gams  ap  J.  ap  Watgyn  &c. 
krvc  ho'l :  Mred:  ap  mred:  ap  watlcyn  &c. 

port  gwyn,  gallt  brengv  :  Wallter  ap  morgan  .  .  ap  syr  D.  gam 

414  Talgarth  :  Syr  Roger  vychan  ap  syr  W.  v'n  &c. 

415  s.  henfford:  Tomas  ap  morgan  ap  Gtm  ap  D.  &c. 

henffor  :  syr  Jhon  prys  marchoc  ap  R.  ap  gim  gwynn  ap  Yin 
ap  Gim  ap  Rys  llwyd  ap  Adam  ap  R.  ap  Einion  sais 

416  Tref  Esgoh^ hwnstabl :  Lewys  Jhons  ap  Jankyn  .  .  ap  Adam  &c. 
Ho:  penherdd  o  brydydd  ap  D.  ap  "j.  ap  R.  llwyd  ap  Adam  &c. 
p.  iin  ap  Gim  ap  Rys  llwyd  =  Jankyn,  Gim  gwynn  &c. 


*  0  law  Dd:  bentiwr  at  bottom  of  page  398  and  llyfr  o  law  Ed:  ap  Uvgcr  yn  y 
hasle[ll]  *  »  »  at  bottom  of  page  399.  Pages  399-400  are  m  a  luiutl  diifenng 
from  the  rest  of  the  MS.  .and  the  leaf  is  misplaced  here— page  401  is  in  coutinuation 
of  page  398. 


846  PeniAr'M  manuscript  134. 

417  Gr:  penkerdd  ac  athro  telyn  ap  Hn  ap  Gtm  gwynn 

418  Gefenni :  Jams  gwnter  ap  watkyn  gwnter 

419  kastell  anoydd:  syr  Water  herber  ap  syr  siors  herber:  &c. 
meisgin  :  p.  y  bach  ap  gwaithvoed=gr:  goec,  mad:  /  gronw  g03 
Sainghenydd :  Mad;  ap  ho:  velyn  ap  gr:  ap  ^vor  peti* 

420  Powi/s,  meifod :  Morys  ap  To:  ap  mred:  &c. 
llan  daf :  Tomas  ap  Ed:  ap  lewys  ap  Richart* 

421  lielynoc  fawr :  p.  Toraas  ap  gr:  ap  [fankynf 

422  Traivs  vynydd  :  Ed:  /  W.  /J.  /  To:  =  m'b  gr:  ap  fankyn  ap  R. 

424  P.  Eys  llwyd  or  gydros  =  D.  hen  /  ydai  /  &c.  &c. 

425  Ho:  ap  gr:  tref  goed  ap  mad:  ap  jfer:  &c, 

y  dreiven :  Ed:  ap  mathe  ap  ]).  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
427  A  genealogical  table  :  Ynyr  ap  Cadvarj  &c. 
Pages;429-30  belong  to  page  383  &c.  above,  and  treat  of  the  Erledom  of  Corn- 

vial,  ^'^vor petit, 
431  p.  Rob:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  madoc  &c.  =  Jhon,  ]feuan, 
Harri,  Eys  (a  briodes  dvw  wraic)  Morgan  (yngwsaneth  ](ar]l  derbi 
a  heb  priodi  1558)  &c.  &c.  and  their  descendants. 

444  &  452  ILecheiddior — yvionydd :  Lewys  ap  jf.  ap  E.  &c. 

Gressffordd:  Rob:  gwynedd  ap  Jhon  ap  ^.  &c. 

445  Jal :  5  merched  tiriol  E.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c.  o  vodidris  a  11.  verys 
D.  khoyd :  Ho:  ap  mad:  ap  kyn:  ap  ho:  &c. 

Mred:  ap  kwnws  .  .  a  barodd  gwnevthvr  kroes  fredydd  ger 

Haw  iryd  y  kilgwyn 
II.  fwroc  :  Eob:  ap  ho:  ap  madoc  &c. 
//.  ynys  maes  maen  liymro :  Simwnt  ap  Rob:  ap  fin  &c. 

446  masfr  mprys  athro  yscol  kroes  osswallt  ap  morys  ap  gr: 

447  ystyni  hegid :  p.  Owen  ap  Jhon  Owen  &c.     155S 

448  yjionydd  porth  trevddyn  IL.  vihangel    y   penant :    William 

ap  Eys  ap  Tudr  &c. 
mam  R.  vychan  o  gors  y  gedol  =  marged  perod  &c. 

449  Twrkelyn:  Tudr  ap  ho:  ap  R.  ap  iho:  &c. 
meib  kadrod  hardd  =  gwrydr,  Edn:  /  Owain  &c. 

450  muchnant  gartheryr   kefn  y    hitarth :  syr  Reinallt  person  U. 

armon  glyn  keirioc  &c. 
hefnir  ymochnant :  p.  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  madoc  &c. 
ZL.  gadwaladr  :  D.  ap  ^eu:  ap  ho:  ap  gr; 
maes  viochnant :  Jhon  ap  Wm;  ap  Mred:  &c. 

451  ILecliciddior  yn  eiddionydd ;  Eob:  .ip  Eissiart  ap  Rob:  &c. 

453  Bach  y  saint  „  p.  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c, 
Brynnkeino  .  p.  Rob:  v/yn  ap  ^.  ap  Jhon  &c. 

yjionydd  is  dtvyfor—llys  ynghefn  y  vann :  J.  ap  ho;  ap  Mred:^ 

454  kyvelioc  :  Morgan,  tho:  ao  VVmffre  meib  D.  ap  ho:  ap  0.  &c. 

455  y  JLanerch  vawr,  llanvawr,  lleyn  :  mei-ched  Gr:  ap  ftn  ap  gr: 

456  hastell  march,  lleyn :  Gr:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  .  .  .  .  Rhiw. 

457  swyddinbych  hymwd  issaled :  meibion  Rob:  ap  Mred:  =  Rob: 

'/  ho:  /  Morys  gethin  &c. 

ac  vel  hi/n  y  tervynci  yr  Tache  a  henwyd  vchod  o  waith 
Tudur  [^]Zcrf  a  Robin  ']achv}r 

463  Tegaingl :  f.  ap  kyn:  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

]thel  ap  %  v}chiin  &c.  ai  frodvr  syr  J a  hvw  or  hil 

Tho;  ap  E.  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  benfras  &c, 
gulgre  :  Tomas  ap  b.  ap  Edwart  &c. 

464  Dimeirchion:  p.  Rowling  ap  M'  J.  ap  ^thel  &c. 


•  li.,fr  J  i?«6— kopy  0  law  hu5  llyn 

t  Gan  O.  nnvul  i  kad  hyn  sydd  yiiia  o  tbysrwydd.    See  aUo  bottom  of  p.  423. 

J  Kuis  w.wj  (/an  liic:  ap  Gr:  or  yii'ynfryn. 


GJIIFFITH   HIRAETHOG  ETC.  847 


465  gwlgre,  II.  hassa :  Ed:  ap  Morgan  ap  tomas  &c. 

471  %s  goch  or  yri  ap  D.  ap  ]f.  llwyd  ap  Eirid  &c.    Rob:V'n. 

474  &  476  Index  to  some  names  in  the  MS. 


MS.  135  =  Hen.  104.  Pedigrees,  IJrief  Chronicle,  and 
AiiMORiAL  Bearixos  bf  Griffith  Hiraethog  in  whose  hand  nenrly  all 
the  MS.  is  written.  Paper;  about  8x6  inches;  410  pages;  1556-64; 
corners  repaired  throughout — text  slightly  imperfect  in  some  places ; 
half  bound. 

5  Index  by  Gr:  Hiraethoc 
26  (Sir  huw  Cholmdeley  [sic]  1593  ap  liic.  ap  Eic.  ap  Sir  huw  C.) 
31  Jhon  trevor  o  loigyntonn  ap  Edw;  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Edn:  gam 

46  Mam  syr  Eoger  kinast,  a  Jankyn  hen  kinast  &c. 

47  LI.  egri/n — fre  beniarth :  yu  y  dre  hon  lie  gelwir  Uwyn  y  gardd  yn  ymyl 
maes  ynevadd  rrwng  moel  gwely  y  sarff  a  deav  or  llcwin  ?  yni  He  h\  adail  mawr 
y  brigs  [bricks]  etto  iw  gweled  affenestriyu  y  ddayar  ac  ir  oedd  yllawr  wedi 
pafio  o  gerie  ysgwar  ar  Ivii  disie  kasestric  j'n  disgeimo  to  o  glai  yn  gyutaf  to  o 
dywod  yn  nessaf  a  tho  o  galch  ao  yn  hwnnw  y  keric  ysgwar  wedi  gossod 

kijnuod  ystymanair — LI.  vihangel  ;iani ;  kastell  y  byr   [Bere]  He  bv  adeilad 
mawr  kadarn  .      .  .  a  ehvir  yn  y  sekr  sinadon  hasteU 

48  Ystryd  alvii .  J.  wyn  ap:  gr:  ap  D.  llwyd 

49  A  bi-ief  Chronicle* ending  with  the  rising  of  Owen  Glgndwr: 
M.  cc.  XXX  kyn  krist  y  doeth  brutus  ir  ynys  hon  &c. 

D.  xvj  y  ganed  arthur  .  .  ac  y  lias  yny  gad  gamlan  540  &c.  , 

M  cc  xviii  y  torrcd  pont  kaer  vyrddin 

M  cc  XXX  y  kabad  kastell  nedd  .  .  .  i  daliwyd  glm  brewys  &c. 

1318  y  rroddes  y  brenhin  y  kantref  mawr  i  hv  ysbenser  jev'k  &c. 
59-65  M  cccc  .  .  ,  yr  haf  nessaf  wedi  hynny  y  kyvodes  Ywain  ar 
y  cliwigeinved  o  ddireidwyr  a  lladron  ac  y  ddaeth  ef  ac 
wynt  ar  ry^el  i  flaenav  keredigion  ac  yno  ydd  ymgynvllawdd 
mil  a  lianer  o  wyr  bro  goredigion  a  rros  a  pheufro  ac 
yddaethant  ir  mynydd  i  geissiaw  dala  Owain  ac  ar  vynydd 
hyddgant  y  bv  yr  ymgyfarvod  ryddynt  ac  yn  gytnaid  ac  y 
troes  y  llv  seissnic  ev  kefnav  yffo  y  lias  cc  o  honyw 
ac  yna  y  doeth  gair  mawr  i  Owain   ac  y  kyvodes  attaw  ran 

vawr   or    yfiengtid    &c M  cccc  iiii    y  kafas    Owain 

kestyll  .  .  harddlech  aber  ystwyth  yn  .  .  y  flwyddyn  houo 
i  bv  y  Uaddfa  ar  gymrv  ar  vynydd  kamstwn  ar  Hall  ar  y 
saesson  ar  graio  y  dorth  .  .  .  -l^OS  y  bv  lladdfa  .  .  ar 
vynydd  pwll  melyn  wrtli  frynn  buga  ac  yna  y  delid  C+r:  ap 
Owain  .  .  .  yna  yr  ymroddes  hoU  vorgannwc  ir  saesson 
.  .  .  IJ/OO  yr  ymroddes  gwyr  ystrat  towi  a  chan  mwyaf 
garedigion  yn  seissnic  ....  1409  i  gwnaeth  0.  gyrch  i 
ystlys  swydd  yrawythic  ac  y  daliodd  y  saesson  Eys  dv  a 
ffylpott  ysgidnior  ac  yddacth  i  Ivndain  ar  Hall  i  aniwythic 
i  llvsgaw  ac  iw  chwartoriaw  ac  o  hynny  allan  ni  wnaeth 
Owain  gyrch  mawr  oni  aeth  mewn  difant.  1.513  ydd 
aeth  owain  mewn  difant  .  .  .  o  hynny  allan  ni  wybvwyd  i 
ddifant  rran  fawr  a  ddywaid  i  varw  y  brvdwyr  a  ddywedaut 
na  bv  .  .  .  .  ends.  M  cccc  xx[ii]  y  bv  varw  Heuri  [v] 
.  .  ac  yddewis  Henrri  vychan  i  fab  yn  frenbin  yr  hwn  nid 
'  oedd  gwbl  flwyddyn  o  oedraii  y  koronhawyd  ac  y  kyssegrwyd 

yu  frenhin  a  hwnnw  ddywaid  y  brvdwyr  mac  koronoc  vaban 
yw  a  ddywawd  merddia  wyllt  am  danaw  gynt. 


*   Ysfli-iveiia  gopi  o  groniyl  Edw:  Hi  Richar  n  a  hari  iv  i   Owen  ap  Jhon  ap  R. 
0  drefeihr  ii  ai  addeu-aiet  a  danvon  iddo  vo  val  y  mae  yn  y  Ihjfr  yma  (p.  .''•8). 


848  PUNlARM  MANUSCRIPI'  135. 

6G  O  oes  gwrtheyrn  gwrthenav  ....  ends:  or  pan  ddoeth 
iioi-ddmyn  gyutaf  byd  y  frwydr  yn  derwyn  vn  vlwyddyn  a 
chweohant  a — left  unfinished. 

74  p.  J.  kotyn  [=Gotton]  aig:  wpol  a  whityntwn  o  ymy]  kotsol 

75  Sir  gaer  lleon  :  Syr  To:  dytwn  ap  J.  D.  ap  syp  pirs  D.  &c. 

79  p.  Gr:  hangraer  o  elen  v)   Syrr  pers  dyttwn  =  Eychart  &c. 

80  p.   Syr  To:  hangmer  ap  liychart  H.  &c. 

83  )  f anltyn  don  y  bv  vab  =  Syr  J.  don  &  his  descendants 
85   Swydd  g.  lleon  :  syr  John  eirlond  ap  Wm:  eirlond  &c. 
87  p.  Kicbard  gravenor  o  eytyn  boote  &c. 
89  Maelor  Saesnec :  Syr   Tho:  banmer   ap  syr  T.  ap  Eychart 

&c.  a  briodes  katrin  Salter  .  .  o  groes  Oswallt  . 
97  FAhv.  brvwtwn  ap  J.  b.  ap  Edw:  b.  ap  W.  b.  &c. 

102  Margred  v3  Hari  a  briodes   frenhin    ysgotlond  ac  iddi  bv  vab 
ac  ir  mab  i  bv  vj  sydd  heddiw  .  i362  .  frenliines  ysgotlond  &c. 

103  Garth  tri/r :  p.  lewys  kyffin  ap  J.  ap  W.  &c. 

105  Mers :  Jhon  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  ho:  &c. 

D.  ap  f.  ap  Jaukyn  ap  Hn  &c. 
Jankyn  ap  J.  ap  D.  lloyd  &c.* 

106  Maelor:  Roger  deka  ap  D.   deka  vychan  &c. 
rriioabon—rrvddnlil:*  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Mad;  &c. 

107  histiomjdd:  Jhon  a[)  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  &c. 

»  ?•  '^P  g''-  H^  JKdw:  ap  D.  &e. 

108  „  f.  ap  Edw:  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

„  Eoger  ap  gr:  ap  mad:  ap  gr:  &c. 

109  Maelor:  ftn  sais  ac  jfthel  goch  meib  ttu  ap  mad:  ap  Eniou  &c. 

110  D.  klicyd:  p.  Gr:  goch  ap  'j.  ap  D.  vychan  <fcc. 

,,  p.  Twiia  ap  J.  ap  D.  vychan  &c.f 

111  D.li.,llj.  vair,plasenion  :  p.  EogerapHn=J.  /  to: /gvvenllian&c. 
115  IL.vair — pentre  ky helyn :  J.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  Eob;  &c. 

117    Trefalvn:  W.  ap  I),  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

119  „         „       To:  ap  lanslod  ap  W.  ap  gr:  &c. 

120  bwrlvn  y maelor :  J.  /To:/  a  D.  =  meib  lewys  ap  ho:  &c. 

121  Eoger  Eodyn  ap  Wm:  E.  ap  Jhon  Eodyn  o  bwlfiordd  .  156l  , 

123  Eoger  ap  J.  ap  Eowlin  ap  Mad:  &c. 
saith  m}  ^.  ap  Jin  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 

124  j4  table  of  the  descendants  o/'ftn  ap  ^er:  drwyndwn 

125  kriliol :  p.  Ells  kiuaston  o  gatrin  hanmer  o  lys  bedydd 

127  hanced    vynydd    yn    IL.    vfydd :    Tyvid    vorsoc    and     his 

descendants  .   136o  . 

128  Kadwgon  ap  ystrwytb.  ai  bias  nr  benn  y  fronn  fawr  &o. 

hcnllan .  Eissiart  ap  syr  To:  ap  D.  ap  E.  &c. 
12Q  Moel  y  gaer  tre  tin  kadfael :  jfthel  llwyd  ap  kadwgon  syr 

michel  mwnt  o  eirioes 
130-5   Genealogical  tables  showing  the  descendants  of  Arg:  Eixton, 
and  Phylip  [Hanmerj 

137  liwyn  y  maen :  J  vred:  llwyd  ap  Mad:  llwyd  i  bv  2  fercli  &c. 

138  A  table  showing  the  maternal  descent  of  Eobt:  Salbri  Acf 

139  syr  morys  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  ap  J.  vychan  &c.§ 
Tegaingl:  pics  ap  hvw  llwyd  ap  ^thel  &c. 

140  Gresffordd — Burlvn :  Eoger  ap  J.  wyn  ap  Eowlyng  &c.:|: 

141  D.  klwyd:  John  ap  leuan  ap  gronwy  &c.  Haw  S.  vychan 

142  Bwrlvn;  Wm:  ap  Eob:  ap  ftn  ap  D.  &c. 


*  tliffr  Ed:  lip  Rnijcr 

{g.  leihcr  Simwnt  a  c/ad  ijan  Eiho:  (Ip  Jlwiu 
liber  liic:  /nm^'ur '(pp.'l38-41}. 
I  lli/fr  hen  (lerson  llan  elian 


GRIFFITH  HIKAETHOG  ETC.  849 

14B  A  table  of  the  descetidanls  of  Gv:  Vychan* 

147-8         „  „  „  J.  llwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  gronwyf 

149  „  „  „  J.  ap  nynioj 

150  JFrodsUy  :  Edw:  Scriven  ap  Tlio:  Scriveii  &c. 

151  tre  sychdijn  yn  II.  evrgain  :  Had  a|)  jf.  ap  lewys  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Syclidyu  .   lewys  ap  if.  ap  dai  ap  f .  &c. 

152  „  K}n:  ap  f.  ap  D.  ap  kyn:  &c. 

153  Sciant    pvesentes  .  .  .  Wni:  Tvoutbek    miles  Edw;  ffaton  .  . 

J.  ffiton  &c. 
Uys  yn  II.  evrgain  :  Rondl  bylyntwn  ap  Eondl  bylynton  &c. 

154  Givepra  :  Pyrs  a  Ric:  meib  D.  ap  Jthel  &c.  [.  1562  . 

155  Tre  L.  eurqain — y  vanachloc  redyn  :  Kyn  ap  Ric;  ap  lewys  &c. 
y  plas  yn  y  gelchoc :  lewys  ap  f.  ap  D.  ap  Mad;  &c. 

156  Tre  L.  E.  plas  Gn  gethin  ac  icerthid  yn  hangmer  :  J.  iwng  &c. 

157  ,,  kwr  koed  yfflin  :  Rys  ap  Ric:  ap  Morys  &c. 
„  Hari  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

158  „  plas  D.  ap  Jthel  v'n  :  My  ifthel  ap  Jeuan  ap  'Jlliel  &<i. 
„  J.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

159  IL,  Eurgain — k.  vallwch :  J.  ap  Ric:  ap  Tomas  &c. 
„  To:  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  ^thel  <S;c. 
„  Hvw  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  nicolas  &c. 
„               To;  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  mred:  &e. 
„               D.  llwyd  ap  Gr:  llwyd 
vallwch:  Elis  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  hvw 
„            Robert  ap  R.  ap  deio  ap  '].   itc. 

;  To:  gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  vychau  &a. 
166  Mam  Gr;  or  rvddallt  —  GweuUian  V3  )thel  v'n  &c. 

169  Bron  ymannod — TL.frothen:  p.  hvw  ap  "].  ap  hvw  &c. 
II.  ystvndioij — trefan  :  J.  ap  Wm:  ap  ]f.  ap  Rys  &c. 

170  plant  Rhys  llwyd  or  bettws  ....  heddiiv  1561  . 

171  Mara  Tudr  ap  Gronwy  &c.  &c. 

„      Morys  gethin  =  lowri  V3   ho:  ap  gr:  goch   &c. 

172  Conwy:  the  descendants  0/ ArgVeaiyytwii  a  Hogev  arg:  Rixton. 
Hvw  ap  tonias  ystodart  ap  Roger  ystodart  &c. 

173  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Jeuaa  ap  Einiou 

174  „  „  „  ILn  ap  gr:   .   .    G.  yriw  yn  llyn 
„              ,,              „            Rowling  salbri  o  Lyweni 

175  „  „  „  tangno 

177  Swydd  gowres  plwyf  yr  ystoc — Bachelldref :  p.  &c.  Rob:  ;ip 
rririd  ap  lolyn  o  fvlltvn 
The  Armorial  devices,  nearly  all  coloured,  of : — • 
185  Derby. /p.  188,  Tliomas  Bfiliok  ./p.  189,  Syr  Thos;  Fowkys 
191  Rye;  Egertou  .  /  p.  192,  Syr  George  Caufley 

193  Syr  Rondyl  poole  /  Rye:  Shumley  /  W.  holford  /  T.  Wylbiawi . 

194  J.  BestoQ  /  Rye:  Sneyde/  Rye:  hwch  /  Rondyl  Browtun 

195  Syr  Jhon  do"one/Syr  Henry  delues  /  Syr  Rycbard  Huston/ 

Syr  Pers  Warberton 

196  Syr  Tho:  Butler /Tho:  Garat/ J.  damport/Ryc:  Graucner 

197  Syr  .John  Wogon  /  Syr  Robert  Nedham  knyght 

201  The  Heiberts  /  Syr  Tho:  Salydbri  /  Syr  Tho:  kynnntou 

202  Syr  piler  nc;\  ton  /  Syr  D.  holbage  /  kynevik  sais 

203  Jonn  Hwkys  /  Syr  Rye:  bwckle  /  spenser  /lamffort 

204  John  Ryd  /  p.  205,  Thomas  vnedale 

209   Gr:  ap  kadivor  /  D.  grand  /  Gr:  ap  'Jankyu  /  katlivcr  ap  dinawal 


161 

>j 

162 

)> 

163 

164 

koed 

y  kran — k. 

)» 

165  Pant 

y  llongdy 

*  copi  0  li/fr  Ml'  Ircfor  tnf  alvii 
t  tl/ifr  GiUtyn  Owen  in  later  haQd, 
j  liy/r  Edw:  ap  ligcseer 


850  peniahTh  manuscript  135. 

210  kornwal  /  Pen  rrys  /  syi-  J.  styrfcon  [shotbrwke 

211  Arg:  ystaens  /  syr   Wm:  trwssel  /  syr  E..  molynwys  /  syr  Rob: 

212  lord  Ros  /lord  botrewys  /loi-d  leminonde  /  lord  welles 

21 3  syr  J.  connsown  /  syr  T.  Gronet  /  Syr  T.  stradlyng  /  Hawey 

215  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Hii  ap  ynyr  /  lord  morle  /  Evnydd  iaach  /  Kelvuin 

216  lord  scrwp  of  wpsal  /  lord  cromwel  /  lord  samhopo  /  lord  latimer 

217  sarnam  /  syr  J.  baOthrod  /  syr  T.  kyrell  /  Ho:  ap  ^eva 

218  lord  diptofft  /lord  ponyng/lord  hungerford /lord  clinton 

219  Syr  Jhon  morgant/  Wm:  vychan  /  Adam  o  went/  Henrri  dwnn 

220  pyrs  kanibre  (unfiuished) 

221  Duk  o  huntinton  /  Erl  arudel  /  Erl  of  diff'n  /  Erll  of  Els 

222  lord  bary  /  Erll  of  wrmwd  /  Erll  of  desmwnt  /  lord  gray  kottnor 
223-4  lord  louell  /  lord  haryngton  /  lord  ssewater  /  lord  cobam 

225  Syr  J.  Rodnev  /  lord  Say'/  Erll  of  Oxford  /  lord  Scrop  of  botton 

226  syr  H.  yngloOes  /  syr  R.  slialotes  /  syr  J.  kryston  /  syr  T.  Ma6rth 

227  estiii  ap  gwrgan  /  lleisson  ap  morgan  /  O.  ap  J.  /  syr  water  ashton 

228  syr  W.  beaushomp  /  syr  W.  wdvil  /  syr  Raif  verncn  /  anon 

229  lord  Pwys  /  syr  J.  RadclyfE  /  lord  parr  / 

230  Gyles  damOuay  /  syr  W.  cheny /syr  J.  crecy  /  Syr  R''  bastings 

231  Syr    W.    Nores   /  Syr    Tho:    Yngylffeld   /   Syr  J.  lonjjford/ 

Sheast:  brok  [Bassell  /  151ontes 

232  &  250  Master  Roger  of  Hamshyr  /  Mongeoe  or  Blontes  /  M"' 

233  ifetepas  /  Lothers  /  Master  Horn 

234  Klytford  /  Ludlow   /  Gravener 

235  Hector,  Alexander,  Siwliwssisar,  }ndas  makabiws,  D.  brofFwyd, 
Due  )oswe,  Arthur  ap  vther  pendragon,  jfarlemaen,  Godfre  o  fwlen 

238-9  syr  hvgb  de  panton,  Anna  hibernie 

242  Rosyndal,  foxols,  Rob:  pigod,  pek,  ardren,  whytager  &c. 

244  Cbarles  Rygwood,  bagnal,  mevric  koch  o  ddyfed 

247  fFetipas,  Mastr  borne,  Syr  Tho:  kinaston,  Rich:  Gravener 

248  Syr  Alixander  mylltyn,  Riddid  ap  y  pothan,  Hvw  bawdier 

249  Syr  W.  nores  /  Syr  T.  yngylfyld  /  Syr  J.  longford  /  M"'  bassel 

251  Pek,  Gr:  ap  Elidir,  holland.  Anon. 

252  Holant/  T.  molens  /  paytyn  Rodyn,  M''  bashe 

254  wds  /  syr — de  Mylon  /  syr  Jhon  Mortein 

255  Ystrad  alvn  :  Jhon  wyn  or  twr  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  &c. 

263  Y.  a.—pentre  hohyn  :  Jhon  Ed:  ai  frodvr  D.  /  gr:  &c. 

„  „         plant  Edw:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  R.  &c. 

264  „       Tioed  y  llai :  p.  ][thell  wyn  o  sioned  V5  hvw  Conwy  0  ros 
2G6        „   Trevddtjn  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  &c. 

tre  rwyddgric  :  Rich:  /  Jhon/Tomas  &c.  plant  Gr:  ap  R.  np  -f. 

267  Y.  A—Trevddi/n  .  Jhon  goch  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  &c. 

J,  ,,  p.  ^evan  vychan  ap  D.  ap  lin  &c.       1561. 

268  &  264  Tables  of  the  descendants  of  Meilir  ap  gron:* 

Maelor — trc  ysiansti :  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  &c.| 

269  Y.  Alvn:  D.  llwyd  ap  bleddyn  np  gr:  &c. 

270  (Leeswood)  :  Nicolas  ap  deikws  ap  gr;  op  gr:  grach  .tc. 

271  Y.  Alvn  :  Gr:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  kadwgan  AcJ 

272  .,         lioedy  llai:  p.  R.  ap  feuan  ap  Su  ap  ho:  &c. 

273  &  276  F.  Alvn  :  ]thel  wyn  ap  nicolas  ap  gwyn  ap  gr:  &c. 

274  Krikod:  D.  kinast  ap  Elis  k.  ap  Roger  kinast. 

275  hymwd  +  vaen  :   Table  of  the  descendants  o/Gr:  kinast  mab 

Jankyn  .     156S . 
277-9  Elsmer  attle  ne  Wutle :  Fransys  kynaston  vab  gorge  k.  &c. 
280  krikot :  p.  Elis  kinast  ap  Roger  ap  ffylip  &c. 
282  Sir  (i.  ynarfon  :   Table  of  the  descendants  o/Mad:  ap  Hn  v'u 


lli/fr  Edm:  ap  Rosscr.      t  a  John  Wijn  ov  iwr      %  llyfr  sion  f'f"'-  '•■'Jf"!"" 


GRIFFITH   HIRAETHOG  ETC.  SSl 

283  kardikott  ?  ;  p.  D.  hanmer  braurd  syr  To:  &c. 

284  Domoc  :  mam  vaiged  V3  Domas  Domok  &c.* 

sjT  geils  laiigle  vicar  of  chiflen  &c.  Huto  S.  Vychan 

285  BrvwtOH  :  p.  syr  W.  bruwtwn 

288  Uanerch  hanna — y  2}las  dv:  D.  ap  J.  ap  Jankyn  &.c. 

289  syr  nievric  llwyd  a  fv  farw  yn  (IdiEtifedd  drwy  i  ladd  o  syr 
ffwc  ap  gwaring  (?)  yr  liwn  aeth  ai  gyvueth  .  ac  velly  y  mae  swydd 
y  drewen  o  bynny  hyd  heddivv  a  Koger  estwic  &c. 

291    Table  of  the  descendants  of  Gronwy  ap  Tudr  ap  Rys  sais 
293  Pentre  aeron :  tomas  llwyd  ap  Roger  ap  hvw  ap  D.  &c. 

silatvn  :  tomas  hanmer  ap  Ric:  ap  D.  &e. 
295  IL.  V'l  D.  Uwyd — tref  evarth  :  eThon  wyn  ap  gr:  ap  Twna  &c. 

Garth  gynan  :  Rys  wyn  ap  gr:  ap  ^.  &c. 

pentre  hylielyn :  f  evan  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  Rob:  &c. 
29G  Nest  v}  Gr;  ap  adda  ap  gr:  ap  mad:  &c."j" 

The  Armorial  devices  (coloured')  and  brief  pedigrees  of: — 

297  Syr  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  /  syr  W.  babyngton  /  sse  waiter 

298  Syr  The:  stanle  /  lord  weliiby  /  syr  bryan  stabilton 

299  Robert  wyn  ?  /  Wm:  vachari  see  also  302  &  312 

300  kadrod  kalchvj'nydd  ^arll  Dwnstabl  ac  aig:  Swydd  Hantwa 

301  syr  Wni:  stanle  o  hwtwn 

302-3  Robpert  ap  f  er  :  /  Hwfa  ap  ^er  :  /  arg:  R.  /  Siankyn  Don 

304  Arthur  kwrtais  /  syr  W.  bwtler  /  ]f .  y  deon  bychan  o  degaingl 

305  Gr:  led  iach  ap  vehdrvd/arg:  cliffordd  /syr  Rob:  Rackliffe 

307  John  pilstwn  /  Rob:  chwitnai  /  tomas  vawr  arg:  herast 

308  Syr  Wm:  trwsel  /  syr  Jhon  Iwdlo  / 

310  syr  D.  gam  /  Einion  sais  /  Gim  ap  ho:  grach  /  phylpot  walby  / 

5.  ap  trahayarn  or  baeli  brith 
312  ho:  ap  ]f.  ap  Gr:  /  Hwfa  ap  ^er:  /  J.  ap  ]fer:  /  Mad:  ap  ph:  / 

314  D.  ap  y  giwn  llwyd /D.  ap  ho:/R.  ap  rrotpert 

315  Mad:  #  *  #    ap  fcr:/Hn  ap  leva/Hn  ap 

316  ]fer:  ap  matvwsalem/ kyn:  sais/madoc  krupl  / 

317  Hn  ap  Edn:  gam /syr  Roger  pilstwn  /  Hn  ap  griffri 

318  D.  ap  grono  ap  'Jtr:  /  Gr:  ap  Hn  ap  kyn:  /  Madoc  ap  Elissav 

319  Adda  goch  /  Gr:  v'n  .   .   .   .  ap  Gr:  maelor/ 

320  To:  ap   Hn  .  .  .  .  ap   yr  arg:    R  /  Ph:   ap   ifor   arg:    iskoed 

kredigiou  /Hn  ap  gr:  a  las  ymvellt 

321  Hn  ap  mred:  /  raaelgwn  v'n  ap  maelgwn  ap  yr  arg:  E./ftii  ap 

^ur:  drwyndwn  [R.  mechyll  / 

S22-3  arg:   ystraens/ 711161   vachan  /  Rickert   ap  kad' /  ^arll   khir  / 
324-5  arg:    Dwdle  /  gr:    arg:   Dinas   bran  /  Ywain  gwynedd  /  Gr: 

ap  kynan / Evnydd 
826-8  syr  W.  pwl  /  ]farll  klar  /  liwva  ap  ^er:  /  ho:  ap  ]feu:  arglwj'dd 

kydewaiu  /  Grono  ap  Owain 
329  Yn  amser  kadwaladr  vendigaid  .  .  ]  doeth  dirvawr  vaiwohielk 
ir  deinas  honn  &c.  Then  follow  the  children  &c.  of  kynan  tin- 
daethwy,  Merfin  frych  /  Rodri  mawr/Gr:  ap  kynan  /  ^fos'.in  ap 
Gwrgan  /  Elystau  glodrydd  /  R.  ap  Tewdwr  /  bleddyn  ap  kyiifyn  / 
Gwinav  dav  frevddwyd;]:  /  kariadoc  ap  Jcstin  /  Elystan  glodrydd  /  D. 
goch  /  gi-:  vychan  / 

332  Mam  Rob:  ap  Ric:  ap  syr  Rog:  pilston  =  llevkv  V3  M  id:  voel 

333  plant  gr:  ap  gr:  ap  "j.  ap  Rys  &c.§ 


*  ft  Ihifr  qvltijn  oweu  .  ,      ,  ^ 

t  Haw  viorys  ap  J.  ap  ''EinioJi  in  wliat  appears  to   be  ui  the  autograph  of  (j. 

Iliracthog.  ,  , ,.  .  , ,  . , 

X  U;if'  ^^^'-  ^''''''  "P  ^'''"'''  nrchddiacon  mr  veuwnrjdd  .  .  mil  gwir, 
§  liyfr  0  vudri/n 


^52  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   135. 

334  syr  Elis  person  dulgelle  vab  Eissiart  ap  ho:  &c. 

335  gwraic  hvw  pilstvvnapsir  J.  P.  =  margedv)  hvw  ap  Edvv:  &c. 

336  kaer  Einion  :  syr  R.  wyn  persou  11.  gadf'an  ap  Mved:  ap  ho:  &c, 

„  „  Rys  ap  mathe  ap  gr:  wyn  &c. 

337  hvw  a  sioned  plant  elis  ap  hari  ap  kyn:  &c. 

388  rros  II.  drillo  :  Hvw  konwy  ap  Robin  ap  gr:  goch  &c.* 

339  Yn  y  ffenestr  yn  II.  ynys  arfe  ]fthel  ap  grono  ap  hoi  &c. 

340  Arfe  Hn  ap  Mad:  ap  engion  &c. 

341  Pen  maehno  :  plant  Rys  ap  Eob:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
f.  goch  ap  Rys  ap  Robert  ymlaen  kessail  &c. 
Jhon  ap  Rys  ym  henbedw 

342  p.  Rob:  ap  Rys  ap  Rob:  =  gwen  /  Rydd)  /  Gwenhwyfar  &c. 

343  y  byrchyria :  p.  ac  wyrion  D.  vychan  ap  D.  ap  f.  &c. 

344  J,  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  ho:  koetmor  &c. 

Penn  maehno  :  Madoc  Koch  ap  jf.  ap  Uowarch  ap  iddou  &c. 
traws  vymjdd :  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  J),  ap  Hn  ap  mad:  koch  &c. 

345  Maelor :  plant  ftu  sais  =  Owen,  anion  &c. 

347  „       hanmer :  to:  ap  Ow:  ap  ^fer:  &c. 
Kilken  :  Hari  ap  J.  ap  E.  ap  ]f.  ap  'Jthel  &c. 
Landyrnoc:  simwut  ap  "J'bel  ap  D.  ap  jfthel  mod  &c. 

348  Helygen :  Ho:  ap  tudr  ap  Rys  ap  tudr  ap  D.  y  gwr  tec 

350  Ystryd  alvn  :  p.  E.  ap  f .  ap  f.  ap  H:n=R.  /J./D.  /  To:  a  Ric: 

351  D.  llwyd  ap  bleddyn  ap  Gr:  ap  heilin  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

352  {Mochnant :  p.  Tho:  ap  Reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c.') 

353  Hendre  vigill,  helygen:  p.  Eic:  wyn  ap  J.  Wyn  =  Elis  /J.  &c. 

354  ,,         „     Elis  penant  ap  D.  Penant  &c. 
,,         „     Hvw  ap  J.  ap  kyu:  &c. 

355,  358  Brvwtwn :  p.  syr  Eondl  brvwtwn  o  v}  Malpas  &c. 
357  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  J.  gethin 
361  p.  Jthel  tip  D.  ap  Jthel  vychan  =  J.  /  Eob:  /  D.  &c. 
367  p.  D.  bithel  o  votfarv  &c. 

369  IL.  ffynhowniven  :  Ric:  Uvcyd  ap  Oliver  ap  D.  llwyd  vychan  &c. 

370  Tudr  goch  ap  tudr  llwyd  ap  D.  -wyn 

374  Garth  garmon ;  Owain  ap  Jhon  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  engion  &c, 
p.  Raff' wyn  ap  D.  anwj'l  o  elin  V5  J.  ap  ftn  &c.     ^3.56  . 
Ihvyth  jarddvr  :  Rob:  ap  Hn  ap  Tudr  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  &c.t 

375  kaer  pill — haer  rrni :  To:  ap  ho:  ap  Rys  ap  Mad;  ap  lin  &c.t 

377  Y  llyfr  hwa  asgvivenws  D.  esgrivenydd  i  ^er:  ap  U'n  ap  Tudr  a  hynn  o 

arch  y  U'u  hwnnw  vab  tudr  ap  gwyn  vab  bradwen  &c Il'n  ap  tudr  a  beris 

esgriveimv   hynn  yn  y  ll^fr  hwn  nid  amgen  .  .  .  Mael  pendefic   penardd  yu 
aifoD  ocdd  vab  i  venwyd  fab  rririd  vab  rrvol  &c. 

Tref  y  karnedd :  Hn  ap  D.  ap  Jer:  ap  Mad:  ddv  &C. 

378  Plant  Rob:  ap  Jer:  ap  Ririd  =  Jthel  /  kyn:  /  Hn  &c.§ 

379  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  o  1.  gerniw  ap  Gr:  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  Sic. 
Ystryd  Alyn :  Gr:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  Kadwgon  ap  Jer:  &c. 

380  „  yr  hob  tre :  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  J.  goch  &c. 
p.  Gr;  goch  apMred;  ap  J.  ap  O.  glyn  dwfr 

381  Seisyllt  ap  Eltfin  ap  Elffin  ap  gwyddno  &c.  .  .  J.  Vychan 

o  briodes  V3  J.  wrsle  &c.^  .  I564  . 

382  jC.  vendigaid  yn  U.  gelynin  :  p.  Ednyfed  ap  Hn  ap  Tudr  &c. 

„     p.  aron  o  levkv  V3  Gr:  dew  =  Edn:  /  Gr:  /  R.  v'n  &c. 
387       „     a  2L.  bisfer  :  Hvw  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  mred;  &c. 


*  llyfr  0  vadryii 

t  liyfr  tomas  llwyd  0  lys  dvUu  yn  y  plus  ijmodeon  , .'     .     .  1 

i  y  ttdolen  Hon  hyd  liyn  a  dynwyd  o  hen  yopi  a  t)ad  gan  robin  jachuir  0  law 
Mr  'Julian  decii  bangor  gUl  a  tomas  ap  ho:  ap  Bys  iichod  p.  376. 
^  Itopi  0  lyfr  leivys  ap  Edw: 
il  ?  llyfr  0  laic  y  person  Owen 


GRIFFITH  HIRAETHOG  ETC.  853 

389  kyveilioc — iL.  wrin  :  p.  hvw  ap  J.  ap  U.  llwyd  =  J,  /  Mred:  &c. 

395   (llioydiaith  ymhowys) :  p.  ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c. 

39G  Machijnlleth  :  D.  llwyd  ap  tta  ap  Morys  ap  Ho:  &c. 

397    Trofarth :  D.  ap  R.  ap  Jankyn  aj)  Hn  &c. 

399   Tre  Tal  hayarn :  J.  wyn  ap  f .  ap  Eys  ap  grono  &c. 

401  p.  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  eiiiion  o  vallt  V3  vndoe  vycban  &c. 
J).  Eob:  ap  Mred:  ap  sion  hevloc  o  varsli  ystanle 
Dyffryn  melei :  p.   Wm:  ap  Mred:  o  alis  =  J.  wyn  /  Eio: 

403  plas  ***  nol:  Eic:  ap  Mred:  a  briodes  ann  &e. 
Owain  ap  Wm:  ap  J.  ap  Robin  ap  gr:  &c. 

404  Tre  brys  llygod  yn  II.  veir :  J.  lewys  ap  ttn  ap  J.  &e. 
Gwytherin :  Wm:  ap  Rob:  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  ap  Enion  &c. 

405  I'rys  llygod :  J.  pantwn  ap  fln  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 
garthewin  yn  11.  rair  :  Hvw  ap  1).  ap  Mred:  ap  1).  llwyd  &c. 

406  Pont  y  gwyddyl :  Rob:  ap  Ha  ap  Tudr  ap  gr:  &c.         .  ^557  . 
Tre  r  vediven  ynghaerwys :   p.  E.  ap  f.  ap  E.  =  syr  Rol:  / 

syr  T.  gocli  person  11.  san  fl'raid /hvw/ lewys  goch  /  J.  &c. 

407  -K.  gerniw :  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  f.  ap  D.  Ihvyd  &c. 

Rai  a  ddywaid  .  .      mai  Jddou  a  morgan  i  frawd  pioadd  L.  y  myueeh.* 

408  IL.  gerniw  :  Hari  ap  kyn:  ap  'j.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c.         .   ^557  . 

„         p.  Gr:  ap  ]f.  ap  Eys  =  Eob:  /  Gr:  /  kat.rin  &c. 

409  -2/.  dderfet — tre  ddol  drewyn  :  p.  J.  wyn  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  = 

Edw:  /  Eoger  /  Eeinallt  &c. 

410  Dot  Drewyn  :  J.  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  Tudr  &c. 
JL.  dderfel :  J.  ap  Elisse  ap  ]f.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

411  Tre       „         f .  llwyd  ap  Jhon  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

Nan  ffrever :  tomas  llwyd  np  Rob:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

412  Tomas  ap  Rob:  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Rys 

413  ]L.  gywair :  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  D. 

414  Maelor — Hafod  y  ivern  :  J.pilstwntir  mon  ap  J.  P.  hen  (fecf 

syr  Jhon  Pilstwn  kwnstabl  kaernarfon  &c. 

415  Edeirnion,  llan  gai,  plus  0.  kymer :  hvw  ap  W.  ap  gr:  vachan 
lliDyn  y  bi  o  vewn  tre  gymer  :  Gr:   ap  Eob:  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  o 

vaessmor  &c.     1556. 
gwnnadl :  Watkyn  ap  Jhon  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c. 

416  tre  wnadl :  Jhon  ap  O.  ap  ■}.  ap  D.  &c. 

tref  hynwyd  vaur — gwyddelioern  :  Itn  ap  J.  ap  ^.  ap  gr:  &c. 
mvch  gwrvai :  Wm:  ap  hari  ap  D.  ap  jfankyn  &c. 

417  A  table  of  the  descendants  ofY  moelfrych 

418  korioen — dol  y  gelessyn  :  Eob:  a  Eys  meib  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  &c. 
glan  alwen  :  Ric:  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Robin  &c. 
Nefyn  yn  lleyn  :  Mad:  ap  kadwgon  ap  Mred: 

419  Richart  laxtwn  vab  gwen  v5  *  *  *  ap  Edw:  ap  Rys  &c4 

420  S.  y  wavn:  Ho:  /  H.  /  a,  Mred  =  p.  Gr:  ap  Edn:  ap  ^er:  goch  &c.| 

421  IL.  vor — tref  benmaeii :  J.  ap  D.  ap  enion  ap  Tudr  &c. 
kil  talgarth :  J.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  kadvvgan  &c. 

„  „  D.  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  grono  ap  Tudr  &c. 

422  tir  yr  abad :  D.  hen  ap  R.  llwyd  &c. 

423  Ej.for — penmaen  barwn :  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  gvfcyn  koch  &c. 
y  gydros :  J.  ap  Eys  llwyd 

424  rriwedoc :  D.  ap  to:  ap  J.  ap  ftn  ap  ynyr  &c. 
Penllyn:  Rys  ap  itn  ap  gr:  ap  f.  ap  gr:  krafnanc  &c.§ 

425  IL,.  elivy  :  p.  To:  ap  Rys  ap  bened  &c. 

Ystymanair,  Towyn,  ynys  y  mangwyn  :  J.  ap  Wmffre  ap  ho: 

426  Bod  Bychwin:  D.  ap  f.  ap  mad:  ap  kwnws  hen  &c. 

*  llyfr  Edw:  ap  Rosser         t  Ik'fi'  '  '""'  tomas  llwyd  o  hjs  dvlat  y  modeon 
t  g  Uyfr  Gr:  leia  §  q'Uyfi  trefveilir 


864  PENIA.RTH  MANUSCRIPTS   135-136. 

427  {kwchillan) :  p.  Wm:  ap  Wm:  ap  Wm:  ap  gr;  &c. 

428  syr  Jhon  person  llysvaen  ap  sjr  gr:  person  llysvaen  &c. 
Trofarth :  p.  jf.  ap  ho:  ap  bleddyn  ap  heiliu  &o. 

429  riw  hjfnei/d :  p.  Rob:  ap  jf.  ap  kyn: 

A.  gele — ty  ny  gmrych:  p.  J.  ap  Wm:  ap  grono  &c. 

430  A  table  of  the  descendants  o/Hn  ap  Tudi- 

p.  D.  \\\yyA  ap  Rys  o  sioned  v}  jftbel  .  .  or  kwm  yn  liegaingl 

431  p.E.  llwyd  ap  itn  ap  tudr  ap  D.  &c.         .  1356  . 

433  p.  ao  wyron  f.  ap  tudr  ap  J.  V'n  ap  Hn  &c. 

DoliDcn  IL.  elian  ne  Ivndain  y  geifr  :  ftn  ap  J.  ap  'j.  goch 

434  p.  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Robin  ap  Rys  ap  rrotperfc  &c. 

436  Tywynan — IL.  elian  :  jhon  ajj  gr:  vycban  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c, 

437  ILaethfaen  „  Huw  ap  J.  ap  Rys 

Tywynan  „  p.  Jhon  ap  J.  ddv  ap  ifeu:  ap  Ho;  &c. 

438  Syr  Rys  wyn  person  llan  Elian 

Ariuyxtli .  #  #  *     ap  morys  ap  Jankyn  y  glyn  &e.* 

439  JL.   drillo  yn  rros  :  Mad:  vychan  ap  lio:  ap  Mad:  ap  ho:  &c. 
Huw  ap  D.  Amvyl  ap  J.  ap  Rys  &c. 


MS.  136.  =  Hen.  428.  Genealogy  &  Heraldy.  Paper;  about 
8Jxf>  inches;  536  pages;  .second  half  of  the  xvith  century;  half- 
calf. 

This  composite  volume  is  chiefly  marie  up  of  the  writings  of  Griffith  Hiraethog 
(1564),  and  his  disciple  Wiliam  Lleyn  whose  penmanship  in  some  places  (in  this 
MS.)  resembles  rather  closely  that  of  his  master.  The  two,  however,  always  differ  in 
the  formation  of  their  a's  and  g's — G.  H.  writes  Jhon,  while  W.  Ll.Jwrites  John  or 
Simi  and,  as  a  rule,  dots  his  ri.  The  master  writes  a  small  fine  hand  ;  the  disciple 
generally  indulges  in  heavy  strokes,  but  not  often  in  large  letters.  Pages  1-7, 
9-16,  18-22,  71-87,  1.53-260,  299-301,  391,  531-3  are  in  the  autograph  of 
G.  Hiraethog;  p.ages  8-9,  23-4,  26-48,  56-8,  61-70,  91-152,  263-291,  306-32, 
381-90,  411,  422,  427-82  are  by  W.  Lleyn,  while  pages  399-401,  403-4,  407-8, 
49-55,  363-80  are  in  a  similar  style  if  not  partly  in  the  same  hand.  Other  pages 
iu  distinct  hands  are,  (n)  483-501,  and  ?  423-6,  (6)  507-30,  (c)  59-60,  (d)  397-8, 
402,  405-6,  &o. 
i-xii.     Index  by  Robert  Vaughan  of  Hcngwrt. 

1  IL.  verys,  F^ys  yldl — io6i  .  p.  ac  wyrion  Gr:  ap  gr:  =  D. 
llwyd  /  Rydd3  /  Gr:  vychan  /  Jhon  wyn  /  katrin  /  Elen  &c. 

3  Bryn  hwva  :  Jhon  ap  tin  ap  1).  ap  ftn  ap  kyn:  &c. 

4  ILys  yliil .  plymoc  amivod :  Jhon  llwyd  ap  tudr  ap  gr:  &c. 

5  y  chiimen  :  p.  Gr:  ap  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

6  kopi  or  ystent  ....   dan   sel   y  sehr    ymodeon — k.   lliwon  : 
(1)  Gwely  matusalem  (2)  Gwely  kyfnerth  (3)  Gwely  ).  ap  hwva  &c. 

llecliylched :  ftn  ap  D.  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

7  k.  lliivon,  Prys  aeddved  :  p.  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  o  vali  V5  %  ll'd 

8  Edyrnion  :  D.  ap  Tiidiir  ap  0.  vachan  &c. 

Mon  :  A  description  of  the  arms  of  (9)  Mwssoglen,  Bodowyv 
(10)  Myf[yr]iau,  ILwydiartli  (&   12),   (II)   Y  chwaen  vchaf  (kwm: 
lliwon),  Prys    aeddved,   (13)  Gronant,    (14)    kaer   gybi,   bodedyrn, 
bodychen  (15)  Bodeon,  ]L.  gydwaladr,  (16)  Trefeilir,  Ei.  V'el  ysgeifioc 
17   Table  of  the  descendants  ofjankyn  hir  ap  )olyn 
ly  „  „  „  Rissiart  bwkle       ,  75(5^.  . 

kimnwd  lliwon  : 

19  bodwroc  nev  gaergyU  vechan  /  y  plas  bodychen:  p.  R.  wyn 
ap  Jhon  ap  Rys  ap  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

20  Bodedyrn,  prysaeddvod  :  p.  W.  lewys  o  vared  V5  s'  J.  Pilston 


*  Uyfr  ache  mawr  lewys  ap  Edw. 


G.   HIRAETHOG,  W.   LLYN  ETC.  855 

21   Tre  jfer:—^.  Ho:  =  lewys  /  R.  /  gr:  /  a  fer:  <&c. 

llynon :  gwraio  li.  =  mcrcli  Mred:  ap  R.  ap  J,  llwyd  &c. 

21  llech  rjlchcd :  p.  ^er:  o  vallt  v}  Mred:  ap  Jer:  &c. 

22  „  .  156/f  .  p.  lewys  =  hvw  aned  ]ol2  &c. 

23  Yinwythic :  Ric:  ap  O.  ap  ^.  ap  O.  ap  ■][.  &c. 

24  yrarwhon  yn  llwdlo :  Hu\v  evrych  ael wir  huw  koedmor  &c. 

25  ll  mam  ^.  llwyd  vychau  =  mawd  V3  D.  llwyd  &c. 

26  /<ae  Ao; — D.  llwyd  ap  siankin  ac  arfav  Mad:  U'd 

gwell  hinon  na  lion  a  henwer  yn  des  &c.  liys  Kain 

27  Arfav  (1)  lownlo  [_sic]  (2)  argl:  IFeris 

29  Penn  mynydd :  Ric:  owain  ap  Ric:  O.  &c.    .  ^567  . 

33  tref  alvn  :  S.  trefor  ap  S.  trefor  &c. 

36  Tre  ivylan  :   D.  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Mad:  &c. 

40   y  Wavn  .-  J.  Edw:  ap  J.  Edw:  ap  W.  ap  J.  Edw:  hen  &e. 

47  p.  WinfFre  Dotnoc  ap  Rondl  ap  to:  domoc  &c. 

49  Maelaior  G. — Ho:  ap  grono  ap  "j.  ap  grouo  &c. 

51   {Drefnewydd)  :  Tho:  ap  R.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  En:  &e. 

53  llwyth  Penllyn :  Ririd  flaidd  ap  gwrgenav  ap  gollwyii  &c. 

54  Maelawr  :  Rob:  ap  Edw:  ap  Ho:  ap  ftn  ap  ^er:  &c. 

55  Gr:  ap  f  olyn  Hoed  ap  D.  ap  'j.  lloed  &c. 

56  &  64  Teir  gwraic  a  phlant  Mred:  ap  if.  ap  Robert  &c. 
58  Maen  twroc :  R.  wynn  ap  ]f .  ap  gr:  ap  Jankin  &c. 

69   Tref  gynon  :  To:  ap  J,  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  J.  blaene  &c. 

62  J.  Wyn  alrre  ap  D.  ap  sion  ap  L).  ap  Edw: 

63  Y  llechioedd  isaf:  bleddyn  ap  addaf  llwyd  ap  adda  &c. 

65  IL.  Sawyl :  J.  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  morgan  &c. 

66  y  dref  newydd  :  My  gr;  ap  M''  R.  ap  syr  gr:  ap  syr  R.  &c. 

67  tr%)m  soran  :  1'.  vychan  ap  ho:  v'n  ap  siankin  &c. 

kelli  gadrod,  IL.  gyndeyrn  :  Hiiw  llwyd  ap  to:  ap  Ric:  &c. 

68  Y  fflynii,  glan  gwen  draeth  :  J),  llwyd  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 
Brynn  y  groes :  O.  ap  siankin  ap  D.  ap  W.  &c. 

69  Simwnt  thelwal  ap  Ric:  tli.  ap  Edw:  th.  ap  Eibull  tli.  &c. 
Almor  maelor:  Edw:  almor  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  ■}.  ap  D.  &e. 

70  Y  rrvddallt,  Riwabon  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

71,  37  Eghcysec*  :  W  Jhon  Prys  ap  Edw:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  Gtm  &c. 

73  chwitffor  tref ffychtan  :  To:  pennant/  Ric:  P.  /  Pryrs  P.  &c. 

74  f  Table  of  the  descendants  0/  f .  ap  ^thel  ap  ^th:  ap  ^er:  v'n 
77  Segrwyd :  R.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  ^olyn  ap  kyn  he. 

83  Table  of  the  descendants  of  W.  the  first  Erl  of  Waren 
85  ,,  „  Roger  MontgomeryJ 

91  Towyn  :  John  ap  Rys  ap  Rydd3  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  O.  &c. 
Pevtref  feuan  ynghemais  :   Mastr  O.  ap  syr  siams  ap  O.  &c. 

92  &  97  Pikdwn :  M'  W.  ph:  ap  J.  ph.  ap  syr  To:  ph.  &c. 
Jhon  ap  Jams  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  D.  &c. 

93  y  kilgivyn  :  John  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  R.  &c. 
IL.  gathen  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  gtm  ap  to:  vychan  &c. 

94  JL.  deilo :  W.  ap'Ph.  ap  W.  ap  John  dv  &c. 

„         J.  llwyd  ap  Rydd3  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 
„         D.  llwyd  ap  gtm  to:  ap  Rys  &c. 

95  JL.  arthne:  Jankin  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  gtm  v'n  &c.     .  156'^  . 
IL.  ddaroc :   D.  ap  henri  ap  siankin  ap  benri  &c. 

96  JL.  Uowddoc  :  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  Hn  &c. 

97  hefii  kaer  ystymanner :  J.  ap  Ric:  ap  huw  ap  ho:  &c. 


*  lliffr  Edw:  ap  Roger  at  foot  of  p.  37  in  W.  Llyn's  liaud. 

t  "  kais  yr  ach  hon  yn  Han  «lwy  gan  vab  person  bettws  ysgwlmastr  ar  gayad  y 
Uyfr  or  tv  mown  &c,c."  —  Gr:  Hiraethog. 
\  kopi  air  yngair  0  Uyfr  llwyd  0  *  »   »  * 


856  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   136. 

98  keiswyn  ?~J.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ttn  &c. 
Maes  y  pandy  :  R.  ap  huw  ap  E.  &c. 

99  V  trail  long  :  D.  Ihvyd  ap  Eob:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  v'n  &c. 

100  Abcr  marlais  :  syr  hari  sions  ap  syr  to:  sions  &c. 

101  Bodli/sffwn  :  Hari  ap  "W.  ap  morgan  ap  hari  &e. 
IL.  gyndeyrn  .-  To:  morgan  ap  hari  morgan  &.:: 
ILcchdwni:  Morys  ap  R.  ap  morys  ap  O.  ap  gi-  ap  nikolaa 

102  Jii/dsdyn:  D.  ap  ho:  ap  morgan  &c. 

103  ILwi/n  ho' I:  Rydderch  ap  R.  vyclian  ap  glm  ap  R.  &c. 

104  ]L.  gadoc—penbryn  aber  y  nant :  Lewys  ap  D.  ap  Mred;  &c. 

105  Y gilfach  wenn  :  Jaukin  ap  D.  ap  U.  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
Jtastell  hoH :  To:  ap  D.  ap  Ha  llwyd  ap  D.  &c. 

Tal  y  sarn  :  Huw  ap  ftn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

108  Pant  ystreimon  .-  Rydderch  ap  D.  ap  Rydd}  ap  To:  &c. 
107  -K.  ddwys  :  R.  ap  D.  ap  siankin  ap  J.  ap  R.  goch  &c. 

Penpryn :  Lewys  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  Ihvyd  &c. 
koedmor,  kastell  gefail :  S.  mortimer  ap  siams  mortimer  &c. 
lOS  harroc  :  Jankin  llwyd  ap  Morgan  ap  li,  ap  ph.  &c. 
Aber  maed :  J.  llwyd  ap  lewys  ap  ftn  vychan  &c. 

109  y  krevddyn  :  D.  llwyd  ap  morys  ap  siankin  &c. 
Glan  heri :  sion  vychan  ap  Rydd}  ap  Rys  &c. 

1 10  Gogerddan  .  J.  ap  Ric:  ap  R.  ap  D.  Il'd  ap  D.  ap  Rydd3  &e. 

112  ILwyn  Jer: — Watgyn  ap  to:  ap  R.  ap  lewys  &c. 

113  Penniarlh  :   D.  llwyd  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  R.  apgr:  &c. 

1 15  Vnys  ymaengwyn  :  J.  wynn  ap  wmffreap  ho:  ap  jfankin  &c, 

116  Brynn  y  nevadd  yn  lleyn :  To:  ap  R.  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

1 17  Mylllcyra  :  Edw:  ap  Rolant  ap  K.  &c. 

y  tallwyn,  TL.  gyhi,  yfionydd :  Ric:  ap  O.  ap  R.  vychan  &c. 

118  henaddvn — y  plas  dv  .  To:  ap  O.  ap  gr:  &c. 
henaddyy  llwyn  dyrys  :  Ric:  vychan  ap  E.  v'n  &c. 

119  IL,  vendigaid :  Huw  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
Machalaeth  :  mam  gr:  ap  J.  =  gwenhwyfar  V5  ho:  &c. 

120  E.  ap  D.  aj)  Mad:  vychan  &c. 

121  Hen  addvyn,  Dol  y  penryn  :  ]f.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  ho:  &c. 

123  Y  llannerch  vawr  :  D.  llwyd  ap  huw  ap  J.  Madryn  &c. 

124  heidio :  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  vychan  ap  ho:  &o. 

125  Penllechoc,  IL.  ael  hay  am:  J.  ap  huw  ap  mad:  &c. 
IL.  fihangel  ymachelaeth  :  D.  llwyd  ap  W.  llwyd  &c. 

126  Y  berltin  :  Ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  mad:  ap  Rys  &c. 

127  J.  wynn  ap  C).  ap  S.  ap  O.  ap  S.  ap  iMrod:  &c. 

128  Hrynkyr  :  Elissav  ap  Rob:  wynn  ap  J.  ap  S.  &c. 

128  &  133  JL.  einion — y  plas  newydd :  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

Y  gwynfryn  :  Ric:  sion  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  S.  &c. 

129  ke/ynennov  :  W.  llwyd  ap  morys  ap  Elissav  &c. 

Y  beHos :  Rob:  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  Rob:  vychan  &c. 

130  IFyslvnioc :  J.  ap  lewys  ap  "j.  ap  D.  ap  ]f.  ap  Eingion  &c. 
Bryn  odol  yn  llyn :  S.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  iolyn  &c. 

131  IL.  aber — plas  ynegryn  :  W.  tudiir  ap  gr:  ap  Ednyfed  &c. 
Yfionydd — y  plas  dv  :  To:  O.  ap  gr:  ap  morys  ap  gr:  &c. 

132  Uwydiarth  ;  O,  ap  J.  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
npffryn  :  Mred:  ap  to:  ap  Eob:  vychan  &c. 
y  berhyn  :  Ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

133  i-ritv  r  suethon  :  Morys  ap  Ow:  ap  Hn  ap  0.  &c. 
Bodnithoedd :  Ric:  ap  huw  ap  siams  ap  mad:  &c. 

134  Aber  dnron  ;  gr:  ap  f .  ap  John  ap  J.  &c. 

plas  yn  ygarth  :  wmifre  ap  J.  wyn  ap  gr:  ap  Reliiallt  &c. 
hegidfa  :  Erawnt  llwyd  ap  to:  llwyd  &c. 
trallwng :  Rob:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd 


a.  HiRAETflOG  AND  W.   LLYW,  857 

135  Kyfoethle :  S.  vychan  ap  Jaiikin  ap  John  ap  J.  &c. 
y  bala  .  kydwaZadr  ap  Kydd}  ap  D.  ap  mred:  &c. 

136  Y  Ilai :  Olfir  llwyd  ap  Wmffie  llwyd  &c. 

yr  hafodwen  :  Ric:  llwyd  ap  olfir  llwyd  ap  1).  Ihvyd  &o. 

137  {Penile},)  :  p.  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  goch  ap  D.  goch  &c. 

139  p.  W.  ap  ho:  ap  mad:  o  fawd  herbei't  o  golbrwc  &e, 

140  Pistill :  p.  hari  ap  huw  ap  J.  o  fawd  herbert  &c. 

141  Pennardd :  John  wynn  ap  W.  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

Plas  newydd  JL.  Dwroc :  W.  ap  Ric:  ap  Rob;  ap  mred;  Ac. 
143  Jbach  y  saint :  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  S.  &c. 

143  p.  morgan  ap  gr;  ap  ein:  o  gesail  devnanl 

glan  dysyni  K,.  egryn  :  Lewys  gethin  ap  tudiir  vyclian  &e. 

144  fflan  alwen  :  gr:  vychan  ap  Ric:  llwyd  ap  D.  &e. 
Towyn  :  J.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  Via  &c. 

145  Gwedir  :  Morys  wynn  ap  J.  ap  mred:  ap  J.  &c. 

147  Ystvnllyn :  kydwaladr  ap  to:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 

y  llwyn  dedwydd :  To:  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  R.  &c. 

148  ystvm  givern :  Ho:  ap  0.  ap  ho:  ap  J.  Blaene 
Meilieiiydd :  p.  O.  ap  gr:  mred:  vychan  &c. 

149  Dol  y  glessyn:  Rob:  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  ^.  &c. 

150  hefn  y  garllech :  Rob:  ap  hvw  ap  Ro:  ap  John  &c. 
hymel :  Huw  ap  W.  ap  gr:  vychan  &c. 

151  Ragad :  Roetsier  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 
Branes :  Morgan  ap  Rob:  ap  Reinallt  &c. 

152  Bwras  :  0.  brvtwn  ap  John  b.  ap  Edw:  b.  &c. 

A  Description  of  the  arms  o/y  plas  ymodlwfyr,  y  dafarn  ynghaeryw 
(153)  ;  bedd  yn  enbi .  1482  . — John  whyt  &c.  (154)  ;  ffenestri  kaeryw 
(155)  ag  yn  y  klahdy  ;  ffenestri  yslebets  (156);  Eglwys  y  trallwnk 
— y  gafell,  fEenstri,  penwn  wmffre  llwyd  &c.  (157-61);  trallwn — ty 
Roger  Jhons  (162);  ffernandw,  To:  duck  o  northffolk  (163)  ;  H. 
ffisalen  iarll  arundel  &c.,  Edw:  jarll  derby  ior  ystraenyd  a  mannaw, 
jelian  iarll  betffort  (164);  Edw:  barwn  de  clynton,  To;  denis  ior 
pvmp  ports  (165) ;  To:  west,  Jhon  gaege,  anteny  saynt  lager  (166) ; 
plas  esgob  bangor  (167-8)  penrryn  (167  and  171)  ;  bedd  y  deon  kyiEu 
13  Awst  1550  (168);  bvw  mares  (169-70)  ;  Eglwys  Bangor  (173-4 
and  189)  ;  wenna  yn  ymyl  brvwtyn — Martyn  payntyn  ap  Edw:  p. 
?  ap  Roger  P.  a  laddodd  was  arg:  ymwythic  ac  i  gorfv  iddo  if o  oddyno 
ac  am  hyny  y  galwodd  vo  i  henw  yn  holt  (175)  ;  geveni — dos  i  dy  Jhon 
ap  Mred:  ...  a  thy  Jhon  ap  W.  Lewys  .  .  .  To:  gwnter  oddyno  am 
grjrodd  ynghaer  Ivdd  yr  oedd  vo  /  To:  gaensffort  son  to  syr  Hari  g. 
(177)  ;  p.  Rob:  llwyd  ap  ^.  llwyd  /  Nankonwy  o  kwm  lanerch — Lewys 
ap  J.  ap  gr:  (179)  ;  bosloc  (187)  . 

192  lloklys:  p.  Rondl  bruton  =  Rondl  /  Jan  /  mari  &c. 
Emral:  p.  Roger  P«7ston  =  Roger,   1541  /  Edward,  1543  / 

To'  1545/Richart  1548/  J.  1549  /  Gorge  1550/  Antoni  1550  .  &e. 

193  A  description  of  the  arms  of  Aber  tanad  iiidas  makabewys, 
Edw:  .  .  wilkoc,  Evtyn  &  Jhon  of  Hoghton  lord  of  wotley 

201  Caernarfon :  p.  W.  bwld  o  gras  V5  Jemwnt  gr:  ~  W.  &c. 
Jhon  yspysser  ap  To:  yspyser  &c. 

kopi  0  hen  lyfr  ache  o  waith  Eobin  achwr  ymhlas  W.  wd 

202  Plas  dv  yfioyndd:^.  To:  ap  O.  =0.  aned  1560  /  W,1561  &c. 
The  arms  of  koUwyn  &  Madryn 

204  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  y  penllwyd  of  trejlys  i.e.  llys 
gwyn  ap  Ednowain  yn  yfionydd 

205  Sir  gaer  vvish  gwr  vai  K..wnda  I  penywern:  W.  ap  hari 

209  IL.  vihangel  llechantwn  i.e.  Awrbenj — arms  in  windows  &c, 

210  Capelbrow  plas  in  Icchton — arms  in  windows  &c. 

y  98430.  N  N 


858  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   136, 

215  Elsmer :  the  arms  of  George  Kinast  &c. 

A  description  of  arms  in  the  windows  4^c.  o/rrvthvii  (221)  ;  Eglwys 
gorwen  (225)  ;  Elsmer  (228)  ;  y  malpas  (229)  ;  Hanmer  (229  &  231) ; 
Emral  agrafener  o  EiJtyn  (231-2);  Capel  syr  linw  Chomley  (233-4)  ; 
mahras — brvwton  ymhobfEeustr  (235);  korbet  of  hawgh ton,*  with  table 
of  descent  (239)  ;  llan  ysgalloc  alies  desbri  (240)  ;  M'  niclas  purlso, 
obit.  8  Awgwst  1563  (241)  ;  Corbet  of  Norton  (242) ;  p.  Tochet  bestou 
(246) ;  syr  Richart  Ayston  (247)  ;  yr  holt  (248)  ;  the  Hall  of  M>-  Gorge 
Carewe  (251)  ;  Eglwys  gwrexam  (255)  ;  Eglwys  Gressffordd  (257)  ; 
Elsmer  (259-60)  ;  twyfort— kroes  ar  vedd  Jhon  tweifort  1440  (259)  ; 
Jhon  kynest  (260). 

263  fal :  J.  Uwyd  ap  J.  Ilwyd  ap  tudiir  llwyd  &c. 

264  Tegaingl :  Hari  ap  tomas  ap  hari  ap  kyn:  &c. 

265  Dol  gymoal :  Mastr  dokdor  Elis  ap  Rob:  ap  R.  &c. 
267   Frvc:  S.  salbri  ap  Rob:  salbri  ap  Pirs  S.  &c. 

271  y  ddiserth :  Lewys  llwyd  ap  Mred:  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  O.  &c. 

272  Woxol:  IFowk  llwyd  ap  pirs  llwyd  ap  hiiw  llwyd  &c. 

273  Ysgeifioc  nannerch  :  W.  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  J.  &c. 
Aher  tanad:  To:  tanad  ap  ]f.  llwyd  vychan  &c. 

275  Plus  einion — D.  hlioyd :  J.  ap  Roger  ap  ila  ap  J.  &c. 
Bod  anwydoc  yn  ial :  J.  wynn  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Elissav  &c, 

276  y  Gwynfryn — Eiddionydd :  J.  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  J.  &c. 

277  V  llwyn  dyrys  ;  Ric:  vj'chan  ap  R.  vychan  &c. 
Hj.  fair  D.  klwyd :  To:  miltwn  ap  To:  miltwn  &c. 
Tegaingl :  J.  ap  Rob:  wynn  ap  J.  ap  kyn  &c. 

278  Abergelav :  Pirs  ap  J.  O.  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

279  ILwydiarth  ymon :  R.  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gim  &c. 

280  Tre}eilir:  O.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  Hn  &c. 
Tref  gayan  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  Rydd:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 

281  Gloddaitli :  To:  mostyn  ap  Rio:  ap  ho:  ap  J.  &e. 

282  Maenan  :  Morys  kyffin  ap  syr  D.  O.  ap  gr:  &c. 

283  Eglwyssec:  D.  llwyd  ap  ho:  ap  ]f.  ap  R.  &c. 

284  Mgrs  ymaelawr  :  Mastr  Rob:  pistwn  ap  sjrr  J.  p.  &c. 

285  y  plat  newydd] :  Morrys  ap  Rob:  ap  Rol:  ap  Rob:  &c. 

286  Bodeon  :  O.  ap  liiiw  ap  O.  ap  mevric  ap  Ha  &c. 

287  Bodychen  :  R.  wynn  ap  S.  ap  R.  ap  Rn  &c. 

288  Prys  addfed :  W.  lewys  ap  huw  lewys  ap  J.  lewys  &c. 

289  hrogen  :  Morgan  ap  To:  ap  ho:  ap  Rob:  &c. 

290  Heithle  yn  sir  ynnvythic :  M''  siors  ap  W.  ap  Ric:  &c. 
Penllyn :  syr  S.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  gr:  &c. 

291  Pias  issaf:  Rob:  vychan 

294  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Cadogan  o  Nanne 

kopi  0  lyjr  o  law  Mr  Powel 
A  description  oj  the  arms  of-  Elystan  glodrydd,  R.  goch,  rririd 
flaidd,  ]farddvr,  Eingon  ap  gerain,  Gr:  ap  ho'l,  tegwared  (299),  Mred: 
»p  kynan,  llan  egwestl,  llan  ejwy,  syr  hvw  konwy,  Ho'l  koedmor, 
niaxen  wledic,  Einion  ap  kriadoc  (300),  Jankyn  vychan,  ty  gwdmon 
yn  y  dvw  mares  (301). 

306  Olfir  lloyd  ap  wnffre  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

307  Ymwlas :  John  Wynn  ap  kad:  ap  Rob:  ap  R.  &c. 
kegidfa  ymacs  maivr  :  Emwnt  llwyd  ap  To:  llwyd  &c. 

308  I>ol  obran  :  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  O.  ap  J.  tec  &c. 

309  Bodfach  ;  gr:  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  Jankin  vychan  &c. 


•  "yn  y  llyfr  ynhaures." 

•(■  '•  y  uion  (yn  seryll  ar  y  borth  gyrnchwyrn)  " 


G.   HIRAETHOa  AND  W.   LLYN,  859 

310  Main  gwynedd  ar  plas  y  Ml:  W.  ap  To:  ap  Reinallt  Ac. 
kroes  Ossivallt :  syr  S.  ap  J.  ap  To:  ap  R.  ap  Morvs  &c. 

311  Esgob  Dewi — Ric:  ap  D.  ap  grono  ap  deio  &c. 
Tref  valdwyn  :  M""  Edw:  herbart  ap  syr  Ric:  Ii.  &c. 

313  Tref  Dal  hayain  :  John  Wynn  ap  ^.  ap  R.  &c. 

314  Trefaeth  :  D.  ap  R.  ap  Jankin  ap  ftn  ap  To:  &e. 
Mychynllaith  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Hn  ap  morys  ap  ho'l  &c. 

315  Mathafarn :  John  ap  hiiwap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

319  yrffafodwen — JL.Jfynhow/iwen :  Ric.  llwyd  ap  Olfir  ap  D,  &c. 

321  IE,,  idloes :  J.  gwynn  ap  0.  gwynn  ap  ftn  llwyd  &c. 

322  Ystrad  alvn :  J.  wynn  or  twr  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

323  Elsmer—^atle :  ffrawnsel  y  kinaston  vab  gorge  kynaston  &e. 

324  ielli  gynan  :  Edw:  llwyd  ap  lewys  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
Maer  dy  gwydd  elwern :  p,  Ric:  ap  elissav  ap  gr:  &c. 

325  Si/chdyn  :  Hari  konwy  ap  Jamys  konwy  ap  J.  aer  k.  &c. 

330  Henllan  :  Ric:  ap  hari  ap  Rob:  &c. 

331  Y  ddwy  gyfylchi :  To:  wynn  ap  Edm:  ap  Rys  &c. 

332  Y  ddiserth  :  pirs  ap  "W.  ap  ithel  vacban  &c, 

333  kadwgon  o  garoc  ap  kadwgon  vychan  &o. 

334  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Henry  Norbiiry 

335  J.  ap  ftn  ap  D.  ap  grono  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
D.  bol  ap  Gwallder  ap  Rys  ap  if.  llwyd  &c. 

336  Tiidiir  ap  Gronwy  ap  T.  ap  Gronwy  ap  Edn:  v'n  &c. 
343  Plant  ac  etifeddion  yr  arg:  Rys 

349  {{  ap  Radiir  ap  mor  ap  llywarch  gene  mygrvdd  &c. 

p.  Hen  gadwgon  ap  gr:  ap  gwrgenav  ap  mabron  ap  goch  o 
liwel  .  .  .  triswllt  a  iij^  oeS  brif  westva  pob  vn  oi  [veibon] 
ymaenor  IL.  y  ddevsant  &c. 

351  Ho:  goch  ap  Kadwgon  goch  ap  kad:  ap  gr:  &c. 

352  Grono  goch  ap  elidir  goch  ap  gwrgenav  vychan  &c. 

354  Tri  mab  kadifor  ap  gwynn  =  bledri,  ftn,  a  thrahayarn 

Sann  bledri :  gwidigaer,  ac  elfed,  tri  tliraean  LI.  ddyfrwr,  kastell  koch  yn 
halaehani,  penddin,  LI.  deilo,  oantrefwyar  penrryn  a  maenor  gaiu  a  thir  koed 
ItafE  ac  ystakbwl  o  ddyar  ddinbycli 

Jtann  It'n :  kwmwd  yslwy 

Rann  trahayarn  :  o  ffordd  gefu  tref  lech  hy[d]  gcfnffordd  llannwynoc 

Teirbera}  Y.  B. — Trystan  ap  Tallwch  .  .  .  Gwyn  ap  Nvdd  .  . 
aegan   ap   koel   garnaoh    ap   afri  o   peridon  o  Iwyth  diri  yw   heuw  marchoc  y 
ffynnon  yghymraec  ac  yn  ffrangec  mwnbenyd 

355  J.  ap  Einion  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c. 

356  Buellt :  Rikart  ap  Einion  ap  kyn  ap  mevric  &c. 
Glynn  aeron  :  Ryddj  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  gr.  &c. 

359  II D.  ap  gr:  voel  ai  blant  =  gr:  hir  &c. 

360  Vwch  kerdin:  ftn  ap  gtm  llwyd  ap  gtm  &c. 

363  Gloddailh  :  Tomas  mostyn  ap  Ris  ap  ho:  ap.  J.  V'n  &c. 

365  Eiddionydd  :  p.  Elissav  ap  morys  o  gattrin  v}  pirs  yslaule  &c. 

366  ILyn — kelli  wic :  O.  ap  tiidiir  vychan  ap  ho:  &c. 

„         Trygarn  :  To:  ap  Rob:  ap  rrisiart  &c. 

367  Penllech :  J.  ap  rrobeii;  ap  ftn  ap  morgan  &c. 
TLeyn — kefn  amwlch :  J.  Gr:  ap  J.  gr:  ap  D.  V'u  &c, 

368  Saethon  :  Rob:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  V'n  &c. 
IL.  dy  gicnin ;  W.  ap  gr:  ap  W.  ap  J.  karrec  &c. 

369  Bodwrda :  Hvw  ap  rrisiart  ap  J.  ap  madoc  &c. 
Pennllech  :  J.  ap  rrobert  ap  ftn  ap  morgan  &c. 

370  Penn  llyn :  Morgan  a|)  J.  ap  J.  ap  Rys  &c. 

371  IL.  ystvndwy  :  Gr:  a|i  Rob:  vychan  up  ho:  &c. 

372  JL.  V'el  ymychallacth  :  gr:  ap  f .  ap  gr:  ap  ftn  &c. 

373  JT/,  gedwyn :  Rob:  ap  moras  ap  J.  ap  ho: 

N  N  2 


860  PENURTH  MANUSCRIPT   136, 

875  Eglieyssec :  J.  ap  Edw:  ap  R.  ap  gwilim  &c. 

377  Owin  ap  John  ap  ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c. 

378  ILys  veissir:  D.  llwyd  ap  niklas  ap  R.  &c. 

379  Pentrcf  kyn: — Roetsier  tref or  ai)  Roetser  T.  &c.. 

380  keinmeirch :  W.  ap  Reinallt  ap  Mred:  ap  gtm  &c. 
alrre, :  J.  ap  Elis  ap  Ris  ap  ho:  &c. 

383  Hafod  ywern  :  S.  ptYstwn  ap  pirs  ap  S.  P.  Ac. 

384  y  llai :  syr  Edw:  pifetwn  ap  syr  Roetsier  P.  &c. 

385  Tref  alvn :  S.  trefor  ap  S.  T.  ap  Ric:  Trefor  &c. 
plwyf  marthin  :  J.  trefor  o  wigynt  ap  Edw:  ap  J.  &c. 

389  Kors  y  gedol :  R.  vychan  ap  W.  vychan  ap  gr:  &c. 

390  Ej.  gollen  :  Tudiir  ap  J.  wynn  .  .  o  gart  y  freuhines  &c. 

391  Some  account  of  the  Reed  vel  Ryd  family  of  grene  castell  .  .  » 
kaer  merdin 

393  Tho:  Hughes  knight  maryed  Eliz:  fferrours  &c. 

397  A  description  of  the  arms*  of  Gweawynwyn,  Hofa,  Kadrod 
hardd,  Korinevs  iarll  keirnyw,  kyhelyn,  Gr:  ap  Mad:  ap  ynyr,  Ynyr  o 
ial,  Gr:  ap  Mad:  ddv,  0.  ap  Mred:  /  Mad:  gloddiayth  brenhin  iwerddon 
.  .  .  Iferis,  .  .  .  Conwey,  .  .  .  konias,  arg:  aber  gefeni  (399)  .  .  .  Ric 
mytyn,  .  .  heilin  ap  gr:  /  Syr  D.  kriadoc,  hoke*,  Gr;  llwyd  ap 
ho:  goch,  sir  Ric:[her]ber  .  .  Tref  Rvddlann  (401),  .  .  .  abergefni, 
pilstwn,  motwn  (404)  .  .  .  BeU  ap  llvdd  &c.  (405),  Gwervil  V3  D. 
ap  Jer:  .  .  .  Gwalchmai  (406)  ....  Rys  ap  tewdwr  (407)  .  .  .  .  ftn 
varf  hvnawc  &c. 

41 1  Meilienydd :  Margred  V3  O.  ap  gr:  ap  mred:  vychan  &c. 
Halchdyn  :  Jan  V3  W.  ap  John  ap  Ric:  llwyd 

412  Genealogical  table  of  the  Lords  of  Mowddwy.     See  also  p.  393. 
415  llechylched  y  mon  :  Lewys  ap  ho'l  ap  ]fer:  ap  ho'l  &c. 

417  Ihvydiarth     „         D.  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Gim  &c. 
418t  Myfyrian  y  mon:  Ric:  ap  Ryddj  ap  D.  ap  J. 

419  Edw:  aimer  ap  Jhon  ap  Jhon  &c. 

420  Tudr  trefor  ap  kadvarch  &c. 
Gr:  ap  kynan  ap  iago  &c. 

421  Rodri  mawr  ap  esyllt  V3  kynan  Dindaethwy  &c. 
BeU  mawr  ap  mauogan  &c. 

422  Kvnedda  ap  rregav  V3  lyr  ap  bleiddyn  &c. 

423  krvpvl  ap  gr:  varwn  gwynii  ap  gr:  arg:  dinas  bran  &c. 
427-82  Dyma  lyvr  arfav  0  waith  Wiliam  llyn,%  being  crude 

pen  and  ink  sketches  of  coats  of  arms,  many  of  which  have  no  names 
attached  to  them. 

483  TLyma  Gopi  or  ystent  y  hymwd  vchaf  ...  a  wnaethbwyd  gar 
bron  John  dolfiFys  lyf  tenant  Richard  jarll  arundel  vstvs  gwyucdd  oed 
Edwart  in  xxvi  drwy  Iwf  a  deall  tenantiaid  y  kymwd  gwyr  Ryddion 
a  gwyr  kaethion  ac  yn  ol  dwyn  deall  vddvnt  devddec  o  wyr  Ryddion  y 
kymwd  i.e. 

Madog  ap  D.  llwyd  J.  ap  enion  ap  llywareh 

Madog  vychan  kyfnerth  ap  Dd: 

ho'l  ap  gr:  aji  D.  Madoc  ap  enion  ap  Jer: 

Enion  ap  kyfnerth  Gr:  ap  grono 

^.  ap  gr :  ap  Jer :  Edw :  ap  Madoc 

Madoc  ap  ho :  llwyd  Bleddyu  ap  Madoo 


*  The  arms  of  many  members  of  the  English  peerage  are  gi\en.  Many  names 
are  imperfect  at  the  margins. 

+  o  law  John  brwyuoc     .  1562. 

J  This,  as  well  as  Wiliam  llyx  athro  kerdb  oAroD,  is  written  on  the  bottom 
maigin  of  p.  479  in  a  hand  like  that  of  Huw  Llyu. 


G.   SlRAEffioG  AND  W.   LLYN.  861 

Grugorion :  Yn  j  dref  honn  y  mae  vii  afael  Kyddion  i.e.  gafael 
gronwy  ap  Edn:  /  ^er:  ap  tin  /  ho:  ap  kyfnerth  /  arddeircbion  /  lio'l  / 
ednyweiu  /  kynfyn  / griffri  /  Etifeddion  groiio  ap  £dn:  /  Ho:  ap  gronwy  / 
Tudur  ap  gronwy  ac  eraill  oi  gyd  etifeddion  ac  ni  thaleut  ddim  ir 
arglwydd  namyn  kyrcbv  ssir  a  myned  ir  Kj'fel  gidar  arglwydd  ar  i 
meircli  ai   kost  i    hvnain  xl   diwrnod    a  chwedi  liynny  ar    gost  yr 

arglwydd  dros  bob  gvvasanaetb  arall a  ffob  vn  or  iiii  afael 

hynny  eitbr  gi'ono  ap  ednyfed  a  banner  gafael  gynfyn  y  inac  bo:  ap 
gi'ono  ac  eraill  oi  gyd-eiifeddiou  yn  i  cbynnal  ac  a  ddylant  wnevthvr 
sud  sir  a  hwndrwd  a  tbalv  dros  bob  ybediw  a  ffob  gobr  ac  amobr 
pen  ddisciuo  arnynt  &c.  &c. 

Then  follow  the  "extents"  oi  Bodvayo  &  Dwygyfylchi  (487), 
Gwic  (493)  —  Tref  anedic  yw  honn  3W  deall  i  bod  o  encdigaeih   ac 

ynddi  mae  dvvy  afael  <fcc bamedic  yw  .  .  .  na  ddylai  y  nieibion 

eillioa  or  vn  Ryw  dref  gaffael  dim  dros  garies  ir  arglwydd  eithr   a 

Byngo  bod  yr  arglwydd  i  roi  vddvnt  &c Bod  silin  {A91),  .  .y 

ty  hir  ....  ILanvair  (498)  viij  afael  ryddion  &c.  .  .  •  y  mae 
yngafael  lywarch  amgan  i  log  a  banner  o  dir  ssied  a  fv  ciddo  fleddyn 
liwtb  &c. 

507  Maelor  Gymraec  0  veion  [pl'\ivy  givryxsam :  p.  John  ap 
pylston  hen  o  vers  =  John  ap  pylston  tir  mon  (o  verch  bugb  lewys)  a 
gafas  yw  Ean  plas  Hafod  y  wern  o  vewn  gwryxsam  /  Syr  John 
Pylston  marcbog/  Rob:  P.  /  liych:  P.  /  a  Master  hugh  P.  &c.  &c. 

514  p.  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Jer:  vychan  =:  D.  /  if.  &c. 

olC  p.  Edw;  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  =  syr  D.  bickar  Ruabon  &c. 

520  p.  Rob.  D.   [ap]   gr:  ap  D.    ap  bady  =  J.  Wyn  sersiant  of 

522  p.  J.  evrthic  ap  .D.  goch  =  Edw:  evrthic  &c.  [arms  &c. 

524  p.  D.  ap  J.  ap  Jankyn  ap  ftn  ap  ^thel  goch  &c. 

525  p.  Edw:  ap  Ho:  ap  Madoc  ap  ho:  ap  J.  &c. 

527  p.  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  bady  ap  J.  voel  =  Rob:  &c, 

529  p.  Rob:  Johnes  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  Edw:  &c. 

530  p.  Rob;  Sonlli  ap  Rob:  wyn  ap  morgan  &c. 

531  Geirie  gan  tal  iessin  ai  gyngor  ai  gyssvl 

Ymofyn  a  doeth  tewi  wrth  jnvyd  ymoglvd  Kac  diroidi 

nid  oes  gwir  eb  voliant  ir  drindod     .... 

nid  kyfarwydd  ond  a  gerddo  nid  ysbys  ond  a  welo 

nid  hybarch  neb  lie  mynych  gyro 

nid  toeth  gwerthv  nefoedd  er  benthic  y  bresfen     .... 

nid  kystlwng  heb  dad  /  nid  yingeledd  eb  fam 

nid  gwlad  heb  lywodraeth 

Then  follow  a  collection  of  triads  (p.  535)  the  beginning  of  which  ig 
fragmentary  :    ' 

Tripheth  ni  chaiff  dyn  ddigon  o  lionynt  byth:  hoedl  iecbyd  a 
chyvoeth  bydol  ....  ends:  Tri  phelh  a  gar  merch  ievank:  Uinyn 
sidan  pais  gocb  &c. 

Yu  ll{/f7-J.  ap  Jhon  ap  Mred:  or  glyn  i  ked  y  iii  doleu  (pp.  .^iai-O)  hjnn. 

[G.  Hiraethog.'] 


'  Ms.  137  =  Hen.  251  and  S68.  Peophecies,  Poetky,  Pedigrees, 
the  LORDSHIP  OF  Powis,  the  Blessed  Ointment  &c.  Paper;  about 
Six  6' inches;  31G  pages  repaired  throughout  and  deranged  by  the 
binder  ;  xvitb  century  ;  half-calf. 

The  MS.  is  in  several  hands.  Pages  1-104  (some  of  which  are  fragmentary  and 
some- gall-stained)  contain  the  originals  of  much  in  jUostyn  MS.  133.  A  good  many 
pages  have  apparently  been  lost  since  1 604  when  J.  Jones  of  GelH  lyvdy  copied  this 


86^  fENIAfifn  MAKfUSCillPT  iSf. 

jiart  of  the  MS.  which  was  written  in  the  reign  of  Henry  vni.  Pages  105-28,  131- 
56  (more  or  less  imperfect)  are  in  a  later  hand;  pages  159-316  (also  largely 
imperfect)  are  nearly  all  in  the  hand  of  John  ap  Rys  and  bear  the  date  1341 
(p.  18;!)— some  pages  are  in  a  paler  ink  with  the  date  1588  (p.  219).  Other  pages 
contain  a  reference  to  Queen  Klizabeth.  The  contents  of  this  pedigree  portion  of 
the  MS.  are  very  difficult  to  give — nearly  all  of  them  seem  to  concern  Krug  Eryr. 

1    II  ac  ef  a  elwir  y  brenin  trvgarawc  .  .  .   ends:  .  .  .  Tribrenina 
oiirymawdd  )essu  vab  duw  Thomas  assih*** 

b.  Goiddot  vronn  gorvod  kyvyd  vaddon     ....  a 

goresgynawr  llawr  gv/l&A  vawr  vrython 
athros  weilgi  rrwyvav  devpi  dial  brython  Ac* 

3  Val  rrod  yn  troi  tramaeth  hwylav  &c.*  ^nid.  b 

4  IIMerddin  wyllt  ai  gelwis  ef  y  baedd  or  fEorest  wynnoc  &c.*  c 

5  mi  a  dysdiaf  yn  gynttaf  ir  haf  hir  velyn  &c.*  t'OS/.  d 

6  brwydr  ddyfrwaed  brwydyr  ddewrion  e 
bi'wydjr  wyneb  y  diarhebion  &c. 

7  1/  gnodie :  ||  genawd  i  ddyfed  Ivdded  .  .  .  geaawd  rrinwedd  g 

gaa  gadarn     genawd    baru    o  ben  Tri  dyn genawd  keladd 

yngenav  rryd. 

b.     [Pum]  bys  sydd  ar  vy  Haw  &c.  fm*  * 

9  ||brenhinbren  a  dorir  ac  awascerir  i  dda[il  ai]  geinkiav  ar 
baladyr  a  dros  dair  erw  .  .  ends :  j  ki'oessewir  fEraink  ar  dal  vaink 
ddewi  .  .  .  y  tyr  pvra  bailor  mor  y  mynnydd  sebr  Tal  Jessin 

b.  Projfwydoliaeth  y  dissiav :  Myfi  a  cliwereais  y  dissie  a 
gwedi  liyuny  y  dahler  yr  awrhon  myfi  a  af  ir  dolbwrdd  ....  ends  : 
yna  y  mae  amser  ymoglud  rrac  gwyr  eglwyssic  duw  achos  i  maen 
yn  dit'a  dydd  a  nos  ac  estronion  a  ssialeinsia  gyfiwnder  a  chywilydd 
oedd  i  loegyr  vod  ystronion  yn  vchaf.  ]l\.\l 

12  Pryderawd  kevdawd  priawd  prydain     ....  i 
kyfnod  gwedi  i  orvod  yni  arvav         ffeinvs                     fio^fi 

13  Yf alien  beren  ady  ynglan  llyn    ....  k 
yna  y  daw  ellmyn  dros  vor  i  orescyn                            tlUm 

b.       kynawr  ddygwawr  amddigyfin     ...»  / 

a  llywio  pobyl  ger  pibyl  \W[n 

14  pan  achwyn  llwyn  UudJed  ayron  y  deyryd  tair  cbwioredd  y 
bydd  kyffro  ar  vedd  beudigeidvran  &c.  \\\2a 

b.      Y  mort[m]eriaid  yn  heidiav  a  chymrv  yn  gadav  m 

a  Uoegyr  heb  gyngor  ac  angor  ar  longav  &c,  tll26 

15  Pan  noethcr  gwybodev  &c.  ^Wid  n 

b.  Pan  ddel  gwynion  gynafon  i  greigiav  brytain  &c.         \l\2e  o 

c.  Hoyann  borchellan  o  borchellyn  &c.    Merddin  wylU  fiufp 

16  y  fflowr  ddylis  a  vlodeva  a  llawer  a  ddwc  o  geinkav  &c.    f  102  q 

17  II  Ac  arth  ynhevbarth  yngarthyenav :  J* 
ac  ymgyfodi  rys  a  brya  ayrav  &c. 

b,     yr  hoU  ddyrogan  netli  gan  yscolan  s 

ni  cliafas  y  prifeirdd  ond  y  trayan     .     •     >    • 
a  wrthnebon  oddiwrth  vn  bla  athraba  saysson  t  H^c 


*  The  bottom  halves  of  pages  1'6  are  missing  and  the  texts  arc  fragmentary, 
j  'i'liese  numbers  refer  to  the  piigee  of  this  Catalogue, 


25 


33 


PROPHEClfib',  863 

18     GochM>ibaii  gwynt  yn  arvon  a 

djgymyrth  hejTn  hoyw  hwyly  dyn  ai  addon  &c.      [fi046 

20     A  fragment  ending :  bid  yno  gymro  yn   kymryd  alldudion 

b.    krist  kadw  yr  wythved  brenin  dyledoc     ....  b 

krist  drycha  well  well  krist  waed  yrchoUioc    Rys  nanmor 

Pan  vo  6620  yu  derfyn  o  ddechrav  Addaf  Iivd  yr  haf  hir    c 

velyn  &c.  "  t  112^ 

b.  Mevddin  a  ddyvod  y  kyvodai  gath  las  or  dwyrain  &c.     f  112    d 

28  Byd  addaw  bryd  wrth  arve  &c.     f  USA       Merddin  Wyllt   e 

29  Pan  ddel  dihafarchlu  0  barlh  glev  i  aber  liodni  &c.  f  i\2i  f 

30  Pedwar  kynwr  ar  yyrys  addaw  ir  ynys  &c.  f  io3;j  g 
b.  Pan  vo  oedran  mab  mair  kyroyw  dec  1460  &c.         f  112  k  h 

31  Ef  a  gafas  moessen  rrac  eirvawr  angen     ....  i 
am  hedd  a  rryfel  ar  y  brvdonicaf                              Taliessin 
Krist  )essu  am  ku  am  kydvydd  &c.                             t  112'      k 

34  Hoean  borcbellan  mor  aurryfedd  &c.  t  ll2m      I 

35  Proffydoliaeth  yr  Ertjr  Maivr :  \\  ir  kenhedloedd  eraill  ac  i 
vrenin  [Uychlyn]  &c.  +  112 

42-4,  61-2  Pryffedoliaeth  y  keiloc  :  Mynych  alwed  yr  eos  &c.  t^^ 
46*  II  i  henw  ef  a  ddynessa  Hew  y  wirionedd  ac  ar  i  veichiat  ef 
yddergrynant   tiroedd  ffraink  a  dreigiav   yr  ynyssedd  yniddyddiav    ef 
y  daw  yr  avr  or  liliwm  &c.  I  m 

63  y  lili  a  vlodeva  ai  vlodav  &c.  m 
b.  Ys  may  vi  dillad  nid  llin  daearad  &c.         f  ii2)i  n 

64  DroganSf  vi  hynn  kad  ymhob  meynn  &c.         f  113"  " 

65  krist  Jessu  keli  ytty  koeliaf  &c.         f  1136  p 

66  Gwyr  monn  a  wely^n  i  ar  vn  penrryn         f  J076  q 

79J  ir  kadarnaf    ai    gorysgynno  ac   velly   y    Trfynaf   iaion   yti- 
fcddiaeth  lloeger  yn  kolli  yn  dJagywydd 

b.  JLyma   broffwydoliaeth  athron  Twiys :  Y  mae  rai  yn  meddyl- 
iaw  ac  yn  dyallt  &c.        f  113 

82  gwyn  i  vyt  y  gwyndyt  byddo  beli  &c.         -f  io3y  r 

b.  kaiilan  llyw^doc  arvoc  eirvvdd  &c.         f  ii3e  s 

88  Gwr  a  lefair  yn  y  bedd  &c.        f  113c         Merddin  Wyllt  t 

89  Brenhiniaeth- yr  ysgotiait  a  vv  gynt  &c.         f  113  u 
91  koronoc  vaban  medd  taliessin  &c.         f  io3«  v 

93  Pan  oddi  rrissidrt  Tieb  elani  ebedyn  eryri  &c.   \\\zy  Idnin  v .  to 
b.  Dysgogan  awen  lien  a  herwydd  &c.         f  113/i        Taliessin  x 

94  Orddot  vron  gorot  gwiscan  dair  kat  &c.  ||         f  103'  V 
.56  llgwae  ef  rrvddlan  i  mewn  ac  allan    ....                        z 

nac  ir  ariant  dim  nis  kaffan  Taliessin 

b.     ILevv  prydain  yn  llvndain  yn  Ilaitb  &c. 

*  It  is  not  easy  to  follow  the  order  of  the  pages  as  the  text  is  partly  imperfect  at 
the  corners  and  much  of  what  remains  is  deeply  gall  stained.  The  leaves  con- 
taining the  Prophecy  of  Merlin  hefore  Gwrthej  rn  are  hopelessly  mixed  up. 

t  These  numbers  refer  to  the  pages  of  this  Catalogue. 

X  It  is  di£5cult  to  decide  where  this  begins,  and  what  pages  belong  to  it. 


864>  • 


PENIAMH  itANUSCRI^T  iSl 


98  TLyma  val  y  dywawt  merddin  emrysain  y  baedd ;  gwedi  yr 
iifyr  y  daw  baedd  yr  hwn  y  bydd  iddo  ben  doeth  a  chalon  Hew  &c.* 

koronoc  vaban  daw  byd  briw  breiddvan  &c.     a  fragment  flll/a 
kaer  'gyffin"  a  dinbech  a  ddistrywir     ....  h 

ir  tarw  teri  natvr  a  gyi-onir         wanting  middle 


99 
100 

101 


ILyma  vyd  rryfodd  rrvvaia  ar  benn  bys                                    c 
Uyma  ynys  ronwen  &c. 

b.     Naw  kwys  anwahardd  aer  &c.  _d 

102  Havl  galed  y  goleviii  &c.         f  \i\g  e 

b.  kyfyd  ffair  rrwng  y  pedair  ffynon  f  IHA                           / 

c.  klyddyddav  gyloywon  i  gledoa  &c.  f  ill£       y  bardd  kwsc  g 

103  T)uw  assodes  tryynn  pob  tir  &c.  f  103A                              li 

lOSf  [Mae]  eryr  ar  hoU  wyr  lien     ....  i 

yu  arfav  maen  ar  vy  medd  gvtor  glyn 

109     [y  kaejriwrch  ffwrch  fEoawdvr     ....  k 

dy  groisi  bryd  egroesen  D,  ap  gwilim 

111     Tri  llv  aeth  drwy  gymrv  gynt    ....  I 

kymry  a  dry  yn  dy  raid  gvttor  glyn 

115     [Wy]lofvs  wyf  val  afon     ....  m 

achanwyll  ir  wreichionen  „        „ 

118     Gwn  nad  ta  gwae  enaid  dyn     ....  n 

[A]  bodd  dvw  ni  bydd  diwedd  John  heri 

121     Pwy  a  dyr  gwaiw  val  ppwdwr  gwyllt      ...  o 

ty  trigwres  at  roiwowgrwydd  tvdvr  aled 

126  _f  0.  Evtvn :  Bvm  er  yn  flwydd  yn  swyddwr     ....       p 
Tair  oes  a  ddel  tros  y  ddav  Anon 

For  pages  129-30  see  after  page  156. 

181     Arwydd  sor  a  roddais  i     .     .     .     ,  q 

o  gwningod  fo  gaiff  giniaw  D.  ap  Edmwnt 

134    Dewrder  rroed  i  wrda  yr[awgj     ....  r 

er  i  fwyn  i  roi  vy  enaid  Tudur  aled 

137     Pwy  vlaenor  pobyl  y  wenol     ....  s 

[cbyc]hwi  sy  ben  chwecboes  byd  „        „ 

141     Bv  sessiwn  mi  ai  gwn  ai  gynal  yn  dost    ....  t 

odid  byw  wedi  dy  ben  „         „ 

149     [Powys  Ijwyd  pwy  sy  wladwr     ....  m 

rrag  kvror  ewig  liirwen  Tvdur  Aled 

153     [Cwr]s  Jigar  kerais  degav§     ....  v 

nid  wy  drist  onid  [ai  draw]  „         „ 

129^  Gwell  yw  gwr  oi  bercbi.  Gwell  yw  gwraic  oi  chanmol    .   .   . 

G.  bodd  pob  dyn  noi  anfodd  G.  yw  dvw  no  dim 
b.   ■  Kyngor  Tal:  i  vab  :  Nac  ymddiried  ir  neb  ath  vygythio  .  .  , 
na  cbais  gellwair  ath  gas  .  na  chais  ymryson  ath  well 
130     A  garo  gael  kyngor  gofyned  ir  doethaf. 


*  irra^nicDt.  f  These  numbers  refer  to  the  pages  of  this  Catalogue. 

J  Piiges  705-56  are  in  a  later  hand. 

S  This  line  kcgius  a  cowydd  hy  D.  ap  Gwilim. 

\  Wv'K-i  129-.1U  teem  to  belong  to  MS.  136,  pp.  531-0.  They  arc  in  the  auto- 
pniph  of  Gr:  Hiraetbog,  with  the  exception  of  a  few  lines  in  thp  hand  of  Simwut 
V^thiiu  writlen  iu  the  lire-time  of  his  master. 


PO^TRtf  AND  PEDIGREES.  86o 

b.  Ni  wyr  ni  wyl,  ni  wyl  ni  ddysc     .... 
nid  ymddiddan  oud  am  ddvw 

c.  has  bethe  O.  liyfelioc  :  kryawas  eb  gamp  &c. 
157  Genealogical  chart — imijerfect 

159  Plant  Mred:  vychaii  =  I)d:  a  liowel  &c. 

161  J.  ap  Hn  krygeryr  ap  pb:  ap  moyryg  &c. 

162  Gi"  ap  ph;  ap  ph:  ap  moyryg  a  gr:  vychan  &c. 

163  o  ordderch  }   dayth  siankia  ap  K. /Bq  vychau  a   ho:   go)  a 

moyryg  ko3  a  ho:  go3  sioned  V5  ho:  &c. 

164  p.  sion  ap  J.  ap  tin  =  ph:  /  J.  a  morys  &c. 

165  p.  bedo  ap  ho:  =  Lewys,  Jhon  &c. 
169  Rych:  Uoyd  ap  J.  wyu  ap  J.  Uoyd  &c. 

171  p.  Gr:  ap  hughe  ap  moyryg  =  gr:  vychan  &c. 

172,  179  p,  tho:  a  Rych:  meib  twmlyn  &c. 

173  p.  ac  wyron  Jhon  ap  Morgau  =  D.  ddii  &c. 

174,  190  p.  ac  -wyron  Styvyn  =  Lewys  o  T5  ho:  ap  gr:  D\ynu  &c. 

176  p.  Styvyn  ap  R.  ap  Hn  =  R.  a  ho:  a  Jhon  &c. 

181  p.  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  ap  Madog  =  kadwgan  &c. 

183   Coppi  or  stret  y  fed  ychen  yr  hrewen  yr  hrtvn  a  barodd  R. 

dew  ap  J.  gwtta  a  Rickart   j  v?-awd  j  scriveny  oed  yr  arglwydd 

M     D      xl)  syr  icalter  morys  ai  scrivenodd  wytnes  myvi  Jhon  ap  lis 

b.  )tem  ar  verched  howell  ap  gr:  bengrych  *  *  *  *  Itn  ap  gr:  y 

vrawd  iiijs  v  «  *  ends :  ']ftem  ar  aunest  V5   D.  ardir  ydildye  iij'l  ob  * 

185  A  loell  approved  medicin  to  \iVftsarv  *  *  for  the  plug 
b.  Mam  Jhon  ap  O.  ap  ho:  ap  gwallter  &c. 

18V  p.  D.  ap  phelpod  ap  ho:  ap  jvor  =  ho:  /  f .  /  watkia  &c. 

189  Table  of  the  descendants  of  itn  ap  ho:  athro  or  bryn  driaog 
b.  Dewi  /  vab  /  sanct  /  vab  /  keredig  &c. 

190  Table  of  the  descendants  of  syr  gr:  Uwyd  &  Ph:  dorddii 

191  Pym  brenhinlhoytli  hymry :  Gr:  ap  kynan  &c. 

192  givehelyth  elceJ  :  kodwgaii  ap  ho:  vychau  &c. 

193  Trer  delyn  ney  dal  llyn  :  p.  D.  ap  R.  ap  meyryg  &c. 

194  A  brief  chronicle  :  \\  y  dref  ai  llosci  ag  yno  y  pen:ietiiaid  pou 
ai  wyr  yn  y  vhvyddyn  riac  wyneb  yr  aeth  ^.  vrenin  jwerddon  .  .  . 
dwy  vlynedd  or  vrwydr  yn  hervyn  yn  j  ddistrywyd  kasfell  y  ddissertli 
dengmlynedd  yn  yr  vn  kynhaiiif:  (m.  cc.  Ixv.  p.  196)  i  kad  deganwy 
a  ffenarddylac  &c.,  .  .   .  ends  with  the  death  of  Edward  1. 

197  p.  brychan:  kynog  ranhadled  vro  vanhadla  ymhowys  i  vam  &c. 

199  [Bonedd  y  Saint]  :  Dewi  fab  sane  vab  kyredig  .  .  .  Doc- 
weal  ap  jthel  hael  ap  kcrcdig  .  .  .  Peder  ap  konvw  ap  k  .  .  .  ends  : 
Eda  glvnvawr  ap  gwyuber  dorchawg  &c, 

204  Bryclian  brecheinog  ap  korinwy  &e. 

205  Gr:  ap  E.  ap  hari  brawd  arg:  powys  &c.  tad  ianglwst  gwraig 

J.  ap  itn  krygeryr  &c. 

206  &  267  ^euan  blaene  &  his  relatives 

213  Morgan  ap  S.  ap  gtm  ap  R.  ap  S.  ap  R.  ap  gr:  or  hevcn  hir 
ag  o  llioyn  hoiddliw  ymhlwy  llawver  acholva 

215  IL.  V'el  nantmelan  :  S.  Uoyd  /Rye:  Uoyd/  S.  wyn  &c. 
b.  J  priodassay  o  Hn  hryg  cryr  hyd  at  Rye:  hoddyw 

216  A'list  of  English  kings  from  W.  '  bastard '  to  Elizabeth. 

b.  Edwart  stiwart  now  in  the  kiping  of  J.  Vychan  on  of  the 

council  of  Jorke 

c.  kyneddfe  y  keilog  ;    Y  keilog  yssydd  organ  y  nos  bardd  y 

tywyllwch  Rciigill  ydydd  &c. 

217  Rychart  plantagenet  had  yshiw  Edw:  iiii  .  .  .  late  king  &c. 
213  Mciylor  S.—syr  To:  hangmcr  np  R.  ap  gr:  &c. 

b.  Edw:  0  Chorltwn,  arg:  Powys,  Hawys  gadarn  &c. 


SCd  PElvflARTH  MAjfuSCRIPf   137. 

219  ^non  sais  a  vy  yn  trigo  ynghrygeryr  .  .  .  )  faerdii  oedd  yfl 
ysglys  V  fan  ag  yuo  j  roedd  \  vorynion  yn  drin  \  dda  a  hwynt  yn  pori 
av  y  fforest  .  .  .  He  a  elwir  baili  jnon  sais  hyd  heddiw     1.5.8.8. 

224  syr  Rosser  vychan  ap  syr  W.  Vychaii  ap  Watkin 
b.   Gwehclyth  o  elvel :  "Jvor  hen  ap  ^er:  ap  bran  &c. 

225  p.  Ho:  ap  madogk  =  kadogan  /  kadwallnn/pli:  dordrlii  &c. 
227  The  history  of  Hawys  gadarn  and  her  descendants  in  English. 

233  The  advent  into  Wales  of  (1)  Roger  mountgomery,  Erie  of 
Arnndel,  (2)  hugh  lupus,  Erie  of  Chester  ...  (4)  bernard  newmarch 
for  brecknock,  (5)  Ralph  mortymer  for  elvel,  (6)  hugh  de  lacie  for 
the  land  of  Ewyas  &c. 

234  Pen  Ros:  syr  Roger  Williams  (Bart)  ap  Tho:  W.  &c. 

235  A  list  of  Roman  "emperours"  :  Julius  Caesar  Rayned  in  all 
not  fully  /  V  /  vers  ....  Honorius  after  his  brother'*  death  reyned 
XV  yeres  &e. 

239  The  Divisions  of  the  lordship  of  Powis :  Kynta  dyn  yn  ol 
ytifeddion  brochwel  ysgethrog  a  veddianodd  arglwyddieth  bywijs  a 

vy  vleddyn  ap  kynvyn ar  Owain  hwnnw  arglwydd  Glyn- 

dyfyrdwy  pan  oedd  o.k  1400  i  kyfodes  ar  kymry  gidag  ef 

ends  with  the  Charltons 

247  Henway  y  xxiv  brenin  or  brytauiaid  ag  a  vyont  oray  ag  a 
varnwyd  yn  wrolaf  &c. 

251  g.  gyntaf  i   fredydd  [fychan  o  fylenydd  oedd  V3  kodwgan  &c. 

253  Stori  yr  olew  hendiged  gwedi  droi  o  lyfr  lucas  or  Hading  : 
Nasaciens  kefnder  "]  bredyr  ap  Efrog  y  penaf  o  varchogion  y  ford 
gronne  or  pan  y  gossodes  merddin  yn  vthiir  bendragou  hyd  talm  o 
oes  arthiir  ag   yna  ir  aeth  nasciens  yn  feiidwy  ir   kapel   peryglus 

ends :  ag  wedi  hyny  ni  wyddiis  pale  i  ddaeth  etto  hyd  pan 

welo  i  arddangos 

256  gr:  ap  W.  vychan  ap  gtni  ap  gr:  &c. 

257  Kyntaf  henw  a  fiiar  yr  ynys  hon  oedd  albion  ynys  seff  oedd 

hyny  ywcn  ynys  achos  y  kreigie  gwnion eiids :  i  hyd  .  .  .  o 

le  a  elwyr  pen  whitster  yngherniw  hyd  y  raor  katnais  yr  hwn  a 
clwir  werydd  yn  iaith  vryttaneg  a  mwy  no  dav  kant  milllir  yw  i  lied 
nid  amgen  o  vyniw  hyd  yn  Yarmouth  yn  northffolke. 

259  Afalach  ap  aflach  ap  beli  mawr  ap  mynogan  &c. 

260  Tvdur  ap  gronwy  ap  tudiir  ap  gronwy  &c. 

b.  Elfel  ywch  mynydd :  Kydwgan  ap  ho:  sais  &c. 

261  Elwyddyn  eis.se  oddaykant  afiymmil  or  amsery  gwncythbwyd 
adda  hyd  pan  ddayth  krist  ....  1282  y  lias  fin  ap  gr:  (tywy)ssog 

263  ach  sion  ap  Rys  ap  J.  An  [kymry 

265  A  description  of  the  arms  of  Eiystan  glodrydd  (jarll  heufEordd), 
syr  gr:  vychan  &c.  &c. 

266  y  ydnabod  y  lliwie  ar  arfay:  arian  yw  lliw  gwyn  &c. 

272   Gicehelyth  o  aber  edw  yn  elvel:  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  einon  klyd  &c. 
Then  follow  Gwehelvth  Brecheinog  (273),  Aberhodni   (275),  ILaii- 
vihangell  (278),  Diiheybarth  (282),  Elvel  (283). 

289       Digara  i  gwnaeth  duw  gymwyll  .... 

*  *  *  Rinwedd  wedir  ynwaith  S.  y  hent 

291-300  The  text  on  the  upper  inside  part  of  these  pages,  which 
nre  in  English,  is  wanting.  They  contain  some  account  of  IL'n  ap 
^or:  drwynd'.vn  '  pryns  of  wals,'  of  Teter  the  Brie  of  Cornwal  who 
"forfeited  his  land"  in  Wales  &c,,  fvor  petite,  Gr:  ap  Ry a  ap  fvor 
petite,  &c,  &c. 

300  Mylenydd:  mam  Madog  ap  ho:  ap  madog  =  V5  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

301  Rhyfeddoday  ynys  brydain ends :  ]  may  bedd  ar  beti 

bryn  yn  yr  ynys  hon  yr  hwn  yssydd  gymhcssyr  i  bob  dyn  o  hyd  ar  ai 


tEJjiARTa  MAifusoniPT  138,  86? 

profo  ag  o  gostwng  dyn  blin  ar  i  liniaii  ef  a  fydd  diflin  yr  awr  bono 
mal  pa  kaffay  hir  orfEvvys 

304  The  inheritances  of  the  children  of  Rhys  ap  Gr:  &u. 

306  p.  Howel  dda  =  owain  &c. 

3U7  Brydorddin  :  syr  llychart  vychan  ap  To:  &c. 

309  Stori     y     tayr      tjwialen    3Ioyssen       *  *  *  •     y    groes     \ 

dioddefodd   kriat   erni      *  *  *  *    adda   ymhyradwys ends: 

krogassant  hwy  'Jessy  grist  ag  oddyuo  |r  '*"***  ni  j  yfEern  ag 
i  tynodd  ef  \  ddeissedikaf  o  #  *  #  *  Rodd  hynny  ymharadwys  \r 
hon  wlad  jrelom    *  #  *  *  Ac  velly  terfyna  &c. 


MS.  138  —  Hen.  MS.  111.  Pedigeees.  Paper;  8i  x  6  inches; 
638*  pages  ;  circa  1562;  strongly  bound  in  calf. 

This  manuscript  is  evidently  a  transcript  of  some  other  work  or  works,  as  it  is 
clearly  and  uniformly  written  throughout ;  the  first  words  in  paragraphs  are  in  red 
ink,  and  "  key  "  words  are  patched  with  green :  it  is  with  slight  exceptions  in  excellent 
condition.  The  brief  chronicle  in  it  ends  with  the  year  1551  ;  but  as  the  MS.  con- 
tains or  rather  should  contain  the  pedigrees  of  Tho :  Davies  "  bishop  of  St.  Asaph  " 
it  cannot  have  been  finished  before  the|  year  15G1  (p.  403  of  MS.  139  part  ii). 
Inferentially  however  it  was  completed  before  1565  (p.  295).  This  MS.  has  been 
attributed  to  Gr;  Hiraethog  but  the  writing  is  unlike  any  other  MS.  examined  by 
the  editor,  and  differs  from  other  pedigree  MSS.  in  being  free  from  entries  by  other 
hands  with  the  exception  of  the  name  "  Sian  "  filled  in  by  J.  Jones  of  Gelli  lyvdy 
(p.  143).     Eob:  Vaughau  however  used  this  MS. 

1  Index  II  Elys  ....  Robert 
23  John  o  Hangmer  ap  Jankyn  ap  syr  D.  ap  Ph:  &c. 

26  Maylor  :  gr:  ap  morgan  g03  ap  Jer:  Voel 

Roger/ J.  /  D.  llwyd  =  meib  flylib  ap  Mad:  ap  ^evaf  &c. 

27  Plant  Morgan  ap  ^er:  ap  gr:  ddv  =  Edw:  /  Ho:  /  tho:  &c. 

28  p.  Rye:  ap  Mad:  ap  itn  ap  edn:  gam  =  Rob:  /  J.  &c 

29  p.  Jankyn  ap  fev:  vychan  =  Morys  / 'Jankyn  lewys  yong 
.30  ^er:  goch  ap  Edn :  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  ddv  &c. 

John  ap  gr:  ap  Edn:  ap  ho:  ap  edn:  ap  Jev:  &c. 
Ho:  ap  gronw  ap  J.  ap  gronw  ap  hwfa  &c. 
31  Wm:  ap  Tho:  vychan  ap  tho:  [ap]  gr:  &c. 

34  IL'n  ap  D.  ap  Hwysgyn  ap  Robyn  ap  tho:  &c. 
Gr:  llwyd  ap  ho:  g03  ap  kwnws  ap  D.  &c. 

35  I'vm  Jiostoivgllicyth  kymry  yngwynedd :  y  bhiidd  Rvdd  or 
gest  &c.,  (2)  Tair  byriach,  (3)  Try  wyr  a  godet  ar  foncdd  :  y  byr 
asgwrn  &c. 

36  p.  kyndrw}n  =  Elvan  powys /gwion  /  kynou  &c. 
p.  O.  dirmic  —  korneu  /  gwion  /  Sidin  &c. 

37  Rysiart  ap  Uowarch  ap  kydelic  .  .  .  .  o  vedolwyn  yn  Ros 
jfs  alet :  f .  ap  Madoc  ap  R.  ap  'Jthell  ap  gr:  &c. 

Gr:  ap  D.  ap  elisev  ap  fer:  ap  O.  brogvntyn  &c. 

38  Ef  a  fv  i  Lowarch  hen  34  o  blant  .  .  '  a  heno  y  ddwy  vyhvnan.' 
Edwin  ap  gronw  ap  O.  ap  ho:  dda  ap  kadell/  Medd  eraill  edwin 

Bp  vsbarn  ap  olnet  ap  Malwynydd  or  gogyledd  (see  p.  59.) 

Edeirnion  :  D.  ap  tvdyr  ap  O.  vychan  &c. 

39  Arve  syr  Roger  o  kinastyr  &c. 

p.  Rigart  ap  kydwaladyr  ap  gr:  ap  kyuau  &c. 


*  Pages  408-10  of  MS.  139  part  ii.  and  pages  271-62  oi part  i.  should  follow  at 
the  cud  of  this  MS,  to  which  they  belong. 


8^8  PfiNIAR'fH   MANUSCRIPT   138, 

40  Gtvehelyth  o  vorgamog  : — 

^er:  g03  ap  mred:/ap  bleddya  ap  kynfyn  &c. 

Syr  Thomas  Salbury — i  vam  oedd  Elssabeth  V5  Jaukyn  don  &c. 

p.  '].  ap  iin  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Ha  &c. 

41  Mon:  f .  ap  gwilim  ap  'Jthel  vychan  ap  Mad:  &c. 

42  Gwillim  ap  Rn  ap  ^.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

P.  gr:  ap  f  er:  ap  Mred:  =  gr:  vychan  /  ]fer:  /  ttn  &c. 

p.  f^er:  ap  gr:  =  Jer:  /  gr:  dwn  /  kyn:  &c.  (see  p.  .14) 

p.  Mad;  ap  Itn  vychan  =  The:  /  D.  /  Wm:  /  Res  Ac. 

43  Js  aled :  feuan  ap  Mad:  ap  Res  ap  Ithell  ap  gr:  &c. 

44  p.  0.  ap  Edwin  =  Gronw  /  Rlrid  /  Meilir  &c. 

p.  Edynowan  bendew  =  Mad  :  /gronwy  /  bletrus  /  Eob:  &c. 

45  p.  kydwaladyr  ap  gr:  ap  kynan  (I)   o  ddyddgr,    (2)    o  adles 
p,  kadwallon  ap  gr:  =  kvnedda/a  thanglwst  &c. 

iv  miiib  Res  goj  =  gwion  /  elidir  /  gtm  /  gwerydd  &c. 

46  Mon  :  ji.  niadoc  ap  Hn  vychan  =  The:  /  W.  /  D.  &c. 
Gr:  ap  -fevaf  go}  ap  )evaf  ap  Madoc  &c. 

47  p.  J.  ap  iin  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  Mred:  &c. 

48  Mon  :  Rich:  ap  Mred:  ap  Tho:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
50  O.  ap  Tvdvr  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  gtm  &c. 

62  Tndyr  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  U.  ap  Res  &c. 
J.  ap  gtm  ap  Ithel  vychan  ap  Mad:  &c. 

53  Gwilim  ap  ftn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

p.  gr:  ap  )er:  ap  Mred:  =  gr:  vychan  /^en  /  Hn  &c. 

54  Ho:  ap  Morys  ap  J.  gelhin  ap  Mad:  kyffin  &c. 

56  p.  J.  vychan  ap  J.  gethin  =  Ho:  /J.  &c. 

57  Gt:  ap  J.  gelhin  ac  ^olyn  ap  J.  Q.  &c. 

58  Kynllaith:  ]fer:  voel  or  Mynydd  mawr  ap  Mad:  ap  vrien  &c. 
Mochimnt :  p.  Mad:  ap  ]fer:  g03  ap  J.  voel  &c. 
Kynllaith  :  Ho:  ap  gr:  ap  edn:  ap  Jer:  g03  &c. 

60  y  deirnion  :  D.  ap  Tvdyr  ap  0.  vychan  ap  O.  hen  &c. 

„  D.  ap  iin  ap  O.  hen  ap  gr:  &c. 

61  „  ]f.  ap  gr:  ap  jf.  ap  eign:  ap  gr:  &c. 
jfal :  ftn  vychan  ap  'Jolyn  ap  ^evaf  &c. 

Poicys  G. — Ho:  ap  eign:  o  vochnant  ap  kyfnerth  &c. 
kroesyncallt :  p.  Ho:  ap  Eign:  goch  =  Edw:  /  Jhon  &c. 

63  D.  o  holbais  ap  f .  goch  ap  D.  ap  ^er:  &c. 
Swydd  y  Drewen :  D.  ap  eign:  ap  Mad:  ko5  &c. 

y  traian  :  D.  ap  eign:  ap  eign:  ap  eign:  ap  eign:  vychan  &c. 

64  „     Swydd  groes  ysswallt :  D.  ap  O.  ap  }er:  ap  hwfa  llwyd  &c. 

65  Tho:  ap  D.  np  tho:  ap  kyn:  ap  Meilir  &c. 

66  Poioys  G. — Devddwr :  D.  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  ftn  op  gr:  &c. 
y  trayan  :  Ei»giou  vychan  ap  edn:  ap  'jfer:  &c. 

67  D.  ap  gr:  ap  eigi):  ap  gtm  lydan  ap  gtm  &c. 

Nan  IJ[evdwy].  p.  ftn  ap  a-dda  ap  D.  ap  Jevaf  &c. 

68  P.  Syr  Rosier  powys  =  syr  Mevric  Ihvyd  /  Rogier  estwic  &c. 

69  p.  leva  go}'  =  Mad:  /  gr:  llwyd  /  a  ftn  g03  &c. 
gr:  ddv  ap  %  ap  Rirrit  ap  adda  ap  awr  &c. 
Riciart  trygarn  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

70  N'an  H. — p.  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  edn:  =  J.  trevor  /  Riciart  /  T.  &c. 

72  Kynllaith  :  p.  gr:  pp  edn:  ap  ^er.  go5  =  Ho:  /  R.  /  a  Mred  &c. 

73  Dehevbarth  :  Kys  ap  D.  ap  Tho:  ap  ftn  &c  [egwestl 
fal  :  D.  ap  j.  ap]f6r:  ap  J.  gettiin,  arg:  esgob  IL.  elwy  nc  abad  glyn 

74  p.  kaw  o  dwr  kelyn  =  dirmic  /  kilidd  /  Bangaw  /  vstic  &c. 

p.  Egri  o  dal  y  bolion  y  mon  =  Nvdd  /  Ronyn  &c.     [vrych  &c. 

75  pedigrees  of  Henry  ii,  Henry  vii,  mam  p.  Rodri  mawr,  Mervyn 

76  j^al :  Tvdyr  llwyd  ap  D,  llwyd  ap  Tvdyr  &c. 


PEDIGREES  AND   HERALDRY.  869 

77  Maelor :  Ho:  ap  f .  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Dehevharth  :  Gr:  ap  Nicolas  ap  ph:  ap  elidir  &c. 
Sir  gaer  :  lies  ap  gtm  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  gr:  &c. 

78  Dinmael :   Gr:  ap  liys  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c. 
is  dvlas  .   ').  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  Ihvyd  ap  Robyn  &c. 

V  fflj  bleddyn  v'n  =  g.  mad:  v'n/  g.  gvoiio  ap  Tiulyr  &c. 
Kynddel  ap  bleddyn  ap  if.  ap  Kyn:  vychan  &c. 

79  Pedigree  of  Henry  viii 

Maelor :  Edw:  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  ttn  ap  gr:  &c. 

80  „        Rob:  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  Jeva  go5  &c. 
Powys :  Mred:  ap  Adda  moel  ap  gtm  ap  ho:  &c. 

81  RiWyth  kellin  :  Hwva  ap  kynddelw  ap  kwiiws  ap  kellin  &c. 

„      Mortyn  :  Sanddef  hardd  ap  kariadoc  h.  ap  grwydyr  &c. 
Meilir  ap  Hwva  ap  llovFarch  g03  ap  'Jddic  &c. 

82  Bleddyn  ap  evreaue  ap  'Jthell  ap  dinhaiara  &c. 
Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  ap  kollwyn  &c. 

O.  /  edn :  =  meib  Kariadawe  ap  ^eva  &c. 

is  dvlas :  lies  ap  edryt  ap  )nethan  ap  'Jasseth  ap  karwet  &c. 

83  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  elisev  ap  Jer:  ap  O.  &c. 

84  Edeirnion  :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Res  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ddv  &c. 

85  f .  ap  D.  ap  giwn  llwyd  ap  Mad:  or  hen  dwr  &c. 

86  Maelor :  p.  ttn  ap  edn:  ap  gr:  ap  egn:  ap  ^er:  &e. 

87  „         Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Jankyn  ap  Mad:  &c. 

88  p.  D.  Evtyn  =  Meistyr  Rob:  /  gr:  a  John  &c. 
Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  ttn  ap  fer:  ap  gr:  &c. 

Yr  hob  :  p.  Morys  yong  ap  Jankyn  ap  ^er:  &c. 
Gr:  ap  ^euan  ap  Mred:  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

89  Kyn:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  gwyn  ap  Madoc  &c. 
Merchet  gronw  llwyd  ap  y  jjenwyn 

90  Tvdyr  ap  gr:  ap  Res  ap  edn:  ap  kyn:  &c. 

wyrion  kynon  o  Eos :  Kynddel  ap  bleddyn  ap  J.  &c. 

91  Hvw  gwyn  ap  Hn  ap  Res  ap  kwnws  &c. 
Lewys  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Hn  vychan  &c. 
Myredydd  llwyd  ap  J.  0.  ap  O.  ap  J.  &c. 

92  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  eigion  vy.chan  ap  J.  &c. 

93  Kyn:  vychan  ap  kyn:  ap  Madoc  ap  jfer:  &c. 

Swydd  ddinbych  ;  J.  ap  D.  hoi  and  ap  gr:  ap  D.  H.  &o. 

Res  ap  protber  Rotbert  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Jeiiau  ap  ho:  ap  D.  &c. 

Mon  :  M'  Hught  Morgan  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  &c.         [Bysliam  &c. 

94  Rob:   daltwn    was    maryt  to  yssabel  do3tyr   &  heir  lo  Henri 

96  Aldwr  brenin  llydaw  ap  kadvor  ap  Tvdwal  &c. 

Randir  Jthel  velyn  :  jv  tre  yn  ^al  /  Uys  y  kvlallt  gymbob}  &c. 

97  Gr:  ap  Res  ap  Mad:  Kloddaith  'd.^  Mad:  vychan  &c. 

J.  llwyd  ap  f.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  kyn:  ap  pleddyn  &c. 
A  description  of  the  arms  o/'Jthell  velyn,  (98)  yrarg:  Rys,  Elystan 
glodrydd,  Gr:  ap  Mred:  /  O.  gwynedd,  kriadoc,  O.  glyndwr,  Kynan 
ap  Jago,  (99)  ttn  ap  ^er:  Urwyndwn,  hydwgon  ap  bleddyn,  abadav 
IL.  egviQsXy\,Esgopty  Wj.  elwy,  Morgan  ap  Tryhayarn, yowas  ap  gronic, 
Hwva  ap  kyn:  /(1 00)  Elidir  ap  11.  says,  Hwva  ap  K.,  Res  go-i, 
ILowarch  ap  Bran,  Marchvdd,  O.  ap  bradwen,  Maeloc  Itrwm,  (101) 
Nevydd  hardd,  Kilmin  troedtv,  Egn:  ap  geraint,  W.  bwcMe,  Ririd 
flaidd,  Sandde  hardd,  (102)  ffylip  ap  Ivor,  Gr:  ap  ho:  /  y  pylstwns, 
Jer:  ap  Mred:  I  Tegvvared,  Ho:  varf  vehinoc,  (103)  Gr:  llwyd,  Mred: 
ap  Kynan,  Brochwel  Ysgithroc,  Un  ap  ynyr,  Kylielyn  ap  Rvn,  (104) 
Gwait/ivoed,  O.  brogyntvn,  Mayn  divyn,  Madoc  or  hendwr,  Rob: 
trystan  holand,  Syr   Hiiglit  Cowwy,   (105)  Kadrot  halch    vynydd. 


870  PENIARTH  MANTJSCRIPT  1S8, 

Moreiddic,  syr  D.  gam,  Koel  ap  Meric,  Elen  v}  Goel  G.  /  Ho: 
coetinor,  y  koetmoriaid  o  dv  gwrgenav,  Engn:  ap  kriadoc,  (106) 
Jankyn  vychan,  Gv:  hanmer,  Syi-  J.  Salysbre,  Syr  Raff  Egerton, 
syr  IVm:  pivl,  Evnydd,  (107)  Kyhelyn,  Bjowarch  owlbwicli,  Gr: 
Maelor,  yughavad  vj  O.  Gwynedd,  Kyn:  vychan,  Kyn:  evell,  Ynyr, 
(108)  )thell  vycliau,  Elidir,  Rikard  jarll  Olar,  Rys  ap  Rotbert,  Edn: 
vychan,  Madoc  llwyd,  Adda  ap  awr,  (109)  Syr  llondyl  breretnn. 
Mad:  ap  ^er:  /  0.  kyveilioc,  gr:  vychan,  Syr  Roger  pilystwn,  li)vnydd 
ap  gwenllian,  (110)  R.  ap  Marchan,  O.  gwynedd,  J.  argl:  ystracns, 
Kes  ap  tewdwr,  Gwythlach  vab  Jarll  Desmwnt,  Tho:  bwckle,  Koel 
godeboc,  (111)  Kariadoc  vreichfras,  Bawdlers,  yr  hen  J.  ap  Elys 
Evtyn,  Eign:  ap  gwalchmai,  (112)  llossyndal,  JPigod,  Hilfcwn . 
113  &  129  Ystrat  alvn:  J.  wyn  or  twr  ap  Eob:  &c. 
12-1  D.  anwyl  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  ap  edn:  vychan  &c. 

Harri  a  J.  up  kyn:  =  meib  Tanglwst  &c. 
123  Powys  :  Syr  Gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Kyveilioc  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  ap  ).  llwyd  &c. 
Morgaiit  ap  D,  vychan  ap  1.  ap  Mred:  &c. 
p.  D.  ap  ho:  =  kadwgon /  D.  /  Grtm  dew/  bedo  chwith  &c. 
p.  ystyvyn  ap  D.  ap  ph:  =  J.  Dwn  /  Lcwys/  howel  &c. 
126  Rhandiroedd  Heilin  ac  Jthel2i&\)  Evnydd  ap  Morien  Morgenav 
ap  elystan  ap  G waith voed  :  Rhandir  Jthel — Y  Maelor,  Gressffordd  a  thref 
alvn  /  yn  hegaingl,  Ueproc  vawr  a  lleproc  voclian  a  threfnant.     Rhandir 
Heilin — saith  drcf  a  thir  ^  vam  /  yn  nyffryn  klwydd,  11.  elhaern  a  Uygadoc 
ac  vchel  dref  a  garth  jaen  a  11.  ddervel,  achaer  gelioc,  a  saeth  marchoo. 
Maelor  :  W.  bwras  ap  J.  ap  egn:  ap  'Jolyn  &c. 
p.  J.  a  Rye:  trevor  meib  edw:  ap  D.  ap  edn:  gam  &c. 
129  Maelor :  Rob:  ap  Edw:  ap  Edw:  &c.  lad  g.  J.  wyn  or  twr 
135   Vsbyty ynS.ddinbych:  p.R.apMrod:  ap  tvdyr  ap  ho:  ap  kyn:  v'n 

137  Eglwysec — fal :  Edw:  ap  Res  ap  D.  ap  gim  ap  Jer.  &c. 

138  Rye:  ap  lio:  ap  gr:  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

£>.  Idwyd :  Syr  J.  ap  gr:  goj  ap  syr  J.  person  11.  gwyfen  Ac* 
S.  gaer  lleon  :  Merched  syr  Tho:  o  Button  o  an  v}  arg:  avdle  &c. 

139  llyn:  Rye:  trygarn  ap  kyn:  bleddyn  ap  ^euan  &c. 

Mon  :  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Hwlkyn  llwyd  ap  tvdyr  gO)  &c. 
Penllyn:  p.  gr:  ap  Mad:  ap  ^er:  ap  Mad:  ap  Ririt  vlaidd  &c. 
p.  Rob:  ap  Rye:  ap  syr  Roger  pulystoii  =  .T.  /  Mnd:  &c, 

141  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  &e. 

Tho:  belyng  vab  marget  anwyl  v3  D.  ap  ftn  v'n  &c. 
J.  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  Edw:  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  &c. 
Grono  sais  ap  egn:  ap  llowarch  ap  ttn  &c. 
Dd:  ap  pened  ap  D.  ap  ftn  ap  Jtn  goch  &c. 

1 42  Tegaingl :  Hvw  ap  elys  ap  Hary  ap  kyn:  &c. 

143  Tegeingl :  W.  Mostyn  [died  1576]  ap  Tho:  ap  Rye:   ap  ho: 

144  Perys  mostyn  jevang  ap  perys  M.  ap  Rye:  np  ho:  ap  J.  v'n  &c. 
Harri  pennant  ap  Edw:  P.  /  ap  Tho:  argl:  abad  dinasbasin  &c. 

145  p.  D.  ap  jthel  vychan  /  =  ^tbel  /  gr:  /  kyn:  &c. 

146  Tho:  ap  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ]fthel  vychan  ap  kyn:  &c. 

148   Tegaingl :  T.  ap  Harry  v'aap  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ^thel  y'n 
14^Q  ,,  Edw:  ap  hvw  ap  J.  ap  kyn:  ap  ][thel  v'n  &c. 

150  Devddwr:  D.  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  llwch  &c. 

151  Gr:  karon  ap  f.  ap  gr:  ap  ]f.  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Tho:  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  Res  ap  D.  ap  Ho:  &c. 

153  ^evan  Esgob  y  gwr  a  wnaeth  pont  IL.  gollen  ap  tin  &c. 

154  Ytraian:  J.  ap  ho:  ap  egn:  g05  ap  ]fer:  &c. 


llyfyr  John  trevor 


PEDIGREES.  87<1 

155  &  201  p.  Hvw  conwey  =  Reinallt/  Sioned  /  Lowri  &c. 
p.  D.  ap  Mred:  =  ftn  a  gyvodes  gidac  O.  glyndwr  &c. 
Gr:  iip  Mad:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

156  p.  Tvdyr  ap  giono  =  grono  /  Res  /  edn:  /  gim  &c. 

157  Madoc  or  Ilendwr  ap  ^er:  ap  gr:  aj)  Mad:  &c. 

Powys :  p.  syr  J.  bwreh  /  (2)  J.  lechdwn  /  (3)  syr  John  Lengam 
(4)  The:  mytton 

158  Ejfionydd :  Gr:  ap  Kob:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

159  Swydd  ddinbych :  Lewis  Uwyd  o  ddiserth  ap  Mred:  llwyJ  &c. 
163   Tegaingl :  Harri  ap  Tho:  ap  harri  ap  kyn:  ap  jfthel  v'n  &c. 

169  Evnydd  ap  Morien  ap  Morgenav  ap  elystan  &c. 
Nevydd  hardd  ap  kariadoc  ap  gwrydyr  &c. 
Maeloc  kwm  ap  kwng  dv  ap  killin  &c. 
Kilinin  troettv  ap  kadrod  ap  gwriad  &c. 

0.  ap  bradwen  ap  )duerth  ap  edryd  &c. 
Marchweithien  ap  tangwel  ap  lludd  &c. 

170  Elystan  glodrydd  'Jarll  henffordd  ap  kvhelyn  &c. 
Kriadoc  ap  'Jestin  ap  gwrgant  ap  'Jthel  &c. 

D.  chwitmor  oedd  vab  i  syr  D.  person  kilken  &c. 

Tegaingl : 

171  Elys  wyn  np  if.  ap  )thell  ap  D.  ap  'Jthell  v'n  &c. 
181  J.  gr:  vab  perys  gr:  ap  D.  ap  jfthel  vychan  &c. 

184  Gwraic  Perys  holaud  =  Katrin  Wen  V3  Rye:  ajj  "j.  ap  D.  &c. 

i'wy  bi/nac  a  vi/no  gweled  lack  leuan  ap  D.  ap  Ithel  vychan  darlleyd 
lack  Elijs  wyn  ap  I.  ap  Ithel  ap  1).  ap  Ithel  vychan  o  Jlaen  hyn  yn 
y  llyfyr  hwn 

190  kyn:  ap  Rye:  ap  Lewys  ap  Mad:  ap  ftn  vychan  &c. 

191  Perys  ap  D.  ap  Jthel  ap  Cwna  ap  "Jthel  &c. 
Edw:  Conwey  ap  harre  conwey  ap  Jamys  C.  &c. 

192  &  145  Hvvv  ap  Tho:  ap  Mwyndec  ap  pel  ap  kyn:  &c. 
194  J.  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  'Jthel  vychan  &e. 

201  Swydd  ddinbych,  p.  trystan  holaud  =  Robin  /  dikwn  &c. 

202  „  „  p.  ffowke  llwyd  apperysllwyd  ap  hught  11.  &e. 

204  Mon :  p.  D.  ap  kyn:  ap  hwlkyn  =  D.  /gr:  /  Tvdyr  &c. 

„     Tho:  ap  R.  ap  W.  ap  D.  ap  gim  ap  D.  &c. 

205  „     p.  Ho:  y  varf  ap  fin :  =  Res  /  gr:  /  f  er  &c. 

„     p.  Tho:  gr:  o  baris  ap  syr  W.  =  Pirs/ J.  /  pirys  &c. 

206  „     Rob:  Bwckle  ap  Rol:  ap  W.  bwckle  &c. 
IL.  vivroc  :  Rye:  ap  Morys  ap  Res  ap  ho:  &c. 

207  „  Mred:  ap  gr:  ap  grono  ap  D.  &c. 

208  Mon—trefbardd:  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

„      Dvwmares :  Rye:  ap  D.  ap  Robert  &c. 

Rossvr  :  Rye:  ap  D.  ap  hugh  ap  Morgan  &c. 

209  „      pen  mynydd:  O.  ap  Rye:  Owain  ap  tvdyr  vychan  &c. 
Sir  gaer:  W.  ap  Rob:  ap  gwilim  ap  Mred;  &c. 

210  IL.  gylynin:  Rye:  ap  J.  ap  ho:  ap  f evan  &c. 

.,  W.  ap  W.  ap  tho:  ap  Rye:  ap  W.  &c. 

„  p.  ho:  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  =  Tho:  /  Rys  /  J.  &c. 

211  Hedd  ap  molvnoc  ap  greddyf  ap  tymyr  &c. 
^er:  voel  or  mynydd  ap  Mad:  ap  vrien  &c. 
Maelor :  Raff  brochdwn  ap  Morgan  brochdwn  &c. 

214  Gwehelylh  y  llechivedd  vcha  ;  "Jarddvr  ap  trehaiarn  &e. 
Cr.  gwerthrynion  :  kadwallon  ap  Mad:  ap  f  er:  &c. 

G.  Dyved:  Edn:  ap  Morien  ap  kadgwr  ap  kadvor  &c. 
llwyth  killin  ymortvn  :  Meillir  ap  hwfaf  ap  llowarch  &c. 

215  //.  gollwyn:  p.  koUvvyn  ap  Tangno  =  Mred:  /Eginir  /  &c. 
//.  penllyn :  Ririd  flaidd  ap  gwrgenev  ap  gollwyn 

II,  arall  o  benllyn  :  Rys  ap  Edryd  ap  Jnethan  &c. 


872  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   138. 

216  II.  mortvn  .  Sanddef  hardd  ap  karadoc  hardd  &c. 

Powys  wenhivymvyn :  p,  Gr.  ap  G.  ap  O.  K.  =  0.  /  iin  /  J.  &c. 

217  Kvnedda  ap  henwyn  ap  kyngen  ap  a'sser  &c. 
Gr:  ap  ^vor  yp  mevi'ic  vychan  &c. 

Res  ap  Mfvrchan  ap  kyn:  ap  kynddelw  &c. 
p.  Edn.  vychan  o  verch  llowarcli  ap  bran  &c. 

218  Maelor:  p.  D.  ap  Mad:  llwyd  ap  gr:  =  Mad:  /  jfankyn  v'n  &c. 

,,         p.  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  =  Edw:  /  D.  &c. 

219  Yr  hob  :  Mad:  ap  "j.  ap  Madoc  ddv  &c. 

221  Maelor :  Edw:  ap  Madoc  ap  deio  ap  Mad:  llwyd  &c. 

224  D.  Uwyd  :  Gvven  vj  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  f .  v'n  =  g.  J.  ap  Mred. 

220  „         Rob:  ap  ho:  ap  Tho:  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  heilyn  vrych  &c. 

227  ,,        J.  ap  gr:  ap  ^.  wyn  ap  egn:  &c. 

228  Roger  ap  itn  ap  J.  wyn  ap  egn:  ap  J.  &c. 
p.  Edw:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  ddv  &c. 

-S.  ddinbych :  Tona  tec  ap  bleddyn  ap  kyn:  &c. 
230  „  g.  D.  llwyd  ap  penwyn  =  Nest  V3  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 

chwitne :  Uy  Rob:  o  chwitne  ap  estans  ap  syr  Rob:  &c. 

232  Mon :  Tudyr  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  Rys  &c. 
Man :  Ho:  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  wyddel  &c. 

233  6\  ddinbych:  Gr:  ap  Jevagoch  ap  'j.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

233  &  273      ,,         Mechyll  Mochwys  ap  y  gwyn  gohoiw  &c. 

234  Kynllailh  :  p.  Mad:  ap  Jer;  goch  ap  J.  voel  &c. 

235  Edairnion  a  Dinmael :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  if.  &c. 

236  Trevor  :  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  ap  adda  ap  ho:  &c. 

237  Maylor :  J.  ap  egn:  ap  Jolyn  ap  j[er:  &c. 

ftn  ap  D.  ap  hwysgyn  ap  Rob:  &c. 

238  Mon  :  p.  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  ap  ho:  ap  ]fer:  &c. 

240  IL.  Sain  Jar:  J.  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  Robyn  <S;c. 

242  Kawlyn  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  ap  Rob:  &c. 

243  A  brief  chronicle  from  1Jf6§  to  1551:  0.  K.  pan  losges  jfasbar 
^arll  penvro  ddinbych  1468  A  gwyl  y  saint  ne.'isa  at  hyny  y  llosges 
argl:  herbert  Naiikonwy  .  .  .  y  24  o  orffenaf  1469  y  kolles  W.  argl: 
herbcrt  y  maes  y  manbri  Ac  y  lias  arg:  herbert  av  ddav  frodei', 
Thomas  a  Syr  Rys,  a  Rys  ap  D.  llwyd  a  W.  ap  Morys  o  Bowys  .  .  , 
o.  k.  pan  vv  Maes  y  gwyddyl  yn  lie  a  elwir  stoke  1487  .  .  .  Maes  y 
blak  hieth  1490  ....  pan  dorret  pen  syr  gr:  Res  1532,  .  .  .  pan 
fvfarwykardin.ll  1531  .  .  .  pan  gyfeddwyd  ir  hrenin  harri  y  ffyrst 
ifrwt  ar  ddecTod  0  bob  eglwysyn  lloeger  1534  .  .  .  pan  dynwyd  delwe 
o  bob  eglwys  yii  lloegyr  1548  .  ,  .  ends  :  O.K.  pan  dorred  pen  y 
dywedic  due  o  .Somyrsed  1551  y  22  o  fis  lonor  oedran  Edw:  y 
chweched  vj. 

250  p.  O.  gwynedd  =  D.  /  Rodri  a  chadwallon  abad  Enlli  &c. 
p.  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  ap  kyn:  =  Mad:  /  Einion  &c. 

251  p.  Kynvyn  =  Bleddyn  /  Riwallon  /  ewerydd 

p.  Ririt  ap  bleddyn  =  Mad:  ac^thel  tad  ho:  arg.  Ros  a  Ryvonioc 
Merched  ]f .  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  grono  =  Mali  /  gwevrvyl  &c. 

252  Peticrvw  Mortmer  :  Huw  M.  a  ddoeth  gida  W.  bastart. 
250  Hn  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  yychau  &c. 

Rys  ap  W.  ap  Hn  ap  "j.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  v'n  &c. 
Hn  ap  gr:  ap  gtm  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

p.  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  ]f.  ap  Mred;  =  0.  /  Morys  /  J.  /  gr:  &c. 
257  p.  R.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  getliin  ap  gr:  vychan  =  J.  /  Rob:  &c. 
Reinallt  ap  Mevric  ap  Rys  ap  ho:  Coetmor  &c. 
Rob:  a  Gr:  loia  meib  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  D.  go}  &e. 
Kyn:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  ap  gim  &c. 
J.  llwyd  ap  W.  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  glm  &c. 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  138.  S73 

258  Bich:  ap  Eye:  ap  O.  ap  tvdyr  vychan  &c. 

O.  np  gr:  ap  Mad:  vychan  vab  katrin  v}  Rob:  lloyd  &C. 
Rys  ap  ttn  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  Hn  ap  ho:  y  pedole  &c. 

259  W.  ap  gr:  ap  Robynap  gr:  ap  gtm  ap  heilin  &c. 

261  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Elise  ap  Jei-.  ap  O.  brogyntvn  &c. 
ILowarch  holbwrch  a  fv  yn  amser  gr:  ap  fin 

Y.  Alvn :  D.  Uwyd  ap  edw:  ap  D.  ap  Res  &c. 

262  „  Merched  Edw:  Ihvyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  bleddyn  Ac, 

263  „  J.  ap  J.  Wyn  ap  gr:  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

266  Penllyn:  Kydwaladyr  ap  Ryddj  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

267  &  317  Efionydd:  Tho:  ap  Res  ap  ho:  ap  Res  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 

270  Efionydd;  p.  J.  ap  Mred;  ap  ^.  =  Morys  /  0.  /gr:  /f.  &c. 

271  Hiraethoc:  R.  ap  fin  ap  Tho:  ap  hob  y  dili  &c. 

p.  Edn:  vychan  =  gr:  /  grono  /  gwladvs  &c. 

273  Dehevbarth:  Res  ap  D.  ap  thomas  ap  D.  &c. 
Maelor  S. — J.  ap  gr:  ap  edn:  ap  ho:  ap  edn:  &c. 
p.  Jankyn  decka  =  J.  wyn  /  Res  /  gr:  &c. 

Hn  ap  tvdyr  ap  gim  ap  egn:  ap  gim  &c. 

274  Tegaingl:  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  harre  ap  Kyn:  ap  Jthel  vychan  &c. 
276  Mon :  J.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gtm  ap  D.  ap  ^.  &c. 

278   Tegaingl:  Gr:  ap  Roger  ap  D,  ap  R.  ap  kyn:  &c. 

280  &  295  Efionydd:  Rob:  wyn  [d.  1565]  ap  f.  ap  J.  ap  Mred: 

288  Syr  Rys  ap  Tho:  ap  gr:  ap  Nicolas  &c. 

289  Tegaingl :  W.  ap  Tho:  vychan  ap  Tho:  gr:  &c. 

290  JL.  dechwyn :  VVmffre  ap  0.  ap  Jankyn  ap  R.  ap  tvdyr  &c. 

291  Maelor :  Rob:  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  '].  go}  &c. 

vii  maib  Ho:  koetmor  =  R. /gr: /einion/ ^.  /  D.  /  Mred:  &c. 

292  D.  goch  ap  ho:  ap  fin:  ap  gr:  ap  ]fer:  vychan  &c. 

293  Kydweli :  Gr:  dwn  ap  O.  dwn  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  dwu  &c. 

294  IL.  deekwyn :  Wmffre  ap  D.  ap  Tho:  ap  D.  ap  'j.  ap  egn:  &c. 

296  Yfionydd :  O.  ap  J.  O.  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  ^.  &c. 

297  Aleirionydd :  Elise  ap  W.  llwyd  ap  Morys  ap  T.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

298  Pedigrees  of  Anna,  Cleophas,  Mary,  Joseph  &c. 

301  Maelor  :  Ho:  ap  fin  ap  ho:  ap  jfer:  ddv  a  ]fer:  &c. 

3Ion :  Ho:  ap  kwnws  ap  Ho:  ap  ]fer:  ddv  &c. 

„      Tvdyr  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  Res  ap  tvdyr  &c. 

Edeirnion  :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  f.  ap  egn:  ap  gr:  ap  fin  &c. 
304  S.  ddinbych  :  W.  llwyd  ap  f .  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &e. 
306  Hvw  Nannav  ap  gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  mevric  &c. 

309  S.  ddinbych:   Syr   J.   salysburi  siambyrlaen   gwynedd   ap   syr 

Rogor  Salysburi  &c. 

310  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Edward  iii 
317  p.  gr:  llwyd  ap  gwyn  ap  grono  ap  gim  &c. 

319   Vrhob:  J.  trevor  ap  Rob:  ap  J;  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  &c. 

323  Maelor  S.—D.  owrtyu  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  &c. 

324  D.  Mivyd:  R.  ap  D.  ap  fin  ap  Tho:  ap  D.  gam  &c. 

p.  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  =  Rydd3  /  gr:  /  ho:  &c, 

325  &  326  J.  ap  fin  ap  D.  g03  ap  gr:  ap  fin  ap  adda  &c. 
Rys  ap  fin  ap  tho:  ap  hob  y  dili  ap  tvdyr  &c. 

Syr  Edw:  kroft  ap  Syr  Rye:  krofEt  ap  W.  kc. 

326  Eglwyseg :  p.  f  evaf  ap  Hn  ap  kyn:  evell  =  gr:  /  Mad:  voel  &c, 
Gwervyl  goj  v)  gynan  ap  0.  gwynedd  &e. 

327  Hob:  p.  Morys  ywng  ap  laukyu  ap  morgan  &c. 

p.  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  ynyr  =  M'^  Lewys  person  gresfEordd  &c. 

328  p.  gr:  ap  5f.  ap  Mred:  =  kristion/a  nest  &c. 

p.  Mad:  voel  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  ynyr  =  Tvdyr  &c. 
Maelor  G.— Rob:  a  Tho:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  sutton  &c. 

y  S8430,  ^  ° 


874  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  138. 

329  iii  m5  Ha  ap  ^er:  Drwyndwn  =  gwladvs  ddv/  gwenllian  las!  &c.. 
Terogoc  :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  "^^v:  ap  D.  \v_vn  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

330  Penllyn :  p.  Mad:  ap  Ririt  flaidd  =  ^er:  /  gwrgenav  &c. 

331  Yheryw:  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  f.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap   Ph:  &c. 

333  p.  Edw:  ap  'Jtliel  ap  ^er:  ap  grono  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 

334  Tegaingl:  J.  ap  Tho:  ap  bo:  ap  ^.  ap  )thel  &e. 

335  Lewys  ap  Mad:  ap  Hu  vychan  ap  Hn  &c. 

336  Mon—Bodwigon :  p.  Ho:  ap  Ha  ap  ythel  =  J. /W.  Ac. 

337  „       Talybolion :  J.  ap  O.  ap  mevric  ap  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  &e. 
„  ,,  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  lio:  ap  Hn  &c. 

338  JL.  vair  ynghowrmuy  :  Rob:  ap  jf-  ajj  ho:  ap  ^.  ap  gira  &c. 
haer  degoc :  J.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

vchel  dref:  Rys  ap  ho:  ap  Rob:  ap  Hn  ap  tvdyr  &c. 

339  Rob:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  tvdyr  ap  egn:  vychan  &c. 
Owain  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Mred:  llwyd  ap  Res  &c. 
Tho:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  edn:  ap  gr:  &c. 

Res  ap  tvdyr  ap  R.  ap  mad:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  dew 
p.  Mad:  ap  gtni  ap  f .  =  Lewys  /  J.  /  a  Res  &c. 
Evtvn  Owain  a  elwir  gr:  ap  hugh  ap  O.  ap  Jen  &c. 

340  Edmwnd  ap  Res  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 
Hari  ap  gwilim  ap  Hn  goch  ap  gr:  ap  J.  &c. 

Karwyd  vynydd:  p.  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  Hn  =  /  Hn  /  syr  Robert  &c. 

341  „  „  p.  W.  ap  R.  ap  Hn  =  O.  /  J.  /  Lewys  &c. 
Tal  y  llyn :  Tho:  vychan  ap  W.  ap  grono  ap  Hn  &c. 

342  Morgan  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  ap  ho:  ap  kadwgon  &c. 
Mred:  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  Res  ap  O.  vychan  &c. 
Rys  wyn  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  vychan  &c, 
Gr:  ap  D.  tavarn  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Hn  &c. 

5f.  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  goj  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 
Maelor :  Robyn  ap  Morgan  ap  Jer:  vychan  ap  Jer:  &c. 

343  Twr  Kelyn  :  p.  Rob:  ap  Ha  ap  tvdyr  =  Ho:  /  R.  gethin  /  syr  W. 

344  ILys  dvlas  ymon :  Tho:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  gtm  &c, 
Tal  y  bolion :  Rys  ap  glm  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

347  D.  ap  R.  ap  glm  ap  J.  ap  if.  ap  ho:  &c. 
Roland  voel  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  J.  moel  hen  &c. 

348  Pedeir  mil  chweohant  byd  ormodd  yu  bliuo     .... 

oed  Adda  ....  dyro  vwy  oed  i  riain  .  Anon 

Maelor:  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  R.  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  llwyd  &c. 

349  p.  Gr:    ap   ho:   ap   gr:   ap  edn:  vychan  ap   Syr  R.  hen  &c. 
p.  Rye:  vernon,  (2)  syr  J.  Stanley,  (3)  syr  J.  gr:  /  (4)  Wilbi 

350  JL.  ddoged :  p.  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  gronw  =  D.  /  hvw  /  J.  &c. 
IL'n  ap  W.  ap  R.  ap  kwnws  ap  egn:  &c. 

351  D.  klwyd:  p.  ac  wyron  J.  thelwal  hen  =  J).  &c.     [=  Ririt  &c. 
353  p.  yrystoc  yn  swydd  gowrvs  :  p.  Rob:  ap  Ririt  ap  J.  o  fvUtvn 
355   Y  Ririt  flaidd  a  fv  vchel  argl:  ar  bvm  plwy  penllyn  /  a  llyn  / 

ac  efionydd  /  a  ffenant  mylangell  /  ar  glyn  ymhowys  /  ar 
vndref  ar  ddec  yn  swydd  y  mwythic 

357  ]L.  wrin  ynghefelioc :  Tho:  ap  J.  ap  To:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  &c. 

358  IL.  idlos  ymhowys :  Syr  J.  ap  D.  ap  Res  ap  W.  ap  R.  g03  &e. 
JL.  gvric :  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  ddv  ap  dwn  ap  J.  ap  Ph.  &c. 

p.  Hn  ap  7.  ap  ffylip  =  Res  /  D.  /  }ankyn  &c. 
Lewys  ap  J.  ap  Rychart  ap  D.  ]fer:  ap  meilir  &c. 
D.  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  Res  ddv  &c. 

360  Table  of  the  des-cendants  of  Rodri  mawr 

361  Edw:  ap  Roger  ap  J.  ap  Elys  ap  J.  ap  Jamys  &c. 

364  JLwydiart  ymhowys  :  p.  ho:  v'n  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Janykyn 
366  JL,  badarnfawr :  Jankyn  ap  W.  ap  Jankyu  ap  R.  &c. 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   138,  875 

366  JLanihangel  tredyrevr — y  plas  yngwernan  :    p,    D.    Ilwyd 

ap  gr:  &C.      Also  page  480  infra 

367  p.  Res  ap  D.  ap  To:  =  Ho:  vychan  /  D.  /  Gr:  &c. 
p.  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  tho:  =  Gr:  /  J.  /  Rydderch  &c. 
John  Brochivn  ap  Rondyl  brochdwn  ap  ifer:  go}  &c. 

368  IL.  drillo,  ydeirnion  :  T.  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  ap  ^er:  ap  y  tec  fadoc 

369  p.  -f.  ap  Tho:  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  =  Elissa  /  elvsabeth  &c. 

370  XIII  tlws  Y.  5.— Dyriiwyn  gleddef  Rydd}  hael  &c. 

371  IL.  vrfvl — tref  lyssyn :  Hvw  ap  bedo  gwyn  ap  ftn  &c. 

H.  gadvan,  tref  y  blowty :  p.  Gr:  ap  Res  ap  ^.  v'n  =  D.  /  Ris't 

372  iii  maib  efa  v)  D.  ap  trahayarn  ap  gr:  ap  eliwys  ap  O.  kyfeilioc 
p.  edn:  ap  gr:  ap  tta  v'li  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  ap  gwen  &c. 

373  Pen  egoes  ynghefeilioc  :  Gr:  ap  Morys  ap  D.  blaene  &c. 

374  IL.  tcynnoc — k.  iskoed,  yrwystU :  Morys  ap  gr:  ap  tvdyr  &c. 

375  Eys  ap  Res  ap  Mred:  ap  if.  vychan  &c. 

376  Dar  Owain  ynghefeilioc  ;  Lewys  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  &c. 

377  „  „  D.  goch  ap  itn  ap  mevric  &c. 
379  Machynllaith       „              J.  ap  ttn  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &e. 
381  vwch  aeron  ddv  ynehevbarth :  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  Itn  &c. 

Dar  owain :  O.  ap  D.  ap  Res  ap  ho:  goch  &c. 

383  IL.  vrfvl  ynghaer  Union  .  .  plas  ynehev  .  .  y  Nevadd  wen 

ynghoed  Haloc  :  p.  Olifer  ap  T.  =  T.  /  Morys  /  Rob:  /  Seioa 

384  Machynllaith  :  Ho:  goch  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &c. 
Dar  owain  :  Edn:  ap  gr:  ap  ho  :  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

385  IL.  bryn  mair  ynghyfelioc :  Res  ap  J.  ap  D.  Ihvyd  ap  Mred:  &c. 

386  ,,  ymlaen  hen  nant  tivym  :  if.  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  sign:  &c. 

387  „  y>i  Ref    „       „         „         D.  ap]f.apD.  gethin&c. 
IL.  idlos  yn  vwch  hoed  yrwystli  y  ty  yn  y  tyfyn  dv  yn  aher  y 

bradnant :  Morys  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  Jankyn 

389  p.  Morys  ap  D.  ap  Hn  =  Gr:  /  margred  /  gole  &c. 

390  IL.Jiangel  ym  bennant :  Rydd:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  Hn 

Pen  egoes — y  ty  yn  esgyr  fochart :  Morys  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  &c. 

392  „         Morys  ap  Hn  ap  ^.  ap  D.  or  wen  allt  &c. 

393  IL'n  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  ^.  goch  ap  gr:  &c. 

394  Mallwyd  ymowddwy :  p.  Morys  ap  llowdden  ap  Res  =  Syr 

J.  /  Ho:  wyn  <fec. 

395  IL.  idlos :  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  Hn  gymro  &c. 

396  IL.  wynnoc :  D.  gethin  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  &c. 

397  karno,  k.  is  hoedyrwystli :  p.  Ho:  ap  ^.  =  D.  llwyd  /  ^.  /  tho:  &c. 
IL.  B.  mair:  p.  Tho:  ap  D.  dec  =  Lewys  /  Res  /  J.  /  W.  &c. 

;-i99  Beriw  ynghydewain,  tref  kilhychwyn  :  p.  Grifiri  ap  Hu  &c. 

400  Nan  mel,  h.  gwerthrynion  :  p.  J.  ap  ph:  ap  Mred:  —  Lewys  &c. 

401  IL.  wynnoc :  p.  Hn  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  —  D.  j  j.  /  katrin  &c. 

402  Viuch  aeron  ddv :  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ap  J.  v'n  &c. 
iL.  B.  Mair  :  Morys  ap  0.  ap  Hn  ap  O.  ap  gr:  &c. 

403  IL.  gvric:  Rys  ap  adda  ap  ho:  ap  adda  ddv  ap  gr:  Ac. 

405  IL.  idlos — tref  drefiyn  :  D.  ap  Morgan  ap  Hn  ap  ho:  &c. 
harno :  Margred  v3  D.  ap  hari  ap  Mred:  ap  Res  &c. 

406  „        Hn  ap  Tudyr  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  griffri  &c. 

407  IL.  gvric :  Hn  ap  Morys  ap  R.  ap  adda  ap  ho:  &c. 

408  IL.  leynnoc :  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  gethin  ap  gr:  g03  &c. 

411  IL.  idlos:  O.  ap  Hn  ap  O.  ap  J),  ap  griffri  &c. 

412  Pen  egoes,  Ros  y  garreg  :  p.  R.  wyn  ap  ho:  ap  R.  =  J.  llwyd  &c. 
415  Mallwyd— nan  mynach  :  p.  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  =  %  llwyd  / 

417  Morys  ap  Res  ap  Mad:  vychan  ap  Res  ap  ho:  &c.     [J,  wyn  &c. 

418  Dolgelle—plas  penmaen :  p.  Risiart  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

00  3 


876  PBNUETH  MANUSCRIPT  138. 

419  O.  /  D.  /  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  -f.  getWn  &c. 

420  Ddisserlh  yn  elfel  v.  mynydd :  p.  T.  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  &c, 

421  Ddiserth — tref  y  hoed:  J.  ap  Morys  ap  J.  chwith  &c. 

JL.  V'el  hefyn  y  llys  ymelicnydd :  IPylip  ap  ho:  ap  "].  goch  &c. 

422  Setios  yn  elfel — pentre  y  nant :  p.  Eisslart  ap  ho:  ap  mevric  &c. 

423  Penkraic  [  =  Old  Radnor],  tref  yr  hob  :  p.  D.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &e. 

„        y  plas  mawr  yn  Ref  y  delyn  :  Tho:  Lewis  ap  hvw  &e. 

424  IL.  voir  llathyfnwy,  sir  fetes  hyfaidd:  p.  ^.  lewys  ap  lankyn 

425  y  plas  mawr  yn  Baili  brith — Merthyr  kynnoc  :  p.  D.  ap  gtm 

ap  tho:  hir  =  Tho:  /  Ho:  /  gwallter  /  R.  &c. 
427  JL.  dyfaelog — y  plas  yn  y  bevtyn :  p,  Tho:  apD.  ap  tho:  hir  &c. 

430  Brycheinioc :  J,  ap  glm  vychan  ap  J.  ap  gim  &c. 

431  „  Jankyn  Havart  ap  tho:  ap  gim  &e. 

432  „  IL'n  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  gam  ap  Bn  &c. 

433  „  Tho:  ap  Jankyn  ap  Mad:  ap  Risiart  &c. 

434  „  Haber  hodni  :  Edw:  ap  gim  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  &c. 

435  „  John  Walbi  ap  Jankyn  walbi  &c. 

436  „  Hobkyn  awbre  ap  Jankyn  ap  Morgan  A.  &c. 
„  Glyn  ivysc  :  J.  ap  Roger  ap  J.  ap  J.  &c. 

437  „  Ho:  ap  Morgan  or  ffvresl  ap  Res  &c. 
„  Gim:  ap  Morgan  ap  Res  ap  ho:  &c. 

438  „  Ho:  ap  gim  ap  ho:  ap  gim  &c. 

440  „  Tho:  ap  Morgan  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

•441  „  Tho:  ap  gwallter  Hafart  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

442  „  Mad:  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  trahayarn  &c. 
„  J.  ap  ho:  ap  gim  ap  to:  ap  gr:  &c. 

443  „  J.  ap  gim  ap  D.  ap  gim  vychan  &c. 

„  Tho:  ap  Hari  ap  Risiart  ap  J.  ap  Henri  &c. 

444  Res  ap  Hari  ap  J.  ap  Henri  ap  gerallt  &c. 
Rob;  Winsdwn  ap  Watkyn  winsdwn  ap  tho:  <fcc. 
Tho:  ap  Rob;  ap  Ho:  ap  }er:  ap  grono  &c. 
JLwyth  y  deaniad :  J.  ap  fBylip  ap  J.  ap  ffylip  &c. 
Syr  Walter  herbart  ap  arg  W.  Herbart  &c. 

445  Tho:  ap  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  gwilim  ap  ho:  &c. 
D.  ap  ho;  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

IL.  frynach — glan  bryn  hvan  :  p.  J.  ap  J.  ap  Roger  &c. 

448  IL.fihangel  nant  bra?i :  p.  Risiart  ap  Rye;  ap  Res  &c. 

449  „  „  p.  gim  ap  Ho;  ap  Morgan  &c. 

450  plwy  Mair  a  chynnyd  yn  aber  ysgyr :  T.  ap  D.  ap  J.  llwyd 

451  Y  Rossgeriaid  ymorganwc :  syr  Roger  ap  Roger  hen  &c. 

452  V  Mathiaid  ymorganwc :  D.  ap  Mathew  np  J.  &c. 
Morgamec :  J.  ap  Res  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

„  ].  gethin  ap  "j.  leission  ap  Res  &c. 

swydd  gaer  fyrddin ;  Ha  t'wvthvs  ap  fin  ddv  ap  0.  &c. 
grono  goch  ap  grono  ap  meilir  ap  gwrgenav  &c. 
(Syr  J.  dwn  ap  gr:  dwn  ap  Mred:  dwn  Jtydiceli  ap  henri  dwn 
ap  kadwgau  vawr  .  .  .  ap  Jestin  ap  gwrgan. 

453  JL.  avan — k.  krevddyn  .  Morys  vychan  ap  J.  ap  Hn  &c. 

464  JL.  V'el  yngheiri,  y  plas  ynghefyn  yperen  :  p.  J.  ap  R.  ap  J.  &c. 

456  „  k.  y  krevddrjn,  y  ty  yn  y  park  :  D.  ap  Morgan  ap  iin  &c. 

457  JL.  badarn  fawr  y  plas  ynghefyn  vwch :  p.  J.  ap  J.  go5 

459  p.  Morys  ap  Jankyn  ap  J.  goch  =  0.  /Rydd}  /  Rissiart  &c. 

460  JL.  ddinan — iskoed  yrwystli  :  p.  Mred:  ap  Ho:  ap  Morys  &c. 

461  Mochdre  yngheiri  :  p.  Morgan  ap  ^.  llwyd  &c.  .  1551. 

462  JL.  vihangel  gelynrod,  k.  y  krevddyn — golevlennydd ;  Risiart 

(boru  1551)  ap  Res  Wyn  ap  J.  ap  Rgs  &c, 


SENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT   138.  877 

464  IL.  gwnws  kwm  ijstwyth,  k,  Myfenydd :  p.  J.llwyd  apRes  &c. 

465  Ej.  anno  ymylienydd :  Res  ap  D.  goch  ap  Res  ap  D.  &c. 

467  Nan  m el  ync/werrynion — y  ty  ymyl  llicliart :    p.   Howel  ap 

]feutin  =  R.  dew  &c. 
408  2C.  bister  ymylemjdd—llin  went:  ResapMreJ:  ap  D.  v'n  &c. 

469  Mochdre  yngheiri :  J.  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  goch  &c. 

470  IL.fihangel  yngheiri  :  p.  ^.  ap  Mrod:  ap  D.  ap  ttn  ap  gr:  &c. 

471  JL.  wynnoc :  p.  Ho:  ap  ftn  ap  D.  vyohan  ap  D.  &c. 

472  JL.  dysvl  yngJiedewain — y  plas  yn  ymyl  y  llidiard — maes 
y  wern  Rivng  TL.  dyssvl  a  IL.  Rewie :  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  ").  &c. 

473  IL.  fihangel  yngheiri  :  D.  ap  Morys  ap  Mad:  ap  eign:  &c. 

474  IL.  drefeglwys — k.  vwch  hoed  ynoystli  :  p.  Hvw  ap  ]f .  &c. 

475  IL.  Jeuan  yn  Refesgoh — syr  mwithic:  Lewys  gwyn  kwnystabyl 
tref  esgob  ap  laukyn  ap  Hn  &c.  [eign:  says 

Arfav  koel  kydeboc,  kariadoc  freichfras,  JIainyrch  ap  hoiw, 
Y  gole  V3  W.  ap  'Jankyn  ap  tta  ap  ").  &c. 

477  Brycheinioc :  Syr  D.  gam  ap  Hn  ap  ho:  v'n  ap  eign  says  &c. 

478  Descendants  of  Edw:  iv,  and  of  Jolin  of  Gaunt 

479  Paen  twrberfil  arg:  y  koety  &c. 

481  Y gwestvd  ynghydewen — 2&.  llochaiarn  :  D.  ap  tvdyr  &c. 

482  Tho:  ap  Res  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

483  IL.  fwllyn  :  p.  ho:   vychan  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  &c. 

484  ).  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

485  IL.  bryn  Mair  :  p.  Gtm  ap  ttn  a,p  Gr:  =  R.  /ttn/ J.  goch  &c. 

486  Dolgelle :  p.  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  jfthel  bacli  =  Ho:  /  Gr:  wyn  &c. 

i&.  drillo:  p.  ac  wyron  Tho:  ap  J.   ap  D.  ap  ^er:  =  J.  /Ho:  &c. 

489  „         Tho:  llwyd  ap  ffylip  ap  tho:  &c. 

490  IL.  wrin :  Tho:  ap  J.  ap  Tho :  ap  tin  &c. 

491  Maelor :  Rondyl  ap  Rondyl  brochtyn  ap  Jer:  goch  &c. 
Tho:  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Res  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

J.  ap  Madoc  ap  Res  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad  <fcc. 

Edn:  ap  Edn:  ap  ho:  ap  kyn:  ap  gr:  ap  grono  &c. 

492  p.  Jankyn  ap  ttn  ap  ho:  :=  J.  gwvn  /  ttn  llwyd  &c, 

493  p.  0.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  llwyd  =  fin  /'tho:  &c. 

494  IL.  hadarn  favor  yn  ehevbarth :  Jankyn  ap  W.  ap  Jankyn  &c. 
p.  Gtm  ap  Tho:  vychan  ap  tho:  =  Harri  /  fin  /  W.  vychan  &c. 

495  Hen  gymraec  a  chymraec  newydd,  being  a  Vocabulary  of  old 
words  with  their  modern  meanings  .  A  large  percentage  of  the  words 
in  this  list  are  identical  with  those  *asterisked  in  Dr.  John  Daviea's 
Dictionarium  Duplex  .  1632.  There  are  also  a  good  many  words 
not  in  Dr.  Davies's  Dictionary,  and  not  a  few  where  the  meanings 
given  in  the  MS.  are  different. 

503  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  llwyd 

501  Syr  Risiart  ap  ttn  ap  D.  ap  fin  ap  gr:  &c. 

506  Darowain  :  p.  Ho:  ap  morys  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  J.  bok 

507  Mcrionydd — k.  Talybont :  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  fin  &c. 
p.  Res  ap  'j.  ap  D.  ap  Ha  &c. 

509  Maelor  :  Ho:  ap  grono:  ap  f.  ap  grono  ap  hwfa 

510  hegidfa  :  Syr  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Merched  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  gwenwys 

511  p.  Ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  llwyd  ap  ynyr  &c. 

513  p.  Res  ap  J.  ap  eign:  ap  ho:  fain  &c. 

p.  J.  goch  ap  kadwgan  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 

p.  J.  vychan  ap  J.  ap  kadwgan  ap  Ho:  v'n  &c. 

p.  Res  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gwyn  =  gtm  goch  /  Morgan  go}  &c. 

514  &  548  kaslell  gwist  yn  ehevbarth  :  Syr  J.  wgon  o  Wilstwn'&c. 

515  (Harlech  a  dinbech  bob  dor  /  n  kyuny  &c,  wyllyam  Jones) 


878  ri:NiAUTH  MANtrscMPT  l38. 

516  (Nawdd  dvw  Rag  mastyr  hugh  yr  hawg  &c.) 

{atteb  :    MyddyliwcU  a  doydwch  may  dedwydd  vwch   weithian    .    .    , 
mai  i  gasbeth  fydd  i  gosbi  Aiwn) 

517  Gogerddan,  JL.  badarn  fawr  :  p.  Rissiart  ap  R.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

521  IL.  B.  Mair  :  p.  D.  ap  Ho:  ap  O.  ap  gr:  &c. 

522  Penllyn — y  Bala  :  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  Ho:  ap  tvdyr  ap  gi-ono  &c. 

523  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  bedo  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  meilir  &c. 

527  ZL.  idloes  :  O.  j2;wyn  ap  Ha  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  Res  &c.  ending  with 
the  adventures  of  Gvvaithfoed  killing  the  brigands,  the  wolves  and  the 
murderous  hermit,  named  karwed,  and  his  wife,  who  assumed  "the 
guise  of  a  nun." 

533  Ej.  bister  ymeilienydd — gardd  faeloc :  Jamys  ap  R.  ap  D.  &c. 

537    ]L.  wrin  :  J.  ap  Hiiw  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

543  IL.  Baiadyr  ymochnant,  y  plas  ynghelynoc :  Hvw  ap  0.  ap  ho: 
ap  0.  ap  f.  vychan 

644  Hergest,  kintvn  :  Siarlys  vychan  ap  Jamys  vychan  &c. 

545  Syr  Rissiart  vychan  ap  To:  V'n  ap  Watkyn  V.  &c. 

Syr  Water  Herbart  ap  W.  arg:  H.  ap  syr  W.  ap  To:  ap  gim  &c. 

646  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  gtra  ap  D.  ap  gim  ap  Jankyn  &c. 
William  ap  J.  ap  Roger  ap  J.  ap  gim  ap  Jankyn  &c. 
Rob:  Hopkyn  ap  Ho:  ap  Tho:  ap  gtm  ap  Jankyn  &c. 
D.  ap  gim  ap  morgan  ap  D.  ap  gim  &c. 

D.  ap  Ho;  vychan  iip  Roger  ap  J.  ap  grono  ap  D.  &c. 

647  Roger  o  Hergest  ap  Rissiart  o  H.  ap  Hvgyn  o  H.  ap  Res  &c. 
649  IL.  Jeuan  yn  Swydd  esgob,  sir  ymwythic — ysnel  krqfft  yn  hefii 

oklef :  Rob:  oklefap  nievric  oklef  ap  Res  ap  Tho:  &c. 

550  IL.  padarii  fawr,  hwm  herfedd :  Lewys  ap  1).  ap  Res  &c. 

55 1  Kastell  gicalller  ar  mandir  a  elwyr  ystrad,  ILanihangel  genav 

y  glyn  :  jfenan  ap  Mred:  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
655   Tref  Westvnfadoc  ymlwy  yrystog  yn  sir  Drefaldieyn  :  W.  ap 
657  Harri  sant  o  Wiusor  ap  Harri  v.  &c.  [W.  &c. 

558  EinioD  im  galwan  am  gelwir  /  amgylchion  vab  gwalchmai  ap  meilir 
Swrn  ehvtl  siwrnai  ohir  dnvo  yw  n  hjh  wrth  drigo  n  bir 
Pam  ir  edrycb  angharad  oydryn  /  fyngwallt  nld  yw  wyllt  fynghemyn 
ef  aeth  yn  llwyd -lie  bv  velyn  Nid  val  avr  da  ir  a  dyn 
o  cbollais  Angharad  gall  eirian  /  Eyw  Kodd  ednyfed  vychan 
Ni  choUaf  ewch  i  allan  Nam  gwely  nam  ty  Dam  tan 

659  IL.  drillo  yn  y  dernion  :  Elys  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  "j.  &c. 

660  J.  ap  tin  ap  D.  ap  "].  ap  giwn  llwyd  &c, 

JL.faicr  ym  henllyn  :  Gr:  trefgoed  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

661  IL.  B.  mair :  p.  ho:  ap  J.  vychan  ap  J.  ap  gr:  =  Lewys  &c. 
IL.  gvric — htom  yr  on :  Lewys  ap  ho:  mowddwy  ap  gr:  &c. 

662  IL.  ddiiian,  yskoed  yrivystli :  Morys  goch  ap  D.  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 
665  p.  yr  argl:  Res  np:  gr:  ap  R.  tewdwr  &c. 

668  Kemais — kyfeilioc :  Gr:  ap  gtm  ap  gr:  derwas  &c. 
570        „  „         Gtm  ap  bedo  ap  gvtto  ap  deio  &c. 

572  Edernion  :  p.  edn:  ap  ]f.  ap  deiewsap  kyn:  &c. 
Tvdyr  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  heilyn  &c. 

573  Harri  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  itn  chwith  ap  kyn:  &c. 
Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Itn  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 

Eirid  ap  O,  gwynedd  y  gwr  bioedd  elocharn  nev  hlocharn  tref 
o  werddon  a  roddessid  yn  gyntaf  i  Gr:  ap  kynan  &c. 
674  JL.  ihangel  yngheri  :  J  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 
577  Mochdre  yngheri,  plas  newydd  yn  esgyr  geilioc  :  Rye:  ap  J.   ap 
Dehevbarth:  [R.  ifct. 

681  p.  R.  ap  J.  ap  eign:  ap  bowel  fain  =  tin  goch  /  J.  ddv  &c. 
p.  J.  goch  ap  kadwgan  ap  ho:  vychan  =  J.  /  Gvtto  &c. 
p.  ii.  up  D,  llwyd  np  gwyn  =  Gim  goj  /  Morgan  goch  &o. 


tEHlARTa  MANUSOMPT  lS9.  879 

582  pentre  yn  nant,  Bettws,  eljael  v.  mynydj  :  Ryokert  ap  Ho:  &c. 
684  p.  J.  llwyd  ap  ").  ap  gv:  ap  gr:  voel  =  Rydd}  /  D.  parkc  &c. 

p.  Eyddercli  ap  ").  llwyd  =  Jankyn  /  Thomas  /  D.  &c. 

JL.  gvric  ymhowys :  Morys  ap  Jankyn  gO}  ap  J.  ap  gr;  &c. 

585  -2/.  B.  mair :  J.  ap  morya  ap  ^f.  goch  ap  Mred:  vychau  &c. 

586  Dol  gelle  :  Lewys  ap  O.  ap  Ho:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &c. 

589  Machynllaith  .  Ii'n  ap  Morys  ap  ho:  ap  iin  &c. 

590  IL.  ddinan  .  .  ,  yn  ymyl  kapel  banhadla  yn  llwydiarlh :  Gr; 

ap  bedo  &c. 
594  Swyd)  ddinbych :  Syr  W.  ap  R.  ap  Rob:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

y  plas  ymin  krychell,  IL.  anno  ymelienydd :  Mred:  ap  O.  &c. 
596  yrystoc  yn  swydd  gowres,  y  plas  ymenlre  nant  ymachelltre  : 

■femwnt  ap  Tho:  ap  O.  ap  Edw:  &c. 
599  IL.  i  hangel  yngheiri  yn  Ref  Drevor  :  Siors  ap  D.  hir  ap  J.  &c. 
GOO  -K.  ddewi  fret'i ;  p.   Gr:  ap  trehaiarn  =  Jankyn  /  syr  Wiliam 

vikar  IL,  Bryn  Mair  &c. 
601   Gwehelyth  Morganwc :  J.  ap  Gwrgan  ap  ]f thel  ap  morgan  &c. 

plas  yn  Edynob,  IL.  J.  yn  sir  ymwylhic  :  Rissiart  ap  Ho:  ap  gr: 
603  gvcern  y  goo,  JL.fihangel  yngeri :  Sian  V5  Hvw  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 
605  Penkraig  =  Old  Radnor  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

607  Penllyn  :  Gwenhwyfar  vj  Jankyn  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &o. 

608  Dolgelle :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  clissev  ap  gr:  &c. 

610  „  Tvdyr  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 
IL.  gelynin  :  Gr:  ap  Karri  ap  gr:  ap  edn:  &c. 

611  IL,  Jmllyn  :  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  "].  ap  Res  &c. 

612  IL.  ykil:  J.  ap  f.  ap  Mred:  ap  O.  ap  ').  &c. 

613  IL.  gl^ower^  y[™]  sir  Jeirionydd :  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  &c. 
615  2L.  y  I  ymhenllyn  :  D.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  ^.  &c. 

Dehevbarth  :  Syr  R.  ap  Thomas  ap  gr:  ap  Nickoliis  &c. 

618  Marched  Syr  Gr:  llwyd  o  Wynedd  =  Llevkv  /grisli  &c. 

619  Towyn,  meirionydd :  Edn:  ap  l^icolas  ap  J.  ap  ho:  &c. 

620  „  „  J.  Vychan  ap  Jankyn  ap  John  &c. 

622  IL.  drillo,  Edeirnion :  O.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  y  giwn  llwyd  &c. 

623  kwmicd  Tal  y  bont :  J.  ap  D.  ap  Itn  ap  gronoy  &c. 
G25  K.  Genav  y  glyn  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  ttn  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

627  JL.  ddinan  iskoet  artcystli :  Hvw  ap  Morys  ap  edn:  &c. 
633  IL.  idlos  vwck  „  O.  ap  Morys  ap  U.  ap  griffri  &c. 

638  TLwynheli     „  „  J.  ap  J.  wynn  ap  lewys  gwyn  &c. 

For  coutinuation,  eee  MS.  139,  part  ii.  pp.  403-10  and  part  i.  pp.  271-82. 


MS.  139  in  three  parts. 

Part  i.  =  Hcu.  112  Part  i.  Pedigrees,  mostly  in  the  autogr.iphs 
of  Gr:  Hiraethog  and  W.  JLyn.  Paper;  8^  x  5|  inches;  390  pages 
interleaved  and  repaired  throughout;  1560-90;  strongly  bound  in  calf. 

Pages  1-3,  5-21,  25-8,  77-82,  37-140,  283-302,  313-18,  3^1-27  are  in  the 
autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethog;  pages  3-4,  22,  29-33,  35-76,  141-72,  179-98,  201-54, 
303-12,  319-20,  328-90  are  in  the  hand  of  W.  Llyu;  pages  199-200,  255-70  are 
by  Simwnt  Vychan  ;  and  pages  34,  173-8  as  well  as  a  few  lines  in  many  places  are 
probably  by  Khys  Cain.  Pages  271-82  belong  to  the  end  of  MS.  138  =  Hen.  MS.  Ill 
Kobert  Vaughan  and  others  have  also  made  a  few  entries. 

Merionydd  : 

1  iVaraaw .-p.  Ho:  apD.apMevricap  Ho:sele=Lewys/Rob:/D.<&c. 

2  p.  Gr:  ap  Einon  ap  Gr:  ap  ftn  =  Tudr /Elisse/ gr:  vychan  &c. 
Penllyn  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Einon 

p.  ^.  ap  J.  a  elwid  y  hot  =  J.  /  Mred:/  Dd:  &c. 


880  PENIARTH   MANtfSORtPT   139. 

2  Tudur  penllyn  ap  ^.  ap  ^er:  voel  ap  ^cr:  &c. 
syr  J.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  gron:  ap  D.  &c. 

3  kyfeilioc  :  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  ftn  ap  gr:  =  ttn  /  Mred  /  f .  &c. 

p.  D.  ap  ho:  ap  O.  ap  Gr:  =  Morgan  /  To:  /  Wmffre  &c. 
^.  ap  Eys  ap  rreinallt  ap  '),  ap  Mred:  &c.* 

4  John  Wynn  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  Wm:  ap  deio  &c. 

5  IL.  geinwen — tre  vwsofflen  :  Huw  ap  R.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  ap  Ha 
<>  Bodowyr  :  p.  R.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  or  ail  wraic,  mallt  &c. 

7  Mesoglen  :  p.  ac  wyron  Hvw  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 

8  JLiwon—  y  chwaen  vchaf :  p.  J.  Lewis  o  Elin  =  W.  aned  1553  / 

.  .  Marged  1564 

9  kwmwd  menai:  Rich:  ap  Rydd3  ap  D.  ap  =f.  ap  Edn:  Ac. 

13  Tregayan  ymon:  p.  J.  ap  Eydd3  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

14  Twrkelyn—llwydiarth\ :  Eys  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Gim 

16  Uwydiarth  :  p.  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gim  =  Rys  1532  /  D.  1533  &c. 

17  beno  ynghwmiod  menai :  p.  Ho:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  ap  j.  wyddel  &c. 

18  tre  borthaml  „         p.  Sn  ap  ^.  ap  Mad:  =  huw  /  Rob:  &c. 

19  Uwydiarth  ;  p.  Rys  ap  D.  ap  gim  o  marged  yr  ail  wraic  &c. 

20  Twrkelyn—bodafon  .-  gwely  Sandde  a  thir  D.  ap  Rys  .... 

iu^  xi8  X*         Gwely  iddon  ....  xxxvii"  m^  &c.  &c. 
21t   S.  G.  yn  arfon .-  Mred  :  ap  J.  ap  Rolant  ap  Mred:  &e. 

S.  Vaesyfed:  D.  llwyd  /  Jankyn  /  lewis  =  meib  J.  ap  lewys  &c. 

22  y  plus  yn  y\a]le:  Mathav  llwyd  ap  Rob:  .  .  ap  Gr:  devddwr 

23  llech  hantyn :  Ed:  lech  don  ap  J.  ap  Tomas  &e. 

25  Pvmp  achos  i  gadw  achav  :  (o)  o  blaid  priodassav  Teilwng  &c.§ 
Garth  garmon  vwch  dvlas  :  p.  ho:  v'n  ap  kwnws  =  ^.  /  R.  &c. 
S.  gaer  narfon — ?  emaes :  Tudr  ap  gron :  hwn  aeth  i  dir  yn  dir 

ystent  &c. 

26  k.  menai — mefyrian:  Rydd3  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  Edn:  ap  gr:  &c.^ 

27  Malltraeth :  p.  rrys  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  =  Gr:  a  Wm:  &c.ir 

28  k.  menai :  p.  ttn  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  =  livw  /  Rob:  /  Sion 

yvacnol — II.  etwy :  p.  Edn:  ap  R.  ap  Edn:  v'n  =  R,  wyn  /  lewys 
/gr:  v'n  ac  ]f.  &c. 

„         D.  anwyl  ap  gr:  ap  Edn:  vychan  &c. 

„        D.  llwyd  ap  ftn  ap  R.  ap  Edn:  vychan  &c. 
Tegaingl ;  p.  Kyn:  ap  Jthel  v'n  o goedy  mynydd  =Harri/ J.&c.** 

29  kaer  lleon  :  p.  John  norbury  =  marged,  ales,  Elizabeth  &c. 

31  vii  merch  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  kad:  =  gwenhwyvar  &c. 

llynn  oleu  ynghacr  Einion  :  To:  ap  ().  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

32  &  39  p.  J.  hanraei-  o  lys  bedydd  =  Rio:  /  Edw:  /  Wmtfre  &c. 

34  PeuUyn  :  Ririd  flaidd  ap  gurgenav  &c.f f 

35  „  Ho:  vachan  ap  1).  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  Jeuan  v'n  &c.J| 
37   Y  wavn  is  klawdd :  Rob:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  John  &c. 

40  Vmivythic  :  J),  lloyd  ap  Roger  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  syr  Gr:  v'n  &c. 

41  Nanthavdwy  y  wavn  :  J.  Edw:  ap  J.  Edw:  ap  Wm:  Edw:  &c. 
48  Mam  Ow:  kyveilioc  =  Gwervyl  V3  gwrgenav  &c. 

*  kopi  hyd  hyn:  y  ddolen  nessaf,  a  hyn  o  hon,  o  lyfr  a  fv  n  eiddo  Robin  achwr 
ytnefyrian  ymon. 

f  "  MjtI  Jhon  inui^Moe  prydydd  ac  athro  a  ysgrivennodd  y  rrol  honn  i  dd; 
jsgwier  ap  E.  *  *  *  ap  dd:  ap  gwilitn  yr  hwn  Jhon  oedd  yn  trigo ymodwigau  o 
vewu  tref  loivarch  kwmwd  talebolion  pan  oedd  Jessv  grist  1558  "  (p.  15)  .... 
kopi  air  yngair  val  yr  oedd  yno  &o.  [Gr:  Hiraethog], 

J  y  tvdalen  yma  a  gad  mewn  hen  lyfr  ymefyrian  ymon  or  eiddo  Eobin  [iachwr], 
[G.  H.]  §  q'  llyfr  Tref  veilir. 

^  g'  liber  or  plas  ynrrefeiUr  **  llyfr  Tomas  ap  ?thel 

ft  This  piiRu  is  iu  a  later  hand  (?  R.  Cain)  and  refers  to  the  boohs  of  Guttyn  otuain 
and  feuan  Brechfa,  and  llyfr  byrr  G.  H[iraetIiog']. 

|J  Mnrginal  reference  to  I^lyfr  GutUjn  Owen, 


G.   HIRAETHOQ  AND  W,  LLYN.  881 

50  mam  Tudr  ap  Grono  ap  Edn:  vachan  &c. 

52  llyn  :  Doctor  lloyd  John        D.  Uoyd  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  v*n  &c. 

53  Swnlli  ymaelaicr :  J.  Swnlli  ap  Eob:  ap  Rob:  wynu  &c. 

57  Glan  hafren — y  Rryw :  Tho:  lloyd  ap  gr:  v'n  &c. 

58  Ej.  gedwyn  :  Huw  ap  huw  ap  morys  ap  "j.  &c. 

59  Devddivr :  Wm:  penryn  ap  Hu  penryn  ap  wmfi'ro  &c. 

60  „  Sieffre  penryn  ap  O.  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

61  „  D.  lloyd  ap  sieftVai  ap  J.  ap  Tho:  &;c. 

63  Vmieythic :  Eic:  mytwn  ap  Wm:  yfcyn  ap  to:  mytyn  &c. 
Halchdyn  ydomgay :  Griiffi  ap  D.  ap  Gruff  ap  mad:  &c, 

64  &  66  Hari  argl:  ystraens  ap  Edw:  iarll  derbi  <&c. 

65  p.  sir  pitr  newton  =  arthiir  newt-wn  siarls  N.  &c. 

67  ifaelor — 77iers :  Eob:  pilston  ap  Sir  J.  P.  ap  J.  P.  hen  &c. 

68  llann  rreadr :  katrin  salbri  vj  hari  goch  ap  hari  v'n  &c. 

69  IL.  voir  D.  hlwyd :  7euan  Uwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  Eob:  ap  gr:  &c. 

70  Meivod:  John  ap  E.  ap  O.  ap  O.  &c. 

71  Hiraethoc :  Eys  ap  Hn  ap  Tho:  ap  hob  y  dili  &c.* 
Segrwyd :  Gr:  ap  E.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  )olyn  &c.f 

72  Aberyw :  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  ^,  Uwyd  ap  D.  ap  ph:  goch  &c. 

73  p.  hiiw  pilstwn  o  vargred  V3  hiiw  ap  Edw:  ap  J.  &c.  .  ^577  . 

74  1.  ap  O.  ap  ho:  ap  tin  ap  gr:  ddv  &c. 

75  Vstvm  anair — tywyn  .-  J.  vachan  ap  Jankia  ap  J.  Ac. 

76  Gwisane :  Robert  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  iin  vab  J.  wyn  or  twr  &c. 

77  Jhon  ap  Eob:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  tin  ap  D.  grono 

82  Table  of  the  descendants  of  an  avr  dorchoc     llyfr  Edw:  ap  Roger 

83  [XV  llvsyth  Gwynedd  a  V  brenhinllwyth  Cymry) 

84  (Tair  Berr  ach  G.  ar  xv  llwyth  i  gwlad  ai  harfaii)        end  wanting 
87  6'.  K.  vyrddin — mab  elvyw :  D.  ap  einion  ap  D.  ap  J.  blaene&c. 

Pebidioc  pentre  kwm  II.  vair  nant  y  gof:  Jhon  ap  O.  ap  D.  ifecj 

89  kyveilioc — IL.  wrin :  To:  ap  J.  ap  To:  ap  Hn  ap  J,  &o. 
IL.  idloes :  syr  J.  ap  D.  ap  E.  ap  Wm: 

IL.  gvric ;  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  ddv  ap  dwn  ap  J.  &c. 
„  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  Eichart  ap  D.  &c. 

90  „  D.  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  ^.  ap   R.  dv  &c.§ 
,,          p.  Hu  ap  ).  ap  Ph:  ap  ).  ap  gr:  &c. 

91  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Rodri  mawr 

92  „         ,,  ,,  Edw:  III.  to  queen  Mary 

93  „         „  „  Gr:  ap  ap  gron 

94  Eioh:  argl:  esgob  ty  ddewi  ap  D.  ap  gro:  &c. 

94  &  167  Idiot  y  vedwen — kapel    ?  gwilawst :  To:  ap  rrenallt  &c. 

95  kydweli :  Table  of  the  desc'  of  Gr:  ap  Hn  ap  gwrgaut  Ac. 

96  Gwilim  ap  J.  ap  bleddyn  ap  adda  Uwyd 

97  Table  of  the  desc=  of  li.  ap  Edn:  ap  kynbrawd 

99  Meifod:  Rys  goch  ap  D.  ap  jfthel  ap  'j.  ap  Mred 

100  Eglwysec :  D.  Uwyd  ap  ho:  ap  ]f.  ap  Rys 
gwrexam :  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  Edw:  ap  f.  ap  deikws 

101  Table  of  the  descendants  oi  Penwyn 

102  Ej.  hassa—pant  y  llongdy  :  To:  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  v'n  &c. 

103  Aber  honwy  .  Eob:  konwy  /  Edw:  konwy  &c. 

p.  Hari  konwy  o  sychdyn  ap  Siariis  konwy  &c. 
105  Edmwn  stanle  ap  syr  W.  ystanle 
107  Sn  a])  ynyr  ap  ho:  ap  moriddic 
109  p    Edn:  ap  gr:  ap  "j.  ap  enion  ap  Gr:  &c. 


*  0  lyfr  Robert  trevor  f  »  '<'«'  G""'  Hiraethoc 

J  0  law  Dd:  ap  .Janhyn  vynrjlwyd  (p.  88). 
§  Uyfr  hir  Edw:  ap  Roger 


882      ,  PENlABTH  MANUSCRIPT  lS9, 

116  Vvionydd — ;/  Uwyn  dyrys :  chwaer  meilir  chwith  ap  ^er:  ap  gr: 

a  briodes  To:  pilstwn 

117  Hiraethoc,  y  hernioge :  Eob:  wyn  ap  Eo:  gethin  ap  moi-ys  G. 
1 1 9  Arwystl — K,.  idloes  :  J.  wyn  ap  O.  gwyn  [ap]  fin  llwyd  &c. 
123  Hari  ap  Thomas  ap  hari  ap  kyn:  ap  jfthel  &c. 

]  24  JLj  dekwyn :  Wmffre  ap  O.  ap  Jankyn  ap  R.  &c. 

y  ddiserth :  Lewys  llwyd  ap  Mred:  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  O.  &c. 

125  gavel  gyhelyn — tre  veilw :  EeiDallt  ap  J.  ap  Sn  ap  deikws  &c. 
Dd:  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  llwch  &e. 

126  Table  of  the  descendants  of  syr  Roger  kinasi 

127  „         „  „  7eiian  gethin 

128  .,         „  „  itn  tad  ]lhel  velyn  /  dolffin  &c. 

129  Mon — aevrddreinioc :  ).  ap  Grim  ap  'jfthel  vychan  &c. 

130  Tegengl :  Wm:  ap  to:  vychan  ap  to;  gr:  &c. 
Mon  :  p.  gr:  ap  )er:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

131  Win:  hanmer  orffens  ap  Jankyn  h.  ap  gr:  vychan  &c. 

134  s.  y  wavn — brynn  kvuallt :  To:  ap  Jhon  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  &c. 

135  Jhon  vychan  ap  hvw  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  vychan  &c. 

139  Edmwn  ryd  of  cliakyngton  of  barkshir 

140  Table  of  the  desc'  of  D.  ap  gr:  ap  kariadoc 

141  Mam  John  lonhdon  (2)  mam  Kob:  pigoc  ap  To:  pigod 

142  Rac  yr  annvoyd :  kymer  ddyrnaid  o  Eissop  &c. 

Sarthle,  TL.  armon  D.  keriog :  p.  ).  lloyd  ap  John=to:  /  J.  hiiw 

143  Maenticroc — hen  dref  ynvr :  Rys  wynn  ap  }.  !ip  Gr:  &c. 
145  Aber  tanad :  To:  tanad  ap  ).  llwyd  vychan  ap  ).  llwyd  &c. 

149  karec  liicfa :  W.  ap  Reinallt  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 

150  Tref  valdwyn :  Edw:  herbart  ap  syr  Eipsiart  h.  &c. 

151  mam  gr:  ap  D.  goch  =  angharad  V3  heilin  ap  tiidur  &c. 

152  mam  henri  dwnn  =  annes  V3  kad:  &c. 

153  Edyrnion — hrogen:  Morgan  ap  to:  ap  ho:  ap  gn  &c. 
155  Rvthvn .  To:  ap  Mprys  ap  J.  ap  Mad: 

158  Powys :  p.  Eeinallt  ap  syr  gr:  varchoc  &c. 

159  Parky  Dretcen :  Tho:  (powel)  ap  Eob:  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  &c. 
161    TrefAlvn:  J.  Trevor  ap  S.  trefor  ap  J.  Trevor  &c. 

164  Ness :  Rich:  kir.aston  ap  Ric:  kiiiast  ap  J.  K.  &c. 
glynu  Dyfrdwy  :  Lewys  gwycn  ap  E.  ap  to:  ap  D.  &c. 

165  Elsmer :  ffrawnsses  kinast  ap  Siors  k.  ap  wmffre  k.  &c. 
168  Mameu  John  Hvvrd  /  Rwallon  ap  kynvyn,  R.  mechyll  &c. 
170  sir  G.  lleon :  Syr  S.  Savaels  ap  syr  J.  S.  &c. 

173  &  179  Mathrajal :  Edw:  grae  arg:  Poioys  ap  Edw:  G.  &c. 

178  Garthmeilio  :  p.  J.  ap  R.  wynn  =  Rob:  /  S'  T.  vikar  meivod  &c. 

179  Ritcabon  :  J.  ap  W.  ap  D.  ap  Elis  Evtyn  &c. 

181  kaer  lleon  :  W  W.  gearad  (tad  Gilbard  Gearrarde)  &c. 

184  Mowddwy :  W.  ior  mowddwy  ap  Gwenwynwyn  .  .  .  S.  bvvrch. 

Rich:  Newport  ap  to:  Newport  &c. 

Edw;  lochtou  ap  J.  lechdon  (&  p.  185)  ap  syr  to:  &c. 

Edw;  mytyn  ap  Ric:  M.  ap  W.  M.  ap  Elsbeih  V3  J.  Bwrch 

syr  John  lingen  ap  isabel  v)  sion  bwrch 
J  86  IL.  Evrgain :  p.  had  ap  1).  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  ithel  vachan  &c. 

189  Maesbrok  :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  huw  ap  R  ap  Mad:  &c. 

190  Maelawr:  p.  Wmffrey  domoc  ap  Rondl  domoc  &c. 

191  syr  Hiiw  siomle  vah  Elsbeth  vj  syr  Rondl  brutwn  &c. 

192  lloegr  :  Rob:  ay  ton  ap  J.  syton  ap  syr  Edm:  &c. 

193  Gwrddi:  Rich:  Draper  ap  Tho:  draper  ap  Roger  D.  &c. 

194  Kaer  gai :  Owain  ap  J.  ap  ho:  vachan  ap  ho:  &c. 
199  Matn  Joned  Vstanle  —  blaens  V3  J.  ardere  &c. 

gOl  Plafward:  simwnt  thelwal  ap  Ric:  Th.  ap  Edw:  Th.  &c. 


G.   HIEAETHOa  AND  W.   LLYN.  883 

209  Bodlith — JL.  silin  ynghynlleith  :  D.  Uwyd  ap  To:  Uwyd  &c. 

21 1  Edw:  homvy  ap  huw  k.  ap  Reinallt  k.  &c. 

215  Bod  Ryddan  :  J.  aer  konwy  ap  J.  aer  k.  &c. 

219   Tywyn  :  Wmffre  ap  J.  wyn  ap  wmffre  ap  lio:  &c. 

221,  225,  &  357  IL.  drinio  ynenddwr  :  Gv.  ap  fta  ap  Reinallt  Ac. 

222  Brochdyn  :  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  vachan  Ac. 

223  Penkoed   rjnyUonydd :  To:  ap  0.  ap  gr:  ap  Movys 

226  K,yn :  Tair  merched  Morgan  ap  if.  ap  Mred:  o  henllech 
Y  trallwnk — y  llai  :  Olfir  Uwyd  ap  wnfEre  Uwyd  &c. 
Aber  lionioy  :  Ric:  pek  ap  hugh  pek  ap  Ric:  p.  &c. 

227  Aber  gele :   W.  Holant  ap  D.  holant  &c. 
p /;  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Hn  vachan  &c. 

228  Allrre :  p.  Elis  ap  Ric:  ap  ho:  &c. 

229  JKaer  :  g.  Wm:  kent  =  katrin  y}  Rob:  ap  gr:  Uwyd  &G, 
231   Gloddaeth  :  Wm:  (mostyn)  ap  to:  ap  Ric:  ap  ho:  &c. 

237  „  Madoc  gloddaith  ap  Mad:  vachan  &c. 

238  Maelor :  J.  wynn  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  5f.  &c. 

239  Ghvedir  :  Morys  wynn  ap  J.  wyn  ap  Mred:  &c. 
247  John  wynn  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  Elissav  ap  Grr:  &c. 

249  penii  mynydd  ymon :  Ric:  Owain  ap  Ric:  O.  ap  Rio:  &c. 

250  Y  Drefwen  :  p.  syr  Roger  Powys  ap  grono  =  syr  mevric  lloyd  / 

Roger  estwic  /  Roger  v'n  /  grono  /  Owain  &c. 

251  Y  llai  ymhowys  :  Olvir  lloyd  ap  wmffre  lloyd  &c. 

252  koed  y  llai  :  J.  Bvtyn  ap  J.  E.  ap  Gr:  ap  nikolas  ap  Deikws&c. 

253  Yr  hob  :  Rys  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  Robert  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 
Maelor :  Ric:  sersiant  tegin  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  tegin  &c. 

254  plas  kad:  ymaelor :  Edw:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

255  Glyn  lliioon :  W.  glyun  ssarssiant  of  arms  ap  Rob:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
265  Description  of  the   arms  of  kilmin  troedtv,  pilstwn,  kyn:   ap 

Riwallon,  llywarch  ap  Bran,  Collwyn,  Rys  ap  Rotpert,  hwva,  Ririd 
vlaidd,  hyn.-sais,  Ednywain  bendew,  Ywain  brogevntvn,  Yw:  gwynedd, 
Marchvdd,  yr  Arg:  Rys,  Einion  ap  Gwalchmai,  Y  giwn  Uwyd, 
Moriddic  Warwyn,  Maenyrch. 

268  Y Penrryn  :  syr  R.  gr:  ap  syr  W.  gr:  ap  syr  W.  gr:  ap  \V. 
vychan  ap  gim  ap  gr:  &c. 

270  Sownlli .  J.  swnlli  ap  Rob:  S. 

271*  iJGwraic  Owain  ap  J.  ap  ho:  vychan  =  Margared  wen  &c.  ends : 
Matn  Ho:  vychan  ap  j.  ap  Eyn:  &c. 

283  Bodfel — IL.  vawr  yn  llyn  :  Jhon  wyn  ap  hvw  ap  Jhou  &c. 

288  tre  benhoed — yfionydd  :  p.  Rob:  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  &c.         .  1'i63  . 

289  Tre  chivilog      „      The  desc^  of  Ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Enion 

290  Tre  rddivy  Wenarth  „    „  Ho:   ap  Mad:   ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  Ac. 

291  Myllteyrn  yn  llyn  :  Rob:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  ap  J.  v'n  ...  p.  Rob:  Ac. 

294  X  Vllwyth  gwynedd — kopi  o  gasteMmarch  :  Hwva  ap  kynddel  Ac. 

295  Hiraethoc — keirnioge :  Rob:  wyn   ap  Rob:  gethin  Ac.  followed 

by  an  extensive  list  of  mothers. 

302  Nannav  :  The  descend^  of  kadwgon  ap  bleddyn  down  to  Ho;  selyf 

303  Penan — Eglioys  vach:  sieffrai  holant  ap  hvw  holant  Ac. 
305  Rob:  Syton  arg:  Lester  ap  J.  Syton 

308  W.  harbart  jarll  penvro  ap  Ric.  H.  ap  syr  W.  H.  Ac. 

310  Ric:  ior  Dewi  ap  D.  ap  grono  ap  deio 

311  Aber  taivy ;  syr  jors  herbart  brawd  W.  jarll  Penvro 

312  Silatyn  :  Thomas  Htinmer  ap  Rich:  ap  D.  ap  ho:  Ac. 

313  Gtcrexan — Tref  (Esclus)  :  Edw:  TrafForth  ap  Rob:  ap  Edw:  Ac. 
319  Towyn  me.iriony :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  ho:  Ac. 


»  Pages  271-83  belong  to  the  end  of  MS.  138«=^Hen,  MS.  111. 


884  PfiNIAETH  MANUSCRIPT  13S. 

320  V.  alvn :  cliwiorydd  Gr:  ap  bleddyn  =  Gwenllian  /  Margred  /  Ac. 
Pener  lak :  Gronwy  korbin  ap  enion  ap  kadwgan 

J,  Gr:  ap  bleddyu  ap  Enion  vychan  &c. 

,,  M"^  W.  'Jeuans  ap  Ey chart  ^.  ap  Jhon  ^euans 

321  Tref ?  gavel  awr  ap  J. — D.  ap  Matbe  wyn  ap  D.  ap  Edw:  &c. 

326-7   Tref  or  :  The  descends  of  f.  ap  adda  ap  awr;  (b)  Adda  goch 

328  sir  Dinhych — Ryssyfwr  tor  Robert :  "jer:  ap  to:  ap  J,  ap  Roger 

ap   tho:  ap  John   yr  hwnn  John    ai    saith   vroder  gidac   ef 
am  ladd  gior  aethant  i  went 

329  Riivabon :  Edw:*  ap  Roger  ap  J.  ap  Elis  ap  S.  Evtyn  &c. 
348  JLicyn  tudmon  yn  II.  y  menych :  To:  ap  hiigh  ap  J.  ap  Mred:&c. 
363  Bodylling  yn  Riwabo?t :  p.  Edw:  ap  Roger  ap  J.  &c. 

382  Havodicen — sir  ymwythic  :  Ric:  lloyd  ap  Olfir  11.  ap  D.  lloyd  &c.. 
388   Tref  gynon — kydeicain :  D.  lloyd  blaenav  ap  to:  ap  ]f.  &c. 


Part  ii  =  Hen.  MS.  112  part  ii.  Pedigrees  and  Heraldry, 
mostly  in  the  autograph  of  (Villiam  EAjn.  Paper  ;  8^  X  .5|  inches  ; 
418  pages  interleaved  and  repaired  throughout;  1560-90;  strongly 
bound  in  calf. 

Pages  75-88,  &  219-32  are  in  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethog  ;  pages  154, 
177-90,  210-2,  263-4,  284,  411-17  as  well  as  a  few  lines  in  many  other  places  are 
in  the  hand  Jof  Rhys  Cain;  pages  191-2  are  by  Siin\rat  Vychan;  pages  68-71, 
111-14,  295-300  are  by  .T,  124-5,  126-7,  314-18,  385-8  are  by  j^,  197-9  are  by  z  ; 
pages  403-10  belong  to  the  end  of  MS.  138  =  Hen.  MS.  Ill  ;  the  other  pages 
except  a.  few  entries  are  by  W.  Llyn,  ■with  the  exception  of  the  Heraldic  part  (pp. 
33-51),  which  are  doubtfully  by  him. 

1  Sir  D.  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  &c.  biccar   Ruahon,   followed 
by  the  usual  maternal  ascents. 

26  kroes  Osswallt :  mastr  J.  prys  prelad  ap  J.  ap  To:  ap  R.    &c. 
The  late  AV.   W.    E.  Wynne  thinks  the  above  John  Price,  Ll.D.,   was   the 

predecessor  at  Oswestry  of  the  Eev:    W.  Owen  =  W.  Llyn  in  whose  hand  the 
pedigree  is  written. 

27  Gressffordd :  lewys  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  Gr: 
Gwersyll:  John  ap  J.  ap  lewjs  ap  To:  ap  D.  &c. 
Gressffordd:  J.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 

28  Dryil  y  pobydd :  Rich:  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  .  .  .  K.  Oswallt 
Tegaingl:  Hari  ap  to:  ap  hari  ap  kyn:  &c. 

29  Meilienydd :  Ho:  fain  ap  Kad:  ap  grono  &c. 

K.  Osswallt :  p.  J.  trevor  vaehan  o  gatrin  V3  J.  lloyd  o  jfal  &c. 

30  Almor:  Edw:  almor  ap  J.  almor  ap  J.  A.  &c. 

33  Mathauarn  ymhowys ;  J.  ap  huw  ap  "].  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
The  arms  {coloured)  and  some  descendants  of  Gwyddno  garauir, 
Kylinin,  Aleth  vrcnin  Dyfed,  O.  gwynedd,  Kynan,  Kollwyn,  Sir 
Roetssier  Pillssdwnn,  Gr:  Miielor,  Mred:  ap  Bleddyn,  Kynvyn, 
Gwrystan,  Gwaithvoed,  Ynyr  vychan  o  Nannav,  Ossbwrn,  ]feuan 
llwyd,  Einion  Efell,  Gwennwys,  Morgan  evas,  lestin  ap  Gwrgan,  Gr: 
Derrwas,  Ednowain  bendew,  Elystan  glodriidd,  Owen  gwynedd,  Edwin, 
Marchua,  and  Rys  ap  Tewdwr. 

51  syr  Ric:  gethin  a  Ry»  G.  =  raeib  O.  ap  R.  ap  Rikart  &c. 

52  Dudliist:  W.  Evtyn  ap  J.  Evtyn  ap  John  8cc. 

53  vii  raerch  syr  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Rys  ap  Gr:  &o. 
Maeshiiik:  To:  gethin  ap  W.  g.  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  gethia  &c. 


'  Edw;  a  fv  varw  ano  1587  "  [Rys  Cain]. 


WILLIAM  LLYN  AND  OTHSRS.  885 

64  Dyifryn  klicyd :  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  D.  ddv  ap  D.  Ac. 
hors  y  gedol :  p.  Eys  vachan  ap  Wm:  ap  gr:  &c. 
Henllan :  Richart  ap  Hari  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  &c. 

55  y  wydd[g]7-vc :  Reinallt  ap   Gr:  ap  bledJyn  ap  Einion  &c. 
kyvelioc  :  Morgan  to:  ac  Wmffre  =  meib  D.  ap  ho:  ap  O.  &c. 

56  ,,  7.  ap  R.  ap  Reinallt  ap  }.  ap  Mred:  &c. 
„  R.  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

„  Hn  /  mad: /a  *  ^euan  =  meib  D.  Uwyd  ap  gr:  &c. 

57  Mychynllaith :  J.  ap  ho:  goch  ap  Mad:  &c.. 

"Devddivr  y  kolloryn  :    Huw  /  Mred:  /  S.  wynn  =  p.   gr:   ap 
Mred:  ap  O.  &c. 

58  Deav  :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  Jer:  ap  R.  chwith  &c.  liyfr  J.  Brechva 
69  Ystryd  alvn  :  J.  ap  ithel  ap  Gr:  ap  belyn  ap  kad:  dekaf  &c. 

60  Evionydd  ac  yn  trigo  yn  y  trallwnh :  Morys  ap  R,  ap  Mad:  &c. 

61  y  Drefwen :  D.  ap  Einion  ap  Mad:  goch  &c, 
Potoys — Mechain :  Ho:  ap  Einion  ap  kyfnerth  &c. 
y  trayan  :  J.  ap  ho:  ap  Einion  g05  ap  D.  &c. 

62  Roger  vachan  ap  syr  Roeser  Powys  ap  grono  &c. 

63  Ho:  ap  Einion  0  vechain  ap  kyfnerth  &c. 

64  KaeHo'l:  To:  lloyd  ap  J.  lloyd  ap  D.  Uoyd  &c. 

65  Maelor :  J.  ap  deikws  vongam  ap  Mad:  ap  lin  &c. 

Glyn  keirioc :  p.  gr:  ap  Edn:  ap  ]fer:  goch  =  Mred:  /  J.  8tc. 
y  brynn :  J.  ap  Morys  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

66  Bwras ;  W.  bwras  ap  J.  ap  Einion  ap  'Jolyn  &c. 

67  Kad:  ddv  /  glm  tew  /  bedo  chwith  /  ho:  y  fronn  /  ac  ]f .  ddv  =  meib 

D.  ap  Ho:  ap  Meilir  ap  Phi:  &c. 
J.  dwnn  /  lewys  /  a  ho:  =  meib  ystyfyn  ap  D.  ap  lin  &c. 

68  Nant  konwy :  p.  Gr:  vachan  ap  gr:  ap  D.  go} 

p.  "Jeuan  Uwyd  ap  gr:  ap  grono  &c. 

69  p.  Ho:  koetmor  =  R.  /  'Jeuan  /  Einion  /  mevric  &c. 

73  S.  vab  Risiart  vab  S.  vab  Tho:  vab  morice  ap  J.  Gethin  &c. 
Pentref  aeron  :  Tho:  lloyd  ap  Roger  ap  huw  ap  D.  &c. 

74  Penkoed  yn  Evionydd ;  Hiiw  ap  O.  ap  Gr:  ap  morys  &c. 

75  y  vron  hevloc :  Morgan  vychan  ap  lewys  ap  f.  &c. 

81  Pyrs  pilston  /  Richart  P.  /  Roger  P.  =  meib  J.  P.  0  dir  mon  &c.* 

83  p.  hvw  llwjd  ap  Ednyved  ap  llai  =J./  Jankyn  /  ffwc  &c. 

84  Eglwyssec :  p.  Morys  ap  J.  ap  lin  =  Ed.  /  Rob  /  syr  Lewys 

vikar  meifod  [1556-79]  &c. 

86  XV  llwyth  gwynedd :  Edwin  ap  grono  &c.t 

87  Table  of  descendants  of  kynvyn 

Henllan :  Hari  salbri  ap  hari  S.  ap  J.  Salbri 

89  p.  syr  Hari  vernon  ap  W.  vernon  np  syr  Rio:  V.  <fcc. 

90  lloegr :  syr  Hari  Sydne  arglwydd  prestens  ap  syr  W.  S.  &e. 

91  keri — kefn  y  beren :  Morys  ap  John  ap  Rys  &c. 

93  ILaweni :  Jan  V3  D.  miltwn  ap  D.  miltwn  ben  ap  Ririd  &c. 

94  JL.  gwyfen — D.  kltoyd :  p.  D.  Uwyd  ap  s.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

95  Eghvysec :  p.  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  D.  &c. 

96  Roser  yn  sir  ymwythic  :  To:  /  arthvr  &c.  ==  meib  To;  ap  To: 
Brynn  Evryn :  p.  Edw:  konwy  =  Hiiw  /  Robt:  /  sion  &c. 

97  Arfav  D.  Uwyd  ai  vrodyr  perpal 

98  Bachelldref :  Ririd  ap  Rob:  ap  Ririd 
Britsi  north  :  Rolaut  harwest  ap         &c. 

„  J.  weitbrok  a  Rolant  =  meib  huw  weitbrok 

*  kopi  o  gart  Roger  P.  0  elton"  [Gr:  Hir:] 

f  Pages  86  aud  88  are  taken  from  "  llyft  l[ewys]  E[dward].  " 


886  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  139. 

99  Henffordd :  syr  Jams  krofft  ap  Eic:  kroiFap  syr  Edw:  k.  &c. 

101  llwyn  hoi :  Gtm  ap  E.  ap  Ph:  ap  D.  ap  E.  &c. 
Gwrexam :  p.  huw  pilstwn  =  J.  /  Edw.  /  Eob:  /  Eic:  &c. 

102  Meifod  ymhowys :  Morys  ap  tho:  ap  Mred:  ap  Tudur  &c. 
Meifod:  O.  ap  Icwys  ap  O.  ap  Mad  ap  jf.  &c.* 

103  &  108  Meifod:   W^mffre  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  Su 

„  J.  ap  hari  ap  mred:  ap  tudur 

105  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Sir  W.  Ludlow 

106  2t.  drinio  :  Rio:  Derwas  ap  J.  D.  ap  O.  &c. 

107  Towyn  :  Morgan  ap  Gr:  ap  Enion  ap  ho:  &c. 
Sir  gaer :  'Jeuan  krach  ap  siak  ap  ^euan  &c. 

109  Penllyn :  ).  ap  Tudur  penllyn  ap  )•  ap  ifer:  voel  &c. 

„  syr  John  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  grono 

Sir  gaer  :  G-r:  llwyd  ap  Eys  ap  Hn  vychan  &c. 

110  p.  D.  ap  Eobin  ap  ftn  =  Hiiw  /  Eob:  /  Eys  /  f .  /  0.  &c. 
raadawc  ap  gr:  dew  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  pennrryn  &c. 
Harddleck :  Jhon  phalkws  ap  Jhon  ffalkws 

111  2L.  armon  mynydd  mawn  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Win:  ap  Mathav  &e. 
kroes  Oswallt :  Eisiart  blodwol  ap  S.  ap  'j.  bach  &c. 

114  Eobart  IFletsier  ap  Eoger  ffletsier  ap  Eob:  ffletsier 
Tomas  ap  morys  ap  Eys  ap  mred:  &c, 

115  p.  Gr:  ap  iio:  ap  Gr:  ap  Edn:  v'n  =  syr  E.  lien  &c. 

116  p.  wibli  o  vargred  =  syr  hari  wibli  &c. 

llaweni :  p.  syr  J.  Salbri  o  siau  V3  D.  miltwn  =  Eob:  /  to  &c. 

117  Tegaingl :  p.  Eowling  ap  J.  ap  ithel  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

llys  veissir :  D.  lloyd  ap  niklas  ap  Eys  ap  Morys  &c.  {also  p.  236.) 

118  syr  J.  person  korbed  ap  Edm:  k.  ap  pirs  k.  o  li 
iv  merch  Jaukin  kinast  ap  gr:  kinast  &c. 

119  Rvddlan  :  pirs  muton  /  sersiant  ap  Eic:  motwn  &c. 
y  krevddyn :  Eob:  ap  huw  ap  Eichart  ap  John  &c. 

120  Maelor  saesnec  :  IFransses  Domok  ap  wmffre  domok  &c. 

121  jfolo  go}  ap  ithel  g03  ap  kyn:  ap  'Jer  ap  kyn  &o, 
Tegaingl :  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  kyn:  ap  ).  ap  Gr:  &c. 

y  trayan — sivydd  oswallt :  D.  ap  0.  ap  'Jer:  ap  hwfa  llwyd  &c: 

122  Gr:  ap  f.  wynn  ap  Einion  ap  Jeuan  &c. 

123  Halclidyn :  W.  ap  J.  ap  Eic.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

124  JL.  gernyw :  p.  "].  lloyd  ap  dauid  ap  mred:  &c. 

125  John  ap  Gr:  ap  hari  ap  Gr:  ap  Edn:  ap  aron  &c. 

126  ITj.  voir  dalhayarn :  J.  wyn  ap  W.  ap  Mred:  ap  dauid  &c. 

127  ILeweni :  p.  S.  wyn  ap  W.  o  Els:  V3  J.  hen  Pulsion  =  syr  J. 

Salbri  /  W.  wyn  /  ag  Alls  wen  g.  Moris  kuffiyu 
Abergeley  :  peris  holiand  ap  J.  hoUand  ap  D.  h.  &c. 

128  II  mam  Mretl:  ap  D.  ap  Einion  vachan  &c. 

129  Yr  owredd,  Maelor  S. — syr  To:  Hanmer  ap  syr  To:  H.  ap 

Eich:  H.  .  .  .  g.  syr  T.  hanmer  I069—  katrin  V5  T.  Salter 
Emral :  M'  Eoger  Pilston  ap  syr  Edw:  p.  ap  syr  Eoger  P.  &c. 

137  Maelor :  G.  Eob:  ap  Edw:  ap  ho'l  ap  Hn  &c. 

„  D.  ap  ttn  ap  Edn:  lloyd  ap  Jer:  v'n  &c. 

138  Mvn  :  Mred:  ap  To:  ap  mred:  ap  kyn:  &c. 

139  ,,         P-  ho:  ap  Hn  ap  ithel  =  J.  a  Wm: 

Mj.  gatJien  :  p.  E.  Tomas  =  W.  /  J.  /  Sian  /  gaenor  &c. 

140  Ysbyty  :  p.  E.  ap  Mred:  ap  tudur  =  ho:  /  M'  Eob:  /  morys  &c. 

141  Penllyn :  p.  Gr:  ap  Mad:  ap  Jer:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

143  2L.  sanan — plas  yn y  dyffryn :  Tho:  wynn  ap  Eob:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

144  JLannerch  Riigoo  :  Eic:  Tegin  sersiant  ap  Eob:  ap  D.  tegin  &c. 


'  Uyfr  Edw:  ap  Roger." 


WILLIAM  LLYN  AND  OTHEES.  887 

145  Sir  G.  lleon :  J.  dution  ap  hugh  dutton  ap  sir  Pirs  &c. 

146  Plas  Dution  :  Tho:  Dutton  ap  J.  D.  ap  Sir  pirs  &c. 

147  J.  Vachan  person  IL.  sanffraid  ap  Rys  ap  ^.  &c. 

148  Trefy  brodyr — ymwythic :  Hugh  lloyd  ap  J.  11.  ap  D.  11.  &c. 

149  Ednop:  Rich:  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  Jankin  &c. 

151  Kegidfa  :  Edmwnt  lloyd  ap  To:  lloyd  ap  Hugiril.^&c. 
154  Gr:  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Eing:  ....  ap  kad:  o  nannav  &c. 

156  p.  wmffre  kinast  o  V3  W.  ap  gr:  ap  Robin  o  gwehwillan  &c. 

157  Millyniaid:  Ririd  ap  D,  bothon  ap  Ririd  ap  Mad:  &c. 
159  Bwras:  0.  bruwton  ap  J.  briiton  ap  Edw:  b.  &c.  ' 

162  JL.  ddinir  aberytu :  To:  ap  Wmffre  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

163  sir  longhast[ev^  :  syr  vrien  briiton  ap  s"^.  Rondl  brerton  &c. 
y  tralhonh  ;  Ho:  porter  ap  Rob:  p.  ap  Rio:  p.  &c. 

164  Powys  :  Edw:  Davis  ap  Edw:  ap  jf.  ap  W.  ap  D.  &c. 

165  Sir  Gaer :  syr  hiigh  kafle  ap  syr  siors  kalle  &c. 

166  Penllyn  a  Dinmael:  T.  gethin  ap  ho:  il'd  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

167  2&.  Evrgain :  bikar  bruwtwn  (M'  Tho:)  ap  Edw:  briiton  &c. 
haer  Hvn :  'Jors  Davis  ap  hiiw  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  &c.~ 

168  Tables  of  the  descendants  of  Owain  brogevntvn 

176  Maelor  saesnec  .-  To:  ap  Ow:  ap  Jer:  ap  0.  ap  D.  ap  gtm  &c. 

177  &  179-81  Deuddivr  y  hollfryn  :  O.  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

178  Meifod  :  Rys  ap  D.  ap  'Jthel  ap  ^euan  &c. 

182  Syr  Tho:  person  Hopsae  ap  R.  ap  D.  <fec. 

Sidbri :  J.  Pwrsslo  ap  Rob:  Pwrsslo  &c.  [imperfect 

183  Devddwr  Trefwylan  :  p.  W,  llwyd  ap  ftn  =  Rob:  /  Sieffre  /  hvw 

185  Ymwythic  :  Rissiart  Pyrser  ap  nikolas  p.  ap  Ric:  p.  &e. 
p.  D.  ap  gr:  ap  )evsan  ap  ithel  bach  &c. 

186  Machynllaith :  Harri  vachan  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  Hn  &c. 

187  Yr  wyddgrvc:  p.  Jthel  ap  gr:  ap  belyn  =  J.  /  Margred  &c. 

188  Mowddwy  :  "j.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

191  W.  Hvws  Esgob  TL.  Elwy  [1573-1600],  persson  Diningtwn  (yn 
esgobaeth  Norwits)  a  liysvaen,  ap  syr  Hvw  ap  kyn:  ap 
tvdvr  ap  gr:  gymro  &c.  [^577  .  - 

193  Mowddwy  :  Edw:  Myttonarg:  mowddwy  ap  Edw:  ap  Ric:  &c. 

195  Gwedir  :  p.  J.  Wynn  aji  mred:  (2)  p.  O.  wynn 

p.  W.  Evtyn  =  Edw:  /  J.  /  W.  /  a  mari— marw  i  tad  1578. 

196  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Hie:  Vernon,  miles,  down  to  1574. 

197  J.  ap  Maths  goch  Ac.  (2)  J.  vab  Siams  &c.  (3^  Huw  lloyd  ap 

J .  lloyd  &c.  .  ,  .  ends :  Edw:  herbart  argl:  kaer  ddydd  ap 

W.  /  jarll  penfro. 
200  Tal  y  bont :  Ric:  sae  ap  hiiw  sae  ap  mathav  sae  &c. 
202  Meilienydd :  Jamys  ap  J.  gwynn  ap  Jams  ap  Rys  kc. 

204  Melwern :  Hugh  ap  J.  ap  D.  [ap]  ftn  .  .  .  .  ap  Gr:  devddwr 

205  JL.  drinio :  Wmffre  /  Reinallt  /  katrin  =  p.  J.  goch  &c. 

206  Witton  :  p.  W.  sbenser  ap  W.  sbenser 

207  kastell:  J.  Wynn  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  .  .  .  ap  Gr:  devddwr 

208  kylynoc :  J.  ap  Morys  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

209  kegidfa — Tir  ymenych:  Rys  ap  kadwaladr  ap  D.  lloyd  <fec. 

210  Maeior  S.—To:  ap  O.  ap  fer: 

Sir  y  mwythic:  Edw:  Sgriven  ap  To:  sgriven  &c. 

211  mercbed  Gr:  Hanmer  o  Elen  V3  syr  pyrs  dutton  &c, 

212  mercbed  O.  Glyndwr  Eliz:  g.  syr  J.  ysgvdmor  &c. 

213  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Bis  ancestor  of  Morgan  Branas  , 

214  „  Madog  gloff 

215  Trefnant :  Rich:  ap  D.  ap  mathav  ap  ho: 

216  Jal :  D.  llwyd  ap  Rys  ap  Edw:  ap  jolyn 

217  Devddwr — Halchdyn  :  Gr:  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 


888  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  139. 

218  Pentrefy  gildiwr :  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  pirs  &c. 

219  helliwic — bri/n  kroes:  0.  ap  Tudvr  vychan  ap  ho:  &c.     .   133^  , 
Jhon  gr:  ap  J.  gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  mred:  &c. 

Bron  yllwyd  yn  llyn  :  3  merched  ^thel  ddv  =  margred  &c. 

220  Madryn  :  Mad:  ap  ).  ap  R.  ap  jf-  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 
IL.  bedrog :  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  Bn  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  ifcc. 

221  Kefn  amwlch  :  p.  D.  vychan  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  &c.  .   tsOO  . 

225  llyn — Dol  y  penrryn :  5f.  llwyd  apD.  ap  ]f,  ap  ho:  &c. 

226  Malltraeth — trefveilir,  trefdraeth:  O.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  J.  &c. 

227  Kdwon — sir  von :  p.  ho:  y  varf  ap  9a  &c. 

228  Tal  ebolion  :  "].  goch  ap  mad:  ap  Enion  ap  R.  &c.* 
Penllech :  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  ftn  ap  Morgan  &c. 

229  lleyn — hefn  amwlch :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 
Bodwrda — A.  Daron :  J.  bodwrda  mab  "].  ap  Mred:  v'n  &c. 

230  llyn — heidio :  D.  llwyd  ap  Ho:  ap  ftn  ap  Mred:  &c. 

„       karec  :  Rob:  karec  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  &c. 

231  it,  dy  gwnin :  W.  ap  gr:  ap  W.  ap  J.  karec  &c. 

Bryn  kroes  :  To:  ap  Rob:  ap  Ric:  trygarn  ap  bleddyn  ap  J,  (alive 
25  March  1361)  ap  kyn:  vychan 

233  Segrwyd :  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  'Jolyn  &c.f 

234  Elsmer  :  Tho:  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  deio  &c.  [march 
Rvthvn :  g.  Rob:  ap  W.  Dovrs  =  V5  huw  ap  Gr:  ap  R.  o  Gastell 

235  y  ddwyffrwd — maesbroli :  J.  ap  D.  ap  ftn  bach  &c. 

Maenan :  Gr:  kyffin  person  11.  rwst  '  morys  kyffin  ap  syr  D.  &c. 

237  Vwch  gwyrvai — sir   G.  arvon :  W.  ap  harri  ap  W.  ap  D.  ap 

Jaukin  [alive  22  Henri  vi]  ap  ho:  ap  tegwared  <fec.f 

238  hotingam  :  Edw:  grae  ap  Edw:  grae  ap  J.  grae  &c.J 

239  Jsnal — y  dreficen  :  Ric:  hanmer  ap  D.  H.  ap  Ric:  H.  &c. 

240  Keisstoyn :  }.  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  ftn  &c. 
242  -K.  brynn  mair  :  Ric:  ap  morys  ap  O.  ap  ftn  &c. 

244  Kwellyn — JL.  tonda  :  W.  ap  ho:  ap  ftn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

245  Ric:  Einws  ap  Tho:  E.  ap  J.  E.  ap  Einws  ap  'Jowkws  &c. 

246  Syr  J.  konwy  ap  syr  J.  K.  ap  Edw:  konwy  &c. 

brycheinioc  ac  yn  tario  yn  llvndain  .  W.  bayham  nev  bayauam 
Einion  oedd  yr  jawn  lienw  ap  J.  baunan  &c. 

247  Maelor — gwrexam:  J.  wynn  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  'J. 

248  Machynliaith  :  J.  ap  D.  lloyd  ap  O.  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

249  kaer  sws  :  Morys  ap  ho:  ap  morys  ap  f .  &c. 

JL.  idlos :  Morgan  gwynn — kais  yn  iach  siankin  gwynn 

250  Dyved:  Aleth  brenhin  Dyved  ap  henri  ap  kad:  &c. 
Mechain:  Mad:  ap  Einion  ap  mad:  ap  gwalloc  &c. 

25 1  Elsmer  :  George  li  ap  Ric:  ley  &c. 

252  IL.  gelynin — bromi  y  foel :  W.  ap  j(.  ap  D.  ap  Rys  &c. 

253  Hanmer — Halchdyn :  Tho:  Doraoc  ap  Tho:  ap  To:  hen  .  ^575  , 

254  Harri  iarll  derbi  ap  Edw:  iarll  derbi  &c. 

259  talarn — JL.  silyn 

p.  Rob:  ap  ).  ap  ho:  ap  morys  =  Lewys  a  moi-ys 

260  Edw:  iarll  ystafford  ap  hari  j.  Stafford  &c. 

261  7arll  Rutland  ap jarll  Riltland  &c. 

262  JL.  annerch  yraiir :  Lewys  ap  D.  ap  Wm:  o  vochnant  &c. 

263  JL.  vihnngel  y  pennant  ■•  W.  ap  ).  ap  Rys  ap  Tudvr  &c. 
266  Maelor:  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  dd:  ap  gutyn  &c. 

266  Edw:  ap  Mathav  ap  D.  ap  ho:  vachan  &c.- 

sir  Dinbych :  J.  milton  ap  Roger  M.  ap  D.  M,  &c. 


'  q'  llyfr  tre  veilir.  t  gorffen  yn  y  llyfr  liarpgasgl  o  law  G.  H, 

J  medd  syr  Edw:  Mannsel  marehog. 


WILLIAM  LLYN  AND  OTHERS.  889 

268  Aber  y  pwll:  Mr  Morys  ap  W.  vachan  ap  J.  ap  W.  <fcc. 

269  JL.  vair  Dolhayarn  :  Rich:  ap  Rob:  ap  Mred;  ap  grono  &c. 

270  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Bys  Gryc 

271  Moelas — Juraethoc  :  Rob:  wjnn  ap  kadwaladr  ap  morys  geUiin  &c, 

272  31alpas :  syr  Roiidl  y  bruton  ap  Rondl  brnton  &c. 

273  Maelor  is  hoed :  J.  Rodon  ap  J.  Eodon  ap  J.  R.  &c. 

274  IL.  Elivy  :  VV.  jor  Esgob  ap  syr  huw  ap  gr:  &e.     (1573-1600) 

278  IL.  wdden,  Poicys :  Wmffre  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  bedo  &c. 

279  Powys  mochnant :  pirs  lloyd  ap  ho:  lloyd  ap  D.  &c. 

280  IL.  drillo  :  W.  Wmffre  M.A.  yn  kadw  ysgol  yngrroes  osswallt 

281  Edeirnion  :  p.  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  j  giwn  llwyd  &c. 

282  Y glynn  :  Rob:  wynn  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Rys  &c. 

283  Gwraic  Huw  ap  Tho:  Madryn  =  Marged  &c.  .  7,574  • 

286  Brynbo :  p.  Gr:  ap  Edw:  ap  Morgan  ap  Dd:  &c. 

287  Gioern  fawr :  Rob:  wynn  ap  J.  ap  Rys  wynn  &c.* 

291  Tiroes  osswallt :  J.  trevor  vachan  ap  J.  trevor  &c. 

292  Melwern  :  Roger  thorns  ap  niklas  thorns  ap  Roger  thorns  &c. 
Shelvoc :  yr  aer  hynaf  o  thorns  yw  Nicholas  th.  ap  sieffre  &c. 

293  Maesbrivk — y  mwythic :  D"'  Lewys  Gr:  ap  Hn  ap  D.  &c. 

294  Horsle — gressff'ordd :  To:  ap  To:  ap  ho:  ap  I).  &c. 

295  IL.  guric  :  Hn  ap  D.  ap  J.  ddv  ap  Uwn  ap  J.  &c. 

„  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  Richart  ap  D.  ap  ^er:  &c. 

„  p.  ftn  ap  J.  ap  ph:  =  Rys  /  U.  /  Jankyn  8cc. 

„  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  Rissiart  ap  D.  &c. 

297  Trerdelyn  Maesyfaid :  D.  ap  Rys  ap  mevric  ap  mred;  &c, 

298  Pirs  pilstwn,  Risiart  Pilstwn  &c. 

299  Tref  gynon  :  To:  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  J.  &c. 

300  iL,  wn'» ;  To:  ap  J.  ap  to:  ap  Hn  ap  J.  &c. 

JL.  idloes :  syr  J.  a  13.  ap  W.  ap  Rys  goch  &c. 

301  Gressffordd :  Lewys  ap  ho:  ap  Jankin  ap  7olyn  lloyd  &c. 

302  Plaes  swydd  ymwythic :  W.  lyghdon  ap  W.  lyghdon  &c. 

303  Gwrddym:  p.  J.  brochdyn  =  Rondyl  /W./  J.  &c. 

304  Iiaer  :  Tho:  (M.A.)  ap  Morys  ap  syr  W.  &c. 

305  Towyn  :  p.  Jankyn  ap  )er:  =  Ho:  /J./D.  &c. 
307  Nannav  :  p.  Gr:  nannav  o  Jan  V3  wmffre  &c. 

Kors  y  gedol :  p.  Rys  vachan  ap  W.  =  Gr:  /  Ric:  &c. 

309  IL.  wyiliiig  ym  hoioys :  Gr:  ap  Reinallt  ap  Mred:   &c.  1.575  . 

310  Trefalvn  :  p.  J.  Trevor  =  J.  Trevor  heddyw  15T5  j  Rondl  &c. 

311  Maen  twroe — hendref  y  mvr  :  p.  Rys  wynn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

312  Traws  vynydd :  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  Rydderch  &c. 
Dyffryn  klwyd :  To:  ap  R.  wyn  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 
IL.  Danwc :  Wmffre  ap  D.  ap  To:  ap  D.  &c. 
Pennarth,  llambedr,  ardudwy  :  D.  llwyd  ap  O.  ap  to:  &c. 

313  Dryll  y  pobydd :  Ric:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  mred:  &c. 

314  p.  Einion  ap  gr:  ap  ftn  ap  kyn:  —  Elissav  &c. 
318  John  devddwr  ap  Hn  ap  Tomas  ap  Hn  &c, 

320-1  Gwlgre — Tegaingl :  Edw:  ap  morgan  ap  to:  ap  Edw:  ap  gr:  &c. 
324  y  fflint .-  To:  salbri  ap  To:  vachan  ap  To:  ap  To:  ap  syr  To:  ap 

Tomas  hen  .  mam  To:  heddyw  IS^d  =  katrin 
S25  IL.frothen:  To:  person  ap  Gr:  vachan  &c.t 
326  Yr  havod  garegoc,  Nanmor :  huw  ap  lewys  ap  morys  &c. 

Nanmor :  Gr:  ap  W.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 

Pwllhelic  nev  pwllheli :  Edw:  ap  ho:  ap  mad:  ap  ho:  &c. 


*  hopi  0  gard  Bobart    ?  wern  or  wernfach. 

t  "  He  was  '  parsou '  of  Llanvrothen  in  1561  "— W.  W.  E.  W. 

y  98430.  ^  ^ 


890  PENIIRTH  MANUSCRIPT  139  11, 

327  Y  dref  newydd :  ^arlys  ap  Ric:  ap  to:  ap  Rys  &c. 

328  Deav  :  syr  hari  wgou  pioedd  bryngest 

329  JL.  s.ffraid  ymechain :  J.  ap  syr  Rys  ap  J.  ap  Hn  &c. 
p.  To:  hanmer  ap  Wmffrey  =  To:  ac  Elis  &c. 

331  syr  arthur  manaring  ap  syr  Ric:  manaring  &c. 

332  Mortyn  :  syr  andro*  korbed  ap  Roger  korbet  &c. 

333  Halchdvn,  Hanmer :  Rob:  Uoyd  or  gart  ap  J.  lloyd  &c. 
335  aber  bechan,  kydewain  :  Tomas  ap  Rys  ap  morys  ap 

Ovvain  ap  ]feuan  blaenav  &c. 

337  kaer  Einioti — yr  hen  Jarth  :  Rob:  ap  "].  ap  O.  &c. 

338  keri — y  drefor  :  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  ^.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

339  Tref  esgob  :  Ric:  brochdyn  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  &c. 

340  IL.  Jestin  yn  lleyn  :  To:  ap  D.  ap  Tomas  &e. 

341  kriked:  D.  kinast  ap  Elis  k.  ap  Roger  k.  &c. 

342  ILvnden  :  Rob:  Ed:  or  gart  ap  morys  ap  Edw:  &c. 

343  V  tyle  glas :  W,  seissyllt  lord  tressrer  ap  Ric.  Seissyllt  &c. 

344  Bangor  y  maelor  :  J.  ac  Edw:  hanmer  ap  J.  ap  Wmffre  &c. 

345  Siomley  :  S'  Hiiglie  Siomleyt  ap  S"'  Hugh  Siomley 

346  Penmark  ymorganwc  :  To:  bawdrem  ap  W.  b.  &c.     ,  1oT§  , 

347  Traws  vynydd :  W.  lloyd  ap  J.  ap  Edw:  ap  gr:  &c. 
llvndain  :  J.  yatiwart  ap  Ric:  ystiwart  &c. 

348  y  tallwyn,  IL.  gybi — Gwely  giogan,  tref  lasvryn :  Ric:   ap 

O.  ap  Rys  vachan  ap  ho:  gwynedd  &o.. 

349  graeanoc,  hlynnoc  :  R.  wynn  ap  morys  ap  ho:  &c. 
Owrtyn ;  To:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  Jankin  &c. 

350  Vvionydd :  Gr:  ap  Rob:  ap  ho:  ap  mad:  &c. 
Powys  ;  J.  powys  ap  Reinallt  ap  J.  vachan  Ac. 

351  JL.  dyssitl,  gwern  y  buarth :  D.  ap  dd:  ap  -f.  ap  D.  &c. 

353  „         Edw:  ap  Rys  wynn  ap  to:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

354  Moris  ap  tho:  ap  Jankin  ap  Rob:  ap  Gr:  &c. 

355  Ki.  gvric — tylnly  graic  :  p.  Rys  ap  morys  ap  Hn  &c.     .  i373  . 
357  keri :  Morys  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  mred:  ap  mevric  &c. 

360  arwystl;  J.  glynn  ap  morys  ap  ]fankin  glynn  &c. 

361  keri:  Ric:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

362  „      Mathav  ap  morys  ap  to:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 
362-3  „      kefn  y  beren  :  Morys  ap  J.  ap  Rys  &c.  heddyw  1SJ5 

364  Dolforyn,  betws  kydewain:  To.  ap  R.  goch  ap  D.  &c. 

365  iL.  dysul  [Mont:]  p.  mred:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  R.  &c.     15Jo  . 
367    Vr  edit  goch,  IL.  idloes  :  ]f.  ap  O.  ap  Hn  ap  O.  &c. 

369  JL.  gvric — nant  dv  :  J  ankin  ap  iln  ap  morys  &c. 

372  keri — Hiw  vachaethlon  :  Hugh  ap  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  ^.  &c. 

373  I'evddwr :  p.  Ric:  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

374  Meirionydd:  Mred:  ap  R.  ap  Sn  ap  Rys  ap  O.  &c. 

375  IL.  idloes,  kefn  pennarth  :  Morgan  ap  Hn  ap  morys  &c. 

377  IL.  guric  :  Jankin  morys  ap  Jankyn  goch  &c. 

„  Jankin  ap  Hn  ap  morys  &c. 

378  Keri — y  ddol  wastad:  p.  Ric:  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  Rys  &c.  1515 . 

379  Arwystli — II.  ddinam :  D.  ap  Edw:  ap  morys  ap  Hn  he. 
hynllaith :  p.  D.  kyffin  o  gatrin  V5  Ric:  ap  Roger  &c. 

380  kaer  sws :  0.  voel  /  einion  ddistain  /  a  chynddelw  =  p.  ]fer,  ap 

gwrgenav  &c. 

381  3/  main — meifod:  p.  Gr:  ap  O.  ap  lewys  &c. 
383  ymtvythic :  }effre  Johns  ap  Rob:  ofEeiriad  &c. 

884  Maenol    gr:  — brynn  adda :  huw  Bangor  ap  lewys  bangor  &c. 

*  «  SherifiE  of  Shropshire,  1551."— W.  W.  E.  W. 

f  "  Sir  H.  Cholmondley  was  born  1852,  knighted  15  88,  died  1601."— AV  W.  E.  W, 


WILLIAM  LLYN  AND  OTHERS.  891 

385  yT  tmjddgrvc  :  Grdff  ^euanes  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  R,  &c, 
ysgeifioc :  J.  ap  hi"iw  ap  To:  ap  mwymlec  &c . 

390  Bodgadle,  IL.    V'el  y machallaeth  :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  lloyd  &c, 

391  JLyn  :  Rob:  ap  W.  ap  Gr:  lloyd  &c. 

JLcyn  :  Eolant  ap  To:  ap  liiiw  ap  niorys  ap  gr:  &c, 

392  Pirs  hop  ap  olfir  hop  ap  jfankin  liop  &c, 
John4iwid  ap  Ric:  hwrd  ap  J.  H.  &c. 

393  Ric:  ap  J.  ap  To:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

394  Wj.  llyfni:  Huw  meistr  of  art  ap  Robert  ap  Edw:  &c. 

396  Table  of  the  desc^  of  Tibod  by  (1)  Ho:  ap  Tudiir  ap  grouo, 

(2)  ]f.  v'n  ap  5f.  gethin 
398  Maelor  saesnec,  wUynton  :  Eondl  lloyd  ap  Rondl  lloyd  &c. 
*403  Thomas  arg:  esgob  JL.  elwy  [1561-73]  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  &c, 
411  Halchdyn  yn  Hanmer  :  Rob:  llwyd  ap  Rob:  Uwyd  ap  J.  ap  I).  &c, 

415  Pennal,  kyiii:  ystymanner :  Tho:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  goch  ap  gr:  &c. 

416  Pennegoes — Fennrros  :  Eyddj  ap  gr:  ap  morys  ap  D.  &c. 

417  „  Hn  ap  D.  ap  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  &c. 

418  Guttyn  Cocb  &c.     Table  in  the  hand  of  Rob:  Vaughan. 


MS.  139III  =  Heu.  MS.  112,  Part  xii.  Index  to  Parts  i,  and  ii. 
Paper;  8^  x  5^  inches;  42  pages  repaired  throughout;  ia  the  auto- 
graph of  William  JLfn  ;  strongly  bound  in  calf. 


MS.  140  =  Hen.  206.  Pkdigekes  of  South  Wales  Families. 
Paper;  8^  x  5f  inches;  388  pages,  repaired  throughout  at  the  bottom 
inside  corner,  where  the  text  is  not  infrequently  imperfect ;  writtenl 
for  the  most  part  by  William  ILfa,  but  a  contemporary  hand  runs 
through  the  greater  part  of  the  MS.,  occupying  sometimes  a  page  or  a 
portion  of  a  page,  and  sometimes  a  few  pages.  The  date  of  pages 
8-357  is,  inferentially,  earlier  than  1569;  that  of  pages  372-77,  by 
R.  T.  is  1673  ;  and  that  of  pages  358-67,  by  a  still  different  hand,  is 
probably  somewhat  later;  in  old  leather  binding  with  a  new  back. 

There  are  t\vo  or  three  marginalia  in  the  hand  of  Eys  Cain. 
3,  6,  &  387  Index  to  place  names  in  order  of  pages  by  ?  Kob:  Vaughan. 
4-5  Ow:  ap  Kich:  is  appointed  to  pay  Edw:  Oxwicke  &c.  .  .  .  xxv"  if  &o. 

8  Henwav  y  xxiv  camp :  10  gwrolgamp  /  10  /  mabolgamp  &c. 

9  Glynn  nedd :  R.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  .Jankin  ap  R.  ap  ttn  &c. 
vwch  aeron :  y  D'  Vychan  J.  ap  D.  ap  R. 

10  kaer  vyrddin  :  arg:  Tomas  prior  k.  Vyrddin  ap  Morys  ap  0.  &c. 

12  Ttr  givyr :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  melyn  ap  Glm  gam  &c. 

13  Ty  ddewi — mynyw :  Mastr  J.  talai  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  ).  &c. 

14  Gwernan  :  m.astr  huw  ap  Mred:  ap  To:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 

17  JL.  dybia,  Js  kenen  :  syr  J.  gvvynn  prelad  ap  J.  ap  henri  &c. 

20  Herast,  keintyn :  Siarlys  vychan  ap  Jams  v'n  ap  water  V.  &o. 
Brycheinioc :  syr  Ric:  vychan  ap  To:  v'n  ap  watkyn  V.  &c. 

21  Gwent :  syr  water  herbart  ap  wiliam  arg:  herbart  &c. 

„        Morgan  ap  D.  ap  glm  ap  D.  ap  glm  &c. 
„        W.  ap  J.  ap  Rosser  ap  J.  ap  glm  &c, 


*  Pp.  403-10  belongto  MS.  138  =  Hen:  MS.  Ill,  and  should  come  at  the  end  of  it. 
t  This  MS.  is  evidently  not  a  compilation  but  a  direct  copy  of  some  other  MS. 
U  the  writing  is  clear  and  fairly  uniform  throughout. 

P  P  2 


892  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   140. 

21  Gtvent;  Eobart  hopkyn  ap  ho:  ap  tomas  ap  gltn  &c. 

„        D.  ap  gtm  ap  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  gtm  &c. 
D.  ap  ho:  vychan  ap  Eoeger  ap  J.  ap  grono  &c. 

Brycheinioc  : 

22  J.  ap  gim  vychan  ap  J.  ap  gitn  ap  ftn  &c 

Jankin  hafart  ap  thomas  ap  gtm  hafart  &e.  • 

24  Hn  ap  morgan  ap  D.  gam  ap  tin  ap  ho:  v'n  &c. 

26  Tho:  ap  ^ankyn  ap  Mad:  ap  Eisiart  fawr  &c, 

27  Edw:  ap  gtm  ap  J.  ap  Morgan 

28  J.  walbi  ap  Jankyn  walbi  ap  W.  walbi  &c, 

29  Hopkyn  awbre  ap  Jankyn  awbre  ap  morgan  &c. 

30  J,  ap  Roger  ap  J.  ap  'j.  ap  ffylip  ap  ho:  gam  &c. 

31  Ho:  ap  Morgan  or  Sorest  ap  Res  ap  Morgan  &c. 

Gtm  ap  Morgan  ap  E.  ap  ho:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  trahayarn  «&c. 

32  Ho:  ap  gtm  ap  ho:  ap  gtm  dew  ap  Ho:  ap  tin  &e. 
36  To:  ap  Morgan  ap  O.  ap  mred:  ap  Ric:  &c. 

Gwent :  Syr  Water  herbart  ap  argl:  W.  H.  jarll  peufro  &c. 
Nant  bran  :  Eic:  ap  Eic:  ap  E.  ap  Eoger  ap  J.  &c. 

38  ,,  gtm  ap  ho:  ap  morgan  ap  D.  ap  ho:  &c. 

39  kastell  gwis :  aye  J.  wgon  ap  m^' J.  wgon  hir  ap  syr  Hari  W.  &c. 
41  Brycheinioc:  tin  ap  Ho:  v'n  tad  syr  D.  gam,  alas  yn  Eginkwrfc, 

and  his  descendants. 
46  Watgyn  vychan  ap  Tho:  ap  Eoetsier  vychan  &c. 
49  Glynn  aeron :  Eydd}  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  gr:  voel  ap  gr:  &c. 

52  haer  ivedros  :  J),  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  tin  &c. 

53  Vwch  kerddin :  Hn  ap  gtm  llwyd  ap  gtm  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 

55  Myfenydd:  Kad:  ogarroc  ap  kad:  vychan  ap  kad:  fawr  &e. 

56  Sir  Aber  teifi :  p.  tin  ap  kad:  o  garroc  =  Eys  dv  /  5f.  dv  &c. 

57  jf«  herddin :  J.  ap  tin  ap  D.  o  gorws  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
y  Deav :  D.  bwl  ap  gtm  ap  gtm  ap  Eys  Ac. 
Gwidigada  :  Merched  Henri  ap  gtm  ap  tho:  vychan  &c. 

68  y  Deav :  Tanglwyst  V3  D.  voethus  ap  trahayarn  lluyd  &c. 

59  karedigion  :  Gr:  ap  Eiridap  Bdel  vrych  ap  predvr  peisswyn  &c. 
Abergwili:  Mastr  W.  ap  f.  ap  Mred:  ap  gtm  ap  B.  &c. 

60  ky dwell:  p.  Ho:  ap  gwallter  ap  gr:  ap  ]f.  &c. 

62  Bvellt :  Eikert  ap  Einion  ap  gr:  ap  Eikert  &c. 

63  Aber  teifi:  Siankin  apgr:  ap  gtm  ap  D.  ap  J.  llwyd  o  gilgaran 
Bvellt:  Eikert  ap  Einion  ap  kad:  ap  kadwallon  &c. 

64  Trvm  saran :  D.  vychan  ap  ho:  vychan  ap  Jankin  v'n  &c. 

65  Brynny  heirdd:  J.  ap  Morys  ap  0.  ap  gr:  ap  nikolas  &c. 
Yrryder  wenn :  Gr:  vychan  ap  jankin  ap  ho:  v'n  &c. 

66  Gelli  las,glann  llochwr,  kornowllon :  W.  ap  Henri  ap  jankin  &c. 

67  Ystrad  tywi :  M'  J.  ap  henri  ap  E.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 

69  M''  W.  ap  ]f.  ap  Mred:  ap  gtm  ap  E.  ap  aron  v'n  &c. 

Mynyw :  M''  Lewya  kantor  mynyw  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  gr:  dew  &c. 
71  Merched  ttn  ap  D.  rrvddlan  &c. 

TL.  dyfaeloc:  D.  ap  J.  ap  henri  ap  ]f.  ap  gr:  &c. 

73  Brycheinioc,  glynn  tawy :  Trahayarn  tew  ap  morgan  tra:  Sot. 
k.  llion  arr  wysc :  O.  wann  ior  k.  llion  ap  gr:  ap  ^er: 

74  Y  gelli  ber  yngwavn  llwc :  J.  ap  E.  (ap  ph:  ap  Roesser  &c.) 
76  Massalec,  tref  ddegyr  „      M"  W.*  ap  J,  ap  syr  Morgan  &c. 

,,        gwern  y  klepa :  Ph:  ap  W.  ap  Morgan  ap  J.  &c. 


*  "  His  will  was  dated  5  Augst.  1568,  &  proved  27  June  1569."     Oct:  morgan. 


WILLIAM  LLYN  AND  OTHERS.  893 

77'  Gwavn  llwc :  J.  kemais  on-  began  ap  J.  K.  ap  Jams  k.  &c. 
IL,  letriv  :  Rol:  kemais  ap  Jhou  ap  'Jankin  ap  D.  kemais  &c. 

78  Given  llwc,  ykastell  newydd :  J.  ap  Iiairi  kemais 

79  G.  llwc,  y  krindai  „         Jhon  ap  To:  ap  Edw;  ap  ho:  &c. 
&0       ,,          y  maes  glas  :  To:  konias  ap  morgan  k.  ap  W.  k.  &c. 

hyfoeth  mred :  — M"^  Rolant  ap  morgant  ap  tho:  &c. 

„  hod  ivellde  :  M''  Edmwnt  ap  morgant  ap  tlio  &c. 

81  Gicent  is  k.,  syr  T.  ap  morgan  o  benn  y  koed  (a  11.  ystarn) 
Sanghcnydd  ym.org annicc :  Edw:  ap  lewis  ap  Ric:  gwynn  &c. 

82  „  hefn  mabli :  D.  kemais  ap  J.  ap  )ankin  &c. 
Aler  Hodni :  ph:  ap  J.  ap  glm  ap  D.  ap  watgyn  &c. 
Suing  Henydd — helli  gaer:  Mathe  ap  E.  vycban  ap  R.  &c. 

84  Morganwc :  p.  gr:  ap  il.  ap  D.  ap  gtm  ap  meilir  &c. 

85  Sir  vynnioy  :  syr  ^arls  lierbart  o  droya  ap  syr  W.  H.  &c. 

86  is  hennen :  Lewys  ap  morgan  v'n  ap  morgan  ap  K.  &c. 
Glann  tyioi :  Lewys  ap  Rankin  ap  J.  ap  R.  v'n  &c. 

87  IL.  dybie :  1).  ap  J.  gwynn  ap  morgan  ap  gtm  &c. 

88  kef II  is  kenen  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  morgan  ap  gwallter  &c. 

89  Mallaen  —  llwyn  hot,  JL.ymddyfri :  Rydd5  ap  R.  vychan  apgim 

90  Hirfryn — Aher  krychan :  D.  gwyn  ap  ho:  ap  Rydd}  &c. 

92   Ystrad  gilerchan  ■■  Rydd)  gwynn  ap  D.  goch  ap  Rydd}  ap  R.  &c. 
9.3  Js  kennen,  IL.  arthne  tref  x^wch  givinon :  J.  ap  jf.  ap  gtm  &c. 

95  Mallaen — IL.  lorda  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  J,  ap  gr:  ap  nikolas  &c. 
IL.  ymddyfri :  Eiuion  ap  R.  ap  Einion  ap  gim  gwyn  &c.* 

96  Ketheinioc — IL.  gathen :  Ilarri  ap  R.  ap  D.  hir  ap  morgan  Ac. 

97  jfs  genen — gwerngib,  IL.  Deilo  :  J.  apHarriap  Rydd}  ap  To:  &c. 

98  „         IL.  dybie,  IL.  deilo  a  glann  tyici :  W.  ap  Ph:  ap  W. 

99  IL.  Edi:  R.  ap  gwlhaved  ap  Einion  ap  Uowarch  ap  mor  &c. 
102-3      „       Gr:  ap  Rys  ap  syr  gr:  ap  syr  R.  ap  Tho:  ap  Gr:  ap 

nikolas  &c.  Merched  Gr:  ap  nik:  =  gwenllian  &c. 

105  Kaervyrddin  :  To:  ap  J.  ap  gtm  ap  ]f.  ap  Eneas  &c. 
IL.  gennych,  kyrnowllon :  Morys  ap  O.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 

106  hydiceli,brynny  groes  yn  IL.  elli,karnoicllon  :  O.  ap  Jankin  &c. 
108   Tir  Gwyr  :  O.  a  D.  gwynn  =  meib  Morgan  ap  J.  gwynn  &c. 

1 10  Dinbych  y  pysgod :  Harri  bared  ap  W.  bared  &c. 

110,  172  Fenn  bref,  lledr\  ychen  :  W.  ap  Ho:  ap  Jankin  v'n  o  gydweli 

111  IL.  arthne:  D.  ap  J.  ap  harri  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Jer:  &c. 

113  Js  kennen— y  bettws :  D.  ap  gim  ap  Jankin  ap  J.  gwynn  &c. 
ILethr  kadfan  IL.  gathen,  hjtheinioc :  D.  ap  J.  ap  gtm  ap  To:  &c. 
115  IL.  lloivddoc,  gwidi  gada:  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  ftn  &c. 

117  Bodlwsgivm,  kidweli  :  Harri  Morgan  ap  W.  M.  iorlL.  deilo  &c. 

118  ILech  dwnniX  :  Morys  ap  R.  ap  morys  ap  O.  ap  gr:  ap  nikolas  &c. 

119  IL.  gathen  :  W  R,  tho:  ap  syr  W.  tho:  ap  Rydd}  ap  R.  &c. 

120  Talgarth:  J.  vain  ap  To:  fain  ap  J.  vain  &c. 

Taly  sarn,  sir  Aher  tcifi :  Huv  ap  Hn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Kn  &c. 

121  Pentref  Jeuan,  sir  bennfro :  To:  ap  mastr  O.  ap  syr  Siams  &c. 

122  Arglwydd  Towyn,  J.  ap  R,  ap  Rydd3  ap  Rys  ap  Mred:  &c, 

123  Pant  How  el :  syr  siams  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  To:  ap  gr:  &c. 

124  ystrad  toii-i:  J.  ap  henri  ap  R.  ap  "j.  ap  gr:  &c. 

125  Maenor  gain — kastell  moel :  Rys  Ryd  ap  nikolas  Ryd  &c. 

126  Kayo—IL.  sawel :  J.  ap  ho:  ap  J.  ap  Rys  ap  morgan  &c. 


*llyfrbrechfa.     See  Pen.  MS.  131.  .         .     ,  , 

t  Altered  into  "  llethr  ychen  "  which  is  given  m  the  ordnance  map  as  "  Llettyr 

J  Kidweli—"  y  plus  pennnf  o  dad  bri/nn  y  heirdd." 


894  PENIAllTH  MiNUSCRIPT  140. 

12Y  Kayo — JL.  ^aice/ ;  morgan  ap  To:  ap  Morgan  vychau  &c. 

128  Rydodyn  yngliayo :  D.  ap  ho:  ap  morgan  ap  Rys  &c. 

129  IL.  Edi — ynys  llochwr :  W.  ap  Henri  ap  Jankin  &c. 

130  JLadrenior,  IL.  D.  talyhont :  W.  ap  morgan  ap  R.  Uwyd  &c. 
plus  Gwilais,  JL.  deilo :  D.  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  To:  ap  R.  &c, 

131  kaervyrddin  ;  Gr:  higwri  ap  hiiw  higwn  ap  J.  H.  &c. 

132  Gwidigada :    merched  Henri  ap  gtm  ap  To:  vychan  &c. 
135  Bonedd  gwyr  ky dwell :  M'"  O.  miliar  IL.  ysmael  ap  gwallter  &c. 
137  Kydiceli :  p.  Ho:  ap  gwallter  ap  gr:  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

142  p.  Henii  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  ttn  voethvs  &c, 

p.  Bledri  o  gynwyl  Elwad  —  Rys,  Rydd)  a  Riwallon  &c. 

143  Tair  merch  Gr:  ap  J.  sais  ap  Einion  &c. 

144  p.  Einion  ap  gr:  ap  J.  =  D.  /gr:/ac  Jeuan  &c. 
vtvch  aeron :  p.  J.  ap  Rys  goch  ap  J.  ap  Rys  &c. 

145  Ky dwelt :  p.  ac  wyron  gr:  ap  Hn  ap  gwrgant  ap  kad:  fawr  &c. 
146p.gr:    ap  kad:  vawr  =  ^er.  goch  /  Ho:  /  henri  /  gwallter  sais /a 

dav  Ruiiydd  oedd  ddav  Efell— vn  a  roed  yw  ragv  at  gr:  gethin  a  ffiin 
ddaeth  adref  Ef  a  elwid  gr:  yethin,  a  ffan  aeth  i  loegr  i  galwyd  ei  Gr: 
Dwnn.     Dwnn  yw  kethin  ynghymraeo 

p.  Trahayarn  ap  Gr:  ap  Kad:  vychan  (p.  156)  ap   f.  ap  kad: 

147  p.  ^finkin  vychan  =  ho:  ap  'Jankyn  o  benbref  &g,       [vawr  &c. 

148  p.  ac  wyron  Gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  kad:  vychan  &c. 

152  p.  O.  ap  Rob:  dicim  =  To:  /  gr:  /  elen  &c. 

p.  0.  ap  Mred:  ap  Henri  dwnn  =  Harri  Dwnn  o  bictwn  &c. 

153  p.  syr  S.  dwnn  ap:  gr:  ap  Mred:  =  syr  Edw:/Syr  gr:/SyrS.  d. 
p.  Henri  ap  gr:  dwnn  ap  Mred:  =  Annas  g.  W.  jjerod  &c. 

157  Brycheinioc :  p.  Trahayarn  tew  ap  morgan  o  wladus  &c. 
Trefy  Tier :  p.  M'  Harri  ap  T.  v'n  o  ann  ffrogtwnn  &c. 

158  p.  Ric:  herbart  o  gerric  ho:  &c. 

]  59  p.  syr  W.  Herbart  o  gowlbrwk  o  sian  V3  W.  gr:  or  penryn  &c. 
160  Gwavn  llwc :  p.  D.  ap  Morgan    ap  ho:  o  Elnor  V3  Rob: 
rraglan  o  lys  veirionydd  \_sic\  a  vorgannwc  [«e] 
Gwcn  llwc.—penn  karn ;  W.  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

163  Merthyr  kynoc:  Watkyn/ J.  =  p.  Roesser  v'n  o  Dalgarth 
h.  llion  ar  wysc :  Rotssier  ap  Morgan  ap  Sion  &c. 

Sir  Vynnwy :  Syrr  Siarls  Herbart  o  droyaf  ap  syr  W.  &c. 
p.  gr:  ap  fin  vwythys  =  Rys  /  sion  /  sioned  &c.  [niklas  &c. 

164  p.  Elidir  ddv  =  gr:  / R.  llwyd  /  Ho:  /  ^.  /  Mred:  /  gim,  a  Ph:  tad 

168  Js  henncii,  Tref  gastell :  p.  J.  llwyd  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  Mred:  &c. 

169  ,,  Lewys  ap  Morgan  vychan  &c. 

170  „         p.  John  Harri  ap  rrydd)  ap  To:  ap  gim  &c. 

171  p.  To:  ap  Itn  ap  Ow=meredydd  &c. 

174  aeth  mj  Mevric  trwyn  gida  D.  bras  o  lathlvd 

176  p.  Syrr  Harri  wgon  =  S.  wgon  hir/ Harri  \V.  o  Irengest  &c. 

179  Aber  marlais :  syr  Rys  ap  To:  ap  Gr:  ap  Nikolas  &c. 

182  Aber  gwili :  Lewys  ap  To:  ap  J:  ap  R.  ap  ^.  &c. 

187  Gwent :  Syr  To:  ap  Morgan  ap  7ankin  ap  ph:  &c. 

„         M'  S.  ap  syr  To:  ap  [RJob:  ap  Mred:  ap  ph:  Ac, 

188  Ystradffin :  R.  ap  W.  ap  To:  goch  ap  Hn  &c. 

190  Kydweli—TL.  gynnwr,  penn  y  ddevlwyn:    To:  dv  ap  gim 

192  p.  D.  ap  To:  ap  R.  o  elen  vj  To:  dv  &c.         [ap  To:  v'n  &c. 

194  Y  pevtvn  ymrycheinioc' :  ]f.  ap  gtm  vychan  &c. 

195  Evas:  To:  ap  J.  ap  gim  ap  ho:  ap  gr:  ap  seisyllt  &c. 

196  Kae  Ho: — Brycheinioc:  ]).  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  Roesser  ap  Ric:  Ac. 
pym  merclied  bleddyn  vachan  &c. 

197  fs  hennen  Tref  gastell :  p,  S.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  R,  ap  gim 


WILLUM  LLYN  AND  OTHERS.  895 

198  Barwn  koedmor:  Rissiart  mortimer  ap  0,  M.  ap  Hn  &c. 
Karedigion:  D.  llwyd  ap  ^.  ap  siankin  ap  E.  vychan  &c. 

199  vwch  aei-on ;  Morgan  op  jfankyn  ap  jfevan  &c. 

200  E^.  gathen  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  gim  ap  To:  vychan  &c. 

201  TL,  arthne :  Jaukin  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  gim  vychan  &e. 

202  IL,  ddaroc  :  D.  ap  Henri  ap  siankin  ap  Henri  &c. 

203  Gogerddan:  J.  ap  Ris't   ap  R.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Rydds 

207  Y  gilvach  wenn :  siankin  ap  D.  ap  D.  ap  ho:  ap  R.  &c. 

208  kastell  Hoioel:  To:  ap  D.  ap  Hn  llwyd  ap  D.  &c. 

209  Pennbryn  aher  ynant :  Lewys  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

210  Pant  ystreimon  :  Ryddj  ap  D.  ap  Rydd}  ap  Toraas  &c. 

211  Aber  Teiji:  J.  ap  siams  ap  Gr:  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  To:  &c. 

212  Ty  Ddeivi:  argl:  Risiart  Esgob  dewi  ap  D.  ap  grono  &c. 

213  y  kilgwyn  ;  J:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  D.  &c. 

214  Ystrad  merthur — Kydweli:  Gr:  Dwnn  ap  0.  D.  ap  Rob:  D,  &c. 
216   Yradur :  M.'  W.  Mathav  ap  syr  siors  ap  syr  W.  &c. 

218  JLiwel:  Ho:  gwynn  ap  To;  ap  Rydd}  ap  R.  &c 

222  Aber  Taxmj  :  Syr  Siors  Harbart  ap  Ric:  H.  ap  syr  W.  jarll  P.  &c. 

224  Syrr  To:  ystradling  ap  syr  Edw:  ystradling  &c. 

226  Penn  llin  ymorgannwc :  Krvstor  Twrbil  ap  Rankin  T.  &c. 

227  Syr  Eic:  Krofft  ap  W.  Krofit  ap  J.  KrofEt  &c. 

228  Syr  J.  Gr:  ap  syr  To:  ap  syr  Eys  &c. 
Pikdwn:  My  W.  ph;  ap  S.  ph:  ap  syr  To:  ph;  &c. 

230  Sain  Nikolas  yraorganwc :  Roesser  ap  To:  ap  Rosser  ap  To:  &c. 

231  Chwitnai :  syr  Rob;  chwitnai  ap  Ewstans  ap  syr  Rob:  &c. 

232  Talgarth — Syr  Roesser  vychan  ap  syr  W.  vychan  &c. 

234  Aber  bran  :  J.  gams  ap  J.  gams  ap  fin  &c.* 

235  Ydrefnewydd,  A.  Hodni :  J.  gams  ap  Edw.  gams  ap  J.  &c, 

237  Brycheinioc:  Ph;  ap  J.  ap  Gim  ap  D.  ap  syr  Watgyn  &c. 

238  IL.  Triddid  ymorganwc :  J.  Bassed  ap  To:  based  &c. 

239  Morgamiwc :  Jams  To:  ap  Jankin  ap  J.  ap  J.  &c. 

241  2L.  Snitwyr  ymorganwc :  S.  Gwyn  ap  S.  G.  ap  "Jankyn  &c. 

242  Y  ras  ymorgannwc :  J.  karn  ap  Ric:  karn  ap  Ho:  &c. 

245  Ysger  lochwrs :  Eissiart  lochwr  ap  watgin  L.  ap  Eic:  L.  &c. 

246  Yr  adur  vawr :  Sioned  vj  To;  ap  ph:  ap  adam  v'n  &c. 

247  Morgannwc:  Gwenllian  V3  D.  ap  gim  g.  D.  ap  Mathav  &i3. 

248  p.  syr  Edw:  ystradling  ap  syr  To;  ystradlin  &c. 

249  Mm-ganmi)c :  W.  bassed  ap  W.  based  ap  siankin  &c. 

250  ,,  Syr  water  ysgwl  ap  To:  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
Aber  Teivi:  Gwion  bennarw  ap  Gwion  sais  &c. 

Blaen  trenn,  IL  y  byddair:  Rys  ap  D.  ap  To:  ap  D.  &c. 
Ho;  melyn  ap  Gim  Gam  ap  Ho:  vychan  ap  Ho;  &c. 
Morgammc:  J.  ap  R.  ap  Jankin  ap  Rys  &c. 

251  Gwent :  Syr  D.  gam  ap  iin  ap  Ho:  vychan  &c. 
Brycheinioc  :  Iin  ap  Ho:  vychan  a  briododd  Mawd  vj  ^.  ftp  R.  &c. 
Grouo  Goch  ap  meilir  ap  Gwrgenav  vychan  &c. 
Brycheinioc :  Einion  ap  7  ago  ap  Gr:  ap  Eidde  &c. 
Talgarth :  p.  Roesser  vychan  o  Siwan  V3  Rob:  argl.  witnai  &c. 

252  &  289  p.  syr  D.  Gam  o  Wenllian  V3  Gim  ap  Ho:  &c. 

253  Morgannwc :  Syr  siors  mathav  ap  syr  W.  mathav  &c. 

255  „  Paen  Turbervil  arg  y  koety  &c. 

256  „  Rob:  gamais  ap  Syr  To:  &c.  arg:  y  koety  heddiw 
258  Sieb  scid  ynghaer  Ivdd:  Hopkyn  Powel  ap  To:  ap  Hopgyn  &c. 


*  With  additione  from  "  Uyfr  D.  ap  John  «p  Hari." 


S^6  PJfciJiABTH  MANUSCRIPT  14(5. 

269  Dinefwr — y  dref  neieydd:  M'  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  syr  Gr:  ap  syr  R. 

262  Kelle  gaer :  W  Hari  ap  To:  ap  syr  sion  marchoc  &c.    [ap  T. 

263  I'ont  y  lual :  Boeser  Havart  ap  Jankin  Harart  &c. 

264  Lewys  Morganwc  p.*  ap  Ric.  p.  ap  R.  p.  ap  '].  ap  Ho:  ap  R.  v'n 

ap  R.  voel  ap  R.  goeh  ap  Rikert  ap  Einion  ap  goUwyn  &c. 

265  Evas  :  To:  ap  Lewys  ap  J.  ap  gtm  ap  Ho:  &c. 

266  Yfforest :  Ho:  ap  morgan  ap  R.  ap  Morgan  &c. 

267  Gwilim  ap  Morgan  ap  Rys  ap  Ho:  ap  D.  &c. 

268  kymtcd  mab  Elvyio—Penn  karec :  D.  ap  Einion  ap  D.  ap  J.  B. 

269  Pentref  y  hwn,  IL.  nant  y  gof,  Pedidioc :  J.  ap  0.  ap  D.  ap 

270  Brodorddyn  :  syr  Ric:  vychan  ap  To:  vychan  &c.  [gtm  &c. 

271  Ydeav  :  Elidir  /  Trahayarn  =  meib  Dyved  ap  kadifor  &c. 
Tregaron :  Siffre  relyn  mab  klement  baker  a  ddaliodd  gr: 

272  „  p.  J.  klement,  Rob:  klement  &c.  [llwyd  &c. 

273  Aeron  :  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  R.  tad  ).,  tad  D.  Uwyd  ap  ^.  Uwyd  &c. 
Glynn  Aeron  :  Mred:  /  gr:  =  meib  kad:  vantach  &e. 

274  Kayo  :  Gr:  vychan  a  Ho:  gam  =  meib  D.  ap  mevric  goch  &c. 
Einion  /  R.  /  Pb.  /  Esgob  ili  =  meib  Ho:  ap  kadwgan  &c. 

275  Bvellt :  Morgan  a  ph:  =  meib  D.  vychan  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

276  Syr  Rob:  of  acton  oedd  nai  vab  chwaer  i  syr  Rob:  o  ^al  &c. 
Penvro :  Mred:  ap  To:  ap  ftn  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  ap  0.  &c. 

277  Ydeav .-  Rys  llvryd  ap  Rys  ap  Rikart  ap  ftn  ap  R.  chwith  &c. 

278  Brycheinion  :  To:  ap  Gwallter  Havart  ap  ]fankin  hafart  &o. 

279  Y  deav  :  Madoc  ap  Ho:  ap  madoc  ap  trahayarn  &c. 

280  Argl:  Tal  y  llynn  =  S.  ap  Ho:  ap  gim  [ap]  To:  ap  gr:  ap  O. 

282  JSir  Henjf'ordd :  Sir  J.  Prys  marchoc  vn  or  kyngor  ap  R.  ap 

gim  gwynn  .  .  .  ap  Einion  Sais  =  iach  Talgarth 
,  Glynn  Taioy  :  J,  ap  Gtm  ap  D.  ap  gtm  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

283  Brycheinioc,  y  haerav,  plwyf  jfeuan  :  Ho:  ap  Roesser  ap  T.  hir 
Aber  Hodni :  IL'u  ap  To:  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  syr  D.  gam  &c. 

284  Brycheinioc  :  Watgyn  vychan  ap  Tomas  ap  Rydd}  &c. 

285  ,,  IL.  vihangel  vechan  :  Ho:  ap  gtm  ap  ho:  &c. 

286  Morva  gwent — is  hoed :  J.  Gams  ap  J.  ap  watgyn  &c. 
Porth  gwynn— gallt  brengv  :  Wallder  ap  Morgan  &c. 
Gwent :  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  syr  D.  gam 

287  Pennedcryn :  Ph:  ap  R.  ap  Jankin  ap  tin  ap  gtm  &c. 
Gwent :  Ho:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  R.  Uwyd  penkerdd 

288  Brycheinioc  :  jankin  Goch  ap  Ric:  ap  tin  &c. 

JL.  dyvaeloc :  syr  To:  Gr:  person  ap  gr:  ap  itn  &c. 
Ystrad  vellte :  IL'n  ap  gim  ap  itn  ap  gtm  gwynn  &c. 
„  „         J.  ap  Hopkyn  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

289  Brycheinioc :  p.  Einion  sais  =  Rys  /  Ho:  /  D.  llwyd  /  Mred:  &c. 
Gyveni:  Jams  Gwnter  ap  Gwatgyn  gwnter  ap  W.  G.  &c. 

290  JL.  daf:  To:  ap  Edw:  Lewys  ap  Ric:  gwyn 

291  Trefy  delyn,  Maesyvaid :  D.  ap  R.  ap  Metric  ap  Mred:  8ic. 

292  Maesyvaid :  W.  Hobi  ior  berwar  ap  To:  hobi  &c. 

293  Matbias  ap  O.  a  briodes  Dyddgv  V3  D.  ap  O.  ap  Mred  o  dref 

Eikert  ynghenarth  &c.  .  .  T.  bowen  brawd  mathias  &c. 

294  Brycheinioc  :  Gr:  ap  itn  ap  gtm  gwynn  Telynior 

295  Maesyvaid :  Ric:  hobi  o  vadlond  a  stivyn  hobi  &c. 

297  Misgin  ymorgannwc :  p.  y  bach  ap  gwithvoed  =  gr:  goec  &c. 
Saing  henydd    „       Mad:  ap  Ho:  raelyn  ap  gr:  &c. 

298  Sir  benfro:  Arg:  fferis  water  ap  John  &c. 

♦  'pA»p>  St^ncliii,  apparently,  for  penkerdd  or  prydi/dd. 


.      WllLlijyr  LLYN  AND  OTSEES.  897 

299  Sir  Gaer—Gwidigada :  Gr:  ap  E.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  &c. 
Ki/nnwi/l  Gayo  :  Rydd}  ap  gtm  ap  morgan  &c. 

300  Koedmor  :  J.  Mortimer  ap  Jamys  M.  ap  Ric:  M.  &c. 

301  Karoc  :  Keinallt  ap  Jankin  llwyd  &c. 

302  Aber  Maed:  J.  Ihvyd  ap  J.  ap  lewys  ap  ftu  v'n  &c. 

303  Y  KrevddvH .-  Morgan  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  morys  ap  Jankin  &c. 

304  Glan  Leri  .-  J.  vychan  ap  Rydd}  ap  Rys  &c. 

305  V  Krevddyn :  R.  ap  D.  ap  Jankin  ap  ]f.  &c: 

306  Kelli  gadrod,  JL.  gyndeyrn  :  Hiiw  llwyd  ap  To:  ap  Eob:  &c. 

307  Gtann  Gwendraeth :  D.  llwyd  ap  Eob:  ap  gr:  ap  D.  &c. 

308  Plas  Hws,  Penmaik,  Morgannwc  :  Huw  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

309  Is  kenen :  p.  Kydd}  ap  J.  llwyd  V3  J.  ap  gr:  ap  O.  &c. 

310  Keintvn  :  Siarlys  vachan  ap  Siams  ap  watgyn  v'n  &c. 

311  Penny  Tioed,  Gwent:  Syr  To:  ap  Morgan  ap  syr  W.  varchog  &c. 

312  kastell  Gevail  ynghoedmor :  S.  mortimer  barwn  koedmor  &c. 
314  Morgannwc :  Syr  R.  mawnssel  ap  Jankyn  mawnsel  ap  ph:  &c. 

320  llwtjn  Jer:  Sir  Aber  Teifi :  Watgyn  ap  To:  ap  Rys  ap  lewys  &c. 

321  Hj.fihangel  ynystrad ;  D.  ap  ]f.  ap  glm  ap  ]f.  ap  ph:  &c. 

323  Penn  y  wern,  klwt  siak,  ystrad :  D.  llwyd  ap  Morgan  v'n  &c. 

324  Bwlch  Einion  yngenavr  glynn  :  ]favan  ap  ^ankyu  ap  Itn  &c. 

328  IL.  voir  glvdoge  :  D.  ap  ]f.  llwyd  vachan  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

329  iL.  bedr  pont  ystyfn :  To:  ap  Gr:  ap  }.  ap  D.  ap  ttn  &c. 

331  pant  y  Betios,  Betws  Jevan  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  Mred;  &c. 

332  Gwernan :  p.  D.  ap  tomas  ap  D.  =  Rys  /  Gr:  /  ho:  &c. 

333  llwyn  Davydd :  Hiiw  ap  to:  ap  adam  ap  ^.  &c. 

334  Jiaer  wedros  :  D.  ap  Harri  ap  To:  ap  ph:  &c. 

335  „  D.  ap  To:  goch  ap  R.  ap  Jankin  &c. 

336  ,,  ktnarth:  jfankin  ap  Morys  ap  0.  ap  ho:  &c. 
338  Harstwn  :  syr  John  perod  ap  Tomas  perod  ap  syr  O.  P.  &c. 

340  Meilienyd:  Huw  lloyd  ap  J.  lloed  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

341  sir  Aber  teifi :  Jamys  ap  morys  ap  ph:  ap  D.  &c. 
343  Kil  yssant :  D.  lloyd  ap  O.  ap  syr  "Tomas  Ph:  &c. 

346  Eslebeds  :  J.  barlo  Esq  ap  Roger  b.  ap  W.  barlo  &c. 

347  Tref  garon  :  To:  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  ho:  &c. 

350  Kantor  :  Mastr  syr  To:  ap  Rys  kantor  ap  -f.  ap  gr:  &c. 

351  IL.  ystyffun  :  To:  lloyd  ap  Jankin  lloyd  ap  morys  lloyd  Ac. 

352  Kric  Hoicel :  Ed  wart  Herbart  ap  watgyn  H.  ap  W.  H.  &c. 

354  Gwent — JL.  Deilo  y  berth  olav :  Watgyn  ap  morgan  o  benn  y 

355  Saingenydd  :  itn  brenn  ap  gr:  ap  ttn  hagr  &c.  [klawdd  etc. 
Morgannwc  :  To:  ap  syr  tomas  ap  syr  John  ap  syr  Ici.'sion  &c. 

356  p.  ][estin  ap  gwigant  ==  karadoc  /  kyn;  &c. 

358  Syr  Edw:  manssel  marchoc  ap  syr  Rys  ap  siankin  &c. 
365   Tir  Jarll :  Thomas  ap  Ho:  ap  sion  ap  hopgyn  ap  Bn  &c. 
368  Morgannwc  :  Leision  ap  Rys  ap  J.  ap  glm  &c.* 
370  Aber  hodni  ymrycheinioc  :  J.  ap  lawrens  ap  glm  ap  ph:  &c. 

372  Gohelyth  Glyn  nedd:  Eich:  ap  Tho:  ap  GriSyth  g03  &c. 

373  Glynn  Nedd :  Rys  ap  Jankyn  ap  E.  lloyd  ap  Hn  &c. 

MORGANWG: — 

Glyn  Nedd  :  Rys  ap  Eich:  ap  Rys  ap  John  ap  Eys  &c. 

374  plwyfynys  avari—rwngNedd  ae  avan:  W.  ap  G wallder  ap W.  Ac. 
2L.  Dw  :  J.  arg:  IL.  dw  ap  J,  ap  Tho:  ap  D.  &c. 

Ej.  Hart:  W.  Gibwnn  arg:  IL.  hari  a  chastell  esgwrla  &c. 

375  Gohelyth  Rws :  Hyw  argl:  IL.  qwian  ao  vn  or  iv  esgolhaig  or 
cbanncery  o  Lyndain  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

^i'  ■    — — . "- '  '  '  "^"'  , 

*  ffann  Duims  ap  ho'l  o  dir  i/r  Jarll  y  had  hynn.     [W.  ll^iij. 


898  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPTS  140-141. 

375  Gohelyth  y  Cradogiaid :  Margret  merch  Syr  Mathew  Cradog 
argl:  Cornell,  Tre  garvntlo,  y  dre  newydd,  cogann  pyll,  lecwydd  a 
denys  powys,  g.  Ric:  Harbart  o  eyas  &c. 

376  Ph:  Cradog  o  gwrt  y  ryd  hir  o  dir  y  Crwmioel  arglwydd 
BJangynydd  mab  J.  gwyn  cradok  &c. 

377  Itagllaw  y  traithir  pa  vodd  y  gwneler  ink :  kymer  banner 
pwys  y  bynt  or  gals  &c.* 


MS.  141  =  Hen.  482.  Pedigrees  and  Heraldic  Devices,  mostly 
coloured  and  in  the  autograph  of  Wiliam  ILyn.  Paper;  6^  x  5  inches  ; 
130  pages;  bound  in  calf. 

This  manuscript  is  imperfect  ia  many  parts.  According  to  tlie  original  numbering 
folios  3-7,  9-10,  12-30,  27-65,  74-83,  and  88-96,  are  missing. 

Pages  1-2,  12-14,  16-17  contain  entries  by  Eys  Cain;  pages  48-9  are  in  the 
same  hand  as  Pen :  MS.  138.  There  are  a  few  insertions  and  additions  by  other 
hands. 

1  Ardvdwy — IL,  enddwyn :  p.  lewys  ap  gr:  ap  Edn:  &c. 

2  harrec  yn  llyn  :  p.  Rob:  kaiTec  o  gatrin  v)  Ris*  ap  J.  &c. 

3  Index  to  names  beginning  with  R,  S,  T,  W,  L,  O  &c. 

9  Fenngwern — JL.  wnda :  Hiiw  ap  W.  ap  Mad:  ap  ]f .  &c. 

12  Kydewain — Minafon  :  J.  ap  R.  wynn  ap  gr:  &c.         .   ^5^^. 

13  Gwrddi — sir  ymwytkic :  Rich:  Draper  ap  Tho:  Draper  &c. 
15   Table  of  the  descendants  of  D.  ap  ho'l 

17  JL.  vwch  llynn  :  J.  ap  Edw:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  J.  V'n  &c. 

18  Brynn  Tang  or :  S.  wynn  ap  Roger  ap  S.  Wynu  &c. 

20  IL.  gerniw  :  p.  J.  Iloyd  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

21  Boduel :  S.  wynn  ap  huw  ap  S.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

24  kefn  amwlch :  S.  ap  gr:  ap  S.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  vychan  &c. 

25  Y  wern  fawr :  Rob:  ap  S.  ap  R.  wynn  ap  D.  &c. 

26  Madryn  :  To:  madryn  ap  gr:  ap  To:  ap  S.  madryn  &c. 

27  F  llivyn  dyrys  :  Ric:  vychan  ap  R.  vychan  ap  W.  V.  &c. 

28  Myllteyrn  :  Edw:  ap  Roland  ap  Rob:  ap  R.  ap  ho:  &c. 

b.  Ymwythic  :  Nikolas  (pyrser)  ap  Ric:  ap  Ric:  ap  To:  &c. 

c.  (Esgob  raanaw  heddiw  1606  yw  mab  Ph:  ap  gr:  &c.) 

29  Y  kelynennav  :  S""  W.  ap  morus  ap  Elissav  ap  morys  &c. 

32  Brynkair  :  Elissav  ap  Rob:  Wynn  ap  "j.  &c. 

33  Y  Bettws  :  Rob:  vychan  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 

34  Ystyn  kegid  :  J.  wynn  ap  O.  ap  J.  ap  O.  &c. 

36  Y  berkyn :  Ho:  vychan  ap  ho:  ap  Mad:  ap  R.  &c. 

37  Y  gwnfryn :  J.  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  grono  &c. 
6.  Aber  gelav  :  Pirs  ap  J.  wynn  ap  0.  ap  gr:  &c. 

39  JZ/Cc/i  eiddior  :  Rob:  ap  Ric:  ap  Rob:  ap  ho'l  &c. 

40  Y kernioce  yn  hiracthoc  :  Rob:  wynn  .ap  Rob:  gethiii  &c. 
44  Ysgeifioc  :  J.  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  Jthel  vychan  &c. 

46  Elys  wyn  ap  J.  ap  'Jthel  ap  D. 

48  Yrowydd :  Syr  tho:  hanmer  ap  Syr  tho:  hanmer  &c. 

51  Ykoed  ty  ynhegaingl :  To:  ap  harri  vychan  ap  ho'l 

52  Yplas  Tec :  J.  trefor  ap  Rob:  trefor  ap  J.  &c. 

53  Ednop  :  Ho:  ap  Ric:  ap  ho :  ap  gr:  &c. 

55  Ynys  y  maengwyn  :  John  Wynn  ap  Wmffre  ap  ho:  &c, 

56  Ej.  vendigaid  :  Hvw  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  &c. 

57  hein  meirch :  W.  ap  Reiuallt  ap  Mred:  ap  GIm  &c. 

*  probfttum  est  permc K.  T.       .  1573  , 


PEDIGREES  BY  WILLIAM  LLYN.  899 

58  Ystrad  aliin  :  S.  Wynn  ap  gr:  ap  D.  Uwyd  &c. 

59  Main  gwynedd :  To:  ap  Eeinallt  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  &c. 

61  Y.  alun  :  Jthel  w.ynn  mab  nikolas  ap  gwynn  &c. 

62  JL.  sannan  .■  Mred:  ap  gronw  gethin  ap  D.  Uwyd  &c. 

63  kesail  devnant :  .].  ap  morgan  ap  gr:  ap  Einion'&c. 

64  y  graean  llyn — IL.  drillo  yn  Ros  :  Morys  ap  huw  ap  W.  &c. 
b.  Harston — penfro :  syr  J.  perod  ap  to:  p.  ap  syr  O.  perod  &Ci 

68  Trygarn  ymon  :  Rys  ap  Rys  ap  1).  ap  Edn:  &c. 

69  Llecliryd — Itym:  llhoon :  Lewys  ap  ho'l  ap  ^er:  &c. 

70  Y  dref  wenn  :  Morys  ap  J.  ap  Rys  ap  ho'l  &c. 

71  ILechylched :  Huw  ap  S.  ap  fin  ap  D.  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 
6.  JLiieon  :  Su  ap  D.  ap  ho;  ap  Tegwared  &c. 

72  Malldraeth :  O.  ap  Huw  ap  0.  ap  meuric  &c. 

74  kymwd  ilenai :  Rissiart  ap  D.  ap  hvw  ap  Morgan  &c. 
76  Ki.  vigel :  Rys  ap  W.  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

78  Y  drysglwyn  :  S.  ap  Gtm  ap  R.  ap  Tiidr  ap  itn  &c. 

79  Bodavon  ymon :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  Jhon  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

b.  llestyn  wallon  yn  JL.  silin :  Lewys  ap  Rob:  ap  ftn  &c. 

80  Trer  bardd  ymon:  IL'n  ap  Tudr  ap  ho:  ap  kyn.  &c. 

81  Hersedd:  Edw:  Uwyd  ap  Rob:  Uwyd  ap  Edw:  &c. 

83  Evtvn :  Siams  Evtyn  ap  huw  Evtyn  ap  O.  &c. 

b.  plas  had :  ymaelor :  Edw:  ap  John  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

84  Morganntoc :  syr  R.  mawnssel  ap  lankyn  M.  &c. 

85  Byw  mares  ymon :  syr  Ric:  bwkle  ap  syr  Ric;  B.  &c. 

87  Maesmor — Dinmael:  Rob:  wynn  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  Ac. 

91  Penn  mynydd  ymon  :  Ric:  O.  ap  Ric:  ap  O.  ap  Tudiir  <fcc. 

92  Gloddaith :  To:  mostun  ap  Ric:  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  V'n  &c. 

Kymwd  lliicon 

93  Prys  addved :  W.  lewys  ap  hiiw  ap  John  &c. 

94  Bodychen  :  J.  ap  R.  ap  ftn  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

95  Y  chwaen ;  J.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

96  Tref  Jer:—  Bodedyrn  :  Morys  ap  Morys  ap  gr:  Ac. 

97  Trqfi'wU — llechylchcd :  Rob:  ap  ]f.  ap  ho:  ap  kwnws  Ac. 
b.  Harston :  syr  J.  Perod  ap  tomas  p.  ap  syr  C).  &c. 

98  Kydewain  :  J.  prys  ap  Mathav  goch  &c. 

100  „  abei-  hychan :  R.  ap  morys  ap  O.  ap  ^.  Bleuav  Ac. 
h.  hegidfa :  Wmffre  ap  J.  wynn  ap  gr:  ap  Reinallt  &c. 

101  Penllyn :  Morgan  ap  J.  ap  J.    ap  R.  ap  J.  &c. 

b.  syr  gaer  arvon  :  Huw  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  D.  bangor  &c. 

102  Dinbych  :  Huw  dreies  ap  To:  dreies  ap  Rob:  dreiwist  &c. 

b.  Hirdref  vai,  mon  :  J.  wynn  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

c.  Y  kelynenav  :  Dokdor  Elis  siams  yw  ef  ap  elisav  &c. 

103  *f<lwt  y  vedtcen  :  To:  ap  Reinallt  ap  W.  ap  D.  &c. 

104  Ystryd  alvn  :  Rys  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  J.  &c. 

b.  Myvyrian,  k.  menai :  Rissiart  ap  Rydds  ap  D.  &c. 

108  Twr  kelyn — tref  y  brawd :  Hn  ap  Tudur  ap  ho'l  ap  kyn:  &o. 
k.  llivDon — K,.  vaeloc :  Reinallt  ap  W.  ap  tudur  &c. 

109  „  „  Rys  ap  lin  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  &c. 

b.  k.  Tindaethwy  :  J.  Uwyd  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  pgim  ap  ithel  &c. 
]  10  Twr  kelyn  .-  J.  paris  ap  To:  ap  gr:  ap  syr  W.  &c. 

Towyn  :  p.  D.  lloyd  ap  hugh  =  John/hugh  /  mari  &c. 

111  Twr  kelyn  :  p.  D.  ap  Icyn:  =  D.  / gr:  / a  thMur  &c. 

b.  Bodavon :  To:  ap  R.  ap  W.  ap  D.  &c. 

c.  ystvn  llyn :  p.  To:  ap  Rys  ap  ho'l  &c. 

112  llys  dUlas  :  To:  Uwyd  ap  D.  Uwyd  ap  D.  ap  glm  &c. 
b.  Penhol—Twrkelyn :  D.  ap  R.  ap  gtm  ap  ^.  &c. 


'  gwUoet  yn  Sir  ijmwylMc  is  written  above  klwt  y  vedtcen 


900  PENlARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   141-142, 

1 1 3  Tal  Eholion :  Rol:  moel  ap  gtm  moel  ap  J.  ap  J.  Moel  hen 

b.  „  To:  bwkle  person  BJ.  Ruddlad,  3L.  y  ddevsant  &c. 

c.  Tindaethioy — pentraeth :  D.  llwyd  ap  O.  ap  R.  &c. 

1 14  IL.  gefni ;  Rol:  ap  W.  ap  Rol:  ap  W.  &c. 
b.  Arianell  ymon  :  J.  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  Hn  &c. 

115  gornant — IL.  vachreth  :  Rob:  bwkle  brawd  To:  vcliod 
b.   Tal  ebolion  :  J.  ap  ho'l  ap  ftn  ap  ithel  &c. 

116  JL.  vwroc  :  Ric:  ap  inorys  ap  R,  ap  ho'l  &c. 

Tal  ebolion— k.  gybi:  J.  ap  O.  ap  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

117  „  ]f.  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  ho'l  ap  D.  &c. 

„  k.  gybi :  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  ap  ftn  &c. 

118  IL.  vwroc — bod  gymais :  Mred:  ap  gr:  ap  grono  &c. 
manachdy — kowr'nwy  :  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  Edn:  &c. 

119  Tal  ebolion —         „        Rob:  ap  J.  ap  gtm  &c. 
Vcheldref:  Rys  ap  ho'l  ap  Rob:  ap  fln  &c. 

120  It.  malldraeth — Trefveilir :  0.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  ^.  &c. 

122  IL.  vechell :  Hiiw  ap  ftn  ap  Mred:  ap  Rys  &c. 
kaer  degoc  ;  W.  ap  Morgan  ap  gim  ap  Mred:  &c. 

123  JL.  badric :  W.  ap  Rys  ap  gim  ap  Hq  &c. 

124  „  Rys  ap  syr  D.  ap  R.  ap  ho'l  ap  Hn  &c. 

,,  Trefy  gof:  J.  ap  Ric:  goch  ap  liuw  &c. 

vchel  dref :  Rob:  ap  morys  ap  R.  ap  ho'l  &c. 

125  Bodavon — 7'.  kelyn  :  Gr:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 
k.  menai — Rossur :  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  hiiw  ap  Mred:  &c. 
Twr  kelyn:  Rys  ap  D.  ap  ]fer:  ap  D.  wyn  &c. 

126  Moyi :  Rys  Gr:  ac  far:  meib  ho'l  y  fardd  [=y  farf]  &c. 

127  Twr  kelyn :  Tiidiir  ap  ho'l  ap  Rys  ap  To:  &c. 

128  „  llys  llwydiarth :  R.  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  &c. 


MS.  142  =  Hen.  110.    ILyfr  Achae  Trevor  o  Deefalun  etc. 
in  the  autograph  of  Wiliam  IL^n.     Paper  ;  8|  X  5f  inches ;  128  pages  ; 
written  in  1569  (p.  26)  ;  bound  in  calf. 
1-4  Kough  sketches  of  shields 
5-21  Index  to  proper  names 

22  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Eic:  Harley 
2.1-4  Fragment  of  a  leaf 

25-109  Tref  alvn :  J.  Trevor  ap  J.  T.  ap  J.  T.  ap  Ric:  T.  ap  John 
Trevor  hen  ap  *Edw:  ap  Dd:  &c.     The  maternal  nncestors  follow  at 

very  great  length. 

There  are  marginalia  by  11.  Cain,  and  insertions  in  the  same  writing  as  the 
principal  hand  in  Pen:  MS.  129  (pp.  62,  74,  102,  104).  It  would  seem  that  Rliys 
Cain  attributes  this  to  llaiv  Eiiw:  ap  Eogei-  (p.  39). 

110  Arvav  John  Trevor  Trevalvn  Esquier,  and  M'  T.  Tanad 

112  krogen  yn  Edeinion  :  Morgan  ap  tomas  ap  ho'lf  &c. 

114  Pentref  aeron  :  To:  lloyd  ap  J.  lloyd  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

119  Wyley  ;  Rolaut  lakyn  ap  Ric:  lakyn  &c. 

120  Gwaer  dyu  or  dylyn  diles  a  fagai  lydfegin  hen  sarffes 

Neidr  arw  i  grain'nid  ir  gwres  oer  o  fewn  ar  i  fynwes         [?  aR.  Cain] 

b.  Gwir  gvtir  a  hanwir  hanes  //  dihareb  a  dihirwch  gormes 

Gwae  a  fao  neidr  lidwac  les  drwyn  vain  a  dry  /  u  /  i  yyuwes    a  W.  llyn 

c.  y  dref  lydan  :  "Wmffre  ap  Roesser  ap  J.  wyn  &c. 

121  %Towyn  :  Hari  salbri  ap  W  To:  S.  ap  T.  S.  &g, 
Gr:  lloyd  ap  D.  ap  gr.  ap  mad:  &c. 


♦  "  Obitus  edwardi  ap  D.  in  festo  evaugelisti  a",  dii  M  COCC  X."    W.  W.  E  Wynne 
f  "  kopi  0  law  giityu  Owain  ymhlas  Crogen"  (p.  113). 
1  Ib  different  liands. 


WILLIAM  LLYN  AND  ANOTHER.  901 

122  *p.  Kis  wynn  ap  hugh  ap  R.  ap  ho:  o  mossoglen         1574* 
b.  Table  of  the  descendants  of  syr  Tudur 

124  Tlr  gwyr :  M'^  prys  syr  D.  yw  ef  ap  R.  ap  J.  &c. 
b.  Glan  hafren  :  To:  lloyd  ap  gr:  vachan  &c. 

125  Gwalltyn  gwrddi :  Ric:  Draper  ap  To:  draper  &c. 

126  Y  mydl :  Shield  device  &c. 

128  Roddiad  nattiriol  oddkorth  ddiiw  ac  ni  ellir  i  dysgv  :  klywed 
dan  y  dwr  y  path  a  ddoeter  a  medru  lleisiaw  dan  y  dwr  &c. 


MS.  143=  Hen.  458.  Pedigrees.  Paper;  about  8  x  Scinches; 
52  pages,  all  more  or  less  torn — interleaved  throughout ;  second  half  of 
the  xvith  century;  bound  in  leather. 

This  MS.  is  ia  the  same  hand  as  Pen.  MS.  The  name  of  Grace  Jones  occurs  on 
page  1  (see  Pen.  MSS.  18  and  57),  and  that  of  John  Lewys  on  page  15. 

1-3  Thickly  gall  stained  and  partly  imperfect. 

4  Tri  lie  yr  aeth  gwynedd  ar  gogail  &c.  || 

5  jl  A  description  of  the  arms  of  IFlemin  gwenvo,  Dalaber, 
Twrbervil,  Barklos,  y  Gamaia,  ystradling,  Bwttler,  argl:  Bi.  dochav, 
Braygan,  Kemais,  and  Maliffawnd. 

6  &  49  Tri  lie  y  kad  bonedd  ac  anvon[edd]  heb  na  mam  na  thad 
yddynt  .  .  .  .  ac  yny  nef  y  dechroyayd  bonedd  &c. 

7  Gwehelyth  dehaybarth :  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  ap  tewdwr  &c. 
G-r:  Maelor  ap  O.  vychan  ag  elisse  &c. 

8  Ho:  ap  1.  ap  O.  ap  trahaern  ap  kradoc  &c. 
kadwallon  ap  Madoc  ap  kadwgan  Ac. 

p.  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  =  Madoc  /  rririt  &c. 

9  Gwehelyth  Mamav :  Mam  Gr:  ap  kynan  &c. 
10  Maibon  kynedda  wledic  =  Pibiawn  &c. 

12  plant  yr  argl:  Rys  =  Gr:  &c. 

18  Syr  gr:  llwyd  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  &c. 

19  Syr  W.  gr:  ap  syr  W.  ap  syr  W  .  .  .  ap  ednyfed  vychan 
V  rrosseriait :  Syr  rrosser  ap  rosser  hen  &c. 

20  ^estin  ap  gwrgan  ap  'Jthel  ap  morgan  &c. 

20  85  37   Y  mathiaid:  D.  ap  mathav  ap  "j.  ap  gr:  &c. 

21  O.  y  glynn  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  &c. 

22  Brychainoc  :  Syr  D.  gam  ap  ttn  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 
p.  kaw  o  brydain  =  dirmic  &c. 

23  p.  llywar[ch]  hen  =  Gwynn,  pill  &c. 
p.  Yrien  ap  kynvarch  =  O./  Rvn  &c. 

24  p.  gorwst  ledlwtfi  =  Meirchion  gyl 

b.  p.  kynvarch  oer  =  Hew  /  aron  &c. 

c.  Morganmvc :  J,  ap  Rys  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

d.  XV  ll6yth  g6yned: :  Hwfa  ap  kynddelw  &e. 

30  Kadwallon  a  ]fer:  maibion  llwarch  ap  pran  &c. 
Hennrri  ap  hennrri  ap  emwnt  &c. 

31  Swydd  gaer  :  Hn  voethys  ap  Hn  ddy  ap  Owain  &c. 

32  y  tywyn :  Rydds  ap  Rys  ap  Mred:  ap  O.  &c. 

b.  kidweli :  syr  J.  dwnn  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

c.  llawdden  ap  fer:  ap  yehdryd  &c. 

d.  y  kreyddyn  :  Dinawal  ap  aelaw  ap  Alssar  &c. 

e.  Sainhenydd :  Ryn  ap  Sayssyllt  ap  kynvyn  &c. 

33  Harri  sant  o  winssor  ap  harri  bymet  &c. 

34  Arthyr  ap  ythyr  ap  kystenin  &c. 

35  Ach  syr  Rys  ap  thomas  ap  gr:  &c. 


*  In  different  bands. 


902  PENURTH  MANUSCRIPTS  143-144, 

38  K,yma  enwav  y  milwyr :  Lawnsslot  dy  lac,  Galath  &o. 

39  Marchogion  y  vort  gron:  Kattwr  iarll  kerniw/  Erbiu  &o, 

40  Maissgin  :  maibion  y  bach  ap  gwaith  voet  &c„ 
Sainhenydd ;  Madoc  ap  ho:  velyn  ap  gr:  &c, 

41  Maibion  gadvan  ap  Jago  ap  beli  &c, . 

43  Paeu  tufbervil  argl;  y  koetv  &c, 

44  Merched  hopgyn  ap  ho;  ychan  &c. 

40  Arvan  y  k6ii.k6er6yr  a  vyant  ymovganwc  i  Jarll  y  elar,  ysbensser, 

47  Maibion  rrodrri  mawr,  ac  eidwal  voel, 

49  Gwehelyth  ssaint  ynys  brydain :  Dewi  ap  ssanok  ap  karedic  &c, 


MS.  144  =  Hen.  419.  Poetet,  Pedigrees  &c.  Paper;  7|x 
5|  inches  ;  pages  i-xx,  1-294,  dog-eared  with  a  few  imperfect  at 
beginning  and  end;  xvnth  century;  in  old  vellum  covers,  all  torn. 

There  are  many  hands.  Pages  xix,  294 — 275  belong  to  1624  (p.  xx)  j  the 
poetry  of  pages  1-81,  238-64,  -was  written  circa  1640  (pp.  81,  248)  ;  most  of  the 
pedigrees  of  pages  83-166  belong  to  about  1653  (p.  151).  The  rest  of  the  MS.  is 
later  and  in  several  hands  including  that  of  John  Davies  of  Khiwias.  This 
MS.  belonged  to  Edward  ap  Dauidd*  (pp.  248,  293).  The  name  of  Gwen  Gruffyth 
occurs  on  p.  xvii  (see  p.  269  below).  It  has  also  the  names  of  John  Ueynolds  de 
Oswestry  (p.  240)  ;  Morgan  Jones,  1740  (p.  67);  Rev.  W.  Wyun,  Rector  of 
Llan  gynhaval  [died  1760]  (p.  xvi)  ;  John  Prys  his  book  (pp.  141,  272).  There 
are  very  many  entries  in  the  hand  of  John  Davies  (see  MS.  145  below)  giving  in 
particular  the  dates  of  those  buried  in  his  time  at  Llansilin,  &c.  The  following 
note  also  occurs  on  p.  41: — "Thomas  Morris  of  Bhiwlas  and  Mary  Howel  of 
"  the  same  in  the  county  of  Denbigh  maheth  oath  that  hatherin  v'i  Evan  of 
"  Rhiwlas  ....  lately  deceased  and  buried  in  Llansillin  church  the  14th 
"  of  January  l6yS  was  [not]  wrapt  in  any  shirt,  shift,  sheet,  or 
"  made  or  mingled  with  flax  hemp  or  any  other  then  what  is  made  ofsheeps  wool 
"  only  nor  in  any  coffin  lined  or  fac'd  with  any  other  thing  whatsoeuer  but  sheeps 
"  wool  onely."  Dated  the  20th  January  1678.  Cf.  Graham's  Social  Life  of 
Scotland  in  the  18M  century.     1899. 

i  Index  to  Pedigrees  by  John  Davies  followed  by  Pedigrees, 
xvii  Latin  couplets,  &c. ;  xviii  Heraldic  devices. 
XX  The  Salopians  doe  morne  and  weepe 

to  see  the  plague  vnto  them  crcepe  ,  .  1631  .  &c.    Uich   Wynne 
1  f  Ho:  ap  0.  ap  hoU :  Y  ILew  /  n  /  dirwyn  llaweii  doraid  .  .  . 
yvvch  i  fFen  o  chaif  eiuioes  Owen  gwynedd 

5   To:  ap  ho'l :  Y  dyn  arryw  da  n  yr  had    .... 

Rag  gflT  a  fv  ragor  fawl  Anon 

8  Blin  yw  karchnr  ar  bar  llei  bydd  a  chlefyd  &c.  „ 
6.  klowais  nyd  gwagluis  ffel  gwywgloch  y  bore  &c.  „ 
c.      Marie  Uoer  am  avr  y  Din    .... 

tv  gelynin  teg  lanwaed  » 

9  FD'" -S.  2).— Yr  haelaf  ai /n/ rreolwr    .... 

bo  r/  hael  yn  esgob  ai  rhodd  S.  klywedog 

13   Y  morys  ap  Robert  o  Langedwynn 

O  Bark  hoffwaed  brig  kyffyn     .... 

foch  iechyd  i  fyw  chwech  oes  Bys  kain 

1 7  jf  Roger  kynaston :  Pa  wr  addfed  pvreidd  fawr  .... 

ach  galw  /  n  /  y wch  wrthych  glin  avr  D.  ap  Siankin 

21  Mar:  Morys  ap  To:  'yng  hor  TL.  rhaidr  yng  hydd' 

Diwin  yw  isdad  einioes  dyn     .... 

a  ro  oes  hir  ir  hai  syddf  Anon 

25   Yforvs  ap  ho'l:  Klymv  rwyf  klo  mawr  afael     ,     .     .     . 

kant  o''fyrch  kenyt  a  fof  Rys  kain 

•  See  Pen.  MS.  145  below. 

f  After  the  above  CywySeu  i»  written  «x  per  me  Ricum;  Wynne. 


JOHN  DA  VIES  EHIWLAS  AND  OTHEBS,  90S 

30  Vforvs  ap  Mred:  ap  Jtvan  ap  Rys  ap  ho'l  . 

Tyfodd  gras  difas  bod  dydd  o  iowredd     .... 

att  fod  grisd  i  tyfodd  gras  Rys  kain 

35       Dydd  oer  a  fv  devddwr  fawr     .... 

ych  aer  dof  ach  wyr  dafydd*  Sion  kain 

39  Mar:  Morys  np  S.  ap  0.  ap  ho'l  o  Lanraiadr 

Trees  dvw  alaeth  tros  dwy  wlad     .... 

fry  nifank  i  fron  nefoedd  Edw:  Bvinllys 

43   Mar:  D.  ap  W. — Y  gwr  sydd  daan  groes  heddyw  .... 

Dafydd  Uwyd  a  fydd  holliach  Roger  kyffin 

49  Sir  S.  0  L.  gadvan :  Yr  eos  wycli  aeres  wyd     .... 

deliais  ar  di  lais  evriaith 

ath  hyfryd  gelfyddyd  fayth     .... 

yn  i  swydd  enioes  iddo  Anon 

53  Dolobran :  E  roed  redd  i  evro  tras    .     .     .     , 

i  fron  glan  y  fyrwy  gled  „ 

54  Dod  ateb  ateb  dod  etto :  atteb  &c.  Ex  per  Ricum:  Wynnes  1640 
h.      Doethost  drwy  fawr  fost  i  syr-fyd  yn  noeth  &c.  &c.      Anon 

55  Hvd  awch  drom  hwdiwch  trist     .     .     ,     , 

hyll  fradog  ai  hell  frodyr  „ 

69  /  Ris't  Wyn  :  Y  karw   ffyrf  ar  korf  hir  fawr    .... 

wcha  gwaith  chwi  a  gwen  Jeuan  ap  jfeuan 

63  ^  J.  JVynn :  Ystor  hvd  is  duw  ai  rhoes     .... 

Mae  i  ras  iw  aer  Morys  Wyn     .  I6l1  .  Rees  kain 

67  y  S.  ap  S,  Rinallt  a  Langedwyn 

Oen  ydoedd  gynt  nid  oedd  gam     .... 

O  dy  diiw  a  da  dy  oedd  W.  llynn 

70  Odd  pont  byder  front  ond  tost  bod  honno  &c.     Kuh:  kynwall 

b,  Henwau  XV  llwyth :  Cilinin,  Hwfa,  Bran,  Gwerydd,  Gell  &c. 

c.  Rhiwlas :  Moris  ap  Rich:  ap  Humphrey  &c. 

71  Trwm  (ar  ia  yw)  tramwyr  od  &c.  \_W.  JLyn'] 

72  Atteb  Sir  O. — An  Angen  yr  angan  ai  gwnaieth  &c.     unfinished 
b.      Y  gelyn  ddyn  beth  alle  waeth  &c.  Anon 

73  Gwedir  :  J.  Wynn  ap  Mred:  &c.  Table  of  descendants 
b.  Cattpen  Pyrs  gr:  mab  ac  aer  S'  Eys  gr:  or  Penrhyn  &c. 

74  ILoran  vcha :  p.  Mred:  ap  ]f.  ap  Rys  =  Morris,  S.,  &c. 
6.   The  prophecies  of  the  old  man  at  Rome:  1693  to  1703f 

75  jf  ofvn  helffon  a  gwaiwffon  affadel 

Howel  iach  vchel  chwchwi  sy  o  ben     .... 
gyrwn  eglvrwn  dy  glod  Watkin  Clywedog 

77  Mar:  Gwen  vj  Gr:  g,  Rissart  Wynne  o  Abercynlleth  .  1640 
Kwyn  mae  alaeth  kann  miloedd     .... 
gorffol  oes  iw  gwr  ai  fflant  Watkin  Clywedog 

81  Mred:  lloyd  of  Mayn  beareth  or  a  Lion  &c. 

b.  p.  J.  Blodwell  o  Groesoswallt  =  J.  /  D.,  (fecf 

82  Pennant  Milangell:  O.  ap  Rob.  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  &c. 

JLwyn  y  maen :  Table  of  the  desc*=  of  Ric:  ILoyd  ap  Rob.  Il'd  &c. 

83  Kegidva  :  Edw:  fab  Tho:  ap  Ed:  &c. 

Maelor  Dimmok  :  Tho:  dimok  ap  HwnfEre  dimok  &c. 

84  The  children  of  Edw:  iii  and  (8.5)  of  J.  of  Gaunt 

b.  Paley  in  ILanddervel :  Jeffrey  lloyd  son  to  Moris  &c. 
85  &  117  Moilirch  ;  bu  favw  Morris  Wynn  1573,  Lewis  gwyn   1599,  W.  wynn 

[1644 

*  After  the  above  CywySeu  isi  written  txper  me  Ricum:  Wynne, 


904  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  144. 

b.  Trevalin  ;  Etifiddese  Syr  Eich:  Treuor  &c. 

86  Penllyn  :  p.  Ho:  fychan  =  Rob.  /  S.  /  Ellis  &c. 

87  Aber  kynlleth  ;  J.  Wynne  ap  Ric:  Wyn  &c. 

b.   Maesmochnant :  Rob:  Wyhn  ap  Ric:  Wynn  &c. 
90  Garthmeilio  in  ILangwm  :  p.  J.  ap  Rees  wynn  &c. 
93   Rodvack  :  S.  kyffin  ap  VV.  kyffin  &c. 
95  &  109  Parke  y  Drewen  :  Rob:  Powell  ap  Tho:  Powell  &c. 

97  Mortyn  :  p.  J.  kynaston  oi  wraig  bridged  &c. 

98  TLwyn  y  maen  :  Edw:  Uoyd  &c. 

102  Croes  Oswald :  S.  Trevor  va°  ap  J.  Tr:  &c. 

103  RiwaboH  fVatstay  :  Edw:Evton  ap  W.  ap  S.  &c. 

104  V  achos  i  gadw  Achaii  o  Lyfr  Treveilir  ymon 
b.  karog:  Rich:  Uwyd  ap  S.  llwyd  &c. 

105  Mochnant :  Tho:  lloyd  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  &c. 

106  Voelas  :  Rob:  wynn  ap  Cad'  &c. 

107  Corsygedol :  p.  Rys  vychan  ap  W.  &c. 

b.  Evnant :  Theodor  wyn  ap  Edw:  ap  R.  &c. 

108  JL.  armoii  D.  keirog  :  The:  ap  hugh  ap  Tho:  &e. 

111  Gelli  Avr  :  Rich:  Jarll  Carbery  ap  S'  J.  Va"  &c. 

b.  &  116  Gmenynog  .->  J.  middelton  ap  ifowlk  M.  &c. 

c.  Gwerclax .-  Humffrey  hughes  ap  Rich:  H.  &c. 

112  Ragard  (R/iagad)  :  Roger  llwyd  ap  J.  lloyd  &c. 

113  Bodlith:  Rich:  Middleton  ap  Rich:  M.  &c. 

117  &  85  Moelyrch :  Moris  ap  W.  ap  Lewis  Wynne  ap  Moris  &c. 

118  Aber  tdnnad :  Tho:  ap  E:  ap  Tho:  ap  R.  &c. 

122  Yseeifiog :  Ho'l  ap  S.  ap  harry  ap  kyn:  &c. 

Bron  gain,  IL.  veclien :  George  gr:  ap  watter  gr:  &c. 

123  Mostyn  :  Col:  Roger  Mostin  ap  S'  Tho:  M.  &c. 

125  Pen  dioed  y  feren  ar  dydd  y  svlgwyn         .  1543   . 
JLandrinio  :  p.  SiefEre  Penrhyn  ap  0.  P.  &c. 

126  IL.  gadioaladr  :  J.  lewis  D.  ap  J.  ap  lioel  ap  gr:  &c. 
b.  V  kostowglwy th  i.e.  vpstarts  kymry ,  * 

127  Dol  y  Corslwyn  :  Rich:  Pugh  ap  Rowland  P.  &c. 
b,  Branes :  Humffre  Branes  ap  Morgan  B.  &c. 

128  IL.  sanan :  Tho:  Wynn  ap  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Gronw.  &c. 

130  Dryll  y  Pobydd :  Roger  Euance  ap  Edw:  Euance 
b.   Cynon  vcha  .-  John  Morris  fab  D.  Morris  &c.t 

131  Hafodtmos :  Iledd  llwyd  ap  Harry  llwyd  &c. 
133  Macsmor :  J.  Maesraor  ap  Rob:  M.  &c. 

135  Pentre  Avon  a  Moriin :  p.  Hugh  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

136  P.  Aron  :  Edw:  lloyd  ap  Roger  lloyd  &c. 
Fynnonddydd :  Rob:  lloyd  ap  hugh  lloyd  ap  Sion  &c. 
kwudor  in  Salop  :  S"'  Roger  a  S'  W.  Owens — brothers  &c. 

138  7'yfos  yn  y  deirnion :  Tho:  llwyd  ap  Rowland  llwyd  &c, 
b.  Table  of  the  desc"  of  Joljn  ap  Jeu:  gethin  Ac. 

139  p.  W.  Coetmor  o  v}  S.  pylston  tir  men  =  W.  &c. 

140  Botryddan :  Henry  Conwy  ap  W.  ap  S.  aer  C.  &c. 

142  Pentre  kynwrig  :  S.  Trevor  ap  S.  Trevor  ap  Roger  &c. 

143  Maesmawr  :  Edw:  lloyd  ap  Pierce  lloyd  &c. 

144  Rhuddallt :  Edw:  ap  Rondle  ap  S.  ap  S.  &c. 

145  Rhiwedog  :  Wm:  ap  Elissav  ap  W.  lloyd  &c. 

146  ILwyndedwydd :  Tho:  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c, 

K,.  armon  D.  heiriog :  D.  ap  Rich:  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

147  Rhywlas:  Cad"^  ap  S.  wynn  ap  Cad'  ap  Rob:  &c. 
Givedir :  Rich:  Wynne  ap  Syr  O.  W.  &c. 

149  Glaji  y  lly?/,  Penllyn :  Ho:  va"  ap  S.  ap  Ho:  &c. 

150  E.ys  Fcisir  :  Nicolas  ap  J.  ap  D.  lloyd  Ac. 

151  Y  Twr  Moel,  Y.  alyn :  Alexand'  wynne  ap  D.  wynne  &e. 

152  Tw7'  moel  y  Wyddgrig:  Rinald  ap  gr:  ap  Bleddin  &c. 


JOHN  DAVlES  RHIWLAS  AND  OTHERS.  905 

153  Bodimvydog .-  Tho:  yal  ap  Tho:  yal  ap  S.  wynn  &c. 

154  Woxoll  yn  Henllan  :  ffoulke  lloyd  ap  hugh  11.  &c. 

155  Plase  yn  ward :  Edw:  Thelwiill  ap  Simont  &c. 

159  Jf^ysfassi  a  Gelli  Gynan  :  S.  lloyd  ap  Edw:  lloyd  &c. 

160  Keweni :  S'  Tho:  Salusbri  ap  S'  Henry  ap  S--  S.  ap  J.  S.  &C. 
1(51    Coed  y  llai  (Leeswood)  :  S.  Eytin  ap  J.  Eytyn  &c. 

162  Plus  Teg  :  Eob:  Trevor  ap  S.  Trevor  ap  Rob:  &c. 
Herssedd :  Edw:  lloyd  ap  Eob:  lloyd  &c. 

163  Hanmer  or  Oicredd:  J.  hanmer  ap  S"^  Tho:  Hanmer  &c. 

164  IFens .-  W.  Hanmer  ap  Tho:  H.  ap  S''  W.  H.  &c. 

165  Emroll:  Syr  Roger  Puleston  apEog:  P.  ap  Roger  P.  ap  S''Edw: 

J.  Puleston  Judg  1658  ap  Rich:  P.  ap  Roger  ap  Sr  Edw:  P.  &c. 

166  ILanerch  embrys  :  Roger  ap  bumffre  ap  Gr:  person  Pencraig  &c. 
Nant  Conwy  :  Evan  ap  Jeuan  ap  Heilin  ap  Evan  &c. 

167  Maelor  Aired:  Andrew  Ellis  ap  Roger  Elli.s  ap  Humffre  &c, 

168  Bryn  hynallt :  S'  John  Trevor  ap  J.  T.  &c. 

169  Pentre  pant :  S.  Hanmer  ap  Rich:  H.  ap  D.  H.  &c. 

170  hrichieth  :  Rob:  Euance  ap  Edw:  Euance  &c. 

Braich  y  gist — IL.  armon  :  Tho:  Morris  ap  S.  ap  Eys  &c. 

171  y  Berth  ddu  a  bod  ysgallog :  Eob:  Wynn  ap  Hugh  gwyn  &c. 
kwm :  J.  Parry  ap  W.  parry  &c. 

172  Gartheryr  :  Hugh  Morris  ap  Reinald  morris  &c.  [Colonel 

175  &  215  Dyffryn  vielai  yn  LI.  fair  Dolhaiurn  :  J.   Wynn  ap  W.   wjnn  y 

176  Pantglas,  yspti  J. — Harri  vychan  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 

177  Y ffynogion:  Edw:  Prys  ap  J.  Prys  ap  Edw:  P.  &c. 

178  Garthtneilio,  ILangwni:  J.  wynn  ap  Cad''  wynn  &c. 
Maesbroc,  pentre  perfedd :  Edw:  gethin  ap  Tho:  gethin  &c. 

179  Henllan  Twysog :  S.  Parry  ap  Eic:  Parri  ap  Harry  &c. 

180  Maen  Twrog :  IFowlke  a  morgan  meib  Edm:  Prys  &c. 
Keisswyn :  J.  ilwyd  ap  f .  ap  D.  lloyd  &c. 

181  Estyn  hollwyn  kwchwillan  :  J.  W'ms  ap  Lwmle  W'ms  &c. 

182  &  137  Kwchwillan :  p.  W.  ap  W.  ap  W.  ap  gr:  ap  Eobyn 

183  Gartheryr:  p.  Morris  ap  J.  gethin  =  Ho:  &c. 
185  Hendwr :  Nathaniel  Jones  ap  Morris  Jones  &c. 

187  heseail  gyfarch  :  p.  HumiFre  ap  Mred:  ap  ]f.  &c. 
Hafod  Lwyfog  :  |.  lloyd  ap  J.  lloyd  ap  f .  &c. 

188  Elsmer  ivatle  :  IFrances  kynaston  ap  Edw:  K. 

189  Pentre  3fadog  :  Eob:  Eytyn  ap  S''  Eob:  Eylyn  &c. 
IFlgre  Tegaingl :  Edw:  Morgans  ap  Edw:  M.  &c. 

190  Bron  Heylog  :'  IFowlke  vychan  ap  INIorgan  v'n  &c. 
Yr  Hob :  Evs  Ilwyd  ap  D.  ap  Rob:  Ilwyd  &c. 

191  ILoran  ysaf:  J.  Ilwyd  ap  Tho:  Ilwyd  ap  Olvir  11.  &c. 

194  &  152  Bryn  euryn  :  Edw:  konwy  ap  Hugh  k,  ap  Edw:  &c. 

195  Rhydy  kroyse  :  Hwmffre  a  Ric:'p.  J.  Edwards  &c. 

196  Newton  :  Syr  Peeter  Newton  a  beriodes  Sian  vj  SiefFie  kyffin  hen  yn  14G7 

197  IL.  san  fraid  y  mechen :  Walter  a  R.  Lewis  meib  Lewis  ap  J.  &c. 

198  &  89  Broxyn  (c/ie*;)— The:  Tanad  ap  Edw:  Tanad  &c. 

199  &  102   Trefleth:  Eic:  Treuor  ap  J.  T. 

201  Crcesoswallt :  J.  Blodfol  ap  J.  B.  &c. 

202  Plus  llelo,  Derwen  ynial :  Eob:  ap  J.  ap  fthel  ap  Eys  &c. 
Gwyddelwern,  llidiart  gwinau  :  J.  ap  D.  ap  J.  np  R.  &e. 
Betws  gwefrl  goch  :  Eic:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  J.  &c. 

204  Esgwenen  :  p.  Eob:  Jones  ap  J.  To»  ap  Lewis  &c. 

205  Bryn  kynvrig  :  O.  wynn  ap  J.  W.  ap  0. 

b.  JLartgathen:  Syr  W.  Tho:  ap  W.  Thomas  &c. 
Pages  206-214  are  written  "  upside  down  "  and  treat  of  arms  in  English. 

216  Kinmel:  Col:  Syr  J.  Carter 

217  p.  S'  Eoger  kynaston  o  Elsabeth  =  Huraffre,  Onslo  &c. 

y  98430.  Q  Q 


906  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   144. 

218-9  Tables  of  the  descendants  of  Elizey  ap  gr:  ap  einion  and  o/ Morris  goch 

220  Hafodvnos,  IL.  gerniw :  p.  ]f.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Mred  =  S.  &c. 

221  Penrhyn,  IL.  drinio :  p.  Sieffre  Penrhyn  ap  O.  P.  &c. 

222  ILwi/ii  Tudmon,  IL.  y  myneyeh :  Roger  Pugh  ap  Tho:  Pugh  &c. 

223  y  Pant  Glas,  JL.  gad''  yngynlleth  :  p.  R.  ap  Gvtyn  ap  gr:  &c. 

225  Table  of  the  dese*'  of  Rodri  mawr 

226  Mynydd  maiL-n  :  Table  of  the  desc*'  of  E.  ap  D.  ap  ho.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  gethin. 

227  CAerbury  :  Edw:  Herbert  arg:  cherbury  &c. 

Tables  of  the  descendants  of  EWze  ap  gr:  ap  Einon  (228),  J.  ap  Enion  or  Cryaiarth 
(229),  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  Edayfed  gam  (230),  Bic:  Trevor  ap  S.  T.  (231),  Moris  ap 
j.  gethin  (232),  Einion  ap  gr:  U'n  ap  kynvrig  ap  osher  (233),  ll'n  ddv  ap  grr  ap 
jer:  foel  ap  gr:  fyohan  (234),  Bic:  llwyd  ap  Bob:  Uoyd  (235),  ll'n  ap  Jer:  drwyu- 
dwn  (236),  Madog  Heddwch  o  Rhiwlas  (237),  Owen  Glyndwr  (254),  Einion  ap  gr: 
ap  ll'n  (265). 

The  pages  following  are  written  "  upside  down." 

240      Awst  i  lias  ynghastell  i  &c.  Gtittor  glynn 

244  Ar  goel  vudyn  maer  glendyd    .... 

hyd  dydd  brawd  diwedd  breyder  Tudiir  Aled 

246  Owdtvl  i  berson  krintach 

Evrbarch  ym  gyfarch  Esgob  hael  addwyn    .... 
einioes  i  Esgob  ai  dadwisge  Rob:  Clydro 

245  Mars  rhiiid  bhlaidh  guraidh  gvrabh  gybhiavn  vn  &c. 

247  Neb  a  wyddai  no  fyddai  hwy  fowyd  na  mis    .... 
di  yn  farwa  dyn  y  forv  Anon 

260      Holl  drigoUion  kymrv  Ian    ...    . 

a  hyn  yn  rwydd  ar  ganiad  .  l6lfO  .  Gr:  ap  Evan 

251  Castell  march  :  gr:  Jones  ap  Syr  W.  Jones  &c. 

252  ILangedwyne  :  Rich:  Wyn  ap  morris  ap  J.  &c. 

263  meibion  J.  gethin  am  Madog  kyffin  am  Mad:  koch  Ac, 

255  Hendre  a  chlo-caenog :  Tho:  Morris  son  to  J.  Morris  &c. 

256  Dav  wr  aethon,  kyttyn  fiion 

ir  deml  draw  i  weddiaw  &c.  Anon 

258  Gvvn  nad  ta  gwae  enaid  tyn  &c.  S.  kent 

259  A.  garo  gvro  i  geraint  /  a  gill  i  fri  holl  ai  fraint  &(s. 

b.  Oud  tryfedd  yv  mhob  trofa  i  ddyn  i  awydd  i  dda  &c. 

c.  kaith  fyd  ko  enyd  kyfiowni  kamay  kymwys  fyw  &o. 

260  ir  mor  :  kableau  tonav  Uei  dynnv  bedaT  &c.  Anon 

b.  ir  gwenin  ;  knwing  ?  kanwsing  kawion  isel  kaiuk  &c.  „ 

c.  ir  Pain  :  fel  million  glowion  or  gwlith  /  ar  godre  &c.         „ 

d.  ir  kaliog  iayr :  klowais  gwir  adlais  wiwgloch  &c.  „ 

261  Yn  ol  blwydd  o  swydd  os  oeddwn  dlawd 
mewn  deled  mae  miliwn     .... 

a  lladd  a  malais  a  Hid  i> 

262  Pan  fo  gaithion  dinnion  ar  da  /n/  darfod  &c.  „ 
6.      Awnel  frad  afrad  efryd  o  dwyll    .... 

y  delon  ai  holl  davlv  » 

264  Gwrandawed  pob  Jenctyd  sy  yn  cafel  /  i  /  iechy[d]  .  .  . 
/i/  f yud  / i /  lawenydd  y  nefoedd  •  l6ifO  .  Anon 

267  Hvad  =  Bithead  /  hvaid  =  Bitheaid  /  Hob  =  Ihvdnhwch  &c. 

268  Copi  or  ystedfod  afv  ynghaerwys  Mai  26  1561  being  a  list  of 
patrons  and  graduates 

270  Llangedwine :  Bob:  ap  morris  buried  8  April  1572  ....  Morrii  Wynne 
was  buried  22  April  1635  and  Joan  kynaston  his  "  ^lefe  "  IC  Feby:  1632 

Aberkynlleth  :  Eich.  Wynne  was  buried  3  Dec.  1669— J.  Wynne  (born  at  1,1, 
gedwin  1634)  died  1672  and  Gmn  Griffith  his  mother  1640, 


THE  BOOK  OF  EDWARD  AP  DAVID.  907 

Bhiwlas :  Edward  Davies,  sono  to  the  said  Gwen  Gr.,  was  boru  20  Feby  1818 
and  buried  at  lilansilin  14  March  1680  (p.  269),  and  Margaret  his  widow  4  July 
1693  (p.  266),  J.  Davies  the  sonn  of  Hdw;  Davies  was  born  10  Oct.  1653  (p.  275). 

272  After  hing  Arthur  dayes  in  Anno  d'ni  1179  his  bones  was  found  in  the  -Ha 
of  Avalon  .  .  .  without  the  Alibie  of  glastenburio  &  seven  foot  within  the  earth  in 
a  hollow  elder  tree  &  over  the  bones  was  a  stone  h  a  orosse  of  lead  with  a  writing 
turned  towards  the  stone  wheriu  weare  ingraven  this  words  i  Hie  iacit  attpultua 
inclilus  Rex  Arihurus  in  Jiistila  Avalonia. 

H74  T)ie  Beginning  of  the  prinoipalitie  &  govemraent  of  Wales  h  the  names 
of  the  princes  thereof 

XIX,  29J-27,'i.  This  is  taken  xix  ffebr  .  1624 .  Memorandum  that  it  is  enacted 
that  all  debts  due  without  specialtie  &  not  inpleaded  three  yeares  after  the  date  of 
this  parlament  is  not  to  be  reoovered  by  reason  of  the  tyme  pretermitted,  Thelj 
follow  a  list  of  names  &c. 


MS.  145  =  Hen.  198.  JLyvyr  Edward  ap  Davyd.  Pedigrees 
and  a  few  poems.  Paper ;  7|  X  5|  inches ;  322  pages,  of  which  a  con- 
siderable number  are  dog-eared,  and  a  few  slightly  imperfect;  xvnth 
century ;  in  old  limp  vellum. 

The  principal  hand,  i.e.,  the  greater  part  of  pages  2.3-6,  35-6,  45-50,54-62, 
?l-298,  was  written  in  or  before  1641 — rhifedi  dolene  y  llyfir  yma  ydiw  vti  C 
0  deigen  ....  1641  (p.  292).  Pages  7-23,  27-8,  63-4,  251,  299,  311*,  313-16, 
are  in  a  small,  modern  looking  hand  of  about  1685  (pp.  11,  16)  ;  while  pages  3-0, 
8,14,22,  28-34,  37-44,  64-70,  311*,  317-18,  320-22,  iire  in  the  hand  of  John 
Davies  of  Ehiwlas. 

The  signature  o{  Edward  Davies  -1641  occurs  repeated!}',  and  the  principal  hand 
may  be  his  autograph.  Page  267  is  certainly  so ;  but  whether  the  statement  : — 
u  ehopi  kowir  o  lyfr  Lewis  gwynn  vicar  [_i6l6~2S~\  of  Llanrhaiadr  y  mochiiant 
applies  to  p.  267  only,  or  is  intended  to  cover  all  the  items  in  the  principal  hand 
(written  possibly  by  the  same  person)  comparison  with  the  Vicar's  book  can  alone 
show.  "  In  this  MS.,  is  much  of  the  handwriting  of  .lohn  Davies,  author  of  a  very  rare 
"  book,  A  Display  of  Heraldry  [1716].  The  present  volume  appears  at  one  time 
"  [1715  (p.  14),  1730  (p.  10]  to  have  belonged  to  John  Reynolds  of  Oswestry,  who 
"  was  Davies's  nephew,  and,  obtaining  his  MSS.t,  compiled  a  very  iucorreot  book, 
"  printed  at  Cliester  in  1739  "J.  It  seems  to  have  also  belonged  to  Eobert 
Edward  in  1741  (pp.  119-20)  j  to  David  Ellis  in  1759  (p.  33)  ;  and  to  John  Pryce 
(p.  63  &c.) 

Index :  Aber  Tannatt  to  Ynys  y  maergwyn 
6  Giler :  Ko:  Price  Baron  of  the  Exchequer 
9  Gelli  Aur :  Rich:  Vaughan  lord  of  Emlin  &c. 
ii.  Hordley  l6§5 :  Edw:  Kynaston  ap  Roger  &c. 
14-16  The  kynastons  of  Wotten,  Mortyrt  &  Bronywyn  . 
17  JLoran:  Edw:   Maurice  ap  Daniel  ap  Hugh 
h.  Park  y  Dretoen  :  Eob:  Powell,  Prof,  of  theology  &c. 

26  ILangedwyn :  J.  Owen  ap  Morris  ap  gr :  &c. 

27  Nant  Cryba  :  J.  Purcell  ap  Edw:  ap  Tho:  &c. 

b.  Chirk  Castell:  Sir  Tho:  ap  Sir  Tho:  ap  Rich;  Midlton  &e, 

c.  Plus  Teg:  Rob:  Trevor  ap  J.  Trevor  &c. 

28  Vaynor :  Georg  Devereux  ap  Sir  George  &c. 

29  Gwyddelwern:  Gr:  ap  Einon  &c. 

38  Maes  y  Neicadd :  W.  Wynn  son  of  Rob:  Wynn 

40  Gwehelyth  y  Maerdy :  Idnerfch  Benvras  lord  of  Maesbrook  &c. 

41  Dol  y  Glesyn  .  IfipS  .  J.  Iioyd  sone  of  Kob;  ILoyd  &c. 

44  Bryn  Hir  in  Trawsvynydd :  Rob:  ILoyd  sone  of  J.  Hjoyd  &c. 

45  Modfach — E^anvilling  :  W.  kyffyn  ap  Gr:  &c. 

41  Rhiwlas:  J.  ap  Arthur  ap  Edw:  &c.  49  J.  Ilwyd  ap  To:  &c. 
51  ILwynymaen,  Croesoswallt  .  i6/f1  .  Cap.  Ric:  lloyd  ap  Edw:  &c. 
55  FMfiforda:  Edw:  Ilwyd  ap  J.  Ilwyd  &c. 

*  There  are  often  two  or  more  hands  on  the  same  page. 

tSee  reference  in  the  text  to  llyfr  arall  [=iMS.  145]  Edward  ap  Dd:  (p.  217). 
%  Catalogue  of  the  Hengwtt  MSS.  by  the  late  W.  W,  E.  Wynne,  Esq.,  No.  198. 

QQ  2 


908  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  145. 

56  &  176  Mene7iey :  W.  Owens  fab  S'  J.  Owens  &c. 

57  JLansillin:  Ric:  Middelton  fab  fFowlke  midelton  &c. 

5g  Phuy  J[j.  sillyn .  The  wives  of  Ho:  ap  Morgan,  Tudyi-  fyclian, 
Ric:  Pylston,  Mad:  ap  Mred:  /  Gr:  vycli°  ap  gr:  or  rhuddallt,  The: 
ap  Hn,  JL'n  ap  Owen,  Ric:  ap  ho'l,  Gryffri  ap  kadwgau,  Sion  Evtyn, 
ffwlke  Middelton  (died  1630). 

63  Oliver  Cromwell  ap  Rich.  Cromwel,  ap  S'  Rich.  Williams  alias 
Cromwell  (o  ferch  Walter  Cromwell)  yr  hwn  S''  Rich,  oedd  fab  i 
Morgan  Williams  ap  W"  ap  Morgan  o  Nan  Church,  yn  Sir  Forganwg 
(ac  vn  or  priuie  Chambre  i  Hary  vii)  fab  J.  ap  Morgan  ap  Hoel  ap 
Madoc  Argl.  Kibion  ap  Alan  argl.  Cibion  &c. 

Morgan  Williams  =  ferch  Walter  Cromwell 

li 
Sr  Bicfa:  Williams  alias  Cromirell 

II 
Bich:  Williams  alias  Cromwell 

II 

Oliver  Cromwell 

1654 

64  Gicnnod :  meibon  J.  Wynn  fab  Rob:  Wynn  &c. 
b.  Brunei  issa :  Elizeu  ap  Owen  ap  Evan  &c. 

67  Havod  y  hioch :  J.  Roberts  son  to  Hugh  Roberts  &c. 

68  ILoydiarth :  The  issue  of  Ho:  Vaughan  ap  Ho:  ap  Gr:  &c. 

69  ILeicem  4-c.—Sf  J.  Salisbury  ....  Col.  T.  Salisbury  1676.  Ac. 

70  Acton  :  Rob:  Vychan  son  to  Rich:  &c. 

71  Aberkynlleth — IL.  gedwyn  :  Rich;  Wynne  fab  Morris  W.  &c. 
77  Yr  Hendwr  yn  y  dernion :  Mary  gwyn  etifeddes  Humff.  &c. 
79  Moylyrch,  IL.  sillyn :  Moris  Wynne  fab  W.  wynne  &c. 

84  Rhiw  Goch  =  Merionydd :  Elis  lloyd  baryster  ap  Rob;  Iloyd  &c. 

85  Trevor,  JL.  gollen :  J.  Trevor  fab  Mathew  T.  &c. 
87   Y  Garth  kegidva :  Edw:  Wynne  ap  Tho:  Wynne  &c. 

90  Y  Cleneney :  plant  Morris  ap  Elissev  ap  Morris  &c. 

91  Tregynon :  p.  Owen  ap  hoel  ap  O.  ap  Gr:  &c. 

92  Myfod,  Powys :  Andrew  Parrie  fab  Rob:  ap  Jenkyn  &c. 

93  Boitrhydan :  S^  J.  konwey  ap  J.  Conway  ap  J.  aer  k.  &c. 

94  Sarphle,  IL.  armon :  Tho:  llwyd  ap  J.  Uwyd  &c. 

95  Henvache  IL.  rhaiadr :  Edw:  Moris  ap  hoel  &c. 

98  Maes  Mawr,  Powys  :  llwyd  Peyres  fab  Edw:  Peyres  &c. 

99  Gartherydd :  Moris  Thomas  fab  Rinalld  &c. 

100  Meifod  y  glasgoed :  Roger  fychan  ap  shone  fychan  &c. 

101  Y  treforiaid :  Sion  trevor  fychan  ap  S.  trefor  &c. 

103  Y  Priddhwl  y  mlwy  Sillin :  Rob:  Uwyd  ap  Joseph  &c. 

104  Cyfronydd,  powys :  W.  Price  ap  Olvir  ap  J.  &e. 

105  Bryngwyti  ILanuechen :  Oluir  llwyd  fab  D.  ft.  &c. 

107  JLwydiarth  a  IL.  gedwyn :  Hearbart  fychan  ap  Syr  Rob:  v'n 

1 16  Powys :  Edw:  gray  argl:  powys  fab  J.  gray  &c. 

117  Y  golva  tre  Svchart :  Jeffrey  Gr:  ap  lewys  &c. 
119  Gartherydd:  W.  kyffyn  ap  J.  kyflFyn  &c. 

121  ILansillyn :  W.  Morris  fab  Lewys  fab  morris  &c. 

123  Jachav  y  Byners :  Griifiyth  Byner  &c. 

124  Caer  Gai,  Merionydd:  Roulant  Vaughan  ap  J.  V,  &c. 

125  Glaskoed  II.  sillin :  Watkin  kyffyn  ap  gr:  &c. 

126  IL.vorda:  Edw:  llwyd  fub  J.  llwyd  &c. 

b.  Maelor,  Sonlley :  Rob:  Sonlley  ap  Rob:  S.  &c, 

12H  Mifod:  Humffrey  ap  S.  ap  ]f. 

132  Yfoelas:  Rob:  Wynn  ap  Cadwaladr  &c. 

133  ||Dialedd  yw  hon  hyd  elawr     .... 

moddion  gwael  mfldde  ini  gyd  Ry&ap^Harri, 


THE  BOOK  OP  EDWARD  AP  DAVID.  909 

^135  Bodidrist,  Jal:  ^o"  llwyd  fab  Evan  llwyd  &c. 
144  Rhiiv  Saeson :  Ethelystan  Owen  ap  Moris  O.  &c. 

146  ILandrillo:  Tho:  ap  J.  ap  Tho.  ap  J.  &c. 

6.  Eglwijs  vach  :  Sieffre  holant   ap  hugh  holant  Ac. 

147  Abertanad:  Eys  tanad  fab  To:  Tanad  &c. 

149  Eastyn :  Andrew  llwyd  fab  Eich:  llwyd  &c. 

150  Flas  Johjn  :  Tlio:  Price  fab  D>^  Elis  P.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

151  Trefnaney :  J.  Mathews  ap  James  ap  Mathew  &c. 

152  Kegidva:  Gr:  llwyd  ap  Jemwnt  llwyd  &c. 

153  Yffinant — IL.  sanffraid :  Rob:  ap  Einallt  &c. 

154  Gwydwr :  Syr  Rinli  Gwyn  ap  Syr  J.  Gr.  ap  Morris  &c. 

158  Vcheldre :  Peeter  meirig  ap  Edm:  M.  &c. 

159  Naney  :  Hugh  Nanney  ap  gr:  Nanney  &c. 

161  Gwestyn,  Croesoswallt :  Hugh  Morris  ap  "VV.  &c. 

162  &  171  The  Petigree  of  Charles  ii 

163  Rhandiroedd  Poxoys  and  their  partition  :'  kynta  dyn  yn  ol 
ytifeddion  brochwel  ysgithrog  a  feddianodd  arglwyddinith  bowys  fv 

fleddyn  ap    kynvyn Owen   argl:   glyndyferdwy  .  .  1400    y 

kyfodes  kyinrv  gidag  ef  .  .  .  .  1468  a  ryfel  a  fv  rhwng  hawys  ai 
hewythrvdd  am  y  tir  .  .  .  .  ends :  Ric:  argl:  powys  .  .  a  beriodes 
marged  merch  argl:  Awdle  ag  vddynt  i  bv  fab  a  march. 

172  Bargeding :  Einalld  a  Eoger  meib  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 
0.  Bodlwiddan  :  Tho:  ap  Humffre  ap  Tho:  Ac. 

173  Sir  James  karofft  ap  Sir  Ric:  krofEt  &c. 

174  Y  Drenewydd :  Sir  J.  Price  Bart:  ap  Edw:  price  &c. 

175  '  Jach  brenhines  elzabeth '  V3  Harri  fab  harri  &c. 

177  Pennant  MeJangell :  J.  ap  Owen  ap  gr:  &c. 

178  Sir  Eys  ap  To:  ap  gr:  ap  nikolas  &c. 

179  YJtollffrin:  Edw:  Edwards  ap  O.  ap  Edw:  &c. 

183  Corsygedol:  gr:  fychan  ap  Eic:  ap  Rees  fychan  &c. 

185  Oogerddan  ^  Aberhechan :  S''  Eic:  price  ap  S'  J.  Price  &c. 

188  Eutyn :  keuric  Etyn  ap  S"^  gerad  Eytyn  &c. 

189  Dol  y  fori  ddil :  Eic:  Pugh  ap  gr:  pugh  &c. 

190  {Cefn  bodig)  Penllyn :  John  fychan  ap  Jo°  vychan  &c. 

191  Mostyn  :  Syr  Eoger  Mostyii  ap  S'  Tho:  M.  ap  Syr  Roger  M. 

ap  Syr  Tho:  ap  W.  &c.  followed  by  the  5  plas. 

195  y  ddol  yn  ydeirnion  :  Moris  Jones  fab  Humffrey  J.  &c. 

196  Penffro :  Henri  iarll  penfro  ap  W.  &c. 

197  Eunant,  Uanwddyn :  Edw:  Wynne  ap  E.  W.  ap  Edw.  W.  &c. 

199  &  242  Nanclwydne  Bontygo  :  Eubule  Thellwall  ap  J.  Thell- 

wall  of  Mathauflrn  ap.  J.  Th.  ap  J.  Wynn  Th.  &c. 

200  Mowthwy :  J,  argl.  mowthwy  ap  W.  wilcoc 

202  ILansanan  :  p.  W.  ap  if.  llwyd  =  Tho:/  Eliz.  /  Alls  etc. 

203  Bodimvydog  yn  Jal :  Tho:  ]f al  ap  Tho:  f  al  ap  J.  wynn  &c. 

204  &  265   Ow:  Glyndwr  ap  gr:  vychau  or  Euddallt  &c. 

205  Keohivedd  vchaf :  p.  W.  ap  gr:  ap  Robin  =  W.  /  Tho:  /  Rob:  &c. 

206  Yglyn,  Ardydwy  :  Rob:  Wynne  ap  W.  ap  Morris  W.  &c. 

207  Y plas  vcha,  ILangedwyn  :  Eic:  Wynne  ap  W.  Wynne  ap  J. 

211  JF.  Eyttyn  ap  J.  ap  Jamys  eyttyn  &c.  [kyffin  &c. 

212  Rhiwlas :  Eich:  fEowlkea  ap  Eic:  ap  J.  ap  Moris  &c. 

213  Blodwell  vechan :  Eob:  Mathews  fab  J.  Mathews  &c. 

214  Ynys  y  Alaengicyn :  Humphrey  Wynne  ap  J.  Wynne  &c. 

215  Tre  wylan  :  Edw:  Tanad  ap  Eob:  Tanad  ap  Edw:  &c. 
217   IVrexam  {Bersham)  :  J.  Wynne  ap  D.  ap  hoel  &c. 
221  Mathafarn  :  Rolant  ap  S.  ap  hugh  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  &c. 
223  Dtvddwr:  Hugh  Derwas  ap  Eic:  Derwas  ap  J.  &c, 

225  JL.  sanffraid  y  niechen  :  Morgan  ap  J.  Dd:  goch  &c, 

226  Meifod;  Humijhrey  Wynne  ap  W.  ap  shone  &c. 


910  PENIAETH  MAlJUSCRIPT  145. 

227  IL.  ymlodwell,  tre  y  Bryn  :  D.  Morris  ap  J.  Tho:  ap  Morris  Ac. 

228  Y  main  y  meifod :  p.  Mred:  [ap]  H'n  ap  gr:  Uwyd  &c. 

229  Plus  engion,  Fj.fair  D.  ^.— Tho:  llwyd  ap  J.  Roger  llwyd  &c. 

231  Moelfrey,  LI.  sillin  :  Ric:  llwyd  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 

232  Yfaenol,  Trefaldwyn :  Arthur  price  ap  Edw:  price  &c. 

233  Bododdon,  LI.  vylling :  Edw:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
b.  fy  medwar  prif  gas  erioed  &c.     c.  fy  newis  beth  er  yn  was  &c. 

234  &  252   Trawsvynydd :  J.  ap  Morgan  vychan  ap  J.  morgan  &c: 

235  Trefedryd^Ll.  gedwyn :  Nathaniel  Moris  fab  Tho;  Moris  &c. 
243  lledrod:  Edw:  ap  Tho:  ap  Edw:  ap  Tho:  &c. 

245  Maes  Mochnant :  Ric:  Wynne  fab  Rob,  W.  fab  Morris  &c. 

247  Rhiwedog :  J.  llwyd  ap  Wni:  llwyd  ap  Elise  &c. 

249  Mochnant  v.  rhaiad:  Rob:  llwyd  ap  Olvir  D.  ll'd  ap  S.  deiiddwr 
251        „  „  Lewys  Moris  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

253  Deyddiorn  :  Gr:  Penthryn  fab  W.  Pentbryn  &c, 

254  Dolohren  :  Charlas  llwyd  fab  shone  llwyd  &c. 

255  glunhafon'rhyd  y  plas :  Tho:  llwyd  ap  Rob:  &c. 

259  Plwy  kedwyn :  J.  Lewys  ap  Moris  ap  Rob:  ap  Tho:  &c. 

260  Penllyn  :  p.  hoel  vychan  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

261  Ty  yn  bwlch,  JL.  rhaiadr :  Simon  fab  Olvir  fab  Jeffrey  &c. 

263  IL.  frothen  :  W.  Lewis  Anwyl  ap  Rob:  ap  Moris  &c. 

264  Main  :  Humphrey  llwyd  fab  Olvir  llwyd  &c. 

266  V  bi-enhinllwyth  kymrv  .  267,276  &3I7  XV  llwyth  gwynedd 
268   Garthgylynyn  fawr  y  mochnant :   T.  ap  Morys  v'n  ap  R,  &c. 
270  Kaethle,  Towyn,  Mer: — J.  Vychan  ap  Jenkyn  ap  J.  ap  ^.  &c. 

272  Gwercles :  Huraffrey  Hughes  ap  Rich:  hughes  &c. 

273  Koyn:  John  Blodwel  ap  Ric.  B.  ap  J,  B.  &c. 

274  Abermarlais :  S'  Harri  Jones  ap  S'  Tho:  Jones  &e. 
276  ILicydiarth :  p.  hoel  vychan  ap  hoel  ap  gr:  &c. 

281  Ysirydalyn :  gr:  ap  pelyn  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 

282  ti-e  y  sgrwgan :  J.  O.  ap  J.  ap  Moris  &c. 

283  jf  Ho:  ap  Madog  ap  Jer:  goch  o  fochnant 

Y  gwr  yn  y  graig  arian     .... 

am  hoedel  howel  ap  Madog  Givillim  ap  fevan 

287  Swine :  Bob:  kyfTyn  ap  Roger  kyflyn  &c. 
289  &  311  Pvmp  hosiowgllwydd  ynghymrv  :  Blnidd  rhvdd  &c. 

291       fy  anwyl  gredigion  y  Cedyrn  ar  gwenion     .     ,     ,     . 

or  porth  gwedi  farrio  yn  gaiedig  || 
283   llgwraig  Gr:  ap  D.  goch  =  marred  V3  tvdvr  ap  ^er:  &c. 

296  Brimho :  John  wyiin  np  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  Edw:  &c.. 

297  Glan  kynlleth :  Edw:  Moris  ap  D.  Morris  ap  Mred:  &c. 
299  Rhiwias :  Edw:  Dauies  ap  D.  Dauies  ap  Edw:  D.  &c. 

302  Penlre  Pant :  Siou  Hanmer  ap  Ric:  Hnnmer  &c. 

303  Bodlith :  D.  lloyd  ap  Howel  ap  Morris  &c. 

304  Cynlleth :  Table  of  the  descend'^  of  ]f.  Gethiu 

305  Rhiwias,  Penllyn :  J.  Pris  ap  W.  Pris  ap  J.  Pris  &c. 

306  Ednal  ne  Sam :  Ric:  lloyd  ap  Edw:  lloyd  &c. 

807  Moicthuy :  Gr:  ap  Gwenwynwyn  ap  O.  cyfelioc  &c. 
310  Ric:  Earle  of  Carbery  ap  S''  J.  Vauglian  &c. 
b.  Arwyslli ;  Ho:  ap  J.  ap  O.  ap  Trahayrn  <$c. 
811    Edwyn  freBin  Tegeiugl  ap  grouo  ap  Ein:  ap  Ho:  Dda  &c. 
312  p.  Edw:  Thelwal  o  Lantanat  a  phlas  y  Ward  &c. 
813  Aleth  ab  Alun  hen  king  of  Dyvet  &c. 
318  Koran  vcha :  plant  Moris  ap  Meredith 
320  Achau  Cadwaladr  fendigaid 
322   Tre  r  Bryn :  Henry  ILoyd  fab  Berkley  lloyd  &Ci 


THE  COMMOTES  AifVt  PAEI3HES  OF  WALES,  911 

No.  146  =  Hen.  234.  The  Scripture  GENEALOGY  beginning 
at  Noali  &c.  To  which  is  added  The  GENEAr.oGT  of  the  Caesars,  British 
Kings  ....  also  a  display  of  Herauldky  &c.  By  John  Eeyuolds  of 
Oswestry.  Chester  :  Printed  by  Roger  Adams  for  the  author  .  1739. 
215  pages  ;  half  bound. 

This  very  scarce  book  has  always  been  kept  with  the  Hengwrt  MSS. 


MS.  147  =  Hen:  MS.  99.  A  list  of  the  Cantreds,  COiMMOTES, 
and  Parishes  of  Wales,  Trystan  4-  Essyllt,  the  Wonders,  the  Chief 
Elvers,  Towns,  Roads  and  Divisions,  the  Nationalities  &  Languages  of 
the  Island  of  Britain,  Measurements,  the  Saxon  Heptarchy,  the 
EiSTEDVOD  of  1523,  a  Eoyal  Feast,  Pedigrees,  and  Heraldry.  Paper  ; 
8x6  inches  ;  244  pages;  circa  1566;  in  old  vellum  covers,  but  partly 
loose  with  the  text  slightly  imperfect  at  margins  of  pnges  l-o. 

This  Mi3.  is  iu  two  hands.  On  page  186  we  read:  "Haw  vn  John  up  Jvan  o  sir 
frechenog  o  emyl  tie/  drystan  a  ysgrifenodd  y  llyfr  hwn  oil  [pp.  1-230]  os  gwir  a 
glowais  i  gan  John  Johns  o  sgelviog  .  Y  llyfr  hwn  yr  owran  sydd  eiddo  Thomas  ap 
fvanohendre  forfydd  yn  Edeirnionymlhwy  korwen  [see  Pen:  MSS.  157,  169, 173]. 
Pages  231-44  are  iu  the  autograph  of  Simwnt  Vychau.  There  are  a  few  margiaalla 
&c.  in  otlier  hands.  The  name  of  Johamies  Lloyd  occurs  on  page  78,  and  of  Hugh 
Vaughan  of  Hengwrt,  lyO'S,  on  cover  etc. 

The  following,  written  in  a  contemporary  hand,  are  interesting  specimeni  of 
folklore : — 

Yu  Sir  ddinbych  y  mac  plwyf  a  elwir  Uau  verrys  /  ag  yno  y  mae  Jiyd  y  gyfarlhfa  / 
ag  ynyr  hen  amser  y  doe  gwn  y  wlad  y  gid  y  Ian  y  Kyd  bono  y  gyfarth  ag  nyd  oedd 
y  fentre  vyned  y  sbio  betli  oedd  yno  nes  dyfod  urien  Eeged  a  fifyn  doyth  y  Ian  y 
Kyd  [n]y  wele  yno  ddim  ond  merch  yn  golchi  ag  yno  tewi  or  kwn  ar  Cyfarth  ag 
ymhafel  o  urien  Eeged  ar  verch  ag  ymweithredy  a  hi  ag  yna  y  dwad  hithe  ben- 
dith  ddyw  ar  y  traed  yth  ddygoedd  yma  para  heb  y  [nte]  achos  bod  ynhyngedfen  i 
olchi  yma  nes  enill  m[ab]  o  griston  /  a  merch  wyii  y  vrenin  anyfwn  a  dyred  di 
yma  am  ben  y  flwyddyn  ag  di  y  gay  y  mab  ag  velly  y  dayth  ynte  ag  y  Cafas  yno 
vab  amerch  nyd  amgen  noc  owein  ab  *urien  /  a  morfydd  verch  *eirien,t 

iV.  Corn  bran  g  al  e  d  oedd  vn  or  tri  thlws  ar  ddeg  o  vreniu-dlyssejjynys 
brydain  /ag  yno  dayth  myrddin  y  erchi  y  tlysse  hyny  at  bawb  He  y  ddoyddynt  ag  y 
Cytynoedd  pawb  os  efe  gaffe  gorn  bran  galed  y  Cae  gantyn  hwyutey  /  dan  dybieid 
nachae  ef  ddim  or  Corn/ag  er  hyny  fo  gafas  myrddin  y  Corn  ag  wedy  hyny  vo 
gafas  y  Cwbwl  ag  aeth  ag  hwy  yr  tu  gwydyr  ag  yn  hwy  byth  mwy  [sic].t 

Hi.  Corn  bran  galed  a  gafas  erculys  jax  ben  saint  tawryi  / gwedy  y  iadd  jag  yno 
y  gwlychoedd  gwraic  saint  tawrys  giys  erculys yngwaed  saint  tawrys  affan  gwisgocdd 
crculys  y  Cris  ny  allwyd  byth  y  dyny  o  am  dano  nes  yr  Cris  y  vwytta  y  Cic  ar  Croen 
hyd  yr  esgyrn  a  lladd  crculys  yn  varw.§ 

1  ILyma  y  mod  y  mesyrwyd  ag  y  Ranwyd  ag  y  Rifwyd  kantrefydt  a 
chymyday  holl  gymrylf  &c. 

This  list  is  a  transcript  of  Pen:  MS.  163  pp.  57-60  (9.1).),  or  of  the  same  original. 
For  another  copy  see  Cardiff  MS.  15  (Vh.  2936). 

5  Bellach  Souiwn  am  y  fair  Sir  urdteg  y  syit  yn  holl  gymry. 
ay  trefyi  ay  din  essyd  ay  hymyday  ay  heghuysytt** 

There  is  a  similar  list  in  the  hand  of  Dr.  John  Davies  of  Mallwyd,  at  the  end  of  a 
MS.  written  by  John  Brooke  of  MowSwy  [1590-1],  which  is  now  [1900]  iu  the 
possession  of  the  Rev.  E.  Peris  Williams  of  Wrexham.  The  variant  readings  from 
this  MS.  are  indicated  hy  figures. 

There  is  auother  list  in  Cardiff  MS.  15  (Ph.  2936)  transcribed  direct,  as  it  would 
seem  from  pecuHar  spellings,  from  Pen.  MS.  147.  The  few  variant  readings  are 
indicated  by  the  letters  of  the  alphabet. 

*  Uiien  was  apparently  written  first  of  all  in  all  cases  except  the  last,  but  alt 
have  been  altered  into  "  ei'rieu." 
t  On  inner  margin  of  p.  10  and  outer  margin  of  p.  11. 
X  On  inner  margin  of  p.  14.  §  Maigm  of  p.  15. 

%  This  list  of  the  Cantreds  has  corrections  in  the  hand  of  Sir  Thomas  WiliemS.' 
»♦  The  notes  indicated  by  *,  f,  t>  *«■  "''^  ^'o™  '''''  ^^^■'  '■"■>  ^*°'  ^'^^' 


912 


PiiiJiAETa  Manuscript  14fi 


There  are  still  other  lists  in  Cardiff  MS.  14  [Ph.  6371]  written  by  John  Jones  o{ 
Gelli  Lyvdj-  in  May  1606.  The  first  list  is  practically  the  same  as  that  in  Pen.  MS. 
147,  but  omitting  the  market  particulars  -which  are,  however,  given  in  the  second 
list,  together  with  a  few  churches  omitted  in  the  first  list.  (See  Catalogue  of 
Cardiff  MSS.  in  vol,  ii.  of  the  Eeport  on  Welsh  MSS.) 


hwrmL'd  malldraelh 

llan  Gydwaladr 

II.  y  berffro 

11.  veiriau 

11.  trefdraeth^ 

11.  gwyfeu 

11.  gristiolys 

11.  geinwetf 

[Tal  y  llyn  .  Mair'] 

11.  hen  eglwys^ 

[11.  vair  yu  Nin  tryfor'] 
hwmwd  menai 

11.  5wyn  [Dwyuwen'] 

niwf  bwrch 

11.  geinwen 

11.  gaffo 

11.  idan* 

[11.  ddins«] 

II.  edwen'' 

11.  Seiniolt  [vabi,  =»] 

11.  Ridfelg 

11.  ffiuau  [Vinam'-']  y 

11.  V'el  ysgcifiog 

11.  gefni  [Cyngar'] 

tref  gayan^f 

11.  wen  vayn  yuglyn'' 
Eos  [Rhoscolyn'] 

[11.  g>vyllog  .  Gwrdduw 
Gwrddell'] 

[Coedanaii  .  Bleuwydd'] 

[Uannerch  y  medd .  Mair'] 

11.  fair'  [yn'  y  Cymwd='] 
h.  llifon  [lUwon'^'\ 

[Cappel    y  Geirn  .  t  . 
vcheJsaint'] 

[Cappel  y  Ginon'] 


Sir  Fon 

mayloc' 

llach  "led' 

[Ceirchiog  .  y  Grog'] 

II.  bey  Ian 

tre  walchmai' 

bod  wroc"* 

11.  gwylloc'' 

U.  drygarn 

Uech  gynfarw'* 

[Rhod  y  geidio'] 

[U.  fair  yngwaredog'] 

11.  y  trisaint" 

bod  edyrn" 

11.  lUbio 

[11.  Tochwdw'] 

[U.  edeyrn'j 

11.  V'el  yn  howyn 

II.  fair  ynebwU 

ll.»  'Vghenill' 

[11.  san  ffred'] 

[C'apel  oljchwyd  Cybi'] 

.  talebolion 
kaer  gybi'^ 
11.  babo 
II.  fwrog 

11.  fachraith  [Vachreth^^] 
11.  faethly 
11.  Ryddlad 
11.  fflewyn 
'llan  ddygwel'] 

II.  vyngwen'] 

11.  Berwas'] 
fl,  figail'8 
11.  y  Saysant" 
II.  fair  ynghowrnwy 
11.  Rwydrys 


II.  fechell 

U.  badric 
t.  twrkelyn* 

11.  eleth'8  "frenin 

11.  eilian'" 

Ros  beirio^" 

llawen  Uwyfo^* 

[11.]  dyfrydog 

koed  dane° 

taal  y  llyn^^ 

11.  V'el  tyrer  barS 

'11.  V'el  ymhenros'^ 

[II.  eiddigi] 

11.  allgo 

plwjf  elgrad 

[11.  ynuwsaint'] 
:.  tindaythwy 

11.  fair  ^ymythafarn  cithaf 

HI.  faystr° 

II.  8yfnan 

y  pentraeth° 

II.  sadi\Tn 

11.  Sona 

U.  y'el2«glinsilwy'> 

II.  iestin 

[Llan  bedr2=] 

[LI.  vairymmhenrhoi^] 

[Penmynydd    aliat    11. 
Gradivel^'J 

II.  siriaF 

[11.  goed  neu  gowrda^] 

11.  y  saint 

•saint  kadrin-' 

11.  degfantt 

U.  fair  ymhwU  gwingill 

11.  dysilio  Ixx.  [73='] 


'  In  MS.  John  Brooke  o  Vowddwy.     '  Beuno,  added       '  Cerrig  Ceinwen 

'  neu  II.  y  saint  Uwydion       *  llan  Nidan  ''  llan  Edwin 

'  11.  vaelog  "  llech  ylched  '  Morhaiarn,  added 

"  (dial  Caergybi  vechan  "  placed  in  k.  menai  in  MS.  J.  B. 

'-  llan  gynvavwy  '"  Saiian  ac  Afan  ac  Evan,  added 

"  llanyngheneth  [II.  yngheaell'-"]       '"  placed  in  k.  lliwon  in  MS.  J.  B. 

'"  neu  Wyndeyrn  '' Marcel  a  Marceli,  added. 

w  neu  Amlwch  ""  Uanelianneu  Caerwedog        -"  Bodewryd  added  lafer 

"  llan  Wen  llwyfo  ^2  I'aj  y  ]]yn,  neu  Colyn  moel  -■*  3'n  hafarn  eirhaf 

'^  neu  llanvair  ■'  In  the  commote  of  Turkelyn  in  MS.  J.B.       -^  Din  silwy 

2'  II.  seirioel  ''^  11.  Saint  y  kathrin  (oe/  llan  faes)  ^  In  MS.  J.  Jones. 

•  In  Cardiff  MS.  •'  ynghelj  n  ros  '  y  uey  ball 

■•  ylched  "  Han  ynghendl  '  not  in  Cardiff  MS. 

I  11,  beder  ''  H-  tihangel  fid  silwen  eiddcw  neu  glin  lilwy 

'  p.  11.  St.  Kathrine  °  Omitted  in  MS.  J.  B.  ■■  retraced  later. 

t  written  mio  [newbwroh  ai  Rrosvr^']  J  ab  [y-']  bl[oeg]  iti  maryin. 

£  [11.  Kedivel-"]  ym  hen  myuydd  ymonag  yn  hwnw  ydd  oedd  briflys  Owain  ah 
Hired;  ab  tydyr  fychan  hendad  y  brenin  harri  seithved  ag  yny  fan  hyn.    [Gearfi/i/'] 

ir  y  mae  amlwd  [hamlet-  o^"]  gwmwd  menai  yn  ynys  gybi  [a  elwir  Wen  vavn 
yngolyn  Rns^'] 

*  Second  series  iu  MS.  J.  Jones  adds  Bodevryd^",  LI.  WeiiUwyd''  and  LI.  V'el 
tal  'I  llyn--.    These  are  apparently  repetitious. 

\\  ac  yn  plwy  hwnw  y  mae'r  dre  sir  yr  hwn  elwir  y  dyvr  [aeu  Bew'J  mares  ag  j  no 
y  mae  dinas  n>ttrcbc»d  bob  sadwrn. 


THE  COMMOTES  AKD  PAfilSflEg  OF  WALES. 


913 


SiE  Gaer  nAbfon 

[kymwd  II  Krevddijn-'] 
11.  gynfarn' 
11.  gwstenyn 
P.  yr  eglwys  Ros 
P.  tydno-  'uwch°  konwy" 
[llys  faen*] 

I'^Arllechwedd  uso/'j 
P.  mair  o  aber  konwy 
P.  gyffins 
11.  gylynin 
P.  kaer^  Kyn» 
11.  bedyr  [y^]  kenin 

[^Arllechwedd  vchap] 
P.  y  Swy  gyfylchi 
11.  fair  fechan 
p.  abergwy[n]  gregiu 
11.  llechid 
11.  8ygai* 
[Cappel  Curig^] 
bangor  fawr 

yngwyneS 
U.  gedol' 
11.  beris 
11.  SeiDiolen 
11.  V'cis  yn  Kyc 
11.  fair  is  y  gaer 
11.  beblicf 
y  bettws  garmon 

"yn  hal  y  llec[h] 
11.  wnda 
11,  faglan 

11.  dwrog  [11.  Din  Eok^^l 
11.  llyfni 
p.  kylynoc  [fawr^J 

yn  arfon 

k.  yfionytii 
p.  ael  hayarn 
p.  beS  kelert 
11.  V'el  y  pBnant 
pen  morfa 


p.  dol  pen  maen 

p.  krikieth" 

U.  gynbayarn'' 

P.  treflys 

P.  ystyndwy  , 

11.  armon 

11.  gybi 

trP  chwmutd'  thjn 

(Abererch"  .  11.  gowrda) 

P.  karn  'gywch'" 

P.  y  pistyll 

P.  net'yn 

11.  edym  .  [Edeyrn']. 

II.  gedyru° 

11.  geidio" 

P.  tydweiloc 

P.  y  Riw 

11.  y  pedwar  saint 

y  penllych'2 

11.  iestin 

11.  gian 

11.  "engainf  frenin 

11.  bedjocj 

11.  fihangel 

P.  pen  Ros 

11.  fair  yn  l]yn'< 

bod  fayarn'' 

P.  melldyrn 

bryn  kroes 

nan"  gwnadl 

bod  frenin'? 

p.  aber  daron'^ 

p.  (dineio§)°  [Deneio^-^] 

p.  I'falrygi' 

11.  dydweu 

p.  botwnoc 

k.  nant  konwy 
pen  macbno^" 
del  wySelan' 
11.  V'el  y  bettws 
11.  Kychwin 
P.  trefriw''    Ix.viii  [^'O^-] 


SlK  FerionyS 
/(.  ardydwy 

11.  fyrothen    ^   8  yw  iiiib 

p.  ftyst  ynioc-' 

p.  men  twroc  ['maen'-] 

11.  dekwy[n--] 

11.  fihangel  y  traeth[au'J 

11.  danwg 

11.  fair 

11.  beder 

[Cappel  Harddlech'] 

11.  enSwy[n'] 

11.  Swywe 

11.  aber 

11.  ylldyd 

p.  traws  fynyS 

h.'tadlybont  \_ar  Synni--'\ 
11.  fachraith  [Vachreth'^] 
p.  ysbytty  gwanas-'' 
p.  dol  y  gelle 
11.  gylynin 
11.  egrin 

h.  ystymaniel-* 
11.  V'el  y  ponant 
taal  y  llyn 
tywyu  myrionyS 
p.  penal 

h.  mowSwy 
p.  mallwyd''' 
11.  y  moTTSiTy-' 

k.  penllyn 

11.  ywch  y°  llyn^^ 

11.  gywair" 

11.  y  kil" 

11.  fawr  ymhcnllyn''* 

II.  Serfel. 

k.  ydeirnioji 
11.  drillo 
II.  gar 
p.  korwen-'  (11.  silieu)". 


'  U.  gynfran  [also  J.  J 
■>  Cae  Kbun  .  Mair 


-  LI.  dudno  '  y  Gjffin  .  JIair. 

'  y  Rng  ''  yn  nhal  y  Ilyu  [also  J.  ,1.] 

Eiddionydd  »  In  MS.  J   B.  »  S.  Catherin,  added 

'"  Carn  Gawch  [J.  Jones  omits  k.  gvwch  in  Lij  first  list,  but  gives  it  in  his  second.] 


Eiuion 
"=  torn  out  of  MS.  J.  C. 
"  LI.  vaelrhys 
--  In  MS.  J.  Joues. 
^■'   Ysiymanner 
-'  II.  gower 


"  llangrickio  \_sic']  '-  y  penllech 

'^  U.  vawr  yn  lleyu  '^  Bod  fuan 

''  Bod  verin  '^  Hywyn,  added 

2»  Tudclud,  added  ='  ffesliniog .  Mihagel . 

-''  Cappel  gwanas  i  f euan  fedyddiwr . 

2'  Tydecho,  added  "■  Daniel,  added 

28  llanyckil .  Beuno.  ""  Mael  a  Sulien,  added.  Gweryl  goch 

'"  In  MS.  J.  Jones,  all  the  churches  in  the  two  ArllechweS  are  placed  in  k.  vwch 

konwy,  except  Aber  konwy  whicb  he  places  in  k.  y  krevSyn. 
•  is  I"  Kae  Rhfln  '  geddol 

<'  11.  gynhaenan  '  A.  eirch  '  gwych 

8  engan  =  Eigneion  ''  fabrys  '  dolydd  Elen 

^  Trefrhyw— las  °  Omitted  iu  MS.  J.B. 

*agyn"y   plwy   hwmv   y  mae  y  plas   yny  penryn  gwraiddyn  bonyddignvydd 

Icymry. 

t  ^g  yn  y  V^'^y  hwmv  y  mae  tre  gaer  narfon  a  marcbnad  bob  sadwrn 

J  daywoffrwm  y  bedruc  Rag  Kawjren  [  =  ?  gangrene] -in  margin    '^Cancrau' 

in  Cardiff  MS.  15. 
I  (Yu  r  hwu  blwyf  y  mac  tref  BwIIelif) 


914 


pbniamh  manuscript  ]47. 


11.  ffyred  ynglyn 

dyfyrdwy 
11.  gwyS  elwern 
11.  ael  hayarn 
p.  bettws  gwyifyl  gocli 
11.  V'el  llyu  myfyr  [37'] 

Sin  DiMBECH* 

[swyS'  Sinbych"  nev'  yr 

Eglwys  wen-] 
[Capel  Dinbeoh'] 

(Hillary) 
11.  Syfnoc' 
nanklyn 
hen  Han 
11.  gwm  dinmel'' 
p.  keric  y  dij  diou' 
p.  ysbytty  ifau° 
11.  Ewst 
11.  Soged 
11.°  eglwys  fach" 
11.  san  ifraid' 
11.  drillo  [yn  Klios=] 
11.  eilian  [Elian'] 
y  bettws  [Michael-] 
11.  dylas  [Ddvlns'] 
Ky61ant° 
p.  aber  gele 
11.  sain  sior 
11.  yfyS 

11.  fair  Sol  hayarn 
11.  gcrniw 
11.  gwytheria' 
11.  sanau^[Eleri2] 


Kantre  D.  Klwtd' 

11.  ynys  [Saeran^] 

p.  y  gyfEyllioc'" 

p.  tiylokaynoc" 

p.  y".drewen  annial'^ 

[U.  V'el  Uyn  myfyr^] 

[Cappel .  aelhaearu'] 

11.  elidan 

11.  fair  ynyfryu  klwyd 

p.  yfeneoh  did 

11.  vwrog'' 

tre  EythynJ 

11.  feygan"  [11.  Khudd^] 

U.  beder 

11.  gynhafal 

11.  hychan 

11.  gwyfen 

11.  Syrnoc''* 
huomwd  Jal 

11.  ferrys'* 

11.  armon 

11.  degle'= 

Brya  eglwys 

11.  dysilio 
k.  swyS  y  wayn 

11.  goUen 

11.  fair  or  wayn  isa 

II.  sain  ffred  glyn  kerioc 

11.  armon  dyffryn  kerioe 

11.  armon  mynyS"  mawr 

11.  Rayadr  ymochnant 

11.  gedwin 

11.  silyn  yng  hynllaith 


[11.  V'el  y'Mlodwal'] 
II.  gydwaladr' 

h.  May  lor  Gymraeg 
Riw"  abou' 
■■bistoc"  [y  Bistok'] 
y  marchwiel 
gwrek  sam§  [Silin^] 
y  groes  fforS'" 
[78  koed,  kappel  wrth 

Eesffordd'] 
'yr  holt"  .  xlxvii .  [60'] 

Siu  Y  FrLYNI 
II.  elwy2» 
By  SI  an  [Mair^J 
y  Siserth^' 
gait  melydr^ 
11.  hasa^ 

[Cwm  yn  NhegaingF] 
chwith2<  fforS 
Kiw  lownwyd^'  [-wydd'j 
gwayn  ysgor 
''kwm  dymeirchion'* 
bod  ffari^? 

kayrwysT 

j'sgeifioc^ 

nanerth^ 

kilkeni^s  [kilken'] 

tter  ffynnon^' 

y  lygen'" 

y  fflynt** 

II.  eirgain  [.S.  I'etr-] 

pen  ar  lag'^ 


'■•  II.  ferreis 

'*  aho  Gresffordd 


>  In  MS.  J.  Jones  ^  In  MS.  J.  Brooke. 

3  "  alias  Llan  Krayadr  "  in  MS.  J.  Jones.  MS.  J.  Brooke  omits  LI.  Vdyfnoc  and 
writes  "  LI.  rhaiadr  ynghcinmeirch  " 

■•  Djnmael  [also  J.  J.]  '  Magdalena,  addei  ^  Marthin,  aided 

'•  alias  y  Ddiserth  "  Digain  frenin,  added 

9  Cantkkf  Dvffryn  Klwyd.  Ervthyn  alias  LI.  Bedr.  /  kwmwd  Dogfeilin : 
11.  vnys,  y  Gyffylliog,  II.  Bedr,  U.  Krudd  alias  II.  Vevgan,  11.  Gynhafal,  11.  Hychan, 
11.  Gwyfen,  11.  Dyruog  a  phetli  o  Votvarri.  /  k.  Llannerch  :  11.  fair  D.  klwyd, 
11.  Elidan.  /  A.  koleion  :  Derwen  anial,  klokacnog,  11.  Vwrog,  y  Vynachtid — in  MS. 
J.  Jones. 

'"  Mewn  ciphyll  denv  y  cad  delw  Fair,  added  in  MS.  J.  B. 

"  Clokaenog  [also  J.  J.]     '*  Derweu  Ynial  _  "  11.  deyrnog 

15  ]],  degia  "  also  Khiw  fabon         ''  Arbistog. 

'»  Added  in  a  later  hand  (a)  Yr  eglwys  newydd  (yn  anorfiPen)  yn  Nymbech. 
(b)  Cappel  tfynuon  fair. 

2"  Esgobty  Uanelwy.  Asaph,  (b)  Eglwys  Asaph  yn  Llanelwy  (alias  Henllan). 

2'  vn  NhegaingI.CwyTen.ad(/(?rf.  ^  Allt  Melydn  [Gallt  Melydr'] 

25  11.  asaph  ■*  Chivit  [also  J.  J,]  ^s  ^hiw  lyfnwyd 

26  Kwm  omitted  and  Y  grog  Ian  added  '^  Botvarri.S.Dier 
28  Nannerch  [also  in  MS.  J.  J.]                                       ^  Cil  kain 

'"  Helygen  [also  MS.  J.  J.]       ^'  alias  Ilanwenfrewy    ^2  Yr  HoU  Saint,  added. 

"  P.  Y  Kwm  and  P.  Y  Dvwmeirchion  in  MS.  J.  Jones. 

3'  ;/n  hwnmae  ty  Ednowen  bendew  in  MS.  J.  Jones.         °  Omitted  in  MS.  J.  B. 

•  Derwen  auial       ''  {Bryn  y  golwg  y  gelwid  gynt  He  mae  Eglwys  11.  fwrog  heSyw). 
'  mawn  [also  J.  J.]  .  ''  not  ™  MS.  Cardiff. 

•  This  and  the  following  places  down  to  Nerkwys,  inclusive,  are  omitted. 

'  stDyi  Sinbych  appears  as  a  Commote  in  MS.  J.  J.  '  retraced 

•  ag  yno  ymae  marchnad  bob  raerchyr 

+  Crossed  out  later  ;  it  belongs  to  Flintshire  q.v.  MS.  J.  Jones  puts  Llysvaen  In 
the  same  line  as  Kryddlan  without  caucolliug  the  latter. 

t  ag  yno  mae  marchnad  bob  dyw  llyu  [a  die  Gwener.     J.J. — second  lisf]. 

£  ag  yno  mae  marchnad  bob  dyw  iay 

^  fMarcbnad  pob  die  mawrth— in  MS.  J.  Jones — second  list.] 

**  [Marchnad  pob  die  Jov — in  MS.  J.  Jones — second  list.] 


"tm  CbMMOl^ES  AND  PARISHiIS  OV  WALES. 


915 


k,  yiirad  alyn" 
yr  wyS  giyc' 
neikwys" 
treySyu'' 

k.  yr  hob^ 
p.  kyngar''  [al's  Estyii"] 

k,  mayloT  saysneg 
p.  bangor  [iskoed'] 
p.  gwyrSimp''  [kapel'"] 
p.  hangmer 

p,  ortyn'  fadog  [kap : "] 
.xxvii  [2S'»] 

SlK  Dkepaldwin 

h.  kyfailiog 

p.  "bachynlleth* 
p.  wirn'  [Oria"] 
p.  kSmais 
p.  y.  droTTen'" 
p.  pen  egos" 
11.  bryn  mair 

h.  yrwystli 
karno 
tref  eglwys 
11.  idlost 
[Penystrywaid^] 
11.  girig 
II.  wnoG 
U.  Sinam  [Dinam"] 

h.  keri 
p.  "bochdref 
11.  V'el  yDgheri 

k.  kydywen  [Aedeit'cn''-'] 
11.  Sysyl 
llam  yr  ewic 
11.  llwch  hayarn 
y  dre  newySJ 
aber  "hafais 


[y  kettwk"] 
J  betws 

II.  dref  "gyuou" 
II.  wySelan 
11.  Ilygan 
manatbn  [afan''-'] 
aber  iw 

/(.  kaer  ^'■'inion 
[Castell^] 
II.  fair 
11.  yrfyl"- 
11.  gadfan 
p.  garth  beibld"' 
11.  gyniw 

k.  mechain  [a'°  jiwchnant'] 
meifod 

11.  V'el  yugwynfa 
11.  '^wySyu  [w5yn'»] 
penant  mallangell^' 
11.  gynog 
11.  himant 
II.  fyllinng 
II.  arraou  yraechain" 
II.  sain  fired  ymechain= 

ArglwySietk"  daySicr 
II.  drinio 
11.  dysilio 

k.  ystrad  Marchcll 
kegidfa 
y  trallwnS^lT 
11.  ffyn  honwen^ 
tre  faldwin** 
yr  ystoc  .  xlvii 

Sir  Fysifbd 
''^\_Maelienydd''\ 
II.  badarn  fawr 

ymylenyS 
11.  badarn  fynyS 


II.  -^aino 

II.  bister 

II.  V'el  y  ^'bigail  dy 

II.  5ewi  Sf'hiob 

p.  saint  Edwart  yn 

Ref  y  klawSft 
II.  5ewi  yn  hwytyn 
y  brjn  hir 
mair  °o  bilale 
11.  degle'' 
II.  gynllo 

11.  V'el  27Eydeithion 
11.  Sewi  ystrad  ''yni 
II.  Vel  kefen  Ilys 

k.  ^^gwrthrynion 
nanmel 
U.  V'el  fach 
11.  Ilyr3«  yn  Ros 
Rayadr  ar  TvyJJ 
saint  harmoii  [Herman'-' 

k.  daySwr 
saint  ffyred 

Elfael  ywch  mynyS 
y  Siserth  yn  elfel 
[llan  Elwedd5]35 
11.  varaith^' 
aber  edw[y'] 
11.  badarn  garreg 
keric  Ryna''- 
Riwlen 
glasgwm 
11.  Ban  ffred 
y  bettws 

Elfael  is  mynyifl^ 
11.  ssdeilio 
11.  ystvffan 
II.  bcdr 
11.  Sewi  fach 


'  y  Ddelw  fyw,  added.    ''  Nerthgwys  .  [Nercoys  ./  Hannerkwys  kap :  in  MS.  J.  J.] 


'  vel  TrefSyn  ./kapel,—  in  MS.  J.  J. 


In  MS.  J.  li. 
»  Machynllaith  [-Ik-th'-'] 
"  penegoes  [also  J. [J-] 
"  Tregynon 
''  wthyn 
2"  y  mochnant  in  MS.  J.  J. 


Eglwys  yr  hob .  Cyiigar 
'  Owrtun  [Overtoil'-']  vadog 
'"  Uarywaiu  [Daiovven'"] 
'"  Havc'sp 

'"  beibio  [also  J.  J.] 
1'-*  In  MS.  J.  .r. 


Gwrddl 

''  LI.  wrin 

'-  Mochdref 

'•  eigniou  [Knion"] 

'"  Llauvechain 

*i  Melangell  in  MS.  J.J. 
^  y  Tralhvng  coch  ym  mhowys:  [j/  Trallyn  in  MS.  J.  Jones.] 
^  (Cherbury)  {ffynhownwen  in  MS.  J.  J.] 

=4  Anno  "  Bugeildy  [also  J.  J.]  ^''  Heiob 

^  Rhyd  Jeithon  ^'  ynni  -"  Gwertliri'iiion 

'*»  Llanvr  '"  variaith  "^  Crug  Runa  '■"  deilo 

3'  Kantref  Milenydd  in  MS.  J.  J.  ^  LI.  Elwy  in  MS.  J.  J.— second  list 

">  Plwyfy  hlyl  added  in  second  list  by  J.  J. 

-  gynan  [also  J.  J.]  ^  eurful  [Yrfil .  /  ETrvvl'"]  '  Omitted. 

ii  degla  °  Omitted  in  MS.  J.  B. 

■*  y  may  tre  farchnad  bob  merohyr 
t  ^g  y°  y  plwyf  hwnw  y  may  mar[ch]nad  bob  sndwrn 
%  ag  yny  dre  bono  marchnad  bob  dyw  mawrth  ' 

§  (ag  yno  may  marchnad  bob  diyeu) 
1,  ag  yno  y  may  marchnad  bob  dyw  llyn 
**   [marchnad  pob  merchvr — in  MS.  J.  J. — second  list,] 
tt  ag  yno  y  may  marchnad  bob  dyw  Jay 
it  [fnarcbnad  pob  die  GiYener— m  MS.  J.  /.—second  list.] 


9tG 


PENIARTB  JfANUSCRlPT   147. 


kastcll  paen 

11.  V'el  y  bryugwyn 

11.  DewyS 

11.  V'el  dyffiyn  ['ai'w^] 

y  bettwB 

llowes 

kylirw' 

y  klas  ar  wy 

boehnvyd" 

11.  V'el  nau  'inelan 

p.  mair  o  fysyfed* 

11.  fair  Mlwyth  "ynuoc' 

p5n  kraic 


11.  andrast 

MeS  fach 

nortyn         .  l.vii  [5/2] 

Sir  Aber  Teifi 
r/wch  ayron 

11.  gynfelyn 

11.  V'el  gener  glyu 

11.  badarn  fawr 

II.  llwch  hayarn 

11.  ilar 

11.  V'el  y  kreySyn 

11.  afau  or  troioegoed 

ysbytty  Kiw  ystwyth 

ysbytty  kynfyn 

11.  wnws 

Ystrad  may  rye 

11.  V'el  Iledrod 

11.  V'el  Ros  "die 

11.  y  gwrySon 

aber  ystwythj 

II.  Jeiniel  [Ddoiniol^] 

11.  Eystyd 

11.  Ban  ^ffraid 

11.  Sewi  aber  ^arch 

II.  badarn  ['drefeglwys^] 

kil  kenin 

lal  y  sarn  grin 

11.  gwnllo* 

II.  geithion' 

11.  badarn  odyu 

IS  ayron 
tre  garon§ 
11.  Sewi  frefi 
11.  fair  gylydoge 
kellan 
11.  bedr  bout  ystyfyn 


y  bettws 

silian 

11.  gybi 

ystrad 

kilie  ajTou 

[Llannerch  aerou"] 

hen  fyniw 

llan  arth 

[11.  Vitalis"] 

II.  ina 

II.  llffcb  hayarn 

U.  dysilio 

p.'"  kranoc 

pen  bryn 

bettws  ifan 

y  bryngwyu 

blaen  porth 

aber  porth'' 

trer  main  [Tren  main'] 

y  grog  or  mwnt 

y  ferwic 

aber  teifi^ 

11.  goedmor 

11.  dygwy 

tre  dreyrn" 

II.  fair  tref  lygen 

U.  gynllo 

dyfrioe 

henllan  ar  ^-Ai& 

Bangor 

II.  fair  or  Uwyu 

II.  dyssyl 

II.  wenoc 

11.  wnen  .  Ixiiii  ,  [62'] 

Sir  BENrRo 
k.  hemais 

11.  dydoch 

kil  garan" 

y  briSell 

11.  twyd' 

tre''  wySel'^ 

y  baisil"" 

eglwjs  irw 

y  myline 

y  nant  gwyn 

yr  eglwys  wen 

nan  hyfer 

y  kil  gwyn 

tref  draeth 

y  diuas 


[Uifychgan'] 
aber  gwayn 
II.  a  chaer° 
y  bont  faen 
11.  llawen 
[II.  y  Ciliu'=] 
(U.  y  kefen') 
11.  ach  Iwydo'? 
y  kastell  gwyn 
y  kastell  newyS 
y  kastell 
kastell  mal 
kastell  y  fywch 
kastell  heuri 

Swyt  benfro 
y  maen  klooh[og',  ^J 
y  morfil 
11.  golmonE 
y  fynachlog  Sy 
11.  fryn  charSa'' 
[11.  glydwen  ar  daf] 
Klydav" 
PenryS 
kaatellan 
II.  V'el  ben  bedw 
maner  deifi 

**kil  y  maen  llwyd 
11.  dyseilio  yn  yfed° 
11.  y  kefyn 
egyr  mwnt 
kastell  dyrau 
11.  fall  de 
11.  Sewi  y  ^Oselffre 
II.  beder  y  ^selffre 
yr  eglwys  Iwyd 
Ar  berth 
Eobestown 
Marthe  tywi 
mynwar 
lawr  -'yni 
ilbastwn 
ssiaffre  twn° 
bigeli"  [Bigelydd'] 
lifer  stown 
sain  tysed^' 
kairiw  [Caeryw'] 
kostestown 
lamffe 
aiarath 
krynweS 


'  In  MS.  J.  Brooke.  ^  In  MS.  J.  Jones  =  Cleirw 

<  meltun  [melai^] .  *  llythofnwg  [Llwythynog  mwg-]         "  ffred 

7  arth  '  Nant  Gwnllo  '  11.  geithon 

10  lian  "  Trefdreyr  [Trefdeyrn=]  '^  deifi  [also  J.  J.] 

"  In  MS.  J.  J. — second  list.  "  kil  gerran 

1'  tre  wrddel  '°  plwyf  y  Baifil  ■'  llan  ych  Iwydo 

"  U.  frynach  ar  daf  [11.  Vrynn  Hardda"/  vyrnach  ar  daf  in  MS.  J.  J.] 

"  plwyf  Clydan  '"f-miSre 2'  enni  22  g^in  dyuet 

» ywfog  ^'  omitted.  '^  tywyd  ''  tre  wyddalo 

'  In  MS.  Cardi6F  '  Not  in  MS.  Cardiff  s  golanon 

°  Omitted  in  MS.  J.  B.  ~  r  retraced. 

*  ag  yno  y  mae  niarclinad  bob  dyw  mawrth 
t  ag  yno  y  may  marchnad  bob  sadwru 
§  marchnad  dyw  mawrth  yn  wastad. 
•'*  This  has  neiiber  plwy  nor  kivtiiwd  before  it. 


J,  Jones,  first  list ;  as  a  parish  in  swyS  Benfro  iu  bis  second  list. 


J  marchnad  bob  dyw  Uyn 
i[  marchnad  bob  dyw  sadwrn. 
It  is  treated  as  a  kijmwd  ia  MS, 


THE  COMMOTES  AND  PARISHES  OF   WALES, 


917 


gwmffre  ystown 
p.  mair  o  dinbych 

y  pysgod* 
saiQ  fflwrens 
kalde 

ystam'  pwl 
sain  pedrog 
sain  dwnel 
waram- 

kastell  marthin 
nangeP 
Eos  gylySwr^ 
pwU  krochan 
hoidstwn= 
manor  "bir 
penal'' 

saint  deinieK 
pecfrot 

Tir  Bos  yn  sir  B. 
bwrtwn 
Bos  marked 
11.  ystydwal 
ystaintwn 
hobrystwn 
harbarstwn'' 


y  Sydal* 
marlas 
sain  Sred 
saint  isbel 
Waltwn 
ssainstwn 
dol  boeni" 
harstwn' 
nolstwn'" 
Boeds 
kamros 
Kobestwn 
y  bettwaU" 
"•ystrawgad'^ 
sain  dogwel 
wala  sbadl 
ffraistr  gam" 
lamstown''' 
swyi  llan  y  hadea' 
Eobrstwn 
Waltown 
[Mwlstwn"] 


tre  aralod° 

trawgad'^ 

tre  rina'" 

flimystown" 

bolstown 

kastell  '"gwist 

yslbaids'-' 

piktwa 

llan  y  haden 

y  dre  feleu 

maner  ifan 

Uys  y  fran"" 

y  mod2»  [y  Mot^'] 

tre  hwlffordf 

p.  martinj 

p.  mairj 

Sain  tomas| 

Tir  Dewi 
[kwm:  Pebidiog^^'\ 
dewi  o  fjniw 
y  groes 
11.  Riaian 
Marthri 
saint  y  katrin-' 
saint  nikolas 
llan  wnda^ 
maner*'  nawon 
tre  wrgan 
11.  ystinau  [-am^'] 
11.  fair  nant  y  go 
tre  letert 
henlle  Sewi^ 
sain  lovans-' 
kastell  haiS 
breydeth 
11.  eilfyw 
11.  howel2« 
U.  aylwyf27 
11.  Reithon 
tre  iwrdan 
[Llan  Edrain"] 
y  garn 
iol  twn 

7  igaiyi  a  doi 

Sir  Gaer  FyiiDin 
swyS  lacharn 
marchroes  [Morkroes-'] 


kyffic 

pendyn 

eglwys  gymyn 

11.  sadyinyn 

lacharn 

11.  dawe 

11.  ymSyfrwy" 

hwndrwd^  derlli/sc 

II.  V'el  aber  kowyii 

meidi'im  [-drin"] 

11.  ystyffan 

11.  fair  y-'-  byri 

11.  gynog 

11.  deilo™ 

11.  gain 

sain  kler 

11.  gynin  ai  waison'^ 

11.  wnio^^ 

[Uanbeudu^'] 

p.  mair  a  chirig 

11.  gau'^ 

U.  Seyii  o  henllan 

11.  falldeg 

p.  dysilio  ynyfed 

p.  kil  y  maen  llwyd 
hwndrwd^^  elfed 

ebyr  nant 

tre  lech 

y  bettws 

kynwyl  elfed 

merthyr 

11.  llweh 

kaer  fyrSin§  [}n\.  bedrisj 

yr  eglwys  ncwyS 

11.  y  pymsaint 

11.  llowSoc 
£mlyn  ywch  hych 

kenarth 

kastell  newyS  yn  E. 

pen  ^'beyr 

11.  geler 

kil  Bedyn 

11.  V'el  3s  foroths 

11.  ssilwni 

11.  y  bySair 
p.  kareg 

aber  gwyli 

p.  m'el  fechan 


1  Stampwl  -  waran 

■•  Rhos  grydwr  ^  Hael  stown 

--  --  8  plwyf  f  ddyfal 

"  Ysbitwal 
"  In  SIS.  J.  J. — second  list 
'^  Simonstwn 
20  y  Newmot 
22  alias  TrefSotbert  in  MS.  J.  J. 
2«  Aber  nawon.  -°  Lawrens 

2?  i]_  deilwyf  ^'  MS.  J.  Jones  adds 


■  San  daniel 
I"  Noltwn 
'^  Lamystwn 
"=  Tre  Eeina. 
"  slebaids 


^  Nangl 
"  Pen  ale 
'  Dol  benni 
'-  Ystragwad 
'»  Tragwad 
'»  Gwis  [also  J.  J.] 
2'  In  MS.  J.  Jones. 
-^  alias  Pen  kaer  in  MS.  J.  J. 
28  llan  Hoi. 
Janlle  Ddewi " 


jS:an(/6/in  MS.  J.  J.       ^i  J .  J .  adis  Aber  Kwyn       ^i  j]  .jdyfrwr 
32  y  bri  [byri  in  MS.  J.  J.]  '"  San  Cynin  ar  weision  '*  II.  wnno 

35  In  MS.  J.  B.  ""  11.  garn  ^'  boyr  ^  newerth  '»  Uowni 

»  Dvr  [also  MS.  J.  J.]  ''  omitted  «  hawstwn  "  y  Stramgad 

^-^-  I  Lan  i  Haddef  [P.  Swy5  Lanibaden"] 

°  Omitted  in  MS.  J.B. 


■  ffaistrgam 

e  toroth 

*  marchnad  bob  merchyr 

f  marchnad  bob  sadwrn. 


t  ar  tri  fflwyf  hyny  syii  [nbyrav^']  bwlffcrd 


§  marchnad  bob  mercher  a  ffob  sadwrn 


918 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  147. 


yvieh  holhi^ 
11.  egwad  fa  wi- 
ll. fynyS 

11.  V'el»  [kilvargcn"] 
11.  gathen 
11.  djfaysan 
11.  deilo  fawr 
11.  gadog  fawr 
11.  jSey  saint 
11.  V'el  y  I'mySfai 
[11.  Gadog  fawrS]* 
11.  ym  gyfrif 
11.  fair  y  bryn 
II.  V'el  kil  y  kwm 
II.  wrda 
II.  sadwin 
tal  y  Heche' 
II.'  Vel  y  lliehe' 
kynwyl  gayo 
11.  y  pymsaint 
11.  y  krwys 
II.  sawel 
11.  V'el  kil  korne 
brechfa  gothi 

SwyS  Gydweli 
11.  ismel 
U.  y  saint 
kydweli 
II.  dyfayloc 
II.  gynheiSoQ 
II.  gyndeyrn 
11.  UySgen 
II.  Saroo 
11.  gwnwr^ 
11.  arthne 

II.  V'el  aber  bytbych 
II.  dybie 
II.  odd" 
y  bettws 
II.  edi 
II.  genych 
11.  elli 
peiibre'  .  Ixxxv  , 

Sin  FracHENod 
hantref  byellt 
11.  wthwl 


II.  V'el  biyn  'payn 
II.  afan  fawr 
aber  gwesyn 

11.  Sewi  A.  gwesyn 

11.  wrtyd  [Wrtyn  .  J.  J. 

II.  gamarch 

II.  ynys 

U.  afan  feeban 

II.  Sewi  maes  "mynys 

11.  ganteu 

11.  llywen  fel 

II.  fair  y  byelltj 

U.  Sewi  y  kwm 

gallt  mawr 
kwmiad  kantre  sely 

kraig'  kadarn 

gwen  Swr 

II.  dyfalle     - 

y  Ilys  wen 

brwyn'"  Ilys'' 
kwmwd  talgarth 

11.  fiUo" 

talach  Sy 

talgarth 

U.  elwy'2 

II.  eigion''' 

y  gelli§  [Hayss] 
h.  ystrad  dyw'  ycku}* 

11.  V'el  kwm  dy 

11.  fair  a  ehynydr 

*eglwys  iail'» 

k.  ystrad  dyw'  issa}* 

krighwel  "saint  "edmwnt 

U.  bedr  ystrad  y\Y 

pertrissw 

II.  gene 

U.  gattwo 

II.  elli 
k.  pen  helli 

U  Setty'° 

II.  feygan'* 

[Eglwys  ?ail«] 

"11.  frynach'-'' 

p.  y  kantre" 

k.  tir  yr  hatff 
maynor  '"wino 


pen  yderytf' 
ystrad  fell  de 
ystrad  gyn  lais 
ystrad  'wallt  ''twen 
]      y  Syfynoe 

ft.  lliwel 
lliwel 

11.  deilo  arfaen 
II.  V'el  nant  bran 
merthyr  kj  nog 
II.  dyfaylog 
karth  brengi 
aber  esgair 
II.  Swyis 
y  battel 
y  trallwng 
II.  ysbySaid 
II.  vaes  "dewi 
aber  hodni^  °ifan 

"fedySiowr 
II.  hamwlch 
11.  °y  warn  °mair  a 

"ehynydr 
11.  V'el  tal  y  llyn 
II.  gors  "peylyn  °sant 
II.  V'el  '"gythedin 
II.  san  ffred  .  Ixiii .  [62- 

Sir  ForgInwo 
^euan  fedySiwr'- 
mair  o  gaer  dyS** 
y  Eaff-3 

yr  eglwys  newyS 
11.  issen*'' 
Ilys  faen 
II.  edyrn 
y  Eydri^'f 

[hwrnwd^^]  Saing  henyP's 
eglwy»  ilan 
11.  fabon 
y  gelli  gaer 
merthyr  tydfyl 
aber  daer 
U.  wno 
glyn  RoSne" 
11.  dyfodwc 


^  Ilan  nonn 


'  mynyr 


'  llychau  [lleche  in  MS.  J.  J.]  ^  H.  gynwr 

*  Vrycheiniog  "  pab  7euan  [Pahyan  in  MS.  J.J.] 
7  Cerrig  *  In  MS,  J.  J. — second  list. 
»  "  is  Gorlyth  "  [  =  ?  Gorlech]  added  in  MS.  J.  J. 

'»  Brynllys,  [Brwynllyn  Ilys  in  MS.  J.  J.]  "  U-  vilo  [ffilo  in  J.  J.] 

12  11.  elwedd  ^  '-  II.  Einion  '^  Ystradyw,  without  ycha  and  isaa. 

'5  These  churches  are  said  to  be  in   Cwmwd  Eglwys  iail  in  MS.  J.  Brooke 

wbioh  omits  "  /■:.  pen  helli" 
's  wono  or  weno  ''  wen  [also  .1.  J.]  '*  11.  ddewi 

'»  Cyffedin  -"  Omitted  in  MS.  J.J.  ^i  p^nn  Edyrn  in  MS.  J.  J. 

"  Ynghaerdyf  ^'  eglwys  Ralff  ^*  11.  nisen. 

2j  In  MS.  J.  Brooke.  ^°  Not  in  MS.  J.  J. — second  list. 

=?  Bhydri,  Saioghenydd  in  one  line.  ^'  Glyn  Rhoddni.  ^^  In  MS.  J.  J. 

•  p.  mihangel  vwch  Coch.  ''  ymddyfri  '  pentre 

i"  Brynllys        '  tywi        '  walldwyn        e  See  note  27.         "  Omitted  in  MS.  J.  B. 

»   [Marchnat  bop  die  Jov  -in  MS.  J.  J.— second  list.] 

f   [Marchnat  bop  merchvr  a  Saturn — in  MS.  J.J. — second  list.] 

X  marchnad  bob  dyw  llyn  §  marchnad  bob  Joy 

%  marchnad  bob  sadwro^''  a  gob  m«rchyr         **  marchnad  bob  sadwrn, 


THE  COMMOTES  AND  PARISHES  OF  WALES. 


919 


II.  igaiti  wyr' 

U.  y  trissaint  ymisgyn 

11.  ylMyd  or^  faer  dret' 

pen  "tyrch 

yr  adyr' 

11.  daf 

Sain  fliigan* 

11.  V'elorpwU  [y  pwlP] 

kaere 

sain  sioryg 

II.  san  ffred  [ffiondH 

[llanbedr]« 

pen  daylwyn 

llan  dyuwyd^ 

yetrad  owain 

11.  hari 

11.  harau' 

11.  sanwr 

pen  llin 

11.  ''gain' 

11.  fair  or'"  mynyS 

II.  ilid  a  chirig 

11.  grallo 

y  koyty 

11.  san  ffred  or"  ogwr 

11.  ysbyttel'2 

11.  gynwyd'=  fawr 

glyn  korrwg 

II.  gattwc  glyneS 

kil  y  bebyll 

kastell  neS 

11.  elldyd  fach 

II.  ieawel 

p.  maglan 

ll.V'el  ynys  afan 

aber  afan° 

margam'^ 

11.  ffai 

ypii 

y  dre  newyS  ''ynottais 

II.  dydwc 

merthyr  mawr 

tre  lalis 

kastell  ogwr'^ 

yr  hen  gastell 

y  w5ni'' 

saint  y  brid 


y  wig 

[y  Bettwjis] 

yras  fach 

markroes 

saint  dynwyd 

II.  dwt 

llys  RonyS'" 

tref  golwyn 

11.  liSan" 

y  bout  faeu 

.Saint  y  lari" 

11.  doehe2» 

11.  fair  or  bewpyr 

11.  ylldyd  fawr 

[P.  Rarre's] 

11.  faes 

eglwys  boywys-' 

Sain  tathan 

fSemin  melyn 

ffilstwn22 

pen  mark 

porth  kiric 

Aber  8awen 

p.  sili 

Sain  lawrens 

koek^^ 

penarth 

11.  doche  fach 

II.  fihangel 

Saint  andras 

y  mertliyr  dyfal^^ 

kriustwn^'' 

gwenfo 

sain  nikolas 

11.  karfau 

U.  triSid 

tre  simwnt 

Tir  Gwyr 
11.  giwg 
11.  gyfelach 
11.  deilo  ben  y  bont 
kastell  llwchwr 
11.  Riden26 
11.  di  mwv*? 
11.  madoc 
II.  gynyS 


Ros  ssili 

porth  einion'^ 

ogsmids-" 

Pen  Kys 

II.  Sewi 

kinastwn 

niklas  down 

pen  .irth 

11.  deilo  ar  ferwallt 

II.  ystym  Uwynarth 

aber  tawe' 

II.  siamled' 

II.  iuinewyr 

pen  maen  .  c.  xl.  [H9''] 


Saint 


Sin  FvNWE 
^^  tre      fynwe* 

marthin 
11.  warwc^' 
11.  iau's 
pen  allt 
try  leg 
kwm  karfan 
pen  y  klawS 
II.  y  gofaiu'^ 
(p.  11.  Jisen) 
li.  V'el  tor  mvnyS 
11.  wuell  [WynelP] 
11.  gwm  ycbaf 
11.  gwm  isaf 
11.  soe 
y  trisaint^' 
°11.  giwce 
kil  gyrwc^^ 
(11.  gynog)" 
yr  eglwys  newyS  ar 

y  kefen 
dintarn  ychaf 
dintarn  isaf 
porth  kaseg" 
howio  fach  [Hwig''  fachl 
11.  "karn.  ^  ■" 

kastell  gwent* 
[P.  y  nais"] 
[LI.  ystarn'*] 
matharn"' 


'  11.  geinwyr 
'  In  MS.  J.  Jones. 
'  llan  ddunwyd 
'"  y  mynydd 


omits  or 


I  yr  adar  .  vi.  an  Radur.  ■•  llan  ffagan 

"  In  MS.  J.  B.  and  J.  J. — second  list. 
8  11.  hidran  ^  II.  ganney  [Gane  .  in  MS.  J.  J./] 

"  ar  [also  J.  J.]  '=  II.  is  y  Bettws. 

"  yn  ogais.  "  Castell  newydd  ar  ogwr  '*  y  wern.  "  llys  vynydd 

"  llan  leiddan  [Elidati  in  first  list,  Liddan  in  second  list  in  MS.  J.  J.]     °  omitted 
'8  In  MS.  J.  J.— second  list.        '»  Sain  Hilari  \_Eleri  in  MS.  J.  J.]        2«  II.  dochey 


^'  Eglwys  Brywys  [^Byrwys  J.  J.] 


22  Siltwn 


' y  Cook 


^*  M.  dyfan  ^s  Kinstwn  in  first  list,  Krinslwn  in  second  list  in  MS.  J.  J. 

2''  11.  Rhydien      ^7  Handimwr  [also  J.  J.]     's  ^ijtou  and  Biston  added  in  margin. 

23  Osmwnds  in  MS.  J.  J.  'o  Omitted  by  J.  J.  ■»  11.  warw 

32  11.  =Feuan  [also  in  MS.  JJ.]         ■"  II.  Gofien  [Go/eM  =  J.J.]         '■»  llantrisaint 

^  Kil  gwrriog  [also  in  MS.  .1.  J.] 

'^  The  following  places  are  added  in  margin  by  the  same  hand  in  MS.  J.  B. — 

^"itwmJn  "'"'""    ^'  ''*  }  Cappelau. 

•  tyrach  ''  11.  gano  "  gynydd  ■■  margan 
'  tawl                                 '  saimled                            «  In  margin, 

"  Omitted  in  MSS.  John  Brooke  &  J.  Jones, 

*  marchnad  bob  sadwr« 


920 


PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  147. 


tiilgarth  "gallenf 
ifftwn' 

porth  'kiwed 
y  die  newyS 

gelli  farch 
11.  Seiniol 
kaer  went 
11.  fair  is  koed 
II.  faches 
pen  hw 
11.  fartin" 
11.  Vihangel 
saint  y  brid 
gwndi 
magwyr 
wilkryc' 
yr  Eedwic° 
y  widsone 
golklif 
trer  onnen 
tre  esgob 
11.  wern 

eglwys  y  drindod 
kemais 
kaer  Ilion* 
y  kastell  newyJ 

ar  wysef 
bysaleg 
koed  kernivr 
11.  sain  fFred^ 
11.  beder    gwayn* 
meyryn*    llwe 
^  tref  delerch' 
11.  lirwg 

II.  V'el  gwayn°  Uwc 
machaiu 
bedwes 


p.  tydyr  ap  bowel 

Sanan°  bod  raellde' 

blayne  gwent.  peder' 

II.  hyleS'"  [vorwyn"] 

tref  Syn  °kattwc 

Eisgaf 

henllys 

y  malpas 

11.  V'el  ton'-  y  groei 

11.  frechfa 

11.  Sewi 

11.  degfeS 

pant  teg 

11.  V'el  gilgoygen 

11.  hynwg" 

tre  Eydynog" 

II.  gybi 

II.  badog 

mamhilad*^ 

y  goyttre  .  ''peder  , 

II.  fair  gil  gydyn 

U.  ofor 

II.  elen 

II.  ffwyst's 

bryn  bygafj  [Bvga"J 

trosdre 

y  bettws  newyS 

kemais  kymawndwr'' 

gwern  esni° 

11.  gifiw" 

II.  howel" 

11.  deni  [Ddewi"] 

Raglan 

ti-er  gaer° 

Pen  Eos 

y  bryn  gwyn 

41.  arth  .  teilo" 


11.  V'el  y's  gofloM- 
11.  san  ffred" 
II.  gattwg  dyff- 

ryn  wysk 
[p.  y  Grog  o  Venui2»]§ 
p.  mair  o  dref  ^ifenil™ 
11.  deilo  borth  ale-' 
11.  wenarth 
[Aberystrwyfh  blaeney 

gwent-'J 
II.  f  el  gil  kornel  [kil  y 

kornel"] 
kwm  Jay  [Jfan"] 
[P.  y  Erosan  ar  wy™]^ 
y  grysmwnt 
11.  giwa 
ysgyufraith^ 
11.  gattwc  mibon-'  afel 
11.  y  ffyrin-' 
11.  Sewi  ysgyryd 
11.  Sewi  EySercV 
11.  TabUe2' 

11.  deilo  groes  ynyr^' 
11.  V'el  troSi 
11.  gattwg  klenic 
11.  fair  gil™  goed 
II.  EySoP' 
11.  Tocha° 
yr  hocflSld'- 
II.  ingad^     Ixxx  xviii    . 

Ag  felly  terfyna  hyfri 
plwyfi  y  tair  sir  ar  leg 
ar  Rifedi  y  gyd  ydiw  . 
naw  hant  affeduiar  ar  Seg 
ar  higain. 


23  Dyma  dangos  hjd  a  lied  a  chwmpas  hoU  loygyr  &c. 

24  Yn  yr  amser  yr  aeth  Trystan  ap  talwch  .  ag  esyllt  gwraig  briod 
mar3  am  heirchion  ar  herw  y  goed  Cyluflon  a  Golwg  hafeyfl  yn  Haw 
forwyn  gyda  hi  ar  bach  bychan  yn  baits  gydag  ynte  yu  dwyn  pasdiod  a 
gwin  gydag  hwynt  /  a  gwelii  o  fan  dail  y  wnyth  bwyd  ydynt  /  ag  yna 
yraetb  mavj  fab  meircliioii  at  arthyr  y  gwyno  Hag  trystan  ag  ydolwyn 
ydo  dial  y  Syrliaed  arno  o  herwyd  y  fod  ef  yn  nes  o  gyrenyS  y  arthyr 
na"  drystan  o  achos  kefynder  oed  farch  ab  meirchion  y  Arthyr  /  ag  nyd 


•'  Naslie  follows  Wilcrick 
'  gwenllwg.  *  Maeryn. 

*Bodwellde  [=J.  J.] 

'»  LI.  hiledd. 

"  LI.  henwg  [also  J.  J.] 

>«  LI.  ffwyag  in  MS.  J.  3. 

'  In  MS.  J.  J. — second  list. 


'  Ytton.  -  jskiwed 

■*  MS.  J.  J.  adds  Givent  llwg. 

'  Tredelyrch  [delech  =  J.  J.] 

"  LI.  Vihangel  blaeney  gwent. 

"  In  MS.  J.  Jones.  "^  tal  y  groes  [tan"] 

n  Tredynog  '°  mambeilad 

17  kernels  comawnder  '^  gofian  in  MS.  J.  J. 

i»  LI.  deilo  Ilanarth  [MS.  J.  J.  omits  LI.  Deilo] 

21  o  dre  Gyfenni  in  J.  J.     ^  Eglwys  y  Grog  yn  y  fenni,  §•  Eglwys  fair  yn  Efenni 

^  LI   deilo  bertholey  ^*  In  MS.  J.  Brooke  ^s  yskynffreth 

-''  11.  fetherin  '^  11.  vaple 

311  iskoed  ^i  jj,  Rbyddon 

'^  II.  ddingad 

'■  This  and  the  following  32  entries  are  omitted. 
°  Omitted  in  MS.  J.  B. 
ar  tci/sc— marcbnad  bob  dyw  ioy  [Satwrn  in  MS.  J.  J. — second  list.] 
f  marclinad  bob  >!adwrn 

t  raarchnad  bob  dyw  llyn  §  marchnad  bob  dyw  niawrth  a  ffob  dyw  gwencr 

1[  [marchnat  ar  die  Jov —  in  MS  J.  J. — second  list.] 


28  veibion  avel 

2»  11.  deilo  cressyni 

»-  Eockffild 

'  galleint 

'  11.  deilo  yno 


GEOGRAPHY,  HERALDIC  DEVICES  ETC,  921 

oyd  dryatan  ond  nai  fab  Cefnder  yflaw  /  mi  af  miam  tayly  hebr  arthyr 
y  gesio  naill  ay  ay   Jawn  yti  /  Ag  yna  yr   aythant   yngliyicli 

Coed  Cylydon  ,^j.,  „„^,„-,a,^. 

b.  XII  llwytb  yr  ysrael  .  .  Euben  &c. 

25-89  Then  follow,  as  in  Pen:  MS.  163,  Gossodiad,  Kagorav 
KyveSodav,  a  Rhannav  arbenk  yr  ynys,  Tair  llys  brenkinawl  Kymry 
E^awer  o  ItyfeCtodc,  Vnyssoed  ystlyssawl,  Priffyrd  brenhinol,  Avon- 
yd  pennaf,  Prif  dinessyd,  Gwledyd  a  Siroei,  CyfreitJiau,  yr  istedvae 
penaf,  Saxon  Heptarchy,  y  ketihedloeff,  a  Jeithoect  yr  ynys,  Diwed 
ArtJiur,  Sf  Geomelrie. 

92  Tervyn  nejjffin  Rwng  bro  au  gilydt  =  naw  gieryd 
Terfyn  Rwng  day  gantref  =  pvmp  gwryd 

„  „      „    gwmwd  =  tri        „ 

„  ,,    dwy  vaenol  =  dav  „ 

»  „       „    dref  =  gwryd  a  haner 

n  ,)       „    Randir  =  iiii  troydfeft 

I)  ).       .,    erw  =  dwy  gwys 

„     fFoia  y  brenin  =  xii  troydfed 
Croes  vaen  Rwng  dwy  dref  cxx  yw  y  gwerth  &c. 

Ex  libra  latino  leges  Howeti  Sa  quern  possidebat  j  M''  /  Powel 

93  Yrwyf  yn  bwriady  o  vewn  hyn  o  cLwedel  bychan  ar  draythfi  a 
son  am  vagad  o  nassiwne  Crisnogawl  .  .  .  val  y  Cefais  ine  yn  ysgri- 
feuedic  yn  Hading  &c. 

y  nasitvn  gynta  yic  lladingwyr :  ]fn  bena  ag  yn  orycha  ar  y 
lladingwyr  y  maer  Pab  ar  Emprwr  &c. 

102  Names  of  Colleges  and  of  their  founders,  and  the  dates  of  the 
foundations  at  Oxford  up  to  1566  .  Also  a  list  of  "  Halles." 

105  A  similar  list  of  the  Cambridge  Colleges  up  to  1557. 

109  *TLyfyr  o  dtysgrifiad  Arvau  ....  Megis  y  darparwyd  yn  yr 
oes  gyntaf  or  byd  vod  henwau  ar  Synion  val  y  gellid  wrth  y  hynaif 
adnabod  pawb  .  Vellu  yn  yr  oesoeft  eraill  Gwedy  diliw  &c. 

143  llyma  lie  y  traythir  am  labelaii*  mewn  arvau  yr  Rai  aroir  yr 
brodyr  Jeyaf  &c. 

144-69  *Outlines  of  shields  and  a  description  of  the  arms  of  the 
gentry  of  Wales  &c. 

170  Gwedy  darfod  Traythy  am  arwydion*  bywiol  inewti  arvay 
bellach  maen  Raid  traythu  am  arwydtion  meirw :  ag  ymysc  yr  hell 
arwydion  meirw  vrflassaf  arwyd:  yw  Croes  ....  xii  ymrafael  G-roy.'^ay 
y  gair  &c. 

177  Traythir  bellach  amyr  arvau  a  dye  brutus  a  llawer  o  vrenhinoed: 
y  dyrnas  hon 

185  Dysc  i  dempro  ney  y  ardymhery  lliwiau  oil  y  syd  yn  canlyn  : 
Uiw  gwyn lliw  dv  awnair  or  gals  .  a  gwm  .  a  chopras  &c. 

187  TLyma  gopi  or  ystedfod  diwetha  a  gyn  haliwyd  tvrth  ystatvs 
Or:  ap  Cynan  1323^  :  Bid  hysbys  y  bawb  o  vpnySigion  a  chyffredin  vod 
istedvod  ar  wyr  wrth  gerd  .  Dafod  .  a  thant  o  vewn  tref  Gaerwys  .  .  . 
yr  ail  3yd  o  vis  GorfPena  yny  xv«*  flwydyn  o  govonydigaeth  Harri  v^ni. 
.  .  .  Drwy  Gomissiwn  yr  vn  eawedic  vrenin/  Gair  bron  Rissiart  ap  ho: 

ap  J.  vychan  &c ends  :  os  Roi  sialens  y  wna  ney  ymwa'l  uejr  ' 

or  ariandlws  /  a  heb  allii  dwyn  hyny  y  ben  Colli  y  rad  ay  chwerayd:.  -  -  .. 

*  The  text  of  Mostyii  MS.  113  (pp.  19-68)  seems  to  be  ptactically  the  same  as  this, 
t  Also  in  Pen:  MS.  169,  p,  349. 

7  »8430,  B  R 


922  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPT  147, 

195  Mai  yr  ordelnied  Ceri dant  affwy  ay  CafoeS  hi  gyntaf*:  Ni 
a  gawn  yn  ysgrifenedic  yny  Uyfyr  Cynta    or  bibyl  .  .  .  Genesis  ag 

yn  pedweryd penod  vod  gwr  gynt  ag  elwid  laraeg  ar  lameg 

hwnw    a    briodes  dwy  wraged  .  .  ada  ....  a   silla ao-  y 

Jabel  yn  gynta  y  roed  megis  bod  yn  iigail  ynyfeilied/ag  yr  ^abel  hwnfr 
y  Koed  gwrle  mvsic  .  ag  y w  vrawd  tvbal  y  Roed  telyn  ag  organ  //  ag  y 
tvbal  Cain  y  Eoed  gofiaeth  ....  a  f  abel  a  thvbal  yn  gyntaf  aganoed 
mvsic  gynt  drwy  rad  yr  ysbryd  glan  ag  wrth  laie  gyrd  tvbal  Cain  y 
gof  /  ag  wrth  lais  yr  orS  vwya  y  gossoded  y  bas  /  ag  wrth  yr  ail 
oi'd  y  mein/ag  wrth  y  morthyle  y  trebl/agyny  man  hwnw  gynta  y 
Caned  /  main  /  a  threbl  /  a  bwrdwn  &e. 

198  ILyma  Lyfyr  aelwir  Ceidwadigaelh  Cerd  dant  nyd  amgen 
tylynaii  a  ehrythau  o  vewn  tair  talaith  gymry  /  yr  hain  y  dynwyd 
or  mvsic  drwy  deyall  a  dychymic  doctor  or  mvsic  wrth  flainyniad. 
pedwar  pen  Cerd  o  delyn  /  a  chrwth  /  ameSwl  ag  athrilith  pob  vn 
ftt  y  gilyS  &C.  Cp.  Pen.  155  p.  79. 

199  Am  y  Couiiriau  syd^  yn  dangos  lleisay  gwahanedic  ,  .  .  Pym 
Cywair  y  syS  yn  safedic  &c. 

200  Pa  sawl  gwaith  y  dyly  Cwlwm  Cydgerd  vod  mown  Cwlwm  ney 
ganiad  //  o  byS  byrr  y  mesyr  dwywaith  Ac. 

201  Grwndtval  a  dechreyad  Crwth  ay  gerSroriaeth\ val 

vr  oe3  mercurius  yn  tramwy  .  .  .  ef  a  darganfy  .  .  .  Crwbach  vor 
bysgodyn  .  .  .  yr  oeS  yr  esgyrn  oil  ynghyd  ...  a  ifen  ohwthai  y 
gwynt  yn  hylith  yr  esgyrn  hyu  ,  .  .  ymrafayiion  leision  cydsonedic 
a  vyda  &c. 

202  Henway  athrawon  Cerd  Crwthl :  Ryderch  voel  /  Oloff  &c. 

203  Talaith  Aherffro-~prydyttion  §  :  Lewys  ap  Edw:  o  votvari 
pencerd  /  J.  Brwynoc  o  dir  mon  pencerd  /  Sim:  vychan  o  dyffryn 
k.  /  J.  Tydyr  o  lanelwy  /  Morys  ap  }.  ap  einion  o  Vfionyft  // 
Tylynorion :  Hwlkyn  Uwyd  o  rythyn  dysgybl  p.  kerfliaid:  /  Jhon  ap 
Kys  o  dir  mon  or  vn  rad  end  arcs  istedfod  /  W.  Penllyn  o  rad  pen- 
cerd yr  vn  fpynyd  /  J.  delynor  o  lyn  d.  p.  /  Robert  ap  ho:  llanfawr 
o  bwUheli  d,  p.  /  lewis  ap  Rankin  o  dolgelle  d.  p.  /  dai  mainan  o 
Ian  doged  dysgybl  p.  /  ap  John  rys  o  dir  mon  d.  p.  /  tomas 
anwyl  o  vaenan  d.  penkerdaiS  /  Jer:  vab  'j,  dylynor  d.  p. 

204  Talaith  VATHRAFdL—prydydionX  :  Gr:  hir  aethog  o  Ian  gollen 
p.  cerd  /  Hvw  arwystl  o  rwystli  /  morgan  Elvel  o  dre  esgob  /  Ho: 
ap  syr  mathe  /  W.  Uyn  d.  dysgyblaid  /  Owen  ap  syr  ifan  dysgybl  d.  / 
jf.  tew  brydyd  d.  ysbas  // 

Telynorion :  Rys  wyn  o  bowys  d.  d.  /  D.  Uwyd  o  gydeweu  d.  d.  / 
lewys  ap  ho;  wyn  o  bowys  d.  d.  /  Hugh  dai  o  blwy  Riwabon  d.  d.  / 
Richart  glyn  d.  d.  /  Hugh  ap  morys  o  lansilyn  d.  d.  /  Jhon  ap 
Edwart  /  Jhams  morlas  o  groesoswallt  d.  ysbas  /  J.  ap  mredyd  ap 
Ho;  goch  o  swyd  y  wayn  d.  ysbas  ,  // 

Crythorion :  %  Jamys  eytyn  o  Vaylor  p.  cerd  /  morys  grythor  o 
groes  oswallt  d,  d.  /  Edw:  grythor  o  Riwabon  d.  d,  /  Rob:  ap  ^ifan 
Uwyd  0  wrexam  d.  d.  /  W.  goch  o  bowys  wenwynwyn  d,  d.  /  tomas 
dali  /  tomas  Uwyd  o  gegidfa  d.  ysbas. 


•  Also  in  Pen:  MS.  168,  p.  36.  f  Also  in  Pen:  MS.  169,  p.  356. 

J  Also  in  Pen;  MS..169,  p.  952,  §  Ibid.  p.  863-5. 


MUSIC,  POETS,  MINSTREI<S  ETC,  920 

205  Evo  y  veio  vawai  /  vo  evo  &c. 

b.  y  wav  aj  weay  o  wu  /  yw  vawai  &c. 

c,  (0  Jedwi  eiSi  i  eJaw  /  y  JoeJ  &c.     V.  hepynl  ne  D.  ap  Janhjn  vi/chan) 
20G  Henwait  y  XXIVpamp  yV^aX  a  vyant  gynt  ynarveretlio  &c, 
207  JLyma  r  XXIV  messy r  &c.,     as  in  Pen.  MS.  155,  p.  68. 

216  Henway  hen  wyr  wrth  gerd :  Amffion  delynor  ...  a  brydod 
gwaith  Caer  devas  ,  .  .  Pan  aetli  gwallawc  l>ir  y  dir  mab  doa  &c. 

b.  Tri  bard  y  syd :  Prifaid  .  posvarft  .  arwySvard  .  &o, 

217  TrioeS  messyr,  synwyr  a  ehynghaned 
b.  yY  kystawglwyth,  (c)  y  tair  ber  iach 

218  Y  Doe  hen  pan  oeS  yn  oed  pvm  kant  mlwy3  y  ganwyd  til  inftb 
.  ,  sem  &c.  .  .  .  xy  Teyrmis  Asia  ,  .  .  .  xii  Teyrnas  Afiioa  .  ,  .  , 
xiiii  Teyrnas  Evropa 

b.  Saith  gelfydyd  Rydion :  Gramadeg  /  music/  Dileclidid  /  Rethop- 
ic/  Geometria  /  arismetica  /  astrologia. 
Gramadec  yw  mam  y  kylfydode  oil  &c. 

223  JLyma  val  y  gwnaethir  mewn  Jfest  Reial :  yn  gynta  dim  ar  y 

del  yr  bwrS  Uiain  /  halen  /  transyrie  &c followed   by  llaSiad 

garan,  pavn,  greyr  (224),  y  deryn  y  bwnn,  kelioc  hoed,  ar  gilfinliir. 
Y  cwri  cyntaf  &c.  or  pysgod  (225),  potes  glas  y  pasc,  capwltieid, 
venston  o  gig  myllt  yny  isgell  (226).     The  way  to  make  various  dishes 

such  as  started,  mortraws  brawn  &c ends :  Cymer  draed  perchill 

wedy  y  berwi  ay  Roy  mewn  cwrw  y  sefyll/a  ffan  vynych|| 

221-44  Heraldric  devices  {tnostly  coloured)  with  maternal  pedigree) 
in  the  autograph  of  Si mwnt  Vychan.  The  following  are  the  principal 
names :  Sivi^n  mam  Rob:  chwitnai,  Gwladvs  m.  Rog:  vychan,  Alsswn 
vechan  m.  John  o  Pilstwn  hen,  llevkv  m.  Ho:  ap  f.  ap  gr:  /  Eva  m. 
Mad.  ap  Elissav  /  Lowri  mam  Mad:  ap  Rob:  /  Lleukv  m.  Rob:  ap  Ric: 
ap  syr  Roger  /  Annes  m.  syr  J.  dawltwn  ^evaf  /  Joned  ystanlai  m.  W. 
vychan  /  Generys  m.  Gtm  ap  Gr:  /  Eva  m.  Gr:  ap  Gim  /  Annes  m.  J.  ap 
gr:  ap  Mad:  ddv  /  Elizabeth  don  m.  syr  To:  Salbri  /  Elizabeth  m. 
fankin  don  /  katrin  va.  syr  Pyrs  o  dytwn  /  Annes  m.  Tho.  hen  o  Salbri  / 
Margred  m.  Harri  ap  Rawling  Salbri  &c. 

The  following  items  {in  later  hands)  occur. 

92  bvm  nerthol  rj-miol  o  nwv  a  gallv  &c  .  i64S  Anon  a 

108  Na  werth  nef  golef  cr  golyd  bydol  &c.  „      b 

220  Kain  irwen  feiawen  fwyniaith  odidog  &e.  „      e 

b.  Mae  serchowgrwydd  rhwydd  yn  rhan  ymerched  &c.  „      d 

c.  mewn  awr  mown  dwyawr  myn  dewi  mewn  dydd  &c.  „       e 

d.  Mihangel  a  gabriel  a  gobryd  a  mathew  rhag  methv  rhoU  amyd  / 

e.  dvw  a  seinio  des  enyd  a  hindda  i  gael  bara  ir  byd  Hityn  grydd  g 

221  Mi  agawn  gan  ferch  fymherchi  gynt  &c.  Anon  h 

b.  na  waria  moth  dda  gad  gida  thi  fenaid  &c.  „  i 

c.  nid  myfi  leni  ddyn  lana  i  dvU  &c.  „  h 

d.  na  farned  dyn  ar  vn  arall  ormod  &c.  „  I 
22S  gartre  i  m^re  mvdrwr  lein  barffed  &c.  »>  »' 


MS  148=H:en.  364,  formerly  "234."    Hehaldry.    Paper;  8|x6f 
inches;' folios  6-32,  37-421';  xviith  century;  boards— binding  and  MS. 

Folios  t)-32^  37''-38»  contain  heraldic  devices  of  which  the  greater 
number  are  well  drawn  and  coloured.     The  writing  of  the  earlier  part 

P  B.2 


^24  PENIARTH  MANUSCBIPTS  148-151. 

v'  -■ " 

and  of  most  of  the  Index  is  very  neat,  and  a  few  entries  are  in  the  hand 
of  George  Owen,  lord  of  Kemes.  There  are  also  other  hands  in  the 
second  half  of  the  MS.  The  superscription  of  the  Gwenwynwyn  shield 
(p.  29)  is  from  the  pen  of  Rob:  Vaughan  of  Hengwrt.  TJiere  are  nine 
shields  on  every  page,  and  the  principal  families  of  Wales  are  represented. 
The  shield  of  "S^  Henrie  Williams  als  Cromwell  knighte  "  is  the  first 
on  fol.  6.  • ' 

■   Fols;  39t421'.    Index  to  the  proper  names  over  the  shields.  : 


MS.  149  =  Hen.  233.  Hebaldky.  Paper;  7i  X  5  inches;  fols. 
1-10,  12-107;  the  work  of  Sion  kain  with  an  Index  in  the  hand  of 
Robert  Vaughan  (died  1666) ;  bound  in  calf. 

ifos  7av  yr  /  28  /  .  .  o  vis  Ebrill  o.  ^.  1575  y  gwelais  drwy  vy^hvu  yn  yr  awyri 
Kyngof  ar  nevoedd  gadw  mawr  o  adar  klaer  wnion  megis  gwylain  nev  golomennpd 
yn  hedec  yn  vchel  heb  ddim  ynghymysc  a  hwy  ac  ar  i  hoi  yr  oedd  adar  gwnion  or 
Tn  kyffelib  ond  bod  yni  plith  adar  a  lliw  dv  megis  brain  a  rrai  o  honyn  yn  hedec  gan 
ystlys  yr  adar  gwnion  yn  is  yn  yr  awyr  nar  Eai  gwnion  di  gymysgedic  a  rrai  olat 
nid  oedd  giraaint  or  Kai  duon  ond  ymbell  rn  yn  kymysc  ac  hwy  yn  hedec  tva  /  r  / 
gogledd  dybygwn  i 

22  .  o  vis  mehevin  1575  y  gwelwn  ddayardor  mawr  yn  byllav  dvon  a  pheth  dwfr 
yn  rredec  o  honynt  aninav  yn  EdrycU  ar  rai  ar  adwaenwn  yno  ac  is  law  y  pyllav  y 
byddai  dau  ao  Ef  avyddai  ryw  ddyn  yn  troi  ber  ac  Edoryn  arno  wedi  blvo  yn  vyw 
ac  ni  wuai  yr  aderyn  na  marw  na  rrostio  ond  i  groen  e  biliai  ac  er  hynny  ni  wnai 
ond  ymoddef. 

The  above  is  written  on  the  inside  of  the  front  cover  by  Eys  Cain  probably ;  there 
are  notes  in  the  hand  of  Rob.  Vaughan  on  the  fly  leaf,  and  the  bookplate  of  E.  Wmes. 
Vaughan  of  Hengwrt  on  the  next  leaf. 

Fols.  1.3-23*'.  A  genealogical  table  beginning  with  Beli  Mawr  &nd 
ending  with  Kynan,  Tewdor,  and  Bleddyn  princes  respectively  of 
Aberffro,  Dinefwr  and  Mathraval.  The  shields  of  these  three  princes 
as  well  as  those  of  kadwaladr,  Merfyn  vrych  &  Essyllt,  Kodri  Mawr  & 
angharad,  Anarawd,  Kadell  &  Merfyn  are  given, 

.  Fols.  24.-86*'.  The  Heraldic  Devices  and  shields  (neariy  all  coloured) 
of  the  chief  Welsh  families. 

Fols.  103-106''.     Index  to  the  names  of  the  bearers  of  arms. 


MS.  150  =  Hen.  418.  The  Arms  (beautifully  coloured)  of  D'  John 
Williams  as  Dean  of  Westminster,  Bp.  of  Lincoln,  and  Lord  keeper 
of  the  Great  Seal,  atque  Carmine  Heroico.  Vellum ;  8  X  6  inches  ; 
16  pages  with  two  leaves  of  paper  at  the  beginning  and  end  respectively ; 
xTiith  century ;  limp  vellum. 

Inside  the  front  cover  is  the  book-plate  of  "  Arthur  Williams  of  Meillionydd  Esq.'' 
There  are  also  particulars  of  "  An  Atchievmcnt "  at  Ystyra  Colwyn  (p.  14)  and  a 
note  about  Williams'  Scholarships  at  Cambridge  (p.  16). 


MS.  151  =  Hen.  193.  «  Bbith-waith  ,1638.  r:Sef  ILyfr  cxjmysgediq 
o  gywyddaii  amryw  brydyddion  ac  Athrawon  Cymrag.  William  Morris 
Mihefin  /lO/  1638."  Paper;  7f  X  6f  inches, :, 80  folios,  plus  i-xiv; 
sewn,  with  thick  leather  covers. 

This  MS.  is  an  early  specimen  of  the  writing  of  W,  Maurice  of  Cefn  y  braich, 
Llansilin,  Denbighshire.  The  following  names  occur:  Hughe  Conwy  fychan  of 
Brynevryn  (vii)  ;  Morris  Cadwalad  his  booke  1709 ;  Llj'fur  Evnp  Uoyd,  rhodd  M, 
Cadwalad,  1726  (p.  1).  ■     . 


HERALDBY,'^AND  BRITHWAITH  1638,  925 

ii,      Toijical  Index. 

A  gair  dim  yn  vchaf—jf'r  hyd 
1       Y  tir  ail  ■  Uety'r  helwyr  a 

dy  help  i  ymado  a  hwn  Edmiond  Prys 

3       Dwedais  nid  -a  i  wadv     .     .     .'    .  b 

Ay  help  i  fyned  i  hwmi  »  » 

56       Y  gwr  a  roes  ei  wryd     ....  c 

berffaith  heb  drmigc  beb  orffen  Gwerul  mechain 

lb   Y ceiliocbronfrgith:  Ba  ryw  edn  o  Baradwys     .     .     .     .      d 
nid  dyn  onid  dvw'n  ibig  Ston  Tvdvr 

' Ifaricnadeu  G)':  llwycfap  Dd:  ub  Engion  Lyglixc 
^  9b       "^hel  yr  wyf  yn  ochain     ....  e 

•    Enaid  Gruffvdd  Uwyd  yno  Eys  gocli  o  eryri 

13      ^Pam  -in  cen  heb  aweaydd    ....  / 

dy  nod  par  im  glod  gann  gler  2&'«  tnoel  y  pantri 

15  Atteb  Ji\ymliie  yn  y  farnad  uchod 

ILew  brwydr  fal  Haw.  Bredvr     ....  g 

dvried  wr  dyred  /i/  iawn  Rhys  yoch  o  eryri 

lib  Atteb  :  Rhos  dy  liw  Rhys  dylvaidd     ....  h 

a  Gwynedd  iy  ngoganv  iL'w  moel  y  pantri 

196  Atteb :  Dewr  ddrvd  llewelyn  daer  ddraig     ....  i 

awch  ym  mrwydr  a  chymrodedd  Mys  goch  o  Eryri " 

226  Atii  wellhad  Jeuan  gr:  ap  Siancin  o  Iwydiarlh 

O  lefyd  ym  mrig  gwyl  ifan  k 

Cor  nef  a  wna  cryf  yn  wann     .... 

can  nadolig  Cynn  d'elor  Tudvr  Penllyn 

24  /  Robart  Uwyd  is  y  Clawdd 

Ami  yw  rhai  ai  mawl  ar  hynt     ....  I 

a  del  vwch  hoedl  a  iechyd-         -  Wiliam  Uyn 

266  fofynmennganRob:Pilstwna  W.  Eutiin  dros  Elisav 

ab  JV.  0  Riivedoc :  Dan  'n  benn  a  roes  duw'n  y  byd  .  .  ,  m 
in  barwn  mawr  brynv  mwy  Wiliam  Uyn 

296  fr  byd :  Adrodd  y  gwir  ddrwy  d''uw  a  gaf    ....  n 

Ymrown  i  droi  mawr  yw  /n/  drwg  Jfan  tew 

32  A  fragment  (20  lines^  of  a  Cywydt  to  Owen  Glyndwr    • 

Myf yrip  y-  bv'm  i  farwn  Ac.  {^Jola  Goch]  o 

34  f  D.  ab  J.  ap  E'/nion  .■  Y.  blaenaf  p  bobl  Wynedd  ....       -p 

o  Wynedd  am  annedd  mwy  dd:  nanmor 

35  f  erchi  2faen  nielin- :  pwy  oil  a  gair  pell  i  gyd     .     .     .     .    q 
'    a  roe  ddwydorth  yrddedig  Sion  Ceri. 

37  J'r  givmpniaeth  hen  cCr  newydd 

Gwae'r  hen  a  gae  hir  einioes     ....  r 

gida  ni  na  ddigied  neb  Sion  Phylyp 

51       Gwae  a  fae'n  brvdd  rhag  ofn  brad  * 

ag  a  oeres  ei  gariad    .     ,    .     . 
y  ddaear  ach  ysgar  chwi  gr;  ap  Jfan  ap  ll'nfychan 

426       Y  gwr  doeth.gowira  dyn     ....  i 

i  barhav  ir  neb  ai  rhoes  Tomas  Prys 

i5b  J  erchi  Sion  Prys  iyrrv'r  SaesQii  0  Bowys  '         ^'>'<' 

Glanha  ar  frys  Bowys  oi  bon     ....  a 

meistr  Prys  daionys  fo  dvw  ynod  .       Jfan  Tew  brydydd 


026  PfiNfARtH  MANtTSCRIPT  ISl. 

476  Eurbarch  ym  gyfarch  esgob  glan  addfwyn     ....  a 

roi  enioes  ir  Esgob  ni  dadwisge  Robert  Clidro 

49   Y  march  ;  Doe  cenes  y  mynwes  mor     ....  6 

Avr  gledde  mawr  arglwydd  Mon  Rob:  Clidro 

60b   Y  milgi :  Mi  wn  glod  i  berson  glan     ....  c 

A  mel  nid  Caer  am  y  ki  Clidro 

526  J  erchi  march  i  Thomas  Hanmer  Porkinton  .  1603  , 

T  corph  enwog  hit  ifyniant    ,    .    ,.   .  d 

f  dreio  i  oes  yn  dy  raid  Rys  Cain 

Bob.  Mar:  D.  Hanmer  :  Ystyriwu  gwrs  di  eiriach    ,    ,    ,  e 

ei  fab  dewr  fo  byw  deiroes        .  'l6o^  .  „      „ 

696  7  /•  Mredt/dd :  Vn  pinagl  yw  ein  penaetb    .    .    ,    •  / 

Jfan  y  bych  fyw'n  benn        ,  160§  .  „      „ 

62  /  Andrew  Mredydd :  Da  bwriadwyd  briodas    ....  g 

A  thros  r  bain  wythoes  yr  hydd  Edd;  Maelor 

64  Mar:  A,  Mredydd :  Cwyno  rwyf  arren  ryfedd     ....       h 
Andrew  i  fewn  daiar  faith         ,  l6og  ,  John  Davies 

666  Mar:  S.  Mwcston :  Dy  nawdd  ar  lied  noddwr  llv  .  .  .  .  i 

ai  dri  oed  iw  aer  Edvvart  Rys  Cain 

706  f  5  merch  A.  Mredydd :  Or  had  tra  glan  ar  tir  glwys  ....    k 
iach  hefyd  drwy  orchafiaeth  fVatthin  Clywedog 

77  ^'r  clerwr :  Ni  ddoe  grothell  bell  o  byllod  Uynav  &c.  ...  t 

dos  di  i  rewi  .  .  .  was  bvrt  ffbl  Bichart  phylib    Rol.  v'n 
776       yn  nhy  Sion  dirion  caf  dario  i  ochel  &c.       Rissiart  Phylib  m 
c      Crosed  dav  obed  m^gin  trybedd  grad  &c.    Syr  hvw  Rob:  lien  n 
d      Coffr  hidl  her  a  gridl  trybedd  &c.  Wat:  Clywedog  o 

78  Mae  4  liowddgar  im  hav  ei  mowlgerdd  &c.    S.  Clywedog  p 

b,  CaJyn  plad<>r  d^r  ar  ddant  y  rhostir  &c.        Syr  Morgan  q 

c.  y  mrig  nadolig  mwyn  devlv  ceisswyn       Rhissiart  Phylib  r 

l^b      Dyn  bVr  wyth  natvr  ai  chnawd  yn  bvrwyn    ....       s 
a  byw  cyd  hebod  Cadi  Will  llyn 

c.  Gwain  bach  o  briddach  brav  i  fagad  &c.  Wm:  Pvw   I 

d,  J  Lynn  egwystl :  Mae'r  sir,  mae'r  bir  ?  mae'r  bwyd  ?  w 

mae'r  byrdde  ?  &c.  Anon 

79  For  keindnesse  meildnesse  tome  ensvinge    ....  » 
is  tyed  and  fixed  fast                                          John  Davies 

b,      Daw  glanweilch  haelweilch  a  holion  attnd  &c.  Anon  te 

C,  Hiraeth  am  Lywelyn  ai  wyr :  Mae'r  llys  yn  Niwbwrch  x 

mae'r  llyn  mae'r  evrglod  &c.  llowarch  offeirad 

796  fr  pysgodyn  a  ddoeth  i  dir  yn  Ardvdwy 

Ystor  lawn  a  gawn  i  gyd  or  eigion     ....  y 

ei  gorpws  brwnt  yn  garpiav  Gr:  Phjlip 

b,  Pe  cawn  fras  fatras  ar  fvtra  aned  &c.  Roger  Cyffin  s 

c,  y  da  a  basia  bob  dydd  ar  goll  &c.     Ddi  ap  dd:  llwyd    aa 

80  monei  "j  have  not  manie  they  are  gone  &c.  R.  ky:    bb 

I'-  J  "/y  ^^'^^  •■  y™  mhob  clod  barod  bybyrwych  Eisiart  ...    cc 
yn  ddidrair  weddi  drosod  Sion  Cain 

^Oi       Y  x'^^xed  mab  i  Siapheth  Samotes  gaijr  &c. 


TH*  POETICAL  WORKS  OF  GUTTO'B  GLYNN,  927 

Gl™?  Ac?^"^"'"'  ^^^-  ^^^  PoKTiCAT.  Works  of  Gutto'k 
,orf  \f  Paper;  7|x6  inches;  "321"  pages  (320  pages  in 
reahty  the  pagmator  having  « skipped  77");  impfrfec    at  4fnning 

The  name  of  the  "  Rev  Lewis  Owen  of  Wacn  faoh  Llanegrya  "  occurB  on  p.  1. 
1       [Mynnwn  ymod  mewn  un  manj     ....  « 

||ir  .  esgob  ar  tair  ysgol  (i.  12)     , 

cwff  euraid  caffo  hiroes  .  /  '  Gutto'r  Glynn 

3  f  S'^  Jo^  Mechain  :  duw  a  roes  ym  o  dir  saint     ...  ti 

Siars  na  mach  Syr  Sion  Mechain 
6  Etto:  ]folo  tuthiodd  at  ^thael    ....  c 

Trunio  a  atto'r  annedd 
8      Rhoi  ty'r  wyf  vry  ar  y  vron     ....  a 

mae  mendith  am  y  maendp  . 

12  fdd:Abad:  Yngred  pei  gallwn  redeg     ....  « 

ty'r  beirdd  a  ffoet  hir  y  bo .  / 

15  Jr  dean  Cyffin :  Mae  vn  ceidwad  mewn  cadair    ...  / 

modveddau  meudwy  vyddaf 
IS       Tii  llu  aeth  i  Gymru  gynt     ....  „ 

Cymru  a  dry  yn  dy  raid./ 

21       Y  gwr  ar  war  y  garreg     ....  ^ 

nid  vn  pab  end  mab  mair 

24      Mae  ceidwad  in  gwlad  a'n  gwledd    ....  »' 

a  phwyth  hon  a  pheithynau  .  / 

28      Dy  fedd  nis  gadawa  fi     .     .     .     .  k 

y  tri  'n  vn  ymlaen  Tren  wyd 
30       ^echyd  i  wr  vchod  el     ...     .  / 

Newydd  hen  fydd  a  hyn  font  . 

33       Mae  gwahawdd  ym  a  gohir    ....  rn 

i  hwn  eilwaith  hen  Wilym  .  / 

35      Mae'r  henwyr  ?  ai  meirw  y  rheini  ?    .    ,    ,    .  n 

tri  ag  vn  trwy  wiw  gennad 

38   Y  C.  vtios  i  dd:  llwyd  ap  dd:  a  Einn  or  dref  newydd 

Dafydd  mae'r  beirdd  yn  dyfod     ,     .     .     .  0 

an  hyfryd  byd  heb  dy  ben  .  / 

41       Sieffre  a  yf  osai  fTrainc     ....  p 

ceii^w  yn  Sieb  ar  corn  i  Sion./ 

45  f  Mathew  Goch :  Pan  sonier  in  amser  ni    .    .     .    .  « 

a  gair  ILoegr  y  gwr  lliwgoch  ./  »  43 

47  7  Harri  Ddti  0  Euas  :  ILe  nad  da  lliw  onid  dii    .     .     .  r 

angel  duw  yngwlad  Euas  .  / 

50  Et(o:  Y  du  hydr  or  deheudir    ,    ,    -,    ,  g 

collaist  a  roist  callestr  wyd  .  / 

63    J  S,  Llwyd  abhd  G.  E. — Gwledd  arglwydd  y  synwyr     ....  t 

arglwyddi  Cymry  arglwydd  Cymro  .  Guttvn  Owain 

♦  The  numbers  asterisked  refer  to  copies  in  Cwrlmawr  MS,  ig. 


928  liENURTH  MANUSCBIPT  152. 

.55  y  Syr  Risiart  Gethin:  Oer  oedd  weled- vrddolipn  ...        of 
ai  cliadw  a  wnel  Otwel  ytiw  . 

,  58  /  abad  Abey  fforied :  Mi  euthyra  i  Ymwythig     ....       b 

tir  fFerm  Gutto  ywr  IPoried  /         HI 

60  Mar:  Gr:  vychan  ap  Gr:  ap  Union  o  Gors  y  gedol 

Duw  hen  dug  Edwart  frenhin     ....  C 

oes  hir  ir  arglwyddes  honn .  / 

63  Mar:  Arg:  Herbert :  Dawns  o  Bowls  dpe'n  ysbeiliwyd  .  .  -    d 
iarll  oi  fab  -arall  a  fo  .  /         .  109  , 

67  J  Syr  Bossier  CinCiston  pannwnawd  ynfarchawg 

'  circa  IJfOg ' :  Awst  i  lias  fynghastell  i     .     .     ,     .  e 

,  a.merch  iarll  ymreichiav  hwnn  .  +55 

70       Y  mae  glaw  am  a  glywais     ....  / 

Y  Hew  dii  oil  :ai  diail  ,  /        *554 

73  7  ofyn  wtcnaiff  i  Ruff:  ap  Rys  o  Lanverres  yn  J&l .  / 

Yn  driffeth  yth.woaed  Euffivdd     ,     ,     .     .  g 

triffwyth  dy  faslart  Ruffydd../         *69 

77       Robart  gorywch  riw  aber     ....  h 

Ni  bwyf  vnsul  heb  fenswn  ,         *53  ■ 

80      Mae  e^'yr  ar  hoU  wyr  lieu    ....  » 

yn  arvau  maeu  ar  vy  medd  ..,/ 

82       Dyn  traws  fvip  y^  dwyn  tros  for     ...     .  h 

ar  ai  gwisg  yra  i  gysgv  .  /         *e45 
86       Mredydd  ai  yma'r^y4wyd  ^.     .     .  ■  .        •  / 

moes  farcli  ag  arch  a  fo  gwell         *647 

89       Milwr  a  gar  moli  gwydd     ....  m 

cael  evro'r  bwcclai  arall .  /        *fi64 

91  J  ovyn  Hiling  gwely  ,gan  ^3  Rob:  Ptthtwn,  g,  gr:  ap  IVn 

ap  gr:  0  Lyn :  Elen  avr  len  ar  Lannercb     ....       n 
Uenn  arglwyddes  y  llannerch        *706 

94  y  D.  ap  Meurig  V'n  o  Nannav  i  ddiolch  amfarch 

Bron  draw  bievr  enw  a  drig     ....  0 

nr  Elen  ai  heifioles  '.    '     62  &  716 

07       A  oes  vnplas  yn  siampler  ?     '.  -  .     .    .  .p 

'■'  a  brawd  ir  iarli  biav'r  drych 

100       Ai  gwledd  a  wnaeth  farglwyddwawr    ,     ,     ,     ,  q 

nid  el  heb  ddwyn  y  dalaith 

103       Gjnt  y  rhoed  yn  gynta  rhaii     ....  r 

val  i  raab  fo  Wiliam  yn 
105  Edw:  IV :  Mae'r  tarw'  mawr  or  Mortmcriaid     ....  s 

degfed  wyd  dwg  fyd  i  iawn  ,  / 
108  f  Jolin  Bw'rcK:  Ni  chair  vdtvs  ua  Chrbtiawn     ....         t 

dyro  i  Sipn  deiroes.  hydd        *4l 
ilO  Mar:'  Einion  dp  Gr:  ap  Rys  0  Lechwedd  ysdrad 

Dwfr  Alwen  doe  fv'r  wylaw    ....  «« 

fv  Einion  nef  "yw  enaid  ./        *45 

113       Y  Ihvyn  gwydr  yn  llan  Gedwyn     .     .    .    t  v 

duw  a  wn«l  fab  dv  yn  wyn  .  / 


*  The  nnm^crs  asteri^keti.  rcf$r  to  copies  ip  Cwrtjnawx  MS.  12, 


THE  POETICAL  WOftKS  OF  GtTTO'R  GLYNN.  929 

116       Tyfodd  gwr  at  Dafydd  gam     ...    .  a 

y  tri'n  vn  ymlaen ,  Tren ,  wyd  ./        *5o 
120       Delwais  o  glwyf  a  dolvr     ....  b 

pren  per  yr  hnclder  ai  rhoes         *65 
122       Prelad  ar  yn  gwlad  o  Glwyd  i  Ddyfrdwy     ....  c 

vn  duw  ath  atto  i  lywio'r  wlad  .  / 
125       ILys  ihydd  ym  sydd  ansoddav  Uv  dalm     ....  d 

He  i  rhoed  lies  erloed  llys  rhydd  .  /         *77 
129. Mar:  Rys  abad  Y.  Wlur  :  Dyn  wyf  er  doe  a  anafwyd  ...       e 

taled  Duw  ni  bydd  tlawd  hwn  .  /         *80 
133       Y  gwr  ai  dy  ar  y  garreg     ,     .     ,     ,  f 

pen  cenedl  pennaig  Gwynedd  ,  /        *83 

135      Pwy  yn.  i  gwlad- penaig  y  wledd     ....  g 

tir  brenin  teirbro  Wynedd         *85 

138      MU  drwg  a  fv  ymHowys  draw    ....  A 

taler  i  haelder  i  honn  .  /         *89 

140  Mar:  HJn  ap  y  Moel :  Mae  arch  yn  Ystrad  Marchell  ...         i 
yr  wyl  a  nef  yw  i  rodd  .  /         *9i 

143       Teimlwr  gwyr  teml  ior  gwiw  rent     ,     ,     .     ,  k 

brenin  brwydr  brodir  Gwont  .  /         *94 
146  Mai-:  Mevrig  Vychan  o  JVannau  ai  wraig 

Mawr  frr  cri  am  y  trihael     ....  / 

ar  ddav  sydd  vrddas  vddyn         *97 

149       Mi  a  ir  wlad  lie  .mae'r  wledd     ....  m 

gwisg  henavr  gossawg  Gwynedd        *99 
151       Tair  blynedd  rhyfedd  fy'  rhain    ....  n 

brad  dewythr  Herbert  ieuanc        *ioo 
154  7  Sieffrai  Cyffin  :  Tyfodd  vn  o  blant  difcth  ....  o 

ni.  bq'r  gwr  heb  avr  ag  5^d         *103 

157       Caewyd  deurvdd  catterwen     ....  p 

Uawenydd  oil  yw  enaid  .         *105 

1:59       Y  gwrda  o  gywirdeb     ....  q 

yw  tvedd  fry  hyd  dydd  frawd  .  /         *87 

162       Sain  Cristoffr  a  f.v  yn  offrwra     ....  r 

ar  fyngliefn  er  fynghyfoeth  .  / 

165       Dafydd  o  brafF\yydd  broffwyd     ....  '        s 

yw  roi  yn  He  yr  hen  llys  .  / 

168  /  Ho:  ap  feu:  o  Voelyrch  :  Howel  ni  chysgaf  havnch    ...     t 
ni  chwarddaf  oni  cherddy 

Itl  f  Syr  Wm:  Thomas  arghoydd  Rhaglan 

Sal  rhvgl  yw  seiliwr  Ehaglan     ....  « 

gem  ar  wyr  holl  Gymrv  wyd  ./ 

l7o  Mar:  Sion  aMadog  Pilstim 

Wylofus  wyf  fal  afon     ....  ,.         ", 

a  chynydd  ir  »wrcichionen 

i'S  f  R.  Pilstwn  0  Emral:  Pwy  ay  geidwad  teirgwlad  hy  .  .  .   w 
teiroe.s  ar  iad  Roisier  wyun 

f  The  numbers  astciiskt'd  jefer  to  copies  in  Cwrlmawr  MS.  ii 


930  PENIAUTH  MANUSCRIPT  152. 

180  3Iol:  Meurig  Vychan  o  Nannav  ap  Ho:  Selau 

Mawr  fv  Howel  aMeurig    .    ,     ,    ,  a 

aed  i  farw  i  dai  Veurig 

183  Mar:  Harri  ddv  o  Evas 

.Doe  dnvfv'r  deav  derfyn    ....  h 

gadv  hil  yn  goed  i  hwnn 

186  J  dd:  llwyd  o  Aber  tanad :  Af  ddvwsvl  foddiis  aelwyd  ...     e 
o  goed  da  ef  a  gaed  hwnn 

188  7  S.  Hanmei' :  Cwngcweryr  oedd  y  gwyr  gynt    .    .    ,    .     d 
carw'r  Djai  ar  cwngcwerwr  llwyd 

191  J  S.  Edw:  or  Wavn :  Hawddamawr  ir  wledd  fawr  fav  .  ,  .    e 
hir  hagr  hwyr  ith  ddygaf 

194  /  veib  S.  ^rfw;.— :Yr  eryrod  eryraidd    .    .    ,    ,  / 

ag  enaid  pawb  o  gnawd  pvr 

196  _7  Edw:  ah  Dd:  — Haw.er  nos  llew'r  wavu  isaf    ....         g 
fo  duw  nef  aed  yni  wart .  / 

199       Pav  dir  ni  newidiwyn  vn     .     .     .     .  h 

ni  bo  iarll  Penfro  heb  hwnn .  / 

201  Mol:  Syr.Rys  o.A.  Marlais  :  Carat' vrddol  Oaer  vyrddin  .  .      i 
dros  i  dad  a  droes  dvw  ynn  . 

204  Mol:  W.  Fychan  o  L.  dy  Gai :  A  adeilo  o  hiidoliaeth  ...       k 
pen  cenedl  pennaig  Gwynedd 

206  y  Dd:  abad  Ystrad  niarchell  a  Dd:  abad  Glyn  Egwestl 

Mae  deusant.  im  dewisaw     ....  I 

ar  meitr  a^T  am  ei  iad  traw 

209  Mar:  Syr  Bened  o  Gorwen  :  Mi  a  welais  man  wylaw  .  .  m 

ynn  gael  dyn  vn  glod  yno .  / 

212  Mol:  Dd:  Abad  Glynn  Egwestl 

ILwyddiant  i'r  tenant  ar  tai  a'r  wengaer    .    .    .    i  n 

wledd  yn  ^esu  Iwyddiannusaf 
Page  215  is  Wank,  and  pp.  216-25  are  wanting. 
226       Deubeth  a  red  drwy'r  gwledydd     ....  o 

o  dda'n  Mars  ni  ddevwn  mwy 
228  Alteb:  Svlien  ach  ceidw  syr  Bened    ....  p 

am  wlan  degn-m  y  leni .  /  Tudvr  Penllyn 

231  .4«e6  ;  Diwedd  -  hen  fv'r- fargen  fav    ....  q 

nag  \vyn  i  gynfigenwr  Gutto  or  Glynn 

234       Medd)'lio  dd  wyf  om  nwyfiant     ....  r 

gwir  ddychan  a  fydd  rhan  rhai  Jeu:  Vn  ap  J.  ap  Adda 

237  Atteb  :  Ystod  hir  wastad  hoywrym     ....  s 

eled  i  gerdded  ac  ef  Mredydd  ap  Rhys 

240  Atteb:  Dihareb  wir  o  hirynt    ....  t 

i  hawl  0  gwna  oed  a  hi  ^eu:  Vychan  ap  J.  ap  Adda 

243      Gorav  swydd  fal  gyrrv  saeth    .    ..     .    «  « 

a  minuev  yn  dwyn  meinwen  deg      Jeu:  ap  Ho:  Stvrdwal 

245  Atteb :  Gwir  iawn  fvr  geiriav  enaid     ....  v 

at  fwyncu  Lattai  fenyw  E^owdden 

247       Claf  wyf  eisier  cael  y  ferch    ....  w 

ar  f&l  bol  y  bayol  byd  dd:  llwyd  ap  ll'n  ap  Gr: 


l>oi:TRif  Bi?  qutto'r  glynk  and  others.  931 

249  Atteb :  Cennad  wyf  a  wna  cynen    .    ,    .     ,  a 

wissorwy  was  o  Vrien  JL'm  ap  Guttvn 

251       Drygan  yw  draw  a  ganwyf     .     .     .     ,  b 

gwrdd  fydd  y  gair  iddo  fo  *58  Ho:  dd:  ap  J.  ap  Rys 
254  Atteb:  Ewcli  yn  iach  ni  chwennychaf    ....  c 

roeso  lie  ni  chaffo  chwaith         *60  Gulto'r  Glyn 

257       Eirchiad  yii  siarad  y  sydd     ....  d 

oes  dalm  ai  clyw  ystlym  cler  Dd:  llwyd  ap  IVn  ap  Or: 
259  Atteb :  Dafydd  E,wyd  o  fodd  y  llv     .     ,     .     ,  e 

gwyn  i  fyd  y  byd  or  bedd  IL'n  ap  G^ttyn 

262  Pwy  oil  a  ddvg  pell  a  ddel    .    .    ,    ,  / 
byth  oi  hannedd  bythefnos                          Syr  Gr:  Vychan 

263  Cwyn  fyth  am  y  canv  fydd     ,    ,    ,    ,  g 
yn  oes  deicyn  nas  dyccai                                   Long  Lewys 

266  Utto ;  J  Eadur  ail  Arthur  lys     .     .     .     .  h 

am  ei  gan  mwy  o  gynnen .  /  „  ,, 

269  Atteb:  Bevno  oediog  ban  ydoedd    ....  i 

lliw  ^ddew  dv  lladdo  diawl  Syr  Gr:  vychan 

271       Tafarnwr  wyt  wr  llei  tarria/  dyuion     ....  k 

tvrion  ddyn  duw  ai  tro  yn  dda  dd:  Beinfitcr 

273  Atteb :  Credais  am  orfod  credv     ....  / 

etto  yfed  diofal  Gr:  ap  Jeu:  ap  R.  llwyd 

276  Atteb:  GrufFydd  awenydd  iownwych    ....  m 

dilid  y  modd  yn  dlawd  mwy  Dd:  Beintiwr 

278  Am  gymhortha :  Da  mewn  cyff  Dewi  Myny w     ....       n 

a  da'r  byd  nid  a  ir  bedd  Dd;  llwyd  ap  IVn  ap  gr: 

281  Atteb:  Mae  gwr  ym  dirmygv  i     ,    .    .    .  o 

arched  benu  eirchiaid  y  byd  JL'n  ap  Guttvn 

284       Y  ddyn  fwyn  a  ddoe'n  fynych     ....  p 

OS  cae  fil  drwy  nas  cae  fo  .  „  „ 

287  Atteb :  Gwae'r  vn  a  ddug  ir  ynys    ,    ,     .     .  q 

i  ddwy  glvst  a  ddwg  yw  law./  Lewys  M6n 

289  Atteb  :  Y  mae  dean  yn  rhannu     ....  r 

Cys  mein  ers  drwg  hwsmon  wyd .  /  R,'n  ap  Guttvn 

292       Tristach  yw  Cymrv  trostyn     ....  s 

naill  ai  Dduw  ai'n  Haw  ddiawl  K.'n  ap  Gvltvn 

294  Atteb  :  Mae  llcf  oer  mal  Uifeiriaint     ....  t 

i  Von  y  trig  f'enaid  draw  .  /  Gutto'r  Glynn 

297      Guttyn  y  Glyn  a  fv  glaf    »    .    .    .  u 

i  roi  i  arall  yr  owran  Syr  Rys 

300  Atteb:  Gwae  a  gynhaliodd  i  gyd     ....  v 

dan  y  gist  a  dwyn  i  gan  Gutlo  or  Glynn 

302       ILoer  wen  lliw  eira  vnnos     ....  w 

a  chael  nef  ddyn  wychlan  wyd .  Jeuan  Tew  brydydd 

304  Atteb:  feuan  fawl  winllan  wynllwyd     ....  x 

arnad  gwn  air  nid  gweniaith  ||    1.  26.    See  Catalogue,  p.  249  r. 

306  \A  fragment  {11  lines)  ending  :  y 

Moes  di'wy  hyrr  i  Meistr  Harri .  ^eu:  Tew  brydydd 


*  The  numbers  asterisked  refer  to  copies  iu  Ctvrtmawr  MS.  12, 


982  PENIARTH  MiNUSCRIPTS   152-163. 

•     b.   Gyrrv'r  ddraig  coali  at  Syr  Wm:  Tho:  o  Raglan  i  not 

gwregys  avr :  Y  ddraig  bab  arynaig  bobl     ,     .     :     .      a 
ar  gerdd  ir  marchog  yrddawl  Rhys  Goch  o  Eryri 

310  Atteb  :  Sathrodd  avr  seithradd  wryd  ....                        b 

ac  ynill  y  Morgannwg  iL'w  ap  y  Moel 

313       Y  dyn  a  sigwjd  i  iav     ....  c 

ac  oth  fors  gwae'r  wraig  ath  fedd  Dd:  ap  EdmwM 

316  \\A  fragment  {13  lines)  ending ; 

gad  dy  gastr  gida  y  gostrel  Gutto  or  Glyn  d 

b,      Clywch  son  megis  cloch  Sais    ....  e 

annysg  oedd  ym,nag  gwyddwn  Syr  Leioys  Meudwy 

318  Atteb:  Syr  Lewys  felys  ei  fwyd     ....  f 

dy  fwyd  yw  4y  4y  Jeudwy  Syr  Phylip  Emlyn 

321       Y  dyn  ai  had  o  Noe  hen     ....  g 

nid  an  ith  wjad.yn  oth  wled  If        1.19. 


MS.  153  —  Heh,  '457.  Poetky  by  W.  Phylip,  Edward  Moris, 
Owen  Griffith,  etc.  Pnper;  8  X  6  inches  ;  circa  1689;  246  pages;  in 
old  leather  cover.  •     • 

This  MS.  is  in  a  very  bad  state  of  preservatioiij— there  are  but  few  leaves 
perfect  at  the  edges  and  the  paper  is  in  a  most  brittle  condition.  The  writing  at  the 
outer  margins  is  often  more  or  less  imperfect. 

1      '||Ar  drydydd  ous  fethedig     ....  A 

'   **#•##**  jfaingc  ole 

3       Tir  bi-ydain  fawr  alluog  luosog  vchel  lysoedd     .     .    '.     .     i 
hebio  teflwcK  hwyht  yn  glir  Hunjfrey  Dd:  ap  Evan 

6       Prvdd  Iwm  ydiw  /r/  gorph  priddlyd     *     .     .  k 

is  livw  r  allt  faaeV  4  *  #  *  *        i.  73  Sion  Kent 

8  y  Byd  ar  golyd  yw  /r/  gelyn  ar  bar     ....  I 
fe  wur  i  huri  a'fo'rhaid                                                 Anon 

9  II  Mae  r  beirdd  or  ty  mae  r  bwrdd  tal     .     .     .     .  m 
heb  orphen  Amen  'mnl)  mair                      Dr  Sion  [y  Ae]n< 

11       fy  ffrins  am  gymdeithion  perflfeiddlwys  pur  ff[yddlon]  ...» 

*  •  *  *  •  fftwl  ^esv  yn  felysol    1666  .  #  *  #  * 

15       fanwul  gn'stnogion  o  geisiwch  yn  gyson     ....  0 

mewn  beie   a  briwie   yn   0  brydd  «  *  *    T.  ap  Prichard 

18  *  *  . .  .dd  bynag  i  buch  ddyn  gais  ddilyu  dy  alwcdigaeth  .  .p 
tangnhefedd  ddiiW  a  To  yu  /  n  plith 

i  ladd  pob  rhith  Cynfigen  Rowland  Vychan 

19  Y  gwr  Jfanc  gwilindo  gyngor    ....  q 

•  #  •  •  Cyro  gras  a  mwrthwl  fFtn:  Phylip 

25       Gwrandewch  arnayyri  treythu  baled    ....  r 

gwna  di  gyngor  hittiri  garpioc  „  „ 

29      Pob   gadara  mawr   i   ally  gyn   mynd    or  s 

gyrff  i  bydru     .... 
arneb  ni  fyno  ag  wUys  da  aed  heibio  na 

wrandawed  „  „ 

33      dyma  fyd  gyd  gadarn  &c.  &c.      imperfect  Df  S.  Cent  t 


W.  EHYLIP,  O.  GRIFFITH  AND  OTHEBS.  933 

35      .]f  mae  bai  ar  ev  bowyd     .     ,     .     .  -a 

[dyro  dy  dru]garedd  ini  D'  S.  Cent 

37       gwrandewch  ar  gynglianedd  gerdd  eured  gyf  *  »  *  .  .       li 
denaid  hofF  evraid  a  ffarwel  JV.  Phylip 

40       [gw]a  uad  da  i  enaid  dyn     ....  c 

bodd  duw  cin  yn  bedd  diwedd  doctor  fon  Cent 

43       Y  Hew  glan  ynill  y  glod     ....  d 

i  mine  ai  dymunoedd  Hugh  TLoyd  hynfel 

45       Pan  fych  di  yn  gru  frii  ar  fryn     ....  e 

*  •  *'  »  addas  y  rhydd  addysg  .  16§S  .  Ow:  Griffith 

47       Rhyw  wraig  draw  o  fiorman  dre     ....  f 

er  daued  i  braint  mon  helpii  ?  ffouch  Price 

50      Yn  noeth  im  ganwyd  gwan  a  bychan     ....  g 

er  mwyn  Crht  *dod  im.  gymod  fioxich.  Price 

53      Am  ft  yn  /  rhodio  ar  foreuddudd     ....  h 

kewch  chwithe  newydd  beth  gin  inne  W.  Phylip 

57       fy  ngymdethion  gwryndewch  adrodd[iad]  ....  j 

rhwng  i  wraig  ag  ^fan  kadwalad  Eivan  kaduialader 

60       [Ni]  cheiff  dyn  ronyn  ond  y  rannodd  duw  ....  k 

rag  im  dyniou  ond  enyd  Dd:  ab  Evan  ab  Owen 

63       Wrth  ystyrieth  ystori  /  ybyd  oil  am  by  wyd  i    .    .    .  I 

gwir  ddavvn  a  thrigaredd  dd[uw]  .  W.  Phylip 

67  glasied  rliag  syched  sii  iachaf  diod     ....  in 
[doe]d  iw  gof  beidio  ag  yfed                               „        „ 

68  [dr]wg  dybys  astrus  a  rwystra  ini  gellwair     ....       » 
gymryd  y  byd  fel  y  bo  Anon 

69  gwna  felin  gethrin  gwiw  athro  &e.  o 

b.  gwas  dybryd  esgyd  heb  asgwrn  &c.  p 

c.  J  D'  Bissiart  fychan  ILundan  pan  fu  frad  y  powdwr — 160S  . 

y  ddoetli  Esgob  barfllwyd    ....  q 

*  *  *  gwag  ai  bardwn  gwrtli  .  »  Hughes  o  gefn  TL.  fair 

71       gwrandewch  ar  ddadgiddiad  dau  ef[eill]     ....  r 

pe  medre  fo  ddilin  i  gyngor  i  hyu  .  16§1  .     Edw:  Moris 

77       ]f  mae  ordor  sor  am  serch  ag  anian  .  .  .    Hunfrey  ap  fvan   s 
pan  ddarfii  /r/  anrliaitii  yma        glochydd  IL.  bryn  mair 

86       trafeilies  for  a  mynydd  frefeilies  pant  a  cliraig  ....  t 

derbynied  duff  llowydd  ni  yn  Uawen     .  16^2  .      Hum  Sion 

90  Mar:  Owen  TVynn  or  glyn  .  168-2  . 

diiw  or  auap"  di'wy  wynedd     ....  u 

yn  y  nef  vnion  ofwy  John  Dafydd 

95  /r  beydu :  J  rwi  i  yn  byw  n  anymoredd  v 

miawn  diwres  fyd  oiir     .... 
na  nel  yn  anwbod  °y  niben  Eivan  Sion 

97  fel  hyn'gwael  briddin  gwel  bren[ed]ig[eth]     ...  w 
fellu  aur  dawdd  dy  allor  di                  Ellis  Owens  or  kefn 

b,       gwell  i  wan  traglau  a  fo  yn  triglo  goror  /  y  maengarw  Ac.      x 

98  Rwi  yn  ofni  meddyvi  am  vddynt  o  gwrs  .  .  .    Rob:  ap  Rees  y 
ni  wnawn  er  a  gawu  or  gwaith  TFynn  o  Itianog 


934  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  158. 

6.      Pymtheg  cant  gwarant  oedd  gwirbed  Jessv  .  ,  ,  .  ,  a 

Pan  grynodd  .  .  .  dauar  a  byd  [1574]  .... 
du  bach  ar  ben  erw  ar  fy  helw  fy  liuii  Rich:  Abram 

101       Pob  mab  pob  merch  pob  dyn  ar  aued     ....  6 

[i  fojliaauu  duw  ymaradwys  Anon 

103  Jr  Cyiydd:  Ar  ol  bod  yn  gwario  yn  ffri     .     .     .     ,  e 

gan  bob  gwenno  a  leickio  i  liin 

105  Am  y  dreth  soweth  i  mae  son  ....  trcth  gofys  d 
nid  treth  gyfion  /  ochain  sydd  o  aches  hon. 

106  Mar:  Mrs  Gras  Hvghes  or  kefen 

0  di'iw  dy  nawdd  dod  i  ni    .    ,    .    ,  e 

pura  tasg  an  parato  Ow:  Gryffith 

111  Trwy  /r/  tad  ceidwad  i  fynu  coda  &c.  / 

112  Duw  a  greodd  nef  a  daiiar    .    .    ,    ,  g 

*  •  *  #  gaul  amser  i  gonsidro 

115       Gwrandewch  ymddanion  gynnes     ....  h 

}n  gyrchy  yno  ninaii       .  16§^  ,        Hvnffre  dd;  ap  Jvan 

1 17       Gwelais  eira  glas  irwyn    ....  i 

da  iwr  hawl  a  diiw  ai  rhudd  Edmwnt  Pryce 

121       toriad  gorchyinyn  taerwaitb     ....  k 

a  duw  ini  a  dyn  newydd  Hvnffre  dd:  ap  Eifan 

124  Gwyr  da  ni  wedda  iw  wen  lonyddwuch  ...  / 
Hid  a  bar  ar  led  y  byd                                       Wm:  P  Ay  lip 

125  Tydi  o  ddyn  sydd  gar  fy  Haw    ....  m 
o  flaun  duw  mawr  gogoned                           JI.  IL.  Cynfal 

126  Blwyddyn  i  gerlyn  fongaled  iw  hon    ....  » 

*  #  «  *  *  yn  dy  siad  gad  dy  go 

127  HoU  bobl  y  dernas  neswch  yn  nes  nes    ....  o 
fy  rahechod  fydd  ormod  baych  arnad 

128  Clowch  ddaugos  rhagorieth  rhwng  prinder  a  choweth  .  .  .  p 

«««*«#**  #'**«**i  gredy   . 

133  Ceisiwn  bawb  dwgiwn  bob  digus  bechode    ....  q 
dwst  ydym  di  wastadol  .  l6$§                        Owen  Griffith 

134  *  »  *  roullen  arw  drais  digysur  iw  dy  cais     .,..»' 
Tan  drigaredd  dduw  un  wedd 

yn  reiol  wledd  yr  oun  Hugh  Moris 

137  Mar:  fVm:  fVilliams  ficcar  Bodfari 

fyngwir  Enaid  fy  ngwr  anwyl    ....  * 

duw  an  galwo  dan  ei  ymgeledd  Edw:  Moris 

139  Mewn  Eifiengtid  byd  heb  oedi     ....  t 
gida  duw  fy  ngheidwad  a  fudd                           W.  Phylib 

b.     Hir  heddwch  degwch  diogel  in  Wm:  /  wiwlan  frenin  &c.    u 

140  Pavchwn  iawn  gowfiwn  yn  gu  nid  alaeth  nadolic  ....    v 
bur  in  rhaid  bo  /  r  /  anrhydedd    .  I690  .      Ow:  Griffith 

142  Mor  howddgar  liwgar  olygiad  Pybur    ....  w 
[we]ddau  ith  dy  wiwddoeth  dad  .  169O  .           „        „ 

143  Mar:  S.  Owen  or  Cefn  isa :  O  dduw  pa  gri  difri  don  .  .  .      x 

duw  addas  bo  /n/  diweddiad  .  16§9  March  3      „      „ 

149       vna  weddi  a  clialon  bur    ....  y 

a  thrysawr  yn  y  diwedd  J.  Sjoyd  Pen  anner 


0.  GRIFFITH,  HUGH  MORIS,  W."  PHYLIP  ETC.  935 

150  0  dduw  rwy  fyth  ti'wj  dy  ordinhad  &c.         a  fragment       a 

151  Pob  doethudd  gymdeithion  naturiol  gantorion  ....  6 
ond  prescl)  yn  welu  wann  olud  ||     i.  32. 

153  A  fragment  ending  ;  i  fawl  ai  ogoniant  a  ganwn  Edu>:  Moris  c 

b.      ystidio  ir  wif  was  didwyll  doctor  Sion  hent  d 

156       [y  gwr]   uwch  ben  goruwch  byd     .     ,     .     .   „  „      « 

158  fache  Mair  :  [Yng]wledydd  ^udea  ir  oedd  sacaria    ,     .     .     / 
im  drwy  gariad  drigaredd  .  Amen  JV.  Philip 

160  Provedigaith  1/ 7  Esgobgnachos*    *  ffijdd  Eglwys  Loeger      *^ 
16§S.  [Y]a  heglwys  dan  bwys  duw  /  n  hen  &c.-a  fragment    g 

163  A.fragi  ending  :  bob  dydd  bob  awr  bob  enn[yd]    E.  Moris  fi 

h.  Jr  Angati :  Gwir  gerwin  blin  a  gar  blau     ....  « 

Cyfflypa  ir  casa  i  Gael  Morgan  ap  Hugh  Lewis 

167  Mar:  Owen  Jones  o  Fraych  y  Bib  .  ?  l6go  . 

Duw  pa  loes  di  hap  0  lid     ...    .  k 

ol  yn  ol  ith  lawenydd  Owen  Griffith 

173      O  Arglwydd  hedd  vcheledd  chwiliaist  &c.  II     11.1-95  / 

177  Mar:  Rob:  Ellis :  Ofer  yw  r  byd  waglyd  waith     ...       tn 
ir  hoff  foesol  orflwysfa       .1688.  Ow:  Griffith 

182  Wrth  grafFu  /  n  /  ystyriol  ar  agwedd  gristnogol  &c.  a  fragment  n 

183  O  ddyw  na  bae  fy  mhen  yn  ddyfroedd     ....  o 
i  ddrwg  gyfeddach  anghyfaddas                        Ow;  Griffith 

186  Arglwydd  Jesu  erglyw  ddwysion  &c.     a  fragment  p 

187  II  Bu  ddeuou  tirion  y  tad  pa  #♦*...     .  q 
ai  aur  goron  wir  gariad                                           Ow;  Gr: 

189  Medd-dod:  Gweled  i  rwif  wrth  rodio  /r/  byd     ...  r 

[?  na]  chlod  ychwaith  wrth  farw  Anon 

191       Clywch  ar  dan  clau  achwyn  dig     ....  * 

[yn]  ddilys  deed  dy  ewyllys  di  .  lo^O  .  Dd:  Manuel 

194      ti  siongcyn  dewryn  diwres  y  sy  accw  &c.  * 

196  Mar:  Charles  i:  Och  gred  ag  angred  a  gwyn     ....       u 
ir  rhai  a  ddylon  hir  ddialedd  W.  Phylip 

206       [Ewi  /  n  /]  gweled  er  ei  gwilio  fy  adeilad  yn  ad  feilio  .   .  v 
bod  sail  .  fy  adeilad  yno  i  rwi  /  n  /  dymuno  .  Amen  .  161^8 

211  Mai:  [Gogoniant  moliiint  misoedd]     ....       t^"*-  ^-  w 
\\  Yr  hwsmyn  weithian  codwch     .... 
Amen  ar  foregwaith  Mai  Anon 

216       Gwel  ddyn  yn  dy  fywyd  pwy  bynnag  wyt  hefyd  ....     .^• 
a  dilin  ferch  Seion  is  awyr  moris  Righard 

219  0  dduw  rwy  syth  drwg  dy  ordinhad     ....  y 
bob  dydd  bob  awr  bob  ennyd                             Edw:  Moris 

220  Vna  weddi  a  ehalon  bur     ....  2 
a  thrysawr  yn  y  diwedd                    John  TLoyd  Pen  anner 

221  dydd  da  fo  itti  /r/  hebog  odidog  i  dallt    ....  a 
n  chael  honai  y  gyfle  ni  ddiangc  hi  om  bodd  Edw:  Moris 

224       [H]oll  deulu  gall  dylwyth  cyd  godwch  rhag  adwyth  ...  6 
[J]r  bywyd  gwir  iechyd  goruchel  Ow:  Dwyfor 


936  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   153-154. 

228  Daeth  im  gwydd  arwydd  eira  oer  wenwisg    .     .     .    ,       « 
swyfeu  drist  no  safe  /n/  drws  Owen  Griffith 

229  Mae  ti-wst  a  grwdwst  i  gred  /  ym  mrydain  ....  J 
*  *  •  *  llu  ag  arfau  llonn   ||                                          Anon 

231       Attoch  filoedd  o  anherchion     ....  g 

#  *  #  yn  bendigedig  arglwydd  . 

234       Gwae  fi  gwimbil  a  thimbil  a  tbabwrdd  &c.  ^ 

235-44  Fragments. 

245  Fob  gwr  ifanc  cowir  afiaith  &c.  &c.     m  later  hand  e 


MS.  154  =  Hen,  190,  T  Gododin*  ;  Glossaeies,  Paper; 
8x6^  inches ;  174  pages ;  in  the  autographs  of  the  Eev.  D.  Ellis 
(pp.  1-95),  and  Gr:  Roberts  (105-74);  boards. 

LlyfrGr:  Roberts  o  Ddelgelle^p  yn  cynnwys  y  Gododiu  ac  ainryw  hen  Eiriau 
Cymraeg  au  heglurhad,  1791. 

1    Y  GODODIN — Aneurin  Gwawdrydd  agant. 
{version  a)  Gredyf  gwr  oedd  gwas,  gwhyr  un  d'ias  f 

Meirch  niwth  myngvras  ydan  mordhwyd  mygrwas 
Ysgwyt  yegafn  llydan  ar  bedrein  mein  unam  .... 

(j;emore,i).Greddf  gwr  oedd  gwas  |  Gwhyr  un  dias  g 

March  mwth  myngfras  |  O  dan  morddwyd  mygrwas 
Ysgwyd  ysgafii  lydan  |  Ar  bedrain  main  dinnm  .... 

version  a  Prytuyf  ny  bei  varu  Moryen 

Deheiiec'  Guenabwy  mab  Gwen  , 

version  b  Prydwyf  ni  bei  farw  Mojien 
■     '     'Deheueg  Gwenabwy  fab  Gwen 

This  text  is  in  the  hand  of  the  Rev.  David  Ellis  as  is  also  a  Cwrtmawr  MS. 
Which  of  these  MSS.is.the2  &  3  of  Stephens's  Gododin  (Cymmrodorion  Society) 
is  not  clear.  The  MS.  text  run^  parallel  with  the  printed  text  up  to  page  86 
(= printed  p.  336):  Dj/rllyiei  veSgyrn  un  mab  veruarck  vel  Dyrllyddei  feddgyrn 
un  mab  Jerwarch 

PartIL  Glossaries  in  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Roberts  (p.  163) 
105  Amcan.  a  gwedi  darfod  bwytta  ac  yfed  eu  hamcan     Hist:  Pered: 
Alan.  A  sathr  dynion  nag  Alanod  nis  gweleis  nnmyn 

Gwyddeli  a.  ILysseu.     Hist:  Peredur ends : 

Ysgwydawr,  the  same  as  Ysgwyd.  a  shield. 
133  Clywed  ar,  to  "be  inclined    Ni  chlywir  arnaf  byth  dy  adu 
yny  wypwyf  pwy  fych.    Hist:  Gereini  ....  ends: 
Gorphwys  .  to  rest .  &c.     TL.  Hen. 
140  Adfant .  q.  the  same  as  Difant  a  fading  away  &c. 
148  ^Collectanea  quaedam,  being  an  attempt  to  explain   the  root 
meaning  of  Ha/ren,  Af&n.  At— in  Hoywa/,  aZwen  Al\m,   Alyrj  vel 
£/wy,  a/arch,  "Penna/,  AlchvyA,  e/ban,  flt^',  et>ion,   Gwy,  Gwyaah, 
Hwy&A,  Dyji,  Dysynni  &c.  &g.  by  "  water."  Cf.  a  Plas  Hen  MS. 

156  Yslyr  rhai  geiriati  yn  y  ILyfr  a  elwir  Bbut  y  TrwrsoaioN 
nad  arferir  yn  gyffredinynghymru  yduddheddyw  :  Gwaith,  brwydr, 
battle  .   Myllt— idem  q.  Mellt  .  Lightning  &c. 

162  "  Proofs  of  the  word  Gwy  signifying  water  or  liquid." 

J'or  the  13th  century  original  see  Cardiff  MS.  I, 


PEOVEEBS,  GEAMMAES  ETC.  937 

163  Diodlys  .  q.  an  diod  elusen,  a  cup  of  drink  given  the  poor  at 
funerals  in  some  parts  of  Wales,  it  was  continued  in  Carnavvonsliiro  to 
the  year  1788  and  will  henceforth  I  believe 

164  Welsh  names  of  fishes 

166  JFelsh  names  of  birds  .•  Bod  f  gwerni  =  moor  buzzard  &c, 
ends :  ysgroean  ddu  =  the  black  tern. 


MS.  155  =  Hen.  78.  The  Book  of  Richard  Phylip  of  Picton. 
Proverbs,  xxiv  Camp,  ix-Helwrieth,  y  xxiv  mesureu  kerS,  Eistedvod 
Caerwys,  ye  Lapidary,  Areith,  Proverbial  sayings,  Vocabulary,  Welsh 
prosody,  Cyvrinach  y  Beird:,  Poetry,  &  Pedigrees.  Paper;  7^  X 
5f  inches;  pages  i-vi,  1-302  ;  in  several  hands  ;  sewn. 

Pages  2-169  were  -written  in  1561-2  ;  l?0-220  about  1565  ;  and  225-302  in  the 
xviith  century.     The  signature  of  one  William  Salesbury  {circa  1610)  occurs   on 
page  i.     The  first  part  was   written  from    an  original  in  the  possession  of  Rich: 
Mosfyn,  which  was,  inferentially,  in  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethog. 
i.  Gwav  fi  gwen  heiui  gwn  hynod  /  gas  &c. 
h.  i  hwllis  hwylis  hylaw  &c. 

ii.  dwc  anerch  drwyserch  draw  /  yn  siwr  ir  feinir  &o. 
iii.  A  fragment  in  Latin. 

1  (Papuryn  hSn  bruttanaidd  tirion  Er  hj'u  mae  ynddo  bethau  bryntion 

chwynnwch  achychwnnwoh  or  diwedd  ir  Daioni) 

2  ni  vedro  vyngwellav  yaded  vifal  irwyfnam  beied  nim  gwellao 
Pedigree  :  Mastr  Risiart  ap  to:  /ap  Ris't  ap  ho:  ap  7.  vyohan  &c.  .  1561. 

3  llenwr  llyfr :  Lloegr  drigiant  ddifyrrwch  bryttanaidd  gymro  wedir  gasglv 
ynghyd  o  amravaelion  lyfrav  kymraec  drwy  waith  a  llafor  Gr:  Hiraethoc  ^  goffav 
ae  i  ddwyn  ar  gof  ir  neb  o  genedl  gymry  (a  vo  allau  oi  wlad)  ^aith  i  gnowdol  fam 
J  hvnan  ai  nattvriawl  ddayaren  o  anedigaeth 

Risiart        /         Hickard  Moslyn        /        moston 
Einioes  teiroes  katerwen    Ac  vrddas  ym  rragor  ddyn 
At  y  ineistr  Risiart  mostYn  J  Rroer  y  kymraeglyfr  hwn 
6.  Tabl  ir  holl  lyfr 

4  At  vchelder  diledriw  voneddigeiddrwydd  bryttanaidd  Master 

Jiissiart    Mosfyn    Gruffyth    hiraethoc  yn    damvito   ei- 

ddvno  ac  ewyllissio  hir  hoedl  ac  vrddas  drwy  ddidranh 

lawenydd   wrth   gwbl  fodlonrwydd    i   galvn 

Och  duw  raor  angharedic  ac  mor  ann/naturiawl  vydd  llawer  o  genedl  gymry  Ae 
yn  enwedic  y  Rhain  a  elont  allan  o  dervynav  7  •  •  ■  •  gwlad  .  .  .  .  ac  yn  gillwug 
dros  gof  Jaith  .  .  .  i  vam  ....  Rhac  hynny .  .  vv  achos  a  wnaeth  ym  veddwl  am 
danoch  ac  ysgryvennv  y  llyfr  hwnn  i  ddifyrrv  y  dydd  &c. 

7  At  y  darlleydd :  Ydolwc  ac  erfyn  ddarlleydd  boneddigaidd  He  gwelcr  y  llyfr 

hwnn  yn  anghwbl  ddyffygol  o  resswm,  gair  &o  .  .  .  7  wellhav kyd  bai 

weddvs  y  rayvi  edrych  am  voddlowni  perchennawc  y  llyfr  eb  neb  amgenach 

Atteb  trossof  yn  vy  absen  a  chadw  fy  llavvr  yn  ddigabyl  ....  A  duw  a  vo  ith 
gadw  /  Amen  /  K.  M. 

10  Tabyl  ir  llyfr  hwn  7  gael  pob  peth  sydd  ynto  &c. 

armed  perchen 
Oedran  krist  pann     T)    O*     awe  y  llyfr  hwnn 
ar  dduw  klanmai        XX,   1         M  ccccc  xxa;v 
ymhictwnn 
12  Mabiaith   hengrys   o   Jal  .  .  a  elwid  Bach  byddygre  a  Cato  gyvarwydd  a 
gwyddvarch  gyvarwydd  &o.  G.  H. 

*  E.  P.  are  evidently  the  initials  of  Richard  Phylip,  the  third  son  of  Mr.  John 
Phylip,  the  son  of  Syr  Thomas  Phylip  of  Pict<m  in  Pembrokeshire.  Compare 
Pen.  MS.  176  p.  397,  where  it  is  said  that  Mr.  J.  Ph.  died  dvw  7ev  yn  ol  gwyl 
vevgan  [?  1553]. 

y  98480.  S  S 


938  PENURTH  MANUSCRli'T  166. 

13  Proverbs,  Abyl  "^  bob  peth  a  bodlono 

Abyl  ]f  bawb  'j  gydiadd ends  : 

yhjs  i  dengjrs  pob  dyn  o  ba  rudd  /i  bo  i  wreidJyn 
58    y  XXIV    hamp:  Amrafaelion  lywenydd  a   ytocdd  gyut  ymhlith 
kenedl  gymrv  pann  oeddynt  a  bryttaniaith  natiliiawl  davodav  =f  ganedic 

wladyn  ddl  gymysc  gantvnt ends:  arpedwar  defnydd  sydd 

y nabob  dyn  ac  wely  dynar  achos. 

61  Y IX  helwriaeth  y  Rrain  a  ddyly  pob  dyii  ev  gwybod  ar  a  vodro 
kanv  korn ends  :  y  neb  bieiffo  y  kwn  segvr  biav 

67  V  tri  pheth  a  bair  ir  hvaid  Galyn  yn  well  y  kanv  noc  anifail 
arall  or  byd  .  ,  .  chwys  ....  Ewyn  gwyn  ....  Ewyn  a  givaed. 

68  V  XXIV  mesvr  herdd  davod  nid  amgen  4  kywydd  a  5  Englyn  a 
/  XX  j  0  vessurav  odlav  o  iiij  messvr  kywydd fvn  ydiw  kyvvydd  dav  air 
rjrioii  val  h3n  /  J  mae  J  mi  Jon  yw  Enwi 

viij  Sillaf  oil  iii]  ymhob  rrann  : ends  : 

Tawddgyrch  kadwynoc :  Adkas  doddiaut  oed  kystuddiav 

OS  dyn  biav  ysdyn  bywiad  Also  Pen.  MS.  147  p.  207 

76  XXI V  messvr  herdd  dant  hrwth  :  Alvarch  )  |  1 1  (  (  |  00000000  Ac- 

77  Rrol  vessvrav  Telynnior  yw  honn.  kor  alvn  &c. 

79  ILyfr  kadwedigaeth  herdd  dannav  nid  amgen  Telynnav  a 
chrythav  o  vewn  tair  talaith  gymry  y  Rhain  a  dynnwyd  allan  or  myssio 

drwy  ddeall  a  dychymic  doctor  or  gelvyddyd  &c ends  :  A  phwy 

bynnac  a  wypo  hynn  yn  ddigon  myvyr  ni  phalla  oi  gelvyddyd  vn  amser 
nao  o  atteb  drosti  yn  gyfreithlon  ae  velly  J  tervynay  dosparth  . .  /  Haw  / 
a  throed  /  A  chlvst  /  ky varwyddyd  kerdd  dant 

83  honifyrmiad  a  wnaethpwyd  ar  y status  gr:  ap  hynan  yn  yr  eistedd- 
vod  ynghaerwys ;  Bid  ysbys  J  bawb  o  voneddigion  a  chyffredin  vod 
eisteddvod  ar  wyr  wrth  gerdd  tavod  a  thant  o  vewn  tref  gaerwys  .  .  .  yr 
ail  dydd  o  vis  gorffeuaf  yn  y  xv  .  .  .  o  goronedigaeth  Harri  viii  Gar 
bron  Risiart  ap  Ho:  ap  yeuan  vychan  ysguier  ac  o  gytvndeb  syr  W.  gr;  a 
S''  Roger  Salbri  a  thrwy  bressenol  gyngor  gr:  ap  Yeuan  ap  Ita  vychan 
a  thudur  aled  bardd  kadeiriawc  a  llawer  o  voneddigion  adoethion  eraill  / 
Er  gwnevtbvr  ordyr  a  Uywodraetb  ar  wyr  wrth  gerdd  ac  ar  i  kelvydd- 
yd  .  .  ^  gadarnhav  a  chonfEyrmio  y  penn  kerddiaid  ar  sawl  a  gafas 
gradd  yn  y  blaen  /  J  Raddio  y  sawl  ai  haeddai  ac  ^f  roddi  i  eraill  ysbas 
I  ddysgv  /  ac  i  vevyrrio  yn  nessaf  ac  if  galler  wrth  gydwybod  ac  wrth 

hen  yatatus  gr:  ap  kynan ends :  Ac  J  bob  athro  bod  kopi  or 

ordyr  honn  gidac  e£  iwdangos  iwddisgyblion  ac  ivv  chofiav  pann  ddel  ont 
]f  gymeryd  if  dysc  y  grawys 

90  TLyma  val  J  nodwyd  wrth  ystatus  Gr:  ap  h.  Roddion  J  bob 
gradd  yni  radd  0  gerdd  tavod:  Tair  gwyl  ar  bennic  y   sydd  .  .  pasc  / 

ynydolic/  A  Svlgwyn/ ends :  G-wedi  kael  i  graddav  or  blaen 

mewQ  Eisteddfodav  nev  neithior  Reiol 

ILyma  y  Brai  a  Raddwyd  yngharwys  .  .  Tudr  Aled  a  ganhiadwyd 
ac  a  gonffyrinied  yn  athro  kadeirioc  ^  arwain  ariandlws  val  ir  oedd 
Er  pann  J  kymerassai  dan  J  berigl  iw  dwyn  or  lie  iroedd.  Dai  nan 
klyn  .  .  yn  athro  /  Edw:  sirk/  Tho:  amhadoc/  Edn:  grythor  /  a  Morys 
llanvair  a  raddiessid  or  blaen  mewn  neithiorav  Reiol  yn  benkerddiaid 
ac  yno  ]f  sikrawyd  drwy  ^  kauhiadv  ai  koniFyrinio  .  Hwlkyn  llwyd  / 
J.  delynior/  ]f.  grythor  /  dai  maessmor  disgyblionn  pen  k.  //  Hvw  menav  / 
Rys  grythor/  Bill  ap  Owain/  a  sion  ap  sander  disg'»  disgyblaidd. 
Ond  hynny  gwrthod  i  graddio  a  wnaethant 

95  Y  lapidari  .  .  .  sydd  yn  traethv  o  rinweddav  scxxvj  o  amraf- 
aelion vain  gwrthfawr  o  ami  dernassoedd:  Yr  ydys  yn  darilaJn mewn 


THE  BOOK  OF  E.  PHYLIP  OF  PICTON.  939 

llyfrav  mae  Onax  brenhin  yr  abia  a  ddanvones  Uyi'r  J  inrw  nniherodr 
rrvfain  .  .  .  .  yn  dangos   kryfdwr  a  Rrinweddav  yr  xxxvi  o  vain  &c. 

ends  :   Edir  twngs  y  sydd   o  amrafael   liwiav  a  thebic  vydd  J 

llvn  J  davod  .  .  .  rinwedd  y  maen  liwnn  a  geidw  dyn  Rac  gwenwyn 
0  bydd  y  maen  gidac  ef  .  .  .  .  ar  maen  a  gair  mewn  .  .  .  swnd  y  ar 
y  grayael  sydd  yrarytaen  vawr  . 

117  Araith  Gr:  ap  yeuan  ap  Un  vychan  J  geisio  saer  :  Vymddirieid 
gwbl  gydymddaith  ymgeleddgar  vynirfawr  orchymvn  o  dwymyneidd- 
rwydd  meddylvryd  kalou/yn  garedigawl  attoch  megis  yr  ymddail 
fiyddfrawd  o  Eitbafbell  garedigrwydd  ....  waethwaeth  saerniaeth 
newydd  /  ar  naddfain     .... 

y  saer  o  lann  sain  sior  Iwyd  ....',  ends: 

am  ddrvd  gost  vym  ddiried  gwbl 

120  Dewis  bethav  davydd  mevent/dd :  Boreigwaith  tawel  glayar  &c. 

121  Kas  hethav  ywain  hyfeilioc :  Krynn  was  heb  gamp  /  krya 
vai'ch  heb  Rygyag  /  krynn  avon  heb  pont  &c. 

122  kynghorav  taliessyn :  Nac  ymddiried  ir  neb  ath  vygythio 

Na  chais  groessaw  dann  wc  &c. 

123  Ni  wyr  ni  wyl  /  ni  wyl  ni  ddysc  &c. 

h       A  garo  gael  kyngor  govynned  ir  doethaf  &c. 

124  y  xxiv  Gwell :  Gwell  yw  gwr  oi  bercLi  .  .  G.  yw  duw  no  dim. 

125  Gorav  hethav  laliessia.   Gorav  vn  bwyd  bara  ....  ends  ; 

Gorav  gwaith  vn  dyn  gwarchadw  ty  yn  ddiwyd  . 

127   Geiriav  gwir  taliessin  ai  gyngor  ai  gvssvl  : 

Ymovyn  a  doeth  /  Tewi  wrth  ynvyd     .... 

ni  does  air  gwir  heb  voliant  ir  drindod     .... 

knawd  i  hael  gael  a  drevlio     .... 

Ni  ddigia  r  drindod  er  erchi  kyfiownder     ,     .     ,     . 

nid  dim  heb  dduw  . 
130   Ymadrawdd  selyf  ddoeth 

Ni  thai  dim  y  lie  nid  ymddywynyko  ynto  rvw  grynodeb  .  . 

ni  thai  dim  dim  heb  dduw 
1 32  Kas  dynniou  Selyf  ddoetli 

Dyn  ni  wypo  da  ac  nis  dysgo     .... 

Dyn  a  ysgevlvsso  duw  a  dyn 
134  Kyffes :  krair  kred  ked  kynydd  &c.  folo  goch 

142       Mis  Jonor  myglyd  dyffrynn     .... 

A  ddervydd  y  nydd  a  nos  Aneryn  gwawdrvdd 

a  gant  englyanion  y  missoedd  gyntaf  .  .  ni  vedryd  kael  y  xii  .  .  ym  howys 
a  gwynedd  eb  vod  iiij  ar  goll  a  Gytlvn  Owain  a  wuaeth  y  iiij  olaf  .  .  wedy  hynny 
kad  ynehevbarth  y  iiii  oedd  ar  goll  : 

Mis  menni  myunawc  planed     .     .     .     ► 

gwell  duw  noi  ddrwc  ddarogan 
148  Gorchestion  D.  nanmor :  yn  dyrchaf  yn  anavacl 

yn  iFo  yn  kilio  yn  kael  &c.  &c. 

152  lias  hethav  Gimjr  Bhyfam :  Brenhin  heb  ddoethineb  &c. 
b       Aeth  hiraeth  Rhwug  bronn  a  thoryn     .... 

Trwy  nerth  sain  katrin  ail  terfyn  enylyn^  a  elwir  yn  ostec 

153  Owdl  ar  vessvr  gorchest  y  brirdd  gan  D.  ap  femwnt 

Ail  vn  wyl  wedd/  yw  bvu  iw  beJd     .... 
]f  glai  a  glyn  .  .  .  .  y  ddai  y  ddyn  /  }  dduw  ddaetti 
156    Vocabidary :  Darllain    heb    ddeall    overedd    yw    ac    velly   yn 
gymaint  a  bod  geiriav  o  hen  gymraec  yn  y  UyiV  hwnn  arveredic  gynt 

S  S  2 


940  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT  155. 

ac  ni  wys  beth  yut  yn  gyffredinol  yn  y  to  heddyw  ac  am  hyany  ef 
hawshav  deall  y  darlleydd  J  dodais  i  hyd  J  doeth  im  kof  bob  gair  o  hen 
gymbraec  ar  sydd  yn  y  llyfr  hwn  ar  ol  ordyr  yr  egwyddoi'  &c. 

Abwy  =  bvrgin  j  Acblan  =  J  gyd j  A  adnav  =  Perchenogi 
Adwynnyc  =  a  ytnddengys  j  Addas  =  perlhynassol ....  ends  ; 
ymgnogiaid  =  /  ymoleithio  =  dywedyd  yn  dec 

ymogor  =  annedd  ne  gyvannedd  /  ymynbedd  =  Taer  ymbil 
oed  hist  pawn  wnaed  y  llyfr  humn  1562 


Pages  170-220,  which  follow  here,  are  iu  the  same  hand  as  the  Book  of  the  Vicar 
of  Woking  (1565)  in  the  Cardiff  Free  Library, 

170  Dysc  i  gael  prifiav,  hyd  y  missoedd,  amser  kaeth  priodi  &c. 
kais  gyfrif  dy  brif  heb  fod  breg  /  oi'  byd  &e. 
n  /  e  /  byth  /  ara  y  bydd 

176.  Dosbarth  Iterdd  Dafod :  Tair  dipton  gymysg  y  sydd  &c. 
being  au  enumeration  of  the  headings  of  Welsh  grammar,  except  in 
case  of  the  metres  which  are  illustrated  by  the  usual  examples,  whicli 
end  thus : — 

aryf  gwyr  /  gwyr  gway  w  rvdd  ar  ail  milwyr 

eiriav  niyfyr  eryr  Rysswyr  Rys  ah  gruffvdd 

196  ILyma  cyfrinacb  beirdv  ynys  brydain  a  elwir  y 
D  wne  d  yn  gymraeg  wedi  i  droi  or  lladin  :  Pa  sawl  rann  ymadrodd 

ysydd  /  wyth  /  pa  wyth  Henw  Eaghenw ends  :    Tri  ffeth  a 

Oilamwynia  i  gyssylldiad  meddiant  fFvgr  ag  vrddas  /pvm  rryw  allv  sydd 
j  gyssylldiad  /  kanis  Rai  or  kyssylldiadav  sydd  gyssylldedig 
Och  gwae  fi  Rai  a  arwyddockant  ryfeddv  &o. 

211  Wyf  fardd  o  farddawd/wyf  dda  o  ddraethawd 
bid  well  ych  bvchedd  /  bid  llai  ych  pechawd  &c. 

212  Anwyl  gen  bawb  i  wenith     .... 

rrodiad  bid  geiliog  Redyn  sir  D.  trefor 

215  Ma?':  Harrivii:  0  rroed  dayar  ar  harri     .... 

bari  sydd  hiroes  iddo  „        „ 

218       Herwydd  adail  hardd  ydwyd     .... 

ai  pwyth  o  fawl  poed  poeth  fon  gr:  ap  D.  ap  ho: 


225  Tyndaythwy  :  Pedigrees  of  the  Biilkeleys,  (230)  Rye:  White, 
(231)  W.  gr:  /  (232)  W.  Hampton,  (233)  Roland  bulkeley  of  Cremlyn, 
(234)  Rye:  Owen  Theodor,  and  (236)  Rye:  ap  Roland  Wynn. 

246  Menay  :  Pedigrees  of  ILywarch  ap  Brann,  (247)  D.  ap  Ho: 
vyoban,  (248)  Roland  Gr:  of  Plasnewyth,  (252)  Mred:  ap  Thomas  of 
Porthaml,  (255)  gim  gr:  of  Treb[o]rthin ;  (257)  Roland  ap  Mred:  of 
Bodower,  (259)  Rytherch  ap  Rye:  ap  Rhythercli  oi  Mevyrion,  (261) 
Rys  ap  Owayn  ap  Meurik,  (263)  Owein  Holland,  (265)  O.  woodde  of 
Hendregadog,  (267)  Rys  wyn  of  Mosoglyn,  269,  Hugh  bughs 

289  Malltraeth  :  [ein]ghan  ap  Gwalchmai  /  290,  Hwfa  ap 
kynddelw  /  291,  Hq  ap  hwlkyn  ap  ho  :  /  292,  0.  ap  meurick  of  Bodeon  / 
295,  John  ap  meurik  ap  Rn/  296,  Rob:  Owen  of  Tre  yr  gof/  297,  Gr: 
ap  ho:  madoo  /  299,  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  ap  Jin  raoy  /  301,  Rye;  ap  Rye:  ap 
meurik  of  Bodgorgen  {Compare  Pen.  MS.  134,  p.  211)  . 

Blank  221-4,  235,  237-45,  254,  256,  258,  260,  262,  264,  266,  268, 
270-88,  294,  298,  302,  and  23  folios  at  end. 


KYVEINACH  Y  BEIEDD  ETC.  941 

MS.  156  (formerly  23).  Pjedigkbes  of  the  "Gentry"  of  tlio 
Counties  ot  Cardigan,  Carmarthen,  and  Pembroke.  Paper ;  8  X  6S 
inches  and  under;  pages  1-40,  1-62;  and  1-40,  with  later  additions  at 
beginning  and  end  ;   18th  century  ;  bound  in  stamped  leather. 

This  MS.  which  is  all  in  English,  belonged  in  1800  to  the  Rev.  Richard  Fenton 
of  Jushguard,  whose  hook-plate  is  inside  the  front  cover. 

Cardiganshire  Gogerddan  p.  1,  Trawsgoed  2,  ILanllfir  3,  Glanfred, 
Strata  Florida  4  Maes  y  felyn  5,  TL.  fair  Gledogau,  Aber  nant  bychan, 
&  Coedmor  7,  Neuadd  alias  Drefawr,  Tregibbi  &  Priory  in  Cardigan  8, 
Carrog,  Gilvachwcn  &  Cilgwyn  9,  Bronhydden,    Hafod   Uchtryd   11 

Y  Faerdref,  F6s  Helig  12,  Gernos,  Dyftryn  ILynod  13,  Crynfryn  14^ 
Mynydd  Hwe],  ILwyd-Jack  15,  Cwm  awen  &  Glas  grig  16,  Penbryn  & 
Towyn  17,  Khos  Cellan  18,  Pant  yr  Odyn,  Bronwydd  19,  ILanfechan, 
Fos  y  Bleiddied  20,  Ehiw  Arthen  21,  Glan  leri  22,  Ciygbychan  23, 
Gwastad  Gwrda,  ILwyn  Dafydd,  Gelly  Fraith  24,  Nant-Du,  ILwyn 
Dyrys  25,  Ehandir,  Dinas  Cerdin  &  Blaen  Cerdin  26,  Y  Fael  Allt 

Y  Wern  Newydd  27,  Uwch  Aeron  28,  Tal  y  Sarn,  Dol-Wlph,  Peter 
wel  29,  Moel  Ifor  30,  Nant  Eos  &  l^strad  Teilo,  ILechwedd  Dyrys  30'', 
Mynachdy  &  Cilfforch,  Cwrt  Newydd  31,  E,wyn  Cadfor,  ILamborth  tie 
ILanborth  ne  ILongborth  32,  Pant  Streimon,  Bwlch  Bychan  34,  Gallt 
yr  Odyn  &  Castell  Hwel,  IFos  Esgob  35,  Yr  Henbaut,  Camnaut  36, 
Bwlchmawr  &  Cwm  meudwy,  Pant  yrlys  37,  Tywyn  &  Morfa  bychan  38, 
Oryg  bychan  39 

Carmarthenshire.  Golden  Grove  p.  1,  Trefenty  3,  Derwydd, 
Laugharn  4,  Aberraarles,  Newton  or  Dinefor  6,  Khyd  Odyn  8, 
Yfitradeu  9,  Coed  y  Garth,  Abergorlech  10,  Hawksbrooke,  Rh)>d  y 
gors  11,  Upper  Pen  y  Bank,  IL.  stephan  12,  Cilsant  13,  Taliarus, 
Ty  ar  y  Coed  14,  Glan  Brane  (with  a  reference  to  Caermathrin  now 
called  Brecknock)  15,  Dan  yr  allt  16,  ILanelli  17,  Porthwied  or 
Berllan  dywill,  ILechdwnni  18,  Tregybbe,  Penbre  19,  Plas  Gwyn, 
TL.  llawddog  20,  Gwempa  21,  Trwmsaran  22,  Doleu  Cothi  23, 
Derllysg,  Beavely  or  Abercyfor  26,  'Pauley  28,  ILanwrda  29,  Meidrim 
or  Pant  y  Wenallt  30,  Abercothi  31,  ILetherllesty,  Beltws  32, 
Cynghordy,  Gelly  Gadrog  33,  Piodeu  34,  Tawleu  or  Tyleu  35, 
Penllwyn  gwyn  35,  Coedgaing  in  IL.  gynnwr,  Ystrad  Wallter  36,  Cwrt 
Henry,  ILetty  Gariad  37,  Gwern  y  maccwy,  Gelli  Dywill,  Iscoed  38, 
liower  Pen  y  bank,  ILys  Newydd  39,  Ystrad  wrallt,  Yr  wyth  fawr  40, 
Tref  Ynys,  Pantgilgane,  The  Furnace  41,  Carmarthen  &  Havodwen, 
Glaes-Allt  42,  Carmarthen  &  Castell  Pigyn  43,  Carmarthen  & 
Abergwili  44,  ILanarth  Bledri  45,  The  Frood  46,  Aberdiiar,  ILvvyn  y 
fedw,  ILwyn  Evan  47,  ILansefyn,  Pengwern  in  Cennarth  48,  Bryn 
Havod  &  Green  Meadow  49,  Pant  yr  Hebog  IL.  Deilo  fawr,  The  Sick, 
Cedweli,  Cwrt  Eidiyn  50,  Peebwr  51,  Cefen  Drysgoed,  Dol  Haidd  52, 
Cilmaenllwyd,  Castell  llwyd  53,  Pendyne  54,  IL.  Stephan  Towne,  the 
Lakes,  Glandyweli,  Myddfei  55,  Pentre  in  IL.  gathen,  Clynfyw  56, 
Hounds  brooke,  ILwyn  y  Fedw,  Coed  Wogau  57,  Tref  Moeled,  Penhill, 
Clygyn  58,  IL.  gennych,  Cilgynfydd  59,  ILwyn  y  ffortun,  Gorliwyn  60, 
Pant  Hwel,  Cilgwyn  in  Myddfei,  ILan  arthneu  61,  Foes  las,  ILan-non, 
Pen  y  coed  62. 

Pembrokeshire.  Stone  Hall,  Nevern,  Nash  1  &  20,  Pont  Cynon  2, 
Glan-duad,  Glan-duan  3,  Seltyham,  Clyn-fyw  4,  Boulton  bill,  IL. 
gwaren  5,  Neeston  6,  Court,  Crab-hole  &  Tenbigh  7,  Martell,  Penualit 
y  ILyn  in  Clydeii  8,  Dydwal,  Westfield,  Tregamon  9,  Lud-clmrch, 
Grove  &  Morfil,  Roblinston  &  Wooldale  11,  Prichardston,  Henllan  12, 
St.  Dogmaels  13,  IL.  Stinan,  Tregwyn  14,  Milineu,  Pen  y  benglog  15, 
Park  y  Prat,  Trefigyn,  Cauldey  Island  16,  Brodey,  Filbedge  17, 
Tre-fach,  Cryswil  18,  Tre  r  Cwn  19,  Pentre  Evan  20,  Richardstoa  & 


942  PEjrURTH  MANUSCRIPTS  156-158. 

Shotborough,  Moate  21,  Cilgetty  &  Haverford  West,  Pentre  or  Penty 
pare  23,  St.  Brides  24,  Harold  Stone,  Carew  Castle  26,  Coed  Gant 
Lais  20,  Tre  r  Garn,  Green  hill  27,  Cwm  Gloyn,  Narberth  &  Eare- 
were  28,  Bonvils  Court,  Pater  or  Patriclc  church  29,  Trewern, 
Henllys  30,  Boulston  31,  Trellwyn  32,  Cwm  gloyn  33,  Pant  y  Deri, 
Upton  34,  Slebidge,  ILwyn  gwayr  35,  Monckton  or  Cydawc,  Cum-  or 
Hum-phreyston  36,  Domple  Dale,  Berllan  37,  Pencelli  fach,  Tre 
defaid  38,  Castell  Gwys  or  Wiston  39,  Orielton  41. 


MS.  157  (formerly  32).  A  Welsh  Gbammar,  partly  a  selection 
from  '  Dosbarth  Edern  dafod  aiir '  and  '  Pymp  llyvyr  kerddwriaeth ' 
and  partly  a  condensation  of  the  two  texts,  with  paradigms  of  the  verbs 
Itaru  &  Bod  in  all  their  moods  and  tenses.  Paper;  6|  X  6|  inches; 
132  pages,  written,  as  it  would  appear  (p.  112)  by  Thomas  Evans*  of 
Hendre  Vorvyfl  in  or  before  1624;  bound  in  leather. 

Llyfr  Thomas  ap  Jvan  o  hendre  forfydd  (p.  5).  Thomas  ap  7'''"'  ^P  ''o"  "P 
Eobt  ap  madog  ap  sienkin  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  (p.  6]).  Yr  28  dydd  o  Ebrill  y  bv 
fnrw  Rys  ap  Jvau  oed  krist  /  1630  /  .  .  .  .  ag  a  gladdwyd  tranoeth  ymynwent 
lansanffraid  ynglyn  dowrdwy  (p.  2). 

1  Hetiwav  prydyddion :  Kasnodyn  fiirdd  ....  trahaearn 
5  JLyma   ddosharth   Edern   dafod    aiir  :    Edyrn   oi   gymenddoeth 
Ethrylithr  ac  avrvtdrwydd  i  davod  ai  alhrawaeth  i  livn  a  roddes  Aw- 
diirdod  i  bob  tafod  a   vai  athrawaeth   arnaw   i  ossod  dosbarth  ar  y 

llythrennavf  &c ends :   Tri   phcth   a   berthyn   ar  synnwyr : 

amlwhau  dealt  /  byr/iav  yr  ymadrodd  j  a  chadarnkav  kerddwriaeth. 


MS.  158  =  Hen.  212,  The  substance  of  the  Gkamhars  of  Edeyrn 
Davod  Aur,  Einon  yffeirad,  Dwned  John  Brwynog,  Statute  of  Gr;  ap 
kynan  etc.  by  Robert  ap  Jvan  of  Bryn  Sienkin,  Inoektures,  Poetry, 
Eecipes,  Arithmetical  Conundrums,  Rules  for  Playing  Cards  and 
GwEHELAETHAV.  Paper ;  about  8x6  inches ;  240  pages  and  some 
blank  leaves  at  beginning  and  end  ;  all  before  1600  ;  sewn,  in  limp  old 
vellum  covers. 

The  Booh  of  Robert  ap  Jfan  (pp.  1-92)  was  begun  about  May  6th  1587  aud 
ended  on  the  23nd  (pp.  ."iO,  57,  69,  72,  and  89).  It  is  not  a  full  trapscript  of  the 
old  Welsh  Grammars,  but  rather  the  substance  of  them  ".kanys  ni  dderfyddav 
vserifeuv  uior  kwbl  ai   perthynasav  hwy  eithr  os  daw  dyn  raeddylgar  i  gael  peun  y 

ffordd  ef  a  feidr  i   dilyn  Rag  ddo  (p.  20) nid  yw  hyn  asgvifenwyd  ond  y 

grieiav  sydd  yn  myued  ir  llcftydd  (p.  30)  .  .  .  .  x.xii  o  fis  mai  .  .  .  i  tertynis  i 
hwnt>«t<.yAraan(p.  89)  .  .  .  Robert  ap  ifau  prydydd  ag  vwchchTi-  .  .  ef  piav 
brvn  sienkin  yu  Rer  beirdd  plwy  Llanidan  kymwd  mena:  yu  sir  fon  ap  W.  ap  liau  ap 
er  •  &c.,  0  bowys  a  chydewen  (pp.  30  and  89)  ...  .  mam  Rob:  ap  .fan  oedd  marged 

yx  hvw  np  Rys  o  fys  pglen  ap  ho'l  o  fj'dowyr  &e y  ffordd  i  doeth  ifan  ap  W. 

tad  Rob:  yn  berehenog  tir  yu  sir  fon  &c.  (p.  90-1).  This  part  forms  one  of  the 
very  few  MSS.  written  in  Anglesey,  and  its  orthography  is  decidedly  interesting. 

I'ao-es  97-240  or  the  greater  part  of  them,  are  apparently  m  the  hand  ot  John 
Tones" of  Gelli  Lyvdy,  and  were  written  about  lhS9  (p.  216).  This  early  date  may 
account  for  the  various  style,  and  somewhat  loose  form  of  the  writing  in  corapanson 
with  his  Inter  penmauship.  That  he  wrote,  for  instance,  the  firs  hue  of  page  217  s 
certain,  and  we  find  the  signature  "John  Johnes"  twice  on  p.  184.    The  strongly 

*  Cd  Ten.  MSS.  169  (p.  163),  aud  173  ;  also  Mostyn  MS.  135. 

t  There  is  no  reference  to  "  arch  a  damuniad  y  tri  Arglwydd  Penrhaith  contained 
ja  the  Llandovery  edition  (p.  xvii), 


ROBERT  AP  JvAN'S  GRAMMAR  ETC.  943 

^nti-pj-otestant  poetry  signed  Richard  White*  is  probably  his  own,  as  well  as  the 
anouymoiis  pieces.     Compare  the  Roman  Catholic  anonymous  poetry  in  Mostyn 

iVLo,  koot 

1   Mar:  Jfiliam  tomas  o  gnrnarfon         .  15§6  . 
Dvw  dy  ras  dowod  irav     .... 
ar  Haw  ieav  rail  oesedd  Robert  ifan 

4  Y  talbierdd  ychod  a  fydd  raid  i  cliawarav  a  breniii  yn  y  cauol  &c. 

There  is  a  sketch  of  a  chequered-hoard  divided  into  110  squares  in  5  white 
columns  and  5  shaded  columns  of  11  squares  each. 

5  ILyma  y  llyfr  a  ehvir  llyfr  herddwriaeth  ng  ynddo  ef  i  kyn  hwysir 
yr  holl  lyfrav  kerddwriaeth  .tg  a  dduchrevir  ar  ddosbarth  y  llythyrenav 

anacth  Edern  dafod  avr ar  edern  hyn  ef  o  y  wlasdrania  a  fv 

anddosbarthwyr  iniawn  ar  yr  holl  lythyrenav  yn  iaith  gambeiaeg  ag  oi 
kymeti  ythrylith  rinwedd  yr  ysbryd  glaa  a  hvawdolder  athraweth  a 
gymrasant  awdvrdod  i  tafodav  i  hvnaiu  &c. 

Tair  llythyren  ar  bymtheg  y  sydd  raewn  iaith  gymraeg  heb  yr  arwydd- 
ion  kynilliedig  y  kyfion  lythyrav  yw  yr  hai  hyn  a  b  g   d  &c. 

0  Dechravy  llijfr  sill  dafon :  pa  sawl  sillaf  y  sydd  tair  .  .  talgron 
ileddf  a  dipton     Rai  a  fydd  drymion  Ac. 

16  Dechruv  y  llyfr  kangan  heddion :  gan  hyny  pa  beth  yw 
kangbanedd  kynghanedd  yw  mvdr  affrydiad  .sef  yAyw  kyfion  gyfan 
soddiad  o  ymadroddion  kyssylldiedig  o  eiriav  ar  dderchawg  &c. 

21  Dechruv  y  llyfr  mesvrav :  sef  ynt  tair  Ran  o  fesvrav  sydd  .  .  eng- 
lynion  /  kywyddav  //  ag  odlav  ag  o  hyny  pvm  mesvr  englyn  &c. 

31  Vma  y  doedir  am  berth  y  nasav  herdd  dafaiod  ...  Pa  sawl 
peth  a  berthyn  ar  bennill  o  gowydd  devair  hirion  /  35  path  ag  or  hai 

hyny  y  mae  igen  kynwysedig  a  lo  gocheledig  Ac (p.  32) 

bellach  i  doedion  am  y  beiav  hyfiredin  fal  i  maen  yu  porthynv  bob  vn 
yn  ol  i  henw  ai  keinkiav  &c.  .  .  .  (p.  34)  tair  haink  Jterdd  dafod  y 

sydd  .  .  .    klerwr     tylevwr     a  fPrydydd ni  fferthyn  i  brydydd 

ymyrv   a  swydd  klerwr  &c [mae]    llyfr  ysdatyd  .  .    yn   Ranv 

y  llyfr  hwn  yn  bvin  Ran  wrth  son  am  y  pvm  gradd  ysydd  ynthaw  ag 
am  hyny  y  peidir  yma  ai  ranv  (p.  35). 

35   Trioedd  kerdd  .  .  .  ,  tri  Ryw  englyn  da  y  sydd  &c. 

40  Pryd  lyfr:  Raid  yw  bellach  wybod  para  fiyrf  i  molir pob peth  ar 
y  mynir  kanv  iddaw  /  dav  beth  i  dylid  kanv  iddaw  ....  ysbrydol  .  .  , 

a  chorfforol  &c ends :  krefyddwraig   a  folir  o  santeiddrwydd  a 

diweirdeb  glendyd  bychedda  ag  o  bethav  eraill  dwyfawlion  megis  i 
molir  krefyddwr 

ft  fal  ]\yn  i  terfj'iia  y  llyfr  her[dd'\wriaeth  ner  pryd  lyfr  yr  hwn  a  n.ieth 
eiiiioH  yffe.iriad  oi  ardderchawg  y wenyddiaeth  i  rys  ap  gryffvdd  ap  ho'l  iip  gryfp  ap 
ednyfed  vychan  o  fon  a  bryn  ftanigl  yn  sir  ddinbych  .  .  rys  ap  gr:  oedd  dad  syr 
gr;  ilwyd  o  dregarnedd  ymon  a  thad  syr  rys  hen  .  .  .  amser  Kdw:  iii . 

43  Bellach  i  dylid  son  am  ddwned  .  .  a  elwir  wyth  ran  yniadrodd 
ag  yn  amser  yr   hen    brydyddion  i  kynhwysid  yr   wyth  mewn  dwy 

ran    .    .    henw  a  berf  &c Pa  sawl    Rann  ymadrodd  y  sydd 

wyth  .  .  henw  Rag  henw  &c. 

Tynwyd  allan  'o  lyfr  dwhed  asgrifenasai  sioii   brwynog  iddo  i  hvn  prydydd 

a  ffenkerdd  ag  athro a  hyn  a  derfyna  drwy  lafvr  robert  ifan  piydydd, 

.  XT  .mai .   1587.  . 


*  There  is  no  Richard  White  known  among  the  Welsh  poets,  but  there  was  a 
Richard  White,  a  Professor  of  Theology  at  Douai  at  the  time,  who  died  as  priest  in 
1616. 


944  PENIA&TH  MANUSCRIPT  158. 

57  Yma  i  dechrewir  y  parfiUa  nid  aragen  grameriaith  :  Pa  sawl  kyd 
goi'diad  y  sydd  mewn  ymadrodd  tri  .  .  ,  vn  Rwng  y  nominadio  ar  ferf 
bresenol  &c  .  .  .  .  ends :  yr  ail  sypyn  ....  Li  a  dal  ywchav. 

Ag  fal  hyn  y  terfyu  yr  hwolav  gramadeg  jn  iaith  gymraeg  yrain  a  berthynant 
i  benkerdd  o  brydydd  i  gwybod  yn  anwedig  gidag  iaith  lading  ag  ieitbodd  dierth 

&c (p.  69)  ar  gylfyddyd  hon  ydis  yn  i  galw  prydyddieth  a  oedd  mewn  parch 

niawr  yn  yr  hen  oessoedd  .  ,  .  ag  y  mae  wlkasar  .  .  .  yn  doedyd  yn  i  lyfr  .... 
yn  amser  howel  dda  .  .  .  iioedd  ysdydfach  fardd  fal  i  mai  yn  y  llyfr  o  gyfraith  .  ho: 
dda  yn  dangos  ....  Gr:  ap  kynan  .  .  .  anaeth  gyfraithiav  a  deddfaT  kammoledig 
ar  brydyddion  a  gwyr  wrth  gerdd  danav  ag  henwodd  yddynt  roddion  a  chwrteisi  yw 
gael  gan  bendefigion  y  gwledydd  fel  i  mae  yn  ysybysv  yn  ol  hyn  nid  oes  ryfeddod 
yn  yr  oesodd  hyn  er  bod  y  beirdd  heb  barch  achos  myiid  yn  twsogion an  blaenorio[n] 
an  pennaethiaid  o  nasiwne  eraill  ag  ieithoedd  diarth  hyd  oni  fyno  dvw  roi  pob  peth 
yn  i  le  .  .  ,  .  heddiw  maen  well  chwilenwr/pigwr  pwrs/Ueidr  ma/^ai  na  gwr  wrth 
gerdd  dda  ag  a  gadwo  ran  gwr  wrth  gerdd  achos  fo  gaiff  y  chwilenwr  gwmpyniaeth 
i  dinaswyr  penaf  am  fed  gantho  rod  yw  threilio  ar  gwr  wrth  gerdd  a  gaiff  rodio  yma 
athraw  heb  vn  yn  kyuig  kwmpyniaeth  iddo  Eag  ofn  talv  trosdaw  achos  mae  pawb  yn 
kiliaw  Rag  ddo  ag  yn  tyuv  or  nevlldv  Kag  ynill  gair  da  y  gwr  wrth  gerdd  ag  yn 
kymryd  pob  kymrteithas  na  haiond  vn  allai  roi  dimewartho  ddiod  &c.  diavmercher 
.  ■IJ  ofis  Mai  i3S7  . 

Marchnad  Rythvn  :  A  dvw  llvn  o  flaen  hyny  yn  y  farch  nad  yn  Kythvn  yroddid 
yn  gwerthvr  hobaid  gwenith  o  fesvr  Bythyn  er  namyu  vn  swIW  igen  swllt  ar  kyg  or 
vn  mesvr  cr  xiv"  viii''  or  blawd  keirch  er  xii'  ar  haidd  er  xii'  or  vn  mesvr  sef 
y w  dav  hobaid  Rvddvn  y w  baril  seis  =  pegaid  karn  arfon  ///  ar  hobaid  brag  er  xiii' 
ar  chwart  gwin  or  cwrw  er  ii''      yr  hyn  y  sydd  ddrydanieth  mawr 

72  Bellach  y  soniaf  am  gerdded  yu  lien  dadav  ni  nid  amgen  maea 
dangoB  yn  yn  hen  lyfrav  or  hon  ysdoriae  einom  ni  mae  enog  fab  siareth 
y  seithfed  dyn  o  adda  a  folianodd  dvw  mewn  kyfion  araith  gyutaf  ag  a 
gafas  aweii  ysbrydol  ....  brytys  .  .  nol  darfod  i  weddi  agwnythvr  i 
ofFrwm  ef  aeth  i  hela  ag  a  ddaliodd  etvig  tven  .  .  .  ef  a  gysgodd  ar 
groen  31'  ewig  .  .  .  ag  yn  i  gwsg  ef  a  glowai  drwy  i  hvn  y  ddvwies 
diana  yn  erchi  iddo  gyfodi  i  fynv  a  mynfc  ir  mor  a  hwyh"o  ir  gorlleivin 
&c.  .  .  .  ai  hiliogeth  yn  dal  hyd  yn  amser  edwarty  kyntaf  <fcc. 

78  Ag  am  hyny  nid  Eyfedd  iniaith  ni  fod  yn  gymysgedig 

79  iach  elsbeth  o  rad  dvw  brenhines  o  loegr  &c. 

81  Deddf  ne  gyfraith  gryff  ap  kynan  a  Eai  ai  geilw  ysdatvd  gr:  ap 
k.  yr  hon  y  sydd  yn  Many  y  llyfr  hwn  yn  chwe  llyfr  .  ,  pvm  llyfr 
kerddwriaeth  icrth  y  pvm  gradd  /  ellir  devall  j  ar  gvjeddill  yn  llyfr  ar 
i  ben  i  hvn  sef  ar  y  gwyr  wrth  gerdd  dafod  a  thanav  fal  i  mae  ynysbysv 
am  yr  hai  y  sydd  rydd  vddvnt  gleraf  nid  amgen  gwr  wrth  gerdd  anafys 

&c disgybl   ysbas   &c.  .  &c bellach   (8'i)   i  doedir  am 

roddion  pawb  yn  ol  i  graddav  &c. 

93  Litchy  and  unlucky  signs  :  When  the  signe  hott  &  moiste  falleth 
(as  in  Libra)  thou  maiest  do  all  experiments  &c. 

97-101  &  107-17  Copies  of  Indentures  concerning  the  lands  of 
Basingwerk  Abbey  at  its  dissolution  A"  Regni  nostri  vicessimo  nono 
granted  to  Hugo  Starky. 

102  Copy  of  an  Indenture  with  John  Earl  of  Warwick  relating  to  the 
exchange  of  lands  in  Kent  for  those  in  Flintshire  &c.  in  the  third  year 
of  Edward  vi. 

I2l     ||or  the  putting  of  publicke  bildinges  of  the  citie  &c.    a  fragment 
123       Gwrando  gyngor  gwr  oth  gwlad    .... 
fal  i  treilia  (r)  tan  gan  bwyll 

gwyr  y  ganwill  gynnydd     .... 
O  gwnaeth  Luwther  glafer  gleke     .... 
Mae  (n)  hw  yn  gwadv  (r)  yscrythyr  Ian 

y  miso  i  man  gelwdde pwy  ai  kant 

dyn  ,  ,  .  yn  dymvno  ar  divw  bob  dydd 
tir  ddwyn  ir  ffydd  y  kymrv      Richard  While  ferthvrW 


THE  STATUTE  OF  G.  AP  KITnAN',  NOTES  ETC.  945 

130       Duw  a  ro  (r)  Awen  i  brydydd  o  bryden     .     ,     . 
Dyn  a!  weddi  byth  ar  fair 

hyd  y  gair  diwaetha  Richard  White  ferthvrvr 

136       Gwrandewch  ddatcan  meddwl  maith  .... 
Cyn  mynd  i  Eglwys  Calfia     .... 
lieibl  seisnig  sy  chwim  chwam 
yu  Uawn  o  gam  dychmygion 
ar  gwenidog  ebwanog  chwaith 

yn  llewio  llith  ir  lligion     .... 

Osdaw  gofyn  .  .  .  ymle  cad  i  cautor 

Sir  J.  Howlatt  prydydd  fayth 

ai  gwae  ni  wnaeth  i  gyngor  „  „ 

143      Cymer  dastyn  gymro  mvyn     .... 

dros  roddi  i  ben  iw  dori  „  „ 

149       Gwae  a  rotho  i  ben  ar  lawr  ....  pwy  ai  cant 
athro  .  .  .  sydd  yn  kymryd  karcliar  beth 

yn  biw  mewn  gobetli  etto  „  „ 

156       Directions  how  to  lay  on  "  foyle  or  leaf  goulde  " 
157,  174,  &  180  Recipes  "  ffor  the  coulde  "  &c. 

158     II  hath  robbed  all  relligious  houses  &c. 

160  Accusationis  in  Caium  Verrem  liber  quartus,  being  a  word  for 
word  translation  into  English,  followed  by  other  extracts, 

175  Directions  (in  English)  how  to  play  various  games  "  At  Gardes  " 

180,  188,  191-2  Arithmetical  problems  or  puzzles. 

184  Recipes  '  for  the  toothache,'  '  To  make  black  paper,' '  To  draw  a 
workewith  Glasse'  &c.  (186-7),  'for  the  takinge  of  heyghtes'  (190), 
A  colveringe / A  dowbble  colvering / ffor  a  canon /ffor  a  do wble  canon 
(193)  Ressets  for  all  manner  of  wilde  fires  (194)  ffor  a  hand  gune  (202) 

203  A  certayne  Rule  of  Multiplication 

205       Tro  yma  dy  wyneb  farglwydd  ne     .     .     . 
ag  ofni  V  .  dydd  i  atteb./ 

209       Ty  di  Orengc  tew  dy  aredd     .... 
oni  mendiwch  ym  mundo 

212  Gabriell  ^  laid  to  sleepo  in  the  towne  of  Gallile  &c. 

213  A  Playe  at  Cardes :  Take  the  decke  of  Cardos  and  take  out  all 
the  Cardes  y*  are  of  one  sute  &c. 

Thus  endeth  this  booche  one  sonday  in  ye  onder  heinge  the  '  2^  /  of  ffebruary  1500 

217-40  Ithai  or  Gwehelaethav  .  .  .  Dehevbarth  /kaio/Powys  V.  / 
Powys  W.  /  kyveilinc/ Mechain  /  Arwystly /keredynllo  yn  y  dreweu  ar 
vndre  ar  ddeg  /  ILwydiarth  ym  Powys  /  Aber  tanad  /  Kegidva/  Brigedin 
o  Gogidva  /  y  Maeu  wrtli  groesoswallc /  kaer  Einion  /  Kadwynvan  /  keri  / 
Rhudirth  swydd  oswallt/  Melieny th  /  Elvael  is  Melienidd  /  Aber  Edwy  / 
Elvael  vwch  mynydd/  Buellt  /  Bricheniawc  /  Gwent  ganol  /  Sain  henyd  / 
Gwaynllwg  a  dyved  /  Morganwo  /  Merionyth  /  Edeirnion  a  Dinmael  / 
Nanhwyddwy /  Penllyn  /  Ardudwy/Nannawkedewain  /  Keri  /Dogveilin  / 
Rhos  /  Nanhwydwy  /  ILannerch  Banna  /  Burtyn  /  Tref  Alvn  /  Twdliston 
yn  y  Traian  /  swydd  y  drewen  /  Deuddwr  a  Mechain  /  KaeboII  a  clircv- 
dyn  /  Kynllaith  Owain  /  Tegengl  /  Arwissli  /  Tal  ebolion  /  Powys  a 
chowres  /  Y  Gorddwr  yssa 


946  PENIARTH  MANUSCBIPT  169, 

MS.  159  =  Hen.  66.  PvM  ILyvyr  Kekdwbiaeth,  etc.,  a  Prayer 
of  Augustine  ■&  the  X  Christian  Nations.  Paper,  7|^  X  6  inche.s  j 
210  pages  ;  wrilten  in  1578  fp.  17),  1579  (p.  175),  and'l585  (p.  209) 
by  Kichard  ap  loliu  of  Scorlegan;  bound  in  old  sheep  skin. 

R.I.  1578  At  bwy  Kynac  y  del  y  llyfr  hwnn  ar  ddamwain:  darllenied  dros 
arasser  os  gwiw  gantho:  ae  yno  bydded  mor  liowddgar:  ac  mor  gymwynasgar  ai 
ddanvon  i  scorlegan  yn  llan  gijTihaval  h  ty  Mci  scryvennwyd gynta  gannE:!:  (p.  17). 

There  are  a  few  entries  in  the  hand  of  Sir  T.  Wiliems  (pp.  198,  210),  who  evidently 
had  the  MS.  bound:  it  afterwards  belonged  to  Dr.  "  Jo:  Uavies  .  1620."     (p.  1.) 

The  text  (which  is  practically  a  faithful*  iransa-ipt  of  Jesus  College  MS.  9=  xf. 
g.v.)  is  the  original  of  the  transcript  published  by  the  Welsh  MSS.  Society  (_Llan- 
doverey,  iSl^b').  . 

1  llyma  y  pedair  llythyren  ar  hvgain  &c.       See  J.  C.  MS.  9,  p.  3. 

3-1-32,    13G   Pump  JLyfr    Kerddwrjabth*  :    ILyma   ddysg  i 

adnahod  kerddwriaeth  kexdd  Davod :  herwydd  llyfr  Davydd  ddii 

athraw.  See  J.  C.  MS.  9,  pp.  5-198- 

132  Eissoes  pwy  /r/  oe.ssawr  ifessv  &c.  <S'.  Vachan 

133  Simwnt  o  thelwal  gsy  Omer  /  ssoniant  &c.  „ 
hi  Dymchwelawdl  a  vessvrir  o  vgain  ssilldaf  &c. 

Y  gwr  gorav  /  ymric  rirav  /  a  mawr  giried  &c,       „ 

134  bevlwawr  hy  olav  //  hoywlwys  //  &c.  ,, 
137  jf  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  ho:  ap  Ednyved  vyclian 

Rys  ap  gruffudd  fvdd  veiddiaw  rrvddiawdr  :  rryssedd  .  . 
rraidd  rroddiawc  Rys  frowys  fri  Einion  yffeiriad 

144       llavvria  gweithia  ymysc  gweithwyr  /  byd  &c.       Ho:  bangor 

b.  Ystyrio  gair  dvw  :  ystori  gwirdad  &c.\       Simwnt  Vachan 
145-97  Mewn  ymadrodd  y   mae  tair  Rann  nid  amgen   j  Enw  j 

Gair  /  a  lief  ymgyffred  &c.  See  J.  0.  MS.  9,  pp.  231-92. 

198  Tri  chudiad  serch  ysydd :  C&a  a,  dhds&n  aa  aaevch  ....  end$  :  Tri  didyb 
serchog  ;  vu  gen  ad  gywir,  ac  anvyuych  gyvedd  .         [Haw  T.  W.] 

199  ILyma  weddi  yr  athro  anrhydeddOs  sunt  Aivgwsfin  escob 
hyppcn .  O  addvwynyssa  arglwydd  ^esv  grist  wir  ddvw  rhwnn  ith 
ddanfonwyd  o  fynwes  y  tad  hollallvoc  ....  ends:  yn  byw  ac  yu 
teyrnassv  yn  oes  ocssoedd ,  4-nien 

Davydd  Johrts  bicar  Uanfair  dyffryn  klwyd  ai  troes  i  ggmraec 

203  Dengran  gwahaniaeth  krislnogian  y  byd :  Noda  fed  kenedl- 

aethav   kristnogion    wedi    ymranny    yn  ddeg   nassiwn Y 

lladinwyr  sy  ar  pab,  ar  emprwyr  rhvfeiniawl  yn  ben  arnyn  a  Uawer 

o  frenhinoedd  &c y  ddcgved  nassiwn:  Y  mo30zabieit,  hwy 

a  fvont  >n  ami  iawn  gyiit  yu  hveddaii  yr  affric  ar  hjsbaen  .... 
ends  :  ni  ffiiodant  oud  .  .  .  ci  kenedlaeth  hwy  hvnain  /  a  ffiin  fo 
farw  y  gwr  ni  ffrioda  y  ivraic  bono  fyth  ond  h}  nny  .  ond  aros 
mewn  diwair  wedddod         .  13S3  . 

Davydd  lohns :  vicar  II.  voir  d.  klwyd  ai  troes  o  ladin  i  gymraec     .  'I5SS  . 

210  Ef  a  las  or  12  gogyfwrdd  o  ffraink  .  .  Engeler  .  .  Roland  &c. 
6.  Bydd  ddilesg  rufudd  bydd  ddlbech  &c.  Eden:  vychan 

oivab  wrih  vyned  ir  Jwerddon 

c.  Balaw,  Gwaell  ai  bwcwl  /  Arvav  &o.     [Kaic]  Th:  W 

d.  Uchder  twr  Babilon,  medd  ^fsidorus,  oedd  5164  o  gamrav  &c. 


*  Few  additions  to  the  text  have  been  noticed  in  book  ii,,  &c.,  and  the  trans- 
position cf  one  subdivision.  For  the  rest,  it  reproduces  not  only  the  text,  the 
torraation  of  its  large  initials,  and  patching  with  red  ink,  but  even  the  blank  spaces 
and  leaves  of  its  original. 

t  See  J.  C.  MS,  9,  p.  230,  6. 


THE  SCOSLEGAK  GEAMMARS.  947 

_  MS.  160  =  Hen.  169.  Welsh  Geammabs.  Paper  ;  7|  X  6 
inches;  190  pages— slightly  imperfect;  written  in  1503  by  Eichard  ap 
lohn  of  Scorlegan  ;  sewn  in  limp  vellum  covers. 

This  MS.  seems  to  have  passed  through  many  hands.  On  the  corors  and  fly 
leaves  the  following  names  occur  :  Hugh  Lewis  /  Owen  Wynne,  Owen  Lloyd, 
Llansadwru  Llansanan  /  The  Rev:  Mr  Owen  att  Caer,  doctor  /  Rowland  Wynne 
Glanrafon  /  &r:  Jones  Nantlley  /  Gr:  lloyd  (p.  1)  /  Lloyd  Maes  y  porth  (p.  74)  / 
°7,?  ,  i°^  "^  Tyddyn  Agnes  (p.  102)  /  Rowland  Jones  (p.  117)  /  W.  Hughes 
of  Bodaden  1739  /  "  Y  llyfr  hwn  yw  Rhodd  Mr  William  AVynn  Person  Llan- 
gynhaval  i  Edward  Jones  1759  "  anwir  yw  hynny*  (p.  80)  /  Robert  Wynne  1776  / 
Gr;  Roberts  yw'r  Perchennog  1795  T  Parch:  Robert  Wynn  ai  rhoddodd  (p.  188). 
1-140  Val  dyma  ddysc  i  adnabod  cerddwriaeth  cerdd  davod 
herwi/dd  Wyir  Dauydd    ddvy   athro  .  &c.f 

Yma  (p.  140)  y  tervyna  y  pumed  llyfr  kerddwriaeth  kerdd  davawd  .  Ac  ef  a 
gopiwyd  y  llyfr  hwnn  allan  o  lyfr  y  godidowkaf  Benkerdd  ac  athro  gorau  yn  i 
amsser  Simwnt  Vachan  j .  A  dauydd  Salbri  o  dd6I  hadarn,  biau  y  llyfr  hwnn. 
Oed  krist  pan  ysgrifenwyd  hwnn  :1593:  [Sec  Pen.  MS.  159.] 

Jiich:  ap  lohn  ai  scrivennodd  . 
The  te.xt  of  this,  like  the  preceding  MS.,  is  a  verbatim  copy  of 
Jesus  College  MS.  9  =  xv  (pp.  5-198). 

14.5  Mynac,  gorchymynn,  damvnwyf  :  kvssan  &c.  Ho:  ap 

b.  Ebw,  geni,  Eoddi  mewn  Ewyf:  kyhoedys  &c.      ssyr  Mathew 

c.  Ystyrio  gair  duw  :  ystori  //  gwir  da  &c.  S.  Vachan 

d.  ILafuria  gweithia  mysc  gweithwyr  /  byd  &c.  Ho:  bangor 
lol-88t    Yma  y  Soniwnn  am  ffu  g  r  au,  ai  Ran  n  au  .  Y  Eai  a 

ymchwelawdd      Will  am     Salbri,     or     lladin     ynghamberaec  : 
Schema  y  ssydd  rvw  ssickrawcli  ar  air  nev  araith  &c. 

as  in  Jesus  College  MS.  9=xv  {pp.  247-92). 

189  Dewis  bethau  davydd  Melienydd :  Borevgwaith  tawel  glaer 
a  byrrwlith  ar  feillion,  fiyrfeidd  dies  riein  &c.     .... 

b.  kariad  aur  vwriad  ar  vorwyn  /  liwgalch  &c. 

190  (Ty  brith  di  fendith  a  fo  evrawg  wedd  &c.     John  Phylipp) 
b,       (Eos  0  Benrhos  Uei  bon  o  vnair  .... 

ai  awen  ssad  Owen  Sion.  J.  I'hilipp) 


MS.  161  =  Hen.  267.  Poetick  Eules.  Paper;  7|  x  6  inches ; 
pages  1-56  &  57-84;  written  by  ?Ehyg  Kain  (pp.  3-5(5),  Dr.  John 
Uavies  (pp.  57-81,  whicli  are  imperfect  throughout),  and  Sion  Kain 
(p.  1)  ;  sewn  in  limp  vellum  (imperfect). 

The  text  of  pages  3-5li  appears  to  be  a  kind  of  .ibbreviated  selcclion^from  Books 
iv,  iii,  T,  &c.,of  Kerddwriaeth  hcrdd  Davod,  and  the  remaining  pages  contain  poetry 
illustrative  of  the  different  metres  and  the  meaning  of  words  selected  by  Dr.  John 
Davies,  possibly  for  his  Grammar. 

1   Pann  vo  w.  ne  s.  yn  ol  R  a  bogal  &c. — a  fragment. 

3  Kynghanfitd  :  kynglianedd  yw  kydsain  negydliiiskydsainiaid  a 
cliyf newid  bognliaid  .  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  Twyllgynghanedd  yw  honn  ar 
gam  osodiad  Ar  loyw  wych  gorff  alarch  gwyn 


*  Tiie  italicised  words  are  in  the  autograph  of  the  Rev.  AV.  Wynn,  who  has  e,1so 
written  at  the  end  of  Book  11.  ^p.  5S^—"  So  far  David  Vdu's  Gramma.r."  And 
again  on  p.  9t  in  answer  to  the  "  Quaere  whether  Simwnt  "Vachan  Gramar  is  inserted 
in  Sir  \V.  Midleton's  Book  that  I  hare  att  PI4s-Tirion."  "  Jt  is  Captain  W. 
Middlettm's  printed  book.     Sir  Ti'iliam's  I  know  iiot." 

■\    M  kasl  four  p:igos  of  text  following  page  50  are  missing. 

T  Three  leaves  have  been  cut  out  after  page  188. 


948  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   101-162. 

16       Vu  diiw  /  iawii  dad  fon  /  da  in  dydd  a  roes  &c.     Rys  Kain 
Gwael  y  w  dysg  glvd  all  gweled  wy w  glod  wall  &c.   W.  TLyn 

19  [Mesureu  herd:  .•]  Yuglyu  vnodl  vnion  a  vesiirir  o  ddeg  silltaf 
ar  hiigain.  Ar  silltaf  gyntaf,  ne'r  ail  &c.  .  .  .  yn  atfb  yn  vn  saia 
ar  bvmed  &c.  .  .  .  ends :  braich  yniwl  brycheiniawc  . 

33  Soniwti  am  Veiav  hyffredin :  Twyll  gynghanedd  a  ddigwydd  o 
ddwy  ifordd  vn  yw  o  gam  osod  Uythyren  ne  chwaneg  val 
Katrin  deg  kair  yt  enw  da  &c. 

42   Wyth  ranymadrodd  y  sydd  .  .  Henw,  Ehaghenw  Berf,  a  chyf- 
raniad  &c kyhiiddedigaeth  a  ddaw  ar  ol         left  un6iii.shed    p.  46 

54  Pvmp  dipton  dalgron  y  sydd  .  .  .  Aw  .  Ew  .  iw  .  vw  .  yw  .  &c. 

56  Yr  havl  oedd  ar  hwyl  vddvn 

aeth  yn  rliew  mawr  yn  llawr  llyn  &c. 

57  Lines  selected  by  Dr.  Davies  as  illustrations  of  different  metres. 

69  A  selection  of  words   arranged  alphabetically  with  illustrative 
passages  taken  from  the  poets. 


MS.  162  =  Hen.  354.  Ordinances  of  the  Church,  Dares 
Pheygius,  Brut  Y  Brenhinedd  etc.  Parti.  Vellum;  7|  X  5;|  inches  ; 
56  folios  ;  15th  century.  Part  ii.  Paper;  8  x  5|  inches;  152  pages 
wanting  beginning  and  end;  about  1600;  half  bound,  with  part  i. 

This  MS.  was  once  ia  the  Sebright  collection  and  numbered  139.  It  has  the 
name  of  Thomas  Wilhins  in  several  places,  which  shows  that  it  formerly  belonged 
to  the  Jesus  College  Library.  The  names  of  W.  Lewis,  Lewis  .Tones,  Lewis 
Morgan,  and  Christopher  Vaughans  occur  also  in  the  margins. 

Part  i.  The  Ordinances  of  the  church  in  Latin  on  vellum.  The 
beginning  is  wanting.     It  ends  :  Constat  honynton. 

Part  ii.  3  \\E,yma  ddechre  y  starter  anrydeddys  j  Gwybydded 
pawb   or   rhai   kyndrychawl    ar   rhai  *  *  *  *  rhac   Haw   y  dryndod 

vendigedic  or  nef ends :  Ac  yna  y  gwnaethbwyd  y  vanachloc 

a  elwid  glan  gydwybod  /  hc  yna  y  rhoed  bwyd  yr  abades  yny  lie,  yr 
honn  a  elwir  kariad  perffaith,  a  doethineb  yw  r  briores  /  ac  velly  y 
kafad  yr  holl  chofaint  yny  gradd  y  hvnain  /  o  drigaredd  diiw  holl 
alleoc  kreawdyr  nef  a  daear 

12  Drwy  gyfarch  diiw  yn  bcnna  Sidanen  y  voliana    .... 
Sidaneu  wythfed  harri  ....  Sidanen  brynnses  rrhasol 

13  ILyma  ddechrav  y  sids  o  droea  o  vlaen  y  Itronigl  ar  ryfeloedd 
a  vy  yn  echrav  y  hronigl  knns  peleas  vrenin  a  oedd  yn   y  kastell  a 

elwir  pelopcus ewrf*.- achidacelennysai  vam  ai  ddwy  chwiorydd 

i  ddaeth  dav  kant  a  thair  mil  o  ddynnionn  //  Ac  velly  y  terfyna  ystori 
dared  yn  vyrr  am  y  sids  o  drocaf. 

63  Bryttaen  orav  or  ynysoedd  yr  honu  a  elwid  y  wenn  yays 

Gwedy  gael  y  gaer  i  ffoes  eueas  ac  esgannys  i  vab  yr  aidal  yr  hwn  a 

elwir  gwlad  Kyfaiu ends  :  ac  velly  o  gattfydd  i_  kafad  y 

mab  rhako  /  ac  yno  i  dywad  y  brenin  wrth  y  mab  vod  yn  rhaid  yddaw 
[ollwng]  i  waed  ef  i  geisio  gan  y  gwaith  sefyll  /  1| 

This  text  is  in  verbal  agreement  with  that  of  Brul  Tyssilio  priuted  in  the 
Myfijrian  Archaiology  of  Waks. 


THE  WONDERS  OF  BRITAIN  ETC.  949 

MS.  163  in  two  parts  =  Hen.  352.  Part  i.  Tenures,X  Natum 
Brevtum,  Legal  Proceedings  from  year  boohs  of  Henrij  viiith,  Moote 
casts,  A  Barister's  private  account,  A  Rental  of  many  places  in  JVales 
and  Englajid,  including  Terra  et  possessioneis  (luoiidem  Eicei  Gr; 
armiger  Attiiicti  ac  posteacomitisse  Bridgewater,  nearly  all  in  French. 
Paper ;  about  8  x  5^  inches  ;  circa  1584  ;  with  part  ii  ;  half  bound. 

The  Rental,  which  is  in  Latin,  has  the  seal  of  Sir  John  Sebright  on  its  firsc  page  ; 
and  on  the  opposite  page  is  the  name  oi -Aahrey  Maynard  sonne  of  John 
Maynard. 

Part  ii. — Gosodiad,  Rhagoreu,  Rhyvebodeu,  Rhanneu  arbennic, 
Rhag  Ynysseb,  Peifpyhd,  Kenedlaetheu,  Jeithoed  etc.  Ynts 
Brydein;  Cymtdeua  Chantbevyd  Kymry,  Diwed  Arthur,  Siartyr 
]arix  Arundel,  Cydvod  1406,  The  Myeocr  of  the  Worlde  or 
Geometrie,  Petheu  GORED  llyvyr  Kyvreith.  Paper;  8|x  6  inches; 
202  pages,§  bound  with  Part  i. 

Pages  1-82  are  in  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethoc,  and  were  written  in  1543 

(pp.   55,  64)   and   1548  (p.  78)  ;  the  Laws  (pp.  119-202)  are  in  a  different  hand 

and  perhaps   a   little    earlier;  while   pages   83-118    belong   to   the    17th  century. 

"  Edw;  Powell  his  Kooke  wittnesse  Thomas  Moystan  of  Gwersyllt  1698  "  (p.  104). 

1   Gossodiad  yr  ynys  honn  ssydd  Ewng  y  gorllewin  &c.  *25,  fa 

h.  Ragorav  yr  ynys  :  Ragorol  y w  yr  ynys  honn  Rac  gwledydd  er'aill 
.  .  .  ffrwythlawn  yw  .  .  .  meyssydd  llydain  ehang  a  bryniav  eglvr  .  .  , 

iforestydd    kyflawn   o  .  .  .  wistviloedd    &c ends:  a   ffob  peth 

ar  a  vo  rreidiol  a  damvnedic  )  vywyd  dynion  y  sydd  ynthi  yn  ddigonol 
eb  orvod  gwest  ar  le  arall  or  byd.  #25,  f2 

4  Ryfeddode  yr  ynys:  DJawer  o  anrryveddode  y  sydd  ya  ynys 
brydain  .  .  .  pedwar  .  .  yn  Rragorol  Rrac  eraill — 1,  yw  Twll  yn  y 
ddayar  lie  gelwir  y  Fee  ar  Sa«sson  ai  geilw  ef  -ar  ItauX  of  veK  ac  0 
hwnw  y  daw  gwyut  ,  .  .  ,  2,  Kor  y  kowri  ar  vynydd  ambri  .... 
3,  gogof  a  elwir  {s)he  rd  hot  a  gogofav  eraill  .  .  .  .  nid  oes  neb  yn 
gallv  myned  yw  diben  hwynt  /  4,  gweled  yglaw  yn  ymddyrchafel 
or  mynyddoedd,  Rryntho  ar  awyr  ac  ebolvdd  yn  disgyn  ar  hyd 
ymeyssydd  /  mae  hevyd  ijny  gogledd  .  .  .  Uynn  llymonwy  ac 
yntho  .  Ix  .  ynys  a  60  avon  .  .  yn  dyvod  ir  Uynn  ac  nid  oes  on  vn 
(llefyn)  yn  rredec  ir  mor  .  .  ymhob  ynys  y  mae  karec  vchel  vawr  ac 
ymhob  karec  nyth  Eryr  &c.  .  .  .  mae  Uynn  arall  yn  ymyl  kymrv  ar 
Ian  havren  .  .  llyn  lliwon  a  phann  lanwo  y  mor.y  llwnk  yntav  y 
mor  megis mor gerwyn ac  ni  chvdd  yglanav  era  el  yntho  o  ddwfr  &c  . .  . 
Uynn  arall  .  .  .  lie  bydd  pobl  yn  ymdrochi  .  .  .  hwynt  a  geft'ynt 
y  dwfr  yn  yr  ardymyr  ']  damvnynt  Mae  ynthi  [«'c]  heryd  fFynhoniav  o 
ddwfr  hallt  ymheU  o  iwrtli  ymor  ar  dwfr  a  vydd  yn  heli  drwy  yr 
wythnos  hyd  bryd  gosber  ddvw  Sadwrn  :  ac  0  hynny  liyd  gyfry  w  amser 
dranoeth  y  bydd  yn  groyw  ac  or  heli  hwnw  y  kair  halen  gwynn  man 

&c mae  hevyd  .  ,  .  glawdd  yv  hwn  y  daw  gwyut  kyn  gad- 

arned  val  nail  neb  sefyll  ....  hevyd  .  .  .  Uynn   a   wna  p  r  e  n  n  yn 
garec    .   .    .    Gerald  a   ddowaid  .  .  .    dyfrdwy    .  .  .  llyn  tegid 

ends:  mae    bedd  ar  bonn   brynn  .  .  sy   gymhe^svr  i  bob 

dyn  ar  ai  prove  o  hyd  ac  o  gostwng  dyn  blin  ar  i  liuie  Ef  a  vydd  diflin 
.  .  .  raal  pe  kaffai  hir  orfiowys.  *29,  fa'' 

7  Rannav  ar  benic :  Gwedi  marw  brvtvs  .  .  .  y  Rranwyd  yr  ynys 
yn  3  Rrann  Rrwng  .  .  .  Lokrinvs  .  kamber  /  ac  Albanactvs  .... 

J  Extracted  from  Les  Tenures  da  Monsieur  Littleton  (1569). 
§  The  first  leaf  12  wanting.     For  its  text  see  Pen.  MS.  168  fol.  1. 
The  numbers  asterisked(*)  refer  to  the  pages  of  Pen.  MS.  147,  and  those  with 
the  dagger(t)  to  the  folios  of  Pen,  MS.  168,  which  also  contain  this  text, 


960  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   168". 

Clawdd  Offa  ...  or  tv  vchaf  y  mae  kristionydd  /  kyssylle  /  hendre 
geginan  /  krogen  )ddon  /  krogen  wladvs  y  bydd  y  Saesson  yn  i  hanod 
ir  kymrv  gan  i  galw  Walis  grogen  .  .  .  alias  adwyr  beddav  /  ymhenn 
pirk  kastell  y  wavn  Ac  or  bydd  (henw  kymreic)  nr  dref  is  law  y 
iclnwdd  ef  a  vydd  arnei  henw  seissnic  hevyd  /  megis  y  "Wavn  i.e. 
Sirk  /  tref  yklawdd  =  Knychton  /  llan  andras  =  presten  &c.         *34,  fs'' 

8  Tair  llys  frenhinawl  '.  \  .  Aberflfro  .  .  .  Caer  vyrddin  .... 
Pengwern  &c.  *37,  f? 

b,  JLawer  o  ryveddodav  sydd  yn  y  wlad  honn  I  yai^^  ynys  ymorganwc 
yn  ymyl  mor  hafren  ac  ynthi  dwll  bychan  yn  y  ddayar  ac  o  rrydd  dyn  i 
glvst  wrth  y  twll  hwnw  Ef  a  glyw  sain  rryvedd  yntbo  weithie  raegis 
gwynt  mawr  mewn  koed  ....  llivo  arvav  nev  hogi  .  .  .  trwst  tan. 

Mae  gwlad  yn  sxoydd  benfro  y  bydd  ysbrydoedd  yn  Tynycb  yn  blino 
y  bobl  ac  yn  7  kvro  a  thorn  ac  a  thywairch  dan  ymsserthv  a  hwynt  &c. 

Yn  y  deav  lie  gelwir  y  krve  mawr  y  mae  bedd  kymhessvr  o  hyd  a 
lied  J  bawb  /  ac  o  gedy  dyn  yno  "j  arvav  kyfan  dros  nos  ef  ai  kaiff 
hwynt  yn  ddryllie  dranoeth 

"Ynys  Enlli  j  a  chynhonwyr  krefyddol  oedd  yni  chyvanheddv  ar 
hynaf  ...  a  vyddai  varw  yn  gynta  ac  velly  o  hynaf  i  hyn.if  /  ac  yn 
yr  ynys  honn  )  kladdwyd  Merddin  vab  Morfrynn 

Gerllaw  Urvddlan  y  mae  Jfynon  vechan  a  Rrvw  amser  yny  dydd  y 
bydd  digon  o  ddwfr  ynthi  /  a  rrvw  amser  arall  ni  bydd  vn  dafn. 

Maen  morddwyd  yn  IL.  idian :  ymon  y"niae  kareg  gymaint  a 
morddwyd  gwr  ac  er  palled  y  dyker  hi  oi  lie  hi  a  vydd  erbyn  tranoeth 
yn  yr  vn  mann  ac  i  dyked  o  honaw  Hvw  iarll  ymwythic  yn  amser 
Hari  (y  kyntaf )  f i-enhin  a  beris  rrwymo  y  garec  honn  a  chadwyn  hayarn 
wrth  garec  arall  ai  bwrw  yn  y  mor  ac  erbyn  tranoeth  yr  oedd  hi  yn  i  lie 
j(  hvn  /  Gwr  or  idad  bono  a  rwymodd  y  garec  wrth  i  esgnir  a  hob  ohir 
ef  a  ddrewodd  y  goes  wrth  y  koi-ff  ar  garec  aath  iw  lie  /  o  gwnair  pechod 
godineb  yn  agos  att  y  gareg  hon  hi  a  chwssa  ac  ni  chair  ytifedd  or 
weithred  bono 

Y  Brynn  hyddar  yn  ymyl  Bodychen  :  mae  yno  garec  er  maint  yai 
drwst  a  wnaed  a  chyrn  nev  agenevav  or  naill  dv  iddi  ni  chlywid  tin» 
yn  y  tv  arall 

Ynys  y  Uygod  ar  gyfair  IL.  elien :  Ac  i  mae  ynya  yn  gyvagos  att 
hynny  lie  ddoedd  vevdwyaid  gynt  ac  o  syrthie  ymrysson  nev  gynddry- 
gedd  Rrwng  neb  o  naddvnt  ai  gilydd  ef  a  ddoe  aneirif  o  lygod  i  ddi 
tfrwytho  )  llvniaeth  &c. 

Gerllaw  manaohloc  ddinas  bassing  y  maer  ,/fy  won  wenfrewy  .  ,  . 
gwyrthvawr  yw  rrac  llawer  o  glefydev  /  ac  ynthi  y  kair  keric  a 
mannav  kochion  val  gwaed  )  arwyddokav  y  gwaed  a  golles  gwenfrewy 
santes  pann  dorred  i  ffen  /  Ef  a  vydd  plant  oi  lin  Ef  yn  kyvarth  val 
kwn  hyd  pann  ddelwynt  yno  i  ofErwm  nev  i  mwythic  lie  mae  )  hesgyrn 
hi  yn  gorffowys  .  klych  abaglav  sydd  gymaint  ]  hanrrydedd  yn  y  wlad 
hon  ymysc  yr  ysgolheigion  a  llygion  val  i  mae  haws  ganthvut  dyngv 
anvdon  i  bedwar  llyfr  yfengil,  noc  ar  vn  or  rrai  hynn 

niyn  Syvaddon]  :  Ymrecheinioc  y  mae  pysgodlyn  o  amrafaelion 
Eywi»aethav  pysgod  ag  amravel  liw  ar  naddvnt  ...  A  phan  vo  oer 
yrhin^Ef  a  glywir  seiniav  rryvedd  dann  y  Uynn  /  ac  o  daw  twysoc 
ir  tir  yno  ac  erchi  i  adar  ganv  hwynt  a  ganant  yn  ddi  ohir  ac  nid 
ymgenant  er  arch  dyn  arall  *3?.  t7 

10  Tair  rrac  ynys  ystlysawl  y  sydd  ir  ynys  hon  .  .  7,  Y.  wicht  .  . 
2,  Y.  von  .  .  braich  byrr  or  mor  ssydd  yntervynv  rrwng kymry  a  mon 


The  numbers  asterisked(*)  refer  to  the  pages  of  Pen.  MS.  U7,.and  those  with 
lie  elaggerCt)  to  the  folios  of  Pen.  MS.  168,  which  also  contain  this  text. 


THE  WONDEKS  OF  BRITAIN.  951 

a  elwir  menai  /  ac  ^-no  ymae  mor  gerwyn  a  Iwnk  ac  a  svjryn  longav 
atti  ...  3,  Manaw  .  .  Mawr  oedd  avfer  o  swynion  a  chyvareddion 
gynt  yn  jr  yiiys  honn  /  kanys  gwragedd  a  vyddynt  yno  yn  gwnevthvr 
gv?ynt  1  long\\7r  gwedii-  gav  mewn  tii  cliwlni  o  edav  A  phan  vai  eissie 
gwynt  arnynt  dattod  kwlm  or  edav  anaynt  Ynyrynys  honn  y  kair  gvveled 
liw  dydd  bobyl  a  vvessynt  veiiw  /  Krai  gwedi  tori  pennav  /  eraill  gwedi 
torri  i  haelode  /  Ac  os  dieithred  a  ddissyfynt  i  gweled  hwynt,  sengi  ar 
draed  gwyr  or  tir  ac  velly  hwyut  a  gaent  wel'ed  yr  hyn  a'  welssynt 
h-wyntav  &c.  *4i  igb 

12  Obriffyrdd  brenhmol  yr  ynys :  Dyfnwal  Moel  ravd  y  brenhin 
kyntaf  .  .  .  Kf  a  wnaeth  beli  vab  Dyfnwal  bedair  piiffordd  .  .  .  i, 
ffossa  .  .  ,  2,  watling  ystryd  &c.  *43,  ^gb 


ni" 


14  Tair  pj'f/ aww  yssydd  .  .  .  Teniys  &c.  *45,  tioi" 

15  Gynt  yr  oedd  28  o  brif  ddinessydd  yn  teghav  yr  ynys  hon  .  .  Caer 
Ivdd  &c.  :»46,  fU'' 

22  Gwledydd  a  Siroedd  yr  ynys  ,  .  .  kent  /  Sowth  rey  /  Sowth 
sex  &c.  *52,  tu 

23  kyfreithiav :  Dyfnwal  a  roes  gyfraith  ir  bryttaniaid  a  breinie  ir 
temlav  ar  Erydr  /  ar  dinessydd  Ac.  .  .  .  Gwedi  dyfnwal  ilf arista 
freuhines  gwraic  kyhelyn  .  .  a  wnaeth  gyfraith  .  .  .  ar  ddwy  gyfraith 
hyun  a  droes  gildas  ap  kaw  o  fryttanec  yn  lladin  ac  wyth  o  Siroedd 
lloegr  avvant  yni  cliadw  yn  hir  o  amsseroedd  .  .  swyddet;  ryd  ychen  / 
warwic  /  gaer  frangon  /  gaerloyw  /  henfFordd  /  ymwythic  /  ystaffbrd  a 
chaerlleon  Gwedi  hyny  Alfryd  ...  a  droes y  kyffreithiav hyn  o  ladin 
yn  Saessnec  &c.  .  .  .  Edrych  .  .  .  llyfr  kyntaf  yn  y  polikronika 
cap.  36  &c.  *53,  ti5 

25  Or  henedlaeth  awladychassant  V.  B.  Bryttaniaid  a  gynhal- 
iassant  yn  gyfan  goron  Y.  B.  o  amser  brvttM*  .  .  .  hyd  pann  ddoeth  wl 
kassar  &c.  *6l,  fie 

27  The  Saxon  Heptarchy  —  or  ssaith  hrenhiniaeth  vchod  ai 
tervynav  ac  oi  dechrevad  a  phar  hyd  y  parhassant.  Er  bod  y 
bryttaniaid  o  ddyfodiad  y  Saesson  .  .  ,  yn  arwain  y  goron  .  .  Eissioes 
yr  oedd  y  Saesson  yn  trigo  yn  y  tir  /  ac  yn  i  oresgyn  bob  ychydic 
&c.  ...  a  chyutaf  brenhiuiaeth  vv  gent  &c.  .  .  .  Mers  oedd  y 
seithved  .  .  a  mwyaf  oedd  .  .  .  ends :  gwedi  hyny  y  gyrodd  Edward  i 
.  .  brenhin  Westsex,  ^vy^  denmark  allan  or  tir  ac  ai  rhwymodd  hi  wrth 
i  frenhiniaeth  Ef  i  hvn  .  .  o.k.  901  *&Z,-^\1^ 

33  Tair  o  Eisteddvae  arch  Esgobion  oedd  .  .  yn  amsser  lies  ap  koel 
&c.  .  .  .  yn  ysgrlferiedic  yn  llyfr  kronig  a  wnaeth  Rrannwlff  pritton 
mynach  o  gaer  lleon  /  vvvddhav  o  arch  Esgob  iork  &c.  *55,  f  20'' 

39  Or  Kenedlaethav  a  xoladychassant  yr  ynys  honn  a  phamsser 
y  doethanl  pob  vn  ir  ynys:  Brytaniaid  gyntaf  .  .  .  2,  y  fiictiaid  yn 
amsser  Vasbassian  ...  a  phan  nackawyd  .  .  merched  y  brytaniaid 
yn  wreikae  vddvnt  .  hwyt  agymcrssant  verched  y  gwyddyl,  danu 
amod  .  .  ddewis  o  naddvnt  f  brenhin  .  .  .  o  vamwys  ...  5,  yr 
ysgotiaid  .  .  .  ^,  y  Saesson  .  ,  .  5,  Gwyr  denmark  .  .  .6,  Nor- 
nianiaid  .  .  .  7,  yn  amser  hari  I  y  dooth  rlfedi  mawr  o  fflemissiaid  ir 
tir  .  .  .  gerllaw  Mail  rros  .  .  .  hwynt  assmvdwyd  hyn  yn  Rros  a 
ffenfro  &c.  "69,  fas" 


The  numbers  asteriskod(*)   refer  to  the  pages  of  Pen.  MS.  147,  and  those  with 
the  dagger(t)  to  the  folios  of  Pen.  MS.  168,  which  also  contain  this  text. 


952  PENIABTH  MANUSCRIPT  163. 

43  Or  JeitWedd  ar  kenedlaethav  HatvriavX  •  -Pob  kenedlaeth  or 
Rrai»  a  want  yn  gwladychv  .  .  .  yr  oedd  iaith  neilltvol  j  bob  vn  ,  .  , 
Amrafaelion  arverav  a  natvriaethav,  based  on  statements  in  the  first 
booli  o/ Folic ronica  Eanulphi  (p.  49)  »73  i^'^^x, 

velly  y  terfyna  y  pj'mthec  kabidwl  a  ddoded  yn  y  Ihjvyr  bach  hwnn 
wedi  trot  or  lladin  ynghymraec  Er  diddanwch  ac  ysbysrwydd  i 
genedl  y  brytaniaidj  .gj 

Myvi  am  Haw  vy  hvnan  grvffyd  hiraethoc  a  ysgrivenais  hii'nn 
o.k.  -(343  yr  20fed  dydd  o  vis  gorfPena  &c. 

57  ff.i/7na     ijmodd   ytnessvrwyd   ac  J  Rranveyd   ac    J   Rivwyd 
Kantbefoedd  a  Chymydav  holl  Gymrv  yn  amsser  itn  ap  gr-  y 
twyssoc  dtwaethaf  or  kymrv.     Tair  talaith  a  vv     vn  yn  aberfru  ymon  j 
ar  atl  ymnefwr  ynhevbarth  /  ar  drydedd  y  mathraval  ymhywys  / 
TALAITH   ABERFFRAW 
Sir  Von 
Abeepfro     llivon  /  raalltraeth 
Kbmais  tal  Ebolion/twr  kelyn 

Erossvb        tindaethwy  /  menai 

Sir  Arv o n 
Aber  y  llechwedd  vchaf /y  Uechwedd  issaf  /  nan  konwy 

Arvon  vwch  gwyrvai  /  is  gwyr  vai 

DvNODic        ardvdwy  /  Eivionydd 
JLyn  kymytmaen  /  tinllaen'  /  kaualogion^ 

Sir     Veirio  NY  b 
Meieion        tal  ybont/ penal /ystymanaifS 
Arwystli      vwch  koed  /  ia  koed  /  gwarthrynion 
Penllyn       vwch  meloch  /  is  meloch  /  miknint^ 

F   BB  RVEDDWLAD 

YsTRAD         vwch  aled  /  is  aled  / 
Rryvonioc'  hiraethoc  /  ^keinmeirch* 
Ros  vwch  dvlas  /  is  dvlas  /  y  krevddyn 

D.  KMVTfD      gologioa'  /  llannarth  /  rrvthvn' 
Tegaingl     kwnssallt^  /  prestatvn  /  rrvddlan 

Ae  Telly  y  kad  yny  dalaith  bono  xv  kantref  Gwynedd  ac  o  gymydav  xxxviij. 
TALAITH    VATHRAVAL 

P  Y  WY  S      Va do  C  ^ 

T  Barwn      diamael  /  edeirnion  /  glyn  dyfrdwy 

Y  Rriw  -fal  /  Ystryd  alvn  /  yr  hob 

Vwch  nant  merffordd  /  maelor  gymraec  /  maelor  S. 

Trefbed        kroesvain  /  tref  y  waini"  /  kroess  ysswallt 

Rraiadr       mochnant  /  is  rrayadr^'  /  kynllaith  /  nan  hevdwy 

The  numbers  asterisked(*)  refer  to  the  pages  of  Pen.  MS.  147,  and  those  with 
the  dagger(t)  to  the  folios  of  Pen.  MS.  168,  which  also  contain  this  text. 

J  Pen.  MS.  168  adds  here:  Finito  libra  sit  Laus  et  gloria  Christo  .  Qui  leget 
emendet  scriplm-em  non  reprehendtt.  Q'd  Sir  John  Pouys  Anno  Dni  .  -1514  ./ 
Descript :  1389  mensi  Decemhri  (fol,  31). 

§  "  0  vewn  Py wys  vadoc  yr  oedd  swydd  y  Drewen'gynt  ac  velly  ydyly  vod  Ettwa." 

'  Pen.  MS.  147  reads  tin  llawen.  7  MS.  J.  B.  reads  goleion  j  llannarch  / 

2  ib:  koedigiov.  Hythyn  j  dogveilin. 

"  ib:  megynaint.     Pen.  MS.  166  reads        *  ib:  kwnsnallt. 
mihnaint.  "  ib:  Syvogion. 

■*  MS.  106  reads  heimmeirch  '"  Pen.  MS.  147  reads  tref  y  ledyn. 

■'■  MS.  John  lirooke  reads  ysdymofir.  ''  MS.  John  Brooke  omits  is  rrayadr 

"  ib.  Iteymerch, 


CANTKEVS   AND   COMMOTES   OP   WALES. 


953 


I'rwrs     Wenwynwyn 
Eftrnwt      mochnaut  /  vwch  Rrayadr/mechaia  is  koetl'  /llanerch  hvdwl 
YsTLYS  devddwr  /  gorddwr  issaf  /  ystrad  marchell 

DjYSWynaf   kaer  Einion  /  mechain  vwch  koed 
Ktdewain    kynan  /  hafren 
Kynan  kyveilioc  /  mowddwy 

RwNG    GwY    A    Hafren 
Meilientdd  keri  /  s wydd  ygre  /  Eiwlallt^  /  glyn  yeithoQ 
Elvael  vwcli  mynydd  /  is  mynydd  /  llech  ddyfnoc^ 

.Y  KLA-VVDD      dyfFryn  tsveidiad  /.S.  inogea*  /penwellt^ 
BvELLT^         S wydd  y  vann  /  S.  drevlys  /  is  lirvon' 
Ac  velly  y  kad  xiv  kantref  a  xxxx  o  gymydav 

TALAITH     DINEPWR 

KbREDI  GIO  N 

Peneddic  Gene  r  glynn  /  perfedd  /  y  krevddvn 

KANAWL  Mevenydd^  /  anhvnawc  /  penuardd 

KAsiELL*  Mabwynion  /  kaer  wedrosi" 

SiBTTERN'i  Gwinionydd  /  is  koed 

SWYDD     GaER      VY  RD  D  I  N 

IFlNloC  Hirfrynn  /  pervedd  /  is  kenenn 

Eginoc  Gwyr  /  kydweli  /  karnwyllioni^ 

BYCHAN  mallaen  /  kayo  /  maenor  deilo 

MAwR  ketheinioc  /  mab  Elvyw^^ /mab  vehdrvd  /  widigada 

B  RYC  HE  IN  10  C 

SelavI*  Sclyf  /  trahayarn 

KANAWL  Talgarth  /  ystrad  y\v  /  Eglwys  Jail 

MAivR  Tir  Rrawlff  /  lliwel  /  krvgby wel 

M  OR  G  A  NNW  C 

Kroneth^'         '^Krwng    nedd   a,    thawy  ■/  rrwng   ?(edd   ac   aven  /  tir 

.  yr  hwndrwd  /  tir  yr  "Jarll  /  maenor  glynn  ogwr 
Pbnn  ychen      Meiscyni'  /  glynn  Rroddne  /  maenor    dal    y    vann   / 

maeuor  Rvthvn 
Brenbina  WL     Kibwrn's  /  Sain  benydd  /  vwch  kayach  /  is  kayach 
GwEN  LLWC      Yr  haidd  /  kenawl  /  EithaP^  Edylygion 

GWENT 

VWCH  KOED       y  mynydd^"  /  is  koed  /  llebynydd  /  tref  y  grvc 

IS  KOED  Brynn  bvga  /  vwch  koed  /  y  teir  tref  /  Erging  ac  Evas^^ 

KOCH*  sydd  o  vynwy  hyd  yng  haer  loyw 


"  kantref  koch  y  seitlived  kantref  o  vorganwc." 


'  mechain  is  raidyr,  in  MS.  J.  B. 

^  triallallt  j  glyn  Reiddion,  in  MS.  J.  B. 

3  lleth  ddyfnoc,  in  Pen.  MS.   166  ;   and 
lie  hoddfynnoc,  in  MS.  J.  B. 

'  swyddinogion,  in  MS.  J.  B. 

5  Penwallt,  in  Pen.  MS.  14/. 

^linelh,  in  MS.  J.  B. 

7  is  hirvon,  in  MS.  147  ;  Isyronn,  in 
MS.  J,  B. 

'  mvnydd,  in  MS.  147. 

"  k'adell,  in  MS.  J.  B. 

^''  kaer  wdy,  ia  MS.  147. 

"  Hirwern,  in  MS.  147 ;  and  is  irwern,  in 
MS.  J.  B.,  which  places  it  in  Carmar- 
thenshire. 

'2  Pen.  MS.  147  reads  /turnwallon. 

y  984;!0. 


'^  MS.  J.  Brooke  reads  mab  elfydd 
"  Pen.  MS.  147,   and  MS.   J.  B. 

read  setyf. 
^^  MS.    J.  Brooke  reads  kronarth,- 

.  and  Pen.  MS.  147  reads  gyru^ 
neth 
«  omitted  in  MS.  147. 
'7  MS.  J.  Brooke  reads  meisdin 
'8  Pen.  MS.  147  reads  kibwr 
^^  Pen.     MS.      147     reads     eilhias 

elogion,   and   MS.    J.    Brooke 

eithaf  I  edlygion 
^^  MS,  147  reads  mynwy 
2'  MS.   J.    Brooke  reads   Egin    ac 

Evas,    and   MS.  147    yr  egin. 

fach 

T  T 


954  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT    163. 

Dr  VED 

Emlyn  vwch  kvch  /  is  kvcli  /  Elevethfi 

Akberth  Penrryna^  ar  elais^  /  Esge  r  olef  *  /  talacharn 
Davgleddav    Amgoed'  /  penuant  /  Efel  fifre. 

T  KOED  ILann  i  hadain  /  kastell  gwis 

Pennvro  koed  yr  haf  /  inaeaor  byrr^  /  pennvro 

Bros  HowliFordd  /  kastell  gwa^chmai  /  y  garn 

Pebidioc  myny w  /  pea  kaer  /  pebidioc 

Kemais  vwch  never  /  is  nefer  /  tref  draeth 

Ae  velly  y  kad  yn  y  dalaith  bono  xxvi  Cantref  a  Ixxviii  o  gymydav 

Tervyn  Enwav  a  Rravnao  kymydav  a  chantrefydd  holl  gijmrv 

Mify  kantrefoedd  55  ac  o  gymydav  oil  156 

61*  Goasodedigaeth  Vpfynwal  .    .     .     gorav  messvrwrvvEf     .     .     ." 

3  gronyn  haidd  yny  vodvedd  j  3t  modvedd  yn  lied  y  half  j  tair  lied  y  half  yny 

droedvedd  /  3   troedvedd  yn  y  kam  /  3  cham  yn  y  naid  j  tri  naid  yn  y  tir  :  sef  yyr 

tir  ynghymraec  newydd  grwnn  /  a  mi  lo  dir  a  vFna  milltir  See. 

63*  [Messvreu]  :  Tri  gronyn  haidd  yn  y  vodvedd  j  Tairf  modvedd  yn  lied  y 
half  I  tri  lied  y  half  yn  y  droedvedd  I  4  troedvedd  yn  y  vyriav  ac  8  ynneiav  a 
la  yny  gesseiliav  ac  16  yn  yr  hiriav  j  a  gwialen  kyhyd  ar  Jau  honno  yn  Haw  y 
geilwad  ar  ysgwr  pervedd  yr  Jstv  bono  /  yn  y  Haw  arall  iddaw  /  a  hyd  J  kyrhaeddo 
ef  a  honno  gann  hyd  J  vraich  yw  dav  Eirionyn  y  tir  =  Ued  yr  Erw  Gyfreithiawl  / 
a  30  i  hono  yw  i  byd  *90 

Pedair  Erw        ymhob  tyddyn  Y  ddivy  dref  a  ddj'Iy  vod  yn  Rraid  y  brenhia  / 

Pedwar  tyddyn         „    rrandir  vn    .  .   yn  dir  maerdref  iddaw  /  ar   Hall   yn 

Pedair  rrandir           „    gavael  ddiffaith  a  bavottir  iddaw  .  A  chymaint  ac  a 

„      gavael            „    tref  ddywedassam  ui  vcbod  yn  y  kymwd  arall  Sef 

„      tref                „    maenol  yw  bynny  o   rif  pvm  vgeintref   a  hynny  yw 

12  maenol  a  2  dref  „    kymwd  Santref  yn  Jawn  ...  sef  .  .  rif  erwi  a  ddyly 

2  gj-mwd                    „  kantref  vod  yn  y  hantref=  25600. 

Or  xii  maenawl  a  ddyly  vod  yn  y  kymwd  4  .  .  a  ddylyu  vod  yn  veibion  eillion 
f  bortbi  kwn  a  meirch  a  chylch  a  dofraeth  /  ac  vn  yn  gyngylloriaeth  /  ac  vn  yn 
vaerwni  /  ar  cbwecb  Eraill  yn  veibion  vchelwyr  Eyddion  ac  wrtb  hynny  y  dyly  y 
brenhin  westva  bob  blwyddyn  .  Sef  yw  hynny  pvnt  o  bob  vn  o  naddvnt  a  hunno  a 
rennir  .  Zx  .   ar  bob  tref  or  iiii  tref  a  vydd  yn  y  vaenawl  ac  velly  o  bedwar  ran 

""  bwy  gilydd  y  rrenir  oni  El  ar  bob  erw  or  tyddyn  i  ran  a  boa  a  elwir  y  bvnt 
dwnk  ar  gostegwr  a  ddyly  i  chyuvU   a  chymaint  a  hynny  oil  or  kymwd  arall  ac 

-.velly  y  bydd  kyflawn  y  kantref  o.k.  Jieddiw  i543 

t)5  H^yma  vynegi  am  ddi  wedd  Arthur  brenhin  y  bryttauiaid  ar 
-ybyssrwydd  a  vo  mwy  ac  eglvrach  noc  a  ddywaid  y  brut  ")  wybod 
gwirionedd  am  danaw./  Bwynt  wrthladdedigion  holl  chwedlav  a 
dychmygion  gevawc  /  Bid  adnabyddys  "]  ddarlleodrion  bod  yma 
ddav  gabidwl  wedi  ev  hysbyssv  yui  o  lyvyr  .  .  a  elwir  Dnjch  yr 
JSglwys  ....  Bid  ddiav  )  bawb  pann  yw  yniynwent  y  vynachloe 
gysegredic  ynglassynbri  wedi  gweli  anghevawl  ar  avon  gamlan 
ynghernyw  /  "]  kladdwyd  arthvr  y  Erwng  dwy  groes  faen  .... 
Bid  hynod  )  bawb  uad  oedd  na  marmor  na  maen  arall  bedd  arthurj 
namyn  )  ossod  mewn  derwen  wedir  gevaw  ai  gladdv  16  droedfedd  o 
ddyfnder  ....  ends :  hynod  y w  ac  amlwc  yam  ']  gelwir  hi  ynys  a 
phaham  avallach  .  Also  in  Pen.  MS.  147,  p.  85 

70  Gwybydded  pawb  ....  Rissiard  ^arll  arundel  .  .  .  yn  an  von 
anerch  iw  ddeiliaid  ....  Gwybyddwch  weled  a  deall  o  honam  ni 
Siartyr  yn  vrddassol  dad    ni  Edmwnt  farll  arundel  .  .  a  wDaeth§  ef 


*  See.  Ancient  Laws   .    .   .  o/ T^aZes,  Vol.  i.,  pp.  184-8.  ,    ,     „„. 

+  This  is  evidently  a  mistake  for  '•'  pedair  "  which  Pen.  MS.  147  reads  (p.  90). 
+  King  Arthur's  tomb  was  opened  by  Edward  i.,  13  April  1278.    See  Adam  of 

Do'nierham,  p.  588.  §  f  "."^  ^L^^7;  ^"• 
l  Mb- J.  Brooke  reads  y  me/uertr  ■<  esscyrobef  m  Ws.  HT . 
2  ib:  'Pem-ryn  ar  Glais  '  ¥en.  MS.  147  reads  amoged 
•' Pen.  MS  \i1  te^is  Penryn  ar  dan  "ib:   Maenor  p^r 


DIWEDD   ARTHUR,   Y   GYDVOD   ETC.  955 

iw  gyffredin  o  dir  Swydd  y  wavn  an  konffyrmassiwnj  ninav  .  .  .  , 
at  rydddeb  ac  esmwythdra  y  kyffredin  ....  drwy  gadw  yni  .  .  .  . 
■wydd  y  deilad  a  maagoed  in  kyfreidiav  yn  hvn  .  .  .  [ac]  vddvnt 
wythav  ddigonedd  a  thros  beun  .  .  .  Ki  a  ganiadassora  .  .  .  na  bo 
arnvnt  na  liawl  na  'dialedd  oblegid  tiroedd  a  gymerassant  wy  nev  J 
henafiaid,  ond  yn  diffaith  ni  o  vewn  arglwyddiaeth  y  Wavn,  heb  yn 
taniad  ni  .  .  .  .  hevyd  .  .  .  na  bo  o  hynn  allan,  gosbedigaeth  arnvnt 
am  diroedd  a  gymerassant  wy,  nev  ]  henafiaid  yn  rrydd  )  gann  yn 
meibion  eilliou  ni,  on  tir  kaeth  ni  drwy  gael  on  meibion  ni  y  Rhai 
bioedd  y  tir  .  .  .  ifllwng  }  tir  yr  awr  a  vynnont  achael  o  honvnt 
alwfans  yn  taledigaeth  drwy  gyfri  rresymol  o  bob  proffid  a  gymerwyd  or 
tir  &c.  .  .  .  Mastr  gr:  trevor  /  Mad:  kyflBn  /  Einion  voel  /  Einion  ap 
7  moelfrycli  /  Jer:  ap  Einion  gethin  /  Hwva  ap  far:  /  Einion  ap  D. 
Tychan  /  Mad:  llvryd  /  'Jer:  ap  Ednyved  /  Adda  goch  ap  Jevaf  /  Mred: 
ap  Edn:  gam  /  Jeva,  Uwyd  /  ac  ^eva  ap  Mad:  a  roessant  )  hinsselav  dros 
y  kyffredin 

73  0  hynn  allan  kof  am  y  pynkiav  sydd  yny  g  T  or  o  d  .  ,  .  bod  J 
bawb  7  ofyn  ar  ]  gilydd  kynn  rryvel,  ac  wedi  rryvel  oddieithr  amsser 
"Owain  a  bod  )  bawb  dir  }  gilydd  yn  rrydd  wrtb  glaim  kydfod  yn  ddi 
anghyfraith  na  fforest  na  lie  arall  na  bo  na  chwyn  na  chalyn  na 
llestair  aruo  o  gwybyddi  vod  yn  wr  o  gydfod  ....  Hevyd  oda  neb 
or  wlad  ir  llall  f  drigo  bod  arno  ddyvod  )  bias  y  dadlav  "]  ddangos  "j 
vod  yn  dyvod  ir  wlad  a  Rroddi  meicbiav  ar  ateb  )  blaid  ac  J 
arglwydd  a  hynny  kynn  penn  y  pythefnos  dan  bwys  torkydfod  &c. 

77  V  pris  a  wnaetkbwyd  yn  y  gydvod  ar  bob  peth  :\  am  varcb  ir 
perchen  hyd  ar  x'  ac  o  hynny  allan  Tyngv  o  ddav  gymydoc  iddaw  ev 
■werth  ....  am  ych  mork  am  vvwch  x"  Hoc  ych  xx*  .  .  .  davad  xv* 
am  "]  gwlau  iiii<^  .  .  .  Gafyr  xi]^  .  .  .  hevyd  am  ddodrefn  nev  drek 
-eraill  .  .  .  dandwng  y  perchen  kleddav  devddwrn  dandwng  y  perchen 
hyd  ar  x'     kledd  vnllaw  hyd  ar  vi^  viij*  &c. 

Yr  yndeintvT  honn  o  gydvod  a  wnaethhwyd  yn  ymyl  pont  gamarch  yn  y  lie  roedd 
lann  andras  oil  a  gwyrthrynion  a  mortvn  a  thri  chymwd  devddwr  pywys  Swydd y 
wavn  Swydd  y  drewen.  S.  groesosswalU  O.K.  1406  Minav  Griiff;  Hiraethoo  ai 
kopiodd  o  lyfr  Edwart  ap  D.  ap  Bdwart  o.k.  IS^S  Medi  IS. 

79  The  myrour  of  the  worlde — geometrye :  Tri  Gronynhaidd  krynion  a  Sychioa  a 
wna  modfedd  &c.  Also  in  Pen.  MS.  147,  p.  90. 

llyma  vesvr  milltir  .  .  .  Pvm  troedvedd  y  kam  kans  pan  Reto  gwr  yn  ffest  pob 
iam  .  .  vydd  5  troedfedd  a  M.  o  gam  yw  milltir  &c. 

Vol  i  gwnair  p  wy  s  wrth  yr  ystondart  xxxij  or  gronynav  gwenith  sychion 
&  gymerer  ynghanol  yflwyddyn  a  bwyssa  pwys  kenioc  ysterling  &c. 

■mewn  llyfr  print  saessnec  ymhlas  mastr  Siors  Mathe  o  vorgannwc  J  had  sydd  ar 
_y  ddolen  yma  hyd  yn  hynn  (pp.  79-80  1.  4). 

80  TLyma  y  Maim  a  gavas  koel  godeboc  "]  goron  loegr  .  .  aches 
marw  lies  yn  ddi  etivedd  .  .  .  avynno  gwirio  Edryched  y  -  .  •  hroniM 
Jtronickarwm  ....  [ar]  achos  i  kavas  Elen  verch  goel  y  frenhiniaeth 
^c.  quoth  llyfr  Hari  hen  konwy 

81  Henwe  llyfre  kyfraith  :  i,  llyfr  kyfoerth  ap  morgenair  /  2,  llyfr  Grono  val)  y 
moriddio  /  3,  Hen  llyfr  y  ty  gwynn  /  4,  Uyfr  gwair  mab  Rrvon  /  3,  llyfr  pra-wf 
ynaid.         Also  in  Pen.  MSS.  147  (p.  216),  and  169  (p.  277).     See  p.  119  mfra. 

82  Pan  oedd  krist  /  1513 /ir  aeth  hari  viii  i  firaink  ar  flwyddya 
tonno  i  doeth  'Jago  brenhin  yr  alban  .  .  i  dir  Uoegr  y  9  o  fedi  ac  i 
pwyntiwyd  maes  rrwnto  ef  ac  arglwyddi  lloegr  &c. 

83  (yr  ynine  yn  yrabesgi  ar  bechod  a  brynti 

heb  feddwl  am  gyfri  na  gorvod  moi  rho  &c,     left  unfinished 
Pages  89-93,   98-9,   102-3,   106,   108-9,  are  blank  with  fragments  on  pages  91. 
104-5,  107,  110-111. 


J  Anno  29  Edw:  iii.  §  Compare  Pen.  MS.  86  p.  151. 

T   T  2 


956  .  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   163-164. 

95  Enghjnion  ar  hen  fesure  :  Nid  wyf  drem  vchel  /  wyf  iselgaloa  ' 
Mewn  materion  dirgel  /  ni  rodiais  ond  fal  angel  &c.  .  .  .  .  ■ 
Na  ad  ir  beilch  trym  weilch  trais  y  Haw  n  /  vcha  lie  nychais 
112  Aivdyl :  Galwaf  arnat  geli  fowrnerth     ,    .    ,    , 

ich  dwylaw  kymrwch  delyn  Anon 

119  Welsh  Laws:  This  version  is  apparently  a  transcript  of  Pen, 
MS.  34,  and  the  text  is  practically  the  same  as  that  printed  in  the 
Ancient  Laws  and  Lnstitutes  of  Wales,  Yo\.  i,  pp.  218-20,  238-62  ; 
Vol.  ii,  pp.  2-12,  14-36,  40-8,  146-8,  164,  152-60,  130-44,  48-66,. 
98-lCO,  70-6,  94-6,  78-80,  174-180  1.  14  If; 

y  llyfyr  hwu  a  gynhvUwyt  or  pethev  goreii  a  oedd  yn  llyfyr  kyfreith 
inab  Morgenev.  A  llyfyr  Gronwy  mab  moriddic  / .  Ar  hen  llyfyr  y  ty 
Gwyn  ar  taf.  A  llyfyr  Gweiriin  vab  Evawn  .  Ac  ygyta  hynny.  or 
llyfrev  goreu  a  gat  yn  nevhevbarth  a  phowys  a  Gwynedd  .  Ar  Uy/yr 
hwn'a  elwir  llyfyr  prawf  yenait  Sef  yw  hynny  .  Teir  kolofn  kyfreith  a 
Gwerth  g-wyllt  a  dof  .  ac  aberthyue  vddvnt./  ....  ends:  Acydyly 
•velly  y  mach  y  vot  yn  ddiles.  ac  yn  ddi  ddadyl.ac  yn  addefedic.  gantaw 
y  vachniaeth  ac  velly  y  mae  tervyn  ar  y  gyngheussedd  honno  •  Or  bydcJ 
mach  y  ddyn  ar  dda  gan  arall  || 


MS.  1^4  =  Hen.  26B.  «  Elucidations  "  of  Howel's  Laws, 
Vellum;  about  6|  X  5  inches;  162  pages-^beginning  and  end  wanting;; 
early  xvth  century. 

,  This  MS.  is  the  J-J  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  and 
its  text  is  professedly  printed  in  Vol.  ii,  pp.  568-742,  which  is  in 
reality  taken  from  a  copy  in  MS.  278  (vide  infra).  The  orthography 
is  different  throughout. 

■  Eobert  Vanghan  stained. MS.  29B  so  unsp'ariBgIy''with'  gall  that  a'Very  coir- 
siderable  portioa  of  the  text  is  now  practically  illegible  >  even  he  eould  not  read  all 
of  it  ■nien  the  gall  was  first  applied.  Itis  fortunate  under  the  circumstances  that 
the  text  is  one  of  the  later  numerous  compilations  which  have  no  apparent  value 
except  iu  so  far  as  they  may  illustrate  changes  in, law  and  procedure  introduced  into 
Wales  during  the  xivth  century.  These  compilations  were  cast  more  and  more  in 
the  Triadic  form  as  they  were  removed  in  time  from  the  earliest  existing  MS.,  which 
has  no  Triads.  The  present  order  of  the  folios  do  not  follow  the  original  numbering 
ip  Boman  letters  as  far  as  these  can  now  be  deciphered.  The  printed  text  omits 
ipuch  that  is  in  the  MS.  apart  from  what  R.  Vaughan  failed  to  read. 

1  Tri  dcfnyd  hawl  y  fyd  Geir  a  Golwc  a  gwe[i]thret,  iTri 
Geir  ....  Geir  y  bo  gweli  tanawt  amdanaw  a  Gwallawceir  yn^Uya 
a[thauodryd]yaeth  am  lad  nev  lofc  nev  ledrat  &c. 

2  Tri  ouerbraw  fyd  a  gynnyc  dyn  ac  ny  warandewir  o  k  .  praw  ai 
Gynyko  hawivvr  y  wiryaw  y  hawl  wedy  attep  or'  amdiff.'  idi  Eil  yw 
praw  a  gynyko  amddiffynwr  wedy  attep  y  hawl  a  chav  yny  dadyl 
Trydyd  praw  ar  na  wnaethpwyt  peth  y  bo  ymhawl  amdanaw  Cany f 
anawd  yw  provi  .  y  peth  ny  bu  .  kany  bu  y  peth  ny  wnaethpwyt  «tton. 
EilTyoel'ef  a  ellir  prpui  negyfyaeth  lie  bo  Tri.fieth  ni  chyngein  yng  fe. 
praw  ar  weithret  eythyr  y  teir  hyfi  a  gwat  drof  wauffaf  fef  yw  hyny 
gwadu  hyri  a  elwit  ardelw  amdanaw  gynt  /  A  chof  wedy  brawt  ac  obry 
y  keffy  lie  may  dywedyt  am  vradwr  peth  yw  kof  wedy  brawt*  &c. 

130  Tri  echos  y  bu  da  wneuthur  k  oladin  kyntaf  yw  datkanv  yr  pab 
rac  ybotynerbyn  k  eglwyf  mal  y  dallei  hi     Eil  vn    y.ymoglyt  rac 

fym  hagyr 
(lyall  o  bawb  hi  kanys  llawer  peth  a  vyd  mown  llythyr  ny  fFerthyn 

*  Ancient  Laws  IfC,  Vol.  ii  p.  568. 


THE   LAWS   OF  WALES.  -957 

«V  klybot  jno  vo  reit  wrtliuut  Trydyd  jw  j  beri  yr  ae  gwyppo  o 
ladra  ragor  anryded  rac  lleeic  kanyf  am  liyny  y  dyvvetpwyt  yny  llyuyr  y 
neb  a  wyppo  o  ynat  teir  kolouyn  k  ar  pethev  ereiU  a  elwir  eo-wydawi 
ygueidyaeth  nac  eiftedet  Ileyc  yny  erbyn  vyth*  &c.  =    ■' 

„  ^.-■^■"T'i^  f-'i'"'/  '"''''■act  seems  to  confirm  the  hypothesis  that  in  Hotel's  Codi- 
Jication  0/  Welsh  Laujs  the  Latin  language  was  used.     Compare   the  references  to 
the  "  Latin  Booh  "  in  MS.  30  supra  j    and   Canones    WallicL  Ap    I07   &o     in 
Haddau  and  itubbs'  CohjicjV*.  >      r  ■> 

The  present  final  page  of  the  MS.  is  so  stained  and  the  writing  so  faint  that  the 
last  lines  cannot  be  given. 


MS.  165=Hen.  210.  Laws  of  Howel  ;  A  list  of  the  Shbeiffs  of 
MoKTuOMERY  to,  1644  ;  a  list  of  the  Members  of  the  two  Houses  of 
Parliament  in  1641,  &c.  Paper;  7J  X  5|  inches  ;  folios  1-187; 
written,  with  the  exception  of  the  above  lists  and  some  notes,  after  1586 
.and  before  1622. 

This  MS.  is  folioed  1-184  in  rubric,  and  was  intended  for  a  subject  index  to  the 
Vulgate.  Folios  1-123  were  so  used.  A  fresh  owner,  finding  iialf  the  MS.  left 
*lank  turned  it  upside  down  and  began  the  copy  of  the  Laws  near  the  end  fpases 
■7-117  =foliosl84i'-118'>).  '        ; 

1  Notes  of  a  sermon  :  Constantiiie  caused  things  consecrated  to 
idoUs  to  be  turned  to  godly  vses  .  So  Poules  in  London  was  first  dedi- 
cated to  Apollo,  Westminster  to  Diana  .  flamines  &  archiflamines  to 
Byshopriclcs  &  archbyshopricks,  &c. 

3  A  .^emedi  for  a.  horse  <fce. 

5  ^ix  thinges  to  be  obserued  in  reading  a  lecture,  (a)  Js  to  declare 
the  sence  (^c. 

7-96  The  Laws  of  Hoxeel:  'The  text  is  a  direct  transcript  of 
Haeleian  MS.  4353,  and  where  that  MS.  1  is  imperfect  the  lacuwie  are 
filled  in  from  MS.  GxeopateaB.  v^the  V  and  X^f  the  Ancient 
Lates  an^d.  Institutes  of  Wales.  MS.  Cleopatra  A.  xiv  seems  also  to 
iiave  furnished  a  few  readings. 

Hy«'«l  fdamab  kadell  brenin  kymry  a  wnaetli  trwy  rat  duvy  dirwest 
-a  gwedi  can  ocdd  eiddaw  ef  kymry  yni  theruyn,  nid  amgeu,  pedwar 
cantref  a  thrugain  deheubarth  a  deunaw  cantref  gwynedd,  a  thrugein 
tref  traehyrchell,  a  thrugeint  tref  Buellt.  Ac  yny  tervyu  hwnw,  nit 
geir  geir  neb  arnynt  wy  A  geir  y w  y  geir  hwy  ar  pawb,  sef  ydoedd 
"dryc  deddfeu  a  dryc  kyfreithieu  kynt  noc  ef  .  Y  kymerth  ynteu 
whegwyr  o  pob  kymwt  yng  hymry,  ac  y  due  ir  ty  gwyn  ar  Taf  Ac  a 
■oeS  o  perchen  bagyl  yg  hymry,  rhwng  archesscyb,  ac  escyb,  ac  abadeu, 
^e  athrawon  .  da  ac  or  nifer  hwnnw  y  dewisswyt  y  deudec  lleic 
■doetb^f,.  ar  vn  scolhaic  doethaf  ac  a  elwyt  Blegywryt  i  wneuthur  y 
■cyfreithieu  da,  ac  i  diot  y  rai  drwc  a  oedd  kynt  noc  ef  .  ac  i  dodl  rai 
-da  yn  eu  lie  hwynt,  a  creu  a  cadarnhau  eraill  eu  hunain  ,  Sef  a 
wnaethant,  pan  darfu  wneuthur  y  cyfreithieu  lynny,  dodi  emelltith 
duw  ac  yn  y  gynulleidfa  bono,  ao  vn  gymry  benbaladyr  ar  y  neb 
a  torrei  y  cyfreitheu  hynny  ....  ends  :  Tri  dyn  ni  ddylyir  eu 
gwerthu  o  cyfreith  :  Ueidr  cyfaddef  am  bo  gwerth  pedeir  ceinhawc 
■cyfreith  yni  law;  a  chynllwynwr  a  bradwr  arglwydd  .  Tri  da  dilis 
difach-ysydd,  da  a  rotho  arglwydd  i  wr  ac  a   ddel  iddau  ynteu  gan 


*  Vol.  ii  p.  656. 

t  The  a  is  formed  by  a  dot  in  the  upper  loop  of  the  ■nritten  character. 


'•^■SS  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPTS   165-166. 

gyfreith.  A  da  agaffo  gwreic  ei  gwr  pan  gytio  ynteu  a  gwreic  arall  yn 
ei  hwynebwerth.  —  a  da*|| 

98  '  I  had  boeth  money  and  a  frinde '  &c. 

b.  The  dates  (1622,  1626)  of  the  birth  of  two  (laughters  of  Eobart 
Jaspar  (in  his  autograph). 

^  «  Notes  taken  forth  from  the  writings  of  Radolf  Higden  moncfc 
ol  Chestr  concfrninge  our  Brytish  hystorie  " 
106'a  Recipes  in  English. 
108-117  A  Skeleton  Calendar  in  Latin. 


The  MS.  is  here  reversed. 

Folios  i  &  1-1231-  A  Subject-Index  to  the  Vulgate.    The  references 
are  mostly  confined  to  Genesis  and  Exodus. 

On  spaces  left  blank  by  the  original  scribe  the  following  entries  are  in  the  hand 
cf  Robert  Jaspar,  "baptized  1601." 

Folio  l'.  My  sines  are  Like  the  haire  vpon  my  hede  &c. 
3''.  Remedies  for  a  horse. 

6''.  A  memorandum  re  Humphrey  ap  Williams  wife  dated  1629. 
Y"-.  Mem.  that  it  was  "  Jully  15  .  .  1626  when  J  did  see  Tho:  Kyfin  Takinge 
possesion  Ja  a  Leson(?)  this  side  Sweene  " 
36'".  Gwen  Euans  "  vters  her  mind" 
46.    Why  howe  now  maid  what  is  thy  humor  .... 

In  England  heere  or  an^  place. 
59''.  Robt.  Jaspar  was  baptized  June  10th  1601.    Tru  Copie  out  of  the 
Register  Booke  Gyll  Fild  ....  The  age  of  my  children  &e. 

Fol.  62.  At  Wnfre  ap  T.  o  Tyrmyneche  J  ofynffon  J  Edw:  lloyd  or  vn  dref. 
Pob  Serch  bobe  anerch  bobe  Jnion  fwynder  .... 
J  fyned  at  Ryw  feinir  per  me  Robt.  Jaspar  1624 

79.  A  true  Jnventoriof  the  goodes  Catells  and  chatells  of  Ro:  Gr:  of  Tynnynech. 
Fol.  85''.  Rwtw  i  yn  Corchymyn  y  ty  yma  ar  Twlwith  ar  dynion  ar  tae  Tan  y 
Corchmynion  fell  J  CorcAmynoth  Maire  wen  J  feder  &c. 

Fol.  9''.  Richard  Harbet  miles  |  William  Harbet  of  Troy  miles  &c. 

Fol.  58''.  John  hawtray  gives  the  acreage  of  the  fields  of  Tyddyn  y  Berth  ddyw.  . 

Fols.  39-42'',  The  names  of  all  the  Shiriffes  that  erer  were  in  the  Counti  of 
Momitgomry  Sithens  Shire  groTnde.     [The  '  ynder  Shiriffes '  are  given  in  a  second 

column  throughout.]      Humffrey    Lloyde   of  Leighton   Esquir  bis ends. 

S'  Aithyr  Blayne  bee  was  shiriffe  1644  when  Mountgomry  Castel  and  Red  Castel 
was  goten  by  y"  parliment, 

Fol.  108.  The  names  of  Dvkes  marquesses  and  Earles  that  sit  in  parliment  1641. 
George  villen  D :  m :  E :  of  Bvckingam  ....  ends  :  Francis  Seymor  Lord  Seymor 
of  Trowbrig. 


MS.  166  =  Hen.  173.  Extracts  of  Welsh  Laws  and 
Pleadings,  and  a  List  of  the  Cantreds  and  Commotes  of  Wales. 
Paper ;  8|  X  5|  inches ;  pages  3-1 14,  xvith  century  ;  half  bound. 

The  MS.  is  imperfect  at  the  beginning  and  in  many  places  in  the  body  of  the 
work.  The  tops  of  pages  3-14  are  more  or  less  torn  or  nibbled  off,  and  the  top  outer 
corners  of  pages  15-24.    There  are  two  distinct  hands,  and  a  few  entries  in  other 
hands. 
I    The  name  of  7ohn  Dee  occurs  on  p.  35,  &  of  Medd  R'  ap  ho'  ap  Md.  on  p.  25. 


*  A  leaf  is  torn  out  here,  but  it  is  certain  the  transcript  of  the  Laws  was  never 
completed.  Further  on  in  the  MS.  there  is  a  kind  of  subject-index  (with  references) 
to  the  Laws  which  are  in  a  hand  resembling  that  of  Dr.  John  Davies. 

t  A  considerable  proportion  of  these  folios  are  imperfect,  the  blank  parts  having 
teen  torn  out.    Many  others  are  missing. 


THE   LAWS   OF   WALES.  959 

3-19.  o  orwlat  yr  lljs.  Ac  y  dyscii  kyfreitheu  a  gosorledigaeth 
y  brenhin  .  Ac  arveroed  .idevodau  a  berthynont  vrLli  awdurdawt  . 
Ac  yn  bennaf  teir  colofyn  k' .  a  gwerth  hoH  anyueileit  doft\  Ac  eraift 
ewyllt  aarverho  dynyonohonunt .  ac  ywaraiida6  hawlwyr  ac  amdifEynn- 
Oyr  mywn  dadleueu .  ac  y  vot  y  gyt  ag  ygneit  wrtli  roddi  barnnav . 

ac    y    -wrandaw     amrysoneu Tair    fordd    i    dos- 

perthir  bra-wd  gyngaws   kyntaff  yw  drwy  oddeff Trydydd 

yw  brawdwr  biav  dosparth  rwng  deyddyn  y  gynghaws  am  y  varn  a 
rodyssai  ryddynt  heb  ymwystlaw.  See  Welsh  Laws  Vol.  i.  pp.  370 
1.  18  to  374  1.  15,  468  to  480  1.  3,  588-592. 

20-26,  33-114.  The  text  of  these  pages,  with  certain  exceptions,  corresponds 
practically  with  portions  of  pages  306-94  in  Vol.  ii.  of  the  Laws. 

22.  Eodri  Mawi-  and  Gwriad  slain  in  877 ;  "  Alfred  king  of 
England  turned  the  Laws  of  Wales  into  English  from  Welsh."  Alfred 
died,  and  Mervyn  ap  Ehodri  was  slain  in  901.  Kadell  ap  Ehodri 
died  in  907,  Anarawd  ap  Ehodri  in  913andHo\^el  E)a.ap  Kadell  in  948. 

Oed  krist  pannaethbwyd  deuddec  kyfreth  1298  .  .  .  y  burned 
vlwyddyn  ar  rrvgen  or  dernas  Edward  i — Eoger  Mordmer  ap  EafE 
Mordmer  ap  Eoeser  M.  ap  hew  Mordmer  ai  gwnnaeth  /  yn  ir  amser 
hwnno  vn  vrvdyr  o  says  aeth  ac  nv  wvddayd  v  kymrv  bedd  a  ddweday  v 
says  ac  ny  wyddayd  y  says  bedd  y  ddeweday  yr  kymrv. 

27-32.  [lL]yma  mal  i  rrannwyd  ac  i  messvrwyd  ac  i  rrivwyd  kan- 
trefoedd  a  cbymydev  hoU  gymrv  &c.  as  in  Pen.  MS.  163,  q.  v. 

35.  Eyf  vn  vlwyddyn  ar  bymthec  or  man  y  bych  i  vwrw  can 
mlynedd  vn  llythyren  y  byd  y  sul  yna  ac  y  mae  hediw.  A  table 
accompanies  the  above. 

111.  The  following  entry  is  rather  startling  : — 

Mil  a  thrychant  a  pheder  blyneth  ar  thee  oedd  oedran  Crist  pan  vv 
varw  Edward  o  gaer  narvon  ac  yn  amser  hwnnw  yddoedd  howel  dda  yn 
gnewthwr  kyfFraidd  yn  y  ty  gwyu  ar  da  .  ("  nid  gwir  "). 

113.  Pan  yttoedd  oydran  crist  1317  i  kavat  llaswyr  vair  ac  .  .  .. 
i  mae  trygaint  diwarnod  maddeyant  er  pob  Ave  maria  kc. 


MS.  167  =  Hen.  432.  The  Laws  of  Howel,  mostly  in  Latin- 
Paper;  7|  X  0  inches;  folios  11-61  with  7  blank  folios  at  the  ends ; 
beautifully  written  by  Eobert  Vaughan,  but  the  whole  MS.  is  in  a 
brittle  state,  due  partly  to  damp  and  partly  to  some  chemical  in  the  ink ; 
sewn,  and  kept  in  a  case. 

This  MS.  is  a  direct  transcript  of  Eawlinson  MS.  C.  821  in  the 
Bodleian  Library. 

Folios  11-61.  Ijequii  cii  aseenderit  et  cu  descend erit  de  ospicio  ad 
ospiciu  suu  ducat  equ  regis .  de  pullis  pCrde  viri  habebit .  Filia  eius 
eicut  bart  teulu  .  ebedi6  eius  est  x.  sol*  .  [Hlostiarij  talami  refugiii 
usq'  ad  portariii  9.  h.  Saraed  eius  %  galanas  sicut  hostiarij  aule  .  terra 
sua  libera  habebit  et  equu  suii  iugiter  a  rege,  S6ytocgyon  libere  possiit 

aula  %  talamu  intrare  1  coquina ends  .   De  homicidio 

ante  quod  fit  cynllOyn  vel  mum,  ut  abscondere  cadaver,  vel  occidere 
homing,  sine  vulnere  furtim  in  nocte  duplex  iuramentu  dabitur,  si 
neeetur  Si  vero  reddetur  duplex  redditio  ta  regi  pro  dirOy,  qua 
gentibus  pro  saraed  t  galanas  .  Si  quis  negaverit  fnrtii  vel  alFeitheu 
iuramentu  .  1  .  hominu  dabit .  Sic  de  treis,  1  de  creith  cyhotyaOc,  et  de 

*  See  Jiawl.  C.  821,  pp.  29  /.  12-173. 


960  PENIAETII   MANUSCRIPTS    167-168. 

tor  gwarche  quod  fit  furtim  vel  violenter .  Si  quis  saraed  sine  sanguine 
vel  cleis,  vel  anaf  negaverit  solus  contra  solu  iurabit .  Si  vero  saraed 
hominis  ut  dicitiir  uxore  eius  abuti  negabitur  iuramento  quinquaginta 
bominuni  negetur  . 

Explicit  ediotua  legibus  liber  benefictua 
Quern  regi  scripsit  Blangoridus  quoq' fixit 
Howeli  turbae  doctor  tunc  regis  in  urbe 
Gomando  cano  quo  iudice  cotidiano 

Gornertb  lOycl  mab  GOyberi  bach  erat  index  curie  de  Dinewur  in 
tempore  Hywel  Da'ut  predictum  est  in  versibus . 


MS.  168  =  Hen.  MS.  437.  The  Wonders  etc.  of  the  Island  of. 
Bbitain  by  Sir  John  Powys;  the  Statuxe  of  Griffith  ap  Kynan  ; 
British  HiSTOnr  compiled  by  ?  Roger  Morys,  and  English  History 
by  Howel  ap  Sir  Mathew,  Paper;  7j|  X  5f' inches;  245  folios,  in 
good  condition ;  written  in  1589-90  by  Roger  Morys  of  Koed  y  Talwrn, 
in  the  parish  of  ILanvair  Dyffryn,  Klwyd  ;  in  limp  vellum. 

Tbe  name  of  Lewis  Ou>eH.A.M.^  Wqeiifac^  occurs  inside  front  cover,  and  tjjst  of 
Thomas  Wynn  outside  end  cover. 

1   Kyutaf  henu  a  vii  ar  yr  ynys  honn  oed  Albion  .  .  .  .  o  henu 

Albion  verch  Danaus  val  y  dyuaid  Ovyd ends  :  Guedi  hynny 

y  goresgynnod  Briitus  yr  Ynys  .  .  .  .  o  dechreii.  byd  hyd.  pann  doeth 

i  bii  3161  o  vlynydoed o  dechreii  bvd  hyd  pann  gymerth  Crist 

gnaud  5199.  '         . 

Then  follow,  as  in  Pen.  MS.  163  (pp.  1-56),  Gosodiad  yr  ynys  etc.,  but  ending 
with  these  words  :  — 

Fiiiito  libra  sit  laus  et  gloria   Christo     Qui  leget  emendet  scriptorem, 
non    reprehendel      Quoth    Sr    John    Pouys    Anno     Domini    1514  •/ 
descript:'ISS9^Mense  Decembri 

SP  Status  Gruphyd  ab  kyrian :  Lyma  y  saul  ymae  rhyd  vdynt 
glera  /  gur  urth  gerd/gur  atiafus  .....  ends:  Ac  o-bruysga.  ynn  y 
uled  coli  i  rod. 

33  Henuaeii  .niij  0  brif  geinyhiaii  a  unaeth  Kyhelyn  a  Chydugan : 

Krechuen  veinir  /  Eiirlaes  goeden  &c.  .  ii  set .  Eurai  gouyd  &o. 

SSb  Henuau  iv  goslec  herd  dmmeii :  Gostec  yr  halen  a  genid  urth  uasanaeth  kinio 
a  supper  yn  lys  Arthur,   (ii)  Gostec  ^.  ab  y  gof  o  benn  karrec  &c. 

34  Ni  dyly  neb  dyscu  ond  gan  athro  pencerdiaid  ....  ends :  A  bod  ar  bob 
athro  gopi  or  ordyr  honn  yu  dangos  a  |  ei  cbophau  yn  cliscyhlon  pan  delont  i  gymryd 
ei  dysc  y  graiiys  ./ 

35  Y  mod  y  nodiiyd  rhodion  i  bob  grad  urth  yr  vn  rhyu  status  : 

Khod  pencerd  y  tair  guyl  arbennic,  sef  y  Base,  y  Natolic  ar  Sulguyn  a  le  y  bo 
neithor  reiol  i  vab  vchelur  iii'  iiii'' 

Ehod  discibl  disoyblaid  ar  yr  vnrhyii  uiliae  ji'' 

Khod  discibl  ysbSs  yr  enuedic  dydiae        ,  xij'' 

Hefyd  ar  uyl  niabsant  a  neithior  ni  bo  reiol  rhod  Pencerd  vyd         xii* 
A  churs  ciera  i  discibl  discyblaid  yn  vii}'' 

Ac  i  discibl  yspas  gradol  vi* 

Rhod  Teuluiir  o  ran  iachae  boncdigion  le  y  gijypo  duyn  iach 

y  gur  ar  nraie  ao  vn  or  luythau  reiol  a  vu  yn  duyn  arfau  ij'' 

A  le  ni  vpfro  duyn  ond  vn  ai /r/ gur  ai/r/ uraio  i** 

35''  O  byd  arian  dlus  yn  gOfued  yn  segur,  neu  yn  ei  orphnysle  perthynassol . .... 
ends  :  Ac  os  rhoi  pial'ens  a  una  neu  ymimd  or  ariandlus  a  heb  alu  duyn  hynny  i  benii,. 
coli  ei  rad  ai  chuercjy^ 

40  Eij-oc  cadarn  hefyd  v.  unaeth  duy  dinas  ereil  .  .  vn  yn  yr  Alban 
neu  Brydyn  yr  honn  a  eluid  gynt  Castel  mynyd  Agned  ac  uedi  hynny 
castel  y  niorynion  ac  a  eluir  iiediu  Edynbruch  ....  ends:  A  hysbys 
yu  bod  y  luyn  Caladr  hunn  ...  a  eluir  yn  Saescnaec  Calbris  yn  estyn 


BRITISH   HISTORY    ETC.  &G1 

o  emyl  ^ork  heb  Ian  Aldrbuch  vgain  mildir,  eithyr  bod  lauer  o  bono 
hediu  uedi  ei  diosc  yn  lafurdir 

Y  mae  amrafel  rbung  lyfr  Leuys  ap  Eduart  a  hunn  ./  Hyn  iirth  Lyfr  Jo:  ap  Jeuan 
[Pen.  MS.  147]  a  dyly  bod  or  blaen  y  rhung  C.  Alclud  a  Ch.  Gaint. 

41  British  "  Historxj "  compiled  from  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth, 
Guttyn  Ouen,  Phabian,  John  Starve  and  others.  The  following 
passage  is  instructive :  Elydur  uar  .  .  .  o  hynn  hyt  at  Beli  maur  .  .  y 
bii  ynn  guladycbii  yun  vrenhinoed  .  82  .  o  uyr  vegis  y  dyueid  lyvyr 
ladin  Siephre  Monmuth  ar  hen  lyfreii  Cy?n6waec  rhai  a  droed  allan  o 
bono ./  A  chan  nad  ydiu  ef  na  huytheii  ynn  nodi  pa  aniser  na  pba  byt 
y  bii  yr  vn  o  honyrit  ynn  vrenhin,  am  bot  i  hefyd  ynn  gueled  kytneint 

0  ymravel  ac  anghytundeb  rhung  paub  o  lyfreii  Saesonic  (ar  adarjennais 
i)  ai  gilyd,  a  chymeint  kyveiliorn  ynn  ei  plith  buy  ,  am  y  brenhinoed 
bynny,  vegis  na  chytgordiant  a  buy  ebiinain  nac  a  neb  aral  yr  vn  or 
daii,  nac  am  benuae  y  brenhinoed  nac  am  hyt  yr  amser  y  guladychaud 
yr  vn  o  nadynt  eithyr  y  bod  ol  ynn  yscrifennii  bassio  ar  ael .  200  .  ,  .  neii 
ynghylch  186  .  mlyned  val  y  dyueit  Phabian  ....  Can  byny  y 
ganlyn  vy  Audiir  i  .  ,  .  Siephre  M.,  mi  a  roda  benuae  y  brenhinoed 
bynny  y  laur  val  y  gadaucd  ef  huy  ynn  yscrivennedic  ac  y  kymreiguyd 
buy  .  .  .  er  nad  ydiu  gredaduy  genyf  vod  kyniver  o  vrenhinoed  a  hynnv 

01  ynn  ol  ar  ynys  Brydein  ol  meun  kynn  vyrred  o  amser  .  .  ./  Achan 
na  uela  fi  dim  tiled  guirioned  ynn  y  lyfreii  Seisnic  mi  a  roda  y  laur  ynn 
vnic  yr  amser  y  biiant  vegis  yr  yscrivennaud  Guttyn  Ouein  .  o  ba 
audiirdaud  nis  gunn  i  ouyt  tybieit  mai  o  ryu  hen  lyvyr  kymeraec 
kyphelypacb  y  uir  nar  rhai  Saesnec  a  uelais  o  ben  a  neuyd  ./  ueithiau 
at  y  matter./     (fol.  SS-SS"-')   . 

Brytaen  oreu  or  ynyssed  yr  hon  a  eluid  gynt  y  uenn  ynys  &c. 

Aeneas  ysguyduyn  guedi  darvod  ymladeii  Troya  a  distryu  y  gaer  a 
pboes  ac  A.scaniiis  i  vab  gyd  ac  ef,  ac  a  d,pethant  ar  longav  hyd  yngulad,. 

yr  Eidal  (yr  honn  a  eluir  yr  aur  bonn  gulad  Eufain) i  gefn 

a   droes    CcFsar   drau  j  oi   tiroed  guedi   tiriau  .  .  .  .  yr   oedynt  ynn, 
ynys  Prydein  28  o  Phlamieit  ynn  guneiithiir  anrbyded  ir  GaiidUuiett 
a  tbair   oedynt   hefyd   o   Ar'chphlamieit  rieu  Prif  Demlaeii   .  .  .  ac, 
ynn  y  le  .  .  Escobion  [ac]  Arcbescobiou    (fol.  121'')  ....  Harri  ii 
[guedi]    edrycb  liol   vreintiaii    a    Siarteraii   .   .   ynys   Vydryn    (124) 
.....  ends:  yna  y  cavas  Antoniiis  Basianiis  y  dyriias  ar  vrenhiniaetb 
druy  berth  y  Brytaniet  .  .  .  Papiuianiis  .  .  oed  ur   or  gyfreitb  mor 
gyfion  ac  y   bydei  uel  gantho  vyned  meun  perigl  am  ei   hoedyl  nac^ 
aradipbin  drigioni  matter  dipheith  ynn  erbynn  kyduybod  (126'') 
followed  by  3  blank  folios 
129^  Y  sum    cyfa  o   rent    bluydynaul  a  dogned  ar  vonachlogyd   a 
thai  crefyd   Loegr   a     Chymru  '.  '1350450"  /  14=    /  2^   .   ob.   45.    ai 
rbifedi   oed  .6811    .  ar    Siaunteris   oed   o    rifedi  .  2356    .    ai    dogyn 
rbeut  neu  ardreth  oed  122261^  jg'  iQd  / 

130-65  A  genealogical  table  with  continuous  memoranda,  beginniug 
with  Adam  and  Eve,  and  continued  down  to  the  children  of  Edward  iiii. 

Oed  lessil  pann  iinaethpuyd  y  lyfr  hunn  1480  .  y  dyd  diuaethal  0  vis  Hydref 
i  gorphenuyd  drily  'uaith  Gruph:  Liiyd  ab  Madoc  ab  Dauyd  ac  u  orphenuuyd  i 
gopio  0  lau  yr  audyr  ehun  ir  lyfr  neii  I  r  I papiif  yma  y  .18  .  3lai  .  1590. 

178-237  A  History  beginning  with  the  sons  of  Noah  ...  the 
children  of  Jupiter  .  .  .  Saul  ap  Kus  .  .  .  Laomedon  .  .  .  Brutiis, 
•with  the  usual  British  kings,  taken  from  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  but 
"chronologically"  arranged.  Next  comes  the  "tribe  of  woden " 
(fols  189-98),  and  the  kings  of  England  follow  naturally  those  of  the 
Saxon   heptarchy.     There  is  nothing  noteworthy  in  ibe  history  of  the 


962  PENJAKTH  MANUSCRIPT   168. 

English  kings  till  we  come  to  the  siege  of  Boulogne  in  15-14.    The 
author  was  present  and  gives  many  particulars  as  an  eye  witness : — 

o.  k.  1544  .  .  .  i  danvoned  lu  i  Phrainc  ac  i  daiith  y  brenhin 
ehiin  yno  .  .  .  y  14  .  dyd  o  vis  Gorphena  id  aiith  o  Dofyr  i  Galais 
ar.  IS'i^  o  Galais  i  Vorgeissya  ac  yno  i  campiod  nosuaith  ar .  16« 
urth  Vulen  ac  yno  i  campiod  ar  dii  /r/  Gogled  ir  dref  ar.  17«'' 
jarl  Supholk  a  rod  saud  urth  dre  Vulen  ar  dii  Duyrain  .  Ar  28*'" 
or  mis  ir  enniluyd  yr  ould  man  noi  /  r  /  uaets  tour  .  / 

Yr .  IP"  o  vis  medi  i  rhoed  a  larum  urth  y  dref  ar  castel  aeth 
ynn  drylie  gan  deiinau  bariled  o  boudur  gunn  a  roessid  dano  ai 
gerric  a  ladod  guyr  a  meirch  vildir  a  banner  o  diurth  y  dref  ac  o 
gumpas  ac  ni  bii  vychan  y  druc  a  unaethont  i  baub  yn  amgylch  y 
dre  .  T  1 3*'=  or  vn  mis  i  kunkueriuyd  tre  Vulen  ac  i  henniluyd  ac  o 
drugared  y  brenhin  i  kafas  guyr  y  dre  gennad  i  vyned  bag  an 
bagaets  ac  vely  i  hymydoussont .  / 

Y .  14^'=  dyd  o  vis  medi  i  hagored  pyrth  y  dref  ar  dri  ar  y  gloch 
guedi  banner  ac  yno  i  dechreiisson  dyfodalan  achyd  yn  saith  ar 
y  gloch  or  nos  i  pyrhaesson.  Ac  yno  ir  oed  o  uyr  a  guraged  a  meibon 
a  merched  4000  .  ac  o  hynny  1500  .  ynn  abl  i  ymlad  a  chanthiin  ir 
aeth  a  ajyssont  i  duyn  ai  kephyle  ai  guarthec  ac  a  alen  i  duyn  ar 
brenhin  a  roes  vdiin  o  nerth  i  duyn  i  heido  ganthiin  .  75  .  guagen 

Y  .  1 5"=  0  vis  medi  ir  aeth  y  brenhin  gyntaf  i  dre  Vulen  ai  hoi 
uyr  o  Stad  gid  ac  ef  ac  ynn  y  siurne  honn  ir  oedun  i  JIo uel  ap 
Sr  Matheu  yn  vn  yn  gueled  hynn  ac  ynn  i  uybod./ 

From  1544  to  1557  the  notes  are  fuller  and  deal  particularly  with 
the  ecclesiastical  events  of  the  time,  especially  in  the  opening  years 
of  Queen  Mary.  The  author  is  evidently  a  fervid  Roman  Catholic. 
He  is  also  a  bard  but  it  is  curious  that  he  makes  no  mention  of  any 
of  his  contemporaries ;  and  though  a  weather  vane  cannot  fall  from 
the  top  of  St.  Paul's  without  his  notice,  yet  he  chronicles  no  single 
event  relating  to  Wales,  unless  the  following  be  an  exception  : — 

Pan  oed  o.k.  1540  .  yr  28  .  dyd  o  vis  Gorphennaf  Thomas  Cromuel 
JarJ  Essex  ac  argluyd  Water  Hungerphord  a  dorred  i  penne  ynn  y  Tur 
hyl  am  dresson  .  Ac  oni  bai  vynny  o  diiu  hynny  e  drigse  Richard  ap 
hoel  esqiiier  a  Sersiant  "of  arms  a  Sion  Loyd  raab  Dd  ap  hoel  dii  gur 
bonhedic  a  Hoel  ap  S""  Matheu  prydyd  a  gur  g'.  a  deiidec  ychuaneo  o 
uyr  dyphryn  Tyveidad  am  ovyn  i  kyfraith  ac  yno  i  gunaeth  Hoel  y 
daii  Englyn  hynn 

nid  aun  tut  on  kiit  nim  kar  /  Diiu  Jessii    .... 

nid  oes  vod  Diiu  sy  vydar 
A  phan  darfii  am  Gromuel  buru  i  diiu  glowed  ynn  guedie  a  chanu 
val  hynn  ido  ehiinan 

Na  doued  vned  anyn  /  ond  iiyd  vedu 

vod  diiu  /  n  /  vydar  Hulyn 

nid  yu  vydar  diiu  voiidyn 

nac  yu  e  glyu  diiu  bob  dyn  (fol.  226) 
This  History  is  brought  down  to  the  year  1557  only,  though  it  was 
not  begun  apparently  till  1568—0  Grist  hyd  hediu  1000  a  5iX)  ac  68. 
Ac  o  dechreu  yr  byd  hyd  hediu  i  mae  6910  .  mlynetj  (fol.  178). 
This  text  is  a  transcript  of  the  original,  and  occasionally  there  is  a 
change  from  the  first  to  the  third  person  in  the  text. 


HISTORY,   GRAMMARS   ETC.  963 

MS.  169.  Welsh  Grammars,  Vocabdlabies,  Dosparth  Kerb 
Dant,  the  EiSTEDVOD  of  1523,  its  Graduates,  etc.  Paper; 
6x4  incbts  ;  372  pages  ;  many  blank  and  some  gall-stained  ;  in 
the  autograph  of  Roger  Morjs  (p.  206),  written  partly  in  1588  (p.  205) 
and  partly  earlier;  in  beach  boards  (uncovered). 

"Found,  built  up  in  a  wall  at  Cadwgan,  and  giTen  to  me  by  T.  LI  FitzHueli 
Esq"  of  Plas  Power,  Christmas  1874  or  Jan.  1875.     W"  W.  E.  Wynne." 

This  MS.  has  on  its  front  board  a  label  like  that  on  all  the  Hengwtt  MSS.  but 
only  the  final  figure  of  the  "  No  "  viz:  6,  can  now  be  read.  ' 

The  scribe  had  not  yet  adopted  the  system  of  underdotting  e.  d.  1.  a.  for  the  usual 
ch.  dd.  11.  -w.  when  he  wrote  Pymp  llyvyr  herddwriaeth,  and  the  Vocabularies 
(excepting  many  additions).  Pages  1-136,  207-46,  359-63  are  therefore  earlier 
than  1588.  The  hand  of  Sir  Thomas  Wiliems  occurs  frequently  in  the  Vocabulary 
part  (pp.  220,  246,  271,  &c.).  There  are  also  entries  in  several  other  hands 
throughout  the  MS.,  but  the  first  120  pages  are  particularly  disfigured  by  under, 
scorings  and  marginal  key-words.  One  Robert  Edwards  seems  to  have  done  his 
share  (p.  118).  Ityfr  a  ysgrifenodd  Gr:  hiraythog  o  /  gronigl  a  therfynav  trefl  a 
mannav  kymrv  ar  diroedd  ag  a  adawodd  ymanacMog  Hanegwest  wrth  lan{gollen\ 
ag  gadd  Dafvdd  Mathew  wynn  [o]  drevor  yno  yr  hwn  y  pioedd  r//**»*  ar  llyfr 
hwn  sydd  yr  owran  e[iddo]  *  »  agwyr  Sion  ap  Hvw  ap  Howel  o  benant  ydeirnion 
*  •  *  *  Hobert  Vaughan  »  *  *  *  (p.  254). 

1  Pymp  llyfr  herddwriaeth.  The  text  of  pp.  1-75,  87-103,  119-36 
corresponds  with  pages  10-81,  99-120,  127-47  of  Simwnt  Vychan's 
Grammar  (Jesus  College  MS.  9  =  xv)  of  which  it  is  a  copy.*  Tages 
107-8,  111-3  of  the  one  agree  also  with  pages  120-25  of  the  other. 

76  Edyrn  davod  avr  oe  gymhenddoeth  ethrylythr  Ac  afrifedrwydd  Athraweth 
ac  awdvrdod  i  davod  i  hvn  :  A  roddes  awdvrdod  i  bob  tavod  ar  a  fai  athrwaeth 
arnaw  i  ossod  dosbarth  ar  y  llythyrenao  Ac  ar  ymadroddion   :   Ac  yw  gossod  mewn 

kyvleoedd  dyledvs 18  Uythyren  kymraec  y  ssydd  ...A:B:D:fE:J; 

K  :  &c.  .  .  .  chwech  bogal     A  :  e  :  1  .  o  :  v  :  y  :     Ar  Uythyren  hon  /  wi  /  .  .  .  . 

Dyweter  bellach  am  yr  arwyddion C  nid  arwydd  ssymvdedic  yw  :  Ac  nid 

llythyrenn  /  kans  henwedigaeth  dwy  lythyrenn  y  mae  hi  yn  ddwyn  nid  amgen  : 
S  :  i  =  Si  &c. 

137  A  transcript  of  a  part  of  the  pyelsh  Grammar  in  the  Red  Book 
of  Hergest  (cols.  1117-40).  Pedeir  lythyren  arugeint  kymraec  yssyd 
nit  amgen  A.b.c.d.e.f.g.h.i.k.l.m.n.o.p.r.s.t! 
u.x.y.d.u.l.  Haith  o  honiint  yssyd  vogalieit  .  .  .  A  .  e  .  i  . 
o  .  u  .  y  .  u  .  ar  lail  ol  yssyd  consonanieit./  Bhai  or  consonanieit  ysyd 
banner  bogalieit  ..l.m  n.r.s.f...  ends  :  Rbieni  a  volir  o  bryt 
a  theguch  .  .  Ac  idi  y  perthyn  serch  a  chariat  ac  yn  vn  ued  a  hynny  y 
molir  mab. 

159  Pan  vo  y  rhung  duy  lythyren  daud  val  y  mae  mydyr,  mygyr  &c. 

163  t  Welsh  Grammar :  Pa  saul  rhan  ar  iaith  y  syd  ?  /  uyth  ./  nid 
amgen  Henu  Rhachenu,  Berf  Rhagferf,  Parth  a  chyssult,  Ardodiat,  a 
Thafliat .  /     Fa   saul  vn   a  dreiglir  o  honynt  ?  /     Peduar  .  .  .  Henu, 

Rhaghenu,  Berf  a  Phanh Beth  yu  Henu  ?     Rhan  dreigledic 

ar  iaith  yuac  a  dreiglir  druy  vn  genedl./  .  .  .  ends:  Peduar rhac  henu 
y  syd  a  dylyaut  vod  ynn  hennueii  gueinieid  .  nid  amgen  henu  dygedic  oi 
vlaenor  val  y  mae  yr  hunn  /  henu  gofynnedic  val  y  mae  puy  /  henu 
dosbarthedic  val  y  mao  vn,  rhai  /  Henu  anherfynedic  val  y  mae  puy 
bynnac .  /  Tervyn. 

llyfr  Thomas  ap  Jvan  o  hendre  forfydd  yr  hwnn  a  sgrifenodd  vn 
Roger  morys  o  goed  y  talwrn  yn  llanfair  dyffryn  klwydX 

*  "0  lyfr  S.  V."  (p.  364).  "O  lyfr  M'  Langfford  (p.  84)"  =  Jesus  College 
MS.  9  =  XV,  "  Ex  douo  Eogeri  LangfiFord." 

t  Apparently  this  is  a  transcript  of  Dwned  Guttyn  Owain  in  the  Collection  of 
Sir  John  Williams,  Bart.,  M.D.     SeeMostyn  MS.  110,  p.  71. 

%  This  is  in  »  slightly  later  hand,  and  obliterated  by  heavy  black  scorings,  but 
the  reading  is  practically  certain.  Mostyn  MS.  135  is  in  the  same  hand,  and  also 
belonged  to  Thomas  Evans. 


964  PENIARTH  MANUSCEIPIS.   169-170. 

ILtma  hen  gymraec 

207 'Henitaii  duw  dad  tri  pherson  .j  Ei  Eiav  Eiawdr  &c. 
//.  Arglwydd :  Eiawdr  ./  Dovjdd  /  Peryf  &c. 

208  H.  Brenliines :  Eiain  .  bvn  .  banon  .  &c. 

H.  tarian :  Blawdd :  baran  .  Twrf  .  Aesawr  .  ysgwyd  &c. 
IT.  Brwydr :  Aer :  garthan  .  bragwad  .  Armes  &e. 
H.  gwayw :  Par  .  onnenn  .  ongar  .  Eaidd  Ac.  ' 

209  H.  kleddeii:  kadtkno  .  kledd  .  kledrenn  .  Uain  &c. 
H.  arfau  am  wr :  Aktwcn  .  Uvryc  .  haprsiwn  &c. 
H.  haner.  Ystondart  .  Penwn  .  llvman  .  fflaw 
H.pob  tec:  llywy  .  trwn  .  gloyw  .  glwys  .  erddrym  &c. 

//.  Haw :  Angad:  palf  .  Adaf  .  neddair  .  asgre*  *mynues 

H.  estronn  genedl :  Eingl  .  deifr  .  brynaich  &c. 
.210  H.  gwlcdd:  Darmerth  :,ysbyddawd  ,  mestic 
,    H.  kler :  Arriad  .  glyw  :  kerddorion  &c. 
H.  giceiniaid:  Tlodion  .  ysbios  :  esbyd  .  ysb  :  osbios 
H.kynhebic:  Eisior  kyveisidr  .  Haval  ,  kyhaval 
210-344  A  Vocabulary  arranged  alphabetically.  . 

Argledrad  =  Arglwydd,,  ends:  ysguthr  =  torriad  ar  l^ren 

Aeserw  "j  yssuingbren,  =  rhisgin  i  gadii  - 

Addien  S  =  tec  ymda  =  cerdded         .  [saeti    ' 

■^sserwj  ysto  =  hcndre 

Arien  =  gwlilh  ymarial  =ymlad 

Arwyrain      "1    ^  ystre  =  kyvanned  ,     , 

Augyvodiad,/  (ynys    Lenach  .  j  .  Xnsula-, 

Adiad  =  keilioc  hwyad  ecclesiastiea    • 

■AM  =  amhevthyn  ..'..■  -.    ymarbed  ==  abstiuere)   ■    - 

347  Lyma  dosbarth  cerd  dant:.  kouair  dannaii  a  thynniadaii-     A 

rhai    o    honiint   y  syd   ueinion  ac  erail  ysycl  gedyrn ends  • 

kymysc  yu  pob  ky yair .  ai  gily^  a  Ihruy  dysc  y  mae  dosbarth  yr  lanu 
rhupg  y  kyueiriaii  .  '  ,  ,       ,      -  .     ,' 

349  XXIV  messiir  cerd  dant :  . 

Makymun  hir  =  |  I  I  |006olO|'|,|  |0000|0|  l&c. 

352  An  account  of  the  EisteSvod  of' 1523,  with  a  list  of  the  graduates 
as  in  Pen.  MS.  155. 

359  *Bellach  y  dywedwn  am  gamav  a  beiav  a  berthyn  i  gochelymhob 
kerdd  davawd ends :  Caun  fed  rhad  cynnedfau  Ehys 

A  rheidiach  yn  gochel  huunu  na/r/  lal 

0  lyfr  S\im.wni]  Vlj/chan]. 

367-70.  Additions  to  the  Vocabulary : 
Alaf  =  golvd  ....  ends :  jfng  =  kyfyngdwr. 

370-72.  Graminar  additions :  Tair  enaid  kerd/messvr  ssynwyr  a 
chynghanedd  .  henwav  kolofnav  kerdd  davawd  .  ,  y  verr  gyhydedd 
.   ...  ends:  Pann  vo  s&illdaf  ii  thair  bogail  || 


MS.  170  =  Hen.  541.  The  Booh  of  James  Jenkins 
\^Surgeon]'\.  The  History  of  Owen  the  knight,  Paul's  Vision,  and 
Medical  Eecipes.     Paper  ;  about  7^  X  5 J  inches;  106  pages — partly 


*  Pages  359-64  belong  to  the  Grammar  part  at  the  beginning  of  the  IJS. 
t  So  it  appears  from  the  fact  that  he  dissected  a  body  in  London  (pp.  61-2),  and 
practised  bone  setting  and  the  healing  art  (pp.  49-52)  somewhere  about  Cristionydd. 


A  surgeon's  note  book.  9435 

imperfect. ;  in  the  autograph  of  James  Jenkins,  who  was  apparently 
alive  in  1608  (p.  89)  ;  roughly  sewn — some  leaves  are  loose,  ftnd  pages 
66-106  run  from  the  end  to  the  middle. 

The  following  names  are  found  in  the  MS.  — John  Lewis  of  Cristionydd,  Hugh 
Lewis,  and  Edward  &  Margaret  Lloyd  (pp.  54,  64,  106,  &c.)  ;  John  Thomas 
is  the  true  honor  of  this  book  witness  by  me  Richard  Wynne,  D.  Lloyd,  Mary  Lloyd 
(p.  64)  ;  Howel  Hughes  (76). 

1  Hanes   Owen  farchog*   \\  ath  hebryngwn  di  *  »  *  *  *  i   mewu  / 

ag  ynar  march    *****  peth  yroedd  y  kythrelied  y  *  *  *  * 

daflv  yn  y  gyne  dan  ....  rrag  arwthred  oedd  yboen  hono  fo  llyngodd 

agos  dros  gof  feddwl  am  dduw  ag  yna  pan  ddyfod  fo  iessv  grist  vn  mab 
duw  byw  yna  y  difEoddes  yttan  ag  y  tores  y  rrwymav  /  ag  ni  doedd  vn 
wreichionen  yno  or  tan  mwy  no  lie  ni  biase  dan  irioed  ......  ends  : 

ymae  hyn  yn  Roi  tystioleth  i  bawb  byd  ttydd  brawd  i  gymryd  warning 
y  fyw  yny  byd  mewn  kyfiownder  ag  ofn  duw  Rag  mynd  ir  pryglav  hyny 
0  ran  i  hanwiredd  i  hvnan. 

.  27  ILyma  frevddwyd  Paol :  gwybydded  pawb  mai  i  baol  epostol  ag 
i  fibangel  y  dangoses  dvw  vddvnt  holl  bene  vffern  mewn  gweledigeth 

ends  :  i  dolwg  .  .  gael  or  pechadvriaid  orfPwys  faf  dros  dduw 

svl  ir  sawl  o  honvnt  oedd  yny  poenef  ....  mi  aroddaf  vddvnt  orffwys 
faf  o  haner  dydd  dduw  sadwrn  hyd  awr  o  ddydd  duw  llvn  er  mwyn 
mihangel  a  ffaol  ag  om  daioni  fy  hvn||| 

43  Questions  and  anstvers  :  Pwy  a  fv  farw  ac  ni  aned  irioed  Adda. 
..,,...  .  .  pam  yr  bed  Gweliav  kelain  pen  ddel  y  lladdwr  vwchi  ffen  :  am 

ladd  o  Gain  abel  wirion  i  frawd. 

44  (Jo :  Lewis  de  christionydd  parochia  ruabon  et  Ricardns  ap  John  de  denhinlle 
....  firmiter  obligari  Rioardo  ap  David  in  sex  libris  &c.  1631.) 

b.  (7  mae  meroh  7fank  ynghristionydd     ^    ,     .     , 
att  i  mam  hi  a  yw  fynegi) 

4.5  "  or  hin  " — gwyl  bawl  gwybodawl  gwybedydd  .... 
OS  gwynt  oer  helynt  ar  heolydd     .... 
a  gelyn  pawb  iw  gilydd 

46  Pregeth  Sain  paol  at  y  galathiaid  yn  y  v  Sapter  &c. 

47  Dysg  i  gyfriffvgwrs  :  1  .  2  .  3  .  &c. 

48  (shani  bach  i  rwi  yn  i  garv  &c.) 

49  Dgma  heniveX  yr  hyn  /  a  /  nevthvmi  yn  wych  ag  yn  Sownd 
1 0  I  ran  briwie  a  Roi  i  hesgyrn  yni  lief  /  ar  y  mac  kof  genifi :  am 
asgwrn—3dhn  ap  Edw:  or  wavn  ....  merch  iyfan  brydydd  .... 
gwraig  ayron  or  Wavn  .  .  .  .  g.  J.  ap  J.  dam  horgan  ....  mab  J. 
Salbri  or  hos  ....  mari  ach  J.  off  Evtyn  /  Als  ach  jthel  or  gyfelie  &c. 
(2)  am  Jriiu  g.  Tho.  y  llifwr  ...  J.  llwyd  of  is  klawd  ....  mab 

Edw:  John  y  gradellwr  ....  marged  ach  Rob:  raff Owen 

barsvtiwr  of  wrexam  /  kydymeth  Ridiart  Johns  or  pwll  glof 

53  (Och  och  maev  ynoch  ueiawen  &c.  Tho:  Amhori/s) 

55  Hyshysrwydd  pa  sol  asgwrn  sydd  yngor_ff  dyn  :  asgwrn  pen 
&c.  .  .  .  ends  :  j  mae  hyny  iw  gyfri  yn  chwech  a  devddeg  igen    gwedi 

hvnv  Y  mae  xx  o  winedd  &c 266.  -r      ,  . 

■     'hyaj  0  Ksgyrn  /  o  /  gymal  i  gymal  /  a  /  ffheindies  li  J  am  e  s  J  e  nhins  yoy 
Sersant  haol  yn  llvnden  &o. 


*  The  beginning  is  wanting,  and  the  text  is  otherwise  defective  at  the  top  corners 
of  pages  1-8,  which  have  been  torn  away. 
+  Three  leaves  have  been  torn  out  here. 
%  He  set  the  bones  of  43,  and  healed  the  wounds  of  45  persons. 


966  PENURTH  MANUSCRIPTS   170-171. 

65  i  dynabod  klaf:  kymer  ddyrncd  o  ddail  yfioled  &c. 

Recipes,  Rag  magyl  ar  lygad,  brath  neidyr,  y  pas. 
69  Henwe  llysie  enaint :  y  walwart  =  ysgaw  mail-  &c. 
^0         „         „       i  beri  blode  merch  i  gerdded :  llysier  chvvain  &r.. 

71  Bag  llosg  mellden,  briw  mewn  gevyn,  dafaden  wylki,  ychrysaint, 
a  chwydd  siktod. 

75  Henwe  dyfroedd  i  fyta  marw  gig  a,_ffowdwr  afyty  m.  g. — &c. 

77  Os  bydd  dyn  heb  glowed,  os  llysg  dyn  i  ;9iS.v,  (78)  i  dori  karcg 
mewn  chwyaigen,  (79,  81,  and  87)  heawe  llysie  i  nevthvr  oent  mant, 
(80)  Eag  k^ryddv  kymale,  a  darisg  a  gwres  ar  groen,  (82)  Rag  gwres 
mewn  wyneb,  (83)  J  ddal  vsiiv  yn  y  gored,  nol  kolli  llyferydd,  (84)  Rag 
gwendid  kefn,  (85)  metswn  m'  gref. 

88  (Edw:  ap  Tho:  ap  Symon  de  Barkas  in  Denbighshire  mortgaged  3  parcells 
of  landes  in  Corvedwen  in  the  com:  of  Dogyilin  and  lo:  of  Bydhyn  called  Itaer 
dderwen  ^ssa  vnto  Roger  Rogers  of  the  ^nner  Temple  for  the  Svm  of  xxx"  7th 
January  A°  Regni  Jacobi  tertio/  Rogeres  his  Atturney  was  Thomas  Birchinaw  &c.) 

89  Pwlsys  ydiwr  gwytheni  raowrion  &c. 

b.  D.  ap  J.  ap  Evan  llwyd  /D.  ap  J.  Edw:/  J.  ap  J.  damhorgan  ag  erill  am 
kam  brysentiodd  if  am  dir  m'  Edw.  bromffild  ag  am  dir  Edw:  ap  hvges  ap  Elis  ag 
anaeth  imi  dalv  ffin  ar  gam  fel  y  gwyr  y  wlad     1608 

90  aud  99   Trioedd :  iij  an  Esgor  meddig-glin  ag  Elin  &c. 

91  Englynion  i  ddysgv  gwnevthvr  Triakl,  a  diod  Rag  klefyd  y 
moch/  ar  plastyr  gore  isvgno  ysiktod  /  p2  Rag  kangkyr  mewn  gwddw 
dyn  /  g3  konsarf  o  flode  yr  ysgaw  ag  o  gysgadvr  ymeisydd  /  Rag  wast 
natvr  drwyf  i  hvn  /  Svrop  o  wermod  &e.  /  p^  os  bydd  dyn  ai  avf 
yn  wastiof  /  9o  Os  bydd  dyn  yn  wastiof  ai  fein  gefn  yn  oer  /  Rag 
brath  neidyr  na  Uyffant  -na  draenok  /  96  Os  bydd  dyn  ai  aylod  yu 
kysgv  /  henwe  llysie  Rag  y  gareg  ar  tostedd  / 

97  II  pto  y  gower  oer  /a/  sych  .  .  .  .  y  graith  vnos  oer  /a/ 
sych  .  .  .  karner  feb(5l  tfer  /a/  sych  ....  llysier  defed  poeth  /a/ 
sych  ....  chwys  arthvr    oer  /  a  /  sych 

100   Wngsiwn  =  oentment  Uwydwyn  /  pregaisiwn  pils  &c. 
102  Rag  derwenien  wylld,  y  kolik,  yr  anwyd,  y  morthyw 
105  Elif  anei  Uiengig  yn  wych  /ag  akwa  fifortiws 


MS.  171  =  Hen.  199.  Asthology  touched  with  Theology,  Paper; 
7J  X  5|  Inches ;  194  pages — waning  beginning  and  end  ;  in  several 
hands  of  the  end  of  the  xviith  century ;  in  old  leather  binding. 

The  following  names  occur  in  the  book:  Dav:  Pan-y  (p.  110);  Kadwalad 
Puses  his  book  &  John  Roberts  (p.  96)  ;  Hugh  Jones  his  the  True  onawr  of  his 
Book  1746 — Gr:  Roberts  his  Book  given  him  by  Hugh  Jones,  1754  (pp.  28,  144). 

Pages  1-118  are  in  Welsh,  and  121-94  in  English.  The  following  references 
sufficiently  indicate  the  subjects  and  sources. 

Lhifr  Sander  yny  v  bennod  yr  un  ffunud  a  llyfr  H.  C.  Agrippa  ag 
eraill  (p.  18)     Addusg  su  yng  waith  Peter  Albanws  (p.  6,  91  &c.) 

Hud  yma  yr  ysgrifenais  tu  ag  at  y  ffordd  blaunaf  su  ynghwaith  Peter 
Aibanws  gwelwch  wrth  yr  Element  fel  llufr  Morgan  ILwyd  natur  dun 
&c.  (p.  14). 

Yn  y  iiyfyr  cynfa  yr  hwn  yw  pedwerydd  llyfr  Agrippa  mae  yn 
adrodd     yn    dda    ddigon    ynghylch    difinyddiol    ceremoniau    .... 


MEDICINE,   ASTROLOGY,   AND   KALKNDAR.  967 

Tybiwyd  yn  dda  gan  hynny  chwanegi  attynt  ddifinyddieth  wubrenawl 
Peter  Albanus  (p.  29).  Yn  ol  barn  Gerard  (p.  22)-"  Gerard  Creaioti- 
Adami  (     ^5™"°'"''=''^  Geoinancy"  (pp.    167-79).        Scientia  patris 

There  are  besides,  72  Aphorisms  in  English  and  Welsh,  a  chapter  oq 
taking  oaths  on  the  different  days  of  the  week  &c. 


MS.  172.  =  Pen.  82.  The  Book  of  Sir  Richard  Jones. 
A  Kalendar,  Astrology,  Palmistey,  the  Interpretations  of 
Dreams,  etc.  Paper;  7|  X  5f  inches  ;  268  pages  of  which  many  are 
imperfect,  dog-eared  and  frayed  at  the  edges ;  written  by  Sir  Richard 
•Jones  in  1582*  (p.  159)  ;  sewn  in  old  vellum  covers  with  many  leaves 
loose. 

Mary  Eobetts,  1689   (p.   184)  ;  Richard  Lloyd  of  Llys  Dimnael   his  booke   1698 
(pp.  53,  129,  252)  ;  Hugh  Lloyd  his  booke  |  Jhen  Lloyd  (p.  187)  ;  Simon  Edwards 
■  his  Book,  1731  (p.  259)  ;  Simon  Roberts,  1766  (p.  250),  &c. 

1   Of  the  fair  Complexions  .  Jl  Of  the  vii  playnetes  &c. 

14  Brief  introductions  upon  y»  faces  of  ye  xii  signes  what  effect  y» 
Sonne  doth  worke  in  euerie  house  or  mansion 

21  "  Artificial  astrology  " 

25  A  compendious  descripti[on  of  the  xii  houses  of  astjrology 
mad  by  ^ohn  nidar     imperfect 

30  A  Kalesdar  :  jfonor—gwy\  St.  Antwn,  17  ;  g.  bawl  ybostol  25 
Edward  y  vi,  28.  Chwefrol—g.  Ddilvar  santes,  4 ;  g.  saint  Agath  5  , 
g.  Einion  vrenin,  10  ;  g.  ddyfnoc,  13 ;  g.  Bedyr  ebostol,  22  ;  g.  Libio 
sant,  28.  Mawrth—g.  Ddewi,  1 ;  g.  Siad  escob,  2 ;  g.  St.  Grigor,  12 
^  g.  padric,  17  ;  g.  St.  Edwart  vrenhin,  18.  Ebrill—g.  Risiart  Escob,  1 
'  g.  Uyrnoe  ac  Ambros,  2  ;  Dervel  gadarn,  5  ;  llywelyn  a  gwrnerth,  7 
g.  vevno,  21 ;  g.  sain  Siors,  23  ;  g.  Vark,  25.  JIfat— Phylip  a  ^aco,  1 
g.  y  groc,  3  ;  g.  ]ffan,  6 ;  Goddard,  9 ;  Athanasius,  10 ;  Dunstan,  19 
Helene,  20 ;  g.  Gollen,  21  ;  g.  Sain  Denis,  25 ;  g.  saint  Awstin,  26 
g.  Velangell,  27  ;  g.  Erbin,  29 ;  g.  Dvcklyd,  30.  Mehe/in—g.  Degla 
1  ;  g.  Gwyven,  3;  g.  Barnabas,  11  ;  g.  Sanian,  13;  g.  sant  Lednart 
19;  g.  wenvrewy,  22.  Gorffena — g.  Marthin,  4;  g.  Thomas,  7;  g! 
saint  y  marged,  20 ;  g.  mair  vadlen,  22  ;  g.  Anna,  26 ;  g.  y  vii 
gysgadvr,  27;  g.  Armon  yn  ial,  31.  ^iu«<—g.  bedyr,  1;  g.  Oswallt 
vreuin,  4;  g.  yr  Jessv,  6;  g.  illoc,  8;  g.  Lowrans,  10;  g.  magnvs,  17: 
g.  saint  Ebeu,  18;  g.  Bernard,  19;  g.  timothii,  20;  Tori  pen  ]ffan /. 
Awstin,  ffair  y  trallwng,  28.  Medi — g.  Silin  ap  aron,  1  ;  g.  Sulien,  2 ; 
g.  Evddlad,  4  ;  g.  Vair  pan  aned,  8  ;  g.  Ddaniel,  11 ;  g.  y  Groc,  14;  g, 
saint  Lambert,  17  ;  g.  Vwroc,  24  ;  g.  Vevgan,  25  ;  Mihangel,  29 
Hydref — g.  Silin  a  Garraon  /  g.  rvtoyrn,  1 ;  g.  Domas  o  Henfiordd,  2 
g.  Ganhaval,  5 ;  g.  Sanct  Edward,  13 ;  g.  Vihangel  vychan,  16  ;  g 
Lvk,  18 ;  g.  yr  vn  vii  ar  ddec  gweryddon,  23  ;  g.  Wynnoc  a  Noethon 
21;  g.  Ddofvael,  31.  Tachwedd — g.  yr  oil  Saint,  1;  g.  eneidiav  y 
meirw,  2 ;  g.  wenfrewy,  3 ;  g.  Gybi,  5  ;  g.  saint  Lednart,  6 ;  g. 
Gynngar,  7;  g.  Dysilio,  8  &  9;  g.  Marthin,  11 ;  g.  Gydwaladr,  12;  g. 
vrvsMS,  J  3  ;  g.  Vechyll,  15  ;  g.  Edmwnt  archescob,  16  ;  g.  Ddigain,  21 ; 
g.  Glemens,  23 ;  g.  saint  y  Kafcring,  25 ;  g.  sain  Leiui,  26 ;  g.  Gallgof, 

*  The  date  IS'S  occurs  on  p.  234,  and  i35S  on  p.  51,  and  these  dates  may  very 
well  represent  the  time  when  these  parts  were  respectively  written.  The  style  of  the 
writing  belongs  to  the  earliest  date.    Pages  1-28,  253-68  are  by  other  hands. 


968  PENIAKTH  MANUSCRIPTS   172-173. 

27  ;  g.  Sadwrn,  29  ;  g.  AnJias,  30.  Ragver — gj  Gowrda,  5  ;  g.  sain 
Nigolas,  6;  g.  Vair  pen  gad  yngroth  i  mam,  7;'^.  Lvsei,  13;  g. 
Dedecho,  17;  g.  Domas  apostol,  21 ;  g.  Stcphan  merthyr,  26;  g.  Jolrn 
Evaiigylwr,  27;  g.  y  vil  veibion,  28 ;  g.  Domas  archescob,  29. 

57  ILyfr  nalvrieth  ne  dynghedven  ar  achos  i  gelwld  ef  velly  iw 
pa  vab  ne  pa  verch  bynac  aner  o  vewn  y  xii  arwydd  ef  a  ddichon  y 

darlleodr  i  yspysv  vddvnt  i  kerdded  ai  lioedl  ai  damwynie 

ends :  a  dyced  kyda  hi  y  psalm  hon  deus  mesiriatur  vestri  a  cbadwedic 
vydd  drwy  ddvw 

Ac  Telly  i  diwedda  y  llyfr  hwn  ....  a  ysgrifened  yr  xxvlii  o  vis  Mawrth 
^  0.  k.  i5S2  ....  sir  Richard  Jqhnes  (p.  159). 

160  Y  vii  plaened  ai  pictiwrs  ,  .  .  .  Satwrniws  y  sydd  kynta  ac 
-Ycha  or  vij  yw  hi  ....  .  gwres  kyffro  peledyr  yr  havl  a  svgyn  atto 
.  .  y  gwlybwr  or  moroedd  .  .  .  a  syrth  drachefyn  i  lawr  yn  law  .... 
gwynt  &  oWjngiv  or  gogofav  kevon  or  ddaiar  xii  gwynt  y  sydd  .... 
y  brenin  tholomews  ag  .  .  .  alfraganvs  a  ddoweit  vot  yn  vwy  y  seren 
liaf  yn  y  furfafen  nor  h(jll  ddaiar  &g,       .    .     ■  = 

203  JLyma  ddangos  kyloh  y  ji/agneffev ;  kyutaf- ywr  lleyat  a  Ileiaf 
or  vii  yw  &c. 

206  Yr  awr  gynta  i  bob  dydd  or  wythnos :  Sol  sef  yr  havl  asydd 
arglwydd  ar  yr  awr  kyntaf  ddvw  svl  /  ar  Uevad  yr  awr  kynta  ddvw 
llvn  &c. 

213  ILyma  lyfr  awnaeth  elis  dotli  s  ir  brenin  all  s  awnder 
mawr  i  ydnabot  pob  dyn  wrth  i  hwynebav  .  .  .  or  gelvyddyd  a  elwit 
Rabin  .  .  .  .  yn  kynta  y  dowait  am  wr  dv  &c.  with  illustrations. 

223  ILyma  viii  ddefnydd  a  ddyle  i  bod  mewn  dyn  :  (i)  or  ddaiar  &c. 

•  225*  [^Kwrs  y  llevad']  .  .  j  v]  dydd  or  lloer  da  iw  i  brynv  moch  &c. 

239  Palmistry  or  Drych  y  Haw .-  ||  y  bowyd  yn  agos  ....  0  bydd 
llin  y  pen  yn  gyfan  ag  yn  gyfion  dawn  ir  ymenydd  a  ddengys  .  .  .  .  . 
ends :  O  bydd  manav  dvon  melldigon  a  gelynion  erlynedic  iw  hwnw. 

253  Dysc     i    [ddealU]    brevddwidion    o    herteydd     llyfr     Daniel 

proffwyd:  Gweled  dy  vod  yn  dal  adar   ynill  iw ends:  gweled 

ki  yn  dy  frathv  hawl  swyddockion  mewn  kyfrailh  vydd  itti 

266  Sol  venws   mercwriws  mi  ai  karwn  &c. 

b.  Gwilied  i  plaened  ar  y  blaenddydd  i  daith  &c. 

267  Y  gwr  a  laddodd  y  gwas  a  herwr  a  hirynt  y  dwr  glaw  &e. 
b.  marwolaeth  a  wuaeth  dvw  naf  &c. 

268  iniawn  ddewis  ar  ddevddyn  (1.  5)  &c. 


MS.  173  =  Hen.  547.  Poetkt  from  the  Black  Bool  of  Car- 
marthm,  etc.,  Ehandiked,  etc.,  Indices  and  the  beginning  of  a 
"Hekaldic  DiCTiONAKT."  Paper;  about  8  x  6|- inches  ;  108  pages, 
loose,  in  several  hands  ;  circa  1600-40 ;  tied  in  brown  paper. 

Part  J —pages  1-28  are  in  the  hand  of  Eoger  Morys.  Part  n- pages  1-45  are  in 
the  hand  of  John  Jones  of  Gelli  Lyvdy;  pp.  67-89  are  in  the  same  hand  as  Pen. 
MS.  114  (.ij.v.)  ;  pp.  91-106  are  in  the  hand  of  Robert  Vaughan,  and  pp.  107-8  in 
that  of  W.  Maurice  of  Llansilin.    Many  pages  are  hlank. 

"Katherine  Blayney,""KatherineBowen  her  hand,  1691    (p.  108). 

»  The  fragment  that  follows  here  should  apparently  follow  page  54,  which  contains 
the  beginning  of  Kuirs  ij  llevad.  The  text  ends  in  English  about  how  To  know 
I  he  ar/e  of  the  Moon. 


ASTROLOGY,    PALMISTRY,   RHANDIREDD.  .069^ 

Amrafael  bethav   a   gopiimjd  allan   or 
™     ,    ,    ^  ^yfi"   du  o   gaer  vur  ddin 

Ihe  text  of  pages  1-16  is  the  original  of  Pen.  MS.  Ill,  pp.  18S-228,  q.v. 

17  Mar:  Rob:  xoynnor  Voelas  .  .  .   "  bv  j  n  j  ssirrif  ssir 
ddmbijch"  :  ||  KvrglecM  hoU  wyoedd  ai  llv     .     . 
ffyniant  a  gaffo  i  onaid  Edwart  ap  Raph 

20  Mar:  Jfan  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  Rob:  o  Lannvair 

Diliw  Noe  (Irwy  /n/  ardal  ni     ,     .     .     . 
glynn  dwr  arglwydd  glan  dewr  wych||       (i.  30) 

21  karol :  Dyma  wirod,   niair  yn  dyfod     .... 

i  vail-  voliaiit,  drwy  ogoniant  Edw:  llwyd  or  dderwen 

22  Ha  vrodyr  wyr  ffyddloa  a  fEerffaith  grvatnogioa  &c.  Ij 
25      II  Mair  fadlen  pawb  ai  gwybv     .... 

er  i  bod  yn  gordderchv  &c. 
This  fragment  in  praise  of  Saints  contains  stanzas  16-35. 

Part  ii. 
1    II  ardreth  yu  Dolbadarn  ;  a  tliir  vvyth  ffloring  ardreth  yn  y  Deiruiou 

a  thir  ym  Horthaetliwy  ag  y  maenol  Vangor morched  Hari'i  a^i 

gwerthodd  ir  ail  S"'  W.  Gr:  or  Penrryu. 

3  Rrann  dir  TLe'ri  ap  Mad:  ap  Einon  o  Lann  Ynys  y  nyftryu 
klwyd :  ILewelyn  ap  Madoc  ....  bwim  pioedd  y  plas  y  Macliynbyd  : 

ar  rranu  vwyaf  o  vaes  maen  kymro  :  ar  Brynn  karodic ends  ■ 

Plant  IL'u  =  Mad:  /  Sion  /  Rrobert  /  Tomas  a  Ho'l. 

Allan  0  law  Simwnt  vychan  y  copiais  i  Rann  dir  Ll'n. 

8  Rramidir  Ywain  hyfelioc  ap  Gr:  ap  Maredydd :  Gr:  ap  Mred: 
...  a  gavas  yn  ei  rann  .  .  .  Pywys  Wenwynwya  .  .  .  ends .  Mar- 
gred  a  wiscoyd  yu  vynaches  .  ac  velly  .  / 

19  Vmodd  y  digwyddodd  y  dalaith  i  vleddyn  fab  liynvyn  :  Kyn- 
vyn  a  briodes  vab  Gwrystan  vab  Gwaithvoed  a  briodes  Yngbarad  vercli 
Varedydd  vab  Ow:  vab  Ho'l  dda  &c. 

20  Am  avel  Joo  grach  yn  Urevalyn  y  Maelor :  Gr:  ap  Adda  ap  Gr: 
ap  Siankyn  ap  '].  ap  Joo  llwyd  ap  Joo  gradi  yr  bwn  .  .  .  oed  ytivedd 
&c yn  amser  Ywain  Glynndwr  vv  bynny. 

22  Yma  y  treithir  am  iarllaeth  Gaer  :  Hvw  Lvwpws  ...  a  Marn-ed 
ei  wraic  cbwaer  Wiliam  kwnkwerwr  Ac.  a  fragment 

25  II  [milvvjriaetb  i   vod  yn   llyw  ar  vil  o   wyr Asteryal  a 

gymertb  gledd  .  .  .  ae  ve  a  dniwodd  Olybyon  nn  w  waitb  a  lied  y  kledd 
ar  y  ysgwydd  ddehev,  yn  arwyddokad  o  naw  rbinwedd  y  .  .  .  naw 
maen  gwerthfawr  &c. 

27  Pcdair  Rimoedd  Milwrieth  :  Y  kyntaf  y w  bod  yn  drachyfion  yn 
i  addewidion  &c. 

28  Naw  articles  Bcncdd  .  .  .  y  /  5  /  kariadvs  vonedd  yw  rhai  na  bo  || 

33  jfr  Darleyd  :  Anwyl   Darleyd  lyma  iy  kysefin    lyfr  Englynnion* 

if,  ■  .  a  rennais  if  yn  duy  rann (;:i6)  Yma  y  kesglais  ag  y 

gossodeis  if  vyrdan  or  Bann  kyntaf  i  bob  Englyn (37)  ti  a 

gei  yma  hefyd  vyrdan  o  destyn  pob  sett  o  Englynion  ....  (39)  Sion 
ap  VV.  ap  S.  ap  W.  ap  Sion  &c. 

41  II  Geiriyd  if,  yr  bun  a  gesglais  a  gyfunais  ag  a  gys.syltais  yma  yn 
un  lyfyr  alan  om  uawed  lyfran  Geiriyd  if  ag  alan  om  darnieu  lyfreii 
kasgledig  if  ...  y  syd  yn  nodol K  .  j-f  ■    p  •  ^°-    John  Jones 

*  Only  the  Prefaces  are  here.     Pages  41-2,  43-5  are  fragments  of  other  MSS. 
y  98430.  U    U 


970  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS    173-175. 

43     II  Mae  /  n  /  roi  neewyn  i  duu  ehun     .... 

duu  ro  i  ni  /r/  gras  imgroessi .  /  Anon 

67-90  Inde.v  (A.  to  P.)  to  first  lines  of  Poetry  iu  some  MS. 

This  Index  is  apparently  in  the  same  hand  as  Pen.  MS.  114  q.v. 
91-106    The  beginning    of  a  'Heraldic   Dictionary'   (Aeddan    to 
Euwas,  Robert  of  Euwas.    A.  fesse  G.  3  moletts  &c.)  in  the  hand  of  Rob: 
Vaughan  of  Hengwrt. 

107-8  Index  to  first  linea.of  poetry,  beginning  with  Y,  in  some  MS. 
This  is  apparently  in  the  hand  of  W.  Moris  of  ILansilin. 


MS.  174  =  Hen.  296.  De  Verborum  Iiiflexione  extracted  from 
the  Grammar  of  Dr.  J.  I).  Rhys  by  Griffith  Roberts  of  Dolgelle 
(pp.  56,  61).     Paper;  8|  x  6J  inches  ;  62  pages  ;  sewn. 


TffiS.  175  =  Hen.  40.  Welsh  Laws— Pleadings.  Vellum  ; 
'6|  X  5|-  inches ;  88  pages,  many  of  which  are  gall-stained  ;  late  xvth 
century  ;  in  limp  old  leather  cover. 

On  the  inside  of  the  front  cover  Sir  Thomas  Wlliems  has  written  "  D  Gaillelmi 
Morgan!  ex  dono  Tho:  Guilielmi."  This  William  Morgan  was  the  translator 
of  the  Welsh  Bible,  and  afterwards  Bp.  of  St.  Asaph  ;  hence  the  MS.  is  styli!d 
"  A' "  The  Book  label  of  "  R.  W"""  Vaughan,  Hengwrt "  is  placed  below  the 
above  inscription,  and  on  a  folio  inserted  later  is  written  "  D.  Rob.  Vachani  de 
Hengurt  (test.  Guilh.  Mauricio  Lansiliens.  p  quem  transoriptus  est  fideliter  Anno 
1662) "  ^ 

This  MS.  is  the  3!  of  the  Ancient  Laws  and  hutitutcs  of  Wales, 
and  its  text  is  printed  in  Vol.  II.,  pages  210-304  1.  17. 

Page  1.  LLyma  y  gyniver  ffordd  y  gwhana  dyn  ay  dda  ac  ykygayn 
•iddaw  y  holt  yn  gyff[r]eithiol  lladrat  .  athrais  .  agyffarch  .  echwyn  . 
adnev  .  benthic  .  Hoc  .  kyfinewit  .  llefget  .  gwarche  .  achychwyn, 
affyfireithiol.  ILyma  val  ydyleir  travthv  hawl  ladrat  deuryw  ladrat 
ysyd  .  lladrat  kynyrchawl  .  lladrat  agynyrchol.  Oa  lladrat  kynyrchol 
vyd  damdwg  a  ddyleir  amdanaw  eithyr  y  Triffeth  ny  ad  hyfreitk  y 
damdwg  .  blawt  .  gwenyn  ac  arjan  .  ac  am  y  tri  hynny  y  dyleir  gyr  O 

byd  lleftyr   yn  ykylch  damdwg  a  ddyleir  amdanvnt ends  : 

Pedwar  rwym  liawl  mach  a  brvddyw  athyltyon  a  gwybyddyait  Pedwar 
amddyffyn  yflyd  raith  y  wadv  mach  ape/iaraw  ar  dabo  y  da  acheidwait 
ac  arddelw  A  holo  eddewyt  nev  amot  nev  gyffnewit  holet  drwy  vach 
kanyt  newit  heb  vach.  Tri  gwyftyl  nyt  angyffraith  ev  mwynhav  kyn 
dagwydawnyt  amgen  blith  athelyn  athowlbwrd  Tri  thrais  nyddywygyr 
nyt  amgen  trays  Ivyd  athrays  tan  athrays  vorhydd  |  dyly  ynat  varnv 
vn  vrawt  yn  rat  namyn  tayr  hawl  or  kautref  by  gylyd  a  hawl  hyt  y 
decvet  geynyawc  ac  attauel  ar  a  varno  kyffraith.  Nyt  aa  atdryblyn  yn 
haal.     Sef  yw  atdryblyn  gwechyll  daynt  ac  awch. 

The  original  hand  ends  here,  and  there  is  nothing  to  indicate  that 
the  MS.  is  imperfect,  nothwithstanding  the  note  of  the  Editor  of  the 
Welsh  Laws  (Vol.  ii.  p.  305).  A  few  lines  in  a  different  hand  are 
illegible.  Then  follows,  in  a  hand  still  different,  the  pedigree  of 
"  Aldvdd  verch  ywain  ap  edwyn  ap  Gronw  ap  eingion  ap  ywain  ap 
hywel  ap  kadell  ap  Rodri  mawr  ap  Rodri  molwynoc  o  effylld  verch 
kynan  dindaethwy,"  &c. 

Dydd  amod  diev  ddyn  yd  qedd  &c. 

Pedair  dolen  aievgayn  yn  y  llyvy  r  hwn. 


LAWS   AND   PEDIGREES.  971 

^>f  ^?-i-J^^-^^^"/  ^i^^-  ^'^^  ^  ^^^-     Pedigrees  in  the  autograph 
rLSrS    ^''•"f"'^-!       ^>'^'"'  "'^°"'    6x4    inches;    406    pages, 

s  occasionally  .mperfect;  written   between    1545   and    1553,  with  later 
insertions  in  red  ink  (p.  99)  ;  half  bound  in  leather. 

ve^^lls^^*^  t!,VJ°J"''  Pf ''P''  ""  *"'•  «»'l«etion  of  Welsh  pedigrees  up  to  the 
What  Lkt  t   r      T    sources  ai-c  pvea  maeh  more  fally  than  in  other  MSS. 
What  looks  Ike  the  autograph  ot  Jeuan  llavar  oeour.^  on  page  292      This  writins 

bears  a  suggestive  resemblance  to  the  older  hand  of  Mostyn  MS    161  ^ 

1  II  y  vj  ed— g.  J.  ap  *  *  *  *  D.   o   vr,jln\  sseilhydd  yn  edeirnion 

L'J  J- y  t>v  ttn  vychan  tad  Siankyn  .  .  .  sydd  yn  //.  lidan. 
0.  p.  J.  ap  D.  ap  eagion  ap  J.  rymvs  =  ho'l  /  T./  &c. 
c.  JL.  dwrog  :  O.  ap  lewis  ap  gr:  ap  f .  llwyd  &c 

2  Robm  ap  gr:  bwl  a  ddaliwyd  ac  aed  ac  ef  ir  rrolt  yngharchar  ac  a  ffiuiwyd  i 
.X .  pvut  ac  addoeth  i  wraic  i  ymweled  ac  ef  ac  yno  i  gydewis  ef  i  wraic  yn<Twystl 
y  .X.  pvnt  travel  yn  myued  i  ge.ssio  r  ari^n  adref  ac  yna  i  dvc  ef  y  .x.  pvnt  oddiar 
Kobin  ap  J.  y  mab  ap  ^  korwen  ac  yno  i  doeth  rrobin  ap  gr:  bwl  i  wyddelweru  i 
dy  datarnwraic  a  elwid  tibod  ac  o  honno  i  bv  ij  vab  .  .  .  ;         ac  nid  aeth 

1  edrych  am  i  wraic  ir  holt  yn  y  diwedd  hithe  a  drawodd  wrth  Ithel  vychan  ac 
«■  gavas  JMred ,  &c. 

Gan  Reinallt  ap  rrwrgan  o  vctws  y  koed  i  had  y  lair  dnlcn  or  blaen 
4  1.1  ddervel:    Marged     v>   Mred:    ap   tudr   ap   J.  ^   briodes  Ha    vychan  o  L 
armon  yn   Jal  .  .   .  .  ac   ir  aeth  marged  gida  D.  ddv  ap  tvdr  o  L.  armon   yr  hwn 

n  ^^f    \         ^^""^'^^  ■ '"'"  •  "  ^''""  =">  y"'™^  ''C  •  D.  ddv  o  marged  7   bv  syr 
D./Edw.&c.  medd  Jhon  ap  feuan  ap  Wu  enus 

5  Rvthvn  :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  mad:  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 
Denven :  Rys  ap  J.  ap  mad:  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  llwyd  &c. 

6  IL.  gwtjfen :  D.  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  I),  bwrde  &c. 
IL.  hedr:  J.  llwyd  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  twna  &c. 

7  Eglwys  vach :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  ho'l  goeh  ap  kwnw*  ap  D.  &c. 
Ymwythic  :  Morgan  glofF  ap  D.  ap  ho'l  o  holant  &c. 

8  kefn  y  bvarth  a  JL.  armon  D.  keirioc:  y  person  syr  Eeinallt  ap 

Jeuan  ap  gr:  &c. 

9  Sarffle :  To:  ap  ^f.  llwyd  ap  J.  kyffin  &c. 

10  Tomas  ap  Hn  ap  mad:  or  dernion  Ac. 

11  -E.  gollen  a  silattvn  :  J.  wyn  lak  ap  T.  lak  .   .  ap  syr  Eis'  lake 
J  7   ¥  ddisserth  yn  rros  llan  sanffraid :  plant  John  Owen  ap  J.  ap 

Robin  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 

19  Dvdlvst,  pentre  morgan :  D.  ap  Madoc  ap  gr:  ap  Deio  &c. 

20  IL.  dol  hayarn :  Grono  gethin  ap  grono  ap  kyn:  &c. 

21  Dinmel :  p.  Owen  hen  ap  gr:  ap  O.  ap  bleddyn  ap  O.  brog>i. 
23  &  30  y  Gaer  geric:  plant  ac  wyron  ftu  ap  0.  hen  &c. 

25  p.  J.  vychan  o  varged  V3  tudr  ap  deikws  v'n  o  wyddelwern  <fcc. 
29  p.  J.  llwyd  ap  Owain  vychan  ap  O.  hen  &c. 

33  llyssan,  islaw  mvrddyn,  Dinmel :  Reinallt  ap  jf.  ap  D.  &c. 

34  llangwm  :  p.  jf.  ap  tudr  ap  D.  ap  itn  ap  0.  =  D.  llwyd  a  Rob:  v'u 

35  IL.  V'el  krom  Iwyd :  Rob:  ap  R.  ap  Mred:  ap  Mad  &c. 

36  Pew  kraic,  Betus  gwervyl  goch :  T.  ap  Sn  ap  rrobert  <fec. 

37  Syr  D.  person  y  betlws  a  //,  gw?n  map  ) .  ap  tudr  ll'd  ap  Ha  gethin 
y  betus :  p.  T.  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  ftn  ap  O.  hen  &c. 

38  y  faerdref  isaf,  ydeirnion  ;  Elis  ap  ]f.  ap  Tomas  ap  'j.  ap  Edw:  &c. 
Cynwyd:  Ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  &c. 

39  Maen  y  bardd  y  sydd  ar  y  flFordd  rrwrg  kadair  dinmael  ar  betws  o  vewn  tref  | 
lys  an  vab  y  lleian  ac  yn  y  main  hynny  y  rrain  sydd  yn  vedrod  gron  vechan  i  kad 
an  ab  y  lleian  amvrddyn  y  lleian  y  sydd  is  law  hynny  yn  ymyl  .  .  y  Uyssdir 

b.  yr  achos  yr  aeth  p'""'^"'"  '"  .".'""''  ".tj.".,,^//,  ,.„^,,.^^..™™j  ...i..: — ■ —  _:j  __. 
myned  or  neb  pioedd  y 


b.  yr  achos  yr  aeth  penllyn  is  veloch  oddiwrth  varwnwaed  ydeirnion  nid  amo-en  no 
y  rrandir  hwnw  ar  wahodd  i  vanachloc  1.  egwestl  a  dwyn  o  vn 


*  Excepting  pages  81-2  1.  8,  101  -11  1.8;    116  ;  200  1.  11-202  ;  313-17  1    16-  341 
11.  1-6  ;  342-3  :  375. 

UU   2 


972  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    176. 

oi  wasanaetuwyr  gwpan  arian  yn  lledrad  or  vanachloe  a  dyvod  ar  ev  hoi  o 
genadav  yr  abad  achael  ykwpan  gauthynt  sef  a  wiiaeth  yntav  krogi  i  wsnaethwr 
heb  na  barn  na  brawd  ac  am  hynny  iraeth  idir  yn  Haw  r  brenhin  nadowssai  i  gwrs- 
y  gyfraith  gerdded  srrno  gan  Reinall  .  .  .  .  ap  Dd. 

40  Betics  loyrion  gwgon  :  Edn:  v'n  ap  kyn:  ap  ^er:  ap  Gwgon  Ac. 
Ymwythic  a  phowys :  p.  O.  kyteiliocap  J.  k.  =  Mathe/D.  &e.* 

41  IL.  Rwst :  p.  Rob:  ap  Hvw  o  anes  V5  Eydd}  <fcc.  ' 

42  „  mallt  v3  J.  llwyd  .  .  a  briodes  R.  ap  ho'l  koedmor  gwr  a 
rwysc  mawr  sii'if  ya  heir  sir  gwynedd  ao  anrregiou  ami  yn  dyfod  iddo  o  bell  ac  o 
agos  a  thrigo  yr  oedd  yn  y  Uys  ynghaer  brychiad  ac  erbyn  ynydolic  i  doeth  deio  ap- 
ll'n  ap  D.  yffeiriad  ao  anrreo  yno  ai  gymydoc  nessaf  oedd  yn  trigo  jjmryn  ynyr  sef 
oedd  yr  anrrec  Hen  tsvrch  a  chostrel  o  gwrw  ac  wedi  i  dangos  ir  wraic  meddai  hithe^ 

yn  darhavs  iawn  dos  adref  .  .  ath  gigach  ath  svkau kynn  i  marw  [hij 

ddoeth  i  dy  yrvn  gwr  i  gardotta  Uaeth  a  ffiser  genthi 

43  kilglassan,  IL.  sanfraid  yn  y  ddisserth :  Ho:  ap  mred:  ap  Edii:  Ac-. 

45  IL.  ynys,  D.  klioyd :  Edjr:  llwyd  ap  Edw:  ap  Jhon  Ac. 
ysgeibion,  JL.  ynys :  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  ^.  ap  Tudr  Ac. 

46  karroc,  a  threwyn,  G.  Dyfrdwy :  Jer:  ddv  ap  mad:  ap  gr:  maeloi* 

47  syr  Jhon  twna  vicar  horwen  Ac. 

48  Bryn  Eglwys,  koedrwc,  a  chymo :  wyrion  Jthel  velyn 

50  IL.  armon  y  kwrt,  IL.  degla :  p.  ho'l  ap  D.  ap  ho:  koetmor  Ac. 
IL.  verys :  D.  koetmor  ap  R.  ap  ho'l  ap  D.  Ac.    ' 

51  IL.  sanan :  Wilkoc  pigod  pensaer  "Jarll  linkol  .  .  .  aeth  i  lathi vcJ 
agwenllian  fechan  .  .  .  nc  yni  chylch  y  bvr  drin  ar  Riw  daldro 

53  T'ravis :  JhoQ  trefor  ap  syr  W.  trefor  a  fv  ymanachloc  1.  egwesti 
yn  siaplen  ir  abad  S.  ap  Rissiart  a  f r  o  flaen  yr  esgob  D.  ap  f.  ap  ^er: 

54  Ros  yw  vch  dvlas  ac  is  dvlas  a  heddiw  hwndrwd  is  dvlas  nid 
amgen  IL.  Rwst.  II.  doged  .  Eglwys  vach.  11.  sanfEraid  new  y  ddisserth. 
11.  drillo.  11.  Elien  .  y  betws  wyrion  gwgon  .  11.  ddvlas  .  aber  gelav,  a 
11.  Sain  Sior  .  a  rros  hefyd  yw  kwmwd  y  krevddyn  er  nad  ydiw  yn 
swyddinbych  nai  sir  nid  amgen  Eglwys  ros  .  11.  dydno  .  11.  gystenin 
a  11.  gynfran  ne  Uysvaen. 

RYFONIOC  yw  is  aled  a  cheinmyrch  athref  ddiobych  ac  yr  owroo 
hwndrwd  is  aled  nid  amgen  Vsbyty  .  keric  y  drvdion  .  Uangwm. 
11.  fihangel  .  y  betws  gwevryl  goch  .  nanklyn  .  11.  ryaiyadr  .  Henllan. 
11.  vfvdd  .  11.  gerniw  '.  11.  fair  Dolfcayarn  .  Gwytherin  ar  Eglwys  wen. 

55  Yrvc  a  II.  ynys :  p.  1,  Rob:  salbri  /  2,  T.  V'n  ap  Pirs  Salbri  /  3, 
ffwk  salbri  ^ 

56  IL.  vwroc ;  p.  Jhon  wyn  salbri  vab  pirs  salbri  Ac. 

57  Rossyndal  j  Henllan  j  ffoxol :  pirs  llwyd  ap  hvw  ll'd  ap  J.  U'd  Ac. 

58  Tref  Evarth,  II.  vair  yn  yffryn  ^.— Jhon  wyn  ap  D.  ap  gr:  Ao. 

60  Ystryd  alvn  ar  wyddgric  :  p.  Blis  ap  Gr:  =  syr  gr:  /  Rob:/ J.  Ac. 
61-2  IL.  evrgain  :  kyn:  ap  Ric:  ap  lewis  ap  mad:  ap  Hn  v'n 

61  Bevddwr :  Gwrgi  o  gastell  ynghaer  Einion  aeth  a  meddefvs  v> 
Gr:  vychan  ap  itn  ap  D.  i  lathlyd  ac  yno  i  kad  Gr:  v'n  o  ddevddwr  Ac. 

Garni  vicar  Uan  sanffraid  ymechain     "  Cclwydd  mawr  "  yn  llaw  Rhys  kain 

62  Nerthgtvys  alhrevddyn  :  ftn  sais  a  grono  sais  p.  Enion 

63  p.  heilin  vychan  ap  D.  ap  tudr  ap  kyn:  v'n  Ac. 

65  Bye.  ap  T.  ap  Gr:  .  .  .  .  ap  Ririd  o  flodfol 
Blodvol :  Ho'l  ap  mred:  ap  D.  ap  Sn  v'n 

Bevddwr .-  p.  ftn  ap.  D.  llwyd  =  W.  llwyd  a  mred  llwyd 

66  Dolwen,  II.  sanffraid  ymechain :  D.  ap  morgan  ap  syr  hvw  Ac, 
II  ymlodvol :  p.  Jhon  tanSd  =  Ells  a  Jhon 

Penkraic :  Syr  Gr:  (person  P.)  ap  Sn  ap  gr:  ap  f .  vain  &c. 
llanerch  emrys :  p.  syr  gr:  ap  Hn  Ac.  =  morys  ag  wmffre^ 
Y  brynn,  II.  ymlodvol :  Ho'l  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  ttn  v  n  Ac. 


*  q'j.ap  D.  ap  J.  v'n 


THE   BOOK   OF   GRIFFITH   HIRAETHOG.  973 

67  merched  ]fenkin  kinast  ==  Ales  g.  Rob:  llwyd  o  Iwyn  y  niaen  &c. 
Iirl,2s  Jfss55lllt*  :  p.  J.  ap  Ed:  ap  ho'l  =  Gr:  llvgemydd  a  D. 

68  meibion  kyn:  ap  rriwallon  :  Ynyno/ Ednyfed  &c. 

'" yn  llyfr  hari  leonwy  hen"     "  Jarfo  yn  y  llyfr  mmor  ■     j^Sj" 

"Jaclif  T.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  syttya 
•'      AlreX  :  Jankyn  alrre  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  &c. 

69  Tref  Uanlidaii  a  roes  esgob  ban2:or  i  jer:  ap  karwed  yn  rydd  iddaw  ef  ac  yu 
gaeth  ir  tenantiaid  ac  am  nad  vfyddhaent  wy  iw  orchymvn  eif  \  tores  vo  ben  y  naill 
ar  irinodd  \  aradr  lie  gelwir  erw  y  bengloc  ar  vaes  y  Han  Ac  i  kroges  y  Hal!  yn  rryd 
y  krogwr  &c. 

b.  Englyn  kwkwll  rridill  giuas  Edn :  ap  gr:  u  vaelnr  a  gad  gan 
Elis  ap  ho'l  ap  dai 
pawb  awjr  oi'wyr  arcs  paham  mae  drvd  ypvm  mis  Edn:  ap  gr: 

bod  iddog  byd  eiddigvs  .  .  .  baw  di  aws  i  wyr  vydolws  o  Sotvnlli 

70  Randir  Rys  ap  Marchan ;    tref  benn  y  koed  ar   vyneohdid  /  kil  groeslwyd 

aphant  mevgan 

Hryn  y  golwc  i  gelwid  gynt  lie  mae  eglwys  11.  vwroc 

Yr  erw  drwm  i  Uwyth  =  kastell  rrvthvn  =  dinas  eiddyn  =  (kastell  gwernvor) 
achyngwneYthvry  dref  devle  varchnadoeddynghantref  UyfErynkhvyd  .  .  .  Gwavn 
Ian  dymoc  a  Han  lidan  ffair  galaa  gayaf  ao  o  ran  y  ffair  bono  mae  dadle  pi  powdwr 
yn  i  gadw  yno  vyth  ddigwyl  y  meirw  a  rrac  nesed  y  ddav  le  hyny  i  wledydd  eraill  i 
roedd  anllywodreth  val  na  ellid  i  kynal  ao  am  hynny  igwnaed  dre  varchau  ynghanol 
gwlad  am  y  ddwy 

71  //.  lidan :  Lewii  ap  ho'l  ap  iia  chwith  ap  mad:  ap  Uelo  &c. 

II.  voir  ynyjfryn  k. — Jhon  ap  Mred:  ap  ^.  llwyd  ap  Kn  goch  &c. 

72  Hendref  brys  y  bryn  gwyn:  Rob:  ap  Roger  ap  ho'l  ap  R.  Ac. 
heric  y  drvdion :  D.  ap  J.  ap  R. 

73  Hendre  brys,  rryd  gav :  R.  ap  ^.  ap  gr:  ap  Robert  &c. 

74  keric  y  drvdion,  pen  an  air  ynrre  brys :  Morys  ap  Rob:  ap  R.  &c. 
y  ddisserth :  R.  holan  ap  D.  ap  tin  ap  grono  ap  kwaws  &c. 

„  a  dinbych :  Owain  bach  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  &c. 

75  tref  brys,  ynys  y  gronn  wine  :  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  engn:  H'd. 

76  Fenaiiair  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  '].  ap  Eng"  llwyd 

77  //.  vair  Dolhayam  :  p.  Rob:  ap.Mred:  ap  D.  —  Rob:/VV./  Ric:  &c. 
79  Meiriadoc  :  meib  Jhon  ap  iiii  ap  ho'l  =^  Owain  a  Rys 

„  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Rys  ap  Edn:  ap  tudr  ap  deikus 

52  Gioikwair :  T.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  kwnws  ap  Hn  ap  gronw  &c. 

,,  Arthvr  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  rrobin  &c. 

53  Meiriadoc :  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  R.  llwyd  c&c. 

tJ4  IL.  lidan  :  Hvw  salbri  ap  Rob:  salbri  o  L.  rwst  &c. 
Aaer  lillo,  ynanhlwyd :  T.  vychan  salbri  ap  pirs  salbri 
Nanklwyd :  Ho'l  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  D.  a-p  ho'l  &c. 

•85  Bryn  kyine,  Tir  esgob,  II.  lidan  :  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  lowrans  &c. 
kaer  villa  :  Rob:  ap  ho'l  ap  Jhon  ap  deio  &c. 

56  kaer  ddinem,  U.  lidan  :  R.  wyn  ap.  J.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &e. 
Garth  y  nevadd :  R.  ap  itn  goch  ap  D.  ap  W.  &o. 
Trewyn  :  T.  ap  J.  [ap]  D.  ap  adda 

tre  II.  lidan  ;  J.  ap  gr:  ap  nikolas  ap  belyn 

57  barivn  II.  gwnn  .  Pirs  maes mar  arvoh:  wyn  =  p.  R.  wyn  ap  gr:  &c, 
y  llwyn  dedwydd :  Tomas  vychan  ap  Rob:  ap  C,x: 

llyssan  :  barwn  gr:  llwyd  ap  Elisse  ap  ho'l  ap  R.  &c. 
Garth  meilio  :  barwn  Rys  wyn  ap  Mred:  ap  tudr  ap  ^.  llwyd  &c. 
88    Tre  ednyfed  yn  II.  gollen .   p.  J.  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  =  Morys  ac  ]f. 
y  gaer  geric  :  J.  ap  Rob:  ap  U.  ap  ftn  &c. 
Moelfre :  D.  Uwyd  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  vychan  &c. 
kimn  orwr :  Hvw  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  koch 


*  Gr:  Hiraethoc  uses  frequently  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  55,  and  7  for  the  vowels  a,  e,  i,  o,  u, 
V   and  y  ■   6  is  also  used  for  w. 

t  kais  gan  syr  hvw  o  L.  gollen  {  yn  y  ddolen  olaf  o  lyfr  syr  D.  vychan 


974.  PENIARTH   MANUSCEIPT   176. 

89  IL,  gwm :  syr  hvw,  vicar,  ap  D.  ap  engion  vychan 
t7-e  L.  gwm :  R.  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  llwyd 

Dyffryn  klwyd :  D.  din  llaes  ap  Mad  ap  Ric.  [maelor 

90  JL.  sanffraid  g.  dyfrdwy :  J.  ap  kadvor  a  gafa3  y  dre  gan  Gr: 

91  JBryii  eglwys :  syr  J.  ap  Hn  vychan  ap  J.  &c. 

92  i.  vair  D.  K. — Rob:  ap  R.  ap  I),  ap  Hn  .  ,  ap  D.  gam  o  drofartb 
IL.  ynys :  syr  Tomas,  vicar,  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  &c. 

93  korteen  :  syr  lewis,  vicar,  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  &c. 

94  Derwen :  R.  ap  jf.  ap  ho'l  ap  Mad:  &c. 

Tresgeifioc  yn  erwen :  R.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  &c. 

95  y  gyffyllioc,  D.k. — Ho'l  ap  D.  ap  tudr  ap  gronow  &c. 
keinmyrch  :  E.  ap  D.  ap  tudr  ap  gronow  &c. 

96  Tresgeibion,  IL  ynys :  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  tudr  &c. 
JPlas  y  ward  :  Ric:  thelwal  ap  Edw:  th.  ap  eibl  th.  &c. 

97  Chwitffordd  :  To:  ap  R.  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

99   V  ddinserth :  llyma  yr  ysgriven  sydd  ar  groes  eng°  ap  rririd 
flaidd  :   Ok  sy  petatur  lapis  yste  ka.wssa  notatiir 
einioii  oxi  rriddid flaidd filius  hoc  memoratur   Cf.  p,  839  supra, 
Rvthvn  :  Edw:  Gwdman  ap  T.  ap  Edw:  ap  J.  goch  d.  1560 

Mertyn  :  D.  mertyn  kwntroler  gwaitb  y  brenin 

100  Bettos  y  hoed :  Ric:  ap  ho'l  ap  D.  ap  engn:  &c. 

101  Maen  twroc :  Gr:  ap  siankyn  ap  R.  ap  tudr  &c. 
Traws  vynydd :  Jhon  ap  Edw:  ap  gr;  ap  siankyn  &c. 

102  iL.  sanan  :  D.  o  Dreflech  a  Rob:  v'n  o  benllyn  =  p.  Siankyn  ll'd 
penan  aled :  "]  ankyn  ap  ho'l  ap  Jankyn  &c. 

103  IL.  vair  dol  hay  am,  dyfryn  melai :  g.  Ric:  ap  mred:  ap  D.  &e. 
Bodrychwin  yn  II.  vair :  O.  ap  W.  ap  J.  ap  Robin  &c. 

Tal  hayarn  :  p.  J.  ap  Rys  ap  gronw  ap  kyn:  &c. 

104  „  J.  ap  itn  ap  gr:  ap  E.  ap  Robin  &c. 

105  y  hide  :  W.  ap  O.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  gr:  llwyd  o  ginmel 
y  kynant :  Gr;  llwyd  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

106  Rvthvn  a  II.  dyrnoc  :  J.  wyn  o  aisbwl  ap  To: 

107,  115   Gwikuer  :  f.  ap  T.  ap  fin  ap  R.  llwyd  ap  R.  ap  J.  &c. 

108  „  Tudr  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  edn:  ap  kwna  dv  &c. 

109  ZL.  ddvlas,  yrwyddfid  voel :  D.  ap  f.  ap  R.  ap  ^.  v'n 
Penrryn  dvlas  :  p.  D.  ap  eng°  ap  R.  llwyd  =  W.  a  fin 

111  Aber  gele  :  U.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  f.  v'n 

112  Meiriadloc],  bryn  y  pin:  p.  [Ed]wat  ap  fin  ap  kyn:  ap  D.  &c. 
114  Gwihvair:  D.  llwyd  a  f.  ap  ho'l  ap  gronw  ap  bleddyn  ap  ithel 

118  heinmyrch  .   f .  ap  D.  vychan  ap  ^er:  ap  T).  ap  kowvyd  &c. 

119  vwch  aled:  p.  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr.  ap  bleddyn  llwyd  &c. 
121    Maelor  S.—Jhon  'Jwnk  ap  gr:  ap    *  *  *  ap  'Jankyn  &c. 

Fstryd  Alvn  :  Rob:  llwyd  ap  Edw:  llwyd  ap  D.  llwyd  Ac. 

124  Jhon  evtyn  ap  gr:  ap  nicolas  ap  decu;*  &c. 

125  Kydewain.  hasten  Dol  v\orwyn]  :  Mred:  ap  Rotpert  ap  Uowarch 
y  drefnewydd:  p.  T.  ap  R.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Einion  &c. 
]L    V'cl  yn  heri :  J.  ap  R.  ap  morys  ap  mad  ap  Einion  &c. 

y  plas  yn  y  vaenor :  Ric:  ap  Edw:  ap  ho'l  ap  ^.  llwyd  &c. 

126  VDrefneivy  :  Morys  ap  Ho:  ap  f.  goch  [benllwyd]  ap  Mred:  &c. 
mynofon  :  p.  Ho'l  blaene  ap  gr:  vychan  &c. 

126  &'20o  haer  Sws  :  T.  ap  f.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  f.  blaene  &c. 

127  heri:  J.  llwyd  ap  Morys  .  .  .  ap  Einion  ap  ho'l  &c. 
/;    V'el  ynheri :  p.  j.  ap  mred:  ap  ho'l  ap  Adda  &c. 
harno  :  Ho'l  vychan  ap  fin  ap  ho'l  llwyd  ap  mevric  &c. 

128  Aricystli :  f.  gwynn  ap  itn  llwyd  ap  lewys  ap  fin  &c. 

129  Kydewain  :  D.  llwyd  ap  mathe  ap  kadwa[ladr]  &c. 


THE    BOOK   OF   GRIFFITH   HIEAETHOG.  975 

129  lieri:  Eob:  ap  ^.  Uwyd  ap  morys  ap  Mad:  &c. 
owain  v'n  ap  gr.-  ap  nired:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  v'n  &c. 
O.  ap  5,  tec  iip  deio  ap  Hn  ap  Einion  &c. 

Mechain  is  koed,  II.  sanffraid :  p.  D.  goch  ap  Mred:  &c. 

130  p.  J.  ap  Jankyn  hir  ap  J.  ap  Sn  &c. 

131  Mechain  is  koed  :  ifer:  voel  ap  jfevare  Sais  &c. 
Ardvdwy :  bleiddvdd  ap  kariadoc  ap  ^evanawl  &c. 
kyfeilioc,  II.  gvric :  D.  llwyd  Jiu  ap  morys  ap  lio'l  ap  Hu  &c. 
Darowen  :  lewys  ap  ho'l  ap  mad:  ap  gr:  ap  ^er:  &c. 

132  Mathafarn:  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  fin  &c. 
IL.  bryn  mair  :  p,  D.  ap  ho'l  ap  Owain  ap  gr:  ap  0.  &c. 
Tal  erddic  :  *tm  ap  ^.  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  mred:  ap  ftn  v'n  &c. 

133  Aber  ****,  poivi/s  :  Edw:  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  D.   &c. 
Gr:  ffodyn  ap  D.  vychan  ap  D.  ap  kadwaladr  &c. 

kaer  eivion :  Henri  ap  D.  gethin  ap  gr:  goch  ap  Mred:  &c. 
ydeirnion :  Ph:  ap  Tho:  up  ttn  ap  Mad:  ap  Gr:  Ac. 

134  k.  llechwedd  vchaf :  p.  W.  ysgwier  ap  gr:  ap  Robin  ap  gr:  &c. 
138  A.  vwch  dulas :  p.  Eeinallt  konwy  ap  hvw  k.  ap  Eob:  ap  gr: 

goch  =  hvw/  harri   &c.        obifus  hvw  kouwy  ap  Reinallt  k.  1541  Nov.  28 
140  ILuyn  :  p.  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  ho'l  ap  Mad:  &c. 

142  p.  syr  J.  glyn  ap  syr  gr:  ap  J.  ap  tiidr  —  'D'W./  D"'  Sieflfre 
y  krevddyn :  p.   D.  ap  Robin  ap  Itn  ap  gwrgenav 

143  arwystli :  ^emwnt  llwyd  ap  morys  ap   ho'l  ap  Mred:  &c. 
aerddren,  penllyn :  Elisse  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  &c. 

144  Penllyn :  Rys  ap  ftn  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 
II.  y  Ml :  J.  ap  f .  ap  Mred:  ap  Owain  &c. 
Tudr  penllyn  ap  f.  ap  ^er:  voel  &c. 

7/  rriw  yn  llyn :  p.  D.  ap  Mred;  ap  ho'l  ap  tudr  &c. 

145  Penllyn  :  p.  ho'l  v'n  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  'Jankyn  &c. 
glan  llyn  tegid :  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 
llan  iwllyn  :  p.  J.  ap  if.  ap  R.  ap  f .  ap  gr:  Ac. 

II.  ddervel :  J.  ap  Siankyn  ap  Ryu  ap  ho'l  ap  tudr  &c. 
II.  gowair  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  engn:  ap  gr:  &c. 

146  k.  y  krevddyn,  Sir  gaer :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  R.  ap  Hu  vychan  &c.- 
ystymanair  :  p.  J.  ap  J.  vychan  ap  J.   ap  tudr  ap  gr:  &c. 
II.  dderfel :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  "j.  ap  tudr  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 

147  k.  Devddwr  :  p.  [?  D.]  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:   &c. 
haer  einion  vwchkoed :  D.  gethin  ap  gr:  goch  ap  Mred  ap  J.  &c. 

y  trayan  :  D.  ap  hvw  ap  O.  ap  Jer:  ap  hwva  llwyd  &c. 

148  [?  k.  me]venydd :  p.  "j.  ap  lewis  up  Bn  v'n  .  .  .  .  ap  lowdden 
yknwklas,  meilienydd :  Gr:  ap  Mred:  V'n  ap  Mred:  ap  ho'l  &c. 
p.  Mred:  ap  ho'l  blaene  ap  mevric  ap  gr:  &c.  Also  151 

149  3Ieilienydd :  Mred:   ap  Morgan  ap  ho'l  ap  ph:  &c. 

150  JL.  bister :  [R.]  ap  D.  ap  Mred:  vychan  .  .  .  ap  Ph:  Dorddv 
JL.  ddewi  ystrad  yni :  MreA:  ap  "j.  ap  ph:  ap  kadwgan  &c. 
bigeildy  :  Mred:  ap  D.  ap  f .  ap  D.  ap  mevric  &c. 

151  Melienydd:  Syr  Gr:/T. /^.  &c.  =  p.  R.  ap  D.  ap  ho'l 

152  Gwrthrynion,  kenarth,  U.  harmon :  R.  ap  morys  goch  &c. 
hynllaith  :  p.  Mred:  ap  ho'l  =  Syr  Sieffre  person  11.  drinio  &c. 
Mochnant :  p.  Morys  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  ap   ifolyn  &c. 

153  „  W.  kyffin  /  lewys  k.  =  p.  J.  ap  W.  ap  morys  ap  J. 
Yftonydd:  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  gronw  ap  J.  [gethin  &c. 

154,  175  Maelor  S.—{\)  syr  Edw:  Hangmer  ap  W.  hangmer  &c.  &c. 

155  Traws  vijnydd:  J.  ap  Edw:  ap  gr:  ap  ]ankyn   &c. 
Aher  gele  :  Gr:  v'n  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  Mad:  &c. 

156  IL.  Elian  yn  rros  :  J.  ap  Mred:  llwyd  ap  Hn  ap  D.  &c. 
Igy  jj  D.  auwyl  ap  J.  ap  Sn  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 


976  EENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   176. 

158  IL.  Elian  ynrros:  Hu  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  ho'I  Vjcliiin  &c.    ' 

159  Y betws :  Hu  ap  J,  ap  tomas.ap  J.  konwy  ;    ,•■   , 
Eglwysvach:  fefFre  hoWnt  ap  hvw  ap  Morgan  &c. 

„         „  Eeinallt  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ll'd  ap  ho'l  goch  ap  kivnws 

161  „         „  Eob:  ap  beued  ap  rrobin  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

162  „         „  J.  ap  R.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  vain  <fcc.  <  . .    . . 
168    Tegaingl:  lewys  a  Eob:  p.  Gr:  ap  J.  ap  Bn  &c.      v 

167   Trefcilir  :  syr  W.  /  Rys  &c,  =  meib  f.  ap  D.  ap  ftngoch  &c. 
yllyfrymaoll*  [=  pp.  117-71]  hjd  yn  hyu  a  dynais  i  wth 
lyfr  riobm  achor  yr  hvpn  sydd  yn  y  plas  newydd  ymon 

172  yr  loyddgrvc  :  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  E.  ap  J.  ap  gwyn  &c. 

173  JViltyn  yn  hamsir :  syr  W.  herbert  brawd  syr  fors  . 

sir  henffor,  bostwn  o  ddyffryn  avr  .-hTw  ap  Eic:  ap  T.'&c. 

174  syr  W.  argl:  herbert  ap  syi- W.  tomas  &c. 

IL.  deilo  gressyni,  tor  Kil  llwch  athre  ilan  :  Wafgin  hvws  &c. 

176  K.  m[en\ai,  ltre]gayan:  J.  ap  Eydd:  ap  E.  ap  ho'l  &c. 
uvrddrcinioc  ymenai  :  J.  ap  E.  ap  J.  ap  gtm  &c. 

177  Aber  hodni .  Y).  ap  morgan  ap  B.  gam  &o.      .,  ,      ,• 
JL.  voir  ymvelU:  Gr:  Herbert  ap  syr  W.  H.  ogolbrwc  &c;     i>  r 

181  Gr:  lleisson  ap  lleison  ap  Wiliam  Ac.  •      .' 

182  tkadwgon  ddv  /  a  Gwilim  dew/bedo  chwith/ho'l  y  fronn  /a  ). 
ddv  =  meib  i).  ap  ho'l  ap;meilir  ap  ph:  lleison'a])  R.  v'u  &c. 

b.  J.  dvvnii  /  Lewis  a  ho'l  m  meib  ystifin  ap  D.  ap  Hn  Ac.  ! 

183  Brysio:  Jhon  Edw:  sardsiant  ap  J.  ap  jfankyii  &c. 

gefeni:  gofyn  i  Jhon  or  koevty  ach  m^  syssyll  yr  hon  a"  ddoedodd  Jhon  i  roi  i 
venffic  i  gr:  brychan  /  hevyd  dos  att  W.  seissyll  [ap  J.  p.  184]  o  allt  yr  j'nys 
ymhlwyf  tref  wallter  &c. 

184  Mamheilod,  sir  vynwy :  W.  herbert  o  golbrwk 

185  IL.  daf:  My  Plari  morgan,  siaplein  i  Hari  viii,  AcJ:  . 
hasted  gwis :  syr  J.  wgon  o  wistwnn  ap  Mad:  ap  J.  Ac, 
Bran  galed  alias  Bran  Ewerjdd  ap  Emellyr  ap  k.  kjn>vydion§ 

186  Randiredd  meibion  Ednyved  vychan:  Ho'l  a  vr  esgoB  Ilan  elwy  a  .^er:  a  vv 
glaf:  vi  a  gafas  ran  o  Arth  garmon  ....  Rhann  grono  Robin  a  gavas  Robin  ap 
ll'n  ap  gr:  vychan  ap  Edn;  v'n  ao  ai  fforifctiodd  am  ladd  o  hono  to  Gr:  goch  o 
Ros  ap  D.  ap  Mad:  ac  ai  prynodd  henbri  hen  &c.  .  i 

187  iv  maib  kyn:  ap  ^er:  ap  gwgon  =  Ednyvet  v'n,  Groao  Voel,  "Enj^on  ddv,  a 
heilin  sais  yr  hwn  a  voddes  He  gelwir  y  Rhyd  y  boddes  heilin  eto  yn  hir  haethoci] 

188  Millicn  hininod :  D.  miltwn  ap  D.  ap  T.  .  !ip  Kirid  bolhon  blaidd 
kais  vam  iawn  a  mwy  gan  winffre  ap  Ric:  ap  mathe  o  dref  esgob,  ne  iemwnt 

milttDn  o  Ian  ffynhownwen   o  vylltya,  u.  syr  tomas  np  Kic :  person  Han 
viangcl  ynwnfa  &c.  ' 

Mylltvn  :  Firs  np  Jemwn  ap  Jhon  ap  rrobined  -       '      '■■ 

189  Einioii  ap  'Jfigo  ap  gr:   .  .  .  .  ap  brycban  brycheinioc^j,.  &c. 

/).   kywaethav  Mred:  ap  O.  ap  gr:  ap  yr  argl:  R.  =  dyved,  karedigion  tir  gwyr 
a  cbydweli-(i  •; 

c.  V.hlwyd:  Kanclir  Rys  ap  Marehan  =  tref  ben  y  koed  arvapeehdid    .•;  r 

190  Raiidir  Jthel  velyn  ap  ll'n  avrdorchoc:  yn  Jal  ]]ys  y  kilall  &o. 

191  p.  syr  Edw:  stradliug  o  gariad  vercbed  =  pityr  .  .  J.  gwyn  &c. 

193  p.  Masir  T.  y  stradling  =  Edw:  /  D.  /Jhon  &c. 

y  Jtoety  ;  p.  Morgan  gamais  ap  jhon  gamais  =  syr  T.  g.  &c.r 

194  p.  ?yr  T.  gamaid  =  Rob:  arg:  y  koety  heddiw      -7545  &c. 


*  That  "  all  this  book"  begins  with  p.  117  is  clear  from  a  statement  on  p.  20?. 
t  CC  XIX  o  lyfr  John  Saer 

J  kais  yr  ach  ymhellach  yn  y  llyfr  ache  tew  byr  [Pen  MS.  17S,  p.  40]>    '       '.'■ 
§  hen  llyfr  Bodeon. 

i[  yn    llyfr    Jhon    lewis   o   Ian  geruiw    hyn  o    gyfarwjddyd    &ym    golwg  jma 
[?  pp.  186-7]. 
"*  ach  brychan  gan  Jeiian  ap  hvw  kae  llwyd 
ft  llyfr  syr  D.  vychau  o  law  gvtyn  owain  (p.  197) 


THE   BOOK   OF    GRIFFITH   HIRAETHOG.  977 

194  Banff  or  yngxoynedd :  W.  a  Rol.  p.  Reinallt  ap  Rob  .  .  or  trevddvn 
Uvndain  bwtwalan  :  W.  ^ankvn  niab  D.  ap  lankyn  &c 

195  oed  JesBv  1479  hydref  y   bv  varw-/fove,-  ap  jU I  1480  Mawrth   16  bv 

M  J    ;  T'.r^  ^  P  ^°<^'"'  "P  -^^  /  '*3S  Mref  6  b.  V.  Jen  aochap  EdnufedaL 

0  hangmer  /  M.l  a^cc  a  Ixxx,,  pan  Jas  yr  hen  sjlr  Roger  pilstwn*  '  ^ 

llRL^vrT^.uTl/''^™''*"'^^^''^    ^'>'='''^"  '^  gladdwydymynachlocvaragor 
11  Kagvyr  1331t  |  ludr  ap  grono  i  vab  j-nte  a  gladdwyd  yny  livr  tv  deav  ir  eifell 

ip  jrot'cccc"x^,f '"'  ''^'^''''«°''  ^  ^^^^^'^'^  ^"^  ^^'^^  ^"- 1  R^Va7;^" 

onn  Jo  ^  ^o '"  =t5.^'*'=  ''P  ''"'^  **?  ^-  ^'"^  ■  •  ■  "-P  ?er.  ddv  o  bengvvern 
200  JSyr  Roger  Kinastwn  a  Ph.  /  jfankyn  /  W.  =  p.  gr:  o  kynsatwn&c. 
203  I'tcton :  Jhon  Phylip  ap  syr  T.  ap  ffylip  ap  Mred:  ap  ph:  &c. 

hasten  gvns :  syr  Jhon  wgou  ap  syr  Jhon  wgon  hen  ap  syr  harl  &c 
■f     h   T^"  '^^"^ '  P'  ^"^  '•'*P^  Morgan  ap  bledii  =  Morgan  /phylip  /  ac 

,,,„-,  ,„  [ap  bledn 

M'  T.  ap  Morgan  ap  syr  W.  M.  ap  syr  T.ap  Morgan  ap  ll'n  ap  ivor  ap  U'n 
o««   f  ^''^e/Z/e  ;  11  n  ap  morgan  ap  Koesser  ap  Gtm  v'n  ap  gJm  ap  ll'n  ap  bledri 
M7  Ho  1  goch  ap  gr:  ap  ftn  ap  grr  ap  ffylip  Act 

J.  ap  Kn  ap  D.  goch  ap  gr:  .  .   .   .  ap  Mad:  koch  o  vowddwy  &c. 
209   Vr  vc  :  J.  ap  h'ol  ap  R.  ap  1).  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
212  Dinmel:  p.  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  ho'l  =  Rob:/katrin  &c. 

214  llaeiian:  D.  O.   person  nanenherch,  kyr.honwr   11.   elwy,   vicar 
eglwys  vach  mab  Owain  ap  gr:  ap  D.  vychan  ap  D.  ap  mad:  kyffin 

D.  Esgoh  II.   elwy  ap  O.  ap  deio  ap  Hn  ap  enion  ap  kelynin 
dvw  mares :  Siefre  ap  gr:  ap  )okvs  ap  J.  powys 

215  vwch  Rhayadr :  p.  Morys  a  ho'l  meib  R.  ap  gr:  y'n  Ac.    [op  Ha 

216  IL.  silin — Gavel  vad:  v'n  ap  y  moelfrych:  D.  ap  ]Mred:  ap  D. 
Gavel  y  gwely  mawr  o  arth  eryr:  Morys  ap  R.  ap  gr:  v'n 

217  Rvc  :  p,  Rob:  galbri  =  J.  wyn  /  hvw  /  pirs  &c. 
ILangwyven  :  p.  sioa  wyn  salbri  =i  ffwc/pirs/yn  11.  rrayadr  &c. 

218  Dinmael:  p.  Rob.  apgr:  ap  R.  —  Rob:  wyn/f.   .  .  /syr  R.  wyn 

220  Garth  garmon  :  p.  T.  ap  f .  ap  R.  =  Rydderch  /  Rob.  &c.   15^!f 
[Ric:]  blodwol  ap  J.  blodfol  ap  jf.  bach  &c. 

221  Rvthvn  :  Edw:  ap  J.  ap  gr:  jfevan  &c. 

Rlas  Enion,  TL.  voir  D.k. — Roger  ap  Hn  ap  Gr:  ap  J.  wyn  &c.** 
222-4  jK.  vair  D.  k. — Jhon  ap  mred:  ap  jf.  llwyd  ap  tin  goch**  &c. 

222  IL.  lidan  :  W.  ap  bened  ap  R.  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  &c. 

224  Itn  gethin  ap  tin  ap  kyn:  Rwth  &c. 

225  Gr:  dopan  a  Mred:  voe]grwni=meib  Mred:  goch  ap  ^er:  v'n&c.fl 
Devddwr  :  D.  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  ttn  ap  D.  Ihvch  Mathe  kaer 

Enion**  &c. 

226  Powys  :  Syr  gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  .  .  .  ap  kadwgon  wenwys'*  &c. 
Maelor  G. — rrobin  ap  morgan  a]i  ^er:  v'n  ap  ^er:**  &c. 

227  Wigtnor  :  Syr  Siams  krofft  ap  sir  Ric:  k.  ap  syr  Edw:  K.  &c. 
Aberyw  :  Edw;  ap  ho'l  ap  jf.  llwj'd  ap  D.  ap  ph:  goch  &c. 

230  Yr  hob :  Lewys  person  gressffordd  a  wnaeth  yplas  naaen  yn  y 

231  p.  (1)  Gr:  llwyd  ap  gwyn,  (2)  D.  anwyl  ap  gwyn  &c.  [kyme  &c. 

232  Vr  Hob :  p.  D.  ap  Mred;  =  ltd  a  godes  gidao  0.  glyndwr  &c. 
234         „  Rob:  tegiu  ap  Ric:  ap  ^ankyn  ap  tegin  &c. 

*llyfr  S[ion]  S[aer]  hyd  hyn  [  =  ?  |'p.  190,  19.5-6] 

t  '•  IX  hydref  m.ccc.xi  "  (p.  1 94). 

j  "  0  lyfr  Jhon  saer  "  is  in  the  hand  of  Gr:  Hiraethoc  but  the  pedigree  itself  is 
the  hand  of  ?  S.  Vychan. 

§  "  Ll'n  "  is  placed  above  line  ;  if  the  pedigrees  of  the  two  entries  following  are 
correct  the  morgan  after  Zl'n  must  be  a  mistake. 

1[  o  Uyfr  Ho'l  ap  ll'a  ap  Mred:  o  gyfeilioc 

**  llyfr  Sion  Trevor  tf  gvtvn  owain  gida  sir  Dd: 


078  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   176. 

235  Fr  Hob  :  p.  Mad:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ddv  ap  J.  goch  &c. 

236  „         rran  berfedd:  K.  wyn  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  ap  mad:  Ac. 
„         ger  y  plus  tec :  J.  wyn  ap  gr:  llwyd  ap  Mad:  &c. 

237  Dvdlvst:  Edw:  ap  J.  ap  D.  tad  Morys  Edwr*  &c, 

„  Edw:  kinast  ap  Elis  ap  kinastr  ap  J.  wyn  &c. 

238  „  Penlre  Madoc :  Siams  Evtyn  ap  J,  Evtyn  .'ip  W.  &c 
Pentre  morgan  ynvdlvst :  D.  ap  Mad:  ap  gr:  ap  dio  &c. 

239  TL.  gedwyn  :  Edw:  ap  D.  v'n  ap  Mad:  kyffin  &c. 

240  Blodvoel :  Ririd  voel  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

-TT^.f^  ^*»opP>  a  JL.  Jevann  ger  Tref  Esgob,  a  Cholvnwy :  Rist  ap 
-Ho  1  sarsiant  of  arms  &c. 

242  Pywys—y  garth  ar  dref  lydan :  p.   syr  gr:  v'n  o   varsred  o 
frochdyn  &e. 

243  ^.  Edwy,  Elfael:  Ywain  ap  Mred:  ap  Einion  &c. 
Elfael  vwch  mynydd:  kadwgan  ap  gr.  ap  ho'l  sais  &c. 
Meilienydd:  kadwallon  ap  Mad:  ap  Jdnerth  &c. 
Bvellt :  Kikert  ap  Einon  ap  gr:  ap  rrikert  &c. 

,,       syr  Ric:  gethin  ap  O.  ap  Rikert  ap  gr:  &c. 

244  „        Y  raoelwyn  alias  ttn  ap  mred  hen  ap  Mred:  ap  ho'l  &c. 
„       Y  brych  kadarn  alias  Einion  ap  Mred:  hen  &c. 

Brycheinioc :  Tryhayarn  argl:  ap  trahayarn  y'n  &c. 

W.  goch  grythor  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  ap  madoc  &c.  ganto  i  hvn 

245  Tregynon  :  J.  a  ^f.  llwyd  =  p.  Mred:  ap  7o]o  ap  O.  &c. 

&  242  Mynafon  :    p.   gr:   ap  ho'l  ap   j.  blaene  =  Morys  vicar 
Aberyw/  R.  wyn  vaiiafon  /O.  o  dref  gynon  /  .  .  11.  ffynhownwen  &c. 

246  plus  yn  y  llai  ar  trallwng  :  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  syr  gr:  vychau  &c. 

249  Eglwys  nynnid,  Margam :  Gronwy  ap  lewis  ap  Tomas  Ac. 

250  Meifod  ymhowys  :  Morys  ap  T.  ap  Mred:  ap  tudr  &c. 
Bodrychicin  yn  rros :  Tudr  a  Mred:=p.  gr:  ap  jfolyn  ap  Hn  dew 

251  v.  alyn  .  J.  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  Reinalltf  Ac. 

252  p.  syr  J.  pilstwn  iwnstabl  kaer  yn  arvon=  Rob:  /  Rohnd  &c. 

253  Sir  G.  narvon,  k.  v.  gwrvai :  p.  Rob:|  ap  Mred:t  ap  HwlkwnJ 
llwyd=Dr.  Moiys  glynn/ Dr.  W.  glynu/Ric:/  J./  Edm  /  W.  &c. 

264  vwch  givrvai  :  kadwgon  /  Mad:  /  ^er:  goch  yngnad  /a  ]er:   wisgi 

=  p.  rriwallon  ap  kynddelw  ap  gwrydr  ap  dyfnaint 

265  Morfrjn  frycli  ap  gwriad  a  ddoeth  "]  wynedd  7  briodi  Esyllt  ti  kynan 
dindaethwy  ac[iddvn]  7  bu  .  .  rrodri  mawr  &c. 

266  Gr:  ap  kynaa  a  roes  gwmwd  arwystli  )  iva  ap  kariadoc  yngwystl  igynysgeth 
gida  mared  m^  gr:  a  bono  oedd  vambo'l  ap  ^va  ac  yn  arwydd  ar  hyuny  esgobetb 
vangor  yw  kymud  arwystli  &c. 

267  Eddionydd:  p.  J.  ap  Mred  :  ap  7.  =  Mory8  /  O.  /  Gr.§  &c. 
Bledrws  ap  griff'ri  &C.  hais  mwy  llyfr  U.  goch  0  ryri 

268  J.  o  L.  vechen/ Edw:  o  drewen=p.  Mathe  ap  D.  .ap  ho'l  v'nif  &c. 
p.  D.  ap  Mad  ap  ho'l  v'n  o  werfvl  vj,  J.  o.  L.  vylling 

269  Tall  y  llyn  ymeirionydd :  syr  O.  ap  Gim  ap  -f.  tec**  &c. 

270  JLanerch  frochwel — Pywys :  D.  ap  R,  ap  gvtyn  koch  &c. 

,,  „  D.  ap  ho'l  ap  ybedo  ap  D.  ap  Hn  &c. 

271  Aber,  llcchwedd  vchaf:  SieSregr:  brawd  Rol:  gr:  or  plas  newydd 

272  Eglwys  gorbre  sant  ymonn=hen  eglwys  ynghymwd  malltraeth 
Aber  y  pwll :  ^emwnt  ap  Tomas  ap  W.  &c. 

IL.  bedr  y  kenin  :  syr  Tomas  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

273  neiniav  (1)  Mred:  ap^.  ap  Rob:  &  (2)  Doctor  Davis  (p.  275). 

*  kais  mwy  yn  llyfr  Diarliebion 

f  llyfr  Jhon  trevor. 

J  the  maternal  ancestors  are  given  at  great  length. 

§  kopi  0  lyfr  Jhou  Saer  Clxvj. 

1   "  brechfa  55." 

**  a  bynn  a  gad  i  gan  syr  O.  ai  law  i  hvn  yn  ysgrivenedie 


THE  BOOK  OF   GKIFFITH   HIRAETHOG.  979 

274  Eglwysec .-  gwraic  R.  ap  D.  ap  glm  Ac. 

2t.  bedr  y  kenin :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  iln  ap  ^.  ap  Uela  &c. 

275  haer  Rvn .-  syr  W.  ap  J.  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  edn:  &c. 

276  Bj.  bedr  yny  tt.  issa:  katrin  wen  V5  hvw  ap  T.  &c. 

kynan  brenhln  pywys  a  fv  yarw  o.k.  854  ...  a  hj-n  a  gair  yn  y  hroniyl 
dryllioc  o  Landegla  [see  MS.  177  p.  129] 

277  2L.  bedr  yny  it.  issa  :  katrin  wen  v3  hvw  ap  T.  &c.  [wine 
Bod  Silin  :  p.   Rob:  ap  J.  ap   movric  =  O.  /  J.  wyn  /  W.  a  ho'l 

278  IL.  voir  vechan  j  y  U.  vcha  :  Ric:  ap  Rob:  ap  W. 

279  &  271  Gorddinoc,  aber  yny  It.  v. — Morys  ap  J.  ap  rrys  ap  glm  be. 

280  IL.  sain  sior — kinmel :  'Jankyn  konwy  ap  Siams  k.*  &c. 
¥  vaer  dref:  Pira  holant  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  &c. 

281  Maelor:  S.  evtyn  ap  J.  [bwtler  syr  T.  hangmer]  ap  Elis  &c. 

282  JL.  dyrnoc  :  Siors  Salbri  ap  Rob:  S.  ap  syr  T.  ap  T.  ben 
IL.  vfydd :  g.  heilin  aptudr  =  gwenllian  V5  gr:  ap  Mad:&c, 
IL.  ganhaval :  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  Itn  ap  einon  &c. 

283  plant,  wyrion  &c.,  J.  hen,  aer  o  konwy,  o  sioned  stanle 

289  Gwikwair  :  D.  Uwyd  ap  ho'l  ap  gronwy  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
Park  yr  holt :  D.  Uwyd  ap  Edw:  Morgan  &c. 

Hendre  vorvydd,  IL.  vair  D.  k. — Ho'l  ap  twna  ap  ^.  ap  D.  v'n  &c. 
ILanbedr  :  J.  Uwyd  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  twna  &c. 

290  p.  S.  Salbri,  siambrlen  din  bych,  =  tfwc/ ^an/ gr:  /  T.  dreiest 
Maelor  G. — Rob:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  y  badi  &c. 

292  IL.  for  ym  hen  llyn  :  Syr  Ric:  gwine,  vicar,  ap  gr:  ap  gr:  &c. 
IL.  gynoc  :  syr  Morys  niclas,  person,  ap  gr:  &c. 

293  ILanerch  banna  :  Mastr  Rondl  hangmer  ap  syr  T. 
kroes  vsswallt:  p.  Edw.  ap  Mred:ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  &c. 

294  y  trallwng  :  J),  ap  J.  ap  pirs  ap  Hvw  &c. 
Ymwythic  a  phywys :  niclas  pyrser  ap  Ric:  p.  &c. 
Meifod :  syr  J.  y  glyn,  micar,  .  .  .  .  J.  goch  ap  gr:  goch 

gr:  hiraethoc  ap  maethe  vab  mawd  y  glyn  V3  sioned  V3  ddeio 
ap  5f.  goch  ap  gr:  goch  a]3  kadwgon  ap  i).  ap  Adda  ap  mevric 
ap  kyn:  ap  pasgen  &c. 

296  plant,  wyron  etc.,  ]f.  ap  Owain  y  glyn 

297  barwn  kefn  rvc  a  II.  ael  hay  am  :  f .  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  ap  grif  &c. 

298  Merched  Howel  vychan 

299  y  Bettws  a  IL.  gum,  Syr  D.  (person),  ap  ").  ap  Tudr  Uwyd  &c. 

300  IL.  Rayadr  y  mochnant :  p.  T.  ap  Reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  &c. 
Ysbyty  :  p.  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  =  Rob:  /  gr:  /  T.  &c. 

301  Ytrayan  :  p.  gr:  ap  D.  &c.=  Hwva  Uwyd  /  Mad  U'd  /  Tudr  Uwyd 
Dvdlvst :  J.  goch  /  mad :  koch  /  enion  goch  =  p.  gr:  ddv  ap  D:  &c. 

302  „  p.  f .  op  ho'l  v'n  =  Rob:  /  Ric:  /J.  wyn  &c 
Ymwythic :  J.  brvwer  ap  D.  ap  sieffre  kinast  &c. 

308  MalUraeth  :  J.  ap  J.  ap  J.  ap  [Bn]  ap  D.  goch  &c. 

k.  menai,  bryn  gwallan  :  W.  ap  J.  ap  W.  ap  Jolyn  &c. 

304  Trefdraeth :  syr  D.,  person,  ap  O.  ap  R.  ap  |.  dec  &c. 

305  IL.  elian :  syr  hvw,  person,  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  Tudr.  &c. 
IL.  vechell :  Glm  ap  Hn  Uwyd  ap  Hn  vychan  <S:c. 

ho'l  koetmor  ap  gr:  v'n  ap  gr:  ap  D.  goch  ap  llowarch  ap  ^ddon| 

306  k.  menai:  Ryrld5  ap  U.  ap  J.  ap  Edn:  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ddv  &c. 

Sir  gaer  :  Robert,  deon  Bangor,  ap  rremallt  ap  Hn  ap  gr;  &c.      ; 

307  KaweUyn  :  Ho'l  ap  tin  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  [Hn]  Ac. 

¥..  vair  vechan :  syr  W.,  person,  ap  D.  ap  gwi*  *  ap  ^.  A:c. 


*  kais  mwy  gan  O.  ap  J.  ap  K.  o  ddimeirchion 

f  gan  J.  ap  D.  ap  twna  o  Lan  sanfEraid. 

J  Uyfr  J.  ap  W.  ap  J.  o  law  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  Eys 


9S0  •      PENIAKTH  MANCrWCRIPT   176.     '     ' 

309  Nan  hontoy  :  p.  ho'l  gwynectd  ap  *  *•  koetmor  &c.  =  J.  kpetmor 

310  mam  syr  D.  trefor  o  von  =  anes  V3  #  *  ap  J.  ap  D.  &c.    ■ 
esglysam  vwch  klawdd :  Ed:  ap  D.  alp  Edw:  .  ■    ^ 

311  Penllyn  y  gingevel :  D.  llwyd  a  Moi7s-=  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &e.' 

312  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  v'n  ap  Eng"  ap  Tudr  &c.         .  1551  . 

313  k.  is  aled :  p.  Kys  Mied:  =  m^  Eobart  |  Morys  gethin  &c. 

318  Bronn  giltalgarth,  penllyn:  p.  piad:  byddgam  ' 
Tref  benmaen  :  Morgan  ap  tegid  &<;. .  '    ' 

Gwern  evel :  Traliayarn  goch  ap  ithei  &c.       .         '  '.,  ,   '., 

319  Eys  llwyd  or  gydros  ap  gr:  ap  einion  v'n*  &c. 
Rob:  ap  D.  aZ«a«  Robin  seii  o  6e/j«n^  «ew 

320  p.  kadwaladr  ap  Rob:  =  Elisse  <S^c.  heddiw  issf 

321  Rhiw  waedoc:  p.  EUsse  a.p  W.  IVyd  o  sibl  vj  syr  J.  Pilstwn  '. 
yfionydd :  p.  Rob:  v'n  ap  ho'l  ap  mad:  &c,  , ' 

322  Ric:  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  Tegin  ap  Mad:  ap  Jer:  &c. 

323  yn  y  fljvyddyn  i  bv  Iv  lierbert  i  gwnaeth  ho'l  saer  0  benllyn  y  bont  ar  ledr  eb 
achos  Olid  i  ddy  vod  i  eesiwn  sir  veiriouydd  yn  aber  komvy  ac  iroedd  llif  yn  yr  afou 
val  na  allai  vyued  drwodd  .  .  .  ae  1  gwnaeth'  y  bout  .  .  .  eb  dasg  yny  byd  dnd  a 
vyuai  ddynion  da  i  roi'  iddo  a  ffan  ddftrfv  honiio  i  mvdodd  ef  i  Ian  llvgwy  ac  i 
gwnaeth  y  bont  honno  yr  vn  modd.  '    '      . 

6.  kromleeh  hwva  ynglyn  Uedr  a  gafas  i  henw  yn  yr  vn  amser  am  vod-  hwva  ap 
kyfnenh  pioedd  gavel  hwva  yn  dvvod  i  gysgv  iddi 

c.  plas  Jeuan  Esgob  U.  elwy  sydd  yn  yrnyl  y  giomlech  &c. 

324  Glyn  llvgwy  a  glyn  Uedr :  Hn  a  W.=p.  ]thel  ap  D.  vicar  sgeifipg 

syr  T.  shaliner  ap  Roger  sialiner 

325  mam  llevkv  llwyd  =  Nest  V3  D.  ap  Mred:  ap  D.  &c. 

328  p.  groDO  ap  J.  ap  engion  =  J.  /  fln  /  angharad  &c. 

329  p.  (I)  J.  Madryn  (2)  gr:  Madryn 

330  garth  garmon  :  Rys  ap  Robin  ap  ^f.  ap  ho'l  goch  &c. 

331  Bryn  f.  yngarth  Garmon :  Gr:  api  ftn  ap  ho'J  ap  Eign:  &c. 

332  syr  T.  liangmor  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  ap  jankyn  &c. 
gwTaic  D.  chwith  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  kariadoc  &c. 

333  p.  Morys  gethin  =  kadwaladr  /  Rob:  gethin  &c. 
p.  Edw:  Mathe  =  Edw:  /  J.  /  T,  /  Roger 

334  Ririd  hothon,  44  Edw:  iii,  tad  Ph:  argl:  mwglwic 

hoed  y  jtiynydd,  Tegaingl :  T.  ap  Ho:  ap  Mred:  ap  ho'l 
Bodl  unddon  :  p.  T.  ap  R.  ap  bened  =  wmiTre  &c.  -153^ 

IL.  verrys,  llys  y  kit,  brynn  htcva  :  itn  ap  1).  ap  Hn  ap  kyn:  &c. 
5  Arfe  J.  ap  Elis  evtyn  .  .  .  yn  iFenestr  yn  rriabou  , 
Syr  J.,  person  IL.  V'el  glyn  niyvyr,  ap  syr  J.  person  keric  j 
J.  tcgin  ap  Madoc  koch  ap  kyn:  ap  iddon  &c.  [drvdion  &c. 

336  Glyn  llif  on  :  p.  W.  o  gatrin  v3  T.  mostyn  =  W.  mortyn  /  T,  / 

Ric:  a  sian  /  a  thri  a  fv  eirw  yn  ifenk 
Dinbych:  Elin  V5  S.  kootmor  o  L.  elwy  o  elsbeth  V3  J.  Salbri  o 

heiillan  a  alwni  rai  Jhon  kent  am  i  vod  yn  trigo  yno 
Dlmbech  :  g.  W.  ap  hvw  =  Elin  V3  R.  ap  W.  up  j.  &c. 

337  Eglwys  vach  :  Hvw  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  ap  twna  ap  Edn:  &c. 
p.  D.  llwyd  ap  Mred:  ap  R.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  kracli  &c. 

338-9  Y  Dreioen  a  mecham;  Edw:  ap  Mathe  ap  D.  ap  ho'l  v'n  &c. 

339  IL.  V'el  llychantvn :  p.  gr:  ap  Elc:t  =  T.  /  Roger  /  J.  /  gr:  v'n 
y  plas  dv,  II.  erch  banna :  Jan,  V5  J.  ap  .  .  Hn  U'd,  g.  Edw:  mathe 

340  Betws  garmon  :  W.  ap  ho'l  ap  Rob:  ap  Gim  ap  T.  &c. 

„  „  Gr:  vychan  ap  gr:  ap  U.  ap  ^.  ap  Mad:  &c. 

TLyii :  J.  bodwrda  ap  f.  ap  Mred:  vychan 

341  Evionylh,plas  Oiceln]  Pencoyd  yn  llan** :  p.  O.  gr:  ap  Mov:  &c. 

*  ynkwcria  yr  ach  vcho.     /////)'  kloddaith 

f  kais  niwy  gau  vicar  Uau  sanffraid  ymechain  • 


THE    BOOK   OF   GRIFFITH    HIRAETHOG.  981 

.341  Penllyn  :  syr  J.  ap  R  ap  gr:  ap  grono  ap  D.  ap  ?.  penaran* 

342  So  iT#"  n  t.  S  W  P  ^^  "^  ^•J^'^'^""  =  k.dwalair  /  Edw:  &c. 

343  rvr  a  hro  ^r    nilf'   T/°  '^  "  "  "^  ^'"'''"  ?'="■«<">  ^l-  armon)  &c. 

0-.  ?;-?-^'"  "E  ^■'"  <^ewras  ap  mevrie  llwyd  =  W.  v'n  Ac 
345  Ehdir  ap  R.   Sais  a  ranodd  i  dir   irwnjr  i  dri  raab    Frhn,  ';  v»ii;,.    e  /, 
z   vadoc,   rru^yton  i   vathe  ac  ef  ai  galwodd  r,yc  achos  ctd  yt       ddw™  t'td 

346  Sytlynagwersyllt:  sjv  Ho'l  /  D.  /  morgan  &c.  =  p  Rob  an  D 
ap  gr:  «p  D.  syton  ap  ilad:  ap  D.  ap  morgan  ap  Mad:  ap  elidir  ap  R  sais 

347  IL.  gollen  :  syr  Hvw  ap  T.  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  sytyn 
Gwersyllt :  J.  ap  J.  ap  lewis  ap  T.  ap  D.  ap  er:  &n 

349  W.  eirlont  ap  syr  J.  eiriond  &o. 

o  -^  ^J""  Jton  savaets  l.eddiw  ai  chwaer  arglwyddes  syr  Ric:  bwkle  &o. 

iaO  bwyddmbych  :  if.  ap  Mad:  ap  R.  ap  ithel  ap  gr-  &c  t 

361  W.  ap  Hn  ap  "j.  op  gr:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  v'n 

352  Gressffordd:  Roger  ap  J.  wyn  ap  Rowling 

353  Aber  gele :   W.  ap  gr:  ap  eign  ap  R.  llwyd 

354  sibyl,  V3  syr  slams  basgrffild,  g.  Watkyu  v'n  ap  T.  up  Ro<^er  v'n 
y  krevddyn,  sir  G.  narfon :  Gr:  llwyd  ap  R.  ap  Hn  v'n  ° 
Mad:  ap  gr:  dew  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  Penryn  &c. 

355  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  Gr:  ap  Mad:  kloddaith  AcJ 

356  kydewain  :  Gr:  ap  D.  v'n  ap  D.  ap  pliylip  &c. 

IL.  llyfni :  syr  morys,  person,  ap  gr:  ap  mred:  ap  D.  &c. 

357  SwUt  irgio  fEyrnic  vfiFernol  /  vedydd     .... 
mvd  marw  oergrvd  mor  wargrwth 

kyfeilioc  :  Gr:  ap  ^,  ap  Sn  ap  J.  moel  ap  ho'l  goch§  &c. 
SiefEre  kyffin  a  briodes  ann  V3  argl:  ystraens  o.  k.  1467S 

358  y  bettws,  glyn  gliwys,  trej  vaesyg  *  «  *  .■  Jhon  ap  gr:  llwyd  &c. 

361  Ej.  gelynin  :  Gr:  ap  hari  ap  gr:  ap  Edn: 

362  y  ddiserth  :  Firs  ap  W.  ap  ithel  vychan 

p.  ]f.  ap  Eng:  ap  gr:  o  wenhwyvar  V3  Eng'n:  &c. 

363  TrefAlvn  :  J.  ap  Jolyn  ap  Mad:  ap  grono  vychanf  &c. 

„        „  Gr:  ap  ]olyn  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  J.  llwyd  ap  ho:  v'nf  &c. 

p.  Elisse  ap  morys  =  morys  /  gr:  /  Rob:  /  Rolant  &c. 

364  kloddaith  :  Madoc  kloddaith  ap  Mad:  v'n  ap  Mad:  ap  mabon**  Ac. 

365  Table  of  the  descendants  of  Tiidr  goch,  &  of  Mad:  Aber"-ele 

366  „  „  „  D.  chwith  a  ho'l  =  p.  Dd. 

367  Brycheinioc  :  J.  ap  gtm  v'n  ap  J.  ap  Gtm  .  .   .   .   ap  Enion  sais 
369  Brwynllys :  ]fankyn  Havart  ap  Tom.is  H.  hir  &c. 

371  &  386   Tralhong  .-    W.    Havart   ap    T.  ap   W.    H.    ap  jfankyn 
Havart  hen  &c. 

374  T.  ap  jfankyn  ap  mad:  ap  Ric  :  vawr  .  .  ap  ho:  brawd  Enion  sais 

375  Aberhodnei :  Edw:  ap  gim  ap  J.  ap  morgan  ap  D.  gam  &c. 

378  „  Hopkyn  awbre  ap  ^ankyn  A.  ap  morgan  A.  &c. 

379  Glyn  wysc :  J.  ap  Roesser  .  .  .  ap  ho'l  gam  ap  J.  chwith  &c. 

380  Ho'l  ap  Morgan  or  fforest  ap  E.  ap  morgan  &c. 

380  &  384  Jankyn  klement  arglwydd  haron 

381  IL.  vihangel :  Ho'l  ap  gim  ap  ho'l  ap  gim  dew  &c. 
384  Hirfrynn  :  Ho'l  ap  gr:  moel  ap  mred:  ap  ph: 

*  [llyfr]  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  E.  gida  simwnt 
t  yn  llyfr  tudr  ap  B.  ap  D.  o  law  f.  ap  Mad:  ap  Rys. 
j  llyfr  hen  gida  S[imwnt]  vfychan] 
§  gan  Ric  ap  mred:  or  glasgod  mewn  .  .  yndentvr 
•jf  llyfr  Jhon  S[aer]  clix 
**  llyfr  Elian 


982  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS    176-177. 

390  Rob:  wynstown  ap  watkyn  W.  ap  T.  ap  Jhon  &c. 

S.  ap  ph:  ap  Jhon  ap  ph:  .  .  .  ap  nikol  ap  y  deon  koch  o  vorganwc 

391  Syr  Wat'  Herbart  ap  arjil:  W.  iarll  Penvro  ap  syr  W.  ap  T.  &c. 
Gwent :  Morgan  ap  D.  ap  Grim  ap  D.  ap  gim  &c. 

Glan  wysc :  W.  ap  J.  ap  Roesser  ap  J.  ap  W.  &c. 

392  Brodorddyn  :  syr  Ric:  v'n  [ap]  T.  v'n  ap  Gwatkyn  v'n  &c.* 
Vvionydd:  p.  nest  V3  ]f.ap  Eng"  o  in  ap  J.  kraeh  =  Gr.f  &c. 

393  Evas :  T.  ap  lewya  ap  Jhon  ap  Gim  ap  ho'l  &c. 
ILan  degle,  melienydd :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  v'n 

394  IL.  badarn  vmor :  Ric:  ap  R.  ap  D.  Uwyd  ap  D.  ap  Rydd}  &c. 

395  vwch  aeron :  Siams  lewys  ap  lewys  tomas  [ap]  D.  &c. 

396  kefnkoed :  J.  ap  morys  ap  1).  ap  ftn  ap  D.  blaene 
Maes  banngor  :  Jankyn  wiliam 

397  Aber  ystwyth:  Ric:  hcrber  ap  syr  Ric:  herber  o  dre  valdwyn 
Pictwn ;  p.  Jhon  ph:   o  Elsbeth  V3   syr   W.  gr:  =  Wiliam/ 

Ric.  /  Morgan  &c. 

398  Gicernan  a  chilgwyn,  Aberteyvi  .  D.  IlwydJ  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  T. 
mam  D.  ll'd  =  Dyddgv  chwaer  syr  R.  ap  T.  ap  nicolas 

399  ]L.  V'el  gastell  gwallter  o  energlyn  :  syr  morgan,  vicar,  ap 
ho'l  ap  R.  ap  Enion  ap  morgan  v'n  ap  morgan  (brawd  vnvam  ac  ifor 
hael)  ap  D.  o  ryd  odyn 

400  IL.  badarn:  John§  ap  Morys  (ap  morgan  ap  D.  ap  iin  v'n)  &c. 
Aberystwyth :  Lev^ys  ap  W.  ap  J.  vwyaf  &c. 

„  Gr:^[  ap  Tomas  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  Rydderch  ap 

^euan  llwyd  ap  gr:  voel  &c. 

401  Gwern  leri,  JL.  Vel  gener  Glyn:  Jhon  vychan  ap  Ryddj  ap 
Rys  or  tyw}n  &c. 

402  iL.  V'el  y  krevddyn  :  R.  gwyn  ap  5f.  ap  R.  goch 

403  hyveilioc,  IL.  wrin,  mathafarn :  p.  hvw  ap  J.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
4C4   G-wrthrynion :  p.  E.  ap  morys  goch  o  marged   V3    ]f.  gwyn   o 

lanidlos  [ph:  &c. 

„  Nanmel  y  vaenor :  p.  ho'l  ap  Enion  ap  ho'l  ap 

405  y  vaenor  :  J.  ap  D.  ap  gvto  ap  ho'l  ap  enion  v  «  *  &c. 
406,  65,  84.  Ruthyn  :  Jhon  mvwl  ap  J.  mvl  &c. 


MS.  177=  Hen.  238.  Pedigrees  by  Griffith  Hiraethog  and 
others.  Paper ;  about  6|  x  4  inches ;  404  pages,  worn  at  the  corners  ; 
written  between  1544  and  1565;  half  bound  in  leather. 

The  MS.  is,  mainly,  in  three  different  hands  :  A  =  PP-  7-10,  17-29,  90-2,  148  ; 
B  =  pp.  129-36,  165-72,  175-80,  189-205,  208-26,  251-62;  C  =  pp.  30-76,  80-4, 
85-9,  93-128,  137-47,  149-64,  173-4,  181-8,  205-7,  227-50,  263-404.  Hand  C 
is  that  of  Gr:  Hiraethog  who  has  added  memoranda  throughout  the  MS.  and 
supplied  the  sources  of  much  of  the  contents.  The  following  are  among  the 
authorities  and  books  he  quotes  : — 

Guttyn    Owain:   llyfr  o  law,  41,  265  ;    yn  y  plas    y  maesmor,  354  ;    o   waith, 

ynvdlost,  45,  3S4;  medd  G.  Owain  gida  Simwnt  [vychan],  202. 
Sir  Tomas  ap  Jeuan  ap  Deiliws :  yn  y  llyfr  Uydan  o  Drefor,  41  ;  llyfr  llydan 
o  law,  83  ;  llyfr  mawr  o  law,  293  ;  llyfr  Syr  T.,  99  ;  llyfr  katrin  ywain  o  law 
Syr  T.  gida  Simwnt  [vychan],  229,  252,  227,  237  ;  llyfr  Jhon  ap  E.  o  Eisgoo 
o  waith  Syr  T.  ir  abad  Jhon,  43 ;  &  ?  llyfr  ache  abad  Llan  egwest,  237. 


*  Haw  Morgan  elvel 

t  llyfr  J.  ap  W.  ap  Jhon  o  law  H^ri  hen  konwy 

t  Against  this  name  "4011"   is  written  on  the  margin.     There  are  many  such 
items  of  various  sums  entered  in  the  margins.    D.  llwyd  died  nos  dvw  halan  13S3 
§  "  a  idem  Jhon  " 
"I  '■  a  idem  Gr: " 


THE    BOOK   OF    GRIFFITH-  HIRAETHOG.  983 

^euan  ap  Huw  hae  Llwyd :  llyfr  ^.  gida  Lewis  ap  Edwart,  17,  18,  25,  63. 

Syr  John  Powys  :  qnoth  Syr  J.,  person  Garth  Beibo,  gida  .Thon  Llwyd 

liys  Goch  or  yri,  llyfr,  157.  Mr  Powel,  ysgolaic  y  kyngor,  85. 

John  Brwynoc,  llyfr,  46  ;  medd  yr  hen  llyfr  or  deav,  eiddo  J.  B.,  120. 

Archiagon  meirionydd,  kopi  o  lyfr,  a  ysgrivened  yni/hwrt  enlli  yn  Llyn,  lOt,  160, 
227,  232. 

There  are  references  to  the  Books  of  Syr  D.,  203 ;  G.,  99  ;  ^.  ap  Mad:  ap  Rys, 
39;  Jhon  ap  W.  o  sgefioc,  44,  211,  246;  Rrobin  achwr,  97,  109,  113;  Rob:  ap 
D.  ap  Or:  [ap  D.  ap  y  badi  o  esgles  havod  y  bweh]  287-90  ;  syr  Rys  griffith, 
81,  83  ;  Jhon  Saer,  20,  214-19  ;  Tudr  ap  Rys  ap  D.,  95  ;  and  to  tlie  Books  at— 
Bodrychwin,  "  mae'n  dda,"  218;  Bochrwyd  (with  the  viear),  85;  Bodeon,  145  ; 
kloddaitb,  173  ;  Llan  Elian  (llyfr  hen  berson),  244  ;  Bias  newydd  ymon,  206  ; 
Trefeilir,  354 ;  Ystym  kegid,  100.  There  are,  also,  entries  like  "  medd  D. 
meivod,"  29  ;  "  quoth  Bangor,"  247 ;  and  "  kais  mwy  yn  87  dolen  o  Lyfr  y 
Diarhehion"  100,  183.  This  Book  of  Proverbs  is  evidently  the  one  which  William 
Salesbury  printed  with  the  title — Oil  Synnwyr  pen  kembero  y  gyd,  of  which  but  one 
copy  has  survived,  and  which  is  now  in  the  possession  of  Sir  John  Williams,  Bart., 
M.D.,  of  y  Plas,  Llanstephan.  The  original  MS.  has  apparently  disappeared,  but  Pen. 
MS.  155  seems  to  be  a  copy  of  it. 

7  11  yn  gynwys  Edernion  a  dinmael  ac  ][eddo  dri  mab  Gruff:  a  bleddyn 

a  ifer:  a  gruff  b  gafas  yni  Rann  hat)ner  Ederniou hawys  kad- 

arn  (20)  ....  ends :  Ices  a  briodes  Edw:  vychan  ap  Edwart  ap  D.  ap 
Edn:  gam  ap  ^er:  voel  ac  ni  bv  ddim  plant  vddvn 

.30  Hvw  mortimer  a  ddoeth  gida  W.  bastart  &c. 

32  JL.  gedwyn  :  Rob:  ap  Morys  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  &c. 

33  Kydewain  :  T.  ap  E.  ap  D.  llwyd  .  .  .  i  blant  =  Mathe  gocb  &c. 

35  Kadwgan  ap  gr:  dwnn  ap  ph:  dorddv  &c. 

36  TLwydiarth  :   Kelynin  ap  Ririd  ap  kynddel  ap  ^er:  &v3. 

37  Ho'l  vychan  ap  ho'l  ap  morys  ap  J.  gethin  ap  Mad:  kyffin 
&c.  .  .  .  mam  Ho:  V'n  =  Varfred  V3  ho:  ap  J.  ap  ^er:  .  .  .  mam 
jnarfred  =  tibod  v}  egn:  ap  gr:  .  .  .  mam  tibod  =  tangwystl  vj  Rydd3  ap 
T-.  llwyd  .  .  .   mam  dangwystl  =  Varfred  v}  Gr:  gryc  ap  'j.  vychan  &c. 

yn  vdlvst  mewu  llyfr  o  waith  gvtvn  owain  y  kevais  yr  iaoh  yma  o  h'ol 
vychan  (pp.  37-45). 

45  Mad:  ap  "j.  ap  gronwy  ap  Rys  &c. 

46  JLwyn  y  niaen  yn  s.  g.  oswallt :  Jhon  llwyd  ap  Ric  :  11.  ap  Rob:  &c. 

47  Edeirnion  :  Tvdr  .  Elisse  .  a  Gr:  vychan  meib  gr:  ap  eign:  &c. 
49  \_Mostyn']  :  Pvmplas  mi"  tomas  ap  Ric:  ap  lio:  &c.  (1)  Pengwern 

ynanhevdwy  &c. 

54  Penllyn  .   Gr:  trefgoed  ap  f .  ap  Mred:  &c. 

Tudr  trevor  ap  ynyr  ap  kadvarch  &c.  also  p.  45 

Mon  :  Sandde  ap  kadrod  hardd  ap  gwrydr  &c. 

55  Sandde  /  Mabon  /  Morvcb  a  chadwaladr  meib  ^arddur  &c. 

56  Arglwyddi  mon:  (1,  ysbrydol)  Pen  klas  kaergybi  /  archiagon 
mon /a  ffrior  penmon  (2,  bydol)  pen  mynydd,  gronw  ap  tudr/ 
avddremioc,    R.     ap    tiidr  ap    grono  /  Tref   gastell,  Edn:    ap    tudr    ap 

Gwytherin  :  p.  Rrys  dv  ap  Rob:  =  Gronwy  /  W.  /  Rob.  &c. 

57  Maesmor  yn  dinmel :  Rob:  wynn  ap  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 
67  JL.  dervc'l :  Ho:  ap  gr:  ap  R.  ap  f .  ap  Hn  ddv  &c. 

73  Brycheinoc  :  ftn  ap  ho:  vychan  a  briodes  mawd  V5  ^.  ap  li.  ap 
^for  o  elfael  ac  vddynt  i  bv  vab  =  syr  D.  gam  ac  iddo  1  bv  V3  =gwladvs 
s.  Roger  vachan  a  'las  yn  eginkwrt  &c.  „     ,        „ 

80  Gwenhwyvar  owlbri  a  briodes  Gr:  ap  jfankyn  &c. 

81  *  Heraldry:  Braint  hir  :   maes  asvr  kroes  fliwry  avr  .  .   .  ends: 
Edmwnt  stanle  maes  arian  bend  assvr  &c. 

82  syr  E.  ap  syr  W.  ap  syr  W.  ap  W.  ap  Jhon  &c. 


»  Pages  81-4  are  a  kopi  0  lyfr  syr  llys  gr: 


984  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPT    177. 

82  mameu  syr  Tudr,  heilyn,  gr:  ap  gim,  W.  vychan,  syr  W.  hynaf, 
Kic:  dalton,  syr  Jhnn  'Jvanc  &c.  &l>. 

85  merched  Rissiart  a  Tho:  hackled 

Syr  Rissiart  krofit  ap  W.  K.  ap  Jhon  K.  &c. 

86  Mowddwy  :  Wilkoc  mowddwy  tad  Jhon  arg:  mowddwy  &c. 

88  Kydewain  :  To:  ap  Rys  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 
Qwevrvul  goch  verc.h  gynan  ap  O.  gwynedd  &c. 

89  Kegidva  :  Gr:  Karon  ap  J.  ap  gr:  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  &c. 
Meiscin  ymorgannwe  :  meibion  y  bach  ap  gvvaithvoed  &c. 

90  merched  ^evaf'ap  ttn  ap  kyii:  evell  =  yrddylad  &c. 

91  Hova  ap  f  thel  velyn  o  ml  ap  Hn  aiir  dorchoc  &o. 

92  Tegaingl :  Ednowain  bendew  ap  kynoa  <fco. 

93  Brynn  Evryn  :  Hvw  konwy  ap  Robin  ap  Gr:  goch  &c. 

94  xiv  merch  Grono  Ihvyd  ap  y  penwyn  ai  fab  Ho'l 

96  p.  W.  lioetmor  o  elin  V3  J,  Pilstwn  tir  mon 
Pedigree  of  Henry  viii 

97  Hanmer  :  syr  To:  o  Hanmer  ap  Ric:  ap  gr:  &c. 
Maelor  ;  Jhon  covvrden  ap  Rodyl  kowrden  &c. 

98  Syr  Roger  pilstwn  ap  Roger  ap  John  &c. 
ystryd  alvn  :  Reinallt  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 

99  IL.  evrgain  :  Elis  ap  Jer:  ap  ithel  ap  D.  &c. 
Maelor :  Jhon  almor  ap  J.  ap  J.  almor  &c. 

100  Hengist  Sais  vab  wigilis  ap  wicta  ap  wdeti  &c. 
pirs  llwyd  ap  hvw  llwyd  ap  Jhon  llwyd  &c. 
Elisse  ap  morys  ap  Jhou  ap  icadog  ap  J.  &c. 
^emwnt  ap  Jhon  ap  R.  ap  hwlkyn  &c. 

101  ILamvair  ynyffryn  k. — Jhon  wya  ap  morys  ap  Rob;  &c, 

102  Eiddionydd :  p.  Jhon  ap  mved:  =  morys  /  0./gr:/]f. 

103  Nankonwy  :  Mred:  ap  J.  ap  Rob :  ap  Mred:  &c. 
106  Prys  addfed*  :  m''  W.  lewys  ap  hvw  ap  J.  &c. 

106  Bodychen,  plwy  bodwroc*  :  Jhon  ap  rrys  ap  Sn  &c. 
y  chwaen,j).  trisant* :  Jhon  ap  J.  ap  Qr:  ap  Hn  &c. 

107  Tref  Jer:  I -p.  bodcdyrn*  :  morys  ap  morys  ap  gr:  &c. 

108  Traffwll,  p.  llechykhed*  :  Rob:  ap  ").  ap  ho'l  &c. 
Bodeon,  p.  II.  veirian^  :  O.  ap  hvw  ap  O.  &c. 

109  Tref  veilir,  p.  tref  draeth\  O.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  ^.  &c. 
Tref  Dd :         „  „      fRo'^nt  O.  ap  raeiric  &c. 

110  y  htinv:en,  bodenlli]  :  Hvw  ap  0.  ap  J.  ap  meiric  &c. 
ILaU  veirian]  :  Ric:  ap  mevric  ap  Hn  ap  heilin  &c. 

111  Trefdraeth]  :  Owain  ap  Rob:  ap  O.  ap  mevric  &c. 

112  Malltraeth  :  mastr  Ric:  meirian  person  a  berJJrawJ 
Talebolion  :  Gr:  ap  hvw  ap  R.  ap  Edn:  np  hwlkyn  &c. 
Maelor  /  tegengl :  D.  pennant  ap  tvdr  ap  ithel  &c. 

113  Thi  daethwy,  pen  mynydd:  Ric:  O.  ap  R.  ap  O.  &c. 

114  hasten  lylchioijn,  II.  ddyfnan :  To:  ap  ho;  ap  T.  &c. 

115  Bod  eiliccyn  liindaethwy :  O.  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  &c. 
ymvrddyn  gwyn,  Pentraeth  .  D.  llwyd  ap  O.  ap  rrys  &c. 

116  Yrriwlas  ymhentraeth  :  R.  ap  J.  ap  ifer:  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  &c. 

117  Mathafarnwion :  D.  llwyd  ap  Rob:  Salbri  o  Ian  rwst  &c. 

Oed  krist  1549  Sir  gaer  narvon 

118  kastellmarch,  llyn:  Jhon  siryf  Syr  gaer  narfon  ap  Rob:  &c. 

120  Bleddyn  ap  maenyrch  &C.     medd  hen  llyfr  or  deav  eiddo  Jho:  brwijnoc 
J.  mew  ap  )•  Han  daf  ap  Sn  diriaid  Ac. 

121  Tre  aseth,  rrosvr,  k.  menai:  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  hvw  &c. 
mwsogleti,  II.  genweii :  Hvw  ap  rrys  ap  ho'l 


►  kjmwd  llivon.        f  kjm-wd  malltreth        J  "  1560-73  "  W.  W.  E.  Wynne. 


THE   BOOK   OF   GRIFFITH   HIRAETHOG.  985 

122  Bodowyr,  U.  idan :  Eolant  ap  mred:  ap  rrys  &c. 

124  Mefyrian  :  Rydderch  ap  D.  ap  J. 

125  berw:  Owain  ap  Edw:  ap  O  .  .  .  ap  ho'l  holant. 
JL.  Edicen  :  Rol:  gr:  or  plas  newydd 

IL.  idan .  lewys  ap  Owain  .  .  .  o  vodeon 

126  lLysllo'warchapbran,ll.Edwen:  Hvw  ap,  «*  ap  f .  ap  mad:  &c. 
Mr  J)eon  Bangor  Robert  ap  ^.  ap  eng:  ap  gr:  &c.  [553-65] 

127  Mr  doctor  davis  tomas  ap  U.  ap  Rob  .  .  .  ap  syr  gr:  llwyd  mar- 

choc  o  ddin  orwoc,  "  Esgyb  11.  elwy  1561 " 

129  Mair  vercli  Joachim  ap  ssym  ap  Josswi  &c. 
ssyr  rys  ap  tomas  ap  gr:  ap  nickolas  &e. 

130  ILywelyn  ap  ierwerth  drwyndwn  twysoc  kymry  &c. 

131  Swydd  inhych  :  mastr  Robert  ap  Rys  ap  mred:  &c. 
134  "j.  ap  ho'l  vychan  ap  kwnws  ap  Rys  &c. 

136  Gr;  llwyd  /  ho:  /  D.  anwyl  ac  0.=meib  J.  ap  R.  ap  gr:  U'd 
&  280  p.  J.  ap  To:  ap  S.  konwy=Hn /gr:/syr  D./Rys  &c. 

137  0.  K.  154^  :  p.  gr:  ap  J*  ap  y  koch*  ap  J.  dv*  =  D*  /  Rob:*  &c. 

141  Martr  W.  ap  Robert  archiagon  meirionyddf  ap  Hn  ap  Jthel  vychan 
Penllyn  :  Morgan  ap  J  lion  ap  J.  ap  R.  &c. 

142  p.  syr  gr:  llwyd  ap  gr:  ap  Edn:  vychan  &c. 

143  D.  ap  R.  ap  D.  ap  gim  ap  D.  ap  J.  &c. 

144  koetmor,  II.  llechid :  W.  koetmor  ap  pirs  vychan  Ac. 

145  Mastr  rolant  gr:  ysgwier  ap  Rob:  gr:  &c. 

146  Mon  :  p.  ho'l  ap  Sn  ap  ho'l  y  farf  —  R.j  gr:  /  Jei:  &c. 
k.  yn  arfon :  niclas  fFoxwyst  ap  Jhon  foxys  &c. 

147  Yllechwedd:  Gwenllian  V3  Hn  aj)  morvydd  &c. 
Tegaingl :  Edwin  ap  grono  ap  ewain  ap  ho:  dda  &c. 

148  Penllyn .-  p.  Mad:  ap  Ririd  vlaidd  ap  gwrgenav  &c. 

151  Chwibren,  II.  sanan :  Mam  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  llwyd  &c^ 
o.k.  pan  VT  Tarw  J  ap  ll'n  chwith  ddvgwyl  ystyffant     1435 

o.k.  pan  TV  varw  eiankyn  pigod     1 476 

152  Eglwysec  :  Edwart  ap  E.  ap  D.  ap  gwilim  &c. 

153  hynllaith  a  mochnant :  p.  mad:  ap  Jer:  g03  =  ho:  a  gr:  Ac. 

154  Y  gyifyllioc,  II.  ynys :  Gr:  goch  ap  f.  ap  D.  V'n  &c. 

155  JL.  gefni :  W.  ap  Rolant  ap  W.  bwkle 

Y  tray  an  a  S.  y  drewen  .  D.  ap  O.  ap  f  er:  &c. 

156  S.  ddinbych :  p.  hedd  ap  alvnawc  =  mendr  /  gwrgi  /  a  gwillionon 

„  Ric:  ap  Uowarch  ap  kynddilic  &c. 

157  JL.  rwst :  Hvw  ap  J.  ap  mred:  ap  eign  &c. 

158  IL.  iwllyn,  Penllyn:  Morgan  ap  Jhon  ap  ^.  ap  R.  &c. 

JL.  yMl:  p.  D.  ap  mad:  ap  ho'l  =  Rydderch /syr  J.   p'son  IL. 

159  Ybala  :  mam  D.  ap  mred:  ap  ho'l  &c.  [ykil  &c. 
Sir  g.  yn  arvon :  Hvw  ap  W.  ap  f .  ap  D.  bangor  &c. 
kymytmaen  yn  llyn :  Rolant  ap  Rob:  ap  R.  &c. 

160  JL.  ystvndwy :  Gr:  ap  Robert  V'n  [o  nannav]  ap  ho'l  &c. 

161  p.  D.  llwyd  ap  D.  ap  Robin  ap  gr:  goch  &c. 

162  Brynioc  yn  II.   rwst:  p.  Hn  ap  "].  ap  mad:  ap  R 

llyma  val  i  rranwyd  tir  ll'n  ap  J.— Bob:  llwyd  a  gavodd  hrynioc  /  )  Jhon  gethin  i 
doeth  kaerber  Uan  j  7  Owain  j  doeth  kilvach  ririd  /  ao  yn  rrann  J .  ap  ll'n  y  doeth 
brynn  mynnydd  yn  rref  arth  garmon  &c. 

163  Tegaingl:  p.  R.  ap  kyn:  ap  Rotpert  &c. 

164  Wynoginn,  D.  Uvoyd:  R.  wyn  ap  gr:  ap  M:ad:  Vychan  &c. 

165  Bettws  :  D.  ap  Sn  ap  f .  ap  Kn  &e. 

R.  ap  )anckyn  ap  Hn  ap  Tomas  ap  D.  gam  &c. 

»  The  children  of  the  names  asterisked  are  also  given,  and  Gr:  Hiraethog  states 
that  the  mother  of  y  koch  was  the  famous  Llevkv  Llwyd. 
t  1524-62. 
y  P8430. 


9S6  PENIARTH   MAKUSCRIPT    177. 

166  Maelor :  W.  ap  Mad:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  ap  bleddyn  &c. 
Gwickivair  is  dvlas  .■  Jhon  ap  Hu  ap  ho'l  ap  grono  &c. 
Mon  :  D.  ap  J.  ap  edyn:  ap  gr:  ap  Hn  ddv  &c. 

167  Mred:  ddv  ap  gron:  ap  Mred:  ap  Jev:  ap  II0W3  ap  pran 
Ho:  ap  tudr  ap  gr:  ap  ^er  ap  llowarch  &c. 

J.  wyddel  ap  Mred:  ddv  ap  gron:  &c. 

168  iL.  vigel,  taleholion :  Jack  1,  W.  ap  ftn  ap  ^.  ap  gr:  &c.  2,  syr 
W  ap  W.  vychan  ap  gwilim  &o.  3,  W.  ap  gr:  ap  Eobin  &c.  A,  0.  ap 
Tudr  vychan  &c.  ^ 

169  hymwdmenai:  )ach  /,  Rich:  ap  Rydd}  ap  D.  ap  1.  .  2  O 
ap  ^thel  ap  ho'l  .  .  .  3,  Rydderch  haei  ap  Tddwal  ap  Tutglvd  .  .  '.  4, 
Mred:  ap  Tomas  ap  mred:  ...  5,  Ho'lap  E.  ap  ho:  vychan  &c. 

Pvmaib  Hwfa  ap  kynddehv=  Jer-./f./  kyfnerth  &c. 

170  Ednyved  ap  Hn  ap  aron  ap  Tudr  <fec. 

IL.  vigel:  W.  ap  Hn  ap  J.  ap  gr:  Sue. 

Gr:  maelor  /  0.  vychan  /  Elisse  /  ac  O.  brogcvntvn  =  plant  mado"- 
ap  mred:  &c.  o  1  o 

171  K,.  vechyll:  ^aoh  1,  Rys  ap  Rob:  .  .  .  2,  D.  vychan  ap  D. 
ilwyd  ...  5,  Rys  ap  ho:  ap  R.  np  ho:  v'n  ...  4,  (Jhon  O.  a  syr  D.  O. 
person  pen  morva  a  Dol  benmaen  p,  O.  ap  S.  .  .  .  5,  Roh:  ap:  gr:  v'n&c. 

172  Jack  1,  Ho:  ap  gr:  Derwas  -  ,  .  2,  Ho:  ap  gr:  Trefgoed  ...  5, 
Gr:  Ilwyd  (Eglwys  vacb)  <fec. 

173  31am  Gr:  Ihvyd  ap  ho'l  goch  —  anes  V3  ^thel  ap  Hn  chwith  &c. 
kariadoc  .  grono .  a  R.  =  mebion  Rikert  ap  Einion  &c, 

Ho'l  ap  ifor  ap  gr:  ap  mad:  ap  kadrod  &c. 

174  Rob:  Ilwyd  bwtler  llys  tywysoc  mab  D.  Ilwyd  Ac. 
Betws :  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  &c. 

175  Meibion  kynwyd  kynwydion  =  kynau  gen  hir,  klvdno  eiddvn  &c. 
Jach~-1,  f.  ap  eing:  ap  R.  Ilwyd  .  .  .  (176)  2,  Jthel  Ilwyd  ap 

kadwgon  ap  llowarch  vychan  ...  3,  p.  bledd:  ap  J.  =  kyn:  a  hwlkyn 
.  .  .  4,  D.  ap  gtm  ajj  D.  ap  ^.  .  ,  .  s,  D.  apkyn:  ap  grono  ...  6,  Rys 
ap  Mred:  ap  Hn  vychan 

177  fach  maelor  ssaesnec :  1,  Rondyl  domoc  ap  T.  domoc  .  .  .  2, 
ffylip  ap  Mad:  ap  ^.  .  .  .  3,  Ho'l  ap  morgan  ...  4,  Rondyl  brochdwn 
ap  Rondyl  J3.  .  .  .  5,  J.  a  T?.  meib  Edw:  ap  ho'l  ap  morgan 

178  Maelor  gynraec :  Hvw,  hari,  W.,  a  Jhonn=p.  O.  evtvn  ap  W.  &c. 
Sgeivioc :  Ric:  ap  syr  Jhon  ap  T.  ap  D.  ap  Ithel  &c.        Gr:  Hir: 

179  Jhonn  /  W.  /  Edw:  /  a  Roessier  =  p.  Gr:  Evtvn  ap  D.  &c. 
syr  Jhon  bicar  gressffordd  ap  GrviF:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

Jhon  pilston  tir  mon  /  syr  Jhon  p.  hir  /  Ric:  p.  /  mastr  hvw  p.  /  a 
lawnsoled  p.  =  meib  J.  pilston  ap  J.  ap  Mad:  ap  Rob:  ap  Ric: 
ap  syr  Roessier 
obitus  kanau  brenhin  powys  oedd  854=viii'  liiij/hynn  a  gair  yn  yr  hen 
gronic  0  lann  degla  [see  Pen.  176  1.  276].  Gr:  Hir: 

181   II  The  tvives  and  descendants  qfjeuan  Ilwyd  ap  Gr:  ap  gro:  Ac. 
185  IL.  vair  vechan  :  Ric:  ap  Rob:  ap  W.  ap  Mred:  ap  R.  ap  f.  ll'd  &c. 
187  Maenol  vangor,  Treborth :  Morys  ap  Rob:  ap  Mad:  v'n  &Ci 

189  D.  ap  Edw:  ap  ho'l  ap  Hn  ap  adda  &c. 

llechwedd  vcha :  merched  J.  Ilwyd  ap  gr:  ap  grono  &c.    see  p.  181 

190  Jhon  ap  Ric:  trygarn  o  lyn  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  ap  ^.  ap  kyn: 

vychan  ap  ithel  Ilwyd  y  sydd  yn  llyn 
Trecengl :  Tomas  ap  ho'l  ap  Hn  vychan 

191  ILyma  dilechrav  dosbarth  arvav  megis  i  darpai'wyd  yn  yr 
oes  gyutaf  or  byd  vod  henwav  ar  ddynion  val  y  gellid  wrth  hynny 
adnabod  pawb  /  velly  yn  yr  oesoedd  eraill  gwedi  diliw  ....  mi 
amkenais  drossi  0  ladin  affrangec  yn  iaith  gymraec  gyfran  0  waith 
ymravaelioD  awdvriaid  or  gelvyddyd  hon  (192)  .  .  .  .  nota  geiriar 
barthlo  metos  yn  y  llyvr  awnaeth  o  baentiad  arvav  ....  lliw  assur 


THE   BOOK    OF   GRIFFITH   HIRAETHOG.  987 

.  .  yn  dechre  o  wyn  an  dirywio  mewn  dv  ac  a  ellir  i  wnevthvr  or 
ddav  i  liw  hyn  drwy  gyvansoddiad  messvrol  heb*|| 

198  Eob:  salbri  ap  pirs  S.  ap  J.  S.  ap  T.  S.  ap  hari  S.  ap  W.  S. 
Mamf  hari  S:  =  (marhed)  v3  (syr  'J.)  y  deon  bychan  o  degaingi  &c. 

199  Jthel  a  Kys  meib    J.  vjchan   ap    f  a*  athant  ^  gastell  y  Drewen  ddvw 
gwener  gwyl  gudwaladr  y  xiived  dydd  or  gayaf  ao  a  want  yno  hyd  difie  kyn 
awst  o.  k  .  1457 

201-  kwm  tinmael:  Gr:  ap  O.  ap  bleddyn  ap  O.  brogevntyn  &c. 
204  Bonedd  Twyssogion  kymrv  :  iin  ap  Gv:  ap  fta  ap  f ei':  drwyadwn 
....  Eodri  mawr  ap  mervyn  vrych  ....  Edwart  o  Winssor  &c. 

208  Ypvm  brenhinllwyth  ar  xv  llwyth 

209  Y pvtnp  kostowglwyth  ar  Tair  ber  Jach 

210  Hi  goded  ar  vonedd:  y  byrasgwrn  Tygwared  ap  kynwrio  a  moel  y  voxach 

Tri  lie  raeth  twysogaeth  wynedd  ")  verch  :  Ystrawaul  &c. 

Hyshysrwydd  am  wehely  th  ho II  gymrv 

211  Dehevbarth  :  R.  ap  gr:  ap  Rys  ap  tewdwr  ap  einion  &c. 
JorMeirthiawn  gwrthrynion  :  kadwallOn  ap  Madawc  &c. 

212  Powys  :  Gr:  maelor/  Owain  /  Elisse  =  p.  Mad:  ap  Mred  &c. 
Nanav  arwystU :  Ho'l  ap  ^evafE  ap  O.  ap  trabayarn  &c. 

214  Nanav .  p.  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  =  Mad:  a  gr:  a  ho'l  &c. 

215  Morganwc  :  Morgant  ap  kariadoc  ap  ^estin  &c. 
316   Givent :  Morgant  ap  ho'l  ap  ^er:  ap  O.  &c. 

Dyved :  0  wain  ap  Elen  V3  llowarch  ap  heueid  &c. 

218  kegidva :  Gwyn  ap  Gruff:  ap  beli  ap  Sele  ....  ap  kadellic. 
Penllyn  :  Meiriawn  ap  llenvodden  ap  Eoed  ap  Donet  &c. 
Meirionydd  :  kynan  ap  brochvael  ap  Edynyved  hii. 

219  Ardvdwy  :  Bleiddiit  ap  kariadawc  ap  'jfvianall  &g. 
Ros  :  Howel  varytb  vebinawc  ap  kariadoc  &c. 
Ryvonioc  :  Enor  ap  morvdd  ap  aedan  &c. 

220  Dogveiling  :  Dogvael  ap  dogveiling  alp  kvnedda  wledic  &c. 
Marchvdd :  Edynyved  vychan  ap  kyn:  ap  ]fer:  &c, 

223  Hari  ap  hari  ap  'Jemwnt  ap  O.  ap  Mred:  &c. 
Owain  Glyn  dwr  ap  Gr:  or  Rvddallt  &c. 

224  Huw  Gwyn  ap  Edynyved  ap  Gr:  &c. 

J.  ap  D.  ap  ]f.  ap  y  giwn  Uwyd  ap  Madoc  (fee. 
syr  W.  ap  wiliam  ap  W.  ap  gim  &c. 

225  fach  Rob:  ap  Mred:  ap  Tiidvr  .  .  .  .  2,  syr  Gr:  ap  eingion.  .  .  . 
3,  J.  ap  Madoo  .  .  .  .  4,  D.  chwith  ap  D.  ap  Gr:  ....  5,  J.  ap  Rob: 
ap  Mred:  ....  6,  Uwyd  koUwyn  ap  ke/lan: / lljdd}  ap  Rys  .  .  7, 
Tomas  ap  Jhon  Madryn  ap  Mred:  &c. 

227  Penrryn :    syr    R.   gr:    ap    syr    W.   gr:    ap    syr  W.  gr:     ap  W. 
siambrlen  hen  ap  gwiiim  ap  gr: 

D.  ap  tomas  ap  ho'l  ap  Mred:  ap  ho'l  vychan  &c. 

229  kyn:  ap  Mred:  ddv  ap  f .  wyddel  ap  Mred:  ddv  &c. 

230  Merched  Ho:  ap  ^er:  vychan  o  lyn  lliwon  —  llevkv  &c. 

231  Glyn  lliwon  :  p.  hwlkyn  Uwyd  =  Mred:/ angharad  &c. 

232  llyn  :  D.  Uwyd  vychan  ap  ho'l  ap  ftn  &c. 
Mellieyrn  :  Rob:  ap  Rys  ap  ko:  ap  J.  vychan  &c. 
kefn  II.  voir  :  Ric:  ap  D.  ap  Hn  ap  kyn:  &c. 

233  p.  Mred:  Uwyd  ap  J.  ap  O.  o  gatrin  V3  hvw  konwy  &c. 

234  {Hafod  y  maidd,  Hiraethoc  .•)  Rob:  Wyn  ap  J.  ap  D.  &c. 
238  Abertanad :  p.  D.  Uwyd  ap  gr:  ap  J.  Uwyd  =  Jhon  &c. 

Jhon  ap  ho'l  vychan  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  Jankyn  &c. 
240  Meifod:  p.  f .  ap  O.  ap  J.  tec  =  J.  a  D.  llwyd  .  &c. 


*  Left  unfinished.     See  Mostyn  MS.  113  p.  19,  and  Pen:  MS.  127  &o. 
f  The  mothers  of  the  above  Salbris  are  all  given. 

X  X  2 


988  PENIAHTH  MANUSCRIPT   177. 

241  Penmachno  :  p.  Ho'l  ap  D.  ap  (ho"l  koetmor)  =  J.  /  R.  /  D.  &c. 

244  JL.  drillo  yn  rros  /  y  graian  llyn :  Morys  ap  hvw  ap  W.  &c. 
mon  :  hvw  lewys  hen  ap  itn  ap  ynldylad  &c. 

245  Syr  Ric:  bwkle  ap  syr  Eic:  B.  ap  Rolant 

246  Rob:  grae  kwnstab  rrvthvn  kefnder  Edm:  G.  Argl:  R. 
Derwen  D.  klwyd :  J.  llwyd  ap  E.  &c. 

Grono  sais  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  dwnn  ap  Mred:  ap  Edn:  bendew  . 
JPentraeth  yn  hin  daethwj:  p.  J.  ap  grono  =  tudr  jW./T./  D./  hvw 

247  hynlleth  a  Swydd  groes  Oswalll:  p.  Mred:  ap  ho'l  =  Richard/ 

syr  geffre/  J.  llwyd 
,  y  plas,  fal:  J.  ap  Ha  =  jfankyn/  Gr:/a  thudr  o  vodidris 

248  IL.  gedwynn:  J.  goch,  alias  V  pohynn,  ap  ho'l  maelor 

249  siebseid,  llvndain :  Hopkyn  powel  ap  T.  ap  hopkyn  ap  ho'l  &e, 

250  mam  Mad:  ap  Mred:  ap  bleddyn  ap  kynvyn  =  hvnydd  &c. 
syr  Raff  mortimer  ap  syr  Roger  M.  hen  &c. 

251  Sioned   (gwraig   syr  T.    Salbri)   V3    W.  vychan  ap  glm  ap 

Gr:  ap  heilin  &c. 

253  Marged  (g.  Hari  ap  ^.  hen  o  Salbri)  V3  Gr:  ap  R.  ap  Mad: 

kloddiath 

254  Mam  D.  ap  ]f   ap  Ho'l  =  morvydd  v}  D.  vychan  &c. 

255  Gwenhwyvar  (g.  Ro:  ap  T.  hen  o  Salbri)  v}  Rys  ap  Ein:  v'n  &c. 

256  Nest  (g.  D.  llwyd  ap  y  penwyn,  p.  279)  V5  Rob:  ap  gr:  &c. 

257  Hvw  o  konwy  (gwr  Elsbeth  o  salsbri)  ap  Robin  ap  Gr:  &c. 

258  ssioned  V3  T.  hen  o  salbri  a  briododd  (1)  J.  ap  J.  aer  o  konwy 

(2)  siankyn  ap  Elisse  ap  Griiff:  ap  Einion  &c. 

259  Ydeirnion .   Gr:  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  ]f.  ap  Hn  &c. 

260  Jach  Mair  vorwyn,  brvtvs,  ]facob,  Edw:  iv  &c. 

262-7  and  269  [Bonedd  y  Saint*^  .  Dewi  ap  sant  ap  kyredic  .  . 
Dogvael  ap  'Jthel  ap  kedic  .  .  .  karanawc  ap  korvn  ....  ends. 
dona  ynghrosgoed  ymon  ap  selyf  .  .  .  kadell  ap  pasgen  ap  brvtw*  ap 
rrvdd  *  *  |  vedel  frych.  koUen  up  gwnnoc  ap  koledoc  ap  [kowrda] 
ap  karadoc  freichfras  mam  gollen  &c. 

268  Alls  V3  Edw:  ap  bel  ap  Edn:  ap  J.  ddv  o  ymyl  pwl  gwepra 
Mwsoglen  :  p.  Hvw  ap  E.  ap  ho'l  =  R.  wyn  /annes  &c. 

270  Mad:  ap  gr:  maelor  o  rocs  dref  dan  ardreth  ynddi  yn  ddi  dreth 

kyllch  Da  gwassanaetli  on  talv  viiii"  xl''   vjs  viij''         .  -1224  . 
p.  Rolant  gr:  o  (1)  gatrin  llwyd  (2)  anes  V3  vorys  ap  J.  &c. 

271  IL.  armon  mynydd  rnawr :  D.  llwyd  ap  W.  ap  mathe  &c. 

273  Croes  osswallt :  Rissiart  Blodwel  up  J.  ap  J.  bach  ap  ^.  &c. 
llwyn  y  maen :  J.  a  Ric:  =  meib  Mred:  ap  W.  ap  gr:  &c. 

274  kymer  glan  alwen,  JL.  gar:  Hvw  ap  W.  ap  gr:  &c. 

275  Robert    ffletsier   (ap   Roger  ap   Rob:   &c.)   sirif    sir   ddinbych 

heddiw     1560 

276  y  kyndy  IL.  armon  mynydd  rnawr,  a  moel  win  dec  JL.  verrys  : 
T.  ap  morys  ap  R. 

277  Ystryd  alvn :  p.  ho'l  ap  'Jthel  wyn         1542-61 

279  A.  gele  :  p.  W.  ap  grono  ap  Hn= J.  /  Hvw  /  Gr:  /  syr  Reinall  a  T. 

280  „         Hend're  gyda :  Mred:  ap  Rob:  ap  '].  ap  engn  &c. 

281  Betws  tcyrion  gwgon:  D.  ap  Hn  ap  ^.  ap  fln  &c 

282  Tr  of  arch  :  D.  ap  E.  ap  Jankyn  ap  Hn  &c. 

kaitell  newydd  ar  wysc,  Gwenllwc :  Morgan  Johns  ap  M.  &c. 
Tref  alvn  :  p.  ssion  trefor  o  ann  .  .  Brochdyn  =  J.  /  Rondl  &c. 

283  Nanklyn  gynon :  Hn  bodkroes  np  Gr:  ap  kyn:  ddv  &c. 
285  Morys  Jwnk  ap  ]ankyn  vachan  ap  Morgan  &c. 

J.  ap  mad:  ap  J.  ap  mad:  ddv  ap  Jolo  goch  ap  J.  ap  Einon  &c. 
Yr  Hob  :  p.  Jhon  trevor  =  Rob:  /  Hvw  /  Edw:  /  Elis  &c. 

*  Two  leaves  have  been  cut  out  between  page  262  and  page  263. 


THE   BOOK    OF    GRIFFITH   HIRAETHOG.  989 

287   Dyfryn  Uwyd :  Edw:  ap  J.  ap  Gr:  ap  ").  &c. 

Maelor  :  p.  ila  sais  ap  madoc  ap  engion  =  ^er:  /J.  /)thel  goch&c. 

289  hynlleth  :  itn  ap  morys  ap  ho'l  ap  Hq  &c. 
gressffordd  :  Lewys  ap  Rob:  ap  L».  ap  gr:  ap  D.  sytyn  &c. 
esglei  havod  y  hwch :  Kob:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  y  badi  &c. 

yn-  ilyfr  Robert  ap  D.  ap  gr:  i  had  y  ddwij  ddolen  hynn  =  pp.  S87-9O 

290  Hiraethoc  :  engion  lydau  ap  deikws  ap  kyn:  &e. 
p.  syr  hvvv  ap  Rob:  person  llaufor  —  'I'omas  &c. 
Penmaen :  Gr:  ap  ]f.  ap  D.  ap  engion  &e. 

291-8  Ej.  vfydd :  p.  Lewys  ap  Tudr  ap  ^.  =  ■j.  gwyn  (p.  298)  hvw, 
J.udr  &C.  kopi  yw  hwn  air  yngair  o  lyfr  a  wnaeth 

Robert  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  alias  Robin  achwr  .  1557  . 
299  NatMyn  gynon  -.  J.  ap  R.  ap  Gr:  ap  Edw: 

301  Tre  r  tybrith,  JL.  rwst :  D.  ap  Hn  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  J.  U'd 

302  branes  :  Rob:  up  rreiuallt  ap  gr:  ap  R. 

lleifod ;  p.  D.  Uwyd  ap  J.  ap  O.  ap  f .  tec  =  J.  /  D.  Uwyd  &c. 

503  Garth  garmon  gam  rryd  Lanvair  :  p.  O.  ap  R.  wyn  ap 

Rob:  salbri  =  J.  &c. 
Hafod  y  dref,  tir  yr  abad :  p.  Gr:  ap  Edw:  ap  Hvw  =  sion  Ac. 
JL.  gwm,  dinmel :  Morys  ap  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  tudur  &c. 

504  „  ,,  Rys  wyn  ap  Mred  ap  Tudr  ap  J.  Uwyd  &c. 
y  ddwyfan :  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  ap  tudr  ap  O.  &c. 

maesmor  yriinjnel :  merched  Gr.  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  ho'l  Ac. 
305  IL.  voir  yn  yffryn  Uwyd  :  J.  ap  Mred:  ap  J.  Uwyd 
307  heric  ydrvdion  :  Jhon  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  engion  Uwyd  &c. 

508  Fenny  berth  ymhlwy  pedroc :  brawd  hyna  D.  Uwyd  ap  T.  ap  J. 

ap  Tomas  &c. 
merched  fihel  ddv  0  l^^n  =  g.  ho'l  koetraor  &c. 
keidio  yn  llyn  :  p.  D.  Uwj'd  vychan  =  katrin  g.  Rob:  o  gastell 

march     .   1S5§  . 

509  Tre  lechryd,  TL.  vfvdd :  p.  'j.  ap  Tudr  ap  f.=hvw  a  sian  .  ^557. 
IL.  ganhaval:  Rob:  ap  gr:  ap  Ha  ap  Enion 

310  Pant  glas  Dyff:  h. — Ric:  a^j  hvw  ap  Jhon  ap  ftn  Ac. 
kastell  ynghaer  Enion :  syr  To:  lewys  ap  Hn  &c. 

311  IL.  rrayadr,  kaerserwyd :  J.  Uwyd  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  D.  Ac. 
Bryn  llverth  :  To:  ap  D.  ap  J.  ap  D.  Ac, 

512  Nanlglyn  :  p.  J.  ap  J.  ap  R.  ap  Hn  bodkros 
D.  ap  J.  ap  tin  ap  Mad:  ap  D.  gethin  Ac. 

313  1).  ap  mad:  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  Ac. 

314  Bodrychtvin  :  p.  gr:  ap  Mad:  ap  Edn:  =  Ric.  /  Rob:  Ac. 
515   Garth  ewin  :  p.  R.  ap  Mad:  ap  Edn:  —  D.  /  Rob:  Ac. 

„         „       I),  ap  gr:  ap  D.  vychan  ap  iin  Ac. 

517  Gwikwair  :  p.  Edn:  ap  R.  Uwyd  =  To:  /  J.  Ac. 

518  Bodowryd:  p.  hvw  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  iin  ap  gr:  Ac. 

319  li.  lliwon  I  arionell  llechryd :  Ric:  ap  W.  ap  Hu  ap  gim  Ac. 
530  p-  M"'  W.  Uwyd  o  marged  pilstwn       .  155§  . 

Bodychen  :  p.  J.  ap  R.  ap  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  Ac. 
521  Bryn  ysgvborie :  O.  anwyl  ap  Edw:  ap  gr:  Ac. 

tro  koed  yrrygyn :  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  D.  Ac. 

ifridd  bryssor  bryn  kelynoc :  Hvw  ap  O.  ap  W. 

322  plas  yn  m.  dehwyn :  Jankyn  ap  R.  a  briodes  vj  J.  krach  &c. 

323  Gydros  :  R.  Uwyd  ap  gr:  Eign:  vychan  Ac. 

524  kroes  osswallt :  Mad:  ap  ho'l  ap  gr:  ap  J.  v  n  Ac. 

525  tre  beniarth,  powys :  J.  dymor  ap  To:  ap  J  ap  gr:  goch 

JL  gollen  :  Edw:  ap  Adda  ap  ]ankyn  ap  D.  ap  kwnws  Ac. 

526  JLyn:  Mad:  v'n  ap  Hn  v'n  ap  gr:  ap  f.  U'd  0  ddinorwec 
327  Abcrth :  Abram  ymynydd  ebry w     .... 

dial  golled  dolgeUe  syr  Owen 


990  PENIARTH  MANUSCRIPT   177. 

3/?9  p.  D.  iip  ho'l  koetmor  o  levkv  V3  gr:  goch  &c.  '■' 

p.  Eob  ap  Mred:  o  vyfanwy  V3  D.  ap  lio'l  k.  &c.  ■ 

330  Meiriadoc :  "].  ap  Mred:  ap  ).  ap  R.  Ilwyd 

331  Dolgelle  :  Tudr  vychan  ap  gr:  .  .  .  ap  gr:  Derwas 

p.  morgan  ap  ^angyn  ap  J.  =  syr  Eob:  person  IL.  aber  &c. 

333  J.  ap  R.  ap  (D.  ap  heilin  vy)chan  ....  ap  T'  vbngam  &c. 
Rydgav  :  J.  ap  R.  ap  ho'l  ap  Edn:  ap  kwna  dv  &c. 

334  *  *  *  D.  ^.  ap  *  *  *  ap  Hn  .  .  .  ap  Eob:  alias  Hob  y  dili  &c. 
Tref  brys :  ap  Hn  ap  ^.  ap  .  .  .  .  grono  sais  &c. 

IL.  sanan :  p.  Mred:  ap  grono  =  Eob:  /  W.  &c. 
335-6  Fragmentary  '■ 

337  Lewis  ap  Thomas  ap  John  <fcc. 

338  Eys  ap  |.  ap  Eicart  ap  Mred:  gam 
340*  Rys  ap  Rikart  ap  Eydderch  &c. 

342*,  344,  348,  Elidir,  trahayam  a  Hn  meib  kadifor  dyfed 

p.  gwion  sais  ap  heilin  =  gwyon  benarw  a  itiadog 
343   Trejlech  :  D.  ap  goff  ap  Rys  ap  Bn  vychan  &c. 

Gwraic  Gr:  ap  R.  g winiony dd  oe.AdiWi  Rob:  ap  J.  ap  einon  ap  D, 
ap  mevric  kam  o  ystyrlwy  ar  trayane 

346,  352  Tregaron :  Sietfre  velyn  mab  klement  baker  a  ddaliodd 
syr  Gr:  Ilwyd  o  wynedd  ac  ai  delifrodd  ir  brenhin  ...  ef  a  gava» 
benardd  a  gene  r  glyn  ....  wedi  hynny  hwy  a  briodasson  wragedd 
boneddigion  oi  bron  &c. 

348  Cayo  :  Gr:  vychan  a  ho'l  gam  =  p.  D.  ap  mevric  koch  &c. 

349  Gwiniotiydd  :  Tho:  v'o,  /  rrydodyn:  Morgan  v'n  / 

Bvellt:  moran  Dew 

350  syr  Rob:  of  acton  oedd  nai  vab  ehwaer  i  syr  Rob:  0  fal 

Mred:  ap  To:  ap  Hn  ap  Owen  &e. 

351  R.  ap  ph:  ap  D.  ap  E.  ap  einon  vychan  &e. 

352  R.  Ilwyd  ap  E.  ap  Eicert  ap  Itn  ap  E.  chwith  &c. 

kadwgon  vantach  [o  L.  ddewifrefi,  p.  346]  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap. 
Einon  &c. 

353  kwna  ap  Jthel  ap  kyn:  taid  Jhon  &c. 

354  mam    elisse     ap    ]fer:    ap    O.    brogvntyn  =  efa    V5    mad:    ap- 

Gwenwynwynf 
g.  y  giwn  Ilwyd  am  mad:  or  hendwr  =  m}  ayr  gr:  U'dJ 

355  Table  of  the'descendants  of  kyn:  ap  ruwallo 

356  yfionydd:  Eic:  ap  O.  ap  f.  ap  O. 
364  Hvw  ap  ho'l  ap  Eys  ap  ^.  &c. 

365§  ystryd  Alvn—a,  list  of  "  vchelwyr  irevddyn  " :  D.  ap  J.  ap  Hn  / 
To:  ap  D.  ap  Eob:  Ilwyd  /  T.  ap  D.  ap  bleddyn  /  &c.  &c. 

367  Nerthwys  :  J.  ap  D.  Ilwyd  /  J.  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  /  &c.  /  &c. 

368  Pentre  hobin  :  D.  Ilwyd  ap  Edw:  ap  D.  ap  E. 
arddvn  went ;  E.  ap  gr:  ap  %  ap  deikws  /  &c./  &e. 

369  tre  r  arddvnwent :  W.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  &c. 
Hendre  biffa  :  J.  ap  gr:  ap  nicolas  ap  J.  &c. 
Gwern  affylU :  J.  ap  ho'l  ap  D.  ap  E.  &c. 

370  Gwissane:  D.  ap  J.  ap  gr:  Ilwyd/  .  -\  fthel  ap  Hn  ap  gr- 

ap  badi  /  &c. 

371  llii'yn  egryn  :  J.  ap  ^thel  ap  gr:  ap  belyn  /  &c. 
y —  argoed:  J.  ap  hari  ap  ho'l  ap  y  dai  /  he. 

*  The  greater  part  of  pages  337-47  seem  to  be  in  continued  form,  but  the  order  i& 
difficult  to  follow.  The  entries  end  thus;  Gwira  llyfr  yn  Han  arthne  gida  V.  ap 
Jhon  ap  hari  ^c, 

t  mal  Haw  gvtyn  yowan  yny  plas  ym  aessor 

j  inedd  llyfr  o  drefeilir  .  medd  kyfarwyddyd  or  deirnion  nid  oedd  i  Dd.  ap  y 
giwn  vn  mab  ond  tair  merch  .  Kais  wir. 

§  Pages  365-71  contain  lists  of  persons  dwelling  apparently  in  the  same 
neighbourhood. 


THE    BOOK   OF   GRIFFITH    HIRAETHOG.  991 

372  kroes  esgob:  W.  ap  ^.  ap  gr:  ap  D. 

Her  seth  :  Edw:  llwyd  ap'Rob:  ap  Edw:  Ilwyd 

Mynyl :  Hob:  ap  R.  ap  Wiliam 

koed  y  llai :  ^thel  wyn  ap  J.  ap  'Jthel  /  &c.  /  &c. 
373*  trc  r  beirdd :  Ed  iv:  llwyd  ap  W. 

tre  wydd  grvc  :  Edw:  ap  E.  ap  D.  ap  Jankyn  /  Ac. 
365-7  The  beginning  of  an  Index. 
381-404  Index  of  proper  names  A— M.     Imperfect, 


MS.  178  in  two  parts. 

.  Part  It  =  Hen.  MS.  376J.  Pedigrees  etc.  [Paper ;  about  6x4 
inches;  70  pages,  of  which  1-10  are  slightly  imperfect ;  mostly  (pp.  1-6, 
10-18,  25,  31-70)  in  the  autograph  of  Gr:  Hiraethoc,  and  written  circa 
1545  (p.  14)  with  later  additions  by  him;  half-bound. 

Part  II  =  Hen.  MS.  383.  Miscellanea  including  a  year's  revenue 
from  Cwrs  Clera.  Paper;  5|  x  3|  inches;  88  pages  of  which  many 
are  blank  and  a  few  injured;  in  the  autographs  of  Rhys  kain  (pp.  1-11, 
13-14,  36-40,  51,  54-65,  76-7,  80-6)— yZewt  1613  (p.  81),  of  his  son 
Sion  kain,  and  others  :  bound  with  Part  I. 

1  II  Mab  oedd  Siarlys  grosswc  ir  Irydydd  Lewys  bren:  fFrainc  &c. 

2  Aber  tawy :  Syr  Siors  herbert  marchoc  ap  Ric:  ap   syr  W.  )arll 

Penfro 

3  Tref  esgob :  Lewys  gwynn  kwnstabl  ap  jfankyn  ap  Itn  &c.     ' 
kydweli  :  D.  vychan  ap  ho'l  ap  ^ankyn  vychan  &c. 

4  Brycheinioc  :  Ph:  ap  J.  ap  gtm  ap  D.  ap  syr  Watgyn  llwyd  &c. 

5  syr  Sion  gr:  ap  syr  T.  ap  syr  R.  )efank  &c. 
Tegaingl :  T).  ap  lewys  ap  mad:  ap  Hn  vychan  &c. 

6  ystryd  alvn  :  Jhon  wyn  ap  Rob:  ap  J.  aji  gr:  &c. 

7  Abertanad:  J.  tanad  ap  J.  llwyd  vychan  ap  D.  llwyd  ap  gr:  &c.. 
Mred:  ap  T.  ap  Mred:  ap  Isynan  ap  Mred;  ddii  &c. 

tir  mon  :  Jhon  ap  B.  ap  gr:  gronw  &c. 

8  S.  y  wavn :  W.  ap  Reinallt  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  &c. 

9  Edyn:  gam  ap  )er:  voel  ap  ^er:  vychan  ap  yr  hen  ifer:  &c. 
10  Morganwc  :  kariadoc  ap  f  estyn  ap  gwrgau  &c. 

Talgarth :  Syr  W.  v'n  ap  Watgyn  v'n  ap  Roesser  v'n  &c. 

12  &  15  Syr  D.  gam  ap  Hn  ap  ho'l  v'n  ap  ho'l  ap  Einion  Sais  &c. 

13  I'orth  ami  i/n  halyarth:  p.  Roesser  v'n  =  watgyn/  J.  /  Harri  / 

Rob.  /  T  &c. 

16  Sain  nikolas  ymorgannwc  :  Roesser  ap  T.  ap  Roes:  ap  T.  ap  syr 

Roesser  vychan  &c. 

17  Aberhodni:  W.  gams  ap  Hn  v'n  ap  morgan  ap  syr  D.  gam  &c. 

19  \Bonedd  v  Seint^  \\  kynvelyn  ap  bleiddvdd  ap  Meiriawn  &c. 

This  leaf  should  follow  p.  262of  Pen.  MS.  177 

20  plant  Brychann  brycheiniawc  ar  lie  Maent  yn  Gorwedd  yrt 
saint :  Rain  .  .  yn  swydi  Liukol  /  Glewyn  ...  a  orysgynavvdd  ddyhev- 
barth  'Gwladvs  ..aw  wraic  )  wynlliw  ap  Gliwys  &c. 

25  'jack:  'Elian  sant,  Marcbell,  Dyfnoc,  Tuttglud  .  ^  Garmon. 

26  ,,         sioned  V5  S.  ap  Edyn:  ap  gr:  &c.,  g.  J.  ap  T.  o  g.  osswallt 

*  Pages  S72  and  373  contain  list,  of  persons  dwelling  apparently  in  the  same 
°7  ThTl°°e^Vidently  part  of  Pen:  MS.  177-wltness  the  old  pagination,  and  the 
'Tln^X:^  ^^rr  OriS'ally  numbered  7. 


092  PENIAETH   MANUSCRIPT   l78. 

30  Jack  :    Edw:  llwyd  o  Jul  ap  Lewis  11.  ap  D.  llwyd  &c. 

b.      „         Siors  Mathev  ap  s"^  W.,  marchoc  yr  brenhin,  ap  Tomas  .  . 
fvor  hael. 

31  &  66  mils  Mathav  ap  krystor  M.  ap  rrinbrvvnn  M.  &c. 

32  Syrr  Jhon  grant  mikar  i  11.  vleiddan  ar  bont  vaen  mab  Rob:  G. 

33  Rys  ap  gr;  ap  R.  ap  tewdwr  &c. 

33,  50  g.  D.  mathe  hen  =  Gwenllian  v}  D.  ap  gtm  ap  Rankin  &c. 

33  p.  Faen  twr  bervil,  argl:  y  koety,-=  syr  Simwnt/syr  Silbart  &c. 

34  aryl:  y  hoety  heddiw  [c.  1350]  :  Rob:  ap  Syr  T.  ap  morgan  gam 

35  syr  Rys  ap  tomas,  marchoc,  arc/l;  a  harwn  kaeri/w,  ac  arg:  II. 
sadwrn,  Cegyrwavn,  Cil  ssaen,  emlyn,  cil  henin,  aber  aeronn,  II.  Rys- 
dryd,  cloegin,  II.  gybi,  arg:  gwibli  a  II.  dimwr  yn  Mr  gwyr  ap  gr: 
ap  niklas  &c. 

40  Hari  morgan  kynhonwr  o  Ian  da,  siaplen  ir  brenhin,  kynhonwr 
saint  Awstia  ymrysto,  person  y  dre  newydd  ynotes  a  Gelligaer,  ap  T.  ap 
syr  John  marchog  &c. 

41  Lewys  morganwc  penkerdd  ac  athro  kelvyddyd  kerdd  davawd 
drwy  hoU  gymrv  yr  hwnn  a  Elwir  Un  ap  Rissiart  morganwg  prydydd 
a  phenkerdd  ap  Rys  brydydd  penkerdd  o  gelvyddyd  kerdd  davawd  ap 
J.  ap  bo'l  ap  R:  vychan  ap  R.  voel  ap  Rys  goch  ap  Rihert  ap  einion  ap 
gollwyn  ap  ednowain  Ac. 

42  Gwilim  tew  prydyd  a  phenkerdd  ap  Rys  brydydd  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  &c. 
llowarch  g03  ap  jer:  ap  kynan  ap  llowarch  holbwrch  &c. 

43  &  64  JL.  triddid :  Jhonn  based  ap  T.  B.  ap  Siankyn  B.,  arg:  y 

bewper  a  markroes  anantririd  &c. 
44'Siams  tomas  ap  Siankyn  ap  Sion  ap  Jeuan  Ac. 

45  JL.  sanwyr :  Jhon  gwyn  ap  J.  G.  ap  ^ankyn  &c. 

46  aer  plas  y  ras  ymorganwc :  J.  karn  ap  Risuiart  karn  ap  ho'l  karn 
ap  J.  k.  ap  ho:  k.  hen  o  drergarn  o  went 

48  Ysger  lochwr :  Rissiart  lochwr  ap  watgin  lochwr  &c. 

49  yradavr :  Ihoned  vj  Domas  ap  ph:  ap  adam  v'n  &c. 

50  &  70  p.  syr  Edwart  stradling  =  T.  /  Rob:  /  Edw.  /  J.  &c. 

51  Nankonwy :  ISTefydd  hardd  ap  kariadoc  ap  gwrydr 
tegaingl:  kyu:  sais  bynaf  ap  gronwy  or  dref  rydd  ap  Mred: 

kyn  sais  ifawc  ap  ithel  v'n  ap  ithel  llwyd  &e. 

syr  ho'l  y  vwyall  ap  gr:  ap  ho'l  ap  Mred:  &c. 

syr  ho'l  y  pedole  ap  gr:  ap  Mred:  ap  ^er:  &c. 
32  Penychen,  yfionydd :  T.  ap.  Hn  ap  hwlkyn  ap  ho'l  &c. 

vwch  gwrfai :  Ric:  ap  ynyr  ap  Mad  ap  Rys  ap  kadwgan  &c. 
54  kastell  gwis :  syr  J.  wgan  ap  syr  J.  wgan  &c. 
65  Pictwn :  Mastr  Jhon  Ph;  ap  syr  T.  ap  ph:  ap  Mred:  &c. 
56  Pen  llin,  morganwc :  m.  kristor  Twrbil  ap  Jankyn  twrbil  &c. 

58  kae  ho'l;  D.  llwyd  ap  Jankyn  ap  Riq:  ap  Mad:  &c. 
J.  llwyd  0  rvwtyn  ap  D.  ap  ftu  &c. 

hvw  ap  Ric:  trygarn  ap  kyn:  ap  bleddyn  &c.   ' 
syr  Morya  ap  Hn  ap  gr:  ap  f.  vychan  &c. 

59  *  *  *  ymhowys  :  p.  D.  llwyd  ap    m  *  syr  gr:  v'n  =  Wnffre  / 

Roger  /  Edw:  &c. 
y  trallwn :  Robert  llwyd  ap  D.  U'd  ap  D.  U'd  v'n  &c. 

60  Rriabon  :  Ric:  ap  Rob:  ap  D.  ap  tegin  &c. 

61  Rhandir  Jthel  ap  Evnydd:  Gressffordd,  Trefiilvn^lleproc  vawr  &c. 
-2,  heilin  ap  Evnydd :  11.  aelhayarn,  llygadoc,  garthiaen,  Saeth  marchoc 

Ric:  hwtwn  ap  Rob:  hwtwn  ap  Jhon  hwtwn  &c. 
.62  Brycheinioc  :  Jhon  ap  morgan  ap  ]f.  ap  morgan  ap  syr  D.  gam  &c. 
Salsbri :  Jhon  ap  ho'l  ap  J.  ap  ho'l  ap  gim  ap  T.  ap  gr:  ap  O. 
gethin  &c. 


G.   HIEAETHOG,   R.   KAIN,   KWKS   KLERA.  993 

63   Tegaingl:  Ric:  bithel  o  wardrop  y  brenhin  mab  ]  Robert  ap 

■Jthel  Resyfwr  o  man  aw  &c. 
61  iC.  vair  Dolhayarn :  Grono  gethin  ap  cyn:  ap  Jer:  ho.. 

TL.  karfan :  Ka  vath  ap  D.  ap  gr:  goch  .  .  .  ap  ho'l  sais  &c. 

65  Tegaingl:  Jlion  gr:  ap  pirs  ap  gr:  ap  D.  ap  ithel  v'u  &c. 

y  krevddyn  yn  rros :  p.  D.  ap  Robin  ap  D.  ap  gwrgene  v'u  &e. 

66  [3fostyn] .-  W.  ap  T.  mwgston  ap  W.  ap  T.  ap  W.  ap  Roger  ap 

hoesgiu  mwgstwn 

67  kynneddve  medd-dod :  yn  gyntaf  y  dilea  y  [cof  y]  gwasgara  y 
Synwyr  yddysgevlvssa  y  meddwl  &c. 

68  Elan  v}  evdaf  ap  karadawc  ap  bran  ap  llyr  &c. 

69  Vn  post  prif  wedi  y  kyntaf  or  Uoer  enidydd  heb  pechawd  marwol, 
aroh  'Jth  arglwydd  ddvw  a  vynych  a  thi  ai  keffy  &c. 

Paet  II. 

1  Glynn  koedoc  serchoc  da  i  sail  &c.  Hys  hain 

b.  1574  .  .  Pann  grynnodd  .  .  .  arr  dro  byrr  daiar  y  byd 

c.  1587  Dec  .  .  .  melied  wreksam  .  .  .  wedi  dav  fork  doedaf  wir 

2  Oedran  a  diwedda  iengkdid  /  angav   .  .    .    oedran  /  amsser  &c. 

b.  Heddwch  a  faka  kyfoeth  /  kyfoeth  a  faka  Ryfel  &c. 

c.  xn  petfi  y  mae  hrist  yn  enwedic  yn  i  melldigo  ar  y  ddaiar  : 

Dyn  ^evank  heb  ddysc  ....  gwlad  heb  gyfraith. 

3  Nerth  ki  yn  i  ddant nerth  gwraic  yn  1  thafod. 

4  0  hir  weddwdod  i  gywilydd  .  .  .  .  o  hir  chwant  i  golled 

5  Notes :  Mae  awdl  i  watkyn  vyohan  o  dalgarth  yn  y  kwer  lie  mae  kerdd  Boesser 
sais  o  law  gruff:  hiraethoo  i  gyd  &c. 

6  merched  D.  ap  ho'l  vachan  ap  ho'l  ap  ^eva  &c. 
7-11  Extracts  from  the  New  Testament  in  Welsh. 

14  Morgan  ap  Caradoc  ap  ^estin  a  Vorganwc  /  gr:  ap  Jfor  ap  meyric 
o  seinghenydd  /  a  Sytsyllt  ap  Dyfnwal  o  went  vchaf — y  tri  hyn  a 
briodasan  dair  chwiorydd  ir  argl:  Rys  Doctor  Powel236 

15  Of  Armories :  Gwidhomes  ensignes  &  marks  of  Armorie  be  of 
necessitie  to  be  taken  in  hand  for  that  they  ar  deffensive  &c. 

Several  pages  are  devoted  to  the  Basset  family  "that  com  Tvith  the  conq:'' 
23  Notes  by  Sion  kain :  Ar  ddydd  sadwrn  y  borav  y  5  o  fedi  1635  yr 
ymadewais  i  a  Siou  Wiliam  ap  Lewys  gwedi  iddo  gneifio  om  defaid  (a  rhanny  r 
gwlan  rhyngon)  y  devparth  i  mi  ar  trydydd  iddo  yntav  .  Ef  a  gneifiodd  o 
rai  gyrfed  .  x  .  .  .  o  hespinod  .  xij  .  .  .  vn  hwrdd  a  adwyd  heb  i  gneifio  . 
Saith  mamoc  .  .  .  hefyd  ....  wrth  i  sgor  ef  i  hvn  ar  brenn  wedi  i  rannv 
rhyngom,  y  naill  gydag  ef,  ar   Hall  gyda   minnav   mi    a    adewais    gydag   ef    o 

^^25  Dydfraerc'her  29  Mai  1639  wrth  gneifio  ddiwaothaf  i  gadewais  gyda  Sion 
WiUam  24  o  ddefaid  a  6  o  wyn  ag  vn  hesbwrn  oedd  heb  gael  'Sec 

27  Ar  ddydd  iav  11  mehefin  1640  i  gadewais  gyda  S.  W.  Lewys  15  o  famogiaid  | 
4  mollt  .  .  .  .  yn  rhy  gynnar  n  y  vlwyddyn  i  gneifio  wyn  .  See  also  p.  87. 

36  Notes  by  Ehys  kain  :  Mae  yngardd  Huw  Jal,  Roket .  Tarogon  .  ysgallen 

''^'5^'Mfe^of  am  arfae  Doledyrn  yn  Uyfr  mawr  o  law  W.  llyn  .  .  .  .  y  mysc 

y  Rotie  .  .  oi  law  ef  yn  y  bwndel  (pp.  39,  40) kopi  a  dynnwyd  o  Lyfr 

o  Grogen  (p.  38)  &c. 

56-62   The  following  list  of  the  receipts  of  a  bard  on  his  round  ,s  probably 

Thelwal,  2s^/  ^^  Turbrige   ^   /  J^  jj^^   ^^  /    j^^n  Wynn  ifowk,  2s. 

?,1-/.  X';.^ 2../ "^llaweli.  ei./    M^  Dean,  2..  6<f./    M^  smyth   6<^./   M;^C„nwy, 


994  PENIARTH   MANUSCRIPTS    178-179. 

LI  ymenyoli  5s.  6cf/  Llannerch  emrys,  25.  6A/  Gr:  ap  Remalld,  Is./  Trevor 
Is.l  ?al.  5s./  Gwerkles,  26./  Riwlas,  5s./  Huw  Offeu,  2s./  J.  Vn  o  gaergai 
25./  Rhmaedoc,  25^  Krogen,  !«./  llwyn  y  maen,  2s.j  Mortyn,  Is  /  Y  Drewen 
15   &d.l  trrawys:  Rob:  Owen,  Is./  Hanmer,  I,./  Broehdyn,  55./  Wm:  Johnes 

TreffiHgre,  Is./  Treialanmai.  lOs./  Mr  Haumer,  3s./  Pant  y  Bursle;  2s.  &d.l 
Mr  Haumer,  2s     Eglwysec   lOs./  Edw:  Prys,  2s./  T.  ap  J.  o  Lan  y  medych 

^! -^^f  "^  *' ;  ^r^"  ■■.  ?'X'4'"^^*•  ';''•/  Llanddyn.  2s./  Die  glyl  dduw, 
3s.  3rf7  Gw^l  vytlmg,  Asj  Treflech,  Is./  Devddwr,  Is./  LI.  Rayadr.Ss.  6d./ 
LI.  wddyu,  Is.UI       Dtgwyl  Drmiio,  7s.  6d./      LI.  Rayadr,  25,  ill      kJ: 

?Tf.J  /  A      '^  li,^  ''f ''"'''  ^'^■/   ^^''^  ^°°''°'  "oy^'  25.  6d./    Mab  Elis  ap 
,1    !  J-l  ^-^T  ^'"  °  f  >''S«1'  10»-/  Sir  Kio:  Trevor,  lOs.l  W.  Uoyd  Brondl, 
lOs./  Huw  Roberts,  35./  Gwe8tyn,7d./  y  Wavn  issaf,  2s./  LI.  goUen,  3s.  4d/ 
LI.  ga.lr  3s.  &d.l  Midylltyn,  Is/  Brynn .KvnaUt,  2s./  Dud  lust!  6rf./  J.  lloyd 
205./     Morgan  Broehdvn,  20s./     Eobirt,  6rf./     priodas  ymhentre  sianyn,  Is./ 
Emral,  10s./     Halchdvu  ymhlwy'r  Wavn,  Is.  6rf./     Lloran,  priodas,  25.  64  ' 
Diegwyl  mhangel :  ym  mlorfvel,  Is./   yn  Llwydiarth  ddie  sul,  2s.  I    Mortvn 
priodas.  Is./    Ty  Ann  staney  gan  Rob:  lloyd.  Is./    M'  Hanmer,  6s./    March- 
wiail,  20s./  Gwreksam,  Is./  ffelltyn,  2s.  6rf./  Ty  Edw:  Masswn,  Sd./ 
[Total]   23  punt,  a  2s.  6d. 
63-5,  76,  81,  83-5  Notes  by  Eys  kain,  entitled  Myfyrdod,  and  consisting  of 
couplets  such  as  Ni  wyr  treiswyr  na'r  trawsion  j  ai  plaid  ffah  pa  wlad  iffon  &o. 

66-9,   79,  &   87    Notes  by  Sion  kain.    y   Trallwng,   Trefnant  veehan:    kais 
achav  S.  ap  D.  oedd  yn  amser  Harri  8  .  .  .  .  plant  Sion  =  Rob:  Roger  &c. 
12  Hydref  1646  y  galwodd  daw  am  vyngwraic  i  &c.     (p.  79) 

SO  kofha    edrych   am   achae    Robart  'Edward    er    mwyn  ei    vab   ai    dwyn   i 
Gaerlndd 

83  A  table  of  the  descendants  of  Tho:  ap  U'n  ap  C>wen 


MS.  179  in  Iwo  parls. 

Part  i  =  Hen:  MS.  394.  Pjedigeees,  Recipes,  Ac.  Paper;  6^x4^^ 
inches ;  82  pages ;  written  (all  but  pp.  55-60)  by  Huw  Bangor  in  the 
30th  year  of  Henri  viii;  bound  with  part  ii. 

"  y  ddecyfed  felwyddyu  ar  Hcain  or  beranin  hari  wythfed  yrscrifenwyd  y  Uyf r 
hwn  omllawi  hyw  banger  " — on  margin  of  old  vellum  cover,  at  tbe  end. 

1-3,  78-9.  Pvmp  pryniuUwydd  &c.,  gr:  ap  kynan  Ac. 
4  barwnied  hyryn jffanicl :  kynfyric  ap  ^er:  &c. 
9   Tables  of  the  descendants  of : — ]ffan  ap  eican 

11  Rowlic  ssalbri,  tad  Harri,  tad  Tho.,  tad  ssyr  Tho.,  tad  ssyr  Roisier 

12  ssyr  Eoisier  Pilysdwn  lad  Ris  &c. 

13  ffylip,  tad  ssyr  D.  hagnier,  tad  Gr:  &c. 

15  (Plas  y  madryn*).     Gr.,  tad  Howl  tad  11  &c. 

17  ffan  goch,  tad  Mercdydd  lad  Jfan  &c. 

19  ll'n  ap  gr:  ap  11.  ap  trdvr  &c.,  tad  ^thel  vychau  &c. 

21  lleision  ap  Morgan  ap  kyriadoc  ap  ^essdyn  ap  Gwrgant  &c. 

25  7arddvr,  tad  Mad.  [also  pp.  27,  44,  52],  tad  tudr  tad  D.  &c. 

28  D.  [ap  gr:  ap  kyriadoc  ap  T.  ap  Rodyri  ap  O.  gwynedd  &c.]  tad 
howl  tad  D.  tad  Rubin  (lad  katrin,  mam  Owen,  mam  ffwc  salbri,  mam 
WiUam  Salbri*)  < 

29  Syr  tomas  hwlant  tad  tomos  o  hwlant  tad  hwiscin  &c. 

30  D.  goch  ap  D.  ap  gr:  ap  Un  ap  ^er:  drwyndwn  &c. 

31  Gr:  ap  howl  ap  f  fan  ap  ednyfed  &c. 

32  Syr  gr:  llwyd  ap  Rys  ap  gr:  ap  ednyfed  vychan  ' 

33  gwilim  ap  gr:  ap  heilin  ap  syr  tv&vv  (marchog)  ap  Edn  v'n  Ac. 
35  Mred:  ddv  ap  gronw  ap  Mred:  ap  fer:  &c. 

37  kynfric  ap  Jer:  vychan  ap  ]fer:  ap  gyronw  &c. 

89  Ris  bwcyle  tad  Ris  tad  W.,  tad  Rolant,  tad  syr  Ris  &c. 

41  hym:  menai :  Jer  ap  kydwain  ap  llowarch  ap  pyran  &c. 

*  Additions  in  the  hand  of  Gr,  Hiracthog.     See  also  pp.  9,  25,  45. 


HUW   feANGOR,   WONDEKS   OF   BRITAIN    ETC.  995 

42  Tvdvr  tad  Rys  (tad  Gwervyl  mam  ho:  tad  R.*) 

48  Tomas  ap  Rys  ap  D.  ap  R.  ap  Edn:  fychan 

45  gyronw  ap  edynfed  fechan  tad  gyronw  fychaii  &c. 

47  lleission,  vab  morgan,  tad  iferwerth,  tad  gwrcene  vychan  &c. 

43  "  Hughe  af>  William  Sangwr  me  boke  " 

49  )ach  W.  ap  11  ap  'Jfan  ap  gi-ufE  vychan  <fcc. 

56-60  Notes  of  cases  heard  at  Petty  Sessions  in  Anglesey  in  the 
36th  and  37th  years  of  Henry  viii. 

71  A  fragment   about  the   contest   between    the    White    and   Red 
dragons  :  ||  Rvveiniawl  dy  a  gryna  rrac  i  ddiwolder  ef  .....  .  ends  : 

a  hyt  tra  yttoedynt  y  dereicie  yn  ymladd  ywedd  hono  ydderchis 
gortheyrn  i  verddin  i  doydyd|| 

74-5  Table  of  the  ascent  and  descent  of  Arthur 

77  Hac  y  meicyran  :  kymer  ddav  ne  dyri  o  rrawn  <fcc. 

h.  Rac  yryfanoedd:  kymer  saigs  ac  efiuecyr  &c. 

80-1   Table  of"  British  kings:"  Bervts  [= Brutus]  &c. 

82  Recipes :  Rac  y  kagkyr — kymer  rise  pop  pyren  &c. 


Part  ii  =  Hen:  502.  Rhaneu  Aubennic  yb  Ynys,  xiii  Tlws, 
xxiT  Maechoc,  Prophecies,  etc.  Paper;  5J x 4^ inches  ;  68  pages; 
circa  1587  (p.  63)  ;  bound  with  part  i. 

Page  65  has  the  names  of  Re«s  Wynne  of  Llandynau  and  of  J.  ap  David  of 
Bodanwvdog,  in  Denbighshire 

1  a  fragment  ...  (3)  gwedi  trigo  or  merched  hyny  enyd  yn  yr 
ynys  ffrwythlon  hon  heb  wyr  .  .  .  yr  ysbrydion  a  elwid  incubos 
hwynt   amrilhiasant   yn   rrith   gwyr  .  .  .  .  fal  hyny  y  kad  y  kowri 

&c gwedi  hyny  [y  g]orysgynodd  brvtyg  yr  ynys  <fcc. 

5  Then  follow  ranav  urbenic  yr  ynys  &c.  See  Pen.  MS.  163 

IS  Pedair  ynys  ar  ddec  xl  yssydd  .  .  .  kynta  onaddvnt  rodes  a 
enwir  ....  tenodess  &c.  end  wanting 

31  [lLy~\ma  y  tri  thlws  ar  ddec  or  oryfedd  dylysav  ynys  Lrydain: 
lien  arthur  &c. 

32  Gwr  oedd  gynt  aelwid  tobeias  hwn  a  hanoedd  o  ddinas  neptalym 

y  din  as  t 

35  Val  yr  oedd  sar  V5  Rasnel  o  ddinas  rrodies  ymfyniw   ac  vn  oi' 
chwiorvdd  dros  i  hapsen  yna  y  doedai  y  forwyn  wrth  sai-a  na  weloniji 
fyth  oth  gorff  di  na  mab  na  merch  &c. 

37  V  brenhinllwyth  kymrv  a  ffle  yr  oeddynt  &c. 

38  XV  llwyth  gwynedd  a  ffle  oeddynt  &c. 

40  (5«;«d<ii.-  fynvwragamarch&c.  Thoma,  Johnes:, 

41  [Mlibion  ydynyfed  vyi  hioedd  dyffryn  Mwyd :   iudvr  &c. 

43  Or  kenedlaethav  a  fvant  yn  gwladychv  yr  ynys  hon  gynt  yr 
oedd  laith  nylldvol  yng  hymrv  &c. 

y  llyfr  hwn  .  .  a  droed  or  Hading  ynijymraeg  erysbysrwydda  diddanwch 
i  genedl  y  brytanied  . 

53  Fedwar  marchog  ar  hvgain  ofarchogion  vrddolton  oedd  yn 
llys  arthvr  yn  trico  yn  wastad  achyneddfe  natvrtol  o  orchestoedd  ar 
bob  vn  0  naddvnt  mwy  noc  ar  eraill :  Tri  marchoc  avr  dafodioc  oedd 
yn  llys  arthvr  gwalchmai  ap  Hew  ap  kynfarch  adrvdwas  ap  triffin  ac 
eHwlad  ap  Mad  .  ap  vthvr  ac  nid  oedd  na  brenm  nac  arglwydd  ar  y 
S  vrtai  hyny  ato  na  wrandawai  arnvnt  na  ffaryw  neges  bynac  a 
ee  syn?  hwynt  ai  keffynt  ac  wynt  ai  mynynt  ynadl  ai  ofodd  a.  o 
fn  odd        TW  marchoc  gwyry    .    .    ■   bwrt    .  .  .    affrevdvr  .  .  .  ac 


•  Addition?  in  the  hand  of  Gr.  Hiraethog.     See  also  pp.  9,  25,  45. 
f  Three  leaves  have  been  torn  oat  here. 


996  PENIAllTH   MANUSCRIPTS    1'? 9-180. 

alath  ap  lanslod  lak  .  .  .  Tri  chadfarcliogion  .  .  ,  kadwr  ...  a 
lanslod  lak  ac  Owain  ap  vrien  rreget  .  .  .  Tri  Uedrvthiawc  farchoc 
.  .  menw  ...  a  thrystau  .  .  .  ac  eddili  kor  ....  Tri  bren- 
hinawl  farchoc  .  .  nasiens  .  .  a  medrod  ap  Hew  ...  a  Howel  ap 
Emyr  llydaw  .  .  .  Tri  chyfion  farchogion  .  .  .  blaes  mab  ]arll 
llychlyn  a  chadawo  ap  gwanlliw  farfoc  ...  a  ffedroc  baladr  ddellt 
ap  .  .  Clement  twysawc  kerny w  .  .  Tri  gwrthnifiad  farchoc  .  .  morfran 
.  .  sandde  bryd  angel  a  glewlwyd  gyfaelfawr  .  ,  .  Tri  chynghoriad 
farchogion  .  .  kynon  ap  klydno  Eiddvn  ac  aron  ap  kenfarch  a 
llowarch  hen  ap  elidir  lydanwyn  &c. 

56  Short  prayers  entitled: — Emyn  Ttvric,  pater  afi,  y pryffwndis 
yngymraec.  Pater. 

60  Enwau  y  ij;  kwngkwerwr  ai  harfav :  Ector,  due  Josue  Sic. 

63  A  prophecy,  15§7  :  Iloegr  dy  genedl  ath  fradycha  &c. 

64  Pan  ddel  eryr  dros  for  oi  ddevtv  .... 

a  chwfaint  heb  fraint  ar  saint  yn  kysgy  .... 

ar  gwragedd  yn  greirie  ai  koryne  yn  tyfv  /  Addafras 

66  A  prophecy  for    15  79    .    ■   J   flwyddyn    bono    a   ddwc  .  .  . 
rryfel  &c. 

67  A  fragment  ending  :  A  ddamvo  pobol  pawb  ai  kwyn     Tal  Jesin 

b.  Pan  na  chred  gwyr  gwynedd  gwedd  gyfodi  &c. 

c.  Bid  S  wyddeles  yn  weddillion  &c. 

68  Vo  ddaw  byd  an  hyfryd  i  saeson  &c. 

b.  llyma    ymddiddan    a  fv    rrwng    merddin    ac  wenddydd   i 
chwaer  ^c.\\  ' 


MS.  180  =  Hen.  413.  Desckiption  of  Arms.  Paper ;  5J  x  3f 
inches ;  47  folios  of  which  1-31,  44-7  are  in  the  same  hand  ;  l7th 
century;  half-bound. 

The  hand  which  has  written  folios  33-4 1  has  added  notes  in  the  older  part,  and 
signed  "  P.  E."  after  many  of  them.  But  the  writer  is  not  Peter  Elis  himself,  for 
"  W.  Llyn  "  is  appended  to  a  note  in  the  same  hand  at  bottom  of  folio  6  where  iu 
one  particular  the  description  differs  from  that  signed  "  P.  E."  The  hand  of 
Robert  Vaughan  is  found  on  folios  33  and  41''.  The  name  of  Simiont  Vychan  is 
appended  to  one  description  (26'')  by  the  original  scribe. 

1-5  A  description  of  the  Arms  of  certain  British  kings  from  Brutus 
to  Edward  iii. 

Allan  o  hen  lyfr  Har :  p :  11. 

5^-30  A  description  of  the  arms  of  certain  Welsh  princes,  and 
gentlemen. 

301  The  arms  of  John  Bangor  by  "  Gwyan  kinge  of  armes." 

Anno  XXX  v,  Henri  vi 

33-41''    A  description    (in  English)    of  the  arms  of  the  Gentry, 
chiefly  of  North  Wales,  whose  names  are  arranged  alphabetically. 

44-47''  An  alphabetical  Index  to  the  names  on  folios  1-27'* 


997 


A  List  of  the  HENGWRT  MSS.  included  in  this  llEPOnT. 


5.   3  = 

Peniarth  MS 

7 

4 

tt 

4 

5 

if 

5 

7 

» 

28 

8 

,, 

32 

9 

„ 

34 

11 

„ 

1 

12 

^, 

30 

13 

3* 

14 

15 

*> 

19 

16 

>» 

18 

17 

„ 

2 

18 

)J 

40 

19 

)> 

38 

22 

„ 

27  (i) 

23 

>) 

31 

25 

»» 

14 

26 

„  29  &  164 

27 

„  46  &  47  (i) 

[29 

„ 

45] 

31 

j> 

37 

34 

j> 

50 

36 

'> 

9 

37 

5> 

70 

38 

»5 

39 

39 

J> 

35 

40 

»> 

175 

46 

„ 

10 

47 

t» 

33 

49 

» 

11 

50 

W 

21 

51 

») 

20 

52 

» 

109 

54 

» 

16 

57 

>» 

15 

59 

» 

6(iv) 

66 

„ 

159 

73,74 

JS 

77 

76 

5> 

101 

78 

it 

155 

99 

JJ 

147 

104 

J» 

135 

107 

„ 

134 

109 

» 

133 

110 

it 

142 

lU 

ii 

138 

112 

H 

139 

Ilengwrt 

MS.  113  = 

Peniarth  MS.  131 

» 

114 

131 

a 

124 

„      130 

JJ 

128 

67 

>» 

130 

64 

3i 

133 

25 

i» 

134 

a                  51 

i> 

135 

52 

156 

110 

„ 

166 

86 

167 

98a 

„ 

168 

91 

„ 

169 

160 

J, 

170 

93 

>» 

171 

126 

„ 

172 

53 

,, 

173 

166 

„ 

174 

„     27  (iii) 

J, 

175 

„       24 

J} 

176 

96 

„ 

187 

„      122 

189 

„      125 

190 

154 

jj 

193 

151 

>» 

194 

127  (i) 

„ 

197 

90 

198 

145 

199 

171 

200 

104 

„ 

201 

107 

^, 

202 

12 

„ 

203 

72 

,, 

SOG 

140 

a 

210 

165 

212 

158 

215 

116 

218 

27  (ii) 

a 

230 

13 

232 

114 

it 

233 
234 

149 
146 

„ 

238 

177 

" 

244 
246 

88 
76 

247 

78 

" 

248 
249 

80 
79 

998 


gwrt 

MS.  250  =  reniarthMS 

82 

HengwrtMS.  368  = 

PeniarthMS.  137 

„ 

251 

137 

„ 

368a 

»J 

54  (ii) 

ji 

252 

83 

J) 

372 

„ 

121 

„ 

253 

152 

„ 

376 

jy 

178. 

it 

253a 

84 

» 

385 

„ 

178 

» 

254 

81 

>9 

391 

)» 

68 

)) 

256       „ 

176 

," 

394 

» 

179  (i) 

y> 

258 

66 

SJ 

408 

)> 

17 

>3 

259 

56 

>» 

403 

it 

3 

7} 

260       „ 

69 

>J 

410 

»» 

95 

,, 

261       „ 

57 

J» 

411 

„ 

3  &47 

» 

262 

57 

„ 

412 

»» 

94 

„ 

263       „ 

S3 

»> 

413 

» 

180 

» 

264 

59 

*> 

414 

„ 

131 

„ 

267 

161 

)> 

415 

„ 

103 

*» 

269 

60 

„ 

417 

„ 

123 

1i 

270      ,  „ 

54  (i) 

»» 

418 

„ 

150 

*> 

271 

55 

ft 

419 

„ 

144 

„ 

274       „ 

112 

„ 

428 

„ 

136 

)) 

294 

111 

„ 

432 

» 

167 

»» 

295 

75 

w 

436 

»» 

132 

» 

296 

174 

)» 

437 

„ 

168 

»> 

297 

85 

„ 

443 

„ 

127  (ii) 

S) 

299 

87 

>f 

447 

J) 

108 

„ 

300 

92 

)J 

448 

1) 

123  (ii) 

»J 

302       „ 

49 

») 

450 

j» 

48 

JJ 

303 

62 

»J 

455 

„ 

129 

>J 

304 

41 

„ 

457 

„ 

153 

>» 

305       „ 

25 

»J 

458 

)» 

143 

)» 

307 

99 

„ 

463 

it 

8 

,, 

308       „ 

128 

»> 

478 

89 

)» 

309 

63 

J» 

479 

}f 

98b 

,, 

310 

105 

„ 

480 

it 

100 

>» 

311 

32 

„ 

482 

a 

141 

„ 

312       „ 

36 

„ 

482a 

J, 

61 

„ 

313 

23 

)» 

490 

„ 

71 

,, 

315       „ 

44 

„ 

497 

,, 

73 

55 

316 

42 

)) 

502 

tj 

179  (ii) 

„ 

317 

43 

»» 

513 

ft 

117 

S> 

318 

22 

l> 

514 

t> 

lis 

» 

338       „ 

106 

>> 

518 

»)- 

118 

jj 

350 

120 

„ 

519 

„ 

115 

»» 

351       „ 

119 

» 

.536 

JJ 

45 

„ 

352 

163 

„ 

540 

„ 

6&47 

„ 

354 

162 

»> 

541 

») 

170 

„ 

358 

65 

If 

543 

» 

102 

,, 

362A 

124 

„ 

547 

it 

173 

,, 

364 

148 

Pen.  MS 

(old  list) 

23 

»» 

156 

»' 

365       „ 

176 

5> 

32 

)J 

167 

») 

366       „ 

97 

») 

82 

a 

172 

»J 

367 

74 

Pen.  MS. 

uanumbered 

t> 

169 

999 

ClRCULAE    OF   THE    COMMISSION. 

Public  Record  Office,  Chancery  Lane, 
London,  W.C. 
Her  Majesty  has  been  pleased  to  appoint  under  Her  Sign  Manual 
certain  Commissioners  to  ascertain  what  unpublished  MSS.  are  extant  in  the 
collections  of  private  persons  and  in  institutions  which  are  calculated  to  throw 
light  upon  subjects  connected  with  the  civil,  ecclesiastical,  literary,  or  scientific 
history  of  this  country.     The  present  Commissioners  are  : — 

Sir  Nathaniel  Lindley,  Master  of  the  Rolls,  the  Marquess  of  Lothian,  K.T., 
the  Marquess  of  Salisbury,  K.G.,  the  Marquess  of  Ripon,  K.G., 
the  Earl  of  Crawford,  the  Earl  of  Rosebery,  K.G.,  Viscount  Esher, 
Lord  Edmond  Fitzmaurice,  M.P.,  the  Bishop  of  Oiford,  Lord  Acton, 
Sir  Edward  Fry,  Mr.  W.  B.  H.  Leeky,  M.P.,  Sir  H.  C.  Maxvvell- 
Lyte,  K.C.B.,  and  Dr.  S.  R.  Gardiner. 

The  Commissioners  think  it  probable  that  you  may  feel  an  interest  in  this 
object  and  be  willing  to  assist  in  the  attainment  of  it;  and  with  that  view 
they  desire  to  lay  before  you  an  outline  of  the  course  which  they  usually 
follow. 

If  any  nobleman  or  gentleman  express  his  willingness  to  submit  any 
unprinted  book,  or  collection  of  documents  in  his  possession  or  custody  to  the 
examination  of  the  Commissioners,  they  will  cause  an  inspection  to  be  made 
by  some  competent  person,  and  should  the  MSS.  appear  to  come  within  the 
scope  of  their  enquiry,  a  report  containing  copies  or  abstracts  of  them  will  be 
drawn  up,  printed,  and  submitted  to  the  owner,  with  a  view  to  obtaining  his 
consent  to  the  publication  of  the  whole,  or  of  such  part  of  it  as  he  may  think 
fit,  among  the  proceedings  of  the  Commission,  which  are  presented  to 
Parliament  every  Session. 

To  avoid  any  possible  apprehension  that  the  examination  of  papers  by  the 
Commissioners  may  extend  to  title-deeds  or  documents  of  present  legal  value, 
positive  instructions  are  given  to  every  person  who  inspects  MSS.  on  their 
behalf  that  nothing  relating  to  the  titles  of  existing  owners  is  to  be  divulged, 
and  that  if  in  the  course  of  his  work  any  modern  title-deeds  or  papers  of  a 
private  character  chance  to  come  before  him,  they  are  to  be  instantly  put  aside, 
and  are  not  to  be  examined  or  calendared  under  any  pretence  whatever. 

The  object  of  the  Commission  is  solely  the  discovery  of  unknown  historical 
and  literary  materials,  and  in  all  their  proceedings  the  Commissioners  will 
direct  their  attention  to  that  object  exclusively. 

In  practice  it  has  been  found  more  satisfactory,  when  the  collection  of 
manuscripts  is  a  large  one,  for  the  inspector  to  make  a  selection  therefrom  at 
the  place  of  deposit  and  to  obtain  the  owner's  consent  to  remove  the  selected 
papers  to  the  Public  Record  Office  in  London,  where  they  can  be  more  fully 
dealt  with,  and  where  they  are  preserved  with  the  same  care  as  if  they  formed 
part  of  the  muniments  of  the  realm,  during  the  term  of  their  examination. 
Among  the  numerous  owners  of  MSS.  who  have  allowed  their  family  papers  of 
historical  interest  to  be  temporarily  removed  from  their  muniment  rooms  and 
lent  to  the  Commissioners  to  facilitate  the  preparation  of  a  repon  may  be 
named:  The  Duke  of  Rutland,  the  Duke  of  Portland  the  Marquess  of 
Salisbury,  the  Marquess  Townshend,  the  Marquess  of  A'lesbury,  the  Earl  of 
Dartmouth,  the  Earl  of  Carlisle,  the  Earl  ol  Lindsey,  t he  Earl  of  Ancaster, 
the  Earl  of  Lonsdale,  Lord  Braye,  Lord  Hothfleld  Lord  Kenyon, 
Mrs.  Stopford  SackviUe,  the  Right  Hon  F  J.  Sav.le  Foljambe 
Mr    le    Fleming,     of    Rydal,   Mr.    Leyborne   Popham,    of    Littlecote,    and 

'^Th^^tr^/in'^reoS-  reports  and  calendars,  and  the  conveyance  of 
documen?s:%^ll  be'^defrayed  at'  the  public  expense,  without  any  charge  to 

'"^The'commissioners  will  also,  if  so  requested,  give  their  advice  as  to  the 
be2?meansor  pairing  and  preserving  any  papers  or  MSS.  which  maybe  m 
rite  of  decay,,\nd  a.  of  lust^ical  ^^^^^^^  ^„_„^^^^^  ,„  ,,^^ 

th^eToT^entl-^^^^^^^  befble  a^d  willing  to  assist  in  obtaining 

Z  obi^ct^  for  Jhfch  this  Commission  has  been  issued.  _  ^  ^^^^^^^^^^^ 

Secretary. 


1000 


HISTORIC  A.L  MANUSOUIPTS  COMMISSION. 


Bate. 

Size. 

Sessional 
Paper. 

Price. 

».   d. 

1870 

FiKST  Report,  with  Appendix 

f'cap. 

[C.  55] 

1     6 

(Re- 

Contents :  — 

printed 

England.     House  of  Lords ;  Cambridge 

1874.) 

CoUegeB ;  Abingdon,   and   other   Cor- 
porations, &c. 

Scotland.      Advocates'  Library,  Glas- 
gow Corporation,  &c. 

Ireland.      Dublin,     Cork,    and    other 
Corporations,  &c. 

1871 

Second    Rkpokt,    with    Appendix,  and 
Index     to    the     First     and     Second 

Reports 

»> 

[C.  441] 

3  10 

Contents  ; — 

England.      House    of  Lords ;    Cam- 

bridge Colleges  ;  Oxford  Colleges  ; 

Monastery  of  Dominican    Friars  at 

Woodchester,    Duke    of    Bedford, 

Earl  Spencer,  &c. 

Scotland.     Aberdeen  and  St.  An- 

drew's Universities,  &c. 

Ireland.      Marquis     of    Ormonde; 

Dr.  Lyons,  &c. 

1872 

Third     Report,    with     Appendix     and 

(Re- 

Index      -           -                       -           - 

»> 

[C.  673] 

0     0 

printed 

Contents  :  — 

1895.) 

England.      House  of  Lords;    Cam- 
bridge  Colleges ;    Stonyhurst    Col- 
lege ;    Bridgewatcr   and  other  Cor- 
porations ;    Duke    of   Northumber- 
land, Marquis  of  Lansdowne,  Mar- 
quis of  Bath,  &c. 

Scotland.      TJniversity  of  Glasgow  ; 
Duke  of  Montrose,  &c. 

Ireland.       Marquis     of    Ormonde ; 
Black  Book  of  Limerick,  &c. 

1873 

Fourth       Report,       with       Appendix. 

Part  I. 

» 

[C.857] 

«     8 

Contents  :  — 

England.      House  of  Lords;  West- 

minster   Abbey ;     Cambridge    and 

Oxford    Colleges ;     Cinque   Ports, 

Hythe,    and    other    Corporations, 

Marquis  cf  Bath,  Earl  of  Denbigh, 

&c. 

ScoTL.\ND,    Duke  of  Argyll,  &c. 

Ireland.     Trinity  College,  Dublin; 

Mr.rquis  of  Ormonde. 

J878 

Ditto.     Fart  II.     Index    • 

» 

[C.857I,] 

2     6 

1001 


1876      Fifth  Repoet,  WITH  Appendix.   Pakt  I.   - 
Contents  :  — 
England.      House   of  Lords  j    Oxford 
and  Cambridge  Colleges  j   Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Canterbury  ;   Rye,  Lydd, 
and    other     Corporations,    Duke    of 
Sutherland,  Marqais    of    Lansdowne, 
Reginald  Cholmondeley,  Esq.,  &o. 
Scotland.     Earl  of  Aberdeen,  &c. 

Ditto.     Paet  II.    Index   - 


1877 


Sixth  Rbpoht,  with  Appendix.  Paut  I.  - 
Contents  :  — 

England.  House  of  Lords;  Oxford 
and  Cambridge  Colleges ;  Lambeth 
Palace;  Black  Book  of  the  Arch- 
deacon of  Canterbury  ;  Bridport, 
Wallingford,  and  other  Corporations ; 
Lord  Leconfield,  Sir  Reginald  Graham, 
Sir  Henry  Ingilby,  &c. 

Scotland.  Duke  of  Argyll,  Earl  of 
Moray,  &c. 

Ireland.    Marquis  of  Ormonde. 


(Ee-     Ditto. 
printed 
1893.) 


1879 
(Re- 
printed 
189S.) 


(Re- 
printed 
1895.) 


1881 


Pabt  II.     Index 


1381 


Seventh       Report,      with       Appendix. 
Pabt  I.  -  -  - 

Contents  :  — 

House  of  Lords  ;  County  of  Somerset ; 
Earl  of  Egmont,  Sir  Frederick 
Graham,  Sir  Harry  Vemey,  &c. 

Ditto.     Part  II.    Appendix  and  Index 
Contents  :  — 

Duke  of  Atholl,  Marquis  of  Ormonde, 
S.  F.  Livingstone,  Esq.,  &c. 

Eighth    Report,    with    Appendix    and 
Index.    Part  I. 

Contents  :  — 
List  of  collections  examined,  1869-1880. 
England.  House  of  Lords ; 
Duke  of  Marlborough ;  Magdalen 
College,  Oxford;  Koyal  College 
of  Physicians  ;  Queen  Anne's 
Bounty  Office;  Corporations  of 
Chester,  Leicester,  &o.  ,  ^  , 
Iebland.  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Lord 
Emly,  The  O'Conor  Don,  Tnnity 
College,  Dublin,  &c. 

Ditto.    Pakt  II.   Appendix  and  Index   - 

Contents  :  — 

The  Duke  of  Manchester 


f'cap. 


[C.1432] 


>.    d. 
1     0 


[C.1432 

i-] 
[C.1745] 


[C.2102] 


[C.2340] 


[C. 2340 

i-] 


[C.304»J 


3     6 


8     6 


1    10 


7     6 


3     6 


lOul  of 
print.'] 


[C. 3040 

i-] 


[Oaf  oj 
print.'] 


Y  T 


1002 


Date. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


Pricoi 


isSl 


188£ 

(Re 

printed 

1895.) 


1884 

(Ee- 

printed 

1895.) 


1883 
(Re- 
printed 
1895.) 

1888 

1889 

1892 
1894 

1896 
1899 


1885 


1885 

(Re 
printetl 

1895.) 


1885 
1885 


Eighth  Report.  FaatIII.  Appendix  and 
Index        .  .  .  .  - 

Contents  : — 
The  Earl  of  Ashburnham. 

Ninth     Rbpokt,     with    Appendix    and 
Index.    Paet  I. 
Contents  :  — 
St.  Paul's  and  Canterbury  Cathedrals  j 
Eton  College  ;  Carlisle,  Yarmouth, 
Canterbury,  and  Barnstaple  Corpora- 
tions, &c. 

Ditto.    Past  II.    Appendix  and  Index   - 
Contents  :  — 
England.     House  of   Lords,    Earl    of 
Leicester  ;  C.  Pole  Gtell.  Alfred  Mor- 
rison, Esqs.,  &c. 
Scotland.      Lord  Elphinstone,  H.    C. 

Maxwell  Stuart,  Esq.,  &o. 
Ireland.      Duke  of  Leinster,  Marquis 
of  Drogheda,  &c. 

Ditto.    Part  III.    Appendix  and  Index  - 

Contents  : — 
Mrs,  Stopford  Sackville 

Calendar  op  the  Manusobipts  op  the 
Marquis  op  Salisbury,  K.G-.  C*"  Cecii. 
MSS.).     PartL    - 


Ditto.     Part  II. 
Ditto.     Part  III. 

Ditto.  Fart  IV. 

Ditto.  Part  V. 

Ditto.  Part  VI. 

Ditto.  Part  VII.  -  -  - 

Ditto.  Part  VIII. 

Tenth  Report         .  -  -  - 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following  :— 

(1.)  Appendix  AND  Index  -  -  . 

The  Earl  of  Eglinton,  Sir  J.  S.  Max- 
well, Bart.,  and  C.  S.  H.  D.  Moray, 
C.  F.  Weston  Underwood,  G.  W. 
Dighy,  Esqs. 


(2.)  Appendix  and  Index 
The  Family  of  Gawdy. 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index 
Wells  Cathedral. 


Poap. 


8vo. 


[C.  3040 
«■] 


[C.3773] 


[C.3773 
i-] 


[C.3773 


[C.3777]      3     5 


[Out  of 
prinW] 


5     2 


6     3 


[Out  of 
pTint!\ 


[C.5463] 

[C.  5889 
v.] 

[C.6823] 

[C.7574] 
[C.7884] 
[C.9246] 
(Jn  the  Press.') 


3     5 

2     I 

2  11 
2  6 
2  8 
2     8 


[C.4648] 
[C.4575] 


[C.  4576 
iii.] 

[C.  4576 
ii.] 


lOutof 
printl\ 

3     7 


1     4 


lOutof 
print.'] 


1003 


Date. 


1885 


Size. 


1885 

(Ee- 

nrinted 

■  1895.) 


1887 

1887 
1887 

1887 
1887 

1887 
1887 
1887 
1888 

1890 
1888 

1888 


(4.)  AprENDix  AND  Index 

The  Ear]  of  Westmorland  ;  Capt. 
Stewart  j  Lord  Stafford  ;  Sir  N.  W. 
Throckmorton,  Stonyhurst  College ; 
Sir  P.  T.  Mainwaring,  Misses 
Boycott,  Lord  Muncaster,  M.P., 
Capt.  J.  F.  Bagot,  Earl  of  Kilmorey, 
Earl  of  Powis,  Eev.  T.  S.  Hill  and 
others,  the  Corporations  of  Kendal, 
Wenloek,  Bridgnorth,  Eye,  Ply- 
mouth, and  the  County  of  Essex. 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Earl  of 
Fingall,  Corporations  of  Galway, 
Waterford,  the  Sees  of  Dublin  and 
Ossory,  the  Jesuits  in  Ireland. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Marquis  of  Abergavenny,  Lord 
Braye,  G.  F.  Luttrell,  P.  P.  Bouverie, 
W.  Bromley  Davenport,  M.P.,  B.  T. 
Balfour,  Esquires. 

Eleventh  Report   - 
This  is  introductory  to  the  following : — 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index  ... 
H.   D.   Skrine,   Esq.,   Salvetti   Corre. 
spondence. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index  ... 
House  of  Lords.     1678.1688. 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index  ... 
Corporations    of    Southampton    and 
Lynn. 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Marquis  Townshend. 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
The  Earl  of  Dartmouth. 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Duke  of  Hamilton. 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index  ... 

The  Duke  of  Leeds,  Marchioness  of 

Waterford,    Lord    Hothfield,    &c.  j 

Bridgwater   Trust   Office,   Beading 

Corporation,  Inner  Temple  Library. 

TwELFIH   BePORT      - 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following : — 

n.)  Appendix  -  -  - 

The  Earl  Cowper,  K.G.  (Coke  MSS., 
at  Melbourne  Hall,  Derby).     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Appendix  .  .  -  . 

Ditto.     Vol.  n. 


8vo. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


[C.4576] 


Price. 


[C.  4576 
i-] 


[C.5242] 


[C.  5060 
vi.] 

[C.5060] 


[C.  5060 

;•] 

[C.  5060 
ii.] 


[C.  5060 
iii.] 

[C.  5060 

[C.  5060 

^•] 

[C.5612] 


[C.5889] 
[C.5472] 

[C.5613] 


s,     d. 
[Out  of 
print,'] 


2   10 


1      7 


0     3 


1      1 


2      0 


1     8 


2     6 


2     8 


1      6 


2     0 


0     3 


2      7 


2     5 


1004 


Date. 


Size. 


Sessional 
Paper. 


Price. 


1889     (3.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Earl  Cowper,  K.G.  (Coke  MSS.,  at 
Melbourne  Hall,  Derby).    Vol.  III. 

1888  (4.)  Appendix 
The  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.     Vol.  I. 

1891      (5.)  Appendix  and  Index 
Ditto.    Vol.  II. 

1889  (6.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
House  of  Lords,  1689-1690. 

1890  (7.)  Appendix  AND  Index 
S.  H.  le  Flemmg,  Esq.,  of  Eydal. 

1891  (8.)  Appendix  and  Index 
The  Duke  of  Athole,  K.T.,  and  the 

Earl  of  Home. 

1891      (9.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Duke  of  Beaufort,  KG.,  the  Earl 
of  Donoughmore,  J.  H.  Gumey,  W. 
W.  B.  Hulton,  K.  W.  Ketton,  G.  A. 
Aitken,  F.  V,  Smith,  Esqs. ;  Bishop 
of  Ely  ;  Cathedrals  of  Ely,  Glouces- 
ter, Lincoln,  and  Peterborough ; 
Corporations  of  Gloucester,  Higham 
Ferrers,  and  Newark  j  Southwell 
Minster ;  Lincoln  District  Kegistiy. 

1891  (10.)  Appendix  and  Index 
The  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.   Vol.  I. 

1745-1783. 

1892  Thirteenth  Report 
This  is  introductory  to  the  following  :- 

1891  (1.)  Appendix 
The  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 
Ditto.    Vol.  II. 

1892  (3.)  Appendix 
J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.     Vol.  I. 

1892      (4.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Corporations  of  Rye,  Hastings,  and 
Hereford.  Capt.  F.  C.  Loder- 
Symonds,  E.  U.  Wodehouse,  M.P., 
J.  Dovaston,  Esqs.,  Sir  T.  Barrett 
Lennard,  Bart.,  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray, 
and  Earl  of  Dartmouth  (Supple- 
mentary Report). 

1892  (5.)  Appendix  and  Index  ■ 
House  of  Lords,  1690-1691. 

1893  (6.)  Appendix  and  Index 
Sir  William  Fitzherbert,  Bart.  ;    Earl 

of  Anoaster,  &c. 


8vo. 

[C.5889 

" 

[C.5614] 

" 

[C.  5889 
ii.] 

f* 

[C.  5889 
iii.] 

" 

[C.5889 

iv.] 

" 

[C.6338] 

»» 

[C.  6338 

i.] 

» 

[C. 6338 
ii.] 

" 

[C.6827] 

" 

[C.6474] 

" 

[C.  6827 

» 

[C.6660] 

" 

[C.6810] 

tt 

[0.6822] 

It 

[C.7166] 

«.  d. 

1     4 


3  2 
2  0 
2  1 
1   11 

1  0 

2  6 


1  U 

0  3 

3  0 

2  0 

2  7 

2  4 


2     4 


1005 


Date. 

Size. 

Sessional 
Paper. 

Price. 

1893 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index 
The  Earl  of  Lonsdale. 

8vo. 

[C.7241] 

s.    d. 
1     3 

1893 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.  Vol.  II. 
1784-1799. 

" 

[C.7424] 

1   11 

1896 

PointTBENTH   BePOBT 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following : — 

»' 

[C.7983J 

0     3 

1894 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.    Vol.  III. 

»» 

[C.74761 

1   11 

1894 

(2.)  Appendix          .... 
The  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  III. 

■• 

[0.7569] 

2     8 

1894 

(3.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Duke  of  Eoxburghe;  Sir  H.  H. 
Campbell ;  the  Earl  of  Strathmore ; 
and     the     Countess     Dowager     of 
Seafield. 

[C.7.570] 

1      2 

1J94 

(4.)  Appendix  and  Index 
Lord  Kenyon. 

" 

[C.7571] 

2    10 

1896 

(5.)  Appendix 

J.  B.  Fortesoue,  Esq.     Vol.  II. 

»> 

[C.7572] 

2     8 

1895 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index 

House  of  Lords,  1692-1693. 

>9 

[C.7573] 

1   11 

1895 

(7.)  Appendix 

The  Marquess  of  Ormonde, 

" 

[C.7678] 

1    10 

1895 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Lincoln,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Hertford, 
and   Great   Grimsby   Corporations; 
The   Dean  and    Chapter    of  Wor- 
cester,   and    of    Lichfield  ;      The 
Bishop's  Registry  of  Worcester. 

[C.7881] 

1     5 

1896 

(9.)  Appendix  and  Index 

Earl   of    Buckinghamshire ;    Earl    of 
Lindsey  ;    Earl    of    Onslow ;  Lord 
Emly  ;    T.  J.    Hare,  Esq.  ;  and  J. 
Round,  Esq.,  M.P. 

rC.7882] 

2     6 

1895 

(10.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth.    Vol.  II. 
American  Papers. 

" 

[C.7883] 

2     9 

1899 

FiPTLENrH  Repoet. 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following  :— 

» 

[C.9295] 

0     4 

1896 

(1.)  Appendix  and  Index 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth.    Vol.  III. 

„ 

[C.8156] 

1     5 

1897 
1897 

(2.)  Appendix          -            '           .",           " 
J.  Eliot  Hodgkin,  Esq.,  of  Richmond, 
Surrey. 

(3  )  Appendix  and  Index 

Charles  Haliday,  Esq.,  of  Dublin ;  Acts 
of  the    Privy   Council    in    Ireland, 
1556-1571  ;    Sir   William    Ussher's 
Table  to  the  Council  Book  j  Table 
to  the  Bed  Council  Book. 

>» 

[C.8327] 
[C.8364] 

1     8 
1      4 

1006 


Date. 

Size. 

Sessional 
Paper. 

Price. 

1897 

(4.)  Appendix          -                         -            - 
The  Duke  of  Portland.    Vol.  IV. 

8vo. 

[C.8497] 

(.  d. 
2  U 

1897 

(5.)  Appendix  and  Index  - 

The  Eight  Hon.  F.  J.  Savile  Foljambe 

» 

[C.8,'i50] 

0   10 

1897 

(6.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Earl  of  Carlisle,  Castle  Howard. 

»» 

[C.8551] 

3     6 

1897 

(7.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Dnke  of  Somerset,  the  Matquis  of 
Aileshury,  and  Sir  F.  G.  Puleston, 
Bsrt. 

" 

[C.8552] 

1     9 

1897 

(8.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

The  Duke  of  Buocleaoh  and  Queens- 
berry,  at  Drumlanrig. 

" 

[C.8553] 

I     4 

1S97 

(9.)  Appendix  and  Index - 

J.  J.  Hope  Johnstone,  Esq.,  of  Annan- 
dale. 

•      " 

[C.8554] 

I      0 

1898 

Mantscripts  in  the  Welsh  Language     - 
Vol.    1.    Lord  Mostyn    at    Mostyn   Hall, 
CO.  Flint. 

" 

[C.8829] 

1     4 

1899 

MANnSCBIPTS  OF  THE  DuRE  OP   BuCOlEUCH 
AND   QUEBNSBUET,  AT  MoNTAGCB  HOUSB, 

Whitehall.    Voi,.  I. 

" 

[C.9244] 

2     7 

1899 

MaNTJSCBIPTB    op     THE   Marquis     op    Ob- 

MONDE,  K.P.,  AT   THE    CASTLE,  KILKENNY. 

Vol.  II. 

" 

[C.9245] 

2     0 

1900 

HouBE  OP  Loaos  Manuscbipts.    Vol.  I.  - 
(In  continuation  of  C.-7573.) 

y> 

n.L. 

Paper. 

2     9 

Stationery  Office, 

February  1900. 


The  following  appear  periodically,  and  can  be  subscribed  for :  — 

jEiDB    OT  TKB  UNITED  KiKfflDOlI    WITH    BRITISH   PosSESaiONS   AWD  FoiEIOM    OOITIITRIES, 

^Bhowing  the  Quantities  and  the  Declared  Value  of  the  Articles. 
'.  !Bie  Proceedings  of  Parliament  in  Public  and  Private  Business  are  published  daily— 
'     House  of  Lords,  price  Id.  per  4  pp. ;  House  of  Oommons,  Id.  per  8  pp. 
Teadb  Bbfobts  of  the  several  British  Oolonies,  with  information  relative  to  their 
?         papulation  and  general  condition. 
I      Teabb  BiPOBTs  by  Her  Majesty's  Eepresentatives  in  Foreign  Oountries,  and  Beports 

on  Commercial  and  General  Interests- 
^te  Trials,  being  Reports  of  the  Chief  State  TrisU  which  have  taken  place  between 
^820  and  the  present  time,  published  under  the  supervision  of  a  Committee  appointed  by 
V  Lord  Chancellor.    1820-1823  to  1850-1858.    8  vols.    Roy.  8vo.         Price  10«.  each. 
llenger,  H.U.S.    A  Beport  on  the  Scientific  Besnlts  of  the  voyage  of,  during  the 
ars  1873-76,  under  the  command  of  Oa]>tain  Qt.  S.  Nares,  B.N.,  and  Capisin  F.  Turle 
tomson,  B.N.  Prepared  under  the  superintendence  of  the  late  Sir  C.Wy  ville  Thomson, 
IfKnt.,  F.B.S. ;  and  now  of  Sir  John  Murray,  K.O.B.    Fifty  Volumes.     Price  lOlJ.  15«. 
I^ilitary:— 
'"  AiEiCA.    Beitish  Centeal  Peotectoeate.    Precis  of  information  concerning. 

Pric9  3«.  6d. 
Abtiticebb.    Militaky.    Handbook  for.  -.  Price  1«. 

EiECTBlciiY  AND  MAGNETISM.     Text-book.     By  Capt.  W.  P.  Bull,  R.S.  Price  9a. 

Field  Seevice  Manual.     Cavalht.     1899.     Price  4d.    Mounted   Injamxey.     1899. 

Price  3d. 
Ihjantey.    Mounted.    Regulations.     1899.    Provisional  issue.  Price  Sd. 

Nile,  and  Countey  between  Dongola,  Suakim,   Kassala,  and  Omdueman.      Beport 
on  the.  Price  4«.  6d. 

Ehodesia,  Southbes.    Precis  of  information  concerning.    By  Major  0.  T.  Dawkins, 
C.M..G.    January  1899.  Price  2s. 

Small  Wabs.    Their  Principles  and  Practice.     New  edition.  Price  5s. 

Sudan.    Handbook  of  the.    Part  I.,  Q-eographical.    Part  II. ,  Historical.  Price  2s. 

Ditto.    Supplement  to.    July,  1899.  Price  2».  6d. 

VoirNTEEE  Camps.    Pat,  &c.    Instructions  relating  to.  Price  Id. 

Taval  :— 

Naval  Prize  C DUETS.    Bules  of  Court.    Tables  of  Fees,  &c.,  &o.  Price  3», 

ieological : — 

Belfoed,  Holt  Island  and  the  Faene  Islands.     By  W.  Gunn,  F.G.S.      Price  2s.  6d. 
South   Wales    Coalfield.     Part  I.     Couuti-y  round  Newport,   Mon.      By  Aubrey 
Strahan.  Price  2f. 

lOcal  Government  Board : — 

Dairies,  Oowsbeds  and  Milk  Shops.    Model  Regulations.  Price  Id. 

Entebic  Fever  in   the  Urban  Disteict  of  CoLBroBD   and  the   Rueal   District   on 

West  Dean.    Report  on.  Price  Sd. 

BoABDiNG-ouT   OB   Paupee   CHILDREN.     1898-99.     Report  of  Miss  H.  Mason  and  of 

Miss  F.  M.  Chapman.  Each  2d. 

[migrants'  Information  Office,  31.  Broadway,  Westmimiter,  vis.: — 

Colonies,  Handbooks  fob.    April  1900.    8to.    Wrapper. 

No.  1.   Canada.    2.    New    South  Wales.       3.    victoria.     4.    South   Australia. 

5.   Queensland.      6.   Western    Australia.      7.  Tasmania      8,    New    Zealand. 

9.  Cape  Colony.    10.  Natal.  Price  Id.  each. 

No.   11.    Professional    Handbook    dealing    with    Professions    in  the    Colonies. 

12.  Emigration  Statutes  and  General  Handbook.  Price  3d.  each. 

No.  13  (viz.,  Nob.  1  to  12  in  cloth).  Price  2s. 

Consular  Reports,  Summary  op.    America,  North  and  South.    June  1899.    Price  2d. 

■f  Intending  Emigeants,  Information  for  : — Argentine  Republic,  price  2d.    California, 

_i      price  Id     Ceylon,  price  Id.    Federated  Malay  States,  Jan.  1900,  price  4d.    Mary- 

"%>  land,  price  Id.    Newfoundland,  price  Id,    South  African  Republic,  price  3d.    West 

'  Indies,  price  6d.  ^  „ 

Excise  Laws.     Practical    Aerangement    op   the   Laws   eelative   to   the  Excise, 
.  &c.  &c     Bv  Nath.  J.  Highmore,  Assist.  Solicitor  of  Inland  Revenue.     2iid  Edition. 
La  Vols.  Price  308, 

■Xwf r BY  Teea't^    The  Map  of.    By  Sir  B.  Hertslet,  K.O.B.     SVols.    Price  31«.  6d. 
WOMMEECIAL  Treaties,    (Hertslet's.)    A  complete  collection  of  Treaties,  &c.,  between 
P^"  Great  Britain  and  Foreign  Powers  so  far  as  they  relate  to  Commerce  and  Navigation, 
"     &c.    By  Sir  B.  Hertslet,  K.C.B.,  &c.    Vols.  I.  to  XX.  Price  15.  each 

'•    State  Payees.     British  and  Foreign      Vol.  80.     General  Index  ^hronologi^llyM^^^ 

alphabetically  arranged)  to  Vols.  65  to  79.    (1873  to  1888.)    Vol  81.    1«88-1889. 

Vol  82.    1889-1890.   ^^ol.  83.    1890-1891.    Vol.  84.    1891-1892.    Vol.  85.    1892-1893. 

.       Vol.86.    1893-1894.    Vol.87.     1894-1895.  Price  10s.  each 

ffloard  Of  Trade  Journal,  of  Tariff  and  Trade  Notices  and  Miscellaneous  Ooimnercial 

W    Information.    PubUshed  weekly.  vir  +.,  yv     t„w  iRQq  in  W^fsofi 

Index  to  Vols,  1  to  14.    Price  2s.    And  to  Vols.  XV.  to  XX.    July  1893  ^^^^^]^f^ 

r-  Boyal  Botanic  Gardens.    Bulletins  of  Miscellaneous  Information.    Volume 
•1898,  price  3«. ;  and  Monthly  parts,  1899,  price  4d. 
1.  'VII.    1900. 


HISTORICAL    MANUSCRIPTS    COMMISSION. 


REPORT 


ON 


MANUSCRIPTS 


IN    THE 


WELSH     LANGUAGE. 


VOL.    I. 
PART   II.— PENIARTH. 


9teitt(titl  to  hatt)  ^a\xitS  at  parliament  is  Command  at  fitt  ^sfetfti;. 


LONDON: 
PRINTED  FOR  HER  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICL, 
BY  EYBE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE, 
PRINTERS   TO   THE  QUEEN'S   MOST  EXCELLENT   MAJESTY. 


And  to  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 
EYRE  AND  SPOTTISWOODE,  East  Habdino  Street,  Fleet  Street,  E.G.,  and 
32,  Abingdon  Street,  Westminster,  S.W.  ;  or 
JOHN  MElsZIES  &  Co.,  12,  Hanover  Street,  Edinburgh,  and 
90,  West  Nile  Street,  Glasoow;  or   " 
IIODGES,  FIGGIS,  &  Co.,  Limited,  104,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin. 


1899. 


