I'if,^^: 


?>--Рђб  .e^'*'-'^^ 


Рђб  Рќа<:^f  c-  -= 


;=-Рќа-;>. 


РђбVc.^ 


^.-^S*' 


.РќаJ 


РѓгmM\\  ^mmxi%  J 

iBmg 

,      BOUGHT  WITH  THE  INCOME 
FROM  THE 

SAGE   ENDOWMENT 

THE  GIFT  OF 

FUND 

1891 

/y/y^s 

A s:..6:..s..3...z .- 

.JL -: r Рђћ . 1 

CORNELL   UNIVERSnV   LIBRARY 


3   1924  070  622  091 


P5 

H-3LS' 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tliis  book  is  in 
tlie  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924070622091 


ORIGINAL  SANSKRIT  TEXTS 

ON  THE 

OEIGIN   AND   HISTOEY 

OP 

THE  PEOPLE  OF  INDIA, 

THEIE  EELIGION  AND  INSTITUTIONS, 
COLLECTED,    TRANSLATED,    AND    ILLUSTRATED, 

ET 

J.  MIJIR,  D.C.L.,  LL.D.,  PH.D., 

COKRESPONDING  MEMBER  OF  THE  B.OTAL  PRTTSSIAN  ACADEMY  OP  SCIENCES,   AND   OP   THE  AMERICAN 

0;aiEHTAL   SOCIETT,   CORRESPONDENT  OP  THE  FRENCH  ACADEMY  OP  INSCRIPTIONS  AND 

BELLES  LETTRES,   HONORARY   MEMBER  OP    THE  GERMAN  ORIENTAL  SOCIETY, 

,AND  POREIGN  MEMBER  OP  THE  LEYDEN  LITERARY  SOCIETY. 


VOLUME  rOUETH. 

COMPiBISOlf    OF    THE    TEDIC   WITH   THE   LATEE   EEPEESENTATIONS    Or   THE 
PfiDTCIPAI,    INDIAlf    DEITIES. 

SECOND   EDITION,    EEYISED. 


LONDOl^: 
TEtJBNEK  &  CO.,  67  and  59,  LUDGATE  HILL. 

1873- 
fAll  rights  reserved.J 


HERTFORD : 
Pbihtbd  by  Stzphdh  Aostik  add  Sorb. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  FIRST  EDITIOIS'. 


The  object  wliich  I  have  had  in  view  in  the  present 
Yolume  is  to  compare  the  representations  which  are 
given  of  the  Indian  deities  Brahma,  Yishnu,  and  Etidra, 
and  of  the  goddess  Ambika,  in  the  Vedic  hymns  and 
Brahmanas,  with  the  accounts  which  we  find  in  the 
legendary  poems  called  Itihasas  and  Puranas,  and  to 
show,  so  far  as  the  materials  at  our  command  will  allow, 
to  what  extent,  and  by  what  steps  in  each  case,  the  earlier 
conceptions  were  gradually  modified  in  the  later  works. 

The  First  Chapter  (pp.  3-62)  treats  of  the  deity  who 
is  described  in  the  later  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda,  and  in 
the  Atharva-veda,  under  the  different  titles  of  Visva- 
karman,  Hiranyagarbha,  and  Prajapati,  and  appears  to 
correspond  with  the  Brahma  of  the  more  modern  legend- 
ary books. 

Though  this  god  was  originally  unconnected  with 
Yishnu  and  Eudra,  while  at  a  subsequent  period  he 
came  to  be  regarded  in  systematic  mythology  as  the 
first  person  in  the  triad  of  which  they  formed  the  second 
and  third  members,  yet  the  general  idea  entertained  of 
his  character,  if  at  all  altered,  has  been  less  modified  in 
the  course  of  his  history  than  is  the  case  in  regard  to 
the  other  two  deities. 

'  *  [With  the  exception  of  the  notes  in  pages  tI.,  vii.,  and  x.,  and  the  alterations 
in  the  figures  showing  the  pages  in  Рќаwhich  the  several  chapters  and  sections  begin 
and  end,  rendered  necessary  by  the  additions  made  in  this  second  edition,  this 
preface  is  reprinted  nearly  as  it  originally  stood.] 


VI  PREFACE. 

Brahma  was  from  the  beginniiig  considered  as  the 
Creator,  and  he  continued  to  be  regarded  as  fulfilling  the 
same  function  even  after  he  had  sunk  into  a  subordinate 
position,  and  had  come  to  be  represented  by  the  Totaries 
of  Vishnu  and  Mahadeva  respectively  as  the  mere  crea- 
ture and  aigent  of  one  or  other  of  those  two  gods  (see  pp. 
188,  194,  230,  267,  273).  In  later  times  Brahma  has 
had  few  special  worshippers;  the  only  spot  where  he 
is  periodically  adored  being  at  Pushkara  in  Eajputana.* 
Three  of  the  acts  which  the  earlier  legends  ascribe  to 

*  See  Professor  H.  H.  Wilson's  Essay  on  the  Padma  Parana,  in  the  Jonrnal  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society,  Vol.  V.,  p.  309,  reprinted  in  vol.  iii.  of  his  collected  works, 
pp.  74  f. ;  and  the  same  author's  Oxford  Lectures,  p.  21.  In  the  preface  to  his 
edition  of  the  Narada  Panoharatra,  published  in  the  BibUotheca  Indica  in  1865,  p.  4, 
the  Rev.  K.  M.  Banerjea  refers  to  this  subject:  "Of  the  three  select  divinities," 
(Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  S'iva)  "the  first,  however,  had  never  become  an  object  of 
special  adoration,  having  been  guilty  of  an  incestuous  attempt  on  his  own  daughter." 
(See  pp.  45  ff.  of  this  volume.)  "  The  incident  is  thus  accounted  for  in  the  work 
now  presented  to  the  public."  The  words  referred  to  will  be  quoted  below.  They 
occur  in  the  tenth  section,  Vv.  30  f.  It  had  been  previously  related  that  Brahma 
had  exhorted  his  son  Narada  to  take  a  wife  and  so  people  the  world  {sryshtim  kuru 
mahabhaffa  Tiritva  dara-parigraham,  v.  5).  Hereupon  Narada,  who  was  a  votary  of 
Krishna,  becomes  angry,  affirms  that  devotion  to  that  god  is  the  sole  way  to  attain 
felicity,  and  denounces  his  father  as  an  erring  instructor  (vv.  7-22).  Brahma  in 
reply  curses  Narada,  and  dooms  him  to  a  life  of  sensuality  and  subjection  to  women, 
etc.  (vv.  23-29).  Narada  pays  back  the  imprecation  in  the  lines  translated  by  Mr. 
Baneijea,  which  I  give  in  the  original,  with  some  of  thofie  that  follow :  Tatasya 
vachanam  irutva  ehuAopa  Narado  munih  \  aas'apa  pitaram  aighram  darimam  cha 
yathochitam  |  31.  Apujyo  bhava  dushfa  tvam  tvan-maniropasakah  hutah  \  agamya- 
.gamcmeehha  te  bhcmishyati  ,na  samsayaji  \  32.  Naradasya  tu  s'apena  so  'pujyojagatam 
mdhih\  drishtva  ava-kanya-rupa^  cha paschad d/ta/iiitavan pur3\  S3.' Ftmah svadehaih 
tatyaja  bhfirsitah  Scmalcadibhih  \  lajjitah  Tcama-yuMai  cha  pimar  Brahma  bdbhuva 
sah  I  34.  Naradas  tu  namaskritya  pitaram  kamalodbhavam  \  mpra-deham  parityajya 
gamdharvas  cha,  babhma  sah  \  30.  "  Hearing  the  words  of  his  father,  the  muni 
Narada  became  incensed,  and  straightway  cursed  him  dreadfully,  as  was  befitting. 
31.  'Wretch,  become  no  object  of  adoration:  how  shall  any  one  be  devoted  to  the 
forms  of  thy  worship?  Thou  shalt  without  doubt  lust  after  her  who  is  no  fit  object  of 
thy  desires.'  32.  Through  this  curse  of  Narada,  the  creator  of  the  world  ceased  to  be 
am  object  of  worship.  Beholding  the  beauty  of  his  daughter,  he  formerly  ran  after 
her.  33.  Afterwards,  being  reproached  by  Sanaka  and  others,  he' abandoned  his 
corporeal  form.  Brahma  afterwards  became  ashamed,  being  a  slave  to  lust.  34.  And 
Narada,  having  made  obeisance  to  his  lotus-bom  father,  forsook  his  Brahmanlcal 
body,  and  became  a  Gandharva."    His  loves  are  then  related. 


PEEFACE.  vii 

him,  or  to  Emusha,  th.e  assumption  of  the  forms  of  a 
tortoise,  a  boar,*  and  a  fish,  are  in  later  works  trans- 
ferred to  Vishnu  (see  pp.  27,  33  f.,  36  and  38). 

The  Second  Chapter  (pp.  63-298)  first  of  all  descrihes 
the  original  conception  of  Vishnu  as  he  is  celebrated  in 
the  hymns  of  the  Eig-veda  (pp^  63-97).  The  particular 
attribute  by  which  he  is  there  distinguished  from  every 
other  deity  is  that  of  striding  across  the  heavens  by  three 
paces.  This  phrase  is  interpreted  by  one  of  the  aneient 
commentators  as  denoting  the  threefold  manifestations 
of  light,  as  fire  on  earth,  as  lightning  in  the  atmosphere, 
and  as  the  suu  in  the  sky;  and  by  another  as  diesignat- 
ing  the  three  stages  of  the  sun's  daily  movement,  his^ 
rising,  culmination,  and  setting.  The  latter  explanation 
seems  to  satisfy  best  the  idea  of  movement  expressed 
in, the  description;  but  the  conception  is  not  distinctly 
developed  in  any  of  the  texts.  Some  of  the  highest 
divine  functions  and  attributes  are  also,  assigned  to 
Vishnu;  and  we  might  thus  be  led  to  suppose  that 
the  authors  of  these  hymns  regarded  him  as  the  Supreme 
Deity.  But  this  supposition  is  invalidated  by  the  fact 
that  Indra  is  sometimes  associated  with  Vishnu  in  the 
performance  of  these  funetions,  and  that  several  other 
deities  are  magnified  in  terms  of  similar  import  (pp.  97- 
114).  The  Third  Section  (pp.  114-121)  treats  of  Vishnu 
as  one  of  the  sons  of  Aditi.  The  origin  here  assigned  to 
this  god  would  lead  us  to  conclude  that  he  was  origin- 
ally considered  as  of  no  higher  rank  than  the  other 
beings  who  bear  the  same  name  of  Adityas.    The  Fourth 

*  Compare  the  passage  from  the  Tattiriya  Sanhita,  Tii.  1,  5)  1,  quoted  in  the 
fiiet  volume  of  this  work,  p.  52. 


viii  PEEFACE. 

Section  (pp.  121-156}  contains  the  legends  relating  to  the 
same  god  in  the  Brahmanas,  in  which  he  is  identified 
"with  sacrifice;  while  in  one  of  them  he  is  spoken  of  as 
a  dwarf.  The  later  accounts  of  the  dwarf  incarnation  are 
next  adduced  as  recorded  in  the  Eamayana,  the  Maha- 
bharata,  and  in  the  Vishnu  and  Bhagavata  Puranas.  In 
the  Fifth  Section  a  passage  is  quoted  from  the  Nirukta 
(pp.  156  ff.),  in  which  the  gods  are  classified,  and  the 
most  prominent  places  are  assigned  to  Agni,  Yayu  or 
Indra,  and  Smrya,  who  seem  to  have  been  regarded  by 
the  author  as  the  triad  of  deities  in  whom  the  Supreme 
Spirit  was  especially  revealed,  while  Vishnu  and  Eudra 
are  merely  mentioned  as  gods  who  were  worshipped  con- 
jointly with  Indra  and  Soma,  respectively.  The  later 
triad  of  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  Eudra,  seems  therefore  to 
have  been  then  unknown.  The  remainder  of  this  Section 
(pp.  163-298),  and  pp.  441-491  of  the  Appendix,  are 
chiefly  occupied  by  quotations  from  the  Eamayana  and 
Mahabharata,  containing  a  great  variety  of  details  re- 
lating to  Eama  and  Krishna,  the  two  heroes  who  came 
ultimately  to  be  regarded  as  the  principal  incarnations  of 
Vishnu ;  and  an  attempt  is  made  by  an  examination  of 
these  texts  to  elucidate  the  question  whether  or  not  a 
divine  nature  was  ascribed  to  these  two  personages  by 
the  authors  of  the  two  poems  as  they  originally  stood. 
The  passages  adduced  from  the  Mahabharata  relating  to 
Krishna  make  frequent  mention  of  Mahadeva  also,  and 
illustrate  the  conceptions  entertained  of  him  at  that 
epoch  of  Indian  history  when  they  were  composed.  This 
Section  contains  also  many  texts  which  indicate  the  exist- 
ence of  a  strong  rivalry  between  the  adherents  of  these 


PREFACE.  ix 

two  gods.  In  different  passages  here  cited,  Vishnu  and 
Eudra  (Mahadeya)  are  both  described  by  their  respective 
votaries  as  one  with  the  Supreme  Spirit;  while  in  some 
places  they  are  identified  with  one  another. 

The  Third  Chapter  (pp.  299-437)  traces  the  mytho- 
logical history  of  Eudra  as  he  is  represented  in  the  Eig- 
veda  (pp.  299-320),  in  the  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  (321- 
331),  in  the  Atharva-veda  (332-339),  in  the  Brahmanas 
and  Mahabharata  (339-355)^  in  the  Upanishads  (355- 
363),  and  in  various  further  texts  from  the  Itihasas  and 
Puranas  which  describe  some  of  this  god's  proceedings, 
and  indicate  the  struggles  of  his  votaries  to  introduce 
his  worship,  as  illustrated  in  the  story  of  Daksha's 
sacrifice  (363-393).  A  summary  of  the  conclusions 
deducible  from  these  Sections  is  given  in  pp.  393-405. 
Pages  405-420  contain  an  inquiry  into  the  origin 
of  the  Linga  worship, Рђћ though  unfortunately  nothing 
better  than  a  negative  result  is  obtained; Рђћ and  into 
the  question  whether  or  not  Mahadeva's  worship  was 
most  prevalent  in  the  South  of  India  in  the  epic  era. 
This  Chapter  concludes  with  ail  account  of  the  different 
representations  of  the  goddess  called  variously  Ambika, 
Uma,  Eali,  !^arali,  Parvati,  Durga,  etc.,  which  we  find 
in  the  Kena  and  Mundaka  Upanishads,  in  the  Taittiriya 
Aranyaka,  in  the  Eamayana,  Harivamsa,  and  Maha- 
bharata, and  in  the  Markandeya  Purana  (pp.  420-437). 

A  further  indication  of  the  various  matters  illustrated 
in  this  Volume  will  be  obtained  by  consulting  the  Index 
under  the  names  Brahma,  Vishnu,  Eama,  Krishna, 
Uma,  etc. 

It  will  be  apparent  to  all  Sanskrit  scholars  that  the 


X  PREFACE. 

main  results  at  which  I  have  arrived  in  regard  to 
Vishnu,  Eudra,  and  Ambika,  are  not  new.  Eosen  (in 
the  notes  to  his  translation  of  the  E.V.  p.  li.},  Bumouf 
(Pref.  to  Bhag.  Pur.  vol.  iii.  p.  xxii,),  whose  remarks 
are  subjoined  in  a  note,*  and  Wilson  (Pref.  to  transl. 
of  E.V.  i.  p.  xxxiv.),  had  already  drawn  attention  to  the 
text  of  Yaska  and  to  the  Commentary  of  Durga,  by 
which  it  is  shown  that  the  three  steps  of  Vishnu  were 
interpreted  by  the  ancient  commentators  in  the  manner 
which  I  have  indicated  in  pp.  64  ff. 

In  the  same  way  "Wilson,  Weber,  and  Whitney  (see  pp. 
394  ff.  of  this  Volume)^  had  pointed  out  that  the  Eudra 
of  the  Eig-veda  is  very  different  from  the  Eudra  or 
Mahadeva  of  the  Puranas.  And  in  pp.  421  ff.  I  have 
quoted  the  dissertations  of  Professor  Weber  on  the 
mythological  history  of  Ambika  or  TJma.  The  whole, 
therefore,  that  I  can  claim  to  have  effected  is  to  have 
brought  together,  and  to  have  illustrated  to  the  best  of 
my  power,  all  the  most  important  texts  which  I  could 

*  "  We  can  at  this  day  go  further  still,  and  affirm  t]iat  the  Vishnu  of  the  Vedas 
is  in  no  way  the  Vishmi  of  the  mythologists.  A  commentatoT  of  a  certain  authority, 
Durgacharya,  explaining  the  Nirntta  of  Yaska,  when  he  arrives  at  the  text  of 
Medhatithi  published  by  Eosen,"  (i.e.  R.V.  1.  22,  17ff.)  "says  positively  that  Vishnu 
is  the  sun,  either, because  he  enters  into  the  heaven,  or  because  he  entirely  occupies 
it.  This  interpretation,  which  he  derives  from  Yaska  himself,  leaves  no  doubt  on 
the  question  what  we  are  to  understand  by  the  Vishnu  of  the  Vedas,  who  takes  three 
steps.  It  is  manifestly  the  luminary  of  day  regarded  in  the  three  principal  moments 
of  his  course,  his  rising,  meridional  position,  and  setting ;  and  there  is  none  erf  the 
expressions  of  the  Vedic  texts  in  which  this  god  appears,  making  himself  in  ttree 
steps  master  of  the  celestial  vault,  to  which  this  explanation  given  by  Yaska  several 
centuries  before  our  era  does  not  apply.  We  learn  by  this  example  what  prudence 
it  is  indispensable  to  bring  to  the  studies  by  the  aid  of  which  criticism  must  restore 
the  chain  which  connects  the  mythical  development  of  the  Indian  religion  with  the 
conceptions  of  the  primitive  naturalism'of  the  Vedas.  Neither  the  identity  of  the 
names,  nor  even  that  of  the  sense,  is  a  sufficiently  sure  guide ;  and  the  ideas,  though 
originally  simple,  are  clothed  in  forms  either  so  different,  or  so  easy  to  be  confounded, 
that  we  cannot  judge  of  the  details  without  having  understood  and  embraced  the 
whole." 


PEErACE.  I       xi 

discover  to  have  any  bearing  on  the  subjects  which  I 
have  handled. 

My  best  thanks  are  due  to  the  diflferent  scholars  who 
are  mentioned  in  the  course  of  the  Work  as  having  given 
me  assistance ;  and  in  particular  to  Professor  Aufrecht, 
whose  name  recurs  perpetually  in  the  following  pages, 
and  who  has  favoured  me  with  the  most  valuable  sugges- 
tions and  information  in  respect  particularly  to  the  sense 
of  the  Yedic  texts,  which  long  and  careful  study  has 
rendered  him  so  competent  to  interpret. 


PREFACE  TO  THE  SECOTO  EDITION 


With  the  exception  of  a  variety  of  additions,  inter- 
spersed through,  the  work,  which  in  all  fill  about  60  pp., 
but  little  alteration  has  been  made  in  this  Edition. 
The  most  important  additions,  chiefl.y  in  notes,  will  be 
found  in  pp.  39  f.,  78  f.,  126,  131,  138  f.,  143  f.,  151- 
156,  165,  167,  200-203,  255  f.,  261  f.,  267,  278,  289  f., 
298,  301-303,  304,  310,  314  f.,  317,  321,  327  ff.,  337, 
341,  347  f.,  381,  393,  403,  406,  413  ┬Б,  420,  425,  441  f., 
456,  464  f.,  472,  474,  476,,  491-493,  494,  496,  and  in 
the  "Additional  Notes."  The  addition  in  pp.  151-156, 
from  the  Matsya  Purana,  contains  a  statement  (unusual, 
if  not  altogether  unknown  in  other  Indian  works)  in 
reference  to  Vishnu's  incarnations,  which  represents 
seven  of  them  as  being  the  result  of  a  curse  uttered 
against  the  god  by  Sukra,  the  priest  of  the  Asuras, 
whose  mother  he  (Yishnu)  had  slain.  At  the  same 
time  it  is  affirmed,  strangely  enough,  that  these  in- 
carnations, though  occasioned  by  a  curse,  were  intended 
for  the  repression  of  unrighteousness  when  it  should 
become  dominant  on  the  earth. 


CONTENTS. 


v.Рђћ xii.  PEEFACES. 

1,  2.  PLAN  OF  THE  РќаWOEK. 
3Рђћ62.  CHAPTEE    T.     Texts  feom  the  Vedic  Hmofs,  BeIh- 

MM'AS,    AND    PuEAJfAS,    ETC.,    EELATHfG   TO    THE    CeEATION 
OF    THE    TJlflTEESE,    AlfD    TO     THE    DEITIES   VlSTAKAEMAST, 

Daksha,  Abiti,  HrEANTAeAEBHA,  Skambha,  Peajapati, 
PiJEirsHA,  Naeatana,  and  Beahma, 

3 Рђћ 20.  Sect.  I.  Texts  from  the  Eig  and  Atharra-vedas  regarding 
the  creation  and  some  of  the  deities  just  named. 
20 Рђћ 62.  Sect.  II.  Creation ;  primeval  waters ;  mundane  egg ; 
Brahma  or  Prajapati;  morality  of  the  Indian  gods; 
creation  of  the  gods,  etc. ;  according  to  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  Manu,  the  Eamayana,  the  Vishnu  and 
Bhagavata  Puranas,  and  the  Harivamsa. 

63 Рђћ 298.  CHAPTEE  II.     Vishnit,  as  eepeesented  ts  the  Vedic 
Hymns,    the    Bbaemanas,    the    Itihasas,    and    the 

PlTEAIfAS. 

63 Рђћ 97.  Sect.  I.    Passages  in  the  Hymns  of  the  Eig-yeda  relating 
to  Vishnu. 
97 Рђћ 114.  Sect.   II.     Subordinate  position  occupied  by  Vishnu  in 
the  Hymns  of  the  Eig-veda,  as  compared  with  other 
deities,  Indra,  Varuna,  etc. 

114 Рђћ 121.  Sect,  III.  Vishnu  as  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas,  accord- 
ing to  the  Mahabharata  and  Puranas. 

121 Рђћ 156.  Sect.  IV.  Stories  regarding  Vishnu  from, the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  the  Taittiriya  ^ranyaka,  the  Panchavim^a 
Brahmana,  the  Eamayana,  the  Mahabharata,  and  the 
Puranas. 


xiv  CONTENTS. 


PAGES. 


156 Рђћ 298.  Sect.  V.  Vishnu,  as  represented  in  the  Ifirukta,  and  his 
character  and  incarnations  as  described  in  the  Eamayana, 
Mahabharata,  and  Puranas ;  with  Notices  of  Mahadeva< 

299Рђћ437.  CHAPTEE  III.  Etidea  oe  MahIdbta,  aito  AmbikI 
OE  TJma,  as  eepeesbnted  nr  the  Vedic  Htmws,  Beah- 

HANAS     AITD     TJpANISHADS,     AND     EST     THE      IlIHASAS     AND 
PUEAWAS. 

299 Рђћ 320.  Sect.  I.  Eudra,  as  represented  in  the  Hymns  of  the 
Eig-veda. 

321 Рђћ 331.  Sect.  II.  Passages  relating  to  Eudra,,  and  to  Ambika, 
from  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  of  the  white  Tajur-veda. 

332 Рђћ 339.  Sect.  III.  Passages  relating  to  Eudra,  Bhava,  S'arva,  etc., 
from  the  Atharva-veda. 

339 Рђћ 355.  Sect.  IV.  Passages  relating  to  Eudra  from  the  S'atapatha 
and  S'ankhayanaBrahmanas;  and  from  the  Mahabharata. 

355 Рђћ 363.  Sect.  Y.     Passages  relating  to  Eudra  from  the  Upanishads. 

363 Рђћ 393.  Sect.  YI.  Some  farther  texts  from  the  Itihasas  and 
Puranas  relative  to  Eudra. 

393 Рђћ 420.  Sect.  YII.  Conclusions-  deducible  from  the  preceding 
sections  in  regard  to  the  mythological  history  of  Eudra : 
inquiry  in  regard  to  the  origin  of  the  Linga  worship, 
and  the  question  whether  in  the  epic  era  Eudra  was 
especially  worshipped  in  the  South  of  India. 

420 Рђћ 437.  Sect.  YIII.  Earlier  and  later  representations  of  Ambika, 
T7ma,  KalT,  EaialT,  Parvati,  or  Durga,  according  to  the 
Yajasaneyi  Sanhita,  the  Kena  and  Mundaka  Upanishads, 
the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  the  Mahabharata,  and  the 
Puranas. 

439^ Рђћ 501.  Appendix,  coNTAcnNG  Coeeections  and  additionax  Texts. 
439.  Note  A.     Passage  from  the  TJttara  Eanda  of  the  Eama- 
yana regarding  the  creation  by  Prajapati. 

439 Рђћ 441.  Note  B.    Passage  from  the  Eamayana  regarding  Yishnu's 
three  steps. 
441.  Note  C.     Eeferenc┬Е  to  some  variations  in  the  text  of 
Schlegel's  and  the  Bombay  Eamayana. 


CONTENTS. 


XV 


PAGES, 

441 Рђћ 491.  Note  D.  Passages  from  the  Eamayana  and  Mahabharata 
relating  to  the  legendary  history  of  Eama,  and  the 
question  whether  in  th┬Ф  oldest  text  of  the  former  poem 
he  was  represented  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu. 

491^-493.  Note  E.     Quotations  from  the  Tandya  Mahabrahmana 
regarding  the  Tatis. 
494.  Note  P.     Opinions  of  Professors  Eoth  and  Aufrecht  re- 
garding the  meanings  of  the  root  Sru. 
494.  Note  Gr.     Quotation  from  the  Eamayana  regarding  Eavana. 

494 Рђћ 497.  Note  H.     Story  of  Indra  and  Indrajit. 

497 Рђћ 500.  Note  I.  Hyrtp  x.  127  of  the  Eigveda;  and  Durga-stava, 
or  Eatrisukta. 

500 Рђћ 501.  Note  J.  Quotation  from  the  Markandeya  Purana  regard- 
ing the  tongues  of  Agni. 

502 Рђћ 508.  Additionai  Notes    aud    Cobeeciioits,    including    further 
'  remarks  and  quotations  Mgarding  the  word  S'ipivishta. 

509 Рђћ 524.  Index. 


OHmil^AL  SAIN'SKRIT  TEXTS. 


VOIiUAIH     FOTJETH. 


PLAN  OF  THE  PKESENT  VOLUME. 

Refeee┬╗-ce  has-  abeady  been  made  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work 
(pp.  212-216,  1st  ed.)'  to  the  great  difference  which  is  discoverable 
between  the  mythology  of  the  Vedas  and  that  of  the  Indian  epic  poems 
and  Puranas ;  and  this  difference  was  there  illustrated  by  comparing 
the  representations  of  Vishnu  and  Rudra  which  are  given  in  the  hymns 
of  the  Eig-veda  with  those  which  we  find  in  the  productions  of  a 
later  age.  On  the  same  occasion  I  intimated  my  intention  of  treating 
the  same  subject  in  greater  detail  in  a  subsequent  portion  of  my  work. 
In  pursuance  of  this  design,  I  propose  to  collect  in  the  present  volume 
the  most  important  texts  regarding  the  origin  of  the  universe,  and  the 
characters  of  the  three  principal  Indian  gods,  which  occur  in,  the  Vedic 
hymns  and  Brahmanas,  and  to  compare  these  passages  with  the  later 
narratives  and  popular  speculations  on  the  same  subjects  which  are 
to  be  found  in  the  Mahabharata,  the  Eamayana,  and  the  Puranas. 

This  gradual  modification  of  Indian  mythological  conceptions  will 
indeed  be  found  to  have  already  commenced  in  the  Eig-veda  itself, 
if  we  compare  its  later  with  its  earlier  portions;  it  becomes  more 
clearly  discernible  when  we  descend  from  the  hymns  to  the  Brah- 
manas ;  and  continues  to  exhibit  itself  still  more  prominently  in  the 
Puranic  writers,  who,  through  a  long  course  of  ages,  gave  free  scope 
to  their  fancy  in  the  embellishment  of  old,  and  the  invention  of  new, 
stories  in  honour  of  their  favourite  gods,  till  at  last  the  repre- 
sentations given  of  the  most  popular  divinities  became  not  only  at 

'  The  passage  occurs  at  pp.  201-204  of  the  2nd  ed. 


2  PLAN  OF  THE  PEESENT  VOLUME. 

Yariance  with  the  characteristics  ascribed  to  their  prototypes  in  the 
Vedas,  but  even  in  some  respects  different  from  the  descriptions  which 
occur  in  the  older  Puranas  themselves. 

These  successive  mutations  in  Indian  mythology  need  not  occasion 
us  any  surprise,  as  they  merely  afford  another  exemplification  of  a 
process  which  may  be  remarked  in  the  history  of  all  nations  which 
have  given  free  scope  to  thought,  to  feeling,  and  to  imagination,  in 
matters  of  religion. 

In  carrying  out  the  plan  just  sketched,  I  shall,  first  of  all,  (J^uote 
the  texts  in  the  Vedic  hymns  which  refer  to  the  creation  of  the  world, 
and  to  the  deities  Vi^vakarman,  Hiranyagarbha,  Prajapati,  etc, ;  these 
shall  be  succeeded  (2)  by  passages  from  the  Brahmanas,  and  (3)  by 
quotations  from  Manu,  the  Mahabharata,  the  Eamayana,  and  the 
Puranas  having  reference  to  the  same  subjects. 

I  shall  then  proceed  in  a  similar  order  with  the  various  texts  which 
relate  to  the  gods  Vishnu  and  Budra,  and  the  goddess  Ambika,  with 
occasional  notices  of  other  Indian  deities. 


CHAPTEE  I. 

TEXTS  FEOM  THE  VEDIC  HYMNS,  BEAHMANAS,  AND  PURANAS, 
ETC.,  EELATING  TO  THE  CREATION  OF  THE  UNIVERSE,  AND 
TO  THE  DEITIES  VISTAKARMAN,  BRAHMANASPATI,  DAKSHA, 
ADITI,  HIRANYAGARBHA,  SKAMBHA,  PRAJAPATI,  PURUSHA 
NARATANA,  BRAHMA,  etc. 

Sect.  I. Рђћ Texts  from  the  Rig- and  Athwrva-vedas  regarding  the  creation 
and  some  of  the  deities  just  named. 

SPBCULAlIOlfS     ABOUT     CeEATION, Рђћ Ria-VBni,      X.     129     (  =  TAIITIEllil 

Beahmana,  ii.  8,  9,  3). 

E.  V.  X.  129,  1  ff.^ Рђћ iV┬╗  asad  asid  no  sad  asit  tadanim  na  asid  rajoi 
no  vyoma  paro  yat  \  him  dvarivah  huha  kasya  ka/rmann  ambhah  Mm  dsid 
gahanam  gdbMram  \  2.  Na  mrityvir  dsid  amritam  na  tarhi  na  ratryah 
ahnal^  aslt  praketdh  \  anid  matam  svaXhaya  tad  ekam  tasmad  ha  anyad 
na  parah  Jcinchanasa  \  3.  Tamah  aslt  tamasd  gulham  agre''  aprahetarh 
salilam  sarvam  ah  idam  \  tuchhyena  abhv  apihitam  yad  ant  tapasas  tad 

Рђб  The  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  2,  21  f.,  quotes  (from  some  source  which  is  not  indicated) 
a  Terse  which  seems  to  be  in  SQme  degree  founded  on  the  text  before  us,  and  employs- 
it  in  support  of  the  Sankhya  doctrine  of  Fradhma :  Veda-vada-vido  mprah  niyatah 
Brahma-vadinah  \  pathamti  vai  tarn  evartham  FradKana-pratipadakam  \  22.  Naho 
na  ratrir  na  naiho  na  bhwnir  nasit  tamo  jyotir  aihud  na  va  'nyat  \  a'rotradi- 
huddhyamipalabhyam  ekam  pradhanikam  Brahma  pumams  tadaslt  |  "Brahmans 
learned  in  the  tenets  of  the  Veda,  firm  assertors  of  its  principles,  repeat  the 
following  statement  establishing  the  doctrine  of  Pradhana :  22.  '  There  was  neither 
day  nor  night,  neither  sky  nor  earth ;  there  was  neither  darkness  nor  light,  nor 
anything  else.  There  was  then  the  One,  Brahma  possessing  the  character  of  Pradhana, 
the  Male,  incomprehensible  by  the  ear,  or  other  senses,  or  by  the  intellect.'  "  See- 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.  of  Wilson's  V.  P  ,  vol.  i.,pp.  23  ff.,  with  the  Editor's  notes. 

'  These  words  are  quoted  by  Kulluka  or  Manu,  i.  5,  of  whichi  passage  this  may 
be  the  germ.    In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  6,  S,  1  (=Brihad  Aranyaka  Upan- 


4  EIGVEDA  X.  129;   ORIGIN  OF  THE  tmiVEESE. 

mahina  'jdyataiham  \  4.  Kamas'  tad  ogre  sammxirttatddhi  manaso  retah 
prathamaih  yad  aslt  |  sato  handhum  asati  niravindan  hridi  pratishya 
havayo  manishd  \  5.  (Vaj.  S.  xxxiii.  74)  Tiraschino  vitato  raimir  es^dm 
adhah  svid  dsid  ttpari  svid  daU  |  retodhdh  dsan  mahimdnah  dsan  svadhd 
avastdt  prayatih  parastat  \  6.  Xo  anga  veda  hah  iha  pravochat  kutah 
ajdtd  kutah  iyam  visrishtih  \  a/rvdg  devdh  asya  vua/r┬Бa/nena  aiha  ho  veda 
yatah  dhdbhuva  \  7.  Iyam  visrtshfir  yatah  dhdbhuva  yad/i  ed  dadhe  yadi 
vd  na  {  yo  asyddhyaJcshah  parame  vyoman  sa  anga  veda  yadi  vd  na  veda  \ 
"  There  was  then  neither  non-entity,  nor  entity;  there  was  no  atmo- 
sphere, nor  the  sky  which  is  above.  "What  enveloped  [all]  ?  where, 
in  the  receptacle  of  what  [was  it  hid]  ?  was  it  water,*  the  deep 
abyss?  2.  Death  was  not  then,  nor  immortality;  there  was  no  dis- 
tinction of  day  or  night :  That,  being  One,  breathed  calmly,  in  self- 
dependence  :  there  was  nothing  different  from  It  [that  One]  or  above 
It.  3.  Darkness  existed ;  originally  enveloped  in  darkness,  this 
universe  was  undistinguishable  water ;  that  One  which  lay  void,'  and 
wrapped  in  a  husk  [or  in  nothingness],  was  developed  by  the  power 
of  fervour.  4.  Desire  first  arose  in  It,  which  was  the  primal  germ 
of  mind;  [and  which]  the  wise,  seeking  by  their  intellect,  have 
discovered  in  their  heart  to  be  the  bond  between  non-entity  and  entity. 
6.  The  ray  [or  cord]  which  stretched  across  these  [worlds], Рђћ was  it 
above,  or  was  it  below  ?  There  were  impregnating  energies,  and 
mighty  powers ;  a  self-supporting  principle  beneath,  and  energy  above. 
6.  Who  knows,  who  here  can  declare,  whence  has  sprung,  whence, 
this  creation  ?  The  gods  are  subsec[uent  to  the  development  of  this 
[universe] ;   who  then  knows  from  what  it  arose  ?     7.    From  what 


ishad,  pp.  26  ff.,  in  BiW.  Ini),  it  is  said,  Na  eva  iha  hinchana  agre  asit  \  mrityuna 
eva  idam  avritam  asTt  \  "  Originally  there  was  nothing  here.  This  was  enveloped  by 
Death,"  etc.  See  also  the  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  27. 

8  In  the  passages  which  I  shall  quote  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  etc.,  further 
on,  we  shall  see  that  the  creative  acts  of  Prajapati  are  constantly  said  to  have  been 
preceded  by  desire ;  so  'kamayata,  "  he  desired,"  etc.  In  a  hymn  of  the  Atharva  V. 
(ix.  2)  Kama  is  personified  as  a  deity.     See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  402  ff. 

*  In  regard  to  water,  as  the  origin  of  all  things,  see  verse  3,  and  the  quotations 
which  are  given  ftirther  on,  from  E.  V.  x.  82,  5  f.,  i.  72,  6 ;  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  etc. 

'  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  under  the  words  abhu  and  tuehhya. 


KIGVEDA  X.  81  and  82;   VISTAKAEMAN.  5 

source  tbis  creation  arose  and  wbether  [any  one]  made  it  or  not,* Рђћ He 
Рќаwho  in  the  highest  heaven  is  its  ruler,  He  knows,  or  [even]  He  does 
not  kno-w." 

See  Professor  Muller's  translation  of  this  remarkable  hymn,  his 
enthusiastic  appreciation  of  its  merits,  and  his  remarks  in  regard  to  its 
age,  in  his  "History  of  Ancient  Sanskrit  Jiiterature,"  pp.  559-566; 
and  Professor  Goldstvicker's  observations  on  the  same  subject  in  his 
"  Panini,"  pp.  144  f.  The  hymn  is  also  translated  and  illustrated  in 
the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  356  ff.,  to  which  I  refer: 

Vi^AKAitMAW, Рђћ ^Eis-VEDA,  X.  81  AND  82  (=Vaj.  Sanh.  xvii.  17-23  ; 
25-31 ;  AND  Taitt.  Sahh.  iv.  6,  2,  1  ff.). 

K.  V.  X.  81,  1  ff. Рђћ  Tdh  itna  viiva  hhuvanani  juhoad  ruhir  hota 
nyashidat  pita  nah  \  ea  dSisha  dravimm  ichhamSnah  pratJiama-chJiad 
avaran'  dvweSa  \  2.  ┬Бim  svid  asld  adhishthdnam  dramhhanam  hathamat 
ivit  hatha  'sit  |  yato  hhumim  janayan  VUvakarma  vi  dydm  aurnod 
makina  vihachahhdh  |  3.  (A.  V.  13,  2,  26)  Vihata^chakshur  uta 
visvatomukho  viivatohdhur  via  vihataspdt  \  sam  Idhuhhyam  dhamati 
\namati:  T.  S.]  sampatatrair  dydva-hhumi  janayan  devah  ekah^  \  4.  Kim 
svid  vanam  [R.  V.  x.  31,  7]  Jcah  u  sa  vrihhah  dsa  yato  dydvd-prithivi 
nishtatahshuh  \  manlshino  manasd  prichhatedu  tad  yad  adhyatishthad  hhu- 
vanani dharayan  |  5.  Yd  te  dhdmdni  paramdni  yd  'vamd  yd  maihyamd 
Viivakarmann  utemd  |  siksha  sakhibhyo  havishi  svadhdvah  svayafh  ycy'asva 
tanvam  vridhdnah  j  6.  (=S.  V.  2,  939.)  ViSvakarman  havishd  vdvridhd- 
nah  svayam  yajasva  prithivim  uta  dydm '  |  muhyantu  anye  abhito 
jandsah'^"  ihdsmdkam  mayhavd  sUrir  astu  [  7.  (=Vaj.  S.  8,  45.) 
Vachaspatim  Viivakarmdnam  utaye  manojuvam  vdje  adya  huvema  \  sa  no 
visvdni  hwvanani  joshad  viivaSamhhar  avase  sddhukarmd  \ 

E.  V.  X.  82,  1  ff. Рђћ Chakshushas  pita  manasd  hi  dhtro  ghritam "  ene 

'  Ob  Einer  aie  schuf  oder  nieht.    Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  under  the  root 
dha  (p.  903). 

'  Paramachhado  vare  \  T.S. 

'  The  A.V.  reads  yo  viivaeharahanir  wta  vtsvatomu&ho  yo  vis'vafaspanir  uta  visva- 
tassprithah  \  mm  hahubhyam  i/iarati,  etc. 

'  Instead  oi prithivim  uta  dyam  the  S.V.  reads  tanvam  sva  hi  te. 
"  Instead  of  janmali  the  Vaj.  S.  reads  sapatnah. 
'1  Compare  R.V.  v.  8S,  8.     See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  140  f. 


6  MGVEDA  I.  81  and  82;   VIS'VAKAEMAN. 

ajanad  namnamane  |  yadd  id  antak  adadrihanta  purve  ad  id  dyava- 
prithivl  aprathetdm  ]  2.  Visvakarmd  vimandh  dd"  vihdyah  dhata 
vidhatd  parama  uta  sarndrih  "  I  tesham  ishtdni  sam  isha  madanti  yatra 
mpta  rishin  pwrdh  ekam  ahu^  \  3.  (=A.  Y.  2,  1,  3.)  To  nah  pita 
janitd  yo  vidhdtd "  dhamani  veda  hkuvandni  viSvd "  |  yo  devdndm 
ndmadhdk  ekah  eva  tain  swmpra&na/m  Ihuvand  yanti  anya  \  4.  Te 
ayajanta  d/ravinaih  sam  asmai  rishayah  purve  jaritdro  na  hhuna  | 
[=Mr.  vi.  15]  asurtte  aurtte  rajasi  nishatte'^^  ye  bhutdni  samakrinvann 
imani  \  5.  Faro  diva  par  ah  end  prithivyd  pa/ro  devehhir  asurair  yad 
asti"  I  kam  svid  ga/rhham  prathamaffi  dadhre  dpo  yatra  devdh  sama- 
pasyanta  visve  '\  6.  Tarn  id  garbham  prathamam  dadhre  apo  yatra  devdh 
samagaehhanta  viive  ]  a^asya  ndhhdv  adhy  ekam  a/rpitam  yasmin  visvdni 
ihuvandni  tasthuh^^  |  -7.  Na  tarn  viddiha  yah  imdjajdna  anyad  ymhrnd- 
ham  antaram  habhSma  '┬░  |  rtihdrena prdwitdlj,  jabpyd  cha  asutripah  uktha- 
idsai  eharanti  \ 

E,.  V.  X.  81,  1  ff. Рђћ "Our  fatter,  who,  a  risM  and  a  priest,  celebrated 
a  sacrifice,  offering  up  all  these  creatures, Рђћ he,  earnesUy  desiring  sub- 
stance, he,  the  archetype,  entered  into  later  [men].  2.  What  was  the 
position,  which  and  whence  was  the  principle,  from  which  the  all-seeing 
Visvakarman  produced  the  earth,  and  disclosed  the  sky  by  Ms  might  ? 
3.  The  one  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  on  every  side  a  face,  on 
every  side  arms,  on  every  side  feet,  when  producing  the  sky  and  earth, 
shapes  them "'  with  his  arms  and  with  his  wings.  4.  What  was  the 
wood,  what  was  the  tree,  out  of  whic^  they  fashioned  the  heaven  and 


"  Kanaaay(iA\  T.S. 

"  See  E.V.  iv.  1,  6,  and  iv.  6,  '6,  and  Roth's  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  i.  26,  p.  Ul. 

1*  Instead  of  yo  vidhata  the  A.V.  has  so  Ma  bandhuh. 

"  To  nah  sato  abhi  a  scyjajana  \  T.  S. 

"  Asurfa  surta  rajmo  mmane  ,|  T.  S. 

"  Guka  yat  \  T.  S. 

"  After  this  verse  the  Taitt.  Sanh.  has  the  follo-wjng  [=Vaj.  S.  ivii.  32]  :  VUva- 
karmS  hy  ajanishta  devah  ad  id  gandhano  aihavad  dvitiyah  |  trittyah  pita  janiia 
oshadhmam  apam  garbham  vyadadhat  purutra  |  "  The  god  Vis'vakarman  was  born  : 
then  the  Gandhatva  was  produced  the  second ;  the  third  was  the  father,  the  generator 
of  plants ;  he  divided  into  many  parts  the  source  of  the  waters." 

"  Bhavati  |  T.S. 

┬╗┬╗  Compare  R.V.  x.  72,  2,  below,  p.  11 ;  and  E.  V.  iv.  2-17  ( =  A.  V.  xviii.  3,  22)  : 
Ayo  na  devah  Janima  dhamantah  \  "  The  gods  blowing  on  [or  shaping]  productions, 
like  iron." 


EIGVEDA  X.  81  and  82;   VISTAKARMAN.  7 

the  earth  ?  *Рђб  Inquire  mentally,  ye  sages,  what  that  was  on  which  he 
took  his  stand,  when  establishing  the  worlds.  5.  Do  thou,  Yi^va- 
karman,  grant  to  thy  friends  those  thy  abodes  which  are  the  highest, 
and  the  lowest,  and  the  middle,  and  these.  Thou  who  art  strong  in  the 
oblation,  exhilarated,  thyself  offer  up  thyself.'"  6.  Do  thou,  Yi^va- 
karman,  delighted  by  the  sacrifice,  thyself  offer  up  heaven  and  earth. 
Let  other  men  who  are  round  about  me  become  confbunded.  May  a 
generous  son  remain  here  to  us.'''  7.  Let  us  to-day  invoke  in  our 
conflict  the  lord  of  speech,  who  is  swift  as  thought,  Yisvakarman,  for 
succour.  May  he  who  is  the  source  of  all  prosperity,  the  beneficent, 
with  a  view  to  our  protection,  receive  graciously  all  our  invocations." 

E.  V.  X.  82,  1. Рђћ "  The  father  of  insight,  wise  in  mind,  impregnated 
with  sap  these  two  [worlds]  as  they  bowed  down  [before  him].  When 
their  remotest  ends  were  fixed,  then  the  heaven  and  earth  extended. 
2.  Yisvakarman  is  wise,  energetic,  the  creator,  the  disposer,  and  the 
highest  object  of  intuition.  The  objects'  of  their  desire  inspire  them 
with  gladness  in  the  place  where  men  say  that  the  One  dwells  beyond 
[the  abode  of]  the  seven  rishis.  3.  He  who  is  our  father,  our  creator, 
disposer,  who  knows  all  spheres  and  creatures,  who  alone  assigns  to  the 
gods  their  names,'*  to  him  the  other  creatures  resort  for  instruction. 
4.  The  former  rishis,  who  fashioned  these  creatures  in  the  remote,  the 
near,  and  the  lower  atmosphere,  offered  to  him,  like  worshippers, 
substance  in  abundance.  6.  That  which  is  beyond  the  sky,  beyond 
this  earth,  beyond  gods  and  spirits, Рђћ what  earliest  embryo  did  the 
waters ''  contain,  in  which  all  the  gods  were  beheld  ?  6.  The  waters 
contained  that  earliest  embryo  in  which  all  the  gods  were  collected. 


"  Tiis  half  verse  also  occurs  in  E.  V.  i.  31,  7.  The  second  half  verse,  as  also  the 
answer  given  to  the  question  in  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  8,  9,  6,  "  Brahma  was  the  wood, 
Brahma  was  that  tree,"  etc.,  are  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  32. 

"  See,  however,  Eoth,  s.v.  tanu,  and  E.  V.  x.  7,  6 ;  vi.  11,  2. 

'^  Prof.  Aufreoht  proposes  to  translate  this  verse  as  follows:  "May  all  other 
people  around  us  vanish  into  nothing,  but  our  own  offspring  remain  blessed  in 
this  world."  In  proof  of  the  sense  of  "  offspring,"  or  "  son,"  here  assigned  to  suri 
(though  it  has  not  always  this  meaning),  he  refers  to  E.  V.  v.  42,  i ;  vi.  26,  7 ; 
vi.  63,  11 ;  vi.  68,  7  i  vii.  66,  9 ;  viii.  26,  12.  This  sense  is  perhaps  also  recom- 
mended by  the  parallel  in  E.V.  i.  181, 4,  between  mmaTfhaaya  suri^  and  divahputrah. 

'^  Nama  eha  pita  eva  haroti  \  Mahidhara. 

'5  Compare  verses  laiid  3  of  E.  V.  x.  129,  above,  p.  3. 


8  PEOFESSOK  EOTH'S  EEMAEKS  ON 

One  [receptacle]  rested  upon  the  navel  of  the  unborn,  wherein  all 
beings  stood.  7.  Te  cannot  know  him  who  produced  these  things; 
something  else  is  within  you.  The  chanters  of  hymns  go  about 
enveloped  in  mist,  and  unsatisfied  with  idle  talk." 

I  have  placed  these  two  hymns  together,  as  they  are  so  similar  in 
character.  The  sense  in  some  parts  of  them  is  clear,  in  others  very 
obscure.  The  verses  of  which  they  are  made  up  are  all  to  be  found 
in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  (xvii.  17-23,  and  25-31),  in  the  same 
order  in  which  they  occur  in  the  Eig-veda,  and  without  any  various 
readings  of  importance.  They  are  also  repeated  in  the  Taittiriya 
Sanhita,  with  variations,  of  which  the  chief  have  been  noted  above. 
Some  of  them  also  occur  in  the  Nirukta;  viz.,  R.  V.  x.  81,  6  in  Nir. 
X.  27 ;  E.  V.  X.  82,  2  in  Nir.  x.  26 ;  the  second  half  of  E.  V.  x.  82, 
4  in  Nir.  vi.  15 ;  and  E.  V.  x.  82,  7  in  Nir.  Parisishta,  ii.  10. 
Professor  Eoth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (pp.  141,  f.),  offers 
some  remarks  on  the  2nd  verse  of  the  second,  and  the  6th  verse  of  the 
first,  of  the  hymns  before  us,  which  I  shall  translate.  He  renders 
the  former  verse  thus  :  "  Vilvakarman,  wise  and  mighty  in  act,  is  the 
creator,  the  orderer,  and  the  highest  image  [for  the  spiritual  faculty]. 
That  which  men  desire  is  the  attainment  of  good  in  the  world  where 
the  One  Being  dwells  beyond  the  seven  rishis."  He  then  proceeds  to 
observe :  "  Vi^vakarraan,  who  is  no  mythological  personage,  but  the 
'  creator  of  all  things,'  and  who  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  12,  61,^"  is 
so  far  rightly  identified  with  Prajapati,  is  here  celebrated  as  equally 
wise  in  design,  and  powerful  in  execution  (the  highest  conception 
which  can  be  attained  by  man) :  and  from  him  the  fulfilment  of  every 
desire  is  obtained  beyond  the  starry  heaven,  where  he  resides  alone, 

without  the  numerous  deities  of  the  popular  creed The  legend, 

which  relates  that  Viivakarman,  son  of  Bhuvana,  after  he  had  offered 
up  all  beings  in  sacrifice,  concluded  by  offering  up  himself,  belongs,  in 
my  opinion,  to  the  numerous  class  of  stories  which  haye  arisen  out 
of  a  misunderstanding  of  Vedic  passages,  viz.,  in  the  present  instance, 
verses  1  and  5  of  E.  V.  x.  81." 

The  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  viii.  2,  1,  10,  and  viii.  2,  3,  13,  identifies 
Yisvakarman  with  Prajapati  {Praj'dpatir  vai  VUvakarma).     See  also 

*'  Prajapatir  Visvakarma  vimunchatti. 


EIGVEDA  X.  81  and  82,  AND  VISTAKARMAN.  9 

the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  iv.  22,  and  Professor  Haug's  translation, 
p.  299. 

The  legend  here  referred  to  by  Professor  Both  is  given  by  Taska, 
Nirukta,  x.  26 ; 

Tatretihdsam  dchahhaU  |  Viivakm-ma  Bhawanah  sarmmedhe  sarvdm 
hhutani  juhmanchakara  sa  dtmdnam  wpy  antato  juhavanchahara  \  tad- 
ahhivadiny  eshd  riff  hhmati  'yah  imd  viivd  Ihmandni  juhvad^  iti  | 
"  Here  they  tell  a  story :  Vi^vakarman  son  of  Bhuvana  offered  up 
all  creatures  at  a  universal  sacrifice  (sarvcmedha).  He  finally  offered 
up  himself  also.  The  following  verse  (E.  V.  x.  81,  1)  is  descriptive 
of  this,  viz.,  '  he  who  offering  up  all  beings,'  etc." 

Some  further  passages  relating  to  Yisvakarman  will  be  found  below, 
in  the  sixth  section  of  the  third  chapter,  to  which,  as  well  as  to  the 
first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  52,  76,  and  456  f.,  and  to  the  fifth 
volume,  p.  372,  I  may  refer. 

On  the  6th  verse  of  the  first  of  the  hymns  before  us  (E.  V.  x.  81), 
Professor  Koth  remarks  thus :  "  Por  the  correct  understanding  of  the 
second  pada  (the  latter  half  of  the  first  line),  and  similar  passages, 
the  reader  should  compare  E.  V.  x.  7,  6,  yafha  'yajah  ritubkir  deva 
devdn  evd  yqfasva  tanvam  suj'dfa  |  '  As  thou  (0  Agni)  at  the  measured 
times,  0  god,  didst  sacrifice  to  the  gods,  so  sacrifice  also  to  thyself.' 
Agni  is  to  accept  the  offering  for  himself  also.  In  the  same  way 
are  the  words  of  the  5th  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  to  be  under- 
stood ;  svayam  yof'asva  tanvam  vridhdnah  \  '  sacrifice  to  thyself  for  thine 
own  glorification ' :  the  idea  of  self-immolation  has.  arisen  from  a 
misunderstanding  of  the  word  tanu "  and  of  the  construction  of  the 
root  yaj.  The  1st  verse  of  the  same  hymn  (E.  V.  x.  81,  1)  is,  as  it 
appears  to  me,  to  be  understood  in  a  similar  manner :  '  He  who  re- 
ceived all  these  creatures  as  offerings.'    In  the  passage  before  us  (the 


"  In  his  remarks  on  the  word  Tanunapat  in  p.  117  of  his  Illustrations,  Professor 
Both  oljperves :  "  The  signification  has  been  overlooked,  which  tanii  obtains  in  the 
older  Sanskrit,  as  well  as  in  Zend  and  modern  Persian,  as  it  there  designates  our 
own  person,  our  self,  in  contrast  to  things  belonging  to  us.  Hence  I  might  explain 
the  word  Tanunapat  as  meaning  '  his  own  son.'  Agni  is  his  own  son,  because  he 
springs  into  life  either  as  lightning,  or  from  the  friction  of  wood,  without  being  the 
product  of  similar  phenomena,  or  powers,"  See  also  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon, 
under  the  word  Tanunapat. 


10  BHAGAVATA  PUEANA  QUOTED. 

6  th  verse  of  E.  V.  x.  81)  the  words  would  therefore  be  rendered  as 
follows:  ' YiiJvakarman,  glorify  thyself  by  the  sacrifice,  offer  up  to 
thyself  heaven  and  earth.'  The  idea  of  sacrifice  is  introduced,  because 
every  portion  of  the  created  universe  which  is  given  as  a  possession 
to  the  gods,  comes  to  them,  in  the  shape  of  a  sacrifice.  The  god  who 
takes  anything  into  his  possession  is  said  to  offer  it  to  himself.  The 
various  reading  which  we  find  in  the  Sama-veda,  ii.  939,  as  compared 
with  the  verse  before  us  (viz.,  tanvdm  svd  hi  te,  '  offer  thy  body,  for 
it  is  thine,'  instead  oi prithivim  uta  dyam,  'offer  earth  and  heaven ') 
may  be  an  amendment  in  support  of  the  legend." 

I  do  not  know  whether  this  view  is  consistent  with  the  6th  and 
7th  verses  of  the  Purusha  Sukta.  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  8,  9,  and  the  fifth  volume,  pp.  367,  ff.  Possibly  both  conceptions 
(that  of  the  gods  sacrificing  themselves,  and  that  of  their  sacriflciag  to 
themselves)  may  have  been  entertained  by  the  Vedic  writers. 

[I  may  here  remark  that  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  ii.  6,  15  ff.,  gives 
a  sort  of  paraphrase  on  the  Purusha  Sukta.  The  author  there  puts 
into  the  mouth  of  Brahma  the  following  lines  (verses  21  ff.),  which 
are  intended  to  illustrate  the  7th  and'  following  stanzas  of  that 
allegorical  hymn : 

21.  Tada  'sya  ndlhyad  nalinad  dham  asam  mahdtmwnah.  \  ndvindaih 
yc^'na-samhhdrdn  Puruslmvaymdn  rite  |  22.  Teshu  yajnasya  pasmah 
sa-vanaspatayah  kuidh  |  idancha  deva-yajanam  Tcdlai  ehoru-gmdrmitah  \ 
23.  Vastuny  oshadayah  snehdh  rasa-loha-mrido  j'alam  \  richo  yqfu&shi 
sdmdni  chdtwhotrancha  sattama  1 24.  Ndmadheydni  mantrds  cha  dakshinas 
eha  vratdni  cha  \  devatdnukramah  Icalpah  sarikaVpas  tantram  eva  cha  \ 
25.  Gatayo  matayai  chaiva  prdyaichitta^  samarpamm  \  Furushdva- 
yavair  etc  samlhdrdh  samhhritdh  mayd  \  26.  Iti  sambhriia-samlhdrah 
Purushdvayavair  dham  \  tarn  eva  Pwushaih  yajnafh  tenaivdycy'am  iivaram  | 

Рђб"21.  "When  I  was  produced,"  says  Brahma,  "from  the  lotus  sprung 
out  of  the  navel  of  that  great  Being,  I  found  no  materials  for  sacrifice 
excepting  the  members  of  Purusha.  22.  Among  them  were  the 
victims,  the  sacrificial  posts,  the  Kusa  grass ;  they  formed  the  sacrificial 
ground,  and  the  seasons  with  their  various  qualities.  The  utensils, 
the  grains,  the  unctuous  substances,  the  flavours,  the  metals,  the  earths, 
the  water,  the  verses  of  the  Eich,  the  Tajush,  and  the  Saman,  the 
functions  of  the  four  priests,  the  names  [of  the  rites],  the  texts,  the 


EIGVEDA  X.  72;  BRAHMAN  ASP  ATI,  ADITI  AND  DAKSHA.         II 

gifts,  the  vows,  the  list  of  deities,  the  ritual  rules,  the  designs,  the 
forms,  the  arrangements,  the  meditations,  the  expiation,  the  dedi^ 
cation, Рђћ all  these  essentials  of  sacrifice  were  derived  hy  me  from  the 
members  of  Purusha.  Having  thus  drawn  from  the  members  of 
Purusha  all  these  appliances,  I  by  this  means  offered  up  Purusha,  the 
lord  [himself],  as  a  sacrifice."] 

In  his  note  on  the  Nirukta,  vi,  15,  Professor  Eoth  translates 
the  4th  verse  of  the  second  hymn  before  us  (E.  V.  82)  as  'follows  : 
"  They  who  in  still,  in  moving,  and  falling  vapour  {rajas)  created 

those  beings furnished  to   him  the  material."     In  his 

Lexicon,  however,  he  renders  the  word  asurtta,  not  by  "still,"  but  by 
"distant;"  and  quotes  A.  V.  x.  3,  9,  as  another  passage  in  which 
it  occurs. 

The  later  conception  of  Visvakarman,  as  the  artificer  of  the  gods,  is 
found  in  the  following  passage  of  the  Mahabharata,  i,  2592 :  Vika- 
karmd  mahabhiigo  jajne  Ul^a-prajapatih  \  Tcmrta  Ulpa-sahasranam  trida- 
idnam  eha  vardhaM^  \  hhushanandmcha  sarvesham  harta  silpaoatdm, 
varah  \  yo  dwydni  vimandni  tridaidndfh  chakdra  ha  \  manmhyd^  ehopa- 
jivanti  tasya  iilpam  maMtmanah  \  pujayanti  cha  yafn  nityaffi  Viivaiarmd- 
nam  avyayam  \  "  Thea  was  born  the  illustrious  Visvakarman,  the  lord 
of  the  arts,  executor  of  a  thousand  handicrafts,  the  carpenter  of  the 
gods,  the  fashioner  of  all  ornaments,  the  most  eminent  of  artisans,  who 
formed  the  celestial  chariots  of  the  deities ;  on  whose  craft  men  subsist, 
and  whom,  a  great  and  immortal  god,  they  continually  worship." 

BEAHMiNASPATI,    BaxSHA,    AND    Ami, Рђћ ElO-VEDA,    X.    11.^ 

E.  V.  X.  72,  1  ff. Рђћ Devdndm  nii  vayamj'dnd  pravocMma  vipanyayd  \ 
uMheshu  iaiyamanesJm  yah  pa^ydd  uttare  yuge"  \  2.  Brahmamspatir  eta 
sam  karmdrah^  ivddhamat  j  devdnam  purvye  yuge  amtah  sad  ajdyata^'  | 

"  This  hymn  is  also  translated  and  illustrated  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.48ff. 

29  See  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  Sama-veda,  under  the  word  yttga;  and  the  first 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  45  f. 

'"  Karmarah  \  aa  yatha  bhastraya  'gnim  upadhamaty  evam  udapadayat  \  (Sayana) 
"  As  a  blacksmith  blows  up  a  fire  with  a  bellows,  so  he  created  them."  Compare 
E.  V.  X.  81,  3,  above  p.  6,  and  note  20,  there. 

"  Compare  Atharra-veda  x.  7,  25. Рђћ Brihanto  noma  te devah ye' mta^ pari jajnire  | 
ekam  tad  angam  Skamhhasya  asad  ahuh  paro  jana^  \  "  Great  are  those  gods  who 


12  BEAHMANASPATI,  TJTTAKAPAD,  ADITI,  DAKSHA. 

3.  Devdndm  yuge  prathame  asatah  sad  ajayata  \  tad  diah  anv  ajdyanta 
tad  Uttdnapadas  pari  \  4.  Bhur  jajne  Uttdnapado  hJimahdidh  lydyanta  \ 
Aditer  Bahsho  ajayata  Dakshdd  u  Aditihpari  \  (comp.  K.  V.  x.  90,  5.) 
6.  Aditir  hi  ajanishta  Daksha  yd  duhitd  tava  \  Tdm  devdh  anv  ajayanta 
hhadrdh  atnrita-handhavah  \  6.  Yad  devdh  adah  salile^  smamraldhdh 
atishthata  \  atra  vo  nrityatdm  iva  tivro  rermr  apdyata  \  7.  Yad  devah^ 
yatayo  yathd  bhuvandni  apinvata  |  atra  samudre  dgulham  d  suryam  aja- 
hkarttana  |  8.  Ashtau  putrdso  Aditer  ye  jdtds  tanvaa  pari  I  devdn  upa 
prait  saptdbhih  pa/rB.  Marttdndam  dsyaf'  |  2.  Saptalhih  putrair  Aditer 
upa  prait  purvyam  yugam  \  prqjdyai  mrityave  tvat  punar  Marttdndam 
dhharat'^  | 

"1.  Let  us  celebrate  with  exultation  the  births  of  the  gods,  in 
chanted  hymns,  [every  one  of  us],  who  may  behold  them  in  [this] 
later  age.  2.  Brahmanaspati  shaped  all  these  [beings]  like  a  black- 
smith. In  the  earliest  age  of  the  gods,  the  existent  sprang  from  the 
non-existent.  3.  In  the  first  age  of  the  gods  the  existent  sprang  from, 
the  non-existent.  Thereafter  the  different  regions  sprang  forth  from 
Uttanapad.  4.  The  earth  sprang  from  Uttanapad;  from  the  earth 
j\  sprang  the  regions.  Daksha  sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  [came] 
)ir^  '  forth  from  Daksha.  5.  For  Aditi  was  prodnoed,  she  who  is  thy 
daughter,  0  Daksha.  After  her  the  gods  came  into  being,  blessed, 
sharers  in  immortality.  6.  When,  0  gods,  ye  moved,  strongly  agitated, 
on  that  water,  there  a  violent  dust  issued  forth  from  you,  as  from 
dancers.  7.  When  ye,  0  gods,  like  devotees  [or  strenuous  men], 
replenished  the  worlds,  then  ye  disclosed  the  sun  which  had  been 


sprang  from  non-entity.  Men  eay  that  that  remote  non-entity  is  one  member  of 
Skambha."  This  production  of  the  gods  out  of  nothing  seems,  on  one  interpretation, 
to  be  contrary  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Chhandogya  TJpanishad.  Tad  ha  elee  ahur  "  asad 
evedam  agre  asid  ekam  evadtiitiyam  tasmad  asatah  saj  jayeta  "  |  Kutas  tu  Ichalu  saumya 
evam  syad  iti  hovaeha  Icatham  asatah  saj  jayeta  iti  \  (Biblioth.  Ind.  vol.  iii.  pp.  389, 
392.)  "  Some  say  '  this  was  originally  non-existent,  one  without  a  second ;  therefore 
the  existent  must  spring  from  the  non-existent.'  '  But  how,  gentle  friend,'  he  said, 
'  can  it  be  so  P  how  can  the  existent  spring  from  the  non-existent  P'"  See  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  358  ff. 

┬Ф  Compare  R.  V.  x.  129, 1,  3,  above,  p.  3. 

3'  Here  Sayana  makes  yatayah  meghah,  "  clouds."  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  49,  note  92. 

'*  Farasyat.=ttpari praMhipat,  " iossei  aXoft"  (Sayana). 

3"  Abharat'=aharal=dyulqk6  adhdrayat,  " placed  in  the  sky  "  (Sayana). 


TASKA  AND  EOTH  ON  RIGVEDA  x.  72.  13 

hidden  in  the  ocean.  8.  Of  the  eight  sons  who  were  horn  from  the 
body  of  Aditi,  she  approached  the  gods  with  seven,  but  oast  away 
[the  eighth]  Marttanda  [the  sun].  9.  With  seven  sons  [only]  Aditi 
approached  the  former  generation  of  gods.  Again,  -for  birth  as  well  as 
for  death  she  disclosed  Marttanda."  '' 

In  E.  V.  vi.  50,  2,  mention  is  made  of  certain  luminous  gods 
{sujyotishah)  as  being  the  sons  or  descendants  of  Daksha  {Baksha- 
pitrm).^  These  notices  of  Daksha  which  occur  in  the  Eig-veda  have 
been  greatly  developed  in  the  later  mythology,  as  may  be  seen  by  a  <^ 
reference  to  the  passages  given  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  66,  72,  116,  122  ff.,  etc.  TJttanapada  is  said  in  the  Vishnu  and 
other  Puranas  to  have  been  a  son  of  Mann  Svayambhuva  by  S'atarupa 
(*<?.  pp.  65,  72,  106,  114). 

On  the  fourth  verse  of  this  hymn  Taska  remarks  as  follows  in  the 
Firukta,  xi.  23 :  Adityo  Bakihah  ity  ahw  Aditya-mddhye  cha  stutah  \ 
Aditir  BalcsliayaM  \  "  Aditer  Baksko  ajayata  BaksMd  u  Aditih pari" 
iti  cha  I  tat  katham  vpapadyeta  |  samana-janmana/u  syatam  ity  api  vd 
deva-dharmem  itaretmra-janmanau  syatam  itaretara-prakriti  |  "Daksha 
is,  they  say,  a  son  of  Aditi,  and  is  praised  among  the  sons  of  Aditi. 
And  Aditi  is  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  [according  to  the  text]  Bahka 
sprang  from  Aditi,  and  Aditi  came  forth  from  Bahha.  How  can  this 
be  possible  ?  They  may  have  had  the  same  origin  ;  or,  according  to  the 
nature  of  the  gods,  they  may.  have  been  born  from  each  other, Рђћ have 
derived  their  substance  from  one  another."  See  also  Nirukta  vii.  4,  as 
quoted  below  in  chapter  ii.  sect. -5. 

Eoth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta  (p.  151),  translates  the  4th 
and  5th  verses  of  the  hymn  before  us:  "Bhu  (the  world)  was  born,  and 
from  her  opened  womb  (Uttanapad)  sprang  the  Spaces:  from  Aditi 
was  bom  Daksha  (spiritual  force),  and  from  Daksha  again  Aditi.     Tes, 

'*  The  word  Marttanda  is  compounded  of  two  words  martta,  apparently  derived 
from  mrityu,  death,  and  anda,  an  egg,  or  place  of  production.  The  last  line  seems 
to  contain  an  allusion  to  this  derivation  of  the  word,  The  Harivamsa  v.  549,  thus 
interprets  the  word :  Na  hhalv  ayam  mrito  'ndasthah  iti  snehad  abhSihata  \  ojnanat 
Kaiyapaa  tasmad  Marttandah  iti  chooh/yede  \  "Ka^yapa,  from  affection,  but  in 
ignorance,  said,  '  he  is  not  dead,  abiding  in  the  egg ;'  hence  he  is  called  Marttanda." 
See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  49,  note  94.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  assign  to 
the  word  in  this  passage  the  sense  of  "  bird."     See  R.  V.  ii.  38,  8-25 . 

''  See,  however,  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  51  f. 


14  SATANA  AND  S'ATAPATHA  BKAHMANA  ON  EV.  x.  72. 

Aditi  -was  born,  0  Daksha,  she  who  is  thy  daughter;  after  her  the  gods 
were  produced,  the  blessed  possessors  of  immortality."  He  then  pro- 
ceeds to  remark :  "  Daksha,  spiritual  force,  is  the  male  power,  which 
generates  the  gods  in  eternity.  As  Bhu  (the  "World  or  Being)  and 
Space  are  the  principles  of  the  Finite,  so  to  both  of  these  is  due  the 
beginning  of  divine  life." 

Sayana  annotates  thus  on  the  8th  verse  of  the  hymn : 

"  Ashtau  putrasah  "  putrah  Mitradayo  'diter  bhcwanti  |  "  Te  Adites 
tanvas  pari"  sarirSj  "j'atdh"  utparma^  \  Aditer  ashta-puirdh  Adh- 
varyma-lrahmane  pariganitah  \  tathd  hi  \  "  tan  anuhramishyamo 
Mitral  eha  Varuntd  cha  Bhata  eha  Aryama  oha  Am&as  eha  Bhagai  eha 
Vivasvdn  AdityaS  cheti"  |  tathd  tatraiva  pradeSdntare  Aditim  prastutya 
dmndtam  "  tasyah  uchchheshanam  adadhus  tat  prdsndt  \  sd  reto  'dhatta 
tasyai  chatvdrah  Aditydh  Ojdyanta  sd  dvittyam  apihad "  ityddind  ash- 
tandm  Aditydndm  utpattir  varnitd  \ 

"  Eight  sons,  Mitra  and  the  rest,  were  born  to  Aditi,  who  sprang 
from  her  body.  Eight  sons  of  Aditi  are  enumerated  in  the  Brahmana 
of  the  Adhvaryus,  thus :  '  We  shall  state  them  in  order,  Mitra, 
Varuna,  Dhatri,  Aryaman,  Amsa,  Bhaga,  Vivasvat,  and  Aditya.' 
In  another  part  of  the  same  work,  after  reference  has  been  made  to 
Aditi,  it  is  recorded:  "They  placed  before  her  the  remnant  of  the 
sacrifice.  She  ate  it.  She  conceived  seed.  Four  Adityas  were  born 
to  her.  She  drank  the  second  [portion],'  etc.  Thus  is  narrated  the 
birth  of  the  eight  Adityas."  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work, 
pp.  26  f. 

The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (3,  1,  3,  3  fi'.)  gives  the  following  expla- 
nation of  the  same  (the  8th)  verse  of  this  hymn : 

Ashtau  ha  vai  putrdh  Aditeh  \  Ydms  tv  etad  "  devdh  Aditydh  "  ity 
dchahshate  sapta  ha  eva  te  \  avihritam  '*  ha  ashtamam  janayanchakdra 
Marttdndam  \  sandegho^^  ha  evdsa  \  ydvdn  evordhvas  tavams  tiryan  ' 
purmha-sammitah  ity  u  ha  eke  dhuh  |  4.  Teu  ha  ete  uchur  devdh  Aditydh 
"  yad  asmdn  am  afanimd  tad  amuyeva  bhud  \  hanta  imam  vikaravdma  " 
iti  I  tarn  viohakrur  yathd  'yam  purusho  vikritas  tasya  ydni  mdmsdni 
sankritya  sannydsus  tato  hasti  samabhavat  |  tasmdd  dhur  "na  hastinam 


^8  Avikritam  hara-eharanSdi-vikarnh  iti  tad-rahitam  \  Comm. 
''  Samyag  upachitalf  smnah  evastt  |  Comiu. 


EIGTEDA  X.  121;  HIRANTAGAEBHA.  15 

parigrihmydt  pwushajdno  *"  Jd  hastl  "  iti  \  yam  u  hd  tad  vichalcru^  sa 
Vwasvdn  Adityas  tasya  imd^  prajdh  \ 

After  quoting  the  text  of  the  Eig-veda,  the  author  of  the  Brahmana 
proceeds : 

"Aditi  had  eight  sons.  But  there  are  only  seven  [gods]  whom 
men  call  the  Aditya  deities.  Por  she  produced  the  eighth,  Mart- 
tanda,  destitute  of  any  modifications  of  shape  (without  hands  and 
feet,  etc.).  He  was  a  smooth  lump;  of  the  dimensions  of  a  man, 
as  hroad  as  long,  say  some.  The  Aditya  deities  said,  '  If  in  his  nature 
he  he  not  conformahle  to  ours,  then  it  will  he  unfortunate ;  come  let 
us  alter  his  shape.'  Thus  saying,  they  altered  his  shape,  as  this  man 
is  modified  (by  possessing  different  members).  An  elephant  sprang 
out  of  those  [pieces  of]  his  flesh  which  they  cut  off,  and  threw  away. 
Wherefore  men  say,  'let  no  one  catch  an  elephant,  for  an  elephanft 
partakes  of  the  nature  of  man.'  He  whom  they  then  altered  was 
Vivasvat  (the  Sun)  the  son  of  Aditi,  from  whom  these  creatures  are 
descended." 

HiEANTAGAEBHA, Рђћ ElO-VEDA,  X.  121. 

E,V-  X.  121,  1  ff.  (Vaj.  S.  13,  4:  A.  V.  4,  2,  1)РђћEiranyaga/rhhah^'^ 
eamwvarttatdgre  Ihutasya  jatah  "  patir  ekah  asit  \  sa  dddhdra  prithivim 
dydm  utemdm  kasmai  devdya"  havishd  vidhema  \  2.  (Vaj.  S.  25,  13  : 
A.  Y.  4,  2,  1.)  Ya  dtmaddh  haladdh  yasya  viive  vpdsate  praiisham,  yasya 
devdh  I  yasya  chhdyd  amritam  yasya  mrityuh  kasmai  devdya  ityadi  \  3. 

*"  Piirushajanahptmaha-pratiritilcah  \  Comm. 

*'Рќа  Siranye  hiranya-purmha-rupe  brahmande  garha-rupena  avasthitali  Prajapaiir 
Siranyctgarhhaji  bhufasya  pranijatasya  agre  samavarttaia  pranijatotpattph  pura 
svayam  iarlra-dharl  hahhuva  \  Prajapati  Hiranyagarbha,  existing  as  an  embryo, 
in  the  egg  of  Brabma,  which  was  golden, Рђћ consisting  of  the  golden  male  [purmha), Рђћ 
sprang  into  being  before  all  living  creatures;  himself  took  a  body  before  the  pro- 
duction of  all  living  creatures."  Mahidhara  on  Vaj.  S.  13,  4.  (Compare  the  words 
hiranmay all  8 akimir  Brahma  ndma  |  "The  golden  bird,  namely  Brahma,"  in  Taitt. 
Br.  3,  12,  9,  7.) 

*^  Jata^.    Compare  E.  V.  il.  12,  1 ;  E.  V.  a.  133,  2,  asatrw  Indrajajnishe Рђћ 

"  Indra,  thou  hast  been  born  without  a  rival ; "  and  E.V.  viii.  21,  13 tvam 

anapir  Indra  j'anusha  sanad  asi  |  "  Indra  of  old  art  thou  by  nature  without  a  fellow." 

"  Kasmai  devaya  |  Kasmai  Kaya  Frajapataye  devaya  |  "  Kasmai,  '  to  whom,'  is 
for  Kaya,  the  dative  of  Ka,  the  god  Prajapati."  Comm.  on  Vaj.  S.  13,  4.  Prajapaiir 
vai  Kastasmai  hanisha  vidhema  \  "  Ka  is  Prajapati :  to  him  let  us  offer  our  oblations." 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  7,  4,  1,  19. 


16  EIGVEDA  X.  121;  HIRANTAGAEBHA. 

(Vaj.  S.  23,  3 :  A.  V.  4,  2,  2.)  Yah  pranato  nimishato  maUtva  ekah  id 
raja  jagato  lahhuva  |  t/a  Ih  asya  dvipadai  ehatushpadah  kasmai  ityadt  | 
4.  (Vaj.  S.  26,  12 :  A.  V.  4,  2,  5.)  Tasyeme  himavanto  mahitva  yasya 
samud/rafii  rasaya^  sahahuh  \  yasyemah  pradUo  yasya  bahu  kasmai 
ityddi  \  5.  (Vaj.  S.  32,  6,  7  :  A.  V.  4,  2,  3,  4.)  Yena  dymr  ugra 
priikivl  cha  drilhd  yena  svah  siahhitaM  yena  nalcah  \  yo  antarikshe  rcvjaso 
vimdnah  kasmai  ityadi  |  6.  Yam  krandasi"  avasd  tastahhane  ahhy 
aikshetdm  manasd  rejamdne  |  yatrddhi  surah  udito  vibhdii  kasmai  ityddi  \ 
7.  (Vaj.  S.  27,  25 :  A.  V.  4,  2,  6,  8.)  Apo  ha  yad  Irihatir  viivam  dyan 
garhharn  ^  dadhdndh  janayantlr  agnim  \  tato  devdndm  samwoarttatdsur 
ekah  kasmai  ityddi  |  8.  (=Vaj.  S.  27,  26.)  Yai  chid  dpo  mahind 
pa/ryapaiyad  daksham  dadhdndh  janayantlr  yajnam  \  yo  deveshv  adhi  devah 
ekah  asit  kasmai  ityddi  \  9.  (=Vaj.  S.  12,  102.)  Md  no  himsij  janitd 
yah  prithivydh  yo  vd  divafh  satyadharmd  jajdnd  \  yak  ehdpai  ehandrah 
Irihatir  jajdna  kasmai"  ityddi \  10.  (=Vaj.  S.  10,  20 :  A.  V.  7,  79,  4  ; 
7,  80,  3 ;  Nir.  x.  43.)  Prajdpate  na  tvad  etdny  anyo  viim  jdtdni  pari 
td  lahhuva  \  yatkdmds  te  juhumas  tan  no  astu  vayafh  sydma  patayo 


"1.  Hiranyagarbha  arose  in  the  beginning;  born,  he  was  the  one 
lord  of  things  existing.  He  established  the  earth  and  this  sky:  to 
what  god  shall  we  offer  our  oblation  ?  2.  He  who  gives  breath;  who 
gives  strength,  whose  command  all,  [even]  the  gods,  reverence,  whose 


**  On  the  word  rata,  see  the  second  volume  of  this  wort,  p.  343,  note  119. 

*'  Krandasl  \  "  This  word  is  explained  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  as 
meaning  (not  heaven  and  earth,  as  Mahidhara  in  loco  understands  it,  and  Sayana  on 
E.  V. ii.  12,  8,  alternatively  interprets, Рђћ the  other  sense  assigned  being,  armies,Рђћ  but) 
two  armies  engaged  in  battle.    See  the  references  there  given. 

^8  Compare  with  verses  7  and  8,  the  preceding  hymns,  x.  129,  1,  3  ;  i.  82,  6,  6 ; 
and  X.  72,  6. 

┬Ф  I  have  observed  another  hymn  in  the  E.  V.,  the  168th  of  the  tenth  Mandala, 
of  which  the  fourth  verse  ends  with  words  similar  to  those  which  conclude  the  first 
nine  verses  of  the  121st,  except  that  instead  of  kasmai  the  168th  hymn  has  tasmai. 

I  quote  this  verse  with  the  last  words  of  the  3rd leva  avij  jatah  hitah 

abaihiwa  \  4.  atma  devanam  bhmxmasya  garbho  yathavaiam  charati  devah  eahah  \ 
ghoshah  id  asya  irimire  na  rupam  tasmai  Vataya  havisha  vidhema  \  "  Where  was 
he  produced  ?  whence  hag  he  sprung  f  4.  Soul  of  the  gods,  and  source  of  the  world, 
this  deity  marches  at  his  will.  His  sounds  are  heard  but  [we  see]  not  his  form : 
to  this  Vata  (wind)  let  us  offer  our  oblations."  Compare  St.  John  iii.  8.  "  The  wind 
bloweth  where  it  listeth,  and  thou  hearest  the  sound  thereof,  but  canst  not  tell 
whence  it  cometh,  and  whither  it  goeth." 


EIGVEDA  X.  121 ;  HIEANTAGAEBHA.  17 

shadow  is  immortality,  whose  shadow  is  death Рђћ to  what  god  shall 
we  offer  our  oblation?  3.  Who  by  his  might  became  the  sole  king 
of  the  breathing  and  winking  world,  who  is  the  lord  of  this  two-footed 
and  four-footed  [creation], Рђћ ^to  what  god,  etc.  ?  4.  Whose  greatness 
these  snowy  mountains,  and  the  sea  with  the  Kasa  [river],  declare, Рђћ of 
whom  these  regions,  of  whom  they  are  the  arms, Рђћ to  what  god,  etc. 
5.  By  whom  the  sky  is  fiery,  and  the  earth  fixed,  by  whom  the 
firmament  and  the  heaven  were  established,  who  in  the  atmosphere 
is  the  measurer  of  the  aerial  space; Рђћ to  what  god,  etc.  ?  6.  To  whom 
two  contending  armies,  sustained  by  his  succour,  looked  up,  trembling 
in  mind ;  over  whom  the  risen  sun  shines, Рђћ to  what  god,  etc.  ?  7. 
When  the  great  waters  pervaded  the  universe,  containing  an  embryo,  and 
generating  fire,  thence  arose  the  one  spirit  (aau)  of  the  gods, Рђћ to  what 
god,  etc.  ?  8.  He  who  through  his  greatness  beheld  the  waters  which 
contained  power,  and  generated  sacrifice,  who  was  the  one  god  above 
the  gods, Рђћ to  what  god,  etc.  ?  9.  May  he  not  injure  us,  he  who 
is  the  generator  of  the  earth,  who,  ruling  by  fixed  ordinances,  pro- 
duced the  heavens,  who  produced  the  great  and  brilliant  waters ! Рђћ to 
what  god,  etc.?  10.  Frajapati,  no  other  than  thou  is  lord  over  all 
these  created  things :  may  we  obtain  that,  through  desire  of  which  we 
have  invoked  thee ;  may  we  become  masters  of  riches." 

On  Frajapati,  see  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  352  f. ;  390  ff. 

The  whole  of  this  hymn  is  to  be  found  repeated  in  the  Vajasaneyi 
Sanhita,  the  first  eight  verses  in  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  iv.  1,  8,  3  ff., 
and  most  of  the  verses  recur  in  the  Atharva-veda.  In  making  my 
translation,  I  have  had  the  assistance  of  Mahidhara's  Commentary 
on  the  first-named  Veda,  as  well  as  of  the  version  given  by  Frofessor 
Miiller  in  his  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  p.  669  f.  In  his  annotation 
on  Vaj.  S.  27,  5,=verse  7,  the  coijimentator  Mahldhara  refers  to  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  1,  6,  1 :  J.^o  ha  vai  idam  agre  salilam  evasa  | 
"  This  [universe]  was  in  the  beginning  waters,  only  water;"  *'  and  ex- 
plains the  words  garlham  dadhanB^,  "  containing  a  germ,"  thus :  tatha 
garbha0i,  Hiranyagarhhalahsham'^  dadhanah  dharaycmtyah  atah  eva  agnim 
janayantlh  agm-mpam  Siranyagarlhamjanayantyah  utpadayishyantyah  \ 
"  And  also  containing  an  embryo  {garhha)  distinguished  as  the  golden 

*'  Compare  R.  V.  vi.  60,  7,  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  345 ;  and 
the  quotations  from  the  S'atapatha  BrShmana  and  other  works  in  the  next  section. 


18  EXTEACTS  FROM  THE  ATHARVA 

embryo  Hiranyagmrlha) ;  and  consequently  generating,  being  about  to 
produce,  fire, Рђћ Hiranyagarbha  in  the  form  of  fire."  The  Atharva-veda 
reads  this  seventh  verse  somewhat  difierently,  thus  (A.  V.  4,  2,  6)  :  Apo 
agre  vUvam  dvan  ga/rhhafh  dadhanah  amritah  ritajnah  \  yasu  devukv  adhi 
devah  ant  hasmai  ityadi  \  "  In  the  beginning,  the  waters,  immortal,  and 
versed  in  the  sacred  ceremonies,  protected  (covered  ?)  the  universe, 
containing  an  embryo ;  over  these  divine  [waters]  was  the  god,"  etc. 
The  verse  which  comes  next,  the  seventh  in  the  A.  V.,  is  the  first 
in  the  E.  V.  The  eighth  in  the  A.  V.,  which  has  none  answering 
to  it  in  the  E.  V.,  is  as  foUows :  Apo  vatsam  janayantir  ga/rbham  agre 
samairayan  \  tasyota  jdyamanasya  ulbah  asid  Tmanyayah  \  hismai  devaya 
ityadi Рђћ "  In  the  beginning  the  -waters,  producing  a  chUd,  brought 
forth  an  embryo,  which,  as  it  was  coming  into  life,  was  enveloped  in 
a  golden  covering." 

The  idea  of  the  production  of  the  divine  principle  by  which  the 
gods  were  animated  {asu)  from  the  embryo  generated  in  the  waters, 
contained  in  the  seventh  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  (E.  V.  x.  121, 
7)  is  replaced,  as  we  shall  find,  in  the  Srahmanas  and  the  later 
mythology  by  that  of  the  generation  of  Prajapati,  or  Brahma,  from 
the  egg  formed  in  the  waters.  In  the  verse  attached  to  the  hymn  as 
the  10th,  the  deity  celebrated  in  the  hymn  is  addressed  by  the  appella- 
tion of  Prajapati,  which  became  a  title  of  Brahma.  The  last  verse 
which  I  have  quoted  from  the  A.  V.  (iv.  2,  8)  assigns  a  "golden 
covering"  to  the  embryo  produced  by  the  waters. 

In  another  part  of  the  same  Yeda  (A.  V.  x.  7,  28)  the  following 
verse  occurs:  Hiranyagarbham  paramam  anatyudyam  janah  viduh  \ 
Skamihas  tadagre  prdsinchad  hiranyam  lake  antard  |  "Men  know 
Hiranyagarbha,  the  supreme,  the  ineffable:  before  him  Skambha 
[the  Supporter]  shed  forth  gold  in  the  midst  of  the  world." 

I  shall  make  some  additional  quotations  from  the  hymn  of  the  A.  V. 
in  which  the  last  cited  verse  occurs,  and  the  next  following.  [The 
whole  of  the  hymn  A.  V.  x.  7,  and  a  portion  of  A.  V.  x.  8,  are  quoted 
in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  378  ff.,  which  can  be  referred  to.] 

ExTEACIS   FKOM   THE   AtHAEVA-VEDA,    X.    7,    AND   X.    8. 

A.  V.  X.  7,  7. Рђћ Yasmin  dabdhvd  Prajdpatir  lokdn  sarvdn  adhdrayat  \ 
Skambha^  tarn  Iruhi  katamah  svid  eva  eah  |  8.   Yaf  paramam  avamam 


VEDA  X.  7  AND  8;  SKAMBHA.  19 

yachcha  madhyamam  Prajdpatih  sasrije  vUva-rupam  \  Myatd  Shamhha^ 
praviveia  tatra  yan  na  prdvUat  My  at  tad  hahhuva  \  9.  Kiyata  Slcamlhah 
praviveia  bhutam  Tciyad  Ihavishyad  amdiaye  'sya  |  ekaih  yad  angam  akH- 
not  sahasradhd  Myatd  Skambhaih  pravwesa  tatra  |  ....  17,  Ye  purushe 
brahma  vidus  te  viduh  parameshfkinam  \  yo  veda  parameshthinam  ya&  cha 
veda  Praj'dpatim  \  Jyeshfham  ye  hrdhmamm  vidus  te  Skambham  anu- 
samviduh  [  .  .  .  .  24.  Yatra  devdh  brahmavido  brahma  jyeshtham  lipdsaU  \ 
yo  vai  tan  vidydt  pratyahJiam  sa  Irahmd  vedita  sydt  |  .  .  .  .  32.  Yasya 
bhumih  pramd  mitarihsham  utodaram  \  dimm  yai  ehakre  murdhdnaM 
tasmai j'yeshthdya  Brahmane  namah  |  .  .  .  .  35.  Skambho  dddhdra  dydvd- 
pritMvi  uhhe  ime  Skambho  dddhdrorv  antariksham  \  Skambho  dddhdra 
pradisah  shad  urvl{h'i)  Skambhah  idaih,  mivwm  Vhuvanam  dviveia  \ 
36.  Yah  iramdt  tapaso  jdto  lokdn  sarvdn  samdnaie  |  somam  ya^  ehakre 
Tcevalam  tasmai  jye&hthdya  bvahmane  namah  \  ....  41.  Yo  vetasam^ 
hiranyayam  iishthantam  sailile  veda  \  sa  vai  guhyah  Priy'dpatih  \ 

A.  V.  X.  8,  2. Рђћ Skambheneme  vishtabhite  dyaui  cha  bhumis  eha  tish- 
thatah  \  Skambha^  idam  sarvam  dtmanvad  yat  pr&nad  nimishaohcha  yai  | 
.  .  .  .  11.  Yad  yati  patati  yachcha  tishfhatt  prdnad  aprdnan  nimishach 
eha  yad  bhuvat  \  tad  dddhdra  prithivim  visvarupam  tat  sambhuya  bhavaty 

ekam  eva  \ 44.  Akdmo  dhlro  amritah  svayambhuh  rasena  tripto 

na  kutahhanonah  \  ta>m  eva  vidvdn  na  Mhhdya  mrityor  dtmdnam  dMram,    Рђъ       , 
ajaram  yuvdnam  \  \i/avH'i 

A.  V.  X.  7,  7. Рђћ "  Tell  -wlio  that  Stambha  "(supporter)  is,-  on  whom 
Prajapati  has  supported,  and  established  all  the  "worlfe.  8.  How  far 
did  Skambha  penetrate  into  that  highest,  lowest  and  middle  universe, 
comprehending  all  forms,  which  Prajapati  created  ?  and  how  much 
of  it  was  there  which  he  did  not  penetrate  ?  9.  How  far  did  Skambha 
penetrate  into  the  past  ?  and  how  much  of  the  future  is  contained  in  his 
receptacle?  how  far  did  Skambha  penetrate  into  that  one   member 

which  he  separated  into  a  thousand  parts?' 17.  Those  men 

who  know  Brahma  ('the  divine  essence)  in  the  Male  (Purmha),  know 
him  who  occupies  the  highest  place  (Parameshthin)  :  he  who  knows 
Parameshtbin,  and  who  knows  Prajapati, Рђћ they  who  know  the  highest 

*9  I  know  not  whether  this  word  has  here  its  ordinary  meaning,  or  the  same  sense 
which  is  assigned  to  the  word  vaitma  in  R.  V.  x.  95,  4,  6  ;.  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
xi.  5,  1,  1 ;  and  Nir.  iii.  21.  See  also  R.V.  iv.  58,  5 ;  and  S'atap.  Br.  vii.  5,  2,  11  i 
and  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  384,  note. 


20  S'ATAPATHA  BEAHMANA  vi.  1,  1,  1 ;  OEIGINAL 

Brahmana  (divine  mystery),  they  know  Skambha 24.  In  the 

place  where  the  gods,  the  knowers  of  sacred  science  (brahma)  reverence 
the  highest  Brahma, Рђћ that  priest  {hrahmd)  who  knows  them  clearly, 
will  be  a  knower.  .....  32.  Keverence  to  that  highest  Brahma,  of 

whom  the  earth  is  the  measure,  the  atmosphere  the  beUy,  who  made 

the  sky  his  head 35.  Skamba  established  both  these  [worlds] 

the  earth  and  sky,  Skambha  established  the  wide  atmosphere,  Skambha 
established  the  six  wide  regions,  Skambha  pervaded  this  entire  uni- 
verse. 36.  Reverence  to  that  highest  Brahma,  who,  sprung  from 
toil  and  from  austere  fervour,  has  pervaded  all  the  worlds,  who  made 

soma  for  himself  alone 41.  He  who  knows  the  golden  reed 

standing  in  the  water,  is  the  mysterious  Prajapati." 

A.  v.  X.  8,  2. Рђћ "These  two  [worlds]  the  earth  and  sky,  stand, 
supported  by  Skambha.     Skambha  is  all  this  which  has  soul,  which 

breathes,  which  winks 11.  Whatever  moves,  flies,  or  stands, 

whatever  exists  breathing,  or  not  breathing,  or  winking, Рђћ that  omni- 

form  [entity]  sustains  the  earth ;  that,  combined,  is  one  only 

44.  Knowing  that  Soul,  calm,  undecaying,  young,  who  is  passionless, 
tranquil,  self-existent,  immortal,  satisfied  with  the  essence,  wanting  in 
nothing, Рђћ a  man  is  not  afraid  of  death." 

I  quote  these  passages  partly  because  they  contain  frequent  refer- 
ences to  Prajapati,. a  name  which  occurs  but  sparingly  in  the  Rig-veda; 
and  partly  because  they  celebrate  a  new  god  called  Skambha,  the 
"  Supporter,"  or  "  Propper,"  whose  personification  may  have  been 
suggested  by  the  function  of  "supporting"  the  earth  and  heavens, 
which,  as  we  shall  see  in  the  next  chapter,  is  frequently  ascribed  to 
Indra,  Varuna,  Yishnu,  and  Savitri. 

The  verse  last  quoted  (x.  8,  44)  seems  to  contain  the  idea  of  the 
supreme  Soul  as  the  object  of  knowledge. 

On  the  subject  of  this  and  the  next  sections  compare  the  twenty- 
first  section  of  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  350  ff. 

Sect.  II. Рђћ Original  non-entity  ;  Prajapati ;  primeval  waters  ;  mundane 
ecj^,  etc.,  according  to  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  Manu,  the  JRdmd- 
yana,  Vishnu  Purana,  etc. 

The  S'atapatha  Brahmana  contains  the  following  legends  about  the 
creation. 
I.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  1  ff.  (pp.  499  of  Weber's  ed.) Рђћ 


NON-EXISTENCE;  SEVEN  MALES;  PEAJAPATI,  ETC.  21 

Asad  vai  idam  ogre  ant  \  tad  ahu^ '  kirn  tad  asad  dsid'  iti  \  riahayo  vava 
te  'agre  asad  asit'  tad  dhuh  |  'kete  rishaya^'  iti  \  pranalj.  vai  rishayas  te 
yat  pwd  'smdt  sarvasmdd  idam  ichhanta^  iramem  tapasd  'rishams  tasr 
mad  rishayah  |  2.  So  yo  ''yam,  madhye  prdnah  esha  evendra^  \  tan  eaha 
prdndn  madhyatah  indriyenaindha  \  yad  aindha  tasmdd  Indhah  \  Indho 
ha  vai  tam  Indrah  ity  dchakshate  parohham  |  paroksha-Mmdh  hi  devds 
te  iddhdh  sapta  ndna  purmhdn  asrijanta  \  3.  Te  'hravan  "na  vai 
ittham  santah  iakshyamah  prtyanayitum  imdn  sapta  purushan  ekam, 
purusham  karavama"  iti  te  etdn  sapta  purushan  ekam  purusham 
akurvan  \  yad  urddhvam  ndbhes  tau  dvau  samaubjan  \  yad  avan  ndhhes 
tau  dva/u,  \  pakshah  purushah  \   paksha^  purusha^  |   pratishtha  eka^ 

dsit  I 5.    Sa  eva  purushah  Praj'dpatir  ahhavat  sa   yah   sa 

pwrushah,  Prajdpatir  alhavad  ayam  em  sa  yo  'yam  AgnU^  chiyate  | 
6.  Sa  vai  sapta-purusho  hhavati  \  sapta-purusho  hy  ayam  purusho 
yach  chalvdrah  dtmd  trayah  paksha-puchhdni  \  ehatvdro  hi  tasya 
purushasya  atmd.  trayah  paksha-puchhdni^^  \  atha  yad  ekena  puru- 
shena  dtmanam  va/rdhayati  tena  vlryena  ayam  dtmd  paksha-puchhdni 

udyaohhati   \ 8.   So   'yam  purushah  Prajdpatir  akdmayata 

'  hhuydn  sydm  prajdyeya'  iti  |  so  'krdmyat  sa  tapo  'tapyata  \  sa 
irdntas  tepdno  brahma  eva  prathamam  asrijata  traylm  eva  vidydm  \ 
sa  eva  asmai  pratishtha  'bhavat  tasmdd  dhur  '  brahma  asya  sarvasya 
pratishtha '  iti  \  tasmdd  anuehya  pratitishthati  pratishtha  hy  eskd 
yad  brahma  \  tasydm  pratishthdydm  pratishthito  'tapyata  \  9.  So 
'po  'srijata  vdchah  eva  lokdd  vdg  evdsya  sa  'srijyata  sd  idam  sarvam 
dpnod  yad  idam  kinoha  \  yad  dpnot  tasmdd  dpaV''  \  yad  avrinot  tasmdd 
vdh  I  \Q.  So  'kdmayata  '  dbhgo  'dbhyo  'dhiprajdyeya'  iti  so  'nay a  trayya 
vidyayd  saha  apah  prdviiat  tatah  dndam  sawMoartlata  tad  abhyamrisad 
'  astv'  ity  '  astu  bhuyo  'stv'  ity  eva  tadabravlt  \  tato  brahma  eva  pra- 
thamam asrijyata  trayy  eva  vidya  \  tasmdd  ahv/r  '  brahma  asya  sarvasya 
prathamajam'  ity  \  api  hi  tasmdt  purwshdd  brahma  eva  purvam  asrijyata 
tad  asya  tad  mukham  eva  asrijyata  \  tasmdd  anuchdnam  dhur  '  Agni- 
kalpa^ '  iti  |  mukham  hy  etad  Agner  yad  brahma  \  " 

=┬╗  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana  vi.  1,  2,  13,  and  21  (pp.  502-3) ;  is.  2,  2,  2 
(p.  713).    According  to  vi.  2,  1,  1 ;  and  xi.  1,  6,  14,  Agui  is  the  son  of  Piajapati. 

5'  Comp.  vi.  2,  2,  4,  and  9. 

'*  Compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana  ii.  1,  1,  3;  and  vi.  1,  3,  Iff. 

'^  Compare  Taittiriya  Brahmana  ii.  2,  9,  1  ff.  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  27  ff. 


22     ORIGINAL  NON-ENTITT;  SEVEN  MALES;  PEAJAPATI,  ETC. 

"In  the  beginning  this  [universe]  was  indeed  non-existent.  But 
men  say,  'what  was  that  non-existent?'  The  rishis  say  that  in  the 
beginning  there  was  non-existence.  Who  are  these  rishis  ?  The  nshis 
are  breaths.  Inasmuch  as  before  all  this  [universe],  they,  desiring 
this  [universe],  were  worn  out  {mrisMn)  with  toil  and  austerity, 
therefore  they  are  called  RisMa.  2.  This  breath  which  is  in  the  midst 
is  Indra.  He  by  his  might  kindled  these  breaths  in  the  midst :  inas- 
much as  he  kindled  them,  he  is  the  kindler  {Indha).  They  call  Indha 
Indra  esoterically :  for  the  gods  love  that  which  is  esoteric.  They  [the 
gods]  being  kindled,  created  seven  separate  males  {purmlm).  3.  They 
said,  '  being  thus,  we  shall  not  be  able  to  generate;  so  let  us  make  these 
seven  males  one  male.'  So  speaking,  they  made  these  seven  males  one 
male  {purusha).  Into  the  part  above  the  navel,  they  compressed  two  of 
them,  and  two  others  into  the  part  below  the  navel;  [one]  male 
[formed  one]  side ;  [another]  male  [another]  sidei  and  one  formed  the 

base 5,  This  [one]  male  became  Frajapati.     The  male  who 

became  Prajapati  is  the  same  as  this  Agni  who  is  kindled  on  the 
altar.  6.  He  verily  is  composed  of  seven  males  {piM-usha)'.  for  this 
male  is  composed  of  seven  males,  since  [four]  make  the  soul,  and  three 
the  sides  and  extremity  {lit.,  tail).  For  the  soul  of  this  male  [makes] 
four,  and  the  sides  and  extremity  three.  Now  inasmuch  as  he  makes 
the  soul  [which  is  equal  to  four]  superior  by  one  male,  the  soul,  in 
consequence  of  this  [excess  of]  force,  controls  the  sides  and  extremity 
[which  are  only  equal  to  three] S.  This  male  {_piirusha)  Pra- 
japati desired,  '  may  I  be  multiplied,  may  I  be  developed.'  He  toiled, 
he  performed  austerity.  Having  toiled  and  performed  austerity,  he 
first  created  the  Veda  {hrahma),  the  triple  science.  It  became  to  him 
a  foundation;  hence  men  say,  '  the  Veda  {hrahma)  is  tiie  foundation  of 
all  this.'  Wherefore  having  studied  [the  Veda]  a  man  has  a  founda- 
tion, for  this  is  his  foundation,  namely  the 'Veda.  Besting  on  this 
foundation,  he  performed  austerity.  9.  He  created  the  waters  from 
the  world  [in  the  form  of]  speech.*'     Speech  belonged  to  him.     It  was 


"  This  is  illustrated  Ijy  a  passage  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vii.  5,  2, 21  (p.  617), 
which  says  :  vag  vai  ajo  vSeho  vaiprajafy  Visvakarma  jajana  \  "  Speech  is  the  moTer 
[or,  the  unborn].  It  was  from  speech  that  VisTakarman  produced  creatures."  And 
in  the  Brihad  Arajiyaka  (p.  290  of  Bibl.  Ind.)  it  is  said  |  trayo  lokah  ete  eva  |  vag 
evayam  loko  memo  'ntarikaha-hha^  prano  'aau  lokah  |  "  It  is  they  which  are  the  three 


PRAJAPATI  COMPOSED  OP  SEVEN  MALES.  23 

created.  It  pervaded  all  this.  Because  it  pervadad  {apnot)  all  this 
which  exists,  it  (speech)  was  called  waters  {apah);  and  because  it 
covered  (avrinot),  it  was  called  vd^  (another  name  of  water).  10.  He 
desired,  'May  I  be  reproduced  from  these  waters.'  So  saying,  with 
this  triple  science  he  entered"'  the  waters.  Thence  an  egg  arose. 
He  handled  it.  He  said  to  it,  'let  it  become,'  'let  it  become,'  'let 
it  be  developed.'  From  it  the  Veda  was  first  created,"  the  triple 
science.  Hence  men  say,  '  the  Veda  is  the  first-bom  of  this  whole 
[creation].  Further,  [as]  the  Veda  was  first  created  from  that  Male, 
therefore  it  was  created  his  mouth.  Hence  they  say  of  a  learned  man 
that  he  is  like  Agni ;  for  the  Veda  is  Agni's  mouth." 

The  same  idea  about  Prajapati  being  composed  of  seven  males,  occurs 
again  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  2,  2, 1,  and  seems  to  be  connected 
with  the  notion  of  Agni  having  the  size  of  seven  males.  (See  the 
commentary  on  S'atap.  Br.  x.  2,  2,  1). Рђћ  Tan  vai  tan  aapta  purushan 
ekam  pwrusham  ahmrvan  sa  Prajdpatir  abhavat  \  sa  prcyah  asryata  \  sa 
prajah  srishtvd  urddhvah  udakrdmat  \  sa  etam  loham  agaehhad  yatra 
esha  etat  tapati  \  no  ha  ta/rhy  anyalj,  etasmdd  atra  yajniyalj,  dsa  tarn 
devdh  yajnenaiea  yashfum  adhriywnta  |  tasmad  etad  rishind  'bhyanuktam 
'yajnena  yajnam  ayajanta  devdh  ityadi  |  "These  seven  males  whom  they 
made  one  male  {purmha)  became  Prajapati.  He  created  offspring. 
Having  created  offspring,  he  mounted  upwards ;  he  went  to  this  world 
where  this  scorches  this.  There  was  then  no  other  being  fit  for 
sacrifice:  the  gods  began  to  offer  him  with  sacrifice.  Hence  it  has 
been  said  by  the  rishi  (R.  V.  x.  90,.  16),  'the  gods  offered  the  sacrifice 
with  sacrifice.'"  Part  of  the  passage,  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  6 
is  repeated  in  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  2,  2,  5." 

II.  In  the  preceding  story,  the  gods  are  represented  as  the  creators 


worlds.  Speech  is  this  world,  mind  is  the  atmospheric  world,  and  hreath  is  that 
world  (the  sky)."  Begarding  the  action  of  Vach  in  the  creation,  compare  Weber's 
Ind.  Stud.  iz.  477  f.,  and  the  passages  quoted  from  him  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  391  f. 

"  Compare  A.Y.  x.  2,  7  |  sa  a  varwarti  bkuvcmeshv  antar  apo  vasanah  iajf  u  taeh 
ehiketa  |  "  He  (Furusha)  mores  actively  in  the  worlds,  clothed  with  the  waters : 
who  has  known  this  ?" 

5┬Ф  It  had,  however,  been  created  before.    See  a  few  lines  above. 

"  Compare  S'atap.  Br.  x.  2,  3,  18. Рђћ Saptavidho  vai  agre  Frajapatir  asryt/tUa. 
These  words  are  repeated  iu  x.  2,  4,  8. 


24  S'ATAPATHA  BEAHMANA  xi.  1,  6,  1 ;  PRIMEVAL 

of  Prajapati,  who  in  his  turn  is  stated  to  have  generated  the  waters, 
which  he  entered,  and  from  which  sprang  the  mundane  egg.  In  the 
following  story,  the  order  of  production  is  different.  The  waters 
generate  the  egg,  and  the  egg  brings  forth  Prajapati,  who  creates  the 
worlds  and  the  gods. 

Satapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  1,  6,  1  ff. Рђћ Apo  ha  vai  idam  agre  saUlam 
evasa^^  \  tah  akamayanta  'katham  nu  prajayemaM'  Hi  tal}  a^rdmyams 
tds  tapo  'tapyanta  \  tdsu  tapas  tapyamdndsu  Mranmayam  dndam  samha- 
hhuva  I  ajdto  ha  tarhi  samvatsarahi  dsa  \  tad  idam  hiranmayam  dndaM 
ydvat  samvatsarasya  veld  tavat  paryaplmata  \  2.  Tatah  samvatsare 
purushah  samabhai>at  sa  Prdjdpatih  \  tasmdd  u  samvatsa/re  eva  strl  vd 
gaur  vd  vadald  vd  vijdyaie  samvatsa/re  hi  Prajdpatir  ajdyata  |  sa  idam 
hiranmayan  dndam  vyarujat  \  na  aha  tarhi  kaehana  pratishthd  dsa  |  tad 
enam  idam  eva  hiranmayam  dndarh  ydvat  samvatsarasya  veld  dslt  tdvad 
hihhrat  pwryaplavata"'  \  S.  Sa  samvatsare  vyajihlrshat  \  sa  'hhur'  iti 
vydharat  sd  iyam  pritMvy  ahhavad^  'hhuvah'  iti  tad  idam  antariksham 
abhavat  '  svar '  iti  sd  asau  dyaur  ahhavat  tasmdd  u  samvatsare  eva  kumdro 
vyajihlrshati  samvatsare  hi  Prajdpatir  vydharat  \  .  .  .  6.  Sa  sahas- 
rdyur  jajne  \  sa  yathd  nadyai  pdram  pardpasyed  evam  svasydyushah 
pdram  pardchakhyau  \   7.  So  'rohan  irdmyams  chachara  prajdkdmah  \ 

''  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  7,  1,  17. Рђћ Tasya  apah  eva  pratishtha  \  opsu  hi  ime 
loTcah  pratishthitah  \  "Waters  are  its  support :  for  these  worlds  are  tased  upon  the 
waters."  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  8,  6,  1  (=Brihad  AranyataUpanishad,  p.  974). 
Рђћ Apah  evedam  ogre  aauh  |  tah  apah  satyam  asrijanta  satyam  Brahma  Brahma 
Frajapatim  Frajapatir  devan  |  "  In  the  beginning  waters  alone  formed  this  universe. 
These  waters  created  Truth,  Truth  created  Brahma,  Brahma  created  Prajapati,  and 
Prajapati  the  gods."  Compare  Taitt.  Sanh.  vii.  1,  5, 1  ff. ;  Taitt.  Br.  i.  1, 3,  6  ff. ;  and 
Taitt.  Arany.  i.  23,  Iff.  quoted  in  pp.  31  and  5'2f.  of  vol.  i.  this  work.  To  the  same 
effect  is  Taitt.  Sanh.  v.  7, 5, 3,  Apo  vai  idam  agre  salilam  asit.  The  A.  V.  xii.  1,  8,  also 
says  :  ya  'rnave  'dhi  salilam  agre  asid  yam  mayaihir  anvacharan  manishinah  \  "  That 
earth  which  formerly  was  water  on  the  ocean,  which  the  sages  followed  after  by  their 
divine  powers,"  etc.  E.  V.  x.  109,  1,  speaks  of  the  "divine  first-born  waters"  (^apo 
devlh  prathamajah).  The  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  2,  2,  2,  represents  the  wind  as  the  ocean, 
which  was  the  source  from  which  the  gods  and  all  creatures  issued  (ayam  vai  samudro 
yo  'yam  pavate  \  etasmad  vai  samitdrat  aarve  devah  sarvani  bhutani  samuddravanti  \ 

''  Tasya  Frajapater  aspadam  kimapi  na  babhuva  sa  cha  niradharatvat  sthatum 
asaknmiann  idam  eva  bhinnam  hiranmayandam punah  samvatsara-paryaniam  bibhrad 
dharayan  taav  evapsu  paryasravat  \  "There  was  no  resting  place  for  Prajapati;  and 
he,  being  unable  to  stand,  from  the  want  of  any  support,  occupying  this  divided 
golden  egg  for  a  year,  floated  about  on  these  waters,"     Commentary. 

┬Ф"  Compare  vol.  iii.  of  this  work,  2nd  ed.  pp.  101,  104,  and  S'atapatha  Brahmana 
ii.  1,  4,  11,  p.  141. 


WATERS;  MUIIDANE  EGG;  PRAJAPATI;  GODS.  25 

sa  dinfani/  eva  prajdtim  adhatta  sa  aayenaiva  devdfi  asrijata  \  te  devdh 
divam  dbhipadya  asrijyanta  tad  devdndm  devatvam  yad  divam  abhipadya 
asrijyanfa  |  tasmai  sasrijdndya  diva  iva  dsa''^  |  tad  veva  devdndm  devatvam 
yad  asmai  sasrijdndya  divd  iva  dsa  \  8.  AtJia  yo  'yam  avdn  prams  tena 
asurdn  asrijata  I  te  imam  eva  prithivlm  abhipadya  asrijyanta  \  tasmai 
sasrijdndya  tamah  iva  dsa  \  9.  So  'vet  " pdpmdnaih  vat  asriksM  yasmai 
me  sasrijdndya  tamah  iva  ahhud"  iti  |  tdms  tatalj,  evapdpmand  'vidhyat  | 
te  tatah  eva  pardbhavan  |  ....  14.  Tdh  vai  etah  Prajdpater  adhi 
devatdh  asrijyanta  Agnir  Indrah^  Somah  Parameshfht  prdjdpatyah  \ 
....  18.  Sa  Projdpatir  Indram  putram  abramid  ityddi  \ 

"In  the  beginning  this  universe  was  -waters,  nothing  but  water. 
The  Waters  desired,  '  how  can  we  be  reproduced  ? '  So  saying,  they 
toiled,  they  performed  austerity.  While  they  were  performing  austerity, 
a  golden  egg  came  into  existence.  Being  produced,  it  then  became 
a  year.  Wherefore  this  golden  egg  floated  about  for  the  period  of  a 
year.  2.  From  it  in  a  year  a  male  {^purusha)  came  into  existence,  who 
was  Prajapati.  Hence  it  is  that  a  woman,  or  a  cow,  or  a  mare,  brings 
forth  in  the  space  of  a  year,  for  in  a  year  Prajapati  was  born.  He 
divided  this  golden  egg.  There  was  then  no  resting-place  for  him. 
He  therefore  floated  about  for  the  space  of  a  year,  occupying  this 
golden  egg.  3.  In  a  year  he  desired  to  speak.  He  uttered  'bhur,' 
which  became  this  earth ;  '  bhuvah,'  which  became  this  firmament ;  and 
'  svar,'  which  became  that  sky.     Hence  a  child  desires  to  speak  in  a 

year,  because  Prajapati  spoke  iu  a  year 6.  He  was  born  with 

a  life  of  a  thousand  years.  He  perceived  the  further  end  of  his  life, 
as  [one]  may  perceive  the  opposite  bank  of  a  river.  7.  Desiriag 
offspring,  he  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling.  He  conceived  progeny 
in  himself:  with  his  mouth  he  created  the  gods.  These  gods  were 
created  on  reaching  heaven.  This  is  the  godhead  of  the  gods  (devdh) 
that  they  were  created  on  reaching  heaven  {divam).  To  him  while 
he  was  continuing  to  create,  it  became,  as  it  were,  daylight  {divd). 
This  is  the  godhead  of  the  gods,  that  to  him  as  he  was  continuing  to 


┬Ф'  Divd  iva  asa  |  dlcadah  iva  habhuva  \  Comm.  Comp.  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  2,  9, 9,  translated 
in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  30. 

"  In  R.  V.  X.  134,  1  ff.  Indra  is  said  to  be  the  son  of  a  mother  whose  name  is  not 
mentioned.  See,  however,  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  where  this  subject '  is 
referred  to. 


26  CHHANDOGTA  UPANISHAD ;  MUNDANE  EGG. 

create,  it  became,  as  it  were,  daylight.  8.  Then  from  this  lower  breath 
he  created  the  Asuras.  They  were  created  when  they  reached  this 
world.  To  him,  when  creating,  darkness,  as  it  were,  appeared.  9.  He 
knew:  'I  have  created  evil,  since  as  I  was  creating,  darkness,  as  it 
were,  appeared.'  He  then  pierced  them  with  evil ;  and  they  in  conse- 
quence were  overcome  ....  14.  These  [following]  gods  were  created 
from  Frajapati, Рђћ Agni,  Indra,  Soma,  and  Parameshthin,  son  of  Praja- 

pati 18.  Prajapati  said  to  his  son  Indra,"  etc. 

The  mundane  egg  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Chhandogya  TJpanishad 
(p.  228  ff.) :  Adityo  Brahma  ity  Sdeiah  |  tasyopawydkhyanam  |  asad 
eva  idam  agre  dslt  \  tat  sad  dsit  \  tat  lamabhavat  \  tad  dndaih  niravarttata  \ 
tat  mmvatsarasya  mdtram  aiayata  \  tad  nirahhidyata  \  te  dnda-hapdle 
rqjatam  eha  suvarnam  cha  abhavatdm  \  tad  yad  rajatam  ┬Фa  iyam  prithivl 
yat  smwrnam  sd  dyaw  yaj  jardyu^  te  parvatdh  yad  ulva&^  sa  megho 
mharo^  yd^  dhamanayas  Рёб  tdl^  nadyo  yad  vasteyam"  udaham  sa  samudrah  \ 
atha  yat  tad  ajayata  so  'sdv  Adityas  tarn  jdyamdnaih  ghoshdh  ululavo  "^ 
'nudatishthan  [_'nudatishthan?2  sarvdni  eha  Ihutdni  sarve  eha  kdmds 
tasmdt  tasyodayam  prati  pratydyanam'^  prati  ghoshdh  ululavo  'nuti- 
shthanti  sarvdni  cha  bhiltdni  sarve  ehaiva  kdmdh  \  which  is  thus 
translated  by  Babu  Eajendralal  Mittra :  "  The  sun  is  described  as 
Brahma ; Рђћ its  description.  VerUy  at  first  this  was  non-existent ;  that 
non-existence  became  existent ;  it  developed, Рђћ it  became  an  egg :  it 
remained  [quiet]  for  a  period  of  one  year ;  it  burst  into  two ;  thence 
were  formed  two  halves  of  gold  and  silver.  Thereof  the  argentine  half 
is  the  earth,  and  the  golden  half  the  heaven.  The  inner  thick  mem- 
brane [of  the  egg]  became  mountains,  and  the  thin  one  cloudy  fog ; 
the  blood-vessels  became  rivers,  and  the  fluid  became  the  ocean ;  and 
lastly,  what  was  born  therefrom  is  the  sun,  Aditya.  On  its  birth 
arose  loud  shouts  [or  shouts  of  '  ulu-ulu '],  as  well  as  all  living  beings, 
and  their  desires.    Hence  on  the  rising,  and  re-rising  [day  after  day] 


^  Garhha-veihfanam  sthulam  |  Oomm. 

┬░*  Sulcslimam  garbha-parioeahianam  \  Comm. 

s'  Avaayaya^  {froat)  |  Comm, 

^  S'irSlk  I  Comm. 

8'  Vaatau  bhavam  vSateyam  \  Comm.    "  Abdominal,"  Wilson. 

6S  l^ruravo  viatirna-raval^  udatish(hann  utthitavantalf  | 

┬░┬░  Tratyaata-gamanam  .  .  .  athava  ptinah  pimali  pratyagamcmam 


PEAJAPAti  IN  THE  FORM  OF  A  TORTOISE,  ETC.  27 

of  the  sun,  arise  shouts  of  '  ulu-ulu,'  as  well  as  all  living  beings  and 
their  desires."     (Bibl.  Ind.  No.  78,  p.  65.) 

In  the  next  passage,  Frajapati  is  said  to  have  taken  the  form  of 
a  tortoise : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vii.  4,  3,  5. Рђћ 8a  yat  Mrmo  ndma  etad  vat 
rupam  kritvd  Prajapatih  prqjdh  asryata  \  yad  asryata  aharot  tad  yad 
aharot  tasmdi  hurmalp  \  Kaiyapo  vai  Tcurmas  tasmad  dhuh  '  sarvaA  pra/dh 
Kdkyapyah  iti  |  sa  yah,  aa  Mrmo  'sau  sa  Adityah  \  "  Having  assumed  the 
form  of  a  tortoise,  Frajapati  created  offspring.  That  Рќаwhich  he  created, 
he  made  {akarot) ;  hence  the  vrord  kurma.  Ka^yapa  means  tortoise ; 
hence  men  say,  'all  creatures  are  descendants  of  Ka^yapa.""  This 
tortoise  is  the  same  as  Aditya." 

In  the  later  mythology  it  is  Tishnu  who  assumes  the  form  of  a 
tortoise : 

Thus  in  the  chapter  of  the  Bhagavata  Furana  descriptive  of  Vishnu's 
incarnations  it  is  said  (i.  3,  16) :  Svrdswdndm  udadhim  mathnatdm 
mathandehalam  \  dadhre  kama(ha-rupena  pruhthe  ekddah  vibhuh  |  "  In 
his  eleventh  incarnation,  the  Lord  in  the  form  of  a  tortoise  supported 
on  his  back  the  churning-mountain,  when  the  gods  and  Asuras  were 
churning  the  ocean." 

In  its  application  of  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  37,  5,  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  14,  1,  2,  11,  makes  the  following  allusion  to  the  elevation 
of  the  earth  by  a  boar :  " lyaty  agre  dsld"  (Vaj.  S.  37,  5)  iti  \  iyati 
ha  vai  iyam  agre  prithivy  dsa  prddeia-mdtrl  \  tdm  Emushah  iti  va- 
rahalf "  ujjaghdna  \  so  'sydh  patilj,  Prajdpatis  tenaiva  enam  etanmithu- 
nena  priyena  dhdmnd  "  samardhayati  kritmam  karoti  ityddi  | 

" '  She  (the  earth)  was  formerly  so  large,'  etc. ;  for  formerly  this 

">  Kas'yapa  is  mentioned  in  the  A.  V.  xix.  63,  10  (see  the  fifth  volume  of  this 
work,  p.  408) ;  as  well  as  in  two  rather  obscure  verses  of  the  Sama-veda,  which  do 
not  occur  in  the  Rigveda.  The  first  is  i.  90 :  Jatah  parena  dharmani  yat  savridbhih 
saAabhuvttA  \  pita  yat  Kaiyapaayagnih  S'raddha  mata  Manuli  havil}  \  "  Since  vrith 
thy  companions,  thou  hast  been  produced  through  an  excellent  rite ;  since  Agni  is. 
the  father,  Faith  (S'raddha)  the  mother,  and  Mann  the  bard,  of  Kas'yapa."  The 
second  is  i.  361 :  Kaayapasya  svarvido  yav  ahult  sayujav  iti  \  yayor  viavam  apf 
vratam  yajnam  dhtrali  nichayya  \  "  Whom  twain  the  wise,  revering,  declare  to  be  the 
companions  of  the  heavenly  Karfyapa;  to  whom  twain  [they  declare]  the  entire 
power  (or  ceremonial)  and  sacrifice  to  belong." 

Рќа"  SeeR.V.  viii.  66,  10. 

'"  In  regard  to  these  words  compare  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iii.  9, 1,  20. 


28  PRAJAPATI,  DAKSHA,  BHAEATA. 

earth  was  only  so  large,  of  the  size  of  a  span.  Emusha,  a  boar,  raised 
her  up.  Her  lord,  Prajapati,  in  consequence,  prospers  him  with  this 
pair,  the  object  of  his  desire,  and  makes  him  complete,"  etc.  Compare 
the  passages  from  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita  and  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  etc., 
quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp,  52  ff.,  and  181  ff. ;  and 
also  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  390  ff. 

From  Weber's  Ind.  Stud.  i.  78,  I  find  that  in  the  Taittirlya  Aran- 
yaka  also,  the  earth  is  said  to  have  been  "  raised  by  a  black  boar  with 
a  hundred  arms"  {vm'a'hena  krishnena  iata-hahuna  uddhrita). 

I  quote  some  further  texts  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  relative  to 
Prajapati. 

In  the  following  he  is  said  to  have  in  the  beginning  constituted  the 
universe,  and  to  have  created  Agni  (see  above,  p.  26). 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  Li.  2,  4,  1 . Рђћ Prcyapatir  ha  vai  idam  agre  ehah 
evasa  I  sa  aikshata  '  kafharh  nu  prajayeya '  Hi  \  so  'iramyat  sa  tapo  'tap- 
yata  so  'gnim  eva  mukhaj  janaydncJiakre  ityadi  \  "  Prajapati  alone  was 
all  this  [universe]  in  the  beginning.  He  considered,  'how  can  I  be 
reproduced  ? '  He  toiled,  and  performed  austerity.  He  generated 
Agni  from  his  mouth."  Compare  the  passages  quoted  in  the  first  vol. 
of  this  work,  pp.  24,  69  ff. ;  ia  volume  third,  p.  4 ;  and  in  volume 
fifth,  pp.  390,  ff. 

In  the  next  passage  he  is  identified  with  Da,ksha :  " 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  4,  4,  1. Рђћ Prajapatir  ha  vai  etenagre  yaj- 
neneje  prajdkamo  '  bahuh  prajaya  paiulhih  syam  iriyarn  gaehheyam  yaiah 
syam  annadah  syam'  iti  \  sa  vai  Ddksho  ndma  ityadi  \  "Prajapati 
formerly  sacrificed  with  this  sacrifice,  being  desirous  .of  progeny,  [and 
saying]  'may  I  abound  ia  offspring  and  cattle,  attain  prosperity, 
become  famous,  and  obtain  food.'     He  was  Daksha." 

In  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  8,  1,  14,  Prajapati  is  said  to  be  the 
supporter  of  the  universe  (a  function  afterwards  assigned  to  Vishnu) : 
Prajapatir  vai  bharatah  sa  hi  idam  sarvam  iibhartti  |  "Prajapati  is 
Bharata  (the  supporter),  for  he  supports  aU  this  universe."'* 

"  See  R.  V.  x.  72,  4,  5  (above  p.  12). 

'''  In  R.  V.  i.  96,  3,  the  epithet  Bharata  is  applied  to  Agni.  The  commentator 
there  quotes  another  text,  no  doubt  from  a.  Brahmana,  eaha  prano  bhuim  prajah 
bibhartti  tasmad  esfia  bharatah  |  "  He  becoming  breath,  sustains  aU  creatures ;  hence 
he  is  the  sustainer." 


PRAJAPATI,  PURUSHA  NARATANA,  BRAHMA.  29 

Compare  the  first  verse  of  the  Mundlata  TJpanishad,  where  Brahma 
is  called  the  preserver  of  the  world  {yhvmmuMya  gopta). 

In  the  next  passage  Frajapati  is  represented  as  desirous,  not  to 
create,  but  to  conquer,  the  worlds : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii.  2,  4,  1. Рђћ PrajSpaUr  aJedmayata  'whhau 
hkav  abh^ayeyam  deva-loiancha  manushya-Ioiancha '  ityadi  \  "  Frajapati 
desired,  '  may  I  conquer  both  worlds,'  that  of  the  gods,  and  that  of 
men,"  etc.     Comp.  S'atap.  Br.,  x.  2,  1,  1. 

In  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii.  6, 1, 1,  Purusha  Narayana  is  introduced : 
Pwmho  ha  Narayano  'kamayata  '  atitishtheyam  sarvdni  bhutdny  aham 
eva  idam  sarvam  syam '  iti  \  sa  eiam  pierusha-medham  pancha-ratram 
yaj'nakratum  apasyat  tarn  aharat  Una  ayajatu  tena  ishtvd  Hyatishthat 
sarvdni  hhutani  idam  sarvam  ahhavat  \  atitishthati  sarvdni  bhutdni  idam 
sarvam  hhavati  yah  evatn  vidvdn  purusha-medhena  yttfate  yo  vai  etad  evam 
veda  I 

"Purusha  Narayana  desired,  'may  I  surpass  all  created  things; 
may  I  alone  become  all  this  ? '  He  beheld  this  form  of  sacrifice  called 
'  purusha-medha '  (human  sacrifice)"  lasting  five  nights.  He  took  it ; 
he  sacrificed  with  it.  Having  sacrificed  with  it,  he  surpassed  all 
created  things,  and  became  all  this.  That  man  surpasses  all  created 
things,  and  becomes  all  this,  who  thus  knowing,  sacrifices  with  the 
'purusha-medha,' Рђћ ^he  who  so  knows  this."  The  Purusha-sukta  is 
shortly  afterwards  quoted.  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.  xii.  3,  <11,  quoted  in  the 
fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  377. 

In  S'atap.  Br.,  xi.  2,  3,  1,  Brahma  (in  the  neuter)  is  introduced  as 
being  the  original  source  of  all  things:  Brahma  vai  idam  agre  dm.t  \ 
tad  devdn  asryata  \  tad  devdn  srishtvd  eshu  loheshu  vydrohayad  asminn  eva 
hlce'gnim  Fayum  antarikshe  divy  eva  Suryam  |  "In  the  beginning  Brahma 
was  all  this.  He  created  the  gods.  Having  created  the  gods,  he  placed 
them  in  these  worlds,  in  this  world  Agni,  Vayu  in  the  atmosphere,  and 
Surya  in  the  sky."  This  passage  is  quoted  at  greater  length  in  vol.  v.  of 
this  work,  p.  387  ff.  Comp.  the  other  passages  quoted  in  pp.  378-390 
and  Taitt.  Br.  iii.  12,  3,  1,  cited  in  p.  361,  note,  of  the  same  volume  Рђб 
and  S'atapatha  Brahmana  xiv.,  4,  2,  21,  and  23  (=Brihadaranyaka 
Upanishad  in  Bibliotheca  Indica,  pp.  198  ff.,  and  235). 

In  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii.  7,  1,  1,  Brahma  is  described  as 
sacrificing  himself:  Brahma  vai  svayambhu  tapo  'tapyata  |  tad  aikshata 


30  CREATION  AS  DESCRIBED  BY  MANU. 

'  na  vai  tapasy  Snantyam  asti  hania  ahcrni  hhuteskv  atmanam  juliavdni 
bhutani  cha  dtmani'  iti  \  tat  sarveshu  Ihuteshv  atmanam  htitvd 
bhutdni  cha  atmani  sarvesham  IhutanS'm  irauhthya^  svarafyaM  adhi- 
patyam  paryait  \  tathaiva  etad  yqfamanah  sarvamedhe  sarvdn  medhdn 
liutvd  sarvdni  bhutdni  sraishthyam  svdrdjyam  ddhipatyam  pa/ryeti  | 
"  The  self-existent  Brahma  performed  austerity.  He  considered,  '  in 
austerity  there  is  not  infinity.  Come  let  me  sacrifice  myself  in  created 
things,  and  created  things  in  myself.'  Then  having  sacrificed  himself 
in  all  created  things,  and  all  created  things  in  himself,  he  acquired 
superiority,  self-efiulgence,  and  supreme  dominion  (compare  Manu, 
xii.  91).  Therefore  a  man  ofiering  all  oblations,  all  creatures,  in  the 
'  sarvamedha'  (universal  sacrifice),  obtains  superiority,  self-effulgence, 
and  supreme  dominion.'"'  See  also  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  8,  2  f.,  quoted  in 
the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  372,  note  554. 


The  following  is  the  account  of  the  creation,  given  at  a  later  period 
by  Manu,  i.  5  ff.,  founded,  no  doubt,  on  B,.  V.  x.  129,  and  the  passages 
of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  given  above  (pp.  20  ff.),  or  some  other 
ancient  sources  of  the  same  character,  with  an  intermixture  of  more 
modern  doctrines : 

And  idam  tamobhutam,  aprajndtam  alahhanam  \  apratarhyam  avijne- 
yam  prasuptam  iva  sarvatah  \  6.  Tatah  svayambhur  bhagwodn  myakto 
vyanjayann  idam  \  mahdbhutddi  vrittaujdh  prddwdslt  tamonudah  \  7. 
Yo  'sav  atindriya-yrdhyah  sukshmo  'vyahtah  sanatanah  \  sarva-bhutamayo 
'chintyah  sa  eva  avayam  udbabhau  \  S.So'bhidhydyaiarirdtsvdtsisriishitr 
vividhah  prcydh  \  apah  eva  sasarjjddau  tdsu  vlj'am  avdsrijat  \  9.  Tad 
andam  abhavad  haimam  sahasrdmia-samaprabham  \  tasmirh  j(yne  svayam 
Brahmd  sarva-loka-pitdmahah  \  10.  Apo  ndrdh  iti  proktdh  dpo  vai  nara- 
sunavah  \  tdh  yad  aaydyanam  purvaihtena  Ndrdyanah  smritah  |  II.  Tat 
tat  Mranam  avyaktam  nityam  sadasaddtmalcam  \  tad-visrishfah  sa  purttsho 
lolce  Brahmeti  kirtyate  \  12.  Tasminn  ande  sa  bhagavan  ushiivd  parivat- 
saram  \  svayam  endtmano  dhydndt  tad  andam  akarod  dvidhd  \IS.  tdbhydm 
sa  iakaldbhydneha  divam  bhumincha  nirmame  \  madhye  vyoma  diSa^  eha- 
sh{dv  cipdrn  sthdnam  cha  idhatam  \ 

5.  "This  universe  was  enveloped  in  darkness,  unperceived,  undis- 

'"  See  the  discussion  on  the  sense  of  E.  V.  i.  81,  1,  5,  6  (ahove,  pp.  9  f.). 


KULLTTKA'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE.  31 

tinguishable,  undiscoverable,  unknowable,  as  it  were  entirely  sunk  in 
sleep.  6.  Then  the  irresistible  self-existent  Lord,  undiscerned,  causing 
this  universe  with  the  five  elements  and  all  other  things,  to  become 
discernible,  was  manifested,  dispelling  the  gloom.  7.  He  who  is  be- 
yond the  cognizance  of  the  senses,  subtile,  undiscemible,  eternal,  who 
is  the  essence  of  all  beings,  and  inconceivable,  himself  shone  forth. 
8.  He,  desiring,  seeking  to  produce  various  creatures  from  his  own 
body,  first  created  the  waters,  and  deposited  in  them  a  seed.  9.  This 
[seed]  became  a  golden  egg,  resplendent  as  the  sun,  in  which  he  him- 
self was  bom  as  Brahma,  the  progenitor  of  all  the  worlds.  10.  The 
waters  are  called  'narah,'  because  they  are  the  oflEspring  of  Kara;  and 
since  they  were  formerly  the  place  of  his  movement  (ayana),  he  is 
therefore  called  Narayana,  11.  Being  formed  by  that  First  Cause, 
undiscemible,  eternal,  which  is  both  existent  and  non-existent,  that 
Male  {purusha)  is  known  in  the  world  as  Brahma.  12.  That  lord 
having  continued  a  year  in  the  egg,  divided  it  into  two  parts  by  his 
mere  thought.  13.  With  these  two  shells  he  formed  the  heavens  and 
the  earth;  and  in  the  middle  he  placed  the  sky,  the  eight  regions, 
and  the  eternal  abode  of  the  waters." 

It  will  be  observed  from  verses  9-11,  that  the  appellation  Narayam 
is  applied  to  Brahma,  and  that  no  mention  is  made  of  Vishnu. 

On  verse  8  Kulluka  annotates  thus :  '  Tad  andam  dbhavad  haimam' 
iti  1  tad  vyam  ParameharecKhaya  haiman  andam  aihavad  haimam  iva 
haimam  ^uddM-guna-yogdd  na  tu  haimam  eva  |  tadiyaika-ialcalena  Ihur 
mi-nirmdnasya  vaishyamdmfvad  Ihumeschahaimatvasya  pratyahhatvdd 

upachdrairayanam tasminn  ande  Hiranyagarlho  jdta/vdn  \  yena 

purva-janmani  'Hiranyagarlho  'ham  asmi'  iti  Iheddhheda-bhdvanayd 
Pwram^iva/ropdiand  Teritd  tadiyam  linga-kariravaehhinna-jlvam  anupra- 
viiya  svayam  Paramdtmd  eva  Siranyagwrlha-rupataya  prddurhhutaht  \ 
"  'That  [seed]  became  a  golden  egg,'  etc.  That  seed  by  the  wUl  of 
the  deity  became  a  golden  egg.  Golden,  i.e.  as  it  were  golden,  from 
the  quality  of  purity  attaching  to  it,  and  not  really  golden ;  for  since 
the  author  proceeds  to  describe  the  formation  of  the  earth  from  one 
of  the  halves  of  its  shell,  and  since  we  know  by  ocular  proof  that  the 
earth  is  not  golden,  we  see  that  a  mere  figure  of  speech  is  here  in- 
tended  In  that  egg  Hiranyagarbha  was  produced:  ┬Ф.┬Ф.  entering 

into  the  living  soul, Рђћ invested  with  a  subtile  body, Рђћ of  that  person 


32         HIEANTAGAEBHA  ACCOEDING  TO  THE  HAEIVANS'A. 

by  whom  in  a  fonner  birth  the  deity  was  worshipped,  with  the 
contemplation  of  distinctness  and  identity  expressed  in  the  words, 
'  I  am  Hiranyagarbha,'  the  supreme  Spirit  himself  became  manifested 
in  the  form  of  Hiranyagarbha." 

The  creation  is  narrated  in  a  similar  manner,  but  without  the  intro- 
duction of  any  metaphysical  elements,  in  the  Harivamia,  vt.  35  ff. : 
Tatah  svayambhur  hhagavdn  sisrikshur  vividhah  pry  ah  \  apah  eva  sasarjjd- 
dau  tasu  mjam  avdsrij'at  \  apo  ndra^  iti  proMdh  dpo  vai  nara-sunavah  \ 
ayanam  tasya  tdh  purvam  tena  ndrdyanalf  smritah  \  Mranywoa/rnam 
dbhmat  tad  andam  udakeiayam  \  tatrajcy'ne  svayam  Brahma  tvayambhur 
iti  nah  Srutam  \  Siranyagarhho  hhagavan  ushitvd  parivatsaram  |  tad 
andam  oka/rod  dvaidham  divam  bhmam  athapi  eha  \  tayoh  iakalayor 
madhye  akdsam  asrijat  prahhu^  \  apsu  pdriplavdm  prithvim  diia^cha 
daiadhd  dadhe  \ 

"  Then  the  self-existent  lord,  desiring  to  produce  various  creatures, 
first  of  all  formed  the  waters,  and  deposited  in  them  a  seed.  The 
waters  are  called  'narah,'  for  they  are  the  offspring  of  Nara.  They 
were  formerly  the  place  of  his  movement ;  hence  he  is  called  '  Nara- 
yana.'  That  seed  became  a  golden-coloured  egg,  reposing  on  the 
water :  in  it  the  self-existent  Brahma  himself  was  bom,  [or,  in  it  he 
himself  was  born  as  the  self-existent  Brahma],  as  we  have  heard. 
The  divine  Hiranyagarbha  having  dwelt  [in  the  egg]  a  year,  divided 
it  into  two  parts,  heaven  and  earth.  In  the  midst  between  these  two 
shells,  the  Lord  created  the  aether,  and  the  earth  floating  about  on  the 
waters,  and  placed  the  regions  in  ten  directions." 

In  a  later  part  of  the  same  work  we  find  another  account  of  the 
production  of  Hiranyagarbha : 

Harivam^a,  vv.  12,  425  ff. Рђћ Jagat-srasMu-mandh  devai  cMntaydmdsa 
purvatah  \  tasya  ehintayato  vaktrad  nihsritah  purushah  kila  \  tataft  sa 
purusho  devam  kiih  ka/romity  upashthitah  \  pratymacha  smitam  kritvd 
deva-devo  jagat-patih  \  '  vibhafdtmdnam'  ity  uktvd  gato  'ntardhanam 
livarah  \  antarhitasya  devasya  sa^arirasya  bhdsvatah  \  pradlpasyeva 
kdntasya  gatis  tasya  na  vidyate  \  tatas  teneritam  pdnim  so  'nvaohintayata 
prabhuh  \  "  Hiranyagarhho  bhagavdn  yah  esha  chMndasd  stutah  \  ekah 
prcydpatih  purvam  abhavad  bhwoanddhipah  \  tadd-prabhriti  tasyddyo 
yajna-hhdgo  vidhiyate  \  '  vibhajatmdnam'  ityuktas  tendsmi  sumahdtmana  \ 
katham  atmd  vibhajyah  syat  samiayo  hy  atra  me  mahdn  "  \ 


PRIMEVAL  "WATERS;  BRAHMA  AS  A  BOAE.  33 

"Being  desirous  to  create  the  world,  the  deity  formerly  meditated. 
As  he  meditated,  a  man  {^pu/rusha)  issued  from  his  mouth.  This  man 
then  approached  the  deity,  [saying]  '  what  am  I  to  do  ? '  The  god 
of  gods,  the  lord  of  the  vorld,  answered  smiling,  'divide  thyself.' 
Having  thus  spoken,  the  lord  vanished.  The  path  of  the  radiant 
embodied  deity,  when  he  has  vanished,  is  not  known,  like  that  [of 
the  flame]  of  an  extinguished  taper.  The  lord  then  meditated  [thus] 
upon  the  word  which  the  deity  had  uttered :  '  This  divine  Hiranya- 
garbha,  who  is  celebrated  in  the  Vedic  hymn,  was  formerly  the  one 
sole  Prajapati,  the  ruler  of  the  world.  Thenceforward  the  first  half 
of  the  sacrifice  is  allotted  to  him.  "Divide  thyself," Рђћ thus  have  I  been 
commanded  by  that  mighty  being.  But  how  is  the  self  to  be  divided  ? 
Here  I  have  great  doubt.'  "  Then  follow  the  verses  which  have  been 
quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  vork,  p.  13  f.,  to  which  I  refer. 

The  Eamayana,  which  I  quote  first  according  to  the  recension  of 
Schlegel  (which  here  coincides  with  the  Serampore,  and  essentially 
with  the  Bombay,  editions),  thus  describes  the  origin  of  the  world  : 

Eamayana  (Schlegel's  ed.),  ii.  110,  2  ff. Рђћ Imam  loia-samutpattim 
loha-natha  nihodha  me  \  3.  Smva/lh  mlilam  evdsit  prithivi  yatra  nirmita  |" 
tdtah  samabhavad  Brahma  svayamhhur  daivataih  saha  |  4.  Sa  vardha) 
tato  hhutva  pryjahdra  vasundhardm  \  asrijacheha  jagat  sarvaih  saha 
putraih  kritdtmabhih  \  5.  Ahdia-pralihavo  Brahma  Sdivato  nityam 
avyayah  \  tasmdd  Marichih  sanjajne  Ma/rlcJieh  Kasyapah  sutah  \  6. 
Vivasvan  Kaiyapaj  jajne  Manv/r  Vivasvatah  smritah  |  sa  tu  Prajdpatih 
purvam  ityadi  \ 

Vasishtha  says:  "Lord  of  the  people,  understand  from  me  this 
[account  of]  the  origin  of  the  worlds.  3.  AE.  was  water  only,  in 
which  the  earth  was  formed.  Thence  arose  Brahma,  the  self-existent, 
with  the  deities.  4.  He  then,  becoming  a  boar,"  raised  up  the  earth, 
and  created  the  whole  world  with  the  saints,  his  sons.  5.  Brahma, 
eternal,  and  perpetually  undecaying,  sprang  from  the  ether ;  from  him 
was  descended  Marichi;  the  son  of  Marlchi  was  Kai^yapa.  6.  Erom 
Ea^yapa  sprang  Yiv^svat,  and  Manu  is  declared  to  have  been  Vivasvat's 
son.     He  (Manu)  was  formerly  the  Prajapati,"  etc. 

Рќа"  See  Appendix  A. 

"  Compare  S'atapatha  Bralimana,  14,  1,  2,  11,  quoted  above,  p.  27. 


34  PRIMEVAL  "WATERS ;  VISHNU  AS  A  BOAE. 

It  will  be  observed  that  here  it  is  Brahma  who  assumes  the  form 
of  a  boar  to  raise  up  the  earth  from  under  the  ocean.  In  the  Gauda 
recension  of  Gorresio,  however,  this  function  is  transferred  to  Vishnu ; 
and  this  I  regard  as  one  proof  that  this  recension  of  the  text  is  more 
modern  than  that  followed  by  Schlegel.  I  have  indicated  by  italics 
in  my  translations  the  important  points  in  which  the  two  recensions 
differ  from  one  another. 

Kamayana  (Gorresio's  ed.),  ii.  119,  2  ff. Рђћ Imam  loha-samutpatUm 
loTca-ndtha  nibodha  me  \  3.  Sarvam  salilam  evdsit  vasudha  yena  nirmita  \ 
tatah  samahhavad  Brahma  svayamhhur  Vishnur  avyayah  \  4.  8a  varaho 
'tha  hhutvemam  ujjahara  vasundhardm  \  asrijaohcha  jagat  sarvam  saeha/ra- 
charam  myayam  \  5.  Akdia-prabhavo  Brahma  sdhato  nityam  a/vyayah  \ 
tasmdd  Marlchih  sanjajne  Marichek  Ka&yapah  sutah  |  6.  Tatah  parydya- 
sargena  Vivasvdn  asrijad  Manum  ityddi  \ 

"  Lord  of  the  people,  understand  from  me  this  [account  of]  the 
origin  of  the  worlds.  3.  All  was  water  only,  through  which  the  earth 
was  formed.  Thence  arose  Brahma,  the  self-existent,  the  imperishable 
Vishnu.  4.  He  then,  becoming  a  boar,  raised  up  this  earth,  and 
created  the  whole  world,  movable  and  immovable,  imperishable.  5. 
Brahma,  eternal,  and  perpetually  undecaying,  sprang  from  the  ether; 
from  him  was  descended  Marichi;  the  son  of  Marichi  was  Kasyapa. 
6.  By  successive  creation,  Vivasvat  created  Manu,"  etc. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  at  the  end  of  the  third  sloka,  the  reading  ot 
the  first  recension,  viz.  Brahmd  svayambhur  daivataih  saha,  "  Brahma, 
the  self-existent,  with  the  deities"  is,  in  the  second,  changed  into 
Brahmd  svayambhur  Vishnur  avyayah,  "Brahma,  the  self-existent,  the 
imperishable  Vishnu,"  whereby  Brahma  becomes  a  mere  manifestation 
of  Vishnu, Рђћ a  character  of  which  we  have  no  hint  in  the  earlier 
recension.  Similarly  the  words  which  are  given  in  Schlegel's  recen- 
sion, at  the  close  of  the  fourth  sloka,  viz.  saha  putraih  Icritdtmabhih, 
"with  the  saints,  his  sons,"  are  in  the  other  recension  altered  into 
sachardcharam  a/vyayam,  "movable  and  immovable,  and  imperishable" 
Рђћ epithets  descriptive  of  the  world.  This  second  alteration  was 
rendered  necessary  by  the  first :  for  as  soon  as  the  god  who  is  the 
subject  of  the  passage  had  been  changed  from  Brahma  to  Vishnu,  the 
mention  of  sons  became  inapplicable;  as  Vishnu  is  not  described  in 
the  accounts  of  the  creation  as  having  any  sons,  whereas  Brahma  is. 


"WATERS  PRODUCED  FROM  THE  ETHER.  35 

Compare  witli  the  fifth,  verse  of  the  passage  before  us  (in  Schlegel's 
text),  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  7,  1  ff. ;  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  64  f.  The  accounts  of  Bl'ahma's  descendants  are  not, 
however,  always  consistent.  See  Manu,  i.  32  ff.,  and  Vishnu  Purana, 
i.  7,  12  ff.,  quoted  in  pp.  35  ff.,  and  64  f.,  of  vol.  i. 

The  origin  of  the  world  is  similarly  described  in  the  Mahabharata 
xii.  6806  f. 

Bhrigur  v/oacka  \  Praja-visargafn  vimdham  Manaso  manasa  'srijat  \ 
samrahhanclrtham  Ihutanani-  srishtam  prathamato  jalam-  \  yah  prdnah 
sarva-hhutdnam  vardhante  yma  oha  prajah  \ pmrityaMak  cha  nakyanti 
tenedam,  sarvum  avritam  |  prithivi  parvatdh  meghah  murtimantas  cha  ye 
''pare  \  sarvam  tad  varunam  jneyam  apas  tastambhire  yatah  |  .  .  .  . 
Brahmahalpe  purd  brahman  brahmarshinam,  samagame  \  loha-sambha- 
va-sandehah  samutpanno  mahdtmandm  \  Te  'tishthan  dhyanam  dlambya 
m.aunam  dsfhSya  nischal&h  |  tyaktdharah  pavana-pdh  divyafh  varsha- 
iatam  d/oijdh  \  feshdm  JSrahmamayl  vdnl  sarveshdm  irotram  dgamat  \ 
divyd  Sarawatl  tatra  sambabhuva  nabhastaldt  \  purd  stimitam  alcasam, 
anantam  achahpamam  \  nashtn-ehandrdrha-pavanam  prasvptam.  iva 
sambabhau  \  tatah  salilam  utpannafh,  tamaslvdparam  tamah  \  ta&mdch  cha 
salihtpiddd  udatishthata  mdrutah  \ 

"  Bhrigu  says :  Manasa'"  (the  Intellectual)  formed  by  a  mental 
effort  the  varied  creation  of  living  beings.  For  the  preservation  of 
creatures  water  was  first  produced, Рђћ water  which  is-  the  breath  of  all 
creatures,  by  which  they  grow,  and  forsaken  by  which  they  die : Рђћ by  it 
all  things  were  covered.  The  earth,  the  mountains,  the  clouds,  and 
other  material  objects ; Рђћ all  these  things  must  be  understood  as  aqueous, 
because  the  waters  supported  them."  Bharadvaja  asks  how  water, 
fire,  air  [or  wind],  and  earth  were  created,  and  Bhrigu  replies : 
"  Formerly,  in  an  assemblage  of  Brahman  rishis,  in  the  Brahmakalpa,  a 
doubt  arose  in  their  minds  as  to  the  production  of  the  worlds.  These 
Brahmans  continued  fixed  in  meditation  and  in  sUence,  eating  no.  food, 
drinking  in  only  air,  for  a  hundred  years  of  the  gods.  A  voice,  of  the 
essence  of  Brahma,  reached  the  ears  of  them  aU :  the  divine  Sarasvati 

'8  This  word  is  defined  in  v.  6775  :  Manaso  nama  yahpurvo  visruto  vai  maharahi- 
bhih  I  anadi-nidhano  devas  tatha  'bhedyo  'jaramarah  \  "  The  primfiTal  god,  irithont 
beginning  or  dissolution,  indivisible,  undeoaying  and  imnwrtal,  who  is  known  and 
called  by  great  rishis  Manasa,"  etc. 


36  BHAGAVATA  AKD  VISHNU  PURANAS 

sprang  forth  from  the  heavens.  Formerly  the  infinite  ether,  motion- 
less, like  a  mountain, Рђћ moon,  sun  and  air  having  been  destroyed  in  it, Рђћ 
appeared  as  it  were  asleep.  Then  water  was  produced  like  another 
darkness  {tamai^j  in  darkness,  and  from  the  foam  of  that  water  arose  air." 


Before  proceeding  to  quote  the  other  texts  which  I  have  to  adduce  re- 
garding the  egg  of  Brahma,  I  shall  here  introduce  two  quotations,  to  show 
how  the  assumption  of  the  form  of  a  boar,  ascribed  in  the  older  recension 
of  this  passage  of  the  Bamayana  to  Brahma,  is  in  works  of  a  later 
date  represented  as  the  act  of  Vishnu.  The  first  passage  forms  a  part 
of  the  rapid  enumeration  of  the  twenty-two  incarnations  of  Vishnu,  in 
the  Bhagavata  Purana,  L  3,  7 :  Dvitiyam  tu  bhaodyasya  rasa-tala-gatdm 
mahlm  \  uddhwrishyann  upadatta  yajneiah  saukwram  vapuh  \  "  Secondly, 
with  a  view  to  the  creation  of  this  universe,  the  lord  of  sacrifice,  being 
desirous  to  raise  up  the  earth,  which  had  sunk  into  the  lower  regions, 
assumed  the  form  of  a  boar." 

The  second  passage  to  be  adduced  is  from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  4, 
1  ff.  (p.  57  ff.  of  Wilson's  English  trans..  Dr.  Hall's  ed.,  vol.  i.),  and  has 
been  already  partly  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  50  f. : 

Maitreya  uvacha  |  Brahma,  NarayanaJchyo  'sau  Tcalpadau  Ihagmian 
yatha  \  sasarjja  sarva-bhutani  tad  achahshva  mahamune''^  \  Pmrasarah 
uvacha  \  prajah  sasarjja  Ihagavan  Brahma  Narayanatmalcah  |  prajapaii- 
patir  devo  yatha  tan  me  nisamaya  \  aUta-halpavasane  nisa-svptoUhitah 
prahhuh  \  sattvodrihtas  tato  Brahma  sunyam  lokam  avaikshata  \  Nara- 
yanah  pare  'chintyah  paresham  apt  sa  prahhuh  \  Brahma-svarupl  Ihaga- 

'9  I  take  the  opportunity  of  quoting  here  an  answer  given  in  the  Vishnu  Purana, 
i.  3,  1  ff.  (p.  44  of  Wilson's  trans,  in  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  vol.  i.),  to  the  question  how  it  is 
conoeivahle  that  Brahma  should  create ; Рђћ an  answer  which,  if  admitted  as  the  only 
solution  of  the  problem,  would  have  rendered  many  speculations  of  the  Indian 
philosophers  unnecessary.  Maitreyah  wvacha  \  nirgunasyaprmneyasya  suddhasyapy 
amalatmanah  \  katham  iargadikarttritvam  Srahmano  'bhyttpapadyate  |  Farasarah 
uvacha  \  saktayah  sarva-hhavanam  achintya-jnana-goeharah  \  yato  'to  Brahmanas 
tas  tu  sargadyah  bhava-aaktayah  |  bhmanti  tapasam  ireshtha  pavakasya  yathoshnttta  | 
"  Maitreya  asks :  How  can  the  agencies  of  creation,  etc.,  be  possible  to  Brahma,  who 
is  devoid  of  the  [three]  qualities,  immeasurable,  pure,  and  free  from  stain  ?  Paras'ara 
answers:  Since  powers  which  could  not  be  imagined  [f]  are  actu  illy  known  to  belong 
to  all  natures,  therefore,  0  chief  of  ascetics,  these  powers  of  creative  agency,  etc., 
belong  to  the  essence  of  Brahma,  as  heat  is  an  attribute  of  fire."  Dr.  Hall  translates 
differently.   See  bis  note.   Can  the  proper  reading  be  achintyah  in  place  of  achintya  ? 


ON  VISHNU'S  INCARNATION  AS  A  BOAE.  37 

van  anddih  sarva-samMavah  |  toyantah  sa  mahl'fh  jnatva  jagaty  ekarnave 
prabhuh  \  anumdndd  tad-uddharafh  harttu-kamah  Prajapatih  \  dkarot 
sa  tanum  anydm  Icdlpddishu  yaths,  pwra  \  matsya-kurmadikam  tadvad 
varaha^i  vwpur  ashthitah  \  veda-yajnamayam  rupam  akesha-jagatah 
sthitau  I  sthitah  stMratmd  sarvdtmd  paramdtmd  Prafdpatih  \  janaloha- 
gataih  siddkaih  Sanalcddyair  dbhuhtutah  \  praviveia  tada  toyam  dtmd- 
dhdro  dhwrddha/rah  \  nirlkshya  tarn  tadd  devi  pdtdla-talam  dgatam  \ 
iushtdva  pranatd  bhutvd  hhahti-namrd  vamndhwrd  \  Prithvy  uvdeha  \ 
llamas  te  sarva-hhutdya  tuhhyam  iankha-gadd-dhara  \  mdm  uddhar- 
dsmdd  adya  tvam  tvatto  'ham  purvam  utthitd  |  .  .  .  .  sambhalcshayitvd 
sakalam  jagaty  eJcdrnavlJcrite  |  seshe  tvam  eva  Govinda  chintyamdno 
mamsMhhih  \  hhavato  yat  pararh  rupam  tan  najdndti  kahhana  \  avatdr- 
esku  yad  rupam  tad  archanti  dwaukasah  \  tvdm  drddhya  param  Brahma 
ydtdh  muktim  mumukshavah  |  Vdsudevam  andrddhya  ko  moksham  sama- 
vdpsyati  |  .  .  .  .  tvam  yajnas  tvam  vashatkdras  tvam  omkdras  tvam 
agnayah  [  .  .  .  .  Hvam  samstuyamdnas  tu  JPrithivyd  prithivi-dharah  | 
sdma-svara-dhvanih  irlmdnjagarjja  parighwrgharam  \  tatah  samutksMpya 
dhardrh  sa  damshtrayd  mahdva/rdhah  sphuta-padma-Iochanah  \  rasdtaldd 
utpala-patra-sannihhah  samutthito  nilah  ivdehalo  mahdn  |  .  .  .  .  evam 
samstuyamdnas  tu  Paramdtmd  mahidharah  |  ufj'ahdra  mahim  hshipram 
nyastavdms  eha  mahdmhhasi  \  tasyopari  jalaughasya  mahati  naur  iva 
sthitd  I  vitatatvdt  tu  dehasya  na  mahi  ydti  sampla/eam  \ 

"  Maitreya  said :  Tell  me,  great  Muni,  how,  at  the  heginning  of  the 
Xalpa,  that  divine  Brahma  called  Narayana  created  all  beings.  Parai^ara 
replied:  Hear  from  me  how  the  divine  Brahma,  lord  of  the  Prajapatis, 
who  had  the  nature  of  Narayana,  created  living  beings.  At  the  close  of  the 
past  (or  Padma)  Kalpa,  Braluna,  the  lord,  endowed  predominantly  with 
the  quality  of  goodness,  awoke  from  his  night-slumber,  and  beheld  the 
universe  void.  He  [was]  the  supreme  lord  Narayana,  who  cannot  even 
be  conceived  by  others,  existing  in  the  form  of  Brahma,  the  deity  with- 
out beginning,  the  source  of  all  things.  [The  verse  given  in  Manu 
i.  10,  and  the  Harivansa,  v.  36,  regarding  the  derivation  of  the  word 
Narayana,  is  here  quoted.]  This  lord  Prajapati,  discovering  by  in- 
ference,Рђћ when  the  world  had  become  one  ocean, Рђћ that  the  earth  lay 
within  the  waters,  and  being  desirous  to  raise  it  up,  assumed  another 
form.  As  he  had  formerly,  at  the  commencement  of  the  [previous] 
Kalpas,  taken  the  shape  of  a  fish,  a  tortoise,  etc.  (so  now),  entering 


38  VISHNTJ^S  INCAENATION  AS  A  BOAR. 

the  body  of  a  boar,- Рђћ a  form  composed  of  tbe  Vedas  and  of  sacrifice, 
Рђћ the  lord  of  creatures,  -who  throughout  the  entire  continuance  of  the 
world  remains  fixed,  the  universal  soul,  the  supreme  soul,  the  self- 
sustained,  the  supporter  of  the  earth,  hymned  by  Sanaka  and  other 
saints  residing  in  the  Janaloka,  entered  the  water.  Beholding  him 
then  descended  to  Patala,  the  goddess  Earth,  bowing  down,  pro- 
strated in  devotion,  sang  his  praise :  '  Eeverence,  bearer  of  the  shell 
and  club,,  to  thee  "who  art  all  things:    raise  me   to-day  from  this 

place :  by  thee  have  I  been  formerly  lifted Having  swallowed 

Tip  the  universe,  when  the  world  has  become  one  ocean,  thou,  Govinda, 
sleepest,  meditated  upon  by  the  wise.  No  one  knows  that  which 
is  thy  highest  form :  the  gods  adore  that  form  which  [thou  as- 
sumes't]  in  thy  incarnations.  Worshipping  thee,  the  supreme  Brahima, 
men  desirous  of  final  liberation  hav┬Ф  attained  their  object.      Who 

shall   obtain  liberaticm  without  adoring  Vasudeva? Thou 

art  sacrifice,  thou  art  the  yashatkara  (a  sacrificial  formula),  thou 
art  the  omkara,  thou  art  the  fires.'  ....  Being  thus  celebrated  by 
the  Earth,  the  glorious  upholder  of  the  earth,  with  a  voice  like  the 
chanting  of  the  Samaveda,  uttered  a  deep  thundering  sound.  Then 
the  great  boar,  with  eyes  like  the  expanded  lotus,  tossing  up  the  earth 
with  his  tusk,  rose  up,  resembling  the  leaf  of  the  blue  lotus,  from  the 

lower  regions,  like  the  great  blue  mountain [The  boar  is  then 

again  lauded  by  Sanandana  and  ottier  saints,  in  a  hymn,  in  the  course 
of  which  his  different  members  are  compared  in  detail  to  some  of  the 
materials  and  implements   of  sacrifice,   etc. Рђћ See   Wilson's   Vishnu 

Purana,  2nd  ed.,  i.,  pp.  63  ff.] Being  thus  hymned,  the 

supreme  Soul,  the  upholder  of  the  earth,  lifted  the  earth  up  quickly, 
and  placed  it  upon  the  great  waters.  Resting  upon  this  mass  of 
waters,  like  a  mighty  ship,  the  earth  'does  not  sink,  owing  to  the 
expansion  of  -its  bulk."*"     See  also  the  Mahabharata  iii.  10932  ff. 

Рёб  Another  instance  in  whioli  an  act  ascribed  to  Brahmu  ty  earlier  writers  is  trans- 
ferred to  Vishnu  in  the  later  Puraaas,  may  be  found  in  the  story  of  the  deluge 
in  the  Mbh.,  Vanaparva,  12,  797  ff.  (see  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  196  ff.); 
towards  the  conclusion  of  which,  ty.  12,  797  f.,  the  Fish  declares  himself  to  be 
Brahma :  Athabrmld  cmimishas  tan  rishm  m  hitas  tada  \  aham  Frajapatir  Brahma 
yat-param  nadhigamyate  J  maUya-rupena  yuyaneha  maya  'smad  mokshitali  hhayat  I 
*'  Then  th*  god  {lit.  the  unwinking),  kindly-disposed,  said  to  those  rishis,  '  I  am  the 
Prajapati  BrahmS,  above  whom  no  Being  is  discoverable :  by  me  in  the  form  of  a  fish 


BRAHMA'S  INCARNATION  AS  A  BOAR.  39 

The  Linga  Parana,  however,  which  is  of  the  S'aiva  class,  and  has 
not,  as  such,  any  interest  in  glorifying  Vishnu,  describes  Brahma  as 
the  deity  who  took  the  form  of  a  boar :  Part  i.  4,  59  ff. :  Ratrau 
chaikarnme  Brahma  nashte  sthavara-jangame  \  sushvdpamhhasi  yas 
tasmad  Narayanah  iti  smritah  \  iwrva/ry-ante  prabuddho  vai  drishfva 
sunyam  cha/raoharam  \  srashturh  tada  matim  chakre  Brahma  brahma- 
viddm  varah  \  udahair  aplutdm  hhmam  tarn  samadaya  sanatanah  \ 
purva-vat  sthapaydmasa  varaham  rupam  asthitah  \  "In  the  night, 
when  all  things  movable  and  immovable  had  been  destroyed  in  the 
universal  ocean,  Brahma  slept  upon  the  waters,  and  is  hence  called 
Narayana.  At  the  close  of  the  night,  awaking,  and  beholding  the 
universe  void,  Brahma,  chief  of  the  knowers  of  Brahma,  then  resolved 
to  create.  Having  assumed  the  form  of  a  boar,  this  eternal  [god] 
taking  the  earth,  which  was  overflowed  by  the  waters,  placed  it  as 
it  had  been  before." 

[In  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.  v.  vardha,  reference  is  made 
to  a  further  passage  from  the  Taitt.  S.  vi.  2,  42,  in  which  the  boar  is 
mentioned  (see  above,  pp.  27  f.).  I  quote  this  with  another  story 
which  follows  it :  Yajno  deiehhyo  nildyata  Vishnuriipam  hritvd  \  sa 
prithivlm  prdvisat  \  tarn  devah  hastdn  sa'mrahhya  aiehhan  |  tam  Indrah 
upary  upary  aty  akrdmat  \  m  'bravit  "  ko  md  'yam  wpary  upary  aty 
akramid"  iti  \  " aham  durge  hantd"  iti  \  atha  " kas  tvam"  iti\ 
"  aliam  dwrgdd  dhartd"  iti  \  so  'bravld  "  dwge  vai  hantd  avochathdh  \ 
vardho  'yam  vdmamoshah  saptdndm  girindm  parastdd  vittam  vedyam 

you  have  been  delivered  from  this  danger.'"  Compare  the  story  as  told  in  the  Bhag. 
Pur.  (and  see  Burnouf,  Pref.  to  Bhag.  Pur.,  iii.  p.  xxiii.).  Bhag.  Pur.  viii.  24,  4 : 
Jty  uMo  Vishnwratena  bhagcman  Vadarayanih  |  uvacha  charitam   Vishnor  matsya- 

rupena  yat  hritam  \  S'ukah  uvacha  \ 7.  asld  aftta-kalpante  Brahmo  nai- 

,  mittiko  layah  \  samudropaplutUs  tatra  lolcah  bhuradayo  nripa  \  8.  Kdlenagata-nidrasya 
dhatuh  Hsayishor  ball  \  mukhato  nihsritan  vedan  Bayagrlvo  'ntike  'harat  \  9.  Jnatva 
tad  danavendrasya  Sayagrwaaya  eheshtitam  |  dadhara  sapharirupam  bhagavan  Surir 
tdvarah  ityadi  \  "  Being  thus  addressed  by  Vishnurata,  the  divine  Vadarayani  related 
the  deed  of  Vishnu  done  by  him  under  the  form  of  a  fish.  S'uta  said  ....  7.  At 
the  end  of  the  past  Kalpa  there  was  a  Brahma,  or  partial,  dissolution  of  the  universe 
(see  Wilson's  Vish.  Pur.,  2nd  ed.,  vol.  i.,  p.  113;  vol.  v.,  p.  186);  in  which  the 
earth  and  other  worlds  were  submerged  under  the  ocean.  The  powerful  Hayagriva 
[coming]  near,  snatched  away  the  Vedas  which  had  issued  from  the  mouth  of  the 
creator,  who  from  drowsiness,  which  bad  supervened  through  time,  was  disposed  to 
sleep.  Having  discovered  this  deed  of  Hayagriva,  chief  of  the  Dauavas,  the  diviue 
lord,  Hari,  took  the  form  of  a  saphari  fish,"  etc. 


40  STORIES  FROM  THE  TAITTIRITA  SANHITA. 

Asurdnam  hiiharfi  tarn  jahi  yadi  durge  hmtd  'si"  iti  \  sa  darbha- 
punjlhm  udvrihya  sapta  girln  hhittva  tarn  ahan  |  so  'bravid  "  durgdd 
vat  dhartd  avoekathdh  \  etam  dhara  "  iti  |  tarn  ehhyo  yajnah  eva  yaj'nam 
uharat  \  yat  tad  vittafh  vedyam  asurandm  avindanta  tad  ekam  vedyai 
veditvam  \  Asurandm  vai  iyam  agre  dslt  |  ydvad  dsmah  pardpasyati 
tdvad  devdndm  |  te  devdh  ahruvann  "astv  eva  no  'sydm  api"  iti  \ 
"  Kiyad  vo  ddsydmah"  iti  |  ydvad  iyam  saldvrikl  trih  parikrdmati 
tdvan  no  datta  "  iti  \  sa  Indrak  salavriki-rnpam  hritvd  imdm  trih  sarva- 
tah  paryakrdmat  \  tad  imdm  avindanta  \  yad  imdm  avindanta  tad  vedyai 
veditvam  \  sd  vai  iyam  swrvd  eva  vedi^  \ 

"The  sacrifice,  assuming  the  form  of  Vishnu,  disappeared  from 
among  the  gods,  and  entered  into  the  earth.  The  gods  joined  hands, 
and  searched  for  him.  Indra  passed  oTer  above  him.  He  (Vishnu) 
said,  '  Who  is  this  who  has  passed  over  above  me  ?'  (Indra  replied  :) 
'I  am  he  -who  slays  in  a  castle ;  but  now  who  art  tbou ? '  (Vishnu 
said :)  'I  am  he  who  carries  off  from  a  castle.'  He  (Vishnu)  said :  'Thou 
hast  said  a  slayer  in  a  castle.  This  boar,  the  plunderer  of  wealth, 
keeps  the  goods  of  the  Asuras  on  the  other  side  of  seven  hills.  Kill 
him,  if  thou  art  a  slayer  in  a  castle.'  '  He  (Indra),  plucking  up  a 
bunch  of  Ku^a  grass,  pierced  through  the  seven  hills,  and  slew  him. 
He  (Indra)  then  said:  'Thou  hast  said  /  am  he  who  carries  off  from  a 
castle;  so  carry  him  off.'  He  (Vishnu),  the  sacrifice,  carried  off  the 
sacrifice  for  them.  Inasmuch  as  they  obtained  {avindanta)  these  goods 
of  the  Asuras,  this  is  one  reason  why  the  altar  is  called  vedi. 

"This  earth  formerly  belonged  to  the  Asuras,  whilst  the  gods  had 
only  as  much  as  a  man  can  see  when  sitting.  They  (the  gods)  said, 
'  Let  us  have  a  share  in  this  earth  also  ? '  '  How  much  shall  we  give 
you  ? '  (asked  the  Asuras).  '  As  much  as  this  she-jackal  can  go  round 
in  three  (steps).'  Indra,  assuming  the  form  of  a  she-jackal,  stepped 
aU  round  the  earth  in  three  (strides).  Thus  the  gods  obtained 
{avindanta)  it.  And  from  this  circumstance  the  altar  derives  its  name 
of  vedi." 

Compare  the  various  stories  about  the  original  position  of  the  gods 
in  reference  to  the  Asuras,  given  above,  and  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this 
work,  p.  15,  note]. 


MUNDANE  EGG  ACCORDING  TO  THE  VISHNU  PUEANA.        41 

To  return  to  the  mundane  egg.  In  the  Vishnu  Purana  i.  2,  45  ff. 
we  have  the  following  account  of  its  production,  in  which  the  sim- 
plicity of  the  older  mythical  conceptions  is  destroyed  by  the  inter- 
mixture of  metaphysical  ideas  borrowed  from  the  Sankhya  philosophy. 
In  fact,  though  it  forms  here  the  subject  of  a  magniloquent  description, 
the  egg  was  an  element  in  the  cosmogonic  traditions  with  which  any 
writers  less  ingenious  and  fanciful  than  the  authors  of  the  Puranas 
would,  perhaps,  have  found  it  somewhat  inconvenient  to  deal  in  such 
a  way  as  to  harmonize  with  the  current  philosophical  speculations : 
Akasavayu-tejamsi  salilam  pritMvi  tatha  \  iahdadihhir  gunair  hrahman 
samyuktdny  uttarottmraih  \  iantah  ghoras  cha  mudhas  cha  viseshas  tena 
te  smritah  \  nanaviryyah  prithag-lhutds  tatas  te  samhatiih  vind,  |  naia- 
knuvan  prajah  srashtum  asamdgamya  Icritsnasah  \  sa/metydnyonya-mmyo- 
gam  pa/raspara-samdiraydh  \  eka-sanghdta-lakshyai  cha  samprdpyaihyam, 
aseshatah  \  PwrushddMshthitatvdeh  cha  Pradhdndnugrahena  eha  \  maha- 
dddayo  viseshantdh  andam  uipddayanti  te  \  tat  Icramena  vivridhharh  tu 
jala-ludhuda-vat  samam  \  hhutehhyo  'ndam  mahdbuddhe  vrihat  tad  udake 
iayam  \  prdkritam  Brahma-rupasya  Vishnoh  samsthdnam  uttamam  \ 
tatrdvyakta-svarupo  'sau  vyaMa-rupi  jagat-patih  \  Vishnur  Brahma- 
svarupena  svayam  eva  vyavasthitah  \  Meru-twlyam  abhut  tasya  jardyus 
oha  mahidhardh  \  garhhodaham  samudrds  cha  tasydmn  sumahdtmanah  \ 
iddri-dmtpa-samudrai  cha  mjyotir  loka-sangrahah  \  tasminn  ande  'hhavad 
vipra  sa-devdsura-mdnushah  |  vdri-vahny-anildha^ais  tato  bhutddina 
vahih  I  vritam  daiagtmavr  andam  hhutddir  mahatd  tathd  |  avyahtendvrito 
hrahmama  taih  sarvaih  sahito  mahdn  \  ebhi/r  avaranair  andam  saptahhih 
prakritair  vritam  \  ndrikela-phalasyantar  vijam  vdkya-dalair  iva  \  jushan 
rajo-gunam  tatra  svayam  msveivaro  Sarih  |  Brahmd  Ihutvd  'sya  jagato 
visrishtau  sampravarttate  \ 

"  Ether,  air,  fire,  water  and  earth,  when  joined  in  order,  with  sound 
and  the  other  qualities  in  succession,  are  then  called  specific,  being 
soothing,  terrific,  or  stupefying,"  but  being  of  different  powers,  and 
separated  from  one  another,  they  could  not,  without  contact,  and  with- 
out being  combined  together,  produce  living  creatures.  [At  length] 
having  attained  to  mutual  conjunction,  heing  dependent  upon  each 
other,  having  a  tendency  to  amalgamation,  and  having  so  attained  an 

"  See  Wilson's  Sankhya  Karika,  pp.  119  ff.,  and  Vishnu  Pur.,  2nd  ed.,  toI.  i., 
p.  38  ff. 


42  MUNDANE  EGG  AS  DESCEIBED 

entire  unity, Рђћ ^being  presided  over  by  Purusha  (spirit)  and  favoured  by 
Pradhana  (matter),  these  principles,  commencing  with.  Mahat  (intellect), 
and  down  to  the  gross  elements  inclusive,  generate  an  egg.  Gradually 
augmented  from  the  elements,  smooth  like  a  bubble  of  -water,  that  vast 
egg,  resting  on  the  water,  was  the  material  and  appropriate  receptacle 
of  Vishnu  in  the  form  of  Brahma.  There,  undiscernible  in  his  essence, 
Vishnu,  the  lord  of  the  world,  himself  abode  in  a  discernible  shape,  in 
the  form  of  Brahma.  It  was  like  mount  Meru ;  the  mountains  were 
the  womb,  and  the  seas  were  the  uterine  fluids  of  that  vast  [production]. 
In  that  egg,  0  Brahman,  were  collected  the  worlds,  with  their  hills, 
continents,  and  oceans,  the  luminaries,  the  gods,  Asuras,  and  men. 
This  egg  was  enveloped  externally  by  water,  fire,  air,  ether,  and  the 
source  of  the  elements  {bhutddi,  i.e.  ahanhara)  increasing  in  tenfold 
progression;  and  in  the  same  way  'Ahankara'  was  invested  by  'Mahat'; 
and  Mahat  with  all  these  [aforesaid  principles]  was  surrounded  by  the 
indiscreet  principle  {Pradhana).  The  egg  is  enveloped  in  these  seven 
material  coverings,  as  the  seed  within  the  cocoa-nut  is  surrounded  by 
the  outward  husks.  Assuming  there  the  quality  of  passion  {rajas) 
Hari,  the  universal  lord,  himself  becoming  Brahma,  engages  in  the 
creation  of  this  world." 

The  Vishnu  Purana  does  not  connect  the  egg  any  further  with  the 
creation,  or  tell  us  how  it  became  divided,  etc.,  etc. 

The  Linga  Purana,  Part  i.,  3,  28  ff.,  gives  a  similar  description  of 
the  egg:  Mahadadi-viieshantah  hy  andam  utpadayanti  cha  \  jala-lud- 
huda-vat  tasmdt  avatirnah  Pitamahah  \  sa  eva  Ihagavan  Rudro  Vishmr 
visvagatah  prahhuh  \  tasminn  ande  tv  ime  lolcdh  antar  viivam,  idamjagat  \ 
andam  daSa-gunenaiva  nabhasa  vahyato  vritam  \  dMSas  chdvritas  iadvad 
ahanldrena  iahdajah  \  mahata  iahda-hetwr  vai  pradhdnendvritah  svayam  \ 
sa/ptdnddvarandny  dhus  tasydtmd  Kamaldsanah  \  koti-hoty-ayutdny  atra 
ohdnddni  hathitdni  tu  \  tatra  tatra  ehaturvalctrdh  Brahmdno  Harayo 
Bhmdh  I  srishtdh  pradhdnena  tadd  labdhvd  ^ambhostu  sannidhim  ityddi  \ 

"And  these  principles,  from  Mahat  to  the  gross  elements  inclusive, 
generate  an  egg,  like  a  bubble  of  water,  from  which  issued  the  Parent 
[of  the  universe],  who  was  the  same  as  divine  Eudra,  and  Vishnu,  the 
omnipresent  lord.  Within  that  egg  were  these  worlds, Рђћ this  entire  uni- 
verse. The  egg  was  externally  invested  with  a  tenfold  ether ;  in  like 
manner,  the  ether,  sprung  from  sound,  was  surrounded  by  'ahankara'; 


IN  THE  LINGA  AND  BHAGAVATA  P0RANAS.  43 

the  cause  of  sound  (flhanMra)  by  Mahat,  and  the  latter  itself  by  Pra- 
dhana.  These  men  call  the  seven  coverings  of  the  egg;  its  soul  is 
Kamalasana  (Brahma).  Here  ten  thousand  crores  of  crores  of  eggs 
are  declared  (to  exist),  in  which  four-faced  Brahmas,  Haris,  and  Bhavas 
(S'ivas)  were  created  by  Pradhana,  which  had  attained  to  proximity  with 
S'ambhu  (S'iva)." 

The  Bhagavata  Purana  has  the  following  passage  on  the  same  subject 
in  the  third  Book,  in  answer  to  an  inquiry  how  the  Prajapatis  created 
the  world: 

Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  20,  12  ff. Рђћ Maitreyah  uvacha  |  Daivena  durvUarkyma 
parenanimishena  oha  \  jataksholhad  Ihagavato  mahdn  asld  guna-traydt  \ 
13.  Rajah-pradhandd  mahaias  trilingo  daiva-chodildt  \  jdtah  sasarjja 
hhutddir  viyadadlni  panchaiah  |  14.  Tani  ehailiaiha&ah  srashtum  amm- 
arthani  Ihautilcam  I  samhatya  daiva-yogena  haimam  andam  avasrijan  \ 
15.  S<o  ' iayuktdldhi-salile  anda-kosho  niratmahah  \  sdgram.  vai  varslia- 
sakasram  anvmidtsit  tarn  iha/rah  \  16.  Tasya  nabher  abhut  padmam 
sahasrarhorudidMti  \  sarva-jlva-nihdyaulo  yatra  svayam  dbhut  Svarat  \ 
17.  So  'nuvMto  hhagavatd  yah  sete  salildsaye  \  lolca-samsthdm  yathd- 
purvam  nirmame  samsthaya  svayd  | 

"Maitreya  said: 

12.  "The  Great  principle  (Intelligence)  arose  from  the  three  qualities 
agitated  by  the  Divine  Being  in  consequence  of  an  inscrutable  destiny, 
supreme  and  ever  wakeful.  13.  Springing  from  the  Great  principle 
(in  which  the  quality  of  passion  prevailed,  and  which  was  impelled  by 
destiny),  the  source  of  Hhe  elements  {Ihutadi  or  ahanhdra),  characterized 
by  the  three  qualities  {gunas),  created  the  ether  and  other  principles, 
in  groups  of  five.  14.  These  principles  being  severally  unable  to 
create,  deposited,  when  united  by  the  action  of  destiny,  a  golden  egg 
formed  of  the  elements.  15.  This  egg-shell  lay  lifeless  on  the  waters 
of  the  ocean :  the  Lord  dwelt  in  it  for  a  complete  [period  of  a] 
thousand  years.  16.  From  his  navel  sprang  a  lotus  splendid  as  a 
thousand  suns,  the  abode  of  aU  living  things,  where  Svarat  (Brahma) 
himself  was  bom.  17.  He  penetrated  by  the  Divine  Being  who 
reposes  on  the  receptacle  of  waters,  constructed  as  before,  the  substance 
{samsthd)  of  the  worlds  with  his  own  substance." 

The  same  ideas  are  repeated  in  a  later  chapter  of  the  same  book : 

Bhag.  Pur.  iii.  26,  60  ff.:  Many  asamhatya  yadd  mahad-adini  sapta 


44     MUNDANE  EGG  ACCORDING  TO  THE  BHAGAVATA  PUEANA. 

vai  I  Mla-iarma-gunopeto  jagadadir  upavUat  \  51.  Tatas  tendnwoid- 
dhehhyo  [kshubhitebhyah,  Comm.J  yuktebhyo  'ndam  aehetanam  \  utthitam 
Pv/rusho  yasmad  vdatishthad  asau  Virat  \  52.  Etad  andam  vi&eshahhyam 
Icrama-vriddhair  dasottaraih  \  toyadibhih  parivritam  pradhanenavritair 
vahih  I  yatra  loka-vitdno  'yam  rvpam  Ihagavato  Ha/reh  \  53.  Hiran- 
mayad  anda-hoshad  utthdya  Balile-iaydt  \  tarn  dvisya  mahddevo  lahudhd 
nirhilkeda  Tcham  [ehhidram,  Comm.]  54.  Nirahhidyatasya  prathamam 
mukham  vdm  tato  'bhavad  ityddi  \ 

50.  "When  these  seven  principles,  Mahat  and  the  rest,  remained  un- 
combined,  the  [god  who  is  the]  source  of  the  universe  entered  into  them, 
united  with  time,  action,  and  the  qualities.  51.  Then  out  of  these 
principles  penetrated  by  him,  and  combined,  there  arose  a  lifeless  egg, 
from  which  sprang  Purusha,  viz.  that  Virat.  52.  This  egg,  named 
Vi^esha  (the  specific)  was  surrounded  by  water,  and  other  elements 
gradually  increasing  in  extent  by  a  tenfold  progression,  which  in  their 
turn  were  externally  invested  by  Pradhana.  In  this  egg  [was  formed] 
this  expanse  of  worlds,  which  is  the  form  of  the  divine  Hari.  53. 
Having  arisen  out  of  the  envelopment  of  this  golden  egg  reposing 
upon  the  water,  the  great  god,  pervading  it,  opened  up  many  apertures. 
54.  First  his  mouth  was  divided,  from  which  speech  issued,"  etc. 

The  same  process  is  also  described  in  the  second  book  of  the  same 
Purana,  sect.  5,  32  ff. ;  but  it  is  unnecessary  to  adduce  more  than  a 
verse  or  two  of  the  passage. 

34.  Varsha-puga-tahasrdnte  tad  andam  udahe^ayam  \  Tcdla-karma- 
svabhdva-stho  jlvo  'jlvam  ajlvayat  |  35.  Sa  eva  pwrmhas  tasmdd  andam 
nirhhidya  nirgatah  \  sahasrorv-angkri-hdhv-ahshah  sahasrdnana-iirshavan] 

34.  "  At  the  end  of  many  thousand  years,  the  Life  (Jiva)  residing 
in  time,  action,  and  nature,  gave  life  to  that  lifeless  egg  reposing  on  the 
water.  35.  Splitting  the  egg,  Purusha  issued  forth  with  a  thousand 
thighs,  feet,  arms,  eyes,  faces,  and  heads." 

The  same  subject  is  yet  again  referred  to  in  another  text  of  the  same 
work. 

Bhag.  Pur.  ii.  10,  10  f. :  Ftirmho  'nda&  vinirhhidfa  yadd  "dau  sa 
mnirgatah  I  dtmano  'yanam  anvichhann  apo  'srdkshich  ehhuekih  suchih  \ 
tdsv  avdtsU  svasrishfdm  sahaara-parivatswrdn  \  tena  JVdrdyano  ndma 
yad  dpah  punishodlhavah  { 

10.  "When,  splitting  the  egg,  Purusha  first  issued  from  it,  seeking 


BRAHMA'S  PASSIOK  FOR  HIS  DAUGHTER.  45 

a  receptacle  for  himself,  he  created  the  pure  waters,  himself  pure. 
11.  la  these  waters  created  by  himself  he  dwelt  a  thousand  years. 
Hence  he  is  named  Narayana,  because  the  waters  were  produced  from 
Purusha." 


The  story  about  Brahma's  incestuous  passion  for  his  own  daughter, 
which  is  sometimes  alluded  to  in  the  Puranas,  is  thus  noticed  in  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  1,  7,  4,1  ff.*' Рђћ Prajwjpatir  lia  vai  svam  duM- 
taram  abhidadhyau  divam  vd  ushasam  va  'mithuny  enaya  syani'  iti  tarn 
sambabhuva\  2.  Tad  vai  devandm  agah  asa  '  yah  iUhafk  svam  duhitaram 
asmdham  svasdram  karoti'  iti  \  3.  Te  ha  devdh  uchur  'yo  'yam  devah 
paiundm  ishte  Hisandham  vai  ayam  eharati  yah  ittham  svdm  duhitaram 
asmdkam  svasdram  karoti  vidhya  imam'  iti  \  tarn  Rud/ro  'Ihydyatya  vivyd- 
dha  tasya  sdmi  retah  prachaskanda  tathd  id  nunam  tad  dsa  \  4.  Tasmdd 
etad  rishind  'bhyanuktam  'pitd  yat  svdm  duhitaram  adhishkan  kshmaya 
retah  sanjagmano  nishinehad'  iti  tad  dgni-mdrutam  ity  uktham  tasmims 
tad  vydkhydyate  yathd  tad  devdhretah prdjanayan  \  teshdmy add  devandm 
krodho  vyaid  atha  Prajapatim  abhishajyams  tasya  tarn  salyam  nirakrin- 
tan  I  sa  vai  yajnah  eva  Prqfdpatih  \ 

"Prajapati  cast  his  eyes  upon  his  own  daughter,  either  the  Sky,  or 
the  Dawn,  [desiring]  'May  I  pair  with  her.'  So  [saying]  he  had 
intercourse  with  her.  2.  This  was  a  crime  in  the  eyes  of  the  gods, 
who  said :  '  [He  is  guilty]  who  acts  thus  to  his  own  daughter,  our 
sister.'  3.  The  gods  said :  '  This  god  who  rules  over  the  beasts,  com- 
mits a  transgression  in  that  he  acts  thus  to  his  own  daughter,  our  sister : 
pierce  him  through.'  Eudra  aimed  at,  and  pierced,  him.  Half  of  his 
seed  fell  to  the  ground.  So  it  happened.  4.  Accordingly  this  has 
been  said  by  the  rishi  (E.  V.  x.  61,  7),  '  when  the  father  embracing 
his  daughter,  uniting  with  her,  discharged  his  seed  on  the  earth,'  etc. 
This  is  a  hymn  addressed  to  Agni  and  the  Maruts ;  and  it  is  there 
related  in  what  manner  the  gods  generated  this  seed.  'When  the  anger 
of  the  gods  had  passed  away,  they  applied  remedies  to  Prajapati,  and 
cut  out  of  him  the  arrow.     Prajapati  is  sacrifice." 

The  following  is  the  context  of  the  passage  of  the  Eig-veda  referred 

82  See  the  passages  from  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  and  the  Matsya  Purana  on  the 
same  suhjeot,  with  the  remarks  subjoined,  in  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  107  ff. 


46  atJOTATION  FROM  THE  EIGVEDA,  x.  61. 

to  in  the  preceding  legend,  which,  refers  apparently  to  some  atmospheric 
phenomenon.  It  is  hard  to  say  what  gods  or  powers  of  nature  are 
denoted  by  the  father  and  the  daughter  respectively/'  and  the  passage 
is  obscure  and  difBcult  to  translate,  even  with  the  aid  of  Sayana's 
comment,  for  a  copy  of  which  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Miiller.  The 
4th  verse  is  addressed  to  the  A^vins.  The  commentator  regards 
verses  5-7  as  intended  to  show  how  "  Eudra  Prajapati  created  Eudra 
Vastoshpati  with  a  portion  of  himself:"  {Tatha  svamsena  hhagavan 
Eudrah  prajapatir  Vastoshpatim  Rudram  asrijat  tad  etad-adibhir  tisri- 
hhir  vadati.) 

R.  V.  X.  61,  4 :  Krishna  yadgoshu  armishu  sidad  divo  napata  AMna 
huve  iidm  \  vltam  me  yajnam  dgatam  me  annam  vmanvamsa  na  isham 
asmrita-dhru  \  5.  Prathishta  yasya  vlralcarmam  ishmd  anushthitam  nu 
naryyo  apauhat  \  punas  tad  avrihati  yat  kanayah  duhitur  ah  anubhritam 
anwrva  \  6.  Madhya  yat  kartvam  alhavad  dbhtlce  kdmam  krinvdne  pita/ri 
yvmatydm  |  mandnag  reto  jahatur  viyantd  sdnau  nishilcta&  suhritasya 
yonau^^  \  7.  Pita  yat  svdm  duhitaram  adhishhan  kshmayd  retah  sanjagmdno 
nishinchat  \  svddhyo  ajanayan  hrahma  devdh  vastoshpatim  vratapdm  nira- 


"  "When  the  dark  female  (night)  stands  among  the  tawny  cows  (rays 
of  the  dawn  ?),  I  invoke  you  twain,  Asvins,  sons  of  the  Sky.^*  Come 
eagerly  to  my  sacrifice,  come  to  my  oblation,  as  desiring  sustenance,  ye 
who  do  not  disappoint  my  longings.'"  5.  That  male,  whose  prolific 
virile  (organ)  was  extended,  now  withdrew  it,  after  it  had  been  sent 
fcrth.     Again  the  irresistible  [god]  draws  forth  that  which  had  been 

8'  In  S'atapatta  Brahmaua  ti.  1,  2,  1  ff.,  it  is  related  that  Prajapati,  being  desirous 
of  creating,  connected  himself  with  various  spouses,  or  associates,  for  this  purpose, 
first, Рђћ in  the  form  of,  or  by  means  of,  Agni, Рђћ with  the  Earth  [So  'gnirm  prithivim 
mithunaih  samabhmat) :  from  which  union  sprang  an  egg,  and  thence  Vayu ;  next, 
through  Vayu  he  united  himself  with  the  Air  (antarilcsha,  neuter),  and  again  an  egg 
was  produced,  and  thence  Aditya  (the  Sun) ;  thirdly,  through  Aditya  he  connected 
himself  with  Dyaus  (the  Sky) ;  fourthly,  fifthly,  sixthly,  and  seventhly,  through  his 
mind  (_manas)  with  Vach ;  the  result  of  which,  in  each  of  the  last  four  cases,  was  his 
own  pregnancy  [garbhl  ahhcmat). 

'*  The  same  phrase  occurs  in  R.  V.  iii.  29,  8. 

9'  See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  234  and  239. 

*'  Such  is  the  meaning  given  by  Professor  Eoth  to  asmrita-dhru  from  ar\-smritar^ 
-\-dhru,  "  not  suffering  what  I  have  desired  to  fall."  See  s.v.  2,  dhru.  Sayana  renders 
it,  asmrita-drohau  mayi  droham  asmarantau  \  "  forgetting  injury Рђћ forgetting  injury 
to  me." 


BRAHMA'S  PASSION  FOR  VACH.  47 

introduced  [into  the  womb  of]  his  youthful  daughter.  6.  [They  then 
did]  in  the  midst  that  which  was  to  be  done  at  their  contact,  when  the 
father  loved  the  youthful  damsel, Рђћ separating  from  each  other,  they 
discharged  a  little  seed  which  was  shed  on  the  surface,  on  the  place 
of  holy  ceremonies.  7.  When  the  father,  bent  on  impregnating  his 
own  daughter,  united  with  her,  discharged  his  seed  on  the  earth,  the 
benevolent  gods  generated  prayer,  they  fashioned  Vastoshpati,  the  pro- 
tector of  sacred  rites." 

The  same  story  is  repeated  in  the  later  literature,  as  in  the  Bhagavata 
Purana  iii.  12,  28  if.,  only  that  Vaoh  is  the  daughter  of  Brahma  who  is 
there  spoken  of :  Vacham  duhitaram  tanvim  Svayambhur  hmatim  manah  \ 
akamam  ehakame  Icshattah  sahdmah  iti  nah  irutam  |  29.  Tarn  adharme 
hrita-matim  viloJcya  pitaram  sutah  \  Mwnohi-mukhyah  nmnayo  viiram- 
hhat  pratyabodhayan  \  30.  Naitat  pwrvaih  Icritamtvad  ye  na  harishyanti 
chapare  \  yas  tvafh  duhitaram  gaehher  anigrihyangajam  prahhuh  \  31. 
Tejtyasam  api  hy  etad  na  suilokyam  jagadguro  \  yad  vrittam  anutishthan 
vai  lohah  hhemdya  karate  |  32.  Tasmai  namo  hhagavate  ya  idam  svena 
rochishd  ,  atmastham  vyaryofydmdm  sa  dharmam  patum  arhati  |  33.  Sa 
ittham  grinatah  putran  puro  druJitvd  prajapatm  \  prajapati-patis  tan- 
vam  tatyaja  vriditas  tadd  |  tdih  dUa  jagrihur  ghoram  mharam  yad  vidus 
tamah  \ 

"We  have  heard,  0  Kshatriya,  that  Svayamhhu  (Brahma)  had  a 
passion  for  Vach,  his  slender  and  enchanting  daughter,  who  had  no 
passion  for  him.  The  Munis,  his  sons,  headed  by  Mariohi,  seeing  their 
father  bent  upon  wickedness,  admonished  him  with  affection :  '  This 
is  such  a  thing  as  has  never  been  done  by  those  before  you,  nor  wiU 
those  after  you  do  it, Рђћ ^that  you,  being  the  lord,  should  sexually  ap- 
proach your  daughter,  not  restraining  your  passion.  This,  0  preceptor 
of  the  world,  is  not  a  laudable  deed  even  in  glorious  personages, 
through  imitation  of  whose  actions  men  attain  felicity.  Glory  to  that 
divine  being  (Vishnu)  who  by  his  own  lustre  revealed  this  [universe] 
Рќаwhich  abides  in  himself, Рђћ he  must  maintain  righteousness.'  Seeing 
his  sons,  the  Prajapatis,  thus  speaking  before  him,  the  lord  of  the 
Prajapatis  (Brahma)  was  ashamed,  and  abandoned  his  body.  This 
dreadful  body  the  regions  received,  and  it  is  known  as  foggy  darkness." 

This  legend  of  Brahma  and  his  daughter,  though,  as  appears  from  the 
passage  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  it  has  occasioned  scandal  among 


48  LICENTIOUS  ACTS  OF  THE  AS'VINS,  INDEA,  ETC. 

the  Indian  writers  from  an  early  period,  is  not  to  be  regarded  in 
the  same  ligM  as  many  other  stories  regarding  the  licentious  actions 
of  some  of  the  other  gods.  The  production  of  a  female  and  her  con- 
junction with  the  male  out  of  whom  she  was  formed,  is  regarded  in 
Manu  i.  32,  as  one  of  the  necessary  stages  in  the  cosmogonic  process 
(and  finds  its  near  parallel  in  the  book  of  Genesis) :  dvidhd  kritva 
"tmano  deham  arddhena  purusho  'hhavat  \  arddhena  narl  tasydm  sa 
Virdjam  asrijat  prabhuh  \  "  Dividing  his  own  body  into  two,  [Brahma] 
became  with  the  half  a  man,  and  with  the  half  a  woman;  and  in 
her  he  created  (i.e.  according  to  the  commentator,  begot)"  Yiraj." 
Compare  also  the  passage  from  the  Vishnu  Purana  i.  7,  12  flf.  quoted 
in  the  .first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  65,  qnd  the  passage  from  the 
S'atap.  Brahmana  cited  in  the  same  vol.,  p.  25  f.*^  On  the  injustice 
of  ascribing  an  immoral  character  to  the  Hindu  writings,  or  to  the 
deities  whom  they  describe,  on  the  ground  of  such  legends  as  the  one 
before  us,  or  of  the  dialogue  between  Tama  and  Tami  in  the  10th 
hymn  of  the  tenth  Mandala  of  the  Rig-veda,  see  some  instructive 
remarks  by  Prof.  Eoth  in  the  third  vol.  of  the  Journal  of  the  American 
Oriental  Society,  pp.  332-337. 

The  case  is  different,  however,  with  another  class  of  stories,  which 
are  frequently  to  be  met  with  in  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas,  in  which 
various  adulterous  amours,  of  the  Asvins,  Indra,  Varuna,  and  Krishna, 
are  described. Рђћ See  the  passages  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv. 
1,  5,  Iff.;  the  Mahabharata,  Vanaparva,  v.  10,  316  ff.,  quoted  or 
abstracted  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  250  ff.,  and  in  Indische 
Studien,  i.  198;  the  Ramayanai.  48,  16  ff.  (Schlegel's  and  Bombay  ed., 
Gorresio's  ed.  i.  49) ;  and  the  passages  quoted  from  the  Mbh.  in  the 
first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  310,  466  (with  note),  and  467.  In  all 
these  cases  a  licentious  character  is  evidently  attributed  to  the  gods.Рёб 

"  Maithuna-dharmena  Virat-sanjnam  purttshmn  nirmitavan  \ 
89  "  The  Matsya  P.  has  a  little  aUegory  of  its  own  on  the  subject  of  Brahma's 
intercourse  with  S'atarupa;  for  it  explains  the  former  to  mean  the  Vedas,  and  the 
latter  the  Savitrl,  or  holy  prayer,  which  is  their  chief  text ;  and  in  their  cohabitation 
there  is  therefore  no  evil :  Veda-raHh  smrito  Brahma  Savitri  tad-adhiahthita  \  tas- 
man  na  haschid  doshah  syat  Savitrl-gamane  vibhoh  |  " Рђћ Wilson's  Vishnu  Pur.,  2nd 
ed.,  vol.  i.,  p.  108,  note.     See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  112. 

Рёб  Kumarila  Bhatta,  however,  attempts  to  explain  allegorically  not  only  the  dal- 
liance of  Brahma  with  his  own  daughter,  but  also  the  adultery  of  Indra  with 
Ahalya. Рђћ See  the  passage  quoted  from  him  and  translated  in  Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk. 


BHAGAVATA'S  APOLOGY  FOR  KRISHNA'S  ADULTERY.         49 

In  the  case  of  Krishna  the  following  is  the  reasoning  by  which  the 
author  of  the  Bhagavata  Parana  attempts  to  quiet  the  scruples  of 
some  of  the  purer-minded  among  the  devotees  of  the  pastoral  deity, 
and  to  vindicate  his  morality,  by  seeking  to  impart  a  mystic  character 
to  those  loose  adventures  which  had  been  the  occasion  of  scandal  to 
them,  though,  no  doubt,  well  suited  to  the  taste  of  his  coarser  wor- 
shippers. 

Bhag.  Pur.,  x.  33,  27  ff. Рђћ Raja  uvacha  \  samsthdpanaya  dharmasya 
praiamayetarasya  cha  \  avatirno  hi  hhavagan  afiikena  jagaAikva/rah  \  28. 
Sa  kathafh  dharma-setunafh  vahtd  kmrtd  'bhzraksMtd  \  pratipam  aeharad 
hrahman  paraddrahhimarkanam  \  29.  Aptakamo  Yadu-patih  kritavdn 
vai  jugvpsitam  \  Tdm-aVhiprayah  etam  nah  samiaya'^  chhindhi  suvrata  \ 
S'riS'ukah  uvdcha  |  30.  Dharma-vyatikramo  drishtah  livwrdndnoha 
sahasam  \  tejtyasdm  na  doshdya  vahneh  sarvabhvjo  yathd  \  31.  Naitat 
samdcha/rej  jdtu  manasd  'pi  hy  amsvarah  \  mnaiyaty  doharan  maudhydd 
yathd  'rudro  'Idhijam  visham  |  32.  livardndfh  vaohah  Batyafh  taihaivd- 
charitam  kvaohit  \  teshdm  yat  sva-vaoho  yuhtam  huddhimdms  tat  samd- 
okaret  \  33.  ITu^aldcharitenaishdm  iha  svdrtho  na  vidyate  |  viparyayena 
va  'nartho  mrahcmkdrindm  prdbho  \  34.  Kimutdkhila-sattvdndm  tiryan- 
ma/rtya-divaukasam  \  iiitu┬Д  cheSitdvydndm  kusalaku^aldnvayah  \  35.  Yat 
pdda-pank(ya-pardga-nisheva-triptdh  yoga-pralhdva-vidhutdhhila-kwrma- 
handhdh  |  svairam  charanti  munayo  'pina  nahyamdnds  tasyeohhayd  "tta- 
vapushah  kutah  eva  handhah  \  36.  Qoplndm  tat-patinancha  sa/rveshdm  eva 
dehindm  \  yo  'ntai  eharati  so  ' dhyakshah  kndaneneha  deha-hhdh  \  37. 
Anugrahdya  Ihutdnam  manusham  deham  dsritah  |  Ihajate  tadriSlk 
kriddh  yah  irutvd  tat-paro  ihavet  \  38.  Nasuyan  khalu  Krishndya 
mohitds  tasya  mdyayd  \  manyamdndh  sva-pwrhastJidn  svdn  svdn  ddrdn 
Vrajaukmah  \  39.  Brahma-rdtre  wpavritte  Vdsudevdnumoditdh  \  ani- 
chhawtyo  yayv/r  gopyah  sva-grihdn  Ihagwoat-priydh '"'  | 


Lit.,  pp.  529  f.  In  the  Eamayana  i.  49  Indra  tells  the  gods  that  his  adulterous  act 
had  tended  to  their  benefit,  by  exciting  the  wrath  of  Gautama  and  so  neutralizing  the 
fruit  of  those  austerities  of  the  saint  which  threatened  danger  to  the  celestials. 
On  this  the  commentator  in  the  Bombay  ed.  remarks :  JDharma-dhurandharasyapi 
S'akrasya  adharme  prcwrittau  vijam  dars'ayitum  aha  |  "What  follows  is  said  to 
show  what  was  the  ground  of  Indra's  practising  unrighteousness,  though  he  is  the 
supporter  of  righteousness." 

s"  This  passage  is  partly  quoted  in  my  Mata-pariksha,  published  in  Calcutta  in 
1852,  p.  87 ;  and  in  Prof.  Banerjea's  Dialogues,  p.  383  f. 


50         BHAGAVATA'S  APOLOGY  FOR  KRISHNA'S  ADULTEET, 

"  The  king  said :  27.  The  divine  lord  of  the  world  became  partially  " 
incarnate  for  the  establishment  of  virtue,  and  the  repression  of  its 
opposite.     28.  How  did  he,  the  expounder,  author,  and  guardian  of  the 
bulwarks  of  righteousness,  practise  its  contrary,  the  corruption  of  other 
men's   wives?     29.  "With  what  object   did  the  lord  of  the  Tadus 
(Krishna)  perpetrate  what  was  blameable?    Eesolve,  devout  saint, 
this  our  doubt.     S'uka  said :  30.  The  transgression  of  virtue,  and  the 
daring  acts  which  are  witnessed  in  superior  beings,  must  not  be 
charged  as  faults  to  those  glorious  persons,  as  no  blame  is  imputed  to 
fire,  which  consumes  fuel  of  every  description.     31.  Let  no  one  other 
than  a  superior  being  ever  even  in  thought  practise  the  same :  any 
one  who,  through  folly,  does  so,  perishes,  like  any  one  not  a  Eudra 
[drinking]  the  poison  produced  from  the  ocean.''     32.  The  word  of 
superior  beings  is  true,  and  so  also  their  conduct  is  sometimes  [correct] : 
let  a  wise  man  observe  their  command,  which  is  right.     33.  These 
beings,  0  king,  who  are  beyond  the  reach  of  personal  feelings,  have  no 
interest  in  good  deeds  done  in  this  world,  nor  do  they  incur  any  detri- 
ment from  the  contrary.     34.  How  much  less  can  there  be  any  relation 
of  good  or  evil  between  the  lord  of  all  beings,  brute,  mortal,  and  divine, 
and  the  creatures  over  whom  he  rules  ?  (i.e.  since  he  is  entirely  beyond 
the  sphere  of  virtue  and  vice,  how  can  any  of  his  actions  partake  of  the 
nature  of  either  ?)     35.  Since  Munis,  who  are  satisfied  by  worshipping 
the  pollen  from  the  lotus  of  his  feet,  and  by  the  force  of  abstraction 
have  shaken  off  all  the  fetters  of  works, Рђћ since  even  they  are  un- 
controlled,  and  act  as  they  please,  how  can  there  be  any  restraint 
upon  him  (the  Supreme  Deity)  when  he  has  voluntarily  assumed  a 
body?     36.  He  who  moves  within  the  gopis  (milkmen's  wives)  and 
their  husbands,  and  all  embodied  beings,  is  their  ruler,  who  only  in 
sport  assumed  a  body  upon  earth.     37.  Taking  a  human  form  out  of 
benevolence  to  creatures,  he  engages  in  sports  such  as  that  those  who 
hear  of  them  may  become  devoted  to  himself.     38.  The  [male]  in- 
habitants of  Vraja  harboured  no  ill-will  to  Krishna,  since,  deluded 

'1  Comp.  Mbh.i.  2785.  Yas  tu  Ndrayano  nama  deva-devah  sanatanah  |  tasyamso 
manusheshv  asJd  Vasudevah  pratapavan  \  See  further  passages  to  be  quoted  in 
chapter  ii.,  sect,  v.,  below. 

8*  This  refers  to  the  poison  drunk  by  S'iva  at  the  churning  of  the  ocean.  See 
Eamayana  i.  45,  26,  ed.  Schlegel,  and  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  note  p.  78, (1st  ed.). 
The  passage  of  the  Eamayana  will  be  quoted  further  in  chap,  iii.,  sec.  vi.  ; 


AND  S'EiDHAEA'S  EXPLANATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE.  51 

by  his  illusion,  they  each  imagined  that  his  own  wife  was  by  his  side. 
39.  When  Brahma's  night  had  arrived,  the  gopis,  beloved  and  glad- 
dened by  Krishna,  departed  unwillingly  to  their  own  homes." 

This  passage  is  followed  (v.  40)  by  an  assurance  on  the  part  of  the 
author  of  the  Purana,  that  the  person  who  listens  with  faith  to  the 
narrative  of  Krishna's  sports  with  the  cowherds'  wives,  and  who  re- 
peats it  to  others,  shall  attain  to  strong  devotion  to  that  deity,  and  shall 
speedily  be  freed  from  love,  that  disease  of  the  heart  [vik'nd.ita'ih  Vraj,a- 
vadhulhir  idam  cha  Vishnoh  iraddhdwoito  'nu^rinuyad  atha  vwrmyed  yah  1 
Ihaldim  pwram  bhagmati  pratildbhya  Mmam  hrid-rogam  aiv  apahinoty 
achirem  dhtrah).  A  remarkable  instance  of  homoeopathic  cure,  certainly ! 

I  quote  the  remarks  of  the  commentator,  S'ridhara  Svamin,  on  verses 
30  ff.  of  this  passage :  30.  Farame^vare  haimutika-nyayena  parihwrtuih 
samanyato  mahatam  vrittam  aha  '  dharmavyatikramah '  iti  \  '  sdha- 
sancha  drishtam'  Prajapatlndra-Soma-Vihdmitrddtnam  \  tachcha  teshdfh 
tejamnam  doshdya  na  hhavatUi  \  31.  TarM  ' yad yad dcharatiireshthah' 
iti  nyayena  anyo  'pi kurydd  ity  diankya  aha  '  naitad'  iti  \  '  anUvaro'  dehddi- 
para-tantro  yathd  R%dra-vyatiriMo  visham  doharan  Ihakshayan  \  32.  Ka- 
thafh  tarhi  saddchdrasya  prdmdnyam  atah  dha  '  Uvwrdnam '  iti  \  teahdm 
vachah  satyam  atas  tad-uktam  dehared  eva  \  doharitafh  kvaehit  satyam 
atah  '  sva-vaoho  yuktam '  teshdm  vachasd  yad  uktam  aviruddham  tat  tad 
eva  dcha/ret  |  33.  Nanu  tarhi  te  'pi  Mm  evam  sdhasam  dcha/ranti  tatra  dha 
'  kusale '  ti  |  prdrabdha-karma-kshapana-mdtram  eva  tesham  krityam  na 
anyad  ity  arthah]  34.  Prastutam  aha  'kimuta'  iti\  ' kuhldhuialdnvayo' 
na  vidyate  iti  kirn  punar  vaktavyam  ity  arthah  \  35.  Mad  eva,  sphuti- 
haroti  \  yasya  pdda-pankaj,a-pardga%ya  nishevan^na  triptdh  yadva  yasya 
pdda-pankaja-parage  nishevd  yeshdm  te  tatha  te  oha  te  triptdhha  iti 
bhaktdh  ity  arthah  |  tathd  jndninai  oha  na  nahyamdnah  bandhanam 
aprdpnuvantah  \  pa/ra-ddratvam  gopindm  angtkritya  parihritam  \  36. 
Iddmm  bhaga/oatah  sarvdntarydminah  para-dara-sevd  ndma  na  kdchid 
ity  dha  'gopindm'  iti  \  'yo  'ntai  charaty  adhyahsho'  buddhy-ddi-sdkshi 
sa  eva  kridanena  dehabhdk  na  tv  asmad-ddi-tulyo  yena  doshah  sydd  iti  \ 
37.  Nanv  .evam  ehed  dptakdmasya  nindite  kutah  pravrittir  ity  dha 
'anugrahdya'  iti  \  iringdra-rasdkriahta-ohetaso  'ti-hahir-mukhdn  api 
sva-pardn  kartum  iti  bhdvah  |  38.  Nam  anye  'pi  bhinndchardh  &va^ 
cheshtitam  evam  eva  iti  vadanti  tatrdha  'ndsuyann'  iti  |  evambhu- 
taiSvarydbhdve  tathd  kurvantah  pdpdh  jneydh  iti  bhdvah  \ 


52  S'RIDHAEA'S  COMMENT  ON  THE  BHAGAVATA. 

"In  order  to  refute  [the  charge  of  immorality]  in  regard  to  the 
Supreme  Deity,  by  the  d  fortiori  argument,  the  author  states  generally 
the  conduct  of  great  persons  in  the  words  'the  transgression,'  etc.  The 
'daring  acts  witnessed'  are  those  of  Prajapati,  Indra,  Soma,  Vi^va- 
mitra,  and  others;  and  these  are  not  to  be  charged  to  them  as  faults. 
31.  Having  intimated  the  doubt  that  according  to  the  reasoning 
'  whatever  an  eminent  person  does,'  "  etc.,  etc.,  there  is  a  danger  that 
another  person  may  do  the  like, Рђћ he  says,  '  Let  no  one  do  the  same,' 
etc. ;  '  no  one  other  than  a  superior  being,'  i.e.  no  one  who  is  in 
subjection  to  a  body,  etc. ;  '  as  any  one  separate  from  Rudra  using,' 
swallowing,  '  poison.'  32.  "Whence,  then,  is  the  authority  for  pure 
conduct  ?  He  tells  us  in  the  words,  '  of  superior  beings,'  etc.  Their 
word  is  true;  therefore  let  their  declarations  be  followed.  Their 
conduct  is  [only]  sometimes  true  [correct]:  therefore,  let  'their  correct 
words,'  viz.,  that,  not  being  contrary  [to  right],  which  is  declared 
by  their  word,  be  followed.  33.  In  answer  to  the  question  why  these 
superior  beings  also  thus  practise  'daring  acts,'  he  states,  in  the  words 
'good  deeds,'  etc.,  that  they  have  no  other  concern  whatever  than 
merely  to  nullify  [the  consequences  of]  their  commenced  works  [so 
as  to  prevent  these  works  from  interfering  with  their  final  liberation]. 
34.  He  arrives  at  his  main  subject  in  the  words  'how  much  less,'  etc. : 
i.e.  [in  the  case  of  the  supreme  Vishnu]  there  is  no  such  relation 
of  good  or  evil :  What  more  is  to  be  said  ?  35.  He  makes  this  clear. 
[The  first  words  here  mean  either]  '  they  who  are  satisfied  by  wor- 
shipping the  pollen  of  the  lotus  of  his  feet';  or  'they  who  are  wor- 
shippers of  the  pollen  of  the  lotus  of  his  feet,  and  are  also  satisfied,  i.e. 
devotees ' ;  further,  who  are  wise  men,  not  bound, Рђћ finding  no  restraint. 
The  objection  that  the  gopis  were  other  men's  wives  is  [here]  admitted, 
and  obviated.  36.  Now  he  [further]  asserts,  in  the  words  '  the  gopIs,' 
that  in  the  case  of  the  divine,  all-pervading,  Being  there  is  no  such 
thing  as  an  attachment  to  other  men's  wives  [since  he  pervades,  and 
is  one  with,  everything].  It  is  '  he  who  moves  within,  the  ruler,'  the 
witness  of  the  understanding,  etc.,  who  in  sport  takes  a  body ;  but  he 
does  not  resemble  such  persons  as  ourselves,  so  that  he  should  be  in 
fault.     37.  The  author  now,  in  the  words  'out  of  benevolence,'  answers 

53  This  text,  from  the  Bhagavad  GIta,  will  be  quoted  below. 


SOTEEIOE  MORALITY  OP  THE  BHAGAVAD  GIT  A.  53 

the  questiou  why,  if  the  case  be  so,  the  Being  who  has  no  want  un- 
satisfied should  engage  in  acts  which  have  been  censured :  the  purport 
is,  that  he  seeks  to  incline  to  himself  even  such  persons  as  are  attracted 
by  sensual  love,  and  greatly  devoted  to  external  things."  38.  But  do 
not  others  of  a  very  different  mode  of  life  represent  their  own  conduct 
as  of  this  very  description  ?  In  reference  to  this  he  says  '  they  har- 
boured no  ill-will,'  etc.  The  drift  is,  that  those  who  without  such 
divine  character  act  in  the  same  way  are  to  be  considered  sinners." 

The  following  is  the  passage  referred  to  by  the  commentator  in  his 
annotation  on  verse  31.  It  will  be  seen  that  it  inculcates  a  doctrine 
diametrically  opposed  to  that  urged  in  the  earlier  part,  at  least,  of  the 
argument  by  which  the  author  of  the  Bhagavata  endeavours  to  justify 
the  adulteries  of  Krishna,  and  perfectly  coincident  with  the  tenor 
of  the  condemnation  which  the  same  author  (who  is  inconsistent  with 
himself)  had,  in  an  earlier  part  of  his  work,  pronounced  on  Brahma 
by  the  mouth  of  his  sons  (above,  p.  47) : 

Bhagavad  Gita,  iii.  20  ff. Рђћ Kmrmanaiva  hi  safhsiddham  dsthitdh  Jana- 
kadayah  \  loka-mngraham  evapi  sampasyan  hartum  arhasi  \  21.  Yad 
yad  aoharati  ireshthas  tat  tad  evetaro  janah  \  sa  yat  pramamm  kurute 
lokas  tad  anvwwrtate  \  22.  Na  me  Farthasti  ka/rtavyafh  trishu  lokeshu 
hinehana  \  nanavaptam  emaptavyam  varie  eva  eha  kwrmani  \  23.  Yadi 
ky  aham  na  varteyam  j'atu  karmany  atandritah  \  mama  vartmanu- 
vartante  manusJiyah  Partha  sarvaiah  \  24.  ZTisideyur  ime  lohah  na 
kuryam  karma  ched  aham  \  sankarasya  cha  ka/rtd  syam  upahanyam  imah 
prajah  \  25.  Saktah  karmany  avidvafhso  yatha  kurvanti  Bharata  || 
kuryad  vidvdms  tathd  'saktai  chikirshv/r  loka-sangraham  \  26.  Na 
huddhi-hhedam  janayed  cyndndm  karma-sangindm  \joshayet  sarva-kar- 
mdni  vidvdn  yuktah  samdcharam  \ 

"  20.  For  it  was  by  works  that  Janata  and  other  sages  attained  per- 
fection.    You  also  ought  to  act,  seeking  the  edification  of  mankind.'* 

21.  "Whatever  a  person  of  eminence  practises,  that  the  rest  of  men 
also  [do].     Whatever  authoritative  example  he  sets,  the  people  follow. 

22.  There  is  nothing  in  the  three  worlds,  son  of  Pritha,  which  I  have 

9*  I  find  this  sense  of  the  word  bahirmukha  in  Molesworth's  Marathi  Diotionarj. 

^^  Compare  Eaghuvams'a  iii.  46 pathah  iueJier  dariayitarah  idvarah  malt- 

masain  adadate  na  paddhatim  \  "  Our  lords,  who  point  out  to  us  the  pure  way,  do 
not  [themselves]  pursue  an  unclean  path." 


54  STORIES  FROM  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA 

to  do,  nor  anytking  unattained  wliich  I  have  to  attain ;  and  yet  I 
continue  in  action.  23.  If  I  were  not  to  continue  diligently  engaged 
in  works,  0  son  of  Pritha,  men  would  follow  my  course  in  every 
respect.  24.  These  people  would  he  ruined  if  I  did  not  practise 
works ;  and  I  should  occasion  a  confusion  of  castes :  I  should  destroy 
these  creatures.  25.  In  the  same  way  as  the  iguorant,  who  are 
attached  to  works,  perform  them,  so  let  the  wise  man  perform  them, 
without  attachment,  seeking  the  edification  of  mankind.  26.  Let  not 
the  wise  man  create  a  distraction  of  mind  among  ignorant  persons  who 
are  attached  to  works :  let  him  fulfil  all  ceremonies  with  alacrity, 
while  he  practises  them  with  abstracted  mind." 


I  quote  here  some  other  interesting  stories  which  I  have  observed 
in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  regarding  Prajapati,  the  creation  of  the 
gods,  and  the  manner  in  which  they  acquired  immortality,  and  became 
superior  to  the  Asuras,  or  to  other  deities.  (Compare  the  fifth  volume 
of  this  work,  pp.  12-16.)  The  first  extracts  teU  how  Prajapati  him  self 
became  immortal,  and  what  difficulties  he  encountered  in  the  work  of 
creation. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  1,  3,  1  (p.  761  ff.) Рђћ Prajdpatih  prajah  asri- 
jata  I  sa  Urddhvehhyah  eva  pranebhyo  devan  ^  asrijata  ye  'vanchah  prands 
tehhyo  martydh  prajah  \  atha  urdhvam  eva  mrityum  prafdbhyo  'ttaram 
asrijata  \  2.  Tasya  ha  Prajdpater  ardham  eva  martyam  dsld  ardham 
nniritam  \  tad  yad  asya  martyam  dslt  tena  mrityor  alihhet  \  sa  vihhyad 
imam  pravi^ad  dvayam  hhutvd  mriohcha  dpascha  |  3.  Sa  mrityur  devan 
abravtt  '  kva  nu  so  'bhud  yo  no  'srishta'  iti  |  '  tvad  bibhyad  imam  prd- 
vikshad'  iti  (  so  'bravld  '  tarn  vai  anvichhdma  tarn  sambhardma  na  vai  aham 
tarn  himsishydmi''  iti  \  tarn  devah  asydh  adhi  samabharan  \  yad  asya  apsv 
dsit  tah  apah  samabharann  atha  yad  asydm  tarn  mridam  \  tad  ubhayam 
sambhritya  mridancha  apaicha  ishtakam  akunam  tasmdd  etad  ubhayam 

┬╗6  The  gods  are  sometimes  mentioned  in  the  Rig-veda  (see  i.  34,  11 ;  i.  45,  2)  as 
being  thirty-three  in  number.  Here  is  an  enumeration  of  them  in  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  iv.  5,  7,  2:  Ashtau  Vaiavah  ehadala  Budrah  dvadasa  Adityah  ime  eva 
dyava-prithivi  trayastrimsyau  \  traymtrimiad  vai  devnh  Frajapatis  chatustrimsah  ] 
"  There  are  eight  Vasus,  eleven  Rudras,  twelve  Adityas,  and  these  two,  heaven  and 
earth  are  the  [thirty-second  and]  thirty-third.  There  are  thirty-three  gods,  and 
Prajapati  is  the  thirty-fourth." 


TELLING  HOW  PEAJAPATI  BECAME  IMMORTAL.  55 

ishtdka  bhavati  mrichcha  apahha  \  4.  Tad  etdh  vai  asya  tah  paneha 
martyas  tanvah  asan  loma  tvan  mamsam,  asthi  majja,  atha  etdh  amritah 

mano  vah  pranak  ehakshuh  srotram  \     6.  Te  devah  ahrtwann 

'  amritam  imafh  harcmama '  iti  \  tasya  etahhydm  amritdhhyam,  tanuhhydm 
etam  martydm  tanum parigrihya  amritdm  akwvann  ityddi  ....  |  7. 
tato  vai  Prajdpatir  amrito  'hhavat  .  .  .  |  .  .  . 

X.  1,  4,  1. Рђћ  Ubhayaih  ha  etad  agre  Frajdpatir  dsa  mariya^  chaiva 
amritancha  \  tasya  prdndh  eva  amritah  dsuh  ka/rlram  ma/rtyam  \  sa  etena 
karmand  etayd  duritd  eJcadha  'j'aram  amritam  dtmanam  akwruta  \ 

"  Prajapati  produced  creatures.  Prom  his  upper  breaths  he  formed 
the  gods,  and  from  his  lo-vrer  breaths  mortal  creatures.  After  the  crea- 
tures he  created  Death  the  devourer.  2.  Of  this  Prajapati,  half  was 
mortal,  and  half  immortal.  With  that  part  of  him  "which  was  mortal, 
he  was  afraid  of  Death."  Fearing,  he  entered  this  [earth],  having  h,e- 
come  two  things,  earth  and  water.  3.  Death  said  to  the  gods,  '  what 
has  become  of  him  who  created  us?  '  [They  answered],  '  fearing  you, 
he  has  entered  this  earth.'  Death  said,  '  let  us  search  for,  and  collect 
him.  I  win  not  kill  him.'  The  gods  then  collected  him  on  this  [earth]. 
The  part  of  him  which  was  in  the  waters,  they  collected  those  waters, 
and ┬Ф the  part  which  was  in  this  [earth],  they  [collected]  that  earth. 
Having  collected  both  of  these,  the  earth  and  the  waters,  they  made  a 
brick.  Hence  these  two  things  make  a  brick,  viz.  earth  and  water. 
4.  Then  these  five  parts  of  him  were  mortal,  hair,  skin,  flesh,  bone,  and 
marrow;  and  these  immortal,  mind,  voice,  breath,  eye,  ear.  .... 
6.  The  gods  said,  '  let  us  make  him  immortal.'  So  [saying],  having 
surrounded  this  mortal  part  with  these  immortal  parts,  they  made  it 
immortal thence  Prajapati  became  immortal " 

X.  1,  4,  1. Рђћ "Prajapati  was  formerly  both  of  these  two  things, 
mortal  and  immortal.  His  breaths  were  immortal,  and  his  body 
mortal.  By  this  rite,  by  this  ceremonial,  he  made  himself  uniformly 
undecaying  and  immortal." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana  x.  4,  4,  1  :  Prcy'apatim  vai  prajdh  srijamdnam 
pdpmd  mritywr  abhipwrijagh&na  \  sa  tapo  Hapyata  sahasrarh  samvatsaran 
pdpmdnam  vijihasann  ityddi  \  "  Misery,  death,  smote  Prajapati  when 

s'  Comp.  Taitt.Sanh.  ii.  3,  2,  1.  Demh  vai  mrityor  aUhhayuh,  te  Prajapatim 
upadhman  \  "The  gods  were  afraid  of  Death:  they  hastened  to  Prajapati,"  etc. 
See  also  S'atap.  Br.  x.  4,  2,  2,  quoted  in  the  iirst  Yolume  of  this  work,  p.  69. 


56  EXTRACTS  FROM  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA 

he  was  creating  living  beings.  He  performed  austerity  for  a  thousand 
years,  to  get  free  from  misery."  See  the  passages  to  a  similar  effect, 
quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  68  ff.,  and  S'atap.  Br. 
xi.  4,  3,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume,  p.  349 ;  and  further  the  same 
Brahmana,  iv.  6,  3,  1  :  Prajapater  ha  vai  prajah  sasrydnasya  parvani 
visasramsuh  :  "As  Prajapati  was  creating  living  beings,  his  joints 
became  relaxed,"  etc. 

The  next  extracts  tell  how  the  gods  acquired  immortality ;  and  the 
first  of  them  also  informs  us  of  a  means  whereby  men  may  become 
immortal,  after  the  decay  of  their  bodie^.'^ 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  x.  4,  3,  1  ff.  (p.  787) :  Esha  vai  mrityur  yat 
samvatsarah  |  Esha  hi  mwrtyanam  aho-ratrabhyam  ayuh  kshinoty  atJta 
mriyante  tasmdd  eiha  eva  mrityuh  \  sa  yo  ha  etam  mrityum  samvaUaram 
veda  na  ha  asya  esha  pura  jaraso  'ho-ratralhyam,  ayuh  hshinoti  sarvam 
ha  eva  ayur  eti  \  2.  Esha  eva  antakah  \  esha  hi  martyandm-  aho-ratra- 
Ihyam  ayusho  'ntam  gaohhaty^^  atha  mriyante  \  tasmdd  esha  eva  antakah  \ 
sa  yo  ha  etam  antakam  mrityum  samvatsaram  veda  na  ha  asya  esha  pura 
jaraso  'ho-ratralhydm  ayusho  'ntam  gachhati  sa/rvam  ha  eva  ayur  eti  | 

3.  Te  devdh  etasmdd  antahdd  mrityoh  samvatswrdt  Prajapater  hihhaydn- 
chakrur  '  yad  vai  no  'yam  aho-rdtralhyam  ayusho  'ntam  na  gachhed '  iti  | 

4.  Te  etan  yajnakratums  tenire  'gnihotraih  daria-purnamdsau  chdturmds- 
ydni  paiulandham  saumyam  adhvaram  \  te  etair  yajna-hratubhir  yaja- 
mdndh  na  amritatvam  anaiire  |  5.  Te  ha  apy  Agnim,  ehikyire  (  te  'pari- 
mitdh  eva  pariiritah  upadadhur  apa/rimitdh  yajushmatlr  aparimitdh 
lokamprindh  yathd  idam  apy  etarhy  eke  vpadadhati  iti  devdh  akurvann  iti 
te  ha  na  eva  amritatvam  dnasire  \  6.  Te  'rehantah  irdmyantas  eherur 
amritatvam  avarurutsamdndh  \  tdn  ha  Prajdpatir  uvdcha  '  na  vai  me 
sarvdni  rupdny  upadhattha  ati  vd  eva  rechayatha  na  vd  'hhydpayatha 
tasmdd  na  amritdh  bhavatha '  iti  \  7.  Te  ha  uehuh  \  '  tebhyo  vai  nas  tvam 
eva  tad  bruhi  yathd  te  sarvdni  rupdny  upadadhdma '  iti  \  8.  Sa  ha 
uvdcha  shashtim  cha  trini  cha  iatdni  pariSritah  upadhatta  shashtim  cha 
trini  cha  iatdni  yajushmatlr  adhi  shat-trimsatam  atha  lokamprindh  dasa 

'*  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.  ix.  5,  1,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  14, 
note ;  and  the  same  Brahmana  ix.  3,  3,  2.  In  S'atap.  Br.  x.  3,  5,  13,  happiness, 
or  gladness,  is  said  to  be  the  soul  or  essence  of  all  the  gods  {anandatmano  ha  eva 
aarve  devah), 

'"  Gachhati=gamayati  \  Comm. 


TELLING  HOW  THE  GODS  ATTAINED  IMMORTALITY.         57 

clia  aalMsrany  ashtau  oha  iatany  upadhatta  atha  me  sarvani  rupany 
iipadhasyatha  atha  amritah  Ihavishyatha'  iti  \te  ha  tatha  devah  ttpa- 
dadhus  tato  devdh  amritah  dsuh  |  9.  8a  mrityur  devdn  ahravtd  '  ittham 
eva  sarve  manushyah  amrita^  hhavishyanty  atha  ho  mahyam  Ihago 
hhavishyati'  iti  \  te  ha  uehur  'na  ato  'parah  haiohana  aaha  ka/nrena 
amrito  'sad  yada  eva  tvam  etam  Ihagam  harasai  \  atha  vydvritya 
sarirena  \Jarlram,  vihdya,  Comm.]  amrito  'sad  yo  'mrito  'sad  vidyayd 
vd  Icarmand  vd '  iti  \  yad  vai  tad  ahruvan  '  vidyayd  vd  karmand  vd  '  ity 
eshd  ha  eva  sd  vidyd  yad  Agnir  etad  u  ha  eva  tat  karma  yad  Agnih  \ 
10.  Te  ye  evam  etad  vidur  ye  vd  etat  karma  kwrvate  mritvd  punah 
samlhavanti  \  te  samihavantah  eva  amritatvam  abhi  sambhavanti  \  atha 
ye  evam  na  vidur  ye  va  etat  karma  na  kurvate  mritvd  punah  sambhavanti 
te  etasya  eva  annam  punah  punar  bhavanti  \ 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  p.  787. Рђћ "It  is  this  year  which,  is  death; 
for  it  wears  away  the  life  of  mortals  by  days  and  nights,  and 
then  they  die;  wherefore  it  is  it  which  is  death.  Whoso  knows 
this  death  [which  is]  the  year, Рђћ it  does  not  wear  away  his  life 
by  days  and  nights  before  [the  time  of]  his  decay:  he  lives 
through  his  whole  life.  2.  This  [the  year]  is  the  ender;  for  it 
by  days  and  nights  brings  on  the  end  of  the  life  of  mortals,  and  then 
they  die :  hence  it  is  the  ender.  "Whosoever  knows  this  ender,  death, 
the  year,  it  does  not  by  d,ays  and  nights  bring  on  the  end  of  his  life, 
before  his  decay :  he  lives  through  his  whole  life.  3.  The  gods  were 
afraid  of  this  ender,  death,  the  year  [which  is]  Prajapati,  'lest  he 
should  by  days  and  nights  bring  on  the  end  of  our  life.'  4.  They 
performed  these  rites  of  sacrifice,  viz.  the  agnihotra,  the  dar^a  and 
purnamasa,  the  chaturmasyas  (oblations  offered  at  intervals  of  four 
months),  the  pasubandha,  and  the  saumya  adhvara:  but  sacrificing 
with  these  rites  they  did  not  attain  immortality.  5.  They  moreover 
kindled  sacrificial  fires ;  they  celebrated  parisrits,  yajushmatis,  lokam- 
prinas,  without  definite  measure,  as  some  even  now 'Рёб  celebrate  them. 
So  did  the  gods,  but  they  did  not  attain  immortality.  6.  They  went  on 
worshipping  and  toiling,  seeking  to  acquire  immortality.  Prajapati  said 
to  them,  'Te  do  not  celebrate  all  my  forms;  ye  either  carry  them  to 
excess,  or  ye  do  not  fully  carry  them  out;  hence  ye  do  not  become 

100  This  seems  to  be  a  polemical  hit  aimed  by  the  author  of  the  Brahmana  at  some 
contemporaries  who  followed  a  different  ritual  from  himself. 


58  HOW  THE  GODS  BECAME  IMMORTAL 

immortal.'  7.  They  said,  'Tell  us  how  we  may  celebrate  all  thy  forms.' 
8.  He  said,  'Perform  63  hundred  pari^rits,  63  hundred  and  36  yajush- 
matls,  and  10  thousand  8  hundred  lokamprinas:  ye  shall  then  celebrate 
all  my  forms,  and  shall  become  immortal.'  The  gods  celebrated  ac- 
cordingly, and  then  they  became  immortal.  9.  Death  said  to  the  gods, 
'  In  the  same  way  all  men  will  become  immortal,  and  then  what  portion 
shall  remain  to  me  ? '  They  said,  '  No  other  person  shall  henceforward 
become  immortal  with  his  body,  when  thou  shalt  seize  this  portion 
[the  body]  :  then  every  one  who  is  to  become  immortal  through 
knowledge  or  work,  shall  become  immortal  after  parting  with  his 
body.'  This  which  they  said,  'through  knowledge  or  work,'  this  is 
that  knowledge  which  is  Agni,  that  work  which  is  Agni.  10.  Those 
who  so  know  this,  or  those  who  perform  this  work,  are  bom  again 
after  death ;  and  from  the  fact  of  being  born,  they  are  born  for  im- 
mortality. And  those  who  do  not  so  know,  or  those  who  do  not 
perform  this  work,  and  are  bom  again  after  death,  become  again  and 
again  his  (death's)  food." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  i.  2,  12. Рђћ Martydh  ha  vai  agre  devah 
asuh  I  sa  yada  eva  te  samvatsaram  apw  atha  amritah  asuh  \  sarvam  vai 
samvatsa/rah  |  sa/rvarh  vai  akshayyam  \  etena  u  ha  asya  akshayyam  sukritam 
Iha/vaty  akshayyo  lolcah  \  "The  gods  were  originally  mortal."'  When 
they  obtained  the  year,  they  became  immortal.  The  year  is  all :  all 
is  undecaying :  by  it  a  man  obtains  undecaying  welfare,  an  undecaying 
world." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  2,  3,  6. Рђћ Martyah  ha  vai  agre  devah 
asuh  I  sa  yada  eva  te  Brahmana  " pwr  {vyaptah,  Comm.)  atha  amritah 
asuh  I  "  The  gods  were  originally  mortal.  When  they  were  pervaded 
by  Brahma,  they  became  immortal"  (see  the  context  of  this  passage 
in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  388).  Comp.  Taitt.  Br.,  iii.  10,  9,  1, 
quoted  in  the  first  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  71. 


The  following  story  describes  how  the  gods  became  distinguished 
from,  and  superior  to,  the  Asuras.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ix.  5,  1,  12  ff. 
(p.  741). Рђћ BevdScha  Asurdseha  ubhaye  prajapatydh  Frajapateh  pitur 

'"'  See  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  2,  2,  8,  quoted  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  388,  note  36,  for  another  legend  on  this  same  subject,  in  which  the  gods  are  said 
to  have  become  immortal  by  another  means. 


AND  SUPERIOR  TO  THE  ASURAS.  69 

ddt/am^"^  upeyur  vdcltam  eva  satydnrite  mty-anchaiva  anritancka  \  te 
uhhaye  eva  satyam  avadann  ulhaye  'nritam  \  te  ha  sadrisa&  vadantah 
sadriidh  eva  dsuh  \  \Z.  Te  devdh  utsrijya  anritam  satyam  anvdlebhvre  \ 
asurdh  u  ha  utsrijya  satyam  anritam  amidkbhire  |  14.  Tad  ha  idam 
satyam  ikshanohakre  yad  asv/resho  dsa  '  devdh  vai  utsrijya  anritam  satyam 
anvdlapsafa  hanta  tad  aydni'  iti  tad  devdn  ajagdma  \  15.  Anritam  u 
ha  ihhdnchakre  yad  deveshv  dsa  '  asurdh  vai  utsrijya  satyam  Рќаanritam 
anvdiapsata.  hanta  tad  aydni'  iti  tad  asurdn  ajagdma  \  16.  Te  devdh 
sarvam  satyam  avadan  sarvam  asurah  anritam  |  te  devd  dsakti '"'  satyam 
vadantah  aishdvirata/rdh  iva  dswr  anddhyatardh  iva  \  tasmdd  u  ha  etad 
yah  dsakti  satyam  vadaty  aishdviratarah  iva  eva  Ihavaty  anddhyatarah 
iva  I  sa  ha  tv  eva  antato  bhavati^"^  devah  hy  evdntato  'ihavan  \  17.  Atha 
ha  asurdh  asakty  anritafn  vadantah  ushah  iva  pipisur  '┬░*  ddhydh  iva  dsuh\ 
tasmdd  u  ha  etad  yah  asakty  anritam  vadaty  ushah  iva  eva  pisyaty 
ddhyah  iva  Ihavati  pa/ra  ha  tv  eva  antato  hhavati  para  hy  aswrdh  ahhavan  \ 
tad  yat  tat  satyam  trayi  sa  vidyd  \  te  devdh  firman  'yajnam  kritva  idam 

satyam   tanavdmahm'   | 27.    Teshu  preteshu  tritiya-savanam 

atanvata  \  tat  samasthdpayan  \  yat  samasthdpayams  tat  sarvam  satyam 
dpnuvams  tato  'surdh  apapupruvire  \  tato  devah  abhwvan  para  'surdh  \ 
Ihavaty  dtmand  pard  'sya  dvishan  Ihrdtrivyo  hhavati  yah  evam  veda  \ 

"The  gods  and  Asuras,  both,  descendants  of  Prajapati,Рёб  obtained 
their  father  Prajapati's  inheritance,  speech,  true  and  false,  both  truth 

'02  Compare  S'atap.  Br.,  i.  7,  2,  22. 

'"^  Asakti  satyam  \  hevalam  satyam  \  Comm. 

^"^  Some  such  preposition  as  abhi  might  appear  to  be  wanted  here;  hut  Dr. 
Aufrecht  suggests  to  me  that  bhavati  may  be  taken  in  a  pregnant  sense  as  meaning, 
"  he  really  exists,  continues,  or  prevails."  Compare  the  words  at  the  close  of  the 
27th  paragraph  of  this  passage. 

'"'  I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  Aufrecht  for  pointing  out  to  me  another  passage  of  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana  where  the  word  pisyati  occurs,  and  which  throws  light  on  the 
one  before  us.  The  passage  in  question  occurs  in  pp.  71,  72,  of  the  Brahmana, 
i.  7,  3,18:  Pesulcam vai vastu pisyati  ha prajaya pasubhir yasya  evathvidusho' nush- 
tubhau  bhavatah  \  "His  house  becomes  flourishing,  he  increases  in  progeny  and 
cattle, Рђћ that  man  who,  when  he  knows  this,  has  the  two  anushtubhs."  The  commen- 
tator explains  the  word  pesukam  as  equal  to  abhivardhana-Blam,  "  whose  nature  is 
to  increase,"  and  pisyati  as  meaning  atioriddho  bhavati,  "he  becomes  exceedingly 
augmented." 

'06  Comp.  Taitt.  Br.  i.  4,  1,  1.  Ubhaye  vai  ete  Prajapater  adhy  asrijyanta  devas' 
cha  asurah  eha  \  tan  na  vyajmad  "  ime  anye  ime  anye  "  iti  |  "  Gods  and  Asuras  were 
both  created  from  Prajapati.  He  could  not  distinguish  the  one  as  different  from  the 
other." 


60  HO"W  THE  GODS  BECAME  ST7PEEI0E  TO  THE 

and  falsehood.  They  both  spoke  truth,  and  both  [spoke]  falsehood. 
Speaking  alike,  they  were  alike.  13.  Then  the  gods,  abandoning  false- 
hood, adopted  truth;  while  the  Asuras,  abandoning  truth,  adopted 
falsehood.  14.  The  truth  which  had  been  in  the  Asuras  perceived 
this,  '  the  gods,  abandoning  falsehood,  have  adopted  truth ;  let  me  go 
to  it.'  So  [saying,  truth]  came  to  the  gods.  15.  Then  the  falsehood 
which  had  been  in  the  gods  perceived,  '  the  Asuras,  abandoning  truth, 
hJive  adopted  falsehood ;  let  me  go  to  it.'  So  [saying,  falsehood]  came 
to  the  Asuras.  16.  The  gods  [then]  spoke  entirely  truth,  and  the 
Asuras  entirely  falsehood.  Speaking  truth  exclusively  (or  devotedly), 
the  gods  became,  as  it  were,  weaker,  and,  as  it  were,  poorer.  Hence  it 
happens  that  the  man  who  speaks  exclusively  truth  becomes,  as  it  were, 
weaker  and  poorer;  but  in  the  end  he  becomes  [prosperous],  for  the 
gods  became  so  in  the  end.  17.  Then  the  Asuras,  speaking  exclusively 
falsehood,  increased  like  saline  earth,  and  became,  as  it  were,  rich. 
Hence  it  happens  that  he  who  speaks  exclusively  falsehood  increases 
like  saline  earth,  and  becomes,  as  it  were,  rich ;  but  succumbs  in  the 
end,  for  the  Asuras  succumbed.  That  which  is  truth  is  the  triple 
science  (the  three  Vedas).  Then  the  gods  said,  '  Let  us,  after  per- 
forming sacrifice,  celebrate  this  truth.' "  The  gods  then  performed  a 
variety  of  sacrifices,  which  were  always  interrupted  by  the  arrival  of 
the  Asuras.  At  length,  27.  ""When  these  had  gone,  they  celebrated 
the  third  Savana,  and  accomplished  it.  Inasmuch  as  they  accomplished 
it,  they  found  it  entirely  true.  Then  the  Asuras  went  away,  and  the 
gods  became  [superior,  while]  the  Asuras  were  worsted.  The  man 
who  knows  this  becomes  in  his  own  person  superior,  and  his  hater,  his 
enemy,  is  defeated." 

Another  story  relates  to  the  same  subject,  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  v. 
i.  1,  1  (=xi.  1,  8,  1  f.)  :  Bevas  cha-vai  Amrai  cha  uhhaye  prajapatyah 
paspridhire  \  tato-^swah  atimdnena  eva  "Jcasmin  nu  vayam  jultuyama" 
iti  svenhv  eva  asyeshu  jukvatak  cheruh  \  te  'timdnena  eva  pardbahhuvuh  | 
tasmdd  na  aiimanyefa  \  pardbhavasya  hy  etad  muhham  yad  ahhimdnah  \ 
2.  Atha  devdh  anyo  'nyasmin  juhvatas  cheruh  \  telhyah  Prajdpatir 
dtmdnam  pradadau  \  yajno  ha  eshdm  dsa  yajno  hi  devdndm  annam  \ 
"  The  gods  and  Asuras,  both  of  them  the  offspring  of  Prajapati,  strove 
together.  Then  the  Asuras,  asking  themselves  to  whom  they  should 
offer  their  oblations,  through  presumption  went  on  placing  them  in 


ASTJIIAS,  AND  TJNEaTJAL  AMONG  THEMSELVES.  61 

their  own  mouths ;'"  and  in  consequence  of  this  their  presumption  they 
were  overcome.  Wherefore  let  no  one  be  presumptuous ;  for  presump- 
tion leads  to  defeat.  2.  The  gods  went  on  offering  their  oblations 
to  one  another.  Prajapati  gave  himself  to  them;  sacrifice  became 
theirs ;  for  sacrifice  supplies  the  food  of  the  gods."  ""' 

The  following  is  from  the  Taittirlya  Brahmana,  iii.  2,  9,  6  f. :  Asura- 
nam  vai  iyam  agre  aslt  \  yavad  dslnah  parapasyati  tdvad  devdnam  \ 
te  devah  alruvan  " astv  eva  no  'yam  api"  iti  " kyam  no  dasyatha"  iti  \ 
" yavat  svayam  parigrihnitha"  iti  \  "This  [earth]  formerly  belonged 
to  the  Asuras.  The  gods  had  only  as  much  as  any  one  can  see  while 
sitting.  The  gods  said  to  them,  '  Let  us  also  have  a  share  in  it. 
What  will  you  give  us  ? '  'As  much  as  you  yourselves  can  encompass.' " 
The  different  classes  of  gods  then  encompassed  it  on  four  sides."' 

The  next  legend  explains  how  inequality  was  introduced  among  the 
gods.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  iv.  5,  4,  1  (p.  397  f.). Рђћ Sarve  ha  vai  devdh 
agre  sadriidh  dsuh  sarve  puny  ah  \  teshdm  sarveshdm  sadrisdnam  sarveshdm 
punyanam  trayo  'hamayanta  '  atishthdvdnah  syama '  ity  Agnir  Indrah 
Suryah  \  2.  Te  'rchantah  irdmyantai  oheruh  \  te  etdn  atigrdhydn  da- 
driius  tdn  atyagrihnata  \  tad  yad  enan  atyagrihnata  tasmdd  atigrdhyah 
ndma  \  te  'tishthdvano  'hhavan  |  yathd  te  etad  atishtha  iva  atishthd  iva 
ha  vai  hhavati  yasya  evam  vidushah  etdn  grahan  grihnanti  \  3.  No  ha  vai 
idam  figre  'gnau  varehah  dsa  yad  idam  asmin  varchah  \  so  'hdmayata 
'  idam  mayi  varehah  sydd '  iti  \  sa  elam  graham  apasyat  tarn  agrihnlta 
tato  'sminn  etad  varehah  asa  \  4.  JVo  ha  vai  idam  agre  Indre  ojah  dsa 
yad  idam  asminn  ojah  \  so  'hdmayata  '  idam  mayy  ojah  syad '  iti  |  sa 
etam  graham  apaiyat  tam  agrihmta  tato  'sminn  etad  ojah  dsa  \  5.  No 
ha  vai  idam  agre  surye  hhrajah  dsa  yad  idam  asmin  Ihrdjah  \  so  'hdmayata 
'  idam  mayi  Ihrdjah  sydd '  iti  \  sa  etam  graham  apaiyat  tam  agrihnlta 
tato  'sminn  etad  hhrdjah  dsa  \  etdni  ha  vai  tejdmsy  etdni  virydny  dtman 
dhatte  yasya  evam  vidushah  etdn  grahan  grihnanti  \ 

"  Originally  the  gods  were  all  alike,  all  pure.  Of  them,  being  all 
alike,  aU  pure,  three  desired :  '  May  we  become  superior,'  viz.  Agni, 
Indra,  and  Surya  (the  sun).    2.  They  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling. 

"'  Comp.  the  worda  ye  adhi  Juptav  ajuhvata,  R.  V.  i.  61,  5 ;  and  Sayana's  com- 
ment thereon. 

"18  Comp.  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  3,  2,  1 :  Sarvesham  vai  esha  hhutanam  sarvesham  devanam 
atma  yad  yajnah  \    "  Sacrifice  is  the  soul  of  all  heings,  of  all  the  gods." 

>┬╗9  Comp.  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  6,  2,  11;  ti.  6,  3,  2;  xi.  2,  7,  26. 


62  STTPEEIORITT  OF  AGNI,  INDEA,  AND  SUETA. 

They  saw  these  atigrahyas ;  ""  they  offered  them  over  and  above.  Be- 
cause they  did  so,  these  draughts  (or  cups)  -were  called  atigrahyas. 
They  became  superior.  As  they  [became]  thus,  as  it  Рќаwere,  superior, 
so  superiority  is,  as  it  were,  acquired  by  the  man,  of  whom,  when  he 
knows  this,  they  receive  these  grahas  (draughts,  or  cups).  3.  Ori- 
ginally there  was  not  in  Agni  the  same  flame,  as  this  flame  which  is 
[now]  in  him.  He  desired :  '  May  this  flame  be  in  me.'  He  saw  this 
graha,  he  took  it ;  and  hence  there  became  this  flame  in  him.  4.  Ori- 
ginally there  was  not  in  Indra  the  same  vigour,  etc.,  etc.  [as  in  para. 
3].  5.  Originally  there  was  not  in  Surya  the  same  lustre,  etc.,  etc. 
[the  same  as  in  para.  3].  That  man  has  in  himself  these  forces,  these 
energies,  of  whom,  when  he  knows  this,  they  receive  these  grahas." 

'in  By  this  name  are  called  "three  particular  grahas,  or  sacrificial  vessels,  with 
Рќаwhich  lihations  were  made  in  the  Jyotishtoma  sacrifice  to  Agni,  Indra,  and  Surya." 
Prof.  Goldstiicker's  Diet.  The  word  is  explained  by  Bohtlingt  and  Roth,  as  mean- 
ing "haustus  insuper  hauriendus,"  a  draught  to  be  drunk  over  and  above;  the 
designation  of  three  fillings  of  the  cup,  which  are  drawn  at  the  Soma  offering. 


63 


CHAPTEE  II. 

VISHNtJ,    AS    REPRESENTED    IN    THE   VEDIC    HTMNS,    THE 
BRAHMANAS,  THE   ITIHASAS,  AND  THE  PURANAS. 

Sect.  I. Рђћ Passages  in  the  Hymns  of  the  Rig-veda  relating  to    Vishnu. 

E.  V.  i.  22,  16  ff. :  16  (=S.  V.  2,  1024).  Ato  devah  a/vantu  no  yato 
Vishnur  viohaJcrame  \  prithivydh  sapta  dhamalhih  I  17  (  =  S.  V.  i.  222; 
Vaj.  S.  6,  15;  A.  V.  7,  26,  4).  Idam  Vishnur  viohakrame  tredha 
nidadhe padam  \  samulham  asya  pamsure  \^pamsule  |  S.  V.]  18  (  =  S.  V. 
2,  1020;  Vaj.  S.  34,  43;  A.  V.  7,  26,  5).  Trzai  pada  viohakrame  Vishnur 
gopah  adahhyah  \  ato  dharmani  dharayan  \   19  (=S.  V.  2,  1021 ;  Yaj.  S. 

6,  4;  A.  V.  7,  26,  6).  Vishnoh  harmani  pasyata  yato  vratani  paspah  \ 
Indrasya  yujyah''  sakha  |  20  (=8.  Y.  2,  1022;  Vaj.  S.  6,  5;  A.  V. 

7,  26,  7).  Tad  Vishnoh  paramam  padam  sada  pakyanti  surayaK,  \  divwi 
chakshur  atatam  ]  21  (=S.  V.  2,  1023 ;  Vaj.  S.  34,  44).  Tad  vipraso 
vipanyavo  jagrimmsah  samindhate  I    Vishnor  yat  paramam  padam  \ 

16.  "May  the  gods  preserve  us  from  the  place  from  -which  Vishnu 
strode'''  over  the  seven  regions  of  the  earth.'  17.  Vishnu  strode  over 
this  [universe] ;  in  three  places  he  planted  his  step :  [the  world,  or 


yo  va  sakha  va,  R.  Y.  ii.  28,  10 ;  yi^,  i.  10,  9 ;  yujyaya,  ix.  66,  18. 

'  Mbh.  S'anti-Parva,  v.  13171 :  Kramanaeh  chapy  aham  Fartha  Vishnur  ity 
abhisamjnitah  |  "  And  from  striding,  0  son  of  Pritha,  I  am  called  Vishnu."  The 
A.  V.  ix.  6,  29,  speaks  of  the  steps  of  Prajapati  being  imitated  by  his  worshipper- 
(JPrajapater  vai  esha  vilcraman  antmikrmnate  yah  upaharati). 

"  Instead  of  the  words  prithivyah  sapta  dhamabhih,  the  Sama-veda  reads,  prithi- 
vyah  adhi  sanavi :  "  over  the  surface  of  the  earth."  This  verse,  as  well  as  the  follow- 
ing ones,  is  rendered  by  Professor  Beufey,  in  his  translation  of  the  Sama-veda,  as 
well  as  in  his  "  Orient  und  Occident,"  i.  30.  He  understands  the  place  from  which 
Vishnu  strides  to  be  the  sun,  referring  to  verse  20.  For  the  sense  given  by  Sayana 
to  this  and  the  following  verses,  see  Wilson's  translation  of  the  Rig-veda  and  notes 
in  loco.    Compare  also  Rosen's  Latin  version. 


64  NIRUKTA'S  EXPLANATION  OP  VISHNFS  STRIDES. 

his  step,  was]  enveloped  in  his  dust.*  18.  Vishnu,  the  unconquerable^ 
preserver,  strode  three  steps,  thereby  maintaining  fixed  ordinances. 
19.  Behold  the  acts  of  Vishnu,  through  which  this  intimate  friend 
of  Indra  perceived*  established  laws.  20.  Sages  constantly  behold 
that  highest  position  of  Vishnu,  like  an  eye  fixed  in  the  sky.  21. 
Wise  men,  singing  praises,  and  ever  wakeful,  light  up '  [by  the  power 
of  their  hymns?]  that  which  is  the  highest  station  of  Vishnu." 

The  17th  verse  of  this  hymn  is  quoted  in  the  ITirukta,  xii.  19;* 
where  we  have  the  following  explanations  of  its  purport,  derived  by 
Taska  from  two  older  writers  : Рђћ 

Yad  idam  hinoha  tad  vihramate  Vishnuh  \  tridha  nidhatte  padmn  \ 
'  tredha-bhdvdya  prithwyam  antarikshe  divi '  iti  Sahapunih  \  '  samS- 
roMne  vishrmpade  gayaHrasi'  ity  Aurnmabhah  \  '  samudham  asya  pafh- 
sure '  I  pyayane  'ntarikshe  padam  na  drUyate  \  apiva  upamdrthe  syat  \ 
samudham  asya  pdmsule  iva  padam  na  driiyate  ityddi  | 

"Vishnu  strides  over  this,  whatever  exists.  He  plants  his  step  in 
a  three-fold  manner, Рђћ i.e.  '  for  a  three-fold  existence,  on  earth,  in  the 
atmosphere,  and  in  the  sky,'  according  to  S'akapuni ;  or,  '  on  the  hiU 
where  he  rises,  on  the  meridian,  and  on  the  hill  where  he  sets,'  ac- 
cording to  Aurnavabha.     '  Samudham  asya  pamswe,'  i.e.  his  step  is 


'  According  to  Benfey,  translation  of  S.  V.,  p.  223,  note,  this  phrase,  the  world  is 
veiled  in  Vishnu's  dust,  means,  it  is  suhjected  to  him.  In  his  "  Orient  und  Occident," 
he  explains  it  thus :  "  he  is  so  mighty  that  the  dust  which  his  tread  raises,  fills  the 
whole  earth."  Can  this  dust  he  understood  of  the  dazzling  brightness  of  the  sun's 
rays,  surrounding  his  progress,  and  obscuring  his  disc  from  the  view  of  the  observer  ? 
The  prophet  Nahum  says,  i.  3,  "  The  Lord  hath  his  way  in  the  whirlwind  and  in  the 
storm,  and  the  clouds  are  the  dust  of  his  feet." 

6  Adabhya  may  also  mean  "who  cannot  be  deceived."  The  idea  of  Vishnu  being 
pre-eminently  the  preserver  of  the  universe,  which  became  current  in  later  times,  may 
possibly  have  been  derived  from  this  verse. 

6  Sayana  gives  to  the  root  spas  the  sense  of  "hindering,"  or  "touching."  Benfey, 
.  in  his  S.  v.,  renders ^fflspai┬Ф  by  "received,"  and,  in  the  "  Orient  und  Occident,"  by 
"iirmly  fixed."  The  sense,  he  says,  is  this:  "Look  to  the  sun,  where  the  terminus 
lies  from  which  Vishnu  started  (verses  16,  21),  and  in  which  all  the  powers  which 
work  in  nature  have  their  source."  Both,  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  pp. 
138  f.,  thinks  that  the  sense  of  "beholding"  is  suitable  in  all  the  texts  where  forms 
of  the  root  spas  occur  in  the  E.  V. 

'  Benfey  renders  samindhate  "glorify.''  The  commentator  on  the  Vaj.  S.  34,  44, 
makes  it  d'payanie =upasate.  Eoth,  under  the  word,  explains  "  they  kindle  [Agni  f] 
when  Vishnu  is  in  his  highest  position." 

8  Formerly  cited  in  part  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work. 


DTTRGA'S  COMMENT  ON  THE  PASSAGE  OF  THE  NIEUEiTA.     65 

not  seen  in  that  prolific  region,  the  atmosphere  {pyayane  antarikshe) : 
or  the  phrase  may  be  metaphorical,  '  enveloped  in  his  dust,  as  it  were, 
his  step  is  not  seen,"  etc. 

The  following  is  the  comment  of  Durgaoharya*  on  this  passage  of 
the  Nirukta : 

Vishnur  Adityah  j  Katham  iti  yatah  aha  '  tredhd  niiaihe  padam  '  ni- 
dhatte  padaih  nidhanam  padaih  \  hva  tat  tavat  \  ' prithivyam  antarikshe 
dwi '  iti  S'akapunih  \  parthivo  'gnir  bhutva  prithivyafh  yat  kinchid  asti 
tad  vikramate  tad  adhitishthati  \  antarikshe  vaidyutatmana  |  divi  surydt- 
mand  \  yad  uktam  '  tarn  u  akrinvan  tredhd  Ihuve  kam'  (E.  V.  x.  88,  10) 
iti  I  '  samdrohane '  udaya-girdv  udyan  padam  ekam  nidhatte  \  '  vishnu- 
pade'  madhyandine  'ntarikshe  |  ' gayasirasy'  astamgirdv  ity  Aurnavdhhah 
dchdryo  manyate  \ 

"  Vishnu  is  the  sun  [Aditya].'"  How  so?  Because  [the  hymn]  says, 
'  in  three  places  he  planted  his  step ' ;  i.e.  plants  his  step,  [makes]  a 
planting  with  his  steps.  Where,  then,  is  this  done  ?  '  On  the  earth, 
in  the  firmament,  and  in  the  sky,'  according  to  SUkapuni.  Becoming 
terrestrial  fire,  he  strides  over, Рђћ abides  in,  whatever  there  is,  on  earth; 
in  the  shape  of  lightning,  in  the  firmament ;  and  in  the  form  of  the 
sun,  in  the  sky.  As  it  is  said  (in  the  E.  Y.  x.  88,  10),  'They  made 
him  to  bfecome  threefold."  Aurnavabha  Acharya  thinks  [the  meaning 
is]  this,^  '  He  plants  one  foot  on  the  '  samarohana '  (place  of  rising), 
when  mounting  over  the  hill  of  ascension ;  [another]  on  the  '  vishnu- 
pada,'  the  meridian  sky;  [a  third]  on  the  'gaya^iras,'  the  hill  of  set- 
ting." " 

It  thus  appears  from  the  statement  of  Yaska  that  the  two  old  writers 
whom  he  quotes  had  proposed  two  different  interpretations  of  Yishnu's 
steps. 

Pirst :  S'akapuni  thought  that  the  triple  manifestation  of  the  god,  in 
the  form  of  fire  on  earth,  of  lightning  in  the  atmosphere,  and  of  the 
solar  light  in  the  sky,  was  intended  in  the  hymn.  This  threefold  dis- 
tribution of  divine  agency  is  thus  referred  to  in  another  interesting 
passage  of  the  Nirukta,  vii.  5  : 

'  Already  quoted  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work. 

w  The  Atharvaveda,  v.  26,  7  has  the  following  reference  to  Vishnu:   Tishmr 
yunaktu  bahudha  tapaihsi  asmin  yajne  suyujah  svaha  | 
'1  See  Appendix  B. 


66        S'AKAPUNI  AND  AUENAVABHA  ON  VISHNFS  STEIDES. 

Tisrah  eva  devatah  iti  Nairuktah  Agnih  prithivi-sthano  Vdyur  vd 
Indro  vd  'ntarilesha-sthdmh  Suryo  dyu-sthdnah  \  tdsdm  maMlhdgydd 
ehaihasydh  tvpi  hahuni  ndmadheydni  hhavanti  |  api  vd  karma-prithaMvdd 
yathd  hotd  'dhvarytir  brahmd  udgdta  ity  apy  ehasya  satah  \  api  vd 
prithag  eva  syuh  \  prithag  M  stutayo  hhavanti  tathd  ^hhidhdndni  ityddi  | 

"  There  are  only  three  deities,  according  to  the  Nairuktas  (etymo- 
logists), Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth,  Vayu,  or  Indra,  whose  place 
is  in  the  atmosphere,  and  Surya,  whose  place  is  in  the  sky.  These 
[deities]  each  receive  many  designations,  in  consequence  of  their  great- 
ness,'^ or  from  the  diversity  of  their  functions,  as  [the  appellations  of] 
hotri,  adhvaryu,  brahman,  and  udgatri  are  applied  to  one  and  the 
same  person.  Or  [the  gods  in  question]  may  all  he  distinct,  for 
distinct  hymns  and  appellations  are  addressed  to  them,"  etc.'' 

According  to  S'akapuni,  therefore,  Vishnu  would  be  the  god  who  is 
manifested  in  a  three-fold  form  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  the 
sky. 

Secondly:  Aurnavabha  interprets  the  passage  differently.  He  under- 
stands the  three  steps  of  Vishnu,  not  of  fire,  lightning,  and  solar  light, 
but  of  the  different  positions  of  the  sun  at  his  rising,  his  culmination, 
and  his  setting."  According  to  him,  therefore,  Vishnu  is  simply  the 
sun. 

Sayana  (see  Professor  Wilson's  translation,  p.  53,  note)  understands 
this  passage  as  referring  to  the  three  steps  of  Vishnu  in  his  "Dwarf 
incarnation,"  of  which  I  shall  supply  details  further  on.  The  com- 
mentator on  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  annotates  thus  on  5,  15  (= verse 
1 7  of  the  hymn  before  us) : 

Vishnus  trwihramdvatdrarh  hritvd  idarh  vUvam  vichahrame  vihhajya 
kramate  sma  \  tad  eva  aha  \  tredhd  padarh  nidadhe  hhumdv  ekam  padam 

"  Kal  Taia  iroWciv  ovo/idTuv  ^opipii  fila,  iEschylus  Prom.  Vinet.  v.  217. 

"  In  a  previous  part  of  this  passage,  vii.  4,  it  is  said,  Mahabhagyad  devatayah  ekah 
atma  bahudha  stuyate  \  ekasya  atmano  'nye  demh  pratyangani  bhavanti  \  "  From 
tie  greatness  of  the  Deity  the  one  Soul  is  celebrated  in  many  ways.  The  different 
gods  are  members  of  the  one  Soul,"  etc.  Compare  Mr.  Colebrooke's  Essays,  i.  26  f. ; 
or  p.  12  f.  of  "W.  and  N.'s  ed.  It  appears  from  an  adyertisement  in  No.  76  of 
Triibner's  American  and  Oriental  Literary  Record,  that  these  Essays  are  bein"-  re- 
printed under  the  editorship  of  Prof.  E.  B.  Cowell.     (August,  1872.) 

'*  This  is  the  Tiew  taken  by  Prof.  Max  Miiller:  "This  stepping  of  Vishnu  is 
emblematic  of  the  rising,  the  culminating,  and  the  setting  of  the  sun,"  etc.  Trans, 
of  E.  v.,  vol.  i.,  p.  117. 


FUETHER  TEXT  OF  EIGVEDA  ABOUT  YISHNU.  67 

antarilcshe  dvitiyam  divi  tvitiyam  iti  kramad  Agni-Vayu-Surya-rv^ena 
ity  arthah  \ 

"Vishnu,  becoming  incarnate  as  Trivikrama  (the  god  who  stepped 
thrice),  strode  over, Рђћ i.e.  stepped  by  separate  strides  over, Рђћ this  whole 
[universe].  It  is  this  that  [the  rishi]  expresses  [in  the  words],, 'In 
three  places  he  planted  his  step,'  i.e.  one  step  on  the  earth,  a  second 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  a  third  in  the  sky :  in  the  successive  forms  of 
Agni,  Vayu,  and  Siirya." 

The  commentator  here  combines  the-  view  that  the  Dwarf  incarnation 
of  Vishnu  is  referred  to  in.  the  hymn,  with  the  conception  that  his  dif- 
ferent steps  on  the  earth,  in  the  atmosphere,  and  in  the  sky,  were  taken 
in  the  successive  characters  of  Agni,  Vayu,  and  Surya,  which  is  the 
interpretation  of  S'akapuni,  as  explained  by  Durga.  There  is  no  trace 
in  the  words  either  of  S'akapuni,  or  of  Aurnavabha,  as  handed  down  by 
Yaska,,  of  any  aUnsion  to  such,  a  Trivikrama  incarnation  of  Vishnu.'* 


I  proceed  to  quote  in  order  from  the  Eig-veda  further  texts  relative 
to  Vishnu. 

E.  V.  i.  61,  7  :  Asyed  u  matuh  savaneshu  sadyo  mdhah  pitum  papwan 
ehdru  anna  \  mushayad  Vishnuh  paehatam  saMyan  vidhyai  varaham  tira 
adrim  asts Рђћ "Having  at  the  libations  of  that  great  measurer  [of  the 
worlds,  i.e.  Indra],  drunk  the  potion,  and  [eaten], the  pleasant  oblations, 
the  impetuous  Vishnu  straightway  stole  the  cooked  mess,  pierced  the 
boar  and  shot  through  the  mountain.''  See  E.  V.  viii.  66,  10,  below, 
and  the  quotation  from  Say  ana's  note  on  that  verse. 

"  The  Brahmanas,  as  well  as  the  hymns,  contain  freqnent  allusions  to  the  three 
steps  or  stations  of  Vishnu.  See  the  S'atap.  Br.  vi.  7,  4,  7  ff. ;  Taitt.  Sanh.  i.  7,  5,  4. 
The  Yajasaneyi  Sanhita  has  the  following  additional  reference  to  them.  According 
to  the  commentator,  the  interlocutors  in  the  two  verses  are  the  hrahmau  and  ndgatri 
priests.  Vaj .  Sanh.,  xxiii.  49 :  J'ricAhami  tva  chitaye  devasakha  yadi  tvam  atra 
manaaa  jaganiha  \  yeshu  Vishnm  treshu  padtshu  eshtas  teshu  vUvam  bhuvanam 
avivesa  \  50  |  Apt  teshu  trishu  padeshu  asmi  yeshu  vis'vam  bhv/vanam  avives'a\ 
sadyah  paryemi  prithimm  uta  dyam  ekenangena  ctivo  asya  prishtham  |  "  I  ask  thee, 
friend  of  the  gods,  that  I  may  know,  if  thou  by  thy  mind  hast  reached  so  far, Рђћ did 
Vishnu,  in  the  three  steps  (or  spheres)  in  which  he  is  worshipped,  pervade  the  entire 
universe  P  |  50.  I  am  even  in  those  three  steps  by  which  he  pervaded  the  entire 
universe.  Straightway  I  move  around  the  earth  and  heaven;  with  one  member, 
(I  move)  over  the  surface  of  this  sky." 


68  FUETHEE,  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA 

E.  V.  i.  85,  7 :  Te  avardhanta  sva-tavaso  mahitvand  a  nalcam  tasthur 
uru  ehakrire  sadah  \  Vishnur  yad  ha  dvad  vrishamm  mada-ehyutam  vayo 


"They  (the  Maruts),  strong  in  themselves,  increased  in  greatness. 
They  ascended  to  heaven,  and  have  made  [for  themselves]  a  spacious 
abode.  When  Vishnu  assisted  the  hero  [Indra?]  who  humbles  pride,'' 
they  sat  down  like  birds  on  the  saorifLoial  grass  which  they  love." 

E..  V.  i.  90,  5,  9. Рђћ  Uta  no  dhiyo  go-agrah  JPushan  Vishno  eva-ydvah  \ 
karta  nah  svastimatah  \  9.  iam  no  Mitrah  iam  Varunah  iam  no  hhavatu 
Aryamd  |  sam  nah  Zndro  Brihaspaiih  sam  no  Viahmtr  wrukramah  \ 

5.  "Pushan,  Vishnu,   swift  goer,  make  our  prayers  to   bring  us 

cattle  and  other  possessions :    make  us  prosperous 9.   May 

Mitra,  may  Varuna,  may  Aryaman,  may  Indra,  may  Brihaspati,  may 
the  wide-striding  Vishnu,  all  grant  us  prosperity." 

I  now  come  to  a  hymn  which,  with  the  exception  of  the  last  verse 
(where  two  gods  are  alluded  to),  is  devoted  exclusively  to  the  celebra- 
tion of  Vishnu's  praises. 

k  y.  1,  154  (=Vaj.  S.  5,  18;  A.  V.  7,  26,  l).Рђћ  rishnor  nu  kam 


1'  Though  the  commentator  in  loco  renders  mada-thyutam  by  madasya  harsha- 
eya  asektaram,  "dispenserof  exhilaration"  he  interprets  it  in  his  note  on  E.  V.  i.51,2 
Рђћ where  it  is  an  epithet  of  Indra Рђћ by  sati  unam  madasya  garvasya  ehymayitarmn, 
"  who  brings  down  the  pride  of  his  enemies."  In  E.  V.,  viii.  1,  21,  the  word  mada- 
ehyut  is  again  a^pplied  to  Indra,  and  in  E.  V.  viii.  85,  5,  to  his  thunderbolt.  [I  leave 
my  translation  to  stand  as  it  was  in  the  first  edition.  Benfey,  however,  "  Orient  und 
Occident,"  ii.  248,  renders  the  clause  about  Vishnu  thus :  "  When  Vishnu  protects 
the  dropping  (Soma)  who  distils  intoxication,"  and  refers  to  a  paper  of  his 
own  in  the  Gott.  Gel.  Anzeigen  regarding  the  relation  of  Vishnu  to  Soma.  In 
Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  the  word  madachyut,  as  it  is  to  be  understood  in  this 
passage,  is  translated  "delightful,"  "gladdening,"  "inspiring."  Prof.  Miiller, 
Translation  of  E.  V.,  vol.  i.,  renders  the  clause,  "When  Vishnu  descried  the  en- 
rapturing Soma,"  In  his  note,  p.  116,  he  remarks  :  "  Vishnu,  whose  character  in 
the  hymns  of  the  Veda  is  very  different  frooi  that  assumed  by  him  in  later  periods 
of  Hindu  religion,  must  here  be  taken  as  the  friend  and  companion  of  Indra."  After 
quoting  various  texts  about  the  two  gods,  he  adds,  "  The  mention  of  Vishnu  in  our 
hymn  is  therefore  by  no  means  exceptional,  but  the  whole  purport  of  this  verse  is 
nevertheless  very  doubtful,  chiefly  owing  to  the  fact  that  several  of  the  words  occur- 
ring in  it  lend  themselves  to  different  interpretations."  He  says,  p.  118,  that 
"bringing  down  pride"  is  a  meaning  which  the  word  madachyut  clearly  has  not  in 
the  Veda.  When  applied  to  the  thunderbolt,  he  says  it  ought  to  be  rendered  "wildly 
rushing  down"  ;  and  when  referred  to  Indra,  his  horses,  or  the  As'vius,  or  to  horses 
in  general,  he  would  translate  it  by  "  furiously  or  wildly  moving  about."] 


EELATIVE  TO  VISHNU.  69 

viryani  pravooliam"  yah  pdrthivdni  vimame  rajdmsi  \  yo  askabhayad 
uttaram  sadhastham,  viohakramdnas  tredhd  urugdyah  \  2.  (=A.  Y.  7,  26> 
2,  3 ;  Nir.  1,  20) :  Pra  tad  Vishmh  stavate  viryena  mrigo  na  hhimak 
kuoharo  girishthdh}^  \  yasyorushu  trishu  vifcramaneshu  adhikshiyanti  hhu- 
vandni  viivd  \  Z.Pra  Vishmve susham  etu  manma  girikshite  urugdydya^^ 
vrishne  \  yah  idafh  dirgham  prayatafh  sadhastham,  eko  vimame  tribhir  it 
padehhih  \  4.  Yasya  tri  purnd  madhuna  paddni  ahsMyamdnd  svadhayd 
madanti  \  yah  u  tridhdtu  prithivim  uta  dydm  eko  dddhara  hhuvandni 
viivd  I  5.  Tad  asya  priyam  ahhi patho  (E.V.  iii.  55,  10)  aiydm  naro  yatra 
devayavo  madanti  |  wrukramasya  sahilandhitr  itthd  Vishnoh pade parame 
madhvah  utsah  \  6.  (Vaj.  S.  6,  3 ;  'Eiv.  2,  7) :  Td  vdm  vdstuni  uSmasi 
gamadhyai  yatra  gdvo  hhUri-iringdh  ayasah  \  atraha  tad  urugdyasya 
vrishnah  paramam  padam  ava  hhdti  Ihuri  \ 

"  I  declare  the  heroic  deeds  of  Vishnu,  who  traversed  the  mundane 
regions,  who  established  the  upper  sphere,  striding  thrice,  the  wide- 
stepping.  2.  Therefore  is  Vishnu  celebrated  for  his  prowess,  terrible 
like  a  wild  beast,  destructive,  abiding  in  the  mountains  [or,  clouds,  if 
this  be  an  epithet  of  the  god] ;  he  within  [the  range  of]  whose  three 
vast  paces  all  the  worlds  abide.  3.  Let  my  inspiriting  hymn  proceed 
to  Vishnu,  the  dweller  in  the  [aerial]  mountains,  the  wide-stepping, 
the  vigorous,  who  alone  traversed  with  three  steps  this  wide,  extended 
firmament; Рђћ 4.   "Wiose  three  [steps,    or]  stations,   replenished  with 


1'  The  same  form  of  expression  occurs  in  a  hymn  to  Indra  (R.  V.  i.  32,  1),  Indrasya 
nu  vxryani pravochamy  etc.     Compare  K.  V.,  ii.  15,  1. 

'8  On  this  verse  the  Nirukta  remarl^s :  "Kucliarah  "  iti  eharati  karma  leutsitam\ 
atha  cheA  devatabJiidhanam  leva  ay  am  na  eharati  iti  \  girishtKah  giristhSyi  girih  par- 
vatah  ....  tat-praleriti  itarat  sandhi-sSmanyad  megha-sthayl  megJw  'pi  girir  etas- 
mad  eva  I  " '  Kuchara '  is  one  who  does  [eharati)  a  blamable  action.  If  the  word  he 
a  designation  of  the  god,  it  will  mean  '  where  does  he  not  go  ? '  '  G-irishthah '  means 
'abiding  in  the  mountains;'  for  giri  means  'mountain.'"  ....  The  author  then 
gives  various  etymologies  of  the  woiAparvata,  "mountain,"  one  of  which  is  that  it 
is  derived  from  parvan,  "  a  joint " ;  and  then  proceeds :  "  From  this  sense  is  derived 
another  (owing  to  the  idea  of  joint  being  common  to  both),  viz.,  that  of  '  abiding  in 
the  clouds,'  for  a  cloud  also  is  called  giri  for  the  same  reason."  See  Eoth's  Illus- 
trations of  the  Nirukta,  p.  17.  The  same  comparison,  mrigo  na  bhmah  Hcucharo  gi- 
rishthSh,  is  applied  to  Indra  in  E.  V.,  x.  180,  2  (=S.  V.,  ii.  1223,  and  A.  V.  7,  84,  3). 
Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.  v.,  think  the  word  Kuchara  may  signify  "slowly-moving," 
"  slinking."     The  word  mriga  is  applied  to  Varuna  in  E.  V.  vii.  87,  6. 

>'  Urugayasya=prithu-gamanasya  adhiJeastuter  vS, Рђћ Sayana  on  E.  V.  iii.  6,  4. 
Urugayasya=mahagateh. Рђћ Nir,  il,  7. 


70        SATAN  A' S  EXPLANATION  OF  "  PAETHIVANI  EAJAMSI. 

honey,  imperishable,  gladden  us  with  food;  who  alone  hath  triply 
sustained  the  uniyerse,  the  earth,  and  the  sky,  [yea]  all  the  worlds. 
5.  May  I  attain  to  that  beloved  heaven  of  his,  where  men  devoted  to 
the  gods  rejoice  ;  for  (such  a  friend  is  he)  there  is  a  spring  of  honey  in 
the  highest  abode  of  the  wide-stepping  Tishgu.  6.  "We  yearn  to  attain 
to  those  abodes  of  you  twain,  where  the  many-homed  and  swiftly- 
moving  cows  abide.  Here  that  supreme  abode  of  the  wide-stepping, 
vigorous  [god]  shines  intensely  forth." 

I  shall  quote  a  i)ortion  of  the  explanation  Sayana  gives  of  the  words 
parthivdni  mjdmsi,  in  the  first  verse  of  the  preceding  hymn :  Yo  Vishnuh 
pdrthivdni  priihivl-sambandhini  rcy'amsi  ranjanatmakdni  hshity-di/i-lokar 
trayahhimdnmy  Agni-Vdyv-AcKtya-rupdni  rtydmsi  vimame  viieshena 
nirmame  \  atra  trayo  lokdh  a/pi  prithivi-sabda-vdohydh  \  tatha  cha  man- 
trdntaram  (R.  V.  i.  108,  9),  'yad  Ind/rdgnl  avamasyam  prithivydm  ma- 
dhyamasydm  paramasydm  uta  stha'  iti  \  TaitUriye  'pi  '  yo  'sya.m  prithi- 
vydm asy  dywha!  ity  upahramya  'yo  dnitiyasydm  tritiyasyam prithivydm' 
iti  I  tasmdl  lokatrayasya  privithi-ialda-vachyatvam  |  .  .  .  .  yadvd  yo 
Vishnuh  pdrthivdni  prithivl-mmbandhmi  rajdmsi  adhastana-sapta-lohdn 
vimame  |  ....  rajah-idbdo  loTcah-vaohl  '  loMh  rey'dMsy  uchyante '  iti 
Ydskenoktatvdt  |  .  .  ,  .  athavd  pdrthivdni  pritMvi-nimittakdnd  rcydmsi 
lohdn  vimame  \  hhur-ddi-lolca-trayam  ity  arthdh  \  ihumydm  itpdrjita- 
hdrma-hhogdrthatvdd  Hara-lokdndm  tat-kdramlvam  \ 

"  [The  meaning  is],  Vishnu  who  formed, Рђћ especially  constructed, Рђћ 
the  terrestrial  [regions]  ;  i.e.,  those  connected  with  ^r┬Ф%┬╗i  (the  earth), 
Рђћ the  regions  (rajdmsi), Рђћ the  things  whose  nature  is  to  delight  (ranj'a- 
ndtmakdni), Рђћ existing  in  the  form  of  Agni,  Vayu,  and  Aditya,  who 
represent  the  three  worlds,  the  earth,  etc.  Here  all  the  three  worlds 
are  intended  to  be  designated  by  the  term  prUhivl.  Thus  another 
text  [E.  V.  i.  108,  9]  says :  '  "Whether,  Indra  and  Agni,  ye  are  in  the 
lowest  world  {prithivi),  in  the  middle  [world],  or  in  the  highest,'  etc. 
In  the  Taittirlya  also,  [we  have  the  words]  beginning  with  '  thou  who 
with  thy  life  art  in  this  world,'  etc. ;  [and  proceeding]  '  who  in  the 
second,  or  third  world,'  etc.  Hence  the  three  worlds  are  intended  to 
be  signified  by  the  word  prithivi.  ...  Or,  [the  meaning  may  be],  the 
Vishnu  who  formed  the  terrestrial  [regions],  the  regions  connected  with 
the  earth,  the  seven  worlds  beneath  the  earth.  The  term  rajas  denotes 
a  world,  since  Yaska  says  '  worlds  are  called  rajdmsi.'  ....  Or  [the 


EXPLANATION  OF  EiaVEDA  i.  164.  71 

sense  may  be],  he  made  the  terrestrial  regions,  the  worlds  caused  by 
the  earth,  i.e.  the  three  worlds,  the  earth  and  the  others.  For  as  the 
other  worlds  are  destined  to  be  enjoyed  as  the  rewards  of  merit  acquired 
on  earth,  the  latter  is  the  cause  of  the  former." 

The  following  is  the  passage  of  the  Mrukta,  iv.  19,  referred  to  by 
Sayana,  which  gives  the  meanings  of  rajas :  Rajo  rajateh  \  jyotih  rajah 
uchyate  \  udalcam  rajah  uchyate  \  lokah  rqjafhsy  uehyante  \  asrig^-ahanl 
rajaal  uehyde  \  'rcy'amsi  cUtrah  vicharanti  tanyavah^  Uy  api  nigamo 
hhwati  1 

"  Bajas  is  derived  from  the  root  raj.  Light  is  called  reyas.  "Water 
is  called  rajas.  The  worlds  are  called  rajamsi.  [Blood  and  day,  or] 
day  and  night,  are  called  rajasi.  There  is  also  a  text  (H.  V.  v.  63,  5), 
'Brilliant  and  resounding  [the  Maruts]  sweep  over  the  worlds.'" Рђћ See 
also  Mr.  X.  44,  and  xii.  23,  and  E.  V.  i.  90,  7. 

In  E.  V.  i.  164,  6,  mention  is  made  of  six  worlds  {rajafhsi) :  vi  yas 
tastamhha  shal  ima  rajamsi,  "who  established  these  six  worlds." 

The  verb  vimame  cannot,  I  think,  have  the  meaning,  which  the  com- 
mentator assigns  to  it,  of  "  constructing."  It  occurs  not  only  in  verse  1, 
of  the  hymn  before  us,  but  in  verse  3  also,  where  it  must  have  the  sense 
of"  measuring,"  or  "  traversing, "'''  as  it  could  not  fitly  be  said  of  Vishnu 
that  he  constructed  the  firmament  with  three  steps.  The  phrase  rajaso 
vimanah,  "measurer  of  the  world,"  occurs  in  E.  V.  x.  121,  5  (above 
p.  16),  and  in  E.  V.  x.  1 39,  5,  quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work, 
p.  260.  In  E.  V.  i.  50,  7,  the  participle  mmimariah  seems  to  have  the 
same  sense :  vi  dydm  eshi  rajas  prithv  aha  mimdno  ahtubhih  I  paiyan 
janmani  surya  |  "Sun,  thou  traversest  the  sky,  measuring  the  broad 
space  {rajas),  and  the  days,  with  thy  rays,''^  beholding  created  things." 

The  phrase  rajaso  vimanah  occurs  also  in  E.  V.  iii.  26,  7  (=Vaj. 
S.  18,  66),  where  Agni  says  of  himself  that  he  is  arkas  tridhdtuh  rajaso 
vimanah'^  \  "the  threefold  light,  the  measurer  of  the  world,"  which 
the  commentator  explains  thus  :  tredhd  dtmdnam  vihhajya  tdtra  Vayv- 
atmana  rajaso  ^nta/rikshasya  vimdno  vimdtd  'dhishthdta  'smi  \   "Triply 

'"'  Eoth  conjectures  that  the  word  asrik  here  is  spurious. Рђћ lUust.  of  Nir.,  p.  46. 

*'  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  *.  v.  ma-\-m. 

2^  The  word  aTitubMh  is  rendered  "nights"  hy  Taska  in  his  explanation  of  this 
passage,  Nir.  xii.  23,  and  by  the  commentator;  but  the  latter  explains  the  same 
word  by  raimibhih,  "rays,"  in  his  annotation  on  E.  V.  i.  94,  5. 

^'^  This  verse  is  explained  in  a  spiritual  sense  in  Nirukta  Paris'ishta  ii.  1, 


72  FTJRTHER  ILLUSTRATIONS  OF 

dividing  myself,  I  am,  in  the  character  of  Vayu,  he  who  abides  in  the 
atmosphere." 

Compare,  with  the  phrase  before  us,  Habakkuk  iii.  6 :  "  He  stood 
and  measured  the  earth,"  etc. 

I  shall  adduce  one  other  passage  E.  V.  v.  81,  3  (=Vaj.  S.  11,  6),  in 
which  the  same  phrase  occurs,  where  this  function  of  measuring  the 
world  is  ascribed  to  Savitri  (the  sun) :  Yasya  praydmm  anv  anye  id 
yayv/r  devah  devasya  mahimanam  ojasa  |  yah  parthivdni  mmame  sa  etaio 
rajamsi  devah  Savita  mahitvana  \  "  He,  the  god  whose  course  and 
whose  might  the  other  gods  have  followed  with  vigour,  who  measured 
[or  traversed]  the  terrestrial  regions  by  his  power,  this  god  Savitri 
is  a  steed." 

This  text  is  quoted  and  commented  on  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
6,  3,  1,  18 :  '  Yasya  praydnam  anv  anye  id  yayur^  iti  \  Prajdpatir  vai 
etad  agre  harma  aharot  \  tat  tato  devdh  ahwoan  '  devah  devasya  mahimd- 
namojasd'  iti  \  ycy'no  vai  mahimd  \  devdh  devasya  yqjnarhvtryam"  ojasa" 
ity  etad  \  ^yah  parthivdni  vimame  sa  etasah'  iti  |  yad  vai  Jcincha  asydm 
Рќа  tat  pdrthivam  tad  esha  sarvam  vimimUe  |  rasmibhir  hy  enad  alhyavatanoti  \ 
'  rajdmsi  devah  Savita  mahiivand '  iti  \  ime  vai  lolcah  rajdmsi  \  asdv 
Adityo  devah  Savita  )  tdn  esha  mahimnd  vimimite  |  "'Whose  course 
the  other  gods  have  followed.'  Prajapati  formerly  performed  this  rite. 
The  gods  afterwards  did  it,  [according  to  the  words]  '  the  gods  [followed] 
his  [display  of]  power  with  vigour.'  Power  means  sacrifice.  This, 
[then,  is  said,  that]  the  gods  [followed]  the  sacrifice,  the  energy,  of  the 
god  with  vigour.  '  He  who  measured  out  the  terrestrial  [regions]  is  a 
steed.'  Whatever  is  on  this  [earth]  is  terrestrial.  All  this  he  measures 
out :  for  he  stretches  over  [all]  this  with  his  rays.  '  The  god  Savitri 
[measured  out]  the  regions  by  his  power.'  These  worlds  are  the  regions : 
that  Aditya  (sun)  is  the  god  Savitri.  He  measures  them  out  by  his 
power." 

The  author  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana  introduces  the  words  parthivdni 
vimame  rajdmsi,  with  a  part  of  E..  V.  vii.  99,  2,  at  the  close  of  his  ac- 
count of  the  Dwarf  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  assigning  to  them,  however 
(whether  ignorantly,  or  knowingly),  a  different  meaning  from  that 
which  they  have  in  the  hymn, Рђћ Bhag.  Pur.  viii.  23,  29  :  Pdram  ma- 
himnah  uru-vilcramato grindno  yah pdrthivdni  vimame  sa  rajdmsi  martyah\ 
Mm  jdyamdnah  utajdtah  upaiti  martyah  ity  aha  mantradrig  rishihpuru- 


HYMN  OMv.  OF  THE  FIEST  BOOK  OF  THE  EIGVEDA.  73 

sJiasya  yasya  \  ' '  The  mortal  who  celebrates  the  utmost  limits  of  this  wide- 
striding  (Vishnu's)  greatness,  computes  the  [particles  of  the]  dust  of  the 
earth.  Can  'the  mortal  who  is  being  bom,  or  has  been  born,'  attain  to 
it  ?     Thus  speaks  the  rishi  who  saw  a  hymn  regarding  this  Purusha." 

This  verse  is  explained  by  the  commentator  thus :  TTru  hahu  vihra- 
mato  Vishnor  mahimnah  pdram  yo  grinano  Ihmiati  sa  martyah  par- 
thivdni  rajamsy  wpi  vimame  ganitavan  \  yatM  pdrthiva-paramdnu-gana- 
nam  aiakyam  tathd  Vishnor  guna-gamnam  ahalcyam  ity  artJMh  \  tatha 
'cha  mantro  '  Vishnor  nu  ham  viryani'  iti  \  etad  eva  mantrdntwrdrtham 
suchayann  aha  yasya  pwrushasya  purnor-mahimnaJi  pdram  mantra-drig 
rishir  Vasishthah  ity  evam  dha  \  katham  \  Mm  jdyamdno  jdto  vd  upaiti 
na  ho'  pi  iti  vadann  anantatvena  eva  aha  ity  arthah  \  tathd  cha  mantro 
'  na  te  Vishno  jdyamdno  najdto  deva  mahimnah  par  am  antam  dpa^  iti  \ 
"The  mortal  who  celebrates  the  utmost  limits  of  the  greatness  of  the 
wide-striding  Vishnu,  has  computed  also  the  particles  of  the  dust  of 
the  earth,  ^he  meaning  is,  as  the  computation  of  the  atoms  of  the 
earth  is  impossible,  so  also  the  enumeration  of  Vishnu's  qualities  is 
impossible.  Thus  a  hymn  (R.  V.  1,  154)  says:  '  I  declare  the  heroic 
deeds  of  Vishnu,'  etc.  Alluding  to  the  sense  of  another  verse  (E.  V. 
vii.  99,  2),  he  says  the  same  thing  in  these  words :  '  regarding  the 
utmost  limit  of  the  full  greatness  of  which  Purusha,  Vasishtha,  the 
seer  of  the  hymn,  thus  speaks : '  How  ?  '  Can  any  man  being  born, 
or  already  born,  attain  it?'  No  one.  By  this  expression  he  in- 
timates its  infinitude.  Thus  the  hymn  says :  No  one  who  is  being 
born,  or  has  been  born,  has  attained,  0  divine  Vishnu,  to  the  furthest 
limit  of  thy  greatness." 

The  sixth  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  is  thus  commented  on  in  the 
Nirukta,  ii.  6,  7 :  Sarve  ^pi  rasmayo  gdvah  uchyante  |  .  .  .  tdni  vdm 
vdstuni  kdmaydmahe  gamandya  yatra  gdvo  hhuri-iringdh  .  .  .  ayaso 
'yandh  |  tatra  tad  urugdyasya  Vishnor  mahdgateh  paramam  padam 
pardrdhyastham  avaihdti  bhuri  |  "All  rays  are  called  gdvah."  Then, 
after  quoting  the  verse,  the  author  proceeds  to  explain  it:  "We  desire 
to  attain  to  these  regions  of  you  two,  where  are  the  many-horned  cows, 
.  .  .  the  moving.  There  the  highest  abode,  situated  in  the  loftiest  sphere, 
of  that  wide-stepping,  large-pacing,  Vishnu  shines  forth  brightly." 

The  verse  is  rendered  thus,  by  Eoth  (Illustrations  of  Nir.,  p.  19) : 
"  May  we  arrive  at  your  abodes,  where  the   many-homed,  moving, 


74     HYMN  ADDRESSED  TO  INDEA  AND  VISHNtT  CONJOINTLY. 

cattle  are ;  for  thence  sUnes  brilliantly  down  the  highest  place  of  the 
far-striding  Showerer."  Eoth  then  proceeds  to  remark  :  "  This  verse 
occurs  in  a  hymn  to  Vishnu ;  consequently  the  dual  vdm  ['  of  you 
two']  cannot  refer  to  the  deity  of  the  hymn.  Durga  meets  the  diffi- 
culty, as  the  commentators  frequently  do  with  inconvenient  duals,  by 
saying  vam  iti  dampatl  ahhipretya,  etc.  [_^vdm  refers  to  the  husband 
and  his  wife.']  But  here  we  have  rather  a  proof  of  the  fact  that,  in 
the  arrangement  of  the  Yeda,  many  verses  have  been  inserted  in  wrong 
places.  The  verse  is  addressed  to  Mitra  and  Varuna ;  and,  perhaps, ' 
belonged  to  one  of  the  hymns  to  those  two  gods  which  immediately 
precede  this  in  the  Sanhita.  The  verse  has  been  introduced  into  the 
wrong  place  because  Vishnu  is  referred  to  in  it.  Compare  verse  3. 
The  inconvenient  reading  has  been  already  altered  in  the  Vajasaneyi 
Sanhita  (6,  3),"  which,  instead  of  ta  vdm  vdstuny  usmasi  gamaihyai, 
"  we  desire  to  go  to  these  abodes  of  you  two,"  etc.,  reads,  ya  te  dhd- 
mdny  usmasi,  etc.,  "to  which  realms  of  thine  we  desire,"  etc.,  etc. 
In  the  next  hymn  Indra  and  Vishnu  are  jointly  extolled  : 
E.  V.  i.  155. Рђћ Pra  vah  pdntam^  andhaso  dhiyayate  make  ^urdya 
Vishnave  cha  a/rchata  \  yd  sdnuni  parvatdndm  addhhyd  mahas  tasthatur 
arvateva  tddhund  \  2.  Tvesham  itthd  samaranam'^  iimivator  Indra- 
Vishnu  suia-pdh  vdm  urushyati  \  yd  martydya  partidhiyamdnam  it  hri- 
idnor  asiur  asandm  v/rmhyathah  j  3.  Tuh  im  vardhanti  mahi  asya  paufii- 
syaih  ni  mdtard  nayati  retase  hhufe  \  dadhdti  putro  avaram  pa/ram  pitur 
ndma  tritlyam  adhi  rochane  divah  \  4.  Tat  tad  id  asya  paumsyaM  gri- 
nimasi  inasya  trdtwr  avrikasya  milhushah  |  yah  pdrthivdni  trilhir  id 
vigdmalhir  uru  Icramishtorugdydya  jivase  \  5.  Dve  id  asya  Itramant 
svardriio  alMhhydya  ma/rtyo  Ihuranyati  |  tritiyam  asya  nakir  a  da- 
dharshati  vaya^  chana  patayantah  patatrinah  \  6.  Chaturbhih  sdkam 
navatincha  ndmabhiS  chahram  na  vrittam  vyatm  amvipat  \  hrihachofiha- 
rlro  vimimdnah  rihvabhir  yuvd  ^Icumdrah  prati  eti  dhavam  \ 

"Sing  praises  to  the  great  hero  (Indra),  who  desires  the  draught  of 
your  soma,  and  to  Vishnu,  who  both  swiftly  rose  invincible,  to  the 
summit  of  the  [aerial]  mountains,  as  if  [carried  by]  an  excellent  steed. 
2.  Indra  and  Vishnu,  the  drinker  of  the  libation  escapes  the  assault,  so 
fierce,  of  you   two  who    are  violent, Рђћ who   avert  from    the  [pious] 

^*  P5ntam=pamyam. Рђћ Nir.  vii.  25. 

'=  (S┬Фmaranam  i.  =8angrama-nama. Рђћ Nigh.  2,  17, 


HYMN  TO  VISHNU.  75 

mortal  .that  whicli  is  aimed  at  tim, Рђћ tie  bolt  of  the  archer  Kriianu. 
3.  These  [libations,  according  to  Sayana]  augment  his  Tirility ;  he  con- 
ducts the  parents  (heaven  and  earth)  to  receive  the  fertilizing  seed ; 
the  son  has  the  inferior  name ;  the  superior  belongs  to  the  father ;  ihe 
third  is  above  the  light  of  heaven.  4.  We  celebrate  this  virility  of 
him,  the  strong,  the  deliverer,  the  innoxio^us,  the  bountiful,  who  with 
three  steps  "traversed"'  far  and  wide  the  mundane  regions,  for  the  sake 
of  [granting  us]  a  prolonged  {Ui.  wide-stepping)  existence."  5.  A 
mortal  is  agitated  when  contemplating  two  of  the  steps  of  this  heavenly 
[deity]  ;  but  no  one  dares  to  attemjjt  his  third  step,"*  not  even  the  soar- 
ing, winged  birds.  6.  "With  four  and  ninety  names,  he  has  impelled 
his  steeds,  like  a  rolling  wheel.  Accoutred  by  his  encomiasts,  vast  in 
body,  the  youthful,  full-grown  [deity],  advances  to  the  combat." 

E.  V.  1,  156. Рђћ Bhma  mitro  na  ^evyo  ghritasutir  vibhuta-dyumnah 
evayah  u  BoprathsJi  \  adha  te  Vishno  vidusha  chid  urdhyah  stomo  yqjnaioha 
radhyo  havishmatd  |  2.  Yah  purvydya  vedhase  naviyase  sumcyjanaye 
Vishnave  daddkati  \  yo  jdtam  asya  mahato  mahi  hravat  sa  id  u  iravobhir 
yvjyam  chid  abhi  asat  \  3.  Tom  u  stotdrah  purvyam  yathd  vida  ritasya 
garbham  janushd  pipartuna  \  d  asya  jdnanto  nama  chid  vivalctana  mahas 
te  Vishno  sumatim  bhajdmahe  \  4.  Tarn  asya  rdjd  Varunas  tarn  Asvind 
kratum  sachanta  mdrutasya  vedhasah  \  dadhdra  daksham  uttamam  ahar- 
vidaffi  wajam  cha  Vishnur  sakhivan  apornute  \  5.  A  yo  vivdya  sacha- 
thdya  daivyah  Indrdya  Vishnuh  sukrite  sukrittarah  |  vedhdh  ajinvat  tri- 
shadhasthah  dryam  ritasya  bhdge  yajamdndm  a  bhajat  \ 

"Be  to  us  beneficent  like  a  friend,  worshipped  with  butter,  greatly 
renowned,  swiftly-moving,  broadly  diffused.  Truly,  Yishnu,  thy 
praise  is  to  be  celebrated  by  the  sage,  and  sacrifice  is  to  be  performed 
to  thee  by  the  worshipper.  2.  He  who  worships  Vishnu,  the  ancient, 
the  disposer  [or  the  wise],  the  recent,  the  [god]  with  the  noble 
spouse,''' Рђћ ^he  who  extols  the  nature  of  this  mighty  Being,  shall  excel 

26  Compare  E.  V.  i.  22,  17,  18  (above,  p.  63,  f.),  and  E.  V.  i.  Ui,  1,  3  (p.  69). 

"  Compare  E.  V.  vi.  69,  6  (below). 

"*  See  E.  V.  vii.  99,  1,  below. 

^^  Sayana  gives  two  explanations  of  tie  word  sumaj-jani.  The  first  makes  it 
svayam  evotpannaya,  "born  by  his  own  power"  (in  proof  of  Рќаwhich  sense  he  quotes 
Nir.  vi.  22:  Sumat  svayam  ity  arthah\  "sumat  means  svayam,  self").  The 
second  meaning  is  thns  stated  :  Sutaram  madayati  Ui  sumat  \  tadris'i  jaya  yasya 
sa  .  .  .  .    I  tasmai  sarva-jagan-madana-stla-S'ri-pataye  |  " su-mat  means  ' greatly 


76  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  IN  WHICH 

his  friend'''  in  renown.  3.  Encomiasts,  satisfy  [with  worship],  as  ye 
know  how  to  do,  him  who,  by  his  nature,  is  the  primeval  source  of 
sacred  rites.  Knowing  his  name  declare,  '  Vishnu,  we  enjoy  the  good 
will  of  thee,  the  mighty  one.'  4.  King  Varuna  and  the  A^vins  have 
done  homage  to  the  power  of  this  ruler  [or  wise  god]  who  is  attended 
by  the  Maruts,  Vishnu  possesses  excellent  wisdom,  which  knows  the 
proper  day;'"  and  with  his  friends,  opens  up  the  cloud.  5.  The  divine 
Vishnu,  who  has  hastened  to  seek  companionship  with  the  beneficent 
Indra,  [himself]  more  beneficent, Рђћ this  wise  [god],  occupying  three 
stations,  has  gratified  the  Arya,  and  renders  the  worshipper  a  sharer 
in  the  sacred  ceremony." 

E.  V.  i.  164,  36  (A.  V.  9,  10,  17  ;  Mr.  Par.  ii.  21).РђћSttpta  ardha- 
garhhah  hhuvanasya  reto  Vishnos  tishthanti  pradUa  vidha/rmani  \  te 
dhitibhir  manasa  te  vipaichitah  paribhuvah  pari  hha/oanti  visvatah  \ 
"  Seven  embryos,  the  prolific  sources  of  the  world,  abide  by  the  com- 
mand of  Vishnu  in  the  function  of  supporting  [the  universe].  They 
by  thought,  and  by  mind,  they  intelligent,  embracing,  comprehend  all 
things." 

I  do  not  attempt  any  explanation  of  this  obscure  and  mystical 
utterance. 

E,.  V.  i.  186,  10. Рђћ Pro  Aivinav  avase  Tcrinudhvam  pra  Pushanam 
svatmaso  hi  santi  \  advesho  Vishnur  Vatah  Rihhuhhdh  aohha  sumnaya 
vavritiya  demn  \  "Dispose  the  A^vins,  dispose  Pushan,  to  succour  us, 
for  they  have  power  in  themselves.  Vishnu  is  free  from  malice,  and  so 
is  Vata  (Vayu)  and  Eibhukshan.  May  I  incline  the  gods  to  be  favourable 
to  us." 

R.  V.  ii.  1,  3. Рђћ Tvam  Ague  Indro  vriskabhah  satani  asi  tvam  Vishnur 

gladdening.'  SumaJ-jani  then  signifies  '  one  who  has  such  a  -wife.'  The  phrase 
will  thus  mean,  '  to  the  lord  of  S'rl,  whose  nature  it  is  to  gladden  the  world. ' "  Dr. 
Aufrecht  thinks  tlj^t  Jani  has  always  the  sense  of  wife,  and  supposes  the  wife  here 
alluded  to  to  he  the  world.  Prof.  Eoth,  lUust.  of  Nir.,  p.  90,  supposes  sumat  to  be 
derived  from  su,  and  to  mean  "  easily,"  "  gladly." 

"  Compare  the  words  f/ujyo  va  saJeha  va  in  E.  V.  ii.  28,  10,  where  yujya  is 
explained  by  Sayana  as=yojana-samarthah  pitradir  va;  and  E.  V.  i.  22,  19,  where 
the  same  word  yujya  is  said  to  be  equivalent  to  anukula,  "  friendly."  Compare  also 
ayuja  in  E.  V.  viii.  61,  2. 

'"  See  the  interpretation  of  the  word  aharvid  given  by  Sayana  on  E.  V.  i.  2,  2. 
In  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Dictionary  the  word  is  explained  as  signifying  "long 
kuown." 


VISHNtT  IS  MENTIONED.  77 

urugayo  namasyah  \  tvam  hrahma  rayivid  Brahmamspate  tvam  vidhartah 
saohase  pv/randkya  \  "  Thou,  Agni,  art  Indra,  most  energetic  of  heroes ; 
thou  art  Vishnu,  the  wide-stepping,  the  adorable ;  thou,  Brahmanaspati, 
art  a  priest,  possessor  of  wealth ;  thou,  sustainer,  art  associated  with 
sacred  wisdom." 

E.V.  ii.  22,  1  (S.V.  i.  457). Рђћ Trihadrukeshu  mahisho  yavaii/ram  tuvi- 
iushmas  tripat  somam  apilad  Vishnuna  sutam  yatha  'iiaiat  \  sa  im  ma- 
mada  mahi  karma  kartave  maham  urufh  sa  enam  sa^chad  devo  devam 
stttyam  Indram  satyah  Induh  \  "The  great  [Indra],  of  mighty  force, 
satiating  himself,  has  drunk  the  soma,  mixed  with  barley-meal,  poured 
forth  by  Vishnu  at  the  Trikadrulia  ceremony,  as  much  as  he  desired. 
He  [Soma]  has  stimulated  the  great  and  vast  [god,  Indra,]  to  achieve 
mighty  acts.  He,  the  god,  the  true  Indu  (Soma),  has  attended  him, 
the  god,  the  true  Indra." 

E.V.  iii.  6,  4. Рђћ Mohan  sadhasthe  dhruve  a  nishatto  antar  dyava  ma- 
Mne  haryamanah  \  askre  sapatni  ajare  amrikte  salardughe  urwgayasya^^ 
dhenu  \  "  The  great  [god,  Agni,]  is  seated  in  his  firm  abode,  beloved, 
between  the  mighty  heaven  and  earth, Рђћ those  two  cows,  joint-wives  of 
the  wide-stepping  [god],  united,  undecaying,  inviolable,  dispensers  of 
water."    Agni  himself  may  be  the  "wide-stepping  god"  intended  here. 

E.  V.  iii.  54,  14. Рђћ  Vishnufn  stomasah  puru-dasmam  arkah  bhagasyeva 
karino  yamani  gman  \  urukramah  kakuho  yasya  purvir  na  mardhanti 
ywoatayo  janitrih  \  "  Our  hjmns  and  praises  have  proceeded  to  Vishnu, 
the  worker  of  many  wonders,  like  bards  proceeding  in  the  train  of  their 
lord.  He  is  the  wide-stepping,  the  exalted,  whose  [wiU]  the  numerous, 
youthful,  mothers  do  not  disregard." 

E.  V.  iii.  55,  10. Рђћ  Vishnur  gopalf  paramam  pati  pdthah^'^  priyd 
dhamani  amritd  dadhanah  \  Agnis  td  visvd  hhwvandni  veda  mahad 
devdndm  asuratvam  ekam  \  "  Vishnu,  a  protector,  preserves  the  highest 
heaven,  sustaining  the  dear,'*  undecaying  regions.  Agni  knows  all  these 
worlds  :  great  and  incomparable  is  the  divine  nature  of  the  gods." 

"  FrithugamoMMya  adhilca-stuter  m;  Sayana,  who  names  Agni  as  the  god; 
though  he  makes  heaven  and  earth  to  be  the  wives  of  the  sun. 

32  Compare  R.  V.,  i.  22,  18.  The  word  Vishnu  is  here  regarded  by  the  commen- 
tator as  an  epithet  of  Agni,  and  rendered  by  "pervading."  The  hymn  is,  however, 
according  to  the  Anukramanika,  one  addressed  to  all  the  gods. 

''  fathah  occurs  also  in  R.  V.  i.  154,  5.     See  above. 

3*  Or,  "  vast."  The  commentator  renders  the  word  priya  by  aparimita,  "unmea- 
sured," in  his  note  on  R.  V.  iii.  32,  7. 


78         TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVEDA  AND  TAITTIEITA  SANHITA 

E.  V.  iv.  2,  4. Рђћ Aryamanam  Vwrmam  Mitram  mhSm  Indra-  Vishnu 
Maruto  Aivina  uta  \  su-asva  Agne  su-rathah  su-rddhah  a  id  u  vaha  su- 
havishe  janaya  \  "Agni,  [do  thou,  who  hast]  beautiful  steeds,  a  heau- 
tiful  car,  and  [bestowest]  rich  gifts,  bring  to  the  pious  worshipper 
from  among  these  [gods],  Aryaman,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra  and  Vishnu, 
the  Maruts,  and  the  Asvins  "  (comp.  E.  V.  Tii.  39,  5,  below). 

E.V.  iv.  3,  7. Рђћ Katha  make  pushtim-hharaya  Pushne  lead  Rudraya 
sumahhaya  hmiir-de  \  had  Vishnave  v/ru-gayaya  reto^'  Iravah  had  Agne 
S'arave  Irihatyai  \  "Why,  Agni,  [shouldst  thou  declare  our  sin]  to 
the  great  supplier  of  nourishment,  Pushan  ?  why  to  Eudra,  the  vigorous, 
the  giver  of  oblations  ?  why  shouldst  thou  declare  our  sin  to  the  wide- 
stepping  Vishnu?  why  to  the. great  S'aru  (Mrriti?)." 

E.V.  iv.  18,  11. Рђћ  Vta  mdtd  mahisham  anvmenad  ami  tva  jahati  putra 
devah  I  Atha  ahravld  Vritram  Indro  hanishyan  salcke  Vishno  vitaram 
mhramasva  \  "  And  his  mother  sought  to  draw  back  the  mighty  [Indra], 
saying,  '  My  son,  those  gods  forsake  thee.'  Then  Indra,  being  about 
to  slay  Vritra,  said,  'Friend  Vishnu,  do  thou  stride  vastly.'" 

The  last  words  of  this  verse  form  the  commencement  of  the  12th 
verse  of  the  89th  hymn  of  the  8th  Mandala,  which  I  shall  introduce 
here. 

E.  V.  viii.  S9,  12. Рђћ SaMe   Vishno  vitarafh  vHcramasva  dyaur  dehi 

lokam  vajraya  vishkahhe  \  hanava  Vritram,  rinachdva  sindhun  Indrdsya 

.  yantu  prasave  visrishtah  \  "  'Friend  Vishnu,  stride  vastly;'  Sky,  give 

room  for  the  thunderbolt  to  descend  ;  let  us  slay  Vritra,  and  let  loose 

the  waters ;  let  them,  when  released,  flow  by  the  impulse  of  Indra."  ^* 

35  Dr.  Aufreclit  suggesfB  that  the  original  reading  here  may  have  been  repas  =agas, 
"sin."  But  as  the  text  stands  he  would  connect  retas  with  sarave,  so  as  to  give 
the  sense,  "our  sin  (understood),  which  is  the  occasion  for  the  great  arrow  of 
destruction."     Bohtlingk  and  Eoth  render  retas  by  "  libation." 

36  The  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  4,  12,  2,  has  the  following  story  about  Indra  and 
Vishnu :  Tasmad  Indro  'bibhed  api  Tvashta  \  Tvashta  tasmai  vajram  astnchat  \  iapo 
vai  sa  vajrah  asJt  |  tarn  udyantim  na  asahnot  |  atha  vai  tarhi  Vishnur  ofiya  devata 
aslt  I  so  'bramd  "  VishnoAi  ehiidam  aharishyavo  yena  ayam  idam"  iti  \  sa  Vishnus 
tredha  atmanam  mnyadhatta  prithivyam  tritlyam  antarikshe  trWiyam  divi  tritryam  \ 
abhiparyavartad  hy  abibhet  \  yat  pritliivyam  tritTyam  aslt  tena  Indro  vajram  uda- 
yachhad  Vishm-anushthitah  \  so  'brav'id  "ma  me  praKah  \  asti  vai  idam  mayi 
V!ryam  |  tat  te  pradasyami"  iti  \  tad  asmai  prayachhat  \  tat  pratyagrihriat]  "adhah 
ma"  iti  tad  Vishnave  ' tiprayachhat  |  tad  Vishnuh  pratyagrihnad  "asmSsv  IndraA 
indriyam  dadhatv"  iti  \  yad  antarikshe  trifiyam  aslt  tena  Indro  vajram  udayachhad 
Vishnv-anushthitah  \  so  'bravld  "ma  me  prahah  [  asti  vai  idam  mayi  vTryam  \  tat 


RELATING  TO  INDEA  AND  YISHNU.  79 

R.  V.  iy.  55,4. Рђћ  Yi  Aryama  Varums  cheti pantham  tshas-patih  au- 
vitafh  gatum  Agnih  \  Indra-  Vishnu  nri-vad  u  shu  stavdna  sarma  no  yan- 
tam  amavad  varutham  \  "  Aryaman  and  Varuna  know  the  path ;  so  too 
Agni,  the  lord  of  strength  [knows]  a  prosperous  road.  Indra  and 
Vishnu,  when  ye  are  lauded,  according  to  human  ability,  bestow  on  us 
prosperity  and  strong  protection." 

E.V.  V.  3,  1-3. Рђћ Tvam  Agne  Varunojayase  yat  tvam  Mitro  hhavasi 
yat  samiddah  \  tve  visve  sahasas-putra  devds  tvam  Ind/ro  dasushe  mart- 

te  pradasyami"  iti  |  tad  asmai  prayachhat  \  tat  pratyagrihnat  \  "dvir  ma  adhah"' 
Hi  tad  Vishnave  atiprayachhat  \  tad  Vishnuh  pratyagrihnad  "  asmasv  Indrah  indriyam 
dadhatv "  iti  |  yad  divi  tritlyam  asJt  tena  Indrro  vajram  udayachhad  Vishnv-anu- 
shthitah  I  so  ^bra/oid  ma  me  prahah  |  yena  aham  idam  asmi  **  tat  te  pradasyami" 
iti  I  "tvi"  ity  airavit  |  "sandhdm  tu  sandadhavahai  |  tvam  eva  pravis'Sni"  iti\ 
"  yan  mam  pravis'eh  Mm  ma  bhunjyah  '*  ity  abravtt  \  '*  tvam  eva  indhTya  tava  hhogaya 
tvam  praviieyam"  ity  abramt  \  tarn  Vritrah  pravis'at  |  udaramvai  Vritrah  \  Tcshut 
khalu  vai  manuahyasya  bhrairivyah  \  yah  evam  veda  hanti  kshiodham  bhratrivyam  \ 
tad  asmai  prayachhat  \  tat  pratyagrihnat  \  "  trir  ma  'dhdh "  iti  tad  Vishnave 
'tiprayachhat  \  tad  Vishnuh  pratyagrihnad  "asmasv  Indrah  indriyam  dadhatv"  iti\ 
yat  trih  prayachhat  trih  pratyagrihnat  tat  tridhatos  tridhatutvam  |  yad  Vishnur 
anvatishthata  Vishnave  'tiprayachhat  tasmad  Aindravaishnavam  havir  bhavati\ 
"  Indra  was  afraid  of  him,  as  was  also  Tvashtri.  Tvashtri  moistened  for  him  the 
thunderbolt:  it  was  heat  or  austere-fervour  (tapas).  He  could  not  lift  it.  Now 
there  was  another  deity,  Vishnu.  India  said :  '  Come,  Vishnu,  we  two  will  take 
that  whereby  he  is  this  [which  he  is].'  Vishnu  divided  himself  into  three  parts, 
[placing]  one  on  earth,  a  second  in  the  air,  and  a  third  in  the  sky.  For  he  was 
afraid  of  [Vritra's]  development  {abhiparyavartat :  yasmad  asya  Vritrasya  abhi- 
paryavartat  sarva-dig-vyapi-rupayah  vriddher  ayam  Indro  'bibhet,  Comm.).  With  the 
third  [of  Vishnu]  which  was  on  the  earth,  Indra  lifted  the  thunderbolt,  followed  by 
Vishnu.  Vritra  said,  '  Do  not  smite  me :  there  is  in  me  this  energy :  that  I  will 
give  to  thee.'  He  gave,  and  Indra  took  it,  and' passed  it  on  to  Vishnu,  [saying,] 
'  Thou  hast  supported  me.'  Vishnu  received  it,  [saying],  '  May  Indra  impart  energy 
to  us.'  Indra  then  lifted  the  thunderbolt  with  the  third  [of  Vishnu]  which  was  in 
the  air,''  etc.,  as  before.  "  Indra  passed  it  on  to  Vishnu,  saying,  '  Thou  hast  twice 
supported  me,'  "  etc.  "  Indra  then,  followed  by  Vishnu,  lifted  the  thunderbolt  with 
the  third  [of  Vishnu]  which  was  in  the  sky.  Vritra  said,  '  Do  not  smite  me ;  I  will 
give  thee  that  whereby  I  am  that  [which  I  am].'  Indra  agreed.  '  Let  us  make  an 
agreement ;  let  me  enter  into  thee '  [said  Vritra].  '  If  thou  enterest  me,  wilt  thou 
eat  me  p '  [replied  Indra].  '  I  will  kindle  thee ;  I  will  enter  thee  for  thy  enjoyment ' 
[answered  Vritra].  He  accordingly  entered  into  him.  Vritra  is  the  belly.  Hunger 
is  man's  enemy.  He  who  knows  this  slays  his  enemy.  So  Vritra  gave  Indra  [that 
whereby  he  was  what  he  was].  Indra  took  it,  [and  saying,]  '  Thou  hast  thrice 
supported  me,'  passed  it  on  to  Vishnu,"  etc.,  etc.,  as  before.  "  From  the  circum- 
stance that  the  one  god  gave,  and  the  other  took  [what  was  given],  thrice,  the 
'tridhatu'  derives  its  character.  And  from  the  fact  that  Vishnu  followed  Indra, 
and  the  latter  passed  on  [what  he  had  received]  to  the  former,  there  is  an  oblation 
called  '  Aindravaishnava,'  i.e.  common  to  both  the  gods." 


80  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  EELATINQ 

yaya  \  2.  Tvam  Aryama  hhavasi  yat  Icamnam  ndma  svadhavan  guhyam, 
hibharsJd  \  anjanti  mitram  sudhitaih  na  gobhir  yad  dampati  samanasa 
krinosM  |  3.  Tava  iriye  Maruto  marjayanta^''  Rudra  yat  tejamina  oharu 
chitram  \  padam  yad  Vishnor  upamam,  nidhayi  Una  pdsi  guhyam  nama 
gondm  \ 

"Thou,  Agni,  [art]  Yaruna,  when  thou  art  born;  thou  art  Mitra 
when  thou  art  kindled :  son  of  strength,  in  thee  [reside]  all  the  gods  ; 
thou  art  Indra  to  the  man  who  sacrifices.  2.  Thou  art  Aryaman  when 
thou,  self-sustaining,  posaessest  the  mysterious  name  of  the  maidens. 
Men  anoint  thee,  like  a  benevolent  friend,  with  mUk,  when  thou  makest 
the  husband  and  wife  to  be  of  one  mind.  3.  For  thy  glory,  Eudra,  [or, 
terrible  Agni],  the  Maruts  have  adorned  themselves,  such  is  that 
beautiful  and  wondrous  birth  of  thine.^'  Through  that  which  has  been 
fixed  as  the  highest  abode  of  Vishnu,  thou  possessest  the  mysterious 
name  of  the  cows." 

E.V.  V.  46,  2-4  (=Vaj.  S.  33,  48,  49). Рђћ Agne  Indra  Varuna  Mitra 
devdh  sardhah  pra  yanta  Maruta  uta  Vishno  \  uhhd  Ndsatyd  Rudro  adha 
gndh  Pushd  Bhagah  Sarasvati  jushanta  |  3.  Indrdgni  Mitra-  Varund 
Aditifh  svah  prithivlm,  dydm  Marutah  parvatdn  apah  \  huve  Vishnum 
Pushanam  Brahmanaspatim  Bhagam  nu  Saihsam  Savitdram  utaye  \ 
4.  Zrta  no  Vishnur  uta  Vdto  asridho  dravinoddh  uta  Soma  mayas 
Tear  at  \  uta  Rilhavah  uta  rdye  no  ASvind  nfa  Tvaahtd  uta  Vilhvd  anu 
mamsate  \ 

2.  "Agni,  Yaruna,  Mitra,  ye  gods,  give  us  strength,  and  thou 
Yishnu  with  the  Maruts.  Both  the  Asvins,  Eudra,  and  the  wives  of 
the  deitiesj  with  Pushan,  Bhaga,  and  Saraavati,  are  pleased.  3.  I  invoke 
Indra  and  Agni,  Mitra  and  Varuna,  Aditi,  Heaven,  Earth,  Sky,  the 
Maruts,  the  Mountains,  the  "Waters,  Vishnu,  Pushan,  Brahmanaspati ; 
I  praise  Bhaga  and  Savitri,  that  they  may  succour  us.  4.  And  may 
Yishnu,  and  the  Wind,  uninjuring,  and  Soma,  the  bestower  of  riches, 
give  us  happiness.  And  the  Eibhus,  Asvins,  Tvashtri,  and  Vibhvan 
are  favourable  to  lis,  so  as  to  [grant  us]  wealth." 

E.V.  V.  51,  9. Рђћ Saj'ur  Mitra- Varunabhy dm  sajuh  Somena  Vishnund  \ 
d  ydhi  Agne  Atri-vat  sute  rana  \  "Associated  with  Mitra  and  Varuna, 

"  Compare  R.  V.  vii.  3,  5. 

'8  This  refers,  Dr.  Aufreclit  suggests,  to  the  production  of  lightning  in  the  air  at 
the  time  of  a  storm. 


TO  VISHNU,  INDRA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  81 

associated  with  Soma  and  Vishnu,  come  Agni,  and  rejoice  in  pur  liba- 
tion, as  [in  that  of  ]  Atri." 

E.  V.  V.  87,  1  (S.  V.  i.  462). Рђћ Pra  vo  make  maljayo  yantu  Vishnave 
Marutvate  giryah  eva/yamarut  \  pra  ^cwdhdya  prayajyme  sukhddaye  ta- 
vase  hhandad-ishtaye  dhuni-vratdya  ^avase  \  .  .  .  .  4.  Sa  ehakrame  ma- 
hato  nir  v/ru-liramah  samdnasmdt  sadasah  evaydmarut  \  yadd  ayuhta 
tmand  svdd  adhi  shn<uhhir  mshpardhaso  mmahaso  jigdtihvridho  nribhih  \ 
....  8.  Advesho  no  Maruto  gatufn  d  ilam  irqta  ]im;am  ja/ritur  evayd- 
ma/rut  |  Vishnqr  mahah  samanyavo  yuyotana  smad  rathyo  na  damand 
wpa  dveshdmsi  sanutah  \ 

"May  your  hill-horn  (or,  voice-bom)  hymns  proceed  to  the  great 
Vishnu,  attended  by  ,the  Maruts,  0  Evayamarut,  (swiftly-moving 
Marut?)  ;  and  to  the  troop  [of  Jlaruts],  impetuous,  wearing  beautiful 
rings,  strong,  rushing  on  exultingly, Рђћ to  that  power  which  delights  in 
resounding.  .  .  4.  The  wide-striding  [god]  strode  forth  from  the  great 
common  abode,  0  Evayamarut;  when  by  himseilf  he  has  yoked  his 
icmulous  and  vigorous  [steeds],  he  issues  from  his  own  [abode]  with 
his  swift  heroes,  augmenting  our  felicity.  .  .  .8.  Maruts,  come  in  a 
friendly  spirit  to  our  song,  hear  the  invocation  of  your  worshipper, 
Evayamarut;  of  the  same  mind,  with  the  great  Vishnu,  like  men  riding 
in  chariots,  drive  our  enemies  away  far  from  us  by  your  might." 

The  hymn  from  which  these  verses  are  taken  is  quoted  and  trans- 
lated in  Prof.  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the  gama-veda,  p.  39, f. 

E.V.  vi.  17,  11. Рђћ  Fardhdn  yam  visve  Marutah  aajoshdh  pachat  iatam 
mahishdn  Indira  tubhytfm  \  Pushd  Vishnus  trini  sardmsi  dfidvan  vritra- 
hanam  madiram  amSupi:asmai  \  "  For  thee,  Indra,  whom  all  the  Maruts 
in  concert,  will  magnify,  Pflshanand  Vishnu  cooked  a  hundred  buffaloes. 
For  him  three  lakes  discharged  the  Vritra- slaying,  exhilarating  soma.'"' 

'9  To  illustrate  the  last  line,  Dr.  Aufreclit  has  pointed  out  to  me  another  passao-e 
E.  V.  yiii.  66,  4 :  Mat/a  pratidha  'pibal  aaham  saramai  irimsatam  \  Indrah  somasya 

Jtmrnka  \  "Indra  swallowed  at  one  draught  thirty  lakes  of  Soma.  .  .  ."  This  Terse  is 
quoted  in  Nir.  y.  11.  I  have  not  attempted  to  translate  the  difficult  word  kanu/ea 
at  the  close.  See  Roth's  lUust.  of 'Nir.  p.  60,  f.  In  a  review  of  Pictet's  Origines 
Indo-Europeennes,  vol.  ii.,  in_Kuhn  und  Schleicher's  Beitrage  zur  Vergl.  Spraoh- 

iorschung,  iv.  279,  f..  Prof.  "Weber  refers  to  this  passage.  "  Saras,  a  pond,"  he  says 
"in  the  sense  of  cup  (R.  V.  viii.  66,  4.  .  .  .),  which  reminds  us  of  the  'weltmeer' 
(world-ocean)  of  our  students,  is  no  doubt  merely  a  poetical  metaphor."  See  also 
E.  V.  vii.  103,  7  ;  viii.  7,  10."  In  R.V.  v.  29,  7  f.,  Agni  is  said  to  have  cooked 
three  hundred  buffaloes  for  Indra,  who  ate  theiji,  and  drank  three  lakes  of  soma 
when  proceeding  to  fight  with  Vfitra. 

vol,.   IV.  g 


82  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGYEDA  ADDRESSED 

E.  V.  vi.  20,  2. Рђћ Dim  na  tulhyam  anu  Indra  satra  asuryam  develhir 
dhayi  viivam  |  Ahim  yad  Vritram  apo  vavrivdmsam  harm  rijisMn  Fish- 
nund  sachdnah  \  "  All  divine  power,  like  that  of  the  Sky,  was  completely 
communicated  to  thee,  Indra,  by  the  gods,*"  when  thou,  0  impetuous 
[deity],  associated  with  Vishnu,  didst  slay  Vritra  Ahi,  stopping  up  the 
waters." 

E.V.  vi.  21,  9. Рђћ Pra  utaye  Varumm  Mitram  Indram  Marutah  Icrieli- 
va  avase  no  adya  \  pra  Pushamm  Vishnum  Agnim  Pwandhim  Savitdram 
oshadhih  panatdmicka  \  "Dispose  to-day  to  our  help  and  succour 
Varuna,  Mitra,  Indra,  the  Maruts,  Pushan,  Vishnu,  Agni,  Purandhi, 
Savitri,  the  plants  and  the  mountains." 

R.  V.  vi.  48,  14. Рђћ Tarn  vah  Indram  na  sukratum  Varumm  iva  mdyi- 
nam  \  Aryamanafh  na  mandram  sripra-"hhojasam  Vuhnum  na  dushe 
ddise  I  "I  praise  thee,  of  great  power  like  Indra,  wondrous  in  might 
like  Varuna,  pleasant  like  Aryaman,  conferring  large  enjoyment  like 
Vishnu,  that  thou  mayest  bestow  wealth."^'' 

E.V.  vi.  49,  13. Рђћ Yo  r^'dmsi  vimame^'  pdrthivdni  trU  chid  Vishnw 
Manave  Iddhitaya  \  tasya  te  ^armann  vpadadyamam  rdyd  madema  tamia 
tana  eha  \  "May  we,  ourselves  and  our  oifspring,  be  gladdened  by 
wealth,  under  the  protection  afforded  by  thee,  that  Vishnu  who  thrice 
traversed  the  mundane  regions  for  Manu  [or  the  Aryan  man]  when  he 
was  oppressed."" 

E.  V.  vi.  50,  12. Рђћ Te  no  Pudrah  Scwasvatl  siy'oshdh  milhushmanto 
Vishnur  mrilantu  Vdyuh  \  Rihhukshdh  Vdjo  daveyo  vidhdtd  Parjanydvdtd 
pipyatam  isham  nah  \  "  May  these  dispensers  of  blessings,  Eudra,  Saras- 
vatl,  Vishnu,  and  Vayu  together  be  gracious  to  us.  May  Eibhukshan, 
Vaja,  the  divine  Vidhatri  (or  disposer),  Parjanya  and  Vata  replenish 
our  store  of  nutriment." 

*"  Stotribhih,  "worshippers,"  according  to  Sayana. 

*>  The  word  sripra  occurs  also  in  E.  V.  i.  96,  3;  i.  181,  3;  iii.  18,  6;  iv.  50,  2; 
viii.  25,  5 ;  and  viii.  32,  10  =  S.  V.  i.  217.  By  Taska,  Nir.  Ti.  17,  it  is  derived  from 
the  root  srip,  "to  go"  (see  Roth's  Illust.,  p.  83);  and  is  rendered  by  Sayana 
sarpana-s'ila,  " going," prasrita,  "extended,"  etc.  (See  also  Benfey's  Glossary  to  the 
S.  V.)     The  word  visva-bhojasam  occurs  in  the  preceding  verse  vi.  48,  13. 

*^  Such  is  the  sense  assigned  to  adU  hy  Sayana :  in  Wilson's  Sanskrit  Dictionary 
I  find  the  word  pradedcmo  rendered  "  a  gift  or  offering,  anything  given  to  the  gods, 
superiors,  or  friends,"  etc. 

*'  Tribhir  eva  vikramamili  parimitavan  \  "  measured  with  three  strides." Рђћ Sayana. 
Compare  E.  V.  i.  154,  1,  above  (p.  69,  ff.),  and  vii.  100,  4,  below  (p.  87). 

"  Amrair  hiiksitaya  \  "  injured  by  Asuras." Рђћ Sayana. 


TO  VISHNU,  INDEA,  AND  OTHEE  DEITIES.  83 

R.  V.  vi.  69, 1-8. Рђћ Sam  vam  Jca/rmana  sam  isha  Mnomi  Ind/ra^  VishwH 
apasas  pare  asya  \  jushetMm  ycy'nam  d/rmimm  cha  dhattam  arishtair  nah 
pathibhih  parayantd  \  2.  Yd  visvasam  jcmitara  matmdm  Indrd-  Vishmi 
Jcalaia  soma-dhdnd  \  pra  vdm  girah  imyamana}}  mantu  pra  stomdso 
giyamdn&so  arhaih  \  3;  Indrd- Vishnu  mada-pati  maddndm  d  somam 
ydtarh  drcmino  dadhdnd  \  sam  vdm  anjantu  ahtubhir  matlndm  sa/m  stomd- 
sah  sasyamdndsah  uhthaih  \  4.  A  vdm  akvdso  dbhimdti-shdhah  Indra- 
Fishnu  sadhamddo  vahantu  \  jmhefhdfh  vUvd  havand  matindm  upa  Irah- 
mdni  irinwbam  giro  me  |  5.  Indrd-Vishnu  tat panaydyyam  vdm  somasi/a 
made  uru  chakramdthe  \  akrinutam  antarihshamva/rlyo  aprathatarh  fivase 
no  rajdmsi  \  6.  Indrd-Vishnu  havishd  vdvridhdnd  agrddvdnd  namasd 
rdtahavyd  |  ghritdsuti  dravinam  dhattam  asme  samudrah.  sthah  halaiah 
somadhdnah- 1  7.  Indrd-  Vishmi  pibatam  madhoo  asya  somasya  dasrd  ja- 
tharam  prinethdm  \  a  vam  andhdmsi  madirdni  agmann  wpa  Ira^imdni 
srimtam  havami  me  |  8.  (A.  Y.  7,  44,  1)  JTbhg,jigyathurnapardjayethe 
na  pard  jigye  Tca/taraiehanainoh  |  Indraidha  Vishm  yad  apaspridhethdm 
tredhd  sahasram  vi  tad  airayethdm  \ 

"India  and  Vishnu,  I  stimulate  you  twain  with,  this  rite  and 
oblation:  at  the  conclusion  ef  this  ceremony  do  ye  accept  our  sacrifice, 
and  grant  us  wealth,  conducting  us  to  our  object  by  secure  paths.  2. 
Indra  and  Yishnu,  ye  who  are  the  generators  of  all  prayers,  and  are, 
[as  i-t  were,]  the  bowls  which  hold  the  soma-juice,  may  the  words 
which  are  now  recited  gratify  you,  and  the  hymns  which  are  sung 
with  praises.  3.  Indra  and  Vishnu,  ye  two  lords  of  exhilarating 
draughts,  come  to  the  soma-juiee,  bringing  with  you  wealth ;  may  the 
hymns  uttered  with  praises  anoint  you"  twain  with  the  imguents  of 
our  prayers.  4.  Indra  and  Vishnu,  may  your  steeds,  vanquishing  foes, 
and  sharing  in  your  triumph,  bear  you  hither.  Accept  aU  the  invoca- 
tions of  our  hymns,  and  hear  my  devotions  and  prayers.  .5.  Indra  and 
Yishnu,  this  deed  of  you  twain  is  worthy  of  celebration,  that,  in  the 
exhilaration  of  the  soma-juice,  ye  took  vast  strides;^'  ye  made  the 


i  E.  V.  iii.  17, 1. 

*┬░  The  commentator  remarks,  on  tiis ;  Yadyapi  Vishnor  eva  mhramas  tafhSpj/  ehar- 
thatvad  ubhayor  ity  uchyate  \  "  THougli '  striding '  is  an  act  of  Visln.u  only,  yet  it 
is  so  [described  as  here]  owing  to  hoth  gods  having  one  end  in  view."  In  E.  V.  vii. 
99,  6  (see  below),  the  epithet  wrukrama,  "far-stepping,"  is  applied  in  the  same  way 
to  both  these  deities.     In  the  Harivansa,  7418,  it  is^applied  to  Siva. 


84  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  ADDRESSED 

atmosphere  wide,  and  stretched  out  the  worlds,  for  our  existence.**'  6. 
Indra  and  Vishnu,  gladdened  by  our  oblation,  ye  to  whom  are  due  the 
>>first  draughts  of  the  soma,  ye  to  whom  offerings  should  be  presented 
with  reverence,  and  to  whom  butter  is  offered,  bring  us  wealth,  for  ye 
are  the  ocean,  the  bowl  in  which  the  soma  is  held.  7.  Indra  and 
Vishnu,  workers  of  wonders,  drink  this  sweet  potion ;  fill  your  bellies 
with  soma;  the  exhilarating  soma^draughts  have  reached  you;  hear 
my  prayers  and  invocation.  8.  Ye  two  have  both  conquered,  and  are 
not  vanquished.  STeither  of  these  twain  has  been  vanquished .  Vishnu, 
when  thou  and  Indra  strove,  ye  scattered  thriee  a  thousand  ┬Бof  your 
foes]."┬Ф 

E.  V.  vii.  35,  9  (= A,  V.  xix.  10,  9). Рђћ Sam  no  AdMi/r  Ihavatu  vratebhih 
sain  no  Ihemantu  Marutah  su-arhah  \  iam  no  VisJmuh  sam  u  Pasha  no 
asiu  sam  no  hhmitraih  Sam  n  astu  Vayuh  \  "  May  Aditi  be  propitious  to 
us  with  her  acts  :  may  the  well-hymned  Maruts  be  propitious  to  us : 
may  Vishnu,  may  Pushan,  may  the  Air,**  may  Vayu,  be  propitious  to  us.'' 

"s*  Comp.  i.  165,  6,  above. 

*'  The  commentator  Explains  this  aS  follows .  Yad  yad  vastu  praty  apaspridhethdm 
asu/raih  saha  aspridhetMm  tredha  lo/ea-veda-vagStmana  tridha  nthitam  sahasram  ami- 
tam  cha  vi  tad  airayetham  vyakrametham  ity  arthah  |  tatha  eha  brahmcmam  ubha 
jigyathv/r  ity  achchhmahasya  \  ubhau  hi  tau  jigyathur  na  parajayethe  na  parajigye 
Рќаiti  na  hi  iayoh  hataraichana  pafajigye  '  Indras  eha  Vishno  yad  apaspridhetham  tredha 
mhasram  vi  tad  airayetham'  iti  |  Indrai  eha  ha  vai  Vishnm  cha  asttrair  ymfudhate 
tan  hasmaJitvaHchatuh  " kalpamahai"  iti  ]  te  ha  tatha  ityasurah  uehuh  |  so  'hramd 
Indro  "  yoAiad  evayam  Vishnus  trir  vikramate  tavad  asmakam  atha  yus/imakam 
itarad"  iti  \  sa  iman  lohan  viehairame  'the  vedsn  atho  vacham  \  tad  ahuh  "  kirn  tat 
isahasram"  iti  "  ime  hkah  imevedah  atho  vag"  iti  iruyat  |  "  airayetham  airayetham" 
ity  achhavakah  ukthye  'bhyasyati  |  Ait.  Br.  6,  15  (see  Prof.  Haug's  translation, 
pp.  403,  f.).  "In  reference  to  whatever  thing  ye  two  strove,  i.e.  strovfi  with  the 
Asuras,  over  that,  in  its  three  characters,  i.e.  as  existing  in  its  character  of  world, 
Veda,  and  speech,  and  in  numher  a  thousand,  and  immeasurable,  ye  strode.  Thus  a 
Brahmana  [the  Aitareya,  6,  15,]  says.:  -"ye  both  conquered;  this  is  what  the 
Achhavaka  priest  [repeats]  :  for  ye  both  conquered,  ye  are  not  vanquished,  neither 
was  vanquished,  for  neither  of  these  two  was  vanquished '  [the  last  line  of  the  verse 
before  us  is  then  cited].  Indra  and  Vishnu  fougM  with  the  Asmras.  Having  con- 
quered them,  they  said,  let  us  divide  [the  world].  The  Asuras  said,  be  it  so. 
Indra  said.  As  much  as  this  Vishnu  strides  over  in  three  strides,  so  much  shall  be  ours; 
the  rest  yours.  He  strode  over  these  worlds,  then  the  Vedas,  then  speech.  When 
people  say,  what  is  that  thousand  p  let  him  say,  These  worlds,  these  Vedas,  then 
Рђбspeech.  The  Achhavaka  priest  repeats  at  the  Ukthya  ritual,  ye  scattered,  ye 
scattered.' "    Comp.  Taitt.  S.  vii.  1,  6,  6. 

*'  The  word  ihavitra  is  explained  by  Sayana  as = ihuvatiam  antarihsham  udaham  va. 
"  The  world,  or  the  atmosphere,  or  water,"  The  word,  Dr,  Aufrecht  informs  me, 
does  not  occur  again  in  the  Vedas. 


T&  VISHNU,  INDEA,.  AND'  OTHER  DEITIES,  85 

E.  V.  vii.  3'ff,  9. Рђћ AchJia  ayaih  no  Marutah  ilokah  etu  aahjiof  VisTimm 
nisMMa-pdm  Sravohhir  ityddi  \  "  Maruts,  may  this  hymn  reach  you : 
may  it  [reaoh]  Yiahgu,  the  preserver  of  emhryos,  with  its  eulogies, "  etc. 

E.  V.  vii.  39,  5.-^A  Ague  giro  dimh  a  prithwya^  Mitram  vaha 
Varmam  Indram  Agnim  \  A.  Aryamammt  Aditim  Vishnum  esham 
Sarasvati  Maruta  mddayantam.  \  "  Agni,  from  heaven  and  earth  bring 
Mitra,  Varuna,  Indra,  Agni,  Aryaman,  Aditi,  Vishnu  to  the  hymns  of 
these  persons;"  may  Sarasyati  and  the  Maruts  be  gratified." 

E.  V.  vii.,  40,  5. Рђћ Asyu  devmya  milhmho  vayah  Vishmr  eBhatya^ 
prahhfithe  havirihih  \  vide  hi  Mudro  rtidrii/am  mahitvam  yasishtam 
vartir  Aivinav  iravat  t  "  The  branches  of  this-  prolific  and  rapid  deity 
Yishnu  [are  to-  be  worshipped  ?]  with  oblations  at  the  ofiering.  For 
Eudra  possesses  impetuous  power.  The  Asvins  have  come  to  our  place 
of  sacrifice  which  is  provided  with  food."^ 

E.  v.  vii.  44,  1. Рђћ BadMkram  vah prathamem  Asvvna  VshammAgnifk 
samiddham  Bhagam  utaye  huve  \  Ind/ram  Vishnum  Pushamm  Brahma- 
mspatim  Aditydn  dydvd-prithivi  apah  svah  \  "I  invoke  you  for  succour, 
first  Dadhikra,  the  Asvins,  TJshas,  the  kindled  Agai,  Bhaga,  Indra,. 
Vishnu,  Pushan,  Brahmanaspati,  the  Adityas,  Heaven  and  Earth,  the 
"Waters,  the  Sty." 

E.  V.  vii.  93,  8. Рђћ .EUdh  Agne  dimhdndsah,  iihttr  yuvoh  sachd  abhi 
aiydma  vdjdn  \  ma  Indro  no  Vishmr  Marutah  pwrihhyann,  ityddi  \ 
"  Breathing  forth  these  petitions,,  may  we,  0  Agni  [and  Indra],  with 
[the  help  of]  you  twain,  obtain  food.  Let  not  Indra,  Vishnu,  and  the 
Maruts  despise  us,"  etc. 


*'  Bdhtlin^  and  Both,  s.v.  esha,  conjecture  that  in  this  verse  the  correct  reading 
is  esham,  "the  rapid,"  as  an  epithet  of  Vishnu,  and  not  esham. 

^  Sayana  interprets  the  first  words  of  the  verse  hefore  us  thus,  Vishnoh  sana- 
devatmahasya  asya  devasya,  amye  devah  vayah  sakhah  iva  bhavanti  \  "  Other  gods  are, 
as  it  were,  branches  of  this  god,  who  is  the  soul  of  all  the  gods."  He  explains  eshasya 
as  follows :  IVairithe.  hmirbhir  havl-rupair  annaih  eshasya  prapr.aniyasya,  "  one 
who  can  be  brpught  by  oblations  of  food."  The  same  epithet  esha  is  applied  to 
Vishnu  in  the  other  two  following  passages  referred  to  in  Bbhtlingk  and  Roth's 
Lexicon  under  this  word.  B.V.  ii.  34,  11. Рђћ Tan  vo  maho  Marutah  evayavno  Vishmr 
eshasya  praihrithe  havamahe  \  ityadi  |  "  At  the  offering  of  the  rapid  Vishnu  we 
invoke  you,  the  great,  and  impetuous  Maruts,"  etc.  E.V.  viii.  20,  3. Рђћ Vidma  hi 
Sudriyanam  itishmam  ugram  Marutam  Hmlvatam  |  Vishmr  eshasya  milhushdm  | 
"  For  we  know  the  fiery  vigour  of  the  sons  of  Eudra,  the  impetuous  Maruts,  of  the 
rapid  Vishnu,  [all  (rfthem]  prolific-." 


86  HYMNS  01"  THE  EIGVEDA 

R.  V.  vii. '99, 1. Рђћ Taro  m&traya^^  tama  vriclhana  na  te  mahitvam  anu 
asnuvanti  \  tthhe  te  vidma  raj'ast  prithivydh  Vishno  deva  imam  para- 
masyavitse  \  2.  Na  te  Viihno  jayamano  najato  deva  mahimnah  param 
anfam  dpa  \  ud  astabhnah  n&kam  rishiam  hrihantam  dddhartha  prachifh, 
Tcdkulham  prithwydh  {  3  (=Vaj.  S.  v.  16).  Iravatl  dhenwmatl  hi 
bhutam  suyavasinl  manitshe^'  daiasyd  \  Vi  astabhndh  rodan  Vishno  ete 
dddhartha  prithwtm  abhito  tnaytekhaih  '|  4.  Urum  yq^ndya  chakrathwr 
u  lokam  janayanta  Snryam  JTshamm,  Agnim  \  ddsasya  chid  vriaha- 
iiprmya  mdydh  jayhnathv/r  na/rd pritandjyeshu  \  5.  Indrd-Vishnu  drim- 
hitah  S'amlmrasya  nava  pwro  nmatim  cha  inathishtam  \  katwrn  varchinah 
sahasram  e%a  sakam  hatho  aprati  astirasya  virdn  \  6.  lyam  manuka 
hrihati  hrihamtd  v/ruhrama  tavasd  vurdhayantl  \  rare  vdm  stomam 
vidatheshu  Vishno  pinvatam  isho  wijaneahu  Indra  \  7.  (S.  V.  2,  977^ 
Taitt.  Sanh.  ii.  2, 12,  4)  Vashat  te  Vishno  dsah  d  krinomi  tad  mejmhasva 
S'ipivishta  havyam  |  vardhantu  tvd  smhtutayo  giro  me  yuyam  pata  avasti- 
hhih  sadd  nah  \ 

"  Thou  who,  with  thy  body,  growest  heyond  our  measure,  [men] 
do  not  attain  to  thy  greatness :  we  know  both  thy  two  regions  of  the 
earth;  thou,  divine  Vishnu,  knowest  the  remotest  [world].*^*  2.  Ifoone, 
0  divine  Vishnu,  who  is  being  bom,  or  who  has  been  born,  knows  the 
furthest  limit  of  thy  greatness.  Thou  didst  prop  up  the  lofty  and  vast 
sty ;  thou  didst  -uphold  the  eastern  pinnacle  of  the  earth.^'  3.  [Te  two 
W^orlds,]beye  abundant  in  food,  cows,  and  pastures,  through  beneficence 
to  man.  Vishnu,  thou  didst  prop  asunder  these  two  worlds;  thou 
didst  envelope  the  earth  on  every  side  with  beams  of  light.  4.  Ye 
(Indra  and  Vishnu)  have  provided  ample  room  for  the  sacrifice,  pro- 
ducing the  sun,  the  dawn,  and  fire.  Te,  0  heroes,  destroyed  in  the 
battles  the  wonderful  powers  of  the  hostile  {ddsa)  Vrishasipra.  5. 
Indra  and  Vishnu,  ye  smote  the  ninety-nine  strong  cities  of  Sambara ; 
together,  ye  slew,  unopposed,  a  thousand  and  a  hundred  heroes  of  the 
Asura  Varchin,  6.  This  great  hymn  gladdens  you  twain,  the  great,  the 
wide-striding,  the  powerful ;  Vishnu  and  Indra,  I  present  to  you  twain 
a  hymn  at  the  sacrifices.  Supply  abundant  nutriment  in  our  habi- 
tations.    7.  Vishnu,  I  utter  to  thee  this  invocation  from  my  mouth. 

*'  Compare  paro-matram  richishamam  Indram  ;  E.  V. 'viii.  57,  1. 

6┬Ф  Tajur-Teda  y.  16  reads  manave,  '*"  Comp.  E.  V.  i.  155,  ^5,  above,  p.  74. 

"  Compare  Isaiah  xl.  22    xlv.  12,  18. 


ADDEESSED  -TO  INDRA  AND  VISHNU.  87 

S'ipivishta,^*  favourably  receive  this  my  oblation.  May  my  laudatory 
hymns  delight  thee :  do  you  always  preserve  us  with  blessings." 

E.  V.  vii.  100. Рђћ JSfu  marto  dayate  sanishyan  yo  Vishmve  urugaydya 
daiat  \  pra  yah  satracha  manasd  y<yd,te  etdvantam  naryam  dvivasat  \ 

2.  Team  Vishno  sumatim  viivcy'anyam  aprayutdm  evaydvo  matim  dah  \ 
paroho  yathd  nah  suvitasya  bhurer  aivdvatah  purukhandrasya  rdyah  \ 

3.  Trir  devah  prithivtm  eshah  etdm  vi  ehakrame  iatarchasam  mahitva  \ 
pra  Vishmr  astu  tavasas  tavlydn  tvesham  hi  asya  sthcmirasya  ndma  \ 

4.  Vi  ehakrame  prithivtm  eshah  etdm  kshetraya  Vishmr  manushe  da&asyan  \ 
dhruvdso  asya  Mrayo  jandsah  urukshitim  sujanimd  ohakdra  \  5.  (S.  V. 
2,  976;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  12,  6 ;  Nir.  5,  9.)  Pra  tat  te  adya  S'ipivishta 
ndma  a/ryah  iamsdmi  vayundni  vidvdn  \  tarn  tvd  grindmi  tavasam  atavydn 
kshayantam  asya  r<yasah pa/rdhe  |  6.  (S.  V.  2,  975  ;  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  12,  5  ; 
Nir.  5,  8.)  Kim  it  te  Vishno  parichakshyam  hhut''^  pra  yad  vcwakshe 
S'ipivishta  asmi  \  md  va/rpo  asmad  apa  guha  etad  yad  anyarupah  samitfie 
labhutha  \  (The  seventh  verse  is  repeated  from  the  last  hymn.) 

"  That  man  never  repents  who,  seeking  [for  good],  brings  offerings  to 
Vishnu,  the  wide-stepping,  who  worships  him  with  his  whole  heart, 
and  propitiates  such  a  powerful  [god].  2.  Vouchsafe  to  us,  swiftly- 
moving  Vishnu,  thy  benevolence,  which  embraces  aU  mankind,  thy 
unpreoccupied  regard ;  that  thou  mayest  grant  us  abundant  good,  and 
brilliant  wealth,  with  horses.  3.  Thrice  the  swift  god  by  his  greatness 
has  traversed  this  earth  with  its  hundred  lights.  May  Vishnu  the, 
strongest  prevail  over  the  strong:  for  awful  is  the  name  (nature)  of 
that  immovable  [being].  4.  The  swift  Vishnu  traversed  the  earth  to 
bestow  it  for  a  habitation  on  Manu  [or  man].  The  men  who  praise 
him  are  secure :  [the  god]  of  exalted  birth  has  given  them  an  ample 
abode.  5.  I,  a  devoted  worshipper,  who  know  the  sacred  rites,  to-day 
celebrate  this  thy  name,  S'ipivishta ;  I,  who  am  weak,  laud  thee 
who  art  strong,  and  dwellest  beyond  this  lower  world.  6.  What, 
Vishnu,  hadst  thou  to  blame,  that  thou  declaredst,  'I  am  S'ipivishta'  ? 
Do  not  conceal  from  us  this  form,  since  thou  didst  assume  another  shape 
in  the  battle."  =┬╗ 

'*  See  the  note  on  this  word  where  it  occurs  in  the  hymn  next  following. 
*'  The  Sama-veda  reads  parichaksM  noma. 

"  The  following  illustration  of  this  verse  is  quoted  by  Professor  Benfey  from  the 
commentary  on  the  corresponding  passage  of  the  S.  V. :  Fura  khalu  Viahnuh  avam 


88  TEXTS  OP  THE  RIGVEDA  RELATING 

E.  V.  viii.  9,  12.Рђћ F┬Ф<?  In&rem  sa/rafha/ih  y&thb  AMna  yad  va 
Vayuna  hhmathah  samokasd  \  yad  Adityehhvr  RibhuhMh  sqfoshasd  yad 
va  Vishnor  vikramaneshw  Ushthathah  \  "  When,  A^vins;  ye  ride  in  the 
same  car  with  Indra,  or  -when  j-e  dwell  in  the  same  abode  with  Vayu, 
or  when  ye  are  associated  with  the  Adityas  and  the  Eibhus,  or  when 
ye  abide  in  the  strides  of  Vishnu." 

rupam  parity ajya  kritrimam  rupBntaram  dharayan  sangrame  Vamhthasya  sahayyam 
chakara  \  tarn  Janann  rishir  anaya  pratyaehashte  \  "  Vishnu  formerly  abandoning 
his  own  form,  and  assuming  another  artificial  shape,  succoured  Vasishtha  in  battle. 
Recognizing  the  god,  the  rishi  addresses  him  with  this  verse."     In  Nir.  t.  8  and  9, 
Taska  quotes  verses  5  and  6  of  the  hymn  before  us  in  inverse  order.    After  teUing 
us  (v.  7)  that,  "according  to  Aupiamanyava,  Vishnu  hto  two- names,  S'ipivishta,  and 
Vishnu,  of  which  the  former  has  a  bad  sense"  [S'ipivishto  Vishnw  iti  Vishnor  d/oe 
namani  ihavatah  |  kutsitarthiyara  punam  bhmati  ity  AwpamanywvaK),  Taska  quotes 
verse  6,  on  which  he  observes :  Kim  te  Vishno  'prakhyatam  etad  bhmaty  aprakhya- 
panlyam  yon  na  prabrmhe  \  hpah  iva  nirveshtito  'smi  ity  apratipmma-rasmih  \ 
apt  va  praSamsa-namaiva  abhipretcm  syat  \  kirn  te  VisAm  prakhyatam  etad  bhmati 
prdkhyapanryam  yad  uta  prabrmhe  \  S'ipivishto  'smi  iti  pratipanna-rasmili  \  sipayo 
'tra  rasmdyah  uchyante  \   fair  avishto  bhavati  ]  ma  varpo  asmad  apaguha  etat  \ 
vdrpah  iti  rupa^nama  ....    |  yad  anya-rupah  samithe  sangrame  bhavasi  samyata- 
rasmih  \  "What,  Vishnu,  is  this  undeclared  thing  of  thine,  not  to  be  declared,  which 
thou  tellest  not  P    '  I  am  enveloped  like  a  private  member,'  i.e.  with  rays  obscm'ed. 
Or,  by  S'ipivishta  a  laudatory  appellation  may  be  intended ;  '  what  is  this  declared 
thing  of  thine,  which  is  to  be  declared,  that  thou  tellest  ?'    '  I  am  S'ipivishta,  i.e. 
one  whose  rays  are  displayed.'     The  word  'sipi'  here  means  'rays;'  with  these  he 
is  pervaded.     '  Do  not  conceal  this  form : '  varpas  is  a  word  meaning  '  form.'  .... 
'  That  thou  art  of  another  form  in  the  battle  {samithe = sangrame) ,  with  thy  rays  with- 
held.' "     See  Taitt.  S.,  vol.  ii.,  p.  585.    On  v.  6,  Taska  remarks :  Nir.  v.  9 :  "  Tat 
te  'dya  S'ipivishta  noma  aryah  s'amsami"  \  aryo  'ham  asmi  livarah  stomanam  I  aryas 
tvam  asi  iti  va  \  tarn  tvd  sfaumi  tavasam  atavyams  tavasah  iti  mahato  namadheyam 
tidito  bhavati  |  nivasantam  asya  rajasah  parake  parakrante  \  "'I,  a  master,  to-day  . 
celebrate  this  thy  name,  S'ipivishta.'    I  am  aryah,  a  master  of  praises.    Or,  thou 
art  a  master.    '  I,  weak,  praise  thee,  the  strong.'     Tacasa  is  a  word  used  for  '  great.' 
'  Dwelling  beyond  {parake  =parakrSnte)   this  lower  world.' "     From  the  above 
quotation,  it  appears  that  even  in  the  time  of  Taska,  the  sense  of  the  word  S'ipivishta 
was  uncertain.    In  the  Mahabharata,  S'antiparva,  w.  13229,  ff.,  Krishna  is  intro- 
duced as  explaining  the  sense  of  the  word  thus  (if  the  vpriter  intended  to  represent 
Taska  as  the  Vedic  rishi  by  whom  the  word  was  first  applied  to  Vishnu,  he  could 
not  have  been  a  particularly  good  Vedic  scholar) :    S'ipivishteti  ehakhyayam  hiria- 
roma  cha  yo  bha/oet  \  tenavishtam  tu  yat  kinchieh  Chhipivishteti  eha  smritah  \  Yasko 
mam  rishir  avyagro  naika-yajneshu  g7tavan  |  S'ipivishlah  iti  hy  asmad  guhya-nama- 
dharo  hy  aham  |  stntva  mam  S'ipivishteti  Taskah  sarshir  udara-dhJh  \  mat-prasadad 
adho  nashiam  Niruktam  abhijagmivan  \  "A  bald  man  is  designated  by  the  word 
S'ipivishta.    Anything  which  is  penetrated  by  that  is  called  S'ipivishta.    Taska,  the 
serene  rishi,  celebrated  me  at  many  sacrifices.     In  consequence  of  this,  I  bear  the 
mysterious  name  of  S'ipivishta.  Taska,  that  rishi  of  large  understanding,  having  lauded 
me  as  S'ipivishta,  recovered  by  my  favour  the  Nirukta,  which  had  been  destroyed." 


TO  VISHNU,  INDEA,  iND  OTHER  DEITIES.  89 

K.  V.  viii.  10,  2. Рђћ  ....  Brihaspati'ni  Visvandevan  aham  hme 
Incha- Vishnu  Aivinav  aiu^heshasa  |  "I  invoke  Brihaspati,  the  ViiJve- 
devas,  Indra  and  Vishinii,  andthe  A^vinawitt  quickly  neighing  steeds." 

E.y.  viii.  12,  16  (=S.V.  i.  384;  A.  V.  20,  111,  l).РђћYat  somam 
In&ra  Vishnmi  yacl  vS  gha  Trite  Aptye  \  yad  va  Marutsu  mandase  sam 
induihih  \  .  .  .  .  25.  Tad  Indra  pritmajy&  devastvd  dadhirepumh  | 
ad  if  te  ha/fyata  Jiwri  vcmahhatuh  |  26.  Yada  Vritrafft  nadi-vritam 
savasd  vajrinn  aladhlh  \  ad  id  ityadi  \  27.  Yada  te  Vishnur  ojasa  trlni 
pads,  viohakrame  \  ad iditfadi  \ 

"Whether,  Indra,  thou  [drinkest]  soma  along  with  Vishnu,  or  with 

Trita  Aptya,  or  with  the  Maruts  art  exhilarated  by  libations 

25.  "When,  Indra,  the  gods  placed  thee  in  their  front  in  the  battle, 
then  thy  dear  steeds  waxed  strong.  26.  When,  thunderer,  thou 
didst  by  thy  might  slay  Vritra^  who  stbpped  up  the  streams,  then  thy 
dear  steeds  grew  strong.  27.  When  by  thy  force  Vishnu  strode  three 
steps,  then  thy  dear  steeds  waxed  strong." 

E.  V.  viii.  15,  8  (=S.  V.  2,  996,  t;  A.  V.  20,  106,  i&).РђћTma 
dyaur  Indra  paufksyam  prithivl  va/rdhati  irmoah  \  tvdm  dpah  pa/rvatdsai 
cha  hinvire  |  9.  Tvdm  Fishnw  brihan  kshayo^''  Mitro  grindti  Varmah  \ 
tvdm  sardho  madati  anu  marutam  \  10.  Tva'm  vrishd  jmandm  mafh- 
histhah  Indra  jajnishe  \  aaird  viivd  su-apatydni  dadhishe  \ 

8.  "Indra,  the  sky  augments  thy  manhood,  and  the  earth  thy  renown. 
The  waters  and  the  mountains  stimulate  thee.  9.  Vishnu,  who  dwells 
on  high,  Mitra,  and  Varuna  celebrate  thee  ;  the  troop  of  Maruts  follows 
thee  with  exultation.  10.  Of  all  beings,  thou,  Indra,  hast  been  bom 
the  most  bountiful  hero ;  thou  hast  made  all  things  altogether  prolific." 

E.  V.  viii.  25,  11. Рђћ Te  no  navam  urmhyata  divd-naktanf- sudanmah  \ 
arishyanto  ni  pdyuhlnh  saehemM,  \  12.  Aglmate  Vishnave  vayam  arish- 
yantah  suddnwoe  \  irudhi  svaydvan  sindho  purva-cMttaye  |  13.  (ITir.  v.  1) 
Tad  varyam  vrimmahe  varishtham  gopayatyam  \  Mitro  yat  pdnti  Varuno 
yad  Aryamd  \  14.  Via  nah  sindhw  apdm  tad  Marutas  tad  Aivind  \ 
Indro  Visftim"  rtildhvd'ihiah  sajoshasah  \ 


"  Benfey,  in  his  translation  of  the  Sama-veda,  renders  kshaya  by  "king."  Eotli, 
in  Ms  Lexicon,  thinks  this  sense  is  not  established,  and  renders  the  words  brihan 
Jcahayah  by  "  high  abode,  i.e.  heaven,  or  those  who  dwell  in  the  high  abode,  the  gods." 
He  also  conjectures  that  the  correct  reading  in  this  passage  may  be  brihat-hahayah, 
"who  dwells  on  high." 


90  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  EELATING 

"  Do  ye,  bountiful  [gods],  preserve  our  bard*'  uigbt  and  day.  May 
we,  free  from  injury,  receive  your  protection.  12.  Free  from  injury, 
we  [offer  praise]  to  the  innocuous,  and  bountiful  Vishnu.  Listen,  0 
self-moving  Ocean,  {to  us]  as  your  first  thought.  13.  "We  desire  that 
excellent  treasure,  worthy  to  be  guarded,  which  Mitra,  Varuna,  and 
Aryaman  possess.  14.  And  may  the  Ocean  of  waters,  may  the  Maruts, 
may  the  A^vins,  Indra,  and  Yishnu,  aU  of  them  proMc,  associated 
together,  [bestow]  that  upon  us." 

R.  V.  viii.  27,  8. Рђћ A  praydta  Maruto  Vishno  Aivina  Pushan 
makinaya  dMya  \  Indrah  ayatu  prafhamah  sanisJiyubhvr  vrisha  yo 
vritraha  grine  \  "  Come  hither,  ye  Maruts,  Vishnu,  A^vins,  Pushan, 
at  my  hymn.  May  Indra  come  the  first,  he  who  is  celebrated  by  those 
who  desire  [his  blessing],  as  the  vigorous,  the  slayer  of  Vritra." 

The  following  hymn,  in  the  seventh  verse  of  which  Vishnu  is 
mentioned,  is  interesting  from  the  manner  in  which  the  various 
characteristics  of  the  different  gods  are  succinctly  described : 

E.  V.  viii.  29,  1  ff. Рђћ Bdbhrur  eho  vishunah  sunaro  yuva  anji  anhte 
hwanyaya0i  \  2.  Yonim  ekah  a  sasdda  dyotano  antar  devesJiu  medhirah  | 
3.  Vdiim  eko  hilharti  haste  ayasim  anta/r  deveshu  nidhruvih  \  4. 
Vcy'ram  eko  hilharti  haste  dhita^  tena  vritrdni  jighnate  \  5.  Tigmam 
eko  hibharti  haste  dyudham  iuehir  ugro  jaldsha-lheshajah  \  6.  Pathah 
ekah  plpaya  taskaro  yatha:  esha  veda  nidhmdm  J  7.  2i-ini  ekah  wrugayo 
vi  chakrame  yatra  devdso  madanti  [  8.  Vihhir  dvd  eho/ratah  ekayd  saJoa 
pra  pra/edsd  iva  vasatah  \  9.  Sado  dvd  chakrdte  upamd  divi  samrdjd 
sarpirdsutl  \  10.  Arehantah  eke  mahi  soma  manvata  tena  suryam 
arochayan  \ 

"  One  Рёб  is  a  youth,  brown,  variable, '"  active.  A  golden  lustre 
invests  him.     2.  Another,"  luminous,  has  seated  himself  on  the  place 

59  Dr.  Aufreolit  tells  me  that  the  word  navam  is  so  accented  that  it  cannot  mean 
"  ship."  He  regards  it  as  a  masc.  noun  from  the  root  nu,  "  to  praise ; "  and  assigns 
to  it  the  sense  of  "  bard,"  or  "  hymn."  That  there  is  such  a  word  as  nava  is  proved 
by  its  occurrence  in  E.  V.  ix.  45,  5 :  Indum  navah  anushata  |  where  it  must  mean 
"  the  bards,  or  hymns,  celebrated  Indu." 

"  Soma,  as  the  moon,  according  to  the  commentator.  M.  Langlois  thinks  the  sun 
is  meant;  Dr;  Aufrecht  thinks  the  troop  of  Maruts,  Mantd-gana,  may  be  meant,  to 
whom,  he  remarks,  the  epithet  habhru,  "  dark-brown,  tawny,"  is  as  applicable  as  it 
is  to  their  master,  Eudra,  to  whom  it  is  frequently  given. 

8┬╗  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth  understand  vishtena  of  the  changing  phases  of  the  moon. 

"  Agni,  according  to  the  commentator.    Atra  yonim  iti  lingad  Agnir  uchyate  | 


TO  VISHNU,  INDEA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  91 

of  sacrificej  wise,  amidst  the  gods.  3.  Another*"  holds  in  his  hand, 
an  iron  axe,  steadfast,  among  the  gods.  4.  Another*'  holds  the 
thunderbolt  poised  in  his  hand,  with  which  he  slays  his  enemies. 
5.  Another,*'*  bright,  fiery,  possessing  healing  remedies,  holds  a  shaip 
weapon  in  his  hand.  6.  Another  ┬░*  watches  the  roads  like  a  robber : 
he  knows  the  treasures.  7.  Another,Рёб  wide-stepping,  strode  three 
[strides,  in  the  regions]  where  the  gods  rejoice.  8,  Two  [others] " 
ride  on  birds  (horses)  with  one  [godd-ess] :  they  dwell  afar,  as  if 
abroad.  9.  Two  [others],**  the  highest,  have  made  their  abode  in 
the  sky,  monarchs,  worshipped  with  butter.  10.  Some,  worshipping, 
have  meditated  a  great  sama-hymn,  by  which  they  have  caused  the 
sun  to  shine." 

E.  V.  viii.  31,  10. Рђћ A  darma  pccrvatdndm  vrinlmahe  nadinSm  a 
Vishnoh  sacha-bhwoah  \  "  "We  seek  for  protection  from  the  mountains, 
the  rivers,  and  Vishnu  who  is  associated  with  them." 

E.  Y.  viii.  35,  1, 14. Рђћ 1.  Agnind  Indrma  Varunena  Vislmina  Aditymh 
Rudrair  VasuhMh  meha-hhund  ]  sajoshasd  Ushasa  Suryena  cha  somam 
pihatam  Aivind  \  14.  Angirasvantd  uta  Vishmvcmtd  Marutvemtd 
Jaritw  gachkatho  Jia/iiam  ityddi  \  "  Asvins,  drink  the  soma-juice,  imited 
with  Agni,  Indra,  Varuna,  Vishnu,  the  Adityas,  Eudra,  the  Vasus, 
and  associated  with  TJshas  and  Surya.  14.  Attended  by  Angiras,  by 
Vishnu,  and  by  the  Maruts,  you  come  at  the  iavooation  of  your 
worshipper." 

E.  V.  viii.  66,  10. Рђћ Visvd  it  td  Vishnw  dhharad  rirukramas  tvd 
ishitah  I  iatam,  mahishdn  kshira-pdham  odanam  vardlmm  Indra  emusham\- 
"The  wide-striding  Vishnu,  urged  by  thee,  0  Indra,  carried  ┬Фff  all 
[these  things],  a  hundred  buffaloes,  broth  cooked  with  mUk,  and  a 
fierce  (?)  hog." 

This  verse  is  considered  by  Dr.  Au&echt  to  contain  an  allusion  to 

┬Ф┬Ф  Tvashtri.  es  Indxa. 

**  Eudra.  Compare  E.  V.  i.  43,  4,  where  Eudra  is  named,  and  the  same  epithet, 
j'alaaha-hheshaja,  is  applied  ┬▒a  him,  anРѓг  E.  V.  vii.  35,  6,  where  he  is  called  jalasha, 
"healing." 

*'  Pushan.  ┬░8  Yishuu. 

*"  The  AsvinB.  In  i^arioiis  passages  of  the  E.  V.,  the  daughter  of  the  Sun  is  said 
to  ride  on  the  car  of  the  As'vins.  See  the  account  of  these  deities  in  the  fifth  volume 
of  this  work.    In  E.  V.  v.  73,  S,  the  goddess  is  -called  Surya. 

"  Mitra  and  Varuna. 


92     QUOTATION  FEOM  SAYANA'S  COMMENTAET  ON  THE  E.  V. 

some  myth  (also  referred  to  in  E.  V.  i.  61,  1,  quoted  in  p.  67),  in 
Рќаwhich  Vishnu  appears  to  have  been  represented  as  carrying  off  cattle, 
a  hog,  and  other  provisions  for  the  use  of  Indra.  Compare  Professor 
"Wilson's  note  (d)  on  K.  V.  i.  61,  7.  The  same  story  may  be  alluded 
to  in  K.  Y.  vi.  17,  11,  above,  p┬╗  81.     See  also  the  note  there. 

Sayana  gives  two  explanations  of  the  verse  (viii.  66,  10),  that  of 
the  Nairuktas  or  etymologists,  and  that  of  the  Aitihasikas  or  recorders 
of  legendSi  I  cite  the  latter  only.  The  story  there  told  is  the  same 
as  I  have  already  cited  above  (pp.  39  f.)  from  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita ; 
but  it  is  here  given  in-  a  different  and  conciser  version.  Part  of  the 
following  quotation  consists  of  Sayana's  own  application  of  two  Tedic 
texts,  B.V.  i.  61,  7,  quoted  above,  p.  67,.  and  viii.  66,  10,  which  has 
just  been  given. 

Aitihasika-pakshe  \  charaka-hrdhmane  itihasah  amndyate  f  "  Vishnm 
ycy'nah  \  sa  devebhyah  atmanam  antaradhat  |  tarn  cmya-devatdh  na 
avindan  \  Indras  tv  a/vet  \  sa  Indram  abravW  'ko  bkavdn'  iti  \  tarn 
Indrah  pratydbrwoid  '  aham  durydndm  asurdndm  eha  hanta  \  hhwedrm 
tu  kah '  iti  |  so  'bravld  '  aham  dwrgdd  dhartd  \  team  tu  yadi  durydndm 
asvrdnd0i  eha  hantd  tato  'yam  vardho  vdmd-mushah  eka/oifk^atydh  purdm 
pare  'imanmaylndm  vasaii  |  tasmitm  asiirdndih  vasu  vdmam  asti  \  tarn 
imam  jahi^  iti  \  tasya  Indras  tdh  puro  bhittvd  hridayam  avidhyat  \ 
adhi  tatra  yad  dsit  tad  Vishmi/r  dha/rad "  iti  \  so  'yam  itihdso  "  asya 
id  u  mdtuh  savaneshit"  "visvd  it  td  Vishnwr"  ity  dbhydm pratipdditah] 
tayor  madhye  "  asya  id  u  mdtur "  ity  atra  VishnunS  "  he  Indra  tvam 
'  d/wrgdndm  hantd '  ity  dtmdnafh  kathayasi  ta/rhi  vdma-mmham  va/rdham 
asurafn,  jahi"  ity  uktdrtho  "vidhyad  vardham^'  iti pddena pratipaditdh  I 
Indrena  eha  '  Vishno  tvam  " dv/rgdd  dhartd"  iti  brushe  \  mayd  pverdni 
jitdny  aswrak  eha  ghdtitas  tasya  vdmam  vasv  dnaya '  ity  ukto  Vishntt- 
murtis  tasya  Vardhdsurasya  dhanam  mttmosha  |  so  'rtho  "mushdyad 
Vishnuh  pachatam  "  iti  pddena  suchitah  \  sa  kirn  punar  mushitavdn  iti 
tad  atra  uchyate  "  viivd  it  td  "  iti  \ 

"  On  the  part  of  the  Aitihasikas  a  story  is  recorded  in  the  Charaka 
Brahmana  (i.e.  the  Brahmana  of  the  Black  Tajur  Veda)  :  '  Vishnu  is 
the  sacrifice.  He  withdrew  himself  from  the  sight  of  the  gods.  The 
other  gods  did  not  discover  him;  but  Indra  knew  [where  he  was]. 
He  said  to  Indra,  Who  art  thou  ?  Indra  replied,  I  am  the  destroyer 
of  castles,  and  Asuras;  but  who  art  thou?    He  said,  I  am  he  who 


TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  ABOUT  VISHNU.  93 

removes  [the  spoil]  from  the  castle :  but  if  thou  art  the .  destroyer  of 
castles  and  Asuras,  then  this  Varaha,  a  plunderer  of  goods,  dwells  on 
the  other  side  of  twenty-one  stone  ramparts;  in  him  abide  the  wealth 
and  property  of  the  Asuras:  slay 'him.  Indra  broke  through . these 
ramparts,  and  pierced  his  heart;  and  Vishnu  carried  off  all  that  was 
found  there.'  This  story  is  set  forth  in  the  two  yerses,  the  one  be- 
ginning 'Having  at  the  libations,'  etc.  (E.  V.  i.  61,  7),  and  'The 
wide-striding  Vishnu,'  etc  (viii.  66,  10).  In  the  fourth  quarter,  of  the 
first  of  these  yerses  the  words  '  pierced  the  boar '  (Varaha)  refer  to 
the  clause  of  this  story  in  whitjh  Vishnu  says,  '  Thou,  Indra,  caUest 
thyself  a  destroyer  of  castles;  slay  then  the  Asura  Varaha,  '  the 
plunderer  of  goods.'  The  third  quarter  of  the  same  verse,  'the  im- 
petuous Vishnu  stole  the  cooked  mess,'  alludes  to  the  other  clause 
of  the  story  in  which  the  being  in  the  form  of  Vishnu,  being  addressed 
by  Indra  in  the  words,  '  Vishnu,  thou  caUest  thyself  the  being  who 
carries  off  goods  from  the  castle.  I  (Indra)  have  conquered  the 
castles  and  slain  the  Asura;  now,  therefore,  bring  the  treasures 
plundered,  the  property  of  the  Asura  Varaha.'  But  what  was  it 
that  he  plundered?  That  is  declared  in  the  words,  the  wide-striding 
Vishnu,  etc.  (viii.  66,  10)."  The  verse  is  then  explained.  The  story 
in  the  Brahmana  seems  to  be  made  up  from  the  obscure  hints  in  the 
hymns. 

K.  V.  viii.  72,  7  (=Vaj.  S.  33,  47). Рђћ J.dhi  na  Jkdra  esham  Vishno 
scyaiyanam  \  ita  Maputo  Aivind  \  "Eemember,  Indra,  Vishnu,  Maruts, 
Aivins,  us  thy  kinsmen." 

E.  V.ix.  33,  3  (S.  V.  2,  116). Рђћ Sutah  Indraya  Vdyme  Varunaya 
Marudlltydh  \  somah  arshmti  Vishnave  |  "The  somardraughts  poured 
forth,  hasten  to  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna,  the  Maruts,  and  to  Vishnu." 

E.  V.  ix.  34,  2. Рђћ Sutah  Indraya  Vdyave  Varunaya  Marudbhyak  \ 
soma (urshati  VisfmKie  \  "The  soma  hastens  to  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna, 
the  Maruts,  and  Vishnu." 

E.  V.  ix.  56,  4.' Рђћ Tvam  Indraya  Vishnave  svadur  Indo  pari  srama  \ 
nrm  stotrln  pdki  anihasah  \  "Indu,  do  thou  flow,  sweet,  to  Indra,  to 
Vishnu.     Preserve  from  sin  the  men  who  praise  thee." 

E.  V.  ix.  63,  3. Рђћ Sutah  Indraya  Vishnave  somah  halaie  ahharat  | 
madhumdn  astu  Vayame  \  "  The  soma,  when  poured  forth,  flowed  into 
the  vessel  for  Indra,  for  Vishnu.    May  it  be  honied  for  Vayu." 


94  TEXTS  OF  THE  RI6VEDA  EELATING 

E.  V.  ix.  65,  20  (S.  V.  2,  345). Рђћ A^sdh  Indraya  Vaymie  Va/rmaya 
Marudbhyah  \  somo  arshati  Vishnave  \  "Pouring  forth  streams,  the 
soma  hastens  to  Indra,  Vayu,  Varuna,  the  Maruts,  and  to  Vishnu." 

K.  V.  ix.  90,  5. Рђћ Mahi  Soma  Varumm  matsi  Mitram  matsi  Ind/ram 
Indo  pavamdna  Vishnum  \  matsi  iwrdho  Marutam  matsi  devan  matsi 
makdm  Indram  Indo  madaya  \  "  Soma,  Indu,  purified,  thou  exhilara- 
test  Varuna,  thou  exhilaratest  Mitra,  thou  exhilaratest  Indra,  thou 
exhilaratest  Vishnu,  thou  exhilaratest  the  troop  of  the  Maruts,  thou 
exhilaratest  the  gods,  and  the  great  Indra,  that  they  may  be  merry." 

K.  V.  ix.  96,  5  (=S.  V.  ii.  293). Рђћ Somah  pavate  janita  matindm 
janitd  divo  jomitd  pritMvyah  \  janita  Agner  janitd  Suryasyaj'amtd  In- 
drasya  janita  uta  Vishnoh  \  "  Soma  is  purified  [he  who  is]  the  generator 
of  hymns,  the  generator  of  the  Sky,  the  generator  of  the  Earth,  the 
generator  of  Agni,  the  generator  of  Surya,  the  generator  of  Indra,  and 
the  generator  of  Vishnu." 

This  verse  is  quoted,  and  thus  explained  in  the  ITirukta-parisishta, 
ii.  12 :  Somah  pavate  \  somah  suryah  prasavanat  |  janitd  matindm 
prahdia-Tcarmandm  dditya-raimindm  divo  dyotana-karmandm  dditya- 
ralmindm  prithivydh  prathana-karmandm  aditya-raimlndm  Agner  gati- 
karmandm  aditya-rasmmdm  Suryasya  sviharana-karmanam  dditya-rasml- 
ndm  Indrasya  aikva/rya-ka/rmandm  dditya-ra&mindm  Visknor  vydpti- 
karmandm  dditya-raimindm  ity  adhidaivatam  \  atha  adhydtmam  |  somah 
dtma  apy  etasmdd  eva  ind/riydndm  janitd  ity  arthah  \  api  vd  sarvdhhir 
vibhutilhir  vihhutata  (?)  dtmd  ity  dtma-gatim  dehashte  \  "  Soma  is 
purified.  Soma  is  'surya'  (the  sun),  from  generating  (prasavanat). 
H.e  is  the  generator  of  hymns  (or  thoughts),  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays 
whose  function  it  is  to  reveal ;  of  the  Sky,  i.e  of  those  solar  rays  whose 
function  it  is  to  shine;  of  the  Earth,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose 
function  it  is  to  spread ;  of  Agni,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function 
it  is  to  move ;  of  Surya,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function  it  is  to 
appropriate  (svikarana) ;  of  Indra,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function 
is  sovereignty ;  of  Vishnu,  i.e.  of  those  solar  rays  whose  function  is 
diffusion :  such  is  the  mythological  explanation.  Now  follows  the 
spiritual  interpretation,  i.e.  that  which  refers  to  soul.  Soma  is  also 
the  soul ;  and  for  this  cause  he  is  the  generator  of  the  senses :  such  is 
the  meaning.  Or,  he  thus  declares  the  course  xif  the  soul,  that  it  is 
variously  modified  by  all  its  changing  manifestations." 


TO  VISHNU,  INDEA,  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  95 


E.  y.  ix.  166,  6  (=S.  Y.  ii.  366).Рђћ Favasva  vaja-sat 
dJiarayS,  sutah  \  Indrdya  Soma  Vishmve  devebhyo  madhumattamah  \ 
"  Soma,  be  purified,  dispenser  of  strength,  poured  out  in  a  stream  into 
the  filter,  for  Indra,  for  Vishnu,  for  the,  gods,  most  honied." 

K.  V.  X.  1,  3. Рђћ  Vishmr  ittha  pm-amam  asya  vidvan  jato  hrihann 
alM  pati  tritiyam  \  dsa  yad  asya  payo  ahrata  svam  sachetaso  ahhi 
aehanti  atra  1  "  Vishnu,  knowing  thus  his  (Agni's)  highest  [birth-place], 
Рќаwhen  born,  the  great  being,  protects  his  third  [birth-place,  on  earth]. 
Men  unanimously  worship  him  here,  when  they  offer  him  their  libation 
face  to  face."  ^' 

K.  V.  X.  65,  1. Рђћ Agnir  Indro  Varuno  Mifro  Aryamd  Vayuh  Pushd 
Sarasvati  sajoshasah  \  Adityah  Vishmr  Marutah  Svar  Irihat  Soma 
Budro  Adiiir  Brahmanaspatih  \  "Agni,  Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  Arya- 
man,  Vayu,  Pushan,  Sarasvati,  associated  together,  the  Adityas,  Vishnu, 
the  Maruts,  the  great  Sky,  Soma,  Eudra,  Aditi,  Brahmanaspati." 

E.  V.  X.  66,  4,  5. Рђћ Aditir  dydvd-prithwl  ritam  mahad  Indrd- 
Vishnu  Marutah  Svar  Irihat  \  devan  Aditydn  amase  havdmahe  Vasun 
Rudrdn  Savitdram  sudamsasam  \  5.  Sarasvdn  dhibhir  Varuno  dhrita- 
vratah  Pushd  Vishnur  mahimd  Vdyur  Ahina  \  hrahma-krito  amritdh 
visva-vedasah  sarma  no  yafnsan  trivarutham  amhasah  \ 

"We  invoke  Aditi,  Heaven  and  Earth,  the  great  Ceremonial,  Indra 
and  Vishnu,  the  Maruts,  the  great  Sky,  the  divine  Adityas,  to  our 
succour,  theVaeus,  Eudras,  and  Savitri,  the  wonder-working.  5.  May 
Sarasvat,  through  our  prayers,  may  Varuna,  whose  ordinances  are  fixed, 
Pushan,  Vishnu,  the  great  Power,  Vayu,  the  Asvins,  the  immortals, 
offerers  of  prayer,  possessors  of  all  wealth,  grant  us  a  triple  protection 
from  evil." 

E.  V.  X.  92,  11. Рђћ Te  hi  dydvd-prithivi  hhuri-retasd  Ifardidmsai 
chaturango  Yamo  'ditih  \  devas  Tvashtd  JDravinoddh  ^ilhuhshanah  pra 
rodasl  Ma/ruto  Vishnur  arhi/re  \  "  The  prolific  Heaven  and  Earth,  the 
four-limbed  Narasansa,  Tama,  Aditi,  the  god  Tvashtri,  Dravinodas,  the 
Eibhukshans,  the  two  worlds,  the  Maruts,  Vishnu  have  been  honoured." 

E.  Y.  X.  113,  1. Рђћ Tarn  asya  dyavd-prithim  saohetasa,  vihehhir  devair 

anu  sushmam  dvatdm  |   yad  ait  fyinvdno  mahimdnam  indriyam  pitvi 

somasya  kratumdn  avardhata  |  2.  Tam  asya  Vishnwr  mahimdnam  y'asd  *'* 

^'  See  above  p.  66  f. ;  and  the  fifth,  volume  of  this  work,  p.  207. 
"*  The  same  combination  of  words,  mahimSnam  ojasa,  occurs  in  E.  V.  t.  81,  3, 
above,  p.  72. 


96  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  ABOUT  VISHNU. 

amium  dadhanvan  madhuno  vi  rapiate,  |  deveikir  .Indro  rnaghwea  mya- 
.vaihw  Vritram  jaghaman  abhmad  varenyah  \  "  The  concordant  heaven 
and  earth,  with  all  the  gods,  have  stimulated  that  vigour  of  his. 
When  he  went  on  displaying  his  energetic  greatness,  drinking  the 
soma,  the  powerful  god  exulted.  2.  Vishnu,  in  his  might,  hringing 
the  soma  plant,  [the  source  of]  his  greatness,  is  full  of  the  honied 
juice.  Indra,  the  opulent,  with  the  gods  attending,  having  slain  Vritra, 
became  distinguished." 

E.  V.  X.  128,  2  (A.  V.  5,  33).Рђћ J/┬Фwfl!  devah  vihme  santu  sarve 
Jndravanto  Maruto  Vishnur  Agnir  ityadi  \  "May  the  gods  all  attend 
on  my  invocation,  the  Maruts  with  Indra,  Vishjiu,  Agni,"  etc. 

E.  V.  X.  141,  3  (Vaj.S.Q,  26;  A.  V.  3,  20,  4i).РђћSomam.  rdjanam 
avase  'gnim  gzriMr  havamahe'"'  \  Adifyan  Vishnum  Suryam  Irahma- 
.mncha  Brihaspatm  |  .  .  .  5.  (Vaj.  S.  9,  27;  A.  Y.  3,  20,  7.)  Arya- 
manam  Brihaspatim  Indram  danaya  chodaya  \  Fatam  Vishnum  Saras- 
vatim  Stwitdrancha  vaj'inam  |  "  We  invoke  with  hymns  king  Soma, 
to  our  aid,  and  the  Adityas,  Vishnu,  Surya,  and  the  priest  Brihaspati. 
-5.  Excite  Aryaman,  Brihaspati,  Indra,  to  generosity,  andVata,  Vishnu, 
Sarasvati,  and  Savitri,  the  heroic." 

E.  V.  X.  181,  1. Рђћ Prathas  tha  yasya  Saprathai  cha  nama  dnushtu- 
hhasya  ha/oiiho  hmir  yat  \  Dhdtw  dyutanat  SavituS  cha  Vishnoh  rathan- 
taram  ajalhara  Vasishthah  \  2.  Avindan  te  atihitam  yad  dsid  yajnaaya 
dhdma  pm-amam  guhd  yat  \  Bhaiv/r  dyutdndd  Savitid  cha  Vishnor  Bhwr- 
adodjo  hrihad  d  chakre  Agneli  \  3.  Te  'vindan  manasd  dldhydndh  yajuh 
ikarmam  prathamam  devaydnam  \ .  Bhdittr  dyutffndd  Savitui  cha  Vishnor 
a  Surydd  aibhwan  gharmam  etc  | 

"  Vasishtha  has  received  from  the  shining  Dhatri,  from  Savitri,  and 
from  Vishnu,  the  Eathantara,  that  which  is  the  offering  of  the  fourfold 
sacrifice,  whereof  Prathas  and  Saprathas  are  the  names.  2.  These 
[sages]  discovered  what  was  very  far  removed,  the  supreme  and  secret 
abode  of  sacrifice.  Bharadvaja  has  received  the  Brihat  from  the 
shining  Dhatri,  from  Savitri,  from  Vishnu,  and  from  Agni.  3.  Con- 
templating with  their  minds,  these  [sages] ,  discovered  the  descended 
Tajush,  the  first  path  to  the  gods.  From  the  shining  Dhatri,  Savitri, 
Vishnu,  Surya,  they  brought  down  Gharma." 

E.  V.  X.  184,  1  (=A.  V.  5,  25,  6). Рђћ  Vishnur  yonim  Icalpayatu  Tvashtd 

'"  The  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  reads  anvarabhamahe  instead  of  gtrbhir  havamahe. 


UNDEFINED  CHARACTER  OF  VISHNU.  97 

rupdni  pinisatu  \  a  sinohatu  Prtydpatir  Bhata  gmrhham  dadhdtu  te  \ 
"Let  Vishnu  form  tte  -womb;  let  Trasitri  mould  tte  forms;  let 
Prajapati  infuse  [the  seminal  principle] ;  let  Dhatri  form  the 
embryo." 

Sect.  II. Рђћ Subordinate  position  oocy^ied  ly  Vishnu  in  the  hymns  of  the 
Rig-veda  as  compared  with  other  deities. 

The  preceding  passages  are  all,  or  nearly  all,  'which  the  Eig-veda 
contains  regarding  Vishnu.  In  my  remarks  on  E.  V.  i.  22,  16  ff. 
(above  p.  64  ff.),  I  have  quoted  the  opinions  of  two  of  the  most  ancient 
interpreters  of  the  Veda,  S'akapuni  and  Aurnavahha,  on  the  character  of 
Vishnu.  The  former  regards  him  as  a  god  who,  in  what  are  called  his 
three  strides,  is  manifested  in  a  threefold  form,  as  Agni  on  earth,  as  Indra 
or  Vayu  in  the  atmosphere,  and  as  the  Sun  in  heaven.  The  second  writer, 
Aurnavabha,  on  the  other  hand,  interprets  Vishnu's  three  strides  as  the 
rising,  culmination,  and  the  setting  of  the  sun.  These  three  strides 
are  also  noticed,  as  we  have  seen  above,  in  E.  V.  i.  154,  1,  2,  3,  4; 
i.  155,  4,  5;  vi.  49,  13;  vii.  100,  3,  4;  viii.  29,  7;  while  in  other 
places  (R.  V.  ii.  1,  3;  iii.  54,  14;  iv.  3,  7;  iv.  18,  11 ;  viii.  89,  12; 
V.  3,  3;  V.  87,  4;  viii.  9,  12;  viii.  66,  10;  x.  1,  3)  the  epithet  "wide- 
stepping,"  or  "  wide-striding,''  is  either  applied  to  this  deity,  or,  at 
least,  some  allusion  is  made  to  this  function,  or  to  this  god's  station  in 
the  heavens.  In  E.  V.  vi.  69,  5,  and  vii.  99,  6,  Indra  is  associated 
with  Vishnu  as  taking  vast  strides. 

As  the  peculiar  divine  office  of  Vishnu,  indicated  by  his  three 
steps,  stages,  or  stations,  was  differently  understood  by  the  oldest 
interpreters  whose  opinions  have  been  handed  down  to  us,  it  is  natural 
to  suppose  that  it  was  not  so  clearly  defined  or  understood  as  the 
functions  of  some  of  the  other  gods,  as  Agni  and  Indra  for  example. 
But  the  specific  character  of  many,  I  may  say  most,  of  the  Vedic  gods 
is  far  from  being  distinctly  determined  in  the  hymns. 

Some  other  acts  of  even  a  higher  character  are  attributed  to 
Vishhu.  In  E.  V.  i.  154,  1,  2;  vii.  99,  2,  3,  he  is  said  to  have 
established  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  to  contain  aU  the  worlds  in 
his  strides;  in  R.  V.  vi.  69,  5,  and  vii.  99,  4,  to  have,  with  Indra 
made  the  atmosphere  wide,  stretched  out  the  worlds,  produced 
the  sun,  the  dawn  and  fire;   in  E.  V.  i.  156,  4,  to  have  received 

vol.  IT.  7 


98    VISHNU  NOT  ONE  OF  THE  MOST  PROMINENT  GODS  OF  THE  E.V. 

the  homage  of  Varuna;  while  in  E.  V.  vii.  99,  2,  his  greatness  is 
described  as  having  no  limit  within  the  ken  of  present  or  future 
beings.  The  attributes  ascribed  to  Vishnu  in  some  of  these  passages 
are  such  that,  if  these  latter  stood  alone  in  the  Eig-veda,  they 
might  lead  us  to  suppose  that  this  deity  was  regarded  by  the  Vedic 
Eishis  as  the  chief  of  all  the  gods.  But,  as  we  have  already  seen, 
Indra  is  associated  with  Vishnu  even  in  some  of  those  texts  in  which 
the  latter  is  most  highly  magnified  (as  E.  V.  i.  155,  1  flf. ;  vi.  69,  1  ff. ; 
vii.  99,  4  ff. ;  viii.  15,  10) ;  nay,  in  one  place  (E.  V.  viii.,13,  27),  the 
power  by  which  Vishnu  takes  his  three  strides  is  described  as  being 
derived  from  Indra;  in  E.  V.  iv.  18,  11,  vi.  20,  2,  and  viii.  89,  12, 
he  is  the  associate  of  Indra;  in  another  text  (E.V.  viii.  15,  9),  Vishnu 
is  represented  as  celebrating  Indra's  praises ;  while,  in  E.  V.  ix.  96,  5, 
Vishnu  is  said  to  have  been  generated  by  Soma. 

It  is  also  a  fact,  notorious  to  all  the  students  of  the  Eig-veda,  that 
the  hymns  and  verses  which  are  dedicated  to  the  praises  of  Indra,  Agni, 
Mitra,  Varuna,  the  Maruts,  the  Asvins,  etc.,  are  extremely  numerous ; 
whilst  the  entire  hymns  and  separate  verses  in  which  Vishnu  is  cele- 
brated are  much  fewer,  and  have  all,  or  nearly  aU,  been  adduced  in 
the  preceding  pages. 

The  reader  will  also  have  noticed  that,  in  a  large  number  of  shorter 
passages  which  I  have  cited,  Vishnu  is  introduced  as  the  subject  of 
laudation  among  a  great  crowd  of  other  divinities,  from  whom  he  is 
there  in  no  way  distinguished  as  being  in  any  respect  superior.  From 
this  fact,  we  may  conclude  that  he  was  regarded  by  those  writers  as 
on  a  footing  of  equality  with  the  other  deities. 

Further,  the  Eig-veda  contains  numerous  texts  in  which  the  Eishis 
ascribe  to  Indra,  Varuna,  and  other  gods,  the  same  high  and  awful  at- 
tributes and  functions  which  are  spoken  of  in  the  hymns  before  cited  as 
belonging  to  Vishnu.  I  shall  quote  a  sufficient  number  of  these  texts 
to  show  that,  in  the  Eig-veda,  Vishnu  does  not  hold  a  higher  rank  than 
several  of  these  other  divinities.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  we  look  to 
the  large  number  of  texts,  in  which,  as  I  have  just  stated,  some  of  the 
other  gods  are  celebrated,  and  to  the  comparatively  small  number  of 
those  in  which  Vishnu  is  exclusively  or  prominently  magnified,  we 
shall  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  latter  deity  occupied  a  somewhat 
subordinate  place  in  the  estimation  and  affections  of  the  ancient  rishis. 


DIVINE  ATTRIBUTES  ASCRIBED  TO  INDRA.  99 

I  shall  first  adduce  a  number  ef  passages  in  which  divine  attributes 
and  functions  of  the  highest  character  are  ascribed  to  Indra." 

E.  V.  i.  7,  3 Рђћ Ini/ro  dlrgJmya  chakshase  a  suryafh  rohayad  divi  ityadi] 
"  Indra  has  raised  up  the  sun  in  the  sky  to  be  seen  from  afar,"  etc. 

E.  V.  i.  52,  8. Рђћ  ....  ayaohhathah' lahvor  vajram  ayasam  adharayo 
divi  a  suryam  drUe  \  ....  12.  Tvam  asya  pare  rajaso  vyomanah 
svahhuty-ojah  avase  dhrishan-manah  \  ohakrishe  hhumim  pratimdnam 
ojasah  apah  svah  parihhur  eshi  a  divam  \  13.  Tvam  Ihuval}  pratimanam 
prithivyak  rishva-virasya  Irihatah  patir  hhuh  \  viha/m  a  aprdh  anta- 
rikaham  maMtva  satyam  addha  nakir  any  as  tvdvdn  \  14.  JVa  yasya 
dydvd-prUhwi  anu  vyacho  na  sindhavo  rajaso  antam  dna&uh  \  nota  sva^ 
vrishtim  made  asya  yudhyatah  eko  anyach  ohakrishe  viham  anushah  | 

"Thou  hast  grasped  in  thine  arms  the  iron  thunderbolt;  thou  hast 

placed  the  sun  in  the  sky  to  be  viewed 12.  [Dwelling]  on  the 

further  side  of  this  atmospheric  world,  deriving  thy  power  from  thy- 
self, daring  in  spirit,  thou,  for  our  advantage,  hast  made  the  earth,  the 
counterpart"  of  [thy}  energy;  encompassing  the  waters  and  the  sky, 
thou  reachest  up  to  heaven.  13.  Thou  art  the  counterpart  of  the 
earth,  the  lord  of  the  lofty  sky,  with  its  exalted  heroes.  Thou  hast 
flUed  "  the  whole  atmosphere  with  thy  greatness.  Truly  there  is  none 
other  like  unto  thee.'*  14.  Whose  vastness  neither  heaven  and  earth 
have  equalled,  nor  the  rivers  of  the  atmosphere  have  attained  its 
limit, Рђћ not  when,  in  his  exhilaration,  he  fought  against  the  appro- 
priator  of  the  rain  (?) ;  thou  alone  hast  made  everything  else  in  due 
succession." 

E,  V.  i.  55,  1. Рђћ Bivai  chid  asya  varimd  vi  paprathe  Indram  n* 
mahnd  prithivi  chana  prati  \  "His  vastness  is  extended  even  beyond 
the  sky :  the  earth  is  not  comparable  to  Indra  in  greatness." 

E.  V.  i.  61,  9. Рђћ  Asya  id  eva  praririche  mahitvam  divas  prithivyak 
pari  antarikshdt  ityddi  \  "  His  greatness  transcends  the  sky,  the  earth, 
and  surpasses  the  atmosphere,"  etc. 

"  Compare  the  additional  texts  of  the  same  tenor  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work, 
pp.  99  ff. 

"Compare  R.  V.  i.  102,  8;  ii.  12,  9;  a.  Ill,  5  (below).  The  yrori  pratimana 
also  occurs  m  R.  V.  x.  138,  3. Рђћ See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  362. 

"  Compare  R.  V.  i.  81,  5 ;  ii.  15,  2  ;  vi.  17,  7  ;  vii.  20,  4 ;  vii.  20,  4 ;  vii.  98,  3 ; 
andx.  134,  1  (below). 

'*  Compare  R.  Y.  i.  81,  5 ;  iv.  30,  1 ;  vi.  30,  4 ;  and  vii.  32,  23  (below). 


100  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  IN  WHICH 

B.  V.  i.  81,  5. Рђћ A  paprcm  parikwam  rajo  iadhadhe  roehana  dvui  \  na 
tvdvdn  Indra  haschana  na  jato  na  janishyate  ati  viham  vavakshitha  | 
"He  has  filled  the  terrestrial  region :  he  has  fastened  the  luminaries 
in  the  sky.  No  one  like  thee,  Indra,  hath  been  born,  or  shall  be  bom : 
thou  hast  transcended  the  universe." 

R.  V.  i.  102,  8. Рђћ Trivishti-dhatu  pratmanam  ojasas  tisro  Ihumir 
nripate  trlni  roehana  \  ati  idam  visvam  hhuvanam  vavakshitka  aiatrwr 
Indra  janushd  sanad  asi  \  "The  three  worlds,  0  king,  the  three 
luminaries  are  a  triple  counterpart  of  [thy]  energy.  Thou  hast 
transcended  this  whole  universe.  By  nature,  Indra,  thou  art  of  old 
without  an  enemy."  " 

E.  V.  i.  103,  2. Рђћ Sa  dhdrayat  prithmm  paprathachcha  vajrena  hatvd 
nir  apah  msarja  \  ahann  Ahim  ityadi  \  "He  established  the  earth  and 
stretched  it  out ;  smiting  with  the  thunderbolt,  he  let  loose  the  waters. 
He  slew  Ahi,"  etc.. 

E.  V.  i.  121,  2. Рђћ Stamhhid  ha  dyam  ityadi  |  3.  .  .  .  tastambhad 
dyam  ohatushpade  nary  ay  a  dvipade  \   "  He  has  supported  the  sky,  etc. 

"5 He  has  propped  up  the  sky  for  the  four-footed  [beasts],  and 

for  the  two-footed  race  of  man." 

E.  V.  ii.  12,  1  (Mrukta,  x.  10). Рђћ  To  jatah  eva  prathamo  manasvan 
devo  devdn  Tcratund  paryalhushaf^  |  Yasya  sushmdd  rodast  ahhyasetdm 
nrimmsya  mahnd  sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  2.  Yah  prithivim  vyathamandm 
adrimhad  yah  pwrvatdn  prahupitdn  aramndt  |  yo  antarihsham  vimame 

variyo  yo  dydm  astabhndt  sa  jandsah  Indrah  |  9 Yo  vihasya 

pratimdnam,  bahhma  yo  achyuta-chyut  sa  jandsah  Indrah  \  13.  Bya/od 
chid  asmai  prithivl  namete  iushmach  chid  asya  parvatdh  hhayattte 
ityddi  I 

"  He  who,  immediately  on  his  birth,  the  first,  the  wise,  surpassed 
the  gods  in  force;  at  whose  might  the  two  worlds  shook,  through 
the  greatness  of  his  strength,  he,  0  men,  is  Indra.  2.  He  who  fixed 
the  quivering  earth;  who  gave  stability  to  the  agitated  mountains; 


Рќа"  Compare  E.V.  viii.  21, 13;  x.  133,  2  (below). 

'^  Kratuma  karmana  paryabhmat  paryagrihnat  pm-yarakshad  atyakramad  m  .  .  . 
Hrimnasya  mahna  balasya  mahattvena. Рђћ Nirukta.  At  the  end  of  the  comment  the 
writer  adds :  iti  risher  drishtnrthasya  prltir  bhmaty  ahhyana-samyulcta  \  "  Thus 
when  the  rishi  has  seen  the  subject  [of  his  hymn],  gratification  ensues,  conjoined  with 
a  narrative." 


THE  GEEATNESS  OP  INDEA  IS  CELEBEATEB.      101 

who  measured"  the  vast  atmosphere;  who  propped  up  the  sky,  he,  0 
men,  is  Indra.  9>  .  .  He  who  has  been  a  counterpart  of  the  universe; 
who  casts  down  the  unskaken,  he,  0  men,  is  Indra.  .  .  .  13.  Even  the 
sky  and  the  earth  bow  down  to  him ;  even  of  his  might  the  mountains 
are  afraid,"  etc. 

E.  V.  ii,  15,  1. Рђћ Pra  ghu  nu  asya  mahato  mahdni  aatyS  satyasya 
karandni  vocham  \  trileadruheshu  apibat  sutasya  asya  made  ahim  Indro 
jaghana  \  2.  Avamke  dyam  astahhayad  hrihantam  a  rodasi  aprinad 
antariksham  \  sa  dharayat  prithimm  paprathaeh  cha  somasya  ta  made 
Ind/rak  ohahara  \  3.  Sadmeva  praeho  vi  mimdya  mdnair  ityadi  \ 

"I  declare  the  mighty  deeds  of  this  mighty  one;  the  true  acts  of 
this  true  one.  From  the  three  cups  Indra  drank  of  the  soma,  and  in 
its  exhilaration  he  slew  Ahi.  2.  He  propped  up  the  vast  sky  in  empty 
space  ;'*  he  hath  filled  the  two  worlds,  and  the  atmosphere.  He  hath 
upheld  the  earth,  and  stretched  it  out.^  Indra  has  done  these  things  in 
the  exhilaration  of  the  soma.  3.  He  measured  with  measures  the 
eastern  (regions)  as  an  abode,"  etc. 

K.  V.  iii.  30,  9. Рђћ Ni  sdmandm  ishiram  Indra  hhumim  maJilm  aparam 
sadane  sasattha  {  astabhnad  dyam  vrishahho  antarilcsAam  arshantu  apas 
tvayeha  prasutdh  \  "Thou,  Indra,  hast  fixed  in  its  place  the  level, 
the  blooming,'"  earth,  the  great,  the  boundless.  The  vigorous  god  has 
propped  up  the  sky,  and  the  atmosphere :  may  the  waters  fl.ow,  sent 
forth  now  by  thee." 

E.  Y.  iii.  32,  7. Рђћ  Taj'dma  id  namasd  vriddham  Indram  hrihantam 
rishvam  aja/rafh  ywvdnam  I  yasya  priye  mamatur  yajniyasya  na  rodasi 
mahimdnam  mamdte  |  8.  Indrasya  karma  sukritd  puruni  vratdni  devdK 
na  minanti  visve  \  dddJtdra  yah  prithimm  dyam  utemdm  jajdna  suryam 
ushasafh  sudamsdh  |  9.  Adrogha  satyam  tava  tad  mahitvam  sadyo  yaf 
jdto  apiho  ha  somam  \  na  dydvah  Indra  tavasas  te  oj┬╗  ndhd  na  mdsdb 
iarado  vmranta '"  | 

"  Compare  E.V.  i.  154, 1,  3,  and  the  otlier  corresponding  passages  above,  p.  69  ff. ; 
and  E.V.  ii.  15,  3,  immediately  following.  The  word  here,  however,  may  mean  "  con- 
structed."   With  the  first  part  of  the  verse  compare  E.  V.  x.  149,  1,  helow  (p.  110). 

'8  Compare  E.  V.  x.  149,  1  (below) ;  and  Job  xxvi.  7,  "  He  stretoheth  out  the 
north  over  the  empty  place,  and  hangeth  the  earth  upon  nothing."  See  also  E.  V. 
X.  111.  6  ;  and  vi.  72,  2  (below). 

"  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  ┬Ф.┬╗.,  explain  ishira  as  meaning  "iresh,"  "blooming."' 

*"  Compare  verse  16  of  this  same  hymn,  and  E.  V.  viii.  77,  3  :  Na  tva  brihanto 
aclrayo  varante  \  "  The  mighty  mountains  do  not  stop  thee." 


102  FUETHEE  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA 

""We  worship,  with  reverence,  the  mighty  Indra,  the  powerful, 
the  exalted,  the  undecayiBg,  the  youthful.  The  beloTed"  worlds 
(heaven  and  earth)  have  not  measured,  nor  do  they  [now]  measure, 
the  greatness  of  this  adorable  being.*'*  8.  Many  are  the  excellent 
works  which  Indra  has  done;  not  all  the  gods  are  able  to  frustrate 
the  counsels  of  him,  who  established  the  earth,  and  this  sky,  and, 
wonder-working,  produced  the  sun  and  the  dawn.  9.  0  innoxious  god, 
thy  greatness  has  been  veritable  since  that  time  when,  as  soon  as  thou 
wast  born,  thou  dids't  drink  the  soma.  Neither  the  heavens,  nor  the 
days,  nor  the  months,  nor  the  seasons,  can  resist  the  energy  of  thee 
[who  art]  mighty." 

K.  v.  iii.  44,  3. Рђћ By  am  Indro  haridhayasam  prithivvm  harwca'pasam\ 
ndharayad  ityadi  \  "Indra  upheld  the  sky  with  its  golden  supports, 
and  the  earth  with  its  golden  form,''  etc.'' 

K.  V.  iv.  16,  S. Рђћ  Vaoakshe  Indro  amitam  rifishl  uihe  a  prapmi  rodasi 
mahitva  \  atak  chid  asya  mahimS,  vireehi  ahhi  yo  viivd  bhuvana  habhuva  ( 
"The  impetuous'*  Indra  hath  waxed  immeasurably;  he  has  filled  both 
worlds  with  his  vastness.  Even  beyond  this  extends  the  majesty  of 
him  who  transcends  all  the  worlds." 

K.  V.  iv.  30,  l.-^-NaMr  Indra  tvad  uttaro  najyaydn  usti  VrHrahan\ 
nakir  &ua  yatha  tvam  |  "  There  is  none,  Indra,  higher  than  thee,  or 
superior  to  thee,  thou  slayer  of  Yritra ;  neither  is  there  any  like  thee." 

E.  V.  vi.  17,  7. Рђћ Pdpratha  hhdm  mahi  damso  vi  urvtm  upa  dfdm 
rishvo  irihad  Indra  stabhdyah  \  adhdrayo  rodasi  devaputre  pratne  mdiara 
yahit  ritasya \  "Thou  hast  filled  the  broad  earth  with  thy  mighty 

*'  Sajana  explains i3rsV┬Ф  as  meaning  aparimite,  "immeasurable." Рђћ See  vii.  87,  2. 

^  Dr.  Aufreoht  proposes  to  trajisMe  the  last  clause  thus :  "  his  heloved  (spouses), 
heaven  and  earth,  imagine,  -but  do  not  measure  ( =  comprehend)  the  greatness  of  this 
holy  being."  He  regards  the  repetition  of  the  root  ma,  "  to  measure  "  in  two  different 
forms  as  purposeless,  and  conjectures  that  mamatuh  may  be  the  perfect  of  man,  and 
used  for  mamanatuh  or  mamnatuh.  Compare  the  aorist  amata,  and  sasman  for 
sasanvan;  see  also  E.  V.  Tii.  31,  7 :  Mahan  asi  yasya  te  ^nu  svadhavari  sahah  \  mam- 
nate  Indra  rodasi  |  "  Thou  art  great,  (thou)  to  whose  energy  the  self-supporting 
Heaven  and  Earth  have  submitted  themselves." 

s'  In  the  hymn  from  which  this  verse  is  taken,  the  changes  are  rung  on  the  words 
hari,  harita,  etc. 

^  See  Bbhtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  under  the  word  riJTshin,  and  Benfey's  note 
260,  on  E.V,  i.  32,  6,  in  his  "  Orient  und  Occident."  The  verse  before  us  (iv.  16,  6) 
ia  translated  by  the  same  author  in  his  Grlossary  to  S.Y.,  p.  162,  See  also  his  Glossary 
to  the  Samaveda,  s.v.  rijishin. 


IN  РќаWHICH  INDRA  IS  CELEBEATED.  103 

works;  thou,  Indra,  exalted,  hast  mightily  propped  up  the  sky; 
thou  hast  supported  the  two  worlds,  of  whom  the  gods  are  the  off- 
spring, the  ancient  and  mighty  parents  of  holy  rites." 

E.  V.  vi.  30,  4. Рђћ Satyam  it  tad  na  tvavan  anyo  asti  Indra  devo  na 
martyo  jy&yan  ityadi  \  "  This  is  a  truth,  there  is  no  other,  god  or 
mortal,  like  thee,  Indra,  or  greater  than  thee,"  etc. 

E.  V.  vi.  31,  2. Рђћ Tvad-lMya  Indra.  pdrthwdni  viiva  achyutd  chit 
ehydvayante  rajdmsi  \  dydvd-kshdmd  parvatdso  vandni  viivafn  drilham 
hhayate  ajmann  d  te  \  "  Through  fear  of  thee,  Indra,  all  the  mundane, 
regions,  however  steady,  totter ;  heaven  and  earth,  mountains,  forests, 
everything  that  is  ┬Бxed,  is  afraid  at  thy  coming." 

E.  V.  vi.  38,  3. Рђћ Tam  vo  dhiyd  pwramayd  purdjdm  ajaram  Indram 
abhi  anusM  arkair  ityddi  \  "I  have  lauded  with  an  excellent  prayer, 
and  with  praises,  thee,  Indra,  born  of  old,  and  undecaying." 

E.  V.  vii.  20,  4. Рђћ  Uhhe  chid  Indra  rodasi  mahitvd  d  paprdtha  ta- 
vishliMs  tuvishmah  ityddi  |  "Thou,  powerful  Indra,  hast  filled  both 
worlds  with  thy  mighty  deeds,"  etc. 

E.  V.  vii.  32,  16. Рђћ Tava  id  Indra  avamam  vasu  tvam  pushyasi  ma- 
dhyamam  |  satrd  visvasya  paramasya  rajasi  nahis  tvd  goshu  vrinvate  \ 
....  22.  Alhi  tvd  iura  nonumah  adugdhdh  iva  dhena/vah  \  lidnam 
asyajagatah  svardrisam  lidnam  Indra  tasthushah  |  23.  Na  tvdvdn  anyo 
divyo  na pdrthivo  najdto  na  janishyate  ityddi^^  \ 

"  Thine,  0  Indra,  is  the  lowest  wealth ;  thou  possessest  the  middle ; 
verily  thou  rulest  over  all  the  very  highest;  none  resist  thee  among  the 
cattle.  ....  22.  "We,  0  heroic  Indra,  like  unmilked  cows,  approach 
with  our  praises  thee  who  art  the  heavenly  lord  of  this  moving,  and 
of  the  stationary  [world].  23.  No  one,  celestial  or  terrestrial,  has 
been  born,  or  shall  be  bom,  like  to  thee." 

E.  y.  vii.  98,  3  (=A.  V.  20,  87,  3).Рђћ  ....  J  Indra  paprdtha 
uru  antarihham  yudhd  devebhyo  varivai  chaka/rtha  |  .  .  .  .  "Indra, 
thou  hast  fiUed  the  wide  sky :  thou  hast  by  battle  acquired  freedom 
for  the  gods."  "^ 


85  This  entire  hymn  is  translated  in  Miiller's  Anc.  Sansk.  Lit.  pp.  643  ff. 

86  The  words  at  the  close  of  this  verse  occur  also  in  R.V.  i.  59,  5  (see  below).  In 
regard  to  varivah,  compare  E.  V.  i.  63, 7  :  amhoh  rajcm  varivah  Purmie  hah  |  "Thou 
affordedst  relief  to  Puru  from  his  strait."  The  word  occurs  E.  V.  ii.  97,  16,  in  th┬Ф 
plural,  varivamsi  krinvan.    In  the  Nighantu,  2,  10,  it  is  said  to  mean  "  wealth." 


104  ADDITIONAL  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA 

E.  V.  viii.  3,  6  (=S.  V.  ii.  938). Рђћ Indro  mahna  roiasi  papratMch 
chhavah  Ini/rah  suryam  wroehayat  \  Indre  ha  viha  Ihmanani  yemire 
ityadi  \  "The  mighty  Indra  hy  his  power  has  spread  out  the  two 
worlds;  Indra  has  lighted  up  the  Sun:  on  Indra  all  the  worlds  are 
supported,"  etc." 

E.  V.  viii.  21,  13  (=S.  V.  1,  399;  A.  V.  20,  114,  l).РђћAhhratrivyo 
ana  tvam  anapir  Indra  janusha  sanad  asi  \  yudhd  id  apitvam  iohhase  | 
"  Indra,  by  thy  nature,  thou  art  indeed  of  old  without  a  rival,  with- 
out a  fellow.     By  battle  thou  seekest  alliance." 

E.  V.  viii.  36,  4. Рђћ Janita  divo janita, prithivyah  ityadi  \  "Generator 
of  the  sky,  generator  of  the  earth,"  etc.  (Indra). 

E.  V.  viii.  37,  3.^ Рђћ Eharad  asya  hhuvanasya  rdjasi  ityadi  \  "  Thou 
rulest  a  sole  monarch  over  this  world,"  etc.  (Indra). 

E.  V.  viii.  61,  2. Рђћ Ayujo  asamo  nrihldr  ehah  kriahtir  ayasyah  \ 
purvir  ati  pravdvridhe  visvd  Jatany  ojasa  ityadi  \  "  "Without  a  fellow, 
unequalled  by  men,  [Indra]  alone,  unconquerable,  has  surpassed  in  power 
many  tribes,  and  all  creatures." 

E.  V.  viii.  59,  5  (=S.  Y.  i.  278). Рђћ Yad  dydvah  Indra  te  iatam  satam 
bhumtr  uta  syuh  \  na  tvd  vcyrin  sahasram  surydh  anu  na  jdtam  ashta 
rodasl  |  "If,  Indra,  a  hundred  skies,  and  a  hundred  earths  were  thine, 
a  thousand  suns  could  not  equal  thee,  thunderer,  nor  could  anything 
created,  [nor]  the  two  worlds." 

This  verse  is  quoted  and  briefly  commented  on  in  the  Nirukta  Pari^- 
ishtai.  1,  ff. :  Atha  imdh  atistutayah  ity  aehahshate  api  vd  sampratyayah 
eva  syad  mahdhhagyad  devatdydh  \  .  .  Tadi  te  Indra  iatam  divah  satam! 
Hhumayah  pratimandni  syur  na  tvd  vajrin  sahasram  api  surydh  na  dydvd- 
prithivydv  apy  ahhyasnuvltdm  iti  \  "  Now  these  [which  follow]  are 
what  are  called  exaggerated  praises ;  or  they  may  be  expressions  of 
perfect  faith  owing  to  the  grandeur  of  the  Deity."     Then,  after  citing 

"  In  the  Sth  verse  of  this  hymn  (  =8.  V.  2,  924  ;  Vaj.  S.  33,  97 ;  A.  V.  20,  99, 
2)  the  following  words  occur  :  asyed  Indro  vavridhe  vrishnyam  iava  made  autasya 
vishnavi]  "Indra  increased  his  fecundating  strength,  in  the  exhilaration  of  this  soma, 
at  the  sacrifice."  Vis/inavi,  the  word  here  rendered  "sacrifice,"  is  the  locative 
case  of  vishnu.  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.,  think  the  word  here  has  this  sense, 
as  the  Brdhmanas  frequently  employ  the  phrase  yaj'no  vai  Vishnuh  \  "  Yishnu  is  the 
sacrifice."  The  commentator  of  the  Vaj.  Sanhita  explains  it  hy  sarva-s'arJra- 
vyapalee,  "That  which  pervades  the  whole  body."     Sayana,  too,  makes  \t=kritma- 


IN  WHICH  INDRA  IS  CELEBRATED.  105 

passages  referring  to  Agni  and  Varuna,  the  writer  quotes  the  verse 
before  us,  and  thus  paraphrases  it:  "If,  Indra,  a  hundred  skies,  a 
hundred  earths  be  the  counterparts  [with  which  thou  art  compared], 
not  even  a  thousand  suns,  0  thunderer,  nor  heaven  and  earth,  can  equal 
thee." 

E.  V.  viii.  67,  5. Рђћ Nahim  Indro  nikarfave  na  S'akrah  pariiaUave 
visvam  srinoti  pasyati  \  "  Indra  is  not  to  be  overcome,  S'akra  is  not  to 
be  overpowered.     He  hears  and  sees  all  things."  ^ 

E.  V.  viii.  77,  4. Рђћ  Toddha  'si  kratvd  iavasota  daihsana  viha  jatd 
abhi  majmand  \  a  tvd  ayam  arhxh  utaye  vavartati  yam  Gotamah 
ajijanan  \  5.  (S.  V.  1,  312.)  Pra  hi  ririhhe  ojasd  divo  antebhyas^^ 
pari  I  na  tvd  vivydcha  rajah  Indra  pdrthivam  anu  svadhdm  vavakshitha  \ 

"A  warrior,  thou  surpassest  aU.  creatures  in  power,  in  vigour,  in 
exploits,  in  strength.  This  hymn,  which  the  Gotamas  have  generated, 
incites  thee  to  succour  us.  5.  Eor  by  thy  might  thou  hast  overpassed 
the  bounds  of  the  sky.  The  mundane  region  hath  not  contained  thee : 
thou  hast  grown  according  to  thine  own  will." "" 

K.  V.  viii.  78,  5  (=S.  V.  ii.  779  f.) Рђћ Taj  jdyatMh  apurvya  Maghavan 
Vritra-hatydya  \  tat  prithimm  aprathayas  tad  astahhndh  uta  dydm  \  6. 
Tat  te  yajno  ajdyata  tad  arkah  uta  hashritih  \  tad  visvam  abhibhur  asi 
yajjatam  yacheha  Jantvam  \  " 

"  "When  thou,  0  unrivalled  Maghavan  (Indra),  wast  bom  for  the 
destruction  of  Vritra,  then  thou  didst  spread  out  the  earth,  and  then 
thou  didst  establish  the  sky.  6.  Then  was  thy  sacrifice  produced ; 
then  thy  hymn  and  thy  song  of  praise.  Then  thou  didst  transcend  all 
things  that  have  been  born,  or  shall  be  born." 

E.  V.  viii..  82,  11. Рђћ Yasya  te  nu  chid  ddiiam  na  minanti  svardjyafh 
na  devo  na  adhrigwt  janah  \  "  Whose  command,  and  empire,  no  one, Рђћ 
whether  god,  or  audacious  mortal, Рђћ can  resist." 

E.  V.  viii.  86,  9. Рђћ Na  tva  devasah  diata  na  martydso  adrivah  \  visvd 

68  This  hymn  is  translated  by  Professor  Miiller,  Zeitsch.  D.  M.  G.  for  1853,  p.  375. 

Рёб  Instead  of  antehhyah  the  S.  V.  reads  sadobhyah. 

'"  At  the  end  of  the  verse  the  S.  V.  reads  ati  visvam  vcmakshitha  \  "Thou  hast 
transcended  the  universe."    On  the  sense  of  svadha,  see  Roth,  lUust.  of  Nir.  pp.  40  f.  - 
and  132 ;  and  Miiller,  Transl.  of  K.  V.  vol.  i.  pp.  49  ff. 

"  Compare  the  words  yad  bhutam  yaehoha  bhavyam  m  the  Purusha  Sutta,  R.  V. 
X.  90,  2.  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  in  the  early  part  of  which  this  entire 
hymn  is  translated. 


106  ADDITIONAL  TEXTS  OP  THE  EIGVEDA 

jatani  savasa  dbUlMr  asiityadi  \  10  (S.  Y.  i.  370).  Vihahpritandh 
abhibhutaram  naram  '^  sajus  tataleshur  Indram  jqfanws  cha  rajase  \  kratva 
varishtham  vare ''  amurim  uta  ugram  ojishtham  tavasam-^^  tarasvinam  \ 

"  Thee,  0  hurler  of  rocks,  neither  gods  nor  mortals  have  equalled. 
Thou  transoeudest  in  power  all  creatures,  etc.  10.  They,  united,  have 
formed  and  generated  for  dominion  the  heroic  Indra,  the  vanquisher  of 
all  armies,  eminent  in  power,  destroyer,  fierce,  strong,  vigorous,  and 
swift." 

E.  V.  viii.  87,  2. Рђћ Xham  Indra  abhibhur  asi  tvam  suryam  a/roohayah  \ 
viivakarma  visvadevo  mahan  asi  \  "  Thou,  Indra,  art  the  most  powerful ; 
thou  hast  kindled  the  sun ;  thou  art  great,  the  architect  of  all  things, 
and  the  lord  of  all." 

E.  V.  X.  43,  6  (=A.  V.  20,  17,  5;  Mr.  5,  22). Рђћ Kritam  na  ivaghnl 
vichinoti  devane  safhvargam  yad  Maghava  suryam  jay  at  \  natat  te  anyo  anu 
viryam  sakad  napurano  Maghavan  na  uta  nutanah  \  "  When  Maghavan 
has  conquered  spoils  ┬░*  from  the  sun,  he  is  like  a  gamester  who  gathers 
in  his  gains  at  play.'*  No  other,  Maghavan,  either  old  or  recent,  can 
imitate  that  thy  prowess." 

E.  V.  X.  48,  3. Рђћ Malvyam  Ihashta  vajram  atalcshad  ayasam  mayi  devdso 
avrij'ann  api  kratum  \  mama  anilcam  suryasya  iva  dustaram  mam  dryanti 
Icritena  kartvena  cha  \  "Tvashtri  fashioned  for  me  (Indra)  an  iron 
thunderbolt;  into  me  the  gods  have  infused  force.  My  splendour  is 
unsurpassed,  like  that  of  the  sun.  Men  praise  me  for  what  I  have 
done  and  shall  do." 

E.  V.  X.  86,  1  (=A.  V.  XX.  126,  1). Рђћ .  .  .  .  vUvasmad  Tndrah 
uttarah  \  (Kepeated  at  the  close  of  every  verse  of  this  hymn.)  "  Indra 
is  superior  to  every  other." 

^  The  Sama-veda  reads  mwah. 

*'  The  Sama-veda  reads  kraive  vare  sthemany  amurim.  It  is  difficult  to  assign  a 
sense  to  vare  in  the  text. 

'*  The  Sama-veda  reads  tarasam, 

'5  Sayaua  explains  samvargam  as  =  samyag  vHshter  varjayitarcm,  \  "  discharger  of 
rain."  The  word,  as  Dr.  Aufrecht  informs  me,  occurs  only  once  again  in  the  R.  V. 
viz.  in  viii.  64,  12 :  smmargam  sam  rayim  jay  a  \  and  he  adds  that  the  translation 
"  spoils  "  is  supported  by  several  passages  of  the  S'.  P.  Br,  e.g.  i.  7,  2,  24  (p.  69) : 
Рќаpitur  dayam  wpeyuh  .  .  ,  kathaih  nv  imam  api  samvfinfimahi  (Schol.  apaharemahi); 
Ihid.  samavrinjata,  samvrinhte.  S'.  P.  Br.  i.  9,  2,  34  :  sarvam  yajnam  samvryya 
{=mmapU-purvam  samhritya).  In  the  E.  V.  Indra  is  called  aamvrik  samatsu  "  the 
spoiler  in  battles." 

9┬Ф  The  same  phrases  occur  in  E.  V.  x.  42,  9,  and  A.  V.  7,  50,  6 ;  20,  89,  9, 


IN  WHICH  INDEA  IS  CELEBRATED.  107 

E.  V.  X.  Ill,  1. Рђћ Mamshinai^ pra  hhamdhvam  manisham  yatha  yathS, 
matayah  santi  nrindm  \  Indram  satyair  a  Irayama  kritebhih  sa  hi  nro 
girvanasyur  vidanah  \  2.  Ritasya  hi  sadaso  dMtir  adyaut  saw,  garshteyo 
vrishabho  gobhir  anat  \  ud  atishthai  tavishem  ravena  mahdnti  chid 
samvivydoha  rty'dmsi  {  3.  Inirah  Mia  irutyai  asya  veda  sa  hi  jishnuh 
pathihrit  swrydya  \  ad  mendm  krinvann  achyuto  bhuvad  goji  patir  divah 
saruydi,  apratitah  \  4.  Indro  mahnd  mahato  arnavasya  vrata  amindd 
Angirobhir  grindnah  \  piiruni  chid  ni  tatdna  rajdmd  dddhdra  yo 
dharunaih  satyatdtd  ]  5.  Indro  divah  pratimdnam  prithivydh  viivd 
veda  sa/oand  hanti  Svshnam  \  mahim  chid  dydm  a  atanot  suryena 
chaskawtbha  chit  skambhanena  skabhlyan  \ 

"Sages,  present  the  prayer,  according  as  are  the  various  thoughts  of 
men.  Let  us  move  Indra,  with  his  genuine  acts,  for  he  is  a  hero,  and 
loves  our  hymns.  2.  The  hymn  has  shone  forth  from  the  place  of  sacri- 
fice. The  bull,  offspring  of  a  heifer,  has  approached  the  cows;  he  has 
arisen  with  a.  loud  bellowing;  hehasembracedinhimselfthe  vast  regions. 
3.  Indra  by  hearing  is  surely  aware  of  this  [hymn].  Por  he,  the 
victorious,  has  formed  a  path  for  the  sun,  and  then  creating  the  female 
of  the  buU,  became  the  unshaken,  eternal  and  matchless  lord  of  the  sky 
(compare  B,.  Y.  i.  51,  13^  i.  121,  2).  4.  Celebrated  fey  the  Angirases, 
Indra  by  his  power  has  defeated  the  designs  of  the  great  streaming 
[cloud-demon] ; "  he  has  stretched  out  many  worlds,  he  who  has  laid 
a  foundation  in  truti.  6.  Indra,  [who  is]  the  counterpart  of  the 
heaven  and  of  the  earth,  knows  all  libations,  slays  S'ushna ;  with  the 
sun,  he  has  extended  the  vast  sky,  and,  [being]  a  strong  supporter, 
he  has  supported  it  with  a  support."  '^ 

E.  V.  X.  133,  2  (=S.  T.  ii.  1151). Рђћ 2ham  sindhun  avdsrijah  adha- 
rdcho  ahamn  Ahim  \  aiatrv/r  Indra  joynishe  viham  pushyasi  vdryam 
ityadi  \  "Thou  hast  let  loose  the  streams  to  flow  downwards;  thou 
hast  slain  Ahi.  Indra,  thou  hast  been  born  without  a  foe:  thou 
possessest  aU  that  is  desirable,"  etc. 
E.  V.  I.  134,  1  (=S.  T.  i.  379). Рђћ  Ubhe  yad  Indra  rodasl  dpaprdtha 

"  That  thig  is  the  allTision  in  the  word  amava  is  shown  hy  the  following  passage  ^ 
E.  V.  X.  67,  2. Рђћ Jndro  mahna  mahato  arnmasga  vi  murdhanam  abhinad  Arbudasya 
ityadi  \  "Indra  by  his  power  split  asunder  the  head  of  the  great  streaming  Arbuda," 
etc. 

88  Compare  E.  V.  vi.  72,  2,  below. 


108    TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  0ELEBEATIN6  THE  GEEATNESS 

ushah  iva  \  mahanta'ih  tva  mahinam  samrajafh,  chmrshaninam  \  devi  janitrl 
ajijanad  Ihadra  janitri  aj'yanat^  |  "When  thou,  Indra,  like  the  dawn, 
didst  fill  both  the  worlds,  a  divine  mother  bore  thee,  the  mighty 
monarch  of  mighty  creatures, Рђћ a  gracious  mother  bore  thee." 

How  great  soever  the  attributes  assigned  to  Indra  may  be,  we  see 
that  here  he  is  not  regarded  as  a  self-existent  being,  but  as  the  son  of 
a  mother.  See  the  earlier  part  of  the  account  of  this  deity  in  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work. 

The  two  following  texts  refer  to  Indra  in  conjunction  with  another 
god: 

E.  V.  vi.  72,  2. Рђћ Indra-Somd  vdiayatha  usJtasam  ut  suryam  nayatho 
jyotishd  saha  \  upa  dydm  skambJtatJmh  shambhanena  aprathatam  prithi- 
vlm  mdtaram  vi  \  "  Indra  and  Soma,  ye  cause  the  dawn  to  shine,  ye 
make  the  sun  to  rise  with  the  Hght.  Te  have  propped  up  the  sky 
with  a  support,  Рёб  ye  have  spread  out  the  earth,  the  mother." 

E.  V.  vii.  82,  5. Рђћ Indrd-Varund  yad  imdni  ehahrathur  viivd  j'dtdni 
hhuvanasya  majmand  ityddi  \  "  Indra  and  Varuna,  since  ye  have  made 
all  these  creatures  of  the  world  by  your  power,"  etc. 

The  passages  next  following  celebrate  the  divine  attributes  of  Varuna : 

E.  V.  i.  24,  8. Рђћ  Urum  hi  rajd  Varum┬Д  chakara  surydya  pantham 
anu-etavai  u  ityddi  \  "King  Varuna  hath  made  a  broad  path  for  the 
sun  to  foUow,"  etc. 

E.  V.  ii.  27, 10. Рђћ Tvam  viiveshdm  Varum  asi  rdj'd  ye  eha  devdh  asura 
ye  cha  martdh  \  "  Thou,  divine  Varuna,  art  king  of  all,  both  of  those 
who  are  gods,  and  of  those  who  are  men." Рђћ Quoted  in  Miiller's  Anc. 
Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  634. 

E.  V.  vi.  70,  1. Рђћ Qhritavatl  Ihuvandndm  abhiiriyd  urvl  prithvi  ma- 
dhvrdughe  siipeiasd  \  dydva-prithivl  Varunasya  dharmand  vishhahhite 
ajare  hhuri-retasd  I  "Full  of  fatness,  the  common  abodes  of  creatures, 
wide,  broad,  dropping  sweetness,  beautiful  in  form,  heaven  and  earth 
are  sustained  asunder  by  the  support  of  Varuna,  undecaying,  abundant 
in  fertility." 

E.  V.  vii.  86,  1. Рђћ DMrd  tu  my  a  mahind  janumshi  vi  yas  tastambha 
rodasi  cldd  urvl  \  pra  ndkam  risfmam  nunude  brihantam  dviid  nahshatram, 
paprathach  eha  bhuma  \   "  Wise  are  his  creations  who  by  his  power 

^'  The  last  line  is  repeated  at  the  close  of  each  of  the  fiye  following  verses. 
w┬╗  Compare  E.  V.  ii.  15,  2;  x.  Ill,  5;  and  x.  149,  1,  below. 


OF  INDllA,  SOMA,  VAETOA  AND  SUETA.  109 

propped  asunder  the  two  worlds,  thought  vast.  He  raised  up  the  lofty 
and  wide  firmament,  and  spread  out  apart  the  stars  and  the  earth." Рђћ 
This  hymn  is  translated  in  Miiller's  Sansk.  Lit.,  pp.  540  f. 

E.  V.  vii.  87,  1. Рђћ Radat  patho  Varmah  suryaya  pra  arnamsi  samu- 
Ariya  nadtnam  |  sorgo  ""*  tia  srishto  arvatir  ritayan  chakara  mahir  a/ovmir 
dkabhyah  |  2.  Atma  te  vato  rajah  a  navinot  pa&ur  no,  hhurnir  yavase  sa- 
savan  '┬░┬░^  |  antar  maM  brihati  rodasl  ime  vUva  te  dhama  Varuna  priydni  \ 

"Varuna  has  opened  out  paths  for  the  sun,  and  the  courses  of 
the  rivers  leading  to  the  ocean.  Like  a  troop  (of  horses)  let  loose, 
following  the  mares,  he.  has  made  great  channels  for  the  days,  2.  The 
wind,  thy  hreath,  has  sounded  through  the  atmosphere,  like  an  im- 
petuous beast  rushing  along  a  pasture.  Within  [thee  ?]  are  these  two 
great  and  vast  worlds;  all  thy  realms,  0  Varuna,  are  beloved."  "' 

E.  Y.  viii.  42,  1. Рђћ Astabhnad  dyam  Aswo  vUvawddh  ammlta  vari- 
manam  prithivyah  \  asidad  visvd  ihuvandni  samrdd  viivd  it  tdni  Varu- 
nasya  vratdni  \  2.  lEva  vandasva  Varuna/fh  hrihantam  namasya  dhiram 
amritasya  gopdm  |  sa  nah  iarma  trivarutham  viyamsad  ityddi  \ 

"The  omniscient  Spirit  {Asura)  has  propped  up  the  sky;  he  has 
measured  '"^  the  expanse  of  the  earth ;  he  has  occupied  all  the  worlds, 
the  monarch  :  all  these  are  the  achievements  of  Varuna.  2.  Eeverence, 
then,  the  mighty  Varuna,  bow  down  before  the  wise  guardian  of  im- 
mortality.    May  he  extend  to  us  triple  protection,"  etc. 

The  next  texts  refer  to  the  Sun  (Surya,  Aditya,  or  Savitri) : 

E.  V.  i.  50,  7. Рђћ  Vi  dydm  eshi  rcy'as  prithv  ahd  mimdno  aktulhih  \ 
pasyan  janmdni  Surya  \  "  Thou  traversest  the  sky,  the  broad  expanse, 
measuring  the  days  with  thy  rays ;  beholding  created  things,  0  Surya." 

E.  V.  viii.  90,  11,  12  (=S.  V.  ii.  1138,  9).Рђћ Bad  mahdn  asi  Surya 
had  Aditya  mahdn  asi  \  mahas  te  sato  mahimd  panasyate  addha  deva 
mahdn  asi  \  Bat  Surya  iravasd  mahdn  asi  satrd  deva  mahdn  asi  \  mahna 
devdndm  asuryah  purohito  vihhujyotir  addhhyam  \ 

"  Verily,  Surya,  thou  art  great;  verUy,  Aditya,  thou  art  great.  The 
majesty  of  thee  who  art  great  is  celebrated :  certainly,  god,  thou  art 
great.     12.  Verily,  Surya,  thou  art  great  in  renown :  0  god,  thou  art 

"┬╗'  The  word  sar^a  occurs  also  in  R.  V.  i.  190,  2;  iii.  33,  4;  vi.  32,  5;  vi.  46,  13. 
loot  In  regard  to  this  participle,  see  the  note  (82)  on  R.  V.  iii.  32,  7,  above,  p.  102. 
Ill  See  note  (81)  on  E.  V.  iii.  32,  7,  above,  p.  102. 
'"*  See  above,  p.  71. 


no  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA  IN  'WHICH 

truly  great;  through  thy  greatness  thou  art  the  divine  leader  of  the 
gods,  the  pervading,  irresistible  luminary." 

K.  V.  X.  149,  1. Рђћ Savita  yantraih  prithMm  aramndd  asJcamhhane 
Savita  dyam  adrimhat  \  aham  iva  adhukshad  dhunim  antmrihsham 
aturte  laddJiam  Savita  samudram  \  2.  Yatra  samudrah  slealMto  vi- 
aunad  apam  napdt  Savita  tasya  veda  \  ato  hhur  atah  ah  utthitam  rajo  ato 
dydva-prithivl  aprathetam  \ 

"  Savitri  has  established  the  earth  by  supports ;  Savitri  has  fixed 
the  sky  in  unsupported  space ; ""  Savitri  has  milked  the  atmosphere, 
which  resembles  a  sounding  horse, Рђћ the  ocean  fastened  in  the  impas- 
sable expanse.  2.  Savitri,  the  son  of  the  waters,  knows  the  place  where 
the  ocean,  supported,  issued  forth.  Erom  him  the  earth,  from  him  the 
atmosphere  arose ;  from  him  the  heaven  and  earth  extended." 

""  In  later  times,  as  is  well  known,  the  earth  is  represented  in  Hindu  mythology 
as  resting  on  the  head  of  the  serpent  S'esha,  or  on  some  other  support.  Thus  it  is  said 
in  the  Vishnu  Pur.  ii.  5, 19  CWilson,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  ii.  212) :  Sa  bibhrat  iehhari-hhutam 
aieshafnlcshiti-mandalam  \aste patala-mula-sthah S'esho  ' ^esha-stirarchitaA\  "S'esha, 
worshipped  by  all  the  gods,  supports  the  whole  region  of  the  earth  which  forms  a  diadem 
on  his  head,  and  stands  beneath  the  base  of  Patala."  The  Siddhantas,  or  scientific 
astronomical  works  of  India,  however,  maintain  that  the  earth  is  unsupported.  Thus 
it  is  said  in  the  Siddhanta-s'iromani,  iii.  2 :  Bhumeh  pindah  sas'ania-Jna-kan-ravi- 
kuje/yarki-nakshatra-Jcakshonvrittair  iiritah  san  mrid-anila-salila-vyoma-tyomayo 
'yam  |  nanyadhdrah  sva-a'aktyaiva  viyati  niyatam  tisthati  ityadi  \  ...  4.  Murto 
dhoHd  cJied  dharitryaa  tad-anyas  tasydpyanyo  'syaivam  atrdntmasthd  \  antye  kalpya 
chet  sva-iaktih  kim  ddye  kim  no  bhumir  ityadi  \  which  is  thus  translated  by  the  late 
Mr.  L.  'Wilkinson  in  the  Bibl.  Indica  (new  series),  No.  13  :  "  2.  This  globe  of  the 
earth  formed  of  [the  five  elementary  principles]  earth,  air,  water,  the  ether,  and  fire, 
is  perfectly  round,  and  encompassed  by  the  orbits  of  the  Moon,  Mercury,  Venus,  the 
Sun,  Mars,  Jupiter,  and  Saturn,  and  by  the  constellations.  It  has  no  [material]  sup- 
porter ;  but  stands  firmly  in  the  expanse  of  heaven  by  its  own  inherent  force.  On 
its  surface  throughout  subsist  [in  security]  all  animate  and  inanimate  objects,  Danujas 
and  human  beings,  gods  and  Daityas."  ..."  4.  If  the  earth  were  supported  by  any 
material  substance  or  living  creature,  then  that  would  require  a  second  supporter, 
and  for  that  second  a  third  would  be  required.  Here  we  have  the  absurdity  of  an 
interminable  series.  If  the  last  of  the  series  be  supposed  to  remain  firm  by  its  own 
inherent  power,  then  why  may  not  the  same  power  be  supposed  to  exist  in  the  first Рђћ 
that  is,  in  the  earth  P  For  is  not  the  earth  one  of  the  forms  of  the  eight-fold 
divinity,  i.e.  of  S'ivaf "  Arya  Bhatta,  one  of  the  most  ancient  of  Indian  scientific 
astronomers,  even  maintained  that  the  alternation  of  day  and  night  is  the  result  of 
the  rotation  of  the  earth  on  its  own  axis.  His  words,  as  quoted  by  Mr.  Colebrooke 
(Essays,  ii.  p.  392),  are  these :  Bha-panjarah  sthiro  bhur  evdmityavritya prdtidaivasikdv 
udaydstamayau  sampadayati  nakshatra-yrahdndm  |  "  The  starry  firmament  is  fixed. 
It  is  the  earth,  which,  continually  revolving,  produces  the  rising  and  setting  of  the 
constellations  and  planets." 


SAVITRI,  AGNI,  AND  PAEJANTA  ARE  CELEBRATED.  Ill 

The  first  of  the  preceding  verses  is  quoted  by  Taska  (Nir.  x.  32), 
and  illustrated  as  follows:  S'avita  yantraih  pritUvim  a/ramayat  \  anaram- 
hhane  'ntarihhe  Savitd  dyam  adrimhat  \  aivam  iva  adhukahad  dhunim 
antarihshe  megham  baddham  aturte  haddham  aturne  iti  va  'tvaramane 
iti  va  Savitd  samuditdram  iti  \  ham  cmyam  madhyamdd  evam  avakshyat  | 
Adityo  'pi  Sm>ita  vchyate.  "  Savitri  by  supports  has  caused  the  earth 
to  rest ;  Savitri  has  fixed  the  sky  in  the  place  which  has  no  basis Рђћ 
the  atmosphere.  Savitri  has  milked  the  cloud  fastened  in  the  atmo- 
sphere,Рђћ ^the  impassable,  or  the  unhastening Рђћ (the  cloud)  sounding  as 
a  horse,  and  that  which  rises.  "What  other  god  than  the  intermediate 
one  (i.e.  the  deity  residing  in  the  atmosphere)  would  he  have  thus 
described?  The  sun  also  (whose  place  is  in  the  sky)  is  called  Savitri." 

Prof.  Eoth  (lUust.  of  Mr.,  p.  143)  thus  translates  the  verse: 
"  Savitri  has  fixed  the  earth  with  supports,  he  has  fastened  the  heaven 
in  unsupported  space;  he  has  milked  the  atmosphere  shaking  itself 
like  a  horse,  the  stream  which  is  confined  within  limits  which  cannot 
be  overpassed."  In  his  Lexicon,  however,  Prof.  Eoth  gives  to  dhuni 
the  sense  of  "  sounding  "  (which  is  also  adopted  by  Prof.  M.  Miiller, 
Transl.  of  E.  V.  i.  95).  He  then  observes :  "  According  to  Taska  the 
Savitri  who  is  here  mentioned  must  be  the  intermediate  one,  on  account 
of  his  function  in  causing  rain." 

The  following  passages  refer  to  Agni : 

E.  V.  i.  59,  5. Рђћ Biva^  chit  te  Irihato  Jdtavedo  vaisvdnara  jpra  ririche 
mahitvam  \  rdj'd  krish{indm  asi  mdnushlndm  yudhd  devebhyo  varivaS 
chakartha  |  "  Jatavedas,  present  with  all  men,  thy  greatness  surpasses 
even  that  of  the  vast  sky.  Thou  art  the  king  of  human  creatures ; 
by  battle  thou  hast  obtained  freedom  for  the  gods"  (see  E.  V.  vii.  98, 
3,  above  p.  103). 

E.  V.  i.  67,  3. Рђћ Ajo  na  Icshafh  dddhdra  "'*  prithivlni  tasthambha  dydm 
mantrebhih  satyair  ityddi  \  "Like  the  moving  [sun,  or  the  unborn]  he 
upheld  the  broad  earth ;  he  supported  the  sky  with  true  texts,"  etc. 

The  next  verses  celebrate  the  greatness  of  Parjanya : 

E.  V.  vii.  101,  4. Рђћ Tasmin  viivdni  bJiuvandni  iasthus  tisro  dydvas 
tredhd  sasrur  dpah  ityddi  \  6.  Sa  retodhdh  vrishabhah  sasvatlndm 
tasminn  dtmd  jagatai  tastushahha  |  (Compare  E.  Y.  i.  115,  1.)     "He 

103*  Comp.  E.  V.  viii.  42,  10 :  Рђћ  Ta^  shcmihma  vi  rodasi  ajo  no,  dyam 
odMrayat  | 


112  TEXTS  CELEBRATING  THE  GREATNESS  OP  SOMA. 

in  wiom  all  the  worlds  abide,  and  the  three  heavens,  and  [by  whom] 
the  waters  flowed  in  three  directions,  etc.  6.  He  is  the  bull  that  im- 
pregnates all  [the  cows]  :  in  Mm  is  the  soul  of  the  moving  and  station- 
ary world"  (comp.  suryah  atma  jagatas  tastushai  cha,  K.  V.  i.  115,  1). 

The  next  passage  refers  to  the  god  called  Gandharva : 

B.  V.  X.  139,  5. Рђћ .  .  .  .  jDivyo  Oandharvo  rajaso  vimanah  \  "  The 
divine  Gandharva,  measurer  of  the  world,"  etc. 

The  last  set  of  passages  which  I  shall  adduce  celebrate  the  greatness 
of  Soma: 

E.  V.  ix.  61,  16  (=S.  V.  1,  484). Рђћ Pavamdno  ajijanad  divas  chitram 
na  tcmyatum  \  jyotir  vaUvdnaram  hrihat  \  "  The  purified  [Soma]  has 
generated  the  great  light  which  is  common  to  aU  mankind,  like  the 
wonderful  thundering  of  the  sky." 

E.  V.  ix.  86,  28. Рђћ Tmemdh  prajah  divyasya  retasas  tvam  vihasya 
hhuvanasya  rajasi  \  athedarh  viivam  pavamdna  te  vase  tvam  Indo  pra- 
thamo  dhamadhah  asi  \  29.  Tvam  samudro  aai  visva/oit  have  tavemah 
poMcha  pradUo  vidharmani  \  tvam  dyam  cha  prithivim  ehdti  jalhrishe 
tma  jyottmshi  pavamdna  suryah  \  30.  Tvam  pavitr'e  rajaso  vidharmani 
devebhyah  soma  pamamdna  puyase  \  tvam  Uiijah  prathamdh  agrihhnata 
tuihyemd  visvd  hhuvandni  yemire  \ 

"  All  these  creatures  spring  from  thy  divine  seed ;  thou  art  the  lord 
of  the  whole  universe.  All  this,  purified  god,  is  under  thy  control ; 
thou,  Indu,  art  the  first  sustainer  of  the  regions.  29.  Thou,  sage,  art 
an  all-containing  ocean ;  all  these  five  quarters  of  the  world  are  upheld 
by  thee.  Thou  hast  ascended  beyond  the  sky  and  the  earth ;  thine, 
0  purified  god,  are  the  luminaries  and  the  sun.  30.  In  the  filter 
which  is  the  support  of  the  world,  thou,  pure  Soma,  art  purified  for 
the  gods.  The  Usijes  first  gathered  thee.  To  thee  all  these  worlds 
have  bowed." 

E.  V.  ix.  89,  6. Рђћ  Vishtamlho  dko  dharunah  prithivydh  visvdh  uta 
hsMtayo  haste  asya  ityddi  \  "He  is  the  supporter  of  the  sky,  the 
upholder  of  the  earth  :  all  men  are  in  his  hand." 

E.  V.  ix.  96,  5,  which  has  been  quoted  above  (p.  94),  should  be 
again  referred  to  here. 

E.  Y.  ix.  97,  24. Рђћ Pavitr'ehhih  pavamdno  nrichahhdh  rdjd  devdndm 
uta  martydndm  ityddi  \  "  [Soma],  purified  by  filters,  the  beholder  of 
men,  is  the  king  of  gods  and  of  mortals,"  etc. 


PEOFESSOR  MUILEE'S  EEMAEKS  ON  THE  VE0IC  GODS.     113 

E.  V.  ix.  100,  8. Рђћ Pavamana mahiirava^ chitrebJdr yasirasmibhih^'^  \ 
swtdihan  tamdmsi  jighnase  vUvdni  daiusho  grihe  \  9.  Tvam  dydm  cha  mahi- 
vrata pnthwim  chdti j'alhrishe  ityadi  \  "Thou,  pure  [Soma],  marchest 
onward  to  great  renown,  by  thy  brilliant  rays ;  daring,  thou  wiliest  to 
destroy  all  darkness  in  the  house  of  thy  worshipper.  9.  Thou,  achiever 
of  great  deeds,  hast  ascended  above  heaven  and  earth,"  etc. 

R.  Y.  ix.  107,  7. Рђћ  .  .  .  Tvaffi  hamir  ahhavo  deva-vttamah  a  Buryafh 
rohayo  divi  \  "  Thou  art  a  sage  most  pleasing  to  the  gods ;  thou  hast 
caused  the  sun  to  rise  in  the  sky." 

E.  V.  ix.  109,  4  (=S.  V.  ii.  591). Рђћ Pavasva  soma  mahan  samudrah 
pita  devdnam  viivd  abhi  dhdma  \  "  Be  purified  in  all  abodes,  Soma, 
[who  art]  a  great  ocean,  the  father  of  the  gods,"  etc. 

The  preceding  texts  are  amply  sufficient  to  show  that  Vishnu  is  not 
the  only  god  to  whom  the  highest  divine  functions  are  ascribed  in  the 
Veda,  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  the  same  attributes  are  assigned,  and 
with  far  greater  frequency,  to  several  of  the  other  deities. 

The  following  passage  from  Professor  Miiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit 
Literature  (p.  532  f.)  shows  that  aU  the  principal  Vedic  deities  are,  in 
their  turn,  addressed  by  their  worshippers  as  supreme  : 

"  "When  0iese  individual  gods  are  invoked,  they  are  not  conceived  as 
limited  by  the  power  of  others  as  superior  or  inferior  in  rank.  Each 
god  is  to  the  mind  of  the  supplicants  as  good  as  all  the  gods.  He  is 
felt,  at  the  time,  as  a  real  divinity,  as  supreme  and  absolute,  in  spite  of 
the  necessary  limitations  which,  to  our  mind,  a  plurality  of  gods  must 
entail  on  every  single  god.  All  the  rest  disappear  for  a  moment  from 
the  vision  of  the  poet,  and  he  only  who  is  to  fulfil  their  desires  stands 
in  full  light  before  the  eyes  of  the  worshippers.  '  Among  you,  0  gods, 
there  is  none  that  is  small,  none  that  is  young:  you  are  all  great 
indeed,'  '"*  is  a  sentiment  which,  though,  perhaps,  not  so  distinctly 
expressed  as  by  Manu  Vaivasvata,  nevertheless,  underlies  all  the  poetry 
of  the  Veda.  Although  the  gods  are  sometimes  distinctly  invoked  as 
the  great  and  the  small,  the  young  and  the  old  (E.  V.  i.  27,  13),  this  is 
only  an  attempt  to  find  the  most  comprehensive  expression  for  the 
divine  powers,  and  nowhere  is  any  of  the  gods  represented  as  the  slave 

'"*  Compare  E.  V.  ix.  4,  1 :  Sana  cha  Soma  Jeski  cha  pavamana  mahi  irmah  \  and 
ix.  83,  5  :  Jayan  iravo  brihat  \ 

i┬╗5  E.  V.  Tiii.  30,  1,  quoted  by  Miiller,  p.  531. 

VOL.  IV.  8 


114      TEXTS  OF  THE  EIG  AND  ATHARVA  VEDAS 

of  others.  It  would  be  easy  to  find,  in  the  numerous  hymns  of  the 
Veda,  passages  in  which  almost  every  single  god  is  represented  as 
supreme  and  absolute.  In  the  first  hymn  of  the  Second  Mandala, 
Agni  is  called  the  ruler  of  the  uili verse,'""  the  lord  of  men,  the  wise 
king,  the  father,  the  brother,  the  son,  and  friend  of  men ; ""  nay,  all  the 
powers  and  names  of  the  others  are  distinctly  ascribed  to  Agni.  The 
hymn  belongs,  no  doubt,  to  the  modern  compositions;  yet,  though 
Agni  is  thus  highly  exalted  in  it,  nothing  is  said  to  disparage  the 
divine  character  of  the  other  gods.  Indra  is  celebrated  as  the  strongest 
god  in  the  hymns  as  well  as  in  the  Brahmanas,  and  the  burden  of  one 
of  the  songs  of  the  Tenth  Book  Рёб  is :  VUvasmad  Ind/ra  uttarah  |  '  Indra 
is  greater  than  all.'  Of  Soma  it  is  said  that  he  was  bom  great,  and 
that  he  conquers  every  one."'  He  is  called  the  king  of  the  world,?'"  he 
has  the  power  to  prolong  the  life  of  men,'"  and  in  ono  verse  he  is  called 
the  maker  of  heaven  and  earth,  of  Agni,  of  Surya,  of  Indra,  and  of 
Yishuu."'  If  we  read  the  next  hymn,  which  is  addressed  to  Varuna 
{aiipavSs),  we  psrceive  that  the  god  here  invoked  is,  to  the  mind  of 
the'  poet,  supreme  and  almighty.  Nevertheless,  he  is  one  of  the  gods 
who  is  almost  always  represented  in  fellowship  with  another,  Mitra;  and 
even  in  our  hymn  there  is  one  verse,  the  sixth,  in  which  Varuna  and 
Mitra  are  invoked  in  the  dual.  Tet  what  more  could  human  language 
achieve,  in  trying  to  express  the  idea  of  a  divine  and  supreme  power, 
than  what  our  poet  says  of  Varuna :  '  Thou  art  lord  of  aU,  of  heaven 
and  earth.'  Or,  as  is  said  in  another  hymn  (ii.  27,  10),  '  Thou  art  the 
king  of  all ;  of  those  who  are  gods,  and  of  those  who  are  men, ' "  etc. 

Sect.  III. Рђћ  Fishnu  as  one  of  the  Adityas. 
In  'the  hymns  of  the  Veda  the  Adityas,  or  sons  of  Aditi,  are  alluded 
to  as  being  seven  or  eight  in  number ;   but  only  six  deities,  of  whom 
Vishnu  is  not  one,  are  specified  by  name  as  belonging  to  this  class.'" 

""  "Tvam  visvani  svamha,  patyaae  \  ii.  1,  8. Рђћ See  Nirukta  Parifehta  i. 

'""  ii.  1,  9.  '"'  X.  86.  109  ij.  59^ 

"┬╗  ix.  96,  10  :  bhmanmya  raja.  "'  ix.  96,  14.  H'  ix.  96,  6. 

'"  See  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon  under  the  word  Aditya;  Prof.  Roth's  dis- 
sertation on  the  Adityas  in  his  paper  "  on  the  principal  gods  of  the  Arian  nations," 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  vi.,  pp.  68  ff. ;  and  the  Sth  vol.  of  this 
work,  pp.  54  ff.  Surya  (the  Sun)  is  however  called  AdiUya  in  R.  V.  i.  88,  11 
(Nir.  Tii.  29). 


AND  BEAHMANAS  RELATING  TO  THE  ADITTAS.  115. 

The  folio-wing  are  the  only  texts  which  I  consider  it  necessary  to  cite 
on  this  subject : 

E.  V.  ii.  27,  1  (Nir.  xii.  36). Рђћ Imcih  girah  AMt^febhyo  ghritasnuh 
sanadrajalhyojuhvdjuhomi  \  irinotu  Mitro  Aryama  Bhago  nas  tuvyata 
Varuno  Daksho  Amiah  \  "With  my  tongue  I  of  old  offer  up  these  praises, 
dropping  with  unctuousness,  to  the  kings,  the  Adityas :  may  Mitra, 
Aryaman,  Bhaga,  the  mighty  Varuna,  Daksha,  An^a,  hear  us."  Yaska  U 
makes  twijdtah  to  heРђћhahiifatas  cha  Bhata,  thus  understanding  it  to 
designate  Dhatri,  as  a  seventh  Aditya.. 

E.  V.  ix.  114,  3. Рђћ Sa^ta  diio  ndna-sy/ryah  sa/pta  hotarah  ritvijah  \ 
devdh  Adityah  ye  sapta  tebhih  Somabhirahsha  nah  \  "  The  seven  points 
of  the  compass,  with  their  respective  suns,  the  seven  hotri  priests,  and 
the  seven  gods,  the  Adityas, Рђћ with  these,  0  Soma,  protect  us." 

In  another  text  (E.  Y.  x.  72,  8,  9),  which  has  already  been  quoted 
in  p.  12f.,  it  is  said  that  Aditi  had  eight  sons,,  though  she  only  presented 
seven  of  them  to  the  gods,  and  cast  out  Martanda,  the  eighth. 

In  his  explanation  of  the  first  text,  which  I  have  now  quoted  (E.  V. 
ii.  27,  1),  Sayana  observes  of  the  Adityas:  Te  eha  Taittiriye  ' ashtau 
putraso  Aditer '  ity  wpdkramya  spashtmn  anuJcrdntah  |  '  Milraicha  Va- 
rumhha  Dhdtdoha  Aryamdcha  Amiuioha  Bhagaicha  Indraseha  Vivas- 
vdmk  cha  eie'  iti  \  "They  (the  Adityas)  are  distinctly  specified  in  the 
passage  of  the  Taittiriya,  beginning  with  the  words,  '  The  eight  sons 
of  Aditi,'  as  '  these,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Bhatri,  Aryaman,  An4u,  Bhaga, 
Indra,  and  Vivasvat.' " 

In  a  passage  of  the  Sktapatha  Brahmana  (iii.  1,  3,  3  ff.)  quoted  above 
(p.  14,  f.),  the  Adityas  are  aUuded  to  as  eight  in  number,  in  conformity 
with  the  text  of  the  E.  V.  x.  72,  8,  9.  In  other  texts  of  the  same 
Brahmana  mention  is  made  of  twelve  Adityas. 

Yishau,  as  is  remarked  by  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.,  is  men- 
tioned along  with  the  Adityas  [of  the  E.  Y.,  and  other  gods  with 
whom  they  were  afterwards  associated]  in  A.  Y.  xi.  6,  2  :  Brumo  raja- 
nam  Varumm  Mitram  Yishmm  afho  Bhagam  \  Amsam  Vivasvantam 
Irumas  te  no  munchantu  amhasah  |  3  |  Brumo  devam  Savitdram  Bhdtdram 
uta  Pushamm  |  Tvashfdram  agriyam  hrumah  \  "We  invoke  King  Yaruna 
Mitra,  Yishnu,  Bhaga,  Ansa,  Yivasvat.  May  they  free  us  from  calamity. 
3.  We  invoke  the  Gtod  Savitri,  Dhatri,  Pushan,  and  Tvashtri  the 
chief,"  etc. 


116  BRAHMANA  TEXTS  ABOUT  THE  ADITYAS. 

The  following  are  two  passages  of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  in  which 
mention  is  made  of  the  Adityas  as  being  twelye  in  number. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  2,  8. Рђћ Sa  manasd  eva  vaeham  mithunam 
samahhavat  sa  d/v&daka  d/rapsan  gmrbhy  abhavat  \  te  dvddaia  Adityah 
asrijyanta  tan  dikaku  upddadhdt  \  "With  his  mind  he  associated  con- 
jugally with  Speech.  He  became  pregnant  with  twelve  drops.  They 
were  created  the  twelve  Adityas.  Them  he  placed  in  the  quarters  of 
the  horizon." 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xi.  6,  3,  8  (=Brih.  Ar.  Up.  iii.  9,  5,  p,  646). 
Katame  Adityah  iti  \  dvddaia  mdsdh  samvatsarasya  ete  Addtydh Рђћ ete 
hi  idam  sarvam  ddaddnah  yanti  |  te  yad  idam  sarvam  ddadanah  yanti 
tasmdd  Adityah  iti  \  "  How  many  Adityas  are  there  ?  There  are 
twelve  months  of  the  year.  These  are  the  Adityas.  For  they  go  on 
taking  [ddaddnah)  all  this.  Since  they  go  on  taking  all  this,  they  are 
called  Adityas." 

The  Taittiriya  Brahmana,  iii.  9,  21,  1,  teUs  a  story  of  the  Adityas: 
Adityas  cha  Angirasai  cha  suvarye  lohe  'spardhanta  \  te  'ngirasah 
Adityelhyo  'mum  Adityam  aivam  kvetam  hhutam  dahsMndm  anayan  \  te 
'bruvan  "yam  no  'neshta  sa  varyo  'bhud"  iti  \  tasmdd  asvam  savarya  ity 
dhvayanti  \  tasmdd  ya^ne  vara  diyate  \  yat  Pra^dpati/r  dlabdho  'svo  'bhavat 
tasmdd  asvo  ndma  \  yat  svayad-wrur  dslt  tasmdd  a/rvd  ndma  \  yat  sadyo 
vdjdn  samajayat  tasmdd  vdji  ndma  \  yad  asurdndm  lokdn  adatta  tasmdd 
Adityo  ndma  \  "  The  Adityas  and  the  Angirases  strove  in  heaven.  The 
Angirases  brought  that  Aditya,  who  had  become  a  white  horse,  to  the 
Adityas  as  a  present.  The  latter  said,  '  He  whom  you  have  brought 
to  us  has  become  excellent  {varya).'  Hence  men  call  to  a  horse, 
0  sa/oa/rya.  Hence  a  boon  {va/rot)  is  given  at  a  sacrifice.  Inasmuch  as 
Prajapati  when  sacrificed  became  a  horse  {akva,  which  means  "  pervad- 
ing," according  to  the  commentator),  he  has  the  name  of  asva.  Inas- 
much as  he  suffered  pain  from,  swelling  (so  the  commentator  renders 
ivayad-a/ruh,  stating  that  Prajapati  suffered  from  a  swoUen  eye),  he  is 
called  arvan.  Inasmuch  as  he  conquered  riches  [or,  in  races]  {vdja),  he 
got  the  name  vdjin.  Inasmuch  as  he  took  {adatta)  from  the  Asuras 
their  worlds,  he  is  cdX\edi  Aditya." 

The  Taitt.  Aranyaka,  i.  14,  1,  also  derives  Aditya  from  the  root 
a-|-da :  Yo  'sau  tapann  udeti  sa  sarveshdm  bhutdndm  prdndn  dddya  udeti  I 
md  me  prajdydh  md  pakundm  ma  mama  prandn  addya  udagdh  I  asau  yo 


VAEIOUS  ETYMOLOGIES  OF  THE  "WOED  ADITTA.  117 

^stam  eti  m  sarvesJiam  hhiitamm  jprandn  adaya  astam  eti  |  md  me  prctfa- 
yah  md  pasundm  md  mama  prdndn  dddya  astam  yah  |  "  That  [Sun] 
which  rises  glowing,  rises  taking  the  hreath  of  all  creatures.  Do  not 
rise  [0  Sun},  taking  the  breath  of  my  offspring,  or  of  my  cattle,  or  of 
myself.  That  [Sun]  which  sets,  sets  taking  the  breath  of  all  creatures. 
Do  not  set  [0  Sun],  taking  the  breath  of  my  offspring,  or  of  my  cattle, 
or  of  myself." 

The  Mrukta,  ii.  13,  gives  various  etymologies  of  the  word  Aditya: 
Adityah  \  kasmdd  \  ddatte  rasdn  |  ddatte  hhdsam  jyoUahafh  \  ddtpto 
Ihdsd  iti  vd  f  Aditeh  putrah  iti  vd  \  aVpaprayoyam  tu  asya  etai  drcM- 
Ihydmnaye  |  sukta-bhdk  "  suryam  dditeyam "  Aditeh  putram  [  evam 
anydsdm  api  devatdndm  Adityapravdddh  stutayo  hhavanti  \  tad  yathd 
etad  I  Mitrasya  Varumsya  Aryamno  Dakshasya  Bhagasya  Aihsmya  iti  \ 

"  The  Aditya :  whence  [so  called]  ?  He  takes  up  the  fluids."*  He 
takes  up  the  light  of  the  luminaries ;  he  is  illuminated  (ddiptah)  by 
light ;  or,  he  is  the  son  of  Aditi.  But  this  [appellation]  is  seldom 
applied  to  him  ip  the  text  of  the  Eigveda.  Surya  Aditeya,  Surya  the 
son  of  Aditi,  is  mentioned  in  a  hymn.""  In  the  same  way  there  are 
praises  of  otber  deities,  addressed  to  them  as  Adityas ;  as  in  the  ease 
of  Mitra,  Varuna,  Aryaman,  Daksha,  Ehaga,  An^a." 

In  the  foUowing  texts  from  the  Mahabharata  and  Puranas,  the 
Adityas,  though  their  names  are  not  always  uniformly  given,  are  stated 
or  understood  to  be  twelve  in  number,  except  in  one  case  where  only 
eleven  are  specified.     Tishnu  is  almost  always  named  as  one  of  them, 

^'*  Sahasra-gunam  utsrashtum  adatte  hi  rasm  rmih  \  "  For  the  sun  takes  up  the 
fluids  [from  the]  eaith,  to  discharge  them  again  a  thousand-fold." Рђћ Eaghuvan^a, 
i.  18.  In  the  hymn  to  the  Sun,  Mahabh.  iii.  166  ff.,  it  is  similarly  said>  t.  179; 
Toam  aMyamsuhhis  tejo  nidaghe  sarva-dehinam  |  sarvaushadhi-rdsanam  cAa  punar 
varshSsu  mtmchasi  \  "  Having  in  the  hot  season  taken  up  by  the  rays  the  substance 
of  all  embodied  beings,  and  the  essence  of  all  plants,  thou  again  dischargest  them  in 
the  rainy  season."  And  Manu  says :  Ashtan  tmsan  yatha  "dityaa  toyam  harati 
raimibhih  \  iathS  haret  karam  raahtrad  nityam  arkmratam  hi  tat  |  "  As  Aditya  (the 
suA)  during  eight  months  draws  up  water  by  his  rays,  so  let  him  (a  king)  extract 
revenue  from  his  country,  for  that  is  his  continual  solar  function." Рђћ Manu,  ix.  305. 

"'  Dr.  Attfrecht  conjectures  that  the  word  sukta-bhak  should  be  read  asukta-hhak 
"  has  not  a  hymn  devoted  to  him ;"  as  he  appears  to  be  only  mentioned  in  one  verse, 
E.  V.  X.  88,  11  (Nir.  vii.  29).  Durga,  however,  as  quoted  by  Eoth  (Illust.  p.  21), 
says:  aukta-bhSg  eva  chaitad  abhidhanam  na  havirbhak  \  "This  appellation  has  a 
hymn  devoted  to  it,  but  no  oblation  is  ordained  [to  be  ofi'ered  to  the  god  under  this 
name]."     By  "  hymn"  Durga  may  only  mean  part  of  a  hymn. 


118  TEXTS  OP  THE  MAHABHAEATA  AND  VISHNU 

and  as  by  the  time  when  these  works  were  written,  his  dignity  had 
become  enhanced  in  gener-al  estimation,  he  is  declared  to  be  the 
greatest  of  the  twelve. 

Mahabharata,  i.  2,519,  2,S22  ff. Рђћ Martcheh  Easyapah  putrah 
Kaiyapat  tu  imdh  prajah  \  prajcynire  maMbhagah  Dahha-kanyas 
trayoda^a  |  .  .  .  .  2,522.  AdHySm  d/oadaiadityah  samhhutdh  bhu- 
vanesvardh  \  ye  rajan  ndmatas  tdms  te  hirtayishydmi  Bharata  |  Dhdtd 
Mitro  'ryamd  Sakro  Varmas  tv  Amsah  eva  eha  \  Bhago  Fwasvdn  Pushd 
oha  Savifd  da^amas  tathd  '\  ekadaSas  tathd  Tvashtd  dvddaSo  Vishmr 
vchyate  |  jaghanyajas  tv,  sarveshdm  Aditydndm  gunadhikah  ] 

"  Kasyapa  was  the  son  of  Marlchi^  and  from  Ka^yapa  these  beings 
were  born.  There  were  thirteen  eminent  daughters  of  Daksha  . . .  2,522. 
I  will  recount  to  thee,  by  name,  king  of  the  race  of  Bharata,  the  twelve 
Adityas,  lords  of  the  world,  who  were  produced  from  Aditi ; "'  Dhatri, 
Mitra,  Aryaman,  S'akra  (Indra),  Varuna,  AnSa,  Bhaga,  Yivasvat, 
Pushan,  and  Savity i  the  tenth ;  the'  eleventh  is  Tvashtri,  and  the 
twelfth  is  called  Vishnu,  who,  though  the  latest  bom,  surpasses  all 
the  Adityas  in  his  attributes." 

Mahabharata,   i.   2,598. Рђћ Mancheh  Kaiyapah  putrah  Kasyapasya 

Swrdsurdh  \  jajninre  nripa-idrdvila  lokdndm  prabhavas  tu  sah  \ 

2,600.  Dvddaiawdditeh  putrdh  S'akra-mukhgah  nwrddMpa  \  teshdm 
marajo  Vishmr  yatra  lokd.h  pratis'hthitdh  | 

"  Erom  Kasyapa,  who  was  the  son  of  Mariohi,  were  produced,  0  king, 
the  deities  (Suras)  and  the  Asuras ;  and  he  was  the  source  from  which 
all  beings  sprang.  .  .  .  2,600.  Aditi  had  twelve  sons,  beginning  with 
S'akra.  The  youngest  of  them  was  Vishgu,  on  whom  the  worlds  are 
supported." 

Mahabharata,  xiii.  7,092  f. Рђћ Aihio  Bhagakha  Mitrakha  Varunaseha 
j'aMvarah  ^  tathd  Dhdtd  'ryamd  chaiva  Jayanto  Bhdskaras  tathd  Рќа] 
Tvashtd  Pushd  tathdvendro  dvddaSo  Vishmur  uchyate  \  ity  ete  dvddaid- 
ditydh  Kaiyapeydh  iti  srutih  | 

"  An^a,  Bhaga,  Mitra,  Varirna,  lord'of  the  waters,  Dhatri,  Aryaman, 
Jayanta,  Bhaskara,  Tvashtri,  Pushan,  Indra,  and  Yishnu,  who  is  called 


"'  In  the  hymn  1:0  the  Bnn,  Mahahh.  iii.  166  ff.,  it  is  said  that  that  Luminary, 
dividing  himself  twelvefold,  became  the  twelve  Adityas  {kritvS  dvadaaadha  "tmmam 
4mdai5dityatam  gatahy 


PTJMNA  EEGARDING  THE  ADITTAS.  119 

the  twelfth :  these  are  the  twelve  Adityas,  the  sons  of  Ka^yapa,  ac- 
cording to  tradition  (or  the  Veda,  ^ruti)." 

Mahabharata,  v.  3,501  ff. Рђћ Ahhayai  chavyayas  ohaiva  Brahma  loha- 
pitdmahah  |  tathawa  hhagavantau  tau  Ncwa-Narayanav  riihi  \  Aditya- 
nam  hi  smrveshaih  Vishnur  ekah  sanafanah  \  afayyas  chavyayaS  chaiva 
Sdivatah  prahhw  isvarah  |  nimitta-marands  chdnye  chandra-surya-maM- 
jalam  \  Vdytir  Agnis  tathd  "kdsa'ih  grahds  tdrd-gands  tathd  |  te  cha 
kshaydnte  jagato  hitvd  lolcd-trayam  sadd  \  kshayam  gachhanti  vai  sarve 
srijyamte  cha  punah  punah  \  muhurta-marands  tv  anye  mdnmhdh  mriga- 
pakshinah  \  "Brahma,  the  parent  of  the  world,  is  undecaying  and 
imperishable;  and  so  too  are  the  venerable  Rishis,  Nara,  and  l^arayana. 
Vishnu  alone  of  all  the  Adityas  is  eternal,  invincible,  imperishable, 
everlasting,  potent,  the  lord.  Oth6r  beings  perish  on  some  occasion, 
[as  at  the  end  of  a  Kalpa], Рђћ '"  the  moon,  the  sun,  the  earth,  water,"' 
air,  fire,  the  ether,  the  planets,  and  the  stars.  At  the  dissolution  of 
the  universe,  all  these  invariably  abandon  the  three  worlds,  and  perish, 
and  are  created  again  and  again.  Other  [creatures],  men,  beasts,  and 
birds,  die  after  a  brief  interval  {muhurtay 

Vishnu  Purana,  1,  15,  90  ┬Бf.  (vol.  ii.  pp.  26  f.  of  Dr.  Hall's 
edition  of  Wilson's  translation) Рђћ Purvamanvanta/re  Sreshthdh  dvddaidsan 
suroitamdh  \  Tmhitdh  ndma  te  ^nyonyam  uehur  Vaivasvate  'ntare  \ 
vpasthite  'Uyasasai  Chdishushasydntare  Mdnoh  \  eamavdyikritdh  sarve 
samdgamya  pmrasparam  \  Agaehhata  drutam  devdh  Aditim  sampravisya 
vai  I  Manvantare  prasuydmas  tan  nah  kreyo  hhaved  iti  \  evam  uktvd  tu  te 
sarve  Chdkshushasyanta^e  Manoh  \  Mdrichdt  Kaiyapdj  jdtds  te  ^ditya 
Baksha-kamyayd  \  tatra  Yishnuicha  S'akraseha  jcy'ndte  punar  eva  hi  \ 
Aryama  ohaiva  Dhdtdeha  Hhashta  Pushd  tathaiva  cha  \  Vivasvan  Savitd 
chaiva  Mitro  Va/runah  eva  cha  \  AHiio  Bhagai  chdtitejdh  Adityah  dvddaia 
smritah  \  Chdkshushasydntare  purvam  dsan  ye  Tmhitdh  smritdh  \  Vai- 
vasvate 'ntare  te  vai  Aditydh  dvddaia  smritdh  | 

"In  the  former  Manvantara  there  were  twelve  eminent  and  re- 

^''  I  suppose  nimitta-maranah  is  to  be  imderstood  practically  in  tliis  sense. Рђћ See 
Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  i.  113 ;  v.  186,  and  note.  Narayana,  in  his 
commentary  on  the  Mahabharata,  explains  the  phrase  thus :  Nimittam  pralayadi- 
nimittam  maranam  naio  yesham  te  nimitta-maranah  | 

118  Water  and  ether  are  said  in  the  Eamayana  to  have  preceded  Brahma. Рђћ See 
above,  p.  33.  See  also  the  order  of  creation  described  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
and  in  Mann,  in  section  ii.,  chapter  i.,  above. 


120  TEXTS  OF  THE  HARIVAMS'A  AND  BHAGAVATA 

nowned  deities  called  Tushitas;  who,  being  assembled  together,  said  to 
each  other  in  the  Chakshusha  Manvantara,  when  the  Vaivasvata  Man- 
vantara  was  approaching,  'Come  quickly,  deities,  let  us  enter  into 
Aditi,  and  be  bom  in  the  [next]  Manvantara:  this  will  be  for  our 
welfare.'  Having  thus  spoken  in  the  Chakshusha  Manvantara,  they 
were  all  born  from  Ka^yapa,  son  of  Mariohi,  and  Aditi,  daughter  of 
Daksha.  In  this  way  Vishnu  and  S'akra  (Indra)  were  again  bom, 
and  Aryaman,  Dhatri,  Tvashtri,  Pushan,  Vivasvat,  Savitri,  Mitra, 
Varuna,  Ansa,  and  the  energetic  Bhaga:  these  are  known  as  the 
twelve  Adityas.  Those  who  formerly  in  the  Chakshusha  Manvantara 
were  called  the  Tushitas,  are  known  as  the  twelve  Adityas  in  the 
Vaivasvata  Manvantara." 

The  same  story  is  repeated  in  Tery  nearly  the  same  words  in  the 
Harivania,  verses  171  ff. 

The  following  is  another  passage  from  the  Harivansa,  verses  ll,548ff.: 
Adityam  jajnire  raj'ann  Adityah  Kasyapad  atha  \  Indro  Vishnur  Bhagas 
Tcashta  Varum  'mso  'ryamS,  Ravih  \  Fusha  Mitrascha  varado  Manuh 
Pmrjanyah  eva  cha  \  ity  ete  dvdda^adityah  varishthds  tridivauJiasah  \ 
"From  Easyapa  and  Aditi  were  bom  the  Adityas,  Indra,  Vishnu, 
Bhaga,  Tvashtri,  Varuna,  An^a,  Aryaman,  Havi  (the  Sun),  Pushan, 
Mitra,  the  bestower  of  boons,  Manu,  and  Parjanya, Рђћ these  are  the 
twelve  Adityas,  most  eminent  celestials." 

In  the  same  work,  verses  12,456  f.,  we  read:  Aryamd  Varuno 
Miirah  Fusha  Bhdta  Furandwrah  \  Tvashta  Bhago  'miah  Savitd  Far- 
janyahheti  visrutah  \  Adityam  jajnire  devah  Kaiyapal  loka-hhavanah  \ 
"The  gods,  creators  of  the  worlds,  known  as  Aryaman,  Varuna, 
Mitra,  Pushan,  Dhatri,  Purandara  (Indra),  Tvashtri,  Bhaga,  Ansa, 
Savitri,  and  Parjanya,  were  sprung  from  Kasyapa  and  Aditi." 

Only  eleven  names  occur  in  this  list :  that  of  Vishnu  is  omitted. 

The  next  is  another  legend  on  the  same  subject  from  the  same  work. 
Here  quite  a  different  origin  is  assigned  to  the  Adityas,  who  are  said 
to  have  sprung  from  the  face  of  Vivasvat  or  Martanda,  the  Sun. 

Harivanda,  589  ff. Рђћ Tato  nirhhasitam  rupam  tej'asd  samhatena  vai  \ 
Icdntat  Icdntataram  drashtum  adhikam  Suiuhhe  tadd  \  muTche  nirvartitam 
rupam  tasya  devasya  gopateh  \  tatah-prahhriti  devasya  mukham  dsit  tu 
lohitam,  \  mukha-rdgantu  yat  purvam  Mdrtandasya  mukha-chyutam  I 
Adityah  dvddaiaiveha  sambhutdh  mukha-sambhavdh  \  Dkdtd  'ryamd  cha 


PURANA  REGARDING  THE  ADITTAS.  121 

Mitrascha  Varum  '&So  Bhagas  tathd  \  Indro  Vwasvdn  PusM  cha 
Pmrjanyo  dasamas  tatha  |  tatas  Toashta  tato  Vishnwr  ajaghcmyo  jaghan- 
yajah  \  harsham  lehhe  tato  devo  drishtvd  "ditydn  sva-deha-jan  \  "Then 
his  appearance,  illuminated  with  concentrated  lustre,  shone  forth  more 
brilliantly,  fairer  than  the  fairest  to  behold.  This  appearance  was 
produced  in  the  face  of  that  god,  the  lord  of  rays.  Henceforward 
the  face  of  the  god  was  red.  Erom  the  previous  colour  of  the  face 
which  fell  from  the  countenance  of  Martanda  were  produced  twelve, 
face-born  Adityas:  Dhatri,  Aryaman,  Mitra,  Varuna,  Ansa,  Bhaga, 
Indra,  Vivasvat,  Pushan,  Parjanya  the  tenth,  then  Tvashtri,  then 
Yishnu  not  the  least,  though  the  last  born.  The  god  then  rejoiced, 
beholding  the  Adityas,  sprung  from  his  own  body." 

This  story  is  not  only  in  opposition  to  the  ordinary  account  of  the 
Adityas  being  sons  of  Aditi,  but  it  contradicts  itself.  Vivasvat  is  one 
of  the  Adityas,  who  is  produced  from  Vivasvat;  and  Tvashtri  was 
already  existing,  and  playing  a  part  in  the  former  part  of  the  legend. 
(See  Langlois's  note  7,  p.  50  of  his  French  version  of  the  Harivan^a.) 
The  Vishnu  Purana  teUs  the  same  story  about  Vivasvat,  but  says 
nothing  of  the  birth  of  the  Adityas.  (See  Wilson's  translation.  Dr. 
HaU's  ed.,  iii.  20  f.) 

Bhagavata  Purana,  vi.  6,  24  f. Рђћ S'rinu  ndmdni  lokdndm  mdtrindm 
samhardni  cha  \  aiha  Ka^yapa-patnlndm  yat-prasutam  idam  jagat  \ 
Aditir  Bitir  ityddi  |  ....  36  f.  Athdtah  ^ruyatdm  vafhh  yo  'diter 
anupurva^ah  |  yatra  Ndrdyano  devo  svdmsendvdtarad  vihhuh  |  Vivasvdn 
Aryamd  Pushd  Tvashtd  'iha  Savitd  Bhagah  \  Dhdtd  Vidhdtd  Varuno 
Mitrah  S'ahrah  Urukramah  | 

"  Hear  now  the  auspicious  names  of  the  wives  of  Kasyapa,  the 
mothers  of  the  worlds,  from  whom  this  universe  was  produced ;  Aditi, 
Diti,  etc.  .  .  .  36  f.  Hear  now,  in  order,  the  race  of  Aditi,  in  which 
the  all-pervading  god,  Ifarayana,  descended  in  a  part  of  himself, Рђћ 
Vivasvat,  Aryaman,  Pushan,  Tvashtri,  Savitri,  Bhaga,  Dhatri,  Vidha- 
tri,  Varuna,  Mitra,  S'akra,  TJrukrama  (the  wide-strider=Vishnu)." 

Sect.  IV. Рђћ Stories  regarding  Vishnu  from,  the  S'atapatha  Brdhmana, 
the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  the  Panchavimia  Brdhmana,  the  Rdmdyana, 
the  Mahdhhdrata,  and  the  Purdnas. 

The  following  story  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (in  which 
Vishnu  is  represented  as  a  dwarf,  and  as  having,  under  the  form  of 


122  HOW  THE  GODS  HEADED  BY  THE  DWARF 

sacrifice,  conquered  the  whole  earth),  with  others  of  the  same  tenor, 
contains  the  germ  of  the  story  of  the  Dwarf  Incarnation : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  2,  5,  1  ff. Рђћ Bevakha  vai  Aswrdicha  ubhaye 
prajapatyah  paspridMre  \tato  devdh  am/my  am  iva  asuh  \  atha  ha  Asurdh 
menire  '  asmakam  eva  idam  khalu  lihmanam^  iti  \  2.  Te  ha  uehur 
'  hanta  imam  prithimm  vibhajdmahai  tdm  vibhajya  wpajivama '  iti  \  tdm 
aukshnaiLeharmabhih  paiohat  prdmhovihhcy'amdndh  abhiyuh  \  3.  Tad  vai 
devdh  susruvur  "  vibhqfanie  ha  vai  imam  Aiwrdh  prithivim  preta  tad 
eshydmo  yatra  imam  Asurdh  vibhajante  I  ke  tatah  syama  yad  asyai  na 
bhc^'emahi"  iti  j  teyynameva  Vishnum  purasJcrityaiyuh  \  4.  Tehauchuh 
"anu  no  ' sydm  prithvoydm  dbh(y'ata  astv  eva  no  ^pyasydm  Ihdgah,"  iti  \  te 
'surah  asuyantah  iva  uchtir  'ydvad  eva  esha  Vishnur  abhihte  tdvad  vo  dad- 
mah'  iti  |  5.  Vdmano  ha  Vishnur  dsa  \  tad  devdh  najihldire  "  mahad  vai 
no  'dw  ye  no  yajna-sammitam  adur "  iti  \  6.  Te  prdneham  Vishnu0i 
nipddya  chhandobhir  alhitah  pwryagrighnan  " gdyatrena  tvd  chhandasd 
parigrihnami"  iti  dahshinatas  \  "  traishtubhena  iva  chhandasd  parigrih- 
ndmi"  itipaichdt  \  "jdgatenatvd  chhandasd parigrihndmi"  itiuttaratah  \ 
7.  Tarn  chhandobhir  dbhitah  pa/rigrihya  agnim  purastdt  samddMya  tena 
archantah  irdmyantai  eheruh  \  tena  imdm  sa/rvdrnprithivifh  samavindanta  | 
tad  yad  enena  imdm  sarvdm  samavindanta  tasmdd  vedir  noma  |  tasmad 
dhwr  '  ydvati  vedis  tdvatl  prithivl '  iti  \  etayd  hi  imdm  sarvdm  samavin- 
danta I  evam  ha  vai  imdm  sarvdm  sapatndndm  samvrinhte  nirhhcy'aty 
asyai  sapatndn  yah  evam  etad  veda  \  8.  So  'yam  Vishnur  gldnai  chhan- 
dobhir itah  pa/rigrihito  'gnih  purastdd  na  apakramanam  dsa  \  sa  tatah 
eva  oshadhindm  muldny  vpa  mumlocha  \  9.  Te  ha  devdh  uchuh  "  iva  nu 
Vishnwr  abhut  hoa  nu  ycy'no  'bhud"  iti  \  te  ha  uehus  "  chhandobhir  itah 
parigrihito  'gnih  purastdd  na  apakramanam  asty  atra  eva  anviehhata  "  iti 
tarn  khanantah  iva  anvlshus  tarn  tryangule  'nvavindams  tasmdt  tryanguld 
vedih  sydt  \  tad  u  ha  apt  Pdnehis  tryanguldm  eva  saumyasya  adhvarasya 
vedifh  chakre  \   10.  Tad  u  tathd  na  kurydd  ityddi  \ 

"The  gods  andAsuras,  who  were  both  sprung  from  Prajapati,  strove 
together.  Then  the  gods  were,  as  it  were,  worsted,  and  the  Asuras 
thought,  '  This  world  is  now  certainly  ours.'  2.  Then  they  spake, 
'  Come,  let  us  divide  this  earth,  and  having  divided  it,  let  us  subsist 
thereon.'  They  accordingly  went  on  dividing  it  with  ox-hides  from 
west  to  east.  3.  The  gods  heard  of  it,  [and]  said,  '  The  Asuras  are 
dividing  this  earth;  come,  we  shall  go  to  the  spot  where  they  are 


VISHNU  GAINED  THE  WHOLE  EARTH  EEOM  THE  ASURAS.    123 

dividing  it.  Who  shall  we  become  {i.e.  what  shall  become  of  us),  if 
we  do  not  share  in  it  ? '  Placing  at  their  head  Vishnu,  the  sacrifice, 
they  proceeded  [thither],  4.  and  said,  'Put  us  with  yourselves  in 
possession  of  this  earth;  let  us  also  have  a  share  in  it.'  The  Asuras, 
grudging  as  it  were,  answered,  '  "We  give  you  as  much  as  this  Yishnu 
can  lie  upon.'  Рёб  5.  Now,  Vishnu  was  a  dwarf.  The  gods  did  not 
reject  that  offer;  [but  said' among  themselves],  'They  have  given  us 
much,  [these  Asuras],  who  have  given  us  what  is  co-extensive  with 
sacrifice.'  6.  Then  having  placed  Vishnu  to  the  east,  they,  surrounded 
him  with  metres;  [saying],  on.  the  south  side,  'I  surround  thee  with 
the  Gayatrl  metre ; '  on  the  west,  '  I  surround  thee  with  the  Trishtubh 
metre ; '  on  the  north,  '  I  surround  thee  with  the  Jagati  metre.'  7. 
Having  thus  surrounded  him  with  metres,  they  placed  Agni  (fire)  on  the 
east,  and  thus  they  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling.  By  this  means 
they  acquired  the  whole  of  this  earth ;  and  since  by  this  means  they 
acquired  (samavindanta)  it  all,  therefore  [the  place  of  sacrifice]  is  called 
vedi  (from  the  root  vid,  '  to  acquire').  Hence  men  say,  '  as  great  as  is 
the  altar,  so  great  is  the  earth ;'  for  by  it  (the  altar)  they  acquired  the 
whole  of  this  [earth].  Thus  he  who  so  understands  this,  appropriates 
all  this  [earth]  from  rivals,  dispossesses  from  it  rivals.  8.  Then  this 
Vishnu,  being  wearied,  surrounded  by  metres,  with  Agni  to  the  east, 
did  not  advance ;  but  then  hid  himself  among  the  roots  of  plants.  9. 
The  gods  then  exclaimed,  '  What  has  become  of  Vishnu  ?  what  has  be- 
come of  the  sacrifice  ? '  They  said,  '  Surrounded  by  metres,  with  Agni 
to  the  east,  he  does  not  advance ;  search  for  him  here.'  So  digging,.as 
it  were,  they  searched  for,  and  found  him  at  a  depth  of  three  fingers ; 
therefore  let  the  altar  [have  a  trench]  three  fingers  deep ;  tiierefore, 
also,  Panchi  ^'^  made  an  altar  of  this  description  for  the  soma  sacrifice. 
10.  But  let  no  one  do  so,"  etc. 

The  next  story  from  the  same  work  relates  how  Vishnu  became 
pre-eminent  among  the  gods,  and  how  he  lost  his  head.  Here  also  he 
is  identified  with  sacrifice : 

'''  Compare  with  this  story  the  similar  one  qaoted  above  ia  the  note  on  R.  V. 
.vi.  69,  8  (p.  84  f.)  from  the  Aitareya  Brahmana,  6,  15. 

120  I>ancMh  soma^agasyapi  vedim  tryangula-lchatam  eva  mene  \  "  Panchi  thought 
that  the  altar  for  the  soma  sacrifice  also  should  have  a  trench  three  fingers  deep." 
(Commentary.)  Panchi  is  again  mentioned  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ii.  1,  4,  27 
(p.  143),  along  with  Asuri  and  Madhuki,  where  the  commentator  speaks  of  them  as 
three  munis  (Asuri-prabhritayas  trayo  munayay .   See  Weber's  Ind.  Stud,  i,  192, 434. 


124  STORY  ABOUT  VISHNU  BECOMING  THE  MOST 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  1,  1,  1  S. Рђћ Devdh  ha  vai  satram  nishedur 
Agnw  Ind/rah  Somo  Mahho  Vishnur  visve-devdh  anyatra  eva  Aivibhydm  \ 
2.  Tesham  Kwrukahetram  devayajanam  dsa  \  tasmdd  dhuh  "  Kuru- 
Tcshetram  devdndih  devayajanam"  iti  \  tasmdd  yatra  kva  cha  Kv/ruksJie- 
trasya  nigaejihati  tad  eva  manyate  "  idam  devayajanam  "  iti  tad  hi  devd- 
ndfn  devayajanam  \  3.  Te  dsata  \  "  iriyam  gachhema  yasah  sydma 
anndddh  sydma"  iti  tatho  evaime  satram  d'sate  "iriyam  gachhema  yaiah 
sydma  annddah  sydma"  iti  |  4.  Te  ha  uchur  "yo  nah  iramena  tapasd 
iraddhayd  yajnena  dhutihhir  ycjnasya  vdricham  purvo  'vagachhdt  sa  nah 
ireshtho  'sat  tad  u  nah  sarveshdm  saha"  iti  "tathd"  iti  \  5.  Tad 
Vishnuh  prathamah  prdpa  \  sa  devandm  ireshtho  'hhavat  tasmdd  dhur 
"  Vishnw  devdndih,  sreshthah"  iti  \  6.  Sa  yah  sa  Vishmr  yajnah  sa  \ 
sa  yah  sa  yajno  'sau  sa  Adityah  |  tad  ha  idam  yaio  Vishnur  na  sasdka 
samyantum  \  tad  idam  apy  eta/rhi  na  eva  sarvah  iva  yaiah  saknoti 
samyantum  \  7.  Sa  tisri-dhanvam^''^  dddya  apachakrdma  |  sa  dhanw- 
drtnyd  Mrah  upastabhya  tasthau  \  tarn  devdh  anabhidhrishnuvantah 
samantam  parinyaviianta  \  8.  Tdh  ha  vamryah  uchuh  \  imdh  vai 
vamryo  yad  upadlkdh  \  "yo  'syajydm  apyadydt  Mm  asmai prayachheta" 
iti  "annddyam  asmai  prayachhema  api  dhanvann  apo  ^ dfdgaohhet  tathd 
asmai  sarvam  annddyam  prayachhema"  iti  \  9.  Tasya  itpapardsritya 
jydm  apyakshus  tasydm  chhinndydm  dhanur-drtnyau  vishphwrantyau 
Vishnoh  sir  ah  prachichhidatuh  \  10.  Tad  ghrinn  iti  papdta  \  tat 
patitvd  'sdv  Adityo  'bhavat  \  atha  itarah  prdn  eva  prdvrijyata  \  tad 
yad  ghrinn  ity  apatat  tasmdd  gharmah  \  atha  yat  prdvrijyata  tasmdd 
pravargyah  \  11.  Te  devdh  abruvan  \  "mahdnvata  no  vira'pddi"  iti 
tasmdd  mahdvlrah  \  tasya  yo  raso  vyaksharat  tam  pdnibhih  sammamrijus 
tasmdt  samrdt  \  12.  Tam  devdh  dbhyasrijyanta  ^'"^  yathd  vittint  vetsya- 
mdndh  evam  \  tam  Ind/rah  prathamah  prdpa  \  tam  anvangam  ammyapad- 
yata  |  tam  paryagrihndt  tam  parigrihya  idam  yaio  'bhavad  yad  idam 
Indro  yaiah  \  yaio  ha  bhavati  ya  evam  veda  \  15.  Sa  u  eva  makhah  sa 
Vishnuh  \  tatah  Indro  makhavdn  abhavad  \  makhavdn  ha  vai  tam 
Maghavdn  ity  dchakshate  paroksham  paroksha-kdmdh  hi  devdh  |     14. 

"'  This  word  occurs  also  in  S'atap.  Br.  xi.  1,  5,  10 ;  in  Taitt.  S.  i.  8,  19,  1,  and 
Taitt.  Br.  ii.  7, 9, 2,  in  all  wliicli  places  it  is  explained  by  the  Oomm.  tisribhir  ishubhir 
yuMam  (or  sahitcm)  dhanva  (or  dhanu^). 

^''  This,  according  to  Bbhtlingk  and  Both,  is  the  correct  reading,  in  place  of 
abhimrijyemta,  given  in  Weber's  edition.  See  a  parallel  passage,  S'atap,  Br.  iy. 
1,  3,  6. 


EMINENT  OF  THE  GODS  AND  LOSING  HIS  HEAD.  125 

Tabhyo  vamrlhhyo  ^nnadyam  prdyaclihan,  \  apo  vai  sa/rvam  annam  tabhir 
hi  idam  ahMhnuyam  iva  adanti  \  yad  idam  kimvadanti  \  15.  Atha 
imam  Vishnum  ycy'nam  tredhha  vyabhyamta  |  .  .  .  .  tena  apailrshna 
yqjnena  devd  archantah  irSmyantai  cheruh  | 

"  The  gods,  Agni,  Indra,  Soma,  Vishnu,  Makha,  and  all  the  [other] 
deities,  excepting  the  Asvins,  were  present  at  a  sacrifice.  2.  Knru- 
kshetra  was  the  place  of  their  divine  worship.  Hence,  men  say  that 
Kurukshetra  is  the  country  where  the  gods  sacrifice.  Consequently,  to 
whatever  part  of  Kurukshetra  a  man  goes,  he  looks  upon  it  as  a  place 
for  divine  worship,  since  it  was  the  spot  where  the  gods  worshipped. 
3.  They  were  [there.  They  said],  '  May  we  attain  prosperity,  become 
famous,  and  eat  food.'  And  in  the  very  same  way  these  [men]  attend 
a  sacrifice  [saying],  'May  we  attain  prosperity,  become  famous,  and 
eat  food.'  4.  Then  [the  gods]  said,  'Whoever  among  us,  through 
toil,  austerity,  faith,  sacrifice,  and  oblations,  first  comprehends  the 
issue  of  the  sacrifice,  let  him  be  the  most  eminent  of  us :  this  [shall  be] 
common  to  us  all.'  [To  this  they  consented,  saying],  '  Be  it  so.'  5. 
Vishnu  first  attained  that  [proposed  object].  He  became  the  most 
eminent  of  the  gods :  wherefore  men  say,  '  Vishnu  is  the  most  eminent 
of  the  gods.'  6.  He  who  is  this  Vishnu  is  sacrifice ;  he  who  [is]  this 
sacrifice  is  the  Aditya.  Vishnu  could  not  control  [his  love  of]  this  fame.''' 
And  the  same  is  the  case  now,  that  every  one  cannot  control  [his  love  of] 
fame.  7.  Taking  his  bow  and  three  arrows,  he  departed.  He  stood, 
resting  his  head  on  the  end  of  his  [bended]  bow.  Being  unable  to  over- 
come him,  the  gods  sat  down  all  around  him.  8.  Then  the  ants  said  to 
them  (now  the  ants  were  the  same  as  wpadikas Рђћ another  name  for  ants), 
'What  wiU  you  give  to  him  who  gnaws  the  bowstring?'  [The  gods  re- 
plied], '  We  will  give  him  the  enjoyment  of  food,  and  he  shall  find  waters 
even  in  the  desert;  so  shall  we  give  him  every  enjoyment  of  food.'  9. 
[The  ants,  then],  approaching,  gnawed  his  bowstring.  When  that  was 
cut,  the  ends  of  the  bow,  starting  asunder,  cut  off  the  head  of  Vishnu. 
10.  It  fell,  making  a  sound  {ghrin).  That  having  fallen,  became  that 
Aditya.  Then  the  rest  of  him  became  extended  towards  the  east. 
Since  the  head  fell  with  the  sound  of  ghrin,  hence  gharma,  ['  the 

Рќа23  It  seems  as  if  there  were  a  play  of  words  here,  the  word  yaiah,  "  fame,"  having 
reference  to  the  words  m  yah  sa  Vishnuh,  etc.,  sa  yah  sa  yajnah,  etc.  "  He  who  [is] 
this  Vishnu,"  etc.    "  He  wlto  [is]  this  sacrifice,"  etc. 


126    STORY  PEOM  THE  TAITTIEIYA  ARANTAKA  TELLING  THAT 

sacrificial  kettle,'  received  its  name]  ;  and  since  lie  became  extended, 
{pravrijyata),  \h.e  pravargya  [received  its  appellation].  11.  The  gods 
then  said,  '  A  great  hero  {mahan  virah)  of  ours  has  fallen.'  Hence 
arose  the  name  of  mah&vlra  (a  sacrificial  vessel).''^  They  wiped 
{sammamryuh)  with  their  hands  the  fluid  (blood)  which  flowed  from 
him.  Hence  arose  the  name  of  sarmraf.  12.  The  gods  rushed  towards 
him  (Vishnu),  as  men  about  to  obtain  property  do.  Indra  first  reached 
him.  He  came  into  contact  with  him  limb  by  limb.  He  embraced 
him.  Having  embraced  him,  he  became  this  fame,  which  Indra  is. 
He  who  so  knows  this  becomes  fame.  13.  That  Vishnu  was  indeed 
Makha."^  Hence  Indra  became  Makhavat  (the  possessor  or  associate 
of  Makha).  He  is  Makhavat :  they  call  him  Maghavat  esotericaUy ; 
for  the  gods  love  what  is  esoteric.  14.  They  (the  gods)  gave  food  to 
those  ants.  All  food  is  water  ;  for  with  water  men,  as  it  were,  moisten 
the  food  which  they  eat :  as  the  common  saying  is.     15.  Then  they 

divided  into  three  portions  this  Vishnu,  the  sacrifice With 

that  headless  sacrifice  (see  above),  the  gods  went  on  worshipping  and 
toiling." 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  "Weber  for  the  next  two  passages ;  the 
first  from  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,''^  and  the  second  from  the  Panoha- 


'^  A  long  account  is  given  of  the  gharma,  prmiargya,  and  mahimra  in  Katyayana's 
S'ranta  Sutras,  xxvi. 

125  In  regard  to  this  word  I  quote  the  explanation  of  Bbhtlingk  and  Roth,  s.  ┬╗.  2  c : 
"  This  is  the  name  of  a  malign  mythical  heing,  as  is  to  he  conjectured  from  the  fol- 
lowing passages,  E.  V.  x.  171,  2 :  tvam  Mahhmya  dodhatah  s'iro  ava  tvacho  bharah\ 
('Thou  hast  smitten  off  the  head,  the  skin,  of  the  furious  Makha') ;  ix.  101,  13,  apa 
dvanam  aradhasam  hata  Makham  va  Bhrigmah  \  ('  Drive  away  the  niggardly  dog, 
as  the  Bhrigus  did  Makha').  Herewith  is  to  be  connected  the  mention  made  of 
Makha's  head  in  sacrificial  formulse,  Vaj.  Sanhita,  37,  3  :  devi  dyam-prithivl  Mahh- 
mya vam  adya  siro  radhyasafU  devayajane  prithivyah  |  ....  4,  Devyo  vamryo 
hhutasya  prathamajah  makhasya  vo  'dya  a'iro  radhyasam  deoayajane  prithivyah  | 
('  0  divine  heaven  and  earth,  may  I  rightly  prepare  for  you  to-day  the  head  of 
Makha,  on  the  part  of  the  earth  where  the  gods  sacrificed.  ...  4.  0  divine  ants, 
firstborn  of  created  things,  may  I  rightly  prepare  for  you  the  head  of  Makha  on  the 
part  of  the  earth  where  the  gods  sacrificed') ;  ibid.  11,  67  ;  Taitt,  S.  i.  1,  8,  1 ;  iii. 
2,  4,  1,  namo  'gnaye  Malchaghne  |  MahJiasya  ma  yaso  'ryad  ity  ahavanlyam  tipatish- 
thate  I  yajno  vai  mahhah  ('  Adoration  to  Agni,  the  slayer  of  Makha.  May  the  fame 
of  Makha  come  to  me.  So  (saying),  he  stands  by  the  ahavaniya-fire.  Makha  is 
sacrifice'),"  etc. 

'''┬╗  This  part  of  the  Taitt.  Ar.  has  now  been  printed  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indioa,  pp. 
S90  ff.    The  commentary  on  it  nill  be  found  in  pp.  371  ff. 


VISHNU  MONOPOLIZED  GLOUT  AND  LOST  HIS  HEAD.       127 

vim^a  Brahmana,  -wliich  both  relate  the  same  story  which  has  just 
been,  given  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana. 

Taittirlya  Aranyaka,  v.  i.  1-7. Рђћ 1.  Devdh  vai  satram  asata  riddki- 
parimitam  yaiaskamah  \  te  'iruvan  "  yan  nah  prathamam  yaiah  riohhat 
sarvesJidm nas  tat  sahaasad"  iti\  tesMm  ittruksJtetram  vedir  asit  \  tasyai 
Khandavo  dakshinardhah  asit  Turghnam  uttardrdhah  Pafinaj jaghandrdho 
Maravah  utTcarah  \  2.  Teshdm  Makham  Vaishnavath  yasah  archhat  \  tad 
nyakdmayata  \  tena  a/pakramat  \  tarn  devdh  anvdyan  yaio  'vamrutsa- 
mdndh  I  tasya  anvdgatasya  savydd  dhanur  ajdyata  daksMndd  Mavah  | 
tasmdd  ishudhanvam  punyorjanma  yajna-Janma  hi  \  3.  Tam  ekwm  santam 
hahavo  na  abhyadhriShnuvan  \  tasmdd  ekam  ishudhamvam  Рёб  vlram  hahmo 
' nishudhanodh  na  alhidhrishnuvanti  \  so  'smayata  "  ekam  md  santam 
lahavo  na  ahhyadharshuhur  "  iti  \  tasya  sishmiydnasya  tejo  'pdkrdmat  \ 
tad  devdh  oshadhlshu  nyamryuh  \  te  Sydmdkdh  ahhavan  \  smaydkdh  vai 
ndma  ete  |  4.  Tat  smaydkdndm  smayakatvam  \  tasmdd  dikshitena  apigrihya. 
smetwoyam  tej'aso  dhrityai  |  sa  dhanuh  pratiskahhya  atishthat  \  tdh  upa- 
dlkdh  abruvan  \  "  varam  vrindmahai  |  atha  vah  imam  randhaydma  \ 
yatra  kva  oha  khandma  tad  apo  'hhitrinaddma"  iti  \  tasmdd  upadikdh 
yatra  kva  cha  khananti  tad  apo  'Ihitrindanti  \  5.  Vdrevritam  hy  dsdm  \ 
tasya  jydm  apyddan  \  tasya  dhanur  vipramamdnam  Urah  udmartayat  \ 
tad  dydvdprithivl  anuprdvartata  \  yat  prdvartata  tat  pravargyasya 
pravargyatvam  \  yad  ghrarh  ity  apatat  tad  Рђб  gha/rmasya  gharmatvam  \ 
mahato  viryam  apaptad  iti  tad  mahdvirasya  mahdvlratvam  |  6.  Yadasydh 
samabharams  tat  samrdjah  samrdttvam  |  tarn  stritam  devatds  tredhd 
vyagrihnata  \  Agnih  prdtahsmanam,  Indro  m.ddhyandinam  savanam  Vis- 
vedevds  tritiya-savanam  \  tena  apahirshnd  yajnena  yajamdndh  na  diisho 
'vdrundJiata  na  suvargam  lokam  abhyajayan  \  te  devdh  Aivindv  abruvan  \ 
7.  "  Bhishajau  vai  sthah  |  idam  yajnasya  iirah  pratidhattam  "  iti  \  tdv 
dbrutdm  "  va/ram  vrindvahai  grahah  eva  ndv  atrdpi  grihyatdm "  iti  \ 
tdbhydm  etam  divinam  agrihnan  \  tdv  etad  yajnasya  sirah  pratyadhattdfn 
yat  pravargyah  \  tena  saslrshnd  yajnena  yajamdndh  ava  dsisho  'rundhata  \ 
abhi  suvargam  lokam  ajayan  \  yat  prma/rgyam  pravinakti  yajnasya  eva 
taeh  chhirah  pratidadhdti  \  tena  saslrshnd  yajnena  yajdmdno  'va  dsisho 
rundhe  'bhi  smargam  lokdmjayati  \  tasmdd  esha  divina-pravaydJf,  iva  yat ' 


127  The  Bibl.  Ind.  reads  ishudhanvinam. 


128  VISHNU'S  HEAD  EEPLACED  BY  THE  ASTINS. 

"The  gods,  desirous  of  glory,  were  attending  a  sacrifice  complete  in 
every  respect.  They  said,  '  "Whatever  glory  first  comes  to  us,  that  shall 
be  common  to  us  all.'  Kurukshetra  was  their  altar.  Khandava  was 
its  southern,  Turghna  its  northern,  and  Parinah  its  hinder  section. 
The  Marus  were  the  earth  dug  from  it.  2.  Glory  came  to  Makha 
Vaishnava  among  their  number.  This  glory  he  eagerly  desired ;  with 
it  he  departed.  The  gods  followed  him,  seeking  to  obtain  [this]  glory. 
From  the  left  [hand]  of  him  whUe  thus  followed,  a  bow  was  produced, 
and  from  his  right  hand  arrows.  Hence  a  bow  and  arrows  have  a  holy 
origin,  for  they  are  sprung  from  sacrifice.  3.  Though  many,  they 
could  not  overcome  him,  though  he  was  only  one.  Therefore  many 
men  without  bows  and  arrows  cannot  overcome  one  hero  who  has  a 
bow  and  arrows.  He  smiled,  '  Though  they  are  many,  they  have  not 
overcome  me  who  am  only  one.'  Strength  departed  from  him  as  he 
continued  to  smile.  This  the  gods  put  upon  the  plants.  They  be- 
came ^yamaka  grain.  Por  they  are  smilers  {smayakah).  4.  Hence 
this  grain  derives  its  name.  "Wherefore  a  person  who  has  been  con- 
secrated should  smile  with  [his  mouth]  shut,  that  he  may  retain  his 
strength.  He  stood  leaning  on  his  bow.  The  ants  said  [to  the  gods], 
'Let  us  choose  a  boon;  and  after  that  we  shall  subject  him  to  you. 
"Wherever  we  dig,  let  us  open  up  water.'  Hence  wherever  ants  dig, 
they  open  up  water.  5.  For  this  was  the  boon  which  they  chose. 
They  knawed  his  (Vishnu's)  bowstring.  His  bow,  starting  asunder, 
hurled  his  head  upwards.  It  travelled  through  heaven  and  earth. 
From  its  so  travelling  {pravartata),  the  pravargya  derives  its  name. 
From  its  falling  with  the  sound  of  ghrdfn,  gharma  obtained  its  name. 
Strength  {mrya)  feU.  from  the  mighty  one  (mahatah) :  hence  the 
mahavira  got  its  name.  6.  As  they  gathered  it  (samahharan)  from 
this  [earth],  a  samrat  obtains  his  appellation.  The  gods  divided  him 
when  prostrate,  into  three  parts;  Agni  [took]  the  morning  oblation; 
Indra  the  midday  oblation,  and  the  Visvedevas  the  third  oblation. 
Sacrificing  with  this  headless  sacrifice,  they  (the  gods),  neither  obtained 
blessings,  nor  conquered  heaven.  7.  The  gods  said  to  the  Asvins, 
'  Ye  two  are  physicians,  replace  this  head  of  the  sacrifice.'  They  said, 
'  Let  us  ask  a  boon,  let  our  graha  (libation  of  Soma)  be  oifered 
here  also.'  [The  gods  accordingly]  recognized  this  Asvina  [libation] 
for  them.     [The  Asvins]  replaced  this  head  of  the  sacrifice,  which  is 


THE  PANCHAVIMS'A  AND  AITAEEYA  BEAHMANAS  ON  VISHNU.  129 

the  pravargya.  Sacrificing  with  this  sacrifice  with  a  head,  they  ob- 
tained blessings,  they  conquered  heaven."'  When  one  offers  the 
pravargya,  then  he  replaces  the  head  of  the  sacrifice.  Sacrificing  with 
this  sacrifice  with  a  head,  a  man  obtains  blessings,  and  conquers 
heaven.  Hence  this  pravargya  is  principally  efficacious  through  texts 
addressed  to  the  A^vins." 

Panchavimsa  Brahmana,  vii.  5,  6. Рђћ Bevah  vai  yahsTcamah  sairam 
asata  Agnir  Ind/ro  Vaywr  Mahhas  te  'hruvan  i  yan  no  ya^ah  riohhat  tan 
nah  saha  asad'  iti  \  tesham  Makhafh  yasah  drchhat  \  fad  adaya  apa- 
Icramat  \  tad  asya  pra  saha  aditsanta  tarn  paryayatanta  \  sa  dhairmh  pra- 
tishtahhya  atishthat  tasya  dhanv/r-artnir  urdhva  patitva  iiro  'chhinat 
sa  pravargyo  'hhavat  \  yajno  vai  Mahhah  \  yat  pravargyam  pravrinjanti 
yoj'nasya  eva  taoh  ohhirah  praiidadhati  \ 

"Desirous  of  glory,  the  gods,  Agni,  Indra,  Vayu  and  Makha,  were 
attending  a  sacrifice.  They  said,  'Whatever  glory  comes  to  us,  that 
shall  be  common  to  us.'  Glory  came  to  Makha  among  their  number. 
Taking  it,  he  departed.  The  others  wished  to  take  their  share  in  it. 
They  surrounded  him.  He  stoo'd  leaning  on  his  bow.  The  end  of 
his  bow,  springing  upwards,  cut  off  his  head.  He  became  the 
pravargya.  Makha  is  sacrifice.  When  men  offer  the  pravargya,  they 
replace  the  head  of  Makha." 

The  Aitareya  Brahmana  has  these  two  passages  relating  to  Vishnu, 
1, 1 :  Agnir  vai  devanam  avamo  |  Vishnuh  paramas  \  tadantarena  sarvdh 
any  ah  devatah.  "Agni  is  the  lowest,  Yishnu  the  highest,  among  the 
gods ;  between  them  both  are  placed  all  the  other  deities."  In  his 
Ane.  Sansk.  Lit.,  p.  390,  note.  Prof.  Miiller  remarks  that  "this  pas- 
sage proves  nothing  as  to  the  relative  dignity  of  Agni  and  Yishnu." 
Again,  1,  30,  on  quoting  E.  V.  1,  156,  4,  the  Aitareya  says:  Vishnur 
vai  devanam  doarapah  \  sa  eva  asmai  etad  dvdram  vivrinoti.  "Vishnu  is 
the  door-keeper  of  the  gods;  he  opens  for  him  this  door."  The  Taitt. 
Br.  iii.  1,  5,  7,  has  the  following:  Vishnur  vai  ahamayata  punyam 
ilolcam  irinviya  na  ma papl  Tnrttir  agaohhet.  "Vishnu  desired,  'May 
I  hear  a  holy  verse ;  may  no  ill  renown  reach  me.' "  The  Taitt.  S. 
iii.  4,  5,  1,  says:  Rudrah pasundm  Tvashta  rupanafh  Vishnuh parvata- 

1^'  Compare  the  close  of  the  story  about  the  AsVins  quoted  from  the  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  iv.  1,  5,  1  ff.,  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  250  ff. 


130  THE  EAMAYANA  ON  THE  DWARF  INCARNATION  OF  VISHNU. 

nam  Maruto  gananam  adhipatayah.    Рќа "  Eudra  is  the  lord  of  beasts, 
Tvashtri  of  forms,  Yishnu  of  mountains,  the  Maruts  of  hosts." 

The  following  passage  from  the  Eamayana  gives  the  legend  of  the 
Dwarf  incarnation  in  its  later  form  : 

"Eamayana  (Schlegel's  ed.),  i.  31,  2  ff. Рђћ 2.  Iha  Rama  mahdhaho 
Viihnwr  deva-namaahritah  \  tapas-eharana-yogartJiamuvasasamahatapah] 
3.  Esha  purvasramo  Rama  vamanasya  mahatmanah  \  siddhdSramah  iti 
khyatah  siddho  yatra  mahatapaji  \  4  Ahhibhuya  cha  Amend/ram  pura 
Yairochanir  Balih  [  trailolcya-rajyam  hubhuje  lalotseka-madanvitah  \  5. 
Tato  Balau  tada  yajnam  yajamane  hhayarditah  \  Ind/radayah  auraganah 
Vishnum  uchivr  ihah-ame  \  6.  "Balir  Vairoohanir  Vishno  yajate  'sau 
mahabdlah  \  Mma-dah,  sarva-hhutanSm  maharddhir  aswadhipah  \  7.  Ye 
ehainam  dbhivartante  yachitarah  itastatah  \  yachcha  yatra  yathavaoheha 
sarvaih  tebhyah  prayaohchhati  \  8.  Sa  tvam  sura-Mtarthdya  mdya-yogam 
updsritah  |  vamanatvam  gato  Vishno  Tcuru  Icalyanam  uttamam "  |  9."' 
\_^asmmn  antare  Rama  Kasyapo  ' gni-sama-pralhah  \  Adityd  sahito 
Rama  dipyamanah  ivaujasd  \  10.  Devl-sahayo  Ihagavdn  divya-varsTia- 
sahasraham  \  vratam  samapya  vara-dam  tushtdva  Madhusudanam  |  11. 
"  Tapomayarh  tapo-rdMm  tapo-murtim  tapo-dhanam  \  tapasd  tvdm  su- 
taptena  pa^ydmi  purushoitamam  \  12.  S'arlre  tava  palydmi j'agat  sarvam 
idamprahho  |  tvam  anddir  anirdesyas  tvdm  aham  iaranam  gatah"  \  13. 
Tarn  iivdcha  Harih  prltah  Kasya'pafh  dhuta-kalmasham  \  vwrarh  varaya 
Ihadram  te  vardrho  'si  maio  mama  \  14.  TacJi  ehhrutvd  vachanam  tasya 
Mdrichah  Kaiyapo  'hravU  \  " putratvam  gachchha  Ihagavann  Aditydh 
mama  chdnagha  \  15.  Bhrdtd  bhava  yaviyams  tvam  S'ahrasydsura- 
sudana  |  ioMrtdndm  tu  devdndih  sahdyyam  kartum  a/rhasi"  \  16.  Atha 
Vishnur  mahdtejdh  Aditydih  samajdyata  \  chhatrl  hhihshuka-rupena 
kamandalu-Ukhqjjvalah  \  ]  17.  Evam  uktah  swrair  Vishnur  vdmanam 
rupam  asthitah  \  Vairochanim  updgamya  trin  yaydchatmanah  kramdn  \ 

"9  The  following  verses  9-16  seem  to  be  rightly  inclosed  in  brackets  by  Schlegel, 
as  interpolated.  A  comparison  of  verse  8  with  verse  17  shows  that  the  latter  must 
originally  have  followed  immediately  after  the  former.  It  will  be  seen,  however,  that 
in  verse  19  of  the  text  of  the  Bombay  edition,  as  quoted  further  on,  the  words  at  the 
beginning  of  verse  17  of  Schlegel's  edition  :  Eoam  uktah  surair  Vishnuh  ("Vishnu 
being  thus  addressed  by  the  deities"),  are  omitted,  and  the  appearance  of  interpolation 
is  avoided.  Compare  the  versions  of  the  story  given  below  from  the  Mahabharata  and 
the  BhSgavata  Purana,  where  the  dwarf  is  said  to  have  been  the  son  of  Kas'yapa  and 
Aditl.  This  is  also  the  parentage  of  Vishnu  as  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas. Рђћ See 
above,  pp.  118  ff. 


HOW  COITLD  BALI,  THE  GODS'  ENEMY,  SAOEIEICE  TO  THEMP  131 

18.  Jjobdihoa  cha  trln  hraman  Yishnuh  hritiiS,  rupam  afhadbhuiam  \ 
tribhih  hramais  tada  hkan  ajarhara  tri-vikramah  |  19-.  Ehena  hi  pads, 
kfitmdm  prithivim  se^  'ihyatishthata  \'  dvUij/etiacym/a^  vyoma  dyafh 
triilyena  Eaghava  \  20'>  Tom  chaswam  Balifh  kritvd  pdtala-tdla- 
vdsinam  \  trailokya^vaj.y.am  Indraya  daddv  viddhritya  kanfakam  | 

The  readings  of  tbis  passage,  as  giTen  in  the  Bombay  edition  ^^''  i. 
29,  2  ff.,  differ  occasionally  from  those  of  Schlegel's.  I  subjoin  them 
here :  2.  Iha  Rama  mahabdho  Vishmr  deva-nammkritah  ]  varshdui 
mlahuniha  taths  ywga-iatdni  oha  |  3  |  tapa^-chcwana-yogdrtham  wodsa 
sumahdtapdh  ]  [verses  3b  and  4a  correspond,Рђћ with  only  the  difference 
of  hy  atra  for  ┬Ф<ra,-^'with  verse  3  of  Schlegel's  edition]  4b  |  etasminn 
eva  kale  tu  rdjd  Vairochanir  BaliK  \  5  \'  nirjityct  daivata-ffandn  sendrdn 
saha-marud-gamn  |  kdrm/drndsa  tad-rajyam,  trishw  iokeshu  viirutah  \  6  | 
yajnam  chakdra  ''^  sumahdn  aswrendro  mahdhalah  \  Bales  tu  ya^amdnmya 
devdh  sagm-pwogiamdh.  \  samdgamya  svayam  ehaim  Vishmm  uehur 
ih&irame  |  7  |  "  Balir   Vairochanir   Vishno  yiyate  yaj'nam  uttamam   \ 

''"  See  Prof.  Weber's  aooount  of  this  eddtiou  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental 
Society  for  1863,  vol.  17,  pp.  771  ff. 

"'  In  his  note  on  this,  passage,,  the  eommentator  discusses  the  question  how  Bali 
could  sacrifice  to  the  gods,  since  he  was  at  enmity  with  Indra  and  the  rest  of  them : 
NamUf  "asurasya  Baler  deva-dvisho  yagadyamtipapattir  yaga-tarpaniya-devatabhavad 
Indradmam  tad-dvesMyatvat  \  naeha  s'abda-mStram  devata  iti  yuktam  artha-vdda- 
pramanyena  devatayah  vigrahmattvasya  uttara-mlmamsayam  siddhSntitatvad"  iti 
ehef  1  na  |  Jearma-deva-Sjana-deva  bhedma  devanam  dvaividhyat  |  tatra  ye  harmana 
devatvam  praptas  te  karma-demh  |  ajana-devas  tu  yajna-mantrartha-bhutah  mantrma, 
nitya-sambaddahharina-devebhyahpraohmah  eva  \  tat-karma-devanam  dveshyatve'py 
ajana-devanam  yajne  tarpyatve  na  doshaih  \  mghna-kartaro  'py  atra  karma-devah  ma  \ 
yajmdyadMkarabhdvo  ^py  ajana-devandm  eva  sva-yashtavya-devatdntarSbhamt  | 
karma-devanaih  tv  asty  eva  |  atah  eva  Indradmam  yajnadi-aravanam  na  anupannam  j 

"But  is  there  not  an  absurdity  in  the  idea  of  sacrifice,  etc.,  being  celebrated  by 
Bali,  the  enemy  of  the  gods,  from  there  being  no  deities  who  could  be  gratified  hy  it, 
since  Indra  and  the  rest  of  them  were  the  objects  of  his  hostility  ?  And  it  is  not 
correct  to  say  that  a  god  is  a  mere  name,  for  in  the  Fttara  Mimamsa  the  corporeality 
of  the  deities,  is  established  on  the  authority  of  the  Arthayadas  (illustrative  passages  of 
the  Vedas).  [See  the  passage  of  Santara's  Commentary  on  the  Brahma  or  Vedanta 
Sutras,  i.  3,  28,  quoted  in  the  third  vol.  of  this  work,  pp-.  99  ff.,  especially  p.  102  at 
the  foot.]  If  this  objection  be  urged,  then  I  reply,  that  the  case  is  not  so  ;  for  the 
gods  are  of  two  kinds,  work-gods,  and  those  who  are  gods  from,  their  birth.  (See  the 
fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  1 7,  f.  note  26,  and  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiv.  7,  1, 34  f.)  Of  these 
two  kinds,  the  gods  who  have  become  such  by  works  of  merit  are  '  work-gods.'  But 
it  is  those  who  are  gods  from  their  birth  that  are  the  objects  of  the  sacrifiojal  formulas 
and  eternally  connected  with  those  formulas ;  and  they  are  more  ancient  than  the 
'work-gods.'  Even  if  the  'work-gods'  be  objects  of  hostility,  no  exception  can  be 
taken  to  the  supposition  that  the  gods  by  birth  may  be  gratified  by  sacrifice.    And  in 


132  VISHNU'S  DWARF  INCARNATION 

asamapta-vrate  tasmin  svaharyam  dbhipadyatdm  \  [verses  8-1  Sa  cor- 
respond with,  verses  7-14┬Ф  of  SoKlegel's  ed.,  substituting  however  tapat- 
malcam  for  ta/po-dhanam,  and  purushopamam  for  pwushottamam]  15 J  | 
Adityah  devatanam  cha  mama  ehawanuyacMtam  |  16  j  varam  varada 
svprito  datum  arhasi  suvrata  \  [verses  16J  and  17  agree  with  14 J  and 
15  of  Schlegel's  edition]  18.  Ayam  SiddhaSramo  nama  prasadat  te 
ihavishyati  \  siddhe  Tca/rmani  deveia  uttishtha  hhagavann  itah  \  19.  Atha 
Vishnur  mahatejah  Adityarh  samajdyata  \  Vamanafh  rupam  dsthdya 
Vairochanim  updgamat  |  20  |  trmpaddn  atha  hhihshitvd  pratigrihya  cha 
medinim  \  akramya  lokdn  lohdrihi  sa/rva-loka-hite  ratah  |  21  (  Mahen- 
d/rdya  punah  prdddd  niyamya  Balim  ejasd  \  trailoTcyam  sa  mahatejdS 
ehakre  S'alcra-va^am  punah  | 

I  subjoin  the  text  of  the  same  passage  according  to  Signer  Grorresio's 
edition : 

Eamayana  (Gorresio's  ed.),  i.  32,  2  ff. Рђћ Esha  punairamo  Rama 
vdmanasya  mahdtmanah  \  siddhd^ramah  iti  Miydtah  siddho  yatra  mahd- 
yaidh  \  3.  Vishrmr  vdmana-rupena  tapyamdno  mahat  tapah  \  trailolcya- 
rdjye  'pahrite  Balinendrasya  Rdghava  \  [verses  4,  5,  6  correspond  word 
for  word  with  those  of  Schlegel's  edition]  7.  Tarn  tvam  vdmana-rupena 
gatvd  hhikshitum  arhasi  \  viler amdms  trln  mahdbdho  data  hiniyatam  sa  te  | 
8.  Bhikshito  vikramdn  etdms  trln  virya-hala-darpitah  |  paribhuyajagan- 
ndtham  tubhyam  vdmana-rupine  |  9.  Ye  hy  enam  abhiySchante  lipsa- 
mdndh  svam  tpsitam  |  tan  kdmair  ipsitaih  sarvdn  yojayaty  asuresvarah  | 
10.  Sa  tvam  trailokya-rdjyam  no  hritambhuyo  jagat-pate  \  ddtum  arhasi 
nirjitya  vikramair  bhuribhis  tribhih  |  11.  Ayam  siddhdkramo  ndma 
siddha-karmd  bhavishyati  \  tasmin  harmani  samsiddhe  tava  satya-para- 
hrama  \  [Gorresio's  edition  does  not  contain  any  verses  corresponding 
to  those  marked  by  Schlegel  as  spurious,  viz.  lines  9-16  of  his  edition.] 
12.  Evam  uktah  surair  Vishnur  vdmanam  rupam  asthitah  |  Vairochanim 
updgamya  trln  aydchata  vikramdn  \  [The  remaining  verses  are  word  for 
word  the  same  as  in  Schlegel's  recension.] 

the  case  before  us  it  is  the  '  work-gods '  who  are  the  distiirhers  of  the  sacrifice. 
Further,  it  is  the  gods  by  birth  who  are  incapable  of  performing  sacrifice,  because 
there  are  no  other  deities  to  whom  they  could  offer  it.  [See  the  first  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  365,  note  163.]  "Whereas  the  '  work-gods '  can  perform  sacrifice.  Wherefore  the 
tradition  thut  Indra  and  the  rest  performed  sacrifice  is  not  absurd."  It  is  etrange  for 
readers  of  the  Vedic  hymns  to  be  told  that  Indra  is  not  an  object  of  worship  by 
sacrifice. 


ACCOEBING  TO  THE  EAMAYANA.  133 

The  following  is  a  translation  of  the  passage  according  to  Schlegel's 
edition : 

Vi^vamitra  speats :  "  2.  In  this  place,  0  large-armed  Eama,  Vishnu, 
the  great  ascetic,  reverenced  by  the  gods,  dwelt  for  the  purpose  of  prac- 
tising austerity,  and  contemplation.  3.  This,  Kama,  was  the  former 
hermitage  of  the  magnanimous  dwarf,  renowned  as  the  '  Hermitage  of 
the  Perfect,'  where  the  great  ascetic  was  perfected.  4.  Formerly,  Bali, 
the  son  of  Yirochana,  after  conquering  the  chief  of  the  gods  (Indra) 
enjoyed  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds,  intoxicated  with  the  increase  of 
his  power.  5.  "When  Bali  was  then  celebrating  a  sacrifice,  Indra  and  the 
other  gods,  disturbed  with  apprehension,  addressed  Vishnu  in  this  hermit- 
age. 6.  '  That  mighty  Bali,  son  of  Yirochana,  0  Vishnu,  is  now  perform- 
ing sacrifice, Рђћ he  who  grants  the  desires  of  aU.  creatures,  the  prosperous 
lord  of  the  Asuras.  7.  "Whatever  suppliants  wait  upon  him  from  what- 
ever quarter,  he  bestows  on  them  in  a  proper  manner  all  whatever, 
of  any  sort  of  thing,  [they  wish].  8.  Do  thou,  0  Vishnu,  assuming 
a  magical  state  for  the  benefit  of  the  deities,  take  the  shape  of  a  dwarf, 
and  bring  about  our  highest  welfare.'  [9.  At  this  period,  0  Eama,  the 
divine  Kasyapa,  luminous  as  fire,  glowing,  as  it  were,  with  splendour, 
attended  by  the  goddess- Aditi,  (10)  having  completed  an  act  of  austerity 
which  had  lasted  for  a  thousand  years  of  the  gods,  celebrated  [thus] 
the  praises  of  the  boon-bestowing  Madhusudana :  11.  '  Through  intense 
austerity  I  behold  thee,  the  supreme  Spirit,  whose  essence  is  austerity, 
who  art  a  congeries  of  austerity,  the  impersonation  of  austerity,  who  art 
rich  in  austerity.  12.  In  thy  body,  lord,  I  behold  this  whole  uni- 
verse ;  thou  art  unbeginning  and  ineffable ;  to  thee  I  have  resorted 
as  my  refuge.'  13.  Then  Hari,  gratified,  spake  to  Kasyapa,  whose 
taint  of  sin  had  been  purged  away :  '  Ask  a  boon ;  may  good  attend 
thee ;  thou  art  regarded  by  me  as  deserving  a  boon.'  14.  Hearing 
these  words  of  his,  Kasyapa,  son  of  Marichi,  replied :  '  Sinless  lord, 
become  the  son  of  Aditi  and  myself.  15.  Slayer  of  the  Asuras, 
become  the  younger  brother  of  S'akra  (Indra).  Thou  oughtest  to 
succour  the  gods  who  are  oppressed  with  grief.'  16.  Vishnu,  of 
mighty  energy,  was  accordingly  born  of  Aditi,  shaded  by  an  umbrella, 
in  the  form  of  a  mendicant,  resplendent  with  a  drinking  gourd,  and  a 
look  of  hair  on  the  crown  of  his  head.]  17.  Thus  addressed  by  the  deities, 
Vishnu  took  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  approaching  the  son  of  Vii-ochana, 


134  VISHNU'S  DWAET  INCARNATION  ACCORDING  TO 

Рќаbegged  three  of  his  owe  paces.  18.  Having  ohtained  three  paces,  the 
thrice-steppiag  Vishnu  assumed  a  miraculous  form,  and  with  three 
paces  took  possession  of  the  worlds.  For  with  one  step  he  occupied 
the  whole  earth,  with  a  second  the  eternal  atmosphere,  and  with  a 
third  the  sky,  0  Kaghava.  Having  lien  assigned  to  the  Asura  Bali 
an  abode  in  Patala  (the  infernal  region),  he  gave  the  empire  of  the 
three  worlds  to  Indra,  after  removing  his  enemy." 

I  subjoin  a  translation  of  those  parts  of  the  Bombay  text  which  are 
different  from  Schlegel's : 

2.  "In  this  place,  0  great-armed  Bama,  Vishnu,  the  great  ascetic, 
reverenced  by  the  gods,  dwelt  very  many  years  and  hundreds  of  yugas, 
(3)  for  the  purpose  of  practising  austerity  and  contemplation.  [Verses 
3b  and  4a  are  almost  identical  with  the  reading  of  the  other  edition.] 
4J.  But  at  this  very  period  the  renowned  King  Bali,  son  of  Virochana, 
(5)  having  conquered  the  hosts  of  the  deities,  including  Indra  and 
the  Maruts,  ruled  in  their  stead  over  the  three  worlds,  6.  This  very 
great  and  potent  lord  of  the  Asuras  celebrated  a  sacrifice.  While  he 
was  doing  so,  the  gods,  keaded  by  Agni,  assembled,  and  addressed 
Vishnu  in  this  hermitage.  7.  '  Bali,  the  son  of  Virochana,  0  Vishnu, 
is  celebrating  a  grand  sacrifice.  Let  his  rite  remain  incomplete ;  and 
let  our  object  be  attained.  [Verses  8-1 5┬Ф  correspond  very  nearly 
with  7-14(1  of  the  other  edition.]  I5i-16j.  0  boon-bestowing, 
holy,  deity,  be  well  pleased,  and  bestow  the  boon  which  Aditi,  the 
gods,  and  I  solicit.  [Verses  16i  and  17  agree  with  14S  and  15  of  the 
other  ed.]  18a.  This  by  thy  favour  shall  be  called  Siddha^rama  (the 
hermitage  where  the  work  was  accomplished).  The  work  being  ac- 
complished, depart  hence,  0  king  of  the  gods.'  19.  Then  the  glorious 
Vishnu  was  bom  of  Aditi.  Assuming  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  he  ap- 
proached the  son  of  Virochana.  20.  Then  having  begged  for  three 
paces  of  ground,  and  having  occupied  the  earth,  he,  desiring  the 
worlds,  devoted  to  the  good  of  all  creatures,  having  stalked  over  the 
worlds,  (21)  restored  them  to  Mahendra  (great  Indra),  having 
overcome  Bali  by  his  might.  This  glorious  being  made  the  three 
worlds  again,  subject  to  S'akra  (Indra)."  (See  note  "'  above.) 

I  add  a  translation  of  those  parts  of  Gorresio's  text  which  differ 
from  Schlegel's  : 

"2.  This,  Bama,  is  the  former  hermitage  of  the  magnanimous  dwarf, 


THE  RAMATANA  AND  THE  MAHABHAEATA.  135 

called  the  'Hermitage  of  the  Perfect,' '"'  where  the  illustrious  Vishnu 
Рђбwas  perfected,  (3)  when  performing  a  great  act  of  austerity  in  the  form 
of  a  dwarf,  [at  the  time]  when  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds  had  been 
taken  away  from  Indra  by  Bali.  [Verses  4-6  correspond  word  for 
word  with  those  of  Sohlegel's  edition.  J  7.  '  Now  thou  shouldst  go  in 
the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  beg  three  paces,  0  large-armed.  8.  For, 
proud  of  his  valour  and  strength,  after  his  victory  over  the  lord  of  the 
world  (Indra),  he,  when  supplicated,  will  certainly  give  these  three 
paces  to  thee  [appearing]  in  the  form  of  a  dwarf.  9.  Por  that  lord  of 
the  Asuras  fulfils  the  desires  of  all  those  persoiw  who  suppKeate  him  for 
their  accomplishment.  10.  Thou,  lord  of  the  world,  oughtest  to  give 
us  back  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds  which  has  been  taken  away  from 
us,  after  thou  hast  conquered  it  by  three  vast  strides.  11.  This  which 
is  called  Siddha^rama  (the  hermitage  where  the  work  was  fulfilled),"'* 
shall  be  [a  place]  where  this  work  is  fulfilled,  when  this  work  has 
been  accomplished  by  thee,  0  possessor  of  real  might.'  Thus  addressed 
by  the  deities,  Vishnu  assumed  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  approaching 
the  son  of  Viroohana,  begged  for  three  paces."  (The  rest  corresponds 
with  Schlegel's  edition,  except,  as  above  stated,  in  the  omission  of 
verses  9-16  there  given.) 

The  following  are  two  brief  notices  of  the  dwarf  incarnation  from 
the  Mahabharata : 

Mahabharata,  S'antiparva,  vv.  12943  ff.  Рђћ  Yvroehanasya  halavan 
Balihputro  mdftdswrah  \  ahadhyah  sarva-lokanam  8a-devast(ra-rahhasam\ 
hhavishyati  sa  S'akraneha  sva-rajyad  eharayishyati  {=ehyavayishyatif)  | 
trmhkye  ^frahrite  tena  vmukhe  cha  S'aeMpaiau  |  Adityam  doadasadityah 
Bambhwoiihyami  Kaiyapat  \  fato  rajyam pradasyami  S'ahrayamUa-tejase\ 
devatah  sthapayiahyami  svesha  sthaneshu  Narada  \  Balinohawa  karishyami 
patala-tdla-vaainam  \  Danavaneha  Balitn  ireshfham  aiadhyam  sarva- 
daivataih  \ 

After  referring  to  his  Boar,  and  Man-lion  incarnations,  Vishnu  says 
to  Ifarada :  "  The  great  Asura  Bali,  the  strong  son  of  Virochana,  shall 
be  indestructible  by  aU  beings,  including  gods,  Asuras,  and  Eakshasas. 
He  shall  oust  S'akra  (Indra)  from  his  kingdom.  "When  the  three 
worlds  have  been  taken  by  Bali,,  and  the  lord  of  S'achi  (Indra)  has  been 
put  to  flight,  I  shall  be  born  in  the  form  of  the  twelve  Adityas,  the 

"'Рђб  The  participle  siddha  means  both  "perfect"  and  "accompUslied." 


136      VISHNU'S  DWAEF  INOAENATION  ACCOEDmG  TO  THE 

son  of  Kasyapa  and  Aditi.  I  will  then  restore  Ms  empire  to  S'atra  of 
boundless  energy;  will  reinstate  tie  gods  in  their  several  positions; 
wiU  place  Bali  in  Patala,  the  eminent  Danava  Bali,  indestructible  by 
all  the  gods." 

Mahabharata,  Vanaparva,  vv.  484  ff. Рђћ "'Aditer  api  putratmm  etya 
Yadava-nandana  \  tvaih  Vishnwr  iti  vihhyatah  Indrdd  avarcy'o  vibhuh  | 
Sisur  hhutvd  divafft  khancha  pritMvmcha  parantapa  |  tribhir  vihramanaih 
Krishna  hrantman  ad  tejasd  \  samprapya  divam  altaiam  aditya-sadane 
sthitah  \  atydrohaicha  hhutdtman  IhdsTcwram  svena  fy'asd  \  prddv/rhlidva- 
sahasreshu  teshu  teshu  tvayd  vibho  \  adharma-ruchayali  Krishna  nihatdh 
sataso'  surdh  \  "And  thou,  Krishna,  of  the  Tadava  race,  having  be- 
come the  son  of  Aditi,  and  being  called  Vishnu,  the  younger  brother 
of  Indra,  the  all-pervading,  becoming  a  child,  0  vexer  of  thy  foes, 
hast  by  thy  energy  traversed  the  sky,  the  atmosphere,  and  the  earth, 
in  three  strides.  Having  attained  to  the  sky  and  the  ether,  and  oc- 
cupied the  abode  of  the  Adityas,  thou,  0  soul  of  all  beings,  hast  over- 
passed the  sun  by  thine  own  lustre.  In  these  thousands  of  thy  mani- 
festations, 0  all-pervading  Krishna,  thou  hast  slain  hundreds  of  Asuras 
who  delighted  in  iniquity." 

The  next  passage  is  a  short  notice  of  the  same  incarnation  from  the 
Vishnu  Purana : 

Vish.  Pur.  iii.  1  (p.  265  of  Wilson's  translation;  vol.  iii.,  p.  18,  of 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.). Рђћ Manvantmre  tu  samprdpte  tathd  Faivasvate  dvij'a  | 
vdmanah  KaiyapSd  Vishnur  Aditydm,  sambahhuva  ha  \  Trihhih  hramair 
imdn  lokdn  jitva  yena  mahdtmand  \  Puranda/rdya  trailokyam  dattam 
nihata-Tcantakam  |  "  So  when  the  Vaivasvata  manvantara  had  arrived, 
Vishnu  was  born  as  a  dwarf,  the  son  of  Aditi  and  Kasyapa.  By  this 
great  being,  after  he  had  conquered  these  worlds  by  three  paces,  the  three 
worlds  were  given  to  Purandara  (Indra),  his  enemy  being  destroyed." 

The  story  of  Vishnu's  incarnation  as  a  dwarf  is  told  in  a  greatly 
developed  form  in  the  fifteenth  and  following  sections  of  the  eighth 
Book  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana.  As  the  whole  narrative  is  too  long  to 
be  quoted  here  in  extenso,  I  shall  give  an  abstract  of  the  contents  of 
these  sections,  translating  in  full  some  of  those  portions  which  appear 
the  most  important.     The  story  commences  thus : 

'''  See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  vol,  i.,  p.  489,  note,  and  p.  779  f.  and  note  (pp. 
587,  and  921  of  the  second  edition). 


MAHABHARATA,  AND  THE  VISHNU  AND  BHAGAVATA  PUEANAS.  137 

Bhagavata  Purana,  Tiii.  15,  1. Рђћ Bahh  pada-trayam  hhumeh  hasmad 
ITarir  ayachata  \  Ihutveivarah  kripam-val  lahddrtho  'pi  hahtmdha  tarn  \ 
2.  Mad  veditum  ichhamo  mahat  Icautuhalam  hi  nah  \  yajneivarasya 
purmsya  landhanafh  ohdpy  anagmah  \ 

The  king  asks :  "  "Why  did  Hari,  the  lord  of  creatures,  ask,  like  a 
poor  man,  three  paces  of  land  from  Bali  ?  and  why,  when  he  had 
obtained  his  object,  did  he  bind  him  ?  2.  This  we  desire  to  know ; 
and  we  have  a  great  curiosity ; Рђћ and  also  why  an  innocent  being  was 
bound  by  the  perfect  lord  of  sacrifice  ? "  The  sage  S'uka  replies 
(verses  3  ff.)  that  after  Bali  had  been  deprived  of  life  by  Indra,  he 
was  restored  by  the  Brahmans  of  the  race  of  Bhrigu,  who  consecrated 
him  for  supreme  dominion,  and  celebrated  for  him  a  Visvajit  sacrifice, 
which  had  the  virtue  of  enabling  him  to  conquer  aU  his  enemies.  He 
then  sets  out  (verse  11),  attended  by  a  host  of  Daityas,  to  attack  the 
capital  of  Indra,  which  is  described  with  aU  its  splendours  and 
attractions.  When  Bali  had  invested  the  city  (verse  23),  Indra 
inquires  of  his  spiritual  preceptor  how  it  is  that  his  enemy  has  ac- 
quired this  tremendous  power,  which  appears  altogether  irresistible. 

The  preceptor  replies  (verses  15,  28  ff.)  :  Janami  Magha/oan  satror 
unnafer  asya  haranam  \  sishyayopabhritaffi  tejo  Bhrigubhir  hrahma- 
vadihhih  \  29.  Bhavad-vidho  bhavdn  va'pi  varj'ayitvesvara^  Harim  \ 
nasya  kaktah,  purah  sthdtum  Icritdntasya  yathd  j'andh  |  30.  Tasmdd 
nilayam  {=ada/rsanam,'^^^  Comm.)  utsrijya  yuyam  sarve  trimahtapam  \ 
ydta  kdlam  pratikshanto  yatah  iatror  viparyayah  |  31.  Usha  vipra- 
halodwrkah  sarnpraty  urjita-vikra/mah  \  teshdm  evdvamdnena  sdnuhandho 
vinankshyati  \ 

"I  know,  Maghavan,  the  cause  of  the  exaltation  of  this  your  enemy 
to  be  the  might  imparted  to  their  pupil  by  the  Bhrigus,  the  declarers 
of  the  Yeda.  29.  No  one  such  as  you,  not  even  you  yourself,  [nor  any 
one]  excepting  only  Hari  the  lord,  is  able  to  stand  before  him,  as  men 
[are  unable  to  confront]  death.  30.  Wherefore  do  ye  all,  abandoning 
heaven,  disappear,  expecting  [the  operation  of]  time,  from  which 
[shall  come]  the  overthrow  of  your  enemy.  31.  He  now  reaps  the 
fruits  of  Brahmanical  power,  and  thus  his  prowess  has  become  aug- 
mented. 'Through  contempt  of  these  same  Brahmans,  he  shall  perish 
with  all  his  dependents." 

13'  The  word  nSaya,  however,  may  also  mean  "  abode,"  in  which  case  the  sense 
will  be  "abandoning  heaven,  yoiir  abode,  depart,"  etc. 


138  DWAEF  INCAENATION  OF  VISHNU 

(The  prophecy  here  uttered  in  regard  to  the  fall  of  Bali  as  a  result  of 
his  disregard  of  the  Brahmans  wUl  hereafter  be  found  to  be  fulfilled. 
See  belo-w,  sect.  20,  vv.  14  ff.,  p.  145.) 

Following  the  advice  of  their  preceptor,  Indra  and  the  other  gods 
abandoned  heaven,  and  Bali  took  possession  of  the  celestial  capital, 
when  the  Bhrigus  celebrated  for  him  a  hundred  asvamedhas  (or  horse- 
sacrifices). 

The  sixteenth  section  opens  With  an  account  of  the  distress  of  Aditi, 
the  mother  of  the  gods,  at  the  discomfiture  of  her  sons  by  the  Baiityas. 
She  receives  a  visit  from  her  husband  the  Prajapati  Easyapa,  who 
makes  various  conjectures  about  the  cause  of  her  apparent  unhappiness, 
of  which  (verse  15  f.)  he  receives  an  explanation.     He  then  replies : 

(Sect.  16,  vv.  18  S.)Рђћ-M>am  abhya/rthito  'ditya  Kas  tarn  &ha  amayann 
iva  I  aho  mdya-halam  Vishnoh  sneha-laddham  idantjagat  \  19.  Kva  deha 
bhautiJco  'ndtmd  kva  ehdtmid  prakriteh  parah  \  kaaya  he  pati-putradydh 
mohah  eva  hi  hafandm  \  20.  Upatwhthasva  Fwrushwm  Ihaga/Oaniam 
Janardanam  \  sarva-hhuta-gukdvdaaih  Vasudevatm  jagad-gwum  \  21. 
&a  vidhdayati  te  kdman  Swrir  dlndnwkampanah  \  amogkd  Ihagavad- 
bhaktir  netareti  matir  mama  \ 

18.  "  Being  thus  entreated  by  Aditi,  Ka  "*'  (Ka^yapa)  answers  herj 
as  it  were  smiling,  '  0,  the  power  of  Vishnu's  illusion  !  this  world  is 
bound  by  affection.  19.  Where  is  this  elemental^  body,  which  is  not 
soul  ?  and  where  is  soul,  which  is  superior  to  matter  ?  {i.e.  how  great  is 
the  superiority  of  soul  to  the  body  !) "┬░  Who  are  the  husband,  or  the 
sons,  or  other  relatives,  of  a;ny  J)erson  ?  "'  {i.e.  there  are  no  such  things 

134  For  an  explanation  of  this  word  see  aljove,  p.  15,  note  43.    Here  it  stands  for 


135  Compare  for  tliis  idiom  the  Eaghu'^ams'aj  i.  2:  Kva  s^rya-prabhavo  vamSalt  km 
chalpa-vishaya  matih  \  "  "Where  is  the  race  descended  from  the  Sun,  and  where  is  my 
mind  of  which  the  (proper)  objects  are  so  small?"  i.e.  the  disproportion  between  the 
two  things  is  great. 

136  This  sentiment  appeals  to  be  here  intended  as  orthodox  :  but  similar  observa- 
tions, when  made  in  the  Eamayana  (Schlegel's  and  Bombay  editions),  ii.  108,  3  f.,  are 
spoken  of  as  dharmapeta,  which  the  scholiast  in  the  Bombay  edition  interprets  as  = 
dharma-marga-viddhcm  lokayatika-matavalambanam,  i.e.,  '.'  opposed  to  righteous- 
ness, and  derived  from  the  tenets  of  the  Lokayatikas."  The  words  there  are:  kah  kasyA 
purusho  bandhuh  kirn  apyam  kasya  kenachit  \  eko  hi  jayate  jantur  ekaheva  vinasyati  | 
4  I  tmmad  mats,  pita  eheti  Kama  sajjetayo  narah  \  immattah  iva  aa  jneyo  nasti  kaschid 
hi  kasyacMt  |  3.  "  What  person  is  the  relation  of  any  (other)  f  what  affinity  has  any 
one  with  another  ?    For  a  creature  is  born  alone,  and  perishes  alone.    4.  Whosoever, 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  BHAGAVATA  PtJEANA.  139 

as  real  relations) ;  delusion  alone  creates  them.  20.  Betake  thyself  to 
Purusha,  the  divine  Janardana,  who  dwells  in  the  heart  of  all  creatures, 
Vasudeva,  the  preceptor  of  the  world.  21.  Hari,  who  compassionates 
the  afflicted,  will  fulfil  thy  desires :  devotion  to  the  lord,  and  that  alone, 
is  never  fruitless ;  such  is  my  judgment." 

Aditi  then  asks  how  she  is  to  worship  Vishnu  in  such  a  way  as  to 
obtain  her  desire,  and  receives  from  Kasyapa  an  account  (extending 
to  the  end  of  the  section)  of  the  milk  ceremonial  {payo-vnta)  which 
she  is  to  perform. 

She  accordingly  celebrates  the  prescribed  rite  (sect.  17  ff.),  when 
Hari,  the  primeval  Purusha,  appears  to  her  in  yellow  vesture,  with 
four  arms,  bearing  his  shell,  discus,  and  club.  She  implores  his 
succour,  and  receives  an  assurance  that  he  has  been  gratified  by  her 
service,  which  shall  not  remain  unfraitfdl.    He  goes  on  to  say : 

(Sect.  17,  w.  18  S.)^-Tmyaroh,itai  chaham  apatya-guptaye  payo- 
vratenanugumih  samidifah  \  svdmsena  putratvam  upetya  te  sufdn  gop- 
tdsmi  Mdrieha-tapasy  adhishtUtah  |  19.  Upadhdva  patim  Ihadre  pra- 
jdpatim  alcalmasham  \  mdfh,  cha  ihdvayati  patydv  evamrupam  avasfhitam  \ 
20.  Naitat  parasmai  dJchyeyam  pruhtayd  'pi  kathanehana  \  sarvam  sam- 
padyate  devi  deva-guhyoM  msamvritam  \  21.  8'ukah  uvdeha  \  etdvad 
uktva  hhagavdms  tatramdntmradMyata  \  Aditir  dwlabham  labdhvd  Ma/rer 
jmmdtmani  prabhoh  \  upddhdvat  patim  hhahtyd  parayd  krita-kritya-vat  \ 
22.  8a  vai  samddhi-yogena  Kaiyapas  tad  aludhyata  |  pravishtam  dtmani 
Mdrer  affi&am  hy  miitathehhamh  \  23.  So  'ditydmvirydm  adhatta  tapasd 
chvra-sambhritam  \  samdhita-mandh  rdjan  ddruny  agniih  yathd  'nilah  | 

"  '  Worshipped  by  thee  with  the  milk  ceremonial  for  the  deliverance 
of  thy  offspring,  and  lauded  according  to  my  attributes,  I  shall,  with  a 
portion  of  myself,  become  thy  son,  and  deliver  thy  chUdren,  presiding 
over  the  austerity  of  Marlcha  (Ka^yapa).  19.  Wait,  virtuous  female, 
upon  thy  husband,  the  sinless  Prajapati,  meditating  on  me,  who  in 

therefore,  is  attached  to  any  person,  (thinking  '  this  is  my)  father  or  mother,'  is  mad. 
No  one  is  anything  to  any  other."  The  word  apyam  in  verse  3,  -which  I  have 
rendered  by  "  affinity,"  according  to  the  Vedic  sense  of  the  term,  is  explained  by  the 
commentator  as  =prapyam,  "  to  be  obtained."  The  clause,  according  to  him,  would 
thus  mean  :  "  What  is  to  be  Obtained  by  any  one  person  from  any  other?"  The 
word  may  here,  however,  perhaps  have  the  Vedic  sense,  although  it  is  unusual,  if 
Hot  elsewhere  unknown,  in  modem  Sanskrit.  Gorresio's  edition,  ii.  116,  12,  has 
haryam  instead  of  apyam,  thus  making  the  meaning  to  be,  "  What  has  any  one 
person  to  do  with  any  other  ?  " 


140  BALI  IS  OUTWITTED  BY  VISHNU  IN  THE 

this  fbrm  abide  within  him.  20.  This  must  not  in  any  way  be  dis- 
closed by  thee  to  any  one,  even  though  thou  art  asked.  The  secrets  of 
the  gods,  0  goddess,  issue  in  good  [only]  when  they  are  kept  con- 
cealed.' 21.  When  the  deity  had  said  so  much,  he  disappeared  on 
the  spot.  Aditi,  having  obtained  the  [boon],  so  hard  to  obtain,  that 
Hari,  the  lord,  should  be  born  of  her,  waited  on  her  husband  with  the 
greatest  devotion,  like  one  who  had  obtained  her  object.  22.  Kasyapa 
with  certain  intuition  understood  by  the  power  of  contemplation  that 
a  portion  of  Hari  had  entered  into  him.  23.  With  contemplative 
mind,  he  impregnated  Aditi  with  the  generatiye  fluid  which  he  had 
accumulated  by  long  austerity,  as  the  wind  forces  fire  into  wood." 

We  have  already  seen  that  Vishnu,  in  his  character  as  one  of  the 
Adityas,.  also,  was  the  son  of  Eaiyapa  and  Aditi  (see  above,  p.  118  ff.). 
The  connexion  with  the  old  legend  is  therefore  preserved  here,  as  well 
as  in  the  story  given  in  the  Bombay  edition  of  the  Kamayana,  above, 
pp.  132  and  134. 

The  eighteenth  section  relates  how  Hari  was  born  of  Aditi,  to  the 
great  delight  of  all  creatures,  and  how  he  then  took  the  form  of  a  dwarf : 

(Sect.  18,  V.  12). Рђћ Yat  tad  vapur  hhdti-vihhushanayudhair  avyakta- 
chid  vyaMam  adharayad  Sarih  |  baihuva  tenaiva  sa  vamano  hatuh  sam- 
paiyator  divya-gatir  yaths,  natah  \  "  With  that  body  which  Hari,  the 
invisible  spirit,  had  assumed,  and  which  was  manifested  by  splendour, 
by  its  ornaments,  and  by  weapons, Рђћ with  that  same  body,  he,  whose 
ways  are  supernatural,  became,  while  [his  parents]  were  looking  on,  a 
dwarfish  Brahmanical  student,  as  an  actor  [changes  his  character]." 

He  afterwards  went  to  attend  the  asvamedha  sacrifices  celebrated  for 
Bali  by  the  Bhrigus  on  the  banks  of  the  river  Narmada."'  Bali 
welcomes  the  young  Brahman  dwarf  with  respect,  offers  him  a  seat, 
and  washes  his  feet.     The  narrative  then  proceeds : 

(Sect.  18,  V.  28  ff.) Рђћ Tat-pada-iaucham  jana-Tcdlmashapaham  sa 
dharma-vid  murdhny  adhat  sumangalam  \  yad  deva-devo  GirUai  chandra- 
mauUr  dadhara  murdhnd  paraya  oha  hhahtyd  |  29.  Balir  uvdeha  \ 
svagatani  te  namas  tulhyam  hrahman  kirn  karmdma  te  \  brahm,arshina& 
tapah  sdhhdd  manye  tv  drya  vapur-dharam  |  :  .  .  .  32.  Yad  yad  bato 
vdnchhmi  tat  pratlcKha  me  tvdm  arthinam  vipra-sutdnutarkaye  \  gdm 

'"  It  is  to  be  noticed  that  the  scene  of  this  sacrifice  is  on  earth,  though  Bali,  as  we 
were  told  above,  had  taken  possession  of  Indra's  heaTen. 


FORM  OF  A  DWARFISH  BRAHMAN  STUDENT.  141 

Mnehanam  gunmad  dMma  mrishtam  tatha  'nna-peyam  uta  vd  vvpra- 
kanyam  \  gramdn  samriddhams  tmragan  gajdn  vd  rathams  tathd  'rhattama 
sampratlchha  \  28.  "Acquainted  with  duty,  he  placed  upon  his  head 
the  auspicious  water  with  which  the  Brahman's  feet  had  been  washed, 
which  removes  the  sins  of  men,  and  which  Griri^a  (S'iva),  the  god  of 
gods,  who  wears  the  moon  for  a  frontal  ornament,  bore  on  his  head, 
with  supreme  devotion.  29.  Bali  said :  '  Welcome  to  thee,  reverence 
to  thee,  Brahman,  what  can  we  do  for  thee  ?  honourable  man,  I  regard 

thee  as  the  visible,  impersonated  austerity  of  Brahman-sages 

32.  Ask  of  me,  student,  whatever  thou  desirest ;  son  of  a  Brahman,  I 
conclude  that  thou  art  a  suppliant;  ask,  most  venerable  youth,  a  cow, 
pure  gold,  an  embellished  house,  food  and  drink,  or  a  Brahman's 
daughter,  flourishing  villages,  horses,  or  elephants,  and  carriages.'  " 

In  section  nineteenth  the  dwarf  answers  Bali  in  a  speech  compli- 
mentary to  himself  and  his  ancestors,  and  craftily,  with  a  hypocritical 
pretence  of  moderation  not  very  creditable  to  a  god,  ends  with  the 
seemingly  modest  demand  of  three  paces  of  ground  : 

(Sect.  19,  V.  16  ff.) Рђћ Tasmdt  tvatto  mahlm  uhad  vrine  'ham  varadoT' 
shabhdt  I  paddni  trlni  daily end/ra  sammitdm  padd  mama  \  17.  Ndnyat 
te  hdmaye  rajam  vadanyaj  jagadlsvardt  \  nainah  prdpnoti  vai  vidvdn 
ydvad-artha-praUgrahah  \  18.  Balir  uvacha  \  Aho  Brdhmana-ddydda 
vSehas  te  vriddha-sammatdh  |  fvam  halo  bdlisa-matih  svdrtham  pra- 
ty  aludho  yathd  \  19.  Mam  vachohMh  samdrddhya  lokdndm  ekam 
tivaram  |  pada-trayam  vriniie  yo  'luddhimdn  dvipa-ddsusham  |  20. 
Na  pumdn  mam  wpraorajya  Ihuyo  ydohitum  arhati  \  taamad  vritti- 
Tca/rim  Ihumim  hato  kamam  pratlohha  me  \  21.  S'rl-lhaga/odn  uvacha  \ 
ydvanto  vishaydh  preshthds  trihhyam  ajitendriyam  \  na  saknuvanti  te 
sm-ve  pratipurayituih  nripa  \    22.  Trihhih  ki^amadr  asantushfo  dvlpendpi 

na  puryate  \  nava-varsha-sametena  saptadvipa-varechhayd  \ 

27.  Tasmdt  trini  paddny  em  wine  tvad  varadanhabhdt  \  etavataiva 
siddho  'ham  vitta'fh  yavat  prayojanam  \  28.  S'uhah  uvdcha  \  ity  uktah 
sa  Jtasann  aha  vanohhitam  pratigrihyatdm  \  vdmanaya  mahlm  ddtum 
jagraha  jala-lhdjanam  \ 

"  "Wherefore  I  ask  from  thee,  the  chief  of  the  bountiful,  a  small  por- 
tion of  ground,  three  paces,  lord  of  the  Daityas,  measured  by  my  step. 
17.  I  desire  nothing  more  from  thee,  the  generous  lord  of  the  world. 
A  wise  man  incurs  no  sin  when  he  asks  [only]  as  much  as  he  needs. 


142  TJS'ANAS  "WARNS  BALI  AGAINST 

18.  Bali  answered :  '  Thy  words,  son  of  a  Braluuan,  are  such,  as  beseem 
an  old  man.  Thou  art  a  youth,  with  the  mind  of  a  stripling,  and  like 
one  ignorant  regarding  his  own  interest.  19.  He  is  not  wise  who,  having 
by  words  reverenced  me,  the  sole  lord  of  the  worlds,  asks  me,  the  bestower 
of  continents,  for  three  paces  of  ground.  20.  It  is  not  fit  that  a  man 
should  come  to  me  and  make  repeated  requests  :  wherefore  freely  ask  me 
for  ground  sufficient  for  thy  subsistence.'  21.  The  deity  replied :  '  All 
the  desirable  objects  in  the  three  worlds  cannot,  0  king,  satisfy  the  man 
whose  senses  are  unsubdued.  22.  He  who  is  not  contented  with  threQ 
paces  of  ground  will  not  be  satiated  even  with  a  continent,  and  its  nine 
divisions  {varshas),  since  he  will  desire  the  gift  of  the  seven  con- 
tinents."' ....  27.  Wherefore  I  desire  from  thee,  who  art  the  chief 
of  the  bountiful,  only  three  paces  of  ground.  "With  so  much  as  suffices 
for  my  maintenance  I  am  complete.'  28.  Being  thus  addressed,  Bali 
said,  smiling,  '  take  what  thou  desirest ; '  and  with  the  view  of  giving 
the  land  to  the  dwarf,  he  took  a  vessel  of  water." 

U^anas,"'  however,  Bali's  priest  and  preceptor,  recognizing  Yishnu 
in  the  dwarf,  and  knowing  the  god's  designs,  here  interposes,  and 
warns  the  monarch  against  granting  the  ground  solicited : 

(Sect.  19,  V.  29  ff.) Рђћ Fishnave  Icskmam  pradasymtam  TJiana  asure- 
ivwram  \  janani  chihlrshitam  Vuhnojf,  sishyam  prdka  vidam  varah  \  30. 
S'ukrdcharr/ah  uvacha  \  Esha  Vairoehane  sakshad  Vhagman  VisJtnw 
avyayah\  Kasyapad  Aditer  jato  devanam  Icarya-sddhakaJi]  31.  Pratisruta'm 
tvayaitasmai  yad  cma/rtliam  ajanatd  \  na  sddhu  manye  daitydndm  mahdn 
vpagato  'nayah  \  32.  Esha  te  sthdnam  aisvaryam  kriyam  tejo  yasah 
irvitam  \  ddsyaty  dchhidya  S'akrdya  mayd-mdnmiaho  Swrih  \  33.  TribMh. 
Ttramair  imdn  lohdn  miva-kdyah  kramishyati  \  sarvasvam  Vishmve  dattvd 
mudha  vartishyase  Icatham  \  34.  Kramata  gdm  padaikena  dvitiyena 
divam  vibhoh  \  Jcham  cha  hdyena  mahatd  tdrtiyasya  huto  gatih  \  35.  JVish- 
thdm  te  narake  manye  hy  apraddtuh  pratUrutam  \  pratiirutasya  yo 
'nliah  pratipddayitum  hhavdn  \  36.  Na  tad  ddnam  praiamsanti  yena 
vrittir  vipadyate  \  ddnafh,  yajnas  tapah  karma  lake  vriftimato  yatah  \  37. 
Bha/rmdya  yaiase  'rthdya  kdmdya  svajandya  cha  \  panehadha  vihhafan 
vittam  ihdmutra  cha  modate  \  38.  Atrdpi  hahvrichair  gitam  sri^u  me 

15'  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  489  fF.  for  au  account  of  these  continents 
and  varshas. 
"s  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  386,  note  66, 


COMPLYING  WITH  THE  DWARF'S  REQUEST.  143 

'mra-sattama  \  satyam  om  iti  yat  proktafh  yarn  nety  aMnritam  hi  tat  \ 
39.  Satyam  pmhpa-phalam  vidyad  atma-vrikshasya  jlvatah  \  vrileshe 
'fivati  tan  na  syad  anritam  mulam  dtmanah  \  40.  Tad  yatha  vrikshah 
unmulah  iushyaty  udoa/rtate  'chirat  \  evafh  nashtanntah  sadyah  dtma 
iushyed  na  samiayah  \  41.  Pardg  riMam  apurnam  vai  aksharam  yat 
tad  "  om  "  iti  |  yat  Icinchid  "  om  "  iti  hruyat  tena  riehyeta  vai  pumdn  \ 
42.  Bhiksha/oe  sarvam  om  kurvan  nalarh  Tcamena  chatmane  \  athaitat 
purnam  ahhydtmam  yach  eha  nety  anritam  vachak  \  43.  Sarvam  nety 
anritam  Iruydt  sa  dushJcirtih  Svasan  mritah  \  strishu  narma-vivdhe  cha 
vritty-arthe  prdna-sankafe  |  go-brdhmandrthe  himsdydm  ndnritam  sydj 
jy,gwpsitam  \ 

29.  "  IJsanas,  chief  of  tte  wise,  knowing  Vishnu's  intention,  thus 
addresses  his  pupil,  the  chief  of  the  Asuras,  who  was  ahout  to  give  the 
earth  to  that  deity :  30.  '  This,  0  son  of  Virochana,  is  manifestly  the 
divine,  undecaying  Vishnu  himself,  born  of  Ka^yapa  and  Aditi,  [to 
be]  the  fulfiUer  of  the  purposes  of  the  gods.  31.  That  ill-advised 
promise  which  thou,  unwittingly,  hast  made  to  him,  is  not,  I  con- 
sider, to  the  advantage  of  the  Daityas ; Рђћ a  great  error  has  been  com- 
mitted. 32.  This  illusory  dwarf,  having  bereft  thee  of  thy  place, 
dominion,  prosperity,  splendour,  renown,  and  sacred  knowledge,  will 
give  them  to  S'akra.  33.  He  whose  body  is  the  universe,  will  traverse 
these  worlds  in  three  strides ;  fool,  where  shalt  thou  abide,  when  thou 
hast  given  all  thy  possessions  to  Vishnu  ?  34.  Where  shall  there  be 
room  for  the  third  pace  of  the  all-pervading  being  when  he  has 
traversed  the  earth  with  one  pace,  the  sky  with  a  second,  and 
[occupied]  the  heaven  with  his  vast  body  ?  35.  I  think  that  thy 
abode  shall  be  in  hell,  when  thou  art  unable  to  give  all  that  thou  hast 
promised,  since  thou  shalt  not  be  master  (so  as  to  bestow  it)  of  what 
thou  hast  engaged  to  give.  36.  Men  do  not  approve  that  gift  by 
which  [the  donor's]  livelihood  is  ruined  :  for  [it  is  understood]  in  the 
world  that  gifts,  sacrifices,  austerities,  ceremonies,  are  only  performed 
by  those  who  have  the  means.  37.  The  man  who  divides  his  pro- 
perty into  five  parts  destined  severally  for  purposes  of  religion,  renown, 
personal  interest,  pleasure  and  family  support,  is  happy  in  this  world 
as  well  as  in  the  next.""    38.  Hear  from  me,  most  excellent  of  the 

'*┬╗  The  drift  of  verses  38  ff.,  whioli  are  founded  upon  a  passage  of  the  Veda  quoted 
by  the  commentator,  is  thus  explained  hy  him :  Nanu  tarhi  pratidrutya  "  na  "  iti 


144      IN  "WHAT  CIECUMSTANCES  A  PEOMISE  IS  NOT  BINDING. 

Asuras,  what  has  been  sung  on  this  subject  by  teachers  of  the  Kigveda : 
to  say  "  yes  "  is  to  be  true  ;  to  say  "  no  "  is  to  be  false.  39.  Know  that 
truth  is  celebrated  as  the  flower  and  fruit  of  that  tree,  one's  self,  while 
it  is  alive;  but  this  cannot  be  the  case  unless  the  tree  lives;  [therefore, 
when  it  tends  to  our  preservation],  falsehood  is  the  root  of  one's  self.   40. 

Jcatham  anritetm  vaehyam  \  tatra  aha,  sardhhaili  shadihih  |  atrapi  satyanrita-vyavas- 
thdyam  hahvricha-srutya hiprathamam  ^^^om^  iti  satyam  'na'  iti  anritam  "  ity  adina 
satyanritayor  laleshana-purvaJeam  stuti-nindabhyam  satyam  vihitam  anritam  eha 
nishiddham  anantaram  cha,  ^^parag  vai  etad  riktam  aksharam  "  ity  adina  satye  doshan 
(mrite  cha  gunan  uktva  "  tasmaf  kale  eva  dadyat  kale  na  dadyaf  tat  satyanrite  mith- 
unlkaroti "  ity  upasamharena  vritti-sankatadishv  anritam  apy  amtjnatam  tarn  imam 
s'ruty-artham  dars'ayann  aha  |  "  But  the  objection  arises,  how,  after  promising,  can  a 
man  say  '  uo,'  and  thus  be  guilty  of  falsehood  ?  To  this  he  replies  in  six  and  a  half 
verses.  Here,  with  a  view  to  fixing  the  rules  regarding  truth  and  falsehood,  after 
having  first  of  aU  stated  the  characteristic  marks  of  each,  according  to  these  words  of 
the  Rigvedic  doctors,  '  "  yea  "  is  truth,  and  "  no  "  is  falsehood,'  etc.,  and  having  by 
praise  and  blame  shown  that  truth  is  enjoined  and  falsehood  forbidden,  he  cites  the 
clause,  'this  word  denotes  removal  and  evacuation,'  etc.,  to  indicate  the  faults  of  truth 
and  the  virtues  of  falsehood ;  and  lastly,  after  quoting  the  words,  '  he  combines  truth 
and  falsehood  by  saying  "let  a  man  give  and  withhold  on  the  proper  occasions,"  '  he 
sums  up  by  deciding  that  falsehood  is  permitted  when  necessary  for  the  sake  of  sub- 
sistence, and  in  straits,  etc.     Propounding  this  doctrine  of  scripture,  he  says,  etc." 

The  words  of  the  passage  here  referred  to,  from  a  Bahvricha-S'ruti  (Rigveda 
Brahmana  or  Upanishad,  which  is  unknown  to  me),  as  quoted  by  the  commentator 
in  his  notes  on  verses  40,  41,  and  42  of  this  passage,  are  as  follows :  "  Om  "  iti  satyam 
"na"  ity  anritam  \  tad  etat pushpam  phalam  vaeho  yat  satyam  |  sa  ha  Is'varo  yasasvi 
kalyana-kirtir  bhavita  \  pushpam  hi  phalam  vachah  satyam  vadati  \  atha  etad  mulam 
vaoho  yad  anritam  \  tad  yatha  vrikshah  mirmulah  smhyaii  sa  udvartate  evam  eva 
anritam  vadann  avirmulam  atmanatn  karoti  sa  sushyati  sa  udvartate  \  tasmad  anritam 
na  vaded  dayela  tv  enena  \  [anena  tv  anritena  "  dayeta  "  sankateshv  atmanam  rakshed 
iti  s'ruty-arthah  \  Comm.]  parcig  vai  etad  riktam  aksharam  yad  etad  "om"  iti  \  tad 
yat  kineha  "  om"  ity  aha  atra  eva  asmai  tad  richyate  \  sa  yat  sarvam  "  om  "  kuryad 
richyad  atmanam  sa  kam^bhyo  nalain  syat  \  Atha  etat  purnam  abhyatmam  yad 
"na"  iti  |  sa  yat  sarvam  "na"  iti  bruyat  papika  'sya  ktrtir  jayeta  \  sa  enam  tatra 
eva  hanyat  |    Tasmat  kale  eva  dadyat  kale  na  dadyat  tat  satyanrite  mithun'karoti  | 

"'Yes'  [am)  is  true,  'no'  is  false.  Truth  is  the  flower,  and  the  fruit,  of  speech.  He 
shall  be  lord,  famous,  of  excellent  renown  ;  for  he  utters  truth,  the  flower,  and  the  fruit, 
of  speech.  Again,  falsehood  is  the  root  of  speech.  Just  as  a  tree,  the  root  of  which 
is  exposed,  dries  up,  and  falls,  so  a  man,  uttering  a  falsehood,  exposes  his  own  roots, 
dries  up,  and  falls.  Wherefore  let  no  man  utter  falsehood,  but  let  him  protect  him- 
self by  it."  [Such  is  the  sense  assigned  to  dayeta  tv  enena  by  the  commentator,  who 
adds  "  in  straits."]  "  This  word,  '  yes,'  denotes  removal  and  emptiness.  Therefore 
by  every  '  yes '  which  is  uttered,  emptiness  is  occasioned.  The  man  who  says  always 
'  yes '  will  empty  himself,  and  not  have  sufiBcient  for  his  wishes.  Again,  the  word 
'  no '  denotes  fulness  in  one's  own  interest.  He  who  says  always  '  no '  will  acquire 
an  evil  reputation,  which  wiU.  straightway  destroy  him.  "Wherefore  he  combines 
truth  and  falsehood  by  [the  rule]  let  a  man  give  and  withhold  at  the  proper  times." 


BALI  DISOBEYS  HIS  PEECEPTOE  AND  IS  CUESED  BY  HIM.    145 

Wherefore,  as  a  tree,  when  uprooted,  dries  up  and  falls,  so  too  we  our- 
selves, if  we  abandon  falsehood,  shall  undoubtedly  become  dried  up. 
41.  The  word  "yes"  denotes  removal,  evacuation,  and  emptiness;  when- 
ever, then,  any  person  says  "yes,"  he  will  be  emptied  out.  42.  By  con- 
tinually saying  "  yes  "  to  an  applicant,  a  man  does  not  retain  enough 
to  satisfy  his  own  desires ;  whilst  a  false  "  no  "  [preserves  our]  full 
[property]  for  ourselves.  43.  The  man  whose  every  "  no"  is  false,  is 
infamous,  and  dead  even  while  he  breathes.  But  falsehood  is  not 
blamable  when  addressed  to  women,  or  in  jest,  or  in  reference  to  a 
marriage,  or  for  subsistence,  or  when  life  is  in  danger,  or  on  behalf  of 
cows  and  Brahmans,  or  when  one  is  exposed  to  violence.'" 

Bali,  however,  refuses  (sect.  20,  vv.  2  ff.)  to  break  his  promise,  what- 
ever consequences  to  himself  may  result.  He  is  thereupon  cursed  by 
his  preceptor  for  his  disobedience : 

(Sect.  20,  vv.  14  ff.) Рђћ Evam  airaddihUam  Hshyam  anadeia-lcaram 
guruh\  sa^apa  d'mva-praMtah  satyasandham  manasvinam  \  15.  "  Dridham 
pandita-many.  ajnah  stdbdho  'sy  asmad-upeTcahaya  \  mach-dKhaaanatigo  ya% 
tvam  achirdd  hhraiyase  iriyah"  |  16.  Evam  saptah  sva-guruna  satyad 
na  chalito  mahdn  \  vamanaya  dadav  endm  architvodaka-purvakam  \  17. 
VindhySvalis  tada  " gatya paim  jdlalca-maUnl'"^  |  aninye  Tiolakam  haimam 
avanejany-apdm^^'' hhritam  \  18.  Yafumdnah  svayarh  tasya  irimat-pdda- 
yugam  muda  \  manijydvahad  murd&ni  tad-apo  visva-pdvanlh  \ 

14.  "  The  preceptor,  impelled  by  fate,  cursed  his  disciple,  thus  devoid 
of  faith  and  disobedient,  yet  wise  and  true  to  his  promise ;  [saying],  15. 
'  Though  thou  regardest  thyself  as  extremely  learned,  thou  art  ignorant 
and  stubborn  in  thy  contempt  of  us :  but  thou  who  transgressest  my 
commandment,  shalt  soon  fall  from  thy  prosperous  state.'  16.  Though 
thus  cursed  by  his  preceptor,  this  great  [monarch],  who  would  not  depart 
from  truth,  gave  this  [earth]  to  the  dwarf,  after  making  an  obeisance  and 
pouring  water  [on  his  hand].  17.  Then  his  wife  Vindhyavali,  wearing 
a  necklace  of  pearls,  approaching,  brought  a  golden  vessel  filled  with 
water  for  ablution.^  18.  Ifext  the  offerer  of  the  sacrifice,  after  himself 
washing  with  delight  the  blessed  feet  [of  the  Brahman],  bore  upon  his 
head  the  world-purifying  water  which  had  been  so  employed." 

This  magnanimous  act  of  Bali  is  applauded  by  the  celestials,  and 

'*'  Jilakam  muktabharana-viieahah  \  Comm. 
'*'  Avanejcmmam  apam  |  Comm. 
VOL.  IV.  10 


146      THE  D"WAEF  EXPANDS  AND  OCCUPIES  THE  UNIVERSE. 

rewarded  by  them  with  a  shower  of  flowers,  and  by  strains  of  music. 
Immediately,  however,  the  body  of  the  dwarf  begins  to  expand : 

(Sect.  20,  V.  21.) Рђћ Tad  vamanam  rupam  ava/rdhatadhhutam  Rarer 
anantasya  guna-trayatmaham  \  hhuh  kham  dUo  dyaur  vivarah  payodhayas 
tiryan-nri-devah  rishayo  yad  asata  \  "  That  dwarfish  body  of  the  infinite 
Hari,  consisting  of  the  three  qualities,  increased  miraculously,  [that 
body]  in  which  were  comprehended  the  earth,  the  air,  the  points  of  the 
compass,  the  sky,  the  abysses,  the  oceans,  brutes,  men,  gods  and  rishis." 

A  further  account  of  this  vast  body,  of  the  effect  which  the  appear- 
ance of  it  produced  on  the  Asuras,  and  other  beings,  is  given  in  verses 
22-32 ;  and  at  length  the  strides  of  the  deity  are  thus  described : 

(Sect.  20,  V.  33.) Рђћ Kshitim padaikena  Baler  viehakrame  nalhah  iari- 
rena  dUascha  hahulhih  \  padam  dvitiyam  kramatas  trivishtapam  na  vai 
tritiyaya  tadiyam  anv  api  \  urukramasyanghrir  upary  upary  atho  mahar- 
janabhydm  tapasah  param  gatah  \  "  He  traversed  the  earth  of  Bali  with 
one  pace ;  and  [occupied]  the  air  with  his  body  and  the  points  of  the 
compass  with  his  arms.  His  second  pace,  as  he  strode,  [fiUed]  the 
heaven ;  and  not  even  the  minutest  fraction  of  it  remained  for  a  third 
pace.  The  foot  of  the  wide-striding  deity  rose  upwards  and  upwards, 
and  then  reached  beyond  the  Mahar-,  Jana-,  and  Tapo-lokas."  "' 

The  gods  assemble  (sect.  21)  to  do  homage  to  Hari  on  his  victory, 
which  they  celebrate  with  great  rejoicing,  and  which  is  proclaimed  by 
the  king  of  the  bears : 

(Sect.  21,  vv.  8  ff.) Рђћ Janibavan  riksha-rajas  tu  hheri-sahdair  mano- 
javah  I  vijayam  dikshu  sarvasu  mahotsavam  aghoshayat  \  9.  Mahim 
swrvam  hritam  drishtva  tri-pada-vydja-ydchnayS.  \  uchuh  sva-hhartur 
asurdh  diksMtasydtyamarsMidh  \  10.  iVa  vai  ayam  hrahma-handhur 
Vishnur  mdydmndm  varah  \  dmija-rupa-pratichhanno  deva-kdryam 
ehikirshati  \  11.  Anena  ydehamdnena  iatrund  latu-rupind  \  sarvasvam 
no  hritam  hhartur  nyastadandasya  varhishi  j  12.  Satya-vratasya  satatam 
dihhitasya  viseshatah  \  ndnritam  bhdshituih  iakyam  hrahmanyasya  dayd- 
vatah  I  13.  Tasmdd  asya  ladhe  dharmo  Ihartuh  iuirushane  cha  nah  \  ity 
dyudhdni  jagrihur  Baler  anucha/rdsurah  |  14.  Te  sarve  vdmanam  hantum 
sula-patfiia-pdnayah,  \  aniohhato  Baleh  rdjan  prddravan  jdtamanyavah  j 

8.  "  Jambavat,  king  of  the  bears,  swift  as  thought,  proclaimed  this 

"3  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Puvana  (p.  48,  note,  and  p.  213  =pp.  98,  vol.  i.,  and  226, 
Tol.  ii.,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  for  an  account  of  these  Lokas. 


BALI  IS  BOUND  AND  REPEOACHED  BY  VISHNU.  U7 

victory,  the  occasion  of  great  festivity,  mth  sorand  of  kettledrums,  ia 
all  the  regions.  9.  Beholding  the  -vp-hole  earth  taken  from  their  master 
Рќаwhen  consecrated  for  sacrifice,  by  an  artful  request  for  three  paces  of 
ground,  the  Asuras,  greatly  incensed,  exclaimed :  10.  '  This  is  certainly 
not  a  petty  Brahman,  but  Vishnu,  the  chief  of  magicians ;  disguised 
under  the  form  of  a  twice-born  man,  he  seeks  to  accomplish  the  pur- 
poses of  the  gods.  11 .  By  this  enemy,  in  the  form  of  a  suppliant  student, 
has  been  taken  all  the  property  of  our  master,  who  had  laid  down  his 
sceptre  on  the  sacrificial  grass.  12.  Untruth  cannot  be  uttered  by  one 
who  is  always  devoted  to  truth Рђћ especially  when  he  is  consecrated, Рђћ 
by  one  who  is  pious  and  compassionate.  13.  Wherefore  it  is  our  duty 
to  slay  him  (the  dwarf),  and  obey  our  master : ' Рђћ so  sajdng,  the  Asuras, 
followers  of  Bali,  seized  their  weapons.  14.  Against  the  wish  of  Bali, 
they  all  ran,  infuriate,  pikes  and  axes  in  hand,  to  slay  the  dwarf."  "* 

This  attack  of  the  Asuras  is,  however,  derided  by  the  followers  of 
Vishnu,  who  kill  some  of  them,  and  they  are  at  length  restrained  by 
Bali,  who  points  out  that  time  and  fate  are  at  present  unfavourable  to 
his  cause.  Bali  is  then  bound  in  the  chains  of  Varuna,  and  reproached 
by  Vishnu  for  failing  to  fulfil  his  promise  : 

(Sect.  21,  V.  26.) Рђћ Atha  Tarkshy-suio  jhStva  Virat  prahhu-oMMrsJd- 
tam  \  lahandha  Varunaih paiair  Bedim  sautye'lmni  krat'au  \  27.  Haha- 
hdro  mahan  dsid  rodasyoU  sa/rvato-dUam  |  grihyamane  'sura-patau 
Vishnuna  praibhavishnuna\  28.  Tarn  haddham  Varunaih  paiair  hhagavan 
aha  vdmanah  \  nashta-sriyam  sthira-prajnam  udara-yasasaih  nripa  \  29. 
Padani  trlni  dattani  Ihiimer  mahyam  tvayS,  'sura  |  dvaihyd^i  krdnta 
mahi  sarva  tritlyam  upaJcalpaya  \  30.  Tdvat  tapaty  asau  gohhir  yd/vad 
Induh  sahodulhih  \  Ydvad  varshati  Parjanyas  tavati  Ihur  iyam  tava  \ 
31.  Padailcena  may  a  hrdnto  hhurloiah  Jcham  diias  tanoh  \  svarlohas  tu 
dvitiyena  paiyatas  te  svam  dtmand  \  32.  Pratisrutam  adatus  te  niraye 
vdsah  ishyate  |  viia  tvam  nirayam  iasmdd  gurund  chdnumoditah  |  33. 
Vrithd  manorathas  tasya  dura-svmrgah  {diwresvargah,  Bombay  ed.)  pataty 
adhah  \  yo  viprdya  pratiirutya  na  tad  arpayate  'rthitam^^^  |  34.   Yipra- 

"*  It  will  b&  observed  that,  here  the  iwarf  is  still  represented  as  haying  that,  shape, 
though  he  had  been  above  described  as  assuming  a  superhuman  form  and  filling  aU 
the  worlds.  Yet  though  he  is  spoken  of  as  a  Brahman  d.warf,  he  is  said  to  have  had 
followers  who  easily  defeated  the  Asuras  of  Bali. 

'*'  The  reading  given  of  this  hue  is  that  of  Burnouf's  edition.  The  Bombay 
edition  has  instead  of  it:  pratidrutasxjadanena  yo  'rthinam-  vipralamihate  I  "who 
'deceives  a  suppliant  by  not  giving  him  what  had  been  promised." 


148  BALI  SENT  TO  THE  INFERNAL  REGIONS. 


laldho  dadamlti  tmyo,  'ha┬Д,  chq^dhya-mdnina  \  tadrvgaum-phafaiif 
^hmhshvOi  mrnyam,  katioUt  fcimcfh  |  26.  "  Then  Virat  (Garuda),  tjie 
son  of  Tarliishya,  knowing  the  purpose  of  the  ],ord,  bound  Bali 
with  the  hpnds  of  Varuna"'  at  the  sacrifice  on  the  day  of  the 
Soma  libatiop,.  27.  A  great  lamentation  arose  in  all  the  quarters 
of  the  two  worlds  (heaven  and  earth),  when  the  Lord  of  the  Asuras 
was  seized  by  the  puissant  Yislinu.  28.  Him  bound  with  the 
bonds  of  Vafun┬Б(,  whose  prosperity  Рќаyras  destroyed,  but  whose,  under- 
standing was  firm,  and  whose  renown  was  vast,  the  divine  dwarf  thus 
addressed :  29.  '  Asura,  three  paces  of  ground  were  given  to  me  by 
thee :  with  two  paces  the  entire  world  has  been  traversed :  find  a  place 
for  the  third.  30.  This  world  of  thine  extends  as  far  as  that  [sun] 
warms  with  his  beams,  as  far  as  the  moon  shines  with  the  stars,  as  far 
as  Parjanya  rains.  31.  With  one  pace  I  traversed  the  region  of  the 
earth,  and  [occupied]  the  air  and  regions  with  my  body;  and  whilst 
thou  wast  looking  on,  I  [traversed,]  the  sky  with  a  second  [pace, 
filling]  thy  possessions  with  myself.  32.  As  thou  hast  not  given  what 
was  promised,  it  is  my  pleasure  that  thou  shalt  dwell  in  the  infernal 
regions ;  enter  therefore  thither,  with  the  approbation  of  thy  preceptor. 
33.  That  man's  desires  are  frustrated,  and  he  falls  downward,  far 
from  heaven,  who,  after  promising  to  a  Brahman,  does  not  deliver  to 
him  what  he  had  solicited.  34.  I  have  been  deluded  by  thee,  thinking 
thyself  wealthy,  when  thou  saidst  "I  give."  Endure  the  infernal 
regions  for  some  yea^s  as  the  penalty  of  that  deceit.'  " 

Bali  answers  ^s  follows,  (sect.  22) : 

(Sect.  22,  V.  2). Рђћ  Yadi/  tittama  -iloka.  hhavdn  mameritam  vaoho  vyallkam 
suravarya  mcmyate  \  karomy  ritam  tad  na  Iha/vet  pralambhanam  pddam 
tritlyam  kuru  Slrshni  me  nijam  |  3.  Bihherm  nahaik  nivayat  pada-ofi.yifto 
na  pasa-hanAMd  vyasanad  dwro-iyayat  \  naivartha-ltrichkr&d  bhavato 
vinigrahat  asddhu-vaddd  bhrisam  udvije  yatha  | 

2.'  "If,  renowned  chief  of  the  gods,  thou  considerest  the  word  which 
I  uttered  to  be  deceitful,  I  now  make  it  good, Рђћ and  here  there  can  be  no 
deception, Рђћ place  thy  third  step  on  my  head.  3.  Fallen  from  my 
position,  I  fear  not  the  infernal  regions,  nor  binding  in  bonds,  nor  mis- 

1"  See  Manu,  viii.  82 ;  ix.  308.  In  E.  V.  vii.  65,  3,  Mitra  and  Vamga  are  said 
to  be  bhuri-pcisav  anritasya  setu  |  "  barriers  against  falsehood,  furnished  with  many 
nooses." Рђћ See  Itoth's  article  on  the  principal  gods  of  the  Arian  nations, "  Journal  of  th? 
German  Oriental  Society,"  vol.  vi.  p.  73,  and  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  57,  65. 


BALI  PRAISED,  AND  HIS  EXALTATION  PROMISED  BY  VISHNU.  149 

fortune  difficult  to  escape,  nor  loss  of  -wealth,  nor  thy  restraint,  so 
touch  as  I  am  afflicted  hy  a  bad  name." 

He  then  goes  on  to  express  his  sense  of  his  coiKjueror's  superiority, 
and  submission  to  his  fate.  He  is  now  visited  and  condoled  by  his 
grandfather  Pi-ahrada.  His  wife  Yindhyavali  nexts  worships  Vishnu ; 
atid  then  Brahma  intercedes  in  behalf  of  the  Asura  monarch.  Vishnu, 
after  making  some  general  reflections,  replies  as  follows : 

(Sect.  22,  T.  2'&).^Esha  danava-daityaMm  agfanih  klrti-vardhamh  \ 
(ydisMd  ajayam  mayam  sidawti  a/pi  na  muhyati  \  29.  Kshina-riktha^ 
eki^tiiaft  sthdndi  kshipto  laMM^cha  iatrulhih  \  jnatihUkha  pcirityaUb 
yatanam  anuyapiiah  ]  30.  GuruHa  bhartsitah  sapto  jnhau  sdtyam  na 
suvratah  \  dhhal'air  ukU  ma0  dhmrmb  [quere  dharmam  f]  nay  am 
tyajdti  satyavdk  \  31.  Esha  me  pi-dpitah  sthanafh  dushprdpam  amarair 
api  I  Savdrrier  4niardS'yd,ydin  Ihmit'endro  mctd-dirayah  |  32.  Tdvat 
mtalam  adhydstdfh  VisWakartna-vinirmitam  \  yaA  nddkayo  vy&dhayaicha 
Mamas  tawd/rd  pardhhcwah  |  HopasOrgdh  nivasatdm  sambha/vanti  mame- 
ehhayd  [ 

28.  "  This  chief  of  the  DatiaV^B  and  Daityas,  and  enhancer  of  their 
renown,  has  conquered  unconquerable  Delusion  :  though  dispirited,  he 
is  not  bewildered.  29.  Having  lost  his  prosperity,  feUeii  from  his  place, 
cast  down  and  bound  by  his  enemies,  abandoned  by  his  relations,  in- 
volved ill  suffering,  30.  reprehended  and  cursed  by  his  preceptor,  still, 
faithful  to  his  obUgatibn,  he  has  not  abandoned  truth.  [Though]  duty 
has  been  inculcated  by  me  in  a  deceitful  fashion,  this  truthful  being 
does  not  swerve  ftoln  it."'  31.  He  has  [therefore]  been  elevated  by  me  to 
a  position  to  which  even  the  immortals  with  dificulty  attain :  he  shaU 
be  the  Indra,  Supported  by  nie,  of  the  Savarni  Manvanttea.  32. 
Meanv^kile  let  hiin  oeJcupy  Siitttla,  formed  by  Vi^vdkariaan,  where,  by 
my  wiU,  neither  hiehtal  nt>r  bddUy  jiainiS,  nor  fatigue,  nor  weariness, 
nor  discotofitm'e,  nbr  diseases  dfflict  the  inhabitants." 

(Sect.  23,  V.  2).i^Bali  replies  thiis :  Aho  pranainaya  kriiah  iamnd- 
i/dmah  prdpama-dhaMdrika-vtidhau  sanidkifah  \  yal  lokapdlais  iviidan'd- 
gHho  'Mrair  UlabMa-puri)o  *0iade  ^s^te  'fpiidh  |  3.  S'Mdh  wvdcka  \ 
ity  uktvd  Hdrim  dnwinyd  JStahmdna^  sd-BkaMarh  taidh  \  .viMia  Sutalam 
prlto  Balir  muktah  sahaswaih  \  2.  '"0,  eVeti  the  effort  iilade  to  adorfe 

'*'  If  we  should  read  dharmam  instead  of  dhankah,  thte  Sense  would  be  ;  "  Though 
deceitfully  addressed  by  me,  he  does  hot  abandon  duty." 


150  US'ANAS  PAYS  HONOUR  TO  VISHNTT, 

thee  succeeds  in  effecting  the  object  of  the  devout  man  who  seeks  thee ; 
seeing  that  thy  favour,  such  as  has  not  been  before  attained  by  the 
immortal  guardians  of  the  worlds,  has  been  bestowed  on  me,  a  de- 
graded Asura.'  S.  Having  thus  spoken,  and  bowed  down  to  Hari, 
to  Brahma,  and  to  Bhava  (S'iva),  Bali,  being  released,  entered  Sutala 
with  joy,  along  with  the  Asuras."  Vishnu  now  addresses  TJ^anas, 
the  priest  of  Bali : 

(Sect.  23,  V.  13). Рђћ AtMho^anasaih  rajan  Harir  Narayano  'ntihe  \ 
dslnam  ritvijam  madhye  sadasi  hrahma-vadinam  \  14.  Brahman  santanu 
sishymya  harma-chhid/raih  vitanvatah  \  yat  tat  karmasu  vaishamyam 
Irahna-dfishiam  samam  hhavet  |  16.  S'uhrah  macha  \  Kutas  tai-karma- 
vaishamyam  yaaya  ha/rmeivaro  Ihwoan  \  yajneio  yajnapwushah  sa/rva- 
hhavena  pujitah  I  16.  Mantratas  tantratai  ehhidram.  desa-MldrJia-vas- 
tutah  I  sarvam  Icaroti  nUchhidram  anusanlcirtanam  tma  \  17.  Tathdpi 
vadato  Ihuman  harishydmy  anusdsanam  |  etach  ohhreyah  pa/ram,  pumsdm 
yat  tavdjndnupdlanam  \  18.  S'ukah  waeha  \  dbhinandya  Sarer  dj'ndm 
Usand  hhagavdn  iti  \  yajna-ehhidram.  mmadhatta  Baler  viprarshilhih 
taha  I  19.  Eoam  Baler  mahlm  rdjan  hMkshitvd  vdmano  Sa/rih  \  dadau 
hhrdtre  Mahendraya  tridivam  yat  par  air  hritam  \  13.  "Hari  Narayana 
then  approaching  Uianas  sitting  among  the  priests,  in  an  assembly  of 
expounders  of  the  Veda,  thus  addressed  him:  14.  'Brahman,  rectify 
the  irregularities  of  thy  pupil  in  performing  the  ceremonial :  whatever 
fault  there  is  in  any  rite  is  removed  if  it  be  seen  by  a  Brahman.'  15. 
S'ukra  (Usanas)  replied :  '  How  can  there  be  any  irregularity  in  that 
ceremony  of  which  thou  art  the  lord,  the  lord  of  sacrifice,  the  sacrificial 
Man,  adored  in  every  aspect?  16.  "Whatever  defects  there  may  be 
in  respect  of  texts,  of  order,  of  place,  of  time,  of  persons,  or  of 
-materials, Рђћ the  mere  celebration  of  thee  obliterates  them  all.  17. 
Nevertheless,  great  being,  I  shall  fulfil  the  injunction  which  thou 
utterest :  this  is  the  highest  happiness  of  men,  to  obey  thy  commands,' 
18.  Having  assented  to  the  order  of  Hari,  the  divine  TJsanas,  with  the 
Brahman-rishis,  rectified  the  irregularities  of  Bali's  sacrifice.  19. 
Having  in  this  manner  begged  the  earth  from  Bali,  the  dwarf  Hari 
gave  [back]  to  his  brother  Mahendra"'  the  heaven  which  had  been 
taken  from  him  by  his  enemies." 

"'  Vishnu  is  called  Upendra  (the  inferior  or  younger  Indra),  the  brother  of  Ma- 
iendra,  the  great  Indra, Рђћ See  above,  p.  133,  line  6  from  the  bottom. 


EEFEEENCES  TO  THE  HAEIVA&S'A,  AGNI  AND  MATSTA  PUEANAS.  1 5 1 

Though,  the  whole  tenor  of  this  legend,  and,  indeed,  of  the  entire 
Bhagavata  Purana,  represents  Yishnu,  of  whom  the  dwarf  was  an 
incarnation,  as  the  supreme  deity,  it  is  now  rather  strangely  said  that 
Brahma  and  the  other  deities  made  the  dwarf  governor  of  all  things : 

(Sect.  23,  V.  20). Рђћ Prajapati-patir  Brahma  devarsM-pitri-hhumipaih\ 
Bahsha-Bhrigv-Angiro-muhhyaih  Kumdrena  Bhavena  oha  \  21.  Kakya- 
pasyaditeh  prityai  mrva-hhuta-bhavaya  ohd  \  lolcanam  loka-palanam 
oka/rod  vdmanam  patim  \  22.  Vedandfh  sarva-devdndm  dha/rmasya  yaiasah 
iriyah  \  mangaldndfh  vratdndneha  kalpam  svargdpavargayoh]  23.  Upen- 
dram  halpaydnohakre  patim  sarva-vibhutaye  \  tada  sarvdni  Ihutdni 
Ihriiam  mwrnudwe  nripa  \  20.  "  Brahma,  the  lord  of  the  Prajapatis, 
together  with  the  gods,  rishis,  pitris,  with  Daksha,  Bhrigu,  Angiras, 
and  other  lords  of  the  earth,  with  Kumara,  and  Bhava,  21.  with  a 
view  to  the  gratification  of  Ka^yapa  and  Aditi,  and  the  good  of  all 
creatures,  made  the  Dwarf  master  of  the  worlds  and  of  the  guardians 
of  the  worlds.  22,  23.  He  made  TJpendra  (Vishnu)  master  of  the 
Vedas,  of  all  the  gods,  of  righteousness,  renown,  prosperity,  blessings, 
and  ceremonies,  and  lord  of  heaven  and  final  liberation,  in  order  that 
he  might  have  command  of  all  things.  Then  all  creatures  rejoiced 
exceedingly." 

The  section  concludes  with  the  verse  I  have  already  quoted  above 
(p.  72)  in  glorification  of  Vishnu,  followed  by  a  statement  of  the 
benefits  resulting  from  hearing  the  story  of  the  Dwarf  incarnation. 

This  incarnation  is  also  briefly  related  in  the  Agni  Purana,  iv.  58-11, 
and  is  either  referred  to,  or  narrated  more  or  less  diffusely,  in  the 
Harivamsa,  verses  2725;  4159;  4166;  12195-12204;  and  12900- 
14390.  In  the  last-mentioned  verses  the  story  is  told  at  length,  with 
the  various  conflicts  between  the  gods  and  Asuras  by  which  it  had 
been  preceded.  The  incarnation  itself  and  its  results  are  related  in 
vv.  14089-14390.  Sections  231-233  of  the  Matsya  Purana  are  de- 
voted to  the  same  subject."'  I  give  an  abstract  of  the  47th  section,  in 
which  Vishnu's  incarnations  are  enumerated.""  It  is  here  stated  that 
it  was  in  consequence  of  a  curse  pronounced  by  Bhrigu  (as  we  shall 

"9  See  Prof.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  42*.  The  Matsya  Purana  has  been  litho- 
graphed and  published  at  Bombay,  with  a  Mahratti  explanation ;  but  the  portion 
containing  the  sections  in  question  has  not  yet  reached  me. 

"┬╗  In  Terse  9  it  is  said  that  Kas'yapa  was  a  portion  of  Brahma,  and  Aditi  of  the 
Earth  {Brahmanah  Kas'yapas  tv  amiah  Prithivyas  tv  Aditis  tatha). 


152  ABSTEACT  OF  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

see  further  on)  that  Vishnu  assumed  most  of  these  forms  (v.  37). 
There  were  twelve  conflicts  between  the  gods  and  Asuras  (w.  39-52). 
It  is  related  (vv.  58  ff.)  that  on  one  occasion  when  Prahrada  had  been 
overcome,  and  Indra  had  gained  the  empire  of  the  three  worlds, 
S'ukra,  the  priest  of  the  Asuras,  left  them  and  went  to  the  gods.'Рёб' 
They,  however,  entreated  him  not  to  desert  them,  when  he  reassured 
them  by  the  promise  of  his  support  (vv.  60  ff.).  They  were  never- 
theless attacked  by  the  gods,  and  again  resorted  to  S'ukra ;  when  their 
assailants  left  them.  S'ukra  then  referred  to  their  former  discomfitures, 
counselled  them  to  wait  for  a  favourable  turn  of  fortune,  and  declared 
his  intention  to  resort  to  Mahadeva  and  obtain  certain  sacred  texts 
which  would  insure  their  victory  (vv.  66  ff.).  They  then  promised  to 
the  gods  to  desist  from  hostilities  and  betake  themselves  to  austerities 
(vv.  73  ff.).  S'ukra  accordingly  went  to  Mahadeva  and  asked  for 
texts  more  powerful  than  those  possessed  by  Brihaspati,  the  priest  of 
the  gods;  when  the  deity  directed  him  to  perform  a  painful  rite, 
imbibing  the  smoke  of  chaff  {kam-dhuma)  '*'  with  his  head  downward 
for  a  thousand  years.  This  he  agreed  to  do  (vv.  78  ff.).  Hearing  of 
this,  and  taking  advantage  of  the  defenceless  state  of  the  Asuras,  the 
gods  went  to  attack  them.  The  Asuras  remonstrated,  and  in  the 
absence  of  S'ukra,  resorted  to  his  mother  for  help,  and  were  reassured 
by  her  (vv.  83  ff.).  The  gods,  however,  followed,  and  assailed  them, 
when  the  goddess  (S'ukra's  mother Рђћ her  name  is  not  given),  by  her 
magical  power,  rendered  Indra  helpless,  and  then  the  other  gods  took 
to  flight  (w.  91  ff.).  Vishnu,  however,  now  interposed,  and  desired 
Indra  to  enter  into  him  (Vishnu).  This  provoked  the  goddess,  who 
threatened  to  bum  them  up.  Indra  called  upon  Vishnu  to  slay  her 
before  she  could  carry  her  threat  into  effect.  Vishnu,  though  hesi- 
tating to  kill  a  female,  cut  off  her  head  with  his  weapon  (vv.  95  ff.). 
Vishnu  was  hereupon  doomed  by  a  curse  of  S'ukra  to  be  born  seven 
times  in  the  world  of  men ;  and  in  consequence  of  this  he  appears  for 

150*  Compare  Tandya  Mahatrahmana,  Tii.  5,  20 :  Wana  vai  Kavyo  'suranam 
purohitah  aait  |  tarn  devah  hamadughabhir  {kama-dugdhabhir  gobhih  |  Comm.)  upa- 
mantrayanta  |  tasmai  etany  auscmani  prayaehhan  \  kamadughah  vai  ausanani  | 
"  Us'anas  Eavya  was  the  priest  of  the  Asuras.  The  gods  invited  him  with  milch 
cows.    They  gave  him  these  Au^ana  texts.    Au^ana  texts  are  milch  cows." 

"'  I  have  to  thank  Prof.  Aufreoht  for  pointing  out  an  explanation  of  this  phrase 
given  by  the  commentator  on  the  'Kail  Khanda  of  the  Skanda  Pur.  16,  2,  viz. 
Kanalf  khanditas  tandulaiushas  tajjanyam  dhumam  | 


FORTY-SEVENTH  SECTION  OF  THE  MATSTA  PtJEANA.      153 

the  good  of  the  world  when  unrighteousness  prevails:"'  (vv.  102 
ta'ffi  drishpa  stri-badham  ghoram  chuhrodha  Bhrigur  livarah  \  tato 
'bhiSapto  Bhrigma  Vishnw  bkdrya-badhe  tada  \  103  |  yasmat  tejanato 
dha/rmam  abadhyd  stri  nishudita  \  tasmai  tvam  sa/ptakritveha  manusheshu- 
papatsyasi  \  104  |  tatas  tmabhi^apeHa  nashte  dharme  punah  pundh  \ 
lohasya  cha  hitdrthaya  jay  ate  manUsheshv  iha).  S'ukra  then  sprinkled 
his  mother  with  -water,  and  restored  her  to  life,  an  act  and  result 
Рќаwhich  were  applauded  by  all  creatures  (vv.  105  ff.).  Indra  now,  with 
the  intention  of  counteracting  S'ukra's  austerities,  sent  his  daughter 
JayantI  to  the  saint  to  wait  upon  and  soothe  him  by  her  assiduous 
and  affectionate  attentions  and  services,  till  the  conclusion  of  his 
painful  performances  (vv.  Ill  ff.).  She  found  him  in  the  act  of  being 
thrown  down  into  the  pit  of  fire  by  the  Yaksha  who  had  prepared  it, 
and  drinking  in  the  smoke  of  the  dhaff,  with  his  head  downward,  and 
though  enfeebled,  yet  tranquilly  meditating  on  the  form  of  Mahadeva 
(vv.  116  ff.  ta'ih  drishtvd  tu  pibantam  sa  kanadhumam  cmdnmuTcham  \ 
yakshena  pdtyamdnam  cha  kunda-dhdrena  pdtitam  \  druhtvd  cha  tarn 
pdtyamdnam  devl  Kavyam  miadMtam  \  svarvLpa-dhydna-^dmyantam 
dwhalam  bhutim  dsthitam)  ;  lauded  him  with  endearing  language,  and 
rubbed  his  limbs  with  her  gentle  touch  (v.  118).  At  the  conclusion 
of  his  austere  rite,  continued  for  a  thousand  years,  Mahadeva  applauded 
him  as  the  only  person  who  had  ever  performed  it ;  and  granted  him  a 
variety  of  boons,  including  superiority  to  the  gods.  S'ukra  lauded  the 
god  in  a  hymn  of  41  stanzas,  consisting  of  an  enumeration  of  his 
attributes  (vv.  119  ff.).  Mahadeva,  gratified,  touched  the  saint  with 
his  hand,  granted  him  a  vision  of  his  form,  and  then  disappeared 
(v.  167).     S'ukra  then  noticed  JayantI  standing  beside  him,  expressed 

162  I  have  not  elsewhere  met  Tpith  an  explanation  of  Vishnu's  incarnations  so  dis- 
honourahle  to  the  god.  Yet  even  here  he  is  said  to  be  born  for  the  good  of  mankind 
when  righteousness  has  declined,  with  a  view  to  its  restoration Рђћ a  singular  result  of 
a  curse !  Compare  the  passage  from  the  Bhagavadgita  given  above,  p.  53,  and  vv.  7 
and  8  of  the  4th  sect,  of  the  same  work :  Yada  i/ada  hi  dhormaiya  glanir  khmati 
Sharata  \  abhyuitthmtim  adharmasyd  tadd  "tmanmh  srijamy  dhccm  \  paritrBnSya 
sadhunam  mriasaya  cha  dushhritam  \  dharma-samathapanartKaya  sUmbhavami  ytiye 
yuge  \  "  Whenever  righteousness  declines,  and  unrighteousness  arises,  then  I  create 
myself.  For  the  deliverance  of  the  good  and  the  destruction  of  the  wicked,  I  am 
horn  in  every  Yuga."  See  ako  the  32nd  verse  of  the  hymfl  to  Vishnu  In  the  10th 
Canto  of  the  Eaghuvams'a :  Anmaptam  avaptmyam  na  te  kinehana  vidyate  \  loJea- 
nugrahah  evaiko  hetus  te  janma-karmanoh  \  "Thou  hast  nothing  unobtained  to 
obtain.    Kindness  to  men  is  the  only  cause  of  thy  birth  aiid  oi  thy  aotion." 


154  CONTINUATION  OP  ABSTRACT  OF  THE 

timself  gratified  by  her  devoted  attentions,  asked  her  what  she  wished, 
and  promised  to  bestow  it.  She  replied  that  he,  in  virtue  of  his 
transcendent  knowledge,  should  know  what  she  wished.  Her  desire 
was,  he  said,  to  live  in  his  company  for  ten  years.  This  he  granted, 
and  took  her  home  and  married  her.  They  lived  together,  rendered 
invisible  to  all  eyes  by  his  magical  power,  for  ten  years  (vv.  168  ff.). 
The  Asuras,  however,  learning  the  success  of  their  preceptor's  aus- 
terities, came  to  his  abode,  but  failed  to  see  him.  Brihaspati,  the 
preceptor  of  the  gods,  knowing  that  S'ukra  would  be  occupied  with 
Jayanti  for  ten  years,  at  the  instigation  of  Indra,  took  advantage  of 
this  circumstance  to  assume  his  form,  and  summoning  the  Asuras, 
passed  himself  off  to  them  as  their  spiritual  guide,  and  offered  to  act 
as  their  teacher,  an  offer  which  they  gladly  accepted  (vv.  177  ff.).  As 
the  fruit  of  S'ukra's  ten  years'  cohabitation  with  Jayanti,  a  daughter, 
Devayani,  was  born.  S'ukra  then  resolved  to  visit  his  pupils,  and  in- 
formed Jayanti  of  this  intention,  the  fulfilment  of  which  she  admitted 
to  be  a  duty,  and  said  she  would  not  stand  in  the  way  of  its  perform- 
ance. He  accordingly  went  and  found  that  the  Asuras  had  been 
deluded  by  Brihaspati,  who  had  assumed  his  (S'ukra's)  form.  He  told 
them  that  he  was  S'ukra;  and  when  they  were  bewildered  by  the 
sight  of  the  two  sages  identical  in  appearance,  he  repeated  that  he 
was  their  genuine  preceptor,  and  that  the  other  was  Brihaspati,  and 
demanded  that  they  should  forsake  the  latter,  and  follow  him.  They, 
however,  were  unable  to  distinguish  between  the  two ;  and  Brihaspati 
asseverated  that  he  was  the  genuine  S'ukra,  and  that  the  other  was 
Brihaspati.  The  Asuras,  considering  that  the  person  who  had  taught 
them  for  ten  years  was  their  real  preceptor,  made  obeisance  to  him, 
and  angrily  rejected  the  claim  of  S'ukra  to  be  their  Guru.  They  were 
in  consequence  doomed  by  the  curse  of  the  incensed  sage  (S'ukra)  to 
lose  their  senses  and  incur  defeat  (vv.  183  ff.).  Satisfied  with  this 
result,  Brihaspati  reassumed  his  ovra  proper  form,  and  disappeared. 
Seeing  that  they  had  been  deluded,  the  Asuras,  headed  by  Prahrada, 
followed  S'ukra,  and  appeared  before  him  with  downcast  looks. 
Though  at  first  angry,  he  was  at  length  pacified  by  their  entreaties, 
reassured  them  by  saying  that  they  would  regain  their  senses  and 
gain  one  victory  over  the  gods,  though  after  that  they  should  have 
to  descend  to  the  infernal  regions,  the  period  of  their  dominion  de- 


FOETY-SEVENTH  SECTION  OF  THE  MATSTA  PUEANA.       155 

dared  by  Brahma  having  then  expired.  In  the  Savar^ii  Manvantara, 
however,  they  were  destined  to  regain  supremacy,  and  Bali,  grandson 
of  Prahrada,  would  become  lord  of  the  worlds.  Another  boon  was 
destined  for  Prahrada,  which  Brahma  had  forbidden  S'ukra  to  reveal 
(vv.  201  flf.).  Elated  by  this  prediction  of  their  future  ascendancy, 
the  Asuras  desired  to  anticipate  the  time  of  its  realization,  and 
challenged  the  gods  to  battle.  A  combat  ensued,  which  lasted  for 
a  thousand  years,  at  the  end  of  which  the  Asuras  were  victorious. 
The  gods  then  took  counsel  together,  and  invited  S'anda  and  Marka  "' 
(who  are  mentioned  in  verse  39,  and  appear  to  be  the  pupils 
of  Brihaspati  alluded  to  in  v.  221)  to  abandon  the  Asuras,  and  aid 
them  (the  gods)  in  their  sacrifice.  If  they  succeeded  in  obtaining 
this  aid,  they  were  confident  they  should  overcome  the  Asuras.  S'anda 
and  Marka  accepted  the  invitation,  and  the  gods  conquered  the  Asuras ; 
who,  being  forsaken  by  these  two  priests,  and  undergoing  the  con- 
sequences of  S'ukra's  curse,  were  expelled  by  their  adversaries  from 
the  upper  world,  and  entered  the  infernal  regions  [226.  Yajnenopah- 
vayamas  tau  tato  jeshyamahe  'auran  \  tadopamantrayan  devah  S'an^a- 
marlcau  tu  tdv  ulhau  \  227.  yaj'ne  chdhuya  tau  prohtau  "  tyajetam 
asurdn  ivyau  \  vayam  yuvam  hhajishyamah  sdhajitvd  tu  dancman"  |  228. 
evam  kritabhisandhl  tau  S'andamarTcau  suras  tatha  \  tato  devah  jayam 
prapm  danavai  cha  parajitah  |  229.  S'anddmarka-parityaMah  ddnaodh 
hy  abalds  tathd  \  evam  daitydh  purd  Kdvya-idpenalhihatds  tadd  |  230. 
Kavya-sdp&bJiibhutds  te  nirddharai  cha  sarvaiah  \  nirasyamdndh  devaii 
cha  vivisus  te  rasdtatam  \  ]  (vv.  223  ff.).  In  consequence  of  S'ukra's 
curse,  which  operated  periodically,  Vishnu  was  born  time  after  time, 
(see  above,  p.  152),  after  a  decline  of  righteousness,  which  he  re-estab- 
lished, destroying  the  Asuras.  For  Brahma  had  decreed  that  all  those 
Asuras  who  should  be  disobedient  to  Prahrada'**  should  be  slain  by 
men  (231,  iata^-prahhriti  ddpena  Bhrigor  naimittikena  tu  \  232.  jajne 
punah  punar  Vishnur  dharme  prasithile  prahhuh  |  hu/rvan  dharma- 
vyavasthdnam  asurdndm  pranaianam  \  233.  Prahradasya  nideh  tu 
na  sthdsyanty  asurdk  cha  ye  \  manushya-badhyds  te  sarve  Brahmeti  vyd- 
ha/rat  prabhuh  \      Vishnu's  incarnations  are  then  enumerated  (verses 

153  gee  the  fifth,  volume  of  this  work,  p.  230,  note. 

"*  Eegarding  Prahrada,  or  Prahlada,  see  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  ed., 
vol.  ii.,  pp.  30-68, 


156  QUOTATION  FROM  THE  SEVENTH 

234-245)  viz.  (1)  a  portion  of  him  sprung  from  Dharina,  (2)  the  Nara- 
sinha,  or  Man-lion,  and  (3)  the  Dwarf,  incarnations,  -which  are  called 
the  celestial  nianifestations,  thfe  remaining  seven  being  the  human 
incarnations  caused  by  S'ukra's  curse  (v.  238.  Mas  tisrah  smritds  tasya 
divyah  sanibhutayo  dvijah  \  mdmahah  sapta  yanyas  (sic.)  tu  sapajai 
tdh  nihodhata).  These  seren  are  (4)  the  Dattatreya,  (5)  Mandhatri, 
(6)  Para^urama,  (7)  Kama,  (8)  Vedavyasa,  (9)  Buddha,  (10)  Kalki, 
incarnations.  (Eight  instead  of  seven  are  obtained  if,  Рќаwith  the  Mahratti 
expounder,  we  understand  the  beginning  of  verse  243  to  refer  to 
Krishna.)  The  Bhagavata  Purana  gives  twenty-two  incarnations 
(i.  3,  1  ff.)  viz. :  Those  in  the  foi:ms  of  (1)  Purusha,  (2)  Varaha  or 
the  Boar,  (3)  Karada,  (4)  Nara  and  Narayana,  (5)  Kapila,  (6)  Datta- 
treya, (7)  Tajiia  of  SacrifioBj  (8)  Bisha;bha,  (9)  Prithu,  (10)  Matsya 
or  the  Fish,  (11)  Kiinna  or  <ihe  TortoiSej  (12  and  13),  Dhanvantari, 
(14)  Narasinha  or  the  Man-lion,  (15)  Yataana  or  the  Dwarf,  (16) 
Parasurama,  (17)  Vedavyasa,  (18)  Eama,  (19  and  20)  Balarama  and 
Krishna,  (21)  Buddha,  and  (22)  Kalki.  These  last  two  are  represented 
as  future.  But  the  incarnations  of  Vishnu  are  innumerable,  like  the 
rivulets  flowing  from  an  inexhaustible  lake.  Rishis,  Manus,  gods, 
sons  of  Manus,  Prajapatis  are  all  portions  of  him  (verse  26.  Amtarah 
hy  asanMeydh  Hareh  sattva-nidker  dvijdh  \  yaths  'viddsinah  kuh/dh 
sm'asah  sytih  sahasraiah  |  27.  rishayi)  manavo  devah  manvrputrdh 
mahaujasah  \  kaldh  sarve  Harer  eva  saprc^'dpatayas  tathd). 

Sect.  Y.-^^Ftshnu  as  represented  in  the  NiruMa,  Rdmdyam, 
Mahdbhdratit,  und  Pmdnas, 

From  the  passages  adduced  in  the  preceding  pages,  it  is  clear  that 
Vishnu  is  not  regarded  as  the  supreine  god  either  in  the  Eig-Veda,  or 
in  the  Brahmanas.  In  these  ahcient  works  he  is  considered  only  as 
one  of  the  gods,  and  not  as  superior  to  the  rest.  It  is  also  manifest 
from  the  passage  I  have  cited  from  the  Nirukta  (┬▒ii.  1&)  in  p.  64  that 
neither  Y^ka  himself,  nor  S'akapuni  and  Aurnavabha,  the  ancient 
interpreters  of  the  Veda,  whoSe  opinions  he  quotes,  assigned  to  Vishnu 
any  higher  rank  than  they  did  to  the  other  members  of  the  Indian 
Pantheon.  From  another  text  of  the  Nirukta  (vii.  5)  which  I  have 
cited  in  p.  66,  in  appears  that  the  old  expounders  of  the  Veda  regarded 
the  deities  worshipped  in  the  Veda  as  mainly  represented  by  three  gods 


SECTION  OF  THE  NIEUKTA.  157 

of  primary  consequence,  and  that  of  these  Vishnu  is  not  one.  As  the 
passage  from  which  this  latter  extract  was  made  is  of  great  interest 
and  importance,  I  shall  quote  it  here  at  length : 

Nir.  7,  4. Рђћ Tad  ye  'ndduhfa-^evatdh  mantras  teshu  devatopapariJcshd  \ 
yad-devataj}  sa  yajno  va  y<yn&ngam  vd  tad-devatdh  hhavanU  \  atha  qmyai/na 
yajndt  prdjdpatydh  iti  ydjnikdh  \  ndrdsamsdh  iU  nairuMdh  \  api  vd  sa 
Mma-devatd  sydt.  prdyo-davnid  vd  \  asti  hy  dchdro  hihdafh.  lohe  deva- 
devatyam  atithi-devatyam  pitri-devatyam  j  ydj'na-dmvato  mantrap  iti  \ 
api  Jiy  adevatdh  damtd-vat  stuyante  \  yathd.  ' iva-pralhritiny  oshadhi- 
paryantdny  athdpy  ashtau  dvandvdni  \  sa  na  many&ta  agantun  iva  arthdn 
devatdndm  pratya/csJia-dri^yam  etad  Ihcmati  \  mahdhhdyydd  devatdydb 
elcah  dtmd  lahudhd  stuyate  \  eka&ya  dtmano  'nye  devdh  pratyangani 
Ihmanti  \  api  cha  sattvdndm  prakriti-hhumahhir  rishayah  stuvanti  ity 
dhuT}.  I  prdkriti-sdrvandmnydch  aha  itaretara-janrndno  ihavanti  itaretara' 
prakritayaT}  karma-jimmdmh  dtma-janmdnah  \  atmd  eva  eshdm  ratho 
hhavaty  dtmd  'ivdh  dtmd  "yudham  dtmd  ishavah  dtmd  sarvam  devasya  \ 
5.  Tisrah  eva  devatd^  iti  nairuktdT},  Agnil}  pritMvi-sthdno  Vdyur  vd 
Indro  vd  'ntarikshg-sthdnah  Suryo  dyu-sihdnah  \  fdsdm  mahdhhdgydd 
ehaihasydh  api  bahUni  ndmadheydni  bhavanti  \  api  vd  karma-prithahtvad 
yathd  hotd  'dhvmywr  hrahmd  udgatd  ity  apy  ekasya  satah  |  apt  vd 
prithag  eva  syuh  \  prithag  hi  stutayo  bhavanti  tathd  'bhidhdndni  j  yatho 
etat-" karma-pfithahtvdd"  iti  hahavo  'pi  vibhajya  karmdni  kiiryuh  \  tatra 
samsthdnaikatva^  sambhogaikatva'ffi  cha  upekshitavyam  \  yathd  prithivydm 
manushyd^  paiwon  devdh  iti  sthdnaikatvam  \  sambhogaikatvam  cha  drisyate 
yathd  prithivydh  Parjanyena  cha  Tdyv-Adipydbhydm  eha  sambhogo  'gninff, 
cha  itd/rasya  lokasya  \  tatra  etad  nara-rdshtram  iva  \  6.  Atha  dkdror 
ohintanam  devatdndm  \  purusha-vidhdh  syur  ity  ekam  \  chctandva^-vad 
hi  stutayo  bhavanti  tathd  'bhidhdndni  \  athdpi paitrusha-vidhikair  angaih 
samstuyante  |  "rishvd  te  Indra  sfhmiffasya  bdhu"  (R.  Y.  yi.  47,  8); 
"yat  sangribhnah  magha/ixm  kdSir  it  te"  (R.  Y.  iii.  30,  5)  |  athmpi 
pawusha-vidhikain  droKya-samyogaih  \  "d  dvabhydih,  ha/ribhyum  Indrq, 
ydhi"  (R.  V.  ii.  18,  4);  '^kalydnir  jdyd  swanafn  grihe  te"  (R.  Y. 
iii.  53,  6)  athdpi  pavrusha-vidhikaih  ka/rmabhih  \  "  addhi  Indra  piba.  cha 
prasthitasya"  (R.  Y.  x.  116,  2);  "dsrutkarna  irudhi  havam"  (R.  Y. 
i.  10,  9)  I  7.  Apm-mha-vidhdh,  syur  ity  aparam  \  api  tu  yad  driiyate 
'purusha-vidham,  tat  \  yathd  'gnir  vdyur  ddityah  pritMvt  ehandramdh 
iti  I  yatho  etat  " chetandvaid-vad  hi  stutayo  bhavanti"  ity  aohetanany 


158  CONTINUATION  OF  THE  QUOTATION  FEOM  THE 

apy  evam  stuyante  yatha  'hha-prahhritmy  oshadM-parymtani  \  yafho 
etat  " pattrusha-vidhikair  anffaih  samstuyante"  ity  achefcmeski)  apy  etad 
hhavati  \  "  ahhi  hrandanti  haritelhir  asabhir "  iti  grava-stutih  \  yatho 
etat  "  paurusha-vidhileair  dravfa-samyogair"  ity  etad  api  tadriiam  eva  \ 
'Рќа' suhham  ratha&  yuyvje  sindkur  asvinam"  iti  nadi-stwtih  \  yatho  etat 
"  paurusha-vidhikaih  harmalMr"  ity  etad  api  tadrisam  eva  |  "hotuS  chit 
purve  havir  adyam  asata  "  iti  grdva-stutir  eva  \  api  cha  ubhaya-vidhdh 
syuh  I  api  vd  purusha-mdhdndm  eva  satdm  harmatmdnah  ete  syuh  |  yathd 
yajno  yajamdnasya  \  esha  cha  dhhydna-samayah  |  8.  Tisrah  eva  devatdh 
ity  ulctam  pv/rastdt  |  tasdm  bhaJdi-sdhacharyaM  vydhhydsydmah  \  alha 
etdny  Agni-bhaktiny  ayam  loJcah  prdtah-savanaih  vasanto  gdyatri  trivrit- 
stomo  rathantaram  sama  ye  cha  deva-gandh  samdmndtdh  prathame  stham 
'gnayl  prithivl  ild  iti  striyah  \  atha  asya  harma  vahanam  cha  ha/oiahdm 
dvahanam  cha  devatandm  yach  cha  hinchid  ddrshti-vishayikam  Agni- 
karma  eva  tat  \  atha  asya  samstavihdh  devdh  Indrah  Soma  Varumh 
Pa/rjanyah  ritavah  \  Agnd-Faishnavam  ?tavir  na  tu  rik  samstaviM 
dasatayzshu  vidyate  \  atha  apy  Agnd-Paushnam  havir  na  tu  samstavah  \ 
tatra  etdm  vibhaMi-stutim  rieham  uddharanti  (R.  Y.x.  17,  3)  9.  "Pushd 
tvd  itai  chyavayatu  pra  vidvdn  anashtapaiur  bhuvanasya  gopdh  \  sa  tvd 
etehhyah  pwridadat  pitrihhyo  Agnir  devebhyah  suvidatriyebhyah"  \ 
"Pushd  tvd  itah prachydvayatu vidvdn anashtapa^ur  bhwanasya gopdh" 
ity  esha  hi  sarveshdm  bhutdndm  gopdyitd  Adityah  \  "  sa  tvd  etebhyah 
pari  dadat  pitribhyah"  iti  sdfhsdyikas  tritlyah  pddah  \  Pushd  pwastdt 
tasya  anvddekah  ity  ekam  Agnir  uparishtdt  tasya  praMrtand  ity 
aparam  \  "Agnir  devebhyah  suvidatriyebhyah"  |  suvidatram  dhanam 
bhaoati  vindaier  vd  ekopasargdd  daddter  vd  sydd  dvyupasa/rgdt  \  10. 
Atha  etdni  Indra-bhaktiny  antariksha-loko  mddhyandinam  savanam 
grlshmas  trish{up  panehada^a-stomo  brihat-sdma  ye  cha  deva-gandh 
samdmndtdh  madhyame  sthdne  ydscha  striyah  |  atha  asya  karma  rasd- 
nupradanam  Vritra-vadho  yd  cha  kd  cha  bala-kritir  Indra-karma  eva  tat  \ 
atha  asya  samstavikdh  devdh  Agnih  Soma  Varunah  Pushd  Brihaspatir 
Brahmanaspatih  Parvatah  Kutso  Yishnur  Vdyuh  \  atha  api  Mitro 
Varunena  samstuyate  \  Pushnd  Rud/rena  cha  Somah  \  Agnind  cha  Pushd  \ 
Vdtena  cha  Parjanyah  |  11.  Atha  etdny  Aditya-bhaktmy  asau  hkas 
tritiya-saioanam  varshdh  jagati  saptadaia-stomo  vairupam  sdma  ye  cha 
deva-gandh  samdmndtdh  uttame  sthdne  ydscha  striyah  |  atha  asya  ka/rma 
rasdddnam  raimibhii  cha  rasddharanam  yach  cha  kinehit  pravalhitam 


SEVENTH  SECTION  OP  THE  NIETTKTA.  159 

Aditya-harma  eva  tat  \  Chandramasa  VSyuna  Sflfhvatmrena  iti  saihatavah  \ 
eteshv  eva  sthana-vyuheshv  ritu-chhandah-stoma-prishfhasya  Ihahti-iesham 
anukalpayita  \  sttrad-anmhtub-eiavimia-stomo  vairdjam  sama  iti prithi/vy- 
ayatandni  \  hemantah  panktis  trina/oa-stomah  idJcvaram  sdma  ity  antari- 
hhdyatandni  \  Hiiro  'tichhandds  trayas-trimia-stomo  raivatam  sdma 
iti  dyu-lhaktlni  \ 

4.  "  We  shall  now  inquire  who  are  the  deities  in  those  hymns  in 
which  no  deity  is  indicated.  They  are  addressed  to  the  god  to  whom 
the  sacrifice  or  part  of  a  sacrifice  [in  which  they  are  employed]  is 
offered.  The  hyjnns  which  are  unconnected  with  a  sacrifice  are,  accord- 
ing to  the  ritualists  (yajnikah),  addressed  to  Prajapati;  according  to 
the  etymologists  (nairuktah),  they  are  spoken  in  praise  of  men.'┬░* 
Or  in  such  cases  the  deity  may  he  an  optional  one,  or  a  class  of 
deities :  Рёб  for  it  is  a  very  prevalent  practice  to  [classify  rites]  as 
those  which  have  a  god,  a  guest,  or  a  progenitor,  respectively,  for  their 
deity.  In  reference  to  what  has  been  said  that  hymns  are  sacrificial, 
and  addressed  to  a  god,  [it  is  to  he  remarked  that]  beings  other  than 
gods  are  lauded  as  gods,  as  e.g.  the  objects  beginning  with  horses  and 
ending  with  herbs  (see  Nighantu,  6,  3,  and  Wit.  ix.  1-28),  and  also 
the  eight  pairs  (see  Nighantu,  5,  3,  and  Nir.  ix.  35  ff.).  But  let  him 
[the  student]  not  regard  any  matters  relating  to  the  gods  as  if  they 
were  accidental:  this  may  be  clearly  seen.  Owing  to  the  greatness 
of  the  deity,  the  one  Soul  is  lauded  in  many  ways.  The  different 
gods  are  members  of  the  one  Soul.  And  [the  learned]  say  that  the 
rishis  address  their  hymns  according  to  the  multiplicities  of  natures 
in  the  [celestial]  existences;  and  [further]  from  the  universality  of 
their  nature  [these  existences]  are  produced  from  each  other,  and 
possess  the  natures  of  each  other  (compare  Mr.  xi.  23,  quoted  above, 
p.  13);  they  are  produced  from  works;  they  are  produced  from  soul. 
It  is  soul  that  is  their  car,  soul  their  steeds,  soul  their  weapon,  soul 
their  arrows,  soul  is  a  god's  all. 

'56  Professor  Eoth  refers  to  Nir.  ix.  9,  where  the  word  naraiamaa  is  thus  defined : 
Yena  narahpraaasyante  sanaraSamso  mantrah  |  "A  hymn  in  which  men  are  eulogized 
is  a  tidra^amsa  hymn."  As  an  instance  of  this  kind  of  hymn  Yaska  quotes  E.  V.  i. 
126,  1. 

^^'  This  is  the  sense  assigned  to  prayo-devata  by  Eoth,  Illustrations  of  Nimkta,  p. 
102,  see  note  1  there :  but  may  not  the  word  mean  a  being  who  has  something  of  the 
character  of  a  god  ? 


160  TRANSLATION  OF  THE  QUOTATION  FROM 

5.  ' '  There  are  three  deities  according  to  the  etymologists  (nairuktah), 
viz.  Agni,  whose  place  is  on  earth,  Vayu,  or  Indra,'"  whose  place  i? 
in  the  atmosphere,  and  Surya  (the  Sun),  whose  place  is  in  the  sky. 
These  [deities]  receive  many  designations  in  consequence  of  their 
greatness,  or  from  the  diversity  of  their  functions,  as  [the  appellations 
of]  hotri,  adhvaryu,  brahman,  and  ndgatri,  are  applied  to  one  and  the 
same  person.  Or  the  gods  in  question  may  all  be  distinct,  for  the 
praises  addressed  to  them,  and  also  their  appellations,  are  distinct 
As  [regards  the  view  that]  this  [diversity  of  appellation]  arises  from 
difference  of  function  [and  not  from  distinctness  of  personality,  it 
may  be  objected  that]  a  plurality  of  individuals  also  may  each  fulfil  _ 
their  separate  allotted  functions.  In  this  latter  case,  a  community  of 
locality,  and  of  possession,  must  be  remarked.  Thus  men,  beasts, 
and  gods,  occupy  the  earth ;  here  is  community  of  place.  Community 
of  possession,  too,  is  seen  in  such  instances  as  that  of  the  joint  oc- 
cupation of  the  earth  both  by  Parjanya,  and  by  Vayu,  and  Aditya, 
and  of  the  rest  of  the  world  by  [Vayu,  Aditya,  and]  Agni.  Here 
the  case  is  Hke  that  of  a  kingdom  and  its  inhabitants  {i.e.  the  one 
realm  is  occupied  by  different  classes  of  persons). 

6.  "  We  have  now  to  consider  the  forms  of  the  gods.  One  [mode  of 
representation  in  the  hymns  makes]  them  resemble  men  :  for  they  are 
praised  and  addressed  as  intelligent  beings.  They  are  also  celebrated 
with  members  such  as  those  of  men.  Thus  K.  V.  vi.  47,  8 :  '  Huge, 
0  Indra,  are  the  arms  of  thee  who  art  strong';  iii.  30,  5,  'when 
thou  didst  grasp  the  two  worlds,  they  were  but  as  a  handful  to 
thee.'  They  are  also  [celebrated]  with  the  accompaniment  of  material 
objects  such  as  those  belonging  to  men.  Thus  it  is  said,  E.  V.  ii. 
18,  4,  'Come,  Indra,  with  thy  two  tawny  steeds';  iii.  63,  6,  'A 
handsome  wife  and  pleasure  are  in  thy  house.'  And  further,  they 
are  celebrated,  with  functions  of  a  similar  character  to  the  human. 
Thus  E.  V.  X.  116,  2,  'Eat,  0  Indra,  and  drink  from  the  bowl;' 
E.  V.  i.  10,  9,  '  Thou  whose  ears  hear  us,  listen  to  our  invocation.' 

7.  "  Another  [mode  of  representation  makes  them]  unlike  men.  But 
further,  that  which  is  seen  [of  them]  is  unlike  what  is  human,  as  Fire, 
Air,  Sun,  Earth,  Moon.     As  [regards  the  assertion]  that  'they  are 

'"  Compare Taitt.  Sanli.,  vi.  6,  8,  3 :  Indra-Vayu  hi  sayujau  \  "For  Indra  and 
Vayu  are  closely  united. 


THE  SEVENTH  SECTION  OF  THE  KIEUETA.  161 

praised  as  intelligent' beings, '-^it  is  also  tnle  that  senseless  things  are 
in  like  manner  praised,  as  the  objects  beginnirig  with  dice  and  ending 
with  herbs  (Nigh.  5,  3 ;  Nir.  3,  7  ff.)-  Again,  as  [regards  the  remark] 
that  the  gods  are  '  celebrated  with  members  such  as  those  of  men,' Рђћ 
the  same  thing  is  done  in  the  case  of  senseless  objects,  as  stones  are 
celebrated  in  the  words,  '  They  cry  with  their  ruddy  mouths '  (E.  V.  x. 
94,  2).  Further,  the  same  is  the  case  as  [regards  the  remark]  that  the 
gods  are  [celebrated]  'with  the  acconipaniment  of  material  objects  such 
as  those  possessed  by  men ; '  for'  a  river  is  praised  in  the  words,  '  The 
Sindhu  has  yoted  his  beautiful  car  drawn  by  steeds '  (E.  V.  x.  75,  9). 
And  the  same  thing  applies  to  the  remark  that  the  gods  are  described 
with  '  functions  similar  to  those  of  men ; '  for  stones  are  lauded  in  the 
words,  '  Even  before  the  priests  they  have  eaten  food  of  melted  butter ' 
(E.  y.  X.  94,  2).  Or  the  gods  may  be  deseribed  under  both  forms  (either 
as  having,  or  as  not  having,  a  human  form).  Or,  again,  when  they  are 
described  as  similar  to  men,  this  may  be  merely  in  their  character 
of  actors  in  a  particular  function,  as  sacrifice  is  only  the  [temporary] 
act  of  the  man  whe  offers  it.  This  is  the  condition  of  all  narrations.'*' 
8.  "  It  has  been  declared  above  (par.  5)  that  there  are  three  deities. 
We  shall  now  declare  the  various  objects  which  are  associated  with 
their  provinces.  Now  these  which  follow  are  connected  with  Agni's 
domain :  viz.  this  world,  the  morning  oblation,  spring,  the  gayatri 
metre,  the  trivrit  stoma,  the  rathantara  sama,  the  classes  of  gods  who 
in  the  Nighantu  are  enumerated  in  the  first  sphere,  with  the  goddesses 
Agnayi,  Prithivi,  and  Ila,  Then  Agni's  function  is  to  carry  away  the 
oblations,  and  to  bring  the  gods :  and  whatever  has  reference  to  things 
visible  is  the  work  of  Agni.  Then  the  deities  who  are  lauded 
along  with  him  are  Indra,  Soma,  Varuna,  Parjanya;  and  the  seasons. 
There  is  an  oblation  made  to  Agni  and  Vishnu  in  common ;  but  in  the 
ten  books  [of  the  E.  Y.]  there  is  no  Eich  which  praises  these  two  gods 
together.     There  is  also  an  oblation  made  to  Agni  and  Pushan  in 

1^8  The  commentator  Durga  (as  I  learn  from  Prof.  Roth's  note,  lUust.  of  Nir. 
p.  104)  refers  this  observation  to  the  Mahabharata,  and  adduces,  as  illustrations  of 
the  remark  in  the  text,  the  appearances  of  the  Earth  in  the  form  of  a  woman  to  request 
a  Brahman  to  relieve  her  of  her  load,  and  of  Agni  in  the  formof  a  Brahman  to  ask 
aid  from  Vasudeva  and  Arjuna' respecting  the  Khandava  wood,  and  in  the  form  of  a 
man,  and  of  fire,  to  burn  the  wood  in  question.  See  Williams's  Indian  Epic  Poetry, 
p.  101;  and  the  Vanaparvan,  verses  8079  ff. 

VOL.  IT.  11 


162    PASSAGE  TEANSLATED  FROM  THE  NIEUKTA  CONTINUED. 

common,  but  no  conjoint  laudation.  Here  tte  following  verse  con- 
taining separate  praise  [of  these  two  gods]  is  quoted,  viz.  E.  V.  x. 
17,  3 :  9.  'May  Pushan,  the  wise,  the  preserver  of  the  world,  he  who 
loses  none  of  his  cattle,  convey  thee  away  hence  :  may  he  deliver  thee 
to  these  fathers;  and  may  Agni  [entrust  thee]  to  the  gracious  gods.' 
The  words,  'May  Pushan,  the  wise,  etc.,'  refer  to  the  Sun,  who  is  the 
protector  of  all  creatures.  The  sense  of  the  third  quarter  of  the  verse, 
beginning,  'May  he  deliver  thee,  etc.,'  is  dubious  :  on  the  one  hand  it 
may  be  a  repetition  of  the  reference  to  Pushan,  who  had  been  named 
before  ;  '*'  or,  on  the  other  hand,  it  may  be  a  celebration  of  Agni,  who 
is  mentioned  afterwards.  Svwidatra  (from  which  suvidatriyehhyah  in 
the  fourth  clause,  "May  Agni,"  etc.,  comes)  means  'wealth,'  and  is 
either  derived  from  vid,  '  to  find,'  with  one  preposition  (┬Ф┬Ф),  or  from 
da,  '  to  give,'  with  two  prepositions  {su  and  vi). 

10.  "  The  following  are  the  objects  connected  with  Indra's  domain : 
viz.  the  atmosphere,  the  midday  oblation,  summer,  the  trishtubh  metre, 
the  panchadasa  stoma,  the  brihat  sama,  the  classes  of  gods  and  the 
females  who  are  enumerated  in  the  second  sphere.  Indra's  function  is 
to  bestow  moisture,  to  slay  Vritra :  and  all  exertions  of  force  are  the 
work  of  Indra.  The  deities  lauded  along  with  him  are  Agni,  Soma, 
Varuna,  Pushan,  Brihaspati,  Brahmanaspati,  Parvata,  Kutsa,  Vishnu, 
and  Yayu.  Further,  Mitra  is  lauded  along  with  Varuna,  Soma  with 
Pushan  and  Kudra,  Pushan  with  Agni,  and  Parjanya  with  Vata. 

11.  "The  following  are  the  objects  connected  with  Aditya's  (the 
Sun's)  domain  :  heaven,  the  third  oblation,  the  rainy  season,  the  jagati 
metre,  the  saptadasa  stoma,  the  vairupa  sama,  the  classes  of  gods  and 
the  females  who  are  enumerated  in  the  highest  sphere.  The  function  of 
Aditya  is  to  draw  up  moisture,  and  to  retain  it  by  his  rays  :  and  what- 
ever is  mysterious  is  the  work  of  Aditya.  He  is  praised  along  with 
the  Moon,  the  Air  (Vayu),  and  the  Year. 

"[The  student]  is  to  class  the  remaining  seasons,  metres,  stomas, 
and  prishthas  (particular  sama  formulas)  under  [one  or  other  of]  the 
[three]  spheres  above  mentioned.  Autumn,  the  anushtubh  metre, 
the  ekavin^a  stoma,  and  the  vairaja  sama,  belong  to  the  sphere  of  earth. 
The  early  winter,  the  pankti  metre,  the  trinava  stoma,  and  the  ^akvara 
sama,  belong  to  the  atmospheric  sphere.  The  later  winter,  the  ati- 
'"  I  have  translated  the  clause  as  referring  to  Pushan. 


aUOTATIONS  FEOM  THE  BRIHADDEVATA.  163' 

chhandas  metre,  tlie  trayastrinsa  stoma,  and  the  raivata  sama,  are 
connected  Рќаwith  the  celestial  sphere."^Рёб 

It  will  be  observed  that  in  the  preceding  classification  of  the  gods,- 
the  principal' places  are  assigned  to  Agni,  Vayu,  or  Indra,  and  Surya, 
Рђбwho  appear  therefore  to  have  been  regarded  in  the  time  of  Yaska  as 
the  triad  of  deities  in  whom  the  supreme  spirit  was  especially  revealed. 
Vishnu  is  only  alluded  to  as  one  of  the  divinities  who  were  worshipped' 
conjointly  with  Indra;  and  Rudra  is  only  mentioned  as  worshipped 
along  with  Soma.  If  we  may  judge  from  his  silence  regarding  it,  the 
conjunction  of  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  Rudra  as  the  triple  manifestation 
of  the  deity  (trimurti)  would  appear  to  have  been  unknown  to  Taska. 

It  is  true  that  his  object  in  the  passage  I  have  cited,  as  well  as  in 
other  parts  of  his  work,  is  to  classify  the  Vedic  deities ;  and  it  may  be 
urged  that  the  Puranio  mythology  (of  which  the  trimurti  of  Brahma, 
Vishnu  and  8'iva  is  a  part)  might  have  grown  up  along  'with  the 
Vedic.  It  may,  however,  be  objected  to  this  view,  that  if  Taska  had' 
been  cognizant  of  any  other  than  the  Vedic  mythology  (at  least  if  he 
had  attached  any  authority  to  any  other),  he  would  not  have  failed  to- 
make  some  reference  to  the  latter,  and  would  have  endeavoured  to  blend 
and  reconcile  it  with  the  former.  As  we  find  no  attempt  of  this  kind- 
in  his  work,  we  may  perhaps  conclude,  either  that  the  Puranic 
mythology  had  no  existence  in-  his  day,  or  that  he  regarded  it  as 
undeserving  of  any  attention. 

The  following  passages  from  th-e  Brihaddevata,  in  which  the  views 
of  Taska  are  repeated,  are  derived  from  Weber's  liid.  Stud.  i.  113  f. : 

Brihaddevata,  i.  13. Рђћ Bh'avad-lhuta  [sya  lha\  vyasyajangama-sthavar- 
asya  cha  \  asyaike  suryam  evaiham  prabhavam  pralayam  viduk  \  asaiai 
eha  satai  chaiva  yonir  esha  Prafapatih  \  yad  ahharam  cha  vaehyarh  (?)  cha 
yathaiva  Brahma  iasvaiam  \.  Icritvaisha  hi  tridha  ''' tmdnam  eshu  loheshu 
tishthati  \  Ibid.  i.  14  .  .  .  tisrah  eveha  devatdh  |  etdsam  eva  mahdtmydd 
ndmdnyatvam  vidhiyate  |  tach  cha  sthdna-vihhagena  tatra  tutreha  drisyate-\ 
i.  13 :  "  Some  consider  Surya  (the  Sun)  to  be  the  only  cause  of  the  produc- 
tion and  destruction  of  this  [universe];  present,  past,  and  future,  moving 
and  stationary.  And  this  lord  of  creatures  (Prajapati)  is  the  source  of 
non-entity  and  entity,  which  is  undecaying  and  describable  (?)  like 

'Рёб  The  abore  passage  is  translated  by  Prof.  Eoth  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Niru'kta- 
pp.  101  ff. 


164  EAELIEE  CONCEPTION  OF  VISHNU'S  CHAEAOTEE. 

the  eternal  Brahma.  He,  having  made  himself  threefold,  abides  in 
these  worlds,  i.  14 :  .  .  .  There  are  but  three  deities ;  and  from  their 
greatness,  a  variety  of  names  is  assigned  [to  each  of  them].  This  is 
seen  in  different  instances  according  to  the  distinction  of  places." 

Prom  the  passage  cited  above  (p.  30  f.)  from  Manu,  it  appears  that 
the  word  Narayana  is  there  applied  to  Brahma,  and  that  no  mention 
whatever  is  made  of  Vishnu,  as  concerned  in  the  creation.  In  fact  Yishnu 
is  only  once  mentioned  "^  by  Manu,  viz.  in  the  following  verse  xii.  121 : 

Manaslndum  dUah  irotre  hranie  Vishnum  hale  Ha/ram  \  vachy  Agnim 
Mitram  utsarge prajane  cha  Prajapatim  \  "[He  may  contemplate]  in 
his  mind  the  Moon  (Indu),  in  his  hearing  the  regions,  in  his  stepping 
Yishnu,  in  his  strength  Hara,  in  his  voice  Agni,  in  excretion  Mitra, 
and  in  procreation  Prajapati."  Yishnu  is  not  spoken  of  here  as  in  any 
way  superior  to  the  other  gods  with  whom  he  is  associated. 

In  the  text  quoted,  above  (p.  33)  from  the  older  recension  of  the 
Eamayana  too,  it  is  Brahma  who  is  spoken  of  not  only  as  the  creator, 
hut  also  as  the  god  who  raised  up  the  earth  from  the  bottom  of  the 
ocean. 

Again,  those  texts  of  the  Mahabharata  and  Puranas  (see  above,  pp.  118 
-ff.)  where  Yishnu  is  described  as  one  of  the  twelve  Adityas,  confirm  the 
conclusion  that  he  must  have  been  originally  looked  upon  as  a  deity  of 
no  more  elevated  rank  than  the  other  sons  of  Aditi ;  and  the  circum- 
stance that  he  is  in  some  of  those  passages  distinguished  from  the  rest 
of  the  gods  by  epithets  expressive  of  some  higher  characteristics  is  easily 
explicable,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  by  the  supposition  that  those 
passages  have  been  composed  or  modified  at  a  period  when  his  supe- 
riority had  come  to  be  recognized. 

In  some  of  the  earlier  passages  of  the  Eamayana  also,  where  Yishnu 
is  introduced,  though  he  is  treated  as  a  deity  of  higher  rank  than  Indra 
and  others  (with  whom  he  had  been  originally,  at  most,  on  a  footing  of 
equality),  yet  he  is  not  designated  by  the  same  sort  of  epithets  which 
are  applied  to  him  in  the  Yishnu  and  Bhagavata  Puranas,  and  in  some 
parts  of  the  Mahabharata,  and  other  portions  of  the  Eamayana  itself 
(unless  we  suppose  these  to  be  later  interpolations),  or  identified  with 
the  supreme  deity,  as  in  these  first-named  works.  In  proof  of  this  I 
adduce  the  following  passage  from  the  Eamayana,  i.  14,  1  ff.  (Schlegel's 

161  Lassen,  Ind.  Ant.,  1st  ed.,  i.  777,  note ;  or  2nd  ed,,  p.  918. 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  EAMAYANA  EEaARDINa  VISHNU.     165 

edition  ;=i.  15,  1  ff.,  Bombay  edition,  and  i.  14,  1  ff.  of  Gorresio's 
edition)  : 

Eamayana,  i.  14,  1  ff. Рђћ Medham  tu  tato  dhjatva  sa  kinchid  idam 
uttaram  \  Mdha-sanjnas "'  taias  tani  tu  veda-jm  nripam  abrmilt  \  2  | 
ishti0i  te  'nyam  "'  karishydmi  putnyam  putra-Mranat  \  athmrmsirasi 
proUair  mcmtraih  siddham  vidhanatah  \  3  ]  ^^Hatah  prachakrame  karium 
ishtim  kama^mmriddhaye  \  tasya  rdjno  hitameshl  Vilhandaha-suto 
vail  I  4  I  tatra  devah  sa-gandharvdh-  SiddhdScha  munibhih  mha  \  bhaga- 
pratigrahartham  vai  purvam  eva  scmdgatah  \  5  ]  Brahma  sureivarah 
Sthdms  tatha  Narayanah  prabhuh  1  Incb-ai  eha  bhagavan  sdkshad 
Marud-gana-vritas  tatha  \  6  |  asvamedhe  mahaya^ne  rdj'nas  tasya  mahdt- 
manah  \  tatra  bhdgdrtUno  devdn  agatdn  so  'bhyaydchata  \  7  |  ayam  rdjd 
Daiarathah  putrdrtM  taptavdms  tapah  \  ishtman  asvamedhena  bhavatah 
iraddhayd  'nvitah  |  8  |  ishtim  cha  pwtra-kdmo  ^nydm  punah  kartum 
samudyatah  \  tad  asya  putra-kamasya  prasddam  kartum  a/rhatha  \  9  | 
abhiydohe  cha  vah  sarvdn  asydrthe  'ham  kritdnjalih  \  bhaveywr  asya 
chatvarah  putrds  irailokya-vihutSh  \  10  \  te  tathety  abrman  devdh 
rishi-putram  kritanjalim  \  mdnaniyo  'si  no  vipra  rdja  chaiva  viseshatah  \ 
11  I  prdpsyate  paramam  kdmam   etayeshtyd   narddhipak  \   ity   uktvd 

'62  Labdha-sanjnah  samMhy-utthitah  |  Gomm.  in  Bomtay  ed. 

163  Bombay  ed.  reads  te  %am  for  te  'nyam. 

164  The  Bomb.  ed.  here  reads  :  3.  Tatah  pmkramad  ishtim  tam  putrlyam  putra- 
karanat  |  j'uhav  agnau  cha  tejasvi  mantra-drishtena  karmana  \  i  \  tato  devah  sa- 
gandhanah  siddKai  eha  paramarahayah  \  bhma-  [qu.  hhS^a]  pratigrahartham  vai 
samavetah  yathmidhi  \  5  \  tah  aametya  yathanyayam  tasmin  sadasi  devatah  \  ahrtman 
loka-kartaram  Brahmanam  vaehanam  tatah  |  6  |  Bhagaoams  tvat-prasadena  Savano 
ndma  rakshasah  \  sarvan  no  hadhate  viryat  sasititm  tarn  na  saknumah  \  **'He  then  began 
that  sacrifice  for  the  sake  of  obtaining  a  son ;  and  the  glorious  (rishi)  cast  an  oblation 
into  the  fire,  accompanied  by  the  prescribed  recita:tion  of  tex-ts.  4.  Then  the  gods, 
Gandharvae,  Siddhas,  and  .great  Eishis  were  gathered  together  in  due  form  to  receive 
their  portion.  5.  Having  duly  assembled  in  that  abode,  the  deities  spake  thus  to 
Brahma,  the  creator  of  the  "world :  6.  '  Lord,  ovring  to  thy  favour  a  Bakshasa  named 
Eavana  distresses  us  all  by  his  power,  and  we  cannot  subdue  him.' "  What  follows 
corresponds  in  the  main  with  the  readings  of  Schlegel's  text. 

This  text,  it  wiU  be  noticed,  differs  in  several  points  from  Schlegel's  [and  from 
Gorresio's]  in  (a)  not  statingthe  gods  to  have  been  already  present  at  the  preceding  sacri- 
fice of  the  as'vamedha ;  {b)  in  not  naming  Brahma,  Stha-nu  (Mahadeva),  and  Narayana 
(Vishnu)  as  being  of  the  number;  or  (c)  as  having  been  suppKcated  by  the  rishi  on 
behalf  of  king  Da^aratha ;  and  {d)  in  proceeding  at  once  to  represent  the  gods  as  in- 
voking Brahma's  aid,  as  the  other  two  texts  do  further  on.  The  Bolnhay  text  maybe 
the  most  original,  and  the  verses  there  omitted  may  be  later  additions,  as  they  do  not 
fit  in  very  well  into  the  sequel.  Compare  note  166  below.  This,  however,  would  not 
prove  that  the  whole  sectibn  was  not  a  prior  interpolation.     See  further  on. 


.166  PASSAGE  FEOM  THE  RAMATANA 

'ntarhitah  devas  tatah  ^ ahra-purogamah  \  12  |  tahsametyayathdnyayam 
tasmin  sadasi  devatah  \  ahruvan  loka-kartaram  Brahmanwih  vaohamam 
tatah  I  13  I  tvat-pradishta-naro  Brahman  Havana  ndma  rahhasah  \ 
garvan  no  hadhate  darpdd maha^shlfh^  chatapo-ratdn  |  14  |  tvayd  hy  asya 
varo  dattah  prltena  hhagavan pwrd  \  deva-ddnava-yakshdndm  abadhyo  'sUi 
Icamatah  |  15  ]  mdnaycmtaioha  te  vdkyam  sarvam  asya  sahdmahe  |  sa 
Iddhayctti  loMmi  trin  vihimsan  rdJcshase^varah  |  ....  19.  Tad  mahad 
no  hhayam  tasmddrdhhasdd  ghora-darsanat  |  ladhartham  tasya  hhagemann 
wpdyam  Icartum  arhasi  \  evam  uktah  suraih  sarvais  chmtayitvd  tato 
'Iramt  \  hatitdyam  vihitas  tasya  hadhopdyo  dmratmanah  \  tena  " gmidh- 
arva-yahhdndm  deva-ddnava-rahhasdm  |  ahadhyah  sydm "  iti  proktuih 
iathety  uhtam  eha  tad  mayd  \  avajnaya  tu  tad  raTcsho  manushdn  ndnva- 
Mrtayat  \  tasmdt  sa  mdrmshdd  ladhyo  mrityur  ndnyb  'sya  vidyate  \  etach 
tchhrutvapriyamvaJcyam  Brahmand  samuddhritam  \  dmah  S akra-pwrogds 
te  ha/rshitdh  sa/nato  ^hha/oan  \  etasminn  antare  Vishnur  upaydto  mahd- 
dyutih  1  iankha-ohakra-gadd-panih  plta-vdsdh  jagat-patih  \  Faitmteyam 
samaruhya  hhaskaras  toyadam  yathd  |  tapta-hataka-keyuro  vandyamdnah 
surottamaih  |  tarn  ahruvan  surdh  sarve  samabhishtutya  sannatdh  \ 
drtdndm  asi  lokdndm  drti-hd  Madhusudana  |  ydchdmahe  Has  tvdm 
drtdh  ka/tanam  no  hhavdchyuta  \  hruta  Mm  Tcaravdniti  Vishnus  tan 
ahravid  vachah  \  iti  tasya  vaehah  irutvd  .punar  uchwr  idam  swrdh  \  rdjd 
Dakaratho  ndma  taptavan  sumahat  tapah  \  ishtavam^  ehasvamedhena 
prajd-kdmah  sa  chdprcy'dh  \  asman-niyogdt  tvam  Vishno  tasya  putrdtvam 
dpnuhi  I  tasya  hhdrydsu  tisrishu  BJri-S'ri-Klrty-wpamdsu  cha  \  Vishno 
putratvam  dgachha  kritvd  "tmdnam  chatwrvidham  \  tatra  tvam  mdnusho 
ihutvd  pravriddham  lolcakantaham  \  abadhyam  daivatair  Vishno  samare 
j'ahi  Rdvanam  \  .....  34.  Tvam  gatih  paramd  deva  sarveshdm  nah 
parantapa  I  ladhdya  devaiatrundm  nrindm  loke  manah  kuru  \  sa  niyuktas 
-tathd  devaih  sdkshdd  Ndrdyanah  prahhuh  \  tdn  y/vdcha  ityddi  \ 

"  Then  that  sage,  skilled  in  the  Veda,  having  meditated  for  a  little 
on  this  answer,  having  regained  his  consciousness  [which  had  been 
suspended  during  his  state  of  meditation],  said  to  the  kirjg :  '  I  shall 
perform  for  thee  another  sacrifice,  celebrated  according  to  rule  with 
the  texts  enjoined  in  the  Atharva-^iras,  to  obtain  for  thee  a  son.'  The 
self-subdued  sou  of  Vibhandaka,  desiring  the  king's  welfare,  then 
began  to  perform  the  sacrifice  for  the  attainment  of  his  desire.  The 
gods,  with  the  Gandharvas,  Siddhas,  and  Munis,  had  previously  come 


ABOUT  VISHNU,  "WITH  EEMARKS.  167 

thither  to  receive  their  portions  [of  the  sacrifice],  both  Brahma,  lord 
of  the  deities,  Sthauu  (Mahadeva),.  the  lord  Narayana'*'  (Vishnu),  and 
the  divine  Indra  in  visible  presence,  surrounded  by  the  host  of  Maruts. 
He  (Eishyasringa  thus)  supplicated  the  gods  who  had  come,  desiring 
their  shares,  to  the  great  asvamedha  sacrifice  [described  in  the  pre- 
ceding section]  of  that  high-souled  king:  'This  King  Da^aratha, 
desiring  a  son,  has  performed  austerity,  and  inspired  with  faith,  has 
worshipped  you  with  an  asvamedha.  Longing  for  a  son,  he  is  also 
prepared  to  celebrate  another  sacrifice.  Te  ought,  therefore,  to  show 
favour  to  him,  who  is  anxious  for  a  son;  and  with  joined  hands,  I 
entreat  you  all  on  his  behalf.  Let  him  have  four  sons,  renowned  in 
the  three  worlds.'  The  gods  said  to  the  rishi's  son  [standing]  with 
joined  hands,  '  So  be  it.  Thou,  Brahman,  art  deserving  of  honour 
from  us,  and  so  especially  is  the  king.  The  lord  of  men  shall  obtain 
the  highest  object  of  his  desire  by  means  of  this  sacrifice.'  Having 
thus  spoken,  the  gods,  headed  by  S'akra  (Indra),  then  disappeared. 

"  Having  duly  assembled  in  that  abode,Рёб  these  gods  then  addressed 
a  word  to  Brahma,  the  creator  of  the  world :  '  A  Eakshasa  named 
Havana,  having  obtained  a  boon  from  thee,  0  Brahma,  in  his  pride 
harasses  us  all,  and  the  great  rishis  devoted  to  austerity.  For,  0  lord, 
a  boon  was  formerly  granted  to  him  freely  by  thee  when  well-pleased, 
viz.  '  Thou  sbalt  be  indestructible  by  gods,  Danavas  or  Takshas.' 
Obedient  to  thy  words,  we  endure  everything  at  his  hands.  This  lord 
of  the  Eakshasas  vexes  the  three  worlds  by  his  acts  of  cruelty  .  .  .  19. 
"We  are  therefore  in  great  fear  of  this  Eakshasa  of  horrible  aspect. 

"'  Here  it  will  be  observed  tbat  Vishnu,  like  the  other  gods,  comes  for  his  share. 

166  This  verse  does  not  combine  well  with  what  precedes.  See  the  last  note  but 
one  (164).  Why  should  the  gods  disappear  in  order  to  reassemble,  so  far  as  appears, 
in  the  same  place  (tasmin  sadaai)  P  See  the  text  of  the  Bombay  ed.,  as  quoted  in 
'  note  164,  verses  4  and  6.  Gorresio's  edition  connects  the  disappearance  and  reappear- 
ance of  the  gods  thus,  i.  14,  lib  S.  -.  ity  uktva  'ntarhitah  devas  tatah  S'akra-puroga- 
mah  I  12  I  tarn  drishtva  vidhwad  dihsham  kriyamanam  mahaishina  |  vfpetya  loka- 
kartaram  Frajapatim  idam  vachah  \  13 1  uchuhpranJalayobhutmBrahmanamvaradam 
tatha  I  IIJ:  "Having  thus  spoken,  the  gods,  headed  by  S'akra,  vanished  thence. 
12.  Beholding  that  initiatory  ceremony  being  duly  performed  by  the  great  rishi,  they 
approached  with  joined  hands  the  lord  of  creatures,  the  boon-bestowing  Brahma,  and 
spoke  as  follows,"  etc.  It  may  also  be  noticed  that  Narayana  (Vishnu)  is  mentioned 
both  in  Schlegel's  ed.  and  in  Gorresio's  (v.  4)  as  having  been  one  of  the  gods  who 
were  present.  If  the  gods  who  reappeared  were  the  same  as  those  who  disappeared, 
why  was  not  he  among  them  P    But  he  is  said  to  have  arrived  afterwards. 


168  PASSAGE  FEOM  THE  EAMATANA  TRANSLATED. 

Thou,  lord,  oughtest  to  imagine  some  device  for  his  slaughter.'  Being 
thus  addressed,  by  all  the  deities,  [Brahma],  after  reflection,  thus  spoke 
to  them  :  '  0,  this  device  has  been  imagined  [by  me]  for  the  slaughter 
of  that  malignant  being.  '  Let  me  be  indestructible  by  Grandharvas, 
Yakshas,  gods,  Danavas  -and  JRakshasas ; '  such  was  his  request,  to 
Рќаwhich  I  replied,  '  Be  it  so.'  But  despising  men,  the  Eakshasa  made 
no  mention  of  them.  He  must  therefore  be  slain  by  a  man :  no  other 
death  is  possible  for  him.'  Having  heard  this  acceptable  word  spoken 
by  Brahma,  the  gods,  headed  by  S'akra,  were  altogether  delighted.  In 
the  mean  time  the  glorious  Vishnu  arrived,  bearing  in  his  hand  the 
shell,  discus,  and  club,  in  yellow  garments,  lord  of  the  world,  mounted 
on  Garuda,  like  the  Sun  on  a  cloud,  with  an  armlet  of  refined  gold, 
adored  by  the  chief  of  the  deities.  After  lauding  him  with  prostra- 
tions, all  the  gods  said :  '  Thou,  Madhusudana,  art  he  who  removes 
the  affliction  of  the  afflicted  worlds.  Wherefore  we,  distressed,  beseech 
thee  be  our  refuge,  0  Achyuta  (Unfailing).'  Vishnu  said  to  them, 
'  Tell  me  what  I  shall  do.'  Hearing  this  answer  of  his,  the  gods  again 
said :  '  A  king  named  Da^aratha  has  performed  great  austerity,  and 
celebrated  an  a^vamedha  sacrifice,  desirous  of  offspring,  for  he  is  child- 
less. Do  thou,  Vishnu,  according  to  our  appointment,  take  upon  thee 
his  sonship.  Making  thyself  fourfold,  ido  thou  become  the  offspring  of 
his  three  wives  who  resemble  Hrl,  S'rl,  and  Kirti  (Modesty,  Prosperity, 
and  B,enown).  Having  then  become  man,  do  thou  slay  in  battle 
Eavana,  the  powerful  enemy  of  the  worlds,  who  is  indestructible  by 
the  gods.  ...  34.  Thou,  god,  ve;xer,of  thy  foes,  art  the  highest  refuge 
of  us  all ;  resolve  to  destroy  in  the  world  of  men  the  enemies  of  the 
deities.'  The  manifested  lord  Narayana,  being  thus  appointed  by  the 
gods,"  replies  by  asking  for  further  explanations  in  regard  to  the  occasion 
which  demanded  his  intervention.  This  explanation  the  gods  give  and 
say,  that  he  alone  of  all  the  celestials  can  kill  the  wicked  one  {tvatto 
Id  nanyas  tarn pSpam  iakto  hantuih  divaukasdm).  Vishnu,  then,  "the 
lord  of  the  gods"  {devesa),  "the  most  excellent  of  the  immortals" 
{trida┬Дa-pungava),  "adored  by  aU  the  worlds"  {sarva-loha-namaslcrita), 
reassures  the  deities,  promises  to  slay  Eavaua,  and  to  reign  on  earth 
for  eleven  thousand  years. 

I  have  said  that  the  representation  given  of  Vishnu  in  the  preceding 
passage  is  of  a  different  character  from  that  which  we  find  in  writings 


QUOTATIONS  FEOM  LASSEN,  РќаW;iLSON,  AND  GOLDSTUCKEE.    169 

of  a  later  age.  But  it  is  not  certain  that  any  portion  of  this  passage 
formed  part  of  the  Eamayana,  as  it  originally  existed.  I  extract  the 
following  remarks  from  Lassen's  "Indian  Antiquities,"  (vol.  i.  p.  488, 
1st  edition;  i.  586,  2nd  edition),  in  regard  to  the  interpolations  which 
he  supposes  to  have  heen  made  in  the  Eamayana  and  Mahabharata : 

"  It  is  true  that  in  the  Epic  poems  ,Eama  and  Krishiia  appear  as  in- 
carnations of  Vishnu,  but  they  at  the  same  time  come  before  us  as 
human  heroes,  and  these  two  characters  (the  divine  and  the  human) 
are  so  far  from  being  inseparably  blended  together,  that  both  of  these 
heroes  are  for  the  most  part  exhibited  in  no  other  light  than  other 
highly  gifted  men, Рђћ acting  according  to  human  motives  and  taking  no 
advantage  of  their  divine  superiority.  It  is  only  in  certain  sections 
which  have  been  added  for  the  purpose  of  enforcing  their  divine 
character  that  they  take  the  character  of  Vishnn.  It  is  impossible  to 
read  either  of  these  two  poems  with  attention,  without  being  reminded 
of  the  later  interpolation  of  such  sections  as  ascribe  a  divine  character 
to  the  heroes,  and  of  the  unskilful  manner  in  which  these  passages  are 
often  introduced,  and  without  observing  how  loosely  they  are  con- 
nected with  the  rest  of  the  narrative,  and  how  unnecessary  they  are 
for  its  progress."  ^" 

In  p.  489  (1st  edition,  p.  5,87  2nd  edition)  note,  he  remarks  more 

'"  In  the  Preface  to  his  Vishnu  Purana,  ,p.  ix.,  4to.  ed.(  =p.  xv.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.), 
Professor  "Wilson  had  previously  made  some  observations  of  the  same  tenor ;  "  But 
the  ascription  to  individual  and  personal  deities  of  the  attributes  of  the  one  universal 
and  spiritual  Supreme  Being,  is  an  indication  of  a  later  date  than  the  Vedas  certainly, 
and  apparently  also  than  the  Eamayana,  where  Eama,  although  an  incarnation  of 
Vishnu,  commonly  appears  in  his  human  character  alone.  There  is  something  of  the 
kind  in  the  Mahabharata  in  respect  to  Krishna,  especially  in  the  philosophical  episode 
known  as  the  Ehagavad  Gita.  In  other  places  the  divine  nature  of  Krishna  is  less 
decidedly  afSrmed ;  in  some  it  is  disputed  or  denied ;  and  in  most  of  the  situations  in 
which  he  is  exhibited  in  action,  it  is  as  a  prince  and  warrior,  not  as  a  divinity.  He 
exercises  no  superhuman  faculties  in  the  defence  of  himself,  or  his  friends,  or  in  the 
defeat  and  destruction  of  his  foes.  The  Mahabharata,  however,  is  evidently  a  work 
of  various  periods,  and  requires  to  be  read  throughout  carefully  and  critically  before  its 
weight  as  .an  authority  can  be  accurately  appreeiated."  Professor  Goldstiioker,  too, 
observes  in  the  Preface  to  his  Manava  Kalpa  Sutra,  p.  xxxi. .  "  It  is  of  course  im- 
possible for  me  to  treat  here,  as  it  were  incidentally,  not  merely  of  the  question  con- 
cerning the  age  of  the  Mahabharata,  but  the  relative  a,ges  of  the  various  portions  of  this 
work,  since  it  must  be  evideot  to  every  one  who  has  read  it,  that  it  is,  in  its  present 
shape,  a  collection  of  literary  products  belonging  to  widely  distant  periods  of  H4udu 
literature." 


17D  FTTETHEH  QtTOTATIONS  FROM  THE  EAMaTANA 

particularly:  "As  regards  the  Eamayana,  Mr.  von  Schlegel  has  often 
observed  to  me  that  the  chapters  in  which  Kama  is  conceived  of  as  an 
incarnation  of  Vishnu,  miglit  be  "entirely  omitted  without  injuring  the 
connexion  of  the  story.  In  fact,  at  the  point  where  the  incarnation  of 
Vishnu  in  the  four  sons  of  Dasaratha  is  described  (Eam.  i.  14  ff.),  the 
proper  great  sacrifice  is  already  concluded,  and  the  priests  have  all 
been  presented  with  gifts  at  its  close,  when  the  new  sacrifice  is  com- 
menced, at  which  the  gods  appear,  then  withdraw,  and  now  for  the 
first  time  propose  to  Vishnu  to  become  incarnate.  If  this  had  been  an 
original  portion  of  the  story,  the  gods  would  certainly  have  considered 
the  matter  sooner,  and  the  ceremonial  of  sacrifice  would  have  pro- 
ceeded without  interruption.  In  the  same  book,  ch.  74,  75,  a  scene 
with  the  earlier  [or  Para^u-]  Eama  is  suddenly  interpolated,  in  order 
that  he  may  be  made  to  declare  the  new  ESma  to  be  Vishnu." 

An  examination  of  the  earlier  portions  of  the  Eamayana  seems  to 
confirm  the  opinion  of  Lassen  that  the  14th  and  following  sections 
which  describe  the  miraculous  births  of  Eama  and  his  brothers  as  in- 
carnations of  Vishnu,  are  additions  interpolated  at  a  later  date  in  the 
original  poem.  It  appears  from  various  passages  which  I  shall  cite 
from  the  8th  and  following  sections,  that  the  asvamedha  or  horse- 
sacrifice,  a  rite  of  great  importance  and  dignity,  was  instituted  for  the 
express  purpose  of  procuring  progeny  for  Dasaratha.  But  if  this  be 
so,  what  necessity  was  there  for  celebrating  the  fresh  ceremony,  al- 
luded to  at  the  beginning  of  section  14  as  a  "putriya  ishti,"  for  the 
same  purpose  ?    The  passages  to  which  I  allude  are  the  following : 

Eam.  i.  8, 1  ff.  (=Bombay  ed.  i.  8,  1 ;  Gorresio's  ed.  i.  8,  1). Рђћ Tasya 
tv  evam-prabhavasya  dharmihasya  mahatmanah  \  sutdrtham  tapyamanasya 
nasld  vamsa-Tcarah  sutah  \  tasya  chintayato  luMMr  utpanneyam  mdha- 
mateh  \  sutdrtham  vdji-medhena  kimarthafh  na  yajdmy  aham  \  sunUchitdm 
matim  kritvd  yashtavye  vasudhddhipah  \  "  But  a  son  to  prolong  his  race 
was  not  bom  to  this  king  so  mighty,  and  righteous,  and  great,  though 
he  performed  intense  austerity  for  that  purpose.  As  this  wise  man 
reflected,  the  idea  arose  in  his  mind,  'why  do  I  not  celebrate  a  horse- 
sacrifice  to  obtain  a  son  ?'  Having  then  formed  this  fixed  opinion  that 
he  ought  to  sacrifice,  the  king,  etc." 

Again,  in  sect.  11,  1  (=Bombay  ed.  i.  12,  1 ;  Gorresio's  ed.  i.  11,  1), 
it  is  said :  Atha  kdU  vyatihrdnte  iiiire  tadanantmram  |  vasanta-samaye 


EEGARDING  THE  BIRTH  OF  EAMA,  WITH  REMARKS.       171 

prapte  raja  yashtum  memo  dadhe  \  tatah  prasadya  Urasa  tarn  vipraih 
deva-varohasam  \  yajnaya  varayamasa  swntdnartha'm  Iculasya  vai  \ 
"  Then,  when  the  winter  had  passed,  and  the  spring  had  arrived,  the 
king  set  his  mind  upon  sacrificing.  Having  then  propitiated,  by 
[bowing]  his  head,  that  Brahman  of  divine  splendour,  he  solicited  him 
to  [perform]  a  sacrifice  for  the  prolongation  of  his  race." 

Then,  after  calling  his  spiritual  advisers,  Vamadeva,  Javali,  Vasishtha, 
etc.,  he  says  to  them  (v.  8=v.  8b  Bomb.  ed. ;  v.  11,  Gorr.):  Mama 
tatapyamdnasya  putrartham  nasti  vai  sukham  \  tad  ahm  hayormedhena 
yoQeyam,  iti  me  matih  \  tad-artham  yasktum  iehhami  haya-purvena 
karmana  \  "  I  get  no  satisfaction,  though  I  perform  intense  austerity 
for  a  son.  It  is  therefore  my  resolution  to  celebrate  a  sacrifice  in 
which  a  horse  is  the  first  victim." 

"We  are  again  told  (v.  20)  : 

Tatah  m  gatvd  tdh  patmr  narendro  hridayangamdh  '\  wvdcha  diTcsham 
visata  yahhye  ^ham  suta-harandt  \  "  Then  going  to  his  beloved  wives, 
the  king  said  to  them,  'Enter  upon  a  course  of  consecration;  I  am 
about  to  sacrifice  for  a  son.'  " 

And  at  the  beginning  of  the  12th  section  (=Bomb.  ed.  13th;  Gorr. 
12th)  it  is  said:  Punah  prdpte  vasante  tu  purnah  samvatsaro  'bhavat  | 
prasavdrtham  gato  yashtum  hayamedhena  vlryavdn  \  "  Then,  when  the 
spring  arrived,  a  year  had  elapsed,  and  the  heroic  king  went  to  cele- 
brate a  horse- sacrifice  for  the  sake  of  offspring." 

Preparations  are  then  made  for  the  sacrifice  (sect.  12),  and  it  is  duly 
celebrated  (sect.  13).  The  queen,  Kausalya,  "through  desire  of  a  son," 
remains  in  close  contact  with  the  slaughtered  horse  for  one  night 
(13,  36  [=Bomb.  ed.  i.  14,  34;  Gorr.  i.  12,  34]:  Patatrind  tadd 
sdrddham  sushthitena  cha  chetasd  \  avasad  rajanvm  elcdm  Kausalya 
putra-kdmyayd),  and  the  other  two  queens  beside  her  (v.  37).Рёб 

The  conclusion  of  the  sacrifice  is  thus  recorded  at  the  end  of  section 
13,  TV.  54  ff.  (=Bomb.  ed.  14,  58S;  Gorr.  13,  45). 

'*'  See  Wilson's  translation  of  the  R.  V.,  vol.  ii.,  Introd.,  p.  xiii. ;  the  Vajasaneyi 
Samhita,  xxiii.  20  ff.,  and  commentary ;  S'atapathaBrahmana,  pp.  990ff.;  Katyayana 
Sutras,  p.  973 ;  and  Mahabharata,  xiv.  2645.  On  the  word  patatrin,  "  winged," 
applied  to  the  horse,  the  commentator  in  the  Bombay  ed.,  in  loco,  remarks :  Fura 
aivcmSm  pakahah  santi  iti  prasiddhya  evamoadah  |  patatrina  garuda-vegena  ity 
anye  |  "  This  is  said  because  it  is  well  known  that  horses  formerly  had  wings.  Others 
say  the  meaning  of  the  word  is,  '  having  the  speed  of  Garuda '  (the  fabled  bird)." 


172         ADDITIONAL  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  EAMAYANA 

Dakshinah  parigrihyatha  siiprifa-manasa  dvijdh  \  uchur  Dasmraiham 
tatra  Mmam  dhyayeti  vai  tads,  \  tato  'hravid  Riahyairimgam  raja  Baia- 
rathas  tada  |  Iculasya  va/rdhanafh  tat  tu  hartum  wrhasi  suvrata  \  tathett 
sa  cha  rajdnam  mdcha  dvija-sattamah  |  Ihavishyamti  sutd  rdjamk  chdt- 
vdras  te  hulodvahah  \  "Having  received  the  gifts  with,  great  gratification, 
the  Brahmans  then  said  to  Dasaratha,  'Think  of  the  object  you  desire.' 
The  king  then,  said  to-Rishyasringa,  'Thou  oughtest,  saint,  to  effect  that 
increase  of  my  race.'  The  most  excellent  of  Brahmans  replied,  'So  be 
it;  king,  there  shallbe  to  thee  four  sons,  the  continuators  of  thy  race.'" 

"We  are  then  told  at  the  beginning  of  section  14,  as  above  quoted 
(p.  165),  that  Eishyasringa,  after  thinking  over  the  preceding  reply, 
offers  to  celebrate  another  sacrifice  with  tests  from  the  Atharva-siras, 
in  order  to  procure  offspring  for  the  king ;  and  proceeds  accordingly  to 
do  so,  though,  in  striking  contrast  to  the  particular  description  given 
of  the  a^vamedha,  no  details  of  this  additional  ceremony  are  supplied. 
We  are  then  told  (verse  4)  that  the  ,gods  had  .previously  come  to  the 
asvamedha  sacrifice,  to  obtain  their  shares  of  the  oblations,  and  that 
Rishya^ringa  now  tells  them  that  the  king  had  performed  austerity  in 
order  to  obtain  offspring,  that  he  had  also  celebrated  an  asvamedha 
sacrifice,  and  was  now  about  to  perform  another  rite.  The  necessity 
for  this  second  sacrifice  does  not  appear ;  it  seems  strange  that  a  cere- 
mony of  such  importance  as  the  asvamedha  should  be  insufficient; 
there  appears  to  be  no  reason  why  the  gods  should  mot  have  been  told 
at  first,  on  that  occasion,  that  the  king  was  anxious  for  a  son,  since 
that  was  the  very  object  for  which  the  first  sacrifice  was  offered;  and 
that  this  communication  should  have  been  reserved  till  the  commence- 
ment of  the  second  sacrifice. 

In  section  15  (=:Bombay  ed.  15,  31  ff.  and  16;  Gorr.  15)  we  are 
told  that  Vish;nu,  considering  how  he  shall  fulfil  bis  promise  to  the 
gods,  makes  himseK  fourfold,  and  chooses  Dasaratha  for  his  human 
parent.  He  then,  after  respectfully  addressing  Brahma,  disappears 
from  heaven,  and  when  Dasaratha  is  offering  the  second  sacrifice  for 
progeny,  the  god  issues  forth  from  the  fire  in  the  form  of  a  glorious 
being,  calling  himself  a  son  of  Prajapati  {prdjdpatyam  naram),  and 
bearing  a  large  vessel  full  of  nectar.  This  nectar  he  desires  Dasa- 
ratha to  administer  to  his  wives,  who  would  then  bear  sons.  Vishnu 
then,  after  receiving  the  king's  homage,  disappears. 


EEGAEDING  KAMA'S  BIRTH,  WITH  OBSERVATIONS.  173 

Da^aratia  gives  the  half  of  the  potion  to  Kausalya,  and  a  fourth 
each  to  Sumitra  and  Kaikeyl.  They  all  in  consequence  become 
pregnant. 

Section  16  (=Bombay  ed.  17 ;  Grorresio,  20)  begins  thus :  Putratvafh 
tu  gate  Vishnau  rdj'nas  tasya  mahdtmcmah  \  uvaeha  devan  ahuya  Svayam- 
Ihur  hhagavan  idam  \  "  When  Vishnu  had  entered  into  the  relation  of 
sonship  to  that  great  king,  the  divine  Svayambhu  (Brahma)  summoned 
the  gods,  and  said  to  them."  These  words  must  either  be  said  by 
way  of  anticipation,  for  the  birth  of  Dasaratha's  sons  is  not  related 
till  we  come  to  section  19;  or  the  section  must  be  misplaced,  or 
interpolated.  The  commentator  in  the  Bombay  ed.  explains  gate  by 
gantum  itpalcrante,  "had  begun  to  enter."  In  Gorresio's  ed.  this 
section  is  placed  as  the  20th.  The  section  proceeds  to  describe  the 
creation  of  the  monkeys,  who  were  to  be  the  allies  of  Rama. 

The  conclusion  of  the  asvamedha  sacrifice  and  the  departure  of  the 
gods  are  again  alluded  to  at  the  commencement  of  sect.  17  (Schlegel's 
ed.)  in  these  words:  1.  Samdpte  tu  kratau  tasmin  vajimedhe  mahat- 
manah  \  hdvirhhdgdn  avdpyeshtdn  jagmur  devdK  yathdgatam  \  2  | 
rishayaS  cha  mahdtmdnah  pratijagmuh  svpujitdh  \  rajanas  ehaiva  ye 
tatra  hratdv  asan  samdgatdh  \  1.  "  When  that  horse-sacrifice  of  the  great 
king  had  been  completed,  the  gods,  having  received  the  desired  shares 
of  the  oblations,  departed  as  they  had  come.  2.  The  great  rishis,  too, 
after  being  duly  honoured,  and  the  kings  who  had  come  to  the  sacrifice, 
returned."  Here  we  have  another  indication  that  the  sections  inter- 
vening between  the  13th  and  the  17th  form  a  later  interpolation. 
With  the  commencement  of  this  I7th  section  of  Schlegel's  ed.,  the 
opening  verses  of  Gorresio's  16th  section,  and  of  the  18th  section 
of  the  Bombay  ed.,  coincide.  The  last-mentioned  recension,  however, 
from  which  I  proceed  to  quote  some  verses,  touches  very  briefly  on 
the  dismissal  of  the  kings  who  had  come  to  the  sacrifice,  and  of 
Eishya^ringa,  and  proceeds  to  the  birth  of  Eama  and  his  brothers, 
whilst  the  other  two  texts  enlarge  on  the  former  topics,  and  do  not 
arrive  at  the  last  subject  before  their  19th  section.  Sect.'  18  of  the 
Bombay  ed.  begins  thus : 

1  I  Nivritte  tu  Icratau  tasmin  hayamedhe  malidtmanah  \  pratigrihyd- 
mwrah  hhdgdn  pratijagmw  yathdgatam  \  2  |  samdpta-dihshd-niyamah 
patni^gana-samanvitah  \  praviveia  purlm  rdjd  sa-hhritya-bala-vdlianah  , 


174  FtTRTHEE  QTJOTATIONS  FEOM  THE  EAMATANA 

3  I  yathmrham  pujitas  tena  rajna  eha  prithioisvarah  \  muditdh  prayayv/r 
deian  pranamya  muni-pungmam  \  4  |  irxmatam  gaclthatam  tedliam  sva- 
grihani purat  tatah  \  halani  rajnam  iulh/rani prahrisJttani ehakaiire  \  5  | 
gateshu  prithi/oUeshu  raja  Da^arathah  punah  |  praviveia  pwnm  irlman 
purashritya  dvifotiamdn  \  6  |  S'antaya  prayayau  sardham  Rishy  airing  ah 
supajitah  I  anugamyamano  rajna  eha  sdmn/atrem  dhimatd  \  1  \  JEvafh 
v.isrijya  tan  sarvdn  rdjd  sampurna-mdnasah  \  uvasa  sukhitas  tatra 
putrotpattim  viohintayan  \  8  1  tato  yajne  samdpte  tu  ritundm  shat 
samatyayuh  |  tataS  eha  dvddaie  mdse  ityddi  \  1.  "When  that  horse- 
sacrifice  of  the  great  king  had  come  to  an  end,  the  immortals, 
after  receiving  their  shares,  returned  as  they  had  come.  2.  The 
ceremony  of  consecration  being  concluded,  the  king  with  his  wives, 
servants,  army,  and  chariots,  entered  into  the  city.  3.  The  princes, 
too,  after  being  duly  honoured  by  the  king,  and  having  made 
obeisance  to  the  most  excellent  muni,  departed  with  joy  to  their 
several  countries.  4.  The  hosts  of  these  glorious  monarchs,  as  they 
set  out  from  the  city  for  their  homes,  shone  brilliant  and  delighted. 
5.  "When  they  had  gone.  King  Dasaratha  again  entered  the  city, 
preceded  by  the  Brahmans.  6.  Eishyasringa,  receiving  homage, 
set  out  with  (his  wife)  S'anta,  followed  by  the  wise  king  and  his 
attendants.  7.  Having  dismissed  all  these  (visitors),  the  king,  with, 
satisfied  mind,  dwelt  in  happiness,  meditating  on  the  birth  of  his  sons. 
8.  Then  six  seasons  elapsed  after  the  sacrifice  had  been  completed; 
and  in  the  twelfth  month,"  etc.  [The  sequel  of  this  passage,  to- 
gether with  the  parallel  verses  of  Gorresio's  edition,  wiU  be  found 
in  the  Appendix.] 

Schlegel's  ed.,  as  I  have  already  noticed,  does  not  reach  the  same 
point  of  the  narrative  till  its  19th  section,  which  begins  by  relating 
the  birth  of  Da^aratha's  sons,  twelve  months  after  the  conclusion  of 
the  sacrifice,  by  which  no  doubt  the  horse  sacrifice  is  intended  {tato 
yajne  samdpte  tu  ritundm  shat  samatyayuh  |  tatakcha  dvddaie  mdh 
ityddi).  After  specifying  the  month,  day,  and  planetary  influences 
under  which  Kama  was  bom,  the  writer  proceeds :  .  .  .  .  Jaganndtham 
sarva-hha-namashritam  \  Kaukalyd  janayad  Rdmam  divya-lahshana- 
samyutam  \  Kauialyd  iuSuhhe  tena  putrendmita-tejasd  |  yathd  'dhipena 
devdndm  Aditir  Vajrapdnina  \  [_*hhavdya  sa  hi  lolcdndm  Rdvanasya 
hadhdya  eha  |  Vishnor  virydrdhato  jajne  Rdmo  rdjwa-loohanah  \  Bharato 


EEGAEDING  EAMA'S  BIRTH,  "WITH  EBMAEKS.  175 

nama  Kaiheyyafhjcy'ne  satt/a-pardkramah  |  sakshdd  Vishnoi  chatwrhMgal), 
sarvaih  samudito  gunaili  \  atha  Zahhmana-Satrughnau  Sumiira  'janayat 
sutau  I  dridha-bhakti  mahdsdhau  Vishnor  a/rdha-samanvitau  \  j  pushye 
jdtas  tu  Bharato  mma-lagne  pramnna-dhih  \  sdrpe  jdtem  tu  Sawmitrl 
kuUre  'hhyadite  ravau  | 

"  Kau^alya  bore  Eama,  the  lord  of  the  universe,  adored  by  all  worlds', 
distinguished  by  divine  marks.  Kau^alya  derived  lustre  from  that  son 
of  boundless  might,  as  Aditi  did  from  the  Thunderer,  the  l&rd  of  the 
gods.  [*For  the  lotus -eyed  Eama  was  produced  from  the  half  of 
Vishnu's  virile  power,  for  the  good  of  the  world  and  the  slaughter  of 
Eavana.  Bharata,  of  genuine  valour,  was  born  of  Kaikeyl,  manifest 
as  the  fourth  part  of  Vishnu,  endowed  with  all  virtues.  Then  Sumitra. 
brought  forth  two  sons,  of  strong  devotion  and  great  energy,  Lakshmana* 
and  S'atrughna,  possessing  (each)  the  half  (of  the  fourth  part)  of 
Vishnu.J  Now  Bharata,  of  clear  understanding,  was  bom  under 
Pushya  (the  eighth  lunar  mansion),  under  the  sign  of  the  fishes;, 
while  the  sons  of  Sumitra  were  born  under  the  [ninth]  lunar  mansion 
of  the  serpents,  when  the  sun  had  entered  into  Cancer." 

If  the  supposition  of  Schlegel  and  Lassen  that  the  14th,  15th,  and 
1 6th  sections  are  interpolated,  be  correct,,  it  is  quite  conceivable  that 
the  verses  of  the  section  before  us  describing  Dasaratha's  sons  as 
portions  of  Vishnu,,  which  I  have  marked  with  an  asterisk  and  in- 
cluded in  brackets,  may  also  have  been  interpolated,  as  they  can  be 
spared  without  detriment  to  the  connexion ;  and  if  they  are  retained,, 
the  births  of  Bharata,  Lakshmana,  and  S'atrughna,  are  related  twice- 
In  that  case  the  epithets  "lord  of  the  universe,"  and  "adored  by  all 
worlds,"  which  occur  in  the  first  of  the  verses  I  have  qjuoted,  may 
have  been  afterwards  substituted  for  some  of  a  less  magnificent  cha- 
racter which  stood  there  before.  And,  in  fact,  if  Eama  was  originally 
regarded  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  it  does  not  appear  so  suitable 
to  compare  his  birth  to  that  of  Indra  (in  that  case  a  personage  of  less 
dignity  than  Vishnu),  as  is  done  in  one  of  the  verses  which  I  presume 
to  be  ancient,  and  genuine. 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  episode  of  the  apparition  of 
Parasurama  referred  to  above  by  Prof.  Lassen  in  p.  170.     When  King 
Da^aratha  was  returning  to  his  capital,  after  taking  leave  of  Janaka 
the  Eing  of  Mithila,  whose  daughter  Sita  had  just  been  married  to 


176  STOET  FEOM  THE  EAMAYANA 

Eama  (Ramayana,  ScHIeg.  i.  74=Bombay  ed.  i.  74,  and  Gorresio's  ed. 
i.  76),  lie  was  alarmed  by  the  iU-omened  sounds  uttered  by  certain 
birds,  which,  however  were  counteracted,  as  the  sage  Vasishtha  assured 
the  king,  by  the  auspicious  sign  of  his  being  perambulated  by  the 
ynli  animals  of  the  forest.  The  alarming  event  indicated  was  the 
arrival  of  Para^urama,  preceded  by  a  hurricane  which  shook  the  earth 
and  prostrated  the  trees,  and  by  thick  darkness  which  veiled  the  sun. 
He  was  fearful  to  behold,  brilliant  as  fire,  and  bore  his  axe  and  a  bow 
on  his  shoulder.  Being  received  with  honour,  which  he  accepted,  he 
proceeded  to  say  to  Rama,  the  son  of  Dasaratha  (in  section  75),  that 
he  had  heard  of  hjs  prowess  in  breaking  the  bow  produced  by  Janaka 
(Ram.  i.  67),  and  had  brought  another  which  he  asked  Rama  to  bend, 
and  to  fit  an  arrow  on  the  string ;  and  if  he  succeeded  in  doing  so,  he 
(Para^urama)  would  offer  to  engage  with  him  in  single  combat.  Dasa- 
ratha  is  rendered  anxious  by  this  speech,  and  adopts  a  suppliant  tone 
towards  Parasurama,  but  the  latter  again  addresses  Rama,  and  says 
that  the  bow  he  had  broken  was  S'iva's,  but  the  one  he  himself  had 
now  brought  was  Vishnu's.  Two  celestial  bows,  he  proceeds,  were 
made  by  Yi^vakarman,  of  which  one  was  given  by  the  gods  to  Maha- 
deva,  the  other  to  Vishnu.     The  narrative  then  proceeds  (14  ff.) : 

Tads,  tu  devatah  sarvak  prichlianti  sma  Pitamaham  |  S'itihanthasya 
VishnoS  cha  lalalala-ninkshaya  \  ahhiprayam  tu  vijnaya  devatanam  Pitd- 
mahah  \  virodham  janayamasa  tayoh  satycwatamvwrah  |  virodhe  ttimahad 
yuddham  ahhmad  roma-harshamm  I  S itikanthasya  Vishnoi  cha paraspara- 
jayaishinoh  \  tadd  tu  jrimbhitam  ^aivam  dhanur  hhima-parakramam  \ 
hunkarena  Mahddevah  stambhito  Hha  trilochanah  \  devais  tada  sa/magamya 
swrshi-sanghaih  sa-oharanaih  |  yachitau  praiamam,  tatra  jagmatus  tau 
surottamau  \  jrimbhitam  tad  dhanur  drishtvd  ^aivam  Fishnu-pardhramaih  \ 
adhiham  menire  Vishnum  devdh  sarshi-gands  tathd  \  dhanu  Rudras  tu 
gankruddho  Yideheshu  mahdyasdh  \  Devardtasya  rdjarsher  dadau  haste 
sa-sdyakam  \  idam  tu  Vaishnavam  Pdma  dhanuh  para-puranjayam  \ 
Richlke  Bhdrgme  prdddd  Vishmh  sa  nyasam  uttamam  |  "  The  gods 
then  all  made  a  request  to  Brahma,  desiring  to  find  out  the  strength 
and  weakness  of  S'itikantha  (Mahadeva)  and  Vishnu.  Brahma,  most 
excellent  of  the  true,  learning  the  purpose  of  the  gods,  created  enmity 
between  the  two.  In  this  state  of  enmity  a  great  and  terrible  fight 
ensued  between  S'itikantha  and  Vishnu,  each  of  whom  was  eager  to 


REGARDING  PARAS'URAMA  AND  RAMA.  177 

conquer  the  other.  S'iva's  bow  of  dreadful  power  was  then  relaxed, 
and  the  three-eyed  Mahadeva  was  arrested  by  a  muttering.  These  two 
eminent  deities  being  entreated  by  the  assembled  gods,  rishis,  and 
Charanas,  then  became  pacified.  Seeing  that  the  bow  of  S'iva  had  been 
relaxed  by  the  prowess  of  Vishnu,  the  gods  and  rishis  esteemed  Vishnu 
to  be  superior."'  Then  the  illustrious  Eudra,  incensed,  gave  the  bow 
and  arrows  into  the  hand  of  the  royal  rishi  Devarata  [who  dwelt]  among 
the  Videhas.  But  this,  Eama,  is  the  bow  of  Vishnu,  which  vanquishes 
hostile  cities.  Vishnu  gave  this  excellent  deposit  to  Eiohika,  the 
descendant  of  Bhrigu."  From  him  it  came  to  Jamadagni,  father  of 
Parasurama.  After  referring  to  his  father's  murder  by  Arjuna,""  and 
his  own  subsequent  history,  Parasurama  repeats  that  he  had  heard  of 
Eama's  prowess  in  breaking  the  other  bow,  and  again  asks  him  to  bend 
Vishnu's ;  and  in  the  event  of  his  succeeding,  again  offers  to  fight  him. 
Kama  replies  (section  76)  that  though  his  warlike  qualities  are  con- 
temned by  his  rival,  he  will  give  him  a  proof  of  his  powers.  He  then 
snatches,  in  anger,  the  bow  from  the  hand  of  Parasurama,  bends  it,  fits 
an  arrow  on  the  string ;  and  tells  his  challenger  that  he  will  not  shoot  at 
him  because  he  is  a  Brahman,  and  for  the  sake  of  his  kinsman  Visva- 
mitra ;  but  will  either  destroy  his  superhuman  capacity  of  movement,  or 
deprive  him  of  the  blessed  abodes  he  has  acquired  by  austerity.  The 
gods  now  arrive  to  be  witnesses  of  the  scene.  Parasurama  becomes 
disheartened  and  powerless,  and  humbly  entreats  that  he  may  not  be 
deprived  of  his  faculty  of  movement  (lest  he  should  be  incapacitated 
from  fulfilling  his  promise  to  KaSyapa  to  leave  the  earth  every  night), 
but  consents  that  his  blissful  abodes  may  be  destroyed.  He  then  goes 
on,  V.  17  (Schlegel's  and  Bombay  editions = sect.  77,  49  ff.  of  Gorresio): 
A.kshayam,  Madhuhantaram  jdndmi  tvdm  mahesvaram  (or  suresvaram)  { 
dhanusho  'si/a  pardmaridt  svasti  te  'stu  parantapa  \  18\  ete  sura-gandh 
sarve  nirlksMnte  samdgatdh  \  tvdm  apratima-hwrmdnam  apratidvandvam 
dhave  \  19  \  na  cheyam  mama  Kdhutstha  vrldd  Ihamitum  arhati  \  tvaya, 
trailokya-ndthena  yad  aham  vimukhihritah  \  17.  "By  the  bending  of 

1S9  The  orthodox  commentator  (in  the  Bombay  edition)  will  not  allow  this  to  be 
taken  absolutely.  He  says  :  Vastutas  iu  pralcrita-yuddhe  Vishnor  adhikya-dcrrsamat 
Tripwra-badhe  S'ivasya  adhikya-darianat  tayoh  samya-grahanam  iti  tatparyam  |  "  In 
reality,  as  we  find  that  Vishnu  is  the  stronger  in  the  fight  before  us,  whilst  S'iva  is 
stronger  in  the  slaughter  of  Tripura,  the  result  is  that  their  equality  must  be  assumed." 

""  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  second  edition,  pp.  449  fi'. 

VOL..  IT.  12 


178       QUOTATION  EEGAEDING  EAMA  FROM  THE  TUDDHA. 

this  bow  I  recognize  thee  to  be  the  imperishable  slayer  of  Madhu, 
the  great  Lord  (or  lord  of  the  Gods)  :  hail,  vanquisher  of  thy  foes ! 
18.  All  these  assembled  gods  behold  thee  who  art  unequalled  in  action, 
unrivalled  in  flght.  19.  It  need  be  no  cause  of  shame  to  me  that  I 
have  been  humbled  by  thee  who  art  the  lord  of  the  three  worlds." 
Eama  then  shoots  the  arrow,  and  destroys  Parasurama's  abodes. 

In  whatever  light  the  author  of  these  lines  may  really  have  looked 
upon  Yishnu,  whether  as  identical  with  the  supreme  Spirit  or  not,  the 
passage  itself  contains  no  epithet  or  expression  which  necessitates  such 
an  interpretation.  At  the  same  time  it  is  to  be  observed  that  the  Vishnu 
Parana  (see  WUson's  trans,  pp.  594  ff.  4to.  ed.=pp.  114  ff.  vol.  v.  of 
Dr.  Hall's  ed.),  the  Harivamsa  (sections  183  and  184),  and  the  Bhaga- 
vata  Purana  (x.,  64th  and  previous  sections),  which  indubitably  regard 
Vishnu  as  the  supreme  Deity,  also  relate  a  combat  between  him  and 
Mahadeva.  There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that  the  119th  section  of 
the  Tuddha  Eanda  of  the  Eamayana,  which  I  now  proceed  to  quote 
from  the  text  of  the  edition  published  some  years  ago  at  Bombay, 
distinctly  speaks  of  Eama  as.  an  incarnation  of  the  supreme  Spirit. 
This  Bombay  text,  though  it  follows  the  Devanagari  recension  of 
Upper  India,  does  not,  in  this  section,  differ  materially,  except  in 
the  arrangement  of  the  verses,  from  that  of  Gorresio.  I  should  judge, 
from  the  nature  of  the  epithets  which  are  here  applied  to  Vishnu,  that 
this  chapter,  as  it  now  stands,  could  not  have  formed  part  of  the 
original  Eamayana.  In  the  preceding  portion  of  the  poem  it  had  been 
related  that  Sita,  after  being  recovered  by  Eama  on  the  defeat  and  death 
of  Eavana,  had  been  suspected  of  unchastity  by  her  husband,  and  had 
in  consequence  entered  the  fire.     The  119th  section  then  goes  on  thus: 

Tuddha-Kanda,  sect.  119,  Iff. Рђћ Tato  M  durmandh  Samah  h-uivaivam 
vadatam girah\  dadhya/a muhurtam dharmatma  ms})^a-vydhula-lochanah\ 
tato  VaUraoano  raja  YamaS  cha  pitrilhih  saha  \  Sahasrdksha^  oha  deveso 
Varunaicha  jaleharah  \  shad-ardha-nayanah  kriman  Mahadevo  vfisha- 
doajah  \  Icarta  sarvmya  lohasya  Brahma  Irahma-viddm  varah  \  ["'  sa  oha 
rdjdBa&a/rathovim&nenantarlksha-gah  \  ahhyajagama  tain  deiam  deva-raja- 
sama-dyutih  |  ]  ete  sarve  samagamya  vimdnaih  surya-mnniihaih  \  dgamya 
nagarlm  Lankdm  aihijagmuk  cha  Rdghavam  \  tatah  ga-hastdhharandn 
pragrihyavipuldn  Ihiy'dn  \  abruvan  tridasa-Sreshihdh  Raghavam prdnjalim 
"1  This  verse  is  found  in  Gorresio's  edition  only,  not  in  that  of  Bombay. 


KAnDA  of  the  EAMATANA  with  remakes.      179 

sthitam  I  karta  sa/rvasya  loMsya  Sreshtho  jnanavidam  vibhuh  \  upehhase 
kafhaffi  Sltara  patanttm  havyavahme  \  haiham  deva-gana-ireshtham 
uimanam  navaludhyase  \  ]^ita-dMm&  Vasu),  purvam  Vasunam  cha 
Prajapatih  \  tvam  trayanam  hi  loMndm  ddikartd  svayam  pralhuh  \ 
Btidrdndm  ashtamo  Budrah  Sddhydndm  apipanchamah  \  Akinau  chdpi  te 
harmu  chmdrddityau  cha  chahhusM  \  ante  ehddau  cha  hhutdndm  drisyase 
tvam paraniapa  |  upehhase  cha  Vaidehim  manushah prahrita  yathd  \  ity  ukto 
lohapdlais  taih  svdmi  lokasy-a  Bdffhavah  \  ahravU  iridaia-ireshthdn  Ramo 
dharmd-bhrUdm  va/rali  \  dtmdnam  mdnmham  manye  Rdmam  Dakarathdt- 
majam  \  so  'ham  yaScha  yata^  chdham  bhagavams  tad  hravltu  me  \  iti  bruva- 
$am  Kakutstham  Brahmd  brahma-vidam  varah  \  abravlt  irinu  me  vdhyam 
^atyam  satya-parakrama\  bhavdn  Nardyanah  devah  SrimamS chakrdyudhah 
prabhuh  \  ekariringo  vardhas  tvam  bJtuta-bhiwya-sapatna-jit\aksharam  Brah- 
ma satyam  cha  madhye  chdnte  cha  Bdgha/ea  \  lokandm  tvam  pa/ro  dho/rmo 
Vishvaksenai  ehaturbhujah  \  Sarnga-dhamod  Srishlkeiah  purushah  puru- 
shottamah  \  ajitah  khadgardhrig  Vishrmh  Krishnas  chaiva  vrihadbalah  | 
Sendnlr  grdmamh  satyas  tvam  buddhis  tvam  kshamd  damah  \  prahhavaS 
fhdpyayai  cha  tvam  Upendro  Madhusudanah  |  Indra-karma  Mahendras 
tvam.  padmandbho  randnta-krit  \  karanyoMi  iaranam  cha  tvam  dhur  divydh 
maharshayah  I  sahasra-iringio  veddtmd  hta-ilrshah  maharshabhah  \  tvam 
tra/ydndm  hi  lokdndrn  adi-kartd  svayam  prabhuh  |  siddhdndm  api  sddh- 
ySndm  d^raya^  chasi  purvcy'a  \  tvam  yajnas  tvam  vashatkdras  tvam 
omlcdrah  pardt  parah  \  prabha/eam  nidhanam  vd  te  na  viduh  ko  bhavdn 
iti  I  drisyase  sarva-bhuteshu  brdhmaneshu  cha  geshu  cha  \  dikshu  sarvSsu 
gagane  parvateshu  nadishu  cha  \  sahasra-eharanah  irimdn  sata-Sirshdh 
^ahasra-drih  \  tvam  dharayasi  bhutdni  vasudhdm  cha  sa-parvatdm  |  ante 
prithivydh  salile  driiyase  tvam  mahoragah  \  trin  lokdn  dhdrayan  Rama 
deva-ga/ndhwrva-ddnmdn  \  aham  te  hridayam  Bdmajihvd  devi  Sarasvati  | 
devdh  romdni  gdtreshu  Brahmana  nirmitdh  prabho  \  nimeshas  te  smritd 
rdtrir  unmesho  divasas  tathd  |  samskdrds  te  'bhavan  veddh  naitad  asti 
tvayd  vind  |  j'agat  sarvam  iariram  te  sthairyam  te  vasudhd-talam  \  Agnih 
kopah  prasddas  te  Somah  hwatsalahshana  \  tvayd  lokds  trayah  krdntdh 
pwd  svair  vikramais  tribhih  \  Mahendrai  cha  krito  rajd  Balim  baddhvd 
suddrunpim  \  [^'Рќа'"yat  parafh  Sriiyatejyotir  yat  paramiruyateta^ah  |  yat 
param  paratai  chaiva  paramdlmeti  kathyase  \  pa/ramakhyam  param  yach 
cha  tvam  eva  parigvgase  \  sthity-utpatti-vindidndm  tvdm  dhuh  paramdm 
'"  These  two  verses  occur  in  Gorresio's  edition  only,  not  in  that  of  Bombay. 


180  TEANSLATION  OF  THE  PASSAGE  FROM  THE 

gatim  \  ]  Slta  Lahshmir  hhmdn  Vishnur  devah  Erishnah  priy'dpatih  ( 
badhdrtham  Eavanasyeha  prcwishto  manusMm  tanum  ityadi  | 

"  Then  the  righteous  Kama,  dejected,  on  hearing  the  words  of  those 
who  thus  spoke,  meditated  for  a  moment,  with  his  eyes  disturbed  by 
tears.  Then  Eng  Kuvera,  and  Tama  with  the  Pitris,  and  Indra,  lord 
of  the  gods,  and  Varuna,  lord  of  the  waters,  and  the  glorious  three- 
eyed  Mahadeva,  whose  ensign  is  a  buU,  and  Brahma,  the  creator  of  the 
whole  world,  the  most  eminent  of  the  knowers  of  the  Yeda;  [*and 
that  King  Dasaratha,  moving  in  the  air  on  a  celestial  car,  arrived  in 
that  region,  equal  in  lustre  to  the  king  of  the  gods]  ;  these  aU  having 
come  on  cars  brilliant  as  the  sun,  and  arrived  in  the  city  of  Lanka, 
came  near  to  Eaghava  (Eama).  Then  these  most  eminent  gods, 
holding  the  large  arms  of  Eama,  adorned  with  armlets,  addressed  him 
as  he  stood  with  joined  hands :  '  How  dost  thou,  the  maker  of  the 
whole  universe,  the  most  eminent  of  the  wise,  the  pervading,  disregard 
Slta' 8  throwing  herself  into  the  fire  ?  How  dost  thou  not  perceive 
thyself  to  be  the  chief  of  the  host  of  the  gods  ?  [Thou  wast]  formerly 
the  Vasu  Eitadhaman,  and  the  Prajapati  of  the  Vasus.  Thou  art 
the  primal  maker  of  the  three  worlds,  the  self-dependent  lord,  the 
eighth  Eudra  of  the  Eudras,  and  the  fifth  of  the  Sadhyas.  The  A^vins 
are  thine  ears,  the  Moon  and  Sun  thine  eyes.  Thou,  vexer  of  thy 
foes,  art  seen  in  the  end  and  at  the  beginning  of  created  things.  And 
yet  thou  disregardest  Sita  like  a  common  man.'  Being  thus  addressed 
by  these  guardians  of  the  world,  Eama,  the  lord  of  the  world,  chief  of 
the  supporters  of  righteousness,  said  to  the  most  eminent  gods,  '  I  re- 
gard myself  as  a  man,"^  Eama,  son  of  Daiaratha ;  do  you,  divine  being, 
tell  me  who  and  whence  I  am.'     Brahma,  chief  of  the  knowers  of  the 

"3  In  the  parts  of  the  Mahabharata  where  Krishna  is  identified  with  the  supreme 
Deity,  he  is  always  represented  as  perfectly  conscious  of  his  true  character.  The 
commentator  explains  away  this  eleventh  verse  in  the  following  manner :  Atha  Brah- 
manugrahad  eva  Brahma-vidyaimniuTchyasya  iruty-adi-siddhataya  tad-aunmulcyasya 
" atmanam  navaludhyase"  iti  Brahmanaiva  kritatmt  taj-jijnasur  iva  svlyanam  sva- 
avarvpa-iodhamaya  Brahmanam  gurmn  ajnah  iva  upasad  ity  aha  "atmanam"  iti  \ 
"As  it  is  established  by  the  Veda,  etc.,  that  the  aspiration  after  the  science  of  Brahma 
comes  only  from  the  grace  of  Brahma,  and  since  Brahma  had  just  prompted  that 
aspiration  by  the  words  '  how  dost  thou  not  perceive  thyself  P '  Eama,  assuming  the 
appearance  of  a  desire  to  know,  with  the  view  of  explaining  his  nature  to  his 
(worshippers),  applies  to  Brahma,  as  an  ignorant  student  to  his  teacher,  and  says,  'I 
regard  myself,'  etc." 


TUDDHA  KANDA  OF  THE  RAMATANA  WITH  NOTES.         181 

Veda,  replied  to  Kakutstha  (Eama)  thus  speaking:  'Hear  my  true 
Рќаword,  0  being  of  genuine  power.  Thou  art  the  god,  the  glorious  lord, 
Narayana,  armed  with  the  discus.  Thou  art  the  one-homed  boar, 
the  conqueror  of  thy  foes,  past  and  future,  the  true,  imperishable 
Brahma,  both  in  the  middle  and  end.  Thou  art  the  supreme  righteous- 
ness of  the  worlds,  Yishvaksena,  the  four-armed;  the  bearer  of  the  bow, 
S'arnga,  Hrishlke^a  (lord  of  the  senses),  Purusha  (the  male),  the  highest 
of  Purushas,  the  unconquered,  sword-'wielding,  Vishnu,  and  Krishna  "* 
of  mighty  force,,  the  general,  the  leader,  the  true.  Thou  art  intelligence, 
thou  art  patience,  and  self-restraint.  Thou  art  the  source  of  being 
and  cause  of  destruction,  TJpendra  (the  younger  Indra),  and  Madhu- 
sudana.  Thou  art  Mahendra  (the  elder  Indra)  fulfilling  the  function 
of  Indra,  he  from  whose  navel  springs  a  lotus,  the  ender  of  battles. 
The  great  divine  rishis  call  thee  the  refuge,  the  resort  of  suppliants. 
Thou  art  the  thousand-horned,  composed  of  the  Veda,  the  hundred- 
headed,  the  mighty.  Thou  art  the  primal  maker  of  the  three  worlds,  the 
self-dependent  lord,  and  the  refuge  of  the  Siddhas  and  Sadhyas,  O  tbou 
primevally  bom.  Thou  art  sacrifice,  thou  art  the  vashatkara,  and  the 
omkara,  higher  than  the  highest.  Men  know  not  who  thou  art,  the 
source  of  being,  or  the  destroyer.  Thou  art  seen  in  all  creatures,  in 
Brahmans  and  in  cows,  in  all  the  regions,  in  the  mountains  and  rivers, 
thousand-footed,  glorious,  hundred-headed,  thousand-eyed.  Thou  sus- 
tainest  creatures,  and  the  earth  with  its  mountains;  thou  art  seen, 
Eama,  at  the  extremity  of  the  earth,  in  the  waters,  a  mighty  serpent 
supporting  the  three  worlds,  gods,  Gandharvas,  and  Danavas.  I  am 
thy  heart,  Eama,  the  goddess  SarasvatI  is  thy  tongue.  The  gods  have 
been  made  by  Brahma  the  hairs  on  thy  limbs.  The  night  is  called  the 
closing,  and  the  day  the  opening,  of  thine  eyes.  The  Vedas  are  thy 
thoughts."'  This  [universe]  exists  not  without  thee.  The  whole 
world  is  thy  body;  the  earth  is  thy  stability.  Agni  is  thine  anger, 
Soma  is  thy  pleasure,  0  thou  whose  mark  is  the  S'rivatsa.    By  thee 

"*  If  this  means,  as  it  seems  to  do,  Krishna,  the  son  of  Devaki,  it  must,  if  not  an 
anachronism,  be  intended  as  prophetic.  The  commentator,  both  here  and  further  on, 
makes  it  mean  merely  the  "  blaek-coloured  "  {Jerishnas  tad-varmK). 

"'  The  commentator  explains  samskarah  thus :  Scmskriyimte  lodhyante  ebhir  lolcalj, 
iti  samskarah  prmritti-nivritti-vyaAjastha-bodkakalj,  \  "iSanskaras  are  the  things  by 
which  people  are  instructed,  the  things  which  prescribe  the  rules  of  acting  and  for- 
bearing to  act."    But  this  cannot  well  be  the  sense  here. 


182  KRISHNA  THE  SON  OP  DEVAKI 

the  tliree  worlds  were  traversed  of  yore  with,  thy  three  paces,  and 
Mahendra  was  made  king  after  thou  hadst  bound  the  terrible  Bali. 
[*That  which  is  known  as  this  ohiefest  light,  that  which  is  known  as 
the  ohiefest  darknessj  that  which  is  higher  than  the  highest, Рђћ thou 
art  called  the  highest  Soul.  It  is  thou  who  art  hymned  as  that  which 
is  called  the  highest,  and  [is]  the  highest.  Men  caU  thee  the  highest 
source  of  cbntinuance,  production,  and  destruction.]  Sita  is  Lakshml,"' 
and  thou  art  Vishnu,  the  divine  Krishna,  the  lord  of  creatures,  who 
hast  entered  a  mortal  body  for  the  slaughter  of  Eavana,'  "  etc. 

In  the  same  way  as  Vishnu  is  associated  with  llama  in  the  Eama- 
yana,  so  is  he  connected  with  Krishna  in  the  Mahabharata,  the  Vishnu, 
Bhagavata,  and  Brahtaa-vaivartta,  Puranas,  and  other  Vaishnava  works 
of  a  later  date.  In  the  two  first-named  Puranas,  though  Krishna  is 
sometimes  spoken  of  as  a  partial  incarnation  of  Vishau  (see  the  passage 
from  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  x.  33,  27,  quoted  above,  p.  50,  and  another 
from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  which  will  be  adduced  below),  he  is  generally 
regarded  as  a  perfect  manifestation  of  that  deity,  who,  again,  is  iden- 
tified with  the  supreme  Spirit.  In  the  Mahabharata Рђћ 'which,  as  we  have 
seen,  contains  a  vast  coUection  of  heterogeneous  materials  originating 
in  different  ages,  and  embodying  the  opiiiions  of  various  sects Рђћ we 
shall  find  that  Krishna  is  diversely  represented  in  different  parts  of 
the  work.  I  have  already  (p.  169)  quoted  some  remarks  of  Professors 
WUson  and  Lassen  on  this  subject.  According  to  these  authors  Krishna, 
in  so  far  as  he  is  introduced  as  ah  actor  in  the  events  of  the  poem,  is 
generally  made  to  play  a  merely  human  part,  and  to  manifest  no  super- 
human power  in  succouring  friends,  or  overcoming  enemies ;  while,  as 
Professor  Wilson  remarks,  his  divine  character  is  frequently  disputed. 
In  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad  he  is  spoken  of  simply  as  the  son  of 
Devakl.  In  various  parts  of  the  Mahabharata  he  is  described  as 
rendering  homage  to  Mahadeva,  and  as  receiving  from  him  boons  of 
various  kinds.  In  many  passages  he  is  identified  with  the  rishi  Nara- 
yana,  while  his  friend  Arjuna  appears  as  one  with  the  rishi  Kara,  the 
inseparable  companion  of  the  former^  In  these  various  passages, 
however,  Krishna  is  by  no  means  regarded  in  general  as  an  ordinary 
mortal.     He  receives  various  divine  weapons  from  Mahadeva;   in  his 

"6  In  regard  to  Lakshmi  and  S'ri,  see  the  fifth  VOliime  of  this  work,  pp.  348  f. 


MENTIONED  IN  THE  CHHANDOGTA  UPANISHAD.  183' 

character  as  the  riahi  Narayana,  he  lives  through  successive  ages,  and 
displays  superhuman  faculties.  Even  while  acting  as  the  ally  of  the 
Pandas,  he  destroys  S'i^upala  Supernaturally  with  his  discus.  And  in 
numerous  passages  he  is  identified  in  the  clearest  manner  with  Vishnu, 
who  again,  as  I  have  said,  is  commonly  assumed  to  he  one  with  the 
supreme  Spirit.  I  shall  iow  proceed  to  adduce  a  variety  of  passages 
illustrative  of  these  various  assertions. 

I.  The  following  short  passage  from  the  Chhandogya  Upanishad 
(pp.  220  ff.  of  the  Bibl.  Ind.)  is,  I  believe,  the  oldest  text  yet  known 
in  which  Krishna  the  son  of  Devaki  is  mentioned.  It  is  extremely 
unfortunate  that  it  is  so  brief;  that  it  leaves  us  without  any  particulars 
of  a  personage  about  whom  we  should  have  been  glad  to  possess  the 
fullest  details,  who  in  after-times  became  so  famous  as  to  obtain  the 
honour  of  deification, Рђћ excejjt  the  meagre  information  that  he  was  the 
son  of  Devaki,  the  pupU  of  a  teacher  named  Ghora,"'  and  that  he  was 
so  enthusiastically  devoted  to  the  pursuit  of  mystical  lore  as  to  become 
indifferent  to  everything  else : 

Tad  ha  dad  Ghorah  Angirasah  Krislmaya  Bevakt-putrdya  uktva 
uvdcha  apipdsah  eva  sa  halhilva  so  'nta-veldydm  etat-trayam  pratipadyeta 
"  ahshitam  asy  achyutam  asi prdm-mmMtam  asi"  iti  \  "  Grhora,  the  de- 
scendant of  Angiras,  having  declared  this  [the  preceding  mystical 
lore]  to  Erishna  the  son  of  Devaki,  said  to  him  that  [which,  when  he 
heard],  he  became  free  from  thirst  [i.e.  desire],  viz. :  '  let  a  man  at 
the  time  of  his  death  have  recourse  to  these  three  texts,  '  Thou  art  the 
undecaying,  thou  art  the  imperishable,  thou  art  the  subtile  principle  of 
breath.'  " 

I  quote  some  of  the  commentator's  remarks  on  this  important  text : 

Tad  ha  etad  ycyna-dwrsanafh  Ghoro  ndmatah  Angiraso  ffbtfatah  Krish- 
ndya  Demkl-putraya  iishydyd  uktvd  uvdcha  \  tad  "  etat  tfaymn,  "  ityddi 
vymahitma  samiandhah  \  sa  cha  etad  darianam  irutvd  apipdsah  eva 
anydhhyo  vidydlho  halhuva  \  ittham  cha  viiishtd  iyam  vidyd  yat  Krish- 
nasya  Devaki-putrasya  anyam  vidydm  prati  tri^-vichheda-kari  iti 
pwusha-yajna-vidydm  stauti  \  Ghorah  Angirasah  Erishndya  uktvd  imam 
vidydm  Mm  uvdeha  iti  tad  aha  \  sa  evafh.  yathokta'yajna-vid  anta-veld- 
ydm  marana-kdle  etan-mawtra-trayam,  pratipadyeta  japed  ity  arthah  \ 

"'  i  am  not  aware  whether  Ghora  is  mettiohed  in  ooimexion  with  Krishna  in  any 
other  work. 


184    PASSAGE  OF  THE  MAHABHAEATA  IN  "WHICH  KRISHNA 

....  pram-saih^tam  pranasya  mmiitam  samyak  tanukritancha  suksh- 
mam  tattvam  asi  .  .  .  .  \  "A  person,  Ghora  by  name,  and  an  Angi- 
rasa  by  family,  having  declared  this  doctrine  of  sacrifice  to  Krishna 
the  son  of  DevakI,  his  pupil,  then  said,  etc.  The  connexion  of  the  last 
word  'said,'  is  with  the  words  which  occur  some  way  below,  'these 
three,'  etc.  And  having  heard  this  doctrine,  he  became  free  from  desire 
for  any  other  kinds  of  knowledge.  In  this  manner  he  praises  this 
knowledge  of  the  Purusha-saeriflce  by  sajdng  that  it  was  so  distinguished 
that  it  destroyed  all  thirst  in  Krishna,  the  son  of  Devaki,  for  any  other 
knowledge.  He  now  tells  us  what  Ghora  Angirasa  said  after  declaring 
this  knowledge  to  Krishna.  It  was  this  :  '  Let  him  who  knows  the 
aforesaid  sacrifice,  at  the  time  of  his  death  have  recourse  to,  mutter, 
these  three  texts;  ....  pram-samsitam  means,  'thou  art  the  very 
minute,  and  subtile  principle  of  breath.'  " 

II.  I  shall  next  quote  some  passages  of  the  Mahabharata  in  which 
Krishna  is  represented  as  rendering  homage  to  Mahadeva,  and  conse- 
quently, to  all  appearance,  as  acknowledging  his  own  inferiority  to 
that  deity.  It  is  related  in  the  Vana-parvan  (vv.  1513-1656),  in  a 
passage  which  I  shall  quote  further  on,  that  Arjuna  goes  to  supplicate 
Mahadeva  for  celestial  weapons,  and  obtains  from  him  the  Pasupata. 

At  a  later  stage  of  the  poem  (Drona-parvan,  v.  2838)  Aijuna  is 
advised  by  Krishna  to  apply  again  to  Mahadeva  for  the  same  Pasupata 
weapon,  as  if  the  author  (if  indeed  he  is  the  same  by  whom  the  earlier 
passage  was  written)  had  forgotten  that  he  had  already  got  it.  Arjuna, 
it  appears,  had  vowed  (vv.  2681  ff.)  to  slay  Jayadratha  on  the  follow- 
ing day,  though  all  the  inferior  deities  should  stand  forward  as  his 
protectors.  Subsequently,  however,  he  becomes  dejected,  reflecting  that 
the  enemy's  leaders  would  do  their  utmost  to  preserve  Jayadratha,  and 
that  he  would  thus  be  unable  to  fulfil  his  promise  (vv.  2830  ff.). 
Krishna  hereupon  advises  Arjuna  to  supplicate  Mahadeva  for  the  Pasu- 
pata weapon  with  which  that  god  himself  had  formerly  destroyed  all  the 
Daityas,  and  with  which  he  (Arjuna)  would  be  able  to  slay  Jayadratha 
on  the  morrow  (vv.  2838  ff.).  Arjuna  and  Krishna  then  arrive  with 
the  speed  of  the  wind,  at  the  mountain  on  the  summit  of  which 
Mahadeva  abode,  where  they  obtain  a  vision  of  that  deity,  with  Par- 
vatl  and  his  attendant  Bhutas  (demons).  On  seeing  him  Va^udeva 
(Krishna)  bows  down  to  the  earth : 


IS  EEPEESENTED  AS  WORSHIPPING  MAHADEVA.  185 

Mahabharata,  Drona-parTan,  vv.  2862  ┬Бf. Рђћ  Vdsudevas  tu  tarn  drishtva 
jagama  Mrasa  hshitim  \  Farthena  saha  dharmatma  grinan  hrahma  sana- 
tanam  \  lokadim  viha-harmamm  ajam  Udnam  avyayam  \  manasah  para- 
mam  yonim  kham  vdyuM  jyotisha'ffb  nidhim,  \  srash{ara0i  mridharanam 
hhuvakha  prakritim  param,  \  deva-ddnma-yahhdndm  mdncmdndnoha 
sddhanam  |  yogdndnoJia  param  Irahma  triptam  Irahma-viddm  nidhim  \ 
chardcha/rasya  srashtdram  pratihartdram,  eva  oha  \  kdla-kopam  mahdt- 
mdnam  iakra-surya-gunodayam  \  vmande  tarn  tadd  Krishno  vdn-mano 
huddhi-karmalhih  |  yam  prapadyanti  vidvdmsah  sukshmddhydima-padai- 
shinah  |  tarn  ajaih  kdrandtmanam  jagmatuh  iaranam  Bhavam  \  Arjunai 
chdpi  tain  devam  bhuyo  bhuyo  'py  avandata  \  jndtvd  tarn  sarva-bhutddim 
hhuta-bhaoya-lhavodhhavam  \  tatas  tdv  dgatau  drishtva  Na/ra-Ndrdyanav 
ulhau  I  supraaanna-mandh  S'a/rvah  provdoha  prahasann  iva  |  agatam  mm 
na/ra-ireshthav  uttishthetam  gata-klamau  \  kincha  vdm  ipsitam  vlrau 
manasah  kshipram  uohyatam  \  yena  karyena  samprdptau  yuvdm  tat  sddha- 
ydmikim  \  vriyatdm  dtmanah  ireyas  tat  sarvam  pradadami  vdm  | 

"  The  righteous  Vasudeva  (Krishna)  then,  together  with  the  son  of 
Pritha  (Arjuna),  reciting  the  eternal  Veda,  bowed  his  head  to  the 
ground,  beholding  him,  the  source  of  the  worlds,  the  maker  of  the 
universe,  the  unborn,  the  imperishable  lord,  the  supreme  source  of 
mind,  the  sky,  the  wind,  the  abode  of  the  luminaries,  the  creator  of  the 
oceans,  the  supreme  substance  of  the  earth,  the  framer  of  gods,  Danavas, 
Takshas,  and  men,  the  supreme  Brahma  of  meditative  systems,  the  satis- 
fled,  the  treasure  of  those  who  know  Brahma,  the  creator  of  the  world, 
and  also  its  destroyer,  the  great  impersonated  destructive  "Wrath,  the 
original  of  the  attributes  of  Indra  and  Surya.  Erishna  then  reverenced 
him  with  voice,  mind,  understanding,  and  act."*  Those  two  [heroes] 
had  recourse  to  Bhava  (Mahadeva)  as  their  refuge, Рђћ to  him  whom  the 
wise,  desiring  the  subtile  spiritual  abode,  attain, Рђћ to  him  the  unborn 
cause.  Arjuna,  too,  again  and  again  reverenced  that  deity,  knowing 
him  to  be  the  beginning  of  all  beings,  the  source  of  the  past,  the 
future,  and  the  present.    Beholding  those  two,  Nara  and  Narayana, 

"^  In  a  passage  from  the  S'antiparran,  vv.  13162  ff.,  which  I  shall  quote  further  on, 
Krishna  explains  away  the  worship  which  here  and  elsewhere  he  is  said  to  have 
rendered  to  Mahadeva,  hy  saying  that  it  was  done  for  the  sake  of  example  to  others, 
and  was  in  reality  offered  to  himself,  Mahadeva  heing  one  of  his  manifestations,  and, 
in  fact,  one  with  him.    But  no  hint  is  given  of  this  here. 


186  PASSAGES  OF  THE  MAHABHAEATA  EEUAEDING 

arrived,  S'arva  (Mahadeva),  then  greatly  gratified,  said,  as  if  smiling : 
'  "Welcome,  most  eminent  of  men,  rise  up  freed  from  fatigue,  and  teU 
me  quickly,  heroes,  what  your  mind  desireSi  Shall  I  accomplish  for 
you  the  object  for  which  you  have  come  ?  Choose  what  is  most  for 
your  welfare.     I  will  give  you  all.'  " 

Krishna  and  Arjuna  then  recite  a  hymn  in  honour  of  Mahadeva,  in 
the  course  of  which  he  is  designated  as  the  "  soul  of  aU  things,  the 
creator  of  all  things,  and  the  pervader  of  all  things  "  {visvatmane  viSm- 
srije  nsvam  avfitya  tishthaU).  Atjuna  now,  after  reverencing  both 
Erishna  and  Mahadeva,  asks  the  latter  for  the  celestial  weapon.  They 
are  thereupon  sent  by  Mahadeva  to  a  lake  where  he  says  he  had 
formerly  deposited  his  bow  and  arrows.  They  there  saw  two  serpents, 
One  of  which  was  vomiting  flames,  and  approached  them,  bowing  to 
Mahadeva  and  uttering  the  S'atarudriya."'  Through  the  power  of 
Mahadeva,  the  serpents  change  their  shape  and  become  a  bow  and 
arrow  (v.  2899),  which  Krishna  and  Arjuna  bring  to  Mahadeva. 
Eventually  Arjuna  receives  as  a  boon  from  Mahadeva  the  Pasupata 
weapon,  with  the  power  of  fulfilling  his  engagement  to  slay  Jayadratha 
(vv.  2906  fi'.) ;  after  which  they  both  return  to  their  eamp. 

In  the  Sauptika-parvan,  312  f.,  Mahadeva,  smiling,  as  it  were  {hasann 
iva),  says  to  Asvatthaman  :  Satya-iameharjava-tyagais  tapasa  niyamma 
cha  I  Icshantya  matya  eha  dhritya  eha  huddhya  cha  vachasa  tathd  | 
313.  Tathdvad  aham  draddhah  Krishmndhliskta-karmand  \  tasmdd 
ishtatamah  Krishndd  myo  mama  na  vidyate  \  "I  have  been  duly 
worshipped  by  Krishna,  the  energetic  in  action,  with  truth,  purity, 
honesty,  liberality,  austerity,  ceremonies,  patience,  wisdom,  self- 
control,  understanding  and  words :  wherefore  no  one  is  dearer  to  me 
than  Krishna."  (See  Profi  Monier  Williams's  analysis  of  this  book  in 
his  "Indian  Epic  Poetry,"  pp.  121  ff.) 

In  a  later  part  of  the  same  book  (vv.  765  ff.)  Krishna  thus  celebrates 
the  greatness  of  Mahadeva :  Nunam  sd  deva-devdndm  livareharam 
avyayam  \  jagdma  imramam  Dramir  ekas  tendladhld  tahun  |  766  ] 
prasanno  hi  Mahddevo  dadydd  amaratdm  apt  \  vlrya0i  eha  girUo  dadydd 
y'enendram  api  idtayei  |  767  |  veddham  hi  Mahddevam  tattvena  Bha/rat- 
arshalha  \  ydni  chdsya  purandni  karmuni  viiiidhdiii  cha  |  768  |  ddir 

'"  A  long  hymn  from  thfe  Tajiir-yeda,  which  will  be  quoted  further  on  in  the 
chapter  on  Eudra. 


KRISHNA'S  ADOEATION  OF  MAHADEVA.  187 

esha  hi  Ihutanam  madhyam  antd  cha  Bharata  |  vioheshfate j'agach  chedam 
sanam  asyawa  Jcarmam  \  765.  "  Aavattiaman  resorted  to  the  im- 
perishaUe  lord  of  lords  of  tte  gods  of  gods  as  his  refuge  ;  and  through 
him  he,  though  but  one,  slew  many.  766.  For  Mahadeva,  if  pleased, 
can  bestow  even  immortality,  abd  prowess  whereby  any  one  may 
oTorcome  even  Indra  himself.  767.  I  perfectly  know  Mahadeva,  and 
his  various  works  of  old.  768.  For  he  is  the  beginning,  middle,  and 
end  of  (all)  creatures ;  and  this  entire  world  moves  through  his  agency." 
See  "Williams's  "  Indian  Epic  Poetry,"  p.  123. 

The  Anusasana-parvan  also  contains  several  sections  in  which  the 
praises  of  Mahadeva  are  celebrated  at  considerable  length,  and  in  which 
he  is  declared  to  have  been  worshipped  by  Krishna.  At  v.  588  of  that 
book  Tudhishthira  asks  Bhishma  to  declare  the  names  of  that  deity, 
when  the  latter  replies  as  follows  (vv.  590  ff.)  : 

AUkto  ''ham  gunan  vaMum  MaMdevasyd  dhtmatah  |  yd  hi  sarva'pato 
devo  na  cha  sarvatra  drisyate  \  Brahma- Visfi^u-sureSamm  sra^hta  cha 
prdbhur  eva  cha  \  BrahmadaynJi  Pi&achaniah  yam  hi  devah  upaaate  \  pra- 
krittHdm  paratvena  pwri/mhasfya  cha  yah  parol}  \  chintyate  yo  yoga-'oidhhir 
rishihhis  tattva-dar^ibhih  \  ahharam  paramam  Brahma  asachcha  sad- 
amchcha  yat  \  prahritirn,  pwrushanchaiva  Icshobhayitva  sva-tejasd  |  Brah- 
mdnam  asrijat  tasmdd  deva-devah  prajap&Uh  \  ko  hi  iakto  gunan  vaMuih 
dma-devasya  dhtmatah  |  garlha-janmia-jara-yahto  martyo  mrityu-saman- 
vitah  I  ke  hi  iakto  Bhomam  jnatum  mad-vidhah  Paramesvaram  |  rite 
Narayanat  putra  kinkha-chakra-gada-dhotrdt  \  esha  vidvan  gum' 
sreshtho  Vishnuh  parama-du/rjayah  \  divya-ehakshur  mah&tejah  vtkshyaie 
\yikshate  .^]  yoga-chakshusha  |  Rudra-lhaktyd  tu  Kfishnena  jagad 
vydptam  mahdtmmd  \  tarn  prasddya  tadd  devam  Badarydm  kila 
Bharata  \  arihat  ^"'  priyataratoam  cha  sarva-hkeshu  vai  tadd  \  prdptmdn 
eva  rdjend/ra  suvarfidkshdd  Mahesvardt  j  purnaA  varsha-sahasram  tu 
taptavdn  esha  Mddhavah  j  prasddya  va^sdam  devam  chwrdchara-gv/fum 
S'ivam  [  yuge  yuge  tu  Krishnena  toshito  vai  MaJteharah  \  hhaktyd  para- 
mayd  ehaiva  prltahhaiva  rUdhdtrtianah  \  dii'ddryarh  ^ddrihm  tasya 
jagad-yorier  mahdtmanatt  \  tad  ayam  drishtmdn  sdkshdt  putrdrtfie  Sarir 
achyutah  \  tasmdt  parataranchaiva  ndnyam  paSydmi  Bharata  |  vydkhyd- 
tufh  deva-devasya  iakto  aamdtiy  aieihatah  \  esha  iakto  m'ahdldhur  vaktum 
hhagavato  gunan  \  vihhutinchaiva  kdrtsnyena  satydm  mdheharim  nripa  ' 

""  The  MS.  of  the  Mahabhaxata  in  the  library  of  the  Eoy.  As;  See  reads  annat. 


188     KRISHNA  PEOPITIATES  MAHADEVA  BY  AUSTERITIES, 

"  I  am  unable  to  declare  the  attributes  of  the  wise  Mahadeva,  who  is 
an  all-pervading  god,  yet  is  nowhere  seen,  who  is  the  creator  and  the 
lord  of  Brahma,  Vishnu,'"  and  Indra,  whom  the  gods,  from  Brahma  to 
the  Pi^achas,  worship,  who  transcends  material  natures  as  weU  as  spirit 
(Purusha),  who  is  meditated  upon  by  rishis  versed  in  contemplation 
{yoga),  and  possessing  an  insight  into  truth,  who  is  the  supreme, 
imperishable  Brahma,  that  which  is  both  non-existent,  and  at  once 
existent  and  non-existent.  Having  agitated  matter  and  spirit  by  his 
power,  this  god  of  gods  and  lord  of  creatures  (Prajapati)  thence  created 
Brahma.  What  human  being  like  me,  who  has  been  subject  to  gesta- 
tion in  the  womb,  and  to  birth,  and  is  liable  to  decay  and  death,  can 
declare  the  attributes  of  Bhava,  the  supreme  lord, Рђћ [who  can  do  this] 
except  Narayana,  the  bearer  of  the  shell,  the  discus,  and  the  club? 
This  Vishnu,  wise,  eminent  in  qualities,  very  hard  to  overcome, 
with  divine  insight,  of  mighty  power,  beholds''^  [him]  with  the 
eye  of  contemplation.  Through  his  devotion  to  Eudra,  the  world 
is  pervaded  by  the  mighty  Krishna.  Having  then  propitiated  that 
deity  (Mahadeva)  at  Badari,  he  (Krishna)  obtained  from  the  golden- 
eyed  Mahe^vara  the  quality  of  being  in  all  worlds  more  dear  than 
wealth.  This  Madhava  (Krishna)  performed  austerity  for  a  full 
thousand  years,  propitiating  S^iva,  the  god  who  bestows  boons,  and  the 
preceptor  of  the  world.  But  in  every  mundane  period  {yuga)  Mahes- 
vara  has  been  propitiated  by  Krishna,  and  has  been  gratified  by  the 
eminent  devotion  of  that  great  personage.  This  unshaken  Hari 
(Krishna),  [when  seeking]  for  offspring,  has  beheld  distinctly  of  what 
character  is  the  glory  of  that  great  parent  of  the  world.  Than  him 
I  behold  none  higher.  This  large-armed  [Krishna]  is  able  to  recount 
fully  the  names  of  the  god  of  gods,  to  describe  the  qualities  of  the 
divine  [being],  and  the  real  might  of  Mahesvara  in  aU  its  extent." 

Bhishma  then  calls  upon  Krishna,  whom  he  designates  as  Vishnu, 

"1  Professor  Aufrectt  (Catalogue,  p.  54a,  note)  quotes  the  following  verse  from 
the  65th  chapter  of  the  Vayu  Purana,  as  spoken  hy  Mahadeva :  Ayam  me  dakshino 
bahur  Brahma  loka-piiamahah  |  vamo  bahits  cha  me  Vishnur  nityam  yvddheshv, 
nirjitah  \  "  Brahma,  the  parent  of  the  universe,  is  my  right  arm,  and  Vishnu  is  my 
left  arm,  always  overcome  in  hattles."  Must  not  the  correct  reading  here  be  yuddhesho 
anirjitah,  "unconquered  in  battles"  ? 

"''  The  printed  text  reads  vlkahyaU,  "  is  beheld,"  but  the  sense  seems  to  require 
vT&shate,  "beholds." 


AND  CELEBRATES  HIS  GREATKESS.  189 

and  as  the  divine  teacher  of  gods  and  Asuras  {swdsura-guro  deva 
Vishno),  to  celebrate  Matadeva's  greatness.  Krishna  accordingly  says 
(tv.  610  ff.) : 

Na  gatih  harmanam  kdkya  vettum  ihsya  tattvatah  \  Miranyagarlha- 
pr^mukhah  devdh  sendrah  maharshayah  \  na  vidur  yasya  hhavanam 
Adityah  suhhma-dariinah  \  sa  Icafhark  nara-mdtrena  hJeyoJnatum  satam 
gatih  \  tasydham,  asura-ghnasya  hdmichid  hhagavato  gunan  \  hha/oatdfh, 
klrtayishyami  vratesdya  [prateiasya  ?'\  yathatatham  [  "  The  course  of 
the  deeds  of  Isa  (Mahadeva)  cannot  be  really  known.  He  whose  essence 
neither  the  gods  headed  by  Hiranyagarbha,  nor  the  great  rishis  with 
Indra,  nor  the  Adityas,  the  perceivers  of  the  minutest  objects,  under- 
stand,Рђћ ^how  can  he,  the  refuge  of  saints,  be  known  by  any  mere  man  ? 
I  shaU  declare  to  you  exactly  some  of  the  attributes  of  that  divine 
slayer  of  the  Asuras,  of  the  lord  of  religious  ceremonies." 

Krishna  then  relates  how  he  had  formerly  seen  Mahadeva.  It  appears 
that  his  wife  Jambavati  (v.  616),  daughter  of  the  king  of  the  monkeys  "' 
{kwpmd/ra-pidri,  v.  629),  had  come  to  him  desirous  of  a  son ;  she  says 
(TV.  619  f.): 

Na  hi  te  'prdpyam  usttha  trishu  loTceshu  kinehana  \  lokdn  srijes  tvam 
tt/paran  ichhan  Yadu-lculodvaha  \  tvayd  dvddaSa-varshdni  vratlhhutena 
iushyatd  |  dradhya  paiuhhartdram  Buhminydm  janitdh  sutdh  \  "For 
there  is  nothing  in  these  three  worlds  unattainable  by  thee  (Krishna). 
Thou,  scion  of  the  race  of  Yadu,  couldst  create  other  worlds.'**  By 
thee,  after  twelve  years'  fasting  and  mortification,'"  and  worship  of 
the  nourisher  of  beasts  (Mahadeva),  'sons  were  begotten  on  Eukmini 
(another  of  his  wives)." 

Krishna  promises  to  bring  about  the  accomplishment  of  Jambavati's 
wishes.  The  story  proceeds  that  he  was  then  conveyed  by  the  celestial 
bird  Garuda  to  the  Himalaya  (v.  632),  where  he  sees  the  delightful 
hermitage  of  the  saint  Upamanyu,  which  is  described  at  length  (vv. 
634-652)."'    Krishna  enters,  and  is  reverentially  saluted  by  Upamanyu 

IBS  He  is,  however,  called  king  of  the  bears  in  the  Vishnu  Puiana. Рђћ See  Wilson's 
translation,  p.  427  f.  (vol.  iv.,  pp.  76  and  79  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.) 

"*  Compare  what  is  said  of  Vis'vamitra  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  p.  404. 

'8'  This  twelve  years'  austerity  performed  before  for  the  sake  of  progeny  is  alluded 
to  farther  on  in  the  Anus'asana-parvan,  v.  6397,  and  the  birth  of  a  son  is  mentioned 
V.  6889.  As  Krishna  is  represented  in  that  passage  in  a  higher  character  than  he  is 
in  the  one  before  us,  it  will  be  more  appropriately  quoted  further  on. 

186  One  of  the  features  of  the  hermitage  is  thus  depicted  in  v.  651 :  Krldanti  sar- 


190  TJPAMANTTJ  CELEBRATES  MAHADEVA'S  PRAISES. 

(v.  655),  who  tells  him  that  after  propitiating  Mahadeva  by  austerities, 
he  shall  obtaia  a  son  equal  to  himself  (v.  658).*"  The  saint  then  goes 
on  to  celebrate  the  greatness  of  Mahadeva,  who,  he  said,  had  given 
boons  to  various  beings,  and  to  Vishnu  his  discus  (vv.  662  ff.)  : 

Hiranyahaiipur  yo  'Ihud  dana/oo  Meru-lcampamah  \  tena  sarvamaraii- 
var^qm  S'arvdt  prdptaM  samarludam  \  tasyaiva  putra-prmaro  Mm- 
daro  nama  viirutah  \  Mahadeva-varaeh  ehhahram  varsMrhudam  ayod- 
hayat  \  Vishnoi  chakrancha  tad  ghoram  vajram  Akhandahsya  oha  \  ilrnam 
pura  'hhavat  taia  Qrafiasyangeshu  Keswoa  |  yat  tad  hhagavata  punam 
dattam  ehahram  tcmanagha  [j'aldntara-oharam  hatva  daily ancha  lala- 
garvifam  \  utpaditam  Vrishdnlcena  diptam  jvalana-smmibham  \  dattam 
hhagavata  tubhyam  dwdha/rsham  tejasd  'dbhutam  \  na  hiyaih  drashfum 
anyena  varjayitvd  Pindkinam  |  SudaHanam  bhavaty  evam  BhavmoktaSi 
tadd  tu  tat  I  Sudarhnam  tadd  tasya  lake  ndma  pratishthitam  |  tcy 
jirnam  abhavat  tdta  Qrahasydngeahu  Kekava  \  Grahasy&tibalasydnge 
va/radattasya  dMmatah  \  Рќаna  iastrdni  vahanty  ange  chakram  vajra-satdny 
api  I  ardamdndieha  vibudhd  Grahena  subakyasd  |  S'iva-datta-varan 
jaghnur  asurendrdn  Surah  bhriiam  | 

"  Hiranyakasipu,  the  Danava,  the  shaker  of  mount  Meru,  obtained 
from  S'arva  (Mahadeva)  the  sovereignty  of  all  the  immortals  for  a 
hundred  million  years.  He  had  an  eminent  and  renowned  son,  called 
Mandara,  who  by  the  grace  of  Mahadeva  fought  with  Indra  for  a 
hundred  million  years.  Formerly  both  the  dreadful  discus  of  Vishnu 
and  the  thunderbolt  of  Akhandala'**  (Indra)  were  shattered  against 
the  limbs  of  Graha  (Kahu).  That  discus,  resplendent  and  fiery, 
which  was  formerly  given  to  thee  by  the  god  after  slaying  the 
marine  monster,  and  the  Daitya,  proud  of  his  strength,  was  produced 

pair  nahulah  mrigair  vyaghmscha  mitra-vat  |  prahhavad  clTpfa-tapasam  sannikarshad 
mahatmanSm  |  "  Weasels  sport  in  a  friendly  fashion  with  serpents,"  [the  two  kinds  of 
creatures  being  deadly  foes],  "  and  tigers  with  deer,  through  the  power  of  those  saints 
of  brilliant  austerity,  from  the  proximity  of  those  mighty  ones." Рђћ Compare  Isaiah 
xi.  6  ff. :  "  The  wolf  also  shall  dwell  with  the  lamb,  and  the  leopard  shall  lie  down 
with  the  kid,"  etc. 

1*'  In  V.  655  the  appellation  pundar'ikaktha,  "lotus-eyed,"  and  in  t.  659,  that  of 
aihokshaja,  are  applied  to  Krishna. 

IBS  This  word  occurs  in  Eigveda,  -viii.  17,  12,  and  the  words  are  quoted  in  the 
Nirukta,  iii.  10  :  Akhandala  pra  huyase  |  "  0  Akhandala,  or  destroyer,  thou  art  in- 
voked."  It  is  rendered  "shatterer,"  "  destroyer,"  in  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v. 


SOME  OF  MAHADEVA'S  CHAEACTEEISTICS.  191 

by  MaMdeva.**'  Bestowed  upon  thee  by  the  god,  resistless,  and 
wonderful  in  its  patency,  it  could  not  be  looked  upon  by  any  otter 
than  Pinakin  (the  bearer  of  the  bow,  i.e.  Mahadeva).  It  then  re- 
ceived from  Bhava  (Mahadeva)  the  name  of  Sudar^ana,  and  by  that 
name  it  is  celebrated  in  the  world.  That  discus  was  shattered  against 
the  limbs  of  Graha.  On  the  body  of  the  wise  and  very  powerM 
Grraha,  who  had  received  a  boon,  no  weapons,  not  even  the  discus, 
or  a  thousand  thunderbolts,  produce  any  effect.  The  gods  being 
harassed  by  the  most  mighty  Graha,  slew  on  many  occasions  the 
Asuras  who  had  received  boons  from  S'iva." 

After  telLiag  that  many  other  persons  had  obtained  boons  by  worr  f\  '  J 
shipping  Mahadeva,  the  saint  Upamanyu  relates  a  story  about  himself, 
how  his  mother,  after  smelling  him  on  the  head  {murdhany  aghraya) 
had  fuUy  declared  to  him  the  greatness  of  this  deity  (vv.  724  ff.).  In 
addition  to  the  more  general  attributes  assigned  to  the  god,  the  foHowT 
ing  are  some  characteristics  of  a  more  special  description  (some  of  them 
sufficiently  horrible  or  disgusting),  as  detailed  with  admiration  by  this 
female  devotee.  He  assumes  many  forms  of  gods  (as  Brahma,  Vishnu, 
Indra,  Eudra),  and  of  men,  of  goblins,  demons,  barbarians,  tame  and 
wild  beasts,  birds,  reptiles,  fishes,  with  many  varieties  of  human 
disguises,  etc.  (v.  731  ff.).  He  is  the  soul  of  all  the  worlds,  aU-per- 
vading,  residing  in  the  heart  of  all  creatures,  knowing  all  desires 
(v.  742  f.).  He  carries  a  discus,  a  trident,  a  club,  a  sword,  an  axe 
(v.  745).  He  has  a  girdle  of  serpents,  earrings  of  serpents,  a  sacrificial 
cord  of  serpents,  and  an  outer  garment  of  serpents'  skins  (v.  746).  He 
laughs,  sings,  dances  charmingly,  and  plays  various  musical  instruments_ 
(v.  747).  ^e  leaps,  gapes,  weeps,  makes  others  weep  ;  speaks  like  a 
madman  or  a  drunkard,  as  well  as  in  sweet  tones  (v.  748).  He  laughs 
terrifically  (v.  749).  He  is  both  visible  and  invisible,  on  the  altar,  on 
the  sacrificial  post,  in  the  fire,  a  boy,  an  old  man,  a  youth  (v.  751). 
He  dailies  with  the  daughters  and  the  wives  of  the  rishis,  with  erect 
hair,  obscene  appearance,''"  naked,  with  excited  look  (v.  752  :  hridaU 

'*'  In  an  account  of  Krishna's  exploits  in  the  Drona-parvan,  however,  it  is  said  (v. 
402)  that  the  chakra  was  obtained  by  worshipping  Agni :  Khandmie  Fartha-mhitas 
toshayitva  SutaioMeim  \  Agneyatn  astrain  dur^haraham  ohithrark  Ubhe  mahabala^  \ 
In  the  same  passage  (v.  401)  he  is  said  to  ha,ye  obtaijaed  his  shell  [imkha)  by  con- 
quering Panchajana  in  the  infernal  regions. 

"┬╗  Literally,  ingenti  memiro  virili prteditm.    Compare  Sauptika-paryaa,  v.  289. 


192    MALES  BEAR  THE  MARK  OF  MAHADEVA,  FEMALES  OF  UMA. 

risM-kanyahhir  rishi-patnibhir  eva  eha  |  urddha-leh  mahaiepho  nagno 
vikrita-hchanah  \  ).  He  is  one-faced,  two-faced,  three-faced,  many- 
faced. 

Such  is  the  deity,  of  whom,  after  hearing  this  description,  ITpamanyu 
becomes  a  constant  devotee,  and  whom  he  gratifies  by  long'  austerities, 
standing  for  a  thousand  years  on  the  tip  of  his  left  toe,  during  the  first 
hundred  years  of  which  period  he  lives  on  fruits,  the  second  hundred 
on  withered  leaves,  the  third  hundred  on  water,  and  the  remaining 
seven  hundred  on  air  (v.  758  &.).  Mahadeva  at  length  appears  to  him 
in  the  form  of  Indra,  and  offers  him  his  choice  of  a  boon.  TJpamanyu, 
V  j\y  however,  is  indifferent  about  Indra,  and  declares  that  he  cares  nothing 
V^  about  any  other  god  than  Mahadeva,  and  will  accept  no  boon,  however 
great,  at  the  hand  of  any  other,  adding  many  passionate  expressions  of 
devotion  to  this  deity.  And  a  further  occasion  being  offered  by  a  ques- 
tion of  Indra,  the  saint  again  proceeds  to  expatiate  in  a  passage  of 
some  length  on  the  attributes  of  his  favourite  god  (w.  784-829),  of 
which  I  shaU  only  quote  the  following  lines  (v.  822  ff.) : 

Setuhhir  vS,  Mm  anyais  tair  Bah  Mrana-karanam  \  na  iuiruma  yai 
anyasya  lingam  dbhyarckyate  suraih  \  hasyanyaaya  suraih  sarvair  lingam 
muktva  MaheSvaram  |  archyate  ' rcMta-punam  va  hruM  yady  asti  te 
irutih  I  yasya  Brahma  eha  Vishnui  eha  tvam  ehapi  saha  daivataih  \ 
a/reJtayethah  sadd  lingam  tasmaeh  chhreshthatamo  hi  sah  \  na  padm&nkah 
na  ehakrankah  na  vajrdnkah  yaiah  prajah  \  linganka  eha  hhagdnkd  eha 
tasmad  Mdheharl  prafd  \  Devydh  karana-rupa-hhdva-janitdh  sarvdh 
lihagdnkdh  striyo  lingendpi  Sarasya  sarva-purushdh  pratyaksha-ehih- 
nikritah  |  yo  'nyat  kdranam  iSvardf  pra/oadate  devyd  eha  yad  ndnkitam 
trailokye  saehardeha/re  sa  tu  pumdn  vdhyo  Ihaved  durmatih  \  pumlingam 
sarvam  I^anam  strl-lingam  viddhi  ehdpy  Umam  \  dvahhydm  tanubhydm 
vydptam  hi  charaeharam  idamjagat  |  "Is  Isa  (Mahadeva)  the  Cause  of 
^  causes  for  any  other  reasons  ?  We  have  not  heard  that  the  linga  (male 
'  .  organ)  of  any  other  person  is  worshipped  by  the  gods.  Declare,  if  thou 
hast  heard,  what  other  being's  linga  except  that  of  Mahesvara  is  now 
worshipped,  or  has  formerly  been  worshipped,  by  the  gods  ?  He  whose 
linga  Brahma  and  Vishnu,  and  thou  (Indra),  with  the  deities,  con- 
tinually worship,  is  therefore  the  most  eminent.  Since  children  bear 
neither  the  mark  of  the  lotus  (Brahma's),  nor  of  the  discus  (Vishnu's), 
nor  of  the  thunderbolt  (Indra' s),  but  are  marked  with  the  male  and  the 


BEAHMA  AND  VISHNTT  CELEBEATE  MAHADEVA'S  PEAISES.     193 

female  organs, Рђћ therefore  offspring  is  derived  from  Maheilvara.  All 
women  produced  from  the  nature  of  Devi  as  their  cause,  are  marked 
with  the  female  organ,  and  all  males  are  manifestly  marked  with  the 
linga  of  Hara.  He  who  asserts  any  other  cause  than  Isvara  (Maha- 
deva)  or  [aflrms]  that  there  is  any  [female]  not  marked  by  Devi  in 
the  three  worlds,  including  all  things  movable  or  immovable,  let  that 
fool  be  thrust  out.  Enow  everything  which  is  male  to  be  Isana,  and 
all  that  is  female  to  be  Uma ;  for  this  whole  world,  movable  and  im- 
movable, is  pervaded  by  [these]  two  bodies." 

The  saint  is  at  length  gratified  by  the  appearance  of  Mahadeva  him- 
self with  his  spouse  Parvati  (vv.  837-841  f.) ;  and  a  long  description  of 
the  vision  is  given.  Brahma  and  Vishnu  stand  on  Mahadeva's  right 
and  left,  and  celebrate  his  praises  (v.  869  f.)  : 

Savya-deh  tu  devasya  Brahma  lolca-pitdmahah  \  divyam  vimdnamddhaya 
Jiamsa-yuUam  manojavam  |  vama-parha-gatai  ehdpi  tathd  Ndrdyandh 

sthitah  I  Vainateyam,  samdruhya  sankha-ohalcra-gadd-dharah  \ 

875  f.  Astuvan  vividhaih  stotrair  Mahadevam  surds  tadd  \  Brahma 
Bhavam  tadd  ^stausMd  rathanta/ram  udirayan  |  jyeshtha-sdmnd  oha  deve- 
kam  jagav,  Ndrdyanas  tadd  |  grinan  Irahma  param  S'aTcrah  iatarudriyam 
uttamam  \  BraJimd  Ndrdyanai  chaiva  devardjakcha  KauUkah  \  asobhanta 
mahdtmdnas  trayas  trayali  ivdgnayah  \  869.  "  On  the  left  (right  ?)  of  the 
god  was  Brahma,  patriarch  of  the  world,  standing  oh  a  celestial  car, 
drawn  by  swans,  and  fleet  as  thought.     On  the  left  was  Narayana 

(Vishnu)  mounted  on  Garuda,  bearing  a  shell,  discus  and  club 

875.  The  gods  then  lauded  Mahadeva  with  various  hymns.  Brahma 
celebrated  him,  reciting  the  Eathantara,  while  Narayana  hymned  the 
god  of  gods  with  the  Jyeshtha  saman,  and  Indra,  uttering  that  most 
eminent  prayer,  the  excellent  S'atarudriya.  Brahma,  Narayana,  and 
the  king  of  the  gods  (Indra),  the  son  of  Kusika,"'  the  three  mighty 
deities,  shone  like  the  three  fires." 

TJpamanyu  himself  then  lauds  Mahadeva  (vv.  880-923).  At  the 
conclusion  of  his  hymn  a  shower  of  flowers  falls  from  the  sky  on  his 
head,  accompanied  by  celestial  odours,  and  music  (v.  925  f.),  and  Maha- 
deva addresses  him,  offering  to  bestow  everything  he  wishes.  TJpamanyu 

''*  The  epithet  of  Kaus'ika  is  given  to  Indra  in  E.  V.  i.  10,  11.  See  the  first  vol. 
of  this  work,  pp.  347  f. 

VOL.  IV.  13 


.,>.'Рќа' 


194        KRISHNA  PRACTISES  AUSTERITIES,  HAS  A  VISION 

sheds  tears  of  joy,  falls  on  his  knees,  makes  repeated  prostrations,  and 
after  acknowledging  with  gratitude  the  god's  condescension  in  granting 
him  this  vision,  proceeds  to  say  (vv.  839  ff.) : 

fSa  esha  Ihagmidn  devah  sm-va-sattvddir  avyayah  \  sarva-tattva-vidhana- 
j'nah  pradhana-pwrushah  parah  \  yo  'srijad  dahhindd  angdd  Brahmdnafh 
hka-samlhavam  \  vamor-pdrhat  tathd  Vishnum  loha^rakshdrtham  Isvarah  \ 
yugdnte  ehaiva  samprdpte  Sudram  I^o  'srijat  prdbhwr  ity  ddi  |  "This 
is  the  glorious  god,  the  heginning  of  all  existences,  undecaying,  who 
knows  the  formation  of  all  principles,  who  is  Pradhana  and  Purusha 
(or  the  principal  Purusha),  the  supreme ;  who,  the  lord,  created  from 
his  right  side  Brahma,  the  originator  of  the  worlds,  and  from  his  left 
v'  side  Vishnu,  for  the  preservation  of  the  universe ;  and  when  the  end 
^'       of  the  age  {yugd)  had  arrived,  the  mighty  lord  created  Eudra,"  etc. 

IJpamanyu  concludes  hy  asking  these  boons,  viz.  that  his  devotion  to 
the  god  may  be  perpetual,  that  he  may  know  the  past,  the  present,  and 
the  future,  that  he  may  always  eat  food  cooked  with  nulk  {hhircmdana) 
with  his  relations,  and  that  they  may  ever  enjoy  the  near  presence 
{sdnnidhya)  of  Mahadeva  in  their  hermitage  (vv.  945  ff.).  The  god 
bestows  all  these  and  many  other  blessings,  and  disappears  (vv.  949  ff.). 

Having  heard  all  this  account  from  IJpamanyu,  Krishna  expresses  a 
desire  that  the  god  may  vouchsafe  to  him  a  similar  vision  and  the  like 
favour.  ITpamanyu  promises  that  Mahadeva  shall  appear  to  Krishna 
in  six  months,  and  bestow  on  him  twenty-four  boons,  and  pays  him 
the  compliment  of  saying  that  any  of  the  gods  would  consider  it  as  a 
highly  laudable  act  to  have  an  interview  with  such  a  pious,  innocent, 
and  devout  person  as  he  (Krishna)  is  (vv.  964  ff.).  Krishna  is  then 
consecrated  by  the  Brahman  (973  ff.).  Equipped  with  a  staff,  shaved, 
clothed  with  rags,  anointed  with  ghee,  and  provided  with  a  girdle,  living 
for  one  month  on  fruits,  for  four  more  on  water,  standing  on  one  foot, 
with  his  arms  aloft,  he  at  length  obtained  a  glorious  vision  of  Mahadeva 
and  his  wife  (v.  978),  whom  all  the  gods  were  worshipping,  and 
among  them  Indra,  Vishnu  (the  delight  of  his  mother  Aditi),  and 
Brahma,  all  uttering  the  rathantara  sama  {S'atakratui  cha  Ihagamn 
Vishmi  chdditi-nandanah  |  Brahma  rathantaram  sama  irayanti  Bha- 
vantike).  Krishna  then  describes  the  effect  of  this  vision  on  himself 
^vv.  997  ff.) : 

Pwastdd  dhiahthitah  S'arvo  mamdslt  iridaieivarah  \  pwastdd  dhishthi- 


or  MAHADEVA,  AND  OBTAINS  BOONS  FEOM  HIM.  195 

tarn  drishlvd  mameiananeha  BMrata  |  aa-Prajapati-S'akrantam  jagad 
mam  ahhywdaikshata  \  tkshitum  cha  Mahadevam  na  me  Saktir  abhut  tada  \ 
tato  mam  airavtd  devah  " paiya  Krishna  vadasva  cha  \  taya  [tvaya  ?] 
hy  aradhitas  ohahwfft  Sataso  'tha  sahaara^ah  \  tvat-samo  nasti  me  haschit 
trishu  lokeshu  vaipriyah"  \  iirasa  vcmdite  deve  deviprlta  hy  Uma  'hhmat  \ 
tato  'ham  ahruvam  Sthanum  stutam  Brahmadibhih  suraih  \  "  Before  me 
stood  S'arva,  the  lord  of  the  gods.  Beholding  Kana  standing  before  me, 
the  world  from  Prajapati  to  S'akra  (Indra)  gazed  upon  me.  I  had  no 
power  to  look  on  Mahadeva.  The  god  then  said  to  me,  'Behold, 
Krishna,  and  speak.  I  have  been  adored  by  thee  hundreds  and 
thousands  of  times.  There  is  no  one  in  the  three  worlds  so  dear  to  me 
as  thou.'  The  god  having  been  reverenced  by  obeisance,  the  goddess 
Uma  was  gratified.  I  then  said  to  Sthanu  (Mahadeva),  who  had  been 
praised  by  Brahma  and  the  rest  of  the  gods,"  etc. 

Krishna  proceeds  to  laud  Mahadeva  (vv.  1002-1018)  as  the  supreme 
Deity.  Mahadeva  then  says  (v.  1023):  Vidmah  Krishna param  hhaktim 
asmdsu  tava  iatruhan  \  vriyatdm  atmanah  ireyah  pritir  hi  tvayi  me  pmrd  \ 
vrinishiashtaw  varan  Krishna  ddtdsmi  tma  sattama  \  bruhi  Yddava- 
idrdula  yan  ichhasi  sudurlahhdn  \  "  We  know,  Krishna,  slayer  of  foes, 
thy  eminent  devotion  to  us.  Choose  what  is  most  advantageous  to  thee, 
for  my  love  for  thee  is  extreme.  Choose  eight  boons ;  I  wiU  give  them 
to  thee,  moat  excellent  being.  Specify,  chief  of  the  Tadus,  those  boons 
which  are  most  difficult  to  obtain  which  thou  desirest."  Krishna 
then  asks  these  eight  boons:  (1)  steadfastness  in  righteousness,  (2) 
the  destruction  of  his  foes  in  battle,  (3)  eminent  renown,  (4)  the 
greatest  strength,  (5)  abstraction  (yoga),  (6)  amiability  {priyatvam), 
(7)  close  proximity  to  Mahadeva,  and  (┬╗)  a  hundred  hundreds  of  sons, Рђћ 
aU  of  which  were  accordingly  granted  by  Mahadeva.  Fma  next  offers 
him  his  choice  of  eight  more  boons,  and  he  selects  (1)  the  goodwill  of 
the  Brahmans,  (2)  the  favour  of  his  father,  (3)  a  hundred  sons,  (4) 
eminent  enjoyment,  (5)  the  affection  of  his  tribe,  (6)  the  favour  of  his 
mother,  (7)  tranquillity  of  mind,  and  (8)  ability.  These  boons  are 
granted  by  the  goddess^  who  superadds  sixteen  thousand  wives  whose 
affection  he  should  retain,  and  several  other  blessings.  Mahadeva  and 
his  spouse  then  disappear,  aliid  Krishna  relates  to  TJpamanyu  all  that 
has  happened  (v.  1034).  That  sage  then  goes  on  to  tell  him  a  story 
about  a  rishi  called  Tandi,  who  had  formerly  worshipped  Mahadeva 


> 


196  KRISHNA  SUBMITS  TO  THE  CAPRICES  OF 

in  the  Krita  age,  and  praised  him  in  a  long  hymn  (which  is  given  w; ' 
1049-1103)  as  the  supreme  Deity  whom  even  Brahma,  Indra,  and 
Vishnu  did  not  perfectly  know,  w.  1052  {Brahma,  S'atakratwr  Vishnwr 
visvedevah  maharshayah  \  na  vidus  tvaHi  tu  tattvena  hvio  veisyamahe 
vayam).  These  words  appear  to  have  been  especially  gratifying  to  the 
god  (vv.  1105  ff.).  Tandi  had  then  come  to  Upamanyu's  hermitage, 
and  recited  to  him  the  eleven  thousand  mystical  names  of  Mahadeva, 
which  TJpamanyu  repeated  to  Krishna  (vv.  1144  flf.).  This  hymn, 
existing  in  the  heart  of  Brahma,  was,  we  are  told  (w.  1287  ff.), 
declared  by  that  deity  to  Indra,  by  him  to  Mrityu  (Death),  by  him  to 
the  Eudras,  and  from  them  it  came  to  Tandi,  etc. 

A  little  further  on  (vv.  1358  ff.)  we  are  told  that  TJpamanyu  ex- 
pressed himself  thus  to  Erishna  : 

Asulhaih  papakarma.no  ye  narah  Icalushikritdh  |  liarMfk  na  prapad- 
yante  tamo-rdjasa-vrittayah  \  Isvaram  samprapadyante  dvijah  hhdvita-hhd- 
vanah  \  sa/rvafhd  vartamdno  ^pi  yo  hhaktah  parameha/re  \  sadriio  'ranya- 
vdsdndm  munmdm  hhdvitatmandm  \  Brahmatvaih  Keiavatvam  oka  S'akra- 
tvam  vd  suraih  saJia  |  trailokyasyddhipatyam  vd  tushto  Ruirah  pro- 
yachhati  ityadi  \  "  Those  sinful  men  who  are  soiled  by  unhallowed 
(deeds)  do  not  seek  Isana,  living  under  the  dark  and  passionate  qualities. 
Brahmans  who  have  meditated  on  the  cause  [of  all  things]  seek  Isvara. 
The  man  who  is  devoted  to  Mahesvara Рђћ ^whatever  mode  of  life  he  fol- 
lows^is  equal  to  those  contemplative  munis  who  dwell  in  the  forests. 
Eudra,  when  he  is  gratified,  bestows  the  rank  of  Brahma,  or  of  Hesava 
(Kesava  is  a  name  of  Krishna),  or  of  Indra,  or  the  supreme  lordship 
of  the  three  worlds,  including  the  deities." 

In  a  later  part  of  the  Anusasana-parvan,  7402  ff.,  Krishna  relates 
to  Yudhishthira  the  benefits  which  had  resulted  to  himself  from  his 
patient  submission  to  the  caprices  and  freaks  of  the  irritable  Brahman 
Durvasas  (an  incarnation  of  S'iva,  as  it  is  stated  below ;  see  page  204), 
who,  among  other  tricks,  had  yoked  Krishna's  wife  Eukmini  to  his 
car,  and  had  wounded  her  with  a  goad,  while  drawing  him  on  the 
road,  and  as  a  reward  of  Krishna's  patient  endurance  of  all  this  annoy- 
ance, had  offered  him  his  choice  of  boons,  and  had  promised  to  Eukmini 
that  she  should  be  eminently  renowned  in  the  world,  and  the  most 
distinguished  of  the  sixteen  thousand  wives  of  Krishna,  whom  she 
should  worship.     The  Brahman  then  disappeared,  and  Krishna  per- 


DTTEVASAS,  AND  OBTAIKS  BOONS  FEOM  HIM.  197 

formed-  an  Upan^u  rite,  i.e.  muttered  prayers,  with  his  wife.  Then 
entering  his  honse  he  found  that  all  the  articles  which  Durvasas  had 
broken  or  burned,  were  replaced. 

Tudhishthira  then  says  to  Krishna  (w.  7458  ff.):  Burvasaaah prasddat 
te  yat  tada  Madhusudana  |  avaptam  iha  mjnanam  tan  me  vyalchyatum 
arhasi  \  mahahhasgycmcha  yat  iasya  namani  cha  mahdtmanah  |  tattvato 
jn&tum  ichhdmi  sarvam  mafimatdm  vara  \  Vdsudevah  wvacha  |  Mania  te 
Mrtayuhydmi  namashritya  Kapa/rdine  \  yad  avaptam  mayd  rdja/n  ireyo 
yach  chdrjitam  yaiah  \  prayatah  prdta/r  utthaya  yad  adhiye  vUdmpate  \ 
prdnjalih  iatwrud/nyam  tan  me  nigadatah  irinu  \  Prajapatis  tat  sasrije 
tapaso  ^nte  mahdtapdh  \  S'anTcaras  tv  asrijat  tdta  prafdh  sthdvara-j'an- 
gamdh  \  ndsti  kinohit  param  hhutam  Mahddevdd  vUdmpate  |  iha  trishv 
api  loheska  lihutdnaih  pra/oa/ro  hi  sah,  \  na  chaiootsahate  sthdtuM  Mnchid 
agre  mahatmanah  |  na  hi  hhutam  samara  tena  trishu  lolceshu  vidyaie  | 
gandhendpi  hi  sangrdme  tasya  hruddhasya  iatravah  \  visanj'ndk  hata-hha- 
yishthdh  vepanfe  cha  patanti  cha  \  ghoranoha  ninadam  tasya  Parjanya- 
ninadopamam  \  srutvd  viilryed  hridayam  demndm  api  samyuge  \  ydmicha 
ghorena  rupena  paiyet  Tcruddhah,  pindka-dhrilc  \  na  surdh  ndsurdh  lake  na 
gandha/rvah  na pamnagdh  \  kttpite  sukham edhanteiasminn  api guhdgatdh  \ 
Prajdpates  tu  Bakshasya  yoy'ato  vitate  kratau  |  vhiyddha  kupito  yajnam 
nirhhayas  tv  ahhavat  tadd  \  dhanushdvdnamutsrijya  saghoshaM  vinandda 
cha  I  tena  iwrma  kutah  sdntim  vishddam  lehhire  surdh  \  viddhe  cha  sahasd 
yajne  kvpite  cha  Mahesvwre  \  tena  jyd-tala-ghoshena  sarve  lokdh  samdkuidh  \ 
halhvtvwr  a/oaidh  PdrtJia  vishedui  cha  swrdswrdh  \  dpai  ohvkshubhire  chaiva 
chakampe  cha  vasundhard  \  vyadravan  giriryai  chdpi  dyauh  paphdla  cha 
sa/rvaiah  \  andhena  tamasd  lokdh  prdvritdh  na  chakdSire  |  pranashtd  j'yo- 
fishdm  hhds  eha  saha  suryena  Bhdrata  \  hhriiam,  Ihit&s  tatah  kdnti'fft 
chakruh  svasfyayandni  cha  |  rishayah  sarva-bhutdndm  dtmanai  cha 
hitaishinah  \  tatah  so  'hhyadravad  devdn  Budro  raudra-parakramah  \ 
Bhagasya  nayane  hevdihah  prahdrena  vydidtayat  \  Pusham0i  chdbhi- 
dudrdva  pddena  cha  rwshdnvitah  |  pwoddsam  hhakshayato  daiandmi  cha 
vyakdtayat  \  tatah  pranemur  devdi  te  vepamdnds  tu  S'ankaram  \  punaS 
eha  sandadhe  Rud/ro  diptwm  suniiitam  sa/ram  \  Rudrasya  vikramam 
drishtvd  Ihltdh  devah  saharshibhih  \  tatah  prasadaydmasuh  sarve  te 
vihudhottamdh  \jepuS  eha  satarudriyaM  devdh  kritvd  'ry'alim  tadd  I 
samsiuyamdnas  tridaiaih  prasasdda  MaheSvarah  \  Rudrasya  hhdgaih  yajne 
cha  miishtam  te  tv  akalpayan  \  Ihayena  tridaidh  rajan  iwranalh  chp  pra- 


I 


^ 


198  KRISHNA  CELEBRATES  THE 

pedire  \  tena  ehaka  hi  dushfena  {tushfena  ?)  sa  ym'no  sandhito  'hhavat  |  t/ad 
yaeh  chapahritafh  tatra  tat  tathaiva  sajivayatJ^Asterdndm  purany  asama 
trim  mrymatdm  dwi  |  dyasaih,  rajatam  ehaiva  sauvarmm  api  chdparam  | 
nasakat  taniMagJiema  Ihettum  sarv&yitdhair  api  |  atha  earve  Mahdrudraih 
jagmuh  iaranam  arditdh  |  tatah  uohur  mahdtmdno  devdh  sarve  santdgatah  \ 

^  Rudra  ravdrdh  hhavishyanti  paitwah  sarva-karmasu  \jahi  daity&n  saha 
pitrair  lohdms  trdyasva  mdnada  \  sa  tathohtas  tathety  uktva  kritvd  Vish- 
num  iwottamam  \  ialyam  Agniih,  tathd  kritvd  punkham  Vaivasvata& 
Tamam  \  veddn  kritvd  dhanuA  sarvdnjydmchasdvitrltmtttamdm  \  Brah- 
mdnam  sdratMm  kritvd  viniyuj'ya  cha  sarvasah  |  triparvand  trihlyena 

>  kale tdni hibheda  sah  \  iarendditya-varnenakdidgni-sama-tejasd  |  te'surdh 
sa-purds  tatra  dagdhdh  Rud/rma  Bhdrata  \  tarn  ehaivdnka-gdtam  drishpa, 
Idlam panehaiikham  punah  \  Umd  jijndsamdna  vai  "ko  'yam"  ity  alravit 
tadd  I  asuyatai  cha  S'akrasya  vaj'rma  praharishyatah  \  sa  vajram  stamhha- 
ydmdsa  tarn  bdhum  parighopamam  \  na  samhuhudhire  ehaiva  devds  tarn 
hhmaneharam,  \  sa-prajdpataya'h  sarve  tasmin  sumahattsvare  |  tato  dhyd- 
tvd  tu  bhagamn  Brahma  tarn  amitaijymam  \  ayafh  ^reshthah  itijndtvd 
vavande  tam  Umd-patim  \  tatak  prasddaydmdsur  TTmdm  Budram  cha  te 
svrah  I  babhuva  sa  tadd  bdhv/r  balahantwr  yathd  pwrd  \  sa  ehdpi  hrdh- 
mano  bhutvd  Bwvdsdh  ndma  viryavdn  \  Dvdravatydm  mamapwe  ekiram 
kdlam  updvasaf  \  viprakdran  prayimkte  sma  subahun  mama  vesmani  | 
tan  uddrafayd  chdham  chakshame  ehdti-duhsahdn  \  sa  vai  Mudrah  sa  eha 
S'ivah  so  'gnih  S'arvah  sa  sarva-jit  I  sa  vai  chendrai  elia  Vdyus  cha  so 
'ivinau  sa  eha  Vidyutah  \  sa  ehandramdh  sa  eheidnah  sa  Sa/ryo  Varunas 
eha  sah  \  sa  kdlah  so  'ntako  mrityuh  sa  tamo  rdtry  ahdni  cha  \  mdsdr- 
dha-mdsdh  ritavah  sandhye  saihvatsara^  eha  sah  \  sa  dhata  sa  vidhdtd 
cha  vzSvakarmd  sa  sarva-vit  \  nakshatrdni  grahds  ehaiva  diso  'tha  vidiiaS 
tathd  I  viiva-murtir  ameydtmd  bhagavdn  amara-dyutih  \  ekadhd  cha 
'  dvidhd  ehaiva  bahudhd  eha  sa  eva  hi  \  tathd  sahasradhd  thaiva  tathd 
┬Дata-sahasraiah  \  tdrisah  sa  Mahddevo  bhiimah "'  sa  bhagavdn  ajah  \  na 
hi  iakydh  gundh  vaktum  api  varsha-satair  api  \  Yudhishthira  mahdbdho 
mahdbhdgyam  mahdtmana^  \  Rudrdya  (?)  bahurupdya  bahu-ndmm 
nibodha  me  \  Vadanty  Agnim  Mahddevam  tathd  Sthdnum  Maheivaram  \ 
ekdksham  iryambakaM  ehaiva  viiva-rupam  S'ivam  tathd  \  dve  tanu  tasya 

^''^  See  BbMingk  and  Eoth,  s,  v.  Ihuman,  vol.  v.,  p.  1660,  wliere  several  passages 
of  the  Bhagavata  Pnrana  are  referred  to  in  which  a  kindred  word,  bhunwn,  is  applied 
as  an  e^thet  to  Epshna.    See  also  page  317  of  the  same  Tol. 


GLOET  OP  MAHADEVA.  199 

devasya  Irahmanah  vedajna^  viduh  \  ghoram  anyatii  ii/oafh,  anyam  te 
tanu  hahudha  punah  \  ugrd  ghord  tanur  yd  sd  so  'gnir  vidyut  m  hhd- 
skarah  I  iwa  saumyd  eha  yd  tv  asya  dharmas  tv  dpo  'tha  ehandramah  \ 
atmano  ^rdham  tu  tasydgni^  soma  'rdham  punar  uohyate  \  Iralma- 
charywfn  cha/raty  ehd  iivd  yd  'sya  ianm  tatha  \  yd  'sya  ghoratamd 
murtir  jagat  samha/rate  tada  "^*  |  livaratvad  mahatvach  cha  Maheiva/rah 
iti  smritah  |  yad  nirdahati  y^t  tlhhno  yad  ugro  yat  pratapavan  \ 
mdmsaionita-majjddo  yat  tato  Ruikah  uohyate  \  devdndm  sumahan  yaeh 
cha  yach  ehdsya  vishayo  mahdn  |  yach  cha  viSvam  mahat  pdti  Mahddevas 
tatah  smritah,  |  dhumra-rupam  cha  yat  tasya  dhurjatity  ata  uohyate  | 
samedhayaU  yad  nityam  sarvdn  vai  sarva-karmalhih  |  manushydn  iivam 
anviehhams  tasmdd  eva  S'ivah  smritah  \  ityddi 

Anu^aeana-parvam,  v.  7458  ff. Рђћ ^Tudhishthira  says  to  Krishna:  "  Thou 
oughtest,  Madhusudana,  to  expound  to  me  that  knowledge  which  thou 
then  obtainedst  by  the  favour  of  Durvasas.  I  wish,  most  eminent  of 
the  wise,  to  know  exactly  ail  the  grandeur  of  that  great  Being,  and  his 
names.  Vasudeva  replies :  Tes,  I  shall  declare  to  thee,  after  bowing 
down  before  the  god  with  the  spirally-braided  hair  (Mahadeva),  the 
happiness  which  was  obtained  by  me,  and  the  glory  which  was  acquired. 
Hear  from  me,  0  king,  the  S'atarudrlya,  which,  when  risen  in  the-mom- 
ing,  I  intently  repeat  with  joined  hands.  The  great  devotee,  Prajapati, 
created  that  [prayer"']  at  the  end  of  his  austerity.  S'ankara  has 
created  [aU]  beings,  stationary  and  moving.  There  is  nothing,  0  king, 
which  exists  superior  to  Mahadeva;  for  he  is  the  most  excellent  of 
beings  in  aU  these  three  worlds.  And  nothing  can  stand  before  this 
great  deity :  for  there  is  no  being  like  him  in  the  three  worlds.  In 
battle,  when  he  is  even  in  the  slightest  degree  {lit.  'even  by  a  scent') 
incensed,  his  enemies  tremble  and  fall  senseless,  and  mostly  slain. 
And  the  heart  even  of  the  gods  would  be  withered  in  battle,  on  hearing 
his  dreadful  voice,  resembling  the  sound  of  Parjanya  {i.e.  of  the 
thunder  clouds).  And  neither  gods,  nor  Asuras,  nor  Gandharvas,  nor 
Fannagas,  nor  any  one  whom  the  Holder  of  the  bow  (Mahadeva),  in- 
censed, looks  upon  with  his  direful  aspect,  can  enjoy  tranquillity  when 

i92>  РќаWith  this  and  the  preceding  lines  compare  Dronap.,  9632  ff. 

"'  It  is  part  of  the  "White  Yajur  Veda  (Vajasaneyi  Sanhita).  See  further  on, 
chapter  iii.,  section  second.  It  is  not  reproduced  in  the  passage  before  ns.  Compare 
vol.  iii.  of  this  work,  on  the  mode  in  which  the  Veda  is  conceived  to  have  been 
produced. 


200      MAHADEVA  DISTURBS  DAKSHA'S  SACRIFICE,  KNOCKS 

he  is  angry,  even  though  they  hide  themselves.  "When  the  Prajapati 
Daksha  was  sacrificing,  and  his  ceremonial  was  arranged,  Mahadeva  in 
his  wrath  pierced  the  sacrifice,  and  was  then  devoid  of  fear,  and  dis- 
charging an  arrow  with  his  bow,  he  uttered  a  loud  shout.  The  gods 
received  from  this  no  pleasure  or  tranquillity,  but  rather  dejection. 
And  forthwith,  the  sacrifice  being  pierced,  and  Mahe^vara  being  in- 
censed, aU  the  worlds  were  disturbed  at  the  sound  of  his  bowstring ; 
both  gods  and  Asuras  became  helpless  and  cast  down ;  the  waters  were 
troubled,  and  the  earth  shook;  the  mountains  were  dissolved;  the 
sky  was  rent  in  all  directions ;  enveloped  in  thick  darkness,  the  worlds 
did  not  shine,  and  the  light  of  the  luminaries  and  of  the  sun  was 
quenched.  Being  greatly  alarmed,  the  rishis  then  sought  to  appease 
Mahadeva,  and  recited  texts  to  avert  his  anger,  seeking  their  own 
welfare,  and  that  of  all  creatures.  Eudra  of  dreadful  power  then 
ran  up  to  the  gods,  and,  in  his  rage,  knocked  out  the  eyes  of  Bhaga 
with  a  blow,  and,  incensed,  assaulted  Pushan  with  his  foot,  and  knocked 
out  his  teeth,  as  he  was  eating  the  purodasa  offering."*    The  gods 

''*  For  the  older  story  about  Bhaga  and  Pushan,  see  Indische  Studien,  ii.  306  f. ; 
and  Taittiriya  Sanhita,  ii.  6, 8,  3  f.,  partially  quoted  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  -work,  p. 
476,  note  on  p.  178,  line  6.  The  entire  passage  is  as  follows :  Devah  vai  yajmd 
Hudram  antar  ayan  \  sa  yajnam  avidhyat  |  tarn  devah  aihisamagachhanta  "  halpatam 
nah  idam"  iti  \  te  'bruvan  "  smshtam  vai  nah  idam  bhavishyati  yad  imam  radhayish- 
yamah"  iti  |  tat  svishtahritah  svisMakrittvam  \  tasya  aviddham  nirakrintan  (4) 
yavena  sammitam  |  tasmnd  yava^matram  avadyet  |  yaj  jyayo  *vadyed  ropayet  tad 
yajnasya  \  yad  vpa  oha  striniyad  abhi  cha  gharayed  ubhayatah  samsvayi  kwyat  | 
avaddya  abhigliarayati  \  dvih  sampadyate  |  dvipad  yajamanah  \  pratishthityai  |  yat 
tirasohJnam  atihared  anabhividdham  yajnasya  abhividhyet  \  agrma pa/riharaiit'trthena 
eva  pariharati  \  tat  Pushne  paryaharan  tat  (5)  Pusha  pradya  data  'runat  \  tasmat 
Fusha  prapishta-bhagah  \  adantako  hi  \  tarn  devah  abnivan  " ┬╗┬Ф  aai  ayam  ardhi  | 
aprasitriyo  vai  ayam  abhud"  iti  |  tad  Brihaspataye  paryaharan  \  so  'bibhed  Brihas- 
patir  "ittham  vava  sya  artim  arishyati"  iti\sa  etam  mantram  apasyat  \  "The 
gods  excluded  Rudra"  [in  the  form  of  Svishtakrit  Agni,  Comm.]  "from  the  sacrifice. 
He  pierced  the  sacrifice  [with  an  arrow].  The  gods  came  together  to  him,  [and  said,] 
'  Let  this  [rite]  of  ours  be  [again]  rectified.'  They  [i.e.  certain  wise  gods,  according 
to  the  Commentator]  said,  '  If  we  propitiate  him,  this  [rite]  of  ours  will  be  well 
sacrificed  {svishta).'  It  is  from  this  that  the  Syishtakfit  insures  the  due  performance 
of  the  rite."  [According  to  Professor  "Weber,  Ind.  Stud.,  ii.  217,  the  svishtakrit  is 
the  portion  of  the  sacrifice  destined  for  Agni  Svishtakrit.]  "  They  cut  off  the  part 
which  had  been  pierced  to  the  extent  of  a  barleycorn.  4.  "Wherefore  let  the  adhvaryu 
priest  cut  off  [the  pra^itra  portion]  only  to  the  extent  of  a  barleycorn.  If  he  cut  off 
more  than  this,  he  will  break  that  off  from  the  sacrifice.  If  he  should  both  spread 
[ghee]  underneath  and  sprinkle  [ghee]  above,  he  would  cause  the  oblation  to  become 
swollen  on  both  sides.    He  is  therefore,  after  cutting  off  [the  pras'itra],  only  to 


OUT  BHAGA'S  EYES  AND  PtTSHAN'S  TEETH,  ETC.  201 

trembling&en  made  obeisance  to  S'ankara,  and  he  again  fitted  on  the 
string  the  glittering,  well-whetted  arrow.  Beholding  the  prowess 
of  Eudra,  the  gods,  with  the  rishis,  terrified,  propitiated  him,  and  with 

sprinkle  [ghee]  above  it.  To  do  this  twice  is  proper  [for  the  sacriflcer  has  two  feet], 
in  order  that  it  may  succeed.  If  he  hands  [the  brahman's  share]  to  him  across  [the 
altar],  he  will  pierce  that  part  of  the  sacrifice  which  is  uninjured;  whereas  if  he 
reaches  it  to  him  in  front,  he  does  so  in  the  proper  direction.  They  handed  that 
[portion]  to  Pushan.  Eating  it,  he  broke  his  teeth.  "Wherefore  Pushan  has  a  portion 
of  groundmeal  offered  to  him ;  for  he  is  toothless.  The  gods  said  of  him,  'he  has 
come  to  grief;  he  has  become  unfit  for  the  pras'itra.'  They  handed  it  to  Brihaspati. 
He  was  afraid,  saying, '  In  this  way  shall  one  incur  misfortune.'   He  saw  this  text,"  etc. 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Weber  for  a  German  translation  of  this  passage,  which 
has  enabled  me  to  correct  and  improve  my  own.  He  remarks  that  the  reason  why 
the  pras'itra  broke  Pushan's  teeth  was,  that  it  was  '  Eudriya'  (see  the  passage  from 
the  S'atap.  Br.,  J.  7,  4,  15  f.,  adduced  at  the  end  of  a  following  quotation),  i.e.  tbe 
portion  of  the  oblation  struck  by  Eudra's  shot.  This  effect  of  it  must  be  obviated  by 
the  use  of  a  text.  Professor  Weber  thinks  that  arumt  (followed  by  taamat),  in  the 
above  passage,  must  stand  for  arunah  (though  the  root  ruj  is  nowhere  else  conjugated 
in  the  seventh  conjugation),  and  compares  Taitt.  S.,  vii.  4,  9,  1,  asrid  dvabhyam 
for  asrig  (see  Ind,  Stud.,  viii.  54,  note) ;  Kau^.  39,  nyat  for  nyak;  scmmad-anna  for 
samyag-ajna,  Dhammap.  verse  57;  samsridbhik  from  samsrip,  Taitt.  Br.,  i.  8,  1,  1; 
nadbhyah  from  nap,  R.  V.,  x.  60,  6  ;  adbhih,  adbhyah  from  ap;  samyat  te,  Taitt.  S., 
i.  2,  7,  1  (compare  Weber's  Indische  Streifen,  i.  127,  note  5). 

The  S'atap.  Br.  i.  7,  4,  5,  refers  to  the  same  story  in  the  sequel  of  a  passage  which 
has  already  been  given  above,  p.  45.  The  continuation  is  as  follows :  5  \  Te  ha 
uchv/r  "  vpajanjta  yatha  idem  na  amtiya  asat  hanlyo  ha  ahuter  yatha  idem  syad" 
Hi  \  6  \  te  ha  uchur  "  Bhagaya  mad  dalcshinatah  asirmya  pariharata  \  tad  Hhagah 
praiishyati  tad  yatha  aJiuiameva  bhavishyati"  iti\  tcid  Shagaya  dakshinatah  asJnaya 
paryajahruh  |  tad  Bliago  'vekshanehakre  |  tasya  akshini  nirdadaha  \  tat  ha  in  nunam 
tad  aaa  \  tasmad  ahw  "andho  Bhagah"  iti  \T  \teha  uchur  "no  m>  atra  aiamat  | 
Fushne  enat  pa/riharata"  iti  |  tat  Pmhne  pa/ryajahruh  \  tat  FiisKa  prala  \  tasya  data 
nirfaghdna  |  tatha  in  nunem  tad  asa  \  tasmad  dhur  "adantakah  Fushd*'  iti  [  tasmad 
yam  Fushne  oharA  ktirvamti  prapishtanam  eva  kurvanti  yatha  adantakdya  evam  \  5 
"  They  said,  '  Take  care  that  this  may  not  be  lost ;  but  that  it  may  be  less  than  the 
oblation.'  6.  They  said, '  Present  it  to  Bhaga,  sitting  on  the  right  side ;  he  wiU  eat  it ; 
that  shall  be  as  if  it  were  offered.'  They  presented  it  to  Bhaga  sitting  on  the  right 
side ;  he  looked  at  it ;  it  burned  his  eyes.  That  truly  happened  so.  'Therefore  they 
say,  '  Bhaga  is  blind.'  7.  They  said,  '  Let  it  not  be  so  tranquilized.  Present  it  to 
Pushan.'  Pushan  ate  it;  it  knocked  out  his  teeth.  That  verily  so  happened. 
Wherefore  they  say,  '  Pushan  is  toothless.'  Hence  the  cooked  oblation  they  present 
to  Pushan  is  of  ground  materials." 

-  In  the  sequel  of  this  passage  it  is  said,  i.  7,  4,  9 :  8a  yat  prdsitram  avadyati  yad 
iva  atra  aviddham  yajnasya  yad  Sudriyam  tad  eva  etad  nirmimtte  [bahih  karoti  nish- 
karshati,  Comm.)  |  "  The  pras'itra  which  he  cuts  off,  the  part  of  the  sacrifice  which 
was  pierced,  which  is  connected  with  Eudra, Рђћ that  he  separates."  And  further  on,  i. 
7,  4,  15 ;  Sat prdsndti  |  "  Agnes  tvd  dsyena prds'ndmi"  iti  |  na  vai  Agnim  Mnohana 
pinasti  |  tathd  u  ha  enam  etad  na  hinasti  \  16  |  tad  na  dadbhih  khadet  \  "  na  id  me 
idem  Mudriyam  data  hinasad"  iti  \  tasmad  na  dadbhih  khadet  \  15,  "  He  eats  tha^ 


202  MAHADEVA  IS  APPEASED  BY  HAVING 

joined  hands,  muttered  the  S'atarudriya.    Being  thus  lauded  by  thei 

gods,  Mahe^vara  Ijecame  pleased ;  and  they  apportioned  to  him  a  dis- 

^aaA    tinguished  share  in  the  sacrifice,  and,  throuj;h  fear,  resorted  to  him  as 

[saying],  '  I  eat  thee  with  Agni's  mouth.'  Nothing  destroys  Agni.  So  this  does  not 
destroy  him.  16.  Let  no  one  eat  it  with  his  teeth,  [thinking],  '  Lest  this,  which  i┬Бf 
connected  with  Eudra,  destroy  my  teeth.'    Wherefore  let  no  one  eat  it  with  his  teeth." 

The  following  is  a  passage  from  the  preceding  section  of  the  same  Brahmana: 
K  7,  3,  1 :  Tajnma  vai  devah  divam  upoda&ramem  \  atha  yo  'yam  devah  paaSnam 
lahte  sa  iha  ahlyata  \  tamriad  vastm)yah  ity  ahuh  |  vastau  hi  tad  ahlyata  2  |  sa 
yena  eva  devah  divam  vpodakramains  tena  u  eva  archantah  iramyantas  cheruh  \ 
atha  yo  'yam  dmah  pasHnam  Tshte  yah  iha  ahlyata  (3)  sa  aikshata  " aha  asya 
ha  amtaryanty  u  ma  yajnSd  "  Hi  \  so  '  nuehehakrama  \  sa  ayataya  uttaratah  ┬Фpotpede\ 
sa  esha  svishtakriiah  kalah  \  i  \  te  devah  airiaian  "ma  visra&shir"  iti  |  "fe  vai 
md  yaJnSd  ma  'ntargata  ahutim  me  Tcalpayata"  Hi  \  "tathii"  iti  \  sa  samahrihat 
sa  na  asyat  sa  na  hanchana  ahinat  \5\te  devah  airtman  "ymanti  no  hammshi 
ffrihilany  abhuvan  sarvesham  tesham  hutam  iipajanita  yatha  'smai  ahutim  JcalpO' 
yama"  iti  \  6  \  te  'dhvaryum  abrwvan  " yathapiervam  hammshy  abhigharaya  |  elcaa- 
mai  avadanaya  ptmar  apyajya/ya  \  ayatayamani  kuru  tatah  ekaikam  anadanam 
madya"  iti  |  7  I  so' dhoarywr  yathapunam hammshy ahhyaghara/yad ehasmai  a/oadJa- 
naya  ptmar  apyayayad  a/yatayamany  alcarot  tatali  ekaikam  avaddnam  avadyat  \ 
1.  "By  sacrifice  the  gods  ascended  to  the  sky.  Now  the  god  who  rules  over  cattle  was 
excluded  here.  Hence  men  call  him  Vastavya  ;  for  he  was  excluded  [by  remaining] 
on  the  sacrificial  ground  {vdstu).  2.  The  gods  went  on  worshipping  and  toiling  with 
that  whereby  they  had  ascended  to  the  sky.  Now  the  god  who  rules  oyer  cattle,  and 
was  here  excluded,  (3)  perceived  that  the  other  gods  were  excluding  him  from  the 
sacrifice.  He  followed  them,  and  rose  up  on  the  north  with  ....  This  is  the  time 
of  the  Svishtakrit.  i.  The  gods  said  to  him,  'Do  not  disturb  (the  sacrifice).'  [He 
rejoined,]  '  Do  not  exclude  me  from  the  sacrifice ;  give  me  an  oblation.'  They  agreed. 
He  kept  together,  and  did  not  scatter,  the  materials  of  the  sacrifice,  or  injure 
anything.  6.  The  gods  said,  '  Take  notice  of  all  the  offerings  which  have  been  pre- 
sented, that  we  may  form  an  oblation  for  him.'  6.  They  said  to  the  Adhvaryu, 
'Sprinkle  the  oblations  in  order  with  butter;  and  again  replerash  each  fragment. 
Make  them  fresh ;  then  cut  off  each  part.'  7.  The  Adhvaryu  accordingly  sprinkled 
the  oblations  in  order  with  butter,  replenished  each  fragment,  made  them  fresh,  and 
divided  all  the  parts  from  each  other." 

The  Bhagavata  Purana,  referred  to  by  Bbhtlingk  and  Both,  s.  v.  Bhaga  and 
Pushan,  has  the  following  verses  on  these  gods :  iv.  5,  20  ]  Bhagasya  netre  bhaga/oan 
patitasya  rusha  bhuvi  \  ujjahdra  sadasstho  'kshna  yah  s'apantam  asusuc/iat  |  21  | 
Fushnas  chapdtayad  dantan  Kalingaaya  yatha  Balah  \  S'apyamane  garimani  yo'hasad 
darsayan  datah  \  "  The  god  (Mahadeva)  in  the  assembly  plucked  out  the  eyes  of 
Bhaga,  whom  in  his  rage  he  had  felled  to  the  ground,  because  with  his  eye  he  had 
made  a  sign  to  [Daksha]  who  was  cursing  [Mahadeva].  21.  And  he  knocked  out  the 
teeth  of  Pushan  (as  Bala  had  done  to  the  king  of  Kalinga),  because,  when  the  great 
god  was  being  cursed,  he  had  laughed,  showing  his  teeth."  vi.  6, 41  |  Pushd  'napat- 
yah  pishtado  bhagna-danto  'bhavat  pura  \  yo  'sau  Dahshaya  kiipitam  jahasa  vivrita- 
dvijali  I  "  Pushan  formerly  became  childless,  an  eater  of  ground  food,  toothless,  because 
he  had  laughed  with  his  teeth  disclosed  at  [Mahadeva],  who  was  incensed  against 
Daksha." 


A  PORTION  OP  THE  SACEIPIOE  ALLOTTED  TO  HIM.        203 

their  refuge.    He  then  hecame  pleased  and  rectified  the  sacrifice,  and 
whatever  was  removed  he  restored  to  life  as  it  had  heen  hefore. 

"  There  were  in  the  sky  three  cities  of  the  valorous  Asuras,  one  of  iron, 
another  of  silver,  and  a  third  of  gold,"'  which  Maghavan  (Indra)  could 
not  demolish,  with  all  his  weapons.  Then  all  the  great  gods,  distressed, 
went  to  the  great  Eudra  as  their  refuge,  and  said  to  him,-  after  they 
were  assemhled  :  '  Eudra,  there  shall  be  victims  devoted  to  thee  in  all  ┬╗ 
the  sacrifices.  Bestower  of  honour,  destroy  the  Daityas  with  their 
cities,  and  deliver  the  worlds.'  He,  being  thus  addressed,  said,  '  So  be 
it ; '  and  making  Vishnu  his  arrow,  Agni  its  barb,  Tama,  the  son  of 
Vivasvat,  its  feather,  all  the  Vedas  his  bow,  and  the  excellent  Savitri 
(the  Gaya&l)"  his  bowstring,  and  having  appointed  Brahma  his 
charioteer,""  he  in  due  time  pierced  through  these  cities  with  a  three- 
jointed  three-barbed  arrow,  of  the  colour  of  the  sun,  and  in  fierceness  '^ 
like  the  fire  which  bums  up  the  world.  These  Asuras  with  their 
cities  were  there  burnt  up  by  Eudra."'  Again,  beholding  him  a  child 
in  the  lap,  with  five  locks,"*  Uma,  desiring  to  know,"'  said,  '  Who  is-S"-  cX^ 

195  See  the  seeond  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  378  ff.,  and  the  Karnar-parvan  of  the  M.Bh. 
v┬╗.  1402  ff.  below. 

1"  See  the  story  from  the  Karna-parvan,  cited  below,  w.  1515  ff. 

in  For  the  older  forms  of  this  story,  see  the  seeond  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  380-384. 

'9S  Lite  an  ascetic,  according  to  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  ┬Ф.  v.  poMchaiikha. 

W  Or,  is  the  proper  rea.^ng  Jijnasamanan,  and  the  sense  this :  "  TJma  said  to  [the 
gods]  who  were  inquiring,  'Who  is  this?'"  There  is  a  parallel  passage  in  the  Drona- 
parvan,  v.  9576,  which  throws  some  light  on  the  one  before  us :  Pwrani  dagdhmiantam 
tarn  dem  yata  praviRshitum  |  ialam  ankagatam  Ttritm  svm/am  panehasi&ham  pimah  \ 
JJma  jynasamana  vai  "  ko'  yam"  ity  abrmit  swan  \  asuyatUs  cha  8'akrasya  vajrma 
praharishyatah  \  iahuih  savajram  lain  tasya  kruddhasyastambliayat  prablmh  \ 
prahasya  hhaga/vamms  turnam  sana-Ukesvaro  vibhuh  \  tatah  samstambhiia-bhujah 
S'akro  deva-ganair  vritah  \  jagama  sa-suras  turnam  BrahmSnam  prabhum  avyayam  \ 
te  tarn  pranamya  sirasa  proohuh  pranjalayaa  tada  \  kimapy  ankagatam  Brahman 
Farvatyah  bhutam  adbhutam  |  bdla-rupa-dharam  drMtvS  nasmabhir  abhivaditah  \ 
tasmat  tvmn  prashtmn  ichhSmo  nirjitah  yena  vai  vayam  |  ayudhyata  hi  balena  lllaya 
sa-purandarah  \  "The  goddess  (Uma)  went  to  see  him  when  he  had  burnt  the  cities, 
having  again  placed  the  child  with  five  locks  in  her  lap.  She  told  the  gods,  who 
inquired  [should  we  read,  Jijdsamanan  ?  though  none  of  the  printed  copies  read  so] 
'  Who  is  this  f '  And  the  divine  lord,  master  of  all  the  worlds,  all-pervading,  with  a 
smile,  instantly  paralyzed  the  arm  and  thunderbolt  of  Indra,  who  showed  ill-will,  and 
in  his  anger  was  about  to  smite  with  the  thunderbolt.  Indra,  his  arm  having  been 
paralyzed,  immediately  went  with  the  gods  to  Brahma,  the  imperishable  lord ;  and 
bowing  with  their  heads,  with  joined  hands,  they  said :  '  0  Brahma,  we  have  seen 
in  the  lap  of  Parvati,  a  wonderful  being  bearing  the  form  of  a  child ;  and  we  have 
not  saluted  him.  Wherefore  we  desire  to  ask  thee  who  is  the  child  by  whom  we, 
ncluding  Indra,  have  been  conquered,  asjf^jlaj^andwithoutanyfight.' " 


l#-f 


%Рќа"' 


204        .  CELEBRATION  OE  MAHADEYA  -.  HIS  TWO  BODIES. 

this  ? '  And  when  Indra,  envious,  was  about  to  smite  him  (the  child) 
with  the  thunderbolt,  he  stayed  the  thunderbolt,  and  paralyzed  that  arm 
resembling  a  club.  None  of  the  gods,  including  Prajapati,  understood 
the  lord  of  the  worlds,  [existing]  in  that  most  mighty  deity  [in  the 
form  of  an  infant].  Then  the  divine  Brahma,  meditating  on  that 
being  of  boundless  glory,  and  knowing  that  he  was  supreme,  adored 
the  lord  of  TJma.  Then  these  gods  propitiated  TJma  and  Kudra ;  and 
the  arm  of  the  slayer  of  hosts  became  as  before.  And  again,  Mahadeva, 
becoming  a  powerful  Brahman,  by  name  Dnrvasas,  dwelt  a  long  time 
in  my  city  Dvaravati.  He  practised  yery  many  perversities  in  my 
house,  which,  though  difficult  to  support,  I,  through  generosity, 
endured.  He  is  Kudra,  he  is  S'iva,  he  is  Agni,  he  is  S'arva,  the  all-con- 
quering ;  he  is  Indra,  he  is  Vayu,  he  is  the  A^vins,  he  is  the  lightning, 
he  is  the  moon,  he  is  Isana,  he  is  Surya,  he  is  Varuna,  he  is  time,  he 
is  Death  the  ender,  he  is  darkness,  and  night,  and  the  days,  he  is  the 
months,  and  the  half  months,  and  the  seasons,  the  morning  and  evening 
twilight,  and  the  year.  He  is  Dhatri,  and  Yidhatri,  Visvakarman,  the 
all-knowing,  the  constellations,  the  planets,  the  regions  [or  quarters], 
and  intermediate  regions  or  [points  of  the  compass]  ;  universal-formed, 
immeasurable  in  essence,  divine,  of  undecaying  splendour.  He  is 
simple,  twofold,  manifold,  a  thousand-fold,  and  a  hundred-thousand- 
fold. Such  is  Mahadeva,  the  vast,  the  divine  unborn  being;  his 
qualities  cannot  be  declared  in  a  hundred  years."  Krishna  proceeds 
uninterruptedly  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  section :  "  Large-armed 
Yudhishthira,  understand  from  me  the  greatness  of  the  glorious,  mul- 
tiform, many-named  Eudra.  They  call  Mahadeva  Agni,  Sthanu, 
Mahe^vara,  One-eyed,  Tryambaka,  the  universal-formed,  and  S'iva. 
Brahmans  versed  in  the  Veda  know  two  bodies  of  this  god,  one  awfiil, 
one  auspicious ;  "^  and  these  two  bodies  again  have  many  forms.  The 
dire  and  awful  body  is  fire,  lightning,  the  sun.  The  auspicious  and 
beautiful  body  is  virtue,  water,  and  the  moon.  The  half  of  his  essence 
is  fire,  and  the  moon  is  called  the  [other]  half.  The  one,  which  is 
his  auspicious  body,  practises  chastity  :  while  the  other,  which  is  his 
most  dreadful  body,  destroys  the  world.  From  his  being  lord  (isvara) 
and  great  (mahat),  he  is  called  Mahe^vara.     Since  he  consumes,  since 

200  In  Yaj,  s.,  V.  8,  Agni  is  said  to  have  three  bodies.    See  the  second  volume  of 
this  work,  p.  381,  note. 


S'IS'UPALA  OBJECTS  TO  THE  HONOUE  SHOWN  TO  KRISHNA.   205 

lie  is  fiery,  fierce,  glorious,  an  eater  of  flesh,  blood,  and  marrow, Рђћ 
he  is  called  Eudra.  As  he  is  the  greatest  of  the  gods,  as  his  domain 
is  -wide,  and  as  he  preserves  the  vast  universe, Рђћ he  is  called  Mahadeva. 
From  his  smoky  colour,  he  is  called  Dhurjati.  Since  he  constantly 
prospers  all  men  in  all  their  acts,  seeking  their  welfare  (siva),  he  is  j 
therefore  called  S'iva,"  etc.,  etc.  G  1':/^ 

In  the  Bhishma-parvan  (vv.  793  ff.)  Krishna  is  introduced  as  recom-J*^      7^ 
mending  Arjuna  to  worship  the  goddess  Durga  :  ┬╗      >' 

Saryayah  uvacha  I  Bhartarashtram  lalam  drisjitva  yuddhaya  sa- 
mv^aathitam  \  Arjunasya  Mtdrihaya  Krishna  vaohanam  ahravlt  \  S'ri- 
hhagavdn  vmacha  \  S'uehir  hhufvd  mahabdho  sangrdmdhhimulche  sthitah  \ 
pardjaydya  iatrundm  Burgd-stotram  udlraya  \  Sanjayah  uv&cha  \  evam 
ukto  ^rjunah  sanhhye  Vdsudevena  dhlmatd  \  avatirya  rathdt  Fdrtha^ 
stotram  dha  hritdnjalih  \ 

"Beholding  the  host  of  Dhritarashtra  come  near  to  the  conflict, 
Krishna,  in  the  interest  of  Arjuna,  addressed  to  him  these  words : 
'  Having  purified  thyself,  0  large-armed  hero,  standing  in  front  of  the 
battle,  utter  a  hymn  to  Durga  for  the  overthrow  of  thine  enemies.' 
Arjuna,  being  thus  addressed  in  battle  by  the  wise  Vasudeva,  descend- 
ing from  his  chariot,  uttered  a  hymn  with  joined  hands." 

III.  In  the  passage  which  I  have  quoted  above  (p.  169,  note  167) 
from  Professor  "Wilson,  it  is  remarked  that  in  some  places  of  the  Maha- 
bharata  the  divine  nature  of  Krishna  is  disputed  or  denied.  An 
instance  of  this  denial  is  to  be  found  in  the  following  passage  of  the 
Sabha-parvan,  in  which  8'isupala,  prince  of  the  Chedis,  is  introduced  as 
objecting  to  the  divine  honours  which  had  been  paid  to  Krishna,  and 
as  ultimately  suffering  the  penalty  of  his  proud  and  contemptuous 
impiety  at  the  hands  of  the  incarnate  deity. 

Tudhishthira  having  resolved  to  perform  the  Eajasuya  sacrifice  (Sabha- 
parvan,  V.  1211),  is  joined  by  Krishna,  who  is  designated  as  Hari,  the 
rishi,  the  ancient,  identified  with  the  Veda,  invisible  to  those  who 
know  him,  the  highest  of  things  moving  and  stationary,  the  source 
and  destroyer  of  all  things,  the  lord  of  the  past,  the  future,  and  the 
present  (v.  1213  :  Athawam  hruvatdm  evam  teshdm  abhydyayau  Swrih  | 
rishih  pwrano  veddtmd  ^driiyai  ehaiva  vijdnatdm  \  jagatas  tasthushd^ 
ireshthah  prahhavai  ehdvyayas  {ohdpyayas})  cha  ha  \  hhuta-bhavya- 
Ihavan-ndthah  Ke&avah  heii-sudanaK).    Numerous  kings  assembled  to 


206   S'lS'UPALA'S  GROUNDS  FOR  REFUSING  HONOUR  TO  KIRISHNA. 

witness  the  celebration  (tv.  1260  ff.).  On  tMs  occasion  Bhtshma  pro- 
posed that,  apart  from  the  customary  presents  bestowed  on  all  the 
kings,  Krishna  should  be  singled  out  as  the  most  eminent  of  the  chiefs 
to  receive  gifts  indicative  of  his  superiority  (vv.  1333  ff.). 

Sabha-parvan,  1333  ff. : Рђћ Esha  hy  esham  samastanam  tyo-hala-para- 
kramaih  \  madhye  tapann  wabhati  jyotish&m  wd  hhaslcaral/,  \  asuryam  iva 
suryena  nirvdtah  iva  vayund^'  \  hhasitam  hldditam  chaiva  Krishnene- 
dam  sado  hi  nah  |  tasmai  BMshmahhyanujnatah  Salutdevah  pratapman  \ 
vp<tjahre  'tha  vidhivad  VarshneyayargJtyam  uttamam  \  pratyagraha  tat 
Krishnah  idstra-dishtena  harmand  \  S'impalas  tu  tdm  pvj'dm  Vdmdeve 
na  chakshame  \  "Por  he,  by  his  energy,  force  and  valour,  appears  shining 
in  the  midst  of  all  these  princes,  like  the  sun  among  the  luminaries. 
This  assembly  of  ours  is  enlightened  and  gladdened  by  Krishna,  as  a 
sunless  place  is  by  the  sun,  and  a  windless  spot  is  by  the  wind.  Com- 
missioned by  Bhishma,  the  majestic  Sahadeva  then  presented  in  due 
form  to  Varshneya  (Krishna)  a  most  excellent  offering,  which  the  latter 
received  with  the  act  prescribed  by  the  sastra.  But  S'isupala  could 
not  endure  that  honour  shown  to  Vasudeva." 

S'isupala  then  proceeds  to  state  at  length  a  variety  of  objections 
to  what  had  been  done  (vv.  1338  ff.).  He  urges  that  Krishna 
was  a  "transgressor  of  the  injunctions  of.  law  {smriti),  a  contempt- 
ible and  ill-instructed  person"  (v.  1340:  Ay  am  eha  smrity-atihrdnto  hy 
apageyo  ^Ipa-darianaK) ;  that  he  was  not  a  king,  or  a  person  vener- 
able from  age,  his  father  Vasudeva  being  still  alive  (v.  1343  :  Afhmd 
manyase  Krishmm  sthavvram  Kuru-punga/va  I  Vasudeve  sthite  vriddJie 
hatham  arhati  tat-sutah  |  )  ;  that  in  other  respects  he  was  inferior 
to  other  chiefs  present,  and  that  he  had  unjustly  killed  Jarasandha 
(v.  1360,  compare  verses  1474  ff.)  ;  and  taunts  him  with  being  greatly 
elated  with  the  undeserved  honour  that  had  been  paid  him,  like  a  dog 
devouring  in  a  secret  place  the  leavings  of  an  oblation  which  he  has 
discovered  (v.  1364 :  AyuMdm  dtmanah  pujdfh  tvam  punar  bahu  man- 
yase I  Iiavishah  prdpya  nisyandam  prdiitd  iveva  nvrjane  \  ).'"*    Having 

""i  This  line  had  previously  occurred  as  part  of  verse  1218  of  the  same  Parvau. 

'"^  Similarly  we  read  in  S'is'upala's  speech  on  the  same  occasion  as  given  in  the 
Bhagavata  Purana,  s.  74,  34 :  ....  Gopalah  kula-pamsanah  \  yatha  kakah  purodd- 
dcm  saparyam  katham  arhati  \  "  How  does  this  cowherd,  the  vilest  of  Ms  race, 
deserve  homage,  any  more  than  a  crow  deserves  to  eat  an  oblation  p "  The  com- 
mentator thus  gives  what  he  calls  the  "real  sense"  of  these  words:  "Gopala^" 


BHlSHMA  DEFENDS  KRISHNA'S  CLAIMS  TO  HONOUR.      207 

thus  vented  Ms  indigaation,  S'i^upala  leaves  the  assembly,  followed 
by  Tudhishthira,  who  endeavours  to  soothe  him.  Bhishma  then 
defends  Erishna's  claims  to  the  honour  which  he  had  received 
(vv.  1377  ff.) : 

Na  M  Icevalcm  mmaham  aya/m  mchyatamo  ''chyutah  \  trayanam  api 
lokdndm  arehamyo  mahabhujah  \  Krishnena  hi  jitah  yuddhe  hahavah 
hshatriyarshahhdh  \  j'agat  sarvam  oha  Varshneye  nikhihna  pratuththitam\ 
tasmat  satsv  a/pi  vriddheshu  Krishnwm  a/rohami  netaran  |  .  .  .  .  1382. 
ITa  hevalani  vayam.  kdmaoh  Chedi-rdja  JoMdrdanam,  \  na  samhandham 
jpuraskritya  kriidrtham  vd  hathanchana  \  wrchdmah┬╗  'rehitafh  sadbhir 
bhwvi  bhuta-suhhdvaham  \  Yasah  kawyafh,  jayafh  chdsya  mjndyarehdm 
prayuymahe  \  na  oha  Icaichid  ihdsmdlhih  subdlo  'py  apwnkshitah  \  gunair 
vriddhdn  atikramya  Sarir  archyatamo  matah  \  jndna-vriddho  dvijdtindm 
Icshatriyandm  balddhikah  \  "1377:  This  unfailing  being  (Achyuta)  is 
not  only  deserving  of  the  utmost  worship  from  us,  but,  large  of  arm, 
he  is  also  to  be  worshipped  by  the  three  worlds.  For  many  eminent 
Kshatriyas  have  been  conquered  by  Krishna:  and  the  whole  world 
rests  upon  Varshneya.     "Wherefore,  even  though  there  be  aged  men 

[present],  I  worship  Krishna,  and  not  the  others 1382:  It 

is  not  therefore  from  interested  motives,  king  of  the  Chedis,  nor  in 
consequence  of  our  connexion,  nor  for  the  sake  of  anything  he  has 
done  for  us,  that  we  worship  Janardana,  who  is  worshipped  by  the 
good  on  earth,  and  who  promotes  the  happiness  of  creatures.  But 
knowing  his  renown,  heroism,  and  victories,  we  offer  him  our  worship. 
ITor  is  there  here  any  mere  youth  whom  we  have  never  tried.  Hari 
surpassing  the  aged  in  his  virtues,  is  regarded  by  us  as  most  worthy 

iti  veda-prithivy-adi-palakah  ity  arthali  \  kutsitam  veda-viparitam  lapanti  iti  Jculmah 
pahhandah  \  tan  cmsate  samaghatayati  iti  tatha  mh  \  "  akakah  "  ham  cha  akam  ch'a 
Kake  (-Aa+ai┬Ф)  sukha-duhkhe  te  na  vidyete  yasya  sajf  \  "akakah"  aptakamah  ity 
mrthaji  I  sa  yatha  aptakamo  deva-yogyam  pmodnia-mSiram  na  arhati  apitu  sarvasvam 
api  tatha  'yam  srt-krishno  hrahmarshi-yogyaih  samarpana-matraih  katham  arhati  I 
kintv  atma-samarpanam  apy  arhati  ity  arthah  \  " '  Gopala '  means  the  protector  of 
the  Veda,  the  earth,  etc.  '  Ku-lapah '  are  those  who.  speak  what  is  evilj  contrary  to 
the  Veda,  heretics.  '  Knlapamsana '  (Ku+lapa+amsana)  is  thus  one  who  destroys 
{ornate)  such  persons.  '  Akakah '  (the  commentator  chooses  here  to  suppose  that 
there  is  an  elided  a  between  yathd  and  kakah)  is  one  to  whom  ('  kake ')  pleasure 
and  pain  (Aa+B+Aa)  do  not  attach ;  one  who  has  gained  all  he  desires.  Just  as 
such  an  one  merits  not  merely  an  ohlation  suitable  for  a  deity,  but  all  wealth  also 
so  Krishna  does  not  deserve  merely  the  offering  suitable  for  a  Brahman-jdshi  but 
also  the  offering  up  of  one's  self." 


208         BHISHMA'S  REASONS  FOE  HONOUEING  KRISHNA. 

of  worship.  In  knowledge  he  excels  Brahmans,  and  in  force 
Kshatriyas."  .... 

1386:  Pujyatayancha  Qovinde  hetu  dvdv  api  samsthitau  \  veda-veddnga- 
vijnanam  lalafh  ehdpy  adhikafh  tathd  \  nrindrh  lohe  hi  ko  ^nyo  'sti  vUish- 
tah  Kesavad  rite  \  danafh  dakshyam  irutam  saury  am  hrlh  Icirtir  buddhir 
uttama  \  sannatih  irir  dhritis  tushiih  pushtUeha  niyata  ^chywte  \  tarn 
imam  hJca-sampannam  dcharyam  pitaram  gurum  \  wrghyam  architam 
archdrham  sarve  samhshantum  arhatha  \  ritvig  gurur  vivdhya^  cha  snatako 
nripatih  priyah  |  sarvaih  etad  Hrishlkeias  tasmdd  dbhyarchito  ^chyutah  | 
Krishnah  eva  hi  lokdndm  utpattir  api  chdpyayah  \  Krishnasya  hi  krite 
visvam  idam  hhutam  characharam  \  esha  prakritir  avyakta,  karta  chaiva 
sandtanah  \  paras  cha  sarva-lhutehhyai  tasmdd  pujyatamo  'chyutah  \ 
Buddhir  mano  mahad  vdyus  tej'o  'mhhah  kham  mahi  cha  yd  \  chatv/r- 

vidham  cha  yad  hhutam  sarvam  Krishne  pratishthitam  \ 

1396 :  Sa-devakeshu  lokeshu  hhagavdn  Kekamo  mukham  \  ay  am.  tu 
pwusho  hdlah  S'isupdlo  na  ludhyate  \  sarvatra  sarvadd  Krishnam 
tasmdd  evam  prabhdshate  |  yo  hi  dha/rmam,  vichinuydd  utkrishtam 
matimdn  narah  \  so  vai  pakyed  ydthd  dha/rmam  na  tathd  Chedi-rdd  ayam\ 
sa-vriddha-ldhshv  athavd  pdrthiveshu  mahdtmasu  \  ko  ndrham  manyate 
Krishnam  ko  i>d  py  enam  na  pujayet  \  athaindm  dushhritdm  pujdm,  S'isu- 
pdlo vyavasyati  |  dushkritdydm  yathdnydyam  tathd  ^yam  kartum  arhaii] 

"  There  are  two  reasons  why  Govinda  is  worthy  of  honour :  his 
knowledge  of  the  Vedas  and  Vedangas,  and  his  superior  strength.  For 
who  in  the  world  of  men  is  distinguished  except  Eesava  ?  Generosity, 
ability,  sacred  learning,  heroism,  modesty,  eminent  renown,  intelligence, 
humility,  splendour,  endurance,  cheerfulness  and  joyousness,  exist  con- 
tinually in  Achyuta.  You  ought  all  to  tolerate  this  teacher  arisen  in 
the  world  (or  successful  in  the  world),  this  father,  preceptor,  venerable, 
honoured,  deserving  of  honour.  Priest,  preceptor,  marriageable  man, 
householder,  king,  beloved, Рђћ Hrishikesa  is  all  this,  and  therefore  he 
has  been  honoured.  It  is  Krishna  who  is  the  origin  and  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  worlds :  all  this  universe,  movable  and  immovable,  has 
come  into  being  through  (or  for  the  sake  of)  Krishna.^Рёб    He  is  un- 

203  The  grounds  urged  for  honouring  Krishna  in  this  and  the  following  verses  are 
of  a  different  character  from  those  in  the  preceding  lines,  which  do  not  ascribe  to 
him  any  qualities  of  a  superhuman  character ;  whilst  the  succeeding  ones  do.  It  is 
quite  possible  that  the  whole  of  this  description  of  his  qualities  may  not  be  of  one 
age,  but  may  contain  interpolations  subsequently  introduced. 


S'IS'UPALA'S  DEPRECIATION  OF  KRISHNA.  209 

distinguishable  matter  (prakriti),  and  he  is  the  eternal  maker,  transceud- 
ing  all  beings :  hence  Achyuta  is  most  worthy  of  honour.  Intellect, 
mind,  the  great  one  (mahat),  air,  fire,  water,  sky,  and  earth Рђћ whatever 

fourfold  being  exists Рђћ all  depends  upon  Krishna 1396.  The 

divine  Ke^ava  is  chief  among  the  worlds  including  the  gods.  But  this 
foolish  man,  S'isupala,  does  not  know  that  Krishna  [is]  everywhere, 
and  alwaysРђћ and  hence  he  speaks  thus.  For  this  king  of  the  Chedis 
does  not  regard  righteousness  in  the  same  way  as  an  intelligent  man 
who  can  distinguish  eminent  righteousness.  Who  is  there,  whether 
among  old  or  young,  or  among  mighty  kings,  who  will  not  regard 
Krishna  as  honourable,  or  who  will  not  reverence  him  ?  S'isupala 
treats  this  honour  as  unduly  paid.  But  it  having  been  unduly  paid, 
he  should  act  as  is  befitting." 

S'isupala  afterwards  renews  his  vilifications  of  Krishna,  in  a  long 
harangue,  of  which  the  following  is  a  specimen  (vv.  1433  ff.)  : 

1433.  8'isupdlah  uvdcha  \  vihhlshikabMr  hahvibhir  hhuhayan  sarva- 
pdriMvdn  |  na  vi/apatrapase  Tiasmdd,  vriddhah  aan  Icula-pdnisanah  \  yuh- 
tam  etat  tritlydydm  prakritau  vmrtatd  tvayd  \  vaktum  dharmdd  apetdr- 
tharh  tvam  hi  sarva-huruttamalK]  \  ndvi  naur  iva  samladdhd  yathd  'ndho 
vd  'ndham  awoiydt  \  tathd  Ihutdh  hi  Kauravyah  yesha.m  Bhlshma  tvam 
agranlh  \  Putand-ghdta-purvdni  ha/rmdny  asya  viSeshatah  |  tvayd  klrta- 
yatd  ''smakam  hhuyah  prmyathitam  manah  \  woaliptmya  murhhasya  Ee&a- 
vam  stotum  iehhatah  \  hatham  Bhlshma  na  te  jihvd  iatadheyam  vidiry- 
yate  \  yatra  kutsd  prayoktavyd  Bhishma  bdlatarair  naraih  |  tarn  imam 
jndna-vriddhah  san  gopam  samstotum  ichhasi  \  yady  anena  hatd  balye 
sakuni^  chiiram  atra  Mm  \  tau  vd  ' sva-vrishahhau  Bhishma  yaw  na 
yuddha-visdradau  \  ohetand-rahitam  kdshtham  yady  anena  nipdtitam  \ 
pddena  sakatam  Bhlshma  tatra  kirn  kritam  adhhutam  \  valmika-matrah 
saptdham.  yady  anena  dhrito  'ohalah  \  tadd  Oovmrdhano  Bhlshma  na  taeh 
ehitram  matam  mama  \  hhuktam  etena  lahv  annam  krldatd  nagarmurdhani\ 
iti  te  Bhlshma  srinvdndh  param  vismayam  dgatah  \  yasya  chdnena  dhar- 
ma-jna  hhuktam  annam  hallyasah  \  sa  chdnena  hatah  Kamsah  ity  etan  na 
mahddlhutam  \  na  te  srutam  idam  Bhlshma  nunam  kathayatdm  satdm  I 
yad  vakshye  tvdm  adharma-jnafh  vakyam  Kuru-kulddhama  \  strlshu  goshu 
na  iasirdni  pdtayed  Irdhmaneshu  cha  |  yasya  ehanndni  bhunjUa  yasya 
cha  sydt  pratisrayah  |  iti  santo  'nuidsanti  sajjanam  dharminah  sadd  I 
Bhlshma  lake  hi  tat  sarvam  vitatham  tvayi  dri^yate  \  jndna-vriddham  eha 

VOL.  IV.  i^ 


210  S'IS'UPALA'S  DEPEECIATIOJSr  OF  KRISHNA. 

vridiham  cha  Ihuyamsaffi  Keiavam  mama  \  ajanatah  ivdhhyasi  samstman 
Kauraoadhama  \  go-ghnah  stri-ghnas  cha  san  Bhishma  tvad-vahyad  yadi 
pujyate  \  evam-lihutak  cha  yo  Bhishma  hatham  samstavam  arhati  |  .  .  . 
1451.  Ifunam  prahritir  esha  tejaghanya  ndtra  samkayah  \  atah  paptyasl 
chaishdm  Fdndavanam  aptshyate  \  yeshdm  archyatamah  Krishnas  tvam 
cha  yeshdm  pradarsakah,  |  dhmrmmdms  tvam  adharma-jnah  satdm  mdrgdd 
avaplutah  |  ityddi  \ 

S'isupala  answers  Bhishma:  "How  is  it  that  thou,  disgracing  thy 
race,  art  not  ashamed,  old  man  as  thou  art,  to  terrify  all  the  kings  with 
many  alarms?  It  is  very  fitting  [forsooth]  that  thou  who  art  now 
existing  in  the  third  condition,^"*  shouldst  utter  things  contrary  to 
righteousness,  seeing  thou  art  the  most  eminent  of  all  the  Kurus ! 
For  as  a  boat  is  tied  to  a  boat,  or  as  one  blind  man  follows  another, 
so  is  it  with  the  Kurus  of  whom  thou,  Bhishma,  art  the  leader. 
Our  minds  have  frequently  been  vexed  by  thee  when  detailing  his 
(Krishna's)  slaughter  of  Putana^┬░┬░  and  other  feats.  How  is  it, 
Bhishma,  that  thy  tongue,  thou  proud  fool,  is  not  split  into  a  hundred 
pieces,  when  thou  seekest  to  magnify  Kesava  ?  Thou  who  art  ripe  in 
knowledge,  art  eager  to  eulogize  the  cowherd  who  ought  to  be  vilified 
even  by  the  sUliest  of  men  !  If  in  his  childhood  he  slew  S'akuni,*"'  or 
the  horse  and  buU,  who  had  no  skill  in  fighting,  what  is  the  wonder  ? 
If  a  waggon,  an  inanimate  piece  of  wood,  was  upset  by  him  with  his 
foot,'"'  what  wonderful  thing  did  he  do  ?  If  the  mountain  Govardhana, 
a  mere  ant-hill,  was  held  up  by  him  for  seven  days,^┬░^  I  do  not  regard 
that  as  anything  remarkable.     Hearing  that  when  playing  on  the  hiU- 

204  The  commentator  explains  this  phrase  as  follows:  Dve prakritl parinSminyau 
maya  tasyam  chit-pratimmbas  'cha  \  iritiya  prahritis  tv  etad-ubhayadhyasadhish- 
thanam  nirmieshaih  vastu  \  tatra  vartata  vartamanena,  etc.  "  Two  conditions  are 
changeable,  tiz.  (1)  illusion  {mayd)  and  (2)  the  reflected  image  of  thought  {ohit- 
prativimba)  in  it.  The  third  condition  is  the  basis  of  the  erroneous  ascription  of 
the  other  two,  substance  without  distinction,"  etc.  I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  B.  Eost 
for  an  important  suggestion  regarding  the  combination  of  two  of  the  words  in  this 
sentence.  Dr.  Eost  informs  me  that  in  the  text  one  MS.  reads  huruttamali  and 
another  sarvam  Tiuruttama. 

205  X  female  demon  slain  by  Krishna.Рђћ See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  506 
(vol.  It;,  p.  276,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 

206  See  the  Udyoga-parvan  4409,  where  Putaua  and  S'aknnl  (there  spelt  with  a 
long  I)  are  mentioned  together  as  haying  been  slain  by  Krishna  in  ohUdhood. 

M'  See  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  508  (vol.  iv.,  p.  279,  of  Dr.  HaU's  ed.). 
S08  See  VishQU  Parana,  p.  526  (vol.  iv.,  p.  315,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


S'IS'OTALA'S  EAELY  HISTOET  TOLD  BY  BHISHMA.  21 1 

top,  he  had  eaten  a  great  quantity  of  food,  these  people  were  very 
much  astonished.  And  it  is  no  great  miracle,  0  Bhishma,  thou  judge 
of  duty,  that  he  slew  Kansa,  the  powerful  king  whose  food  he  had 
eaten.  Hast  thou  not  heard  virtuous  men  declaring  this  which  I  shall 
tell  thee,  who  art  ignorant  of  duty,  Bhishma,  thou  basest  of  the  tribe 
of  Eurus  ?  '  Let  no  one  smite  with  his  weapons  women, ^┬░'  cattle,  or 
Brahmans,  or"  him  whose  food  he  eats,  or  on  whom  he  is  dependent.' 
Such  is  the  instruction  which  good  and  virtuous  men  always  give  to  a 
virtuous  [pupil].  All  this,  Bhishma,  is  seen  by  all  to  be  falsified  in 
thee.  Thou,  basest  of  the  Kurus,  eulogizing,  speakest  of  Kesava  as 
old  in  knowledge,  and  mature,  and  superior,  as  if  I  did  not  know  him. 
If  he,  being  a  slayer  of  cattle,  and  of  women,  is,  according  to  thy 
word,  to  be  referenced, Рђћ how,  BiKshma,  can  such  a  person  merit 
encomium?  .  .  .'.  1451.  Certainly  this  nature  of  thine  is  base,  of 
this  there  is  no  doubt;  and  hence  [the  nature]  of  these  Pandavas 
also  is  shown  to  be  most  wicked, Рђћ [these  Pandavas]  to  whom  Krishna 
is  an  object  of  the  highest  honour,  and  of  whom  thou  art  the  virtuous 
preceptor, Рђћ thou,  who  art  ignorant  of  duty,  and  hast  gone  astray  from 
the  path  of  good  men  !  " 

This  speech  excites  the  wrath  of  Bhimasena  (v.  1482),  who,  how- 
ever, is  restrained  by  Bhishma  from  assaulting  S'isupala,  though  the 
latter  is  anxious  to  fight  him.  Bhishma  then  goes  on  (1494  fi^.)  to 
give  Bhimasena  an  account  of  S'isupala's  infancy  and  early  history. 
He  had,  it  seems,  been  born  with  three  eyes  and  four  arms ;  and  his 
parents,  alarmed  at  his  portentous  appearance,  were  disposed  to  cast 
him  out,  but  were  prevented  by  a  voice  from  the  sky,  which  declared 
to  them  that  the  time  fated  for  his  death  had  not  yet  arrived.  In 
answer  to  his  mother's  inquiry,  the  voice  informed  her  that  her  son 
was  doomed  to  die  by  the  hands  of  the  person  who  should  take  him 
into  his  lap,  and  by  so  doing  should  occasion  his  two  superfluous  arms 
to  drop  off,  and  his  third  eye  to  disappear.  A  part  of  this  prediction 
was  fulfilled  when  Krishna  came  and  took  him  into  his  lap,  and  the 
infant  got  rid  of  his  superfluous  members.^"'     On  seeing  this,   his 

"M  See  above,  pp.  152  f. 

''"  Oa  this  story  of  S'isupala  Lassen  remarks  (Indian  Antiquities,  i.  p.  674  first  ed.  Рђб 
p.  822  second  ed.) :  "  S'is'upala  in  this  case  represents  S'iva,  and  the  conflict  of  the 
S'iva- worship  with  that  of  Vishnu :  for  he  was  born  with  three  eyes  and  four  arms 
and  the  legend  attributes  the  falling  off  of  his  two  superfluous  arms  and  the  dis- 


212  S'lS'UPALA  EEPEOVED  BY  BHfSHMA. 

mother  begged  a  boon  from  Krishna,  viz.  that  he  would  forgive 
S'isupala's  offences.  Krishna  promises  to  pardon  a  hundred.  Bhishma 
then  proceeds  (v.  1518  ff.): 

Evam  esha  nri/pah  papah  S'Uupdlah  sumanda-dMh  \  tvarn  samahvayate 
vira  Oovinda-vara-da/rpitah  \  Naiaha  Chedi-pater  luddhir  yaya  tva  "hva- 
yate  'chyutam  \  nunam  esha  Jagad-hhartuh  Krishnasyaiva  vinischayah  | 
Ico  hi  mam  BMmasenddya  kshitav  a/rhati  parthivah  \  hsheptum  Tcdla-pan- 
tdtma  yathaisha  kula-pamsanah  ]  esha  hy  asya  mahdhahus  tej'o  ^miai  cha 
Ha/rer  dli/rwvam  \  tarn,  eva  punar  dddtum  ichhaty  uta  tatfia  vibhuh  \ 
yenaisha  Kwru-sdrdiila  sdrdulah  iva  Chedi-rdt  \  gmjaty  atlva  durhuddhih 
sarmn  asmdn  achintayan  \ 

"Thus  this  wicked  king  S'isupala,  slow  of  understanding,  proud 
of  the  boon  conferred  by  Govindt,  challenges  thee,  0  hero.  This 
does  not  show  wisdom  in  the  lord  of  the  Chedis,  that  he  challenges 
thee  who  art  Achyuta.  For  this  is  the  fixed  opinion  of  Krishna, 
the  sustainer  of  the  world,  '"WTiat  king  on  earth,  0  Bhimasena, 
ought  to-day  to  revile  me,  deprived  by  destiny  of  his  reason,  like 
this  degrader  of  his  race?'  For  this  large-armed  (S'isupala)  is  cer- 
tainly [an  emanation  of]  the  strength,  and  a  portion,  of  Hari,  which 
the  pervading  [deity]  wishes  to  draw  back  again  [into  himself] ;  in 
consequence  of  which,  0  chief  of  the  Kurus,  this  foolish  king  of  the 
Chedis  growls  loudly,  like  a  tiger,  disregarding  us  all." 

S'isupala  here  breaks  in  angrily  (v.  1524  ff.),  and  asks  why  Krishna 
should  be  so  praised  to  the  exclusion  of  all  other  warlike  kings. 
Bhishma  replies  (1561),  that  he  values  not  a  straw  all  the  other  chiefs 
who  were  present.  On  hearing  this,  some  of  them  became  greatly 
incensed ;  and  some  cried  out  that  Bhishma  should  be  killed  or  burned. 
Bhishma  replied  that  they  might  slay  or  burn  him  if  they  pleased, 
but  that  Krishna,  the  object  of  his  reverence,  would  survive,  and  that 

appearance  of  his  frontal  eye  to  the  look  and  embrace  of  Srklina.  This  story  is  of 
especial  importance  for  the  purpose  of  determining  the  periods  to  which  the  different 
parts  of  the  Mahabharata  belong.  Krishna's  deification  belongs  to  the  period  after 
Buddha.  In  the  attack  upon  Jarasandha  he  is  still  exhibited  principally  as  a  hero, 
acts  upon  human  motives,  and  performs  actions  unworthy  of  a  god :  but  there  are 
evident  beginnings  of  his  deification,"  The  same  author  adds  in  a  note  on  the  same 
page  (p.  823,  second  ed.) :  "  S'iiupala  is  probably  an  earlier  name  of  S'iva,  who  is 
called  '  Pas'upatl,'  or  lord,  protector,  of  beasts.  '  S'is'u '  denotes  the  young  of  men 
and  beasts,  and  'pala'  protector.  He  had  a  second  name  'Sunitha'  (Sabhap.  t.  1410), 
which  no  doubt  was  the  proper  one." 


S'lS'UPALA  CHALLENGES  KRISHNA  TO  FIGHT.  213 

any  one  wto  was  desirous  to  incur  speedy  destruction  should  challenge 
him  to  fight.  S'isupala  hereupon  challenges  Krishna ;  and  the  narra- 
tive proceeds : 

(Verses  1561  IF.):  Tatah  iruivaiva  Bhuhmasya  Cheii-rad  uru-vikra- 
mah  I  yuyutmr  Vaaudemna  Vdsudevam  uvdcha  ha  \  ahvaye  tmm  ranam 
gachha  maya  sdrdham  Janardana  \  yavad  adya  nihanmi  tvaih  sahitam 
swoa-Pandmaih  \  saha  tvaya  hi  me  hadhydh  sarvathd  Krishna  Pdndavdh] 
nripatln  samatikramya  yair  a/rdjd  tvam  architah  \  ye  tvdm.  dasam  ardjd- 
nam  hdlyad  archanti  durmatim  |  anarham  arha-vat  Krishna  hadhyds 
te  iti  me  matih  \  ity  uhtvd  rdja-iardula  \_s  ?'\  tasthau  garjann  amarshanah  \ 
evam  uMe  tatah  Krishna  mridu-purvam  idafk  vachah  \  uvdcha  pdrthivdn 
sarvdn  sa.  samalcsharn  cha  Pandavan  \  esha  nah  satrur  atyantam  parthivdh 
Sdtvati-sutah  \  Satvatdndm  nriiamsdtmd  na  hito  'napakdrindm  |  Prdg- 
jyotisha-puram  ydtan  asmdn  jndtvd  nrisamsa-krit  \  adahad  Bvdrakam 
esha  svasriyah  san  narddhipdh  \  kridato  Bhoja-rdjasya  esha  Eaivatake 
girau  \  hatvd  haddhva  cha  tan  sarvdn  updydt  sva-purampurd  |  aivamedhe 
hay  am  medJiyam  utsrishtam  rakshihhir  vritam  \  pitur  me  yajna-vighndrtham 
aharat  fdpa-nikchwyah  \  Sauvirdn  pratiydtdncha  Babhror  esha  tapasvi- 
nah  I  Ihdrydm  alhyaharad  mohdd  akdmd  [m  ?']  tarn  ito  gatdm  \  esha  mdyd- 
pratichhannah  Kdrusharthe  tapasvimm  \  j'ahdra  Bhadrdm  Vaiidlim  md- 
tulasya  nriiamsa-vat  \  pitri-svasuh  krite  duhkham  sumahad  marshaydmy 
aham  \  dishtyd  hldam  sarva-rdjndm  sannidhdv  adya  vartate  \  pa^yanti 
hi  hhavanto  ^dya  mayy  atlva  vyatikramam  |  kritdni  tuparoksham  me  yani 
tdni  nibodhata  \  imam  tv  asya  na  sakshydmi  kshantum  adya  vyatikramam  \ 
avdlepdd  hadhdrhasya  samagre  rdja-mandale  \  Rukminydm  asya  mudhasya 
prdrthand  "sid  mumurshatah  |  na  cha  tarn  prdptavdn  mudhah  Sudrah 
vedasrutlm  iva  \  evam-ddi  tatah  sa/rve  sahitds  te  na/rddhipdh  \  Vdsudeva- 
vaehah  srutvd  Chedi-rdjam  vyagarhayan  I  tasya  tad-vachamam  ^rutvd 
Sisvpdlah  pratdpavdn  \ja%dsa  svanavaddhdsam  vdkyam  ehedam  uvdcha 
ha  I  mat-purvdm  Rukminlm  Krishna  samsatsu  pariklrtayan  \  viieshatah 
pdrthiveshu  vriddm  na  kurushe  katham  \  manyamdno  hi  kah  satsu purvshah 
parikirtayet  |*  anya-purvdm  striyaih  jdtu  tvad-anyo  Madhusudana  \ 
kshama  vd  yadi  te  sraddhd  md  vd  Krishna  mama  kshama  \  kruddhdd  vd 
'pi  prasanndd  vd  kirn  me  tvatto  ihavishyati  \  tathd  Iruvatah  evdsya 
hhagavdn  Madhmudanah  \  manasa  'chintayach  chakram  daitya-garva- 
nisudanam  \  etdsminn  eva  kdle  tu  chakre  hasta-gate  sati  \  uvdcha  hhaga- 
vdn uchchair  vdkyam  vakya-viidradah  \  srinvantu  me  mahipdldh  yenaitat 


214  KRISHNA  DETAILS  S'IS'UPALA'S  MISDEEDS. 

hshamitam  maya  \  a^aradha-satam  Icshamyam  mdtiir  aayaiva  ydcharie  | 
dattam  maya  ydchitam  cha  tad  vai  purnam  hi  pdrthivdh  \  adhuna  la- 
dhayishyami  pasyatdrh  vo  maMhhitam  \  evam  ulctvd  Yadu-sreshfhas 
Chedwdjasya  tat-kshandt  |  vyapdharach  ohhirah  hruddhai  chakrendmitra- 
ka/rshanah  \  sa  pa/pdta  mahdhdhur  vajrahatah  ivdchalah  \ 

"  The  king  of  tte  Chedis,  mighty  in  valour,  desirous  to  fight  with 
Yasudeva,  after  he  had  heard  Bhishma,  then  addressed  the  former: 
'  I  challenge  thee,  approach  to  combat  with  me,  Janardana,  till  I  slay 
thee  with  aU  the  Pandavas.  For  together  with  thee,  Krishna,  I  must 
utterly  destroy  the  Pandavas,  who,  passing  over  kings,  have  honoured 
thee  who  art  no  king.  They  who,  through  folly,  honour  thee,  a 
fool,  who  art  a  slave,  and  no  king,  and  who  art  unworthy,  as  if  thou 
wert  worthy,  [they,  I  say,J  ought  in  my  opinion  to  be  slain.'  Having 
so  spoken,  the  tiger  of  kings  stood  growling  and  indignant.  Krishna 
then  addressed  these  mild  words  to  all  the  kings  and  the  Pandavas,  in 
their  presence :  '  This  son  of  SatvatI,  0  princes,  is  the  hitter  enemy, 
truculent  and  ill-disposed,  of  us  the  Satvatas,  who  have  done  him  no 
wrong.  This  malignant  man,  a  sister's  son,  knowing  that  we  had  set 
out  for  the  city  of  the  Pragjj'otishas,  burned  Dvaraka.  While  the 
king  of  the  Bhojas  was  formerly  amusing  himself  on  the  Kevata 
mountain,  he  slew  and  captured  them  all,  and  then  returned  home. 
-Bent  upon  wickedness,  to  interrupt  my  father's  sacrifice,  he  carried 
off  the  horse  intended  as  a  victim,  which  had  been  let  loose,  attended 
by  keepers.  He  in  his  infatuation  carried  off  the  wife  of  the  devotee 
Babhru,  who  had  set  out  to  return  to  [the  country  of]  the  Sauvlras, 
who  had  gone  hence,  and  who  had  no  passion  [for  him].  Under  a 
magical  disguise,  he,  like  a  cruel  wretch,  carried  off  for  the  Karusha 
the  devout  Bhadra,  daughter  of  Visala,  [the  daughter]  of  my  maternal 
uncle.  Por  the  sake  of  my  father's  sister  (S'isupala's  mother),  I  submit 
to  great  vexation.  Fortunately,  this  occurs  to-day  in  presence  of  aU.  the 
princes,  for  ye  all  behold  the  great  transgression  committed  against  me. 
As  for  the  offences  which  have  been  done  out  of  your  sight,  learn  them 
from  me.  I  shall  not  to-day  be  able  to  endure  this  transgression  of 
this  infatuated  man,  who,  for  his  presumption,  deserves  to  be  slain  in 
the  full  assembly  of  princes.  He  who  is  doomed  to  die,  sought  to 
gain  Eukmini,  but  the  fool  did  not  obtain  her,  as  a  STidra  is  excluded 
from  the  veda.'      Hearing  these  and  such  other  words  of  Yasudeva, 


S'IS'UPALA  RETALIATES,  AND  IS  SLAIN  BY  KRISHNA.       215 

all  the  princes  together  then  reviled  the  king  of  the  Chedis.  But  the 
mighty  S'isupala,  hearing  these  words,  laughed  a  sonorous  laugh,  and 
thus  spake :  '  How  is  it,  that  thou  art  not  ashamed,  Krishna,  thus  in 
the  assemhly,  and  especially  before  the  princes,  to  make  mention  of 
EukminI,  who  was  betrothed  to  me?'"  For  what  man  but  thou, 
Madhusudana,  after  reflection,  would"  mention  among  respectable 
persons  a  woman  who  had  been  betrothed  to  another  ?  Porgive  me, 
Erishna,  if  thou  hast  generosity,  or  refuse  to  forgive  me.  "What  shall 
happen  to  me  from  thee  whether  thou  art  well-pleased  or  angry?' 
As  he  thus  spake,  the  divine  Madhusudana  in  his  mind  thought  upon 
the  discus,  the  humbler  of  the  pride  of  the  Daityas.  The  discus 
having  come  into  his  hand  at  that  very  time,  the  divine  being,  skilled 
in  words,  uttered  aloud  this  word:  'Let  the  kings  listen  to  me  by 
whom  this  forgiveness  has  been  practised.  At  the  request  of  his 
mother,  a  hundred  offences  were  to  he  pardoned.  That  request  was 
granted  by  me,  and  it  has  been  fulfilled,  0  kings.  I  shall  now  slay 
him,  while  you  kings  look  on.'  Having  thus  spoken,  the  chief  of  the 
Yadus,  the  vexer  of  his  foes,  incensed,  instantly  struck  off  the  head 
of  the  king  of  the  Chedis  with  his  discus.  The  great-armed  (warrior) 
fell  like  a  mountain  smitten  by  a  thunder-bolt."  Рёб 

'"  Eutmini  had  been  betrothed  to  S'ie'upala,  as  we  are  told  in  the  Vishnu  Parana, 
T.  26,  1  ┬Бf.  (Wilson,  p.  673,  first  ed. ;  p.  69,  vol.  v.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.) :  Bhlskmakah 
Kundine  raja  Vidarbha-viahaye  'bhavat  \  Mukim  tasyabhavat  putro  Sukminl  eha 
varangana  \Ruhmin'im  chaha>ne  Krishnnh  sa  cha  tarn  charu~hasim\  na  dadauy achate 
ehainam  Muknu  dves?uma  ehakrim  \  dadau  cha  8'is'upalaya,  JarSscmdha-prachoditah  I 
Bhlshmaleo  Rukmina  sarddham  Rukminim  uru-vikramah  |  "  Bhishmaka  was  king  in 
Kundina,  in  the  country  of  the  Vidarbhas.  Eukmin  was  his  son,  and  the  beautiful 
Rukmini  (his  daughter).  Krishna  loved  B-ukmini,  and  the  sweetly-smiling  maid 
(loved)  him,  but  Rukmin  did  not  give  her  to  the  wielder  of  the  discus,  when  he 
asked  her ;  but  urged  by  Jarasandha,  Bhishmaka,  mighty  in  valour,  together  with 
Eukmin,  gave  her  to  S'is'upala."  Krishna  comes  to  witness  the  nuptials  of  his 
rival,  and  carries  off  the  princess  on  the  eve  of  the  wedding.  .  The  story  is  told  at 
greater  length  in  the  Harivams'a,  sect.  117,  vv.  6579  ff.;  and  in  the  Bhagavata 
Purana,  x.  sections  43  ff. 

""^  See  the  sequel,  vv.  1585-1588.  The  Vishnu  Purana  (Wilson's  translation,  p.  437, 
first  ed. ;  vol.  iv.  p.  104,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  tells  that  S'is'upala  had  been  in  a  former 
birth  the  Daitya  Hiranyakas'ipu,  who  was  killed  by  Vishnu  in  his  man-lion  incarnation. 
He  afterwards  became  Eavana,  who  was  slain  by  Eama.  In  his  character  as  S'is'u- 
pala he  evinced  an  intense  hatred  towards  Vishnu,  "  a  portion- of  the  supreme  being, 
who  had  descended  to  lighten  the  burthens  of  the  earth,"  (V.  P.  iv.  14, 14 :  S'ii'upal- 
atvena  bhagavato  i'hu-bhSravataranaya  avatirnamsasya  Pundarlkanayanakhyasya 
upari  dvesKanubandhmn  atitaram  chakara  \  )  and  was  in  consequence  slain  by  him ; 


216  SANJATA,  IN  OPPOSITION  TO  DURYODHANA, 

Duryodhanaj  the  eon  of  Dhritarashtra,  and  the  principal  leader  of 
the  Kurus,  is  represented  as  manifesting  a  similar  disbelief  of  Krishna's 
divine  character,  or  at  least  as  maintaining  a  proud  and  contumacious 
resistance  to  his  claims.  In  the  TJdyoga-parvan  (jr.  2527  ff.),  Sanjaya 
unfolds  the  divine  nature  of  Krishna,  "who,"  he  says,  "being  distinct 
in  nature,  and  self-subdued,  is  able,  by  a  thought,  to  subject  to  himself 
the  earth,  the  air,  and  the  heaven"  {pritJimncMntarikshancha  dyam 
cJiaiva  Purushottamah  \  manasaiva  visishtdtmd  nayaty  atma-vaiaih  vah)\ 
He  then  goes  on  to  say,  w.  2529  if. : 

Ehato  vajagat  hritsnam  ekato  vd  Janardcmah  |  gdrato  Jagatah  Icritsndd 
atirihto  Jandrdanah  \  Ihasma  Icurydd  jagad  idam  manasaiva  Jandrdanaff  \ 
na  cha  hritsnam  jagaoh  ohhalctam  hhasmilcartum  Jandrdanam  \  yatah 
satyam  yato  dharmo  yato  hrir  drjavam  yatah  |  tato  hhavati  Oovindo 
yatah  Krishnas  tatojayah  \  prithivlm  ehdntarlkshanoha  divancha  Purush- 
ottamah I  vioheshtayati  hhutdtmd  kridann  iva  Jandrdanah  \  sa  kritvd 
Pdndavdn  satram  lokam  tammohayann  iva  \  adharma-niratdn  miidhdn 
dagdhum,  iehhati  te  sutdn  \  Mla-ohahram  jagaoh-ehakram  yuga-ehakrancha 
Kesavah  \  dtma-yogena  hhagavdn  parivartayate  'niSam  \  kdlasya  cha 
hi  mrityosoha  jangama-sthdvarasya  cha  \  isate  hhagavdn  ekah  satyam  etad 
hravimi  te  \  isann  api  mahdyogi  sarvasya  jagato  Harih  \  karmdny  dra- 
Ihate  kartum  klndiah  iva  vardhanah  \  tena  vanchayate  lokdn  mdydyogena 
Kesavah  |  ye  tarn  eva  prapadyante  tena  muhyanti  mdnavdh  \  Dhrita- 
rdshtrah  uvdclia  \  katham  tvam,  Mddha/vam  vettha  sarva-loka-mahesvaram  \ 
katham  enam  na  veddham  tad  mamdohakshva  Sanjaya  |  Sanjayah  uvdcha  \ 
srinu  rdjan  na  te  vidyd  mama  vidyd  na  hiyate  \  vidyd-hlno  tamo-dhvasto 
ndhhijdndti  Kesavam  |  vidyayd  tdta  jdndmi  triyugam  Madhusudanam  \ 
kartdram  akritafh  devam  bhutdndm  prabhavdpyayam  |  Bhritardshtrah 

but  as  his  thoughts  were  "constantly  engrossed  by  the  supreme  being,"  S'is'upala 
became  united  with  him  after  death ;  for  the  lord  gives  "  to  those  to  whom  he  is 
favourable  whatever  they  desire,"  and  "bestows  a  heavenly  and  exalted  station  even 
upon  those  whom  he  slays  in  his  displeasure."  This  is  further  jexplained  in  the  next 
section,  where  we  are  told  that  Krishna  as  an  object  of  hatred  was  ever  present  to 
S'is'upala's  thoughts,  and  that  he  was  constantly  uttering  his  names,  and  though  this 
was  done  disrespectfully  and  in  malediction,  yet  he  at  last  beheld  the  deity  in  his 
true  character  when  he  was  being  slain  by  him,  and  that  then  all  his  passion  and 
hatred  ceased,  and  his  sins  were  consumed  by  his  divine  adversary,  with  whom  he 
became  united.  The  attempt  of  S'is'upala's  brother,  king  of  the  S'alvas  (whose 
capital  was  Saubha),  to  revenge  his  death,  his  assault  on  Dvaraka,  his  desire  to  slay 
Krishna,  and  the  destruction  which  he  thereby  drew  upon  himself,  are  narrated  in 
the  Vana-parvan,  vv.  615-890. 


ASSERTS  KRISHNA'S  DIVINE  CHAEACTER.  217 

uvdcha  I  Qavalgane  Hra  led  Ihaktir  yd  te  nityafh  Jdnardane  \  yatha,  tvam 
dbhijdndsi  triyugam  Madhusudanam  \  Sanjdyah  uvdcha  \  mayam  na 
seve  Ihadram  te  na  vrithB,  dha/rmam  dohare  \  suddha-hhdvam,  gato  hhaktyd 
idstrad  vedmi  Jandrdanam  \  Bhritardshtrah  uvdcha  \  Buryodhana  Hrishi- 
Ice^am  prapadyasva  Jandrdanam  |  dpto  nah  Sanjayas  tata  ka/ranafh  gaohha 
Kehvam  \  Buryodhanah  uvdcha  |  Bhagavdn  BevaM-putro  hhdm&  ehed 
nihanishyati  \  pravadann  Arj'une  salchyafh  ndham  gachhe  'dya  Ke^avam  \ 
2529.  "On  the  one  side  the  whole  world,  on  the  other  Janardana, Рђћ in 
his  essence  Janardana  exceeds  the  whole  world.  He  could  by  a  thought 
reduce  this  world  to  ashes ;  but  the  whole  world  could  not  reduce  him  to 
ashes.  Since  he  is  truth,  righteousness,  modesty,  rectitude, Рђћ therefore 
is  he  Govinda ;  since  he  is  Krishna,  he  is  therefore  victory.  The  chief 
of  males  (or  spirits),  Janardana,  the  soul  of  beings,  imparts  activity  to 
the  earth,  air,  and  sky,  as  if  in  sport.  He  having  made  for  the  Pandavas 
a  sacrifice,  deluding,  as  it  were,  the  world,  wishes  to  burn  up  thy 
(Dhritarashtra's)  infatuated  and  unrighteous  sons.  The  divine  Kesava 
by  his  own  abstraction  {yoga)  makes  the  circles  of  time,  of  the  world, 
and  of  the  ages  [yugas),  continually  to  revolve.  This  divine  being 
alone  is  lord  of  time,  of  death,  and  of  things  movable  and  im- 
movable,Рђћ this  I  tell  thee  as  a  truth.  Hari,  the  great  contemplator, 
though  the  lord  of  the  whole  world,  undertakes  to  perform  works,  like 
a  poor  peasant  seeking  gain.  He  deceives  the  world  by  this  display  of 
delusion  whereby  the  men  who  seek  him  are  bewildered.  Dhritarashtra 
said :  How  dost  thou  know  Madhava,  the  great  lord  of  the  whole 
world?  and  how  is  it  that  I  do  not  know  him  ? Рђћ tell  me  that,  Sanjaya. 
Sanjaya  answered  :  Hear,  0  king,  thou  hast  not  knowledge  ;  but  to  me 
knowledge  is  not  wanting.  He  who  is  devoid  of  knowledge,  and  sunk 
in  darkness,  does  not  recognize  Kesava.  By  knowledge  I  recognize 
Madhusudana,  who  exists  in  the  three  ages  {yugas),  the  maker,  the 
unmade,  the  god,  the  source  of  beings,  and  the  cause  of  their  de- 
struction. Dhritarashtra  asks :  0  Gavalgani  (Sanjaya),  what  is  this 
devotion  of  thine  to  Janardana,  whereby  thou  recognizest  him  to  exist 
in  the  three  Tugas?  Sanjaya  answers  :  I  do  not  pursue  a  delusion, 
bless  thee,  nor  do  I  vainly  practise  righteousness.  Having  by  devotion 
attained  to  purity,  I  know  Janardana  from  the  scripture  {idstra). 
Dhritarashtra  said :  Duryodhana,  do  thou  seek  Hrishike^a,  Janardana : 
Sanjaya  is  to  us  an  authoritative  teacher :  resort  to  Kesava  as  thy 


218  DTJRTODHANA  IS  KEPEOVED  BY  HIS  PARENTS. 

refuge.  Duryodhana  said :  If  the  divine  son  of  Devaki  should  destroy 
the  worlds,  I  should  not,  declaring  friendship  for  Aijuna,  resort  to-i 
day  to  Ke^ava." 

Duryodhana  is  hereupon  reproved  by  his  father  and  mother  for  his 
pride,  self-will,  and  ambition,  and  is  told  by  the  latter  that  "  when  he 
has  received  his  death-blow  from  Bhimasena,  he  will  remember  the 
words  of  his  father  {nihato  JBhlmasenena  smartasi  vacJianam  pituh)." 
After  some  further  conversation,  Dhritarashtra  asks  to  be  further  in- 
structed about  Krishna,  when  Sanjaya  proceeds  as  follows  (vv.  2530  ff.) : 

Sanjayah  uvacha  \  irutam  me  Vasudevasya  nama-nirvaohanam  iuhham  \ 
yavat  tatrdlMjane  ''ham  aprameyo  hi  Keiavah  \  vasanat  sarva-bhutdndm 
vasutvad  deva-yonitah  \  Vdsudevas  tato  vedyo  vrihatvdd  Vishnur  uchyate  \ 
maunad  dhydnachchayogdchchaviddhi  Bharata Mddhavam  \  sarva-tattva- 
mayatvdch  cha  Madhuhd  Madhusudanah  \  krishir  bhu-vdchahah  kahdo 
naicha  nirvriti-vdchahah  \  Vishnus  tad-lhdva-yogdohcha  Krishna  Ihavati 
Sdtvatah  \  pundariham  pa/ram  dhama  nityam  akshayam  my  ay  am  \  tad- 
bhdvdt  Pundarikdhho  dasyu-trdsdj  Jandrdanah  \  yatah  sattvdd  na 
ehyavate  yaoh  cha  sattvdd  na  hiyate  \  sattvatah  Sdttvatas  tasmdd  drsha- 
hhdd  Vrishabhehshanah  \  najdyate  janitrd  'yam  Ajas  tasmdd  anikajit  \ 
devdnd'fh  sva-prakdiatvdd  damdd  Ddmodaro  vibhuh  \  harshdt  sukhdt  su- 
hhaisva/rydd  Srishlkesatvam  aSnute  |  bdhubhydm  rodasl  bibhrad  mahd- 
bdhur  iti  smritah  \  adho  na  kshiyate  jdlu  yasmdt  tasmdd  adhohshajah  \ 
nardndm  ayanach  chdpi  tato  Ndrayanah  smritah  j  purandt  saicmach 
chdpi  tato  'sau  Purushottamah  \  asatas  cha  satai  ehaiva  sarvasya  pralha- 
vapyaydt  \  sarvasya  cha  sadd  jndndt  Sarvam  etam  prachakshate  |  satye 
pratishthitah  Krishnah  satyam  atra  pratishtkitam  \  satydt  satyancha 
Govindas  tasmdt  Satyo  'pi  ndmatah  \  Vishnur  vikramandd  devo  j'ayandj 
Jishnur  uchyate  |  sdhatatvdd  Anantaioha  Govindo  vedandd  gavdm  \  atatt- 
vam  kurute  tattvam  tena  mohayate prajdh  \  evamvidho  dha/rma-nityo  bhaga- 
vdn  Madhusudanah  \  dgantd  hi  mahdbdhwr  anrisamsydrtham  achyutah  \ 

"  Sanjaya  says :  Thou  hast  heard  from  me  the  auspicious  explanation 
of  Vasudeva's  names,  as  far  as  I  understand  the  subject;  for  Kesava 
is  immeasurable.  He  is  to  be  known  as  Vasudeva  from  his  dwelling 
(vasandt)  in  all  beings,  from  his  issuing  as  a  Vasu  from  a  divine  womb. 
From  his  greatness  (vrihatvdt)  he  is  called  Vishnu.  From  his  silence, 
{maundt)  contemplation,  and  abstraction,  do  thou  know  him  to  be 
Madhava.     From  bis  possessing  the  nature  of  all  priaoiples,  he  is 


SANJATA  EXPLAINS  KRISHNA'S  NAMES.  219 

Madhuhan,  and  Madhusudana.  The  word  krisH  denotes  'earth,'  and 
na  denotes  '  cessation ' ;  Vishnu,  from  containing  the  nature  of  these 
things,  is  Erishna,  the  Sattvata.  Pundarlka  means  the  highest  abode, 
eternal,  unchangeable,  undeoaying  :  from  his  having  that  character  he 
is  Pundarlkaksha.  From  terrifying  the  Dasyus  he  is  Janardana.  In- 
asmuch as  he  does  not  fall  from,  or  fail  in,  existence  {sattva),  therefore, 
from  his  existence,  he  is  Sattvata,  and  from  his  excellence  {arsliahhat) 
he  is  Yrishabhekshana.  As  he  is  not  generated  by  a  father,  he  is 
Aja  (the  unborn),  the  victorious  in  battle.  From  the  self-Ulumination 
of  the  gods,  and  from  self-restraint  {dama),  the  mighty  being  is  Damo- 
dara.  He  obtains  his  character  as  Hrishlkeia  from  joy  {harsha), 
pleasure,  and  the  ease  with  which  he  rules.  Sustaining  the  two 
worlds  with  his  arms,  he  is  called  Mahabahu  {great-armed).  Since  he 
never  sinks  downwards  {adho  na  hsMyate)  he  is  Adhokshaja.  From 
movement  among  men  {narandm^^^  ayanat)  he  is  called  Warayana. 
From  filling  {jpurandt)  and  from  abiding  {sadanat)  he  is  Purushottama. 
Since  he  is  the  source  and  the  destruction  of  everything  {sanasya) 
both  non-existent  and  existent,  and  since  he  always  knows  all,  they 
call  him  Sarva.  Krishna  is  based  on  truth  (satye),  and  truth  is  based 
on  him,  and  Govinda  is  truer  than  truth,  therefore  he  is  also  called  Satya. 
The  god  is  called  Vishnu  from  striding  {vikramanat),  Jishnu  from 
conquering  {jayanaf),  Ananta  from  his  eternity,  and  Govinda  from 
the  possession  of  cattle  ^'*  {vedanad  gavam).  He  makes  the  reality  an 
unreality,  and  so  deludes  creatures.     Of  such  a  character,  constant 

'''  Perhaps  the  true  reading  is  naranam,  "waters,"  as  in  the  text  of  Manu,  cited 
above,  p.  31.    ~ 

''*  Another  explanation  of  this  name  is  given  in  S'anti-parvan,  v.  18228  f. :  Naah- 
idm  eha  dharanlm  purvam  emindam  vai  guhagatam  \  Govindah  iti  tenaham  devair 
vagbhir  ahhisthtutah  \  "  And  since  I  discovered  the  earth  which  had  formerly  been 
destroyed,  and  had  sunk  into  the  abyss,  I  was  therefore  lauded  by  the  gods  with 
praises  as  Govinda."  And  in  the  following  verse,  occurring  in  the  description  of 
the  ocean,  in  the  Adi-parvan,  v.  1216,  the  word  Govinda  is  thus  interpreted :  Gam, 
vindata  bhagavata  Qovindenamitaujasa  \  varaha-rupina  ohantar  mJcshobhita-jalavUam  \ 
"  [That  ocean]  which  was  rendered  turbid  when  its  waters  were  agitated  within  by 
the  divine  Govinda  of  illimitable  power,  who  in  the  form  of  a  boar  found  the  earth 
[beneath  its  surface]."  I  notice  in  the  same  passage  another  verse  (1215),  which 
seems  to  show  that,  at  the  period  when  it  was  written,  the  Hindus  were  acquainted 
with  the  cause  of  the  tides,  or  at  least  with  the  influence  of  the  moon  upon  the 
'ocean :  Chandra-vriddhi-leshaya-vaaad  udvrittormi-samaiulam  |  "  [The  ocean]  tossed 
with  waves  which  rise  in  obedience  to  the  waxing  and  waning  of  the  moon." 


220    DURYODHANA'S  SCEPTICISM:  DISPLAY  OF  KRISHNA'S  GLORY. 

in  righteousness,  is  the  diyine  Madhusudana.      For  the  great-armed 
Achyuta  (or  unfailing  deity)  will  come  for  the  sake  of  innocence." 

The  following  is  another  illustration  of  Duryodhana's  enmity  to 
Krishna,  and  of  his  scepticism  in  regard  to  the  supernatural  character 
of  that  personage,  at  the  same  time  that  it  shows  the  writer's  faith  in 
the  divine  nature  of  his  hero.  It  is  related  in  the  TJdyoga-parvan  that 
Krishna  went  to  the  Kurus,  with  the  intention  of  mediating  hetween 
them  and  the  Pandus.  While  he  was  with  them,  Duryodhana  plotted 
to  confine  him  (v.  4368),  but  Vidura  warns  the  plotter  that  his  attempt 
would  be  vain,  owing  to  the  divine  power  of  Krishna.  On  the  con- 
clusion of  Vidura's  speech,  Krishna  addresses  himself  to  Duryodhana 
(4418  ff.) : 

Vidu/remivam  uMas  tu  Keiavah  ^atru-puga-hd  \  Duryodhanam  Bhar- 
iarashtram  abhyabhashata  vlryavan  \  eko  ^ham  iti  yad  mohad,  manyase 
mam  Suyodhana  \  parihhuya  sudurhuddhe  grahitum  mam  chikirshasi  \ 
ihaiva  Pandmdh  swrve  tathaivandhaka-vrishmyah,  \  ihddityaioha  Sudrds 
cha  Vastwas  cha  saharshibhih  \  evam  uktvd  j'ahdsoohchaih  Keiavah  para- 
vira-hd  I  tasya  samsmayatah  l^aurer  vidyud-rupdh  mahdtmanah  \  angush- 
tha-mdtrds  tridaidh  mumuchuh  pdvakdrehishdh  \  asya  Brahmd  laldta-stho 
Rudro  vahshasi  chdbhavat  |  loha-pdldh  bhujeshv  dsann  Agnir  dsydd  cyd- 
yata  \  Addtydi  ohaiva  SddhydS  cha  Vasavo  'thdhi?idv  api  \  Marutai  cha 
sahendrena  Visve  devdi  tathaiva  cha  |  babhuvus  chaika^^'-rupani  Tahha- 
Qandharva-Rahshasdm  \  prddwrdstafh.  tathd  dorbhydm  SanJcarshana- 
Bhananjayau  \  dahshine  Hhdrjuno  dhamoi  hall  Rdmak  cha  savyatah  \ 
Bhimo  Yudhuhthirai  chaiva  Madrl-putrau  cha  prishthatah  \  Andhakdli 
Vrishnayai  chaiva  Pradyumna-pramukhds  tatah  \  agre  babhuvuh  Krish- 
nasya  samudyata-mahdyu^hah  |  iankha-chakra-gadd-saMi-kdrnga-ldngala- 
nandakdh  \  adrisyantodyatdny  eva  sarva-praharandni  cha  \  ndnd-bdhushu 
Krishnasya  dipyamdndni  sarmiah  |  ityddi. 

"Being  thus  addressed,  the  heroic  Kesava,  slayer  of  hostile  bands, 
thus  addressed  Duryodhana,  son  of  Dhritarashtra :  '  Since,  Suyodhana, 
thou,  in  thy  delusion,  regardest  me  as  if  I  were  alone,  and,  0  fool, 
seekest  to  overcome  and  confine  me,  [know  that]  here  are  aU  the 
Pandavas,  the  Andhakae,  and  the  Vrishnis,  as  well  as  the  Adityas, 
Eudras,  and  Vasus,  together  with  the  rishis.'  Having  thus  spoken, 
Kesava,  slayer  of  hostile  heroes,  laughed  aloud.  As  the  mighty  de-. 
'"  Quere,  may  not  chaiva  be  the  proper  reading  ? 


DUETODHANA  AND  OTHERS  CLAIM  EQUALITY  "WITH  KRISHNA.  221 

soendant  of  S'ura  [Krishna]  smiled,  the  gods,  -wearing  the  appearance 
of  lightning,  of  the  size  of  a  thumb,  and  luminous  as  fire,  issued  forth 
from  him.  Brahma  occupied  his  forehead,  Rudra  was  produced  on 
his  chest,  the  guardians  of  the  world  appeared  on  his  arms,  and  Agni, 
sprang  from  his  mouth.  The  Adityas,  too,  and  the  Sadhyas,  Vasus, 
Aivins,  Maruts,  and  all  the  gods  along  with  Indra  were  produced,  and 
also  the  forms  of  the  Takshas,  Gandharvas,  and  Eakshasas.  Sankarshana 
and  Dhananjaya  also  were  manifested  from  his  arms,  Arjuna  armed 
with  a  bow  from  his  right,  and  Eama  holding  a  plough  from  his  left, 
Tudhishthira  and  Bhima,  the  sons  of  Madrl,  from  his  back.  Next 
Andhakas  and  Vrishnis,  headed  by  Pradyumna,  arose  on  his  front, 
with  their  weapons  ready.  A  shell,  discus,  club,  spear,  bow,  plough, 
and  sword,  were  seen  prepared,  and  all  weapons,  gleaming  in  every 
form  on  the  different  arms  of  Krishna." 

In  the  next  passage,  taken  from  the  Karna-parvan  also,  Duryodhana, 
and  other  warriors  on  his  side,  put  themselves  on  the  same  level  as 
Krishna  (except  in  one  place,  vv.  1625  if.).  It  is  there  related 
(vv.  1265  ff.)  that  Karna  promised  to  Duryodhana  to  encounter  and 
slay  Arjuna,  or  be  slain  by  him.  Karna  says,  however,  that  in  some 
respects  he  is  inferior  to  Arjuna;  as,  for  instance,  in  not  having  such 
a  charioteer  as  Arjuna  had  in  Govinda  (Krishna)  (v.  1302 :  SaratMs 
tasya  Govindo  mama  tddrin  na  vidyate) ;  while  in  other  respects 
he  regards  himself  as  having  the  advantage  (v.  1304).  As,  then, 
Krishna,  creator  of  the  world,  preserves  the  car  of  Arjuna  {Krishms 
cha  srashta  jagato  ratham  tam  ahhirakshaU^^^),  if,  in  like  manner,  S'alya, 
king  of  the  Madras,  the  ornament  of  the  battle-field,  who  is  equal 
to  S'auri  (Krishna)  and,  as  well  as  Dasarha,  (Krishna)  who  knows 
a  horse's  heart,  is  skilled  in  horses,  wiU  act  as  his  charioteer,  Karna 
thinks  the  victory  of  Duryodhana's  side  will  be  certain  (v.  1308: 
Ayam  tu  sadrUah  S'aii/reh  S'alyah  samiti-iolhanah  \  sarathyam  yadi  me 
hwryad  dhruvas  te  vijayo  hhavet  |  .  .  .  .  1311  :  Evam  abhyadhihah 
Parthat  hhcmishyami  gUnair  dham  \  S'alyo  'py  dbhyadhilcah  Krishnad 
Arjunad  api  ohapy  aham  \  yatha  ' ha-hridayam  veda  Bakarhah  para- 

-'^  If  the  Рќаwords  srashta  jagatah,  "creator  of  the  world,"  are  not  an  interpolation, 
it  is  not  easy  to  perceive  how  Karna  could  have  regarded  Krishna  as  his  equal,  as  he 
would  never  have  thought  of  calling  S'alya,  or  any  other  of  his  brother  warriors,  the 
creator  of  the  world. 


222      S'ALYA  OFFENDED,  BXTT  APPEASED  BY  DURYODHANA. 

vira-hd  I  tathd  S'alyo  'pi  janlte  haya-j'^dnaih  mahdrathaHi  |)  Duryo- 
dhana  then  goes  to  S'alya,  and  asks  him  to  act  as  charioteer  to  Karna, 
saying  that  he  (S'alya)  was  equal  to  Krishna,  that  there  was  no  other 
person  who  could  drive  Karna  but  himself ;  and  that  Brahma  had 
fulfilled  the  same  office  to  Mahadeva  (v.  1328  f. :  Sdrathyaih  ratMndm 
ireshtha  pranayat  hartum  arhasi  \  tvayi  yantari  Eddheyo  vidvisJio  me 
vijeshyate  \  aihlshunaffi  hi  Karnasya  grahita  'nyo  na  vidyate  \  rite  hi 
tvdm  mahdlhaga  Vdsuieva-samam  yvdhi  \  sa  pdhi  sarvathd  Kwrmm 
yathd  Brahma  Maheharam  \ ).  S'alya,  however,  is  very  much  offended 
(v.  1354  f.)  that  a  person  of  his  dignity  should  be  asked  to  undertake 
the  office  of  charioteer,  and  boasts  that  he  is  superior  to  Karna,  and 
could  alone  destroy  their  enemies.  He  points  to  his  thick  arms,  which 
would  smite  like  a  thunderbolt,  and  asserts  that  he  could  by  his  own 
strength  cleave  asunder  the  earth,  scatter  the  mountains,  and  dry  up 
the  seas  (v.  1361 :  Paiya plnau  mama  hhujau  vajra-samhananopamau  \  .  . 
1363  :  Bdrayeyam  mahim  kriUnam  vilcireyam  chaparvatdn  \  S'oshayeyam 
mmud/rdmi  eha  tejasa  svena  parthiva  |).  He  will  not  brook  to  under- 
take the  inferior  office  of  driving  a  person  who  is  his  own  inferior"' 
(v.  1365  :  Kaamdd  yunalcshi  sarathye  mchasyadhirathe  rane  |  na  mam 
adhuri  rdjendra  niyoktufh,  tvam  iharhasi  \  na  hi  papiyasaJi  kreydn  hhutvd 
preshyatvam  utsahe  |).  He  threatens,  in  consequence  of  the  insult  thus 
offered  to  him,  to  go  home  (v.  1375);  and  accordingly  rises  and  goes, 
but  is  followed  by  Duryodhana,  who  endeavours  to  soothe  him  by 
saying  that  he  did  not  regard  Karna  as  superior  to  him  (v.  1379  :  Na 
Kmrno  'Ihyadikas  tvattah),  but  considered  Karna  to  be  superior  to 
Arjuna ;  while  the  world  regarded  him  (S'alya)  as  superior  to  Krishna, 
whom  he  excelled  in  strength,  as  weU.  as  in  knowledge  of  horses  and 
their  dispositions,  (v.  1384:  Manye  chdhhyadhikam  S'alya  gunaih  Kar- 
nam  Dhananjayat  \  Ihavantam  Vamdevdch  eha  loho  'yam  iti  manyate  I 
Ka/rno  hy  abhyadhihah  Pdrthdd  astrair  eva  nararshahha  \  bhavdn  abhya- 
dhikah  Krishndd  ahia-jndne  hale  tathd  |  yathd  ' kvahridayam  veda  Vdsit- 
devo  mahdmandh  \  dvigunaffi,  tvam  tathd  vetsi  Madrardjehardtmaja  |). 
S'alya  is  flattered  by  his  being  reckoned  superior  to  Krishna,  and  agrees 
to  act  as  charioteer  to  Karna,  vv.  1387  ff. :   Yad  mdm  hravlshi  Gdndhdre 

'"  He  regarded  Karna  as  what  he  was  generally  supposed  to  be,  a  Suta,  or 
Рќа  charioteer,  by  caste  {suta-putrasya,  r.  1374). 


WAR  BETWEEN  THE  GODS  AND  ASUEAS.  223 

madht/e  sainyasya  Kawa/oa  \  viiisTitarh  DevaMputrat  pritimdn  asmy  aham 
Рќа  tvayi  I  esha  sarathyam  atishthe  Eadheyasya  yaiasvinah  \  yudhyatah 
Рђб  Pandavagryena  yatha  tvam  vira  manyase  \  samayaS  eha  hi  me  vira 
kaschid  Vaikartanam  prati  |  utsrijeyam  yathn-iraddham  aham  vacho  'aya 
sannidhau  |  Sanj'ayah  n/vdcha  \  tatheti  rajan  putras  te  saha  Karnena 
Bharata  \  dbravid  Madra-rajasya  matam  Bhwrata-sattama  \  "I  am 
pleased  with  thee,  Kaurava,  since  in  the  midst  of  the  army  thou 
deolarest  me  to  be  superior  to  the  son  of  Devaki.  I  undertake  to  be 
charioteer  to  the  renowned  Karna  when  he  fights  with  the  chief  of  the 
Pandavas,  as  thou,  hero,  thinkest  [I  ought  to  do].  And  now  that  I 
have  entered  into  a  certain  agreement  with  Karna,  let  me  candidly 
excuse  to  him  the  words  I  have  used."  Sanjaya  proceeded:  "Thy  son 
{i.e.  Duryodhana)  having  assented,  declared  to  Karna  the  resolution  of 
the  king  of  the  Madras  (S'alya)." 

Though  he  had  thus  gained  his  point,  by  persuading  S'alya  to  act  as 
charioteer  to  Karna,  Duryodhana  is  nevertheless  represented  as  pro- 
ceeding, in  the  next  three  sections,  the  33rd-35th,  vv.  1391  ff., 
(which,  for  reasons  to  be  afterwards  assigned,  I  regard  as  probably 
interpolated,)  to  repeat  to  S'alya  an  ancient  story,  telling  how 
Brahma  had  formerly  done  duty  as  charioteer  to  Mahadeva  in  a  war 
between  the  gods  and  Asuras.  In  this  war  the  gods,  it  is  related, 
were  at  first  the  victors  (1394).  The  three  sons  of  the  Asura  Taraka 
thereupon  performed  severe  austerities,  which  induced  Brahma  to 
grant  them  a  boon  (1397).  They  asked  that  they  might  become  in- 
destructible by  any  being  whatever,  which,  however,  Brahma  declined 
to  grant,  as  immortality,  he  said,  was  not  an  universal  attribute 
(1399).  They  then  asked  that  they  should  occupy  three  castles,  and 
from  thence  move  about  the  earth  at  will,  and  that  after  a  thousand 
years  these  three  castles  should  become  united,  and  that  they  them- 
selves should  only  be  destructible  by  the  deity  who  should  be  able  to 
overthrow  the  castles  with  a  single  arrow  (1402  S. :  Vayam  purdni 
triny  eva  saihdsthaya  mahlm  imam  \  vicha/rishyamo  lake  'smin  .... 
tato  varsha-sahasre  tu  sameshyamah  parasparam  |  ekilhdvam  gamiah- 
yanti  purdny  etani  ehdnagha  \  samagatani  chaitani  yo  hanydd  hhagavaHis 
tadd  I  eheshund  deva-varah  sa  no  mrityur  Ihavishyati  | ).  Brahma  granted 
this  boon,  and  the  Asura  Maya  built  them  three  castles,  one  of  gold,  in 
heaven ;  a  second  of  silver,  in  the  air ;  and  a  third  of  black  iron,  on 


224  THE  GODS  EESOET  TO  MAHADEVA. 

earth  ^'┬░  (1406  ff.),  which  the  three  Asura  kings  above  mentioned 
severally  occupied,  and  where  innumerable  hosts  of  formidable  demons 
were  collected.  Maya,  by  his  magical  power,  gave  them  everything  that 
any  of  them  wished  (1415) :  and  Hari,  the  son  of  Tarakaksha,  obtained 
as  a  boon  from  Brahma  that  there  should  be  a  pond  within  their  castle, 
into  which,  when  any  Asuras  slain  in  battle  were  thrown,  they  should  be 
resuscitated  and  become  stronger  than  ever  (1418  ff.).  Armed  with 
all  these  powers,  the  Asuras  harassed  the  worlds,  putting  to  flight  the 
celestial  hosts,  and  destroying  the  gardens  of  the  gods,  and  the  hermit- 
ages of  the  rishis  (1421  ff.).  Indra  attacked  the  castles  of  the  Asuras 
with  his  thunderbolts,  hut  without  effect  (1427).  He  then  went  with 
the  other  gods  to  consult  Brahma  about  the  means  of  overthrowing 
the  titans  (1429  ff.).  Brahma  replied  that  the  castles  could  only  be 
destroyed  by  a  single  arrow,  and  that  this  could  only  be  effected  by 
Mahadgva  (1434),  to  whom  they  should  apply.  The  deities,  then, 
headed  by  Brahma  himself,  went  to  supplicate  Mahadeva,  who  gives 
security  amid  alarms,  the  soul  of  all  things,  by  whom  the  universe  is 
pervaded,  who,  through  particular  austerities,  knows  the  "yoga"  and  the 
"sankhya"  of  himself,  (or  of  spirit,)  and  whose  spirit  is  always  in 
subjection, Рђћ (they  went  to  supplicate  him)  practising  rites  of  austerity, 
repeating  the  eternal  Veda,  and  uttering  awful  or  fierce  hymns,  (1437  ff.: 
Tapo-niyamam  asthaya  grinanto  hrahma  SdSvatam  |  .  .  .  .  tiishtuvur 
vaglhir  ugrabhir  Ihayeshv  abhaya'-dam  nripa  \  sandimanam  maJidtmanam 
yendptam  sarvam  dtmand  \  tapo-mseshair  vividhair  yogam  yo  veda 
chatmanah  \  yah  sanlchyam  atmano  vetti  yasya  chdtmd  vase  sada  |). 
They  beheld  Mahadeva,  to  whom  a  variety  of  other  honorific  epithets 
'are  applied,  such  as  "the  essence  of  all  beings,  the  unborn,  the  lord 
of  the  world"  (1442:  sarva-lhutamayam  drishtva  tarn  ajam  jagatah 
patim\).  Mahadeva  received  them  smiling,  and  invites  them  to  state 
their  wishes  (1444).  They  then  recite  a  number  of  his  epithets 
(1445  ff.),  and  Brahma  replies  on  their  behalf  (1455  ff.)  that  he 
himself,  who  had  obtained  from  Mabadeva  his  rank  of  Prajapati, 
.had  bestowed  a  boon  on  the  Danavas,  that  they  had  in  consequence 
transgressed  all  bounds,  and  that  now  there  was  no  one  but  Maha- 
deva who  could  destroy  them, Рђћ which  he  was  therefore  implored 
to  do.  Mahadeva  answers  (1459)  that  he  himself  alone  could  not 
2'┬Ф  See  above  p.  203  ;  and  the  2nd  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  378  ff. 


MAHADEVA'S  EQtTIPMENT  FOR  BATTLE.  225 

destroy  them,  as  they  were  strong,  but  that,  with  the  aid  of  half  his 
strength,  they  themselves  would  be  able  to  conquer  their  enemies. 
They  answered  that  they  could  not  sustain  half  of  his  strength  (vibh- 
artum  tava  tej'o  'rdham  na  Mshyamah),  but  proposed  that  he  should 
undertake  the  work,  aided  by  half  of  their  strength.  To  this  Mahadeva 
consented,  and  became  stronger  than  aU  the  gods,  and  was  thenceforward 
called  Mahadeva,  or  "the  great  god,"  (ardham  aiaya  saneshaih  tejma 
'hhyadhilco  'hhavat  \  sa  tu  devo  lahnasit  sarvebhyo  halavatta/rah  \  Mahadevah 
iti  hhyatas  tatah  prahhriti  S'anharah),  Mahadeva  then  (1468)  desired 
the  gods  to  provide  him  with  a  bow  and  arrows,  and  a  chariot.  The 
gods  promised  to  provide  a  chariot  which  should  be  composed  of  all  the 
forms  of  the  universe  (1469  :  murtlh  sarvah  samadhdya  trailokyMya 
tatas  tatah  \  ratham  te  hal^ayishydmah).  The  composition  of  the  car, 
formed  by  Visvakarman  and  the  gods,  is  then  described  at  great  length 
(w.  1471-1492).  Vishnu,  Soma,  and  Agni  became  different  parts  of 
Mahadeva's  bow  and  arrow ;  the  earth  became  his  chariot,  the  mountain 
Mandara  its  axle ;  and  the  great  river,  the  regions,  the  constellations, 
the  Krita  age,  the  serpent  Vasuki,  the  Himalaya  and  Vindhya  mountains, 
plants,  the  sun  and  moon,  day  Jlnd  night,  various  goddesses,  duty, 
truth,  the  vashatkara,  the  gayatrl,  etc.,  formed  portions  of  the  car, 
or  of  its  appurtenances.  Mahadeva's  weapons  and  equipments  are 
then  specified  (1495*ff.).  At  verse  1503  it  is  repeated  that  "Vishnu, 
Agni,  and  Soma  formed  his  arrow;  for  all  the  world,"  it  is  added,  "is 
formed  of  Agni  and  Soma,  and  is  said  to  be  composed  of  Vishnu,  and 
Vishnu  is  the  soul  of  Mahadeva  of  boundless  power.^''  Hence  they 
could  not  abide  the  bow,  or  the  contact  of  the  bowstring  of  Hara. 
In  that  arrow  the  terrible  god,  dark-blue,  and  dusky  in  hue,  clad  in  an 
antelope's  skin,  hurled  forth  the  fire  of  wrath,  of  fierce  fury,  intolerable, 

and  sprung  from  the  rage  of  Bhrigu  and  Angiras 1507.  He  is 

the  constant  preserver  of  virtuous,  and  destroyer  of  wicked,  men.  The 
divine  Sthanu  (Mahadeva)  shines  forth  distinguished  by  these  inherent 
qualities,  which  are  destructive,  fearful  in  power,  fearful  in  form, 
and  rapid  as  thought.  This  whole  universe,  movable  and  immovable, 
existing  contained  in  his  members,  shone  forth,  wonderful  to  behold." 
{Ishus  ehdpy  alhavad  Vishnttr  Jbalanah  Somah  eva  elta  \  Agm-Somam, 
jagat  hritsnam  Vaishnavam  chochyate  jagat  \  Vishnui  ehdtmd  hhaga/vato 
'"  Can  these  words  be  a  Yaishnava  addition  to  the  passage  p 

VOL.   IV.  15 


226       MAHADEVA  DESTROYS  THE  CASTLE  OF  THE  ASTJEAS. 

Bhavasyamita-tejasah  \  tasmad  dhanu/r  jyd-samspa/riaSi,  na  vishehur 
Sarasya  te  \  tasmin  &mre  tigma-manyum  mumochasahyam  livarah  \ 
Bhngv-Anfftro-manyu-lhavam  hrodhagnim  ati-dussaham  \  sa  nila-lohito 
dhumrah,  hrittivasah  Ihayankarah  |  .  .  .  .  1607 :  Nityam  trata  cha 
hantd  cha  dharmadharmairitan  naran  I  pramdthihhir  Ihima-lalair  Ihima-, 
rupair  manojavaih  \  vibhdti  hhagavan  Sthdnus  taw  evStma-gunair  vritah  \ 
tasydngdni  samdSritya  sthitam  viham  idam  jagat  |  jangamajangamaih 
rajcm  SuSuhhe  'dbhuta-dar^anam  \  ) 

Taking  the  arrow  produced  from  Soma,  Vishnu,  and  Agni,  Mahadeva 
mounted  the  car  which  had  been  made  for  him  (1510  if.).  He  then, 
smilingly  asked  (1515)  who  was  to  be  his  charioteer.  The  gods 
answered  that  any  one  whom  he  should  appoint  would  undertake  that 
office.  He  then  said  that  the  god  who  was  greater  than  he  {mattah 
SreshtJiataro  M  yah)  should  be  made  his  charioteer.  The  gods  next 
went  to  Brahma,  and  asked  him  to  appoint  one  (1520),  expressing  an 
opinion  that  he  himself  was  the  only  person  who  was  fit  for  the 
office  (1526).  Brahma  consented  (1530  ff.).  Mahadeva  is  again  re- 
presented as  mounting  the  car,  with  the  arrow  produced  from  Vishnu, 
Soma,  and  Agni  in  his  hand  (1535).  He  then  sets  out,'^┬░  and  arrives 
at  the  triple  castle  of  the  Asuras  (1551),  when  some  of  the  Asuras  are 
destroyed  by  the  roaring  of  his  buU  (1553),  and  others  come  forth  to 
battle.  Mahadeva  becomes  insensate  with  rage.  The  three  worlds 
tremble.  The  chariot  begins  to  sink  from  the  agitation  of  Soma, 
Agni,  and  Vishnu  in  the  arrow,  when  it  is  being  fitted  on  the  string, 
and  from  the  movement  of  Brahma  and  Mahadeva.  Vishnu  then 
issues  from  a  portion  of  the  arrow  (1556),  takes  the  form  of  a  bull, 
and  raises  up  the  chariot.  Mahadeva  again  fits  his  arrow  on  the  string 
(1562),  and  discharges  it  against  the  triple  castle  (1567),  which  falls  to 
the  ground,  -while  the  Asuras  are  burnt  up  and  thrown  by  Mahadeva 
1  into  the  Western  ocean.  The  gods  praise  Mahadeva  and  depart  (1572). 
Duryodhana  now  (1575  ff.)  makes  his  application  of  this  legend  by 
exhorting  S'alya  to  follow  Brahma's  example,  and  act  as  charioteer  to 

220  In  TY.  1545  ff.  it  is  said  that  the  rishis  praised  Mahadeva,  and  increased  his 
strength  {rishayaa  tatra  devesaih  stimanto  bahulhih  stavaih  \  tejas  ehasmai  vardha- 
yanto  rajann  asan  punah  pimah).  This  is  a  pure  Vedic  touch,  the  same  power  of  im- 
parting strength  to  the  gods  by  their  praises  heing  occasionally  asserted  of  the  bards 
in  the  Eig-Teda.  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  91.  In  most  of  the  texts 
there  cited,  however,  it  is  perhaps  only  meant  that  the  gods  were  gratified  by  the 
praises  addressed  to  them.  . 


DTTETODHANA  REQUESTS  S'ALTA  TO  BE  KAENA'S  CHARIOTEEE.  227 

Earna,  S'alya,  he  adds,  is  superior  to  Erishna,  Karna,  and  Arjuna, 
and  as  Karna  resembled  Mahadeva  in  fighting,  so  S'alya  resembled 
Brahma  in  guiding  [a  chariot],  etc.  To  supply  additional  motives  for 
compliance,  he  then  (1581  ff.)  goes  on  to  tell  S'alya  another  story  about 
Para^urama  performing  austerity  to  propitiate  Mahadeva  and  obtain  <^ 
celestial  arms.  Mahadeva  appears  to  him,  and  tells  him  he  shall  obtain 
arms  when  he  has  qualified  himself  by  purification  to  receive  them. 
Para^urama  renews  his  austerities  and  religious  ceremonies  (1591),  and 
is  at  length  appointed  by  Mahadeva  to  slay  the  Daityas  who  had  been 
harassing  the  gods  (1599).  He  successfully  accomplishes  this  task 
(1806),  and  receives  celestial  arms  from  Mahadeva;  Parasurama  had, 
as  Duryodhana ,  goes  on  to  say,  taught  the  divine  science  of  archery  to 
Karna  (1613),  which  proves  that  Karna  is  free  from  sin;  and  Karna 
is  not,  as  Duryodhana  believes,  a  Suta  or  .charioteer  by  birth,  but  a  son 
of  one  of  the  gods,  bom  in  a. Kshatriya  family.  For  how  could  a  doe 
gite  birth  to  a  tiger  resembling  the  sun  (Jcatham  aiitya-mdriiam  mrigi 
vyaghram  janis}iyati\  1617)?  Duryodhana  then  recurs  to  the  legend  of 
Brahma  becoming  Mahadeva's  charioteer,  and  renews  his  exhortation 
to  S'alya  to  perform  the  same  office  to  Karna.  S'alya  appears  now  to 
waver  in  his  determination,  formerly  expressed,  to  comply  with  Dur- 
yodhana's  request,  as  he  replies  (1625)  that  he  himself  had  often  heard 
this  story  before ;  and  that  Krishna  also  had  no  doubt  heard  of  it,  as 
he  knows  the  future  and  the  past,  and  that  he  had  for  that  reason 
consented  to  be  the ,  charioteer  of  Arjuna.  And,  S'alya  adds,  if  Karna 
should  slay  Arjuna,  Krishna  would  himself  fight,  and  armed  with 
the  shell,  discus,  and  club,  burn  up  the  whole  of  Duryodhana's 
army,  and  no  prince  would  be  able  to  stand  before  him  among  his 
opponents  when  he  was  incensed,  (v,  1629  ff. :  Yadi  hanyaeh  cha 
Kaunteyafn  Suta-putrah  kathancham  \  drishtvd  Pdriham  hi  nihatam 
svayam  yotsyati  Kekavah  I  ianhha-ohaJcra-gadd-panir  dhakshyate  tava 
vdhinim  \  na  cMpi  tasya  hruddhasya  Vdrshneyasya  mahatmanah  \  sthd- 
syate  pratyanikeshu  kaSchid  atra  nripas  tava).  Duryodhana  in  reply 
expatiates  on  the  eminent  prowess  of  Karna,  and  of  S'alya  himself; 
(1643)  Toam  Salya-bhutah  iatrundm  avishahjah  pardhrame  \  tatas  tvam 
uohyase  rdjan  S'alyah  ity  ari-audana  |  tava  bdhu-balamprdpya  na  kkuh 
sarva-Sdivatdh  ]  tava  hdhu-haldd  rdjan  hintu  Krishna  halddhilcah  \ 
yathd  hi  Krishnena  balam  dhdryam  vai  Phdlgime  hate  \  tatha  Karnd- 


228     S'ALYA  CONSENTS  TO  ACT  AS  CHAEIOTEEE  TO  KAENA. 

tyayilhave  tvayd  dharyam  mahad  halam  |  Mmarthaih  samare  sainyam 
Fasudevo  nyavarayet  (sic)  |  kima/rtham  cha  hhavan  sainyafii  na  haniahyati 
Marisha  \  "  Thou  art  a  spear  {Mya)  to  [pierce]  thine  enemies,  irre- 
sistible in  valour :  hence,  0  king,  destroyer  of  thy  foes,  thou  art  called 
S'alya."^'  FeeHng  the  power  of  thy  arm,  all  the  Satvatas  could  not 
[resist].  But  [it  is  said  that]  Erishna  is  superior  in  force  to  the 
strength  of  thy  arm.  Just  as  great  strength  is  to  be  exhibited  by 
Krishna,  if  Arjuna  were  killed ;  so  is  great  strength  to  be  put  forth  by 
thee,  if  Karna  were  slain.  Why  should  Krishna  withstand  [our]  army? 
and  why  shouldst  not  thou  slay  the  [enemy's]  host?"  S'alya  then 
answers  (1648  ff.)  in  nearly  the  same  words''''^  which  had  formerly 
been  assigned  to  him  in  vv.  1387-9 :  "I  am  pleased  with  thee,  bestower 
of  honour,  since  before  the  army  thou  declarest  me  to  be  superior  to 
the  son  of  Devakl.  I  undertake  to  be  charioteer  to  the  renowned 
Karna,"  etc.  This  repetition  of  the  same  speech  of  S'alya  at  the  close 
of  the  episode  regarding  Mahadeva's  conquest  of  the  Asuras  with 
Brahma  for  his  charioteer,  and  Parasurama's  acquisition  of  celestial 
weapons,  renders  it  probable,  as  I  have  already  said,  that  this  episode 
has  been  subsequently  interpolated.  As  S'alya  had  already  consented, 
in  vv.  1387  ff.,  to  do  duty  as  Karna's  charioteer,  it  was  quite  unneces- 
sary to  detail  at  great  length  the  legend  of  Brahma  and  Mahadeva, 
which  had  been  already  briefly  alluded  to  in  verse  1330,  and  which  is 
merely  followed  by  a  renewed  expression  of  S'alya's  willingness  to 
comply  with  the  request  of  Karna  and  Duryodhana. 

IV.  In  various  parts  of  the  Mahabharata  Krishna  and  Arjuna  are 
singularly  represented  as  having  formerly  existed  in  the  persons  of  two 
rishis,  Narayana  and  Ifara,^^'  who  always  lived  and  acted  together.     A 

"1  In  verse  1381  the  same  thing  had  been  said  in  nearly  the  same  words :  S'alya- 
hhutas  iu  iatrunam  yasmat  tmm  yudhi  manada  \  tasmat  S'alyo  hi  te  nama  kathyate 
prilhii>T-taU  \  The  repetition  of  this  idea  is  an  additional  argument  in  proof  of  the 
probable  interpolation  of  the  passage  between  t.  1389  and  v.  1648. 

223  The  only  difiference  of  reading  iu  the  two  passages  is,  that  in  the  first  line 
of  the  later  passage  the  words  agre  aainyasya  manada,  "  before  the  army,  conferrer 
of  honour,"  are  substituted  for  inadhye  sainyasya  Kaurava,  "in  the  midst  of  the 
army,  0  Kaurava." 

"3  In  the  Vamana-purana,  sect.  6,  quoted  in  Prof.  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  4Si,  it 
is  stated  that  Dharma  with  a  divine  body  was  the  heart-born  son  of  Brahma,  that 
his  (Dharma's)  wife  was  Ahimsa,  and  that  she  bore  to  him  Hari  and  Krishna,  and 
Nara  and  Narayana,  of  whom  the  two  former  were  devoted  to  the  practice  of  the  Toga 


INTIMATE  CONNEXION  OF  THE  EISHIS  KARA  AND  NAEAYANA.  229 

similar  close  union  exists  between  the  two  heroes  in  the  various  transac- 
tions narrated  in  the  great  epic.  Their  earlier  connexion  will  appear 
from  the  following  passages,"*  in  which,  however,  these  two  rishis  are 
always  represented  as  possessed  of  supernatural  or  divine  powers. 

It  is  related  in  the  Vana-parvan  (vv.  461  ff.)  that  Erishna,  having 
gone  with  other  friends  of  the  Pandus  to  visit  them  after  they  had 
retired  into  the  forest,  expressed  great  indignation  at  the  way  in  which 
they  had  been  treated  by  Duryodhana  and  his  party.  Arjuna  (one  of 
the  Pandus),  with  the  view  of  pacifying  Krishna,  recounts  (vv.  471  ff.) 
his  marvellous  deeds  in  former  births,  his  austerities,,  his  slaughter  of 
the  Daityas  and  Danavas  (478),  his  various  forms  (480),  his  three 
strides  as  the  son  of  Aditi  (484),'^'  and  his  destruction  of  various 
enemies  (487  ff.) ;  and  then  proceeds  thus  (vv.  496  ff.) : 

Yugante  sarva-hhutani  sankshipya  Madhusudana  \  atmanawdtmasat 
Icritva  jagad  dsih  pwranta^a  \  yugadau  tava  Varshneya  nahhi-padmad 
ajdyata  \  Brahma  chardchara-gwur  ymyedam  sahalam  jagat  \  tarn  Tian- 
tum  udyatau  ghorau  Bdnmau  Madhu-kaitabhau  |  tayor  vyoMhramam 
drishtm  hruddhasya  bhavato  Hareh  |  laldtdj  jdtavdn  S'amlhuh  iula- 
pdnis  trilochanah  \  ittha'ih  tdv  api  deveioM  tvaoh-chharira-samudhhavau  \ 
tvan-niyoga-iarav  etdv  iti  me  Narado  ^hramt  \  tathd  Ndrdyam  pur  a 
hratubhir  hhuri-daksMnaih  \  ishtavdnis  tvam'mahdsatr am  Krishna  Chait- 
rarathe  vane  \  naivam  purve  ndpare  vd  ka/rishyanti  kritdm  vd  \  ydni 
karmdni  deva  tvam  bdlah  eva  mahdhalah  \  kritavdn  Pundarvkdksha  Bala- 
deva-sahdymdnlKaildsa-bhavane  chdpi  brdhmanair  nyavasah  saha\  Vaisam- 
pdyanah  uvdcha  \  evam  uktvd  mahdtmdnam  dtma  Krishnasya  Pdndavah  \ 
tushnim  dsU  tatah  Pdrtham  ity  uvdcha  Jandrdanah  |  mamaiva  tvam 
t'avavDdham  ye  madiyds  tavaiva  te  |  yas  tvdm  dveshti  sa  mdm  dveshti  yas 
tvam  anu  sa  mdm  anu  \  Nwras  tvam  asi  durdharsha  Harir  Ndrdyam  hy 
aham  \  kale  lokam  imam  prdptau  Na/ra-Ndrdyandv  rishi  \  ananyah 
Pdrtha  mattas  tvam  imattai  ohdJiam  tathaiva  cha  \  ndvayor  anta/ram  iah- 
yam  veditum  Bharatarshabha  \ 

"  '  At  the  end  of  the  mundane  period  {yvga),  thou,  0  Madhusudana, 

{Hridbhavo  Brahmano  yo  'sau  Dharmo  divymapuh  sada  |  tast/a  himrya  tv  Ahiihsa  iu 
tasyam  ajanayat  sutau  \  Harim  Krishncm  oho,  devarshe  Nara-Narayanau  tatha  \ 
yogahhyaaa-ratau  nityam  Mari-Kriahnau  babhuvatuh). 

"'  See.  also  the  extract  from  the  Drona-parvan,  translate!  ahove,  p;  185. 

"5  See  above,  p.  136.  , 


230  INTIMATE  CONNEXION  OP  THE  RISSIS  NARA  AND  NARAYANA. 

vexer  of  thy  foes,  having  caused  alL  created  things  to  collapse,  arid  by 
thyself  made  them  subject  to  thyself,  wast  the  'world.  At  the  com- 
mencement of  the  yuga,  0  Tarshneya  (Krishna),  Brahma,  the  chief 
of  things  movable  and  immovable,  whose  [is]  aU  this  world,  sprang 
from  the  lotus  issuing  from  thy  navel.  Two  horrible  Danavas,  Madhu 
and  Kaitabha,  were  ready  to  slay  him.  Prom  the  forehead  of  Hari, 
who  became  incensed  when  he  saw  their  transgression,  was  produced 
S'ambhu  (Mahadeva),  wielding  the  trident,  and  three-eyed.  Thus  even 
those  two  lords  of  the  gods  (Brahmt  and  Mahadeva)  are  sprung  from  thy 
(Krishna's)  body,  and  they  execute  thy  commands, Рђћ this  ITarada  de- 
clared to  me.  So,  too,  0  Krishna,  Narayana,  thou  didst  formerly 
celebrate  a  great  sacrifice  in  the  Chaitraratha  forest,  with  oblations  and 
many  gifts.  The  ancients  [have]  not  [done],  nor  shall  those  who  are 
to  come  do,  the  deeds  which  thou  didst,  Pundarlkaksha,  even  when  a 
child,  mighty  in  power,  accompanied  by  Baladeva.  And  thou  didst 
dwell  with  the  Brahmans  in  the  abode  of  Kailasa.'  Having  thus 
addressed  that  great  being,  the  Pandava  (Arjuna,  who  was)  the  soul  of 
Krishna,  became  silent.  Then  Janardana  (Krishna)  thus  addressed  the 
son  of  Pritha :  'Thou  art  mine,  arid  I  am  thine;"^  those  who  are  mine 
are  thine  also.  He  who  hates  thee  hates  me;  he  who  loves  {lit.  follows, 
or  favours)  thee  loves  me.  Thou,  invincible  :hero,  art  Nara,  and  I  am 
Hari  Narayana :  in  due  time  we  came  into  this  world,  the  rishis  Nara 
and  Narayana.  Thou,  son  of  Pritha,  are  not  different  from  me,  nor,  in 
like  manner,  I  from  thee;  no  distinction  can  be  conceived  between -us.' " 
Again,  it  is  related  in  the  Vana-parvan  that,  with  the  view  of 
obtaining  celestial  weapons,  Arjuna,  at  the  suggestion  of  Indra 
(w.  1513  ff.),  went  northward,  to  the  top  of  the  Himalaya,  to  see 
Mahadeva  (vv.  1526  ff.)  Arrived  there,  he  performs  austerity.  The 
rishis,  not  knowing  his  object,  are  alarmed,  and  go  to  tell  Mahadeva 
(vv.  1543  ff.),  who  assures  them  that  there  is  no  cause  for  apprehension, 
as  Arjuna  cherishes  no  ambitious  designs.  Mahadeva  then  takes  his 
bow  and  arrows,  and  assuming  the  form  of  a  Kirata  (barbarous 
mountaineer),  approaches  Arjuna  (vv.  1551  ff.).     At  that  moment  a 

'2'  The  mutual  attacliment  of  Nara  and  Narayaua,  or  Arjuna  and  Krishna,  may 
therefore  be  quoted  as  an  Indian  parallel  to  the  renowned  friendships  which  are 
already  proverbial  in  the  western  world,  viz.  those  of  David  and  Jonathan,  Pylades 
and  Orestes,  Damon  and  Pythias. 


AEJUNA  IS  OVERCOME  BY  MAHADEVA,  AND  WOESHIPS  HIM.  231 

Danava,  in  the  form  of  a  boar,  is  meditating  an  attack  upoii  Arjuna, 
who  prepares  to  shoot  him  with  his  arrows.  The  Kirata  desires  Arjuna 
to  allow  him  to  shoot  the  Danava,  aa  he  had  been  the  first  to  take  aim  ; 
but  Arjuna  will  ilot  consent ;  and  they  both  shoot  together,  and  kill 
the  boar.  Arjuna  addresses  the  Kirata,  and  complains  that  he  had 
acted  in  an  unsportsmanlike  manner  (┬╗a  ley  esho  mrigaya-dharmo  yas 
tvaya  ^dya  krito  mayi),  axiA  that  he  should  therefore  kill  him.  The 
Kirata  replies  that  he  hkd  aimed  first,  and  had  killed  the  Danava,  and 
would  kiU  Arjuna  also.  Mahadeva,  in  the  form  of  the  Kirata,  and 
Arjuna  then  fight  together  (vv.  1582  ff.)  with  a  succession  of  weapons, 
arrows,  swords,  trees,  stones,  etc.,  till  at  length  Arjuna  is  squeezed  by 
his  opponent,  and  falls  exhausted  (v.  1613).  He,  however,  revives, 
and  "worships  his  enemy,  falling  at  his  feet.  Mahadeva  expresses 
admiration  of  Arjuna's  prowess,  and  promises  to  give  him  an  irre- 
sistible weapon  which  he  is  fit  to  wield.  The  narrative  then  proceeds 
(vv.  1622  fi^.)  :  Tato  devam  Mahadevarh  Giri&am  inla/paninam  \  dadarsa 
Phalgunds  tatra  saha  devya  mahadyutim  \  sa  januhhyam  maMm  gatvS. 
Sirasa  pranipatya  cha  \  prasSdm/amasa  Saram  Parthah  pa/ra-pwan- 
jayah  \  Arjunah  uvScha]  "  Kapardin  sarvadeve^a  Bhaga-netra-nipatana  \ 
deva-deva  Mahadeva  mla-grlva  jata-dhara  \  Mrandndncha  paramam 
jane  tvath  Tryambaham  viihum  \  devanancha  gatim  deva  tvat-prasutam 
idam  jagat  \  ajeyas  tvam  trilhir  lokaih  sa-devasu/ra-mdnushaih  \  S'imya 
Vishnu-rupaya  Vishmve  S'wa-rupme  |  Balcshayajna-vinasaya  Hari- 
Budraya  vai  nctmah  ]  lalatakshaya  S'arvaya  tmlhushe  Siila-pdmye  | 
pinaka-goptre  surydya  mdrjdliyaya  vedhase  \  prasddaye  tvdm  hhagavan 
sarva-hhuta-mahehara  |  ganeiam  jagatah  ianibhum  loka-karana-kdranam\ 
pradhdna-pwrmMtltam  pdrarh  sukshmataram  Haram  \ 

"Then  Phalguna  (Arjuna)  beheld  the  god  Mahadeva,  Giri^a,  bearer 
of  the  trident,  Tesplendent,  together  with  his  goddess.  Palling  on  the 
ground  on  his  knees,  and  bowing  his  head,  the  son  of  Pritha,  con- 
queror of  hostile  cities,  propitiated  Hara  (Mahadeva)  in  these  words : 
'  God  with  the  spirally-braided  "hair,  lord  of  all  the  gods,  extinguisher 
of  Bhaga's  eyes,  god  of  gods,  Mahadeva  (the  great  god),  blue-necked, 
wearer  of  matted  hair,  I  know  thee  to  be  of  causes  the  supreme, 
Tryambaka,  the  mighty,  the  refuge  of  the  gods.  From  thee  this 
world  has  been  produced.  Thou  art  invincible  by  the  three  worlds, 
including  the  gods,  Asuras,  and  men.     Adoration  be  to  S'iva  in  the 


232    MAHADEVA  GIVES  THE  PAS'UPATA  WEAPON  TO  AEJUKA. 

form  of  Vishnu,  to  Vishnu  in  the  form  of  S'iva,  to  the  destroyer  of 
Daksha's  sacrifice,  to  Hari-Rudra,  to  him  with  the  frontal  eye,  to 
S'arva,  the  beneficent,  the  wieldei?  of  the  trident,  the  bearer  of  the 
bow,  the  BUD,  the  Maijaliya,^'  the  disposer.  I  propitiate  thee, 
divine  lord  of  all  creatures,  lord  of  troops,  benefactor  of  the  world, 
cause  of  the  causes  of  the  world  {i.e.  ultimate  creator  of  the  im- 
mediate creators),  who  transcendest  Pradhana  and  Purusha  (matter 
and  spirit),  the  supreme,  most  subtile,  Hara.'  " 

Mahadera  then  embraces  Arjuna,  and  says  to  him : 

1637  ff. Рђћ Devadevah  uvacha  \  JVaras  ivam  purva-dehe  vai  Narayam- 
sahdyavdn  |  Badaryam  taptavdn  ugram  tapo  varshayutdn  bahun  | 
tvayi  va  pdramam  tejo  Vishnau  vd  purushottame  \  yuvdhhydm  puru- 
shdgrydhhydm  tejasd  dhdryate  jagat  \  & ahrabhisheke  sumahad  dhanur 
jalada-nihsvanam  \  pragrihya  ddnavdh  idstds  tvayd  Krishnena  cha  pralho 
ityddi  \  "  Thou  wast  Nara  in  a  former  body,  and  with  Narayana  for 
thy  companion,  didst  perform  dreadful  austerity  at  Badari  for  many 
myriads  of  years.  Either  in  thee  is  the  highest  power,  or  in  Vishnu 
the  supreme  Purusha.  By  you  twain,  the  chief  of  men  (or  Purushas), 
through  your  power,  the  world  is  upheld.  At  the  inauguration  of 
Skkra  (Indra),  the  Danavas  were  chastized  by  thee  and  E!rishna,  when 
thou  hadst  grasped  a  great  bow  resounding  like  the  clouds." 

Mahadeva  then  offers  Arjuna  the  choice  of  a  boon.  Arjuna  asks 
the  Pasupata  weapon  (v.  1643),  which  Mahadeva  gives  him  (v.  1650), 
though  he  cautions  him  against  discharging  it  rashly,  as  it  might 
destroy  the  whole  world.  Arjuna  accordingly  receives  the  weapon 
(v.  1656). 

Again,  in  the  Udyoga-parvan  (vv.  1917  ff.)  it  is  related  that  Bhishma 
informed  Duryodhana  that  on  one  occasion  the  gods  of  different  classes 
came  to  Brahma,  and  the  narrative  then  proceeds  (rv.  1920  ff.)  : 

Namashrityopajagmus  te  loka-vriddham  PUdmdham  \  pa/rivdrya  cha 
msve^am  parydsata  divauJcasah  \  teshdm  manai  eha  tejakhdpy  ddaddndv 
ivaujasd  \  purva-devau  vyatihrdntau  Nara-Ndrdyandv  rishi  \  Vrihaspatis 

2"  This  word  is  explained  in  Bohtllngk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  as  a  spot  to  the 
right  of  the  altar,  where  the  sacrificial  vessels  are  cleansed.  It  is  mentioned  in  Sayana's 
commentary  on  R.  V.  i.  1,4:  and  (as  Prof.  Aufrecht  has  pointed  out  to  me)  it 
occurs  in  the  Vaj.  Sanh.  v.  32,  where  the  commentator  defines  it  as  the  place  where 
the  (sacrificial)  vessels  are  washed  [marjaliyah  \  tatra  hi patrani prahshalyante). 


THE  GODS  SEE  NAEA  AND  NARAYANA.        233 

tu  papraohha  Brahmdnam  Icav  imdv  iti  |  hhavantam  nopatiskfhete  tau  nah> 
iamsa  Pitamaha  \  Brahma  uvdcha  \  yav  etau  prithwtm  dyancha  hhdsa- 
yantau  tapasvinau  |  jvalantau  rochamanau  cha  vydpyasitau  {-nauf)  mahd, 
lalau  I  Nara-Narayandv  etau  lokal  loharh  samdsthitau  \  urjitau  svena 
tapasa  mahdsattva-pardkramau  |  etau  hi  Jcarmand  loham  nandaydmdsatur 
dhruvam  \  dvidha-lhutau  maha-prajnau  viddhi  hrahman  parantapau,  \ 
aaurdndm  vindidya  deva-gandha/rva-pujitau  \  Vaiiampdyanah  uvdcha  \ 
jagama  S'akras  tach  chhrutvd  yatra  tau  tepatas  tapah  |  sdrdham  deva- 
ganaih  sarvair  Vrihaspati-purogamaih  \  tadd  devdsure  yuddhe  ihaye  jdte 
divaukasam  \  aydchata  mahdtmdnau  Na/ra-Ndrdyanau  varam  \  tav  dbru- 
tdtJi  vrinlshveti  tadd  Bharata-sattama  \  athaitdv  abravlch  chhakrah 
sahyam  nah  Icriyatdm  iti  \  tatas  tau  S'ahram  ahrutdm  Ica/rishydvo  yad 
iehhasi  \  tdhhydneha  sahitah  S'akro  vijigye  daitya-ddnavdn  \  Narah  Indrasya 
sangrdme  hatvd  iatrun  parantapah  \  Paulomdn  Kdlakar^dmicha  sahasrdni 
iatdni  cha  \  esha  Ihrdnte  rathe  tishthan  hhaUendpdharaeh  chhirah  \ 
Jambhasya  grasamdnasya  tadd  hy  Arjunam  dhave  \  esha  pdre  samudrasya 
Siranyapuram  drujat  \  jitvd  shashtim  sahasrdni  Nivdtaliavachan  rane  | 
esha  devdn  sahendrena  jitvd  para-puranjayah  |  atarpayad  mahdbdhv/r 
Arjuno  Jdtavedasam  \  Ndrdyanas  tathaivatra  Ihuyaio  ^rtydn  jaghdna  ha\ 
evam  etau  mahd-vlryau  tau  paiyata  samagatau  |  Vdsudevdrjunau  vlrau 
samavetau  mahdrathau  \  Nara-Ndrdyanau  devau  purva-devdv  iti  irutih  \ 
aj'eyau  mdnushe  lohe  sendrair  api  swrdsuraih  \  esha  Ndrdyanah  Krishnah 
Phdlgunai  cha  Narah  smritah  \  Ndrdyano  Narai  chaiva  sattvam  ekam 
dvidhd-kritam  |  etau  hi  karmand  lohdn  ainuvdte  'kshaydn  dhruvdn  \  tatra 
tatraiva  jdyete  yuddha-kdle  punah  punah  \  tasmdt  harmaiva  kartavyam 
iti  hovdclM  Ndradah  \  etad  hi  sa/rvam  dehashta  Yrishni-chakrasya  veda- 
vit  I  iankha-chahra-gadd-hastam  yadd  drakshyasi  Keiavam  \  parydda- 
ddnam  ehdstrdni  hhima-dhanvdnam  Arjunam  \  sandtanau  mahdtmdnau 
krishndv  eka-rathe  sthitau  I  Duryodhana  tadd  tdta  smartdsi  vachanam 
mama  \ 

"Doing  obeisance,  the  gods  approached  the  Progenitor,  the  chief  (or 
ancient)  of  the  worlds ;  and  encompassing,  they  sat  around  the  lord  of 
all.  The  two  ancient  and  surpassing  gods,  the  rishis  Nara  and  Nara- 
yana,  deprived  them,  as  it  were,  of  thought  and  of  strength  by  their 
splendour.  Vrihaspati  inquired  of  Brahma,  'Tell  us,  0  Brogenitor, 
who  these  two  are  who  do  not  approach  thee.'  Brahma  said :  '  These 
devotees  of  mighty  strength,  burning  and  shining,  who  sit  pervading 


234  EXPLOITS  OF  NAEA  "AND  NARlYAKA. 

and  illuminating  the  earth  and  the  sky,  these  are  Nara'and  Narayana, 
who  have  travelled  from  world  to  world,  "strong  by  their  own  austerity, 
of  great  dignity  and  valour.  These  two  have  perpetually  gladdened  the 
world  by  their  deeds.  Know,  0  Priest,  that  these,  destroyers  of  their 
foes,  of  great  intelligence,  adored  of  gods  and  Grandharvas,  have  become 
^  twain  for  the  destruction  of  the  Asuras.'  Having  heard  this,  Indra, 
accompanied  by  all  the  hosts  of  gods,  headed  by  Vyihaspati,  went  to 
the  place  where  these  two  devotees  were  performing  austerity.  Alarm 
having  been  at  that  time  excited  among  the  celestials  by  a  war  between 
the  gods  knd  Asuras,  he  (Indra)  begged  of  the  great  Nara  and  Nara- 
yana  a  boon.  They  replied,  '  Choose.'  Then  Indra  said,  '  Let  us  be 
delivered.'  They  answered  Indra,  '  "We  will  do  what  fhou  desirest.' 
And  with  their  assistance  Indra  conquered  the  Daityas  and  Danavas. 
Nara,  the  vexer  of  foes,  having  slain  in  battle  the  enemies  of  Indra, 
thousands  and  hundreds  of  Paulomas  and  Kalakanjas,^^Рђћ he,  standing 
in  a  whirling  chariot,  cut  off  the  head  of  Jambha,'"*  who  was  swallow- 
ing up  Arjuna  in  battle.  He  demolished  Hiranyapura  (or  the  city 
"Of  gold),  on  the  other  'side  of  the  ocean,  laving  slain  in  ba/ttle  svstj 
thousand  Nivatakavachas.  The  large-armed  Arjuna,  concLueror  of 
hostile  cities,  havmg,  'along  with  Indra,  overcome  the  gods,  satiated 
Jatavedas  ( Agni,)  [with  his  oblations}.  In  like  'manner  Narayana  slew 
Рђбmany  others.  Thus  behold  those  twain  arrived Рђћ ^those  twain  who  are 
of  so  great  strength,  Vasiideva  and  Arjuna,  united  together,  riders  on 
great  cars,  ITara  and  ITarayana,  the  deities,  the  ancient  deities,  as  it  is 
teported,  invincible  in  the  world  of  mortals  even  by  Indra  and  the 
other  gods  and  Asuras.  This  Narayana  is  Krishna,  and  Nara  is  called 
Phalguna  (Arjuna).  ITarayana  and  Nara  are  one  being,  divided  into 
twain.  These  two  through  their  works  pervade  the  undecaying  and 
perpetual  worlds.  They  are  born  at  different  places  at  the  time  of 
battle  again  and  again.  Wherefore  Narada  said  that  works  are  to  be 
perfonned.  All  this  he  (Narada)  who  knew  the  Veda  said  to  the 
army  of  this  Vrishnis.  IVhen  thou  shalt  see  Ke^ava  (Krishna)  with 
his  shell,  discus  and  club,  'and  Arjuna  with  the  dreadful  bOw,  assuming 
his  arms,  these  two  eternal  and  glorious  beings,  of  dark  complexion, 
mounted -on  one  car, Рђћ then,  dear  Duryodhaha,  thou  shalt  remember 
my  words."  (Cdnipare  the  same  warning  giVen  in  p.  218.) 
M8  The  name  of  a  demon.    It  will  occur  again  below. 


DAMBirODBHAVA  VANQUISHED  BY  NAEA.  235 

It  is  narrated 'in  another  part  of  ihe  same  TJdyoga-parvan  (vv. 
3459-3488)  that,  in  order  to  persuade  the  Kurus  to  adopt  moderate 
counsels  by  showing  ^tl^p  great  po'wer  of  Arjuna  and  Krishna,  Para^u- 
rama  told  ihem  another' stOry  about  the  tWo  rishfe  Nara  and  Narayana. 
There  was  formerly,  he  says,  an  universal  sovereign  named  Dambhod- 
bhava,  who  had  an  overweening  tjonceit  Of  his  own  prowess.  Being 
told  by  his  independent  Brahmans  that  there  were  -two  ascetics  whom 
he  could  not  match,  viz.  Nara  and  Narayana,  he  proceeded  with  his 
army  to  the  mountain  Gaadhamadana,  where  he  found  the  emaciated 
Saints,  and  challenged  'them  'to  fight.  They  tried  to  put  him  off  by 
saying  that  they  were  divested  of  all  earthly  passions,  and  lived  in  an 
dtmosphere  of  peace.  Dambhodbhava,  however,  insisted  on  fighting, 
when  Nara  took  a  handful  of  straws,  and  defied  him.  With  these 
arms  he  neutralized  all  the  arrows  of  Dambhodbhava's  host,  and  as 
the  straws  whitened  aH  the  ^air,  and  penetrated  into  the  eyes,  ears, 
and  noses  of  the  assailants,  Dambhodbhava  was  soon  forced  to  faH  at 
Nara's  feet,  and  sue  for  peace.  Being  admonished  by  his  conqueror 
to  be  more  humble  in  future,  he  departed  homeward,  and  ever  after 
led  &  righteous  life. 

The  next  passage  on  the  same  subject  is  from  the  Drona-parvan, 
vv.  419  ff. : 

Arjwnah  -Keiavasyaimg.  Krishna  '"py  atma  Kiritinnh  '\  Arjune  vijayo 
nityam  Xrishne  kirtiseha  iaivatl  \  sarveshv  api  eha  hheshu  Blhhatsur 
apardjitah  \  prddMnyenaiva  bkuyisJukam  ameydh  Keime  gmah  \  mohdd 
РђбBuryodhano  Emshmfh,  yo  na  vetttha  Ke&a/oam  \  mdhito  daiva-yogma 
mrityu-pdia-pwraahritah  \  na  veda  Krishnam  Ddiafham  Arjiinam  chawa 
Pandavam  \  puna-devau  mdhdtmanau  JVara-NdrayandV  ubhau  \  ehat- 
manau  dvidha-bhutau  driiyete  mdnushair  hhuvi  |  manctsd  'pi  hi  durdhdr- 
shau  sendm  etdm  yaiawinau  \  ndiayetam  iheehhantau  mdmtahatvdch  cha 
mehhatah\ 

"  Arjuna  is  the  soul  of  Ke^ava  (Krishna),  and  Krishna  too  is  the 
soul  of  Kirltin  (Afjuna).  Victory  abides  perpetually  with  Arjuna, 
and  eternal  renown  with  Krishna.  And  even  in  all  worlds  Arjuaa  is 
unoonq^uered.  Through  his  pre-eminence  there  -are  infinite  virtues 
in  abundance  in  Ke^ava.  [The  reason  why]  Duryodhana,  through 
infatuation,  does  not  know  Krishna,  is  that,  deluded  by  destiny,  and 
involved  in  the  bonds  of  death,  he  does  not  recognize  Krishna  the 


236  BHTSHMA  EELATES  HOW  KRISHNA  WAS 

Da^arha,  and  Arjuna  the  Pandava.  The  former  gods,  the  two  mighty 
ones,  Nara  and  Narayana,  though,  in  reality,  one  in  nature,  are  by 
men  on  earth  seen  separated  into  two.  These  illustrious  [beings],  who 
are  inyincible  even  in  imagination,  could,  if  they  desired,  destroy  this 
army,  but  from  their  humanity  they  do  not  desire  it." 

Again,  in  the  Bhishma-parvan,  vv.  2932  ff.,  Bhishma  exhorts  Dur- 
yodhana  to  come  to  terms  with  the  Pandavas,  who,  he  says,  are  in- 
vincible, in  consequence  of  Krishna's  protection.  To  illustrate  Krishna's 
divine  greatness,  Bhishma  goes  on  to  tell  a  story  of  his  being  celebrated 
by  Brahma  in  a  hymn  (2944  ff.),  and  entreated  to  become  incarnate  in 
the  tribe  of  the  Tadus,  for  the  establishment  of  righteousness,  the  de- 
struction of  the  Daityas,  and  the  preservation  of  the  world  (2964  f.). 
Vishnu  assents  to  Brahma's  request,  and  disappears.  Being  then 
asked  by  the  attendant  gods  and  rishis  who  it  was  that  he  had  just 
worshipped,  Brahma  replies  as  follows  (2978  ff.)  : 

Yat  tat  param  hhavuhyancha  Ihmita  yaohha  yat  foram  |  hhutdtma 
yah  prahhuS  ehawa  Brahma  yach  eha  param  padam  |  tenasmi  krita-sam- 
vadah  prasannena  surarshahhdh  |  jagato  'nugrahdrthaya  ydchito  me 
jagat-patih  \  "  mdnmham  loham  dtiahtha  Vasudevah  iti  irutah  \  asu/rdndm 
hadhdrthaya  samhhavasva  mahltale  \  sangrdme  nihatah  ye  te  daitya-ddnava- 
rdkshasdh  \  te  ime  nrishu  sanibhutdh  ghora-rupdh  mahdlaldh  \  teshdm 
hadhdrtham  bhagavdn  Narena  sahito  hall  |  mdnushlm  yonim  asthdya  eha- 
rishyasi  mahi-tale"  \  Na/ra-Ndrdyanau  tau  tu  pwrdndv  rishi-sattamau  | 
(yeyau  hi  rane  yau  tau  sametair  amarair  api  |  sahitau  mdnushe  lake 
samhhutdv  amita-dyuti  |  mudhds  te  tau  na  jdnanti  Nara-Ndrdyandv 
rishi  I  yasyaham  dtmajo  Brahma  sarvasya  jagatah  patih  |  Vdsudevo 
'nuneyo  vah  sarva-loka-maheivarah  |  tatha  manushyo  'yam  iti  kaddohit 
sura-sattamdh  \  ndvajneyo  mahdviryah  Sankha-chakra-gadd-dharah  \  etat 
paramakam  guhyam  etat  paramakam  padam  \  etat  paramakam  Brahma 
etat  paramakam  yaiah  |  etad  aksharam  a/oyaTctam  etach  ehhdhatam  eva 
cha  I  etat  Pwrusha-sanjno  vai  giyate  jndyate  na  cha  \  etat  paramakam 
tejah  etat  paramakam  suk^am  |  etat  paramakam  satyatm,  ktrtitam  Visva- 
karmand  \  tasmdt  surdswaihs  sarvaih  sendraii  ohdmita-vikramah  \  nav^- 
neyo  Vdsudevo  mdnusho  'yam  iti  prabho  \  yai  cha  mdnusha-mdtro  'yam 
iti  bruydt  sa  manda-dhih  \  Srishikeiam  avajndndt  tam  dhuh  pwrwshCidha- 
mam  |  tarn  yoginam  mahdtmdnam  pravishtam  mdmtshim  tanum  |  yo 
'vamanyed  Vdmdevam  tam  dhus  tdmasam  janah  |  devam  chardehardtmd- 


CELEBRATED  IN  A  HYMN  BY  BRAHMA.  2?7 

na0i  irwatsanka'Hi  suvarchasam  \  padma-nabha0i  na  janati  tarn  ahus 
tdmaaam  jandl^  \  Mrlta-lcaustulha-dharam  mitrandm  abhayanharam  \ 
majanan  mahatmanam  ghore  tamasi  majjati  |  .  .  .  3002  :  Varito  'si 
purd  tdta  munibhir  hhdvitdtmabhih  \  md  gaohha  samyugam  tena  Vasu- 
devena  dhamiind  |  Pdndmaih  sdrdham  iti  yat  tat  tvam  mohdd  na  hudh- 
yase  \  manye  tvdm  RdksJmsam  kruram  tathd  chdsi  tamo-vritah  \  tasmad 
Mshasi  Oovindam  Pdndavanoha  Bhanar^ayam  \  Na/ra-Ndrdyanwo  devau 
ko  'nyo  dvishydd  hi  manavah  \ 

"That  being  -wlio  is  supreme,  who  is  to  be,  who  shall  continue  to 
be  supreme,  who  is  the  soul  of  beings,  and  the  lord,  and  who  is 
Brahma,  the  supreme  existence, Рђћ it  is  with  him,  propitious,  that  I  have 
been  conversing,  0  emiuent  deities.  The  lord  of  the  world  was  entreated 
by  me  [in  these  words]  to  show  favour  to  the  world:  'Do  thou,  cele- 
brated as  Vasudeva,  appear  in  the  world  of  men :  be  born  on  earth  for 
the  slaughter  of  the  Asuras.  The  Daityas,  Danavas,  and  Eakshasas  who 
have  been  slain  by  thee  in  battle,  they  are  these  jpho  have  been  born 
among  men,  horrible  in  form  and  great  in  might.  To  slay  them,  thou, 
the  divine  and  mighty  being,  accompanied  by  Nara,  having  entered  a 
human  womb,  wilt  act  upon  earth.'  Those  ancient  and  most  excellent 
of  rishis,  Nara  and  Farayana,  who  are  invincible  in  battle  even  by  the 
united  immortals,  and  who  are  of  boundless  splendour,  have  been  born 
together  in  the  world  of  men.  Those  fools  do  not  know  these  rishis, 
Nara  and  Narayana.  He  of  whom  I,  Brahma,  the  master  of  the  whole 
world,  am  the  son,  that  Vasudeva,  the  lord  of  all  the  worlds,  is  to  be 
propitiated  by  you.  Never,  0  most  excellent  deities,  is  the  potent 
bearer  of  the  shell,  the  discus,  and  the  club,  to  be  slighted  as  a  mere 
man.  This  Being  is  the  highest  mystery,  this  the  highest  existence, 
this  the  highest  Brahma,  this  the  highest  renown.  This  Being  is  the 
undecaying,  the  undisoernible,  the  eternal.  This  Being  which  is  called 
Purusha  is  hymned  and  is  not  known.  This  Being  is  celebrated  by 
Visvakarman  as  the  highest  power,  as  the  highest  joy,  and  as  the 
highest  truth.  "Wherefore  Yasudeva  of  boundless  might  is  not  to  be 
contemned  by  the  deities,  including  Indra,  or  by  the  Asuras,  as  a 
[mere]  man.  "Whoever  says  that  he  is  a  mere  man  is  dull  of  com- 
prehension :  from  his  contempt  of  Hrishlkesa  they  call  such  a  person 
the  lowest  of  men.  "Whoever  despises  Vasudeva,  that  great  con- 
templator  who  has  entered  a  human  body, Рђћ men  call  that  person 


288      IT  IS  INFATUATION  TO  DESPISE  OE  HATE  KRISHNA. 

one  full  of  darkness.  "Whoever  is  ignorant  of  the  glorious  god  whose 
self  is  the  world,  whose  mark  is  the  ^rivatsa,  from  whose  navel  sprang 
the  lotus,Рђћ men  call  that  person  a  man  fall  of  darkness.  Despising 
that  great  being  who  wears  the  diadem  and  jewel  (kaustubha),  who  re- 
lieves his  friends  from  fear^  a  man  is  plunged  in  horrible-darkness."'" 

Bhishma  then  says  to  Duryodhana  (v.  3302)  :  "Thouwast  formerly, 
my  son,  prohibited  by  thp  contemplative  munis  [who  said]:  'Engage 
not  in  battle  with  that  archer  Vasudeva  and  the  Pandavas.'  Since 
thou,  through  infatuation,  regardest  not  this  [prohibition],  I  look 
upon  thee  as  a  cruel  Eakshasa,  and  thou  art  enveloped  in  darkness. 
It  is  for  this  reason  that  thou  hatest  Govinda  (Krishna)  and  the 
Pandava.  Dhananjaya  (Arjuna).  For  what. other  man  could  hate  the 
gods  Nara  and  Narayana  ?  " 

The  next  passage  is  from  the  S'anti-parvan,  where  Krishna,  after^ 
describing  many  of  his.  own  other  forms  and  functions,  is  introduced 
as  saying  (vv.  13265.^.)  : 

Purd  'ham  atmqfah  Partha  pratJdiah  hdrananta/re  \  Bharmasya  Kuru- 
kdrdula  tato  'hafn  Bhwrmajah  smritah  I  Na/ra-Narayanau  purvam  tapas 
tepatur  avyayam  \  dharma-ydnam .  samdrudhau  parvate  Gandhamddam  \ 
tat-kala-samaye  chaiva  Bdksha-yajno  hdbhuva  ha  \  na  chaivdhalpayad 
hhagam  Daksho  Rudrasya  Bhdrata  \  tato  Dadhichi-vachandd  Daksha- 
yajnam  apdharat  \  sasa/rja  Siilam  hopena  prajvdlantam  muhur  muhuh  | 
taoh  chhulam  bhasmasdt  kritvd  Daksha-yajnafh,  sa-vistaram  \  dvayoh 
sahasd  "gachhad  Vadary-dSramam  antikat  \  vegena  mahatd  Partha  patad 
Ndrdyanorasi  \  tafas  tatrtefasd  "vishtdh  keidh  Ndrdyanasya  ha  \  i┬╗- 
hhuvur  munjavarnds  tu  tato  'ham  munja-ke^a/vdn  \  taohcha  Sulam  vinirdh- 
utam  humkdrena  mahdtmand  \  jagdma  S'ankara-lcaram  Ndrdyana- 
samdhatam  |  atha  Eudrah  iipddhdvat  tdv  rishi  tapasd  'nvitau  \  tatah 
enam  samudhhutam  kanthe  jagrdha  pdnind  \  Ndrdyanah  sa  vthdtmd 
tendsya  Uti-kanthatd  \  atha  Budra-vighdtdrthdm  ishikdm  Narah  uddh- 
arat  \  ma/ntraU  cha  samyuyydiu  so  'Ihavat  para^ur  mahdn  \  kshiptai  cha 
sahasd  tena  khandanam  prdpta/udms  tadd  |  tato  'ham  \^yam?'\  Zhanda- 
paraiuh  smritah  paraiukhandandt  \  ....  13278.  tayoh  samlagnayor 
yuddhe  Rudra-Ndrdyandtmanoh  \  udvigndh  sahasd  krilsndh  sarva-lokds 
tadd  'hhavan  \  ndgrihndt  Pdvakah  iuhhram  makheshu  suhutam  havih  \ 

'"'  This  passage  seems  to  have  a  polemical  aspect,  as  if  aimed  at  some  contem- 
poraries of  the  author,  who  did  not  assign  so  high  a  dignity  to  Krishna. 


KRISHNA  EEFEES  TO  HIS  OWN  FORMER  HISTORY.        239 

vedah  na  pratibhanti  sma  rishlndm  hhdvitdimanam  |  devdti  rajas  tamai 
ehaiva  samaviviiitus  tada  \  vasudhd  sanehakampe  oha  nahhaS  cha  vipa- 
phdla  ha  I  nishprahhdni  eha  tejdmai  Brahmd  ch,aivdsana->ckyutah  |  agaoh 
chhosham  samudrai  eha  Mimavdmi  eha  vya&iryata  \  tasminn  eva  samut- 
panne  nimitte  Pdndunandana  \  Brahmd  vrito  deva-ganair  rishihhU  cha 
mahdtmahMl^  \  djagdrndiuhham  desatit  yatra  yuddham,  avartata  |  so 
^njali-pKagraho  ihutvd  chatur-vaktro  nirukta-gah  \  uvdoha  vaehanap. 
Rudram  '^lokdndm  asiu  vai  Hvam  \  nyasydyudhdni  vUvesa  jagato  hita- 
kdmyayd  \  yad  aksharam  athdvyaktam  liaih  lokasya  hhdvanam  \  kuta^ 
stham  ka/rtri  nirdvandvam  akarteti  eha  yam  viduh  |  vyakti-hhava-gata-; 
sydsya  ekd  murti/r  iyafh  iubhd  \  Naro  Ndrdyanak  ehaiva  jdtau  Dharma- 
kukdeahau  |  tapasd  mahatd  yuktau  deva-kreshthau  mahd-vratau  \  aham 
prasdda-jas  tasya  kuiaSchii  kdrandntare  \  tvam  ehaiva  krodha-jas  tdta, 
purva-swrge  sandtanah  \  mayd  eha  sdrdham  varadam  vihudhaiS  cha 
maharshibhih  \  prasddayd^u  lokdndm  idntir  hhavatu  ma  ehiram"  \ 
Brahmand  tv  evam  uktas  tu  Rudrah  krodhdgnim  utsrijan  \  prasddayd- 
mdsa  tafo  devam  Nardyamm  prdbhum  \  iaranyafh  eha  jagdmddyam 
varenyaih  varadam  prabhum  \  tato  'tha  varado  devo  jita-krodho  jitendri- 
yah  I  pritimdn  ahhavat  tatra  Budrena  saha  sangatah  \  rishibhir  Brah- 
mand ehaiva  vibudhaii  eha  supujitah  \  twdeha  devam  Isdnam  Uah  sa 
Jagato  Harih  |  "  yas  tvdm  vetti  sa  mdm  vetti  yas  tvdm  anu.  sa  mam  anu  \ 
ndvayor  antaram  kinehid  ma  te  bhud  buddhir  anyathd  \  adya-prabhriti 
irwatsah  iulanko  me  bhavatv  ay  am  \  mama  pdny-ankitaS  ehdpi  krlkanthas  Рќа 
tvam  bhavishyasi"  \  evam  lakshanam  utpddya  paraspara-kritam  tadd  \ 
sakhyam  ehaivdtulam.  kritvd  Rudrena  sahitdv  rishi  \  tapas  tepatwr  avya- 
grau  visrijya  tridivaukasah  \  esha  te  kathitah  Pdrtha  Nardyana-jayo 
mridhe  ]  ndmdni  ehaiva  guhydni  niruktdni  cha  Bhdrata  |  rishihhih  kathi- 
tdntha  ydni  sankirtitdni  te  \  evam  bahti-vidhaih  rupaik-  chwrdmiha 
vasundhardm  \  Brahma-lokaneha  Kaunteya  golokanoha  sandtanam  \  mayd 
tvam  rakshito  yuddhe  mahdntam  prdptavdn  jayam  \  yas  tu  te  so  'grato 
ydti  yuddhe  sampraty  upasthite  \  tarn  viddhi  Rudram  Kaunteya  dma- 
devam  kapardinam  \  kdlah  sa  eva  kathitah  krodhajeti  mayd  tava  | 
nihatds  tena  vai  purvam  hatavdn  asi  ydn  ripun  \  aprameya-prabhdvafn, 
tarn  deva-devam  Uma-patim  |  namasva  devam  prayato  vUveiam  Haram 
akshayam  |  ityddi  \ 

13265.  "Formerly,  sou  of  Pritta,  most  excellent  of  the  Kurus,  I  was 
celebrated  on  another  occasion  as  the  son  of  Dharma :  and  hence  I  was 


240  FIGHT  BETWEEN  ETJDEA  AND  NIEATANA. 

called  Dharmaja.  In  former  times  Nara  and  Narayana,  mounted  on  the 
chariot  of  righteousness,  performed  an  undecaying  penance,  on  the 
mountain  Gandhamadami.  At  that  conjuncture  of  time,  the  sacrifice 
of  Daksha  took  place.   Daksha  did  not  then  divide  any  share  for  Eudra, 

)  who  in  consequence,  at  the  suggestion  of  Dadhichi,  swept  away  the 

sacrifice  of  Daksha,  and  in  his  anger  launched  the  trident  blazing  forth 
repeatedly.  That  trident,  after  reducing  to  ashes  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha 
with  all  its  appurtenances,  suddenly  approached  our  hermitage  at 
Badari,  and  feU  with  great  impetus  on  the  breast  of  Warayana.  The 
hair  of  Narayana,  penetrated  by  its  glow,  became  of  the  colour  of 
grass  {munja) :  from  which  I  am  called  Munjakesavat.  The  trident 
being  repelled  by  the  great  being  with  a  yeU  went  back  into  the 
hand  of  S'ankara,  when  struck  by  Narayana.  Kudra  then  ran  up  to 
those  austere  rishis,  when  Narayana,  the  soul  of  all  things,  with  his 
hand  seized  him  by  the  throat,  when  he  had  thus  sprung  up :  hence 
his  (Siva's)  name  of  S'itikantha.  Nara  next  raised  a  straw  for  the 
slaughter  of  Eudra,  and  applied  to  it  sacred  texts,  whereby  it  speedily 
became  a  huge  axe.  Hastily  hurled  by  him,  the  axe  (paraSu)  became 
shattered  into  fragments  {hhandana),  from  which  shattering  of  the  axe, 
he  is  called  Khandaparasu."  Arjuna  here  interposes  to  ask  who  was  vic- 
torious in  this  conflict;''^''  when  Krishna  proceeds:  13278.  "When  Eudra 
and  Narayana  had  become  engaged  in  battle,  aU  the  worlds  were  in- 

\l  '  stantly  distressed ;  the  fire  did  not  receive  the  shining  butter  offered  in  the 
sacrifice ;  the  veda^  were  not  revealed  to  the  contemplative  rishis ;  [the  Рќа 
qualities  of]  passion  and  darkness  invaded'the  gods :  the  earth  trembled, 
the  sky  became  split ;  the  luminaries  lost  their  light ;  Brahma  fell  from 
his  seat ;  the  ocean  became  dried  up,  and  the  Himavat  wasted.  When 
this  prodigy  had  arisen,  Brahma,  surrounded  by  the  host  of  gods,  and 
the  magnanimous  rishis,  came  to  that  disastrous  place  where  the  battle 
was  raging.  The  four-faced  god  (Brahma),  the  penetrator  of  mysteries, 
with  joined  hands,  addressed  these  words  to  Eudra:  'Let  the  welfare  of 
the  worlds  be  [consulted] ;  put  down  thy  weapons,  lord  of  all,  from  good- 
will to  the  universe.  This  is  one  auspicious  form  of  him,  now  in  the  state 
of  manifestation, Рђћ of  him  whom  [sages]  know  as  the  undecaying,  un- 
discemible  [essence],  the  lord,  the  creator  of  the  world,  the  supreme,  the 
doer,  unafi'ected  by  pleasure  or  pain,  and  not  the  doer, Рђћ [this  I  say  is 
!┬╗'┬╗  See  above,  pp.  176  f. 


EECONCILIATION  OF  EUDEA  AKD  NAEAYANA.  241 

one  form  of  him,  viz.],  'Naxa  and  Narayana,  born  in  the  race  of  Dharma, 
distinguished  by  intense  ajjjsterity,  eminent  gods,  great  devotees.  I  was 
once  on  another  occasion  born  as  the  offspring  of  his  good  pleasure,  and 
in  a  former  creation  thou  didst  spring  froni  his  anger,*''  an  everlasting 
[being].  Together  with  me  and  the  gods  and  jishis,  do  thou  speedily 
propitiate  this  bestower  of  boons;  let  the  worlds  have  tranquillity 
without  delay.'  Beiug  thus  addressed  by  Brahma,  Eudra,  abandoning 
the  fire  of  anger,  then  propitiated  the  god  Narayana,  the  lord;  and 
the  god  sought  as  his  refuge  the  primeval,  most  excellent,  boon-bestow- 
ing lord.  Then  the  boon-bestowing  god,  who  had  conquered  anger  and 
overcome  his  senses,  meeting  Eudra,  became  gratified.  Being  wor- 
shipped by  the  rishis,  by  Brahma,  and  by  the  gods,  Hari,  the  lord  of 
the  world,  addressed  the  god  Isana  (Mahadeva) :  '  He  who  knows  thee  C 
knows  me ;  he  who  loves  {lit.  favours)  thee  loves  me."'''  There  is  no 
distinction  between  us:  do  not  thou  entertain  any  other  idea.  From 
this  day  forward  let  this  ^rivatsa  of  mine  be  the  mark  of  the  trident : 
and  thou  shalt  be  the  ^rikantha  marked  upon  my  hand.'  Having  thus 
created  a  mark  devised  by  each  for  the  other,  and  having  joined  an 
incomparable  friendship  with  Eudra,  the  two  rishis  practised  austerity 
undisturbed,  after  dismissing  the  gods.  This,  son  of  Pritha,  which  I 
have  told  thee,  was  the  victory  of  Narayana  in  battle :  and  [my] 
mysterious  and  unexplained  names,  too, Рђћ those  which  are  celebrated 
by  the  rishis,  have  been  declared  to  thee.  In  this  manner  do  I  frequent 
this  earth  and  the  world  of  Brahma,  and  the  everlasting  Goloka,  in 
manifold  forms.  By  me  thou  hast  been  preserved  in  battle,  and  hast 
gained  a  great  victory.  But  know,  son  of  Kunti,  that  he  who  goes 
before  thee  in  the  conflict  which  has  now  arrived,  is  Eudra,  the  god 
of  gods,  with  spirally-braided  hair.  He,  Time,  has  been  declared  by 
me  to  thee  to  be  the  offspring  of  my  anger.  The  enemies  whom  thou 
formerly  slewest  were  slain  by  himi.  Devoutly  reverence  him  the 
god  of  gods,  the  lord  of  IJma,  of  boundless  power,  Hara,  the  undecay- 
iiig  lord  of  all." 

Again,  in  the  S'anti-parvan,  Yaisampayana  tells  Janamejaya  how 
Ifarada,  after  returning  from  S'veta  Dvipa,  saw  the  two  saints,  Nara 
and  Narayana  (v.  13337)  : 

*''  See  Teraes  13140  and  13145  of  the  S'anti-parvan,  quoted  below. 
^^'  A  similar  expression  has  already  occurred  above,  p.  230. 

VOL.  IV.  16 


< 


242  DESCEIPTION  OF  NAEA  AND  NAMYANA. 

Nipapata  cha  Mat  turnam  viidldm  Vadarim  anu  \  tata^  sa  dadriie 
devau  purdndv  rishi-sattamau  \  tapai  charantcm  sumahad  dtma-nishthau 
mahd-vratcm  \  tej'asd  'hhyadhikau  surydt  sarva-hka-virochandt  \  irivatsa- 
lakshanau  pujyau  jatd-mandala-dhdrinau  \  jdla-pdda-bhiyau  tau  tu  pdda- 
yos  chakra-lakshanau  \  vyudhorashau  dlrgha-bhiyau  tathd  musMa-ohatu- 
shhinau  \  shasti-dantdv  ashta-darhshtrau  meghaugha-sadriia-svanau  | 
svdsyau  prithulaldtau  cha  subhru  su-himu-ndsikau  \  dtapairena  sadrUe 
Mrasl  decay  OS  toy  oh  \  evam-lahshana-sampannau  mahd-pv/rusha-8anjnitau\ 
tau  drishtvd  Narado  hrishtas  tahhyam  cha  pratipujitah  \  svdgatenabhi- 
hhdshydtha  prishtak  chdndmayam  tathd  \  halhuvdntargata-matir  ni- 
rtkshya  pu/rushottamau  \ 

"  He  descended  rapidly  from  the  sky  to  the  spacious  Badari.  There 
he  saw  the  ancient  gods,  the  two  most  excellent  rishis,  performing  severe 
penance,  self-sustained,  great  devotees,  in  splendour  surpassing  the 
sun  which  illuminates  all  the  worlds,  bearing  the  srivatsa  mark, 
adorable,  wearing  a  circle  of  matted  hair,  web-footed  and  web-armed, 
with  the  mark  of  the  discus  on  their  feet,  broad-chested,  long-armed, 
with  four  testicles,  sixty  teeth  and  eight  grinders,  with  voices  sonorous 
as  a  host  of  clouds,  with  beautiful  countenances,  broad  foreheads,  hand- 
some eyebrows,  chins,  and  noses.  The  heads  of  those  two  gods  re- 
sembled umbrellas.  Beholding  them,  distinguished  by  such  marks, 
and  named  the  two  great  males,  Narada  rejoicing,  and  saluted  by  them 
in  return,  welcomed,  and  questioned  in  regard  to  his  health,  became 
absorbed  iu  reflection,  beholding  those  highest  of  persons."  He  then 
recollected  to  have  previously  seen  them  in  the  S'veta  Dvipa.  Ifara 
and  Narayana  next  ask  him  if  he  had  seen  in  the  SVeta  Dvipa  the 
supreme  Spirit,  their  own  highest  substance  {dvayoh  prahritih  para). 
He  replies  that  he  had ;  and  that  now  when  he  beheld  them  he  beheld 
Him,  as  they  were  distinguished  by  all  the  same  marks,  in  a  manifested 
form,  as  Hari  possessed  in  an  invisible  manner ;  and  that  he  had  on 
that  occasion  beheld  them  at  the  side  of  the  deity  (vv.  13351  ff. : 
Adydpi  chainam  paiydmi  yuvdm  pa&ya/n  sandtanau  \  yair  lakshanair 
iipetah  sa  Harir  avyakta-rupa-dhrik  \  tair  lakshanair  icpetau  hi  vyakta- 
rupa-dharau  ym>dm  \  drishtau  yuvdm  m.ayd  tatra  tasya  devasyapdrhatah). 
Some  further  conversation  ensUes;  and  it  is  then  related  (v.  13397  f.) 
that  Narada  remained  a  thousand  years  of  the  gods  in  their  hermitage, 
worshipping  the  deity,  and  Nara  and  Narayana. 


LASSEN'S  EEMAEKS  ON  KRISHNA ;  THE  NAEATANAS.       243 

V.  In  the  following  passage  (wMoh  is  commented  upon  by  Lassen 
in  his  Indian  Antiquities^,  Ist  ed.,  i.  621  f.,  and  note,  p.  622  ;  2nd  ed., 
pp.  768  ff.'"')  Krishna  is  represented  as  possessed  of  extraordinary- 
prowess  and  superhuman  powers  ;  but  he  is  not,  unless  it  be  in  one  or 
two  places,  represented  as  the  suprem*  deity. 

To  show  how  little  prospect  the  Kurus  had  of  vanquishing  the 
Pandus,  aided  as  the  latter  were  by  Krishna,  Dhritarashtra  gives  an 
account  of  the  exploits  of  the  Tadava^  chief : 

233  His  remarks  are  as  follows: Рђћ "The  history  of  Krishna  in  the  Mahabharata 
does  not  describe  Ms  juvenile  life  with  the  cowherds,  and  his  numerous  adventures 
with  their  wives,  which  at  a,  later  period  were  especially,  noticed  and  celebrated.  On 
the  other  hand,  victories  over  many  kings  and  tribes  are  attributed  to  him,  which 
possess  no  historical  value,  and  are  only  important  in  so  far  as  they  represent  him  as 
a  hero,  and  indicate  that  the  Yadavas  waged  frequent  wars-with  the  tribes  of  ancient 
India.  In  a  short  enumeration  of  his  feats  (the  passage  quoted  in  the  text)  he  is 
named  Govinda,  or  the  proprietor  of  cows,  and  it  said  of  him  that  he  grew  up  among 
fhe  herds.  None  of  the  stories  regarding  him  and  the  cowherds'  wives  are  here 
mentioned;  but  another  is  introduced  which  describes  him  as  a  protector  of  the 
herds,  inasmuch  as  he  strangled,  with  his  arms  a  Danava  which  in  the  form  of  a 
bull  slaughtered  the  cattle.  His  proper  and  oldest  name  as  the  sou  of  Nanda  was 
probably  Govinda.  There  must  also  have  been  stories  about  hiih  in  which  he  was 
represented  as  a  leader  of  cowherds,  for  according  to  the  Mahabharata  he  supplied 
to  Duryodhana  (by  whom  he  had.  been  solicited  to  assist  him  in  the  great  battle) 
thousands  of  cowherds,  who  are  called  the  gopas  of  Narayana.  These  take  no  share 
in  the  battle,  and  are  very  seldom  mentioned. Рђћ See  Udyoga-parvan,  v.  130  ff. ;  and 
Drona-parvan,  vv.  3255  ff.,  where  the  Narayanas,  the  cowherds,  are  spoken  of  along 
with  the  Kambojas,  etc,  as  having,  been  conquered  by  Karna,  etc.  {Narayanas  cha 
gopalah  Kambojanancha  ye  ganah  \  Karnena  njitah  \  ) 

The  Narayanas  are  also  mentioned  in  the  Dronap.  752  and  759  (see  Bohtlingk  and 
Eoth,  s.  v.). 

Krishna,  when  applied  to  by  Duryodhana,  as  well  as  by  Arjuua,  for  aid  in  the 
impending  conflict,  promises  succour  to  them  both,  but  allows  Arjuna  the  first  choice : 

Udyoga-parvan,  vv.  147  ff- Рђћ Mat-samhanana-tulyanam*  gopanam  ariudam  mahat  \ 
IfarSyandh  iti  khyalah  sane  sangrama-yodhinah  \  te  va  yudhi  duradharshah  bha- 
vantv  ekasya  sainikah  |  ayudhyamanah  sangrame  nyastai astro  ^ham  ehatah  \  abhyam 
amyataram  Partha  yat  te  hridyataram  matam  \  tad  vrinitam,  bhavan  ogre  pra/varyai 
tvam  hi  dharmatah  \  "  Let  one  of  you  either  take  those  invincible  soldiers,  the  great 
hundred  millions  of  herdsmen  called  Narayanas,  whose  bodies  are  equal  to  my  own, 
and  who  are  all  fighting  men;  or  let  him  take,  on  the  other  hand,  myself  who  do  not 
engage  in  battle,  and  have  laid  aside  my  weapons.  Do  thou,  son  of  Pritha,  first 
choose  the  one  of  these  two  things  which  is  most  acceptable  to  thee ;  for  thou  art 
justly  entitled  to  the  preference." 

Arjuna  selects  Krishna  himself,  "  the  unborn  Narayana,  destroyer  of  his  foes,  who 
had  been  at  his  will  born  among  men"  {Narayanam  amitraghnam  kdmajjatam  ajam 
nrishu),  though  he  was  not  to  fight.    Duryodhana  chose  the  army  of  warriors. 

Рђб  The  word  sajhhanana  occurs  also  in  the  Drona-parvan,  v.  147. 


241  DHRITAEASnTRA'S  ACCOtmT  OF 

Drona-parvan,  382. Рђћ Bhritarashfra^  uvacha  |  irinu  divy&ni  karmani 
Vasvdevasya  Sanjaya  \  kpitaviin  ydni  Oovindo  yatha  nanyah  puman 
kvachit  \  sam/oardhata  gopa-kule  Idhnaiva  mahatmand  \  vikhydpitam 
halam  hdhvos  irishu  lolceshu  Sanjaya  \  UehehhaiMravas-tulya-balaM  vdyu- 
vega-samamjmie\jaghanaHaya-rdjdnam  Yamund-vana-vdsinam  \  Bdila- 
vam  ghora-kwmamm  ga/odm,  mrityum  ivotthitam  |  vrisha-rupa-dharam 
halye  hhiydhhydm  nijaghdna  ha  \  Pralambkam  Na/rakam  Jamhham 
Plthafh  vd  'pi  mahdsuram  \  Mwram  chdmwra-sanka&am,  dbadhlt  pushka- 
rekshanah  \  tathd  Kamso  mahdtejdh  Jardsandhena  pdlitah  \  vikramenawa 
Krishnena  saganah  pdtito  ram  \  Sundmd  rana-vikrdntah  aamagrakshau- 
hini-patih  |  Bhoja-rdjasya  madhya-stho  hhrdtd  Kamsasya  viryavdn  \ 
Baladeva-dvitiyena  Zrishnendmitra-ghatind  |  tarasvl  samwre  daghdah  sa- 
minyah  S'urasena-rdt  \  Burvdsdh  ndma  viprarshis  tathd  parama- 
hopanak  \  dradhitah  sadarena  sa  chasmai pradadau  varan  |  tathd  Gdndhdra- 
rdjasya  sutam  virah  svayamvare  \  nirjitya  prithivi-pdldn  dvahat  pushka- 
rekshanah  \  amrishyamdndh  rdjdno  yasya  jatydh  haydh  iva  \  rathe  vai- 
vdhike  yuktdh  pratodena  krita-vrandh  \  Jardsandham  mahdldhum  upd- 
yena  Jandrdanah  \  parena  ghdtaydmasa  samagrdkshauhinl-patim  |  Chedi- 
rajdncha  vikrdntam  raja-send-patim  lall  \  arghe  wadmndnancha  jaghdrm 
paku-vat  tadd  \  Sauhham  daitya-puram  svastham  S'dha-guptam  durd- 

sadam  \  samudra-kukshau  vihramya  pdtaydmdaa  Mddha/vah  | 

V.  400  :  Praviiya  makardvdsam  yddohhir  alhisamvritam  \  jigdya  Varu- 
nam  sankhye  salildntwrgatam  pwrd  \  yudhi  Panohajanam  hatvd  pdtala- 
tala-vdsinam  \  pdnchajanyafn  Hrishlkeso  divyam  iankham  avdptavdn  \ 
Khdndave  Pdrtha-sahitas  toshayitvd  Hutdsanam  \  dgneyam  ostraM  dur- 
dharsham  chakram  lebhe  mahabalah  \  Vkinateyam  samdruhya  trdsayitvd 
'mardvatlm  \  Mahendra-hhavandd  virah  pdrifdtam  vpanayat  \  taohcha 
marshitavdn  S'akro  jdnams  tasya  pardkramam  |  rdjndfh  chdpy  qjitam 
kanchit  Krishneneha  n  a  iuiruma  |  yachcha  tad  mahad  dicharyam  sabhdydm 
mama  Sanjaya  \  kritcfmn  Pundarikdkshah  kas  tad-anya  ihdrhati  \  lahdha- 
hhaktyd  prasanno  'ham  adrdksham  Krishnam  Uvaram  |  tad  me  suvidita0i 
sarvam  pratyaksham  iva  ohdgamam  \  ndntam  vikrama-yuktasya  buddhyd 
yuktasya  vd  punah  \  ka/rmand  kakyate  gantum  Srishikekasya  Sanjaya  \ 

tathd  Gadai  cha  S'ambakha  Pradyumno  'iha  Vidurathah  \ 

410:  Ete  'nye  balavantaS  eha  Trishni-virdh  prahdrinah  \  kathanchit 
Pdndavdmkam  krayeyuh  sama/re  sthitah  \  dhutah  Vrishni-vlrena  Keiavena 
mahatmand  |  tatah  mmsayitam  sarvam  bhaved  iti  matir  mama  \  ndgdyuta- 


KRISHNA'S  VARIOUS  EXPLOITS.  245 

Idlo  virah  Kailam-sikharopamah  \  vana-mak  hall  Hamas  tatra  yatra 
Jandrdamah  \  yam  ahuh  sarva-pitaraffi  Vasudevam  dvijdtayah  |  apt  va  hy 
esha  Pandunam  yotsyate  'rthdi/a  Smijaya  \  sa  yada  tata  sannahyet  Panda- 
vdrthaya  Sary'aya  \  na  tadd  pratisafhyoddha  hhavita  tasya  kahhana  |  yadi 
sma  Kuravah  sarvej'ayeyur  ndma  Pdndcmdn  \  Vdrshneyo  'rthdya  teshdm 
vai  grihntyat  iastram  uttamam  |,  fatah  sarvdn  naravydghro  hatvd  nara- 
patin  rane  \  Kauravdmi  eha  mahdldhuh  Kuntyai  dadydt  sa  medinim  \ 
yasya  yanta  JSnsMkeh  yoddhd  yasya  Bhananjayah  |  rathasya  tasya  hah 
sankhye pratyanlko  hhaved  rafhah  \  na  kenacMd  vpdyena  Kurunam  driiyate 
jayah  |  tasmdd  me  sarvam  dchakshva  yatha  yuddham  avartaia  \  '^* 

"  Dhritarashtra  says :  Hear,  Sanjaya,  the  divine  acts  of  Krishna, 
which  Govinda  performed,  such;  as  no  other  person  [ever  didj.  -  While 
he  was  growing  up  as  a  high-souled  boy  in  the  tribe  of  cowherds,  the 
force  of  his  arms  was  rendered  famous  by  him  in  the  three  worlds. 
He  slew  the  king  of  the  Hayas  [horses],  dwelling  in  the  woods,  of  the 
Yamuna,  equal  to  Ucohaihiravas  (the  horse  of  Indra)  in  strength,  and 
to  the  wind  in  speed.  In  his  childhood  he  destroyed  with  his  arms  the 
Danava,  a  doer  of  direful  deeds,  who  arose,,  as  it  were,  the  Death  of 
cattle,  bearing  the  form  of  a  bull.  The  lotus-eyed  [hero]  slew  Pra- 
lambha,  l^araka,  Jambha  and  Pitha,  the  great  Asura,  and  Mura,  re- 
sembling the  immortals.  So,  too,  Kansa,  of  great  force,  supported  by  Jara- 
sandha,  was,  with  his  hosts,  overthrown  in  battle  by  Krishna,  through 
his  valour.  Sunaman,  valiant  in  fight,,  the  lord  of  a  complete  army,  the 
brother  of  Kansa,  who  interposed  for  the  king  of  the  Bhojas,  the  bold  and 
heroic  prince  of  the  Surasenas,  was,  with  his  army,  burnt  up  in  battle 
by  Krishna,  destroyer  of  his  enemies,  seconded  by  Balarama.  And 
a  Brahman  rishi  called  Durvasas,  extremely  irascible,  was  worshipped 
by  him  (Krishna),  together  with  his  wife,  and  bestowed  on  him 
boons.'^  So,  too,  the  lotus-eyed  hero,  having  conquered  the  princes, 
carried  off  the  daughter  of  the  king  of  the  Gandharas  at  the  Swa- 
yamvara :  "^   and  the  princes,   being   unable   to   endure   him,    were 

'"  Towards  the  close  of  Dhptarashtra's  speech  the  following  yerse  of  a  proverbial 
character  occurs : Рђћ v.  429:  Fakvamtn  hi  badhe  Suta  vajrayante  triruiny  api  |  "  When 
men  are  ripe  for  destruction,  even  straws  smite  like  thunderbolts." 

┬╗35  See  the  Anus'asana-parvan,  vv.  7402  flf.,  referred  to  above,  p.  196. 

┬╗36  Lassen,  Ind.  Alt.  i.,  622,  first  edition  (p.  769,  second  edition),  note,  thinks  this 
story  has  probably  some  foundation  in  fact,  and  adds  that  Nagnajit,  king  of  the 
Gandharas,  is  mentioned  in  the  Ait.  Br.,  vii.  34.  See  Colebrooke's  Essays,  i.  46, 
arid  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  353. 


246      HOPELESSNESS  OF  CONTENDING  AGAINST  KRISHNA. 

yoked  like  highbred  horses  to  the  bridal  car,  and  wounded  with  the 
goad.  Janardana,  by  a  clever  device,  caused  Jarasandha,  the  large- 
armed,  lord  of  a  complete  army,  to  be  slain.'"  This  hero  also 
slaughtered  like  a  beast  the  king  of  the  Chedis  (see  above,  p.  215), 
the  valiant  lord  of  a  royal  army,  who  q[uarrelled  regarding  the  offering 
[made  to  Krishna].  Assailing  Saubha,  the  self-supporting  {i.e.  flying) 
city  of  the  Daityas,  on  the  shore  of  the  ocean,  protected  by  the  S'alva 
(king),  and  difficult  to  destroy,  Madhava  overthrew  it."  [Then  fol- 
lows a  list  of  numerous  tribes,  Angas,  Bangas,  etc.,  etc.,  conquered 

by  Krishna.] v.  400:    "Entering  of  old  the  ocean, 

filled  with  marine  monsters,  he  overcame  in  battle  Varuna,  who  had 
sunk  within  the  waters.  Having  slain  in  battle  Panchajana  dwelling 
in  Patala,  Hrishikesa  obtained  the  divine  shell  Panchajanya.  Having, 
along  with  Partha  (the  son  of  Pritha,  Arfuna),  propitiated  Agni 
in  Khandava,  this  mighty  being  acquired  the  irresistible  fiery  weapon, 
the  discus.''^  Mounted  on  Garuda,  and  terrifying  Amaravati  (the 
city  of  Indra),  this  hero  brought  back  the  parijata  from  the  abode  of 
the  elder  Indra.*^'  And  to  this  S'akra  submitted,  knowing  his  prowess. 
And  we  have  not  heard  of  any  of  the  kings  who  has  not  been  con- 
quered by  Krishna.  Then  who  but  Pundarikaksha  could  have  per- 
formed that  very  wonderful  act  which  he  did  in  my  assembly? 
Through  the  faith  which  I  had  attained,  I  beheld  Krishna,  the  lord, 
with  delight;  of  all  'that  I  was  weU  assured,  and  I  obtained  as  it 
were  a  distinct  vision,  l^o  one  can  by  act  attain  to  the  limit  of 
Hrishikesa  who  is  distinguished  by  valour  as  well  as  by  wisdom. 
And  Gada  also,  and  S'amba,  and  Pradyumna,  and  Viduratha,  [here 
follows  a  list  of  other  warriors]  these,  and  other  powerful  martial 
heroes  of  the  Yrishni  tribe,  summoned  by  the  great  Vrishni  hero, 
Kesava,  will  join  in  some  way  the  host  of  the  Pandavas,  and  stand 
up  in  the  battle.  Hence,  in  my  opinion,  everything  will  be  doubtful. 
Wherever  Janardana  is,  there  is  also  the  hero  Eama,  in  strength 
equal  to  ten  thousand  elephants,  resembling  the  summit  of  Kailasa, 
wearing  a  garland  of  wild  flowers,  and  carrying  a  plough.  Or  Vasu- 
deva,  he  whom  the  Brahmans  call  the  universal  father,  will  fight  for 

""  See  the  story  as  told  in  the  Sabha-parvan,  vv.  848  ┬Б 

^^8  Compare  note  189,  p.  191  -,  and  see  Adi-paryan,  t.  8196,  where  the  story  is  told. 

"9  See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Parana,  pp.  585  ff.  (vol.  T.,  pp.  97  ff.,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


ANOTHEE  ACCOUNT  OF  KRISHNA'S  PROWESS.  247 

the  Pandavas.  "When  he  shall  arm  [for  battle]  on  their  behalf,  no 
one  shall  then  stand  up  to  encounter  him.  Even  if  all  the  Kurus 
were  to  overcome  the  Pandavas,  Varshneya  (Krishna)  would  on  bo- 
half  of  the  latter  seize  his  pre-eminent  weapon ;  and  having  then 
slain  all  the  princes  and  the  Kauravas  in  battle,  this  great-armed  and 
tiger-like  man  {lit.  man-tiger)  would  bestow  the  earth  on  Kuntl. 
What  chariot  can  stand  in  the  conflict  against  that  chariot  of  which 
Hriahlkesa  is  the  driver,  and  on  which  Dhananjaya  (Arjuna)  fights? 
By  no  contrivance  does  the  victory  of  the  Eunis  appear  [to  be  possible]. 
Give  me  therefore  a  full  account  of  the  way  in  which  the  battle  pro- 
ceeded." 

Then  follow  the  verses  which  have  been  already  quoted  above  in 
p.  235,  Arjunah  Keiavusyatma,  "Arjuna  is  the  soul  of  Ke^ava,"  etc. 

Another  account  of  Krishna's  exploits  is  given  in  the  Udyoga-parvan. 
It  is  there  related  that  Sanjaya  had  been  sent  oh  an  embassy  to  the 
Pandus,  and  that  on  his  return  he  reported  to  the  chiefs  of  the  Kurus 
the  defiant  answer  which  Arjuna  had  given.  The  latter  chief  pro- 
phesied that  Duryodhana  would  certainly  repent  having  engaged  in 
conflict  with  himself  and  Krishna  (vv.  1863  fi^.)  He  then  enlarges  as 
follows  on  the  prowess  of  Krishna  (vv.  1875  ff.) : 

Purvahne  main  hrita-japyam  haddohid  viprah  provaehodahante  ma- 
nojnam  |  kwrtaxyam  ie  dushiaram  karma  Partha  yodhmyam  te  satrubhih 
SavyaBdchin  \  Indro  va  te  harimdn  vajra-hastah  purastdd  ydfu  samare 
'nn  vimyhnan  \  Sugrwa-yuktena  raihena  vd  te  pa&elidt  Krishna  ralcshatu 
Vdsudevah  \  vavre  ehaham  vajra-hastdd  Mahendrdd  asmin  yuddhe  Vasu- 
devafft  sahdyam  \  sa  me  Idbdho  dasyu-hadhdya  Krishna  manye  chaitad 
vihitafh  daivatair  me  |  sa  Idhuhhydm  sdgaram  uttitirshed  mahodadhim 
salilasydprameyam  \  tefasvinam  Krishnam  atyanta-iuram  yuddhena  yo 
Fasudevam  jigishet  \  girim,  sa  ichhet  tu  talena  hhettum  iiloohayaih  hjetam 
atipramdnam  \  tasyaiva  pdnih  sa-nakho  viiiryed  na  chdpi  kinchit  sa  gires 
tu  kwydt  I  agnim  samiddham  iamayed  .Ihvjdhhyam  chand/rancha  sur- 
yancha  nivdrayeta  \  hared  devdndm  amritam  prasahya  yuddhena  ya 
Fasudevam  jigisliet  \  yo  Rukminlm  eha-rathena  Bhajdn  utsddya  rajnah 
samare  prasahya  \  woaha  hhdryam  yakasd  jvalantlfh  yasydm  jajne  Rauk- 
mineyo  mahatmd  \  ay  am  Odndhdrdms  tarasa  sampramathya  jitvd  putrdn 
Nagnajitah  samagrdn  \  laddham  mumocha  vinadantam  prasahya  Sudar- 
iamtm  mi  devatdndm  laldmam  \  ayam  kapdfena  jaghdna  Pdndyam  tathd 


248  AEJUNA'S  EULOGY  OP  KRISHNA 

Kalingan  Dantakure  mama/rda  \  anena  dagdha  varsha-pugdn  anaths, 
Varanasl  nagarl  samialhvva  \  ayam  sma  yuddlie  many  ate  'nyair  ly'eyajh 
tarn  JEkalavyam  ndma  Nishdda-rajam  \  vegeneva  iailam  alhihatya  Jambhah 
sete  sa  Krishnena  hatah  pardsuh  \  tathograsenasya  sutam  sudushtam 
Vrishny-AndhaMnam  madhya-gatam  sahha-stham  |  apatayad  Baladeva- 
dvitlyo  hatva  dadau  ehograsenaya  rdj'yam  I  ayam  Sauhham  yodhaydmdsa 
svastham  vibhuhanam  mayayd  S'dha-rajam  \  Satihha-dvdri  pratya- 
grihndt  ^ataghnim  dorhhydm  hah  enam  visaheta  martyah  \  Prdgjyotishafh 
n,dma  hahhuva  dwrgam,  pwram  ghoram  Amrdnam  asahyam  \  mahdlah 
Narakas  taira  Bhaumo  jahdrdditydh  mani-kun^ale  iuhhe  |  na  taffi  devdh 
saJia  8'akrena  sekuh  samdgatdh  yudld  mrityor  ahhUdh  \  drishtvd  cha  iam 
ilikramam  Kesavasya  halam  tathaivdstram  avaramyam  \  jdnanto  'sya 
prakritim  Keia/iiasya  nyayojayan  dasyu-hadhdya  Krishnam  \  sa  tat  karma 
pratUukrava  dushkaram  aiivaryavdn  siddhishu  Vdmdwah  \  nirmoehane 
shat  sahasrdni  hatva  sanchMdya  pdidn  sahasd  kshurdntdn  \  Mwafii 
hatvd  vinihatyaugha-raksho  nirmochana'm  chdpi  jagdma  virah  |  tatraiva 
tendsya  halhuva  yuddham  mahdhalendtilalasya  Vishnoh  \  iete  sa  Krishnena 
hatah  pardsur  vdteneva  mathitah  karnikdrah  \  dhritya  Krishna  mani- 
kundale  te  hatvd  cha  Bhaumarh  Nairakam  Mv/raneha  \  sriyd  vrito  yaiasd 
chaiva  vidvdn  pratydjagdmdpratima-prabhdvah  \  asmai  varan  adadams 
tatra  devah  drishtva  hhimam  karma  kritam,  rane  tat  \  "  iramai  cha  te 
ytidhyamdnasya  na  syad  dkase  chdpsu  cha  te  kramah  sydt  \  sastrdni 
gdtre  na  cha  te  kramerann"  ity  eva  Kfishnai  cha  tatah  kritdrthah  \ 
evam-rupe  Vasudeve  ^prameye  mahdbale  guna-sampat  sadaiva  \  tarn  asa- 
hyam Vishnum  <man,ta-viryam  dkamiate  Dhdrtmdshtro  vijetum  \ 

"  Once,  in  the  forenoon,  wlien  I  had  muttered  my  prayers,  and  con- 
cluded my  ablutions,  a  Brahman  addressed  to  me  these  pleasant  words : 
'  Son  of  Pritha,  thou  hast  a  difficult  work  to  do ;  thou  hast  to  fight 
with  thine  enemies,  0  Savyasachin  (a  name  of  Arjuna).  Shall  Indra 
with  his  steeds,  and  wielding  the  thunderbolt,  go  before  thee  in  battle, 
smiting  thy  foes,  or  shall  Krishna,  the  son  of  Vasudeva,  with  his  car, 
to  which  Sugriva  (one  of  Krishna's  horses)  is  yoked,  protect  thee  from 
behind  ?'  I  elected  to  have  in  the  combat  Vasudeva  for  an  ally,  rather 
than  Mahendra,  wielding  the  thunderbolt.  Krishna  was  obtained  by 
me  as  a  helper  in  slaying  the  Dasyus,  and  I  think  that  this  was  effected 
for  me  by  the  gods.  That  man  will  try  to  stretch  oyer  the  ocean,  the 
immeasurable  receptacle  of  waters,  with  his  arms,  who  thinks  to  conquer 


ASD  ENUMERATION  OF  HIS  EXPLOITS.  249 

In  battle  the  glorious  and  eminently  heroic  Krishna.  If  any  one  should 
attempt  to  split  with  his  hand  the  white  mountain  (viz.  Kailasa),  a  vast 
pile  of  rocks,  his  hand  and  nails  would  be  worn  away,  and  he  could 
produce  no  effect  upon  the  mountain.  That  man  would  extinguish 
blazing  fire  with  his  arms,  would  stop  the  moon  and  sun,  would 
daringly  plunder  the  ambrosia  of  the  gods,  who  should  think  to  conquer 
Vasudeva  in  battle, Рђћ [Vasudeva]  who  having  boldly  destroyed  in 
battle  the  Bhoja  kings,  carried  off  on  the  same  car  with  himself  Ruk- 
minl  his  bride,  shining  in  renown,  of  whom  the  great  Eaukmineya  was 
born.  He  (Krishna^  having  by  his  prowess  destroyed  the  Gandharas, 
having  conquered  all  the  sons  of  Nagnajit,  forcibly  released  [king] 
Sudar^ana,  renowned  even  among  the  gods,  who  had  been  bound  [by 
the  sons  of  H'agnajit],  and  was  making  an  outcry.""  He  slew  Pandya 
with  the  fragment  of  a  door,  and  crushed  the  Kalingas  in  Dantakura. 
Through  him  the  city  of  Benares,  which  had  been  burnt,  and  remained 
for  many  years  defenceless,  sprang  into  existence.  He  regarded  Eka- 
lavya  the  king  of  the  Mshadas  as  invincible  by  others  in  battle,  [but 
slew  him],  having  smitten  him  furiously  with  a  rock.  Jambha  sleeps, 
bereft  of  life  by  Krishna.'^'  Seconded  by  Baladeva,  he  also  prostrated 
[Sunaman]  the  wicked  son  of  TJgrasena  standing  in  the  midst  of  the 
assembly  of  the  Vrishnis  and  AndhakaS,  and  having  slain  him,  gave 
the  kingdom  to  TJgrasena.  He  conquered  the  self-supporting  {i.e. 
flying)  [city  of]  Saubha,-  and  the  king  of  the  S'alvas,  terrible  from  his 
magical  powers,  and  arrested  with  his  arms  at  the  gate  of  Saubha  the 
weapon  S'ataghnI :  ^^  what  mortal  can  assail  him  ?  There  was  an  im- 

'*"  One  of  the  commentators  says  that  Sudarfana  was  a  certain  king,  and  explains 
devtttanaih  lalamam  by  devatanam  madhye  prasastam,  "  approved  among  the  gods." 
Another  commentator  says  lalSmam=s'iromanim,  "a  head-jewel  or  ornament."  The 
Bhagayata  Pnrana,  x.  34,  8  ff.,  tells  a  story  of  a  Vidyadhara  also  named  Sudars'ana, 
who  in  consequence  of  a  curse  had  been  changed  into  a  serpent,  but  who  renewed  his 
former  shape  on  being  touched  by  Krishna's  foot. 

2*'  The  construction  and  sense  of  this  verse  are  not  very  clear. 

'"  A  weapon  generally  supposed  to  be  a  species  of  firearms,  or  a  rocket,  but 
also  described  as  a  stone  set  round  with  iron  spikes. Рђћ Wilson's  Dictionary.  See 
also  Williams's  Sanskrit  English  Dictionary,  s.v.,  and  the  end  of  note  189,  page  191, 
above.  A  double  account  is  given  of  the  destruction  of  the  flying  (kamaga)  city  of 
Saubha  and  of  its  king  in  the  Vanar-parvan.  The  story  is  first  of  all  briefly  given 
in  vv.  615-635 ;  and  afterwards  very  diffusely  in  vv.  636-889.  Kjishna  splits  the 
city  with  his  discus  Sudars'ana  (v.  883),  and  kills  the  king  of  the  S'alvas  himself 
(v.  885).Рђћ See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  p.  615,  first  ed.,  p.  761,  second  ed. 


250  BOONS  BESTOWED  ON  KRISHNA  BT  THE  GODS. 

pregnable,  formidable,  and  unassailable  castle  of  the  Asuras,  called 
Pragjyotisha.  Thither  the  powerful  Naraka  son  of  the  Earth  had 
carried  off  the  beautiful  jewelled  earrings  of  Aditi.**'  The  assembled 
gods  aided  by  Indra,  fearless  of  death,  could  not  [overcome]  him  in 
battle.  But  perceiving  the  valour,  the  strength,  and  the  irresistible 
Рђбweapons  of  Ke^ava,  and  knowing  his  nature,  they  appointed  him 
(Krishna)  to  slay  the  Dasyu.  Vasudeva,  possessing  divine  power 
in  his  magical  endowments  (aUvaryavan  siddhishu),  undertook  that 
difficult  task.  Having  in  the  city  Nirmochana  slain  six  thousand 
[Asuras],  and  having  violently  cut  asunder  the  nooses  sharp  as 
razors,  *"  having  slain  Mura  and  the  Rakshasa  Ogha,  he  proceeded 
to  Nirmochana."'  There  Vishnu  of  surpassing  strength  had  a  fight 
with  the  powerful  foe;  who,  smitten  by  Krishna,  sleeps  lifeless, 
like  a  kamikara"*  tree  overthrown  by  the  wind.  Having  cap- 
tured the  jewelled  earrings  and  slain  Ifaraka,  son  of  the  Earth, 
and  Mura,  the  wise  Krishna  of  incomparable  power,  returned  sur- 
rounded by  splendour  and  renown.  Then  the  gods  having  seen  that 
terrible  work  which  he  had  achieved  in  battle,  conferred  upon  him 
these  boons :  '  Let  no  fatigue  oppress  thee  when  thou  art  fighting ; 
let  thy  step  traverse  the  sky  and  the  waters ;  and  let  no  weapons  make 
any  impression  on  thy  body.'  With  these  boons  Krishna  was  satisfied. 
In  Vasudeva,  who  is  of  such  a  character,  immeasurable,  and  of  mighty 
strength,  there  is  always  an  abundance  of  virtues.  It  is  this  irresistible 
Vishnu,  of  infinite  power,  whom  the  son  of  Dhritarashtra  hopes  to 


243  The  story  of  this  demon  is  told  in  the  Vishnu  Purana.Рђћ  See  "Wilson's  translation, 
pp.  581  ff.,  or  vol.  v.,  pp.  87  f┬Б.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed. 

2*4  These  nooses  are  also  mentioned  in  the  Vishnu  Purana  (see  Wilson's  transla- 
tion, as  in  the  last  note)  and  in  the  Harivam^a,  v.  6833.  See  Langlois's  note  to 
his  French  translation,  p.  521,  in  which  he  refers  to  the  Asiatic  Researches,  vol.  xiii.,- 
p.  278  ff.  In  that  article  an  account  is  given  of  the  Phansigars  or  Thugs,  \rho 
murder  their  victims  by  throwing  a  noose.  The  writer  refers  in  illustration  to 
the  fiamayana,  i.  29,  9  (Schlegel's  edition),  where  three  kinds  of  nooses  are  men- 
tioned, the  dharma-paaa,  the  kala-pasa,  and  the  Varuna-paia.  In  the  Vana-parvan, 
879,  the  epithet  Jcshuranta,  sharp  as  a  razor,  is  applied  to  Krishna's  discus. 

"'  See  verse  4407  of  this  same  parvan ;  Nirmoehane  shaUahmrah  paiair  baddhah 
mahasurah  \  This  line  evidently  contains  an  allusion  to  the  same  story  as  is  referred 
to  in  the  text ;  and  from  a  comparison  of  both  passages  I  infer  that  Nirmochana  is 
the  name  of  a  place.    Bohtlingk  and  Roth  a  v.  do  not  recognize  this  signification. 

'"  Pterospermum  acerifolium. 


K?.ISHNA  A  GREAT  DEVOTEE,  AND  PEEFOEMER  OF  SACRIFICES.  251 

It  will  be  noticed  that  Krishna  is  here  represented  as  receiving 
various  boons  from  the  gods.  It  would  appear,  therefore,  as  if  the 
author  of  this  passage  could  not  consistently  have  regarded  him  as  one 
with  the  supreme  deity. 

The  following  passage  from  the  Vana-parvan  describes  Krishna  as  a 
great  devotee,  as  a  performer  of  sacrifices,  as  a  destroyer  of  hostile  men 
and  demons  (referring  to  some  of  the  legends  already  alluded  to); 
and  also  in  some  places  identifies  him  with  the  supreme  spirit.' 
Krishna,  we  are  told,  had  gone  with  some  of  his  clansmen  to  visit 
the  Panda vas  in  the  forest  5  and  as  he  showed  himself  greatly  incensed 
at  the  conduct  of  the  Kurus,  Arjuna,  to  appease  him,  related  (need- 
lessly, one  would  think,  if  he  was  regarded  as  the  Supreme  Deity)  his 
exploits  in  former  births  (vv.  471  ff.):  Arjunah  woacha  \  Daia-varsha- 
sahasrani  yatra  Sdyangriho  munih  \  vyaeharas  tvam  pwra  Krishna 
parvaU  Qandhamadane  \  daSa-varsha-sahasrani  daia-va/rsha-iatani  cha  | 
fuMiwresko  avasah  Krishna  tvam  a^o  hhakshayan  pura  \  urdhva-lahur 
viialayam  Tada/ryam  Madhusudana  [atishthah  eha-padena  vdyu-lhakshah 
katam  samah  \  amalcrishtotta/rasangah  kriso  dhamard-aantatah  \  dslh 
Krishna  Sarasvatyam  satre  dvadasa-vdrshike  \  Fralhasam  apy  athdsadya 
tlrtJmm  pwiya-janoohitam  \  tathd  Krishna  mahatejdh  d/ivyam  iiarsha- 
sahOsrikam  (sic)  |  atishthas  tvam  yathaikena  padena  niyama-sthitah  I 
loka-pravritti-hetds  tvam  iti  Vydso  mamahravU  |  kshetra-Jnah  sarva- 
hhutdndm  ddir  antai  cha  Keiava  \  nidhdnam  tapasdm  Krishna  yajnas 
tvam  cha  sandtanafi  \  nihatya  NarAam  Bhaumam  ahritya  mani-kundale  \ 
prathamotpdditam  Krishna  medhyam  aivam  avdsrijah  \  kritvd  tat  karma 
hlcdndm  rishahhah  sarva-loka-jit  \  ahadhis  tvam  ram  sarvdn  sametan 
daitya-ddnavdn  \  tatah  sarvekvaratvam  eha  sampraddya  S'aohl-pateh  \ 
mdnusheshu  mahabdho  prddwhhvdo  ^si  Keiava  \  sa  tvam  Ndrdyano  hhutvd 
Karir  dslh  parantapa  \  Brahma  Somai  eha  Suryus  cha  Dharmo  Dhdtd 
Tamo  'nalah  \  Vdyw  Vai&ravano  Budrah  kdlak  kham  prithivl  diiah  \ 
eyai  ehardehara-gurwh  srashid  tvam  pwushottama  |  pardyanam  devam 
urdhvam  kratubhir  Madhusudana  \  ayajo  hhuri-tejah  vai  Krishna  Chai- 
trarathe  vane  \  iatarh  iata-sahasrdni  swoarnasya  Jandrdana  \  ekaikasmims 
tadd  yty'ne  paripurnani  hhdgasah  |  .  .  .  .  Sdditdh  Mauravdh  pdidh 
Msunda-Narahau  hatau  \  kritah  kshemah  punah  panthah  puram  Prdg- 
jyotisham  prati  \  Jaruthyam  Ahvritih  Krdthah  S'isupdlo  janaih  saJta  \ 
Jardsandhai  cha  S'aivyai  cha  S'atadhanvd  cha  nirjitah  |  tathd  Parjanya- 


252  KRISHNA'S  AUSTEEITIES,  AND  ONENESS  WITH  VARIOUS  GODS. 

ghoshena  rathenaditya-varchasd  \  avapsir  mahishim  hhofydm  rane  nirjitya 
Rukminam  \  Ind/rayumno  Jiatah  Icopad  Ym>ana┬Д  eha  Kaseruman  \  hatah 
Sauiha-patih  8'dlvas  ivaya  Saubham  cha  patitam  |  Iravatyam  hato 
Bhojah  Kdrtcnirya-samo  yudhi  \  Gopatis  Talahetui  cha  tvaya  vinihatdv 
tihhatc  I  idm  eha  Bhogmatim  punyam  Rishikdm  tdm  Jandrdana  \  Dva- 
raham  dtmasdt  Icritvd  samud/ram  gamayishyasi  \  na  krodho  na  cha 
mdtsaryam  ndnritam  Madhusudana  \  tvayi  tuhthati  Dasdrha  na  nriiarh- 
syam  kuto  'nrijuh  \  dsinarh  ehaitya-madhye  tvdm  dipyamdnam  sva-tejasd  \ 
dgamya  rishayah  same  ^ydehantdhhayam  Achyuta  \ 

Vana-parvan,  471.  "rormerly,  Krishna,  thou  didst  roam  for  ten 
thousand  years  on  the  mountain  Gandhamadan,  where  the  muni 
Sayangriha  was.  Formerly  thou  didst  dwell  ten  thousand  and  ten 
hundred  years  in  ponds,  suhsisting  upon  water.  Thou  didst  stand  on 
the  spacious  Eadari  a  hundred  years  with  thy  arms  aloft,  on  one  foot, 
suhsisting  on  air,  with  thy  outer  garment  thrown  off,  emaciated,  with 
thy  veins  swollen.  Going  also  to  Prabhasa,  a  sacred  spot  fit  for  holy 
men,  thou  stoodest  glorious,  Krishna,  for  a  thousand  years  of  the  gods, 
on  one  foot,  practising  self-restraint,  for  the  benefit  of  the  world, Рђћ 
this  Vyasa  declared  to  me.  Thou,  Ke^ava,  art  the  spirit  residing  in 
men's  bodies,  the  beginning  and  the  end  of  all  existences,  the  re- 
ceptacle of  austerities,  and  the  eternal  sacrifice.  Having  slain  Naraka, 
the  son  of  the  Earth,  and  having  carried  off  the  jfewelled  earrings, 
thou  didst  let  loose  the  first-produced  sacrificial  horse.  Having  per- 
formed that  rite,  chief  of  the  worlds,  and  conqueror  of  all  worlds, 
thou  didst  slay  in  battle  all  the  assembled  Daityas  and  Danavas.  And 
then,  having  conferred  the  lordship  of  the  universe  on  Indra,  thou, 
0  great-armed,  didst  become  manifested  among  mankind.  Thou, 
being  Narayana,  wert  Hari,  0  vexer  of  thy  foes.  Thou,  0  Puru- 
shottama  (or  chief  of  Spirits,  or  Males),  art  Brahma,  Soma,  Surya, 
Dharma,  Dhatri,  Tama,  Anala  (Fire),  Vayu,  Kuvera,  Eudra,  Time, 
Sky,  Earth,  the  Eegions,  the  unborn,  the  lord  of  the  world,  the 
creator.  Thou,  Madhusudana,  Krishna,  of  great  glory,  didst  with 
sacrifices  worship  the  supreme,  high,  god  in  the  forest  of  Chaitraratha. 
A  hundred  times  a  hundred  thousands  of  gold  were  then  severally 
told  out  in  full  tale  at  each  sacrifice."  [Here  follow  the  verses  quoted 
above,  p.  136,  beginning  Aditer  api  putratvam,  and  ending  nihatah 
htaio  'surdh'].     The  nooses  of  Muru  were  destroyed;   Nisunda  and 


KRISHIJA  A  PARTIAL  INCARNATION  OP  THE  DEITY.       253 

Uaraka  were  slain;  the  -way  to  the  city  Pragjyotisha  was  again 
rendered  safe.  On  the  Jaruthi  Ahvriti,  Kratha,  S'isupala  with  his 
men,  Jarasandha,  S'aivya  and  S'atadhanvan '"  were  conquered.  So, 
too,  having  vanquished  Eukmin  in  battle  with  thy  car,  resounding 
like  Parjanya,  and  gleaming  like  the  sun,  thou  didst  obtain  thy  queen 
to  be  the  object  of  thy  love.  (See  above,  p.  215.)  Indradyumna  was 
slain  by  thee  in  thy  wrath,  and  the  Yavana  Kaserumat,  and  S'alva, 
the  lord  of  Saubha ;  and  Saubha  was  thrown  down.  Bhoja,  equal  to 
Kartavirya ''*'  in  battle,  was  slain  by  thee  on  the  IravatI,  as  weU  as 
both  Gopati  and  Talaketu.  And  having  subdued  to  thyself  Dvaraka, 
thou  wilt  cause  the  holy  BhogavatI  and  the  Kishika  to  flow  to  the 
ocean.  Neither  anger,  nor  envy,  nor  falsehood,  nor  cruelty,  abides  in 
thee,  Da^arha  (Krishna):  how  then  canst  thou  be  deceitful?  The 
rishis  came  to  thee,  f  Achyuta,J  whilst  thou  wast  sitting  in  the  midst 
of  the  Chaitya  (sacrificial  ground),  resplendent  with  thy  own  bright- 
ness, and  begged  of  thee  security.  [Then  follow  some  lines  whicji 
have  been  quoted  above,  p.  229,  beginning  Tugante  sarva-bhutdni 
sanksMpya,  etc.J 

VI.  Although,  as  we  have  already  seen  from  various  passages  of  the 
Mahabharata  and  Puranas,  Erishna  is  generally  identified  with  Vishnu, 
and  Vishnu  with  Brahma,  or  the  supreme  deity,  yet  in  a  text  quoted 
above  (p.  49)  from  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  x.  33,  27,  Krishna  is  spoken 
of  as  only  a  partial  incarnation  of  the  godhead.  The  same  is  the  case 
in  another  passage  in  the  first  section  of  the  same  tenth  book  of  the 
Bhagavata.  The  king  there  says  to  S'uka  that  he  has  heard  from  him 
the  history  of  the  kings  of  the  solar  and  lunar  races,  and  among  them 
of  Yadu.  He  then  asks  the  sage  to  relate  the  achievements  of  Vishnu, 
the  creator  and  soul  of  aU  things,  who  became  partially  incarnate 
{tatrdmienavatirnasya  Vishnor  vlrydni  safhsa  nah  \  amatirya  Yador  vamie 
Ihagavan  hhufa-hkavanah  \  kritmdn  ydni  vtsvatmd  tdni  no  vaia  vistardt). 
S'uka  in  reply  goes  on  to  relate  that  the  earth  being  afflicted  by 
Daityas  in  the  shape  of  proud  princes,  had,  in  the  form  of  a  cow, 
preferred  her  complaint  to  Brahma,  who  had  consequently  gone  with 
the  other  gods  to  supplicate  the  help  of  Vishnu.  Brahma  hears  a 
voice  in  the  sky  : 

"'  See  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  pp.  428  flF.  (vol.  iv.  pp.  80  ff.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.) 
2*a  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  450  ff. 


254  K^ISHIJA  A  PARTIAL  INCAENATION  OF  VISHNU. 

Bhagavata  Pnrana,  x.  i.  21  ff. Рђћ Giram  samddhoM  gagane  samiritam 
nUamya  VedhSs  tridasan  uvacha  ha  |  gam  paurushlm  me  irinutamarah 
punar  mdhlyatam  asu  tathaiva  mdehiram  \  purawa  pumsa  {Iharena, 
Comm.)  'vadhrito  dhwra-jvaro  hhwoadbhir  amiavr  Yadmhupajtmyatam  \ 
sa  ydvad  urvyah  Iharam  ihareSvarah  sva-Mla-iaJctyd  Tcshapaya&i  chwred 
Ihuvi  I  Vasudeva-grihe  sdTcshad  bhagavan  Purushah  pwrah  \  janishyate 
tat-priyartharh  samlhavantu  sura-striyah,  \  Vasudeva-kala  'nantah  sa- 
hasra-vadamah  svarat  \  agrato  hhcmitd  devo  Hareh  priya-ehildrshayd  \ 
Vishnor  mayo,  Ihagavati  yaya  sammoMtam  jagat  \  adishfd  pralkuna 
'miena  Mryarthe  sambhavishyati  \ 

"  Having,  while  in  a  state  of  contemplation,  heard  a  voice  uttered  in 
the  sky,  Vedhas  (Brahma)  said  to  the  gods :  'Hear  from  me,  immortals, 
the  voice  of  Purusha,  and  then  speedily  act  so  [as  it  enjoins].  The 
distress  of  the  earth  was  already  understood  by  Purusha.  Do  you,  in 
portions  of  yourselves,  be  born  among  the  Tadus,  whilst  he,  the  god  of 
gj)ds,  walks  upon  the  earth,  removing  her  burthen  by  his  destructive 
power.  The  supreme  divine  Purusha  shall  be  born  in  his  own  person 
{sakshat)  in  the  house  of  Vasudeva.  To  please  him,  let  the  wives  of 
the  gods  be  born.  The  infinite,  thousand-faced,  self-resplendent  deity 
shall  first  become  a  portion  of  Vasudeva,  in  order  to  gratify  Hari.  The 
divine  Delusion  of  Vishnu,  by  which  the  world  is  deceived,  being  com- 
manded by  the  lord,  shall  be  born  in  a  portion  of  herself  to  efiect  the 
desired  objects." 

In  the  Vishnu  Parana,  also,  the  incarnation  of  Vishnu  is  spoken  of 
as  that  of  a  part,  or  even  a  part  of  a  part.  At  the  commencement  of 
the  fifth  book  of  that  work  the  following  lines  occur  : 

Nripanam.  Tcathitah  sarvo  bhavatd  vamsa-vistarah  |  Vamidnuehariiam 
chaiva  yathdvad  anuvarnitam  \  Amsavatdro  Irahmarshe  yo  ''yam  Yadu- 
kulodbhavah  \  Vishnoa  tarn  vistarendham  irotum  ichchhdmy  aSeshatah  | 
Chakdra  ydni  karmdni  bhagavdn  Purushottamah  \  AmSdmsendvatiryor- 
vyam  tatra  tdni  mune  vada  \  Pardsarah  uvdcfia  \  Maitreya  sruyaidm 
etad  yat  prishto  'liam  iha  tvayd  |  Vishnor  aSisdmia-sambhuti-charitam 
jagato  Mtam  \ 

"Tou  have  related  to  me  the  complete  genealogy  of  the  kings,  and 
also  the  entire  history  of  the  races.  I  now  wish,  divine  sage,  to  hear  in 
full  detail  the  particulars  of  the  incarnation  of  a  portion  of  Vishnu 
which  took  place  in  the  tribe  of  the  Yadus.     TeU  me,  Muni,  what  acts 


EARTH  COMPLAINS  OF  THE  LOAD  OF  DEMONS.  255 

the  divine  Purushottama  performed  Рќаwhen  he  descended  to  the  earth  in 
a  portion  of  a  portion  [of  himself].  Para^ara  repKes :  '  Hear,  Maitreya, 
that  which  you  have  asked  me,  the  history,  beneficial  to  the  world, 
of  the  birth  of  a  portion  of  a  portion  of  Vishnu.' " 

The  sage  proceeds  to  relate  (see  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  pp.  493- 
497 ;  pp.  249  ff.  of  the  4th  vol.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.)  how  the  earth  had 
complained  to  Brahma  and  the  other  gods  that  the  Asura  Kalanemi 
had  revived  in  Kansa,  and  other  demons  also  had  been  born  as  princes ; 
so  that  she  had  to  bear  upon  her  surface  many  hosts  of  strong  and 
haughty  Daitya  chiefs  wearing  celestial  forms  ;  and  that  she  could  not 
support  the  load.     (V.P.  t.  1.  12.   Etmminn  eva  hale  tu  bhuri-hhard- 

vapidita  |  jagdma  dharani  Merau  samSje   tridwauhasdm  \ 

25  I  ahshauMnyo  hi  lahuldh  divya-murti-dhritam  swrdh  \  mahdlaldndm 
driptdndrh  daityendrdndm  mamopari  |  tad-bhuri-bhdra-piddrta  na 
iahnomy  ama/reiva/rdh  \  vibhartum  dtmana  "tmanam  iti mjndpaydmi  vah  \. 
Icriyatdm  tat  mahdbhagah  mama  hhdrdvatdranam  |  yatha  rasdtalam, 
ndham  gaehheyam,  ativihvald).^^      Brahma  proposed  that  they  should 

"*'  The  Greek  writers,  too,  speak  of  the  earth  being  burthened,  but  from  a  differ- 
ent cause,  Tiz,  with  the  load  of  men,  and  that  Jupiter  brought  about  the  Trojan 
war  for  her  relief.  In  the  Helena  of  Euripides,  vv.  38  ff.,  it  is  said :  n6Keiiov  yap 
ita-fiveyKey  'EAA^i/fitfc  x^*"'^  ^*^  #pu|l  SutTrjivoitriVj  ┬Фs  ^x^""  fiporStv  Il\'fi9ovs  re 
Koutpiffeie  iJ.7jT4pa  x^t^^a,  Tvwt^v  t6  Oe/ij  T^iv  Kpiriffrov  'EWiiSos.  "  For  he  brought 
on  a  war  between  the  land  of  the  Greeks  and  the  unhappy  Phrygians,  that  he  might 
relieve  mother  Earth  of  the  crowd  and  multitude  of  mortals,  and  make  known  the 
bravest  man  in  Greece." 

Similarly  in  the  Orestes  of  the  same  author,  tv.  1639  ff.,  it  is  said:  'Eirel  fleol  t^> 
T^irSe  KaWiffTiinari  "EAAtjkos  els  ev  Koi  ^piyas  avvi\yayov,  Savdrovs  t'  eOriKav,  as 
SmavThotev  x*"""^'  "tfipurna  6vi]twv  iuj>66vov  irAripiifiaTos.  "  Since  the  gods  by 
means  of  her  beauty  brought  the  Greeks  and  Phrygians  into  conflict,  and  occasioned 
deaths,  in  order  that  they  might  remove  from  the  Earth  the  grievance  of  being 
superabundantly  replenished  with  mortals." 

And  in  the  Scholia  Minora  on  the  Iliad,  i.  5  (quoted  in  Heyne's  Homer,  Oxford, 
1821),  we  read:  ''A?lA.ot  Bi  Sarh  tffTopias  nvis  liirov  elprixeyai  rhv  "O/iripov  ^offl 
y^p  tV  yhi'  ^o.povp.4vr\P  *VTrb  avBpdinwv  Tro\vir\7j6eiaSj  fiTjBefiias  kvQp^av  &viti]s 
ellirePelas,  aiVijiroi  rhv  Ata  Kov<j>i<rSrivai  tov  &xSovs.  Tbi*  8^  A(o,  irpuTov  fi\v  iuBbs 
РђбjroiTJaai  rhv  ┬ЕTj^aiKhv  v6\РѓгfioVf  5i*  oS  troWobs  irdvu  airwXeo'ex'.  StTTcpoy  Sk  iraKiv 
avpfioiXtf  T^  Md/up  ixi>^'"'"''>i  '!Рќа'  ^'^'  fiovXiiv  ''Oivnp6s  (f>r\iriv.  ^ir┬Ф5^  oTrfj  re  ^v 
Kepavvois  9l  KaTaKKuffixois  irdvTas  SitupBeipatf  tovto  rod  Mi^/^ov  KccKvaavroSf  iiroBe- 
lievov  Se  auT^  yvdpiai  Sio,  riiv  @4tiSos  BpriToyaiuav,  Kal  ivyarphs  KaK^y  ytvvav, 
ii  &v  ^lupOTepar  irdXefMs'EKKriffl  re  Kal  PapPipois  ^7Рѓгy┬БT0,  o8t┬Фi>  aviiPfjyat  Kov(pi. 
ffS^voi  TTiv  yfiv,  iroAAui'  avaipeBivrav.  t)  Se  iaTopia  rapa  STOffivtp  tQ  rb,  Kinrpta 
jre7roii)K(iTi,   clir6rTi  o'irus-     "Kv  Ste  fivpla  <pv\a  Kwri,  x^'i'"'  irXafd/ieyo  'BaSvaT4pvou 


256  INCAENATION  OF  PARAMESTAEA'S  TWO  HAIES. 

resort  to  Vishnu,  "wio  is  tte  spirit  of  all,  and  of  whom  the  uni- 
verse consists,"  and  "who  constantly,  for  the  sake  of  earth,  descends  in 
a  very  small  portion  of  his  essence,  to  establish  righteousness  below" 
(v.  32.  sarvadawa  jagaty-arthe  m  sarvdtmd  jaganmwgah  \  svalpdmiena- 
vatlryoT'cyam,  dharmasya  Tcurute  sthitim).  The  gods  accordingly  went 
to  the  milky  sea,  and  lauded  Vishnu  in  a  long  hymn.  Vishnu  was 
gratified  by  their  praises,  desired  them  to  state  their  wishes,  and 
assured  them  that  these  should  be  accomplished.  Brahma  renewed 
his  praises ;  and  we  are  then  told  what  happened  when  they  were 
concluded : 

58.  Eoam  samstuyamanas  tu  Ihagavan  parameharah  \  Uji/ahdrdtmanah 
Tceiau  sita-hrishnau  mahdmune  \  Uvdcha  cha  surdn  etau  mat-ke^du  vasti- 
dha-tale  \  Avatirya  hhmo  hMra-Mesa-hdniM  harishyatah  \  Sii/rdscha 
sahaldh  svdmiair  avatirya  maMtale^^  \  Kurvantu  yuddham  unmattath 
purvotpannair  mahdsuraih  |  Tatah  kshayam  aieshda  te  Daiteydh  dharani- 
tdle  I  Praydsyanti  na  sandeho  mad-drik-pdta-vicliurnitdh  \  Vasudevasya 
yd  patnl  Bevaki  devatopamd  |  Tasydyam  ashtamo  garhho'^^  mat-Tceio 
bhavitd  surdh   \  Avatirya  eha  tatrdyam'^^  Kaihsam  ghatayitd  hhuvi  | 

irXdros  aUri^,  ZeJfj  5e  L^(i)V  iKetjce,  K&l  iv  irvKivais  TrpoTriSeffO'i  "Xiv&eTO  Kov(j)iffai 
&vBp^o)V  TTOfi^t^opa  yataVf  'Pitriffas  iroXefiov  ^sydXtjv  epiv  l\idKoiO'  "Otppa  Kev^ 
tretep  Qavdrtp  fidpos'  ot  5*  iv\  Tpoirj  ^Hpaes  KreivotfTo.     j^ibs  5e  reX^iero  ^ov\-fi, 

"  Others  have  declared  that  Homer  used  the  expression  (Aiis  Se  TEAe/ero  fiovKii) 
'  And  the  counsel  of  Zeus  was  fuffllled ')  in  consequence  of  a  certain  history.  For 
they  relate  that  the  Earth,  being  weighed  down  by  the  multitude  of  men,  among 
whom  there  was  no  piety,  prayed  to  Zeus  to  be  relieved  of  the  burthen ;  and  that 
he  had  first  caused  the  Theban  war,  whereby  he  destroyed  very  many.  Afterwards 
he  employed  Momus  as  his  counsellor,  (an  act)  which  Homer  calls  'Zeus's  con- 
sultation.' When  he  could  have  destroyed  the  whole  of  mankind  by  his  thunder- 
bolts or  by  deluges,  but  was  dissuaded  from  doing  so  by  Momus,  who  suggested 
two  plans,  the  marriage  of  Thetis  to  a  mortal,  and  the  generation  of  a  beautiful 
daughter,  in  consequence  of  which  two  events  a  war  was  occasioned  between  the 
Greeks  and  Barbarians,^t  thus  came  to  pass  that  the  Earth  was  lightened,  many 
being  slain.  The  history  is  found  in  Stasinus,  who  composed  the  Cypria,  and  who 
speaks  as  follows :  '  There  was  a  time  when  myriads  of  races  wandered  over  the 
Earth,  on  the  breadth  of  the  deep-bosomed  land.  But  Zeus,  beholding,  pitied 
her,  and  in  his  wise  mind  resolved  to  relieve  the  all-nurturing  Earth  of  [the  load  of] 
men,  by  exciting  the  great  strife  of  the  Ilian  war,  in  order  that  by  slaughter  he  might 
clear  away  the  burthen :  and  the  heroes  were  slain  in  the  Troad.  And  the  counsel 
of  Zeus  was  fulfilled.'  "     See  also  above,  p.  215,  note  212 ;  and  Dronap.,  2051  f. 

''o  Another  MS.  reads  mahltalam. 

"'  Another  MS.  reads  eaha  garbho  'shtamas  tast/ah. 

252  Another  MS.  reads  tatraham. 


EATNAGARBHA'S  EEMAEKS  ON  KRISHNA'S  INCAENATION,     257 

KCilanemim  samvtdbhutam  ityuktoa  'ntardadhe  Barih  \  Adriiyaya  tatas 
tasmai  pranipatya  mahamum  \  Meru-prishtham  swah  jagmur  avaterui 
cha  hhutale  \ 

"Being  thus  lauded,  the  divine  Paramesvara  plucked  out  two. of  his 
own  hairs,  a  white  and  a  black,  and  said  to  the  deities,  '  These  two 
hairs  of  mine,  descending  to  the  earth,  shall  remove  her  burthen  and 
sufferings.  And  let  all  the  deities,  descending  in  portions  of  them- 
selves to  the  earth,  fight  against  those  mad  Asuras  who  were  formerly 
bom.  Then  all  these  sons  of  Diti  (the  Asuras)  shall  no  doubt  perish, 
being  annihilated  by  the  glances  of  my  eyes.  This  my  hair,  gods, 
shall  become  the  eighth  child  of  DevakI,  the  wife  of  Vasudeva  who 
(Devaki)  resembles  the  goddesses.  And  this  [hair]  descending  there, 
shall  destroy  Kausa,  the  Kalanemi  who  has  been  born.'  Having 
thus  spoken,  Hari  disappeared.  Having  then  bowed  down  to  him 
the  unseen,  the  gods  went  to  the  top  of  Meru,  and  descended  on  the 
earth." 

The  following  are  the  remarks  which  Eatnagarbha,  one  of  the  com- 
mentators on  the  Vishnu  Purana,  makes  on  the  first  of  the  preceding 
passages  (p.  254),  and  which  have  reference  to  the  sequel  also : 

"  Chakara"  iti  \  tatra  Krishnavatdre  ati-pariohMnna-manushydkara- 
lild-vigrahenavirhh&vdd  amidmhna  ity  uMam  lyaachdrat  \  na  tu  saJcii- 
hrdsena  Krishnddy-avatdreshv  api  vi^va-rupa-darsana-sarvaiivaryddy- 
ukteh  I  Nanu  wmiino  ^msoddhdrena  iakty-ddi-hrdsas  tathd  ^fniasydpi  tad- 
apekshya  alpa-saktitv&dikam  dhdnya-rd&y-ddi-vilihdgah  iva  prasajyeta  iti 
chedna  \  prakasa-svarupe  tad-abhdvdt  \  pradipasya  hi  tan-mulaka-dlpdnta- 
rasya  vd  itpddhi-hhede  'pi  iakty-ddi-sdmya-dar^andt  "piirmm  adah 
p&rnam  idam  purnat  purnam  udaohyate  \  purmsya  purnam  addya 
purnam  evdvasishyate"  iti  iruteh  |  "param  Brahma  nardkriti  gudham 
pa/ram  Brahma  manushya-lingam  Krishnaa  tu  hhagavdn  svayam"  ityddi 
vdkyehhya^  cha  \  yas  tu  "mat-keiau  vasudhd-tale"  ity-dddv  "  ayafh 
Kamam  ghdtayitd"  ity  atra  ke^a-vyapadesah  sa  Brahmanah  paripur- 
nasya  bhu-bhdra-harana-rupam  kdryam  aty-alpa-yantra-sddhyam  iti 
khydpayitum  na  tukesayoh  Rdma-Krishnatvam  vaktum  \jadayoh  keiayos 
tad-dehakshetrajnatvdhhdvena  tat-kdryam  kartum  aiaktatvdt  ]  kekdtmaka- 
mdyayodhhava-Rdma-Krishna-dehdv  ddisya  [aviSyaf]  hhagavdn  eva  tat 
tat  karishyati  iti  ched  om  iti  hrumah  phalato  'viseshdt  "  krishndshfatnydm 
aham  niii"  iti  svayam  evoktatvdch  cha  ity  alam,  vistarena  \ 

VOL.  IV.  17 


258    COMMENTATOES'  EEMAEKS  ON  KRISHNA'S  INCAENATIONS. 

"  Purusliottama  is  here  figuratively  said  to  have  become  incarnate 
with  a  portion  of  a  portion  of  himself,  because  in  the  Krishna  incarna- 
tion he  was  manifested  in  a  merely  sportive  body  in  the  very  circum- 
scribed form  of  a  man,  and  not  because  of  any  diminution  of  his  power, 
since  even  in  the  Krishna  and  other  incarnations  he  is  said  to  have 
shown  himself  in  every  possible  form,  and  to  have  possessed  aU  divine 
power,  and  so  forth.  But  is  it  not  the  case  that  if  a  portion  is  taken 
from  a  whole  composed  of  parts,  there  is  a  decrease  of  power,  etc.  [in 
that  whole],  and  that  thus  an  inferiority  of  power  wiU  attach  to  the 
portion  relatively  to  the  whole,  just  as  when  a  heap  of  grain,  or  any 
other  such  whole,  is  divided  ?  I  answer,  No ;  since  such  a  diminution 
does  not  occur  in  him  whose  nature  is  light ;  for  though  there  is  a  seeming 
difierence  in  the  individuality  of  one  lamp,  and  of  another  lamp  derived 
from  it,  yet  an  equality  of  power  is  perceived  in  each ;  agreeably  to  the 
text  from  the  Veda  (the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiv.  8,  1,  p.  1094= 
Brih.  Aranyaka  Upan.  beginning  of  adhyaya  7,  p.  948  of  ed.  in  Biblio- 
theca  Ind.),  '  That  is  full,  and  this  is  fuU ;  a  full  arises  out  of  a  fuU : 
if  a  full  be  taken  from  a  full,  a  full  remains ; '  ^'  and  also  agreeably  to 
such  texts  as  this,  '  The  supreme  Brahma  with  the  form,  and  with  the 
characteristics,  of  a  man,  is  a  great  mystery ;  but  Krishna  is  the  lord 
himself.'  And  the  employment  of  the  term  '  hairs'  in  the  words,  '  My 
hairs  shall  descend  to  the  earth,'  and  '  This  hair  shall  slay  Kansa,'  etc., 
is  intended  to  signify  that  the  task  of  removing  the  earth's  burthen  was 
such  as  Brahma  in  all  his  plenitude  could  effect  by  a  very  slight  instru- 
mentality, and  not  to  assert  that  the  two  hairs  were  identical  with 
[Balajrama  and  Krishna :  for  two  insensible  hairs,  not  being  conscious 
spirits  animating  the  bodies  of  those  two  persons,  could  not  fulfil  their 
task.  If  it  be  said  that  the  lord  occupying  the  bodies  of  Balarama 
and  Krishna,  which  were  produced  by  the  magical  operation  of  the 
hairs,  will  do  so  and  so,  we  reply,  '  Yes,  for  there  is  no  difference  in 
the  result,  and  because  he  himself  said,   'I  [shall  be  bom]  on  the 

253  See  Dr.  Eoer's  translation  of  this  verse,  witli  his  explanatory  note  at  p.  247 
of  the  Bihliotheca  Indica,  vol.  ii.,  part  iii.  The  Commentary  on  the  verse  in  the 
S'atapatha  Brahmana,  p.  1157  of  Weber's  edition,  may  also  be  consulted.  The 
Atharva-veda  has  the  following  verse,  i.  8,  29 :  Turnat  purnam  udaehati  purnam 
purnena  sichyate  \  uto  tad  acbfa  vidyama  yatas  tat  parishichyaie  \  *'  He  takes  a  full 
from  a  full :  the  full  is  sprinkled  with  the  full :  and  may  we  to-day  know  that  from 
which  that  is  sprinkled." 


QUOTATION  FROM  THE  MAHABHARATA  ON  SAME  SUBJECT.   259 

eighth,  night  of  the  dark  fortnight  of  the  moon.'  But  there  is  no 
occasion  for  further  prolixity."^'* 

The  passage  which  follows  is  from  another  commentary  on  the  same 
text :  ''^ 

ZJjjaJidra  |  utpdtitavan  |  ayam  bkdvah  |  mama  dushharam  ohed  yushr- 
mahhih  sahayyam  karyam  syat  \  na  tv  etad  asti  hhu-lMrdpakaranadau 
mahaty  api  kdr.ye  mat-keia-matrasyaiva  samarthatndd  iti  \  na  iu  heia- 
mdtravatdrah  iti  mantavyam  \  "  mad-drilc-pdta-vichiirnitak"  "  krislir- 
ndshtamyam  aham  utpatsydmi"  ityddishu  sdhshdt  svdvatdratvokteh  \  siiet- 
Tcrishna-kehddhdranam  cha  hhhdrtham  eva  \  "  Ujjahdra  means  that  he 
'  plucked  out '  the  hairs.  The  sense  is  as  follows  :  '  It  would  be  a 
difficult  matter  if  aid  had  to  he-  rendered  to  me  by  you  :  hut  the  same 
is  not  the  case  in  regard  to  the  task,  though  a  great  one,  of  removing 
the  load  of  the  earth,  etc.,  since  my  hairs  alone  are  equal  to  it.'  But 
it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  there  was  nothing  beyond  an  incarnatioa 
of  the  mere  hairs  ;  for  his  own  incarnation  is  distinctly  asserted  in  the 
words  '  annihilated  by  the  glance  of  my  eye,'  '  I  shall  be  born  on  the 
eighth  night  of  the  dark  fortnight  of  the  moon,'  etc.,  etc.  The  mention 
of  his  plucking  out  white  and  black  hairs  is  for  the  purpose  of 
ornament." ''┬░┬░ 

The  same  story  about  the  production  of  Balarama  and  Krishna  from 
two  hairs  is  also  told  in  the  Mahabharata,  Adi-parvan,  7306  if.  : 

Tair  eva  sdrdham  tu  tatah  sa  devo  jagdma  Ndrdyanam  aprameyam  \ 
anantam  avyaktam  ajam  purdnam.  sandtanam  viivam  ananta-rupam  \  sa 
chdpi  tad  vyadadhdt  sarvam  eva  tatah  sarve  samiahhuvur  dharanydm  \ 
sa  chdpi  JceSau  Harir  udvavarha  suklam  ekam  aparam  chdpi  Tcrishnam  \ 
tau  chdpi  heiau  niviietdm  Yadundm  kule  striyau  Devakim  Rohinlm  cha  | 
tayor  eho  Baladevo  habhuva  yo  'sau  ivetas  tasya  devasya  keiah  \  Krishna 
dvitiyah  Kekavah  sambalhuva  heso  yo  'sau  varnatah  krishnah  uktah  \ 

"  Along  with  them  (viz.  four  preceding  Indras  and  a  fifth  deity 
sprung  from  Indra)  the  god  (Indra)  went  to  Narayana,  immeasurable, 
infinite,  undiscernible,  unborn,  primeval,  everlasting,  universal,  endless 

''*  The  preceding  copy  of  the  text,  and  commentary  on  the  text,  from  the  Vishnu 
Purana,  have  been  kindly  copied,  and  carefully  collated,  for  me  by  Professor  Monier 
"Williams. 

*┬░'  I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Goldstiicker  for  copying  this  passage  for  me. 

'58  See  Professor  Wilson's  notes  on  these  passages  of  the  Vishnu  Purana,  viz. 
in  p.  492,  and  in  p.  497  (pp.  247  and  258,  vol.  v.,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


260  NILAKANTHA  ON  THE  PASSAGE  FEOM  THE  MAHABHAEATA, 

in  his  forms ;  and  he  .fulfilled  all  [that  they  desired].  Then  they  were 
all  born  on  earth.  Hari  also  plucked  out  two  hairs,  one  white  .and  the 
other  black.  These  two  hairs  entered  into  two  women  of  the  tribe  of 
the  Yadus,  Devaki  and  Eohinl.  One  of  them,  the  white  hair  of  the 
god,  became  Baladeva ;  while  the  second  hair  {keia),  which  was  called 
black  {Jcrishna)  in  colour,  became  Krishna,  Kesava." 

The  following  remarks  are  made  on  this  passage  by  Nilakantha,  one 
of  the  commentators  on  the  Mahabharata : 

Atra  Tceiav  eva  reto-rupau  Pdndmdnam  iva  Bdma-Srishnayor  api 
pralcarana-sangaty-artham  sakshad  deva-retasah  utpatter  avakta/vyat- 
vaf^''  I  atah  eva  Bevakyam  RoMnydncha  sdkshdi  keSa-prave^ah  uohyate 
na  tu  Vasudeve  \  tathd  sati  tu  "  devdndm  reto  varsham  varshasya  retah 
oshadhayah"  ityddi-irauta-pranddyd  'smad-ddi-vat  tayor  api  vyma- 
dhdnena  deva-prahhavatvam  sydt  \  tathd  cha  "  etan  ndnd-vatdranam 
nidhdnam  vijam  avyayam"  iti  hhagavatah  sakshad  matsyady-wvatara- 
vljatvam  mhyamdnam  virudhyeta  \  apicha  kesa-retasor  deha-jatve  samane 
'pi  retah-prabhavatve  'rvdksrotastvena  manushyatvam  putratvam  cha  sydt\ 
tathd  cha  "Krishms  tu  hhagavdn  svayam "  iti  irimad-bhdgmatoktih 
sangachhate  \  na  cha  ke&oddhdrandt  Krishnasydpy  amsatvam  pratlyate 
Hi  iidchyam  \  keiasya  dehdvayavatvdlhdvdt  |  tasmdd  Namuchi-badhe 
kartavye  yathd  apdm  phene  vcy'rasya  pra/oekah  evam  Devakl-Rohinyor 
jathare  pravese  kartamye  kekadmayena  dvara-bhutena  hhagavatah  kdrts- 
nyena  eva  dvirhhdvah  eshfavyah  iti  yuktam  | 

"Here  the  two  hairs  are  of  the  nature  of  seed  productive  of  Balarama 
and  Krishna,  just  as  in  the  case  of  the  Pandavas,  [and  this  expression  is 
employed]  for  the  sake  of  conformity  to  what  had  preceded,  since  it  is 
manifest  that  one  cannot  speak  of  production  from  the  seed  of  a  god. 
!For  this  reason  it  is  distinctly  said  that  the  hairs  entered  into  Devaki 
and  Eohinl  [the  mothers],  and  not  into  Vasudeva  [the  father].  But 
such  being  the  case,  according  to  the  process  of  derivation  described 
in  the  Yeda,  that  '  rain  is  the  seed  of  the  gods,  and  plants  are  the  seed 
of  rain,'  etc.,  these  two  persons  also  (Balarama  and  Krishna)  wiU  be 
mediately  the  offspring  of  the  deity,  just  as  is  the  case  with  ourselves 
and  other  beings.  And  thus Рђћ since  '  this  substance  of  the  different 
incarnations  is  an  undecaying  seed,'Рёб Рђћ it  would  be  opposed  to  that 

""  The  MS.  in  the  E.  I.  Office  Library  reads  avaiya-vaktavyatvat  \ 
288  I  put  these  words  between  inverted  commas,  as  they  appear  to  be  a  metrical 
quotation,  though  I  am  not  aware  whence  it  is  derived. 


INDRA  STRIKES  OFF  NAMUCHI'S  HEAD  WITH  FOAM.       261 

declaration  to  predicate  of  the  deity  that  he  is  literally  the  seed  of  the 
fish,  and  other  incarnations.  Further,  although  hairs  and  seed  spring 
equally  from  the  hody,  yet  in*  the  case  of  production  from  seed, 
humanity  and  sonship  will  arise  after  the  manner  of  the  inferior 
animals.  And  thus  the  saying  of  the  Bhagavata,  that  '  Krishna  is  the 
Lord  himself,'  is  not  contradicted.  And  it  must  not  be  said  that  from 
a  hair  being  plucked  out,  Krishna  also  is  shown  to  be  only  a  portion 
[of  the  deity];  for  a  hair  is  not  a  part  of  the  body.  "Wherefore,  just 
as,  when  [the  demon}  Namuchi  was  to  be  slain,  the  thunderbolt  [of 
Indra]  entered  into  the  foam  of  the  waters, '''┬░  so  when  an  entrance 

'"  I  am  indebted  to  Dr.  Aufrecht  for  pointing  out  to  me  the  legend  to  whicU 
reference  is  here  made,  tiz.  that  mentioned  in  R.V.  Tiii.  14,  13:  Apam  phenena 
Namucheh  sirah  Jndrodmartayah  \  visvah  yad  ajayah  spridhah  \  "  Then,  Indra,  didst 
strike  off  the  head  of  Namuohi  with  the  foam  of  the  waters,  when  thou  didst  vanquish 
all  opponents."  On  this  Sayana  tells  the  following  story ;  Ttira  Mia  Indro  'swan 
jitva  Namuchim  asuram  grahitmh  na  iaSaka  \  sa  cha  yitdhyamanas  tenaam-ena  ja- 
grihe  \  sa  eha  grihltam  Indram  mam  avoehat  "  tvain  visrijami  ralrav  ahni  cha  stish- 
ienardrena  chdyudhma  yadi  math  na  himsir"  iti  \  sa  Indras  tena  visrishtah  sann 
ahoratrayoh  sandhaa  s'ushimrdra-vilakshanena  phenena  tasya  s'iras  chichheda  \  ayam 
artho  ' syam  pratipadyate  \  He  Indra  apampliemna  vajrlbhutena  Namucher  Asurasya 
dirah  udavartayah  \  "Formerly  Indira  having  conquered  the  Asuras,  was  unable  to 
seize  the  Asura  Namuchi;  and  fighting,  was  seized  by  the  Asura.  The  latter  said 
to  Indra,  whom  he  had  seized :  '  I  release  thee  if  thou  wilt  not  smite  me  by  night, 
or  by  day,  with  a  dry  or  a  wet  weapon,'  Indra,  being  released  by  him,  cut  off  his 
head  at  the  junction  of  day  and  night  with  foam,  which  is  different  both  ftom  dry 
and  wet.  This  purport  is  set  forth  in  this  verse."  See  also  S'atapatha  Brahmana, 
xii.  7,  3,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  94;  and  also  Taittiriya 
Brahmana,  i.  7,  1,  6  f. :  Indro  Vritram  hatva  asuran  parabhavya  Namuchim  asuram 
na  alabhaia  |  tarn  S'aehya  'grihnat  \  tau  samalahhetam  \  so  'smad  abhisunaiaro  'bhavat  \ 
so  'bravit  "  sandhaih  sandadhavahai  |  atha  tva  vah  {ova  .*)  arakshyami  \  na  ma  sush- 
kena  na  ardrena  hanah  na  diva  na  naktam  "  iti  |  sa  etam  apam  phcnam  asinchat  | 
na  vai  esha  a'ushico  na  ardrah  \  vyushta  asld  anuditah  auryah  \  na  vai  etad  diva  na 
naktam  \  taaya  etaamin  hke  apam  phenena  sirah  uda/vartayat  \  "  Indra,  after  having 
slain  Vritra  and  defeated  the  Asuras,  could  not  catch  Namuchi,  who  was  one  of  that 
race.  He  (Namuchi)  captured  him  (Indra)  with  S'achi  [or  by  force].  These  two 
laid  hold  of  each  other.  The  one  (Namuchi)  was  stronger  than  the  other  (Indra). 
He  (Namuchi)  said :  'Let  us  make  an  agreement;  then  I  shall  let  thee  go.  Promise 
that  thou  wilt  smite  me  neither  with  dry  nor  wet,  neither  by  day  nor  by  night.'  He 
(Indra)  anointed  (the  thunderbolt)  with  this  foam  of  the  waters,  which  was  neither 
dry  nor  wet.  It  was  twilight, Рђћ the  sun  not  risen ;  neither  day  nor  night.  He  smote 
off  his  head  with  the  foam  of  the  waters."  The  story  is  also  told  in  the  Indra-vijaya 
(published  by  Holtzmann),  w.  185  ff. ;  Mahabharata,  Udyoga-parvan,  vv.  320  ff. 

This  story  of  Indra  destroying  Namuchi  with  foam  is  again  told  in  the  Mahabharata, 
S'alya-parvan  (vv.  2434  ff.) :  Namuchir  Vasavad  bhltah  surya-raimim  aamavisat  | 
tenendrah  aakhyam  akarot  samayanehedatm  abrav'it  \  "  na  chardrena  na  duahkena  na 


262  aUOTATION  FEOM  THE  VISHNTJ  PXJEANA 

was  to  be  made  into  the  wombs  of  Derakt  and  Rohini,  the  manifesta- 
tion of  the  deity  in  all  his  plenitude  is  to  be  understood  as  effected 
through  the  medium  of  the  two  hairs." 

I  add  an  interesting  passage  from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i,  22,  36  ff., 
where  Vishnu  is  first  of  all  placed  on  a  level  with  Brahma  and  S'iya ; 
but  afterwards  declared  to  be  the  highest  form  of  Brahma  : 

36.  Bve  rupe  BrahmUnas  tasya  murtam  ohamurtam,  eva  cha  |  Ttshara.' 
Icshara-svarupe  te  sarva-ihuteshv  avasthite  \  37.  aksharam  paramam 
Brahma  ksharam  sarvam  idamjagat]  38.  eka-desa-sthitasyagner  jyotmd, 
vistarini  yatha  |  parasya  Brahmamh  iakUs  tathedam  akhilam  jagat  I 
39.  tatrathasanna-duratvdd  hahutva-svalpatamayah  \  jyotsnii-hhedo  'sti 
tachchhaktes  tadvad  Maitreya  vidyate  \  40.  Brahma-Vishnu- S'ivah 
hrahman  pradhanah  Brahma-kaktaydh  |  tatak  cha  devah  Maitreya  nyu- 
ndh  Yakshadayas  tatah  \  41.  Tato  manushyah  paiavo  mriga-pakshi- 
tarlsripah  \  nyunah  nyunatarai  ehaiva  vrihsha-gulmadayas  tatah  \  tad 
etad  akshayam  nityafh  jagad  mimi-varakhilam  \  mirhhava-tirolhava- 
janma-nasa-vihalpavat  |  42.  Sarva-iaMimayo  Vishnuh  svarupam  Brah- 
mamh param  \  murtam  yad  yogilhih  purvam  yogarambheshu  chintyate  \ 
43.  aalambano  mahdyogah  mvijo  yatra  samsthitah  \  manasy  avyahate 
samyag  yunjatdm  jdyate  mune\  44.  sa parah  swrva-kihtindm  Brahmanah 
aamanantarah  \  murta-lrahma  mahabhdga  sarva-lrahmamayo  Sdrih  | 
45.  tatra  sarvam  idam  protam  of  am  chaivdlchilam  jagat  \  tato  jagat  jagat 
tasmin  sajagaoh  chakhilam  mum  |  46.  hshardksharamayo  Vishnur  hibharty 
akhilam  isvarah  |  purushavydhritamayam  Ihushandstra-sva/rupavat  \ 

ratrau  mpi  chahani  \  hadhishyamy  asura-s'reshtha  sakhe  satyena  te  s'ape"  \  evam  sa 
kritva  samayam  drishtva  nTharam  Isvarah  \  chichhedasya  siro  rajann  apam  phenena 
Vasavah  \  tach  chhiro  Namuches  chhinnam  prishthatah  S'ahram  anviyat  \  bho  mitra- 
hana  papefi  hruvanam  S'ahram  antihdt  |  evam  sa  dirasa  tena  chodyamanah  punah 
punah  I  Pitamahaya  santaptah  etam  artham  nyavedayat  \  tarn  abravTt  loka-gurur 
arunayam  yathavidhi  [  ishtvopasprisa  devendra  tJrthe  papa-hhayapalie  |  **  NamucM 
being  afraid  of  Indra,  entered  into  a  ray  of  the  sun.  Indra  formed  a  friendship  with 
him,  and  uttered  this  agreement :  '  I  shall  neither  slay  thee  with  wet  nor  with  dry, 
neither  in  the  night  nor  in  the  day ;  I  swear  in  truth  to  thee,  my  friend,  thou  most 
eminent  of  Asuras.'  Having  made  this  agreement,  the  lord  Vasava  (Indra),  he- 
holding  a  fog,  [when  it  was  neither  night  nor  day],  cut  off  his  head  with  the  foam 
of  the  waters  [which  was  neither  wet  nor  dry].  That  head  of  Namuohi,  after  being 
cut  off,  followed  close  after  Indra,  calling  out,  '  0  wicked  slayer  of  thy  friend.' 
Being  thus  again  and  again  pressed  by  the  head,  and  being  distressed,  he  [Indra] 
represented  the  matter  to  Pltamaha  (Brahma).  The  lord  (or  teacher)  of  the  world 
(Brahma)  said  to  him:  'Having  sacrificed,  touch  [the  waters]  in  the  Aruna,  that 
sacred  spot,  which  removes  sin  and  fear,'  "  etc. 


EEOAEDING  THE  DIFFERENT  ENERGIES  OF  BRAHMA.      263 

"  Of  that  Brahma  there  are  two  conditions,  one  possessed  of  form, 
the  other  formless.  These  decaying  and  undeoaying  states  exist  in  all 
creatures.  The  undecaying  is  the  highest  Brahma;  the  decaying  is 
this  entire  universe.  Just  as  light  is  diffused  from  a  fire  which  is  con- 
fined to  one  spot,  so  is  this  whole  universe  the  [diffused]  energy  of 
the  supreme  Brahma.  And  as  light  shows  a  difference,  greater  or 
less,  according  to  its  nearness  or  distance  from  the  fire,  so  is  there  a 
variation  in  the  energy  of  Brahma.  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  S'iva  are  his 
chief  energies.  The  deities  are  inferior  to  them;  the  Takshas,  etc.,  to 
the  deities ;  men,  cattle,  wild  animals,  birds  and  reptiles  to  the  Takshas, 
etc. ;  and  trees  and  plants  are  the  lowest  of  all  [these  energies].  This 
entire  universe,  which,  0  most  excellent  Muni,  is  subject  to  appearance 
and  disappearance,  to  production,  to  destruction,  and  to  change,  is  yet 
undecaying  and  eternal.  Vishnu,  containing  all  the  energies,  is  the 
highest  form  of  Brahma,  which,  at  the  commencement  of  their  ab- 
straction, is  contemplated  by  Togins  as  invested  with  shape.  Directed  to 
him,  the  great  union  {mahdyoga)  with  its  basis,  and  its  germs,  is  produced 
in  the  undistracted  minds  of  the  devotees.  Hari  (Vishnu)  is  the  highest 
and  most  immediate  of  all  the  energies  of  Brahma,  the  embodied 
Brahma,  formed  of  the  whole  of  Brahma.  On  him  this  entire  universe 
is  woven  and  interwoven :  from  him  is  the  world,  and  the  world  is  in 
him;  and  he  is  the  whole  universe.  Vishnu,  the  lord,  consisting  of 
what  is  perishable  as  well  as  what  is  imperishable,  sustains  everything, 
both  Purusha  and  Prakriti,  in  the  form  of  his  ornaments  and  weapons." 
[The  writer  goes  on  to  explain  what  is  meant  by  the  last  clause. 
Vishnu  bears  or  wears  Purusha  as  the  Xaustubha  gem,  Prakriti  as  the 
S'rJvatsa,  etc.     See  "Wilson's  translation,  vol.  ii.  p.  94  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.] 

In  the  earlier  part  of  the  same  section  (Wilson,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  86  f.)  it 
is  said  that  all  kings,  whether  of  men,  gods,  Daityas,  Danavas,  or 
Eakshasas,  are  portions  of  Vishnu. 

VII.  In  several  of  the  passages  which  have  been  already  cited  in 
the  preceding  pages,  Vishnu  has  been  identified  with  the  supreme 
spirit  (see  above,  pp.  38,  50,  181).  I  shall  now  proceed  to  adduce 
some  others  of.the  same  kind  from  the  Mahabharata.  In  the  S'anti- 
parvan,  vv.  1500  ff.  Tudhishthira  says  to  Krishna  : 

Tava  Krishna  prasddena  nayena  cha  halena  cha  |  huddhyd  cha  Yadu- 
idrdula  tathd  vikramanena  cha  \  punah  prdptam  idam  rdjyam  pitri- 


264  PASSAGES  IN  'WHICH  KRISHNA  IS 

paitamaham  maya  \  namas  te  Pundankaksha  puna}}  pmut/r  arindama  \ 
tvam  eTcam  dhuh  Purmshafh  team  dhuh  Sdttvatdm  gatim  \  ndmahhis  tvdm 
hahuvidhaih  stuvanti  prayatdh  dvijdh  \  viivakarman  namas  te  'stu  vihdt- 
man  vUva-samhhava  |  Vishno  jiahno  Sare  Krishna  Vaikuntha  Puru- 
shottama  \  Aditydh  sdptadhd  tvam  tu  purdne  garhhatdm  gatah  \  Priini- 
garihas  tvam  evaikas  triyugam  tvdm  vadanty  api  \  Suchisranah  Hrishi- 
Jceio  ghritachir  hamsah  uchyase  |  trichakshuh  S'amlhur  ekas  tvam  vibhur 
Bdmxtdaro  'pi  cha  |  Vardho  'gnir  vrihadhhaniir  vrishahhas  Tdrkshya- 
lahshanah  |  ....  1514.  Yonis  tvam  asya  pralayaicha  Krishna  tvam 
evedam  srijasi  viivam  agre  \  viivanchedam  tvad-vaae  viivayone  namo  'stu 
te  sdrnga-chakrasi-pdne  | 

"  By  thy  favour,  Krishna,  chief  of  the  Tadus,  and  policy,  and 
power,  and  understanding,  and  valour,  I  have  recovered  this  kingdom 
of  my  father  and  grandfathers.  Adoration  be.  to  thee,  lotus-eyed, 
subduer  of  thy  foes,  again  and  again.  Thee  alone  men  call  Purusha  : 
thee  alone  they  call  the  refuge  of  the  Satvats.  Devout  twice-born 
men  laud  thee  by  names  of  various  kinds.  Grlory  be  to  thee,  thou 
maker  of  all,  thou  soul  of  all,  thou  source  of  all,  Vishnu,  conqueror, 
Hari,  Krishna,  Vaikuntha,  chief  of  spirits  (or  males).  Of  old  thou 
didst  become  the  sevenfold  offspring  of  Aditi.^^"  Thou  alone  art  Pris- 
nigarbha:  they  also  call  thee  [him  who  exists  in]  the  three  ages 
(yugas).  Thou  art  called  Suohilravas,  Hrishikefei,  Ghritachi,  and 
Hansa.  Thou  alone  art  the  three-eyed  S'ambhu  (Mahadeva)  and  Da- 
modara,  the  pervading,  the  Boar,  Agni,  Vribadbhanu,'"  the  BuU,  he 
whose  sign  is  Tarkshya  (Garuda)."  A  long  list  of  other  titles  then 
follows,  concluding  with  these  words :  "  Thou  art  the  source  and  the 
destruction  of  this  universe,  Krishna :  it  is  thou  who  createst  it  in  the 
beginning,  and  it  is  all  in  thy  power,  thou  source  of  all  things :  glory 
be  to  thee  who  wieldest  the  bow,  the  disous,  and  the  sword." 

A  little  further  on,  at  vv.  1604  ff.,  a  long  hymn  of  Bhishma  to 
Krishna  is  given,  in  which  the  following  lines  occur : 

1609  I  Tasmin  viivdni  bhutani  tishthanti  cha  viianti  eha  |  gum- 
hhutdni  hhuteie  sufre  mani-gandh  iva  \  yasmin  nitye  tate  tantau  dridhe 
Brag  iva  tishthati  \  sad-asad  grathitam  visvam  vihdnge  viiva-karmani  \ 

'">  This,  I  suppose,  refers  to  the  Adityas  being  in  the  Veda  spoken  of  as  only 
seven  in  number.     See  above,  pp.  114  ff. 
28'  A  name  of  Agni. 


IDENTIFIED  WITH  THE  SUPEEME  SPIRIT.  265 

Ha/rim  sahasra-iirasam  sahasra-charanehhanam  \  sahasra-hahu-muku- 
tam  Bdhasra-vadanojjvalam  |  prahwr  Narayanam  devam  yam  viivasya 
parayanam  |  nmyasam  anlyamsam  sthcwishtham  aha  sthainyasam  \  gari- 
yasam  gwrishtham  cha  sreshtham  cha  sreyasain,  api  \  yam  vaheshv  anuva- 
keshu  nishatsupanishatsu  cha  \  grinanti  satya-harmanam  satyam  satyeshw 

sdmasu  \  ityadi  \ 1616.  Sarvatma  sarva-vit  sarvah  sa/rvajnah 

sarva-hhavanah  \  yam  devam  Bevahi  devi  Vasudevad  cyljanat  \  Bhaumasya 
Brahmano  guptyai  diptam  Agnim  waranih  |  .  .  .  .  1622.  Yasmin  lokah 
sphurantlme  jah  kakwiayo  yatha  \ 

"  In  whom,  the  lord  of  beings,  all  beings,  existing  as  his  qualities, 
abide  and  enter,  like  gems  [strung]  upon  a  thread :  upon  whom,  the 
universal-membered  artificer  of  all  things,  extended  as  a  strong  and 
eternal  thread,  the  universe,  existent  and  non-existent,  abides,  arranged, 
like  a  chaplet ;  Hari,  the  thousand-headed,  thousand-footed,  thousand- 
eyed,  with  a  thousand  arms  and  diadems,  resplendent  with  a  thousand 
faces,  whom  they  caU.  Narayana,  the  god  who  transcends  all,  the 
minutest  of  the  minute,  the  vastest  of  the  vast,  the  greatest  of  the 
great,  the  most  eminent  of  the  eminent,  whom,  true,  and  true  in  act, 
they  celebrate  in  '  vakas,'  '  anuvakas,'  in  '  nishads,'  '"'^  and  in  '  upa- 
nishads,'  and  in  true  '  sama'-hymns,  .  .  .  1616.  the  soul  of  all,  the  omni- 
scient, the  all,  the  all-knowing,  the  producer  of  all,  the  god  whom 
the  goddess  Devaki  bore  to  Vasudeva,  for  the  preservation  of  the 
terrestrial  deity  {i.e.  the  Vedas,  Brahmans  and  sacrifices,  Comm.)  as 
Aragi  (the  wood  used  for  kindling  fire),^*'  produced  the  flaming  Agni. 
....  1622.  In  whom  these  worlds  flutter,  like  birds  in  water,"  etc. 


'5'  This  is  the  only  place  in  which  I  have  ever  met  vrith  this  word.  I  am  unable 
to  say  whether  Indian  literature  contains  any  such  writings  as  '  nishads,'  or  whether 
the  term  is  a  purely  fictitious  one,  invented  hy  the  author  of  this  passage  to  denote 
a  principal  and  original  set  of  writings  to  which  the  TJpanishads  may  have  formed, 
in  his  idea,  a  secondai-y  and  supplemental  class,  as  the  Upapuranas  do  to  the  Puranas. 
Nllakantha,  one  of  the  commentators  (whether  conjecturally,  or  on  good  grounds,  I 
cannot  say),  explains  nishatsu  as  meaning  karmangady-avabaddha-devatadi-jnana- 
vakyeshu,  "works  treating  of  the  knowledge  of  the  deities,  etc.,  connected  with  the 
ceremonial  part  of  the  Veda,"  etc.  The  TJpanishads  "  reveal  the  knowledge  of  soul 
alone"  (kevalatma-jnSpaka-vakyeshu).  Vakas,  according  to  the  same  authority, 
"make  known  ceremonies  generally"  (samanyatah  karma-prakas'akeshu) ;  while  anu- 
vakas are  "texts  of  the  Brahmanas,  explanatory  of  the  sense  of  the  mantras,  or  Vedio 
hymns"  (mantrartha-vivarana-bhuteshu  brahmaga-vakyeshu). 

┬╗63  See  the  5th  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  208  ff. 


266  BRAHMA  AND  EUDEA  PEODUCED  FROM  VISHNU. 

In  the  following  passage,  also  from  the  S'anti-parvan,  Krishna  identifies 
himself  with  the  supreme  Spirit,  and  represents  Brahma  and  Mahadeva 
as  having  proceeded  from  him.  In  it  the  writer  likewise  endeavours 
to  explain  away  the  efiiect  of  certain  texts  in  other  parts  of  the  poem 
(see  above,  pp.  185-204),  in  which  Krishna  is  related  to  have 
worshipped  Mahadeva,  and  which  were  no  doubt  felt  to  be  inconsistent 
with  the  supreme  deity  of  the  former.  The  difficulty  is  attempted  to 
be  overcome  by  the  explanation  that  in  worshipping  Rudra,  he  was 
only  worshipping  himself.  In  the  verses  13133  ff.  Arjuna  asks 
Krishna  to  interpret  the  different  appellations  which  had  been  applied 
to  him  in  the  Vedas  and  Puranas ;  and  this  Krishna  accordingly 
proceeds  to  do,  remarking  by  the  way  that  Arjuna  had  been  of  old 
declared  to  be  his  own  half"  {tvam  hi  me  'rdham  smritah  pura). 
Narayana  {i.e.  Vishnu),  he  says,  was  the  source  of  all  things,  and  from 
him  Brahma  and  S'iva  were  produced ;  the  one  from  his  good  pleasure, 
the  other  from  his  anger  (13140.  Yasya  prasddajo  Brahma.  Rudrakcha 
krodha-Bamlhavah).  He  then  goes  on  (13144):  Brahme  ratri-hshaye 
prapte  tasya  hy  amita-tejasah  [  prasadat  pradurahhavat  padmam  padma- 
nihhelcshana  \  tato  Brahma  samdbhavat  sa  tasyaiva  prasadajah  |  ahnah 
Tcshaye  laldtdcJieha  suto  devasya  vai  tatha  |  krodhdmshtasya  sanjajne 
Rudrah  mmhara-lcdrakah  \  etau  dvau  vihudha-^reshthau  prasdda-krodha- 
jdv  uhhau  |  tad-ddeUta-panthdnau  srishti-samhdra-kdrakau  |  nimitta- 
mdtram  tdv  atra  sarva-prdni-vara-pradau  \  hapardl  jatilo  mundah 
ima^dna-griha-sevakah  \  ugra-vrata-dha/ro  Rudro  yogi  parama-ddrunah  | 
I)a,hsha-hratu-harahhaiva  Bhaga-netra-ha/ras  tathd  |  Ndrdyandtmako 
jneyah  Pdndaveya  yuge  yuge  \  tasmin  hi  pujyamane  vai  deva-deve  Mahe- 
iva/re  \  sampujito  Ihavet  Pdrtha  devo  Ndrdyanah  prahhuh  \  aham  dtmd 
hi  lokdndm  viheshdm  Pdndu-nandana  \  13152.  tasmdd  dtmdnam  evdgre 
Rudrdm  sampujaydmy  aham  I  yady  aham  ndrchayeyam  vai  lidndm 
varadam  S'ivam  |  dtmdnam  ndrchayet  kaiohid  iti  me  Ihdvitdtmanah  \ 
mayd  pramdnaih  hi  kritam  lokah  samanuvartate  \  pramdnani  hi pujydni 
tatas  tam  pujaydmy  aham  \  yas  tarn  vetti  sa  mdm  vetti  yo  'nu  tarn  sa  hi 
mdm  ami  \  Rudro  Kdrdyanak  chaiva  sattvam  ekam  dmidhdhritam  \  lohe 
charati  Kaunteya  vyakti-stham  sarva-karmasu  \  na  hi  me  kenachid  deyo 
varah  Pdndava-nandana  \  iti  sanchintya  manasd  purdnam  Rudram  Uva- 
ram  \  putrdrtham  drddhitavdn  aham  dtmdnam  dtmand  \  na  hi  Vishnuh 
'"^  See  the  other  passages  about  their  identity,  or  intimate  union,  above,  pp.  228  ff. 


BRAHMA,  VISHNU,  EUDEA,  AND  THE  THEEE  GUNAS.       267 

prmamati  JcasmaioMt  vibuihaya  cha  \  rile  dtindnam  eveti  tato  Budram 
hhafamy  aham  |  sabrahmalcah  sarudraicha  sendrdh  devah  saharshihhi^  | 
archayanti  sura-sreshtham  devam  Narayanan  Sa/rim  \  Ihavishyatam 
vartatdncha  bhutdndnchaiva  Bhdrata  \  sarveshdm  agranir  Vishnuh 
sevyah  puj'yahJia  nityasah  ityddi  \ 

"  Wlien  the  end  of  Brahma's  night  had  arrived,  there  sprang  from 
the  good  pleasure  of  that  being  of  boundless  power  a  lotus,  0  thou 
whose  eyes  are  like  a  lotus.  From  it  was  produced  Brahma,  who  was 
the  offspring  of  his  (Vishnu's)  good  pleasure ;  and  at  the  end  of  the 
day  Eudra  the  destroyer  was  bom  from  the  forehead  of  the  god  when 
he  was  possessed  with  anger.  These  two  eminent  gods,  produced  [the 
one]  from  his  good  pleasure,  [the  other]  from  his  anger,'^'  have  their 

'65  I  quote  the  following  from  the  Maitrl  tJpauishad,  6th  Prapathaka :  Tamo  vai 
idam  agre  asld  ekam  |  tat  pare  ayat  \  txt  tat  parena  iritam  vishamatvam  prayati  \ 
etad  rupam,  vai  rajah  \  tad  rajah  Ichalv  tritam  vishamatvam  prayati  |  etad  vai 
sattvasya  rupam  \  tat  sattvam,  eva  iritam  rasah  samprasravat  \  so  'ms'o  'yam  yas 
oheta-matrah  pratipurushah  khetrajnah  sanTcalpadhyavasayabhimana-lingah  |  Fraja- 
patir  Vis'va  ity  asya  prug  uktah  etas  tanavah  \  atha  yo  ha  Ichalu  vava  asya  tamaso 
'mso  'sau  sa  brahmacharino  yo  'yam  Mudrah  |  atha  yo  ha  khalu  vava  asya  rajaso 
'mio  'sau  sa  brahmacharino  yo  'yam  Brahma  |  atha  yo  ha  Ichalu  vava  asya  sattviJco 
'ihso  'sau  sa  brahmacharino  yo  'yam  Vishnuh  |  sa  vai  eaha  ekas  tridha  bhuto  'shtadha 
ekadasadha  dvadasadha  aparimitadha  va  udbhutah  udbhutatvad  bhutam  bhuteshu  cha- 
rati  pravishtah  sa  bhutanam  adhipatir  iabhUva  \  ity  asa  atma  antar  bahiS  cha  antar 
bahis  cha  \  This  passage  is  translated  as  follows  hy  Professor  Cowell:  "Verily  this 
was  at  the  first  darkness  alone ;  it  ahode  in  the  Supreme ;  then,  heing  set  in  motion 
hy  the  Supreme,  it  passes  into  inequality.  This  condition  becomes  activity  [rajas] : 
this  activity,  being  set  in  motion,  passes  into  inequality.  This  becomes  the  con- 
dition of  Goodness.  This  goodness  alone  was  set  in  motion;  and  Flavour  flowed 
forth.  This  is  a  portion  [of  the  Soul]  which  is  only  measured  by  the  Soul,  reflected 
in  each  individual,  cognizant  of  the  body,  and  possessing  as  its  signs  volition,  ascer- 
tainment, and  consciousness.  Prajapati,  Vis'wa Рђћ these  and  the  like,  before  mentioned, 
are  its  forms.  As  for  its  darkness-characterized"  Itamasah]  "portion,  that,  0 
ye  students,  is  the  same  as  Eudra;  as  for  its  activity-characterized"  \rajasah'\ 
"  portion,  that,  0  students,  is  the  same  as  Brahman ;  and  as  for  its  goodness-cha- 
racterized" [sattvikali]  "portion,  that,  0  students,  is  the  same  as  Vishnu.  He  truly 
is  one,  existing  as  threefold,  as  eightfold,  as  elevenfold,  as  twelvefold,  as  infinite  fold ; 
he  is  manifested  everywhere ;  and,  from  -being  thus  manifested,  he  is  the  Being ;  he 
enters  and  pervades  all  beings,  he  is  the  lord  of  beings.  Thus  he,  the  Soul,  is 
within  and  without,  within  and  without." 

In  the  Vayu-purana,  sect.  66,  as  quoted  by  Professor  Aufrecht  in  his  "  Catalogus 
Codicum  Sanscriticorum,"  p.  56b,  it  is  declared  by  Suta  that  there  is  but  one  God, 
who  assumed  three  forms  [rajasi,  sattvikl,  tamasT  tanus)  for  the  creation,  preservation, 
and  destruction  of  the  world.  In  the  Deva-Bhagavata  Purana,  book  i.,  sect.  4, 
V.  46,  quoted  in  the  same  Catalogue,  p.  80a,  N'irada  tells  Vyasa  that  Vishnu  had  once 
spoken  to  Brahma-as  follows :  Srashta  tvampalakas  chaham  Saral}  samhara-karakah  | 


268         KRISHNA  EXPLAINS  WHY  HE  -WORSHIPPED  S'lVA. 

courses  prescribed  by  him,  [and  are]  the  accomplishers  [respectively] 
of  creation  and  destruction.  In  this,  these  bestowers  of  boons  on  all> 
creatures  are  merely  instrumental  causes.  Rudra,  with  braided  hair 
and  matted  locks,  shaven,  the  frequenter  of  cemeteries,  the  performer 
of  awful  rites,  the  devotee,  the  very  terrible,  he  who  swept  away 
Datsha's  sacrifice,  and  put  out  Bhaga's  eyes,  is  to  be  understood  by 
thee  to  possess  in  every  age  the  nature  of  Narayana.  For  when  that 
god  of  gods  Mahesvara  is  worshipped,  then,  son  of  Pritha,  the  god 
Narayana,  the  lord,  will  also  be  worshipped.  I  am  the  soul  of  all  the 
worlds.  13152.  It  was  therefore  myself  whom  I  formerly  worshipped 
as  Eudra.  If  I  were  not  to  worship  Isana,  the  boon-bestowing  8'iva, 
no  one  would  worship  myself  [or  the  Soul] Рђћ ^this  is  [the  reflection  made] 
by  me  who  am  contemplative  in  spirit.  An  authoritative  example  is 
set  by  me  [which]  the  world  follows.'*'  Authoritative  examples  are 
to  be  reverenced  :  hence  I  reverence  him  (S'iva).  He  who  knows  Mm 
knows  me  ;  he  who  loves  him  loves  me.''*'  Eudra  and  Narayana,  one 
essence,  divided  into  two,  operate  in  the  world,  in  a  manifested  form, 
in  all  acts.  Eeflecting  in  my  mind  that  no  boon  could  be  conferred 
upon  me  by  any  one,  I  [yet]  adored  the  ancient  Eudra,  the  lord,  [that 
is]  I,  with  myself  adored  myself,  to  obtain  a  son  (see  p.  195).  For 
Vishnu  does  not  do  homage  to  any  god,  excepting  himself:  hence  I 
[in  this  sense]  worship  Eudra.  The  gods,  including  Brahma,  Eudra, 
and  Indra,  together  with  the  rishis,  worship  the  god  Narayana,  Hari, 
the  most  eminent  of  the  deities.  Yishnu  the  chief  of  all  who  shall  be, 
are,  or  have  been,  is  to  be  served  and  worshipped  continually." 

In  the  following  passage  (Anu^asana-parvan,  vv.  6295  if.),  some 

kritah  Icmeti  sa  tarJcah  TcriyaU  veda-paragaih  \  47  |  Ja^at-sanjanane  i'aktis  tvm/i 
vartatirajasl  \  sattviki  mayi  Sndre  eha  tamast  parikTrtita  |  48  |  taya  virahitm  tvmk 
iu  no,  hy  etat  karcme  prabhuh  \  naham palayitvm  iaktah  aamhartum  napi  S'ankarah  \ 
49  I  tad-adhmah  vayam  aarve  vartamah  satatam  vibho  \  46.  "  The  question  by  what 
thou  art  made  the  creator,  I  the  preserver,  and  Hara  the  destroyer,  is  proposed  hy  those 
who  have  studied  the  Veda.  47.  In  thee  there  exists  a  passionate  [or  '  active,'  as 
Professor  Cowell  translates  raj'astl  energy,  [which  operates]  in  the  production  of  the 
world,  in  me  there  is  declared  to  he  a  pure  Isattviki],  and  in  Eudra  a  dark  [tdmasi], 
energy.  48.  If  we  were  destitute  of  these  several  energies,  thou  wouldest  be  unable 
to  create,  or  X  to  preserve,  or  S'ankara  to  destroy.  49.  We  are  continually  dependent 
upon  these  our  [respective  energies]," 

'"*  See  above,  p.  53,  the  quotation  from  the  Bhagavad-gita,  iii.  21  ff. 

^*'  Compare  a  similar  sentiment  in  p.  230, 


DISPLAY  OF  KRISHNA'S  GLOET.  269 

parts  of  which  may  be  later  interpolations,  Krishna  is  described  as 
performing  a  ceremony  to  obtain  a  son,  at  the  same  time  that  he  is 
represented  as  the  supreme  deity.  BhTshma,  at  the  request  of  Tudhish- 
thira,  tells  him  a  story  illustrative  of  the  glory  of  Krishna.  He  states 
that  Krishna  had  performed  a  ceremonial  (vrata)  of  twelve  years' 
duration  (6397),  which  many  rishis  came  to  witness.  In  presence  of 
these  rishis  flame  issued  from  the  mouth  of  Krishna,  which  set  on  fire 
the  mountain  where  he  was,  and  burnt  up  everything  on  it ;  and 
having  done  so,  came  back,  and  submissively  touched  his  feet.  The 
mountain  was  afterwards  restored  to  its  natural  condition.  Seeing  the 
rishis  astonished  at  this  display,  Krishna  asts  the  cause  of  their 
surprise.  They  request  that  he  who  is  the  creator  and  destroyer  of 
all  things  will  explain  to  them  the  phenomenon  which  they  have  just 
witnessed.  He  replies  that  this  was  the  power  {ty'as)  of  Tishnu 
which  had  issued  from  his  mouth.  He  had  come,  he  informs  them, 
to  this  mountain  to  perform  a  ceremony  with  the  view  of  obtaining 
a  son  like  himself  (6320) ;  and  the  soul  residing  in  his  body  had 
become  fire,  and  blazed  forth,  and  had  gone  to  see  the  parent  of  the 
world,  when  Mahadeva  had  declared  that  a  son  should  be  created  for 
him  out  of  the  half  of  his  power  {tejas).  Krishna  next  calls  on  the 
rishis  to  tell  him  any  wonders  they  had  seen  or  heard  of  in  heaven  or 
on  earth.  The  rishis  then,  after  celebrating  Krishna's  praises,  appoint 
Narada  to  describe  the  wonders  which  had  been  witnessed  by  the 
rishis  on  the  Himalaya  mountain,  when  they  had  gone  thither  on  a 
pilgrimage  to  the  holy  places.  Narada  accordingly  proceeds  to  give  an 
account  of  a  long  conversation  which  had  taken  place  between  Maha- 
deva and  his  wife  Uma  or  Parvati,  the  daughter  of  the  Himalaya. 
Mahadeva,  it  appears,  had  been  performing  austerity  {tapas,  vv.  6340, 
6348)  on  that  mountain,  where  he  was  surrounded  by  his  attendant 
demons  (Bhutas)  and  by  the  nymphs  (Apsarases),  etc.,  etc.  While  he 
was  sitting  in  that  delightful  region,  clothed  in  tigers'  and  lions'  skins, 
with  a  serpent  for  his  sacrificial  cord  (6355  f.),  his  wife  Uma  comes 
up,  clothed  in  the  same  style  as  her  husband,  with  her  attendant 
demonesses  {Bhuta-stri-gam),  and  playfully  puts  her  hands  over  his 
eyes.  The  effects  of  this  act  are  tremendous.  Suddenly  the  world 
becomes  darkened,  lifeless,  and  destitute  of  oblations  and  vashatkaras, 
etc.     This  gloom,  however,  is  as  suddenly  dispelled  by  a  great  flame 


270         CONVERSATION  BETWEEN  MAHADEVA  AND  UMl,  ETC. 

Рќаwhich  bursts  from  Mahadeva's  forehead,  in  which  a  third  eye,  luminous 
as  the  sun,  was  formed  (6367).  By  the  fire  of  this  eye  the  mountain 
was  scorched  and  everything  upon  it  consumed.  TJma  hereupon  stands 
in  a  submissive  attitude  before  her  lord,  when  in  a  moment  her  parent, 
the  Himalaya,  is  restored  to  his  former  condition.  A  long  conversation 
then  ensues  between  Mahadeva  and  "Uma.  The  latter  inquires  why 
Mahadeva's  third  eye  had  been  formed  (6379),  and  puts  a  number  of 
questions  about  himself,  and  the  various  duties  of  men  (6412  ff.),  all 
of  which  he  answers.  Mahadeva  next,  in  his  turn,  asks  Uma  to 
describe  the  duties  of  women.  She  says  she  will  consult  the  rivers 
in  regard  to  the  question.  The  Granga  replies  on  their  behalf  that 
TJma  herself  should  furnish  the  answer,  which,  as  Bhishma  tells  us, 
she  accordingly  does  (6780  ff.).  Bhishma  then  informs  us  (v.  6804) 
that,  at  the  close  of  TJma's  discourse,  Mahadeva  dismissed  his  at- 
tendant demons,  with  the  rivers,  nymphs,  and  celestial  choristers 
(Gandharvas).  We  might  have  expected  here  that  Narada  (who 
had  hitherto  been  the  narrator  of  what  was  done  and  said  on  the 
Himalaya)  would  have  finished  his  account  of  all  that  occurred 
there,  without  the  introduction  of  the  other  interlocutor;  but,  as 
I  have  said,  he  is  interrupted  by  Bhishma  at  v.  6804,  and  afterwards 
introduced  again  at  v.  6870.  Whatever  may  be  the  reason,  we  are 
first  told  by  Bhishma  (v.  6804)  that  the  rishis  now  requested  Maha- 
deva to  describe  to  them  the  greatness  of  Vasudeva  (Krishna).  At  the 
close  of  Mahadeva's  discourse,  Narada  is  again  abruptly  introduced 
(6870),  and  relates  that  a  great  sound  of  thunder  accompanied  with 
lightning  was  then  heard,  and  the  sky  became  covered  with  thick 
clouds  and  veiled  in  darkness.  Mahadeva  and  his  attendant  demons 
were  now  no  longer  visible  to  the  munis.  (The  departure  of  the 
demons  and  the  other  classes  of  beings  had,  however,  been  previously 
told  in  V.  6804.)  The  darkness  then  suddenly  clears  away.  Narada 
next  observes  to  Krishna  (6875)  that  he  was  the  eternal  being,  one 
with  Brahma,  about  whom  they  had  been  instructed  on  the  mountain. 
At  the  close  of  Narada's  discourse,  the  rishis  express  their  devotion  to 
Krishna  (6879  ff.),  and  say  that  as  he  knew  all  things,  he  had  no 
occasion  to  ask  them  for  any  information  such  as  had  been  given  at  his 
request.  They  end  by  giving  him  what,  after  this  avowal  of  his  om- 
niscience, was  (one  would  have  thought)  a  needless  assurance,  that  he 


PINAL  EMANCIPATION  ATTAINED  BY  WORSHIPPING  VISHNU.  271 

should  have  a  son  like  himself.  Bhishma  then  relates  that,  after  com- 
pleting the  rite  on  which  he  had  been  engaged,  Krishna  returned  to 
Dvaraka,  where  a  son  was  born  to  him  (6889),  and  goes  on  to  expatiate 
yet  further  on  his  divine  character.  Yudhishthira,  however,  is  still 
unsatisfied,  and  inquires  as  follows  (6937  S.)  : 

Z^im  elcam  dcmatam  lake  Mm  va  py  ekam  pardyanam  |  Team  stuvcmtah 
Team  arehantah  prapnuyur  manavah  ^ubham  |  Ico  dharmah  sarva-dharma- 
nam  Ihavaiah  paramo  matah  \  Mm  Japan  muohyate  janti/r  janma-samsara- 
landhanat  \  Bhlshmah  uvdcha  \  Jagat-prahhum  deva-devarh  anantam 
purusJiottamam  \  stuvan  ndma-sahasrena  purushah  satatottMtah  \  tarn  eva 
ehdrchayan  nityam  Vhaldyd  purusham  avyayam  \  dhydyan  stuvan  nama- 
syam&oha  yajamdnas  tarn  eva  cha  \  an-ddi-nidhanam  Vishnum  sarva-loka- 
mahekvaram  \  lokddhyaksham  stuvan  nityam  jarva-duhkhdtigo  bhavet  \ 
Irahmanyam  sarva-dharma-jnam  lohdndm  klrti-vardhanan  \  loha- 
ndtham  mdhad  Ihutam  sarva-lhuta-lhavodbhavam  |  esfia  me  sarva-dhar- 
mdndm  dharmo  'dMhatamo  matah  |  .  .  .  .  6946.  Yatah  sarvdni  bhutdm 
bhavanty  ddi-yugdgame  \  yasmiMicha  pralayam  ydnti  punar  eva  yuga- 
Icshaye  \  tasya  loha-praihdnasya  jaganndthasya  bhupate  \  Vishnor  ndma- 
sahasram  me  hinu  papa-bhaydpaham  \ 

"  What  is  the  one  deity  in  the  world,  or  what  is  the  one  highest 
object  ?  By  lauding  and  worshipping  whom  can  men  attain  to  felicity  ? 
What  duty  is  regarded  by  you  as  the  highest  of  all  duties  ?  By  mutter- 
ing what,  is  a  creature  freed  from  the  bonds  of  birth  and  of  the  world  ? 
Bhishma  answers :  A  man,  rising  continually,  and  lauding  with  his 
thousand  names  the  supreme  infinite  Purusha,  the  lord  of  the  world, 
the  god  of  gods,  worshipping  perpetually  with  devotion  this  undecaying 
Purusha,  contemplating,  praising,  reverencing,  and  adoring  him, 
Vishnu,  without  beginning  or  end,  the  great  lord  of  all  the  worlds, 
lauding  continually  the  ruler  of  the  worlds,  who  (the  ruler)  is  devout, 
skilled  in  all  duty,  the  augmenter  of  the  renown  of  the  worlds,  the 
lord  of  the  world,  the  great  being,  the  source  of  the  existence  of  all 
beings,  [doing  all  this,  a  man]  wUl  overpass  all  grief.  This  is  regarded 
-by  me  as  the  greatest  of  all  duties.  ...  v.  6946.  Hear,  king,  from 
me  the  sin-and-fear-removing  thousand  names  of  this  Vishnu,  chief  of 
the  world,  lord  of  the  world,  from  whom  all  creatures  spring  on  the 
arrival  of  the  commencing  yuga,  and  in  whom  again  they  are  absorbed 
at  the  end  of  the  yuga." 


272     EISHIS  DESIEE  MAHAD.  TO  EXPOUND  VASUD.'S  GREATNESS. 

These  thousand  names  of  Vishnu  are  then  detailed,  among  which 
the  following  occur,  all,  or  most  of  them,  ordinarily  appellations  of 
Mahadeva,  viz.  Sarva,  S'arva,  8'iva,  Sthanu  (v.  6953),  Isana  (v.  6957), 
Eudra  (v.  6962). 

Again,  we  are  informed  in  the  Anu^asana-parran,  that  the  rishis 
requested  Mahadeva  to  expound  to  theni  the  greatness  of  Yasudeva 
(Krishna),  which  he  accordingly  does  in  vv.  6806  ff.  : 

Pitamahdd  api  varah  sdhatah  Purusho  Harih  \  Krishno  jdmbunada- 
bhdso  vyabhre  suryah  ivoditah  \  da^a-b&hur  mahatejah  devatari-niaudanahl 
irivatsanho  SrisMlcesah  sarva-daivata-pujitali  \  Brahma  tasyoda/ra-lhavas 
tathd  chdham  iiro-bhavah  \  Uroruhehhyo  j'yotlmsM  romahhyaseha  surd- 
surah  I  rishayo  dehasamhhutds  tathd  lokdi  cha  idsvatdh  |  Pitdmaha- 
grihcm  sakshat  sarva-deva-yriham  cha  sah  |  so  'sydh  prithivydh  kritsna- 
yah  srashtd  trihhuvaneivarah  \  samharta  chaiva  bhutdndm  sthdvarasya 
charasya  cha  \  sa  hi  deva-varah  sdkshdd  deva-ndthah  pm'antapah  \  sarva- 
jnah  sa  hi  samiUshtah  sarvagah  sarvato-mukhah  |  paramdtmd  hrishikesah 
sarvavydpi  maheivarah  \  na  tasmdt  paramam  bhutam  trishu  lokeshu 
Mnchcma  \  sanatano  vai  Mddhuhd  Govindah  iti  viiruiah  \  sa  sarvdn 
parthivdn  sankhye  ghdtayishyati  mdnadah  \  sura-karydrtham  utpanno 
mdnusham  vapv/r  dsthitah  \  na  hi  deva-gandh  Saktas  Trivikrama-vind- 
kritah  j  bhmane  deva-kdrydni  kartum  n&yaka-varjitah  |  nayakah  sarva- 
bhutdndrh  sarva-bhuta-namaskritah  \  etasya  deva-ndthasya  deva-kdrya- 
ratasya  cha  \  brahma-bhutasya  satatam  devarshi-saranasya  cha  \  Brahmd 
vasati  ga/rbhasthah  sarire  mukha-samsthitah  \  sarvdh  sukhaih  samsritdi  eha 
ka/rire  tasya  devatdh  \  sa  devah  punda/rlkdkshah  Srigarbhah  iri-sahoshHah  \ 
ityddi]  .  .  .  6827.  bhavdrtham  iha  devdndm  buddhyd paramayd  yutah\ 
prdjapatye  kubhe  mdrge  Mdnave  dharma-samhite  \  samutpatsyati  Oovindo 
Manor  vamie  mahdtmanah  |  ....  v.  6835.  tesham  vikhydta-virydndm 
ehdritra-gumidUndm  |  yajvandm  suviSuddhdnam  vamh  brdhmana- 
sammate^^  |  sa  S'urah  kshatriya-ireshtho  mahdviryo  mahdyakdh  \  sva- 
vamka-vistara-kararh  janayishyati  mdnadah  \  Vasudevah  iti  khydtam 
putram  Anakadundubhim  \  tasya  pufrai  chaturbdhur  Vdsudevo  bha- 
vishyati  |  ddtd  brdhmana-satkartd  brahmabhuto  dvifa-priyah  |  .  .  .  . 
6842.  Tarn  bhavantah  samdsddya  vdn-mdlyair  arhanair  varaih  \  areha- 
yantu  yathdnydyam  Brahmdnam  iva  idivafam  |  yo  hi  mam  drashfum 
iehheta  Brahmdnancha  pitdmaham  \  drashfavyas  tena  bhagavdn  Vdsu- 
268   Quere,  Brahmana-mmmite,  "  equal  to  Brahmans  "  ? 


MAHADEVA  CELEBRATES  THE  GLORY  OF  KRISHNA.        273 

devah pratSpavan  \  drishte  tasminn  ahani  drishfo  na  me  'traati  vieharana\ 
piidmaho  vd  deveSah  iti  vitta  tapodhandh  | 

"  Superior  even  to  Pitamaha  (Brahma)  is  Hari,  the  eternal  Purusha, 
Krishna,  brilliant  as  gold,  like  the  sun  risen  in  a  cloudless  sky,  ten- 
armed,  of  mighty  force,  slayer  of  the  foes  of  the  gods,  marked  with  the 
^rlvatsa,  Hrishlkesa,  adored  by  all  the  gods.  Brahma  is  sprung  from 
his  belly  and  I  (Mahadeva)  from  his  head,  the  luminaries  from  the  hair 
of  his  head,  the  gods  and  Asuras  from  the  hairs  of  his  body,  and  the 
rishis,  as  well  as  the  everlasting  worlds,  have  been  produced  from  his 
body.  He  is  the  manifest  abode  of  Pitamaha,  and  of  aU  the  deities. 
He  is  the  creator  of  this  entire  earth,  the  lord  of  the  -three  worlds,  and 
the  destroyer  of  creatures,  of  the  stationary  and  the  movable.  He  is 
manifestly  the  most  eminent  of  the  gods,  the  lord  of  the  deities,  the 
vexer  of  his  foes.  He  is  omniscient,  intimately  united  [with  all  things], 
omnipresent,  facing  in  every  direction,  the  supreme  Spirit,  Hrishlkesa, 
all-pervading,  the  mighty  lord.  There  is  no  being  superior  to  him  in 
the  three  worlds.  The  slayer  of  Madhu  is  eternal,  renowned  as  Go- 
vinda.  He,  the  confSrer  of  honour,  born  to  fulfil  the  purposes  of  the 
gods,  and  assuming  a  human  body,  will  slay  all  the  kings  in  battle. 
Eor  all  the  hosts  of  the  gods,  destitute  of  Trivikraina  (the  god  who 
strode  thrice),  are  unable  to  effect  the  purposes  of  the  gods,  devoid  of 
a  leader.  He  is  the  leader  of  all  creatures,  and  worshipped  by  all 
creatures.  Of  this  lord  of  the  gods,  devoted  to  the  purposes  of  the 
gods,  who  is  Brahma,  and  is  the  constant  refuge  of  gods  and  rishis, 
Brahma  dwells  within  the  body,  abiding  in  his  face,  and  all  the  gods 
are  easily  sheltered  in  his  body.  This  god  is  the  lotus-eyed,  the  pro- 
ducer of  S'rl,  dwelling  together  with  S'rI.  .  .  .  6827.  For  the  welfare 
of  the  gods,  Govinda  shall  arise  in  the  family  of  the  great  Manu, 
possessed  of  eminent  intelligence,  and  [walking]  in  the  excellent  path 
of  the  Prajapati  Manu,  characterized  by  righteousness."  [Govinda's 
ancestors  are  then  detailed.]  6835.  "  In  this  family,  esteemed  by 
Brahnians,  of  men  renowned  for  valour,  distinguished  by  good  conduct 
and  excellent  qualities,  priests,  most  pure,  this  S'ura,  the  most  emi- 
nent of  Kshatriyas,  heroic,  renowned,  conferring  honour,  shaU  beget 
,  a  son  Anakadundubhi,'^'  the  prolonger  of  his  race,  known  as  Vasu- 
deva.     To  him  shall  be  bom  a  four-armed  son,  Vasudeva,  liberal,  a 

2┬Фs  See  РќаWilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  p.  436=Tol.  iv.,  p.  101,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed. 

VOL.   IV.  18 


274      BHISHMA  DECLARES  KRISHNA'S  DIVINE  GREATNESS. 

benefactor  of  Brahmans,  one  with  Brahma,  a  lover  of  Brahmans.  .  .  . 
6842.  Ton  (the  gods)  should,  as  is  fit,  worship  this  deity,  like  the 
eternal  Brahma,  approaching  him  with  reverential  and  excellent  gar- 
lands of  praise.  For  the  divine  and  glorious  Vasudeva  should  he 
beheld  by  him  who  desires  to  see  me  and  Brahma  the  Parent.  In 
regard  to  this  I  have  no  hesitation,  that  when  he  is  seen  I  am  seen,  or 
the  Parent  (Brahma),  the  lord  of  the  gods  :  know  this  ye  whose  wealth 
is  austerity." 

Further  on  in  the  same  Anusasana-parvan  (7356  S.),  it  is  related 
that  Bhishma,  when  called  on  by  Tudhishthira  to  inform  him  what  are 
the  benefits  resulting  from  reverence  rendered  to  Brahmans,  refers  him 
to  Srishna,  whose  divine  greatness  he  then  proceeds  to  set  forth  as 
follows  (vv.  7360  ff.)  : 

JTrishnah  prithvlm  asrijat  kham  divancha  Krishnasya  dehad  medini 
samhabhuva  \  varaho  'yam  IMma-lalah  purdnah  sa  parvatan  vyasrijad 
vai  disaicJia  \  asya  chadho  'thantwrlhsham  divancha  disai  chatasro  vidiiai 
chatasrah  \  srishtis  tathaiveyam  amiprasuta  sa  nirmame  viham  idam 
puranam  |  asya  n&bhydm  pushlcaram  samprasutaM  yatropannah  svayam 
evamitaujah  \  yena  Minnam  yat  iamah  Partha  ghoram  yat  tat  tishthaty 
mrna/oafh  tarjayanam  |  .  .  .  .  7388.  Vdyur  ihutvd  vihshipate  sa  vUvam 
agnir  hhutvd  dahate  visva-rupah  \  dpo  Ihutvd  majjayate  sa  sarvam 
Brahmd  ihutvd  srijate  ^arva-sanghdn  \  vedyancha  yad  vedayate  cha 
vedyarh  vidhUcha  yai  chdsrayate  vidheyam  \  dha/rme  cha  vede  cha  bale  cha 
sarvam  chardcharam  Kekavam  tvam  pratihi  \  jyotir-lhutah  paramo  'sau 
purastdt  prakdiate  yat  prabhayd  visva-rupah  \  apah  srishtvd  sarva- 
bhutdtma-yonik  pwd  'harot  sarvam  evdtha  viham  ityddi  | 

"Erishna  created  the  earth,  the  air,  and  the  sky;  from  Krishna's 
body  the  earth  was  produced.  He  is  the  ancient  boar  of  fearful  strength ; 
he  created  the  mountains  and  the  regions.  Beneath  him  are  the 
atmosphere  and  the  heaven,  the  four  regions,  and  the  four  intermediate 
regions :  and  [from  him]  this  creation  sprang  forth :  he  formed  this 
ancient  universe.  In  his  navel  a  lotus  grew  up,  where  he  himself  [in 
the  form  of  Brahma]  was  born  of  boundless  power.  By  him  the 
'  dreadful  darkness  was  pierced,  that  threatening  ocean  which  abides.  .  . 
7388.  Becoming  Vayu,  he  dissipates  this  universe ;  becoming  Fire,  he 
bums  it,  universal  in  his  forms;  becoming  "Water,  he  drowns  all 
things;  becoming  Brahma,  he  creates  all  the  hosts  [of  beings].     He  is 


MEETING  OP  KRISHNA  WITH  THE  MFNI  UTTANGA.        275 

whatever  is  to  be  known,  and  lie  makes  known  whatever  is  to  be 
known  :  he  is  the  rule  for  performance,  and  he  who  exists  in  that 
which  is  to  be  performed.  Believe  that  Ke^ava  [abides]  in  righteous- 
ness, in  the  Veda,  in  strength,  and  that  he  is  the  whole  world, 
movable  and  immovable.  Since  he,  the  supreme,  being  by  nature 
luminous,  shines  from  the  beginning,  in  every  form  of  splendour,  this, 
soul  and  source  of  all  beings,  having  created  the  waters,  formed  of  old 
this  entire  universe."  Krishna  then  (vv.  7402  ff.)  proceeds  to  set 
forth  the  benefits  of  reverence  to  Brahmans,  who  he  says  (7412  f.) 
could  reduce  this  world  to  ashes,  and  create  new  ones,  and  rulers  of 
worlds,  {Ihasma  kwyur  jagad  idam  kruddhah  pratyaksha-dar^inah  \ 
anydn  api  srijeyui  oha  lokan  lokehardms  tatha)  and  illustrates  his 
opinion  of  their  importance  by  the  results  of  his  own  experience  regard- 
ing Durvasas  (see  above,  p.  196).  He  afterwards  goes  on,  in  the  passage 
which  I  have  already  cited  in  pp.  197  ff.,  to  return  the  compliment  paid 
to  him  by  Mahadeva,  by  celebrating  the  greatness  of  that  deity ;  and 
in  the  course  of  his  description  he  makes  nearly  as  explicit  an  avowal 
of  the  supreme  divinity  of  the  other  god,  as  the  latter  has  made  in 
regard  to  him  in  the  text  (Anusasana-parvan,  6806  ff.)  which  has  just 
been  adduced  in  p.  273  f. 

In  the  Asvamedhika-parvan  it  is  related,  vv.  1536  ff.,  that  when 
Krishna  had  left  the  city  of  the  Pandus,  and  was  journeying  to 
Dvaraka,  he  fell  in  with  the  muni  TJttanga,  who  asked  him  whether 
he  had  reconciled  the  Kurus  and  Pandus  with  one  another.  Krishna 
replied  (1559)  that  he  had  made  the  attempt  to  do  so,  but  without 
success,  and  that  the  Kurus  had  perished  in  consequence.  On  hearing 
this  Uttanga  becomes  greatly  incensed,  and  threatens  to  curse  Krishna 
because  he  had  not  rescued  the  Kurus,  although  he  was  perfectly  able 
to  do  so.  To  pacify  the  muni's  wrath,  Krishna  offers  to  explain  the 
circumstances,  and  to  unfold  the  mystery  of  his  own  nature;  which 
he  accordingly  does  in  vv.  1564  ff. : 

Vasudevah  uvaeha  \  tamo  rajak  eha  sattvam  oha  viddhi  bhdvan  mad- 
dirayan  \  tathd  Eud^dn  Vasun  vd  'pi  viddhi  mat-prabhmidn  d/oija  \  mayi 
sarvani  bhutdni  sarva-hhuteshu  ehdpy  aham  \  sthitah  ityddi]  .... 
1567.  Sad  asachehaiva  yat  prdhur  avyaUam  vyaktam  ma  oha  \  aksha/ram 
eha  ksharanohawa  sanam  etad  mad-atmakam  \  ye  chdkrameshu  vai  dharmdk 
ehatiwdhd  viditah  mune  \  vaidikani  oha  sarvani  viddhi  sarvam  mad-atma- 


^ 


276  KIRISHNA  DECLARES  HIS  0"WN  NATURE. 

leam  \  asachcha  sad-asachchaiiM  yad  viham  sad-asat-param  \  mattak 
parataram  ndati  deva-devat  sanatanSt  \  onikara-pramukhan  veddn  viddhi 
mam  tvam  Bhrigudvaha  \  yupam  aomam  cha/rwih  homaffi  trida^dpyayanam 
makhe  \  hotdram  api  havyamcha  viddhi  mdm  Bhrigu-nemdana  \  adlma/ryuh 
Jcalpahmydpi  havih  parama-m0tskritam  J  udgdtd  chdpi  mdm  atauti  glta- 
ghoshair  mahddhiare  \  prdyaichitteshu  mdm  hrahman  idnti-mangala- 
vdchaMh  |  stuvanti  vihakarmdnam  mtatarh  d/oija-sattama  \  mama  viddhi 
sutam  dharmam  agrajam,  dvija-sattama  \  manasam  dayitam  vipra  sarva- 
bhuta-daydtmalcam  \  tatrdham  vartamanaiicha  nirvrittaiiohaiva  mdna- 
vaih  I  hahvih  samswramdm  vai  yomr  vartdmi  sattama  \  dha/rma-samrdkah- 
andrthdya  dha/rma-samathdpandya  cha  |  tais  tair  veiaiS  eha  rupaiS  cha 
trishu  lokeshu  Bhdrgava  \  aham  Yiahnwr  aham  Brahma  S'ahro  Hha  pra- 
Ikcwavyayah  {dpyayak  ?) "'"'  |  hhuta-grdmasya  sarvasya  araahtd  aamhdrah 
eva  cha  |  ndha/rme  vwrtamandndm,  sarveshdm  aham  achyutah  \  dharmasya 
setum  hadhndmi  chalite  ohalite  yuge  \  ids  tdh  yonih  pra/oi&yahmn,  prajdndm 
Mtakdmyayd  |  y^ada  tv  aham  deva-yonau  vartdmi  Bhrigu-nandatia  \  tadd 
'ham  deva-vat  sarvam  dehardmi  na  aamsayah  |  .  .  .  .  1682.  Mdnuahye 
vartamdne  tu  kripanam  yachitdh  mayd  |  na  <iha  te  jdta-sammohdh  vaeho 
'grihnanta  mohitdh  \  hhayancha  mahad  uddisy^i  trdsitdh  Kuravo  mayd  | 
kruddhena  hhutvd  cha  puna/r  yathdvad  a/nuda/r&itdh  \  te  'dharmeneha 
safhyuktdh  paritdh  kdla-dharmand  \  dharmena  nihatdh  yuddihe  gatdh 
sva/rgam  na  sam&ayah  |  .  .  .  .  JIttangah,  uvdcha  \  ahhijdndmi  jagata^ 
kmridram  tvdm  Jandrdana  \ 

"Know  that  the  qualities  of  darkness  (tamaa),  passion  (rajas),  and . 
goodness  {^attva)  have  their  abode  in  me.     Know  also  that  both  the 
Eudras  and  Vasus  are  sprung  from  me.     All  beings  reside  in  me,  and 

I  in  all  beings,  etc 1567  ff.  :    That  which  men  call  entity 

and  non-entity,  the  unmanifested  and  the  manifested,  the  undecaying 
and  the  decaying, Рђћ all  this  consists  of  my  essence.  And  know,  0 
muni,  that  the  fourfold  duties  which  are  recognized  as  belonging  to  the 
[four]  conditions  of  life,  as  well  as  all  the  Vedi-c  [ordinances],  partake 
of  my  essence.  As  regards  non-entity,  and  that  which  is  both  entity 
and  non-entity,  and  that  which  transcends  both  entity  and  nou-entity, 
Рђћ know  that  [of  all  this]  there  is  nothing  which  transcends  me,  the 
eternal  god  of  gods.  Know,  descendant  of  Bhrigu,  that  I  am  the  Vedas 
which  are  int;roduced  by  the  omkara,  [that  I  am],  the  sacrificial  post, 

^'o  See  Bbhtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lezioon,  tinder  apyaya;  and  Udyoga-parvan,  t.  2669. 


FTJTUEE  BLISS  OF  BRAVE  VAREIOES  SLAIN  IN  BATTLE.    277 

the  soma,  the  charu,  the  homa,  which  satiates  the  immortals,  tridasa- 
pyayana  in  the  sacrifice.  Know  that  I  am  both  the  hotri  (priest), 
and  the  havya  (oblation).  [I  am]  also  the  adhraeyii  of  the  ceremony, 
and  the  highly  purified  butter.  The  udgatri  celebrates  me  with  sounds 
of  hymns  at  the  great  sacrifice.  And  at  the  rites  of  atonement,  the 
priests  who  utter  propitiatory  and  auspicious  texts  continually,  0 
excellent  Brahman,  praise  me,  the  architect  of  all.  Know  that  Dharma 
(Righteousness)  is  my  beloved  first-born  mental  son,  whose  nature  is  to 
have  compassion  on  all  creatures.  There  I  exist  among  men,  both 
present  and  past,  passing  through  many  varieties  of  mundane  existence, 
in  different  disguises  and  forms,  in  the  three  worlds,  for  the  preserva- 
tion and  establishment  of  righteousness.  I  am  Vishnu,  Brahma,  Indra, 
and  the  source  as  well  as  destruction  [of  things],  the  creator  and  the 
annihilator  of  the  whole  aggregate  of  existences.  When  all  men' live 
in  unrighteousness,  I,  the  unfeUing,  build  up  the  bulwark  of  righteous- 
ness, as  the  ages  pass  away,  entering  into  various  wombs,  from  a  desire 
to  promote  the  good  of  creatures^  Whenever  I  assume  a  divine  birth, 
I  act  in  every  respect  agreeably  to  my  character  of  a  god."  .  .  .  (He 
adds  that  he  acts  agreeably  to  all  the  other  natures  which  he  assumes.) 
1582.  "But  during  the  existence  of  my  mortal  condition,  though  they 
(the  Kurns)  were  humbly  entreated  by  me,  they,  through  delusion,  were 
not  touched,  and  did  not  listen  to  my  words.  Though  terrified  by  me, 
when  I  was  incensed,  with  great  alarms,  and  again  fittingly  ad- 
monished, they,  influenced  by  unrighteousness,  and  overcome  by  fate, 
have  been  righteously  slain  in  battle,  and  have  undoubtedly  gone  to 
heaven."^"  On  hearing  this  reply  of  Krishna,  the  sage  TJttanga  breaks 
out :  "I  recognize  thee,  Janardana,  as  the  creator  of  the  world,"  etc. 
Krishna  then  shows  him  his  divine  form. 

"'^  See  Mahabharata,  S'anti-parvan,  T.  3655  ff.,  where  India  says :  Ahcme  tu  hataM 
aurcm  na  socheta  kathanehana  \  aaochyo  hi  hatah  surah  svarga-loke  mahlyate  \  na 
hy  annam  nodakam  taaya  na  manam  napy  aiattchakam  \  hatasya  karlum  ichhanti 
tasya  lokan  srinushva  me  \  varapsarah^sahaarani  sTiram  ayodhane  hatam  \  tvaramana 
'bhidhavanti  "mama  bharta  bhwoed"  iti  \  "Let  no  one  ever  lament  a  hero  slain 
in  battle.  A  hero  slain  is  not  to  be  lamented,  for  he  is  exalted  in  heaven.  Men 
do  not  desire  to  offer  to  him  food  or  water,  or  perform  ablutions,  or  [contract  ?] 
impurity  [on  his  acoonnt].  Hear  from  me  the  worlds  to  which  he  goes.  Thousands 
of  beautifal  nymphs  [apsarases)  run  quickly  up  to  the  hero  who  has  been  slain  ia 
combat,  saying  to  him,  'be  my  husband.'  "  Professor  "Weber  refers  to  this  passage, 
Indische  Studien,  i.  398,  note,  and  notices  the  parallel  it  forms  to  similar  representa- 


278  COMBAT,  AND  SUBSEQUENT  RECONCILIATION 

VIII.  In  the  preceding  pages,  various  passages  have  been  adduced 
in  which  the  supremacy  of  Mahadeva  and  his  identity  with  the  soul 
of  the  Tmiverse  hava  been  asserted  (pp.  185  f.,  194,  196),  and  other 
texts  have  been  quoted  in  which  the  same  rank  and  character  are 
assigned  to  Vishnu  (pp.  263  ff.).  The  reader  will  likewise  have 
noticed  that  in  some  places  also  (pp.  241,  268),  an  attempt  is  made, 
by  alleging  the  essential  oneness  of  the  two  deities,  to  reconcile  their 
conflicting  claims."^  Another  passage  of  this  description  occurs  in  the 
Harivam^a,  vv.  10660  ff.  It  had  been  related  in  the  preceding  sec- 
tion that  S'iva  had  come  to  the  assistance  of  Bana  and  the  Danavas  in 

tions  atout  Huris  in  the  Coran-  So  also  in  tt.  3391  ff.,  it  is  said :  Abhlto  vikiran 
datrun pratigrihya  sarams  tatha  |  na  tasmat  tridasah  sreyo  bhuvi pasyanti  Mnchcma  | 
tasya  iaatrani  ymmzti  tvacham  bhindanti  samyuge  |  tavatah  so  'a'nute  loJcan  sarva- 
kama-duho  'hshayan  \  yad  asya  radhirain  gatrad  ahme  samprmartate  |  saJm  tenaim 
papena  sm-va-papaih  pramuehyate  \  "  The  gods  see  nothing  on  earth  superior  to  the  man 
who,  fearless,  scattering  his  foes,  receives  arrows  in  his  body.  As  many  weapons  as 
pierce  him  in  the  fray,  so  many  worlds  yielding  all  enjoyments  does  he  enjoy.  With 
the  blood  which  flows  from  his  body,  and  through  that  misery  so  endured,  he  is 
freedfrom  all  his  sins."  Much  more  follows  in  praise  of  Talour  and  reprehension 
of  timidity.  In  vv.  3626  ff.  a  battle  is  compared  to  a  sacrifice,  and  their  corre- 
sponding parts  described.  In  tt.  3666  ff.  we  are  told  that  King  Janaka  showed  his 
warriors  the  shining  heaTens,  filled  with  Gandharvas'  daughters,  and  yielding  all 
manner  of  delights,  destined  for  the  courageous  {abhlrunam  ime  lo&dh  bhusvanto 
hanta  paiyata  \  purnah  gandhana-Mnyabhih  sarva-kama-duho  'kshayah) ;  and  the 
hells  prepared  for  such  as  fled  from  battle.  In  the  same  way  Krishna  says  to  Jara- 
sandha  (Sabha-parTan,  t.  869) :  Ko  hijancmn  abhijanam  atmavan  kshatriyo  nripah] 
navis'at  svargam  atuldm  rananantaram  miyayam  \  svargam  hy  eva  samasthaya  rana- 
yajneshu  dtksMtah  |  jayanti  hshatriyah  lokams  tad  viddhi  manujarshabha  \  svarga- 
yonir  mahad  brahma  svarga-yonir  mahad  yaSah  |  svarga-yonia  tapo  yuddhe  mrityuh 
so  'vyabhieharavan  |  "  For  what  Kshatriya  king,  who  was  wise,  and  appreciated  his 
own  noble  birth,  has  not,  after  the  battle,  entered  into  an  incomparable  and  un- 
decaying  paradise  P  Know,  chief  of  men,  that  Eshatriyas,  consecrated  in  the  sacrifice 
of  battle,  attain  to  paradise  and  conquer  the  worlds.  Great  scriptural  knowledge  is 
the  source  of  paradise,  and  so  is  great  renown  ;  austerity  [tapas)  in  fight,  too,  is  the 
source  of  paradise ;  such  a  death  never  fails  of  its  reward."  See  also  E.V.  x.  154, 3, 
quoted  in  the  fifth  Tolume  of  this  work,  p.  310. 

2"  Compare  Vayu  Purana,  as  quoted  in  Aufrecht's  Catalogue,  p.  66,  col.  2  (partly 
referred  to  aboTe,  p.  267,  note) ;  Varahap.,  ibid.,  p.  68,  col.  2,  note  2,  and  p.  69,  . 
col.  2 ;  DcTlbhag.,  ibid.,  p.  81a;  also  Padraap.,  ibid.,  p.  16,  note  1.  The  last  text 
is  as  follows :  Krishna  speaks :  S'aivSh  Sauras  cha  Ganesah  Vaishnavah  S'akti- 
pujakah  \  mam  eva  prapmmantVM  sarvapah  eagaram  yatha  \  eko  hi  panchndha  jatah 
svarupair  namabhih  kila\  Bevadatto  yatha  has  chit  putrady-ahvana-namabhih  \  "The 
worshippers  of  S'iTa,  Sura  (the  Sun),  Ganes'a,  Vishnu  and  S'akti,  come  to  me,  as  all 
streams  flow  to  the  ocean.  For,  though  one,  I  am  bom  with  fivefold  forms  and 
names,  just  as  the  man  DeViidatta  when  called  [is  addressed]  by  the  appellations  of 
'son,'  etc." 


OF  KRISHNA  AND  S'lVA.  279 

their  conflict  with  Krishna  (v.  10587  f.),  when  a  terrible  combat  ensues 
between  the  latter  and  S'iva,  which  causes  the  earth  to  tremble,  and 
throws  the  whole  universe  into  disorder  (v.  10601  f.).  S'iva  is  at 
length  paralyzed  by  a  weapon  of  his  adversary  called  jrimbhana,  which 
causes  him  to  yawn  incessantly  (v.  10632  f.).  The  earth  is  distressed 
(v.  10641  ff.)  and  appeals  to  Brahmafor  assistance.  Brahma  (v.  10647) 
remonstrates  with  Siva  against  his  conflict  with  Krishna,  who,  he  says, 
is  in  reality  one  with  himself.  S'iva  perceiving  by  yoga  (mental  union 
with  the  object  contemplated)  the  truth  of  what  Brahma  had  stated, 
says  to  Brahma  that  he  will  no  longer  fight  against  Krishna,  and  the 
two  combatants  embrace  (v.  10648  ff.).  Brahma  then  says  to  the  sage 
Markandeya  (v.  10656  ff.)  that  he  had  formerly,  in  a  dream,  seen  the 
two  deities  on  the  northern  side  of  the  mountain  Mandara,  each  invested 
with  the  emblems  of  the  other,  Hara  (S'iva)  in  the  form  of  Hari 
(Vishnu)  with  the  shell,  discus,  and  club,  clothed  in  yellow  vestments 
and  mounted  on  Garuda,  and  Hari  in  the  form  of  Hara,  bearing  the 
trident  and  axe,  clad  in  a  tiger's  skin,  and  mounted  on  a  bull ;  and  he 
asks  the  sage  Markandeya  to  explain  this  phenomenon  which  had 
occasioned  him  great  astonishment.  Markandeya  replies  (vv.  10660  ff.) : 
MariandeyaA  uvacha\  S'ivaya  Vishnu-rupaya  Vishnave  S'iva-rupme^^^ 
athantaram  napasyami  tena  te  disatah"*  iivam  \  an-adi-madhya-nidhanam 
etad  ahharam  avyayam  \  tad  eva  te  pravahshyami  rupam  HariSarat- 
makam  \  yo  vai  Vishnuh  sa  vai  Rudro  yo  Rudrah  sa  Pitamahah  \  eka 
murtis  trayo  devah .Rudra-Vishnu-Pitamahdh  \  varadah  lolca-kartdro 
loka-nathdh  svaymibhuvah  \  ardha-nariivardi  te  tu  vratam  twrarn  samd- 
iritdh  \  yatha  jale  jalam  Icshiptafh  jalam  eva  tu  tad  bha/vet  \  Eudrafh 
Fishnuh  pravishtas  tu  tathd  Rudramayo  hhavet  \  agnim  agnih  pravishtas 
tu  agnir  eva  yathd  hhavet  \  tathd  Vishnum  pravishtas  tu  Rudro  Vishnu- 
mayo  hhavet  \  Rudram  agnimayam  vidydd  Vishnuh  somdtmakah  smritah  \ 
agnishomdtmakam,  ehaiva  jagat  sthdva/ra-jangamam  |  kartdrau  chdpa- 
hartdrau  sthdvarasya  eharasya  oha  |  jagatah  iuhha-kartdrau  prahhu 
Vishnu-Maheivarau,  \  kartri-kdrana-ka/rtdrau  ha/rtri-kdrana-kdrdkau  \ 
hhuta-bhttvyorhhavau  devau  \Ndrdyana-Maheharau  |  etau  tau  cha  pra- 
vakidrdv  etau  tau  eka  prahhdmayau  \  jagatah  pdlakdv  etdv  etau  srishti- 
karau  smritau  \  ete  ehaiva  pravarshanti  hhdnti  vdnti  srijanti  cha  \  etat 

2"  See  tte  same  words  above,  p.  231. 

SM  The  MS.  in  the  library  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  reads  dariitah. 


280    BEAHMA,  VISHNU,  S'lVA,  THREE  GODS,  ONE  SUBSTANCE. 

parataram  guhyam  hathitafh  te  Pitamaha  \  yai  ehainam  pafhate  nityafn 
yai  ehainam  drimyad  narah  |  prapnoti paramam sthanam  Rud/ra-Viihnu- 
prasdda-jam  |  devau  Hari-Har,au  stoshye  Brahmand  saha  sanyaiau  |  etau 
chaparamau  devau  jay  atah  praikavapyayau  |  Rudrasya  paramo  Vishnur 
Vishnokha  paramah  S'ivah  \  ekah  eva  dvidhd-hJiuto  hlce  ehwrati  nityaiah  \ 
na  vind  S'amka/rafh  Vishnur  na  vind  Keiavam  S'ivah  |  tasmdd  ehatvam 
ayatau  Budropendrau  tu  tau  pwrd  \  ityddi.  Рђб 

"  When  thou  showest  me  this  auspicious  [vision],  I  perceive 
thereby  no  difference  between  S'iva  who  exists  in  the  form  of  Vishnu, 
and  Vishnu  who  exists  in  the  form  of  S'iva.  I  shall  declare  to  thee 
that  form  composed  of  Hari  and  Hara  (Yishau  and  Mahadeva)  com- 
bined, which  is  without  beginning,  or  middle,  or  end,  imperishable, 
undecaying.  He  who  is  Vishnu  is  Eudra ;  he  who  is  Eudra  is  Pita- 
maha (Brahma) :  the  substance  [murti)  is  one,  the  gods  are  three, 
Eudra,  Vishnu,  and  Pitamaha.  Bestowers  of  boons,  creators  of  the 
world,  sovereigns  of  the  world,  self-existent,  they  are  the  half-female 
lords,  and  have  performed  austere  rites.  Just  as  water  thrown  into 
water  can  be  nothing  else  than  water,  so  Vishnu  entering  into  Eudra 
must  possess  the  nature  of  Eudra.  And  just  as  fire  entering  into  fire 
can  be  nothing  else  but  fire,  so  Eudra  entering  into  Vishnu  must 
possess  the  nature  of  Vishnu.  Let  Eudra  be  understood  to  possess  the 
nature  of  Agni;  Vishnu  is  declared  to  possess  the  nature  of  Soma 
(the  Moon) ;  and  the  world,  movable  and  immovable,  possesses  the 
nature  of  Agni  and  Soma."^  The  lords,  Vishnu  and  Mahe^vara,  are 
the  makers  and  destroyers  of  things  movable  and  immovable,  and 
the  benefactors  of  the  world.  The  gods  Narayana  and  Mahe^vara 
are  the  [first]  maters  of  the  cause,  and  of  [the  secondary]  maker, 
the  [first]  causers  of  the  cause,  and  of  the  [secondary]  makers, 
existing  in  the  past,  future,  and  present.  And  these  two  are  the 
revealers,  they  possess  a  luminous  essence,  they  are  declared  to  be  the 
preservers  of  the  world,  and  the  creators.  They  rain,  they  shine,  they 
blow,  and  they  create.  This  which  I  have  told  thee,  Pitamaha,  is  the 
highest  mystery.  The  man  who  continually  repeats  it,  and  hears  it, 
obtains  the  highest  abode,  granted  by  the  grace  of  Eudra  and  Vishnu. 
I  shall  laud  the  gods  Hari  and  Hara,  associated  with  Brahma;  and 
these  two  are  the  supreme  deities,  the  originators  and  destroyers  of  the 
"┬╗  See  above,  pp.  204  and  225. 


DIFFEEENT  EEPEESENTATIONS  OF  KRISHNA.  281 

Рќаworld.  Vishnu,  the  highest  [manifestation]  of  Eudra,  and  S'iva,  the 
highest  [manifestation]  of  Vishnu, Рђћ this  [god]  one  only,  though 
divided  into  twain,  moves  continually  in  the  world.  Yishnu  does  not 
[exist]  without  S'ankara,  nor  S'iva  without  Ke^ava ;  hence  these  two, 
Eudra  and  Upendra  (Vishnu),  have  formerly  attained  to  oneness,"  etc. 

Then  follows  a  hymn  to  the  double  deity. 

The  various  representations  of  Krishna  given  in  the  different  sets 
of  passages  above  cited  possess  a  certain  interest  in  themselves,  even 
independently  of  the  light'  which  they  may  be  considered  to  throw  on 
the  process  by  which  his  deification  was  effected.  Among  the  texts 
adduced  from  the  Mahabharata  there  are  some  (see  -pp.  1 85  ff.)  in 
which  he  is  distinctly  subordinated  to  Mahadeva,  of  whom  he  is  ex- 
hibited as  a  worshipper,  and  from  whom,  as  well  as  from  his  wife  ITma, 
he  is  stated  to  have  received  a  variety  of  boons.  Even  in  these  passages, 
however,  a  superhuman  character  is  ascribed  to  Erishna. 

A  second  class  of  texts  has  been  brought  forward  in  pp.  205  ff.,  in 
which  his  superiority  is  represented  to  have  been  denied  by  S'isupala, 
Duryodhana,  Karna,  and  S'alya.  Of  course  we  are  not  to  imagine  that 
any  claim  to  a  superhuman  character  was  ever  advanced  on  behalf  of 
the  Tadava  hero  in  his  lifetime,  either  by  himself  or  his  friends.  These 
narrative  passages,  therefore,  in  which  his  divine  dignity  is  denied  by 
his  enemies,  and  asserted  by  his  partisans,  as  well  as  vindicated  by  the 
miraculous  exploits  which  are  attributed  to  him,  are  nothing  more  than 
poetical  fictions  (possibly  of  a  polemical  import)  put  forward  at  a  period 
when  his  godhead  had  come  to  be  recognized  by  the  Vaishnavas,  though 
perhaps  doubted  or  disputed  by  other  sects.  Such  a  resistance  to  the 
pretensions  set  up  on  Krishna's  behalf  may  be  indicated  in  the  verses  I 
have  quoted  in  p.  237  f.,  where  all  who  regard  him  as  a  mere  man  are 
stigmatized  as  being  under  the  dominion  of  the  quality  of  darkness. 

In  the  third  class  of  passages,  quoted  in  pp.  243  ff.,  where  the 
achievements  of  Krishna  are  described  with  a  supernatural  colouring, 
it  seems  not  unreasonable  to  recognize  a  basis  of  simpler  legend  (if  not 
of  actual  history )"┬░  underlying  the  niiraculous  narrative,  and  to  trace 
a  reference  to  a  variety  of  warlike  adventures  in  which  the  Tadava 
chief  contended  as  a  mere  man  with  the  warriors  of  other  tribes.  The 
supernatural  powers  which  are  here  ascribed  to  him  are  not  in  their 
'"  See  Lassen's  Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  i.,  p.  615 ;  in  second  ed.,  p.  762. 


282     EEMAEKS  ON  SOME  OF  THE  PRECEDING  QUOTATIONS. 

character  essentially  different  from  those  which  are  attributed  to  his 
enemies,  -who,  it  will  be  observed,  are  in  like  manner  represented  as 
endowed  with  superhuman  faculties;  while  Krishna  himself  is  in 
various  places  described  as  being  indebted  to  the  gods  for  his  weapons, 
or  for  other  advantages  (see  the  Drona-parvan,  v.  402,  and  the  Adi- 
parvan,  v.  8196,  quoted  or  referred  to  in  pp.  244  ff.,  and  the  Udyoga- 
parvan,  quoted  in  p.  247). 

The  identification  of  Arjuna  and  Krishna  with  the  saints  Nara  and 
Narayana  (pp.  228  ff.)'"'  is  curious;  but  I  am  unable  to  conjecture 
whether  it  may  have  originated  in  a  previously  existing  legend  respect- 
ing two  rishis  of  that  name  (the  one  of  whom,  as  bearing  the  same 
name  which  was  ultimately  applied  to  Vishnu  and  Krishna,  was,  in 
the  fanciful  spirit  of  Indian  mythology,  and  in  consonance  with  the 
tenet  of  metempsychosis,  declared  to  have  been  an  earlier  manifestation 
of  Krishna, Рђћ when  Arjuna,  the  bosom  friend  of  the  latter,  would 
naturally  be  regarded  as  the  same  with  Nara,  the  inseparable  com- 
panion of  Narayana) ;  or  whether  the  whole  legend  was  originally 
invented  for  the  glorification  of  Krishna  and  Arjuna. 

In  the  passages  above  adverted  to,  where  Krishna  is  subordinated 
to  Mahadeva,  the  latter  is  identified  with  the  supreme  Deity  (see 
pp.  185  ff.,  194).  In  another  set  of  texts,  however  (pp.  230,  264  ff.), 
Krishna,  as  Vishnu,  is  asserted  to  be  one  with  the  supreme  God,"' 
while  Mahadeva  is  represented  as  springing  from,  and  dependent 
on,  Vishnu.  But  here  and  elsewhere,  as  we  have  already  seen,  an 
attempt  is  made  to  reconcile  the  claims  of  the  two  rival  deities  by 
affirming  their  identity  (pp.  241,  268).  How  are  we  to  explain 
this  circumstance,  that  in  one  place  Mahadeva  is  extolled  at  the 
expense  of  Krishna,  and  that  in  another  place  Krishna  is  exalted 
above  Mahadeva  ?  Must  we  assume  the  one  set  of  passages  to  be  older 


'  ^"  In  Bohtlingk  and  Both's  Dictionary  the  word  Narat/ana  is  explained  as  the 
"  son  of  man,"  and  as  a  patronymic  of  the  personi6ed  Purusha,  the  rishi  of  the 
Purusha-sukta  (R.V.,  i.  90).  Ifara  is  in  the  same  work  interpreted  as  the  "pri- 
meval man." 

^'9  Even  in  the  parts  of  the  Vishnu  Purana  and  Mahabharata  (see  pp.  49  and 
253  ff.),  where  Krishna  is  represented  as  a  partial  incarnation  of  the  godhead,  there 
does  not  appear  to  be  any  intention  to  question  the  plenitude  of  his  divine  nature. 
Compare  the  27th  with  the  34th  and  following  verses  of  the  33rd  section  of  the  10th 
Book  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  quoted  in  p.  49. 


WIDE  DIFFUSION  OF  THE  WOESHIP  OF  MAHADEVA.       283 

than  the  other,  or  are  we  to  suppose  them  to  be  contemporaneous,  or 
nearly  contemporaneous,  and  to  have  been  inserted  in  the  Mahabharata 
by  different  classes  of  sectaries  in  order  to  give  a  sort  of  catholicity  to 
the  great  epic,  by  making  it  a  storehouse  in  which  the  votaries  of  all  the 
different  deities  might  find  something  to  satisfy  their  various  tendencies  ? 

Though  deeper  study  might  lead  to  a  different  conclusion,  it  does  not, 
I  think,  result  from  a  superficial  comparison  of  the  principal  passages 
which  I  have  quoted  relative  to  Mahadeva,  with  those  which  have  re- 
ference to  Krishna,  that  the  one  class  bears  in  its  general  complexion  the 
impress  of  any  greater  antiquity  than  the  other.  Both,  in  their  present 
form  at  least,  appear  to  belong  to  the  same  age,  as  we  find  in  both  the 
same  tendency  to  identify  the  god  who  is  the  object  of  adoration  with 
the  supreme  Soul.  The  passages  relating  to  both  gods,  as  they  now 
stand,  would  therefore  seem  to  be  the  products  of  a  sectarian  spirit,  and 
to  have  been  introduced  into  the  poem  by  the  S'aivas  and  Vaishnavas  for 
the  purpose  of  upholding  the  honour  of  their  respective  deities.  But 
on  the  other  hand  the  mere  fact  that  a  poem  in  which  Krishna  plays 
throughout  so  prominent  a  part,  and  which  in  its  existing  form  is  so 
largely  devoted  to  Kis  glorification,  should  at  the  same  time  contain 
so  many  passages  which  formally  extol  the  greatness,  and  still  more, 
which  incidentally  refer  to  a  frequent  adoration,  of  the  rival  deity,  by 
thp  different  personages,  whether  contemporary  or  of  earlier  date,  who 
are  introduced, Рђћ this  fact  is,  I  think,  a  proof  that  the  worship  of  the 
latter  (Mahadeva)  was  widely  diffused,  if  indeed  it  was  not  the  pre- 
dominant worship  in*  India,  at  the  period  to  which  the  action  of  the 
poem  is  referred.  Various  references  to  such  a  worship  of  Mahadeva 
as  I  have  alluded  to  will  be  found  in  the  preceding  pages,  184  ff., 
230  ff.,  and  269  (where  the  abode  of  this  deity  is  described  as  being  in 
the  Himalaya,  p.  230  and  269).  I  shall  quote  some  further  illus- 
trations of  its  prevalence.'" 

Lassen  remarks  (i.  780;  i.  922  in  second  ed.),  that  in  the  epic  poems 
the  worship  of  Vishnu  is  but  seldom'''┬░  mentioned Рђћ a  fact  which  he 


"9  See  Lassen'a  Indian  Antiquities,  vol.  i.,  pp.  561,  571,  610,  711,  716,  741,  and 
781 ;  =pp.  675,  685,  756,  861,  708,  871,  922,  in  second  ed. 

2'"  Lassen  (i.  679  =p.  828  in  second  ed.)  refers  to  a  passage  of  the  Vana-parvan 
(15283  S.),  where  Duryodhana,  being  prevented  from  offering  a  rajasuya  sacrifice,  is 
advised  by  his  priest  to  offer  a  sacrifice  to  Vishnu.  This  story  will  be  quoted  further  on. 


284         TEXTS  EEGAEDING  THE  "WORSHIP  OF  MAHADEVA. 

regards  as  proving  that  at  the  period  when  they  were  composed  no 
special  worship  of  that  deity  had  been  extensively  spread,  at  least 
among  the  Brahmans  and  princes,  to  the  description  of  whose  manners 
and  customs  those  works  almost  exclusively  confine  themselves.  On 
the  other  hand  he  quotes  (note  to  i.  561,  1st  ed. ;  i.  676,  2nd  ed.)  the 
following  passages  to  prove  the  wide  extension  of  the  worship  of  Maha- 
deva  in  different  parts  of  India,  In  the  Tirtha-yatra,  or  section  on 
visiting  places  of  pilgrimage,  in  the  Vana-parvan,  6054  ff.,  it  is  said 
of  the  Vaitarani  river,  in  the  country  of  the  Kalingas : 

Tatas  Tripishtapam  gachchhet  trishu  hheshu  vUrutam  \  tatra  fmta- 
rani  punya  nadl  papa-prunaiini  \  tatra  sndtvd  'rchaffitva  eha  S'ulapanim 
Vrishadlivajam  |  sarva-papa-vihiddhdtma  gacKheta  paramdm  gatim  \ 
"  Let  him  then  go  to  Tripishtapa,  renowned  in  the  three  worlds. 
There  is  the  holy  river  Vaitarani,  which  destroys  sin.  Having  bathed 
there  and  worshipped  the  god  who  wields  the  trident  and  whose  ensign 
is  the  bull  (Mahadeva),  he  shall  be  purified  from  all  sin,  and  attain  the 
highest  felicity." 

At  vv.  11001  of  the  same  book  (p.  569  of  the  printed  Calcutta  ed.) 
it  is  said  of  the  north  bank  of  the  same  river : 

Atraiva  Budro  rdj'endra  paium  adattavan  malche  \  pa&v/m  addya 
rdjendra  hhdgo  'yam  iti  ehahravU  \  hriie  pakau  tadd  devds  tarn  uchur 
BharatcKTshahha  |  md  para-svam  alhidrogdhdh  md  dhwrmdn  sakaldn 
vaiih,  I  tatah  kalydna-rupdhhir  vdghhis  te  Budram  astuvan  \  ishtyd 
chainam  tarpayitva  mdnayanohdkrvre  tadd  \  tatah  sa  pa&um  utsrijya 
deva-ydnenajagmivdh  \  tatrdnuvamso  Rudrasya  tan  nihodha  Yudhishthira  | 
aydtayamam  sarvebhyo  Ihdgebhyo  IMgam  uttamam  \  devdh  sankalpayd- 
mdsw  Ihayad  Rudrasya  SdSvaia/n  \  imam  gdthdm  atra  gdyann  apah 
aprisati  yo  narah  |  deva-yano  'sya  panthdi  eha  chakahmhd  'bhiprahdSate  \ 

"  In  this  very  place,  0  king,  Eudra  seized  a  victim  air  a  sacrifice, 
and  having  done  so,  said, '  This  is  [my]  portion.'  When  he  had  seized 
the  victim,  the  gods  said  to  him,  '  Do  not  attack  the  property  of 
others  ;  do  not  covet  all  the  offerings.'  They  then  lauded  Rudra  with 
words  of  auspicious  import ;  and  having  satiated  him  with  an  oblation, 
they  paid  him  honour.  He  then  relinquished  the  victim,  and  departed 
by  the  path  of  the  gods.  Eeferring  to  this  is  the  following  traditional 
verse  of  Budra,  which  learn  from  me,  Yudhishthira :  '  Through  dread 
of  Eudra,  the  gods  allotted  to  him  for  ever  the  most  excellent  of  all 


РђбWOESHIP  OF  MAHADEVA  AND  OP  KRISHNA.  285 

portions,  the  ayatayama  (or  fresh  portion).  The  man  who,  here 
reciting  this  verse,  touches  the  waters,  obtains  a  distinct  yision  of  the 
path  leading  to  the  gods.' " 

In  the  same  Vana-parvan,  v.  8166,  it  is  said  that  Mahadeva  was 
worshipped  at  Gokarna,  on  the  west  coast  of  the  Dekhan : 

Atha   Golcarmm  asadya  trishu  loTceshu  viirutam  |   samudra-madhyej'^j 
rdjendra  sana-loha-namaslcritam  \  yatra  Brakmddayo  devdh  rishayai  chd 

ta<podhanah  \ 8169  :  Saritah  sagmrah  saildh  upasanta  Umd- 

patim  I  ityadi  I  "  Then  having  reached  Gokarna,  renowned  in  the 
three  worlds,  standing  in  the  sea,  adored  by  all  worlds,  where  Brahma 
and  the  other  gods,  and  rishis  rich  in  austerity,"  [various  other  kinds 
of  beings  are  here  enumerated,  Bhutas,  Takshas,  etc.,  etc.],  "rivers, 
oceans,  and  mountains  worshipped  the  lord  of  Uma  (Mahadeva)." 

The  same  place  is  also  mentioned  in  the  Eamopakhyana  of  the  Yana- 
parvan,  v.  15999  f. : 

Trihutam  samatihramya  Kalapmrvatam  eva  cha  |  dadwria  makardvdmm  ;' 
gamhhlrodam  mahodadldm  \  tarn,  atltydlha  Goka/rnam  dbhyagachhat  ~ 
Daidnanah  \  dayitam  sthdnam  avyagram  S'ulapdner  mahdtmanah  \ 
"Having  passed  Trikuta,  and  the  Black  Mountain,  he  (Eavana)  saw 
the  deep  ocean,  the  abode  of  marine  monsters.  Having  crossed  it,  he 
then  approached  Gokarna,  the  beloved  undisturbed  abode  of  the  mighty 
wielder  of  the  trident." 

[The  same  Tirtha-yatra,  however,  from  which  the  passages  preceding 
the  last  are  taken,  contains  the  following  lines  celebrating  Krishna : 

Vana-parvan,  v.  8349  f. Рђћ Punyd  Dvaravatl  tatra  yatrdsau  Madhusu- 
danah  \  sakshdd  devah  purSno  'sau  sa  hi  dharmah  sandtanah  |  ye  cha  veda- 
vido  viprah  ye  ohddhydtma-vido  jandh  \  te  vadanti  mahdtmdnam  Krishnam 
dharmam  sandtanam  \  pavitrdndm  hi  Govindah  pavitram  pa/ram  uehyate  \ 
punydndm  api punyo  ^sau  mangaldndm  cha  mangalam  \  trailolcye  Punda- 
rikdksho  deva-devah  sandtanah  \  cmyaydtrnd  vyaydtmd  cha  kshetrajnah 
parameivarah  \  dste  Ha/rir  aohintydtmd  tatraiva  Madhusudanah  \ 
"  There  is  the  holy  Dvaravatl  where  that  Madhusiidana  [abides],  that 
manifest,  ancient. god;  for  he  is  the  eternal  righteousness.  Brahmans 
who  know  the  Veda,  and  who  know  the  supreme  spirit,  call  the  mighty 
Krishna  the  eternal  righteousness.  Govinda  is  called  the  supremely 
pure  among  the  pure,  the  holy  among  the  holy,  the  blessed  among  the 
blessed.    In  the  three  worlds  the  lotus-eyed  is  the  eternal  god  of  gods, 


286  MAHADEVA  РќаWORSHIPPED  BY  JATADEATHA, 

the  undecaying  in  essence,  and  the  decaying,  the  conscious  occupant  of 
the  body,  the  supreme  lord.  There  the  inconceivable  Hari,  Madhusu- 
dana,  abides."] 

The  following  passages  supply  some  further  instances  of  the  worship 
of  Mahadeva  by  personages  introduced  in  the  poem  : 

Adi-parvan,  v.  7049. Рђћ Eiiafn  tesham  vilapatam,  vipranam  vwidhah 
girah  \  Arjuno  dhanusho  'hhyase  tasthau  girir  ivdchalah  \  m  tad  dhmuh 
parihramya  pradakshinam  athdkwrot  \  pranamya  Sirasd  devam  lidnam 
varadam  prabhum  |  Kruhnarh  cha  manasa  Icritva  jagrihe  chdrjimo 
dhanuh  \  yat  parthwaih  Rulcmi- Sunitha-  Vahtraih  Rddli^ya-Buryodhma- 
S'alya-S'dhaih  \  iadd  dhanur-veda-pwrair  nrUiihhaik  kritam  na  safyam 
mahafo  'pi  yatndt  \  tad  Arjunah  ityddi  \  "  While  the  Brahmans  thus 
uttered  various  speeches,  Arjuna  stood  firm  as  a  mountain,  trying  the 
bow.  He  then  made  a  circuit  round  it,  bowing  down  in  reverence  to 
the  boon-bestowing  lord  I^ana  (Mahadeva) ;  and  having  meditated  on 
Krishna,^''  Arjuna  seized  the  bow.  And  that  bow  which  the  lion-like 
Mngs  Rukmin,  Sunitha  (S'i^upala),  Vaktra,  Radheya,  Duryodhana, 
S'alya,  and  S'alva,  skilled  in  archery,  could  not  with  great  effort  bend 
[so  as  to  fix  the  bowstring],  Arjuna  bent,  and  hit  the  mark,"  etc.,  etc. 

In  the  Yana-parvan,  vv.  15777,  it  is  related  that  Jayadratha,  after 
being  captured  by  Bhishma  and  released  at  the  request  of  Tudhishthira, 
went  to  worship  Mahadeva  (v.  15801) : 

Jagdma  rdjan  duhkharto  Gangddvdrdya  Bhdrata  \  sa  devam  iaranam 
gatvd  mrupdhham  Umdpatim  \  tapas  ehachdra  vipulam  tasya  prito 
Vrishadhvajah  \  halim  avayam  pratyagrihndt  prlyamdnas  TrilocJianah  \ 
va/ram  ohdsmai  dadau  devah  sa  jagrdha  cha  taeh  chhrinu  \  "  Samastdn 
sa/rathdn pancha  jayeyam  yudhi  Pdndavdn"  |  iti  rdjd  'hravid  devam  neti 
devas  tarn  ahravU  \  ajayyamk  chdpy  dbadhydmk  cha  vdrayishyasi  tan 
yudhi  I  rite  Wjunam  mahabahum  Naram  ndma  sureharam  \  Vaddrydm 
tapta-tapasam  Ndrdyana-sahdyakam  \  ajitam  sarva-lokdndm  devair  api 
dMrdsadam  \  mayd  dattam  pd&wpatam  divyam  apratimam  iaram  \  avdpa 
lokapdlebhyo  vcyrddln  sa  mahdiardn  \  deva-devo  hy  anantdtmd  Vishnuh 
sura-guruh  pralhuh  \  pradhdna-purusho  'vyaMah  vi&vatmd  viha-murti- 
mdn  I  yugdntakdle  samprdpte  kdldgnir  dahate  jagat  \  sa-parvatdrnava- 
dvlpam  sa-iaila-vana-kdnanam  \ 

291  Lassen  (Indian  Antiquities,  Tol.  i.,  p.  646,  first  ed. ;  p.  794,  second  ed.)  regards 
this  reference  to  Krishna  as  a  later  interpolation  in  the  older  story. 


PAEAS'UEAMA,  AND  JAEASANDHA.  287 

* 

"  He  went,  0  king,  distressed  with  grief,  to  Gangadvara  (Haridvara). 
There,  resorting  to  the  distorted-eyed  lord  of  Uma  as  his  refuge,  he 
practised  long  austerities.  Gratified  with  this,  the  three-eyed  god, 
whose  ensign  is  a  bull,  himself  received  his  oblation,  and  offered  him  a 
boon,  which  he  accepted.  Hear  how  [he  did  so].  The  king  (Jaya- 
dratha)  said  to  the  god,  '  May  I  vanquish  all  the  five  Pandavas  with 
their  chariots  in  battle.'  The  god  said,  'No;  Рђбthou  shalt  withstand 
them  all,  though  they  are  unconquerable  and  not  to  be  slain,  excepting 
only  the  great-armed  Aijuna,  who  is  called  Nara,  the  lord  of  the  gods, 
who  performed  austerity  at  Badari,  attended  by  Narayana,  who  is 
invincible  by  all  the  worlds,  and  irresistible  even  by  the  gods.  He 
obtained  the  Pasupata,  a  divine,  incomparable  missile,  given  by  me, 
and  thunderbolts  and  other  great  weapons  from  the  guardians  of  the 
worlds.  JFor  the  infinite  Vishnu,  the  god  of  gods,  the  chief  of  the  deities, 
the  chief  spirit  (Purusha),  the  undiscernible,  the  soul  of  all  things,  the 
universal-formed,  at  the  end  of  the  yuga  burns  up  the  world,  with  its 
mountains,  oceans,  continents,  rocks  and  forests."  Mahadeva  then  goes 
on  to  relate  how  the  destruction  and  the  restoration  of  the  world  is 
effected  by  Vishnu,  and  describes  his  various  incarnations.  He  con- 
cludes by  saying  that  Arjuna  who  was  aided  by  him  could  not  be 
conquered  even  by  the  gods.  In  this  legend  it  will  be  observed  that 
the  warrior  goes  to  worship  Mahadeva,  and  not  Vishnu,  though  the 
latter  is  represented  as  being  magnified  by  the  rival  deity.  But  this 
part  of  the  story  may  be  interpolated. 

In  the  S'anti'parvan  also  (vv.  1748  f),  it  is  related  how  Parasurama 
worshipped  Mahadeva  on  the  mountain  Gandhamadana,  and  obtedned 
his  celebrated  axe,  by  which  he  became  renowned  in  the  world  {tosha- 
yitva  Mdhadevam  parvate  Gandhamddane  |  astrani  varayamasa  para&mh 
chati-tejasam  |  sa  tenakuntha-dharena  jvalitanala-va/rohasa  \  hutharend- 
jprameyena  lokeshv  apratimo  'hfiavat).  Then  follows  the  story  of 
Kartavirya  (see  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  450,  478). 

In  the   following  passage,  Jarasandha  is  introduced  as  a  zealous 
votary  of  Mahadeva.      Tudhishthira  had  been  purposing  to  celebrate  a 
Eajasuya  sacrifice,  which  presupposed  that  he  was  the  most  powerful        (f- 
of  contemporary  monarchs;  but  Krishna  in  the  following  words  tells 
him  that  he  cannot  do  so  while  Jarasandha  lives : 

Sabha-parvan,  v.  626. Рђћ Na  tu  sa/cyam  Jarasandhejlvamdne  mahdhah  \  Ji-  l*^' 


288  JAEASANDHA  WISHES  TO  SACRIFICE  CAPTIVES  TO  MAHADEVA, 

rajmuyam  tvaya  'vaptum  esha  rajan  matir  mama  \  tena  ntddhdh  hi 
rajanalj,  sarve  jitva  Qirivraje  \  Jcandare  parvatendrasya  simheneva  mahd- 
dvipah  I  sa  hi  raja  Jarasandho  yiyakshur  vasudhadhipaih  \  Mahadevam 
mahdfmdnam  Umapatim  arindama  \  arddhya  tapasogrena  nirjitas  tena 
pdrthivd]}  \  pratijndydi  cha  pdram  sa  gatah  pdrthvoa-sattamah  (  sa  hi 
nirjitya  nirjilya  pdrthivdn  pritanagatdn  \  puram  dniya  baddhvd  cha 
ehahara  purusha-vrajam  \  vayam  chaiva  mahdrdja  Jardsandha-bhaydt 
tadd  I  Mathurdm  sampa/rityajya  gatdh  Dvaravatlm  purim  \ 

"But  whilst  tie  powerftil  Jarasandlia  lives,  a  Eajasuya  sacrifice 
cannot  be  attained  by  th.ee ;  such,  king,  is  my  opinion.  For  aR  the 
kings  have  been  conquered,  and  are  imprisoned  by  him  in  Gririvraja,  as 
elephants  by  a  lion  in  a  cave  of  a  great  mountain.  Tor  this  monarch 
Jarasandha  desired  to  sacrifice  to  the  glorious  Mahadeva,  the  lord  of 
Uma,  with  these  kings  [as  victims]  ;  and  they  were  conquered  by  him 
after  he  had  worshipped  the  god  with  dreadful  austerities.  And  this 
eminent  prince  has  attained  to  the  accomplishment  of  his  design. 
For  after  repeatedly  conquering  the  princes  who  had  come  against 
him  in  battle,  he  has  brought  them  to  his  capital,  confined  them,  and 
made  them  a  human  herd.  And  we  too,"  (confesses  Krishna)  "from 
dread  of  Jarasandha,  deserted  Mathura,  and  went  to  the  city  of 
Dvaravati." 
Krishna  returns,  a  little  farther  on,  to  Jarasandha's  cruelty  to  the  kings: 
Sabha-parvan,  v.  653. Рђћ Ratna-hhdjo  hi  rdjdno  Jardsandham  upasate  \ 
na  cha  iushyati  tendpi  hdlydd  anayam  dsthitah  |  murdhdlhishikiam 
nripatim  pradhdna-purusho  baldt  \  ddatte  na  cha  no  drishto  'bhdgah 
purushatah  kvachit  |  evam  sarvdn  mh  chalcre  Jardsandhah  Mdvardn  \  tarn 
durbala-paro  rdjd  katham  Pdrtha  upaishyati  |  prokshitdndm  pramriah- 
tdndm """  raj'ndm  Pasupater  grihe  \  paiundm  ivd  kd  prltirjwite  Bharat- 
arshabha  \  "For  jewelled  kings  wait  upon  Jarasandha;  and  yet  he  is 
not  contented  even  with  that,  having  through  folly  become  imprudent. 
A  prince  seizes  by  force  a  consecrated  king,  and  we  do  not  see  that 
he  has  failed  to  master  any  mortal  anywhere."^'      In  this  manner 

**2  Xhe  commentator's  remark  on  this  is  as  follows :  I'ramrisManam  |  Rudra-daiv- 
atyo  'yam  iti  pratyekam  abhtmrishtanam  \ 

283  These  words  are  explained  by  the  commentator  in  the  aboTe  sense :  Jarasandhena 
abhagah  asvilcritah  \  purmhatah  murdhabhishikteshu  pumsheshu  \  tena  sarve  vas'ik- 
ritah  ity  arthah  \  ^^  Abhagah  means  '  unappropriated '  by  Jarasandha.  Furitshatah 
means  '  among  anointed  kings.'    The  sense  is,  that  '  all  haye  been  subdued  by  him.'  " 


KRISHNA  REBUKES  JAEASANDHA.  289 

Jaraeandha  has  reduced  to  subjection  in  all  at  least  a  hundred  persons; 
hov,  then,  can  a  feeble  prince  approach  him?  What  pleasure  can 
those  princes  have  in  existence,  Рќаwhen  they  have  been  sprinkled  for 
slaughter  and  devoted  as  victims  like  beasts  in  the  temple  of  Pasupati 
(Mahadeva)?" 

Krishna  afterwards  proceeds  to  Jarasandha's  capital  with  Bhima  and 
Arjuna,  with  the  view  of  slaying  their  enemy.  They  are  admitted  to 
his  palace  in  the  disguise  of  Brahmans,  and  after  some  conversation, 
Krishna  says  to  Jarasandha : 

Sabha-parvan,  w.  861  ff. Рђћ Tvaya  chopahritah  rajan  Icshatriyah  loJca-  H?  '^  Рќа(( 
vdsinah  \  tad  dgah  hruram  utpadya  manyase  Mm  anagasam  \  raja  rajnah  1 1 

haiham  sadhun  Mmsyad  nripati-sattama  \  yad  rajnah  sannigrihya  tvarh 
Itudrayopajihlrshasi  \  asmams  tad  enopagachchhet  hritam  Varhadratha 
tvaya  I  vayam  hi  iaktah  dharmasya  rahshane  dharmacharinah  \  manushya- 
nam  samalanibho  na  oha  drishtah  kaddchana  |  sa  Icatjiam  manushair  devam 
yashtum   ichhasi   S'anharam  \  savarno   hi   savarndnam^'^  pasu-sanjnam 

^^*  On  this  the  commentator  remarks:  Jfanu  "  Brahmane  irahmanam  alahheta" 
ityadina  sarva-Jattyanam  sarva-karmandm  manushyanam  alamhho  devatartham  ba^ 
dhah  sruyate  ity  ascmhya  aha  savarno  hi  iti  \  "  But  is  not  the  immolation, Рђћ the 
slaughter  as  an  offering  to  a  god, Рђћ of  men  of  all  classes,  and  all  occupations,  enjoined 
in  such  Vedic  texts  as  this,  '  let  him  immolate  a  Brahmana  to  Brahman,'  etc.  ? 
Having  raised  this  doubt,  he  says,  '  For  thou,  helonging  to  the  same  tribe,'  etc." 

Texts  such  as  that  here  quoted  by  the  commentator  occur  in  the  Taitt.  Br.,  iii.  4,  1, 1  ff. 
[Brahmane  brahmanam  alabkate  ityadi  \  "  He  sacrifices  a  Brahmana  to  Brahman," 
etc.,  etc.)  and  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita,  xxx.  5  ff.  {Brahmane  brahmanam  ityadi). 
In  regard  to  the  question  whether  human  sacrifices  were  practised  in  the  earliest 
Vedic  age,  see  Prof.  Hang,  as  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  wort,  p.  11,  and  in 
the  second  volume,  p.  463  ;  the  story  of  S'unas's'epa,  adduced  in  vol.  i.,  pp.  355  ff. ; 
Prof.Miiller's  Ancient  Sanskrit  Literature,  pp.  419  f. ;  Prof.  Weber's  paper  in  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  xviii.,  pp.  262  ff.  (reprinted  in  his 
Indische  Streifen,  i.,  pp.  54  ff.).  The  two  last-named  writers  quote  texts  from  the 
Aitareya  Brahmana,  ii.,  8,  and  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.,  2,  3,  6,  which  I  shall 
here  cite.  The  former  begins  thus :  Furushain  vai  devah  pas'um  alabhanta  |  tasmad 
alabdhad  medhah  Рќаudairamat  \  so  'svam  pravis'at  |  tasmad  asvo  medhyo  'bhamt  \  atha 
enam  utkranta-medham  atyarjanta  \  sa  kimpwusho  'bhavat  |  te  'svam  alabhanta \  so 
'ivad  alabdhad  udakramat  |  sa  gam  praviiat  \  tasmSd  gaw  medhyo  'bhavat  \  atha 
enam  utkranta-nudham  atydrjamta  sa  Cfiuramrigo  'bhavat  \  te  gam  alabhanta  |  sa 
gor  alabdhad  udakramat  |  so  'vim  pravisat  |  "The  gods  sacrificed  a  man  as  a  victim. 
After  he  had  been  sacrificed,  the  sacrifioiai  element  went  out  of  him.  It  entered  into 
the  horse,  which  consequently  became  suitable  for  sacrifice.  They  then  dismissed 
the  man,  after  the  sacrificial  element  had  left  him ;  and  he  became  a  kimpurusha," 
[probably  an  ape,  according  to  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  vol.  ii.,  p.  228,  and 
vol.  v.,  p.  1296 ;  with  whom  "Weber  agrees,  Ind.  Stud.,  ix,,  246.     "  The  author  very 

vol..  IT.  19 


290  KRISHNA  EEBUKES  JARlSANDHA, 

harishyasi  \  Ico  ^nyah  evam  yatha  Id  ivam  Jardsandha  vritM-matih  |  yaS" 
yam  yasydm  avasthayam  yat  yat  Jcarma  karoti  yah  |  tasyam  tasydm 
avasthdyam  tat-phalam  samavdpnuyat  |  te  tvdmjndti-khsaya-karam  vayam 
drtdnusarinah  \  jndU-vriddhi-nimiUdrtham,  vmihantum  ihdgatdh  |  .  .  .  , 
Jarasandha  uvdcha  ....  882  :  Devatdrtham  updhritya  rdjnah  Krishna 
katham  Ihayat  \  aham  adya  vimvchyeyafn  kshdtram  vratam  anusmaran  \ 
"Thou,  king,  hast  devoted  [to  Mahadeva]  Kshatriyas  dwellers  in. 
this  world.  Having  devised  this  cruel  iniquity,  dost  thou  regard  thy- 
self as  guiltless  ?  How  should  a  king  slaughter  virtuous  kings  ?  Inas- 
much as  thou  hast  confined  kings,  and  seekest  to  offer  them  up  to 
Eudra,  the  guilt  committed  by  thee,  son  of  Vrihadratha,  would  attach 
to  us.  For  we  who  practise  righteousness  are  able  to  protect  righteous- 
ness. And  [such  a  thing  as]  the  immolation  of  men  has  never  been 
seen;  How  [then]  dost  thou  seek  to  sacrifice  to  the  god  S'ankara 
with  human  victims  ?    For  thou,  belonging  to  the  same  tribe  [as  those 

likely  means  a  dwarf,"  Haug's  transl.  of  the  Ait.  Br.,  p.  90,  note;  MuUer  regards 
the  word  as  meaning  "a  savage."]  "They  sacrificed  the  horse,  from  which  the 
sacrificial  element  then  departed,  and  entered  into  the  ox,  which  consequently  hecame 
fit  for  sacrifice.  They  then  dismissed  the  horse  out  of  which  the  sacrificial  element 
had  departed,  and  it  became  a  white  deer.  They  next  sacrificed  the  ox,  from  which 
the  sacrificial  element  then  departed,  and  entered  into  the  sheep,"  etc.  The  same 
thing  happens  to  the  goat  (in  which  the  sacrificial  element  remained  longest),  then 
to  the  earth,  in  which  it  (the  thing  fit  for  sacrifice),  when  followed  by  the  gods, 
became  rice. 

On  this  Prof.  MUller  remarks :  "  The  drift  of  this  story  is  most  likely  that  in 
former  times  all  these  victims  had  been  offered.  We  know  it  for  certain  in  the  case 
of  horses  and  oxen,  though  afterwards  these  sacrifices  were  discontinued." 

The  text  from  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.,  2,  3,  6,  is  as  follows :  Purusham  ha 
vai  devak  agre  ptzsum.  alebhire  \  tasya  aJabdhctsya  medho  'pachakrama  [  so  ^s'vam 
pravive^a  \  te  ^svam  alabhanta  \  tasya  alahdhasya  medho  ^pachakrama  sa  gam  pra- 

vivesa  |  te  gam  a |  so  'vim  pravives'a  |  ┬Бe  'vim  a |  so  'Jam  pravivesa  |  te  'jam 

alabhanta  \  tasya  alabdhasya  medho  'pachakrama  |  7  |  *┬Ф  imam  prithivtm  praviveia  \ 

tarn  khanantah  iva  anvishuh  \  tam  anvavindams  tav  imau  vrihi-yavnu  \ 

sa  yavad-vlryavad  ha  vai  asya  ete  sarve  panavah  alabdhah  syus  tavad-v'iryavad  ha 
asya  havir  bhavati  yah  evam  veda  \  "  The  gods  formerly  offered  up  a  man  as  a 
victim.  The  sacrificial  element  left  him  when  he  had  been  sacrificed  and  entered 
into  the  horse.  They  offered  up  the  horse;  thereupon  the  sacrificial  element  went  out 
of  him  and  entered  into  the  ox."  The  same  thing  happens  with  the  ox,  and  then 
with  the  sheep  and  the  goat  successively.  "  The  sacrificial  element  went  out  of  the 
goat,  and  (7)  entered  the  earth.    Digging,  they  searched  for  it,  and  found  it  (the 

thing  fit  for  sacrifice)  in  the  shape  of  rice  and  barley An  oblation  of  these 

grains  has  as  much  efficacy,  for  him  who  knows  this  fact,  as  resides  in  all  these 
victims  when  sacrificed." 


AND  SLATS  HIM.    STOET  OF  JARASANDHA'S  BIRTH.        291 

priaees],  wilt  designate  as  victims  men  of  thine  own  tribe.  'What 
other  person,  Jarasandha,  is  so  foolish  as  thou?  Whosoever,  in  any 
condition,  perpetrates  any  particular  act,  will  reap  the  fruit  of  it  in 
that  particular  condition.  We,  the  avengers  of  the  afflicted,  seeking 
the  welfare  of  our  kindred,  have  come  hither  to  slay  thee,  the  de-r 
stroyer  of  thy  kindred."  Krishna,  then,  after  some  further  arguments, 
calls  upon  Jarasandha  either  to  liberate  the  kings,  or  to  submit  to  be 
destroyed  in  combat.  Jarasandha  (v.  880)  says  he  has  conquered  the 
kings,  and  has  a  right  to  act  as  he  is  doing.  He  adds  (v.  882):  "How, 
Krishna,  can  I,  who  have  devoted  the  kings  to  the  god,  remembering 
my  duty  as  a  Kshatriya,  to-day  release  them  through  fear?"  He  then 
accepts  the  challenge,  and  is  kiUed  by  Bhimasena. 

The  birth  of  Jarasandha  is  thus  related  in  the  Sabha-parvan ;  and  the 
narrative  contains  at  the  close  a  reference  to  his  being  a  worshipper  of 
Mahadeva.  'His  father,  Trihadratha,  had  two  wives,  who,  after  having 
been  long  barren,  at  length  bore  him  two  halves  of  a  boy  (v.  711), 
which,  being  regarded  with  horror,  were  thrown  out  (v.  714).  A 
female  demon  (Rakshasi)  named  Jara,  an  eater  of  flesh,  takes  them  up 
(v.  715),  and  puts  them  together  in  order  that  they  may  be  more  easily 
carried  away.  A  boy  is  thus  formed  who  cries ;  and  people  in  con- 
sequence come  out  of  the  inner  apartments  of  the  palace,  and  among 
them  the  two  queens  and  the  king.  The  Eakshasi  assumes  a  human 
shape,  and  gives  the  child  to  the  king,  who  then  asks  who  she  is.  She 
replies  (vv.  729  ff.) : 

Jara-ndmd  'smi  Ihaclram  te  Rakshasi  Tcama-rupini  \  twoa  vesmani  rajen-  ^)  ^  ' 
dra  pujita  nyavasam  suMam  \  grihe  grihe  manushyandm  nityam  tishthami 
rakshasi  \  griha-devUi  namna  vai  purd  srishta  Svayamhhimd  j  ddnavdndm 
vinaidya  stltdpitd  divya-rupini  \  yo  mam  hhaktya  likhet  kudye  saputrdm 
yauvandnvitdm  \  grihe  tasye  Ihaved  vriddhir  anyathd  kshayam  apnuydt  \ 
tvad-grihe  tishthamdnd  tu  pujitd  ''ham  sadd  vibho  \  likhitd  chaiva  kudye 
'ham  putrair  hahulhir  dvritd  \  gandha-pushpais  tathd  dhupair  hhakshyavr 
thojyaih  supujitd  \  sd  'ham  pratyvpakdrdrtham  ehintaydmy  aniSam  tma  \ 
taveme  putra-^akale  drishtavaty  asmi  dhdrmiha  \  samSleshite  mayd  daivdt 
kumdrah  samapadyata  \  tava  hhdgydd  mahdraja  hetu-mdtram  aham  tv 
iha  I  Merum  vd  khdditum  iaktd  Mm  punas  tava  hdlakam  \  griha-sampu- 
j'andt  tushtyd  mayd  pratyarpitas  tava  \ 

"I  am,  bless  thee,  a  Eakshasi  named  Jara,  who  can  change  my  shape 


292  WOSSHIP  OP  THE  EAKSHASI  JAEA. 

at  will.  Worshipped  in  thy  house,  I  have  dwelt  there  in  comfort. 
Named  the  house-goddess,  I  dwell  constantly  in  every  separate  hoase 
of  men,  having  been  created  of  old  by  Svayambhu;  and  placed  [there], 
of  celestial  form,  for  the  destruction  of  the  Danavas.  Prosperity  will 
remain  in  the  house  of  that  man  who  devoutly  paints  me  in  a  youthful 
form,  together  with  my  sons,  upon  his  wall; Рђћ otherwise  he  shall  decay. 
Abiding  in  thy  house,  0  king,  and  continually  reverenced,  painted  upon 
the  waU,''"^  surrounded  by  my  numerous  sons,  worshipped  with  odours 
and  flowers,  with  incense,  and  various  kinds  of  food,  I  continually 
consider  how  I  may  benefit  thee  in  return.  I  saw,  righteous  prince, 
these  two  pieces  of  thy  son;  I  put  them  together  by  chance,  and  a 
boy  was  produced,  through  thy  good  fortune,  0  great  king,  and  I  was 
merely  the  instrument.  I  could  devour  mount  Meru,  much  more  thy 
son :  but  being  gratified  by  the  domestic  worship  1  have  received,  I 
have  restored  him  to  thee." 

The  Eakshasi  then  disappears.  King  Vrihadratha  orders  a  great 
festival  to  be  celebrated  among  the  people  of  Magadha  in  her  honour; 
and  calls  the  boy  Jarasandha,  because  he  had  been  put  together  {san- 
dhitah)  by  the  Eakshasi  Jara  (v.  738.  Ajnapayaoh  oha  rakshasyah 
Magadheshu  mahotsavam  \  tasya  namakaroch  chaiva  Pitamaha-samah 
pita  I  Jarayd  sandJdto  yasmaj  Jarasandho  hhavatv  ayam).  The  rishi 
Chandakausika  arrives  on  a  certain  occasion  in  the  country  of  the  Maga- 
dhas,  and  prophesies  the  future  greatness  of  Jarasandha  (vv.  745  S.). 
He  ends  by  saying  that  this  mighty  prince  of  Magadha  should  have 
a  manifest  vision  of  Kudra,  Mahadeva,  Hara,  the  destroyer  of  Tripura 
(v.  753.  Mha  Rvdram  Mahddevam  lripwanta-kara0i  Saram  \  sa/rva- 
lokesho  atihalo  aakshdd  drakshyati  MagadhaK). 

The  description  here  given  by  the  Eakshasi  of  the  worship  paid  to 
herself,  furnishes,  as  Lassen  (who  quotes  it,  i.  609,  first  ed. ;  p.  755, 
second  ed.)  remarks,  an  instance  of  the  local  adoration  of  particular 
deities  in  ancient  India. 

In  the  account  given  of  the  transactions  connected  with  the  Eajasuya 
sacrifice  which  Tudhishthira  sought  to  celebrate,  we  find  (as  Lassen, 
i.  673,  fiist  ed, ;  p.  821,  second  ed.,  remarks)  the  Pandavas  represented 
as  the  partisans  of  Krishna ;  and  this  legendary  narrative  may  perhaps 

*85  Lassen  remarks,  vol.  i.,  p.  755,  note,  that  this  is  one  of  the  oldest  references 
in  Indian  literatur'e  to  images  of  the  gods. 


_^ 


GREAT  SACaiPICE  TO  VISHNU.  293 

be  taken  as  an  inaication  that  they  actually  were  the  votaries  of 
Vishnu,  and  opposed  to  the  worship  of  Mahadeva.  In  the  Рќа  story  of 
S'i^upala,  which  has  been  given  above  (pp.  205  S.),  we  have  seen  that, 
in  the  assembly  of  ^princes  who  were  gathered  together'on  the  occasion 
of  that  ceremonial,  Krishna's  claims  to  veneration  were  strongly  main- 
tained by  the  Pandavas,  and  others  who  took  their  side,  while  they 
were  strenuously  resisted  by  S'i^upala,  an  adherent  of  the  Kaufavas,  (^ 
and,  according  to  Lassen,'''*  a  representative  of  the  S'aiva  worship. 
The  same  opposition  to  the  worship  of  Krishna  was,  as  I  have  already 
noticed,  manifested  by  Duryodhana,  Karna,  and  S'alya  (pp.  216,  218, 
220,  etc.). 

It  is  true  that  there  is  one  passage  (referred  to  above,  p.  283,  note 
280),  to  which  Lassen  has  drawn  attention,  in  which  Duryodhana  is 
represented  as  having  offered  up  a  sacrifice  to  Vishnu;  and  as  this 
legend  exhibits  some  features  of  interest,  I  shall  give  some  account  of  it 
here.  In  the  Vana-parvan,  1S274  ff.,  Karna,  after  having  conquered  the 
earth,  says  to  Duryodhana  that  the  earth  was  now  his,  and  he  should 
rule  over  it  like  Indra.  Duryodhana  answers  that  he  wished  to  celebrate 
a  Eajasiiya  sacrifice.  Karna  replies  that  he  should  make  prepara;tion 
for  that  purpose  (15278  ff.).  Duryodhana  then  sends  for  his  priest 
(purohita),  whom  he  desires  to  perform  the  sacrifice  (15284).  The 
priest,  however,  states  that  the  Eajasiiya  sacrifice  cannot  be  celebrated 
by  Duryodhana  while  Tudhishthira  lives,  and  while  his  own  father, 
Dhritarashtra,  survives  (15285  ff.);  but  he  suggests  that  there  isahother 
great  sacrifice  which  Duryodhana  may  offer  (15287  ff.): 

AsU  tv  anyad  mahat  satram  rajaswya-samam  prabTio  \  tena  tvam  yaja 
rajendra  ^rinu  chedam  vacho  mama  |  ye  ime  pvithwi-palah  hara-das  tava 
parthiva  \  te  haran  samprayachhantu  swarnancha  hritalcritam  |  tena  le 
kriyalam,  adya  langalam  nripa-sattama  \  yajna-vatasya  te  hhumih 
kr  My  atom  tena  Bh&rata  |  tatra  yajno  ntipa-ireshtha  prahhutannah 
susaffiskritah  \  pravOrtatam  yathanydyam  sarvato  hy  anwaritah  \  esha  te 
Vaishnavo  nama  yajnah  satpwushoohitah  |  etena  neshtavan  ha^chid  rite 
Vishmm  ptir&tanam  |  raj'asuyam  Jcratu-^reshtJiam  spardMty  e&ha 
mahakratuh  \  "But  there  is  another  great  ceremonial  equal  to  the 
Eajasiiya,  with  which,  0  great  king,  do  thou  sacrifice  :  and  hear  this 
which  I  have  to  say.     Let  those  princes  who  are  your  tributaries 

286  See  above,  p.  211,  note  210. 


294  DtTRYODHANA  SACRIFICES  TO  VISHNIT. 

present  to  you  tieir  contributions,  and  gold  both  wrought  and  un- 
wrought.  With  this  let  a  plough  be  to-day  made,  an'd  with  it  let  the 
ground  of  thy  sacrificial  ihclosure  be  ploughed.  There  let  a  sacrifice, 
well  arranged,  and  with  abundant  food,  be  duly  celebrated ;  for  it  wUl 
be  completely  unobstructed.  This  is  to  thee  the  Vaishnava  sacrifice 
(the  sacrifice  of  Vishnu),  a  ceremony  suitable  for  virtuous  men.  "With 
it  no  one  ever  sacrificed  except  the  ancient  Vishnu.'**'  This  great 
ceremonial  vies  with  the  Rajasuya,  the  most  excellent  of  sacrifices." 

Duryodhana  and  his  friends  consented  to  this  proposal  (15295  f.), 
and  the  sacrifice  was  accordingly  performed  (15301  ff.).  Amid  the 
rejoicings  which  followed  the  ceremony,  however,  some  foolish  persons 
said  to  Duryodhana  that  his  sacrifice  was  not  a  sixteenth  part  so  good 
as  Tudhishthira's  Eajasuya  sacrifice,  while  his  friends  said  that  this 
sacrifice  surpassed  all  other  ceremonies,  and  that  Tayati,  ITahusha, 
Mandhatri,  and  Bharata,  had  celebrated  this  rite,  and  had  in  con- 
sec[uence  gone  to  heaven  (15327  fi^.) :  Apare  tv  ahruvans  tatra  vdtikds 
tarn  mahipatim  \  Tudhishthirasya  yajnena  na  samo  hy  esha  te  kratu^  \ 
naiva  tasya  hrator  esha  kalam  arhati  shodaSim  \  eowm  tatrahruvan 
keohid  vatikas  tarn  janesvaram  \  mhridas  tv  ahruvans  tatra  ati  sarvdn 
ayam  kratv/r  ityadi  \ 

I  am  not  aware  of  any  passage  of  the  Mahabharata  in  which  Dur- 
yodhana is  represented  as  a  special  worshipper  of  Mahadeva ;  but  in  a 
passage  in  the  Karna-parvan,  quoted  above,  pp.  223  ff.,  (which,  however, 
I  have  supposed  may  be  a  later  interpolation)  he  is  declared  to  have 
narrated  a  legend  descriptive  of  Mahadeva's  prowess,  and  in  which 
Vishnu  is  generally  subordinated  to  his  rival.  Duryodhana  is  also  in 
two  passages  of  th┬Ф  Mahabharata  connected  (as  if  he  was  considered  to 
be  heretically  disposed)  with  a  Eakshasa  named  Charvaka,  and  is  re- 
presented as  his  friend  (S'anti-parvan,  1414-1442),  and  as  calling  him  to 
mind  after  he  has  received  his  death-blow,  and  expressing  a  belief  that 
if  once  informed  of  his  fate,  the  eloquent  mendicant  Charvaka  would 
perform  an  expiation  for  him  in  the  holy  lake  Samantapanchaka. 

I  subjoin  both  of  these  passages :  the  substance  of  the  first  is  given 
at  the  close  of  the  preceding  sentence. 

S'alya-parvan,  v.  3619;    Yadi  jan&ti  Charvaka^  parivrad  vag-vUa- 

'^  It  must,  according  to  this,  have  been  very  nncommon.  Further  on,  however, 
it  is  said  to  have  been  celebrated  by  Yayati  and  others. 


DURTODHANA'S  FRIENDSHIP  WITH  CHARVAKA.  295 

radah  \  Jcwriskyati  mahahaho  dhrwoafh,  oMpaehitam  mama  \  Samantapan- 
chake  punye  triahu  lokeshu  vUrute  | 

The  passage  from  the  S'anti-parvan,  v.  1414,  is  as  follows:  Niiialde 
eha  sthite  tatra  tato  vipra-jane  punah  \  rdjdnam  hrahmaita-ehhadma 
Charvaho  rakshaso  'bravit  \  tatra  Duryodhana-sakha  Ihikahu-rupena 
samvritah  \  sdkshah  iikhi  tridandl  cha  dhrishto  vigata-sadhvasah  \  vritah 
sarvais  tatha  viprair  ainnada-vivahsliubMh.  \  pa/ram  sahasraih  rdjendra 
tapo-niyama-samiritaih  \  sa  dushtah  papain  d&amiuh  Pdndavdndm  ma- 
hdtmandm  |  andmantryaiva  tan  mprdms  tarn  uvdeha  mahipatim  \  Chdr- 
vdkah  uvdeha  |  ime  prdhur  dvijdh  sarve  samdropya  vacho  mayi  \  dhig 
bha/vantam  kunripatirhjndti-ghdtinam  astu  vai  \  kirn  tena  sydd  hi  Kaunteya 
kritvemam  jndti-sankshayam  \  ghdtayitvd  gurumi  chaiva  mritafh  ireyo 
najivitam  \  iti  te  vai  dvijdh  irutvd  tasya  dushtaaya  rakahaaah  \  vivyathus 
ehukruiui  ehaiva  tasya  vdkya-pradharahitdh  \  tataa  te  brdhmandh  sarve  sa 
chardjd  YudhiahtMrah  |  vrlditdh  paramodvignds  tushnim  dsanvisdmpate\ 
Tudhishthirah  v/odcha  \  prasldantu  bhavanto  me  pranatasydbhiydehatah  | 
pratydsanna-vyaaaninam  na  mdm  dhikkartum  arhatha  \  VaiSampdyanah 
uvdeha  I  tato  rdj'an  brdhmanda  te  sarve  eva  vi^dmpate  \  uchur  naitad 
vacho  ^smdkam  drir  astu  tava  pdrthiva  \jajnu^  chaiva  mahdtmdnaa  tatas 
tu  jndna-chakshuahd  |  brdhmandh  veda-vidvdmsas  tapobhir  vimalikritdh  \ 
brdhmandh  uehuh  |  esha  Du/ryodhana-aakhd  Chdrvdko  nama  rakahaaah  \ 
parivrdjaka-rupena  hitam  taaya  chiklrshati  \  na  vayam  bruma  dharmdt- 
man  vyetu  te  bhayam  Idrihm  \  upatiahthatu  kalydnam  bhavantam  bhrd- 
tribhih  aaha  \  VaiSampdyanah  uvdeha  \  tataa  te  brdhmandh  sarve  hunka- 
raih  krodha-murehhitdh  \  nirbhartaayantah  hiehayo  nijaghnuh  pdpa- 
rdkshasam  ]  sa  papdta  vinirdagdhas  tejasd  brahmavadindm  \  mdhendrd- 
iani-nirdagdhah pddapo  'nktiravdn  iva  |  pujitd^  eha  yayur  viprdh  rdjdnam 
dbhinandya  tarn  |  rdjd  cha  harsham  dpede  Pdndavah  sa-suhrij-janal),  \ 
tatas  tatra  tu  rdjdnam  tishthantam  bhrdtrihhih  saha  \  uvdeha  Devaki- 
putrah  sarvadwril  Jandrdanah  \  Vdsudeva^  uvdeha  \  brdhmanda  idta  lake 
'sminn  arohaniydh  sadd  mama  \  ete  bhumichardh  devdh  vdg-viahdh  supra- 
addakdh  \  purd  Kritayuge  rdjami  Ohdrvdko  ndma  rakahaaah  \  tapaa  tepe 
mahdbdho  Vadarydm  bahuvdrahikam  \  varena  ehhandyamdnai  cha 
Brahmand  cha  punah  punah  \  abhayam  aarva-bhiltebhyo  varaydmdaa 
Bhdrata  \  dvijdvamdndd  anyatra  prdddd  varam  anuttamam  \  abhayam 
aarvabhutebhyo  dadau  tasmai  Prajdpatih  \  aa  tu  labdha-va/rah  pdpo  devdn 
amita-vikramaft  \  rdkahasaa  tdpaydmdaa  tlvrakarmd  mahdbalalj,  \  1414, 


296  CHARVAKA  IS  SLAIN  BY  THE  BEAHMANS. 

"  When  the  Brahmans  were  again  standing  silent,  the  Rakshasa  Char- 
vaka,  the  friend  of  Duryodhana,  a  pretended  Brahman,  in  the  garb  of 
a  mendicant,  with  a  rosary,  a  lock  of  hair  on  his  head,  carrying  three 
staves,  bold,  and  shameless,  addressed  the  king.  Surrounded  thus  by 
all  the  Brahmans,  thousands  in  number,  who  were  devoted  to  austere 
observances,  and  who  sought  to  utter  blessings,  this  wretch,  who  wished 
ill  to  the  great  Pandavas,  without  consulting  the  Brahmans,  thus  spoke 
to  the  monarch :  '  All  these  Brahmans,  assigning  the  speech  to  me, 
utter  an  imprecation  against  thee,  thou  wicked  king,  slayer  of  thy 
kindred.  What  can  come  of  this?  Since  thou  hast  destroyed  thy 
kinsmen,  and  slaughtered  thy  elders,  death  is  better  for  thee  than  life.' 
Hearing  the  words  of  this  wicked  Eakshasa,  the  Brahmans  were  pained, 
and  cried  out,  being  provoked  by  his  speech.  All  the  Brahmans  and 
king  Tudhishthira,  being  ashamed  and  extremely  vexed,  remained 
silent.  Then  Tudhishthira  said :  '  Let  all  your  reverences  be  gracious 
to  me,  who  bow  down,  and  supplicate  you.  You  ought  not  to  curse 
me,  who  have  so  recently  been  involved  in  calamity.'  All  the  Brahmans 
replied :  '  These  were  not  our  words :  prosperity  be  thine,  0  ting ! ' 
These  great  Brahmans,  learned  in  the  Veda,  purified  by  austerities, 
understood  by  the  eye  of  knowledge  (who  Charvaka  was).  They  said : 
'  This  is  a  Eakshasa  called  Charvaka,  the  friend  of  Duryodhana,  who 
has  assumed  the  form  of  a  wandering  mendicant,  and  desires  his 
weKare.  We  say  nothing  (of  what  he  pretends) ;  let  such  an  appre- 
hension pass  away  from  thee :  may  good  fortune  be  the  lot  of  thyself 
and  thy  brothers  ! '  The  holy  Brahmans  then,  furious  with  anger,  slew 
the  wicked  Eakshasa,  reviling  him  with  loud  menaces.  Burnt  up 
by  the  fervour  of  these  utterers  of  the  Veda,  he  fell,  like  a  sprouting 
tree  consumed  by  the  lightning  of  Indra.  The  Brahmans  honoured, 
departed,  after  saluting  the  king ;  and  the  Pandava  monarch  and  his 
friends  were  glad.  The  all-seeing  Janardana,  son  of  DevakT,  then  said 
to  the  king  as  he  stood  there  with  his  brothers :  '  The  Brahmans  are 
always  to  be  revered  by  me  in  this  world  :  they  are  gods  who  walk  on 
the  earth,  whose  words  are  poison,  and  also  beneficent.  Formerly,  in 
the  Krita  age,  a  Eakshasa  named  Charvaka  practised  austerity  for 
many  years  at  Badari.  Having  again  and  again  received  from  Brahma 
the  offer  of  any  boon  which  he  might  prefer,  he  chose  that  of  security 
against  all  creatures.     Prajapati  granted  the  incomparable  boon  which. 


^РђбJ> 


PtJRTTSHOTTAMA,  THE  PAUNDEA  VASUDEVA.  297 

he  asked,  on  condition  that  he  should  not  contemn  the  Brahmans.  But 
the  wicked  Eakshasa  of  boundless  valour,  fierce  in  act,  and  great 
in  force,  having  obtained  the  boon,  began  to  vex  the  gods.'"  The 
result  is  that  they  appeal  to  Brahma,  who  assures  them  that  he  has 
provided  for  the  speedy  death  of  Charvaka.  Duryodhana  will  become 
his  friend  ;  and  out  of  regard  to  him,  he  will  treat  the  Brahmans  with 
disrespect ;  and  they  wUl  destroy  him.     This  has  now  been  fulfilled.*'^ 

In  his  Indische  Studien,  i.  206,  Professor  Weber  conjectures  that 
"the  Kurus  may  have  been  the  representatives  of  the  Eudra  (=S'iva)- 
worship,  and  the  Pandus  or  Panchalas  of  the  Indra  (=Yishnu)- 
worship,"  and  this  supposition  seems  to  derive  support  from  the  con- 
siderations which  have  just  been  adduced. 

The  following  passage  from  the  Sabha-parvan  (where  Krishna  is  deVi  .^^ 
scribing  to  Tudhishthira  the  different  partisans  of  Jarasandha)  appears*^ 
as  if  it  contained  a  tradition  indicating  some  struggle,  at  a  period  ante- 
cedent to  that  of  the  writer,  between  the  worship  of  Vishnu,  and  that 
of  some  local  deity  who  was  venerated  in  the  provinces  east  of  Magadha. 

Jaraaandham  gatas  tv  eva  pwra  yo  na  maya  hatah  \  Purushottama- 
mjnato  yo  'sau  Chedishu  durmatih  \  atmdnam  pratijdnati  lake  'smin 
Fwroshottamam  \  adatte  satatam  mohad  yah  sa  chihnam  cha  mamakam  | 
Vanga-Pundra-Kirateshu  raja  lala-samanvitah  \  Paundraho  Vasudeveti 
yo  'sau  loke  'hhivUrutah  \  "And  he  who  formerly  was  not  slain  by  me, 
has  also  taken  the  side  of  Jarasandha  Рђћ(I  mean)  the  wicked  man  who 
is  known  as  Purushottama  among  the  Chedis,  who  in  this  world  pro- 
fesses himself  to  be  Purushottama,  who  through  infatuation  continually 
assumes  my  mark Рђћ He  who  is  a  powerful  king  among  the  Bangas, 
Pundras,  and  Kiratae,  and  is  celebrated  in  the  world  as  the  Vasudeva 
of  the  Pundras.'*'    He  is  mentioned  also  Adip.  v,  6992. 


''^  Both  passages  had  been  previously  translated  by  me  in  the  Journal  of  the  Eoyal 
Asiatic  Society,  vol.  xix.,  pp.  308  f.  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  any  other  text 
in  the  Mahabharata  in  which  the  connexion  of  Duryodhana  with  this  Charvaka 
(who  stands  here,  no  doubt,  as  a  mythical  representative  of  the  well-known  heretics 
of  that  name)  is  more  explicitly  described;  though,  from  the  two  passages  above 
adverted  to,  one  would  have  expected  to  find  some  further  j-eferences  to  Duryodhana's 
connexion  with  him.  The  passage  referred  to  in  the  summary  of  the  contents  of 
the  Mahabharata,  i.  349,  must  be  the  second  of  those  here  quoted. 

889  On  this  Lassen  remarks  (i.  p.  608,  first  ed. ;  p.  754  f.,  second  ed.) :  "  Since  * 


298    PROF.  "WEBER'S  REMARKS  ON  THE  PRECEDING  CHAPTER. 

The  following  remarks  of  Prof.  "Weber  on  the  preceding  chapter 
(translated  from  a  notice  of  this  work  in  the  "  Literarisches  Central- 
Blatt,"  reprinted  in  his  "Indische  Streifen,"  ii.  226  f.)  may  he  in- 
troduced here,  though  they  might  perhaps  haye  been  more  appropri- 
ately quoted  in  p.  97,  or  p.  163.  "As  regards  the  second  part,  the 
representation  of  the  Yishnu  legends,  it  is  impossible  to  arrive  at  any 
certain  conception  of  the  proper  nature  of  this  god  from  the  documents 
presented  to  us.  According  to  our  view  it  would  have  been  perhaps 
more  advantageous  for  the  course  of  the  representation  in  general  to 
start,  not  from  the  later  triad  of  gods,  but  from  the  Vedio  triad,  which 
so  often  appears  in  the  Brahmana  texts  themselves,  viz.  that  of  Agni, 
"Vayu,  and  Surya,  the  rulers  of  the  earth,  the  air,  and  the  heaven;  as 
we  have  in  fact  actually  to  recognize  this  as  the  foundation  of  the  later 
triad.  The  sun,  as  the  generative,  creative,  principle,  is  throughout 
the  ritual- texts  regarded  as  the  equivalent  of  Prajapati,  the  father  of 
the  creation.  The  destructive  power  of  fire  in  connexion  with  the 
raging  of  the  driving  storm  lies  clearly  enough  at  the  foundation 
of  the  epic  form  of  S'iva.  By  the  side  of  Vayu,  the  wind,  stands  his 
companion  Indra,  the  lord  of  the  light,  clear,  heaven ;  and  with  him 
again  Vishnu,  the  lord  of  the  solar  orb,  stands  in  a  fraternal  relation 
(see  my  two  Vedic  texts  on  omens  and  portents,  p.  338).  This  close 
relation  of  Vishnu  to  Indra  is  far  from  being  estimated  by  the  author 
in  its  full  significance.  Vishnu  owes  to  Indra  his  blue  colour,  his 
names  Vasava  and  Vasudeva,  and  his  relations  to  the  human  heroes, 
as  Arjuna,  Kama,  and  Krishna,  which  have  become  of  such  great  im- 
portance for  his  entire  history." 

these  (Purushottama  and  Vasudeva)  became  in  later  times  two  of  the  most  venerated 
names  of  Vishnu,  it  is  clear  from  this  passage,  that  among  the  Eastern  tribes,  and 
those  too  not  of  Arian  origin,  a  supreme  god  was  worshipped,  whose  name  was  after- 
wards transferred  to  Vishnu." 


299 


CHAPTER  III. 

ETJDEA  AND  MAHADEYA,  AS  EEPEESENTED  IN  THE  VEDIC 
HYMNS,  AND  THE  BEAHMANAS. 

In  the  preceding  chapter  I  have  quoted  a  variety  of  passages  from, 
the  Mahabharata,  which,  though  primarily  adduced  to  illustrate  the 
ideas  entertained  of  Krishna's  nature,  afford  at  the  same  time  a 
pretty  full  representation  of  the  attributes  of  Mahadeva  as  he  was  con- 
ceived in  the  period  of  the  epic  poems  and  Puranas.  I  have  thus 
anticipated  much  that  would  otherwise  have  found  its  place  towards, 
the  close  of  the  present  chapter,  of  which  it  is  the  purpose  to  compare 
ihe  earlier  and  the  later  accounts  furnished  to  us  by  Indian  literature 
of  the  deity  or  deities  to  whom  the  name  of  Eudra  was  applied.  I 
shall  now  proceed  to  adduce  the  passages  relating  to  this  divinity  which 
occur  (1)  in  the  Elg-veda,  (2)  in  the  Tajur-veda,  (3)  in  the  Atharva- 
V6da,  and  (4)  in  the  Brahmanas,  and  to,  compare  the  representations 
which  they  contain  with  those  which  are  found  in  the  texts  descriptive 
of  Mahadeva  which  I  have  quoted  in  the  preceding  chapter. 

Sect.  I. Рђћ Ru3/ra  as  represented  in  the  Hymns  of  the  Rig-veda. 

In  the  present  Section  I  purpose  to  quote  all  the  texts  of  the  Eig- 
veda  in  which  the  word  Eudra  occurs  in  the  singular,  whether  as  an 
epithet  of  Agni  or  as  the  name  of  a  separate  deity. 

E.V.  i.  27,  10  (S.  V.  i.  15 ;  Nir.  x.  8). Рђћ Jarahodha  tad  vividdhi  vise 
vise  yajniyaya  stomam  radraya  driilham  \  "  Thou  who  art  skilled  in 
praise,  utter  therefore  for  every  house  a  beautiful  hymn  to  the  adorable, 
the  terrible  (Agni)." '     In  connexion  with  this  verse,  Taska  remarks : 

Nir.  X.  7  and  8. Рђћ Agnir  api  rudrah  uchyate  j  tasya  esha  bhavati.  .  .  . 
jara  stutih  \  j'aratek  stuti-harmanah  \  tdm  hodha  taya  hodhayita/r  iti  va  \ 
tad  vividdhi^  tat  kwu  manushyasya  manushyasya  yajandya  stomafh, 
┬Бudrdya  dardaniyam  \  "Agni  also  is  called  Eudra,  as  in  this  verse 

'  See  Prof.  Benfey's  Tersion  of  this  and  following  texts  of  the  first  mandala  of 
the  E.V.  in  his  "  Orient  und  Occident." 
'  See  Vestergaard,  Benfey's  Glossary  to  Sama-Teda,  and  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth, 

s, ┬Ф,  visA, 


300  TEXTS  OF  THE  RIGVE0A 

(the  one  before  us).  Jara  means  'praise.'  One  who  perceives  it,  or 
awakens  [another]  by  it,  is  Jar&lodha.  Compose  that  for  the  worship 
of  every  man, Рђћ a  sightly  hymn  for  the  terrible."  Eoth  (Illnst.  of  Nir., 
p.  136)  remarks  that  "rudra"  in  this  verse  is  an  epithet  of  Agni,  to 
whom  the  whole  "  tricha,"  or  aggregate  of  three  verses  in  which  ]i, 
occurs,  is  addressed  ;  and  he  refers  to  E.  V.  x.  70,  2,  3,  and  R.  V.  viii. 
26,  5,  where  the  same  epithet  is  applied  in  the  dual  to  Mitra  and  Varuna, 
and  to  the  A^vins,'  respectively.  Eoth  also  quotes  from  Jayatirtha 
the  following  short  itihdsa  in  reference  to  this  verse,  which,  however, 
applies  it  to  Eudra  :  Agnih  stuyamanah  S'lmak&epham  uvacha  "Rudram 
stuhi  rauckdh  hi  paimah"  iti  \  Sa  tarn  pratyuvdcha  "  naham  j'dnami 
Rudram  stotuih  tvam  eva  etafh  stuhi"  iti  tad  idam  uchyate  "He  jarabodha 
Rudra-stuti-vettas  tat  kuru"  ityddi  \  "Agni,  when  he  was  being 
praised,  said  to  S'unassepha,  '  Praise  Eudra,  for  cattle  (or  victims) 
belong  to  him.'  He  (S'una^^epha)  answered,  '  I  do  not  know  how  to 
praise  Eudra;  do  thou  praise  him.'  It  is  this  which  is  here  expressed,, 
'  0  thou  who  art  skilled  in  the  praise  of  Eudra,  do  thou  do  so.'" 

E.V.  i.  43,  1  ff. Рђћ Kad  Rudrdya  prachetase  mllhushtamaya  tavyase  \ 
voehema  iantamam  hride  \  2.  Yatha  no  Aditih  karat  pahe  nrilhyo 
yathd  yave  \  yathd  tokdya  rudriyam*  |  3.  Yathd  no  Mitro  Varuno  yathd 
Rudras  ohihetati  \  yathd  vihe  sqfoshasah  |  4.  Gdtha-patim  medha-patim 
Rudram  jaldsha-hhesh(y'am  \  tat  iamyoh  sumnam  imahe  \  5.  Yah  iukrah 
iva  suryo  hiranyam  iva  rochate  |  ireshtho  devandm  vasuh  \  6.  Sam  nah 
karaty  arvate  sugam  meshdya  meshy e  \  nrilhyo  ndrilhyo  gave  \  "  What 
can  we  utter  to  Eudra,  the  intelligent,  the  most  bountiful,  the  strong, 
which  shall  be  most  pleasant  to  his  heart?  2.  That  so  Aditi  may 
bring  Eudra's  healing  to  our  cattle,  and  men,  and  kinOj^and  children. 
3.  That  SO  Mitra,  Yaruna,  Eudra,  and  all  the  [gods]  united,  may  think 
of  us.  4.  "We  seek  from  Eudra,  the  lord  of  songs,  the  lord  of  sacrifices, 
who  possesses  healing  remedies,  his  auspicious, favour.  5.  [We  seek 
this  from  him]  who  is  brilliant  as  the  sun,  who  shines  like  gold,  who 
is  the  best  and  most  bountiful  of  the  gods.  6.  He  grants  prosperity 
and  welfare  to  our  horses,  rams,  ewes,  men,  women,  and  cows." 

E.V.  i.  64,  2. Рђћ Te  jajnire  divah  rishvdsah  uhshano  Rudrasya  marydh 
asurdh  arepasah  |  pdvakdsah  htchayah  surydh,  iva  satvdno  na  drapsino 

3  See  also  R.V.  viii.  22,  14,  which  mil  be  quoted  farther  on. 

*  "Eudra's  favour"  (Benfey).    Compare  ma?-Mtoya  6AesAa/flsya in H.V.  viii.  20, 23,. 


EELATING  TO  EUDEA.  301 

ghora-varpasah  \  3.  Ywidno  Eudrdh  (y'arah  abhogghano  vmakshwr  adhri- 
g&vahpiwvatah  iva  \  drilha  chid  visva  bhwvanani  pdrihiva  prachyavayanti 
divyani  majmana  |  ....  12.  Ghriahum  pdvakam  vaninam  vicharsha- 
nim  Mudrasya  sunum  havasd  grimmasi  \  rajastwam  tavasam  marutam 
ganam  rijuhimm  vrishanam  sahhata  iriye\  "These  followers  of  Eudra 
have  been  produced  from  the  Sky,  exalted,  fertilizing,  divine,  purifiers, 
bright  as  suns,  like  heroes,  shedding  drops,  fearful  in  form.  3.  The 
youthful  Eudras,  undecaying,  destroyers  of  the  niggardly,  resistless, 
[firm  as]  mountains,  have  -increased  [in  vigour].  By  their  power 
they  cast  down  all  terrestrial  and  celestial  creatures,  however  firm.  .  . 
12.  We  praise  with  invocations  the  fierce,  purifying,  rain-dispensing 
energetic  offspring  of  Eudra.  To  obtain  prosperity,  worship  the  host 
of  Maruts,  which  sweeps  over  the  atmosphere,  vigorous,  impetuous,  and 
fertilizing."  ┬░ 

E.V.  i.  85, 1. Рђћ -Pra  ye  iumbhante  janayo  na  saptayo^  yaman  Rudrasya 
sunavah  sudamsasah  \  rodasi  hi  marutai  chakrire  vridhe  madanti  virah 
vidaiheshu  ghrishvayah  \  "The  swift  Maruts,  energetic  sons  of  Eudra, 
who,  in  their  course,  are  bright  like  wives,  have  made  the  two  worlds 
to  prosper,  and,  impetuous  heroes,  rejoice  in  sacrifices." 

E.V.  i.  114,  1  ff.  (Yaj.  S.  16,  48;  Taitt.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  \).РђћImah 
Mudrdya  tavase  ke^ardine''  kshayad-virdya^  praihardmahe  matih  \  yathd 

'  5  See  .Prof.  Max  Miiller's  version  of  this  hymn,  and  of  that  next  quoted,  in  his 
Translation  of  the  R.V.,  toI.  1. 

┬Ф  See  Prof.  Max  Miiller's  note  on  this  word,  Translation  of  E.V.  i.  110  ff.  The 
word  also  occurs  in  R.V.  x.  142,  2,  as  well  as  in  the  other  texts  enumerated  by 
Miiller,  p.  112 

'  Kapardin  is  also  an  epithet  of  Pushan  in  E.V.  -n.  55,  2  :  Rathltamam  ka- 
parMnmn  isanam  radhaso  mahah  |  ray  ah  sakkaymn  Imahe  \  ""We  solicit  the 
great  charioteer,  adorned  with  spirally-braided  hair,  the  lord  of  great  bounty,  and  our 
friend,  for  wealth."  And  also  in  E.V.  ix.  67,  10,  11:  Avita  no  ajasvah  Fusha 
yamani  yamani  \  abKdkshat  kanyasu  nah  |  11.  At/am  somah  kapardine  ghritaih  na 
pavate  madhu  \  a  bhakshat  kanyasu  nah  \  "  Pushan,  who  has  goats  for  steeds,  is 
our  protector  on  every  journey.  May  he  make  us  possessors  of  damsels.  11.  This 
soma  is  purified  for  the  god  with  spirally-braided  hair,  like  sweet  butter.  May  he 
make  us  possessors  of  damsels."    The  word  is  also  applied  to  the  Tritsus  in  R.V. 

vii.  83,  8 S'mtyaneho  yatra  namasa  kapardino  dhiya  dhivanto  asapanta 

TrUsavah  \ "  Where  the  white-robed  Tritsus  with  braided  hair  have 

worshipped  you  with  obeisances  and  prayers."  With  this  compare  dakshinatas- 
kapm-dah  in  R.V.  vii.  33,  1.    The  word  Kapardin  also  occurs  in  R.V.  x.  102,  8. 

8  This  word  is  rendered  "governing  men"  by  BohtUngk  and  Both,  vol.  ii. 
(published  1856-1858),  who  first  cite,  as  determining  the  sense  of  the  word,  R.V. 


302  MEANING  OF  THE  EPITHET  KSHATADVlEA, 

iam  asad  dvipade  ehattishpade  viivam  puahtafh  grdme  mminn  andturam  \ 
2.  (=T.  8.  iv.  5,  10,  2)  Mrila  no  Rudra  uta  no  mayas  leridhi  kshayad- 
viraya  namasd  vidhema  te  \  yat  &am  cha  yoicka  Manur  a  yeje  pita  tad 
asyamatava  ijRudra  pramtishv,  \  3.  Aiydma  te  sumatim  deva-y<yyayd 
Jcshayad-virasya  tava  Rudra  midhvah  \.  sumndyann  id  viSo  asmdkam 
achara  ariskta-virdh  juhavdma  te  hdvih  \  4.  Tvesham  vayam  Rvdram 

viii.  19,  10:  Yasya  tvam  urdhvo  adhvaraya  tishthasi  leahayadoirah  aa  sadhate  |  so 
anadhhih  sanita  sa  vipemyuhMh  sa  suraih  sanita  kritam  |  "The  man  to  whom  thou 
hoverest  over  the  sacrifice,  prospers  as  a  commander  of  heroes :  he,  irith  horses,  with 
triumphant  men,  with  heroes,  will  acquire  spoil."  Benfey  also  (Orient  und  Occident, 
iii.  pp.  140  and  166)  renders  the  word  "governing  heroes"  ;  and  adds  in  a  note  on 
the  latter  page :  "  Are  the  heroes,  the  single  stormy  winds,  the  maruts  (comp.  v.  6) 
over  whom  Eudra  rules ;  or  is  Eudra  generally  designated  as  the  lord  of  all  heroes, 
inasmuch  as  he  makes  them  swift,  and  destructive  as  storm-winds,  in  battle? 
'  Destroyer  of  heroes,'  as  Whitney  proposes,  ('slayer  of  men,'  Journal  of  the  American 
Oriental  Society,  vol.  iii.,  p.  319,  published  in  1853),  is  not  specially  suitable 
in  E.V.  viii.  19,  10,  or  in  other  places."  Professor  Aufrecht  translates  the  word 
"ruling  over  men"  (as  well  as  gods).  Eudra,  he  remarks,  is  caUed  isanad  asya 
bhuvanasya  ihureh,  "lord  over  this  manifold  creation,"  in  E,V,  ii.  33,  9;  and 
compares  sed  u  raja  kshayati  charshanmam  in  i.  32,  15,  and  the  similar  phrases 
in  i.  112,  3,  and  x.  9,  5.  Kshayadvira  is,  he  believes,  nothing  more  than  the  usual 
nripati.  It  is  true,  Professor  Aufrecht  adds,  that  in  i.  114,  8,  it  is  said  of  Eudra, 
"do  not  strike  our  children  in  thy  anger,"  and  that  in  iv.  3,  6,  he  is  called  nrihan ; 
but  he  does  not  think  it  likely  that  in  one  particular  hymn  a  word  should  have  a 
quite  different  meaning  from  that  which  it  has  in  all  other  passages ;  and  regards  it 
as  quite  possible  that  nrihan  may  be  based  on  a  false  intei'pretation  of  kshayadvira, 
-^  Sayana  renders  the  word  variously.  On  the  passage  above  referred  to,  viii.  19,  10, 
he  interprets  it:  nivasadbhir  itvarair  va  vlraih putradibhir  upetah  |  i.e.  "  attended  by 
heroes,  sons,  etc.,  dwelling  or  moving."  Oni.  106,4,  where  it  is  an  epithet  of  Pushan, 
he  explains  it  ati-balinam  |  yasmin  sarve  vJrah  k'shlyarde,  i.e.  "  very  powerful :  he  in 
whom  all  heroes  are  consumed."  On  the  passage  before  us,  i.  114, 1,  he  gives  two  possible 
explanations  of  it :  Kshayanto  vinasyanto  vlrah  yasmin  tadridaya  \  yadva  kshayatir 
aiharyakarmd  |  kshayantah  praptaisvaryah  vlrah  Marndgarwih  putrah  yasya]  "He 
in  whom  heroes  perish ;  or,  as  the  root  kshi  also  means  '  exercising  authority,' Рђћ he  of 
whom  the  Maqjts,  heroes,  exercising  authority,  are  the  sons."  The  same  verse 
occurs  in  Vaj.  ST,  xvi.  48,  where  Mahldhara  interprets  the  phrase :  Kshayanto  niva- 
santo  virah  surah  yatra  sa  kshayadviras  tasmai  sura-yutaya  ity  arthah  I  kshayanto 
nas'yanto  vTrah  ripavo  yasmad  iti  m\  "  He  in  whom  heroes  dwell  is  kshayadvira ; 
to  him  who  is  possessed  of  heroes.  Or,  he  through  whom  heroes  perish."  On  the 
second  and  third  verses  of  i.  114,  Sayana  repeats  in  different  words  the  explanations 
he  had  given  on  the  first  verse  {Xshayita-sarva-viram  prapiais'varyair  marudihir 
yuktam  va  \  kshayita-pratipakshasya  Marudihir  yuktasya  va).  On  verse  10,  he 
confines  himself  to  the  one  explanation,  Kshayita-sarva-satrti-jana,  In  E.V.  !Рђб 
125,  3,  the  same  epithet  is  applied  to  Indra;  where  Sayana  expounds  it  thus: 
Kshiyanto  nivasanto  vlrah  putra-bhrityadayo  yasya  tarn  tadrisam  tvad-ishfa-sSdhana- 
baht(-dhana-pradataram  \  "  He  in  whom  heroes,  sons,  servants,  etc.,  abide Рђћ the  giver 
of  much  wealth,  which  is  the  instrument  of  obtaining  thy  vrishee." 


-> 


SATANA'S  ETYMOLOGIES  OF  THE  WORD  EUDRA.  303 

yajna-addhaffi  vanhum  Icavim  avase  nihrnyamahe  \  are  asmad  daivyam  help 
asyaiu  sumatim  id  vayam  asya  a  vrimmahe  \  5.  Divo  vardham  arushafn, 
iapardinam  tvesham  rupaM  namasd  nihvaydmahe  \  haste  bihjirad  bheshajd 
vdrydni  kwrma  varma  clihardir  asmabhyam  yarhsat  |  6.  Idam  pitre  Maru- 
tdm  uehyate  vachah  svddoh  svddiyo  Rudrdya  vardhanam  \  rdsva  cha  no 
amrita  marta-hhojanam  tmane  tohdya  ianaydya  mrila  |  7  (=V.  S.  16, 
15 ;  T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  2  ;  A.  V.  ii.  2,  29).  Md  no  mahdntam  uta  md  no 
arhhakam  ma  nah  uhshantam  uta  md  nah  uhshitam  |  mo  no  ladhih  pita/ram 
mota  mdtaram  md  nahpriyds  tanvo  Hudra  ririshah  |  8.  (V.  S.  16,  16; 
T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  3).  Md  nas  tohe  tanaye  md  na  dyau  {dyushi  V.  S.,  T.  S.) 
md  no  goshu  md  no  aheshu  ririshah  \  virdn  md  no  hhdmito  (hhdmino 
V.  S.,  T.  S.)  ladhtr  havishmantah  sadam  it  tvd  havdmahe  \  9.  TTpa  te  stomdn 
pasu-pdh  ivdhwram,  rdsva  pitar  Marutdm  sumnam  asme  \  Ihadrd  hi  te 
sumatir  mrilayattamd  atha  vayam  avah  it  te  vrimmahe  \  10.  (T.S.  iv. 
5,  10,  3).  Are  te  go-ghnam  uta  purusha-ghnam  hshayad-vira  sumnam 
asme  te  astu  \  mrila  cha  no  adhi  cha  Iruhi  deva  odha  cha  nah  iarma 
yachha  dvi-harhdh  |  11.  Avoehdma  namo  dsmai  avasyavah  srinotu  no 
hamam  Rudro  marutvdn  |  tan  no  Mitro  Varuno  mamahantdm  Aditih 
sindhuh  prithivi  uta  dyauh  \ 

"We  present  these  prayers  to  Rudra,'  the  strong,  with  spirally- 

'  Sayana,  in  his  note  on  this  verse,  gives  no  less  than  six  explanations  of  the  word 
Endra,  which  I  subjoin,  as  a  specimen  of  commentorial  ingenuity : 

Bodayati  sarvam  antakale  iti  Mitdrah  \  yadva  rut  samsarakhyam  duhhhmn  |  tad 
dravayaty  apagamayati  vinaiayati  iti  Rvdrah  \  yadva  rutah  sabda-rupah  upanisha- 
dah  I  tabhir  druyate  gamyate  pratipadyate  iti  Rudrah  \  yadva  rut  sabdatmikS  vanl 
tat-pratipadyatma-vidya,  vd  \  tarn  upasakebhyo  rati  dadati  iti  Rudrali  \  yadva  runa- 
ddhy  avrinoti  iti  rud  andhakaradi  \  tad  drinati  viddrayati  iti  Rudrah  |  yadva  kada- 
ehid  devaswa-aangrame  'gny-atmako  Rudro  devair  nikshiptam  dhanain  apahritya 
niragdt  \  asurdn  Jitva  devdh  enam  anvishya  drishtvd  dhanam  apdharan  \  taddnJm 
arudat  |  tasmad  Rudrali  ity  dkhydyate  \  "  He  is  called  Eudra  (1)  because  he  makes 
every  one  weep  [rodayati)  at  the  destruction  of  the  world.  Or  (2)  rut  means  the 
suffering  called  the  world.  He  drives  away  {drmayati),  removes,  destroys,  that; 
therefore  he  is  named  Eudra.  Or  (3)  rut  in  the  plural  means  the  TJpanishads,  which 
are  composed  of  words :  by  them  he  is  attained,  expounded  [druyate)  :  therefore  he 
is  termed  Eudra.  Or  (4)  rut  signifies  language  composed  of  words,  or  the  science  of 
soul  which  is.  to  be  explained  by  it :  this  he  gives  (^rdti)  to  his  worshippers :  hence 
he  is  denominated  Endra.  Or  (5)  the  root  rudh  means  to  shut,  cover ;  and  therefore 
rut  means  darkness,  etc. ;  he  tears  {drinati),  rends,  it :  therefore  he  is  designated  as 
Eudra.  Or  (6)  when  on  one  occasion  there  was  a  battle  between  the  gods  and 
Asuras,  Eudra  having  the  nature  of  Agni  carried  off  the  treasures  which  had  been 
thrown  down  by  the  gods  and  went  away.  But  the  gods,  after  conquering  the 
Asuras,  sought  him,  saw  him,  and  took  the  treasures  from  him :  then  he  wept  {(wudat), 
and  from  that  he  is  called  Eudra." 


304        TEANSLATION  OF  HYMN  cxiv.,  BOOK  i.  OF  THE  E.T. 

braided  hair,  ruling  over  heroea^  that  there  may  be  prosperity  to  our 
two-footed  and  four-footed  creatures,  that  everything  in  this  village 
may  be  well  fed  and  free  from  disease.  2.  Be  gracious  to  us,  Eudra, 
and  cause  us  happiness ;  let  us  with  obeisance  worship  thee,  the  ruler 
over  heroes.  Whatever  prosperity  and  blessing  our  father  Manu  ac- 
quired by  worship,  may  we  attain  it  all  under  thy  guidance,  Eudra. 

3.  May  we  by  our  divine  worship  obtain  the  goodwill  of  thee,  Eudra, 
who  art  the  ruler  of  heroes,  and  beneficent;  act  favourably  towards 
our  people :  may  we,  with  our  men  unharmed,  offer  thee  our  oblation. 

4.  "We  invoke  to  our  succour  the  impetuous  Eudra,  the  fulfiUer  of 
sacrifice,  the  swift,  the  wise.  May  he  drive  far  away  from  us  the 
anger  of  the  gods,  for  we  desire  his  favour.  5.  We  invoke  with 
obeisance  the  ruddy  boar  of  the  sky,  with  spirally-braided  hair,  a 
brilliant  form.  Carrying  in  his  hand  most  choice  remedies,  may  he 
give  us  protection,  defence,  shelter.  6.  This  exhilarating  hymn, 
sweeter  than  the  sweetest,  is  uttered  to  Eudra,  the  father  of  the 
Maruts.  Bestow  on  us,  0  immortal,  the  food  of  mortals ;  be  gracious 
to  ourselves,  our  children,  and  descendants.  7.  Slay  neither  our  great, 
nor  our  small,  neither  our  growing  nor  our  grown,  neither  our  father 
nor  our  mother;  injure  not,  Eudra,  our  dear  selves.  8.  Injure  us 
not  in  our  children  and  descendants,  nor  in  our  men  (life,  V.S.),  nor 
in  our  cattle,  nor  in  our  horses.  Slay  not  our  men  in  thine  anger 
(angry  men,  V.S.)  :  we  continually  worship  thee  with  offerings.  9. 
As  a  keeper  of  cattle  (brings  victims),  so  have  we  brought  praises  near 
to  thee : "  bestow  on  us  thy  favour,  0  father  of  the  M'aruts.  For 
kind  and  most  gracious  is  thy  benevolence,  and  now  we  desire  thy 
succour.  10.  Far  from  us  be  thy  cow-slaying  and  thy  man-slaying 
[weapon] :  ruler  of  heroes,  let  thy  blessing  be  with  us.  Be  gracious 
to  us,  0  god,  and  take  our  side;  bestow  on  us  mightily  thy  protection. 
11.  We  have  uttered  to  him  our  adoration,  desiring  his  help.     May 

^^  Compare  E.V.  i.  127,  8,  quoted  by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  kar-\-upa-\-a : 
v/pa  te  gah  iva  akaram  vrintshva  duhitar  divah  |  Satri  atommi  najigyuahe  \  "I  have, 
0  Night,  brought  before  thee  (praises)  as  it  were  cows ;  choose  (them,  daughter  of 
the  Sky),  as  it  were  a  hymn  to  a  conqueror."  Sayana  (on  K.V.  i.  114,  9)  explains 
the  comparison  as  follows :  YathS.  pasunam  palayita  gopah  prataAkale  svasmai 
samarpitan  paiun  sayamkale  svamiihyah  pratyarpayati  evaih  tvat  sakasal  labdhan 
stutirupan  mantran  stuti-sadhanataya  tubhyam  pratyarpayami  |  "  As  a  cattle-herd 
returns  to  the  owners  in  the  evening  the  cattle  entrusted  to  him  in  the  morning,  so  I, 
by  the  fulfilment  of  praise,  give  back  to  thee  the  laudatory  hymns  received  from  thee." 


HOW  THE  MAEUTS  BECAME  EUDRA'S  SONS.  305 

Rudra,  attended  by  the  Maruts,  listen  to  our  invocation.  Then  may 
Mitra,  Varuna,  Aditi,  Sindhu,  Earth  and  Sky,  gladden  us." 

In  Sayana's  annotations  on  the  sixth  verse,  he  quotes  the  following 
later  story  to  explain  how  Endra  (here  identified  with  the  later  Maha- 
deva)  came  to  be  called  the  father  of  the  Maruts : 

Jiudrasya  Marutam  pitritvam  evam  akhyayate  \  pura  IcadacMd  Inchro 
'surdn  jigaya  \  tadanim  Bitir  Asura-mdta  Indra-hanana-samartham 
putram  hamayamana  tapasa  Ihartuh  sakdidd  ga/rbham  lebhe  \  imam  vri- 
ttdntam  avagachhann  Indro  vajra-hadah  san  sulcshma-rupo  hhutvd  tasydh 
udaram  pravUya  tarn  garlham  saptadhd  hibheda  \  punar  apy  elcaiham 
sapta-ihandam  aharot  \  te  sarve  gtwbhaika-deidli  yoner  nirgatydrudan  \ 
etasminn  avasare  Mdrtham  gaohhmtau  Pdnatl-pa/ramehardv  imdn  da- 
drisatuh  \  Mahe^am  prati  Pdnaty  evam  avochat  \  "ime  mamsa-hhanddh 
yathd  pratyekam  putrdh  sampadyantdm  evam  tvayd  hdryam  mayi  ehet 
friiir  asti"  iti  \  sa  cTia  Maheharas  tan  samdna-rupdn  samdna-vayasah 
samdndlankdrdn  putrdn  hritvd  Qauryai  pradadau  "  taveme  putrdh 
santv"  iti  \  atah  sarveshu  Maruteshu  suMeshu  Maruto  Rudra-putrdh  iti 
stuyante  Eavdreshu  cha  Marutam  pita  Eudrah  iti  \ 

"The  story  of  Eudra  being  the  father  of  the  Maruts  is  thus  re- 
counted. Eormerly,  once  on  a  time,  Indra  overcame  the  Asuras. 
Then  Diti,  the  mother  of  the  Asuras,  desiring  a  son  who  should  be  able 
to  slay  Indra,  through  austerity  became  pregnant  by  her  husband. 
Indra,  learning  this  news,  entered  into  her  womb  in  a  very  minute 
form,  with  a  thunberbolt  in  his  hand,  divided  her  foetus  into  seven 
parts,  and  again  made  each  of  these  parts  into  seven.  All  these  being 
in  one  part  of  the  foetus,  issued  from  the  womb  and  wept.  At  this 
conjuncture,  Paramesvara  (Mahadeva)  afld  ParvatI  were  passing  by 
for  amusement,  and  saw  them.  Parvati  spoke  thus  to  Paramesvara, 
'  If  you  love  me,  effect  that  all  these  bits  of  flesh  may  become  severally 
sons.'  Mahesvara  made  them  all  of  the  same  form  and  age,  and  with 
the  same  ornaments,  and  gave  them  to  Gaurl  (Parvati),  saying,  'Let 
these  be  thy  sons.'  Hence  in  all  the  hymns  addressed  to  the  Maruts, 
they  are  lauded  as  the  sons  of  Eudra ;  and  in  the  hymns  to  Eudra,  he 
is  praised  as  the  father  of  the  Maruts."" 

1'  On  E.V.  viii.  28,  6,  Sayana  has  the  following  note:  Atra  puratam  kathS.\ 
Indra-samanam  putram  iohhcmtyah  Aditer  garbhasya  kenaehit  karanena  Indrena 
saptadha  bhinnatiiat  sa  garbhali  aapta-garmtmako  'bhmiat  |  tato  Marutah  sampanmh  | 

VOL.  IV.  20 


306  TEXTS  FEOM  THE  EIGVEDA 

E.V.  i.  122,  1. Рђћ Pra  vah  pantam  raghu-manyavo  'ndho  yajnarri 
Rudraya  mUhushe  hho/radhvam  \  dim  astoshi  asurasya^^  virair  ishudhyd 
iva  Maruto  rodasyoh  \  "Present,  ye  zealous  (priests),  to  the  bountiful 
Eudra,  the  draught  of  soma,  your  offering.  I  have  praised  him  with 
the  heroes  of  the  divine  Sky :  may  I  (with  my  prayer)  as  it  were  aim 
at  the  Maruts  in  heaven  and  earth." 

E.V.  i.  129,  3. Рђћ Bmmo  hi  shma  vrishanam  pinvasi  tvacham  ham  chid 
ydvir  ararum  Sura  martyam  parivrinahhi  martyam  |  Ind/rota  tuhhyam, 
tad  Dive  tad  Hudrdya  sva-ya^ase  \  Mitraya  vocham  Varundya  saprathah 
sumrilikdya  saprathah  \  "Thou  (Indra),  who  art  energetic,  fiUest 
the  teeming  skin  (the  cloud  ?) :  thou,  hero,  hast  chased  away  every 
hostile  mortal,  thou  puttest  to  flight  the  mortal.  Indra,  I  have 
uttered  this  to  thee,  and  this  to  the  Sky,  and  to  Rudra,  who  derives 
his  renown  from  himself,  and  to  Mitra,  and  to  Yaruna  abundantly,  to 
the  very  gracious,  abundantly." 

E.V.  ii.  1,  6. Рђћ Tvam  Agne  Rudro  asuro  maho  divas  tvam  ia/rdho 
mdrutam  prikshah  liishe  |  tvam  vdtair  arunair  yasi  iaihgayas  tvam  Pusha 
vidhatah  pdsi  nu  tmand  \  "Thou,  Agni,  art  Eudra,  the  great  spirit 
{asitra)  of  the  sky.  Thou  art  the  host  of  the  Maruts.  Thou  art  lord 
of  nourishment.  Thou,  who  hast  a  pleasant  abode,  movest  onward 
with  the  ruddy  winds.  Thou  [being]  Pushan,  by  thyself  protectest 
those  who  worship  thee." 

" sapta-gctnah  vai  Marutah"  iti  s'ruteh  |  " Regarding  this  there  is  an  ancient  story. 
The  fcetus  of  Aditi,  who  desired  to  have  a  son  equal  to  Indva,  having  been  for  some 
reason  divided  by  Indra  into  seven  parts,  it  became  formed  into  seven  troops.  Thence 
the  Maruts  were  produced.  For  a  Vedic  text  says,  "  The  Maruts  are  divided  into 
seven  troops."  Unless  the  reading  in  the  latter  of  these  two  passages  is  incorrect, 
it  will  be  observed  that  the  mother  of  the  Maruts  is  variously  represented  to  be  Diti 
and  Aditi.  As  in  the  first  of  the  two  texts  Diti  is  defined  as  the  mother  of  the 
Asuras,  the  reading  there  must  be  correct ;  and  the  Maruts  must  have  been  regarded  by 
the  writer  as  her  sons.  In  the  hymns  they  are  said  to  be  the  sons  of  Eudra  and 
Pris'ni;  and  the  sons  of  the  Sky  and  Ocean.  See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work, 
p.'  147  f. 

''  Compare  with  divo  aaurasya,  E.Y.  i.  131,  1,  and  iii,  63,  7,  where  the  phrases 
Dyaur  asurah,  "the  divine  Sky,"  and  Divas  putraso  aaurasya,  "the  sons  of  the 
divine  Sky,"  occur.  I  am  indebted  to  Prof.  Aufrecht  for  an  explanation  of  the 
sense  of  this  half  verse.  He  holds  ishuAhya  as  put  for  ishudhySni,  the  1st  pers. 
sing,  of  the  imperative  of  the  root  ishudhy.  See  Dr.  Bollensen's  article  in  the 
Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  vol.  xxii.,  "Die  Lieder  des  Para^ara," 
p.  577,  where  other  instances  of  the  suffix  ni  being  omitted  in  this  part  of  the  verb 
are  given. 


EEGAEDING  AGNI  AND  RUDEA.  307 

See  above  (p.  76  f.)  the  third  verse  of  this  hymn,  where  Agni  is  iden- 
tified with  Indra,  and  Vishnu,  in  the  same  way  as  he  is  identified  with 
Eudra  and  Puahan  in  the  verse  before  us. Рђћ See  also  verses  4,  5,  and  7. 
Sayana,  in  his  commentary  on  this  verse,  gives  two  derivations  of  the 
word  Eudra : 

Mud  duhhhafh  duhhha-hetur  vd  papadih  |  tast/a  drdvayita  etan-ndmako 
devo'  ┬Ф┬Ф' I  "  Jiudro  vai  esha  yad  Agnir"  ity  adisho  Agneh  Rud/n-kabdma 
vymahdrdt  \  yadnd  ham  Rudrah  \  rauti  \  mdm  anishtm  nardh  duKkhe 
patishyanti  \  Rudras  tddriso  'si  \  "Rut  means  suffering,  or  sin,  etc., 
which  causes  suffering.  Thou  (Agni)  art  the  god  so  called,  who  drives 
this  away  {rud-drdvayitd) ;  for  Agni  is  intended  by  the  word  Eudra 
in  such  passages  as  this,  'He  who  is  Agni  is  Eudra.'  Or,  thou  art 
Eudra.  He  cries :  Not  worshipping  me,  men  wUl  fall  into  grief. 
Thou  art  such  a  Eudra,"  etc. 

E.V.  ii.  33,  1  ff. Рђћ J.  te  pitar  Marutdm  sumnam  etu  ma  nah  sur- 
ymya  saihdriio  yuyothdh  \  aibhi  no  viro  arvati  Ttshameta  pra  jdyemaM 
Rudra  prajdlhih  \  2.  Tvd-datteihih  Rudra  hmtamehhih  iatam  Mmd  akiya 
iheshajehhih  |  vi  asmad  dvesho  vitarafh  vi  amho  vi  amivdk  nhdtayasva 
visMchih  \  3.  S'reshtho  jdtasya  Rudra  iriyd  hi  tavastamas  tavasdm 
vajra-ldho  \  parshi  nah  pdram  amhasah  svasti  vihdh  ahhUih  rapaao 
yuyodhi  \  4.  Md  tvd  Rudra  ohuhrudhdma  namohkir  md  dushtuti  vri- 
shahha  md  sahuti  \  ud  no  virdn  arpaya  Iheshajebhir  Ihishaktamam  tvd 
bhishajdm  irinomi  \  5.  Havimalhir  havate  yo  havirhhir  ova  stomehhih 
Budram  disJaya  \  ridudarah'  suhavo  md  no  asyai  labhruh  suiipro  riradhad 
manayai  |  6.  Ud  md  mama/nda  vrishahho  marutvdn  tvahshiyasd  vaymd 
nddhamanam  \  ghrinlva^^  ehhdyam  arapdh  akya  d  vivdseyam  Rudrasya 
sumnam  \  7.  Rva  sya  te  Rudra  mrilaydkur  hasto  yo  asti  IJieshajo  jald- 
shah  I  apahhartd  rapaso  daivyasya  ahhi  nu  md  vrishabha  ehakshamlthdh  | 

8.  Pra  lahhrave  vrishaihdya  hitiche  maho  mahim  sush{uiim  iraydmi  \ 
namasyd   kalmallkina'm  namohhir  grimmasi  tveshaM  Rudrasya  ndma^^ 

9.  SthirelMr  angQ,ir pu/ru-rupah ugrolalhruh kuhrehhihpipiie Uranyaih  \ 
iSdndd  asya  bhwanasya  bk-urer  na  vai  u  yoshad  Rudrad  aswryam  \  10. 
Arhan,  lihharsM  sdyahdni  dhanva  arhan  nishkafh  yajataih  viiva/rupam  I 
drhann   idam,  dayase  viivam   dbhvaffi  na  vai  oj'lyo  Rudra  tvad  asti  I 

"  See  Dr.  BoUensen's  article  in  Benfey's  Orient  uud  Occident,  ii.  474,  where  he  says 
ffhrim  is  a  locative  or  instrumental.    Bohtliugk  and  Eoth  judge  dififerently.    See  s.v. 
"  Compare  E.V.  vii.  100,  3,  ahove,  p.  87. 


308  TRANSLATION  OP  THE  THIRTT-THIED  HYMN 

11  (A.  V.  18,  1,  40  ;  T.  S.  iv.  6,  10,  3,  4).  StuM  srutarh  garta-aadaih 
ymanam  mrigarh  na  hhimam^'  upahatnum  ugram  \  mrila  jaritre  Rud/ra 
stavdno  any  am  te  asmad  ni  vapantu  sendh  \  12.  Kumar  as  chit  pitaram 
vandamanam  prati  nanama  Rud/ra  tipayantam  I  Ihurer  ddtaram  satpatim 
grinisJie  stutas  tvam  bheshqfa,  rdsi  asme  \  13.  Fa  vo  hheshaja  Marutah 
Suchmi  yd  iamtamd  vrishano  yd  mayohhu  \  ydni  Manv/r  avrinlta  pitd  nas 
td  hm  cha  yoioha  Rudrasya  vaimi  \  14  (Y.  S.  16,  60 ;  T.  S.  iv.  5,  10,  4). 
Pari  no  hetih  Rudrasya  vrijydh}^  (vrinaMu,  V.  S.,  T.  S.) pari  tveshasya 
durmatir  mahl  gat  \  ma  sthird  maghavadhhyas  tanushva  midhvas  toTcdya 
tanayaya  mrila  \  15.  Eva  lalhro  vrishabha  ckehitdna  yathd  deva  na 
hrinishe  na  hamsi  \  havana-irud  no  Rud/ra  iha  hodhi  brihad  vadema  vidathe 
suvirdh  I 

"1.  Eather  of  the  Maruts,  may  thy  blessing  come  (to  us):  remove 
us  not  from'the  sight  of  the  sun.  May  the  hero  spare  our  horses:  may 
we,  Eudra,  increase  in  offspring.  2.  Through  the  auspicious  remedies 
conferred  by  thee,  Eudra,  may  I  attain  a  hundred  'winters.  Drive  away 
far  from  us  enmity,  and  distress,  and  diseases,  to  a  distance.  3.  Thou, 
Eudra,  art  in  glory  the  most  eminent  of  beings,  the  strongest  of  the 
strong,  0  wielder  of  the  thunderbolt.  Carry  us  happily  across  our 
calamity  :  repel  all  the  assaults  of  evil.  4.  Let  us  not,  Eudra,  provoke 
thee  by  our  prostrations,  by  our  unsuitable  praises,  vigorous  [deity], 
or  by  our  common  invocations.  Eaise  up  our  heroes  by  thy  remedies : 
I  hear  that  thou  art  the  greatest  physician  of  physicians.  5.  May  I 
with  hymns  avert  (propitiate)  that  Eudra  who  is  invoked  with  praises 
and  oblations.  Let  not  him  who  is  mild,  easily-invoked,  tawny,  with 
a  beautiful  chin,  deliver  us  up  to  this  iU.  wiU  [of  our  enemies].  6. 
The  mighty  [god],  attended  by  the  Maruts,  has  gladdened  me  his 
suppliant  with  robust  health.  May  I,  free  from  injury,  obtain  [thy 
protection],  as  it  were,  shade  in  the  heat  [of  the  summer] :  may  I 
seek  the  blessing  of  Eudra.  7.  Where,  Eudra,  is  that  thy  gracious 
hand  which  is  healing  and  restorative?  Eemoving  the  evil  which 
comes  from  the  gods,  spare  me,  thou  vigorous  [deity].  8.  I  joyfully 
send  forth  a  great  encomium  to  this  tawny,  vigorous,  luminous  god. 

Рђб5  Compare  similar  modes  of  speaking  about  Vishnu,  Indra,  Varuna,  etc.,  above, 
p.  69  and  note  18. 

^  See  in  tbe  note  to  Roth's  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  p.  86,  other  instances  of 
similar  forms,  apparently  of  the  2nd  pers,  sing.,  standing  for  the  3rd  pers. 


OF  THE  SECOND  BOOK  OF  THE  RIGVEDA,  ETC.     309 

Eeverence  the  fiery  [deity]  with  prostrations :  we  celebrate  the  glorious 
name  of  Eudra.  9.  With  firm  limbs,  multiform,  fierce,  tawny,  he  has 
been  arrayed  with  bright  golden  (ornaments)."  Divine  power  can 
never  be  removed  from  Eudra,  the  lord  of  this  vast  world.  10.  Thou, 
fitly,  boldest  arrows  and  a  bow  ;  fitly,  thou  [wearest]  a  glorious  neck- 
lace of  every  form  (of  beauty).  Fitly,  thou  possessest  all  this  vast 
[world]'.  There  is  nothing,  Eudra,  more  powerful  than  thou.  11. 
Celebrate  the  renowned  and  youthful  god,  mounted  on  his  chariot, 
terrible  as  a  wild  beast,  destructive,  and  fierce.  Be  gracious  to  thy 
worshipper,  Eudra,  when  praised:  may  thy  hosts  prostrate  some  one 
else  than  us.  12.  Even  a  boy,  when  his  father  approaches  and  salutes 
him,  makes  obeisance  to  him  in  return ;  [so]  0  Eudra,  I  praise  [thee], 
the  giver  of  much  [good],  the  lord  of  heroes.  Thou,  when  lauded, 
grantest  to  us  remedies.  13.  Those  pure  remedies  of  yours,  Maruts, 
those  which  are  salutary,  ye  strong  [gods],  those  which  are  beneficent, 
those  which  our  father  Manu  desired '' Рђћ those,  as  well  as  the  blessing 
and  favour  of  Eudra,  I  desire.  14.  May  the  bolt  of  Eudra  avoid  us  ; 
may  the  great  malevolence  of  the  impetuous  [deity]  depart  far  from  us. 
Unbend  thy  strong  [bows  so  as  not  to  strike]  thy  wealthy  worshippers. 
Dispenser  of  good,  be  gracious  to  our  children  and  descendants.  15. 
0  tawny  and  vigorous  god,  so  taking  heed  of  us,  as  neither  to  be  in- 
censed against  us,  nor  to  injure  us Рђћ think  of  us  now,  Eudra,  hearing 
our  invocations;  let  us  with  our  vigorous  men  utter  a  great  hymn  at 
the  sacrifice." 

E.  V.  ii.  34,  2. Рђћ Byavo  na  stribhU  ehitayanta  hhadino  vi  abhriyah  na 
dyutayanta  vrishtayah  \  Rudro  yad  vo  Marulo  ruhma-vakshaso  vrisha 
'jani priinyah  iuhre  udhani  \  "Adorned  with  armlets,  [the  Maruts]  have 
shone  like  the  skies  with  their  stars,  they  have  glittered  like  showers 
from  the  clouds,  at  the  time  when  the  prolific  Eudra  generated  you, 
0  Maruts,  with  jewels  on  your  breasts,  from  the  shining  udder  of 
Prisni." 

E.  v.  ii.  38,  9. Рђћ Na  yasya  Indro  Varuno  na  Mitro  vratam  Aryamu 
na  minanti  Rudrah  \   na  matayas  lam  idam  svasti  huve  devam  Savi- 

"  See  sukra-pU,  Nir.  viii.  11=R.V.  x.  110,  6;  and  Eoth,  Erl.  See  the  fifth. 
vol.  of  this  work,  p.  463  f.,  where  some  remarks  of  Dr.  Boliensen  (Joum.  Germ.  Or. 
Society,  xxii.  587  S.)  are  quoted,  in  which  this  passage,  with  others,  is  adduced  to 
show  that  images  of  the  gods  were  common  in  the  Vedio  age. 

┬╗8  Compare  i.  114,  2,  ahove,  pp.  302  and  304. 


310  TEXTS  PROM  THE  KIGVEDA 

taram  namolhih  |  "'With  prostrations  I  invoke  this  blessing  from  the 
god  Savitri,  whose  purpose  neither  Indra,  nor  Varuna,  nor  Mitra,  nor 
Aryaman,  nor  Eudra,  nor  any  enemies  can  resist." 

In  the  next  text,  'rudra'  is  merely  an  epithet  of  AgnL 

E.  V.  iii,  2,  5. Рђћ Agnim  sumnai/a  dadhire  purojanah  vaja-iraoasam^^ 
ika  vrikta-barhiskalt  \  yata-sruchah  swucham  viha-devyam  rud/ramyajna- 
nam  sadhad-ishtim  apasam  \  "  Men,  having  prepared  the  sacrificial  grass, 
and  holding  laxUes,  have,  to  obtain  his  blessing,  placed  in  their  front 
Agni,  renowned  for  wealth,  the  brilliant,  acceptable  to  all  the  gods, 
the  terrible  (ritdra),  who  fulfils  the  objects  of  sacrifices  and  rites." 

In  the  first  verse  of  the  hymn  next  quoted  also,  'rudra'  is  merely  an 
epithet  of  Agni.  In  verse  6,  on  the  other  hand,  Eudra  is  the  name 
of  a  god. 

E.  V.  iv.  3,  1. Рђћ A  1)0  rajanam  adkvarasya  rudram  hotdram  mtya- 
yajam  rodasyoh  \  Agnim  purd  tanayitnor  achittdd  hiranya-rupam  avase 
krinudhoam  \  6.  Kad  dMshnydsu  vridhasdno  Agne  had  Vatdya  pratavase 
iubhamye  \  parijmane  ndsatydya  kshe  Iravah  kad  Agne  Rudraya 
nri-ghne^"  |  (verse  7  is  quoted  above,  p.  78).  "  Before  the  thunderbolt 
[falls]  unawares,  call  to  your  succour  Agni,  the  terrible  (rudra)  king 
of  the  sacrifice,  the  invoker  in  both  worlds,  offering  genuine  worship, 
the  golden-formed.  ...  6.  "Wilt  thou,  Agni,  who  delightest  in  the 
altars,  wilt  thou  declare  [our  sin]  "  to  Vata,  the  energetic,  the  bestower 

1'  This  word  is  explained  by  Sayana  in  this  place  as  =manush,yelhyah  preritannam, 
"who  has  sent  food  to  men,"  and  on  E.V.  yi.  35,  4,  as=v3jair  balair praaiddhah, 
"famed  for  force."  In  the  Nighantus  (ii.  7,  17)  two  senses  are  assigned  to  vaja, 
"food,"  and  "battle,"  and  to  iremas  are  ascribed  (ii.  7,  10)  the  meanings  "food," 
and  "wealth."  In  the  Nirukta  iv.  24  (where  K.V.  iv.  38,  6,  is  explained),  the  senses 
"praise"  or  "wealth"  are  attributed  to  the  latter  word;  in  Ifir.  ix.  10,  the  sense 
of  "praise";  in  Nir.  x.  3,  that  of  "food";  and  in  Nir.  xi.  9,  that  of  "renown." 
Bohtlingk  and  Eoth  assign  to  mja  the  senses  (1)  of  "swiftness,  spirit,"  (2)  ."running 
a  race,  conflict,"  (3)  "pri^e  of  victory  in  a  race,  spoil,"  (4)  "gain,  reward,  valuable 
possession,"  etc.;  and  explain  the  compound  vaja-Sravas,  "contending  in  a  race," 
comparing  it  with  vaja-srit,  to  which  they  ascribe  the  same  meaning,  and  which  is 
explained  by  Sayana  in  E,V.  ix.  43,  6,  saРђћsangrama-saranah,  "moving  in  battle." 

Pro┬Б  Aufrecht  sees  no  reason  why  vajasrcmas  should  be  interpreted  differently  from 
vasus'ravas,  and  translates  it  "renowned  for  power  or  wealth,"  comparing  gomad 
VQJmat  s'ravas,  E.V.  i.  9,  7 ;  vajaya,  iravase  ishe  cha,  vi.  17,  4  (vi.  1,  11) ;  ix.  67,  6 ; 
iv.  36,  9 ;  mahi  iravo  vajam,  vi.  70,  S ;  sa  vaj'am  darsM  sa  iha  irmo  dhah,  i.  69,  3 ; 
mjam  ukthyam,  z.  140,  1 ;  aihi  vajam  uta  s'rava^,  ix.  1,  4 ;  ix.  6,  3 ;  vajaih  jesAi 
Irmo  hrihat,  ix.  44,  6 ;  ix.  63,  12 ;  ix.  87,  5. 

'">  Comp.  purusha-ghmtm  in i.  114, 10,  above, p.  303.      21  gge  the  preceding  verse. 


EEGARDING  EUDEA  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  311 

of  blessings,  the  circumambient,  the  truthful  ?  "Wilt  thou  declare  it  to 
the  earth,  and  to  the  man-slaying  Eudra?" 

E.V.  V.  3,  3,  quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  80. 

E.V.  V.  41,  2. Рђћ Te  no  Mitro  Varuno  Aryama  "yur  Indrah  RibhuksMh 
Maruto  jushanta  \  namohhir  va  ye  dadhate  suvriktim  stomarh  Rudr&ya 
milhushe  safoshdh  \  "May  Mitra,  Varuna,  Aryaman,  Ayu,  India, 
Eibhukshan,  the  Maruts,  be  favourable  to  us,  [and  to  those]  who, 
united  together,  offer  with  obeisances  hymns  and  praises  to  the  bounti- 
ful Eudra." 

E.V.  V.  42,  11. Рђћ Tarn  u  shtuM  yah  svishuh  sudhatwa  yo  vi^vasya 
kshayati  Iheshajasya  \  yalcskoa  make  saumanasaya  Rudram  namohhir 
devam  aswam  duvasya  |  .  .  .  .  15.  Eaha  stoma  mdrutarh  iwrdho  achjia 
Rudrasya  sunun  yuvanyun  uA  aiyah  \  ityddi  \  "Praise  him  who  has 
excellent  arrows  and  bow,  who  commands  aU  remedies.  Worship 
Eudra  to  [obtain  his]  great  benevolence :  with  prostrations  adore  the 

spiritual  deity 15.  May  this  hymn   ascend  to  the  troop  of 

Maruts,  to  the  sons  of  Eudra,  who  comport  themselves  as  youths,"  etc. 

E.V.  V.  46,  2  (V.S.  33,  48),  quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  80. 

E.V.  V.  51,  13. Рђћ  VUve  devdh  no  adya  svastaye  vaisvanaro  vasur 
Agnih  svastaye  \  devdh  avantu  Rilhamah  svastaye  svasti  no  Rudrah  patu 
amhasah  |  "May  all  the  gods,  may  Agni,  the  beneficent,  worshipped 
by  all  men,  may  the  divine  Eibhus,  preserve  us  for  our  welfare.  May 
Eudra  bless  and  preserve  us  from  calamity." 

E.V.  v.  62,  16. Рђћ Pra  ye  me  handhveshe  ga┬Дi  voohanta  surayah  Prisnim 
vochanta  mdtaram  \  adha  pitaram  ishminam  Rudrarh  voehanta  sikvasah  \ 
"  These  wise  and  powerful  [Maruts],  who,  when  I  was  inquiring  after 
their  kindred,  declared  to  me  that  the  Earth,  Pri^ni,  was  their  mother, 
and  that  the  rapid  Eudra  was  their  father"  (see  above,  p.  306,  note  11). 

E.V.  V.  59,  8. Рђћ Mimdtu  Dyaw  Aditir  mtaye  nah  sam  ddnu-ehitrah 
ushaso  yatantam  \  dehwhyavwr  divyam,  ho&am  ete  rishe  Rudrasya  Ma/ruto 
grindndh  |  "May  Dyaus  and  Aditi  provide  for  our  enjoyment:  may 
the  dawns,  glittering  with  moisture,  strive  [in  our  behalf].  These 
Maruts,  [the  sons]  of  Eudra,  when  lauded,  0  rishi,  have  caused  the 
celestial  treasure  to  drop  down." 

E.V.  V.  60,  5. Рђћ Ajyeshthaso  akanishthdsah  ete  sam  hhrdtaro  vdvndhuh 
sauhhagdya  |  yv/vd  pita  svapah  Rud/rah  eshdm  sudugha  Prisnih  sudind 
"  These  brothers  (the  Maruts),   among  whom  there 


312  TEXTS  FROM  THE  EIGVEDA 

is  no  distinction  of  elder  and  younger  (comp:  E.  V.  v.  59,  6,  where 
also  ttese  epithets  occur),  have  grown  to  prosperity.  Eudra,  their 
young  and  energetic  father,  and  the  prolific  Prisni,  [have  created] 
fortunate  days  for  the  Maiuts." 

E.V.  vi.  16,  39. Рђћ Ya  ugrah  voa  ia/rya-ha  tigma-iringo  na  vamsagah  \ 
Agne  pwro  rurojitha  \  "  Thou,  Agni,  who  art  fierce  {ugra),  like  an 
archer,  like  a  sharp-horned  bull,  hast  broken  down  castles." 

On  this  the  commentator  remarks :  "  Ru3/ro  vai  esha  yad  Agnir"  iti 
irufeh  |  Sudra-kritam  api  lyipura-dahanam  Agni-hritam  eva  iti  Agnih 
duyate  \  "For  the  Veda  says  that  'this  Agni  is  Eudra.'  It  is  here 
said  in  praise  of  Agni,  that  the  burning  of  the  Tripuia  (or  the  three 
cities),  though  done  by  Eudra,  was  done  by  Agni."  Another  explana- 
tion of  the  commentator  is  that  Agni  was  present  in  Eudra's  arrow  on 
that  occasion.  All  this,  however,  is  merely  said  with  the  view  of 
bringing  the  Veda  into  harmony  with  later  stories. 

E.V.  vi.  28,  7  (A.  V.  iv.  21,  7). Рђћ Prajavatih  suyavasam  risantlh 
suddhah  apah  suprapdne  pihantih  \  ma  vah  stenah  Uata  ma  'ghasamsah 
pari  vo  hetih  Rudrasya  vrijyah  \  "Be  ye  (cows)  prolific,  consuming 
excellent  pasture,  drinking  pure  waters  in  a  good  pond.  May  no 
thief  or  wicked  man  have  power  over  you.  May  the  bolt  of  Eudra 
avoid  you." 

E.V.  vi.  49,  10. Рђћ Bhv/vanasya  pitarafh  girlhir  abhih  Rudram,  diva 
vardhaya  Rudram  aktau  \  Irihantam  rishvam  cymram  sushumnam  ridhag 
humma  Ttmimshitasah  \  "Magnify  with  these  songs,  the  father  of  the 
world,  Eudra,  by  day,  [magnify]  Eudra  by  night.  Let  us,  impelled 
by  the  poet,  severally  invoke  [him]  the  mighty,  the  exalted,  the  un- 
decaying,  the  beneficent." 

E.y.  vi.  60,  4. Рђћ Ano  Rudrasya  sunavo  namantdm  adya  hutdso  Vasavo 
adhrishtah  ]  ityadi  |  (verse  12  is  quoted  above,  p.  82).  "May  the 
sons  of  Eudra,  the  irresistible  Vasus  (or  gods),  invoked  to-day,  stoop 
down  to  us,"  etc v.  12  (translated  above,  p.  82). 

E.V.  vi.  66,  3. Рђћ Rudrasya  ye  milhushah  santi  putrah  yam┬Д  cho  nu 
iadhrivir  hharadhyai  \  vide  hi  mdtd  maho  mahi  sa  sd  it  Prikdh  sulhve 
garhham  d  adhdt  \  ....  11.  Tarn  vridhantam  mdrutam  hhrdjad-rishtiih 
Rudrasya  sunum,  havasd  d  vivdse  \  iiyddi  \ Рђћ "Those  who  are  the  sons 
of  the  bountiful  Eudra,  and  whom  he  upholds  for  their  nourishment. 
For  the  mighty  mother  possessed  these  mighty  sons.     This  Prisni  was 


REGARDING  RUBRA  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  ┬Б13 

pregnant  for  an  illustriolis  birth 11.  I  worship  with  invoca- 
tion this  growing  race  of  the  Maruts,  with  shining  weapons,  the 
offspring  of  Eudra,"  etc. 

E.V.  vi.  74,  1  ff, Рђћ Soma-Ru&ra  dharayethcm  aswyam  pra  vam 
ishtayo  'ram  ainuvmtu  \  dame  dame  sapta  ratna  dadhana  sam  no  hhutam 
dvipade  sam  ehatushpade  \  2  (A.  V.  7,  42,  1).  Soma-Rudra  vi  vrihatam 
vishucMm  amivd  ya  no  gayam  dviveSa  |  are  Mdhetham  Nirritim parachair 
asme  hhadra  sausravasani  santu  \  3  (A.  V.  7,  42,  2).  Soma-Rudra 
yuvam  etani  asme  vUva  tanushu  hheshajdm  dhattam  \  ava  syatam  mun- 
chatam  yad  no  aiti  tanushu  haddham  hritam  eno  asmat  \  4.  Tigma- 
yudhau  tigma-hetl  suhvau  Soma  Rudrdv  iha  su  mrilatam  nah  \  pra  no 
munchatam  Varunasya  pdidd  gopdyatam  nah  sumanasyamdnd  |  "  Soma 
and  Eudra,  do  ye  grasp  divine  power.  May  oblations  in  abundance 
reach  you !  In  every  house,  bearing  with  you  seven  jewels,  be  favour- 
able to  our  bipeds  and  our  quadrupeds.  2.  Soma  and  Eudra,  drive  far 
away  that  disease  which  has  entered  into  our  abode.  Chase  Mrriti  far 
away  from  us.  May  we  have  excellent  renown.  3.  Soma  and  Eudra, 
infuse  into  our  bodies  all  these  remedies.  Eemove  and  banish  from  us 
whatever  sin  we  have  done  which  attaches  to  our  bodies.  4.  Soma 
and  Eudra,  whose  weapons  are  sharp,  and  whose  bolts  are  piercing,  be 
beneficent  and  favourable  to  us.  Deliver  us  from  the  noose  of  Varuna ; 
protect  us,  regarding  us  with  favour." 

E.V.  vii.  10,  4. Рђћ Indram  no  Agne  Vasubhih  sajoshdh  Rudram  Rudre- 
IMr  a  vaha  hrihantam  \  Adityebhir  Aditim  viha-janydm  Brihaspatim 
rikvalMr  viha-vdram  \  "  Agni,  united  with  the  Vasus,  bring  hither  to 
us  Indra;  with  the  Eudras  [bring]  the  powerful  Eudra,  with  the 
Adityas  [bring]  Aditi,  who  is  acceptable  to  all,  and  with  the  bards 
[bring]  the  Brihaspati  who  grants  all  boons." 

E.V.  vii.  35,  6. Рђћ  ....  S'am  no  Rudro  RudrehMr  jaldshah  .... 
"May  the  healing  Eudra,  with  the  Eudras,  be  favourable  to  us,"  etc. 

E.V.  vii.  36,  5. Рђћ Yajante  asya  sakhyam  vayas  cha  namasvinah  we 
ritasya  dhdman  \  vi  priksho  bdhadhe  nrihhih  stavdnah  idam  namo  Rudrdya 
preshtham  \  "  Men  making  obeisance  in  their  own  place  of  sacrifice, 
seek  by  worship  his  friendship,  and  life.  Lauded  by  men,  he  has 
distributed  food  amongst  them.    This  reverence  is  most  dear  to  Eudra." 

E.V.  vii.  40,  5  (quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  85). 

B.V.  vii.  41,  1  (V.  8.  34,  34;   A.  V.  3,  16,   l).РђћPrdtar  Agnim 


314  EEMAEKS  ON  THE  EPITHET  "SVAPIVATA." 

prata/r  Indram  havamahe  prdfar  Mitrd-  Varund  pratar  Ahind  |  pratar 
Bhagam  Pushanam  Brahmanaspatim  prdtah  Somam  uta  Budram  Jmvema  \ 
"In  the  morning  we  invoke  Agni,  in  the  morning  Indra,  in  the  morn- 
ing Mitra  and  Varuna,  in  the  morning  the  A^vins ;  in  the  morning  let 
us  invoke  Bhaga,  Pushan,  Brahmanaspati,  Soma,  and  Eudra." 

K.V.  vii.  46, 1  (Nirukta  x.  6). Рђћ Imdh  Bud/rdya  sthira-dhanvane girah 
Jcshipreshcwe  devaya  svadhavne  '^  |  ashdlkdya  sahamandya  vedhase  tigmd- 
yudhdya  hharatd  irinotu  nah  \  2.  Sa  hi  Jcshayena  kshamyasya  janmanah 
sdmrdjyena  dvoyasya  ehetati  \  avann  avantir  upa  no  d/wrai  cha/ra  anamivo 
Budra  jdsu  no  bhava  \  3  (Nirukta  x.  7). Рђћ  Td  te  didyud  avasrishtd 
d/ivas  pari  Tcshmayd  charati  pari  sd  vrinahtu  nah  \  sahasram  te  svapivdta'^ 

''  Prof.  Eoth  (lUust.  of  Nir.,  p.  135)  considers  the  word  svadhavat  to  signify 
"independent,"  "whose  glory  is  inherent,"  etc.,  and  refers  to  E.V.  vii.  20,  1;  Tii. 
37,  2 ;  vii.  86,  4.  At  p.  40  f.  of  his  Illustrations  Eoth  assigns  to  svadham  emu,  etc., 
the  sense  of  "according  to  one's  own  determination,"  "according  to  pleasure,"  and 
quotes  the  following  passages  where  it  has  this  sense,  viz. :  E.V.  i.  6,  4;  i.  33,  11 ; 
i.  81,  4 ;  ii.  3,  11 ;  iii.  47,  1 ;  vii.  78,  4 ;  and  viii.  20,  7.  On  svadha  see  also  Prof. 
Miiller's  Transl.  of  the  E.V.,  pp.  19-25. 

^3  This  word  is  not  explained  in  the  printed  text  of  Sayana;  although  in  the 
"  Varietas  Lectionis,"  appended  to  his  preface,  Prof.  MUller  notes  that  in  one  MS., 
B.  4,  svapivata  is  rendered  hy jitaprana,  "he  by  whom  life  (or  breath)  is  conquered." 
In  the  Nirukta,  i.  7,  it  is  explained  by  smpta-vachana,  "  thou  whose  words  are  very 
suitable  or  authoritative."  In  his  Illustrations  of  the  Nirukta,  pp.  135  f..  Prof. 
Eoth  has  some  remarks  on  the  word,  which  I  translate:  "Svapimta  in  the  Pada  text 
is  divided  into  su-\-apivata,  and  is  consequently  to  be  derived  from  api-\-vat,  a 
compound,  which  is  often  found  in  the  E.V.,  viz.  in  vii.  3, 10,  api  kratmh  suehetasam 
vatema ;  vii.  60,  6,  api  kratum  suehetasam  vatantah;  i.  128,  2,  tarn  yajna-sadham 
api  vatayamasi ;  i.  165,  13,  manmani  chitrah  api  vatayantah;  x.  25,  1,  bhadram  no 
api  vataya  mano  daksham  uta  kratum  ;  x.  13,  5,  pitre  putraso  apy  avwafann  ritam  | 
It  has  the  signification  of  '  learning  to  understand,'  '  appropriating  to  one's  self,'  and 
in  the  causal  'to  teach  to  understand,'  agreeing  entirely  with  the  Zend  word  of 
similar  form,  which  as  yet  no  one  had  been  able  to  discover  in  Sanskrit.  The  word 
{svapivata)  thus  means  'readily  understanding,  hearing,  accessible,  gracious.'  Taska's 
explanation  appears  right,  and  Durga  has  misunderstood  it,  when  he  explains  the 
word  by  anatikramanJyajna  ('thou  whose  command  cannot  be  transgressed')."  I  have 
to  remark,  however,  that  if  Yaska's  phrase  mapta-vachana  have  the  sense  I  have 
above  assigned  to  it  of  "  speaking  with  authority,"  (see  the  third  vol.  of  this  work, 
pp.  124,  127  f.,  and  elsewhere)  it  means  nearly  what  Durga  asserts.  Prof.  Eoth, 
however,  must  have  taken  it  to  mean  "  thou  by  whom  words  (prayers)  are  readily 
received,  or  apprehended."  Otherwise  it  could  not  harmonize  with  the  sense  he 
regards  as  the  right  one.  In  his  Lexicon,  a.v.  vat-\-ttpi,  Prof.  Eoth  adheres  to  the 
meanings  assigned  to  the  compound  verb  in  his  "Illustrations,"  rendering  it  "to 
understand,  comprehend,"  and  in  the  causal  "  to  cause  to  understand,  to  make  com- 
prehensible ";  and  assigning  to  the  words  bhadram  no  api  vataya  manah  in  x.  20,  1 
and  X.  25,  1,  the  sense  of  "awaken  in  us  a  good  sense."    Prof.  Aufrecht  assigns  to 


TEXTS  EEGAEDING  EUDEA  AND  THE  EUDEAS,  315 

hheshafd  md  nas  tokeshu  tanayeshu  rlruJiah  \  4.  Ma  no  vadMh  Rudra  ma 
para  ddh  ma  te  bhuma  prasitau  hilitasya  \  a  no  Ihaja  harhishijlva-samse^ 
yuyam  pata  wastihhih  sadd  nah  |  "  Present  these  songs  to  Eudra  with 
the  strong  bow,  and  swift  arrows,  the  self-dependent  god,  unassailable, 
the  assailant,  the  disposer,  armed  with  sharp  weapons :  may  he  hear 
us.  2.  Through  his  power  he  perceives  the  terrestrial  race,  and 
through  his  universal  dominion  [he  perceives]  the  divine.  Protecting 
us,  approach  our  protecting  doors ;  Eudra,  remove  sickness  from  our 
offspring.  3.  May  that  shaft  of  thine  which  is  discharged  from  the 
sky,  and  traverses  the  earth,  avoid  us.  Thou,  who  art  easy  of  access, 
hast  a  thousand  remedies.  Injure  us  not  in  our  children  and  descen- 
dants. 4.  Slay  us  not,  Eudra ;  do  not  abandon  us ;  let  us  not  fall  into 
thy  net  when  thou  art  incensed.  Give  us  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  desired 
by  the  living.    Do  ye  always  succour  us  with  your  benedictions." 

E.V.  vii.  56,  1  (S.  V.  i.  433). Рђћ Ke  Im  vyaUdh  narah  samldh  Rudrasya 
marydh  adha  svasvdh  \  2.  Nahvr  hi  eshdm  janumM  veda  te  cmga  vidre 
mitho  janitram  \  "Who  are  these  brilliant  heroes,  the  sons  of  Eudra, 
occupying  the  same  abode,  riding  on  excellent  horses  ?  No  one  knows 
their  births.  They  [themselves]  know  tiie  place  of  their  common 
production." 

E.V.  vii.  58,  5. Рђћ Tan  a  Rudrasya  milhusho  vivdse  ityadi  \  "  I  wor- 
ship these  [sons]  of  the  bountiful  Eudra,"  etc. 

tvapivata  the  sense  "  possessed  of  great  knowledge,"  from  sM-j-aptVato,  "  intelligence, 
knowledge,"  which  again  comes  from  api-\-<iat,  to  which  he  considers  that  the  proptr 
meaning  has  heen  assigned  by  Prof.  Eoth.  Sayana  explains  as  follows  the  texts  qnoted 
above,  viz.  E.V.  vii.  3, 10 :  Apy  apt  eha  kratum  km-ma  yajnanam  kartaraih  va  suehe- 
tasam  t'obhana-prajnana-t/uktam  suprajnanam  putram  va  vatema  sambhajemahi  | 
vanaWh  sambhajanarthasya  varnantaragame  sati  rupam  |  "  And  further  may  we  gain 
a  rite,  or  a  performer  of  sacrifices  possessed  of  good  intelligence,  or  a  very  intelligent 
eon.  Van,  which  means  'to  divide'  (or  gain),  becomes  vat  by  the  alteration  of  a 
letter."  He  interprets  vii.  60,  6,  thus :  Api  euchetasam  prakrishta-jnanavantam 
puruskam  kratiim  kartaram  karmanmhthanavantam  vatnnto  gachhantalf  \  "going 
to  a  man,  a  performer  of  rites  possessed  of  eminent  intelligence."  The  verb  in  E.V. 
i.  128Рђъ2,  is'tbus  expounded:  a pclHUaham  smidmahe  "we  serve  till  we  are  satisfied"  ; 
and  in  i.  165,  13,  thus :  sampurnam  prSpayantah,  "completely  bringing  to  us";  in 
A.  20,  1,  by  agamm/a,  "  cause  to  come  ";  in  x.  25,  1,  by  gamaya,,  "  cause  to  go  ";  in 
X.  13,  5,  by  sangamayanti,  "cause  to  go  together." 

'*  This  word  appears  from  Bbhtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon  to  occur  twice  in  the 
E.V.,  viz.  in  i.  104,  6,  and  the  present  passage.  They  make  it  a  substantive,  signi- 
fying "  rule  over  the  living."  Eenfey,  in  his  translation  of  i.  104,  6,  renders  the 
word  "  to  be  praised  among  men."  Sayana  has  there  kamayitavye,  "to  be  desired "; 
and  here  asamtantye,  which  means  the  same. 


316  TEXTS  OF  THE  EIGVEDA 

E.V.  viii.  13,  20. Рђћ Tad  id  Rudrasya  cketati  yahvam,  pratneshu  dhd- 
masu  I  mano  yatra  vi  tad  dadhur  viohetasah  \  "  That  great  (manifesta- 
tion) of  Rudra  [or  the  terrible  (Indra)'*]  is  perceived  in  the  ancient 
abodes,  and  on  it  the  wise  have  therefore  fixed  their  minds." 

E.V.  viii.  20,  17. Рђћ  Yatha  Rudrasya  sunmo  divo  vaianti  asurasya 
vedhasah  \  yuvanas  tatha  it  asat  |  "  As  the  youthful  sons  of  Rudra,  the 
wise  deity  of  the  sky,  desire,  so  shall  it  be." 

R.V.  viii.  22,  13. Рђћ  .  .  .  .  Td  u  namohhir  Imahe  \  14.  Tav  id  dosha 
tdv  ushasi  suhhas  patl  td  ydman  rud/ra-vwrtani"^  \  ma  no  martdya  ripave 
mjini'Vasu  paro  rudrdv  ati  Myatam  \  "We  invoke  them  (the  Asvins), 
with  adoration,  (14)  at  evening  and  at  dawn,  and  on  their  path,  the  two 
lords  of  splendour,  proceeding  on  terrible  roads.  Do  not,  0  terrible 
{rudrau)  lords  of  swift  horses,"  abandon  us  to  our  mortal  enemy." 

R.V.  viii.  29,  5.  (quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  90). 

R.V.  viii.  61,  3. Рђћ Antmr  ichhanti  tarn  jane  rudram  paro  manuhaya  | 
grilhnanti  jihvayd  sasam^  \  "  They  entreat  the  god  (Agni),  who  is 
terrible  (rudra)  beyond  all  thought,'''  [to  enter]  among  the  people. 
With  their  tongue  they  take  food  (or  seize  him  sleeping)." 

R.V.  X.  64,  8. Рђћ Trih  sapfa  sasrdh  nadyo  mahlr  apo  vanaspatln  pa/rva- 
tdn  Agnim  utay^  |  Krisanum  astrin  Tiskyam  sadhasthe  d  JRudraih 
JRudreshu  rudriyam  havamahe  \  "We  invoke  to  our  aid  in  the  assembly 
of  sacrifice,  the  three  times  seven  swift  rivers,  the  great  waters,  the 
trees,  the  mountains,  Agni,  Krisanu,  the  archers,  Tishya,  and  Rudra, 
among  the  Rudras,  and  possessing  their  character." 

"'  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  rndra,  hold  the  word  to  be  here  an  epithet  of  Indra. 
The  rest  of  the  hymn  is  addressed  to  him, 

'*  This  word  rudra-vartam  is  also  applied  to  the  As'vins  in  the  first  verse  of  this 
hymn,  and  in  E.V.  x.  39,  11.  Compare  Icrishnmartani  and  krishnadhvan  as  applied 
to  Agni.     See  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  212. 

^'  This  is  the  sense  assigned  by  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth  to  vajintvasu.  Sayana  renders 
it  by  annmasu  (E.V.  v.  74,  6),  cmnadhana  (x.  40,  12)  "rich  in  food."  Elsewhere 
he  also  takes  vajini  for  food  or  oblation.  ^ 

'*  This  word  is  given  in  the  Nighantus,  2,  7,  as  signifying  food.  Sayana  takes  it 
to  mean  "sleeping,"  and  renders  the  last  clause  "men  through  praise  sprang  from 
their  tongue,  catch  Agni  with  their  fingers "  (jihva-prabhcwaya  stutya  gribhnanti 
grihrumty  angulibhih).  See  Eoth's  Illustrations  of  Nirukta,  pp.  65  and  85  f. ;  also 
E.V.  i.  51,  3  (where  Benfey  renders  sasena  "in  sleep  ") ;  iii.  5,  6 ;  iv.  5,  7 ;  iv.  7, 
7;  V.  21,4;  x.  79,  3. 

*9  This  interpretation  is  confirmed  by  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  s.v.  mamtha,  who  refer 
to  E.V.  V.  17,  2,  as  another  passage  where  the  phrase  occurs. 


REGARDING  KUDRA  AND  OTHER  DEITIES.  317 

R.V.  X.  65,  1  (quoted  and  translated  above,  p.  95). 
,  E.V.  X.  66,  3. Рђћ Ind/ro  Vasuhhih  paripdtu  no  gayam  Adityair  no 
Aiitih  iarma  yaohhatu  \  Mudro  Rudrehhir  devo  mrilayati  nas  Tvashta 
no  gnahhih  suvitaya  jimatu  \  "May  Indra  with,  the  Vasus  preserve  our 
habitation ;  may  Aditi  with  the  Adityas  grant  us  protection.  May  the 
divine  Eudra  with  the  Eudras  be  gracious  to  us ;  may  Tvashtri  with, 
the  wives  (of  the  gods)  advance  us  to  prosperity." 

E.V.  X.  92,  5. Рђћ Pra  Rudrena  yayind  yanti  sindhavas  tiro  mahim 
a/ramatim^"  dadhanvire  \  yelMh  parijma  pariyann  uru  Jrayo  vi  roruvaj 
jathare  visvatn  ukshate  |  ....  9.  Stomam  vo  adya  Rvid/faya  ^ikvase 
kshayad-vlraya  namasa  didishtana  |  yebhih  swah  svavan  evayavabhir 
divah  nshakti^'- sva-yaSah  mkdmahhih  \  "The  waters  flow  [impelled]  by 
the  hastening  Eudra,  and  have  spread  over  the  vast  earth ;  with  them 
the  circumambient,  shouting  god,  who  moves  round  the  wide  space 

[of  the  earth],  moistens  all  (that  is  contained)  in  its  womb 

9.  With  reverence  present  your  hymn  to-day  to  the  mighty  Eudra, 
the  ruler  of  heroes,  [and  to  the  Maruts]  those  rapid  and  ardent  deities 
with  whom  the  gracious  and  opulent  [Eudra],  who  derives  his  renown 
from  himself,  protects  us  from  the  sky." 

E.V.  X.  93,  4. Рђћ Te  gha  rajdno  amritasya^'  mandrdh  Aryama  Mitro 
Varunah  parijmd  |  lead  Rudro  nrindm  stuto  Marutah  Pushano  Bhagah  ) 
....  7.  Uta  no  rudrd  chid  mrilatdm  Aivind  ityddi  |  "  These  are  the 

Рёб  This  word  occurs  in  different  parts  of  the  R.V.,  -where  it  is  varxonsly  interpreted 
by  Sayana.  On  ii.  38,  4,  he  explains  it  by  anuparaUh,  "never  resting,"  as  an 
epithet  of  Savitri ;  on  t.  43,  6,  as  an  epithet  of  ffnd  (a  goddess),  a  samantad  ramama- 
nam  sanatra gantrlm  m,  "sporting  all  round,  or,  going  everywhere";  on  vii.  36,  8, 
similarly,  uparati-rahitam,  "having  no  rest,"  as  an  epithet  of  mahi,  the  earth;  on 
vii,  42,  3,  as  meaning  the  earth  [hhumim) ;  on  vii.  1,  6,  as  signifying  brilliancy 
(cRptih)  \  on  v.  64,  6,  as  aramanam  dhanadikam,  "object  of  enjoyment,  wealth,"  etc.; 
on  vii.  34,  21,  as  denoting  a  being  "of  perfect  intelligence,  or  whose  intelligence 
reaches  to  all  objects,"  (paryapta-buddhih  mrva-vishaya-vyapi-biiddhir  va)  spoken 
of  Tvashtri ;  and  on  viii.  31,  12,  as  equivalent  to  alammatih  paryapta-stutih,  a  god 
"who  obtains  full,  or  complete,  worship,"  said  of  Pushan.  I  have  not  access  to  his 
commentary  on  x.  64,  15,  and  x.  92,  4,  5.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  regard  Aramati 
in  all  these  passages  but  one  as  designating  either  "  readiness  for  service,  obedience, 
devotion,"  or  "  as  a  personification  of  religious  worship,  or  active  piety."  In  viii. 
31,  12,  they  regard  it  as  signifying  "obedient,  pious."  I  cannot  see  that  any  of 
these  senses  except  that  of  earth  is  applicable  to  the  passage  before  us.  Or  Aramati 
may  here  be  an  epithet  of  the  earth. 

21  Erom  the  root  sack.    See  R.V.  i.  18,  2;  i.  56,  4 ;  and  v.  41,  20. 

32  Compare  amritasya  gopam,  R.V.  viii.  42,  2;  and  amritasya  patnih,  iv.  -5,  13. 


318         HTJtN  OP  THE  EIGVEDA  EEGAEDING  THE  KES'IK 

kings  of  immortality  who  gladden  us :  Aryaman,  Mitra,  Varuna  tlie 
circumambient,  what  (shall  we  say)  of  Eudra  celebrated  by  men, 
the  Maruts,  the  Piishans,  and  Bhaga?  ....  7.  May  the  terrible 
{rudjra)  A^vins  be  favourable  to  us,"  etc. 

E.V.  X.  125,  6  (A.  V.  4,  30,  6). Рђћ Aham  Rud/raya  dhanur  a  tanomi 
hrahma-dmshe  hrme  hantmai  u  ityadd  \  (Vach?''  speaks):  "I  bend  the 
bow  for  Eudra,  for  an  arrow  to  slay  the  hater  of  the  priest,"  etc. 

E.V.  X.  126,  5. Рђћ  ....  JJgram  Marudlhih  Buiram  hmvema  ityadi  \ 
"Let  us  invoke  the  terrible  Eudra  with  the  Maruts,"- etc. 

E.V.  X.  136,  1  (ITir.  xii.  26). Рђћ Keii  agnim  keii  visham  kesihibharti 
rodast  \  heii  viSvam  svar  drih^  keii  idam  jyotir  uehyate  \  2  |  munayo 
vdtarasandh  pUanga  vasate  mala  |  vatasyanu  dhrafim  yanti  yad  devaso 
avikshata  \  3  |  unmaditah  mauneyena  vatdn  a  tasthimd  vayam  \  Sarired 
(i.e.  iafira  id)  asmakam  yuya0t  martdso  abhi  pa^yatha  \  4  |  antarikshena 
patati  visva  rupa  'vaohdka┬Дai  \  munir  devasya  devamja  saukrityaya  aakhd 
hitah  I  5  |  Vatasydivo  Vdyoh  mkhd  afha  deveshito  munih  [  uhhau  samu- 
drdv  a  ksheti  yai  cha  purvah  utdparah  |  6  |  apsarasdm  gandhandndm 
mrigdndm  charane  oho/ran  \  keSi  ketasya  vidodn  sakhd  svddur  madintamah  j 
7.  Fayur  asmai  updmanthat  pinashti  sma  kunannamd  |  keH  visliasya 
patrena  yad  Rudrendpibat  saha  \  "The  long-haired  [being]  sustains 
fire,  water,  and  the  two  worlds ;  he  is  to  the  view  the  entire  sky ;  he  is 
called  this  light.  2.  The  wind-clad  {i.e.  naked)  munis  wear  brown 
and  soiled  (garments) ;  they  follow  the  course  of  the  wind,  when  ye, 
0  gods,  have  entered  (into  them).  3.  Transported  by  (our)  impulses  as 
munis,  we  have  pursued  the  winds.  You,  0  mortals,  behold  our.  bodies. 
4.  The  muni,  a  friend  fitted  to  gain  the  beneficent  aid  of  every  god, 
flies  through  the  air,  perceiving  all  forms.  5.  The  muni,  impelled  by 
the  gods,  the  steed  of  the  wind,  the  friend  of  Vayu,  dwells  in  both  the 
oceans,  the  eastern  and  the  western.  6.  Moving  in  the  path  of  the 
Apsarases,  the  Gandharvas,  and  the  wild  animals,  the  long-haiied 
being  is  aware  of  our  call,  and  a  sweet  and  gladdening  friend.  7. 
Vayu  agitated  for  him;  the  long-haired  [being]  breaks  down  the 
things  which  are  unbending,  by  means  of  the  vessel  of  water  {visha) 
which  he  drank  along  with  Eudra." 

Although  but  little  of  this  hymn  has  reference  to  Eudra,  I  have 

33  See  note  27  in  p.  258  of  the  third  vol.  of  this  work. 
3*  KeaT  idaih  sarvam  idam  ahhivipaiyati  \  Рђћ ^Nir.  xii.  26. 


EEMAEKS  ON  THE  KES'IN  OR  MUNI.  319 

quoted  it  entire  on  account  of  the  interest  it  possesses  in  another 
respect.  The  first  verse  is  explained  in  the  Nirukta  x.  26  ;  and  Prof. 
Eoth,  in  his  Illustrations  of  that  work,  p.  164,  has  the  following  note 
on  the  subject  of  the  hymn :  "  The  hymn,"  he  says,  "  shows  the  con- 
ception that  by  a  life  of  sanctity  {mauneyena,  verse  3)  the  muni  can 
attain  to  the  fellowship  of  the  deities  of  the  air,  the  Vayus,  the  Rudras, 
the  Apsarases,  find  the  Gandharvas ;  and,  furnished  like  them  with 
wonderful  powers,  can  travel  along  with  them  on  their  course.  Trans- 
cending even  this,  the  verse  before  us  says  that  the  beautiful-haired, 
the  long-haired,  that  is  to  say,  the  Muni,  who  during  the  time  of  his 
austerities,  does  not  shave  his  hair,  upholds  fire,  moisture,  heaven,  and 
earth,  and  resembles  the  world  of  light,  ideas  which  the  later  literature 
so  largely  contains.  Similarly  in  an  older  hymn,  R.  Y.  vii.  56,  8,  an 
unusual  power  of  the  Muni  is  celebrated,  when  it  is  said  of  the  winds  : 
S'ubJirovah  iushmah  hrudhml  mandmsi  dhunir  munir  iva sardhasya  dhrish- 
noh,  where  Sayana  explains  the  word  mananad  munih  stota  ('the muni, 
from  the  root  "man,"  is  one  who  praises');  and  where  the  representa- 
tion above  given  is  in  any  case  to  be  found  in  its  germ."  \ 

Although,  in  his  Lexicon  (see  s.v.  muni),  Prof.  Eoth  no  longer 
adheres  to  Sayana's  explanation  of  the  word  muni,  as  applicable  to  the 
last-mentioned  passage,  where  he  thinks  it  may  mean  "  pressure,  crowd, 
impulse,"  he  takes  the  same  view  as  formerly  of  the  hymn  before  us 
(x.  136),  and  defines  the  word  muni  as  signifying  "(one  who  is  driven 
by  an  inward  impulse),  a  person  inspired,  or  in  a  state  of  ecstacv; 
with  this  conception  of  the  word,"  he  proceeds,  "agrees  what  is  said  of 
the  ecstaoy  and  deification  of  the  muni  in  E.  V.  x.  136,  2,  4,  deveshito 
munih  ('the  god-impelled  muni'),  v.  5,  and  what  is  related  in  the 
Aitareya  Brahmana  vi.  33,  of  the  Muni  Aitasa,  whom  his  son  regards 
as  mad.  Indro  muninam  mhha,  'Indra  is  the  friend  of  munis,'  E.  V. 
viii.  17,  14."  I  subjoin  the  passage  of  the  Aitareya  Brahmana  vi.  33, 
here  referred  to : 

Aitaia-pralapam iamsati  \  Aitaso ha  vai munir  ^'Agner  aywr"^^ dada/rka 
yajnasya  ayataydmam  iti  ha  eke  ahuh  \  so'  hravit  putran  " putrakah 
'Agner  dyur''  adarsam  \  tad  alhilapishydmi  \  yat  kineha  vadami  tad 
me  ma  pa/rigata  "  iti  \  sa  pratyapadyata  "  etah  a┬Дvdh  dpla/vante  praftpam 

2'  The  words  Agner  ayur  asi  tasya  te  occur  in  the  Kathata,  according  to  the  list 
of  initial  words  of  passages  given  by  Veber,,Ind.  Stud.,  iii.  289. 


320  STOET  ABOUT  THE  MUNI  AITAS'A. 

pratuutvanam"  (A.  V.  xx.  129,  1)  iti  |  tasya  Alhyagnir  Aitaidi/anak' 
aitya  akdle  'hhihaya  muJcham  apyagrihnad  "  adripat  nah  pita."  iti  \  tain 
ha  uvdcka  "  apehy  alaso  hhur  yo  me  vdcham  avadkih  \  iatdyum  gdm  aka- 
rishyam  sahasrdyum  pwrusham  \  pdpishthdm  te  prajdm  karomi  yo  md  ittham 
asakthdh"  iti  |  tasmdd  dhur  "  Abhyagnayah  Aitaidyandh  Avrvdndm 
pdpishthdh"  iti  \  "He  repeats  the  Aitasa-pralapa.  The  Muni  Aitasa 
beheld  (i.e.  received  a  revelation  of)  the  '  Agner  ayuh'  ('Agni's  life,' 
etc.),  which,  some  say,  renders  the  sacrifice  efficacious.''  He  said  to 
his  sons,  '  Sons,  I  have  seen  "  Agni's  life  ;"  and  will  speak  of  it.  Do 
not  fail  to  attend  to''  what  I  say.'  He  then  obtained  (by  revelation) 
the  verse  beginning  etdh  aivdh,  etc.  Abhyagni,  of  the  family  of  Aitasa, 
came  unseasonably,  and  stopped  his  mouth,  saying  '  our  father  is  mad.' 
His  father  said,  '  Go,  become  destitute  of  energy,''  thou  who  hast 
stopped  my  words.  I  should  otherwise  have  made  kine  live  a  hundred 
years,  and  men  a  thousand.  Since  thou  hast  so  done  violence  to  me,  I 
make  thy  offspring  most  degraded.  Hence  they  say  that  the  Abhyagnis 
of  the  family  of  Aitasa  are  the  most  degraded  of  all  the  Aurvas." 

Compare  Professor  Kuenen's  remarks  on  the  possible  original  sense 
of  the  Hebrew  word  nabi,  "  prophet,"  in  his  Historisch-Eritisch 
Onderzoek,  ii.  3,  and  also  pp.  16  (note  3),  and  19  (note  6). 

The  allusion  in  the  7th  verse  of  the  hymn  before  us  to  Rudra  drink- 
ing water  {yisha)  may  possibly  have  given  rise  to  the  legend  of  his 
drinking  posion  (visha). Рђћ See  above,  p.  50. 

E.V.  X.  169,  1. Рђћ Mayohhur  vdto  abhivdtu  usrdh  urjasvaiir  oshadhir 
driiantdm  \  pwasvatir  jwa-dhanydh  pihantu  avasdya  padvate^^  Budra 
mrila  \  "May  the  wind,  causing  prosperity,  blow  upon  our  cows.  Let 
them  consume  invigorating  plants ;  let  them  drink  (waters)  rich  and 
life- sustaining :  Eudra,  be  gracious  to  our  walking  sources  of  food  " 
(compare  vi.  28,  7,  above,  p.  312). 

"  Prof.  Haug  renders  ayatayamam,  "  which  should  remove  all  defects  from  the 
sacrifice";  and  Prof.  Weber,  who,  in  his  rcTiew  of  Dr.  Haug's  translation,  Indische 
Studien,  ix.  177  ff.,  dissents  from  many  of  the  translator's  renderings,  expresses  here 
no  difference  of  opinion,  see  p.  304. 

"  Weber  here  differs  from  Haug's  rendering  of  parigata  by  "do  not  scorn  me," 
and  translates  iibergehet  [uierhoret  mir  dies  nicht)  was  ich  auch  sagen  mag,  which  is 
also  the  sense  assigned  in  Bohtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon ;  and  has  been  given  by  me. 

'8  Haug  translates,  "Become  infected  with  leprosy";  Weber,  "become  destitute 
of  energy." 

"  Favad  avasam  gavah  |  Рђћ Nir.  i.  1 7. 


V.S.  TEST  REGARDING  EUDRA  AND  AMBIKA.  321 

Sect.  II. Рђћ Passages  relating  to  Rud/ra  in  the  Vajasaneyi  recension  of 
the  white  T<yur-  Veda. 

I  now  proceed  to  quote  from  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  the  principal 
texts  which  it  contains  relative  to  Eudra. 

Vaj.  S.  3,  57ff. Рђћ Esha  te  Rudra  bhdgah  saha  svasra  Amlihaya  tarn 
jushasva  svaha  \  esha  te  Rucka  Ihagah  akhus  te  pasuh*"  \  58.  Ava  Rudram 
adlmahy  ava  devam  tryamhaham  \  yatha  no  vasyasas  hwrad  yatha  nah 
kreyasas  karad  yatha  no  vyavasayayat  \  59.  Bheshajam  asi  Iheshajam 
gave  'haya  purushaya  Iheshajam  \  sukham  meshaya  meshyai  \  60 
(=E.  V.  vii.  59,  12;  Taitt.  S.  i.  8,  6,  2).  Tryamhakam  yajamahe 
sugandMm  pushti-vardhanam  \  urvarukam  iva  landhandd  mrityor  mu- 
kshlya  ma  'mritdt  |  tryamhakam  yajamahe  sugandhim  pativedanam  *'  | 
urvarukam  iva  landhandd  ito  muksMya  md  'mutah  \  61  (T.  S.  i.  8,  6,  2). 
Etat  te  Rudra  avasaih  tena  pa/ro  Muja/oato  atihi  \  avatata-dhanvd  pinakd- 
vasah  kritti-vdsah  ahimsan  nah  iivo  'tthi  |  62.  Trydyushafh  Jamadagneh 
Kakyapasya  trydyusham  \  yad  deveshu  trydyusham  tad  no  astu  tyrydyusham  \ 
63.  Si'ivo  ndmd  'si  svadhitis  te  pita  namas  te  astu  md  md  himsih  \  nivarta- 
ydmy  dyushe  annddydya  prqjanandya  rdyasposhdya  sv/prajdstvdya  suvir- 
ydya  \ 

"This  is  thy  portion,  Eudra,  with  thy  sister  Ambika;  accept  it 
with  favour,  may  it  be  fortunate  (svdhd).  This  is  thy  portion;  thy 
victim  is  a  mouse.  58.  "We  have  satisfied  Eudra;  we  have  satisfied 
the  god  Tryambaka,"  that  he  may  make  us  most  opulent,  most  happy, 
that  he  may  prosper  us.  59.  Thou  art  a  medicine,  a  medicine  for  kine 
and  horses,  a  medicine  for  men,  a  [source  of]  ease  to  rams  and  ewes. 
60.  "We  worship  Tryambaka,  the  sweet-scented,  the  increaser  of  pro- 
sperity.   May  I,  like  a  cucumber  [severed]  from  its  stem,  be  freed  from 

*"  The  Taittiriya  Br.  i.  6, 10,  4,  has  only  the  first  part  of  this  Terse :  Esha  te  Mudm 
bhagah  saha  svasra  Ambikaya  :  then  follow  the  words ;  ity  aha  |  S'arad  vai  asya 
Ambika  svasa  \  taya  vai  esha  hinasti  \  "  He  says,  '  This  is  thy  portion,  Eudra,  with 
thy  sister  Ambika.'  His  sister  Ambika  is  the  autumn;  with  her  he  smites  (or  kills)," 
etc.  The  commentator  on  the  passage  before  us  (of  the  Vaj.  S.)  says  in  reference  to 
this  that  Ambika  kills  by  taking  the  form  of  Autumn,  and  producing  diseases  etc. 
{iS'arad-rupam  prapya  jar-  [qu.  fjvar-']  adikam  utpadya  tarn  nirodhinam  hanti). 

*^  Com^aie patividya,  "the  acquisition  of  a  wife,"  in  Taitt.  Br.  ii.  4,  2,  7. 

*"  S,  P.  ii.  6,  2,  9.Рђћ Ambika  ha  vai  noma  asya  svasa  |  taya  'sya  esha  saha  bhagah  I 
tad  yad  asya  esha  striya  saha  bhagas  tasmat  Tryambako  nama  \  "He  has  a  sister 
called  Ambika,  with  whom  he  has  this  share ;  and  since  he  has  this  share  along  with 
a  female  {strl),  he  is  called  Tryambaka"  {i.e.  Stryambaka). 

VOL.  IV.  21 


322  THE  iS'ATAEUDEIYA. 

death,  not  [severed]  from  immortality.  We  worship  Tryambaka,  the 
sweet-scented,  who  bestows  on  us  husbands.  *"*  Like  a  cucumber 
[severed]  from  its  stem,  may  I  be  released  from  this  [world],  not 
[severed]  from  that  [world].  61.  This,  Eudra,  is  thy  provision;  with 
it  depart  beyond  the  Mujavat,  with  thy  bow  unbended,  and  concealed 
from  view,  clothed  with  a  skin,  without  injuring  us,  gracious,  cross 
over.*'  62.  Let  us  have  a  triple  life,  the  triple  life  of  Jamadagni,  the 
triple  life  of  Kaiyapa.,  the  triple  life  which  exists  among  the  gods. 
63.  Thou  art  gracious  {iiva)  by  name;  the  thunderbolt"  is  thy  father. 
Eeverence  be  to  thee :  destroy  us  not.  I  clip  thy  hair,  thee  [0  sacri- 
flcer],  that  thou  mayest  live,  have  food  to  eat,  the  power  of  procreation, 
the  possession  of  wealth,  abundant  offspring,  and  eminent  prowess."** 

The  next  passage  "which  I  shall  quote  is  the  famous  S'atarudriya,  a 
prayer,  which  is  referred  to  in  three  passages  quoted  above  from  the 
Mahabharata,  pp.  186,  193,  and  199.  It  is  translated  and  annotated 
by  Prof.  "Weber  in  his  Indische  Studien,  ii.  32  ff.  The  text  there 
translated,  and  which  is  given  in  the  preceding  pp.  26  ff.,  is  that  of 
the  TJpanishad  bearing  the  name  of  S'atarudriya. 

Vajasaneyi  Samhita,  xvi.  1  ff.  (=Taitt.  S.  iv.  5,  1,  1  ff.). Рђћ Namas  U 
Sudra  manyave  uio  te  ishave  namali^  1  l&hulhyam  uta  te.  namah  \  2.  Ya 
te  Rudra  &iva  tanur  aghora  ^papa-haUwi  \  taya  nas  tanva  {tanuvd,  T.  S.) 
iantamayd  grisantdlMchahakhi  I  3.  Tarn  ishum  girisanta  haste  lihharshi 
astave  \  iivdm  giritra  tdm  kuru  md  himslh  pwmham  jagat  \  4.  S'ivena 
vachasd  tvd  giriidchha  vaddmasi  \  yathd  nah  sarvam  ijjagad  ayahahmam 
sumandh"  asat  \  5.  Adhy  avoohad  adhivaktd  prathamo  daivyo  lhishalc\ 
ahimscha  ta/rvdn  jamhhayan iarvdiohaydtudhdnyo  ^ dhardehih pardsuva^^  | 
6.  Aaau  yas  tdmro  arunah  uta  lahhruh  sumangalah  \  ye  chainam  Rudrdh 
dbldto  dihhu  iritdh  saJiasraio  'vaisJtdih  hedah  imahe  \  7.  Asau  yo  'vasar- 

*2*  This,  the  Commentator  says,  is  spoken  ty  virgins  walking  round  the  fire. 

*2  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  351  f.,  and  note  138,  where  the  com- 
ments of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (ii.  6,  2,  17)  on  the  passage  hefore  us  are  quoted. 

"  Such  is  the  sense  assigned  to  svadhiti  in  the  Nighantus,  2,  20. 

15  Xhe  commentator  says  that  the  first  half  of  this  verse  is  addressed  to  a  razor, 
and  the  second  half  is  supposed  to  be  spoken  by  the  razor  to  the  person  to  whose 
head  it  is  to  be  applied.  He  translates  the  words  nivartayamy  aymhe,  etc.,  by  "  I 
shave  thee  that  thou  mayest  live,"  eto. 

"  The  Taitt.  S.  inserts  here  nrnnas  te  astu  dhanvcme,  "reverence  be  to  thy  bow." 

*'  Sumanah-s'aide  pumetvam  arsham  \  Comm. 

*8  Ttese  last  two  words  are  omitted  in  the  Taitt.  S. 


THE  S'ATAEUDBITA,  328 

paU  nilagrlvo  vilohita^  \  utainam  gopaj}  adriirann  adrisrann  udahdryah" 
so,  drishfo  mridayati  nah  \  8.  Namo  'stu  nlla'grivaya  sahaarahshaya 
mdhushe  |  atho  ye  asya  aatvand  aham  tebhyo  ^karam  nama^  \  9.  Pramuncha 
dhamanas  tvam  uWiayor  artnyor  jyam  \  yakoha  te  haste  ithavah  para  td 
hhagavo  vapa^"  |  10.  Vyyam  dhanuh  hapwr.dmo  vUah/o  lawman  uta  | 
aneiann  asya  yah  isha/sa^  abkur  asya  nishangadhilj,  \_-thih,  T.  S.]  |  11. 
Ya  te  hetir  mit^hushtama  haste  hahhuva  p  dhanuh  \  taya  'smdn  vihatas 
tnam  ayakshmayd pari  Ihuja^^  \  12.  Pa/rite  dhanvano  hetir  asmdn  vrin,ahtit 
vihatah  \  atho  yah  ishudkis  tava  are  asmad  nidhehi  tarn  \  13.  Avatatya 
'dhanush  tvam  sahasrdksha  iateshudhe  \  ni&rya  ialyanam  mvikhd  iivo  nah 
sumanah  bhava  |  14.  Namas  te  dyudhdya  andtatdya  dhrishnave  \  uhha- 
hhydm  uta  te  namo  hdhuhhydm  tava  dhanvame  \  15  and  16  (=R.V.  i. 
114,  7,  8,  see  above  p.  303).  17.  Namo  hiranyabdhave  sendnye  disdncha 
pataye  namo  namo  vriksheihyo  harihehbhyah  pasundm  pataye  namo 
namal),  sashpinjmrdya  tvishimate  pathindm  pataye  namo  namo  hcurikeidya 
upavitine  pushtanam  pataye  namaJ^  \  18.  Namo  babhluidya  vyddhine 
'nndndm  pataye  namo  namo  Bhmasya  hetyai  jagatam  pataye  namo  namo 
Rudrdya  dtatdyine  [atatavinej  T.  8.)  Tcshetrdndm  pataye  namo  namah 
sutdya  ahantyai  {ahantydya,  T.  S.)  vandndm  pataye  namah  \  19.  Namo 
rohitdya  sthapataye  vriksha^dm  pataye  namo  namo  bhuvantaye  vdrivas- 
kritdya  oshadhlndm  pataye  namo  namo  mantrine  vdnijdya  kakshdndm 
pataye  namo  namo  uohchairghoshdya  dhrandayate  pattindm  pataye  namah  \ 
20.  Namah  kritsndyataya  {kritsnamtdya,  T.  8.)  dhavate  satvandm  patwye 
namo  narj^ah  sahamdnaya  nivyddhine  dvyddhimndm  pataye  namo  namo 
nishangine  kakubhdya  stendndm  pataye  namo  namo  nioherave  pariohardya 
aranydndm  pataye  namah  |  21.  Namo  vanchate  parioanehate  stdyundm 
pataye  namo  namo  nishangine  ishudhimate  taskardndm  pataye  namo 
namah  srikdyihhyo  {srikdvibhyo,  T.  S.)jighdmsadbhyo  mushmtdm  pataye 
namo  namo  'simadbhyo  naktam  oharadbhyo  vikrintdnam  {prakrintdndm, 
T.  8.)  pataye  namah  |  22.  Namah  ushnishine  giriehardya  hplunchdnam 
pataye  namo  namah  ishumadbhyo  dhanvdyibhyaseha  vo  namo  namah  dtan- 
vdnehhyo  pratidadhdnebhyakha  vo  namo  namal}  dyachhadbhyo  'syadbhyai- 
eha  vo  namah  |  23.  Namo  visrijadbhyo  vidhyadbhya^  cha  vo  namo  namah 

┬Ф  The  Taitt.  S.  adds  here  utainam  visva  bhutani,  "  and  all  beings  have  seen  him." 
Рёб  The  T.  S.  introduces  here  verse  13  of  the  Vaj.  S. 

^'  The  T.  S.  inserts  the  14th  verse  here,  and  there  are  similar  transpositions  else- 
where. 


324  THE  S'ATAEITDEIYA. 

Mopaibhyo  jagradhhyai  eha  vo  namo  namak  idyanebhyah  asinelkyaicha 
vo  namo  namas  tishthadhhyo  dhavadhhyaioha  vo  namah  \  24.  Namah 
sabhabhyah  sabhapatibhyaioha  vo  namo  namo  'hebhyo  ' svapatibhyaicha  vo 
namo  namah  avyadhinibhyo  vwidhyantlbhyaicha  vo  namo  namah  ugana- 
glhyas  trimhattbhyai  cha  vo  namah  I  25.  Namo  gambhyo  ganapati- 
Ihyascha  vo  namo  namo  vratehhyo  vrdtapatibhya^cha  vo  namo  namo 
gritsebhyo  gritsapatibhyaicha  vo  namo  namo  virupebhyo  viivarupebhyaioha 
vo  namah  \  26.  Namah  sendbhyah  senanibhyaScha  vo  namo  namo  rathibhyo 
'rathebhyaieha  vo  namo  namah  Icshattribhyah  sangrahUribhyadeha  vo  namo 
namo  mahadbhyo  arbhahebhyasoha  (Jcshullakebhyak  cha,  T.  S)  vo  namahi  | 
27.  Namas  iaJcshabhyo  rathakarebhyaicha  vo  namo  namah  kuldhbhyah 
karmarebhyakoha  vo  namo  namo  nuhadebhyah,  'pwnjishthebhya&  cha  vo 
namo  namah  hanibhyo  mrigayabhyascha  vo  namah  \  28.  Namah  svabhyah 
hapatibhyaioha  namo  Bhavdya  Bvdrdya  cha  namah  S'wrvdya  cha  Paiu- 
pataye  eha  namo  ntlagriva/ya  cha  Utikanthdya  eha  \  29.  Namah  kapardine 
cha  vywpta-kekdya  cha  namah  sahasrdkshaya  cha  satadhanvane  cha  namo 
girUaydya  {giriidya,  T.  S.)  cha  iipivishtdya  cha  namo  midhushtamdya 
cha  ishumate  cha  |  30.  Namo  hrasvdya  cha  vdmandya  eha  namo  brihate  eha 
varshiyase  cha  namo  vriddhdya  cha  savridhe  \samvridhvane,  T.  S.)  cha 
namo  ^ gryaya  prathamdya  cha  |  31.  Namah  dsave  cha  ajirdya  cha  namah 
sighrydya  {sighriydya,  T.S.)  cha  sibhydya  cha  namah  urmyaya  cha  avasva- 
nydya  cha  namo  nddeyaya  (srotasydya,  T.  S.)  cha  dvipyaya  cha  \  32.  Namo 
jyeshthdya  cha  kanishthdya  cha  namah purvajdya  eha  apa/rajdya  <iha  namo 
madhyamdya  cha  apagalbhdya  eha  namo  jaghanydya  cha  budhnytiya  eha  | 
33.  Namah  sobhydya  eha  pratisaryaya  cha  namo  yamydya  cha  kshemydya 
cha  namah  slokydya  cha  avasdnydya  cha  nama  urvarydya  cha  khdlyaya 
eha  I  34.  Namo  vanyaya  cha  kakshydya  cha  namah  sravdya  cha pratUravdya 
cha  namah  dsushendya  cha  dkwraihdya  cha  namah  ixirdya  cha  avabhedine 
{avabhindate,  T.  S.)  ehn  \  35.  Namo  bilmine  cha  ka/oaehine  cha  namo 
varmine  ehu  varutMne  eha  namah  krutdya  eha  krutusendya  cha  namo 
dundubhydya  cha  dhananyaya  eha  \  36.  Namo  dhrishnave  cha pramrikdya 
eha^^  namo  nishangine  eha  ishudhimate  cha  namas  tikshneshave  cha  dyudhine 
cha  namuh  svdyudhdya  sudhamiane  eha  \  37.  Namah  srutydya  cha pathydya 
cha  namah  kdtydya  cha  nipydya  cha  namah  kulydya  cha  sarasydya  eha 
namo  nddeydya  {nddydya,  T.  S.)  cha  vaikantdya  eha  \  38.  Namah  kupydya 
cha  avatydya  cha  namo  vidhrydya  cha  dtapydya  namo  meghydya  cha 
62  The  T.  S.  adds. here  namo  dutayfi  cha  praMiaya  cha. 


THE  S'ATARUDRIYA.  325 

vid/yubtyayor  cha  namo  varshyaya  cha  avarshyaya  cha  |  39.  Namo  vatyaya 
cha  reshmyaya  {reshmiyaya,  T.  S.)  oha  namo  vastavydya  eha  vadupaya 
cha  namah  Somdya  eha  Budrdya  cha  namas  tdmrdya  cha  arundya  oha  \ 
40.  Namah  iangave  [iangdya,  T.  S.)  paiupataye  cha  namah  ugrdya  eha 
hhlmdya  cha  namo  agrevaihdya  cha  durevadhdya  cha  namo  ha/ntre  oha 
hantyase  oha  namo  vrihshebhyo  hari-lceiebhyo  namas  tardy  a  |  41.  Namah 
hmbhavdya  {Samhhave,  T.  S.)  cha  mayohhavdya  [mayohhave,  T.  S.)  cha 
namah  kanhardya  eha  mayaskwrdyd  eha  namah  sivdya  cha  kivatwrdya  eha  \ 

42.  Namah  pdrydya  cha  avdrydya  eha  namah  pratarandya  eha  uttarandya 
cha^^  namas  tirthydya  cha  Tculydya  oha  namah  sashpydya  phenydya  oha  \ 

43.  Namah  sikatydya  cha  pra/odhydya  cha  namah himUldya  eha  Icshayandya 
cha  namah  hapardine  eha  pulastaye  eha  namah  irinydya  eha  prapathyaya 
oha  I  44.  Namo  vrajydya  {grihydya,  T.  S.)  eha  goihthydya  eha  namas 
talpydya  cha  gehydya  cha  namo  hridayydya  [hradayydya,  T.  S.)  cha 
niveshydya  eha  namah  ledtydya  cha  gahvareshthdya  cha  \  45.  Namah 
iushhydya  oha  haritydya  cha  namah  pdmsavydya  eha  rajasydya  oha  namo 
lopydya  eha  ulapydya  cha  namah  urvydya  eha  survydya  {sUrmydya,  T.  S.) 
oha  I  46.  Namah  pa/rndya  {pa^nydya,  T.  S.)  cha  parnaiaddya  eha  namah 
udguramdndya  {apagwrumdndya,  T.  S.)  cAfl  alkighnate  eha  nama  dhhidate 
cha  pralchidate  cha  namah  ishukridbhye  dhanushkridHhyak  eha  vo  namo 
namo  vah  kirikelhyo  devdndm  hridayehhyo  namo  vichinvatkebhyo  namo 
vikshinatkebhyo  {vikshmakebhyo,  T.  S.)  namah  dnirhatelhyah^^  \  47. 
Drdpe  wndhasaspaie  da/ridra  {daridran,  T.  S.)  mlalohita  \  dsdm  pra- 
jdndm  eshdm  pa^undm  md  hher  md  ron  mo  cha  nah  kinchandmamat  \ 
48  (=E.V.  i.  114,  1).  49.  Yd  te  Eudra  ^wd  tanuh  Uvd  visvdhd 
Iheshajl  \  iivd  rutasya  Iheshajl  tayd  no  mrida  jlvase  \  50  (=E.V.  ii. 
33,  14┬░').  51.  Midhushtama  iivatama  iwo  nah  sumandh  hhava  |  parame 
vrihshe  dyudham  nidhdya krittim  vasdnah  dehara pindkam  libhrad  dgahi\ 
52.  Vihiridra  {vikirida,  T.S.)  vilohita  namas  te  astu  Ihagavah  |,  yds  te 
sahasram  hetayo  'nyam  asmad  nivapantu  tdh  |  53.  Sahasrdni  sahasraio 
{sahasradhd,  T.  S.)  hdhvos  {hdhwos,  T.  S.)  tava  hetayah  |  tdsdm  i^dno 
Ihagmah  pardoMnd  mukhd  kridhi  \  54.  Asankhydtd  sahasrdni  {sahasrdni 


53  The  T.  S.  here  adds,  namah  afaryaya  cha  alatyaya  cha. 

'^  The  T.  S.  here  adds,  namah  amAvhtkeihyah. 

*'  Instead  of  mahi  gat,  the  concluding  words  of  the  first  half  of  the  verse,  as  it 
stands  in  the  R.V.,  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  has  aghayoh,  "of  the  malicious."  The 
T.  S.  introduces  here  verses  correspo  jding  to  those  in  R.V.  i.  114,  2;  7,  8,  10 ;  ii.  33 
11,  U. 


326  TRANSLATION  OF 

mhasraio,  T.  S.)  y┬Ф  Rudra^  adhi  hhumyam  \  iesham  sahasra-yojane  ava 
dhanvani  tanmasi  \  55.  Asmin  mahaty  arnme  antarikshe  Bhavah  adhi  | 
ieshdm  ityadi  \  56.  NilagrivSh  iitihanthah  dmiwih  Ruckah  upaMtah  \ 
tesham  ityadi]  57,  NilagrivaJi,  iifikanthdh  S'arvSh  aihah  hhamdeharah  \ 
tesham  ityadi  \  58.  Ye  vrihsheshu  imhpinj'wrah  n%lagrvoah  vilohitah  \ 
tesham  ityadi  \  59.  Ye  hhutandm  adhipatayo  visiihasah  kapardinah  \ 
tesham  ityadi  \  60.  Ye  patMm  pathirakshasah  {pathirakshayah,  T.  S.) 
ailabridah  ayii/ryudhah  {yavyudhah,  T.  S.)  |  tesham  ityadi  |  61.  Ye 
tirthdni praeharanti  srikahastah  {srikavanto,  T.  S.)  mshanginah  \  tesham 
ityadi \  62.  Ye tmneshu vividhyanti patreshupihato  janan\  tesham ityadi\ 
63.  Ye  etdvantahha  hhnyamsai  eha  diso  Rudrah  vitasthire^  \  tesham 
ityadi  \  64.  Ifamo  'stu  Rudrebhyo  ye  divi  yesham^  varsham  ishamih  \ 
tebhyo  dasa  prachlr  daia  dakshinah  daia  pratleMr  daka  wdlehir  da&a 
urdhvdh  \  tehhyo  mamo  astv,  te  no  avantu  te  no  mridayantu  te  yam  dvishmo 
yak  eha  no  doeshti  tarn  eshdm  {vo,  T.  &.)jamhhe  dadkmah  {dadhami,  T.  S.)| 
65.  Namo  'stu  Rudrebhyo  ye  antarikshe  y eshdm  vdtah  ishavah  \  tebhyo 
daSa  ityddi  \  66.  Namo  'stu  Rudrebhyo  ye  pritMvyam  yeshdm  annam 
ishavah  |  tebhyo  daia  ityddi  \ 

"  RevereBce,  Rudra,  to  thy  wrath,  and  to  thy  arrow.  Eeverenee  to 
both  thy  arms.  2.  Shine  upon  us,  dweller  in  the  mountains,  with  that 
blessed  body  of  thine  which  is  auspicious,  not  terrible,*'  and  which  does 
not  betoken  harm.  3.  The  arrow,  0  dweller  in  the  mountains,  which 
thou  bearest  in  thy  hand  to  discharge,  make  it,  0  lord  of  the  mountains, 
auspicious ;  do  not  slay  men  and  cattle.  4.  "With  auspicious  words  we 
supplicate  thee,  dweller  in  the  mountains,  that  all  our  men  and  cattle 
may  be  healthy  and  cheerful.  5.  The  deliverer,  the  first  divine 
physician,  hath  interposed  for  us.  Destroying  all  serpents,  strike  down 
and  drive  away  all  Tatadhants  (female  goblins).  6.  "We  deprecate 
from  us  the  wrath  of  that  auspicious  deity  who  is  copper-coloured, 
ruddy,  and  brown,  and  of  those  Rudras  who-  in  thousands  surround 
him  on  aU  sides.  7.  May  he  who  glides  away,  blue-necked  and  red- 
eoloured,  and  whom  cowherdS'  apd  female  drawers  of  water  ^^  have 
seen, Рђћ may  he,  when  seen,  be  gracious  to  us.     8.  Reverence  to  the 

5'  The  T.  S.  inserts  here  the  words  amiam  vato. 

"  Compare  the  passage  quoted  from  the  Mahahharata,  ahove,  p.  204,  near  the  foot. 
58  "Persons  who  are  destitute  of  initiation  .Ti  Vedio  rites"  {Vedokta-samskara- 
hlnah). Рђћ Comm. 


THE  S'ATAEUDEIYA.  327 

blue-neeked,  to  the  thousand-eyed',  to  the  bountiful;  and  to  his 
attendant  spirits  I  offer  reverence.  9.  Loosen  the  string  from  both 
ends  of  thy  bow ;  and  throw  away,  0  divine  being,  the  arrows  which 
are  in  thy  hand.  10.  May  the  bow  of  the  god  with  braided  hair  be 
stringless,  and  his  quiver  contain  pointless  shafts.  His  arrows  have 
perished,  and  his  sword-sheath  is  empty.  11.  That  shaft,  0  most 
bountifal,  that  bow  which  is  in  thy  hand,  with  it,  rendered  innocuous, 
do  thou  protect  us  on  every  side.  12.  May  the  shaft  from  thy  bow 
avoid  us  in  every  direction;  and  deposit  thy  quiver  far  from  us.  13. 
Unbending  thy  bow,  0  thousand-eyed,  and  thousand-quivered,  and 
blunting  the  points  of  thy  arrows,  be  gracious  and  kind  to  us.  14. 
Reverence  to  thy  violent  weapon,  unstrung,  to  both  thy  arras,  and  to 
thy  bow.  (Verses  15  and  16'  correspond  nearly  with  E.  V.  i.  114,  7, 
and  8.  See  above,  p.  304.)  17.  Reverence  to  the  golden-armed  leader 
of  armies,  to  the  lord  of  the  regions,  to  the  green-haired  trees,  to  the 
lord  of  beasts,"  who  is,  yellow  like  young  grass,  to  the  radiant,,  to  the 
lord  of  roads,  the  yeUow-hafred,  the  wearer  of  the  sacrificial  cord,  to 
the  lord  of  the  fuU-fed,  (18)  to  the  brown-colouredi  to  the  piercer, 
to  the  lord  of  food.  Reverence  to  the  weapon  of  Bhava,  to  the  lord  of 
things  moving,  to  Rudra  with  the  bended  bow,  to  the  lord  of  the  fields, 
to  the  innoxious  charioteer,  to  the  lord  of  the  forests,  (19)  to  the  red 
architect,  to  the  lord  of  trees,  to  the  being  who  stretches  out  the  worlds, 
who  affords  deliverance,  to  the  lord  of  plants,  to  the  observant  merchant, 
to  the  lord  of  bushes,  to  the  loud-shouting  lord  of  foot- soldiers  who  causes 
his  foes  to  shriek,  (20)  to  him  who  runs  in  full  stretch,  to  the  lord  of 
spirits,  to  the  conqueror,,  to  the  piercer,  to  the  lord  of  armies  which  wound, 
to  the  towering  wielder  of  a  sword,,  to  the  lord  of  thieves,?"  to  the  robber, 

*'  This,  Veber  ttinka,  must  originally  have  meant  "  the  lord  of  sacrificial  victims." 
*"  On  this  the  Commentator  has  the  following  apologetic  remarks :  Sudro  Ulaya 
choracU-rupam  dhatte  \  yad/Da  Sudrasya  jagad-atmakatmch  choradayo  Sudrah  eva 
dheyah  \  yadva  stenadi-sorire  jwea'vara-rupena  Rudro  dvidha  tishthati  \  tatrajwa- 
rupam  atmadi-sahda-vachyam  |  tad  Isvara-rttdra-rupam  lahshayati  \  yatha  iakha- 
gram  chandrasya  lakshakam  \  kim  hahwia  |  lakshyartha-vivakahaya  mantreslm 
lauUhah  aaidah  prayuktah  \  "  Eudra  in  sport  assumes  the  forms  of  thieves  and 
.such  like  persons.  Or,  since  Eudra  is  the  soul  of  the  world,  thieves,  etc.,  are  to  he 
thought  of  as  being  Endras.  Or,  Rudra  abides  in  two  ways,  as  life  and  as  lord,  in 
the  bodies  of  thieves,  etc.  Then  his  character  as  life  is  denoted  by  the  words  thieves, 
etc. ;  and  that  points  to  his  character  as  Rudra  the  lord,  just  as  the  end  of  a  branch 
points  to  the  moon.  But  why  enlarge  further  f  Common  words  are  employed  in  the 
sacred  texts  to  intimate  the  sense  which  is  pointed  to." 


328  TEANSLATION  OY 

to  the  prowler,  to  the  lord  of  woods,  (21)  to  the  cheater,  to  the  deceiver, 
to  the  lord  of  pilferers,  to  the  bearer  of  the  sword  and  quiver,  to  the 
lord  of  robbers,  to  those  armed  with  thuuderbolts,  to  the  murderous,  to 
the  lord  of  stealers,  to  those  who  carry  swords,  to  those  who  prowl  by 
night,  to  the  lord  of  plunderers;  (22)  to  him  who  wears  a  turban,  who 
frequents  the  mountains,  to  the  lord  of  robbers,  to  you  who  have 
arrows,  and  to  you  who  have  bows,  to  you  with  bended  bows,  and  you 
who  fit  your  arrows  on  the  string,  to  you  who  draw  the  bow,  and  to 
you  who  shoot,  (23)  to  you  who  discharge,  and  to  you  who  pierce, 
to  you  who  sleep  and  you  who  wake,  to  you  who  lie  and  you  who 
sit,  to  you  who  stand  and  you  who  run,  (24)  to  the  assemblies,  and  to 
you  the  lords  of  assemblies,  to  horses,  and  to  you  the  lords  of  horses,  to 
you  the  hosts  which  wound  and  pierce,  and  to  the  goddesses  who  have 
excellent  troops,  and  who  are  destructive,  (25)  to  the  troops,  and  to  you 
the  lords  of  troops,  to  the  companies,  and  to  you  the  lords  of  companies, 
to  the  rogues,  and  to  you  the  lords  of  rogues,  to  you  who  are  ill-formed, 
and  to  you  who  have  all  forms,  (26)  to  armies,  and  to  you  the  leaders 
of  armies,  to  you  who  ride  in  chariots,  and  to  you  without  chariots,  to 
you  the  charioteers,  and  to  you  the  drivers  of  horses,  to  you  the  great,  and 
to  you  the  small,  (27)  to  you  the  carpenters,  and  to  you  the  chariot- 
makers,  to  you  the  potters,  and  to  you  the  blacksmiths,  to  you  the 
Mshadas,  and  to  you  the  Punjisthhas,  to  you  the  leaders  of  dogs,  and* 
to  you  the  huntsmen,  (28)  to  dogs,  and  to  the  masters  of  dogs,  to 
Bhava,*'  and  to  Eudra,  and  to  S'arva,  to  Pasupati,  to  Nilagrlva,  and  to 

^1  Prof.  'Weber  has  the  following  note  on  verse  28  of  Hs  translation  of  the  S'ata- 
rudriya  in  his  Indische  Studien,  ii.  37 :  "  Bhava  is  variously  explained,  sometimes 
as  the  'existent,'  'eternal'  (bhmaty  eva  na  iadaehid  api  na  ihavati),  sometimes  as 
the  producer  of  everything  {bhavaty  asmin  sarvam),  so  that  according  to  the  latter 
explanation  he  is  the  exact  opposite  of  '  S'arva,'  the  destroyer :  and  possibly  the 
term  (Bhava)  has  been  formed  with  the  view  of  propitiating  the  terrible  god  by  a 
favourable  name.  When  both  words  appear  in  verses  66  and  67  as  additional  names 
of  the  Eudras,  they  are  no  doubt  transferred  to  them  from  their  master,  since  the 
name  Bhava  in  particular  will  not  apply  well  to  them.  According  to  the  S'atap.  Br. 
i.  7,  38  (dating  certainly  from  a  period  when  Eudra  had  already  been  identified  with 
Agni),  both  words  (see  also  Ind.  St.  i.  132,  140)  are  appellations  of  Agni, Рђћ Bhava 
being  that  which  was  usual  among  the  Bahikas,  and  S'arva  the  one  prevailing  among 
the  Prdchyas  (and  so  among  the  Ko^ala-videhas,  for  example).  As  we  meet  with 
the  word  S'arva  in  the  well-known  passage  of  the  Vendidad,  Pargard  x.,  p.  342," 
(S'aurva  in  the  Zend,  see  Spiegel's  translation,  p.  176,  and  his  Commentary,  i,,  p.  285, 
and  Justi's  Handhuch  s.v.)  "  we  should  rather  have  expected  that  S'arva  would  have 


THE  S'ATAEUDEITA.  329 

S'itikantha,  (29)  to  him  with,  the  hraided  hair,  and  to  him  with 
the  shaven  hair,  to  him  with  a  thousand  eyes,  to  him  with  a 
hundred  hows,  to  the  dweller  in  the  mountains,  to  S'ipivishta,''' 
to  the  most  bountiful,  to  him  who  has  arrows,  (30)  to  the  short,  and 
to  the  dwarf,  to  the  great,  and  to  him  who  has  arrived  at  a  mature 
age,  to  the  old,  to  the  coetaneous,  to  the  chief,  and  to  the  first,  (31) 
to  the  swift  (or  pervader),  and  to  the  moving,  to  him  who  abides 
in  the  swift,  and  in  the  flowing  waters,  and  to  him  who  dwells  in 
billows,  and  in  tranquil  waters,  and  in  rivers,  and  on  islands,  (32) 
to  the  eldest,  and  to  the  youngest,  to  the  first-born,  and  to  the 
last-born,  to  the  middlemost,  to  him  who  is  not  full-grown,  to  the 
lowest,  to  him  who  exists  at  the  roots  of  trees,  (33)  to  him  who 
lives  in  the  magical  city  Sobha  (?),  to  him  who  exists  in  incantations, 
to  him  who  exists  in  punishment,  and  in  prosperity,  to  the  renowned, 
to  the  endmost,  to  him  who  exists  in  the  soil,  and  in  the  threshing 
floor,  (34)  in  the  woods  and  in  the  bushes,  in  the  form  of  sound,  and 
in  echo,  to  him  who  has  fleet  armies  and  swift  chariots,  to  the  hero, 
and  to  the  splitter,  (35)  to  the  helmeted,  to  him  with  cotton- quilted 
cuirass,  with  iron  mail,  and  with  armour,  to  him  who  is  renowned  and 
has  a  renowned  army,  to  him  who  exists  in  drums,  and  in  resounding 
blows,  (36)  to  the  impetuous,  to  the  assailant,  to  the  bearer  of  a  sword 
and  a  quiver,  who  carries  swift  arrows,  who  wields  weapons,  and  has 
excellent  weapons  and  a  good  bow,  (37)  to  him  who  dwells  in  path- 
ways, and  roads,  and  rough  (or  desert)  places,  and  the  skirts  of  moun- 
tains, and  watercourses,  and  lakes,  and  rivers,  and  ponds,  (38)  and 
in  wells,  and  pits,  and  in  bright  clouds,  and  in  sunshine,  in  clouds, 
in  lightning,  in  rain,  in  fair  weather,  (39)  in  wind,  in  storm,  to  the 
dweller  in  houses,  to  the  protector  of  houses,  to  Soma,  and  to  Eudra, 
to  the  copper-coloured,  to  the  ruddy,  (40)  to  the  bringer  of  prosperity, 
to  Pasupati,  to  the  fierce  [ugra)  and  the  terrible,  to  him  who  kills  in 

been  the  name  current  among  the  Bahlkas.  It  is  difBoult  to  decide  whether  both 
appellations  actually  belonged  at  first  to  Agni,  and  not  to  Eudra.  But,  generally 
speaking,  the  contrary  appears  to  me  to  be  more  credible,  because  in  the  hymns  of 
the  Eig-veda  a  peaceful,  and  not  a  destructive^  character  is  predominatingly  ascribed 
to  Agni.  Further,  both  words  are  brought  dji'ectly  into  connexion  with  the  lightning 
in  A.V.  X.  1.  Bhavaiarvau  aayatam  papifcrite  devahetim."  This  text  is  quoted  a 
few  pages  further  on.  [ 

┬Ф2  K.?.  vii.  99,  7 ;  and  vii.  100,  6,  aboVe,  pp.  86-88,  and  Appendix  on  p.  88. 


/ 


330  THANSLATION  (W 

front,  and  who  kills  from  afar;  to  the  slayer,  to  the  excessive  slayer, 
to  the  green-haired  trees,  to  the  deliverer,  (41)  to  the  source  of  pro- 
sperity, to  the  source  of  happiness,  to  the  causer  of  prosperity  {ianka- 
raya\  to  the  causer  of  happiness,  to  the  auspicious  (iiva)  and  the  very 
auspicious,  (42)  to  him  who  exists  heyond  and  on  this  side,  to  him  who 
crosses  over  to  and,  fro,  to  him  who  exists  in  fords  and  river-hanks, 
in  young  grass,  and  in  foam,  (43)  who^  exists  in  gravel  and  in  streams, 
in  stony  ground,  and  in  habitable"'  places,  to  the  god  with  spirally- 
braided  hair,  to  him  with  smooth  hair,"'  who  exists  in  barren  land,  and 
in  frequented  roads,  (44)  among  herds,  in  cowpens,  in  beds,  in  houses, 
in  the  heart,  in  whirlpools  (or  in  hoar-frost),  and  in  rough  (or  desert) 
placesj  who  abides  in  abysses,  (45)  in  dry  things  and  in  green  things,  in 
dust,  iu  moisture  (or  dust),  in  inaccessible  places,  in  creepers,  in  the  earth 
and  deep  under  the  earth.  46.  Eeverence  to  the  leaf,  and-  to  him  who  is 
in  the  fall  of  the  leaf,  to  the  threatener,  to  the  slayer,  to  the  vexer  and 
the  afflieter,  to  you  who  make  arrows  and  who  make  bows,  to  you  the 
sprinklers,  to  the  hearts  of  the  gods,'^  to  the  discemers,  to  the  destroy- 
ers,, and  to  the  indestructible.  47.  0  thou  who  chasest  away,  who  art 
lord  of  the  soma-juice,  who  art  poor,'*  who  art  blue  and  red,  do  not 
crush,,  do  not  destroy "  these  [our]  offspring,  or  these  cattle,  and  let 
nothing  of  ours  be  sick.  48  (=rE.V.  i.  114,  1).  49.  That  we  may 
live,  be  gracious  to  us  with  that  body  of  thine  which  is  propitious, 
which  is  propitious  and  healing  on  all  days,  which  is  propitious  and 
heals  disease.  50  (=R.V.  ii.  33,  14.  See  above,  p.  309).  51.  Most 
bountiful,  most  gracious,  be  gracious  and  benevolent  to  us.  Placing  thy 
weapon  on  the  remotest  [or,  highest]  tree,  approach,  clad  in  a  skin,*' 

'*  Or,  "  in  a  place  with  still  water."Рђћ Comm.. 

^  This  is  the  rendering  of  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth.  See  Veber'B  Ind.  Stud.,  ii.  41, 
note.  The  Commentator  on  the  Vaj.  S.  gives  the  following  alternative  explanation: 
Pulaataye  agre  tishthati  ptdaatHj, ....  yadvu  pursha  sa/fireshu  aatih  sattS.  yasya 
sa  pulaatih  sarvdntaryanii  \ 

*'  Agni,  Vayu,  and  Aditya  are  meant,  according  to  the  Commentator,  and  the 
S'atap.  Br.  ix.  1,  1,  23. 

"'  Daridra.  The  Commentator  explains  this  as  meaning  "without  any  connexion 
with  others,  from  being  without  a  second"  (fiishparigraho  'dviftyaivSl).  Prof.  Eoth 
(Lexicon)  proposes  to  render  the  word  by  "roving  about,"  and  Prof.  Weber  by 
"splitter." 

"  Ma  iher  ma  roH.  See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  riy,  where  hheh  is  said  to  come 
from  bhid,  not  hhi. 

68  See  V.  S.  3,  61,  above,  p.  322. 


THE  S'ATARTJDEITA.  331 

come,  hplding  thy  bow.  52.  0  deity,  who  avertest  wounds  [or,  shootest 
arrows],  and  art  ruddy  in  hue,  reverence  be  to  thee.  May  thy  thousand 
shafts  smite  some  one  else  than  us.  53.  Thousands  of  thousands  of 
shafts  are  in  thy  hands.  0  god,  do  thou,  the  lord,  avert  their  points 
[from  us].  54.  "We  unbend  a  thousand  leagues  {yojana)  away  the  bows 
of  those  unnumbered  thousands  of  Kudras  who  are  upon  the  earth.  55. 
Above  this  great  atmospheric  ocean  there  exist  Bhavas.  "We  unbend 
their  bows  a  thousand  leagues  away.  56.  Eudras  with  blue  necks  and 
white  throats  occupy  the  sky.  "We  unbend,  etc.  57.  Sarvas  with  blue 
necks  and  white  throats  frequent  [the  regions]  beneath  the  earth.  "We 
unbend,  etc.  58.  Of  those  [deities]  with  a  colour  like  young  grass, 
with  blue  necks  and  ruddy  hue,  who  [live]  ia  trees,  we  unbend,  etc. 
59.  Of  those  lords  of  beings  who  are  without  locks  of  hair,  and  of  those 
whose  hair  is  spu'aUy-braided,  we  unbend,  etc.  60.  Of  those  who  are 
guardians  of  roads,  givers  of  nourishment,  who  fight  for  life,  we  un- 
bend, etc.  61.  Of  those  who  frequent  the  fords,  with  weapons  in  their 
hands,  and  swords,  we  unbend,  etc.  62.  Of  those  who  pierce,  in  the 
midst  of  their  meals,  men  who  are  drinking  in  vessels,  we  unbend,  etc. 
63.  Of  those  Eudras  who,  so  many  [as  we  have  described]  and  yet  more 
numerous,  occupy  the  regions,  we  unbend,  etc.  64.  Eeverence  to  the 
Eudras  who  [live]  in  the  sky,Рёб  of  whom  rain  is  the  arrows.  To  them 
[I  hold  out]  ten  [fingers]  to  the  east,"'  ten  to  the  south,  ten  to  the 
west,  ten  to  the  north,  and  ten  upwards.  To  them  be  reverence :  may 
they  protect  us,  may  they  be  gracious  to  us.  We  consign  to  their 
teeth  the  man  whom  we  hate,  and  who  hates  us.  65.  Eeverence  to 
the  Eudras  who  [live]  in  the  atmosphere,  of  whom  the  wind  is  the 
arrows.  To  them  [I  hold  out]  ten  [fingers],  etc.,  etc.  66.  Eeverence 
to  the  Eudras  who  [live]  upon  the  earth,  of  whom  food  is  the  arrows. 
To  them  [I  hold  out]  ten  [fingers],  etc.,  etc." 

Many  of  the  epithets  in  this  Sktarudriya  are  not  found  in  other 
books  i  and  it  is  difficult,  and  perhaps  of  little  importance,  to  discover 
their  real  sense.  Others,  as  the  reader  will  halve  observed,  are  of  the 
most  fantastic  character. 

69  The  T.  Si  inserts  here,  "  whose  food  is  the  wind." 

'"  FragahhimuTcMh  angulih  kwve  iti  seshah  \', .  .  .  anjalim  baddhva  sana-dihhu 
tiamaskaromi  I  Comm.  / 


332  TEXTS  FROM  THE  ATHAEVAVEDA 

Sect.  III. Рђћ Passages  relating  to  Rvdra,  Bhava,  S'arva,  etc.ffrom 
the  Atharva-veda. 

A.  y.  ii.  27,  6. Рђћ Eudra  jaldsha-bheshaja  nila-iihhanda  harma-hrit  |. 
pra^am  pratipraio  jahi  arasam  krinu  oshadhe  \  "Eudra,  who  hast  heal- 
ing remedies,  who  hast  dark  looks,  who  art  the  performer  of  works, 
destroy  the  food  of  him  who  seeks  to  take  ours ;  make  it  savourless, 
0  plant!" 

A.  V.  iv.  28,  1. Рђћ Bhma-S'anau  manve  vdm  asya  vittam  yayor  vdm 
idam  pradisi  yad  virochate  \  yav  asyeiathe  dvipado  ycm  chatushpadas  tau 
no  munchatam  amhasah  \   2.  yayor  ahhyadhve  uta  yad  dure  chid  yau 

viditav  ishubhritam  asishthau  \  yav |     3.  sahasrahshau  vritrahana 

huve  'ham  duregavyuti  stuvamn  emy  ugrau  \  yav |    4.  yav  dreihate 

hahu  sakam  agre  pro  ched  asrashtam  ahhibhdm  janeshu  \  yav |    5. 

yayor    vadhdd   ndpapadyate   Tcaiohana   antar    deveshuta    mdnusheshu  \ 

yav I     6.  yah  hrityd-krid  mula-hrid  ydtudhdno  ni  tasmin  dhattam 

vajram  ugrau  \   yav |      7.  adhi  no  brutam  pritandsu  ugrau  sam 

vajrena  srijatam  yah  MmidV^  |  staumi  Bhavd-8'arvau  ndthito  joJiMnmi  tau 
no  munchatam  amhasah  \ 

1.  "  0  Bhava  and  S'arva,  I  reverence  you;  have  regard  to  this  (your 
worshipper),  ye  under  whose  control  is  aU.  this  which  shines :  ye  who 
are  lords  of  this  two-footed  and  four-footed  (creation),  free  us  from 
calamity.  2.  Te  to  whom  belongs  all  that  is  near  and  even  sdl  that 
is  remote,  who  are  known  as  the  most  skilful  shooters  among  all 
archers:  ye  who  are  lords,  etc.  (as  in  v.  1).  3.  Te  thousand-eyed 
slayers  of  enemies,  I  invoke  you ;  I  go  on  praising  you,  ye  fierce  gods,, 
whose  domain  extends  far  and  wide :  ye  who  are  lords,  etc.  4.  Te 
who,  united,  performed  many  (exploits)  of  old,  who  manifested  ill 
omens  among  men :  ye  who  are  lords,  etc.  5.  Te  from  whose  destroy- 
ing stroke  no  one  either  among  gods^or  men  escapes:  ye  who  are  lords, 
etc.  6.  Kerce  gods,  launch  your  thunderbolt  against  the  Tatudhana, 
who  practises  sorcery,  and  prepares  roots  (for  that  purpose) :  ye  who 
are  lords,  etc.  7.  Eierce  gods,  take  our  side  in  battles,  smite  with 
the  thunderbolt  him  who  is  a  goblin.  I  praise  you,  Bhava  and  S'arva ; 
distressed  I  again  and  again  invoke  you ;  deliver  us  from  calamity." 

'1  Taska  explains  this  word  thus,  ITirukta,  vi.  11 :  Kim  idSntm  Hi  eharate  him 
idam  him  idam  iti  va  piiuimya  eharate  \ 


EELATING  TO  ETTDRA,  BHAYA,  S'AEVA,  ETC.  838 

A.  V.  V.  21,  11. Рђћ  Yuyam  ugrah  Marutah  Priini-matarah  Indrena 
yiya  pra  mrinita  iatrun  ]  Soma  raja  Varum  raja  mahadevah  uta  mrityur 
Indrah  \  "Do  ye,  fierce  Maruts,  whose  mother  is  Pri^ni,  allied  with 
Indra,  destroy  [our]  enemies.  (May)  king  Soma,  king  Varuna,  and 
Indra,  who  is  a  great  god  and  death,  (do  the  same)."  [This  verse  is 
from  a  martial  hymn  addressed  to  the  Dundubhi  or  drum,  which  in 
verses  4-6  is  besought  to  terrify  the  poet's  enemies,  as  the  sight  of 
a  man  frightens  wild  animals,  a  wolf  goats  and  sheep,  and  a  hawk 
smaller  birds.  4.  Yatha  mrigah  samvijante  aranyah  purushad  adhi  | 
....  6.  Yatlia  vrikad  ajavayo  dhavanti  halm  libhyatth  |  ....  6. 
Yatha  ^yenat  patatrinah  samvijante  ahar  divi.  ...  .J 

A.  Y.  vi.  93,  1. Рђћ Yamo  Mrityttr  ayhamdro  nirritho  labhruh  S'arvo 
'std  nila-Uhhandah  |  deva-janah  senaya  uttasthivamsas  te  asmakam  pari 
vrinjantu  viran  \  2.  Manasd  homcdr  haraaa  ghritena  S'arvaydstre  uta 
rdjne  Bhavdya  |  namasyebhyo  namah  elhyah  krinomy  anyatra  asmad 
ayhavishd  nayantu  |  "May  Yama,  Death,  who  brings  dire  destruction, 
may  the  Destroyer,  may  tawny  S'arva  the  archer  with  dark  locks,  may 
the  hosts  of  the  gods,  arising  with  their  army,  may  these  avoid  our  heroes. 
2.  "With  mind,  with  oblations,  with  fire,  with  butter,  I  offer  reverence 
to  S'arva  the  archer,  and  to  king  Bhava,  to  them  who  deserve  re- 
verence ;  let  them  carry  their  deadly  poisons  to  others  than  us." 

In  A.  Y.  vi.  141,  1,  Kudra  is  mentioned  along  with  Yayu,  Tvashtri, 
and  Indra  {Rudro  Ihumne  cMMtsatu). 

A.  Y.  vii.  87,  1. Рђћ  Yo  Agnau  Budro  yo  apsv  antar  yah  oshadhir  viru- 
dhah  dvivesa  \  yah  imd  mSvd  Ihwandni  chdMripe  tasmai  Budrdya  namo 
astv  Agnaye  \  "Eeverence  be  to  that  Eudra,  Agni,  to  the  Rudra  who 
is  in  Agni,  who  is  in  the  waters,  and  who  has  entered  into  the  plants 
and  bushes,  and  who  has  formed  all  these  creatures." 

A.  V.  viii.  2,  7. Рђћ  ....  Bhavd-iarvau  mridatam  iarma  yaohhatam 

apasidhya  duritam  dhattam  dyuh  \ "  Bhava  and  Sarva,  be 

gracious,  give  protection;  removing  calamity,  give  life."" 

A.  Y.  viii.  5,  10. Рђћ Asmai  manim  varma  ladhnantu  devah  Indro  Vish- 
nuh  Savitd  Budro  Agnih  \  ityddi  \  "May  the  gods,  Indra,  Yishnu, 
Savitri,  Eudra,  Agni,  bind  on  him  the  jewel  as  a  protection,"  etc. 


'2  See  the  translation  of  the  entire  hymn,  in  which  this/half  verse  occurs,  in  the 
fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  446  ff. 


334  HYMN  TO  BHAVA  AKD  S'AEVA  FEOM 

A.  T.  ix.  7,  7.-^MiiraS  eha  Varunai  cha  amsau  Tvaihts,  eha  Aryama 
aha  doahanl  Mahadevo.  idhu  \  "  Mitra  and  Varuga  are  the  shoulders, 
Tvashtri  and  Aryaman  the  fore-arms,  and  Mahadeva  the  two  arms  " 

A.  V.  X.  1,  2S. ~-┬Бhaii>a-^m'vau  asyatdm paporkrUe  Tcritya-krite  Amh- 
Jcfite  mdyutafh  deva-hetim  \  "Let  Bhava  and  S'arva  launch  the  lightning, 
the  bolt  of  the  gods,  against  the  doer  of  -wickednesa,  against  him  who 
employs  sorcery,  against  the  eyil  doer."  (See  Weber's  Ind.  Studien,  ii. 
37,,  note,  quoted  aboTO  in  p.  328  f.) 

A.  V.  xi.  2,  1. Рђћ Bhm)a-S'a/rv<m  mridatam  ma  'hhiydta/m  Ihuta-patl 
paiu-pati  namo  vam  \  pratiMtdm  dyatam  md  vi  srdahtam  md  no  himsi- 
shtam  dvipado  md  ehafushpadaft  |  2.  S'une  kroshtre  md  imrlrdni  Icmidm, 
alikl(M)elhyo  gridhrehhyo  ye  cha  krishndh  aviskyavah  \  maksMMs  te  Pa^u- 
pute  vaydmsi  te  vighase  md  vidanta  \  3.  Kranddya  te  prdndya  yds  cha 
te  Bhava  ropayah  \  namas  te  Eudra  krinmah  sahaardkshdya  amartya  | 
4.  Purastdt  te  namah  krifima^  uttmrdd  adha/rdd  uta  \  ubhwargdd  divas 
pa/ri  anta/rikshdya  te  nwmaf),  \  5.  Mukhdya  te  Pakupate  ydni  ehakshumshi 
te  Bhava  \  tvache  rupdya  samdriie  pratlehmdya  te  namah  \  6.  Angehhyas 
te  udardya  jihvdyai  dsydya  te  \  dadhhyo  ga/ndhdya  te  namah  |  7.  Astra 
ntla-sikhandena  sahasmkshena  mjma  \  Budrendrdhaka-gh&tind  tena  md 
samardmaM  \  8.  Sa  no  Bhmah  pari  vrinaktu  visvatah  dpah''''  ivagnih 
pari  vrinaktu  no  Bhaoah  \  md  no  'hhi  mdihsta  namo  asiv  asmai  \  9.  Chatv/r 
namo  ashfakritvo  Bhavdya  daSa  hritvah  Pasupate  namas  te  \  taveme  pan- 
cha  pakavo  vibhaktdh  gdvo  a&vdh  purushdh  ajdvayah  \  10.  Tava  ohatasrah 
pradikas  tava  dyaus  ta/va  prithin  tavedam  ugrorv  antariksham  \  tavedaih 
sarvam  dtmanvad  yat  prdnat  prithivlm  anu  \  11.  Vrulj,  koio  vasudhdnas 
tavdyam  yasminn  imd  viiva  Ihuvandny  antah  |  sa  no  mrida  Pasvpate 
namas  te  pa/rah  kroahfdro  abhilhdh  ivdnah  paro  yantv  agharudo  vikekyah  \ 
12.  Bhanur  hihharshi  haritam  hi/ramywyafh  sahasra-ghnim  sata-vadham 
iikhandin  \  E/ud/rasyeshui  eharati  deva-hetis  tasyai  namo  yatamasydm 
diSitah  I  13.  To  'Ihiydio  nilaypie  tvdm  Pudra  niehikirshati  \  paichdi 
anu  prayunkahe  torn  viddhasya  pada-nlr  iva  \  14.  Bhavd-rudrau  sayvjd 
samviddndv  uihdv  ugrau  eharato  virydya  \  tdhhydm  namo  yatamasydm 
dikitah  |  15.  Namas  te  asiv  dyate  namo  astu  pardyate  \  namas  te  Rudra 
tishthate  dsmdyota  te  namah  |  16.  Namah  sdyam  namah  prdtar  namo 
rdtryd  namo  diva  \  Bhmaya  cha  S'arvdya  cha  uhhdlhyam  akarafh  namah  \ 

'^  In  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  vol.  v.,  p.  1003,  several  passages  are  quoted 
where  Spah  (with  a  long  5  in  the  first  syllable)  oconrs  as  an  accusatiye  plural. 


THE  ATHAEVAVEDA,  WITH  TRANSLATION.  335 

17.  Sahasraksham  ati^asyam  purastad  Rudram  myantam  hahudha  vipak- 
ehitam  \  ma  uparama  jihvaya  lyamanam  \  18.  S'ydva^vaM  krishnam  asi- 
iam  mrimntam,  hhimam  ratham  keUnah  pddayantam  \  purve  pratimo 
namo  astu  asmai  \  19.  Ma  no  'IM  srah  matyatii  deva-hetim  ma  nah  hru- 
dhah  Paiupate  namas  te  \  anyatra  mmad  ddvyam  Oakham  vi  dhunu  \ 
20.  Ma  no  Mmsir  adhi  no  hruMpari  no  wrindhi  ma  hrudhah  \  ma  iaiayd 
samwramaM  \  21.  Ms,  no  goshu  purusheshu  ma  gridho  no  aj'dvishu  | 
anyatrogra  vi  vartm/a  piyS/rundm  prajdm  jahi  \  22.  Tasya  takmd 
kdsikd  hetir  ekam  aivasyeva  vrishanah  krandah  eti  \  ahhipurvam  nvrnayate 
namo  astv  asmai  \  23.  Yo  antarikshe  tishthati  vishtalhito  aytyvanah 
pramrinan  deva-piyun  \  tasmai  namo  daiahhih  sakvarihhih  \  24.  Tubhyam 
aranyah  paimo  mrigdh  vane  hitdh  hamsdh  sicparndh  sakundh  vaydmsi  \ 
tava  yaksham  Paiupate  apsv  antas  tuhhyam  ksharanti  divydJi  dpo  vridhe  | 
25.  Simiumdrdh  ajagarah  pwnkwydh  jashdh  matsyah  rajasdh  yehhyo 
asyasi  \  na  te  duram  na  pa/riskthd  'sti  te  Bha/oa  sadyah  sarvam  pari 
paiyasi  bhumim  purvasmdd  hamsy  uttwrasmin  samudre  \  26.  Md  no 
Pudra  takmand  md  vishena  md  nah  sa^  srah  divyendgnind  \  anya- 
trdsmad  vidyufam  pdtayaitdm  |  27.  Bhavo  divo  Bhavak  tse  prithvoydh 
Bhavak  a  papre  uru  antariksham  |  tasyai  namo  yafamasydm  diiltah  \ 
28.  Bhava  rdjan  yajamdndya  mri^u  pa^undm  hi  paivpatir  halhu- 
tha  I  yah  kraddadhdti  santi  devdh  iti  ohatushpade  doipade  asya  mrida  I 
29  (  =  R.V.  i.  114,  7).  Md,  no  mahdntam  uta  md  no  arhhakam  md 
no  vahantam  uta  ma  no  vakshyatah  \  md  no  himslh  pitaram  mdtaraih 
cha  svdm  tanvam  Rudra  md  ririsho  nah  \  30.  Budrasyailaba-kdrehhyo 
'samsukta-gilebhyah  \  idam  mahasyeihyah  habhyo  akaram  namah  I 
81.  Namas  ie  ghoshinibhyo  namas  te  keiinibhyah  \  namo  namaskritdbhyo 
namah  sambhunjatibhyah  \  namas  te  deva  sendbhyah  svasti  no  abhayam 
eha  nah  \ 

1.  "Bhava  and  S'arva,  be  gracious  to  us,  be  not  hostile,  lords  of 
spirits,  lords  of  beasts  [see  y.  9] ;  reverence  to  you  twain.  Discharge 
not  a  long  arrow ;  destroy  not  our  bipeds  and  quadrupeds.  2.  Abandon 
not  our  bodies  to  the  dog  or  the  jackal,  to  carrion  birds,  to  vultures, 
to  thy  greedy  black  flies,  lord  of  beasts ;  let  not  thy  birds  get  us  to 
devour.  3.  We  offer  reverence  to  thy  shout,  to  thy  breath,  and  to 
thy  arrows,  Bhava,  and,  0  immortal  Kudra,  to  thee  the  thousand- eyed. 
4.  We  offer  reverence  to  thee  from  before,  and  from  above,  and  from 
below,  and  from  thy  domain  in  the  sky :  reverence  to  thy  firmament. 


336  TRANSLATION  OF  HYMN  TO  BHAVA 

6.  Eeverence  to  thy  face,  Pa^upati,  to  thine  eyes,  Bhava,  to  thy  skin, 
to  thy  form,  to  thine  aspect  from  behind.  6.  Eeverence  to  thy  limbs, 
to  thy  belly,  to  thy  tongue,  to  thy  mouth,  to  thy  teeth,  to  thy  odour 
(nose?).  7.  May  we  never  contend  with  that  archer  whose  locks  are 
dark,  who  has  a  thousand  eyes,  the  warrior,  with  Eudra  the  slayer 
of  Ardhaka.'*  8.  May  he  (Bhava)  everywhere  avoid  us,  may  Bhava 
avoid  us  as  fire  avoids  the  waters.  May  he  not  bear  malice  towards 
us:  reverence  be  to  him.  9.  Eour  times,  eight  times,  be  reverence  to 
Bhava:  ten  times  be  reverence  to  thee,  Pa^upati.  Thine  are  these  five 
distinct  sorts  of  animals Рђћ kine,  horses,  men,  goats,  and  sheep.  10. 
Thine,  Ugra  [or  fierce  god],  are  the  four  regions,  the  sky,  the  earth, 
and  the  wide  atmosphere ;  thine  is  everything  which  has  a  spirit  and 
which  breathes  upon  the  earth.  1 1 .  This  is  a  vast  and  wealthy  store- 
house of  thine,  within  which  all  these  beings  are  contained.  Do  thou 
favour  us,  Pasupati ;  reverence  be  to  thee.  Far  from  us  be  jackals, 
unlucky  omens,  dogs :  may  shrieking  female  demons  with  dishevelled 
.hair  go  far  from  us.  12.  Long-haired  god,  thou  carriest  a  yellow  and 
golden  bow,  [a  weapon]  which  smites  thousands  and  kills  hundreds. 
Eudra's  arrow,  a  celestial  bolt,  flies  abroad:  reverence  be  to  it  in  what- 
ever direction  from  hence  [it  flies].  13.  Thou  pursuest  after  the  ad- 
versary who  lurks  and  seeks  to  overcome  thee,  Eudra,  as  a  man  track- 
ing the  steps '┬░  of  a  wounded  [animal].  14.  Bhava  and  Eudra,  who  are 
always  united  and  concordant,  both  fierce,  ye  advance  to  [deeds  of] 
heroism.  Eeverence  be  to  them  twain  in  whatever  direction  they  are 
from  hence.  15.  Eeverence  to  thee  coming,  and  to  thee  departing; 
reverence  to  thee,  Eudra,  standing,  and  to  thee  sitting.  16.  Eeverence 
in  the  evening,  in  the  morning,  by  night  and  by  day :  I  have  offered 
reverence  to  Bhava,  and  to  S'arva,  both  of  them.  17.  Let  us  not  with 
our  tongue  offend  Eudra,  who  rushes  on,  thousand-eyed,  viewing  all 
the  world,  who  hurls  his  shafts  in  our  presence,  and  who  is  manifoldly 
wise.  18.  We  approach  first  [with  our  worship]  the  god  who  has 
brown  horses,  is  dark,  black,  destroying,  terrible,  who  casts  down  the 
car  of  Keiin  (the  long-haired  being)'*:  reverence  be  to  him.     19.  Do 

'*  Rudra  is  elsewhere  said  to  be  the  slayer  of  Andhaka  or  Antaka.     See  Rama- 
yana,  Aranya  Kanda  30,  27,  which  is  quoted  in  the  Appendix. 
'*  Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  assign  to pada-m  the  sense  of  "guide." 
'8  Bohtlingk  and  Roth  make  kesin  an  epithet  of  Rudra ;  see  s.n. 


AND  S'AEVA  FROM  THE  ATHARVAVEDA.  337 

not  hurl  at  us  thy  club,"  thy  celestial  bolt :  be  not  incensed  at  us, 
Pasupati;  reverence  be  to  thee.  Brandish  thy  celestial  weapon'*  over 
some  other  than  us.  20.  Slay  us  not ;  interpose  for  us ;  avoid  us ;  be 
not  angry  with  us;  let  us  not  contend  with  thee.  21.  Do  not  covet 
our  cattle,  our  men,  our  goats,  and  sheep.  Fierce  god,  betake  thyself 
[or,  turn  thy  chariot]  elsewhere;  slay  the  offspring  of  the  malignant. 
22.  Eeverence  be  to  him  whose  consumption,  whose  cough,  whose  bolt 
assails  some  one  like  the  neighing  of  a  stallion Рђћ to  him  who  carries 
away  [his  victims?]  in  order.  23.  Be  reverence  paid  with  ten  ^akvari 
verses  to  him  who  abides  fixed  in  the  atmosphere,  smiting  the  despisers 
of  the  gods  who  offer  no  sacrifice.  24.  For  thee  the  beasts  of  the  wood, 
deer,  swans,  and  various  well- winged  birds '┬░  are  placed  in  the  forest ; 
thy  living  creatures,  Pasupati,  exist  in  the  waters :  to  delight  thee  the 
celestial  waters  flow.  25.  (There  exist)  porpoises,  great  sei-pents,  purl- 
kayas,  sea-monsters,  fishes,  rajasas,"*  at  which  thou  shootest.  There 
is  to  thee,  Bhava,  nothing  far,  nor  anything  which  stands  [near] 
around  thee.  At  a  glance  thou  lookest  around  the  whole  earth :  from 
the  eastern  thou  slayest  in  the  northern  ocean.  26.  Do  not  assail  us, 
Eudra,  with  consumption,  or  with  poison,  or  with  celestial  fire :  cause 
this  lightning  to  descend  elsewhere  than  upon  us.  27.  Bhava  rules 
the  sky,  Bhava  rules  the  earth,  Bhava  hath  filled '"  the  vast  atmosphere : 
reverence  be  to  him  in  whatever  direction  from  hence  [he  is].  28. 
Bhava,  king,  be  gracious  to  thy  worshipper,  for  thou  art  lord  of  beasts. 
Be  gracious  to  the  quadrupeds  and  bipeds  of  him  who  believes  that 
the  gods  exist."  29  (=R.Y.  i.  114,  7).  Slay  neither  our  great  nor 
our  small,  neither  him  who  is  growing  nor  those  who  are  to  grow,*^ 

"  A.  T.  viii.  8,  11. Рђћ jTrinedhu  enan  matt/am  Bhcmasya  \  "May  the  club  of  Bhava 
crush  them." 

~^  The  word  in  the  original  is  ialeha,  "  b┬╗anoh." 

"  In  the  original,  suparnah  iahunah  vayaihsi. 

"*  B.  and  R.  say  this  word  perhaps  means  "  unclean." 

8┬░  Compare  R.V.  i.  62,  13,  p.  99,  above;    and  the  other  passages  quoted  in  note 
73  on  the  same  page. 

^1  Compare  R.V.  viii.  89,  3,  4,  quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  254. 

f2  Compare  R.V.  1.  114,  7,  and  T.  S.  iv.  S,  10,  2,  p.  303,  above.  In  Professor 
Vilson's  Dictionary  I  find  the  sense  of  "growing"  assigned  to  the  root  vah,  when 
conjugated  in  the  atmane  pada  with  a  nasal,  vamhate.  He  says,  however,  that  in 
this  sense  the  root  is  more  properly  iah,  bamhate.  If  the  verb  be  so  understood 
in  this  passage,  the  meaning  will  be  the  same  as  that  which,  on  the  authority  of 
Messrs.  Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  I  have  adopted  in  the  parallel  text  of  the  Rigveda. 
VOL.  IV.  22 


338   TEXTS  FROM  THE  ATHARV.  EEGAEDING  BHAYA,  S'ARVA,  ETC. 

neither  our  father  nor  our  mother :  injure  not,  Rudra,  ourselves.  30. 
I  have  offered  this  reverence  to  Eudra's  wide-mouthed  howling  dogs 
who  swallow  their  prey  unchewed.  31.  Reverence,  0  deity,  to  thy 
shouting,  long-haired,  reverenced,  devouring  hosts.  May  blessing  and 
security  be  ours." 

A.  V.  xi.  6,  9. Рђћ Bhava-iarvdv  idam  hrumo  Ruclram  PaiupatU  cha 
yah  I  ishur  yah  eshdrh  samvidma  tah  nah  scmtu  sada  iivah  \  "We  say 
this  to  Bhava  and  S'arva,  to  Eudra  and  to  him  who  is  Pasupati :  may 
those  arrows  of  theirs  which  we  know  be  always  propitious  to  us." 

A.  V.  xii.  4,  17. Рђћ Tah  enam  avaiam  aha  devanaifi  nihitam  nidhim  \ 
libhau  tasmai  Bhavd-^arvau  parihramyeshum  asyatah  \  "Both  Bhava 
and  S'arva  advancing,  discharge  an  arrow  against  him  who  declares 
this  [cow],  the  hoarded  treasure  of  the  gods,  to  be  no  cow." 

A,  Y.  xiii.  4,  4. Рђћ So  'ryamd  sa  Varunah  sa  Rudrah  sa  Mahddevah  \ 

26.  Sa  Rudro  vasuvanir  vasudeye  namovdh  vashathdro  'nu  samhitah  | 

27.  Tasyeme  sane  ydtavah  upa  praUsham  dsate  \  28.  Tasydmu  sand 
nahhatrd  vah  chandramasd  saha  \  "4.  He  (Savitri)  is  Aryaman,  he  is 
Varuna,  he  is  Eudra,  he  is  Mahadeva.  26.  He,  Eudra,  the  giver  of 
wealth,  is  placed  as  the  '  vashatkara '  in  the  reverential  invocation,  at 
the  giving  of  wealth.     27.  AH  these  demons  wait  upon  his  command. 

28.  All  these  stars,  with  the  moon,  are  under  his  control." 

The  following  passage,  together  with  the  rest  of  the  fifteenth  book 
of  the  Atharva-veda,  is  quoted  and  translated  by  Prof.  Aufrecht  in 
the  first  vol.  of  Weber's  Indisohe  Studien,  pp.  121-140  : 

A.  Y.  XV.  5,  1. Рђћ Tasmai  prachydh  dUo  antar-desdd  Bhavam  ishvdsam 
anushthdtdram  aJmrvan]  Bhavah  enam  ishvdsah prdohydh  diio  ardar-desdd 
anushthdtd  'nutishthaii  \  nainam  S'arvo  na  Bhwo  na  Isdno  na  asya  pa^un 
na  samdndn  hinasti  yah  evam  veda  \  2.  Tasmai  dakshindydh  diso  antarde&dch 
ohhanam  ishvdsam  ityddi  \  3.  Tasmai pratichyah  diso  antar-desdt  Paiu- 
patim  ityddi  \  4.  Tasmai  udlchydh  diio  antar-deidd  ugram  devam  ityddi  \ 
5.  Tasmai  dhruvdydh  diio  antar-deidd  Rudram  ityddi  \  6.  Tasmai  ur- 
dhodydh  diio  antar-deidd  Mahddevam  ityddi  \  7.  Tasmai  sanebhyo 
anfar-deiebhydh  lidndm  ityddi  \  "  [The  gods]  made  Bhava  the  archer 
[to  be]  to  hitn  (the  Yratya)  a  deliverer  from  the  intermediate  space  of 
the  eastern  region.  Bhava  the  archer,  a  deliverer,  delivers  him  from 
the  interval  of  the  eastern  region.  Neither  S'arva  nor  Bhava,  nor 
i^ana  slays  either  him  who  knows  this,  or  his  cattle,  or  his  kindred. 


PASSAGES  FEOM  THE  S'ATAP.  BE.  EEGARDIN.G  AGNI-RTJDEA.   339 

2.  [The  gods]  made  Siirva  tbe  archer  [to  be]  his  deliverer  from  the 
intermediate  space  of  the  southerni  region,  etc.  3.  [The  gods],  made 
Pasupati  the  archer  [to  be]-  his  deliverer  from  the  intermediate  space 
of  the  western  region,  etc.  4.  [The  gods]  made  the  god  Ugra,  etc. 
(as  above),  of  the  northern  region,  etc.  5.  [The  gods]  made  Kudra, 
etc,  (as  above),  of  the  lower  region,  etc.  6.  [The  gods]  made  Maha- 
deva,  etc.  (as  above),  of  the  upper  region,  etc.  7.  [The  gods]  made 
Isaua  the  archer  [to  be]  his-  deliverer  from  aU.  the  intermediate 
regions,"  etc.. 

Sect.  IT. Рђћ Passages  relating  to  Eudra  from  the  S'atapatha  and' 
S  anhMyana  Brdhmanas. 

In  the  following  text  (which  has  been  already  quoted  in.  the  second 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  202)  Eudra  is  identified  with  Agnit 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  i.  7,  3,  8. Рђћ Agnir  vai  sa  devah  tasya  etani  na- 
mani  S'arvah  iti  yatha  prachyah  aohakshate  Bhcwah  iti  yatha  Bahihah 
Paiunam  patih  Rudro  ^gnir  iti  [.  tany  asya  akantany  em  itarani  namani  \ 
Agnir  ity  eva  iantatamam  \  "  Agni  is  a  god.  These  are  his  names : 
S'arva,  as  the  eastern  people  call  him,*'  Bhava,  as  the  Bahikas,  Pasd- 
nampati  (lord  of  beasts),  Rudra,  and  Agni.  These  other  names  of  his 
(i.e.  all  the  foregoing  except  Agni)  are  ungentle.  Agni  is  his  gentlest 
appellation."'* 

The  following  passage  describes  the  birth  of  Kudra,  and  at  the  same 
time  identifies  him  with  Agni : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  6,  1,  3,  7  ff. Рђћ Ahhud  vai  iyam  pratishtha  iti  \ 
tad  hhumir  dbhavat  \  tani  aprathayat  sa  prithivy  ahhavat  \  tasydm  asydm 
pratishthdydm  bhutdni  bhutdndnoha  patih  samvatsardya  adlhshanta  \  hhu- 
tdndm  patir  griha-patir  dsid  Ushdh  patni  \  8.  Tad  ydni  tdni  bhutdni 
ritavas  te  \  atha  yah  sa  bhutdndm  patih  samvatsarah  sah  \  atha  yd  sd 
Ushdh  patny  aushmi  sd  \  tani  imdni  bhutdni  eha  bhutdndnoha  patih 
safhvatsarah  Ushasi  reto  'sinchan  \  sa  samvafsare  humdro  'jdyata  \  so 
'rodit  I  9.  Tom  Prajapatvr  abravit  "humdra  him  rodi'shi  yaoh  ehhramdt 

"'  On  this  the  commentator  remarks  (pi  124  of  "Weber's  edition) :  Praehyadi- 
desa-bhedena  S'arvaii-nama-ihede  'pi  devata  eJea  eva  |  "Though,  owing  to  the 
difference  of  countries,  there  is  a  difference  of  names,  as  S'arva,  etc.,  still  the  god  is 
but  one." 

** .  See  the  note  translated  from  Weber's  Indische  Studien  above  in  p.  328. 


340  BIETH  AND  NAMES  OF  AGNI-EUDEA 

tapaso  ^dhi  jato  'si"  iti  \  so  'bravid  "  anapahata-papma  vai  asmy  ahita- 
nama  ndma  me  dhehi"  iti  |  tasmat  putrasya  jatasya  nama  kuryat  papma- 
mam  eva  asya  tad  apahanty  api  dvitlyam  a/pi  tritiyam  ahhipurvam  eva  asya 
tat  pdpmanam  apahanti  |  10.  Tam  abravld  Rudro  'si  iti  \  tad  yad  asya 
tan  nama  aka/rod  Agnis  tad-rupam  dbha/vat  \  Agnir  vai  Rudral/,  \  yad  arodlt 
tasmdd  Rudrah  \  so  'Iravlj  "jydyan  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  I  11.  Tam  abravU  "  Sarvo  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  nama  aka/rod 
apas  tad-rupam  ahhavan]  apo  vai  Swrvah]  adbhyo hi idaih  sarvamjdyate] 
so  'Iravij  "jydyan  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma"  iti  \  12.  Tam  ahravU 
Pakupatir  asi  iti  |  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarod  oshadhayas  tad-rupam 
abhavan  \  oshadhayo  vai  Paiupatis  tasmdd  yadd  paia/vah  oshadhlr  labhante 
'tha  patlyanti  \  so  'Iravlj  "jydyan  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  I  13,  Tam  alravld  Ugro  'si  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarod  Vdyus 
tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Vdyur  vai  JJgras  tasmdd  yadd  bala/oad  vdty  "  Ugro 
vdti"  ity  dhuh  \  so  'bravij  "jydydn  vai  asato'  smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma"  iti\ 
14.  Tam  abra/vld  "Ahnir  asi"  iti  |  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarot  vidyut 
tad-rupam  abhavat  \  vidyud  vai  A^anis  tasmdd  yam  vidyud  hanty  "Aianir 
abadhld"  Uy  dhuh  |  so  'bravij  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  I  15.  Tam  abravid  "Bhavo  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarot  Par- 
janyas  tad-rupam  abhavat  |  Parjanyo  vai  Bhavah  \  Pa/rjanydd  hi  idarh  sar- 
vam  bhavati  |  so  'bravid  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma"  iti  \ 
16.  Tam  abravld  "  Mahdn  devo  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akmroch 
ohandramds  tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Prajdpatir  vai  ohandramdh  Prajdpatir 
vai  mahdn  devah  \  so  'bravij  "jydydn  vai  asato  'smi  dhehy  eva  me  ndma" 
iti  \  17.  Tam  abravld  "  Isdno  'si"  iti  \  tad  yad  asya  tan  ndma  akarod 
Adityas  tad-rupam  abhavat  \  Adityo  vai  Mdnah  Adityo  hy  asya  sarvasya 
Ishte  I  so  'bra/old  "  etdvdn  vai  asmi  md  md  itah  paro  ndma  dhdh"  iti  | 
18.  Tdny  etdny  ashtdv  Agni-rupdni  Kumdro  navamah  \  sd  eva  Agnes  tri- 
vrittd  I  19.  Yad  vai  iva  ashtdv  Agni-rupdny  ashtdkshard  gdyatrl  tasmdd 
dhur  "  gdyatro  'gnir"  iti  \  so  'yam  kumdro  rupdny  anuprdvi^at  \  na  vai 
Agnim  humdram  iva  paiyanty  etdny  eva  asya  rupdni  pa&yanty  etdni  hi 
rupdni  prdvisat  \ 

"  This  foundation  existed.  It  became  the  earth  (bhumi).  He  ex- 
tended it  {aprathayat).  It  became  the  broad  one  {prithivl).  On  this 
foundation  beings,  and  the  lord  of  beings,  consecrated  themselves  for 
the  year  (samvatsara).  The  lord  of  beings  was  a  bouseholder,  and 
TJshas  was  bis  wife.     8.  Now  these  '  beings  *  were  the  seasons.     That 


ACCOEDING  TO  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BEAHMANA.  341 

'  lord  of  beings '  was  the  Year.  That  wife  Ushas  was  Aushasi  (the 
daughter  of  the  dawn).'"  Then  both  those  beings,  and  that  lord  of 
beings,  the  Tear,  impregnated  Ushas,  and  a  boy  {Kumard) "  was  born 
in  a  year.  The  boy  wept.  9.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Boy,  why  dost 
thou  weep,  since  thou  hast  been  bom  after  toil  and  austerity?'  The 
boy  said,  '  My  evil  indeed  has  not  been  taken  away,  and  a  name  has 
not  been  given  to  me.  Give  me  a  name.'  Wherefore  when  a  son  has 
been  bom  [to  any  man]',  let  a  name  be  given  to  him  ;  that  takes  away 
his  evil ;  and  [let]  also  a  second  and  a  third  [name  be  given]  in  suc- 
cession: that  takes  away  his  evil.  10.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Thou 
art  Eudra.'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  Agni  became  his 
form,  for  Eudra  is  Agni.  He  was  Eudra  because  he  wept  {wroiit 
from  rud,  'to  weep')."  The  boy  said,  'I  am  greater  than  one  who 
does  not  exist:  give  me  a  name.'  11.  Prajapati  replied,  'Thou  art 
Sarva."*  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  the  waters  became 
his  form,  for  Sarva  (All)  is  the  waters,  because  all  this  is  produced 
from  the  waters  (see  above,  p.  24  f.).  The  boy  said,  '  I  am  greater 
than  one  who  does  not  exist :  give  me  a  name.'  12.  Prajapati  replied, 
'  Thou  art  Pasupati.'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  the 
Plants  became  his  form,  for  Pasupati  is  the  Plants.  Hence,  when 
beasts  obtain  plants,  they  become  lords  (or  strong).     The  boy  said, 

^  I  am  unaUe  to  explain  how  Uslias,  the  daira,  is  identified  with  her  own  off- 
spring, Aushasi;  or  how  the  'lord  of  heing8'=the  Tear,  consecrated  himself  for 
the  year. 

88  The  name  Kumara,  "Weber  remarks  (Indische  Studien,  ii.  302,  395),  is  applied 
to  Agni  in  Rig-veda,  v.  2,  1. 

"  See  the  end  of  note  9,  p.  303,  above.  A  story  like  the  one  there  given  will  be 
found  in  Taitt.  Sanh.  i.  5,  1,  1 : Рђћ Dmaswali  aamyattah  asan  \  te  devah  mjayam  upa- 
ycmto  'gnau  vamam  vasu  scmwyadadhata  "  idam  u  no  bhcwishyati  yadi  no  jeshyanti " 
Hi  I  tad  Agnir  nyakamayata  \  tena  wpakramat  \  tad  devah  vijitya  avarurutsamanah 
anvayan  ]  tad  asya  sahasa  addtsanta  \  so  'rodit  ]  yad  arodit  tad  Budrasya  Rudratvam  \ 
"  The  gods  and  Asuras  engaged  in  battle.  The  gods,  conquering,  deposited  valuable 
property  with  Agni,  saying,  '  If  they  should  ever  conquer  us,  we  shall  have  this.' 
Agni  desired  the  property ;  and  went  off  with  it.  The  gods,  after  being  victorious, 
went  after  him  to  recover  their  goods,  which  they  sought  to  take  from  him  by  force. 
He  wept.    From  his  weeping  Eudra  gets  his  character  of  Eudra." 

*8  The  origin  of  this  name  may  perhaps  he  found  in  Eig-reda,  x.  61,  19,  wheve 
these  words  occur:  lyam  me  nabhir  iha,  me  sadhastham  ime  me  devah  ayam  asmi 
Sarvah  |  dvijah  aha  prathama-jah  ritasya  idam  dhenur  aduhaj  jayamana  \  "  This  is 
my  centre,  here  is  my  abode,  these  are  my  gods,  this  is  I,  Sarva  (All).  The  twice- 
born  men  are  the  firstborn  of  the  sacred  rite.  This  the  cow  milked  out,  when  she 
was  being  horn." 


342  BIFFEEENT  NAMES  OiF  A'GNI. 

'I  am  greater  than  one  Tvlio  does  not  exist:  give  me  a  name.  13. 
Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Thou  art  Ugra.'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that 
name,  Yayu  (the  Wind)  became  his  form.  For  Ugra  (or  the  Tierce') 
is  Vayu.  Wherefore  when  it  blows  strongly,  men  say,  '  Ugra  blows.' 
The  boy  said,  '  I  am  greater  than  one  who  does  not  exist :  give  me  a 
name.'  14.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  '  Thou  art  A^ani.'  Inasmuch  as  he 
gave  him  that  name,  Vidyut  (Lightning)  became  his  form.  For  Asani 
is  Lightning.  Hence  they  say  that  A^ani  has  struck  a  man  whom 
lightning  strikes.  The  boy  said,  'I  am  greater  than  one  who  does  not 
exist:  give  me  a  name.'  15.  Prajapati  said  to  him,  'Thou  art  Bhava.' 
Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him  that  name,  Paijanya  (the  god  of  rain)  be- 
came his  form.  For  Bhava  (Being)  is  Parjanya ;  because  all  this 
[universe]  springs  {Ihmati)  from  Parjanya.  The  boy  said,  'I  am 
greater  than  one  who  does  not  exist :  give  me  a  name.'  16.  Prajapati 
replied,  'Thou  art  Mahandevah  (the  'Great  god').'  Inasmuch  as  he 
gave  him  that  name,  Chandramas  (the  Moon)  became  his  form.  For  the 
Moon  is  Prajapati:  the  'Great  god'  is  Prajapati.  The  hoy  said,  'I  am 
greater  than  one  who  does  not  exist:  give  me  a  name.'  17.  Praja- 
pati replied,  'Thou  art  Isana  (the  ruler).'  Inasmuch  as  he  gave  him 
that  name,  Aditya  (the  Sun)  became  his  form.  For  Isana  is  the  Sun, 
because  he  rules  (ishte)  over  this  universe.  The  boy  said,  '  I  am  so 
much:  do  not  give  me  any  further  name.'  18.  These  are  the  eight 
forms  of  Agni.  Kumara  (the  boy,  see  above,  para.  8  in  the  preceding 
page)  is  the  ninth.  This  is  the  threefoldness  (trivrittr2)  of  Agni. 
19.  Since  there  are,  as  it  were,  eight  forms  of  Agni,  [and]  the  gayatri 
metre  has  eight  syllables,  men  say,  'Agni  pertains  to  the  gayatri.'*' 
This  boy  (Eumara)  entered  into  the  forms.  Men  do  not  see  Agni  as 
a  boy ;  it  is  these  forms  of  his  that  they  see ;  for  he  entered  into  these 
forms." 

This  passage  appears  to  be  the  original  from  which  the  story  of  the 
birth  of  Rudra  in  the  Puranas  is  borrowed.  That  legend,  as  given  in 
the  Markandeya  Puraija  (in  nearly  the  same  words  as  in  the  Vishnu 
Purana),  is  as  follows : 

^^  The  same  words  occur  in  the  Taitt.  S.  ii.  2,  5,  6 ;  and  the  Tailt.  Br.  i.  1,  5,  3. 
The  Commentator  on  the  latter  passageways :  Agner-  mukha-jatvma  gayatrt-samhandhi- 
tvam  I  "  Agni's  connexion  mth  the  Gayatri  arises  fiiom  his  having  sprung  from  the 
mouth." 


TEXTS  FROM  THE  MARK.  PUE.  AND  S'ASTKH.  BR.  343 

Mark.  Pur.  Sect.  52,  2  ff. Рђћ Kalpadav  atmmas  tulyaih  sitiam  pra- 
Myayatah  prablioh  \  3.  Pradwr-aslS,  atharike  'sya  Icumaro  nlla-lohitah\ 
ruroda  msvaram  so  Hha  drmams  cha  dvija-sattama  \  kirn  rodisMti  tam 
Brahma  rudantam  pratyuvacha  ha  \  nama  dehlti  tarn  so  Hha  pratywoacha 
jagat-patim  \  Rudras  tvam  deva  ndmna  'si  md  rodir  dhairyam  dvaha  | 
evam  uktas  tatah  so  Hha  sapta-hritvo  ruroda  ha  \  tato  'nyani  dadau  tas- 
mai  sapta  ndmdni  vai  pralhuh  \  sthandni  chaishdm  ashtdndm  patnih 
putrdtns  cha  vai  dvija  \  Bhavam  Saream  tatheidnam  tathd  Pahipatim 
prabhuh  \  Bhimam  TTgram,  Mahddevam  uvdeha  sa  Pitdmahah  \ 

""When,  at  tte  beginning  of  the  kalpa,  the  lord  {i.e.  Brahma)  was 
meditating  on  a  son  similar  to  himself,  there  was  manifested  in  his  lap 
a  boy  of  a  blue  and  red  colour,  (3)  who  then  wept  loudly,  running 
about.  Brahma  said  to  him  when-  he  was  weeping,  '  Why  dost  thou 
weep?'  He  answered  the  lord  of  the  world,  'Give  me  a  name.' 
[Brahma  rejoined],  'Thou,  0  deity,  art  called  Eudra;  do  not  weep;  be 
patient.'  Being  thus  addressed,  [the  boy]  wept  again  seven  times. 
Then  the  lord  gave  him  seven  other  names,  and  the  places  of  these 
eight,  and  wives  and  sons.  The  Progenitor  (Brahma)  called  him 
[besides  Eudra]  Bhava,  Sarva,  I^ana,  Pasupati,  Bhima,  TJgra,  Maha- 
deva." 

These  names  (except  Bhlma,  which  is  substituted  for  Asani)  are  the 
same  as  those  in  the  Brahmana.  The  same  legend  is  given  in  a  some- 
what different  form  in  the  S'ankhayana  or  Eaushitaki  Brahmana,  and 
an  abstract  of  that  passage  is  furnished  by  Prof.  Weber  in  his  Indische 
Studien,  ii.  300  ff.  For  the  text  of  the  passage  I  am  indebted  to  Prof. 
Aufrecht,  who  copied  it  from  the  MS.  of  the  S'ankhayana  in  the  Bodleian 
Library  at  Oxford. 

S'ankhayana  Brahmana,  vi.  i.  etc. Рђћ Prajdpatih  prajdti-hdmas  tapo 
'tapyata\  tasmat  taptdt pancha  ajdyanta  Agnir  Tdyur  AdAiyyai  Chandra- 
mdh  TJshdh  panohami  \  tdn  abravid  " yUyam  api  tapyadhvam"  \  te 
'dikshanfa  \  tdn  dlkshiidms  tepdndn  Vshdh  prdjdpatyd  'psaro-rupam 
Icritva  purastdt  pratyudait  \  tasydm  eshdm  manah  samapaiat  \  te  reto 
'sinchania  \  Te  prajdpatim  pitaram  etya  abruvan  "  reto  vai  asiohdmakai 
idam  no  md  amuyd  bhud"  iti  \  sa pra)dpatir  hiranmayam  chamasam  dkarod 
ishu-mdtram  urdhvam  evam  tiryancham  I  tasmin  retah  samasinchat  \ 
tatah  udatishthat  sahasrdkshah  sahasrapdt  sahasrena  pratihitdbhih  \  2. 
.Sa  prajdpatim  pitaram  abhydyaehhat  \  tam  abravit  "kathd  md  'hhya- 


344  BIRTH  OF  THE  GOD  "WITH  EIGHT  NAMES 

yacKhmi"  iti  \  "ndma  me  hv/rv"  ity  ahravtn  "na  vai  idam  amJdtena 
namnd  annam  atsyami"  Hi  \  " sa  vai  tvam"  ity  ahramd  " ┬Бhavah  eva" 
iti  yad  Bhavah  apas  \  tena  na  ha  vai  evam  Bhavo  hinasti  na  asya 
praj'dm  na  asya  paSun  na  asya  hrwvdnam  ehana  \  atha  yah  enam  dveshti 
sa  eva  pdplydn  hhaoati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \  tasya  vratam  a  im  eva 
vdsah  paridadhlta  iti  \  3.  Ta'ni  dvitiyam  ahhydyacKhat  tarn  dbravit  \ 
"  hatha  md  dbhydyaehhasi"  iti  |  "dvitiyam  me  ndma  kun  "  ity  abravin 
"na  vai  idam  ehena  ndmnd  annam  atsyami"  iti  \  "sa  vai  tvam"  iti 
ahravieh  "  Chharvah  eva"  iti  yaeh  Chharvo  'gnih  \  tena  na  ha  vai  enam 
Sarvo  hinasti  na  asya  pra^drh  na  asya  paiim  na  asya  Iruvdnam  ehana  \ 
atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  pdplyan  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  | 
tasya  vratam  sarvam  eva  na  ainiydd  iti  \  4.  Taffi,  tritlyam  abhydyaehhat  \ 
tarn  airavU  "Icatha  md  abhydyaehhasi"  iti  \  "tritlyam  me  ndma  Icurv" 
ity  abra/oin  "  na  vai  idam  dvdbhydfh  ndmdblvydm  annam  atsydmi"  iti  \ 
"sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravit  "Pahtpatir  eva"  itiyat  Pasupatir  Vayuh  \  tena 
na  ha  vai  enam  Paiupatir  hinasti  na  asya  prajdih  na  asya  pakun  na  asya 
bruvdnaih  ehana  \  atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa 
yah  evam  veda  \  tasya  vratam  brdhmanam  eva  na  parivaded  iti  |  5.  Tarn 
^haturtham  abhydyaehhat  \  tarn  abravit  "hathd  md  'bhydyaehhasi"  iti  | 
" chatitrtham  me  ndma  Icurv "  ity  abravit  \  "na  vai  idam  tribhir  ndma- 
hhir  annam  atsydmi"  iti  \  "  sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravid  "  Vgrah  eva  devah" 
iti  yad  TJgro  devah  oshadhayo  vanaspatayah  \  tena  na  ha  vai  enam  TJgro 
devo  hinasti  na  asya  prajdm  na  asya  pa&un  na  asya  bruvdnam  ehana  \ 
atha  yah  enam,  dveshti  sa  eva  pdpiydn  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \ 
tasya  vratam  striydh  eva  viva/ram  na  iksheta  iti  \  6.  Tarn  panchamam 
abhydyaehhat  \  tam  abravit  "hatha  md  'bhydyaehhasi"  iti  \  panchamam 
me  ndma  Icurv"  ity  abravit  \  "na  vai  idam  ehaturbhir  ndmabhir  annam 
atsydmi"  iti  \  " sa  vai  tvam"  ity  dbravin  " Mahdn  eva  devah"  iti  \  yan 
Mahdn  devah  Adityah  \  Tena  na  ha  vai  enam  Mahdn  devo  hinasti  na 
asya  prajdm  na  asya  paiun  na  asya  bruvdnam  ehana  |  atha  yah  enam 
dveshti  sa  eva  pdplydn  bhavati  |  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \  tasya  vratam 
udyantam  eva  enam  na  iksheta  astam  yantam  cha  iti  I  7.  Tam  sha- 
shtham  abhydyaehhat  tam  abravit  "hathd  md  abhydyaehhasi"  iti  \ 
" shashtham  me  ndma  hurv"  ity  abravit  \  "  na  vai  idam  panchahhir 
ndmabhir  annam  atsydmi"  iti  |  "sa  vai  tvam"  ity  abravid  "Pudrah  eva" 
iti  yad  Rudrak  Chandramdh  \  Tena  na  ha  vai  enaffi  Rudro  hinasti  na 
asya  prajdm  na  asya  paiiln  na  asya  brmdnam  ehana  \  atha  yah  enam 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  S'ANKHATANA  BEAHMANA.  345 

dveshtd  sa  eva  papiyan  hhavati  \  na  sa  yal}  evafh  veda  \  tasya  wataih 
vimuriam  eva  nakntyan  majjanam  eha  iti  \  8.  Tarn  saptamam  dbhya- 
yachhat  \  tarn  abravU  "hatha  ma  'bhyayachhasi"  iti  \  "sapiamam  me 
nama  hurv "  ity  ahravlt  \  "  na  vai  idam  shadhhir  ndmabhir  annam 
atsyami"  iti  \  " sa  vai  tvam"  ity  ahravid  "  Jsanak  eva"  iti  yad  liano 
'nnam  |  tena  na  ha  vai  enam  liano  hinasti  na  asya  prcy'd0t  na  asya  pasun 
na  asya  hruvdnafh  chana  \  atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  papiyan  bhavati  | 
na  sa  yah  evafh  veda  \  tasya  vratam  annam  eva  iehhamanam,  na  prat- 
yaehakshita  iti  \  9.  Tam  ashtamam  abhydyachhat  \  tarn  abravit  "hatha 
ma  'bhyayachhasi"  iti  \  "ashtamam  me  nama  kurv"  ity  abranin  "na 
vai  idam  saptdhhir  ndmabhir  annam  atsyami"  iti  \  " sa  vai  tvam"  ity 
dbravld  "Asanir  eva"  iti  yad  Asanir  Tndrah  [  tena  na  lia  vai  enam 
Asanir  hinasti  na  asya  pr(ydfh  na  asya  paSvn  na  asya  bruvdnam  ehana  \ 
atha  yah  enam  dveshti  sa  eva  papiyan  bhavati  \  na  sa  yah  evam  veda  \ 
tasya  vratam  satyam  eva  vaded  Mranyam  eha  bilhriyad  iti  \  sa  esho 
'shtandmd  'shtadhd  vihito  Mahdn  devah  \  a  ha  vai  asya  ashtamdt  purushdt 
prajd  'nnam  atti  vasiydn  vasiydn  ha  eva  asya  prajdydm  djdyate  yah 
evam  veda  \ 

"  Prajapati,  being  desirous  of  progeny,  performed  austerity,  rrom 
him  -when  he  had  [thus]  performed  austerity  five  [children]  were  bom, 
Agni,  Yayu,  Aditya,  Chandramas  (Moon),  and  TJahas  (dawn)  the  fifth. 
He  said  to  them,  '  Do  you  also  perform  austerity.'  They  consecrated 
themselves.  Before  them,  when  they  had  consecrated  themselves,  and 
had  performed  austerity,  Ushae,  the  daughter  of  Prajapati,  assuming 
the  form  of  an  Apsaras  (a  celestial  nymph)  rose  up.  Their  attention 
was  riveted  upon  her,  and  they  discharged  seed.  They  then  came 
to  Prajapati  their  father,  and  said  to  him,  'We  have  discharged 
seed ;  let  it  not  lie  there  in  vain.'  Prajapati  made  a  golden  platter, 
of  the  depth  of  an  arrow,  and  of  equal  breadth.  In  this  he  collected 
the  seed,  and  from  it  there  arose  a  being  with  a  thousand  eyes,  a  thou- 
sand feet,  and  a  thousand  arrows  on  the  string.  2.  He  came  to  his 
father  Prajapati,  who  asked  him,  '  Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  He 
answered,  '  Give  me  a  name.  I  shall  not  eat  this  food,  so  long  as  no 
name  has  been  given  to  me.'  '  Thou  art  Bhava,'  said  Prajapati ;  for 
Bhava  is  the  Waters.  Therefore  Bhava  does  not  slay  this  man,  nor  his 
offspring,  nor  his  cattle,  nor  any  [creature  of  his]  who  speaks.  And 
further,  whoever  hates  him  is  most  wicked.     Such  is  not  the  case  with 


346  THE  GOD  VITH  EIGHT  NAMES. 

him  who  knows  this.  His  rule  is,  let  a  man  wear  a  garment.  3.  He 
(this  newly-produced  being)  came  a  second  time  to  Prajapati,  who 
asked  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me,'  he  replied, 
'a  second  name:  I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  one  name.'  'Thou 
art  S'arva,'  Prajapati  answered;  for  S'arva  is  Agni.  "Wherefore  S'arva 
does  not  slay  him,  nor  his  offspring,  nor  his  cattle,  nor  any  [creature 
of  his]  who  speaks.  Further,  whoever  hates  him  is  most  wicked. 
Such  is  not  the  case  with  him  who  knows  this.  His  rule  is,  let  not 
a  man  eat  every  sort  of  food.  4.  He  came  the  third  time  to  Praja- 
pati, who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me  a 
third  name,'  he  replied;  'I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  two 
names.'  '  Thou  art  Pa^upati,'  Prajapati  answered;  for  Pasupati  is  Vayu 
(the  Wind).  Wherefore  Pasupati  does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His 
rule  is,  let  no  one  slander  a  Brahman.  5.  He  came  the  fourth  time 
to  Prajapati,  who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give 
me  a  fourth  name,'  he  replied;  'I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only 
three  names.'  '  Thou  art  TJgradeva  (the  fierce  god),'  Prajapati 
answered;  for  TJgradeva  is  plants  and  trees.  Wherefore  Ugradeva 
does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  not  a  man  look  upon  the 
shame  of  a  woman.  6.  He  came  the  fifth  time  to  Prajapati,  who  said 
to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  '  Give  me  a  fifth  name,'  he 
replied ;  '  I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  four  names.'  ,  '  Thou  art 
Mahandeva  (the  great  god),'  Prajapati  answered;  for  Mahandeva  is 
Aditya  (the  Sun).  Wherefore  Mahandeva  does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc. 
His  rule  is,  let  no  man  look  upon  him  (the  Sun)  rising  or  setting.  7. 
He  came  the  sixth  time  to  Prajapati,  who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost 
thou  come  to  me  ?'  '  Give  me  a  sixth  name,'  he  replied ;  '  1  shall  not 
eat  this  food  with  only  five  names.'  '  Thou  art  Eudra,'  Prajapati 
answered;  for  Eudra  is  Chandramas  (the  Moon).  Therefore  Eudra  does 
not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  no  man  eat  anything  coagulated 
[or  solid],'"  or  any  marrow.  8.  He  came  the  seventh  time  to  Praja- 
pati, who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me  a 
seventh  name,'  he  replied;  'I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  six 
names.'  '  Thou  art  Isana,'  Prajapati  answered ;  for  Isana  is  food. 
Wherefore  Isana  does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  no  one 
reject  him  who  desires  food.     9.  He  came  the  eighth  time  to  Praja- 

^  This  18  the  sense  assigned  by  Bohtliugk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  murchh-\-vi. 


ORiaiN  OF  THE  WOED  S'ATARUDEITA.  347 

jjati,  -who  said  to  him,  'Why  dost  thou  come  to  me?'  'Give  me  an 
eighth  name,'  he  replied;  'I  shall  not  eat  this  food  with  only  seven 
names.'  'Thou  art  A^ani,'  Prajapati  answered;  for  A^ani  is  Indra. 
Wherefore  A^ani  does  not  slay  him,  etc.,  etc.  His  rule  is,  let  a  man 
speak  truth,  and  keep  gold.  This  is  the  Mahandeva  (great  god),  who 
lias  eight  names,  and  who  is  formed  in  eight  ways.  The  progeny  to  the 
Рќаeighth  generation  of  the  man  who  possesses  this  knowledge,  eats  food,  and 
ever  wealthier  and  wealthier  men  will  be  born  among  his  descendants." 

The  following  is  the  account  given  in  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  of 
the  object  and  name  of  the  S'atarudriya : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ix.  1,  1,  1.'┬░' Рђћ Atha  atah  iata/rudriyam  juhoti  \ 
atra  esha  earvo  'gnih  mmshritah  \  sa  esho  'tra  Rudro  devatd  \  tasmin  devah 
etad  amritam  rupam  uttamam  adadhuh  |  sa  esho  'tra  dipyamano  'tishthad 
annam  ichhamanah  |  tasmad  devah  alibhayur  "yad  vai  no  'yam  na  him- 
syad"  iti  |  2.  Te  'iruvann  "  annam  asmai  sambharama  tena  enam  iama- 
yama"  iti\  tasmai  etad  annam  samahhuran  santa-devatyam^  j  tena  enam 
asamayan  \  tad  yad  etam  devam  etena  a^amayams  tasmdeh  chhanta- 
devatyam  \  " santa-devatyam  ha  vai  tach  chhatarudriyam"  ity  achakshate 
parohsham  \  parolcsha-hamdh  hi  devdh  | 

'  "He  now  offers  an  oblation  with  the  S'atarudriya.  Here  this  uni- 
versal fire  has  been  prepared;  and  here  this  Eudra  is  the  deity.  In 
him  the  gods  placed  this  most  excellent  immortal  form.  Here  he  rose 
up  flaming,  desiring  food.  The  gods  were  afraid  of  him,  '  lest '  (they 
thought)  '  he  should  destroy  us.'  2,  They  said,  '  Let  us  collect  food 
for  him,  and  with  it  appease  bin.'  They  collected  for  him  this  food 
with  which  a  deity  is  appeased,  and  with  it  they  appeased  him.  In- 
asmuch as  they  appeased  this  god  with  this,  it  is  therefore  called 
'  S'antadevatya '  ('that  with  which  a  god  is  appeased').  They  call 
this  '  S'antadevatya '  esotericaUy  '  S'ata-rudriya ';  for  the  gods  love 
what  is  esoteric." 


''  Compare  Taitt.  Br.  i.  6,  1,  2.  In  the  same  work,  i.  7,  1,  2,  we  read  that  the 
gods  and  Asuras  were  fighting,  when  the  former  said  to  Agni,  "We  shall  conquer 
with  thee  as  our  champion."  He  said,  "I  shall  transform  myself  into  three  parts." 
He  did  so,  Agni  heing  one  part,  Eudra  a  second,  and  Varuna  a  third,  etc  {te  demh 
Agnim  ahruvcm  "tvat/a  virena  Asuran abhihhamma"  iti\  ao'bramt  "tredhaStmancmi 
mkarishye"  iti  \  sa  tredha  atmanam  vyaku/ruta  Agnim  tritiyaik  Zudram  trifiyam 
Varunam  tritJyam  ityadi). 

'^  S'anta-devatyam  santa-devatartham  devata-s'anty-arthcm  \  Comm. 


348  ORIGIN  OF  THE  "WORD  S'ATAETIDIIITA. 

On  this  the  commentator  remarks  :  Vihito  ^yarh  homo  Rudra-rupaia- 
pannatya  Agner  tipa^amanartham  \  "This  oblation  is  offered  in  order 
to  appease  Agni  who  has  taken  the  form  of  Eudra."  " 

The  same  work  gives,  a  little  further  on,  another  account  of  the 
origin  of  Rudra,  and  a  different  etymology  for  the  S'atarudriya : 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  ix.  1,  1,  6  ff. Рђћ Praj'apater  msrasfad  devatah 
udakramams  tarn  ekah  eva  devo  na  ajahad  Manywr  eva  \  so  'sminn  antar 
vitato  'tishthat  \  so  'rodit  \  tasya  yany  airuni  praskandafhs  tany  asmin 
McmyoM  pratyatishthan  |  sa  eva  Sata-ilrshah  Rudrah  samahhavat  sahasra- 
Icshah  iaUshudhih  \  atha  yah  anyah  viprusho  'patams  ta  asanhhyatd 
sahasrani^  imSn  hkan  amiprdviian  |  tad  yad  ruditdt  samabhavams 
tasmad  Rudrah  \  so  'yam  Sataiirshah  Rudrah  sahasrakshah  iateshudhir'^ 
adhijya-dhanvd  pratihitayi  hhishayamdno  'tishthad  annam  ichhamdnah  | 
tasmdd  devdh  alibhayuh  \  1.  Te  Prajdpatim  abruvan  \  "asmdd  vai 
bibhimo  yad  vai  no  'yam  na  himsydd"  iti  \  so  'bravid  "annam  asmai 
sambha/rata  tena  enam  iamayata"  iti  \  tasmai  etad  annam  samabha/ran 
^atarudriyam  tena  enam  aiamayan  \  tad  yad  eta/m  kataklrshdnam  Rudram 
etena  aSamayams  tasmdoh  ehhataiirsha-rudra-^amanlyam  \  satakirsha- 
rudra-iamamyam  ha  vai  tat  katarudriyam  ity  dehakshate  pwrokshm  \ 
pa/roksha-hdmdh  hi  devah  ityddi  \  ...  14.  "  N'amas  te  Rudra  many  aw" 
iti  I  yah  eva  asmin  so  'ntar  Manyur  vitato  'tishthat  tasmai  etan  namas- 
karoty  uto  "  te  ishave  namo  bdhubhyam  uta  te  namah  "  iti  ishvd  cha  hi 
bdhubhydm  cha  bhtshayamdno  'tishthat  \ 

6.  "From  Prajapati,  when  he  had  become  enfeebled,  the  deities 

'3  In  the  Taitt.  S.  v.  4,  3,  1,  it  is  said :  Mudro  vai  esha  yad  Agnih  \  sa  etarhi  j'ato 
yarhi  sarvas  chitah  sa  yatha  vatso  jatah  stanam  prepsaty  evaih  vai  esha  etarhi  bha- 
gadheyam  prepsati  \  tasmai  yad  ahutim  na  jukwyad  adhvaryum  cha  yajamancm  cha 
dhyayet  \  S'atarudriyamJuhoti\  hhagadheyena  eva  enam  samayati\  na  arfim  a  archaty 
adhvarytir  na  yajamanah  |  "  This  Agni  is  Eudra  (or  terrible).  When  now  he  is 
born,  and  all  kindled,  as  a  calf  when  born  desires  the  udder,  so  he  now  desires  his 
share.  If  an  oblation  were  not  presented  to  him,  he  would  turn  his  thoughts  (with 
the  view  of  devouring)  towards  both  the  adhvaryu  priest  and  the  sacrificer.  The 
S'atarudriya  is  celebrated ;  and  the  priest  quiets  him  with  a  share.  So  both  adhvaryu 
and  sacrificer  avoid  injury."  The  same  work,  v.  5,  7,  4,  says  similarly :  Mudro  vai 
esha- yad  A.gnih  \  sa  yatha  vyaghrah  Jcruddhas  tishthaty  evam  vai  esha  etarhi  |  sanchi- 
tam  etair  upatishthate  namashSrair  eva  enam  eamayati  |  "  This  Agni  is  Rudra  (or 
terrible).  As  a  tiger  stands  raging,  so  does  he  now.  The  priest  approaches  with 
these  [oblations]  [the  fire]  that  has  been  prepared  [and  kindled] ;  and  quiets  him 
with  prostrations. 

**  Compare  Nir.  i.  16,  and  Vaj.  Sanh.  16,  64,  above,  325. 

5*  Compare  Vaj.  Sanh.  xvi.  13,  above,  p.  323. 


TEXTS  FROM  THE  TANDTA  BE.  AND  MAHABHAEATA.       349 

departed.  Only  one  god,  Manyu,  did  not  leare  him,  but  continued 
extended  within  him.  He  (Prajapati)  wept.  The  tears  which  fell 
from  him  remained  in  that  Manyu.  He  became  Eudra  with  a  hundred 
heads,  a  hundred  eyes,  and  a  hundred  quivers.  Then  the  other  drops 
which  fell  from  him  in  unnumbered  thousands  entered  into  these  worlds. 
They  were  called  Eudras  because  they  sprang  from  him  when  he  had 
wept.  This  Eudra  with  a  thousand  heads,  eyes,  and  quivers,  stood 
with  his  bow  strung,  and  arrows  on  the  string,  causing  terror,  and 
demanding  food.  The  gods  were  afraid  of  him.  7.  They  said  to  Pra- 
japati, '"We  are  afraid  of  this  being,  lest  he  destroy  us.'  Prajapati 
said  to  them,  'Collect  for  him  food,  and  with  it  appease  him.'  They 
collected  for  him  this  food,  the  ^atarudriya,  and  with  it  they  appeased 
him.  From  the  fact  that  with  this  they  appeased  the  huudred-headed 
Eudra,  it  is  'that  wherewith  the  hundred-headed  Eudra  is  to  be 
appeased'  {S'ata-iiraha-rui/ra-samaniywm).  This  they  esoterically  call 
S'atarudriya;  for  the  gods  love  what  is  esoteric."  ...  14.  "  'Eeverence, 
Eudra,  to  thy  wrath'  (see  above,  p.  326,  verse  1).  (In  these  words) 
he  (the  priest)  expresses  reverence  to  Manyu,  who  stood  extended 
within  him  (Eudra).  '  Eeverence  also  to  thy  arrow  and  thine  arms.' 
He  (the  god)  stood  causing  terror  with  his  arrow  and  arms." 

The  word  Mahadeva  occurs  in  the  Tandya  Mahabrahmana,  vi.  9,  7, 
Yam  samdm  MdMdevah  pasun  hanyad  ityadi  \  "In  whatever  year 
Mahadeva  slays  cattle."  The  same  work,  vii.  9,  16  ff.,  makes  mention 
of  Eudra  in  connexion  with  cattle  or  victims :  Devah  vai  paSun  vya- 
bhajanta  \  te  Ru&ram  antarayan  |  "The  gods  were  dividing  the  victims. 
They  passed  over  Eudra." 

In  the  descriptions  of  Mahadeva  which  are  found  in  the  passages 
quoted  in  the  last  chapter  from  the  Mahabharata,  though  that  deity  is 
occasionally  identified  with  Agni,  as  he  is  with  other  gods  (see  above, 
p.  204),  he  is  generally  represented  in  a  different  aspect,  and  with 
different  characteristics.  In  the  legend  of  the  birth  of  Skanda  or 
Earttikeya,'*  however,  which  is  narrated  in  the  Vana-parvan  of  that 
poem,  we  find  some  trace  of  the  early  connexion  of  Eudra  with  Agni. 
We  are  there  told  that,  after  Skanda  had  been  installed  in  his  o┬БB.oe  of 
general  of  the  gods  (v.  14424),  Mahadeva  and  Parvati  arrived: 

^*  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.  i.  588,  note,  1st  ed.  =p.  701,  2nd  ed.)  observes  that  this  legend 
differs  from  the  one  on  the  same  subject  in  the  Eamayana,  i.  38,  and  regards  the 
former  as  a  later  interpolation  in  the  Mahabharata. 


350  BIETH  OF  KARTTIKEYA 

14427  ff. Рђћ Agamya  manuja-vyaghra  saha  devya  parantapa  \  archa- 
yamasa  suprito  hhagavan  govrisha-dhvcyah  \  Rudram  Agnifft  dvijdh  pra- 
huh  Rudra-sunus  tatas  tu  sah  \  Rudrena  iuhram  utsrishtam  tat  Svetah 
parvato  'hhavat  \  Pavakasyendriyam  hete  hrittilcabhih  kritam  nage  \  pu- 
jyamdnam  tu  Rudrena  drishtva  sarve  dvoaukasah  \  Rudra-sunum  tatah 
prahw  Gfuham  gunavatafh  varam  \  anupraviiya  Rudrena  vahnim  jato  hy 
ay  am  Sisuk  \  tatra  jdtas  tatah  Shando  Rudra-sunus  tato  ^hhavat  \  Ru- 
drasya  VaJmeh  Svdhayah  skanndm  strindrn  cka  Bhdrata  \  jdtah  Shandah 
sura-h-eshtho  Rudra-sunus  tato  'hhavat  | 

"The  god  -whose  banner  is  a  bull,  arriving  Рќаwitb  his  goddess,  paid 
him  honour,  well  pleased.  Brahmans  call  Agni  Eudra;  consequently  he 
(Karttikeya)  is  the  son  of  Eudra.  The  seed  wHch  -was  discharged  by 
Eudra  became  the  white  mountain.  And  the  seed  of  Pavaka  (Agni) 
was  formed  by  the  Krittikas  on  the  white  mountain.  Having  seen 
Guba  (Karttikeya)  thus  honoured  by  Eudra,  all  the  deities  consequently 
pall  bira,  yrho  is  the  most  excellent  of  the  gifted,  the  son  of  Eudra. 
For  this  child  was  produced  by  Eudra  when  he  had  entered  into  Fire. 
Being  there  born,  Skanda  was  the  son  of  Eudra.  Skanda,  that  most 
eminent  deity,  being  born  from  Agni,  [who  was]  Eudra,  and  from 
Svaha  [and]  the  six  wives  [of  the  Eishis],  was  the  son  of  Eudra." 

The  allusions  in  this  passage  will  become  more  intelligible  if  I  give 
an  outline  of  the  preceding  part  of  the  allegorical  story,  which  com- 
mences with  v.  14241.  Indra  being  distressed  at  the  defeat  of  the 
armies  of  the  gods  {deva-send)  by  the  Danavas  (v.  14245  ff.)  is  medi- 
tating on  this  subject,  when  he  hears  the  cry  of  a  female  calling  for 
help,  and  asking  for  a  husband  to  protect  her.  Indra  sees  that  she  has 
been  seized  by  the  demon  Kesin,  with  whom  he  remonstrates ;  but  the 
demon  hurls  his  club  at  Indra,  who,  however,  splits  it  with  his  thunder- 
bolt. Kesin  is  disabled  in  the  next  stage  of  their  combat,  and  goes  off. 
Indra  then  finds  out  from  the  female  that  her  name  is  Devasena  (army 
of  the  gods),  and  that  she  has  a  sister  called  Daityasena  (army  of  the 
Daityas),  and  that  they  are  both  daughters  of  Prajapati.  Her  sister, 
she  says,  loves  Kei^in,  but  she  herself  does  not,  and  wishes  Indra  to 
find  for  her  a  proper  husband,  who  shall  be  able  to  overcome  all  the 
enemies  of  the  gods.  Indra  takes  Devasena  with  him  to  Brahma  and 
desires  him  to  provide  her  with  a  martial  husband;  and  Brahma 
promises  that  a  helpmate  of  that  description  shall  be  born  (14279  f.). 


ACOORDHiTG  TO  THE  MAHABHARATA.  351 

Indra  then  departs  with  Devasena.  It  happened  that  Va^ishtha  and 
other  rishis  had  been  offering  a  saoriflce,  whither  the  gods  headed  by 
Indra  proceeded  to  drink  the  soma-juice.  Agni  too,  being  invoked, 
descended  from  the  region  of  the  sun,  entered  into  the  fire,  received 
the  oblations  of  the  rishis,  and  presented  them  to  the  gods.  The  story 
then  proceeds  (v.  14287) : 

Nishkramarns  chapy  apa^yat  sa  patnis  teshdm  mahatmandm  \  svesTiv 
aSrameshupavishtdh  svapanti^  eha  tathd  sukham  |  rukma-vedi-nibhas "'  tas 
tu  chandra-Iehhdh  ivdmaldh  \  hutdsandrchih-pratimdh  sarvds  tdrdk  ivdd- 
bhutdh  I  sa  tatra  tena  manasd  labhuva  kshubhitendfriyah  \  patnir  drishtvd 
dvifendrdndm  Vahnih  Mma-vaSam  yayau  \  hhuydh  sa  chintaydmdsa  na 
nydyyaih  hshuhhito  hy  dham  |  sddhvyah  patnyo  dvijendrdndm  akdmdh, 
ledmaydmy  aham  \  naitdh  iakydk  mayd  -drashtum  prashtum  vd  'py  am- 
mittatah  \  gdrhapatyam  samdvisya  tasmdt  pasydmy  ahMkshnaiah,  \  sam- 
spriSann  iva  sarvds  tdk  iikhdlhih  hdnehana-prabhdh  \  paiyamanai  cha 
mumude  gdrhapatyafh  samdkritah  \  nirushya  tatra  suehiram  evam  Vah- 
nir  vasam  gatah  \  manas  tdsu  vinihkshipya  kdmaydno  vardngandh  \  kdma-, 
santapta-hridayo  deha-tydga-viniichitah  \  aldhhe  brdhmana-strinam  Agnir 
vanam  updgamdt  \  Svdhd  tarn  Daksha-duhitd  prathamam  kdmayat  tadd  I 
sd  tasya  chhidram  anvaichhach  chirdt-pralhriti  bhdvim  \  apramattasya 
devasya  na  cha  pakyaty  aninditd  \  sd  tarn  jndtvd  yathdvat  tu  Vahnim 
vanam  updgatam  \  tattvatah  kdma-santaptam  chintaydmdsa  Ihdvim  | 
aham  saptarshi-patmndm  kritvd  rupdni  Pdvakam  \  kdmayishydmi  hd- 
mdrtd  tdsdm  rupena  mohitam  \  evam  krite  pritir  asya  kdmdvdptU  eha 
me  bhavet  |  S'ivd  bhdryd  tv  Angirasah  ^lla-rupa-gundnvitd  \  tasydh  sd 
prathamam  rupam  kritvd  dem  janddhipa  \  jagdma  Pdvakdbhydsam  tarn 
chovdcha  vardngand  \  mdm  Agne  kdma-santaptdm  fvam  kdmayitum 
arhasi  \  ka/rishyasi  na  ched  evam  mritam  mdm  iipadhdraya  \  aham 
Angiraso  bhdryd  8'ivd-ndmd  Hutdiana  \  sishtdbhih  prahitd  prdptd 
mantrayitvd  vinischayam  \  Agnir  uvdoha  \  katham  mam  tvam  vijdnishe 
kdmdrtam  itardh  katham  \  yds  tvayd  kirtitdh  sarvdh  saptarsMndm 
priydh  striyah  \  S'ivd  uvdcha  \  asmdkdm  tvam  priyo  nityam  bibhimas  tu 
vayam  tava  \  tvachehittam  ingitair  jndtvd  preshitd  ^smi  tavdntiham,  \ 
maithundyeha  samprdptd  hdmam  prdptum  drutam  chara  \  ydmayo  mdm 

^  In  Ramayana  iii.  32,  6,  Eavana  is  described  as  EuJcma-vedi-gatam,  -whicli  the 
Commentator  explains  as  rukma-vedim  praptam  hiranyeshtalca-chitam  vedim  praptam  | 
"mounted  on  a  platform  of  golden  bricks." 


352  KiRTTIKETA  THE  SON  OF  AGNI-RUDEA, 

pratilcshanie  gamishydmi  Hutdiana  \  Marhandeyah  uvacJia  \  tato  'gnir 
wpayeme  tarn  S'ivdm  pritdm  mudd  yutah  \  prltyd  den  samdyuktd  sukram 
jagrdha  pdnind  |  aeMntayad  mamedam  ye  rupam  drakshyanti  kdnane  \  te 
hrdhmamndm  anritam  dosham  vakshyanti  Pdvake  \  tasmdd  etad  raksha- 
mdnd  Garudl  sambhavdmy  aham  \  vandd  nirgamanam  chaiva  sukham  mama 
hhavishyati  \  Suparni  sd  tadd  hhutvd  nirjagdma  mahdvandt  \  apaiyat 
pa/rvatam  &vetam  iara-stambaih  susamvritam  \  druhtlvishaih  sapta-sirshair 
giiptam  hhogihldr  adhhutaih  |  rahshobhii  cha  piidohais  cha  raud/rair  bkuta- 
ganais  tathd  \  rdkshasibhiS  cha  sampurnam  anekaiicha  mriga-dvijaih  j  sd 
tatra  sahasd  gatvd  saila-prishfham  sudurgamam  \  prdkshipat  kanehane 
hunde  iukram  sd  tvaritd  Suhhd  |  saptdndm  api  sd  devi  saptarshmdm 
mahdtmandm  \  patm-sa/rupatam  kritvd  kdmaydmdsa  Pdvakam  \  dwya- 
rupam  Arundhatydh  kmrtum  na-sakitam  tayd  \  tasyds  tapah-prdbhdvena 
Ihartuh  suirushanena  cha  \  shatkritvas  tat  tu  nihkshiptam  Agneh  retah 
Kv/rattama  \  tasmin  kunde  pratipadi  kdminyd  Svdhayd  tadd  \  tat  skan- 
nafh  tej'asd  tatra  samvritarh  janayat  sutam  \  rishihhih  pujitam  skannam 
anayat  Skandatdm  tatah  \  shat-iirdh  d/viguna-irotro  dvddaidkshi-lhuja- 

kramah  \  eka-grlvaika-jatharah  kumdrah  samapadyata  \ 

V.  14514:  Tadd  Skandena  mdtrmdm  evam  etat  priyam  kritam  \  ta- 
thainam  abravit  Svdhd  "mama  putras  tvam  awrasah  \  ichhamy  aham 
tvayd  dattdm  pritim  parama-durlahhdm  "  \  idm  abrdvit  tatah  Skanddh 
pritim  ichhasi  kidrisim  \  Svdhd  uvdcha  \  Dakshasydham  priyd  kanyd 
Svdhd  ndma  mahdhhuja  \  hdlydt  prahhriti  nityancha  jdta-kdmd  Sutd- 
kane  \  na  sa  mdm  kdminim  putra  samyag  jdndti  Pdvakah  \  ichhdmi 
sdsvatam  vdsam  vastum  putra  sahdgnina  \  Skandah  uvdcha  \  Savyam 
kavyancha  yat  kinehid  dmijdndm  mantra-samstutam  \  hoshyanty  Agrtau 
sadd  devi  svdhety  uldvd  sanuddhritam  \  adya  prahhriti  ddsyanti  suvrittdh 
sat-pathe  sthitdh  \  evam  Agnis  tvayd  sdrdham  sadd  vatsyati  soh?iane  \ 
Mdrkandeyah  uvacha  \  evam  uktd  tatah  Svdhd  tushtd  Skandena  puj'itd  \ 
Pdvakena  samdyuktd  bhartrd  Skandam  apujayat  \  tato  Brahma  Mahd- 
senam  Prajdpatir  athdbravit  |  abhigachha  Mahddevam  pitaram  tripurdr- 
danam  \  Euirendgnim'  samdviiya  svdhdm  dvisya  choriiayd  \  hitdrtham 
sarva-hkdndm  j'dtas  tvam  apardjitah  | 

"  Issuing  forth,  he  beheld  the  wives  of  these  great  [rishis]  reclining 
in  their  own  hermitages,  and  sweetly  sleeping,  resembling  golden  altars, 
pure  as  beams  of  the  moon,  like  to  flames  of  fire,  all  wonderful  as  stars. 
Perceiving  that,  his  senses  became  agitated.     Beholding  the  wives  of 


SVAHA,  AND  THE  SIX  RISHIS'  "WIVES.  353 

the  Brahmans,  Agni  was  overcome  by  desire.  Again  and  again  he 
reflected,  'It  is  not  proper  that  I  should  be  thus  agitated:  I  am 
enamoured  of  the  chaste  spouses  of  the  Brahmans,  who  are  not  in  love 
with  me.  They  cannot  be  looked  upon  or  questioned  by  me  without 
reason.  Entering  into  the  domestic  fire,  I  shall  gaze  upon  them  close 
at  hand.'  Entering  the  domestic  fire,  touching,  as  it  were,  with  his 
flames,  all  of  them,  who  were  bright  as  gold,  and  beholding  them,  he 
was  delighted.  Dwelling  thus  there  for  a  long  time,  fixing  his  atten- 
tion upon  these  beautiful  women,  and  enamoured  of  them,  Agni  was 
overcome.  His  heart  being  distressed  with  desire,  Agni,  failing  to 
obtain  the  Brahmans'  wives,  resolved  to  abandon  his  corporeal  form, 
and  went  into  the  forest.  Then  Svaha,  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  first 
fell  in  love  with  him.  This  amorous  and  blameless  goddess  for  a  long 
time  sought  for  his  weak  point,  but  as  the  god  was  watchful,  she  could 
not  find  any.  But  being  perfectly  aware  that  he  had  gone  into  the 
wood,  and  that  he  was  really  disturbed  by  desire,  the  amorous  goddess 
thus  reflected :  '  I,  who  am  distressed  by  love,  will  take  the  forms  of 
the  seven  rishis'  wives,  and  will  court  the  affection  of  Agni,  who  is 
enchanted  by  their  beauty.  By  doing  so  he  will  be  pleased,  and  I 
shall  obtain  my  desire.'  Assuming  first  the  form  of  S'iva,  the  wife  of 
Angiras,  who  possessed  a  good  disposition,  beauty,  and  excellent 
qualities,  the  handsome  goddess  (Svaha)  went  to  Agni,  and  thus  ad- 
dressed him:  'Agni,  thou  oughtest  to  love  me,  who  am  disturbed 
with  love  for  thee :  if  thou  wilt  not  do  so,  look  upon  me  as  dead. 
Agni,  I,  S'iva,  the  wife  of  Angiras,  have  come,  sent  by  virtuous 
women,  and  having  considered  my  determination.'  Agni  replied: 
'  How  dost  thou,  and  how  do  all  the  other  beloved  wives  of  the  seven 
rishis  whom  thou  mentionest,  know  that  I  am  distressed  with  love  ? ' 
S'iva  answered :  '  Thou  hast  always  been  beloved  by  us,  but  we  are 
afraid  of  thee.  Knowing  thy  heart  by  external  signs,  I  have  been  sent 
to  thee.  I  have  come  to  be  embraced :  come  quickly  and  fulfil  thy 
desire.  The  other  females  are  awaiting  me  ;  I  shall  depart,  Huta^ana 
(Agni).'  Agni  then  with  joy  embraced  the  delighted  S'iva.  The  god- 
dess fiUed  with  delight  took  his  seed  in  her  hand.  She  reflected,  '  AU 
those  who  shall  see  this  form  of  mine  in  the  forest  will  falsely  allege 
the  transgression  of  Brahmans'  wives  with  Agni.  Wherefore  preserving 
this,  I  shall  become  Garudi ;  and  thus  my  egress  from  the  wood  wiU 

VOL.  IT.  23 


354  BIRTH  OF  KARTTIKETA. 

become  easy.  She  then,  becoming  Suparni,  issued  from  the  great 
forest,  and  beheld  the  white  mountain  surrounded  by  palisades  of 
arrows,  guarded  by  wondrous  seven-headed  serpents,  whose  very 
glance  was  venomous,  by  Eakshasas,  Pi^aohas,  and  by  hosts  of  Eudra's 
demons,  filled  with  Eakshasis,  and  numerous  beasts  and  birds.  The 
beautiful  goddess,  having  then  gone  quickly  to  the  summit  of  the 
mountain,  which  was  difficult  of  access,  hastily  threw  the  seed  into 
a  golden  reservoir.  Thus  this  goddess,  assuming  in  succession  the  re- 
semblance of  the  wives  of  the  seven  great  rishis,  loved  Agni.  But  she 
could  not  take  the  divine  form  of  ArundhatI  (the  wife  of  Yasishtha), 
owing  to  the  power  of  the  latter's  austerity,  and  her  obedience  to  her 
husband.  Six  times  was  the  seed  of  Agni  thrown  by  the  enamoured 
Svaha  into  the  reservoir  on  the  pratipad  (the  first  day  of  the  lunar 
fortnight).  Discharged  there  and  collected,  that  seed  by  its  energy 
generated  a  son.  That  [seed]  which  was  discharged  {lianna),  being 
worshipped  by  the  rishis,  gave  to  this  son  his  character  of  Skanda. 
Kumara  (Karttikeya)  was  bom  with  six  heads,  a  double  number  of 
ears,  twelve  eyes,  arms,  and  feet,  one  neck,  and  one  beUy."  Kartti- 
keya marries  Devasena  (vv.  14446  ff.).  The  six  rishis'  wives,  his 
mothers,  afterwards  come  to  him,  complaining  that  they  had  been 
abandoned  by  their  husbands,  and  degraded  from  their  former  position, 
and  asking  him  to  secure  their  admission  into  paradise  (svarga).  The 
story  then  proceeds  (v.  14514  ff.):  "When  Skanda  had  done  what 
was  gratifying  to  his  mothers,  Svaha  said  him,  '  Thou  art  my  genuine 
son :  I  desire  the  love,  difficult  to  obtain,  which  thou  givest.'  Skanda 
then  asked  her,  'What  love  dost  thou  desire?'  Svaha  replied,  'I  am 
the  beloved  daughter  of  Daksha,  by  name  Svaha.  From  my  childhood 
I  have  been  enamoured  of  Agni.  But,  my  son,  Agni  does  not  thoroughly 
know  me,  who  am  enamoured  of  him.  I  wish  to  dwell  perpetually 
with  Agni.'  Skanda  rejoined:  'Whatever  oblation  of  Brahmans  is 
introduced  by  hymns,  they  shall  always,  goddess,  lift  and  throw  it 
into  the  fire,  saying,  "Svaha."  Erom  this  day  forward,  virtuous  men, 
abiding  in  the  right  path,  shall  grant  [thee  this].  Thus,  0  beautiful 
goddess,  Agni  shall  dwell  with  thee  continually.'  Being  thus  addressed 
by  Skanda,  Svaha,  gratified,  worshipped  by  Skanda,  and  united  with 
Agni  as  her  husband,  worshipped  Skanda.  Then  Brahma  Prajapati 
said  to  Mahasena  (Skanda),  '  Go  to  thy  father  Mahadeva,  the  vexer  of 


QTTOTATION  FROM  THE  STETASTATAEA  UPANISHAD.      355 

Tripura.  Thou  unconquered  hast  been  produced  for  the  good  of  all 
worlds  by  Eudra  who  had  entered  into  Agni,  and  ┬Цma  who  had  entered 
into  Svaha.'" 

Sect.  V. Рђћ Passages  relating  to  Budra  in  the  TTpcmishads. 

To  the  preceding  passages,  descriptive  of  Eudra,  from  the  Brahmanas, 
I  shall  now  subjoin  a  few  of  a  different  character  from  the  XJpanishads. 

The  first  is  from  the  SVetasvatara  Upanishad  (Bibliotheca  Indica, 
vol.  vii.,  pp.  323  ff.) : 

SVetaivaratara  Upanishad,  iii.  1  ff. Рђћ  Yah  eko  jalanan  iSate  lianibMh 
sarvan  loMn  liate  Uanlhhih  \  yah  eva  elcah  zedbhave  samhhave  cha  ye  etad 
vidur  amritas  te  hhavanti  \  2.  Mho  hi  Rudro  na  doitiydya  tasthur^'  yah 
iman  lokan  Isate  Uanlbhih  \  pratyan  janams  tishthati  sanehukopanta- 
hdle^^  samsrijya  vihd  bhuvandni gopdh  \  3.  (E.V.  x.  81,  3,  above,  p.  5.) 
Fiivatai-chakshur  wta  viivato-muTcho  vihato-hdhur  uta  vihatas-pat  |  sam 
Idhubhydm  dhamati sam patatrair  dydvdhhumim  {si.c)janayan  devah  elcah\ 
4.  Yo  devdndm  prdbhaea^  chodhhavai  cha  viivddhipo  Budro  maharshih  | 
Hiranyagarbham  janayamdsa  purvam^"''  sa  no  buddhyd  ^ubhayd  sam- 
yunaUu  \  5  and  6=Vaj.  S.  xvi.  2,  3  (see  above,  p.  322)  .  .  .  .  iv.  21. 
Ajdtah  ity  evam  kasehid  Ihiriih  pratipadyate  \  Budra  yat  te  dahshinam 
muhham  tena  mam  pdhi  nityam  \  22=E.V.  i.  114,  8,  and  Taj.  S.  xvi. 
16  with  various  readings  (see  above,  pp.  303  and  323).  "He  who 
alone,  the  enchanter,  rules  by  his  powers,  rules  all  worlds  by  his 

'^  These  words  na  dvifiyaya  tmthuh  appear  to  be  established  as  the  current  read- 
ing of  this  passage ;  and  a  reading  partly  similar  (with  variations  in  other  respects) 
will  be  found  below  in  a  corresponding  verse  which  occurs  in  the  Atharva-s'iras.  The 
commencement  of  the  verse  is,  however,  also  found  in  the  Nirukta,  i.  15,  where  the 
reading  is  different  and  preferable,  elcah  eva  Eudro  'vatasthe  na  dvitlyah;  and  Sayana, 
in  his  commentary  on  the  Eig-veda  (quoted  in  vol.  iii.  of  this  work,  p.  60),  gives  the 
words  thus,  ekah  eva  Rudro  na  doitiyo  'vatasthe.  Durga,  the  commentator  on  the 
Nirukta,  as  cited  by  Eoth  (lUust.  of  Nir.,  p.  12,  note  4),  quotes  the  whole  verse  as 
follows  (without  saying  from  what  work  it  is  taken) :  Mkah  eva  Budro  'vatasthe  na 
dvitiyo  rane  vighndn  pritanasu  iatrun  \  samsrijya  viiva  ihuvanani  gopta  pratyan 
jamn  snnchukosanta-kale  |  "One  only  Eudra  has  existed  and  no  second;  slaying 
his  enemies  in  the  conflicts  of  the  battle.  Having  created  all  worlds,  a  protector,  he 
draws  back  all  beings  into  himself  at  the  time  of  the  end." 

*  The  proper  reading  is  probably  samchukooha.  See  the  last  note ;  and  Bbhtlingk 
and  Eoth,  s.v.  kuch-\-sam;  where  sanchukocha  is  given  as  the  proper  reading,  instead 
of  aanohukoia,  which  is  found  in  Eoth's  lUust.  of  Nirukta,  p.  12,  note  4. 

i""  These  two  words  are  varied  below,  4, 12,  thus ;  paiyata  jayamanam,  i.e.  "beheld 
Hiranyagarbha  being  bom."    The  rest  of  the  verse  remains  the  same. 


356  PASSAGE  TEOM  THE  ATHAEVAS'IEAS 

powers,  lie  who  in  origination  and  in  production  is  alone, Рђћ they  who 
know  this  become  immortal.  2.  For  Kiidra  who  rules  these  worlds 
by  his  powers,  is  but  one;  [the  wise]  do  not  assert  (?)  a  second. 
Having,  a  preserver,  created  all  worlds,  he  abides  in  men  seve- 
rally; he  displays  his  wrath  (absorbs  them?)  at  the  time  of  the 
end.  3.  This  one  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  on  every  side  a 
face,  on  every  side  arms,  on  every  side  feet,  when  producing  the 
heaven  and  earth,  fashions  them  with  his  arms  and  with  his  wings. 
4.  May  Eudra,  the  lord  of  all,  the  great  rishi,  the  cause  of  production 
and  the  source  of  the  gods,  who  first  generated  Hiranyagarbha, Рђћ may 

he  put  us  in  possession  of  an  excellent  understanding Hid.  iv. 

21.  Some  fearful  man  concludes  thus Рђћ '[Thou  art]  unborn.'  Eudra, 
protect  me  with  thy  southern  face." 

The  next  passage  is  from  the  commencement  of  the  Atharva-siras '"' 
TJpanishad.  The  MSS.  which  I  have  consulted  vary  very  much  in 
their  readings : 

JDevah  ha  vai  svargam  loham  agaman  \  te  ievah  Eudram  wpriehchhcm 
"  ko  Ihman  "  iti  \  so  'hravid  "  aham  elcah  prathamam  asam  vartami  oha 
hkavuhyami  cha  na  anyah  Tcaschid  matto  vyatirihtah  "  iti  \  so  'ntardd  anta- 
ramprdvi^ad  disaioha  antaram  sampraviSat  \  "so  'ham  nitydnityo  vyalctd- 
vyakto  'ham  Brahmdhrahma  aham  prdnchah  pratyanclw  ''ham  dahahindneha 
[dalcshinas  chaf]  udancho  'ham  adhaioha  urddhvanoha  diiascha  pratidi^ai- 
cha  aham  pumdn  apumdn  stri  cha  aham  savitry  aham  gdyatry  aham, 
trishtub  jagaty  anushtu^  oha  aham  chhando  'ham  gdrhapatyo  dakshindgnir 
dhavamyo  'ham  satyo  'ham  gaur  aham  Gaury  aharn  jyeshtho  'hamireshtho 
'ham  varishtho  'ham  dpo  'ham  tejo  'ham  rig-yajuh-samdtkarvdngiraso 
'ham  'aksharam  aham  hsharam  aham  guhyo  'ham  gopyo  'ham  a/ranyo  'ham 
pushkaram  aham  pavitram  aham  agrancha  madhyancha  vahiicha  purastdj 
jyotir  ity  aham  ehah  \  sarvancha  mdm  eva  mam  yo  veda  sa  sarvan  devdn 
veda  1  gam  golhir  hrdhmandn  hrdhmanyena  havimshi  havishd  dyur  dyushd 
satyam  satyena  dharmam  dharmena  tarpaydmi  svena  tej'asd  "  |  iato  devdh 
Rudram  na  apasyams  te  devdh  Eudram  dhydyanti  tato  devah  urdhva- 
Idhavah  stuvanti  yo  vai  Eudrah  sa  bhagavdn  yaS  cha  Brahma  tasmai 
vai  namo  namah  \  yo  vai  Eudrah  sa  Ihagavdn  yakcha  Vishnus  tasmat 
vai  namo  namah  |  yo  vai  Eudrah  sa  bhagavdn  yaioha  Maheharas  tasma% 

i<"  A  -work  called  Atharva-^iras  is  mentioned  in  the  passage  of  the  Raraayana,  i. 
14,  2,  quoted  above,  p..  165  f.    See  "Weber's  Indische  Studien,  i.  382  ff. ;  andii.  53  ff, 


UPANISHAD  EEaAEDING  ETJDEA.  357 

vai  namo  namah  \  yo  vai  Rudrah,  sa  Ihagman  ya  cha  TJma  tasmai  .  .  .  .  | 
yo  vai  JRuch-ah  sa  Ihagman  yaicha  Vmayaias  tasmai  .  .  .  .\  yo  vai 
Etcdrah  ....  yahha  Skandah  .  .  .  .  \  yo  vai  Eudrah  .  .  *  .  yaicha 
Indrah  .  .  .  .  \  yo  vai  Eudrah  ....  yaicha  Agnih  .  .  .  ,\  yo  vai 
Eudrah  .  .  .  .  ya  cha  Bhuh  .  .  .  .  |  yo  vai  Eudrah  ....  yaicha 
Ehuvah  .  .  .  .  |  am  adau  madhye  Ihur  hhuvah  suvar  ante  iirsham 
janadom "'  viiva-riepo  'si  \  Brahma  eias  tvafh  dmitridha  urdhvam  adhai 
cha  tvam  iantiicha  tvam  pushtiicha  tvaM  tushtiioha  tvamt  hutam  ahutam 
viivcm  aviivam  dattam  adattam  hritam  ahritam  param  aparam  para- 
yananeha  Hi  \  "apama  somam^"^  amritah  abhuma  aganmajyotir  avidama 
devdn  I  kim  nunam  asman  hrinavad  ardtih  him  u  dhurtir  amrita  ma/rt- 
yasya"  \  (E.V.  viii.  48,  3)  |  sarva-jagaddhitam  vai  etad  ahshwram praja- 
patyam  suhhmam  saumyam  purusham  agrahyam  agrdhyena  Vayum 
vdyavyena  somam  saumyena  grasati  svena  tejasd  \  tasmai  wpasafhhwrtre 
mahagrdsaya  vai  namo  namah  \  hridisthdh  devatdh  sarvah  hridi  prdne 
pratishihitdh  |  hridi  tvam  asi  yo  nityam  tisro  mdtrdh  pa/ras  tu  sah  \ 
tasya  uttaratah  iiro  daTcshinatah  pddau  yah  utta/ratah  sa  omkdrah  \  yah 
omkdrah  sa  pranavo  yah  prana/vah  sa  sarva-vydpi  yah  sarva-vydpi  so 
'nanto  yo  'nantas  tat  tdram^┬░*  yat  tdrarn  tat  sulcshmam  yat  suhhmam 
tat  iuhlam  yat  iuklam  tad  vaidyutam  yad  vaidyutam  tat  param  Brahma 
iti  sa  elcah  \  sa  eko  Eudrah  sa  lidnah  sa  Ihagamdn  sa  MaJieivarah  sa 
Mahddevah  \  atha  kasmdd  uchyate  omkdrah  |  yasmdd  uchchdryamdnah 
eva  sarvam  ia/rlram  unndmayati  tasmdd  uchyate  ofhkdrah  ....  atha 
kasmad  uchyate  ekah  \  yah  sarvdn  lokdn  udgrihnati^"^  srijati  visrijati 
vdsayati  tasmdd  uchyate  ekah  \  atha  kasmdd  uchyate  eko  Eudrah  \  "eko 
Eudro  na  dvitiydya  tasthe  {sthitavdn  \  advitiyah  eva  sthitavdn  \  Comm.) 
turlyam  imam  lokam  liate  tianiyur  (niyamana-iaktimdn  |  Comm..)  jmam- 
yuh  (viivotpddaka-iaktimdn  \  Comm.)  |  pratyan  j'ands  tisthanti  samyug 

10*  The  commentator  explains  this  thus :  S'irahcm  siro  mantrah  svaha  ity  evamru- 
pah  I  janadom  janada  iti  ka/rmopalakshandrtham  akshara-tra/yam  \  janam  janim  tad- 
wpalalcshita-jcmimad vastu-jatam  tad daddtiiti janadah]  tasya  sambodhaMam[  Instead 
of  the  words  in  the  text,  another  MS,  reads,  hfms  te  adir  madhyam  bliuvas  te  svas  te 
s'rsham  viavarupo  'si. 

1"'  Umaya  Srahma-vidya-svarupinya  Katyayanya  saha  vartate  iti  Somas  tarn  | 
[Soma  is  tims =sa-]-Uma,  "with  Uma"]  yatah  somam  apama  tatah  amritah  marana- 
hetubhir  avidya-tat-lcarya-samskarair  vivarjitah  abhuma  sampannah  \ Comm. 

W4  Tarayati,  "delivers :"  that  which  delivers. Рђћ Comm. 

M5  Urdhva-mokiham  atmani  grihnati  \  Рђћ Comm. 


358  PASSAGE  FROM  THE  ATHAEVAS'IRAS 

asyantakale  samhritya  viiva  bhuvanani  goptd "  \  tasmad  uchyate  eko 
Sudrah^'^l  atha  kasmad,  uchyate  ISano  "yah  mrvdn  lokan  isate  Uanihhir" 
jananlhhih  parama-saktibhih  \  "  alM  tvd  Sura  nomtmah  adugdhah  iva 
dhena/eah  |  tidnam  asya  j'ayatah  svardrisam  tidnam  Indra  tastuahah  "  | 
(E.V.  vii.  32, 22)  |  tasmdd  uchyate  Ikdnah  |  .  .  .  .  atha  hasmdd  uchyate 
Maheharah  \  yah  sandn  lohdn  samhhahhah  sambhakshayaty  ajawam 
arijati  visrijati  vasayati  tasmdd  uchyate  Maheharah  |  atha  kasmad 
uchyate  Mahadevah  |  yah  sarvdn  bhdvdn  parityajya  dtma-jndna-yogai&- 
varye  mahati  mahvyate  tasmad  uchyate  Mahddevah  \  tad  etad  {etad  ndma- 
nirukti-rupam  charitam  \  Comm.)  Rudra-charitam  \  "  eeho  ha  devah 
pradiio  'nu  sarvdh  purvo  ha  j'dtah  sa  u  gmrbhe  antah  \  sa  eva  jdtah  sa 
janishyamdnah pratyan  jands  tishthati  vUvato-muhhah"  \  (Vaj.  S.  32,  4)| 
"  vUvatas-chakshur  uta  vihato-mukho  vihato-bdhur  uta  vihatas-pdt  \ 
sam  bdhuhhydm  dhamati  saw,  patatrair  dydvd-prithivl  janayan  devah 
ekah"  \  (R.V.  x.  81,  3)  |  .  .  .  .  Eudre  ekatvam  {aikyam  \  Comm.) 
ahuh  I  Rudram  idivatam  nai  purdnam  ityddi  ....  |  vratam  etat 
pdiupatam  |  Agnir  iti  bhasma  Vdyur  iti  bhasmajalam  iti  bhasma  athalam 
iti  bhasma  vyoma  iti  bhasma  sarvam  ha  vai  idam  bhasma  manah  etdni 
chakshumshi  bhasmdni  \  "Agnir"  ityddind  bhasma  grihitvd  nimrifya 
angdni  samspriset  \  tasmdd  vratam  etat  pdiupatam  paiu-pdka-vimokshdya  \ 
yo  'tharva-Uram  brdhmano  'dhite  so  'gni-puto  bhavati  |  sa  vdyu-puto 
ihavati  \  sa  dditya-puto  bhavati  \  sa  soma-puto  bhavati  \  sa  satya-bhuto 
bhavati  sa  smva-bhvdo  bhavati  \  sa  sarveshu  tirtheshu  sndto  bhavati  \  sa 
sarveshu  vedeshv  adhito  bhavati  \  sa  sarva-veda-vrata-cha/rydsu  charito 
bhavati  \  sa  sarvair  devair  j'ndto  ihavati  \  sa  sarva-yqfna-kratubhir 
ishtavdn  bhavati  \  tena  itihdsu-purdndndm  Budrdndm  Sata-sahasrdni 
j'aptdni  bhavanti  |  gdyatrydh  Sata-sahasram  japtam  bhavati  |  pranavdndm 
ayutam  japtam  bhavati  \  rupe  rupe  {pdthe  pdthe  pratipdtham  \  Comm.) 
dasa-purvdn  pundti  dahttardn  a  chakshushah  panktim  pundti  itydha 
bhagavdn  Atha/rva-kiro  ' tha/rva-iirah  {abhydsah  ddardrthah  |  Comm.)  | 
sakrijjaptvd  iuchihputah  karmanyo  bhavati  \  dvitiyarh  japtva  gdnapatyam 
{sarva-niyantritvam  \  Comm)  avdpnoti  tritlyam  japtvd  devam  eva  anu- 
praviiaty  om  satyam  \  "  yo  Rudro  agnau  yo  apsv  antar  ya  oshadhlr 
virudhah  dviveia  \  ya  ima  viivd  bhuvanani  chdklripe  tasmai  Rudrdya 
namo  'stu  Agnaye"  \  (A.  V.  vii.  87,  1,  above,  p.  333). 

'"^  In  another  MS.  a  different  answer  is  given  to  this  question :  Tasmad  rishibhir 
na  ant/air  ihaktair  drutam  asya  rupam  upalahhyate  \  "He  is  called  'Eudra'  because 
his  form  is  quickly  {drutam)  perceived  by  rishis,  and  not  by  other  devout  persons." 


UPANISHAD  REGAEDING  EUDEA.  359 

"The  gods  went  to  heaven.  They  asked  Kudra,  'Who  art  thou?' 
He  said,  '  I  alone  was  before  [all  things],  and  I  exist,  and  I  shall  be. 
No  other  transcends  me.'  He  entered  into  one  space  after  another,  and 
into  the  space  of  the  sky.  '  I  am  eternal  and  not  eternal,  discernible 
and  undiscemible,  I  am  Erahma,  I  am  not  Brahma,^"'  I  am  the  east- 
ern, western,  southern,  northern  [breaths,  etc.,  Comm.],  I  am  below 
and  above,  the  regions,  and  the  intermediate  regions,  I  am  male, 
eunuch,  and  female,  I  am  the  Savitrl,  I  the  Gayatrl,  I  the  Trishtubh, 
Jagati,  and  Anushtubh  (metres),  I  am  metre,  I  am  the  household,  the 
southern,  and  the  ahavaniya  fires,  I  am  true,  I  am  the  earth  (or  cow), 
I  am  Gauri,"'  I  am  the  eldest,  I  am  the  chief,  I  am  the  most  excellent, 
I  am  the  waters,  I  am  brilliancy,  I  am  the  Eik,  Tajush,  Saman, 
Atharvangirases,  I  am  the  undeeaying,  I  the  decaying,  I  the  mysteri- 
ous, I  the  secret,  I  dwell  in  the  forests,  I  am  the  pushkara  (sacrificial 
jar),  the  filter,  the  end,  the  middle,  the  outside,  the  front,  and  light, 
Рђћ I  alone.  He  who  knows  me  only,  me,  to  be  all,  knows  all  the 
gods.  By  my  own  energy  I  satisfy  the  earth  with  rays  (or  the  cow 
with  cows),  the  Brahmans  with  brahmanhood,  oblations  with  oblation, 
life  with  life,  truth  with  truth,  righteousness  with  righteousness.' 
Then  the  gods  did  not  behold  lludra.  They  meditate  upon  him. 
Then  the  gods,  with  arms  raised  aloft,  praise  him  :  '  He  who  is  Eudra 
is  divine,  and  he  who  is  Brahma,  to  him  be  adoration.  He  who  is 
Eudra  is  divine,  and  he  who  is  Vishnu,  to  him  be  adoration.  He 
who  is  Eudra  is  divine,  and  he  who  is  Mahe^vara,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra  is  divine,  and  he  who  is  TJma,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who  is  Vinayaka,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who  is  Skanda,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who  is  Indra,  to  him  be  adoration. 
He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and  he  who  is  Agni,  etc.  He  who  is  Eudra, 
etc.,  and  he  who  is  Bhuh,  etc.  He  who  is  Eudra,  etc.,  and'  he  who 
is  Bhuvah,  etc.  (In  the  same  way  Eudra  is  identified  with  smah 
[svaK]  ;  mahah ;  jana ;  tapas ;  satya  ;  prithim  ;  apas  ;  tejas ;  vayu  ; 
aka^a;  surya;  soma;  nakshatrani ;  ashtau  grahah;  pram;  kola; 
Yama;  mrityu;  amrita;  Ihuta;  Ihwoya;  hhavishyat;  visva;  hritsna; 

""  Yalcyabhyaso  ritpasya  atmano  mstcmatva-pradar^anarthah  |  Comm.    I  should 
rather  suppose,  howeyer,  that  the  second  word  is  not  Brahma,  hut  abrahma. 
1U8  s'iva-priya  \  ashtmarsha  va  humari  gcmra-varna  bala-tata  {?)  tu  \  Comm. 


360  TEANSLATIOlSr  OF  PASSAGE 

sarva;  and  safya.)  Om!  at  the  beginning,  and  in  the  middle  are  Bhur, 
Bhuvah,  Svah ;  at  the  end  is  the  head.  0  giver  of  life,  Om,  thou  art 
universal-formed.  Thou  alone  art  Brahma  doubly,  and  triply,  above 
and  below;  thou  art  gentleness,  fatness,  contentment;  thou  art  the 
thing  sacrificed,  and  the  thing  not  sacrificed,  the  whole,  and  not  the 
whole,  what  is  given,  and  what  is  not  given,  what  is  done,  and  what 
is  not  done,  that  which  is  supreme,  and  not  supreme,  and  what  is 
surpassing.  '  We  have  drunk  the  Soma,  we  have  become  immortal, 
we  have  entered  into  light,  we  have  known  the  gods.  What  can  an 
enemy  now  do  to  us  ?  What  can  the  malice  of  any  mortal  effect,  0 
immortal  god?"Рёб  This  imperishable  [principle],  beneficial  to  the  whole 
world,  sprung  from  [or,  having  the  nature  of,]  Prajapati,  subtile,  beauti- 
ful, by  its  own  energy  swallows  up  the  incomprehensible  Purusha  by  the 
incomprehensible,  Vayu  by  that  which  has  the  nature  of  Vayu,  soma  by 
that  which  has  the  nature  of  soma.""  To  him  the  destroyer,  the  great 
devourer,  be  adoration.  All  the  gods  reside  in  the  heart,  situated  in 
the  heart  and  the  breath.  Thou  who  art  continually  in  the  heart, 
[art]  the  three  letters,  but  he  is  beyond.  To  the  north  of  him  is  the 
head,  to  the  south  the  feet ;  that  which  is  the  north  is  the  omkara. 
The  omkara  is  the  pranava,  which  (pranava)  again  is  all-pervadiag, 
which  ('aU-pervading')  again  is  infinite,  which  again  is  that  which 
delivers,  which  again  is  subtile,  which  again  is  white,  which  again  has 
the  nature  of  lightning,  which  again  is  the  supreme  Brahma  :  thus  he 
is  the  one.  He  is  the  only  Eudra,  he  is  Isana,  he  is  divine,  he  is  Mahes- 
vara,  he  is  Mahadeva.  Now  whence  does  the  omkara  get  its  name? 
Inasmuch  as  so  soon  as  it  is  uttered,  it  raises  up  the  whole  body, 
it  is  called  omkara."  (The  same  inquiry  is  then  made  and  answered 
in  regard  to  the  words  'pranava,'  ' sarvavyapin '  ['all-pervading'], 
'ananta'  ['infinite']  the  'deliverer,'  'subtile,'  'white,'  'having  the 
nature  of  lightning,'  and  'the  supreme  Brahma.'  Then  'eka,'  'one,' 
is  explained.)  "Now  why  is  he  called  'one'?  He  who  evolves, 
creates,  variously  creates,  sustains  all  worlds,  is  therefore  called  the 

iM  Quoted  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  265.  According  to  the  commen- 
tator whom  I  have  quoted  under  the  text,  Soma  means  sa-\-uma,  he  who  dwells  with 
Uma,  in  the  form  of  divine  knowledge,  KatyayanT.  What  would  the  Vedio  rishi 
who  composed  the  verse  have  said  to  this  mystical  interpretation  ?  Such  explanations 
are  not,  however,  peculiar  to  the  adherents  of  any  one  religion. 

"┬╗  I  do  not  profess  to  understand  the  sense  of  this. 


FROM  THE  ATHARVAS'IEAS  tJPAJSTISHAD.  361 

'  one.'  'Now  why  is  he  called  the  one  Eudra  ?  '  There  is  only  one 
Eudra;  there  is  no  place. for  a  second.  He  rules  this  fourth  world, 
controlling  and  productive ;  living  beings  abide  within  him.  united 
with  him.  At  the  time  of  the  end  he  annihilates  all  worlds,  the 
protector.'  Wherefore  he  is  called  the  one  Eudra.  Then  why 
is  he  called  Isana?  He  it  is  who  rules  all  worlds  by  his  ordi- 
nances, and  supreme  creative  powers.  'We,  0  heroic  Indra,  like 
unmilked  cows,  approach  with  our  praises  thee  who  art  the  heavenly 
lord  (Isana)  of  this  moving,  and  the  lord  of  this  stationary,  [world]."' 
Hence  he  is  called  'Isana.'  ('Bhagavat'  is  then  explained.)  Then 
why  is  he  called  Mahe^vara  ?  He  who,  a  devourer,  constantly  devours, 
creates,  variously  creates,  sustains  all  worlds,  is  therefore  called  Mahe^- 
vara.  Then  why  is  he  called  Mahadeva?  He  who,  abandoning  all 
forms  of  being,  exults  in  the  great  divine  power  of  absorption  in  the 
knowledge  of  himself,  is  therefore  called  Mahadeva.  Such  is  the 
history  of  Eudra.  'This  god  [abides]  throughout  all  regions;  he 
was  the  first  born;  he  is  within  the  womb;  it  is  even  he  who  has 
been  born,  and  he  is  stiU  to  be  born ;  he  exists,  0  men,  pervading  all 
things,  with  his  face  turned  to  every  side.'  (Vaj.  S.  32,  4.)  '  The 
one  god,  who  has  on  every  side  eyes,  on  every  side  a  face,  on  every 
side  arms,  on  every  side  feet,  when  producing  the  earth  and  sky, 
fabricates  them  with  his  arms,  and  with  his  wings.'  "  (E.V.  x.  81,  3, 
above,  p.  6.)  ...  .  Eudra  is  mentioned  again  in  the  following  verses. 
"  In  Eudra  they  say  there  is  oneness,  and  that  Eudra  is  eternal  and 
primeval,"  etc.  The  Pai^upata  rite  is  thus  described:  "This  is  the 
Pasupata  observance;  'Agni  is  ashes,  Yayu  is  ashes,  water  is  ashes, 
dry  land  is  ashes,  the  sky  is  ashes,  all  this  is  ashes,  the  mind,  these 
eyes,  are  ashes.'  Having  taken  ashes  while  pronouncing  these  preced- 
ing words,  and  rubbing  himself,  let  a  man  touch  his  limbs.  This  is 
the  Pasupata  rite,  for  the  removal  of  the  animal  bonds.  The  Brahman 
who  reads  the  Atharva-sira  is  purified  with  fire,  with  air,  with  the 
sun,  with  soma  (or  the  moon);  he  becomes  truth,  he  becomes  all,  he 
has  bathed  in  all  the  holy  places,  he  is  read  in  all  the  Vedas,  he  has 
practised  the  observances  prescribed  in  all  the  Vedas,  he  is  known 
by  all  the  gods,  he  has  sacrificed  with  all  sacrificial  rites;  by  him 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  itihasas,  puranas,  and  Eudras  (formulas 
1"  E.T.  vii.  32,  22,  quoted  above,  p.  103. 


362  TEXTS  FEOM  THE  UPANISHADS 

relating  to  Kudra),  and  a  hundred  thousand  Gayatrls  have  heen 
muttered,  ten  thousand  0ms  have  heen  uttered;  at  every  recitation 
he  purifies  ten  generations  of  ancestors,  and  ten  future  generations  of 
descendants ;  he  purifies  a  row  of  men  as  far  as  the  eye  can  reach ; 
thus  says  the  divine  Atharva-^iras.  Having  muttered  it  once,  he 
hecomes  clean,  pure,  and  fit  for  the  ceremonial;  having  muttered  it 
a  second  time,  he  ohtains  dominion  over  hosts ;  having  muttered  it  a 
third  time,  he  enters  into  the  god :  Om,  [this  is]  true.  '  '  Adoration 
be  to  Eudra  Agni,  who  resides  in  fire,  and  in  the  waters,  who  has 
entered  into  these  plants,  who  formed  all  these  worlds.'  " 

I  shaE  not  make  more  than  a  few  further  extracts  from  this  mystical 
Upanishad,  which  throws  little  light  on  Eudra' s  character  or  history. 
The  three  gods,  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  Eudra,  are  mentioned  together, 
along  with  Indra  {^Brahma-  Vishnu-Mudrendrdh) ;  and  S'ambhu  (one  of 
the  names  of  Eudra)  is  said  (in  a  passage  which  I  need  not  attempt 
to  translate  at  length)  to  he  possessor  of  aU  divine  qualities, 
and  to  he  lord  of  all;  while  the  benefits  of  worshipping  him 
are  described  (Mramm  tu  dJiyeyah  sanaUvarya-sampannah  sarveivaras 
eha  Sambhuh  akdia-madhye  dhruvam  stahdhva  'dhikam  kshanam  eham 
kratuiatasydpi  chatuh-saptatya  yat  phalam  tad  avdpnoti  kritsnam  om- 
Tidragatam  cha  sarva-dhydna-yoga-jndndndm  yat  phalam  tad  omkara 
veda-para  lio  va  iiva  elco  dhyeyah  iivankarah  sarvam  anyat  pa/rityajya). 

In  the  Kaivalya  Upanishad  (translated  by  Prof.  Weber,  Ind.  Stud, 
ii.  10  ff.)  A^valayana  asks  Brahma  to  explain  to  him  the  science  of 
divine  things  {Athdhaldyano  Ihagavantam  parameshthinam  wpammetya 
WDdcha  adMM  Ihagavan  Irahma-vidydm  ityddi).  Brahma  {pitamaha) 
among  other  things  tells  him  as  follows :  Antydkrama-sthah  sakalendri- 
ydni  nvrudhya  Ihaktya  sva-gurum  prammya  \  hrit-pmdarlkam  mrajam 
msuddham  viehintya  madhye  viSadam  visokam  \  anantam  avyaktam 
aoMntya-rupam,  iivam  praidntam  amritam  hrahma-yonim  \  tarn  ddi- 
madhydnta-vihlnam  eharh  vihhum  chiddnanda-svarupam  adhhutam  |  Uma- 
sahdyam  paramehwram  prabhwm  trilochanam  nlla-kmtham  praidntam  \ 
dhydtvd  munir  gaohhati  hhuta-yonim  samasta-sdkshi'ffi  tumasah  parasidt  \ 
sa  Brahma  sa  S'ivah  Sendrah  so  'hharah  paramah  svardt  |  sa  eva  Vishnuh 
M  prdnah  sa  dtmd  parameivarah  "'  |  sa  eva  sarva^i  yad  hhutam  yaohcha 
hhavyam  sandtanam  |  jndtvd  tarn  mrityum  atyeti  ndnyah  panthd  vimuk- 
112  Another  MS.  has  here  Sa  kale  'gnih  sa  Chandramah. 


EELATING  TO  EUDEA.  363 

taye  |  .  .  ,  .  yah  iata/rudriyam  adhite  so  'gniputo  hhavati  sa  Vdyu- 
puto  hhweati  ityadi  |  "  A  maa  in  the  last  (or  fourth)  religious  order 
(i.e.  that  of  a  mendicant)  restraining  all  his  senses,  making  obeisance 
to  his  teacher,  meditating  within  on  the  lotus  of  the  heart,  [which  is] 
spotless,  pure,  lucid,  uadisturbed, Рђћ the  infinite,  undiscernible,  incon- 
ceivable, auspicious  {siva),  tranquil,  immortal,  source  of  Brahma,  [or, 
of  divine  knowledge], Рђћ contemplating  him  who  is  without  beginning, 
middle,  or  end,  the  one,  the  pervading,  the  spiritual  and  blessed,  the 
wonderful,  the  consort  of  Uma,  the  supreme  lord,  the  three-eyed,  the 
blue-throated,  the  tranquU, Рђћ [doing  this]  a  Muni,  [passing]  beyond 
darkness,  attains  the  source  of  being,  the  universal  witness.  He  is 
Brahma,  he  is  S'iva,  he  is  Indra,  he  is  undecaying,  supreme,  self- 
resplendent  ;  he  is  Vishnu,  he  is  breath,  he  is  the  spirit,  the  supreme 
lord ;  he  is  all  that  has  been  or  that  shall  be,  eternal.  Knowing  him, 
a  man  overpasses  death.  There  is  no  other  way  to  liberation." 
Further  on  it  is  said :  "  He  who  reads  the  S'atarudriya  becomes 
purified  by  fire,  purified  by  air,"  etc.,  etc. 

In  one  of  the  MS.  collections  of  Upanishads  belonging  to  the  library 
of  the  East  India  Office,  I  find  another  work  of  that  description,  called 
the  Nilarudropanishad,  which  begins  thus :  Apasyaih  eMvwrohantam 
divitah  prithivlmayah  \  apaiyam  apaiyam  tarn  Rudram  nilagrivam  Sikh- 
andinam  |  "I,  formed  of  earth,  beheld  descending  from  the  sky,  I 
beheld,  I  beheld,  that  blue-necked,  crested  Kudra."  This  composition 
contains  many  verses  from  the  S'atarudriya. 

Sect.  VI. Рђћ Some  fwrther  texts  from  the  Itihasas  and  Puranas  relative 

to  Budra. 

In  the  earlier  parts  of  this  work  I  have  given  a  variety  of  extracts 
from  the  Eamayana,  Mahabharata,  etc.,  which  exhibit  the  character  of 
Mahadeva  as  he  was  conceived  in  the  epic  period  (see  pp.  165,  176, 
178,  184-205,  223-228,  230-232,  240  f.,  266-273,  278-281,  282-289). 
I  shall  now  adduce  such  other  passages  from  the  Itihasas,  or  Puranas, 
as  may  appear  to  throw  any  light  on  the  history  of  the  conceptions 
entertained  of  this  d6ity,  and  of  his  relations  to  the  other  members 
of  the  Indian  pantheon. 

Eudra  is  briefly  alluded  to  in  the  passages  of  the  Eamayana  i.  1 4, 
Iff.;  i.  75,  14  ff. ;  and  Yuddha-Kanda,  119,  1  ff.,  quoted  in  pp.  165, 


364  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  EAMATANA 

176  f.,  and  178  ff.  The  other  texts  of  the  Eamayana  in  which  I  have 
observed  any  allusion  to  him  are  the  following;  and  the  representations 
which  are  there  given  of  this  god  bear  generally,  perhaps,  a  stamp  of 
greater  antiquity  than  those  which  are  found  in  the  Mahabharata. 

In  Eamayana  i.  23,  10  ff.  (ed.  Bombay),  Rudra  curses  the  embodied 
Kandarpa  (the  Indian  Cupid),  who  wished  to  enter  into  him  after  his 
marriage,  at  a  time  when  he  was  performing  austerity ;  and  Kandarpa 
in  consequence  becomes  bodiless  {manga).  {Kandarpo  murtiman  asit 
Kamah  ity  uchyate  ludhaih  \  ta^asyantam  iha  Sthanum  nimayena  sama- 
hitam  \  11.  KritoAvahcm  tu  deveiam  gaehhantam  sa-marud-ganam  \ 
dharshayamasa  dtirmedhdh  hunkrita^  cha  mahdtmand  |  12.  Avadhyd- 
taS  cha  Sudrena  eJiahhushd  Eag?i,unandana  \  vyakryanta  ^arirdt  svdt 
sarva-gdtrdni  durmateh  |  ) 

In  i.  35,  20  (Bombay  ed.),  it  is  mentioned  that  the  mountain-god, 
Himavat,  gave  his  daughter  Uma  to  the  "unequalled  Rudra"  [Budrdya 
apratirupdya).  In  chapter  xxxvii.  of  the  same  book,  vv.  5  ff.  the  con- 
nubial intercourse  of  S'iva  with  Uma  is  described  in  most  undignified 
language,  as  follows:  Purd  Rama  Ttritodmdhah  S'itikantho  mahdtapdh] 
6.  Drishtvd  cha  hhagavdn  devlm  maithundyopaohahrame  \  taaya  sarhkrl- 
damdnasya  Mahadevasya  dMmatah  \  Sitilcanthasya  devasya  divyam 
vwrsha-iatam  gatam  \  7.  Na  ehdpi  tanayo  Bdma  tasydm  dsit parantapa\ 
"Formerly,  after  his  marriage,  S'itikantha  (S'iva)  the  great  devotee, 
(6)  beholding  the  goddess,  began  to  indulge  in  connubial  love.  A 
thousand  years  of  the  gods  passed  while  the  wise  Mahadeva  S'itikantha 
was  thus  sporting.  But,  0  Rama,  vexer  of  thy  foes,  no  son  was  born  to 
Uma."  The  gods  being  alarmed  at  the  prospect  of  the  formidable  cha- 
racter of  the  offspring  which  might  be  born  to  Mahadeva,  entreated  him 
and  his  spouse  to  practise  chastity.  To  this  Mahadeva  consented;  but 
asked  what  would  become  of  the  seed  which  he  had  already  discharged. 
This,  the  gods  said,  should  be  received  by  the  earth.  The  gods  then 
desired  Agni,  along  with  Vayu,  to  enter  into  this  seed.  This  Agni  did, 
and  the  white  mountain  was  produced  in  consequence  (see  above,  p. 
354),  where  Karttikeya  was  born.  The  gods  then  worshipped  S'iva  and 
Uma,  but  the  latter  imprecated  sterility  on  all  their  wives.  The  thirty- 
seventh  section  relates  the  birth  of  Karttikeya.  While  Tryambaka 
(S'iva),  the  lord  of  the  gods,  was  performing  austerity,  the  other 
deities  went  to  Brahma  and  asked  for  a  general  in  the  room  of  Maha- 


HAVING  EEFERENCE  TO  EUDEA-MAHADEVA.  365 

deva,  who,  it  seems,  had  formerly  acted  in  that  capacity.  "He," 
they  said,  "whom  thou  didst  formerly  give  us  as  a  leader  of  our 
armies  (i.e.  Mahadeva),  is  now  performing  great  austerity,  along  with 
Uma"  (sect.  38,  v.  3,  Sohlegel's  ed.=Bect.  37,  3,  of  Bomhay  ed. : 
Yo  ┬Ф┬ФA"^  senapatir  deva  datto  Ihagwcatd  pwa  |  ┬Ф┬Ф  twpah  pa/ram 
Рќаasthdya  tapyate  sma  sdhomaya).  Brahma  says,  that  in  conseq^uenee 
of  the  curse  of  TJma,  no  son  could  be  born  to  any  of  the  wives  of  the 
gods ;  but  that  Agni  could  beget  a  son  on  the  river  Ganga,  who  should 
be  the  general  of  the  gods.  The  gods  accordingly  went  to  mount 
Kailasa,  and  appointed  Agni  to  effect  their  object.  Agni  accordingly 
impregnated  the  Ganga,  who  brought  forth  Karttikeya,  so  called  be- 
cause he  was  nursed  by  the  Krittikas." 

In  the  forty-second  section  it  is  related  how  the  royal  rishi  Bhagiratha 
performed  austerity  in  order  that  the  Ganga  might  descend  from  heaven 
and  purify  the  ashes  of  the  sons  of  Sagara  (who  had  been  destroyed 
by  Kapila,  sect.  40,  at  the  end);  and  might  by  this  means  elevate  them 
to  paradise.  Brahma  appeared  to  the  king  and  told  him  that  he  ought 
to  propitiate  Siva,  who  was  the  only  being  who  could  sustain  the 
shook  of  the  falling  Ganga.  Bhagiratha  (as  is  told  sect.  43)  continued 
his  austerities  till  S'iva  the  lord  of  Uma,  the  lord  of  animals  {Pasupati), 
appeared  to  him,  and  said  he  would  receive  the  Ganga  on  his  head.  He 
accordingly  mounted  the  Himalaya,  and  called  on  the  Ganga  to  descend. 
The  Ganga  was  indignant  at  this  summons,  and  came  down  in  great 
volume  and  with  great  force  on  his  head,  thinking  to  sweep  him  down 
along  with  her  into  Patala.  The  god,  however,  determined  to  humble 
her  pride,  and  she  was  compelled  to  circle  for  a  long  period  of  years 
in  the  labyrinth  of  his  matted  locks,  without  being  able  to  reach  the 
earth.  Being  again  propitiated  by  Bhagiratha,  S'iva  at  length  allowed 
her  to  reach  the  lake  Vindu,  to  flow  to  the  sea,  and  eventually  into 
the  infernal  regions,  where  she  purified  the  ashes  of  the  sons  of  Sagara 
and  enabled  them  to  ascend  to  heaven. 

In  the  forty-flfth  section  is  described  the  production  of  nectar  from 
the  churning  of  the  ocean  of  milk  by  the  rival  sons  of  Diti  and  Aditi, 
who  wished  to  obtain  some  specific  which  should  render  them  immortal. 
In  the  first  place,  however,  a  fiery  poison  was  vomited  from  the  mouths 

^"  To  nah  is  the  reading  of  Schlegel's  edition,  as  well  as  of  Gorresio's,  39,  3.  The 
Somhay  edition  reads  yena,  which  does  not  seem  so  good  a  reading. 


366  QUOTATIONS  FROM  THE  EAMATANA 

of  the  serpent  Vasuki,  who  was  used  as  the  rope  in  the  process  of  churn- 
ing.    The  gods  then  resorted  to  S'iva  to  deliver  them  from  this  portent: 

21.  Atha  devah  Mahadevam  S'aniara&  iarandrthinah  \  jagmuh  Paiu- 
patim  Rud/ram  trahi  trahlti  tushtuvuh  \  22.  M^am  uktas  tato  devoir 
deva-devekia/rah  prdbhm^  \  prdduraslt  tato  'traiva  iankha-ehahra-dharo 
Harih  \  23.  Uvachamam  smitafh  kritva  Rudram  iula-dhwram  Sarih  \ 
daivata/ir  mathyamane  tu  yat  purvam  samupasthitam  |  24.  Ted  Imadiyafh 
sn/ra-^reshtha  swranam,  agrato  hi  yat  |  agra-pujam  iha  sthitvd  grihdnedam 
vuham prabho  |  25.  Ity  uktvd  cha  sura-sresJithas  tatraivdntaradhiyata  \ 
devatdndm  bhayam  drishtvd  sruivd  vdhyam,  tu  S'drnginah  \  26.  Haldhalam 
viaJiam  ghoram  sanjagrdhdmritopamam  [  devdn  visrijya  deveio  jagdma 
bhagewdn  Sarah  |  21.  "Then  the  deities,  seeking  as  their  refuge  Maha- 
deva,  Sknkara,  went  to  Eudra  Pa^upati,  and  landed  him  [calling  out] 
'  deliver,  deliver.'  22.  Then,  being  addressed  by  the  gods,  the  lord 
of  the  gods,  Hari,  appeared  on  that  very  spot,  bearing  the  shell 
and  the  discus,  (23)  and  smiling,  said  to  Eudra,  the  wielder  of  the 
trident:  'That  which  has  first  appeared,  when  the  ocean  was  being 
churned  by  the  deities,  (24)  belongs  to  thee,  most  eminent  of  the 
gods,  since  thou  art  at  the  head  of  them.  Standing  here,  receive, 
lord,  this  poison  as  the  earliest  offering'.'  25.  Having  thus  spoken, 
the  most  eminent  of 'the  gods  disappeared  on  the  spot.  Perceiving 
the  alarm  of  the  deities,  and  having  heard  the  words  of  Vishnu, 
(26)  he  (S'iva)  took  the  deadly  poison,  as  if  it  had  been  nectar.  The 
divine  Hara  then  dismissed  the  gods  and  departed." 

The  gods  and  Asuras  proceeded  with  the  churning,  but  were  obliged 
now  to  call  in  the  aid  of  Vishnu,  as  the  mountain  with  which  the 
operation  was  being  performed  sank  down  into  the  infernal  regions. 
Vishnu,  however,  assumed  the  form  of  a  tortoise,  and  supported  the 
mountain  on  his  back.  At  length  nectar  was  produced,  which  Vishnu 
carried  off. 

In  the  description  of  the  northern  region  contained  in  the  Kish- 
kindha"''  kanda  of  the  Eamayana,  KaUasa  is  spoken  of  as  the  resi- 
dence of  Kuvera,  and  no  mention  is  made  of  S'iva  as  residing  there :  "* 

Kishk.  44,  27  ff.  (ed.  (Jorresio  =  Bombay  ed.  43,  20  i.).РђћTam  tu 

1"  In  the  Bombay  edition  this  word  is  written  '  Kishkindha,'  -without  a  y  before 
the  final  5,  which  it  has  in  Gorresio's  edition. 

'^5  See,  however,  the  passage  from  the  Sundara  Kanda,  sect.  89,  which  will  be 
quoted  in  the  Appendix,  where  Mahadeva  is  said  to  visit  Kuvera,  or  mount  Kailasa. 


EEGAEDING  MAHABEVA  OR  BEAHMA.  367 

sighram  atihramya  kdntaram  loma-hccrahanam  |  pdndura^  drakshyatha 
tatah  Kaildsam  ndma  parvatam  \  iatra  pdndwra-meghabhafh  Jdmbunada- 
parishkritam  \  Kuvera-ihavanam  ddvyam  mrmita0t  Viivakarmand  \ 
"  Having  quickly  passed  over  that  dreadful  desert,  you  shall  then  see 
the  white  mountain,  called  Kailasa,  and  there  the  celestial  palace  of 
Kuvera,  formed  by  Visvakarman,  in  colour  like  a  briUiant  cloud,  and 
decorated  with  gold." 

The  Bombay  edition,  43,  54  ff.,  has  the  following  lines,  in  which 
Eudra  may  be  referred  to:  Tarn  atihramya  iailendram  utta/ras 
toyasdm  nidhih  |  tatra  Somagirir  ndma  madhye  hemamayo  mahdn  |  55. 
Sa  tu  deio  visuryo  'pi  tasya  bhdsd  prakasate  |  surya-lalcshmyd  'hhivijneyo 
tapateva  Vivasvata  |  56.  Bhagavdms  tatra  vihdtmd  S'ambhur  ekdda^dt- 
makah  \  Brahma  vasati  deveio  hrahmarshi-parivdritah  "┬░  |  54.  "  Beyond 
this  monarch  of  mountains  is  the  northern  ocean,  in  the  midst  of 
which  stands  the  great  golden  mountain,  called  Somagiri.  55.  With 
its  lustre  that  region,  although  sunless,  shines;  and  is  distinguished 
by  a  solar  splendour,  as  if  from  the  beams  of  Vivasvat  (the  sun). 
56.  There  the  divine  soul  of  the  universe,  the  eleven-fold  S'ambhu, 
Brahma,  lord  of  the  gods,  dwells,  attended  by  the  Brahman  Rishis." 

In  Gorresio's  edition  (44,  117  ff)  this  passage  shows  a  number  of 
various  readings :  Kurums  tan  samatikramya  uttare  payasdm  nidhih  | 
tatra  Somagirir  ndma  Mranmaya-samo  mahdn  \  118.  Indra-Ioka-gatdh 
ye  cha  Brahma-loka-gatds  cha  ye  \  sarve  te  sammaikshanta  girirdjafh 
di/oam  gatah  |  119.  Asuryo  'pi  hi  deiah  sa  tasya  hhdsa  praTcdiate  \ 
sasuryah  iva  lahshmwdms  tapativa  divdka/re  |  120.  Bhagavdms  tatra 
hhutdtmd  Svayamhhur  bahudhdtmakah  |  Brahmd  Iha/vati  vasydtmd 
sarvdtmd  sarva-hhdvanah  |  117.  "Beyond,  to  the  north  of  the  Uttara 
Kurus,  is  an  ocean,  in  which  is  a  great  mountain,  as  it  were  of  gold. 
118.  All  those  who  have  gone  to  the  sky,  to  the  world  of  Indra,  or 
to  that  of  Brahma,  have  beheld  the  king  of  mountains.     119.  By  its 

1^'  The  commentator  thus  explains  this  verse :  Viavam  atati  vyapnoti  iti  msvatmS 
vyapaMs  Una  Vishnu-rupah  |  vishnu-vyaptav  ity  anusarat  |  sa  eva  S'ambhulf  iam 
bhmaty  asmat  \  sa  eva  ekadasatmakah  ekadasanwiakarthaikadasa-rudratmakah  |  sa 
eva  Brahma  brimhanatvat  jagat-srashtritvat  |  "  Visvatma  means,  he  who  pervades 
all  things ;,  and  consequently  he  is  in  the  form  of  Vishnu,  as  Vishnu  has  the  sense 
of  pervader.  The  same  being  is  S'ambhu,  he  from  whom  prosperity  [sam)  arises 
{bhavati) ;  and  he  is  also  elevenfold,  in  the  form  of  the  eleven  Eudras,  who  signify 

eleven  repetitions  of  him  (P).    The  same  being  is  also  Brahma,  from  his  increasing, 

creating  the  world." 


368         TEXT  FROM  THE  EAMATANA  REaARDING  RTJDEA. 

light  that  region  shines,  although  sunless,  as  if  it  had  a  sun,  and  re- 
splendent as  if  the  lord  of  day  were  blazing.  120.  There  the  divine 
soul  of  beings,  Svayambhu,  Brahma,  dwells,  self-subdued,  the  soul, 
and  producer  of  all  things."  Here  there  is  no  reference  to  Mahadeva, 
Svayambhu  being  substituted  for  S'ambhu. 

Another  passage  relating  to  Rudra  which  occurs  in  Gorresio's  recen- 
sion of  the  Eamayana  is  the  following  (though  it  is  not  to  be  found  in 
the  corresponding  section  of  the  Bombay  edition)  : 

Kishk.  44,  46  ff. Рђћ Tarn  tu  desam  atihramya  TrUringo  n&ma  parvatah  \ 
tasya  pdde  saro  dwyam  mahat  Mnchana-pushharam  \  tatah  praehymate 
divya  tlkshna-irotas  ta/ranginl  |  nadl  naika-grahahlrna  kutila  hka-hhd- 
vini  I  tasyaikam  kdnelianam  sringam  panatasyagni-sannibham  \  vaidurya- 
mayam  ehancha  Sailasyasya  samuchhritam  \  Anutpanneshu  hhuteshu  ha- 
hhuva  Mia  hhumitah  \  agrajah  sarva-hhutanam  VUvakarmeti  visrutah  \ 
tat  tasya  kila  pauranam  agmkotram  mahatmanah  \  asit  trisikharah  iailah 
proBrittds  tatra  ye  'gnayah  \  tatra  sarvdni  hhutdni  sarvamedhe  mahd- 
malche  \  kritvd  'bhavad  mahdtejdh  sarva-loka-maheharah  \  Rudrasya  kila 
samdhdnam  saro  vai  sdrvamedhikam  \  tatah  pravrittd  Sa/rayur  ghora- 
nakrmatl  nadi  \  deva-gandha/rva-patagdh  pUdohoraga-ddnavdh  \  pravi- 
ianti  na  tarn  desam  pradiptam  iva  pdvakam  \  tarn  atikramya  sailendram 
MahddevdlMpdlitam  \  ityddi  |  "When  that  region  has  been  overpassed, 
a  mountain  called  Trisringa  [will  be  seen],  at  the  foot  of  which  is  a 
divine  lake,  of  large  dimensions,  filled  with  golden  lotuses.  Thence 
flows  a  divine  biUowy  river,  with  rapid  stream,  swarming  with  croco- 
diles, winding,  gladdening  the  world.  That  mountain  has  one  golden 
peak,  [one]  resembling  fire,  and  it  has  also  one  elevated  point  formed  of 
lapis  lazuli.  When  no  creatures  had  as  yet  come  into  existence,  there 
sprang  from  the  earth  the  first  of  all  beings,  known  as  Visvakarman. 
This  triple-peaked  mountain  was  the  scene  of  the  ancient  Agnihotra 
sacrifice  of  that  great  being,  where  all  the  fires  were  employed. 
Having  formed  all  beings  there  at  this  great  universal  sacrifice,  he 
became  the  mighty  lord  {mahesvara)  of  all  worlds.  This  lake  of  the 
universal  sacrifice  is  the  abode  of  Eudra ;  and  from  it  issues  the  river 
Sarayu,  abounding  in  dreadful  crocodiles.  Gods,  Gandharvas,  birds, 
Pi^achas,  snakes,  and  Danavas,  do  not  enter  that  region,  which  is  like 
blazing  fire.  Having  overpassed  that  great  mountain,  protected  by 
Mahadeva,"  etc. 


SACEIFICE  OF  VIS'VAKARMAN  BHAUVANA.  369 

In  regard  to  the  story  of  Visvakarman,  which  is  not  usually  met 
Рђбwith  in  the  Puranas,  and  does  not  harmonize  well  with  the  course 
of  their  cosmogony,  compare  the  two  hymns  in  pp.  5  S.,  the  story 
from  the  Nirukta  in  p.  9,  above,  and  the  S'atap.  Br.  xiii.  7,  1,  14. 

S'atapatha  Brahmana,  xiii.  7,  1, 14. Рђћ Tena  ha  etena  Vihaka/rma  Bhau- 
vanah  ye  \  teneshtvd  Hyatishthat  sarvani  ihatani  idam  sarvam  abhmat  \ 
atitishthati  sarvdni  Ihutdni  idam  sarvam  Ihavati  yah  evam  vidvdn  sarva- 
medhena  yajate  yo  va  etad  evam  veda  |  15.  Tarn  ha  Kaiywpo  ydjaydncha- 
Icdra  I  tad  api  Bhum,ih  Uohamjagau  \  "na  ma  ma/rtyah  ha&chcma  ddtum 
arhati  Visvakarman  Bhauvana  mandah  dsitha  \  upamanhshyati  syd  salil- 
asya  madhye  mrishaisha  te  sangdrah  Kasyapdya "  iti  \  "  With  this 
sacrifice,  Visvakarman,  the  son  of  Bhuvana,  sacrificed.  Having  sacri- 
ficed with  it,  he  overpassed  all  beings,  and  became  all  this.  That  man 
overpasses  all  beings  and  becomes  aU  this,  who,  knowing  this,  sacrifices 
with  the  Sarva-medha  ('universal  sacrifice'),  or  he  who  thus  knows  this. 
15.  Kasyapa  performed  this  sacrifice  for  him.  Wherefore  also  the  Earth 
recited  a  verse:'"  'No  mortal  ought  to  bestow  me.  Visvakarman,  son 
of  Bhuvana,  thou  wast  foolish.  She  (the  earth)  wiU  sink  into  the 
midst  of  the  water.     This  promise  of  thine  to  Kasyapa  is  vain.'  " 

It  would  appear  as  if  the  author  of  the  preceding  passage  of  the 
Hamayana  intended  to  identify  Kudra  with  Visvakarman,  when  he  says 
that  the  latter  "became  the  mighty  lord  {mahehara)  of  all  worlds." 
Compare  the  passages  from  the  Kurma  Purana  and  Mahabharata 
quoted  below  in  notes  131  and  133,  pp.  376  and  377;  and  Mahabharata, 
S'antip.  241,  quoted  in  a  note  to  p.  372,  vol.  v.,  of  this  work.  If  Maha- 
deva  is  identified  with  ViSvakarman,  he  must,  according  to  the  Eama- 

'"  The  commentator  observes  on  this:  Asmai  cha  Visvaharma  ihumim  datum 
iyesha  tatra  cha  kale  Bhumir  api  imam  iloliam  gltavati  \  tmm  tu  mandah  manda-  ' 
matir  janali  asitha  babhuvitha  jatah  ity  artha^  |  ttpa-sabdo  ni-aabdasya  nrthe  |  yaa 
cha  asakyam pratijaritte  mandah  ity  abhiprayah  \  "Visvakarman  desired  to  give  the 
earth  to  him ;  and  at  that  time  the  Earth  also  sang  ihis  verse.  Thou  wast  '  dull,' 
dull  of  understanding.  The  preposition  upa  is  here  used  in  the  sense  of  ni.  And 
the  sense  is  that  he  who  promises  vfhat  is  impossible  is  foolish."  Compare  the 
passage  of  the  Mahabharata,  Vana-parvan,  v.  10209  (in  the  first  vol.  of  this  work, 
p.  451),  where  the  earth  is  said  to  have  been  given  to  Kas'yapa  by  Paras'urama  Рђб  and 
another"text  from  the  Anus'asana-parvan,  vv.  7232  S.  {ibid.  p.  464),  where  the  earth 
is  said  to  have  become  offended  with  king  Anga,  who  desired  to  bestow  her  on  the 
Brahmans,  and  to  have  in  consequence  abandoned  her  form,  Kas'yapa  afterwards 
entered  into  her,  and  she  became  his  daughter.  Compare  also  S'atapatha  Brahmana 
vii.  4,  3,  5  (quoted  above,  p.  27). 

VOL.  IV.  24 


370  MAHADEVA  AND  KtJVERA  ON  MOUNT  KAILASA. 

yana  and  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  be  regarded  as  sprung  from  the  earth, 
or  Bhuvana,  and  therefore  not  eternal.  It  is  to  be  noted,  however, 
that  the  S'atap.  Br.  speaks  of  this  Visvakarman  as  a  mortal,  and  the 
Ait.  Br.  speaks  of  him  as  a  prince  who  conquered  the  earth. 

In  the  next  passage"'  Mahadeva  is  represented  as  visiting  Kuvera  on 
Mount  Kailasa,  and  as  acknowledging  the  divinity  of  Eama: 

Bam.  (ed.  Gorresio)  t.  89,  6  ff. Рђћ Atha  praihano  dharmatma  lokdnSm 
iharah  prahhuh  \  tatah  sabhayam  devasya  rajno  Vaiira/vanasya  sah  | 
dhanadJiydksha-adbhaih  devah  prapto  hi  Frishhahha-dhvajah  |  Uma- 
aahayo  deveso  ganaU  cha  lahuhhir  vritah  |  avatirya  vrisJidt  turmm 
mahitah  iula-dhrig  vihhuh  \  gires  tasya  mahatejah  pravishtas  tu  sabham 
Sarah  \  Riddhyd  sahaya-yuktai  cha  tatha  Yaikravamh  svayam  \  anyonyam 
iau  scmalingya  upavishtav  uhhav  api  |  sabhayam  tatra  tau  devau  te  cha 
devah  yathakramam  \  upavishtdh  ganak  chaiva  Takshdi  cha  saha  Ghihya- 
Icaih  I  aksha-dyutam  tatas  tahhydm  pravrittam  samanantaram  \  etasminn 
antare  tatra  Hdhhasendram  Fibhuhanam  |  drishtvd  Pauladyam  dydntam 
Sivah  praha  dhanesva/ram  \  a/yam  Tibhwhamh  praptah  iaranam  tava 
pdrthiva  \  manyund  ^hiphtto  viro  Edkshasendra-vimdnitah  \  ityddi  | 

"Now  the  righteous  and  mighty  ruler  of  the  worlds,  whose  banner 
is  a  bull,  the  god  of  gods,  accompanied  by  Uma,  and  attended  by 
numerous  hosts,  came  then  to  the  assembly  of  the  divine  king  Vais- 
ravana  (Kuvera),  the  lord  of  riches.  Alighting  quickly  from  his  bull, 
Sara,  the  mighty  lord,  the  wielder  of  the  trident,  being  received  with 
honour,  entered  into  the  assembly  on  that  mountain  (Kailasa,  v.  4); 
and  at  the  same  time  Vaisravana  himself,  with  Riddhi  (his  wife),"' 
and  attended  by  his  companions,  [came  in].  Having  embraced  each 
other,  those  two  gods  with  the  other  deities  sat  down  in  order  in  the 
assembly,  together  with  their  hosts,  and  the  Takshas  and  Guhyakas. 
The  two  gods  then  began  to  play  at  dice.  In  the  mean  time,  beholding 
the  eminent  Eakshasa  VibhTshana,  the  son  of  Pulastya,  approaching, 
S'iva  says  to  the  lord  of  riches,  '  This,  0  king,  is  the  hero  Vibhishana, 
who  has  resorted  to  thee,  overwhelmed  by  distress,  having  been  dis- 
honoured by  the  chief  of  the  Bakshasas  (Eavana),'"  etc.,  etc. 

"While  S'iva  is  speaking,  Vibhishana  arrives,  and  bows  down  before 

1"  This  passage,  however,  is  only  to  be  found  in  Gbrresio's  recension,  and  not  in 
the  section  of  the  DevanagarT  recension  which  corresponds  to  it Рђћ viz.  vi.  17,  1,  ff. 

'"  See  Bbhtlingk  and  Both,  s.┬Ф).  Riddhi,  and  the  Mahatharata,  Asus'Ssana-parvan, 
675,  and  7637,  as  well  as  the  Harivafii^a,  7167,  7739,  the're  referred  to. 


PASSAGES  OF  THE  lOMATAUA.  ABOUT  MAHADEVA.         371 

ithe  deities,  -who  tell  him'to  stand  up,;  and  go  to  Eama,  who  will  install 

him  king  of  the  Eakshasas  (vr.  21  ff.).     Yibhishana  stands,  with  his 

head  bent  downwards,  and  sunk  in  contemplation,  when  S'iva  again 

fipeaks  to  him  (vt.  37  ff.)"  Tam  dhyayamanam  Ihagman  .uvacha  prabhwr 

avyayah  \  uitishthotiishtha  rdjendra  sulcham  'S^nuhi  sasvatam  \ 

39.  Tasmad  uttisktha  gaehha  tvam  purdnam  prdbhum  avyayam  |  adharam 

sarvahhutdndm  iaivatam  nirwoagraham  |  sa  hi  sarva-nidhdnam  cha  gatir 

gatimatdrh  varah  \  kritsnasya  jagato  mulam  tasmad gaohhasna  Sdghavam] 

"  The  di-vine,  imperishable  lord  said:  'Stand  up,  stand  up,  prince  of 

kings,  obtain  ever-during  happiness Stand  up,  therefore,  go 

to  the  ancient,  imperishable  lord,  the  support  of  all  beings,  eternal, 

uncontrolled.     For  he,  the  most  excellent,  contains  all  things,  and  is 

the  refuge  of  all  who  seek  a  refuge,  the  root  of  the  whole  world:: 

wherefore  go  to  Raghava  (Rama).' "    Yibhishana  then  departs  through 

the  air,  to  go  to  Eama."┬░ 

Рђб*"  In  the  following  passages  some  of  Mahadeva's  achievements  are  alluded  to : Рђћ 
iii.  30, 27  (ed.  Bomb.),  and  iii.  35,  93  (Gorr.) ;  Sapapata  Kharo  bhumcm  dahyamanah 
iaragnina  |  Mudreneva  vinirdagdhah  S'vetaranye  pura  'ndhahah  \  "  [The  Rakshasa] 
Khara  fell  on  the  ground,  burnt  by  the  fire  of  the  arrow,  like  Andhaka  [who  was] 
formerly  eonsumed  by  Eudra  in  the  S'veta  forest."  (Compare  A.  V.  xi.  2,  7,  above, 
pp.  334,  336,  where  Rudra  is  called  the  slayer  of  Ardhaka.)  iv.  5,  30  (Gorr.) :  Yatha 
kruddhasya  Rudrasya  Tripuram  vai  vijigyushah  \  "  [The  frowning  face  of  Rama] 
Uk-e  that  of  the  incensed  Rudra,  who  had  conquered  Tripura."  vi.  61,  17  (Gorr.) : 
"The  Rakshasa  trembled  when  smitten  by  Lakshmana's  arrow,  like  the  dreadful  portal 
of  Tripura,  when  struck  by  the  bolt  of  Rudra"  {JRudra-vanS/iatam  ghoram  yatha 
Tripura-gopuram).  In  the  following  verse  allusion  is  made  to  Rudra  as  a  slaughterer 
of  animals:  vi.  73,  37  f.  (Gorr.=Bombay  ed.  vi.  94,  35).  Satair  asvaih  padatais  cha 
tad  babhuva  rarMJiram\3kr7diih  iva  Budrasya  hrtiddhasya  nighmatah paiim  \  "'With 
slain  horses  and  footmen,  that  battle-field  became  like  the  garden  of  the  enraged  Rudra 
when  slaughtering  animals."  I  do  not  know  what  the  next  verse  refers  to,  vi.  56,  88 
(Gorr.) :  Kumbhasya  patato  rupam  bhagnasyarasi  mushtina  \  Is'varenabhipannasya 
rupam  Faeupaier  iva  \  "The  appearance  of  Kumbha  when  shattered  on  the  chest  by 
the  fist  of  Sugriva,  was  like  the  appearance  of  Pas'upati  (S'iva)  when  overcome  by 
Is'vara."  The  commentator  quoted  by  Gorresio  has  the  following  note  in  explanation: 
livarenapralaya-kakna  hetima  abhipannasya  lokan  abhiarastasya  Pasupateh  Eudra- 
$ya  rupam  .iva  Tupam  babhuva  ity  arthah  \  The  Bomb.  ed.  (76,  93)  reads  in  the 
second  line:  babhau  Rudrabhipamnanya  lyatha  rupam  Gavampate^  \  which  the  com- 
mentator renders,  "appeared  like  the  form  of  the  lord  of  rays  (the  sun),  overcome  by 
Rudra"  {Rudrena  abhipannasya  abhibhutasya  Gavampateh  Suryasya  iva.)  It  would 
Рќаalmost  seem  (strange'as  it  may  appear)  as  if  the  author  of  the  recension  of  the  Ramayana 
published  by  Gorresio,  had  not  understood  the  word  Gavampati  (lord  of  cows  or  rays) 
.as  designating  the  sun,  when  he  took  it  for  the  equivalent  of  Pas'upati.  Is'vara 
^nd  Pas'upati  are  both  names  of  Rudra ;  and  he  could  not  be  assailed  by  himself. 
Gavampati  occurs  in  the  hymn  to  the  Sun  in  iihe  Mahabharat^,  iii.  192  (as  quoted  by 
Bohtlingk  and  Roth,  ┬Ф.┬╗.),  as  one  of  the  numerous  names  or  epithets  of  the  Sun. 


372  TEXTS  FROM  EAMAYANA  AKD  MAHABHAEATA 

From  the  passages  quoted  above  from  the  Mahabharata  and  Brahmanas 
in  p.  284,  and  pp.  200  and  202,  note,  it  appears  as  if  some  contest  had 
at  one  time  existed  between  the  votaries  of  Mahadeva,  and  those  of 
other  deities,  in  regard  to  adoration  of  the  former.  It  may  perhaps  be 
inferred  from  the  passages  cited  in  pp.  288-291,  also,  that  the  worship 
of  this  god,  as  practised  by  some  tribes,  was  regarded  by  others  with 
aversion,  or  even  with  horror.  Some  further  indications  of  this  aversion 
may  be  discovered  in  the  myth  of  Daksha's  sacrifice,  as  related  in  the 
Mahabharata,  and  in  the  Vayu  and  other  Puranas  (see  Wilson's  Vishnu 
Purana,  pp.  61  ff.=pp.  120  S.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.,  vol.  i.). 

This  story  is  told,  perhaps  in  its  simplest  form,  in  the  following 
passage  of  the  Bamayana,  i.  66,  7  ff.  (ed.  Schlegel  and  Bombay= 
68,  7  ff.  Gorresio) : 

M)am  uktas  tu  Janakah  pratyuvdoha  mahamunim  \  sruyatam  asya 
dhanusho  yad-a/rtham  iha  tishthati  \  Bevardtah  iti  khydto  Nimeh  shashtho 
{jyeshtho,  Bomb,  ed.)  mahipatih  \  nydso  'yaih  tasya  hhagman  haste  datto 
mahatmanah  |  Baksha-y<yna-ladhe  purvam,  dhanur  dyamya  viryavdn  \ 
vidhvasya  tridasdn  Rudrah  salilam  idam  ahravii  \  "yasmdd  hhagdrthino^^^ 
Ihdgdn  nakalpayata  me  surah  \  imrangani  \_=siramsi,  Comm.  in  Bomb. 
ed.3  maharhani  dhanusha  idtaydmi  vah  \  tato  vimanasah  sane  devah  vai 
muni-pimga/oa  \  prdsddayanta  deveiam  teshdm  prito  'hhavad  Bhavah  \ 
pritaichdpi  dada/u  tesham  tdny  angdni  mahaujasdm  \  dhanusha  ydni  ydny 
dsan  idtitani  mdhdtmand  |  tad  etad  deva-devasya  dhanu-ratnam  mahat- 
manah I  nydsa-hhutam  tadd  nyastam  asmdlcam,  purvake  vilho  \  ""^ 

"Janaka,  being  thus  addressed,  replied  to  the  great  muni:  'Hear, 
regarding  this  bow,  from  what  cause  it  is  here.  A  king  called  Deva- 
rata  was  the  sixth  in  descent  from  Mrai.  This  [bow]  was  a  deposit 
committed  to  the  hands  of  this  great  personage.  Formerly,  at  the 
destruction  of  Daksha's  sacrifice,  the  heroic  Kudra,  when  he  had  drawn 
this  bow,  and  routed  the  gods,  thus  spake  in  derision:  "Since,  ye  gods, 
ye  have  divided  to  me  no  portion,  though  I  desired  it,  I  cut  off  your 
most  precious  heads  with  my  bow."     Then  all  the  deities,  being  dis- 

i'"  Smshtakrid-adi-yajna-bhSgarthino  mama  \  "  To  me  who  desired  a  share  in  the 
Svishtakrid,  etc.,  offering." Рђћ Comm. 

12^  This  last  line  runs  as  follows  in  Gorresio's  edition  (oh.  Ixviii.  13) :  Tishthati/ 
adydpi  hhagman  kule  'smaham  supujitam  |  The  other  various  readings,  though 
numerous,  are  unimportant. 


ABOUT  DAKSHA'S  SACRIFICE.  373 

tressed,  propitiated  the  god  of  gods,  who  heoame  favourable  to  them, 
and  restored  the  limbs  of  those  glorious  beings  which  had  been  cut  off 
by  the  mighty  bow.  This  is  the  precious  bow  of  the  great  deity, 
which  was  at  that  time  deposited  with  our  ancestor.'  " 

In  this  version  of  the  myth  there  is  no  mention,  of  Eudra  com- 
missioning Virabhadra,  or  any  other  demons,  to  destroy  the  sacrifice  or 
put  the  gods  to  flight.  He  is  simply  said  to  wound  the  gods  with  his 
bow."^ 

The  same  story  is  told  in  the  Sauptika-parvan,  vv.  786-8-08,  and 
in  greater  detail  in  the  S'anti-parvan,  of  the  Mahabharata,  in  verses 
10226-10258,  and  is  immediately  afterwards  repeated  in  vv.  10275  ff. 
According  to  the  first  account  (which  is  given  in  answer  to  a  question 
regarding  the  origin  of  Jvara,  Fever),  IJma,  S'iva's  wife,  seeing  the 
gods  passing  by  in  chariots,  inquires  of  her  husband  where  they  are 
going,  and  is  told  by  him  that  they  are  proceeding  to  Daksha's  horse- 
saorifloe.  The  goddess  then  asks  why  her  lord  also  does  not  go.  He 
repKes :  Surmr  eva  mahahhage  purvam  etad  anushthitam  |  yajneshu 
sa/rveshu  mama  na  Vhagah  upakalpitah  \  purvopayopapannena  margena 
varavarnini  \  na  me  surah  prayaehhanti  lhaga&  y<ynasya  dJiarmatah  *"  ( 


'2*  This  same  story  is  again  briefly  alluded  to  in  the  following  other  passages 
of  the  Eamayana; Рђћ iii.  30,  36  (ed.  Gorr.  =Bomb.  ed.  iii.  24,  35):  Tarn  drishpa 
tejasa  yuktam  mvyathur  vana-devatah  \  Dahshasyeva  Jcratum  hantum  udyatastram 
FinaMnam  \  "  Beholding  him  (Eama),  possessed  of  might,  the  sylvan'  deities  were 
distressed,  as  if  he  had  been  Pinakin  (S'iva)  with  his  weapon  ready  tc  destroy  the 
sacrifice  of  Daksha."  Ibid.  70,  2 :  Santu-kammn  paium  Eudram  krtiddham  Daksha- 
kratau  yathS,  \  "Like  the  incensed  Eudra  who  sought  to  slay  the  victim  at  the  sacri- 
fice of  Daksha."  (The  Bomb.  ed.  iii.  65,  2,  has  a  quite  different  reading :  Dagdhu- 
kamam  jagat  sarvcm  yugante  cha  yatha  Saram  \  "  Like  Hara  [Eudra]  desirous 
of  burning  up  the  whole  world  at  the  end  of  the  Tuga.")  And  again,  vi  64,  33  (ed. 
Gorr.) :  Tato  viapKdrayamasa  Ramas  tad  dhcmur  uttamam  \  bhagavan  iva  sankruddho 
Bha/sah  kratti-jighamsaya  \  "Then  Eama  stretched  that  excellent  bow,  like  the 
divine  Bhara  enraged,  and  seeking  to  destroy  the  sacrifice."  Eudra's  followers  are, 
however,  mentioned  in  the  Eamayana.  Thus  in  iii.  31,  10  (ed.  Gorr.)  it  is  said : 
Sa  taih  parivrito  ghoraih  rakshasair  nri-vardtmajah  \  Mahaderah  pitri-vane  ganaih 
parsva-gatair  iva  \  "  This  son  of  an  eminent  man  (Eama)  was  surrounded  by  these 
horrible  Eakshasas,  like  Mahadeva  by  his  attendant  hosts  in  a  cemetery."  (Instead 
of  the  last  line  the  Bomb.  ed.  has  the  following,  ui.  25,  12  :  Tithishv  iva  Mahadevo 
vritah  parishadam  ganaih.)  And  in  another  place  (v.  12,  39,  ed.  Gorr.)  S'iva  is 
called  the  lord  of  demons  {griham  Shatapater  iva). 

'2*  The  same  words  nearly  are  put  into  the  mouth  of  Mahadeva  in  the  Vayu- 
purana.    See  Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  i.,  p.  126,  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed. 


374  STOEY  QT"  DAKSHA'S  SAGEIFICE 

"  The  former  practice'  of  ffie  gods  has  been,  that  in  all  sacrifi'ces  no 
portion  should  be  divided  to  me.  By  custom,  established  by  the  earliest 
arrangement,  the  gods  lawfully  {dhwrmatah)  allot  me  no  share  in  the 
sacrifice."  Uma  is  extremely  chagrined  that  her  husband,  a  god  of 
so  great  dignity,  should  be  so  treated.  Perceiving  his  wife's  distress, 
S'iva  goes,  with  his  attendants,  and  puts  an  end  to  the  sacrifice.  The 
sacrifice  takes  the  form  of  a  deer,  and  is  followed  by  S'iva  to  the  sky. 
A  drop  of  sweat  falls  from  his  forehead,  from  which  a  fire  proceeds, 
out  of  which  again  a  formidable  being  is  born,  Jvara  (fever),  which 
burns  up  the  sacrifice,  puts  the  gods  to  flight,  etc.  On  this  Brahma 
appears  to.  Siva,  and  promises  that  the  gods  shall  henceforth  give  him 
a  share  in  the  sacrifice  {bhavato  'hi  surah  sarve  Ihdgam  dasyanti  mi 
prabho),  and  proposes  that  Jvara  (fever)  shall  be  allowed  to  range  over 
the  earth.  S'iva  is  propitiated,  and  assents  to  Brahma's  proposal,  and 
has  ever  afterwards  obtained  a  share  in  the  sacrifice  {ity  ukto  Brahmana 
devo  IMge  ch&pi  prakalpHe  \  hhagavardam.  tathety  aha  ....  pa/raneha 
prltim  agamad  ntsmayamseha  Pinaka-dhrik  \  mapa  cha  tada  hhagam. 
yathoktam  Brahmana  Bhavah). 

The  second  version  of  the  story  is  as  foUows :  vv.  10272  ff.  Daksha 
formerly  commenced  a  sacrifice  at  Gangadvara  in  the  Himalaya,  which 
was  attended  by  the  various  orders  of  divine  beings,  including  Indta 
and  Brahma.  Dadhlchi,  however,  a  votary  of  Eudra,  was  indignant 
that  no  worship  was  to  be  ofi'ered  to  that  deity.  10283  ff.  Tan 
drishtva  manytma  "visMo  BadMchir  ndkydm  abrmit  |  "ndyaA  yaj'iio  na 
vd  dharmo  yatra  Rudro  na  ijyate  \  hadha-handham  prapanndh  vai  kinnu 
kalasya  paryayah  \  kinnu  mohdd  na  pasyanti  vindSam  paryupasthitant  \ 
upasthitam  mahaghoram  na  hudhyanti  mahddhvare"  |  Ity  uktvd  sa  maha- 
yogi pasyati dhyana-chakshpshd  \  sa pasyati Maliddevam  devincha  vara-ddm 
iuhhdm  \  Ndradancha  mahatmdnam  tasydh  devydh  samipatah  \  santosham 
paramam  lebhe  iti  niiohitya  yoga-vii  \  eka-mantras  tu  te  sarve  yeneso  na 
nimaniritah^'^  |  tasmad  deidd  apdkramya  Badhichir  vdkyam  alravXt  [ 
apujya-puj'omdohchaiva  pujydndnchdpy  apujandt  \  nri-ghdtaha-samam 
pdpam.  iaivat  prdpnoti  mdnavah  '^  |  anritam  noktcthpurvam  rm  na  cha 

'^^  A  line  similarly  expressed  occurs  a  little  further  on. 

'2┬░  The  account  of  Daksha's  sacrifice  given  in  the  Vayu-purana,  and  translated  by 
Prof.  Wilson,  Y.P.  (vol.  i.,  pp.  122  ff.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.),  has  a  good  many  lines  which 
correspond  nearly  with  some  in  this  passage  of  the  Mahabharata.  Of  these  Dr.  Hall 
was  kind  enough  to  send  me  copies.    One  of  them  agrees  in  sense  with  this  verse. 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  MAHABHAEATA.  375, 

valishye  kadaohana  \  devatdndm  risM^Sm  cha  madJiye  satyam  hravimy  dham\ 
agatam  Fasuhhartdram  sraBJitdrtm  jagatah  patim  \  cdhiare  ycynarUok- 
turam  sarveahdm  paiyata  prabhum  \  Bakshah  tmacha  \  Santi  no  laha/vo 
Rudrdh  kula-hastdlj,  hapardinah  \  ehdda^a-sthdna-gatdh  nahaM  vedmi  Ma- 
heivaram  "'  |  BadMchir  uvaeha  |  sarveslidm  eva  mmtro  'yam  yendsau  na 
nimantritah  "┬░  |  yathd  'ham  S'anhardd  urdhvam  nanyam  pa&ydmi  daiva- 
tam  I  tathd  Bahshasya  vipuh  yajno  'yam  na  Ihavishyati  \  Balcshaji  uvdoha[, 
etan  makheidya  suvarna-pdtre  havih  samastam  vidhi-mantra-putam  \  Vish- 
nor  naydmy  apratimasya ''"  bhdgam  prahhur  vilhui  chdhavamya  eshah  \ 
Bevy  uvdcha  |  Mm  ndma  ddnam  vishamam,  tapo  vd  hwrydm  ahafh  yena 
patir  namddya  \  lahheta  bhdgum  bhagavdn  achintyo  a/rdham  talhd  bhd- 
gam atho  tritiyam  \  evam  hruvdndm  bhagwoan  sva-patmm  prah-rishfa- 
rupah  hhubhitdm  widcha  \  na  vetsi  mdm  devi  krUodardngi  Mm  ndma  yuk- 
tam  vaohanam  makhe^e  \  aham  vijdndmi  vUdla-neire  dhydnena  hlndh  na 
vidanty  asantah  \  tavddya  mohena  cha  sendra-dev.dh  lokds  trayah  sarvatah 
eva  mudhdh  \  mdm  adhvmre  iamsitdrah  stuvanti  rathanta/ram  sdma-gds 
chopagdwti\mdm  brdhmandh  brahma-vido  yajante  mfmddhvwryavah  halpa- 
yante  cha  bha.gam  \  Bevy  uvdcha  \  svprdkrito  'pi  pwvsho  sarvah  stri- 
jmasamsadi  \  stauti  garvdyate  qhdpi  svam  dtmdnam  na  samiayah  \ 
Bhagavdn  w>doha  |  ndtrndnam  staumi  devcki  pasya  me  tanurmadhyame  | 
yam  srakshydmi  va/rdrohe  ydgdrthe  vara-varnini  | 

"Beholding  them,  Dadhiclii,  filled  -with  indignation,  thus  spake: 
'This  is  no  sacrifice,  nor  a  legitimate  ceremony,  in  which  Eudra  is 
not  worshipped.  [These  gods]  have  hecome  entangled  in  the  bonds  of 
destruction.  Is  this  the  adverse  influence  of  time?  or  is  it  through 
delusion  that  they  do  not  see  that  ruin  is  at  Hand  ?  They  perceive  not 
that  a  great  calamity  is  impending  at  the  sacrifice.'  Having  so  spoken, 
this  great  devotee  beholds  with  the  eye  of  contemplation:  he  sees 
Mahadeva  and  his  boon-bestowing  and  auspicious  goddess,  and  close  to 
her  the  great  Narada,  and  received  the  highest  satisfaction.  Dadhiohi, 
versed  in  meditation,  having  ascertained  that  all  the  gods  had  adopted 
a  common  resolution  that  they  would  not  invite  Mahadeva,  issued 

"'  A  verse  closely  resembling  this  occurs  in  the  Vayu  Parana. 

'**  The  corresponding  line  runs  thus  in  the  Vayu  Purana ;  Sarvesham  eTsa-mantro 
'yam  ymeio  na  nimantritah;  which  Prof.  Wilson  thus  renders :  "The  invocation  that 
is  not  addressed  to  I^a  is,  for  all,  but  a  solitary  (and  imperfect)  summons." 

129  Instead  of  blmgam,  etc.,  the  Vayu  Purana  reads  sarvam  prabhor  vibhor  hy  aha- 
vaiiiya-nityam. 


376  STOET  OF  DAKSHA'S  SACRIFICE 

forth  from  that  [sacrificial]  ground,  and  spake  thus :  '  By  worshipping^ 
that  which  ought  not  to  he  worshipped,  and  neglecting  to  worship  that 
which  ought  to  he  worshipped,  a  man  ever  incurs  sin  equal  to  that 
of  a  murderer.  I  have  never  hefore  uttered,  neither  shall  I  ever 
utter,  falsehood.  Among  gods  and  rishis  I  declare  the  truth.  Behold 
Pasuhhartri  (S'iva)  arrived,  the  creator,  the  master  of  the  world,  the 
lord  of  all,  the  eater  of  the  sacrifice.'  Daksha  replied :  '  "We  have  many 
Eudras,  armed  with  tridents,  and  wearing  spirally-hraided  hair,  who 
occupy  eleven  places.""  I  know  not  Mahesvara,'  Dadhichi  answered : 
'  This  is  a  [preconcerted]  plan  of  all  [the  gods]  that  he  (Mahadeva)  has 
not  heen  invited.  Since  I  perceive  S'ankara,  and  no  other  deity,  to 
be  supreme,  therefore  this  sacrifice  of  Daksha  shall  not  be  prosperous.' 
Daksha  spake:  'I  offer  to  the  lord  of  sacrifice  (Vishnu),  in  a  golden 
vessel,  this  entire  oblation  purified  by  rites  and  by  texts,  the  share  of 
the  incomparable  Vishnu :  he  is  the  lord,  the  all-pervading,  the  sacri- 
ficial fire.' "'  Devi  (who,  without  any  preainble,  is  here  introduced 
as  speaking)  said:  'What  liberality  or  arduous  austerity  can  I  perform 
whereby  my  divine,  incomprehensible  husband  may  to-day  obtain  a 
share,  a  half-share,  or  a  third?'  The  god,  delighted  in  aspect,  ad- 
dressed his  troubled  wife  who  had  thus  spoken :  '  Thou  knowest  me 
not,  goddess,  slender  of  waist  and  limb ;  nor  what  speech  befits  the 
lord  of  sacrifice.     I  know,  0  large-eyed;  but  the  wicked,  devoid  of 

'2┬░  Compare  tie  phrase  ekadaiatmdka  above,  p.  367. 

131  Pfof_  Vilson  (p.  124  f.)  has  the  following  note  on  the  parallel  passage  of  the 
Vayn  Purana:  "The  Kurma  Purana  gives  also  this  discussion  between  DadhTcha 
and  Daksha,  and  their  dialogue  contains  some  curious  matter.  Daksha,  for  instance, 
states  that  no  portion  of  a  sacrifice  is  ever  allotted  to  S'iva,  and  no  prayers  are 
directed  to  be  addressed  to  him,  or  to  his  bride  [sarveslw  eva  hi  yajneshu  na  bhSgah 
parikalpitah  \  na  mantrah  bhBryaya  sardham  S'ankarasyeii  neshyaie),  DadhTcha 
apparently  evades  the  objection,  and  claims  a  share  for  Budra,  consisting  of  the  triad 
of  gods,  as  one  with  the  sun,  who  is  undoubtedly  hymned  by  the  several  ministering 
priests  of  the  Vedas  [aa  stuyate  sahasramiuh  samagadhvaryu-hotribMh  \  pasyainam 
VUvakarmanam  Mudram  murti-tray7mayam).  Daksha  replies  that  the  twelve 
Adityas  receive  special  oblations ;  that  they  are  all  the  suns ;  and  that  he  knows  of 
no  other.  The  Munis,  who  overhear  the  dispute,  concur  in  his  sentiments  (ye  ete 
dvadasadityah  Aditya-yajna-bhaginah  \  sane  suryah  iti  jmyah  na  hy  anyo  vidyate 
rmih  \  evam  u/cte  tu  munayah  aamdyatah  didrijcshava^  \  mdham  ity  abruvan  Daisham 
tasya  sahayya-karinaK).  These  notions  seem  to  have  been  exchanged  for  others  in 
the  days  of  the  Padma  P.  and  Bhagavata,  as  they  place  Daksha's  neglect  of  S'iva. 
to  the  latter's  filthy  practices Рђћ his  going  naked,  smearing  himself  with  ashes,"  etc., 
etc.    An  abstract  of  the  story  as  given  in  the  Bhagavata  will  be  found  in  the  text.    , 


ACCORDING  TO  THE  MAHABHARATA.  377 

reflection,  know  not :  and  the  three  worlds,  including  Indra  and  the 
gods,  are  to-day  altogether  bewildered  with  thy  bewilderment.  "Wor- 
shippers praise  me  at  the  sacrifice,  singers  of  the  sama  chant  the 
rathantara,  Brahmans,  versed  in  the  veda  {Irahma),  adore  me,  and 
Adhvaryu  (i.e.  Tajurvedic)  priests  divide  for  me  a  portion.'  ^^  Devi 
replied :  '  Doubtless,  every  common  man  praises  and  magnifies  himself 
in  an  assembly  of  women.'  Mahadeva  answered:  'I  praise  not  myself, 
queen  of  the  gods;  behold,  slender- waisted,  beautiful-complexioned 
[goddess],  what  being  I  shall  create.' "  Mahadeva  accordingly  creates 
a  dreadful  being,  who,  attended  by  hosts  of  other  frightful  creatures, 
demolishes  all  Daksha's  preparations  for  his  sacrifice.  Brahma  and 
the  other  gods  humbly  inquire  of  this  destroyer  who  he  is.  He  replies 
that  he  is  neither  Rudra  nor  Devi,  but  Virabhadra,  sent  to  destroy  the 
sacrifice,  and  exhorts  them  to  submit  to  Mahadeva,  whose  wrath  is 
better  than  the  beneficence  of  any  other  god  {ymram  Icrodho  'pi  devasya 
vara-danam  na  chanyataK).  Upon  this  Daksha  sings  the  praises  of 
Mahesvara."'  The  latter  then  appears,  and  assents  to  Daksha's  request 
that  his  preparations  for  sacrifice  shall  not  be  fruitless  (vv.  10338  ff.). 
Daksha  then  celebrates  him  by  reciting  his  eight  thousand  names. 

The  following  is  an  abstract  of  the  same  story  as  told  in  the  Bhaga- 
vata  Purana,  book  iv.  sections  2-7,  with  a  colouring  different  from 
that  of  the  Mahabharata,  and  some  interesting  illustrations  of  the 
hostility  between  the  S'aivas  and  the  Vaishnavas,  or  between  the 
former  and  the  more  orthodox  adherents  of  the  Vedas,  which,  not- 

'3*  The  text  of  the  Vayu  Purana  as  translated  hy  Prof.  "Wilson  (Vish.  Pur.,  p.  65 
=p.  128  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.  vol.  i.)  differs  somewhat  from  that  of  the  Mahahharata,  as 
here  given.  The  former  text  has  been  copied  for  me  by  Prof.  Fitz-Edward  Hall 
from  the  Guikowar  MS.  in  the  India  Office  Library,  and  is  as  follows :  MamadJmare 
samsitdrah  stuvanii  rathantare  sama  gayanti  geyam  \  abrahmane  brahma-satre 
yajamte  mamadhvarycwah  kalpayante  cha  bhagam  \  "At  my  sacrifice  worshippers 
praise  (me);  in  the  rathantara  they  sing  the  sama  song;  they  adore  (me)  in  a  sacrifice 
of  devotion  without  Brahmans ;  and  the  adhvaryus  divide  for  me  a  portion."  It 
is  remarkable  that  Mahadeva's  worship  should  be  here  described  as  performed 
"without  Brahmans."  But  what  are  we  to  make  of  the  word  "adhvaryu"?  Could 
it  mean,  in  later  times  at  least,  anything  else  than  the  Brahmanical  priest  so  called  ? 
Рђб'2  In  this  passage  (v.  10332)  Mahadeva  is  called  Vis'vakarman  {JDevo  nahuyaie 
tatra  Visvalcarma  Mahesvarah).  Compare  the  passage  from  the  Eamayana,  above, 
p.  368  f.,  and  note  131,  p.  376.  There  appears  to  be  some  confusion  in  the  narrative 
as  given  in  verses  10331  ff.  Though  Daksha  had  already  made  his  submission  to 
Mahadeva,  the  story  seems  to  be  begun  over  again,  .or  recapitulated. 


378  MAHADEVA  OMITS  TO  SALUTE  DAKSHA, 

withstanding  the  conciliation  of  the  conflicting  yiews  introduced  by 
the  writer  at  the  close  of  the  story,  no  doubt  had,  and  perhaps,  still 
has,  a  real  existence  in  the  minds  of  many  of  the  sectaries.  Sati,  the 
wife  of  S'iva,  was  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  as  we  are  toldi  in  the  same 
work  (iv.  1,  47,  48) :  Prasutim  Manavim  Dahhah  vpayeme  hy  Ajat- 
mo/jah  I  tasydm  saswrja  duhitrih  shodaiSmala-loehcmah  |  trayodaiadai 
Dharmdya  tathaiham  Agnaye  vibhuh  \  pitrihhyahelcam  yuktebhyo  Bhava- 
yaikdm  hhava-ohhide  |  "Daksha,  the  son  of  Aja  (the  'unborn' Рђћ ^he  is 
said  [v.  11]  to  be.  the  son  of'  Brahma=Aja),  married  Prasuti,  the 
daughter  of  Manu.  Prom  her  he  begot  sixteen  pure-eyed  daughters. 
Of  these  this  lord  gave  thirteen  to  Dharma,  one  to  Agni,  one  to  the 
meditative  [or  united,  samyatehhyo  militebhyo  va,  Comm.J  Pitris,  and 
one  to  Bhava  (S'iva),  the  destroyer  of  existence."  Sati,  however,  bore 
no  children  to  S'iva.  i.  64.  Bhmiasya  patnl  tu  Sail  Bhmam  devam 
cmuvrata  \  dtmanah  sadrisam  putrarh  na  lebhe  guna-illatah  | 

In  the  second  section  we  are  informed  how  enmity  arose  between 
Mahadeva  and  his  father-in-law  Daksha.  It  appears  that  the  gods 
and  rishis  were  assembled  at  a  sacrifice  celebrated  by  the  Prajapatis. 
On  the  entrance  of  Daksha,  aU  the  personages  who  were  present,  rose 
to  salute  him,  excepting  only  Virinchya  (Brahma)  and  Mahadeva. 
Daksha,  after  making  his  obeisance  to  Brahma,  sat  down  by  his 
command;  but  was  offended  at  the  treatment  he  received  from  S'iva 
(iv.  2,  8  ff.) :  Fran  nishannam  Mridarh  drishtva  ndi^rishat  tad-and- 
dritah  \  uvUcIm  vdmam  ehakahwrhhydm  abhivlhshya  daharm  iva  \  sr'uytft.dm 
Irahmarshayo  me  saha-devdh  sahdgnaydh  \  sddhundm  hruvaio  vrittam 
ndjndndd  na  eha  matsardt  |  ayarh  tu  loka-pdldndfh  yakoghno  nirapatrapah  \ 
sadhhir  aoharitah  panthdh  yena  stahdhena  dushitah  \  esha  me  sishyatdm 
prdpto  yan  me  duhitur  agrahit  \  panim  viprdgni-mukhatah  savitrydh  wa 
sddhu-vat  |  grihitva  mriga-idvdlcsydh  pdnim  marJcafa-lochanah  |  praty- 
ntthdndihwdddrhe  vdchd  'py  akrita  noehitam  \  lupta-kriydydiuchaye 
mdnine  hhmna-setave  \  aniehhann  apy  adam  hdldm  Sudrdyevokatlm 
giram  \  pretdvdseshu  ghoreshu  pretair  Ihuta-ganair  vritah  \  ataty  wnmatta- 
vad  nagno  vywpta-keko  hasan  rudan  \  chitd-lhasma-krifa-snanah  preta-aran. 
nrasihi-hhushanah  \  iivdpadeko  hy  aiivo  matto  matta-janapriyah  \  patih 
pramatha-lhutdndm  tamo-mdtrdtmakdtmandm  \  taamai  unmdda-ndthdya 
nashta-ioMchdya  dv/rhride  \  dattd  mayd  vata  sddhvl  ohodite  parameshthind  |. 
vinindyaivam  sa  GirUam  aprattpam  avasthitam  \  Lakaho  'ihdpak  iipar: 


AND  IS  EEVIXED  BY  HIM.  379 

spriSya  IcruMhah  iaptum  praefiahrame  \  ayam  tk  ievw-y(yaneIndropmdrS- 
dihhir  Bhavah  \  saha  hhSgam  na  labhatdm  devair  deva-ganadhamah  \ 
"  Beholding  Mrida  (S'iva)  previously  seated,  Daksha  did  not  brook  tis 
want  of  respect ;  and  looking  at  him  obliquely  -with  his  eyes;  as  if  con- 
suming him,  thus  spake :  'Hear  me,  ye  Brahman  rishis,  with  the  gods 
and  the  Agnis,  while  I,  neither  from  ignorance  nor  from  passion,  de- 
scribe what  is  the  practice  of  virtuous  persons.  But  this  shameless 
being  (S'iya)  detracts^  from  the  reputation  of  the  guardians  of  the 
world, Рђћ hei  by  whom,  stubborn  as  he  isj  the  course  pursued  by  the 
good  is  transgressed.  He  assumed  the  position  of  my  disciple,  inas- 
much as,  like  a  virtuous  person,  in  the  face  of  Brahmans  and  of  fire, 
he  took  the  hand  of  my  daughter,  who  resembled  Savitrx.  This 
monkey-eyed  [god],  after  having  taken  the  hand  of  [my]  fawn-eyed 
[daughter],  has  not  even  by  word  shown  suitable  respect  to  me;  whom 
he  ought  to  have  risen  and  saluted.  Though  unwUling,  I  yet  gave 
my  daughter  to  this  impure  and  proud  abolisher  of  rites  and  demolisher 
of  barriers,  like  the  word  of  the  Veda  ''*  to  a  S'udra.  He  roams  about 
in  dreadful  cemeteries^  attended  by  hosts  of  ghosts  and  sprites,  like  a 
madman,  naked,  with  dishevelled  hair,  laughing,  weeping,  bathed  in 
the  ashes  of  funeral  piles,  wearing  a  garland  of  dead  men's  [skulls], 
and  ornaments  of  human  bones,  pretending  to  be  S'iva  (auspicious) 
but  in  reality  Aliva  (inauspicious),  insane,  beloved  by  the  insane,  the 
lord  of  Pramathas  and  Bhutas  (sprites),  beings  whose  nature  is  essen- 
tially darkness.  To  this  wicked-hearted  lord  of  the  infuriate,  whose 
purity  has  perished,  I  have,  alas !  given  my  virtuous  daughter,,  at  the 
instigation  of  Brahma.'"'     Having  thus  reviled  Girisa  (S'iva),  who 

"*  Viatim  giram,  whicli  the  commentator  explains  vedU-laltahanam  giram.  It 
occurs  also  elsewhere  in  this  same  Purana,  as  in  iii.  16,  13,  where  the  Coram,  renders 
it  by  kamanTyam,  "to  be  loved."     See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  vol.  v.,  p.  1204,  s.v. 

135  The  commentator  gives  as  follows  what  he  calk  the  real,  esoteric,  sense  of  this 
abuse : Рђћ  Vdstavas  tv  ayam  arthah  |  luptah  kriyah  yasmin  para-trahma-rupatvat  \ 
atah  eva  nasti  i'uehir  yasmat  \  amanine  abhinna-seiave  iti  eha  ehhedah  \  tasya  paretnes- 
varasya  madiya  manusM  kanya  katham  yogya  syad  iti  lajjadina  datum  anichhann  api 
tat-samhamdha-lobhena  dattaoan  \  'dudrayeti '  anarhatm-matre  drishtanto  na  hinatve 
purvapara-sva-vachana-virodhapatteh  \  etad  uktam  bhavati  \  yatha  kas'chit  s'udraya 
vedam  artha-lobhena  dadati  \  ' pretavaseshv '  ityadi  aarvam  vidambana-matram-  iii  \ 
svayam  eva  aha  '  unmatta-vad'  iti  |  anyatha  'unmattah'  ity  eva  avakshyat  \  'asivah' 
naati  aivo  yaamat  \  amattah  \  amatta-jana-priyah  |  iti  ehhedah  |  'patih  pramalha- 
bhutanam'  iti  bhakta-mtaah/am  aha  \  tamasan  api  dosham  apamya pati iti  |  naahtariam 
api  iaucham  auddhir  yaamat  |  duahteahv  apy  ete  mayd  anukampyah  iti  hrin  mano  yaaya 


380  KTANDISTAEA  CURSES  THE  CONTEMNERS,  AND 

did  not  oppose  him,  Daksha  having  then  touched  water,  incensed, 
began  to  curse  him  [thus]:  'Let  this  Bhava  (S'iva),  lowest  of  the 
gods,  never,  at  the  worship  of  the  gods,  receive  any  portion  along 
with  the  gods  Indra,  Upendra  (Vishnu),  and  others.'"  Having  de- 
livered his  malediction,  Daksha  departed.  A  counter-malediction,  as 
follows,  was  then  uttered  upon  him  and  the  Brahmans  who  took  bis 
part,  by  Nandlsvara,  one  of  the  chief  of  Mahadeva's  followers : 

21  ff. Рђћ  Tah  etam  martyam  uddUfa  Ihagavaty  apratidruM  \  druhyaty 
ajnah  prithag-drishtis  taUvato  vimuhho  Ihavet  \  griheshu  huta-dharmesht 
sahto  gramya-sultheohhayd]  harma-tantram  vitanutad^^  veda-vada-vipmna- 
dhth  I  huddhya  par&bMdhyayinya  vismritdfma-gatih  pahih,  \  strl-kamah 
so  'stu  nitwram  Bahho  vasta-mulcho  'chirat  I  vidya-luddhir  avidyayam 
Tearmamayydm  amu  jadah  \  samsarantv  iha  ye  ehdmum  arm  S'arvavama- 
ninam  \  girah  srutdyah  pmhpinyah  madku-gandhena  hhurina  \  mathnd 
ehonmathztdtmdnah  sammuhyantu  Hwra-dvishah  \  sarva-hhahhah  dvijdh 
vrittyai  dhrita-vidyd-tapo-vratdk  \  vitta-dehendriydramdk  yaehakdh 
vicharantv  iha  \  "  May  the  ignorant  being  who,  from  regard  to  this 
mortal  (Daksha),  and  considering  [S'iva]  as  distinct  [from  the  supreme 

sa  durhrit  taamai  \  'vata'  iti  harshe  \  Si'ahmana  vaTtya\lf\  lajjU-bhayadiiam 
parityajya  datta  ity  arthah  |  "  The  real  meaning  (of  vv.  13  ff.)  is  this :  '  He  in 
whom  works  are  destroyed,  owing  to  his  character  of  supreme  Brahma;  in  consequence 
of  which  there  is  none  purer  than  he.'  Instead  of  manine  and  bhinna-setme,  the 
division  of  words  may  also  be  amanine,  ahhinna-setam,  'not  proud,'  'not  demolisher 
of  harriers.'  Though  unwilling  to  give  my  daughter  through  modesty,  etc.,  from  a 
feeling  that  my  human  daughter  could  not  be  worthy  of  the  supreme  lord,  I  never- 
theless gave  her  from  a  covetous  desire  of  being  connected  with  hiro.  The  words 
'  as  to  a  S'udra'  are  merely  an  illustration  to  express  unfitness,  and  not  defectiveness, 
otherwise  there  would  be  a  contradiction  between  his  preceding  and  his  following 
words.  The  sense  is  this :  'just  as  any  one  through  oovetousness  of  money  gives  the 
Veda  to  a  S'udi-a.'  The  words  'in  cemeteries,'  etc.,  are  a  mere  disguise.  He  him- 
self says  'like  a  madman.'  Otherwise  he  would  have  said  'a  madman.'  Aiiva,'m- 
auspicious,  means  he  than  whom  none  is  more  auspicious.  The  words  matta  and  matta- 
jmia-priya  should  be  so  divided  as  to  be  preceded  by  a  negative,  and  thus  mean  '  not 
insane,'  '  beloved  by  the  not-insane.'  The  words  '  lord  of  Pramathas,'  etc.,  intimate 
his  love  for  those  devoted  to  him.  The  sense  is  that,  removing  their  faultiness,  he 
cherishes  even  those  who  have  the  quality  of  darkness.  Nashta-sauchaya  means 
that  from  him  comes  purity  to  the  depraved.  Durhrit  means  he  whose  heart,  feeling, 
Bugggsta  that  '  even  these,  although  wicked,  are  to  be  compassionated  by  me.'  Vata 
intimates  joy.  '  Owing  to  the  injunction  of  Brahma,  abandoning  modesty,  feai,  etc., 
I  gave  my  daughter : '  such  is  the  sense." 

'^'  This  is  Burnouf's  reading.  It  is  an  archaic,  Vedio,  form.  The  Bombay  edition 
reads  vitanute. 


BHRIGU  CUESES  THE  YOTAEIES,  OF  MAHADEYA.  381 

spirit], Рђћ hates  the  deity  who  does  not  return  the  hatred, Рђћ ^be  averse  to 
the  truth.  Devoted  to  domestic  life,  in  which  frauds  are  prevalent,'''  let 
him,  from  a  desire  of  vulgar  pleasures,  practise  the  round  of  ceremonies, 
with  an  understanding  degraded  by  Vedic  prescriptions."*  Porgetting 
the  nature  of  soul,  with  a  mind  which  contemplates  other  things,  let 
Daksha,  brutal,  be  excessively  devoted  to  women,  and  have  speedily 
the  face  of  a  goat.  Let  this  stupid  being,  who  has  a  conceit  of  know- 
ledge, and  all  those  who  follow  this  contemner  of  S'arva  (S'iva),  continue 
to  exist  in  this  world  in  ceremonial  ignorance.  Let  the  enemies  of 
Eara  (S'iva),  whose  minds  are  disturbed  by  the  strong  spirituous  odour 
and  the  excitement  of  the  flowery  words  '''  of  the  Veda,  become 
deluded  !  Let  those  Brahmans,  eating  all  sorts  of  food,  professing 
knowledge  and  practising  austerities  and  ceremonies  [merely]  for  sub- 
sistence, delighting  in  riches  and  in  corporeal  and  sensual  enjoyments, 
wander  about  as  beggars !  " 

The  wrath  of  Ehrigu,  one  of  the  sages  present  at  the  sacrifice,  is 
aroused  by  this  curse : 

27  ff. Рђћ Tasyaivam  dadatah  iapam  srutva  dvija-hul&ya  vai  \  Bhriguh 
^ratyanrijach  chhapam  Irahma-dandam  duratyayam )  Bhava-vrata-dharSh 
ye  cha  ye  oha  tan  samanuvratdh  |  pashandinas  te  hhavantu  saohehhdStra- 
paripanthinah  \  nashta-iauchah  mudha-dhiyo  jatd-lhasmasthi-dharinah  | 
vUantu  S'wa-diksMyam  yatra  daivam  surasavam  \  hrahma  cha  hrahma- 
namLchaiva  yad  yuyam  parinindatha  \  setum  mdhdramm  puinsdtn  atah 
pdshandam  airitdh  \  esha  eva  hi  loTcdnOm  iivah  panthd  sandtanah  \  yam 
purve  chdnusamtasthur  yat-pramdnam  Jandrdanah  \  tad  hrahma  paramam 
iuddham  satdm  vartma  sandtanam  \  vigarhya  ydta  pdshandam  daivam  vo 

1"  The  words  so  rendered,  griheshu  huta-dharmeshu,  occur  thrice  in  this  Purana 
(see  Bohllingk  and  Eoth  s.v.  kuta-dharma),  viz.,  in  iii.  30,  10  ;  in  iv.  25,,  6 ;  and  in 
the  verse  before  us.  In  his  note  on  iii.  30,  10  (verse  9  in  the  Bombay  edition)  the 
commentator  explains  the  word  huta-dharmeshu  as  meaning  houses  "in  which  frauds, 
practices  such  as  roguery  in  regard  to  money,  etc.,  prevail "  {kiitah  mtta-iathyadi- 
iahulah  dharmiiliyeshu).  In  his  remarks  on  the  other  passages  he  gives  no  explana- 
tiou  of  the  word.  In  his  translation  of  iii.  30,  10,  M.  Burnouf  renders  the  term  by 
"sa  maison  oil  dominent  le  mensonge  [et  la  misfere,"  duhkha-tantreshu];  in  the  verse 
Tjefore  us  by  "  attache  dans  les  maisons,  h.  des  vils  devoirs  "  ;  and  similarly  in  iv.  25, 
.6,  by  "  au  milieu  des  devoirs  vulgaires  d'un  mattre  de  maison." 
.  13S  This  depreciation  of  the  Vedas  may  have  arisen  from  a  consciousness  on  the  part 
of  the  S'aivas,  .that  their  worship  was  not  very  consistent  with  the  most  venerated 
Scriptures  of  their  own  country. 

139  Compare  the  Bhagavad  Gita  ii.  42  ff.,  quoted  in  the  Srd  vol.  of  this  work,  p.  31  f. 


382  MAHADEVA'S  HOSTILITY  TO  DAKSSA, 

yaira  bhuta-rdt  \  "Hearing  him  thus  utter  a  curse  against  the  tribe 
of  Brahmans,  Bhrigu  launched  a  counter-imprecation,  a  Brahmanical 
weapon,  hard  to  be  evaded :  'Let  those  who  practise  the  rites  of  Ehava 
(MahadeVa),  and  all  their  followers,  be  heretics,  and  opponents  of  the 
true  scriptures.  Having  lost  their  purity,  deluded  in  understanding, 
^yРќаearing  matted  hair,  and  ashes  and  bones,  let  them  undergo  the  initia- 
tion of  S'iva,  in  which  spirituous  liquor  is  the  deity.  Since  ye  revile 
the  veda  {irakma)  and  Brahmans,  the  barriers  by  which  men  are 
restrained,  ye  have  embraced  heresy.  For  this  [veda]  is  the  auspicious 
{Siva)  eternal  path  of  the  people,  which  the  ancients  have  trod,  and 
wherein  Jan^rdana  (Vishnu)  is  the  authority.  B,eviling  this  veda 
{irahma),  supreme,  pure,  the  eternal  path  of  the  virtuous,  follow  the 
heresy  in  which  your  god  is  the  king  of  goblins.' " 

On  hearing  this  imprecation,  S'iva  departed  with  his  followers,  while 
Baksha  and  the  other  Prajapatis  celebrated  for  a  thousand  years  the 
sacrifice  in  which  Yishnu  was  the  object  of  adoration. 

The  enmity  between  the  father-in-law  and  son-in-law  continues 
(sect.  3).  Daksha  being  elevated  by  Brahma  to  the  rank  of  chief  of 
the  Prajapatis,  becomes  elated.  He  commences  a  great  sacrifice  called 
Vrihaspatisava.  Seeing  the  other  gods  with  their  wives  passing  to  this 
sacrifice,  SatI  presses  her  husband,  S'iva,  to  accompany  her  thither. 
He  refers  to  the  insults  which  he  had  received  from  her  father,  and 
advises  her  not  to  go.  She,  however  (sect.  4),  being  anxious  to  see 
ier  relatives,  disregards  his  warning  and  goes ;  bilt  being  slighted  by 
her  father,  Daksha,  she  reproaches  him  for  his  hostility  to  her  husband, 
Рђбand  threatens  to  abandon  the  corporeal  frame  by  which  she  was  con- 
nected with  her  parent.  She  then  voluntarily  gives  up  the  ghost. 
Seeing  this,  S'iva's  attendants,  who  had  followed  her,  rush  on  Daksha 
to  kiU  him.  Bhrigu,  however,  throws  an  oblation  into  the  southern 
'fire,  pronouncing  a  Yajus  text  suited  to  destroy  the  destroyers  of 
sacrifice  {yajna-ghna-ghnena  y^yusha  dahshinagncm  juhava  ha).  A  troop 
of 'Eibhus  in  consequence  spring  up,  who  put  S'iva's  followers  to  flight. 
S'iva  is  filled  with  wrath  when  he  hears  of  the  death  of  SatI  (sect.  5). 
From  a  look  of  his  hair,  which  he  tore  out,  a  gigantic  demon  aros% 
Рќа^hom  he  commanded  to  destroy  Daksha  arid  his  sacrifice.  This  demon 
proceeds  with  a  troop  of  S'iva's  followers,  and  they  all  execute  the 
mandate.      15  ff.    Rurujur  y(yna-patrani  tathaihe  'gntn  anai(fffm  \ 


РќаWHOSE  SACRIFICE  HE  BREAKS  UP.  383 

hundesJw  amutrayan  IceoMd  hihhidw  vedi-melthalah  \  abadhanta  tnunm 
anye  ehepatnlr  ata/tjayan  \  apare  jagrihur  devdn  pratyascmnan  palayitan  \ 
...  19.  juhvatah  sruva-hastasya  ima^runi  hhagman  Bhavah  \  Bhrigor 
Munehe  sadasi  yo  'hasat  ^masru  darSayan  |  Bhagasya  netre  hhagavdn 
paiitasya  rtcshd  bhuvi  \  ujjahara  sadahstho  'hhna  yah  iapantam  asu- 
suehat  \  Pushmi  chapdtayad  danidn  Kdlingasya  yathd  Bahh  \  sapyamdm 
garimani'^*''  yo  'hasad  darsayem  datah  |  15.  "  Some  broke  the  sacrificial 
vessels,  others  destroyed  the  fires,  others  made  water  in  the  ponds, 
others  cut  the  houndary-cords  of  the  sacrificial  ground;  others  as- 
saulted the  Munis,  others  reviled  their  wives ;  others  seized  the  gods 

who  were  near,  and  those  who  had  fled 19.  The  divine  Bhava 

(S'iva)  plucked  out  the  beard  of  Bhrigu,  who  was  offering  oblations 
with  a  ladle  in  his  hand,  and  who  had  laughed  in  the  assembly,  show- 
ing his  beard.'  He  also  tore  out  the  eyes  of  Bhaga,  whom  in  his  wrath 
he  had  felled  to  the  ground,  and  who,  when  in  the  assembly,  had  made 
a  sign  to  [Daksha  when]  cursing  [S'iva].  He  moreover  knocked 
Out  the  teeth  of  Pushan"'  (as  Bala  did  the  king  of  Kalinga's),  who 
(Pushan)  had  laughed,  showing  his  teeth,  when  the  great  god  was 
being  cursed."  Tryambaka  (S'iva,  or  Virabhadra,  according  to  the 
commentator)  then  cuts  off  the  head  of  Daksha,  but  not  without  some 
difficulty.  The  gods  report  all  that  had  passed  to  Svayambhu  (Brahma), 
who,  with  Vishnu,  had  not  been  present  (sect.  6).  Brahma  advises 
the  gods  to  propitiate  S'iva,  whom  they  had  wrongfully  excluded  from 
a  share  in  the  sacrifice  (v.  5.  athdpi  yuyam  Icrita-Mlvishdh  Bhwam 
ye  la/rhisho  Ihdga-hhdjam  pardduh).  The  deities,  headed  by  Aja 
(Brahma),  accordingly  proceed  to  Kailasa,  when  they  see  S'iva  "bear- 
ing the  linga  desired  by  devotees,  ashes,  a  staff,  a  tuft  of  hair,  an 
antelope's  skin,  and  a  digit  of  the  moon,  his  body  shining  like  an  even- 
ing cloud  "  (v.  35.  linganoha  tdpasdhhishtam  hhasma-dmda-jatdj'mam  | 
angena  swndhyd-hhra-'fuchd  chandra-lelehdncha  bibhrafam).  Brahma  ad- 
dresses Mahadeva  "as  the  eternal  Brahma,  the  lord  of  S'akti  and  S'iva, 
who  are  respectively  the  womb  and  the  seed  of  the  universe, Рђћ who, 
in  sport,  like  a  spider,  forms  all  things  from  S'akti  and  S'iva,  who  are 
eonsubstantial  with  himself,  and  preserves  and  reabsorbs  them".(vv. 

'*"  Garimani  gurutare  Bitdre  |  Comm. 

"1  See  Taitt.  SanMta,  ii.  6,  8,  3,  and  other  texts  quoted  above,  pp.  200  S.,  for  the 
older  story. 


884    MAHADEVA  PROPITIATED;  D.'S  SACRIFICE  RECOMMENCED. 

41  f.  jane  tvam  isam  vUvasya  jagato  yoni-vijayoh  \  S'akteh  S'ivasya  cha 
param  yat  tad  Brahma  nirantaram  \  tvam  eva  hhagavann  etaeh  Chhiva- 
S'aktyoh  sarupayoh  \  viivam  srijasi  pasy  atsi  Icrldann  urna-pafo  yatha), 
(A  similar  supremacy,  as  we  shall  see,  is  ascribed  to  Vishnu  in  section  7.) 
Brahma  adds  that  it  was  this  great  being  who  had  instituted  sacrifice, 
and  all  the  regulations  which  Brahmans  devoutly  observe;  and  entreats 
him,  who  is  beyond  all  illusion,  to  have  mercy  on  those  who,  overcome 
by  its  influence,  had  wrongly  attached  importance  to  ceremonial  works, 
and  to  restore  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha,  at  which  a  share  had  been  refused 
to  him  by  evil  priests  (v.  49.  ]Va  yatra  Ihaga'ih  tava  Ihayino  daduh  kuya- 
jvinah).  Mahadeva  partly  relents  (sect.  7),  and  allows  Daksha  to  have 
a  goat's-faced  head,  Bhaga  to  see  with  Mitra's  eyes,  Pushan  to  eat  with 
the  teeth  of  his  worshipper,  Bhrigu  to  have  a  he-goat's  beard,  etc.  (vv. 
3  ff.)  Daksha,  after  having  had  a  goat's  head  fitted  to  his  body,  celebrates 
the  praises  of  S'iva  (vv.  8  ff.).  The  sacrifice  is  then  recommenced,  and 
in  order  to  its  completion,  and  to  remove  the  pollution  occasioned  by 
the  touch  of  Mahadeva's  warriors,  an  oblation  is  made  to  Vishnu  on 
three  platters  (v.  17.  Vaishnavam  yajna-santatyaitrikapalafh  dvijottamah\ 
puroddsam  niravapan  vira-gamsarga-^uddJtaye).  Hari  (Vishnu)  being 
meditated  on,  then  appears  (v.  18),  is  saluted  with  the  greatest  rever- 
ence by  the  gods,  headed  by  Brahma,  Indra,  and  S'iva  {Tryaksha) ; 
is  lauded  successively  by  Daksha,  by  the  priests,  by  Kudra  himself, 
etc.,  etc.  (vv.  26  ff.),  and  at  length  expresses  himself  as  follows,  in  such 
a  manner  as  to  demonstrate  the  futility  of  the  dispute  between  Daksha 
and  Mahadeva,  and  to  show  that  he  himself  was  the  one  supreme  deity, 
of  whom  all  the  others  were  only  the  manifestations,  though  in  reality 
one  in  their  essence : 

V.  50.  Sri-Bhagman  vmaeha  \  aliam  Brahma  cha  S'arvas  cha  jagatah 
kdramm  param  |  atmeivarah  upadrashta  svayamdrig  aviseshanah  \  51. 
Mma-mayam  samavisya  so  ^ham  gunamayim  dvija  \  srijan  rakshan  haran 
yisvam  dadlwe  samjndm  kriyochitum  \  52.  tasmin  Brahmany  advitiye  kevah 
paramdtmani  \  Brahma-Rudrau  cha  hhutani  hhedenajno  ^nvpa^yati  \  53. 
yatha  puman  na  svangeshu  sirah-pany-adishu  kvachit  \  parakya-huddhim 
hwrute  evam  hhuteshu  mat-pa/rah  |  54.  Trayanam  eka-bhavanam  yo  na 
pasyati  vai  hhidam  \  sarva-bhutdtmandm  brahman  sa  Sdnttm  adhigachhati\ 
50.  "I  am  Brahma  and  S'arva  (S'iva),  the  supreme  cause  of  the  world, 
the  soul,  the  lord,  the  witness,  the  self-manifesting  (or,  self-beholding), 


DISPUTE  BETWEEN  BEAHMA  AND  VISHNU.  385 

devoid  of  attributes.  51.  Entering  into  my  own  illusion  consisting  of 
the  [three]  Gunas  (qualities) Рђћ creating,  preserving,  and  destroying Рђћ I 
have  assumed  names  corresponding  to  my  several  acts.  52.  In  that 
one  and  only  Brahma,  the  supreme  Spirit,  the  ignorant  person  per- 
ceives a  distinction  of  Brahma  and  Eudra,  and  creatures.  53.  But  as 
a  man  does  not  think  of  his  own  members,  hia  head,  hands,  etc.,  as 
belonging  to  another,  so  the  man  who  is  devoted  to  me  [does  not  look 
upon]  created  things  [as  distinct  from  me].  54.  He  who  beholds  no 
distinction  between  the  three  gods  who  are  one  in  essence,  and  the 
soul  of  all  things,  attains  tranquillity." 

Daksha,  after  adoring  Vishnu,  worships  the  other  gods,  and  offers  to 
Eudra  his  proper  share  in  the  sacrifice  (w.  55  f.).  SatI,  the  daughter 
of  Daksha,  who  had  abandoned  her  original  body,  is  born  again  as 
the  daughter  of  Himavat  and  Mena  (v  58.  evam  Dalcshayam  Mtvd  Sail 
purva-halevaram\jajneHimwi}atahkahetreMenayamitiiusruma)}*^  .Рќа        ,1'   . 

The  S'aiva  compiler  of  the  Linga  Purana  takes  his  revenge  on  the('"*'iV^ 
Vaishnava  writers,  who,  like  the  author  of  the  Bhagavata  Purana,  have 
exalted  Vishnu  at  the  expense  of  S'iva,  by  narrating  the  following 
legend  of  an  undignified  dispute  between  Brahma  and  Vishnu  regard- 
ing their  respective  claims  to  superiority,  and  of  the  apparition  of  the 

i┬Ф  The  same  account  of  Sati's  doutle  'birtli  is  given  in  the  Vishnu  Purana,  i.  8, 9  ┬Бf. ;  Рќа< 
Evam-praharo  JRudro  'sau  Saftm  bharyam  mindata  \  Dakaha-lcopachcha  tatyaja  m 
Satt  mam  kaUvaram  \  Himavad-duhita  sa  'bhud  Menayam  dvija-sattama  |  upayeme 
punas  chomam  ananyam  bhagamn  Bhwoah  \  "Eudra,  heing  of  the  character  thus  de- 
scribed (┬╗.┬Ф.  one  of  the  eight  forms  of  the  son  born  to  Brahma :  see  above,  pp.  339  ff.) 
obtained  Sati  for  his  -wife.  This  Sati  abandoned  her  body  in  consequence  of  the  anger 
of  Daksha.  She  then  became  the  daughter  of  Himavat  and  Mena ;  and  the  divine 
Bhava  again  married  Umil  who  was  identical  [with  his  former  spouse]."  In  the  pre- 
ceding section  (the  7th)  of  the  Vishnu  Purana,  Sati  is  mentioned  as  one  of  the  twenty- 
four  daughters  of  Daksha ;  but  the  husband,  Bhava,  to  whom  she  is  said  to  have  been 
given  in  marriage,  is  enumerated  (as  is  also  Agni)  among  the  Munis  to  whom  Daksha's 
daughters  were  wedded :  Tabhyah  sishtali  han'iyasyah  ekadaia  aulochanah  \  Khyatih 
Saty  atha  Sambhutih  Smritih  Pntih  Kshama  tatha  \  Sannatis'  chanusuyS  cha  Urja 
Svaha  Svadha  tatha  \  Bhrigur  Bh<mo  MarJehis  cha  tatha  chaimngirah  munih  [ 
Pulastyah  JPulahaa  ohaiva  Kratua  charahi-varaa  tatha  |  Atrir  Vaaishtho  Vahnis  cha 
Fitarad  cha  yatha-kramam  \  Khyaty-adyahjagrihuh  kanyah  munayo  muni-aattama  | 
"  Tounger  than  them  (the  other  thirteen  daughters  of  Daksha)  were  eleven  virtuous 
and  lovely-eyed  damsels,  Khyati,  Sati,  Sambhuti,  Smriti,  Priti,  Eshama,  S┬Фnnati, 
Anusuya,  Urja,  Svaha,  and  Svadha.  Bhrigu,  Bhava,  Marichi,  the  muni  Angiras, 
Pulastya,  Pulaha,  Kratu  the  excellent  rishi,  Atri,  Vasishtha,  Vahni  (i.e.  Agni  or  Fire), 
and  the  Pitris, Рђћ these  munis  in  order  married  Khyati  and  the  other  maidens." 

VOL.  IV.  25 


386  LINGA  PURANA  DESCRIBES  APPARITION 

Linga  to  rebuke  and  humble  tbem  by  pointing  out  the  inferiority  of 
both  to  the  supreme  Mahadeva : 

Linga  Purana,  i.  17,  5-52. Рђћ Pitamahah  uvaoha  \  Pradhdnam  lingmn 
ahhyatam  lingl  eha  paramesvarah  |  rakshdrtham  amiudhau  mahyafh. 
Vishnos  tv  dsit  surottamdh  \  vaimdnike  gate  mrge  jana-loTcam  saharshi- 
bhih  I  sthitihdle  tadd  purne  tatah  pratyahrite  tathd  \  chatur-yuga- 
sahasrdnte  satyalolcam  gate  sv/rdh  \  vind  "  dhipatyarh  samatam  gate  'nte 
Brahmano  mama  I  sushlce  cha  sthdvare  sarve  tv  andvrishtyd  cha  sarvasah  \ 
pasavo  mdnushdh  vrikshdh  pUdchdh  pisitdSandh  \  gandharvddydh  hra- 
menaiva  nirdagdhdh  hhdnu-hhdnulMh  \  ehdrnave  mahdghore  tamo-lhute 
samantatah  \  pushte  {?)  hy  ambhasi  yogdtmd  nirmalo  nirupapla/oah  \ 
sahasra-sirsMh  visvdtmd  sahasrdJcshah  sahasra-pdt  \  sahasrdbdhuh  sarvaj- 
nah  sarva-deva-hhavodhhavah  |  HiranyagarWio  raj'asd  tamasd  S'anka/rah 
svayam  \  sattvena  sarvago  Vishnuh  sarvdtmaive  Maheharah  |  hdldtmd 
Icdla-ndbhas  tu  iuklah  Icrishnas  tu  nirgunah  |  Ndrayano  mahdbdhuh 
sarvdtmd  sadasanmayah  \  tathd  bhutam  aham  drishtvd  saydnam  panlca- 
jehshanam  \  mdyayd  mohitas  tasya  tarn  avocham  amarshitah  |  has  tvam 
vadeti  hasfena  samutthdpya  sandtanam  \  tadd  hasta-praharena  tlvrem 
sa  dridhena  tu  |  prabuddho  ^Mya-iayandt  samdsinah  hshanam  vail  \ 
dadarsa  nidrd-vildinnam  nirajdmala-lochanah  \  mdm  agre  aamdhitam 
bhdsd' dhydsito  bhagavdn  Sarih  \  aha  ohotthdya  bhagavdn  hasan  mdm 
madhuram  sahrit  \  svdgatam  svdgatam  vatsa  pitdmaha  mahddyute  \  tasya 
tad  vachanam  irutvd  smita-purvam  surarshahhdh  |  rafasd  viddha-vairai 
cha  tarn  avoeham  Jandrdanam  \  bhdshase  vatsa  vatseti  sarga-samhdra- 
karanam  |  mdm  ihantah-smitam  kritvd  guruh  Ushyam  ivdnagha  \  kartd- 
ram  jagatdm  sdkshdt  prakritescha  pravartakam  \  sandtanam  ajam  Vtsh- 
nufh  Virinchim  viha-sambhavam  |  viSvdtmdnam  vidhdtdram  dhdtdram 
pankajehshanam  \  kimartham  bhdshase  mohdd  vaktum  arhasi  satvaram  | 
so  'pi  mdm  dha  jagatdm  kartd  'ham  iti  lokaya  \  bhartd  hartd  bhavdn 
angdd  avatirno  mamdvyaydt  \  vismrito  'si  jaganndtham  Ndrdyanam 
andmayam  \  purusham  paramdtmdnam  puru-hutam  purushtutam  \  VisJi- 
num  aohyutam  Udnam  vihasya  prabhavodbhavam  \  tavdpa/rddAo  ndsty  atra 
mama  mdyd-kritam  tv  idam  \  srinu  satyam  chaturvaktra  sarva-devesvaro 
hy  aham  |  kartd  netd  cha  hartd  cha  na  mayd  'sti  samo  vibhuh  \  aham  eva 
param  Brahma  param  tattvam  pitdmaha  \  aham  eva  paramjyotih  param- 
dtmd  tv  ahaffi  vibhuh  \  yad  yad  drishtaih  irutam  sarvafh  jagaty  asmins 
ehardcharam  |  tat  tad  viddhi  chaturvaktra  sarvam  manmayam  ity  atha  | 


OP  THE  IINGA  TO  BRAHMA  AND  VISHNTT.  387 

may  a  srishtam  purd  vyahtafh  ehatwvimhtikam  svayam  \  nitydntdh  Tiy 
anavo  haddhah  srishtdh  Icroihoilhmadayah  \  prasdddi  hi  hhavdn  anddny 
anekaniha  lllayd  \  srishtd  huddhir  maya  tasydm  ahanhdraa  tridhd  tatah  | 
tanmdtra-panchalcam  tasmdd  mano  dehendriydni  eha  \  dhdkddini  Ihutdni 
hhcmtikdni  eha  lilayd  \  ity  uhtavati  tasmims  cha  mayi  chdpi  vachas  tathd  \ 
dvmjos  chdlhavad  yuddham  sughorafh,  romaharshanam  \  pralaydrmva- 
madhye  tu  rafasd  haddha-vairayoh  \  etasminn  antare  lingam  abhavaoh 
chdvayoh  purah  |  vivada-iamandrtham  hi  prahodhdrtham  tathd"vayoh  \ 
jvdld-mdld-sahasradhyafft.  Icdlanala-satopamam  \  kshaya-vriddhi-vinirmulc- 
tam  ddi-madhydntorvarjitam  \  anaupamyam  anirdeiyam  cmyaldam  viiva- 
samhhavam  |  tasya  jvdld-sahasrena  mohito  Ihagavan  Harih  \  mohitam 
prdha  mdm  atra  parlkshdvo  ^ gni-sambhavam  |  adho  gamiihydmy  anala- 
siamlhasydmipamasya  cha  |  hhavan  urdhvam  prayatnena  gantum  arhasi 
(sic)  satvaram  \  evafh  vydhritya  visvdtmd  svarupam  akarot  tadd  \  vdrdham 
aham  apy  dSu  hamsatvam  praptamn  surdh  |  tadd-prahhriti  mdm  dhnr 
hamsam  hamso  virdd' iti  \  hafhm  hamseti  yo  hruydd  mdm  hamsah  sa 
ihavishyati.  \  suiveto  hy  analdksha^  cha  vihatah  paksha-samyutah  |  mano- 
'nila-jwoo  bhutvd  gato  'ham  chordhvatah  surdh  \  Ndrdyano  'pi  viivdtmd 
nildnjana-chayopamam  \  dasa-yojana-vistwnam  iata-yojanam  dyatam  \ 
Meru-panata-varshindnamgaura-tlkshndgra-dashtrinam\  kdlddiiya-sama- 
hhdsam  dirgha-ghonam  mahdsvanam  \  hrasva-pddam  vichitrdngam  jaitram 
dridham  anaupamam  \  vdrdham  asitam  rupam  dsihdya  gatavdn  adhah  \ 
evam  va/raha-sahasram  tu  tvaran  Vishnur  adho  gatah  \  ndpasyad  alpam 
apy  asya  mulam  lingasya  sukarah  \  tdvat  kdlam  gato  hy  Urdhvam  aham 
apy  arimdandh  \  satvaram  sarva-yatnena  tasydntam  jndtum  ichhayd  | 
krdnto.hy  adrishtvd  tasydntam  ahankdrdd'^^^  adho  gatah  |  tathaiva  hha- 
gavdn  Vishnuh  irdntah  samtrasta-locha/nah  \  sarva-deva-bhavas  turnam 
utthitah  sa  mahdvapuh  |  samdgato  mayd  sdrdham  pranipatya  mahd- 
mandh  ^^  \  mdyayd  mohitah  S'ambhos  tathd  samvigna-mdnasah  \  prishtha- 
tah  pdrhatas  chaiva  chdgratah  parame^varam  \  pranipatya  mayd  sdrdh- 
am sasmdra  him  idam  tv  iti  \  tadd  samabhavat  tatra  nddo  vai  iabda- 
lahshanah  \  om  om  iti  swa-iresh}hah  suvyaktah  pluta-lakshanah  \  kirn  idam 
tv  iti  sanchintya  mayd  tishthan  mahdsvanam  \  lingasya  dakshine  bhdge 
tadd  'paiyat  sandtanam  \  ddyam  varnam  a-kdram  tu  u-kdram  chottare 
tatah  \  ma-kdram  madhytai  chaiva  ndddntam  tasya  charm  iti  \ 

"'  In  a  transcript  of  tkis  passage  made  for  me  in  India,  and  published  in  my 
MatapctnhsKa,  the  reading  is  aham  kalad,  which  seems  a  preferable  reading. 
1"  Bhayad  ┬╗┬╗mA┬ФAРђћ reading  in  the  Matapariksha. 


388  VISHNtr  BOUSED  FEOM  SLEEP  BY  BEAHMA; 

"  Pitamaha  (Brahma,  in  answer  to  an  inquiry  of  the  gods  and  rishis) 
says:  'Pradhana  (nature)  is  called  the  Linga,  and  ParameiSvara  is 
called  Lingin'"  (the  sustainer  of  the  Linga).  It  arose  for  the  preser- 
vation of  myself  and  Vishnu  in  the  ocean,  0  deities.  "When  the 
Vaimanika  "*  creation  had  proceeded  with  the  rishis  to  the  Janaloka,"' 
and  when Рђћ the  period  of  the  continuance  [of  the  world]  having  then 
been  completed, Рђћ [all  things]  had  been  absorbed,  at  the  end  of  the 
thousand  sets  of  four  yugas,  and  had  departed  to  the  Satyaloka Рђћ 
I,  Brahma,  being  at  length  reduced  to  a  condition  of  equality  [with 
other  creatures]  without  dominion  over  them,"'  and  all  immovable 
things  having  become  altogether  dried  up  from  want  of  rain, Рђћ ^beasts, 
men,  trees,  Pisachas,  flesh-eating  goblins,  Gandharvas,  etc.,  were  by 
degrees  burnt  up  by  the  rays  of  the  sun.  The  one  awful  ocean  being 
everywhere  enveloped  in  darkness,  the  great-armed  Narayana,  the  soul 
of  aU  things,  formed  of  existence  and  non-existence,  sleeps  "'  upon  the 
water,  plunged  in  contemplation,  spotless,  tranquil,  thousand-headed, 
the  soul  of  the  universe,  thousand-eyed,  thousand-footed,  thousand- 
armed,  omniscient,  the  source  of  the  existence  of  all  the  gods,  he  who 
is  himself  through  passion  (rajas)  Hiranyagarbha,  through  darkness 
{tamas)  S'ankara,  through  goodness  [sattva)  the  all-pervading  Vishnu, 
and  in  his  universality  Mahe^vara,  having  the  character  of  time,  having 
time  for  his  centre,""  white,  black,  free  from  the  three  qualities,  the 
great-armed  Narayana,  the  universal  soul,  having  the  essence  both  of 
entity  and  non-entity.  Beholding  the  lotus- eyed  deity  in  this  condition, 
sleeping,  I,  deluded  by  his  iUusion,  touching  the  eternal  being  with 
my  hand,  impatient,  said  to  him,  '  Who  art  thou  ?  speak.'    Koused 

"^  Zingadhishthanam  \  Comm. 

1*'  Vaimamke  sarge  deva-mrge  \  Comm. 

UY  <i  Tiig  different  accounts  agree  in  stating  that  wlien  the  three  lower  spheres  are 
consumed  by  fire,  Maharloka  is  deserted  by  its  tenants,  who  repair  to  the  next  sphere, 
or  Jana-loka.  Jana-loka,  according  to  the  Vayu,  is  the  residence  of  the  rishis  and 
demigods  during  the  night  of  Brahma,"  etc. Рђћ Wilson,  Vishnu  Puiana,  p.  213,  note; 
see  also  the  same  work,  p.  632,  and  note  7  ( =pp.  227  ff.,  vol.  ii.,  and  pp.  192  ff.,  vol. 
V.  of  Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 

"9  Zit.  "  the  end  of  me,  Brahma,  having  come  to  equality  without  dominion." 

"9  The  reading  of  the  Bombay  text  is  here  puahte ;  but  some  such  word  as  iete, 
"sleeps,"  seems  to  be  required  by  the  sense. 

1Рёб  KalSnabha  is  the  term  in  the  original.  Perhaps  the  proper  reading  may  be 
Kalanatha,  "the  lord  of  time,"  which  occurs  in  the  Mahabharata,  S'antip.  10368. 
See  Bohtlingk  and  Both  a.v. 


DISPUTE  BETWEEN  THE  TWO  GODS.  389 

hj  the  strong  and  violent  stroke  of  my  hand  from  his  snaky  couch, 
sitting  for  a  moment,  self-restrained,  the  deity  whose  eyes  are  pure  as 
the  lotus  looked  up  heavy  with  drowsiness.  The  divine  Hari,  invested 
hy  lustre,  seeing  me  standing  before  him,  rising  up,  said  to  me,  sweetly 
smiling  at  the  same  time,  '"Welcome,  welcome,  my  chUd,  the  glorious 
Pitamaha.'  Hearing  these  words  of  his,  accompanied  hy  a  smile,  0 
deities,  my  ill  will  being  excited  by  passion  {rty'as),  I  said  to  Janardana 
(Vishnu) :  '  Dost  thou,  0  sinless  god,  like  a  teacher  speaking  to  his 
pupil,  smiling  inwardly,  address  the  words  '  child,  child,'  to  me  [who 
am]  the  cause  of  creation  and  destruction,  the  undisputed  maker  of  the 
worlds,  and  the  mover  of  Prakriti  (nature),  the  eternal,  unborn, 
Vishnu,'"  Virinchi,  the  source  and  soul  of  all  things,  the  disposer, 
the  upholder,  the  lotus-eyed?  Why  dost  thou  foolishly  address  me 
thus?  Tell  me  quickly.'  He  said  to  me,  'Perceive  that  I  am  the 
maker,  the  preserver,  the  destroyer  of  the  worlds;  thou  hast  issued 
from  my  imperishable  body.  Thou  hast  forgotten  the  lord  of  the 
world,  the  potent  Narayana,  Purusha,  the  supreme  Spirit,  invoked  of 
many,  lauded  of  many,  Vishnu,  the  undecaying,  the  lord,  the  source 
and  origin  of  the  universe.  In  this  there  is  no  fault  of  thine :  it 
arises  from  my  illusion.  Listen  to  the  truth,  0  four-faced  deity :  I 
am  the  lord  of  all  the  gods,  the  maker,  the  director,  the  destroyer; 
there  is  none  equal  to  me,  all-pervading.  I,  even  I,  0  Pitamaha,  am 
the  supreme  Brahma,  the  supreme  reality,  the  supreme  light,  the 
supreme  spirit,  all-pervading.  Whatever  thing,  movable  or  immov- 
able, has  been  seen  or  heard  of  in  this  world,  know,  0  four-faced 
deity,  that  it  is  all  formed  of  me.  By  me  of  old  has  been  created 
everything  that  is  discernible,  consisting  of  the  twenty-four  principles; 
the  atoms,  which  in  their  ultimate  [and  most  subtile]  form  are  eternal, 
have  been  united;  and  the  beings  sprung  from  my  wrath"*  (Rudra), 
etc.,  have  been  created.  From  my  complacence  thou  and  numerous 
(mundane)  eggs  have  been  formed  in  sport.  Intelligence  {buddhi)  has 
been  created  by  me  in  sport,  and  then  from  it  three-fold  ahankara : 
from  it  the  five  tanmatras,  and  thence  mind,  with  the  bodily  senses,  as 
also  ether  and  the  other  elements,  and  things  formed  of  the  elements.' 
As  soon  as  he  and  I  had  thus  spoken,  a  direM  and  terrific  fight  arose 

!'Рђб  Brahma  here  assumes  this  character  as  belonging  to  himself. 
1"  See  above,  pp.  230  and  266  f. 


390  APPARITION  OF  THE  LINGA. 

in  the  sea  of  universal  dissolution  "'  between  us  twain,  whose  enmity 
had  been  roused  by  passion.  At  this  time  there  appeared  before  us, 
to  stay  our  contention  and  admonish  us,  a  luminous  Linga,  encircled 
with  a  thousand  wreaths  of  flame,  equal  to  a  hundred  final  mundane 
conflagrations,  incapable  of  diminution  or  increase,  without  beginning, 
middle,  or  end,  incomparable,  indescribable,  undefinable,  the  source  of 
all  things.  Bewildered  by  its  thousand  flames,  the  divine  Hari  said 
to  me  (Brahma)  who  was  myself  bewildered,  'Let  us  on  the  spot 
examine  the  source  of  [this]  fire.  I  will  go  down  the  unequalled 
piUar  of  fire,  and  thou  shouldst  quickly  proceed  strenuously  upwards.' 
Having  thus  spoken,  the  universal-formed  took  the  shape  of  a  boar, 
and  I  immediately  assumed  the  character  of  a  swan."*  Ever  since 
then  men  call  me  Hansa  (swan),  for  Hansa  is  Viraj."*  Whoever  shall 
call  me  '  Hansa,  Hansa,'  shall  become  a  Hansa  (unimpassioned  saint). 
Having  become  purely  white,  and  fiery-eyed,  with  wings  on  every  side, 
rapid  as  thought  and  as  the  wind,  I  went  upwards.  Narayana  too, 
the  soul  of  all  things,  having  taken  the  dark  form  of  a  boar,  like  a 
heap  of  blue  coUyrium,  ten  yojanas  broad  and  a  hundred  yojanas  long, 
bulky  as  mount  Meru,  with  white  sharp-pointed  tusks,  luminous  as 
the  sun  of  mundane  destruction,  long-snouted,  loud-grunting,  short- 
footed,  wondrous-limbed,  victorious,  strong,  incomparable,  proceeded 
downwards.  Speeding  thus  downwards  for  a  thousand  years,  Vishnu, 
the  boar,  beheld  no  base  at  all  of  the  Linga.  Eor  the  same  period  I 
went  rapidly  upwards,  0  destroyers  of  your  foes,  with  all  my  might, 
desirous  of  learning  its  end ;  but  I  descended  from  the  lapse  of  time, 
without  seeing  its  end ;  and  so,  too,  the  divine  Vishnu  of  vast  bulk, 
the  source  of  all  the  gods,  worn  out,  with  affrighted  look,  ascended 
rapidly.  Meeting  with  me,  that  magnanimous  deity,  prostrating  him- 
self, bewildered  by  the  illusion  of  S'ambhu  (S'iva),  and  disturbed  in 
mind,  bowing,  along  with  me,  before  Paramesvara  (S'iva),  behind, 
at  the  side,  and  in  front,  exclaimed,  '  "What  is  this  ? '  Then,  0  chief 
of  the  gods,  there  arose  there  the  articulate  sound  "om,  om,"  distinct 
and  protracted.     Considering  what  this  could  be,  he  then,  standing 

'^'  See  the  commencement  of  this  extract. 

'5┬Ф  In  the  5th  and  6th  sections  of  the  S'iva-purana  "it  is  explained  in  a  puerile 
and  inept  manner  why  Brahma  took  the  form  of  a  swan  and  Yishnu  of  a  boar." 
Рђћ Aufreoht's  Catalogue  of  the  Bodl.  Sansk.  MSS.,  p.  63*. 

155  See  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  9  and  36. 


FUETHEE  QUOTATION  FEOM  THE  LINGA  EtJEANA.         391 

Рќаwith  me,  beheld  this  eternal  loud-resounding  [monosyllable]  upon  the 
right  side  of  the  Linga;  the  first  letter  a-kara,  after  it  u-kara,  ma- 
kara  in  the  centre,  and  Om  as  the  result  of  the  sounds.'  " 

This  is  followed  by  a  great  deal  of  mysticism  about  the  letters  of  the 
word  om  and  the  other  letters  of  the  alphabet,  etc.,  etc. 

The  eighteenth  section  of  the  same  Parana  contains  a  hymn  ad- 
dressed by  Vishnu  to  Eudra,  which  recites  a  list  of  the  attributes  of 
the  latter  deity.  Mahadeva  is  gratified  with  this  hymn,  and  teUs 
Brahma  and  Vishnu  that  they  had  both  sprung  from  him,  ofi'ers  them 
a  boon,  and  touches  them  with  his  auspicious  hands.  Narayana  asks 
as  a  boon  that  they  may  both  entertain  an  eternal  devotion  for  him ; 
which  Mahadeva  aa  a  matter  of  course  grants.  I  cite  the  verses  which 
follow,  in  the  original : 

Linga  Purana,  19,  8  ff. Рђћ Janubhyam  avanlfn  gatva  punar  Nardyamh 
smyam  \  pranipatya  cha  Viheiam  prdha  mandataram  vail  \  "dvayor  deva- 
deveia  vivadam  aii-iobkanam  \  ihdgato  Ihavan  yasmdd  mvdda-iamandya 
nau  "  I  tasya  tad-vaehanam,  srutvd  punah  prdha  Haro  Harim  \  pranipatya 
sthitam  murdhnd  Icritdnjali-putam  smayan  \  S'rl-mahddevah  uvacha  \  pra- 
laya-sthiti-sargdnam  kartd  tvafn  dharanipate  \  vatsa  vatsa  Hare  Vislino 
palayaitaoh  chardcharam  \  tridhd  IMnno  hy  aham  Vishno  Brahma-  Vishnu- 
Bhavdkhyaya  \  sarga-rahshd-laya-gunair  nishlcalah parameivarah  \  sammo- 
ham  tyaja  hho  Vishno  pdlayainam  Pitdmaham  \  pddme  Ihavishyati  sutah 
kalpe  tava  Pitdmahah  \  tadd  drahshyasi  mdm  chaivam  so  'pi  drahhyati 
padma-jah  \  evam  uhtva  sa  hhagavdrhs  tatraivdntaradhiyata  \  tadd-pra- 
hhriti  lohesJiu  lingdrchd  supratishthita,  I  linga-vedl  Mahddevi  lingam 
sdkshdd  Maheharah  \  "  The  self-restraining  Narayana,  falling  on  his 
knees  on  the  ground,  and  having  made  obeisance  to  Vi^ve^a  (S'iva), 
spoke  gently  thus :  '  Our  dispute,  0  god  of  gods,  has  proved  most  auspi- 
cious,'''^  since  thou  hast  come  hither  to  allay  it.'  Having  heard  these 
words,  Hara  (S'iva),  smiling,  again  said  to  Hari  (Vishnu),  who  stood 
making  obeisance  with  his  hands  joined  :  '  Thou,  lord  of  the  earth,  art 
the  author  of  the  creation,  continuance  and  destruction  [of  the  uni- 


'^5  I  cannot  render  this  sentence,  as  it  stands,  otherwise  than  by  taking  vivadam 
for  a  neuter  nominative,  though  nouns  of  this  formation  are  masculine.  The  com- 
mentator explains  sobhanam  as  meaning  vihayor  a/^i  sama-lalaUaeh  ehhobhamanam,, 
"brilliant  from  the  equal  powers  of  the  two  combatants";  and  supplies  iamaya, 
"appease,  or  stop,  it"  {atalp  iamaya  ity  adhyaharali). 


392        BIETH  .OF  RUDEA  ACCOEDING  TO  THE  VISHNTT  P. 

verse] :  my  child,  my  child,  Hari,  Vishnu,  preserve  all  this  moving  and 
stationary  world.  I,  the  undivided  supreme  lord,  am  divided  in  a  three- 
fold manner  under  the  names  of  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  Bhava,  possess- 
ing the  attributes  of  creating,  preserving,  and  destroying.  Eelinquish, 
Vishnu,  thy  delusion;  cherish  this  Pitamaha.  He  shall  be  thy  son  in 
the  Padma  Ealpa.  Then  shalt  thou  behold  me,  and  he  also  who  sprang 
from  the  lotus  (Brahma)  shall  see  me.'  Having  thus  spoken,  the 
deity  vanished.  Thenceforward  the  worship  of  the  Linga  has  been 
inaugurated  in  the  worlds.  The  pedestal  of  the  Linga  is  Mahadevi 
(Uma),  and  the  Linga  is  the  visible  Mahesvara." 

The  reader  will  probably  Ije  of  opinion  that  this  story  does  not  throw 
much  light  on  the  real  origin  of  the  Linga- worship. 

The  Vishnu  Purana  (i.  7,  6  ff.)  does  not  assign  a  high  rank  to  Budra; 
but  makes  him  the  offspring  of  Brahma  (as  the  Mahabharata,  quoted 
above,  p.  230  and  266  f.,  makes  him  of  Vishnu) :  Sanandanadayo  ye  cha 
purvafh  srishtas  tu  Vedhasa  \  na  te  lokeshv  astyjantanirapekshahprajdsu  te\ 
sane  te  cliagata-jnanah  vita-rdgah  vimatsardh  |  teshv  evam  nirapeksheahu 
loka-srishtau  mahatmanah  \  Brahmano  'bhud  mahakrodhas  trailoiya- 
dahana-kshamah  \  tasya  krodhdt  samudhhuta-j'vdld-mdld-vidlpitam  |  Brah- 
mano 'hhut  tadd  sarvam  iraihkyam  akhilam  mune  \  hhruhutl-kutildt  tasya 
laldtdt  krodha-dlpitdt  \  samutpannas  tadd  Rudro  madhydhndrka-sama- 
prahkah\  ardha-ndri-nara-vapuh  prachando  'ti-iariravdn  \  "mlhydtmd- 
nam"  ity  uktvd  tam  Brahmd  'ntardadhe  punah  \  tathokto  'sau  dvidhd 
strltvam  purushatvarh  iathd  'karot  |  hibheda  purushatvam  cha  daiadhd 
chaikadha  cha  sah  \  saumydsaumyais  tatha  idntdidntaih  strltvam  cha  sa 
prahhuh  \  libheda  bahudhd  devah  svarupair  asitaih  sitaih  \  "Sanandana 
and  the  others  who  were  before  created  by  Vedhas  (Brahma)  had  no 
regard  for  the  worlds,  and  were  indifferent  about  offspring,  for  they  had 
all  attained  to  knowledge,  and  were  free  frpm  love  and  from  hatred.  As 
they  were  thus  indifferent  to  the  creation  of  worlds,  the  mighty  Brahma 
was  filled  with  fierce  anger,  sufficient  to  burn  up  the  three  worlds.  The 
three  worlds  were  illuminated  in  every  part  by  the  wreaths  of  flame 
engendered  from  the  wrath  of  the  god.  From  his  forehead,  wrinkled 
with  a  frown  and  inflamed  with  anger,  Rudra  then  sprang  forth, 
glorious  as  the  noonday  sun,  his  body  half  male  and  half  female,  fierce, 
and  huge  in  bulk.  Brahma  disappeared  after  saying  to  him,  '  Divide 
thyself.'    Being  thus  addressed,  he  severed  himself  into  twain,  into 


RESULTS  OF  THE  PRECEDING  SECTIONS.  393 

a  male  and  a  female  body.  The  god  then  divided  his  male  form  into 
eleven  portions,  gentle  and  ungentle ;  and  in  like  manner  his  female 
body  into  many  forms  black  and  white."  "' 

In  the  same  way  the  Harivan^a  says  (v.  43) :  Tato  'srij'at  punar 
Brahma  jRudram  roshatma-sambhmam  \  "Then  Brahma  next  created 
lludra,  the  offspring  of  his  anger." 

Sect,  VII. Рђћ Results  of  the  preceding  Sections. 

The  various  texts  quoted  in  Sections  i.-iv.  (pp.  299-355)  from  the 
Rig-,  the  Tajur-,  and  Atharva-vedas,  and  from  the  Brahmanas,  relative 
to  Eudra,  compose  the  principal  materials  which  we  possess  for  forming 
an  idea  of  the  characteristics  ascribed  to  that  deity  in  the  more  ancient 
portions  of  Indian  literature  anterior  to  the  composition  of  the  Epic 
poems  and  Puranas.  The  TJpanishads  from  which  I  have  derived  the 
mystical  extracts  given  in  the  fifth  section  (pp.  355  ff.)  are  of  uncertain 
date,  and  their  contents  throw  but  little  light  on  the  development  of 
the  worship  of  Eudra.  The  extracts  which  I  have  given  from  the 
Eamayana  and  Mahabharata  in  chapter  ii.  (pp.  176  f.,  184  ff.,  223-226, 
230  ff.,  240  f.,  263,  266  ff.,  278  ff.,  and  283-291),  and  in  the  last  sec- 
tion, while  they  contain  some  of  the  earliest  descriptions  of  which  I  am 
aware,  of  Eudra  in  the  new,  and  very  different,  aspect  in  which  he  has 
been  conceived  in  the  later  ages  of  Hindu  mythology,  since  he  has  come 
to  be  identified  with  S'iva  or  Mahadeva,  are  yet  unfitted  to  elucidate 
the  process  by  which  he  became  elevated  to  the  highest  rank  in  the 
Indian  pantheon.  I  shall,  however,  draw  from  these  texts  a  summary 
of  the  attributes  which  they  respectively  assign  to  Eudra,  which 
will  exhibit  the  modifications  which  the   conception   of  this  deity 

"'  See  Professor  'Wilson's  notes  on  this  passage,  V.  P.,  2nd  ed.,  vol.  i.,  p.  103,  fif. 
The  S'autiparvan  of  the  Mahabharata  also  speaks  (vv.  13723  ff.)  of  Mahadeva,  the 
three-eyed,  and  the  great  devotee,  as  having  sprung  from  the  forehead  of  Brahma, 
of  his  coining  to  visit  his  father  on  the  mountain  Vaijayanta,  and  of  his  saluting 
him  respectfully,  falling  at  his  feet,  and  being  raised  up  by  him  with  his  left  hand. 
Brahma  then  proceeds  to  unfold  to  him  the  nature  of  Purusha.  {Atha  tatrasatas 
taiya  Chatarvaktraaya  dhlmatah  \  lalata-prabAmiah  putrah  S'ivah  agad  yadrichhaya  | 
ahasena  mahayogl  pura  trinayanah  prahhuh  \  tatah  khad  nipapatalu  dharanldhara- 
murdhani  |  agratai  chahhavat  prlto  vavcmde  ehapi  padayoh  \  tam  padayor  nipalitam 
drishtva  savyena  panina  |  utthapayamasa  tada  prabhur  ekah  Frajapatih  |  mScha 
ehainam  ihagmams  chirasyagatam  atmajam.) 


394  REMARKS  OF  PEOFESSOE  H.  H.  "WILSON 

undergoes  in  the  later,  as  compared  with  the  earlier,  passages.  To  my 
own  remarks  on  this  subject,  however,  I  shall  prefix  some  observations 
by  Professors  H.  H.  Wilson,  Weber,  and  Whitney,  on  the  character  of 
the  Vedic  Eudra. 

The  following  remarks  by  Professor  Wilson  are  extracted  from  the 
Introductions  to  the  first  and  second  volumes  of  his  translation  of  the 
Eig-veda  (published,  vol.  i.,  1st  ed.,  in  1850,  and  2nd  ed.  in  1866;  and 
vol.  ii.  in  1854)  : 

"  We  have  a  Eudra,  who,  in  after-times,  is  identified  with  S'iva,  but 
who,  even  in  the  Puranas,  is  of  very  doubtful  origin  and  identification ; 
whilst  in  the  Veda  he  is  described  as  the  father  of  the  winds,  and  is 
evidently  a  form  of  either  Agni  or  Indra.  The  epithet  haparddm 
which  is  applied  to  him  appears,  indeed,  to  have  some  relation  to  a 
characteristic  attribute  of  S'iva, Рђћ the  wearing  of  his  hair  in  a  peculiar 
braid;  but  the  term  has  probably  in  the  Veda  a  very  different  significa- 
tionРђћ one  now  forgotten, Рђћ although  it  may  have  suggested  in  after- 
time  the  appearance  of  S'iva  in  such  a  head-dress,  as  identified  with 
Agni;  for  instance,  haparMin  may  intimate  his  head  being  surrounded 
by  radiating  flame,  or  the  word  may  be  an  interpolation ;  at  any  rate, 
no  other  epithet  applicable  to  S'iva  occurs,  and  there  is  not  the  slightest 
allusion  to  the  form  in  which,  for  the  last  ten  centuries  at  least,  he 
seems  to  have  been  alniost  exclusively  worshipped  in  India,  that  of  the 
Linga  or  Phallus  :  neither  is  there  the  slightest  hint  of  another  impor- 
tant feature  of  later  Hinduism, Рђћ the  Trimurtti,  or  Tri-une  combination 
of  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  S'iva,  as  typified  by  the  mystical  syllable  om, 
although,  according  to  high  authority  on  the  religions  of  antiquity, 
the  Trimurtti  was  the  first  element  in  the  faith  of  the  Hindus,  and  the 
second  was  Vae  Lingam."  ^^┬░Рђћ (vol.  i,,  pp.  xxvi.,  xxvii.) 

"  Of  Eudra  also,  the  character  is  equivocal ;  but  it  may  be  doubted 
if  it  partakes  in  any  remarkable  degree  of  that  fierceness  and  wrath 
which  belong  to  the  Eudra  of  a  later  date ;  he  is  termed,  it  is  true,  the 
slayer  of  heroes,  but  so  is  Indra :  the  effects  of  his  anger  upon  men  and 
animals  are  deprecated ;  but  he  is  also  appealed  to  as  wise  and  bounti- 
ful, the  author  of  fertility  and  giver  of  happiness,  and  his  peculiar 
characteristics  are  evidently  his  presiding  over  medicinal  plants  and 
removal  of  disease,  attributes  of  a  beneficent,  not  of  a  malignant  and 

158  Creuzer,  Beligions  de  I'antiquitd,  book  i.,  chap,  i.,  p.  UO. 


ON  THE  CHAEACTER  OF  EUDEA.  895 

irascible  deity.  As  above  remarked,  the  Maruts,  or  winds,  are  termed 
his  sons;"'  and  this  relationship  -would  assimilate  him  to  Indra.  There 
is  also  a  class  of  inferior  deities,  termed  Eudras,  who  in  one  passage  are 
worshippers  of  Agni,  and  in  another  are  followers  of  Indra ;  being  the 
same  as  the  Maruts.  So  far,  therefore,  Eudra  might  be  identified  with 
Indra;  but  we  have  the  name  applied  unequivocally  to  Agni  in  a' hymn 
exclusively  dedicated  to  that  divinity  (E.  V.'  i.  27,  10).  The  term 
denotes,  according  to  the  Scholiast,  the  'terrible  Agni';  but  there  is  no 
warrant  for  this  in  the  text,  and  we  may  be  content,  therefore,  with 
the  latter,  to  regard  Eudra  as  a  form  or  denomination  of  fire." Рђћ {Hid. 
pp.  xxxvii.  f.) 

"  Eudra  is  described,  as  in  the  first  book,  by  rather  incompatible 
qualities,  as  both  fierce  and  beneficent;  but  his  specific  province  is  here 
also  the  tutelarship  of  medicinal  plants,  and  administration  of  medicine, 
and  he  is  designated  as  a  physician  of  physicians  (E.  T.  ii.  33,  4). 
With  respect  also  to  his  presiding  over  medicinal  plants,  there  occurs  a 
passage  worthy  of  note,  as  among  the  herbs  are  those,  it  is  said,  which 
Manu  selected,  alluding,  most  probably,  to  the  seeds  of  the  plants  which 
Manu,  according  to  the  legend  as  related  in  the  Mahabharata,  took 
with  him  into  his  vessel  at  the  time  of  the  deluge.  There  are  more 
particulars  of  the  person  of  Eudra  than  usual.  He  is  sometimes  said  to 
be  brown  or  tawny,  but  he  is  also  said  to  be  white-oomplexioned  (E.V. 
ii.  33,  8) ;  he  is  soft-bellied  and  handsome-chinned ;  he  is  armed  with 
a  bow  and  arrows,  and  brilliant  with  golden  ornaments.  He  is  also 
called  the  father  of  the  Maruts.  There  is  little,  however,  in  all  this, 
except  his  fierceness,  to  identify  him  with  the  Eudra  of  the  Puranas." 
Рђћ (vol.  ii.,  pp.  ix.  f.) 

The  following  interesting  and  ingenious  speculations  of  Professor 
"Weber  are  translated  from  his  Indische  Studien,  ii.,  19-22  (published 
in  1853): 

"In  the  beginning  of  the  ninth  book  of  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (see 
above,  p.  347  f.),  we  obtain  a  complete  explanation  of  the  S'atarudriya 
(see  above,  p.  322  ff.).  When  the  preparation  of  the  consecrated  place  for 
kindling  the  fire  is  completed  {chity-upadMna-parisamapty-anantarijam, 
Sdi/ana),  and  the  fire  has  been  kindled,  and  blazes  up  {iipyamdm 

>*'  See  ffce  Section  on  tte  Maruts  in  the  fifth  vol.  of  this  work,  pp.  147  ff. 


396  REMARKS  OF  PROFESSOR  "WEBER  ON  THE 

Hishthat),  the  gods  (i.e.  the  Brahmans  ^┬░)  are  terrified  by  it,  yad  vai  no 
'yarn,  na  Mmsyad  iti  ('lest  it  should  destroy  us') :  and  with  the  view  of 
appeasing  this  [howling,  hungry]  flame,  which  is  conceived  of  as  in  the 
form  of  Eudra,  i.e.  to  consecrate  and  propitiate  the  fire,  they  offer  their 
adoration  to  Eudra,  and  to  his  supposed  troop  of  associates, '┬╗.┬Ф.  to  all 
conceivable  shapesof  terror,  and  by  this  means  render  them  favourable, 
and  avert  aU  their  malevolent  influences.  Hence  the  Brahmana  ex- 
plains iata-rudriya  by  idnta-rudriya  (as  gata  comes  from  the  root  gam); 
a  double  sense,  which  may  perhaps  have  actually  been,  though  in- 
distinctly, contemplated,  when  the  name  was  first  given."'  In  this 
application  of  Eudra  as  the  god  of  fire  (independently  of  the  other  contents 
of  the  S'atarudriya),  we  may  find  an  indication  of  the  time  when  it  was 
composed.  Though  Eudra  originally  signifies  generally  the  howler, 
and  consequently  can  stand  as  well  for  an  epithet  of  the  crackling  fire 
as  of  the  raging  storm,  yet  in  the  earliest  period  the  word  had  been 
more  specially  used  to  denote  the  latter  signification,  and  is  therefore 
frequently  used  in  the  Eig-veda  in  the  plural  as  an  epithet  of  the 
Maruts.  The  unbridled  fury  {manyu)  of  the  storm,  its  roaring,  its 
tearing  up  {aufwuMen)  of  heaven  and  earth,"^  must  have  produced  a 
strong  and  overpowering  effect  upon  the  Arian  Indians  in  the  high 
mountain  valleys  (perhaps  of  Kashmir)  in  which  we  must  conceive  them 
to  have  lived  at  that  early  period;  and  it  was  thus  in  the  natural 
course  of  things  that  they  should  connect  everything  terrible  and  horri- 
ble with  the  idea  of  the  god  of  storms,  and  regard  him  as  the  lord,  and 
the  cause,  of  every  evil : "'  numberless,  indeed,  were  these  aerial  hosts, 
black,  pierced  only  by  the  quivering  gleams  of  the  lightning,  diffusing 
everywhere  shuddering  and  horror. 

"It  is  true  that  Eudra  'is  also  appealed  to  as  wise  and  bountiful,  the 

160  II  jn  the  Brahmanas  the  thoughts  of  men  are  very  frequently  put  into  the 
mouths  of  the  gods.  For  instance,  when  the  gods  go  to  Prajapati,  and  request  him 
to  solve  any  difficulty,  this  is  merely  a  transcendental  expression  for  the  fact  of  a  few 
wise  men  applying  for  instruction  to  one  still  wiser  than  themselves." 

161  "The  Arshadhyaya  of  the  Gharayanlya  School  of  the  Kathaka  also  (ii.  17)  says: 
S'atarudriyam  devanam  Eudra-sammittn."  'The  S'atarudriya  is  an  appeasing  of 
Rudra  by  the  gods.' 

162  i<  Hence  in  the  R.V.  i.  114,  6,  he  is  also  called  varaha,  "  boar,"  as  the  stoim- 
clouds  too  are  elsewhere  conceived  under  the  same  image  "  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  272,  note). 

163  "  In  R.V.  i.  1 1 4 ;  ii.  33.  Hence,  too,  seven  verses  from  these  hymns  are  incor- 
porated in  the  S'atarudriya." 


S'ATAETJDRITA  AND  ON  THE  IDEA  OF  ETJDBA.  397 

author  of  fertility,  and  giver  of  happiness;""  but  it  is  only  indirectly 
that  he  is  so  addressed,  and  merely  because  he  departs,  and  directs  his 
destroying  arrows  towards  some  other  quarter,  against  the  enemies  of 
the  suppliant,  and  leaves  the  latter  himself  in  peace ;  the  worshipper 
flatters  him  with  fair  words,  as  if  he  were  purely  benevolent,  to  pacify 
his  anger,  and  to  render  him  gracious  {iiva);  and  he  only  appears 
directly  beneficent  in  so  far  as  he  chases  away  clouds  and  vapours, 
purifies  and  clears  the  atmosphere ;  in  reference  to  this  he  is  called  a 
physician,  and  moreover  acquainted  with  healing  herbs :  but  he  carries 
also  diseases  and  contagions  themselves  as  arrows  in  his  quiver,  and 
slays  therewith  men  and  cattle. 

"In  the  crackling  flame  of  the  fire,  now,  men  thought  that  they 
heard  again  the  wrathful  voice  of  the  storm,  that  in  the  consuming 
fierceness  of  the  former,  they  perceived  once  more  the  destructive  fury 
of  the  latter.  In  this  way  we  have  to  explain  how  it  happened  that 
both  deities  became  gradually  identified,  and  lent  their  respective  epi- 
thets to  one  another,  particularly  as  at  the  same  time  the  storm  is,  in 
bad  weather,  accompanied  with  gleaming  and  fiery  lightnings.  This 
identification  seems  to  have  extended  not  merely  to  Agni  and  Eudra 
themselves,  but  also  to  the  Kudras,  in  so  far  as  the  latter,  from  being 
the  raging  and  flaming  companions  of  the  storm,  appear  to  have  become 
the  representatives  of  all  sorts  of  terrific  shapes  in  general,  until  in  the 
epic  period  they  retired  completely  into  the  background,  while  their 
ancient  master,  Eudra,  in  his  combination  with  Agni,  became  con- 
tinually more  firmly  condensed  as  the  god  of  rage  and  destruction,  and 
a  new  class  of  beings  took  the  place  of  the  Rudras  as  attendants  upon 
him  (in  his  capacity  of  S'iva). 

"At  the  period  when  the  Rudra-book  (the  S'atarudriya)  was  com- 
posed, the  blending  of  the  two  destructive  deities  (Storm  and  Fire)  had 
evidently  taken  place;  and  the  epithets  which  are  there  assigned  to 
Rudra  lead  us  back  partly  to  himself,  and  partly  to  Agni.  The  epithets 
'dweller  in  the  mountains'  {gi/riia,  girUaya,  giri&anta,  giritra),  and 
those  of  kapardin,  vyupla-Jceia,  ugra,  and  hhlma,  hhishaj  and  Mva, 
samhhu  and  ianlcara,  belong  to  the  Storm,  while  on  the  other  hand 
those  of  mla-griva  {==nilakantha,  spoken  of  smoke),  Htikantha,  hiranya- 
hahu  (of  flame),  mlohita,  sahasraksha  (of  sparks),  paiupali  (of  sacrificial 

164  "Wilson,  Introd.  to  Trans,  of  E,V.,  vol.  i.,  quoted  above,  j,  394. 


398  REMARKS  OF  PROFESSOR  "WHITNEY  ~ 

victims),  ^arva  and  ihava,  etc.,  belong  to  Fire.  Now  almost  all  these 
epithets  '*'  are  technical  epithets  and  characteristics  of  the  epic  S'iva, 
and  when  applied  to  him  are  partially  unintelligible,  and  become 
explicable  only  after  they  have  been  distinguished  according  to  the 
two  separate  elements  to  whose  combination  this  god  owes  his  origin.Рёб 
But  as  in  the  Eudra-book  Rudra  nowhere  appears  as  Isa  or  Mahadeva, 
and  no  character  is  assigned  to  him  analogous  to  that  of  the  epic  S'iva; 
and  as  the  word  Szva  is  applied  to  him  simply  as  an  epithet  (with  its 
comparative  Mvatara  annexed) ;  the  book  in  question  must  in  any  ease 
be  held  to  date  from  an  earlier  epoch  of  the  Indian  religion,  whilst  its 
elevation  to  the  rank  of  an  Upanishad  may  only  have  taken  place  in  the 
epic  period,  and  have  been  occasioned  by  the  special  worship  of  S'iva.' ' 

The  following  remarks  of  Professor  Whitney  on  the  same  subject  are 
taken  from  the  Journal  of  the,.  American  Oriental  Society,  vol.  iii., 
p.  318  f.  (published  in  1853);  and  are  reprinted  in  the  volume  entitled 
"Oriental  and  Linguistic  Studies,"  published  by  their  author  in  1873: 

"To  the  second  domain,  the  atmosphere,  belong  the  various  divini- 
ties of  the  wind  and  storm.  God  of  the  breeze,  the  gentler  motion 
of  the  air,  is  Vayii  (from  the  root  vd,  'blow').  He  drives  a  thousand 
steeds ;  his  breath  chases  away  the  demons ;  he  comes  in  the  earliest 
morning,  as  the  first  breath  of  air  that  stirs  itself  at  daybreak,  to  drink 
the  soma,  and  the  Auroras  weave  for  him  shining  garments.  The 
storm-winds  are  a  troop,  the  Maruts  or  Eudras :  the  two  names  are 
indifferently  used,  but  the  former  is  much  the  more  usual  (the  ety- 
mology of  neither  is  fuUy  established).  They  drive  spotted  stags, 
wear  shining  armour,  and  carry  spears  in  their  hands  ;  no  one  knows 
whence  they  come  nor  whither  they  go  ;  their  voice  is  heard  aloud  as 
they  come  rushing  on;  the  earth  trembles  and  the  mountains  shake 
before  them.  They  belong  in  Indra's  train ;  are  his  almost  constant 
allies  and  companions.  They  are  called  the  sons  of  Eudra,  who  is 
conceived  of  as  peculiar  god  of  the  tempest.  As  their  father  he  is 
very  often  mentioned  ;  as  a  divinity  with  independent  attributes  he  is 
of  much  rarer  occurrence ;  hymns  addressed  to  him  alone  are  but  few. 

166  <i  ji^nij  go  of  many  other  epithets  found  elsewhere :  thus  S'iva  owes  his  epithet 
Tryamhaka,  and  his  wife  Ambika,  to  Rudra ;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  his  epithet 
Tripura,  and  his  wife  Kali,  Karall,  to  Agni,"  etc. 

'"^  "  Hence  he  is  also  called  Kalagnirudra,  as  in  the  Puranas,  and  in  the  Kalagni- 
rudra  Upanishad." 


ON  THE  CHARACTER  OP  RUBRA.  399 

He  is,  as  might  be  expected,  a  terrible  god :  he  carries  a  great  bow 
from  which  he  hurls  a  sharp  missile  at  the  earth;  he  is  called  the 
'ruler  of  men,'  Icshayadvira ;^^  his  wrath  is  deprecated,  and  he  is  be- 
sought not  to  harm  his  worshipper ;  if  not  in  the  Eik,  at  least  in  the 
Atharvan  and  Brahmanas,  he  is  styled  'lord  of  the  animals,'  as  the  un- 
housed beasts  of  the  field  are  especially  at  the  mercy  of  the  pitiless 
storm.  "A.t  the  same  time,  to  propitiate  him,  he  is  addressed  as  master 
of  a  thousand  remedies,  best  of  physicians,  protector  from  harm  :  this 
may  have  its  ground,  too,  partly  in  the  beneficial  effects  of  the  tempest 
in  freshening  the  atmosphere  of  that  sultry  clime.  Eudra's  chief  in- 
terest consists  in  the  circumstance  that  he  forms  the  point  of  connexion 
between  the  Vedic  religion  and  the  later  Qiva-worship.  Civa  is  a  god 
unknown  to  the  Vedas  :  his  name  is  a  word  of  not  unfrequent  occur- 
rence in  the  hymns,  but  means  simply  'propitious ' ;  not  even  in  the 
Atharvan  is  it  the  epithet  of  a  particular  divinity,  or  distinguished  by 
its  usage  from  any  other  adjective.  As  given  to  him  whose  title  it  has 
since  become,  it  seems  one  of  those  euphemisms  so  freq'\ient  in  the 
Indian  religion,  applied  as  a  soothing  and  flattering  address  to  the  most 
terrible  god  in  the  whole  Pantheon.  The  precise  relation  between 
Civa  and  Eudra  is  not  yet  satisfactorily  traced  out.  The  introduction 
of  an  entirely  new  divinity  from  the  mountains  of  the  north  has  been 
supposed,  who  was  grafted  in  upon  the  ancient  religion  by  being  iden- 
tified with  Eudra;  or  again  a  blending  of  some  of  Agni's  attributes 
with  those  of  Eudra  to  originate  a  new  development.  Perhaps  neither 
of  these  may  be  necessary  ;  Civa  may  be  a  local  form  of  Eudra,  arisen 
under  the  influence  of  peculiar  climatic  relations  in  the  districts  from 
which  he  made  his  way  down  into  Hindostan  proper;  introduced 
among,  and  readily  accepted  by,  a  people  which,  as  the  Atharvan 
shows,  was  strongly  tending  toward  a  terrorism  in  its  religion." 
V  The  characters  ascribed  to  Eudra  in  the  hymns  of  the  E.  V.  are 
most  heterogeneous  and  frequently  'indefinite.  I  shall  endeavour  to 
gather  from  difi'erent  places  and  to  group  together  those  epithets  which 
have  most  afSnity  to  each  other.  This  god  is  described  as  wise,  boun- 
tiful, and  powerful  (i.  43,  1;  i.  114,  4),  as  the  strongest  and  most 
glorious  of  beings  (ii.  33,  3),  as  lord  (tidna)  of  this  world,  possessed  of 

"'  Compare  the  note  on  the  sense  of  this  word,  above,  p.  301  f. 


400       EPITHETS  AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  EUDEA  IN  THE  E.V. 

divine  power  (ii.  33,  9),  as  unsurpassed  in  might""  {ibid.  10),  as  the 
father  of  the  world,"'  mighty,  exalted,  undecaying  (vi.  49, 10);  as  cogni- 
zant of  the  doings  of  men  and  gods  hy  his  power  and  universal  dominion 
(vii.  46,  2);  as  putting  the  waters  in  motion  (x.  92,  5);  as  self-dependent 
(vii.  46,  1),  and  as  deriving  his  renown  from  himself  (i.  129,  3 ; 
X.  92,  9);  as  the  lord  of  heroes  (i.  114,  1,  3,  10;  x.  92,  9);  as  the  lord  of 
songs  and  saerifloes  (i.  43,  4),  the  fulflller  of  sacrifices  (i.  114,  4); 
hrUliant  as  the  sun,  and  as  gold  (i.  43,  5),  tawny-coloured  (this  epithet 
is  frequently  applied),  with  beautiful  chin  (ii.  33,  5),  fair-complexioned 
{Hid.  8),  multiform,  fierce,  arrayed  in  golden  ornaments  {Hid.  9), 
youthful  (v.  60,  5),  terrible  as  a  wild  beast,  destructive  (ii.  23,  11), 
wearing  spirally-braided  hair  (i.  114,  1,  5) ;  and  as  the  celestial  boar 
{Hid.  5).  He  is  frequently  represented  as  the  father  of  the  Maruts  or 
Kudras  (i.  64,  2 ;  i.  85,  1 ;  i.  114,  6,  9;  ii.  33,  1;  ii.  34,  2;  v.  52, 
16;  v.  60,  5;  vi.  50,  4;  vi.  66,  3;  vii.  56,  1;  viii.  20,  17).  He  is 
once  identified  "with  Agni  (ii.  1,  6).  He  is  described  as  seated  on  a 
chariot  (ii.  33,  11),  as  wielding  the  thunderbolt  (ii.  33,  3),  as  armed 
with  a  bow  and  arrowy  {Hid.  10,  14 ;  v.  42,  11 ;  x.  125,  6),  with  a 
strong  bow  and  fleet  arrows,  with  sharp  weapons  (vi.  74,  4;  vii.  46,  1; 
viii.  29,  5).  His  shafts  are  discharged  from  the  sky,  and  traverse  the 
earth  (vii.  46,  3).  He  is  called  the  slayer  of  men  {nri-ghne,  iv.  3,  6)."┬░ 
His  anger,  ill-will,  and  destructive  shafts  are  deprecated  (i.  114,  7,  8; 
ii.  33,  1,  11,  14;  vi.  28,  7;  vii.  46,  3,  4).  But  he  is  also  repre- 
sented as  benevolent  (i.  114,  9),  as  mild,  and  easily  invoked  (ii.  33,  5), 
beneficent  {Hid.  7),  gracious  {siva,  x.  92,  9),  as  the  cause  or  condition 
of  health  and  prosperity  to  man  and  beast  (i.  114,  1).  He  is  fre- 
quently described  as  the  possessor  of  healing  remedies,  and  is  once 
characterized  as  the  greatest  of  physicians  (i.  43,  4;  i.  114,  5;  ii.  33, 
2,  4,  7,   12,   13;  v.  42,  11;  vi.  74,  3;"'  vii.  35,  6;  vii.  46,  3;  viii. 

"8  Compare  the  similar  epithets  applied  to  Vishnu  and  Indra  above :  see  pp.  97 1. 
and  generally  sections  i.  and  ii.,  chapter  ii.  above.  And  yet  in  E.V.  ii.  39,  9,  Eudra 
is  described  in  common  with  Indra,  Varuna,  Mitra,  and  Aryaman,  as  unable  to  resist 
the  will  of  Savitri.     See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  163. 

'*'  Bhuvanasya  pitarmn.  Compare  Raghuvans'a  i.,  1,  where  Paramesvara  (Siva) 
and  Paryati  are  styled  the  "  parents  of  the  world"  {jagdtah  pitarau). 

I'o  In  vii.  56,  17,  it  is  similarly  said  of  the  Maruts,  are  goha  nriha  mdho  vo  astu: 
"  Far  be  your  ki^e-slaying,  man-slaying  bolt." 

'"  In  this  passage  Soma  is  associated  with  Eudra  as  the  dispenser  of  remedies. 


EEMAEKS  ON  THE  CHARACTER  OF  RUBRA.  401 

29,  5).  He  is  supplicated  for  blessings  (i.  114,  1,  2;  ii.  33,  6),  and 
represented  as  averting  the  anger  of  the  gods  (i.  114,  4;  ii.  33,  7). 
In  R.  V.  vi.  74,  1  ff.  he  is  connected  with  Soma  in  the  dual,  and 
entreated  along  with  the  latter  to  bestow  good  and  avert  evil. 

On  a  review  of  these  passages,  and  the  hymns  from  which  they  are 
drawn;  it  appears  that  in  most  places  Rudra  has  no  very  clearly  defined 
function  (such,  for  instance,  as  is  ascribed  to  Indra  and  Agni,  or  even  to 
Vishnu)  as  an  agent  in  producing,  or  a  representative  of,  the  great  pheno- 
mena of  the  physical  world.    It  would  be  difficult  to  make  out  from  the 
larger  portion  of  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  to  what  region  of  the  uni- 
verse the  activity  of  this  god  should  be  referred.    It  is  true  that  he  is  re- 
peatedly declared  to  be  the  father  of  the  Maruts  or  Eudras  (the  winds  or 
storms);  and  from  this  relation  we  might  anticipate  that  he  would  be  de- 
scribed as,  still  more  eminently  than  they,  the  generator  of  tempests,  and 
chaser  of  clouds.     There  are,  however,  few,  if  any,  distinct  traces  of 
any  such  agency  being  ascribed  to  him.     The  numerous  vague  epithets 
which  are  constantly  applied  to  him  would  not  suffice  to  fix  the  par- 
ticular sphere  of  his  operation,  or  even  to  define  his  personality,  as  most 
of  them  are  equally  applied  to  other  deities.     This  is  the  case  with  the 
terms  "fierce,"  "  tawny-coloured,"  "  with  beautiful  chin  "  ;  and  even 
the  word  kapardin  ("  with  spirally-braided  hair  "),  which  at  a  later 
period  became  a  common,  if  not  distinctive,  epithet  of  Mahadeva,  is  in 
the  E.V.  applied  also  to  Pushan  (see  above,  p.  301,  note  7).     While, 
however,  the  cosmical  function  of  Eudra  is  thus  but  obscurely  indi- 
cated, he  is  described  as  possessing  other  marked  and  peculiar  charac- 
teristics.    It  is,  however,  principally  in  his  relation  to  the  good  and 
evil  which  befall  the  persons  and  property  of  men  that  he  is  depicted. 
And  here  there  can  be  little  doubt  that,  though  he  is  frequently  suppli- 
cated to  bestow  prosperity,  and  though  he  is  constantly  addressed  as 
the  possessor  of  healing  remedies,  he  is  principally  regarded  as  a  male- 
volent deity,  whose  destructive  shafts,  the  source  of  disease  and  death 
to  man  and  beast,  the  worshipper  strives  by  his  entreaties  to  avert. 
If  this  view  be  correct,  the  remedies  of  which  Eudra  is  the  dispenser 
may  be  considered  as  signifying  little  more  than  the  cessation  of  his 
destroying  agency  (as  Professor  Weber  remarks,  see  above,  p.  397), 
and  the  consequent  restoration  to  health  and  vigour  of  those  victims 
of  his  ill-will  who  had  been  in  danger  of  perishing.    It  may  appear 
VOL.  IV.  26 


402  EUDEA  ACCOEDING  TO  THE  TAJUEVEDA, 

strange  that  opposite  functions  stould  thus  be  assigned  to  the  same 
god:  but  evLL  and  good,  sickness  and  health,  death  and  life,  are 
naturally  associated  as  contraries,  the  presence  of  the  one  implying  the 
absence  of  the  other,  and  vice  versa ;  and  in  later  times  Mahadeva  is  in 
a  somewhat  similar  manner  regarded  as  the  generator  as  well  as  the 
destroyer.  We  may  add  to  this  that,  whUe  it  is  natural  to  deprecate 
the  wrath  of  a  deity  supposed  to  be  the  destroyer,  the  suppliant  may 
fear  to  provoke  his  displeasure,  and  to  awaken  his  jealousy,  by  caUing 
on  any  other  deity  to  provide  a  remedy.  When  the  destructive  god  has 
been  induced  to  relent,  to  withdraw  his  visitation,  or  remove  its  effects, 
it  is  natural  for  his  worshippers  to  represent  him  as  gracious  and 
benevolent,  as  we  see  done  in  some  of  the  hymns  to  Eudra. 

From  the  above  description,  however,  it  wiH  be  apparent  that  the 
elder  Eudra,  though  different  in  many  respects  from  the  later  Mahadeva, 
is  yet,  like  him,  a  terrible  and  destructive  deity;  while,  on  the  other 
hand,  the  ancient  Vishnu,  like  the  modern  god  of  the  same  name,  is 
represented  to  us  as  a  preserver,  of  a  benignant,  or,  at  least,  of  an  in- 
nocuous, character  (E.V.  i.  22,  18;  i.  156,  4;  i.  186,  10;  viii.  25,  12). 

In  the  Tajur-veda  we  find  the  same  characteristics  assigned  to  Eudra 
as  in  the  Eig-veda.  Thus  both  a  healing  virtue  (iii.  59 ;  xvi.  5,  49) 
and  a  destructive  efficacy  are  ascribed  to  him,  the  latter  being  depicted 
in  the  liveliest  colours,  and  deprecated  in  every  variety  of  expression. 
Thus  he  is  represented  (iii.  61 ;  xvi.  1,  and  elsewhere)  as  carrying  a 
bow  and  arrows,  and  is  earnestly  supplicated  (xvi.  9  ff.,  51  ff.)  to  avert 
his  shafts  from  the  worshipper.  Many  of  the  epithets  which  are 
applied  to  him  in  the  Eig-veda  occur  again  here,  such  as  "brown"  or 
"tawny"  (xvi.  6),  the  god  "with  spirally-braided  hair"  {ibid.  10),  the 
"fierce"  {ibid.  40),  the  "bountiful,"  the  "gracious"  (51),  etc.;  whUe 
a  multitude  of  new  appellations  are  heaped  upon  him  (and  his  attendants), 
such  as  "blue-necked,"  "  thousand-eyed"  {ibid.  7),  "thousand-quivered" 
(13),  "clad  in  a  skin"  (iii.  61  ;  xvi.  51),  "the  dweUer  in  the 
mountains"  (xvi.  2,  3,  4),  and  others  far  too  numerous  to  repeat  (xvi. 
17-46).  The  imagination  of  the  rishi  runs  riot  in  the  invention  of 
these  epithets,  which  are  of  the  most  heterogeneous  description.  Some 
of  the  characteristics  here  attributed  to  Eudra  are  of  a  disgraceful 
nature,  as  where  he  is  styled  the  "lord  of  thieves,  the  robber,  the 
cheater,  the  deceiver,  the  lord  of  pilferers  and  robbers,"  etc.  (w.  20, 


THE  ATHAEVAYEDA,  AND  THE  S'ATAPATHA  BRAHMANA.     403 

21).  Several  new  names  are  ascribed  to  Eudra  in  this  Veda,  as  Blia^a, 
S'arva,  Pa^upati,  etc.,  etc.  (w.  18,  28)."'  Altogether  an  approximation  is 
discernible  in  the  epithets  which  occur  in  the  S'atarudriya  to  the  fierce, 
terrific,  impure,  and  repulsive  character  of  the  later  Mahadeva.  Ambika 
is  mentioned  for  the  first  time  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  (iii.  5),  and 
is  described  not  as  the  wife,  but  as  the  sister  of  Eudra. 

In  the  Atharva-veda  also  reference  is  made  both  to  the  therapeutic 
character  of  Eudra  and  to  the  destructive  arrows  and  lightnings  of 
Bhava  and  S'arva  (ii.  27,  6;  vi.  93,  1;  x.  i.  23;  xi.  2,  1,  12,  etc.). 
Eudra  is  identified  with  Agni  (vii.  87,  1) ;  and  again  with  Savitri 
(xiii.  4,  4).  On  the  other  hand,  Bhava  and  S'arva,  and  again  Bhava 
and  Eudra,  are  spoken  of  in  the  dual  (viii.  2,  7 ;  x.  i.  23 ;  xi.  2,  1 ; 
xi.  2,  14,  16 ;  xi.  6,  9;  xii.  4,  17) ;  and  would  thus  appear  to  have 
been  regarded  by  the  rishi  as  distinct  gods.  S'arva  is  described  as  an 
archer,  Bhava  as  a  king  (vi.  93,  2) ;  and  they,  as  well  as  Eudra,  are 
said  to  have  poisons  and  consumption  at  their  command  (vi.  93,  2 ; 
xi.  2,  26).  In  A.  V.  xi.  2,  2,  30,  the  devouring  birds  and  dogs  of 
Eudra  are  alluded  to  (compare  Vaj.  Sanh.  xvi.  28).  In  another  verse 
Bhava  is  said  to  rule  over  the  sky  and  the  earth,  and  to  fill  the  vast 
atmosphere  (A.  V:  xi.  2,  27)."' 

In  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana  (i.  7,  3,  8)  S'arva,  Bhava,  Pasupati,  and 
Eudra  are  said  to  be  aU.  names  of  Agni;  and  of  these  appellations  S'arva 
is  declared  to  be  in  use  among  the  people  of  the  east,  and  Bhava  among 
the  western  tribe  of  the  Bahikas.  Another  passage  (vi.  1,  3,  7  fi'.)  of  the 
same  Brahmana  describes  the  birth  of  a  boy  {hmndra,  a  word  applied  to 
Agni  in  the  Eig-veda,  v.  2,  1),  to  whom  the  names  of  Eudra,  S'arva, 
Pasupati,  Ugra,  A^ani,  Bhava,  Mahan-deva,  and  Isana  were  successively 

"'^  In  the  same  Teda,  xxxix.  8,  we  have  the  following  gods,  or  appellations  of  one 
god,  specified,  viz.,  Agni,  As'ani,  Pas'upati,  Bhava,  S'arva,  Kana,  Mahadeva,  TJgra- 
deva,  etc.  [Agnim  hridayena  As'anim  hridayagrena  Paiupatim  kritma-hridayena 
Bhmam  yakna  \  S'arvam  matamabhyam  lianam  manyuna  Mahadevam  antahparsav- 
yma  JJgram  devaih  vanislithuna  ityadi). 

"'  The  Niruktai.  15,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  p.  355,  note  98,  contains  the  first 
words  of  a  text  relating  to  Rudra  which  is  given  at  length  by  the  commentator  Diirga, 
and  is  cited  and  translated  ahove.  After  ascribing  a  martial  character  to  Eudra 
in  the  first  line,  this  text  appears  to  assign  to  him,  ia  the  second,  the  threefold 
function  of  universal  creator,  preserver,  and  destroyer.  As  it  is  partially  quoted  in 
the  Nirukta,  this  verse,  though  it  does  not  appear  whence  it  comes,  must,  unless 
interpolated,  be  of  considerable  antiquity. 


404  EXTDEA  EISES  INTO  IMPOETANCE. 

given,  all  of  them,  according  to  the  writer,  representing  different  forma 
of  Agni.  In  the  somewhat  different  version  of  the  same  story  given  in 
the  S'ankhayana  Brahmana  (see  ahove,  pp.  343  ff.)  the  newly-born 
deity  is  not  identified  with  Agni.  But  the  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  in 
another  passage  (ix.  1,  1,  Iff.)  referred  to  by  Professor  Weber  (see 
above,  pp.  347  and  395  f.),  appears  again  clearly  to  make  this  identifica- 
tion. Finally,  traces  of  the  early  connexion  of  Eudra  with  Agni  are 
discoverable,  as  I  have  already  remarked  (p.  349),  in  the  legend  of  the 
birth  of  Karttikeya,  which  I  have  quoted  from  the  Mahabharata. 

Though,  however,  these  deities  may  have  at  one  time  come  to  be 
thus  identified,  the  distinctive  epithets  applied  to  Eudra  in  the  Eig- 
veda  appear  suifioiently  to  prove  that  he  was  generally  discriminated 
from  Agni  by  his  early  worshippers.  The  tendency  visible  both  ia  the 
hymns  of  the  Yeda  and  in  the  Brahmanas  (see  above,  E.V.  ii.  1,  6, 
p.  306-  A.  Y.  vii.  87,  1,  and  xiii.  4,  4,  pp.  333  and  338;  S'atapatha 
Brahmana,  as  quoted  in  p.  341 ;  S'atapatha  Brahmana,  vi.  1,  1,  5,  p.  22) 
to  identify  the  different  deities  with  one  another  may  have  arisen 
from  a  vague  conception  of  the  unity  of  the  divine  principle  by  which 
all  these  several  divinities  were  supposed  to  be  diversely  animated. 

Between  the  texts  which  I  have  cited  from  the  Brahmanas  relative 
to  Eudra,  and  the  earliest  descriptions  of  the  same  deity  which  we  dis- 
cover in  the  Epic  poems,  a  wide  chasm  iatervenes,  which,  as  far  as 
I  am  aware,  no  genuine  ancient  materials  exist  (for  the  TJpanishads  I 
have  quoted  are  of  uncertain  date)  for  bridging  over.  The  Eudra  of 
the  Mahabharata  is  not  indeed  very  different  in  his  general  character 
from  the  god  of  the  same  name  who  is  portrayed  in  the  S'atarudriya ; 
but  in  the  later  literature  his  importance  is  immensely  increased,  his 
attributes  are  more  clearly  defined,  and  the  conceptions  entertained 
of  his  person  are  rendered  more  distinct  by  the  addition  of  various 
additional  features,  and  illustrated  by  numerous  legends.  Instead  of 
remaining  a  subordinate  deity,  as  he  was  in  the  Vedic  era,  Eudra 
has  thrown  Agni,  Vayu,  Surya,  Mitra,  and  Varuna  completely  into  the 
shade ;  and  although  Indra  stiE  occupies  a  prominent  place  in  the  Epic 
legends,  he  has  sunk  down  into  a  subordinate  position,  and  is  quite 
unable  to  compete  in  power  and  dignity  with  Eudra,  who,  together 
with  Vishnu,  now  engrosses  the  almost  exclusive  worship  of  the  Brah- 
manical  world.     Ambika,  who  was  subsequently  identified  with  the 


LINGA  MENTIOKED  IN  THE  MAHABHARATA.  405 

spouse  of  Eudra,  is  ia  the  Tajasaneyi  Sanhita  (above,  p.  321)  spokem 
of  as  his  sister.  TJma  or  ParvatI,  with  -whom  he  was  unconnected  in 
the  Vedic  period,  and  of  whom  the  earliest  mention,  as  far  as  I  know, 
occurs  in  the  Kena  IJpanishad,  and  the  Taittirlya  Aranyaka,"'  is  now 
his  acknowledged  consort.""  In  systematic  mythology  the  function  of 
destroyer  is  assigned  to  him,  as  that  of  creator  is  to  Brahma,  and  that 
of  preserver  to  Vishnu ;  but  he  is  also  worshipped  under  the  emblem 
of  the  "Linga"  as  the  great  generative  power. 

I  have  (above,  pp.  192  f.)  quoted  a  passage  from  the  Mahabharata 
in  which  the  Linga  is  dwelt  upon  at  length,  though  it  is  difficult  to 
say  to  what  age  this  passage  may  be  referable.  Comp.  also  the  epithet 
"mahasepha"  in  p.  191  f.,  which  points- to  the  same  idea. 

In  the  following  passage  of  th┬Ф  same  book,  the  Linga  is  again  men- 
tioned in  verses  which  follow  the  last  of  those  quoted  above  in 
p.  197  ff. : 

Anusasana-parvan,  v.  7510. Рђћ Dahaty  urdlwwfh  sthito  yach  cha  pranan 
nrlnark  sthira^  eha  yat  \  sthira-Ungas  eha  yan  nityam  tasmdt  Sthdnur 

iti  smrital}  \ v.  7516.  Nityanoha  hrahmaohwryem  line/am  mya 

yada  sthitam  \  mahayanty  asya  lokai  eha  priyam  hy  etad  mahatmanah  \ 
vigraham  pujayed  yo  vai  lirtyam  va  pi  mahatmanah  \  Unga-pujayita  nit- 
yam mahatim  Priyam  ainute  |  rishayas  chdpi  devdS  eha  gandharvdpsarasas 
iathd  I  lingam  evdrchayanti  sma  yat  tad  urdhvam  samdsthitam  |  ityadi  \ 
"And  since,  standing  aloft,  he  consumes  the  lives  of  men,  and  since  he 
is  fixed,  and  since  his  Linga  is  perpetually  fixed,  he  is  therefore  caEed 

Sthanu 7516.  And  when  his  Linga  remains  constantly  in  a 

state  of  chastity,  and  people  reverence  it,  this  is  agreeable  to  the 
great  [god}.  The  worshipper  of  the  Linga,  who  shall  adore  the 
image  {vigraha),  or  the  Linga,  of  the  great  [god],  enjoys  continually 
great  prosperity..    It  is  the  Linga,  raised  up,  which  the  rishis,  gods, 

Рќа"*  These  passages  Рќаwill  te  quoted  in  the  next  section. 

^'^  It  appears  (see  "Westergaard's  Dissertation  on  the  Oldest  Period  of  Indian 
History,  p*  82,  note)  that  Panini  {i,  1,  49)  gives  a  rule  whereby,  in  addition  to  the 
names  of  the  goddesses  Indrani  and  Varunani,  which  are  found  in  the  Rig-veda, 
the  names  of  four  others  who  are  not  found  there,  and  who  are  aU  wives  of  S'iva 
(under  his  different  appellations  of  Bhava,  S'arva,  Eudra,  and  Mrida)Рђћ viz.  BhavSnl 
S'arvani,  Eudraiii,  and  Mridani Рђћ may  be  formed.  (The  rule  is  this :  Indra-  Varuna- 
Bhma-S'(irva-Rudra-Mrida-hiwMranya-yava-yavana-mdtulacKd,ryanain  anuk).  It 
does  not,  however,  follow  that  these  last-naroed  goddesses  had  risen  into  any  import- 
ance in  the  time  of  Panini.    Indrani  and  VaruBani  were  never  of  any  significance. 


406  HOW  DID  THE  LINGA-WORSHIP  ARISE? 

Gandharras,  and  Apsarases  worship."  Compare  mth  this  extract 
verses  9616  f.,  9625  and  9631  of  the  Drona-parvan. 

The  Linga  is  also  mentioned  in  the  list  of  S'iva's  names  in  another 
part  of  the  same  Anu^asana-parvan,  v.  1 1 60  : 

Urdhva-retah  urdhva-lingah  urdHma-iayi  nabhah-sthitah  \  v.  1191. 
Lingaihyakshah  swradhydkshah  ....  vijadhyahsho  vija-karta  .... 
"  lie  whose  seed  is  raised  up,  whose  Linga  is  raised  up,  who  sleeps 
aloft,  who  ahides  in  the  sky."  ....  v.  1191.  "The  lord  of  the 
Linga,  the  lord  of  the  suras  (gods)  ....  the  lord  of  seed,  the 
former  of  seed."  "* 

We  possess  no  records  to  show  how  this  phallic  emblem  became  con- 
nected with  Eudra.  But,  as  Dr.  Stevenson  (Journal  E.  A.  S.,  viii. 
330  "')  and  Professor  Lassen  (Ind.  Ant.,  i.  2nd  ed.  924)  imagine,  it 

1Рёб  In  the  Sauptika-parvan  it  is  related  that  Mahadeva  had  been  appointed  by 
Brahma  to  create  living  beings.  He  proceeded  to  perform  austerities,  and  continued 
doing  so  so  long  that  Brahma  produced  another  creator,  who  performed  his  task, 
Mahadeva  at  last  came,  and  seeing  that  the  creation  had  already  been  effected,  he 
became  angry  and  split  his  Linga,  which  was  then  placed  in  the  earth  (v.  780  f. : 
ehulcrodha  bhagavan  Suiro  lingaih  svaih  chapycmidhyata  \  tat  praviddham  tathS 
hhumau  tathaiva  pratyatishthata),  I  have  not  observed  any  mention  of  the  Linga 
in  the  earlier  part  of  the  Eamayana,  but  in  the  TJttara  Kanda,  sect.  31,  v.  42  f.,  the 
following  lines  occur :  Tatra  yatra  cha  yati  sma  JRavano  rakshasesvarah  \  jamiuna- 
damayam  lingcm  tatra  tatra  sma  ntyate  |  43.  Baluka-vedi-madhye  tu  tal  lingam 
ithapya  JRavanah  \  archayamasa  gandhais  cha  pushpais  chamriia-gcmdhibhih  \ 
"  Wherever  Eavana,  lord  of  the  Eakshasas,  went,  a  golden  linga  was  carried  thither. 
Placing  that  linga  in  the  midst  ┬Фf  a  pedestal  of  sand,  Eavana  worshipped  it  with 
incense,  and  flowers  of  ambrosial  odour."  The  commentator  remarks  on  v.  43; 
Tal  lingam  jambunadamayam  nitya-puja-Ungam  \  Aiharya-hamanaya  hi  tal-linga- 
puja  Jiavanaaya  ]  A.i&varya-kamasya  sauvarna-linga'pujayas  tantreshukteh  \  *'That 
golden  linga  was  intended  for  constant  worship.  He  worshipped  it  from  the  desire 
of  sovereignty.  For  it  is  prescribed  in  the  Tantras  that  a  golden  linga  should  be 
worshipped  when  any  one  desires  sovereignty," 

'"  In  this  paper  on  "  the  Ante-Brahmanical  Eeligion  of  the  Hindus,"  the  Eev, 
Dr.  Stevenson  asserts  that  the  "worship  of  S'iva,  especially  under  the  form  of  the 
Linga,"  is  one  of  the  practices  for  which  he  considers  modern  Hinduism  is  indebted 
to  the  ante-Brahmaaical  religion  of  India,  i.e.  to  local  superstitions  prevalent  among 
the  aboriginal  tribes  anterior  to  the  development  of  the  existing  Brahmanical  system. 
This  opinion  in  regard  to  S'iva  is  grounded  by  Dr,  Stevenson  on  the  facts :  (1)  that 
S'iva  is  not  named  in  the  ancient  Vedic  hymns ;  (2)  that  Eudra  does  not  occupy  in 
those  hymns  the  high  position  which  the  later  S'iva  holds;  (3)  that  various  particulars 
in  the  legend  of  Daksha  (see  above,  pp.  372  ff.),  such  as  the  general  indisposition  to 
acknowledge  S'iva's  right  to  share  in  the  sacrifice,  and  the  circumstance  that  his  rites 
required  no  Brahmanical  priest  (see  above,  p.  377,  note  132),  point  to  a  recent  in- 
troduction of  S'iva's  worship  (comp.  Mahabhiirata,  Vana-parvan,  vv.  11001  ff.,  cited 


TEXT  CONTAINING  THE  "WORD  S'lS'NADEYA.  407 

19  not  impossible  that  it  may  have  been  at  first  an  object  of  veneration 
among  the  aboriginal  or  non-Arian  Indians;  and  that  it  was  subse- 
quently adopted  by  the  Brahmans  from  them,  and  associated  with  the 
worship  of  ┬Б,udra. 

This  conjecture  would  acquire  additional  probability  if  we  were 
justified  in  supposing  that  the  word  "si^nadeva,"  which  occurs  in 
two  passages  of  the  Eig-veda,  had  any  reference  to  a  worship  of  this 
sort  existing  among  the  barbarous  tribes  towards  whom  the  authors 
of  the  hymns  so  often  express  hostility,  as  the  followers  of  a  different 
religion  from  their  own.  The  texts  in  which  the  word  in  question  is 
found  have  been  already  adduced  and  translated  in  the  second  volume 
of  this  work  (p.  391,  note  76).  But  I  shall  quote  them  again  here 
with  their  obscure  and  difficult  contexts,  and  endeavour  to  elucidate 
them  further.     The  first  passage  is  as  follows : 

E.V.  vii.  21,  3  ff. Рђћ Tvam  In&ra  aravitwoai  apas  hah  parishthitah  Ahina 
iura  purvih  \  tvad  vdvakre  rathyo  na  dhenah  rejante  vtiva  hritrimani 
bhlshd  I  4.  BMmo  vivesha  ayudhehhir  eshdm  apdihsi  vtivd  naryani  vidvan  \ 
Indrah  puro  jarhrishdno  vi  dudhod  vi  vajra-hasto  mahina  jaghdna  \  5. 
Na  ydtavah  Indra  jujuvur  no  na  vandand  iavishtha  vedydlMh^''^  \  sa 
iardhad  aryo  vishumsya  jantor  md  iiina-devdh  api  gur  ritam  nah  \  6. 
Aihi  kratm  Indra  hhur  adha  jman  na  te  vivyan  mahimdnafh  rajdmsi  \ 
soena  hi  Vritram  iavasd  jaghantha  na  iatrur  antaM  iiividad  yudhd  te  \ 
7.  Devdi  chit  te  asurydya  purve  ami  hshatrdya  mamire  sahdmsi  |  Indro 
maghdni  dayate  vishahya  Indram  vdj'asya  johavantu  sdtau  \  8.  Kirii 
chid  hi  tvdm  avase  juhdva  Isdnam  Indra  saubhagasya  hhureh  |  avo 
labhutha  satam-ute  aame  alhikshattus  tvdvato  varutd  | 

"3.  Thou,  heroic  Indra,  hast  caused  to  flow  the  abundant  waters 
which  had  been  obstructed  by  Ahi.     Through  thee  the  cows  (rivers, 

in  p.  284  of  this  volTime) ;  (4)  that  there  is  no  connexion  between  the  Linga  and  any 
of  the  ancient  Brahmanical  emblems;  (5)  that  the  principal  seats  of  the  Linga 
worship  are  to  be  found  in  the  south  and  north-east  of  India,  at  a  distance  from 
the  original  Brahmanical  settlements;  (6)  that  in  the  Mahratta  country  no  Brahman 
officiates  as  priest  in  a  Linga  temple,  while,  on  the  contrary,  in  the  temples  of  Vishnu 
Brahmans  alone  officiate.  [This  distinction  does  not,  I  think,  exist  in  Northern  India. 
In  the  temple  of  Vi^ve^vara,  at  Benares,  the  officiating  priests,  if  I  am  not  mistaken, 
are  Brahmans.  The  same  is  the  impression  of  Prof.  Fitz-Edward  Hall,  with  whom 
I  have  communicated  on  the  subject. Рђћ J.  M.] 
"8  For  the  sense  assigned  to  this  word-  in  Bdhtlingk  and  Roth's  Lexicon,  see  s.v. 


408  SENSE  OF  THE  "WOED  S'IS'NADEVA 

according  to  Sayana)  have  rolled  on  like  -warriors  in  chariots.  AU 
created  things  tremble  for  fear.  4.  The  terrible  [god],  skilled  in  all 
heroic  deeds,  has  with  his  weapons  mastered  these  [cloud-demons]. 
Indra,  exulting,  has  shattered  their  cities;  armed  with  the  thunder- 
bolt he  has  smitten  them  asunder  by  his  might.  5.  Neither  demons 
impel  us,  Indra,  nor,  0  puissant  [deity],  of  a  truth  any  evil  spirits. 
The  glorious  [Indra]  defies  the  hostile  beings :  let  not  those  whose  god 
is  the  '  ^isna '  approach  our  sacred  ceremony.  6.  Thou,  0  Indra,  hast 
surpassed  in  power,  when  thou  runnest  thy  course.  The  worlds  have 
not  comprehended  within  them  thy  greatness.  By  thine  own  might 
thou  hast  slain  Vritra.  No  enemy  hath  attained  the  end  of  thee  in 
battle.  7.  The  earlier  gods  have  yielded  to  thy  divine  power;  their 
powers  have  bowed  before  thy  sovereign  might."'  Indra  having 
conquered,  dispenses  wealth.  Let  men  invoke  Indra  in  the  combat. 
8.  Indra,  the  bard  hath  invoked  for  protection  thee,  the  lord  of  great 
prosperity.  0  thou  who  bringest  a  hundred  succours,  thou  hast  been 
a  defence  to  us,  a  defender  against  the  assailant  of  him  who  is  devoted 
to  thee." 

E. V.  X.  99,  1  ff. Рђћ Kam  nak  cMtram  ishanyasi  chikitvan  prithuigmanam 
vairam  vavridhadhyai  \  hat  tasya  datu  davaso  vyushtau  takshad  vajram 
Vritra-turam  apinvaf  |  2.  Sa  hi  dyuta  vidyuta  veti  sdma  pritMrh  yomm 
asuratvd  "sasdda  \  sa  sanllehhih  praaahdno  asya  hhrdtur  na  rite  sapta- 
thasya  mayah  \  3.  Sa  vdjam  yata  apadushpadd  yan  svarshdtd  parishadat 
sanishyan  \  anarvd  yai  Safa-durasya^^"  vedoghnan  iisnadevdn  ahhi  varpasd 
'bhui  I  4.  Sa  yahvyo  manir  goshu  ana  a  juhoti  pradhanydsu  sasrih  \ 
apddo  yatra  yujydso  'rathdh  drony-aivdsah  irate  ghritaih  vdh  \  5.  Sa 
Rudrebldr  a^asta-vdrah  rihhvd  hitvi  gay  am  dre-avadyah  d  agdt  |  vamrasya 
manye  mithund  vivavrl  annam  abhltya  arodayat  mushdyan  |  6.  So  id 
ddsam  tuvi-ravam  patir  dan  shad-ahhafh  tri-ilrshdnam  damanyat  \  asya 
Trito  nu  ojasd  vridhdno  vipd  vardham  ayo^agraya  han  \  T.  Sa  druhvane 
manushe  urdhvasdnah  d  sdvishad  ariasdndya  iarum  \  sa  nritamo  nahmho 
'smat  siy'dtali  puro  'bhinad  arhan  dasyu-hatye  \  "What  wonderful,  wide- 
travelling  bull  dost  thou,  perceiving,  send  to  us  for  our  delight !  "What 
an  act  of  power  does  he  display  at  the  dawn!     He  has  formed  the 

179  <qjire  Kraft  kommt  deiner  Herrscherkraft  niolit  gleicli,"Рђћ Bohtlingk  and  Roth 
s.v.  ma-\-anu. 
1^┬░  This  word  in  the  locative  plural  also  occurs  in  E.V.  i.  51,  3, 


OCOUERING  IN  THE  EIGVEDA.  409 

Tritra-slaying  thunderbolt,  and  has  strengthened  thee.  2.  With 
gleaming  light  he  comes  to  the  goal;  in  his  divine  glory  he  hath 
seated  himself  on  our  broad  place  of  sacrifice;  with  his  allies  he 
oveFcomes  the  delusions  of  him  -who  pretends  to  be  his  seventh  brother. 
3.  Proceeding  to  the  conflict,  and  desiring  to  acquire  them,  he  has 
gone  to,  and  in  hostile  array  besieged,  inaccessible  places,  at  the  time 
when,  irresistible,  slaying  those  whose  god  is  the  '  Msna,'  he  by  his 
craft  conquered  the  riches  of  the  city  with  a  hundred  gates.  4.  The 
steed,  coming  among  the  cows  conquered  in  battle,  pours  out  the 
flowing  rivers  [in  the  place]  where  the  allies,  without  feet  or  chariots, 
employing  the  clouds  as  their  horses,  send  forth  fertilizing  water.  5. 
The  great  [Indra],  who  has  indescribable  treasures,  and  from  whom 
evil  is  far  removed,  forsaking  his  house,  has  arrived  with  the  Kudras. 
Coming  and  plundering  their  food,  he  has,  I  believe,  made  the  two 
unsheltered  (children)  of  Vamra  to  weep.  6.  This  lord  subjugated  the 
loud-voiced  Dasa  with  six  eyes  and  three  heads.  Trita,  increasing 
through  his  strength,  struck  the  boar  with  his  iron-tipped  shaft.  7. 
Rising  up,  he  has  launched  his  arrow  against  the  malignant  and  de- 
structive man.  He,  the  noble  and  potent  hero,  has  shattered  for  us 
the  cities  of  the  enemy  (or  of  Nahush)  in  the  conflict  with  the  de- 
stroyers (Dasjrus)." '*' 

The  following  is  Sayana's  explanation  of  the  word  "  ^i^nadeva"  in 
the  first  of  the  preceding  passages,  E.V.  vii.  21,  5,  and  repeated  briefly 
in  his  note  on  the  second  passage :  S'Una-ievah  \  hinena  dwyanti  hri- 
Рђбdanti  iti  iisna-devaJi  \  abrahmachwryah  ity  arthah  \  tatha  cha  Yaslcah  \ 
....  " Usna-devah  abrahmaehmryah"  |  .  .  .  .  "  ' S'i^nadevah '  are  those 
who  sport  with  the  ^isna  (membrum  virile),  i.e.  unchaste  men;  as 
Yaska  says,  '  Sisnadevah '  means  the  unchaste."  Durga,  the  com- 
mentator on  the  Nirukta,  as  cited  by  Eoth  (Illust.  of  Nir.  p.  47), 
gives  the  same  explanation  as  Sayana.  He  says  that  those  men  are 
called  "si^nadeva"  who  "are  always  dallying  carnally  with  prostitutes, 
forsaking  Yedic  observances  "  {iiinena  nityam  eva  praMrnahhih  strliMh 
salcam  kndantah  asate  irmiani  karmany  utsrifya).  Eoth,  in  the  place 
I  have  cited,  thinks  the  word  is  a  sarcastic  appellation  for  priapic  or 
lustful  demons,  and  translates  it  by  "  Schwanz-gotter." 

181  Prof.  Aufreoht  has  given  me  much  assistance  in  translating  these  two  passages. 
Kote  in  first  edition.    I  have  made  a  good  many  alterations  in  the  second  edition. 


410  SENSE  OF  THE  WORD  S'IS'NADEVA. 

It  does  not  appear  to  me  that  Say  ana's  interpretation  has  much  to 
recommend  it.  There  are  some  other  words  in  the  Veda  in  which  the 
word  "deva"  forms  the  last  member  of  the  compound,  as  "anrita- 
deva"  (vii.  104,  14)  and  "mura-deva"  (vii.  104,  24). "^  Sayana 
explains  "mura-devah"  as="marana-krldah,"  "those  who  make  a 
sport  of  kiUing";  and  he  therefore  takes  "deva"  there  in  the  same 
sense  as  he  does  in  "  ^i^aa-deva."  But  in  the  other  word,  "  anrita- 
deva,"  he  takes  "deva"  in  the  usual  sense  of  "god,"  and  interprets 
it  as  "he  whose  gods  are  false"  (anritah  asatya-lhutdh  devah  yaaya 
tadriiaK).  In  the  same,  way  he  understands  "anti-devam"  in  K.V.  i. 
180,  7,  as  meaning  "near  the  gods."  And  though  in  Bohtlingk  and 
Eoth's  Dictionary  the  word  "  anrita-deva  "  is  explained  as  signifying 
a  "false  player,"  this  interpretation  is  afterwards  withdrawn  (in  favour 
of  that  which  Sayana  gives  of  this  word)  at  the  close  of  the  article  on 
the  word  "deva."  Nor  does  the  sense  assigned  by  Sayana  to  "  si^na- 
deva"  appear  to  be  in  itself  a  very  probable  one.  For  the  epithet 
"lascivious"  would  not  necessarily  be  a  term  of  reproach  in  the  mouth 
of  an  Indian  poet  of  the  Vedic  age,  when,  though  the  institution  of 
marriage  was  recognized  and  honoured,  no  great  amount  of  reprobation 
could  have  been  attached  to  unohastity  in  the  case  of  men  (compare 
E.V.  i.  167,  4;  ix.  112,  4;  x.  85,  37,  and  x.  86,  16,  17,  and  the  fifth 
volume  of  this  work,  pp.  307  f.,  460  ┬Б).  On  the  other  hand,  if  the 
word  "sisna-deva"  is  to  be  understood  of  human  beings,  and  if  it  could 
be  taken  as  describing  any  deviation  from  the  contemporaneous  Arian 
worship,  it  would  find  many  parallels  in  the  Rig-veda,  as  may  be  seen 
by  a  comparison  of  the  words  "akarman,"  "adevayu,"  "anrich," 
"anindra,"  "  anya-vrata,  "  "  apavrata,  "  "avrata, "  "abrahman," 
"ayajvan"  "ayajyu"  |  "without  ceremonies,  no  worshippers  of  the 
gods,  without  hymns,  without  Indra,  following  other  rites,  averse  to 
rites,  without  ritesj  without  priests,  or  prayers,  offering  no  sacrifices,"  in 
the  passages  quoted  in  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  359  ┬Б,  371  ff. 

It  is,  however,  objected  that  "  sisna  "  cannot  be  taken  as  equivalent 
to  "Linga,"  which  means  a  sign,  the  phallus,  and  is  therefore  em- 
blematic, while  the  "^i^na"  denotes  not  an  icaage,  but  the  male  organ 
itself.     "Siina"  has  also  the  sense  of  "tail,"  as  in  E.V.  i.  105,  8, 

'*2  The  word  is  explained  by  BoMliiigk  and  Roth  s.v.  as=muladeva,  and  as  de- 
noting a  species  of  goblins. 


QUOTATION  FEOM  GOREESIO'S  RAMAYANA.  411 

pointed  out  to  me  by  Professor  Aufrecht,  where  the  words  musho  na 
kiim  vyadanti  ma  adhyah  mean,  "  cares  worry  me,  like  mice  gnawing 
their  tails."  The  word  "  ^isnadevah,"  if  understood  of  demons,  may 
therefore  mean,  as  Eoth  suggests,  "  tailed  (or  priapic)  demons,"  and 
not  "  worshippers  of  the  si^na."  The  same  difficulty  which  we  en- 
counter in  fixing  the  meaning  of  the  word  "dasyu,"  viz.  whether  it 
is  to  be  understood  of  men  or  demons  (see  the  second  volume  of  this 
work,  pp.  362  ff. ;  388  ff.),  recurs  here.  In  the  first  of  the  passages 
quoted  above  (vii.  21,  5)  it  appears,  so  long  as  we  are  ignorant  of  the 
real  sense  of  "  ^isna-deva,"  that  it  might  be  understood  either  of 
men  or  demons,  either  of  whom  would  have  been  unwelcome  visitors 
at  an  Arian  ceremonial.  Perhaps,  as  the  word  "yatavah"  (demons) 
precedes,  it  is  most  likely  that  the  latter  are  intended  :  and  the  same 
remark  may  be  held  to  apply  to  the  second  passage  (x.  99,  3). 

However  interesting,  therefore,  it  would  be  to  find  a  proof  of  the 
existence  of  a  phallic  worship  among  the  aboriginal  tribes  contemporary 
with  the  Vedic  rishis,  it  must  be  confessed  that  the  word  "si^nadeva" 
does  not  supply  this  evidence. 

Iq  a  passage  (in  the  Preface  to  the  tenth  vol.  of  his  Eamayana,  p.  ix.) 
which  I  have  adduced  in  the  second  vol.  of  this  work  (pp.  419  f.), 
Signer  Grorresio  expresses  the  opinion  that  the  Southern  race,  whom 
he  supposes  to  be  symbolized  under  the  appellation  of  Eakshasas,  were 
specially  addicted  to  the  worship  of  "Eudra,  or  a  terrible"  and,  as  he 
believes,  "a  Hamitic  deity."  In  note  35  (p.  291  of  the  same  volume), 
on  the  destruction  of  Daksha's  sacrifice,  he  says :  "  It  appears  to  me 
that  in  this  fact  the  struggle  of  the  ancient  religions  of  India  is  re- 
presented under  a  mythical  veil.  S'iva  (a  deity,  as  I  believe,  of  the 
Cushite  or  Hamitic  tribes  which  preceded  on  the  soil  of  India  the 
Arian  or  Indo-Sanskrit  races)  wished  to  have  a  part  in  the  worship  of 
the  conquerors,  aiid  in  their  sacrifices,  from  which  he  was  excluded ; 
and  by  disturbing  their  rites,  and  by  a  display  of  violence  at  their 
sacrifices,  he  succeeded  in  being  admitted  to  participate  in  them." 
Signer  Gorresio,  however,  ofiers  very  little  proof  of  his  assertion  in 
regard  to  the  worship  of  S'iva  being  specially  prevalent  among  the 
savage  tribes  of  the  south.  In  note  116,  p.  370,  of  his  ninth  vol., 
indeed,  he  remarks  as  follows  on  a  passage  (Eamayana  vi.  19,  50  f.) 
where  it  is  said  that  Indrajit,  son  of  Eavana,  had  a  golden  serpent  for 


412         "WOESHIP  OP  SIVA  BOTH  IN  NORTH  AND  SOUTH. 

his  banner:  "The  serpent  was  the  special  symbol  in  the  worship  of 
the  Hamite  races,  and  here  therefore  Indrajit,  the  black  Eakshasa, 
the  Hamite,  sets  it  up  as  his  banner.  Thus  in  the  seventy-eighth 
chapter  of  the  Sundara  Eanda  it  is  said  that  Indrajit  was  in  the 
habit  of  sacrificing  especially  to  S'iva,  the  Hamitic  deity,  who  pos- 
sesses aU.  the  attributes  of  the  Hamitic  religion,  and  who  entered 
into  the  Indo- Sanskrit  Olympus  by  one  of  those  religious  syncretisms 
of  which  traces  are  so  frequently  to  be  found  in  the  ancient  systems  of 
worship." 

The  passage  of  the  Sundara  Kanda  to  which  Gorresio  refers  occurs, 
in  the  Bombay  edition,  in  the  seventh  section  of  the  Tuddha  E!anda, 
vv.  18  f.  (=Sundara  Kanda  78,  17,  in  Gorresio's  ed.),  and  is  as  follows ; 

Tishtha  va  Mm  mahdraja  iramena  tma  vdna/rdn  \  ayam  eho  maharaja 
Indrcyit  kshapayishyati  \  anena  cha  mahdraja  Maheharam  anuttamam  I 
ishtvd  yajnaih  vara  labdho  lohe  parama-durlabhah  \  "  Stay,  great  king, 
what  need  is  there  of  thy  exertions  ?  This  Indrajit  alone  wiU  destroy 
the  monkeys.  Por  by  him  a  boon,  hard  to  be  gotten,  was  obtained 
after  he  had  offered  an  unequalled  sacrifice  to  Mahadeva." 

This  passage  is  not  sufficient  to  prove  that  Mahadeva  was  in  a  special 
degree  the  god  of  the  savages  of  the  South.  We  have  already  seen 
(pp.  184  ff.,  283  ff.),  by  the  cases  of  Aijuna,  Jayadratha,  Parasurama, 
and  above  all,  of  Jarasandha,  as  recorded  in  the  Mahabharata,  that  the 
worship  of  Mahadeva  (frequently  for  the  purpose  of  obtaining  some 
boon)  was  practised  by  the  warriors  of  Northern  India,  just  as  it  is 
here  said  to  have  been  by  Indrajit.  Further,  it  is  not  S'iva  alone 
whom  the  Rakshasas  worshipped  for  their  own  purposes.  It  appears 
from  the  passage  of  the  Ramayana  (cited  above  in  p.  167)  that  Ravana 
had  obtained  the  gift  of  invincibility  from  Brahma.  At  the  same 
time  it  will  be  seen  from  a  passage  cited  below  from  the  Uttara  Kanda 
25,  9,  that  it  was  the  sacrifice  to  Mahadeva,  and  not  the  one  to  Vishnu 
which  procured  for  Indrajit  his  magical  powers. 

The  same  worship  of  Brahma  is  related  in  regard  to  Atikaya,  one 
of  Eavana's  sons,  in  Eamayana  vi.  71,  31  f.  (Bombay  ed) : 

Etendrddhito  Brahma  iapasd  hhdvitdtmand  \  astrdni  chdpy  maptdni 
ripmas  cha  pardjitdh  \  surdsurair  ahadhyatvam  dattam  amnai  Svayam- 
hhuvd  I  "By  this  contemplative  (Rakshasa)  Brahma  had  been  wor- 
shipped with  austerities,  and  he  had  obtained  weapons,  and  conquered 


EAVANA  AN  OBSERVER  OF  THE  VEDIC  RITUAL.  413 

his  enemies.    [The  privilege]  had  been  bestowed  on  him  by  Svayambhu 
that  he  should  be  indestructible  by  gods  or  Asuras." 

In  verse  28  he  is  described  as  "reverent  to  the  aged,  and  of  re- 
nowned strength"  {vriddha-sevl  ^ruta-balah^^).  Eavana  himself  is 
represented  in  the  Eamayana  as  an  observer  of  the  Vedio  ritual.  Thus 
in  Book  vi.  93,  58  ff.  (Bombay  ed.=vi.  72,  62  ff.  of  Gorr.),  his  minister, 
Supar^va  (Avindhya''*  in  Gorr.),  who  is  described  as  "virtuous  and 
pure,"  is  introduced  as  saying  to  him :  Veda-vidya-vratah  sndias  sva- 
Icarma-niratas  "*  tatha  \  striydh  Tcasmad  hadham  vira  manyase  Rahaha- 
sesvara  \  "  Why  dost  thou,  heroic  Eavana,  lord  of  the  Eakshasas,  who 
knowest  the  Veda,  hast  practised  the  prescribed  discipline,  and  art  an 
initiated  householder,  and  devoted  to  thy  duty,  meditate  the  slaughter 
of  a  woman?"  And  Vibhishana,  in  his  eulogy  on  bis  brother  after  his 
death,  says  (vi.  Ill,  23,  Bombay  ed.=vi.  93,  30  of  Gorr.):  Esho 
hitdgniP'^  cha  mahatapds  cha  veddntagah  karmasu  chdgrya-^urah  \ 
"He  had  placed  the  sacrificial  fire,  was  very  austere,  bad  read  the 
concluding  treatises  of  the  Veda,  and  was  an  eminent  hero  in  rites."  ^" 

183  Instead  of  iruta-balah,  Gorresio's  edition  reads  s'rutidharah,  "  an  observer  of 
the  Vedas."  In  Mann  vii.  38  the  following  Terse  occurs :  Vriddhamsoha  nitymh 
senta  vipran  veda-vidah  suchm  \  vriddha-sevl  hi  satatam  rakshobhir  api  pujyate  \ 
"let  [the  king]  constantly  reverence  old  and  pure  Brahmans,  skilled  in  the  Yedas; 
for  he  who  continually  reverences  the  aged  is  honoured  even  by  the  Eakshasas." 
Can  this  verse  refer  to  the  character  vriddha-sevi  given  to  Atikaya  in  the  passage 
(Earn.  vi.  71,  28)  quoted  above?  If  so,  the  passage  in  Manu  must  be  posterior 
in  date  to  the  Ramayana.  Or  has  this  character  been  given  to  Atikaya  in  con- 
sequence of  the  verse  of  Manup  or  have  the  two  passages  no  connexion?  The 
coincidence  is  at  least  curious. 

1'*  He  is,  as  remarked  by  the  commentator,  also  called  Avindhya ;  and  so  in  the 
(Ramopakhyana  in  the  Yana-parvan  of  the)  Mahabharata  (vv.  16148,  16492-6,  and 


i'5  The  commentator  thus  explains  these  words :  Veda-vidya-graKapehsUta-hrahma- 
eharya-vrata-purva-vidyam  grihltva  \  snatah  \  guru-kulat  samavrittaa  tadanantaram 
dara-grahana-purvam  nityagnihotradi-sva-karma-niratah  \  "  One  who  has  obtained 
a  knowledge  of  the  Veda  after  practising  the  discipline  of  continence  required  for  the 
reception  of  such  knowledge ;  and  who,  after  returning  from  his  preceptor's  family, 
has  married  a  wife,  and  continues  devoted  to  the  practice  of  the  agnihotra  and  other 
indispensable  rites."  See  Wilson's  and  'Williams's  Dictionaries,  s.m.  snata  and 
mataia,  and  KuUuka's  note  on  Manu  iii.  2,  referred  to  by  the  latter  lexicographer. 

18┬Ф  Ssho  hitagnir  ity  arshah  semdhih  |  ahitagnir  iti  chhedah  \  Comm. 

18'  Vedantagah  \  adh'itopanishatkah  |  karmasu  agnihotradishu  \  agryaiurah  \ 
paramanushthata  parama-karmathah  \  In  some  of  the  earlier  lines  of  the  same 
section  Vibhishana  thus  speaks  of  Ravana:  Gatah  setuh  simltSnam  gato  dharmaaya 
vigrahah  \  gatah  satvasya  sankshepali  suhastamm  gatir  gata  \  adityali  patito  bhumau 


414  ElVANA  INTEREED  WITH 

Again,  it  is  related  in  the  hundred  and  thirteenth  Bection  (Bombay 
ed.),  that  Eavana  was  buried  with  the  usual  Brahmanical  ceremonies, 
though  the  commentator  (in  his  note  on  verse  107)  says  that  the 
Brahmans  who  were  concerned  in  them  were  Kakshasa-brahmans 
(Rdkshasa-dvydh) . 

Eamayana  vi.  113,  w,  112  ff.  (Bombay  ed.) Рђћ Chita&  chandana' 
MithaU  oha  paimaho^lra-ohandanaih  \  Irahmya '"'  samva/rtaydmasujf 
rdnhamsta/ranavritam  \  praohalcruh  Rakshmend^asya  piirimedham 
anuttamam  \  veiimoha  dakshinaprachim  yatha-sthananeha  pavakam  \ 
prishadajyena  sampurnam  sruvam  sTcandhe  prachikshipuh  \  padayoh  saka- 
tam  prapur  urvok  cholukhalam  tads.  \  ddru-patrani  mrvdni  aranim 
chottardranim  \  dattvd  tu  musalam  ohdnyam  yathd-dhdnam  vichakramuh  \ 
sdstra-drishtena  vidhina  maharshi-vihitena^^^  cha  \  tatra  medhyam pasum 
hatvd  Mdhhasendrasya  JRdhhasd^  \  paristwranikdm^^"  rdjno  gkritaktd^ 
mmmekayan  I  gandhair  mdlyair  alankritya  Rdvanam  dlna-mdnasdh  | 
Vibhuhana-sahdyds  te  vastrais  cha  vividhair  api  \  Idjair  avakiranti  sma 
vdshpa-purm-muhhds  tathd  \  sa  dadau  pdvakam  tasya  vidhi-yuUam 
Vilhuhhanah  \  sndtvd  ehaivdrdra-vastrena  tildn  da/rlha-vimUritdn  \ 
udakena  cha  sammiirdn  praddya  mdhi-purvakam^'^  \    "They  formed, 

magnas  tamasi  chandramah  \  "  The  bulwaTt  of  the  righteous  is  gone ;  gone  is  the 
image  of  virtue ;  gone  is  the  summary  of  goodness  [or  strength,  Comm.] ;  the  lot  of 
heroes  has  heen  gained  by  him.  The  sun  has  fallen  to  the  ground ;  the  moon  has 
been  quenched  in  darkness,"  etc.  And  yet  Vibhishana  abuses  his  dead  brother  in  the 
hundred  and  thirteenth  section  (Bombay  ed.),  vv.  93  ff. 

188  Yeda^margamigata-kriyaya  \  Comm. 

189  Xalpa-sutra-lcrid-rishi-vihitena  \  Comm. 

190  Paristiryate  mukham  anaya  iti paristaranika  vapa  |  tarn  raUshasendrasya  mukhe 
samaves'ayan  [  ^'vapa  ^sya  mukham  praurnauti'^  iti  sUtrat  |  Comm.;  who  seems, 
therefore  to  understand  paristaranika  of  fat  (see  Miiller  as  cited  in  the  article  re- 
ferred to  in  note  192).  The  commentator,  however,  gives  also  another  reading  and 
explanation  which  I  quote :  Tirthas  tu  anustaranikm  rajnah  iti  pathitm  anusia- 
ranikm  rajagmlm  tam  alaihya  tachcharmana  yajamanam  astritavantah  ity  arthah  | 
"  But  Tirtha  (a  previous  commentator)  reads  anustaranikm  rajnah,  and  explains  the 
sense  thus :  having  immolated  a  rajagavi  (bos  grunniens),  they  covered  the  sacrifice 
with  its  skin." 

191  I  insert  here  part  of  Gorresio's  text  for  comparison  (vi.  96,  10  ff.) :  Tatas  te 
veda-vidvaSisas  tain  rajnah  paichimam  kriyam  |  ehakrire  rakshasendrasya  preta- 
medham  anuttamam  \  vedmcha  dakshina-praehyam  yatka-sthanam  cha  pavakam  \ 
Vibhishanas  tu  samprapya  titshrpm  samasrijat  sruvam  ]  prishadajyasya  sampurnan 
a'ruvan  sarmn  yathavidhi  \  Eavanasya  tada  sarve  vashpa-purna-mukhah  dvijSh  | 
padayoh  sakatam  chakrur  antarorm  tidulehalam  \  vanaspatyani  chSnyani  antare  'pi 
vyadhapayan  j  dattvd  tu  mushalam  chaiva  yathdsthanam  mahatmanah  \  sastra- 
drishtena  vidhina  maharshi-vihitena  aha  \  tatah  pahhat  pastm  hatva  rakshasendrasya 
rakshasali  \  athastaranikam  aarvaih  ghritaktam  samaves'ayan  \ 


BEAHMANIOAL  KITES.  415 

with  Vedio  rites,  a  funeral  pile  of  faggots  of  sandalwood,  with 
"padmaka"  wood,  "u^ira"  grass,  an"d  sandal,  and  covered  with  a 
quilt  of  deer's  hair.  They  then  performed  an  unrivalled  obsequial 
ceremony  for  the  Eakshasa  prince,  [placing]  the  sacrificial  ground  to 
the  south-east  and  the  fire  in  the  proper  situation.  They  cast  the  ladle 
filled  with  curds  and  ghee  on  the  shoulder  ^^'  (of  the  deceased) ;  they 
placed  the  car  on  the  feet,  and  the  mortar  between  the  thighs.  Having 
deposited  all  the  wooden  vessels,  the  [upper]  and  lower  firewood  (arani), 
and  the  other  pestle,  in  their  proper  places,  they  departed.  The 
Eakshasas  having  then  slain  a  victim  to  their  prince  in  the  manner 
prescribed  in  the  S'astras,  and  enjoined  by  great  rishis,  cast  [into  the 
fire]  the  coverlet  of  the  king  saturated  with  butter.  They  then, 
Vibhishana  included,  with  afflicted  hearts,  adorned  Havana  with 
perfumes  and  garlands,  and  with  various  vestments,  and  besprinkled 
him  with  fried  grain,  their  faces  being  covered  with  tears.  Vibhi- 
shana having  bathed,  and  having,  with  his  clothes  wet,  scattered  in 
proper  form  "tila"  seeds  mixed  with  "darbha"  grass,  and  moistened 
with  water,  applied  the  fire  [to  the  pile]."  '" 

Gorresio  remarks  (note  94,  p.  310,  vol.  x.)  that  the  funeral  rites  of 
the  Arian  Brahmans  are  here  introduced  as  practised  among  the 
Eakshasas,  a  race  of  different  origin  and  worship,  in  the  same  way  as 
Homer  represents  Grecian  ceremonies  as  having  been  celebrated  in 
Troy. 

192  "According  to  Apastamba  (says  the  commentator),  it  should  have  been  placed 
on  the  nose;  this  must  therefore  have  been  done  in  conformity  with  some  other 
Sutras"  [yadyapi  "nasilce  sruvav"  'tty  Apastamhenohtam  tathapi  gutrantarat  siandhe 
'pi  nihshepah  srwvasya  bodhyah).  Compare  Professor  MilUer's  article  on  the  funeral 
ceremonies  of  the  Brahmans  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society  for  18SS, 
pp.  vi.  ff. 

'9'  On  this  whole  passage  the  commentator  remarks :  "  Tatyajm  tarn  mahabhagam, 
pancAa-bhutani  Mavunam  \  sartra-dhatavo  hy  asya  mamsam  rudhiram  eva  cha  \  nestir 
brahnidstra-nirdagdhah  na  cha  bhasmapy  adrisyata"  iti  Mahabharate  uktatvena 
kaaya  Valmikina  sma^ananayana-purvakam  dahah  uktah  Hi  ohm  na  |  tasya  Sama- 
vam-tejo-varmna-vishaye  'tyukty-alankara-paratvSd  iti  vadati  \  "  Since  it  is  said 
in  the  Mahabharata  (Ramopakhyana,  in  Vana-parvan  16529  f.)  that  'the  five  elements 
forsook  the  great  Bavana,  and  the  constituents  of  his  body,  flesh,  and  blood  perished, 
when  he  was  burnt  up  by  the  divine  weapon  (firahmastra),  and  not  even  any  ashes 
were  seen ; ' Рђћ who  is  it  that  is  here  alleged  by  Valmiki  to  have  been  brought  to  the 
cemetery  and  then  burnt  ?  If  any  one  raises  this  objection,  I  deny  that  there  is  any 
difficulty,  as  in  the  description  of  Eama's  prowess  the  Mahabharata  makes  use  of  the 
ornament  of  exaggeration." 


416  INDEAJIT  SACRIFICES  TO  FIEE, 

Nor  does  it  appear  that  in  the  rites  described  in  the  following  passage 
(of  Gorresio's  edition)  which  are  said  to  have  been  performed  by  Indra- 
jit,  the  son  of  Eavana,  there  is  anything,  except  the  "  Kakshasa  texts," 
contrary  to  Brahmanioal  usages.  As,  however,  the  commentator  (in 
the  Bombay  ed.),  in  his  note  on  another  passage,  represents  the  worship 
at  the  Nikumbhila  as  being  offered  to  Kali,  and  as  the  description  is 
of  some  interest,  I  will  quote  it  at  length :  ''* 

Ramayana  vi.  19,  38  ff.  (Grorr.). Рђћ Indrajit  tu  tatas  tena  samyuge 
' dbhuta-Mrind  \  nirjito  JSdli-puirena  hrodham  chahre  sudarunam  \  so 
^ntardhana-gatah  papo  Ravanih  rana-harhaiah  \  nikumbhilaydm  vidhi-vat 
Pdvahafk  juhuve  'stra-vit  |  j'uhvatas  tasya  tatrdgnau  rahtoshmshdmbara- 
arajah  \  ajahrus  tatra  sambhrdntdh  Rdkshasah  yatra  Ravanih  \  sastrani 
sitadhdrdni  samidho   'tha  vibhltahdn  \    lohitani  cha  vdsdmsi  sruvaih 

194  Xhe  Bomtay  edition  (vi.  44,  32  ff.)  giTes  the  first  verse  and  tlie  iirst  half  of  the 
second  nearly  as  they  stand  in  Gorresio's  edition,  and  the  second  half  of  the  second, 
with  its  sequel,  as  follows:  Brahma-datta-varo  viro  Savanih  krodha-murehhitah  \ 
adriiyo  nisiian  vanan  mumochasani-varchasah  |  "  The  son  of  Eavaua,  to  whom  a 
boon  had  been  given  by  Brahma,  mad  with  rage,  discharged  sharp  arrows,  gleaming 
like  lightnings."  No  mention  is  made  of  the  sacrifice  in  the  Bombay  text.  In  Rama- 
yana,  book  v.,  sect  24  (Bombay  ed.),  it  is  related  that  the  female  Rakshasas  had  been 
threatening  Si  ta  after  her  capture  by  Ravana,  because  she  would  not  yield  to  his  desires, 
and  that  one  of  them,  S'urpanakha,  acceding  to  a  proposal  to  eat  her,  says  (t.  44  f.) : 
Sura  ehanlyatam  kshipram  aana-ioka-vinaiini  \  manusham  mamsam  asvadya  nrityamo 
'tha  nikumbhilam  |  "And  let  wine  be  quickly  brought,  which  annihilates  all  sorrows. 
Enjoying  human  flesh,  let  us  dance  at  the  Mkumbhila."  The  comment  on  this 
passage  states  that  the  Nikumbhila  was  an  image  of  BhadrakalT  on  the  west  side  of 
Lanka  {Nikumbhila  nama  Zankayah  paschima-bhaga-vartini  Bhadrakali  \  tam 
nriiyainah  tat-samipam  gatva  nrityamah).  In  the  Uttara  Kanda  (sect.  25,  v.  2)  we 
are  told  that  Ravana,  with  his  attendants,  entered  "  the  Nikumbhila,  a  grove  in 
Lanka"  {tato  nikumbhila  nama  Zankopavamam  uttatnam) .  The  commentator  says 
it  was  "  a  wood  situated  at  the  western  gate  of  Lanka  for  the  performance  of  rites  " 
{Zanka-paschima-dvara'desa'Varti-karma-siddhi-hetU'bhutam  Jcananam),  His  son 
Indrajit,  with  the  aid  of  the  Brahman  Us'anas,  had  been  celebrating  there  the  seven 
sacrifices,  the  "agnishtoma,"  " as'vamedhha,"  "rajasuya,"  "gomedha"  (cow-sacrifice), 
the  Vaishnava  ceremonial,  etc.  "When  he  had  performed  the  Mahe^vara  ofi'ering, 
"which  it  is  dificult  for  men  to  obtain,"  he  obtained  boons  from  Mahadeva,  who  ap- 
peared to  him  {ibid,  verses  3  ff.).  (This  is  the  ceremony  alluded  to  above,  in  p.  412.) 
But  he  had  also  been  performing  the  Vaishnava  rite ;  which,  however,  is  not  said  to 
have  been  productive  of  any  results.  Verses  7b  ff.  of  this  section  are  as  follows : 
Tajnas  te  sapta  putrena  praptas  te  bahu-vistarah  |  8.  Agnishtomo  'ivamedhas  cha 
yajno  bahusuvarnakali  \  rajasuyas  tatha  yajno  gomedho  Vaishnavas  fatha  \  9.  Mahes- 
vare  pravritte  tu  yajne  pumbhih  sudurlabhe  |  varaihs  te  labdjiavan  putrah  sakshat 
Pasupater  iha  \  Only  six  kinds  of  sacrifice  are  here  mentioned,  unless  the  word 
"  Bahusuvarnaka  "  stands  for  a  seventh. 


AND  OBTAINS  AN  INVISIBLE  CHAEIOT.  417 

harsKayasam  tatah  \  sarvato  'gnifh  samdstirya  iaraih  sa-prcLsa-tomaraih  \ 
ehhagalmyapi  krishnaiya  IcantMd  ddaya  Jwatah  |  sonita&  tena  vidhivat 
sajuhava  ranotmkal),  \  sahrid  eva  samiddhasya  vidhumaaya  maharohishah\ 
halhuvuh  samnimittani  vijayam  yany  medayan  \  pradahshinavarta-MTchas 
tapta-hdtaka-sannibhah  \  havis  tat  pratijagrdha  Pdvahah  svayam  utthitah  \ 
tato  'gni-madhydd  uttasihau  kdnoJianah  syandanottamah\  eJiatv/rhhih  kdn- 
ehanapidair  ahair  yuktah  prahhadrakaih  \  antardhdna-gatah  irimdn 
dzpta-pdvaka-saprabhah  \  hutdgnim  tarpayitvd  cha  daitya-ddnava-rdksha- 
sdn  I  vdchayitvd  tatah  svasti  prayuktaiir  dvijdtilhih  \  druroha  ratham 
ireshtham  antar-dhdna-charam  Suhham  \  sva-va^yair  vdjiWdr  yukta'Hi 
sastraU  oka  vividhair  yuiam  .  .  .  50.-  Jdmbunadamayo  ndgas  tarund- 
ditya-sannihhah  \  hahhuvendrajitah  ketur  vaidurya-samalankritah  \  Sutvd 
^gnim  Rdkshasair  mantrais  tato  vachanam  ahramf  \ 

"  But  Indrajit,  being  conquered  in  the  conflict  by  the  miracle-work- 
ing son  of  Bali,  became  inflamed  with  terrific  anger.  This  wicked  son 
of  Ravana,  fierce  in  battle,  having  become  invisible,  made  an  oblation, 
to  Pavaka  (Fire)  in  due  form,  on  the  sacrificial  ground.  "When  he  was 
there  throwing  his  oblation  into  the  fire,  wearing  a  red  turban,  gar- 
ments, and  garland,  the  reverent  Eakshasas  brought  thither  sharp- 
edged  weapons,  logs  of  wood,  and  myrobalan,  blood-red  vestments,  and 
a  ladle  of  black  iron.  Having  heaped  the  fire  all  over  with  arrows, 
darts,  and  iron  maces,  and  having  drawn  blood  from  the  throat  of  a 
live  black  goat,  he  offered  it  as  an  oblation,  being  eager  for  battle.  At 
the  same  time  there  appeared  from  the  brightly-burning  and  smokeless 
fire  omens  which  portended  victory.  Pavaka  himself,  rising,  with  his 
flame  sweeping  round  to  the  right,  and  luminous  as  refined  gold,  received 
the  oblation.  Then  from  the  midst  of  the  fire  there  arose  a  magnificent 
golden  chariot,  drawn  by  four  lucky  horses  with  golden  head-ornaments; 
but  became  invisible,  while  glorious  and  lustrous  as  burning  fire.  Having 
satiated  the  sacrificial  fire,  with  the  Daityas,  Danavas,  and  Eakshasas, 
having  caused  a  benediction  {svasti)  to  be  pronounced,  and  been  blessed 
by  the  Brahmans,  [Indrajit]  ascended  the  beautiful  chariot,  moving 
invisibly,  drawn  by  self-directed  horses,  and  furnished  with  various 

weapons 50.   A  golden  serpent, "┬░  bright  as  the  rising  sun, 

and  adorned  with  lapis  lazuli,  formed  the  banner  of  Indrajit.     Having 
made  an  oblation  to  Fire  with  Kakshasa  texts,  he  then  spake,"  etc. 

"*  See,  in  reference  to  this,  the  quotation  from  Signor  Gorresio  given  sboye  in  p,  412. 

VOL.   IV.  27 


418  OEREMONT  PEEFORMED  BY  INDRAJIT. 

The  ceremony  of  Indrajit  is  again  alluded  to  by  Viblusliana  in  vi, 
84,  14  ff.  (Bombay  ed.=Ti.  63,  13,  of  Gorr.  ed.) : 

Ghaityarh  nikumhhilam  adya  prapya  homam  Tcarishyati  \  Eutavan 
npayato  hi  devair  api  sa-vasavaih  \  durddharsho  Ihmaty  esha  sangrdme 
JRdvandtmafah  |  ....  16.  Sa-sainyds  tatra  gaohhdmo  ydvat  tan  na 
mmdpyate  \  ....  23.  Samdpta-Tcarmd  hi  sa  Rdlcshasarshahho  hhavaty 
adrisyah  samare  surdsuraih  \  yuyutsata  tena  samapta-harmand  hhcmet 
surandm  api  salhiayo  mahdn  \  "Having  to-day  resorted  to  the  sacri- 
ficial ground,  he  will  offer  an  oblation  (homo).  When  he  approaches 
after  making  this  offering,  this  son  of  B,avana  is  invincible  by  gods 

and  Vasavas 16,  Let  us  go  thither  with  our  hosts  before  that 

ceremony  is  completed 23.  For  when  he  has  accomplished  his 

rite,"┬░  that  prince  of  the  Ratshasas  becomes  invisible  by  either  gods 
or  Asuras  in  battle;  and  even  the  gods  would  hesitate  to  encounter 
him  if  he  desired  to  fight." 

In  the  following  section  Vibhishana  returns  to  the  subject  (vi.  85,, 
12,  Bombay  ed.=vi.  64,  11  of  Gorr.): 

Tena  virena  tapasd  vara-danat  Svayambhuvah  \  astram  irahma-sirah 
prdptam  kdmagdi  cha  turangamdh  \  sa  esha  saha  sainyena  praptah  kila 
nihumhhildm  I  yady  uttishthet  kritam  karma  hatdn  sarvdmi  cha  viddhi 
nah  I  nikumbhildm  asamprdptam,  akritdgnim  cha  yo  ripuh  I  tvam  dtaid- 
yinam  hanydt  Indraiatro  sa  te  hadhah  \  "This  hero  has  obtained  through 
austerity,  and  by  the  gift  of  Svayambhu,  a  weapon  called  '  brahma- 
siras,'  and  horses  that  go  according  to  his  will.  He  with  his  army  has 
reached  the  sacrificial  ground.  If  he  rises  after  completing  his  cere- 
mony, you  may  regard  us  all  as  destroyed.  But  if  any  foe  slays  thee, 
thou  cruel  tyrant  (Indrajit),  before  thou  hast  reached  that  ground,'" 

Рђб'8  It  is  related  in  the  ITttara  Kanda  30,  12  ff.,  that  after  his  victory  over  Indra, 
Indrajit  asked,  and  obtained,  this  buon  as  the  condition  of  releasing  his  captive  foe. 
For  a  summary  of  the  story  of  Indra  and  Indrajit,  see  the  Appendix. 

'"  Explained  by  the  commentator  as  nikmnbhilam  tad-ynga-bhumim  mahakali- 
kshetram  tad-akhya-nyagrodha-mula-rupam  \  "  That  sacrificial  ground,  the  sacred 
precinct  of  the  great  Kill Рђћ viz.  the  root  of  the  nyagrodha  tree  so  called."  This 
tree  is  mentioned  in  vi  87,  2  ff.,  Bombay  ed.  ( =vi  66,  2,  Gorr.  ed.) :  .  .  .  .  pravisya 
tu  mahad  vanam  \  adariayatct  tat-karma'Lahshmsnaya  VibATskanah  \  nlla-jtmuta- 
scmkasam  nyagrodham  bhhnadarsanam  |  tejasv'i  Rdvana-bhrala  Lakshmanaya  nyave- 
dayat  \  ihopaharam  bhittanam  balavan  Mmanatmajah  \  upahritya  tatah  paUhat 
sangramam  abhivcirtate  \  adrisyah  sarva-bhiitandm  tato  bhavati  Sakshaaah  \  nihanti 
samare  iatrun  badhnnti  cha  iarottamuih  \  tarn  apravishtam  nyagrodham  balimm 
Ravanatmajam  \  vidhiamsaya  sarair  d'ptair  ityadi  \ 


РќаWHETHER  THE  EAKSHASAS  "WOESHIPPED  MAHADEVA.    419 

and  kindled  the  fire,  this,  0  enemy  of  India,  is  the  manner  of  thy 
death,"  etc. 

It  is  related  in  the  following  section  (86,  14,  f.,  Bombay  ed.  =  65, 
12  G-orr.)  that  he  rose  before  his  rite  had  been  completed : 

Svam  anilcam  vishannam  fu  drishtvd  iatrulMr  arditam  |  udatishthata 
dwdharshah  m  Tear  mam/  ananushthite  \  vrikshandhalcarad  nir^amya  jdta- 
hrodhah  sa  Rctvanih  \  ityadi  \  "Hearing  that  his  army  was  harassed  by 
their  enemies,  and  dispirited,  the  irresistible  (Eakshasa)  arose  while 
his  ceremony  was  unaccomplished.  Issuing  forth  from  the  gloom  of 
the  tree,  the  son  of  Eavana,  incensed,  mounted  his  chariot,"  etc. 

Again,  in  a  passage  of  the  Sundara  Kanda,  or  Fifth  Book,  sect.  89, 
w.  22  flf.  (only  found  in  Gorresio'^s,  not  in  the  Bombay  ed.),  which 
forms  the  sequel  to  the  one  given  above,  p.  370,  Mahadeva  i&  repre- 
sented as  receiving  Vibhishana  with  favour,  after  he  had  deserted  his 
brother  Eavana.  Now  if  the  author  of  the  poem  had  intended  to 
represent  8'iva  as  an  especial  object  of  adoration  to  the  Eakshasas,  he 
Blight  have  been  expected  to  describe  this  deity  as  repaying  their 
worship  with  especial  favour  and  affection;  but  it  is  inconsistent 
with  this  that  he  should  represent  S'iva  as  receiving  favourably  a 
deserter  from  the  Eakshasa  camp. 

There  is  a  section  (the  forty-first)  of  the  Tuddha  Kanda,  or  Sixth 
Book  (which,  however,  is  to  be  found  only  in  Gorresio's  ed.),  wherein 
Ravana  defies  Vishnu  at  great  length.  But  I  do  not  consider  this  as 
any  proof  that  the  poet  intended  to  attribute  to  the  speaker  any  especial 
hostility  to  Vishnu's  worship  (particularly  as  Indra,  S'iva,  and  Brahma 
are  also  slightingly  spoken  of ),  but  rather  as  a  demonstration  called 
forth  by  the  poetical  necessities  of  the  argument.  Even  while  the 
poet  represented  Eama  as  the  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  it  was  of  course 
natural  to  make  the  arrogant  Eavana  defy  him.  The  fact  is,  that  the 
traits  ascribed  to  the  Eakshasas  in  the  Eamayana  must  be  regarded  as 
poetical  far  more  than  historical.  The  poet  assigns  to  his  personages 
such  characteristics  as  he  considered  at  the  moment  to  be  most  con- 
ducive to  the  interest,  and  effective  with  a  view  to  the  action,  of  his 
poem.  These  characteristics  are  sometimes  absolutely  contradictory, 
as  when  Eavana  is  described  both  as  an  observer  of  the  Vedas  und  at 
the  same  time  as  a  persecutor  of  Brahmans  and  polluter  of  their 
sacrifices.     I  do  not  therefore  see  that  the  Eamayana  supplies  any 


420  PASSAGE  OF  THE  EENA  UPANISHAD 

sufficient  grounds  for  regarding  the  non-Arian  tribes  of  Southern  India 
as  being  especially  addicted  to  the  worship  of  S'iva.Рёб 

Sect.  VIII. Рђћ The  earlier  and  later  representations  of  Uma,  the 
wife  of  Siva. 

"We  have  already  seen  (p.  267)  that  in  the  Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  (3,  57) 
Ambika,  who  at  a  later  period  is  identified  with  the  wife  of  Budra,  is 
declared  to  be  his  sister."' 

The  earliest  work,  as  far  as  I  am  aware,  in  which  the  name  of  TJma 
occurs,  is  the  Talavakara,  or  Eena  Upanishad.  In  the  third  section  of 
that  Treatise  (see  Dr.  Roer's  translation  in  the  Bibliotheca  Indica, 
vol.  XV.,  p.  83  ff.)  it  is  mentioned  that  on  one  occasion  Brahma  gained 
a  victory  for  the  gods.  As,  however,  they  were  disposed  to  ascribe  the 
credit  of  their^snoeess  to  themselves,  Brahma  appeared  for  the  purpose 
of  disabusing  them  of  their  mistake.  The  gods  did  not  know  him, 
and  commissioned  first  Agni,  and  then  Vayu,  to  ascertain  what  this 
apparition  was.  "When,  in  answer  to  Brahma's  inquiry,  these  two  gods 
represented  themselves,  the  one  as  having  the  power  to  burn,  and  the 
other  as  able  to  blow  away,  anything  whatever,  he  desired  them  to 
burn  and  to  blow  away,  respectively,  a  blade  of  grass ;  but  they  were 
unable  to  do  this,  and  returned  without  ascertaining  who  he  was. 
Indra  was  then  commissioned  (Kena  Up.  iii.  11,  12;  and  iv.  1,  2): 

"*  It  is  also  related  in  the  Uttara  Kanda  of  the  Eamayana  (sections  4-8,  of  which 
I  shall  give  the  substance  in  the  Appendix)  that  a  RiJkshasa  named  Suke^a  had 
formerly  received  a  boon  from  Mahadeva  and  Parvati,  and  that  his  three  sons,  the 
lords  of  Lanka,  had  made  an  attack  npon  the  gods,  but  had  been  driven  back  and 
defeated  by  Vishuu,  and  compelled  to  take  refuge  in  Patala.  But  neither  does  this, 
nor  even  the  Linga-worship  attributed  to  Havana  in  the  Uttara  Kanda  31,  42  ┬Б> 
suifice  to  prove  any  special  adoration  of  S'iva  among  the  southern  races  more  than 
among  the  northern. 

199  Rodasi  is  his  wife  according  to  the  Nirukta  xi.  49;  and  xii.  46;  Sodasi 
Hudiasya  patwi.  Sayana,  however,  on  R.V.  i.  167,  4  and  5,  says  that  she  is  the 
wife  of  the  Maruts.  On  v.  4  his  words  are ;  Tasya  {Rudrasya)  stri  Rodasi  iti 
hechid  ahuh  |  apare  tu  Maru'am  sfriiio  Eodas'  iti  namadheyam  ity  ahuh  |  ayam  eva 
pakaho  yuktah  uttaratra  evam  vyavaharat  \  "  Some  say  Bodasi  is  Budra's  wife. 
Others  say  Rodasi  is  the  name  of  the  wife  of  the  Maruts.  This  is  the  correct  view, 
from  the  word  being  so  applied  afterwards  "  (in  the  next  verse).  On  verse  5  Sayana 
says:  Rodasi  Marut-patni  vidyud  m.  "Eodasi  is  the  wife  of  the  Maruts,  or 
Lightning."  In  this  verse  she  receives  the  epithet  of  I'ishita-stukd,  "  having  dis- 
hevellud  hair,"  and  is  said  to  seek  the  society  of  the  Maruts  {Joshad  yad  im  asurya 
sachudhyai  vishita-stuka  Rodas'  nrimanah).  I  doubt  if  she  is  much,  if  at  all, 
noticed  in  the  later  literature.     See  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  148  and  345. 


IN  "WHICH  UMA  HAIMATATI  IS  MENTIONED.  421 

Atha  Indram  ahriwan  "Maghcwann  etad  vijaniM  kim  eiad  yaksham"  iti\ 
"tathd"  iti  tad  ahhyadrmiat  tasmat  tirodadhe  \  12.  Sa  taeminn  eva 
akdse  striyam  ajagama  lahu  iolhamanam  Umdm  Hmmmattm  \  tarn  ha 
uvdoha  kim  etad  yahsham  iti  \  iv.  1.  Sd  Brahma  iti  ha  imdcha  Brah- 
mano  vai  etad-vijaye  mahiyadhvam  iti  \  tato  ha  em  viddnehakara  Brahmeti  f 
"  They  then  said  to  Indra,  '  Maghavan,  ascertain  what  this  apparition 
is.'  He  replied,  '  So  be  it ; '  and  approached  that  being,  who  vanished 
from  him.  In  that  sky  he  came  to  a  woman  who  was  rery  resplendent, 
TJma  Haimavati.  To  her  he  said,  'What  is  this  apparition?'  She 
said,  'It  is  Brahma.  In  this  victory  of  Brahma,  exult.'  By  this  he 
knew  that  it  was  Brahma."  ^'"' 

In  his  remarks""  on  this  passage  of  the  Eena  ITpanishad  (Ind.  Stud, 
ii.  186  ff.).  Professor  "Weber  supplies  an  interesting  and  ingenious  con┬╗ 
tribution  to  the  mythological  history  of  Uma.  He  says:  *'The 
representation  in  sections  3  and  4  indicates  that  the  Kena  "U'panishad 
was  produced  at'  a  time  when, Рђћ in  place  of  the  three  principal  gods, 
Agni,  Vayu,  and  Surya,"┬░"  who  had  become  developed  into  the  conjoint 
representatives  of  the  divine  principle  on  earth,  in  the  atmosphere, 
and  in  heaven, Рђћ Agni,  Yayu,  and  Indra  were  regarded  as  such.  These 
are  properly  only  two,  since  Indra  is  essentially  identical  with  Vayu, 
Though  I  have  found  numerous  examples  of  the  first  triad,  especially 
in  the  two  Yajur-vedas,  I  have  noticed  only  one  other  of  the  second 
triad,  which  is  properly  only  a  duad,  viz.  in  the  Eik-text  of  the 
Purusha  Sukta  (E.V.  x.  99,  IS).     Nor  am  I  able  to  give  a  satisfactory 

MO  Xiaa  is  explained  by  the  commentator:  Tasya  Indrasya  yalcshe  hhaJctim  huddhva 
Yidya  Xfma-rupint  pradurabhut  stri-rupa  \  sa  Indras  tam  Vmam  hahu  sobhamanam 
aurvesMm  hi  iobhanidnanam  sobhanatamam  Vidyam  tada  "bahu  iobhamana"  iti 
viseshanam  vpapcmnam  bhavati  |  Haimavafim  hema-lcritabharanavattm  iva  bahu 
sobhamanam  ity  arthah  \  athema  Uma  eva  Simcmato  duhita  Saimavatt  nityam  eva 
sarvajnena  Idvarena  saha  vartate  iti  Jnatum  samartha  iti  kritva  tarn  vpajagama 
Indras  tarn  ha  Umam  hila  imaeha  papraehha  kim  etad  darSayitva  tirobhutam  yalcsham  | 
"Knowing  Indra's  devotion  to  this  apparition,  Knowledge,  in  the  form  of  a  woman, 
ITma,  appeared.  Indra  [came]  to  her  who  was  very  resplendent,  to  Knowledge  who 
is  the  most  resplendent  of  all  the  resplendent  beings,  and  whose  epithet  '  Tery  re- 
splendent '  is  then  established.  '  Haimavati '  means  that  she  was  very  resplendent 
like  a  female  with  ornaments  made  of  gold.  Or,  it  was  TJma  Haimavati,  the  daughter 
of  Himavat,  who  from  continually  dwelling  with  the  omniscient  I^vara  (Mahadeva) 
is  able  to  know.  "With  this  belief  Indra  approached  Uma,  and  said  to  her,  '  "What 
is  this  apparition  which  appeared  and  vanished  ? ' " 

2<"  .Already  translated  by  Dr.  Boer  (Bibl.  Ind.  xv.  84  ff.). 

Рёб2  See  above,  pp.  163  and  298. 


422  PROFESSOR  ALBRECHT  "WEBER'S 

explanation  of  it.  On  the  other  hand,  the  totality  of  the  divine  was 
already  comprehended  in  Brahman  (neuter),  and  it  is  the  object  of  the 
legend  here  to  make  clear  and  to  enforce  the  supremacy  of  Brahma  over 
all  temporary  divine  manifestations,  and  even  over  the  triad  of  such. 

"But  how  shall  we  explain  the  position  of  TJma  Haimavati,  who 
fcomes  forward  as  mediatrix  between  the  eternal  Brahman  and  the  gods? 
According  to  S'ankara,  she  is  Vidya  (knowledge)  wbo  appears  Uma- 
rupini  (in  the  form  of  TJma)  to  Indra.  The  same  explanation  is  found 
in  Sayana,  who  (on  Taitt.  Ar.  x.  1,  150,  p.  787  of  the  text  in  the 
Bibliotheoa  Indica),  when  interpreting  the  word  soma,  cites  this  pas- 
sage, and  remarks  :  Simmat-pul/ryah  Gauryah  Irahma-vidyabhimani- 
rupatvad  Gaurl-vaohakah  Uma-iabdo  Irahma-vidyam,  iipalahhayuti  \ 
Utah  eva  Talavaharopanishadi  hrahma-vidya-murti-praatdve  Irahma- 
vidya-murtih  pathyate  "  haJm  Sohhamdndm  Umam  Saimavatlm  tarn  ha 
uvdoha^'  iti  \  iad-vishayah  Pararndtrnd'"^  Umayd  saha  vartamdnatvdt 
Somah  \  '  [Since  Grauri,  the  daughter  of  Himavat,  is  the  impersona- 
tion of  divine  knowledge,  the  word  Uma,  which  denotes  G-aur?,  in- 
dicates divine  knowledge.  Hence  in  the  Talavakara  TJpanishad,  in 
the  passage  on  the  impersonation  of  divine  knowledge,  the  impersona- 
tion of  divine  knowledge  is  introduced  in  these  words:  "He  said  to 
the  very  resplendent  Uma  Haimavati.  The  supreme  Spirit,  who  is 
the  object  of  this  Divine  Enowledge,  from  his  existing  together 
with  TJma,  is  called  Soma  (i.e.  /Sa-f  Vma.^J '  ^'^  And  again  in  the 
same  commentary  on  Anuvaka  48,  it  is  said :  Uind  hrahma-vidyd 
tayd  saha  vartamdna  Soma  paramdtman  |  'Uma  is  divine  know- 
ledge :  thou  who  existest  with  her,  0  Soma,  supreme  spirit,'  etc. 
Further  in  the  same  commentary  on  Anuvaka  18,  in  explanation 
of  the  term  Ambikd-pataye,  we  have  the  words :  Ambikd  jaganmdtd 
Pdrvatl  tasyah  bhartre  \  '  Ambika  is  ParvatI,  the  mother  of  the 
world, Рђћ to  her  husband,'  etc.;  and  the  word  Umdpataye  (which  stands 
in  the  Dravida,  but  not  in  the  Andhra,  text  of  the  Taitt.  Ar.)  is 
thus  interpreted:  Tasyah  eva  Irahma-vidydtmako  dehah  Vmd-iabdeno- 
ahyate  iasyah  svdmine  J  '  Her  (Ambika's)  body,  consisting  of  divine 
knowledge,  is  designated  by  the  word  Uma Рђћ to  her  (Uma's)  husband,' 

203  [The  word  Paramatma  ia  not  in  .the  text  as  given  by  Weber.] 
Рёб*  [The  same  explanation  of  Soma  is  given  in  the  Atharva^iras  XTpanishad,    See 
ahove,  p.  302.] 


EEMAEKS  ON  UMA  HAIMAVATI.  423 

eto.'"'  This  last  passage  is  the  only  one  ia  the  circle  of  the  Vedic 
writings  in  which Рђћ with  the  exception  of  that  in  the  Kena  Upanishad 
Рђћ I  have  as  yet  directly  met  with  the  name  Uma ;  for  the  expression 
'  Uma-sahaya '  in  the  Kaivalya  TJpanishad  (see  ahove,  p.  363)  no 
longer  belongs  to  the  Vedic  period;  and  further,  though  the  com- 
mentaries in  other  places  also^Рёб  explain  'soma'  by  'Umaya  sahita,' 
'accompanied  by  Uma'  (as  Sayana  has  done  in  the  passage  above 
cited),  such  an  interpretation  is  just  as  groundless  as  in  the  texts 
commented  on  by  Sayana,  where  the  word  signifies  simply  the  Soma- 
libation.  Prom  the  considerations  just  stated,  therefore  (i.e.  partly 
from  the  unanimity  of  the  commentaries,  and  partly  from  the  very 
position  which  Uma  here  assumes  in  the  Eena  Upanishad),  the  signifi- 
cation of  this  word  might  seem  to  be  fixed  with  tolerable  certainty  as 
denoting  ' Brahma- vidy a,'  'divine  knowledge,'  and  Uma  might  appear 
to  be  directly  related  to  SarasvatI,  the  divine  word,  and  we  might  even 
be  tempted  to  bring  her  into  etymological  connexion  with  the  sacred 
word  '  om.'  There  are,  however,  some  additional  points  which  seen! 
to  place  the  original  signification  of  Uma  in  quite  a  different  light. 
Pirst  of  all,  why  is  she  called  HaimavatI  ?  Whalf  has  she  to  do  with 
the  Himavat  ?  Is  it  that  the  Brahma- vidya  (divine  knowledge)  came 
originally  from  the  Himavat  to  the  Arians  dwelling  in  Madhyadela 
(the  central  region  of  Hindustan)  ?  "We  have  learnt  from  the  Kaushi- 
tak!  Brahmana  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  153)  that  the  north  of  India  was  dis- 
tinguished by  greater  purity  of  speech,  and  that  students  travelled 
thither  to  learn  the  language  {vaeham  Sikshitum),  and  on  their  return 
thence  enjoyed  great  consideration  and  authority.  Now  it  would  have 
been  quite  natural  if  this  state  of  things  had  not  been  confined  to 
language,  but  had  become  extended  to  speculation  also,  and  if  the 
knowledge  of  the  one,  eternal  Brahma,  had  been  sooner  attained  in 
the  peaceful  valleys  of  the  Himalaya  than  was  possible  for  men  living 

265  [The  entire  text  of  the  Anuvaka,  and  the  part  of  its  commentary  -which  refers  to 
the  terms  Amhikapataye  and  JJmapataye,  as  given  in  the  Bibl.  Indlca,  are  as  follows : 
Text :  Namo  hirmyabahme  hiranyavarnaya  hiranyarupaya  hiranyapataye  Amhika- 
pataye Uniapataye  pasv/pataye  namo  namah  \  Comm. :  Ambika  Jayanmata  Farvatt  | 
taayah  pataye  bhartre  \  tasyah  eva  Ambikayah  brahma-vidyatmako  dehah  Vma- 
iabdena  uehyate  |  tadriiyah  VmaySh  pataye  avamine  Budraya  punah  punah  namaskaro 

2┬░^  e.y.  Mahldhara  on  Vaj.  S.  16,  39,  and  Bhatta  Bhaskara  Mis'ra  on  the  corre- 
sponding passage  of  the  Taitt.  Sanhita. 


424  PEOFESSOE  "WEBER'S  REMARKS  ON  UMA, 

in  Madhyade^a,  where  their  minds  -were  more  occupied  by  the  practical 
concerns  of  life.  Such  a  view  of  Uma  Haimavati  appears  to  me, 
however,  to  be  very  hazardous.  For Рђћ not  to  say  that  in  our  ex- 
planations of  the  ancient  Indian  deities  we  act  wisely  when  we  attach 
greater  importance  to  the  physical  than  to  the  speculative  element Рђћ 
we  are  by  no  means  certain  that  TJma  actually  does  signify  divine  know- 
ledge {hrahma-vidi/d);  and,  moreover,  her  subsequent  position  as  Eudra's 
wife  (in  the  Taitt.  Ar.),  and  so  S'iva's,  would  thus  be  quite  inexplicable. 
ITow  there  is  among  the  epithets  of  this  latter  goddess  a  similar  one, 
viz.  ParvatT,  which  would  lead  us  in  interpreting  the  word  Haimavati, 
to  place  the  emphasis  not  upon  the  Himavat,  but  upon  the  mountain 
{parvata):  and  with  this  I  inight  connect  the  epithets  of  Rudra  which 
we  have  learnt  from  the  S'atarudriya  (see  above,  p.  322),  .Giri^a, 
Girisanta,  Giri^aya,  Giritra,  in  which  we  recognize  the  germ  of  the 
conception  of  S'iva's  dwelling  on  KaUasa.  He  is  the  tempest,  which 
rages  in  the  mountains,  and  his  wife  is  therefore  properly  called  Par- 
vati,  Haimavati,  'the  mountaineer,'  'the  daughter  of  Himavat.'  At  the 
same  time  it  is  not  clear  what  we  have  to  understand  by  his  wife;'"" 
and  further  she  is,  perhaps,  originally  not  his  wife,  but  his  sister,  for 
TJma  and  Ambika  are  at  a  later  period  evidently  identical,  and  Ambika 
is  Eudra's  sister  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  183).^Рёб  Besides,  this  identification  of 
Uma  with  Ambika  leads  us  to  a  new  etymology  of  the  former.     Eor  as 

'"''  Indian  mythology,  however,  assigns  wives  to  the  gods,  vrithout  always,  or  even 
generally,  ascribing  to  the  wives  any  specific  cosmical  function.  Weber  adds  in  a 
note :  "  Does  she  perhaps  denote  the  streams  and  torrents,  poured  forth  by  Rudra, 
the  Storm,  from  the  mountains  and  clouds  ?  and  does  the  name  Ambika  stand  in 
direct  relation  thereto  P  In  the  same  way  Sarasvati  also,  the  goddess  of  streams  and 
of  speech,  is  called  Ambitama,  is  addressed  with  the  word  '  Amba,'  and  is  said  to  be 
'produced  on  the  highest  peak  on  the  mountain  top'  {ttttame  sihhare  jata parvata- 
murdhani).  According  to  this  view,  JIma  and  Sarasvati,  Ambika  and  Ambitama, 
Farvatl  and  the  parvata-murdhanijata,  would  perhaps  have  been  originally  identical, 
and  have  only  become  gradually  separated,  in  such  a  way  that  in  the  one  the  violent 
and  destructive  energy  of  nature  had  become  concentrated,  and  in  the  other  the 
harmonious  music  of  the  streaming  waters  P  And  should  we  thus  have  to  seek  in 
the  tJma  of  the  Kena  TJpanishad  and,  on  the  other  hand,  in  the  Varada  of  the  Taitt. 
Ar.  two  examples  of  the  original  identity  of  both  P  Kuhn,  at  least,  as  he  has  in- 
formed me,  holds  Ambika  to  be  decidedly  identical  with  Sarasvati."  [Is  not  a 
certain  confirmation  of  this  supposed  original  connexion  of  Uma  and  Sarasvati  to  be 
found  in  the  fact  that  in  the  mythology  of  the  Eamayana  i.  36,  13  (quoted  below 
in  p.  430)  Uma  is  the  younger,  while  the  river  Ganga  is  the  elder  daughter  of 
Himavat?Рђћ J.M.]  ' 

""B  See  above,  p.  321. 


AND  MAHADEVA'S  SPOUSE  mSTDER  OTHER  NAMES.         425 

Ambika,  'mother,'  appears  to  be  merely  an  euphemistic  and  flattering 
epithet,  employed  to  propitiate  the  cruel  goddess  (see  Mahidhara  on 
Yaj.  S.  3,  57,РёбРђћ just  as  Eudra  was  called  S'iva),  in  the  same  way  it 
appears  that  we  must  derive  TJma  from  the  root  'u,'  'av,'  'to  protect.' 
It  is  true  that  a  final  Towel  before  'ma'  commonly  takes  'guna,'  or 
is  lengthened,  but  the  words  '  sima '  and  '  hima '  show  that  this  is 
not  necessary,  and  the  name  of  Euma  is  perhaps  (unless  we  derive  it 
from  'ram')  a  perfectly  analogous  formation.  It  certainly  remains 
a  mystery  how  we  are  to  conceive  the  cruel  wife  of  Eudra  coming 
forward  here  in  the  Eena  ITpanishad  as  the  mediatrix  between  the 
supreme  Brahma  and  Indra,  for  on  that  supposition  this  Upanishad 
would  have  to  be  referred  to  a  period  when  her  husband,  Eudra,  was 
regarded  as  the  highest  god,  the  Isvara,  and  thus  also  as  Brahma ;  i.e. 
it  would  belong  to  the  period  of  some  S'aiva  sect.  But  since  this 
remains  questionable  and  improbable,  we  must  first  of  all  hold  to  the 
view  that  the  conception  entertained  by  the  commentators  of  Uma  as 
representing  '  divine  knowledge '  rests  solely  upon  this  passage  of  the 
Kena  IJpanishad,  unless  indeed  the  original  identity  of  TJma  with 
Sarasvati,  which  in  the  last  note  was  regarded  as  possible,  is  here 
again  visible. 

"  I  consider  the  present  opportunity  a  favourable  one  for  speaking 
of  some  other  names  of  S'iva's  spouse.  As  in  S'iva,  first  of  all  two 
gods,  Agni  and  Eudra,  are  combined,  so  too  his  wife  is  to  be  regarded 
as  a  compound  of  several  divine  forms,'""  and  this  becomes  quite  evident 
if  we  look  over  the  mass  of  her  epithets.  "While  one  set  of  these,  as 
TJma,,  Ambika,  ParvatT,  Haimavati,  belong  to  the  wife  of  Eudra,  others, 
as  Kali,  Karali  (see  Ind.  Stud.  i.  287)  carry  us  back  to  the  wife  of 
Agni,  while  Gaurl  and  others  perhaps  refer  to  Nirriti,  the  goddess  of 
all  evil. 

209  l^The  words  of  Matldhara  here  referred  to  are :  Yo  'yum  Sudrakhyaji  hruro 
devas  tasya  virodhinam  hantum  ichha  hhavati  tada  anaya  bhaginya  Teruradevataya 
sMhmahhutaya  tarn  hinasti  |  "This  cruel  god  called  Eudra  desires  to  slay  his  enemy. 
Then  by  the  instrumentality  of  this  sister,  a  cruel  goddess,  he  destroys  him."  Then 
follow  the  words  quoted  ahove  in  p.  321,  note  40,  at  the  end.] 

810  II  The  most  remarkable  instance  of  this  is  to  he  found  in  Mahabharata  iy.  178  ff., 
in  the  hymn  of  Yudhishthira  to  Durga,  where  he  calls  her  YasQdd,  Krishna,  'born  in 
the  cowherd  family  of  Nanda,'  '  sister  of  Vasudeva,'  '  enemy  of  Kansa,'  and  '  having 
the  same  features  as  Sankarshana,'  etc.,  etc.  However  late  the  date  of  this  hymn 
maybe,  it  is  still  in  the  highest  degree  remarkable." 


426  f  EOFESSOE  WEBER'S  EEMAEKS  ON  THE 

"The  Tenth.  Book  of  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka,  in  -which  she  is 
several  times  invoked  under  different  names,  is  particularly  important 
for  a  knowledge  of  her  character.  The  principal  passage  in  vrhich 
these  invocations  occur  has  been  already  noticed  above  (Ind.  Stud.  i. 
pp.  75  and  228"").  It  is,  like  the  prayers  which  precede  it,  an 
imitation  of  the  Gayatri,  and  runs  thus:  Katyaywnaya  vidmahe 
Kanyakumdri^"  dhimahi  \  tan  no  Burgih  prachodayat  \  ['We  think 
on  Katyayana  and  meditate  on  Kanyakumari;  may  Durgi  advance 
us.'] 

.  .  .  "Now  it  is  certainly  difficult  grammatically  to  find  in  this 
text  tiie  sense  which  Sayana  puts  into  it,''^  and  which  must  have  been 
traditionally  connected  with  it,  as  that  sense  is  the  basis  of  the  modifi- 
cation of  the  passage  as  found  in  the  Atharva  collection  of  Upanishads. 

"'1  In  the  first  of  these  passages  (Ind.  Stud.  i.  75)  the  author  remarks  that  the 
NarayanTya  Upanishad  (the  part  of  the  Taitt.  Ar.  in  which  the  verse  in  question 
occurs)  is  also  found  among  the  Upanishads  of  the  Atharva-veda,  "  hut  with  remark- 
ahle  variations,  which  indicate  a  later  period.  Thus  the  words  quoted  above  accord- 
ing to  the  reading  in  the  Taitt.  Ar.,  viz.  Katyayanaya  vidmahe  Kanyahumarim 
dhimahi  tan  no  Durgih  prachodayat,  are,  in  the  Upanishad  as  it  is  given  in  the 
Atharva  collection,  changed  into  Katyayanayai  vidmahe  Kanyakumarim  dhimahi 
tan  no  Durga  prachodayat  \  This  agrees  with  the  sense  which  Sayana,  in  his  inter- 
pretation, puts  on  the  words."  In  the  passage  of  the  Linga  Purana  ii.  48,  of  which 
the  commencement  is  given  in  the  third  volume  of  this  work,  p.  263  f.,  this  invocation 
of  Durga  occurs  as  follows  in  verse  26:  Katyayanyai  vidmahe  Kanyakmnaryai 
dhimahi  tan  no  Durga  prachodayat  \ 

"^  The  author  observes  here  that  in  Ind.  Stud,  i,  75,  he  had  incorrectly  given 
Kimyakumarim  as  the  proper  reading.  The  text  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.,  p.  770,  has 
Kanyakumari. 

'"^  Sayana's  interpretation,  as  given  by  Weber  i.  228,  note,  and  here,  is  as  follows : 
PascKad  Durga-gayatrl  \  Sema-prakhyam  indu-khandanka-mauUm  [-antamaulim,  in 
Bibl.  Ind.]  ity  agama-prasiddhtt-murti-dharain  [-rJm,  B.  I.]  Surgam  prarthayate 
"Katyayanaya"  iti  \  krittim  vaste  iti  Katyo  [Kartyo,  B.  I.]  Sudrah  \  ,  .  ,  .  sa 
eva  ayanam  adhisthanam  yasyah  sa  Katyayanl  [Kartyayanl,  B.  I.]  Athava  Katasya 
rishi-viseshaaya  apatyam  Katyah  |  .  .  .  .  Kutiitam  anishtham  marayati  iti  kumari 
kamya  dtpyamSna  chasau  kumari  cha  Kanyakumari  \  Durgih  Durga  \  lingadi- 
vyatyayah  savatra  chhandaso  draahtavyah  |  [There  are  other  variations  in  the  text 
as  given  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.]  .  .  .  .  "  Then  follows  Durga's  gayatri.  In  the  words 
'  Katyanaya,'  etc.,  he  supplicates  Durga,  bearing  the  form  celebrated  in  the  ^astras 
'  as  bright  as  gold,  and  having  for  a  diadem  the  ornament  of  a  section  of  the  moon.' 

Katya  is  he  who  wears  a  skin,  Rudra and  Eatyayanl  is  she  whose  path, 

support,  is  Eatya,     Or,  Katya  is  the  offspring  of  Eata,  a  particular  rishi 

Kumari  is  she  who  destroys  what  is  bad,  undesirable.  She  who  is  both  Kanya, 
'  shining,'  and  Kumari,  is  Kanyakumari.  Durgi  is  Durga.  Diversity  in  forms  is  to 
be  seen  everywhere  in  the  Vedas." 


NAMES  AND  CHAEACTER  OF  MAHADEVA'S  SPOUSE.         427 

All  the  other  gods  who  are  invoked  are  male Рђћ viz.  Eudra,  Mahadeva, 
Danti,  Ifandi,  Shanmukha,  Garuda,  Brahman,  Yishnu,  Narasinha, 
Aditya,  Agni ;  and  it  must  therefore  surprise  us  if  we  are  to  regard 
the  twelfth  deity  as  feminine,  especially  as  the  form  is  masculine.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  sense  of  the  words  seems  to  compel  us  to  adopt  the 

traditional  explanation Moreover,  Eatyayani,  Kanyakumari, 

and  Durga,  are  abeady  well  known  to  us  as  names  of  S'iva's  consort : 
and,  indeed,  they  all  appear  to  carry  us  back  to  the  flame  of  flre.  It 
is  true  that  as  regards  Eatyayani  this  is  somewhat  difficult;  though 
when  we  consider  the  great  importance  of  the  Eatya  family  in  refer- 
ence to  the  sacrificial  system  of  the  Brahmans,  it  does  not  seem  very 
improbable  that  a  particular  kind  of  fire,  which  perhaps  was  introduced 
by  one  of  the  Eatyas,  was  called  after  him,  and  that  this  name  was 
then  associated  with  Eali,  Earall,  and  Durga,  which  are  originally 
mere  appellations  of  flre.  Eanyakumarl,  or  '  the  maidenly,'  is  a  very 
fltting  epithet  of  the  holy,  pure,  sacrificial  flame ;  and  even  at  the 
time  of  the  Periplus,  i.e.  of  Pliny,  we  find  her  worship  extended  to 
the  southernmost  point  of  India,  to  the  Cape  which  was  then,  as  now, 
called  after  her  Cape  Comorin :  but  does  it  not  appear  that  she  was 
then  no  longer  worshipped  as  the  sacrificial  flame,  but  as  the  wife  of 
S'iva  himself  (whose  name  Nilakantha  Lassen  [Ind.  Ant.  i.  194] 
finds  rendered  in  the  NeXKiJvSa  of  the  Periplus)  ?  The  hymn  to  Agni 
in  the  second  anuvaka  of  the  Taittiriya  Aranyaka  (Andhra  re- 
cension) seems  pretty  decisive  in  favour  of  our  connecting  Durga 
with  the  sacrificial  fire.  It  is  there  said''"  in  the  second  verse 
[Bibl.  Ind.,  p.  788]:  Tarn  agnivmrnam  ta^asa  jvalantim  vavro-chanlm 
karma-pJialeshu  Jushtdm  \  Burgam  devlm  iaramm  aham  pra^adye 
mtarasi  tarase  namah,  \  [*  I  seek  as  my  refuge  the  goddess  Durga, 
who  is  of  the  colour  of  fire,  burning  with  austerity  (or  heat),  daughter 
of  the  sun  (or  of  fire),  who  is  sought  after  for  the  reward  of  rites : 
adoration  be  to  thy  energy,  0  impetuous  [goddess].']  The  flve  fol- 
lowing verses  repeat  (as  does  also  the  Durga-stava  in  the  Parisishta) 
the  same  thought,  which  is  also  expressed  in  E.V.  i.  99,"┬░  that  Agni 

2u  II  This  verse  is  also  found  in  the  Burga-stmia  of  the  EdtriparUishta  between 
the  fourteenth  and  fifteenth  divisions  of  the  seventh  section  of  the  eighth  Ashtaka  of 
the,  E.V."  {i.e.  between  Mandala  i.  127  and  128).    See  note  in  the  Appendix. 

216  This  verse  is  as  follows :  Jatmedase  suncwama  somam  aratiyato  nidahati  vedah  | 
sa  nahparshttd  ati  durgani  vUva  naveva  sindhum  durita  Hi  Agnili  | 


428  PROFESSOR  WEBER'S  REMARKS  CONTINUED. 

Рќаyrould  telp  the  suppliant  over  all  'durga'  and  'durita'  (difficulties  and 
evils).  Verse  second  could  certainly  be  understood  as  if  the  Рќаwor- 
shipper turned  to  the  personified  Durgati  (Evil)  herself,  and  sought 
her  protection,  so  that  thus  DurgS,  would  have  arisen  out  of  Nirriti. 
But  it  appears  to  me  better  to  understand  the  passage  of  the  violent 
flame  of  the  fire,  which,  like  the  fire  itself,  delivers,  atones,  and  frees 
from  all  'durga'  and  'durita,'  is  a  'durga,'  a  protecting  fortress,  against 
them ;  so  that  this  name  would  belong  to  the  same  class  as  Ambika, 
S'iva,  Uma.  If  at  a  later  period  Ihirga  decidedly  appears  to  have 
taken  the  place  of  the  evil  goddess  Nirriti,  this  is  no  proof  that  the 
ease  was  so  from  the  beginning,  but  only  shows  that  the  original 
signification  had  been  lost;  which  is  in  so  far  quite  natural,  as  the 
consort  of  S'iva  bore  a  terrific  character,  both  from  her  connexion  with 
Eudra  and  also  with  Agni  (compare  Karali). 

"The  last  name  of  S'iva's  consort  which  I  find  in  the  Taitt.  Ar.  x.  is 
Varada,  in  anuvakas  26  and  30.  It  is  true  that  there  it  appears  rather 
to  be  the  name  of  SarasvatI,  not  of  Durga,  when  it  is  said:  Aydtu 
varada  devl  ahsharam  Irahma-sammitam  \  gayatrim  [^gayatri,  Bibl.  Ind.] 
ehhandasam  mat  a  idam  hrahma  jushasva  me  \  ....  sarvavarne  maha- 
devi  Bwndhya-vidye  Saramati  \  "'  But  the  words  in  anuv.  30  are  not 
so  clear :  TTttame  siKhwrejatd  hhumyam  parvata-murdhani\  hrahmanebhyo 
'Ihyanujnatd  gaehha  dm  yathasuhham  \  stuto  {=stutd  u)  mayd  varada 
veda-mdta  prachodayantl  pa/oane  dnijats,^^''  etc. ;  where  especially  the 
first  strophe  reminds  us  of  ParvatI  and  Haimavati,  and  one  does  not 
rightly  comprehend  how  Saraavati  obtains  such  an  epithet  (unless  we 
are  to  understand  the  waters  streaming  from  the  hills,  since  Sarasvati 
is,  as  is  well  known,  at  once  a  river  goddess  and  the  goddess  of  speech). 
In  the  same  way  the  names  Mahadevi  and  Sandhyavidya  (see  Wilson 
under  Sandhya)  belong  at  a  later  period  exclusively  to  the  consort 

*"  [The  sense  of  these  words,  according  to  the  reading  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.,  is:  "May 
the  boon-hestowing  goddess  (or  the  goddess  Varada)  come :  do  thou,  the  mother  of  the 
Vedas,  the  letter  equivalent  to  the  Veda,  the  gayatri,  receive  with  favour  this  my 
prayer  ...  0  thou  who  hast  all  letters,  great  goddess,  Twilight-science,  Sarasvati." 
The  latter  portion  of  this  quotation  is  not  found  in  the  text  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.] 

2*'  [The  sense  is :  "  Born  on  the  highest  peak,  on  the  earth,  on  the  summit  of  the 
mountain,  dismissed  from  the  Brahmans,  go,  goddess,  wherever  thou  wilt.  Praised 
by  me,  the  boon-bestowing  goddess,  the  mother  of  the  Veda,  twice  born  in  the  air, 
stimulating  us,"  etc.  The  latter  part  of  this  quotation  does  not  occur  in  the  text  as 
given  in  the  Bibl.  Ind.] 


"WEBER'S  COMMENT  ON  PASSAGE  OF  MTJNDAKA  UP.        429 

of  S'lTa.  The  other  names,  however,  '  sarva-varna,'  '  chtandasam 
mata,'  'veda-mata,'  and  finally  'Sarasvati'  itself,  conduct  us  to 
SarasvatI;  and  so  does  also  the  liturgical  usage,  and  the  sense  itself 
of  anuvakas  26-30.  Thus  there  only  remains  to  us  the  possibility  of 
assuming  here  a  blending  (and  so  a  reminiscence  of  the  possible  original 
identity)  of  both  goddesses ;  as  we  may  perhaps  also  assume  in  the  case 
of  Uma  HaimavatI  in  the  Kena  Upanishad,  agreeably  to  the  conjecture 
intimated  above,  p.  189  "  (see  p.  424,  note  207,  above). 

Two  of  the  names  alluded  to  in  the  above  extract  from  the  Indische 
Studien,  which  were  afterwards  applied  to  the  consort  of  S'iva,  viz. 
Kali  and  Karall,  occur  in  a  passage  of  another  of  the  TJpanishads  (the 
Mundaka  i.  2,  4),  where  they  are  appellations  of  two  of  the  differ- 
ent tongues  of  fire :  Kali  Karall  oha  Manojava  oha  Sulohita  yd  cha 
Svdhumra/omrna  \  Sphulinginl  Visvarupi  cha  devl  lelayamanah  iti  sapta 
jihvah  I  which  is  thus  translated  by  Dr.  Roer  (Bibl.  Ind.  xv.  153): 
"The  seven  fiickering  tongues  [of  the  fire]  are Рђћ Kali  (the  black  one), 
KaralT  (the  terrific  one),  Manojava  (swift  as  the  mind),  Sulohita  (the 
very  red  one),  Sudhumravarna  (of  purple  colour),  Sphulingini  (emit- 
ting sparks),  and.  the  Yi^varupl  (aU-shaped)  goddess."  The  words 
*'of  the  fire"  are  not  in  the  original.  The  commentator,  however, 
briefly  remarks:  KsM  Karall  Manojava  cha  Sulohita  cha  ya  cha 
Sudhumra-varnd  Sphulingini  Viivarupl  oha  dem  lelayamanah  dahanasya 
jihvah  \  Agner  havir-ahuti-grasanarthah  etah  sapta  jihvah  \  "Kali, 
Karali,  Manojava,  Sulohita,  Sudhumravarna,  Sphulinginl,  and  the 
goddess  Visvarupi,  are  the  seven  flickering  tongues  of  flre.  These 
are  the  seven  tongues  which  Agni  has  for  devouring  oblations  of 
butter." 

On  this  passage  Prof.  Weber  has  the  following  remarks  in  his  Indische 
Studien  i.  286  f.,  which  are  thus  of  an  earlier  date  than  those  above  cited: 
"  The  first  two  of  these  names  were  at  a  later  period  personified,  and 
came  to  represent  Durga  (the  consort  of  S'iva,  who  was  developed  out 
of  Agni),  who  (Durga),  as  is  well  known,  became  the  object  of  a 
bloody  sacrificial-worship  under  the  names  Kali  (the  dark,  black), 
РќаKarala,  Karalavadana,  Karalanana.-Karalamukhl.  It  is  evident  that 
a  considerable  time  was  required  for  the  sense  of  the  word  to  become 
developed  from  that  of  the  '  dark,  terrific,  tongue  of  fire '  to  that  of 
&  goddess  Kali,  Karala,  worshipped  with  bloody  sacrifices :  and  since 


430  TEXT  OF  EAMATANA  ABOUT  UMl. 

we  find  the  latter  in  the  drama  of  '  Malati-Madhava,'  by  Bhavabhuti, 
who  is  assigned  by  Wilson  to  the  eighth  century,  the  Mundaka 
TJpanishad  must  be  considerably  older;  unless,  indeed,  the  ancient 
signification  of  these  names  maintained  itself  at  a  later  period  along* 
side  of  the  popular  one.  The  worship  of  Durga,  Uma,  and  ParvatT, 
may  be  shown  in  its  beginnings,  if  not  from  this  passage,  at  all  eyents 
from  the  TJpanishads  of  the  Tajus,  see  Ind.  Stud.  i.  p.  78."  In  a 
note  "Weber  adds:  "The  third  name  (Manojava)  reminds  us  of 
Manojavas,  the  appellation  of  Tama,  the  god  of  death,  in  the  Vaj. 
8.  5,  11.  Does  it  at  a  later  period  denote  his  wife?  for  Tama  too, 
like  S'iya,  is  one  stage  of  Agni,  the  older,  certainly,  while  S'iva  is 
the  more  recent." 

In  the  passages  quoted  from  the  Bhagavata  and  Vishnu  Puranas  in 
section  tI.  (pp.  378,  386),  the  spouse  of  Mahadeva  is  said  to  have  been 
originally  the  daughter  of  Daksha,  and  to  have  become  the  daughter 
of  Himavat  only  when  she  was  born  the  second  time  after  her  voluntary 
death  at  Daksha's  sacrifice.  The  following  passage  of  the  Eamayana 
says  nothing  of  this  double  birth  and  parentage : 

Eamayana  i.  36,  13  ff.  (ed.  Schl.  =  Bombay  ed.  35,  13  fi";  Gorresio's 
ed.  37,  14  ff.). Рђћ S'azlendro  Himavan  nama  dhdtundm  akwro  mahdn  j 
tasya  kanya-dvayam  jatafh  rupenapratimam  hhuvi  \  ya  Meru-duhita 
Rama  tayor  mats,  sumadhyamd  \  ndmnd  Mend  manojnd  vai  patnl 
Himavatah  priyd  \  tasyam  Oangeyam  abhavaj jyeshthd  Himavatah  sutd  \ 
Vmd  nama  dvitlyd  'hhiit  Icanyd  tasyaiva  Rdghava  |  .  .  .  19.  Yd  chdnyd 
S'aila-duMtd  Icanyd" sid  Raghu-nandana  \  ugram  sa  vratam  dsthdya  tapas 
tepe  tapo-dhand  \  ugrena  tapasd  yuktdm  dadau  S'aila-varah  sutam  | 
Rudrdydpratirupdya  Umdm  loTca-namashriidm  \  Ity  ete  S'aild-rajasya 
iute  Rdma  lalhuvatuh  \  Gangd  cha  saritdm  ireshthd  devindm  chdpy  Umd 
vara  |  "  To  Himavat,  the  chief  of  mountains,  the  great  mine  of  metals, 
two  daughters  were  born,  in  beauty  unequalled  upon  earth.  The 
daughter  of  Meru,  Mena  by  name,  the  pleasing  and  beloved  wife  of 
Himavat,  was  their  slender-waisted  mother.  Of  her  was  born  Granga, 
the  eldest  daughter  of  Himuvat ;  and  his  second  daughter  was  called 
ITma.  .  .  .  19.  The  other  daughter  of  the  mountain,  rich  in  austere  ob- 
servances, having  undertaken  an  arduous  rite,  fulfilled  a  course  of  severe 
austerity.  This  duughler,  Uma,  distinguished  by  severe  austerity,  adored 
by  the  worlds,  the  chief  of  mountains  gave  to  the  matchless  Eudra. 


THREE  DATTGHTERS  OF  HIMAVAT  ACCORDING  TO  HARIVAlfiS'A.  431 

These,  Eaipa,  were  the  two  daughters  of  the  king  of  mountains,  Ganga, 
the  most  eminent  of  rivers,  and  TJma,  the  most  excellent  of  goddesses." 

The  Havivamsa  (vv.  940  ff.)  gives  the  following  history  of  Uma, 
which  differs  in  some  points  from  that  of  the  Eamayana,  as  it  assigns 
three  daughters  to  Himavat  and  Mena,  among  whom  the  Ganga  is  not 
included : 

Mesham  manasl  IcanyS,  Mena  ndma  mahdgireh  \  paint  Simavatah 
iresJitha  ....  943.  Tisrah  kanyds  tu  Menayam  janaydmdsa  S'aila-rdt\ 
Aparndm  Hhaparndm  cha  tritlydm  Ehapdtaldm,  \  tapak  eharantyah  m- 
mahad  duhharam  Beva-B&navaih  \  lokan  samtdpayamdsus  ids  tisra^ 
dhdm-jangamdn  \  dhdram  elca-parnena  Ehaparnd  samdcharat  \  pdtald- 
pushpam  ekafh  cha  ddadhdv  Elcapdtald  \  elcd  tatra  nirdhdrd  tdm  mdtd 
pratyashedhayat  \  "u  md  "  iti  nishedhantl  mdtri-snehena  duhhhitd  \  sd 
tathoMd  tada  mdtrd  devl  duhhara-chdrini  |  TJmety  evdlhavat  khydtd 
trishu  lokeshu  sundarl  \  tathaiva  ndmnd  teneha  visrutd  yogadha/rminl  | 
etat  tu  trihumdriharh  jagat  sthdsyati  Bhdrgava  \  tapah-sarirds  tdh  sarvds 
iisro  yoga-laldmiitdh,  \  sandi  eha  Irahma-vadinyah  sarvdi  chaivordkva- 
retasah  \  Umd  tdsdm  va/rishthd  cha  jyeshthd  cha  vara-va/rninl  \  mahdyoga- 
lalopeta  Mahddevam  upasthitd  \  Adtasyaihaparnd  tu  Bevalasya  mahdt- 
manah  |  patni  dattd  mahdhrahman  yogdchdrydya  dhlmate  \  Jaigishavydya 
tu  tathd  viddhi  tdm  Ekapdtaldm  \ 

940.  "Their  (the  Pitris')  mental  daughter  was  Mena,  the  eminent 

wife  of  the  great  mountain  Himavat 943.  The  king  of  the 

mountains  begot  three  daughters  upon  Mena Рђћ viz.  Aparua,  Ekaparna, 
and  Ekapatala.  These  three,  performing  very  great  austerity,  such  as 
could  not  be  accomplished  by  gods  or  Danavas,  distressed  [with  alarm] 
both  the  stationary  and  the  moving  worlds.  Ekaparna  ('One-leaf') 
fed  upon  one  leaf.  Ekapatala  took  only  one  patala  (Bignonia)  for  her 
food.  One  (Aparna)  took  no  sustenance,  but  her  mother,  distressed 
through  maternal  affection,  forbade  her,  dissuading  her  with  the  words 
inmd  ('0  don't').  The  beautiful  goddess,  performing  arduous  austerity, 
having  been  thus  addressed  by  her  mother  on  that  occasion,  became 
known  in  the  three  worlds  as  Uma.  In  this  manner  the  contemplative 
goddess  became  renowned  under  that  name.  But  this  world  shall 
remain  [distinguished  by]  having  these  three  maids.  All  these  three 
had  mortified  bodies,  were  distinguished  by  the  force  of  contemplation, 
and  were  all  chaste,  and  expounders  of  divine  knowledge.     Uma  was 


432  TEXT  FROM  MAHABHARATA  CONTAINING 

the  eldest  and  most  excellent  among  the  three.  Distinguished  by  the 
force  derived  from  deep  contemplation,  she  obtained  Mahadeya  [for 
her  husband].  Ekaparna  was  given  as  a  wife  to  the  great  Asita 
Devala,  the  wise  teacher  of  the  Yoga.  And  know  that  Ekapatala  was 
in  like  manner  bestowed  on  Jaigishavya." 

The  following  is  the  commencement  of  the  hymn  of  Arjuna  to  Durga 
which,  as  has  been  mentioned  in  p.  205,  he  uttered  at  the  suggestion 
of  Xrishnai^'s 

Mahabharata,  Bhishma-parv.  vv.  796  ff. Рђћ Arjunah  uvmha  \  namas  U 
Siddhasendni  arye  mandara-vasini\  Kumdri  Kali  Kapali  Kwpile  Krishna- 
pingale  \  Bhadrakali  namas  tulhyam  MahaMli  namo  'stu  te  \  Chandi 
Chande  namas  tulhyam  Tarini  Varw┬╗arnini\  Katyayani  mahahhage  Kardli 
Vijaye  Jaye  \  sikhi-piehha-dhvcya-dhare  nanalharana-hhushite  \  atta-iula- 
prahwrane  khadga-hhetaka-dharini  \  ffopendrasyamy'e  jyeshthe  Nanda- 
gopa-kulodlha/ve  \  Mahishasrik-priye  nityam  Kauiiki  pita-vasini  \  atta- 
hdse  koka-mukhe  namas  te  'stu  rana-priye  \  Time  S'dkamblmri  Svete 
Krishne  Kaitalha-ndiini  \  Hiranyakshi  Virupdkshi  Bhumrdkshi  cha 
namo  \stu  te  \  Veda-kruti  mahdpunye  hrahmanye  Jdtavedasi  \  Jamlu- 
kataka-chaityeshu  nityam  sannihitalaye  \  tvam  Irahma-vidyd  vidydndm 
mahdnidra  cha  dehindm  \  Skandha-matar  hhagavati  Burge  kdntdra- 
vdsini  |  .  .  .  .  Svdhdkdrah  Svadhd  chavoa  kald  kdshthd  Sarasvati  ( 
Savitri  Veda-mdta  cha  tathd  Veddnta  uchyate  (uchyase?)  \  stutd  'si 
tvam  Mahddevi  visuddhendntardtmand  \  Jayo  hhwvatw  me  nityam  tvat- 
prasdddd  randjire  I  kdntdra-hhaya-durgeshu  hhaktdndm  pdlaneshu  cha  \ 
nityam  vasasi  pdtdle  yuddhe  jayasi  ddnaiidn  \  tvam  Jamhhani  Mohinl 
cha  Mdyd  Hrth  S'ris  tathaiva  cha  \  Sandhyd  prahhdvatl  chaiva  Sdvitri 
Jananl  tathd  \  Tushtih  Pushtir  Bhritir  DUptik  chandrdditya-vivardhim  | 
hhiitir  hhutimatdm  sankhye  vikshyase  siddha-chdranaih  \ 

"  Eeverence  be  to  thee,  SiddhasenanI  (Generaless  of  the  Siddhas),  the 
noble,  the  dweller  on  Mandara,  Kumarl,  Kali,  Kapali,  Kapila,  Krishna- 
pingala.  Eeverence  to  thee,  Bhadrakali;  reverence  to  thee,  Mahakali; 
reverence  to  thee,  Chandi,  Chanda ;  reverence  to  thee,  0  Tarini  (de- 
liveress),  0  Varavarnini  (beautiful-coloured),  0  fortunate  Katyayani, 
0  Karali,  0  Vijaya,  0  Jaya  (victory),  who  bearest  a  peacock's  tail  for 
thy  banner,  adorned  with  various  jewels,  armed  with  many  spears,  wield- 

216  The  Bhagavadgita,  in  wbich  Krishna  himself  is  so  highly  extolled  and  glorified, 
hegina  shortly  afterwards  in  the  twenty-fifth  section  of  the  Bhishma-parvan,  tt.  830  ff. 


PART  OF  AEJUNA'S  HYMN  TO  DUEGA.  433 

ing  sword  and  shield,  younger  sister  of  the  chief  of  cowherds  (Krishna)^ 
eldest,  horn  in  the  family  of  the  cowherd  Nanda,  delighting  always 
in  Mahisha's  blood,  KausikJ,  wearing  yellow  garments,  loud-laughingj 
wolf-mouthed,  reverence  to  thee,  thou  delighter  in  battle,  0  Uma, 
S'akambhar!,  thou  white  one  [or  SVeta],  thou  black  one  [or  Krishna], 
0  destroyer  of  Kaitabha.  Reverence  to  thee,  0  Hiranyakshl,  Viru- 
pakshi,  Dhumrakshi  (golden-,  distorted-,  dark-eyed),  0  Veda^ruti 
(tradition  of  the  Veda),  most  pure,  devout,  JatavedasI  (female  Agni), 

who  dwellest  continually  near  to  ( ?)  mountain-precipices 

and  sepulchres.  Of  sciences  thou  art  the  science  of  Brahma 
(or  of  the  Veda),  the  great  sleep  of  embodied  beings,  0  mother  of 
Skanda,  divine  Durga,  dweller  in  wildernesses.  Thou  art  called 
Svaha,  Svadha,  Eala,  Kashtha  (minute  divisions  of  time),  Saras vatl,"" 
Savitrl,  mother  of  the  Veda?,  and  the  Vedanta  (or  end  of  the  Vedas). 
Thou,  great  goddess,  art  praised  with  a  pure  heart.  By  thy  favour  let 
me  be  ever  victorious  in  battle.  In  deserts,  fears,  and  difficulties,  and 
in  the  preservation  of  thy  devout  servants,  and  in  Patala,  thou  con- 
stantly abidest;  and  conquerest  the  Danavaa  in  battle.  Thou  art 
Jambhant  (destroyer  ?),  Mohini,  Maya,  Hri,  S'ri,  Sandhya,  '^  the 
luminous,  Savitrl,  the  mother,  Tushti  (contentment),  Pushti  (fatness), 
Dhriti  (constancy),  Dipti  (light),  increaser  of  the  sun  and  moon,  the 
power  of  the  powerful  in  battle, Рђћ [all  this]  thou  art  seen  by  the 
Siddhas  and  Charanas  [to  be]." 

In  another  part  of  the  Mahabharata,  (fourth  or)  Virata-parvan, 
178  ff.,  there  is  another  hymn  (already  referred  to  above,  p.  425,  note) 
addressed  by  Tudhishthira  to  Durga,  and  very  similar  to  the  preceding. 
Among  other  things,  she  is  there  said  to  "have  her  perpetual  abode 
on  the  Vindhya  mountains,  and  to  delight  in  spirituous  liquor,  flesh, 
and  sacrificial  victims  "  (  Vindhye  chaiva  naga-^reshthe  tava  sthanam  hi 
iahatam  |  Kali  Kali  Mahakali  sidhu-mamsa-pa^ii-ffriye). 

In  the  Harivamsa,  vv.'3236  ff.,  it  is  related  by  Vaiiampayana  that 
with  the  view  of  defeating  the  designs  of  Kansa  in  regard  to  the  de- 
struction of  Devakl's  offspring,  Vishnu  descended  into  Patala,  where  he 
sought  the  aid  of  Nidra  Kala-rupini  (Sleep  in  the  form  of  Time)  ;  and 

""  Compare  what  has  been  said  by  Prof.  "Weber  on  the  relation  of  Uma  and  Saras- 
vatT,  above,  p.  424,  note,  and  p.  428. 
Рёб  See  above,  p.  428. 
VOL.  IV.  28 


434         VISHNTJ  SEEKS  THE  AID  OP  NIDEA  KALAETJPINI. 

promised  her  in  return  that  through  his  favour  she  should  be  a  goddess 
adored  in  all  the  -world  (v.  3242).  He  desires  her  to  be  bom  as  the 
ninth  child  of  Ya^oda  on  the  same  night  on  which  he  was  to  be  born  as 
the  eighth  child  of  Devaki  (3247),  when  he  would  be  carried  to  Ta^oda 
and  she  to  Devaki.  He  tells  her  that  she  would  be  taken  by  the  foot, 
and  cast  out  upon  a  rock ;  but  would  then  obtain  an  eternal  place  in  the 
sky,  becoming  assimilated  to  himself  in  glory ;  would  be  installed  by 
Indra  among  the  gods  (3251  if.),  received  by  him  as  his  sister  under  the 
name  of  Kausiki,  and  would  obtain  from  him  (Indra)  a  perpetual  abode 
on  the  Vindhya  mountain,  where,  thinking  upon  him  (Yishnu),  she 
would  kill  the  two  demons  S'umbha  and  Msumbha,  and  would  be  wor- 
shipped with  animal  sacrifices  {tatraiva  tvam  hhaginy-a/rthe  grahlshyati 
sa  Vasavah  \  KuUkasya  tu  gotrena  Kauiiki  tvam  Iha/vishyasi^'"-  \  sa  te 
Vindhye  naga-sreshthe  sthdnam  dasyati  ^ahatam  \  ityadi).  Vaiiampa- 
yana  then  (vv.  3268  if.)  repeats  a  hymn  to  Arya  (Durga)  which  had 
been  "uttered  by  rishis  of  old,"  beginning  Narayamm  mamasyami 
devifh  trihhuvanesvarim  |  "I  bow  down  before  the  goddess  NarayanI, 
the  mistress  of  the  three  worlds."  She  is  here  called  by  many  of  the 
names  which  we  have  already  met  in  Arjuna's  hymn  (above,  p.  432  f.), 
such  as  S'ri,  Dhriti,  Kirti,  Hrl,  Sandhya,  Katyayani,  Kausiki,  Jaya, 
Vijaya,  Tushti,  Pushti  (3269  f.).  She  is  also  called  the  eldest  sister  of 
Yama  {j'yeshthd  Yamasya  hhagini,  v.  3271);  and  it  is  worthy  of  remark 
that  she  is  said  to  be  worshipped  by  the  [savage  tribes  of]  S'avaras, 
Yarvaras,  and  Pulindas  {S'ava/rair  Vwrlmraii  ohaiva  PulindaU  cha  stipu- 
j'itd,  V.  3274).  She  is  also  described  as  fond  of  wine  and  flesh  [surd- 
mdfhsa-priyd,  v.  3279),  the  goddess  of  wine  {swra-devi,  v.  3286),  as 
being  Sarasvati  in  Yalmiki  (comp.  pp.  424  f.,  428  f.),  and  Smriti 
(memory)  in  Dvaipayana,  i.e.  Yyasa  {Sarasvati  cha  Vdlmih  Smritir 
Dvaipdyane  tathd,  v.  3285),  and  among  sciences,  the  science  of  Brahma 
or  the  Yeda  (vidydndm  hrahma-vidya,  v.  3291),  and  as  pervading  the 
entire  world  (tvayd  vydptam  idam  sarvarh  jagat  sthdvara-jangamam, 
V.  3293). 

The  object  of  this  passage  seems  to  be  to  take  Durga  and  her  worship 
(the  extensive  prevalence  of  which  could  not  be  ignored  by  the  Yaish- 
navas)  under  the  protection  and  patronage  of  Yishnu. 

i'^'  Kau^ika  is  applied  as  an  epithet  to  Indra  in  E.V.  i.  10,  11.  See  the  first 
volume  of  this  work,  p.  347  f.,  and  the  fifth  volume,  p.  219. 


DEVIMAHATMTA  OF  THE  MAEKANJ)ETA  PUEANA.         435 

A  hymn  addressed  to  Durga  by  Pradyumna,  the  son  of  Krishna,  is 
also  to  be  found  in  Hariyamsa  vv.  9423  ff. ;  and  another  uttered  by 
Aniruddha,  son  of  Pradyumna  and  grandson  of  Krishna,  occurs  in  vv. 
10235  ff.  of  the  same  -work.  The  latter  hymn  is  repeated  by  Vaisam- 
payana  after  he  had  made  obeisance  to  the  "infinite,  imperishable, 
celestial,  eternal  primeval-god  Narayana"  {ananiam  ahhayam  divyam 
adi-devam  sandtanam  |  Narayamm  namaskritya,  10232);  and  he  talks 
of  the  goddess  as  being  "adored  by  rishis  and  gods  with  flowers  of 
eloquence"  {rishibhir  dawataU  chawa  vak-pushpavr  (wcJiit&m  Suhhdm, 
10234).  The  hymn  addresses  Durga  as  the  sister  of  Indra  and  Yishnu 
{Mdhendra-Vuhnu-bhagimm,  v.  10235),  as  Gautami,  and  by  many  of 
the  names  which  we  have  already  found  in  the  preceding  hymns,  as 
well  as  by  many  new  appellations,  and  goes  on  thus  (v.  10256  ff.): 
Brahma  Vishnui  cka  Rudrai  cha  Chandra-surydgni-'marutah  |  .  .  .  . 
kritsnani  jagad  idam  proMam  devya^  namanuMrtandt  |  "Brahma, 
Vishnu,  Eudra,  the  sun,  moon,  and  wind  .  .  .  .  aU  this  world  is 
pronounced  by  uttering  the  name  of  this  goddess." 

The  worship  of  this  goddess  reaches  its  climax  in  such  works'  as 
the  Bevi-mahatmya  in  the  Markandeya  Purana,  sections  81  ff.  j 
where  it  is  remarkable  that  she  is  connected  with  Vishnu,  and  not 
with  her  proper  consort,  Mahadeva.  She  is  there  called  Mahamaya 
(the  great  Illusion),  Yoganidra  (the  Sleep  of  meditation),  etc.  It 
is  there  said  of  her  (v.  47  ff.)  :  Nityaiva  sd  jagan-murtir  toy  a  sarvam 
idam  tatam  \  taihdpi  tat-samwtpattir  bahudlid  kruyatdm  mama  \  devdndm 
harya-siddhy-artham  dvirhha/oaU  sd  yadd  \  utpanneti  tadd  lake  sd  nityd 
'py  alUdhiyate  \  "She  is  the  eternal  form  (or  substance)  of  the  world; 
by  her  all  this  [universe]  is  stretched  out;  and  yet  hear  from  me  her 
manifold  birth.  "Whenever  she  is  manifested  to  effect  the  purposes 
of  the  gods,  she,  though  eternal,  is  said  in  the  world  to  be  bom." 
The  narrative  then  proceeds,  that  when  Vishnu  was  sunk  in  this 
sleep  of  contemplation  {Yoganidra)  at  the  end  of  the  Kalpa,  two 
demons,  Madhu  and  Kaitabha,  sprang  from  his  ear  and  were  about 
to  kill  Brahma ;  when  the  latter,  seeing  Vishnu  asleep,  with  the  view 
of  arousing  him,  began  to  celebrate  the  praises  of  Toganidra,  "his 
divine  sleep  who  was  abiding  in  his  eyes,  the  mistress  of  the  universe, 
the  support  of  the  world,  the  cause  of  its  continuance  and  destruction" 
{ffari-netra-lcritdlaydm  \  visveSvarim  jagaddhdtrlm  sthiti-samhdra-kdri- 


436       PART  OF  HYMN  FEOM  THE  MARKANDEYA  PUEANA. 

nim  I  nidrdm  Ihagavatirh  Vishnoh).  Some  of  the  functions  assigned 
to  her  are  as  follows  (v.  56) :  Tvayaiva  dharyate  satvam  i/vaya/itat 
irijyate  jagat  \  tvayaitat  paJyate  devi  tvam  atsy  ante  eha  sarvada  \ 
"By  thee  the  universe  is  upheld;  by  thee  the  world  is  created,  by 
thee  it  is  preserved ;  and  thou  always  devourest  it  at  the  end." 
Again,  it  is  said  of  her  (v.  63  ff.) :  Yachoha  hinehit  hoachid  vastu  tad 
asad  vd  'khilatmah  |  tasya  sarvasya  yd,  Saktih  sd  tvam  hiffi  stuyase  tadd  \ 
yayd  tvayd  j'agat-srmhtd  jagat-pdtd  'tti  yo  jagat  \  so  'pi  nidrd-vaiam 
nitah  leas  tvdm  stotum  iheivwrah  \  Vishnuh  ^arlra-grahanam  aham  Sana 
eva  eha  \  kdritds  te  yato  'tas  tvdm  Tcah  stotum  ialctimdn  hhavet  |  "  Thou 
art  the  power  (Sakti)  of  whatever  substance,  existent  or  non-existent, 
anywhere  is,  0  thou  soul  of  aU  things :  why  art  thou,  then,  lauded 
[by  us  who  are  unequal  to  the  task]  ?  Who  is  able  to  magnify  thee 
by  whom  the  Creator  of  the  world,  the  Preserver  of  the  world,  and  the 
Devourer  of  the  world,  have  been  subjected  to  sleep  ?  Since  thou  hast 
caused  Vishnu,  and  me  (Brahma),  and  I^ana  (S'iva)  to  become  incor- 
porate, who  has  the  power  to  praise  thee?" 

The  following  is  the  beginning  of  a  hymn  addressed  to  her  after  her 
destruction  of  the  demon  Mahisha  : 

Mark.  Pur.  sect.  84,  1  ff. Рђћ S'ahrddayah  sura-gandh  nihate  'tivirye 
tasmin  duratmani  surdrihale  eha  devyd  \  tdm  tushUwuh  pranati-namra- 
sirodhardmsah  vdghhih  praharsha-pulakodgama-chdru-dehdh  \  devyd  yayd 
tatam  idarhjagad  dtma-iahtyd  niMesha-deva-gana-&ahti-samuha-murtyd  \ 
tdm  Ambikdm  ahhila-deva-maharshi-pujydm  hhaktyd  natdh  sma  vida- 
dhdtu  sulhdni  sd  nah  \  yasydh  prdbhdvam  atulam  hhagavdn  Ananto 
Brahma  Sa/rai  eha  na  hi  vaktum  alam  balaneha  |  sd  Chandikd  'khila- 
jagat-paripdlandya  ndidya  ehdiuhha-lhayasya  matim  karotu  |  ""When 
the  goddess  had  slain  this  very  powerful  and  malignant  [demon]  and 
the  host  of  the  enemies  of  the  gods, Рђћ the  deities,  headed  by  Indra, 
with  their  necks  and  shoulders  bowed  down  in  obeisance,  and  their 
bodies  beautified  by  horripilation,  delighted,  lauded  her  with  [these] 
words:  'We  bow  down  with  devotion  before  that  goddess  Ambika,  who 
stretched  out  this  world  by  her  own  power,  in  whom  are  impersonated 
the  various  energies  {^akti)  of  all  the  gods,  who  is  to  be  adored  by  all 
the  deities  and  rishis  :  may  she  confer  upon  us  blessings.  May  Chan- 
dika,  whose  unequalled  majesty  and  might  neither  the  divine  Ananta 
(Vishnu),  nor  Brahma,  nor  Hara  (S'iva)  is  competent  to  express,  de- 


HIGHER  RANK  ATTAINED  BY  DUSGA.  437 

termine  upon  the  preservation  of  the  world,  and  the  destruction  of  the 
fear  of  evil." 

These  specimens  may  sufllce  to  show  the  dignity  to  which  this  goddess 
has  eventually  been  elevated  in  the  estimation  of  her  worshippers ;  and 
a  comparison  of  the  characteristics  which  are  here  assigned  to  her  with 
the  descriptions  quoted  ahove  from  the  Kamayana,  Mahabharata,  etc. 
(pp.  364,  373  ff.,  430  f.),  wUl  show  that  she  has  now  attained  a 
higher  rank  in  the  Indian  pantheon  than  was  originally  enjoyed  by 
the  daughter  of  Daksha  and  Himavat. 


439 


APPEIiTDIX. 


NOTE   K.РђћPage  33,  line  19. 

In  the  XJttarakanda,  too,  of  tte  Eamayana  (iv.  9,  Bombay  ed.),  it  is 
said :  Prajapatih  pwra  srisMva  apah  mlila-sambhavah  \  tasarh  gopayane 
sattvdn  asry'at  padma-samhhavah  \  "  The  lotus-bom  Prajapati,  sprung 
from  the  waters  (or  the  source  of  the  waters),  having  formerly  created 
the  waters,  created  beings  to  protect  them ; "  who,  from  agreeing  to 
undertake  this  function,  were  called  Eakshasas  (from  the  root  raJesh, 
"to  protect"). 

On  this  verse  the  commentator  remarks:  "Apah  srishtvd"  hhumer 
adho-hhaga-vartinlr  apah  srishtva  ity  arthah  |  tatra  " salila-sambhavah" 
Prajapatir  abhud  ity  anvayah  \  ....  " 'Having  created  the  waters:* 
the  sense  is  having  created  the  waters  existing  beneath  the  earth.  In 
them  the  water-born  Prajapati  arose :  such  is  the  connexion."  .... 
He  then  quotes  Manu  i.  8  (see  p.  30,  above),  and  two  other  texts  from 
the  Veda.     See  above,  p.  24,  note. 


NOTE  B.РђћPage  65,  line  25. 

In  the  description  of  the  regions  to  which  the  monkeys  were  sent  to 
search  for  Sita  after  she  had  been  carried  off  by  Eavana,  which  is  given 
in  the  Kishkindha  Kanda  or  fourth  book  of  the  Eamayana,  the  follow- 
ing reference  occurs  to  the  three  steps  of  Vishnu ;  and  it  is  of  such  a 
character  as  to  preserve  some  trace  of  Aurnabhava's  interpretation  of 
those  steps : 

Sect.  40,  vv.  54a  ff.  (Bombay  ed.)' Рђћ Tatah  param  hemamayah  irlmdn 
Udaya-parvatah  \  tasya  Jcofir  divam  sprishtvd  iata-yojanam  ayata  \  jata- 

'  Gorreeio,  iv.  40,  59  ff.,  has  several  various  readings  in  this  passage.  I  have 
noted  those  which  occur  in  the  most  important  verses. 


440  APPENDIX. 

rvjpamayi  divya  virajati  sa-vedika  |  .  .  .  .  57.  Taira  yojana-vistaram 
uohihritam  dasa-yojanam  \  sringam  Saumanasam  ndma  jdtarupamayam 
dhruvam  \  58.  Tatra  purva-padam  kritva  pur  a  Vishnus  trivihrame 
{trivikramah,  Gorr.)  |  dvitiyam  silehare  Meros  ehahara  purushottamah  \ 
59.  Uttarem  parilcramya  Jamludvipam  divakarah  \  drisyo  bhavati  Ihu- 
yuhtham  Uhharam  tad  mahochhrayam  {drisyo  bhavati  bhutdndm  iikharam 
tarn  updsritah,  Gorr.)  |  54.  "  Beyond  that  is  the  glorious,  golden, 
Udaya  parvata  [mountain  over  which  the  sun  rises] ;  the  divine  and 
golden  peak  of  which  shines,  touching  the  sky,  a  hundred  yojanas 

long,  and  supported  by  a  basement 57.    There  stands  the 

firm,  golden  Saumanasa  peak,  a  yojana  broad  and  ten  yojanas  high. 
When  Vishnu,  the  chief  of  spirits,  formerly  strode  three  paces,  he 
planted  his  first  step  there,  and  his  second  on  the  summit  of  Meru. 
When  the  sun  has  circled  round  Jambudvipa  by  the  north  [or,  with  his 
last  (step)],  he  is  mostly  visible  on  that  lofty  peak;"  (or,  'he  is  visible 
to  living  beings,  resting  upon  that  peak,'  Gorr.). 

The  commentator  remarks  on  vv.  57  and  58 :  Tatra  Ma-yojana-dirghe 
Udaya-giri-sikhare  \  58.  Tatra  Saumanase  fringe  trmikrame  tribhih 
padaia  trilokydh  dkramam-prastdiie  prathamam  padam  tatra  kritva  dviti- 
yam padam  Meroh  sikhmre  chakdra  \  On  v.  59  :  Astdnantaram  uttarem 
Jambu-dvipam  parikramya  tan  mahochhrayam  Ukha/ram  Saumanasd- 
khyam  prdpya  sthito  divdka/ro  Jambu-dvipa-va/rtindm  hhuyishtham 
drishto  bhavati  Saumanasa-Ukhare  ity  a/rthah  \  idam  satya-yugdlhiprd- 
yarh  tretdydm  kshira-sdgara-madhya-gasya  dodpare  suroda-madhya-gasya 
kalau  Lankd-madhya-gasya  Jambudvipa-stha-manushya-dri^yatdydh  anya- 
troktatvdt  I  "'There,'  on  this  summit  of  the  Udaya-giri,  a  hundred 
yojanas  long.  58.  'There,'  on  that  peak  Saumanasa,  in  his  triple 
stride,  on  the  occasion  of  his  traversing  the  three  worlds  with  three 
steps,  [Vishnu]  placed  his  first  step,  and  his  second  on  the  summit  of 
Meru."  On  v.  59  he  observes:  "After  sunset,  when  the  sun  has 
circled  round  Jambudvipa  by  the  north  [or,  with  his  last  (step)],  he 
is  mostly  seen  by  the  inhabitants  of  that  dvipa  standing  on  the  lofty 
summit  called  Saumanasa.  This  refers  to  the  Satya  yuga.  For  it  is 
said  in  other  books  that  in  the  Treta  age  the  sun  is  beheld  by  the 
men  of  Jambudvipa  to  go  through  the  ocean  of  milk,  in  the  Dvapara 
through  the  ocean  of  wine,  and  in  the  Kali  through  Lanka." 

The  three  steps  of  Vishnu  are  mentioned  in  other  parts  of  the  Eama- 


APPENDIX.  441 

yana.  Thus  in  book  vi.  39,  21  (Bombay  ed.),  it  is  said:  Fraaadaiicha 
vimdnaii  oka  Lanka  parama-hhushitd  \  ghanair  ivatapapaye  madhyamam 
Vaiskmvam.  padam  \  "Lanka  was  beautifully  adorned  with  temples 
and  palaces,  as  the  middle  step  (or  position)  of  Vishnu,  with  clouds,  at 
the  departure  of  the  hot  season  [and  commencement  of  the  rains]." 
The  commentator  explains  the  middle  position  of  Vishnu  by  akdsa. 
This  passage  appears  to  refer  to  the  zenith. 


NOTE   G.~Page  134,  line  34. 

It  will  be  observed  that  in  the  text  of  the  Bombay  edition  the  two 
parts  of  the  story,  viz.  (1)  the  request  of  the  gods  to  Vishnu  that  he 
would  assume  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  and  (2)  the  petition  of  Kasyapa 
to  the  same  deity  that  he  would  become  the  son  of  himself  and  Aditi, 
are  more  closely  connected  than  they  are  in  Schlegel's  edition  by  the 
insertion  of  the  words,  "Bestow  the  boon  which  Aditi,  the  gods, 
and  I  solicit,"  which  are  wanting  in  Schlegel's  text.  Further,  in 
the  Bombay  edition  Kasyapa  is  made  to  allude  to  "the  hermitage 
where  the  work  was  accomplished,"  as  if  he  was  himself  present 
there,  of  which  nothing  is  said  in  Schlegel's  edition.  And  again,  as 
already  noticed  in  note  129,  p.  130,  by  the  omission  of  the  words 
"thus  addressed  by  the  deities,"  which  opcur  at  the  beginning  of 
verse  17  of  Schlegel's  text,  the  Bombay  edition  harmonizes  the  two 
parts  of  the  story,  and  removes  the  appearance  of  interpolation  which 
Schlegel's  text  exhibits. 


NOTE   D.РђћFage  175,  line  33. 

In  this  note  I  shall  adduce  some  further  evidence  tending  to  confirm 
the  supposition  that  Eama  may  not  have  been  originally  represented  in 
the  Eamayana  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu. 

In  the  summaries  of  the  poem,  contained  in  sections  1  and  3  ^  of 

'  It  is  worthy  of  remark,  that  in  the  third  section  the  poet  is  said  to  have  "  seen  " 
all  that  he  narrates  In  the  poem;  just  as  the  Vedio  rishis  are  said  to  have  "seen" 
their  hymns  (see  Nimkta  ii.  11 :  Rishir  darianat  |  stoman  dadarsa  ity  Awpaman- 
yavah  \  " '  Rishi  comes  from  seeing :  he  is  one  who  saw  the  hymns,'  so  says  Aupa- 
manyava."  See  the  second  volume  of  this  wort,  pp.  195  and  196 ;  also  the  third 
vol.,  p.  85).    Bamayana  i.  3,  3  :  Bama-Lahahmma-S'itabhili  rajna  I)aiarathena  cha | 


442  APPENDIX. 

the  First  Book,  as  given  in  the  Bombay  edition  and  in  Schlegel's,  no 
allusion  is  made  to  the  divine  origin  of  Eama ;  and  the  same  is  the 
case  in  the  first  and  third  sections  in  Gorresio's  edition  also.  In  the 
fourth  section,  however,  of  the  last-named  recension  (which  the  others 
do  not  contain),  the  plan  pursued  by  the  gods  for  the  destruction  of 
Eavana,  and  the  divine  jluid  through  which  the  sons  of  Da^aratha 
were  produced,  are  distinctly  referred  to  (vv.  14,  15:  Rammsya  hadho- 
paye  mantranam  samudahritam  |  15.  Svargdvataramm  ehawa  swanam 
samudahritam  |  divya  cha  payasotpattih  putra-janma  nripasya  cha).  In 
the  first  of  the  two  summaries  in  Eamayana  i.  1,  13  and  18  (Bombay 
ed.),  Eama  is  described  as  "glorious  like  Prajapati"  {Prajapati-samah 
iriman,  v.  13),  and  as  "resembling  Vishnu  in  vigour,  and  pleasant  to 
behold,  like  the  Moon"  (  Vishmna  sadriio  vlrye  soma-vat  priyadarSanah, 
V.  18).  The  first  of  the  epithets  in  the  last  line  would  imply  that 
he  was  not  Vishnu.  Otherwise,  what  necessity  for  the  comparison  ? 
The  commentator  remarks  thus  on  the  expression  in  v.  18:  Yadyapi 
Mdmo  Fishnur  eva  sarva-rupai  cha  tathapi  manushopadhi-lhedat  sa/rvatra 
sddriiyam,  drashtavyam  \  yadva  Fishnund  sadrUah  ity  anamvayalankdrah  j 
"Although  Eama  was  no  other  than  Vishnu,  still,  from  the  seeming 
distinctness  of  his  humanity,  resemblances  may  be  regarded  as  existing 
in  all  points  [between  the  one  and  the  other].  Or,  the  comparison 
may  be  regarded  as  coming  within  the  class  of  improper  similes  {ananva- 
ydlanhdra)."  See  Professor  Goldstiicker's  Dictionary  under  this  word. 
In  regard  to  the  other  epithet,  "  glorious  like  Prajapati,"  v.  13,  the 
commentator  similarly  observes:  Yadyapi  Edmo  Brahma  eva  tathapi 
marmsha-dha/rmdndm  idka-mohadlndm  mdyikdndm  tatra  da/rkanena  aupd- 
dhika-hhedam  dddya  tat-samatvohtih  [  Bhdrgava-loTca-pratihandha-rupdj 


sabharyena  sarashtrena  yat  praptam  tatra  tattvatah  |  4.  Hasitam  bhashitam  chaim 
gdtir  yavaoh  cha  oTiesMitam  \  tat  sarvam  dharma-vTryena  yathSvat  samprapaiyati  \ 

5.  Stri-tritiyena  cha  tatha  yat  praptam  charata  vane  \  satyasandhena  Mamena  tat 
sarvam  chanvavailcaliata  \  6.  Tatah  pasyati  dharmatma  tat  sarvam  yogam  asthitah  | 
pura  yat  tatra  nirvrittam  panav  amalaham  yatha  |  7.  Tat  sarvam  tattvato  drishtva 
ityadi  \  3.  "  Whatever  actually  occurred  to  Eama,  Lakshmana  and  STta,  to  king 
Datoatha  -witli  his  wives  and  dominione,  (4)  their  laughing,  their  talking,  their 
fates  and  their  endeavours Рђћ all  that  he  sees  exactly  by  the  power  of  righteousness. 

6.  He  also  beheld  all  that  happened  to  the  truthful  Eama  while  travelling  in  the 
forest  with  his  wife  as  the  third.  6.  Then  the  righteous  (bard),  falling  into  a  state 
of  contemplation  (yoga),  sees  all  that  had  formerly  happened,  like  an  "  amalaka " 
fruit  in  his  hand.     7.  Seeing  all  this  exactly,"  etc. 


APPENDIX.  443 

Jatayti-molcsha-praddna-rupat  wena  saha  sarvdyodhyd-vasi-janasya  sa- 
^arirasya  Brahma-loha-naycma-rupdch  eha  kdrandt  tat-samatvam  \ 
sarvathd  svatantrasya  em  Idrihshu  yogyatvdt  \  "Although  Kama 
was  no  other  than  Brahma,  still,  owing  to  the  circumstance  that  grief, 
delusion,  and  other  illusory  human  attributes,  were  seen  in  him, Рђћ in 
reference  to  this  apparent  distinctness, Рђћ a  resembla,nce  is  predicated. 
From  the  fact  that  he  deprived  Bhargava  (Para^urama,  see  above, 
p.  177)  of  his  celestial  abode,  that  he  conferred  final  emancipation  on 
Jatayu  (Ramayama,  Bombay  ed.,  iii.  68,  37),  and  that  he  took  with  him 
to  Brahma's  paradise  the  whole  of  the  inhabitants  of  Ayodhya  in  an 
embodied  state,  there  is  a  Рђбsimilarity  (between  Eama  and  Prajapati) ; 
since  only  a  being  who  was  in  all  respects  independent  of  others  could 
be  capable  of  such  acts."  As  instances  of  Rama's  "  illusory  human 
attributes,"  I  may  mention  his  ignorance  of  Sita's  locality  when  she 
had  been  carried  off  by  Ravana  (Ar.  Kanda  58,  1  ff.,  Bombay  ed.= 
Gorr.  sect.  65),  and  the  consequent  search  instituted  for  her  discovery 
(Kishkindha  K.  40,  11  ff.,  Bombay  ed.=G;orr.  ed.  40,  9  ff.),  and  his 
doubt  regarding  her  purity  after  she  had  been  rescued  from  the 
Eakshasa's  palace  (Bala  Kanda  1,  81  ff.,  Bombay  ed.).  There  are 
some  phrases  in  the  summary  of  the  poem,  in  the  first  chapter  of  the 
first  book,  which  are  of  a  hyperbolical  character,  and  do  not  neces- 
sarily point  to  a  divine  character  in  Eama.  Thus,  in  verse  4  the  hero 
about  whom  inquiry  is  made  is  described  as  one  of  whom  the  gods 
are  afraid  (Jcasya  hihhyati  devds  cha).  In  v.  84  Eama  is  said  to  have 
been  honoured,  or  worshipped,  by  all  the  gods  {pufitah  sarva-devataih); 
while  on  the  other  hand  he  is  said,  v.  86,  to  have  received  a  boon 
from  the  gods  (devatdbhyo  varam  prdpya).  In  verse  32  Eama  and 
his  party,  while  living  at  Chitrakuta,  are  compared  to  gods  and 
gandharvas  {deva-gandharva-sankdiaK).  In  section  2,  verse  32,  the 
epithets  dharmdtmano  hhagavatah,  and  dhimatah,  "righteous,"  "divine 
or  venerable"  (an  epithet  constantly  applied  to  Krishna,  as  well  as 
to  Buddha),  and  "wise,"  are  assigned  to  Rama.  "Bhagavat"  need 
not  necessarily  mean  "divine." 

In  the  text,  pp.  170  ff.  (see  also  pp.  165  ff.),  following  Lassen,  I 
have  pointed  out  that  the  second  sacrifice  described  in  the  fourteenth 
section  in  Schlegel's  edition  has  some  appearance  of  not  having  formed 
a  portion  of  the  original  poem.     It  will  also  be  seen  from  note  164 


444 


APPENDIX. 


in  p.  165,  as  compared  with  the  quotation  given  in  the  text  in 
the  same  and  the  following  pages,  that  the  Bombay  edition,  which 
frequently  differs  in  its  readings  from  Schlegel's,  omits  w.  5-11  of 
the  section  in  question  (the  fourteenth),  as  given  in  the  latter,  and 
passes  at  once  from  the  fourth  to  the  twelfth  verse.  In  the  account 
which  follows  of  the  request  preferred  by  the  gods  to  Vishnu  to  be- 
come incarnate  in  the  sons  of  Dasaratha,  etc.,  the  two  editions  differ 
in  their  arrangement  of  details,  but  not  in  the  substance.  In  the 
Bombay  edition  the  words  pitwram  rochayamasa  tada  Daiaratham 
nripam  ("he  accepted  as  his  father  the  king  Dasaratha"),  which  occur 
in  section  15,  32,  are  repeated  in  section  16,  8. 

In  the  text,  pp.  174  f.,  I  have  given  the  account  of  the  birth  of 
Da^aratha's  sons  according  to  Schlegel's  edition.  I  now  subjoin  the 
description  of  the  same  event  as  found  in  the  Bombay  edition  and  in 
Gorresio's : 

[Bombay  ed.,  sect.  18,  w.  8  ff.] 

8.  Tato  yajne  samapte  tu  ritu- 
narh  shat  samatyayuh  \  tatai  cha 
dvadaie  mase  ohaitre  navamihe  ti- 
thau  I  9.  Nahshatre  ' diti-dawatye 
svocheha-samstheshupanchasu  I  grah- 
eshu  karkafe  lagne  Vakpatav  Indund 
saha  I  10.  Prodyamane  jaganna- 
tham  sarva-Ioia-namasiritam\  Kau- 
idlya  ^janayad  Rdmam  divya-laksh- 
ana-smnyutam\  11.  Vuhnor ardham 
mahaihdgam  putram  Aikshvdku- 
nandanam\loMtaktham  mahdidhum 
raktoshtham  dundulM-svanam  |  12. 
Kau^alya  iusubhe  tena  putrend- 
mita-tejasd  \  yathd  varem  devdndm 
Aditir  Vajrapdnind  |  13.  Bharaio 
ndma  Kaikeyydmjajne  satya-pard- 
kramah\  sdkshdd  Viahnoi  chaiurhhd- 
gah  sarvaih  samudito  gumih  \  14. 
Atha  Zakshmam-S'atrughnau  Su- 
mitrd  ^janayat  sutau  |  vlrau  sarvd- 


[Gorr.  ed.,  sect.  19,  w.  10  ff.J 
10.  Tdmm prajajnire putra^  ehat- 
vdro  'mita-tejasah  \  Sdma-ZaksJi- 
mana  -  S'atrughna  -  Bharatah  deva- 
rupinah  \  11.  Janma  -  tej'o  -  gma- 
jyeshtham  putram  apraiimaujasam\ 
KauMyd  ^janayad  Rdmam  Vishnw- 
tulya-pardkramam\  12.  (almost  the 
same  as  v.  12  of  the  Bomb,  ed.)  13. 
Bhavdya  sa  M  lokdndm  Rdvanasya 
hadhdya  cha  \  Vishnor  mrydrdhato 
jctjne  Rdmo  rdjlva-loehanah  \  14. 
Tejo  -  mryddhikah  iurah  Srimdn 
guna-gandkarah  1  lahhuvdnavarai 
chaiva  S'akrdd  Vishnoi  cha  pan- 
rushe\  15.  Tathd  Lakshmana-S'a- 
trughnau  Sumitrd  'janayat  sutau  \ 
dridha-bhaktl  mahotsdhau  Rama- 
sydva/rajau  gunaih  \  16.  Tdv  apy 
dstdm  ohatur-bhdgau  Vishnoh  sam- 
pinditdv  uhhaw  |  ekah  eka-chatw- 
bhdgdd  aparasmdd  ajdyata  \    17. 


APPENDIX. 


445 


stra-lcuialau  Vishnor  ardha-saman- 
vitau  I  15.  Pushye  jatas  tu  Bharato 
minalagne  prasanna-dMh  \  Sarpe 
jatmi  tu  Saumitrl  hulire  'hhyudite 
rmau  \  16.  Rajnah  putrah  mahdt- 
mdnai  chatvaro  jajnire  prithak  \ 
gunavanto  'nurupdhha  ruohya  pro- 
ghfhapadopamah  | 


[Bombay  edition.] 
8.  "After  the  sacrifice  had 
been  completed,  the  six  seasons 
passed;  and  then  in  the  twelfth 
month,  in  Chaitra,  on  the  ninth 
lunar  day,  (9)  in  the  lunar  mansion 
of  which  Aditi  is  the  deity,  when 
five  planets  were  culminating, 
when  Jupiter  was  rising  with  the 
moon  in  the  sign  of  Cancer, Рђћ (10) 
Kau^alya  brought  forth  Eama, 
the  lord  of  the  world,  adored  by 
all  worlds,  possessed  of  celestial 
marks,  (11)  a  son  of  high  destinies, 
the  half  of  Vishnu,  and  gladdener  of 
the  raceof  Ikshvaku,  with  red  eyes, 
great-armed,  with  red  lips,  and  with 
a  voice  like  a  kettle-drum.  12. 
Kau^alya  received  lustre  from  this 
son  of  unbounded  might,  as  Aditi 
did  from  the  chief  of  the  gods  who 
wields  the  thunderbolt.  1 3 .  [A  son] 
called  Bharata,  of  real  valour,  pos- 
sessed of  all  virtues,  was  born  of 
Kaikeyt,  who  was  manifestly  the 

'  This  verse,  thongh  not  in  the  Bombay  edition,  is  to  be  found  in  Scblegel'a  as 
the  fifth. 


Bharato  ndma  Kaileeyyah  putrah 
mtya-pardkramah  \  dharmdtmd  cha 
mahdlmd  cha  pralchydta-lala-vihra- 
mah  I  ...  19.  (Sa  chaturhhir  mahd- 
Ihdgaih  putrair  Ba^aratho  vritah  I 
hahhuva  parama-prlto  devazr  iva 
Pitdmahah  \  20.  Teshdm  Jeetw  iva 
sreshfho  Ramo  lolca-hite  ratah  \ 
Svayambhur  iva  devdndm  sarveshdm 
sama-darhnah  | 

[Grorresio'a  edition.] 

After  naming  Dai^aratha's  wives, 
the  narrative  proceeds : 

10.  "  To  them  were  born  four 
sons,  of  boundless  might,  Eama, 
Lakshmana,  S'atrughna,  and  Bha- 
rata, in  fashion  like  the  gods.  11. 
Kau^alya  brought  forth  Eama,  a 
son  of  unparalleled  vigour,  the  first 
in  birth,  might,  and  qualities, 
equal  in  valour  to  Vishnu.  12. 
(=v.  12.  of  the  Bomb,  ed.)  13. 
For  this  lotus-eyed  Eama  was  born 
fromthehalf  of  Vishnu's  generative 
power,  for  the  good  of  the  worlds, 
and  the  destruction  of  Eavana.' 
14.  This  glorious  hero,  a  mine  of 
virtues,  excelled  in  fire  and  energy, 
and  in  manly  vigour  was  not  in- 
ferior to  Indra  and  Vishnu.  16. 
So  too  Sumitra  bore  two  sons, 
Lakshmana  and  S'atrughna,  firm  in 
devotion,  of  great  energy,  second 
to  Eama  in  virtues.  16.  These 
two    also,    combined,    were    two 


446  APPENMX. 

fourtli  partof Vishnu.  14.  Then  Su-  fourth  parts  [i.e.  were,  together, 
mitra  bore  two  sons,  Lakshmana  the  fourth  part]  of  Vishnu, 
and  S'atrughna,  heroes,  skilled  in  all  Prom  the  other  fourth  part 
weapons,  who  had  [each]  the  half  there  was  bom  (17)  to  Kaikeyi, 
[of  the  fourth]  of  Vishnu.*  15.  one  son  named  Bharata,  of  real 
But  Bharata,  of  tranquil  mind,  valour,  righteous,  high-souled,  re- 
was  born  under  the  lunar  mansion  nowned  for  power,  and  energy. 
Pushya  and  the  sign  of  Pisces ;  ....  19.  Da^aratha,  surrounded 
while  the  sons  of  Sumitra  were  by  his  four  sons  of  high  destinies, 
born  under  Sarpa  (or  the  ninth  was  highly  pleased,  like  Pitamaha, 
lunar  mansion),  when  the  sun  had  attended  by  the  gods.  20.  Eama, 
risen  in  Cancer.  16.  The  four  great  devoted  to  the  good  of  the  worlds, 
sons  of  the  king  were  separately  was,  like  a  banner,  the  most 
born,  possessing  great  qualities,  eminent  among  them,  like  Sva- 
resembling  one  another,  and  in  yambhu  among  the  gods,  and  im- 
brilliancy  like  the  constellation  partial  to  all." 
Proshthapada." 

The  Bombay  edition  has  not  the  verse  which  is  found  as  the  fifth 
in  Schlegel's  edition,  and  the  thirteenth  in  Gorresio's,  but  it,  equally 
with  the  others,  asserts  in  its  eleventh  verse  (which  is  not  in  Schlegel's 
edition)  that  the  half  of  Vishnu  was  incarnate  in  Eama.  The  same 
remark  which  in  p.  175  I  have  made  on  the  passage  as  given  in  Schlegel's 
edition,  applies  to  this  recension  also Рђћ viz.  that  the  verses  which  refer 
to  Dasaratha's  sons  being  incarnations  of  Vishnu  might  be  omitted  with 
little  injury  to  the  connexion.  The  account  of  Bharata,  Lakshmana, 
and  S'atrughna,  given  in  vv.  13-15  (as  they  now  stand),  has  a  certain 
awkwardness,  inasmuch  as  after  leaving  Bharata,  and  introducing 
(v.  14)  Lakshmana  and  S'atrughna,  the  narrator  recurs  (v.  15)  to 
Bharata,  to  give  further  particulars  of  his  birth,  and  then  goes  back 
again  to  the  other  brothers.  If,  however,  vv.  13  and  14  have  been 
interpolated,  it  is  possible  that  some  other  lines,  which  seem  necessary 
to  complete  v.  15,  and  to  teU  the  name  of  Bharata's  mother,  and  the 
names  of  Sumitra's  sons  (which  that  verse  does  not  contain),  may  at 
the  same  time  have  been  left  out.  In  Gorresio's  text  of  this  passage, 
the  verses  describing  the  astrological  influences  under  which  Dasaratha's 

'  Which  had  been  commuiucated  to  their  mother.     See  Boot.  15,  21,  Schlegel. 


APPENDIX.  447 

sons  were  bom,  are  left  out ;  though  these  are  not  unlikely  to  have 
formed  part  of  the  original  text  of  the  poem.┬░  The  twelfth  verse  of 
this  (as  well  as  the  corresponding  verses  of  the  other  two  recensions), 
where  Eama  is  compared  to  Indra,'  and  also  the  fourteenth  verse 
(Gorr.),  ia  which  he  is  said  to  he  not  inferior  to  Indra  and  Vishnu 
[these  two  verses,  I  say,  if  original  portions  of  the  poem,  as  is  not 
unlikely],  sound  somewhat  strangely  as  part  of  a  work  in  which  the 
incarnation  of  Eama  was  originally  contemplated,  as  it  would  not 
exalt  the  reader's  conception  of  the  dignity  of  the  hero  (supposed  to 
be  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu)  to  compare  his  might  to  that  of  Indra, 
an  inferior  god.  On  this  subject  Gorresio  remarks,  in  note  90,  p.  423  f. 
of  his  sixth  volume,  as  follows :  "  This  is  one  of  the  passages  in  the 
poem  from  which  it  might  be  inferred  that  the  avatara  of  Vishnu  in 
Eama  was  an  interpolation  in  the  epopee.  If  Eama  was  a  corporeal 
manifestation  of  Vishnu,  and  consequently  Vishnu  himself  in  a  human 
form,  the  epithet  'not  inferior  to  Vishnu,'  which  is  here  assigned  to 
him,  has  neither  appropriateness  nor  sense.  It  would  be  as  if  it  were 
said  to  any  one  that  he  was  not  inferior  to  himself.  But  we  shall  not 
anticipate  the  judgment  of  a  question  which  has  need  to  be  maturely 
considered." 

Again,  it  is  related  in  the  Aranya  E.,  or  Third  Book,  30,  20  ff.  of 
Gorresio's  edition,  that  when  the  Eakshasas  were  about  to  attack  Eama, 
the  gods  and  other  beings  became  very  anxious  about  his  safety :  Tato 
devarshi-gandharvah  siddhdS  cha  saha  charamih  |  uchuhparama-santrastaft 
guhyakai  eha parasparam  \  chatur-dasa  sahasrani  rakshasdm  hhima-ha/rma- 
ndm  I  ehai  cha  Ramo  dharmatma  Icatham  yuddham  Ihmishyati  \  Itdmo  no 
vidito  yo  ^yarh  yatha  cha  vasudham  gatah  \  manushyatvarh  tu  maivd  'sya 
hdrunyad  vyathitam  manah  \  nardantwa  chamm  teshdm  rakshasdm  kdma- 
rupindm  \  ndnd-vikrita-vesdndm  Jtamdsramam  updgamat  \  "  Then  the 
gods,  rishis,  Gandharvas,  Siddhas,  Charanas,  and  Guhyakas,  being 
greatly  terrified,  spoke  thus  among  themselves :  '  There  are  fourteen 
thousands  of  Eakshasas,  terrible  in  their  deeds,  and  the  righteous 
Eama  is  but  one:  how  shall  they  fight  together?    "We  know  who 

"  Signer  Gorresio,  on  the  other  hand,  thinks  they  are  superfluous  (Preface,  vol.  i., 
p.  lii.)r 

"  In  the  Aranya  Kanda  68,  38  (Bombay  ed.),  Eama  and  Lakshmana  are  compared 
to  the  chiefs  of  the  gods,  Vishnu  and  Vasaya  (Indi-a,  surendrav  iva  Vishnu-vasavau) 
The  commentator  makes  no  remark  on  this. 


448  APPENDIX. 

this  Rama  is,  and  how  he  went  to  the  earth;  but  considering  his 
human  nature,  our  minds  are  distressed  from  compassion.  The  army 
of  these  Eakshasas,  who  take  any  shape  they  will,  and  who  have 
assumed  various  disguises,  has  approached  the  hermitage  of  Rama, 
as  if  shouting.' " 

In  the  Bombay  ed.  iii.  24,  19  ff.,  however,  most  of  the  words  ascribed 
to  the  gods,  etc.,  are  quite  different:  Tato  devah  sa-gandha/rvah  siddhai  eha 
saha  oharamih  \  sameyukha  mahatmano  yuddha-da/riana-lcanlcshaya  \  20. 
JRishayai  mahatmano  lohe  hrahmarsM-sattamdh  \  sametya  ehochuh  sahitds 
te  'nyonyam  punya-karmanah''  \  21.  Svasti  go-lrahmananancha  loha- 
nam  cheti  samsthitah^  \  jayatam  Raghavo  yuddhe  Paulastyan  rajanl- 
chardn  \  22.  Chahra-hasto  yatha  yuddhe  sarvan  asura-pungavan  |  evam 
uhtva  punah  prochur  alolcya  eha pardsparam  \  23.  Chaturdaha  sahasrani 
rahhasam  hhima-karmandm  |  eka^  eha  JRdmo  dharmdtmd  katham  yuddham 
Ihavishyaii  \  24.  Iti  rdjarshayah  siddhdh  sa-gands  eha  dvijarshalhdh  \ 
jdta-kautuhalds  tasthur  vimdna-sthd^  eha  devatdh  \  25.  Avishtam  tej'asd 
Mdmam  sangrama-sirasi  sthitam  |  drishtvd  sarvdni  hhutdni  Ihaydd 
vivyathire  tadd  \  26.  Hupam  apratimam  tasya  Mdmasydklishta- 
karmanah    |    balhuva  rupam  kruddhasya  Hudrasyeva  mahdtmanah  | 

35.  Tasya  rushtasya  rupam   tu   Rdmasya   dadriie   tadd  \ 

Bakshasyeva  kratum  hantum  udyatasya  Pindkinah^  \  19.  "Then  the 
great  gods,  Gandharvas,  and  Siddhas,  with  the  Charanas,  (20)  and  the 
great  rishis,  the  most  excellent  Brahman  rishis,  assembled  in  the  world, 
eager  to  witness  the  battle :  and  being  assembled,  these  holy  beings 
thus  spoke  to  one  another:  21.  'Blessings  be  upon  cows  and  Brahmans, 
and  upon  the  worlds !  may  Rama  conquer  in  battle  the  Eakshasas,  the 
descendants  of  Pulastya,  (22)  as  the  god  who  bears  the  discus  (Vishnu) 
[overcame]  the  chiefs  of  the  Asuras.'  Having  thus  spoken,  and  looked 
at  each  other,  they  said  again :  23.  '  There  are  fourteen  thousands  of 
Eakshasas,  terrible  in  their  deeds,  and  the  righteous  Rama  is  but  one : 

'  A^rghatvam  arsham  |  Comm. 

8  The  following  Is  the  commentator's  note  on  the  last  four  words  of  this  line,  of 
Рќаwhich  it  is  difficult  to  make  any  sense  as  they  stand:  " Zokanam  ye  ' bMsangatah" 
iti  paths  lokanaih  lolcapalanaih  sangatah  hmir-homadi-dvara  upnkarakah  ity  arthah. 
"  According  to  another  reading,  loleanam  ye  ' bhisangatah,  the  sense  is,  '  and  upon 
those  guardians  of  the  world  who  have  arrived,  who  aid  us  by  means  of  oblations, 
sacrifices,'  etc." 

s  This  verse,  as  given  in  Gorresio's  edition,  will  be  found  above,  p.  373,  note. 


APPENDIX.  449 

how  stall  they  fight  together?'  24.  [Having]  thus  [spoten],  the  royal 
rishis,  Siddhas,  and  Brahman  rishis  with  the  [other]  hosts,  stood  in 
curious  expectation,  together  with  the  gods  in  aerial  cars.  25.  Behold- 
ing Eama,  full  of  might,  standing  in  the  front  of  the  hattle;  all  creatures 
were  agitated  with  fear.     26.  The  unparalleled  form  of  Eama,  vigorous 

in  action,  was  like  that  of  the  great  Eudra  when  incensed 

35.  The  form  of  Eama,  incensed,  was  heheld  then,  like  that  of  Pinakin 
(Eudra)  when  prepared  to  destroy  the  sacrifice  of  Daksha." 

From^a  comparison  of  these  passages,  as  given  in  the  two  diiferent 
recensions,  it  appears  probahle  that  the  speech  which  is  put  into  the 
mouths  of  the  gods  and  other  spectators,  in  the  Bombay  edition,  is  the 
most  ancient  and  original,  as  no  mention  is  there  made  of  the  divine 
nature  of  Eama,  the  reference  to  Vishnu  in  the  twenty-second  verse 
being  introduced  only  by  way  of  illustration,  in  the  same  way  as  the 
allusions  to  Eudra  in  the  twenty-sixth  and  thirty-fifth  verses.  In 
Gorresio's  edition,  on  the  other  hand,  there  is  a  distinct  reference  to 
the  divine  nature  of  Eama ;  and  I  therefore  conjecture  that  the  short 
speech  which  it  contains  has  been  substituted  for  the  other  somewhat 
longer  one,  by  a  subsequent  editor  in  support  of  this  later  conception. 

The  career  of  Eama  in  his  conflicts  with  the  Eakshasas  was  not 
entirely  unchequered  by  reverses.  In  the  forty-fifth  section  of  the 
sixth,  or  Tuddha  Kanda,  Bombay  ed.  (corresponding  to  section  20 
of  Gorresio's  recension),  it  is  related  that  both  he  and  his  brother 
Lakshmana  were  severely  wounded  and  rendered  senseless  by  a  cloud 
of  serpents  transformed  into  arrows,  which  were  shot  by  Indrajit,  son 
of  Eavana. 

In  |;he  following  citations  1  shall-  use  the  Bombay  edition  only, 
except  when  I  specially  refer  to  Gorresio's.  In  vv.  7ff.  (sect.  45)  it  is 
said :  Rdma-LahsJimanayor  eva  sa/rva-deha-lhidah  saran  \  Ihrisam  avesa- 
yamasa  Bavanih  samitinjayah  \  nirantara-^arirau  tu  tav  uhhau  Rama- 
ZahhmancM^"  \  kruddhenendrafita  virau  pannagaih  saratam gataih  \  tayoh 
hhata-ja-margena  susrava  rudhiram  bahu  |  ...  16.  Baddhau  tu  &mra- 
landhena  tav  uhhau  rana-murdhani  \  nimesMntara-matrem  na  hkatur 
avek'shitum  I  ...  22.  Fwpata  pratlMmam  Eamo  viddho  marmasu  marga- 
mih  I  Tcrodhad  Indrcyita  yena  pwa  S'ahro  'pi  nirjitah  \     "  The  son  of 

"  Instead  of  tm  ubliau  Mma-Lakshmanau,  Gorresio's  edition  (vi.  20,.  8)  reads 
Tiritau  taw  sdyahais  tada. 

VOL.   IV.  29 


450  APPENDIX. 

Eavana,  victorious  in  battle,  discharged  numerous  arrows  which  pierced 
the  whole  bodies  of  Kama  and  Lakshm^na.  Both  of  these  two  heroes 
had  their  bodies  [wounded]  in  every  spot  by  the  incensed  Indrajit  with 
serpents"  which  had  taken  the  form  of  arrows.     Much  blood  flowed 

through  the  openings  formed  by  their  wounds 16.  Bound  by 

the  chain  of  these  arrows  in  the  front  of  the  battle,  those  two  could 
not  look  up  even  for  a  moment."  ....  22.  Eama  first  fell,  pierced 
in  the  most  vital  parts,  in  anger,  by  Indrajit,  by  whomi  even  Indra 
had  formerly  been  conquered.""  Their  aUies  the  monkeys  arrive  and 
find  the  two  brothers  lying  helpless.  Рќа  Sect.  46,  3  ff.  .  .  .  Anvahehanta 
Bdffhavau]  acheshtau  manda-nUvascm  sonitena  pariplutau\  sara-jdldchitau^* 
stabdhcm  sayanau  ia/ra-tal/pa-gau  \  niivasantau  yatha  sarpau  nischeshtcm 
dlna-vikramau  |  ityadi  \  "They  bewailed  the  two  descendants  of  Eaghu, 
incapable  of  effort,-  breathing  slowly,  bathed  in  blood,  encompassed 
with  a  net  of  arrows,  stiff,  lying  on  a  bed  of  arrows,  breathing  like 
serpents,  helpless,  their  vigour  quelled,"  etc.  Vibhishana  comforts 
the  monkeys  by  saying  that  the  good  fortune  of  Eama  and  Lakshmana 
would  not  forsake  them  (vv.  38  ff.):  Athava  rakshyatam  Rdmo  ydvat 
sanjnd-viparyayah  \  lahdha-scmjnau  hi  Kdhutsthau  Ihayam  nau  vyapa- 
neshyatah  \  naitat  kinchana  Rdmasya  na  cha  Rdmo  mumurshati  \  na  hy 
enam  hdsyaie  Lakshrmr  dMrlabhd  yd  gatdymham  \  "  Or,  let  Eama  be 
guarded  while  his  insensibility  continues.  When  the  two  descendants 
of  Kakutstha  have  recovered  their  senses,  they  shall  remove  our  fear. 
This  [mishap]  of  Eama  is  nothing ;  he  is  not  about'  to  die :  for  Good 
Fortune  (Lakshml),  who  is  beyond  the  reach  of  the  dead,  wUl  not 
abandon  him." 

'1  The  edition  of  Gorresio  (see  preceding  note)  supplies  the  word  "arrows." 
Bohtlingk  and  Eoth,  s.v.  nircmtara,  translate  the  clause  thus :  "  There  was  no  spot 
on  their  bodies  in  which  an  arrow  was  not  sticking." 

^'  On  this  the  commentator,  in  conformity  with  his  dogmatic  views  regarding  the 
divine  nature  of  the  two  heroes,  remark^ :  iV┬╗  sekatur  mekshitum  |  tadrisav  iva 
sthitau  manus'hyai'oa-natanaya  iti  bodhymn  \  '"Could  not  look  up:'  remained,  as 
it  were,  in  this  condition.  This  is  to  he  understood  as  done  to  act  {i.e.  simulate) 
humanity  [i.e.  that  they  were  mere  men)." 

1'  Indrajit's  victory  over  Indra  is  related  in  the  Uttara  Kauda,  section  27.  He 
was  originally  called  Meghanada,  but  after  he  had  taken  Indi'a  captive,  he  received 
from  Brahma  the  name  of  Indra-jit,  or  the  "  conqueror  of  Indra,"  ibid,  section  30. 
A  summary  of  the  story  will  be  found  further  on. 

'*  Gorresio's  ed.  reads  iara-jalavriitm. 


APPENDIX.  451 

It  will  be  observed  that  nothing  is  here  said  of  the  divine  nature  of 
Kama;  and  nothing  is  said  of  Lakshml  being  his  spouse,  though  she 
is  regarded  in  Hindu  mythology  as  the  consort  of  Narayana  (see  the 
commentator's  remark  on  TJttara  Kanda,  17,  35,  which  will  be  quoted 
below). 

In  the  next  section  (the  forty-seventh)  of  the  Tuddha  Kanda  it 
is  related  that  Eavana  sent  Sita   on  his   car  Pushpaka,  with  the 
Eakshasi  Trijata  (v.  14),  to  th┬Ф  spot  where  Eama  and  Lakshmana 
were  lying  wounded  and  helpless;  and  that  on  seeing  these  brothers, 
"powerful  as  the  sons  of  the   god^"   {deva-suta-prdbhdvau,  v.   23), 
she  broke  out  into  lamentations,  supposing  them  to  be  dead.     The 
forty-eighth  section  contains  her  lament,  in  the   course   of    which 
she  says:    16.    "Did' not  the  two  sons  of  Raghu  possess  the  super- 
natural weapons  of  Varuna,  Agni,  Indra,  and  Vayu,  and  the  Brahma- 
siras?'^     17.  My  two  lords  (though  I  am  now  lordless),  Eama  and 
Lakshmana,  the  equals  of  Indra,  have   been  slain  in  battle  by  an 
unseen    foe,    by   enchantment.      18.    For  no  foe,   though  swift  as 
thought,  could  return  living,  after  he  had  once  been  beheld  by  Eama 
in  the  fight.     19.    Nothing  can  counterbalance  the  power  of  Time, 
and  Fate  is  invincible"  (vv.  16  ff.:  Wanw  Varunam  Agneyam  Aindrafh 
Vayavyam  eva  cha  |-  astram  Brahma-kira^  chaiva  Raghavau  pratyapad- 
yata  \   17.  AdrUyamanena  ram  mayaya  Vasavopamau  |  mama  natJiav 
anathayah  nihatau  Bama-Lalcshmanau  \  18.  Na  hi  drishti-patham  prapya 
Raghavasya  rane  ripuh  \  jlvan  pratinivarteta  yadyapi  syad  manojavah  \ 
19.  Na  Kalasyatihharo  'sti  Icritdntas  cha  sudurjayah).     Sita  is  then 
consoled  by  the   Eakshasi   Trijata,  who  teUs  her  (v.  22)  that  her 
husband  is  not  dead ;  and  explains  why  she  thinks  so.     In  vv.  30  f., 
she  says :  Nemav,  iakyau  rane  jetum  sendrair  api  surasuraih  \  tadrUaffi 
dm-ianam  drishtva  mayo,  ehodiritafh,  tava  |  idam  tu  sumahach  chitram^ 
id/raih  paiyasva  Maithili  \  visanjnau  patitav  efau  naiva  Lalcshmir  vimun- 
ehati  \  prayena  gata-sattvandm  pv/rushdnam  gatdyushdm  \  dri&yamdneshu 
mhtreshu  par  am  Ihavati  vailcritam  \    "  These  two  cannot  be  conquered 
in  battle  even  by  the  ,Suras  and  AsUras,  Indra  included.     Such  a  sight 
I  have  seen,  and  declared  to  thee.     But  behold  this  great  wonder,  that 
.though  they  are  lying  senseless  from  the  arrows.  Fortune  (L^kshmi) 

Рќа>*  The  commentator  says  on  this  verse ;  Fratya/padydta  pratyapaOyetam  |  elca-va- 
ehanam  arsham  \  "  nanv  "  italipunaih  tat  /dm  idanim,  na  amritam  iti  deshah. 


452  APPENDIX: 

does  not  abandon  them.  There  is  generally  a  great  change  in  the 
countenances,  when  beheld,  of  men  -who  have  lost  their  lives,  and 
whose  breath  has  departed."  While  the  monkeys  were  watching 
Bama,  lie  recovers  his  consciousness  (sect.  49,  v.  3) :  Masminn  antare 
Ramo  pratyabudhyata  viryavan  \  sthiraivat  satva-yogaohcha^^  iaraih 
sandanito  'pi  san  \  "  In  the  mean  time  the  heroic  B,ama  awoke,  owing 
to  his  firmness  and  robustness  of  frame,  though  he  had  been  bound 
by  the  arrows."  He  then  begins  to  lament  the  loss  of  his  brother 
Lakshmana,  whom  he  supposes  to  be  dead;  and  ascribes  the  mis- 
fortune to  his  own  bad  generalship  (v.  18 :  Imam  adya  gato  'vasthdm 
mamandryasya  durnayaih). 

In  sect.  50,  Vibhishana  laments  the  condition  of  Eama  and  his 
brother,  and  the  disappointment  thereby  caused  to  his  own  hopes  of 
becoming  king  of  Lanka;  but  is  comforted  by  Sugriva,  who  says  to 
him  (vv.  21  f.) :  Rayjyam  prapsyasi  dharma-jna  Lanhdyam  neha  sarh- 
sayah  \  Edvanah  saha  putrena  sva-kamam  neha  lapsyate  \  22.  Garudd- 
dhishthihitav  etdv  ijflihav,  Rdghava-Lahshmanau  \  tyahtvd  nwiham  ladhi- 
shyete  sa-ganarri  Mdvancm  ram  \  "  Thou,  0  [prince],  well  skilled  in 
duty,  shalt  without  doubt  obtain  sovereignty  in  Lanka;  but  Kavana 
and  his  son  shall  not  obtain  the  object  of  their  desire.  22.  Both 
Rama  and  Lakshmana  are  watched  over  by  Garuda :  having  escaped 
from  their  swoon,  they  shall  slay  Ravana  with  his  hosts."  Sugriva, 
however,  proposes  to  his  father-in-law  Sushena,  to  remove  Eama  and 
Lakshmana  from  the  scene  of  action  to  Kishkindha;  and  promises 
that  he  himself  will  slay  Eavana,  his  sons  and  kinsmen,  and  bring 
back  Sita,  as  Indra  recovered  the  lost  S'rl  (24  f.':  Saha  surair  hari- 
ganair  Idbdha-sdnjndv  arindamau  \  gachha  tvam  Ihrdtarau  grihya  Kish- 
kindhdm  Rdma-Lahshmanau  \  aham  tu  Rdvanam  hatvd  sa-putram  saha- 
bdndhavam  |  MaitMUm  dnayishydmi  Sakr'o  nashtdm  iva  S'riyam)}'' 

Sushena,  however,  then  relates  (vv.  26-32)  that  once  when  the  gods 
had  been  wounded  with  arrows  and  rendered  senseless,  in  a  combat 
with  the  Danavas,  they  had  been  cured  by  Brihaspati  by  his  know- 
ledge and  the  use  of  herbs  aided  by  sacred  texts ;  and  suggests  that 
some  of  the  monkeys  should  be  sent  to  the  ocean  of  milk  to  bring 

'*  Maha-hala-yuMatvat  \  Comm. 

"  In  Gorxesio's  edition  fifteen  more  verses  (vi.  25,  27-41)  follow,  in  'whieli  Sugriva 
boasts  further  of  what  he  will  acijomplish;  but  they  are  not  found  in  the  Bombay  ed. 


APPEN.MX.  453 

those  herbs.  The  Bombay  edition  then  goes  on  at  once  in  vv.  33  ff. 
to  relate  that  a  tempest  arose,  attended  with  lightnings,  and  announces 
the  arrival  of  the  celestial  bird  Garuda  for  the  purpose  of  curing  Eama 
and  his  brother.  In  Gorresio's  text  the  following  verses  are  intro- 
duced between,  those  which  correspond  to  the  thirty-second  and  thirty- 
third  of  the  Bombay  edition : 

Go.rresio,  sect.  26,  vv.  8,  9,  lOj  11a. Рђћ Athainam  iipasangamya 
Vdyuh  harne  vaeho  'hravU  |.  Rama  Rama  mahahaho  atmanam  smara 
vai  hridd  \  Narayams  tvam  hhagavdn  Rdhshaadrthe  'vatdritah  \  smara 
sarpa-hhuj'am  devam  Vainateyam  mahalalam  |  sa  sarpa-handhdd  gherat 
tu  ywdm  sammoehayishyati  |  sa  tasya  vachanam  irutvd  Rdghavo  Raghu- 
nandanah  J  sasmdra  Garudam  devam  Ihujagdndm  hhaydvaham,  \  "  Then 
Vayu,  approaching  him,  spoke  this  word  in  his  ear :.  '  Kama,  Bama, 
great-armed,  recollect  thyself  in  thy  heart :.  thou  art  the  divine  Nara- 
yana,  who  hast  descended  [to  earth]  on  account  of  the  Eakshasas. 
Call  to  mind  the  snake-devouring  god,  the  strong  Vainateya  (the-  bird 
Garuda) ;  he  shaU  deliver  you  twain  from  the  dreadful  bonds  of  the 
serpents.'  Hearing  Vayu's  words,  Eama  called,  to  mind  the  god 
Garuda,  the  terrifler  of  serpents." 

The  absence  of  these  verses  from  the  Bombay  edition  renders  it 
probable  that  they  formed  no  part  of  the  original  Eamayana.  But 
in  addition  to-  this  fact,,  another  proof  to  the  same  effect  is  to  be  found 
in  the  circumstance  that  in  the  verses  which  follow  shortly  after  in 
both  recensions  Eama,  after  being  cured  by  Garuda,  is  represented 
as  inqtuiring,  and  consequently,  as  being  ignorant,  who  his^  benefactor 
is,  although,  according  to  Gorresio'^  edition,  he  had  just  before  called 
Garuda  to  mind,  i.e.  summoned  him.  It  is  true  Eama  had  been  sense- 
less; but  he  had  regained  his  consciousness  so  far  as  to  call  upon  Garuda: 
so  that  in  Gorresio's  text  it  must  be  implied, Рђћ unless  we  are  to  suppose 
it  to  be  inconsistent  with  itself, Рђћ that  he  again  became  unconscious. 
The  verses  in  which  this  is  shown  are  as  follows  (Bombay  ed.  50,  37  ffl 
=Gorr.  ed.  26,  16  ff.):  Tarn  agatam  ahhiprekskya  ndgds  te  vipradu- 
druvuh  I  yais  tu  tau  pv/rushau  baddhau  iara-bhutair  mahdlalaih  \  tatah 
Suparnah  Kalcutsthau  sprishtva  pratyalhinandya  eha  \  vimamaria  eha 
-pdnibhydm,  muhhe  ehandra-sama-prdbhe  \  Vainateyena  samsprishtds  tayoh 
samrwuhwe  '*  vrandh  \  suvarne  eha  tana  snigdhe  tayor  dm  habhuvatuh  \ 
'8  TatKa-purvcm  samrudha-mamsah  abhuvan  \  Comro. 


454  APPENDIX. 

40.  Teje  vvryam  balam  oham'ah  utsahahha  mahdgunah  \  prada/rsmancha 
iuddhischa  smritii  oha  dviguna  "  tayoh  \  tdv  utthapya  mahatejah  Qarudo 
Vasavopamau  \  ubhtm  oha  sasvaje  hrishto  SdmaS  chainam  v/vaeha  ha  \ 
hhavat-prasddad  vyasanam  Rdvani-prmbhavam  mahat  \  wpdyma  vyati- 
hrdntau  ^ghram,  oha  halinau  Icritau  |  yathd  tdtarh  Dasa/ratharh  ydthd 
yanoha  pitdmaham  \  tathd  ihavantam  dsddya  hridayam  me  prasidati  | 
44.  Ko  Ihavdn  rupa-sampanno  dwya-srag-cmulepana'h  (The  last  Hue 
is  identical  witli  that  in  Gorresio's  edition)  |  "  Beholding  him 
arrived,  the  powerful  serpents  by  'whom,  in  Рќа  the  form  of  arrows, 
these  two  heroes  had  been  bound,  took  to  flight.  Then  Garuda,  having 
Рђбtouched  and  saluted  the  descendants  of  Kakutstha,  soothed  with  his 
hands  their  faces  brilliant  as  the  nioon.  Touched  by  Garuda,  their 
wounds  closed  up,  and  their  bodies  became  speedily  sleek  and  of  a 
Рђбbeautiful  colour.  40.  Their  fire,  strength,  force,  vigour,  and  energy 
became  many  degrees  greater,  and  their  insight,  understanding,  and 
memory,  were  doubled.  The. powerful  Garuda  raised  up  and  embraced 
those  two  [princes]  resembling  Indra;  and  Eama,  delighted,  thus 
addressed  him :  '  By  thy  favour,  and  through  thy  appliances,  we  have 
quickly  got  over  the  great  calamity  inflicted  by  the  son  of  Havana, 
and  have  become  strong.  Since  I  have  found  thee,  who  art  as  my 
father  Dasaratha,  and  my  ancestor  Aja,  my  heart  rejoices.  44.  Who 
art  thou,^"  distinguished  by  beauty,  adorned  with  celestial  garlands, 
and  unguents?'"  etc. 

1'  In  his  remarks  on  w.  40,  41,  the  'eommentator,  in  the  Bombay  ed.,  ex{)lains 
this  as  follows :  Bvigma  Vainateya-spariat  purvato  'py  adhika  ]  atra  anyair  dmair 
avatirya  bhagavato  Udmasya  mula-murfer  Рђб  ajnaya  vpdkardh  sampadito  Garudma  tu 
ma-rupatah  eva  iti  hodhyam  |  .  .  .  .  "  Though  formerly  great,  their  insight,  etc., 
became  doubled  from  the  touch  of  Garuda.  Here  it  is  to  be  understood  that  the 
assistance  was  rendered  by  the  command  of  the  divine  Eama,  the  root  [of  all  things] 
by  other  gods  descending  to  the  earth,  but  by  Garuda  in  his  own  form." 

^^  In  his  remarks  on  this  verse,  the  same  commentator  says :  "  Ko  ihavSn "  ity 
ayamprasno  'pi  mtmmhya-s'arJpoehita-vyavaltarah  eva  tat-satyatva-pratyapanarthah  | 
atra  Mama-samJpSgamana^paryaniam  pakshy-aharmaiva  agatya  sannidAi-matrma 
naga-bandhanancha  nirasya  Raghava-sparsanady-artham  purttsMkdrma  vymahri- 
tavan  iti  hodhyam  [-"This  question  '  who  art  thou  ? '  also  harmonizes  with  ┬БRama's 
assumption  of  ]  a  human  body,  and  is  designed  to  convince  men  of  its  reality.  Here 
it  is  to  be  -understood  that  the  author  accommodates  to  Kama's  human  character  the 
entire  narrative  from  {Garuda' s]  appearance  in  the  form  of  a  bird,  his  removal,  by 
his  mere  proximity,  of  the  fetters  of  the  snakes,  and  his  touching  Eama,  and  ending 
with  his  near  approach  to  the  latter,"  etc. 


APPENDIX.  455 

The  corresponding  passage  in  Gorresio's  edition  (sect.  26,  vv.  16  if.) 
does  not,  as  I  have  intimated,  differ  materially  from  the  above,  and  in 
it,  in  like  mlanner,  Eama  is  distinctly  represented  as  inquiring  who 
Garuda  is. 

In  reply  to  Eama's  question,  Garuda  teUs  him  (w.  46  ff.)  who  he 
is,  says  he  is  his  friend,  and  that  no  one  but  himself,  whether  god  or 
Asura,  could  have  delivered  Eama  from  the  bonds  of  the  serpents, 
which  had  been  turned  into  arrows  by  the  magic  art  of  Indrajit.  He 
warns  him  that  in  dealing  with  the  treacherous  Eakshas^^  he  must 
proceed  warily,  and  finally  assures  him  that  he  shall  slay  Eavana  and 
recover  Sita;  and  then  departs  after  walking  round  and  embracing 
him  (v.  60  :  Pradalcshimih  tatah  hritm  parishoajya  eha).^'^ 

There  is  another  passage  in  Gorresio's  edition  (book  vi.,  secft.  33)  in 
which  it  is  related  that  after  the  fall  of  Prahasta,  one  of  the  Eakshasas, 
Mandodari,  Eavana' s  queen,  went  into  the  assembly  to  dissuade  her 
husband  from  contending  any  further  against  Eama,  when  she  is  in- 
troduced as  saying  (v.  25  f.) :  Na  cha  manusha-matro  hau  Ramo 
Daiarathatmajah  \  ekena  yena  vai punam  bahavo  rahhasdh  hatah  |  "Nor 
is  this  Eama  a  mere  man,  he  by  whom  singly  many  Eakshasas  have 
formerly  been  slain."  The  same  idea  is  repeated  in  the  two  following 
verses,  where  the  number  of  the  slain  and  the  names  of  some  of  them 
are  given. 

The  passage  in  which  these  verses  occur  is  not,  however,  to  be 
found  in  the  corresponding  section  (the  fifty-ninth)  of  the  Bombay 
edition,  which  omits  verses  6-51  of  the  thirty-third,  and  the  whole 
of  the  thirty-fourth  sections  of  Gorresio's  edition. 

In  the  fifty-ninth  section  of  the  same  book  (Bombay  ed.)  it  is  related 
that  Lakshmana  was  wounded  by  Eavana  with  an  iron  lance  given  to 
the  latter  by  Brahma  (v.  105-7);  but  that  when  Eavana  tried  to  lift  his 
fallen  foe,  he  was  unable  (v.  109  f.) :  Himcwan  Mandaro  Merus  trailo- 
kyam  va  sahdmaraih  \  sahyam  hhvy'abhyam  uMhartum  na  iakyo  Bha/rata- 
nujah.  I  saktyd  hrahnya  tu  Saumitris  tadito  ^pi  standntare  \  Vuhnor 
amimdmsya-lhdgam  dtmdnam  pratyanmmarat  \   "Himavat,  Mandara, 

*'  FroA  thia  last  circumstance  the  commentator  infers  the  divine  nature  of  Kama. 
His  words  are :  FradaJcshinem  hritva  Hi  anena  divya-devatmniaro  Edmah  iti  sarvan 
pralerita-lcapin  praty  api  bodTiitam  \  "  By  these  words,  '  having  walked  round  him, 
with  the  right  side  towards  him,'  it  is  intimated  even  to  all  the  ordinary  monkeys 
that  Eama  was  an  incarnation  of  a  celestial  deity." 


456  APPENDIX. 

Meru,  or  the  three  worlds  with  the  immortals,  might  he  lifted  hy 
him  with  his  ajms,  hut  not  the  younger  hrother  of  Bharata.  But 
Lakshmana,  though  smitten  on  the  chest  with  the  lance  given  hy 
Brahma,  recollected  himself  to  be  an  incomprehensible  portion  of 
Vishnu.'"*  Similar  words  are  again  ascribed  to  him  in  v.  120: 
Vishnor  hhagam  amimamsyam  atmanam  pratyanusmarcm.  Expressions 
of  the  same  purport  occur  in  the  parallel  verses  in  Gorresio's  edition, 
sect.  36,  vv.  86,  88,  and  98.  The  words  in  v.  88  are  Vishnor  aehintyo 
yo  hhago  manusham  deham  dsthitah  |  "The  inconceivable  portion  of 
Vishnu  residing  in  a  human  body."  The  expressions,  however,  may  be 
later  interpolations  in  both  editions.     In  vv.  122  f.  of  the  same  section 

^'^  The  commentator's  note  on  v.  110  is  as  follows :  Amoghaya  Srahma-dattaya  sta- 
nantare  ahatah  Sattmiirir  Vishnor  amlmamsycm  niiicmiaya-  VisJmu-bhagatvcmantam 
iyattaya  ehintayitum  asakyam  va  Vishnor  hhagam  atmanam  pratyanustnarat  amva- 
snfarat  \  na  hi  sviyam  svam  hinasty  ity  aiayena  Brahma-iakti-mulaya  (?)  tranartham 
bhaga/vat-tejo  'mi ah  eva  aham  asmi  iti  dhyatavan  ]  nata-vad  angtirita-manmhyatvasya 
itareshaih  dridha-pratity-artha-param  na  sarvadd  tathd  dhyanam  |  evam  eha  JBrahma- 
bhavatfaya  Zakshmanena  sva-iarirasya  garlyastvam  apSditam  ity  uktam  bha/vati  \ 
"  Being  struck  on  the  breast  with  the  unfailing  (dart)  given  by  Brahma,  Latshmaua 
recollected  himself  to  be  indubitably  a  portion  of  Vishnu,  or  to  be  a  portion  of  Vishnu 
which  could  not  be  conceived  of  as  being  of  such  and  such  magnitude.  With  refer- 
ence to  the  principle  that  nothing  destroys  that  which  belongs  to  itself,  he  reflected, 
with  a  view  to  his  preservation  from  the  lance  of  Brahma  (?),  that  he  was  a  part  of  the 
divine  energy.  As  he  had,  like  an  actor,  assumed  the  human  form,  this  reflection  of 
his  had  the  object  of  confirming  the  belief  of  others,  and  it  is  not  (to  be  imagined)  that 
he  always  so  reflected.  And  so  too  by  conceiving  himself  as  Brahma,  he  made  his  body 
very  ponderous."  It  is  afterwards  said  in  verse  117  that  Hanumat  took  Lakshmana 
in  his  arms  and  carried  him  to  his  brother,  and  that,  though  he  could  not  be  moved 
by  his  enemies,  he  made  himself  light  to  Hanumat  in  consequence  of  the  latter's 
friendship  and  devotion.  On  this  the  commentator  remarks:  Idaih  cha  bhdkta-matra- 
sugrahatvam  bhagcmato  bhagavad-avatarandm  eha  svabhava-sidd/iam  eva  iti  bodhyam  | 
evam  cha  S^ma-Zakshmanayor  ajndna-saktimatva-tdtparyatayd  bhasamandni  vachai 
nani  mamesha-vesha-nirvahana-matra-parani  iti  bodhyam  \  tad  uktam  Bhagavate  | 
"  Martydvatdras  tv  iha  martya-s'iks?ianam  raksho-badhayaiva  na  kevalam  vibhoh  \ 
kttto  'nyatha  syuh  ramatah  sve  dtmanah  Sita-kritani  vyasandmsvarasya"  \  "This 
capability  of  being  taken  up  by  a  devoted  person  alone  is  to  be  understood  as  result- 
ing from  the  nature  of  the  Deity  and  of  His  incarnations.  And  so  it  is  to  be  under- 
stood that  the  expressions  which  seem  to  ascribe  the  capability  of  ignorance  to  Rama 
and  Lakshmana  are  only  intended  to  serve  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  their  characters 
in  their  human  disguise.  This  is  declared  in  the  Bhagavata  Purana  (the  verse  occurs 
in  V.  19,  6,  as  I  learn  from  Bohtlingk  and  Both's  reference,  s.v.  s'ikshana),  '  The 
Lord's  incarnation  as  a  man  on  this  earth  was  meant  for  the  instruction  of  men,  and 
had  not  merely  in  view  the  slaughter  of  the  Eakshasa.  Otherwise,  how  could  the 
Lord,  the  Spirit,  whose  delight  is  in  himself,  have  undergone  the  sufferings  arising 
from  Sita?'" 


APPENDIX.  457 

(fifty-ninth,  Bombay  ed.)  Hanumat  tells  Eama  to  mount  on  his  back, 
as  Vishnu  on  that  of  Garutmat  or  Garuda  ( Yishnur  yatha  Garulmantam 
druhya) ;  and  in  verse  125,  Eama  is  said  to  have  rushed  on  Eavana 
as  Vishnu  rushed  on  Vairochana  ( Vairochanam  iva  hruddho  Vishnwr 
ityadi). 

In  the  same  sect.  (59,  135  ff.,  Bombay  ed.)  it  is  related  that  Eavana 
was  defeated  by  Eama,  but  spared,  and  sent  back  to  Lanka.  After  his 
return  he  thus  speaks  (sect.  60,  v.  5  if.) :  Sa/rvam  tat  Tchalv,  me  mogham 
yat  taptam  paramam  tapah  \  yat  samano  Mahendrena  manushena 
mnirjitah  \  6.  lAam  tad  Brahmano  ghoram  vakyam  mam  abhyvpasthitam  | 
"  mamishebhyo  vijanihi  hhayam  tvam  iti  tat  tathd  \  7.  Deva-danava- 
gwndharvair  yahsha-ralcshasa-pannagaih  \  abadhyatvam  maya  proTctam 
manushebhyo  na  yacMtam"  |  8.  Tarn  imam  manmham  manye  Ramam 
Baiarathdtmajam  \  IhshvdTcu-kula-jatena  Anaranyena''  yat  pura  |  9. 
"  Utpatsyati  hi  mad-vamse  purusho  ralcshasadhama  \  yas  tvam  sa-putram 
samatyam  sa-halam  saiva-sdrathim  |  10.  Nihanishyati  sangrdme  tvam 
kuladhama  durmate"  \  iapto  'ham  Vedavatyd  ehayathd  sd  dharshitd purd  \ 
11.  Bey  win,  Sitd  mahdbhdgd  jdtd  Janaka-nandim  \  Umd  Nandikoa/ras 
chdpi Rambhd  Varuna-kanyakd  \  12.  Yathoktds^  tan  mayd prdptam  na 
mithyd  rishi-hhdshitam  \  etad  eva  samdgamya  yatnam  kartum  ihdrhatha  \ 
"  All  the  extreme  austerity  that  I  have  undergone  is  then  vain,  since 

'5  See  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Parana,  p.  371 :  "  Whose  (Sambhuta's)  son  was  Anaranya, 
Рќаwho  was  slain  by  Havana  in  his  triumphant  progress  through  the  nations"  (fato 
'narant/as  j  tarn  Mavano  dig-vijaye  jagKanc^.  Here,  and  in  the  legend  related  in  the 
second  volume  of  this  work,  p.  421,  note  129,  a  set  of  events  different  from  those 
narrated  in  the  earlier  books  of  the  Ramayana,  is  referred  to. 

The  story  of  Anaranya  is,  however,  told  in  the  TJttara  Kanda  of  the  Eamayana, 
section  19.  Dushkanta  (sie),  Suratha,  Gadhi,  Gaya,  Pururavas  (though,  as  the 
commentator  remarks,  they  Kved  at  different  periods  [bhinna-bhrnna-kala-vartino  'pi 
Duslikantadayah  sva-sva-haU  Eavanam  prati  jitatva-vadam  vara-danad  uktavantaK], 
yet  they  all  in  their  own  times)  submitted,  without  fighting,  acknowledging  them- 
selves conquered,  to  Eavana  on  his  victorious  march  through  the  world  in  consequence 
of  the  boon  Brahma  had  given  to  him  (v.  6).  Anaranya,  a  descendant  of  Ikshvaku, 
and  king  of  Ayodhya,  however,  when  called  upon  either  to  fight,  or  acknowledge 
himself  conquered,  prefers  the  former  alternative  (v.  9) ;  but  his  army  is  overcome, 
and  he  himself  is  thrown  from  his  chariot  (v.  21).  When  Eavana  triumphs  over  his 
prostrate  foe,  the  latter  says  that  he  has  been  vanquished,  not  by  him,  but  by  fate, 
and  that  Eavana  is  only  the  instrument  of  his  overthrow  (v.  26) ;  and  he  predicts 
that  Eavana  should  one  day  be  slain  by  his  descendant  Eama  (v.  29 :  Utpatsyate  kule 
hy  aaminn  Jks/wakunam  mahatmanam  \  Bamo  Daaarathir  noma  yas  U  pranan 


2*  Yathoktmxmtali  ....  yad  uchus  tan  maya  itipathmtaram  |  Comm. 


458  APPENDIX. 

I,  though,  the  equal  of  Indra,  have  heen  overcome  by  a  man.  This 
is  the  direful  word  of  Brahma  that  has  now  reached  me,  [when  he 
said]  :  '  Know  that  thy  great  cause  of  apprehension  is  from  men. 
I  have  decreed  thy  indestructibility  by  gods,  Danavas,  Gandharvas, 
Takshas,  Eakshasas,  and  Pannagas :  but  thou  hast  asked  no  [security] 
from  men.'  This  man  I  consider  to  be  Eama,  the  son  of  Dasaratha, 
since  I  was  formerly  thus  cursed  by  Anaranya  of  the  race  of  Ikshvaku; 
'  There  shall  arise  among  my  posterity  a  man  who  shall  slay  thee  in 
battle,  thou  lowest  of  Eakshasas,  and  wicked  wretch,  along  with  thy 
sons,  ministers,  hosts,  and  charioteers.'  And  I  was  also  cursed  by 
Vedavati  when  she  was  insulted  by  me  :  it  is  she  who  has  been  born 
as  the  great  Sita,  the  gladdener  of  Janaka.  And  that  which  TJma, 
Nandlsvara,  Eambha,  and  the  daughter  of  Varuna''  (Punjiiasthala) 
uttered,  has  befallen  me.  What  has  been  spoken  by  rishis  ^'  is  never 
falsified.     Wherefore,  ye  must  assemble,  and  make  exertions." 

In  this  passage  it  will  be  observed  that  there  is  no  express  reference 
to  the  divine  nature  of  Eama :  and  it  is  conceivable  that  the  original 
legend  may  have  represented  him  as  being,  even  in  his  human  capacity, 
of  sufficient  prowess  to  slay  the  king  of  the  Eakshasas. 

[Most  of  the  stories  referred  to  in  the  preceding  passage  are  given 
in  the  Uttara  Kanda,  and  I  shall  supply  an  abstract  of  them  here. 
That  of  Anaranya  will  be  found  in  note  23. 

The  rather  pretty  story  of  Vedavati  is  related  in  the  seventeenth 
section  of  that  book,  vv.  1  flf.,  as  follows :  Eavana,  in  the  course  of 
his  progress  through  the  world,  comes  to  the  forest  on  the  Himalaya, 
where  he  sees  a  damsel  of  brilliant  beauty,  but  in  ascetic  garb,  of 
whom  he  straightway  becomes  enamoured.  He  tells  her  that  such 
an  austere  life  is  unsuited  to  her  youth  and  attractions,  and  asks  who 
she  is,  and  why  she  is  leading  an  ascetic  existence.  She  answers  that 
she  is  called  Vedavati,  and  is  the  Vocal  daughter  {vdnmayi  hanya)  of 
Vrihaspati's  son,  the  rishi  Eusadhvaja,  sprung  from  him  during  his 
constant  study  of  the  Veda.  The  gods,  gandharvas,  etc.,  she  says, 
sought  to  woo  her,  but  her  father  would  give  her  to  no  one  else  than 

**  The  stories  connected  with  all  these  names  are  briefly  referred  to  by  the  com- 
mentator. 

**  The  commentator  remarks  here :  Rishi-padma  tapo-yuktah  uchyante  \  "  The 
Рќаword  "rishi"  denotes  persons  distinguished  by  austerity."  It  would  thus  refer  to 
VedaTati  and  others. 


APPENDIX.  459 

to  Yishnu,  the  lord  of  tie  world,  -whom  he  desired  for  his  son-in-law 
(v.  12 :  Pitus  tu  mama  Jdmatd  Vishnuh  hila  smekwrah  \  abhipretas 
trihkeias  tasman  nanyasya  me  pita  \  datum  iChhati  tasmai  tu).  This 
resolution  provoked  S^ambhu,  king  of  the  Daityas,  who  slew  her  father, 
Kusadhvaja,  while  sleeping,  on  which  her  mother  (whose  name  is  not 
given),  after  embracing  his  body,  entered  into  the  fire  (15).  VedavatI 
then  proceeds  (v.  16):  Tato  maneratham  satyam  pitur  Ndrayanam  prati  \ 
haromlti  tarn  evaham  hridayena  samudvahe  \  iti  pratijndm  aruhya  cha/rami 
vipulam  tapah  ]  ....  18.  Nardyano  mama  patir  na  tv  anyak  pwu- 
shottamdt  \  dsraye  niyamam  gJwraih  Ndrdyana-panpsayd  J  "In  order 
that  I  may  fulfil  this  desire  of  my  father  in  respect  of  Narayana, 
I  wed  him  with  my  heart."  Having  entered  into  this  engagement, 
I  .practise  great  austerity.  Ifarayana,  and  no  other  than  he,  Puru- 
shottama,  is  my  husband.  From  the  desire  of  obtaining  him,  I  resort 
to  this  severe  observance."  Eavana's  passion  is  not  in  the  least 
diminished  by  this  explanation,  and  he  urges  that  it  is  the. old  alone 
who  ^hsuld  seek  to  become  distinguished  by  accumulating  merit 
through  austerity ;  prays  that  she  who  is  so  young  and  beautiful  will 
become  his  bride;  and  boasts  that  he  is  superior  to  Vishnu  (v.  24). 
She  rejoins  that  ho  one  but  he  would  thus  contemn  that  deity.  On 
receiving  this  reply,  he  touches  the  hair  of  her  head  with  the  tip  of 
his  finger  (27).  She  is  greatly  iacensed,  and  forthwith  cuts  off  her 
hair,  and  tells  him  that  as  he  has  so  insulted  her,  she  cannot  continue 
to  live,  but  will  enter  into  the  fire  before  his  eyes.  She  goes  on 
(v.  31  ff.) :  Yasmat  tu  dhs/rshitd  ehdhafh  tvayd  pdpdtmand  vane  j 
tasmdt  tava  hadhdrthafii  M  samutpatsyaty  aham  {samutpatsyati  samut- 
poitsye  ity  arthah  |  Goisrca.')  punah\  nahi  iakyah  striyd  hamtum  purmhdh 
papa-niichayah  \  &dpe  tvayi  mayotsrisMe  tapasas  <sha  vyayo  hhavet  \ 
yadi  tv  asti  mayd  hinchit  Icrita'fh  dattam  Jmtam  tathd  1  tasmdt  tv  ayoni-. 
jd  sddhvl  hhwoeyam  dharminah  sutd  ]  evam  uktvd  prcmishtd  sd  jvalitam 
jdtavedasam  \  papdta  eha  divo  divyd  pushparvrishtih  samantatah  \  mishd 
Janaha-rdjasycti  prasutd  tanayd  prahho  |  tava  bhdryd  mahdhdho  Vishnus 
imam  hi  samdtana%.  \  purvam  hrodha-hatah  satrur  yaya  ^sau  nihatas  tayd  | 
wpdkrayitoS,  kailaVhas  tava  mryam  amdnusham  \  '"  Since  I  have  been 
insulted  in  the  forest  by  thee  who  art  wicked-hearted,  I  shall  be  bom 

"  This  language  offiers  an  exact  parallel  to  that  of  devout  female  ascetics  in  other 
parts  of  the  world. 


460  APPENDIX. 

again  for  thy  destruction.  Por  a  man  of  evil  designs  cannot  be  slain 
by  a  Рќаwoman ;  and  the  merit  of  my  austerity  would  be  lost  if  I  were  to 
launch  a  curse  against  thee.  But  if  I  have  performed,  or  bestowed,  or 
sacrificed,  augat,  may  I  be  born  the  virtuous  daughter,  not  produced 
from  the  womb,  of  a  righteous  man.'  Having  thus  spoken,  she  entered 
the  blazing  fire.  Then  a  shower  of  celestial  flowers  fell  from  every 
part  of  the  sky.  It  is  she,  lord,  who  (having  been  Vedavati  in  the 
Krita  age,  v.  38)  has  been  born  (in  the  Treta  age,  v.  38)  as  the 
daughter  of  king  Janaka,  and  [has  become],  thy  bride ;  for  thou  art 
the  eternal  Vishnu.  The  mountain-like  enemy  who  was  [virtually] 
destroyed  before  by  her  wrath,  has  now  been  slain  by  her,  after  she 
had  associated  herself  with  thy  superhuman  energy."  On  this  the 
commentator  remarks :  Anena  Sitd  eva  Ravan^-ladhe  muhhyaih  Icdranam 
Rame  tu  hantritvam  aropitam  iti  suehitam,  [  "  By  this  it  is  signified 
that  Stta  was  the  principal  cause  of  Ravana's  death ;  but  the  function 
of  destroying  him  is  ascribed  to  Eama."  On  the  words  "thou  art 
Vishnu,"  in  the  preceding  verse,  the  same  commentator  remarks : 
Anena  Sitayah  Lakshrmtvam  sphutam  evoktam  \  tad  ulctam,  Pa/raiarem 
" Raghavatve  'bhavat  Stta  Rukmini  Krishna-janmani"  iti  \  "By  this 
it  is  clearly  affirmed  that  Sita  was  Lakshml.  Parasara  says :  '  In  the 
god's  life  as  Eama,  she  became  Sita,  and  in  his  birth  as  Krishna  [she 
became],  Eukminl.' " 

I  have  not  noticed  in  the  Uttara  Kanda  any  separate  legend  about 
TJma,  but  the  commentator '*  connects  this  allusion  to  her  in  the 
preceding  passage  (vi.  60,  11)  with  the  following  story  about  Nandls- 
vara,  which  is  thus  told  in  the  sixteenth  section  of  the  Uttara 
Kanda  (v.  1  ff.) :  After  his  victory  over  Kuvera,  Eavana  went  to 
S'aravana,  the  birthplace  of  Karttikeya.  Ascending  the  mountain,  he 
sees  another  delightful  wood,  where  his  car  Pushpaka  stops,  and  will 
proceed  no  further.  He  then  beholds  a  formidable  dark  tawny-coloured 
dwarf,  called  Nandi^vara,  a  follower  of  Mahadeva,  who  desires  him 
to  halt,  as  that  deity  is  sporting  on  the  mountain,  and  has  made  it 
inaccessible  to  all  creatures,  the  gods  included  (v.  10).    Eavana  angrily 

^^  His  words  are :  Tatra  Uma-sapah  |  KailaSa-Hkhara-chalima-velatfSm  Bavanasya 
.  stri-nimittam  ttmranam  ity  evam-rupam  ity  ahuh  \  "  They  say  that  at  the  time  when 
he  shook  the  summit  of  Eailasa,  a  curse  was  pronounced  on  Bavana  that  he  should 
die  on  account  of  a  woman." 


APPENDIX.  461 

demands  who  S'ankara  (MahadeTa)  is,  and  laughs  contemptuously  at 
Nandi^vara,  who  has  the  face  of  a  monkey.  IfandTsvara,  who  was 
another  body  {apwra  tanuh)  of  S'iva,  being  incensed  at  this  contempt 
of  his  monkey  form,  declares  that  beings,  possessing  the  same  shape 
as  himself,  and  of  similar  energy,  monkeys,  shall  be  produced  to 
destroy  Eavana's  race  (v.  17 :  Tasmdd  mad-vlrya-samyuktah  mad- 
rupa-sama-tejaBah  |  utpatsyanti  hadhartham  hi  hulasya  tava  vanarah). 
Nandisvara  adds  that  he  could  easily  kill  Ravana  now,  but  that  he 
has  been  already  slain  by  his  own  deeds  (v.  20).  Eavana  threatens 
(v.  23  ff.)  that  as  his  car  has  been  stopped,  he  will  pluck  up  the 
mountain  by  the  roots,  asking  in  virtue  of  what  power  S'ira  con- 
tinually sports  on  that  spot,  and  boasting  that  he  must  now  be  made 
to  know  his  danger.  Eavana  then  throws  his  arms  under  the  moun- 
tain, which,  being  lifted  by  him,  shakes,  and  makes  the  hosts  of 
Eudra  tremble,  and  even  Parvati  herself  quake,  and  cling  to  her 
husband  (v.  26 :  Ghaohdla  Pdrvatl  ohapi  tada  Slishta  Maheivaram). 
S'iva,  however,  presses  down  the  mountain  with  his  great  toe,  and 
along  with  it  crushes  the  arms  of  Eavana,  who  utters  a  loud  cry, 
which  shakes  all  creation.  Eavana's  counsellors  then  exhort  him  to 
propitiate  Mahadeva,  the  blue-throated  lord  of  Uma,  who  on  being 
lauded-  will  become  gracious.  Eavana  accordingly  praises  Mahadeva 
with  hymns,  and  weeps  for  a  thousand  years.  Mahadeva  is  then 
propitiated  (v.  35),  lets  go  Eavana's  arms,  says  his  name  shaU.  be 
Eavana  from  the  cry  {rava)  he  had  uttered,  and  sends  him  away, 
with  the  gift  of  a  s^ford  bestowed  on  him  at  his  request  (v.  43). 

The  legend  of  Eambha  is  narrated  in  the  twenty-sixth  section  of 
the  Uttara  Kanda.  Eavana  goes  with  his  army  to  Kailasa,  to  conquer 
the  gods.  He  there  sees  the  Eambha,  the  most  beautiful  of  aH  the 
Apsarases,  and  is  smitten  with  her  charms  (v.  20).  She  says  she  is 
properly  his  daughter-in-law,  being  the  wife  of  Nalakuvara  (son  of 
his  brother  Kuvera),  with  whom  she  has  an  assignation,  and  cannot 
therefore  receive  his  addresses  (v.  34).  Eavana  says  the  Apsarases 
are  mere  courtezans,  without  any  husbands,  and  ravishes  her  (v.  41). 
She  goes  and  reports  the  outrage  to  Nalakuvara  (46),  who,  after  touch- 
ing all  his  organs  of  sense  {^cliahsJkur-adindriya-ganam  sarvam  \  Comm.) 
with  water,  launches  the  following  curse  against  Eavana:  v.  54. 
Akdma  tena  ,yasmdt,  tvam  laldd  hhadre  praUharshita  \  55.  Tasmdt  sa 


462  .  APPENDIX. 

yiwatlm  <myam  nakamam  upaydsyati  \  yada  hy  akamam  Mmarto 
iharshayishyati  yoshitam  \  murdha  tu  mptadha  tasya  iakakbhavitd  tada  | 
"  Since  tiou,  kind  lady,  who  h.adst  no  passion  for  Hm,  hast  heen 
forcibly  insulted  by  him,  he  shall  not  approach  any  other  damsel  who 
does  not  reciprocate  his  passion.  Por  when  through  passion  he  shall 
ravish  any  woman  who  has  no  passion  for  him,  his  head  shaU.  split 
into  seven  fragments."  Hearing  of  this  curse,  Eavana  resolves  to 
abstain  from  offering  violence  to  women. 

I  have  not  noticed  in  the  Fttara  Kanda  any  story  about  the  daughter 
of  Varuna,  but  the  commentator  on  the  text  (vi.  60,  11)  explains  the 
allusion  to  her  thus :  Varuna-hanyaka  Punjikasthala  tan-nimittam 
hrahma-kapah  strl-dharshane  maram-rupah  \  "The  daughter  of  Varuna 
was  Punjikasthala.  On  her  account,  a  curse  of  Brahma,  involving 
the  penalty  of  death,  [was  pronounced]  on  the  rape  of  women."] 

After  expressing  himself  as  above  (p.  468),  Eavana  desires  his 
brother  Kumbhakarna  (a  monster  who,  owing  to  the  curse  of  Brahma,^' 
slept  for  six  months  at  a  time,  and  remained  awake  for  a  single  day) 
to  be  awakened.  This  is  with  immense  difficulty  effected.  Kumbha- 
karna  asks  (book  vi.,  sect.  60,  Bombay  ed.,  vv.  67  ff.)  why  they  have 
awakened  him,  and  is  told  that  they  stand  in  dread,  not  of  the  gods, 
but  of  a  man,  Eama  (v.  72 :  Mdnushdn  no  Ihayam  rdjan  tumulam 
sampra^ddhate  \  ityddi) ;  when  he  assures  them  that  he  wiU.  destroy 
their  foes,  and  himself  drink  the  blood  of  Eama  and  Lakshmana. 
After  drinking  two  thousand  jars  of  liquor,  he  goes  to  see  and  consult 
with  his  brother  Eavana ;  who,  in-  answer  to  his  inquiry,  describes  to 
him  (sect.  62)  the  present  position  of  affairs,  and  the  necessity  there 
is  to  obtain  his  assistance.  Kumbh^akarna,  in  reply,  delivers  (sect.  63, 
Bombay  ed.,  vv.  2-21)  a  moral  discourse  on  the  wickedness  of  Eavana's 
conduct,  such  as  we  should  scarcely  have  expected  from  the  speaker's 
antecedents;^'  and  is  told  by  Eavana  in  answer  (vv.  23-27)  that  this 
is  not  the  time  for  such  laboured  lectures,  but  for  action,  to  which  he 
calls  upon  him  to  proceed,  if  he  has  any  regard  for  him,  or  pretensions 
to  valour.  Kumbhakarna  then  promises  (vv.  30  ff.  of  the  same 
section)  to  destroy  the  enemies  of  his  brother.  But  before  this  last 
speech  of  Kumbhakarna,  which  is  given  in  the  forty-second  section 
of  Gorresio's  recension,  that  text  introduces  another  speech  of 
┬Ф┬╗  See  sect.  61,  vv.  19  ff. 


APPENDIX.  463 

the  same  personage,  which  occupies  vv.  30-53  of  the  fortieth 
section,  and  a  further  speech  of  Ravana  which  fills  the  forty-first 
section ;  both  of  which  are  wanting  in  the  Bombay  edition,  and  even 
in  one  of  the  MSS.  consulted  by  Signer  Gorresio,  as  we  learn  from  his 
Preface,  vol.  v.,  p.  xlvi.;  and  might,  as  he  thinks,  be  omitted  without 
detriment,  or  perhaps  with  advantage,  to  the  connexion  of  the  ideas, 
and  the  march  of  the  poem.  Some  mention  must,  however,  be  made 
of  this  speech,  as  in  it  Kumbhakarna  gives  the  same  account  of  the 
divine  origin  of  Eama,  as  we  have  already  met  with  in  the  earlier  part  of 
the  poem  (see  p.  168  ff.,  above).  He  says  that  one  day  he  had  seen 
the  divine  sage  Narada,  who  had  told  him  that  he  had  just  returned 
from  an  assembly  of  the  gods  who  had  met  to  take  counsel  for  the 
destruction  of  the  Rakshasas,  on  which  occasion  Brahma  had  spoken 
as  follows  (sect.  vi.  40,  44  ff.,  ed.  Grorr.)  :  Eoam  uhte  tu  vaohane 
Brahma  devdn  uvacha  ha  \  abadhyatvam  maija  dattam  deva-daitywikeha 
.  rahshasaih  \  manushebhyo  hhayam  tasya  vdna/rebhyaseha  devatah  \  surd- 
awa-samuhe  'pi  hadhas  tasya  na  vidyate  \  tasmdd  esha  Harir  devah  padma- 
nabJias  trivihramah  \  putro  Da^a/rathasyddu  chaturbdhuh  sandtanah  \ 
Ihavanto  vasudhdm  gatvd  Vishnor  asya  mahdtmanah  \  vdnardndm  tcmum 
hritvd  sahdyatvam  harishyatha  \  ""When  [the  priest  of  the  gods  Vrihas- 
pati]  had  thus  spoken,  Brahma  said  to  the  gods:  'I  have  conferred 
[on  Eavana]  indestructibility  by  gods,  Daityas  and  Rakshasas:  he  has, 
0  gods,  to  fear  men  and  monkeys.  For  can  he  be  kiUed  by  all  the 
Suras  (gods)  or  Asuras.  Wherefore  let  this  god  (devah)  Hari  (Vishnu), 
from  whose  navel  sprang  a  lotus,  who  is  thrice-striding,  four-armed, 
and  eternal,  become  the  son  of  Da^aratha.  Ton,  gods,  repairing  to 
the  earth,  and  assuming  the  form  of 'monkeys,  shaU  agsist  the  mighty 
Vishnu.'  "  Kumbhakarna  says  that  Vishnu  has  taken  the  human  form 
of  Rama,  and  come  to  slay  them.  He  therefore  advises  that  Sita 
should  be  restored,  and  peace  made  with  Rama,  before  whom  the  three 
worlds  bow  down. 

In  reply  to  this  exhortation,  Ravana  utters  the  following  defiance  of 
Vishnu  (sect.  41,  2  ff.,  ed.  Gorr.):  Ko  'sau  Vishnur  iti  hhyato  yasya  tvam 
tdfa  hibhyase  [devatve  na  namasye  tarn  tathd  'nydn  devatd-ganan  \  manush- 
yatvam  gate  tasmin  him  hhayam  tvdm  Jipasthitam  \  nityam  samara-lhi- 
tds  tu  mdnushdh  mmahdhala  \  hhddayitvd  tu  tdn  purvain  katham  paichdd 
namdmy  aham  \  pranamya  mdnusham  Rdmam  Sltdm  datiid  tu  tasya  vai  | 


464  APPENDIX. 

Msya-lhutas  tu  lokanam  anuyasyami  prishthatah  \  Ragha/oam  tarn,  maha- 
haho  dma-rupo  Hha  ddsa-vat  \  riddhim  eha  paiyamano  ^sya  katham  iaksh- 
yamijlvitum  \  hritva  tasya  pv/ra  hhdryam  manam  Tcritvd  suddrunam  | 
prammed  Rdvano  Rdmam  esha  te  huddhi-mrnayah  \  yadi  Rdmah  svayam 
Vishnur  Ldkshmano  'piS'atahratuli\  Sugrivas  Tryambakah  sdkshdt  svayam 
Brahma  tu  Jdmbavdn  |  aho  idstrdny  adhltdni  yasya  te  huddhir  idrik  \ 
atltdiraminam  Rdmam  yo  namaskartum  ichhasi  \  devatvam  yah  pwrityiy'ya 
mdnusMm  yonim  diritah  \  asmdn  hantum  khildydtah  sa  sandheyah  katham 
mayd  |  yadi  vd  Rdghavo  Vishnur  vyahtam  te  irotram  dgatah  \  devatanam 
hitartham  tu  pra/vishto  mdnushim  tanum  \  sa  vdnardnam  rdjdnafh  Sugrl- 
vam  sarandni,  gatah  \  aho  'sya  sadri&am  sakhyam  tiryagyoni-gataih  saha  | 
virya-hinas  tu  Mm  Vishnur  yah  iritah  riksha-vdnardn  \  athavd  mrya- 
Mno  'sau  yena  purvam  mahdswrah  \  vdmanam  rupam  dsthdya  ydohitas 
tripadah  padam  \  Balis  tu  dlkshito  ycyne  tena  tvam  sakhyam  iehhasi  \  yena 
dattd  mahl  sarvd  sa-sdgara-nandrnavd  \  upaohdra-kritd  purvam  sa  haddho 
yajna-dikshitah  \  upakdri  hatas  tena  so  'smdn  rakshati  vairinah  |  yadd  me 
ni/rjitdh  devah  svargam  gatvd  tvayd  saha  |  tadd  Mm  ndsti  Vishnutvam  tasya 
devasya  Rakshasa  \  sdmpratam  kutah  dydtah  sa  Vishnur  yasya  hihhyase  \ 
idrira-rakshandrthdyu  Irushe  tvam  vdkyam  idnsam  \  ndyam  klivayitum 
kdlah  kdlo  yoddhum  niidchara  |  svdmyam  Pitdmahdt  prdptam  traihkyam 
va&a-gam  kritam  \  Rdghavam  praname  kasmdd  hina-vtrya.-pardkramam  \ 
tad  gaehha  iayantya/m  tvam  piva  tvam  vigata-jvarah  \  Sayamdnam  na 
hanydt  tvdm  Rdghavo  Lakshmanas  tathd  \  aham  Rdmam  ladhishydmi 
Sugrivancha  sa-Lakshmanam  \  vdnardmscha  hanishydmi  tato  devdn  mahd- 
rane  \  Vishnunohaiva  hadhishyami  ye  cha.  Vishnv-anuydyinah  \  gaehha 
gachhasva  tat  kshetram  chiramjwa  sukhi  Ihava  \  Ihrataram  tv  evam  uktvd 
'sau  Rdvanah  Kdla-choditah  |  sdvalepam  sa-ga/rjanoha  punar  vachanam 
abravlt  \  jandmi  Sitdm  dharani-prasutdm  jdndmi  Ramam  Madhusu- 
dananeha  \  etad  hi  jdne  tv  aham  asya  hadhyas  tendhritd  me  Janakdtma- 
jaishd '"  I  na  kdmdohchaiva  na  krodhdd  dhardmi  Janakdtmajdm  \  nihato 
gantum  ichhdmi  tad  Vishnoh  paramam  padam  \ 

30  A  verse  reBembling  this  in  most  of  its  clauses  had  previously  occurred  in  a 
similarly  defiant  speech  of  Eavana's  in  sect.  34,  7,  of  Gorresio's  recension :  Janami 
Sitdm  Janaka-prasutam  janami  Samam  Madhusudanam  eha  \  Mad  hi  janamy  aham 
asya  hadhyas  tathapi  sandhim  na  Jcaromy  anena  \  "I  know  Sita  to  be  Janaka's 
daughter,  and  Rama  to  be  Madhusudana;  and  I  know  this  that  I  shall  be  slain  by 
him ;  and  yet  I  cannot  make  peace  with  him."  Gorresio  regards  both  passages  as  of 
doubtful  authenticity.  In  explanation  of  the  epithet  dharani-prasutd  applied  to 
Sita,  I  may  quote  these  lines  from  the  Eamayana  (Bombay  ed.)  i.  66,  13  ff.,  where 


APPENDIX.  465 


┬Ф  (^ 


'  Who  is  that  being  called  Vishnu,  -vrhom  thou  fearest  ?  In  his 
divinity  I  reverence  neither  him,  nor  any  of  the  other  hosts  of  gods : 
what  fear  is  this,  then,  which  has  seized  you,  now  that  he  has  become 
a  man?  Men  are  always  afraid  of  battle.  "When  I  have  formerly 
eaten  them,  how  can  I  afterwards  bow  down  before  them  ?  Paying 
reverence  to  the  mortal  Kama,  and  restoring  Sita,  how  could  I, Рђћ 
an  object  of  derision  to  the  universe, Рђћ follow  behind  Eaghava  in 
humility  like  a  slave  ?  and  beholding  his  prosperity,  how  could  I  live  ? 
This  is  thy  opinion,  that  after  carrying  off  Eama's  wife,  and  manifest- 
ing terrible  haughtiness,  Eavana  should  bow  down  before  him !  Even 
if  Eama  were  Vishnu  himself,  and  Lakshmana  were  Indra,  if  Sugrlva 
were  Tryambaka  (S'iva),  and  if  Jambavat  were  Brahma Рђћ 0  thou  hast 
[well]  studied  the  Sastras,  thou  who  so  thinkest,  and  who  desirest  to 
make  obeisance  to  Eama  who  stands  without  the  four  orders  of  society; 
who,  abandoning  his  divine  nature,  has  eiitered  into  a  mortal  womb ! 
How  can  I  make  peace  with  him  who  has  come  to  kiU  us  ?  Or  if  it 
has  distinctly  reached  thy  ears  that  Eama  is  Vishnu,  and  has  entered 
into  a  mortal  body  for  the  welfare  o^  the  gods,  [still]  he  has  resorted 
[for  help]  to  Sugriva  the  king  of  the  monkeys.  How  suitable  is  his 
friendship  with  brutes !  Is  then  Vishnu  destitute  of  valour  that  he 
has  sought  [the  &i^  of]  bears  and  monkeys?  Or,  he  is  [certainly] 
devoid  of  valour  who  formerly  assuming  the  form  of  a  dwarf,  de- 
manded of  the  great  Asura  Bali  three  paces  of  ground,  while  he  was 
consecrated  for  the  sacrifice  :  with  such  a  person  thou  desirest  friend- 

Janaka  says  of  his  daughter :  Atha  me  hrishatah  hshetram  Tangalad  utthita  tatdh  ( 
14.  Kshetram  sodliayata  labdha  namna  Siteti  visruta  \  bhutalad  utthita  sa  tu  vya-  ' 
vardhata  mamatmaja  \  etc.  13.  "Now  as  I  was  ploughing  my  field,  there  sprang 
from  the  plough  (a  girl),  (14)  obtained  by  me  while  cleansing  my  field,  and  known 
by  name  as  Sita  (the  furrow).  This  girl,  sprung  from  the  earth,  grew  up  as  my 
daughter."  In  the  next  verse  she  is  styled  ayonija,  "not  born  from  the  womb." 
The  commentator  quotes  the  following  lines  from  the  Padma-purana  on  the  same 
subject :  Atha  loheivari  Lakshmir  Jcmukasya pure  svatah  \  subha-kshetre  halotkhate 
tare  chottara-phalgime  \  ayonija  padma-kara  bdlarka-eata-sannibha  |  Sita-mukhe 
samutpanna  bdla-bhawna  sundar't\Sitd-mukhodbhavat  SHd  ity  asyai  nama  chdkarot] 
tato  'bhudaurasi  taaya  TJririild  mma  kanyakd  \  iti  \  "Now  Lakshml,  the  mistress 
of  the  worlds,  was  born  by  her  own  will  in  the  city  of  Janaka,  in  a  beautiful  field 
opened  up  by  the  plough,  under  the  star  in  the  second  half  of  the  month  Phalguna. 
She  sprang  from  the  wonib  of  no  female,  with  a  lotus  in  her  hand,  like  a  hundred 
young  suns,  but  arose  from  the  opening  of  the  furrow,  beautiful,  in  the  form  of  a 
child?  He  gave  her  the  name  of  Sita,  because  she  sprang  from  the  opening  of  the 
furrow  {sltd).    Then  his  daughter  Urmila  was  born  by  ordinary  generation." 

РќаWf\T.        TV.  ┬╗i" 


466  APPENDIX. 

ship !  He  (Bali)  who  formerly  presented  to  him  the  whole  earth  with 
its  oceans,  forests,  and  seas,  was  bound  by  him  when  consecrated  for 
sacrifice !  A  benefactor  was  destroyed  by  him,  and  he  is  to  deliver  us 
who  are  his  enemies !''  When  I  went  to  heaven  with  thee  and  con- 
quered the  gods,  had  not  this  god  then  his  character  of  Vishnu? 
"Whence  has  this  Vishnu  now  come,  whom  thou  fearest?  Thou 
speakest  in  this  strain  to  save  thy  body  [from  injury  in  battle].  This 
is  not  the  time  for  timidity,  Eakshasa,  but  for  fighting.  I  have 
obtained  dominion  from  Brahma ;  the  three  worlds  are  subject  to  me ; 
why  should  I  bow  down  before  Eama  who  is  destitute  of  energy  and 
valour  ?  Go,  therefore,  to  thy  couch ;  drink,  free  from  disquiet. 
Neither  Eama  nor  Lakshmana  will  kill  thee  when  thou  art  sleeping. 
I  shall  slay  Eama,  and  Sugriva,  and  Lakshmana,  and  the  monkeys,  and 
then  the  gods  also  in  a  great  battle.  I  shall  kill  Vishnu  too,  and  all 
Vishnn'sj  followers.  Go,  go  theii  to  thy  abode^  live  long,  live  at  ease.' 
Having  thus,  impelled  by  fate,  spoken  to  his  brother  with  arrogance 
and  in  a  loud  tone,  Eavana  said  again :  '  I  know  Sita  to  be  sprung 
from  the  earth;  I  know  Eama  to  be  Madhusudana.  And  this  I  know, 
that  I  am  to  be  slain  by  him ;  and  therefore  have  I  carried  off  this 
daughter  of  Janaka.  It  is  not  from,  passion  or  from  anger  that  I  retain 
her:  I  desire,  being  slain,  to  go  to  that  highest  abode  of  Vishnu.'" 
Compare  the  quotation  from  the  Vishnu  Purana,  given  above,  regard- 
ing S'isupala,  pp.  215  f.,  note  212. 

The  change  of  tone  in  this  last  short  speech  is  remarkable.  The 
defier  of  Vishnu  all  at  once  acknowledges  his  deity  and  becomes  his 
humble  worshipper.  This  looks  like  a  still  later  addition  to  the  pre- 
ceding part  of  the  section,  inserted  by  some  editor  who  considered  the 
earlier  portion  to  be  too  blasphemous  to  be  allowed  to  stand  without 
some  qualification,  or  recantation. 

Again,  after  Eavana's  death,  Mandodari,  the  highest  in  rank  of  his 
queens,  in  the  lament  which  she  utters  for  her  husband's  loss,  speaks  as 
follows  (sect.  11 3,  5  ff.,  Bombay  ed.) :  Sa  tvam  mdnusha-mdtrena  Ramem 
yuihi  nirjitah]  na  vyapatrapase  rajan  him  idam  rdhhaseSvcfra\  6.  Latham 
trailoliyam  alcramya  ^riyd  viryena  chanvitam  |  avishahyam  jaghdna 
tvdm  mdnusho  vana-gocharah  |  7.  Manushandm  avishaye  eharatah  kdma- 
rupinah  \  vind^as  tava  Udmena  mmyuge  nopapadyate  \  8.  Na  chaitat 
SI  Such  is  the  sense Рђћ apparently  noi  a  very  suitable  oneРђћ of  the  words. 


APPENDIX.  467 

karma  Ramasya  iraddaShami  chamv-muhhe  \  sarvatah  samupetasya  tma 
tenabhimarshanam  \  9.  AtJiava  Rdma-rupena  Kritantah  svayam  agatah  \ 
mayam  tava  vinaiaya  vidhdydpraUtarMtam  |  10.  Athavu  Vdsavena  tvam 
dharshito  ' si  mahdlala  \  11.  Vasavasya  tu  M  kaMis  tvrdni  drashtum  apt 
mmyuge  \  Mahdhalafh  mahdviryam  deva-Mrum  mahaujasam  \  12.  Vya- 
Mam  esha  mahdyogi ''  paramdtma  sandtanah  \  an-ddi-madhya-nidhano 
mahatdh  paramo  mahdn  |  13.  TamMah 'paramo  dhfltd  sanhha-chahra-gadd- 
dhcurah  \  14.  S'rwatsa-vahhdh  nitya-inr  ajayyah  kdioato  dhruvah  \  md- 
rmsham  rupam  dsthdya  Vishnuh  satya-pardkramah  \  15.  Sarvadh  pari- 
vrito  devair  vdnaratvam  updgataih  \  sarva-loTceharah  irtmdn  lokdndm 
hita-Tcdmyayd  [  sa-rdhshasa-parwdram  deva-iatrum  hhayavaham  \  16. 
Indriydni  purd  j'itvd  jitam  trihhuvanam  tvaya,  |  smaradbhir  iva  tad 
miram  indriyair  eva  nirjitah  \  17.  Yadaiva  hi  Janasthdne  Rdkshasair 
hahuhhir  vriiah  \  Kha/ras  tu  nihato  hhrdtd  tadd  JRdmo  na  mdnmhah  \ 

"5.  Art  not  thou  ashamed,  0  king,  to  have  been  conquered  by 
Eama,  a  mere  man  ?  What  is  this,  lord  of  the  Eakshasas?  6.  How 
did  a  man  frequenting  the  forests  slay  thee  who  hadst  assailed  the  three 
worlds,  who  wast  distinguished  by  good  fortune  and  heroism,  and  un- 
conquerable? 7.  That  thou  who  movedst  at  will,  invisible  to  men, 
shouldst  have  been  destroyed  by  Eama,  is  inconceivable.  8.  I  do  not 
credit  this  act  of  Eama  in  the  front  of  the  battle,  the  overthrow  by  him 
of  thee  who  wast  endowed  in  every  way.  9.  Either  Death  (Eritanta) 
came  in  the  form  of  Eama,  applying  an  unimagined  magic  for  thy 
destruction,  (10)  or  thou  hast  been  overwhelm-ed  by  Vasava  (Indra). 

11.  But  what  power  had  Vasava  in  battle  even  to  look  at  thee,  who 
wast  the  mighty  in  force  and  heroism,  the  glorious  enemy  of  the  gods? 

12.  This  was  manifestly  the  great  contemplator  {Mahdyogin},^  the 
feiipreme  spirit,  the  eternal,  without  beginning,  middle,  or  end,  the 
great  Being  superior  to  the  great  (or  to  Mahat,'*  i.e.  Prakriti  or  matter), 
(13)  superior  to  darkness,^*  the  sustainer,  the  wielder  of  the  shell,  the 
discus  and  the  club,  (14)  who  bears  the  srivatsa  on  his  breast,  who 

'2  Svathaviha-sana-iaMi-yuJctah  \  Coram. 

''  This  knowledge  of  the  trulh,  says  the  commentator,  waa  derived  by  MandodarT 
from  the  divine  favour  {satyam  evam  Mandodar'i  jamte  Bhagmal-JcripayS). 

'*  The  commentator  does  not  say  in  what  sense  the  word  mahat  should  be  taten. 

3'  The  commentator  says  that  tamasah  paramah  mea,ns  prakriteh pravartakah,  "he 
who  causes  the  activity  of  Prakriti  (or  matter)."  Instead  of  tamasah,  he  adds,  some 
read  tapasah. 


468  APPENDIX.     . 

enjoys  perpetual  prosperity,  the  invimcible,  everlasting,  unchanging, 
Vishnu,  of  genuine  prowess,  who  had  assumed  a  human  form,  (15) 
and  was  attended  by  all  the  gods  in  the  shape  of  monkeys,  the  glorious 
lord  of  all  the  worlds,  who  desired  the  good  of  all  the  worlds.  ┬БHe 
slew  thee],^^  the  terrific  enemy  of  the  gods,  with  thy  attendant 
Eakshasas.  16.  Formerly,  by  subduing  thy  senses,  thou  didst  subdue 
the  three  worlds;  but  thou  wast  [afterwards,  i.e.  when  thou  didst 
carry  off  Sita,  etc.]  overcome  by  thy  senses,  which,  as  it  were,  re- 
membered" [and  revenged]  that  [former]  hostility  [of  thine  towards 
them].  17.  For  since  thy  brother  Khara,  attended  by  many  Eakshasas, 
was  slain  [by  Bama]  in  Janasthana,  Eama  is  not  a  mere  mortal." 

If  this  quotation  from  the  Bombay  edition  be  compared  with  the  cor- 
responding passage  of  Grorresio's  text  (sect.  95),  it  will  be  found  that, 
on  this  occasion,  the  former  is  more  diffuse  than  the  latter.  Verses  5-8 
are  nearly  the  same  in  both  recensions ;  but  instead  of  two  verses  (the 
ninth  and  tenth)  affirming  the  divine  character  of  Eama,  which  we 
find  in  Gorresio's  edition,  there  are  in  the  Bombay  recension  seven 
Verses,  in  most  of  which,  at  least,  the  same  idea  is  enforced.  The 
ninth  and  tenth  verses  of  Gorresio's  edition  are  as  follows :  9.  Athava 
Mama-ruper^a  Vishnui  cha  smayam  agatah  \  iava  n&iaya  mdydbhih  pra- 
vUyanupalahshitah  \  10.  Yadaiva  hi  Janasthane  rahshasair  lahubhir 
vriiah  \  Kharas  tma  hato  Ihratd  tadaivasau  na  mdnushhah  |  "  Or 
Vishnu  himself  came  in  the  form  of  Eama,  having  entered  into  him 
uiiperceived,  through  supernatural  powers,  for  thy  destruction.  10. 
For  since  thy  brother  Khara,  attended  by  many  Eakshasas,  was  slain 
by  [Eama]  in  Janasthana,  Eama  is  not  a  mere  mortal."  It  will  be 
observed  that  here  a  verse  (the  tenth),  which  corresponds  to  the  seven-  ' 
teenth  of  the  Bombay  edition,  immediately  succeeds  the  ninth,  and 
that  consequently  there  is  in  Gorresio's  text  no  such  development  of  the 
idea  contained  in  the  ninth  verse  as  we  find  in  vv.  10-15  of  the  other 
edition.  Now  if  we  are  to  suppose  that  the  original  text  of  the  Eama- 
yana  made  no  aUusion  to  Eama  being  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  it  might 
at  first  sight  seem  as  if  the  ninth  and  tenth  verses  of  the  Bombay  text, 

'^  It  is  necessary  (with  tke  commentator,  who  says  hatcman  iti  s'eshah)  to  supply 
the  words  in  brackets,  or  some  others  of  a  similar  tenor,  in  order  to  make  sense. 

*Рќа'  This  clause  the  commentator  explains  thus :  "  Fura"  Bhagmad-uddehna  tapo- 
'nushthana-lcale  \  "tad  vairam"  sva-jaya~nimittam  vairam  amaradbhir  indriyair 
akarma-pravritti-aampadanena  nirjitah  | 


APPENDIX.  469 

which  represent  Death  {Kritanta),  or  Indra,  as  taking  the  form  of  Eama, 
were  more  genuine  than  the  corresponding  Terse  of  Gorresio's  edition, 
which  declares  that  Vishnu  assumed  the  form  of  that  hero.  In  this  case, 
verses  12  ff.  of  the  Bombay  edition,  which  represent  Eama  as  an  in- 
carnate deity,  would  he  a  subsequent  interpolation.  But  the  twelfth 
and  following  yerses  appear,  on  examination,  to  hang  well  enough  to- 
gether with  those  which  precede ;  and  if  the  entire  passage  thus  forms 
one  connected  whole,  .we  can  only  (on  the  hypothesis  that  Rama's  divine 
nature  was  foreign  to  the  original  poem)  suppose  that  the  interpola- 
tion, or  alteration,  has  extended  over  a  wider  surface.  It  is  worthy 
of  remark  that  the  hundred  and  thirteenth  section  of  the  Bombay 
edition  is  in  other  parts  also  more  developed  than  Gorresio's.  Thus 
after  verse  40  of  the  Bombay  edition,  corresponding  to  verse  28  of 
Gorresio's,  eighteen  verses  are  inserted  which  are  not  in  the  latter, 
and  after  verse  59  of  the  Bombay  edition=verse  29  of  Gorresio's, 
twelve  verses  are  found  which  are  wanting  in  the  latter.  !From 
this  it  would  appear  that  both  recension*  have,  in  diffierent  pliices, 
received  developments  after  they  began  to  be  separately  handed 
down,  unless,  indeed,  we  are  to  assume  that  that  followed  by  Gorresio 
omitted  passages  which  had  previously  existed  in  the  common  source 
of  both. 

In  the  passage  w^ich  I  shall  next  quote,  the  legend,  makes  no 
mention  of  the  incarnation  of  Vishnu,  but  specifies  the  birth  of  Sita 
as  the  means  whereby  Havana  is  to  be  destroyed.  After  the  Blakshasas 
had  been  defeated  by  Eama  and  driven  back  into  Lanka,  their  females 
loudly  bewailed  the  calamities  by  which  their  race  had  been  overtaken. 
In  the  course  of  this  lament  they  say  (sect.  96,  vv.  25  ff..,  Bombay 
ed.=seGt.  74,  vv.  27  ff.,  Gorresio)  :  Rudro  va  yadi  vd  Yishnuv  Mahend/ro 
va  S'aitahratuh  \  hatiU  no  Rama-rupena  yadi  va  svayam  Antahah  |  26.' 
Hata-pravlrah  Ramena  nirasah  jiviie  vaywm  \  apaiyanto^^  Ihdyasyaniam 
anathah  vilapdmaJie  \  27.  Rama-hastad  Baiagrivah  suro  datta-mahd- 
varah  \.  idem,  bhayam  mahdghoram  mmutpannam  na  ludhyate  \  28.  Tarn 
na  devdh  na  gandha/rvah  na  pi^ahah  na  rdhhasdh  |  upasrishtam'^ 
paritrdtum  iahtdh  Ramena  samyuge  \  29.  Utpdtd^chdpi  driiyante 
Ravamsya  rane  rane  \  katkayanti  hi  Ramena  Rdvanasya  niiarhanam'  \ 

'^  Apasycmto  ' pasycmtyah  \  Comm. 

39   Upasrishtam  ha^twm  arabdham  \  Comm. 


470  APPENDIX. 

30.  Pitamahenu  pritena  deva-ddnava-rahshasaih  \  RavanasysMayam 
dattam  manushehhyo  na  yaehitam  \  31.  Tad  idam  manusham  manye 
praptam  nihsam^ayam  hhayam  \  jlvitanfa-karam  ghoram  rakshasam 
Ravamsya  cha  \  32.  Pidyamanas  tu  halina  vara-danena  rahshasa  \ 
diptais  tapohhir  vibudhah,  Pitdmakam  apujayan  \  33.  Bevatanam 
hitarthdya  mahatmd  vai  Pitdmahah  \  uvadha  devatds  tushtah  idam 
sarvdh  mahad  vachah  \  34.  Adya-prabhriti  loMms  trin  sarve  danava- 
rdhshasdh  \  Ihayena.  prahhritdh  nityam  vieharishyanti  idsvatam^"  \  35. 
Daivataia  tu  samagamya  sarvaU  chendra-ptirogammh  \  vrisha-dhvajas- 
Tripwa-hd  Mahddevah  pratosMiah  \  36.  Prasannas  tu  Mahddevo  devdn 
^tad  vaeho  'hravit  \  utpatsyati  hitdrtham  vo  ndri  rakshaih-hshaydvahd  \ 
37.  Ushd  devaih  prayuhtd  tu  kshud  yathd-^^  ddnavdn  pwa  \  hhahsha- 
yishyati  nah  sa/rvdn  rdkshasa-ghnl  sa-rdvandn  |  38.  Rdvanasydpanltena" 
durvinitasya  durmateh  \  ayam  nishtanuko  ^^  ghorah  solcena  samabhiplutah,  \ 
39.  Tan  na  pakydmahe  lake  yo  nah  Parana-do  ihavet ']  RdgJiavenopasrkh- 
tdndm  hdhneva  yugahshaye  |  25.  "Eitker  Eudra,  or  Vishnu,  or  ttie 
great  Indra  S'atakratu,  or  Eeath  himself,  slays  us  in  the  form  of  Rama. 
26.  Having  had  our  heroes  destroyed  by  Kama,  we  despair  of  life. 
Seeing  no  end  of  our  apprehension,  we  lament,  deprived  of  our  pro- 
tectors. 27.  The  heroic  Dasagrlva  (Ravana),  who  had  received  a  great 
boon  [from  Brahma]  does  not  perceive  this  great  cause  of  alarm  which 
[comes]  from  the  hand  of  Rama.  28.  Neither  Gods,  nor  Gandhaxvas, 
nor  Pi^achas,  nor  Rakshasas,  are  able  to  deliver  him  when  assailed  by 
,  Rama  in  fight.  29.  Portents,  too,  regarding  Ravana  are  seen  in  every ' 
battle,  which  foretell  his  destruction  by  Rama.  30.  Pitamaha,  gratified, 
granted  to  Ravana  security  against  Gods,  Danavas  and  Rakshasas,  but 
he  did  not  ask  [to  be  secured]  against  men.  31.  This  dreadful  danger 
from  nien  has  now,   I  think,  without  doubt  arrived,  which  shall 

'"  These  wordB  are  thus  explained  by  the  commentator :  Danavah  raJcshasSs  cha 
ihayena  prabhritah  devebhyo  hhayam  iiihranah  eva  mcharishyanii  \  devah  svatah 
parato  va  'sman  pldayishyanti  ity  arthah  \  "  The  "Danavas  and  Eakshasas  shall  roam 
about  entertaining  fear  of  the  gods :  viz.  that  the  gods  themselves,  or  through  others, 
would  distress  them."  This  verse  is  thus  given  in  Gorresio's  edition  (74,  36  f.) : 
Adya-prabhriti  lolceshu  ye  bhutah  bhaya-varjitah  \  b/iayartas  te  punar  iha  vieharish- 
yanti rakshasah. 

41  11  pafa  "  pwna-halpe  [devoir  danava-nasartham  prayuMa  ishud  yatha  danavan 
harati  sma\  Comm.  "  'As  formerly,'  in  a  former  Kalpa,  Hunger,  being  appointed  by 
the  gods  for  the  destruction  of  the  Danavas,  carried  ithem  off." 

**  Apamtena  anayena  \  Comm.  *'  Nishtanalco  nasah  |  Comm. 


APPENDIX.  471 

terminate  tte  life  of  Eavana  and  tte  Eakshaaas.  32.  Now  the  gods, 
Рђбwten  oppressed  by  the  Rakshasa  (Eavana),  who  was  mighty  through 
.  the  boon  -whieh  [Brahma]  had  conferred  on  him,  worshipped  Pitamaha 
(Brahma)  with  ardent  austerities.  33.  The  great  Pitamaha,  pleased, 
addressed  this  great  word  to  all  the  deities  for  their  benefit:  34.  'Prom 
this  day  forward  all  the  Danavas  and  Eakshasas  shall  roam  continually 
through  the  three  worlds,  influenced  by  fear.'  35.  But  all  the  gods," 
with  Indra  at  their  head,  assembled  and  propitiated  Mahadeva,  whose 
banner  is  a  buU,  and  who  destroyed  Tripura  (or,  the  three  castles). 

36.  He,  being  pleased,  thus  spake  to  them :  '  Eor  your  benefit  there 
shaU  arise  a  female  who  shall  bring'  destruction  to  the  Eakshasas.' 

37.  This  female  slayer*'  Of  Eakshasas,  being  commissioned  by  tjie 
gods,  shall  [now]  devour  all  of  us,  including  Eavana;  as  Hunger 
formerly  [devoured]  the  Danavas.  38.  Through  the  folly  of  the  mis- 
guided and  wicked  Eavana  this  dreadful  destruction,  accompanied  by 
affliction,  has  come  upon  us.  39.  We  see  no  one  in  the  world  who 
shall  afford  protection  to  us  assailed  by  Eama,  as  it  were  by  Time  at 
the  end  of  the  ages." 

Compare  with  the  preceding  passage  the  story  of  Devavati,  extracted 
above  (p.  458  ff.)  from  the  TJttara  Kanda.  Both  of  these  forms  of  the 
legend  appear  to  regard -Sita,  and  not  Vishnu,  as  the  real  destroyer  of 
Eavana. 

In  an  earlier  part  of  the  poem  it  is  related  that  after  Eama  had  slain 
the  Eakshasa  Khara,  he  was  congratulated  by  the  gods  in  a  way  which, 
strictly  speaking,  is  scarcely  consistent  with  the  idea  that  the  poet  re- 
garded him  as  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu  :  , 

Aranya  Kanda  (or  Third  Book)  30,  v.  27  ff.  (Bombay  edition 
=section  35,  vv.  93  ff.,  Gorresio's  edition).  Рђћ  Sa  papata  Khmo 
hhumau  dahyamanah  iaragnina  \  Budreneva  mnirdagdhah  S'veta- 
ranye  yatha  'ntakah  \  28.  /Sai  Vritrah  i/oa  vajrena  phenena  Namuchir 
yatha  \  Bah  vend/raiani-hato  nipapata  haiah  Kharah  \  29.  Masminn 

**  The  commentator  remarks  here :-  Evam  Brahmanah  prasadat  sahhm/atva-matram 
praptam  \  samharMM/eritaSudra-prasudena  tu  nasah  evasmakam  ity  ahuh  \  "  Thus 
by  the  favour  of  Brahma,  the  gods  only  obtained  that  the  [Danavas,  etc.]  should  be 
terrified :  but  through  the  favour  [granted  to  them]  by  Eudra,  whose  function  is  de- 
struction, we  shall  be  destroyed." 

"  Said  to  be  Sita,  according  to  the  commentator  (┬Фa  esha  Sita  eva  ity  ahuh). 
Gorresio's  text  has  Saisha  daiva-prasriahta  tu  hshuihita  JanakdtmajS,  etc. 


472  APPENDIX. 

antrn^e  devdi  cTidranaih  saha  sangatdh  \  dundubMmseTidbhinighnantah 
pushpa-varsMm  mmantatah  \  30.  Rdmasyopwri  samhrisMdh  vmarshur 
vismitds  tadd  \  ardhddhiha-muhurtena  Rdmena  niiitaih  iaraih  |  31. 
Ghaturdaia  sahasrdni  rahshasdm  Mma-rupindm  \  Khara-Busham- 
muhhyandm  nihatdni  mahdmridhe  \  32.  Aho  lata  mdkat  ha/rma  Rdmasya 
viditdtmanah  \  aho  mryam  aho  ddrdhyam  Vishnor  iva  hi  driiyate  \  33. 
Ity  evam  uhtvd  te  sarve  yayw  devdh  yathdgatani  \  27.  "Burnt  up  by 
the  fire  of  the  arrow,  Ehara  fell  like  Antaka,  who  was  formerly  con- 
sumed by  Eudra  in  the  SVeta  (white)  forest.^  28.  He  fell  like  Vritra 
smitten  by  the  thunderbolt,  like  Namuchi  by  the  foam,"  or  like  Bala 
by  the  lightning  of  Indra.  29.  At  this  moment  the  gods,  joined  with 
the  Charanas,  beating  kettle-drums,  delighted,  (30)  rained  on  Eama 
a  shower  of  flowers  all  round,  and  [said]  in  astonishment:  'In  a 
muhurta  and  a  half  (two  hours)  (31)  fourteen  thousand  Rakshasas, 
changing  their  shapes  at  will,  headed  by  Khara  and  Dushana,  have 
been  slain  by  Eama  with  sharp  arrows  in  a  great  fight.  32.  0  what 
a  mighty  exploit  of  Eama,  who  knows  himself!^  0,  his  valour  and 
his  firmness  are  seen  to  be  like  those  of  Vishnu,!'  33.  Having  thus 
spoken,  all  those  gods  went  as  they  came." 

If  the  writer  of  these  verses  regarded  Eama  as  an  incarnation  of 
Vishnu,  it  would  seem  to  have  been  superfiuous  to  compare  him  with 
that  deity.  In  the  oorrespofiding  section  of  Gorresio's  edition  (the 
thirty-fifth)  the  several  classes  of  rishis  are  introduced  as  [among 

*^  On  this  legend  the  commentator  infdrms  us  as  follo-^s :  AndhaJcasurah  S'veta- 
ranye  Endrena  hatah  iti  pumna-prasicldham  |  .  .  .  .  "  S'vetaram/e  yatha  'ntakah" 
iti  prachwah  pathah  \  taira  Kaveri-tlra-vartini  S'vetaraiiye  Markandeya-chirajivU- 
vaya  AntaJca-mihJmro  Mudrena,  kritah  iti  tan-mahatmye  praaiddhih  \  Kaurme  tu 
uttaraJehande  S'vetasya  rajairsheh  paramasaivasya  Kalanjare  parvate  tapasy  ahhi- 
ratasya  maraniya  agatasya  AntaMsya  S'ivena  vama-pada-praharma  samharah  kritah 
iti  shattrimse  'dhyaye  uktam  \    "The  asura  Andhaka  was  slain  by  Rndra  in  the 

S'veta  forest,  as  is  well  known  from  the  Puranas The  reading,  '  as  Antaka  in 

the  S'veta  forest,'  is  fre(juently  met  with.  Regarding  him  it  is  told  in  the  Glorifica- 
tion of  Markandeya  that,  to  prolong  the  life  of  that  sage,  Antaka  (the  Ender,  Death) 
was  destroyed  by  Eudra.  But  in  the  latter  part  of  the  Kurma-purana,  sect.  36,  it 
is  related  that  Antaka,  who  had  come  to  kill  the  royal  rishi  S'veta,  an  eminent  votary 
of  S'iva,  who  was  addicting  himself  to  austerities  on  the  Kslanjara  mountain,  was 
destroyed  by  a  blow  of  S'iva's  left  foot."  Compare  A.V.  xi.  2,  7,  quoted  above. 
p.  336,  where  Eudra  is  caUed  "the  slayer  of  Ardhaka." 

"  See  above,  p.  261,  and  note  259, 

**  Viditatmanali.    This  epithet  is  not  explained  by  the  commentator. 


APPENDIX.  473 

other  things]  applauding  Eama  for  displaying  the  qualities  of  a 
Kshatriya  {dharmajna,  vm-dhase  dishtya  kshatra-dharmena  Raghava,  v.  99), 
and  as  saying  to  him  (vv.  105  if.)  that  all  the  gods,  Gandharvas, 
etc.,  -were  saluting  him  with  congratulations  on  his  victory  {jaya- 
iirhhih),  and  that  Brahma  and  Mahadeva  wel:e  paying  him  honour. 
Eama  is  then  said  to  have  "made  obeisance  to  the  gods  whom  he 
saw  not  far  off  standing  on  their  celestial  cars  "  {namas  chahre  vimd- 
nasthdn  drishtvd  'dure  dkauJeasah). 

The  following  is  another  passage  of  the  sixth  or  Tuddha  Kan  da 
occurring  in  the  Bombay  edition,  but  not  in  Gorresio's,  in  which  Eama, 
when  about  to  engage  in  battle  with  Eavana,  is  recommended  by 
Agastya  to  utter  a  hymn  to  the  Sun,  which  will  insure  his  victory 
over  his  enemy.  Not  a  word  is  sai^  of  Eama's  own  divinity,  and  in 
fact  the  use  of  such  a  prayer  does  not  seem  to  harmonize  with  such 
a  character : 

vi.  106,  1  ff.  (Bombay  ed.):  Tato  yuddha-parisrantam  samara  ehintaya 
HMtam  1  Rdvanam  dhdgrato  drishtvd  yuddhdya  sarmipasthitam  \  2. 
Daivatais  cha  samdgamya  drashtum  ahhydgato  ranam  \  upagamydhravid 
РќаRamam  Agastyo  Ihagavams  tadd  |  3.  Rama  Rdma  mahabdho  irinu 
guhydm  sandtanam  \  yena  sarvdn  arm  vatsa  samwre .  vijayishyase  |  4. 
Aditya-hridayam  puny  am  sarva-satru-vindianam  |  jaydvaham  japan 
nityam  akshayam  pwramam  sivam  \  5.  Sarva-mangala-mdngalyam  sa/rva- 
pdpa-prandsanam  \  ehintd-ioTca-prasamanam  dywrva/rdhana/ni,  uUamam  j 
6.  Rasmimantam  samudyantam  devdswra-namaskriiam  \  pujayasva  Vivas- 
vantam  hhdskaram  hhuvanesvaram  |  7.  Sarva-devdtmako  hy  esha  tejasvi 
raimi-ihdvanah  \  esha  devasura-gandn  lolcdn  pdti  gayhastibhih  |  8.  Esha 
Brdhmd  cha  Vishnus  eha  S'ivah  Skandah  Frajdpatih  \  Mahendro  Bhanadah 
Kdlo  Yamah  Soma  hy  Apdmpatih  \  9.  Pita/ro  Fiisavah  Sddhydh  Ahinau 
Maruto  Manuh\  Vdytir  Vahnih  prajdh  prdnah  ritu-ha/rta  prabhdkarah\ 
10.  Adityah  Savitd  Suryah  kha-gah  Pmha  gahhastimdn  \  smarna-sadriso 
Ihanur  hiranya-retdh*^  div&karah  |  ....  26.  Pujayasvainam  ekdgro 
deva-devam  jagat-patim  \  etat  triguniiam  japtvd  yuddheshu  vijayishyati  | 
27.  Asmin  kshane  mahabdho  Rdvanam  tvam  jahishyasi  \  evam  uktvd  tato 
'gastyo  jagdma  sa  yathdgatam  I  28.  Maeh  chhrutvd  mahdtejdh  nashta- 
hko  'hhavat  tadd\  dhdrayamasa  suprlto  Rdghawah  prayatdtmavdn  |.  29. 
Adityam  prekshya  japtvedam  pa/ram  ha/rsham  avdptmdn  \  trir  dchamya 
*'  Ahsharadhihyam  arsham  \  Comm.  i 


474  APPENDIX. 

iuehir  bhutva  dhanur  adaya  vlryman  \  30.  Ravamm  prekshya  hriahtdtmd 
j'aydriham  mmvpagamat  \  sarva-yatnena  mahata  vritas  tasya  ladhe  'hhavat\ 
31.  Atha  ravir  avadad  mrikshya  Rdmam  mudita-manah  pa/ramam  pra- 
hrishyamanah  \  niHcharapati-sanhBhayam  viditva  sura-gana-madhya-gato 
vachas  tvareti  \ 

"  The  divine  Agastya  then  heholding  [Eama]  fatigued  with  the  con- 
,  flict,  standing  anxious  ^  in  the  battle,  and  in  his  front  Kavana,  who 
had  drawn  near  to  the  combat,  [Agastya,  I  say],  (2)  who  had  arrived 
to  see  the  donflict,  joining  the  gods,  and  coming  neaf  to  Eama, 
said:  3.  'Eama,  Eama,  great-armed,  hear  the  eternal  mysterious 
[prayer],  by  which,  my  son,"  continually  muttering  it, Рђћ (4)  the  holy 
Aditya-hridaya  ('heart  of  the  sun'),  which  destroys  all  enemies,  brings 
victory,  is  undecaying,  supreme,  Ipeneficent,  (5)  the  auspieiousness  of 
all  auspicious  things,  the  destroyer  of  all  sins,  the  aUayer  of  anxieties 
and  sorrows,  the  prolonger  of  life,  the  most  excellent Рђћ thou  shalt 
conquer  all  thine  enemies  in  battle.  6.  Worship  the  rising  Vivasvat,*^ 
the  radiant  sun,  adored  by  gods  and  Asuras,  the  lord  of  the  world. 
~7.  For  he  possesses  the  essence  of  all  the  gods,  is  fiery,  the  producer 
of  rays.  He  by  his  beams  sustains  the  gods,  the  Asuras,  and  the 
worlds.  8.  He  is  both  Brahma  and  Vishnu,  S'iva  and  Skanda,  Praja- 
pati,  Indra,  Kuvera,  Kala  (Time),  Tama,  Soma,  and  the  lord  of  waters 
(Varuna),  (9)  the  Pitris,  Vasus,  Sadhyas,  Asvins,  Manu,  Yayu,  Agni, 
created  beings,  breath,  the  former  of  the  seasons,  the  producer  of  Ught, 
(10)  Aditya,  Savitri,  Surya,  moving  in  the  sky,  Pushan,  the  radiant, 

50  The  commentator  will  not  allow  this  apprehension  to  be  real:  Ihiam  hhaya- 
natanam  tan-mulaJeam  AgastyaA  .wpaieia-grahanam  lokanugrahaf/a  lokasya  jaya- 
sadhema-vastu-prakasanartham  iti  tattvam  \  '.'  The  truth  is  that  this  acting  (or 
simulation)  of  fear,  and  the  acceptance  of  instruction  from  Agastya  founded  thereon, 
originated  in  kindness  to  mankind,  and  in  a  desire  to  reveal  to  them  the  means  of 
gaining  victory." 

5'  See  above,  p.  389,  how  much  Brahma  was  offended  by  having  this  appellation, 
vatsa,  "my  son,"  applied  to  him  by  Vishnu.  If,  then,  the  poet  here  intended  to 
represent  Eama  as  possessing  a  divine  nature,  he  must  have  conceived  of  Vishnu  as 
less  susceptible  than  Brahma,  when  he  makes  Agastya  address  him  thus. 

*"  Compare  the  hymn  to  Surya  in  the  Mahahh.  iii.  166  ff.,  of  which  some  specimens 
are  given  in  the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  161.  It  is  there  said,  v.  190 :  Tmm 
Indram  ahus  tvam  Vishnus  tvam  Budras  tvam  Frajapatih  \  ivam  Agnis  tvam  manah 
suhshmam prabhus  tvam  Brahma  saivatam  \  "They  call  thee  Indra;  thou  art  Vishnu, 
Eudra,  Prajapati:  thou  art  Agni,  the  subtile  Mind,  thou  art  the  lord,  the  Eternal 
Brahma." 


APPENDIX.  475 

of  golden  hue,  tke  shining,  -who  has  golden  seed,  the  maker  of  the 
day."  Then  follow  (vv.  11-15)  many  other  titles  of  the  Sun,  suc- 
ceeded (v7.  15-21)  by  invocations  addressed  to  him  under  various 
appellations,  among  which  is  (v.  19)  Brahmdanaohyutesdya,^'^  "to  the 
lord  of  Brahma,  I^ana  (S'iva),  and  Achyuta  (Vishnu)."  After  some 
further  eulogies  of  the  Sun,  Eama  is  again  exhorted  to  worship  this 
deity  (vv.  26  ff.):  "'Worship  with  fixed  mind  this  god  of  gods,  the 
lord  of  the  world.  Having  thrice  muttered  this  [hymn],  a  man  shall 
conquer  in  hattles.  27.  In  this  moment,  0  great-armed,  thou  shalt  slay 
Ravaaa.'  Having  thus  spoken,  Agastya  went  as  he  had  come.  28. 
After  hearing  this,  the  vigorous  Rama  became  then  freed  from  griqf ; 
and,  with  well-governed  spirit,  bore  it  in  his  memory.  29.  Beholding 
the  Sun,  and  muttering  this  hymn,  he  attained  the  highest  joy. 
Having  thrice  rinsed  his  mouth,  and  become  pure,  the  hero  took  his 
bow.  30.  Beholding  Eavama  with  gladdened  spirit,  he  approached 
to  vanquish  him;  and  with  great  intentness  became  bent  upon  his 
slaughter.  31.  Then  the  Sun,  with  rejoicing  mind,  exceedingly  exult- 
ing, -looking  upon  Rama,  knowing  the  [approaching]  destruction  of  the 
<3hief  of  the  Rakshasas,  and  standing  in  the  midst  of  the  gods,  uttered 
the  word  '  speed.^  " 

This  extlract,  as  I  have  said  above,  is  entirely  wanting  in  Gorresio's 
edition,  in  which  a  verse  (the  last  of  its  eighty-ninth  section)  corre-  ' 
sponding  with  the  last  in  the  hundred  and  fifth  section  of  the  Bombay 
edition,  is  succeeded  immediately  by  one  (Gorr.  90,  1)  corresponding 
to  the  second  half  of  the  fourth  verse  of  the  hundred  and  seventh 
section  of  the  Bombay  edition.  The  whole  of  the  matter  which  is 
wanting  in  Gorresio  may  be  omitted  without  detriment  to  the  con- 
nexion ;  and  in  fact  the  recurrence  at  the  beginning  of  the  hundred 
and  seventh  section  (Bombay  ed.)  of  an'  expression  repeating  in  sub- 
stance what  had  been  said  at  the  close  of  the  hundred  and  fifth  might 

'  ''  BrahmeianaehyKtmam  srishti-samhara-sthiti-kartftnam  'riaya  avamine  \  "srishti- 
sthity-anta-lcaranm  Brahma-  Vishnu-S'ivatmikam  sa  sanjndm  yati  thagavm  ekah  eva 
Janardanah"  iti  amriteh  \  "To  the  lord  of  Brahma,  Is'ana,  and  Aohyuta,  who  are 
the  authors  of  the  creation,  destruction,  and  continuance  (of  the  world) ;  according 
to  the  Smriti  text:  'The  divine  Janardana  alone  receives  the  conjoint  title  of 
3i?almia,  Vishnu,  and  S'iva,  representing  the  causes  of  the  creation,  continuance  and 
end  (of  the  universe).' "  Such  is  \,\ie  manner  in  which  the  commentator  chooses  to 
explain  away  his  text. 


476  APPENDIX. 

lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  whole  of  the  hundred  and  sixth  section 
was  interpolated.  On  the  other  hand,  it  seems  strange  that  a  passage 
which  appears  to  militate  against  Eama's  divine  character  should  be 
a  later  addition.  The  only  conceivable  motive  for  such  an  interpola- 
tion would  be  to  glorify  the  Sun  by  the  insertion  of  this  hymn  in 
celebration  of  his  praise,  an  object  which  does  not  bear  upon  the  main 
design  of  the  Eamayana. 

The  following  is,  on  the  other  hand,  a  passage  which  may  be  under- 
stood as  ascribing  a  superhuman  nature  to  Eama.  After  Yibhishana 
had  deserted  his  brother  Savana,  and  come  over  to  Eama's  side,  a 
consultation  took  place  among  the  friends  of  the  latter,  whether  the 
deserter  was  deserving  of  confidence  or  not.  Some  regarded  him  with 
suspicion,  but  Eama  himself  was  in  favour  of  receiving  him  with 
open  arms.  In  the  course  of  the  conversation  he  asks  (Tuddha 
Kanda  18,  22  f.,  Bombay  ed.)  :  iSa  dushto  vd'py  adushto  m  Mm  esha 
rcy'amcha/rah  \  sukshmam  a^y  ahitam  Tcartum  mama  ^ahtah  Icathancha/na  \, 
piiaohan  danavan  yakshan  prithwyam  chaiva  rahhasan  |  anguly-agrena 
tan  hanyam  ichhan  hari-ganesvara  \  "Whether  the  Eakshasa  be  good 
or  bad,  what,  even  the  smallest,  injury  can  he  do  to  me  in  any  way  ? 
If  I  wish,  I  can  destroy  Pisachas,  Danavas,  Takshas,  and  Eakshasas 
on  the  earth,  with  the  tip  of  my  finger."  "    This  mode  of  expression 

^*  On  tliis  the  commeutatOT  remarks :  jinena  sanhalpa-siddhir  aUvaram  chihnam 
uktarn]  yady  evam  asmadadi-aangraho  vyarthas  tatra  aha  "iehhann"  iti  \  smsya 
niratisaya-mahimanam  tattvikkm  BrahmO'bhavam  prakaithartum  ichhan  yadi  syam 
tada  tathaiva  kuryam]  samprati  tu  deva-bhavopeta-nija-vildsair  as'eshair  *^abadhyat- 
vam  asya  mayaiva  dattam"  iti  iat-paripalanaya  sva-divya-hhavam  sva-saktya  eva 
antardhaya  manasha-maryadayam  sthitya  tad-bhava-prakatcmaya  eva  S'ta-myoga- 
prayukta-rodana-vad  bhavadrisa-sahaya-ti^elanam  |  vasiuto  na  svatirikta-saha- 
yantarapekshd  mama  \  mamushyanam  samsarce-maryada-JnSpanam  tad-vyavahara- 
phalam  iti  bhavah  \  "  By  this  [phrase  '  with  the  tip  of  my  finger ']  the  accomplish- 
ment of  an  intention  is  declared  to  be  the  mark  of  the  Deity.  If  thus  the  efforts  of 
persons  sueh  as  we  [men]  are,  he  vain,' Рђћ in  regard  to  this  the  author  says,  'If  I  wish.' 
If  I  be  desirous  to  manifest  my  own  surpassing  greatness,  my  real  character  as 
Brahma,  then  I  can  do  this.  But  now,  with  the  view  of  maintaining  my  fiat,  [de- 
clared in  the  words]  '  I  have  conferred  [on  Havana]  indestructibility,'  which  I  issued 
agreeably  to  all  the  sportive  manifestations  of  my  divine  nature,  suppressing  that 
celestial  nature  through  my  own  power  by  remaining  within  the  limits  of  humanity, 
with  the  view  of  displaying  that  character,  I  have  associated  with  myself-  such  allies 
as  you,  (Sugrlva),  just  as  I  wept  for  my  separation  from  Sita.  In  reality  I  have  no 
need  for  any  other  ally  hut  myself.  To  show  to  men  the  limitations  of  worldly 
existence  is  the  fruit  of  my  so  acting.  Such  is  the  purport."  The  meaning  of  this 
passage  is  clear,  though  I  may  not  have  succeeded  in  accurately  rendering  all  the 
phrases  in  it. 


APPENDIX.  477 

ratter  points  to  an  inherent  divine  power.  In  Gorresio's  edition  the 
expression  is  somewhat  different.  Rama  there  says  (Sundara  E.  91, 
3)  that  he  could  destroy  all  those  beings  "forthwith,  and  by  the  power 
of  a  divine  weapon"  {iakto  'ham  sahasd  hantum  divyenastra-lahm  eha), 
which  may  be  understood  of  a  derived  power.  However  this  may  be, 
it  turned  out  upon  trial  that  Eama  was  unable  to  dispose  of  his  enemies 
so  summarily,  as  we  have  seen  above  in  the  case  of  his  conflict  with 
Indrajit  (p.  383  ff.). 

The  termination  of  Kama's  terrestrial  career  is  thus  told  in  sections 
103  ff.  of  the  TJttara  Kanda.^'  Time,  in  the  form  of  an  ascetic,  comes 
to  his  palace-gate  (103,  1  ff.),  and  asks,  as  the  messenger  of  the  great 
Kishi  (Brahma),  to  s^e  Rama.  He  is .  admitted  and  received  with 
honour  (v.  8)^  but  says,  when  asked  what  he  has  to  communicate,  that 
his  message  must  be  delivered  in  private,  and  that  any  one  who  wit- 
nesses the  interview  is  to  be  slain  by  Rama  (v.  11  f.).  Rama  promises 
to  abide  by  this,  informs  Lakshmana  of  it,  and  desires  him  to 
stand  outside  (v.  13  f.).  Time  then  tells  Rama  (104)  that  he  has 
been  sent  by  Brahma  to  say  that  when  he  (Rama,  i.e.  Vishnu),  after 
destroying  the  worlds,  was  sleeping  on  the  ocean,  he  had  formed  him 
(Brahma)  from  the  lotus  springing  from  his  navel,  and  committed  to 
him  the  work  of  creation  (vv.  4-7) ;  that  he  (Brahma)  had  then  en- 
treated Rama  to  assume  the  function  of  Preserver,  and  that  the  latter 
had  in  consequence  become  Vishnu,  being  born  as  the  son  of  Aditi 
(v.  9  f.),  and  had  determined  to  deliver  mankind  by  destroying  Ravana, 
and  to  live  on  earth  ten  thousand  and  ten  hundred  years  (v.  11  f.): 
that  period,  adds  Time,  was  now  on  the  eve  of  expiration  (v.  13),  and 
Rama  could  either,  at  his  pleasure,  prolong  his  stay  on  earth,  or  ascend 
'  to  heaven  and  rule  over  the  gods  (v.  14  f.).  Rama  replies  (v.  18)  that 
he  had  been  bom  for  the  good  of  the  three  worlds,  and  would  now 
return  to  the  place  whence  he  had  come,  as  it  was  his  function  to  fulfil 
the  purposes  of  the  gods.  "While  they  are  speaking,  the  irritable  rishi 
Durvasas '┬░  comes  to  visit  Rama,  and  when  Lakshmana  asks  him  to  wait 
,a  little  insists  on  being  introduced  into  the  presence  of  the  former  im- 
mediately, under  a  threat,  if  refused,  of  cursing  Rama,  his  city,  kingdom, 

*5  j^i  the  references  to  this  Kanda  apply  to  the  Bomhay  edition.    I  have  not  seen 
Gorresio's  edition  of  this  hook. 
56  Compare  p.  196,  ahove. 


478  APPENDIX. 

and  all  his  family  (105,  1  ff.).  Lakshmana,  peferring  to  save  his  kins- 
men, though  knowing  that  his  own  death  must  be  the  consequence 
of  interrupting  the  interview  of  Rama  with  Time,  enters  the  palace,, 
and  reports  the  rishi's  message  to  Kama  (v.  9).  Rama  dismisses  Time, 
comes  out,  and  receives  Durvasas,  and  when  the  sage  has  got  the  food 
he  wished,  and  departed,  Rama  reflects  with  great  distress  on  the 
words  of  Time,  which  require  that  Lakshmana  should  die  (vv.  10-16). 
Lakshmana,  however  (106,  2  ff.),  exhorts  Rama  not  to  grieve,  tut  to 
slay  him,  and  not  break  his  own  promise.  The  counsellors  who  are 
consulted  concurring  in  this  advice  (vv.  5  ff.),  Rama  abandons  Laksh- 
mana, (v.  13)  who  goes  to  the  river  Sarayii,  suppresses  all  his  senses 
{nigrihya  sarva-srotamsi),  and  after  the  gods  had  showered  down  flowers 
upon  him,  is  conveyed  bodily  by  Indra  to  heaven  (w.  15  ff.).  The 
gods  are  delighted  by  the  arrival  of  the  fourth  part  of  Vishnu  (v.  18). 
Rama  then  resolves  to  install  Bharata  as  his  successor,  and  retire  to 
the  forest  and  follow  Lakshmana  (107,  1  ff.).  Bharata,  however, 
refuses  the  succession,  and  determines  to  accompany  his  brother 
(v.  6  f.).  Rama's  subjects  are  filled  with  grief,  and  say  they  also 
will  follow  him  wherever  he  goes  (vv.  9  ff.).  Kusa  and  Lava, 
Rama's  two  sons,*'  are  then  installed  as  kings  of  the  Southern  and 
Northern  Kosalas  (vv.  17  ff.).  Messengers  are  sent  to  S'atrughna, 
the  other  brother,  at  Madhura,  and  he  also  resolves  to  accompany 
Rama  (108,  1-14);  who  at  length  sets  out  in  procession  from  his 
capital  with  all  the  ceremonial  appropriate  to  the  "great  departure" 
(maha-prasthana,  109,  1  ff.),  silent,  indifferent  to  external  objects,  and 
to  ease,  with  S'rl  on  his  ri^ht,  the  goddess  Earth  on  his  left,  Energy  in 
front,  attended  by  all  his  weapons  in  human  shapes,  by  the  Vedas  in 
the  form  of  Brahmans,  by  the  all-protecting  Gayatrl,  the  Omkara,  the 
Yashatkara,  by  rishis,  by  earthly  divinities  {i.e.  Brahmans,  mahuv/rah), 
by  his  women,  female  slaves,  old  and  young,  eunuchs  {varshavmrah), 
and  servants.  Bharata  with  his  wives,  and  S'atrughna,  follow,  together 
with  Brahmans  bearing  the  sacred  fire,  and  accompanied  by  their 
families,  with  the  ministers  of  state,  and  the  whole  of  the  people  of  the 
country,  and  even  with  animals,  and  birds,  etc.,  etc.  Rama,  with  all 
these  attendants,  comes  to  the  banks  of  the  Sarayu  (sect.  110). 
Brahma,  and  all  the  gods,  in  innumerable  celestial  cars,  now  appear, 
"  See  'WUson's  Vishnu  Purana,  vol.  iii.  p.  318  (Dr.  Hall's  ed.). 


APPENDIX.  479 

and  all  the  sky  is  refulgent  with  the  divine  splendour  of  their  ap- 
parition. Pure,  fragrant,  and  delightful  breezes  blow,  a  show;er  of 
flowers  falls,  thrown  by  the  gods.  "While  hundreds  of  musical  instru- 
ments sound,  and  the  air  is  crowded  with  Gandharvas  and  Apsarases, 
Bama  enters  the  waters  of  the  Sarayu ;  and  Brahma  utters  a  voice 
from  the  sky,  saying:  "Approach,  Vishnu;  Eaghava,  thou  hast 
happily  arrived,  with  thy  god-like  brothers.  Enter  whatever  body 
thou  pleasest,  thine  own  body  as  Vishnu,  or  the  eternal  ether.  Por 
thou  art  the  abode  of  the  worlds,  {loha-gatih) :  no  one  comprehends 
thee,  the  inconceivable  and  imperishable,  except  the  large-eyed  Maya, 
thy  primeval  spouse."  Hearing  these  words,  E.ama  enters  the  glory 
of  Vishnu  {Vaishnavam  tejas)  with  his  body  and  his  followers;  and 
is  worshipped  by  the  gods,  rishis,  etc.  He  then  asks  Brahma  to  find 
an  abode  for  the  people  who  had  accompanied  him  from  devotion  to 
his  person,  and  Brahma  appoints  them  a  celestial  residence  accordingly 
(loMn  santanahan}.^^ 

Instead  of  describing  any  such  resumption  of  his  divine  nature,  the 
Mahabharata,  which  in  the  Drona-parvan  2224-2248,  refers  to  Eama 
as  one  of  the  great  kings  of  old,  merely  speaks  in  v.  2246  of  his  going 
to  heaven  with  four  kinds  of  creatures  {chatwrvidhah  prajaTj,  Eamah 
avargam  nitva  ddvam  gatah).  He  is,  however,  celebrated  in  the  most 
hyperbolical  language,  as  where  he  is  said  (v.  2235)  to  "have  trans^ 
cended  all  beings,  rishis,  gods,  and  men  "  {Ati  sarvani  Ihutani  Ramo 
Da&a/rathir  labhau  \  rishinam  devatanaih  cha  mdnusMnam  cha  sarvasah),, 
but  no  reference  is  made  to  his  being  an  incarnation  of  Vishnu.  The 
word  Uvara  applied  to  him  in  v.  2242  may  mean  only  "lord,"  and 
need  not  be  employed  in  the  sense  of  "  god."  (This  passage  is  re- 
ferred to  in  Professor  M.  "Williams's  Indian  Epic  Poetry,  p.  104.) 
The  Eamopakhyana  (see  further  on)  in  the  Mahabharata  does  not 
describe  the  apotheosis  of  Eama  at  all.. 


The  probability  that  many  of  the  verses  in  the  preceding  passages 
which  I  have  above  suspected  to  be  spurious  may  really  be  such,  is 

58  These  worlds  are  explained  by  the  commentator  as  realms  an  abode  in  which 
gradually  leads  to  final  liberation  by  the  attainment  of  Brahma's  heaven  [Kramena 
Brahma-lolca-praptirdvara  mukti-jmakdn).. 


480  APPENDIX. 

greatly  strengthened  by  tie  fact  that  the  commentators  on  the  poem 
themselves  note  yarious  texts  which  they  regarcl  as  interpolated.  Thus 
the  commentator  an  Eishk.  K.,  sect.  43  (Bombay  ed.),  remarks  on  46  ff. : 
Itah  uttaram  kechit  slolcah  "ramante  satatam  tatra  ndribhih  bhdsvara- 
prabhdh"  (v.  50)  ity  antah  Mohah  prakshiptdh  prdcMna-pmtakeshv 
anupalamihad  iti  Satakah  |  "Kataka  (a  previous  commentator)  says 
that  after  this  some  verses  ending  with  the  words  (in  the  fiftieth  verse) 
'  They  sport  there  resplendent,  along  with  their  women,'  are  rejected, 
because  they  are  not  found  in  the  old  copies." 

At  the  end  of  the  twenty-third  section  of  the  TJttara  Kanda  the 
commentator  remarks :  Itah param pancha-sargah prahsh^tah  lodhyah] 
"After  this  five  sections  are  to  be  regarded  as  rejected."  On  these 
sections,  to  which  he  assigns  separate  numbers,  he  gives  no  commentary. 
In  the  first  of  these  sections,  v.  42,  Kansa  is  mentioned  by  anachronism. 

At  the  end  of  the  thirty-seventh  section  of  the  same  book  the  com- 
mentator furnishes  the  following  piece  of  sensible  criticism:  Mad- 
uttaram  Bali-8ugrivotpattitihdso  Rdvamsya  S'vetadvlpa-gamanetihdsas 
oha  katipayaih  sargair  Agastyoktitayd  kvaehit  pustakeshu  driiyante  \  te 
tu  piirva-sargdnte  eva  Agastyasya  svdirama-gamana-kathandd  asangatdh 
Kataka-Tirthddy-anddritatvach  eha  mayd  'pi  na  vydkhydtah  |  "  That 
which  follows Рђћ ^viz.  the  tale  of  the  birth  of  Bali  and  Sugrlva, 
and  the  story  of  Havana's  journey  to  Sveta-dvlpa Рђћ is  found  in  some 
copies,  as  being  related  by  Agastya  in  several  sections.  But  as  these 
sections  are  inconsistent  with  the  account  [given]  at  the  end  of  the 
previous  section  (36,  vv.  51,  58  f.)  of  Agastya's  departure  to  his 
hermitage,  and  have  not  been  received  by  Kataka,  Tirtha,  and  other 
[previous  commentators],  I  also  have  left  them  uncommented."  These 
sections  are  accordingly  without  any  commentary. 

Again,  at  the  close  of  section  59,  he  remarks :  Mad  utta/ram  iva- 
matur  akhydnam  gridhrolukdkhydnancha  kvaehid  drUyate  \  Tirtha- 
Katahddy-asprishtatvena  praksMptam  iti  na  vydkhydtam  |  "The  story 
of  the  dog's  mother  and  that  of  the  vulture  and  owl  which  foUow, 
are  found  in  some  copies : '  but  as  they  are  left  untouched  by  Tirtha, 
Kataka,  and  others,  they  are  rejected,  and  consequently  have  not  been 
explained." 

Prom  these  extracts  it  is'  clear  that  various  passages  which  are  stUl 
preserved  in  the  Eamayana  were  regarded  by  the  commentators  as 


APPENDIX.  481 

spurious  because  they  were  not  to  be  found  in  the  oldest  MSS.  extant 
in  their  day,  or  because  they  contained  something  inconsistent  with  the 
context  in  which  they  occur.  The  judgment  of  these  commentators 
is  no  doubt  correct,  especially  as  they  must  have  been  weU  acquainted 
with  the  habit  which,  we  need  not  hesitate  to  assume,  prevailed  in 
their'  day,  of  interpolating  legendary  works  such  as  the  Puranas 
and  Itihasas,  the  style  of  which,  from  its  simplicity,  offers  the 
greatest  facilities  for  imitation.  But  if  such  interpolation  be  admitted 
by  the  commentators  as  practised  in  their  time,  it  is  natural  to  suppose 
that  it  must  have  been  practised  at  an  earlier  period  also.  And  the 
example  of  the  Mahabharata  confirms  this  supposition. 

After  reviewing  most  of  the  passages,  which  I  have  cited  above,  in 
which  Eama's  divine  character  is  alluded  to,  as  they  are  given  in  his 
own  edition,  and,  in  addition,  the  section  which  I  have  cited  in 
p.  180  ff.,*'  Signor  Gorresio  remarks  as  foUows  (vol.  v.,  Preface, 
p.  xlvii.  f.) :  "What  are  we  to  conclude  from  all  this?  Notwith- 
standing the  citations  adduced,  I  would  not  yet  venture  to  pronounce 
a  definitive  judgment  on  this  question"  (whether  the  idea  of  the  in- 
carnation of  Yishnu  in  Eama  was  an  original  part  of  the  conception 
of  the  poem,  or  interpolated).  "  The  passages  quoted  only  prove  that 
the  interpolation,  if  it  be  such,  has  been  made  with  great  study  and 
much  art.  But  in  order  thoroughly  to  elucidate  this  question,  we 
must  have  recourse  to  other  documents,  and  seek  for  other  proofs  and 
indications  than  the  poem  itself  supplies.  Our  sentence,  therefore, 
remains  suspended." 


The  Mahabharata  also  contains  a  history  of  Kama,  (Eamopakhyana) 
which  is  told  to  Tudhishthira  by  the  sage  Markandeya,  in  the  Yana- 
parvan,  vv.  15872-16602.  In  this  episode  it  is  briefly  related  (v. 
15878  f.)  that  Dasaratha  had  four  sons,  born  of  his  three  queens. 

59  On  this  passage  lie  observes  (p.  xlvii.) :  "  Among  the  names  here  assigned  to 
Vishnu  some  of  a  sufficiently  suspicious  character  are  found,  such  as  that  of  Krishna, 
which  I  do  not  recollect  to  have  discovered  in  any  other  part  of  the  poem.  Besides, 
this  chapter  has  no  close  bond  to  connect  it  with  the  context,  and  might  be  removed 
without  the  least  injury  to  the  poem." 

VOL.  rv.  "'Рђб 


482  APPENDIX. 

The  birtli  and  history  of  Ravana  and  his  brothers  are  described  in 
much  greater  detail  (vv.  15881-15928),  and  many  particulars  are 
given  which  do  not  occur  in  the  earlier  part  of  the  Eamayana,  though 
the  Uttara  Kanda  contains  a  similar  account.  According  to  t^e 
episode  in  the  Mahabharata,  Brahma  had  a  mental  son  Pula'stya,  who 
again  had  a  son  Gaviputra  Vai^ravana  (v.  15883).  The  latter  deserted 
his  father  and  went  to  Brahma,  who  as  a  reward  made  him  immortal  and 
appointed  him  to  be  the  god  of  riches,  ;mth  Lanka  for  his  capital,  and 
the  car  Pushpaka  for  his  vehicle  (vv.  15886  ff.).  His  father,  Pulastya, 
however,  being  incensed  at  this  desertion  of  himself,  reproduced  the 
half  of  himself  in  the  form  of  Vi^ravas,  vv.  15884  {tasya  kopat  pita 
rajan  sasarjatmanam  atmana  \  sa  jajne  Visrwvah  nama  tasydtmardhena 
vai  dvij'ah  \  and  again,  v.  15889  :  Pulastyasya  tu  yah  krodhad  a/rdhadeho 
'bhavad  munih  \  Vikrwoah  nama  ityadi).  This  Vi^ravas  looked  upon 
Vaisravana  with  indignation.  The  latter  strove  to  pacify  his  father  " 
(v.  15890  ff.),  and  with  this  view  gave  him  three  elegant  Eakshasis 
to  attend  on  him :  Pushpotkata,  who  had  two  sons,  Ravana  and 
Kumbhakarna;  MalinI,  who  bore  Vibhishana;  and  Raka,  who  bore 
Khara  and  S'iirpanakha.  These  sons  were  all  valiant,  skilled  in  the 
Veda,  and  observers,  of  religious  rites ;  but  perceiving  the  prosperity 
of  Vaisravana,  they  were  filled  with  jealousy.  They  accordingly 
(except  Ehara  and  S'iirpanakha)  began  to  practise  austerities  to  pro- 
pitiate Brahma,  and  at  the  end  of  a  thousand  years  Ravana  cut  off 
his  own  head  and  threw  it  as  an  oblation  into  the  fire  (v.  15908). 
Brahma  then  appeared  to  stop  their  austerities  and  offer  them  boons 
(except  that  of  immortality).*'  He  ordained  that  Ravana  should  have 
heads  and  shapes  at  will,  and  should  be  invincible,  except  by  men ; 
that  Xumbhakarna,  who  was  influenced  by  the  quality  of  darkness 
[tamas),  should,  according  to  his  request,  enjoy  long  sleep*'  {sa  vavre 

*"  Vi^ravas  is  here  meant,  aUhough  according  to  v.  15883  S.  Pulastya  reproduced 
himself  as  Vir'ravas  after  the  birth  of  Vaisravana,  and  in  consequence  of  the  latter 
having  deserted  his  father  in  his  original  form  as  Pulastya.  Vais'ravana  means  the 
son  of  Vis'ravas,  and  in  v.  15925,  Vais'ravana  (Kuvera)  is  said  to  be  the  brother  of 
Vibhishana,  who  must  have  been  the  son  of  Vi^ravas,  as  his  brother  Eavana  is  called 
in  V.  15930. 

┬Ф'  See  above,  p.  223  and  p.  488,  below. 

*'  This  disagree^  with  the  statement  in  the  ESmayana  (quoted  above,  p.  462)  that 
he  was  doomed  to  long  sleep  as  a  curse. 


AtPENDIX.  4┬Ф3 

mahatlm  nidrdih  tamasa  grada-chetanah,  v.  15916).  Vibhishana  asks 
that  even  in  the  greatest  misfortunes  he  may  never  meditate  any  un- 
righteousness, and  that  the  Brahman's  -weapon  may  become  manifest 
to  him  without  being  learned.*^  Brahma  promises  him  immortality. 
Having  obtained  the  power  above  described,  Ravana  expels  Vai^ravana 
(Kuvera)  from  Lanka  (v.  15920).  The  righteous  'Vibhishana  follows 
his  brother^*  (v.  15925)  Kuvera,  who  had  retired  to  Gandhamadana 
(v.  15921).  Eavana  having  been  installed  as  king,  and  begun  to 
exercise  his  power  tyrannically,  the  rishis  resort  for  deliverance 
to  Brahma  (v.  15929  ff.),  who-  promises  that  as  Eavana  could  not  be 
killed  either  by  gods  or  Asuras,  the  four-arm^d  Vishnu,  the  chief  of 

*'  AsiksMtanoha  bkagavan  Bmhmastram  pratibhatu  me  \  See  the  second  volume 
of  tHs  work,  2nd  ed.,  p.  416,  where  the  sense  of  the  line  is  not  correctly  rendered. 
See  the  note  on  a  similar  line  from  the  Uttara  Eanda  of  the  Bamayana  below  in 
p.  489.  In  T.  15897  Vibhishaua  is  said  to  be  the  handsomest  of  Pulastya's  sons 
(riipena  sarvebhyo  'bhpadhikah),  and  a  protector  of  righteonsness,  and  practiser  of 
religious  rites  [dharmu-gopta  kriyaratih). 

┬Ф*  In  v.  16157  f.  Vibhishana  is  said  to  dwell,  shadied  by  a  white  umbrella,  and  with 
white  garlands,  on  the  S'vetaparvata,  or,  "  white  mountain,"  attended  by  his  four 
counsellors,  and  apart  from  his  disreputable  brothers  Kumbhakarna,  etc.,  who,  naked, 
with  dishevelled  hair,  and  red  garlands,  frequented  the  south.  In  v.  16314  f.  he  is 
said  to  join  Rama,  and  it  is  n6t  mentioned  whence  he  comes;  but  as  his  treachery  is  at 
first  suspected  by  Sugriva,  it  might  appear  to  be  implied  that  he  came  from  Lanka,  as 
is  expressly  related  in  the  Ram.,  vi.  17,  1,  Bombay  ed.  In  Gorr.  ed.  (Sundara  Eanda, 
89,  1-43)  forty-two  verses  are  introduced  between  the  two  lines  which  make  up  the 
first  verse  of  the  l7th  section  of  book  sixth  in  the  Bombay  ed.  That  verse  states  that 
after  addressing  some  harsh  words  to  Ravana,  Vibhishana  came  immediately  to  Rama. 
Gorresio's  text  adds  that  after  leaving  his  brother,  Vibhishana  first  tells  his  mother 
all  that  had  happened,  and  then  went  through  the  air  to  Kailasa,  the  residence  of 
Vais'ravana  (Kuvera,  v.  4).  Before  his  arrival,  however,  Mahadeva  had  gone  with 
TJma  and  his  attendants  to  the  abode  of  Kuvera  (vv.  6  ffi),  had  dismounted  from  his 
bull,  and  entered  the  assembly ;  when  the  two  gods  embraced  each  other,  sat  down, 
and  began  to  play  at  dice.  At  this  conjuncture  Mahadeva  sees  Vibhishana  approach- 
ing, and  tells  Kuvera  that  he  has  come  to  seeik  his  protection ;  but  that  he  ought  to 
go  to  Rama,  who  would  install  him  as  monarch  of  the  Rakshasas  (vv.  11  ┬БF.).  Vibhi- 
shana arrives,  kneels  and  touches  the  ground  with  his  forehead,  when  the  two  gods 
give  him  the  advice  which  Mahadeva  had  proposed  (vv.  21  ff.).  Vibhishana  re- 
mains thoughtful  (v.  36).  Mahadeva  again  addresses  him  (v.  37),  and  tells  him 
to  "rise  and  resort  to  the  ancient  lord,  the  imperishable,  the  support  of  all  beings, 
the  eternal,  the  irresistible,  the  treasury  of  righteousness,  the  refuge  of  those  who 
seek  him,  the  root  of  the  whole  world,  Rama"  (v.  39)  {Tasmad  uttishfha  gachha 
tvam puranam  prabhum.  avyayam \  adharaik  sarva-bhutamm  sasvatam  niravagraham | 
40.  Sa  hi  dharma-mdhanaih  cha  gatir  gatimatam  varah  \  kritsnasya  jagato  mulam 
taamM gachhasva  Rnghmam).  Vibhishana  hereupon  rises,  makes  obeisance  t┬Ф  the 
two  gods,  and  goes  to  Rama  through  the  sky  (vv.  41  AT.). 


484  APPENDIX. 

Рќаwarriors,  should,  by  !his  (Brahma's)  appointment,  descend  to  earth  for 
his  destruction  {tad-a/rtham  avatlrno  'sau  man-niyogaeh  ohfdwrhhijah  \ 
Vishnuh  prahwratam  ireshthah  sa  tent  karma  harishyati).  No  account 
is,  however,  given  of  the  way  in  which  Vishnu  was  to  become  in- 
carnate in  one  or  more  of  the  sons  of  Dasaratha ;  or  how  this  was  ac- 
oomplished.  Brahma  also  desired  Indra  and  the  other  gods  to  be  bom 
on  earth,  and  beget  on  the  she-bears  and  she-monkeys  sons  who  should 
assist  Vishnu,  which  they  accordingly  did.  He  also  gave  injunctions 
and  instructions  to  a  Gandharvi  called  Dandubhl,  who  was  born  on 
earth  as  the  hunchbacked  Manthara,  and  stirred  up  enmity  by  urging 
Kaikeyi  to  claim  the  succession  to  Da^aratha's  throne  for  her  own  son 
Bharata  (vv.  15934  f.,  and  15960  ff.). 

Whether  the  portion  of  the  episode  which  relates  the  earlier  history 
of  Eavana,  and  the  means  adopted  by  Brahma  for  his  destruction, 
formed  an  original  part  of  the  poem,  I  need  .not  attempt  to  decide ; 
but  an  allusion  is  afterwards  made  in  a  later  part  of  it  to  the  monkeys 
of  Eama's  army  having  been  begotten  by  the  gods  (v.  1 6309),  where 
Sagara,  the  Ocean,  who  had  appfeared  to  Eama,  is  introduced  as  saying: 
Asti  tatra  Nolo  ndmo  vanarah  Ulpi-sammatah  \  Tvashtur  devasya  tanayo 
balavdn  Vi&vaka/rmmah  \  "There  is  there  a  monkey  called  Kala,  ap- 
.  proved  by  artizans,  the  strong  son  of  the  god  Tvashtri  Vi^vakarman." 

The  maia  incidents  in  this  episode  agree,  as  far  as  I  have  examiued 
them,  with  those  of  the  Eamayana :  though  there  are  some  minor 
points  in  which  there  is  a  difference  between  the  two.  Thus  the 
larger  poem  appears  (as  far  as  I  have  looked  into  it)  to  say  nothing  of 
Manthara  being  the  incarnation  of  a  Grandharvl,  though  this  is  alluded 
to  by  the  commentator  in  ii.  7,  1  of  the  Bombay  edition,  in  these 
words :  Atha  SUayah  JLankd-pwra-pramkam  vind  Hdvam-hadhasyaiak- 
yatayd  tat-siddhaye  devaih  preritdydh  krita-kuhjd-veshaydh  Mantharaydh 
Rdmdhldsheka-vighna'pravrittim  .....  vaktum  updkramate  \  "Ifow 
since  Eavana  could  not  be  killed  unless  Sita  entered  into  Lanka, Рђћ with 
a  view  to  the  accomplishment  of  that,  he  (the  poet)  begins  to  relate 
how  Manthara,  who  had  been  sent  by  the  gods,  and  had  taken  the 
disguise  of  a  hunchback,  threw  obstacles  in  the  way  of  Eavana's  in- 
auguration,  etc."  Again,  as  we  have  already  seen,  long  periods  of 
sleep  are  said,  in  the  larger  poem,  to  have  been  inflicted  by  Brahma  on 
Kumbhakarna  as  a  curse,  but  in  the  episode  to  have  been  granted  as  a 


APPENDIX.  485 

boon.'"  The  account  whicb  will  be  given  below  from  the  Mahabharata 
is  a  sort  of  reconciliation  of  these  two  statements.  Another  discrepancy 
noticed  by  the  commentator  has  been  already  cited  above,  p.  415, 
note  19S. 

In  the  sequel  of  the  story,  as  given  in  the  Mahabharata,  it  is  said 
that,  after  the  destruction  of  Eavana,  and  the  appearance  of  the  gods 
to  persuade  Eama  to  take  back  his  wife  Sita,  Brahma  offered  Eama 
any  boons  he  migkt  choose,  and  that  Eama  accordingly  desired  that 
he  might  continue  steadfast  in  righteousness,  and  unoonquered  by  his 
enemies ;  and  solicited  the  resurrection  of  the  monkeys  who  had  been 
killed  by  the  Eakshasas  (vv.  16570  ff.).  TKe  poet,  who  represents 
Eama  as  consenting  to  receive  these  boons  from  Brahma)  could  scarcely 
have  regarded  him  as  the  Supreme  Spirit,  as  he  is  declared  in  some 
parts  of  the  Eamayana  to  have  been  (see  above,  p.  180  ffi.).  The  last 
act  of  his  which  is  described  (vv.  16600  f.)  is  the  celebration  of  ten 
asvamedhas.     No  reference  is  made  to  his  death. 

As  I  have  noticed  above,  the  TJttara  Kanda  of  the  Eamayana  contains 
an  account  of  the  birth,  and  a  sketch  of  the  earlier  history,  of  Eavana 
and  his  brothers,  which  varies  in  some  particulars  from  the  narrative 
in  the  Mahabharata.  We  are  there  told  how  after  Eama  had  returned 
to  Ayodhya,  and  taken  possession  of  the  throne,  the  rishis  assembled 
from  the  east,  west,  north,  and  south,  to  greet  him  (1,  1  ffi.),  and 
Agastya,  in  answer  to  his  questions,  recounted  many  particulars  re- 
garding his  old  .enemies.  In  the  Krita  Tuga  (or  Golden  Age)  the 
austere  and  pious  Brahman-rishi  Pulastya,  a  son  of  Brahma,  and  who 
was  like  his  father,  being  teased  with  thp  vicinity,  sports,  singing,  and 
dancing  of  different  damsels,  who  interrupted  his  austerities,**  pro- 
claimed that  any  one  of  them  whom  he  again  saw  near  his  hermitage, 
on  the  side  of  Mount  Meru,  should  become  pregnant.    The  others  kept 


8*  The  story  of  Eam'blia,  which  is  related  in  the  passage  referred  toabove  (461  f.),  is 
in  this  episode  briefly  sketched  in  these  words  (v.  1 61 5 1  ff.) :  Nalahumra-Bapena  ralcshita 
ky  aai  fiandini  \  iapto  hy  esha  pwa  papo  badhum  SambhSm  paramrisham  \  na  s'almoty 
avasam  narm  upaitum  ajitmdriyah  \  "Thou  art  protected,  charming  one,  {i.e.  Sita) 
by  the  curse  of  Kalakuvara.  For  this  wicked  being  of  unrestrained  passions  (Eavana), 
having  formerly  been  cursed  when  insulting  his  (N.'s)  wife  Eambha,  is  unable  to  ap- 
proach a  helpless  woman."     See  also  v.  16563  f. ;  and  p.  461  f.,  above. 

66  "Not  intentionally,"  says  the  commentator  on  v.  8,  "but  lito' (dried)  grass  and 
fire  "  (trinagni-nyayena  na  tu  buddhi-purvam)^ 


486  APPENDIX. 

at  a  distance,  but  tte  threat  had  not  been  heard  by  the  daughter  of 
the  royal-rishi  Trinavindu,  who  one  day  came  into  Pulastya's  neigh- 
bourhood, and  her  pregnancy  was  the  result  (sect.  2,  w.  14  ff.).  After 
her  return  home,  her  father,  seeing  her  condition,  took  her  to  Pulastya, 
who  accepted  her  as  his  wife,  and'  she  bore  a  son  who  received  the 
name  of  Visravas  (v.  32).  This  son  was,  like  his  father,  an  austere 
and  religious  sage.  He  married  the  daughter  of  the  muni  Bharadvaja, 
who  bore  him  a  son,  to  whom  Erahma  gave  the  name  of  Vaisravana= 
Kuvera  (sect.  3,  vv.  1  ff.).  The  latter  performed  austerity  for  thousands 
of  years,  when  he  obtained  from  Brahma  as  a  boon,  that  he  should  b& 
one  of  the  guardians  of  the  world  [along  with  Indra,  Varuna,  and 
Tama]  and  the  god  of  riches  (vv.  11  ff.).  He  afterwards  consulted 
his  father  Visravas  about  an  abode,  and,  at  his  suggestion,  took  posses- 
sion of  the  city  of  Lanka,  which  had  formerly  been  built  by  Yisva- 
karman  for  the  Eakshasas,  but  had  been  abandoned  by  them  through 
fear  of  Vishnu,  and  was  at  that  time  unoccupied  (vv.  23  ff.).  Bama 
then  (sect.  4)  says  he  is  surprised  to  hear  that  Lanka  had  formerly 
belonged  to  the  Eakshasas,  as  he  had  always  understood  that  they 
were  the  descendants  of  Pulastya,  and  now  he  learns  that  they  had 
also  another  origin  (v.  4.-  Pulastychvamsad  udlhutah  rdkshasah  iti  nah 
irutam  \  idanim  anyatas  ohapi  samhhcmah  Mrtitas  tvaya).  He  there- 
fore asks  who  was  their  ancestor,  and  what  fault  they  had  committed 
that  they  were  chased  away  by  Vishnu.  Hearing  the  polished 
(samskwrdlankritam)  "  words  of  Bama,  Agastya  replies  ( w.  9  ff.)  that 
when  Brahma  created  the  waters,  he  formed  certain  beings Рђћ some  of 
whom  received  the  name  of  Eakshasas Рђћ to  guard  them.'"  The  first 
Bakshasa  kings  were  Heti  and  Praheti  (v.  14).  Heti  married  Bhaya, 
the  sister  of  Kala  (Time).  She  bore  him  a  son  Vidyutkesa  (v.  17),  who 
in  his  turn  took  for  his  wife  Salankatankata,  the  daughter  of  Sandhya 
(v.  21).  She  bore  him  a  son  Sukesa  (v.  32),  whom  she  abandoned 
(y.  24),  but  he  was  seen  by  S'iva,  as  he  was  passing  by  with  his  wife 
Parvati  (v.  27  ff.),  who  made  the  child  as  mature  as  his  mother,  and 
immortal,  and  gave  him  a  city  which  moved  through  the  ether.  Parvati, 
too,  gave  as  a  boon  to  the  Rakshasa  women  the  power  of  immediate 
conception  and  parturition,  and  to  their  children  instant  maturity  equal 

"  See  the  second  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  157-169. 
68  See  Note  A.,  p  439. 


APPENDIX.  487 

to  that  of  their  mothers  (v.  30  f.).  Suke^a  married  a  Gandharvi  called 
Devavatl  (sect.  5,  v.  3),  who  bore'three  sons,  Malyavat,  Sumali,  and  Mali 
(v.  6).  These  sons  practised  intense  austerities  (v.  9),  when  Brahma 
appeared  (v.  12),  and  conferred  on  them  invincibility  and  long  life  (15). 
They  then  harassed  the  gods  and  Asuras  (16).  Vi^vakarman,  at  their 
request,  gave  them  a  city,  Lanka,  on  the  mountain  Trikuta,  on  the 
shore  of  the  southern  ocean,  which  he  had  built  (vv.  18  ff.).  They 
marry  the  three  daughters  of  the  Gandharvl  Narmada.  Malyavat's 
wife,  Sundari,  bears  Vajramushti,  Virupaksha,  Durmukha,  Suptaghna, 
Tajnakopa,  Matta,  Unmatta,  and  one  daughter  Anala  (v.  35  ff.). 
Sumali's  wife,  EetumatI,  bears  Prahasta,  Kampana,  Vikata,  Kalika- 
mukha,  Dhumraksha,  Dand,a,  Supar^va,  Sanhradi,  Praghasa,  Bha- 
sakarna,  and  four  daughters,  Eaka,  Pushpotkata,  Eaikasi,  and 
KumbhinasI  (vv.  39  ff.).  Mali's  wife,  Vasuda,  bore  Anala,  Nila, 
Hara,  and  Sampati  (v.  43).  The  three  Eakshasas,  Malyavat  and  his 
two  brothers,  with  their  sons,  continue  to  oppress  the  gods,  rishis, 
etc.  (v.  44),  who  (sect  6,  v.  Iff.)  in  consequence  resort  for  aid  to 
Mahadeva,  "  the  creator  and  destroyer  of  the  world,  the  unborn,  im- 
perceptible, the  support  of  all  worlds"  {Jagat-srishty-anta-hwtaram 
cyam  avyahta-rupinam  \  ddharam  sarva-bhutanam),  who,  having  regard 
to  his  protege  Sukesa  (the  father  of  Malyavat,  etc.,  see  above),  says 
that  he  cannot  kill  the  Eakshasas  (v.  10);  but  advises  the  suppliants 
to  go  to  Vishnu,  which  they  do  (v.  12),  and  receive  from  him  a  promise 
that  he  will  destroy  their  enemies  (v.  21).  One  of  the  three  Eakshasa 
kings,  hearing  of  this,  informs  his  brothers,  and,  after  consultation 
(v.  23  ff.),  they  proceed  to  heaven  to  attack  the  gods  (v.  46),  unterrified 
by  the  portents  which  were  manifested  (vv.  53  ff.).  Vishnu  prepares 
to  meet  them  (v.  63).  The  battle  is  described  in  the  seventh  section. 
The  Eakshasas  are  defeated  by  Vishnu  with  great  slaughter,  and  driven 
back  to  Lanka,  one  of  their  leaders,  Mali,  being  slain  (w.  42  ff.). 
Malyavat  remonstrates  with  Vjshnu,  who  was  assaulting  the  rear  of  the 
fugitives,  on  his  unwarriorlike  conduct  {na  j'dntshe  kshatram  dharmam 
pmatanam),^^  and  wishes  to  renew  the  combat  (sect.  8,  v.  3  ff.). 

f 
^'  The  next  verse  (4)  adds :  Fmamrmkha-vadham  papam  yah  karoti  surehara  \  sa 
hanta  na  gatah  avargam  Uhhate  punya-Jcarmarmm  \    "  The  slayer  who  -wickedly 
slaughters  foes  who  have  turned  their  backs,  after  his  death  does  not  attain  to  the 
heaven  of  the  meritorious." 


488  APPENDIX. 

Vishnu  replies  that  he  must  fulfil  his  promise  to  the  gods  by  slaying 
the  Eakshasas,  and  that  he  would  destroy  them  even  if  they  fled  to 
Patala  (v.  7  ff.).  The  battle  is  renewed,-  but  Malyavat  and  Sumali 
are  driven  into  Lanka  (v.  20),  and  being  unable  to  withstand  Vishnu, 
at  length  retire  to  Patala  (v.  22).  These  Eakshasas,  Agastya  says, 
were  more  powerful  than  Eavana,  and  could  only  be  destroyed  by  Nara- 
yana,  i.e.  by  Eama  himself,  the  eternal  indestructible  god  (v.  24  ff.). 
Sumali  with  his  family  lived  for  a  long  time  in  Patala,  while  Kuvera 
dwelt  in  Lanka  (v.  29).  In  section  9  it  is  related  that  Sumali  once 
happened  to  visit  the  earth,  when  he  observed  Kuvera  going  in  his 
chariot  to  see  his  father  Visravas.  This  leads  him  to  consider  how  he 
might  restore  his  own  fortunes.  He  consequently  desires  his  daughter 
Kaikasi  to  go  and  woo  Viiravas  (v.  12),  who  receives  her  graciously 
(vv.  18  ff.).  She  becomes  the  mother  of  the  dreadful  Eavana  (v.  29) 
whose  birth  was  succeeded  by  portents,  of  the  huge  Kumbhakaina 
(v.  34),  of  S'urpanakha,  and  of  the  righteous  Vibhishana,  who  was 
the  last  son  (v.  SS),'"  and  whose  nativity  was  followed  by  a  shower  of 
celestial  flowers,  by  the  sound  of  celestial  drums,  and  exclamations 
of  delight  in  the  air  (v.  36).  These  children  grow  up  in  the  forest. 
Kumbhakarna  goes  about  eating  rishis  (v.  38).  Vibhishana  lives  in  the 
practice  of  duty,  the  study  of  the  Veda,  and  temperance,  and  controls 
his  senses  (v.  39).  Kuvera  comes  to  visit  his  father  (v.  40),  when 
Kaikasi  takes  occasion  to  urgei  her  son  Eavana  to  strive  to  become  like 
his  brother  (Kuvera)  in  splendour.  This  Eavana  promises  to  do  (v.  45). 
He  then  goes  to  the  hermitage  of  Gokarna  with  his  brothers  to  perform 
austerity  (v.  47).  In  section  10  their  austere  observances  are  described. 
After  a  thousand  years'  penance,  Eavana  throws  one  of  his  heads  as  an 
offering  into  the  fire  (v.  10).  He  performs  this  oblation  nine  times 
at  equal  intervals,  and  is  about  to  do  it  the  tenth  time,  when  Brahma 
appears  (v.  12  ff.),  and  offers  a  boon,  Eavana  asks  immortality,  but 
is  refused  (17).  He  then  asks  that  he  may  be  indestructible  by  all 
creatures  more  powerful  than  men,  etc. ;  which  boon  is  accorded  by 
Brahma  (v.  22),  together  with  the  recovery  of  all  the  heads  he  had 
sacrificed,  and  the  power  of  assuming  any  shape  he  pleased.     Vibhl- 

Рёб  This  account  varies  from  that  of  the  Mahabharata  (above,  p.  482),  according  to 
which  the  mothers  are  different,  and  Khara  (who  is  not  named  here)  is  also  a  son  of 
Vis'ravas. 


APPENDIX.  489 

shana  (nearly  as  in  the  Matabharata,  see  above,  p.  483)  asks  as  his 
boon  (v.  30  f.)  that  "even  amid  the  greatest  calamities  he  may  think 
only  of  righteousness,  and  that  the  Brahman's  weapon  may  become 
manifest  to  him  without  being  learned ;  and  that  in  every  stage  of 
life  his  aims  may  be  righteous"  {paramapad-gatasifapi  dharme  mama 
matir  hhavet  \  aUkshitaneha  brahmasiram  hhagavan  pratihhdtu  we"  | 
ya  yd  me  jdyate  luddhir  yeshu  yeshv  akrameshv,  cha  \  so,  sa  hhcwatu 
dharmishtha  tam  tarn  dharmam  cha  palaye).  The  god  grants  his  re- 
quest, and  adds  the  gift  of  immortality.  When  Brahma  is  about  to  offer 
a  boon  to  Kumbhakarna,  the  gods  interpose  (v.  35  ff.),  as,  they  say, 
he  had  eaten  seven  Apsarases  and  ten  followers  of  Indra,  besides  rishis 
and  men;  if  he  has  done  this  without  receiving  any  boon  from  Brahma, 
he  would,  if  he  should  obtain  such  a  favour,  devour  the  three  worlds ; 
and  they  end  by  suggesting  that  under  the  guise  of  a  boon  stupefaction 
Рќаshould  be  inflicted  on  him  (v.  39).  Brahma  thinks  on  Sarasvati,  who 
arrives  (v.  40),  and  by  Brahma's  command  (v.  42.  Vani  tvam  Rahha- 
sendrasya  hhava  vag-devatepsitd)  enters  into  Kumbhakarna,  that  she 
may  speak  for  him.  Under  this  influence  he  asks,  when  desired  to 
choose  a  favour,  that  he  may  receive  the  boon  of  sleeping  for  many 
years,  which  is  granted  (v.  45)."  When,  however,  Sarasvati  has  left 
him,  and  he  recovers  his  own  consciousness,  he  perceives  that  he  has 

"  The  commentator  explains  these  last  words  thus :  Asikshitam  sad-gurupadeiam 
vinaplty  arthah  \  brahmastram  irahma-vidya  \  etad  varanam  asesJia-brahma-vidya- 
aiddhi-pratibandhalca-nivrittaye  \  "  Unlearnt,  that  is,  [may  it  appear  to  me]  even 
without  the  instruction  of  a  good  teacher.  The  Brahman's  weapon  is  the  science  of 
Brahma  (or  of  the  veda) .  This  choice  of  a  boon  seeks  the  removal  of  all  obstacles 
to  the  attainment  of  divine  knowledge."  The  commentator  also  says  that  by  dharme 
("righteousness")  in  the  first  line  is  meant  Narayana  (Vishnu),  according  to  the 
saying,  'Kama  is  the  incarnate  righteousness' :  as  looking  to  what  follows,  the  passage 
would  otherwise  be  tautological  ("  Dharme  "  Narayane  matir  Ihavet  \  "JSamo  vigra- 
havan  dharmah"  ity  ukter  atra  dharma-padena  Narayanah]  anyatha  "sa  sa  ihavatu 
dharmishtha"  ity  anena paunaruJctyam  syat  \ 

'^  The  commentator  remarks  here :  JEvam  iti  \  atra  shan-masad  arvak  jagaranam 
na  iti  niyamah  \  tad-adhika  'pi  nidra  tu  bhavaty  eva  iti  vara-svarupam  bodhyam  \  atah 
eva  shan-masan  svapiti  iti  purvam  Vibhishamktya  varshany  anekani  iti  Ktmibha- 
kamoktya  cha  purvoktasya  na  virodhah  |  "  In  these  words  of  Brahma  (v.  46)  there 
IS  no  condition  that  Kumbhakarna  should  wake  after  six  months,  but  it  is  understood 
as  the  nature  of  the  boon  that  he  might  sleep  for  even  a  longer  time.  "Wherefore, 
although  it  was  formerly  said  by  VibhTshana  that  'he  sleeps  six  months,'  and 
Kumbhakarna  here  speaks  of  sleeping  many  years,  there  is  no  discrepancy  between 
the  latter  and  the  former." 


490  '  APPENDIX. 

been  deluded  (v.  47).  Kuvera,  on  the  demand  of  Eavana,  and  by 
his  father's  advice,  gives  up  the  city  of  Lanka  to  Eavana  (sect.  11, 
V.  39  ff.). 

The  Uttara  Kanda,  sect.  36,  vv.  44  flf.,  contains  in  its  description  of 
the  monkey  Hanumat's  history  the  following  testimony  to  his  literary 
merits:  44.  Asau  punar  vydhmranam  griMshyan  suryonmukhah  prashtu- 
manah  Icapindrah  \  udyad-girer  asta-girim  jagama  grantham  mahad 
dharayan  a/prameyah  \  45.  Sa-sHtra-vritty-a/rtha-padam  mahdriham  sa- 
aangraham  sidhyati  vai  hapmdrah  \  na  hy  asya  kaichit  sadriio  'sti  ^dstre 
vaisarade  chhanda-gatau  tathaiva  \  sarvasu  vidyasu  tapo-vidhane  praspar- 
dhate  ''yam  hi  gurnm  suranam  ]  44.  "Again  the  chief  of  monkeys 
(Hanumat),  measureless,  seeking  to  acquire  grammar,  looking  up  to 
the  sun,  bent  on  inquiry,  went  from  the  mountain  where  the  sun  rises 
to  that  where  he  sets,  apprehending  the  mighty  ooUection Рђћ (45)  viz. 
the  aphorisms  (sutra),  the  commentary  {vritti),  the  varttika  {artha- 
pada),  the  Mahartha,  and  the  Sangraha  [of  Vyadi].  The  chief  of 
monkeys  is  perfect,  no  one  equals  him  in  the  sastras,  in  learning,  and 
in  ascertaining  the  sense  of  the  Scripture,  [or  in  moving  at  wUl]. 
In  all  sciences,  in  the  rules  of  austerity,  he  rivals  the  preceptor  of 
the  gods." 

The  following'  is  the  commentary  on  the  above  passage :  TTdyad-girer 
vda/ya-girer  mahad  granthafh  dharayan  wrthatah  pdthatai  cha  grihnan  \ 
dharayan  aprameyah  iti  nud-ahhdva  arshah  \  surya-sdmmukhyartham 
tdvad gamanam \  45.  Ko  'san  granthas  tatrdha  " sa-sutra"  iti  \  sutram 
ashtddhydyi-lahshamm  \  vrittis  tdtkdlika-sutra-vrittih  \  artha-padalh 
sutrdrtha-hodhaka-padavad  varttikam  mahdrtham  mahdbhdshyam  Pa- 
tanjali-kritam  |  "  m-sangraham  "  Vyddi-krita-sangrahdkhya-grantha- 
sahitam  |  "  sidhyati  vai "  siddho  lltavati  Sdstrdntareshv  apity  arthah  \ 
tad  evdha  \  na  hy  asya  sadrisah  sdstre  kahhit  "  chJmnda-gatau" purvo- 
ttara-mtmdmsd-mukhena  veddrtha-nirnaye  "  vaiidrade "  vaidushye  | 
viiishya  na/oama-vydka/rana-ka/rtd  Hanumdn  iti  cha  prasiddhir  iti 
Katakah  \  "From  the  mountain  where  the  sun  rises,  'holding,' 
apprehending  in  sense  and  in  text  '  the  great  collection.'  The 
absence  of  the  reduplicated  n  in  dharayan  aprameyah  is  vedic 
{jdrsha\  He  went  to  face  the  sun.  45.  In  the  words  'with  the 
sutras,'  etc.,  ,he  describes  what  the  book  was.  The  sutras  mean 
the  eight  books  of  Panini  (ashiddhydyi).     The  vritti  is  the  contem- 


,    APPENDIX.  491 

poraneous  gloss  on  the  sutras  {autra-vritti).  The  wrtha-pada  is  the 
varttiha,  containing  sentences  explaining  the  sense  of  the  sutras ;  the 
Mahartha  is  the  Mahabhashya  composed  by  Patanjali.  '  With  the 
sangraha '  means  with  the  book  called  Sangraha,  composed  by  Yyadi. 
*  He  is  perfect '  means  he  excels  in  other  sastras  also,  as  the  author 
goes  on  to  say:  'for  no  one  is  like  him  in  the  Sastras,  in  ascertaining 
the  sense,'  in  determining  th*  meaning  of  the  Veda  by  the  mouth  of 
the  Purva  and  Uttara  Mmansa.  '  In  skill,'  i.e.  in  learning.  "When 
specifying,  it  is  well  known  that  Hanumat  was  the  ninth  author  of 
Grammar;  such  is  Kataka's  explanation." 

The  other  eight  grammarians  are  mentioned  by  Colebrooke Рђћ Essays, 
ii.,  pp.  39,  48  (ed.  1837). 

IfOTE  KРђћPage  261,  note  "s',  line  3  from  loUom. 
With  this  compare  the  Tandya  Mahabrahmana  xiv.  11,  28,  where 
it  is  said :  Indro  Yatm  salavrikehhyah  prayaehhdt  \  tarn,  aslild  img 
aihyavaiat  \  so  'iuddho  'manyata  |  sa  etaf  hiAdhakuddlnyam  wpakyatX 
tena  asudhyat  \  "  Indra  gave  up  the  Tatis  to  the  jackals.  An  evil 
voice  addressed  hitn"  [eharging  him  with  the  murder  of  Brahmans, 
according  to  the  Commentator].  "He  recognized  himself  as  unclean. 
He  beheld  this  'S'uddhyuddhiya,'  [a  particular  saman  text]  and  be- 
came purified."  The  story  is  repeated  further  on  in  the  same  Brah- 
mana  xviii.  1,  9,  where  it  is  said  that  instead  of  beholding  tiie 
"  S'uddha^uddhlya,"  Indra  went  to  Prajapati,  who  gave  him  the 
"Upahavya"  [Frafdpatim  upadhdvat  \  tasmai  etam  upahewyam  prd- 
ydchhat).  This  story  of  Indra  and  the  Tatis  is  alluded  to  in  Ait. 
Br.  vii.  28,  which  is  quoted  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  437  f. 
It  is  also  referred  to  in  the  Tandya  Br.  viii.  1,  4,  and  xiii.  8,  17. 
The  latter  passage  is  as  follows:  Indro  Yatln  saldvrihelhydk  prdya- 
chhat  I  teshdm  trm/alp  mdakishyania  Prithwraimir  ┬Бrihadyiri^  Rdyo- 
vdjah  I  te  'Iruvan  " ko  nah,  imdn  putrdn  Iharishyati"  iti  \  "aham" 
iti  Indro  'Iravit  \  tan  adhinidhaya,  pa/richdrya  char  an  vardJiayams  tan 
vardhayitvd  'Iravlt  '^  kumdrakah  vardn  vrinidhvam'"  iti  \  "  kshatram 
mahyam"  ity  abravit  Prithuraimih\  tasmai etenapdrtharaimena kshatram 
prdyaehhai  \  kshatrakdmah  etena  stwiUa  \  kshatrasya  iva  asya  prakdio 
bhavati\  " Brahmwoarehasam  mahyam"  ity  dbravld  Brihadgirih  \  tasmai 
etena  harhadgirena  Irahmavarohasam  prayachhat  \  IrahnoAiarehasa-kdmah 
etena  stuvita  \  brahmmarohasl  bhavati  \  "pasun  mahyam"  ity  abravld 


492  APPENDIX. 

Mayovajah  \  tasmai  etena  rdyovajiyena  paiun  prayacKhat  \  paiukamah 
etena  stumta  \  paiuman  hhmaU  \  18.  Partharaimam  rajanyaya  hrahmor' 
sama  Icuryat  harhzdgiram  Irahmanaya  rayovajiyam  vaiiyaya  \  mena  eva 
enams  tad-rupem  sammrdhayati  stomak  \  "Indra  gave  up  the  Tatis  to 
the  jackals.  Three  of  them  were  left,  Prithura^mi,  Brihadgiri,  and 
Eayovaja.  They  said,  'Who  will  cherish  these  persons,. us,  as  sons?' 
*I,'  said  Indra.  Having  placed  them  [on  his  car,  according  to  the 
comm.J,  he  went  on  tending  and  rearing  them.  "When  he  had  reared 
them,  he  said,  '  Youths,  choose  boons.'  Prithura^mi  said,  '  May  regal 
power  he  mine ! '  He  accordingly  gave  him  regal  power  by  means  of 
this  'partharasma'  saman.  Let  the  man  who  desires  regal  power  offer 
praise  with  this  saman ;  and  he  obtains  distinction  like  that  of  regal 
power.  Brihadgiri  said,  '  May  Brahmanic  lustre  be  mine ! '  He  gave 
him  Brahmanic  lustre  by  means  of  this  'barhadgira'  saman.  Let  him 
who  desires  this  characteristic  offer  praise  with  this  saman ;  and  he 
obtains  it.  Eayovaja  said,  'Let  me  have  cattle ! '  He  gave  him  cattle 
by  means  of  this  'rayovajiya'  saman.  Let  him  who  desires  cattle  offer 
praise  with  this  saman;  and  he  obtains  them.  18.  Let  a  'partha- 
rasma' be  the  'brahma-saman'  performed  for  a  Eajanya,  a  'barhadgira' 
that  for  a  Brahman,  and  a  '  rayovajiya '  for  a  Vaisya.  The  '  stoma ' 
thus  brings  prosperity  to  each  of  them  after  "his  own  fashion."  The 
Tatis  are  declared  by  the  commentator  on  Tandya  Br.  viii.  1,  4,  to  be 
persons  "who  practised  observances  contrary  to  the  Veda"  {veda- 
viruddha-niyamopetan);  on  xiii.  4,  17,  to  be  "the  persons  so  called  who 
were  hostile  to  sacriflees  "^  {etat-sanjnakan  ycyna-virodhi-janan) ;  on 
xiv.  11,  28,  to  be  "persons  hostile  to  rites"  (Jcarma-virodhi-janan);  and 
on  xviii.  1,  9,  to  be  "Brahmans  who  did  not  celebrate  the  jyotishtoma 
and  other  sacrifices,  but  lived  in  another  way  "  {jyotishtomady  akritva 
praMrantarem  vartamdnam  Irahmanan).  The  Tatis  are  also  men- 
tioned in  the  Taitt.  Sanhita  ii.  4,  9,  2,  in  these  words :  Yatinam  adya- 
mananam  ^irahawi parapatan  \  te  Icharjurah  abhavan  \  "The  heads  of 
the  Tatis  who  were  being  eaten  fell  off.  They  (the  Tatis)  became  date- 
trees."  In  the  same  Sanhita,  vi.  2,  7,  5,  they  are  again  referred  to 
thus :  Indro  Tatln  salavrikebhyah  prayaohhat  \  tan  dahahinatah  uttara- 
vedyah  adan  \  "  Indra  gave  up  the  Tatis  to  the  jackals :  they  devoured 
them  on  the  south  side  of  the  northern  altar."  On  the  former  of  these 
texts  the  commentator  remarks  as  follows :  Faramafiamsya-rupam  eha- 


APPENDIX.  493 

turthdiramam  prdptanam  yeshdih  Tafindm  muMe'  Brahmdtmaha-prati- 
pddako  vedoDita-Sahdo  ndsti  tan  Yatln  Indrah  aranyebhyah  ivabhyah 
prayaohhat  \  tathd  Kaushitakihrdhmanopanishadd  Indrasya  pratijnd 
samdmndyate  "  Arunmukhan  Yatln  saldvrikebhyah  prdyachham"  iti  \ 
patitatvdt  teshdm  tatkdtvam  yuhtam  \  tathd  eha  smaryate  ''  nitya-karma 
parityafya  veddnta-sravamm  vina  \  vartamanas  tu  sannydsl  pataty  eva 
na  samiayah"  iti  \  teshdm  cha  saldvrikair  Ihakshana'm  shashtha-kdnde 
samdmndyate  .  ,  .  .  iti  \  veddnta-irwoana-vdnehham  mnd,  nitya-karma- 
pmrityakta/vatam  hhavatdm  api  Idri^i  gatir  iti  da/rkayitum  vedi-samipe 
hhakshanam  eva  \  "Indra  gave  up  to  the  wild  dogs  those  Tatis  in 
whose  mouth  (although  they  had  attained  the  fourth  stage  of  life 
[dsrama],  that  of  Paramahamsas)  the  word  of  the  Vedanta  [or 
'Ppanishads]  which  sets  forth  that  the  soul  is  Brahma,  was  not  found. 
Accordingly  Indra' s. declaration  that  he  'gave  up  the  Arunmukha  Tatis 
to  the  jackals  is  recorded  in  the  Xaushitaki  Brahmana  Upanishad" 
(iii.  1;  see  p,  161  of  Prof.  Cowell's  translation  in  the  Bibliotheca 
Indica).  "In  consequence  of  their  fallen  condition,  it  was  fit  that 
this  should  have  been  done :  according  to  the  text  of  the  Smriti,  '  A 
Sannyasin  who  lives  in  the  neglect  of  the  fixed  observances,  and  with- 
out hearing  the  Yedanta  ;[or  Upanishads],  sinks  without  doubt  into  a 
fallen  condition.'  And  the  fact  of  the  Tatis  being  eaten  by  jackals 
is  recorded  in  the  sixth  book  (of  this  Sanhita,  as  quoted  above).  The 
circumstance  of  their  being  devoured  near  the  altar  is  intended  to  show 
that  the  same  fate  awaits  you  gentlemen  also,  who  live  without  desiring 
to  hear  the  Upanishads,  and  in  the  neglect  of  the  fixed  ceremonies." 
From  Prof.  Cowell's  note  in  the  Xaushitaki  Br.  Up.  transl.,  p.  161, 
it  appears  that  Sayana,  the  commentator  on  the  Ait.  Br.  vii.  28, 
regarded  the  Tatis  there  mentioned  as  being  Asnras  in  the  disguise  of 
devotees,  and  the  Arurmaghas  referred  to  there  as  being  Asui'as  in  the 
form  of  Brahmans.  Prof  Cowell  adds  in  a  second  note  that  the  com- 
mentator (in  the  Kaush.  Br.  Up.)  "explains  the  Arunmukhas"  (there 
mentioned)  "  as  those  in  whose  mouths  the  reading  of  the  Vedas  is 
not;"  and  observes  that  "they  and  the  Arurmaghas  of  the  Ait.  Br. 
are  equally  obscure."  See  the  remainder  of  the  note,  and  Prof  Hang's 
note  on  the  latter  passage  in  his  translation  of  the  Ait.  Br.,  p.  483  f. 
He  thinks  the  Arurmaghas  "  were  no  doubt  a  kind  of  degraded  Aryas, 
very  likely  a  tribe  of  the  ancient  Iranians,"  etc. 


494  APPENDIX. 

NOTE  Y.РђћPaffe  310,  note  "- 

In  regard  to  this  note  I  have  been  favoured  with  a  communication 
from  Prof.  Eoth,  who  is  of  opinion  that  there  are  two  substantives 
kromos,  as  there  are  two  roots  iru.  There  is  not  only,  he  considers,  a 
root  kru,  "  to  hear,"  but  a  second  sr,u=sru;  and  there  are,  he  adds,  a 
number  of  passages  where  the  sense  "renown,"  traditionally  ascribed 
to  iravas,  however  wide  this-  idea  is^  and  in  however  forced  a  manner 
it  may  be  applied,  does  not  suffice.  The  forthcoming  fasciculus  of  his 
Lexicon  will.  Prof.  Eoth  informs  me,  supply  details  on  this  subject. 

"Wilson,  Westergaard,  and  Williams,  in  their  Dictionaries,  give  a 
second  kru  as  equivalent  to  srw,  "to  move,"  "to  flow,"  etc.  Prof. 
Aufrecht  is  of  opinion  that  in  addition  to  iru,  "  to  hear,"  there  is 
another  root  iru,  with  thfe  meaning  "to  quake,"  "to  shake,"  "to 
tremble."  This  root,  he  states,  occurs  only  twice  in  the  whole  Vedic 
literature  which  we  have  before  us.  The  passages  in  which  it  is  found 
are  E.V.  i.  127,  3:  Vilu  chid  yasya  samritau  iruvad  vaneva  yat  sthiram\ 
"  Even  the  strong  quakes  at  his  attack,  and  even  the  firm  shakes  like 
trees;"  and  R.V.  i.  39,  6 :  A  vo  yamaya  prithivi  chid  aSrot  \  "Even 
the  earth  trembled  before  your  rush."  From  this  root  is  derived 
groiia,  "lame."  Prof.  Aufrecht  does  not  think  that  in  any  Vedical 
passage  the  root  gru  has  the  meaning  of  sravati,  "to  flow."  In  his 
note  on  the  former  of  these  two  passages,  Sayana  explains  sruvat  by 
gachhet,  iiryeta,  i.e.  "will  move,"  "will  crumble." 


NOTE   G.РђћPage  412,  line  19. 

In  her  lamentation  for  Eavana  (Eam.,  Bombay  ed,  vi.  113)  his 
queen  Mandodari,  among  other  attributes  which  she  ascribes  to  him, 
speaks  of  him  (v.  49)  as  jetarafh  hhapalanafh,  ksheptararh  S'anharasya 
eha,  "  conqueror  of  the  guardians  of  the  world,  and  caster  down  (or, 
contemner)  of  S'ankara."  S'ankara  could  not  therefore  have  been 
looked  on  by  the  writer  of  this  as  the  Supreme  Deity.  Prom  the 
story  of  Nandlsvara,  quoted  in  the  Appendix,  above,  p.  460  f ,  it  will 
have  been  seen,  however,  that  Eavana  was  really  no  match  for  S'ankara. 


NOTE   IS..Рђћ Page  418,  note  Рёб. 
The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  story  of  Indra  and  Indrajit,  as 


/  APPENDIX.  495 

given  in  the  twenty-seventh  and  following  sections  of  the  Yuddha 
Eanda.  Ravana  in  the  course  of  his  expeditions  goes  to  Indra-loka. 
Indra  tells  the  gods  to  get  ready  for  battle ;  but,  being  afraid,  resorts 
to  Vishnu  (sect.  27,  6),  whom  he  glorifies  as  the  Creator  and  the  Being 
into  whom  all  things  are  absorbed  at  the  end  of  the  world,  and  asks 
his  advice  (v.  13).  Vishnu  reassures  him ;  but  says  that  he  could  not 
interfere  without  killing  Eavana, Рђћ which  he  is  unable  to  do  on  ac- 
count of  the  boon  conceded  to  the  Rakshasa  chief  by  Brahma  (v.  18); 
but  he  would  slay  him  at  the  proper  time  (v.  20).  Meanwhile  he  tells 
Indra  to  fight  with  Ravana  (v.  21).  A  battle  takes  place  between  the 
gods  and  Rakshasas  (v.  26  ff.).  The  eighth  Vasu  Savitra  comes  on 
the  field  (vv.  34  and  43),  fights  with  Sumali,  one  of  the  Rakshasas, 
and  grandfather  of  Ravana,  who  had  routed  the  gods,  kills  him, 
reducing  to  ashes  his  bones  and  all  the  rest  of  him  (v.  50),  and  puts 
the  Rakshasas  to  flight.     They  are,  however,  rallied  by  Indrajit  (sect. 

28,  1  ff.),  and  the  gods  repulsed.  Indra's  son,  Jayanta,  enters  the 
fray  (vv.  6  ff.).  The  gods  are  furiously  assailed  by  Indrajit.  Both 
sides,  in  the  confusion,  smite  their  own  warriors  (vv.  17  f.).  Jayanta 
is  carried  off  by  his  grandfather,  his  mother  S'achi's  father,  Puloman, 
the  Daitya,  who  enters  with  him  into  the  sea  (vv.  19  f.).  The  gods, 
thinking  that  Jayanta  had  been  killed,  take  to  flight  (v.  21),  and  are 
pursued  by  Indrajit.  Indra  himself  now  comes  upon  the  scene  (v.  23), 
and  is  opposed  by  Ravana  (vv.  29  ft'.),  whom  he  eventually  captures  (sect. 

29,  V.  18  f.).  Meghanada  (son  of  Ravana),  afterwards  called  Indrajit, 
becoming  invisible  by  his  magical  power,  which  he  had  obtained  from 
Mahadeva,  binds  Indra  and  carries  him  off  (v.  27).  The  gods,  headed 
by  Brahma,  follow  them  to  Lanka  (sect.  30).  Brahma  praises  Megha- 
nada's  valour,  and  declares  that  he  shall  be  called  Indrajit  ("  the  con- 
queror of  Indra,"  v.  5).  Brahma  then  asks  that  Indra  shall  be  re- 
leased (v.  7).  Indrajit,  as  a  condition,  requires  the  boon  of  immortality 
(v.  8).  This  Brahma  refuses  (v.  9)."  Indrajit  then  says,  v.  1 1 :  S'ruya- 
tam  vd  hhavet  siddhih  S'atahratu-vimokshane  \  12.  Mameshtam  nityaso 
hfCmyair  mantraih  sampujya  Pavaham  \  sangramam  avatartum  cha  iafrii- 
nirjaya-kankshinah  \  13.  ASva-yukfo  ratho  mahyam  uttishthet  tu  Vibha- 
vasoh  I  tat-sthasyamarata  syad  me  esha  me  niieMto  varaJj,  \  14.  Tasmin 
yady  asamapte  cha  japyahome  Vibhavasau  \  yudhyeyam  deva-mngrame 

'3  See  similar  cases  above,  pp.  223  and  482. 


496  APPENDIX. 

tada  me  syad  vindianam  \  15.  Sarvo  hi  tapasa  deva  vrinoty  amaratdm 
puman  \  vikramena  may  a  tv  etad  amaratvam  jtra/oarUtam  \  16.  Evcm 
astv  iti  tarn  chaha  vakyaih  devah  Prajapatih  \  muktah  chendriyita  S'aJcro 
gatui  cha  tridivam  svrah  \  11.  "Listen:  or  let  me  attain  perfection 
by  releasing  S'atakratu  (Indra).  12.  My  wish  is, Рђћ desirous  as  I  am 
of  conquering  my  enemies, Рђћ to  enter  into  battle  after  constantly  wor- 
sbipping  Agni  with,  texts  and  oblations:  (13)  and  the  boon  I  have 
fixed  to  ask  for  is  that  (whenever  I  shall  do  so)  a  chariot  with  horses 
may  rise  up  for  me  out  of  the  Fire,  and  that  while  I  stand  in  it  I  may 
remain  immortal:  (14)  and  if  I  fight  in  it  against  the  gods  before  I 
have  finished  my  prayers  and  oblations  to  Agni,  let  me  perish.  15. 
Por,  0  god,  every  man  desires  by  austerities  to  attain  immortality. 
And  by  my  valour  I  have  sought  for  this  immortality.  16.  'So  be  it,' 
said  Brahma.  Then  Indra  was  released  by  Indrajit,  and  the  gods  went 
to  heaven."  Brahma  then  teUs  Indra  (vv.  17-48),  who  was  standing 
humiliated  and  thoughtful,  that  he  had  incurred  this  misfortune  be- 
cause he  had  corrupted  Ahalya  (v.  46),  the  first  woman,  whom  Brahma 
had  made  and  had  given  to  the  sage  Gautama  (v.  27),  as  a. reward  for 
his  austere  virtue.  For  this  he  had  been  cursed  by  the  sage  (vv.  31  ff.). 
Ahalya,  too,  was  reprehended  by  the  sage,  expelled  from  his  hermitage, 
and  condemned  to  lose  her  prerogative  of  being  the  only  beautiful 
woman  in  the  world  (w.  36  ff.).  She  excuses  herself  by  saying  that 
Indra  had  assumed  the  form  of  her  husband,  and  thus  deceived  her, 
and  that  she  had  not  yielded  to  illicit  passion  (vv.  40  f.).  She  is  then 
assured  that  she  would  be  restored  to  purity  by  the  vision  of  Vishnu 
incarnate  in  Rama,  and  received  again  by  her  husband  (vv.  41  ff.);  and 
Indra  himself  was  enjoined  to  offer  a  Vaishnava  sacrifice  by  which  he 
would  be  purified  (v.  47  f.).'*     (Compare  the  forty-eighth  and  forty- 

'*  The  commentator  remarks  on  Terse  49,  where  the  performance  of  this  sacrifice 
is  mentioned :  Devanam  na  yajneshv  adhikarah  iti  Jaiminy-ulUcm  tu  pramadad  iti 
nirupitam  pralc  \  "  The  saying  of  Jaimini  that  the  gods  have  not  the  prerogative  of 
sacrificing  has  heen  before  determined  to  be  founded  on  an  inadvertence."  The  end 
of  the  remarks  on  Eamayaua  i.  29,  7,  quoted  above,  p.  131,  note  131,  may  be  here 
referred  to  by  the  commentator.  Besides  the  text  cited  in  p.  262,  note,  mention  is  else- 
where found  of  sacrifice  being  offered  by  Indra.  See  the  story  of  Nahusha  adduced 
in  the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  307  ff.,  where  such  a  sacrifice  is  referred  to 
(p.  310).  The  lines  of  the  Ddyoga-parvan  (414  f.)  in  which  this  is  mentioned  are  as 
follows :  Mam  eva  yajatam  S'akrali  pavayishyami  veyrinam  \  punyma  hayamedhma 
mam  ishtva  Falcasaacmali  |  punar  eahyati  devanam  indratvam  akutobhayah  |    Vishnu 


APPENDIX.  497 

ninth  sections  of  the  first  book  of  the  Eamayana,  Bombay  ed.,  the 
note  in  p.  49,  above ;  and  a  similar  purification  of  Indra  for  another 
sin,  above,  p.  262,  note,  and  the  beginning  of  Note  E.,  p.  491.)  I 
quote  the  verses  in  which  Brahma  here  describes  the  creation  of  the 
first  woman  Ahalya : 

Sect.  30,  19  ff. Рђћ Amarendra  mays,  luddhya  pr^ah  srishtds  tathd 
prabho  I  eka-vmrnah  samabhdshah  eka-i'ilpai  cha  sa/rvakah  \  20.  Tasam 
nasti  vUesho  hi  darsane  lahhane  'pi  va  \  tato  'ham  ehagra-manas  tah 
prajdh,  sdmachintayam  \  21.  So  'ham  tdsdm  viseshdrtham  striyam  ekdm 
vinirmame  \  yad  yat  prajdndm,  pratyangaffi  viiishtam  tat.  tad  uddhritam  \ 
22.  Tato  mayd  rupa-gunair  Ahalyd  stri  vinirmitd  |  Sdlam  ndmeha 
vairupyam  halyam  tat-prabhavam  bhavet  |  23.  Yasydh  na  vidyate  halyam 
tendhalyeti  visruta  \  Ahalyety  eva  cha  mayd  tasyah  ndma  praMrtitam  \ 
19.  "  0  chief  of  immortals  (Indra),  all  creatures  were  by  my  under-  : 
standing  formed  by  me  of  one  caste,  of  the  same  speech,  and  of  one 
form  in  every  respect.  ,20.  There  was  no  distinction  of  them  in  ap- 
pearance or  characteristic  (sexual)  mark.  I  then,  with  intent  mind, 
reflected  on  these  creatures.  21.  In  order  to  distinguish  them,  I  formed 
one  woman.  Whatever  there  was  most  distinguished  (excellent)  in 
the  several  members  of  [different]  creatures  was  taken  [to  compose 
her].  22.  A  woman  faultless  (ahalyd)  in  form  was  then  fashioned 
by  me.  Hala  means  ugliness,  and  halya  that  which  -  springs  from 
ugliness.  23.  She  who  has  nothing  sprung  from,  ugliness  (halya)  is 
known  as  '  Ahalya.'     And  I  have  made  her  known  by  this  name." 


NOTE   I. Рђћ Page  427,  line  7  from  the  foot. 

Professors  Aufrecht  and  MiiUer  have  been  good  enough  to  furnish 
me  with  the  text  of  this  Durga-stava,  or  Eatri-sukta,  which,  in  the 
Sanhita  MSS.  of  the  E.V.,  follows  a  hymn  addressed  to  Night  (the 
127th  of  the  Tenth  Mandala=Ashtaka  viii.  7,  14).  I  will  first  give 
the  text,  with  a  translation,  of  the  genuine  hymn  to  Night  (R.Y.  x. 
127),  and  then  quote  the  Parisishta : 

E.Y.  X.  127. Рђћ 1.  Eatrl  vi  alchyad  dyatl  purutrd  devl  ahhalhih  \  vii- 
vdh  adhi  sriyo  'dhita  \  2.  J.  uru  aprdh  amartyd  nivato  devl  udvatah  \ 

speaks :  "  Let  S'atra  (Indra)  worship  me :  I  will  purify  the  thunderer.  Having 
sacrificed  to  me  with  a  pure  horse  sacrifice,  he  shall  again  obtain  the  headship  of  the 
gods,  and  be  deliYered  from  fear." 

TrnT,.   TV.  32 


498  APPENDIX. 

jyotiaha  hddhate  tamah  \  3.  Nir  u  svasdram  askrita  usJiasam  devi  ayati  \ 
apa  id  u  hdsate  tamah  \  4.  &d  no  adya  yasyah  vaya0i  ni  te  ydmann  avihsh- 
mahi  I  vrihhe  na  vasatim  vayah  \  5.  Ni  gramdso  avikshata  ni  padvanto  ni 
pahhinah  |  nilyendsai  chidarthinah  \  6;  Yavaya  vrikyam  vriham  ymaya 
stenam  urmye  \  atha  nah  sutara  hhava  |  7.  Upa  ma  pepisat  tamah  Jcrish- 
nafh,  vyahtam  asthita  \  ushah  rind  iva  ydtaya  \  8.  Upa  te  gah  iva  d 
dkaram  vrintsJma  duhitar  divah  |  rdtri  stomam  najigyushe  \  "The  divine 
Nigtt  arriving,  hath  shone  in  many  places  with  her  eyes;  she  has 
assumed  all  her  splendours.  2.  The  immortal  goddess  has  widely  filled 
the  lower  and  the  upper  regions :  hy  light  she  destroys  the  darkness. 
3.  Arriving,  the  goddess  has  driven  away  her  sister  the  Twilight :  the 
darkness  departs.  4.  Be  to-day  [favourable]  to  us  who  have  gone  to 
rest  at  thy  coming,  as  birds  to  their  nests  in  a  tree.  5.  Men,  cattle, 
and  even  suppliant  hawks,  have  gone  to  rest.  6.  Drive  away,  0 
Night,  the  she-wolf  and  the  wolf:  drive  away  the  thief;  and  carry 
us  safely  across  [thyself].  7.  Darkness  adorned  [with  stars],  black, 
and  yet  illuminated,  has  approached  me :  do  thou,  Ushas,  drive  it  . 
away  like  one  who  is  bound  [to  do  so].  8.  I  have  brought  for  thee 
a  hymn,  as  it  were  an  offering  of  cows,  like  [an  encomium]  for  a 
conqueror.     Eeceive  it,  0  Night,  daughter  of  the  Day." 

1.  (=]Srir.  iv.  29  ;  A.V.  19,  47, 1 ;  and  Vaj.  S.  34,  32)Рђћ J  ratripar- 
thivam  rajah  pitur  aprdyi  dhdmahhih  \  divah  sadamsi  brihati  vi  tishthase 
d  tveshaih  vajrtate  tamah  \  2.  (A.V.  19,  47,  3)  Ye  te  rdtri  nrichahshaso 
yuMdso  '^  navatir  nava  \  ailtih  santv  ashtd  uto  te  sapta  saptatih  \  3. 
Eatrim  prapadye  jananlm  sarva-hhuta-nive^amm''^  \  Ihadrdm  Ihaga- 
vatim  lirishndm  viSvasya  jagato  nisdm  \  4.  Samve^amm  saniyamant^ 
graha-nahhatra-mdlimm  ]  prapanno  'hatm  sivdm  rdtrim  hhadre  pdram 
asimahi  hhadre  pdram  oMmahi  ofh  namah  |  5.  Stoshydmi  prayato 
devim  iaranydm  hahvrieha-priydm  \  sahasra-sammitdm  Durgdm  Jdta- 
vedase  mnavdma  soman "  |  6.  S'dnty-artham,  dvijdtmdm  risMbhih 
eemapdiritdh  {samupairitd  ?)  |  rig-vede  tvam- samutpannd  'rdtiyato  nida- 
hdti  vedah  \  7.   Ye  tvdm  den  prapadyante  hrdhmandh  havya-vdhamm  \ 

75  For  yuktasah,  the  A.  V.  reads  drashtarah,  "seers." 

"  This,  Professor  Aufrecht  remarks,  is  imitated  from  E.V.  i.  36,  1 :  Satrwk  jagato 
nivesamm, 

"  The  final  padas  of  this  and  the  three  following  verses  are,  as  Prof.  Aufrecht 
observes,  borrowed  from  R.V.  i.  99. 


APPENDIX,  499 

midyah  lahuvidyalj,  vd  sa  nahparshad  ati  durgani  vUva  \  8.  Agni-va/rnam 
M>}iafh  saumyam  Tclrtayishyanti  ye  dvijak  \  tan  tarayati  dwrgani  naveva 
sindhum  dmrita  Hy  Agnih  \  9.  Durgeshu  vishame  gJiore  smgrame  ripu- 
sankate  |  agni-chora-mpateshu  dushta-graha-nwdrane  |  10.  Dwrgeshu 
mshameshu  tvdm  sangrameshu  vmeshu  cha  |  moJtayitvd  prapadyanU , 
teaham  me  abhayam  kuru  teshdm  me  abhayam  kttru  om  namah  |  11.  Ke&i- 
nvSi  sarva-b'hutandm,  panchamlti  cha  ndma  cha  \  sa  mam  samdh  niidh  devl 
aarvafah  parirakshatu  sarvatah  parirakshatu  om  namah  |  [v.  12  is  the 
same  as  the  verse  quoted  by  Weber  in  the  text,  beginning  tarn 
agni-varndm,  etc.]  |  13.  Dwgd  dwgesJm  sthdnesJm  &am  no  devir  ahhwh- 
taye  \  yah  ima^i  Durga-sta/oam  puny  am  ratrau  rdtrau  sadd  pathet  \  rdtrih 
kuiikah  saulharo  rdtrt-stavo  gdyatrl  |  rdfri-suktam  Japed  mtya0i  tat- 
kdlam  upapadyate  | 

I  am  indebted  to  Professor  Aufreoht  for  assistance  in  correcting  the 
corrupt  text  and  in  explaining  parts  of  this  composition. 

1.  "0  Night,  the  terrestrial  atmosphere  was  filled  with  thy  father's 
might.  Thou,  the  mighty  one,  pervadest  the  celestial  mansions,  and 
awful  darkness  returns.  2.  Night,  may  the  man-beholders  which  are 
united  with  thee  Рёб  be  99,  88,  or  77.  3.  I  attain  to  Night,  the  mother, 
who  brings  rest  to  all  creatures,  kind,  divine,  dark,  the  night  of  the 
whole  world.  4.  I  have  attained  the  auspicious  Night,  who  causes 
men  to  rest,  who  composes  [them],  who  is  invested  with  a  garland  of 
planets  and  stars.  May  we  reach  the  other  side  in  safety !  may  we 
reach  the  other  side  in  safety!  5.  Intent,  I  will  praise  the  divine 
Durga,  who  affords  a  refuge,  who  is  beloved  by  the  Bahvrichas  (priests 
of  the  Eig-veda  ceremonial),  who  is  equal  to  a  thousand.  Let  us  pour 
forth  soma  to  Jatavedas  (Fire).  6.  For  the  tranquiUization  of  the 
twice-born,  thou  art  resorted  to  by  rishis,  and  hast  thy  origin  in  the 
Eig-veda.  May  t-A-gniiJ  burn  up  the  wealth  of  him  who  seeks  to  hurt 
us!  7.  The  Brahmans,  learned  or  ignorant,  who  resort,  0  goddess, 
to  thee,  the  carrier  of  oblations, Рђћ may  he  transport  us  over  aU 
dificulties.  8.  Agni  transports  over  all  evils  [though]  hard  to  be 
traversed, Рђћ as  in  a  boat  across  the  ocean, Рђћ those  twice-born  men  who 
shall  celebrate  the  fire-colouredj  auspicious,  beautiful  goddess.  9.  In 
difficulties,  in  dire  perplexity,  in  battle,  in  trouble  from  enemies,  in 

'8  Or,  according  to  the  reading  of  the  A.T.,  "May  thy  man-beholders,  lookers 
be,''  etc. 


500  APPENDIX. 

visitations  of  fire,  and  thieves,  for  tte  prevention  of  inauspicious 
planets,  (10)  in  difficulties,  perplexities,  battles,  and  forests,  men, 
bewildered,  resort  to  thee.  Give  ub  security  from  these  things,  give 
us  security  from  these  things!  11.  [I  praise]  her  the  long-haired, 
and  whose  name  among  all  creatures  is  Panchami.  May  this  goddess 
every  night  preserve  me  in  every  way.  (12.  The  same  as  the  verse 
already  quoted  in  the  text,  p.  427,  line  26.)  13.  May  the  divine 
Durga  be  propitious  for  our  good  in  difficulties.  He  who  always  every 
night  reads  this  holy  Durga-stava, Рђћ (the  night,  Kusika,  Saubhara, 
the  ratri-stava,  gayatri),' Рђћ ^he  who  continually  mutters  the  ratri-siikta, 
arrives  at  that  time." 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  sense  of  some  parts  of  this  production  is  not 
very  clear,  but  to  ascertain  it  is  of  little  consequence. 


NOTE  Z.РђћPage  429,  lines  13/. 

These  same  tongues  of  fire  are  also  mentioned  in  a  hymn  to  Agni,  in 
the  Markandeya  Purana,  sect.  99,  vv.  52  ff. :  Ya  jihva  hhavatah  Kail 
kala-mshthd-harl  prabho  \  Wiayan  nah  paJd papebliyah  aihikacheha  malta- 
hhayat  \  53.  Karali  nama  yd  jihoa  maha-pralaya-haranam  \  taya  na 
pdhi  Uyddi  \  54.  Manojavd  cha  yd  jihvd  lagMmd  gum-lakshand  |  tayd 
ityadi  \  55.  ^a/reti  kamam  Vhutebhyo  yd  tejihod  Suhkitd  \  tayd  ityadi  \ 

56.  Sudhumra-varna  ya  jihva  prdnindm  rffga-iayikd  \   tayd  ityadi  \ 

57.  Sphulinginl  cha  yd  Jihvd  yatah  \jjd  te?~\  sakala-pudgald  \  tayd 
ityddi  I  58.  Yd  te  Vi&vd  sadd  Jihvd  prdnindm  Sarma-ddyim  |  tayd 
ityadi  \  52.  "By  thy  tongue  Kali,  the  final  destroyer  [of  the  world], 
preserve  us  from  sins  and  from  great  present  alarm.  53.  By  thy 
tongue  Earali,  the  cause  of  the  great  mundane  dissolution,  preserve 
us,  etc.  54.  By  thy  tongue  Manojava,  which  is  distinguished  by  the 
quality  of  lightness,  preserve  us,  etc.  55.  By  thy  tongue  Sulohita, 
which  accomplishes  the  desires  of  creatures,  preserve  us,  etc.  56.  By 
thy  tongue  Sudhumravarna,  which  inflicts  diseases  on  living  beings, 
preserve  us,  etc.  57.  By  thy  tongue  Sphulinginl,  the  loveliest  of  all, 
preserve  us,  etc.  58.  By  thy  tongue  Yii^va,  which  always  bestows 
blessings  on  living  beings,  preserve  us,  etc." 

In  .the  course  of  this  hymn  to  Agni  he  is  said  (v.  41)  to  have  been 
formed  eightfold :  Tvdm  ashfadhd  halpayitvd  yajnam  ddyam  akalpayan  | 


APPENDIX.  50  r 

"Having  formed  thee  in  eight  РќаwayS)  thРѓгy  performed  the  earliest 
sacrLfioe."  This  seems  to  refer  to  the  legend  from  the  Brahmanas 
given  in  pp.  339-347.  Again,  we  are  reminded  of  some  characteristics 
Рќаwhich  are  ascribed  to  Eudra  in  the  S'atarudriya  w.  2  and  11  (above, 
pp.  322  f.),  by  the  expressions  which  are  applied  to  Agni  in  the  seven- 
tieth verse  of  this  hymn :  Tat  te  Vdhne  iivam  rupafn  ye  cha  te  sapta 
hetayah  \  taih  pahi  nah  stuto  deva  pita  putram  watnuyam  \  ""When 
thou  art  lauded,  Agni,  preserve  us  by  thine  auspicious  form,  and  by 
thy  seven  shafts,  as  a  father  preserves  his  own  son." 

In  V.  63  Agni  is  said  to  have  "  stretched  out  the  whole  universe, 
and,  though  one^to  exist  in  manifold  shapes"  {tvaya  tatam  vihiam  idam 
charaehmam  Sutdhnaiko  iahudha  tvam  atra}. 


602 


ADDITIONAI.  NOTES  AND  COEEECTIONS. 


L  Fage  6,  note  13. 

See  further  K.V.  ii.  33,  1 ;  and  Dr.  Ballensen's  remarks  on  the  word 
sandrii  in  the  Journal  of  the  German  Oriental  Society,  voL  xxii.,  p.  588. 

ii,  Page  9,  line  11. 
See  Tandya  Mahabrahmana,  viii.  2,  1  f. 

iii.  Page  19,  line  Z  from  the  top  and  line  11  from  the  foot. 

I  learn  by  a  communication,  dated  some  months  ago,  from  Professor 
Aufreoht,  that  anoaiaye  is  not  a  substantive,  as  I  had  understood  it,  but 
-  the  third  person  singular  present,  from  the  root  ii-\-anu-\-a.  He  would 
translate  the  whole  verse  thus:  "With  which  body  has  Skambha 
entered  the  past,  and  which  body  of  his  rests  over  the  future  ?  When 
he  divided  his  one  body  into  a  thousand  bodies,  with  which  of  them 
did  he  enter  there  ?"  And  he  thinks  that  the  second  half  of  verse  8 
has  exactly  the  same  sense.  S'wye  is,  he  adds,  a  very  common  Yedic 
form  for  iete.  See  also  the  fasciculus  of  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon 
(recently  received),  s.v.  Si,  where  also  iage  is  stated  to  be  the  3rd  pers. 
sing. ;  and  the  scholiast  on  Panini  vii.  1,  41,  is  referred  to  in  proof. 
In  the  same  work  the  root  Si+anu-\-d  is  explained  as,  in  this  passage, 
signifying  "to  stretch  over." 

iv.  Page  28,  line  8. 

I  find  from  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth's  Lexicon,  s.v.-iatabahu,  that  the 
words  here  referred  to  occur  in  the  Taittirlya  Aranyaka  x.  1,  8.  I 
quote  in  full  the  verse  in  which  they  occur,  as  well  as  that  which 
precedes  it :  Aivahrante  rathalerante  Vishnuhrante  vasundhmra  \  Urasa 
dharayishyami  rahshasva  mam  pade  pade  \  bhumir  dhenur  dharanl  loka- 
dharani  1  uddhrita  'si  varahena  krishnena  satabahuna  I 


ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS.  503 

V.  Page  28,  line  14. 
See  Tandya  Brahmana,  xx.  14,  2  ff. ;  the  commencement  of  which 
corresponds  with  the  text  from  the  Panchavim^a  Brahmana,  quoted  in 
the  fifth  volume  of  this  work,  p.  392. 

vi.  Page  29,  line  9. 
See  Tandya  Br.  iv.  1,  4. 

vii.  Page  39,  line  17. 
For  "vi.  2,  42,"  read  "vi.  2,  4,  2." 

viii.  Page  39,  line  23. 
Aham  durgad  aharta.     Compare  E.V.  i.  61,  7,  and  viii.  66,  10,  in 
pp.  67  and  91,  and  the  quotation  from  Sayana's  commentary  given  in 
p.  92  f.,  above. 

ix.  Page  44,  Um  22. 
For  "5,  32,"  read  "5,  34." 

X.  Page  45,  line  5. 
See  Tandya  Br.  viii.  2,  10. 

xi.  Page  56,  line  11. 
Compare  Tandya  Br.  vii.  4,  2;  where  it  is  told  that  the  gods  failed - 
to  gain  heaven  by  either  the  Qayatri,  the  Trishtubh,  the  JagatI,  or  the 
Anushtubh  metres,  but  gained  it  by  the  Brihati. 

xii.  Page  68,  last  line. of  the  text. 
Compare  Tandya  Br.  vii.  5,  11 ;  6^  5 ;  xii.  5,  23 ;  9,  21;  13,  27  f. 

xiii.  Page  61,  line  5. 
See  the  discussion  among  the  gods  about  a  formula  in  Tandya  Br. 
vii.  8,  1  f. 

xiv.  Page  67,  line  18. 
On  the  word  mdtri,  "measurer,"   Bohtlingk  and  Both  have  the 
'     following  explanation :    "  Sayana  brings  under  this  head  the  verse 
1,  61,  7,  making  the  word  equivalent  to  'the  world-creating  (-sustain- 
ing) sacrifice.'     Benfey  translates  'carpenter.'     But  Yritra's  mother 
may  be' here  spoken  of." 


504  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  CORRECTIONS. 

XV,  Page  78,  line  11  from  the  foot. 
See  alao  Tandya  Br.,  xx.  15,  6,  f. 

xvi.  Page  80,  line  5  from  the  foot. 

Vishnu  is  also  mentioned  in  R.V.  v.  49,  3 :  Indro  Vishnwr  Varuno 
Mitro  Agnir  ahani  hhadrd  janayanta  dasmah  | 

xvii.  Page  81,  line  27. 

In  R.V.  viii.  12,  8,  Indra  is  said  to  have  eaten  a  thousand  buffaloes 
and  to  have  in  consequence  gained  in  vigour  {yadi  pravriddha  satpate 
sahasram  mahishdn  aghah  ]  ad  it  te  indriyam  mahi  pra  va/Dridhe). 

xviii.  Page  85,  line  13. 
"The  A^vins,"  etc.     Eead  "Te,  Asvins,  have  come  by  a  path 
which  yields  enjoyment." 

xix.  Page  88,  lines  16,  22  and  28. 

For  "yanna"  read  "yannah:  and  in  line  22,  for  "teUestnot" 
read  "tellest  to  us." 

The  passage  of  the  Taitt.  San.  referred  to  in  p.  88,  line  28,  viz.  ii.  5, 
5,  2  (p.  585  of  Bibl.  Ind.,  vol.  ii.),  gives  the  following  explanation  of 
the  words  Vishnave  S'ipivishtaya :  Yaj'no  vai  Vishnuh  )  paiavah  Upih  \ 
yajnah  eva  pa&wihu  pratishthati  \  "  '  Vishnu '  means  sacrifice,  and 
*  S'ipi '  means  victims ;  for  sacrifice  -depends  upon  victims."  See  also 
the  Tandya  Brahmana  ix.  7,  9  ff.  R.V.  vii.  100,  6,  is  translated  by 
Prof.  Roth  in  his  Illustrations  of  the  Mrukta,  p.  59.  I  am  indebted 
to  Prof.  Au&echt  for  the  following  remarks  on  "  S'ipi vishta : "  "  This 
attribute  of  Vishnu  occurs  only  in  R.V.  vii.  99,  6  (a  verse  "which 
ought  to  have  stood  only  at  the  end  of  hymn  100,  as  hymn  99  is 
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  Indra  and  Vishnu),  and  in  the  only  im- 
portant verses  vii.  100,  5  and  6.  The  A.V.  does  not  know  the  word, 
and  in  the  other  Sanhitas  and  Brahmanas  it  has  been,  as  in  other  cases, 
adopted  from  the  E.V.  It  is  perfectly  clear  that  something  oppro- 
brious was  expressed  by  the  epithet,  for  vii.  100,  6,  means:  'Why 
should  any  one,  0  Vishnu,  have  found  a  subject  for  reproof  when  thou 
didst  say,  "I  am  S'ipivishta "  ?  Do  not  conceal  even  that  shape  of 
thine  from  us,  as  thou  wearest  another  form  in  public'  Now  Aupa- 
manyava  says  clearly  that '  S'ivipishta '  is  '  kutsitarthlya '  (has  a  bad, 


ADDITIOITAL  NOTES  AND  COEEECTIONS.  505 

or  contemptu&us,  sense)."    The  commentator  on  the  Taittiriya  Sanhita 
ii.  2,  12,  5  (vol.  ii.,  p.  390)  says  that  it  is  used  for  atyanta-rogin.^" 

"  The  complete  words  of  Aupamanyava  are  as  follows :  S'ipmshto  Yiahnur  iti 
VMnor  eke  namani  hhavatah  \  kutsit-arthiyam  purvam  ity  Awpwmcmyavah  |  ' '  Aupa- 
manya  says  that  there  are  two  names  of  Yishnu,  S'ipivishta  and  Vishnu :  of  which 
the  former  has  a  bad  sense." 

*>  I  quote  the  commentator's  remarks  on  the  Terse  (tii.  100,  6,  of  the  E.V.)  at 
length:  Se  "Vishno"  tvam  "yad"  yasmat  haranat  "S'ipmshto  amni"  iti  pra- 
harshena  "vmakshe"  punah  pimar  vahshi  tasmat  "te"  tma  manasi  " leim  it pari- 
ehakshyam  Ihut "  Mm  idam  garhanlyam  aihut  \  na  etad  garMmyam  vritha  eva  icwa 
lajja  ity  abhiprdyah  \  yadyapy  etan  noma  lake  atyantaroginy  \  udghS/tita-guhyatva- 
vimudhaih  prayujyate  "  8'ipmiahto  'yam "  iti  tathapy  mayavarthaaya  irShmanma 
vyakhyataivad nasty  atra  tava  lajja-karanam  |  iasmad  "etad  varpo "  varishtham nama 
"asmad  ma  apaguhah"  asmakam  agre  gudham  ma  huru  |  "yad"  yasmat  tvam 
guhanaya  eva  samithe  yuddhe  kauacha-airahanyahhyam  gudho  " anyarupo  iabhutha " 
babhuvitha.  |  tad  anyatha  yathatatha  va  bhavatu  tathapy  aamad-vriddhatt  (quere 
buddhau  ?)  prasaatam  idam  ma  gopaya  ity  arthah  |  "  0  Vishnu,  since  thou  repeatedly 
sayest  I  am  S'ipivishta,  how,  then,  is  this,  in  thy  mind,  matter  of  reproach  f  It  is 
not  matter  of  reproach;  thou  art  needlessly,  ashamed:  such  is  the  purport.  Although 
this  word  is  in  common  language  applied  to  diseased  persons,  to  those  whose  naked- 
ness is  uncovered,  and  to  fools,  by  those  who  say  '  so  and  so  is  S'ipivishta,'  yet  as  the 
sense  of  its  component  parts  is  expounded  in  this  Brahmana  (ii.  5,  5,  2,  see  above), 
thou  hast  no  occasion  for  shame.  Do  not  therefore  conceal  from  us  thy  most  excellent 
name  (so  the  commentator  understands  varpas).  Inasmuch  as  in  the  battle  thou  hast 
for  the  sake  of  concealment  been  covered  by  a  coat  of  mail  and  a  helmet, Рђћ ^whether 
the  fact  be  so  or  otherwise,  do  not  conceal  that  which  in  our  estimation  deserves 
praise." 

The  word  "S'ipivishta"  also  occurs  in  the  S'atarudriya  (Vajas.  Sanhita  16, 29);  and  is 
thus  commented  on  by  Mahldhara  on  the  verse :  S'ipiviahtaya  Viahriurupaya\ "  Vishnuh 
S'ipiviahtah,"  iti  ^ruteh,  |  yadva  sipishu  paiuahu  viahtah  pra/i>ishtah  [  "pas'avo  vai 
a'ipir "  iti  st-uteh  |  sarva-prama?iv  antarySmitaya  sthitafi  ity  arthah  \  yadva  "  ycijno 
vai  iipih  "  \  yaj'ne  ' dhidevatatvena  pravishtah  \  iipir  adityo  va  mandaladhiahthatS  ity 
arthah  |  tasmai  namah  |  "  sipayo  'tra  raimayali  uehyante  tair  avishto  bhavati "  iti 
Taskokieh  (Nirukta,  5,  8).  "To  S'ipivishta,  i.e.  to  him  who  is  in  the  form  of  Vishnu : 
for  the  Veda  says  S'ipivishta  is  Vishnu.  Or,  according  to  the  Vedic  text,  that '  s'ipi ' 
means  cattle,  S'ipivishta  wiU  mean,  he  who  enters  into  cattle,  i.e.  who  is  present  in 
all  creatures,  pervading  them.  Or  '  S'ipi '  means  sacrifice ;  and  so  S'ipivishta  may 
signify  him  who  has  entered  into  sacrifice  as  its  presiding  deity.  Or,  '  ^ipi '  is  the 
sun  who  presides  over  the  circle  of  the  sky Рђћ to  him  be  reverence;  according  to  what 
Taska  says  (Nirukta  6,  8)  '  S'ipi '  means  rays ;  by  them  he  is  pervaded." 

Professor  "Weber  has  the  following  notice  of  'S'ipivishta'  in  his  Indische  Studien 
ii.  37  f.,  note.  This  is  one  of  those  words  which  already  gave  trouble  to  Taska 
(Nirukta  5,  9).  Bhatta  Bhaskara  Mi^ra  has  the  following:  MrvesMita-s'eshaya 
(sepdya  ?)  |  sarvada  devadaru-vana-pradesadau  va  yatha  adityatmane]  yatha  Skanda- 
pwdne  S'aitydchhdmatayogad  {?)  va  sipi  vari  prachahahate  \  tatpanad  rakshanSd 
vS  'pi  sipayo  raimayo  matah  ]  teshu  praviahtah  savita  S'ipivishta  ihochyate  |  yadva 
pas'amh  iipayah  "yajno  vai  Vishnuh  paiamah  sipir"  iti  sruieh  sarva-pranady- 
antaryamitvena  pravishta^  ity  arthah  \  [Prof.  V.  then  quotes  the  passage  of  the 
Mahabharata,  13229].  "'S'ipi'  is  akin  to  '^epa,'  'iipra,'  Kiefer,  hip,  Hiifte, 
cippus." 


506  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  COREECTIONS, 

This  piece  of  information  is  taken  from  the  Amarakosha,  where  it  is 
said,  S'ipivishtas  tu  Tchalatau  duhharmani  mahehare.  Halayndha  and 
Hemachandra  have  the  same.  Amara  must  have  taken  the  two  first 
meanings  ('bald-headed'  and  'leprons')  from  actual  use;  and  there 
is  no  reason  to  doubt  that  even  in  the  Vedic  passages  '  S'ipivishta ' 
means  either  bald-headed,  or  one  who  has  a  skin  disease.  So  long  as 
the  sense  of  'sipi'  is  undetermined,  it  will  be  difficuli  to  choose 
between  the  two.  The  word  '^ipi'  is  not  found  used  separately. 
For  what  the  Taittirlya  Sanhita  ii.  5,  5,  2  (quoted  above)  says,  yqfno 
mi  Vishmh  |  paimah  iipih  (Tandya  Br.  xviii.  6,  26 ''),  and  all  that  the 
modern  Hindu  commentators  say,  about '  sipi,'  is  worthless.  A  glimmer 
of  light  is  east  upon  '┬Бpi'  by  '^ipitam,'  'defective,'  in  the  S'atap.  Br. 
xi.  1,  4,  4."  8= 

XX.  Page  91,  note  ". 
See  also  E.V.  viii.  22,  1. 

xxi.  Page  95,  line  1. 
For  "ix.  166,"  read  "ix.  100." 

xxii.  Page  95,  line  10. 

Another  verse  in  which  Vishnu  is  mentioned  is  one  in  the  funeral 
hymn,  E.V.  x.  15,  3 :  A  ahan  pitrlm  swidatran  avitsi  napatam  eha 
vihramanam  eha  Vishnoh  |  "I  have  found  the  beneficent  Fathers,  and 
the  path  and  the  stride  of  Vishnu."  Napat  is  explained  by  Mahidhara 
in  Vaj.  S.  19,  66,  thus:  Na&ti  pato  yatra  sa  napato  deva-yana-patho 
yatra  gatdndm  pato  nasti.     "  Ifapata  means  that  on  which  there  is  no 

^'  This  passage  is  as  follows:  Mha  vai  Frajapateh paiushtha  tanur  yat  S'ipivishtah  \ 
prano  brihat  |  pranah  eva  paSushu  pratitishthaU  \  "  This  S'ipivishta  is  that  body 
of  Prajapati  which  abides  in  victims  (or  beasts).  The  Brihat  is  breath:  and  it  is 
breath  which  abides  in  victims."  On  which  the  commentator  remarks ;  "  Tajno 
Vishnuh  \  pascmah  s'ipir"  Hi  sruty-cmtmrat  |  Vishnoli  PrajapatUmt  Sipivihhtah  iti\ 
"For  another  Vedie  text  says  that  Vishnu  is  sacrifice,  and  ^ipi  denotes  victims.  Since 
Vishnu  has  the  character  of  Prajapati,  he  is  S'ipivishta,"  etc. 

*^  The  Commentator's  note  on  this  passage  is  as  follows :  Aleale  tiirupiam  ham^ 
sipitam  \  tad-asrito  dosha-vUesliah  \  tai-yuMam  iva  yajnasya  ianram  ihavati  | 

Prof.  Aufrecht  proposes  to  correct  this  as  follows :  Akale sipitam  \  sipitam  tatw- 

asrito  dosha-viseshali,  etc.  According  to  this  corrected  reading  the  sense  wiU  be : 
"  An  oblation  offered  at  a  wrong  time  is  '  s'rpita.'  Now  '  ^ipita '  means  a  particular 
defect  residing  in  the  body.  With  it  the  body  of  the  sacrifice  becomes  affected,  as 
it  were." 


ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  COREECTIONS.  507 

fall,  the  path  leading  to  the  gods,  on  which  those  who  go  along  it  do 
not  falL"  Sayana  on  E.V.  x.  15,  3  makes  the  Word=w┬ФaidMaj)o, 
"  the  absence  of  destruction." 

xxiii.  Tage  114,  Um  14. 
For  " verse"  read  "sense." 

xxiy.  Pfl^e  119,  ┬╗ofo  "'- 

As  regards  the  question  whether  or  not  ether  {akakoi^  is  eternal,  see 
the  first  volume  of  this  work,  pp.  130  and  506,  and  the  third  voL, 
pp.  70,  106,  and  164. 

XXV.  Fage  127,  line  ^from  the  foot. 
For  "prcwinaMi"  read  " pravrinaUi." 

xxvi.  Page  128,  line  5. 
The  Commentator  on  the  Taitt.  Ar.  (Bibl.  Ind.),  p.  372,  explains 
utkara  thus :   Veder  ttttara-bhdge  pdmiu-trinddayo  yatra  prahshipyante 
so  'yam  utkmrah  \  "  'The  utkara'  is  the  place  on  the  north  side  of  the 
Vedi  (altar)  where  dust,  grass,  etc.,  is  thrown." 

xxvii.  Page  129,  line  13. 
This  passage  is  identical  with  Tandya  Br.  vii.  5,  6,  vol.  i.,  p.  433. 

xxviii.  Page  262,  line  6  from  the  foot. 

The  Tanclya  Brahmana  xii.  6,  8,  also  relates  that  India,  after  thus 
treacherously  slaying  Namuchi,  was  followed  by  the  head  or  something 
else  which  cried,  "Slayer  of  a  hero,  thou  hast  injured  me,  thou  hast 
injured  me."  This  he  could  not  destroy,  either  by  yich,  or  saman,  but 
by  a  Harivarna"  {tad  enam  pdpiyaih  vdeham  vadad  amo/omrtata  "vira- 
hann  adruho  'druhah "  iti  |  tad  na  richd  na  sdmnd  apahmtum  aiaknot  \ 
tad  hdrivarnasya  eva  nidhamna  apahata) 

xxix.  Page  297,  line  18. 
To  the  word  "Jarasandha"  at  the  beginning  of  the  line,  prefix 

"582." 

XXX.  Page  300,  line  6. 

For  "x.  70,"  read  "v.  70." 


508  ADDITIONAL  NOTES  AND  COEEECTIONS. 

xxxi.  Page  302,  line  15. 
Prof.  Whitney  has  since  given  up  this  interpretation.     See  p.  399. 

zxxii.  Page  303,  Kne  7. 
For  "ii.  2,  29,"  read  "xi.  2,  29." 

xxxiii.  Page  303,  line  22. 
For  "  commentorial,"  read  "  commentatorial." 

xxxiv.  Page  306,  line  26. 
See  "Wilson's  Vishnu  Purana,  Dr.  Hall's  ed.,  vol.  ii.,  pp.  77  f. 

XXXV.  Page  319,  line  2. 
For  "x.  26,"  read  "xii.  26." 

xxxvi.  Page  400,  line  11. 
For  "ii.' 23,"  read  "ii.  33." 

xxxvii.  Page  421,  Une  24. 
For  "x.  99,"  read  "x.  90." 

xxxviii.  Page  4,1  \,.  line  12┬╗   Рђб 
For  "Devavati,"  read  "Vedavati." 

xxxix.  Page  491,  Une  27. 
For  "xiii.  8,  17,"  read  "xiii  4,  17." 


509 


INDEX. 


Abtyagni,  320 
AohhaTaka  priest,  84 
Aditi,  11  ff.,  80,84,  lUf., 

133  f.,  136,22^,306,365 

etc. 
Adhvaryu  priest,  66,  160 
Adtvaryu  Brahmana,  14 
A4iteya,  117 
Aditya,  14,  26  f.,  46,  65, 

etc. 

is  lord  of  Brahma, 

_  Vishnu  and  Budra,  475 
Aditya-hridaya,  a  hymil, 

474 
Adityas,  14f.,'54,  114  fF. 
JEsohylus,       Prometheus 

Vinctus,  66 
Agastya,  473,  480,  485 
Agnayi,  161 
Agni,  9, 22  f.,  26, 28  f.,  45, 

58,  61,  66,  70,  76,  etc. 

texts  in  praise  of.  Ill 

one  of  triad  of  gods, 

66,  70,  160  S. 
breaks  down  castles, 

312 
his  eight  forms  and 

names,  340  S. 
enamoured  of  Eishis' 

wives,  352  ff. 

his  tongues,  429, 497 

Agnihotra,  57 
Agni  Purana  iv.,  6 Рђћ 161 
Ahalya,  48,  496 
Ahankara,  42  f. 
Ahavaniya  fire,  359 
Ahi,  82,  101 
Ahvriti,  253 

Aindra-vaishnava     obla- 
tion, 79 
(Air,  46 

Aitareya  Brahmana Рђћ 
1.     1Рђћ129 

Рђћ  30Рђћ129 
ii.  8Рђћ289 
iv.  22Рђћ    9 

vi.  15Рђћ  84,  123 

Рђћ  33Рђћ319 
Aitas'a,  319 


Aitas'a-pralapa,  320 
Aitihasikas,  92 
Aia,  378, 383  (see  Brahma) 
Akas'a  (ether),  33,  119 
Akhandala,  (appellation  of 

Indira),  190 
AmaravatI,  246 
Ambika,  321,  422 
is  sister  of  Eudra, 

according  to  the  Tajur- 

vedas,  321.     See  Uma. 
Ambitama,  424 
Am^a,  or  Am^u,  14, 115 
Anakaduudubhi  (name  of 

Vasudeva),  273 
Auaraiya,  467  f. 
Andhaka,  336,  472 
Angas,  246 
Angiras,  91 
Augirases,  107,  116 
Anirud^ha,    grandson   of 

Krishna,  436 
Anrita-deva,  410 
Antaka,  336,  ,472 
Aimkramanika,  77 
Anushtubh,  162 
Apah.     See  Waters 
Aparna,  431.     See  TTma 
Apsarases,     obtained    by 

Kshatriyas  slain  in  bat- 
tle, 277 
Apsarases,  461 
Aram^ti,  sense  of  the  word-, 

317 
Arbuda,  107 
Ardhaka;  336 
Arjuna,  161  and  passim 
Arjuna  (Kartavirya),  177, 

253 
Arthavadas,  131 
Amndhati,  354 
Arunmukha  Yatis,  493 
Arurmaghas,  493 
Aryas,  76 
Arya  Bhatta,  110 
Aryaman,'l4,  68,  78 
A^ani,  342,  547 
Asita  Devala,  432 
Asura  (the  Spirit),  109 
Asuras,26f.,40,54,58ff., 

etc. 


.Asuras,  their  castles,  203, 

223  ff. 
Asuri,  123 

A^vatthamau,  186     ' 
A^vamedha,  or  horse-sacri- 
fice, 167  ff. 
A^vins,46,48,68,76, 128, 

etc. 
Atharva-^iras,  166, 172 

quoted,  356 

Atharva-veda,  quoted  or 
referred  to Рђћ 

2,  1,  3Рђћ  6 

Рђћ  27,  6Рђћ332,  403f 

3,  16,  1Рђћ313 

Рђћ  20,  4,  7Рђћ  96 

4,  2, 1-8-  ISf..,  18 
,Рђћ    -21,  7Рђћ312 

Рђћ  Рќа   28,  Iff.Рђћ 332 

Рђћ  30,  6Рђћ318 

6,  3,  3Рђћ  96 

Рђћ  21,  11Рђћ333 

Рђћ  26,  5Рђћ  96 

Рђћ  26,  7Рђћ  65 

6, 93,  1,  2Рђћ333,  403 

Рђћ  141,  1Рђћ333 

7,  26, 1-3Рђћ  68 

Рђћ  26,4-7Рђћ  63 

Рђћ  42,  1,  2Рђћ313 

Рђћ  44,  1Рђћ  83 

Рђћ  50,  6Рђћ106 

Рђћ  79,  4Рђћ  16 

Рђћ  80,  3Рђћ  16 

Рђћ  87,  1Рђћ333,  35┬Ф,  403 

8,  2,  7Рђћ333,  403 

Рђћ  5,  10Рђћ333 

Рђћ  8,  11Рђћ337 

9,  2Рђћ  4 

Рђћ  6,  29Рђћ  63 

Рђћ  7,  7Рђћ334 

Рђћ  10,  17Рђћ  76 

10,  1,  23Рђћ334,  403 

Рђћ  2,  7Рђћ  23 

Рђћ  3,  9Рђћ  H 

Рђћ  7,  25Рђћ  11 

Рђћ  7, 7ff.Рђћ  18  f. 
Рђћ8,  2,  11,  44Рђћ  19  Рќа 

Рђћ  8,  29Рђћ258 

11,  2,  1-31Рђћ 334ff.,  403 

Рђћ  6,  2Рђћ115 

Рђћ  6,  9Рђћ338,  403 


510 


INDEX. 


Athaxva-veda,  continued Рђћ 
Рќа  12,         1,     8Рђћ  24 

Рђћ  4,  17Рђћ338,  403 
13  2,  26Рђћ     5 

Рђћ  4,  4,  26  ff.Рђћ 338,403f. 
15,         5, 1-7Рђћ338 

18,  1,  40Рђћ308 

19,  10,     9Рђћ  84 

Рђћ  53,  10Рђћ  27 

20,  17,     6Рђћ106 

Рђћ  87,     3Рђћ103 

Рђћ  89,     9Рђћ106 

Рђћ  99,     2Рђћ104 

Рђћ  106,  26Рђћ  89 

Рђћ  Ill,     1Рђћ  89 

Рђћ  114,     1Рђћ104 

Рђћ  126,     1Рђћ106 
Atigrahyas,  62 
Atikaya,  son  of  Havana, 

412 

Aufrecht  (Prof.  Th.),  his 
aid  acknowledged,  7, 59, 
78,  81,  84,  90  f.,  102, 
106,117,152,232,261, 
302,  306,  310,  314, 409, 
411,  494,  602,  504 

his   Catalogue  of 

SanBkritMSS.,161,188, 
228,  etc. 

Aupamanyaya,  88,  505 

Aurnavahha,  64  ff.,  97, 
,  156,  439 

ALvindhya,  Minister  of  Ra- 
vana,  413 

B. 

Bahhru,  212 
Badari,  188,  232,  etc. 
Bahlkas,  328,  339 
BahTrich  S'ruti,  144 
Balarama    or    Baladera, 

246,  249,  258,  260 
Balaiama  incarnation,  156 
Bali,  133  ff.,  155,  465 
Banerjea's  (Rev.  K.  M.) 
dialogues  on  Hindu  phi- 
losophy, 49 
Bangas,  246 

Benfey's  (Prof.  Th.)  Glos- 
sary to  Sama-Teda,  11, 
81  f.,  102 

translation  of  Sama- 

veda,  63  f.,  87,  89 

of  Rigveda,  in 

Orient  und  Occident, 
63f.,  68,102,  229,  302, 
315  f. 

Bhadra,  212 
Bhadrakall,  416 


Bhaga,  14,  80,  116 
his  eyes  knocked 

out  hy  Kudra,  200,  268, 

383 
Bhagavadgita,  169,  381 
^ 3,  20  ff.,  and  4, 

7  f.,  quoted,  63,  153 
Bhagavata  Purana  quoted 

1,  3,      7Рђћ  36 

Рђћ  3,  Iff.,  &  26  f.Рђћ 166 

Рђћ  3,     16Рђћ  27 

2,  5,     34Рђћ  44 

Рђћ  6,21ff.Рђћ  10 

Рђћ  10,     10Рђћ  44 

3,  12, 28ff.Рђћ  47 

Рђћ  20,12ff.Рђћ 43 

Рђћ  26, 50ff.Рђћ  43 

Рђћ  30,     10Рђћ381 

4,  1, 47ff.Рђћ 378 
-^   Sects.  2-7Рђћ 377  ff. 

Рђћ  6,     20Рђћ202 

Рђћ  26,  6Рђћ381 
6,  19,  6Рђћ456 
6,  6,  24,     36Рђћ121 

Рђћ  6,     41Рђћ202     ' 
8,  Sects.  15-23Рђћ 137  ff. 

Рђћ  23,     29Рђћ  72 

Рђћ  24,  4ff.Рђћ  39 
10,        l,21ff.Рђћ 254 

Рђћ  33,  27ff.Рђћ49f.,  182,253 

Рђћ  34,       8Рђћ249 

Рђћ  Sects.  43  ff.Рђћ 215 

Рђћ  64th  and  previous  sect- 

ionsРђћ 178 

Рђћ  74,     34Рђћ206 
Bhagiratha,  365 
Bharadfaja,  96,  486 
Bharata,epithetof  Agni,28 
Bharata,  brother  of  Rama, 

175,  445  f. 
Bhava,  43,  328,  332 
Bhavas,  331 
Bhavanl,  406 
Bhavitra,,  81 
Bhimasena,  211 
Bhishma,  206 
Bhishmaka,  215 
Bhogavala,  253 
Bhoja,  253 
Bhngu,  177 

reviles  Rudra,  382 

his  beard  plucked 

out  by  Rudra,  383 
Bhrigus,  140 
Bhu,  14 

Bhur,  bhuvah,  svar,  25 
Bhutadi,  42  f. 
Bhuvana,  9,  369 
Boar,  or  Varaha,  39,  67 


Boar  incamatioA,  27, 33  f., 

36  ff,  166,390 
Bohtlingk     and     Roth's 

Lexicon,  13,  and  passim 
Bollensen's-  (Dr.)  articles 

in  Jour.  Germ.  Or.  Soc, 

and  Benfey's  Orient  und 

Occident,  306  f. 
Bombay  edition  of  Rama- 

yana,  33, 131,  &  passim 
Brahma,  7, 19  f.,  29  f.,  and 

passim 
Brahma  (the  Veda),  22 
Brahma,  10,  18,  31  f.,  and 

passim 

bom  in  an  egg,  31  f. 

Рђћ ~  sprung    from     the 

waters  and  ether,  33 

becomes  a  boar,  33, 39 

takes  the  form  of  a 

fish,  38 
called  Narayana,  31, 

37,  39,  164 
springs  from  a  lotus 

issuing   from  Vishnu's 

navel,  43,  230, 267,  477 
his  passion  from  his 

own  daughter,  47  f. 
the  first  god  in  the 

Trimurji,  163,  280 
graUts  boons  to  Ha- 
vana and  Atikaya,  etc., 

167,  412,  458,  470 
informs  Rama  of  his 

divinity,  181 
created    by  Rudra, 

188,  194 
created  by  Krishna, 

or   Vishnu,   230,   267, 

273 
worships  Linga  and 

Rudra,  192  f. 
acts  as  charioteer  to 

Rudra,  222,  226 
grants  boon  to  Ta- 

raka's  sons,  223 
praises  Krishna  in  a 

hymn,  236 
is  son  of  Vasudeva, 

237 
mediates    between 

'  Vishnu,    or    Krishna, 

and  Rudra,  240,  279" 
- Рђћ  promises  to  Rudra  a 

share  in  sacrifices,  374 
is  present  at  sacri- 
fices, 167,  374,  378 
is  father  of  Daksha, 

378 


INDEX. 


511 


Brahma,  his  dispute  with 
Vishnu  allayed  by  the 
Linga,  388 

is  a  formof  Eudra,392 

Eudra  springs  ftom 

his  forehead,  392 

identified  with  the 

soul  of  the   Universe, 
367  f.      . 

curses  Kumhhakarna, 

462 

his  promise  to  the 

gods,_471 

Aditya   called   his 

lord,  475 

asks  Vishnu  to  be- 
come Preserver,  477 

welcomes  Kama   to 

heaven,  479 

is  mental  father  of 

Pulastya,  485 

offers  boons  to  Eama, 

485 

creates  the  first  wo- 
man, 496.  (See  Hiran- 
yagarbha,  Prajapati, 
Vis'vakarman). 

Brahma-kalpa,  35 

Brahman  (priest),  66 

Brahmanaspati,12, 77, 162 

Brahmavaivarta  Purana, 
182 

Brihadaranyaka,  3,  22, 24, 
'29 

Brihaddevata,  i.,  13Рђћ163 

Brihadgiri,  492 

Brihaspati,  68,  96,  152, 
154, 162 

Brihat,  96,  162 

Burnout's  Bhagavata  Pu- 
rana, 39,  147 

Buddha,  212 

incarnation,  156 

C.     . 

Chaitraratha  forest,  230, 

252  ~ 
Chandakan^ika  rishi,  292 
Charak^  Brahmana,  92 
Charana,  177 
Charvaka,Eakshasa,friend 

of  Duryodhana,  294  ff. 
Chaturmasya,  67 
Chakshusha  Mauvantara, 

120 
Chedis,  205,  215,  246 
Chhandas,  163 
Chhandogya     ITpanishad 

quoted,  12,  26,  183 


Churning  the  ocean   for 

Amrita,  50,  365 
Colebrooke's  (Mr.  H.  T.), 

Essays,  66, 1 10, 245,  etc. 
Cowell's    (Prof.    E.   B.), 

Maitri  TJpanishad,  267 
translation  of  the 

Kaushltaki  TJpanishad, 

.493 

D. 

Dadhichi,  240,  374 

Dadhikra,  85 
,  Daityas,  110 

Daiiyasenaj  350 

Daksha,  12  ff.,  28,  H5, 
117  f. 

his  sacrifice  disturbed, 

200,  240,  372  ff. 

reviles   and    curses 

Eudra,  379  f. 

his  daughters,  385 

Dambhodbhava,  235 

Danavas,  or  Danujas,  39, 
110,  167 

Dars'a,  57 

Das'aratha,  167,  171  ff. 

Dasyus,  248 

Dattatreya  incarnation, 
156 

Dawn,  daughter' of  Praja. 
pati,  45 

Death,  personified,  55, 57f. 

Devaki,  mother  of  Krish- 
na, 181,  183,  257  ff. 

Devarata,  177,  372 

Devasena,  350 

Devavati,  487 

Devayani,  154 

Devi.     See  TJma 

Devibhagavataquoted,267 

Devimahatmya  quoted, 
435  f. 

Dhammapada,  referred  to, 
201 

Dhanvantari  incarnation, 
166 

Dharma,  156, 239, 241,378 

Dhatri,  14,  96  l,  115,  204 

Dhurjati,  205 

Diti,  mother  of  Daityas, 
257,  306,  365 

Dravinodas,  95 

Dundubht,  a  Gandharvi, 
484 

Durga,  426.    See  Uma 

Durgaoharya,  commen- 
tator on  the  Nirukta,  65, 
74,  117,  161,  356,  409 


Durga-stava,  427,  498 

Durgati,  428 

Durvasas,  199,  204,  245, 

275,'  477 
Duryodhana,     disbelieves 

!&ishna's   supernatural 

character,  216ff,  220ff. 
desires  to  celebrate 

Eajasuya  sacrifice,  283, 

293 
celebrates  Vaishnava 

sacrifice,  293  f. 
Du^hana,  47^ 
Dushkanta,  457 
Dvaraka,  214,  etc. 
Dwarf    incarnation,    66, 

107  f.,  130  ff.,  156 
Dyaus,  46,  etc. 

E. 

Earth,  the  goddess,  38, 46, 
80,  161 

her  burthen  light- 
ened, 215,  256.  Com- 
pare p.  161 

Egg,  mundane,  23  ff.,  30, 
41  ff. 

Ekalavya,  249 

Ekaparna,  431 

Ekapatala,  431 

Ekavim^a-stoma,  162 

Emusha,  28  . 

Entity  and  Non-entity,  4 

Euripides,  his  Helena  and 
Orestes  quoted,  255 

Evayamarut,  81 

G. 

Gada,  246 

Gandhamadana,  240,  252 
Gandharas,  246,  249 
Gandharva,  6,  112,  165 
Ganes'a,  278 
Ganga,  270,  430 

her  descent,  365 

Gangadvara,  374 
Garuda,  189,  etc. 
Garudi,  363  . 

Gauri,  359,  422.  See  Uma 
Gautama,  49,  496 
Gaviputra,  482 
Gayas'iras,  65 
Gayatrl,  123,  161 
Genesis,  Book  of,  48 
Gharma,  96,  126 
Ghora  Angirasa,  183 
Girivraia,  288 
Gods,  how  they  became 
immortal,  54 


512 


INDEX. 


Gode,  how  they  became  su- 
perior to  the  Asuras,  68 

how  they  became  un- 
equal, 61 

by  birth  are  alone 

objects  of  sacrifice,  131  ; 
"  work  -  gods  "  may 
themselves  offer  sacri- 
fice, 132,  496 

Gokarna,  284 
Goldstiicker's  (Prof.  Th.) 

Panini,  or  Manavakalpa 

Sutra,  6,  169 
Sanskrit  Dictionary, 

62 
Gopati,  253 
Gopis,  50  f. 
Gorresio's  Eamayaiia,  34, 

and  passim 

opinion    regarding 

Bama's  incarnation, 
447,  481 

opinion    regarding 

S'iva's  worship  in 
Southern  India,  411 

remark  by  him,  415 

Govinda,  38,  219 
Graha  (Eahu),  190 
Grahas,  62 

Guha,350.  SeeKarttikeya 
Gunas,  43 


Habakkuk,  iii.  6Рђћ72 
Hall  (Dr.  Fitzedward),  his 
aid  acknowledged,  374, 
377,  407 

his  edition  of  "Wilson's 

Vishnu  Purana,  3,  and 
passim 
Hansa,  name  of  Krishna, 

264 
Hansa;  name  of  Brahma, 

490 
Hanumat,  456 
his  merits  as  a  gram- 
marian, 490 
Hari,  39.     See  Vishnu 
Harivaiiis'a  quoted,  or  re- 
ferred to Рђћ 

line  35,-32 

43,-393 

171,-120 

549,Рђћ  13 

589,-120 

940,-431 

2725,-151 

3236,-433 

4169,-1.51 


HaiiTanl^a,  continued Рђћ 
4166,-151 
6579,-215 
6833,-260 
7418,Рђћ  83. 
9423,-435 
10235,-435 
10660,-278 
11548,-120 
12195,-151 
12425,-   32 
12456,-120 
12900,-151 
Sections  183f,Рђћ 178 
Hang's  (Prof.  M.)  trans- 
lation of  the  Aitareya 
Brahmana,  9,  84,  290, 
320,  493' 

dissertation  by  him 

referred  to,  289 
Hayagriva,  39 
Heaven  (svar),  80 
Heti,  486 

Himalaya,  230,  269 
Himavat,  385,  430 
Hiranyagarbha,  15ff,  31ff', 

188,  355,  388 
Hiranyaka^ipu,  190,  215. 
Hiranyapura,  234. 
Hotri  priest,  66 
Human  sacrifices,  whether 
practised  iu  the  Vedic 
age,  289  . 
Hri,  168 
Hrishikefe'a,  181,  208,  etc. 

I. 

Ikshvaku,  445 

Ila,  161 

Immortality,  how  acquired 

by  the  gods,  54  ff. 
Incarnation  of  a  portion  of 

Vishnu,  253 
of  white  and  black 

hairs  of  Vishnu,  267  ff. 
Indha,  22 
Indiscbe  Studien  (Prof.  A. 

"Weber's),  referred  to  or 

quoted,  23',  28, 123,200, 

277,  etc. 
Indra,  15,  20,  22, 25  f.,  40, 

48,  61,  64,  66, 160,  etc. 

texts  in  wliich  his 

greatness  is  celebrated, 
99ff. 

celebrated  conjointly 

withVishnu,  74,  78,  83, 
86 

with  other  gods,  108 


Indra  conquered  by  ludra- 

jit,  495 
Рђћ  corrupts  Ahaly5,49,496 
Indradyumna,  253 
Indrajit,  son  of  Eayana, 

and  conqueror  of  Indra, 

411,  417  ff,  460,  494 
IndranT,  405 
Interpolated   passages  in 

Eamayaga,  479 
Indu  (soma),  77 
Iravati,  253 
Isaiah,  xi.  6Рђћ190 
xl.  22;  xlv.  12, 18-86 


Jagaii,  123,  162 

Jaiglshavya,  432 

Jaimini,  criticized  by  Com- 
m  mtator  on  Bamayana, 
496 

Jamadagni,  177,  322 

Jambavat,  146 

JambaTati,wifeof  Krishna, 
189 

Jambha,  234,  245,  249 

JambudvTpa,  440 

Janaka,  father  of  Sita, 
176,  372,  464  f. 

Janaloka,  38,  146,  388 

Jara,  rakshasT,  a  house- 
hold goddess,  291 

Jarasandha,  212,  245 

destines  human  vic- 
tims for  Eudra,  288  ff. 

slain  by  Bhlmasena, 

291 

his  birth  related,  291 

Jslruthi,  253 

Javali,  171 

Jayadratha,  184,  186,286 

worships  Eudra,  286 

Jayanta,  an  Aditya,  118 

Jayanta,  son  of  Indra,  495 

JayantJ,  daughterof  India, 
153  f. 

Jayatlvtha,  300 

Jiva,  44 

Job  xxvi.  7Рђћ101 

Journal  of  American  Ori- 
ental Society,  referred 
to  or  quoted,  48,  398 

Jvara  (fevei-),  374 

Jyeshtha  suman,  193 

Jyotishtoma,  62 

K. 

Ka(Prajapati  or  Ka^yapa), 
16,  138 


INDEX. 


513 


Kaikasi,  mother  of  Eavana, 
487  f. 

Kaikeyi,  173, 175,  446  f. 

Kailasa,  230,  etc. 

iEaitabha,  a  Danava,  230, 
433,  435 

Kaivalya  Upanishad,  362 

Kalakanjas,  234 

Kalanemi,  an  asura,  254 

Kali,  416,  425,  427,  429. 
See  Uma. 

Kalin^a,  202,  249 

Kalki  incarnation,  156 

Kamalasana  (Brahma),  43 

Kambojas,  243 

KanadhQmapenance,152f. 

┬Бandai'pa,  364 

Kanyakumarl,  427 

Kansa,  245,  256,  480 

Kapardin,  epithet  of  Eudra, 
301,  394 

epithet  of  Pushan,  301 

oftheTritsus,  301 

Kapila  incarnation,  166 

Karali,426,429.  See  Uma 

Karna,  221  ff,  227  f. 

KartaTlrya,  253 

Karttikeya,  his  birth  ac- 
cording to  the  Maha- 
bharata,  349 

according    to    the 

Eamayana,  364 

Karusha,  214 

Kaserumat,  263 

Kas'yapa,  13^27,  33  f,  118, 
133,  136, 177,  322,  369 

Kataka,  commentator  on 
the  Eamayana,  on  inter- 
polations in  that  work, 
480  f. 

Eathaka,  319,  396 

Eatyayana'e  srauta  sutras, 
126 

Katyayani,  360,  426 

E;ausalya,171,173,176,446 

Kaushitaki  Brahmana, 
343,  423 

Kau^ika,  193 

Kaus'iki,  434 

Kaustubha  gem,  263 

Kena  ITpamshad,  quoted, 
420 

Ke^in  (the  long-haired), 
318  \ 

Kes'iu  (his  ear),  336 

Ees'in  (a  Danava),  350 

Ketumati,  487 

Ehandaparasu,  240 

Khandasa,  128 

Khandava  forest,  161,  246 


Khara,  a  rakshasa,  brother 

of  Eavana,  471,  482 
Kirapurusha,  289 
Kirata,  form  of,  taken  by 

Eudra,  230 
Kirti,  168 
Ko&la  Videhas,  328 
Kratha,  253 
Krjsanu,  75,  3l6 
Kiishna,hisadulteries,48ff. 
his  self-consciousness, 

178 
identified  with  Eama, 

181     ' 
son  of  DevakT,  and 

pupil  of  Ghora,  183 

renders  homage  to 

Mahadeva,  186  ff. 

receives  boons  from 

Mahadeva  and  Uma,  196 

is  a  great  devotee,  261 

performs  a  ceremony 

for  a  son,  259 

recommends  worship 

of  Dnrga,  205 

his  supernatural  cha- 
racter disputed  by  S'is'u- 
pala  and  Duryodhana, 
205 ff,  281 

explanation  of  his 

names,  218 

identified  with  the 

rishi  Narayana,  186, 228 

his       supernatural 

power  and  various  ex- 
ploits, 245 

produced   from  the 

black  hair  of  Vishnu, 
257  ff. 

identified  with  the 

Supreme  Spirit,  60, 208, 
240,  264  ff. 

Brahma  and  Eudra 

produced  from  him,  230, 

267,  273 
Рќа Рђб  one  with  Eudra,  268, 

280 
his  fight  with  Eudra, 

279 
goes  to  D  varavati  from 

fear  of  Jarasandha,  288 

summary  of   views 

regarding  him,  281  f. 

Krita  age,  196 

Krittikas,  360 

KshayadvTra,  sense  of  the 
word,  301  f,  399,  607 

Kuenen's  (Prof.  A.)  Histo- 
risch  -  Kritisoh  Onder- 
zoek  referred  to,  320 


Kuhn's  (Prof.)  opinion  re- 
ferred to,  424 

Kuhn  and  Schleicher's 
Breitrage,,  etc.,  81 

Knlluka  on  Manu,  3,  31. 

Kumara,  151 

Kumara  (a  boy) ,  applied  to 
Agni,  341 

Kumarila  Bhatta,  48 

Kumbhakarna,  brother  of 
Eavana,  4'62,  482 

Kurma  (tortoise)  incarna- 
tion, 27,  156 

Kurma  Purana,  376.  472 

Kurukshetra,  126,  128 

Ku^a,  son  of  Eama,  478 

Kutsa,  162 

Kuvera,  180,  366,  482  f, 
486 


Langlois's  Harivam^a,  260 
Lassen's  (Prof.  Christian) 
Indische  Alterthums- 
kunde,  or,  Indian  Anti- 
quities, referred  to,  136, 
169,  211,  243, 245,  283, 
etc. 
Lakshmana,  brother  of 
Eama,  175,  445,  etc. 

wounded  by  Indrajit, 

449  ff. 

ascends  to  heaven,478 

Lakshmi,  182,  450  f,  460, 

465 

Lava,  son  of  Rama,  478 

Linga  Purana  quoted Рђћ 

1,    3,  2'8  ffРђћ 42 

1,    4,  59  ffРђћ 39 

1,  17,  0-52Рђћ386 

1,  19,  8ff  Рђћ 391 

2,  28  Рђћ426 
Linga  worship,  192,  405ff. 
Lingin  (receptacle  of  the 

linga),  388 
Lokamprina,  67 
Lokayatikas,  138 
Madhu,aDanava,  230, 435 
Madhuki,  a  muni,  123 
Madhura,  a  city,  478 
Madhusudana,  133 
Maghavat  (Indra),  105  f. 
Mahabharata,  quoted   or 
referred  to Рђћ 
i.  Adiparvan. 

1215-219 

2519Рђћ118 

2592Рђћ11 

2598Рђћ118 

2785Рђћ60 

33 


514 


INDEX. 


Mahabharata,  continued. 

7949Рђћ286 

7306Рђћ259 

8196Рђћ246 

ii.  Sabia-parvan. 

582Рђћ297 

626Рђћ287 

653Рђћ288 

729Рђћ291 

861Рђћ289 

869Рђћ278 

1211Рђћ205 

1333Рђћ206 

1410Рђћ212 

iii.  Vana-parTan. 

166ff.Рђћ 117f.,474 

192Рђћ371 

461Рђћ229 

471Рђћ251 

484Рђћ136 

615Рђћ216 

1513Рђћ184,  230 

6054Рђћ284 

8166Рђћ285 

8349Рђћ285 

10209Рђћ369 

10316Рђћ  48 

10368Рђћ388 

10932Рђћ  38 

.11001Рђћ284 

12797Рђћ  38 

14287Рђћ351 

14427Рђћ350 

15274Рђћ293 

16777Рђћ286 

15872Рђћ481 

15999Рђћ285 

16148Рђћ413 

16492Рђћ413 

16529Рђћ415 

iv.  Virata-parvan. 

178Рђћ425,  433 
Y.  TJdyoga-parvan. 
130Рђћ243 
147Рђћ243 
320Рђћ261 
414Рђћ496 
1875Рђћ247 
1917Рђћ232 
2527Рђћ216 
2560Рђћ218 
3459Рђћ235 
3501Рђћ119 
.  4407Рђћ250 
4409Рђћ210 
4418Рђћ 22Q 
vi.  Bhisbma-paivan. 
793  ff.Рђћ 205,  432 
2932Рђћ236 


Mababbarata,  continued. 

vii.  Drona-parvan. 

382Рђћ244 

401Рђћ191 

419Рђћ236 

2224Рђћ479 

2355Рђћ243 

2838Рђћ184 

9575Рђћ203 

9632Рђћ199 

viii.  Karna-parvan. 

1625Рђћ221 

is.  S'alya-parvan. 

2434Рђћ261 

3619Рђћ294 

X.  Sanptika-parran. 

289Рђћ191 

312Рђћ186 

780Рђћ406 

786Рђћ373 

xii.  S'anti-parvan. 

241Рђћ369 

1414Рђћ295 

1500Рђћ263 

1748Рђћ287 

3665Рђћ277 

6775Рђћ  35 

6805Рђћ  35 

7092Рђћ118 

10226Рђћ373 

10272Рђћ374 

12943Рђћ135 

13133Рђћ266 

13152Рђћ185,  266 

13171Рђћ  63 

13228Рђћ219 

13229Рђћ  88 

13265Рђћ238 

13337Рђћ241 

13723Рђћ393 

xii.  Anusasana-parvan. 

590Рђћ187 

1160Рђћ406 

6295Рђћ268 

6397Рђћ189 

6889Рђћ189 

7092Рђћ118 

7232Рђћ369 

7356Рђћ274 

7402Рђћ196 

7510Рђћ405 

XXV.  A^vamedbika-parvan. 

1536Рђћ275 
Mahadeva.     See  Rndra 
Mabarloka,  146,  388 
Mahat,  42 
Mabavlra,  126 
MahendTa,150.  Seelndra 
Mabidbara's  commentary 


on  Vajasaneyi  Sanbita, 

7,  16  f.,  17,  104 
Maitri  Upanishad,  quoted, 

267 
Makba,  125  ┬Ф. 
Makbavat,  126 
Makba  Vaisbnava,  128 
Malati-Madbava,  430 
Mali,  487 
Malini,  482 
Malyavat,  487 
Manasa  (a  name  of  tbe 

Creator),  35 
Mandara  (a  mountain),279 
Mandbatri      incarnation, 

156 
Mandodari,         Bavana's 

queen,  455,  466 
Man-lion  (nara-simba)  in- 
carnation, 135,  166 
Manojara     (one    of  the 

tongues  of  Fire),429,498 
Manthara,  484  f. 
Manu,  quoted Рђћ 
i.      6  ff.Рђћ 30 

Рђћ  32ff.Рђћ 35,  48 
iii.       2     Рђћ413 
Tii.    38     Рђћ413 

Tiii.     82     Рђћ48 
ix.  306     Рђћ117 

Рђћ  308     Рђћ148 
xii.     91      Рђћ30 

Рђћ  121  Рђћ164 
Manu,  tbe  bard,  27 
Mauu  Svayambbuva,  13 

Vaivasvata,  33, 113 

Manrantaras,  (Cbaksbusba 

and  Vaivasvata),  120 
Manyu,  349 

Maricbi,33f.,47,118, 120 
Marka,  165 
Markandeya,  279 
Рђћ Рђћ  Parana,  343, 

436,  497 
Marus,  128 

Maruts,  46,  68,  76,  etc. 
Martanda,  13,  16,  US 
Matapariksha,  ,49 
Matsya  (or  Fish)  incarna- 
tion, 156 
Matsya  Purana,  45 

quoted,  48 

47th  section 

of,  abstracted  &  quoted, 

151  ff. 
Maya,  an  Asura,  223 
Megbanada  (or  Indrajit), 

son  of  Eavana,  450, 496 
Mena,  wife  of  Himavat, 

385,  4S0  f. 


INDEX. 


515 


Mern,  42 

Mithila,  175 

Mitra,  14,  68,  74 

Moleaworth's  Marathi  Dic- 
tionary, S3 

Mrida,  379.     See  Eudra 

Mridani,  405 

Miij'avat,  322 

Miiller's  (Prof.  Max)  edi- 
tion of  Eigveda,  314 

his  translation  of 

ditto,  66,  68,  106,  111, 
301,  314 

Ancient  Sanskrit 


Htsratnre,  6, 17,48,103, 
108, 113,  129,  289  f. 
Рќа  tranalati┬Фn  by  Mm 


in  Zeitschr.  der  D.  M .  G., 
105 

-  article  on  funeral 


rites  of  the  Brahmans  in 
ditto,  415 
his    aid    acknow- 


ledged, 498  ^ 
Mundaka  TJpanishad,  29 

Zl i.  2,  4 429 

Muni,  the,  318  f. 
Munjakes'avat,  240 
Mura,  245,  250 
MOradeva,  410  ' 

N. 

Nagnajit,  245,  249 

Nahnm,  i.  3 Рђћ 64 

Nairuktas  (or  etymolo- 
gists), 66,  92,  159 

Nalakuvara,  461,  485 

Namuchi,  slain  by  Indra 
with  foam,  261,  472 

Kand┬Фvara,  380,  460  f. 

Nara,  31f.,  119, 156, 185, 
228  ff. 

Narah,  31  f. 

Narada,  269 

incarnation,  156 

denounces  Brahma, 

Preface,  vi. 

Narada-pancharatra,  edi- 
ted by  Eev.  K.  M. 
Banerjea,  Preface,  Ti. 

Naraka,  an  Asura,  246, 250 

Narasams'a,  96 

Narasams'a  hymns,  169 

Narayana,  31  f,  37,  119, 
156,  186,  228  ff.' 

Nara-simha,  or  man-lion 
incarnation,  135,  166, 
216 

Narayana,  commentator  on 
the  Mahabharata,  119 


Narayanas,   cowherds    so 

called,  243 
Narayanlya     TTpanishad, 

426 
Narmada  river,  140 
Nelkunda,  427 
Nidra  Kalarupini,  433 
Nighantu Рђћ 

2,  7',  10, 17Рђћ310,  316 
2,  10Рђћ103 
2,  17Рђћ74 
5,    3Рђћ159 
Nikumbhila,  place  of  sac- 
rifice, 416 
Nllakantha,      name      of 

Eudra,  427 
Nilakantha,  commentator 
on   the    Mahabharata, 
260,  266 
NSlarudra 

quoted,  363 
Nimi,  372 
Nirmochana,  250 
Nirriti,  78,  313 
Nirukta,    quoted    or   re- 
ferred to Рђћ 

1,   15Рђћ366,  403 
1,   17-320 

1,  20Рђћ69 

2j  6,  7Рђћ69,  73 

2,  11Рђћ441 
2,   13Рђћ117 

2,  17Рђћ74 

3,  7Рђћ166 
3,    10Рђћ190 

3,  21Рђћ19 

4,  19Рђћ71 

4,  24Рђћ310 

6,  7,  8, 9Рђћ88, 605 

5,  11Рђћ81 

6,  11Рђћ332 
6,   15Рђћ8, 11 
6,    17Рђћ82 

6,  22Рђћ75 

7,  4ffРђћ 66,167ff. 
7,   26Рђћ74 

7,  29Рђћ114 

8,  11Рђћ309 

9,  1Рђћ28,  and  35  ffРђћ 169 

9,  9Рђћ169 
9,    10Рђћ310 

10,   OffРђћ 299,  314 
m,        10Рђћ100 
10,   26Рђћ9 
10,   27Рђћ8 
10,    32Рђћ111 

10,  44Рђћ71 

11,  9Рђћ310 
11,        23-13,  159 
11,        49Рђћ420 


Nirukta,  continued Рђћ 
12,        19Рђћ64, 156 
12,        23Рђћ71 
12,        26Рђћ318  f. 
12,        36Рђћ115 

Nirukta,  Parisishta Рђћ Рќа 
1       Рђћ114       . 

1,  1Рђћ104 

2,  1Рђћ71 
2,  10Рђћ8 
2,  12Рђћ94 
2,  21Рђћ76 

Nishad,  a  sort  of  treatise, 

266 
Nishadas,  328 
Nieunda,  252 
Nivatakavachas,  234 

0. 

Ogha,  a  rakshasa,  250 

P. 

PadmaPurana,  quoted,27  8 
Padma-kalpa,  37 
Panchadas'astoma,  162 
Panchajana,  an  asura,  246 
Panchavimla     Brahmana 

quoted,  129  _ 
Panchi,  a  muni,  123 
Panini,  406,  490,  602 
Pankti  metre,  162 
Pannagas,  199 
Parameshthin,  19,  26. 
Para^urama,     166,     170, 

175  ff,  227,  287 
Parinah,  128 
Parijata  tree,  246 
Paris'rit,  57 

Parjanya,  82,  111,  120,160 
Parvatl.     See  TJma,   and 

Himavat 
Pas'ubandha,  57 
Pa^upati,  289,  336f.    See 

Eudra.- . 
Pas'upata  weapon,  184, 232 
Pas'upata  rite,  361 
Patala,  38,  110 
Paulomas,  234 
Periplus,  427 
Pictet's     (M.     Adolphe) 

Origines      Indo-Euro- 

peennes,  81 
Pinakin,  191.     See  Eudra 
PiSiachas,  188 
Pitha,  246 
Pliny,  427 
Prfibhasa,  262 
Piachyas,  328 
Pradhana,  3,  42,  194,  388 

See  Prakriti. 


616 


INDEX. 


Pradyumna,son  of  Krishna, 

221,  246,  435 
Pragjyotisha,  214,  253 
Praheti,  486 

Prahrada,  149,  152, 154  f. 
Prajapati,  8,  15, 17ff,  28f, 

33,  37,  54  ┬БF,  97 
created  by  the  gods 

out  of  seven  men,  22 

creates  the  Veda,22 

creates  the  waters. 


22,  439 

born  in  an  Egg,  25 

takes  the  form  of 


a  tortoise,  27 

-Agni,  Indra,  etc., 

spring  from  him,  26 
-producedAgui  from 


his  inouth,  28 

is  Daksha,  28 

Рќа  is  supporter  of  the 


uniTerse,  28 

seeks  to  conquer 


worlds,  29 

Рќа  his  passion  for  Ms 


own  daughter,  45 

-  half  of  him  mortal. 


65 

Рђћ Рќа Рђћ  father  both  of  Gods 
and  Asuras,  59 

Рќа  gives  names  to  the 


Kumara,  341,  345 

produces     Agni, 


Vayu,  Chandramas,  and 
Ushas,  345 

gods  depart  from 


him,  348.   See  Brahma. 
Prajapati  in  a  secondary 

sense  applied  to  Kas'- 

yapa,  Manu,  138,  273 
Prakriti,  263,  389.     See 

Pradhana 
Pralambha,  245 
Pramathas,  379 
Prab'itra,  200 
Prasuti,  daughter  of  Manu, 

and  wife  of  Daksha,  378 
Prathas,  96 
Pravargya,  126,  128 
Prayati,  4 

Prisni,  309,  311,  333 
Pris'nigarbha,  264 
Prishthas,  162 
Pritha,  mother  of  Arjuna, 

53  f.,  63,  185 
Prithivi,  161 
Prithuras'mi,  492 
Prithu  incarnation,  156 
Pulastya,  482,  485 
Puloman,  495 


Punjikasthala,  daughter  of 

Varuna,  458,  462 
Punjishthas,  328 
Purandara  (Indra),  120 
Purandhi,  82 
Purikayas,  337 
Purnamasa,  57 
Puru,  103 
Pururavas,  457 
Purusha,  10,  19,  33,  42, 

44,  73,  194 
Purusha  incarnation,  156 
Purusha  Narayana,  29 
Purusha-sukta,  10,  29 
Purushottama,  262 
Purushottama      of      the 

Chedis,  297 
Pushan,  68,76, 95, 116, etc. 
his  teeth  knocked 

out  by  Eudra,  200,  383 
Pushpotkata,    mother    of 

Eavana,'4i82,  487 
Putana,     female'    demon 

killed  by  Krishna,  210 
Putrlya  ishti,  170 

R. 

Eadheya,  286 
Eahu,  190 
Eaivata-saman,  163 
Eaghuvam^a   quoted,  53, 

Рќа117,  138,  153 
Eajas,  11,  71,  267,  276 
Eajendralal  Mitra  (Babu), 

his  translation   of   the 

Chhandogya  Upanishad 

(juoted,  26 
Eajasas,  337 

Rajasuya  sacrifice,205, 287 
Eaka,  482,  487 
Eakshasas,    their     origin 

and  early  history,  486 
did  they  specially 

worship  Eudra  ?  411 
Eama,  represented  as  an 

incarnation  of  Vishnu, 

168  ff. 
his  miraculous  birth 

discussed,  170ff.,  441  ff., 

481 
ignorant  of  his  own 

nature,  180 
told  by  Brahma  who 

he  is,  181 
the     gods     anxious 

about  him,  447 
oongratulatedbygods, 

472 
says  he  can  easily  de- 
stroy Eakshasas,  476 


Eama  wounded  by  Indra- 
jit,  450 

recovers  his  senses, 

452 

told  by  Vayu  who  he 

is,  453 
does  not  know  Garu- 

da,  463 

defeats  Eavana,  457 

defied  by  Eavana,463 

advised  to  utter  a 

hymn  to  the  Sun,  473 

.  his  divinity  owned  by 

Mandodari,  467 

ascends   to   heaven, 

479 

Ramayana  quoted  or  re- 
ferred to Рђћ 

i.  Bala-kanda. 
1,  4,  81ff.,84i'86Рђћ 443 

1,  13  &  18Рђћ442 

2,  32Рђћ443 

3,  3  ff.Рђћ 441 

4,  14Рђћ442 
8,      1Рђћ170 

11,      1Рђћ170 

11,  20-171 

12,  Рђћ171 

13,  36Рђъ  54-171 

14,  1Рђћ166 

16,  1Рђћ173 

17,  1Рђћ173 

18,  1  ff.Рђћ 173,  444 

19,  1  ff.Рђћ 174 
19,    lOff.- 444 

23,  10Рђћ164 

29,  9-250 

31,  2  ff,Рђћ 130 

32,  2  ff,Рђћ 132 
36,     20Рђћ364 

36,  13Рђћ430 

37,  3,  6Рђћ364  f. 
42  &  43    Рђћ365 
46,     21Рђћ366 
46,     26Рђћ  60 

48,  16  ff.Рђћ  48 

49,  1  ff.Рђћ  49 
66,  7Рђћ372 
66,  13Рђћ464 
76,  14Рђћ176 

ii.  Ayodhya-kanda. 
108,  3Рђћ138' 

110,  2Рђћ  33 

119,  2Рђћ  34 

iii.  Aranya-kanda. 

24,  19Рђћ448 

30,  20Рђћ447 

30,  27Рђћ371,  471 


INDEX. 


517 


Bamayana,  continued. 

30,  36Рђћ373 

31,  10Рђћ373 

32,  5Рђћ361 
58,  1Рђћ443 
70,      2Рђћ373 

iv.  KishMndJia-kanda. 


6, 
40, 
40, 
43, 
43, 
43, 
44, 
44, 
44, 


30Рђћ371 
11Рђћ443 
54Рђћ439 
20Рђћ366 
46Рђћ480 
54Рђћ367 
27Рђћ366 
46Рђћ368 
117-367 


y.  Sundara-kanda. 
12,  39Рђћ373 

24,  44Рђћ416 

89,  1  ff.Рђћ 370,  419,  483 
91,  3Рђћ477 


Tl. 

7, 
17, 
18, 
19, 
26, 
33, 
34, 
39, 
40, 
41. 
44, 
45, 
61, 
54, 
65, 
59, 
60, 
60, 
60, 
63, 
63, 
64, 
65, 
66, 
71, 
72, 
73, 
76, 
84, 
85, 
86, 
87, 
93, 
93, 
95, 
95, 


Tuddha-kanda. 
18Рђћ412 

1Рђћ483 

22Рђћ476 

38Рђћ416 

8  ff.Рђћ 453 

25Рђћ455 

7Рђћ464 
21Рђћ441 
44Рђћ463 

2Рђћ463 
32Рђћ416 
60Рђћ449  Рќа 
17Рђћ371 
23Рђћ373 
88Рђћ371 
105-455 

5Рђћ457 
67Рђћ462 
11Рђћ462 

2Рђћ462 
13Рђћ418 
11Рђћ418 
12Рђћ419 

2Рђћ418 
28,  31Рђћ412  f. 
62Рђћ413 
37-371 
93Рђћ371 
14Рђћ418 
12-418 
14Рђћ419 

2Рђћ418 
30Рђћ413 
68Рђћ413 

6Рђћ468 
25-469 


96, 
106, 
111, 
113, 
113, 
113, 
119, 


.a, 
10Рђћ414 

1Рђћ473 
23Рђћ413 

5Рђћ466 

49Рђћ494 

112Рђћ414 

1-178 


vii.  Uttara-kanda. 


Sections  1- 
4, 


11Рђћ485  ff. . 


16, 
17, 
17, 
19, 
23, 
25, 
27, 
30, 
30, 
31, 
36, 
37, 
59, 
103  ff. 


1Рђћ460 

1Рђћ468 

35-451 

Рђћ457 

Рђћ480 

2,  7Рђћ416 

30Рђћ495  ff. 

12Рђћ -418 

19Рђћ497 

42Рђћ406',  420 

44Рђћ490 

Рђћ480 

Рђћ480 

Рђћ477 

Eamopakhyana,  story  of 
Kama,  as  told   in   the 
Vana-parvan    of    the 
Mahabhaata,  481  ff. 
llama's  story  as  related  in 
the  Drona-parvan  of  the 
Mahabharata,  479 
Eathantara,  96, 161, 193f. 
Eatnagarbha,      commen- 
tator on  Vishnu  Purana, 
quoted,  257 
Eambha,  an  Apsaras,  458, 

461 
Eatri-sukta,  498 
Eavana's  birth,  482,  488 

his  austerities,  482, 

488 

obtains  boon  from 

Brahma,  482,  488 

-  drives  Kuvera  from 


Lanka,  483 

acts  oppressively, 

Brahma  promises 
his  deetmction,  483 
woimds    Laksh- 


483 


mana,  455 

Рђб  defeated  by  Eama, 


467 


Рќа  his  reflections,  467 
sues,  and  then  in- 
sults, Vedavati,  469 

his  arms  crushed 


Eavana  violates  Eambha, 

461 
defies  Vishnu,  463, 

465 


to  be  Vishnu,  466 

-his  body  burned 


with  Brahmanical  rites, 
414 

Рђб  observes  the  Vedic 


by  Eudra,  461 


,  ritual,  413 
Eayovajlya,  492 
Ribhukshan,  76,  95,  311 
Ribhus,  80,  88,  311 
Rich,  10 
Richika,  177 

Riddhi,-wifeofKuvera,370 
Rigveda  Sanhita  quoted  or 
referred  to Рђћ 

Mandala  i. 

2,  2-76 

6,  4Рђћ314 

7,  3Рђћ99 
9,  7Рђћ310 

10,  9Рђћ160 

10,  11Рђћ193,  434 

18,  2Рђћ317 
22,  16-21Рђћ 63ff.,97,402 

22,  17  ff.Рђћ 75  ff. 

24,  8Рђћ108 

27,  10Рђћ299,  396 

27,  13Рђћ113 

32,  1Рђћ69 

32,  6Рђћ102 

32,  15Рђћ302 

33,  11Рђћ314 

33,  1Рђћ602 

34,  11-54 
39>  6Рђћ494 

43,  1-6Рђћ91,  300,  399  f. 
45,  2-64 

60,  7-71,  109 
51,  2Рђћ68 

51,  3Рђћ316,  408 

51,  5Рђћ61 

52,  8,  12-14Рђћ99 

65,  1Рђћ99 

66,  4Рђћ317 

59,  6Рђћ103,  111 

61,  7Рђћ67,  92, 603 
61,  9Рђћ99 

63,  7Рђћ103 

64,  2Рђћ300,  400 

67,  3Рђћ111 
81,  4Рђћ314 
81,  6Рђћ 99f. 

86,  1Рђћ301, 400 

86,  7-68 

90,         5,  9-68 


618 


INDEX. 


Rigveda,  continued. 
90,'  7Рђћ71 

94,  5-71 

96,  3Рђћ28,  82 

99,  Рђћ499 

102,  8Рђћ99  f. 

103,  2Рђћ100 

104,  6-315 

105,  8Рђћ410 

106,  4Рђћ302 
108,      9Рђћ70 
112,      3-302 

114,  1-11Рђћ 301  ff.,309f., 

396,  400  f. 

115,  1Рђћ111 

121,  2  f.Рђћ 100,  107 

122,  1Рђћ306 

125,  3Рђћ302 

126,  1Рђћ159 

127,  3-494 

128,  2Рђћ314  f. 

129,  3Рђћ306, 400 
131,      1Рђћ306 
154,  1-6Рђћ68  ff.,  73,  75, 

82,  97,  101 

165,  1-6Рђћ74  f.,  84,  86, 

97  f. 
156,    1-5Рђћ76  f.,  97 
164,      6Рђћ71 
164,     36Рђћ76 

166,  13Рђћ314  f. 

167,  4  f.Рђћ 410,  420 

180,  7Рђћ410 

181,  3Рђћ82 
186,  10Рђћ76 
190,      2Рђћ109 

Mandala  ii. 
1,  3Рђћ76, 97 

1,  6Рђћ306, 400 

1,  8f.Рђћ 114 
3,  11Рђћ314 

12,  If., 9, 13Рђћ 16,99,100 
16,  1-3Рђћ69,99,101 

108 
18,  4Рђћ160 

22;  1Рђћ77 

27,  1-115 

27,  10Рђћ108,  114 

28,  10Рђћ63,  76 

33,  1-15Рђћ 302,307ff. 

396,399ff. 

34,  2Рђћ309,  400 
34,             11-86 

38,  4Рђћ317 

38,  8Рђћ13 

38,  9Рђћ309 

Mandala  iii. 

2,  6Рђћ310 
6,              6-316 


? 

gveda,  continued. 

6, 

4-69,  77 

17. 

1Рђћ83 

18, 

6-82 

26, 

7-71 

30, 

6Рђћ160 

30, 

9Рђћ101 

32, 

7-9Рђћ77,  101  f.,  109 

33, 

4Рђћ109 

44, 

3Рђћ102 

47, 

1Рђћ314 

63, 

6Рђћ160 

53, 

7-306 

64, 

.     14-77,97 

65, 

10-77 

Mandala  iy. 

1, 

6-6 

2, 

4-78 

3, 

1,  6-302,  310,  400 

3, 

7Рђћ78,  97 

5, 

7,  13Рђћ 316  f. 

6, 

6Рђћ6 

7, 

7Рђћ316 

16, 

6Рђћ102 

18, 

11Рђћ 78,  97  f. 

30, 

1-99,  102 

36, 

9-310 

38, 

6-310 

SO, 

2Рђћ82 

66, 

4Рђћ79 

68, 

5Рђћ19 

Mandala  t. 

2, 

"1-341 

3, 

1-3Рђћ79,  97 

17, 

2Рђћ316 

21, 

4Рђћ316 

29, 

7-81 

41, 

2-311 

41, 

20Рђћ317 

42, 

11,  ISРђћ 311,  400 

43, 

6Рђћ317 

46, 

2-4Рђћ80 

49, 

3Рђћ504 

51, 

9Рђћ80 

51, 

13Рђћ311 

62, 

16-311,400 

54, 

6Рђћ317 

59, 

8Рђћ311 

60, 

6Рђћ311,  400 

63, 

6Рђћ71 

70; 

2  f.Рђћ 300 

73, 

5Рђћ91 

74, 

6Рђћ316 

81, 

3Рђћ72,  96 

83, 

8Рђћ6 

87, 

1,  4,  8Рђћ81,  97 

Mandala  vi. 

1, 

'11Рђћ310 

11, 

2-7 

Rigveda,  continued. 

16, 

39Рђћ312 

17, 

4Рђћ310 

17, 

7Рђћ99,  102 

17, 

11Рђћ81,  92 

20, 

2Рђћ82,  98 

21, 

9-82 

28; 

7Рђћ312,  400 

30, 

4Рђћ99,  103 

31, 

2Рђћ103 

32, 

5Рђћ109 

35, 

4-310 

38, 

3Рђћ103 

46, 

13-109 

47, 

8Рђћ160 

48, 

13  f.Рђћ 82 

49, 

10Рђћ312,  400 

49, 

13Рђћ82,  97 

50, 

2Рђћ13 

sol 

4Рђћ312,  400 

50, 

7-17 

60, 

12Рђћ82 

65, 

2Рђћ301 

66, 

SРђћ 312,  400 

69, 

1_8_83  f.,  97 

70, 

1,  5Рђћ108,  310 

72, 

2Рђћ101, 107f. 

74, 

1-4- 313,400f. 

Manclala  vii. 

1, 

'6Рђћ317 

3, 

6-80 

3, 

10Рђћ 314  f. 

10. 

4Рђћ313 

20, 

1Рђћ314 

20, 

4Рђћ99,  103 

21, 

3-8Рђћ407,  409 

31, 

7Рђћ102 

32, 16,  22  f.Рђћ 99,103,258 

33, 

1Рђћ301 

34, 

21Рђћ317 

35, 

6Рђћ313,  400 

36, 

9Рђћ84 

36, 

5Рђћ313 

36, 

8Рђћ317 

36, 

9Рђћ85 

37, 

2Рђћ314 

39, 

6Рђћ78,  86 

40, 

5Рђћ85 

41, 

1Рђћ313 

42, 

3-317 

44, 

1Рђћ85 

46, 

1-4Рђћ314,  400 

66, 

1,  2Рђћ315,  400 

56, 

8-319 

68, 

6Рђћ315 

59, 

12Рђћ321 

60, 

6Рђћ314  L 

66, 

3Рђћ148 

78, 

4-314 

INDEX. 


519 


Rigveda,  continued. 


82, 
83, 
86, 
86, 
87, 
87, 
93, 
98, 
99, 

100, 

101, 
103, 
104, 


1, 
3, 
7, 
9, 
10, 
12, 


5Рђћ108 
8Рђћ301 
1Рђћ108 
4Рђћ314 
1,  2Рђћ102,  109 
6-69 
8-85 
3Рђћ99,  103,  111 
1-7Рђћ72,  75,  86f., 

97  f.,  604 
1-6Рђћ 82,  86  f.,  97, 
307,  604 
4Рђћ111 
7Рђћ81 
12,  24-410 

Mandala  viii. 
21Рђћ68 
6,  8Рђћ104 
Рќа     10Рђћ81 
12Рђћ88,  97 
2Рђћ89 
8Рђћ604 


12,  16,  26ff.-;89,  98 
13, 

1*, 
16, 

17, 
17, 
19, 
20, 
20, 
20, 
Рќа20, 
21, 
22, 
22, 
26, 
26, 
26, 
27, 
28, 


20Рђћ316 

13Рђћ261 

8  ff.Рђћ 89,  98 

12Рђћ190 

14Рђћ319 

10Рђћ302 

3Рђћ85 

7Рђћ314 

17Рђћ316,  400 

23Рђћ300 

13Рђћ15, 100,  104 

1Рђћ506 
13  f.Рђћ 300,  316 
5Рђћ82 
11-14Рђћ89,  402 
5Рђћ300 
8Рђћ90 
6Рђћ305 


29,  1-10Рђћ90  f.,  97,  400 


30, 
31, 
31, 
32, 
35, 
36, 
37, 


1Рђћ113 
10Рђћ91 
12Рђћ317 
10Рђћ82 
1,  14Рђћ91 
4Рђћ104 
3Рђћ104 


42,1,2,10Рђћ109,111,317 


48, 
61, 
57, 
69, 
61, 
64, 
66, 


3Рђћ357 
2Рђћ76,  104 
1Рђћ86 
5Рђћ104 
3Рђћ316 
12Рђћ106 
4Рђћ81 


Rigveda,  contimued. 

67,  6Рђћ106 

72,  7Рђћ93 

77,  3-101 

77,  4Рђћ105 

78,  5Рђћ105 
82,  11Рђћ105 

85,  6Рђћ68 

86,  9Рђћ106 

87,  2Рђћ106 
89,  3  f.Рђћ 337 

89,  '     12Рђћ78,  97  f. 

90,  11  f.Рђћ 109 


66,   10Рђћ27,  91,  97,  602 


1, 

4, 

6, 

33, 

34, 

43, 

44, 

45, 

56, 

69, 

61, 

63, 

65, 

66, 

67, 

83, 

86, 

87, 

89, 

90, 

96, 

96, 

97, 

97, 

100, 

100, 

101, 

107, 

109, 

112, 

114, 


1, 
7, 
9, 
10, 
15, 
17, 
26, 
39, 
40, 
42, 
43, 
48, 


Mandala  ix. 

4Рђћ310 

1Рђћ113 

3Рђћ310 

3Рђћ93 

2-93 

6Рђћ310 

6-310 

6Рђћ90 

4^93 

1Рђћ114 

16Рђћ112 

3,  12Рђћ93,  310 

20Рђћ94 

18Рђћ63 

6,  10  f.Рђћ 301,  310 

6Рђћ113 
28-30Рђћ112 

6Рђћ310 

6Рђћ112 

5Рђћ94 

6Рђћ94,  98,  112, 114 

10,  14Рђћ114 

16Рђћ103 

24Рђћ112 

6-95 

8Рђћ113 
13Рђћ126 

7Рђћ113 

4^113 

4Рђћ410 

3-115 

Mandala  x. 

"  3Рђћ95,  97 

6Рђћ7,9 

5Рђћ302 

Рђћ48 

3Рђћ606 

3Рђћ162 

1Рђћ314  f. 

11Рђћ316 

12Рђћ316 

9Рђћ106 

6-106 

3Рђћ106 


Rigreda,  eontintied. 

61,'  4-7Рђћ46 

61,  19Рђћ341 

64,  8Рђћ316 

64,  16-317 

66,  1Рђћ95 

66,  3Рђћ317 

66,  4  f.Рђћ 95 

69,  3  -310 
72,     1-9-11  f.,  28,  116 

75,  9Рђћ161 

79,  3Рђћ316 

81,  1-7-5  ff.,  30 

82,  1-7Рђћ5  ff. 

85,  37Рђћ410 

86,  1Рђћ106,  114 
86,  16  f.Рђћ 410 

88,  10Рђћ66 

88,  11Рђћ114 

90,  Рђћ282 

90,  2Рђћ105 

90,  16Рђћ23 

92,  6,  9-317,  400 

92,  11Рђћ95 

93,  4,  7Рђћ317 

94,  2Рђћ161 

95,  4  f.-19 
99,  1-8Рђћ408  f. 

102,  8-301 

109,  1Рђћ24 

110,  6Рђћ309 

111,  1-6-99,  101,  107  f. 
113,  1  f.Рђћ 98 

116,  2Рђћ160 

121,  1-10Рђћ15,  71 

125,  6Рђћ318,  400 

126,  6Рђћ318 

127,  1-8Рђћ304, 498 

128,  2Рђћ96 

129,  1-7Рђћ3  f. 

133,  2Рђћ15,  100,  107 

134,  1Рђћ25,    99,  107 
136,  1-7Рђћ318 

138,  3Рђћ99 

139,  5Рђћ71,112 

140,  1Рђћ310 

141,  3,  5-96 

142,  2Рђћ301 
149,  1Рђћ101, 108, 110 
164,  3Рђћ278 

168,  3  f.Рђћ 16 

169,  1Рђћ320 
171,  2Рђћ126 

180,  2Рђћ69 

181,  1-3Рђћ96 
184,  1Рђћ96 
Rishalilia'mcaTnation,  156 
BisMka,  253 

Rishis,  22 
Bishyas'ringa,  167,  172 


520 


INDEX. 


Ritadhaman,  180 

Eodaai,  420 

Eoer's  (Dr.  E.)  translation 

of  the  Upanishads,  421 
EoMni,  260,  262 
Eosen's    (Dr.   P.)  Latin 

translation  of  the  Rig- 

veda,  63 
Eost  (Dr.  E.),  suggestion 

made  by  him,  210 
Eoth  (Professor  Eudolph), 

article  by  him  in  Jour,  of 

the  American  Oriental 

Society,  48 

article  by   him   in 

Journal  of  German  Ori- 
ental Society,  114,  148 

his  Illustrations  of 

theNirukta,  6, 8,  9, 13, 
64,  69,  73,  81  f.,  105, 
314,  etc. 

his  remarks  on  s'ravas 

andsV┬Ф,  494. 

See  Bohtlingk  and  Eoth 
Eudra,  42,  45,  60 
Eudra,  as  represented  in 

the  Rigveda,  299  flF. 
in  the 

Tajurreda,  321  ff. 
in  the 

Atharvaveda,  332  if. 
in  the 

Brahmanas,  339  ff. 
in  the 

Upanishads,  355  ff. 
in  the 

Eamayana,  176,  364  ff., 

405 
in  the 

Mahabharata,  184^205, 

223  ff.,  230  ff.,  240  f., 

266  ff.,  278  ff.,  282  ff., 

373  ff. 

Рќа  in  the 


Bhagayata 
378  ff. 


Pur  ana, 

Рђћ  in  the 
392 

-  in  the 
Linga  Purana,  386  ff. 

in  the 

Harivam^a,  393 
Eudra  identifiedwithAgni, 
339  ff. 

' fights  with  Vishnu, 

176,  279 

fights  with  Arjuna, 

231 
Рђћ ^identified  with  Krish- 
'  na,  or  Yishuu,  280 


Eudra,his  linga,192,405ff. 

his  uncnastity,  191 

worshipped  by  Krish- 
na and  Arjuna,  184  ff., 
195 

worshipped  by  Brah- 
ma and  Vishnu,  193 

his  fight  with  Krish- 
na, 279 

the  creator  of  Brahma 

(feVishnu,  188, 193,  391 

sprungfromBrahma, 

392  f. 

sprung  from  Krishna 

or  Vishnu,  267,  273 

identified  with  Vish- 
nu, 241,  280,  384 

identified   with  the 

Supreme  Spirit,  185, 232 

disturbs      Daksha's 

sacrifice,  240,268, 372ff. 

destroys  castles  of  the 

Asuras,  203,  225  f. 

his  vigour  increased 

by  hymns,  226 

his  third  eye  formed, 

270 

his  names  applied  to 

Vishnu,  272 

prevalenceof  hiswor- 

ship  as  described  in  the 
Mahabharata,  284  ff. 

seizes  victims  atsacd- 

fice,  284 

human  victiihs  de- 
voted to  him,  288  ff. 

father  of  Maruts,  305 

curses  Kandarpa,364 

the  lord  of  thieves, 

327 

attributes  applied  to, 

or  abuse  of,  him  ex- 
plained away  by  com- 
mentators, 327,  379 

cursed  by  Daksha,380 

cursed  by  Bhrigu,  382 

plucks  out  Bhrigu's 

beard  and  Bhaga's  eyes, 
knocks  out  Pushan's 
teeth,  and  cuts  off  Da- 
ksha's, head,  383  f.  (see 
aiso  200,  268) 

formerly  general  of 

the  gods,  365 

receives  the  Ganga 

on  Ms  head,  365 

swallows  poison,  366 

his  abode,  367 

identified  with  Vi^va- 

karman,  369,  376  f. 


Eudra,  his  linga  appears  & 
allays  a  dispute  between 
Brahma  andVishnu,390 

plays  dice  with  Ku- 

vera,  483 

his    linga   worship, 

192,  405  ff. 

remarks  of  Professors 

"Wilson,  Weber,  and 
Whitney  on  him,  394  ff. 

summary  of  views  re- 
garding him,  399  ff. 

Eudra  Prajapati,  46 

Vastoshpati,  46 

Eudras,  64,  180,  331 

Eudranl,  405 

Eudravartani,  sense  of  the 
word,  316 

Eukmin,  215,  286 

EukminI,  wife  of  Krishna, 
189 

S. 

S'achi,  135 

Sadhyas,  180 

Sagara,  365 

Saint  John's  Gospel,  iii. 

8-16 
S'aivas,  385 
S'aivya,  253 

S'akapuni,  64  ff.,  97,  166 
S'akra,  105 
S'akti,  383 
Sakvara  sama,  162 
Salankatankata,  486 
S'alya,Kingof  the  Madras, 

221  ff. 
Samaveda,   parallel   pas- 
sages from>  5, 10, 63,&c. 

i.  90,  and  i.  361Рђћ27 

S'ambara,  86 
S'ambhu,  43,  367 
S'ambhu,    King    of   the 

Daityas,  459 
Sanaka,  38 
Sanandana,  38 
S'anda,  155 
Sandiyavidya,  428 
S'ankara  on  Brahma-su- 

tras  i.  3,  28,  referred  to, 

131 
S'ankhayana     Brahmana 

vi.  1  ff.,  343 
Sankhya,  3,  41,  224 
S'anta,  174 
Saprathas,  96 
Saptadas'a  stoma,  162 
Sarasvati,  35,  80,  86,  424, 

428 
Sarayu,  368,  478  f. 


INDEX. 


521 


S'arnga,  181 
S'aru,  78 

S'arva,  186,  328,  332 
Sarvamedha,  369 
S'arrani,  405 
S'atadhanvan,  253 
S'ataghni,      a      ms 

weapon,  249 
S'atapatha        Brakmana 

quoted Рђћ 

i. 

2,  3,  6  Рђћ290 

2,  5,  Iff.Рђћ 122 

7,  2,  22  Рђћ  59 

7,  2,  24  Рђћ106 

,7,  3,  1  Рђћ202 

7,  3,  8  Рђћ339,  403 

7,  3,  18  Рђћ  59 

7,  4,  1  ff.Рђћ  45,  201 

9,  2,  34  Рђћ106 


1,  1,  3 

1,  4,11 

1,  -4,  27 

2,  2,  8 
2,  4,  1 
4,  4, 


6,  2,  9 

ii 
1,  3,  3 
9,  4,  20 


Рђћ  21 

Рђћ  24 
Рђћ123 

Рђћ  58 

Рђћ  28 

Рђћ  28 
Рђћ321 


-  14,  115 

-  27 

iv. 
1,  5,  1  -  48,  129 
5,  4,  1  ff.Рђћ  61 


5, 

7, 

2  - 

-  54 

6, 

3, 

1    - 

V. 

-  66 

1, 

1, 

1 

Yl. 

Рђћ  60 

1, 

1, 

Iff. 

-20  ff. 

404 

1, 

2, 

1 

Рђћ  46 

1, 

2, 

8 

-lio 

1.2, 

13,- 

21 

Рђћ  21 

1, 

3, 

Iff 

Рђћ  21 

1, 

3, 

7ff 

Рђћ339, 

404 

2, 

1, 

1 

Рђћ  21 

3, 

1, 

18 

Рђћ  72 

6, 

2, 

11 

Рђћ  61 

6> 

3, 

2 

Рђћ  61 

7, 

1, 

17 

Рђћ  24 

8, 

1, 

14 

Рђћ  28 

4, 

1, 

19 

Рђћ  15 

4, 

3, 

5 

Рђћ  27 

5. 

-2, 

11 

Рђћ  19 

5, 

2, 

VAT 

21 

TV 

Рђћ  22 

S'atap  Brahmana,  contd. 
ix. 
1,    1,    Iff.Рђћ 330,  347 

1,  1,  6ff.Рђћ 348 

2,  2,  2  Рђћ  21 

3,  3,  2  Рђћ  56 

5,  1,  1  Рђћ  56 

6,  1,  12  ff.Рђћ  68^ 

X. 

1,  3,  Iff.Рђћ  54 
1,  4,  1  Рђћ  55 


2, 
2,2, 

2, 
2, 


1, 

1,  5 
3,18 
4,  8 

3,  5,  13 

4,  2,  2 
4,  3,  1 


4,  4, 
6,  5, 


Рђћ  29 

Рђћ  23 

Рђћ  23 

Рђћ  23 

Рђћ  56 

Рђћ  55 
r.Рђћ  56 

Рђћ  55 

Рђћ  3 


1,  2,  12  Рђћ  58 
1,  4,  4  Рђћ506 
6,  1  ff.Рђћ  17,  24 
6,  14  Рђћ  21 
8,  If.Рђћ  30,  60 
3,  1  Рђћ  29 


1, 
1, 
1, 

2; 
2, 
2, 


3,  6 
7,26 


3,  2, 
4, 
6, 
6, 


3,  4, 
7,  3, 


Рђћ  58 

Рђћ  61 

Рђћ  61 
1Рђћ56 
1Рђћ19 
8  Рђћ116 : 

xii. 

1Рђћ29 
1  Рђћ261 
xiii. 

1Рђћ29 

1Рђћ29 

1Рђћ29 

14  f.  Рђћ369 

xiv. 


1,  1,  1  -124   - 

1,  2,  11  Рђћ  27 

2,  2,  2  Рђћ  24 
4,  2,  21,  23  Рђћ  29 

7,  1,34  -131 

8,  1,  1  Рђћ258 
8,  6,  1  Рђћ  24 

S'atarudriya,    186,     193, 

199,  322  ff. 
its  object  and  name 

explained,  349 
S'atarupa,  13,  48 
Sati   (Mahadeva's   wife), 

378,  385.     See  TJma 
S'atrughna,  176,  445 
Sattva  guna,  267,  276 


Satyaloka,  388 

Saubha,   a  magical  city, 

246,  249,  etc. 
Saumanasa  peak,  440 
Saumya  adhvara,  57 
S'aurva,  328 
SauTiras,  214 
Savana,  60 
SaYarni  Manyantara,  149, 

156 
Sayityi,,  20,  72,  80,  109. 

See  Surya 
Santri,  48,  379 
Sayana,  11,  12,   14,  46, 

261,  303,  etc. 
Sayangriha  muni,  252 
Scblegel's  Eamayana,  33, 
and  passim 

his  opinion  referred 

to,  170 
Scholia   minora    on    the 

Iliad  quoted,  255 
S'esha,  110 
Siddbas,  165 
Siddhantas,  110 
Siddhanta-s'iromani,  110 
Siddba^rama,  135' 
S'ipivisbta,  87  f.,  504  ff. 
S'is'nadeva,  sense  of  the 

word,  407  ff. 
S'is'upala  disputes  Krish- 
na's right  to   honour, 
205  ff. 

bis  previous  history, 

211 

slain  by  Krishna,  215 

Sita,  daughter  of  Janaka, 
and  wife  of  Eama,  175, 
and  passim 

her  birth  from  the 

ground,  464  f. 

threatened  by  Eak- 

sbasis,  416 

sees  Eama  wounded, 

451 

was  formerly  Veda- 

vati,  460 

horn   for    Eavana's 

destruction,  460,  471 

enters  the  fire,  178 

S'itikantba,  176,  240 
S'iva,  176  (see  Eudra) 
S'iTa,  wife  of  Angiras 
Skambba,  11  f.,  18  ff. 
Skanda  (see  Karttikeya) 
Skanda  Furana,  152 
^kyCDyu),46.     rpati,45 
Sky,  daughter  of  Praja- 
Soma,  77,  80,  94f.,  108, 
113  f.,  360,  422 

34 


522 


INDEX. 


Somagiri,  367 

Speech,  22 

Sphulingini,  429,  498 

S'raddha,  27 

S'ri,  76,  168,  273,453 

S'ndhara  Svamin,  51 

S'rikantha,  241 

S'l-Ivafsa,  241,  263 

Stasinus,  Cypria,  256 

Stevenson  (Dr.),  on  the 
ante-brahm?nical  reli- 
gion of  the  ilindus,  406 

Sthanu,  165,  167 

Stomas,  162 

Sudars'ana  (name  of  Vish- 
nu's chakra),  191,  249 

Sudars'ana.  249 

S'uddhas'uddhTya,  491 

Suddhumravaina,  429 

Sugriva,  452,  idS 

Sukes'a,  486 

S'ukra,  150,  152  S.. 

Sulohita,  429,  498 

Sumali,  487,  495 

Sumitra,  173,  175 

Sunaman,  245,  249 

S'una^s'epa.  289,  300 

Sundan,  487 

Supavs'va  (minister  of  Ea- 
yana),  413 

S'urasenas,  245 

S'urpanakha,  482,  488 

Surja,  29,  61,  66 

texts  in  praise  of, 

109,  473        ^ 

,  one  of  the  triad  of 

gods,  66,  160  ff.,  298 
Surya  (goddess),  91 
S'ushna,  107 
Sutaln,  149 
Svadha,  4 

sense  of  the  word, 

314 

Svadhavat,  sense  of,  314 

Svahil,  353 

Svapivtitfi,  sense    of   the 

word,  314 
Svarat,  43 
Svayambhu,  47,  173 
Svayambhuva,  13 
S'vetadvTpa,  241 
S'vetasvatara,  Upanishad, 

355 
Svishtakrit,  200,  372 


Taittiriya,  70 

Taittiriya  Aranyaka Рђћ 
i.  14,  1  Рђћ116 
Рђћ  23,       1     Рђћ  24 


Taittiriya  Aran.,  contd. Рђћ 
V.    1,       1  ff-127 
X.     1,      8    Рђћ28,602 
Рђћ    1,  150     Рђћ422 

Taittiriya  Brahmana Рђћ 

i. 

1,  3,  5S.Рђћ  24 
4,  1,  1  Рђћ  59 
6,  1,    2     Рђћ347 

6,  4,  10     Рђћ321 

7,  1,  2  Рђћ347 
7,  1,    6     Рђћ261 

ii. 

2,  9,  9  Рђћ  25 
6,    9,    1  ff.Рђћ  21 

iii. 

1,  5,  7  Рђћ129 

2,  7,  9  Рђћ15 
2,    9,  6  Рђћ61 
4,    1,  1  Рђћ289 
9,  21,  1  Рђћ116 

10,    9,    1     Рђћ58 

12,    3,    1     Рђћ29 

Taittiriya  Sanhita Рђћ 


1,    5,    1 
1,    8,    1 


2,12, 

3,  2, 

4,  9, 
4,  12, 
6,  5, 
6,    8, 

2,  4, 
4,    6, 


IV. 

1,    8,    3ff.- 
6,    2,    Iff.- 

V. 


2,    4, 

2,    7, 


-341 
-126 

-505 

-55 

-492 

-78 

-604,  506 

-200 

-126 
-129 

-17 
-6f. 

Рђћ348 
Рђћ348 
Рђћ24 
i. 

Рђћ39 
Рђћ492 
Рђћ160 


Vll. 

1,    5,    Iff.Рђћ 24 
4,    9,    1     Рђћ201 

Talaketu,-263 

Talavakara      Upanishad, 
420,  422 


Tamas,  267,  276 

Tandi,  195 

Tandya  Mahabrahmana Рђћ 

iv.  1,  4Рђћ603 

vi.  9,  7Рђћ349 

vii.  4,  2Рђћ503 

Рђћ  6,  6Рђћ507 

Рђћ  6,  11 ;  6,  5Рђћ503 

Рђћ  6,  20Рђћ162 

Рђћ  8,  If.Рђћ 803 
viii.  1,     4-491  f. 

Рђћ  2,     1Рђћ502 

Рђћ  2,  10Рђћ503 
ix.  7,  9  -504 
xii.  5,  23;   9,  21;   13, 

27Рђћ603 

Рђћ  6,  8Рђћ507 
xiii.  4,  17Рђћ491 
xiv.           11,  28Рђћ491  f. 

xviii.  1.     9  -492 

Рђћ  6,  26Рђћ506 
,xx.           14,     2Рђћ503 

Рђћ  15,     6Рђћ504 

Tanunapat,  9 
Tapoloka,  146 
Taraka,   Tarakaksha,    an 

A  sura,  223  f. 
Tarkshya,  148 
Tides,  cause  of  the,  219 
Time,  in  the  form  of  an 

ascetic,  477 
,Tirthar,  a  commentator  on 

the  Ramayaua,  480 
Tishya,  316 

Trayastiims'a  stoma,  163 
Triad  of  Agni,  Vayu  (or 

Indra),  and  Surya,  61, 

163,  298,  421 
of  Biahma,  Vishnu 

and  S'iva  (or  Eudra), 

280 
Triiata,  a  EakshasI,  451 
Trikadruka,  77,  87 
Trikuta,  285 
Trimurti,  163 
Trinava  stoma,  162 
Trinavindu,  486 
Tripishtapa,  284 
Triple  science,  60 
Trishtuhh,  123,  162 
Trib'ringa,  368 
Trita  Aptya,  89,  409 
Trivikrama,  67,  273 
Trivrit  stoma,  161 
Trya'mbaka,  204,  321 
Turghna,  128 
Tushitas,  120 
Tvashtri,  80,  91,  9$,  97, 

115,  S17 


INDEX- 


523 


TJ. 

Uchhais'sravas,  245 
XJdayagiri,     or     TJdaya- 

J)arvata,  66,  440 
gatri,  66 

Ugra  and  Ugradeva,  336, 
339,  342  f.,  346 

tjgrasena,  249 

Ukthya  ritual,  84 

TJma,  daughter  of  Daksha 
and  Prasuti,  378,  385 

reborn  as  daughter 

of  Hitnavat  and  Mena, 
385 

TTma  HaimavatI,  421  ff. 

Uma,howshegother  name, 
431 

her  names  and  attri- 
butes, 432 

bom  as  a  child  of 

Yas'oda,  434 

- Рђћ .  connected  with  Vish- 
nu iis  Mahfimaya,  435 

identified  with   the 

Supreme  Spirit,  436, 
(Called  also  Aparna, 
Devi,  Durga,  Kali, 
Karali,  Parvatl,  SatI, 
Yoga-nidra) 

TJpahavya,  the,  491 

tJpamanyu,  189 

XJpendra,  150.  See  Vishnu 

Urmila,  465 

TJrukrama,  121 

TJs'anas,  142f.,  150,  152 

XJshas,  91,  340 

TTs'ijes,  112 

РќаPttaniipad,  12  f. 

TJttfinapada,  13 

TJttanga  muni,  275 

TJttara  Kurus,  367 

Uttara  Mlmansa,  131 

V. 

Vach,  23,  46  f, 
Vaijayanta,  393  _ 
Vainianika  creation,  388 
VairSja  saman,  162 
VairQpa  saman,  162 
Vaishnava  rite,  294,  416, 

496 
Vaishnavas,  377 
Vais'ravana,  370, 482,  486 
VaitaranI  river,  284 
Vaivasvata     Manvantara, 

120,  136 
Vajasaneyi  Sanhita  quoted 

or  referred  to Рђћ Рќа 
3,         57-63Рђћ321, 420 
6,  11Рђћ430 


Vaj.  Sanhita,  continued Рђћ 

5,  15Рђћ66 

6,  16Рђћ86 
6,  3Рђћ74 
8,              45Рђћ5 

10,  20Рђћ16 

11,  57Рђћ126 

12,  102-16  , 

13,  4-rl5 
16,1-66Рђћ 302,  322flF.,  605 
17,        17-23Рђћ5 

17,  25-31Рђћ6  f. 

18,  66Рђћ71 
23,  3Рђћ16 
23,               20Рђћ171 
23,               49Рђћ67 

26,  12,  13Рђћ lof. 

27,  5Рђћ17 
27,          26  f.Рђћ 16 
30,  6Рђћ289 
32,                4Рђћ358 

32,  6  f.Рђћ 16 

33,  74Рђћ4 
33,           48  f.Рђћ 80 

37,  3-5Рђћ27, 126 

39,  8Рђћ403 

Vajas'ravns,   sense  of  the 
word,  310,  494 

Vajramushti,  487 

Vaktra,  286 

Valmiki,      "  sees "     the 
Earn  ay  ana,  441 

Vamadeva,  171 

Vamana  Purana,  228 

Vamra,  406 

Varada,  428 

Varaha,   an    Asura,    93. 
See  'Рђб  Boar" 
araha  Puri 

Varchin,  86 

Varuna,  14,  20,  48, 68, 74, 
76,  98 

his  mnjesty  cele- 
brated, 108  f. 

Рќа  his  daughter,  458, 


462.    See  I'unjikasthala 
VarunanI,  405 
his  bonds  or  nooses, 

148,  250 
Vasishtha,  33, 73,  96, 171, 

etc. 
Vastavya,  202 
Vastoshpati,  47 
Vasudeva,  38, 218, 270,eto. 

of  the  Pundras,  297 

Vasu  Savitra,  495 
Vasus,  64,  91 
Vata,  16,  76,  96 
Vayu,  29,  46,  66,  70,  76, 

89,  etc. 


Vayu,  one  of  the  triad  of 

gods,  66,  70,  160  ff. 
Vayu  Purana  quoted,  188, 

267,  278r375,  377 
Vedas,  depreciated  by  the 

S'aivas,  381 
Vedavati,  458,  471_ 
Vedavyasa  incarnation,lfi6 
Vendiclad,  328 
Vibhandaka,  166 
Vibhishana,  370, 450,452, 

476 
his    righteous 

character,  483,  489 
obtains    boon 


from  Brahma,  483,  489 
Vibhvan,  80 
Yidarbhas,  216 
Videhas,  177 
Vidhatri,  81,  121,  204 
Vidura'tha,  246 
Vidyutkeb'a,  486 
Vinayaka,  369 
VindhyavaU,  146,  149    ' 
Virabhadra,  373,  377 
Viraj,  44,  48,  148,  390 
Virinchi,  Virinchya,  378, 

389.     See  Bi'ahma. 
Virochana,  133 
Vis'abi,  214 
Vi^esha,  44 
Vishnu,  20,  27  f.,  31,  34, 

36ff.,  47,  219,  &  passim 

as  represented  in 

Eigveda,  63-97 

his    three   steps, 

63  ff.,  229,  439 

his   rank  in  the 


Eigvedii,  as  compared 
Рќаwith  other  deities,  97- 
114 

Рќа  as  an  Aditya,  114- 


121,  164 

-  as  described  in  the 


Brahmanas,  1 2 1  ff. 

adu-arf,  123 

the  sacrifice,  125 

'  his  incMrnation  as 


a  fish,  tortoise,  boar,  27, 

37  ff. 

as  a  dwarf,  130  ff. 

kills  S'ukra's  too- 


ther, 152 

doomed  by  S'ukra's 

curse  to  be  born  seven 
times  on  earth,  152, 
155  f. 

-his  ten  incarnations 


according  to  the  Matsya 
Purana,  156 


524 


INDEX. 


yi8lmu,hiB  twenty- two  in- 
carnations according  to 
the  Bhagavata  Purana, 
156 

his  incarnations  in- 
numerable according  to 
ditto,  156     - 

incarnation      as 

Eama,  156, 168  ff.,  175, 
441  ff.  _ 

his  incarnation  as 

Erishna,      166,      169, 
216  ff.,  252  ff. 

one  with  Rudra, 


241 

Рђћ I Рђћ  one  with  the  Su- 
preme Spirit,  38,  50, 
181,  264  ff. 

fights  with  Eudra, 

177f. 

Brahma  and  Maha- 

deva    produced     from 
him,  230,  267,  273 

his  dispute  with 

Brahma,  389 

-sprung  from  Eudra 


(or  Mahadeva),  391 
Vishnupada,  65 
Vishnu  Purana  quoted  or 

referred  to Рђћ 


i.    2, 

21  f.Рђћ 3 

Рђћ    2, 

25  Рђћ41 

Рђћ    3, 

1  ff.Рђћ 36 

Рђћ    4, 

1  ff.-36 

Рђћ    7 

Рђћ385 

Рђћ   7, 

1  Рђћ35 

Рђћ   7, 

6  Рђћ392 

-   7, 

12,  &o.-  35,  48 

Рђћ   7, 

26  Рђћ35 

Рђћ   8, 

9  Рђћ385 

Рђћ   15, 

90ff.Рђћ 119 

Рђћ   22, 

36ff.Рђћ 262 

ii.    5, 

19  Рђћ110 

iii.    1, 

Рђћ136 

iv.   14, 

4  Рђћ215 

T.    1, 

Iff.Рђћ 264  ff. 

-   26, 

1  Рђћ215 

Vishvatsena,  181 
Vi^ravas,  482,  486 
Vi^vajit  sacrifice,  137 
Vis'vakarman,  22, 149, 176, 

204,  367  ff.,  37J.  484 
Vi^vamitra,  177,  189 
Vi^varupi,  429 
Vi^vedevas,  89,  128 
ViTasvat,  14  f.,  33  f. 
Vraja,  60 
Vratya,  338 
Vrihadratha,  291 
Vrihaspatisava,  382 
Vrisha^ipra,  86 
Vritra,  78,  89 
Vyadi,  490 

W. 

"Waters,  17f.,  22ff.,  31ff., 

119 
Warriors  slain  in  battle, 

their  future  rewards,  277 
Weberj  Prof.  Albrecht,  see 

"Indisohe  Studien" 

translation  and  re- 
marts  supplied  by  him, 
201 

his  dissertation  on 

Eudra,  395  ff.       , 

on 

Uma,  421  ff. 
his  article  in  Journal 

of  Germ.  Or.  Soc,  131 

Indisohe  Streifen,289 

article  in  Kuhn  and 

Schleicher's  Beitrage,81 
his  notice  of  the  first 

edition  of  this  work,  298 
remarks  on  Mundaka 

TJpanishad,  i.  2,  4-429 

on  S'ipiTishta,  505 

Westergaard's  dissertation 

on  Indian  history,  405 

Radices,  299 

Whitney's  (Prof.  W.  D.) 

remarks  on  Rudra,  398f. 


Wilkinson's  (Mr.L.)  trans- 
lation of  Siddhanta- 
^iromani,  110 

Williams's  (Prof.  Monier) 
Indian  Epic  Poetry,  161, 
IRfi 

Sanskrit  English 


Dictionary,  249 

Wilson's    (Prof.  H.  H.) 
Sankhyakarika,  41 

Sanskrit  Diction- 
ary, 82 

-  translation  of  Eig- 


veda,  66,  171 


-ofVishnu 


Purana,  3,  41,  48,  119, 
etc. 

his   remarks   on 


Rudra,  394  f. 
"Work-gods"  are  not  ob- 
jects of  sacrifice,  but  can 
offer  it,  131, 496 


Tadus,  50 

Taina  incarnation,  166 
Tainikaa,  l59 
Tajush,  10,  96 
Tajashmati,  57 
Takshas,  153,  167 
Tama,  48,  180,  203,  333 
Yami,  48 

Taska.     See  Nirukta 
Tatis,  491  f. 
Yatudhana,  332 
Yatudhanis,  326 
Yavana,  253 
Yoga,  224 
.Yoganidra,  435 
Yudhishthira,206  &passim 
: purposes 

rajasuya  sacrifice,  287,, 

292 


Zeus,  256 


THE  END. 


STEPHEN  AUSTIN  AND  SONS,  FBINTEBS,  HBRTFOBS. 


РђбIT*-" 


-.V  ^ 


H 

Рђб.:% 


V'*  ^ -r- 


./^S-r'V 


-4--^. 


