CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 




BOUGHT WITH THE INCOME 
OF .THE SAGE ENDOWMENT 
FUND GIVEN IN ' I'S^t- 'BY 

'henry- WILLIAMS SAGE 



Cornell university Library 
PQ 295.S9S98 





The original of tliis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924027213994 



THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 
IN LITERATURE 



THE 

SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 
IN LITERATURE 



BY 

ARTHUR SYMONS 



LONDON 

WILLIAM HEINEMANN 

1899 



rO W. B. TEATS 

May I dedicate to you this book on the Symbolist 
movement in literature, both as an expression of a deep 
personal friendship and because you, more than any one 
else, will sympathise with what I say in it, being your- 
self the chief representative of that movement in our 
country ? France is the country of movements, and it is 
naturally in France that I have studied the development 
of a principle which is spreading throughout other 
countries, perhaps not less effectually, if with less 
definite outlines. Your own Irish literary movement is 
one of its expressions; your own poetry and A. E.'s 
poetry belong to it in the most intimate sense. In 
Germcm^yjt_seemsJob£^pQ:m^ 

ture^Usspirit i^J]M(tJsJlddiu.i^ it has 

"absorEed the one new force in liafy,ZGabxiele 
dAnnunzio. I am told of a group of Symbolists in 
-Russian ^-literature, there is another in Dutch litera- 
ture, in Portugal it has a little school of its own under 
Eugenio de Castro; I even saw some faint strivings 
that way in Spain, and the aged Spanish poet 
Campoamor has always fought qnbelMilf—Of..-JL.. 
"transcendental" art in which we should recognise 
ffi4£tr'Vf~1JBhat~is"'0iost essential in the doctrine of 
Symbolism. How often have you and I discussed all 
these questions, rarely arguing about them, for we rarely 
had an essential difference of opinion, but bringing them 
more and more clearly into light, turning our instincts 
into logic, digging until we reached the bases of our 
convictions. And all the while we were working as 



vi THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

well as thinking out a philosophy of art; you, at all 
events, creating beautiful things, as beautiful, it seems 
to me, as anything that is being done in our time. 

And we talked of other things besides art, and there 
are other sympathies, besides purely artistic ones, 
between us. I speak often in this book of Mysticism, 
and that I, of all people, should venture to speak, not 
quite as an outsider, of such things, will probably be a 
surprise to many. It will be no surprise to you, for 
, you have seen me gradually finding my way, uncertainly 
but inevitably, in that direction which has always been 
to you your natural direction. Still, as I am, so 
meshed about with the variable and too clinging appear- 
ances of things, so weak before the delightfulness of 
earthly circumstance, I hesitate sometimes in saying 
what I have in my mind, lest I should seem to be 
saying more than I have any persotial right to say. 
But what, after all, is one's personal right ? How insig- 
nificant a matter to any one but oneself, a matter how 
deliberately to be disregarded in that surely impersonal 
utterance which comes to one in one's most intimate 
thinking about beauty and truth and the deeper issues 
of things! 

It is almost worth writing a book to have one 
perfectly sympathetic reader, who will understand 
everything that one has said, and more than one has 
said, who will think one's own thought whenever one 
has said exactly the right thing, who will complete 
what is imperfect in reading it, and be too generous to 
think that it is imperfect. I feel that I shall have that 
reader in you; so here is my book in token of that 
assurance. 

ARTHUR SYMONS. 

London, June i8gg. 



CONTENTS 

^^ PAGE 

Introduction ... . . i 

Gerard de Nerval ii 

VlUrtERS DE l'IsLE AdAM 39 

-A^HUR Rimbaud .r- ... . 6i 

^AUL VeRLAINE ~^^<&Z^ 77 

,JULES LaFORGUE 103 

^T:fipHANE MaLLARME II5 

■ HUXSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST . . . . 139 

. MAETf RLINCK AS A MySTIC I5I ^ 

Conclusion . . . . . . 169 

Bibliography and Notes . . 177 



INTRODUCTION 



INTRODUCTION 

" It is in and through Symbols that man, consciously 
or unconsciously, lives, works, and has his being : those 
ages, moreover, are accounted the noblest which can the 
best recognise symbolical worth, and prize it highest." 

Carlyle 

vv ITHOUT symbolism there can be no literature ; 

indeed, not even language. What are ^Qrds.±hem,.i 

selves but symbols, almost as arbitrary as the letters 

which compose them, mere sounds of the voice to 

which we have agreed to give certain significations, 

as we have agreed to translate these sounds by 

those combinations of letters ? Symbolism began] 

with the first words uttered by the first man, as i 

he named every living thing; or before them, in| 

heaven, when God named the world into being.} 

And we see, in these beginnings, precisely what , 

Sy mbolism in literature really is: a form of ex- | 

pressio n. at the best but approximate, essentially f 

but arbitrary, until it has obtained the force of a ij 



4 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 



convention, for an unseen reality apprehended by 
the consciousness. It is sometimes permitted to us 
to hope that our convention is indeed the reflection 
rather than merely the sign of that unseen reality. 
We have done much if we have found a recog- 
^nisable sign. 

"A symbol," says Comte Goblet d'Alviella, in 
his book on The Migration of Symbols, " might be 
defined as a representation which does not aim at^ 
being a reproduction." Originally, as he points 
out, used by the Greeks to denote "the two halves 
of the tablet they divided between themselves as a 
pledge of hospitality," it came to be used of every 
sign, formula, or rite by which those initiated in 
any mystery made ttiemselves secretly known to 
one another. Gradually the word extended its 
meaning, until it came to denote every conven- 
tional representation of idea by form, of the 
unseen by the visible, "In a Symbol," says 
Carlyle, " there is concealme nt and yet rev elation : 
t hence_J:herefore, Sy'^Hen ce and by Speech acting 
\toggthgr,-£^ngs_a ^uble significanc e." And, in 
|that fine chapter of Sartor Resarfus, he goes 
further, vindicating for the word its full value: 
"In the Symbol proper, what we can call a 
Symbol, there is ever, more or less distinctly and 



INTRODUCTION 5 

directly, some embodiment and revelation of the 
Infinite ; the Infinite is made to blend itself with 
the Finite, to stand visible, and as it were, attain- 
able there." 

{/"It is in such a sense as this that the word 
Symbolism has been used to describe a move- 
ment which, during the last generation, has pro- 
foundly influenced the course of French literature. 
All such words, used of anything so living, variable, 
and irresponsible as literature, are, as symbols 
theriiselves must so often be, mere compromises, - 
mere indications. Symbolism, as seen in the writers 
of our day, would have- no value if it were not 
seen also, under one disguise or another, in every 
great imaginative writer. What distinguishes the 
Symbolism of our day from the Symbolism of , 
the past is that it ha s now become consciousjjfi^ 
itselfJln a sense in which i t-was-^uncQiiscious even„ 
in/Cfdrard de_Jtoya5>to whom I trace the parti- 
cular origin of the literature which I call Symbolist^ 
The forces which mould the thought of men change, 
or men's resistance to them slackens; with thej 
change of men's thought comes a change of litera- 
ture, alike in its inmost essence and in its out- 1 
ward form : after the world has starved its soul 
long enough in the contemplation and the re- 



6 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

j arrangement of material things, comes the turn 
of the soul; and with it comes the literature of 

I which I write in this volume, a literature in which 
the visible world is no longer a reality, and the 
unseen world no longer a dream. 

The great epoch in French literature which 
preceded this epoch was that of the offshoot of 
Romanticism which produced Baudelaire, Flaubert, 
the Goncourts, Taine, Zola, Leconte de Lisle. 
Taine was the philosopher both of what had 
gone before him and of what came immediately 
after ; so that he seems to explain at once Flau- 
bert and Zola. It was the age of Science, the age 
of material things; and words, with that facile 
elasticity which there is in them, did miracles in 
the exact representation of everything that visibly 
existed, exactly as it existed. Even Baudelaire, 
in whom the spirit is always an uneasy guest at 
the orgie of life, had a certain theory of Realism 
which tortures many of his poems into strange, 
metallic shapes, and fills them with imitative odours, 
and disturbs them with a too deliberate rhetoric of 
the flesh, s, Flaubert, the one impeccable novelist 
who has ever lived, was resolute to be the novelist 
of a world in which art, formal art, was the only 
escape from the burden of reality, and in which 



INTRODUCTION 7 

the soul was of use mainly as the agent of fine 
literature. The Goncourts caught at Impressionism 
to render the fugitive aspects of a world which 
existed only as a thing of flat spaces, and angles, 
and coloured movement, in which sun and shadow 
were the artists ; as moods, no less flitting, were 
the artists of the merely receptive consciousnesses 
of men and women. Zola has tried to build in 
brick and mortar inside the covers of a book ; he 
is quite sure that the soul is a nervous fluid, 
which he is quite sure some man of science is 
about to catch for us, as a man of science has 
bottled the air, a pretty, blue liquid. Leconte de 
Lisle turned the world to stone, but saw, beyond 
the world, only a pause from misery in a Nirvana 
never subtilised to the Eastern ecstasy. AndJ 
vinth all these writers, form aimed above all things 
at being precise, at saying rather than suggesting, 
at saying what they had to say so completely that 
nothing remained over, which it might be the 
business of the reader to divine. And so they 
have expressed, finally, a certain aspect of the 
world ; and some of them have carried style to a 
point beyond which the style that says, rather 
than suggests, cannot go. The whole of that 
movement comes to a splendid funeral in M. de 



8 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

Heredia's sonnets, in which the literature of form 
says its last word, and dies. 

Meanwhile, something which is vaguely called 
Decadence had come into being. That name, 
rarely used with any precise meaning, was usually 
either hurled as a reproach or hurled back as a 
defiance. It pleased some young men in various 
countries to call themselves Decadents, with all 
the thrill of unsatisfied virtue masquerading as 
uncomprehended vice. As a matter of fact, the 
term js in its place only when applied to style ; to 
that ingenious deformation of the language, in 
Mallarmd for instance, which can be compared 
with what we are accustomed to call the Greek 
and Latin of the Decadence. No doubt perversity 
of form and perversity of matter are often found 
together, and, among the lesser men especially, 
experiment was carried far, not only in the 
direction of style. But a movement which in this 
sense might be called Decadent could but have 
been a straying aside from the main road of 
literature. Nothing, not even conventional virtue, 
is so provincial as conventional vice ; and th e des ire 
to " bewilde r the middle-classes " is itself midt^ jp- 
class. The interlude, half a mock-interlude, of 
Decadence, diverted the attention of the critics while 



INTRODUCTION 9 

something more serious was in preparation. That 
something more serious has crystallised, for the 
time, under the form of Symbolism, in which art 
returns to the one pathway, leading through 
beautiful things to the eternal beauty. 

In most of the writers whom I have dealt with 
as summing up in themselves all that is best in 
Symbolism, it will be noticed that the form is very 
carefully elaborated, and seems to count for at 
least as much as in those writers of whose over- 
possession by form I have complained. Here, 
however, all this elaboration comes from a very 
different motive, and leads to other ends. \_There 
is such a thing as perfecting form that form may 
be annihilated^ All the art of Verlaine is in 
bringing verse to a bird's song, the art of Mal- 
larmd in bringing verse to the song of an orchestra. 
In Villiers de I'lsle-Adam drama becomes an 
embodiment of spiritual force§> in Maeterlinck 
not even their embodiment, but the remote sound 
of their voices. It is all an attempt to spiritualise 
literature, to evade the old bondage of rhetoric, 
the old bondage of exteriority^ Description is 
banished jhat beau tiful t hings (may be evo ked , 
magically j the regular beat of verse is broken in 
ordCT" that words may fly, upon subtler wings. 



10 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

Mystery is no longer feared, as the great mystery 
in whose midst we are islanded was feared by 
those to whom that unknown sea was only a 
great void. We are coming^ closer to natm;e, as 
we seem to shrink from it with something of 
horror, disdaining to catalogue the trees of the 
forest. And as we brush aside the accidents of 
daily life, in which men and women imagine that 
they are alone touching reality, we come closer to 
humanity, to everything in humanity that may 
have begun before the world and may outlast it. 
Here, then, in this revolt against exteriority, 
against rhetoric, against a materialistic tradition ; 
in this endeavour to disengage the , ultimate 
essence, the soul, of whatever exists and can be 
realised by the consciousness ; in this dutiful 
waiting upon every symbol by which the soul of 
things can be made visible; literature, bowed 
down by so many burdens, may at last attain 
liberty, and its authentic speech. In attaining 
this liberty, it accepts a heavier burden; for in 
speaking to us so intimately, so solemnly, as only 
religion had hitherto spoken to us, it becomes 
itself a kind of religion, with all the duties and 
responsibilities of the sacred ritual. 



GERARD DE NERVAL 



v.f.\: 



GERARD DE NERVAL 

. I 

This is the problem of one who lost the whole 
world and gained his own soul. 

" I like to arrange my life as if it were a novel," 
wrote Gerard de Nerval, and, indeed, it is some- 
what difficult to disentangle the precise facts of an 
existence which was never quite conscious where 
began and where ended that "overflowing of dreams 
into real life," of which he speaks. " I do not ask 
of God," he said, "that he should change anything 
in events themselves, but that he should change me 
in regard to things, so that I might have the 
power to create my own universe about me, to 
govern my dreams, instead of enduring them." 
The prayer was not granted, in its entirety ; and 
the tragedy of his life lay in the vain endeavour to 
hold back the irresistible empire of the unseen, 
which it was the joy of his life to summon about 



14 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

him. Briefly, we know that Gdrard Labrunie (the 
name de Nerval was taken from a little piece of 
property, worth some 1500 francs, which he liked 
to imagine had always been in the possession of 
his family) was born at Paris, May 22, 1808. 
His father was surgeon-major ; his mother died 
before he was old enough to remember her, follow- 
ing the Grande Arm€e on the Russian campaign ; 
and Gerard was brought up, largely under the care 
of a studious and erratic uncle, in a little village 
called Montagny, near Ermenonville. He was a 
precocious schoolboy, and by the age of eighteen 
had published six little collections of verses. It was 
during one of his holidays that he saw, for the first 
and last time, the young girl whom he calls 
Adrienne, and whom, under many names, he loved 
to the end of his life. One evening she had come 
from the chateau to dance with the young peasant 
girls on the grass. She had danced with Gdrard, 
he had kissed her cheek, he had crowned her hair 
with laurels, he had heard her sing an old song 
telling of the sorrows of a princess whom het 
father had shut in a tower because she had loved. 
To Gdrard it seemed that already he remembered 
her, and certainly he was never to forget her. 
Afterwards, he heard that Adrienne had taken the 



GERARD DE NERVAL 15 

veil ; then, that she was dead. To one who had 
realised that it is " we, the living, who walk in a 
world of phantoms," death could not exclude hope ; 
and when, many years later, he fell seriously and 
fantastically in love with a little actress called 
Jenny Colon, it was because he seemed to have 
found, in that blonde and very human person, the 
re-incarnation of the blonde Adrienne, 

Meanwhile Gerard was living in Paris, among 
his friends the Romantics, writing and living in 
an equally desultory fashion. Le bon Gerard was 
the best loved, and, in his time, not the least 
famous, of the company. He led, by choice, now 
in Paris, now across Europe, the life of a vagabond, 
and more persistently than others of his friends 
who were driven to it by need. At that time, 
when it was the aim of every one to be as eccentric 
as possible, the eccentricities of Gerard's life and 
thought seemed, on the whole, less noticeable than 
those of many really quite normal persons. But 
with Gerard there was no pose ; and when, 
one day, he was found in the Palais-Royal, 
leading a lobster at the end of a blue ribbon, the 
visionary had simply lost control of his visions, 
and had to be sent to Dr. Blanche's asylum at 
Montmartre. He entered March 21, 1841!, and 



1 6 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

came out, apparently well again, on the 2ist of 
November. It would seem that this first access of 
madness was, to some extent, the consequence of 
the final rupture with Jenny Colon ; on June 5, 
1842, she died, and it was partly in order to put as 
many leagues of the earth as possible between him 
and that memory that Gerard set out, at the end of 
1842, for the East. It was also in order to prove 
to the world, by his consciousness of external 
things, that he had recovered his reason. While 
he was in Syria, he once more fell in love with a 
new incarnation of Adrienne, a young Druse, 
Sal^ma, the daughter of a Sheikh of Lebanon ; and 
it seems to have been almost by accident that he 
did not marry her. He returned to Paris at the 
end of 1843 or the beginning of 1844, and for the 
next few years he lived mostly in Paris, writing 
charming, graceful, remarkably sane articles and 
books, and wandering about the streets, by day and 
night, in a perpetual dream, from which, now and 
again, he was somewhat rudely awakened. When, 
in the spring of 1853, he went to see Heine, for 
whom he was doing an admirable prose translation 
of his poems, and told him he had cOme to return 
the money he had received in advance, because the 
times were accompUshed, and the end of the world 



GERARD DE NERVAL 17 

announced by the Apocalypse, was at hand, Heine 
sent for a cab, and Gerard found himself at Dr. 
Dubois' asylum, where he remained two months. 
It was on coming out of the asylum that he wrote 
Sylvie, a delightful idyl, chiefly autobiographical, 
one of his three actual achievements. On August 
27j 1853, he had to be taken to Dr. Blanche's 
asylum at Passy, where he remained till May 27, 

1854. Thither, after a month or two spent 
in Germany, he returned on August 8, and on Octo- 
ber 19 he came out for the last time, manifestly 
uncured. He was now engaged on the narrative 
of his own madness, and the first part of Le Reve et 
la Vie appeared in the Revue de Paris of January i, 

1855. On the 20th he came into the office of the 
review, and showed Gautier and Maxime du Camp 
an apron-string which he was carrying in his 
pocket, " It is the girdle," he said, " that Madame 
de Maintenon wore when she had Esther performed 
at Saint-Cyr." On the 24th he wrote to a friend : 
" Come and prove my identity at the police-station 
of the Chatelet." The night before he had been 
working at his MS. in a pot-house of Les Halles, 
and had been arrested as a vagabond. He was 
used to such little misadventures, but he complained 
of the difficulty of writing. " I set off after an 

B 



i8 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

idea," he said, " and lose myself ; I am hours in 
finding my way back. Do you know I can 
scarcely write twenty lines a day, the darkness 
comes about me so close ! " He took out the 
apron-string. " It is the garter of the Queen of 
Sheba," he said. The snow was freezing on the 
ground, and on the night of the 25th, at three in 
the morning, the landlord of a " penny doss " in 
the Rue de la Vieille-Lanterne, a filthy alley lying 
between the quays and the Rue de Rivoli, heard 
some one knocking at the door, but did not open, on 
account of the cold. At dawn, the body of Gdrard 
de Nerval was found hanging by the apron-string 
to a bar of the window. 

It is not necessary to exaggerate the importance 
of the half-dozen volumes which make up the works 
of Gerard de Nerval. He was not a great writer ; 
he had moments of greatness ; and it is the 
particular quality of these moments which is of 
interest for us. There is the entertaining, but not 
more than entertaining, Voyage en Orient; there 
is the estimable translation of Faust, and the 
admirable versions from Heine; there are the 
volumes of short stories and sketches, of which 
even Les Illumine's, in spite of the promise of its 
title, is little more than an agreeable compilation. 



GERARD DE NERVAL 19 

But there remain three compositions : the sonnets, 
Le Reve et la Vie, and Sylvie; of which Sylvie is the 
most objectively achieved, a wandering idyl, full of 
pastoral delight, and containing some folk-songs of 
Valois,two of which have been translated byRossetti; 
Le Reve et la Vie being the most intensely personal, 
a narrative of madness, unique as madness itself; 
and the sonnets, a kind of miracle, which may be 
held to have created something at least of the 
method of the later Symbolists. These three com- 
positions, in which alone Gerard is his finest self, 
all belong to the periods when he was, in the eyes 
of the world, actually mad. The sonnets belong to 
two of these periods, Le Reve et la Vie to the 
last; Sylvie was written in the short interval 
between the two attacks in the early part of 1853. 
We have thus the case of a writer, graceful and 
elegant when he is sane, but only inspired, only 
really wise, passionate, collected, only really master 
of himself, when he is insane. It may be worth 
looking at a few of the points which so suggestive 
a problem presents to us. 



20 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 



II 

Gdrard de Nerval lived the transfigured inner life 
of the dreamer. "I was very tired of life!" he 
says. And like so many dreamers, who have all 
the luminous darkness of the universe in their 
brains, he found his most precious and uninter- 
rupted solitude in the crowded and more sordid 
streets of great cities. He who had loved the 
Queen of Sheba, and seen the seven Elohims 
dividing the world, could find nothing more toler- 
able in mortal conditions, when he was truly aware 
of them, than the company of the meanest of 
mankind, in whom poverty and vice, and the hard 
pressure of civihsation, still leave some of the 
original vivacity of the human comedy. The real 
world seeming to be always so far from him, and a 
sort of terror of the gulfs holding him, in spite of 
himself, to its flying skirts, he found something at 
all events realisable, concrete, in these drinkers of 
Les Halles, these vagabonds of the Place du 
Carrousel, among whom he so often sought refuge. 
It was literally, in part, a refuge. During the day 
he could sleep, but night wakened him, and that 



GERARD DE NERVAL 21 

restlessness, which the night draws out ip those 
who are really under lunar influences, set his feet 
wandering, if only in order that his mind might 
wander the less. The sun, as he mentions, never 
appears in dreams ; but, with the approach of night» 
is not every one a little readier to believe in the 
mystery lurking behind the world ? 

Grains, dans le mur aveugle, un regard qui t'epie / 

he writes in one of his great sonnets ; and that 
fear of the invisible watchfulness of nature was 
never absent from him. It is one of the terrors of 
human existence that we may be led at once to 
seek and to shun solitude ; unable to bear the 
mortal pressure of its embrace, unable to endure 
the nostalgia of its absence, " I think man's 
happiest when he forgets himself," says an Eliza- 
bethan dramatist ; and, with Gerard, there was 
Adrienne to forget, and Jenny Colon the actress, 
and the Queen of Sheba. But to have drunk of 
the cup of dreams is to have drunk of the cup of 
eternal memory. The past, and, as it seemed to 
him, the future were continually with him; only 
the present fled continually from under his feet. It 
was only by the effort of this contact with people 
who lived so sincerely in the day, the minute, that 



22 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

he could find even a temporary foothold. With them, 
at least, he could hold back all the stars, and the 
darkness beyond them, and the interminable approach 
and disappearance of all the ages, if only for the 
space between tavern and tavern, where he could 
open his eyes on so frank an abandonment to the 
common drunkenness of most people in this world, 
here for once really living the symbolic intoxication 
of their ignorance. 

Like so many dreamers of illimitable dreams, it 
was the fate of Gerard to incarnate his ideal in the 
person of an actress. The fatal transfiguration of 
the footlights, in which reality and the artificial 
change places with so fantastic a regularity, has 
drawn many moths into its flame, and will draw 
more, as long as men persist in demanding illusion 
of what is real, and reality in what is illusion. 
The Jenny Colons of the world are very simple, 
very real, if one will but refrain from assuming 
them to be a mystery. But it is the penalty of all 
imaginative lovers to create for themselves the veil 
which hides from them the features of the beloved. 
It is their privilege, for it is incomparably more 
entrancing to fancy oneself in love with Isis than 
to know that one is in love with Manon Lescaut. 
The picture of G&ard, after many hesitations, 



GERARD DE NERVAL 23 

revealing to the astonished Jenny that she is the 
incarnation of another, the shadow of a dream, that 
she has been Adrienne and is about to be the 
Queen of Sheba ; her very human little cry of 
pure incomprehension, Mais vous ne m'aimez pas f 
and her prompt refuge in the arms of the jeune 
premier ride, if it were not of the acutest pathos, 
would certainly be of the most quintessential 
comedy. For Gerard, so sharp an awakening was 
but like the passage from one state to another, 
across that little bridge of one step which lies 
between heaven and hell, to which he was so used 
in his dreams. It gave permanency to the trivial, 
crystallising it, in another than Stendhal's sense ; 
and when death came, changing mere human 
memory into the terms of eternity, the darkness of 
the spiritual world was lit with a new star, which 
was henceforth the wandering, desolate guide of so 
many visions. The tragic figure of Aurdia, which 
comes and goes through all the labyrinths of 
dream, is now seen always "as if lit up by a 
lightning-flash, pale and dying, hurried away by 
dark horsemen." 

The dream or doctrine of the re-incarnation of 
souls, which has given so much consolation to so 
many questioners of eternity, was for Gdrard (need 



24 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

we doubt?) a dream rather than a doctrine, but 
one of those dreams which are nearer to a man 
than his breath. " This vague and hopeless love," 
he writes in Sylvie, " inspired by an actress, which 
night by night took hold of me at the hour of the 
performance, leaving me only at the hour of sleep, 
had its germ in the recollection of Adrienne, flower 
of the night, unfolding under the pale rays of the 
moon, rosy and blonde phantom, gliding over the 
green grass, half bathed in white mist. ... To 
love a nun under the form of an actress ! . . . and 
if it were the very same ! It is enough to drive 
one mad I " Yes, il y a de quoi devenir fou, as 
G6rard had found; but there was also, in this 
intimate sense of the unity, perpetuity, and har- 
moniously recurring rhythm of nature, not a little 
of the inner substance of wisdom. It was a 
dream, perhaps refracted from some broken, illumin- 
ating angle by which madness catches unseen 
light, that revealed to him the meaning of his own 
superstition, fatality, malady : — " During my sleep, 
I had a marvellous vision. It seemed to me that 
the goddess appeared before me, saying to me : 'I 
am the same as Mary, the same as thy mother, the 
same also whom, under all forms, thou hast always 
loved. At each of thine ordeals I have dropt yet 



GERARD DE NERVAL 25 

one more of the masks with which I veil my 
countenance, and soon thou shalt see me as I am ! ' " 
And in perhaps his finest sonnet, the mysterious 
Artemis, we have, under other symbols, and with 
the deliberate inconsequence of these sonnets, the 
comfort and despair of the same faith. 

La Treizieme revient . . . C'esi encor la premiere ; 
Et c'esi toujours la seule, — ou c'esi le seul momeni : 
Car es-tu reine, o tot I la premiere ou derniere ? 
Es-iu roi, tot le seul ou le dernier amant ? . , . 

Aime% qui vous aima du berceau dans la Here ; 
Celle que faimai seul m'aime encor tendrement ; 
C'esi la mart — ou la morte . . . O dilice ! S iourment ! 
La Rose qu'elle tient, c'esi la Rose tremiere. 

Sainie napoliiaine aux mains pleines defeux. 
Rose au cceur violet, fleur de sainie Gudule : 
As-tu irouv'e ta croix dans le desert des cieux ? 

Roses blanches, tombez ! vous insuliez nos dieux : 
Tombez, faniomes b lanes, de voire del qui brule : 
— La Sainte de Fabime est plus sainie a. mes yeux ! 

Who has not often meditated, above all what 
artist, on the slightness, after all, of the link which 
holds our faculties together in that sober health of 
the brain which we call reason ? Are there not 
moments when that link seems to be worn down to 



26 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

so fine a tenuity that ttie wing of a passing dream 
might suffice to snap it ? The consciousness seems, 
as it were, to expand and contract at once, into 
something too wide for the universe, and too narrow 
for the thought of self to find room within it. Is 
it that the sense of identity is about to evaporate, 
annihilating all, or is it that a more profound 
identity, the identity of the whole sentient universe, 
has been at last realised ? Leaving the concrete 
world on these brief voyages, the fear is that we 
may not have strength to return, or that we may 
lose the way back. Every artist lives a double 
life, in which he is for the most part conscious of 
the illusions of the imagination. He is conscious 
also of the illusions of the nerves, which he shares 
with every man of imaginative mind. Nights of 
insomnia, days of anxious waiting, the sudden 
shock of an event, any one of these common dis- 
turbances may be enough to jangle the tuneless 
bells of one's nerves. The curtist can distinguish 
these causes of certain of his moods from those 
other causes which come to him because he is an 
artist, and are properly concerned with that inven- 
tion which is his own function. Yet is there not 
some danger that he may come to confuse one with 
the other, that he may "lose the thread" which 



GERARD DE NERVAL 27 

conducts him through the intricacies of the inner 
world ? 

The supreme artist, certainly, is the furthest 
of all men from this danger ; for he is the supreme 
intelligence. Like Dante, he can pass through hell 
unsinged. With him, imagination is vision ; when 
he looks into the darkness, he sees. The vague 
dreamer, the insecure artist and the uncertain 
mystic at once, sees only shadows, not recognising 
their outlines. He is mastered by the Images 
which have come at his call ; he has not the power 
which chains them for his slaves. "The kingdom 
of Heaven suffers violence," and the dreamer who 
has gone tremblingly into the darkness is in peril 
at the hands of those very real phantoms who are 
the reflection of his fear. 

The madness of Gerard de Nerval, whatever 
physiological reasons may be rightly given for its 
outbreak, subsidence, and return, I take to have been 
essentially due to the weakness and not the excess 
of his visionary quality, to the insufficiency of his 
imaginative energy, and to his lack of spiritual 
discipline. He was an unsystematic mystic ; his 
" Tower of Babel in two hundred volumes," that 
medley of books of religion, science, astrology, 
history, travel, which he thought would have 



28 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

rejoiced the heart of Pico della Mirandola, of 
Meursius, or of Nicholas of Cusa, was truly, as he 
says, " enough to drive a wise man mad." "Why 
not also," he adds, "enough to make a madman 
wise ? " But precisely because it was this amas 
bizarre, this jumble of the perilous secrets in which 
wisdom is so often folly, and folly so often wisdom. 
He speaks vaguely of the Kabbala ; the Kabbala 
would have been safety to him, as the Catholic 
Church would have been, or any other reasoned 
scheme of things. Wavering among intuitions, 
ignorances, half-truths, shadows of falsehood, now 
audacious, now hesitating, he was blown hither 
and thither by conflicting winds, a prey to the 
indefinite. 

Le Reve et la Vie, the last fragments of which 
were found in his pockets after his suicide, scrawled 
on scraps of paper, interrupted with Kabbalistic 
signs and " a demonstration of the Immaculate 
Conception by geometry," is a narrative of a mad- 
man's visions by the madman himself, yet showing, 
as Gautier says, " cold reason seated by the bedside 
of hot fever, hallucination analysing itself by a 
supreme philosophic effort." What is curious, 
yet after all natural, is that part of the narra- 
tive seems to be contemporaneous with what it 



GERARD DE NERVAL 29 

describes, and part subsequent to it ; so that it is 
not as when De Quincey says to us, such or such 
was the opium-dream that I had on such a night ; 
but as if the opium-dreamer had begun to write 
down his dream while he was yet within its coils. 
" The descent into hell," he calls it twice ; yet does 
he not also write : "At times I imagined that my 
force and my activity were doubled ; it seemed to 
me that I knew everything, understood everything ; 
and imagination brought me infinite pleasures. 
Now that I have recovered what men call reason, 
must I not regret having lost them ? " But he had 
not lost them ; he was still in that state of double 
consciousness which he describes in one of his 
visions, when, seeing people dressed in white, " I 
was astonished," he says, " to see them all dressed 
in white ; yet it seemed to me that this was an 
optical illusion," His cosmical visions are at times 
so magnificent that he seems to be creating myths ; 
and it is with a worthy ingenuity that he plays the 
part he imagines to be assigned to him in his astral 
influences. 

" First of all I imagined that the persons col- 
lected in the garden (of the madhouse) all had some 
influence on the stars, and that the one who always 
walked round and round in a circle regulated the 



30 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

course of the sun. An old man, who was brought 
there at certain hours of the day, and who made 
knots as he consulted his watch, seemed to me to 
be charged with the notation of the course of the 
hours. I attributed to myself an influence over the 
course of the moon, and I believed that this star 
had been struck by the thunderbolt of the Most 
High, which had traced on its face the imprint of 
the mask which I had observed. 

" I attributed a mystical signification to the 
conversations of the warders and of my com- 
panions. It seemed to me that they were the 
representatives of all the races of the earth, and 
that we had undertaken between us to re-arrange 
the course of the stars, and to give a wider develop- 
ment to the system. An error, in my opinion, had 
crept into the general combination of numbers, and 
thence came all the ills of humanity. I believed 
also that the celestial spirits had taken human 
forms, and assisted at this general congress, seem- 
ing though they did to be concerned with but ordi- 
nary occupations. My own part seemed to me to 
be the re-establishment of universal harmony by 
Kabbalistic art, and I had to seek a solution by 
evoking the occult forces of various religions." 
So far we have, no doubt, the confusions of 



GERARD DE NERVAL 31 

madness, in which what may indeed be the symbol 
is taken for the thing itself. But now observe 
what follows : — 

" I seemed to myself a hero living under the 
very eyes of the gods ; everything in nature 
assumed new aspects, and secret voices came to me 
from the plants, the trees, animals, the meanest 
insects, to warn and to encourage me. The words 
of my companions had mysterious messages, the 
sense of which I alone understood ; things without 
form and without life lent themselves to the designs 
of my mind ; out of combinations of stones, the 
figures of angles, crevices, or openings, the shape 
of leaves, out of colours, odours, and sounds, I saw 
unknown harmonies come forth. ' How is it,' I 
said to myself, ' that I can possibly have lived so 
long outside nature, without identifying myself with 
her ! All things live, all things are in motion, all 
things correspond ; the magnetic rays emanating 
from myself or others traverse without obstacle the 
infinite chain of created things : a transparent net- 
work covers the world, whose loose threads com- 
municate more and more closely with the planets 
and the stars. Now a captive upon the earth, I 
hold converse with the starry choir, which is 
feelingly a part of my joys and sorrows.' " 



32 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

To have thus realised that central secret of the 
mystics, from Pythagoras onwards, the secret 
which the Smaragdine Tablet of Hermes betrays in 
its " As things are below, so are they above " ; 
which Boehme has classed in his teaching of 
" signatures," and Swedenborg has systematised in 
his doctrine of " correspondences " ; does it matter 
very much that he arrived at it by way of the 
obscure and fatal initiation of madness ? Truth, 
and especially that soul of truth which is poetry, 
may be reached by many roads ; and a road is not 
necessarily misleading because it is dangerous or 
forbidden. Here is one who has gazed at light till 
it has blinded him ; and for us all that is important 
is that he has seen something, not that his eyesight 
has been too weak to endure the pressure of light 
overflowing the world from beyond the world. 



Ill 

And here we arrive at the fundamental principle 
which is at once the substance and the aesthetics of 
the sonnets "composed," as he explains, "in that 
state of meditation which the Germans would call 



GERARD DE NERVAL 33 

' super-naturalistic' " In one, which I will quote, 
he is explicit, and seems to state a doctrine. 

rERS DORES. 

Homme, libre penseur ! te crois-tu seul pensant 
Dans ce monde ou la vie eclate en toute chose ? 
Des forces que tu tiens ta liberie dispose, 
Mais de totis tes conseils Punivers est absent. 

Respecte dans la bete un esprit agissant : 

Chaquejleur est une ame a la Nature eclose ; 

Un mystere £ amour dans le metal repose ; 

" Tout est sensible ! " Et tout sur ton etre est puissant. 

Grains, dans le mur aveugle, un regard qui fipie ! 
A la matiere mime un verbe est attache . . , 
Ne lafais pas servir a quelque usage impie ! 

Souvent dans Petre obscur habit e un Dieu cache ; 
Et comme un ceil naissant couvert par ses paupieres, 
Un pur esprit s'accroit sous Pecorce des pierres ! 

But in the other sonnets, in Artemis, which I 
have quoted, in El Desdichado, Myrfho, and the 
others, he would seem to be deliberately obscure ; 
or at least, his obscurity results, to some extent, 
from the state of mind which he describes in Le 
Reve et la Vie : " I then saw, vaguely drifting into 
form, plastic images of antiquity, which outlined 
themselves, became definite, and seemed to represent 

c 



34 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

symbols, of which I only seized the idea with difH- 
culty." Nothing could more precisely represent 
the impression made by these sonnets, in which, 
for the first time in French, words are used as the 
ingredients of an evocation, as themselves not 
merely colour and sound, but symbol. Here are 
words which create an atmosphere by the actual 
suggestive quality of their syllables, as, according 
to the theory of Mallarmd, they should do ; as, in 
the recent attempts of the Symbolists, writer after 
writer has endeavoured to lure them into doing. 
Persuaded, as Gdrard was, of the sensitive unity 
of all nature, he was able to trace resemblances 
where others saw only divergences ; and the setting 
together of unfamiliar and apparently alien things, 
which comes so strangely upon us in his verse, was 
perhaps an actual sight of what it is our misfortune 
not to see. His genius, to which madness had 
come as the liberating, the precipitating, spirit, dis- 
engaging its finer essence, consisted in a power of 
materialising vision, whatever is most volatile and 
unseizable in vision, and without losing the sense 
of mystery, or that quality which gives its charm 
to the intangible. Madness, then, in him, had lit 
up, as if by lightning-flashes, the hidden links of 
distant and divergent things; perhaps in some- 



GERARD DE NERVAL 35 

what the same manner as that in which a similarly 
new, startling, perhaps over-true sight of things is 
gained by the artificial stimulation of haschisch, 
opium, and those other drugs by which vision is 
produced deliberately, and the soul, sitting safe 
within the perilous circle of its own magic, looks 
out on the panorama which either rises out of the 
darkness before it, or drifts from itself into the 
darkness. The very imagery of these sonnets is 
the imagery which is known to all dreamers of 
bought dreams. Rose au cceur violet, fleur de 
sainte Gudule ; le Temple au peristyle immense; 
la grotte oil nage la syrene: the dreamer of 
bought dreams has seen them all. But no one 
before Gdrard realised that such things as these 
might be the basis of almost a new aesthetics. 
Did he himself realise all that he had done, or was 
it left for Mallarmg to theorise upon what Gdrard 
had but divined ? 

That he made the discovery, there is no doubt ; 
and we owe to the fortunate accident of madness 
one of the foundations of what may be called the 
practical aesthetics of Symbolism. Look again at 
that sonnet Artemis, and you will see in it not 
only the method of Mallarmd, but much of the most 
intimate manner of Verlaine. The first four lines, 



36 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

with their fluid rhythm, their repetitions and echoes, 
their delicate evasions, might have been written by 
Verlaine; in the later part the firmness of the 
rhythms and the jewelled significance of the words 
are like Mallarmd at his finest, so that in a single 
sonnet we may fairly claim to see a foreshadowing 
of the styles of Mallarm^ and Verlaine at once. 
With Verlaine the resemblance goes, perhaps, no 
further ; with Mallarm6 it goes to the very roots, 
the whole man being, certainly, his style. 

Gerard de Nerval, then, had divined, before all 
the world, that poetry should be a miracle ; not a 
hymn to beauty, nor the description of beauty, nor 
beauty's mirror; but b eauty itself ,, the colour, 
fragrance, and form of the imagined flower, as it 
blossoms again out of the page. Vision, the over- 
powering vision, had come to him beyond, if not 
against, his will ; and he knew that vision is the 
root out of which the flower must grow. Vision 
had taught him symbol, and he knew that it is by 
symbol alone that the flower can take visible form. 
He knew that the whole mystery of beauty can 
never be comprehended by the crowd, and that 
while clearness is a virtue of style, perfect explicit- 
ness is not a necessary virtue. So it was with 
disdain, as well as with confidence, that he allowed 



GERARD DE NERVAL 37 

these sonnets to be overheard. It was enough for 
him to say : — 

J^ai reve dans la grotte ou nage la syrene ; 

and to speak, it might be, the siren's language, 
remembering her, " It will be my last madness," 
he wrote, " to believe myself a poet : let criticism 
cure me of it." Criticism, in his own day, even 
Gautier's criticism, could but be disconcerted by a 
novelty so unexampled. It is only now that the 
best critics in France are beginning to realise how 
great in themselves, and how great in their influence, 
are these sonnets, which, forgotten by the world 
for nearly fifty years, have all the while been secretly 
bringing new aesthetics into French poetry. 



VILLIERS DE L'lSLE-ADAM 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 

A chacun son infini 
I 

Count Philippe auguste mathias de 

VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM was born at 
St. Brieuc, in Normandy, November 28, 1838 ; he 
died at Paris, under the care of the Frferes Saint- 
Jean-de-Dieu, August 19, 1889. Even before his 
death, his life had become a legend, and the legend 
is even now not to be disentangled from the actual 
occurrences of an existence so heroically visionary. 
The Don Quixote of idealism, it was not only in 
philosophical terms that life, to him, was the dream, 
and the spiritual world the reality ; he lived his 
faith, enduring what others called reality with con- 
tempt, whenever, for a moment, he became con- 
scious of it. The basis of the character of Villiers 
was pride, and it was a pride which covered more 



42 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

than the universe. And this pride, first of all, was 
the pride of race. 

Descendant of the original Rodolphe le Bel, 
Seigneur de Villiers (1067), through Jean de 
Villiers and Marie de I'lsle and their son Pierre 
the first Villiers de I'lsle-Adam, a Villiers de 
risle-Adam, born in 1384, had been Marshal 
of France under Jean-sans-Peur, Duke of Bur- 
gundy ; he took Paris during the civil war, and 
after being imprisoned in the Bastille, reconquered 
Pontoise from the English, and helped to reconquer 
Paris. Another Villiers de I'lsle-Adam, born in 
1464, Grand Master of the Order of St. John of 
Jerusalem, defended Rhodes against 200,000 Turks 
for a whole year, in one of the most famous sieges 
in history ; it was he who obtained from Charles V. 
the concession of the isle of Malta for his Order, 
henceforth the Order of the Knights of Malta. 

For Villiers, to whom time, after all, was but a 
metaphysical abstraction, the age of the Crusaders 
had not passed. From a descendant of the Grand 
Master of the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, 
the nineteenth century demanded precisely the 
virtues which the sixteenth century had demanded 
of that ancestor. And these virtues were all summed 
up in one word, which, in its double significance, 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 43 

single to him, covered the whole attitude of life : the 
word " nobility." No word returns oftener to the 
lips in speaking of what is most characteristic in his 
work, and to Villiers moral and spiritual nobility 
seemed but the inevitable consequence of that other 
kind of nobility by which he seemed to himself still 
a Knight of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem. 
It was his birthright. 

To the aristocratic conception of things, nobility 
of soul is indeed a birthright, and the pride with 
which this gift of nature is accepted is a pride of 
exactly the opposite kind to that democratic pride 
to which nobility of soul is a conquest, valuable in 
proportion to its difficulty. This duality, always 
essentially aristocratic and democratic, typically 
Eastern and Western also, finds its place in every 
theory of religion, philosophy, and the ideal life. 
The pride of being, the pride of becoming: these 
are the two ultimate contradictions set before every 
idealist. ViUiers' choice, inevitable indeed, was 
significant. In its measure, it must always be the 
choice of the artist, to whom, in his contemplation 
of life, the means is often so much more important 
than the end. That nobility of soul which comes 
without effort, which comes only with an unrelaxed 
diligence over oneself, that I should be I : there 



44 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

can at least be no comparison of its beauty with 
the stained and dusty onslaught on a never quite 
conquered fort of the enemy, in a divided self. 
And, if it be permitted to choose among degrees of 
sanctity, that, surely, is the highest in which a 
natural genius for such things accepts its own 
attainment with the simplicity of a birthright. 

And the Catholicism of Villiers was also a part 
of his inheritance. His ancestors had fought for 
the Church, and Catholicism was still a pompous 
flag, under which it was possible to fight on behalf 
of the spirit, against that materialism which is 
always, in one way or another, atheist. Thus he 
dedicates one of his stories to the Pope, chooses 
ecclesiastical splendours by preference among the 
many splendours of the world which go to make up 
his stage-pictures, and is learned in the subtleties 
of the Fathers. The Church is his favourite symbol 
of austere intellectual beauty ; one way, certainly, 
by which the temptations of external matter may 
be vanquished, and a way, also, by which the 
desire of worship may be satisfied. 

But there was also, in his attitude towards the 
mysteries of the spiritual world, that " forbidden " 
curiosity which had troubled the obedience of the 
Templars, and which came to him, too, as a kind of 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 45 

knightly quality. Whether or not he was actually 
a Kabbalist, questions of magic began, at an early 
age, to preoccupy him, and, from the first wild 
experiment of Ists to the deliberate summing up 
of Axel, the " occult " world finds its way into 
most of his pages. 

Fundamentally, the belief of Villiers is the belief 
common to all Eastern mystics.* f' Know, once 
for all, that there is for thee no other universe than 
that conception thereof which is reflected at the 
bottom of thy thoughts." "What is knowledge 
but a recognition ? "j Therefore, "forgetting for 
ever that which was the illusion of thyself," hasten 
to become " an intelligence freed from the bonds 
and the desires of the present moment." " Become 
the flower of thyself ! Thou art but what thou 
thinkest : therefore think thyself eternal." " Man, 
if thou cease to limit in thyself a thing, that is, to 
desire it, if, so doing, thou withdraw thyself from 
it, it will follow thee, woman-like, as the water fills 
the place that is offered to it in the hollow of the 
hand. For thou possessest the real being of all 
things, in thy pure will, and thou art the God that 
thou art able to become." 

* " I am far from sure," wrote Verlaine, " that the philosophy 
of Villiers will not one day become the formula of our century." 



46 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

To have accepted the doctrine which thus finds 
expression in Axel, is to have accepted this among 
others of its consequences : " Science states, but 
does not explain : she is the oldest offspring of 
the chimeras ; all the chimeras, then, on the same 
terms as the world (the oldest of them I), are some- 
thing more than nothing ! " And in Elen there 
is a fragment of conversation between two young 
students, which has its significance also : 

" Goetze. There's my philosopher in full flight to 
the regions of the sublime ! Happily we have 
Science, which is a torch, dear mystic ; we will 
analyse your sun, if the planet does not burst 
into pieces sooner than it has any right to ! 

Samuel. Science will not suffice. Sooner or later 
you will end by coming to your knees. 

Goetze. Before what ? 

Samuel. Before the darkness ! " 

Such avowals of ignorance are possible only 
from the height of a great intellectual pride. 
I Villiers' revolt against Science, so far as Science is 
materialistic, and his passionate curiosity in that 
chimera's flight towards the invisible, are one and 
the same impulse of a mind to which only mind 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 47 

is interesting. Toute cette vieille Exte'riorite, maligne, 
compUquee, inflexible, that illusion which Science 
accepts for the one reality : it must be the whole 
effort of one's consciousness to escape from its 
entanglements, to dominate it, or to ignore it, 
and one's art must be the building of an ideal 
world beyond its access, from which one may 
indeed sally out, now and again, in a desperate 
enough attack upon the illusions in the midst of 
which men live. 

And just that, we find, makes up the work of 
Villiers, work which divides itself roughly into two 
divisions : one, the ideal world, or the ideal 
in the world (Axel, Elm, Morgane, Isis, some 
of the contes, and, intermediary, La Revolte) ; 
the other, satire, the mockery of reality {JOEve 
Future, the Contes Cruels, Tribulat Bonhomet). 
It is part of the originality of Villiers that the 
two divisions constantly flow into one another; 
the idealist being never more the idealist than in 
his buffooneries. / 



48 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 



II 

Axel is the Symbolist drama, in all its uncom- 
promising conflict with the "modesty "of Nature 
and the limitations of the stage. It is the drama 
of the soul, and at the same time it is the most 
pictorial of dramas ; I 'should define its manner as 
a kind of spiritual romanticism. The earlier dramas, 
Elen, Morgane, are fixed at somewhat the same 
point in space ; La Rivolte, which seems to antici- 
pate The Dolls' House, shows us an aristocratic 
Ibsen, touching reality with a certain disdain, 
certainly with far less skill, certainly with far more 
beauty. But Axel, meditated over during a life- 
time, shows us Villiers' ideal of his own idealism. 

The action takes place, it is true, in this century, 
but it takes place in corners of the world into 
which the modern spirit has not yet passed ; this 
Monaster e de Religieuses-trinitaires, le clottre de 
Sainte Apollodora, situe sur les confins du littoral 
de I'ancienne Flandre franqaise, and the tres vienx 
chateau fort, le burg des margraves d'Auersperg, isole' 
au milieu du Schwartzwald. The characters, AxSl 
d'Auersperg, Eve Sara Emmanufele de Maupers, 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 49 

Maltre Janus, the Archidiacre, the Commandeur 
Kaspar d'Auersperg, are at once more and less than 
human beings : they are the types of different 
ideals, and they are clothed with just enough 
humanity to give form to what would otherwise 
remain disembodied spirit. The religious ideal, 
the occult ideal, the worldly ideal, the passionate 
ideal, are all presented, one after the other, in these 
dazzling and profound pages ; Axel is the disdain- 
ful choice from among them, the disdainful rejec- 
tion of life itself, of the whole illusion of life, 
"since infinity alone is not a deception." And 
Sara ? Sara is a superb part of that life which is 
rejected, which she herself comes, not without 
reluctance, to reject. In that motionless figure, 
during the whole of the first act silent but for a 
single " No," and leaping into a moment's violent 
action as the act closes, she is the haughtiest 
woman in literature. But she is a woman, and she 
desires life, finding it in Axfil. Pride, and the 
woman's devotion to the man, aid her to take the 
last cold step with Axel, in that transcendental 
giving up of life at the moment when life becomes 
ideal. 

And the play is written, throughout, with a 
curious solemnity, a particular kind of eloquence, 

D 



50 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

which makes no attempt to imitate the level of the 
speech of every day, but which is a sort of ideal 
language in which beauty is aimed at as exclusively 
as if it were written in verse. The modern drama, 
under the democratic influence of Ibsen, the posi- 
tive influence of Dumas fils, has limited itself to the 
expression of temperaments in the one case, of 
theoretic intelligences in the other, in as nearly as 
possible the words which the average man would 
use for the statement of his emotions and ideas. 
The form, that is, is degraded below the level of 
the characters whom it attempts to express ; for it 
is evident that the average man can articulate only 
a small enough part of what he obscurely feels or 
thinks ; and the theory of Realism is that his 
emotions and ideas are to be given only in so far 
as the words at his own command can give them. 
Villiers, choosing to concern himself only with 
exceptional characters, and with them only in the 
absolute, invents for them a more elaborate and a 
more magnificent speech than they would naturally 
employ, the speech of their thoughts, of their 
dreams. 

And it is a world thought or dreamt in some 
more fortunate atmosphere than that in which we 
live, that Villiers has created for the final achieve- 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 51 

ment of his abstract ideas. I do not doubt that he 
himself always lived in it, through all the poverty of 
the precipitous Rue des Martyrs. But it is in 
Axel, and in Axel only, that he has made us also 
inhabitants of that world. Even in Elen we are 
spectators, watching a tragical fairy play (as if 
Fantasia became suddenly in deadly earnest), watch- 
ing some one else's dreams. Axel envelops us in 
its own atmosphere ; it is as if we found ourselves 
on a mountain-top, on the other side of the clouds, 
and without surprise at finding ourselves there. 

The ideal, to Villiers, being the real, spiritual 
beauty being the essential beauty, and material 
beauty its reflection, or its revelation, it is with a 
sort of fury that he attacks the materialising forces 
of the world : science, progress, the worldly em- 
phasis on " facts," on what is " positive," " serious," 
" respectable." Satire, with him, is the revenge of 
beauty upon ugliness, the persecution of the ugly; 
it is not merely social satire, it is a satire on the 
material universe by one who believes in a spiritual 
universe. Thus it is the only laughter of our time 
which is fundamental, as fundamental as that of 
Swift or Rabelais. And this lacerating laughter 
of the idealist is never surer in its aim than when 
't turns the arms of science against itself, as in the 



52 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

vast buffoonery of LEve Future. A Parisian wit, 
sharpened to a fineness of irony such as only wit 
which is also philosophy can attain, brings in 
another method of attack ; humour, which is almost 
English, another ; while again satire becomes tragic, 
fantastic, macabre. In those enigmatic " tales of 
the grotesque and arabesque," in which VilUers 
rivals Poe on his own ground, there is, for the most 
part, a multiplicity of meaning which is, as it is 
meant to be, disconcerting. I should not like to 
say how far Villiers does not, sometimes, believe in 
his own magic. 

It is characteristic of him, at all events, that he 
employs what we call the supernatural alike in his 
works of pure idealism and in his works of sheer 
satire. The moment the world ceased to be the 
stable object, solidly encrusted with houses in brick 
and stone, which it is to most of its so temporary 
inhabitants, Villiers was at home. When he sought 
the absolute beauty, it was beyond the world that 
he found it ; when he sought horror, it was a breath 
blowing from an invisible darkness which brought 
it to his nerves ; when he desired to mock the 
pretensions of knowledge or of ignorance, it was 
always with the unseen that his tragic buffoonery 
made familiar. 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 53 

There is, in everything which Villiers wrote, a 
strangeness, certainly both instinctive and deliberate, 
which seems to me to be the natural consequence 
of that intellectual pride which, as I have pointed 
out, was at the basis of his character. He hated 
every kind of mediocrity : therefore he chose to 
analyse exceptional souls, to construct exceptional 
stories, to invent splendid names, and to evoke 
singular landscapes. It was part of his curiosity 
in souls to prefer the complex to the simple, the 
perverse to the straightforward, the ambiguous to 
either. His heroes are incarnations of spiritual 
pride, and their tragedies are the shock of spirit 
against matter, the invasion of spirit by matter, 
the temptation of spirit by spiritual evil. They 
seek the absolute, and find death ; they seek 
wisdom, find love, and fall into spiritual decay ; 
they seek reality, and find crime; they seek 
phantoms, and find themselves. They are on the 
borders of a wisdom too great for their capacity ; 
they are haunted by dark powers, instincts of 
ambiguous passions ; they are too lucid to be quite 
sane in their extravagances ; they have not quite 
systematically transposed their dreams into action. 
And his heroines, when they are not, like L'Eve 
Future, the vitalised mechanism of an Edison, have 



54 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

the solemnity of dead people, and a hieratic speech. 
Songe, des cceurs condamn^s a ce supplice, de ne pas 
ni aimer / says Sara, in Axel. Je ne Vaime pas, ce 
jeune homme. Qu^ai-je done fait A Dieu? says Elgn. 
And their voice is always like the voice of Elgn : 
" I listened attentively to the sound of her voice ; 
it was taciturn, subdued, Uke the murmur of the 
river Lethe, flowing through the region of shadows." 
They have the immortal weariness of beauty, they 
are enigmas to themselves, they desire, and know 
not why they refrain, they do good and evil with 
the lifting of an eyelid, and are innocent and guilty 
of all the sins of the earth. 

And these strange inhabitants move in as strange 
a world. They are the princes and chatelaines of 
ancient castles lost in the depths of the Black 
Forest ; they are the last descendants of a great 
race about to come to an end ; students of magic, 
who have the sharp and swift swords of the 
soldier; enigmatic courtesans, at the table of 
strange feasts; they find incalculable treasures, 
tonnantes et sonnantes cataractes d'or liquide, only 
to disdain them. All the pomp of the world 
approaches them, that they may the better abne- 
gate it, or that it may ruin them to a deeper 
degree of their material hell. And we see them 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 55 

always at the moment of a crisis, before the two 
ways of a decision, hesitating in the entanglements 
of a great temptation. And this casuist of souls 
will drag forth some horribly stunted or horribly 
overgrown soul from under its obscure covering, 
setting it to dance naked before our eyes. He 
has no mercy on those who have no mercy on 
themselves. 

In the sense in which that word is ordinarily 
used, Villiers has no pathos. This is enough to 
explain why he can never, in the phrase he would 
have disliked so greatly, . " touch the popular ^ 
heart." His mind is too abstract to contain pity, 
and it is in his lack of pity that he seems to put 
himself outside humanity. A chacun son infini, 
he has said, and in the avidity of his search for 
the infinite he has no mercy for the blind weakness 
which goes stumbling over the earth, without so 
much as knowing that the sun and stars are over- 
head. I^e sees, only the gross multitude, the 
multitude which has the contentment of the slave. 
He cannot pardon stupidity, for it is incompre- 
hensible to him. He sees, rightly, that stupidity 
is more criminal than vice; if only because vice 
is curable, stupidity incurable. But he does not 
realise, as the great novelists have realised, that 



56 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

stupidity can be pathetic, and that there is not a 
peasant, nor even a self-satisfied bourgeois, in 
whom the soul has not its part, in whose existence 
it is not possible to be interested. 

Contempt, noble as it may be, anger, righteous 
though it may be, cannot be indulged in without a 
certain lack of sympathy ; and lack of sympathy 
comes from a lack of patient understanding. It 
is certain that the destiny of the greater part of 
the human race is either infinitely pathetic or 
infinitely ridiculous. Under which aspect, then, 
shall that destiny, and those obscure fractions of 
humanity, be considered ? Villiers was too sincere 
an idealist, too absolute in his idealism, to hesitate. 
"As for living," he cries, in that splendid phrase 
of Axel, "our servants will do that for us ! " And, 
in the Contes Cruels, there is this not less charac- 
teristic expression of what was always his mental 
attitude : " As at the play, in a central stall, one 
sits out, so as not to disturb one's neighbours — 
out of courtesy, in a word — some play written in a 
wearisome style and of which one does not like the 
subject, so I lived, out of politeness " : je vivais 
par poHtesse. In this haughtiness towards life, 
in this disdain of ordinary human motives and 
ordinary human beings, there is at once the dis- 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 57 

tinction and the weakness of Villiers. And he has 
himself pointed the moral against himself in these 
words of the story which forms the epilogue to the 
Contes Cruels: "When the forehead alone contains 
the existence of a man, that man is enlightened 
only from above his head ; then his jealous shadow, 
prostrate under him, draws him by the feet, t}iat 
it may drag him down into the invisible." 



Ill 

All his life Villiers was a poor man ; though, all 
his life, he was awaiting that fortune which he 
refused to anticipate by any mean employment. 
During most of his life, he was practically an 
unknown man. Greatly loved, ardently admired, 
by that inner circle of the men who have made 
modern French literature, from Verlaine to Maeter- 
linck, he was looked upon by most people as an 
amusing kind of madman, a little dangerous, whose 
ideas, as they floated freely over the cafd-table, it 
was at times highly profitable to steal. For Villiers 
talked his works before writing them, and some- 
times he talked them instead of writing them, in 



58 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

his too royally spendthrift way. To those who 
knew him he seemed genius itself, and would have 

; seemed so if he had never written a line ; for he 
had the dangerous gift of a personality which 
seems to have already achieved all that it so 

; energetically contemplates. But personality tells 
only within hands' reach ; and Villiers failed even 
to startle, failed even to exasperate, the general 
reader. That his Premieres Poesies, published at 
the age of nineteen, should have brought him fame 
was hardly to be expected, remarkable, especially 
in its ideas, as that book is. Nor was it to be 
expected of the enigmatic fragment of a romance, 
Isis (1862), anticipating, as it does, by so long a 
period, the esoteric and spiritualistic romances 
which were to have their vogue. But Elen (1864) 
and Morgane (1865), those two poetic dramas in 
prose, so full of distinction, of spiritual rarity ; but 
two years later, Claire Lenoir (afterwards incor- 
porated in one of his really great books, Tribulat 
Bonhomet), with its macabre horror; but La 
Revolte (1870), for Villiers so "actual," and which 
had so genuine a success when it was revived in 
1896 at the Oddon ; but Le Nouveau Monde (1880), 
a drama which, by some extraordinary caprice, won 
a prize; but Les Contes Cruels (1880), that collec- 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 59 

tion of masterpieces, in which the essentially French 
conie is outdone on its own ground ! It was not 
till 1886 that Villiers ceased to be an unknown 
writer, with the publication of that phosphorescent 
buffoonery of science, that vast parody of humanity, 
L'Eve Future. Tribulat Bonhomet (which he himself 
defined as bouffonnerie enorme et sombre^ couleur du 
Steele) was to come, in its final form, and the superb 
poem in prose Akedysseril ; and then, more and 
more indiiferent collections of stories, in which 
Villiers, already dying, is but the shadow of himself : 
L' Amour Supreme (1886), Histoires InsoUtes (1888), 
Nouveaux Contes Cruels (1888). He was correcting 
the proofs of Axe'l when he died ; the volume was 
published in 1890, followed by Propos d'au-dela, and 
a series of articles, Chez les Passants. Once dead, 
the fame which had avoided him all his life began 
to follow him ; he had une belle presse at his funeral. 
Meanwhile, he had been preparing the spiritual 
atmosphere of the new generation. Living among , 
believers in the material world, he had been de- 
claring, not in vain, his belief in the world of the! 
spirit ; living among Realists and Parnassians, he i 
had been creating a new form of art, the art of the i 
Symbolist drama, and of Symbolism in fiction. \ 
He had been lonely all his life, for he had been \ 



6o THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

living, in his own lifetime, the life of the next 
generation. There was but one man among his 
contemporaries to whom he could give, and from 
whom he could receive, perfect sympathy. That 
man was Wagner. Gradually the younger men 
came about him ; at the end he was not lacking in 
disciples. 

And, after all, the last word of Villiers is faith ; 
faith against the evidence of the senses, against the 
negations of materialistic science, against the 
monstrous paradox of progress, against his own 
pessimism in the face of these formidable enemies. 
He affirms ; he " believes in soul, is very sure of 
God " ; requires no witness to the spiritual world 
of which he is always the inhabitant; and is 
content to lose his way in the material world, 
brushing off its mud from time to time with a dis- 
dainful gesture, as he goes on his way (to apply a 
significant word of Pater) " like one on a secret 
errand." 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 

That story of the Arabian Nights, which is at 
the same time a true story, the life of Rimbaud, 
has been told, for the first time, in the extravagant 
but valuable book of an anarchist of letters, who 
writes under the name of Paterne Berrichon, and 
who has since married Rimbaud's sister. La Vie 
de Jean-Arthur Rimbaud is full of curiosity for 
those who have been mystified by I know not what 
legends, invented to give wonder to a career, itself 
more wonderful than any of the inventions. The 
man who died at Marseilles, at the Hospital of the 
Conception, on March lO, 1 891, at the age of 
thirty-seven, nigociant, as the register of his death 
describes him, was a writer of genius, an innovator 
in verse and prose, who had written all his poetry 
by the age of nineteen, and all his prose by a year 
or two later. He had given up literature to travel 
hither and thither, first in Europe, then in Africa ; 



64 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

he had been an engineer, a leader of caravans, a 
merchant of precious merchandise. And this man, 
who had never written down a Une after those 
astonishing early experiments, was heard, in his 
last deUrium, talking of precisely such visions as 
those which had haunted his youth, and using, 
says his sister, " expressions of a singular and 
penetrating charm " to render these sensations of 
visionary countries. Here certainly is one of the 
most curious problems of literature : is it a problem 
of which we can discover the secret ? 

Jean-Nicolas-Arthur Rimbaud was born at 
Charleville, in the Ardennes, October 28, 1854. 
His father, of whom he saw little, was a captain 
in the army ; his mother, of peasant origin, was 
severe, rigid, and unsympathetic. At school he 
was an unwilling but brilliant scholar, and by his 
fifteenth year was well acquainted with Latin 
literature and intimately with French literature. 
It was in that year that he began to write poems, 
from the first curiously original : eleven poems 
dating from that year are to be found in his 
collected works. When he was sixteen he decided 
that he had had enough of school, and enough of 
home. Only Paris existed : he must go to Paris. 
The first time he went without a ticket ; he spent. 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 65 

indeed, fifteen days in Paris, but he spent them in 
Mazas, from which he was released and restored to 
his home by his schoolmaster. The second time, 
a few days later, he sold his watch, which paid for 
his railway ticket. This time he threw himself on 
the hospitality of Andrd Gill, a painter and verse- 
writer, of some little notoriety then, whose address 
he had happened to come across. The uninvited 
guest was not welcomed, and after some penniless 
days in Paris he tramped back to Charleville. The 
third time (he had waited iive months, writing 
poems, and discontented to be only writing poems) 
he made his way to Paris on foot, in a heat of 
revolutionary sympathy, to offer himself to the 
insurgents of the Commune. Again he had to 
return on foot. Finally, having learnt with diffi- 
culty that a man is not taken at his own valuation 
until he has proved his right to be so accepted, he 
sent up the MS. of his poems to Verlaine. The 
MS. contained Le Bateau Ivre, Les Premieres 
Communions, Ma Boheme, Roman, Les Effares, 
and, indeed, all but a few of the poems 
he ever wrote. Verlaine was overwhelmed with 
delight, and invited him to Paris. A local admirer 
lent him the money to get there, and from October 
1871 to July 1872 he was Verlaine's guest. 

E 



66 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

The boy of seventeen, already a perfectly original 
poet, and beginning to be an equally original prose- 
writer, astonished the whole Parnasse, Banville, 
Hugo himself. On Verlaine his influence was 
more profound. The meeting brought about one 
of those lamentable and admirable disasters which 
make and unmake careers. Verlaine has told us 
in his Confessions that, "in the beginning, there 
was no question of any sort of affection or 
sympathy between two natures so different as that 
of the poet of the Assis and mine, but simply of an 
extreme admiration and astonishment before this 
boy of sixteen, who had already written things, as 
Fdn^on has excellently said, ' perhaps outside 
literature.' " This admiration and astonishment 
passed gradually into a more personal feeling, and 
it was under the influence of Rimbaud that the 
long vagabondage of Verlaine's life began. The 
two poets wandered together through Belgium, 
England, and again Belgium, from July 1872 to 
August 1873, when there occurred that tragic parting 
at Brussels which left Verlaine a prisoner for eighteen 
months, and sent Rimbaud back to his family. 
He had already written all the poetry and prose 
that he was ever to write, and in 1873 he printed 



at Brussels Une Saison en Enfer. ft was the 



id in 1873,1 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 67 

only book he himself ever gave to the press, and 
no sooner was it printed than he destroyed the 
whole edition, with the exception of a few copies, 
of which only Verlaine's copy, I believe, still exists. 
Soon began new wanderings, with their invariable 
return to the starting-point of Charleville : a few 
days in Paris, a year in England, four months in 
Stuttgart (where he was visited by Verlaine), Italy, 
France again, Vienna, Java, Holland, Sweden, 
Egypt, Cyprus, Abyssinia, and then nothing but 
Africa, until the final return to France. He had 
been a teacher of French in England, a seller of 
key-rings in the streets of Paris, had unloaded 
vessels in the ports, and helped to gather in the 
harvest in the country ; he had been a volunteer in 
the Dutch army, a military engineer, a trader ; and 
now physical sciences had begun to attract his 
insatiable curiosity, and dreams of the fabulous 
East began to resolve themselves into dreams of a 
romantic commerce with the real East. He became 
a merchant of coffee, perfumes, ivory, and gold, 
in the interior of Africa ; then an explorer, a pre- 
decessor, and in his own regions, of Marchand. 
After twelve years' wandering and exposure in 
Africa he was attacked by a malady of the knee, 
which rapidly became worse. He was transported 



68 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

/ first to Aden, then to Marseilles, where, in May 
I 1 89 1, his leg was amputated. Further complica- 
tions set in. He insisted, first, on being removed to 
his home, then on being taken back to Marseilles. 
His sufferings were an intolerable torment, and 
^^more cruel to him was the torment of his desire to 
live. He died inch by inch, fighting every inch ; 
and his sister's quiet narrative of those last months 
is agonising. He died at Marseilles in November, 
"prophesying," says his sister, and repeating, 
" Allah Kerim ! Allah Kerim ! " 

The secret of Rimbaud, I think, and the reason 
why he was able to do the unique thing in litera- 
ture which he did, and then to disappear quietly 
and become a legend in the East, is that his mind 
^ - was not the mind of the artist but of the man of 

/J>- action. He was a dreamer, but all his dreams 
were discoveries. To him it was an identical act 
of his temperament to write the sonnet of the 
Vowels and to trade in ivory and frankincense 
with the Arabs. He lived with all his faculties at 
every instant of his life, abandoning himself to 
himself with a confidence which was at once his 

' strength and (looking at things less absolutely) his 
weakness. \ To the student of success, and what is 
relative in-^achievement, he illustrates the danger of 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 69 

one's over-possession by one's own genius, just as 
aptly as the saint in the cloister does, or the mystic 
too full of God to speak intelligibly to the world, 
or the spilt wisdom of the drunkard. The artist 
who is above all things an artist cultivates a little 
choice corner of himself with elaborate care ; he , 
brings miraculous flowers to growth there, but the/ 
rest of the garden is but mown grass o*- tangled 
bushes. That is why many excellent writers, very 
many painters, and most musicians are so tedious 
on any subject but their own. Is it not tempting, 
does it not seem a devotion rather than a supersti- 
tion, to worship the golden chalice in which the 
wine has been made God, as if the chalice were the 
reality, and the Real Presence the symbol ? The 
artist, who is only an artist, circumscribes his 
intelligence into almost such a fiction, as he 
reverences the work of his own hands. But there 
are certain natures (great or small, Shakespeare or 
Rimbaud, it makes no difference) to whom the 
work is nothing ; the act of working, everything. 
Rimbaud was a small, narrow, hard, precipitate 
nature, which had the will to live, and nothing but 
the will to live ; and his verses, and his follies, and 
his wanderings, and his traffickings were but the 
breathing of different hours in his day. 



70 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

pi^ That is why he is so swift, definite, and quickly 
exhausted in vision ; why he had his few things to 
say, each an action with consequences./_JHe invents 
new ways of saying things, not because he is a 
learned artist, but because he is burning to say 
them, and he has none of the hesitations of know- 
ledge.yHe leaps right over or through the con- 
ventiSns that had been standing in everybody's 
way ; he has no time to go round, and no respect 
for trespass-boards, and so he becomes the enfant 
terrible of literature, playing pranks (as in that 
sonnet of the Vowels), knocking down barriers for 
the mere amusement of the thing, getting all the 
possible advantage of his barbarisms in mind and 
conduct^? And so, in life, he is first of all con- 
spicuous as a disorderly liver, a revolter against 
morals as against prosody, though we may imagine 
that, in his heart, morals meant as little to him, one 
way or the other, as prosody. Later on, his revolt 
seems to be against civilisation itself, as he dis- 
appears into the deserts of Africa. And it is, if 
you like, a revolt against civilisation, but the revolt 
is instinctive, a need of the organism ; it is not 
doctrinal, cynical, a conviction, a sentiment. 

Always, as he says, revant univers fantastiques, 
he is conscious of the danger as well as the ecstasy 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 71 

of that divine imitation ; for he says : " My life 
will always be too vast to be given up wholly to 
force and beauty." J^ attends Dieu avec gourmandise, 
he cries, in a fine rapture ; and then, sadly enough : 
" I have created all the feasts, all the triumphs, 
all the dramas of the world. I have set myself to 
invent new flowers, a new flesh, a new language, 
I have fancied that I have attained supernatural 
power. Well, I have now only to put my imagi- 
nation and my memories in the grave. What a 
fine artist's and storyteller's fame thrown away ! " 
See how completely he is conscious, and how com- 
pletely he is at the mercy, of that hallucinatory rage of 
vision, vision to him being always force, power, crea- 
tion, which on some of his pages seems to become sheer 
madness, and on others a kind of wild but absolute 
insight. He will be silent, he tells us, as to all 
that he contains within his mind, " greedy as the 
sea," for otherwise poets and visionaries would 
envy him his fantastic wealth. And, in that Nuit 
d'Enfer, which does not bear that title in vain, he 
exalts himself as a kind of saviour ; he is in the 
circle of pride in Dante's hell, and he has lost all 
sense of limit, really believes himself to be "no 
one and some one." Then, in the Alchimie du 
Verbe, he becomes the analyst of his own hallucina- 



72 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

tions. " I believe in all the enchantments," he 
tells us; " I invented the colour of the vowels : 
A, black ; E, white ; I, red ; O, blue ; U, green.* 
I regulated the form and the movement of every 
consonant, and, with instinctive rhythms, I flattered 
myself that I had invented a poetic language 
accessible, one day or another, to every shade of 
meaning. I reserved to myself the right of trans- 
lation ... I accustomed myself to simple hallu- 
cination : I saw, quite frankly, a mosque in place 
of a factory, a school of drums kept by the angels, 

* Here is the famous sonnet, which must be taken, as it was 
meant, without undue seriousness, and yet as something more 
than a mere joke. 

VOYELLES. 

A noir, E blanc, I rouge, U vert, bleu, voyelles, 
Je dirai quelquejour vos naissances latentes. 
A , noir corset velu des mouches eclatantes 

Qui bombillent autour des fuanteurs arables, 

Golfe d'ombre ; E, candeur des vapeurs et des tetUes, 
Lance des glaciers fiers, rois blancs, frissons d'cmbelles ; 
I, pourpres, sang crache, rire des levres belles 

Dans la colere ou les ivresses penitentes ; 

U, cycles, vibrements divins des mers virides, 
Paix des pdtis semes d'animaux, paix des rides 
Que Valchimie imprime aux grands fronts studieux ; 

0, supreme clairon plein de strideurs etranges, 
Silences traverses des mondes et des Anges ; 
— I'Omega, rayon vtolet de Ses Yeux ! 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 73 

post-chaises on the roads of heaven, a drawing- 
room at the bottom of a lake ; monsters, mysteries; 
the title of a vaudeville raised up horrors before me. 
Then I explained my magical sophisms by the 
hallucination of words ! I ended by finding some- 
thing sacred in the disorder of my mind." Then 
he makes the great discovery. Action, one sees, 
this fraudulent and insistent will to live, has been 
at the root of all these mental and verbal orgies, in 
which he has been wasting the very substance of 
his thought. Well, " action," he discovers, " is 
not life, but a way of spoiling something." Even 
this is a form of enervation, and must be rejected 
from the absolute. Mon devoir nUest remis. II ne 
faut pltis songer a cela. Je suis re'ellement cPoutre- 
tombe, et pas de commissions. 

It is for the absolute that he seeks, always ; the 
absolute which the great artist, with his careful 
wisdom, has renounced seeking. And he is con- 
tent with nothing less ; hence his own contempt 
for what he has done, after all, so easily ; for what 
has come to him, perhaps through his impatience, 
but imperfectly. jHe is a dreamer in whom dream 
is swift, hard in outline, coming suddenly and 
going suddenly, a real thing, but seen only in 
passing. /Visions rush past him, he cannot arrest 



74 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

them ; they rush forth from him, he cannot restrain 
their haste to be gone, as he creates them in the 
mere indiscriminate idleness of energy. And so 
this seeker after the absolute leaves but a broken 
medley of fragments, into each of which he has 
put a little of his personality, which he is for ever 
dramatising, by multiplying one facet, so to speak, 
after another. Very genuinely, he is now a beaten 
and wandering ship, flying in a sort of intoxication 
before the wind, over undiscovered seas ; now a 
starving child outside a baker's window, in the 
very ecstasy of hunger ; now la victime et la petite 
epouse of the first communion ; now : 

Je ne parlerai pas, je ne penserai rien ; 
Mais r amour infini me montera dans fame, 
Et firai loin, bien loin, comme un boh'emien. 
Par la Nature, heureux comme avec une femme 1 

He catches at verse, at prose, invents a sort of 
vers litre before any one else, not quite knowing 
what to do with it, invents a quite new way of 
wjdting prose, which Laforgue will turn to account 
later on ; and having suggested, with some im- 
patience, half the things that his own and the next 
generation are to busy themselves with developing, 
he gives up writing, as an inadequate form, to 
which he is also inadequate. 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 75 

What, then, is the actual value of Rimbaud's 
work, in verse and prose, apart from its relative 
values of so many kinds ? I think, considerable ; 
though it will probably come to rest on two or 
three pieces of verse, and a still vaguer accomplish- 
ment in prose. He brought into French verse 
something of that " gipsy way of going with nature, 
as with a woman " ; a vefy~young, very crude, very 
defiant and sometimes very masterly sense of just 
those real things which are too close to us to be 
seen by most people with any clearness. He could 
render_j)h Ysical sen sation, of the subtlest kind, 
without making any~c6mpromise with language, 
forcing language to speak straight, taming it as one 
would tame a dangerous animal. And he kneaded 
prose as he kneaded verse, making it a disarticu- 
lated, abstract, mathematically lyrical thing. In 
verse, he pointed 'ffiewayto certain new splendours, 
as to certain new naivete's ; there is the B'ilfeau 
Ivre, without which we might never have had 
Verlaine's Crimen Amoris. And, intertangled with 
what is ingenuous, and with what is splendid, there 
is a certain irony" which comes into that youthful 
work as if youth were already reminiscent of itself, 
so conscious is it that youth is youth, and that 
youth is passing. 



76 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

In all these ways, Rimbaud had his influence 
r upon Verlaine, and his influence upon Verlainewas 

Jove all the influence_ of the man of actioiTTipDn- 
i man of sens ation ; the influence of what is 
^.liiple, narrow, emphatic, upon what is subtle, 
complex, growing. Verlaine's rich, sensitive nature 
was just then tryin g to realise itself, Just because 
it had such delicate possibilities, because there were 
so many directions in which it could grow, it was 
not at first quite sure of_its way. Rimbaud came 
into the life and art_of Verlain e, troubling both, 
with that trouble which reveals a man to himself. 
Having helped to make Verlaine a great ^)oe4, he 
could go. Note that he himself could never have 
developed : writing had been one of his discoveries; 
he could but make other discoveries, personal ones. 
Even in literature he had his future ; but his future 
was Verlaine. 



PAUL VERLAINE 



PAUL VERLAINE 

I 

BlEN affectueusement . . . yours, P. Verlaine." 
So, in its gay and friendly mingling of French and 
English, ended the last letter I had from Verlaine. 
A few days afterwards came the telegram from 
Paris telling me of his death, in the Rue Descartes, 
on that 8th January 1896. 

" Condemned to death," as he was, in Victor 
Hugo's phrase of men in general, " with a sort of 
indefinite reprieve," and gravely ill as I had for 
some time known him to be, it was still with a 
shock, not only of sorrow, but of surprise, that I 
heard the news of his death. He had suffered and 
survived so much, and I found it so hard to 
associate the idea of death with one who had 
always been so passionately in love with life, more 
passionately in love with life than any man I ever 
knew. Rest was one of the delicate privileges of 



8o THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

life which he never loved : he did but endure it 
with grumbling gaiety when a hospital-bed claimed 
him. And whenever he spoke to me of the long 
rest which has now sealed his eyelids, it was with 
a shuddering revolt from the thought of ever going 
away into the cold, out of the sunshine which had 
been so warm to him. With all his pains, mis- 
fortunes, and the calamities which followed him 
step by step all his life, I think few men ever got 
so much out of their lives, or lived so fully, so 
intensely, with such a genius for living. That, 
indeed, is why he was a great poet. Verlaine was 
a man who gave its full value to every moment, 
who got out of every moment all that that moment 
had to give him. It was not always, not often, 
perhaps, pleasure. But it was energy, the vital 
force of a nature which was always receiving and 
giving out, never at rest, never passive, or in- 
different, or hesitating. It is impossible for me to 
convey to those who did not know him any notion 
of how sincere he was. The word " sincerity " 
seems hardly to have emphasis enough to say, 
in regard to this one man, what it says, ade- 
quately enough, of others. He sinnedj^.and it 
was^wjih_aiLJaiaJiuinajiity ; he repented, and it was 
with all his soul. And to every occurrence of the 



PAUL VERLAINE 8i 

day, to every mood of the mind^jQ_„every impulse 
of the creative instinct, he brought the same un- 
paralleled sharpness of sensation. When, in 1894, 
he was my guest in London, I was amazed by the 
exactitude of his memory of the mere turnings of 
the"strcets,'{Ee"shap^'and colours of the buildings, 
which he had not seen for twenty years. He saw, 
he felt, he remembered, everything, with an un- 
conscious mental selection of the fine shades, the 
essential part of things, or precisely those aspects 
which most other people would pass by. 

Few poets of our time have been more often 
drawn, few have been easier to draw, few have 
better repaid drawing, than Paul Verlaine. A face 
without a beautiful line, a face all character, full of 
somnolence and sudden fire, in which every 
irregularity was a kind of aid to the crayon, could 
not but tempt the artist desiring at once to render 
a significant likeness and to have his own part in 
the creation of a picture. Verlaine, like all men of 
genius, had something of the air of the somnambu- 
list : that profound slumber of the face, as it was in 
him, with its startling awakenings. It was a face 
devoured by dreams, feverish and somnolent; it had 
earthly passion, intellectual pride, spiritual humility ; 
the air of one who remembers, not without an 

F 



82 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

effort, who is listening, half distractedly to some- 
thing which other people do not hear ; coming back 
so suddenly, and from so far, with the relief of one 
who steps out of that obscure shadow into the 
noisier forgetfulness of life. The eyes, often half 
closed, were like the eyes of a cat between sleeping 
and waking; eyes in which contemplation was 
" itself an act." A remarkable lithograph by Mr. 
Rothenstein (the face lit by oblique eyes, the folded 
hand thrust into the cheek)^ives with singular 
truth the sensation of that^.-festless watch on things 
which this prisoner of so many chains kept without 
slackening. To Verlaine every corner of the world 
was alive with tempting and consoling and terrifying 
beauty. I have never known any one to whom the 
sight of the eyes was so intense and imaginative a 
thing. To him, physical sight and spiritual vision, 
by some strange alchemical operation of the brain, 
were one. And in the disquietude of his face, 
which seemed to take such close heed of things, 
precisely because it was sufficiently apart from 
them to be always a spectator, there was a realisable 
process of vision continually going on, in which all 
the loose ends of the visible world were being 
caught up into a new mental fabric. 

And along with this fierce subjectivity, into 



PAUL VERLAINE 83 

which the egoism of the artist entered so uncon- 
sciously^ aild in which it counted for so much, there 
Was more than the usual amount of childishness, 
always in some measure present in men„Qf-,,gjsnius. 
There was a real, almost blithe, childishness in the 
way in which he would put on his " Satanic " 
expression, of which it was part of the ToKe' that 
every one should not be quite in the secret. It was 
a whim of this kind which made him put at the 
beginning of Romances sans Paroles that very 
criminal image of a head which had so little resem- 
blance with even the shape, indeed curious enough, 
of his actual head. " Born under the sign of 
Saturn," as he no doubt was, with that "old 
prisoner's head " of which he tells us, it was by his 
amazing faculty for a simple kind of happiness that 
he always impressed me. I have never seen so 
cheerful an invalid as he used to be at that hospital, 
the Hopital Saint-Louis, where at one time I used 
to go and see him every week. His whole face 
seemed to chuckle as he would tell me, in his 
emphatic, confiding way, everything that entered 
into his head ; the droll stories cut short by a 
groan, a lamentation, a sudden fury of reminiscence, 
at which his face would cloud or convulse, the wild 
eyebrows slanting up and down ; and then, suddenly, 



84 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

the good laugh would be back, clearing the air. 
No one was ever so responsive to his own moods 
as Verlaine, and with him every mood had the 
vehemence of a passion. Is not his whole ar^a 
delicate waiting upon moods, with that perfect 
confidence in them as they are, which it is a large 
part of ordinary education to discourage in us, and 
a large part of experience to repress ? But to 
Verlaine, happily, experience taught nothing; or 
rather, it taught him only to cling the more closely 
to those moods in whose succession lies the more 
intimate part of our spiritual life. 

It is no doubt well for society that man should 
learn by experience ; for the artist the benefit is 
doubtful. The artist, it cannot be too clearly under- 
stood, has no more part in society than a monk in 
domestic life : he cannot be judged by its rules, he 
can be neither praised nor blamed for his acceptance 
or rejection of its conventions. Social rules are 
made by normal people for normal people, and the 
man of genius is fundamentally abnormal. It is 
the poet against society, society against the poet, a 
direct antagonism ; the shock of which, however, it 
is often possible to avoid by a compromise. So 
much licence is allowed on the one side, so much 
liberty foregone on the other. The consequences 



PAUL VERLAINE 85 

are not always of the best, art being generally the 
loser. But there are certain natures to which com- 
promise is impossible ; and the nature of Verlaine 
was one of these natures. 

"The soul of an immortal child," says one who 
has understood him better than others, Charles 
Morice, " that is the soul of Verlaine, with all the 
privileges and all the perils of so being : with the 
sudden despair so easily distracted, the vivid 
gaieties without a cause, the excessive suspicions 
and the excessive confidences, the whims so easily 
outwearied, the deaf and blind infatuations, with, 
especially, the unceasing renewal of impressions in 
the incorruptible integrity of personal vision and 
sensation. Years, influences, teachings, may pass 
over a temperament such as this, may irritate it, 
may fatigue it ; transform it, never — never so much 
as to alter that particular unity which consists in a 
duaUsm, in the division of forces between the 
longing after what is evil and the adoration of what 
is good ; or rather, in the antagonism of spirit and 
flesh. Other men ' arrange ' their lives, take sides, 
follow one direction ; Verlaine hesitates before a 
choice, which seems to him monstrojis, for, with 
the integral natveM of irrefutable human truth, he 
cannot resign himself, however strong may be the 



86 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

doctrine, however enticing may be the passion, to 
the necessity of sacrificing one to the other, and 
from one to the other he oscillates without a 
moment's repose." 

It is in such a sense as this that Verlaine may 
be said to have learnt nothing from experience, in 
the sense that he learnt everything direct from life, 
and without comparing day with day. That the 
exquisite artist of the Fetes Gdlantes should become 
the great poet of Sagesse, it was needful that things 
should have happened as disastrously as they did : 
the marriage with the girl-wife, that brief idyl, the 
passion for drink, those other forbidden passions, 
vagabondage, an attempted crime, the eighteen 
months of prison, conversion; followed, as it had 
to be, by relapse, bodily sickness, poverty, beggary 
almost, a lower and lower descent into mean dis- 
tresses. It was needful that all this should happen, 
in order that the spirituaJLYisiQn.„shpuId eclipse the 
material vision : but it was needful that all this 
should happen in vain, so far as the conduct of life 
was concerned. Reflection, in Verlaine, is pure 
waste ;ut is the speech of the soul and the speech 
of the eyes, that we must listen to in his verse, 
never the speech of the reason.*] And I call him 
fortunate because, going through life with a great 



PAUL VERLAINE 87 

unconsciousness of what most men spend their 
lives in considering, he was able to abandon him- 
self entirely to himself, to his un impeded vision, to 
his unc hecked emoti on, to the p assionate since rity 
which in him was genius. 



II 

French poetry, before Verlaine, was an admirable 
vehicle for a really fine, a really poetical, kind of 
rhetoric. With Victor Hugo, for the first time 
since Ronsard (the two or three masterpieces of 
Ronsard and his companions) it had learnt to sing ; 
with Baudelaire it had invented a new vocabulary 
for the expression of subtle, often perverse, essen- 
tially modern emotion and sensation. But with 
Victor Hugo, with Baudelaire, we are still under 
the dominion of rhetoric. " Take eloquence, and 
wring its neck ! " said Verlaine in his Art Poe'tique ; 
and (he showed, by writing it, that French verse 
, could be written without rhetoricT^ It was partly 
from his study of English models that he learnt the 
secret of liberty in verse, but it was much more a 
secret found by the way, in the mere endeavour to 



88 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

be absolutely sincere, to express exactly what he 
saw, to give voice to his own temperament, in 
which intensity of feeling seemed to find its own 
expression, as if by accident. Vart, me s enfanfs, 
(lest d'etre absolument soi-meme, he tells us in one 
of his later poems ; and, with such a personality as 
Verlaine's to express, what more has art to do, if it 
would truly, and in any interesting manner, hold 
the mirror up to nature ? 

For, consider the natural qualities which this 
man had for the task of creating a new poetry. 
" Sincerity, and the impression of the moment 
followed to the letter " : that is how he defined his 
theory of style, in an article written about himself. 

Car nous vouhns la nuance encor. 
Pas la couleur, rien que la nuance ! 

as he cries, in his famous Art Poe'tique. Take, then, 
his susceptibility of the senses, an emotional sus- 
ceptibility not less delicate ; fa^^ life sufficiently 
troubled to draw out every emotion of which he 
was capable, and, with it, that absorption in the 
moment, that inability to look before or after ; the 
need to love and the need to confess, each a 
passion ; an art of painting the fine shades of land- 
scape, of evoking atmosphere, which can be com- 



PAUL VERLAINE 89 

pared only with the art of Whistler; a simplicity 
of language which is the direct outcome of a sim- 
plicity of temperament, with just enough conscious- 
ness of itself for a final elegance ; and, at the very 
depth of his being, an almost fierce humility, by 
which the passion of love, after searching furiously 
through all his creatures, finds God by the way, 
and kneels in the dust before himTj Verlaine was 
never a theorist : he left theories to Mallarm^. 
"He had only his djyinati on ; and he divined that 
poetry, always desiring that miracles should happen, 
had never waited patiently enough upon the miracle. 
It was by that proud and humble mysticism of his 
temperament that he came to realise how much 
" could be done by, in a £ense, trying to do nothing. 
And then-i- ~Xl&.Jamusique avant toute chose; 
De .Ja~ musique^encore _et., toujours ! There are 
poems of Verlaine which go as far as verse can go 
to become pujrejnusic, the voice of a bird with a 
human soul. It is part of his simplicity, his divine 
childishness, that he abajadons^himself, at times, to 
the song which words begin to sing in the air, with 
the same wise confidence witK which he abandons 
himself to the other miracles about him. He 
knows that\words are living things, which we have 
not created, and which go their way without de- 



90 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

manding of us the right to live^ He knows that 
words are suspicious, not without their malice, and 
that they resist mere force with the impalpable 
resistance of fire or water. They are to be caught 
only with guile or ^v^iffr- trusts Verlaine has both, 
and words become Ariel /to him. They bring him 
not only that subnjis§i<wi of the slave which they 
bring to others, but all the soul, and in a happy 
bondage. They transform themselves for him into 
music, colour, and shadow ; a disembodied music, 
diaphanous colours, luminous shadow. They serve 
him with so absolute a self-negation that he can 
wnte,j:ofnan(ies,.. sans paroles, songs almost without 
words, in which scarcely a sense of the interference 
of human speech remains. ^Ihe ideal of lyric 
poetry, certainly, is to be this passive, flawless 
medium for the deeper consciousness of things, the 
.mysterious voice of that mystery which lies about 
us, out of which we have come, and into which we 
shall return.^ It is not without reason that we 
cannot analyse a perfect lyric. 

With Verlaine the sense of hearing and the sense 
of sight are almost interchangeable : h e paints with 
sound, and his I jne and at mosphere becqni e mus ic. 
It was with the most precise accuracy that Whistler 
applied the terms of music to his painting, for 



PAUL VERLAINE 91 

painting, when it aims at being the vision of 
reality, pas la couleur, rien que la nuance, passes 
almost into the condition of music. Verlaine's 
landscape painting is always an evocation, in which 
outline is lost in atmosphere. 

C^est des beaux yeux derriire des voiles, 
C'est le grand jour tremblant de mini, 
C'est, par un del d'automne attiidi, 

Le bleu fouillis des claires etoiles! 

He was a man, certainly, " for whom the visible 

I world existed," but for whom it existed always as 

\ a vision. He absorbed it through all his senses, 

as the true mystic absorbs the divine beauty. And 

so he created in verse a new voice for nature, full 

of the humble ecstasy with which he saw, listened, 

accepted. 

Cette ame qui se lamente 
En cette plaine dormante 

C'est la notre, n'est-ce pas P 
La mienne, dis, et la tienne, 
Dont s' exhale I' humble antienne 

Par ce tiede soir, tout bas ? 

And with the same attentive simplicity with 
which he found words for the- sensations of hearing 
and the sensations of sight, he found words for the 



92 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

sensations of the soul, for the fine shades of feeling. 
From the moment when his inner life may be said 
to have begun, he was occupied with the task of an 
unceasing confession, in which one seems to over- 
hear him talking to himself, in that vague, pre- 
occupied way which he often had. Here again 
are words which startle one by their delicate 
resemblance to thoughts, by their winged flight from 
so far, by their alighting so close. The verse 
murmurs, with such an ingenuous confidence, such 
intimate secrets. Tha t "setting; free" of verse, 
which is one of the achievements of , Verla ine, was 
itself mainly an attempt to be more and more 
sincere, a way of turning poetic artifice to new 
account, by getting back to nature itself, hidden 
away under the eloquent rhetpdc^f Hugo, Baude- 
laire, and the Parnassians, i In the devotion of 
rhetoric to either beauty or truth, there is a certain 
consciousness of an audience, of an external judg- 
ment : rhetoric would convince, be admired. Wt is 
the very essence of poetry to be unconscious of 
anything between its own moment of flight and 
"the supreme beauty which it will never attaint 
Verlaine taught French poetry that wise and subtle 
unconsciousness. It was in so doing that he 
" fused his personality," in the words of Verhaeren, 



PAUL VERLAINE 93 

" so profoundly with beauty, that he left upon it 
the imprint of a new and henceforth eternal 
attitude." 



Ill 

J^ai la fureur d'aimer, says Verlaine, in a passage 
of very personal significance. 

J^ai la fureur d'aimer. Mon cceur sifaible estfou. 
N'importe quand, n'importe quel et riimprte oil, 
Qu'un eclair de beaute, de vertu, de vaillance, 
Luise, il s^y precipite, il y vole, il y lance, 
Et, le temps dune etreinte, il embrasse cent fits 
L'etre ou I'objet qu'il a poursuivi de son choix ; 
Puis, quand Pillusion a replie son aile, 
11 revient triste et seul bien souvent, mais fidele, 
Et laissant aux ingrats quelque chose de lui. 
Sang ou chair .... 

J'ai la fureur d'aimer. ^'y faire ? Ah, laissez 
faire ! 

And certainly this admirable, and supremely 
dangerous, quality was at the root of Verlaine's 
nature. Instinctive, unreasoning as he was, entirely 
at the mercy of the emotion or impression which, 
for the moment, had seized upon him, it was inevit- 
able that he should be completely at the mercy of 



94 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

the most imperious of instincts, of passions, and of 
intoxications. And he had the simple and ardent 
nature, in this again consistently childlike, to which 
love, some kind of affection, given or returned, is 
not the luxury, the exception, which it is to many 
natures, but a daily necessity. To such a tem- 
perament there may or may not be the one great 
passion ; there will certainly be many passions. 
And in Verlaine I find that single, childlike 
necessity-TSf loving and being loved, all through 
his life and on every page of his works ; I find • 
it, unchanged in essence, but constantly changing 
form, in his chaste and unchaste devotions to 
women, in his passionate friendships with men, in 
his supreme mystical adoration of God. 

To turn from Lm Bonne Chanson, written for a 
wedding present to a young wife, to Chansons pour 



Elk, written more than twenty years later, in 
dubious honour of a middle-aged mistress, is to 
travel a long road, the hard, long road which 
Verlaine had travelled during those years. His 
life was ruinous, a disaster, more sordid perhaps 
than the life of any other poet ; and he could write 
of it, from a hospital-bed, with this quite sufficient 
sense of its deprivations. " But all the same, it is 
hard," he laments, in Mes Hdpitaux, " after a life 



PAUL VERLAINE 95 

of work, set off, I admit, with accidents in which I 
have had a large share, catastrophes perhaps 
vaguely premeditated — it is hard, I say, at forty- 
seven years of age, in full possession of all the 
reputation (of the success, to use the frightful 
current phrase) to which my highest ambitions 
could aspire — hard, hard, hard indeed, worse than 
hard, to find myself — good God ! — to find myself 
on the streets, and to have nowhere to lay my head 
and support an ageing body save the pillows and 
the menus of a public charity, even now uncertain, 
and which might at any moment be withdrawn — 
God forbid ! — without, apparently, the fault of any 
one, oh ! not even, and above all, not mine." Yet, 
after all, these sordid miseries, this poor man's 
vagabondage, all the misfortunes of one certainly 
" irreclaimable," on which so much stress has been 
laid, alike by friends and by foes, are externalities ; 
they are not the man ; (^e man, the eternal lover, 
passionate and humble, remains unchangecf^while' 
only his shadow wanders, from morning to night of 

I ^e long day. 

[/""^he poems to Rimbaud, to Lucien L^tinois, to 
others, the whole volume of Dedicaces, cover per- 
haps as wide a range of sentiment as La Bonne 
Chanson and Chansons pour Elk. The poetry of 



96 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

friendship has never been sung with such plaintive 
sincerity, such simple human feeling, as in some of 
these poems, which can only be compared, in 
modern poetry, with a poem for which Verlaine 
had a great admiration, Tennyson's In Memoriam. 
Only, with Verlaine, the thing itself, the affection 
»r the regret, is ^vgcjdhiag ; there is no room for 
meditation over destiny, or search for a proble- 
matical consolation. Other poems speak a more 
difficult language, in which, doubtless, Vennui de 
vtvre avec les gens et dans les choses counts for 
much, and lafureur d^aimer for more. 

In spite of the general impression to the con- 
trary, an impression which by no means displeased 
him himself, I must contend that the sensuality of 
Verlaine, brutal as it could sometimes be, was after 
all simple rather than complicated, instinctive rather 
than perverse, (in the poetry of Baudelaire, with 
which the poetry of Verlaine is so often compared, 
the re is a deliherate science of sensual perversit y 
which has something almost monachal in its ac- 
centuation of vice with horror, in its passionate 
devotion to passions*! Baudelaire brings every 
complication of taste, the exasperation of perfumes, 
the irritant of cruelty, the very odours and colours 
of corruption, to the creation and adornment of a 



PAUL VERLAINE 97 

sort of religion, in which an eternal mass is served 
before a veiled altar. There is no confession, no 
absolution, not a prayer is permitted which is not 
set down in the ritual. With Verlaine, however 
often love may pass into sensuality, to whatever 
length sensuality may be hurried, sensuality is 
never more than the malady of lov e. It is love 
desiring the absolute, seeking in vain, seeking 
always, and, finally, out of the depths, finding 
God. 

Verlaine's conversion took place while he was in 
prison, during these solitary eighteen months in 
company with his thoughts, that enforced physical 
inactivity, which could but concentrate his whole 
energy on the only kind of sensation then within 
his capacity, the sensations of the soul and of the 
conscience. With that promptitude of abandon- 
ment which was his genius, he grasped feverishly 
at the succour of God and the Church, he abased 
himself before the immaculate purity of the Virgin. 
He had not, like others who have risen from the 
same depths to the same height of humiliation, to 
despoil his nature of its pride, to^onquer his 
intellect, before he could become V enfant vetu de 
laine et d'innocence. All that was simple, humble, 
childlike in him accepted that humiliation with the 

G 



98 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

loving child's joy in penitence ; all that was ardent, 
impulsive, indomitable in him burst at once into a 
flame of adoration. 

He realised the great secret of the Christian 
mystics : that it is possible to love God with an 
extravagance of the whole being, to which the love 
of the creature cannot attain. All love is an 
attempt to break throusfh the lonelinesso f indi- 
viduality^ to fuse oneself with something not 
oneself, to give and to receive, in all the warmth 
of natural desire, that inmost element which 
remains, so cold and so invincible, in the midst of 

the soul. It is a Hf ciVp f)f thp infini tp jn hiirn anityj 

and, as humanity has its limits, it can but return 
sadly upon itself when that limit is reached. 
Thus human love is not only an ecstasy but a 
despair, and the more profound a despair the more 
ardently it is returned. 

But the love of God, considered only from its 
human aspect, contains at least the illusion of 
infinity. To love God is to love the, absolute, so 
far as the mind of man can conceive the absolute 
and thus, in a sense, to love God is to possess the 
absolute, for love has already possessed that which 
it apprehends. What the earthly lover realises to 
himself as the image of his beloved is, after all, his 



PAUL VERLAINE 99 

own vision of love, not her. God must remain 
deus absconditus, even to love ; but the lover, in- 
capable of possessing infinity, will have possessed 
all of infinity of which he is capable. And his 
ecstasy will be flawless. The human mind, medi- 
tating on infinity, can but discover perfection 
beyond perfection ; for it is impossible to conceive 
of limitation in any aspect of that which has once 
been conceived as infinite. In place of that decep- 
tion which comes from the shock of a boundary- 
line beyond which humanity cannot conceive of 
humanity, there is only a divine rage against the 
limits of human perception, which by their own 
failure seem at last to limit for us the infinite 
itself. For once, love finds itself bounded only 
by its own capadly7'~«)~tar"~dnes the love of 
God exceed the love of the creature, and so 
far w'Qirld" it exceed- that love if God did not 
exist. 

But if he does exist ! if, outside humanity, a 
conscient, eternal perfection, who has made the 
world in his image, loves the humanity he has 
made, and demands love in return I If the spirit 
of his love is as a breath over the world, suggesting, 
strengthening, the love which it desires, seeking 
man that man may seek God, itself the impulse 



100 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

which it humbles itself to accept at man's hands ; 
if, indeed, 

Mon Dieu m'a dit : monfils, ilfaut m^ aimer ; 

how much more is this love of God, in its incon- 
ceivable acceptance and exchange, the most divine, 
the only unending, intoxication in the world ! Well, 
it is this realised sense of communion, point by 
point realised, and put into words, more simple, 
more human, more instinctive than any poet since 
the mediaeval mystics has Toutiff for the delights of 
this intercourse, that we find in .^^asas^and in the 
other religious poems of Verlaine. 

But, with Verlaine, the love of God is not merely a 
rapture, it is a thanksgiving Jforjforgiveness. Lying 
in wait~BeHin3 all the fair appearances^f the world, 
he remembeiis the old-enemy^, the flesh ; and the 
sense of sin (tKatstrange paradox of the reason) is 
t*ildishIy"jtfong in him. He laments his offence, 
he sees not only tKe love Jbut ^he justice of God, 
and it seems to him, as in a picture, that the little 
hands of the Virgin are clasped in petition for him. 
Verlaine's religion is the religion of the Middle 
Ages. Je suis catholique, he said to ' me, mats 
.... catholique du moyen-dge/ He might have 
written the ballad which Villon made for his mother. 



PAUL VERLAINE loi 

and with the same visual sense of heaven and hell. 
Like a child, he tells his sins over, promises that 
he has put them behind him, and finds such naive, 
human words to express his gratitude. The Virgin 
is really, to him, mother and friend ; he delights in 
the simple, peasant humanity, still visible in her 
who is also the Mystical Rose, the Tower of Ivory, ' 
the Gate of Heaven, and who now extends her 
hands, in the gesture of pardon, from a throne only 
just lower than the throne of God. 



IV 

Experience, I have said, taught Verlaine nothing; 
religion had no more stable influence'upon his con- 
duct than experience. In that apology for himself 
whicfi~Ii6^-WF©te" under the anagram of " Pauvre 
Lelian," he has stated the c^se-jvith_hisjiisual sin- 
cerity. " I believe," he says, " and I sin in thought 
as in action ; I believe, and I repent in thought, 
if no more. Or again, I believe, and I am a good 
Christian at this moment ; I believe, and I am a 
bad Christian the instant after. The remembrance, 
the hope, the invocation of a sin deUghts me, with 



102 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

or without remorse, sometimes under the very form 
of sin, and hedged with all its natural consequences ; 
more often — so strong, so natural and animal, are 
flesh and blood — just in the same manner as the 
remembrances, hopes, invocations of any carnal 
freethinker. This delight, I, you, some one else, 
writers, it pleases us to put to paper and publish 
more or less well expressed : we consign it, in 
short, into literary form, forgetting all religious 
ideas, or not letting one of them escape us. Can 
any one in good faith condemn us as poet ? A 
hundred times no." And, indeed, I should echo, a 
hundred times no ! It is just this apparent com- 
plication of what is really a great simplicity which 
gives its singular value to the poetry of Verlaine, 
permitting it to sum up in itself the whole paradox 
of humanity, and especially the weak, passionate, 
uncertain, troubled century to which we belong, in 
which so many doubts, negations, and distresses 
seem, now more than ever, to be struggling towards 
at least an ideal of spiritual consolation. Verlaine 
is the poet of these weaknesses and of that ideal."^ 



JULES LAFORGUE 



JULES LAFORGUE 

Jules LAFORGUE was bom at Montevideo, 
of Breton parents, August 20, i860. He died in 
Paris in 1887, two days before his twenty-seventh 
birthday. From 1880 to 1886 he had been reader 
to the Empress Augusta at Berlin. He married 
only a few months before his death. D allures? 
says M. Gustave Kahn, fort correctes, de hauls 
gibus, des cravates sobres, des vestons anglais, des 
fardessus clergymans, et de par les ne'cessile's, un 
parapluie immuablement place sous le bras. His 
portraits show us a clean-shaved, reticent face, 
betraying little. With such a personality anec- 
dotes have but small chance of appropriating those 
details by which expansive natures express them- 
selves to the world. We know nothing about 
Laforgue which his work is not better able to tell 
us. The whole of that work is contained in two 
small volumes, one of prose, the Moralitis Legend- 



io6 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

aires, the other of verse, Les Complaintes, Limita- 
tion de Notre-Dame la Lune, and a few other pieces, 
all published during the last three years of his life. 
The prose and verse of Laforgue, scrupulously 
correct, but with a new manner of correctness, owe 
more than any one has realised to the half-uncon- 
scious prose and verse of Rimbaud. Verse and 
prose are alike a kind of travesty, making subtle 
use of colloquialism, slang, neologism, technical 
terms, for their allusive, their factitious, their 
reflected meanings, with which one can play, very 
seriously. The verse is alert, troubled, swaying, 
deliberately uncertain, hating rhetoric so piously 
that it prefers, and finds its piquancy in, the ridicu- 
lously obvious. It is really vers libre, but at the 
same time correct verse, before vers libre had been 
invented. And it carries, as far as that theorj- has 
ever been carried, the theory which demands an 
instantaneous notation (Whistler, let us say) of the 
figure or landscape which one has been accustomed 
to define with such rigorous exactitude. Verse, 
always elegant, is broken up into a kind of mockery 

of prose. 

Encore un de mes pierrots mort ; 

Mart iun chronique orphelinisme ; 

C'etait un cceur flein de dandy sme 
Lunaire, en un drole de corps; 



JULES LAFORGUE 107 

he will say to us, with a familiarity of manner, as 
of one talking languidly, in a low voice, the lips 
always teased into a slightly bitter smile ; and he 
will pass suddenly into the ironical lilt of 

Hotel garni 
De I'infini, 

Sphinx et Joconde 
Des defunts mondes; 

and from that into this solemn and smiling end of 
one of his last poems, his own epitaph, if you will : 

II frit froid P autre automne, 

S'etant attar di vers les peines des cars, 

Sur la fin iun beau jour. 

Oh! cefut pour vos cors, et cefut pour i^automne, 

^'il nous montra qu' " on meurt d'' amour ! " 

On ne le verra plus aux fetes nationales, 

S'enfermer dans PHistoire et tirer les verrous, 

II vint trap tard, il est reparti sans scandale ; 

O vous qui m'ecoutez^ rentrez chacun chez vous. 

The old cadences, the old eloquence, the ingenuous 
seriousness of poetry, are all banished, on a theory 
as self-denying as that which permitted Degas to 
dispense with recognisable beauty in his figures. 
Here, if ever, is modern verse, verse which dis- 
penses with so many of the privileges of poetry, for 



io8 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

an ideal quite of its own. It is, after all, a very 
self-conscious ideal, becoming artificial through its 
extreme naturalness; for in poetry it is not 
" natural " to say things quite so much in the 
manner of the moment, with however ironical an 
intention. 

The prose of the Moralites Ugendaires is perhaps 
even more of a discovery. Finding its origin, as I 
have pointed out, in the experimental prose of 
Rimbaud, it carries that manner to a singular per- 
fection. Disarticulated, abstract, mathematically 
lyrical, it gives expression, in its icy ecstasy, to a 
very subtle criticism of the universe, with a sur- 
prising irony of cosmical vision. We learn from 
books of mediaeval magic that the embraces of the 
devil are of a coldness so intense that it may be 
called, by an allowable figure of speech, fiery. 
Everything may be as strongly its opposite as 
itself, and that is why this balanced, chill, colloquial 
style of Laforgue has, in the paradox of its intensity, 
the essential heat of the most obviously emotional 
prose. The prose is more patient than the verse, 
with its more compassionate laughter at universal 
experience. It can laugh as seriously, as pro- 
foundly, as in that graveyard monologue of Hamlet, 
Laforgue's Hamlet, who, Maeterlinck ventures to 



JULES LAFORGUE 109 

say, " is at moments more Hamlet than the Hamlet 
of Shakespeare." Let me translate a few sentences 
from it. 

" Perhaps I have still twenty or thirty years to 
live, and I shall pass that way like the others. 
Like the others ? O Totality, the misery of being 
there no longer ! Ah ! I would like to set out 
to-morrow, and search all through the world for 
the most adamantine processes of embalming. 
They, too, were, the little people of History, 
learning to read, trimming their nails, lighting the 
dirty lamp every evening, in love, gluttonous, vain, 
fond of compliments, hand-shakes, and kisses, 
living on bell-tower gossip, saying, 'What sort of 
weather shall we have to-morrow ? Winter has 
really come. . . . We have had no plums this 
year.' Ah ! everything is good, if it would not 
come to an end. And thou. Silence, pardon the 
Earth ; the little madcap hardly knows what she is 
doing ; on the day of the great summing-up of 
consciousness before the Ideal, she will be labelled 
with a pitiful idem in the column of the miniature 7 
evolutions of the Unique Evolution, in the ' 
column of negligeable quantities ... To die ! 
Evidently, one dies without knowing it, as, every 
night, one enters upon sleep. One has no con- 



no THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

sciousness of the passing of the last lucid thought 
into sleep, into swooning, into death. Evidently. 
But to be no more, to be here no more, to be ours 
no more ! Not even to be able, any more, to press 
against one's human heart, some idle afternoon, the 
ancient sadness contained in one little chord on the 
piano ! " 

In these always " lunar " parodies, SalotM, 
Lohengrin, Fils de Parsifal, Per see et Andro- 
mede, each a kind of metaphysical myth, he 
realises that la creature va hardiment a gfre 
c£rdbrale, anti-naturelle, and he has invented these 
fantastic puppets with an almost Japanese art of 
spiritual dislocation. They are, in part, a way of 
taking one's revenge upon science, by an ironical 
borrowing of its very terms, which dance in his 
prose and verse, derisively, at the end of a string. 

In his acceptance of the fragility of things as 
actually a principle of art, Laforgue is a sort of 
transformed Watteau, showing his disdain for the 
world which fascinates him, in quite a different 
way. He has constructed his own world, lunar 
and actual, speaking slang and astronomy, with a 
constant disengaging of the visionary aspect, under 
which frivolity becomes an escape from the arro- 
gance of a still more temporary mode of being, the 



JULES LAFORGUE iii 

world as it appears to the sober majority. He is 
terribly conscious of daily life, cannot omit, mentally, 
a single hour of the day ; and his flight to the 
moon is in sheer desperation. He sees what he 
calls I'Inconscient in every gesture, but he can- 
not see it without these gestures. And he sees, 
not only as an imposition, but as a conquest, the 
possibilities for art which come from the sickly 
modern being, with his clothes, his nerves : the 
mere fact that he flowers from the soil of his epoch. 

It is an art of the nerves, this art of Laforgue, 
and it is what all art would tend towards if we 
followed our nerves on all their journeys. There 
is in it all the restlessness of modern life, the haste 
to escape from whatever weighs too heavily on the 
liberty of the moment, that capricious liberty which 
demands only room enough to hurry itself weary. 
It is distressingly conscious of the unhappiness of 
mortality, but it plays, somewhat uneasily, at a 
disdainful indifference. And it is out of these 
elements of caprice, fear, contempt, linked together 
by an embracing laughter, that it makes its exist- 
ence. 

// n'y a pas de type, il y a la vie, Laforgue 
replies to those who come to him with classical 
ideals. Votre ideal est bien vite magnifiquement 



112 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

submerge, in life itself, which should form its own 
art, an art deliberately ephemeral, with the attaching 
pathos of passing things. There is a great pity at 
the root of this art of Laforgue : self-pity, which 
extends, with the artistic sympathy, through mere 
clearness of vision, across the world. His laughter, 
which Maeterlinck has defined so admirably as 
" the laughter of the soul," is the laughter of 
Pierrot, more than half a sob, and shaken out of 
him with a deplorable gesture of the thin arms, 
thrown wide. He is a metaphysical Pierrot, 
Pierrot lunaire, and it is of abstract notions, the 
whole science of the unconscious, that he makes 
his showman's patter. As it is part of his manner 
not to distinguish between irony and pity, or even 
belief, we need not attempt to do so. Heine 
should teach us to understand at least so much of 
a poet who could not otherwise resemble him less. 
In Laforgue, sentiment is squeezed out of the 
world before one begins to play at ball with it. 

And so, of the two, he is the more hopeless. 
He has invented a new manner of being Ren6 or 
Werther : an inflexible poHteness towards man, 
woman, and destiny. He composes love-poems hat 
in hand, and smiles with an exasperating tolerance 
before all the transformations of the eternal femi- 



JULES LAFORGUE 113 

nine. He is very conscious of death, but his 
blague of death is, above all things, gentlemanly. 
He will not permit himself, at any moment, the 
luxury of dropping the mask : not at any moment. 
Read this Autre Complainte de Lord Pierrot, with 
the singular pity of its cruelty, before such an 
imagined dropping of the mask : 

Celle qui doit me mettre au courant de la Femmel 

Nous lui dirons d'abord, de mon air le moins froid: 
" La somme des angles d'un triangle, chere ame. 
Est egale a deux droits" 

Et si ce cri lui part: " Dieu de Dieu que je faime!" 
— " Dieu reconnaitra les siens." Ou piquee au vif: 
— " Mes claviers ont du ceeur, tu sera mon seul theme." 
Moi: " Tout est relatif" 

De tous ses yeux, alors! se sent ant trop banale: 

'^Ahf tu ne m'aime pas; tant d'autres sont jaloux!" 
Et moi, d'un aeil qui vers I' Inconscient s'emballe: 
" Merci, pas mal; et vousP" 

"Jouons au plus fidele ! " — A quoi bon, 6 Nature! 

"Autant a. qui perd gagne." Alors, autre couplet: 
— " Ah/ tu te lasseras le premier, fen suis sure." 
— " Apres vous, s'il vous plait P 

Enfin, si, par un soir, elle meurt dans mes livres. 

Douce; feignant de ti'en pas croire encor mes yeux, 
J'aurai un: "Ah fa, mais, nous avions De ^oi vivrel 
C'etait done serieux?" 

H 



114 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

And yet one realises, if one but reads him atten- 
tively enough, how much suffering and despair, and 
resignation to what is, after all, the inevitable, are 
hidden away under this disguise, and also why this 
disguise is possible. Laforgue died at twenty- 
seven : he had been a dying man all his life, and 
his work has the fatal evasiveness of those who 
shrink from remembering the one thing which they 
are unable to forget. Coming as he does after 
Rimbaud, turning the divination of the other into 
theories, into achieved results, he is the eternally 
grown up, mature to the point of self-negation, 
as the other is the eternal enfant terrible. He 
thinks intensely about life, seeing what is automatic, 
pathetically ludicrous in it, almost as one might 
who has no part in the comedy. He has the 
double advantage, for his art, of being condemned 
to death, and of being, in the admirable phrase of 
Villiers, " one of those who come into the world 
with a ray of moonlight in their brains." 



STfiPHANE MALLARME 



STEPHANE MALLARME 



St^PHANE MALLARM^ was one of those who 
love Hterature too much to write it except by frag- 
ments ; in whom the desire of perfection brings its 
own defeat. With either more or less ambition he 
would have done more to achieve himself; he was 
always divided between an absolute aim at the 
absolute, that is, the unattainable, and a too logical 
disdain for the compromise by which, after all, 
literature is literature. Carry the theories of 
Mallarme to a practical conclusion, multiply his 
powers in a direct ratio, and you have Wagner. 
It is his failure not to be Wagner. And, Wagner 
having existed, it was for him to be something more, 
to complete Wagner. Well, not being able to be 
that, it was a matter of sincere indifference to him 
whether he left one or two little, limited master- 



m 



ii8 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

pieces of formal verse and prose, the more or the 
less. It was " the work " that he dreamed of, the 
new art, more than a new religion, whose precise 
form in the world he was never quite able to 
settle. 

Un auteur difficile, in the phrase of M. Catulle 
Mendfes, it has always been to what he himself calls 
" a labyrinth illuminated by flowers " that Mallarm€ 
has felt it due to their own dignity to invite his 
readers. To their own dignity, and also to his. 
Mallarm^ was obscure, not so much because he 
wrote differently, as because he thought differently, 
from other people. His mind was elliptical, and, 
relying with undue confidence on the intelligence of 
his readers, he emphasised the effect of what was 
unlike other people in his mind by resolutely ignor- 
ing even the links of connection that existed 
between them. Never having aimed at popularity, 
he never needed, as most writers need, to make the 
first advances. He made neither intrusion upon 
nor concession to those who, after all, were not 
obliged to read him.j And when he spoke, he con- 
sidered it neither needful nor seemly to listen in 
order to hear whether he was heard. To the 
charge of obscurity he replied, with sufficient 
disdain, that there are many who do not know how 



STEPHANE MALLARME 119 

to read — except the newspaper, he adds, in one 
of those disconcerting, oddly-printed parentheses, 
which make his work, to those who rightly appre- 
hend it, so full of wise limitations, so safe from 
hasty or seemingly final conclusions. No one in 
our time has more significantly vindicated the 
supreme right of the artist in the aristocracy of 
letters ; wilfully, perhaps, not always wisely, but 
nobly, logically. Has not every artist shrunk from 
that making of himself " a motley to the view," 
that handing over of his naked soul to the laughter 
of the multitude ? But who, in our time, has 
wrought so subtle a veil, shining on this side, 
where the few are, a thick cloud on the other, 
where are the many ? The oracles have always had 
the wisdom to hide their secrets in the obscurity of 
many meanings, or of what has seemed meaning- 
less ; and might it not, after all, be the finest epitaph 
for a self-respecting man of letters to be able to say, 
even after the writing of many books : I have kept 
my secret, I have not betrayed myself to the 
multitude ? 

But to Mallarm6, certainly, there might be 
applied the significant warning of Rossetti : 

Yet woe to thee if once thou yield 
Unto the act of doing nought ! 



I20 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

After a life of persistent devotion to literature, he has 
left enough poems to make a single small volume 
(less, certainly, than a hundred poems in all), a 
single volume of prose, a few pamphlets, and a 
prose translation of the poems of Poe. It is because 
among these there are masterpieces, poems which 
are among the most beautiful poems written in our 
time, prose which has all the subtlest qualities of 
prose, that, quitting the abstract point of view, we 
are forced to regret the fatal enchantments, fatal 
for him, of theories which are so greatly needed by 
others, so valuable for our instruction, if we are 
only a little careful in putting them into practice. 

In estimating the significance of Stdphane 
Mallarmf, it is necessary to take into account not 
only his verse and prose, but, almost more than 
these, the T uesdays of the Rue d e Rome, in which 
he gave himself freely to more than one generation. 
No one who has ever climbed those four flights of 
stairs will have forgotten the narrow, homely interior, 
elegant with a sort of scrupulous Dutch comfort ; 
the heavy, carved furniture, the tall clock, the 
portraits, Manet's, Whistler's, on the walls; the 
table on which the china bowl, odorous with 
tobacco, was pushed from hand to hand ; above all, 
the rocking-chair, Mallarme's, from which he would 



STEPHANE MALLARME 121 

rise quietly, to stand leaning his elbow on the 
mantelpiece, while one hand, the hand which did 
not hold the cigarette, would sketch out one of 
those familiar gestures : un peu de pretre, un peu 
de danseuse (in M. Rodenbach's admirable phrase), 
avec ksquels il avait fair chaque fois <f entrer dans la 
conversation, comme on entre en scene. One of the 
best talkers of our time, he was, unlike most other 
fine talkers, harmonious with his own theories in 
giving no monologues, in allowing every liberty to 
his guests,,-te--tl»e — conversation ; in his perfect 
readiness to follow the slightest indication, to 
embroider upon any frame, with any material pre- 
sented to him. There would have been something 
almost of the challenge of the improvisatore in this 
easily moved alertness of mental attitude, had it 
not been for the singular gentleness with which 
Mallarm^'s intelligence moved, in these considerable 
feats, with the half-apologetic negligence of the 
perfect acrobat. He seemed to be no more than 
brushing the dust off your own ideas, settling, 
arranging them a little, before he gave them back 
to you, surprisingly luminous. It was only after- 
wards that you realised how small had been 
your own part in the matter, as well as what it 
meant to have enlightened without dazzling you. 



122 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

But there was always the feeling of comradeship, 
the comradeship of a master, whom, while you 
were there at least, you did not question; and that 
very feeling lifted you, in your own estimation, 
nearer to art. 

Invaluable, it seems to me, those Tuesdays must 
have been to the young men of two generations 
who have been making French literature ; they 
were unique, certainly, in the experience of the 
young Englishman who was always so cordially 
received there, with so flattering a cordiality. Here 
was a house in which art, literature, was the very 
atmosphere, a religious atmosphere ; and the master 
of the house, in his just a little solemn simplicity, 
a priest. I never heard the price of a book men- 
tioned, or the number of thousand francs which a 
popular author had been paid for his last volume ; ' 
here, in this one literary house, literature was 
unknown as a trade. And, above all, the ques- 
tions that were discussed were never, at least, in 
Mallarm€'s treatment, in his guidance of them, 
other than essential questions, considerations of art 
in the abstract, of literature before it coagulates 
into a book, of life as its amusing and various web 
spins the stuff of art. When, indeed, the conver- 
sation, by some untimely hazard, drifted too near 



STEPHANE MALLARME 123 

to one, became for a moment, perhaps incon- 
veniently, practical, it was Mallarm^'s solicitous 
politeness to wait, a little constrained, almost 
uneasy, rolling his cigarette in silence, until the 
disturbing moment had passed. 

There were other disturbing moments, some- 
times. I remember one night, rather late, the 
sudden irruption of M. de Heredia, coming on after 
a dinner-party, and seating himself, in his well-filled 
evening dress, precisely in Mallarm6's favourite 
chair. He was intensely amusing, voluble, floridly 
vehement; Mallarme, I am sure, was delighted to 
see him ; but the loud voice was a little trying to 
his nerves, and then he did not know what to do 
without his chair. He was like a cat that has 
been turned out of its favourite corner, as he 
roamed uneasily about the room, resting an unac- 
cjistomed elbow on the sideboard, visibly at a dis- 
advantage. 

For the attitude of those young men, some of 
them rio longer exactly young, who frequented the 
Tuesdays, was certainly the attitude of the disciple. 
Mallarm^ never exacted it, he seemed never to 
notice it ; yet it meant to him, all the same, a good 
deal ; as it meant, and in the best sense, a good 
deal to them. He loved art with a supreme disin- 



124 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

terestedness, and it was for the sake of art that he 
wished to be really a master. For he knew that he 
had something to teach, that he had found out 
some secrets worth knowing, that he had discovered 
a point of view which he could to some degree 
perpetuate in those young men who listened to 
him. And to them this free kind of apprenticeship 
was, beyond all that it gave in direct counsels, in 
the pattern of work, a noble influence. Mallarm^'s 
quiet, laborious life was for some of them the only 
counterpoise to the Bohemian example of the 
d'Harcourt or the Taveme, where art is loved, 
but with something of haste, in a very changing 
devotion. It was impossible to come away from 
Mallarm^'s without some tranquillising influence 
from that quiet place, some impersonal ambition 
towards excellence, the resolve, at least, to write a 
sonnet, a page of prose, that should be in its own 
way as perfect as one could make it, worthy of 
Mallarmd. 



STEPHANE MALLARME 125 

II 
" Poetry," said Mallarm^, "is the language of a 



s tate of crisis " ; and all his poems are the evoca- 
tion of a passing ecstasy, arrested in mid-flight. 
This ecstasy is never the mere instinctive cry of 
the heart, the simple human joy or sorrow, which, 
like the Parnassians, but for not quite the same 
reason, he did not admit in poetry. It is a mental 
transposition of emotion or sensation, veiled with 
atmosphere, and becoming, as it becomes a poem, ; 
pure beauty.) Here, for instance, in a poem which i 
I have translated line for line, and almost word for 
word, a delicate emotion, a figure vaguely divined, 
a landscape magically evoked, blend in a single 
effect. 

SIGH. 
My soul, calm sister, towards thy brow, whereon scarce 

grieves 
An autumn strewn already with its russet leaves. 
And towards the wandering sky of thine angelic eyes. 
Mounts, as in melancholy gardens may arise 
Some faithful fountain sighing whitely towards the 

blue I 
— Towards the blue pale and pure that sad October 

knew. 



126 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

When, in those depths, it mirrored languors infinite, 
And agonising leaves upon the waters white, 
Windily drifting, traced a furrow cold and dun. 
Where, in one long last ray, lingered the yellow sun. 

Another poem comes a little closer to nature, but 
with what exquisite precautions, and with what 
surprising novelty in its unhesitating touch on 
actual things ! 

SEA-WIND. 

The flesh is sad, alas ! and all the hooks are read. 
Flight, only flight ! J feel that birds are wild to tread 
The floor of unknown foam, and to attain the skies 1 
Nought, neither ancient gardens mirrored in the eyes. 
Shall hold this heart that bathes in waters its delight, 

nights ! nor yet my waking lamp, whose lonely light 
Shadows the vacant paper, whiteness proflts best. 

Nor the young wife who rocks her baby on her breast. 

1 will depart. O steamer, swaying rope and spar. 
Lift anchor for exotic lands that lie afar! 

A weariness, outworn by cruel hopes, still clings 
To the last farewell handkerchiefs last beckonings I 
And are not these, the masts inviting storms, not these 
That an awakening wind bends over wrecking seas. 
Lost, not a sail, a sail, a flowering isle, ere long? 
But, O my heart, hear thou, hear thou the sailor^ 
song! 

These (need I say?) belong to the earlier period, 
in which Mallarm^ had not yet withdrawn his light 



STEPHANE MALLARME 127 

into the cloud ; and to the same period belong the 
prose-poems, one of which, perhaps the most 
exquisite, I will translate here. 

"AUTUMN LAMENT 

"Ever since Maria left me, for another star — 
which ? Orion, Altair, or thou, green Venus ? — I 
have always cherished solitude. How many long 
days I have passed, alone with my cat ! By alone, 
I mean without a material being, and my cat is a 
mystical companion, a spirit. I may say, then, 
that I have passed long days alone with my cat, 
and alone, with one of the last writers of the 
Roman decadence ; for since the white creature is 
no more, strangely and singularly, I have loved all 
that may be summed up in the word : fall. Thus, 
in the year, my favourite season is during those 
last languid summer days which come just before 
the autumn ; and, in the day, the hour when I 
take my walk is the hour when the sun lingers 
before fading, with rays of copper-yellow on the 
grey walls, and of copper-red on the window-panes. 
And, just so, the literature from which my soul 
demands delight must be the poetry dying out of 
the last moments of Rome, provided, nevertheless, 
that it breathes nothing of the rejuvenating approach 



128 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

of the Barbarians, and does not stammer the infantile 
Latin of the first Christian prose. 

" I read, then, one of those beloved poems 
(whose streaks of rouge have more charm for me 
than the fresh cheek of youth), and buried my 
hand in the fur of the pure animal, when a barrel- 
organ began to sing, languishingly and melancholy, 
under my window. It played in the long alley of 
poplars, whose leaves seem mournful to me even in 
spring, since Maria passed that way with the tapers, 
for the last time. Yes, sad people's instrument, 
truly : the piano glitters, the violin brings one's 
torn fibres to the light, but the barrel-organ, in the 
twilight of memory, has set me despairingly dream- 
ing. While it murmured a gaily vulgar air, such 
as puts mirth into the heart of the suburbs, an old- 
fashioned, an empty air, how came it that its refrain 
went to my very soul, and made me weep like a 
romantic ballad ? I drank it in, and I did not 
throw a penny out of the window, for fear of 
disturbing my own impression, and of perceiving 
that the instrument was not singing by itself." 

Between these characteristic, clear, and beautiful 
poems, in verse and in prose, and the opaque 
darkness of the later writings, come one or two 
poems, perhaps the finest of all, in which already 



STEPHANE MALLARME 129 

clearness is "a secondary grace," but in which 
a subtle rapture finds incomparable expression. 
L Aprks-midi cPun Faune and Herodiade have 
already been introduced, in different ways, to 
English readers : the former by Mr. Gosse, in a 
detailed analysis ; the second I have translated in 
the last number of the Savoy. In these two poems 
I find Mallarme at the moment when his own desirfl' 
achieves itself; when he attains Wagner's ideal, 
that " the most complete work of the_ poet shguld_^ 
be that which, in its final achievement, becomes a^ 
jerfect ._music "j. every word is a jewel, scattering 
and recapturing sudden fire, every image is a 
symbol, and the whole poem is visible music. 
After this point began that fatal " last period " 
which comes to most artists who have thought too 
curiously, or dreamed too remote dreams, or fol- 
lowed a too wandering beauty. Mallarm6 had 
long been only too conscious that all publication is 
"almost a speculation, on one's modesty, for oiae's 
silence " ; that " to unclench the fists, breaking 
one's sedentary dream, for a ruffling face to face 
with the idea," was after all unnecessary to his 
own conception of himself, a mere way of convincing 
the public that one exists ; and having achieved, as 
he thought, " the right to abstain from doing any- 



I30 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

thing exceptional," he devoted himself, doubly, to 
silence. Seldom condescending to write, he wrote 
now only for himself, and in a manner which 
certainly saved him from intrusion. Some of Mr. 
Meredith's poems, and occasional passages of his 
prose, can alone give in English some faint idea of 
the later prose and verse of Mallarm6. The verse 
could not, I think, be translated ; of the prose, in 
which an extreme lucidity of thought comes to us 
but glimmeringly through the entanglements of a 
construction, part Latin, part English, I shall en- 
deavour to translate some fragments, in speaking 
of the theoretic writings, contained in the two 
volumes of Vers et Prose and Divagations. 



Ill 

It is the distinction of Mallarm6 to have aspired 
after an impossible liberation of the soul of literature 
from what is fretting and constraining in " the body 
of that death," which is the mere literature of 
words. Words, he has realised, are of value only 
as a notation of the free breath of the spirit ; words, 
therefore, must be employed with an extreme care. 



STEPHANE MALLARME 131 

in their choice and adjustment, in setting them to 
reflect and chime upon one another ; yet least of 
all for their own sake, for what they can never, 
except by suggestion, express. " Every soul is a 
melody," he has said, "which needs to be re- 
adjusted ; and for that are the\flute or viol of each." 
The word, treated indeed with a kind of " adora- 
tion," as he says, is so regarded in a magnificent 
sense, in which it is apprehended as a living thing, 
itself the vision rather thanjhe reality; at least the 
philtre of the evocation. ' The word, chosen as he 
chooses it, is for him a liberating principle, by 
which the s pirit is extracted from matter ; takes 
form, perhaps assumes immortality. Thus an 
artificiality, even, in the use of words, that seeming 
artificiality which comes from using words as if 
they had never been used before, that chimerical 
search after the virginity of language, is but the 
paradoxical outward sign of an extreme discontent 
with even the best of their service. Writers who 
use" words fluently, seeming to disregard their 
importance, do so from an unconscious confidence 
in their expressiveness, which the scrupulous 
thinker, the precise dreamer, can never ^^c^ in the 
most carefully chosen among them. . To evoke, by 
some elaborate, instantaneous magic of language. 



132 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

without the formality of an after all impossible 
description ; to be, rather than to express : that is 
what Mallarm6 has consistently, and from the first, 
sought in verse and prose. And he has sought 
this wandering, illusive, beckoning butterfly, the 
soul of dreams, over more and more entangled 
ground ; and it has led him into the depths of 
many forests, far from the sunlight. To say that 
he has found what he sought is impossible ; but (is 
it possible to avoid saying ?) how heroic a search, 
and what marvellous discoveries by the way ! 

I think I understand, though I cannot claim his 
own authority for my supposition, the way in which 
Mallarm^ wrote verse, and the reason why it 
became more and more abstruse, more and more 
lunintelligible. Remember his principle : that to 
fnaTne~is'T6'^3estrojr,, to suggest is to cre ate?^ Note, 
I further, that he condemns the inclusion in verse of 
anything but, " for example, the horror of the 
forest, or the silent thunder afloat in the leaves ; 
not the intrinsic, dense wood of the trees." He 
has received, then, a mental sensation : let it be 
the horror of the forest. This sensation begins to 
form in his brain, at first probably no more than 
a rhythm, absolutd^without words. Gradually 
thought begins to concentrate itself (but with an 



STEPHANE MALLARME 133 

extreme care, lest it should break the tension on 
which all depends) upon the sensation, already 
struggling to iind its own consciousness. Delicately, 
stealthily, with infinitely timid precaution, words 
present themselves, at first in silence. Every word 
seems like a desecration, seems, the clearer it is, 
to throw back the original sensation farther and 
farther into the darkness. But, guided always by 
the rhythm, which is the executive soul (as, in 
Aristotle's definition, the soul is the form of the 
body), words come slowly, one by one, shaping the 
message. Imagine the poem already written down, 
at least composed. In its very imperfection, it is 
clear, it shows the links by which it has been 
riveted together ; the whole process of its construc- 
tion can be studied. Now most writers would be 
content ; but with Mallarme the work has only 
begun. In the final result there must be no sign of 
the making, there must he_Qnly_the^Jt_hing made. 
He works over it, word by word, changing a word 
here, for its colour, which is not precisely the 
colour required, a word there, for the break it 
makes in the music. A new image occurs to him, 
rarer, subtler, than the one he has used ; the image 
is transferred. By the time the poem has reachedi 
as it seems to him, a flawless unity, the steps of 



// 



134 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

the progress have been only too effectually effaced ; 
and while the poet, who has seen the thing from 
the beginning, still sees the relation of point to 
point, the reader, who comes to it only in its final 
stage, finds himself in a not unnatural bewilder- 
ment. Pursue this manner of writing to its ultimate 
development ; start with an enigma, and then with- 
draw the key of the enigma ; and you arrive, easily, 
at the frozen impenetrability of those latest sonnets, 
in which the absence of all punctuation is scarcely 
a recognisable hindrance. 

That, I fancy to myself, was his actual way of 
writing ; here, in what I prefer to give as a corol- 
lary, is the theory. " Symbolist, Decadent, or 
Mystic, the schools thus called by themselves, or 
thus hastily labelled by our information-press, 
adopt, for meeting-place, the point of an Idealism 
which (similarly as in fugues, in sonatas) rejects 
the ' natural ' materials, and, as brutal, a direct 
thought ordering them ; to retain no more than 
• suggestion. To be instituted, a relation between 
images, exact ; and that therefrom should detach 
itself a third aspect, fusible and clear, offered to the 
divination. Abolished, the pretension, aesthetically 
an error, despite its dominion over almost all the 
masterpieces, to enclose within the subtle paper 



STEPHANE MALLARME 135 

other than, for example, the horror of the forest, or 
the silent thunder afloat in the leaves; not the 
intrinsic, dense wood of the trees. Some few 
bursts of personal pride, veridically trumpeted, 
awaken the architecture of the palace, alone habit- 
able ; not of stone, on which the pages would close 
but ill." For example (it is his own) : " I say : a 
flower ! and out of the oblivion to which my voice 
consigns every contour, so far as anything save the 
known calyx, musically arises, idea, and exquisite, 
the one flower absent from all bouquets." " The 
pure work," then, " implies the elocutionary disap- 
pearance of the poet, who yields place to the words, 
immobilised by the shock of their inequality ; they 
take light from mutual reflection, like an actual trail 
of fire over precious stones, replacing the old lyric 
afflatus or the enthusiastic personal direction of the 
phrase." " The verse which out of many vocables 
remakes an entire word, new, unknown to the 
language, and as if magical, attains this isolation of 
speech." Whence, it being " music which rejoins 
verse, to form, since Wagner, Poetry," the final 
conclusion : " TEaTwe are now precisely at the 
moment of seeking, before that breaking up of the 
large rhythms of literature, and their scattering in 
articulate, almost instrumental, nervous waves, an 



136 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

art which shall complete the transposition, into the 
Book, of the symphony, or simply recapture our 
own : for, it is not in elementary sonorities of 
brass, strings, wood, unquestionably, but in the 
intellectual word at its utmost, that, fully and 
evidently, we should find, drawing to itself all the 
correspondences of the universe, the supreme 
Music." 

Here, literally translated, in exactly the arrange- 
ment of the original, are some passages out of the 
theoretic writings, which I have brought together, 
to indicate what seem to me the main lines of 
Mallarm6's doctrine. It is the doctrine which, as I 
have already said, had been divined by Gerard de 
Nerval ; but what, in Gerard, was pure vision, 
becomes in Mallarmd a logical sequence of medita- 
tion. Mallarmd was not a mystic, to whom any- 
thing came unconsciously ; he was a thinker, in 
whom an extraordinary subtlety of mind was exer- 
cised on always explicit, though by no means the 
common, problems. " A seeker after something in 
the world, that is Jthere in_ no satisfying measure, 
or not at all," he pursued his search with unweary- 
ing persistence, with a sharp mental division of 
dream and idea, certainly very lucid to himself, 
however he may have failed to render his expression 



STEPHANE MALLARME 137 

clear to others. And I, for one, cannot doubt that 
he was, for the most part, entirely right in his 
statement and analysis of the new conditions under 
which we are now privileged or condemned to write. 
His obscurity was partly his failure to carry out 
the spirit of hisjown directions ; but, apart from 
obscurity, which we may all be fortunate enough to 
escape, is it possible for a writer, at the present 
day, to be quite simple, with the old, objective sim- 
plicity, in either thought or expression ? To be 
naif, to be archaic, is not to be either natural or 
simple ; I affirm that is not natural to be what 
is called " natural " any longer. We have no longer 
the mental attitude of those to whom a story was 
but a story, and all stories good ; we have realised, 
since it was proved to us by Poe, not merely that 
the age of epics is past, but that no long poem was 
ever written ; the finest long poem in the world 
being but a series of short poems linked together 
by prose. And, naturally, we can no longer write 
what we can no longer accept. Symbolism, implicit 
in all literature from the beginning, as it is implicit 
in the very words we use, comes to us now, at last 
quite conscious of itself, offering us the only escape 
from our many imprisonments. We find a new, an 
older, sense in the so worn out forms of things ; 



138 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

\ the world, which we can no longer believe in as the 
satisfying material object it was to our grandparents, 
becomes transfigured with a new light ; words, 
which long usage had darkened almost out of recog- 
nition, take fresh lustre. And it is on the lines of 
that spiritualising of the word, that perfecting 
of form in its capacity for allusion and suggestion, 
that confidence in the eternal correspondences 
between the visible and the invisible universe, which 
Mallarm6 taught, and too intermittently practised, 
that literature must now move, if it is in any sense 
to move forward. 



HUYSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST 



HUYSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST 

In the preface to his first novel, Marthe: histoire 
d'une fille, more than twenty years ago, Huysmans 
defined his theory of art in this defiant phrase : " I 
write what I see, what I feel, and what I have 
experienced, and I write it as well as I can : that 
is all." Only five or six years ago, he could still 
say, in answer to an interviewer who asked him his 
opinion of Naturalism : "At bottom, there are 
writers who have talent and others who have not ; 
let them be Naturalists, Romantics, Decadents, 
what you will, it is all the same to me : I only 
want to know if they have talent." Such theo- 
retical liberality, in a writer of original talent, is a 
little disconcerting : it means that he is without a 
theory of his own, that he is not yet conscibus of 
having chosen his own way. And, indeed, it is only 
with En Route that Huysmans can be said to have 
discovered the direction in which he had really been 
travelling from the beginning. In La-Bas, which 



142 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

is a sort of false start, he had, indeed, realised, 
though for himself, at that time, ineffectually, that 
"it is essential to preserve the veracity of the 
document, the precision of detail, the fibrous and 
nervous language of Realism, but it is equally 
essential to become the well-digger of the soul, and 
not to attempt to explain what is mysterious by 
mental maladies. ... It is essential, in a word, to 
follow the great road so deeply dug out by Zola, 
but it is necessary also to trace a parallel pathway 
in the air, and to grapple with the within and the 
after, to create, in a word, a spiritual Naturalism." 
This is almost a definition of the art of En Route, 
where this spiritual realism is applied to the history 
of a soul, a conscience ; in a later novel. La Cathi- 
drale, the method has still further developed, and 
Huysmans becomes, for the first time, a pure 
Symbolist. La CatMdrale is still concerned with 
the same sensitive, lethargic, persevering soul, but 
it is concerned with it in one of its longest halts 
by the way, as it undergoes the slow, permeating 
influence of la cathedrale mystique par excellence, the 
cathedral of Chartres. And the greater part of the 
book is taken up with a study of this cathedral, of 
that elaborate and profound symbolism by which 
" the soul of sanctuaries " slowly reveals itself {(fuel 



HUYSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST 143 

laconisme hermetique /) with a sort of parallel inter- 
pretation of the symbolism which the Church of 
the Middle Ages concealed or revealed in colours, 
precious stones, plants, animals, numbers, odours, 
and in the Bible itself, in the setting together of the 
Old and New Testaments. Then there is a study 
of religious art, of Fra Angelico's Coronation of the 
Virgin in the Louvre, which is a patient disen- 
tangling of the actual signification of its colours, of 
Roger van de Weyden and the early Flemish 
painters, with a superb page on Rembrandt and 
his hallucinatory realism. Some of the finest pages 
in the book are those on David and the Hebrew 
Prophets, on King Solomon, on the prefiguration of 
Christ, the Virgin, and the Church, in the narratives 
and poems of the Old Testament. No doubt, to 
some extent, this book is less interesting than En 
Route, in the exact proportion in which everything 
in the world is less interesting than the human 
soul. There are times when Durtal is almost 
forgotten, and, unjustly enough, it may seem as if 
we are given this archaeology, these Bestiaries, for 
their own sake. To fall into this error is to mis- 
take the whole purpose of the book, the whole 
extent of the discovery in art which Huysmans has 
be€n one of the first to make. 



144 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

The old conception of the novel as an amusing 
tale of adventures, though it has still its apologists 
in England, has long since ceased in France to 
mean anything more actual than powdered wigs 
and lace ruffles. Like children who cry to their 
elders for "a story, a story," the English public 
still wants its plot, its heroine, its villain. That 
the novel should be psychological was a discovery 
as early as Benjamin Constant, whose Adolphe 
anticipates Le Rouge et le Noir, that somewhat arid 
masterpiece of Stendhal. But that psychology 
could be carried so far into the darkness of the 
soul, that the flaming walls of the world themselves 
faded to a glimmer, was a discovery which had 
been made by no novelist before Huysmans wrote 
En Route. At once the novel showed itself capable 
of competing, on their own ground, with poetry, 
with the great " confessions," with philosophy. 
En Route is perhaps the first novel which does not 
set out with the aim of amusing its readers. It 
offers you no more entertainment than Paradise Lost 
or the Confessions of St. Augustine, and it is pos- 
sible to consider it on the same level. The novel, 
which, after having chronicled the adventures of 
the Vanity Fairs of this world, had set itself with 
admirable success to analyse the amorous and 



HUYSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST 145 

ambitious and money-making intelligence of the 
conscious and practical self, sets itself at last to the 
final achievement : the revelation of the sub-con- 
scious self, no longer the intelligence, but the soul. 
Here, then, purged of the distraction of incident, 
liberated from the bondage of a too realistic con- 
versation, in which the aim had been to convey the 
very gesture of breathing life, internalised to a com- 
plete liberty, in which, just because it is so abso- 
lutely free, art is able to accept, without limiting 
itself, the expressive medium of a convention, we 
have in the novel a new form, which may be at 
once a confession and a decoration, the soul and a 
pattern. 

And so, in La Cathedrale, Huysmans does but 
carry further the principle which he had perceived 
in En Route, showing, as he does, how inert matter, 
the art of stones, the growth of plants, the uncon- 
scious life of beasts, may be brought under the J 
same law of the soul, may obtain, through symbol, \ 
a spiritual existence. He is thus but extending 
the domain of the soul, while he may seem to be 
limiting or ignoring it ; and Durtal may well stand 
aside for a moment, in at least the energy of con- 
templation, while he sees, with a new under- 
standing, the very sight of his eyes, the very stuff 



146 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

of his thoughts, taking life before him, a life of the 
same substance as his own. What is Symbolism 
if not an establishing of the links which hold the 
world together, the affirmation of an eternal, minute, 
intricate, almost invisible life, which runs through 
the whole universe? Every age has its own 
symbols, but, a symbol once perfectly expressed, 
that symbol remains; as Gothic architecture remains, 
the very soul of the Middle Ages. To get at that 
truth which is all but the deepest meaning of 
beauty, to find that symbol which is its most 
adequate expression, is in itself a kind of creation ; 
and that is what Huysmans does for us in La 
Cathe'drak. More and more he has put aside all 
the profane and accessible and outward pomp of 
writing, for an inner and more severe beauty of 
perfect truth. He has come to realise that truth 
can be reached and revealed only by symbol. 
Hence, all that description, that heaping up of 
detail, that passionately patient elaboration : all 
means to an end, not, as you may hastily incline to 
think, ends in themselves. 

It is curious to observe how oflen an artist 
perfects a particular means of expression long 
before he has any notion of what to do with it. 
Huysmans began by acquiring so astonishing a 



HUYSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST 147 

mastery of description that he could describe the 
inside of a cow hanging in a butcher's shop as 
beautifully as if it were a casket of jewels. The 
little work-girls of his early Hovels were taken for 
long walks, in which they would have seen nothing 
but the arm on which they leant and the milliners' 
shops which they passed ; and what they did not 
see was described, marvellously, in twenty pages. 
Now all that acquired power suddenly finds its use ; 
for the idea has been found, and the idea, which 
alone can give value and coherence to all these 
observations, is like the sun which flashes into 
unity, into meaning, into evident beauty, the unin- 
telligible lozenges of colour,, the inextricable trails 
of lead, which go to make up the picture in one of 
the painted windows of his own cathedral. Per- 
haps no one has ever dtescribed with such minute- 
ness of line and colour as Huysmans, and his very 
defect, a certain lack of restraint, a certain heavi- 
ness of rhythm, which prevents his sentences from 
ever pleasing the ear like the sentences of Gautier, 
of Baudelaire, of Flaubert, gives him an advantage 
in conveying to the eye what he has seen with the 
eye. What, for instance, could be more precise in 
its translation of the different aspects under which 
the cathedral of Chartres can be seen, merely as 



148 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

colour, than this one sentence : " Seen as a whole, 
under a clear sky, its grey silvers, and, if the sun 
shines upon it, turns pale yellow and then golden; 
seen close, its skin is like that of a nibbled biscuit, 
with its silicious limestone eaten into holes ; some- 
times, when the sun is setting, it turns crimson, 
and rises up like a monstrous and delicate shrine, 
rose and green ; and, at twilight, turns blue, then 
seems to evaporate as it fades into violet." Or, 
again, in a passage which comes nearer to the con- 
ventional idea of eloquence, how absolute an avoid- 
ance of a conventional phrase, a word used for its 
merely oratorical value : " High up, in space, like 
salamanders, human beings, with burning faces and 
flaming robes, lived in a firmament of fire; but 
these conflagrations were circumscribed, limited by 
an incombustible frame of darker glass, which beat 
back the clear young joy of the flames ; by that 
kind of melancholy, that more serious and more 
aged aspect, which is taken by the duller colours. 
The hue and cry of reds, the limpid security of 
whites, the reiterated halleluias of yellows, the vir- 
ginal glory of blues, all the quivering hearth-glow 
of painted glass, died away as it came near this 
border coloured with the rust of iron, with the 
russet of sauce, with the harsh violet of sandstone. 



HUYSMANS AS A SYMBOLIST 149 

with bottle-green, with the brown of touchwood, 
with sooty black, with ashen grey." 

This, in its excess of exactitude (a truly mediaeval 
quality) becomes, on one page, a comparison of the 
tower without a spire to an unsharpened pencil 
which cannot write the prayers of earth upon the 
sky. But, for the most part, it is a consistent 
humanising of too objectively visible things, a 
disengaging of the sentiment which exists in them, 
which is one of the secrets of their appeal to us, 
but which for the most part we overlook as we set 
ourselves to add up the shapes and colours that 
have enchanted us.j To Huysmans this artistic 
discovery has come, perhaps in the most effectual 
way, but certainly in the way least probable in 
these days, through .faith,' a definite religious faith ; 
so that, beginning tentatively, he has come, at 
last, to believe in the Catholic Church as a monk 
of the Middle Ages behaved in it. And there is no 
doubt that to Huysmans this abandonment to 
religion has brought, among other gifts, a certain 
human charity in which he was notably lacking, 
removing at once one of his artistic limitations. 
It has softened his contempt of humanity, it has 
broadened his outlook on the world. And the 
sense, diffused through the whole of this book, of 



150 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

the living and beneficent reality of the Virgin, of 
her real presence in the cathedral built in her 
honour and after her own image, brings a strange 
and touching kind of poetry into these closely and 
soberly woven pages. We know that the finest 
imaginative work can be built only out of the 
primary emotions. Here, then, is a novelist who 
has obtained complete mastery over one of the 
primary emotions, precisely because it has obtained 
complete mastery over his own soul : the emotion 
of faith. 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 

1 HE secret of things which is just beyond the 
most subtle words, the secret of the expressive 
silences, has always been clearer to Maeterlinck 
than to most people; and, in his plays, he has 
elaborated an art of sensitive, taciturn, and at the 
same time highly ornamental simplicity, which has 
come nearer than any other art to being the voice I 
of silence. To Maeterlinck the theatre has been, 
for the most part, no more than one of the dis- 
guises by which he can express himself, and with 
his book of meditations on the inner life, Le Tr^sor 
des Humbles, he may seem^^ to have dropped his 
digguise. 

All art hates the vague ; not the mysterious, but 
the vague ; two opposites very commonly confused, 
as the secret with the obscure, the infinite with the 
indefinite. And the artist who is also a mystic 
hates the vague with a more profound hatred than 



154 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

any other artist. Thus Maeterlinck, endeavouring 
to clothe mystical conceptions in concrete form, has 
invented a drama so precise, so curt, so arbitrary 
in its limits, that it can safely be confided to the 
masks and feigned voices of marionettes. His 
theatre of artificial beings, who are at once more 
ghostly and more mechanical than the living actors 
whom we are accustomed to see, in so curious a 
parody of life, moving with a certain freedom of 
action across the stage, may be taken as itself a 
symbol of the aspect under which what we fantas- 
tically term " real life " presents itself to the mystic. 
i Are we not all puppets, in a theatre of marionettes, 
in which the parts we play, the dresses we wear, 
the very emotion whose dominance gives its express 
form to our faces, have all been chosen for us ; in 
which I, it may be, with curled hair and a Spanish 
cloak, play the romantic lover, sorely against my 
will, while you, a " fair penitent " for no repented 
sin, pass whitely under a nun's habit ? And as 
our parts have been chosen for us, our motions 
controlled from behind the curtain, so the words 
we seem to speak are but spoken through us, and 
we do but utter fragments of some elaborate inven- 
tion, planned for larger ends than our personal 
display or convenience, but to which, all the same, 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 155 

we are in a humble degree necessary. This sym- ^ 
bolical theatre, its very existence being a symbol, 
has perplexed many minds, to some of whom it has 
seemed puerile, a child's mystification of small 
words and repetitions, a thing of attitudes and 
omissions; while others, yet more unwisely, have 
compared it with the violent, rhetorical, most human 
drama of the Elizabethans, with Shakespeare him- 
self, to whom all the world was a stage, and the 
stage all this world, certainly. A sentence, already 
famous, of the Tresor des Humbles, will tell you 
what it signifies to Maeterlinck himself. 

" I have come to believe," he writes, in Le Tragique 1 
Quotidien, " that an old man seated in his armchair, 
waiting quietly under the lamplight, listening with- 
out knowing it to all the eternal laws which reign 
about his house, interpreting without understanding 
it all that there is in the silence of doors and 
windows, and in the little voice of light, enduring 
the presence of his soul and of his destiny, bowing 
his head a little, without suspecting that all the 
powers of the earth intervene and stand on guard 
in the room like attentive servants, not knowing 
that the sun itself suspends above the abyss the 
little table on which he rests his elbow, and that 
there is not a star in the sky nor a force in the 



156 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

soul which is indifferent to the motion of a falling 
eyelid or a rising thought — I have come to believe 
that this motionless old man Uved really a more 
profound, human, and universal life than the lover 
who strangles his mistress, the captain who gains a 
victory, or the husband who ' avenges his honour.' " 

That, it seems to me, says all there is to be said 
of the intention of this drama which Maeterlinck 
has evoked ; and, of its style, this other sentence, 
which I take from the same essay : ". It is only the 
words that at first sight seem useless which really 
count in a work." 

This drama, then, is a drama founded on philo- 
sophical ideas, apprehended emotionally ; on the 
sense of the mystery of the universe, of the weak- 
ness of humanity, that sense which Pascal ex- 
pressed when he said : Ce qui m'e'tonne le plus est 
de voir que tout le monde n'est pas etonne de sa 
faiblesse; with an acute feeling of the pathetic 
ignorance in which the souls nearest to one another 
look out upon their neighbours. It is a drama in 
which the interest is concentrated on vague people, 
who are little parts of the universal consciousness, 
their strange names being but the pseudonyms of 
obscure passions, intimate emotions. They have 
the fascination which we find in the eyes of certain 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 157 

pictures, so much more real and disquieting, so 
much more permanent with us, than living people. 
And they have the touching simplicity of children ; 
they are always children in their ignorance of them- 
selves, of one another, and of fate. And, because 
they are so disembodied of the more trivial accidents 
of life, they give themselves without limitation to 
whatever passionate instinct possesses them. I do 
not know a more passionate love-scene than that 
scene in the wood beside the fountain, where 
Pelldas and M^lisande confess the strange burden 
which has come upon them. When the soul gives 
itself absolutely to love, all the barriers of the 
world are burnt away, and all its wisdom and sub- 
tlety are as incense poured on a flame. Morality, 
too, is burnt away, no longer exists, any more 
than it does for children or for God. 

Maeterlinck has realised, better than any one else, 
the significance, in life and art, of mystery. He 
has realised how unsearchable is the darkness out 
of which we have but just stepped, and the dark- 
ness into which we are about to pass. And he has 
realised how the thought and sense of that twofold 
darkness invade the little space of light in which, 
for a moment, we move ; the depth to which they, 
shadow our steps, even in that moment's partial 



158 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

escape. But in some of his plays he would seem 
to have apprehended this mystery as a thing 
merely or mainly terrifying ; the actual physical 
darkness surrounding blind men, the actual physical 
approach of death as the intruder ; he has shown 
us people huddled at a window, out of which they 
are almost afraid to look, or beating at a door, 
the opening of which they dread. Fear shivers 
through these plays, creeping across our nerves like 
a damp mist coiling up out of a valley. And there 
is beauty, certainly, in this " vague spiritual fear " ; 
but certainly a lower kind of beauty than that 
which gives its profound pathos to Aglavaine el 
' Se'lyseife, the one play written since the writing of 
the essays. Here is mystery, which is also pure 
beauty, in these deUcate approaches of intellectual 
pathos, in which suffering and death and error 
become transformed into something almost happy, 
so full is it of strange light. 

And the aim of Maeterlinck, in his plays, is not 
only to render the soul and the soul's atmosphere, 
but to reveal this strangeness, pity, and beauty 
through beautiful pictures. No dramatist has ever 
been so careful that his scenes should be in them- 
selves beautiful, or has made the actual space of 
forest, tower, or seashore so emotionally significant. 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 159 

He has realised, after Wagner, that the art of the 
stage is the art of pictorial beauty, of the cor- 
respondence in rhythm between the speakers, their 
words, and their surroundings. He has seen how, 
in this way, and in this way alone, the emotion, 
which it is but a part of the poetic drama to 
express, can be at once intensified and purified. 

It is only after hinting at many of the things 
which he had to say in these plays, which have, 
after all, been a kind of subterfuge, that Maeterlinck 
has cared, or been able, to speak with the direct 
utterance of the essays. And what may seem 
curious is that this prose of the essays, which is 
the prose of a doctrine, is incomparably more beau- ] 
tiful than the prose of the plays, which was the ' 
prose of an art. Holding on this point a different 
opinion from one who was, in many senses, his 
master, Villiers de I'lsle-Adam, he did not admit 
that beauty of words, or even any expressed beauty 
of thoughts, had its place in spoken dialogue, even 
though it was not two living actors speaking to one 
another on the stage, but a soul speaking to a soul, 
and imagined speaking through the mouths of 
marionettes. But that beauty of . phrase which 
makes the profound and sometimes obscure pages 
of Axel shine as with the crossing fire of jewels, 



i6o THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

rejoices us, though with a softer, a more equable, 
radiance, in the pages of these essays, in which 
every sentence has the indwelling beauty of an 
intellectual emotion, preserved at the same height 
of tranquil ecstasy from first page to last. There 
is a sort of rehgious calm in these deliberate sen- 
tences, into which the writer has known how to 
introduce that divine monotony which is one of the 
accomplishments of great style. Never has sim- 
plicity been more ornate, or a fine beauty more 
visible through its self-concealment. 

But, after all, the claim upon us of this book is not 
the claim of a work of art, but of a doctrine, and 
more than that, of a system. Belonging, as he does, 
to the eternal hierarchy, the unbroken succession, 
of the mystics, Maeterlinck has apprehended what 
is essential in the mystical doctrine with a more 
profound comprehension, and thus more systemati- 
cally, than any mystic of recent times. He has 
many points of resemblance with Emerson, on whom 
he has written an essay which is properly an ex- 
position of his own personal ideas ; but Emerson, 
who proclaimed the supreme guidance of the inner 
light, the supreme necessity of trusting instinct, of 
honouring emotion, did but proclaim all this, not 
without a certain anti-mystical vagueness : Maeter- 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC i6r 

linck has systematised it. A more profound mystic 
than Emerson, he has greater command of that 
which comes to him unawares, is less at the mercy 
of visiting angels^/ 

Also, it may be said that he surrenders himself 
to them more absolutely, with less reserve and 
discretion ; and, as he has infinite leisure, his con- 
templation being subject to no limits of time, he is 
ready to follow them on unknown rounds, to any 
distance, in any direction, ready also to rest in any 
wayside inn, without fearing that he will have lost 
the road on the morrow. 

This old gospel, of which Maeterlinck is the 
new voice, has been quietly waiting imtil certain 
bankruptcies, the bankruptcy of Science, of the 
Positive Philosophies, should allow it full credit. 
Considering the length even of time, it has not had 
an unreasonable space of waiting; and remember 
that it takes time but little into account. We have 
seen many little gospels demanding of every emotion, 
of every instinct, " its certificate at the hand of 
some respectable authority." Without confidence 
in themselves or in things, and led by Science, 
which is as if one were led by one's note-book, they 
demand a reasonable explanation of every mystery. 
Not finding that explanation, they reject the 



1 62 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

mystery; which is as if the fly on the wheel 
rejected the wheel because it was hidden from his 
eyes by the dust of his own raising. 
'■ The mystic is at once the proudest and the 
humblest of men. He is as a child who resigns 
himself to the guidance of an unseen hand, the 
hand of one walking by his side ; he resigns him- 
self with the child's humiUty. And he has the 
pride of the humble, a pride manifesting itself in 
the calm rejection of every accepted map of the 
roads, of every offer of assistance, of every painted 
signpost pointing out the smoothest ways on which 
to travel. He demands no authority for the unseen 
hand whose fingers he feels upon his wrist. He 
conceives of life, not, indeed, so much as a road on 
which one walks, very much at one's own discretion, 
but as a blown and wandering ship, surrounded by 
a sea from which there is no glimpse of land ; and 
he conceives that to the currents of that sea he may 
safely trust himself Let his hand, indeed, be on 
the rudder, there will be no miracle worked for 
him ; it is enough miracle that the sea should be 
there, and the ship, and he himself. He will never 
know why his hand should turn the rudder this way 
rather than that. 

Jacob Boehme has said, very subtly, " that man 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 163 

does not perceive the truth, but God perceives the 
truth in man " ; that is, that whatever we perceive ' 
or do is not perceived or done consciously by us, > 
but unconsciously through us. Our business, then, 
is to tend that "inner light" by which most 
mystics have symbolised that which at once guides 
us in time and attaches us to eternity. This inner 
light is no miraculous descent of the Holy Spirit, 
but the perfectly natural, though it may finally be 
overcoming, ascent of the spirit within us. The 
spirit, in all men, being but a ray of the universal 
light, it can, by careful tending, by the removal of 
all obstruction, the cleansing of the vessel, the 
trimming of the wick, as it were, be increased, 
made to burn with a steadier, a brighter flame. In 
the last rapture it may become dazzling, may blind 
the watcher with excess of light, shutting him in 
within the circle of transfiguration, whose extreme 
radiance will leave all the rest of the world hence- 
forth one darkness. 

All mystics being concerned with what is divine 
in life, with the laws which apply equally to time 
and eternity, it may happen to one to concern 
himself chiefly with time seen under the aspect of 
eternity, to another to concern himself rather with 
eternity seen under the aspect of time. Thus many 



i64 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

mystics have occupied themselves, very profitably, 
with showing how natural, how explicable on their 
own terms, are the mysteries of life ; the whole aim 
of Maeterlinck is to show how mysterious all life 
is, " what an astonishing thing it is, merely to live." 
What he had pointed out to us, with certain solemn 
gestures, in his plays, he sets himself now to 
affirm, slowly, fully, with that " confidence in 
mystery " of which he speaks. Because " there is 
not an hour without its familiar miracles and its 
ineffable suggestions," he sets himself to show us 
these miracles and these meanings where others have 
not always sought or found them, in women, in chil- 
dren, in the theatre. He seems to touch, at one 
moment or another, whether he is discussingLaBeaute' 
Interieure or Le Tragique Quotidien, on all of these 
hours, and there is no hour so dark that his touch does 
not illuminate it. And it is characteristic of him, of 
his "confidence in mystery," that he speaks always 
without raising his voice, without surprise or triumph, 
or the air of having said anything more than the 
simplest observation. He speaks, not as if he 
knew more than others, or had sought out more 
elaborate secrets, but as if he had listened more 
attentively. 

Loving most those writers " whose works 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 165 

are nearest to silence," he begins his book, 
significantly, with an essay on Silence, an essay 
which, like all these essays, has the reserve, the 
expressive reticence, of those " active silences " 
of which he succeeds in revealing a few of the 
secrets. 

"Souls," he tells us, "are weighed in silence, 
as gold and silver are weighed in pure water, 
and the words which we pronounce have no 
meaning except through the silence in which they 
are bathed. We seek to know that we may learn 
not to know " ; knowledge, that which can be 
known by the pure reason, metaphysics, "indis- 
pensable " on this side of the " frontiers," being 
after all precisely what is least essential to us, 
since least essentially ourselves. " We possess 
a self more profound and more boundless than 
the self of the passions or of pure reason. . . . 
There comes a moment when the phenomena 
of our customary consciousness, what we may 
call the consciousness of the passions or of our 
normal relationships, no longer mean anything 
to us, no longer touch our real life. I admit 
that this consciousness is often interesting in its 
way, and that it is often necessary to know it 
thoroughly. But it is a surface plant, and its roots 



i66 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

fear the great central fire of our being. I may 
commit a crime without the least breath stirring 
the tiniest flame of this fire ; and, on the other 
hand, the crossing of a single glance, a thought 
which never comes into being, a minute which 
passes without the utterance of a word, may rouse 
it into terrible agitations in the depths of its retreat, 
and cause it to overflow upon my life. Our soul 
does not judge as we judge ; it is a capricious 
and hidden thing. It can be reached by a breath 
and unconscious of a tempest. Let us find out 
what reaches it ; everything is there, for it is 
there that we ourselves are." 

And it is towards this point that all the words 
of this book tend. Maeterlinck, unlike most men 
(" What is man but a God who is afraid ? "), is 
not "miserly of immortal things." He utters 
the most divine secrets without fear, betraying 
certain hiding-places of the soul in those most 
nearly inaccessible retreats which lie nearest to 
us. All that he says we know already ; we may 
deny it, but we know it. It is what we are not 
often at leisure enough with ourselves, sincere 
enough with ourselves, to realise ; what we often 
dare not realise; but, when he says it, we know 



MAETERLINCK AS A MYSTIC 167 

that it is true, and our knowledge of it is his 
warrant for saying it. He is what he is precisely | 
because he tells us nothing which we do not | 
already know, or, it may be, what we have known 
and forgotten. 

The mystic, let it be remembered, has nothing L 
in common with the moralist. He speaks only to f 
those who are already prepared to listen to him, 
and he is indiifferent to the " practical " effect which 
these or others may draw from his words. A 
young and profound mystic of our day has figured 
the influence of wise words upon the foolish and 
headstrong as " torches thrown into a burning 
city." The mystic knows well that it is not 
always the soul of the drunkard or the blasphemer 
which is farthest from the eternal beauty. He is 
concerned only with that soul of the soul, that life 
of life, with which the day's doings have so little to 
do ; itself a mystery, and at home only among 
those supreme mysteries which surround it like an 
atmosphere. It is not always that he cares that his 
message, or his vision, may be as clear to others 
as it is to himself. But, because he is an artist, 
and not only a philosopher, Maeterlinck has taken 
especial pains that not a word of his may go astray. 



1 68 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

and there is not a word of this book which needs 
to be read twice, in order that it may be under- 
stood, by the least trained of attentive readers. It 
is, indeed, as he calls it, " The Treasure of the 
Lowly." 



CONCLUSION 



CONCLUSION 

Our only chance, in this world, of a complete 
happiness, lies in the measure of our success in 
shutting the eyes of the mind, and deadening its 
sense of hearing, and dulling the keenness of its 
apprehension of the unknown. Knowing so much 
less than nothing, for we are entrapped in smiling 
and many-coloured appearances, our life may seem 
to be but a little space of leisure, in which it will 
be the necessary business of each of us to speculate 
on what is so rapidly becoming the past and so 
rapidly becoming the future, that scarcely existing 
present which is after all our only possession. 
Yet, as the present passes from us, hardly to be 
enjoyed except as memory or as hope, and only 
with an at best partial recognition of the uncertainty 
or inutility of both, it is with a kind of terror that 
we wake up, every now and then, to the whole 
knowledge of our ignorance, and to some perception 



172 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

of where it is leading us. To live through a single 
day with that overpowering consciousness of our 
real position, which, in the moments in which alone 
it mercifully comes, is like blinding light or the 
thrust of a flaming sword, would drive any man out 
of his senses. It is our hesitations, the excuses of 
our hearts, the compromises of our intelligence, 
which save us. We can forget so much, we can 
bear suspense with so fortunate an evasion of its 
real issues ; we are so admirably finite. 

And so there is a great, silent conspiracy between 
us to forget death ; all our lives are spent in busily 
forgetting death. That is why we are active about 
so many things which we know to be unimportant ; 
why we are so afraid of solitude, and so thankful 
for the company of our fellow-creatures. Allowing 
ourselves, for the most part, to be but vaguely con- 
scious of that great suspense in which we live, we 
find our escape from its sterile, annihilating reality 
in many dreams, in religion, passion, art ; each a 
forgetfulness, each a symbol of creation ; religion 
being the creation of a new heaven, passion the 
creation of a new earth, and art, in its mingling of 
heaven and earth, the creation of heaven out of 
earth. Each is a kind of sublime selfishness, the 
saint, the lover, and the artist having each an 



CONCLUSION 173 

incommunicable ecstasy which he esteems as his 
ultimate attainment, however, in his lower moments, 
he may serve God in action, or do the will of his 
mistress, or minister to men by showing them a 
little beauty. But it is, before all things, an 
escape ; and the prophets who have redeemed the 
world, and the artists who have made the world 
beautiful, and the lovers who have quickened the 
pulses of the world, have really, whether they knew 
it or not, been fleeing from the certainty of one 
thought : that we have, all of us, only our one day; 
and from the dread of that other thought : that the 
day, however used, must after all be wasted. 

The fear of death is not cowardice ; it is, rather, 
an intellectual dissatisfaction with an enigma which 
has been presented to us, and which can be solved 
only when its solution is of no further use. All 
we have to ask of death is : what is life ? and we 
are waiting all through life to ask that question. 
That life should be happy or unhappy, as those 
words are used, means so very little ; and the 
heightening or lessening of the general felicity of 
the world means so little to any individual. There 
is something almost vulgar in happiness which does 
not become joy, and joy is an ecstasy which can 
rarely be maintained in the soul for more than the 



174 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

moment during which we recognise that it is not 
sorrow. Only very young people want to be 
happy. What we all want is to be quite sure that 
there is something which makes it worth while to 
go onJ.iving, in what seems to us our best way, at 
our_fi.n.eat intensitjL; something beyond the mere 
fact that we are satisfying a sort of inner logic 
(which may be quite faulty) and that we get our 
best makeshift for happiness on that so hazardous 
assumption. 

Well, the doctrine of Mysticism, with which all 
this symbolical literature has so much to do, of 
which it is all so much the expression, presents us, 
not with a guide for conduct, not with a plan for 
our happiness, not with an explanation of any 
mystery, but with a theory of life which makes us 
familiar with mystery, and which seems^to harmonise 
those instincts which make for religion, passion, 
and art, freeing us at once of a great bondage. 
The final uncertainty remains, but we seem to 
knock less helplessly at closed doors, coming so 
much closer to the once terrifying eternity of things 
about us, as we come to look upon these things as 
shadows, through which we have our shadowy 
passage. " For in the particular acts of human 
life," Plotinus tells us, "it is not the interior soul 



CONCLUSION i'7s 

and the true man, but the exterior shadow of the 
man alone, which laments and weeps, performing 
his part on the earth as in a more ample and 
extended scene, in which many shadows of souls 
and phantom scenes appear." And as we realise 
the identity of a poem, a prayer, or a kiss, in that 
spiritual universe which we are weaving for our- 
selves, each out of a thread of the great fabric ; as 
we realise the infinite insignificance of action, its 
immense distance from the current of life ; as we 
realise the delight of feeling ourselves carried 
onward by forces which it is our wisdom to obey ; 
it is at least with a certain relief that we turn to an 
ancient doctrine, so much the more likely to be 
true because it has so much the air of a dream. 
On this theory alone does all life become worth 
living, all art worth making, all worship worth 
offering. And because it might slay as well as 
save, because the freedom of its sweet captivity 
might so easily become deadly to the fool, because 
that is the hardest path to walk in where you are 
told only, walk well ; it is perhaps the only counsel 
of perfection which can ever really mean much to 
the artist. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 

1 HE essays contained in this book are not in- 
tended to give information. They are concerned 
with ideas rather than with facts ; each is a study 
of a problem, only in part a literary one, in which 
I have endeavoured to consider writers as person- 
alities under the action of spiritual forces, or as 
themselves so many forces. But it has seemed to 
me that readers have a right to demand informa- 
tion in regard to writers who are so often likely to 
be unfamiliar to them. I have therefore given a 
bibhography of the works of each writer with 
whom I have dealt, and I have added a number 
of notes, giving various particulars which I think 
are likely to be useful in fixing more definitely the 
personal characteristics of these writers. 



i8o THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 



GERARD DE NERVAL 
(1808— 1855) 

Napoleon ef la France Guerriere, elegies nationales, 
1826; La mart de Talma, 1826; L' Academie, ou 
les Membres Introuvables, come'die satirique en vers, 
1826 ; Napoleon et Talma, elegies nationales nouvelles, 
1826 ; M. Dentscourt, ou le Cuisinier Grand Homme, 
1826 ; Elegies Nationales et Satires Polifiques, 1827 ; 
Faust, tragidie de Goethe, 1828 (suivi du second 
Faust, 1840) ; Couronne Poetique de Be'ranger, 1828 ; 
Le Peuple, ode, 1830 ; Poesies Allemandes, Mor^eaux 
choisis et traduits, 1 830 ; Choix de Poesies de Ron- 
sard et de Regnier, 1830 ; Nos Adiewc a la Chambre 
de Deputes de Pan 1830, 1831 ; Le'nore, traduite de 
Burger, 1835 ; Piquilo, opera comique (with Dumas), 
1837 ; L'Alchimiste, drame en vers (with Dumas), 
1839; Leo Burckhardt, drame en prose (with Dumas), 
1839; Scenes de la Vie Orientale, 2 vols., 1848— 
1850 ; Les Montenegrins, opera comique (with 
Alboize), 1849 ; Le Chariot d Enfant, drame en vers 
(with Mdry), 1850 ; Les Nuits du Ramazan, 1850; 
Voyage en Orient, 1851; L'Imagier de Harlem, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES i8i 

legende en prose et en vers (with M6ry and Bernard 
Lopez), 1852; Contes et Face'ties, 1852; Lorely, 
souvenirs (TAlkmagne, 1852; Les Illumines, 1852; 
Petits Chateaux de Boheme, 1853 ; Les Filles du 
Feu, 1854 ; Misanthropie et Repentir, drame de 
Kotzebue, 1855; La Boheme galante, 1855; Le 
Reve et la Vie: Aurelia, 1855; Le Marquis de 
Fayolle (with E. Gorges), 1856 ; (Euvres Completes, 
6 vols, (i, Les Deux Faust de Goethe; 2,3, Voyage 
en Orient; 4, Les Illumines, Les Faux Saulniers; 
5, Le Reve et la Vie, Les Filles du Feu, La Boheme 
galante; 6, Poesies Computes), 186^. 

The sonnets, written at different periods and 
never published during the lifetime of Gdrard, are 
contained in the volume of Poesies Completes, 
where they are imbedded in the midst of de- 
plorable juvenilia. All, or almost all, of the 
verse worth preserving was collected, in 1897, by 
that delicate amateur of the curiosities of beauty, 
M. Remy de Gourmont, in a tiny volume called 
Les Chimeres, which contains the seven sonnets of 
"Les Chimferes," the sonnet called "Vers Dords," 
the five sonnets of " Le Christ aux Oliviers," and, 
in facsimile of the autograph, the lyric called ' ' Les 
Cydalises." The true facts of the life of Gdrard 
have been told for the first time, from original 



1 82 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

documents, by Mme. Arvfede Barine, in two excel- 
lent articles in the Revue des Deux Moncks, 
October 15 and November i, 1897, since reprinted 
in Les Nevrose's, 1898. 



VILLIERS DE L'ISLE-ADAM 
(1838— 1889) 

Premieres Poesies, 1859; •^■sz's, 1862; Elen, 
1864; Morgane, 1865; Claire Lenoir (in the 
Revue des- Lettres et des Arts), 1867; L! Evasion, 
1870; La Revolte, 1870; Azrael, 1878; Le 
Nouveau Monde, 1 880; Confes Cruels, 1880; 
L'Eve Future, 1886; Akedysseril, 1886; L' Amour 
Supreme, 1886; Tribulat Bonhomet, 1887; Histoires 
Insolites, 1888; Nouveaux Contes Cruels, 1889; 
Axel, 1890; Chez les Passants, 1890; Propos 
d'Au-dela, 1893. 

Among works announced, but never published, 
it may be interesting to mention : Seid, William de 
Strally, Faust, Poesies Nouvelles [Intermedes ; Gog; 
Ave, Mater Victa ; Poesies diver ses), La Tentation 
sur la Montagne, Le Vieux de la Montagne, L' Adora- 
tion des Mages, Meditations Litte'raires, Me'langes, 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 183 

Theatre (2 vols.), Documents sur les Regnes de 
Charles VI. et de Charles VII., Llllusionisme, De 
la Connaissance de I' Utile, L'Exe'gese Divine. 

A sympathetic, but slightly vague. Life of Villiers 
was written by his cousin, Vicomte Robert du 
Pontavice de Heussey : Villiers de VIsle-Adam, 
1893 ; it was translated into English by Lady Mary 
Lloyd, 1894. See Verlaine's Poetes Maudits, 1884, 
and his biography of Villiers in Les Hommes 
d'Aujourd'hui, the series of penny biographies, 
with caricature portraits, published by Vanier; 
also Mallarm^'s Villiers de VIsle-Adam, the reprint 
of a lecture given at Brussels a few months after 
Villiers' death. La Revoke was translated by Mrs. 
Theresa Barclay in the Fortnightly Review, Decem- 
ber 1897. I have translated a little poem, Aveu, 
from the interlude of verse in the Contes Cruels 
called Chant d^ Amour, in Days and Nights, 1889. 
An article of mine, the first, I beUeve, to be written 
on Villiers in English, appeared in the Woman's 
World in 1889; another in the Illustrated London 
News in 1891. 



1 84 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 



ARTHUR RIMBAUD 
(1854—1891) 

Une Saison en Enfer, 1873 ; Les Illuminations^ 
1886; Reliquaire, 1891 (containing several poems 
falsely attributed to Rimbaud) ; Les Illuminations : 
Une Saisoti en Enfer, 1892 ; Poesies Completes, 1895. 

See also Paterne Berrichon, La Vie de Jean-Arthur 
Rimbaud, 1898; Paul Verlaine, Les Poetes Maudits, 
1884, and the biography by Verlaine in Les 
Hommes d'Aujourd'hui. Mr. George Moore was 
the first to write about Rimbaud in England, in 
"Two Unknown Poets " (Rimbaud and Laforgue) 
in Impressions and Opinions, 1891. In Mr. John 
Gray's Silverpoints, 1893, there are translations of 
"Charleville" and "Sensation." The latter, and 
" Les Chercheuses de Poux," are translated by 
Mr. T. Sturge Moore in The Vinedresser, and other 
Poems, 1899. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 185 



PAUL VERLAINE 
(1844— 1896) 

Poemes Saturniens, 1866; Fetes Galantes, 1869; 
La Bonne Chanson, 1870; Romances sans Paroles, 
1874; Sagesse, 188 1 ; Les Poetes Maudits, 1884; 
Jadis et Naguere, 1884; Les Me'moires d'un Veuf, 
1886 ; Louise Leclercq (suivi de Le Poieau, Pierre 
Duchatelet, Madame Aubin), 1887; Amour, 1888; 
Parallelement, 1889; De'dicaces, 1890; Bonheur, 
1891 ; Mes Hopitaux, 1891 ; Chansons pour Elk, 
1891 ; Liturgies Intimes, 1892 ; Mes Prisons, 
1893 ; Odes en son Honneur, 1893 ; Elegies, 1893 ; 
Quinze Jours en Hollande, 1 894 ; Dans les Limbes, 
1894; Epigrammes, 1894; Confessions, 1895; 
Chair, 1896 ; Invectives, 1896. 

The complete works of Verlaine are now in 
course of publication in three volumes at the 
Librairie L^on Vanier; a Choix de Poesies, 1891, 
with a preface by Fran9ois Coppee, and a repro- 
duction of Carriere's admirable portrait, is pub- 
lished in one volume by Charpentier ; the series of 
Hommes d'Aujourd'hui contains twenty-seven bio- 



i86 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

graphical notices by Verlaine ; and a considerable 
number of poems and prose articles exists, scattered 
in various magazines, some of them English, such 
as the Senate; in some cases the articles them- 
selves are translated into English, such as "My 
Visit to London," in the Savoy for April 1896, and 
" Notes on England : Myself as a French Master," 
and " Shakespeare and Racine," in the Fortnightly 
Review for July 1894 and September 1894. The 
first English translation in verse from Verlaine is 
Arthur O'Shaughnessy's rendering of "Clair de 
Lune " in Fetes Galantes, under the title " Pastel," 
in Songs of a Worker, 1881. A volume of trans- 
lations in verse. Poems of Verlaine, by Gertrude 
Hall, was published in America in 1895. In 
Mr. John Gray's Silverpoints, 1893, there are 
translations of "Parsifal," "A Crucifix," "Le 
Chevalier Malheur," "Spleen," "Clair de Lune," 
" Mon Dieu m'a dit," and " Green." I have trans- 
lated eight of the Fetes Galantes and one of the 
Romances sans Paroles in the second edition of 
Silhouettes, 1896. 

As I have mentioned, there have been many 
portraits of Verlaine. The three portraits drawn 
on lithographic paper by Mr. Rothenstein, and 
published in 1898, are but the latest, if also among 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 187 

the best, of a long series, of which Mr. Rothen- 
stein himself has done two or three others, one of 
which was reproduced in the Pall Mall Gazette in 
1894, when Verlaine was in London. M. F. A. 
Cazals, a young artist who was one of Verlaine's 
most intimate friends, has done I should not like 
to say how many portraits, some of which he has 
gathered together in a little book, Paul Verlaine: 
ses Portraits, 1898. There are portraits in nine of 
Verlaine's own books, several of them by M. Cazals 
(roughly jotted, expressive notes of moments), one 
by M. Anquetin (a strong piece of thinking flesh 
and blood), and in the Ckotx de Poesies there is 
a reproduction of the cloudy, inspired poet of 
M. Eugfene Carrifere's painting. Another portrait, 
which I have not seen, but which Verlaine himself 
calls, in the De'dicaces, un portrait enfin repose, 
was done by M. Aman-Jean. M. Niederhausern 
has done a bust in bronze, Mr. Rothenstein a 
portrait medallion. A new edition of the Con- 
fessions, 1899, contains a number of sketches; 
Verlaine Dessinateur, 1896, many more; and there 
are yet others in the extremely objectionable book 
of M. Charles Donos, Verlaine Intime, 1898. The 
Hommes d'Aujourd'hui contains a caricature-por- 
trait, many other portraits have appeared in French 



i88 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

and English and German and Italian magazines, 
and there is yet another portrait in the admirable 
little book of Charles Morice, Paul Verlaine, 1888, 
which contains by far the best study that has ever 
been made of Verlaine as a poet. I believe Mr. 
George Moore's article, "A Great Poet," reprinted 
in Impressions and Opinions, 1891, was the first 
that was written on Verlaine in England ; my own 
article in the National Review in 1892 was, I 
believe, the first detailed study of the whole of his 
work up to that date. 



JULES LAFORGUE 
(i860— 1887) 

Les Complaintes, 1885 ; II Imitation de Notre- 
Dame la Lune, 1886; Le Concile Fe'erique, 1886; 
Moralit^s Legendaires, 1887 ; Demiers Vers, 1890 
(a privately printed volume, containing Des Fleurs 
de Bonne Volonte, Le Concile Feerique, and Demiers 
Vers); Poesies Completes, 1894. 

The first volume of an edition of the Moralites 
Legendaires was published in 1897, under the care 
of M. Lucien Pissarro, at the Sign of the Dial ; it 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 189 

is printed in Mr. Ricketts' admirable type, and 
makes one of the most beautiful volumes issued in 
French during this century. In 1896 M. Camille 
Mauclair, with his supple instinct for contemporary 
values, wrote a study, or rather an eulogy, of 
Laforgue, to which M. Maeterlinck contributed a 
few searching and delicate words by way of 
preface. 



ST^PHANE MALLARMfi 
(1842— 1898) 

Le Corbeau (traduit de Poe), 1875 ; La Detniere 
Mode, 1875; L'Apres-Midi d'un Faune, 1876; 
Vathek de Beckford, iSy6; Petite Philologie a 
r Usage des Classes et du Monde : Les Mots Anglais, 
1877 ; Poesies Completes (photograv^es sur le manu- 
scrit), 1887 ; Les Poemes de Poe, 1888 ; Le Ten 
d Clock de M. Whistler, 1888 ; Pages, 1891 ; Les 
Miens: Villiers de l' Isle-Adam, 1892 ; Vers et Prose, 
1892 ; La Musique et les Lettres (Oxford, Cam- 
bridge), 1894; Divagations, 1897; Poesies, 1899. 

See, on this difficult subject, Edmund Gosse, 
Questions at Issue, 1893, in which will be found the 
first study of Mallarm6 that appeared in English ; 



igo THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

and Vittorio Pica, Letteratura d'Eccezione, 1899, 
which contains a carefully-documented study of 
more than a hundred pages. There is a transla- 
tion of the poem called " Fleurs " in Mr. John Gray's 
Silverpoints, 1893, and mytranslation of "Herodiade" 
is about to appear in Images of Good and Evil. 
Several of the poems in prose have been trans- 
lated into English ; my translation of the " Plainte 
d'Automne," contained in this volume, was made in 
momentary forgetfulness that the same poem in 
prose had already been translated by Mr. George 
Moore in Confessions of a Young Man. Mr. Moore 
also translated " Le Phdnomfene Futur" in the Savoy, 
July 1896. 



JORIS KARL HUYSMANS 
(1848) 

Le Drageotr a Epices, 1874; Marthe, Hisfoire 
d'une Fille, 1876; Les Sceurs Vatard, 1879; 
Croquis Parisiens, 1880; En Menage, 1881; A 
Vau-l'Eau, 1882; LArt Modeme, 1883; A 
Rebours, 1884; Un Dilemme, 1887; En Rode, 
1887; Certains, 1889; La Bievre, 1890; La-Bas, 
1891 ; En Route, 1895; La Cathe'drale, 1898; La 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 191 

Bievre et Satni-SSverin, 1899. See also the short 
story, Sac au Dos, in the Soirees de Medan, 1880, 
and the pantomime, Pierrot Sceptique, 1881, in 
collaboration with Ldon Hennique. En Route was 
translated into English by Mr. Kegan Paul, in 
1896; and La Cathe'drale by Miss Clara Bell, in 
1898. 

I have elsewhere dealt at greater length with 
Huysmans, whom I consider here only under a 
single aspect, as shown in a single book. The 
reader may be referred to my article on En Route 
in Studies in Two Literatures; o( the longer study 
of the whole of Huysmans' work up to Lci-Bas, 
which I published in the Fortnightly Review in 
March 1892, I care to preserve nothing but a 
personal impression of the man, which I give here 
as not perhaps without some psychological interest. 
At the time of which I speak he was writing 
La-Bas. 

" To realise how faithfully and how completely 
Huysmans has revealed himself in all he has 
written, it is necessary to know the man. ' He 
gave me the impression of a cat,' some interviewer 
once wrote of him ; ' courteous, perfectly polite, 
almost amiable, but all nerves, ready to shoot out 
his claws at the least word.' And, indeed, there 



192 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

is something of his favourite animal about him. 
The face is grey, wearily alert, with a look of 
benevolent malice. At first sight it is common- 
place, the features are ordinary, one seems to have 
seen it at the Bourse or the Stock Exchange. But 
gradually that strange, unvarying expression, that 
look of benevolent malice, grows upon you, as the 
influence of the man makes itself felt. I have seen 
Huysmans in his office : he was formerly an 
employ^ in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and a 
model employ^; I have seen him in a cafe, in 
various houses ; but I always see him in memory 
as I used to see him at the house of the bizarre 
Madame X. He leans back on the sofa, rolling a 
cigarette between his thin, expressive fingers, look- 
ing at no one and at nothing, while Madame X. 
moves about with solid vivacity in the midst of her 
extraordinary menagerie of brie-a-brac. The spoils 
of all the world are there, in that incredibly tiny 
salon; they lie underfoot, they climb up walls, 
they cling to screens, brackets, and tables ; one of 
your elbows menaces a Japanese toy, the other a 
Dresden china shepherdess ; all the colours of the 
rainbow clash in a barbaric discord of notes. And 
in a corner of this fantastic room, Huysmans lies 
back indifferently on the sofa, with the air of one 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 193 

perfectly resigned to the boredom of life. Some- 
thing is said by my learned friend who is to write 
for the new periodical, or perhaps it is the young 
editor of the new periodical who speaks, or (if that 
were not impossible) the taciturn Englishman who 
accompanies me; and Huysmans, without looking 
up, and without taking the trouble to speak very 
distinctly, picks up the phrase, transforms it, more 
likely transpierces it, in a perfectly turned sentence, 
a phrase of impromptu elaboration. Perhaps it is 
only a stupid book that some one has mentioned, 
or a stupid woman ; as he speaks, the book looms 
up before one, becomes monstrous in its dulness, 
a masterpiece and miracle of imbecility ; the un- 
important little woman grows into a slow horror 
before your eyes. It is always the unpleasant 
aspect of things that he seizes, but the intensity of 
his revolt from that unpleasantness brings a touch 
of the sublime into the very expression of his 
disgust. Every sentence is an epigram, and every 
epigram slaughters a reputation or an idea. He 
speaks with an accent as of pained surprise, an 
amused look of contempt, so profound that it 
becomes almost pity, for human imbecility." 



194 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 



MAURICE MAETERLINCK 
(1862) 

Serres Chaudes, 1889 ; LaPrincesse Maleine, 1890; 
Les Aveugles {L'Intruse, Les Aveugles), 1890; 
UOmement des Noces Spirituelles, de Ruysbroeck 
r Admirable, 1891 ; Les Sept Princesses, 1891 ; 
PelMas et Mdisande, 1892 ; Alladine et Palomides, 
Interieur, La Morte de Tintagiles, 1894 ; Annabella, 
de John Ford, 1895 ; Les Disciples a. Sai's et les 
Fragments de Novalis, 1895 ; Le Tresor des Humbles, 
1896; Douze Chansons, 1896; Aglavaine et Se'ly- 
sette, 1896 ; La Sagesse et la Destinee, 1898. 

M. Maeterlinck has had the good or bad fortune 
to be more promptly, and more violently, praised at 
the beginning of his career than at all events any 
other writer of whom I have spoken in this volume. 
His fame in France was made by a flaming article 
of M. Octave Mirbeau in the Figaro of August 24, 
1890. M. Mirbeau greeted him as the " Belgian 
Shakespeare," and expressed his opinion of La 
Princesse Maleine by saying " M. Maeterlinck has 
given us the greatest work of genius that has been 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 195 

produced in our time, and the most extraordinary and 
the most naive too, comparable, (dare I say ?) superior 
in beauty to what is most beautiful in Shakespeare 
. . . more tragic than Macbeth, more extraor- 
dinary in thought than Hamlet^ Mr. William 
Archer introduced M. Maeterlinck to England in 
an article called " A Pessimist Playwright " in the 
Fortnightly Review, September 1891. Less enthusi- 
astic than M. Mirbeau, he defined the author of 
La Princesse Maleine as " a Webster who had read 
Alfred de Musset." A freely adapted version of 
L'Intruse was given by Mr. Tree at the Haymarket 
Theatre, January 27, 1892, and since that time 
many of M. Maeterlinck's plays have been acted, 
without cuts, or with but few cuts, at various 
London theatres. Several of his books have also 
been translated into English : The Princess Maleine 
(by Gerard Harry) and The Intruder (by William 
Wilson), 1892 ; Pelleas and Melisanda and The 
Sightless (by Laurence Alma Tadema), 1892 ; 
Ruysbroeck and the Mystics (by J. T. Stoddart), 
1894 ; The Treasure of the Humble (by A. Sutro), 
1897 ; Aglavaine and Selyseite (by A. Sutro), 1897 ; 
Wisdom and Destiny (by A. Sutro) 1898 ; Alladine 
and Palomides (by A. Sutro), Interior (by William 



196 THE SYMBOLIST MOVEMENT 

Archer), and The Death of Tintagiles (by A. Sutro), 
1899. 

I have spoken, in this volume, chiefly of 
Maeterlinck's essays, and but little of his plays, 
and I have said all that I had to say without 
special reference to the second volume of essays, 
La Sagesse et la Destin^e. Like Le Tresor des 
Humbles, that book is a message, a doctrine, even 
more than it is a piece of literature. It is a 
treatise on wisdom and happiness, on the search 
for happiness because it is wisdom, not for wisdom 
because it is happiness. It is a book of patient 
and resigned philosophy, a very Flemish philosophy, 
more resigned than even Le Tresor des Humbles. 
In a sense it seems to aim less high. An ecstatic 
mysticism has given way to a kind of prudence. 
Is this coming nearer to the earth really an in- 
tellectual ascent or descent ? At least it is a diver- 
gence, and it probably indicates a divergence in 
art as well as in meditation. Yet, while it is quite 
possible to at least indicate Maeterlinck's position 
as a philosopher, it seems to me premature to 
attempt to define his position as a dramatist. 
Interesting as his dramatic work has always been, 
there is, in the later dramas, so singular an advance 
in all the qualities that go to make great art, that 



BIBLIOGRAPHY AND NOTES 197 

I find it impossible, at this stage of his develop- 
ment, to treat his dramatic work as in any sense 
the final expression of a personality. What the 
next stage of his development may be it is impos- 
sible to say. He will not write more beautiful 
dramas than he has written in Aglavaine et Selysette 
and in Pelleas et Melisande. But he may, and he 
probably will, write something which will move the 
general world more profoundly, touching it more 
closely, in the manner of the great writers, in whom 
beauty has not been more beautiful than in writers 
less great, but has come to men with a more 
splendid energy. 



Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson &* Co. 
London &= Edinburgh 



"5f/ • ■ . ir ■>■'! 



