BOUGHT WITH THE INCOME 
FROM a'HE 

SAGE ENDOWMENT FUND 

THE GIFT OF 

llenrg W. Sage 

1891 



fi..1uM..08-'^.X ^v^ 



/f//.//..o.>. 
6896-1 



Cornell University Library 
Z155 .A52 

Makers of Hebrew books in Italy- bein^ c 

3 1924 029 498 213 
olin 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/cletails/cu31924029498213 



PUBLISHER'S NOTE 

Five Hundred copies of this work were 
printed, each copy numbered and the 
type distributed. This is No. Znj.. 



Tke Makers of 
Hetrew Books m Italy 



ERRATA 



Page 29, line 20, rej 


id '*waa" for "were." 


" 29, ' 


24, 


' "among" for "between." 


" 30, ' 


24, 


' "last" for "latter." 


" 68, ' 


8, 


* "had" for "has." 


'■ 159, ' 


5, 


' "knew" for "know." 


" 240, ' 


23. 


' "1467" for "1407." 


" 297, • 


4, 


' "Latin" for "Hebrew." 


" 319 ■ 


22, 


* "Zeri hayagon." 


" 343, ' 


21, 


'-^ "Zahab." 


" 346, ■ 


15, notes, ' 


• "Abkat." 


" 350, ■ 


last, " 


' "hashpaat tub" "hamuskalot." 


" 354, ■ 


" 


' "biur" for "bine." 


" 397, ' 


20, " 


' "Omer Naka." 



Indulgence is asked for other typographical errors in transliterating 
Hebrew titles. 




JULIUS H. GREENSTONE, PHILADELPHIA, NINETEEN HUNDRED AND NINE 



A a. -i . ^ ^ n 

Copyright, 1909, 
By DAVID WERNER AMRAM 



Published, November, 1909 



Press of 

Edward Stern & Co., Inc., 

Philadelphia 



INSCRIBED 
TO 

LEWIS W. STEINBACH 

WISE AND SKILFUL PHYSICIAN 

LOYAL AND DEVOTED FRIEND 

LOVER OF HIS PEOPLE AND THEIR INHERITANCE 

WORTHY SUCCESSOR TO THE LONG LINE OF THOSE WHO IN ALL THE 
GENERATIONS OF ISRAEL NOT ONLY FULFILLED THE EXACTING DUTIES 
OF THEIR NOBLE PROFESSION BUT FOUND TIME FOR THE CULTIVA- 
TION OF THE BEAUTIES OF THEIR RELIGION AND ITS LITERATURE; 
NOT LEAST AMONG WHOM WERE THOSE WHO STOOD AT THE 
CRADLE OF THE HEBREW PRESS 



PREFACE 

SOME of the chapters of this book originally 
appeared as a series of articles entitled ' 'He- 
brew Printers and Printing in Italy" published in 
the Jewish Exponent of Philadelphia in 1906- 
1907. These have been revised and enlarged. 

In preparing the work I had the use of the 
splendid library of Dr. Julius H. Greenstone, rich 
in examples of nearly every Hebrew press in the 
world and containing many incunabula and other 
rarities. Many of the illustrations in this book 
are made from his collection. 

My manuscript was revised by my wife, and 
many of her valuable suggestions have found a 
place in these pages. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I. 

Introductory. 
Jewish Historiography — Jews of Italy — History of 
Hebrew typography — The "holy work" of printing 
— Gutenberg and the Jews — Legendary antiquity 
of printing — Hebrew types at Avignon, 1444 — 
Schweinheim and Pannartz at Subiaco — ^The Bene- 
dictines 1 

CHAPTER II. 

The Pioneers (1475-1482). 

Origin of the Hebrew Press — ^The work of De Rossi — 
Abraham b. Garton of Reggio di Calabria — Dr. 
Meshullam Cusi of Pieve di Sacco — ^The garden of 
Pico della Mirandola — Dr. Abraham Conat of 
Mantua — Estellina Conat — The Scribe and the 
printer — ^Abraham the Dyer of Pesaro — Duke 
Ercole of Ferrara — ^The Hebrew press at Ferrara — 
The press of Caravita at Bologna — ^Jewish book- 
sellers at the Universities 21 

CHAPTER III. 

The Sons of Soncino. 
Moses Mentzlan and Giovanni di Capistrano — 
Samuel b. Moses at Soncino — Dr. Israel Nathan 
Soncino — Joshua Solomon Soncino — ^The first Tal- 
mudic Treatise — ^The first Mahzor — At Casal- 
maggiore — The first Bible — Joshua Solomon Son- 
cino at Naples — ^The Neapolitan printers — ^The 
Ashkenazi — Katorzi — ^The Canon and the Agur. . . 51 

[ix] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

CHAPTER IV. 

Gerson Soncino (1488-1497). 
Milan and Venice— The name of Gerson — His biog- 
raphers — His character and achievements — ^The 
first illustrated book — At Brescia — War and perse- 
cution — At Barco — Expurgation — Gerson the Wan- 
derer — At Venice — Padre Georgi 70 

CHAPTER V. 

Gerson Soncino (1501-1512). 
At Fano — Caesar Borgia — Why Gerson went to Fano 
— Gerson Soncino becomes Hieronymus Soncinus 
— Lorenzo Astemio edits Soncino's Latin and Italian 
books — Gerson's dedication of Petrarca to Caesar 
Borgia — His rivalry with Aldo Manuzio — ^The en- 
graver Francesco Griffo and the origin of Aldine 
types — His patroness the Lady Ginevra Sforza of 
Pesaro — Gerson removes to Pesaro — He becomes 
the printer of Municipal Statutes — The death of 
the Lord of Pesaro and its union with Urbino — 
The intercourse between Jew and Christian — The 
Reuchlin controversy and the Talmud — Morality of 
the Jews — The origin of Mantegna's "Madonna 
della Vittoria" — Gerson publishes works of Savona- 
rola — Writes an "Introduction to Hebrew letters" 
— Sells books at Perugia 89 

CHAPTER VI. 

Gerson Soncino (1513-1534). 
Ancona — Political Upheaval — Battista Guarini's verses 
on the Jew-badge — At Ortona-a-Mare — Pietro Gala- 
tino's " Mystery of Catholic Truth " — Gerson's toler- 
ance — At Rimini — The invitation of the Ecclesias- 
tical Council — Gerson's book-mark — His contro- 

[x] 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



versy with an apostate in Bomberg's shop — His last 
book in Italy, 1527 — The sack of Rome — Gerson 
in Turkey — List of Soncino publications 116 

CHAPTER VII. 
Daniel Bomberg (1515-1522). 
The primacy of Venice in typography— Germans at 
\'enice — Bomberg and Adelkind — The Latin Psalms 
of Felice da Prato — When did Bomberg begin print- 
ing Hebrew books? — The early printing laws — 
The Jew-badge and the Ghetto — The Great Rab- 
binical Bible — Bomberg's difficulties in securing 
renewal of his copyright — Press regulations — Papal 
decrees against the Talmud — The Reuchlin Con- 
troversy and Pope Leo X. — The first printed Talmud 
— Bomberg's letters to Reuchlin 146 

CHAPTER VIII. 
Daniel Bomberg (1523-1536). 
Bomberg's editors — The eulogy of Dr. Abraham de 
Balmes — Bomberg's struggle for renewal of license 
— Opposition of Marino Sanuto — Bomberg's enor- 
mous losses — Bomberg and Soncino — The home of 
the Venetian printers — Scenes from the press rooms 
— Cornelio Adelkind — The qualifications of the 
early printers — Eulogies of Bomberg — Elijah Levita 
and Cardinal Egidio of Viterbo — Did Cornelio 
Adelkind apostatize ? — The year of the plague, its 
effect 168 

CHAPTER IX. 

Daniel Bomberg (1537-1549). 
The Venetian Press Laws of 1537 — Ecclesiastical 
censorship — Elijah Levita's grammatical works — - 

[xi] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

His distinction and influence — -Bomberg's rival, 
Giustiniani, and the presses of Dei Farri and 
Briicioli — Growth of Ecclesiastical influence at 
Venice — The laws of 1544—1545 — The Executors 
against Blasphemy — Cornelio Adelkind's ascen- 
dancy — Two of his letters to Andrea Masio — The 
last year of the Bomberg press — His types and in- 
fluence — List of Bomberg publications 191 

CHAPTER X. 
Some Minor Presses. 
Influence of world movements on Hebrew typography 
— Bishop Agostino Giustiniani — ^The polyglot Psal- 
ter of Genoa — Christopher Columbus — ^Trino — 
Jacob b. Abigedor of Padua — The Canons of St. 
Ambrose at Milan — The Jewish Silkweavers of 
Bologna — Printing partnerships — Censorship be- 
fore publication — The Roman Ghetto — Leo X. — 
Cardinal Egidio of Viterbo — The first Hebrew Book 
at Rome — Elijah Levita — Later Roman Presses — 
The Church and the Press — The Duke of Parma — 
Antonio Blado 225 

CHAPTER XI. 

The Quarrel of Giustini.ani and Bragadini and 
THE Condemnation of the Talmud. 

Marco Antonio Giustiniani — His Talmud Edition — 
List of his publications — Rabbi Meir of Padua and 
his edition of Maimonides — The foundation of the 
House of Bragadini — Giustiniani's rival edition of 
Maimonides — The decision of Rabbi Moses Isserles 
— The quarrel is carried to Rome — The Roman 
apostates — The far-reaching effect of the quarrel — 
The Cardinals condemn the Talmud to be destroyed 

f xiil 



TABLE OF CONTENTS 



— The protest of Andrea Masio — The burning of 
the Talmud in the Campo di Fiori — The decree of 
the Council of Ten at Venice — The books of Judah 
di Lerma and the heirs of Bomberg — The Papal Bull 
of 1554— The death of Pope Julius III 252 

CHAPTER XII. 
Ferrara, Sabbioneta and Riva di Trento. 

The Jews of Ferrara — The Abrabanelli — Samuel ibn 
Askarah — The family of the Usque — Abraham 
Usque and the " Ferrara Bible" — Samuel Usque the 
poet — The Jewish Congress at Ferrara, and its 
decree concerning the Hebrew press — ^Tobia Foa of 
Sabbioneta — The personnel of his press — An at- 
tempt to reprint the Talmud — The fame of the 
Sabbioneta press — Rabbi Joseph Ottolenghi, Dr. 
Jacob Marcaria and Cardinal Madrucci at Riva di 
Trento — Renaissance and Reaction — The Cardi- 
nal's patronage of the Hebrew press — His reputed 
heresy 277 

CHAPTER XHI. 
Cremona and Mantua. 

The Ghetto of Cremona — The conflict of authority 
between the civil and ecclesiastical authorities of 
Cremona — Cardinal Michele Ghislieri — The seizure 
of books at Cremona — ^Vicenzo Conti — Duke Gu- 
glielmo Gonzaga of Mantua and the Jews — Joseph 
Shalit, Meir the Scribe, Jacob of Gazolo — The 
Ruffinelli and Filliponi — The printing of the Zohar 
— The Council of Trent and the Index — The plague 
and the end of Meir the Scribe — The Zifroni — 
Eliezer d'ltalia, Judah Samuel of Perugia and son, 306 

[ xiii ] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

CHAPTER XIV. 
The Resumption of the Press at Venice. 

The press at Padua — ^The new presses at Venice — The 
Hebrew press exempt from the general decline of 
printing — ^The Zanetti family — Giorgio di Cavalii 
— ^The popularity of the law codes — Giovanni 
Grifio — Giovanni di Gara the "heir of Bomberg" — 
The fame of the di Gara press — Printing then and 
now — ^The law of 1571 forbidding Jews to print — 
The blunders of Christian compositors — Isaac Ger- 
son and his opinion on index and table of contents — 
New regulations concerning license — Sixtus V. — 
Alvise Bragadini and Meir Parenzo — ^The types of 
Guillaume le Be 338 

CHAPTER XV. 

The Seventeenth Century and After. 

The press of the Vendramini — The succession of the 
Bragadini — ^The tribulations, of Jewish bookmen — 
The story of Leon da Modena — ^The decline of Italy 
and rise of the Netherlands — The perpetual inter- 
ference of the Venetian authorities and its effect— 
The new presses in Northern Europe rise at the 
expense of Venice — ^The paltry output of other 
Italian presses — Padua and Verona — The story of 
Rabbi Abraham Saba — The decline of Hebrew 
printing — Chieri and Asti — ^The humility of the 
bookmen — The Polacco family and the Foa — 
Sporadic presses at Pisa, Mantua — The rise and 
progress of the press at Leghorn — Florence — Modern 
conditions in Italy 372 

Bibliography 409 

Index 414 

[ xiv ] 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 



Adaptation of a Sabbioneta title page .... Title page 

Printer's mark of Gerson Soncino Opposite 1 

In the Scriptorium 9 

The Pioneer Press 17 

A page of Gersonides' Commentary on the Pentateuch, 

Conat, Mantua, before 1480 33 

Ercole I, Duke of Ferrara 43 

Francesco Sforza I, Duke of Milan 55 

A page of Kimhi's Book of Roots 

Katorzi, Naples, 1491 67 

A page from the Mahzor. 

Soncino, 1486 75 

A typical Soncino initial word 85 

Initial words from Soncino's Mahzor 93 

Medal of Aldo Manuzio 101 

Title page of Kolbo 

Soncino, Rimini, 1515 119 

From Colophon of Kalbo 

Soncino, Rimini, 1525 133 

Initial word from Rabbinical Bible 

Bomberg, Venice, 1517-1518 151 

Page of Song of Songs from First Rabbinical Bible 

Bomberg, Venice, 1517-1518 157 

Page of Sukkah, First Edition of Talmud 

Bomberg, Venice, 1521 163 

Title page of Abraham de Balmes' Hebrew Grammar 

Bomberg, Venice, 1523 171 

Title page of Investigation of the World 

Adelkind, Venice, 1546 181 

From Elijah Levita's Massoret Hamassoret 

Bomberg, Venice, 1538 195 

From Asheri's Commentary on the Pentateuch 

Dei Farri, Venice, 1544 199 

[XV] 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 

Title page of Pesikta Zutarta 

Bomberg, Venice, 1546 215 

Introductory Poem in Torah Or (Law is Light) 

The Silkweavers, Bologna, 1538 231 

Pope Leo X 237 

Pope Paul III 247 

Title page of Rabbi Nissim's Responsa 

Rome, 1546 249 

Title page of Rabbi Shem Tob's Homilies 

Giustiniani, Venice, 1547, 255 

Censored page of Yalkut Shimeoni 

Bragadini, Venice, 1566 257 

Pope Paul IV 265 

Title page of "Honor of God" 

Usque, Ferrara, 1556 281 

Title page of the Book of the Grievous Vision 

"The Partners," Sabbioneta, 1552 289 

Printer's mark of "the partners" at Sabbioneta 293 

Printer's mark of Tobia Foa of Sabbioneta 295 

Arms of Cardinal Madrucci on title page of "Turim" 

Marcaria, Riva di Trento, 1560 299 

Censor's signatures on last page of Toaliyot of 
Ralbag 

Marcaria, Riva di Trento, 1560 301 

Title page of Sefer Keritut 

Conti, Cremona, 1558 311 

Printer's mark of Vicenzo Conti 317 

Last page of "The Custom of the Fathers" 

Latif, Mantua, 1514 321 

Title page of "Generations of Isaac" 

Meir of Padua and Jacob of Gazolo, Mantua, 

1558 329 

From "Book of the Creation" 

Jacob of Gazolo, Mantua, 1562 335 

Title page of "The Way of Faith" 

Pasquato, Padua, 1563 339 



[xvi; 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGE 

Title page of Responsa 

Zanetti, Venice, 1602 345 

Title page of the record of the Divorce Proceeding of 
Samuel Ventorozo 

Cavalli, Venice, 1566 347 

Title page of Sforno's Commentary on the Pentateuch 

Grifio, Venice, 1567 353 

Title page of "Health to the Soul" 

Di Gara, Venice, 1584 357 

Dedication of De Pomis' Hebrew Dictionary to Pope 
Sixtus V 

Di Gara, Venice, 1587 361 

Title page of Cordovero's "Sweet Light" 

Di Gara, Venice, 1587 365 

Title page of Mashal Hakadmoni 

Meir Parenzo, Venice, 1546 369 

Printer's mark of Alvise Bragadini 373 

A typical Bragadini ornament 375 

From Yalkut Shimeoni 

Bragadini, Venice, 1566 379 

From Mashal Hakadmoni 

Meir Parenzo, Venice, 1546 383 

Title page of "Thrones of the House of David" 

Rossi, Verona, 1646 389 

Title page of "A token for Good" 

Concio, Chieri, 1627 393 

Title page of "Zophenat Paaneah" 

Martinelli, Venice, 1661 399 



[xvii] 




Printer's mark of Gerson Soncino, Rimini 



CHAPTER I. 

INTRODUCTORY. 

Jewish Historiography — Jews of Italy — History of He- 
brew Typography — The "Holy Work" of Printing — Guten- 
berg and the Jews — Legendary Antiquity of Printing — 
Hebrew Types at Avignon, 1444 — Schweinheim and Pan- 
nartz at Subiaco — The Benedictines. 

THE history of the Jews has not yet been ade- 
quately presented, for the sources whence 
alone sound information is obtainable have been 
made accessible only in recent times. Modern 
Christian scholarship has scarcely touched upon 
the history of the Jews of the Christian Era and 
it is only within the last century that Jewish 
scholars have turned their attention to an histori- 
cal consideration of their people. Before the nine- 
teenth century neither Jewish nor Christian scholar- 
ship could do justice to the subject for in addition 
to lack of sufficient knowledge, scholars were in- 
fluenced by conceptions which, though different in 
origin and theory, led to the same paradoxical 
conclusion, namely, that since the destruction of 
the temple at Jerusalem the Jews had no history. 
Jewish scholars conceived the life of the Jews in 
their dispersion throughout the nations of the 
world as a punishment for "on account of our sins 
have we been exiled from our country and taken 
far away from our land."* Christian scholarship 

* From the Mussaf prayer on New Year's Day, see Dembitz 
"Jewish Services in Synagogue and Home", Phila. 1898, p. ISO, 
where the author says that this prayer "is one of the first banished 
wherever men deal boldly with the liturgy." 

[1] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

went a step further and considered the dispersion 
as a punishment visited on the Jews because of their 
rejection of Jesus and explained their partial pres- 
ervation by the legend of the Wandering Jew, 
which, translated into the language of theology, 
signified that the Jew was preserved as a wanderer 
on the face of the earth as a living witness to the 
truth of Christianity. 

When the discoveries of the great explorers, 
the Renaissance of letters and art and the Prot- 
estant Reformation broadened the outlook of 
men, a new conception of Jewish history was made 
possible. Scepticism and heresy made great 
breaches in the old entrenchments of religion and 
as soon as the new invading forces found them- 
selves securely established they subjected the 
entire wealth of ideas of the olden time to re- 
examination and revision. The literary remains 
of annalists and chroniclers were studied anew 
from a point of view that represented the interest 
of men in the real things of life rather than in 
those alleged truths that had so long been con- 
sidered as alone worthy of acquisition. Preceded 
by some minor attempts Jacob Christian Basnage, 
a French Protestant, produced the first history of 
the Jews during the Christian Era, a work that 
remained the best of its kind until Jewish historiog- 
raphy of the nineteenth century began. 

One of the results of the political emancipa- 
tion of the Jews at the end of the eighteenth cen- 
tury was the development of their historic con- 

[2] 



INTRODUCTORY 



sciousness. True, they had never lacked the 
strongest feeling of solidarity, which had led to 
organized resistance against attempts made to 
surpress their nationality, but these sentiments 
of national and racial solidarity served only to 
stimulate their religious faith and keep alive their 
love of Zion. The scant chronicles of the middle 
ages were mere genealogies, martyrologies and 
records of persecutions ; * the loftier sentiments 
of the hterati in the philosophical, theological and 
poetic literature expressed on the one hand the 
contrition of a broken people who believed them- 
selves punished for their sins by their Father in 
Heaven, on the other their longing for a return to 
the Promised Land, if only to rest in its sacred 
soil.f 

Political emancipation, with its gift of civil 
rights, transmuted into an intellectual concept the 
emotional sentiment that had inspired and sus- 

*Such as Abraham ibn Daud's "Book of Tradition" (Sefer Hakab- 
balah), Abraham Zacuto's "Book of Genealogies" (Sefer Yuhasin), 
Joseph Hacohen's "Chronicles of the Kings of France and Turkey" 
(Sefer Dibre Hayaraim leraalkhe Zarfat umalkhe bet Ottoman Hato- 
gar) and "Vale of Tears" (Emek Habakha), David Gans' "Branch of 
David" (Zemah David), Gedaliah ibn Yahya's "Chain of Tradition" 
(Shalshelet Hakabbalah) and Judah ibn Verga's "Rod of Judah" 
(Shebet Yehudah). 

t "How can Judah forget Judah? 

All is emptiness compared with my love for thee, 

Until I enter thy gates with thanksgiving. 

Where I long to abide, . . 

That I may prepare my grave in thy land." 
From a poem of Judah Halevi, quoted by Edelman and Dukes 
"Treasures of Oxford" London 1851, p. 51. 



[3: 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

tained the Jewish nation throughout the centuries 
of its dispersion. The Jew released from the Ghetto 
and made a part of the state became susceptible to 
the influences that were awake in Europe. While 
the tendency of the newly released Jew was to 
disregard his national heritage and with ardent 
patriotism to identify himself with his new-found 
mother country, he was likewise strongly influenced 
by the wave of nationalism that broke over Europe 
with the fall of Napoleon. For the first time since 
their dispersion the Jewish people became con- 
scious of the fact that their records and institutions, 
preserved for centuries, formed a substantial basis 
for an account of their history, and we find the 
great pioneers of Jewish historiography contem- 
poraries of the leaders of the political movements 
that unified Italy and Germany and established 
the independence of Greece. The histories of 
Jost, Graetz and Cassel are monuments of vast 
learning and splendid plan, but their achievement 
is insufficient, for they attempted nothing less com- 
prehensive than a history of the Jews from the 
beginnings to their own times. Their great con- 
temporaries Zunz, Rapaport, Steinschneider and 
others devoted themselves on the other hand to 
the more fruitful work of discovering and present- 
ing the sources of history. In this field an ever 
increasing number of scholars are preparing the 
ground for histories of the Jews in the lands of 
their dispersion from which there shall ultimately 
be written a great universal history wherein the 

[4] 



INTRODUCTORY 

t 



last two thousand years of the Hfe of this people 
may find adequate expression. 

The story of the Jews of Italy has never even 
been attempted. The Jews of Spain have had 
their Amador de los Rios, the Jews of Portugal 
their Kayserling; the Jews of Italy still await their 
historian. We have such medieval chronicles as 
Abraham Zacuto's "Book of Genealogies", and 
Joseph Ha-Cohen's "Vale of Tears"; but no 
Vasari has recounted the lives of Jewish literary 
artists, no Guicciardini has unravelled the threads 
of ghetto histories, no Machiavelli has analyzed 
the motives of their leaders. Even the chroniclers 
are far too few, the biographers entirely lacking, 
for Jewish writers were concerned with matters of 
the spirit rather than of the body; they recorded 
the ideas rather than the lives of men. Their 
writings contain none of those detailed descrip- 
tions and personal touches that make the heroes 
of Plutarch and Suetonius live again for us, the 
looks of the man, his habits, his way of speech, his 
experiences and opinions; all those details that 
give living interest to the flitting shade of his 
memory. By the flickering rush light of a stray 
reference, through a title page or colophon, an 
approbation or introduction, we may catch a 
glimpse of the man himself, but the real records, 
if any there be, from which his personal history 
might be constructed, lie hidden away in the dusty 
nooks of unvisited libraries. If this be true even 
of many of the great men of Italian Jewry, how 

[5] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

much more so of the humbler craftsmen whose 
Uves are less heroic in outline, less picturesque in 
achievement. 

The impression seems to prevail that the Italian 
Jews were an insignificant factor in European 
Jewish life, an impression due, no doubt, to the 
fact that modern historical scholarship found its 
greatest development among the Jews of central 
Europe, and occupied itself, most naturally, with 
the history of its own communities. Within the 
last twenty-five years the lamp of historical 
scholarship has commenced to illumine the dark- 
ness of forgotten corners of libraries and archives, 
of synagogues and cloisters, of ducal and episcopal 
palaces, where the records of the trials and wan- 
derings of the Jews of Italy have lain in an ob- 
scurity no less profound than that which conceals 
the mortal remains of the heroes of these Odyssies.* 

The instinct for culture and classical tradition 
never died out among the Jews of Italy. They 
cultivated the Hebrew, Italian and Latin litera- 
tures, and their thirst for knowledge was turned 
into every channel open to them. They mingled 
in the learned and polite society of the Courts and 
participated in the highest culture of the times as 

* It is significant that when some of the monasteries were secular- 
ized in Naples in 1860, the government of Italy came into the possession 
of books and manuscripts, said to be of great value, relating to Hebrew 
antiquities. (Hebraische Bibliographie 4 : 70). The Jewish Chronicle 
of London, quoting the 'Educatore Israelitico', states that a congre- 
gational library was discovered in the town of Pitiliano, an obscure 
place in Tuscany. (Heb. Bib. 4 : 119). 

[6] 



INTRODUCTORY 



long as they could elude the jealous eye of the 
Church. Since the fourteenth century they had 
attempted to establish congregational libraries, 
but the constant persecution to which they were 
subjected, and the ever grasping hand of the In- 
quisitor, made it impossible to maintain such 
collections until 1767, when Mantua appears as 
the first of the Italian cities to establish a perma- 
nent communal library. 

From these record rooms and libraries preserved 
by Christian and Jew, lips long silent in the dust 
may speak again to tell us the story of sorrows 
and tribulations withstood and outlived, of am- 
bitions vaulting to the skies but thwarted by the 
bounds of intolerance, of thoughts surpressed that 
might have leavened the life of a generation, of 
impulses seeking to do the work of the world but 
forced to expend themselves within the narrow 
limits of the ghetto. In a certain sense it is true 
that the history of the Jews of the dispersion is a 
history of arrested growth, of dwarfed develop- 
ment. Although their power and skill were used 
by princes and ecclesiastics, no decent public 
acknowledgment could be made of it. The Church 
took away from the Jews what individual church- 
men often gladly gave them, honor, wealth and 
station. To-day the instinctive liberality of the 
Italian character, nurtured by a most ancient and 
unbroken tradition of culture, has given to the 
Jews, freed from ecclesiastical restrictions, an equal 
station as citizens. It is sufficient to say that the 



7] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Jew in Italy, without being obliged to give up his 
affiliation with the synagogue, participates in the 
highest councils of state, presides at its great uni- 
versities, serves as commander-in-chief of all of the 
armies of the nation, and sits in the chair of the 
chief magistracy of the Eternal City. 

The history of Hebrew typography is an im- 
portant auxiliary to the study of Jewish history* 
for it reflects the degree of culture, the scope of 
interest and the physical and intellectual activities 
of the people. The mere outward form of the book 
will often give significant hints to the student. In 
the books issued by the early Italian Hebrew presses 
the quality of the paper, the shining lustre of the 
ink, the artistic form of the letters, the broad spac- 
ing and margins, reflect a life of comparative ease 
and security in the most cultured of all modern 
lands. In the later books we may read the vicis- 
situdes of life in the gradual degeneration of the 
art of Hebrew printing, as well as in the change in 
the character of the works produced, for trials and 
tribulations soon cut a people off from the need 
and enjoyment of the higher and more varied 
forms of literature and throw them back to the 
prayer book, where their sorrows may find ex- 
pression and consolation. Following a period of 
peace came a time of despair when the Jews of 
Italy felt the unrestrained fury of mobs, drank the 
insidious poison distilled by clerical fanaticism, 
and were ground under the heels of the soldiers of 

* Ersch & Gruber 28: 21. 

[8] 



INTRODUCTORY 



Emperor and Pope. Now and then they enjoyed 
a temporary respite through the kindly influence 
of cultured friends of learning and humanity, but 
on the whole their lives were tragic with a woe 
unutterable. 




In the Scriptoriuin 

All this appears when we review the produc- 
tions of the Italian presses from the day when in 
the reign of Pope Sixtus IV the first Hebrew 
books saw the light, to the day when in the reign 
of Pope Pius VII, Napoleon's cannon tore wide 
breaches in the walls of obscurantism and blew 
the freshening blasts of new thought into the 

[9] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

moldy retreats of moribund intolerance. The old 
Christian and Jewish printers called their art a 
"holy work."* We moderns are apt to smile at the 
application of the word "holy" to the productions 
of the press, for apart from the nature of many 
modern books, scarcely to be denominated holy by 
even the most careless critic, holy things, as a rule, 
do not exist for us at all. We are rapidly losing 
the Anglo-Saxon concept of halig, — perfect; com- 
plete ; free from blemish ; as well as the Roman con- 
cept of sacer, something apart or hallowed. The 
levelling tendencies of our day, one of the results of 
a too generous application of the evolutionary phil- 
osophy, assume on the one hand that nothing is per- 
fect, and on the other, that nothing is privileged. 
Holy things are confused with religious charlatan- 
ism and the narrowness of outworn creeds, and 
therefore held in contempt. It is only in the 
cemeteries that we find a survival of the old notion 
in the inscription: "Sacred to the memory of", 
and even this hallowed ground which of old was 
under the protection of spirits and gods, is now 
cut up into public highways at the command of 
traffic. For our fathers literature was a holy 
thing, and the writer a man inspired; nor was 
every one permitted to desecrate the sacred art 
of writing by using it to set down his own un- 
worthy thoughts; and they called printing a 
"holy work" for its mission, like that of the pen, 
was to teach both old and new knowledge. " With- 

* Ersch & Gruber 28: 22. 

[10] 



INTRODUCTORY 



out the press," said Joseph Teomim, " the law 
would have been forgotten." * 

The manner in which the old books were pro- 
duced, the infinite care devoted to the perfection 
of details, and the loving interest with which the 
work was brought ever nearer to perfection, con- 
trast broadly with modern methods, which, always 
excepting books specially prepared for booklovers, 
produce great masses of material inferior in style, 
contemptible in thought, bearing the signs of 
crudeness and haste and the desire for a speedy 
monetary equivalent. Considering this contrast 
we have another point of view from which to 
understand the use of the phrase "holy work" by 
the old printers; it was the medieval equivalent 
of "the old article of Jewish faith, that things done 
delightfully and rightly were always done by the 
help and in the spirit of God."t 



* Ersch & Gruber 28 : 22 n. 13. 

t Ruskin : Praeterita III. 1. "But now that I had a missal of my 
own and could touch its leaves and turn, and even here and there under- 
stand the Latin of it, no girl of seven years old with a new doll is prouder 
or happier; but the feeling was something between the girl's with the 
doll and Aladdin's in a new spirit-slave to build palaces for him with 
jewel windows. For truly a well illuminated missal is a fairy cathedral 
full of painted windows, bound together to carry in one's pocket, with 
the music and the blessing of all its prayers besides. And then followed, 
of course, the discovery that all beautiful prayers were Catholic, all 
wise interpretations of the Bible, Catholic; and every manner of 
Protestant written service whatsoever, either insolently altered cor- 
ruptions, or washed-out and ground-down rags and debris of the great 
Catholic collects, litanies and songs of praise." A comparison of the 
old Hebrew prayer book with its modern substitute, tempts me to 
cite this opinion of Ruskin with much approval. 



[11] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Different from their conception, yet equally 
noble, was that of a later generation, which looking 
back at the work of the press, judged it by what 
it had accomplished. How it flooded the lowlands 
of ignorance with the waters of knowledge ; how it 
slowly and surely raised the level of enlightenment 
and morality in Europe; how it destroyed the 
foundations of that paternal form of government, 
which while in theory not different from modern 
socialistic propaganda, seeking to do all things 
for the good of all men, was in fact suppressing the 
will of the many and holding them in subjection 
and ignorance in order that the few might prosper 
and rule. 

As to the inventor of the art of printing, the 
contending claims of Gutenberg, Koster and others 
have not yet been finally adj udicated. David Gans, 
whose statement on the origin of Hebrew printing 
in Venice led many into error as to the actual date 
of the first Hebrew press in Italy, gives credit to 
Johannes Gutenberg of Strasburg as the inventor 
of printing at Mainz, in the year 1440, "in the first 
year of the reign of the pious Emperor Frederick." 
In a humble way the Jews were connected with 
the beginnings of the art for they helped Gutenberg 
to finance his enterprise. 

The Jews played a very important part in the 
finances of the middle ages. Cut off in most 
cases from other avenues of enterprise, they were 
obliged to resort to finance for their livelihood, 
and their wealth made them useful to prince and 

[12] 



INTRODUCTORY 



pope as bankers and collectors of taxes. The 
Canonical law having high regard for the salvation 
of Christian souls would not permit interest to be 
taken for loans of money, a restriction that of 
course did not apply to Jews who were without 
the pale of the Church. In order to prevent the 
money thus accumulated by Jews from remaining 
in infidel hands, the Church from time to time 
confiscated their means and by this indirect method; 
which commended itself to the moral sense of -the 
time, brought back good Christian money into the 
treasury of the Church for the purpose of pro- 
moting God's kingdom on earth in the various 
ways well known to the ecclesiastical masters of 
Europe.* 

When Gutenberg needed money, he applied to 
his former associate in Strasburg, Andrea Dmitze- 
hen, who negotiated a loan from the Jews of 
Ehnheim, an insignificant village in Alsace, and 
his associate, John Fust, another candidate for the 
honors of the invention of printing, likewise bor- 
rowed money from the Jews, and advanced it to 

Gutenberg.! 

After the art had been once established, con- 
temporary scholars sought to find a most ancient 
origin for it, in recognition of its high value and 
in profound reverence for its accomplishments.! 
For, as it was a noble and most excellent thing, it 

* Jew. Enc. 12 : 390. 

tLoew "Graphische Requisiten'' Leipzig 1870, 1 : 189. 

J Ersch & Gruber 28 : 22. 



[13 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

must necessarily, according to the workings of the 
medieval mind, have been known to the best and 
most excellent men who lived in ancient times. 
In the 19th chapter of the Book of Job, the 
martyred patriarch says, "Oh, that my words 
were now written. Oh, that they were printed in 
a book; that they were graven with an iron pen 
and lead in the rock forever." What could this 
possibly have meant, except that the Patriarch 
Job knew all about the art of printing, and Dr. 
Abraham Portaleone, distinguished equally as phy- 
sician and scholar, in his book entitled "Shields 
of the Mighty" (p. 183 b.) expresses his contempt 
for the ignorance of his contemporaries in ascribing 
a modern origin to this ancient art.* "I, indeed," 
he says, "am not able to restrain myself from ac- 
cusing all the sages of our time of error for it is 
true that they believe the art of printing to be a 
new thing, unknown in former ages, and discovered 
only one hundred years ago, as they say ; and they 
neither know nor understand that printing has 
been known to us for hundred and thousands of 
years, almost back to the time of the creation." 
Leaving the realm of fancy and taking our stand 
upon the ascertained facts, we find the beginning 
of Hebrew printing in Italy, where the first dated 
Hebrew books appear in 1475, about thirty-five 
years after the invention of the art and ten years 
after its introduction into Italy. Further research 

* De Rossi "Annales Hebraeo-typographici Sec. XV." Parma 
1795, p. VII. 

ri4i 



INTRODUCTORY 



and discovery may establish an earlier beginning 
for Hebrew printing for as early as 1444 we hear 
of Hebrew types in Avignon, and there is some 
record of a transaction between Procop Waldvogel 
of Prague, and a Jew named Davin of Caderousse, 
whereby Waldvogel taught Davin the science and 
art of printing, and bound himself to give him 
twenty-seven matrices for Hebrew letters; in re- 
turn for instruction in the art of dyeing. Davin 
broke his contract, and he was compelled to re- 
deliver the matrices and to agree to keep the art 
of printing secret within a radius of thirty miles.* 
Quite recently the suggestion has been made that 
Spain may contest the primacy of Italy in Hebrew 
typography,! but it is very doubtful whether such 
theses will ever be supported by indisputable and 
unambiguous facts. 

While Thomas de Torquemada, in an odor of 
sanctity, was glooming in the Dominican monastery 
of Segovia, preparing himself for that high ofifice of 
Inquisitor General of Castile and Leon, through 
which he became the incarnation of hell on earth 
for thousands of so-called heretics, his kinsman, 
Johannes de Turrecremata, was called from his 
priory at Toledo to become Abbot of Santa 
Scholastica at Subiaco, in the hills, forty miles 
from Rome. Even after he was elevated to the 
cardinalate by Pope Eugenius IV, Turrecremata 
preferred to spend most of his time amidst the 

* Z. H. B. 8 : 46. 

t R. E. J. 1907 p. 246; J. Q. R. 20 : 527. 



[15] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

precious treasures of learning of his monastery 
and in the company of his monks, among whom 
were some Germans who had seen or heard of the 
Work of the men of Mainz, Frankfurt, and Stras- 
burg, whose new art was slowly making itself felt 
among the learned. 

Among the Christian printers driven from the 
City of Mainz after its capture by the warrior 
Archbishop Adolph of Nassau in 1462 were Con- 
rad Schweinheim and Arnold Pannartz, who in 
the year 1464 knocked at the friendly gates of the 
monastery of Santa Scholastica, and were received 
with open arms by the abbot and his monks, and 
thus began the "holy work" in Italy. 

The real meaning of the press was little seen 
by the church whose rule it was destined to over- 
throw. The Cardinal-abbot gladly opened the 
doors of his monastery to the printers, and later 
took them to the Pope under whose most holy 
patronage they continued their work.* 

In time the eyes of the churchmen were opened, 
and it was seen that this instrument, which they 
fondly hoped had been fashioned for further pro* 
moting their rule on earth, had become the weapon 
of the devil and was spreading heresy among the 
faithful, and with the thunders of excommunica- 
tion, the fires of autosdafe, the scissors and ink of 
the censors, they vainly strove to undo the work 
of the press and to put men back into intellectual 

* Putnam "Books and their makers during the Middle Ages" 
N. Y. and London 1897, 1 : 404. 

[16] 



INTRODUCTORY 



leading strings. That time had gone by forever. 
The new thought was given wide expression by 
the press and the fairy tale popular literature of 
the Middle Ages was supplanted by matter better 
adapted to the needs of men. For the Jew, how- 
ever, there was no Renaissance — no new birth 




Tte pioneer press 

with its implication of death and resurrection. 
Jewish literary tradition had never died but was 
flourishing vigorously in the times of the greatest 
intellectual darkness of all Europe. The Christian 
printer who published Greek classics was intro- 
ducing a new element into the intellectual life of 
his time; the Jewish printer who reprinted the 
philosophy of Albo, Maimonides or Gersonides 

[17] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

was merely enabling what was already well known 
to be circulated more freely and at less expense. 
The Christian printers gradually introduced a 
non-Christian literature very different from the 
martyrologies and saintly biographies dear to the 
Middle Ages; the Jewish printers made no breach 
in the tradition of Jewish learning, but merely 
made accessible books studied by generations of 
scholars. 

Subiaco is one of the delights of the dilettante. 
Lying on a lovely hillside, surmounted by one of 
the castellated summer residences of the Pope, 
surrounded by ancient forests and overlooking a 
sparkling waterfall, it has long been the gathering 
place for artists and idlers. Its real significance, 
however, lies in the monastery of Santa Scholas- 
tica, founded by the Benedictines and named in 
honor of the sister of their patron saint. In this 
monastery, so appropriately named, peaceful monks 
dwelt for centuries, disturbed at times by the 
soldiery of Emperor and Pope, who used Italy as 
a playground for their bloody games of war, but 
devoted always to prayer, labor and learning, 
copying and recopying thousands of precious 
manuscripts of classical antiquity, until the dark- 
ness of military barbarism and religious decadence 
should vanish before the dawn of a new day for 
literature and learning in Italy. In this place 
St. Benedict began his monastic career at the be- 
ginning of the seventh century, and stamped it 
with the characteristic that it shares with the 

[18] 



INTRODUCTORY 



famous monastery of Monte Cassino as the home 
of learning in Italy; most appropriately, therefore, 
in the whirlgig of time, eight hundred and fifty 
years later it witnessed the establishment of the 
printing press in Italy. 

A word about these Benedictine monks, who 
saved Italy from intellectual barbarism — the 
Christian Scribes who wrote and copied the books 
in which was deposited the precious residuum of 
the slow process of the thoughts of the generations. 
Remembering the opinion held by the early Chris- 
tians of the Jewish Scribes, the recorders and ex- 
pounders of law and tradition,* an opinion reflect- 
ing the hatred of the ignorant zealot for the accu- 
mulated wisdom of the learned, we shall not fail 
to appreciate the service of the Christian Scribes 
in saving literature from the hands of their more 
zealous and ignorant fellows. The tradition of the 
Benedictines permeated all the monasteries of 
Europe. In northern Europe the monks preserved 
chiefly the religious literature, but in Italy th6 
traditions of Roman and Greek culture had never 
quite died out, and in the monasteries many a 
high-strung soul found rest and happiness in pre- 
serving this classical tradition by copying with 
loving care the best works of antiquity.f Thus 
the pure fount of Castalia was kept fresh from 
generation to generation until its waters flowed 
out of the narrow confines of the monastery into 

* Matt. XXIII passim, 
t Putnam 1 :2S. 



[19 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the broad river of the general life and helped to 
restore to rnen that freedom of thought and dignity 
of intellect which were the heritage of the Renais- 
sance from Ancient Greece. "To take an illus- 
tration from St. Benedict's own beloved Subiaco, 
the work of his disciples has been like one of the 
great aqueducts of the valley of the Arno — some- 
times carried underground for centuries through 
the obscurity of unremembered existence, some- 
times emerging to the daylight and borne high 
upon the arcade of noble lives, but equally through 
all its course bearing the precious stream of ancient 
thought from the far-off hills of time into the 
humming and crowded cities of modern civili- 
zation." * 

■ *Hodgkm4 : 497-8. 



[2o: 



CHAPTER II. 

THE PIONEERS (1475-1482). 

Origin of the Hebrew Press — The Work of De Rossi — 
Abraham b. Garton of Reggio di Calabria — Dr. Meshullam 
Cusi of Pieve di Sacco — The Garden of Pico delta Mirandola 
— Dr. Abraham Conat of Mantua — Estellina Conat — The 
Scribe and the Printer — Abraham the Dyer of Pesaro — Duke 
Ercole of Ferrara — The Hebrew Press at Ferrara — The Press 
of Caravita at Bologna — Jewish Booksellers at the Uni- 
versities. 

WHENCE came the first Hebrew printed 
books? Not from proud Rome or Venice, 
where Jews were many and strong, not from 
renowned Lisbon, whose public squares were 
as yet undefiled by the smoking embers of the 
autodafe, not from castellated Prague, metropolis 
of the north, nor from Ferrara or Mantua pros- 
pering in the south. The Hebrew press was born 
in a marshy hamlet among the Venetian lagoons 
or in an earthquake-torn city by the Straits in 
farthest Calabria. It was in Italy that Hebrew 
printing first began, in Italy where European 
science found its new birth and where Jewish 
learning and Jewish men so often found a refuge 
from persecution. And here, where the cradle 
of the Hebrew press stood, it attained its fullest 
and most perfect maturity. Although Germany 
may rightly claim the honor of this great inven- 
tion, it was at that time, by reason of its coarse 
manners, unfit to cultivate and develop this or any 

[21] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

other art and to create an atmosphere in which 
they could flourish and come to perfection. Italy, 
like Germany, saw her cities sacked and given over 
to murder, rapine and pillage, but her condottieri 
graced their leisure hours with the beauties of 
literature, painting and architecture. The quick- 
ening interest in culture for its own sake that 
characterized the fifteenth century in Italy com- 
bined with the Italian decorative instinct and 
skill in all kinds of artistic handicraft, made Italy 
the land of all lands where the new art could yield 
its richest fruits. In Spain and Portugal Hebrew 
typography was throttled in its cradle by the hand 
of ecclesiastical bigotry. In Turkey it flourished 
though in less perfect form under the benevolent 
protection of the Crescent. Rapidly the new art 
spread through Germany and the Slavic lands, 
through Holland France and England, in all the 
great cities of the world, even in old time-worn 
Jerusalem;* but for beauty and artistic perfection 
we must always go back to the productions of the 
early Italian printers. 

Of the men that saw the first cradle books, 
precious incunabula, fresh and new from the press, 
we know the names and after that, nothing. 
Abraham ben Garton ben Isaac of Reggio di Cala- 
bria, and MeshuUam Cusi of Pieve di Sacco, have 
inscribed their names in the single book that each 
of them has left us. Who were they, of what fam- 
ily, what led them to engage in the "holy work," 

* Ersch & Gruber 28 :23. 

[22] 



THE PIONEERS 



who were their patrons and what their success? 
Perhaps the Inquisition has forever buried the 
answer in the ashes of its fires, perhaps there lies 
some sybiUine leaf in the darkness of an archive 
from which some future searcher may yet wrest 
its secret. 

Giambernardo de Rossi of Parma, learned 
professor of Oriental languages at its university, 
is to be reckoned among those righteous strangers 
•within the gates whom the Jews should hold in 
affectionate remembrance. While others pursued 
gaberdined Jews through hooting mobs, and ex- 
acted a golden tribute in return for scant mercy, 
while others preached from pulpit and rostrum 
against the perfidious tribe of Israel, de Rossi sat 
in his library and with loving care, as though him- 
self of the seed of Abraham, studied the words of 
the sages of Israel. With scholar's care and 
lover's patience, this noble Christian sought the 
cradle books of the Hebrew presses, and he has 
left a lasting memorial in the splendid books, 
wherein he has deposited the result of his research 
in the history of the incunabula from 1475 to 1540 
and the annals of the Hebrew presses of Ferrara, 
Sabbioneta and Cremona. Dying, he bequeathed 
his collection of books to the Grand Ducal Library 
at Parma, where among his rare and beautiful 
Hebraica there lies a time-stained, tear-stained and 
much mutilated volume,* whose one hundred and 
sixteen pages can tell a tale much sadder than 

* Jew. Enc. 6: S7S, Fiirst, Bibl. Jud. 11: 80. 



[23] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

stands printed there in the clear type which Abra- 
ham ben Garton ben Isaac set in Reggio di Calabria 
in 1475.* Alone of all its brethren this precious 
book survives. A kind fate sent it into de Rossi's 
loving hand; with him it lay in safety until it 
found its last resting place under the jealous 
guardian eye of the librarian of the Grand Duke 
of Parma. Time alone would not have destroyed 
its fellows, but man, enthroned in papal chair, 
or cowled in monkish habit reached forth his 
destroying hand and they have all disappeared. 
The flames of funeral pyres whose victims were 
the books of Israel, blazing in all the market 
places of Italy, left, of the all too small edition of 
this precious commentary on the Pentateuch, first 
written by Rashi seven hundred years ago, this 
single copy to help us remember that there was 
once a man named Abraham ben Garton and that 
he was a printer in Reggio. f 

While Abraham ben Garton was showing his 
wealthy Jewish patrons, the silk merchants of 
Reggio, the first of all books printed in their city 
another printer was pulling the sheets from a 
press in the village of Pieve di Sacco. Separated 
by the whole length of Italy they stood, the one 
at the Straits of Messina, the other almost within 
sight of the Campanile of St. Mark, equally zealous 

' * 10 Adar S235— 17 February 1475 Ersch & Gruber 28 : 34. 
Jew. Enc. article "Incunabula" gives the date as February 5th. 

t He probably lived in the Jewish quarter of the town, which 
gave its name to the nearest city gate, the Porta della Judeca. Fuma- 
galli 323. 

[24] 



THE PIONEERS 



to spread and multiply knowledge among Israel, 
by that new process whereby the immehiorial 
impulse "to make books, many, without ^nd, of 
the books of the law of God" should find a new 
and better method of expression. While the Jews 
of Trent were passing days, and nights of terror, 
facing the blind fury of the Franciscan monk 
Bernardino da Feltre, whose insane fanaticism 
made a saint of a drowned peasant child; while 
Bishop Hindernach was forging the evidence 
which was to prove that Jews had killed the boy 
at Passover, and that as Saint Simon his poor 
little body would do miracles and be forever there- 
after held in holy reverence; not a hundred miles 
away, one hot summer day, MeshuUam Cusi ben 
Moses Jacob thanked God that he had been per- 
mitted to finish part of the printing of the four 
sections of the great code of law "the pillars" 
which upheld the fallen hut of David in the land 
of the stranger.* 

In the press the enthusiastic printer, his senses 
not yet dulled by familiarity with its simple 
mechanism, perceived a new revelation, and in 
the colophon of his work he tells us what the press 
said to him: — 

Wisdom am I, and crown of all science, 

Hidden am I, a mystery to all. 

Without pen stroke, my imprint stands patent, 

* "The Four Pillars," by Jacob b. Asher; small folio; 28 Tamrauz 
S23S, — 3 July 1475. Ersch & Gruber 28 : 34. Asulai "Shem Hage- 
dolim" 2 : 48. 



[25; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Without scribe, lo! a volume appears. 

One instant, and ink o'er me flowing, 

Without guide lines, straight stands every word. 

Do you wonder at Deborah, the mighty. 

Who ruled with the pen of the scribes? 

Had she seen me displaying my power, 

She had taken me, a crown for her head. 

The zealous craftsman did not live to see his 
work completed, but died after the third part was 
finished, leaving his sons to piously complete the 
work.* Why did Meshullam Cusi ben Moses Jacob, 
physician as well as printer, print his books in 
Pieve? Was he one of the many learned and 
distinguished alumni of the great University of 
Padua, which reared its walls scarcely ten miles 
away, and did he seek seclusion here to practice 
medicine and printing, undisturbed by the life 
of the greater city. Was he driven into exile 
by Christian persecution, professional rivalry, or 
personal misfortune? Did the prohibition of 1455, 
by which Paduan Jewish bankers were deprived 
of their business, send him to Pieve, with others 
who there transacted the affairs forbidden within 
the walls of Padua? f Was he among those who 
were left in Pieve after the Jewish money brokers 
had been expelled? J We may stand on the high 
road that passes through the village of Pieve and 
look wonderingly toward Padua or toward the 
sea. There is no answer to our questioning and 

* Berliner, "Einfluss," 2. 
t Jew. Enc. 10: 56. 
t Ibid. 

[26] 



THE PIONEERS 



beyond these few simple recorded facts the Hfe 
of MeshuUam Cusi passes from the narrow 
realms of history into the limitless domain of 
imagination. 

Unconscious of their own importance, these 
ancient pioneer scholar-printers neglected, as un- 
worthy of record, mere narrative, chronicle or 
gossip, which to us, bred in the atmosphere of 
historical research, would have proved of supreme 
importance. As expressed by a writer of the 
eighteenth century, "The reader will find just 
cause of wonder that this art, which has been 
styled the nurse and preserver of arts and science, 
should (if I may use the expression) be so forgetful 
of itself, as not to leave us the least sketch of its 
own history, the inventors being more ambitious 
of deserving than of purchasing praise."* A 
notable exception is found in the dedication of the 
works of St. Thomas Aquinas, published in 1480, 
where the famed Nicolas Jensen of Venice thus 
speaks of himself: — 

Nicholas Jensen gallicus vir 

imprimis catholicus: erga 

omnes gratus: beneficus: 

liberalis: verax: constans; 

pulcritudine: magnitudine: 

fidelitateque impremendi : 

in toto terrarum orbe: 

pace omnium dixerim: 

primus, t 

*S. Palmer "A General History of Printing" London 1733, p. 3. 
t Brown, "The Venetian Printing Press" N. Y. and London 1891, 
p. 18. 

[27] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Had the Jewish printers left us some memorial of 
their lives we should not now be guessing as to who 
was the first of them and in which city the art was 
first applied to Hebrew books. There are those 
who begin to think that perhaps Spain may yet 
be entitled to first place; there is the story of 
Davin of Caderousse as far back as 1444; there is 
the book of Peter Schwarz, of Eslingen,* printed 
in 1475 and containing Hebrew words. f These 
data give us a sense of doubt as to the finality of 
our verdict. But until this doubt is resolved we 
shall be content to remember Abraham ben Garton 
of Reggio, and Meshullam Cusi of Pieve as the 
first of the Hebrew printers. 

We leave the lowlands and pass over the moun- 
tains to Florence, the Florence of Lorenzo di 
Medici, of Poliziano and Ficino, of Michelangelo 
and Machiavelli, of Savonarola and Pico della 
Mirandola. The mere recital of these names calls 
to mind a period unsurpassed in splendor and in- 
terest. Count Giovanni Pico della Mirandola 
that handsome youth the Renaissance incarnate 
with its love of culture, of refinement, of beauty, 
was the centre of a radiant circle which attracted 
many a wandering Jewish scholar. { In his palace 

* "Contra Perfidis Judaeos de conditionibus veri Messiae." B. H. 
2 : 941. Schwarz is supposed to have been a Jewish apostate. Stobbe 
"Die Juden in Deutschland wahrend des Mittelalters " Braunschweig 
1866 p. 77. 

t Loew 1 : 190. 

t Pico was a student of the Cabbala and maintained that this 
esoteric Jewish discipline proved the divinity of Jesus. He collected 

[28] 



THE PIONEERS 



Jew and Christian, Moslem and Heathen met and 
discoursed, united by the common bond of culture 
and philosophy. Here the man of intellect found 
an always open door and here, nothing that was 
human was foreign. In the salons and gardens of 
Italian gentlemen the two great cultural elements 
the Hellenic and the Hebraic were united,* when 
the minds of men sought stimulus and refreshment 
beyond the narrow limits of medieval scholasticism. 
This union is typified in the Moses of Michelangelo. 
The great protagonist of the Jewish race, who ac- 
cording to Jewish tradition wore the triple crown 
of wisdom, of sovereignty and of priesthood, sits 
majestic in deathless marble carved by the greatest 
artist of the Renaissance, thrice crowned in paint- 
ing, in architecture and in sculpture. 

In the garden of the Count, one summer even- 
ing, three Jewish physicians were the centre of 
interest, brilliantly debating some abstruse, phil- 
osophic theme. Among the scholars present were 
Marsilio Ficino, who fortunately for us did not 
fail to make mention in a gossipy letter to his 
friend Domenico Beniveni, that he heard this de- 
bate between the Jewish physicians, Elias, Abra- 



Hebrew manuscripts. Zunz "Zur Gesch. u. Lit." Berlin 1845 p. 
523. He was a disciple of Elijah del Medigo who taught philosophy 
at Padua and Florence and violently opposed Cabbalism and of Yohanan 
Alemanno who as strongly supported it. Graetz 8 : 243. 

* Pico tried to harmonize the philosophy of Plato and Aristotle 
with the Cabbala and Neo-Platonism. Jew. Enc. 10:32. Messer 
Leon of Naples was the first to compare the language of Cicero and 
that of the Prophets and Psalmists. Graetz 8 : 240. 



[29] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

ham and Guglielmo.* Jewish physicians were to 
be found in the house of every nobleman, many 
a good Christian household was entrusted solely 
to their ministrations, and Pope, Cardinal and 
Prince received their potions only from a Jewish 
hand, from which they need not fear the poison 
which passed so often among Christian gentle- 
men.f Often indeed did the word of the Jewish 
physicians turn aside the wrath of prince or 
pontiff from some hapless ghetto, for they possessed 
"the key to the hearts of the great upon whom 
the fate of the Jews depends." So spake Don 
Isaac Abrabanel out of the fullness of his life of 
bitter experience. J 

Of these three debaters in the garden of Pico 
we know Elijah del Medigo, physician scholar 
and writer, and Guglielmo of Moncada a baptized 
Jew who translated the Koran for the Duke of 
Urbino.t And the third? Which of the three 
Abrahams who graced that circle, Abraham Farissol 
a favorite at the Courts of Ferrara and Florence, 
Abraham de Balmes one time physician to Cardinal 
Domenico Grimani or Abraham Conat of Mantua? 
We like to believe that it was the latter, a man 
who added to his professional eminence and philoso- 
phic mind the practical skill of the craftsman. 
For he was the founder of the Hebrew press at 
Mantua, and unique among all the printers he 

*R. E. J. 12 : 251. 
tGraetz 4: 407. 
J Graetz 4: 287. 
fH. B. 20: 124. 

[30] 



THE PIONEERS 



associated with him in his work, his wife EsteUina. 
A mere recital of the six books known to have been 
produced by his press from 1476 to 1480, with care 
and skill and grace, leads us into the heart of the 
man, to whom law travel history and exegesis, 
astronomy and rhetoric were equally dear: The 
legal code "Path of Life" * the traveler's tales of 
Eldad the Danite, the popular version of Josephus.f 
Rabbi Levi ben Gerson's commentary on the 
Pentateuch,! an astronomical table by Mordecai 
Finzi and "The Drippings of the Honeycomb," 
by Rabbi Judah ben Yehiel, the first Hebrew book 
published in the lifetime of its author.^ 

In 1471 Duke Lodovico had invited the learned 
and noble Doctor of Laws, Messer Pietro Adam de 



*6 June 1476. He also printed about one-third of the "Yore 
Deah," completed in the following year at Ferrara by Abraham the 
Dyer. Ersch & Gruber 38 : 34. 

t Yosippon. 

J Assisted by Abraham Jedidiah of Cologna (Cologne?) . 

If Alas, for the author of the "Drippings of the Honeycomb." He 
attempted to apply 'to Scripture the rules and terminology of classical 
rhetoric as found in the writings of Cicero and Quintilian. How could 
such heresy be countenanced? Rabbi Joseph Kolon, staunch pillar 
of traditionalism, soon took up the cudgels against the innovator. 
(Bacher "Hebr. Sprachwissenschaft" 101.) Hardly was the book 
finished when a quarrel with Kolon compelled the Duke of Mantua, 
Lodovico Gonzaga H., not Francesco (Jost 3 : 107) nor Joseph (Graetz 
8 : 2S2) to save himself from the importunities of the wrangling theo- 
logians, (Heilprin "Seder Hadorot" 235,) by exiling them both. Their 
quarrel was inevitable for Joseph Kolon represented the narrow dog- 
matism and pious zeal that characterized most of the scholars who had 
been trained on the inhospitable soil of Germany, whereas Judah ben 
Yehiel, better known as Messer Leon, born and bred in Southern Italy, 
expressed the culture, the philosophy, the classical taste and the free 
spirit of inquiry that flourished in the warmer and freer air of the South. 



[31] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Micheli, to establish a press in Mantua. He called 
in German workmen, probably from neighboring 
Ferrara, where a press had just been established 
by Belfort, and soon the Mantuan presses were at 
work under the charge of Pietro Adamo, as well 
as of the printers George and Paul Putzbach of 
Mainz, Thomas von Siebenburger of Hermanstadt 
and Johann Wurster of Kempten.* At one of 
these presses Conat caught the inspiration to print 
Hebrew books, and communicated it to his worthy 
help-meet, Estellina. She was no weak woman who 
left her husband to his labors and enjoyed the fruits 
of idleness; nor did she believe that woman's share 
in the labors of men exempted her from the duties 
of motherhood. She printed a book on her own 
account, no less important a work than the "Inves- 
tigationof the World," by Jedaiah Bedersi and in the 
colophon she writes, "I, Estellina, wife of my master 
my husband the honored Rabbi Abraham Conat, 
may he be blessed with children and may his days be 
prolonged. Amen! wrote this book 'Investigation 
of the World' with the aid of the youth Jacob 
Levi of Provence of Tarascon, may he live."t 
She "wrote" the book, as her husband said, "with 
many pens without the aid of miracle," for the 

* Fumagalli 200. 

t Women were employed as copyists of manuscripts. Dr. Schechr 
ter reports the following postscript in a manuscript or catalogue seen 
by him. "I beseech the reader not to judge me very harshly when he 
finds that mistakes have crept into this work; for when I was engaged 
in copying it God blessed me with a son, and thus I could not attend 
to my business properly." Schechter " Studies in Judaism" p. 264. 

[32] 



iwaws'SaaiTw rnosisayi-njriiwuna 

I'sans'Jinx; iS awannwnSisanjjrri 
c3^ wnuS pnisTS'cn ta nSxr lanisS 

■3133 rtrgv \K) nsn iM37»o ir.ns onwi 
T- -jarwi nSw mw inrn naonjHSi mp") 

n\s-^.-aWnyT:>T3ir)S3ny)n>iVn3n»3 
:«w jvB3Tpri yiB's vvv ^vo -wm:? ?i "s 
13 wwwSSriiJ^ 'swn niSt) SI nrvnym 

-,•010 "-TXBw? T'* ^^"0 "wi niSi 'Tsari 

WW tni33 Ton jratfinjinM IT 

T^-SrmS nta r3 lawo ra ^sz nsSo ipua 
rT» -^3? Ti 3r» "i^aS -jaS "i;pi5 o-i*3 
i^BrSa^rnraJi-isijni 'onr3pS'3B'psw 
•"^■3*iei~»;'jiTia3T)3ajS 3:n'n:pTP33 

■j-iTsy -pi o"S;i'»ioT'onp"Fw^'pi9y 
T93 TTiPr ova "1133-0 Jn"''t3»r>i7iij3rnS 
o'Sa"'! ot wnr iww I'jis T»3 0"! OTT^ 
lawS aTcro paSsSwoS Twin iwa"" 

ntSl O'^IAT) OT 'Onr 1W0 MT IW OT'03 

o**vni 0-1* tmr ^"^ ^Vaw *i33o - j sf' 
a'^jr nVsw 3'-n7ii »S'o o7r»3 OT3 wi 

nS'3193~nJ»10 31^313:3^3 ©"TwnP 

nz~a :*»3 niSsa too? 113* rjm 
1-ui3W3 3ni"t;i3"S'» i'n437i»;s3S 

•ITj;iCr3t)3S'TOT 



'!rr?'-"wiaaB3'Sn3ni3? 'i^taw* wsw 
S>1 J13S rnwTi.wi» ?3"n flS-o sxo 'ijn 
ifli "jiSa w "3 0-3 riA3 WTOrS tsmjSjw 
cnsoa TWs'^a'n wna narar wpU'S 

at^nSnnB ^S-i obts onsSni pa kto 
w? nwy hSi laSia'B' iwi rnpisp ns i«?) 

lia-S wi-ar JW n'wio 3"W z)hn tnrro 
jiras:' 3*"Wis i3:«3rinwo:iio»3''im 
•■W3WWW"'W"!'''3'i>)S'3 isS'Tpa 
t» WW wran Ji>i» inn ns ant n^aSiA 
•3S^W3nSn«a wanjiWBinayi'oirw* 

Titjat) 1J1T wn* 131 oiii-sn or wiwsra 
't^KS'a-wtyn's rtoiSn ^aViflaa 
' Ml yno 'sSi oip vJ ito 3TH njaa cceS 
V)3^:' o'S^s" oils rwinwimwi 0019 rrafv 

^^By^ja 3^sT^n1^v3at^ra^3nrall' 
•Mil 3isn 13 MinwnfJSB pSoS ^•TiwS 
isroSrjiSH'jBS'jiTOnaMBa a»n^'a 
onp nion «i mSsrtSi onjosTiiwp nopaS 
j^ "IT jinw Tin aSstf •rorjwsp •nsp'o 
•osSi irwSawjwuVjnwpnysffl'B' 
»(iwp» 'oxp iSn3 13 Bi»rr)'"3 in' cwS 
•inilnwV) in3*i3fl93JnnflvrSr3,iir 
bSo- 171 rar\S33i fn wm 'avs TtTsro 
oas'o "vii ym mupSi w^Vis-sa pw ^a 
nieDVxjraiSiisji-oinjirKcn ■par* wo 
!wr3~n«'i ■ii3*^nVcwo»"?^B"o 
P1S0 iwss mwn nir? j^i towi ouio Ta 
vni •)»y»3yi3T9v>ro's\nflnwn«j3a 
1133^ ariji" msnaSan a issn yvro 

^TOnoXJlS^IV^ in«0'113"3^0r?«1» 

ri3 tii3w 7iS WW oip3 isaS wisaVn^ 
•i3in yi3i o'SwiS on '3 rwraa jw'ipw* 
oSvn -p ytan tfn'X) nS pS "i^aa roa^ 
onion iToaSs nsjJ oSa o'laia wo 



A page of Gersonides' Commentary on the Pentateucn 

Conat, Mantua^ before 1480 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

art had not yet invented the word "printing" by 
which to define itself.* Abraham the Dyer was 
the first to use the term in 1477 at Ferrara.f 

The printed book was still a mere copy of the 
manuscript J an imitation of the slower process 
of the scribe, which roused the ire of the book- 
lovers, who saw in its cheaper and more numerous 
products a vitiating influence on the penman's 
art. "What hired amanuensis can be equal to the 
scribe who loves the words that grow under his 
hand, and to whom an error or indistinctness in 
the text is more painful than a sudden darkness or 
an obstacle across his path? And even these 

* According to ancient tradition, the correction of a single error 
in a book justified the corrector in saying that he wrote it. Blau 
"Althebr. Bucherwesen" p. 187. 

t In the very first decades of Jewish typography Hebrew termin- 
ology had already been perfected in the form in which it has remained 
to the present day. The word "defus"' from the Greek "tupos" was 
used as early £is the year 1477 by Abraham the Dyer. This word 
was already known in Mishnic Hebrew in a modified form, and its 
verbal forms, the obsolete "dafas" and the common "hidfis" meaning 
respectively "to print" and "to have printed", first appeared in the 
sixteenth century. In the edition of the Psalms 1477 this word ap- 
pears to have still retained its old meaning of "form" or "shape". 
The verse in which it appears, "bidfuse haotiot" should be translated 
"through the form of letters". (See also Talmud Pesahim 37 a.) 
Another Hebraized form of the Greek word "tupos" is the word "tofes" 
which also appears in the Mishna, meaning "formula". This as used 
in the terminology of typography probably means "proofs". The 
word "madfis" meaning "printer" is still found to-day as the family 
name of many Jews whose ancestors were among the pioneers of 
the art. The early printers used the word "katab" "to write", as in 
the non-Jewish books the word "scribere" weis used for to "print". 
They also used the verb "hakak", "to engrave", which subsequently 
became obsolete. (Ersch & Gruber 28 :23; see also Berliner "Ein- 
fluss" p. 3.) 

t Putnam 1 : 365. 

[34] 



THE PIONEERS 



mechanical printers who threaten to make learning 
a base and vulgar thing even they must depend 
on the manuscript over which we scholars have 
bent with that insight into the poet's meaning 
which is closely akin to the mens divinior of the 
poet himself; unless they would flood the world 
with grammatical falsities and inexplicable anom- 
alies that would turn the very fountain of Par- 
nassus into a deluge of poisonous mud." * The 
blind Bardo well expressed the sentiment of the 
literati of his day. But there was no need of such 
fear for Hebrew literature. No one studied manu- 
scripts with greater care than the Hebrew printer, 
who was engaged in a "holy work," whose duty it 
was to transmit the words of the sages unchanged 
by a single letter; who prepared his book with 
extraordinary care from old and valuable manu- 
scripts, corrected by learned scholars and inspired 
by the desire to leave nothing undone that makes 
for perfection, t Still more vigorous was the 
resentment of the monkish scribes, who foresaw 
the doom of their art through the competition 
of the new machine.} The wail of Abbot 
Trithemius of Spanheim may serve as a type of the 
complaints of the booklovers. Writing to the Abbot 
Gerlach of Dentz^f he says: — "A work written on 

* George Eliot: Romola Chap. V. 

t Depping, " Die Juden im Mittelalter '' Stuttgart 1834, p. 382. 

J Chwolson " Reshith maase hadefus beyisrael " Warsaw 1897 

p. 6. 

t In a letter printed in 1494 in Mainz, under the title "de laude 
scriptorum manualium" Putnam 1 : 366-367. 



[35 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

parchment could be preserved for a thousand 
years, while it is probable that no volume printed 
on paper will last for more than two centuries. 
Many important works have not been printed, 
and the copies required of these must be prepared 
by scribes. The scribe who ceases his work because 
of the invention of the printing-press can be no 
true lover of books, in that, regarding only the 
present he gives no due thought to the intellectual 
cultivation of his successors. The printer has no 
care for the beauty and the artistic form of books, 
while with the scribe this is a labour of love." 

The Jewish copyists likewise soon felt the press- 
ure of this new competition,* and their natural 
outcry against those who were taking away their 
bread brought out the stern warning of one of the 
Neapolitan printers, "let those who speak ill of 
this art bear their sin." f With the exception of 
an occasional protesting voice, a chorus of praise 
arose for the new art. No religious community 
made so widespread a use of the press as the Jews, 
who saw in it a perpetual guarantee against 
monopoly of knowledge by the rich, who alone 
could afford to buy manuscripts. In the me- 
chanical process of printing they had an assurance 
that after careful editing and correction of proofs 
the correctness of texts would no longer be de- 
pendent on the skill, knowledge and scholarly 
accuracy of the copyist; and literature was saved 



* Berliner "Einfluss," p. 6. 
tErsch & Gruber 28: 22. 



36 



THE PIONEERS 



from the danger of fire and water and secure against 
destruction by fanaticism and ignorance.* While 
the older scholars and booklovers naturally con- 
tinued to prefer manuscripts f and manuscript 
copies were still required for certain ritualistic 
booksj the'printed book supplanted the manuscript 
and the traditional reverence paid by the "people 
of the writing" to the written word was trans- 
ferred to the printed page.^l The form of the man- 
uscript letters and page was long retained, even to 
the omission of a few letters or words to be filled in 
by hand and the printing of the colophon in lines of 
diminishing size when the text was not sufficient to 
fill the last page.** But beyond these natural 
and sentimental tributes to the older art it was 
with a sense of relief that the printers compared 
their presses with the slow and tiresome pen of the 
scribe. The old scribe often groaned at his labor, 
"For he that knows not how to write thinks this 
no labor. O, how hard is writing! It tires the 
eyes, saps the vitality and depresses every organ 
of the body. Three fingers write ; the whole body 
labors." And the printer's anti phonal exultation 
responds: "I advise the once weary hand and pen 
to rest, For labor is ended by art and skill. "tf 

* Jost 3: 257, 258. 
t Putnam 1 : 243 

t Scrolls of the law to be used in the synagogue, phylacteries, 
doorpost amulets, bills of divorce, etc. 
U Berliner " Einfluss " p. 9. 
** Berliner " Einfluss '■ 7. 
tt Brown 23. 



[37 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Among the earliest craftsmen who took up the 
work was Abraham ben Hayyim, "one of the in- 
habitants and dyers* (dei Tintori) of Pesaro," 
whose name first appears in a book pubHshed by 
him at Ferrara in 1477; but who is supposed by 
somef to have been the first to establish a Hebrew 
press and to cut Hebrew type in 1473. { 

Not far to the north of Pesaro lay the territory 
of the Dukes of Este, who had ruled from their 
capital Ferrara from the beginning of the twelfth 
century, when Obizzo d'Este swooped down upon 
it from his Paduan hills, until 1597 when, at the 
death of Alfonso d'Este II, it was annexed by 
Pope Clement VIII to the States of the Church. 
Ferrara first enters into the history of the Hebrew 
press in the days of Duke Ercole I, best known 
and most distinguished of his race. His court 
was a gathering place for the most brilliant spirits 
of the age, of all those peripatetic scholars, philoso- 
phers, artists, poets and musicians who were wel- 
comed in all the courts of Italy, from Milan and 
Venice to Naples. Ercole, like so many of his 
contemporaries. Christian in faith but heathen in 

♦Dyeing was largely in the hands of Jews. Giidemann, "Geschichte 
des Erziehungswesens und der Cultur der Juden in Italien " p. 69, 
ventures to say that they controlled this industry which was during 
the Middle Ages the chief industry of Italy. 

t Jew. Enc. Art. "Bible editions." 

J As we now have several candidates presented by different scholars 
for the distinction of typographical primacy, we shall reserve judgment 
until the evidence is more convincing and in the meantime accept as 
the pioneers those whose names are connected with earliest dated 
books. 

[38] 



THE PIONEERS 



culture, was concerned rather with the things of 
this world of beauty of intellect and of power, than 
of that mysterious and pale region beyond the 
grave which constituted the realm of the Church. 
The dukes of the House of Este harbored the 
plan of rivalling the commercial importance of the 
Queen of the Adriatic, and where such a magnifi- 
cent enterprise was conceived the pettiness of 
theological hair-splitting might amuse an idle hour, 
but could not seriously affect the policy of the 
State. The Jews, trained by long continued per- 
secution to recognize from afar signs of danger or 
of safety, did not fail to observe that wherever 
there was commercial prosperity the influence of 
the Church spirit was weak, and a place of safety 
might be found for those who stood without the 
pale. Therefore they flocked to Ferrara and pros- 
pered and were treated by the duke with the con- 
sideration that their services deserved. The de- 
cree of the duke published in 1473, relieving the 
Jews of all exceptional taxation, was testimony of 
his practical sagacity and an act of far-reaching 
importance, for it was a blow to the revenues of 
the Church, which were in part maintained by 
a special scheme of taxation levied by the Pope's 
legate. The Church was of course always in need 
of funds and a very important part of its adminis- 
tration consisted in devising ways and means for 
raising revenue. A favorite expedient was the 
levying of special taxes on the Jews, a plan devised 
at Rome and ingeniously worked out in detail, 

[39] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

which went so far as to compel the Jews to pay 
the expenses to which the Church was put in 
attempting their own conversion, and Hkewise to 
pay for the maintenance of those apostate Jews 
who yielded to its threats or blandishments. 

In 1624, after Ferrara had been absorbed into 
the States of the Church, a ghetto was established 
from Via della Scienze, where stood its famous 
University, to the Piazza del Mercato, flanked by 
the cathedral and facing the ducal palace. In 
this section of the city, the very heart of Ferrara, 
the Jews had lived since time immemorial, topo- 
graphically as well as intellectually and financially 
in closest touch with the ruling powers. To this 
place they came from other cities of Italy, even 
from Venice, at the direct invitation of Duke 
Ercole, and finally in 1492 in great numbers from 
the inhospitable shores of Spain and Portugal.* 
When the citizens of Ferrara complained to the 
Duke that the incoming Jews were overcrowding 
their quarter and discommoding their neighbors, 
he was not guilty of the folly of restricting im- 
migration, but doubled the size of his city by com- 
mencing those great building operations north of 
what is now the Via Cavour and the Strada della 
Giovecca. When the duchy was made part of 
the States of the Church, this part of the city 
became forlorn and deserted, and until the days 
of Victor Emanuel II lay neglected and forgotten 
in grass-grown obscurity, a monument to the 

* Kayserling "Sephardim" p. 138 etc. 
[40] 



THE PIONEERS 



ruinous inefficiency of the administration of the 
Church. 

To the Ferrara of Ercole came Abraham the 
Dyer of Pesaro. Why he left his native city and 
found his way to Ferrara we do not know. Per- 
haps, as de Rossi surmises, he was attracted to 
Ferrara by "the number of its Jews, the splendor 
of its Jewish academies and the fame of its rab- 
binical doctors," or, what is more likely, by the 
less lofty motive of getting a better living at his 
trade than in his native Pesaro. Andre of Belfort, 
the Frenchman, had established the first press at 
Ferrara in 1471, and other printers, mostly French- 
men, soon followed him.* It may be that the 
healthy curiosity of the dyer was attracted by the 
new method of perpetuating literature, and that 
he entered the shop of one of these craftsmen as 
a journeyman apprentice. He soon became a 
master, for in 1477 he set up his own press and 
printed two books, both of them favorites with 
the early printers, and therefore most probably 
in good demand among Jewish readers; the first 
one, a commentary on the Book of Job,t one of the 
many commentaries of the popular Rabbi Levi 
ben Gerson, whose books written some one hun- 
dred and fifty years before this time, were issued 
from nearly all of the presses in Italy, and the 
second, "He shall Teach Knowledge" (Yoreh 

* Fumagalli 126. 

t Schwab "les incunfibles etc.'' p. 30, finished Friday 16 May 
1477; corrected by Nathan of Salo. Ersch & Gruber 28 : 34. 



[41 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

De'ah) * begun at Mantua by Dr. Conat and 
finished by the Dyer, within a month of his first 
book. 

Although after 1477 the activity of Abraham 
the Dyer is unrecorded, it is not Hkely that his 
press was idle, at a time so favorable for the pubH- 
cation of Hebrew works. After five years Abra- 
ham the Dyer suddenly appears in the city of 
Bologna in company with one of the German 
printers of the family of Strassburg, whom we 
shall meet again at Naples, Venice and elsewhere, 
working at the press of a rich patron Joseph ben 
Abraham Caravita.f Joseph Hayyim of Strass- 
burg expressed his appreciation of Abraham the 
Dyer in the epigraph wherein Abraham is called 
"a workman whose equal in Hebrew typography 
does not exist in the whole world, a man celebrated 
everywhere" — rather exaggerated praise, seeing 
that there were at that time perhaps not half a 
dozen Jewish master-printers in the world. Its 
extravagance is somewhat modified by the fact 
that Abraham was a pioneer of the art, one of 



* One of the four sections of the great code of the law, The Turim, 
a book in universal use as a guide in all matters, legal, ritualistic and 
religious, and printed by the pioneers at Pieve, Mantua, Ferrara and 
Soncino as well as at Ixar, Lisbon and Guadalaxara. Berliner "Aus 
meiner Bibliothek " p. 30; Zunz "Zur Geschichte etc." p. 219. 

t Caravita defrayed the cost of publishing the Pentateuch printed 
by Abraham the Dyer and Joseph Hayyim ben Aaron, of Strassburg, 
who also acted as corrector, at Bologna, on January 26, 1482. Ersch 
& Gruber 28 : 34. It is supposed that the edition of Megillot with 
Rashi and commentary of Ibn Ezra on Esther came from Caravita's 
press in the same year. R. Gottheil in Jew. Enc. 3 : 299. 

[42] 




Duke trcole I ot rerrara 



THE PIONEERS 



those early printers who reached perfection in their 
work almost at the very outset. Their clear types, 
rich black inks and clean strong press work are not 
excelled by the best productions of the modern 
press, and their successors of the sixteenth century 
did little to improve upon their work. Later 
printers, feeling the goad of competition and vying 
with each other to supply the demand for cheap 
books, hurried their work and in their haste sacri- 
ficed their art to the gods of the market place.* 
About the middle of the fifteenth century 
Bologna became the storm centre of Jewish life in 
Italy, as the meeting place of a great congress of 
rabbis. The times were out of joint and the wise 
men met to consult upon the public weal, for bitter 
and relentless persecution threatened the House 
of Israel. Nor did the rabbis meet in vain, for 
when in 1473 Bernardino da Feltre preached at 

* Brown pp. 50-51. Some of the peculiarities, we can hardly call 
them imperfections, of the early editions may be noted. The first 
types showed too great a similarity between certain letters, such as 
"he" and "het", "daled" and "resh", "kaf" and "bet" In the 
older books empty spaces at the end of lines were filled up by two 
strokes, or by the first or first and second letters of the first word on 
the following line. This was the custom in manuscripts and copied by 
the first printers, but was soon discontinued. The first words of chap- 
ters were often omitted, in order to be filled in afterward in writing or 
with wood cut ornaments. This was often forgotten. Signatures and 
pagination are wanting in the earliest books, and when they first appear 
they are very irregular. The pagination is usually in Hebrew, rarely 
in Arabic figures, and is used to number the leaves and not the pages. 
Vowel points and accents are found in the earlier Bibles and prayer 
books; but they are likewise irregularly and unskillfuUy introduced, 
and it is very difficult to distinguish between "patah" and "kamez". 
(Ersch & Gruber 28; 23.) 



[45] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Bologna, his furious ranting fell upon deaf ears. 
The influence of the humanistic movement had 
made it difficult to stir up the rulers of the people 
to religious crusades, and the stern but wise 
Giovanni Bentivoglio checked the preaching friar 
and compelled him to seek more sympathetic 
auditors elsewhere. Nevertheless, the curse of 
bigotry rested on the world, and men were judged 
not by what they did, but by what they believed. 
The Jews were still debarred by the statutes of the 
great university from direct participation in its 
literary life and had only their own intellectual 
predilections to stimulate their interest in non- 
Jewish learning. In one respect, however, they 
may be said to have directly promoted the interest 
of the universities, for as book sellers they wan- 
dered far and wide, collecting manuscripts from 
all corners of the world, and turning their imme- 
morial love for books into humble but useful service 
to the great movement for the revival of learning, 
which was to shake the old world from its lethargy 
of centuries. Of course, in those sad days, as 
soon as the Jew prospered in any undertaking, the 
Church authorities felt obliged, upon the com- 
plaint of Christian competitors, to put an end to 
a material success that seemed incompatible with 
infidelity. When Jewish book sellers at the be- 
ginning of the fourteenth century began to deal 
in Latin, Greek and other manuscripts, the heavy 
hand of the Church fell upon them and they were 
prohibited, under severe penalties, from selling 

[46] 



THE PIONEERS 



books to Christians or from buying from them.* 
However, Church regulations, that in earUer cen- 
turies would have been implicitly obeyed, had now 
lost some of their force. Monasteries and churches 
in need of money sold or pledged their books to 
Jews, and as these were mostly religious works, 
the Jews presumably did not purchase them for 
home consumption."!" At the universities of Padua 
and Bologna, the necessities of the students forced 
the authorities to permit the Jewish book trade 
to be openly carried on. Through the dimness of 
the centuries we may still see one Jacob of Padua, 
in high-peaked cap and pleated gown, hurrying 
across the Foro dei Mercanti on his way to the 
university, with a dozen precious parchment 
scrolls under his arm; J and at an earlier date, 
another, named Moses, from whom, in defiance of 
Church regulations, some unknown scholar pur- 
chased a valuable code, recording the transaction 
in this inscription: "Emi hunc Anno Domini 
MCCCC die XXI mensis Novembris a Moysi 
Judeo pro VIII fiorenes."^ 

We naturally look to Bologna, the university 
town, for early recognition of the press, and we 

* If Jews had manuscripts to dispose of, it was necessary to place 
them in the hands of the stationarii, who sold them on commission. 
Putnam 1 : 185. 

t Putnam 1 : 231, 232. 

t He carried on his business of selling manuscripts between 1455- 
1460. His inscription occurs in many classical codices. In a manu- 
script of Horace of the twelfth century the owner notes that he bought 
it in 1458 from Jacob the Hebrew librarius. Putnam 1 : 249. 

1[ Putnam 1 : 246. 



[47] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

find that at the invitation of the prince Giovanni 
Bentivoglio a press was estabHshed there in 1471 
by Baldasarre Azzoguidi, who proudly calls him- 
self "first employer of the art of printing in his 
city for the benefit of the human race,"* in sharp 
contrast to the modesty of the Hebrew craftsman 
Gerson Soncino, who calls himself "least of all 
the printers", though in fact he was among the 
first. A few years after Azzoguidi's advent, 
"Meister" Joseph (probably Joseph Hayyim of 
Strassburg) and two associates, one unidentified 
and the other Hezekiah of Ventura t pubhshed 
on August 29, 1477 J an edition of three hundred 
copies of a commentary to the Psalms by Rabbi 
David Kimhi, most illustrious bearer of his great 
family name, a luminous and erudite commentator 
grammarian and lexicographer, whose works had 

* Fumagalli p. 37. 

t Richard Gottheil (Jew. Enc. 3 : 299) gives but two names, 
Joseph Hayyim Mordecai and Hezekiah da Ventura; Steinschneider 
gives three, Meister Joseph, Nerijah Hayyim Mordecai and Hezekiah 
of Ventura. (Ersch & Gruber 28 iSS.) De Rossi, who cites the 
colophon of the Kimhi to Psalms, seems to justify Steinschneider's 
reading. But the "Ve-Nerijah" of the second name is by no means 
clear. That Joseph was a German is suggested by the form of his 
title "Meister" instead of "Messer". De Rossi cites Tychsen as first 
to suggest this. (De Rossi ann. XV 19.) I have ventured to suggest 
his identity with Joseph of Strassburg, who printed with Abraham the 
Dyer in 1482. Apropos of this suggestion, Chwolson (p. 21) calls 
attention to the fact that the types of the Kimhi of 1477 are similar 
to those of the Rashi text in the Pentateuch of 1482, of which Joseph 
of Strassburg was corrector and associate printer. This type is the 
so-called "Weiberteutsch" used in later times only for Judaeo-German 
books. (Ersch & Gruber 28 : 23.) 

J Schwab "les incunables etc." p. 29. 

[48] 



THE PIONEERS 



the distinction of being ten times printed at six 
different presses before the year 1500. 

After Abraham the Dyer left Bologna, he again 
disappears for a time, until we catch one last 
glimpse of him working at the press of the most 
renowned of the craft in the city of Soncino, in 
1488, and with his departure from Bologna that 
ancient and famous city passes out of the history 
of the Hebrew press until after half a century, a 
loyal company of Jewish silk weavers again engage 
for a little while in the "holy work" of printing. 

It was not only the physicians and men of 
science who were devoted to the new art. Scholar- 
ship and knowledge were not the exclusive pos- 
session of professional men. Artisans and crafts- 
men had always partaken freely of the "Prepared 
Table", * as Joseph Caro so significantly called it, 
and, in conformity with the immemorial practice 
of Israel not to use scholarship as a spade to dig 
with, had devoted their leisure to its cultivation 
and dissemination. Therefore it was no strange 
sight in the days of old to see Rabbi Joshua, the 
needle maker, and Rabbi Yohanan, the sandal 
maker, sitting in the highest places of the great 
academies of learning to learn and to teach, or at 
a later time to see the dyer of Pesaro, the butchers 
of Padua,t or the silk weavers of Bologna engage 

*The "Shulhan Arukh" the great code of the law compiled by 
Caro, finished ISSS, first printed at Venice 1565. 

t They helped to establish the Hebrew press at Rome in 1518 
and one of them printed at Trino 1525. 



[49] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

in the "holy work." For it was not greed or even 
the hope of adequate pecuniary reward that 
prompted most of the pioneers to engage in the 
hazardous business of printing. They seem to 
have had some of the feeUng that stimulates ex- 
plorers, who are willing to risk the dangers and 
terrors of unknown lands for the sake of the joy 
of discovery and the thrill of adventure. And like 
the explorers of the wilds, many of them have 
fallen leaving no record of their existence. It is 
not unlikely that there were books printed in 
Bologna between 1477 and 1482* and that there 
were presses established in other cities of Italy 
besides those of which we have knowledge, but no 
trace of them exists to-day. When we see that, in 
some instances, but a single copy of a book re- 
mains to indicate the existence of the printer, we 
may reasonably believe that the fierce persecution 
that followed Jewish books as well as Jewish men 
in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, des- 
troyed all traces of many books and all records of 
many lives.f 

* Chwolson p. 21. 

fChwolson p. 22. One can appreciate the rarity of Hebrew in- 
cunabula by noting that of the 100 books printed before 1500, about 
20 are now known only through a single copy. Freimann p. 4. Chris- 
tian incunabula are usually in fine condition, Hebrew ones exceptionally 
so. 



[50] 



CHAPTER III. 
THE SONS OF SONCINO. 

Moses Mentzlan and Giovanni di Capistrano — Samuel b. 
Moses at Soncino — Dr. Israel Nathan Soncino — Joshua 
Solomon Soncino — The First Talmudic Treatise — The First 
Mahzor — At Casalmaggiore — The First Bible — Joshua Solo- 
mon Soncino at Naples — The Neapolitan Printers — The 
Ashkenazi — Katorzi — The Canon and the Agur. 

THE family of Soncino traces its origin to one 
Moses of the City of Speyer in Alsace, who 
lived about the middle of the thirteenth century.* 
Its history like that of most other families is ob- 
scure, for although everybody has ancestors they 
are not all recorded in the College of Heralds. 
From the middle of the thirteenth to the middle 
of the fifteenth century the family continued to 
live in Speyer, and they were probably among the 
Jews who were expelled from that city by a general 
edict of expulsion in 1435. f The forefathers of 
the Soncinati like the other tribes of the wandering 
foot and weary breast found no permanent resting 
place in Germany, and later on we find one of 
them in the city of Furth in Bavaria — a spirited 
somewhat obstinate man who fought for his people 
with whole-souled and self-sacrificing devotion. f 
Moses Mentzlan (Menschlein, manikin) so called 

* Sacchi "I tipografi ebrei di Soncino" Cremona 1877 p. 13. 
t Rothschild "Die Judengemeinden Mainz, Speyer and Worms" 
p. 165. 

% Sacchi p. 46. 

[51] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

perhaps because of his insignificant stature, or 
through the contempt of his Christian fellows is 
made visible to us for a moment in the chaos of 
time when he vainly appealed to the scholars and 
princes of Furth to save his coreligionists from the 
fanatical hatred aroused by the fulminations of 
the crusading Franciscan Giovanni di Capistrano. 
Of his fate we know nothing, whether he found his 
grave in his native land or went into exile with his 
brethren. Samuel his son fled from Bavaria, 
crossed the mountains and settled in the little 
village of Orzinovi in what is now the district of 
Brescia, at that time under the dominion of the 
Republic of Venice. But Samuel's abilities did 
not permit him to remain long in Orzinovi; and 
on May 9, 1454, Francesco Sforza Duke of Milan 
issued to him letters patent, permitting him to 
settle with his family in the fortified city of 
Soncino.* 

To-day the traveler in Northern Italy would 
hardly know where to look for the city of Soncino, 
for it is merely a prosperous market town f in the 
District of Cremona on the high road from 
Brescia to Pavia, about thirty-five miles east of 
Milan. In the fifteenth century, however, it was 
a commercial centre, a flourishing city well forti- 
fied and containing many men-at-arms. Its im- 
portance was first established under Gian Galeazzo 
Visconti the most notorious of the line of Dukes 

* Sacchi, p. 47, where the document is quoted in full, 
t Grosso e bellissimo borgo. Soave, p. 5. 

[52] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



of Milan bearing that name, and continued under 
Francesco Sforza who drove out the Visconti and 
made himself Duke of Milan. The new Duke 
being a wise statesman recognized the need of 
commercial and financial talent in his Duchy, for 
then as now the strength of princes depended upon 
their treasury. It was therefore good policy on 
the part of the Duke to induce useful citizens from 
the neighboring principalities to settle in his do- 
minion, strengthening his power at the expense 
of his powerful and dangerous rival, the great 
flourishing Republic of Venice who had extended 
her influence far to the west, and had absorbed 
several principalities that lay between her and 
Milan. Samuel and his family the only Jews at 
that time in Soncino were permitted by the Duke 
to open a bank and lend money, and out of grati- 
tude to his patron and to the country of his adop- 
tion where for the first time the "manikin" had 
become a "man", Samuel discarded his contemp- 
tuous German surname and adopted that of the 
city of his residence. 

It is characteristic of many of the old Jewish 
families in Italy as elsewhere that they united 
great practical ability and sagacity with idealistic 
devotion to scholarship and science. Bankers and 
craftsmen devoted their leisure to the cultivation 
of medicine, natural science, literature, law and 
poetry. Like so many of his distinguished con- 
temporaries Israel Nathan Soncino, the son of 
Samuel Mentzlan practiced that profession of 



[53: 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

medicine which has the pecuUar attraction of 
combining love of science with practical helpful- 
ness at the same time that he continued the bank- 
ing business of his father. In the year 1478 the 
establishment of the public loan office or Monte 
di Pieta in Soncino compelled him to abandon the 
business * and in 1480 he turned his attention to 
the new art of printing, which was exercising its 
fascination over so many of the brightest minds 
of the time. Israel Nfithan Soncino, reared in 
almost princely fashion and educated in the dis- 
ciplines of the Jews and the Gentiles, became the 
founder of the great Hebrew press that bears the 
name of Soncino. f 

The Soncino family presents a typical medieval 
picture of an entire family at work at the same 
press, one of the sons in general charge the other 
son and the grandson among the workmen and all 
under the supervision of the grandfather "the 
learned Rabbi Israel Nathan, father of all the sons 
of Soncino. "J The aged founder of the house 
was permitted to enjoy the first and most splendid 
fruits of this press, the several Talmudical Treat- 
ises, the great Mahzor containing the entire ritual 
for the year the first complete Bible printed with 

* Sacchi p. 14. 

t The productions of this press have been studied by several 
Christian scholars, Bartolocci, Wolf, De Rossi, Sacchi, Manzoni and 
others. 

i So notable were the productions of their press that for a long 
time bibliographers forgot the existence of earlier printers and thought 
the Soncinati the first Hebrew printers in Italy. Wolf Bib. Heb. 4 : 941 . 

[54] 



!^4 &il«uLlll 




FRANCESCO SFOKZAI- 
DVCADIMILANO 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the help of Abraham the Dyer* and other books 
on ethics exegesis and philosophy. In 1489, 
Israel Nathan Soncino was gathered to his fathers, 
and within a year his son Moses followed him into 
eternity.f With their deaths the press of the sons 
of Soncino practically came to an end and the 
fortunes of the family followed the two survivors, 
Joshua Solomon and Gerson into other cities and 
lands. 

Let us go back to the beginning of the press at 
Soncino in the early part of the eighth decade. 
Under the direction of his father, Joshua Solomon 
Soncino provided the material and the men, and 
laid the foundations for this notable undertaking. 
All was new to these pioneers; presses had to be 
provided, types cut, inks made and tested, paper 
supplied and manuscripts examined and approved 
for publication. Not that they were obliged to 
study the contending claims of living authors, who 
sought to immortalize their lucubrations through 
the press; to this fate a later generation of crafts- 
men was doomed. The pioneers were concerned 
with the publication of works of the recognized 
masters of Jewish literature; they were troubled 

* Of this notable work a modern bibliographer says: "The first 
Hebrew Bible printed in Europe was issued at Soncino in 1488 from 
the press of Abraham Colonto.'' Putnam 1 : 459. This citation 
illustrates the manner in which Jewish historical facts are treated by 
many non- Jewish scholars. Abraham Colonto may have been in- 
tended for Abraham the Dyer, or Abraham Conat of Mantua. What- 
ever it may have been, it is quite wrong. 

fSacchip. IS. The date there given 1480 is evidently a typo- 
graphical error. 

[56] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



only by the question of the accuracy of manu- 
scripts that had come down to them from former 
ages. The work of revision and correction was 
done by scholars of approved ability, who care- 
fully studied the manuscripts and followed the 
sheets through the press. Among the proof- 
readers of the old printers we find some of the 
greatest names of the time, for eminent scholars 
considered it a pious duty to assist in the work of 
perpetuating some ancient authority through the 
thousand impressions of the press. 

Having gathered his force and his appliances, 
Joshua Solomon selected as the first publication 
of his press the first treatise of the most important 
Jewish book since the completion of the Biblical 
canon, the treatise "Blessings" (Berakhot) of the 
Babylonian Talmud. Carefully and patiently the 
sons of Soncino labored at their first book under 
the guidance of Gabriel ben Aaron of Strassburg, 
whose brother Joseph Hayyim ben Aaron of Strass- 
burg had assisted Abraham the Dyer at the press 
of Caravita, in Bologna. At last it was finished, 
and December 19, 1483, when the complete treatise 
Berakhot was laid before the aged Israel Nathan, 
was a day of jubilee in the house of the ci-devant 
banker. On the same day there was completed 
another Talmudical treatise, "An Egg" (Bezah) 
so called from the first word of the text of the 
Mishnah with which it begins, which had been 
run through the press at the same time as the 
treatise "Blessings." The British Museum the 



[57] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Bodleian Library at Oxford the Stadt-Bibliothek 
of Frankfurt am Main have a copy of each, the 
BibHoteca Palatina at Parma has the "Berakhot" 
and the Vaticana has the "Bezah." The Talmud 
has been many times reprinted since the days of 
the sons of Soncino, in Venice Lublin Salonica 
Constantinople Basel Cracow Amsterdam and 
many other cities of Germany Austria and Poland.* 
But the Soncino treatises are inferior to none in 
press work and paper, and equalled only by the 
Bomberg editions in the correctness of texts, 
especially those texts that were subsequently 
mutilated and altered through fear of the censors.f 
From the solid substance of these two Tal- 
mudical treatises the printers of Soncino turned to 
lighter work and within a month (January 14, 
1484) they finished the "Choice of Pearls" 
(Mibhar Hapeninim){ written by "the Jewish 
Plato" poet philosopher and moralist the far- 
famed Solomon Ibn Gabirol. 

"Den Gebirol, diesen treuen 
Gottgeweihten Minnesaenger 
Diese fromme Nachtigall 
Deren Rose Gott gewesen — 
Diese Nachtigall, die zaertlich 
Ihre Liebeslieder sang 
In der Dunkelheit der Gotisch 
Mittelalterlichen Nacht!" 

* Rabbinovicz "Maamar al hadefasat ha Talmud." 
t S. D. Luzzato in H. B. 1 : 86. 

X Corrected by Solomon ben Perez Bonfoi, who subsequently 
worked at Naples. 

[58] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



This string of pearls of wisdom and ethics first 
presented to the world about the middle of the 
eleventh century, in what Heine has called "the 
darkness of the Gothic-medieval night" of Europe, 
was translated from the original Arabic into 
Hebrew by the Spanish Jewish scholar Judah Ibn 
Tibbon, and for several centuries was cherished 
as a fountain of wisdom. The "Choice of Pearls" 
was quickly followed at Soncino by the "Investi- 
gation of the World" (Behinat 01am) by Jedaiah 
Bedersi, first printed by Estellina Conat at Man- 
tua, and the "Chapters of the Fathers" (Pirke 
Aboth) with the commentary of Maimonides. 
Thus the printers of Soncino gave up the entire 
year 1484 to works of moral philosophy. 

In the following year after having printed 
another Talmudic treatise, "The Scroll" (Megillah) 
they completed one of the most important of their 
publications the first part of the Mahzor,* con- 
taining the complete ritual for the Jewish year 
according to the Roman rite, and known as the 
ritual according to the custom of Italy (Mahzor 
Minhag Italiani). Under the name of Mahzor 
Romaniya this ritual the oldest in Europe had 
come from far Byzantium to Southern Italy, where 
it was transformed by the Congregation of Rome 
into the standard ritual for Italy.j A bulky vol- 

* The term Mahzor is applied by the Sephardim to all the prayers 
of the year, by the Ashkenazim only to the prayers for the festivals. 

fBenjacob, Ozar Hasepharim, title "Mahzor." This Mahzor 
was republished twice by Soncino, again by the silk weavers of Bologna 
in 1540, and several Italian translations have been published. In the 
Mantua (1S60) edition it is called Mahzor Itali. 

[59] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

ume is this first Soncino edition ; found entire only 
when pieced together from stray fragments and 
pages by the care and knowledge of the booklover. 
It seems especially to have roused the ire of the 
Inquisitors, for its destruction is almost complete; 
of the copies extant all bear traces of the hand of 
its foes, and torn pages still further defaced by the 
ink scrawl of censors are eloquent in their silence.* 
This great Mahzor which Israel Nathan Soncino 
likened to a "ladder set up on the earth whose top 
reaches into heaven upon which we may ascend to 
supplicate our Maker, may He be blessed," was 
commenced "by us the sons of Sonzin in the City 
of Sonzin on the New Moon of Tishri in the year 
246 of the Sixth Millennium, and completed here 
in Casal Maiore (Casal Maggiore) on the second 
day of the week the twentieth day of the month 
Ellul in the year 5246 of the creation of the world." 
The family had evidently taken hasty flight from 
Soncino to Casalmaggiore, a little town about 
twenty-two miles east of Cremona, a flight which 
marks the beginning of their wanderings from 
city to city until Gerson Soncino's final exodus 
from Italy in 1527. 

In 1485, before their flight to Casalmaggiore, 
they printed their first Biblical text the "Earlier 

* In the Alenu prayer of this edition Joshua Solomon Soncino 
censored the text for fear of offending the ecclesiastics. In the passage 
" they worship vanity and emptiness and make supplication to a god 
who cannot save " the words "vanity and emptiness" and "to a god 
who cannot save" are omitted and a staring blank indicates to the 
knowing reader that words are here to be introduced which may be 
spoken but not written. 

[60] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



Prophets," * followed by the famous philosophical 
work on the fundamentals of the Jewish religion 
"The Book of Roots" (Ikkarim) by Joseph Albo, 
a contemporary of Israel Nathan Soncino, who 
died while the latter was still a young man. His 
book essays to develop the religious philosophy of 
Judaism along the lines laid down by Maimonides 
in his thirteen articles, and although scholars are 
divided as to its originality, it is admittedly one of 
the most influential books of religious philosophy. f 
At the completion of the edition of the Ikkarim, 
the printers at Soncino in the justifiable pride of 
accomplishment wrote, playing on the well-known 
text of Isaiah, "From Zion shall go forth the law 
and the word of God from Soncino." We do not 
know whether their interpretation of the "word 
of God" included all the splendid works in Jewish 
literature that they had already published, or 
whether the phrase used in its narrower sense as 
referring to the Bible alone was intended to fore- 

* The importance of this edition is shown by the variae lectiones 
found in it by Tychsen, De Rossi and Baer. Berliner "Aus Meiner 
Bibliothek", p. 25. 

t A later commentator, one Gedalyah ben Solomon of . Poland, 
published a commentary which he called "The Tree Planted" a title 
taken from the verse of the first Psalm, "And he shall be like a tree 
planted by the rivers of water that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; 
his leaf also shall not wither," and playing upon the title of Albo's 
book of "Roots" he divided his commentary into portions called 
"trunks" "branches" and "leaves'" all of them based upon the "roots" 
of the Master. 

In 1486 the "Later Prophets" and the first printed prayer book 
'Sidorello', whose title is a quaint union of Hebrew and Italian, were 
printed before the flight to Casal Maggiore. 



[61] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

cast their great undertaking the complete text of 
the Bible. For this great work they had the ex- 
pert assistance of the Dyer of Pesaro the skilled 
Abraham ben Hayyim, who came to Soncino from 
Bologna where he had been working at the press 
of Caravita, and together they produced the first 
edition of the most important book in the Hebrew 
language and in the literatures of the world the 
complete edition of the Bible with accents and 
vowel points* finished at Soncino on Tuesday the 
second day of lyyar 5284 corresponding to Febru- 
ary 23, 1488. t In the same year after the com- 
pletion of this work Joshua Solomon issued the 
"SuppHcation of the M's"f of Bedersi and Kimhi's 
grammar "Walk through the pathways of knowl- 
edge "T[ and his nephew Gerson the most renowned 
of the family, appears as the publisher of the code 
of Moses of Coucy the "Semag."** After having 
issued in 1489 a number of Talmudic treatises, 
Joshua Solomon determined to leave Soncino prob- 
ably moved by the death of his father and brother 
and the turbulent conditions in the principalities 
of Northern Italy which interfered with all peaceful 
pursuits. There was renewed persecution of the 

* In 1492 Reuchlin paid 6 gold florins at Rome for a copy of this 
book. Freimann, Ueber heb. Ink. p. 4. 

t Before this publication they issued the "Tahanunim" and 
Rashi to the Pentateuch in 1487. 

t So called because M is the initial letter of the whole supplication. 

1 Mahalah Shebile Hadaat. 

** "Semag" is a word formed of the initial letters of Sefer Mizvot 
Gadol, the Great Book of the Commandments, a code of law compiled 
in the 13th century. 

[62] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



Jews throughout the Duchy of Milan, and to use 
the words of the chronicler Joseph Hacohen* 
"Lodovico II Moro the regent of Milan again 
falsely accused the Jews cast them into prison and 
exiled them from his land, after having extorted 
much money from them." 

Looking about him for a new home Joshua 
Solomon decided to follow his workmen Solomon 
ben Perez Bonfoi to Naples where King Ferrante I, 
under the influence of his Jewish physician Gugli- 
elmo di Portaleone, showed the large and pros- 
perous Jewish community many marks of his favor. 

One of the first books of Jewish interest pub- 
lished at Naples issued from the press of Francesco 
di Dino a Florentine residing at Naples near 
the monastery of Fuligno.f It was an alleged 
epistle of Rabbi Samuel a Moroccan Jew J but 
was one of the many infamous books written 
against Jews by their bitterest foes the apostates 
who were anxious to prove the completeness of 
their Christianity by the most inhuman and bar- 
barous attacks on their former brethren in faith. 
The first Hebrew press at Naples was founded in 
1486 by Germans — witness their Hebrew name 
Ashkenazi and their surname probably taken 
from their native town Gunzenhauser.^f 

* Emek Habacha, ed. Letteris, p. 83. 

t Fumagalli, p. 138. 

{Berliner "Aus Meiner Bibliothek", p. 56; Schwab, "les incu- 
nables", p. 10. 

If The first book of their press published by Hayyim the LeVite 
the German (Ashkenazi) is the "Proverbs" of Immanuel of Rome, 



163] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

About the same time that Joshua Solomon 
Soncino came to Naples we hear of another printer 
Isaac ben Judah Ibn Katorzi of Aragon, whose 
name indicates that his family had lived in the 
Iberian peninsula during the days of the Moor 
and who had probably learned his trade from one 
of the masters of the press who flourished there 
before the general expulsion in 1492.* Four of 



then followed Hagiographa I486; Psalms 1487; Ibn Ezra's commentary 
on the Pentateuch 1488; the "Makre Dardeke" or Instructor of 
boys, issued in this year is a Hebrew, Italian, Arabic and French 
lexicon; printer unknown. In 1489, the year in which Joshua Solomon 
Soncino probably left his native city, the presses of Ashkenazi under 
the direction of Joseph ben Jacob Gunzenhauser produced several 
philosophic works, among them the "Tried Stone" (Eben Bohan) of 
Kalonymos ben Kalonymos of the Provence, the "Duties of the Heart" 
(Hobot Halebabot) by Bahya ben Joseph ibn Pakuda, and the "Gate 
of Reward" (Shaar Hageraul) the eschatological conclusion of a larger 
book dealing with mourning and burial ceremonies written by Nah- 
manides about the middle of the thirteenth century. Some of these 
books were corrected for the press of the Ashkenazi by the brothers 
Yomtob and Solomon ben Perez Bonfoi the latter of whom had been 
employed at the press of Soncino. The cosmopolitanism of the Hebrew 
workshop is shown by the names of the printers of Naples, among 
whom we find Germans, Frenchmen, Italians, Portuguese and Span- 
iards. Ersch & Gruber 28 : 36. 

* Only two of his publications are known, Nahmanides' commen- 
tary on the Pentateuch which immediately preceded, and Rabbi 
David Kimhi's "Book of Roots" which immediately followed Joshua 
Solomon Soncino's first publication in that city in 1490. Katorzi 
recommends the "Book of Roots" in the epigraph as a book in which 
the reader will find no end of information, and which differs from all 
other books of the kind which by comparison are insipid without salt. 
This may have been an attack on the edition of the "Book of Roots" 
issued by Joseph Gunzenhauser in August 1490 edited by Samuel 
ben Meir Latif, perhaps the same Samuel Latif who printed at Mantua 
in 1513 and an attempt to divert book buyers from the shop of the 
older printer. 

[64] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



Soncino's publications are known,* most important 
among them a fine edition of the Pentateuch. No 
doubt he as well as his fellow-craftsmen in Naples 
would have continued to produce good books had 
not the world politics of the year 1492 and the 
problems of the Jewish community arising out of 
the expulsion of the Jews from Spain put an end 
forever to the activity of the Neapolitan Hebrew 
presses. 

Two of the last books published at Naples were 
the "Agur" of Jacob Landau, and the "Canon" 
of Avicenna. Abu Ali ben Abdallah Ibn Sina 
or as he is known by the Latinized corruption of 
his name Avicenna about the beginning of the 
eleventh century wrote a medical encyclopedia, 
which for five hundred years was a recognized 
authority at the European universities. The 
Jews' knowledge of Arabic gave them the key to 
this great storehouse of medical knowledge, to 
which they were devoted par excellence throughout 
the Middle Ages.f In the middle of the thirteenth 
century it was translated into Hebrew by Nathan 
of Cento, and one of the distinctions of Dr. Israel 
Nathan Soncino was his index to this great work, 
never printed but seen in manuscript by De Rossi, J 
and now in the Royal Library at Parma.^f In 1491 

* Psalms, Proverbs and Job, 1490; Bible, 1491; Pentateuch with 
accents, 1491; Mishnah, 1492. He probably printed others not now 
identified. 

t Depping, p. 386. 

% Sacchi, p. 48. 

t Hebr. Codex 927 ; Soave p. 6. 



[65] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the press of Ashkenazi this time presided over by 
Azriel ben Joseph Gunzenhauser, undertook the 
publication of this immense work in five parts. 
Among the compositors was Abraham ben Jacob 
Landau a kinsman of Jacob Baruh ben Judah Lan- 
dau who after having corrected the edition of the 
Psalms with the commentary of Kimhi published 
by the Ashkenazi in 1487, prepared for publication 
his own work the "Agur" probably the last work 
printed in Naples and the second Hebrew book pub- 
lished during the lifetime of the author.* It is 
further distinguished in Hebrew book-making as 
the first book containing a rabbinical approbation! 
by the same Messer Leon, who no doubt met the 
author while he was living in Northern Italy. 
These are the words with which Messer Leon intro- 
duced the work of his contemporary to the read- 
ing public: 

"Behold I have seen that which our distin- 
guished master and teacher Jacob Landau has 
wrought, who has compiled a valuable book called 
"Agur" wherein he has gathered and collected the 
laws of the daily service and of the festivals and 
all that is forbidden and allowed, and all matters 
thereunto appertaining. And it is a work that 

* The first having been the "Drippings of the Honeycomb" 
(Nofet Zufim) by Messer Leon, published at Mantua. 

t In fact it contains eight approbations by Messer Leon, Jacob 
ben David Provencal, of Marseilles, Benzion ben Raphael Danuit(?), 
Isaac ben Samuel, Moses ben Shemtob Ibn Habib, Solomon Hayyim 
ben Yehiel, Raphael Cohen, Nathanel ben Levi of Jerusalem, and 
David ben Judah Messer Leon. 

[66] 



B- rr Tiy "ir Jfn "lax n^'Mm .iipvDn on' pay 

ip Ws)ri 3-n TfvnSru pi o-uiij vs ycrp iSs 
las n'i'')j>irT>'p'B;N3i nri'nna-ii'^a-r -^t 
pr>5 -cr«03 v^rm lUN nVSfl nMg 

rr "Vii-c iiris pi " o'-Sni-i ncyo » wMi; 
■iV i'-h'id'O'-ct'isi B>iji"-n'cKTn^''''M'i 
rnntjri rnryca "•i)e»"niSi'a?n3 insx nnin"''"' 
■in i-Tiri3ri'TSpSS>vnnS •ons'iVynxocnrii 
'"■"" 03-'i'ivo v< \3> vwns onu) ri'i'lipn 'a nn 

D3W''iV31"D3 DrXDDl-llBN 03'fll'»''J?S3 rWC 

■•C3i'in'iiiiy<3ii» 'S'lSv -icx-fiy) -ninnipn 
ni:3 'lao mzn 310 psNnjn ruxnn irfiiS nniuj; 

"3 ri'iyi pnsi o'yinyn ncyo's rr>oj> • iswa 
two - ' WDTi 13 iSVnr" BT3 ims wn' ifl pi 
r"o>-nDi33 rn-ff/T iniN Qnn3 '3 top ij iMiynm 
p3yip noyananKT ■evsJa'nth^'rm 
Vs ]i3U3 mn pjp3 ')y6nanN3i''JeD3'n^i?ni 
3'-a jwVi njDi a')i>fiii3n,TiiawrwisS 
COW3 Bn cNi 'Vs snnw Syan la'cw n'lvfiri 
•onn' Tnn hv trpaino 13 onsTin 103 tr Wfl 
'^yfin.i j«33i3Dn jo poN'vii^ra'iaM© m^ 
■>''3-iflv3 ':ip v.^JVO-jy^ "'•j-ipnsw viSViyi 
Kw Sji •• onsT rtff^v ifito -rays 'OKI 'rS'jijr 
iVj-1.1 Vrn 1JA3 'liciipMt (ifi'fvs O'Tsnn VuS] 
rpco Kco*! nWpw'JDOTQXsfW'j.Tno 
fnt:>OT'-i''ijna3'si'pni<DiD''3i#) pSiSypia 
^-l■i02■'^3 'ai I3n ta D33S3 niia miksiIi Mfl3 
-!i2j73 ipMiijn ma pwA npijxi wt niN'Wji 
'CKi Si7 isy iriSyn ijnp nay3 »riS'iij;i Sh •3^f) 
.■^l■•Vl>nn^^»,-l^'^J jjr).T";ii'Sj7piSja>t 
ir.K Txn KV»i - o<ip "'n^jr K-iij nta nj" =^ 'ii 
lUM rrM wxi jiBDio Nmi pAjii NTi) ■■hs -wn 
pro 'spi niiD'OKmnnn'i ynSorAnnnvn 
n3iB03 '■,i-an:iD33'iS3 "0'i7>"V'>>*''*''SM 
JO *>« r.zv.e\iior) ■^D '3 izv vSn^ "WW© 
r-<'fl'xi Tira >'a»iD3'3V(!«on3ipon-Bsir» 
pi sinapwmar 'S3DWi«i,-n '■twb"''')W 
'aS '•Dr-T 3ni."t mnS pjirctt; ni3,T \^v3 
Voa 'ji;n'B>nBiD'"^Vi'')yn'niiiS nono 
3P3pnm;oi'inn3%roj'n^B03')^V'''3W'3S 



Sj7fl p'yp Nil' Vvs p'va " cms ■■ n'rjvn 
ni'x 13 Sajo xn Syprn nSiyn V tmi -ma 
nnt< Kipa N*" "I'Bp iDKi isni p'l'ns en riSv3 
t*va [o Tovn N»i3 110 nnr kvt r,c:n 'ota '3 
cij» W)rpj?'33D"i3'jna3npV'onaii7 inx 
jiicrii' vy3iC(<S3 Ty nprmvDinn 
ji-ii Syflnjiynv.T 1130,13 vwp' 

" ijira "nanAtPiy ".n'ofn3"Diiv3''3i« 
N*" ■■ oiuajt " nnS cpry D' ©"jiji irn mNinsT 
•u'jyi iDfln [B 13'W irrcna ":3b;p " tv3K3k 
ana rai'ii" D'7t;iT3DN'3nirKTV3(i3!<.';'> 
TVS N3RiAasi«»3j;^wiappni''io3E.'3 
iBNB-n3M nrS-pxini DiFB'jSsSj'N'iwi'n 

i-lV'TnVl"l3I|11»'?31'J>JI31 "PnpT3Tp3 

rpiyD -iiwi nns Ss poflj n'w nnyi 'a '3 -.Pin' 
©11 Tw TBK Dvn Sy i;i po') TD^ia pr" 
vynoiBNinvci-vioa i3W3 axTDivciaS 

'jnownl ■ 'i!D' " B>1V ^3n 'Ml w'lDl 'fl1331 13 

Ty 1 inK jijyi mfl 'JW3 iiy iinwa " P:''yf ■ niy 
[a-iiy'jvi («iaTym'fl"3rfr tS-(<o-is ma 
'fS» DiiT? w©')© ''p casn "P'l; I •' nijiw 
WJV> " ji'cp-i " ni'r fSj") nox 'jyen py irDn3i 
Nian Sj7 DJ pipVi m ^flji (op nua nanh 
manrn n'n p.3DXia5 1* narSnanKTS.'TO 
■nan ]'3td'b n3 Vr nawff 103 nansn pea 
iTasSyo'V ^« -jnanmcnnyni-my'j 
Day wiy enMinwsi JJi^-oran 
uaacia-nSyam ■ D'osynnTKanw 
D'D3y3 TOOpwpn •r'j;B'"nKi3yngrp'«i3i 

©piPj-aNinwa'jwySsanNipj poii on^iTa 
cir3 OTTi " '!•&» Sis TDio hs oayai p wa 
twc "YiKn ive'3NT3y -02? 'I"?' 
tn'n"Ti3y"j"a(iri3-'rPK orroy 

m nrKn " d'bidd - 'isya nri nxi - rtj?' • run 
c'Sj> n3y3'3i<3iSya3m"0':ip-'»nw'>T3il> 
ttv '3 ana nii' '■''> •■ •'iw) " may i y«n rvoanai 
p3y m'']y D'osonna'aanivaaAi'vainD 
cp'iHiy rijm-'jViy'VTire' SSw -TiifniCT 
laa -pa'ft 'paviVnyKsi onV Akw 

urnp -wanv D'jppn bi "Oiip • trpJi^ QiVjip 
TB313 'ay ny ntai " 010' Viy f a uiaTD nAon 
r3Din3 -ny-wnniDBraDina Tstn «nn> -Vnyo 



A page oi Kjinki's Book ot R.oots 
Katorzi, Naples, 1491 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

giveth goodly words concerning customs and im- 
portant decisions. Therefore have I set my hand 
to these drippings of the honeycomb, these words 
of pleasantness."* 

The press of Naples was silenced by the mo- 
mentous events of the year 1492. When the 
Jews of Spain hadlanded at Naples a plague broke 
out among them; this has scarcely abated when 
Charles VIII. of France entered Naples and put 
it to the sword. In this misery and tumult the 
entire Jewish community of Naples was dissolved 
and the fate of its printers is sealed in eternal 
darkness. Whether Joshua Solomon Soncino died 
in Naples, or fleeing survived these fearsome events 
is unknown. Probably he met his death; other- 
wise he must have taken refuge at Brescia with his 
nephew Gerson, in whose books his name would 
have appeared. In 1520 there were no Hebrew 
types left in Naples, for in the book of Benedicto 
de Falco published in that year on the Hebrew 
Latin and Greek alphabets, the names of Hebrew 
letters are given in Latin.f Soon after this the 
Jews were expelled from Naples by royal decree 
and for nearly three hundred years Naples lay 
outside the pale of Jewish history. It was not 

* Approbations were unknown during the Middle Ages and books 
passed on their merits. The approbation was an invention of Christian 
clergy, intended to guarantee the orthodoxy of the work; the Hebrew 
approbation or Haskamah followed. Perles "Beitrage" p. 202 states 
that the approbation to Elijah Levita's "Bahur" Rome, 1518 is the 
first. This is an error. 

t Schwab, p. 84. 

[68] 



THE SONS OF SONCINO 



until the settlement there of five or six Jews in the 
early part of the nineteenth century that the 
foundations were laid for a new congregation of 
Israel in this beautiful but unfortunate city. 



[69] 



CHAPTER IV. 

GERSON SONCINO (1488-1497). 

Milan and Venice — The Name of Gerson — His Biogra- 
phers — His Character and Achievements — The First Illus- 
trated Book — At Brescia — War and Persecution — At Barco 
— Expurgation — Gerson the Wanderer — At Venice — Padre 
Georgi. 

THE Jews who entered the Duchy of Milan 
after the vaHant soldier and wise adminis- 
trator Francesco Sforza had permitted Samuel 
Mentzlan to settle at Soncino, were sent forth 
into exile through the unwisdom of his son the 
usurping Lodovico II Moro.* Among the wan- 
derers from this land of persecution two figures 
attract our attention, Joshua Solomon Soncino 
bidding farewell to his nephew and fellow-crafts- 
man Gerson, and journeying to far Naples — Ger- 
son, after a short struggle to retain a hold in his 
native city, also grasping the wanderer's staff, 
turning his back on Soncino forever to find a 
temporary home in Brescia under the protection 
of the winged lion of St. Mark. We have followed 
Joshua Solomon to Naples, where he had hoped 
to escape persecution and find a peaceful home, 
and we know how the events of the year 1492 and 
the wars following the invasion of Charles VIII 
shattered his dreams, how in the final capture of 
Naples the Jewish community was broken and 
scattered and the devoted printer probably laid 

* Sacchi, p. 51. 

[701 



GERSON SONCINO 



among the unknown dead whose unmarked graves 
were the only reHcs of the once flourishing com- 
munity of Jews in that fateful city. 

What of the other survivor of the house of 
Soncino? Lodovico Sforza, though wise and skill- 
ful enough to wrest the throne of Milan from its 
lawful possessor, was blind to the advantage that 
the Jews were to his Duchy, an advantage that 
was quite clear to the unscrupulous but versatile 
intelligence of his father Francesco. As the de- 
cline of Spain commences with the period of the 
expulsion of her Jews, so the independence and 
sovereignty of Milan were forfeited at the time 
when she drove from her soil these, who were 
among her best citizens. Only blind Chauvinism 
sees in these events cause and effect, but fair judg- 
ment will not deny that the persecution and exile 
of the Jews were symptomatic of political inepti- 
tude and were the result of a policy based on far- 
reaching evils. In 1500 Lodovico lost his throne 
the Duchy its independence and thereafter for 
three hundred and fifty years it was alternately 
held by France Germany Spain and Austria until 
it was finally incorporated with the present king- 
dom of Italy. In 1541 the Emperor Charles V 
confirmed the ancient privileges of those Jews that 
had returned after Lodovico' s decree of exile and 
in 1597 they were again driven into exile.* 

Westernmost of the Venetian territories on the 
boundary of Milan lay Brescia, the nearest great 

*H. B. 1 : 18. 



[71 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

city to which the wandering Gerson Soncino could 
turn. Here he was temporarily safe under the pro- 
tection of the Venetian Podesta, whose dignity 
like that of the ancient Roman procurator was 
derived from the great power of which he was the 
representative. Of all the territories tributary to 
Venice, none was more valuable to her than 
Brescia "the armed," for from her workshops 
famed for centuries and even to our own day came 
the most splendid specimens of the armorer's art, 
the weapons of war so valiantly used by the island 
republic in her many wars of conquest and defense. 
Like Ancient Rome, Venice stretched forth a 
grasping arm across sea and land for territorial 
sovereignty; her capital was a world city whose 
cosmopolitanism saved her from many of those 
excesses that disgraced more provincial and fanati- 
cal communities; her great trade saved her from 
insular narrowness; in her harbor lay the ships 
of all nations; on her piazzas met the representa- 
tives of all the world. Although the Church was 
likewise imperial in theory and practice and 
sought to lay the entire world under her dominion, 
she differed in one fundamental characteristic from 
Venice. For whereas the Church notwithstanding 
her universal empire touching all climes and times 
remained rigid intolerant and self -sufficient, 
Venice respected the opinion of others and looked 
with dignified tolerance upon those who differed 
from her in dress speech thought or religion.* Her 

* Graetz, 8 : 234. 

[72] 



GERSON SONCINO 



commercial prosperity instead of chaining her to 
the dull routine of mere money-making, expanded 
her ideas and enlightened her mind by contact 
with all the world, and during the fifteenth cen- 
tury even after the Ghetto gates were erected for 
them, the Jews of Venice enjoyed many privileges 
denied them by other States, excepting always 
those that patterned their policy after the brilliant 
example of the great Venetian republic. 

Before following the fortunes of Gerson Soncino 
in his wanderings through Italy, let us pause a 
moment to look back at his early career in the 
city whose name he bore. We shall call him 
Gerson Soncino, although in the synagogue he 
was called to the law as Gershom ben Mosheh, 
and in his non-Jewish books he calls himself 
Hieronymus.* Ordinarily it may not be worth 
while to dwell on a mere name, but we are now 
speaking of the man who although not first in 
time was first in importance among Hebrew 
printers, and who for upwards of fifty years 
during several of which he was the only Hebrew 
printer in the world, printed about one hundred 

* Soave, p. 12, citing S. D. Luzzatto, states that Joseph Almanzi 
first discovered the identity of Gerson and Hieronymus Soncinoi 
Manzoni points out that his Hebrew name is Gershom, (not Gershon, 
as in Jew. Enc. article "Soncino") and that the following forms of the 
name have been used by the bibliographers: — Gereshom, Gershom, 
Gersham, Gersam, Jersam, Gershon, Gerson and in Italian Gersone. 
Manzoni himself calls him Gershom. I have followed Sacchi and 
Steinschneider and call him Gerson. His Italian biographer Sacchi, 
his ear attuned to the music of Italian speech, preferred "Gersone" 
or "Gerson" to "Gershom" and it is not unlikely that he was so 
called even in his lifetime. 

[73] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

and fifty Hebrew Latin and Italian books, many 
of them of great size, many of them of great im- 
portance, all of them distinguished by brilliant 
execution and careful scholarly editing. 

It is difficult to value a great man's career, 
since admiration for its brilliance is apt to lead into 
exaggeration of its importance; but the most tem- 
perate judgment will not deny the importance of 
Gerson's service to scholarship and the cultivation 
of good taste and to the development of the spirit 
of toleration and brotherhood between Jew and 
non-Jew, which is now the shining distinction of 
Italy. In modern Italy alone of all the great 
Christian nations of the continent anti-Semitism 
is unknown, and the citizen and patriot is judged 
by a truer standard than that which considers his 
attendance at synagogue or cathedral. In his 
lifetime Gerson consorted freely with his Christian 
fellows, and it is through this intercourse that we 
know of some of the most interesting episodes in 
his life. His life has likewise attracted the at- 
tention of Christian scholars, and indeed almost 
all that we know of him is due to the work of 
three of them the indefatigable and zealous church- 
man De Rossi,* the learned and cultured noble- 
man Manzoni,t and the scholarly litterateur Sac- 

* 1742-1831. Appointed in 1769 Professor of Orientalia at 
Parma; for biographical sketch see Jew. Enc. 10 : 486. 

")■ 1816-1889. Count Giacomo Manzoni commenced collection of 
Hebrew books at age of fourteen. Studied Hebrew and became an 
enthusiastic scholar and friend of the Jews and a defender of their 
rights. Berliner, "Aus meiner Bibliothek" p. IV. note. 

[74] 






nppaN'i} npq^'N3 
o'Qtfri nnspa 

J<ppni flvnrn 

J/i3»3ie mi*ir|«3 

WM/i*: YPi'M 
KW/iai O'n'Taa 



t 



-vfi'fripii i'3j;aV>3 

l3i»3 piarn; 

3w\»anai 
rjiiia rn'^rrn 



lain'^ia laiKT^i 

T.TiaTJO "wan 
K4;afi>i ODiinfin^ 'i*!^^!! nano* 

T^^njn T^aajiii'n 

o''3Vu iyat{'ia» 

•na«j<hi hfspii'a 

KWM 0BV1/\»1 TKSIVI na/iB> 

"iVirffl^wa '^^=f!01 

A'paripNi ii'»jn ]'*<■! 
Vic>a3]>^«3 vjtnapn 

'ifinT<tt)»|i3 Jifiiajnai 
n^lniSK 'T};rrn'i 



*«WflJJ oaiwi 



Ktoafii oainfi'i nxflivi nanio 



1313/irn pwri 

q3»an>ai qaort'e* 
•jNflniaa ^^oani 



«fi>3M oan/i'i iNfln>i nan©» 



» PDanirtJ^JufeiPKPBfiiJBWWiPpTi^icii')};! ^J-Diwcjpjtrpw*) 



A page irom the Matzi 
SozLcino, 1486 



lor 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

chi,* and lest we be accused of ingratitude to a 
great Jewish scholar, let us at this time acknowl- 
edge the debt we owe to the incomparable work of 
Moritz Steinschneider, who in his "Judische 
Literatur" "Jiidische Typographic and Jiidischer 
Buchhandel" and his innumerable works in He- 
brew Bibliography has built a monument that 
shall endure as long as Hebrew books are read. 
As a nonagenarian he was still working with the 
same devotion as when fifty-five years ago he 
wrote of Gerson Soncino, "the true founder of the 
typographical fame of the family of the Soncinati," 
and he has but lately been called to eternal rest 
after a life of extraordinary activity and usefulness. 
The history of the Soncino press may be traced 
for four generations in Italy and Turkey, but its 
true fame rests as this greatest of Hebrew bibliog- 
raphers has said on the work of Gerson. As the 
synagogues of Italy show the influence of church 
architecture, so the Hebrew books of Italy bear 
unmistakable evidence of its artistic atmosphere. 
The presses of Gerson Soncino were set up in the 
cities where Bellini, Perugino, Mantegna and Giulio 
Romano painted ; his types were cut by Francesco 
Griffo one of the greatest engravers of his time ; he 
sought the patronage of Cesare Borgia, the Sforza 
the Rovere and the Gonzaga and considered himself 

* Federico Sacchi published "i tipografi ebrei di Soncino" at 
Cremona 1877. He made investigations in British Museum and his 
preface is dated at London. I am not quite sure that he was not a 
Jew. See also Soave "Dei Soncino celebri tipografi italiani dei secoli 
XV. e XVI" Venice 1878. 

[76] 



GERSON SONCINO 



the rival of the great Aldo Manuzio. He went on 
journeys of exploration to distant cities seeking 
rare manuscripts and the society of learned scholars 
brilliant artists and celebrated priests. We find 
him in far-off Geneva and Cambrai, as well as in 
the brilliant environs of Padua and Venice, forti- 
fying his talent with new ideas and bringing fresh 
inspiration to his work. 

This intellectual strength and aesthetic taste 
did not chill his sympathy for the poor and op- 
pressed, and it was not in vain that the victims 
of persecution appealed to his warm human interest. 
The virtues of his ancestry and the grace of mind 
and manner that was a blend of his Italian and 
Jewish culture, enabled him throughout his ex- 
traordinarily long career to suffer with equanimity 
"the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" and 
to continue on his way with undiminished powers 
and hopefulness. Faithful to his ideal in his 
work, true to the call of his suffering kin, he re- 
mained steadfast in the faith of his fathers* bear- 
ing privation oppression and contumely, rather 
than speak the few words at the baptismal font 
that would have given him rest and riches and 
honor. True to his work his blood and his faith, 
he was loyal to the country that had exiled him, 
for when in the evening of his life he with many 
co-religionists left beautiful Italy and sought a 

♦Among his teachers were the French Rabbis Belvegna Trabot 
Mirabelle and Moses Bazla to whose influence he bears testimony 
later in his career. Sacchi p. 25. 



[77] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

new home under the Crescent of Mohammed, he 
ever after looked back with tearful longing to the 
land of his birth misruled by the Vicar of Christ. 
The father and uncle of Gerson, Moses and 
Joshua Solomon sons of Israel Nathan Soncino 
were the founders of the press that bore their name. 
Israel Nathan was the inspirer of the enterprise 
Joshua Solomon the chief printer. Solomon son 
of Moses a brother of Gerson was also associated 
with the work and all these together with Gerson 
formed a notable printing house united by blood 
and affection and a common zeal for the "holy 
work." The first work bearing the name of Gerson 
is the "Great Book of the Commandments" of 
Moses of Coucy, issued in 1488 while the family 
was yet united, Israel Nathan and his son Moses 
yet alive and Joshua Solomon not yet gone to 
Naples. It seems that although Joshua Solomon's 
name appears in most of the books of the first five 
years of the press, the others were entitled to an 
equal share of the credit of their production and it 
may be that the younger men after serving their 
apprenticeship were rewarded by permission to 
attach their names to an occasional publication. 
Thus while Gerson appears as the printer of the 
Book of Moses of Coucy, his brother Solomon in 
1490 appears as the printer of a new edition of that 
other great law book, the Turim of Jacob ben 
Asher. Gerson's grandfather Israel Nathan and 
his father Moses died within a year, his uncle 
Joshua Solomon went to Naples, and the ties of 

[78] 



GERSON SONCINO 



home thus broken Gerson yielded to sHght pressure 
and departed for Brescia. He had already printed 
two fine books, another great law book the "Strong 
Hand" of Maimonides in 1490 and a collection of 
allegories and fables in rhymed prose entitled 
"Ancient Fable" (Meshal Hakadmoni) by Isaac 
Ibn Sahula, in both of which the art of the illus- 
trator was applied in decided violation of the 
traditional interpretation of the second com- 
mandment. The book of fables lent itself readily 
to pictorial representation of beasts and birds and 
men; in the law book the illustration consisted of 
decorated initial letters, an arabesque title border 
and the use of figures such as an angel with a 
spear directed toward a devil's head and two 
angels on either side of a wreath* Without abate- 
ment of his interest in Judaism Gerson published 
with Olympian impartiality the most absurd monk- 
ish tales, Catholic books of devotion and books 
which set forth all the pretensions to infallibility 
that characterized medieval Christianity. f 

For four years Gerson Soncino dwelt in Brescia 
and printed Bibles and prayer books, and there is 
great significance in the character of the produc- 
tions of his press. When men are in daily terror 

*Z. H. B.8 -.SB. 

t Gerson's brother Solomon seems, to have continued the press 
at Soncino. In 1495 three books appeared bearing his name, a Mahzor, 
a Prayer book and a book of penitential prayers. Perhaps the edition 
of Talm. Bezah of 1493 is also to be ascribed to him. According to 
Sacchi (p. 16). Solomon died in 1490, but this seems to be disproved 
by the books of 1495. 



[79] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

of their lives and in fear of the confiscating hand of 
the oppressor they have no incUnation for the 
delights of literature, unless they belong to that 
very small class of higher natures who like the 
philosopher of old can live in the free world of 
spirit while their bodies lie bound in chains. In 
conditions of great trial and tribulation men pray 
but they do not study, they possess Bibles and 
prayer books but no libraries. As long as the Jew 
lived like his ancestors in Egypt with his loins 
girded his shoes on his feet and his staff in his 
hand, waiting the approach of a fanatical mob or 
the soldiers of some confiscating prince, a library 
of books and devotion to scholarship remained to 
him merely a millennial dream. Hence it was not 
until the end of the seventeenth century that large 
Hebrew libraries began to be formed, and even then 
only in some specially favored communities. The 
first book printed by Gerson Soncino at Brescia 
was a work of pure literature, the first and also the 
last of its class printed by him during those four 
years, the Mahberot of Immanuel of Rome a col- 
lection of poems novels epigrams and parodies. 
The books that followed were the necessities of 
the religious rather than the luxuries of the intel- 
lectual life. He printed Pentateuchs, from which 
the weekly portions were read in the synagogue, 
Psalms, always a favorite with those in affliction, 
prayer books for daily devotion, and penitential 
prayers for fast days now specially desired in 
these times of universal affliction and persecution. 

[80] 



GERSON SONCINO 



The Brescia Bible of 1494 is a notable book. It 
was the text used by Luther in making his trans- 
lation, and the great reformer's copy is now in the 
Royal Library at Berlin.* 

On the broad board of Italian politics the Jews 
were insignificant pawns. Kings bishops and 
knights great and small keen-witted and unscrupu- 
lous, were playing the fascinating game of politics 
in which moves were guided by intrigue, plots met 
by war and counterplot. Sword in hand and lie 
on lip they faced each other, and chief among them 
all for unscrupulous faithlessness was the greatest 
of them Pope Alexander VI the famous or infamous 
Roderigo Borgia. The peace of Italy was des- 
troyed; Charles VIII of France marched into 
Milan and destroyed the equilibrium of the entire 
peninsula; the Medici were expelled from Florence 
and Naples was taken. Finally the great league 
of Pope Emperor and Doge assisted by many of the 
minor powers, met and drove back the conquering 
Frenchman. Fighting was continuous, and in the 
trail of war came those barbarities worse than 
death itself. In the midst of these terrors by day 

* There are but few copies of this book in existence. In 1896 but 
two copies were known. BerUner, "Einfluss" p. 4. In 1904 we hear 
of seven. Jew. Enc. Art. "Incunabula."' The Prophets and Hagio- 
grapha of this edition are inexact in accents; this branch of Hebrew 
grammar was not developed until later. H. B. 1 : 41. It must have 
been one of the Soncino editions that is referred to in the following 
entry in the Diary of Marino Sanuto " 17 July 1509. On the way to 
my house I met a man having a beautiful Hebrew Bible on good paper 
value 20 ducats, who sold it to me as a favor for one raarzello : I took 
it to place it in my library." 



[81 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

and terrors by night, Gerson Soncino continued 
at the work of his press, making prayer books and 
penitential Htanies for the agonized worshipers 
of the God of Israel. Even these books were in 
paltry demand, for as he complained the Sacred 
Scriptures were forgotten, readers were scarce and 
purchasers few, desolation and misery reigned in 
all the cities; through his art he hoped to supply 
the text books for students, for the copyists had 
ceased their work through persecution and suffer- 
ing.* Suddenly we find that he has again taken 
flight and has set up his press at Barco. Here too 
the first work of his press was a volume of Selihot 
(penitential prayers), but his second the last book 
printed by him for five years was the Talmudic 
treatise "Courts" (Sanhedrin), dealing with the 
constitution and procedure of courts and the sub- 
stance of criminal law. In this publication Gerson 
showed how wisely he read the signs of the times. 
Even in the cities in which they were most favored 
the Jews were simply tolerated, and the wise man 
sought refuge behind the sheltering wall of ob- 
scurity, for to attract attention was dangerous 
often fatal, — to criticise the practice or theory of 
the Church or the State was suicide. Therefore 
Gerson following the practice of many scribes and 
of his uncle Joshua Solomon Soncino, carefully 
edited this Talmudic treatise "Courts," expurgat- 
ing passages or words likely to offend some Chris- 
tian adversary, even taking liberties with ancient 

* Epigraph to Brescia Bible. 

[82] 



GERSON SONCINO 



texts by substituting inoffensive phrases for dan- 
gerous ones. There was as yet no official censor- 
ship by the Church; that chapter in the history 
of human folly had yet to be written, but many 
Hebrew books had drawn the fire of ecclesiastical 
condemnation by reason of comparatively harm- 
less and perfectly natural anti-Christian senti- 
ments. Thus the commentary of Kimhi on the 
Psalms first published at Bologna in 1477 con- 
tained the learned author's bold protests against 
the arrogance of the faith that claimed all truth 
for itself and condemned all else as damnable 
error. When Rashi explained the meaning of the 
word "Goyim" as "disciples of Jesus of Nazareth"* 
he little suspected the burden of woe that he was 
thereby preparing for posterity, for the hatred of 
Jewish apostates as well as of unlearned ecclesias- 
tics seeing in every use of the word "Goi" a direct 
reflection upon the Christian religion, triumphantly 
pointed to the authority of Rashi acknowledged as 
the greatest of Jewish commentators. So that in 
later years, when the ardent persecution of He- 
brew books had become common, it became neces- 
sary in many cities to publish some such pathetic 
disclaimer of guilt as the following: "Be it known 
that if the reader finds in this book the word 'Goi' 
or 'strange worship,' or the like, it refers to the 
nations who lived in the days of the sages of the 
Talmud, who were the worshipers of stars and 
constellations, who denied Providence resurrec- 

* Popper, p. 21. 



83 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

tion of the dead and the law of Moses ; but it does 
not refer to the nations of bur own time among 
whom we dwell, who observe justice and righteous- 
ness and believe in Providence and the law of 
Moses and the prophets, a faith which should 
bring blessings upon them, and not a curse, God 
forbid." Wherefore, Gerson Soncino drew his pen 
through Rashi's explanation of "Goi," and to 
make it clear that Christians were not meant wrote 
"Those who do not believe in the law of Moses 
which he received from Heaven," a phrase to 
which none could take exception, for even the 
Popes were wont to say to the delegation of Roman 
Jews who came to congratulate them on entering 
upon their pontificate, "The Holy Law we praise 
and honor, ye Hebrews, for it was given unto your 
forefathers by Almighty God through the hand of 
Moses."* 

Notwithstanding Gerson's care in expurgating 
his edition of "Sanhedrin," it met the common fate 
of Hebrew books, and to-day there is only one 
known copy, once the property of Rabbi Isaac 
Pardo of Verona, now in the collection of the 
British Museum. 

After this service to his people, Gerson Soncino 

* Part of the reply of Pope Leo X to the delegation of Jews. The 
rest of the reply is as follows: — "Your observance and interpretation 
of it we condemn and disapprove, since the Apostolic Creed teaches 
the advent of the Messiah, whom you still vainly expect, and preaches 
our Lord Jesus Christ, who lives with the father and the holy ghost 
and reigns as God for all eternity." Vogelstein and Rieger "Geschichte 
der Juden in Rom " IL 33. 

[84] 



GERSON SONCINO 



apparently himself became a victim to the stress 
and strife of the time, and for five years from 1497 
to 1502 his press was silent. During these last two 
years of his work in Brescia and Barco he was the 
only Hebrew printer in the world ; all of the other 
presses of Italy had ceased, and those in Spain and 
Portugal were silenced forever, the Constantinople 
press did not begin until 1503, and in Northern 
Europe no press was established until 1513 when 




A Typical S 



ypicai CJoncmo 



initial ■word 



Gerson Cohen ben Solomon began to print at 
Prague.* The darkness of these five years in the 
history of Gerson the wanderer t is intensified by 
the insignificant fragments of information that 
have come down to us. We know that he did not 
remain at Barco nor even in Italy, but wandered 
northward into France and Switzerland visiting 
various Jewish communities and consorting with 

* Zunz "Zur Geschichte und Literatur" p. 261. 
t Depping p. 380. 

[85] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

their scholars and scribes. For notwithstanding 
the establishment of the printing press in Italy 
Spain and Portugal, books still continued to be 
multiplied by the slow process of the pen of the 
scribe. Hebrew manuscripts, always compara- 
tively rare by reason of the time and care required 
in their production, had now become extremely rare 
in Italy, and after the persecution of Hebrew books 
was thoroughly organized in the sixteenth cen- 
tury they disappeared almost completely. There- 
fore when Gerson found a manuscript in some 
out of the way corner of France or Switzer- 
land he purchased it to take back to Italy, in the 
hope that he might some day be permitted to 
resume his work. At some time during this period 
he lived at Venice and was attached to the ancient 
patrician House of Tiepolo whose palaces bearing 
two obelisks on the roofs, may still be seen on the 
Grand Canal. It was probably at this time that 
he met Aldo Manuzio, whose house on the Campo 
Sant' Agostino was near the palace of the "gran 
cavaliere", Bajamonte Tiepolo* and there arose 
between the two great printers an animosity, 
whose traces we shall see when we take up Gerson' s 
activity at Fano. And here too he made another 
friend the Franciscan Padre Francesco Georgi to 
whom the first book published by him at Fano 
was dedicated by his corrector and friend Lorenzo 
Astemio.f The Padre Georgi was one of many 

* Clement "Queen of the Adriatic" p. 326. 
t Manzoni "Annates" part II p. ISO. 

[86] 



GERSON SONCINO 



Christian Hebraists entangled in the meshes of the 
Cabbala, that mystical science whose only real 
service has been the reconciliation of many Jews 
and non-Jews, who but for this union of interest 
might never have been brought together. In this 
way the Cabbala has served to help on the millen- 
nial day when the lion and the lamb shall lie down 
together.* 

In studying the history of Gerson Soncino 
nothing is more to be regretted than the absence 
of any record of these five years of his wander- 
ings. What an incalculably valuable book of travels 
he might have written, illuminating many dark 
pages, not only of Jewish history but of the general 
history of the times. For after all there is little 
known of the history of the people of the end of 
the fifteenth century, and our sources of informa- 
tion consist largely of the gossip of courts the 
records of military enterprises the debates of 
clergymen upon theological abstractions and the 
memoirs of the dilettanti in literature. Of the 
people we know nothing; they had no history, 
they existed merely for the purpose of furnishing 
soldiers and money for their rulers. Hence the 
chronicles of the times are meagre in those details, 
the customs the manners daily life and habits of 
the people that would be to us of supreme im- 
portance,! What happened to Gerson on his 

* Manzoni p. S. 

t We have too few records to enable us to render an adequate 
verdict on the civil status of the Jews of this epoch in other parts 
of Italy. Depping "Die Juden im Mittelalter," p. 363. 



[87] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

wanderings, whom did he meet and converse with, 
what befell him at the inns on the roadside in the 
academies of learning at the houses of scholars 
and merchants and in the humbler habitations of 
his poorer brethren? There is left to us only a 
vast regret that a man so rich in intellectual gifts 
and so broad in his sympathies should have missed 
the opportunity to record these precious impres- 
sions of men and affairs and have left us practically 
nothing except a fleeting reference in the epigraph 
to one or two of his books. 



[88] 



CHAPTER V. 

GERSON SONCINO (1501-1512). 

At Fano — Caesar Borgia— Why Gerson Went to Fano — 
Gerson Soncino Becomes Hieronymus Soncinus — Lorenzo 
Astemio Edits Soncino's Latin and Italian Books — Gerson's 
Dedication of Petrarca to Caesar Borgia — His Rivalry with 
Aldo Manuzio — The Engraver Francesco Griffo and the 
Origin of Aldine Types — His Patroness the Lady Ginevra 
Sforza of Pesaro — Gerson Removes to Pesaro — He Becomes 
the Printer of Municipal Statutes — The Death of the Lord of 
Pesaro and Its Union with Urbino — The Intercourse between 
Jew and Christian — The Reuchlin Controversy and the 
Talmud — Morality of the Jews — The Origin of Mantegna's 
"Madonna della Vittoria" — Gerson Publishes Works of 
Savonarola — Writes an "Introduction to Hebrew Letters" — 
Sells Books at Perugia. 

IN the year 1501 our Jewish traveler passed 
under the old triumphal Arch of Augustus, and 
found himself at the city gate of Fano. He had 
wandered far and wide through the less hospitable 
plains of France and highlands of Switzerland, and 
at last had come back to "il bel paese," the land 
of his birth. From Venice where he had found 
noble patrons in the house of Tiepolo, he at last 
turned southward into the duchy of Urbino, whose 
capital city Duke Guidobaldo had made the meet- 
ing place of the choicest spirits of Italy. No longer 
did the noble house of Montefeltre bear sway, 
for a new master had arisen Cesare Borgia the 
famous son of the reigning Pope Alexander VI. 
Since 1497 the Duke of Romagna as he was en- 

[89] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

titled by his father, was mastering the Marches 
and developing ambitious schemes whose fruition 
was to make him the most powerful prince in Italy. 
Pesaro Rimini Faenza Forli and Fano had fallen 
before him, and the citizens of Fano had shown 
their loyalty to the usurper, whose rule they found 
lighter than that of their legitimate sovereign, by 
successfully defending the city against Duke 
Guidobaldo's attempt to retake it. For this they 
had been loaded with favors and pontifical privi- 
leges.* The policy of Borgia like that of all 
tyrants, was to conciliate the people while un- 
dermining the power of their rulers. The Jews of 
Fano of whom there were many enjoyed the favor 
of the terrible Borgia, who like the Malatesti of 
old treated them kindly and used their intelligence 
for the advantage of the State. Indeed thrice had 
the Malatesti suffered excommunication for their 
defiance of the Papal wishes regarding the treat- 
ment of their Jews.f Of course the son of the 
Pope with his father's statecraft before him had 
to fear no such danger, for the Pope acting as a 
temporal sovereign had received the Jews in his 
territories because of their value to his State at 
the very time when as head of the Church he had 
sanctioned their exile from Spain and Portugal be- 
cause they were enemies of Christ. The policy of 
the princes of Italy simple enough though in its 
development it often appeared intricate and ob- 

* Sacchi p. 52 n. 24. 
t Jew. Enc. S : 340. 

[90] 



GERSON SONCINO 



scure, is best known through the name of its 
ablest scientific exponent MachiavelH, and in the 
words of this crafty Florentine was designed "to 
secure the ruler against enemies, to gain himself 
friends, to overcome opposition by force or fraud, 
to make himself beloved or feared by the people and 
reverenced by the soldiers, to destroy and extermi- 
nate such as would injure him ... to make 
kings or princes either obliged to requite him or 
afraid to ofif end him."* And as an example worthy 
of imitation, Machiavelli points to Cesare Borgia 
as the freshest and best model for princes. 

What led our printer to Fano, into the jaws of 
the tyrant Borgia? Evidently contemporary opin- 
ion was not unanimous in condemning him and 
indeed there must have been something attractive 
in his personality or his rule to have warranted 
Gerson in placing himself and his art at his dis- 
posal. Why did Gerson not remain at Venice and 
seek to establish a Hebrew press there in the very 
heart of the world of letters, where he had friends 
and patrons. Perhaps it was lack of funds to buy 
the necessary privilege from the Signoria, perhaps 
it was the strength of Aldo's influence that pre- 
vented him from becoming the first of the Hebrew 
printers of Venice. After he had been established 
at Fano, he gives as a reason for settling in that 
city that he was pleased "with the air, the site and 
the fertility of your devoted city of Fano and the 
friendliness and wit of its inhabitants." Strange 

* Machiavelli "The Prince" Chap. VII. 



[91] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

reasons indeed; fair enough in a letter to the 
reigning prince, but hardly convincing to us who 
know Gerson. He was not seeking fresh air and 
pleasant company, but was making a choice of a 
home under pressure of the stern law of necessity. 
It is true that Venice had many flourishing presses 
and Fano had none,* but even this alone was not 
a sufficient reason for the change. Who can doubt 
that he would have preferred brilliant Venice full 
of scholars and booklovers the book market of all 
the world, to Fano lately torn by fierce civil war 
and now under the rule of a prince whose presence 
was an invitation for plots and intrigues and pos- 
sible war, the quintessence of instability, the very 
opposite of that peace and quiet needed for his 
work. Although Gerson printed all his Latin and 
Italian books in Fano under the name of Hierony- 
mus Soncinus, he must have been known to be a 
Jew, for he printed Hebrew books and lived as a 
Jew, and as he had many friends and patrons 
among Christian scholars and literati who helped 
to make his exile bearable,t we may infer the 
friendliness of the Fanesians toward the Jews. 
He seems to have gained the good will of the 
Spanish Cardinal of Santa Balbina, the Apostolic 
Delegate in the Romagna, who notwithstanding 
that Spain had exiled and killed and baptized all 

* Manzoni p. 14. 

t His Hebrew name hyphenated showed that he considered him- 
self an exile: Ger-shom "dwelling there as the stranger." Henceforth 
Gerson always used the hyphenated form of his name in his Hebrew 
books. 

[92] 



GERSON SONCINO 



her Jews, graciously favored Gerson's plans to set 
up a printing press at Fano.* One of his earliest 
friends was Lorenzo Astemio of Macerata former 
librarian of Duke Guidobaldo of Urbino.f who 
had after the rise of Borgia left Urbino and settled 
at Fano^as a teacher of grammar. He edited and 
corrected the Latin and Italian books printed by 
SoncinoJ and in many a phrase in dedicatory 
letters to various patrons showed his esteem for 




Initial -words from Soncino s Manzor 

the Jewish craftsman. Even in September 1503 
"when all Italy was clashing with tumult" 
Astemio exhorted all who had unpublished manu- 
scripts of good Latinity to send them to Hierony- 
mus Soncinus, so that being printed by so well 
known a man the owner of the book should be 
honorably remembered by posterity.^ 

*See dedication of Petrarca 1503 to Cesare Borgia, 
t Manzoni p. 60. 
t Manzoni p. 6. 

If Introduction to Palaemon's "Ars grammaticae" Fano 1503. 
Manaoni p. 43. 

[93] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Gerson's first book at Fano was a collection of 
Latin authors, principally fathers of the church, 
and the new era* began with the publication of 
Cyprian's "Cross of the Lord" Lactantius "Re- 
surrection of Christ" Pope Pius IPs "Hymn to the 
Virgin Mary" and the like. Lorenzo Astemio 
lauded the work in a letter to Soncino's friend 
Padre Francesco Giorgi, no doubt gaining the 
goodwill of churchmen for his patron the Jew who 
was prepared to devote his art to the service of 
the Catholic religion. For upward of a year after 
the appearance of his first book at Fano Gerson 
refrained from printing Hebrew, and devoted him- 
self to Church Fathers scholastic philosophy Latin 
and Italian belles lettres and grammar, publishing 
them all under a name taken from the sacred name 
of St. Jerome (Hieronymus) "Qui proprium a 
sacro nomine nomen habet."t Perhaps his friend 
Lorenzo Astemio shared the secret of his dissimila- 
tion, when he wrote to the Bishop of Fossombrone 
that moved by his sense of the public good and by 
his admiration of the book he had persuaded Son- 
cino to set aside his other work in order to print 
the Enchiridion of the Pythagorean philosopher 
Sixtus, highly recommended by St. Jerome and 
St. Augustine? The work contains only eight 
folios and could not have taken many hours to 
print, and it is difficult to understand why Gerson 

* Freimann's statement, "Ueber heb. Ink." p. 4, that the Soncino 
family printed non-Hebrew books before ISOO is erroneous. 

t From verses in edition of Epigrams etc. of Antonio and Gia- 
como Costanzi, Fano 1502. 

[94] 



GERSON SONCINO 



should have been especially zealous to produce it 
except for its effect. Our printer was fighting for 
a foothold for a chance to strike root to establish 
himself in the good graces of the powers eccle- 
siastical and secular, and after securing the favor 
of the Cardinal and the Bishop, he turns to the 
Prince whom he boldly calls in the glaring flattery 
of the time "the Divine Borgia Caesar the Second."* 
To this "Divine Caesar" Lorenzo Astemio had 
dedicated the Life of Epaminondas issued by Son- 
cino in 1502, and with fine Italian hand impaled 
the bloody Borgia on the keen point of this veiled 
reproof. "You (Caesar) have also this char- 
acteristic of Epaminondas, who though he might 
have led great armies and could have heaped up 
the greatest riches desired nothing more than an 
immortal name."t In July 1503 Gerson Soncino 
approached the foot of the Borgia throne with a 
fine volume containing the poems of Petrarca and 
dedicated to "the most illustrious and most ex- 
cellent Prince Cesare Borgia, Duke of Aemilia and 
Valentino and Standard Bearer of the Holy Roman 
Church," prefacing this sonnet to the fierce patron 
of literature: 

Each servitor of true and loyal thought. 
Whatever be the service he may bring, 
Who does not of his master's glory sing. 

In failing this, has grievous error wrought. 

* See colophon of "Invectiva in grammatistas" 1502. 

t Hoc quoque Eparainundae habere videris, qui quom maximos 
ductasset exercitus potuissetque facile amplissimas coacervare divitias, 
praeter immortale nomen nil habere concupivit. Manzoni p. 7. 



[95] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Whence we, in fear lest we may fail in aught, 
This new edition of our author bring, 
And to the steed of the Pierian spring 

We dedicate the volume we have brought. 

Mounting on Pegasus, soars thy valiant fame, 
O, Godlike Caesar Borgia, whose repute 

E'en now extends unto the farthest land. 
So to thy excellence, thy noble name. 

We dedicate this work, the ripest fruit 

Of Fano's press, imprinted by our hand.* 

Having published this adulatory poem, and 
presented to Borgia what he called "the first fruit 
of his exiguous lucubrations" but which was in 
fact his seventh publication at Fano, Gerson 
waited for the favor of the prince. But the wise 
and familiar words of that greater poet must have 
sprung to his lips, when within six weeks of the 
date of the publication of his eulogy, Pope Alex- 
ander lay dead of poison, his powerful son Cesare 

♦Translated by Beulah B. Amram. The original is given by 
Sacchi p. 56: — 

Deve ciascun deuoto e bon vassallo, 
De qualunque virtu sia possessore, 
Dar sempre laude & gloria al sue signore; 
E non facendo cio, faria gran fallo 
Onde noi, c'hauem sculpito nel metallo, 
La noua stampa del praesente auctore, 
Temendo non cader in tanto errore, 
La dedicarao Al pegaseo Cauallo. 
Sopra del qual si forte corre, e vola 
La fama tua, o Diuo Cesar Borgia, 
Che gia s'extende all' ultimo Oceano. 
Adoncha a tua Excellentia unica, e sola 
Sia dedicata questa noua forgia 

De stampa, Impressa in la Cita de Fano. 

[96] 



GERSON SONCINO 



at death's door, his nascent power crumbHng to 
ruins. 

Put no trust in princes, 

In the son of man, in whom there is no help, 
His breath departeth, he returneth to his dust; 
In that very day his purposes vanish. 

In his dedication of the Petrarca to Borgia, Ger- 
son discloses his rivalry with Aldo Manuzio the 
prince of Venetian printers, and the alleged wrong 
done by Aldo to Francesco Griffo the typecutter 
and inventor of the Aldine type. This dedication 
though somewhat lengthy may be reproduced here 
to tell its own story in the very words of our printer: 
"To the most illustrious and most excellent Prince 
Caesar Borgia, Duke of Aemilia and Valentino 
etc. and Standard Bearer of the Holy Roman 
Church ! Two years, most excellent and invincible 
Prince, have passed since, being pleased with the 
air, the site and the fertility of your most devoted 
city of Fano and the friendliness and wit of its 
inhabitants, I decided to come to live in it and 
practice the art of printing. At that time I met 
here the Reverend ApostoHc Legate the Cardinal 
of Santa Balbina, the distinguished preceptor of 
your Excellency, a man truly worthy of this 
dignity and a lover and patron of all learning. 
I recommended myself to his Eminence and made 
known to him my full intention to take up my 
perpetual domicile in this city and to bring here 
typecutters and printers, not ordinary and inferior 

r971 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

but such as excelled all others. Since I was most 
graciously heard by his Eminence I desired to 
fulfill my promise, and through my persuasion 
there have come here not only the most notable 
and capable compositors whom it was possible to 
bring, but also a most noble cutter of Latin Greek 
and Hebrew type, called Messer Francesco da 
Bologna, whose skill I certainly believe to be un- 
equalled in this work. For he not only knows how 
to cut fonts most perfectly but he has invented 
a new form of letters called cursive or chancery, 
which neither Aldo Romano nor others who cun- 
ningly have tried to adorn themselves with the 
plumes of others, but this very Messer Francesco 
first invented and designed, and it was he who cut 
all the fonts of letters from which the said Aldo 
ever printed, as well as the present font with a 
grace and beauty that speak for themselves. And 
now we are all most humble and devoted vassals 
of your Excellency, and it behooves our faithful 
service always to invoke your happy patronage, 
our most illustrious and merciful Prince, and to 
offer to you the first fruit of our exiguous lucubra- 
tions. Wherefore we destine and dedicate this 
work to your Excellency, not as a new thing, nor 
as worthy of your Excellency who are devoted 
not to desirable gain but to military discipline 
which completes and adorns our age with its 
shining and admirable deeds; but only to give 
some proof to your Excellency of our devotion and 
humility and of this newly invented type, which 

[98] 



GERSON SONCINO 



we hope may not be displeasing to you; with the 
help of God and your favor we shall strive to 
dedicate works most famous and noble to your 
highness, to whom most humbly we recommend 
ourselves." 

In order to understand the allusions to Aldo 
Romano and others who wore borrowed plumes 
we must go back a few years and enter the famous 
shop of Aldo on the Campo Sant' Agostino. At 
the time that Gerson was in Venice Aldo Manuzio 
Romano whose name is familiar to thousands who 
do not know of the man's existence through the 
adjective "Aldine" applied to so many books 
editions printing houses and things literary, had 
just begun his life's work of rescuing from oblivion 
the masterpieces of Greek literature. He ac- 
quired less renown through his Greek texts which 
are his real contribution to the humanities, than 
through his Latin and Italian texts printed in 
letters which are familiar even to school children; 
for the modern italics though artistically inferior 
are modified Aldine types, later called italic from 
the land of their origin. And through these types 
the great printer Aldo comes into relation with 
his fellow-craftsman Gerson Soncino. There was 
a famous engraver of Bologna Francesco Griffo* 

* Pannizi "chi era Francesco da Bologna" and Gualandi "note 
intorno a Francesco Raibolini detto II Francia" identify him as 
the famous painter. Manzoni "studi di bibliografia analitica I" 
differs with them. The question is settled by documents published 
by Adamo Rossi that he is II Griffo and not II Francia. Fumagalli 
p. 42. 



[99] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

who had cut many types for Aldo,* and to whom 
Aldo showed one of his most precious possessions, 
acquired from a Paduan scholar — a copy of the 
poems of Messer Francesco Petrarca, written in 
Petrarca's own beautiful hand. "Make me types 
even like these letters of our divine poet!" and 
forthwith Francesco cut the counterfeit of the 
beautiful letters which enshrined the still more 
beautiful thought of the poet. Thereupon young 
Pietro Bembo, not yet the cardinal-poet sought in 
all the courts of Italy, edited the text and there 
appeared in July 1501 "Le cose volgari di Messer 
Francesco Petrarca," first of all Italian "Aldine" 
books. The novelty and beauty of its types ex- 
cited the admiration of eager booklovers, and other 
printers, quick to profit by the new fancy of their 
patrons imitated these types and even sought to 
have Francesco Grififo cut them similar fonts. 
Then Aldo had recourse to the law, and we may 
yet read his petition to the Signoria of Venice 
wherein he supplicates "the most grave Senate 
not to permit any other to make or imitate the 
Greek and cursive Latin letters nor to print the 
books made or to be made by your petitioner . . . 
in your dominion for ten years." Nor was the 
most grave Senate deaf to his appeal, but forth- 
with issued a decree granting his prayer. Now 
consternation seized good Francesco who probably 
said with show of reason, that by cutting types for 
Messer Aldo he had not intended to deprive him- 

* Manzoni, p. 30. 

[100] 



GERSON SONCINO 



self of his livelihood; but as Messer Aldo had 
made his further sojourn within the domain of the 
Signoria irksome and dangerous, it behooved him 
to depart to other cities where he might cut his 
types and be at peace. 

Then Francesco remembered his old friend 
Gerson the Jew, who now was established at Fano 
by the sea, in the domains of Cesare Borgia Duke 




Medal of Aldo Manuzio 

of Romagna. At Fano the old friends met and 
made a pact, and Gerson announced to all the 
world that he would publish books with types of 
much grace and beauty cut by the noblest of 
gravers of Latin Greek and Hebrew letters, Messer 
Francesco da Bologna "who has invented a new 
form of letters called 'cursive' or 'chancery' 
which neither Aldo Romano nor others who cun- 
ningly have tried to adorn themselves with the 
plumes of others, but this very Messer Francesco 
first invented and designed." It is difScult to 

[101] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

determine the origin of the feeling between Gerson 
and Aldo,* and it was either as the cause or result 
of their quarrel that Aldo in his Hebrew Grammar 
published in ISOlf announced that he hoped also 
to publish grammars, dictionaries and sacred 
books.J Had Aldo like his successor and fellow- 
townsman Daniel Bomberg, printed Hebrew books 
as he had threatened Gerson would have been 
seriously affected by the competition of this es- 
tablished friend of the rich and mighty and beloved 
son of the Church. Aldo's rights to the cursive 
types had been confirmed by letters of Popes Alex- 
ander VI and Julius II, and when Pope Leo X 
likewise confirmed them and recognized Aldo as 
the inventor of these types, threatening all who 
infringed upon his rights with the ban of excom- 
munication, the wrath of Francesco Griffo rose 
again and we hear the last echo of this controversy 
in his indignant words. For after having worked 
long for Gerson and served other printers he re- 
turned in 1516 to his native city and printed an 
edition of Petrarca, in the preface to which he 
claims that he had first made for Aldo Manuzio 
Romano, the Greek and Latin types with which 
Aldo "had not only come into much wealth, but 
had assured himself of immortal fame with 



* "Aldo Manutius und Hieron. Soncino" H. B. 1 : 125. 

t "Introductio per brevis ad linguam Hebraicam." Hebrew type 
for this book was cut by Francesco. Jew. Enc. 1 : 335. 

JSacchi p. 54 note 31. Manzoni, p. 256-265, thinks that this 
Hebrew grammar was the cause of their disagreement. 

[102] 



GERSON SONCINO 



posterity."* And had it needed confirmation he 
could have pointed to the testimony of Aldo him- 
self, who when the types were fresh from the mold 
and the first Latin book a Virgil had been printed 
with them, wrote in the preface this tribute to the 
skill of his engraver: 

IN GRAMMATOGLYPTAE LAUDEM. 
QUI GRAIIS DEDIT ALDUS, EN LATINIS 
DAT NUNC GRAM M ATA SCALPTA DAE- 
DALEIS FRANCISCI MANIBUS BONONI- 
ENSIS.f 

Although our sympathy goes out to Soncino in 
his unequal contest with the powerful Aldo we 
are obliged to admit the superiority of Aldo's 
Petrarca, not as regards the type, but the correct- 
ness of the text. The reason appears when we 
remember that Aldo's editor was one of the most 
exquisite scholars of the time the far famed Pietro 
Bembo, whereas Soncino had to be content with 
the modest skill of Astemio, who although a good 
Latinist was no match for Bembo in the living 
language.^ After the edition of Petrarca, Gerson 
printed eighteen other books at Fano until his 
removal to Pesaro in 1506; the very next book 
being his first Hebrew publication, the "Hoshaa- 

* Sacchi p. 20. 

t Brown p. 47. Francesco cut various styles of italics. Manzoni 
Annali p. 30 considers the style used by Soncino finer than that 
used by Aldo. Francesco came to a bad end. He was hanged in 1S18 
for killing his son-in-law. Fumagalli p. 42. 

J Manzoni p. 38. 

[103] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

not", hymns for the feast of Tabernacles.* After 
the fall of the Borgia family, referred to by Ger- 
son in the epigraph of a grammatical work "printed 
9 September 1503, 19 days after the death of Pope 
Alexander VI," Gerson continued his work undis- 
turbed by the tremendous political changes wrought 
by the removal of Cesare Borgia. To him as to the 
other craftsmen and scholars, the change of mas- 
ter simply meant a change of patron, and in his 
dedicatory epistles instead of the Duke of Aemilia 
and Valentino there appear Duke Guidobaldo of 
Urbino, his duchess Elizabeth Gonzaga, Ramberto 
Malatesta, scion of the ancient house that ruled 
in Fano. What Manzoni considers the most 
beautiful book of the press of Soncino appears 
in 1506, the "Christian tenstringed harpsicord" 
(Decachordum Christianum) by Cardinal Marco 
Vigerio Bishop of Sinigaglia illustrated with ten 
engravings of scenes from the life of Jesus by 
Florio Vavassore, the beauty of which so impressed 
the cardinal's kinsman the governor of Fano that 
after Gerson had removed his press to Pesaro he 
was especially invited by the municipal authorities 
to print the Statutes of Fano. 

The ancient port of Pesaro lies on the Adriatic, 

* Of the twenty-five books printed 1 502-1506 nine are in Hebrew. 
The "Hoshaanot" were followed by "Musar Haskel" of Hai Gaon 
in 1504, Sefer Harokeah (the Perfumer) by Eleazer of Worms, and the 
Prayer Book in Italian and Hebrew letters "Sidur di tutto I'anno," 
in 1505, the Khosari of Jehuda Halevi, the book of Devotion, The 
"Gates of Repentance" of Jona Gerondi, a Hagadah and the Roman 
Mahzor in 1506. 

[104] 



GERSON SONCINO 



out of the main path of the swarms of warHke 
rovers who under Spanish Swiss and German 
leaders overran Italy and for decades ravaged the 
land in the service of Pope and Prince. Under the 
rule of the Sforza and of the Rovere it became an 
asylum for scholars and artists and its court was 
celebrated by Ariosto as the place where "with the 
author of the 'Courtier,' with Bembo and the 
others sacred to divine Apollo, exile was rendered 
less hard and strange." After the fall of Cesare 
Borgia, Giovanni Sforza Lord of Pesaro reentered 
the city from which the arms of Borgia had driven 
him, and shortly thereafter he married Ginevra 
daughter of Marco Tiepolo of Venice a lady whom 
Jacopo da Bergamo in his book on the celebrated 
women of Renaissance, lauds for her elegance of 
form her wonderful grace her calm and queenly 
bearing and her chaste beauty.* This lady had 
been the patroness of Gerson Soncino when that 
wandering craftsman was in Venice just before his 
estabhshment at Fano; and it was in all proba- 
bility her marriage to the Lord of Pesaro in Decem- 
ber 1504 that turned Gerson's thoughts to that 
city. Giovanni Sforza was a cultivated gentle- 
man, who though capable of deeds of violence was 
devoted to the study of philosophy,! and had 
gathered a notable library in his palace at Pesaro, 
vying with that of the Dukes of Urbino on their 
neighboring mountain top. Compared with their 

* Gregorovius "Lucretia Borgia" N. Y. 1903 p. 28. 
t Gregorovius "Lucretia Borgia" p. 330. 



105] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

cousins of Milan, the Sforza of Pesaro were hu- 
mane rulers, their warlike and savage instincts 
tamed by the smallness and entrancing loveliness 
of their domain, then as now one of the most 
peaceful spots in all Italy. The desire to be at 
peace! We can well imagine how the heart of our 
printer swelled with the hope that good fortune 
might at last give him a shelter where he could 
pursue his work in happy seclusion. He would go 
and seek refuge under the Lord of Pesaro, relying 
on the good-will of the noble Ginevra his erstwhile 
patroness. He had not to travel far to make the 
change, for the towers of Pesaro may be seen from 
Fano rising out of the mists of the sea.* His first 
book he dedicated to his noble patroness, with 
words more literally true than is usual with such 
performances, "Thinking often of you, most Il- 
lustrious Lady Ginevra Sforza, and how I might 
show my loyalty toward your Excellency and your 
house in the famous city of Venice, all the more now 
that you are my lady and patroness and consort of 
my lord, the most excellent Giovanni Sforza of 
Aragon, by whose favor and with whose assistance 
and grace I am come to the city of Pesaro, . . . 
I have dedicated to your Serenity the Poems of 
Serafino newly printed in your city, with cursive 
letters."! With this splendid book, first printed 
by him in 1504 at Fano and dedicated to Elizabeth 
Gonzaga Duchess of Urbino, thereafter in 1509 

* Gregorovius "Lucretia Borgia" p. 80. 
t Manzoni p. 149. 

[106] 



GERSON SONCINO 



dedicated to Galeazzo Sforza brother of Giovanni, 
who was then ruling, and in 1516 to Eleonora 
Rovere da Gonzaga wife of the Duke of Urbino, 
Gerson began his career in Pesaro. In this con- 
genial atmosphere he printed without cessation 
from 1507 to 1515 and again in 1517, 1519 and 
1520. The two famous libraries of Pesaro and 
Urbino attracted scholars and established a book- 
mart in these cities, and stirred by the rivalry of 
the great Aldo, Latin Italian and Hebrew texts 
flowed from Gerson's press. Had be been a 
Christian the world would have known him as a 
printer of fame equal to Aldo, for men of culture 
and discernment who were his contemporaries 
have left plain records of their opinion of his merit, 
an opinion fully sustained by the excellence of his 
productions. But he was a Jew, and until re- 
cently his name was barely known even to biblio- 
philes, who seem to have ignored the great books 
on Hebrew typography which the Abbot De 
Rossi wrote more than a hundred years ago. To 
the non-Jewish world the Hebrew printed book 
like the Talmud is little known, and bibliographers 
talk about Soncino books published at Prague or 
in Spain just as the monks used to talk about 
Rabbinus Talmud, as though it were a man. Per- 
haps the non-Jewish world may be excused for 
its lack of interest, but it is only just that his co- 
religionists should remember this Jewish printer, 
whose merits equal those which gained Aldo "im- 
mortal fame with posterity." 



[107] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Gerson, first of all the Jewish printers to under- 
take the publication of non-Hebrew books, was 
probably forced to do so by an apathetic Jewish 
patronage; for the Jews were too poor to support 
the press. It is the brilliant success that crowned 
his non-Hebrew work that explains the anomalous 
fact that a Jewish printer could maintain himself 
for forty years in the midst of an always hostile 
jealous and sometimes dangerous Christian en- 
vironment. No other Jewish printer in Italy at 
all approached this record. Although his press 
was transferred to Pesaro, his reputation among 
the Fanesians made it profitable to keep his press 
at Fano running, contemporaneously with that of 
Pesaro. His great book, the Decachordum of the 
Bishop of Sinigaglia was published at Fano on 
August 10, 1507, after he had removed to Pesaro, 
and it was this noble book which secured for him 
the contract to publish the Statutes of Fano under 
special agreement with the Priors of that city.* 
His skill at this work secured for him the contract 
to print the Statutes of the city of Jesi in 1516 and 
of Rimini in 1525, and competent experts the great 
lawyers Aurelio Superchio and Tommaso Diplo- 
vatazio recommended to the town council of Pesaro 
that Gerson be given the contract to print the 

* The contract with the Priors of Fano is dated 21 February 1S08. 
He agreed to print eighty copies of the Statutes using the same type 
as the Decachordum. The Priors agreed to furnish him with a house 
for his press, a corrector for the work and to pay him eighty gold 
florins, equal to about $192.00. Manzoni p. 140-141. He printed 
two other books at Fano in 1508. 

[108] 



GERSON SONCINO 



Statutes they had revised. This however was 
never done.* In his edition of Cornazzano's "Mili- 
tary Affairs" dedicated to Giovanni Sforza he 
acknowledges "the great most ample and inesti- 
mable benefits patronage favor and kindness" 
shown to him and to his family. Making all due 
allowances for the exaggeration of this dedication 
we may reasonably conclude that it was well with 
him at Pesaro. A few Hebrew books published at 
this time (1507) indicate that he was not unmind- 
ful in the midst of his success with Christian books 
of the great purpose set before him: f "May God 
illumine my darkness and give me strength to 
commence . . . other holy books of the law 
of God and of his reUgion." J One of these, the 
grammatical work "A walk through the paths of 
knowledge" contains an anonymous commentary, 
written by the famous Elijah Levita while he was 
at Padua. Many years thereafter Elijah told how 
while he was immured at Padua on account of the 
plague a servant stole the manuscript and had it 
printed at Pesaro, thus cheating him of the credit 
for the book besides robbing him of the financial 
benefit that he might have derived from it.^I 

* Aurelio Superchio was in 1512 sent by the City of Pesaro to 
obtain from Pope Julius II the investiture of this dominion for Duke 
Francesco Maria of Urbino. Tommaso Diplovatazio was a distin- 
guished lawyer and diplomat who revised the laws of Pesaro. 

t In the epigraph of the Mussar Haskel of Fano 1504. 

t These three Hebrew books are Bahya ben Asher's commentary 
on the Pentateuch, Kimhi's Grammar, the "Walk through the paths of 
Knowledge" and an anonymous grammatical work entitled "Entrance 
of my words," Petah Debarai. 

1[ Manzoni p. 162. 

[109] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

The publication in July 1508 of a funeral 
oration delivered by a Paduan scholar on the death 
of Duke Guidobaldo of Urbino serves to recall 
the unsettled state of affairs in the principaHties 
of Italy. Guidobaldo was the last scion of the 
House of Montefeltre, and the Borgias during the 
Papacy of Alexander VI had their eyes on his pos- 
sessions. His sister was married to a brother of 
the Cardinal della Rovere, who subsequently as- 
cended the Papal throne as Julius II.* 

Guidobaldo married the noble Elizabeth Gon- 
zaga of the ruling house of Mantua to whom Son- 
cino had dedicated an edition of Serafino in 1504, 
not long after Guidobaldo had returned to his 
duchy, from which the ruthless Cesare Borgia had 
driven him. At the death of Guidobaldo, a nephew 
of the Pope Francesco Maria della Rovere who had 
been adopted by the Duke his uncle by the mother's 
side succeeded him to the duchy. f It was this 
Francesco Maria who became Lord of Pesaro. 
For Giovanni Sforza died July 27th, 1510, leaving 
as his heir an infant son Costanzo born November 
4, 1505, during whose minority Galeazzo brother 
of the late Giovanni was regent. On August 15, 
1512 Costanzo died. Julius II withdrew his sup- 
port from Galeazzo and forced him to agree Oc- 
tober 30, 1512, to surrender his castle and domain 
to the Duke of Urbino. { As long as the Sforza 

* Gregorovius "Lucretia Borgia" p. 103. 

t Guicciardini "History of the Wars of Italy'' London, 17S6. 
4: 258. 

t Gregorovius "Lucretia Borgia" p. 331. 

[110] 



GERSON SONCINO 



ruled at Pesaro, Gerson was protected and honored 
by the court and the scholars. The Sforza, Duke 
Ercole of Ferrara and later their Highnesses 
of Urbino accepted his dedications. Alessandro 
Gaboardo of Torcelli edited and corrected many 
of his books, and testified to the skill of this "most 
accurate printer." He was the friend of the 
astronomer Camillo Leonardo the poet Giacomo 
Costanzi the printers Nicolo Brenta and Pietro da 
Cafa of Pesaro and Bernardino Oliva and Ber- 
nardo Guerralda of Ancona, no less than of the 
preaching Friar Innocente Bacchio. In the re- 
public of letters in the world of thought the pass- 
port was excellence, and consideration of religion 
and race seems to have played but an unimportant 
part. It cannot be overlooked that at this time 
some of Gerson's books were introduced to the 
reading public by Innocente Bacchio, who be- 
longed to the Preaching Friars a class of men chief 
among whom were men like Giovanni di Capis- 
trano and Bernardino da Feltre whose business 
consisted largely in preaching personal virtue and 
morality, together with undying hatred and per- 
secution of Turk, Jew and other infidels and 
heretics. Here surely is a millennial scene, — the 
preaching friar in the house of the Jew, recom- 
mending the worthy printer to the good will of 
the Lady of Pesaro.* This is all the more note- 
worthy, because this time saw the beginning of the 
Reuchlin controversy on the Talmud, soon des- 

* See introduction to the " Medicine for the Soul " 1510. 



[Ill 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

tined to divide European opinion and for the time 
being make the Talmud of the Jews the banner, 
around which, for the most part unwillingly it 
must be said, the friends of enlightenment and 
freedom of thought gathered. Gerson was print- 
ing Talmudic treatises apparently without let or 
hindrance and without ofifense to his ecclesiastical 
friends in the Marches,* especially the treatise on 
Strange Worship (Aboda Zara) whose very title 
was found offensive to Catholic sensibilities. As 
the controversy proceeded the atmosphere at 
Rome cleared. Julius II was a warrior rather than 
a priest, his successor Leo X a scholar and man of 
the world, who despite all the vaporings of the 
godly men who saw religion and morality im- 
perilled by the publication of the Talmud did not 
hesitate to grant a privilege to Daniel Bomberg 
of Venice in 1518 to print a complete edition. f 

*In 1508 Yebamot; 1509-10 Bezah; lSU-12 Baba Bathra and 
Megilla; 1513-14 Aboda Zara; 1515 Moed Katon, Sukkah, Erubin; 
1519 HuUin. 

t The morality of the Jews may be best illustrated by reference 
to the Catholic work on the History of the Popes by Dr. Louis Pastor. 
(St. Louis, 1901.) He describes the morals of the Christian world, 
admitting unwillingly enough the corruption of Church and priest- 
hood. He depicts the faults of the time unsparingly; — vainglory 
falsehood sexual vice superstition sensuality and the prevalence among 
all classes of society, even the priesthood and monks of a callousness 
to these vices that permitted the grossest indecencies to go almost 
unnoticed. Amid all this the author being an Austrian Catholic 
feels called upon to have his fling at the Jews. After finding them 
guilty of usury, he calls attention to the only immorality that he can 
charge them with: — a Jew first printed Boccaccio's novels! Pastor 
"History of the Popes "5 : 119, a charge which if true is ridiculous if it 
is intended to show that the Jews had anything to do with the utter 

[112 1 



GERSON SONCINO 



One of Gerson's patrons was the Carmelite 
Monk Fra Battista, whose poem on the "Fortunes 
of Francesco Marquis of Mantua" was printed in 
1509* 

Another and a greater contemporary is repre- 
sented among the pubHcations of Gerson Soncino. 
Some of the smaller works of Savonarola were 

rottenness of society and clergy. As a matter of fact no authority is 
given for his statement and our studies of Jewish printers justify us in 
denyingits truth: Jew. Enc. article "Boccaccio" 3: 279. Gerson Soncino 
who was the only Jewish printer of his time who published non- Jewish 
books was issuing Latin classics Catholic religious works books of 
grammar and rhetoric and there is not one book in his entire list that 
can be classed as immoral, unless the literature of miracle working 
saints and the abdication of reason to ecclesiastical authority be placed 
in that category. 

* This Francesco was the brother of Elizabeth Gonzaga, Duchess 
of Urbino, to whom Gerson's Fano edition of Serafino's poem was 
dedicated in 1505, and it was his victory over the French at Fornuovo 
that was indirectly responsible for the famous "Madonna della Vittoria " 
painted by Mantegna and now hanging in the Louvre. As this is 
probably the only great Italian picture known to have been paid for 
by a Jew, it may not be uninteresting to sketch its history. The pic- 
ture represents the Virgin and the infant Jesus, seated in a bower of 
flowers, on the one hand Saints Joseph and Michael, on the other the 
infant St. John and St. Elizabeth, The Madonna's right hand and the 
hand of Jesus are raised in blessing over the kneeling figure of Francesco 
Gonzaga, the captain of the League which was formed by the Pope 
Spain England Venice and Milan to oppose Charles VIII of France. 
At the battle of Fornuovo (July 6, 1495) the Marquis implored the aid 
of the Virgin, through whose intercession no doubt the French were 
obliged to retreat. Now it appears that one day while Francesco 
was campaigning, a religious procession through the streets of Mantua 
passed the house of Daniel Norsa, a Jewish banker in the Via San 
Simone. When Norsa had bought his house, he obtained episcopal 
consent, after paying a large sum of money, to remove an image of 
the Virgin which adorned the facade. When the procession passed 
the house it was noticed that the place formerly occupied by the 
image of the Virgin, had been defaced by some profane verses probably 
by some wag who delighted like so many of the time to sport with 



[113] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

printed at Pesaro by Nicolo Brenta* at the ex- 
pense of Soncino, and at a later date (1519) Soncino 
commissioned Bernardino Oliva of Ancona to print 
another book of the great Friar, also at his expense.f 
The Hebrew books printed by him were nearly 
all books by the old masters, and he very properly 
concluded it more meritorious to print a good old 
book than to write a poor new one. In one work 
however he essays authorship. "Introductio ad 
litteras hebraicas"} was the work of his youth, — 

the things held sacred by the Church. The crowd seeing the verses, 
threw stones and broke the Jew's windows, and otherwise threatened 
him. He wrote to the Marquis, who, moved by the justice of the 
cause and no doubt also by financial consideration, gave the Jew his 
protection. After the victory of Fornuovo the Marquis wrote to his 
consort the famous Isabella d'Este who ruled in his absence, that as 
a thank offering for the aid given him by the Virgin on the field of 
battle, Daniel Norsa should restore the picture of the Virgin in a more 
splendid form; thus the mother of God would be fittingly honored 
at no expense to the Marquis. Whereupon Andrea Mantegna was 
ordered to paint the picture for one hundred and ten ducats and Daniel 
Norsa was ordered to pay within three days. Subsequently in order 
to make the thank offering to the Virgin more complete Girolamo 
Redini a preaching friar proposed that Norsa's house be torn down 
and a church built there, dedicated to the Madonna of the Victory. 
The justice of this at once appealed to all and it was done, and Man- 
tegna's new picture was carried in procession and enshrined in its new 
temple, where it remained until Napoleon's day when the French 
whom she had helped to defeat three hundred years before took her 
picture amid much other plunder and carried it off to Paris where it 
still remains. For this account see more fully Cartwright's "Isabella 
d'Este." 

* Manzoni p. 229. 

t In addition to Brenta and Oliva, Pietro da Cafa printed for 
Soncino, producing a number of works at Pesaro in IS 10. This Pietro, 
unlike the other printers, worked in the house of Soncino and seems 
for a time to have been in his employ. Manzoni p. 210. 

i Mabo el otiot ibriot published IS 10. 

[114] 



GERSON SONCINO 



"hoc alphabetum jam pene puer composui," — 
and he introduces it to the Christian readers, for 
whom it was intended, in simple unclassical Latin 
phrase full of the idiom of the vernacular.* 

Besides bookmaking he naturally was engaged in 
bookselling, and at least two documents are extant 
showing his business connection in Perugia. He 
had patrons in all the great cities and his business 
prospered except when it was checked here and 
there by the perpetual warfare, which was the 
outcome of the policies of the League of Cambrai.f 

* Lectori. 

Lector si placet hebraicam linguam condiscere. Hoc alphabetum, 
et litterarum combinationes et quaedam alia ad banc rem facientia, 
tibi et studiosis condonani (sic). His. u. (nam) nisi Ameles angulus 
dici mauis hebraice Legere poteris. Hoc alphabetum jam pene puer 
composui. Sed his cui dederam hebraicae Linguae ignarus non recte 
apposuit nunc uero correptum (sic) habes: Deinceps psalmorum 
Codicem hebraice graece et latine Pisauri excussum expectato A diuo 
Hieronymo de uerbo ad uerbum secundum ueritatem hebraicam traduc- 
tum, additis nonnuUis nostris glossis Loca plurima a scriptoribus in- 
ductis corrupta aperientibus. Adde et Lector Candidissime. His 
psalmorum codex poterit tibi ad linguam hebraicam graecam et latinam 
pro dictionario succurrere. Vale, et haec plusquam Tantali Talenta 
ficito: Pisauri. Manzoni p. 257. 

t Guicciardini, 4 : 211. 



[115 



CHAPTER VI. 

GERSON SONCINO (1513-1534). 

Ancona — Political Upheaval — Battista Guarini's Verses 
on the Jew-badge — At Ortona-a-Mare — Pietro Galatino's 
"Mystery of Catholic Truth" — Ger son's Tolerance — At 
Rimini — The Invitation of the Ecclesiastical Council — 
Ger son's Book-mark — His Controversy with an Apostate in 
Bomberg's Shop — His Last Book in Italy, 1527 — The Sack 
of Rome — Gerson in Turkey — List of Soncino Publications. 

IN the year 1513 the infant Costanzo Sforza 
died, and his uncle the Regent Galeazzo retired 
in favor of the Pope's nephew Francesco Maria 
della Rovere, Duke of Urbino, who is mentioned 
in the epigraph of Soncino's books as "Duke of 
Urbino and Sora and Prefect of Rome." The 
Pope died in February and was succeeded by Leo 
X, in whose honor Soncino pubHshed the poems 
of Lorenzo di Medici his father. Whether Leo 
X's well known friendliness to the Jews stimulated 
Hebrew printing cannot now be determined. It 
appears however that not only did Soncino's busi- 
ness increase but that two other presses were es- 
tablished, that of Samuel Latif of Mantua of mere 
passing importance,* and that of Daniel Bomberg 
of Venice destined to rival and finally to supplant 
that of Soncino. The business of Soncino war- 

* He printed a few books in 1513, 1514, to wit: — Seder Olam 
Rabba Vezutta, Megillot Taanit, Sefer Hakabbalah, Tanya, Shulhan 
Arba. See Schwab "les incunables" p. 61; Zunz "Zur Gesch. u. 
Lit." 250. 

[116] 



GERSON SONCINO 



ranted his establishing a new connection at An- 
cona, a well known and important seaport lying 
to the south of Pesaro, where presses were in 
operation under charge of his friends Bernardino 
Oliva and Bernardo Guerralda, with whom Son- 
cino placed orders for a number of books during 
the years 1513-1517. At the same time Soncino's 
sons were taken into the firm and the books now 
appear by "the sons of Soncino". * What may 
be taken as an indication of lightheartedness pro- 
duced partly by the general happy aspect of his 
affairs, is the publication of two jolly books be- 
longing to that peculiar class pubHshed solely for 
the joyous Festival of Purim, "The Treatise on 
Purim" t and the Book of Habbakbuk "the 
bottle", a broad parody of the Book of Habbakuk. J 
Since 1510 when the output of Hebrew books 
of Soncino's press had been rather meagre, he 
printed the Bible and the Earlier Prophets. Be- 
sides the Talmudic treatises and the Purim books 
mentioned, the following five years yielded only 
commentaries on the Pentateuch by Nachmanides 
1513-14, by Bahya and Levi ben Gerson 1514, and 
a Mahzor, German rite in 1515. Among his non- 
Hebrew books was a departure into the books on 
chivalry, the publication of one of those foolish 
and extravagant romances which were held up to 

*Ramban "Commentary on Pentateuch"; Talmud Babli, Abodah 
Zara ; etc. 

t Z. H. B. 9 : 153. 

X Sacchi p. 39; Catalogue of Schwager and Frankel of Husiatyn. 



[117] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the ridicule of posterity in the immortal work of 
Cervantes, the "Book of the Giant Morante, of 
King Charles and all the Paladins, and of Orlando's 
Conquest of the City of Sannia." 

Now he seems to have given up his press at 
Pesaro — why, we do not know — and returned to 
Fano, where he remained for two years. The 
reason for his removal could hardly have been 
political for the towns were so close together as to 
be affected similarly by the political changes or 
military campaigns of that turbulent time.* There 
was an improvement in the general condition of the 
Marches for several decades rent by wars and 
political changes. Francis I of France almost 
immediately after his accession in 1515 invaded 
Italy and after a short campaign became master of 
Lombardy. In Pesaro and Urbino the general 
discontent with the rule of the Rovere finally re- 
sulted in their expulsion in 1516 and as is usual in 
such crises, a period of great unrest and disturb- 
ance ensued. Amid all this Gerson no doubt 
suffered in his business along with his fellow 
countrymen, and in addition had to bear the 
ignominy of the Jew hatred which had been grow- 
ing as the result of the Reuchlin controversy. In 
an edition of Pindar's Trojan War he was obliged 
to print a versified stupidity of the poet Battista 

*In addition to many non-Hebrew books, he printed the following: — 
in 1S16, the Turim; in 1517 only Hebrew books; a Bible, the Arukh 
of Nathan ben Yehiel, the commentary of Bahya on the Pentateuch 
(reprinted by him for the third time) and the grammar of Moses Kimhi. 

[118] 









1 itle page of ICoibo 

Soncino, Rimini, 1525 



GERSON SONCINO 



Guarini, who unworthily descended from his 
Olympus to fling a stone at the much suffering 
Jews : — 

To Caecilianus. 
Why the Jews wear the letter O.* 

Why does the Hebrew wear the fourth vowel on his breast ? 

Caecilianus was wont to be asked by many. 
He thought, that, condemned to eternal torment, 

The Hebrew bears it as a sign of his grief; 
Or perhaps this vowel is used as a Zero 

Indicating his nonentity among men. 
Or since Jews get rich through usury 

It indicates how they get much out of nothing.t 

How our printer must have suffered under this 
indignity! Perhaps he too was obliged to wear 
the distinguishing badge, and though laden with 
years and honors, submit to the attack of every 
street ruffian. The personal sting in these verses 
must have grieved Gerson because of the injustice 
of the attack. The Soncino family began their 
career in Italy as money lenders, the fruit of whose 

* The Jew-badge, a mark required to be worn by the Jews, con- 
sisted of a piece of yellow or red cloth cut in the shape of the letter O. 
■f Battista Guarini ad Caecilianum Cur Judaei ferant litteram O. 
Cur ferat hebraeus vocalem in pectori quartam 

A multis quaeri Caeciliane solet. 
Addictum aeternis ut se cruciatibus esset 
Cogitet, haec secura signa doloris habet 
Aut quia pro nihilo numeris apponiraur illam, 

Inter mortales se sciat esse nihil. 
Aut, quod judaeis augentur faenore nummi 
Major ab hac numerus nam solet esse nota. 

[121] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

intelligence was enjoyed by the all-powerful Duke 
of Milan, who permitted them to accumulate 
money in order to take it from them when reasons 
of State required. Under Francesco Sforza they 
lent money to farmers, merchants and nobles, 
they furnished the sinews of war for the Duke and 
were permitted by him to retain a fair amount as 
the profit of their enterprise and the reward of 
their toil. After Israel Nathan Soncino aban- 
doned money matters and turned to the press, 
neither his sons nor his grandsons nor his great- 
grandsons ever thought of exchanging the happy 
labor of the printer's shop for the opulence of the 
banker. As keen of intellect and adroit of wit, 
they might have, had they so chosen, rivalled the 
success of their forebears in the enterprises of 
finance, but instead of yielding to the allurements 
of this more envied vocation, they printed their 
books and oft repeated the words of Gerson and 
the other pioneers of the press, "May God vouch- 
safe unto us to print other books, many of 
them, without end. Amen. So may it be His 
will." 

The situation in the Marches grew steadily 
worse and Gerson again girded his loins and 
sought a new home, this time within the domains 
of the King of the Two Sicilies Charles V of Spain 
afterwards the Emperor Charles I, who though no 
friend to the Jews * evidently seemed to Gerson a 
safer master than the shifting sovereignty of the 

*Graetz 9 -.281. 

[122] 



GERSON SONGINO 



Marches. To Ortona by the Sea Gerson turned 
his face, and in 1518 we find him vainly attempting 
to establish himself in the Abruzzi, that rough 
mountainous land that formed a great natural 
barrier, protecting the kingdom of Naples on the 
north, and stretching through Abruzzi Citeriore 
in a poor sandy plain to the sea. Here lay Ortona, 
noted for its wines but poor in those products of 
the mind that made the Marches and Venice so 
attractive to the scholars and the printers. No 
doubt our printer had reasonable peace and quiet 
at Ortona, for he even contemplated moving to 
Ghieti the capital of this province, but peace and 
quiet though essential are not the exclusive de- 
siderata for a printer, especially when purchased 
at the price of utter abasement to an insignificant 
princeling like the Count of Montorio who as 
vassal of Charles V ruled over Ortona. In the 
language used not only by the printers but by all 
the craftsmen and scholars Christian and Jewish, 
Gerson after reciting that he has brought his family 
and household to this part of the Abruzzi, to this 
noble city "like the royal eagle among the birds," 
servilely dedicates an edition of Cornazzano's 
"Military Affairs" to the Count "whose innumer- 
able virtues and nobiUty he would be able to de- 
scribe only in part if he had the fertility of Cicero 
the majesty of Virgil and the ease and sweetness 
of Ovid."* Thus to obtain a mere living the best 
men of that day had to abase themselves before 

* Manzoni p. 472. 

[123] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the worthless men of might, whose dominions 
founded by miUtary skill were handed down to 
unscrupulous descendants, whose illegitimate birth 
was an indication of their divorce from all real 
virtue or nobility of character. Their vices and 
weaknesses are hidden beneath a sumptuous ex- 
terior, and the selfishness and immorality of their 
lives forgotten in the noble poems and glorious pic- 
tures dedicated by the men of genius whom they 
patronized. 

During his sojourn at Ortona Gerson printed 
four books, one of them in Hebrew.* Most inter- 
esting of all of these is the work of Petrus Gala- 
tinus the Franciscan "On the Mystery of Catholic 
Truth" with its subtitle, "Most useful work in all 
Christendom concerning the mysteries of the 
Catholic truth against the obstinate perfidy of the 
Jews of our time ; recently excerpted from Talmud 
and other Hebrew works and elegantly presented 
in four languages." One may forgive the scholars, 
who confused by the name Hieronymus assumed 
by Gerson Soncino in his non- Hebrew books 
thought that there were several members of the 
same family printing in the Marches, and after- 
wards when it was determined that there was but 
one, believed that he had been converted to Cath- 
olicism. 

How shocking to orthodox Jewish minds must 
have been the catholicity of taste and interest of 
this master printer. Ancient Talmudic texts had 

* Grammar of Moses Kimhi. 

[1241 



GERSON SONCINO 



gradually under the pressure of a hostile environ- 
ment been interpreted by the rabbis so as to pro- 
hibit the reading of works of belles lettres and 
history, lest the reader be led to scoffing apostasy 
and evil desire. It was a natural and almost in- 
stinctive method of defense developed by the 
minority to preserve their religion their view of 
life and their racial identity against the powerful 
encroachment of a hostile and enormous majority. 
But a few years after Gerson's time Joseph Caro 
the last great codifier of the laws of the Jews, after 
citing these restrictions against reading, and in- 
cluding specifically the works of Immanuel of 
Rome, added "and those who compose them and 
edit them not to say those who print them lead the 
multitude into sin." The views of this Palestinian 
scholar no longer were a true measure of the situa- 
tion in Italy, where Gerson Soncino one of the ad- 
vance guards of the new era, was indicating un- 
erringly the direction of the path of civilization. 
He deemed nothing that was human foreign to 
him, and we find among his publications the an- 
cient classics as well as Catholic publications of 
most unimpeachable orthodoxy, and most re- 
markable of all this book of Galatinus, which was 
not only Catholic but distinctly anti-Jewish in 
purpose, introduced to the public in Hebrew 
verses by the author or some apostate editor as 
a book filled with loveliness, expounding the secrets 
of the Talmud in which may be found the very 
foundation of Christian Messianism the unity of 



[125 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Father Son and Holy Ghost.* Manzoni, with 
true nobility, says "We should pity this sincere 
Jew who in order to live amidst intolerant hypo- 
crites and fanatical and greedy persecutors (al- 
though the Evangel is the law of toleration and 
love) was obliged to publish books which instead 
of humiliating him rather cover those who ordered 
them, with contempt, "f 

After his brief and unsatisfactory attempt to 
find a permanent home in the Abruzzi, Gerson re- 
turned to Pesaro where he dwelt during 1519 and 
1520 printing no Latin or Italian books and only 
four Hebrew books. J His failure to print other 
than these few Hebrew books cannot be explained 
for the records are silent. He had been well es- 
tablished at Pesaro and had been well liked, but 
the hideous head of anti-Jewish feeHng was raised 
again and this together with the baneful efTect of 
militarism and the pernicious activity of the 
Dominicans now roused throughout the world as 
the result of the Reuchlin controversy, may have 
made the Jew persona non grata and the practice 
of his art impossible. As the sun set for him in 

* The desire to find support in the Hebrew books for the doctrine 
of the Trinity arose out of the spread of Cabbalism, a so-called science, 
through which Jewish mystics attempted to explain the mysteries 
of heaven and earth, and which had many Christian devotees among 
them the famous Cardinal Egidio of Viterbo, who in this very year 
1518 had assisted in the establishment of a Hebrew press in the city 
of Rome. 

t Manzoni p. 465-6. 

t In 1519 Talmud Babli HuUin and Midrash to the Megillot; 
in 1520 Pirke Eliayahu and the Later Prophets. 

[126] 



GERSON SONCINO 



one place it rose in another, and thus we find our 
courageous and much tried printer leaving Pesaro 
in 1520 to go to Rimini, whither he had desired 
to go in 1518 at the time when he was obliged as 
a second choice to settle at Ortona. 

On the 24th day of October 1518, "the Consuls 
and Ecclesiastical Council of Rimini assembled 
according to custom and in the usual place" the 
Palazzo del Comune, considered the petition of 
one Hieronymus Sonzinus an excellent printer of 
books (librorum impressore egregio) who sought 
a residence in the city and privilege to exercise his 
craft. After due deliberation they solemnly de- 
cided that as all public or private business among 
which the printing of books is to be worthily in- 
cluded, should be encouraged for the honor and 
benefit of the State, and as the cities of Rome 
Venice and Naples have favored printers of books 
"we owe it to the greater honor and benefit of our 
city Ariminium to follow in their footsteps; and 
as we should not only admit the said Magister 
Hieronymus to our city but should also assist him 
with favors, exemptions and subventions as much 
as possible; Now therefore," etc. etc.* Without 
going into further detail, suffice it to say that the 
worthy Ecclesiastical Council of Rimini in the 
States of the Church, showed marks of unusual 
favor to Gerson Soncino the Jew. It is possible 
that these ecclesiastical councillors were taking 
their cue from the Vatican where at that moment 

* Sacchi p. 22 ; where the whole document is quoted. 
[127] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

there was enthroned a Pontiff who was distinguished 
above all others for liberality culture and freedom 
from the general mania for persecution — the same 
Pope whose sympathy went out to Johannes 
Reuchlin in his contest with the Obscurantists; 
who in the same year 1518 notwithstanding the 
influence of the Men of Darkness permitted Daniel 
Bomberg to print a complete edition of the Talmud 
at Venice, and in his own city of Rome authorized 
the establishment of a Hebrew press for Elijah 
Levita. The men of Rimini must have known 
that Gerson Soncino was a Jew, for he had been 
printing for upwards of fifteen years in the neigh- 
boring cities of Fano and Pesaro. We must 
therefore conclude that this Ecclesiastical Council 
presided over by some mitred dignitary did, with 
full knowledge, admit the Jewish printer into its 
city and accord him exceptional privileges; to 
their great and everlasting credit be it recorded. 
If this liberal act be an indication of the character 
of the rule of the Church in Rimini, it helps us to 
understand why Pandolfo Malatesta last of the 
ancient house that for so many generations ruled 
over Rimini tried in vain for several decades to 
recover the city of his fathers, from which he had 
been ousted by the redoubtable Cesare Borgia. 
Like the citizens of Fano, who after the defeat of 
their lawful sovereign the Duke of Urbino, re- 
mained loyal to the victor Cesare Borgia because 
of the latter's milder rule, the people of Rimini 
probably preferred the rule of the Popes to that of 

[128] 



GERSON SONCINO 



the ancient and legitimate but petty and vicious 
tyrant Pandolfo. Had the Church continued 
through the following centuries to rule its prov- 
inces in the same spirit of liberality and toleration, 
the temporal power would probably never have 
been forfeited and the Pope would to-day be some- 
thing more than "the prisoner in the Vatican." 

In the best location in Rimini on the old Roman 
Bridge of St. Peter one time the Bridge of Augustus, 
where artists and craftsmen nobles and merchants 
were wont to pass and repass all day long, the 
Council assigned a bookshop to Gerson Soncino 
rent free for one year. They exempted him from 
all taxes and imposts (datio et gabella) so that he 
might import his paper and export his books with- 
out let or hindrance or financial strain, and to cap 
it all they did solemnly promise to pay twelve 
ducats out of the city treasury for one year's rent 
of an appropriate dwelling house in the city for 
him and his family.* In full faith and testimony 
of which they caused letters patent to be issued, 
with the great seal of the Comune of Ariminium 
written and sealed under their direction by 
Johannes Postumus Secretary of the Municipality. 

Perhaps it may be interesting to remember 
this old war-worn city, not only for the fierce tales 
of medieval life under the half savage Malatesti, 
not only for the tale of that sad pair whom Dante 
saw driven by the stormy blast of hell, but also 

* This contract resembles the one made with the Priors of Fano 
when they engaged Gerson to print their Statutes. 



[129; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

for this gracious act of courtesy and good will 
offered by a Catholic community and accepted by 
a Jew. 

Not until two years thereafter did Gerson accept 
the hospitality of Rimini, though tendered so 
handsomely. We do not know why he lingered 
at Ortona, returned to Pesaro and then waited 
there in comparative inactivity when this oppor- 
tunity was offered him at Rimini. As if to mark 
this period of his life he adopted as his book-mark 
the tower of Rimini, flanking it with a Hebrew 
motto from Proverbs "A tower of strength is the 
Lord; into it shall run the righteous and be saved" 
— the first Hebrew printer's mark in Italy. Al- 
though we are not concerned with that branch of 
bibliographical science which deals with book- 
marks nor with the pleasant hobby of collecting 
them, we may pause for a moment to contemplate 
the mark of the greatest of Jewish printers, wherein 
with characteristic ingenuity he combined loyalty 
to his faith and gratitude to the Catholic city 
that harbored him.* The freedom from the 
limitations of his time which led him to publish 
Catholic books is paralleled by his liberal inter- 



* True printers' marks are as a rule seals and often in the form of 
a seal and without words. These marks consist for the most part of 
figures of animals, taken from the coat-of-arms of the place of publica- 
tion or in connection with the name of the printer; and appear on the 
title page and also of other pages of the book, such as the epigraph or 
introduction, or the beginning and end of various parts. Such are the 
peacock of Sabbioneta, also used at Mantua and Venice; the small 
white lion in the black square, used at Constantinople; the lion with 

[130] 



GERSON SONCINO 



pretation of another old law regarding the repre- 
sentation of "anything in the heavens above, on 
the earth beneath or in the waters under the 
earth." It was quite unusual for the Jews to have 
anything to do with graphic arts, and an occasional 
departure from the ancient custom always re- 
quired explanation and apology. Not all were 
able to explain as wittily as Abtalion ben Solomon 
who when charged with the offense of having a 
picture of his teacher Rabbi Samuel Katzenellen- 
bogen of Padua on the wall of his study turned to 
Isaiah 30 : 20 reading, "and thine eyes shall see 
thy teachers."* The Soncino books, even those 
published in the lifetime of Israel Nathan Son- 
cino the founder of this press, were often orna- 
mented, not only with the interlacing geometrical 
designs with which Mussulman artistic fancy con- 
tented itself but with flowers Cupids and animals 
notably two hares whose cunning forms are seen 
so often in these books. How was it possible for 
a cultured man living in the Italy of Leonardo 
Rafael and Michelangelo, to name only the 
greatest of the multitude of great artists of the 
time to fail to respond to the influence of their 



the double tail and two globes, in the prints of Prague, taken from the 
coat-of-artns of Prague; the half lion and half eagle crowned, of Salonica; 
the lion battling with the horse, of Ixar; the griffin, of Grifio, of Venice; 
the elephant of Cavalli ; the candelabrum of Meir Parenzo ; the temple 
of Giustiniani, also used in Prague editions, also in Safet and Lublin, 
etc. Some of the prints of Salonica have a tower. Ersch & Gruber 
28 :2S. 

* Jew. Enc, 1 : 137. 



[131] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

genius, notwithstanding the prohibitions of cen- 
turies of legislation which had trained the eye of 
the Jew to see in the pictorial representations of 
an alien faith not art but false theology? 

Another device used by Gerson at Rimini was 
a title page whereon was pictured a portal with 
two columns and an arch designed and ornamented 
in true Renaissance style. Above the portal a 
small tablet contained the printer's name. This 
design was after Gerson's death freely Uvsed by 
other printers, who substituted for Gerson's name 
the motto "This is the gate of the Lord, the right- 
eous may enter into it." Nor can they be accused 
of plagiarism, for the design was probably not 
original with Gerson. In early days when books 
circulated in manuscript the author retained no 
property in them and the owner took all sorts of 
liberties with the texts. Thus copyists incor- 
porated emendations additions and notes with the 
original text and innocently made "new" books 
out of old ones. When books began to be printed 
the printers "borrowed" each other's title pages 
and devices almost without objection, and Aldo 
Manuzio's acquisition of literary copyright and 
exclusive right to use the cursive types is one of 
the first instances of what has become the universal 
rule in modern times. Gerson's Hebrew books at 
Rimini are not numerous but important. A 
Mahzor according to the Roman rite (1521) was 
followed (1522) by the Book of Roots. Daniel 
Bomberg, who was now actively printing at Venice 

[132] 



GERSON SONCINO 



and gradually encroaching on Gerson's book trade 
had brought out an edition of this work in 1521, 
and Gerson in his edition prompted rather by 
business competition than unselfish zeal for letters 
bitterly criticises its many flagrant errors. Fol- 
lowing these books he published the Kolbo, Bahya's 
and Rashi's commentaries on the Pentateuch, the 
Melizat Efer ve Dinah, Landau's Agur and the 
Abkat Rohel, a poor output for six years and an 

• nHyn* huh nHnn nSart tio -wan ^vt ion 

From Colopnon or Kolto 

Soncino, R-imini, 1525 

indication of the inroads made by the competition 
of Bomberg. 

It was in the shop of Bomberg in January 1525 
that Soncino met his fate, and excited the final 
cause which added to those that had been grad- 
ually developing resulted in his expatriation. Let 
Soncino tell the story in his own words.* "In 
January 1525 a Marrano apostate came from Rome 
to Venice speaking all day against God his law 
and his people. He wickedly discoursed against 
our young and old leaping Hke a goring ox. His 
dreams and words caused fear. It happened that 
while I was in the house of Messer Daniel talking 

* On last page of Melizat Efer ve Dinah 1S25. 

[133] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

business to him in the presence of Cornelio Israel 
(Adelkind) , Camillo the Greek and a Flemish 
servant, that the shameless one was there abusing 
me and daring me to write verses with him . . . 
I went into a shop and hastily wrote these few 
words : — 

This man proposes to write verses 
I am amazed at this idolater 
This nobody who is blind to his limitations. 
As impossible, this, as for me to go to Rome and apos- 
tatize ! 
Why bawl with a loud voice 
There being no reason ? You ignoramus. 
Who dare to vaunt yourself above me, 
You, whose pen is fetid with its vileness. 
I, not being a Christian, believed you wise; 
I find you an imbecile. 

I, not being a Christian, consider your pride and folly 
Before the multitude of strangers." 

We fear that Gerson's language was little better 
than his opponent's, but he was pouring out his 
long-pent sense of outrage suffered at Christian 
hands upon this apostate who weakly sought 
refuge in the bosom of the Church, and then not 
content with enjoying freedom from persecution 
himself tormented his former brethren in faith. 
It is said that this apostate revenged himself on 
Gerson by denouncing him at Rome for printing 
Talmudic treatises without a license and making 
sport of the Christian religion.* It is most likely 

* Rabbinovicz's Maamar, p. 27. Manzoni denies Rabbinovicz's 
theory; see also Freimann In Z. H. B. 9 : 22; and Sacchl p. 25. 

[134] 



GERSON SONCINO 



that Gerson lost his fortune and his peace of mind 
in defending himself against these charges, and 
in 1526 as if to combat them and seek support at 
the Roman Court published the "Mirror of the 
Holy Mother Church" by Cardinal Ugo di San 
Vittore. But we find him now fairly at the end 
of his career in Italy. It was probably at this 
time that he became of service to his unfortunate 
brethren in faith, who, to escape persecution fled 
to the Orient with his aid and assistance. In the 
preface of his Miklol* he says, "God be praised 
and may he be my support and the prop of my 
old age; may He record it to my credit that I 
helped the Marranos of Spain and Portugal. With 
all my strength will I endeavor to the end of my 
life to free them from the hand of their destroyers 
and lead them to a safe refuge under the shadow 
of the Mighty One, there to dwell under His pro- 
tection." In 1526 he contemplated his removal 
to Cesena and in 1527 we find him there printing 
the last of his publications in Italy, which curiously 
enough is a love-letter writer (Formolario di lettere 
d'amore) by Andrea da Gubbio.t 

Discouraged by the success of Aldo Manuzio 
and later by that of Daniel Bomberg, persecuted 
for his religion's sake and harried by financial dis- 
tress, his final determination to leave Italy was 
hastened by the sack of Rome and the events 
which immediately followed it. In 1527 under 

* Constantinople 1532-4. 
t Sacchi p. 25. 



[135 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

an absurd pretext of right against the protest of 
Pope Clement VII. the Constable de Bourbon 
entered Rome which was sacked and destroyed by 
the adventurers that composed his army. The 
Jews as usual bore more than their share of the 
horrors of this capture, and the scenes enacted in 
the densely populated district beyond the palace of 
the Cenci must be covered with the decent veil 
of oblivion. All Italy was shocked, all Jewry 
rent its garments and mourned. Gerson Soncino, 
in far away Cesena saw in this event the end of 
safety for the Jews of Italy, and with thousands 
of his co-religionists he took ship for the Orient.* 
In the realm of the Sultan Solyman the Magni- 
ficent the noblest monarch in Europe, Moham- 
medans Jews Greek and Roman Catholics lived 
and enjoyed religious rights under the protection 
of a strong arm and a wise head. At Salonica, 
one of the principal cities of the Mussulman power 
the sons of Gerson who had parted from their 
father had already established a flourishing press. 
Hardly had Gerson landed greeted his children 
and inspected their press, when the smell of 

* "Through the uninterrupted persecutions and exiles of the 
Jews . . ." says the historian Jost, Geschichte d. Judenthums u. 
seiner Sekten 111, 125 "through destruction of their writings, in the 
repeated terrors on the Iberian peninsula and burnings in France 
and Italy, Judaism was in decay, the number of the faithful diminished 
by death and apostasy, the spirit clouded, the most spiritual and learned 
obliged to seek for mere bread. A complete dissolution seemed 
imminent. Two events almost contemporary saved it from destruction, 
the invention of printing and the capture of Constantinople by the 
Turks." 

[136] 



GERSON SONCINO 



printer's ink aroused the old instinct and forth- 
with the veteran craftsman began a new edition 
of the Mahzor.* 

For some reason however he continued his 
journey to Constantinople, where for upwards of 
five years he produced many excellent books. The 
presses of Constantinople had been active since 
1503, and Gerson found many fellow-craftsmen 
in the Turkish capital. f 

In 1534 bowed with old age he left Constanti- 
nople to return to SalonicaJ to die in the arms 
of his children, and at the very brink of the grave 
he began the publication of another book the gram- 
mar (Miklol) of David Kimhi which was finished 
by his son Eliezer^f after his death. But although 
he had found rest and comparative happiness in 
the land of the Crescent, he ever looked back with 
hopeless longing to the land of the Cross. His 
love for his native land was too deep ever to be 



* In the Melizat Efer ve Dina published at Salonica, he uses the 
Christian month "Gennaro" with the Hebrew year a reminder of his 
earlier practice (see Mussar Haskel of 1504 where he uses "Ottobre"); 
although printing for Jews in a Mussulman land he still uses the Chris- 
tian chronology. 

t The Constantinople Soncino books were imported into Italy, 
and Turkey became an important printing centre in the sixteenth 
century. Elijah Levita reports to Widmanstadt that books wanted 
by him were not to be found in Venice and were only printed in Turkey 
and that a number of Soncino editions had just arrived in Venice from 
Turkey. Perles, Beitrage p. 159. 

J His son Moses had published at Salonica as early as 1521. Two 
of his prints are known, the Yalkut Shimeoni 1521 and a Mahzor 1526. 

f Eliezer returned to Constantinople and printed about 20 books 
there until 1547 when his press came into the hands of Eliezer Pamas. 



[137 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

forgotten. He had given up his life his thought 
and his means to the prosecution of the arts of 
peace, and to the attempt to contribute his portion 
toward the estabUshment of peace on earth and 
good-will among his Christian and Jewish fellow- 
men; he had sought to live in amity with his 
neighbors while the lives of his people were de- 
stroyed in fanatical persecution ; and in spite of 
many years of trial in Italy looking back from his 
quiet resting place in Turkey, his heart turned 
with longing and love to the land of his birth. 
Nor could the loving kindness of his children and 
the comparative ease of his life make him forget 
the bitterness of his exile and separation from his 
beloved Italy. "At the sunset of my life," he 
says, "I am come into a strange land and I am 
like the herd that perishes."* Of this admir- 
able man, Sacchi says "He was second only to 
Aldo in the sumptuous novelty and perfection of 
his works printed in Latin and Greek, and he 
ransacked the most hidden resources of typography 
and type cutting for his Hebrew texts. Although 
the publications of Bomberg in Venice seriously 
competed with his, nevertheless the beauty and 
variety of his types both in the square character 
and in the rabbinical the beauty of his ornaments 
and the variety of his works fully establish the 
great reputation which he acquired. To a man 
so celebrated whose name has so splendidly en- 
riched the land in which he was born there is due 

* Sacchi p. 26. 

[138] 



GERSON SONCINO 



the greatest respect, and in concluding our notice 
of him we trust that the discovery of other un- 
known works and the more careful research of 
bibliographers will bring to light other interesting 
particulars of the life of our printer."* 

A LIST OF HEBREW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY THE 
PRESSES OF THE SONCINATI. 

SONCINO. 

1483 Talmud Babli Berakhot 

" Bezah 

1484 Ibn Gebirol, Mibhar Hapeninim 
Bedersi, Behinat 01am 

1484-5 Abot with Maimonides 

1485 (?) Talmud Babli Megillah 

1485 Mahzor (Roman rite) vol. I. 
Earlier Prophets with Kimhi 
Albo, Ikkarim 

1486 Later Prophets with Kimhi 
Tefillat Yahid 
Haggadah 

CASAL MAGGIORE. 
1486 Mahzor (Roman Rite) vol. II. 

SONCINO. 
1486-7 Talmud 

* Apostolo Zeno called him "impressoria arte primarius et doc- 
tissimus rerum reconditarum"- Sacchi p. 27. 

[139] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1487 




Seder Tahanunim 
Talmud Babli Gittin 
Rashi to Pentateuch 
Talmud Babli Baba Mezia 


1488 




Bedersi, Bakashat Hamemmin, etc. 

Bible 

Kimhi, Mahalak Shebile Hadaat 

Moses of Coucy, Semag 


1489 




Talmud Babli, Shabbat 

" Baba Kamma 
" HuUin 
" Niddah 


1490 


(?) 


Tefillot 

Asheri, Turim 

Maimonides, Mishneh Torah 


1490- 


-1 


Ibn Sahula, Meshal ha-Kadmoni 
NAPLES. 


1490 


(?) 


Landau, Agur 


1490 




Psalms, Proverbs, Job 


1491 




Bible 



Pentateuch with accents 

BRESCIA. 

1491 Immanuel, Mahberot 

1492 Pentateuch with Megillot 

NAPLES. 
1492 Mishnah with Maimonides 

[140] 



GERSON SONCINO 





SONCINO. 


1493 


Talmud Babli, Bezah 




BRESCIA. 


1493 


Pentateuch 




Psalms 


1494 


Bible, with accents 




BRESCIA OR SONCINO. 


1495 


Mahzor (Roman rite) 




Tefillot (German rite) 




Selihot ( " " ) 




BARCO. 


1497 


Selihot 




Talmud Babli, Sanhedrin 




FANO. 


1503 


Hoshaanot 


1504 


Hai Gaon, Mussar Haskel 



Ezobi, Kaarat Kesef 

1505 Eleazar of Worms, Rokeah 

Sidur de tutto I'anno (Italian in Hebrew 
letters) 

1506 Jehudah Halevi, Kuzari 
Seder Tahanunim 

1504-6 Jonah Gerondi, Shaare Hateshubah 
Hai Gaon, Mussar Haskel 
Jonah Gerondi, Sefer Hayira 

1503-6 Haggadah 

1504-6 Mahzor (Roman rite) 

[141] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



PESARO. 

1507 Bahya Biur al Hatorah 
1507-8 Kimhi, Mahalah Shebile Hadaat 

Petah Debarai 

1508 Tefillah Mikol Hashana 
Talmud Babli, Yebamot 

1509-10 " " Bezah 

1510 Soncino, Mabo al otiot ibriot; intro- 

ductio ad letteras hebraicas 

1510 (?) Talmud Babli, Berakhot 

" Baba Kamma 

1511 Bible, 1st part 

Earlier Prophets with Kimhi 
1511-12 Talmud Babli, Baba Bathra 

" Megillah 

1512 Earlier Prophets, with Abrabanel 
1513-14 Nahmanides, Perush al hatorah 

Talmud Babli, Abodah Zarah 

1514 Bahya, Biur al hatorah 
Gersonides, Perush al hatorah 

1515 Later prophets with Kimhi 
Talmud BabH, Moed Katon 
Mahzor (German rite) 
Talmud Babli, Sukkah 

'" Erubin 



FANO. 
1516 Asheri, Turim 

[142] 



GERSON SONCINO 



PESARO. 

1517 Bible (2nd part) 

Nathan ben Yehiel, Arukh 
Bahya, Perush al Hatorah 

PESARO. 

1517 (?) Kimhi, Mahalah shebile Hadaat 

ORTONA. 

1518 Kimhi, Mahalah shebile Hadaat 

PESARO. 



1519 


Talmud BabH, HuUin 




Midrash Hamesh Megillot 


1520 


Pirke Eliayahu 




Later Prophets 




SALONICA. 


1520 


Albo, Ikkarim 


1521 


Yalkut Shimeoni 




RIMINI. 


1521 


Mahzor (Roman rite) 


1522 


Albo, Ikkarim 


1525 


Kol-bo 


1526 


Bahya, Biur al Hatorah 


1525 


Rashi to Pentateuch 



Benveniste, Melizat Efer ve Dina 
1526 Landau, Agur 

Machir, Abkat Rokel 

[143] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

SALONICA. 
1526 Mahzor 

1526-7 Yalkut Shimeoni 

1529 Mahzor 

CONSTANTINOPLE. 

1530 Siddur Tefillot 
1530-1 Bulat, Kelal Kazer 

Bashyazi, Aderet Eliyahu 

1531 Hai Gaon, Musar Haskel, etc. 
1530-2 Kimhi, Miklol 

1532-4 Kimhi, Miklol 

1532 Almoli, Shaar Hashem Hehadash 



1532-3 



SALONICA. 
Kimhi, Shorashim 



CONSTANTINOPLE. 

1532-3 Yabez, Hasde Adonai 

1533-4 Mizrahi, Sefer ha-Mispar 

1533 Nissim, Derashot 

1535 Immanuel, Mahberot 

1536 Vital, Keter Torah 

1537 David Cohen, Responsa 
1536-7 Kalaz, Sefer hamussar 

1538 Aboab, Nehar Pishon 
Shalom, Neve Shalom 

1539 Illescas, Imre Noam 
1539-40 Asheri, Turim 

1540 Algaba, Amadis de Gaul (?) 

[144] 



GERSON SONCINO 



CONSTANTINOPLE. 

1542 Ibn Yahya "Leshon Limmudim" 

1 543 Shabbetai ' ' Minhat Yehuda' ' 
Shabbetai "Milhemet hahokma vehao- 

sher" 
Benjamin of Tudela "Mas'ot" 
1543-4 Ibn Yahya "Shiba Enayim" 
1543-45 Job 

1545 Ibn Gebirol "Diwan," (Shirim uzemirot) 

1546 Pentateuch (Aramaic Hebrew, Persian 

& Arabic) 

1547 Pentateuch (Aramaic, Hebrew Greek 

& Spanish) 
1546-7 Barfat "Responsa" 



[145 



CHAPTER VII. 

DANIEL ROMBERG (1515-1522). 

The Primacy of Venice in Typography — Germans at 
Venice — Bomherg and Adelkind — The Latin Psalms of 
Felice da Praia — When Did Bomherg Begin Printing Hebrew 
Books? — The Early Printing Laws — The Jew-badge and the 
Ghetto — The Great Rabbinical Bible — Bomberg's Difficulties 
in Securing Renewal of His Copyright — Press Regulations 
— Papal Decrees Against the Talmud — The Reuchlin Con- 
troversy and Pope Leo X — The First Printed Talmud — 
Bomberg's Letters to Reuchlin. 

GERSON Soncino had one rival who, unlike 
Aldo not merely promised to publish good 
Hebrew books, but attained an excellence in the 
field long dominated by Gerson that ultimately 
led to the ruin of that devoted printer and sent 
him into Turkish exile. True, a wealthy Christian 
living in Venice, could succeed where the best 
Jewish printer in the world could not even gain a 
foothold; but besides these mere fortuitous ad- 
vantages Bomberg's love for Hebrew letters would 
have led him to success had he been less wealthy 
or less favorably situated than in the very heart 
of the world in beautiful and powerful Venice. 

At the beginning of the Sixteenth century 
under Doge Leonardo Loredano the Queen of the 
Adriatic was at the height of her glory and power. 
With marvelous energy she had recovered from 
the disasters inflicted on her by the League of 
Cambrai, and re-established her hold on the 

[146] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



mainland, while her unrivalled power at sea made 
her mistress of the Mediterranean and the centre 
of the commercial activity of the world. Her 
institutions were led by the most brilliant scholars, 
her great university at Padua harbored the most 
learned professors of the sciences, in her studios 
were the greatest colorists of the day. Eveiy line 
of trade, every move in the great world game of 
politics received final direction and shape under 
her influence. She was one of the first cities of 
Italy to establish a printing press, and her first 
printers, John of Speyer and Nicolas Jensen, con- 
tested the pre-eminence of the German printers of 
Subiaco.* 

The printers of Venice, among the first in time, 
were undoubtedly the first in excellence. Besides 
the influence of a highly developed art and a great 
world commerce, Venice gave to her citizens the 
assurance of a safe refuge where they could follow 
their peaceful occupations under the guarantee 
of a strong and stable government, and further- 
more, the opportunity of a ready market for their 
work. The artistic craftsmen of Venice could 
count not only on the large and cultured com- 
munity of merchant princes and ecclesiastics 
whose palaces covered her islands, but on the 
continuous influx of foreigners, whom trade or 

* The date of the first Venetian book 1461 is now supposed to be 
an error for 1471. John of Speyer printed "Epistolae Familiares" in 
1469 and Nicolas Jensen printed "Decor Puellarum'' in 1471. Brown, 
"The Venetian Printing Press " p. 8. 



[147 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

diplomacy brought to the city of Saint Mark. 
Venice encouraged her children to do all things 
well, to neglect nothing, to execute their purposes 
with an artistic idea expressed in every detail. 
No other city in the world has taken such pains 
to decorate herself; a glance at the facades of the 
palaces on the Grand Canal shows to what ex- 
treme this love of ornamentation was developed; 
even the gondola posts in the water are colored 
and blazoned with armorial bearings, and the 
buildings themselves on all sides present a be- 
wildering mass of beautiful interlacing design. In 
such an atmosphere her publications,* exact and 
perfect in scholarly and artistic details, estab- 
lished a standard in typography that prevailed in 
Europe for several generations. Here it was that 
Aldo Manuzio reached such admirable perfection 
in his work, here it was that Daniel Bomberg earned 
the title bestowed upon him by a representative 
scholar of his time "the Aldo in Hebrew books."! 
In the stream of craftsmen migrating to Italy 
we note the great number of Germans. "A vari- 
ety of reasons contributed to draw these Germans 
to the capital of the Republic. Her geographical 
position — her proximity to one of the great passes, 
the Brenner, which led right into the heart of 
Germany — and as a consequence of this geo- 

* "One of the reasons which induced so many foreign printers to 
settle in Venice was the excellence of the paper and the ease and cheap- 
ness with which it could be obtained." Brown "Venetian Printing 
Press" p. 24. 

t In a letter of Andrea Masio cited by Perles "Beitrage" 226. 

fl48] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



graphical position, the large and powerful colony 
of German merchants who frequented the city; 
the presence of the great German exchange, the 
Fondaco dei Tedeschi, where every German had 
an opportunity of meeting his fellow-countrymen, 
of receiving and transmitting news, of despatching 
and receiving goods — all these advantages tended 
to draw German printers to Venice upon their 
first arrival in Italy."* With these German 
Christians came German Jews in large numbers, 
followed by Jews from the Iberian peninsula after 
the edicts of expulsion of 1492 and 1496, who 
settled not merely at the capital but in many of 
the large towns on the mainland under Venetian 
sovereignty. The tide of immigration brought into 
Venetian territory the Christian Daniel Bomberg 
and the Jewish family of Adelkind, the former 
coming direct to Venice, the latter first to Padua 
and thereafter to the capital, where Cornelio 
Adelkind entered the shop of Bomberg and con- 
tributed mightily to the great and well deserved 
fame of his master. 

Daniel Bomberg was born probably in the 
eighth decade of the fifteenth century,! the son of 
a rich burgher of Antwerp, one Cornelius Van 
Bomberghen. It is said that he learned something 
of typography in his native city, where the press 
was first established in 1482, but whether this be 
true or not, it seems certain that he removed to 



* Brown, Venetian Printing Press, p. 28. 

t His son printed Treatise "Shekalim" in 1527. 

[149] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Venice about the beginning of the sixteenth cen- 
tury.* He was soon diverted from his intention 
of engaging in mercantile enterprises by his as- 
sociation with an apostate Jew, FeHce da Prato, 
who directed his attention to the press, and in 
1515 he began his career as a printer by pubHshing 
at the press of Herman Liechtenstein FeHce's 
Latin translation of the Psalms "Psalterium ex 
Hebraeo ad verbum fere tralatum", a translation 
made by Felice in fifteen days.f 

When did Romberg begin to print Hebrew 
books? Here as in so many instances tradition and 
written records disagree. According to the evidence 
of the published dates in the Bomberg books the 
earliest is the Pentateuch, Five Scrolls and Prophetic 
Portions issued in quarto on November 30, 1516 
(15 Tebet 5277). Yet the Jewish chroniclers as- 
sign to him an earlier date. Gedaliah Ibn Yahya 
in the "Chain of Tradition"! David Gans in the 
"Branch of David"T[ Yehiel Heilprin in the 
"Order of the Generations"** and H. D. Asulai 
in the "Name of the Great"tt all give 1511 as 
the date of the beginning of the Bomberg press. 
These are all based on the "Chain of Tradition" 
of Gedaliah, sometimes called the "Chain of Lies" 

* Wolf B. H. 2 : 945. 

tVogelstein & Rieger "Geschichte der Juden in Rom" 2: 37 
note 4; de Gubernatis "Materiaux pour servir a I'histoire des etudes 
orientales en Italie" p. 37-38. 
t Ed. Venice 112 b. 
1[ Ed. Frankf. 42 b. 
**p. 239. 
tt 2: 48. 

[150] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



by harsh critics who reject his record of oral 
traditions gathered at Salonica and Alexandria 
with rather undiscriminating impartiality. It has 
been shown however that as usual the critics are 
wrong.* 

Disregarding the tradition recorded by Gedaliah 
probably after Bomberg's death, we have the 
testimony of Bomberg's contemporary the careful 
and scholarly Joseph Hacohen who in his "Chroni- 




Initial ■word from K.abbuiical Bible 
Bomberg, Venice, 1317-1518 

cles of the Kings of France and the Kings of the 
House of Ottoman the Turk" records that "in 
this year (1513) Daniel Bomberg of Antwerp began 
to print," and the testimony of Bomberg himself 
who in 1515 appHed for a patent in his Hebrew 
type and copyright in his Hebrew books, for it 
had cost him much money to have the Hebrew 
letters cut and to obtain men learned in Hebrew 
to set up and correct the books. f It is probable 
therefore that the chroniclers are pretty near to 

* Jew. Enc. 12 : S82. 

t Brown, Yen. Print. Press, p. 105. 

[151] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the truth when they assign a date earlier than 
1516 to the first Bomberg books. Of these books 
however, nothing remains. It is possible that 
they were entirely consumed by the pyres of the 
Inquisition, notwithstanding that their printer was 
a Christian by birth and their editor one by con- 
version. We shall see that not even the laws of 
the Republic of Venice were strong enough to save 
from the relentless hands of the Inquisition, 
the property right of the children of Daniel Bom- 
berg in the stock of books left by their father, 
although law, justice and the influence of mighty 
men all spoke in their favor. Bomberg, entering 
a new field until then dominated by Gerson Son- 
cino, probably followed the usual practice, dictated 
by caution, of issuing his first books in small editions 
which, distributed only in Italy, might easily have 
been reached by the Inquisition. 

There appears to be no record of any license 
granted to Bomberg to print Hebrew books, but 
the fact that it was found necessary to obtain such 
minor privileges as copyright and patent in type, 
makes the supposition of an official license to 
print almost a certainty. Felice da Prato had 
been baptized in 1513* and having thus made 
himself persona grata with the churchmen who 
were beginning to assume authority in matters 
temporal and quasi-spiritual outside of the ter- 

* Z. H. B. 10 : 32, not in 1518 as stated by Vogelstein and Rieger 
2 : 37. Although the latter give some circumstantial details, the 
actions of Felice in Venice as far back as ISIS indicate his apostasy 
at that time. 

[152] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



ritorial limits of the States of the Church, he pre- 
sented a petition to the Venetian authorities set- 
ting forth that in order to pubHsh his books prop- 
erly it was necessary to have four Jews to super- 
intend the printing; but that unless they were 
permitted to discard the yellow cap it would be 
impossible to secure them because of the insult 
to which they would be subjected in the streets.* 
Existing regulations in Venice, originally inspired 
by the Fourth Lateran Council, required all Jews 
and Jewesses to carry in a prominent place on their 
outer garments a mark to distinguish them from 
their Christian fellows. During the wars of the 
League of Cambrai, the common danger uniting 
all Venetians regardless of creed in defense of the 
State had somewhat relaxed the anti-Jewish regu- 
lations, but with peace ecclesiastical influence 
again asserted itself, re-enforced the old measures 
to separate the sheep from the goats, and not only 
compelled the Jews to wear a yellow hat, but 
assigned them to that special quarter in the north- 
western part of the island city which to this day 
bears the name of Ghetto and which remained the 
exclusive dwelling place of the Jews from March 
29, 1516t until Napoleon Bonaparte tore down 
its gates and proclaimed equal rights unto its 
inhabitants. 

We are not concerned with scholarly specula- 
lation as to the origin of the Ghetto and of its 

* Brown, Yen. Print. Press, p. 105. 
tH. B. 1 :17. 



[153] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

name. Although the origin of the name appears 
to be unknown, the institution itself was repre- 
sented in nearly all the cities of Italy, and the 
regulations concerning it were all based on the 
fundamental principle that a Jew as an enemy 
of Christ, hence of the government of Christ on 
earth, must be kept from too close association with 
those good Christians who had, through the course 
of centuries learned to accept the government of 
the church as the fixed and unalterable will of 
God. Jews, being heretics, might sow seeds of 
dissension in faithful hearts, and lead innocent 
Christian souls into danger of hell fire. Com- 
mercial communities like Venice cared less for 
the spiritual aspect of the question or its effect on 
ecclesiastical sovereignty than for the monetary 
profit to be derived from the Jews. Whereas in 
Rome the House of the Neophites was established 
just outside the Ghetto precinct, and all sorts of 
lures and threats were used to win converts, in 
Venice there is little record of conversionists' 
activity, and restrictive measures were designed 
for revenue only. Although Christian money- 
lenders of Venice were permitted to charge forty 
per cent, interest, the Jews, always conceived to 
be rich beyond the dreams of avarice, were com- 
pelled to conduct three public loan offices at their 
own expense and make loans at only five per cent, 
interest; the economic effect of which was to 
end the career of the Christian money-lenders, and 
to circulate only Jewish capital. When Venice 

[154] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



became the centre for the Jewish book business, 
the privilege of printing books was never con- 
ferred upon a Jew. Only members of patrician 
houses could obtain the right to establish presses, 
and although many distinguished Jewish printers 
printed at Venice, it was always under the name of 
some Christian publishing house, Di Gara, Zanetti, 
Bragadin, Vendramin and others. Thus when 
Bomberg employed Jewish workmen he had to 
obtain for them the privilege of making themselves 
inconspicuous by discarding the yellow cap. And 
so difficult was the acquisition of this privilege 
that Felice in his first application asks for it for 
four months only and revocable at the pleasure 
of the College of the Senate.* In 1515, at the 
same time that the service of Jewish workmen 
was obtained, Bomberg applied for and obtained 
the copyright in the books and patents in the 
Hebrew types, "lettere cuneate si in rame come 
in stagno o in altra materia improntate."t Felice 
da Prato had obtained from the Pope a copyright 
which authorized his books for Rome and the 
States of the Church and also assumed to grant 
him rights in all states outside of Papal temporal 
domination. I Bomberg very prudently concluded 
that the Papal privilege did not run into Venice 
and disregarding Felice's privilege he applied to 
the College of the Savii.Tf This grant of copyright 

* Brown, Yen. Print. Press, p. 105. 
t Brown, Ibid. pp. 98, 105. 
J Brown, Ibid, p. 63. 
If Brown, Ibid. 

[155] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

to Bomberg involves the beginning of a conflict of 
jurisdiction between the Church and the State 
which ultimately resulted in the dethronement of 
Papal supremacy in all save matters of faith. 
The first great work published in large folio by 
Bomberg (1517-1518), great in design as well as 
in execution, was the rabbinical Bible (Mikraot 
Gedolot), the complete text of the Bible, with 
many old and new commentaries and additional 
legal and liturgical matter in the appendices,* 
edited by Felice da Prato, who wrote the dedica- 
tion to Pope Leo X. and prepared the massoretic 
notes. t The work however required such great 
erudition and accuracy that even this finely exe- 
cuted edition was severely criticized by the great 
grammarian, Elijah Levita, after he had come to 
Venice and connected himself with the press of 
Bomberg. { About the same time that he issued 
the rabbinical Bible, Bomberg published the 
Biblical text in two parts, and the Pentateuch and 
Five Scrolls, all during the sixteenth year of the 
reign of Doge Leonardo Loredano. In the mean- 
time the Senate passed a general law relating to 
the repeal of privileges granted to printers which 
recited in its preamble that formerly there had 

* "Without Bomberg, the great Massora would perhaps not have 
been published for a hundred years." Zunz "Zur Gesch." etc. p. 10. 

t The collection of traditional information by which the text of 
the Biblical books was fixed beyond the possibility of change, either 
through the ignorance of scribes or the failure of human memory. 
Vogelstein and Rieger 2 : 37 note 4. 

t Jew. Enc. 3 : 158. 

[156] 




KaS^ na rinV vi3 i |ai3 Hc^ijun tuao^ n^o tdk Kn"3|fi WV^_ "l^tfi [<arfn«i,Ttora"wi n'oa nnfl vtl'ijr ym sjyjwi 

^n'x(j3'n3(n3nn_hKTiinno_iiDyn'n3,n3iH)Ko'ii>(DnBfloSa'39iwn'$'^ Vl^,"3*PP.3'n3pwi^i«;n 

nwanna Kn'Tu)'wa'p4) ipMij»ii»niifliJ'nyiK7i;DiKiwa'*n*'ivsi3iJiVM3ti3^^ Vn^.iPQil 

S«■^b'lU3T3^'n^DnllK^p'Dnv^,^?o^'*ov3^l^mlp^^Y^9^i^Kn'nB)^f^ *03g,f*tpn5|Bi^>rt»n^T^'<'T?*^,l'^* 
"?9!r.?i?U33n3nnK^tiTn3in3ni';'Dni;,iDn3.n'iro^^ oprw^pTsinTinT^nnsmTnapTjg^ 

a'n3in3niNnAiDppann.V3Kni*;v^.3'V3^V(n'nvKnn'ti^>n wKDS^;H3iunD3y«rppmT)Si<^Bnic^nhWw 

V^on^" i'l^'"' 7"r.'"''°-'!T^.^ *??? ^^9 '^'i ' '^p"" ' ^^i'^ii^^'RH T°iE."'^^V '^,'^,^^Vo^«^3o'lp\■^Dt '3'M W103 pjoi 

1 13-;D''33fil I JPDWl TDIM nv fij)' ftipp 'jJ p^ "W"! flBl W3l3 Ppsi ft 31' Tnft fr)J')1 -IJjrD ir D'pD O'fSft TOT rt^^^^ 

pr»*)MiS'j<'ftT -f^r inftnrD'")nDp»frifr?DiroPTiDb)P':s)ftSj)''njnr'JD"iin3ftrjn3Da»i3TD'/»'33? ' 

■ iPippj D'f* D'ft DTin DTw oiM,-' wjiaT rnniPm o-np Sj) dtjA'j 3D'>5 flippy jtjdp disjiJ 'a Ja »snpfn ■ prfnprn nw frif7':> f idV ii 
ran -jorii pcfiTiD-Jusiprr piioa piftjopSi f3iinpftf3TPniu-»n(ipiu ytSjiifriD' pn^SD DTpn rna ripJonfrw ^sfi ijTih> 
irfi itfi 701DP pf<i iij)7» "iDfi oijp jAi i>TBn rA i-wpi ^sn if* 'S aiu 'spoftw ii'ft t naioftt nrt irftS '"tot Sap tS pSud i"? tdA wiofri 

»3 c ji'Tipi nrs napfta pp J lopsopa lofi p'Ssd fnosi pw 'isi ■ nnas nop vsm ppva li i3 ppn e^ p' joa b mm rSft rimas yapft 

-PD'ftfiiPiiTDftfrn-nj'a •pnii'OP'pil'DftSi -pssoJpftS 

^rfi: TOft 3»TIK» b 5j) fifPO TD - lip DiSdPD iJp DIP DVTDP TD3 Offlpfip Ppio^S 11^13^ >» ' ^^^0^ TP^ 0'T*Dn | NU/ 

CTp "oijop i3D ifriB^i Dnnw I'D )3 ^zo W3 ns oPisp ti>c hi pyps '31 ip^ .■5fri' !»» IP Ji ijnsrftp'mppi 

■p 'J ft3P )i Tpfr 0) Jip:5 PSJOl t^T* p6plu» iW PPJ1 13TP Ppi PilW f 3 iwifi ' J» inft • ITOTpP DTJ* 6Tipr> TDJ 

CPO pfir JJtDD ■ OTS-^ PT" Di-JTin TPI Die Q'JlJOP Ss ^3 . ' PMjm PB)W pP* frpPWJ P^lpP v I"!*! JDTOT ";» "Jb p3D "p V I'^'P V 

Page of Song of Songs from First Rablinical Bitle 
Bomberg, Venice, 1517-1518 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

been many printers in Venice who directly and 
indirectly greatly benefitted the Republic. But 
the custom of obtaining privileges (copyright) had 
grown to such an extent that many printers find- 
ing no road open to their industry emigrated, to 
the great damage of public and private interests. 
The Senate therefore revoked every privilege 
granted and permitted any one to print any of the 
books mentioned in these privileges. And the 
law furthermore provided that in the future only 
new books, or books never before printed, "solum 
pro libris et operibus novis, nunquam antea im- 
pressis et non pro aliis", could be protected by 
copyright and these only by a vote of two thirds 
of the Senate. Thiis Bomberg lost the copyright 
in his Hebrew work which he had obtained in 1515.* 
Bomberg having now decided upon a still more 
brilliant enterprise, namely the publication of a 
complete edition of the Talmud, was obliged to 
protect himself from possible competition by a 
renewal of his copyright. He made his applica- 
tion in 1518 and the Senate by a vote of 113 ayes 
against 17 noes and 7 doubtful granted it.f It may 
be that the adverse minority were merely watch- 
dogs of the treasury, who took advantage of every 
opportunity to replenish a treasury that was being 
constant!}- drained by the expenses of the Turkish 
wars, for there were no other Hebrew printers in 
Venice who might have exercised an adverse in- 

* Brown " Venet. Print. Press ", p. 74. 
t Brown, Ibid, p. 105. 

I 158 1 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



fluence. Perhaps his opponents were friends of 
the "clerical" party, at that time roused to great 
activity through the great controversy between 
Reuchlin and the Dominicans. Perhaps they 
know of his attempts, about to be successful, to 
obtain a license from the Pope himself to print 
the bitterly hated Talmud. We, who are accus- 
tomed to the unbridled license of the press, can 
hardly realize the meaning of censorship, except 
through what we know of conditions still existing 
in Russia. To print a book was a privilege ac- 
corded to few, and exercised under supervision of 
those whose first care was the suppression of any- 
thing in the slightest degree questioning the 
authority of God and the King. The status quo 
was maintained by the zealous and eternal vigi- 
lance of the servants of church and state, who 
pounced upon the slightest attempt to minimize 
their authority. In the states in which the zeal 
of churchmen was greater than the interest of the 
secular power, this supervision of actions and 
speech approached a condition of absolute in- 
hibition on public utterance of any sentiment 
except that of unreserved submission to the con- 
stituted authorities and their interpretation of 
that which was permitted and forbidden. In the 
days of Pope Leo X., during the preliminary 
skirmishes of the Reformation the dominant power 
in Rome was the Dominican order, who, furi- 
ously incensed at their unsuccessful attempts to 
suppress Reuchlin and the humanists and to stem 

[159] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the rising tide of Lutheranism and revolt, were 
fanatically embittered against the Talmud, which 
had by reason of its defense by Reuchlin become 
the symbol of free thought and opposition to 
monastic intolerance. 

The natural liberality of Pope Leo X. and the 
many influences friendly to Jews that surrounded 
him prompted his interest in Jewish literature and 
not only moved him to grant permission for a 
Jewish Press at Rome but resulted in his open ad- 
vocacy of the Talmud. 

When Pope Benedict XII I., deposed in 1409 
by the Council of Pisa, sought refuge in Spain, 
where he was still acknowledged the legitimate 
successor of St. Peter, he showed his zeal for 
religion by the well-worn practice of an attack on 
the Jews. With truly paternal zeal for their 
spiritual welfare he published a bull in May 1415, 
forbidding them to read or teach that damnable 
book the Talmud and ordering all copies of it to 
be destroyed; but in 1417 before his benevolent 
purpose could be accomplished the Council of 
Constance representing a reunited Church ended 
the Papal career of Benedict by electing Pope 
Martin Y. This new Pope soon renewed the 
decree of his predecessor against the Talmud but, 
as had happened so often, events of greater practical 
importance put this question temporarily in the 
background. At this time the entire attention of 
the Church was occupied by the growing power of 
the Sultan who was not only, like the Jews, the 

[160] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



enemy of Christ, but also a constant danger to the 
power of his earthly representative. So the Turk 
saved the Talmud by simply being a Turk, and 
although all the good Christians of Italy who had 
never read the book continued to take it for granted 
as a very wicked and damnable thing, they made 
no serious attempt to suppress it. When in 1483 
the Soncino press produced two Talmudic treatises 
no one seems to have paid any attention to them, 
or to the many other treatises that followed. 

Toward the beginning of the sixteenth century 
Joseph Pfefferkorn, a Moravian Jew, finding him- 
self in straitened circumstances, his trade as 
a butcher apparently proving unprofitable, at- 
tempted to improve his condition by burglary. 
After he had served a term of imprisonment, he 
embraced Christianity and, as a violent and 
bloodthirsty Jew hater, seems to have flourished 
for many years thereafter. We are not so much 
concerned with his successful method of earning 
a living as with the fact that his attacks on the 
Talmud, encouraged by the Dominicans of Ger- 
many, the most illiterate and stupid of all the 
monastic brethren, led to the conflict between the 
Humanists and Obscurantists, which brought out 
the noble Reuchlin's temperate and well-considered 
defense of the Jews and their literature. The 
charge of heresy brought against Reuchlin by the 
Dominicans raised the issue of the relation of the 
Talmud and rabbinical writings towards Chris- 
tianity. The trial of the case dragged from 



[161 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Mainz to Speyer, and thence to Rome, but long 
before the final decision was rendered, Pope Leo 
X gave unmistakable indication of his position in 
the controversy between culture and ignorance. 
This noble son of Lorenzo di Medici, whose plastic 
intellect had been moulded by the master hand of 
Poliziano of Florence, who had been initiated into 
the mysteries of the Hebrew tongue and its litera- 
ture, was deaf to the importunities of ignorant 
monks and overzealous apostates. To the great 
consternation of the faithful, he followed the sug- 
gestion of his friend, Cardinal Egidio of Viterbo, 
to permit the establishment of a Hebrew press at 
Rome and he officially endorsed Daniel Bomberg's 
project to print a complete edition of the Talmud, 
"Mihi" says Bomberg, "a Summo Pontifice de- 
mandatum".* Whereupon Messer Daniel, within 
five years, completed this magnificent work, spar- 
ing no expense in the execution of what he called 
"opus certe magni et laboris et impensae" — to the 
delight of Jews and Christian scholars and to the 
chagrin and despair of the pious multitude. But 
good Popes die and periods of enlightenment are 
followed by drastic reaction. Thirty years after 



* "Hac occasione sententiam contra libellum Capnionis extorse- 
runt (Cardinalis Prierias et tota Praedicatorum factio) quamvis pauUo 
ante Pontifex quosdam exhortatus fuisset, ut Talmut imprimerent ac 
adeo privilegiis exornasset". From a Rescript from Rome 1521 
cited in Riederer's "Zur Kirchen, Gelehrten und Buchergeschichte." 
1 : 180; see Graetz 9 : 197; Vogelstein and Rieger 2 : 37 note 3; see 
also letter of Bomberg to Reuchlin printed in Wolf B. H. 4 : 142 and 
given in translation on p. 165. 

[162] 



naw 






»Dro P3IDP fili' -VO fiil "IDS pOTD oAl 5lp5)'!m>r3"P I'M"'™ 

BflDrptji p?oiPpOjpa)ii'iDVTD 
fTojT 'sp'pi TiB3ft pTP ojnwt 

Mt per ttpp"3ipip'fnnSip3 

fniD'fi 'tS ipft pIi iMcia pTpTi Sds 
iinfiSiaala qftpSiDS':pf>pn)ftT 
pm 'oro bft iwn' ms frlsnftsD'i 
^'Sja' fiJB'i (iPD i:jpi6:piD«nfrS 
airw cfOT D'nps oiio (wofiTs 
run P5UP "m ^'3i:ii fiiorpn^ rps 
•wis D' 'p3 '6 (5 pTD tt pwspji 
.firfiiD pqnfiinrsPDPiMm'pDl'i 

pi»pVr>K>D P3»n -n'nphip^Sip 

3jf) »ap5) PSlDDPiftSPpfto'lDSP 

tiiips Mor la ui w ppP3i03 f3ri 
jnw ppon mpEspi cp pw'ft wft 

ffpS B'fi Pn wi'BD' rpilPPPT'D 

f ftpi iS'sfii P13P PDO pf'l'ip trifn 
pftnpi pcppisjiPDippp wipfn 
cjI3npft*ra ppSirftiPisifsiiriift 

ipP3PP»»I V3S0 pfSin 



*3T1 




Dncd) "iijij fnp psfp oj piTP 
t>SiP5 'ftrfi Piips P31PP KnSpftT 

jJd foS fin f'3:t'SDP?b'Ur3ii 
1>>ppi'SipWnD3Pnrinpfii cn» 
6JV ownfipnmiD'lIip'DTiSin 
fiif"iDftpTr'3TP2iDlciDpf'rou 
<ro'npjp S^I'^'P'' P'^" ^D■'pfI» 
cAt3ftp>'p onoj! iipSpMsnispt* 
rsiDTOm'pj fcoTiD'-sajppbjpS 
B)f r hsp I^T ro iTpnft fipniH 

i?iD3fp"TlfnpjpDP 
>mi'flDl0pFliTpiiT3S "3 

•DOpi rroO tiSfi pilfiTp:'ftOPTB 

»T)iftiT»TsSf'r^"5fnpr>lpDp]ap 
■Bsfio P31W ^PlS^ rP3u ptp t^ 
ppiin fill (ionpfipofii 'ftTppiBii 
!aii;fti>ftTrrrncsSp'>)fnftppDf'ift 
•jpfi iftpft [3 Dft sap ppift PDniD'5 , 
SlpjiS Jjpi MpunjpWpjp^piftM 
ppso'tpj nr 6iD onpppp'nc^p 
rif J DiDP "Jipfn -JPii 'ap'P jl'oN 
pirr» ppJ [npfti '^pip ip PTjP 
pppp^mip' D-JiTfipiT^pji^Dua 
rp "jpy)^ TftiropiDPpifiiDnpM 
ipip piprfPTTTO^^ li pp po "jppS 'i; 
copA ppipVp'nA-Tp Sipp^Tuptat 
5dp p:op plP'Sp^DipafiSl6:pm 



ntay nmai ru'Ncn TMnmin'mi 
nnonBi msfli ntti^onSpNcncs'nflij 
[an 'oj ■.rfreanrfnorana 
uyiy nDN onwyo n«i kvw 130 onn 
naio '3J WW 'ND I'lx un bin min'on 
uropn 'Jm iM'aj'jis'KD'inSiDa'jm 
'jn [wniaD rHoa w isnniNi nsio 
w 'OJ w'niinioMJ'Kn'P'NiNwpn 
'jm ptifl nS'o 'la'iui njit; ctd Knjpn 
tvwijpn w rr'i'nB'fljK'n'iMnSiBa 
lyr [yoS enpbmnaiinic^'B'jn wo 
htrw' 'M nn 'n^uvi'uioa'SDa'nnii 
713103 Ti NinwynvoiNnoNtanwyiy 
n3iD3 TKi yivoiNpKnonbon'iyo'T 
Ksnobs NTi '3T wy n3 NuSf nSi'iibo 
non'nttiy lyaiinoDov'ixSn'nnnsioi 
HON onuiyo nSyo'i nsio Svs aav jjn 
rms^ Sx3 p>j'?Nn3iB')X3'3e;v oiNpn 
inaiD nioiyn nrya i>»'i!<"3iin'';ioK 
lOK ,-i3iO'inNSi wanD'rp'nrnnya 
n3ib'iv WN o'lip nnniay Si nnn n'S 

•K3N N3ni n31D 'iyi>J3'Sni33l'ill<3n 

inin'ioNO'0'rty3a»i3iinm3'ie3N3no 
m'i3 3m y3p mno nx owt nysis "73 
nnimn nisiy munoN mwy Ty 'Kiy 
nt»iy Old pNnoNDnwyonSyoS'my 
itS ton y3pnTiis'7(( "unymnirm 
•]3'BiSn3HB)iv'nonB.'ynnyaKSN"3(( 
un rth im n3io in nsSt 'oj on |3) Sy 
MTVT nisiy'iNi noN Dnmyiy^Vj'aKp 
P'flj 'ojyspnTin'STsyo'xiynn 
rm WTiteiy mtanBti'TfyonSyoS 
p'33 NsS WNiymn n'Sr3y'3y3p 
inSia 



nsiD 

"p)0)PTTW3 piBp rnno TD3P rflif 

DSd i^RPUDISP^nbPIDSPPlUpT'fiOl 

rannppnpc) MpStrS'fnnu'pspos'* 
' PDip P"n;> i5pn DD ^ lyftp'jjsftip npi3iT53B3 ujnwpjiw 
nspprnfiiPD'on , 'W 
riD^S nro ib^ii p*n3 jp dips ftiPD' 
Pifioi ri''3i'nJr'nP9r>T3P)t«n:» 
'>b5 "Tpp piDiftjpnpooipnmi 
ipip-jp fraipb O'TOP npft) rn'3" 
ppftblwpp) aiTOlibnoPpiDW 
»Dn3P)|Si3SriDTop?) prai pioi 
p3 iftpM iTSPP b (inropi ijip'o o 

•wSl PITSPP pTPfij fjip'DP POTll 

pjipjfiip anpi pro*) PS'PPiS pfip 
mfm TDip is'ijp D'Tin piDi!» ppn 

llplftfplT'nSl'iOOPPID-iSPIPDC* 

cpnn'i3)3'A li'jjijirap' ppfi 

B'TDPl''P"''l''^P5'P 'ftjOTffJSff 

poDig'-jipi fiprtiiftw^ai'plnppl' 
'sp ' 'jpT) rnffi*D p w^3 P3PPi> 
■jpiSa Sips ppS ps 'sp'ps t^ p^ w 
p'Sdi 'OP ' psSps' p'J'psrKn n 
piarp dSm p'5 'JP 'pn^fnnn arw 

5»pD ppiroTriT'B^^^H''"'r* 
'T> ir P3DP r3Dn> cmp pipuffipi 
rar^ iipiswipfniPpSr^^'i* 
ifip:pp') wS TU ip3 fip^ifro ftn'i' 
ppi'pp pmJ^firpiT'D'MTPae 
psppi p:pi Jai prfp '=0^ T""'"* " 

ptaJ) ppULl p:'ftD31 DIP' POD p» 
PPPPDI pi POP pMTDiD pJf'frpi 
piiPD 'Vf p^3 V^^ iDpffPi-anp 
■1 pi)P9iP3 fPii?iiP3'ii3'pS'3jn 
pi3p in iTpJpS DTfi pJO'f S py^ 



ppi 1 tnoT) Pptfb P'S'P fDwrt 'Oj> 
3'pn •jirJS's'pTD^ P3ID PDP IPT 
iri ilD'i >ri3 "P3DIP P12W3tPT 
lUlDP 'TP ftSP pftljilf'IP'Jc'TI 

ifipTiS piS p^m ipip TIM ' «P ir^ 
ispppft mi B-ftp ^M P3 ^uSd ftS"* 



P^P P31PI • PPD3 l^P ""P P5IP> 

■ 'iai'ipjp W^iKspf'PPDpisi 

PfSpr pPJP pSiSPDPUDlSHf'W' 

f rpi> lap'ns r'^ »P^ ^D fP3u T^ 
hWtiopfDD ftTrai!nP"PJ)b'piP 
'ftp3T faatitpS D'p saift bsa-ift 
tpBsT JdSs ftiA'lSpSsftD'SfiltP'O 
niuppplni wiP 'spoyippnpDJ) 
pmiT Ppn pft npp P3aiipfn DP*3^ 
P510 h ft^•ipB^^^^ ' ^sa do 
• )>Ka ppp ftsp: PT^rpp pto PPf'D 

CPlftSlPI pJODipP^lPO'PTBW 
pippJ. ip)!ipri3'np3P^«ftl8 

PTnynp) pprr pkbA T^* cidpp 

0' 'fnn TnTSp'o pdop^pj** 

rt sii Pflps PK) npi 'Awpp ifco 

•nstp ppifiiA'fi-jmipmpiwfw 

ifr)5)piTP'H>5j'7)ro4pii3'ftpropP3tDi»?'flV/T4 



W [anp ttft Tftfi Mt f m Dipr 

•ft pissnDfTn'pf'h'psiip'iDnplYrP'DD'rtUPDTP'pSfis^ via. 
Tjim wp fiS i5Sp'''SeS»pripP ip^o ppsp^ rappSDp jop tpi tjb 
pptpjSTwiP D'TrTflTr 'j-ji fin'3 'p3 ^rau 'lippi'fiTBpSTiMn . . 

■' oip i]3p'SpippDfi)'fiT»P5:ppOTnPiDP'fi'nWftPW»yoTWrtvfih)WTO^wpp)cnip'p35T3K'53inTp 

II I 9 ft 

Page of Sukkat, First Edition of Talmud 
Bomterg, Venice, 1521 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Pope Leo X came Pope Paul IV., the gloomy 
Caraffa of Naples, founder of the Roman Ghetto, 
scourge of the Jews, censor of the press, enemy of 
liberty, the best hated man in all Christendom, 
who in the intoxication of his fanaticism ruthlessly 
tore down all that the scholarship and humane 
liberality of Leo had built up. For by his renewaj 
of the numerous decrees against the Talmud and 
rabbinical writings, and his whole-souled energy 
in directing their practical execution, thousands 
of manuscripts and printed copies of the Talmud 
and other books were confiscated and publicly 
burned to the glory of God, and so effective was 
the work of destruction that some of the Soncino 
editions of Talmudic treatises have utterly dis- 
appeared and only one complete manuscript copy 
of the Babylonian Talmud, now at the Royal 
Library of Munich, survives.* 

Beginning 1519 with the treatise Pessahim 
(Passover) t the work proceeded steadily until on 
June 3, 1523 the last treatise the Mishnah Taharot 
(Purification) issued from his press. Nothing was 
allowed to interfere with the work not even the 
desire of Bomberg to comply with Reuchlin's re- 
quest for an edition of Psalms, Proverbs and 
Ecclesiastes. A letter of Bomberg to Reuchlin 

* This single brand plucked from the burning, together with the 
Bomberg printed edition, has become the basis for the much criticized 
but, nevertheless, important attempt at a scientifically revised modern 
edition of the Talmud, now in process of publication under the direction 
of Lazarus Goldschmidt at Berlin. 

t Rabb. "Maamar" p. 31 note 36. 

[164] 



DANIEL BOM BERG 



reprinted by Wolf* may here be allowed to speak 
for the great printer. 

" You have asked me to send you a copy of the 
Psalms, Proverbs and Ecclesiastes in one handy 
volume, printed with accents. God knows I 
would gladly do this, did not the Talmud, a work 
involving the greatest labor and expense entrusted 
to me by the Pope, hinder me from complying with 
your wish, for as long as I have the Talmud in 
hand, I can not meet your request without the great- 
est personal inconvenience. You are not the only 
one to whom I must write this. However God 
willing, at some future time I shall be able to print 
all the more beautifully what I cannot do now. 
But I should consider myself ungrateful and rude 
did I not, as much as lies in my power, have a 
care for your immortal fame, and the work which 
I shall commence at your order, shall end in your 
praises (inadequate though they be). Your vir- 
tues however are so illustrious that I might even 
pass over your name in silence, for as is well known 
you are famous in Hebrew and Greek literature 
and nature can be said to have made you more 
just to others than to yourself, always seeking to 
profit others rather than yourself. Your diligence 
and vigilance have brought to light many most 
useful things that were hidden in a prison house of 
shadows; now they can be seen and read every- 
where. But my courage fails me, for in attempting 
to sound your praises I am merely spoiling what 

* B. H. 4 : 142; and see ed. of Psalms 1521. 



[165] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the most eloquent Fabius is about to expound. 
Farewell. 

Venice, October 9, 1521."* 

Though delayed by the pressure of other work, 
Bomberg did not forget Reuchlin's request and 
in 1522 he published an edition of Proverbs Canticles 
and Ecclesiastes, prefacing it with a letter to 
ReuchHnf in which he expressed his unfeigned 

* Daniel Bombergus Joanni Reuchlin Phorc. legum doctor! S. D. 

Petiisti a me ut uno volumine Psalmistam cum Salomonis Pro- 
verbiis & Ecclesiaste in enchiridii forma cum accentibus impressum ad 
te mitterem, quod medius fedius libenter effecissem, nisi me Talmud, 
opus certe magni & laboris & impensae, mihique a Summo Pontifice 
demandatum, tuis vetuisset desideriis satisfacere, quoniara non sine 
meo magno incommode (dum Talmud est in manibus) quod rogasti 
posset expedire; hoc tamen non solum ad te mittitur; reliqua vero 
alias, Deo dante, commodius excudentur. Nunc autem ingratus & 
inhumanus mihi videar, nisi tuum noraen, quantum in me est, aeterni- 
tati mandandum curem, ut, quod tuis jussis coeptum est, tuis etiam 
(quamvis multo plures ac majores merearis) laudibus absolvatur, 
Quem enim patiuntur tuae virtutes praeclarissimae tuum silentio 
nomen praetermittere, quum de Hebraeis Graecisque Uteris (ut late 
patet) sis ad eo bene meritus, quod justius dici potes aliis natus, quam 
tibi ipsi, nam alienara tuae semper utilitatem praetulisti; tua enim 
industria tuisque vigiliis multa perutilia, quae a tetro tenebrarum 
carcere claudebantur in lucem prodierunt, eaque nunc ubique videntur 
et lectitantur. Sed, quo progredior nimis audax, tuas dum Conor 
laudes enarrare, deterens quas nedura Fabius ille facundissimus se 
speraret explicaturum. Vale. 

Venetiis nono Kal. Oct. 1521. Wolf B. H. 4 : 142. 

t Dan. Bombergus Jo. Reuchlino Phorcensi L. L. doctori S. D. 

Etsi Talmud e Rab Alphes impressione praepeditus, nedum hinc 
ad septem menses, me sperabam tuis posse desideriis respondere quibus 
tunc ultimam (ut spes est) sumus manum imposituri. Vicit tamen 
quod videbatur difficillimum ac minime tentandum, magna, qua 
tecum connexus sum, benevolentia, hacque coactus non potui, quin 
tuis jussis obtemperans (gravis licet obstaret Talmud & Rab Alphes 
et opera & impensa) Salamonis Proverbia, Canticum Canticorum & 
Ecclesiasten in enchiridion simul (ut jussisti) noviter cum accentibus 
excudenduum curarem. Nam quid tuum arduum, quidve tam operosum 

[166] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



admiration for that splendid protagonist of in- 
tellectual liberty, whose defense of the Talmud 
had excited the admiration of all lovers of learning. 
"Now (the Torah) is saved for the second time by 
Reuchlin," writes the scholarly Cardinal Egidio 
of Viterbo "for in this cause of yours for which we 
are laboring during the dangerous heat of the 
summer, we know that we are defending not you 
but the law, not the Talmud but the Church, that 
we are not serving Reuchlin but that Reuchlin 
is serving and defending us."* 

mihi potest objici, quod, te jubente herculea audacia non aggredior, 
nee clam me est, quam mihi sit & tutum & utile, tuis justissimis petitioni- 
bus satisfacere. Quod igitur a me per literas petiisti (quamvis adhunc 
usque diem distulerim) nunc ad te missum tanto libentius accipies, 
quanto me fateor id ardentius exegisse. Quis nunc mihi (ut hie locus 
erat) maximas et plurimas laudes satis commemoret, quae tibi proeul 
dubio debentur, sed ingenii mei imbecillitate non exsolvuntur; exaetum 
autem putetur, quod, si possem, libenter darem. Tu enim (taceo 
caetera) pro sacrae linguae instauratione quid non fecisti ut non im- 
merito alter ejus pater sis appelandus. Vale. 

Yen. 11 Kal. Febr. 1522. Wolf B. H. 4: 143. 

* Data hominibus "Torah baesch" doctrina igne Sinaitieo, erepta 
primo nobis est a deo ex igne, cum Abraham exigue servatum esse 
volunt. Nunc seeundo a Reuchlin servata est ex igne, cum libri illi 
servati sunt, quibus stantibus lex panditur et lucem capit, intereuntibus 
autem tenebris aeternae noctis offunditur. Denique in hoc judicio tuo, 
ubi hac aestate periculoso aestu laboravimus, non te, sed legem, non 
Thalmud, sed ecclesiam, non Reuchlin per nos, sed nos per Reuchlin 
servatos et defenses intelligimus. 

From letter of Reuchlin in 1516, cited by Graetz 9 : 155 note 1. 

It was Reuchlin who by his Rudimenta Linguae Hebraicae (1506) 
the first book by a Christian writer to interest Christians in Hebrew 
drew Hebrew into the larger circle of the Humanities and gave it a 
place beside the classics; Bacher "Hebr. Sprachwissenschaft" 103. 
See also Gubernatis "Materiaux etc." 32. 

Reuchlin used the Bomberg Bible of 1517 for his lectures at Tubinr 
gen. Z. H. B. 10 : 80, note. 



[167: 



CHAPTER VIII. 

DANIEL BOMBERG (1523-1536). 

Bomber g's Editors — The Eulogy of Abraham de Balmes 
— Bomberg's Struggle for Renewal of License — Oppo- 
sition of Marino Sanuto — Bomberg's Enormous Losses — 
Bomberg and Soncino — The Home of the Venetian Printers 
— Scenes from the Press Rooms — Cornelio Adelkind — The 
Qualifications of the Early Printers — Eulogies of Bomberg — 
Elijah Levita and Cardinal Egidio of Viterbo — Did Cornelio 
Adelkind Apostatize — The Year of the Plague, Its Effect. 

THE editor of the Talmud was the learned 
Rabbi Hiyya Meir ben David for many 
years Judge of the Jewish Court at Venice. With 
almost incredible industry he corrected the proofs 
of the Talmud and all of the commentaries after 
comparison with manuscripts and the printed 
texts of Soncino.* And not only the Talmud but 
also the other great books published by Bomberg 
at this time, the Responsa of R. Israel Isserleim; 
of Joseph Kolon; of R. Solomon b. Adret; (an 
immense mass of Jewish "Case Law",) the great 
code of Alfasi, itself an enormous task, besides 
smaller works.f were edited and corrected by this 
indefatigable scholar. % Meanwhile Felice da 

* Gerson Soncino complained that the Venetian printers reprinted 
his texts. This charge is only partly true. See Soncino's introduction 
to Sefer Miklol, Constantinople, 1S33. 

tRabb. "Maamar", p. 36. 

X After his work was done he left Venice in 1522 and became Rabbi 
at Lepanto. Rabb. "Maamar" p. Zi note 41; see also Jew. Enc. 
6 : 432 and Nepi and Ghirondi "Toledot Gedole Israel" p. 57. 

[168] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



Prato left for Rome,* to take up missionary work 
to his former brethren in faith, and for reasons 
unknown he dedined the invitation of Pope Leo 
X to take charge of the Hebrew Press about to be 
estabUshed there under Papal patronage.f It is 
possible that he was so offensive to Elijah Levita 
for whose benefit the Roman press was established 
that Elijah's patron Cardinal Egidio may have 
induced the Pope to intimate to Felice that he was 
expected to decline the invitation. The Hebrew 
press at Rome was established and ended in 1518, 
a year in which Bomberg printed only one small 
book, the Psalms, — apparently devoting himself 
to preparation for the great activity of the fol- 
lowing years. 

With the completion of the Talmud Bomberg 
lost his second editor Rabbi Hiyyah Meir b. 
David who left Venice for the East. He still had 
as printers the Adelkind family, of whom Cornelio 
had virtually become his righthand man. But 
new assistants correctors and editors now joined 
his press, Jacob b. Hayyim ibn Adonijah the 
Tunisian, Abraham de Balmes, distinguished phy- 
sician and scholar, Hayyim b. Moses Alton and 
David Pizzighettone. Abraham de Balmes whose 
grammar the "Mikne Abraham" was printed by 
Bomberg shortly after the author's death in 1523, 
was distinguished in many fields, as physician 

*Z. H. B. 10 -.33. 

t Vogelstein and Rieger 2:37. 



[169: 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

to Cardinal Grimani of Venice,* as translator of 
scientific and philosophical works from Hebrew into 
La tin, t and as lecturer at the University of Padua J 
where he attained renown as an Aristotelian. T[ 

In Venice he met Bomberg whose warm interest 
especially by contrast with the coolness with 
which some of his own coreligionists had received 
him, so deeply touched the old scholar that there 
sprang up between them a friendship that lasted 
till De Balmes' death. It is most probable that 
the fine scholars of the type of De Balmes and 
Levita who mingled freely in high Christian circles 
were looked upon with no great favor by some of 
their brethren. "When I came to Venice," says 
de Balmes,** "the congregation of princes and 
magnates, I saw our people engaged in pious con- 
versations, and diligently attending the House of 
Study, but I found no heifer that would be yoked 
with mine for no one sought any knowledge that 
had not already been long expounded. . . . Each 
one thought only of increasing his wealth. . . . 
and I concluded that it was time for me to em- 
brace the bosom of a stranger, to worship at a 
foreign shrine. . . . And behold there came to 
me Daniel Bomberg, a man greatly beloved of 

* He was privileged by Pope Innocent VIII. to practice medicine 
at Naples. Vogelstein and Rieger 2 : 22. 

t Peries "Beitraege", 193. 

J Jew. Enc. 1 : 199 and Graetz 9 : 46 & 215. Graetz's statements 
are somewhat inaccurate. 

H Jost III. 119. 

** Introduction to Mikne Abraham. 

[170] 



03nn i^nv pnpn nso 

fip^ls 3DP ts'sD W3 Pf o':a"j3 opiJBw »rf6c» <|)p»5'i)p oSdp 

Ss bh 13 npii >'5» Dpbn omafi nrra rjftSi roT J rjftwn 

riD'ftp 3"}) 'ran crw pipo rsf>lti »fli3j »5:j) »5p:p 

Mflj vp ipft bp • Dpi5 jnb )T 5jj D'fi TJrScaj nipa 

' panp onosna wpfi o'wftin 'or^rn PDftSra 

t:v»3 1'pDP «' DSPPVf psSpo rtp pflpw 

nrft f pwp 5PP pr "Jani pr»op )bp3j 

»3Dr> urps "jpft'njjp'n u pjis) nsp 

rPTTPSPP'S onuprpBPS 

6 r")j5pwr"5jiprifioM 

ffn mrsp ppw 
DppnrpSppip 

nppfiip 

■»r6 

pnp)tep3 0")36p:j» 

«t3i3fJp:ppjppfi")npM 'CTP! 

Title page of Abranam ae Dalmes' Hetrew Grammar 

Bomberg, Venice, 1523 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

whom glorious things were spoken. . . . He 
was a Christian and he feared his God. . . 
The feet of his father did not stand at the foot of 
Sinai but to him did I turn all my fountains, for 
he was one of those who spend their money freely 
in the service of God, ... to print Bible, 
Mishnah and Decisions beyond all other printers. 
He also studied Hebrew and crowned himself 
therewith and all his deeds shine like the splendor 
of the sky. And when he saw me ... he 
asked me to write a book, a Hebrew grammar. 
. . . And as the nation among whom we were 
exiled think ill of us because there is none of us to 
serve in this sanctuary I determined ... to ob- 
tain the favor of Daniel in the service of my Crea- 
tor." And inspired by the good will and assistance 
of Bomberg, de Balmes wrote his grammar and 
although he died before it was completed, Bomberg 
printed it and subsequently published a Latin trans- 
lation.* Bomberg's strongest editor and corrector 
after the departure of Hiyyah Meir was Jacob b. 
Hayyim ibn Adonijah of Tunis, a victim of perse- 
cution in northern Africa, who found his way into 
Italy and eventually like Felice da Prato found rest 
in the bosom of the Church.t 

In addition to minor works he corrected the 
Jerusalem Talmud (1523) the second edition of the 
Rabbinical Bible (1525) and together with David 
Pizzighettone the Yad Hahazakah (1524). 

* Bacher "Hebraische Sprachwissenschaft" 106; Wunderbar 
"Lit. Bl. des Orient" 7 :2103; De Gubernatis "Materiaux" 4S. 

tGraetz 9:219; Jew. Enc. 7:32; Rabb. "Maamar" p. 37. 

[172] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



And now Bomberg is obliged again to lock 
horns with the power of the authorities. It seems 
that in 1525 his privilege to print expired, where- 
upon he petitioned for a renewal. Notwithstand- 
ing the powerful endorsement of the Chiefs of the 
Council of Ten and an offer of one hundred ducats 
by Bomberg "the motion was put and lost", says 
Marino Sanuto in his Diaries, "and this for the 
second time; and it was well done, and I had a 
good hand in it; for he printed books in Hebrew 
that were against the faith." The next day the 
vote was put again with Bomberg's offer of one 
hundred and fifty ducats and again was lost.* 
Had Sanuto merely recorded his opposition to 
Bomberg without assigning a reason we might more 
easily understand it for he was always in opposi- 
tion. In recording his speeches in the Senate he 
usually begins "lo Marin Sanudo contradixi", and 
his vote against Bomberg might have been set 
down as the natural expression of his constitutional 
inability to allow any proposition to be adopted. 
The reason of Sanuto' s opposition is not to be 
found in his piety, for his library, the most won- 
derful in Venice, contained all things Christian and 
Heathen and he has recorded the purchase of 
Hebrew books. It was probably inspired by the 
calumnies still circulated by the Men of Darkness 
against the Talmud despite the Pope's permission 
to have it printed. On March 8, 1526 Bomberg's 
offer of three hundred ducats was refused, but on 

* Brown "Venet. Print. Press" 105. 



[173; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

March 27 the religious scruples of the Senate 
were overcome by the princely sum of 500 ducats * 
and Bomberg was voted a renewal of his privilege 
for ten years and a copyright for all his books. 

When it is remembered that twelve ducats were 
paid by the Council of Rimini for one year's rent 
of the dwelling selected for Gerson Soncino, the 
magnitude of the sum of five hundred ducats, 
merely for the right to print, will be better ap- 
preciated. It not only reveals the extent of Bom- 
berg's wealth and zeal, but it explains how his 
great patrimony could be devoured by the raven- 
ous maw of the press. According to Scaliger, 
Bomberg lost three or four millions in gold in his 
printing enterprises; probably an exaggeration, 
yet an indication of the great resources with 
which he was credited and the sums which must 
have gone toward the perfection of the many magni- 
ficent editions which he produced. His Talmud 
editions alone are said to have cost one hundred 
thousand dollars.f 

It was during the year 1525, that the two great 
Hebrew printers were brought face to face in 
Bomberg's shop, though it is more than probable 

* Brown, "Venet. Print. Press," 105. 

t Fumagalli, p. 478, says 300,000 ecus for the Talmud and 3,000,000 
ecus for all the books, Wolf, quoting Scaliger, B. H. 2 : 895 says: "Bom- 
bergue qui etait d'Anvers et duquel le fils est venu a venise, et la a 
tout consume son bien, a si bien imprime les livres Hebreux; les juifs 
corrigeoint et praesidebant a I'imprimerie, II a imprime des livres pour 
plus des 4,000,000 d'or". And again, "Bombergus edidit ter Talmud: 
nunquam semel edidit, quin constiterit 100 millibus coronatorum. 
Edidit libros pro 3 millionibus et sunt correctissimi." 

[174] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



that they had met on other occasions of which we 
have no record. Soncino's bitter criticism of 
Romberg's books after he had been obHged to 
leave Italy and his charges that Romberg had used 
his Talmud texts from which to reprint many of 
the Treatises of the first Venice edition,* show 
traces of that jealousy that seems inevitably to 
affect persons who are dependent on the same 
patron. The law of the printer was the law of the 
jungle, "eat and be eaten." The presses of Conat 
and Abraham b. Hayyim disappear before the 
presses of Soncino, who in turn goes down before 
Romberg. After Romberg's death the press of his 
heirs succumbs to that of Giustiniani who is in 
turn driven out of business by Rragadini. When 
Gerson Soncino came up from the small town of 
Rimini to Romberg's shop at Venice, he must have 
been impressed by the air of cosmopolitan culture 
that prevailed there. f 

In those days the printers' shops were a sort 

* Sacchi p. 35. 

t The printers of Venice lived, for the most part, in the parish 
of San Paternian. Aldo removed to San Paternian from the house he 
first occupied at Sant' Agostino, and the Estimo or assessment rolls of 
the various parishes give us, under San Paternian, a variety of printers' 
names. In the Estimo of 1514 we find Andrea da AxoUa in this parish, 
living in a house belonging to the Doge Nicolo Tron, for which he paid 
sixty ducats a year. From the same source we learn that Lazzaro 
de Soardi stampador et compagni also rented a house in San Paternian, 
the property of Alvise Ruzier, for which they paid thirty-one ducats 
a year. But though San Paternian was the great centre of the printers, 
we find them scattered all over the town, at Sant' Angelo, at San Stin, 
at SS. Apostoli, at'San Lio, at San Giacomo dall' Orio, and very many 
in the parish of Santa Maria Formosa. Brown "Venet Print. Press" 
100, 101. 

[175] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

of clearing house for the intelHgent public opinion 
of the time, the meeting places for the scholars and 
the lounging places for the elegants. Here con- 
gregated painters craftsmen merchants travelers, 
all who were interested in the things of the intellect, 
and what man of wealth or station in the Venice 
of the days of the Doges Loredano, Grimani and 
Gritti was not interested in those things that give 
zest and new meaning to life? We may easily 
picture the scene in Bomberg's press room, busy 
with workmen of half a dozen nationalities, typical 
of the cosmopolitan character of Venice and the 
universality of the press. As the press is un- 
screwed, a skillful hand pulls the sheet and passes 
it still moist under the eye of the critical foreman 
of the shop, Cornelio the son of Baru'h Adelkind 
late of Padua. Scholars and noblemen crowd 
around, looking over his shoulder to inspect some 
new typographical effect and express their criti- 
cism or admiration in the lively and spirited man- 
ner of the Venetian. In one corner a group of 
grave scholars is handling some books and discuss- 
ing fine points of scholarship, in another, Moses 
del Castellazo, illustrator of the Bible * is discuss- 
ing wood engraving with some dilettanti. Corn- 
elio turns from group to group, devoting himself 
principally'to the practical work of the shop, for he is 
a little beyond his depthln the very learned talk of 
the scholars. Among them all moves the master of 
the shop, the stately Bomberg, in broidered robe 

* R. E. J. 22: 290; Brown p. 103. 
[176] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



and high cap, with the dignity of the successful 
man and the urbanity of the cosmopoHte. In this 
company are found some who have forced their 
way into the company of their betters in order to 
shine by reflected light. One of these was the 
apostate who challenged Soncino to write Hebrew 
verses and who was so fiercely abused by that in- 
dignant craftsman.* 

In some respects, the contrast between Daniel 
Bomberg and Gerson Soncino is striking; Bom- 
berg the Christian permanently established in rich 
Venice, printing splendid books for Jewish readers, 

* This fellow was probably one of that class who so annoyed and 
embittered Aldo Manuzio, and compelled him to take somewhat drastic 
means to protect himself. In 1S14, a year before his death, Aldo 
wrote a letter to a friend in which he says: "I am hampered in my 
work by a thousand interruptions. . . . Nearly every hour comes a 
letter from some scholar, and if I undertook to reply to them all I 
should be obliged to devote day and night to scribbling. Then through 
the day come calls from all kinds of visitors. Some desire merely to 
give a word of greeting, others want to know what there is new, while 
the greater number come to my office because they happen to have 
nothing else to do. 'Let us look in upon Aldo,' they say to each other. 
Then they loaf in and sit and chatter to no purpose. Even these 
people who have no business are not so bad as those who have a poem 
to offer or something in prose (usually very prosy, indeed) which they 
wish to see printed with the name of Aldo. These interruptions are 
now becoming too serious for me and I must take steps to lessen them. 
Many letters I simply leave unanswered, while to others I send very 
brief replies; and as I do this not from pride, nor from discourtesy, 
but simply in order to be able to go on with my task of printing good 
books, it must not be taken hardly. As a warning to the heedless 
visitors I have now put up a big notice on the door of my office to the 
following effect: 'Whoever thou art, thou art earnestly requested by 
Aldo to state thy business briefly and to take thy departure promptly. 
In this way thou mayest be of service even as was Hercules to the 
weary Atlas. For this is a place of work for all who may enter.'" 
Putnam 1 :437. 



[177] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Gerson the wandering Jew laboring now with suc- 
cess now with failure with so paltry a clientele that, 
to get a living, he was obliged to turn to the publi- 
cation of Latin and Italian books. The remark of 
Abraham de Balmes, that the Christian Bomberg 
is to be preferred to pious Jews, who allow their 
industrious co-religionists to die of starvation, 
was perhaps justified by conditions existing in 
Venice, although when we contemplate the Jews 
locked up in their Ghetto we may pardon their 
remissness in patronizing the finer arts. The op- 
pressed persecuted and plundered Jews in the 
territories through which Gerson had wandered, 
may certainly be pardoned for their neglect of 
their distinguished co-religionist. 

About the time that Bomberg was printing his 
first Rabbinical Bible Gerson Soncino at Ortona- 
by-the-Sea published the book of Galatinus on the 
"Mystery of Catholic truth." We may not 
question the Judaism of Gerson nor the Catholi- 
cism of Bomberg, for their publication of books 
of an alien faith merely illustrates the amenities 
of literary taste and the catholicity of intellectual 
interest, which, in the higher circles of a reawak- 
ened society, broke down the barriers of century 
old ecclesiastical restrictions. Perhaps, however, 
there is some significance in the fact that although 
the "Mystery of Catholic truth" printed by the 
Jew has sunk into absolute oblivion, the rabbinical 
Bible printed by the Christian is still used, not 
only among Jews, but, more and more, among 

[178] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



scholarly non-Jews for whom the literature of the 
past two thousand years of Judaism is gradually 
being unsealed. These two men share the highest 
place in the history of Hebrew typography. Al- 
though in the number and importance of his publi- 
cations Bomberg stands first, Soncino's career ex- 
tended over a longer period and when Bomberg's 
circumstances are contrasted with Soncino's it is 
seen that the difference in the output of their 
presses does not really represent any substantial 
difference in their importance.* 

* The following synopsis of their presses does not pretend to be 
entirely accurate but it represents approximately the relative output 
of the two presses. 
CLASSES OF HEBREW BOOKS. NO. OF EDITIONS. 

SONCINO. BOMBERG. 

Palestinian Talmud none 1 

Rabbinical Bible " 3 

Code of Alfasi " 1 

Mishnah " 1 & part of 2nd ed. 

Responsa & Novellae " 10 

Khozari 1 none 

Ikkarim 2 

Kolbo 1 

Aderet Eliyahu 

(the Talmud of the Karaites) .. . 1 

Code of Maimonides (Yad) 1 1 

Code of Moses of Coucy (Semag) . 1 2 

Code of Jacob ben Asher (Turim) 2 1 

Babylonian Talmud part of 1st ed. 2 & part of 3rd ed. 

Midrashim 1 6 

Bible (complete) 3 4 

Bible (parts) 7 25 

Biblical commentaries 7 8 

Prayer Books & Books of Devotion 13 12 

Grammars 7 11 

Dictionaries & Concordances 2 4 

Rabbinical, philosophical, ethical, 

etc 13 IS 

[179] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

The Bomberg press since its establishment had 
employed the family of Adelkind, father, sons and 
grandsons, another family of craftsmen who under 
different circumstances might have established a 
famous press like that of the Soncinati. Most 
prominent among the clan of Adelkind was Cor- 
nelio the friend and associate rather than the sub- 
ordinate of the master, in whose press room he 
served for upwards of three decades. So great 
was his merit as a printer that Bomberg permitted 
their names to be associated on the title page of many 
a book, and in some of them even allowed Cornelio's 
to appear alone; witness the following colophon 
to an edition of the "Choice of Pearls" of Ibn 
Gabirol issued from the press of Bomberg in 1547: 

And the work was finished on the eve of Sabbath, in 

the month Shebat, in the year 307, in the great 

city of Venice which is under the rule of 

the Signoria, may God increase their 

glory, and in the first year of 

the principate of Francesco 

Donato, by the hands 

of Cornelio Adelkind. 

Cornelio's father Baru'h the Levite of Padua* 
his son Danielf and his brother, whose name is 
unknown but who is one of "the brothers of the 
seed of Israel the sons of Baruh" % were his some- 

* See Psalms published 1S24. 
t He printed Job and Daniel in 1527. 

t Mentioned in the colophon of the Responsa of Joseph Kolon 
published 1519. 

[180] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



time associates at the press, but beyond a few 
facts concerning their career as printers little is 
known of them. The very name Adelkind (noble 
kin), descriptive Hke all ancient names, indicates 
the standing of a family that was well known and 
honored in Germany for several centuries. An 
Adelkind had given up his life for the ' Sanctification 

vAarvmwnnSnanoanfi man nutc 



Tide page of " Investigation of tke World " 
Adelk£nd, Venice. 1546 

of the Name ' at Nurenberg;* another had recited 
the Shema on the rack at Weissensee.f and Baru'h 
Adelkind the father of Cornelio, was among those 
who fled from Germany to seek an asylum in the 
cities of the plain of Northern Italy. From Padua 
the printers came into Venice in the days of Aldo 
Manuzio's greatest fame, and may have been 

*Z. H. B. 10 :3S note. 
t Jew. Enc. 1 : 189. 

[181] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

among the many craftsmen whom the numerous 
presses of Aldo employed. After the death of his 
father, CorneHo continued at the press of Bomberg, 
and under his critical eye his son Daniel served his 
apprenticeship. In after years, Daniel in ap- 
preciation of his debt to his father dedicated to 
him one of his publications, praying him to accept 
it as the gift of a devoted son. 

Perhaps the familiar figure of our American 
printer, Benjamin Franklin, may serve as an ex- 
emplar of the printers of the old school. They 
were not mere pressmen adept in the mechanical 
details of their business; they were readers of the 
books they printed and kept up a lively inter- 
course with the scholars who produced them. 
Knowledge then was not as diversified as it is 
today and modern specialization had not yet made 
it impossible for the scholar to know everything. 
Hence, the printers acquired that information and 
experience which enabled them to render a good 
account of themselves in argument and discussion 
with trained scholars. 

Cornelio, indeed, was enough of a scholar to 
arrange the vocalization of Elijah Levita's "Har- 
kabah", and to edit and arrange the text of the 
"Midrash Tanhuma." This was the man to 
whom the work of Bomberg's press owes much of 
that excellence, which gained for it the admira- 
tion of contemporaries and established it as a 
model for later craftsmen. About the year 1527* 

* See treatise Shekalim printed by David son of Daniel Bomberg. 
[182] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



Bomberg's son David began his work at the press 
of his father, afterwards to become his partner and 
to be among those who inherited his press. It 
seems to have escaped bibliographers that there 
was more than one Bomberg although Guillaume 
le Be* speaks of "des Bombergues" and Cornelio 
Adelkindf of "Li nostri siniori bombergi". The 
fact that Daniel Bomberg as well as his son David 
had Biblical Hebrew names and that they printed 
only Hebrew books may well have been the cause 
of the belief in their Jewish origin and it gave 
point to the emphatic statement of Joseph Ha- 
cohen that in them "there was no drop of Jewish 
blood."J 

The eulogy of Abraham de Balmes Tf the many 
expressions of devotion and admiration of Elijah 
Levita may be taken to be the tributes of those 
who enjoyed his favor, and therefore perhaps open 
to the suspicion of friendly exaggeration. But the 
words of Joseph Hacohen who was in no way con- 
nected with Bomberg or beholden to him leave no 
room for doubt of the justness of the tribute of his 
friends. Says Joseph:** 

"In this year (1513) Daniel Bomberg, of Ant- 
werp, began to print, and he brought forth from 
darkness unto light many books in the holy tongue. 
Constantly there went in and out of his house many 

* Omont p. 6. 

t In his letter to Masio, Pedes "Beitraige" p. 209; see p. 209. 

t See p. 184. 

ISeep. 170-172. 

** In his Chronicles of the Kings of France & Turkey. 



[183] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

learned men and he never withdrew his hand from 
giving unto all in accordance with their demands 
and to the extent of the means with which God 
had endowed him. The said Daniel was born a 
Christian; neither in his parents nor in his fore- 
bears was there a drop of Jewish blood." 

Between the years 1526 and 1531 the principal 
work of the shop was the production of the second 
edition of the Babylonian Talmud some portions 
of which were printed at Adelkind's expense.* 
The force at Bomberg's command was strengthened 
by the accession of Elijah Levita who had been 
driven from Rome by the terror of the year 1527 
when n the sack of the city by the soldiers of the 
Constable de Bourbon he lost all his property, his 
books and his manuscripts and with his family 
snatched from death escaped to Venice to earn 
his bread as a corrector at Bomberg's press and 
a teacher of Hebrew to many Christian dignitaries. 
His great reputation had made him the friend and 
teacher of many of the eminent Christian Hebra- 
ists of his time and had led him to the palace of Car- 
dinal Egidio at Rome where he dwelt for ten years. 
For this he had to defend himself against co- 
religionists who charged him with apostasy, and 
in the Preface of his Massoret Hamassoret he 
says: 

"Now, I swear by my Creator that a certain 
Christian, (Cardinal Egidio of Viterbo) encouraged 
me and brought me thus far. He was my pupil 

*Rabb. "Maamar" 41. 

[184] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



for ten years uninterruptedly. I resided at his 
house and instructed him, for which there was a 
great outcry against me, and it was not considered 
right of me, and several of the Rabbis would not 
countenance me and pronounced woe to my soul 
because I taught the law to a Christian, owing to 
the interpretation assigned to the words "And as 
for my judgments, they (the Gentiles) are not to 
know them" (Psalm 147, Verse 20). When the 
Prince, (The Cardinal) heard my statement, he 
came to me and kissed me with the kisses of his 
mouth saying 'Blessed be the God of the Universe 
who has brought thee hither. Now, abide with me 
and be my teacher, and I shall be to thee as a 
father, and shall support thee and thy house, and 
give thee thy corn and thy wine and thy olives 
and fill thy purse, and bear all thy wants.' Thus 
we took sweet counsel together, iron sharpening 
iron. I imparted my spirit to him and learned 
from him excellent and valuable things, which are 
in accordance with truth." * The apostasy of 
Cornelio Adelkind is almost assumed by no less a 

* From the introduction to Ginsburg's edition, page 96 cited by 
Abraham's Jewish life in Middle Ages, 423. 

In his practice to teach the law to Christians, he had the authority 
of Rabbi Moses Botarel who answered the charge of having taught 
Cabbalah to a Christian scholar named Maestro Juan, on the ground 
that his friend Maestro Juan was so distinguished a scholar that he 
was worthy of being inducted into the most mysterious realms of the 
so-called sacred Cabbalistic lore, and in his introduction to the Book 
of the Creation, Botarel cites the rabbinical doctrine that a Gentile 
who engages in the study of Torah is like unto a high priest. 

See also Elia Menahem Halfan on Jews teaching Hebrew to 
non-Jews. J. Q. R. 9 : 500. 

1185 1 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

scholar than Steinschneider who considering the 
phrase "brothers of the seed of Israel" used of the 
sons of Baruh Adelkind together with the word of 
Cornelio himself "Israel was my name and as 
Cornelio I will be remembered",* says that is 
"almost an inducement to believe that Cornelio 
was an apostate who considered himself specially 
qualified for his work by his Jewish descent, "f 
The fact that at least three distinguished apos- 
tates, Felice da Prato, Jacob b. Hayyim and 
Isaiah Parnas served at Bomberg's press strength- 
ens the suggestion. It is denied however by Rab- 
binoviczj and to his argument may be added the 
internal evidence of an introduction to a Judaeo 

* See Cornelio's epigraph of Petah Debarai 1S46. 

t Ersch & Gruber 44 note 56. 

J "Maamar," p. 34, note 43, where his argument is that we have 
no right to presume that he was an apostate for he was the manager 
of Bomberg's press until 1549, and then worked at the press of Giustiniani 
where he printed the Talmud. How could an apostate have been taken 
for this work. But if it be said that Bomberg and Giustiniani being 
Christians would not be particular about this, we must note that 
Joshua Boaz printed the Talmud at Sabbioneta in the house of the 
pious R. Tobia Foa and sent for Cornelio to manage it. It is to be 
presumed that these men would not use an apostate for this purpose, 
although the apostate Vittorio Eliano corrected at the press of Cremona. 
The printer there was a Christian. (It is not unlikely that Conti was 
a Jew). After 1554 the printers were afraid of the apostates and took 
them into their service, to prevent them making trouble. In most 
of the books up to 1554 Cornelio signs "Cornelio of the house of Levi." 
If he had been an apostate why should he continue to say "of the house 
of Levi." In colophon of Bahya 1546, he says "Blessed be God who 
has not forgotten his mercy unto his servant and has permitted us to 
finish this holy commentary and we raise our eyes and hands to Heaven 
and pray unto the Rock to complete, etc." These pious words do not 
indicate apostasy. 

[186] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



German edition of the Psalms translated by 
Elijah Levita and published by Cornelio and Meir 
Parenzo in 1545: — 

Cornelio Adelkind writes this to the pious young 
women and to men who have not had time to 
study : — 

During my youth I devoted all my energies to 
helping to print many great and precious books, 
as may be seen in all books printed at Daniel 
Bomberg's press, in which my name is inscribed 
in front and in back. When I grew old I con- 
sidered that I had done nothing for pious young 
women, and for men that had not time to study in 
their youth, but who would like to spend their 
time on Sabbath or Festivals reading appropriate 
matters and not "Titrich of Bern" or the "Schoene 
Glueck." And for the sake of those that want to 
read God's word, for there are few (Jewish) books 
written in German, that are well and correctly 
translated, I went to Rabbi Elijah Levita and 
entered into agreement with him to translate 
several books for me and first of all the Psalms 
according to rules of grammar. And soon God 
willing I shall print Proverbs and Job and Daniel 
well translated. And if God lets me live yet 
awhile I shall make it easily possible for young and 
old to know what is written in the Bible, which is 
now, alas for our sins!, better known to others 
than to ourselves. Therefore I beg you dear pious 
young women and men buy the Psalms cheerfully 

[187] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

and kindly and give us money that we may soon 
begin to print Proverbs. Amen. 
This we beg of you, your servants 

Cornelio and Meir Parenzc* 

There is nothing in this introduction to indicate 
that CorneHo was anything else than a very pious 
Jew Hke his associates Elijah Levita and Meir 
Parenzo. But after all the arguments against his 
apostasy we are confronted by a piece of evidence 
which while not necessarily conclusive is strongly 
persuasive. Guillaume le Be a young French en- 

* Epigraph of Elijah Levita's Jiidisch Deutsch translation of Psalms 
(1S45). Cornelio Adelkind schreibt das den vrumen Bachuros und den 
Baalebatim die da nit haben zeit gehat zu lemen: 

In meiner jugent hab ich vil Koestliche un' grose Seforim helfen 
drueken, un' Hon al meinen vlais druf gelegt, as man wol mag sehn 
in ale Seforim, die man hot gedruekt in Daniel Bombergs drukrei, da 
ich bin inen gechasmet vornen und hinten. Izunder as ich bin in 
die elter kumen, da hon ich mir gedocht, wie ich nichs hab gemacht 
vor die vrumen Bachuros un' vor itliche Baalebatim die da nit haben 
zeit gehat zu lemen in irer jugent, noch denochter wolten sie gern ire 
zeit vertreiben an am Shabbos oder am Jomtov mit leien goetliche 
Shemuos un' nit von Titrich von Bern oder von der Schoenen Glueck. 
Un' den selbigen zu lib, die da gern wolten leien von gots wort, un' 
doch vint man wenig Seforim in teutscher sproch geschriben die da 
wol un' recht geteutscht sein, bin ich gangen zu Reb' Elia Bochur, 
un hon mich rait im vertragen er soil mir itliche Seforim teutschen 
un' zum ersten das Tehillim noch dem Dikduk. Un' bald wils got 
so wil ich drueken das Mishle un' lyov un' Doniel wol geteutscht. 
Un' lost mich got noch eine zeit leben, so wil ich machen, das kleine 
und grosse wern moegen gerinklich wissen was im Esrim vearba stet 
geschriben, daz izunder baavonos iderman weiss men dervon wen mir. 
Dorum bit ich euch libe vrume Bachuros un' Baalebatim Kaft vroe- 
lich un' mit gutem herzen von den Tehillim un' gebt uns gelt das 
mir moegen bald anheben Mishle zu drueken. Omen. 

Das verheisen euch eure diner Cornelio un' Meir Prenz. 

Griinbaum Jiid. Deutsch Chrest. p. SS3. 

[188] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



graver sojourning in Venice 1546-48 and again in 
1556 cut Hebrew types for Marc Antonio Giusti- 
niani and Meir Parenzo (whom he calls Maz de 
Perense). He made a collection of specimens of 
Hebrew types cut by other engravers among them 
types used in a Hebrew Commentary of "Messer 
Cornelio, Chrestien baptise, correcteur en I'im- 
primerie des Bombergues". There can be no 
doubt of the identity of this Messer Cornelio and 
it justifies the theory that some time after 1545 
he apostatized.* 

After 1527 the press of Bomberg was chiefly 
occupied with the second edition of the Talmud. 
Nothing was printed in 1528 except Talmud and 
Mishnah. In 1529 the Karaite prayer book in 
four volumes for the Crimea Turkey Poland and 
Lithuania, a prayer book according to the German 
rite, Kimhi's Book of Roots and seven Talmudic 

* Steinschneider scents apostasy in these words of Cornelio printed 
in the epigraph of Petah Debarai 1S46: 

And thus was finished the book Petah Debarai 
In the name of the living god my redeemer and rock 
In the year of the creation 306 
On the 29th day of Tishri 
Edited by the Hebrew grammarian 
Elijah the Levite, the lonely man, 
Printed in the house of the master, the Christian 
In Venice the Capital whose standard is a lion, 
Who is now printing Sifra and Sifre 
And may my hand not cease from putting forth fruit 
Israel was my name and as Cornelio I will be remembered. 
One might suppose, Steinschneider argues, that after nearly thirty 
years service in Romberg's shop he would take the fact of Romberg's 
Christianity for granted. Again why "Israel was my name,'' unless 
he had then definitely abandoned it? 



[189: 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

treatises constituted a substantial output. In 
1530 the plague broke out in Venice,* and al- 
though the press of Bomberg continued fairly 
active a marked decrease is observable in the 
publications. In 1531 the output had dwindled 
to four Talmudic treatises. The years 1532 and 
1533 saw but two books issuing from Bomberg's 
press and there follows a hiatus of three years in 
which they printed nothing. We do not know the 
reason for this cessation of activity, nor how the 
printers occupied themselves in the interim. It 
was not until 1537 that renewed life appears and 
one book a volume of Psalms is issued contem- 
poraneously with the new press law of Venice and 
the beginning of the press of the Silkweavers of 
Bologna. 

* Serapeum 18S1 p. 63. "All infectious diseases were at that time, 
and indeed till much later, classed together under the one name of the 
Plague, while the common people called them simply the death. The 
misery consequent on incessant wars, the close packing of the popu- 
lation during prolonged sieges, and the absence of police regulations 
or any attention to cleanliness in the towns, produced very unfavorable 
conditions from a sanitary point of view. Added to this was the danger 
from the constant unguarded intercourse with the East, with the result 
that Italy was never wholly free from infectious diseases smouldering 
in one place or another, and ever ready to burst into flame." Pastor 
5 :6. 



[190] 



CHAPTER IX. 

DANIEL BOMBERG (1537-1549). 

The Venetian Press Laws of 15^7 — Ecclesiastical Cen- 
sorship — Elijah Levita's Grammatical Works — His Dis- 
tinction and Influence — Bamberg's Rival, Giustiniani, and 
the Presses of Dei Farri and Brucioli — Growth of Ecclesiastical 
Influence at Venice — The Laws of 1544-1545 — The Ex- 
ecutors Against Blasphemy — Cornelio Adelkind's Ascendancy 
— Two of His Letters to Andrea Masio — The Last Year of 
the Bomber g Press — His Types and Influence — List of Bom- 
berg Publications. 

IN 1537 the laws of Venice advertise the decUne 
of the Venetian press.* The city in which the 
art had reached its highest perfection now officially 
proclaims the humiliating fact that after seventy 
years of printing the art has sunk to such a low 
level as to disgrace the Republic. The printers 
had cheapened their books until the government 
had to step in with a law that acknowledged in its 
preamble that the printers of Venice, once the best 
in the world, had now become the worst. Foreign 
books came into Venice printed on good paper, 
but Venetian books were printed on such vile 
paper that when one made marginal notes it merely 
resulted in blots, and the Senate was obliged to 
decree that all who obtained copyrights must use 
paper that would not blot, under penalty of one 
hundred ducats, forfeiture of the copyright and 

* For the following on this subject see Brown "Venetian Printing 
Press " pages 76-77. 

[191] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

confiscation of the books which were to be pubHcly 
burned in the Piazza San Marco. Lest there be 
any doubt, the Senate defines itself with minute- 
ness: If five copies out of any edition blot the law 
has been violated; if five leaves of any book blot 
the copy may be counted among the five. Pam- 
phlets and books worth ten soldi or less are not to 
be considered. Another section of the law re- 
enacted the law of 1517 regarding copyright, and 
defined a new book as one that had never been pub- 
lished before; this to defeat the trickery of the 
publishers who secured copyrights on old books 
by making a few corrections alterations or ad- 
ditions. But all this legislation passed over the 
house of Bomberg. Here was no vile paper* nor 
any cheapening of values nor any fictitious claim 
of copyright. In no respect did the general con- 
dition which attacked the Christian press of 
Venice affect the Hebrew press until well on in the 
seventeenth century. Then, too, the cheapening 
process resulted in poorly printed Hebrew books, 
and the inroads of the presses of Holland Germany 
and Bohemia made the cheapening an economic 
necessity. For the rich and cultured patrons, of 
the earlier day had disappeared, their riches swal- 
lowed up by the greedy Church, their culture lost 
under the stress of harrying persecution and daily 
fear of exile; and for the poorer and simple folk 

*The fine paper used in the Bomberg books was used later at 
Mantua as appears by comparison of the quality and water mark an 
anchor in a circle with a star above it. 

[192] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



who needed Hebrew books, the badly printed 
volume was the more welcome because the cheaper 
and more easily obtained. The paper of the six- 
teenth century Hebrew books is yellowed with age 
but still strong and tough. One may make mar- 
ginal notes on the time stained pages, even after 
the lapse of nigh four hundred years, without fear 
of blots. The censors of the Church have inked 
the pages in thousands of volumes and the paper 
has proved more durable than the ink, for the ink 
has faded and the once deleted printed words are 
now again legible, to prove that Dominico lero- 
solomitano, Fra Luigi da Bologna and Giovanni 
Dominico Carretto (three of the most active ex- 
purgators) lived and inked in vain. 

Notwithstanding or perhaps because of the 
competition of the Bolognese press, the house of 
Bomberg showed renewed activity and in 1538 
published nine books. If it be true as reported 
by Scaliger that Bomberg died poor, the two long 
vacations that his press took between 1531 and 
1538 * and again between 1539 and 1544, may be 
explained on the theory that during the interval 
since 1531, during which he had published only 
three books, Bomberg had been selling out his 
accumulated stock and thus acquiring new capital 
to continue his press. 

Among the books of 1538 appeared two new 
books, both by Elijah Levita, the more important 
of which is the "Fettering of Tradition" (Massoret 

* Bomberg was in Antwerp in 1538. Z. H. B. 10 : 34. 



193] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Hamassoret) wherein Elijah, true to the inde- 
pendent spirit that led him to dwell in the palace 
of a priest and teach Cabbalah to Christians, 
overthrows the generally accepted orthodox Jewish 
and Christian belief that the vowel points are as 
old as the Hebrew letters. He proves his theory 
that they are not older than the fifth century of 
the Christian era, and the passage containing his 
statement is marked by a hand on the margin 
pointing to the text, "for," says he, in his intro- 
duction, "in every place in this book in which I 
have stated something new or any matter in which 
no one has preceded me," a nice distinction such 
as one might expect from a careful scholar, "you 
will find the image of a hand on the margin of the 
page with the finger pointing as though to say: 
Look at this! Here is a new thing!" The other 
book of Elijah is called "Good Judgment" (Tub 
Taam) and deals with the accents. It was written 
by him after he came to rest in Venice and in 
fulfillment of a vow made during the horrors of 
the sack of Rome in 1527, a vow to which his 
Chaldaic Lexicon (Meturgeman) published by 
him at Isny likewise owes its origin. "Then" 
1527, "came the evil days" he says,* "and the 
city", Rome, "was taken," its inhabitants "de- 
spoiled and driven away, no man seeing what hap- 
pened to him, and behold, I vowed that if God 
granted me life I would write a grammar of the 
Targum 'Chaldaic' as I had written one of the 

* Introduction to Meturgeman. 

[194] 



ti3 rwxwfinoTpnii 

toiDiJm p-vn'ia'narj i"fflN nti nh Vaj n'S pSS lia n»rw3i 
j-nioon »Sj)3 pe»'7o i^Kpiw w p^n in ohvr jha tacassf 
' miDon jun imvf fsinS n3 p 3n3c> naion niosnnn pn 
Vop*T wip© JD^wo©I^'71snp«*7no'7Dyo^^yn1N nnjft ^ 

moo inH wips^mhNn liocaip'iJonv'N w tscntw i^in S^ 

KTpSQTXin^oonms ^nh j'Ntt>nnaniYoprr*»3« 'oinvt 

nvmN]a*7i'NB> ^ jop nnflM^Jp vopnisiinnramooinW 

mooirrtiNnp ■:j3»fli'7nT©'fl3 'mN3ipio3 smhy^won 

i3B>i winN Q»pipiQ lop 3nNvpp nnai lop vop inc^'irn'o 

n^N nyn^JJ '7«o lopHnflbriTV jiop vop^1Jt^p^ jmotpm 

D'aon K*? nnijfln nso 'TC>nioa>'73Nmo3 i^smjncpaDiT 

Nnipa> on oSin in jTj-nps^ w-flpo o» nw3 1S3 myT :n**jy 

siiPsPD W03'.>nbcj3i03pnj:» no^OMOT iS t<"ip pi oiflNSoiH 

Vw oiis6oisTnipjhj»N-»ipD'i330Nni3n3si oy yim'j^^pn 

ff3np3m wpnpTon nflo*J33 jwo ini3.Nt»j;in pNo^rorr srn 

Kmipa^pnioimp arowpiioihw-p •jiS'piHiNTptti 

Ti^TSTpo np'ym vis? in nmpa TKht>^^ pnipffpipTom 

pTn ibiNTp'Nnnpii •Di£)V\3pTi'TrTipo»io>naovP? 

Nino3n3imaipon3nn3yNTiVNnppi'ac>i*7Tnipo©n 

»•« "irlTunao pi»n*j N-jpnnanasnm any iwSa pK-^ 

ni'»'73 e<ino 'j'nmop nyon WpT»nn>3^*7nn3i]t9p "ob* 

iDnDp")»n JN-jp-nmoyNino iniNi naoihiNipoNin 

WT3PnTN30Tynmun3rng'ro>sn -ij-^i 

»aoKan'0'ooi3n3OTn>oyomftn^3no 

nioon»^3»T» »oyaK'?KD3'Ni h'i3niN>imnN*7n'ji'wnno33 

taparfl i-ninnrpoyfionoS*!3npinN30 io3 snenopci 

rninn n'tt>y3i nmnn nn'73-»33 iso^'ji'? pic'iaimoy "v 

fa»30o rrw Nipon^Tflo 'jsa wiflooo w n^i nmn ^nos 

cr>i30 no3 nsnnsOjn WTanonnao tno*? mp ■w>s3 irv 

1461 

From Elijak Levita's Massoret kamassoret 
Bomlierg, Venice, 1338 



4. 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Hebrew." He gave his "Good Judgment" to 
Daniel Romberg "a man greatly beloved * who 
prints the books of revelation, by the hands of 
approved and good workman," f in whose employ 
he had found bread for his family and that friendly 
reception which Bomberg gave to all impecunious 
scholars who sought his aid. Like Abraham de 
Balmes, whose glowing tribute to Bomberg may 
yet be read in the introduction to his Grammar,^ 
Elijah lost no occasion to testify to his gratitude 
to this prince of printers, at whose press he was 
to spend the last two decades of his long and 
picturesque career. For to him Daniel Bomberg 
was "the master printer, a craftsman whose like 
is not known in Israel," "learned in the law of 
God."T[ No need for laws to keep his press up 
to its highest mark, for when Bomberg printed the 
"Book of Roots" of Kimhi, it was worthy of com- 
parison with the early Neapolitan and Soncino 
editions, and indeed surpassed them; Elijah 
Levita's praise that it differs from all other editions 
as the eagle from the fly, that it is perfect without 
fault, is perhaps a little high strung, but he is quite 
within the truth when he recommends it for "the 
beauty of the paper and the ink" and the editorial 
work of the "master corrector Isaiah b. Eleazar 
Farnas." ** Nor did Elijah's friendship with the 

♦Daniel 10 : 11. 
t Epigraph of Tub Taam. 
t Mikne Abraham 1523. 
1[ Epigraph of Sefer Hashorashim 1S29. 

** A brother of the Moses Parnas who at one time assisted at the 
press of Soncino. 

[196] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



Patriarch of Venice Marco Grimani and the 
French Ambassador affect his simplicity or his 
loyalty to Bomberg, and although he was the guest 
of the Patriarch* and through the Ambassador 
was offered by the King of France the Professor- 
ship of Hebrew at the University of Paris, f he 
preferred to remain at Venice, leaving only when 
the Bomberg presses had stopped, (in 1540) and 
returning after they had resumed (in 1544). 

After printing five books in 1539 including the 
"Paths of the Wilderness" Shebile Tohu of Gerar- 
dus Veltuyck, the only anti-Jewish book that 
Bomberg printed, his press suddenly again came 
to a standstill and did not resume until 1543, nor 
did it regain its wonted activity until 1544. The 
cessation of Bomberg' s press prevented Elijah 
from printing his TishbiJ in Venice and he con- 
templated sending it to Bologna to the press of 
the Silkweavers.^f But an invitation from Paulus 
Fagius at Isny in Algau to superintend his press 
induced the heroic old man at the age of seventy 
to leave Venice before his manuscript was quite 
ready, and he finished it while on the road. "If 
there is any error in this book** I hope I may be 
weighed in just scales, for this book is the fruit of 

*R. E. J. 27 :42. 

t Jew. Enc. 8 : 48. 

t "Tishbi contains 712 Hebrew, Chaldaic, Arabic, Greek and Latin 
words not easily found in dictionaries and used in Hebrew and Jewish 
literature; their origin and correct use explained. Printed and trans- 
lated into sacred Latin by Paulus Fagius in Isny in Algau in 1S41." 

f Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 91. 

** Epigraph of Tishbi, Isny 1S41. 



[197: 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

haste. I hurried to come hither and when I left 
my home the work was not finished. Indeed when 
I was on the road, on mountains and hills, in rain 
and snow, I thought of the words and wrote them 
on the tablets of my heart and when I came to the 
inn I opened my traveling bag and took out my 
book and noted the words which God had placed 
in my heart. Here I did nothing because of the 
lack of necessary books. Therefore although I 
know that they are few and valueless, I went over 
them again and gathered them from all places in 
which they were scattered and wrote them down 
under their roots, where they may be found, so 
that he may run that readeth." 

Here at Isny in obedience to the vow of 1527 
he published his Meturgeman* followed by other 
books at Isny and Constance. But the Bavarian 
Alps and Lake Constance had no attraction for 
the old man who in his loneliness longed for his 
home on the Lagoons and for his wife, to'^whom 
he devotes these touching lines at the end of 
Meturgeman : 

Oh my God, to me and my wife show this loving kind- 
ness 

That she be not a widow and I not a widower 

Let us die together . . . and let us be destined to 
awake 

To eternal life together. 

* Meturgeman : Lexicon Chaldaicum authore Eliia Levita quo 
nullum hactenus a quoquam absolutius aeditum est, omnibus He- 
braeae linguae studiosis, imprimis & utile & necessarium. Excusum 
Isnae An. MDXXXXI Mense Augusto cum gratia et privilegio Caesaro 
ad Decennium. 

[198] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



And so in 1544 he returned, never to leave again. 
Conrad Gesner, who was in Venice in 1543, re- 
ported that no one up to that time had printed 
Hebrew there except Bomberg, but that a new 
press was being talked about from which a new 
edition of the Talmud was expected.* This was 
the press of Giustiniani which produced its first 
book in 1545.t At the same time two other He- 
brew presses were in preparation, that of the 




From Astcn's Commentary on tne 

Pentateuck 

Dei Farri, Venice, 1544 



brothers Dei Farri and of Francesco Brucioli. 
Let Bomberg look to it therefore that his press 
remain idle no longer, lest these new men supplant 
him without a struggle. As if in response to this 
stimulus Bomberg begins again in 1543 with an 

* "Venitiis hactenus Hebraica nemo quod sciam praeter Danielem 
Bombergum excudit, nunc autem novam illic officinam extructam 
audio, ex qua Talmud proxime proditurum expectatur." Z. H. B. 
10 : 28. 

t This gives an idea of the preparation required for the establish- 
ment of a new press. 

[199] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

edition of the Pentateuch Megillot and Haftarot, 
serving notice on the new men that he is still in 
the field; and in 1544 he resumes his wonted ac- 
tivity by producing a Bible two Pentateuchs other 
Biblical books and a Mahzor (Spanish rite). 
Some explanation is necessary of the relation of 
the Bombergs to the new presses. There cer- 
tainly was no competition between the Bombergs 
and the Dei Farri and Brucioli. Cornelio Adel- 
kind printed all of the books of the Dei Farri during 
1544, the one year that they published Hebrew 
books, at the same time presiding over the press 
of the Bombergs, and the types used were either 
Bomberg types or clever imitations of them. Per- 
haps the Bombergs had intended to give up their 
press and after selling out in part to the others had 
then changed their plans and resumed work them- 
selves. Perhaps they had joined with the new 
men in some partnership relation, seeing that they 
could not prevent their obtaining a license to print 
Hebrew, and had thus mitigated the severity of 
their competition. Whether this be so or not, it 
seems that the competition of Giustiniani finally 
overthrew Bomberg, if the testimony of Alvise 
Bragadini is to be believed, when he says of 
Giustiniani "This was his method with the Bom- 
bergs. He planned to force them to stop printing, 
to the damage of the Jews; for their work was 
excellent and when they stopped, the good books 
stopped and books became dearer."* Giovanni 

* Perles "Beitrage" 230. 

[200] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



)the 



Dei Farri and Brother were a well known firm of 
printers at Venice.* With the help of the master 
printer Cornelio Adelkind, who was also cor- 
rector and compositor,! they printed ten books 
in one year,J and then suddenly stopped further 
publication. Among the printers employed at 
the Dei Farri press may be named Judah ben 
Isaac Halevi of Frankfurt and Yehiel ben Yeku- 
tiel Ha Cohen, scholars, type founders and press 
builders^ who probably helped to establish this 
press as well as that of Giustiniani.** Francesco 

* One of them was probably the father of Pietro Farri, who printed 
at Venice, Fano, Sinigaglia and Jesi between 1590 and 1612. Fuma- 
galli, p. 120. 

t See Ikkarim & Bahya, Dei Farri 1544. Midrash on Psalms, 
Bomberg 1546. 

t Steinschneider gives the following list: — 

Ikkarim 

Asheri's Commentary on Pentateuch 

Bahya 

Iggerot Rambam 

Ben Sira 

Pirke d' Rabbi Eliezer 

Halihot Olam 

Menorat Hamaor 

Sefer Hayashar (Ersch & Gruber 44) 
to which may be added: 

Yosippon. 
1 Rabb. "Maamar" p. 47. 
** It is sometimes difficult to distinguish the several functions of 
the employees of the Hebrew presses. As a rule the printer is known 
as "madfis" or "mehokek"; in later times at the smaller presses he 
was the same as the master of the press, "baal madfis" or the owner 
of the press, "baal hadefus". His name is usually introduced by the 
word "bidfus'' corresponding to the Latin "excudebat" or by the 
words "al yede" equivalent to the Latin "opera" Some masters 
of the press spoke of themselves as "called to the press'', "hukam al 
hadefus". The printing office is usually introduced by the words "be- 
bet,'' "in aedibus", although the latter designation often indicates 

[201] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Brucioli* merely dipped into Hebrew printing ; only 
one Hebrew book appeared at his press.f The Bru- 
cioli family were long suspected of heresy by the 
Church authorities, a suspicion that the publication 
of the "Spirit of Grace" by Francesco Brucioli might 
well confirm, for it was a glossary of philosophical 
terms used by Maimonides and other philosophers, 
and, as is well known, it is under the guise of 
philosophy that heresy makes itself known. J As 

merely the house in which the press was established. At the larger 
presses in addition to the owner there was a foreman or inspector or 
factor, such as Adelkind, of Venice, "nizab al hadefus", also "ben 
meshek", administrator; "neeraan beto", procurator. The proof 
reader or corrector is the "magiha", (cura, studio.) Sometimes 
the factor and the proof reader were the same person. The compositor 
is known as the "'mezaref" and also "mesader". The actual printer 
has no Hebrew technical name and is included in the general word 
"poel" or "omen", ("confectus ab" or "compositus per") workman. 
This also includes the compositors. Christian workmen are frequently 
used as compositors; and it may be noted that the proof readers fre- 
quently complained of the latter on account of the numerous mistakes 
caused by their ignorance of the Hebrew. Jewish converts to Christianity 
and Christian converts to Judaism are not uncommon among the 
workmen at the press. Thus Di Gara at Venice had only Christian 
compositors; on the other hand, Moses of Modena in order to im- 
prove his press at Salonica sent for Christian compositors from Venice; 
two of whom became converts to Judaism. The publisher is the "mebi 
lebet hadefus", he may furnish the cost of publication, in which case 
the work is issued at his "hozaot", "impensis", "sumptibus", or in 
his name "beshem", "nomine" 

See Ersch & Gruber 29; Steinschneider Cat. Bodl. LXH-LXHI; 
Brown "Venet. Print. Press" p. 24. 

* Not Brucello, as Steinschneider has it. Ersch & Gruber 44. 
There is no Brucello printing in Venice according to Cicogna's list of 
printers given by Brown "Venet. Print. Press" Appendix VI. 

t Ruah Hen, 1544. 

} Antonio Brucioli, the brother of Francesco, was one of the fre- 
quenters of the philosophical symposia in the gardens of Rucellai at 
Florence. 

[202] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



if in defiance of his persecutors he published at the 
press of his brother at Venice a Bible translation 
in Tuscan in 1532, two years before Luther's 
German translation appeared. The mere trans- 
lation into the vernacular was damnable, and the 
books swarmed with heresies, that is to say, cor- 
rections of the official Vulgate. The author had 
the temerity to dedicate his book to Francis I of 
France, but the King did not have the courage of 
his convictions and declined to acknowledge the 
dedication, leading the irrepressible Aretino to 
remark that perhaps the King did not consider 
the book sufficiently well translated, — or bound.* 
In due time the outraged Church had its revenge. 
In 1546 Antonio Brucioli was in the prisons of the 
Inquisition and when the fierce bigot Caraflfa as- 
cended the Papal throne as Paul IV, he honored 
Brucioli alone among all Venetian printers by 
placing his name and his publications among those 
condemned in his Index Librorum Prohibitorum 
of 1559. t It was at the time of Brucioli's venture 
into Hebrew typography that the Holy Roman 
Church began to make itself strongly felt in the 
history of the book trade, J through the Inquisition 
haereticae pravitatis. The Venetian Republic 
always maintained a position of independence to- 
wards Rome, but desiring to assist the Church in 

* Michaud "Biog. Univ." sub. tit. "Brucioli." Cambridge Mod- 
ern History 2 : 383. 

t Brown "Venet. Print. Press" 128. 

J For the following account of the Venetian laws of 1S44-4S I 
am indebted to Brown "Venetian Printing Press" pp. 79-80. 



[203] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the suppression of heresy she created the necessary 
machinery of government for that purpose, thus 
maintaining her claim to be the sole ruler in her 
own dominions. The Lutheran heresy and its 
numerous offspring were flourishing and spreading, 
and the successor of St. Peter, face to face with the 
bewildering fact that a doubting generation was 
no longer convinced by the mere statement of his 
God-given power, was very fully occupied in de- 
vising ways and means to retain his ecclesiastical 
supremacy. 

The series of laws of the years 1544-45 by which 
Venice established a censorship of books, resulted 
in the establishment of a new element in the history 
of the Venetian press, the presence of the three 
Savii sopra I'heresia among the administrators in 
charge of books and printing. The first of the 
press laws of this period was the establishment by 
the Council of Ten of the three Rifformatori dello 
Studio di Padova, or University Commissioners, 
who examined all books submitted to the Ten for 
leave to print. This was followed by a law for- 
bidding anyone to print or sell any work without 
first having presented to the Rifformatori dello 
Studio documentary proof of the consent of the 
author or of his nearest heirs. All books printed 
without this consent were to be confiscated and 
immediately burned, and the printer fined one 
ducat for each book and each author injured, and 
imprisoned for one month. Books of this nature 
imported into Venice were to be forfeited and the 

[204] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



importer fined fifty ducats. The Executors against 
Blasphemy, Esecutori contro la Bestemmia, were 
charged, as usual, with the execution of the decree, 
and with them were associated the three Savii 
sopra I'heresia, for the surveillance of the press 
upon the matter of religion. 

Neither the laws of Venice nor the competition of 
Giustiniani affected the activity of the Bomberg 
press, and the number and character of the books 
produced would indicate that the press was quite 
prosperous. Ten books are to be credited to the 
press during 1545 and thirteen during 1546. The 
Dei Farri press ended its career in the same year 
in which it was commenced, but Giustiniani 
printed ten books in 1545 and eight in 1546. The 
Bomberg press was strengthened by the accession 
of Johanan Treves and of Meir Parenzo, the latter 
destined to occupy a place in the House of Braga- 
dini similar to that of Cornelio Adelkind in the 
House of Bomberg. In 1546 the Bomberg press 
issued a novelty in Hebrew bookmaking, a series 
of little grammatical works uniform in size and 
style. Gabriele Giolito had been the pioneer in 
this field with his series called "Collane", neck- 
laces, each necklace composed of anelli, links, and 
gioielli, gems of excursuses in explanation of the 
author's text.* The Bomberg grammatical series 
included works by Elijah Levita, Zedekiah Anau 
and Abraham ibn Ezra and the anonymous Petah 
Debarai, corrected by Elijah Levita. The Harka- 

* Brown "Studies" 2 : 96. 



[205 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

bah, first printed at Rome, was now reprinted 
with vowel points added by Cornelio Adelkind "in 
order to obtain favor of students."* This gram- 
matical series may be said to have closed the 
career of Elijah Levita, poet and grammarian, for 
though he lived for several years it was as a sick 
old man, bereft of his mental powers and suflfering 
from exhausting ailments. Cornelio had widened 
his horizon. He was no longer the mere printer 
but a corrector of the press, who expresses opinions 
on the relative correctness of manuscripts and 
printed texts, f who improves his editions and 
whose improvements are pirated by others who in 
his opinion "do ,not know the difference between 
right and left. "J Withal he never loses his native 
modesty and the sense of his inferiority in scholar- 
ship to the great men whose books he prints and 
with whom his house is in correspondence. We 
are fortunate in having preserved for us several 
letters written by this good craftsman. The 
paucity of contemporaneous records, especially of 
biographical interest, may justify the reproduction 
of these letters in full, as some indication of the 
kind of man Cornelio was. Not that we may do 
more than guess at his individuality, through these 
means, for at best in our judgment of most men, 

* See title page. 

t See colophon of Midrash Shoher Tob, 1546, where he is men- 
tioned as "haomed al hamelakhah vehamesader umagiha otha", 
and expresses the opinion that the old Constantinople edition 's least 
defective. 

t See end of Mahzor, Spanish rite, 1S44. 

[206] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



even contemporaries, we are forced to be content 
with a few general impressions created at some par- 
ticular time under special conditions, although we 
know that a safe judgment can be based only 
upon an omniscience that is vouchsafed to no man, 
and that can be only approximated with the most 
extraordinary advance of all conceivable scientific 
inquiry, method and analysis. Our rough and 
ready method of judgment may serve for certain 
practical purposes, but in the last analysis man 
must ever remain an insoluble mystery, and the 
truest word spoken of him is the word of that 
ancient Proverbialist, "From the Lord are the 
goings of man ; but man — how can he understand 
his own ways?" From the record of the simplest 
daily acts some idea of a man may be gained, for 
in all that he does he makes history; in every- 
thing he says he recites it. And, therefore, it is 
to be regretted that most philosophical historians, 
content with sweeping views of masses of men 
and events, have "only glanced dubiously and 
from afar" at all the intimate details of life in past 
ages which help to throw some glimmer of light 
into the dark corners of history. "History is the 
essence of innumerable biographies." When, 
therefore, in our search for material about our 
printers, we find a document of human interest we 
may be pardoned for giving it a little more than 
ordinary attention. Of Adelkind, two letters have 
been rescued from oblivion, preserved by the care 
of Felix von Oefele, one time Royal Librarian at 



[207; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Munich, and now given to the world by the 
scholarly Dr. Joseph Perles.* These letters, writ- 
ten in a peculiar idiom, in poor Italian betraying 
his German origin, were addressed by Cornelio to 
Andrea Masio. 

Masio was a noted scholar, who after many 
years service as a diplomat had come to Rome for 
the purpose of studying Arabic Hebrew and 
Oriental literatures, with a coterie of scholars who 
had made Rome and Naples the great centres for 
these studies. It was customary for scholars to 
exchange letters, and among the correspondents 
of Masio were Daniel Bomberg the printer f and 
Elijah Levita the grammarian. The Bombergs 
had sent Masio a copy of a new Latin translation 
of Maimonides' "Guide of the Perplexed," and the 
latter in a letter to Elijah had given notice of his 
intention to visit Venice, an event that was hailed 
with delight by the printers. Then, as ever, men 
relied on personal intercourse with great men to 
enrich their minds and inspire them to higher 
efforts. Scholars scattered throughout the world 
were still finding rare and precious manuscripts 
and communicating the results of their studies of 
them in long letters or in literary conversations. 

* "Beitrage" pp. 209-210. 

t As a token of friendship, Bomberg sent Masio a shekel. "Et 
hoc verum Sicli argentei pondus esse, ostendunt vetustissimi Sicli, 
justissima trutina appensi, quorum unum mihi amicitiae gratia olim 
dono dedit vir, ob Hebraicam typographiam et ejus linguae non solum 
studium sed egregiam scientiam atque in primis ob singularem animi 
probitatem et candorem aeterna memoria dignissimus Daniel Bom- 
bergus." Masii Comm. in Josuam 7 : 20 cited by Perles "Beitrage" 
p. 212. 

[208] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



The advent of a great scholar was a matter of 
prime importance, and his opinion was taken with 
a respect that is rare in our more cynical age, 
when most men who have learned to read believe 
that they know as much about things in general 
as is worth knowing and look upon opinions of 
specialists with a certain half-contemptuous good 
humor. What the specialists say may be inter- 
esting but its importance must not be permitted to 
disturb the self satisfied judgment of the man of 
good common sense. 

Let us read the letter of Cornelio to the Mag- 
nifico Messer Andrea Masio, at Rome: — 
"Magnifico Maestro Andrea: 

I saw your letter in the hands of Rabbi Elijah 
the Grammarian * and we spoke of you several 
times. When I heard of your intention of coming 
here to remain for some time in the house of my 
patrons the Bombergs, I was well pleased and both 
Rabbi Elijah and I look forward to your coming 
and hope for admirable things as the result of your 
visit. Our masters, the Bombergs, are sending 
you jthe 'Guide of the Perplexed,' in Latin, for 
your inspection for the purpose of obtaining your 
opinion on the corrections made by the Friar of 
Padua.t As to the translation I think that you 

* The title by which the aged scholar was best known among his 
contemporaries, though among later generations he is known as Elijah 
Bahur, and Elijah Tishbi, from the titles of two of his works. 

t An ignorant monk to whom for some reason this important work 
was entrusted. Perhaps the Church authorities had to be placated 
for reasons that now escape us. Rome was already very active in the 
affairs of Venice and heresy sniffing monks were everywhere in evidence. 

[209] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

will need the 'Guide of the Perplexed' in Hebrew. 
You will find at Rome a Jewish friend of the Bom- 
bergs and particularly of mine named Benjamin 
ben Joseph of Arigniano,* whom Messer Gug- 
lielmof knows well. This Jew will find you the 
'Guide' in Hebrew, and also any other book that 
you may need. I note that you want books of 
the Cabbalah which are easily found here. If you 
come here we will find them for you for copying 
without cost. I am sending you a sample of the 
'Guide' as we think of making it and ask your 
opinion of the text as it stands; do not pay any 
attention to errors for you must know that it is a 
first impression that has not been corrected. 
Pardon me if I have been presumptuous in writing, 
never having seen or addressed you. My business 
is not writing, especially to a man like you; but 
I trust in your goodness to which I shall always 
recommend myself. Remain in good health. 
From Venice May 21, '47. 

Cornelio Adelkind."t 

* He had one of the largest Hebrew libraries of the time and was one 
of the founders of the second Hebrew press at Rome in that very year 
1S47. 

t Masio's teacher of Arabic whom Cornelio met at Romberg's in 
1538. 

t Mag'co M. Andrea. Altre volte ho visto vostre litere i man 
de Rabbi Eliyah Hamedakdek e pur assai volte avemo ragionato dela 
S. V. e a desso che io ho inteso che la V. S. dice venir qua a star alcun 
tempo I casa deli mei padroni bombergi tanto me son pur contento e 
Rabbi Eliyah e mi noi aspeterao lora che veniti e che fatti qualche 
bella cosa laudabil como spero. Li nostri siniori bombergi vi mandano 
el Moreh latino da veder ed intender la vostra opinion circa la corecion 
che a fatto fra paduano e cossi dela translatacio, io credo tanto sol vi 

[210] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



To this letter Masio promptly replied, and Cor- 
nelio's next letter is also preserved for us. 
"Magnifico Messer Andrea: 

For some days past I have had your most ac- 
ceptable (letter) of May 28; I could not reply by 
the first courier because I did not have enough 
time, but it will now be part of my duty to reply 
as well as I can. First, know that I have given 
your dutiful greetings to Rabbi Elijah Levita who 
is anxious to see you before he is gathered to his 
fathers; know that he is very old, ill and failing 
mentally. That you have delayed your coming 
here, and are in doubt about coming at all is painful 
to me, for I had thought that you would bring fine 
fruit. 

Be patient for in your honor and in all things 
pertaining to you I am your good servitor, and 

bisogniasse el Moreh Nebukhim bileshon hakodesh, trovavile li in 
roma ebreo amico deli bombergi e raio in particolare che a nome binianira 
de iosef de ariniano el qual M. Gulielmo lo cogniosce bene, il qual ebreo 
vi trovava il more i ebreo e ancora qualche altro libro che vi bisogniasse; 
io so che seti desideroso de libri de Cabbalah, qui sene trova ben parte, 
si venerite quili troveremo per copiar senza spesa; io vi mando una 
mostra del Moreh in quel mode che pensamo de farlo e direti ancora 
voi la vostra opinion del sesto (testo?) quello che vi pare e non guar- 
dati sol ca (se?) fosse qualche erbri, sapiati che el e la prima stampa 
senza esser corecta; perdonati me se son stato prosumtuoso a. scri- 
vervi e non anco mai vistovi no anche parlato; larte mia non e de saper 
scriver maxime a un tal homo como stati; ma me confido nela vostra 
bonta alaqual sempre me aricomando, stati sano. da vinezia adi 21, 
magio del 47. 

Cornelio Adelkind. 
(Addressed) 

Al Mag'co M. Andrea Masio 
Roma. 

Pedes "Beitrage" p. 209. 



[211] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

whatever you command me, you will always find 
me ready to perform according to my strength. 
As to the Friar of Padua, he is so ignorant of 
Hebrew as hardly to recognize the letters. It will 
be necessary to retranslate the Guide of the Per- 
plexed to do it well. Concerning the Hebrew text 
of the 'Guide' I have four very old manuscripts 
with the explanation of the foreign words, but it 
is necessary in order to do it well and make it useful 
to the world to print it with a commentary. There 
are four commentaries the best of which appears 
to be that of Narboni and I have several times 
written to my Master Daniel * to allow us to 
print it, — the Hebrew with only one commentary; 
but he would not consent, saying that these com- 
mentators have the habit of drawing out (mean- 
ings) not intended by the author, and so I do not 
know what we shall do now.f 

I saw your list of books of Cabbalah; by my 
faith, it is a good one and contains many fine 
things. The books that we have are the follow- 
ing: — The Gate of Foundation, the Gate of Unity, 
the Book of Shining Light, the Book of Creation, 
the Reed, Illumination of the Eyes, Words of 
Pleasantness, Ten Numbers, Images and Secrets 
of the Law and the Secret of Secrets, Numbers,! 

* Bomberg seems to have retired from Venice perhaps to spend 
his last days in his native Antwerp, but still exercised control of his 
business and had to be consulted. 

t In fact he did nothing and the death of Bomberg put an end to 
the entire plan. 

I Not one of them printed but to be found in manuscript in Bom- 
berg's library. 

[212] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



and furthermore there are others here among the 
Jews which can be borrowed for copying. I have 
recommended you to your friend and my Master 
Messer Nicolo Stopio and your Rabbi EHjah 
Levita. My Master! I think I shall not write 
again without begging pardon for my presumption 
being so awkward in writing. My excuse is that 
I am a German and you know well how 'delicate' 
we are in writing* but the will is good. We pray 
God that he give you long life that you may be 
able to do things pleasing to God and the world. 
From Venice June 11, 1547. 

Your Cornelio Adil-Chind."t 

* A phrase wherein Cornelio characterizes the heaviness of his 
countrymen of whom Joshua Soncino said that they are stammerers, 
slow of speech and unable either by word or pen to express the deep 
thoughts of their hearts. Kore Hadorot ed. Cassel, 29 a. 

fMag'co M. Andrea de questi giorni passati io ebe una vostra de 
28 de magic ami molto gratissima, ala qual non poti dar risposta per el 
primo curer per non aver tanto tempo comedo ala qual adesso furo 
parte del mio debito de rispondervi meglio che sapero; e prima sapiati 
che io ho fatto le debite salutacione de parte vostra a Rabbi EHjah 
Levi, el qual vi videria volutiera inante che el vada apatrem; sapiati 
che el e molto vecchio e non sta tropo i Cervello lui Zavaria spessi 
volte. E che ritardivesti la vostra venuta qua e anche stati i dubio de 
venirce certo el mie rinchresce che io pensava che feriste gran frutto 
melefede (?) paciencia la vostra volunta sia et i vro honor e per tutto 
onde sarite vi voglio esser bon servitore e quando me comandovite 
sempre me trovarite pronto ali vostri comandi secondo la mia forza: 
di fra paduano che el sea iniorante de leshon hakodesk lui apena cogniosce 
le leteri ebraiche: el bisogniaria tradur questo Moreh Nebukkim de novo 
afar bene: i quanto al more i leshon hakodesh io vene ho 4 pezi scritti 
amano antigissimi co la dechiaracion deli milat zarot me el bisogniaria 
a voler far bene e utile al mondo stampulo con un comento ; el se trova 
4 comentatori sopra deli quale se apar el meglior el Narboni e piu volte 
ne ho scritto al mio signior daniel che voglia esser contento che Io 
stampamo el ebreo solo con un comento, mai lui non sene contenento 



[213; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

There is but little more to record of the press 
of Bomberg. The last year of its activity was one 
of its most fruitful and ranks with the years 1521, 
1522 and 1523 when the press reached its high 
water mark with the production of thirteen Tal- 
mudic treatises* a new (3d) edition of the 
Rabbinical Bible, Bahya's "Duties of the Heart", 
Gabirol's "Choice of Pearls", a Pentateuch, a 
volume of Penitential Prayers and two volumes 
of the legal works of Rabbi Jacob Weil.f 

During Bomberg's life his types were sought 
for by the printers Dei Farri of Venice, and after 
his death most of his types came into the pos- 
session of Giovanni di Gara, a Venetian printer of 
note, from whose press many fine Hebrew books 

digando che questi coraentatori la tirano alor modo contra el voler del 
autor e cosi non so corao lo faremo ancora. Jo ho visto la vostra poliza 
deli libri de Cabbalah, per mia fe che stati bene e aveti de belle cose. 
Li libri che noi avemo sono questi, Shaar Hayesod, Shaar Hayihud, 
Sefer Habahir, Sefer Yezirah, Hakanah, Meirat Enayim, Imre Shefer, 
Eser Sefirot, Temunot vesitre Torah vegam Sod Razai, Sefirot e poi qui 
sene trova altro fra ebrei che se poderia aver per imprestido per copiar, 
io viho ricomandato al vro amico e mio signior M. nic'o stopio e al 
vostro Rabbi elia levita; signior mio non so che scrivervi altro per ora 
se non pregavi che me perdonati se son presumtuoso ascrivervi essen- 
domi cosi gofo nel scriver, la mia scusa sara che son todesco e voi 
sapetti bene como siamo gentile nel scriver, ma la volunta e bona: 
pregamo dio che vi dia vita longa e che posseti far cossa grata adio 
e al mondo, da Vinezia adi 11 da Gugnio 1S47. 

tutto vostro Cornelio adil chind. 
(Addressed) 

date a. M. Andrea Masio patro honor'do in Roma. 

Perles "Beitraege" 210. 

*Rabb. "Maamar" 48. 

t Responsa and Shehitot ubedikot. These are dated 1S49 all of 
the others 1548. 

[214] 




Title page of Pesikta Zutarta 
Bomber^, Venice, 1546 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

were issued. In Antwerp, where Bomberg was 
born his fame was preserved through Christopher 
Plantin, whose printing office flourished for three 
hundred years, and whose Hebrew types, the 
"types and letters of Bomberghe" with which his 
"Bomberg" Bibles were printed, may now be seen 
in the Musee Plantin established by a grateful 
city in honor of his memory. Indeed, many a 
poor German printer was guilty of the pious 
fraud of stating on his title page that his books 
were printed with "Venetian types", a phrase that 
through the centuries testifies to the one-time 
fame of Daniel Bomberg. 

Daniel Bomberg died in 1549* or ISSOf and 
for his epitaph may be taken the words of the 
great bibliographer Wolf J 

Daniel Bomberg 

For the space of nearly forty years 

First among all the craftsmen of his time 

In his many editions of Hebrew and Rabbinical 

works. 
In the accuracy of their revision, in their beauty 

of type and strength of paper. 

Rewarded by Fame not less in Hebrew than Aldo 

in Greek.*! 

* Ersch & Gruber 43. 

t Fumagalli 478. 

JB.H. 4:449. 

If Daniel Bombergus, Antwerpianus, multis Hebraeorum Rabbi- 
nicorumque voluminum editionibus, earundem accurata correctione, 
eleganti typorum forma, nitore solidae chartae purissimo, per annorum 
fere quadraginta spatium omnium iis temporibus artificum princeps; 
nee minus famae in Hebraicis, quam Aldus in Graecis, consecutus. 

[216] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



We, who know the work of Gerson Soncino, 
will always accord him equal honor with the 
famous Christian printer, but the world that 
knew Bomberg of Venice forgot the Jew, buried 
in far ofif Salonica. 

BOOKS PRINTED BY DANIEL BOMBERG.* 

1516 Pentateuch, Megillot & Haftarot 

1517-18 Mikraot Gedolot (Great Rabbinical 
Bible) 

Bible 

Pentateuch & Megillot 

1518 Psalms 

1519 Commentary on Rashi by Isserlein 
Pesukim uketubim by Isserlein 
Likute Hapardes 

Terumat Hadeshen 
Responsa of Joseph Kolon 
Prayers (Roman rite) 
Mahzor (Spanish rite) 
Responsa of Solomon b. Adret 
Decisions of the Gaon of Liwa 
Talmud BabU Pessahim 

1520 " " Berakhot 

" Shabbat 

" Yoma 

" Kiddushin 

" Sota 

* See De Rossi "Ann. 1501-1540"; Schwab "les incunables &c." 
article " Bomberg " in Jew. Enc; Freimann in Z. H. B. 10; 79. 

[2171 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1520 Talmud Babli Synhedrin 

" Makkot 
" AbodaZara 
" Niddah 
After 1520 Mahzor Romaniya 

1521 Talmud Babli Bezah 

Hagigah 
Moed Katon 
Rosh Hashanah 
Sukkah 
Taanit 
Megillah 
Ketubot 
Gittin 

Baba Kamma 
Baba Mezia 
Baba Bathra 
Shebuot 
Horayot 
Hullin 

Mishnah Abot 

Eduyot 
" Zeraim 
Talmud Yerushalmi Shekalim 
Bible 
Psalms 

1522 Alfasi 

Sefer Mizvot Gadol 

Turim 

Talmud Babli Erubin 

" Yebamot 



[218] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



1522 Talmud Babli Nedarim 

" " Nazir 

" " Menahot 

" " Temura 

" " Zebahim 

" " Keritut 

" " Bekhorot 

" " Erakhin 

Mishnah Kodashim 

Taharot 
Hilkhot Ketannot 
Mishnah Meila, Kinnim, Middot, Ta- 

mid, Semahot, Kalla, Soferim 
Megillat Setarim 
Pentateuch 

Rashi on Pentateuch and Megillot 
Proverbs, Canticles & Ecclesiastes 
Between 1518 and 
1523 Nachmanides Responsa 

1523 Mikne Abraham 

Talmud Yerushalmi 

Hiddushe Hullin, Berakhot, Gittin & 

Baba Batra 
Mishnah Taharot 
Talm. Babli Nedarim 
Recanati's commentary on the Penta- 
teuch 
Pentateuch with Megillot & Hoftarot 
Sefer Haterumah 
Sefer Hanokh 
Zeror Hamor 

[2191 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

1523 Meir Natib 

Hiddushe Berakhot of Solomon b. Adret 

1524 Yad Hahazakah 
Pentateuch with commentaries 
Mahzor (Spanish rite) 
Psalms 

Proverbs, Canticles & Ecclesiastes 
1255 Mikraot Gedolot 2d ed. 

Darke Hanikkud ve-haneginot 
Pentateuch 

Talm. Babli Pessahim (2d edition of 
Talmud) 

1526 Talm. Babli HulUn 

" Sukkah 

" Gittin 

" Shebuot 
Mishnah Abot 
Bible 
Mahzor (Roman rite) 

1527 Mizrahi's commentary on Rashi 
Pentateuch 

Job and Daniel 
Talmud Babli Horayot 
" Ketubot 
" Yerushalmi Shekalim 

1528 " Babli Bekhorot 

" Erakhin 
" Temurah 
" " Meila, Kinnim, Middot, 

Tamid, Semahot, 

Soferim 

[220] 



DANIEL BOMBERG 



1528 Talmud Babli Erubin 

" Hagigah 
" Yebamot 
" Keritut 
Mishnah Kodashim 
Taharot 
" Zeraim 

1529 Karaite Prayer Book 
Prayers (German rite) 
Shorashim 

Talmud Babli Berakhot 
" Kiddushin 
" Nedarim 
" Nazir 
" Baba Batra 
" Zebahim 
" Menahot 

1530 " " Ketubot 

" Makkot 

" Niddah 

" Shabbat 

" Beza 

" Hilkhot Ketannot 

Seven rules of Asher b. Jehiel 

Mishnah Eduyot 

1531 Talmud Babli Rosh Hashanah 

" Yoma 

" Baba Mezia 

" Baba Kamma 

1532 Arukh 

1533 Pentateuch 



[221] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

1537 Psalms 

1538 Massoret hamassoret 
Tub Taam 

Talmud Babli Baba Kamma 

" Taanit 

" MegiUa 
Psalms 
Proverbs, Canticles, Ecclesiastes, Job & 

Daniel 
Rashi 

1539 Responsa of Benjamin Zeeb 
Mishnah Abot 

Moed Katon 
Talmud Babli Shebuot 
Shebile Tohu 

1543 Pentateuch Megillot & Haftarot 

(several editions) 

1544 Bible ■ 
Pentateuch & Megillot 

Psalms, Job, Daniel 

Pentateuch 

Mahzor (Spanish rite) 

1545 Mizrahi's commentary on Rashi 
Midrash Rabba 

" Tanhuma 
Seder Maamadot 
Psalms (Germ, trans.) 
Mekhilta 
Sifra 
Sifri 
Miklol 

[222] 



DANIEL ROMBERG 



1545 


Shorashim 


1546 


Petah Debarai 




Pirke Eliayahu Halevi 




Shebile Haleket 




Harkabah 




Zahut 




Mozne leshon hakodesh 




Sheiltot 




Pesikta 




Bahya on the Pentateuch 




Arama " " 




Behinat Olam 




Marpe Lashon 




Midrash Shoher Tob 


1547 


Shaare Dura 




Gersonides on the Pentateuch 




Semag 




Hilkhot Ketannot 


1548 


Mikraot Gedolot (3rd ed.) 




Pentateuch Megillot & Haftarot 




Hobot Halebabot 




Selihot 




Mibhar Hapeninim 




Talmud BabH Berakhot 




" Pessahim 




" Yoma 




" MegiUah 




" Aboda Zara 




" Yebamot 




" Taharot 




" Sota 



[223] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1548 Talmud Babli Taanit 

Nedarim 
Nazir 

Baba Kamma 
Eduyot 
Zebahim 
Menahot 
Zeraim 

1549 Responsa of Jacob Weil 
Jacob Weil, Shehitot ubedikot 

Date unknown. Mahzor Minhag Aram Zoba (?) 
Daily Prayers (German rite) 
Pentateuch, Megillot & Targum 
Haftarot 



224' 



CHAPTER X. 

SOME MINOR PRESSES. 

Influence of World Movements on Hebrew Typography — 
Bishop Agostino Giustiniani — The Polyglot Psalter of Genoa 
— Christopher Columbus — Trino — Jacob b. Abigedor of 
Padua — The Canons of St. Ambrose at Milan — The Jewish 
Silkweavers of Bologna — Printing Partnerships — Censorship 
before Publication — The Roman Ghetto — Leo X. — Cardinal 
Egidio of Viterbo — The First Hebrew Book at Rome — Elijah 
Levita — Later Roman Presses — The Church and the Press^ 
The Duke of Parma-^ Antonio Blado. 

A GREAT river sends down its flood to the 
sea; every pool and back water along its 
course feels, however slightly, the great onrush of 
the central current. A great world movement 
sweeps through the highways of society, and the 
humblest man is influenced and affected by it. 
In the history of even so comparatively unim- 
portant a subject as Hebrew typography, the in-, 
fluence of the world movements of the Renaissance 
and the Reformation may be traced. Throughout 
the world non-Jews cultivated Hebrew learning, 
and even established Hebrew presses, and prelates 
and princes, professional scholars and craftsmen, 
sought entrance into the mysteries of the inner 
sanctuary of Hebrew literature. Among Biblical 
books the Psalms and the Prophets appealed most 
strongly to Churchmen. Here and there the proph- 
ets in their ecstasy uttered phrases, whose true 
meaning unknown to the historical criticism of the 

[225] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

time were easily interpreted into prophecies of 
Jesus. Still truer was this of the Psalms, all of 
them lyrical expressions of pure poetry with little 
reference to the historical or personal events that 
gave them birth. As illustrations we may con- 
sider Felice da Prato's translation of the Psalms 
and another edition published at Genoa* by 
Bishop Agostino Giustiniani, in 1516, the year 
when Daniel Bomberg was preparing for his first 
great work the Great Rabbinical Bible, and Gerson 
Soncino was printing the Turim at Fano and enter- 
ing into business relations with the printers of 
Ancona. The Bishop was a member of the 
patrician family of the Giustiniani of Genoa remote 
kinfolk of the equally distinguished Giustiniani of 
Venice, both branches of which gave some of its 
sons to the press, f 

The Bishop was a man of monastic type, who 
sought peace in a Dominican monastery, where he 
devoted himself to the study of Oriental languages, 
but his scholarship and family connection soon 
gained for him a bishopric at Nebbia in Corsica,^ 
where he began his Bible. The book iteslf en- 
titled "Psalterium hebraeum, graecum, arabicum 
et chaldeum cum tribus latinis interpretationibus 
et glossis"^ is interesting as the first of those poly- 

* De Rossi "Ann. 1501-1540" p. 11. 

■j- Marc Antonio Giustiniani became a Hebrew printer at Venice 
in 1545 and Michele Giustiniani founded a press at AvellinO in 1627. 
Fumagalli p. 22. 

t Wolf B. H. 2 : 949. 

f Schwab " les incunables &c." p. 20. 

[226] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



glot editions of the books of the Bible in which 
scholarship displayed itself in producing parallel 
versions of the texts in many languages. It con- 
tains the Hebrew text, the Greek Septuagint, the 
Latin Vulgate, the Chaldaic paraphrase, the 
Arabic translation, a Latin translation of the 
Chaldaic and a collection of notes by the editor. 
No Jew was permitted to participate in the publi- 
cation of this edition of one of the greatest pro- 
ductions of the Hebrew genius, and indeed, al- 
though Hebrew letters were ardently cultivated 
by educated Genoese,* the Doge Ottaviano Fre- 
goso at the very time of the publication of this book 
was decreeing the exile from Genoa of all its Jew- 
ish residents.! In the house of Nicolo Giustiniani 
Paulo the book was printed by Pietro Paolo Porro 
of MilanJ after ten months labor by the scholarly 
Bishop. 

He spared no expense in securing a perfect 
piece of typography, and in addition to paying 
for the entire edition of 2,000 copies, he had fifty 
copies especially printed on vellum for presentation 
to royalty. His notes to the text show that his 
love of learning was equalled by his love for his 
church for his not inconsiderable scholarship is 

* The brother of the Doge the scholarly Fridericus Fulgosus, (Fre- 
goso) was a Hebrew student. Perles "Beitraege" p. 182. 

t Joseph Hacohen " Emek Habakha " ed. Letteris 94. 

J Dibdin "An introduction to the knowledge of rare editions . . . 
with an account of Polyglot Bibles . . ." London 1827. Porro's 
bookmark is given by Kristeller "die Italienischen Buchdrucker und 
Verlegerzeichen." Strassburg 1893 p. 63. 



[2271 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

marred by the manner of the ecclesiastical school- 
men, who in their study of the Hebrew classics 
sought prophecies of Christianity and authority 
for its dogma. The doctrine of the literary in- 
spiration of Scripture and of the infallibility of its 
official interpretation led the greatest orthodox 
scholars into exegetical pueriHties, which were the 
inevitable result of submitting reason and common 
sense to the dictates of what was believed to be 
an infallible tradition. What little there was of 
scientific historical investigation was cultivated by 
a small number of lay scholars whose attitude to- 
ward the church was more or less heretical. The 
trend of Catholic opinion is shown in the con- 
demnation of Luther's heresy, which consisted in 
the perfectly simple and entirely reasonable pro- 
position, that in order to understand the Bible we 
must study the Bible, instead of merely accepting 
the opinion of its official interpreters. 

One of the bishop's notes (on folio 25) is es- 
pecially interesting to us by reason of its allusion 
to the discovery of America. In commenting on 
the fifth verse of the nineteenth Psalm, "Their line 
has gone out through all the earth and their words 
to the end of the world," a text which he interprets 
in the manner of Paul in the tenth chapter of his 
Epistle to the Romans, the bishop says: "In our 
own times by his wonderful daring, Christopher 
Columbus, the Genoese, has discovered almost 
another world and a new congregation of Christians. 
In truth, as Columbus often maintained that God 

[228] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



had chosen him as the instrument for the fulfill- 
ment of this prophecy, I deem it not improper here 
to refer to his life." 

About 75 miles northwest of Genoa, between 
the cities of Turin and Milan, lies the little town 
of Trino, in its day a fine city, contended for by 
the Lords of Vercelli and the Marquises of Mont- 
ferrat. This town early became one of the chief 
centres of printing, producing some of the finest 
specimens of Italian incunabula and furnishing 
many printers to Venice. It is distinguished as 
the birthplace of Bernardino Stagnino and Gio- 
vanni Giolito, who established presses at Venice. 
Giolito had first printed at Trino 1518-23 but 
the disasters of war sent him to Venice* where he 
became the ancestor of a long line of famous 
printers. In the history of the Hebrew press it is 
represented by a single publication, a Hebrew 
prayer book, badly printed with poor type by 
Jacob, one of the sons of Abigedor, the butcher of 
Padua. Jacob, whose love for literature exceeded 
his scholarship, endeavored to promote the work 
of the press first at Rome when he and his brothers 
assisted in the establishment of the press which 
printed Elijah Levita's first book, and later at 
Trino, where he suddenly appears in the year 1525 
and becomes the publisher of the only Hebrew 
book ever printed at that place, and indeed one of 
the few signs of the existence of the Jewish com- 
munity there. His prayer book may not satisfy 

* Brown, "Studies" 2 : 90. 



[229] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the requirements of higher scholarship, but the 
thing to be noted is not that an unlearned butcher's 
son produced a bad edition of the prayer book, 
but that he did it at all * 

For nearly a hundred years thereafter no He- 
brew books were printed in this section of Italy. 
In 1620 a Hebrew press was established at Milan, 
at the Collegium Ambrosianum by the canons of 
Sant' Ambrogio, in charge of the famous Am- 
brosian library, and here were published the Com- 
mentaries of Rashi, Ibn Ezra and Gersonides. 

Fifty years have passed since Abraham the 
Dyer printed in the old university town of Bologna 
at the house of Abraham Caravita; he and all of 
his generation have passed away. Francesco 
Griffo likewise of Bologna, who cut types for Aldo 
Manuzio and Gerson Soncino, is also gone, and 
now, after a long interval, the Hebrew press is re- 
established by a company of Jewish silkweavers. 
The Jewish silkweavers of Bologna, like other 
medieval craftsmen, probably organized a guild, 
one of those corporations that were organized for 
the purpose of protection against powerful princes. 
Jealous of their rights, proud of their privileges, 
devoted to their callings and imbued with high 
artistic ideals, they helped to cultivate an efificiency 
in workmanship and perfection in detail that 
powerfully affected the art, business and enterprise 
of the later Middle Ages. Unfortunately for 

* The epigraph is given by Steinschneider, Ersch & Gruber 43 
n. 25. 

[230] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



Jewish craftsmen, the recognition of Christianity 
was a necessary pre-requisite to admission into the 
guilds, and therefore the Jewish silkweavers of 
Bologna if they organized at all were probably 



^ ^ 5 \ % \ II i i in ^ 



OiWj, *» CCA 

"^s^ At ^'^ 



•^ 



It 



t-fc. 






A 

^-^ 



-** v^ '•> 



Introductory Poem in Torak Or (Law is LigLt) 
The Silk^i'eavers, Bologna. 1538 

obliged to form a guild of their own. They are 
known as "the partners" and the "contracting 
partners" in the pubHcation of their books. Al- 
though we shall meet such printing partnerships in 
other cities such as Sabbioneta and Venice we have 

[231] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

no information as to the terms of their contracts 
and the manner of their execution. We may 
however judge from the analogy of a similar as- 
sociation of five partners in Milan a record of 
which is preserved. One of the partners cut type 
and prepared ink and the other four supplied the 
funds. The rent of the shop was divided equally 
but of the profits one-third went to the active 
partner and the remaining two-thirds were divided 
among the four capitalists. The term of the 
partnership was three years. One of the capital- 
ists acted as treasurer and was responsible for all 
the books, utensils, manuscripts etc. for which 
service he received one copy of every work issued. 
All the partners were obliged to agree before under- 
taking any business. Payment to the reader, 
copier and corrector was made in books and copies 
thus given were not to be put on the market below 
the regular selling price. The partners preserved 
secrecy, could have no connection with other 
presses, and might dissolve at the end of three 
years in which case the plant belonged to the active 
printing partner.* 

The silkweavers established their press some 
time during the year 1536 and between 1537 and 
1541 they published nine books, with the assist- 
ance of Isaac Immanuel de Lattes of Rome, a 
scholar of renown at that time sojourning in 
Bologna, who ten years thereafter in 1546 assisted 
in the establishment of the second Hebrew press 

* Brown "Venet. Print. Press" 27. 
[232] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



at Rome. The nine books published by them are 

of varying degrees of importance, a volume of 

legal decisions, some rabinnical works, portions of 

the Bible and books of devotion. Among their 

prayer books was the first Italian translation of 

the Hebrew prayer book, published with Hebrew 

letters and known as the Tefillot Latini, which 

enabled women and unlearned men to follow the 

prayers understandingly. For at all times, as is 

well known, instruction in Hebrew and Jewish 

literature was almost exclusively confined to boys, 

and often, particularly in troublous times when 

communities were in deadly peril, even they 

learned only enough Hebrew to be able to read the 

prayers and follow the reading of the law. This 

prayer book shows the effect of the censorship 

before publication, established by the Pope twenty 

years before, for in the prayer beginning with the 

words: "It is incumbent upon us to praise the 

Master of all", this edition omits the sentence: 

"For they bow down to idols and vanities, and 

worship a god in whom there is no salvation," a 

sentence interpreted by the censors to be a scornful 

reference to the worship of saints and relics and to 

the adoration of the crucified son of God. And 

we read: "For they worship and bow down — " 

to what? Unfortunately for the Church, men's 

thoughts could not be controlled, and the pious 

readers were free to fill in the gap as they chose. 

The folly of censorship as an attempt to suppress 

knowledge is self-evident, yet for centuries, even 

[233] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

to our times, the Church presumed to determine 
what men should think and say and print. When 
the censors deleted a passage of some text it was 
promptly memorized by all readers. If they 
ordered one word to be substituted for another, 
the original word was preserved by oral tradition, 
and the substituted word became a mere symbol, 
whereby its original was more keenly impressed 
on the memory. In many old books, the ink 
scrawls of the censors soon faded, and the marked 
passages were not only legible, but even made 
especially remarkable by the attempt to suppress 
them. Not to speak of the innumerable absurd- 
ities which the censor's ignorance of Hebrew pro- 
duced, the whole system was a waste of thought, 
time and money. 

Most of the printers at this press came from 
the Romagna to the jurisdiction of which Bologna 
belonged since 1512 and several of the printers at 
this press are known by name. Abraham b. 
Moses Cohen printed the Sefer Hasidim. The 
Mahzor of 1540 had four printers Jehiel b. Solomon 
of Ravenna, Menahem b. Abraham of Modena, 
Arye b. Solorr^on Hayyim of Monselice and Rafael 
Talmi of Forli.* 



* Manzoni 1 : 99. 

The following is a list of thebooks published by the"Silkweavers": 

1537 Or Ammim. 

Mahzor, Roman rite "by the hands of the contracting partners 
who also work in silk.'' Rafael Talmi, printer. 
Torah Or. 

[234] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



Near the Ponte Quattro Capi (Bridge of the 
Four Heads) at the southeastern entrance to the 
Ghetto of Rome, stands the Httle church of the 
Incannuciata, notable no doubt in its day for many 
a successful capture of stray Jewish souls, but dis- 
tinguished in no wise today except for an inscrip- 
tion in Hebrew over its portal intended as a rebuke 
to the stiflfnecked dwellers in the Ghetto. The 
Ghetto thanks to the government of the Kingdom 
of Italy is no more, and the inscription taken from 
the words of the great prophet of Israel now faces 
a broad open square where once stood the wretched 
houses. It is the crucified Jesus who from the 
church door cries in the words of Isaiah, "I have 
spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious 
people which walketh in a way that was not good 
after their own thoughts; a people that pro- 
voketh me to anger continually to my face." 
Formerly this inscription adorned the doorway 
of another church at the opposite side of the 
Ghetto, the church of Santa Maria del Pianto 
(Holy Mary of Weeping). Why Santa Maria 
shed tears here is unknown, whether for the stiff- 
necked Jews who dwelling before the face of her 
church refused to worship at her shrine, or for the 



1538 Piske Halakhot. 
Sefer Hasidim 
TefiUot Latini. 
Commentary on the Five Scrolls. 

1539 Responsa of Solomon ben Adret. Uncensored and complete; 
all later editons are incomplete. H. B. 1 : 48. 

1540 Mahzor, Italian rite. 



[235] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

hard-heartedness and cruelty of her servants who 
made the lives of these Jews an endless nightmare. 
In the open square where once stood the Ghetto 
between the Incannuciata and Santa Maria del 
Pianto, the Jewish congregation in July 1904 dedi- 
cated a new synagogue, large, distinguished, shin- 
ing in white and gold, in place of the old houses 
of worship that scarce dared rear their humble 
heads before the churches of the dominant faith. 
Well may Santa Maria weep at the revenge the 
centuries have taken, when even in her own city 
she must witness the eternal vigor now publicly 
manifest of that ancient worship which her priests 
had proclaimed dead and superseded. 

In this very place, some four hundred years ago, 
there lived four Jews who had come from Padua 
after the disasters of the year 1509, when Padua 
was taken and plundered by the soldiers of the 
League of Cambrai. In the reign of Pope Julius 
III three of them, sons of a butcher named Abige- 
dor Levi, and the fourth, a scholar and Hebrew 
grammarian, came down from the inhospitable 
north of Italy and settled in Rome under the 
shadow of the church of Santa Maria del Pianto. 
Some time after their advent in Rome Pope Julius 
III who desired to be "lord and master of this 
life's game" was gathered to his fathers and Pope 
Leo X who merely "desired to hve" reigned in his 
stead. 

We have often had occasion to mention this 
brilliant and liberal pontiff, who was friend and 

[236] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



patron to the Jews the humanists the men of the 
arts and sciences. Through the influence of his 
private physician Bonet de Lattes, known to 
every denizen of the Jewish district, and without 
doubt well acquainted with Elijah Levita the 
Hebrew grammarian whose advent from Padua 




'ope Xjco 



Leo X. 



we have chronicled, the Pope in the first year of 
his pontificate granted a new trial to the noble 
defender of the Talmud Johannes Reuchhn, and 
thus auspiciously for the Jews inaugurated a reign 
which by contrast with their general condition 
seemed to the devoted people to be ushering in the 
advent of the Messiah. 

[237 1 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

During this comparatively happy period the 
Jews of Rome lived in peace and amity with their 
Christian fellows, not yet restricted to the narrow 
confines of the Ghetto and living freely in the 
district in which they were subsequently penned, 
and far beyond its confines. Within the purlieus 
of the Jewish quarter and within sight of the 
church where the pitiful inscription was later to 
invite the sons of persecution to the peace of the 
church, lay the Piazza Montanara. Here then as 
now, the Jews lived under the frowning walls of 
the fortress palace of the Orsini. Among them 
dwelt a Christian printer, one Giovanni Giacomo 
Fagiot da Montecchio, who was also to do his 
share in the press of 1518 toward producing the 
few books that were to mark an era in the history 
of the Jews at Rome. And now another figure 
appears upon the scene, one of the great ones of 
the earth Egidio of Viterbo the General of the 
Augustinians, raised to the Cardinalate in 1517 
by Pope Leo, and distinguished by his oratory 
his general scholarship and his knowledge of 
Orientalia. In 1514 Elijah Levita not unknown 
even to the Pope himself, attracted by the pre- 
late's well known reputation for Hebrew scholar- 
ship and great learning, presented himself at his 
palace gates and asked for an interview.* Egidio 
did not allow the grammarian to knock in vain. 
Elijah describes warmly how Egidio fell upon his 
neck and kissed him and took him and his family 

* Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 88. 

[2381 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



into the palace, and they became teacher and 
pupil, exchanging knowledge and sharpening each 
other like iron upon iron. "And God enlightened 
the mind of this wise and learned man . . . and 
he called me Elijah the Levite the German unto 
him and he said unto me, 'What doest thou here 
Elijah? Arise and make a book expounding the 
grammar of the holy tongue for in all the writings 
of the grammarians that I have seen I find none 
to satisfy me.'" And thereupon Elijah composed 
his Sefer Harkabah and his Sefer Bahur. 

Although Elijah Levita was about forty-seven 
years old and enjoyed an enviable reputation 
among scholars, he had printed nothing. But now 
that the time had come for the wider diffusion of 
his works, his friend and patron the Cardinal 
began to devise ways and means for obtaining the 
necessary permission to print. For the influence 
of the Dominicans was strong and showed itself 
in active opposition to even so innocent and harm- 
less a thing as a Hebrew grammar. A concession 
had been made to them by the Pope, in his Bull 
published in 1516, which provided for the sub- 
mission of every manuscript to a board of censors 
consisting in Rome of the Papal Vicar and the 
Master of the Sacred Palace. While plans were 
being formulated in the library of the Cardinal for 
the publication of Elijah's books, the sons of 
Abigedor generously undertook to finance the 
enterprise, and Giovanni Giacomo* da Montecchio 

* Faciotto or Fazot or Fagiot. 



[239; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

was glad to have the work done at his shop in the 
Piazza Montanara. What arguments Cardinal 
Egidio used in his conference with the Pope is 
unknown, nor need we assume that much per- 
suasion was required. The work was after the 
Pope's own heart, and the fact that it was properly 
financed by responsible men, protected the papal 
treasury from all responsibility. Therefore the 
Pope did under his papal seal permit a Hebrew 
press to be established in the house of Giovanni 
Giacomo Fagiot da Montecchio in the Piazza 
Montanara by Isaac, Yomtob and Jacob, the sons 
of Abigedor of Padua, and there on the first day 
of Ab 1518 after sixteen days' work appeared the 
Sefer Haharkabah* the first Hebrew book printed 
in Rome.f Three times daily the author and one 
whom he calls his friend superintended the work 
and read the proofs. It is possible that this friend 
was the Cardinal himself. J We shall see that the 
Bishop of Aleria the Pope's own librarian had 
assisted at the press of Schweinheim and Pan- 
nartz when they first set up their shop in Rome in 
1407. And the enthusiasm which prompted the 
Cardinal to take Elijah and his family into his 
palace and sustain them for ten years, was surely 
at least in its inception sufficient to carry him 
through the ordeal of personally superintending 

*De Rossi "Ann. 1501-1540" p. 17. 

t The colophon of this book is reprinted in Vogelstein & Rieger 
2 : 416. 

J Vogelstein & Rieger. 

[240] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



the "holy work" of the press in the Piazza Mon- 
tanara. "Grazia e privilegio" by grace and per- 
mission of the Papal Vicar, the book appeared, 
first of all Hebrew books to be subjected to Chris- 
tian censorship before publication. With feverish 
haste the printers worked at the press as though 
they anticipated its early stoppage. Within three 
months two other books of Elijah Levita appeared, 
the Bahur,* which with the Harkabah, was the 
beginning of a long series of books with which this 
remarkable scholar enriched the science of Hebrew 
linguistics. But not at Rome were his other books 
to see the light, although he continued to live in 
the palace of Cardinal until in the sack of Rome 
in 1527 he lost his property and his books and was 
forced to flee for his life.f Suffice it to say that 
the three books of Elijah Levita were the first 
Hebrew books printed in Rome, and with the ex- 
ception of a small pamphlet containing the 52d- 
53d chapters of Isaiah with a Latin translation, 
the last that were printed there until 1546. J Some 
scholars argue that as Rome had almost the 
earliest press in Italy it must also have had an 
earlier Hebrew press than the one that printed 
Levita's books and to this early press they have 
ascribed a dozen books printed without date or 



* The approbation of the Bahur is reprinted by Perles "Beitraege," 
p. 202. 

t Notwithstanding his ecclesiastical patronage his grammar was 
placed on the Louvain Index of 1550 & 1558. Reusch. p. 71. 

t Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 115. 



[241] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

place of publication but bearing evidence of having 
been issued before 1480.* Some of these con- 
tain the printers' namesf but these have as yet 
thrown no light on the subject. There is no rea- 
son to believe that Pope Sixtus IV. who reigned 
from 1471 to 1484 or Alexander VI. (after 1492) 
would have refused an application of the Jews of 
Rome to permit Hebrew printing had such an 
application been accompanied by a sufficient sum 
of money. "Accipe, sume, cape, tria sunt gratis- 
sima papae" (accept, receive and take, three 
words most pleasing to the Pope.) J Bonet de 

* The following list of these books is taken from Steinschneider's 
article in Ersch & Gruber p. 35; Sacchi p. SO; De Rossi "Ann. Sec. 
XV." 121-129; Freimann "Ueber hebr. Ink." p. 8; Jew. Enc. Art. 
" Incunabula." 

1. Maimonides "Moreh Nebuhim" (small folios). 

2. Moses de Coucy "Semag" (large folio). 

3. Nahmanides "coram, on Pentateuch" (large folio). 

4. Nathan ben Jehiel "Arukh" (folio). 

5. Rashi, "coram, on Pentateuch." (large quarto). 

6. Gersonides "comra. on Daniel" (quarto). 

7. Kimhi "Shorashim" (large folio) . 

8. Solomon ben Adret "Responsa" (quarto). 

9. Maimonides "Yad " 2 vols, (large folio). 

10. Psalms without points (duodecirao) . 

11. Psalms with index and grace after meals (duodecimo). 

12. Kirahi, Isaiah and Jeremiah. 

De Rossi thinks Nos. 1 and 2 belong to the same press and Nos. 
3 to 7 have same types. No. 7 was printed after 1478 for its epigraph 
refers to an event of that year; Z. H. B. 7 : 25. 

13. Maimonides "Yad." 

14. Mairaonides "Yad" a copy of which is in the possession of 
Dr. Gaster of London; apparently an Italian print. 

t Nos. 3, 4, 5, Obadiah, Menasse and Benjamin of Rorae. No. 9, 
Solomon b. Judah and Obadiah b. Moses. No. 13, Moses b. Shealtiel. 
tZ. H. B. 10 :62. 

[242] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



Lattes the physician of Alexander VI. could surely 
have accomplished as much with that easy going 
tyrant as Elijah Levita at a later date with Leo X. 
Bonet printed an astronomical treatise dedicated 
to Alexander VI. in 1493 and another one in 1498 
at Christian presses.* There were Jewish printers 
from Rome in various Italian citiesf but no satis- 
factory proof that they or any one else printed 
Hebrew books at Rome. J 

We are not concerned with the disputes of the 
bibliographers, and until they agree we may safely 
assume that the burden of proof is upon those who 
allege that Hebrew books were produced in Rome 
before 1518. The same arguments that point to 
Rome might be used for proof of an early Hebrew 
press at Florence or Venice. Florence the home 
of the Muses had a flourishing press as early as 
1471, yet no Hebrew book was pubHshed there 
until 1700; Venice freest of all the States of Italy 
printed upwards of 2,800 books before 1500, but 
none in Hebrew. Hebrew printing began in the 
smaller States, in Mantua, Ferrara, Bologna, in 

* Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 81-82. 

t Samuel b. Abi Samuel at Naples 1486, Israel Ashkenazi at 
Pesaro 1511-14. Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 114. 

J The arguments for and against the existence of a Roman Hebrew 
press are given by 

(pro) Chwolson "Reshith Maase Hadefus " 
Schwab "les incunables " etc. 
Jewish Encyclopedia art. "Incunabula", "Rome" 
Simonsen "Hebraisk Bogtrygk " 
(con) Berliner "Gesch. der Juden in Rom" 
Seeligman "Z. H. B." 7: 25. 
Freimann doubts existence of Roman press. "Uebr. hebr. Ink." 



[243] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the village of Pieve di Sacco, in the towns of Son- 
cino and Reggio di Calabria and neither Venice 
nor Rome permitted Hebrew printing until after 
the beginning of the sixteenth century. In Venice 
after Bomberg's press started Hebrew books were 
printed continuously, with but rare intervals until 
our own days, but in Rome only an occasional and 
short-lived press arose. 1518, 1546, 1547, these 
three dates tell the whole story of the printing of 
Hebrew books by Jews in Rome. In 1563 the 
apostate Giulio Morosini published a book* for 
the Congregation de Propaganda Fide. From 
1578 to 1581 Francesco Zanetti, with the assistance 
of Vittorio Eliano a grandson of Elijah Levita 
baptized and in good standing in the church, 
printed three of the Biblical books notably the 
Hebrew grammar of the Jesuit Cardinal Roberto 
Bellarmino.f Toward the end of the seventeenth 
century the Congregation de Propaganda Fide 
printed some books for missionary purposes, and 
thereafter until the year 1810 no Hebrew book 
left the press in Rome. During the short period 
of freedom in the days of the Roman Republic, 
the trustees of the Hebrew school had a Hebrew 
prayer book printed. Then came the period of 
reaction and again the presses were silent. 

Well might Jewish literature have been for- 
gotten under the century-long assaults of ecclesias- 

* Derek Emunah. 

t Institutiones linguae Hebraicae, Rome 1578. Assisted by Vit- 
torio Eliano, he also printed a volume of Genesis in 1578, Megillot in 
1580 and Psalms in 1581.— Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 116. 

[244] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



tical intolerance. But in Italy they say "E osti- 
nato come un Ebreo," and it was the determined 
obstinacy of the Jew that, despite threats and 
pains, blandishments and bribes, saved him and his 
literature from destruction. Even the non-He- 
brew press had a thorny path in the Eternal City. 
Unlike the presses in the smaller principalities it 
had no noble patrons whose pride it was to support 
an enterprise which redounded to their glory. Its 
ecclesiastical patrons, intent with very few ex- 
ceptions on using it as a means of furthering the 
glory of God, cared little for the welfare of the 
printers, and its history in the city of Rome is a 
record of bankruptcies. The magnificent folios 
of Schweinheim and Pannartz, printed on paper 
that rivals vellum in its beauty and durability, 
with types that imitate the calligraphy of the 
masters of the art, are to-day the admiration and 
deUght of booklovers. The Pope's librarian the 
Bishop of Aleria gave himself up unreservedly to 
the work of furthering their splendid work; he 
ransacked the library of the Vatican for manu- 
scripts to furnish them with "copy", he read 
proofs and himself stood at the press to superin- 
tend the work, but when the time came as it came 
to all the pioneers when the expenses of their 
undertakings could no longer be met by the income 
from their sales, they appealed in vain to the papal 
treasury for help. Peter's pence were needed for 
more important enterprises, the papal pensioners 
were many, the ambitions of papal nephews and 

[245] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

satellites were gratified only at an expense that 
absorbed the stream of money which flowed into 
the treasury from the revenues of the papal states, 
from the offerings of the faithful and from the 
gifts of the princes of the world. 

When we read of the neglect of the printer's art 
in the papal city, we see in the words of De Rossi, 
himself an ecclesiastic, a rebuke to the short- 
sightedness and unprogressiveness of the Holy 
See. He says: * "There is no art which carries 
men away into greater admiration than typog- 
raphy; none which even at its origin had gained 
greater renown. Scarcely had it been invented, 
scarcely had the first specimens been published, 
when it was esteemed by all, wonderful, porten- 
tous, divine. Kingdoms, provinces. States, princes, 
and private menf strove with one another in 
their eagerness to take hold of it, to cultivate it, 
to advance it to greater perfection, and, with 
equal zeal, authors learned in its origin and pro- 
gress, are diligently investigating as to who intro- 
duced it into the world and developed it, as to 
which cities first took it up, as to which books 
were first produced in each province and state." 

Pope Leo X had been succeeded by Clement 
VII, and now Paul HI sat on the throne of St. 
Peter. He showed his favor toward the Jews in 
various ways. He made Jacob Mantino his 
private physician; he renewed all the privileges 

* De typ-hebr-Ferrar. p. ix. 

t Note how De Rossi omits all references to the church. 

[246] 




1 

5,; 




rr. 


PAVLVSIII'PONT'OPT.MAX- 




•^;;.KJ;^fiS:iisi«B>.v:,;*^;,•v:;;■. ■ :\ :r '^u'ii:<fS-'';mvi>r::/:-.i:y- ■'~::'^-ss^ii:^m: ■ - 





MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

that his predecessors had granted; he permitted 
the Jewish exiles from Naples to settle in his city; 
he published a Bull condemning the blood-accusa- 
tions in Hungary Bohemia and Poland; he abol- 
ished the Passion Plays in the Colisseum, a source 
of terror and suffering to the Jews, and finally he 
permitted the re-establishment of the Hebrew 
printing press. 

By a mere accident Hebrew printing escaped 
the notoriety of having the son of the Pope actively 
engaged in its promotion.* Pier Luigi Farnese, the 
son of Pope Paul III, applied for the privilege of 
establishing a Hebrew press at Rome. For some 
reason the Pope, who did not hesitate to confer 
the highest honors and dignities and liberal grants 
of territory upon his son, did not immediately 
grant the privilege but referred the petition to a 
commissioner, who reported favorably with the 
proviso however that the press should only reprint 
old Hebrew books. The plan was abandoned by 
Pier Luigi whose appointment as Duke of Parma 
and Piacenza by the Pope embroiled him in serious 
political troubles with the aristocracy of his Duchy 
whose privileges he had ruthlessly curtailed. Per- 
haps if he had confined his ambition to printing 
Hebrew books instead of attempting to rule two 
principalities that hated and despised him, his life 
might have been more useful. It certainly would 
have been longer, for he was assassinated by con- 
spirators after a reign of only two years. 

* R. E. J. 27: 210, 233. 

[248] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



At the time when Pier Luigi Farnese was en- 
tering his new Duchy, Maestro Antonio Blado 
d'Asola, who had had some experience in printing 
Hebrew texts,* filed his petition in partnership 
with two of the leading Jews of Rome praying for 
leave to print Hebrew books in Rome. This was 
granted by the Papal Vicar, who was also one of 
the censors of the press, and on the 13th of Jan- 




itsrv "itfDS pnji e-Bricn 't Sr p w st od tpsii 

nBo6 w »»jnfip b" ID)' iwa f r'oa !b'r D6uh 

tofim plhjin WW Ws^t ifnf^b )f"j)ojft 

'CDD lifti cnsi PD PJO Wfi3 rnDj)3 

Title page of Rabbi Nissim's Responsa 
Rome, 1546 

ary, 1547, after five months' work, there was 
completed the Responsat of Rabbi Nissim Ger- 
ondi. The partners of Maestro Antonio Blado 
were Isaac ben Immanuel de Lattes,t whose 

* On July 25, 1524 he issued Canticles with translation and com- 
mentary of Guidacerius. 

■j- Legal Opinions. 

JAzulai "Shem Hagedolim" (ed. Frankf. 1844) 3 :33. Vogel- 
stein & Rieger 2 : 99 ; he helped to establish the press of the silk weavers 
of Bologna. Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 100; Perles "Beitraege" 190. 

[249] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

father and grandfather had been court physicians 
to the Popes, and who was himself a scholar of 
renown and a member of the Rabbinical Court of 
Justice at Rome, and Benjamin ben Joseph 
d'Arignano, the scholar of whom Cornelio Adel- 
kind wrote to Andrea Masio. Benjamin d'Arig- 
nano's large and noted library, was frequently 
used by Italian printers who found his splendid 
collection of manuscripts invaluable for correcting 
their "copy." The chief printer at this press was 
Solomon ben Isaac of Lisbon assisted by Samuel 
the Frenchman (Zarfati), who afterward in 1551 
appeared at the head of a press at Ferrara. This 
partnership of Christian and Jew is by no means 
uncommon; the Christian obtained the official 
privileges and the Jew did the work of editing, 
proof reading, finding a market for the books, and 
often also the actual work of printing. The type- 
setters also were usually Jews, for the Christian 
craftsmen seem rarely to have acquired dexterity 
in handling and setting Hebrew type. 

Antonio Blado was in his day the most dis- 
tinguished printer in Italy, and was official printer 
to the Papal court for more than half a century 
from 1516 when Bomberg began his career at 
Venice to 1567 long after Bomberg's death.* 
From every part of Italy orders came to his press 



* Fumagalli 19. His native Asola in the province of Brescia lies 
in the great Plain of Lombardy; here Andrea Torresano was born, the 
successor of Nicolas Jensen at Venice, the father-in-law of Aldo Manu- 
zio and the successor of that great printer in 1515. 

[250] 



SOME MINOR PRESSES 



in the Campo di Fiore * and he was accustomed 
Hke many of the great printers of the time notably 
the great Hebrew printer Gerson Soncino to wan- 
der about carrying his presses with him. Unlike 
Gerson however he always came back again to his 
headquarters at Rome.f 

The incense-laden atmosphere of Rome, how- 
ever, was fatal to the production of Hebrew books, J 
and after issuing five books in 1547^ the press so 
auspiciously begun came to an end. The Inquisi- 
tion and its censors could not tolerate a Hebrew 
press under the very shadow of St. Peter's** and 
although some books were printed in 1578 they 
were merely Bible texts printed by a Christian 
and edited by an apostate none other than the 
grandson of EHjah Levita. 

* Fumagalli 343 ; his book mark is reproduced by Kristeller 
"Die Ital. Buchdr. u. Verleg. Zeichen" p. 54. 

t In 1549 he printed at Rieti; Fumagalli 326; in 1562 at Foligno 
in the palace of Cardinal Clemente Dolera; Fumagalli 159. In 1546 
he declined an invitation of the authorities of Viterbo to establish his 
press there; Fumagalli 522. 

J Prayer and school books for the Roman congregation of Jews 
were printed at Mantua and Venice. 
Tf Responsa of Nissim b. Reuben. 
Iggeret Hakodesh of Nachmanides. 
Pesak. 

Yad Shearim of Samuel Zarfati; Ersch & Gruber 62. 
Also probably Grammar of David b. Joseph Yahya of Naples 
but see Schwab "les incunables" 125. 

** Berliner, Gesch. der Juden in Rom 2 : 136. 



[251] 



CHAPTER XI. 

THE QUARREL OF GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 
AND THE CONDEMNATION OF THE TALMUD. 

Marco Antonio Giustiniani — His Talmud Edition — List 
of His Publications — Rabbi Meir of Padua and His Edition 
of Maimonides — The Foundation of the House of Bragaiini 
— Giustiniani' s Rival Edition of Maimonides — The Decision 
of Rabbi Moses Isserles — The Quarrel is Carried to Rome — 
The Roman Apostates — The Far-Reaching Effect of the 
Quarrel — The Cardinals Condemn the Talmud to Be Destroyed 
— The Protest of Andrea Masio — The Burning of the Talmud 
in the Campo di Fiori — The Decree of the Council of Ten at 
Venice — The Books of Judah di Lerma and the Heirs of 
Bomberg — The Papal Bull of 1554 — The Death of Pope 
Julius III. 

IN the year 1545 Marco Antonio Giustiniani of 
the family of Venetian patricians whose palaces 
still grace the Grand Canal, established a Hebrew 
press near the Bridge of the Rialto in the Calle 
delli Cinque alia Giustizia Vecchia.* His printer's 
mark bears a representation of the temple at 
Jerusalem and the words of Haggai the prophet, 
"Great shall be the glory of this house, saith the 
Lord of Hosts." "Greater perhaps than the glory 
of the house of Bomberg" may have been the 
thought of Giustiniani, for his wealth position and 
influence made him at once a formidable rival to 
the now aged Bomberg. But his glory was short- 

* Brown "Venet. Printing Press" p. 106. See also Seder Tefillot 
German rite 1545. 

[252] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

lived, for although his press began with splendid 
prospects and showed great activity, his strength 
was not equal to the contest with the rising 
Bragadini, and after a short but fierce competition 
the glory of the house of Giustiniani departed and 
his proud printer's mark was supplanted by the 
three crowns of his successful rival. At the outset 
of his career he secured the services of the force 
of the Dei Farri press, including the master printer 
Cornelio Adelkind who after serving Giustiniani 
for a short time, apparently to help establish his 
press, resumed his work exclusively at the Romberg 
press until Romberg's death, when he returned to 
the service of Giustiniani remaining with him until 
the press came to a standstill in 1552. Cornelio's 
son Daniel now a printer of well established repu- 
tation also served at Giustiniani's press, dedicating 
one of his books Das Frauenbuechlein in 1552, to 
his father Cornelio as a gift from a devoted son. 
The partners Judah b. Isaac Halevi Ashkenazi of 
Frankfurt and Dr. Yehiel b. Yekutiel Ha-Cohen 
likewise joined the Giustiniani press and con- 
tributed to the success of the fine edition of the 
Rabylonian Talmud published 1546-1551.* Gius- 
tiniani's types were cut by Michel Du Roisf and 

* It was edited by Joshua Boaz and corrected by MeshuUam b. 
Shemaiah, known as Kopman, evidently a German; Rabb. "Maamar," 
p. 43. 

t Ceste grosse lettre est de la taille de Me Michel Du Bois qu'il 
tailla a Venise pour le magnifique Messer Marco Anthonio Justinian, 
gentil homme venitian, laquelle Me. Leon juif, me voulut fayre 
refayre. From marginal notes of Guillaume le Be'; Omont p. 7. 

[253] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Guillaume le Be * the Frenchman and by an en- 
graver of the Venetian mint.f It was probably 
this edition that was the basis of the charge made 
by Bragadini that Giustiniani was attempting to 
ruin Bomberg by his competition. The edition 
of the Talmud was in fact based on the Bomberg 
editions just as these were based on the first 
editions of Soncino ; { and it in turn became the 
basis for subsequent editions.^ It has almost com- 
pletely disappeared** for it was published just 
before the decree of Pope Julius III. against the 
Talmud. 

Of far greater importance than the productions 
of the Giustiniani press was the personal rivalry 
between Giustiniani and Bragadini, one incident 
of which totally unforeseen was of far-reaching 
consequences for the Jews of Italy. The innocent 
first cause of what was really a national Jewish 
disaster, was the man whose influence attracted 
Bragadini to Hebrew printing, the respected and 
learned Rabbi Meir of Padua, founder of the dis- 
tinguished rabbinical family of Katzenellenbogen, 

* Texte moyen que j'ay taille a Venise pour le magnifique Marc 
Anthoine Justinian gentilhomme Venitian. Omont p. 4. And as 
late as 1SS6 after Giustiniani had ceased printing Hebrew books he had 
a law suit with Guillaume on account of types cut for one "Maggio." 
Perhaps Meir Parenzo, Onmont p. S. 

t Ce petit texte est de Justinian, taille' par un graveur de monnoye 
et cachetz a Venise Omont. p. 7. 
tH. B. 5 : 122. 

H H. B. 5 : 122, Rabb. "Maamar" 48. 
** Chwolson 23. 

[254] 




Title pa^e of Ratbi Stem ToL's Homilies 

Giustiniani, Venice, 1547 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

so called from the rabbi's birthplace in Hesse- 
Nassau.* 

Among the rabbi's literary labors was an edition 
of Maimonides' Code of the Law, "The Strong 
Hand"t a book that was already well known 
in the Jewish book markets, for it had been 
printed four times, first at an unknown time 
and place again in 1490 at Soncino the third time 
in 1509 by the house of Nahmias at Constantinople 
and finally in 1524 by Bomberg. When Rabbi 
Meir concluded to seek a publisher, he naturally 
turned to Venice which harbored the only Hebrew 
press in Italy. The year 1549 was a period of 
extraordinary inactivity. Indeed there were but 
three houses in the world that were printing 
rabbinical books, Parnas at Constantinople the 
sons of Gershon Cohen at Prague and Giustiniani 
at Venice, and excluding Giustiniani's Talmud 
texts there were probably not half a dozen Hebrew 
books published in the world. For reasons un- 
known to us Giustiniani did not satisfy the rabbi 
and he determined to establish a new press, by 
associating himself with some enterprising and 
influential Christian. Such a man he found in 
Alvise Bragadini under whose name a press was 
established which in the year 1550 published Rabbi 
Meir's edition of "The Strong Hand." Scarcely 
had the book appeared when another edition of 
the full text of "The Strong Hand" was thrown 



* Jew. Enc. 7 : 4S4. 
t Yad hahazakah. 



[255] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

into the market by Giustiniani, of course without 
the notes of Rabbi Meir. Then there arose be- 
tween the two houses a fierce contention that 
ultimately resulted in the confiscation and burning 
of all Hebrew books. Bragadini claimed perhaps 
with justice that Giustiniani's edition was pub- 
lished at this time for the malicious purpose of 
wrecking the new press, in pursuance of the policy 
through which he had endeavored to ruin the 
business of Bomberg. He charged him with the 
attempt "to prevent me from printing the Talmud 
on new paper of uniform quality — and not differing 
like his."* No doubt Giustiniani made appro- 
priate reply, and the situation became acute. 
What was to be done? Wisdom and experience 
would have said, "Let the issue be decided by the 
rules of the open market. Let the Jewish reading 
public choose between the edition enriched with 
the notes of Rabbi Meir known throughout the 
Jewries of Europe, and the edition of Giustiniani 
containing only the text and the notes of the older 
commentators." But Bragadini and the rabbi, 
fearing the immediate consequence of this com- 
petition, determined to use positive measures to 
subdue their rival. Whereupon Rabbi Meir wrote 
to his disciple and kinsman Rabbi Moses Isserles, 
of Cracow, then just beginning the brilliant career 
that made him the greatest European authority 
on rabbinical law. 

* Perles, "Beitraege" p. 230. 

[256] 






^7:' j^'prr? ujT'i j-j < * Jit*** ■> ' U ' U J ^rwipi^iMJfc 

llpll«<*l 



wp -wa wj 77inii 7ri? 3T3 ip"p ^i7 [i hsii» 



•SCI* ?Pl^^|P"7•l^•ppli3ptl^c'oWiD):P3^l'Klio•7Plfr "*'pfr 
iM^MMiBriM^'v -c^ ■3'^'' ^'f* ^'""pD t7c'3 <3^ 7'X)p or^ 
tMtakammkam0fmmmif^miSv^t> ^t>^L* <7q3 >33 3T3f 
f>i>Wi>'j)<73 t^i>ot>yjyyftosammmtl^^i^K0im^D 
tt>is* D5P 61P -injciTpp i'tJ P^T pfr i'7 rxvt:>''pavyj>stu} 

7tP3 (fit Onjfrj 7'J5'I J:D7P 7np3 fr3' ?iP"pD ifrico n'j»»i 
JJOfr ("aP irj? Si) 7CP3 frio 3p»'3 7'J)'I pi ^3' D'i'lfr P7)a33 
■»'*'» 7jt3 730: ffy pmjip b 76P3 frip <;01'3 7WPI 7»'l)rp 

ip7ptcJfr'3T!u)7'j)'iDi'77h3'Di;Srr);'CpfrJci'7'3ntP'»P3 
p w'ifn •pnp3P 7SI3I 'Pits 77i3i »^PlPP'(S'i^lfr3• pWp 
©pi7j? i;p> ^ptsD^S? p^ir? J>t> t)^"pc^^7c'^ i7'j)n iftjia 
p:U!3i cfr7p oi pjp oJwicoiJi iVjspfrnpfr'i u)p6>»p7ri 

37J>3 P10 frjo'l) ^363 Ssf" WCJWS P7»JC'P oiuJSC C-tit i'fr 
PJJffrlOJi ISSPPO P3)W'i C pip POP 350)^1 '3D3 isft' PPWD 
Cf0y3 P'33fr7C fr3'J'37'^P'ti]JjCI?"377pfrfrpPJp'JP'P> 
^ TI'*JP'''P^ ]' forift|7?piiP'i7PpitPriCJjioi'PPPlpiJ^ 

*rp ^^73^I7pPwm<■i•WlP■S^P»**"•**•■■■» 



.i33 Per '73)) [3 ^i 7pft3DPCP Pf IAD ]3 Ui^3P J"C^7'"ii|S-:t» 

OP J1IJH3D jJipii^p is rcpi frjp in3B7poii 7pfr /^ip Ir^^ 'p'i 

ifr ppi UJ3' 6J^3 0'P)C3 D'Jip 7'P J)IP7CP D'PJ? fPI ipiSjC 
D>pt730i3 -jPJ!) 7r^3D pis CP D'p'7 J bp' i3^ D3"3P3 p7p?J» 
B3P TCP pfc» p) 03''3P3 p7p7 pEiip-r-) pj' lJ37pl^ ^? |3| 
O'pc PP3 ift-jpi 03 J>7r i? D^^ J5fr i/jp 7p^:c I'lO PPJ IPlfr 
^P^ 737 73r 7t53 is 71pB ^P^^P/l^7P PP3 >n>pSt if'Dif -iPha 
Wlp)piofr'3tPP'P)Ji'3t3ripD'33^lifrCUiDPiJiBDT('iSp» 
)i P'P) J5i3)3t ip I'PB 'pi OP'in P'JCP 3'P 6il D:"3pS]'P3P P'P 
^PP 13|'3P3 PI^'3iPlpiui3P'Pf J'l^3J5|'ij7pipJ)Pfr6pl)'i ™** 
•3si DOipP DS'^D 1'3P VP>ti olwV J»ipiril*)p.-]n3CnpO 
lM'3PO'DlpPp7p|S3PDPti3^ J7J3 l'/'3D'rjpi37pfr3DDli3 
p'61 ■ i^7C"333 731 7O3i3J7fppP»pi33 03;'frP>rp>3fr'[3i 
("Pplli P^PP7 ^lPpftp^6D3PJ''3l lf>)i 7wi60? T;)PP07fr 
9UjilS'7 P'!u) '7p P'POlsi P'UPP ('3U77 frh ^IS^f> '37 pP37P CMJ tw -B 
" >3lilPft'3^7y»i6"0t7frfrifr07^npJiijil'PPJ507frlJ)/i| 



PrPDiir3P*it)i731'P<33S0D3'PP'37'3J''aPlB3i HSIN J^T'tJ 

^Pfr ^3i Twi i3^'3P3P ;»PI77 PH |'fr J>3C3P J''3I93 PHP JPIJ 

1PP I3PICPPPP Diu>3 Plce'7J(S pj7 ^'3P K(> ^Ip-]173Pnpp ipv Jt'« 

37 7P^pjP7p '33T^'3P-'»JI '5P pSji 7Plfr 3'P37 ^IP fr7P JJIPI^ "' 

P3pP W33) OWJ OP'ip WCJ-P W>i>7pJ333P JJpijll^ fsip 

7J)7t3P J)1333;»3CI'P OWJ? \'f>D J^lS7fr 7^C3CPI'ij li/'r7/Jp 

37iiptC37r'3'J"frO'PHCeP'3frr-ftlf'7P';>)iD>7'3P'3riJ7p 

np7 P^'P'P 37 P>i7P^ 0'IJ3'ncij7j)^3P7PJCPDP7IPP'3 

P:P 73 •)3f>3T)pf>rPfi'>3 >7I35i'7JP3(i7p3pi3'frpi^P'i 

•31 7P^737 " ^Ip-jn3pr7ppJpJPpij>l/i7p'PD'p'730<7TP »«?»>'* 

tphC 0IP7 DIpPP hpS fit) Dipp ip (PBJJJHpi b7pili 7CPifr 

p*7367p3'?pp?D)Pj>SiPPPCuriop7Pnp?r'^<]6'»I';p!om» 

71DRI IPfcp 7'CP ^7p3 p'73 VP PJJ^ t^fi I'377 izo'"' ^-73 7pfcD 
is 7pl^I 'PP3 f>7p3P is ^Ph 13^ 7'nP 'fPPr^ rjfivvpplsy 
M3p3 CUP is •tPaJpi'"i»»i37Pltl pSp»'"0C367p'7Cfr 
7'jiwi 'ripC '7frP'J"^)^&573 hS'P 7 nTCPlfritPPt'ItTP* 

itp-jp^pnpp^op^si 



frpnTpP IPV)(3JJ »PP P3'ip3l IPTIIDIP;^^ PpP337pfr3P frsl'l 
»P3 ifr7P7D'CB HPP73 QP fr'3ni'3 h friP 1173 PI7pP yf>p-)Vf> 
7P^ l*PI ^TPipi IPI »7I1P7 JPP 7JJ TIRPPS'pP P3PPP7 ]'3pl 
trjpp TP UJ3P "P 'I3IJJ3 7ICB7 'PS PS'DP jP TUP 7J)»3» f37 
»pi JJji' ''» pPC 0'PP3 3£1' 7r('3P OP'ip pPPn 3PI' tPP ^n3 
e)<p (pltfrifr mSlP3plPC fr)?lP7:?,tl7pp >i l'l*pP3"37 7P/t 
7iWi7ptfr -CViS (i>3P7MpPJ"377frpi iiPVf fr3'frl73i3 

(*'y Mt?''^'p^s•i3pptp»^•7P'Jpp)D^^J^PPlp^fri^D•^^^3i r ii ] i? 'i ii i f 'i 11 1* n ■auft^lifcju^ 

PpSpT7n»P'3D'7J)i3p6it3fr3l'3PXPPJ>iP>io'7Jpi3pp|'^ ^ j|H|ifa'fr 'P> Jpfr' PP^ipOP^it 7P^:P Jifpip^li Olf-i ff> 

p<3■^l>;9)pnr91DP<c^73l■i'SP]■P'9PrD*7]7JO•7JD'p]^^p^i^^'' nliHi0*^t^'*^h0^f^^''BM^'*T'^*^*rP 

^^7^ is 5i3'pp 3';:3i4M^^^iflpMivC^Hii^> 
4^jMMw> »'i"w roip P' pPi* 07 7r^i dsxppp 63'pi7j)r 




JlP Opi Pifr JUP» JU J»Ppip I'frlTC p'SIOP'PJipS plirpi DP'7J33 '' 

f7t'3i»O3'J"'UI0WlH7Ppi7p('3DlP'6p!a'l'»i»QpfrJP» 

tPlP»70;p;)ftppj)33'r*3DlilPll'J')3PpJ'5P7P^»7Pfri37tp'lJI 

'm prp ri*p3 3Cr' 7pfep 0P'i»pPCPi 3cr f iP 1P73 pi7ppnH 

isij CPP-C»ll* ("i^ Jpi'W flPT73Dt7p5i lil'frpP3"377p(» ' 
JWUB^aiiWmip OI>P 'lPJitPP3> 37 7P^ P7rp>37 7P^ f)?J <3>li 

yiw>niii^i>lii \Vm^^mt^^mm^m» 

^MJ^ggW I m^i Y lllP ■l«i*y4 ^>i»J^|i— ^»»p 



■H 



VfV 



airrrft 

WirP3'77^fr o ' 

wij oj'Pipi^ti^ ppppn'> i'j')'73i|5 pPt;pj'jjp'73D:j pPS' 
lanr jit fnpii n'»p 

•PpAlPJJ? 



BrDPJ»'i2>i 3'J'37^P'73 i"j)3'CP7[frn!^Mlw4«iwrt5T 

pipp D3?3 "jip 7P33r lJp fr7PP 37 7pfrl ifnp IPJ) USCPI I7aP 
frPin3CI7pP7ph '('7J^P fcip Dppi ^7/" P7ffr ifrlT J'7i 

i p Vu iiip r ■ rft' i nTf oiw iDi3P37 rspi 0'7pi^oppQp :>v3 

' «*dW is ^iPin3PI7pP 0pi7p)l| 

4iat>WN>MpHMMMW^W 



J'Sl ;5^( 7'Jn D33 c oils 3?rp 'il COSP 'i 7p/i;c Pir lit 3Prl 

y»r>r~i 'ppS I'lpi i^J' 7'P P71PP p^ri 7p^^c p7(P f>if'pf>t 
f>vi i3":j>'7p6 6110 nf»'pf'»*"33i<**W*i»^wf*»»^wi» 

S 

i3113P» 



-,_, „, ,^- , iiBf'!?7^P/'Pfr37i> 

t^j^^^tU^VeP ';'CPP7Pf'DC^i:*^n3B7pP'5pi i J3I73;*C3 O■irJpl^l7^D'P^0Toi^J^CD"D7^pt(JD^■37t5P:l7i 
)7P7I> 'P>P^ 7P^3p:4M^hMiariqNlffM|lM*F ivP')n36'^pPDpiV)f>jn^ pri3P.Dpi 1^^13)73 7i:F30'i37l3P 

'i( sipp t^iPiVpj)7 pw tplipwpp ;'3» jmr^"'"r'T-' o'MppWf" ' "~ " 

**■ " qpi7pP^p7)p3JpDP'PJi^iU 



jcp'p.frp'jjs i^fp'^pfrii^ [fprp npp ifr ifpsc'piii dti37 o;pi& 

IBP PTPpi'isi t7Dp'ttpl3'0PI'7Pf3PW*PP'PPP7*PJJPJCI^ 
-pijJ^CW t707';^?pi5 vi J3*W5' W 7P? IP'J'' 0'*'* 'V' 



' '^fi^ir n 'j u'rn if aw n \ \ t ^ \ i'' \\ i 1 1 '' i" ^"^^*^^^ 

» ;|l,J i^ il il i y j |' l.t iy j P^P '3M3f P^r 7*JP 0S3 C Ofls PPPJpP 'fr 
^yyW^^tftif j IJ ji^jripi^'WW> ^«HW^^W^^'1^|W 'i> 



Censored pa^e oi Yalkut Snimeoni 
Bragadini, Venice, 1566 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

We shall now be compelled to give some at- 
tention to a judicial opinion written by a sixteenth 
century rabbi and fortified by a goodly show of 
knowledge of Jewish law. Judicial opinions at 
best are dull reading except for lawyers, and even 
the giant intellect and literary style of a Mansfield 
or a Marshall can not successfully woo the wan- 
dering attention of the untrained reader. To 
expect patience with the technical lucubrations of 
Rabbi Moses Isserles of Cracow is probably asking 
too much. According to the opinion of Rabbi 
Moses* the matter presented the following diffi- 
culty: A Jew and non-Jew in partnership printed 
a book; a Christian rival printed another edition 
of the same book at the same time for the purpose 
of ruining the first printers. Although the dispute 
arose between two Christian printing houses the 
real sufferer was the Jew whose entire fortune was 
invested in this enterprise. He could obtain no 
redress against the Christian in the Venetian 
Courts, and the Jewish Courts could not assume 
jurisdiction. Here apparently was a wrong with- 
out a remedy. If the parties were both Jews the 
procedure would have been clear; for Jewish law 
does not permit this kind of business rivalry and 
malicious interference, and its mandate would have 
issued to restrain the second printer from printing 
his book, or if already printed from selling it until 
the edition of the first printer was exhausted. In 
this case the only remedy that could be applied by 

* Responsa No. 10. 

[258] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

the rabbinical court of Rabbi Moses Isserles was 
the indirect one of enjoining all Jews under pain 
of excommunication (Herem) , from purchasing the 
books of Giustiniani. Rabbi Moses seems to have 
given no thought to the danger of arousing the 
animosity and inviting the retaliation of the proud 
and powerful Giustiniani, but he did dwell on a 
possible danger to the spread of Jewish literature, 
by Giustiniani's withdrawal from the field. How- 
ever he comforted himself with the reflection that 
after all the question was merely one of business, 
and that as the printers made and sold books just 
as others made and sold other merchandise, for 
their own profit, the defeated party would seek to 
make up in another enterprise what he might 
lose in this, and would continue to print Hebrew 
books as theretofore. Strongly convinced of the 
justice of Rabbi Meir's cause Rabbi Moses had 
regard only to the law, and gave no thought what- 
ever to the real danger, the possibility of arousing 
the interest of the ever watchful ecclesiastical 
authorities and again directing their attention to 
Hebrew books, a danger that the experience of 
many generations should have made an ever 
present factor in the consideration of every ques- 
tion, and that might have suggested itself to an 
older and more experienced man. 

The opinion of Rabbi Moses written August 
16 1550 was the fire brand that started the con- 
flagration that destroyed thousands of Hebrew 
books. Although it is quite possible that the 

[259] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

papal decrees might have been issued even if the 
Venetian printers had not quarrelled, we must 
take our facts as we find them, and come to the 
conclusion that the ill-considered act of Rabbi Meir 
of Padua, in appealing to Rabbi Moses of Cracow 
to establish his monopoly in the sale of "The 
Strong Hand" of Maimonides was in great measure 
responsible for this far-reaching result. In those 
days as in all times the leaders of the Jewish com- 
munities were under sacred obligation to take heed 
of the ancient dictum, "Wise men be ye cautious 
with your words." The times were perilous. 
The devoted little groups of Jews scattered among 
the followers of a hostile faith, cowering in their 
Ghettos always scanning the political and ecclesias- 
tical horizon for signs of storm, had need of wise 
leadership and a cautious crafty policy. Their 
very lives depended on the word, their property 
on the mood, of some potentate. The Pope's 
favor, like that of all princes, was never to be 
relied on. Ecclesiastical politics played with the 
sentiments of justice and mercy as the needs of 
the game of statecraft required. What one pope 
gave another might take away, and there was no 
assurance to the Jews that even the same pope 
would always be of the same mind. Their rights 
were guaranteed to them by long parchments with 
papal and royal seals, but where was the court of 
justice in which these rights could be enforced? 
Nothing but a sense of justice or considerations of 
policy could insure respect by the pope for privi- 

[260] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

leges dearly purchased from some predecessor in 
the chair of St. Peter. 

It seems strange that an Italian rabbi familiar 
with this system of statecraft, should have failed 
to foresee the result of antagonizing a Venetian 
patrician ; or perhaps Rabbi Meir believed himself 
and the Jews protected by his Christian partner 
Bragadini from the suspicion of hurting the Chris- 
tian. Perhaps he was lulled into a false sense of 
security by the disposition of the reigning pontiff 
Julius III, who began his career with strong marks 
of favor to the Jews and who seemed to promise 
a return of the good days of Leo X Clement VII 
and Paul III. Perhaps he was thinking only of 
his whole fortune invested in an enterprise threat- 
ened with ruin. 

The publication of this opinion was a serious 
blow to the business of Giustiniani but his revenge 
was quick and sure. If Bragadini could obtain a 
rabbinical opinion against his books, why should 
he not obtain a papal opinion condemning those of 
his rival? As he himself had published "The 
Strong Hand" he could only hope to attack his 
rival through Rabbi Meir's notes which might be 
found to contain matter objectionable to godly 
churchmen. For this pious work of denunciation 
apostate Jews were always at hand, glad of an 
opportunity to use their knowledge of Hebrew to 
show their newly-born Christian zeal. What 
Giustiniani could do Bragadini could also do, and 
soon the cause of the Hebrew books was being 

[261] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

represented at Rome by two sets of bribed apos- 
tates, working with fierce denunciation, heaping 
lie upon lie, calumny upon calumny, for the greater 
glory of God and the fees of their Venetian patrons. 
Joseph Ha-Cohen in his chronicle appropriately 
called the "Vale of Tears," has made known to us 
the names of the three Roman apostates * "of 
these slanderers who are among those who troubled 
us, Hananel di Folignof Joseph Moro and Solomon 
Romano.J Oh, Lord, may their names be blotted 
out, and on the day of wrath deal Thou with them." 
The case dragged through the official channels 
of the pontifical courts without reaching any 
decision. In the meantime Giustiniani's business 
fell oiif to such an extent that in 1552 his presses, 
which had been in operation since 1545, stopped 
entirely. Although one of the parties to the cause 
had thus practically withdrawn, the matter was 
far from being at an end and what had been merely 
a business quarrel between Venetian printers had, 
by the holy zeal of the apostates at Rome, devel- 
oped into a general attack on the Talmud and the 
rabbinical writings. "The calumniator speaks in 
Rome and kills in Syria." The slanderers worked 
at Rome, and lo in a short time Hebrew books 
were consumed in the flames of a hundred fires in 

* Emek Habacha. ed. Letteris p. 111. 

t Supposed to be Rafaele Aquiline, author of several anti- Jewish 
books. Jew. Enc. 2 : 38. 

t This Solomon Romano is said to be the same as Vittorio Eliano 
the grandson of Elijah Levita (Vogelstein & Rieger 2: 146) or, what 
seems to be the better opinion, his brother Giovannni Battista (Jew. 
Enc. 2 : 500; Berliner 2 : 107). 

[262] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

all the market places of Italy. Both of the original 
parties to the quarrel went under in the fight, 
Giustiniani in 1552 * and Bragadini in 1554. 
When in that year the long expected blow fell, a 
general decree of confiscation of Hebrew books 
was enforced throughout the greater part of Italy 
and the Hebrew press at Venice was silenced for 
a period of nine years.f 

None of the parties interested in the original 
dispute between the rival houses of Giustiniani and 
Bragadini had any intimation of its far-reaching 
effect. The apostate calumniators of the Hebrew 
books had a free field at Rome, and the strong 
support of the Dominican monks, who were then 
as ever during the century-long battle for the 
emancipation of thought the strongest foes of all 
theological opinion other than their own. They 
levelled against the Talmud the old old charges 
that had been made and refuted time and again. 
The Vatican archives contained many Bulls and 
Edicts that ought to have settled the question 
without further investigation, for Rome above all 
places should have respected the maxim "Stand 
by the decisions." But the darkened intellect of 
the Dominicans was unable to see in the Talmud 
and its commentaries anything but literature 
inimical to their Christianity, and in response to 
their persistent agitation for its suppression a new 

* In 1574 another Giustiniani, Antonio, was tried for press offenses 
by the Inquisition. Brown "Yen. Print. Press" App. VII. 

t All Venetian Hebrew presses stopped 15SS-1S63; Steinschneider 
Cat. Bodl. No. 174. 

[263] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

committee of Cardinals was appointed to conduct 
an examination of the evidence submitted by the 
Jewish apostates. The situation was practically 
controlled by the chairman of the committee the 
fierce reactionary Cardinal Carafifa, who was soon 
to ascend the throne as Pope Paul IV. In accord 
with his vigorous policy and his passion for in- 
quisition, the committee reported in favor of the 
destruction of the Talmud, thus, in the bitter 
words of Andrea Masio the well-known Christian 
Hebraist, rendering "an opinion on the value of 
colors after their eyes had been blinded by per- 
fidious calumny." 

An independent judgment on the merits of the 
case was impossible to these Cardinals, for they 
were ignorant of the books they had condemned. 
There were some members of the Sacred College, 
notably Cardinals Pighinus and Marcellus (the 
latter subsequently pope) who voted against the 
decree of confiscation of the Talmud, but the great 
majority of them "gave too much credence to the 
baptized Jews." Let us hear the voice of the 
Christian scholar Masio.* In a letter to his 
friend Cardinal Pighinus he speaks his mind fully 
and without equivocation, and before the bar of 
his judgment the College of Cardinals stands con- 
victed of ignorance and folly. "At the complaint 
of two men filled with zeal and greed (the printers 
Giustiniani and Bragadini) and acting upon the 
information of two Jewish Christians, if indeed 

* Perles "Beitraege" p. 223. Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 147. 
[264] 




PAyrVS > TV ' PAEA » TSTEAPOnTATSHAS > 



- jrff^vj^.V-i-'.ii ^ tP" 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

they are worthy of the name, hired by these rival 
book sellers, you (the College of Cardinals) have 
to the eternal shame of the Apostolic See and to 
the detriment of Christianity rendered a hasty 
judgment. You are absolutely blind in this 
matter, for not one of you has ever read even a 
single word of these commentaries that you have 
condemned. I therefore deem it my duty toward 
you and toward the entire College of Cardinals to 
say that you ought not to give credence to the 
statements of baptized Jews concerning the affairs 
of the Jews, for there are no more jealous men nor 
any more intent upon unworthy gain than these. 
I dare take an oath that the two men, the apostates 
whom you have as I am told made judges over 
God knows what books, have accepted bribes not 
only from the one side but from both in payment 
of their false testimony." Words echoed by 
Cardinal Ganganelli in 1759, "Among such Jewish 
neophites there exists as a rule a certain vehemence 
against their own people which frequently leads 
them beyond the boundaries of truth."* But the 
protest of Masio was too late. 

On August 12, 1553, the pope issued a BuUf 
directing the confiscation and burning of both 

* Berliner "Gutachten" p. 21. 

t This Bull is no longer in existence. It is cited in another issued 
29 May, 1SS4 "Cum sicut nuper accepimus licet alias fratres nostri 
haereticae pravitatis in universa republica Christiana inquisitores 
generales certum Hebraicorum librorum volumen Ghemarot Thalinud 
nuncupatum, orthodoxae fidei offendentia continens de raandato nostro 
damnaverint et igne comburi fecerint nihilominus inter eos Hebraeos 
adhuc esse dicuntur diversi libri, etc." Graetz 9 : 346. 

[266] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

the Palestinian and the Babylonian Talmuds. 
All Jews were ordered on pain of confiscation of 
all their property to deliver up their copies of 
these books, and all Christians were forbidden to 
read them possess them or assist Jews in writing 
or printing them. Cardinal Caraffa stood behind 
this decree and hastened its execution. In all the 
streets inhabited by the Jews appeared the fa- 
miliars of the Holy Office, the dread minions of the 
Inquisition. Along the Tiber in what was soon 
to become the Ghetto up toward the Campo di 
Fiori, through the Rione Campitelli lying at the 
foot of the Palatine hill, across the Tiber among 
the crooked streets and lanes of Trastevere, the 
black robed Inquisitors led their eager police 
amidst cries of horror and protest. Houses were 
searched property destroyed all privacy abused in 
the search for the hiding places for Talmudic 
works; and although many copies escaped the 
eyes of the Inquisitors, the plunder was very great.* 
On September 9, 1553, (Rosh Hashanah) all these 
printed books and manuscripts were carted to the 
Campo di Fiori and, on the very spot where forty- 
seven years later Giordano Bruno was to suffer at 
the stake for his heresy, they were burned "amidst 
the cries and applause of the populace" while the 
Jews of Rome in their synagogues on this New 
Year's Day wept "for the burning which the 
enemies of the Lord had caused."! 

* Popper p. 31. 

t Berliner "Censur" p. 3; Reusch "Index" 1:47. See also 
Zemah David, ad an. 1SS4; Shalshelet Hakkabalah, end. 

[267] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Now that the work had been so well done in 
Rome, Cardinal Caraffa and his committee turned 
their attention to other cities. The decree spread 
like wildfire through Italy, and within a month 
the blaze of burning books ascended from the 
public squares of Bologna Ravenna Mantua, 
Ferrara and the entire Romagna. In Venice 
which had sown the seeds from which this universal 
disaster sprung the fruit was most bitter. Here 
the execution of the decree was left to the Execu- 
tors against Blasphemy (essecutori contra la 
Blastema). On October 21 the Council of Ten, 
that "evasive dark inscrutable body" that con- 
trolled the destinies of Venice, published a decree 
that in the opinion of Masio exceeded even the 
harshness of the original papal edict. It ordered 
the confiscation and burning within ten days of 
all copies of the Talmud, as well as "all compen- 
diums summaries or other books depending on said 
Talmud;" and the severest penalties were threat- 
ened for any disobedience to this order or evasion 
of its strict execution. Then arose the question 
what books could be considered compendiums 
summaries and books depending on the Talmud.* 
Another apostate, Eleazar ben Raphael main- 
tained that these several heads practically included 
the entire Jewish literature, and that the decree 
could be properly executed only by destroying all 
Hebrew books in existence, and "they stretched 
forth their hands to the very Scrolls of the Law in 

* Popper p. 34, 35. 

[268] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

the Ark, but the leaders of the congregation arose 
and stood in the breach and saved them from their 
hands." The zeal of the apostate carried him too 
far. The pleadings of the Jewish congregation 
raised doubts in the minds of the "Executors 
against Blasphemy" as to the correctness of the 
apostate's opinion. The men who sat in judg- 
ment in this case were Venetian patricians whose 
self-respect compelled them to assume an attitude 
of fairness, and the arguments and reasons urged 
against Eleazar's opinion finally bore fruit. The 
"Executors against Blasphemy" in order to secure 
additional expert information appointed a com- 
mittee of three, who defined the terms "com- 
pendiums summaries and books depending on the 
Talmud," in a manner that betrayed no desire to 
extend the terms beyond their proper meaning, 
whereupon the decree was promptly carried into 
execution.* 

Among the sufferers in Venice was Rabbi Judah 
di Lerma who in the second edition of his "Bread 
of Judah" (Lehem Yehudah) says: "I printed my 
book in Venice and in the beginning of the year 
5314 (1553) the powers at Rome decreed that 
throughout Christendom the Talmud and its 
commentaries should be burned. In the month 
of Marheshvan (October) they decreed at Venice 
that on a Sabbath day the Talmud together with 
its commentaries the codes of Alfasi and the books 
of the Mishnah should be burned together. 

* Popper p. 35. 

[269] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Among these they burned the entire edition that 
I had printed fifteen hundred books, and thus I 
lost all that I had in Venice and there remained 
unto me not even a single leaf as a memorial. 
I proceeded to rewrite the book from memory, 
but after I had written three chapters I found one 
copy of the edition in the hands of some Christians 
who had plucked it from the fire, and I bought it 
from them for much money." * 

Andrea Masio also suffered from this confisca- 
tion. While living in Rome he had purchased 
from Daniel Bomberg at Venice a set of his edition 
of the Talmud, which he had left in Bomberg's 
possession until he should return to Germany. 
In the meantime Bomberg died, and the books 
which had come into the hands of his agent and 
executor Johannes Remalinus were seized and 
ordered to be burned together with the books 
taken from the Jews. Through the intercession of 
influential friends and upon the just plea that it 
was against all morals and law to destroy them 
since Bomberg had printed these books with the 
express sanction of the Pope the Emperor and the 
Signoria, Remalinus succeeded in gaining a respite, 
and the books were ordered into custody until a 
final decision could be rendered at Rome. When 
the news of this seizure reached Masio in his 
retreat at Kloster Weingarten, he wrote appealing 
letters to his friends Cardinal Pighinus at Rome 
the Venetian Ambassador at the Imperial Court 

* Emek Habacha ed. Wiener p. 208. 
[270] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

and the Elector Palatine Frederick II * but all 
in vain; his books seem to have met the common 
fate. In a subsequent letter to a prelate at Rome 
he says that the mere loss of money although 
great was of much less importance to him, than 
the shame of "this most godless sacrilege that was 
performed by the leading men of our faith to our 
eternal disgrace in the eyes of posterity." As to 
the Signoria of Venice this body of practical 
gentlemen from whose commercial instinct and 
cosmopolitanism better things might have been 
expected, Masio says in another letter, "Your 
wise Senate who ought rather to have laughed at 
that stupid contemptible decree than to have 
countenanced it, did immediately after the receipt 
of this papal decree exceed even this Roman im- 
piety, for that is the proper name for it." 

In spite of great influence brought to bear by 
scholars and liberal men the decree could not be 
averted. The Jews themselves made herculean 
efforts to save their books; the leaders of their 
community at Rome appeared before the pope 
and despite the opposition of Carafifa himself and 
his apostate advisers defended their books so well 
that on May 29 1554 the pope probably induced 
by Cardinal Sacristo who as a Hebrew scholar was 
opposed to the destruction of the Hebrew books, 
issued a Bull which was intended to modify the 
severity of his earlier edict.f This Bull directed 



* Perles "Beitraege" 223. 
t Popper p. 38. 



[271 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

that within four months all Hebrew books should 
be delivered up for examination to ascertain which 
of them contained attacks on Christianity. The 
Jewish communities felt the danger that lurked in 
this new decree, -for it was now possible for the 
enemies of the Jews to argue that the pope in- 
tended to condemn not merely the Talmud and 
its commentaries, but all Hebrew books in which 
anti-Christian sentiments might be found, for 
every Hebrew book expresses or implies the unity 
of God, and is anti-Christian because anti-Trini- 
tarian. Their feeling towards Pope Julius III 
who had begun his pontificate with sentiments 
that led the Jewish communities to compare him 
with his milder predecessors, is reflected in this 
outburst of Joseph Ha-Cohen, "Break out in joy, 
oh ye mountains, for Pope Julius di Monte who 
wished to lead us to apostasy and who ordered 
our glorious books to be burned died on the 21st 
day of March in the year 5315 (1555). Oh God 
Lord of the spirit of all flesh, may his worm never 
die and his fire never be quenched and may he be 
an abhorrence unto all mankind." This violent 
outburst of hatred was the legitimate reflex of 
such Christian love as was extended to the people 
of Israel. 

No attempt can now be made to tell the whole 
story of the confiscation of Hebrew books in Italy. 
In every city similar scenes were enacted with 
variations depending upon the temper the good 
nature or the cupidity of local administrators and 

[272] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

ecclesiastical officials. While priests in their offi- 
cial robes marched in procession, holding up to the 
people boxes of dry bones as things worthy of their 
worship, the fires kindled by their followers were 
consuming the precious distillation of two thousand 
years of living imperishable intellect.* 

BOOKS PRINTED AT PRESS OF MARC ANTONIO 
GIUSTINIANI.f 

1545 Piske Recanati 
Zebah Pesah 
Seder 01am 

Nahmanides, Comm. on Pentateuch 
Iggerot Rambam 
Abodat Halevi 

Responsa of Solomon b. Adret 
Halakhot Gedolot 
Seder TefiUot (German rite) 
" (Roman rite) 

1546 Terumat Hadeshen 

Shulhan Arba : 

En Yaakob 

Zeror Hamor 

Otiot di Rabbi Akiba 

Midrash Rabba 

Agur 

* Dr. Berliner states that at his first visit to Rome in 1873 he did 
not find a single copy of a Talmudic treatise of early editions among 
the people. But splendid specimens were preserved in the Vatican 
and Casanate libraries. "Censur" p. 8 note. 

t See Ersch & Gruber 44; Z. H. B. 9 : 152, 61; Jew. Enc. 1 : 190; 
Rabb. "Maamar" 41-42. 

[273] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1546 Talmud Babli Berakhot 
Mishnah Zeraim 

Taharot 
Abot 
" Kodashim 

1547 Derashot of Shem Tob 
Kolbo 

TefiUot (Roman rite) 
Abudarham 

Pentateuch & commentaries 
Talmud Babli Eduyot 
Mishnah Moed 
" Nezikin 
Nashim 
Talmud Babli Bezah 

1548 " " Rosh Hashana 
" " Taanit 

" Ketubot 
" " Baba Kamma 

" Baba Mezia 
" Baba Batra 
Ohel Moed 

1549 Talmud Babli Hagigah 

" Moed Katon 
" " Sukkah 

" Megillah 
" " Yebamot 

" " Sanhedrin 

" " Shebuot 

1550 " " Shabbat 
" " Erubin 



[274] 



GIUSTINIANI AND BRAGADINI 

1550 Talmud Babli Pessahim 
" Yoma 
" Shekalim 
" Kiddushin 
" Gittin 
" Sotah 
" Makkot 
" Aboda Zara 
" Hullin 
" Bekhorot 
" Erakhin 
" Keritut 
" " Temurah 

" Meila 
" Kinnin 
" Tamid 
" Middot 

" Semahot, Kalla, Sofer- 
im Derekh Erez 
Rabba ve Zutta 
Abot d' Rabbi Na- 
than 
Millat Hahigayon 
Yad Hahazakah 
1551 Talmud Babli Nedarim 
" Nazir 
" Horayot 
" " Zebahim 

" Menahot 
" Niddah 
Orah Hayyim 

[275] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

1551 Pentateuch with Latin translation 
Bedikot of Jacob Weil 

Degel Ahabah 

1552 Bible 4to. 
Bible 16mo. 
Later Prophets 
Megillat Sefer 
Lakol Hefez 
Frauenbuechlein 



[276] 



CHAPTER XII. 
FERRARA, SABBIONETA AND RIVA DI TRENTO. 

The Jews of Ferrara — The Abrabanelli — Samuel ibn 
Askarah — The Family of the Usque — Abraham Usque and 
the "Ferrara Bible" — Samuel Usque the Poet — The Jewish 
Congress at Ferrara, and Its Decree Concerning the Hebrew 
Press — Tobia Foa of Sabbioneta — The Personnel of His 
Press — An Attempt to Reprint the Talmud — The Fame of 
the Sabbioneta Press — Rabbi Joseph Ottolenghi, Dr. Jacob 
Marcaria and Cardinal Madrucci at Riva di Trento — 
Renaissance and Reaction — The Cardinal's Patronage of the 
Hebrew Press — His Reputed Heresy. 

WHILE events were leading to Pope Julius 
Ill's decree there was a sudden outburst of 
activity in Hebrew typography in Northern Italy, 
and when the presses of Venice came to a standstill, 
the presses of Mantua Ferrara Sabbioneta Cremona 
and Riva di Trento nullified the decrees of Pope 
and Signoria. 

Seventy-five years had passed since Abraham 
the Dyer had printed at Ferrara in the days of 
Ercole I. Now another Ercole was reigning, who 
preserved the traditional policy of heeding the 
interests of his State more than the wishes of the 
Pope. A record of a hundred years of commercial 
expansion and artistic development had made 
Ferrara famous, and its liberal policy had attracted 
wandering Jews from Spain and Portugal as well 
as from less hospitable Italian States.* Strong 

* Ducal decree of 23 December 1SS5 permitting settlement of 
Spanish and Portuguese Jews in Ferrara printed by Sacchi p. 65. 

[277] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

rich and comparatively free from oppression, the 
Jews of Ferrara were at this time probably the 
leading Jewish community in Italy. When in 
1543 Rabbi Isaac Gunzburg conceived the plan 
of reprinting the Talmud it was in Ferrara that 
he attempted it, and when in 1554 a Rabbinical 
Congress was held to take counsel and action upon 
the state of the Jews of Italy it met in Ferrara. 
The community was headed by many noble old 
families of Italy, among them the sons and grand- 
sons of the noblest of them all Don Isaac Abrabanel 
that scholarly sad-faced wanderer who passes in 
tragic stateliness across the tear-stained pages of 
the history of the time. From Portugal to Spain 
across the sea to Naples again grasping the wan- 
derer's staff upon the fall of that city he traverses 
Italy and settles at Venice, and is finally called to 
his eternal rest in the city of Padua. The Jewish 
cemetery without the walls containing his grave 
has now disappeared, trampled into the common 
dust in the many wars that were fought around 
Padua.* 

In the year 1551 Samuel ibn Askarah Zarfati 
(the Frenchman), perhaps the same Samuel who 

* Of all the ancient houses of the Jews of Italy, that of the Abraban- 
elli boasted most ancient descent, even from the house of King David. 
"His children", says Mr. Howells, speaking of Don Isaac, in his enter- 
taining "Italian Journeys," "still abide in Ferrara; and it may have 
been one of his kingly line that kept the tempting antiquarian shop 
on the corner from which you turn up toward the library. I should 
think such a man would find a sort of melancholy solace in such a 
place; filled with broken and fragmentary glories of every kind, it 
would serve him for that chamber of desolation set apart in the houses 

[278] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

assisted at the second press at Rome in 1546, began 
to print Hebrew books at Ferrara. Perhaps 
Abraham Zarfati then professor at the University 
of Ferrara was a kinsman of this Samuel, and this 
holding of a professorship by a Jew may be another 
indication of the tolerance that made possible the 
establishment of a Hebrew press. Samuel printed 
six books among them a work on medicine another 
on the interpretation of dreams two on the laws 
of kosher slaughtering and two philosophical works, 
one of which entitled "Fountains of Salvation" by 
Don Isaac Abrabanel was the first book of this 
press, printed January 22 1551. The taste of 
Jewish readers was then as ever a broad one. 
Medical science was not always freed from tran- 
scendentalism and dream books furnished contribu- 
tions to therapeutics. Kosher food and philoso- 
phy were not deemed incompatible, and the good 
people of those days lived their lives without much 
regard for the opinion of their Christian neighbors, 
upon whom they looked with some justice as a 
race of oppressors among whom there occasionally 
appeared a generous king or duke, who lightened 
a little the yoke of the ever-enslaved Jew. 

At that time there were in Ferrara three men 

of Oriental Hebrews as a place to bewail themselves in; and, indeed, 
this idea may go far to explain the universal Israelitish fondness for 
dealing in relics and ruins." Mr. Howells, always charming and 
picturesque, need not be taken too seriously in his reflections upon the 
house of Abrabanel, in his excursus into Jewish psychology, and in 
his suggestion of that wretched, absurd, yet all too commonly believed 
"old clothes theory" of Jewish history. 

[279] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

bearing the name of Usque,* distinguished in three 
fields, — Abraham ibn Usque as printer, Samuel ibn 
Usque as chronicler and moralist, and Solomon ibn 
Usque as poet. It is with Abraham that we have 
specially to do, for he succeeded Samuel the French- 
man and carried on the press of Ferrara until the 
year 1558. Indeed it is not unhkely that he was the 
founder of the press that was carried on for a year 
or two in the name of Samuel ibn Askarah just as 
the press of Bomberg was for a time carried on by 
Cornelio Adelkind. Whether this be so or not, 
Abraham ibn Usque took over the types and 
Samuel Zarfati acted as his editor after 1552. 

Some time before 1550 Duarte Pinel a Catholic 
gentleman, found that his residence in Portugal 
was no longer possible, for he was suspected by 
some of his neighbors of being a Jew. The lives 
of suspected persons were never safe and no 
mere profession of faith nor even observance of 
all the ceremonies of the Catholic Church could 
save them from the hands of the priests and monks 
of the Inquisition. Duarte Pinel probably had a 
guilty conscience, and while taking communion as 
a good Catholic was made aware of watchful eyes 
under hood and cowl noting his manner and his 
actions. He finally concluded that life under the 
sword of Damocles was not worth living, and leav- 
ing his native place he sailed for Italy, where in 
the city of Ferrara he assumed his Jewish name 
of Abraham, openly attended the synagogue of his 

* Taken from the town of Huesca, in Spain, whence the family 
originally came. 

[280] 




Title page of *"" Honor of God 

Usque, Fcrrara, 1556 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

fathers and devoted himself to the spread of the 
literature of his ancient people which had long 
been proscribed in the land of his nativity. 

The motto that is entwined around his printer's 
mark taken from the 130th Psalm might well ex- 
press his thought when he was abiding in Portugal, 
waiting for the happy day when he might publicly 
avow the faith of his fathers: "I wait for the Lord; 
my soul doth wait, and in His word do I hope." 
His press produced many valuable books, especially 
works of philosophy and theology. He seems to 
have cared little for the sterner rabbinical and 
liturgical literature, or perhaps the times were 
happily so changed that his patrons could devote 
themselves to Jewish philosophy and belles lettres, 
instead of confining themselves as in more hopeless 
days to the liturgy of the synagogue and the special 
synagogal poetry of lamentation. His fine books 
are today much sought for and the title pages that 
decorate many of them testify to the artistic at- 
mosphere in which they were produced. He pre- 
served the memory of the seafaring prowess of his 
native Portugal in his printer's mark, where a 
globe encircled by the ecliptic and zodiacal marks 
is supported by an anchor. His initials A. U. 
defiantly seem to proclaim his release from the 
tyranny of the personality of the Duarte Pinel, 
whom he had shaken off. Once only does he use 
his old name, in the Spanish translation of the 
Pentateuch published in 1553 and dedicated to 
the Duke of Ferrara. 

[282] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

The influence of the double Hfe led by the 
Marranos, may be seen in a striking peculiarity of 
this edition of the Pentateuch. It is known as the 
Ferrara Bible and was published in one edition but 
in two differing forms, with different title pages 
and epigraphs and some variations in the text, 
the one apparently intended for Jewish and the 
other for Christian readers. The volumes in- 
tended for Christians were dedicated to the Duke 
of Ferrara, printed by Duarte Pinel the Portuguese, 
and published by Geronimo de Vargas the Spaniard ; 
those intended for Jews were dedicated to the 
illustrious Donna Gracia Mendesia Nasi and the 
printer becomes Abraham Usque the Portuguese, 
the publisher, Yomtob the son of Levi Athias the 
Spaniard.* This Donna Gracia is the famous 
kinswoman of Don Joseph Nasi, Duke of Naxos, 
and a member of that illustrious family whose 
picturesque career may be followed in Portugal 
Italy and the Orient. It was the eternal wan- 
dering of the landless nation pursued by the 
fury of an ever-watchful Church, that made 
the lives of the Jews so rich in experience so 
replete with incident so affecting in its pathos 
and sorrow. 

Abraham's kinsman Samuel ibn Usque, ex- 
pressed their sorrow in a book entitled "Consola- 
tion for the Tribulations of Israel"! which was 
printed at the press of Abraham in the same year as 

*Kayserling "Sephardim" 138; Graetz 9 -.333. 
t Consolagam, as tribulagoens de Ysrael. 

[283] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the Ferrara Bible.* This chronicle and martyrology 
was written in Spanish and takes its place beside 
the "Rod of Judah" of Solomon ibn Verga, and 
the "Vale of Tears" of Joseph Hacohen. It was 
dedicated to that noble Donna Gracia, whose life 
epitomized the woes of the exiles. She had given up 
wealth and noble station in Portugal in order to 
seek the liberty to be herself. Her wanderings 
from Portugal to the Netherlands thence to Venice 
and finally to Constantinople, always helping and 
protecting her weaker co-religionists, inspired the 
learned Solomon Usque. In considering her mis- 
fortunes and those of her people, the author found 
some consolation in the fact that the worst was 
over. "Memory," he says, "of past misfortunes 
eases the burden of present ones for oppressed 
souls, especially if the past misfortunes were more 
painful than those which must now be borne; 
and although one misfortune is a poor cure for 
another, nevertheless those excellent men who 
through their great wisdom have left us remedies 
for the trials of the soul, have recommended such 
remedies. . . . Therefore Socrates was accus- 
tomed to say that he 'who finds himself oppressed 
should compare the misfortunes that have passed 
with the present ones.'" And so the author in- 
troduces the Patriarch Jacob and the prophets 
Nahum and Zachariah under the names of Icabo 
Numeo and Zicareo, Jacob speaking for the en- 

*J. Steinschneider "Zur Geschichte judischer Martyrologien " 
in Festschrift zum X Stiftungsfest d. Akad. Ver. f . jud. Gesch. u. Lit. 

[284] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

tire people of Israel, the others offering him con- 
solation. 

When this book left the press of Abraham Usque 
on September 27 1553 the decree of confiscation 
of Hebrew books had already gone forth and the 
Talmud had already been burned in Rome. From 
all over Italy went up prayers and cries, and many 
were the fast days when the people prostrated 
themselves in their houses of prayer and called 
upon God to help them in their affliction. Even 
in Ferrara notwithstanding the liberality of its 
Duke the outburst of fanaticism following the 
ecclesiastical agitation bore fruit but the press of 
Abraham Usque was not interfered with and he 
continued apparently undisturbed until 1558 to 
print many Hebrew books. 

On June 21 1554 the leaders of the Jewish com- 
munities of Italy roused by the dangers of the de- 
cree of confiscation met in congress at Ferrara. 
Under the presidency of Rabbi Meir Katzen- 
ellenbogen of Padua, delegates from Rome Mantua 
Ferrara the Romagna Bologna Reggio Modena 
Padua and Venice met in the city of Ercole to 
take counsel concerning the welfare of the Jews 
of Italy. Among the many important matters 
discussed and agreed upon was the question of the 
publication of Hebrew books. It was the con- 
sensus of opinion that while as a rule the vindic- 
tiveness of the persecutor could not be shaken by 
argument or proof, it was necessary to avoid every 
possible appearance of offense to the dominant 

[2851 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

religion, so that at least milder Christians would 
be won over to the Jewish side by proof that no 
harm was intended to their faith. A great danger 
existed in the action of irresponsible Jews who in 
the happy freedom of authorship said and printed 
things for which the entire community was called 
to account. AH Jews were indeed then as now 
sureties for one another's good conduct; all had 
to suffer the consequences of the acts of each, and 
it was felt that some central authority should pro- 
tect the community against its members. The 
congress at Ferrara therefore decreed * "Printers 
shall not print any book not before printed with- 
out the license and approbation of three Rabbis 
ordained by three Rabbis, nor without the ap- 
probation of the heads of the congregation near 
to the place of publication, if the press be in a 
small town. If it be in a larger city then the 
approbation of the heads of the congregation of 
this city together with the said three ordained 
Rabbis shall suffice. The names of the Rabbis 
and heads of the congregations shall be stated in 
the preface of the book and without this no Jew 
shall buy such book under penalty of 25 scudi; 
the said 25 scudi gold to go to the charity fund of 
the domicile of the misdemeanant." 

The danger of attracting the attention of the 
Church was not exaggerated. Even the Bible was 
not safe from destruction at the hands of the min- 

* Tekanot Hakhamim ed. Isaac Baru'h Ha Levi of Ferrara 
Brody 1879. 

[286] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

ions of the Inquisition. Of the edition of the 
Pentateuch of 1555 printed by Abraham Usque 
only a few copies survive. One might have sup- 
posed that the book upon which the gospels of 
Christ were founded would have been respected 
by his worshippers, but ancient Inquisitors like 
modern "higher anti-Semites" destroyed the Old 
Testament while professing to uphold the New. 
The Inquisition knew everything, read everything 
stretched forth its hand to the confines of Chris- 
tendom. When in 1556 Abraham Usque pub- 
lished a poem by Jacob ben Elia di Fano, contain- 
ing satirical verses against women, it was soon 
brought to the attention of Cardinal Michele 
Ghislieri, who in a letter to the Duke of Ferrara 
ordered the punishment of the author and the 
printer and the burning of all copies of the book 
by the Vicar of the Archbishop of Ferrara.* For- 
tunately for Abraham Usque he had by that time 
given up his press, and we cannot tell whether the 
order of the Vatican was obeyed. The temper of 
the duke would probably have saved the printer 
from, too great punishment, for in those days the 
house of Este took orders from no one and more 
than once defied the Pope himself. 

Duke Ercole's fame as an independent sovereign 
went far and wide and when about ten years be- 
fore these events (1543) Rabbi Isaac Gunzburg, of 
the distinguished Suabian family of that name, 
conceived the plan of publishing a Talmud, he 

*J. Q. R. 10:447. 

[287] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

determined to send his printers down to Ferrara 
where the liberaHty of the duke promised success 
to his undertaking.* Following the general prac- 
tice of having a Jew and a Christian working to- 
gether at the press, Rabbi Isaac brought together 
the printers Paulus Emilius of Augsburg and 
Hayyim Schwarz of Prague. But after losing 
eight months' time and seventy gulden in money, 
Paulus withdrew from the undertaking, for the 
time was not yet ripe for a new edition of the 
Talmud in Italy. The forces of fanaticism and 
reaction were now dominant and even liberal 
Ferrara had to bow to the power of a militant 
Church. 

"The Hebrew Press at Sabbioneta," says De 
Rossi, t "an illustrious press estabhshed and flour- 
ishing under the patronage of Vespasian Gonzaga, 
added to his glory and gave unequivocal proof of 
the favor he accorded to the sciences and the arts." 
The town of Sabbioneta is, if the Jewish Encyclo- 
pedia is accurate, undistinguished in Jewish history 
except for a Hebrew press that flourished there 
between the years 1551 and 1559. The map of 
Italy published in the Jewish Encyclopedia and 
supposed to contain the names of all the cities 
of Italy that had Jewish communities does not 
show the name of Sabbioneta, and the guide books 
are silent as to this little town. However, it has 

* Perles "Beitraege" 172. 

t Annali Ebreo-Tipografici Di Sabb. sotto Vespasiano Gonzaga. 
Parma 1780 p. 3. 

[2881 




Title page of the Book of tLe Grievous Vision 
" The Partners," Sabbioneta, 1552 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

always had a more or less prosperous community of 
Jews, most distinguished among whom is the 
family of Foa, whose latest distinguished repre- 
sentative is the great Italian pathologist, Pio Foa. 
In the same year in which Abraham Usque es- 
tablished his press at Ferrara "on the new- moon 
of Sivan 5311 (May 6, 1551) the Lord stirred up 
the spirit of one of the leaders among the people of 
the God of Abraham, . . . Rabbi Tobia Foa, 
Tobia was his name and good (tobim) his deeds, 
for he established the press at Sabbioneta,"* as- 
sociated with Joseph ben Jacob Ashkenazi of 
Padua and others; and as at the press of Ferrara 
the first production was a book written by the 
distinguished Don Isaac Abrabanel. This book 
Merkebet Hamishneh bore in itself the seeds of the 
dissolution of the press, for Abrabanel partly as 
a result of his philosophical and theological views 
and partly as a result of his own persecution and 
suffering at the hands of Christians, had conceived 
profound contempt for the dogmas as well as the 
practices of Christianity. And here and there in 
his books may be found broad passages expressing 
his impatience with the theological absurdities and 
his hatred of the political pretensions of the 
dominant church. 

It must be remembered that the controversy 
raised by the contending claims of Giustiniani and 
Bragadini was then raging at Venice and Rome, 
and while the apostate hirelings of the quarreling 

* "Chronicles" of Joseph Ha Cohen ad an. 15S1. 
[290] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

printers were doing their best to secure the con- 
demnation of all Hebrew books by Papal decree, 
the publication of any book reflecting even re- 
motely upon the doctrines and dogmas of Chris- 
tianity was fraught with unusual danger. Al- 
though the presses at Sabbioneta pubHshed many 
books never before published in which certain as- 
pects of Christianity were treated with consider- 
able freedom, the decree of Pope Paul III. in 1553 
passed over this city without apparent effect. It 
is certainly a tribute to the liberality and culture 
of the ruling prince that the press flourished for a 
decade and then yielded only to irresistible pres- 
sure from Rome. 

No Hebrew press of the century was more 
fortunate in the number and quality of its workmen. 
The burden of the typographical work was borne 
by Cornelio Adelkind who was recognized as the 
most distinguished Hebrew printer in the world; 
Jacob of Gazolo whose work contributed much 
to the renown of the press at Mantua; Vicenzo 
Conti of Verona who subsequently established a 
notable press in the city of Cremona;* and Israel 
Zifroni one of those travelling workmen who not 
only worked at Mantua and Venice, but appears 
likewise as a printer at the press in Switzerland; 
the Rabbi of Ferrara Raphael ben Yohanan 
Treves acted as editor and proof-reader. Most of 

* Forty books were produced at the press of Conti with the as- 
sistance of many good craftsmen driven from their homes in other 
Italian cities, among them Hiyyah Meir b. David of Venice, Hayyim 
b. Samuel Gatinio and Abraham b. Kalonymos Pescarol. 

[291] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

the books that appeared at this press are pubhshed 
as the work of "the partners" and it is not unhkely 
that these were Foa, Adelkind, Joseph Ashkenazi 
of Padua and perhaps one or two patrons who 
assisted in furnishing the funds to carry on the 
work. Their printers' mark consisted of a pea- 
cock standing on a rock, a not unworthy emblem 
of their just pride in the excellence of their work. 
One of the earhest books pubhshed at this press 
was the "Guide of the Perplexed" by Maimonides, 
the finest and most perfect edition of this notable 
book, with three commentaries. Cornelio Adel- 
kind was the printer and probably this was the 
very edition which he had unsuccessfully attempted 
to induce his former patron Daniel Bomberg to 
print at Venice. 

It was to Sabbioneta that Judah di Lerma came 
in 1554 to print his "Bread of Judah" the first 
edition of which had been confiscated and burned 
at Venice, and it was here that the famous Chron- 
icle of Joseph Ha-Cohen "The Chronicles of the 
Kings of France and of Turkey" was first pubhshed 
about the year 1553. 

In the same year the proprietors of this press 
attempted the hazardous work of republishing the 
Talmud, and one Treatise saw the light; but the 
papal decree of that year made the further publi- 
cation of the Talmud in Italy an impossibility. 
The end of this press came in the year 1559 due 
as De Rossi intimates * to anti-Christian state- 

* Ann. Sabb. p. 7. 

[292] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

merits in some of their publications, which finally- 
brought down upon them the wrath of the church. 
A hint is given in a letter of one Marani, addressed 
to the reigning prince Vespasian Gonzaga and 
dated October 16 1574.* "I also wrote to you 
that Signor Ercole, (meaning the Duke of Ferrara), 
in his letter of the 24th ultimo from Rome charged 
me to inspect with diligence and secrecy the houses 
of the Jews of his dominion, to see whether they 




Printer's mark of " tke partners ' at Sabbioneta 

had prohibited books or presses, and to make a 
proper report sending it to Signor Alfonso his 
brother, because the report had to go subsequently 
into the hands of the cardinals and also of his 
Holiness. I do not know of the origin or final 
cause of this order, and therefore am proceeding 

* This letter was in the possession of padre Ireneo Afifo by whom 
it was shown to De Rossi, as stated by him in his Ann. Sabb. p. 6 and 
7, where a portion of the letter is reproduced. 

[293] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

cautiously." * Before its final cessation this press 
had contributed somewhat too the spread of 
Hebrew Hterature and the promotion of inter- 
course between Jews Hving in different parts of 
the world. Some of its books were published for 
export only.f notably a prayer-book intended 
primarily for German Jews living in the Turkish 
Empire, but also used by German Jews living in 
Italy. During the 15th and 16th centuries the 
influx of German Jews into Italy was very great 
and was one phase of the constant migration from 
land to land that has continued down to our day. 
Vicenzo Conti who had in the meantime es- 
tablished himself at Cremona,} came back to 
Sabbioneta in 1567 eight years after Foa had 
ceased printing, and published two or perhaps 
three books with which the press at Sabbioneta 
ends its labors in the cause of Hebrew letters. 
The eagerness with which Conti and Joseph ben 
Jacob of Mantua secured the types of Foa after 
the cessation of his press and the pride taken by 
the house of Bragadini in Venice fifty years later, 

* "Le scrissi anche, che il Sig. Hercole per sue di 24. del passato 
da Roma mi commisse, che con diligenza e secretezza dovesse veder 
per casa di questi hebrei del Stato si haveano o libri prohibiti, o in- 
stromenti da stampare libri, e del tutto in bona forma farni una rella- 
tione inviandola al Signer Alphonso suo fratello, perche dovea poi 
andar in mano de' Cardinali e anche di Sua Santita. lo non intendo 
rorigine,e causa finale di questo motto, perb si procedera oculataraente " 

De Rossi "Sabb." pp. 6-7. 

For further reference to the breaking up of this press see Ersch 
& Gruber, 46, note 93. 

t Berliner "Aus meiner Bibliothek," p. 67. 

J From which city he was ultimately obliged to depart. 

[294] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 



in advertising the fact that they pubHshed books 
"with letters of Sabbioneta,"* indicate the es- 
teem in which these pubHcations of the press were 
held, and the value of its name and good will. 
Its title pages were used by Di Gara in Venice and 



n")5» -lonD p'ls 




Printer's mark of Tobia Foa 
or Sabbioneta 

by Turkish publishers in Salonica. The printer's 
mark which Foa adopted for himself, a spreading 
palm tree bearing the shield of David with two 
rampant lions as supporters, all under a text from 
the Psalms, "The righteous shall flourish like a 
palm tree," was unfortunately in no sense pro- 
phetic of the fate of his press. 

* Bible 1615. 

[295] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Among the German immigrants into Italy dur- 
ing the end of the fifteenth or beginning of the 
sixteenth century was a family which came from 
the town of Ettlingen, who after a short residence 
in Italy modified their name into Ottolenghi. 
The last and most distinguished member of the 
family was General Joseph Ottolenghi, late Minis- 
ter of War and Commander-in-Chief of the Itahan 
armies * whose namesake and ancestor, Rabbi 
Joseph Ottolenghi of Cremona enters into the 
history of the Hebrew printing press as the as- 
sociate of Cardinal Christofolo Madrucci and Dr. 
Joseph Marcaria of Riva di Trento. The cardinal 
as patron,! the rabbi as editor and the physician 
as printer, established a notable press which in 
an active period of five years produced upwards 
of thirty books of value and importance. The 
rabbi was head of the rabbinical academy at 
Cremona and not only edited many of the books 
of the Riva press at the request of the cardinal 
but contributed a considerable part of his fortune 
toward the expense of their publication. J Dr. 
Jacob Marcaria the active member of the partner- 
ship, was a practicing physician at Riva who like 
so many of his profession was inspired by loyalty 
to his people and a deep-seated love for its litera- 
ture. Himself an author of some ability, he wrote 

* He was born in the little town of Sabbioneta. 

t The cardinal was not the printer as stated by Steinschneider, 
Ersch & Gruber 64; see H. B. 1 : 112. 

t Emek (ed. Wiener) p. 90; (ed. Letteris) p. 112; Nepi & Ghirondi 
p. 164. 

[296] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

prefaces to many of the books published at his 
press, and made himself so invaluable that with 
his death in 1562 the press of Riva came to a stand- 
still.* He seems also to have published Hebrew 
books and we know one of them, on the Council 
of Trent, written by Vincenzo Zannelli and dedi- 
cated to Cardinal Madrucci.f 

The most interesting personage connected with 
this press was the distinguished prince of the 
church whose coat of arms adorns many of the 
title pages of its books. Cardinal Madrucci was 
born of the noble Tyrolean family of Madruz, and 
after becoming Bishop of Trent and Prince Bishop 
of Brescia was created cardinal in 1542 by Pope 
Paul HI. The seat of his diocese was the city of 
Trent lying about twenty miles northeast of Riva, 
which had contained a flourishing Jewish com- 
munity for upwards of one hundred years until 
in 1475 the horrible charge of ritual murder was 
brought against it by the monk Bernadino da 
Feltre, and after an orgy of robbery and massacre 
in which the insulted Christian sentiment of the 
community expressed itself, the Jews of Trent 
were forever exiled from the city. How shall we 
account for the fact that so many eminent Catholic 
churchmen were deeply interested in the spread 

* See Carmoly "Riva" passim. 

t Full title as follows: — 

"De Concilio Tridentino et omnibus patribus in eo congregatis 
ad illustrissimum & reverendiss. principem & cardinalem Ludovicum 
Madrutium Vincentii Zannelli-Thausignani Archipresbyteri Sylva. 
RipaeTridentini: Apud Jacobum Marcoriae, 1563." Z. H. B. 10 : 94. 

[297] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

of Hebrew literature, notwithstanding that the 
Inquisition was constantly and consistently plotting 
and legislating for its destruction? 

With the accession of Pope Paul IV the In- 
quisition which had been gradually gaining in 
strength since the end of the fifteenth century, 
was established upon a firm and permanent basis 
in Italy.* No one was safe from its investiga- 
tions; knowledge science culture and the joys of 
life were put under its ban, and gloomy monasti- 
cism was made the ideal of human life. The 
beautiful gods of ancient Greece that had charmed 
the minds and elevated the tastes of men during 
the Renaissance, were now supplanted by images 
of the tortured Christ and his saints resurrected 
from the darkness of the Middle Ages. The Tal- 
mud and Hebrew books were proscribed and 
burned, and Christian printing presses were placed 
under a censorship that practically reduced them 
to the publication of only a single class of books. 

Under these conditions we find Cardinal Christo- 
folo Madrucci in 1558 founding and patronizing a 
Hebrew press at Riva di Trento. Among the Jews 
this fact must have been looked upon as nothing 
short of miraculous and when they saw the title 
pages of their law books and books of philosophy 
and devotion ornamented with the cardinal's 
coat-of-arms they must have believed that the 
universal redemption of the Jews was imminent 
and that the Messiah was about to appear. 

* For Paul IV. see Graetz 9: 347 &c. 
[298] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

Although Cardinal Madrucci was not the fore- 
runner of the Messiah he was a scholar and a 
gentleman. He was free from the prejudices of 
his more churchly brethren and belonged to that 
class of men who cultivated a philosophy of life 




Arms oi Cardinal Madrucci 
on title page of " Tunm , 
Marcaria, Riva di Trento, 1560 



that enabled them to preserve their serenity amidst 
scenes that must have shaken their very inmost 
being with pity and regret. The condition 
of the states of the Church in the middle of the 
sixteenth century was wretched beyond belief. 
Wherever the hand of the Church fell ruin fol- 
lowed ; prosperous cities like Ferrara passing from 
the rule of their own dukes and princes into the 

[299] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

hands of the Pope withered away as though a 
blight had struck them. Their inhabitants de- 
serted them; commerce and art disappeared, and 
the remnants of their communities consisted of 
priests monks diseased beggars and prostitutes. 
Amid such evidence of ecclesiastical misrule, 
gentlemen like Cardinal Madrucci occupied them- 
selves with such pursuits as suited their tastes and 
inclinations not through any indifference nor lack 
of sympathy, but because of the impossibility of 
making any change that would improve the con- 
dition of society and at the same time continue 
the rule of the church. It was not until a much 
later period when the cup of misery and degrada- 
tion was filled to overflowing, that forces arose 
that broke the iron rod that ruled in Italy and 
elsewhere and made of the head of the greatest of 
all world powers a recluse in the gardens of the 
Vatican. During the reign of Pope Paul IV, the 
difference between the princes of the church and 
its real rulers the monks of the so-called Holy 
Ofhce, the dreaded Inquisition, was so wide that 
in a list of heretics prepared at this time appear 
the names of thirteen cardinals and eleven bishops 
and archbishops. The heretic cardinals were 
Bembo, Badia, Contarini, Cortese, Di Fano, 
Fregoso, Pole, Simonetta, Sadoleto, Sacripante, 
Sfrondato, Madrucci and Morone.* It appears that 
no practical attempt was made to bring Madrucci to 
account and he died in 1578 in an odor of sanctity 

* Lanciani " Golden Days of the Renaissance at Rome " p. 208. 
[300] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

at the age of sixty-six.* Although this prince of 
the Church had pubHcly sanctioned the pubHca- 
tion of Hebrew books at Riva, the Inquisition 
which had suspected him of heresy naturally de- 
clined to recognize his imprimatur. There lies 
before me a copy of the "Toaliot" of Rabbi Levi 
ben Gerson, bearing the cardinal's name on the 
title page; here and there through its pages may 

*^ xh'-ci ri'SyiTN c'iB'ri") ixsna oin'c: t-i« im 

Censors' signatures on last page of loaliyot of Raloag 
Marcaria, Riva di Trento, 1560 

be seen the ink scrawls of the censors and on the 
last page are the signatures and dates showing 
that not only were the inquisitors dissatisfied with 
the cardinal's imprimatur, but so jealous of each 
other's orthodoxy that the book had to undergo 
four examinations to satisfy the theological idio- 

* Madrucci's intimate association with Sadoleto, Contarini and 
Pole justifies the thought that he understood the meaning of the 
Lutheran movement and was prepared to seek a via media between 
its heterodoxyand the policy of the church. (Brown "Studies" 2 : 111). 
A Tyrolese by birth, his knowledge of what was going on beyond the 
Alps might have saved the unity of the church had it not been for 
the blindness of the Italian and Spanish cardinals. 

[301] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

syncrasies of four servants of the Inquisition of 
equal standing, presumably of equal faith, and 
certainly of equal ignorance. 

BOOKS PRINTED AT FERRARA.* 
By Samuel Zarfati: — ■ 

1551 Ma'yene Hayeshuah 

1552 Behinat 01am 
Refuot Geviah 
Pitron Halomot 
Hilkhot Shehitah 
Hilkhot Hareah 

By Samuel Usque: — 

1553 Hosha'ot Lesuccot 

1554 Maamar Haahdut 
Yesod Haemunah 
Or Hahayim 
Hibbur Maasiyot 
Zedah Laderekh 
Meah Berakot 
Seder Maamadot f 

1555 Sefer Hazikkaron 
Pentateuch, Megillot & Haftarot 
Or Adonai 

1556 Sefer Naftulim 
Shaar Hagemul 
Sefer Ha-Emunot 
Kebod Elohim 
Shilte Hagibborim 

*See De Rossi "De typ. Hebr. Ferrariensi comm. Hist." 
t Ersch & Gruber 45. 

[302] 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

1556 Masaot of Benjamin of Tudela 
Likute Shikha 

Issur Vehetter 
Amarot Tehorot* 

1557 Hibbur Yafe Mehayeshuah 
Ben Hamelekh Vehanazir 
Hashagot of Moses Alaskar 

1558 Maarekhet Haelohut 
Mea Berakhot.f 

BOOKS PRINTED AT SABBIONETA.J 

1551 Merkebet Hamishneh 
Commentary on Ruth by Isaac b. 

Joseph Ha-Cohen 

1552 Hazut Kashah 

1553 Moreh Nebukhim 
Talmud BabU Kiddushin 
Arba Turim , 

1553(?)Dibre Hayamim lemalke Zarfat umalke 
bet Ottoman hatogar 

1554 Alfasi 

Simane kol shemoneh binyanim 
Shehitah ubedikah 
Lehem Yehudah 
Pardes Rimonim 
Responsa of Moses Alaskar 

* ? See Ersch & Gruber 45. 

tZ. H. B. 9: 152. 

t Some of the books unfinished at Sabbioneta were subsequently 
published at Mantua and Cremona. Cohn: Chron. Beitr. p. 8; Zunz 
Z. G. p. 2SS. 

[303] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1553-1555 


; 

Bible 


1556 


Psalms 




Minhagim 


1557 


Pentateuch and Megillot 




Ateret Zekenim 




Rashi on the Pentateuch 




Mahzor (German rite) 


1558 


Pentateuch and Megillot 




Canticles 




Psalms 


1559 


Mishnah 


1567 


Pirke d' Rabbi Eliezer 




Halikot 01am 




Zedah laderek 



BOOKS PRINTED AT RIVA DI TRENTO.* 

1558 Alfasi 
Toledot Yizhak 
Shaare Shebuot 
Shebile Emunah 
Minhagim 
Mordecai 

Hiddushim of R. Nissim (two editions) 
Berakhot of Meir of Rothenburg 
Simane vekizzure Ha Mordecai (two edi- 
tions) 

1559 Bahya on the Pentateuch 
Sefer Bar Sheshet 
Mishnah (two editions) 

*Carmoly "Annalen "; H. B. 7 : U3; 4 : 57. 
[3041 



FERRARA AND RIVA DI TRENTO 

1559 Iggeret Hamussar le Aristoteles 
Kizzure Ibn Roshd 

Kol Malakot Higayon 

1560 Toaliyot of Levi b. Gerson 
Massa Ge Hizayon 

Commentary on Megillot by Levi b. Gerson 
Dikduke Rashi 
Sefer Ibronot 
Milhamot Hashem 

1561 Haggadah shel Pesah 
Arba Turim 

Pentateuch (two editions) 
Shaare Orah 

Shaare Zedek 

Masseket Derek Erez upirke Ben Azai 

1562 Biurim of Isserlein 
Goren Nakon 
Meir lyyob (?) 



[305] 



CHAPTER XIII. 

CREMONA AND MANTUA. 

The Ghetto of Cremona — The Conflict of Authority be- 
tween the Civil and Ecclesiastical Authorities of Cremona — 
Cardinal Michele Ghislieri — The Seizure of Books at Cremona 
— Vicenzo Conti — Duke Guglielmo Gonzaga of Mantua and 
the Jews — Joseph Shalit, Meir the Scribe, Jacob of Gazolo — 
The Ruffinelli and Filliponi — The Printing of the Zohar — 
The Council of Trent and the Index — The Plague and the End 
of Meir the Scribe — The Zifroni — Eliezer d' Italia, Judah 
Samuel of Perugia and Son. 

IN the middle of the sixteenth century Cremona 
was the centre of Jewish learning in Northern 
Italy. Lying in the heart of Lombardy the city 
was topographically as it was spiritually the centre 
of a large number of Jewish communities within 
a radius of fifty miles. Eastward lay Mantua and 
Verona; northward Brescia Bergamo and Milan; 
westward Pavia and Piacenza; southward Reggio 
and Parma, while scattered within this region were 
many smaller towns distinguished as the dwelling 
places of Jews of renown — the towns of Guastalla 
Colorno Rivarolo Pizzighettone Pescarolo Codogno 
Marcaria and Castiglione. Somewhat to the 
north of Cremona lay the City of Soncino the 
birthplace of the most distinguished of Jewish 
printers and the cradle of his press. 

While everywhere the Jews were hiding their 
heads in fear of the Inquisition Cremona saw the 
establishment of a new centre for the spread of 

[306] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



Jewish learning the famous rabbinical academy of 
Joseph Ottolenghi* — and through the growth of 
her book-trade, took the place of Venice as the 
chief distributing centre for Hebrew books to all 
the world. 

From the windows of the municipal palace of 
Cremona one may see the great cathedral and its 
bell tower, beyond which lay the ancient Jewish 
quarter the Ghetto for several centuries the inno- 
cent cause of much turmoil and alarm. For many 
years the Jews had lived in happy obscurity in 
their Via Giudecca, ignored by the mitred prelates 
and black robed friars who passed and repassed in 
endless processions to the great cathedral. Oc- 
casional riots instigated by rogues intent on 
plunder or monks zealous in saving souls were 
promptly suppressed by the strong hand of the 
civil authorities, and until the middle of the six- 
teenth century the Jews of this city had compara- 
tively little to complain of. 

The city of Cremona at that time lay under 
the jurisdiction of the Senate of Milan and the 
entire ancient Duchy of Milan was an appanage 
of the Spanish crown, ruled by a royal governor 
the appointee of Philip II, that king whose cruel 
and bloodthirsty religious fanaticism exceeded that 
of any European monarch. In the Senate of 
Milan however and even among the Episcopal 
Vicars a milder religious sentiment prevailed, and 
it may very well be that herein was manifest the 

*Graetz9 :367; H. B. 5 : 125. 



[307 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

influence of the sometime Governor of Milan 
Cardinal Christofolo Madrucci. But a change 
came in 1553. For four years Pope Paul IV had 
been rigidly enforcing his predecessor's decree 
against the Talmud and everywhere the ofiicials 
of the Inquisition had confiscated and burned 
Hebrew books by the thousands. In Cremona 
however the final blow was for a short time de- 
layed by a conflict of authority between the civil 
and ecclesiastical officials. The attention of the 
authorities at Rome was attracted by the reason- 
able and at times even lenient interpretation of 
the rules of the Inquisition, and in a letter addressed 
to the Senate of Milan the Inquisitor General 
Cardinal Michele Ghislieri * complained that "in 
the city of Cremona there are some who have 
treated the authority of the Holy Apostolical 
Throne with contempt and have printed certain 
works commentaries etc. . . . called Talmud, 
although such works have been condemned by the 
Venerable College of Cardinals . . . and burned 
in Rome Venice and other places." And the 
Cardinal demanded that the Senate of Milan refer 
the matter to the Chief Inquisitor of Cremona in 
order that the decrees of the Inquisition might be 
strictly enforced. f The Senate directed the po- 
desta, the chief civil magistrate of the community, 

* Popper " Censorship" p. 43. 

t What had been done in former ages by the self-sacrificing zeal 
of the followers of the new religion of Christianity (Acts 19 19), 
had now become the established policy of the Christian Church in its 
efforts to bend the minds of men to its yoke. 

[308] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



to make the investigation, and in obedience to his 
summons Vicenzo Conti and Vittorio EUano 
awaited his pleasure in the municipal palace. No 
two men in Cremona could better answer the 
question about to be propounded to them: "Is 
the Talmud of the Jews being printed at Cremona?" 
for the one was the master of the Hebrew press 
established in 1556 at Cremona * and the other a 
learned Jewish apostate in his employ who was 
also reviser of Hebrew books for the Inquisition. f 
Vittorio Eliano's connection with the press of Conti 
no doubt induced him to give his employer the 
benefit of every reasonable doubt, and it was 
probably this laxity in the interpretation of the 
rules of the Inquisition that provoked the wrath 
of the Inquisitor General. Conti and Vittorio 
quickly satisfied the podesta that the Talmud was 
not being printed at Cremona, and that the copies 
in use among the Jews of that city were principally 
those of the Venice edition from the press of the 
late Daniel Romberg, which had until now escaped 
the general confiscation. Acting upon the report 

* Conti was born at Verona. Ersch & Gruber, 45. De Rossi 
Ann. p. 4, says that he was a native of Cremona. Fumagaili, p. 302 
says that Conti was a Jew. This does not seem to have been suspected 
by the bibliographers. Conti served his apprenticeship at the press 
of Foa in Sabbioneta, De Rossi "Ann. ebr. tip. di Cremona." He 
learned printing there in the style of Bomberg through association with 
Adelkind; see his Mibhar Hapeninim. 

t Every book had, of course, to be submitted to the authorities 
for examination and approval. Eben Bohen issued 1SS8 with privilege 
of the Episcopal Vicar Decio Alberio and the Vicar of the Inquisition 
Girolamo de Vercelli. 



[309; 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

of the podesta, the Senate of Milan notified the 
Inquisition at Rome that the charges made by the 
Inquisitor General were unfounded, and showed 
their independence by refusing to obey his order to 
confiscate and destroy the copies of the Talmud in 
use among the Jews of Cremona sustaining the 
objection made by the Jews to his order upon the 
ground that the decree of Julius III did not require 
the destruction of the books, but merely the 
elimination of passages that were deemed offensive 
to the Christian religion. It was therefore with a 
lighter heart that Vicenzo Conti and Vittorio 
Eliano went back to their shop to continue for a 
time undisturbed in their work. 

GhisHeri owed his position as Cardinal and 
Inquisitor General to Pope Paul IV, and as a 
member of the Sacred College, and subsequently 
when he was elevated to the throne as Pope Pius 
V, he proved himself the spiritual brother of that 
gloomy zealot in his policy of suppressing heresy 
by the iron hand of the Inquisition. In English 
history he will best be remembered as the Pope 
who aided and abetted Mary Stuart in her trea- 
sonable designs upon the crown of England and 
who excommunicated Queen Elizabeth. The story 
of his interference with the peace and happiness 
of the Jews of Cremona is a short, but significant 
chapter of his life's history. 

In the beginning of the year 1559, Pope Paul 
IV published the first index of prohibited books, 
"Index of authors and books against which each 

[3101 



to'jT q^^ 



cmpo r-iNi3 r-isci."i oyiczj'3>VK-\hpr-\-^y2tihvf:iT^i 

13T u-jo n"??! nonn u;3-in ='70 'jyi • 'ip::: viy^iol 
mmD nj3 ncK3 idikSd io/o k'?.' -ai "jj; iddkS-o -lauo 

unjtillD'jlKip DKOJ I]DD 3'3 l'7» D1313 — Jl^'NINr T,7N 

feiN ^lnn ririDS uip ■ o'lip U'V'ii nVsn icn 'sS ijirp 

nsnnniirt'? m isd yapinnnna'nrjjDnfenri-DinLs'?! 

■jDM' Kin Hv3 j'Jp i.'iJp' 'j 'i"Ki v~j> 'j;n' "i: "731 np 

Kin "li'K -HsiiipmoTia j'nD'i n;;' ino t'i'IU 

■ i'7j'n3 "ipsbi 'ri D;;ija nun"? 



ityp »;:'.'') 'j: 








Title page of Sefer Kentut 
Conti, Cremona, 1558 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



and every one in the whole Christian world is 
warned by the Holy and Universal Inquisition, 
together with the punishment decreed against 
those who read or possess books prohibited in the 
Bull 'In Coena Dominis,' and other punishments 
contained in various decrees of the Holy Office." 
A copy of the index was sent to Milan, but the 
Senate of that Duchy again exhibiting the extra- 
ordinary independence that had marked its action 
in other cases sent an address to the Royal Gov- 
ernor protesting against the injustice of permitting 
any individual — for thus the Senate spoke of 
Cardinal Ghislieri— to confiscate books that had 
been passed by the censor and permitted by the 
Inquisitors, especially such books as contained 
nothing against Christianity, indeed referred in 
no way to religion, and had been approved every- 
where by churchmen as furthering the spiritual 
welfare of mankind. This appeal evoked no im- 
mediate reply, but when the Jews of Cremona pro- 
tested to him that the demand of the Inquisitor 
for surrender of all copies of the Talmud was a clear 
violation of the law, the Governor ordered the 
podesta of Cremona to take possession of all the 
surrendered copies of the Talmud but to return 
all other Hebrew books to their owners and to 
prevent any further annoyance to the Jews. The 
Inquisitor answered boldness with boldness and 
refused to obey the order, and a serious clash be- 
tween Church and State seemed imminent. But 
the wily officers of the Inquisition, determined to 



[313] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

convert the Governor to their view, called to their 
aid the Dominican friars, who thereupon became, 
as the Chronicler Joseph Ha-Cohen pathetically 
says, "as thorns in the side of the Jews of Cre- 
mona." But the Governor was not moved by the 
appearance of pasquils demanding the death of 
the Jews * nor by charges of Talmudic blasphemies 
against Jesus and he repeated his order to return 
to the Jews all books not included in the Index. 
The Dominicans then seized upon this order as a 
pretext for the appointment of a new commission 
to determine which books were included in the 
Index, and the apostates, Vittorio Eliano and 
Joshua dei Cantori, were appointed on this com- 
mission.! As a result of their decision a number 
of books were seized and stored in the Dominican 
monastery and in token of apparent submission 
to the will of the constituted authorities, the keys 
of the monastery were delivered to the podesta. 
What other methods were used for the purpose of 
weakening the opposition of the Governor are not 
known, but he suddenly yielded to the importuni- 
ties of the Dominicans and directed the local 
authorities of Cremona, including the commander 
of the Spanish troops quartered in that city, to 
assist the Inquisitors in the search for forbidden 
books. When we consider that even the priests 
themselves were unable to read Hebrew, the bitter 
irony of the situation is made manifest, for to the 



*H. B. 1 :131. 
tH. B. 1 :131. 



[314] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



brutal and ignorant Spanish soldiers was left the 
task of assisting in the determination whether or 
not Hebrew books were among the classes forbid- 
den by the Index. Under the zealous leadership 
of Sixtus of Siena the soldiers tore the books from 
the houses of their owners; they broke into the 
shop of Conti and took all of his books, including 
a freshly printed edition of the Zohar, which had 
been edited by Vittorio Eliano himself. But here 
the religious zeal of Sixtus interfered and saved 
from the flames the Zohar, whose mystic pages 
were believed to hold confirmation of the dogmas 
of Christianity.* Another book, an edition of one 
thousand copies of a commentary on the Penta- 
teuch, known as the Ziyuni, after its author, Rabbi 
Menahem Ziyuni was seized and burned by the 
very Inquisitors who had just authorized its publi- 
cation. In all upwards of ten thousand Hebrew 
books were burned in the faithful city of Cremona. 
The very next year, the new Pope Pius IV, who 
had been Cardinal of Milan and was opposed to 
the ruthless policy of extermination inaugurated 
by the Jesuits and Dominicans, attempted to 
recompense Conti for his loss by permitting him 
to print a second edition of the Ziyuni. f 

Following this wholesale confiscation and des- 
truction a further search was made and every 
Hebrew volume submitted to the rigid censorship. 

* H. B. 1 : 112 ; Ersch & Gruber 46. 

t This book is notable for the first reference to Norway in Jewish 
literature page 66c. H. B. 11 : 137. 



[315] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

It is impossible to speak of all of the absurdities 
committed by the censors in the expurgation of 
Hebrew books. In the Safer Keritut, published 
by Conti, the word Talmud was deleted wherever 
it appeared, but time laughs at the Inquisition, and 
in the copies of this book now extant the censor's 
ink has faded and all of the deleted words are 
clearly legible. It can well be imagined that 
during this reign of inquisitorial terror at Cremona 
the life of the printer was scarcely a happy one, 
but with undiminished courage Conti continued 
his work for eight years. When in 1567 he aban- 
doned his work at Cremona * and returned to the 
town of Sabbioneta where he had long before served 
his apprenticeship, he found there under Prince 
Vespasian Gonzaga Colonna, an atmosphere free 
from persecution and misrule. Exultingly the 
printer writes in one of his colophons, "From 
Sionetta shall go forth the law," and on his title 
page appears as a printer's mark a picture of Her- 
cules strangling the dragon with the motto "At 
virtus superavit," emblematic of the historical fact, 
in his day a mere shadowy hope, of the destruction 
of the all devouring Inquisition by the uncon- 
querable strength of enlightenment. At Sab- 
bioneta he produced three books in 1567 and he 
then became a licensed printer at Piacenza.f 
Dying in 1570 he bequeathed his press to his sons 

* In 1597 there were only two Jewish families at Cremona, J. E. 
1 : 340. 

t Fumagalli 302. 

[316] 




WMi nDJp i5ri»:fii yhy 



Printers mark or Vicenzo Conti 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



who continued printing for many years but never 
entered the field of Hebrew typography, unless the 
Responsa of Nissim of Gerona published in 1586 
issued from their press.* An attempt was made 
by another Cremonese, Cristoforo Draconin to 
print Hebrew books, but after the publication of 
a single book with the aid of the Jewish printer 
Solomon ben Jacob Bueno f he desisted.^ 



LIST OF BOOKS PUBLISHED AT CREMONA, f 

1556 Toldot Adam 
Tashbatz 
Maalot Hamiddot 
Amude Golah 
Responsa of Jacob Levita 

1557 Rokeah 
Kizzur Mordecai 
Zebah Pesah 
Rosh Emunah 
Ateret Zekenim 

Responsa of Meir of Rothenburg 

Maamar Haskel 

Zori Hegon 

Or Enayim 

Responsa of Nissim of Gerona 

Responsa of Joseph Kolon 

* Fumagalli ibid, 

t Yosef Lekah 1567. 

t For Draconin see Fumagalli p. 107. 

If De Rossi '.'Ann. ebr. tip. di Cremona." 

[319] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1558 


Arba Turim 




Minhagim 




Keritut 




Mibhar Hapeninim 




Eben Bohen 




Orah Hayim 


1559 


Hizkuni 




Mehir Yayin 


1560 


Zohar 




Ziyuni 




Pentateuch & Megillot 


1561 


Mahzor 




Psalms with commentary of Kimhi 


1565 


Tanya 


1566 


Torat Habayit 




Imre No'am 




Minhagim 




Rua'h 'Hen 




Milot Higayon 




Horban Bet Hamikdash 




Megillat Sefer 


1567 


Pentateuch & Megillot 




Yosef Lekah 


1586 


Responsa of Nissim of Gerona 


Without 




date 


Sefer Hasidim 




Sefer Hamussar 



Since the days of Abraham Conat and Samuel 
Latif no Hebrew books had been published at 
Mantua. Toward the middle of the sixteenth 

[320] 



t vSj> nan im omatt Vn S'an \Voh muoi npn* nwyV'h inn tto8»i vvik Vwite 

WIS onaVoi ona»oiBW3iw>"on»flo» msvh yaiuh 6»mtDi cnaun o'san •■ww 

«w BM pa Kirva Vjn p'jy pwoaimva ppvmSi'n rK n»T^ 

: psnbaonitfS laivivnTsaiwynajc 

B»w'n3i!»ivatt33'»nra]3n|aw3P3tyo''OT'n3i5333»>naKntt/ RTW*^ 
»wo jno o'nwi n»y mvo inti o?n» 'jiVVpi wan trtioi iiao jn iSw W w J 

ioai'»nan nsana fisst »hy nSSpn'iran nw jwbyi ym ma -v)»h vsm S^pen ' wo 
T3«e rt« bVp» -mi »'K ©v »3 3'roi rov no tcsi vas VVpoi 3'roi rov riD;icKi vsjc 
■vikV rtinh 13 van SSp idki vas 'Sr |»>3a nr'o ini^ D"n3 kU »V [tjc rw niS vw wi 
«{"iio:il3>aTii»wt«niaw»''Bani:»i'K8iv3Mtp3n3it}3n«'Dn3nn»T,Tnjvo 
rpifai Va!«B msa inwi ' wnaa nht vtjn nrio »S» iBipB3 3*1* kVi id^b3 toj;* kV 
:w;vo3 nsao v>n3 'n3aB''aan tatf 1 ' k»»ibi o'saai Vpbi ^sSo fai j^tbi yoio 
-soyy V3D3 »srinB 'Bvy V3tt;3 omStt^'cK* kV oipaS r3t«;n3i3 rhviio nn lyo rtia 
nVvflcnjnottfW'oiKn'nwapioa ' MKV3»3irt^p'BiKKt,»Byy Va»3»inBft 
, "jWi ta»B ipin 3V iira'Bili * waw a ms3 'ann na wtj ic« "p t(b ksk 'bk -p ibk* 
|fvnn3 p33 it»3 i]w63'fflK W1 V3K w n33Bn>B3n 13IOT : Mn of^wnV wiar'o* 
• oipan 'jaOKw p33a wv {iw»b3 p33Dfnnttv»B »h» pasa uv }n»'n3p93BiWf 
*i»K rVy 'ais mnsm? ocien vipjibs ibk wi v3K;!» waai oypn n33a,i (3n ••wvk 
^'Ki!«^ : wn»ini33Vo»i»isKi3t«n'o»3'Tn3finwn«/jnnyijmi»»T»K'»Vfiw 
ijm {.13 nnj'V otk in» ti3»3V nann nan hii»h» vrnanravii v •ohsirm 13^3 onain 
ntn d^ra jiri'fl bt» Vaw psi nap* jiAnniipsi np^ tfcm can scm* ' tvm hy m» 
Aiaw'Wa l»a» pa*'*' |J»^ T» wi i»att w nsa'ow kp pton 0^ A'ts**? ™ 

'^ »3»AiaBfiSW31^3B»»IJ»Sl"JMC 

jaiKi o>j;3ttni D*aS(c nvan nxf 
noaa iMt»'p dV v rKn3V 

'"|Drm 

{CK :ftt»T»ri^'niirWWKO»Dj'n^3BlWpJ3Wl 

Last page of " Tke Custom of tne Fathers. 
Latif, Mantua, 1514 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

century this city had become a place of refuge for 
many victims of ecclesiastical persecution. The 
reigning Duke, Guglielmo Gonzaga, was, like 
many of the Italian princes, educated by masters 
who were inspired by the spirit of free inquiry and 
thought that was one of the noblest fruits of the 
Renaissance of literature and learning. His inter- 
course with scholarly and high-minded Jews, who 
were freely received at his court, tempered his 
judgment toward "the people of affliction." Duke 
Guglielmo's decrees concerning the Jews well 
illustrated the conflict of forces in a community 
whose ideal was not justice but faith, for while on 
the one hand, under the influence of his churchly 
advisers, he forbade the Jews from tilling the soil 
and renting real estate,* he on the other hand 
decreed that "we desire that the Jews shall be as 
free and secure as the Christians in pursuing their 
business and professions in our city and our 
duchy." t Yet in the very year of this decree he 
permitted the monks to take possession of the 
Jewish cemetery under the right of eminent do- 
main claimed by the Church, in order to enlarge 
their already capacious monastery. J Thus by 
concessions to the spirit of the time the Duke kept 
his peace with the Church and on the whole gave 
his people as good a government as was possible 
under the system of petty tyranny and ecclesiasti- 

*R. E.J. 11 :274. 
t J. E. 8 :299. 
j J. E. 8 :300. 

[322] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



cal interference then in vogue throughout Italy and 
the world — a system under which the farmer the 
laborer the petty mechanic and the Jew suffered 
equally, a system that was only beginning to 
recognize the merchant and that had since time 
immemorial enthroned the soldier and pampered 
the priest. 

In the fifth decade of the fifteenth century, as 
the presses of Venice came to rest, a number of 
active presses sprang up in Lombardy. In Mantua 
the enterprising initiative of two descendants of 
Paduan Jews, Joseph ben Jacob Shalit and Meir 
ben Ephraim the Scribe again set the Hebrew 
presses in motion. The first of these, Joseph ben 
Jacob whose surname Ashkenazi indicates his 
descent from German Jews, who had settled in 
Padua to escape persecution, was not only a crafts- 
man but a scholar and linguist, and entered the 
republic of letters in 1550 with an ItaHan trans- 
lation of a Hebrew dissertation written by Rabbi 
Moses ben Abraham of Provence, on the mathe- 
matical problem of two lines constantly approach- 
ing each other but never meeting.* After the 
appearance in 1550 of his first Hebrew book the 
Passover Haggadah,t Joseph Shalit removed to 

* Zunz Z. G. 2S1. He was one of the six judges and leaders of the 
German Jewish community at Mantua. Zunz. Z. G. 252. He wrote 
introduction to Abrabanel's commentary on Deuteronomy, ISSl, 
Isaac Arama's "Hazut Kaisha'' 1552 published at Sabbioneta and dedi- 
cated to Aaron Habib of Pesaro. Also introduction to Tikkun Middot 
Hanefesh and Goren Nakon published at Riva 1562. 

t Not at Venice as Zunz Z. G. 251 has it, but at Mantua 
Wiener " Oster Haggadah" No. 9. 



[323 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Sabbioneta where for several years he was as- 
sociated with the press of Tobia Foa and whence 
he brought with him the right to use the printer's 
mark of "the partners" of Sabbioneta, the peacock 
on the rock which appears in some of his books at 
Mantua. In 1556 he resumed his work as a printer 
at Mantua and during 1556-1558 issued at least 
five books.* His importance as a printer was 
completely overshadowed by his contemporaries 
Meir the Scribe and Jacob of Gazolo, who some- 
times alone and sometimes in partnership and as- 
sisted by many competent craftsmen, produced 
the books that gave Mantua a notable place in 
the history of Hebrew typography. Most of these 
books were printed at the press of Venturin 
Rufifinello, a Christian printer who came to Mantua 
from Venice in 1545. We know that at Venice 
the Hebrew printers were obliged to do their work 
at the presses of the Christian printers, who had 
secured a monopoly of the right to issue Hebrew 
books. It is not unlikely that a similar state of 
affairs existed at Mantua; for although both Ven- 
ice and Mantua were comparatively liberal in their 
treatment of the Jews, they were in many ways 
influenced by the prevailing Christian sentiment. 
Rufifinello secured many privileges from the Cardi- 

* 1556 Hatehiyah vehapedut 
Hapedut vehapurkan 

1557 Iggeret baale hayyim 
Ben hamelekh vehanazir 

1558 Mishle Shualim 
Zunz. Z. G. 249. 

[324] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



nal Archbishop Ercole Gonzaga for there had 
been no press of any kind in Mantua for twenty 
years. At his death in 1558 he was succeeded by 
his son Giacomo who in 1576 was followed by his 
son Tommaso.* The rival house of Fillipono, 
estabHshed by Francesco Fillipono who was suc- 
ceeded by his sons Filotarsi and Calidono Filli- 
pono,t does not seem to have seriously contested 
for supremacy with the RufiEnelli. 

Jacob ben Naftali Cohen of Gazolo after having 
served at the press of Foa in Sabbioneta as one of 
"the partners" came to Mantua in 1556 and during 
the following eight years established a splendid 
record for good typographical work.J His first 
work appears to have been a new edition of Elijah 
Levita's grammatical work the "Bahur" which he 
printed at the press of Venturin Rufifinello for 
Meir b. Ephraim the Scribe. The relations thus 
established between Jacob and Meir continued 
until 1563 when Jacob either died or retired or 
removed from Mantua.T[ Of all the books printed 
at Mantua the most important is the Zohar prep- 
arations for which were made as early as 1556. 
The Zohar, "the Shining", seems to have been 
named upon the principle by which in polite and 

*Fumagalli202. 

t Filotarsi and Calidono were probably the sons of Francesco and 
the same as the printers of the Haggadot of 1568 known as "the sons 
of Fillipono." 

J J- E. 7 : 40. 

f His last book seems to have been the Mishnah printed in the 
house of Francesco Fillipono. Zunz. Z. G. 2S5. 



[325] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

tender Hebrew phraseology a blind man is called 
"full of light", for its mission seems to have been 
to add little light, but much darkness, to the 
Jewish mind. The original stimulus for the print- 
ing of this book seems to have come from Moses 
Bassola of Pesaro a son of that Mordecai Bassola 
who was proof reader at the press of Soncino. At 
his solicitation his disciple Immanuel of Benevento 
who promoted the publication of two other mysti- 
cal works * undertook to publish it,t by bearing 
the expense and assisting at the press. Its 
publication was further favored by Isaac b. Im- 
manuel de Lattes of Rome J and by the Cardinal 
Archbishop of Mantua who issued a statement in 
its favor. 

The long series of persecutions to which the 
Jewish people and their literature had been sub- 
jected had somewhat affected the thought and 
hopes of many of them, and in the mysticism of 
the Zohar they found adequate literary expression 
of their revived hopes for a Messianic time that 
should redeem them from their unbearable misery. 
Their once political Messianism had been refined 
into a Messianism of subtler type, which projected 
redemption into a more distant future and longed 
for something more than a restored Jewish com- 

* 1SS7 Tikkune Zohar 
1558 Maarekhet Elohut 

Conforte, Kore Hadorot 40 a. 
t Immanuel was not the printer but the patron of the work. Jew. 
Enc. Article "Basilea," Graetz 9; 369. 
I Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 99. 

[326] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



monwealth. It had now become a mad dream of 
miracle-workers who considered themselves fore- 
runners of a miraculous redeemer. The trinitarian 
elements in this jumble of mysticism, philosophy 
and theology attracted many of the leading men 
of the Church who, deceived by the apparent 
antiquity of the Zohar, looked with favor on what 
seemed to them to be confirmation of the funda- 
mental dogmas of Catholicism.* After three 
years of work the Zohar appeared in 1559 in three 
quarto volumes. f While it was in press Vicenzo 
Conti of Cremona, anticipating the printers of 
Mantua } issued another edition which through 
judicious advertising and the patronage of Vittorio 
Eliano and of the Inquisitor General, threatened 
to wreck the newly established press at Mantua. T[ 
The obvious superiority of the Mantua edition, 
Buxtorf to the contrary notwithstanding,** gained 
for it success in the open book market, and defeated 
Conti's attempt to overreach his rivals. 

Although the activity of the press at Mantua 
was temporarily stimulated by the cessation of the 
press at Ferrara in 1558 and at Sabbioneta in 1560 
and by the acquisition of the types of the latter, 
it soon succumbed at the renewed competition of 
the presses of Venice, which resumed work in 1564, 
Mantua like all the other Italian cities suffered to 

* Graetz 9 : 369; Jew. Enc. Art. "Zohar." 
t Abraham b. Meshullam of Modena, corrector, 
j Graetz 9 :370. 

% It was a state of ^affairs similar to that which brought such mis- 
fortune to the houses of Giustiniani and Bragadini of Venice. 
** De Rossi "Cremona" p. 12. 

[327] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

such an extent, that she seems to have been un- 
able to make use of even so valuable a concession 
as that given in 1562 when the Council of Trent, 
probably under the influence of its president the 
Cardinal Archbishop Ercole Gonzaga of Mantua, 
granted the Jewish community of Mantua per- 
mission to print Hebrew books. Cardinal Gon- 
zaga died in the same year at about the time when 
the Inquisition, having at last discovered 'that the 
Zohar and the Kabbalistic literature were of no 
help to Catholicism, decreed their condemnation. 
This reversal of the policy of the Church caused the 
greatest alarm everywhere, especially in Mantua. 
The Jews there believing that a reversal of this 
decree could be obtained through the intercession 
of the new Pope Pius IV, a man of milder manner 
and temper than his predecessor Pope Paul IV. 
sent a committee to Trent and succeeded in 
having the matter referred to him, at Rome. 
The Jews of that city, aided by their brethren 
elsewhere, brought all their influence to bear and 
succeeded so well that when the new Index was 
published in March 1564, it was found that al- 
though the old phrase against "the Talmud its 
glosses annotations interpretations and exposi- 
tions" had been retained, it had been modified 
by the clause "but if they shall be published with- 
out the title 'Talmud' and without calumnies and 
insults to the Christian religion they shall be 
tolerated."* This was almost equivalent to per- 

* Popper, S2. 

[328] 




X itle page of Generations of Isaac ' 
Meir of Padua and Jacob of Gazolo, Mantua 1558 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

mission to establish a free Hebrew press. But 
although this privilege was conceded in 1564, 
eight years elapsed before the printers of Mantua 
took advantage of it. It may well be that they 
were restrained by their knowledge born of long 
and bitter experience that it is easy for a Pope to 
take away that which his predecessor has granted, 
and that the minions of the Inquisition were ever 
ready to pounce upon and misinterpret any inno- 
cent phrase or word appearing in a Hebrew book 
and use it as a pretext for extortion and perse- 
cution. 

In 1572 Meir the Scribe took courage and began 
to reprint the great Code of the Law of Maimonides, 
which some twenty years before had been the bone 
of contention between the printers of Venice. Nor 
did he venture upon this step until after he had 
obtained a special license from the Inquisitor of 
Mantua Giovanni Battista di Milano issued to the 
Jew Mirra di Crescino of Padua (none other than 
our Meir the Scribe) and his partner. 

Soon after the publication of the first part of 
this great work the plague broke out and the 
ghetto of Mantua rendered its quota of victims. 
The printer Meir lost his daughter and daughter- 
in-law, and Jews as well as Christians paid a 
fearful penalty for the unhygienic conditions that 
prevailed in most of their habitations. Following 
the plague came the edict of Duke Guglielmo in- 
troducing the hated yellow badge to distinguish 
the Jews of his city from their Christian fellow 

[330] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



subjects.* The persecuting mania once aroused 
grew stronger with every victim and it was the 
fate of the printer Meir in his extreme old age to 
feel the heavy hand of persecution. A short entry 
in his diary records that without notice or trial 
he was suddenly arrested and imprisoned imme- 
diately after the Jewish New Year, kept in soHtary 
confinement and released for want of evidence 
against him a few days after the Day of Atone- 
ment. The cruel injustice of the whole proceeding 
against the helpless and innocent old man broke 
down his health, and he died after a lingering 
illness. 

PUBLICATIONS OF MEIR THE SCRIBE AND 
JACOB OF GAZOLO.f 

1556 Habahur 
Behinat olam 
Shehitot 

1557 Mahzor 
Megillat Antiochus 
Haggadah (Roman Rite)t 
Tikkune Zohar 

Livyat Hen 

1558 Sefer Hamussar 
Maarekhet Elohut 
Toledot Yizhak 

* A badge originally invented by a Mohammedan ruler and bor- 
rowed for the benefit of the Christian world by Pope Innocent III. 
t Zunz. Z. G. 249. 
tZ. H. B. 9 : 152. 

[331] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1559 


Mekor Hayim 




Hobob Halebabot 




Zohar 


1560 


Mishnah Abot with commentaries 




Bedikot 




Haggadah 


1561 


Shaare Orah 




Orah Hayim 




Marpe lenefesh 




Seah Solet 




Hamiznefet 




Mishnah Nashim 




" Nezikin 




Yihus Buch 


1562 


Sefer Yezirah 




Mishnah Kodashim 




Prayers with Judaeo-German transla- 




tion 




Psalms 


1563 


Mishnah Taharot 


Jacob of Gazolo has no part in the following 


publications: — 




Mahalakh 




Midrash Tanhuma, Meir the Scribe & 




Ezra b. Isaac of Fano 




Menorat Hamaor, Meir the Scribe, 




Ephraim b. Isaac and Meir b. 




Moses Heilprun. 


1564 


Judges 


1566 


Ele Hadebarim* 


* Divorce proceedings. 



[332] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 

ti 


1568 


Haggidah 


1570 


Bedil|)t* 


1571 


Psalms 


1572 


3 books of Mishneh Torah 


1574-76 


Meor Enayim 


Sine anno 


Samuel 




Prophets 




Hebrew letter writer. 



After the death of Meir the Scribe, his nephew 
and son-in-law Ephraim ben David inherited his 
types and toward the end of the century printed 
a few books at the press of the Ruffinelli.f He was 
followed by Moses Elishama of the family of 
Zifroni who printed at the press of Tomasso 
Rufifinelli for the brothers Isaac and Solomon 
Norzi members of an old and distinguished family 
of Mantuan Jews.J 

* Ersch & Gruber 46 note 107. 
t 1S88 Abot (in Italian) 

1589 Pentateuch with Targum, etc. 

1590 Abot with Rashi. 
t 1593 Halikot 01am 

Shearit Yosef 
Shearit Yisrael 
Darke Hagemara 
1597 Responsa of the Geonim. 

Moses Elishama was the son of the well-known printer, Israel 
Zifroni of Guastalla, who lived at Gazolo whence came that other ex- 
cellent printer, Jacob ben Naftali, who printed with Meir the Scribe. 
Israel Zifroni conducted the new press at Basel where, among other 
works, he printed the Talmud in 1581. He had also printed at Sab- 
bioneta and Venice before his son Moses Elishama came to Mantua 
to attempt to revive the dying Hebrew press of the Ruffinelli. Zunz 
"Zur Geschichte und Literatur " p. 258. 

In 1594 Moses b. Katriel Weiss of Prague printed Mishnayot at 
the press of Tomasso Ruffinelli. 

[333] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

But neither the skill of the printer nor the de- 
votion of his patrons the Norzi could stay the 
decay of this enterprise. The insidious work of 
the Inquisition and the ruthless censorship made 
Hebrew printing a thankless task and Moses 
Elishama Zifroni sadly withdrew to Venice to 
join his father, and for fifteen years no Hebrew 
books appeared at Mantua. 

In 1612 another attempt was made to re- 
establish the press. Eliezer d' Italia first of the 
printers to print in the Mantuan ghetto which had 
been established in 1610 * called Moses Elishama 
Zifroni back from Venice and with his aid and the 
patronage of Dr. Abraham Portaleone printed the 
work of the latter, the "Shields of the Mighty." f 
Eliezer d'ltalia fondly called his press, "one such 
as we had here in former days," but the times had 
changed and after printing two books besides that 
of Dr. Portaleone,{ Eliezer d'ltalia and his press 
disappear. 

After an interval an attempt to re-establish the 
press was made in 1619 by the sons of Israel 
Conian. But all that appeared was a Purim song 

* Carnevali "il ghetto di Mantova" p. 33. 

t 1612 Shilte Hagibborim. The author hardly survived the 
publication of his book. This Dr. Abraham Portaleone, whom Graetz, 
"Gesch. der Juden" 9 : 486, calls "a half-crazy physician and tiresome 
writer," was a fine scholar, a distinguished physician and a patron of 
the Hebrew press to the day of his death. Fiirst, Jahrbuch fiir Gesch. 
d. Juden 2 : 346 calls his Shilte Hagibborim "a book of wonderful 
riches and scientific value'' and quotes Wagenseil who calls it "librura 
aureum" and Menasse ben Israel "ingeniosum opus. 

} Ayelet Hashahar, Yashir Mosheh. Zunz, Zur Gesch. p. 259. 

[334] 



■JJJ? P!P7 OlOP llO 0|>'JJ3»fjJ l-JPD ?71P:' 7;3j> •)p33 0n37;'6 

JO?) oriPJ on'?3) 0':)! oj^j'^i oitiiPpbpDTJCPOwo'TJb 

ft |^3P ?:?) ■ f)33 iiiP? TDD i3iji)i)i? Ja l>3p ?o if>3i p ois 

»)»P i'»i M'SO jrSsD |»3?1 1^ OtrDP)f)i?li3l'l>Jlifl?);))3'733 

n )3i3 oi)3 Vn^PJ ■)t6j')p'[)P? PD3!tP» OTPT P7r) IPfl f'l?J'» 

rn©3?)'<!>'^'pTJ'pi533 PP''3' /"'"i^wipninpp'TropipnffS 

J5)pDl r)3'P3 3W 7Pf> i33 ?:?) :mr/??pp5pDif)'ci7)i3)?f)3>)?P') 

;p)t3)?i)3!7riD)P)y"f'> iwispwiiDsiPfyihiwipri) 




■-^' CyoOtfuQ litis. J^ 



From " Book of tke Creation' 
Jacob of Gazolo, Mantua, 1562 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

in Italian.* In 1622 Judah Samuel of Perugia 
founded a press apparently under the patronage 
of Duke Ferdinando Gonzaga and "con licenza dei 
superiori," with his son Joshua as foreman and 
Hananiah Marun b. Mordecai as chief printer and 
although they used old and battered types of the 
Mantuan and Venetian printers, some of their 
books are not ill-looking especially in comparison 
with other productions of those days of the decline 
of the art. They printed until the death of the 
Duke in 1626,t and while they were printing their 
last book, the first of the productions of the press 
of Amsterdam was being made ready, and the 
leadership in printing passed from Italy to Holland. 
During the interval from the death of the Duke 
in 1626 until after the Thirty Years War, the Jews 
of Mantua suffered greatly from mob persecu- 
tion plagues and military invaders. After the 
close of that long series of wars in which religious 
antagonism fused with dynastic policies embroiled 
Europe until the Treaty of Westphalia, Lombardy 
which had been the scene of many conflicts began 

* Zunz. Zur Gesch. p. 2S9. 

t 1621 Tikkune Bakashot Anshe Maamad 

1622 Massoret haberit 
Ben Shemuel 

1623 Tomer Deborah 
Korban Todah 
Assis Rimmonitn 
Tapuhe Zahab 

1624 Yemin Mosheh 
Meire Shahar 

1626 Maabor Yabbok 

[336] 



CREMONA AND MANTUA 



to revive and the very year of the signing of the 
Treaty of Peace marks the revival of the Mantuan 
Hebrew press under the direction of Joshua the 
son of Judah Samuel of Perugia who had been as- 
sociated with his father at the press which ended 
in 1626, and whose sons in turn carried on the 
work intermittently until the seventh decade of 
the century,* printing a few books of devotion 
and prayer but nothing of any importance.! 



*1648 


Mekiz Nirdamim 


16S3 


Siddur Miberakah 


1657 


Magen Hayim 


1661 


Commentary on Perek Shirah 


1662 


Prayers 


1664 


Mafaresh Hataim 


1667 


Seder Nahon 


1670 


Shehitah 


1672 


Selihot 


1673 


Seder Tahanunim 


1678 


Mantua Tekanot 


1695 


Statutes of the Congregation 



t Zunz. Zur. Gesch. u. Lit. 259-261. 



[337 



CHAPTER XIV. 

THE RESUMPTION OF THE PRESS AT VENICE, 

The Press at Padua — The New Presses at Venice — The 
Hebrew Press Exempt from the General Decline of Printing 
— The Zanetti Family — Giorgio di Cavalli — The Popularity 
of the Law Codes — Giovanni Grijio — Giovanni di Gara the 
"Heir of Bomber g" — The Fame of the di Gara Press — 
Printing Then and Now — The Law of 1571 Forbidding Jews 
to Print — The Blunders of Christian Compositors — Isaac 
Gerson and His Opinion on Index and Table of Contents — 
New Regulations Concerning License — Sixtus V — Alvise 
Bragadini and Meir Parenzo — The Types of Guillaume le Be. 

IN 1563 the ban that seems to have been on 
Hebrew typography in Venice was removed, 
and the resumption of Hebrew printing began at 
Padua which had been under the dominion of 
Venice since 1405 and had never had a Hebrew 
press. This press did not survive its second book, 
for after Lorenzo Pasquato and his associates 
published the "Way of Faith" by Meir b. Gabbai * 
for Messer Sidro del Portel Vecchio in 1563 and 
the Homilies of Shemtob b. Shemtob in 1567 f 
for Messer Piero del Portel Vecchio, we hear no 
more of Hebrew printing in Padua until 1622. 
The Jews were notTfavored in Padua and were 
being gradually enmeshed by the restrictions under 

* Derekh Emunah finished 27 Tebet S323, corrector Samuel Boehm 
who fled to Italy from Bohemia where his father Isaac Boehm had 
suffered martyrdom for his faith. See introduction to the Derekh 
Emunah. 

t Derashot Hatorah. 

[338] 



5^*5 







o'pic r-t4 Dsn nan mD^wi K^f^j 















*;?V''^'vl5S 












L7.-.fe?^^ 









Title page of " Tke ^Vay of Faitk 
Pasquato, Padua, 1563 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

which they suffered in Venice. In 1602, after a 
half century of clerical agitation that began the 
very year in which the first of the five books of 
Padua appeared, she introduced the ghetto, that 
characteristic institution of the later middle ages 
which owes its formal establishment to Venice. 
The University of Padua, however, was in some 
respects well disposed toward the Jews; it per- 
mitted them to register in its faculty of medicine 
and it supported their efforts to join the guild of 
booksellers, for the students were thereby enabled 
to buy their text books more cheaply. It seems 
that the Christian booksellers successfully ex- 
cluded the Jews for the reason so often assigned 
then and even now that the Jews undersold their 
Christian competitors; and the economic ab- 
surdity of maintaining high prices by establishing 
monopolies prevailed to the regret and chagrin 
of the University authorities and students.* Al- 
though the Hebrew press at Padua contributed 
very little to Jewish literature, we in America may 
well remember this city, for at a much later date 
there lived and died there Giuseppe Almanzi, 
scholar and bibliophile, whose great collection of 
Hebrew books came into possession of Columbia 
University through the munificence of the Temple 
Emanuel of New York. 

At Venice the presses were soon extraordinarily 
active. Five independent Christian printers took 
up Hebrew printing at about the same time and 

* Putnam 1 : 193^. 

[341] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

soon Bragadini, Di Gara, Zanetti, Grifio and 
Cavalli were in active competition for the Hebrew 
book trade. In non-Hebrew printing it was this 
competition, this zealous bidding for the favor of 
an ever expanding market that compelled the 
printers to cheapen their wares, and of course 
produce works of inferior workmanship. Venetian 
books were threatened with official exclusion from 
Rome on account of their inaccuracy and general 
inferiority and copyists and caligraphers were again 
in demand to prepare texts for those who cared for 
artistic excellence and scholarly accuracy.* It is 
remarkable that this general condition of decline 
did not affect Hebrew texts, probably because the 
editors and correctors employed were pious men 
to whom the preparation of Hebrew texts was 
still as of old, a "holy work"; and also because 
the printers who undertook their publication be- 
longed to that class of craftsmen who were not yet 
prepared to sacrifice everything for the sake of 
mere gain. Cristoforo Zanetti was one of those 
who cultivated Greek and for whom Guillaume le 
Be' cut Greek type in 1548, the same Guillaume 
who cut Hebrew type for Giustiniani, Meir Parenzo 
and others.f 

Zanetti was classed with Giolito, the Aldine 
family, Gardoni, who printed the Shulhan Arukh 
in 1577-78, and others who still maintained the 
ancient reputation of the Venetian press. J He 

* Brown "Venet. Printing Press" 99. 
t Brown "Venet. Printing Press" 104. 
t Brown "Venet. Printing Press" 100. 

[342] 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

first printed Hebrew in 1564 at the order of Di 
Gara and in the following two years produced on 
his own account several Hebrew books of good 
quality.* 

In 1593-96 Matteo Zanetti associated with Com- 
ino Presignof published a few books and Matteo's 
heirs continued the press under the superintendence 
of Daniel Zanetti who at the same time was printing 
in his own house in the Calle de Dogan. Finally 
in 1606 Zanetto or Zuan Zanetti took charge and 
printed Hebrew until 1608 after which no Hebrew 
books appear at this press. 

A PARTIAL LIST OF BOOKS OF THE ZANETTI 

PRESS 



1593 


Biure Rashi 


1595 


Seder Hanikkud 


1596 


Dibre Shalom 


1597 


Vayakhel Mosheh 




Ho'il Mosheh 


1598 


Tanna de Be Eliyahu 


1599 


Leshon Zabah 




Tiferet Israel 


1601 


Keter Shem tob 


1602 


Responsa of Asher ben Yehiel 



* 1565 Darke Hatalmud 

1566 Pentateuch 
Midrash Hane'elam 

1567 Rashi on Pentateuch & Megillot (Ersch & Gruber 

59) 
t Ersch & Gruber 59. 

[343] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

1602 Hekhal Adonai 

Responsa of Menahem Azariah 
Commentary on Malachi 

1603 Urim vethummim 
Magen Abraham 

1604 Bet Hauzieli 

1605 Mill d'aboth 

1606 Lehem Mishneh 
Lehem Dim'a 
Imre Shefer 

Responsa of Joseph ibn Leb 
Abodat Hakodesh 
Bedek Habayit 
Mashbit Milhamot 
Mishnah in Spanish 
1608 Pirke d' Rabbi Eliezer 
Apiryon Shelomoh 

Daniel Zanetti's most interesting publication 
is a volume of translations from the Hebrew, by 
Deborah Ascarelli a poetess of renown far beyond 
her native city who wrote equally well in Hebrew, 
Latin and Italian. Her most notable work is her 
Italian version of the Hebrew text of "The Temple 
of the Supplicants," part of a larger work written 
by Moses of Rieti, who was Rabbi in Rome in the 
second half of the fifteenth century and private 
physician to Pope Pius II.* "The Temple of the 

* Although, according to Graetz, Moses of Rieti's work lacks 
style and depth as well as poetic imagination, it has long been known 
as a Jewish Divina Commedia; it is notable in that it successfully 
introduced the terza rima into Hebrew poetry. 

[344] 




Title page of R.espoiisa 
Zanetti, Venice, 1602 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Supplicants" was first translated by Lazaro da 
Viterbo, whose text was printed by Giovanni di 
Gara in 1585; then followed the translation of 
Deborah Ascarelli, which was edited for the aged 
poetess by David della Rocca a distinguished 
Talmudic scholar who also wrote the introduction.* 
Giorgio or Zorzo di Cavalli, a new comer in the 
field was assisted by the veteran Vittorio Eliano, 
"grandson of the greatest of the grammarians 
Eliah Bahur",t Abraham Ay lion one of the Rabbis 
of Venice and Samuel Boehm who had helped 
Pasquato print his first Hebrew book at Padua.f 
Upwards of a dozen books appeared at his press T[ 
among them several of the great codes and com- 

* Vogelstein & Rieger 2 : 264. 

t See Meir lyob 1567. 

t The Cavalli were an ancient Veronese family who had been made 
Venetian patricians for services rendered to the State by Giacomo 
Cavalli at Candia (Moreri, Diet.). It is not improbable that Marinus 
de Caballi, a Paduan knight who licensed the publication of the Derekh 
Emunah at Padua, was a kinsman of Giorgio di Cavalli. 

TI 1S6S Tur Eben Haezer 

1566 Mishle Hahamim 
En Yaakob 
Midrash Rabba 

Bahya on the Pentateuch 
Yesod Mora 

1567 Meir lyob 
Abkab Rohel 
Nahlat Abot 
Zeror Hamor 
Kolbo 
Shulhan Arukh 

1568 Mahzor (Polish rite) 
Mahzor (German rite) 

Ele Hadebarim (record of a divorce case) 
Sine data Parshiyot for Monday and Thursday etc. Ersch & 
Gruber 59. 

[346] 




±1^?^ «->,- 



b'^J2 i"r;n S:) niDcan ny lobn 'im mn"? 'ti N-i-riij- 

' top'?iJ uno 1C0J3) . « 



1'i^ ?ti 



',•.-3 



,-.3 J... 




';''»i^ 



# 



Title page of the record of the Divorce Proceeding of 
bamuel Ventorozo 
Cavalli. Venice, 1566 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

pendia of the law. These were the favorite books 
of the time, a time of no great legal originality or 
development but of painstaking examination of 
the law as it had survived from past ages and of 
overwrought zeal in preserving it unchanged. The 
Jewish authorities had to a certain extent taken 
color from their Christian environment, and the 
exponents of orthodox tradition were never more 
fiercely insistent upon its sanctity and immobility 
than in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. 
Here and there a scholar of originality ventured to 
suggest departures from the beaten paths, but the 
time was not favorable to such free flights and their 
attempts were of little avail. The results of the 
labor of the great men of former days who were 
unhampered by the restrictions that the Church 
had laid upon later generations, seemed in the eyes 
of their successors, immured in dark ghettos and 
hemmed about by inhuman legislation, to be the 
fruit of such extraordinary genius that it was akin 
to impiety to even venture to criticise them. In 
the Christian world the efforts of the Inquisition 
to suppress free thought were still successful, al- 
though the increase of heresy indicated that a new 
time was approaching. The printer's mark of 
Cavalli, the elephant bearing a castle, and its 
significant motto may be interpreted to indicate 
how the times were changed. The elephant 
marches "tarde sed tuto," slowly but surely, like 
the march of enlightenment that led men out of 
the darkness of the Middle Ages. 

[349] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

A third Venetian printer who entered the field 
of Hebrew typography at this time was Giovanni 
Grifio * probably related to the Gryphos of Lyons 
and having like them the mark of the griffin holding 
a stone in its claws from which a winged globe is 
suspended. t Although he had excellent assistants, 
notably Samuel Boehm, Meshullam Kaufman, 
Solomon Luzatto and Samuel Archevolti, and pub- 
lished five books in 1567, J a notable achievement 
in view of the magnitude of several of them and 
the care required in their editing, he seems to have 
given up Hebrew printing after this year. Perhaps 
hke Zanetti and Cavalli of Venice and Pasquato 
of Padua he realized in his attempt to compete 
with Di Gara and Bragadini, that, as he expressed it 
in his various printer's mottos, "wisdom without 
good luck accomplishes little." Tf 

Of all the printers who resumed after 1563, the 
only ones who survived for any length of time 
were the houses of Di Gara and Bragadini. Since 
Aldo Manuzio had made Venetian typography 



* This form of the name seems more correct than Grypho as Stein- 
schneider gives it. 
t Fumagalli 492. 
J Turim 

Shulhan Arukh 

Sforno's commentary on Pentateuch 

Abodat Hakodesh 

Genesis Rabba 

Ersch & Grub?r 59. 
^ "Virtute duce, comite fortuna." 

"Poco val la vertu senza fortuna." 

"Beli hashpiat tob hamazalot, me'at mo'ilot hamuskilot." 

[350] 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

synonymous with inimitable excellence and Daniel 
Bomberg, following in his footsteps, had produced 
models of typographical perfection, Venice had 
maintained her hegemony among the book pro- 
ducing cities of the world and had preserved the 
traditions of these masters. The types of Bom-* 
berg or imitations of them found their way into 
the printing houses of Northern Europe, but most 
of his fonts eventually came into the possession of 
Giovanni di Gara who proud of his assumed title 
as "heir of Bomberg," * emulated his predecessor 
and produced a great number of books, many of 
them worthy to take their place with the best 
productions of Bomberg. The activity of Daniel 
Bomberg and Giovanni di Gara practically spans 
the entire sixteenth century, and the combined 
output of their presses is an enduring monument 
to Hebrew printing in Venice. It seems that the 
heirs of Bomberg kept up some sort of an estab- 
lishment long after the founder's death, for Di 
Gara printed some of his early books "in the house 
of Bomberg" f and used the press of Cristoforo 
Zanetti % for the production of others before print- 
ing Hebrew at his own press. 

At the beginning of his career as a Hebrew 
printer, Di Gara used the very type that printed 
the books of Bomberg and advertised the fact in 

* Seder Maamadot 1564, Servus Bombergii a pueritia, Rabb. 
Bible 1S68. 

t Tur Eben Haezer IS65 
t Seder Maamadot 1564. 

[351] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

many of his publications until "with letters of 
Bomberg" became a mere form and simply meant 
in the Bomberg style. There was a good deal of 
"borrowing" among the printers, and title pages 
and style of types are often no indication of the 
place of pubhcations. The characteristic title page 
of Di Gara, a Roman arch whose pillars are gar- 
landed with flowers and fruits, was copied in books 
issuing from the presses of Lublin,* Cracow f and 
Bistrowitz J in Poland. So on the other hand, Di 
Gara imitated the title pages of Meir the Scribe 
of Mantua,1[ and then of Foa of Sabbioneta** 
though not until after these presses had ceased 
publication. For many years the presses of Di 
Gara and Bragadini seem to have been on terms of 
close business relations for Bragadini's foreman 
Asher Parenzo superintended work done for his 
master at Di Gara's press,tt and we find not only 
the three crowns of the Bragadini printers' mark 
on the title pages of Di Gara's books,J{ but the 
three crowns and the small single crown of Di 
Gara on the same page.T[Tf 

In considering the productivity of the Hebrew 
press we must not allow our judgment to be in- 



* Maharil 1590. 

t Tolaat Yaakob 1581. 

t Zebah Pesah 1592. 

If Yesha Elohim & Marpe lenefesh 1595. 
** Arugat Habosem and Hamekah vehametnkar 1602. 
tt Nefuzot Yehudah 1589. 

tJNefuzot Yehudah 1589; Torat Haadam 1595; Mahzor 1600. 
lit Kol Bokhim 1591. 

[352] 



yn\ jTfc^ nan 'w^ 

•^^^o^ 'n*?Kn DSt:?n \mn 

ir\)?iD nnaij; 



n 








{»'»5 U^ X)56 »'9J {^W ''U P'33 



3 

— 1» 

n 
ij 
a 



u 



Title Pa^c of Sfomo s Commentary on tke Pentateuck 
Grifio, Venice, 1567 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

fluenced by what we know of the possibilities of 
the modern press. In those days there were no 
regular lists of subscribers; Jewish communities 
were neither numerous nor large, methods of 
transportation were primitive, and communication 
was possible only along highways whose passage 
was beset with dangers unknown to modern trav- 
elers. The printers worked from hand to mouth, 
risking their enterprises on the uncertain seas of 
public demand and trimming their sails continually 
to meet the shifting winds of ecclesiastical whims 
and prejudices. To-day printers need fear neither 
edict nor decree; no censor passes upon their 
manuscripts or mutilates the productions of their 
press. When Di Gara sought to employ Jewish 
compositors he was met by a decree of the Venetian 
Senate that "no Jew may work at the press or print 
books under penalty of confiscation of the property 
and payment of a fine of one hundred ducats." * 
Giovanni di Gara's enforced use of Christian 
typesetters f makes clear the complaint of Rabbi 
Isaac Gerson, di Gara's editor-in-chief, who re- 
gretted the errors that crept into the texts of his 
books because, as he put it, "Everybody knows J 

*" In the year 1S71, 18th December, the Senate made a general 
order forbidding Jews to print at all: non possa alcun hebreo lavorar di 
stampa ne far stampare libri, et contrafacendo incorrino in pena di perder 
la robba, et pagar ducati cento. Et quelli che facessero stampar sotto 
nome de Christiani incorrino nell istessa pena et li libri stampati si 
intendano esser et siano di colui in nome de chi fussero stati stampati." 
Brown, "Venetian Printing Press" 106. 

t Ersch & Gruber 58. 

J Epigraph to Reshit Hokhmah, 1S78; see also Bine Sefer Kohelet, 
1S77. 

[354] 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

how the taskmasters drive in the press-room crying 
'hurry up your work and finish the quota of the 
press,' for it is the rule to turn out a certain num- 
ber every day and they do not give the correctors 
any rest. As to this book there is to be added 
that the greater part of it was printed by Christians 
during the month of Tishri, the greater part of 
which is taken up with Sabbaths and holy days, 
and a third trouble was that the editor was de- 
ceived and confused and there was no one to 
assist him. From this time, it is quite common 
to find such complaints in the epigraph against 
the ignorance and carelessness of the workmen,* 
whose errors Isaac Gerson likened to the fabled 
evil spirits born at twilight on Friday evening when 
the call of the Sabbath summoned the corrector, 
and the workmen were left to do their will. 

Di Gara would have been glad to save himself 
the cost of correcting the many errors made by 
his Christian compositors and, whenever possible, 
he employed Jews at his Hebrew press as proof 
readers and editors and in any other capacity 
permitted by the law. Among his assistants 
were such men as Asher Parenzo t brother of the 
more famous Meir Parenzo, and one of the family 
of printers well known and esteemed in Italy; 
Samuel Archevolti, a scholar who published some 
of his own books at di Gara's press,t Israel, the 

* H. B. 18: 113, 114; epigraph to Khozari 1594. 
t Asher was born in a printing housi. 

J Among them a well known Hebrew grammar, characteristically 
called "The Bed of Spices.'' 

1355] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

son of Daniel Zifroni * and his son Elishama 
members of a well known family of Hebrew printers ; 
Leon da Modena, distinguished as a rabbi in 
Venice and one of the most brilliant scholars of his 
time, and lastly Isaac Gerson who in the employ 
of the various printing houses for upwards of thirty 
years, according to the statement of David Con- 
forte the historian, "corrected all of the books 
printed in Venice." Gerson deserves the gratitude 
of posterity, for he was one of the first among 
Jewish scholars to recognize the importance of a 
good index and table of contents. Without them 
he never permitted a book to pass his hands, for 
he deemed them "as important for a book as eyes 
for a man." t 

The great problem of the publishers and printers 
was to conform to the rules of the Inquisition. 
The sleepless vigilance of the guardians of the faith 
allowed nothing to escape their vision. Toward 
the end of the sixteenth century examination and 
expurgation of books before printing had been 
pretty well established throughout Italy, and a 
license to print had to appear next to the title 
page of each publication. Thus, in a book of 
Norzi { you may find the following: "The three 
works above named by the same author have been 
revised and expurgated by the Rev. Father Don 

* Ersch & Gruber S8, note 9. 

t Zifroni also appreciated the importance of indexes. See colophon 
of Seder Hayom 1604. 

t Marpe le-Nefesh, 1579. 

[356] 




Title page of " HealtL to tLe Soul " 
Di Gara, Venice, 1584 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Marco Marino da Brescia and printed by Giovanni 
di Gara in Venice with the permission of the 
authorities." "Con Hcentia dei superiori" is found 
on every book issuing from this and the other 
Venetian presses of the time, and represented the 
right of the State to refuse to sanction pubUcation 
of a book even though the Ecclesiastical censors 
had passed it.* 

The hope entertained by the Jews that the 
reign of Pope Sixtus V would inaugurate a new 
and better era was justified, for within half a year 
after he ascended the throne he issued a bill re- 
pealing all previous restrictions against the Jews, 
allowing them to live openly in Italy and to keep 
their Hebrew books, provided they had been ex- 
purgated in accordance with the rules of the Coun- 
cil of Trent. The Jews were so elated that they 
even entertained the thought of petitioning for 
the privilege of issuing a new edition of the Tal- 
mud, an act that would have been sheer madness 
during the reign of any one of the predecessors of 
Sixtus since the time of Paul IV. For the pur- 
pose of properly undertaking a censorship of the 
Talmud and all its "glosses, notes, interpretations 
and expositions" the Congregation of the Index 

* Manzoni, p. 108, states that he is of opinion that Di Gara's 
editors first introduced a significant change in the text of the Khozari 
published 1594 with commentary by Judah Moscato. The author 
says, "I have been asked what arguments or replies I had to those 
who disagree with us, among publishers and men of other faiths,'' to 
which in Di Gara's edition there were added the words "except Chris- 
tians." 

[358] 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

had directed the translation of the entire work 
into Latin, inasmuch as most of the members of 
the Congregation did not understand Hebrew. 
This enormous difficulty was removed, however, 
by the brief of the Pope, who authorized the re- 
vision of the Talmud by those members of the 
Congregation who understood Hebrew. A further 
indication of the change of sentiment on the part of 
the ecclesiastical authorities was the invitation ex- 
tended by the Cardinals in charge of the revision 
to seven representatives of the Jews of Italy to 
meet them to decide upon rules to govern the 
censorship. This meeting was in fact held, the 
rules agreed upon and a committee appointed by 
the Cardinals for the purpose of undertaking the 
revision, which had as its final object the re- 
publication of the Talmud. But within two weeks 
after the appointment of the revisers Pope Sixtus 
V died, his successor Pope Urban VII died within 
a month after his election, and with the accession 
of Pope Gregory XIV all hope for the re-publication 
of the Talmud with the consent of the Pope was 
abandoned. 

Sixtus V was no fanatical zealot like some of 
his predecessors, but rather a wily diplomat who 
had secured his election by feigning insignificance 
and mildness and showed extraordinary powers as 
a statesman and ruler after he had attained the 
summit of his ambition. In him was again ex- 
emplified the fact often illustrated in the history 
of the Papacy, that the Jews had much less to fear 

[359]^ 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

from a Pope who was given to politics than from 
one who took himself seriously as the head of the 
Church and laid stress upon the importance of its 
function in the spread and maintenance of religion. 
As though to emphasize the difference between 
Pope and Church, de Pomis' dictionary printed 
with the Pope's consent dedicated to him and bear- 
ing his arms was like the books bearing the im- 
primatur of Cardinal Madrucci of Riva di Trento, 
impudently but piously "revised" by the censors, 
and the copy lying before me bears the marks of 
their disfiguring hand and the fading yellow 
signatures with which they finally approved the 
" purified" book. 

No attempt is here made to give a complete list 
of the publications of di Gara, but the entire Jewish 
literature was drawn on, — law and philosophy, 
natural science and mysticism, grammar and lexi- 
cography, in fact all of the known branches of 
learning were enriched by some specimen of his 
press. 

BOOKS PRINTED BY DI GARA.* 

1565 Tur Eben Haezer 

Responsa of Levi ibn Habib 
1568 Rabbinical Bible 
1574 Responsa of Saul Cohen & Isaac Abrabanel 

Tur Yore Deah 
1576 Mizmor Letodah 

* The list represents about one-half of the output of his presses, 
[360] 



SIXT0V,P0NT*MAX 

ATQVE BEATISSIMO. 





/EL 1 C I S S I M V S ille dies,(Beatifri me,atq;San 
aifTimepontifex) orbi cerarum iUuxic,in:quo 
ce Deus ad pontificatus culmen eucxic. ialuurc 
vniiierfis,& optabilem principatum, prsclaro 
initio aufpicatus cs . Nulla vnquam niortalipini 
mcmoriainPont. Maximo cligendo concor-i 
dia maior, nulla prarclarior; nulla faliibrior cle^lio. ingeiiti profe- 
floftudiOjmaxiinoaflFedu.tuijhuius ad principatum affumptionis 
gloria,ab omnibus exceptaconllantiflime eft ; quinimmo hac o.c- 
cafione,atq-, hoc ipfo tempore, uil.optacius,ardentiurue,cxpeaari 

poterat . Animum cre£lum , &C fublimen , Temper habuifti ; Nihil 
ex ore cuofi(3:um,nihilvanum,omniaingenua:re£i:itudinis plena, 
iotegriq; v eritacis , a le prodire comperta funt . Qu2 & multa alia ^ 
-Coelicus.tibi fortitadona.te ficuti inPrxclariftlmo Reuerendidi-J 
mor«m,&ll]uftrirs,Cardinaliumfenatucollocarunt,riccartirem-' 
perdete (pern fpopondcrunt, quam hoc duntaxat folio pr^ftare 
potcs -, in quo cc tandem Diuina prouidentia conftituto,{ veluti fpe , 
rabannis ) tua Bcatitudo vcntorum noftrorum rabiem vnius tuns 
iuiTionis momento compcfcuit .i4oc tux glorix referuacu, vt pole 
noftiadifficilliiiiaoppreflIone,tuaeBearicudini$clemcnti?,qqui-' 
tarifq; corona, prqclarior, maiorqjreddatur. H?c vera Principis 
laus exiftit, vt quamcunq; in partem vercat oculps; omnia maiilue-i 

A * li^w 
Dedication of De Pomis' Hebre-w Dictionary to Pope 
Sixtus V. sno-wing Papal Arms 
Di Gara, Vemce, 1587 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

1577 Galileo's Commentary on Ecclesiastes 

1578 Reshit Hokhmah 

1579 Seah Solet 
Marpe Lenefesh 
Orah Hayim 

1585 Menot Halevi (Comm. on Esther) 
Maon Hashoalim 

Hamon's Commentary on Ruth 

1586 Hazon Lamoed 

1587 Shalshelet Hakabbalah 

Perush Seder Abodat Yom Hakippurim 
Psalms 
Zemah David 
Or Neerab 

1588 Heshek Shelomo 
Maamez Ruah 
Debek Tob 

1589 Yoreh Hataim 
Nefuzot Yehudah 
Shaare Gan Eden 

1590 Oheb Mishpat 

1591 Habazelet Hasharon 
Kol Bokhim 
Haftarot 

1593 Reshit Hokhmah 
Shulhan Arukh 

1594 Khozari 

1595 Yesha Elohim 
Marpe Lenefesh 
Torat Haadam 

Tur Hoshen Mishpat 

[362] 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 



1595 


Menorat Hamaor 




Bible 


1597 


Yeriot Izim 




Asarah Maamarot 


1598 


Iggeret Dofi Hazeman 


1600 


Mahzor 


1601 


Sefer Hahinnukh 




Arze Lebanon 


1602 


Arugat Habosem 




Hamekah Vehamemkar 


1603 


Maase Adonai 




Marot Hazobot 


1604 


Sedei; Hayom 


1605 


Responsa of Alshekh 




Commentary on Semag by Joseph of Cre- 




mentz 




Torah Or 




Bet Moed 




Hibbur Maasiyot 


1607 


Massorot 




Mikveh Israel 


1608 


Lehem Setarim 


1609 


Toldot Yaakob 




Sifra 




Mishnah * 



The Hebrew Press of Venice from the middle 
of the sixteenth well into the eighteenth century 
was dominated by the House of Bragadini con- 

*After 1609 we hear no more of Di Gara though as late as 1616 a 
mahzor is printed "in his house." 

I 363 1 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

nected with many a family whose name is inscribed 
in the Golden Book from Alvise the founder of 
the house, down to Alvise III the last known mem- 
ber. Alvise, Giovanni, Pietro, Lorenzo, Alvise II, 
Girolamo, Giacomo, Vicenzo, Nicolo, Vicenzo II, 
Alvise III, — these are the generations of the 
Bragadini, proprietors of the Stamperia Bragadina 
whose books went out to all corners of the earth, to 
the depths of Poland and Russia to the North Sea 
to Holland and France to the Barbary Coast and 
to the recesses of the land of the Crescent.* Even 
their political and social influence as members of 
a family who together with the Giustiniani Cornaro 
and Bembo families were known as the four evan- 
gelists^the oldest families of Venice,! could not 
withstand the zeal of the dominant elements in the 
Church and in 1551 they suffered with the other 
Hebrew presses at Venice. 

After the "Strong Hand" of Maimonides pub- 
lished in 1551 which provoked the quarrel with the 
house of Giustiniani, Alvise Bragadini printed a 
number of books until the interdict in 1554,{ and 

* The later chiefs of the House of Bragadini farmed out some of 
their work to the presses of Lorenzo Pradotto, Domenico Vedelago, 
the Calleoni, Cristoforo Ambrosio, Giovanni dei Ragazzi and Giovanni 
dei Pauli. 

t Moreri "le grand dictionnaire historique" art. "Bragadini." 
j ISSl Yad Hahazakah 
Kiryat Sefer 
More Nebukhim 
Yore Deah 
1552 Alfasi 

Birkat Abraham 

Responsa of Asher b. Vehiel 

[364] 



133 

ftps WnP3 ip'3 9311^3 

:i30 



.^: 



fW^t ¥^i^'-^ k-' Con licsotia de 



I($, 



^ 



Title page of Cordovero s " S'weet Lignt 
D; Gara, Venice, 1587 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

upon the resumption of Hebrew printing in 1563 
he printed until his death in 1575.* 

Bragadini was fortunate in having as his fore- 
man so able and skilled a printer as Meir ben 
Jacob Parenzo. His forefathers had come from 
the Dalmatian coast and settled in the capital f 
and some time before the year 1545 Meir Parenzo 
learned his craft in the shop of the prince of printers 
Daniel Bomberg, where he was associated with 
Cornelio Adelkind. 

Meir's father was also a member of the craft 
and his death in 1546 is piously commemorated by 
his son in these words published in the colophon 
of a Yalkut issued in that year, "And now while I 
was in the midst of this work, alas the light of my 
eyes and the crown of my head was taken away, 
the pious one who was sought in the Court of 
Heaven, behold it was my father my master the 
distinguished Rabbi Jacob ibn Parenzo may his 
memory be a blessing. These are the words of 

1553 Mesharim 

Responsa of Meir of Padua 

Arukh 

Mayan Gannim 

Iggeret Derekh Adonai 

15 54 Megillat Setarira 

* Some of his books were: — 

1563 Tur Orah Hayyim 

1564 Meir Natib 

1565 Akedat Yizhak 
1574-75 Mishne Torah 

t Manzoni thought he was a Frenchman and that his name should 
be read Franzoni. In the Kozari 1547 he says in colophon "I am 
the printer known as Meir of Parenzo as that is the name of my city." 

[367] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

him who is engaged in this work of God, Meir ibn 
Parenzo who mourns his father." * After a short 
term of service at the press of Giustiniani he en- 
tered the employ of the House of Bragadini with 
whom he remained until his death, bearing to 
them the same relation as that of Adelkind to the 
house of Bomberg.f It is noteworthy that the 
Bragadini employed members of the family of 
Parenzo until far into the seventeenth century. 
The books published by Meir Parenzo are many 
of them quite as handsome as those published by 
Adelkind and show no sign of the approaching de- 
cline of the Venetian press. Although our records 
of Meir's activity are exceedingly meagre his train- 
ing in the shops of Bomberg and Giustiniani where 
he met the artists and skilled craftsmen of his time, 
his association with the distinguished French en- 
graver and typecutterGuillaume le Be, J his printer's 

* Meir attempted to print on his own account, probably at the 
Bomberg press in 1548-49, Yalkut, Meshal Hakadmoni, Khozari, Issur 
vehetter, during which time he is recorded as an independent printer 
in Cicogna's list as Mazo de Parenzo. Brown "Venet. Print. Press." 
In 1549 he printed part of the Mishnah in the house of Carlo Quirino. 
Cat. Bodl. 9496. 

t Meir and Cornelio collaborated, see p. 187. 

t The way in which the type was produced was as follows: — The 
artist, first of all, cut upon a punch of hard inetal a raised form of each 
letter. The excellence of his fount depended on the skill with which 
he executed this part of his business; 'his whole artistic resources were 
expended to render the form on the punch as perfect as possible. Im- 
pressions were taken from these punches in soft metal, and these were 
called the matrices (matres) or moulds, from which the actual type 
■(vas founded. The type, by use, might become blunt; the moulds, 
by use, might lose their clearness of line; but as long as the hard metal 
punches retained their form intact, the typographer could always renew 

[368] 




tt^ ^ 



oiDipn 







Title page of ^asnal Hakaamom 
Meir Parenzo, Venice; 1546 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

mark the beautiful candelabrum, the illustrations 
published in his Mashal Hakadmoni, all indicate 
that Meir Parenzo was not only a skillful but an 
artistic printer. 

There is some suggestion that Guillaume le Be 
had a law suit with Giustiniani arising out of a 
font of type, which was cut for Meir by Guillaume 

his fount. Punches lasted a long time. Jenson employed his one set 
during his eleven years of copious work, and they were worth be- 
queathing to his compeer Ugelleymer in 1480. And the punches for 
the type from which Aldus printed Bembo's Aetna, in 149S, lasted 
sixty years from that date. Brown, "Venet. Print. Press " page 18. 
Guillaume cut type for Giustiniani as well as Parenzo. M. Omont, 
in his monograph on the types of Guillaume Le Be, shows that Le Be, 
who was a pupil of Robert Etienne, came to Venice in 1S4S, and there 
cut Hebrew type for Marc' Antonio Giustinian, a Venetian noble who 
owned a Hebrew press at the Rialto, in the Calle delli Cinque alia 
Justizia Vecchia. Le Be talks of this type as la premiere de mes 
ouvrages, aage lors de 20 ans et huict moys. Le Be stayed in Venice 
till the year ISSO, when he went to Rome for the jubilee of Pope Julius 
HL During his five years sojourn in Venice he cut two kinds of Hebrew 
type for Giustinian and six kinds of Hebrew type for Mazo da Parenza. 
The fourth and fifth of Le Be's Hebrew types were cut coubz I'adveu 
de magnifique bout d'une ruelle regardant sur le quay de la Madona 
de rOrto. The sixth character was cut aussy en acier, faicte a Venize 
pour le dit May de Parensa, en une chambre que je tenoye a loyage 
a un ducat par moys, ayant veue sur le Camp de St. Lio, a coste de 
I'eglise. Le Be was in the habit of cutting his own name and that of 
Venice on the punches which he made there. His seventh Hebrew 
type was cast while he was at Rome for the papal jubilee, and his 
eighth was cut before the preceding character. But while Le Be was 
absent from Venice celui a qui je laissay mesdits poinsons en garde on 
a fait des frappa et tout mange, ayant vendue et poinsons et matrices 
a un AUemant, ainsy que de Dansi m'ont mande. While in Venice Le 
Be made drawings and designs for various characters, which he pre- 
served, and used in Paris as patterns for his fifteenth Hebrew type. 
The name of Mazo da Parenza does not occur in the copyrights; the 
name of Marc' Antonio Giustinian is recorded in Cicogna's list of 
Venetian printers. Brown, "Venet. Print. Press," pp. 105-106. 

[3701 



RESUMPTION OF PRESS AT VENICE 

le Be, but the reason for the suit is unknown and 
we can only guess at its cause. Another engraver 
Jacob of Mantua seems to have cut type for Meir 
Parenzo while he was in the employ of Giustiniani.* 
Meir Parenzo, somewhat more than his con- 
temporaries, made a pathetic bid for immortality 
by elaborately spreading his name on title page, 
introduction and colophon. But the trumpet of 
fame sounds no very loud note, and even the great 
brazen instruments that herald the deeds of the 
chosen ones sound but a faint echo when heard 
through the long corridors of the centuries. Meir 
Parenzo, notwithstanding his hope for immortality, 
is completely forgotten except by a small circle of 
Hebrew bibliographers who, although conscious 
that the individual contributions of the men they 
commemorate are negligible in the great current 
of human affairs as it flows majestically down 
through the ages, nevertheless hand down the 
names of those who sleep in the dust and preserve 
knowledge of the existence of so many faithful men 
who have contributed their share to the enlighten- 
ment of the world. 

* R. E. J. 16 : 308; Omont p. 7. 



[371 



CHAPTER XV. 

THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER. 

The Press of the Vendramini — The Succession of the 
Bragadini — The Tribulations of Jewish Bookmen — The 
Story of Leon da Modena — The Decline of Italy and Rise of 
the Netherlands — The Perpetual Interference of the Venetian 
Authorities and its Effect — The New Presses in Northern 
Europe Rise at the Expense of Venice — The Paltry Output 
of Other Italian Presses — Padua and Verona — The Story of 
Rabbi Abraham Saba — The Decline of Hebrew Printing — 
Chieri and Asti — The Humility of the Bookmen — The 
Polacco Family and the Foa — Sporadic Presses at Pisa, 
Mantua — The Rise and Progress of the Press at Leghorn — 
Florence — Modern Conditions in Italy. 

THE last of the important presses of Venice 
was established in 1631 by Giovanni Ven- 
dramin and conducted in his name until 1640, 
after which it was known as the Commissaria 
Vendramina and the Stamperia Vendramina and 
after its union with the Bragadini press, it con- 
tinued Until well into the eighteenth century. 
The old flourishing press of the Di Gara and the less 
important one of Zanetti had come to a standstill in 
1608-1609, unable to compete with the more 
powerful house of Bragadini, and oppressed by the 
persecuting mania that had finally attacked the 
presses of Venice, as well as all the rest of Italy. 
Of all of these noted presses there remained only 
the inconspicuous press at Leghorn, which although 
established in 1650 did not really flourish until 
1740. 

[i372] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

The House of Bragadini continued to enjoy a 
monopoly of Hebrew printing in Venice under 
Giovanni son of Alvise Bragadini who succeeded 
his father about 1579 and who in turn in 1614 
passed it on to his sons Pietro and Lorenzo. 
Giovanni's chief printer was Asher Parenzo, the 
brother of Meir Parenzo who had held a similar 
position at the press of his father.* After his 




Printers mark of Alvise Bragadini 

brother's death Asher seemed at a loss for a time 
and finally to use his own phrase, after turning this 
way and that and seeing no one assisting in the 
work of the press, he sat at the crossroads and 
watched for good books to help their publication.! 

* See p. 368. 

t See Mikrae Kodesh 1S86; among the books printed by him are: — 

1583 Reshith Daat 

1586 Mikrae Kodesh 

1589 Nefuzot Yehudah 

1S91 Pentateuch 

1594 Shenem Asar Derashat 

[373] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

In 1614 the press passed into the hands of Pietro 
and Lorenzo Bragadini who joined by Alvise II in 
1624 and Vicenzo, Nicolo, Giacomo and Girolamo 
in 1639 remained in possession until 1650 after 
which Girolamo Bragadini appears to have con- 
tinued alone. During the time of Pietro and 
Lorenzo the principal printer at their press was 
Giovanni Cajun * and the owners had become 
"clarissimi" and "illustrissimi signori" who no 
longer took any personal interest in their press but 
enjoyed an income from it without soiling their 
hands. Another printer who probably printed at 
their press was Giacomo Sarzino who printed 
several books of Leon Modena f and who was prob- 
ably the same person as Jacob Sorzinah of Cas- 
tellaz corrector of the press of Zanetti. Giacomo 
also was troubled by the compositors, that reckless 
class of workmen that has disturbed the happiness 
of publishers and authors even to our own days, 
for he says J "a very beautiful and divine inven- 
tion would printing be if it were not subject to fall 
into errors, and indeed, without exaggerating, it 
turns out very few books that are well done."^ 

* Some of his books are: — 

1617 Heshek Shelomoh 

1618 Shete Yadot and Responsa of Meir Lublin 

1619 Commentary on Canticles and Ez Shatul 
1 1612 Galut Yehudah 

1617 Leb Yehudah 

t Colophon of Galut Yehudah. 

If Troppo bella e divina inventione sarebbe la stampa de libri, se 
non fosse sottoposta ad incorrervi errori e ben che dove piu dove meno, 
pochissime pero sono quelle opere di essa, che ne escano nette a fatto. 

[374] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

Following Cajun came Giovanni Caleoni as the 
chief printer at this press * some of the books 
being printed in his house, Antonio Calleoni,t and 
Lorenzo Pradotto.J From 1667 to the end of the 
century, the press seems to have been known as 
the Stamparia Bragadina and not connected spe- 
cially with names of any of that family and during 
this time, among its printers, were Cristofolo 
Ambrosini.Tf Giovanni Doriguzzi,** and Domenico 
Bona.tt 




A Typical Bragadini ornament 

* 1623 Orhoth Hayim 

1625 Bet Lehem Yehudah 

1626 Kenaf Renanim 
Mahzor 

1628 Hibbur Havoth Yair 

1640 Pi Aryeh 

1^41 Midrash hehadush 

t 1644 Pentateuch 

16S5 Mishnah 

t 1659 Nahlat Zebi 

1667 Zibhe Zedek 

t 1671 Prayers 

1672 Mahzor and Emet veemunah 

** 1670 Kevanat Shelomoh 

tt 1687 Siddur (Spanish rite). 

[375] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

MASTER PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS AT 
VENDRAMIN PRESS. 

1633 Giovanni Caleoni 

1636-61 Giovanni Martinelli 

1643-51 Francesco Vieceri 

1651-56 Giovanni Imberti 

1657-65 Antonio Rizzini 

1663-64 Domenico Vedelago 

CORRECTORS AND FACTORS. 

1647 Samuel b. Shemaya 

1648-63 Moses Zacut 

1653 Jacob b. Naftali Gnesen 

1654 Isaac Bingen b. Samuel 

PRINTERS, COMPOSITORS, ETC. 

1651-64 Venturin b. David 

1651 Meir b. Zekhariah of Mestre 

1651 Jacob Hayim b. Abraham Flores 

1687 Solomon b. Isaiah Nizza 

1690 Jacob b. Isaac Levi 

1695 Isaac b. Jacob Levi 

1690 David b. Solomon Altaras 
Joseph b. Solomon Israel 

PARTIAL LIST OF BOOKS OF THE VENDRAMIN 

PRESS. 

1651 Maase Haya? 

1653 Yeven Mezulah? 

1654 Maarekhet Elijahu 

1655 Tub Haarez 

[376] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

1656 Zophenat Paaneah 

1657 Shemen Hatob 
Yefe Toar 

1662 Mizbah Yaakob 

1663 Mazzil Nefashat 
1665 Letters of Maimonides 

PARTIAL LIST OF LATER BRAGADINI BOOKS. 

1695 Meziz Umeliz 

1698 Birkhat Abraham 

1704 Hilkhot Ketannot 

1706 TefiUot 

1712 Bat Melekh & Zera Kodesh 

1713 Hobot Halebabot 
1720 Ashmoret Haboker 

Hemed Elohim 
1728 Tikkun Lei Hoshaanah Rabbah 
1730 Tikkun Lei Shabuot 

1735 Selihot 

1736 Arba Taaniyot 

1737 Parshiyot 

1739 Bible 

1740 Parts of Mishneh Torah 
1760 Ozar Nehmad 

Mehadesh Hadashim 
1778 Amud di Rashi 
1795 Maamadot veshir hayihud 

PARTIAL LIST OF BOOKS OF STAMPERIA 
BRAGADINA E VENDRAMINA 

1700 Yad Haruzim 
1703 Or Kadmon 

[377] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 



1704 


Ez hadaat 


1744 


Mussar Melakhim 


1746 


Kore Hadorot 


1753 


Tikkun for Hoshaana Rabbah 


1762 


Sekhiyot Hahemda 


1772 


Mdhzor 



At the end of the sixteenth century the Jews of 
Venice had adopted a self-censorship that had 
rendered them freer from the restrictions of 
ofificial censorship than in any other Italian state.* 

Perhaps nothing will better illustrate the con- 
dition of the Hebrew book business and the tribu- 
lation of Jewish authors than some biographical 
extracts from the books of Rabbi Yehuda Aryeh 
known as Leon of Modena who was rabbi at Venice 
and who died in 1684. About 1616 he wrote a 
book in Italian entitled "History of Hebrew Rites", 
at the request of an English nobleman who desired 
to present it to the learned King James I of Eng- 
land who was notably interested in theological 
matters. Knowing that the work was to remain 
in manuscript and was intended for Protestant 
readers, Leon da Modena wrote many things that 
the censors of the Inquisition could not have 
passed. About twenty years thereafter he showed 
the manuscript to a noted French scholar GafTa- 
relli who, after having read it, begged the privi- 
lege of printing it in Paris and Leon consented. 
Two years later on the second day of the Passover 

* Popper p. 94. 

[378] 




^«*^^1,< 



p^)n 




■^ -T-nt-y^ 






Ip. 



p r j^ 



s 






Mr 



rp i rP c iD r^ o n i -vi -q-h| ^ 



ji™ PP y -Tpf- 

OSU Trfprr' rt> 



kpcSp - 




•as? 






r^tioTiB 



ji ]" ; 3 — I ,<"[; 3 o"wi) 
lii^p aTi*^ yfi> p ^•p■>7■ i 

[j'—S^jW^m C T" 3 j> ^ i^t " >rp 1^ pinp3 

^(^ i •" r c t BO ii-fij tJt J^raw *» 

■f r n tf'V^J-iP' '-V St J5p i n& (r;p3 

T^jl r ■^irO' IB i 71 in -^ r v^i-mirjf-ca 
one T JSPom "tj^j-h: ODJin je b"j'"T tj j ita) 

J^f-W J"^ ITf "^ JSI otic C"J^ip^ 3 J JTMO 
TEC C oir D n f" P"^i TpS^tTTPp) ^rOiJ^ J T" J«i(J 

p rP^w rapj'P7'^>» ot i or o-p 3ictnpr^l^irn 
WT' ■K'5 3ir3P -j:^ L-t asii" i*^ p 

r>ri ■n>i' T3°7 ■ p'to i^f" Pifc ■'W!r«c )i Jww>t-f> uy>8> c^Rni 



-"1D*P1 3 fs™*=! 



From Yalkut Sliimeoni 
Bragadini. Venice. 1566 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

in 1637 Leon received a letter from Gaffarelli at 
Paris announcing that the book was printed, 
whereupon Leon writes: "I became very anxious 
and hurried to look at the copy of the manuscript 
which I had kept. I then noticed four or five forc- 
ible expressions which the Inquisition had for- 
bidden to be uttered, not to say written or printed. 
I cried aloud in my terror because I thought that 
if this work became known in Rome it would be- 
come a pitfall for all the Jews, and it would be said, 
How impudent are these Jews for not only do they 
instruct Christians in their laws in the vernacular 
but they even write against our religion and de- 
crees. For myself I expected the most terrible 
consequences. I exaggerated the danger because, 
after all, the things that I had said were not so 
very offensive. As a matter of precaution I 
entered a prehminary notice at the office of In- 
quisition stating that a book of mine had appeared 
through another person without my knowledge 
and without my revision. I was received in a 
friendly manner and I finally consoled myself. 
Shortly thereafter Gaflfarelli traveled to Rome and 
from there sent me a printed copy, and I then saw 
to my great satisfaction that he himself had been 
careful enough to strike out the passages that I 
had feared. He wrote a preface to the book in 
which he covered me with praise, and dedicated 
the book to the French Ambassador at Venice who 
sent me a letter of thanks. Although I was now 
relieved of my anxiety I was still afraid that much 

[381] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

in the book might displease Christians, and this 
consideration, together with the other that in this 
Paris edition there were many typographical 
errors, induced me to prepare a second edition from 
which I omitted and to which I added whatever 
I found necessary." * 

We shall better understand his fear when we 
read of the persecution to which he was subjected 
as related by him in another book "The House of 
Judah." He says: "In Adar 1634 I began to 
print my book 'The House of Judah' and I longed 
for nothing so much as to see it finished and spread 
throughout Israel, for I felt satisfied that through 
it I would obtain honor and an immortal name. 
A long time passed however before it was finished 
in Heshvan 1635 for in EUul 1634 informers had 
slandered the book before the Cattaveri, and as a 
result the press was closed for six months. There- 
after the work went on again under the direction 
of my grandson Isaac the Levite who had been 
engaged in printing for about two years. On the 
28th day of lyyar 1635 my grandson and his two 
assistants were suddenly arrested at the printing 
house put into a dark dungeon and the house 
sealed up and I was much grieved because I was 
unable to secure their release. However after 
fifteen days of effort they were permitted to go out 
from darkness into light, but kept in the prison 
where they remained for sixty-six days, and I 
came and went daily in great distress and incurring 

* Geiger "Leon Modena." 

[382] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 



great expense. Finally by the mercy of God, the 
Criminal Court acquitted them on Tammuz the 
28th 1635."* Such attacks upon printers were 
quite common. The officers of the Inquisition 
without notice to their victims seized them put 
them away into dark prisons, perhaps the famous 
dungeons of the ducal castle to which not a ray 




From Maskal HakaJmoni 
Meir Parenzo, Venice, 1546 

of daylight could penetrate, sometimes subjecting 
them to torture always to a severe inquisitorial 
investigation. If the prisoners were fortunate 
enough to be released from such long and merciless 
incarceration, they were usually broken in health 
and spirit and unfitted to carry on their work. 

The seventeenth century witnessed the gradual 
decline of the power of Venice. When Vasco da 

* Geiger, ibid. 

[383] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Gama rounded the Cape of Good Hope he struck 
her maritime supremacy a blow from which she 
never recovered, for weakened in the very heart of 
her power she was unable to survive the political 
catastrophies that followed each other in rapid 
succession. The Netherlands quick to take ad- 
vantage of the opportunities offered by trade with 
the Indies began to develop and prosper, and 
Antwerp and Amsterdam took the place in the 
commercial world so long held by Venice. 

Contemporaneously with the decline of political 
and commercial supremacy, Venice together with 
the rest of Italy suffered from the gradual encroach- 
ment of the militant Church. The Papacy which 
had for several centuries flourished as a political 
power had gradually undermined the liberties of 
the Italian States and by its policy of suppression 
deprived them not only of political initiative, but 
of all those instrumentalities of progress and civi- 
lization necessary to the prosperity of a free State. 
Education instead of being controlled by learned 
laymen was relegated to the charge of various 
monastic orders, and freedom of inquiry and in- 
tellectual liberty yielded to ignorance and intol- 
erance, which degraded Italy from her once high 
estate and inflicted wounds that the efforts of the 
last half century have not yet been able to heal. 

The self-censorship established by the Jews of 
Venice resulted in the practice of requiring a 
rabbinical approbation printed after the title page 
of the books, as a certificate of the orthodoxy of 

[384] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

the book and its freedom from passages that might 
prove offensive to Christians. But this regulation 
by no means supplanted censorship and there were 
at least three bodies established by law to check 
the multiplication of Hebrew books. The Council 
of Ten in addition to its political and adminis- 
trative concerns found time to meddle with He- 
brew books; the "Essecutori contra la Blastema" 
were specially created to prevent all sorts of 
blasphemies, including blasphemies expressed or 
implied in Hebrew books; the "Reformatori 
della studio in Padoa" were the university authori- 
ties whose approval was required before publica- 
tion, and finally there were the Cattaveri, a Coun- 
cil or License Board, consisting of three noblemen 
whose rights were after the beginning of the 
seventeenth century transferred to the Reforma- 
tori. 

This board was in charge of many other mat- 
ters concerning the Jews, and in connection with 
the supervision of books and the issuance of 
licenses for publication they particularly exercised 
the function of raising revenue for State purposes. 
After the book had run the gauntlet of criticism 
a license was issued by the Council of Ten, in form 
substantially like the following one which appears 
in the edition of Leon da Modena's "Heart of the 
Lion"— 

"The undersigned, the most excellent Signori, 
Chiefs of the Excellent Council of Ten, having 
faith in the Signori, the Supervisors of Study at 

[385] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Padua, namely, in the report made by two of them 
delegated for that purpose, to wit, the Rev. Father 
Inquisitor and the Secretary of the Senate, Gio- 
vanni Maraviglia, who have made oath that in the 
book entitled 'Lev,' i.e., 'Heart of the Lion,' they 
found nothing against the law and that it is worthy 
to be printed — grant a license that it may be printed 
in this city. 

Given the 5th day of May, 1612. 
(Signed) D. ZUANE DANDOLO, 
D. AND. CONTARINI, 
D. GIUST. ANTO. BELEGNO, 

Chiefs of the Exc. Council of X. 
BARTH. COMINUS, 
Secretary of the Illust. Council of X. 
Registered, etc. 

ANT. LAURED, 
Notary of the Office Against Blasphemy." 

We are not surprised to learn that toward the 
end of the seventeenth century Hebrew books had 
become quite rare in Venice, for the history of the 
Hebrew press indicates the history of the larger 
movement that affected all Europe. With the 
decline of Italy under the yoke of the Church came 
the rise of the free States of Northern Europe 
which had won their religious and political inde- 
pendence. 

When Cardinal Richelieu was engaged in 
building up the Bibhotheque Nationale at Paris 
a correspondent of his special agent sent to collect 
Hebrew books reported that there was not a single 

[386] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

Jewish library in Venice, and that the only things 
published there were prayer books and rituals.* 
The Hebrew printers had been driven from their 
ancient home to seek an asylum elsewhere. The 
presses established at Constantinople in 1503 and 
Salonica in 1515 flourished under the liberal and 
humane regime of Mohammedan rulers. The 
presses that had been established in the Slavonic 
lands, at Prague in 1518, Cracow 1534, LubHn 
1559, did as well as was possible in the midst of 
barbarism. At Amsterdam an important press 
was established in 1627 under the direction of the 
distinguished Menasseh ben Israel, and it was to 
this press above all others that the presses of Italy 
yielded their importance. Amsterdam was a typi- 
cal Northern community of free men on a free soil, 
where Jews driven from Southern Europe by the 
intolerant followers of the Church were free to con- 
tribute their share to the intellectual, mercantile 
and industrial life of the community. The city of 
Frankfurt am Main although not specially dis- 
tinguished for its press became the great Hebrew 
book market for its fairs brought together in large 
numbers the Jews of Germany and the Slavonic 
States. Notwithstanding the rivalry of other cities, 
it has maintained a respectable position in this 
field even to this day. 

The conditions that prostrated the press at 
Venice affected the whole Italian peninsula. Pa- 
dua and Verona which in 1405 had come under the 

* Perles "Beitraege"' p. 231. 

[387] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

dominion of Venice were completely dependent on 
the policy of that great city. In neither of these 
cities were Hebrew books printed until 1563 when 
Lorenzo Pasquato printed the "Way of Faith" — 
the first of the five books printed in Padua during 
the 16th and 17th centuries, a paltry number for 
the ancient city whose University was one of the 
great institutions of learning of the world. As 
Steinschneider puts it, there were in Padua nearly 
as many Hebrew printers as Hebrew books, for 
following the "Way of Faith" we have record of 
the Homilies of Rabbi Shemtob printed in 1567, 
the "Inheritance of Jacob" and a volume of 
Lamentations printed by Gaspare Crivellari in 
1622-3 and a lexicon by Leon da Modena printed 
by Giulio Crivellari in 1640.* 

The record of Verona is hardly more important. 
Its principal printer was Francesco dei Rossi, who 
during the six years from 1646 to 1652 with the 
assistance of a number of Jewish editors and proof- 
readers printed about ten books.f Before his 

* Ersch & Gruber 46. He printed the first book at Este near 
Padua in 1643 and was probably the founder of the press at BassEino 
in 16S7. Fumagalli 114. In 1739 a Hebrew grammar was printed 
there. 

t "Thrones of the House of David" printed 1646, contains the 
following license: 

Faccio fede io Sebastian Venier Awocato a ci" deputo dal santis- 
simo officio dell' Inquisitione d'haver veduto un libro hebreo in quarto 
intitolato Chisod lebeth David cibe sedia della casa di David auttor 
Leon di David del Bene comincia ialzii e cibe s'essalteranno le miseri- 
cordia finisce uva lezion goel cibe venira Sion recuperatore di tutti num 
200- Seb. Veron. qui sup. mari prop. 

Commissarius sancti ofKcii Venet. Provicarius sancti 
officii Verona vidit has litteras. 

[388] 



^ ^ ^ 2 ^fcsti- ^fciia? i^fcs*?; (!i*j; cfce^ «yi* Q^ 












>^etn©;?min' Vttim 



"5"»? IP3 



.1? 



mr' inc> 



•oy» 



hi 

S^^4S t^- Verona Pel jlRoin. Con Lircnciadf Slip, ^^f^ 
^fr^, ^'^^ ^feW? y»fi «|*i' r r<J.W'S t£f ?3 ?f*i ^A^ 5«*3? 

Title page of " Ttrones of tte House of David " 
Rossi, Verona^ 1646 



I'M ' j-)i?ft> IP nop 

■'nj73 ip-irj iito 7j5j3 Tioti Jb )pj|ftp 
J>} 5> rJF Mr" CTf Jp 'jJ I'seij;? 
i» pi^J orifr o;> I'PJ •»!• 
: onrc?i ot;? 

C7t?l5M> 






Pfi-i> 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

day there had been no Hebrew printing at Verona 
except in the years 1594^5 when Francesco delle 
Donne assisted by a member of the Bak family of 
printers at Prague published two books * at the 
press estabHshed by Sebastiano delle Donne in 
1570.t A few Biblical books were followed in 
1650 by the first part of an edition of the Mishnah 
which was finished in Leghorn, 1656. Notwith- 
standing this meagre record of Hebrew books, the 
Jews of Verona in all other respects were not be- 
hind other communities in their contributions to 
the history of their people. Their activities like 
their sufferings were those common to the times. 
Like the Jews of Padua they entered the ghetto as 
a result of priestly agitation in 1604, and like all 
other cities they added their quota to the list of 
martyrs faithful unto death. 

In the cemetery of Verona there lies Rabbi 
Abraham Saba a Castilian scholar and the author 
of half a dozen widely read books. In 1497 he 
was exiled from Portugal, and his stirring words 
present a thrilling picture of what life meant to 
the Jews in Catholic countries. 

"Then the anger of the Lord burnt against his 
people, so that all the Jews who were in Portugal 
were ordered by King Emanuel, God blot out his 
name and memory! to leave the land within a cer- 
tain time. Nor was this enough; but after the 
King had commanded that boys and girls should 

* Minhah Belulah, Midrash Tanhuma. Ersch & Gruber 62. 
t Fumagalli 515. 

[390] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

be torn from their parents for baptism and Chris- 
tian education, and then that we should be de- 
prived of our synagogues, he ordered that all our 
books should be seized. So I brought all my 
books into the city of Porto (Oporto) in obedience 
to the royal decree; but yet I took my life in my 
hands by carrying with me to Lisbon the 'Com- 
mentary on the Law' which I had composed, as 
well as a commentary to the treatise 'Ethics of 
the Fathers' and one to the 'Five Scrolls.' 

"But when I reached Lisbon all the Jews came 
to me and told me that it had been proclaimed to 
the community that every Jew who might be 
found with a book or with phylacteries in his 
possession would be put to death. So straightway 
before I entered the quarter outside the city I 
took these books in my hand; two brothers went 
with me and dug a grave among the roots of a 
blossoming olive tree; there we buried them. 
And although a tree flourishing with lovely fruit 
stood there yet because of the Law which was 
within it did I call it 'Tree of Sorrow' ; for I had 
buried there all that was pleasant in my sight — 
the commentary on the Laws and the Command- 
ments, more precious than gold, yea, than much 
fine gold. For in them I had found consolation 
for the loss of my two little ones torn from me by 
force to become unwilling converts. And I had 
said, 'These (books) are the inheritance of those 
who worship God; therefore must they be better 
for me than even sons and daughters.'" 

[ 391 ] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

A century of such persecution so debased the 
taste of Jewish booklovers that in the seventeenth 
century we find the presses of Italy putting out 
books that at an earUer day would have been 
thrown aside as waste paper and buried in the 
Genizah of some synagogue. Compare the poor 
battered types and the tasteless title borders of 
the "Thrones of the House of David," printed at 
Verona in 1646 at the press of Francesco dei Rossi 
by three Polish printers from Cracow or "A Token 
for Good," printed at Chieri in 1627 by the author, 
with the noble works of the presses of Soncino, 
Bomberg, Di Gara and the early Bragadini. The 
"Token for Good" appears to have been the work 
of the press of one Joseph ben Gerson Conzio, who 
also printed at Asti,* and whose son deserves 
mention. Angelo Brofiferio an Italian student 
of typography notes that the press was established 
by Abraham Conzio the son of Joseph Conzio as 
a pious tribute to the memory of his father in order 
to print the works that he had left in manuscript.f 

Chieri is in Piedmont ruled by the Dukes of 
Savoy, who had gradually absorbed most of the 
principal cities of Northern Italy and who even- 

* Conzio printed at Chieri : — 

1627 Ot letobah, Maagal tob 

1628 Dibre Esther 

1629 Mareh Hayim 

1630 Mekom binah 

At Asti: 1628 Shir Yehudith (J. E. 4 : 203). 
At Asti he printed at the press of Virgilio and Francesco Giangrandi. 
Fumagalli 83. 

tH. B. 17 :14. 

[392] 



si ;S» T^^'"' I'l""' '"P"" l*""^ 1^'' I'*^ tp" iK 

2?^ ^-'^ 



Title page of "A token for Good 
Concio, CKieri, 1627 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

tually mounted the throne of a united Italy. 
They seem to have been comparatively free from 
prejudice and were lenient in the enforcement of 
ecclesiastical decrees against Hebrew books. An 
old decree of the Duke, promulgated in 1572 at 
the instance of Messer Vitale di Sacerdoti whose 
Italian name probably hides the Hebrew name 
Hayyim Cohen, provided that the Jews might 
print keep in their houses and carry abroad all 
sorts of Hebrew books except those prohibited by 
the Apostolic Index of Pope Pius IV.* As the 
presses declined and the general condition of the 
people grew worse, it seems as though the heart 
were taken out of the erstwhile proud scions of the 
ancient House of Israel. Humility bred by the 
necessity for avoiding the constantly uplifted 
heavy hand of oppression breathes throughout 
their lives and colors their every act. Even within 
their own walls they hardly dared stand erect and 
their self abasement is reflected in peculiar oriental 
form of politeness in speaking of themselves. No 
man speaks of himself other than the "Katon," 
the "little one," and bursts into glowing eulogium 
of the person addressed. In the printed books this 
expression of self abasement became more and more 
extravagantly exaggerated until we have men of 
distinction speaking of themselves as "the old man 
who has not gained wisdom," f "the fox, son of 
the lion,"t "dust of the ground, like unto nothing- 

* R. E. J. S : 227-236. 

t MeshuUam b, Abraham Pinkerli in Hilkhot Ketannot 1704. 

X Jacob b. Samuel Hagiz, ibid. 

[394] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

ness," * "a worm, not a man," f "the little one 
and poorest among the poor," J"a tail of the lions,"^ 
"the lowly one who has no knowledge of books but 
gropes among them like a blind man."** The 
books themselves bear traces of the degeneration 
of the taste of the publisher and readers. To 
what other cause can be ascribed their uncritical 
blindness than to the general depression of spirit 
and wretchedness of life that accompanied and 
followed the wars pestilence and religious oppres- 
sion under which the Jew suffered much more than 
any other element of the people. 

The struggle for mere existence absorbed all 
active energy; their little leisure was devoted to 
charity and prayer; there was no time for things 
of beauty. When David b. Rafael Hayim Bueno 
printed a prayer book in 1706 at the Bragadini 
press, he proudly speaks of its beautiful type; in 
fact the type is anything but beautiful. So at a 
later date Benjamin b. Aaron Polacco prints a 
manual for the night service of Hoshaanah Rabbah 
and Shabuot with the poorest types. The publica- 
tion in 1712 of the "Daughter of the King" and the 
"Holy Seed" at the Bragadini press illustrates one 
aspect of this general condition of depression. 
Solomon b. David Altaras the corrector records 

♦Abraham b. Solomon Haber Tob in Responsa of Meir Lublin 
1618. 

t Judah b. Moses Naftali in Pentateuch 1560. 
t Jacob b. Josefa Sorsina of Castellaz in Tanna debe Eliyahu 1598. 
fLeon Modena in Hahinukh, 1601. 
** Mordecai b. Benzion Ghirondi. 

[395] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

that the printing of the book began at Frankfurt 
but before it was finished the Frankfurt Juden- 
gasse was burned* and the people barely escaped. 
The unfinished books in the house of the Christian 
printer were saved and were taken to Venice there 
to be finished at the Bragadini press by Menahem 
Folacco. 

The Polacco family of printers whose names 
appear in many books during this century were 
as the name indicates Polish Jews. Menahem and 
his brother Benjamin sons of Aaron Polacco f and 
Menahem b. Isaac Polacco printed a number of 
books until the sixth decade. 

The family of Foa of Sabbioneta threw out 
branches that flourished in Venice and Pisa. Dr. 
Isaac Foa of Venice had books especially printed 
for his little five year old son Gad for his pleasure 
and instruction in 1735 and for some years there- 
after } and Dr. Samuel Foa who likewise had a 
son Gad did the same for him.^ Gad son of Isaac 
Foa who printed for the Bragadini-Vendramin 
presses, in turn had books printed for his son Isaac 
in 1760** and in 1762t"|" and seems to have had a 

* Jany 14-15, 1711. See Kracauer, Die Gesch. d. Judengasse in 
Frankf. a M. p. 334. 

t "Stampator Ebraico in Ca Bragadini." See license printed in 
"Parts of Mishneh Torah" 1740. 

J 173S Selihot. 1739 Bible. 

K 1736 Arba Taaniyot, ornamented with the Foa arms, a palm 
tree with Magen David and two lions rampant similar to the printer's 
mark of Tobia Foa of Sabbioneta. 

** Ozar Nehmad. 

tt Sekhiyot hahemda. 

[396] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

press of his own as late as 1795.* Gad son of 
Samuel Foa preserved the tradition of the family 
by publishing school books printed at both Ven- 
dramin and Bragadini presses,! published in 1778 
Rashi's commentary on portions of the Bible. In 
1785 he had established a press of his own at Pisa 
known as the Stamperia Fua or Foa. J He was 
followed at Pisa by members of the Molcho family, 
Samuel & Joseph who printed several books aided 
by Jacob Tobiana and Jacob Nunez Vais.^ At 
Mantua the d'ltalia family resumed printing about 
the end of the second decade of the Eighteenth 
century assisted by Benjamin Polacco of Venice.** 

* Maamadot veshir hayihud. 
t See Hemed Elohim 1720. 

JMeil Zedaka, Bigda Kodesh. Partial list of Jewish printers, 
compositors and correctors at Bragadini press: — 
1700 Simha Calimani 

Zalkaman b. Yekutiel Richetti 
1700-46 Meir di Zara 

1707 Moses Hai b. Joseph Venturin 
1712-19 Solomon b. David Altaras 
1712-60 Menahem b. Aaron Ashkenazi Polacco 
Benjamin b. Aaron Ashkenazi Polacco 
1720 Hananiah Marun 

David b. Rafael Hayim Bueno 
1720-78 Gad b. Samuel Foa 
1720-60 Mordecai b. Solomon Civita 
1741 Isaac Foa 

1760 Menahem b. Isaac Polacco 
1760-2 Isaac b. Gad Foa 
179S Gad b. Isaac Foa 
^ 1810 Amer naki 

Mahzor (Tunis rite) 
1818 Mazref Lasekhel 
Sine data Oheb Mishpat 
Mishpat Zedek 
** 1724r-27. 

[397] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Dr. Rafael Hayim d'ltalia conducted the press for 
about fifty years and was succeeded by his son 
Eliezer Solomon d'ltalia likewise a physician who 
printed until near the beginning of the 19th cen- 
tury. Perhaps the most important work of this 
press was the Minhat Shai 1742-44 a grammatical 
work by Jedidiah Solomon Norzi.* 

The press at Leghorn, however, which began 
about the middle of the seventeenth century was 
to play a more important part because it became 
the only Italian source of supply for the peninsula 
and the Orient. Its productions, nearly all lit- 
urgical and Kabbalistic, had neither beauty nor 
intrinsic value and were intended to satisfy the 
simple tastes of a people living for the time far 
beyond the cultural influence of the best in their 
own literature. 

Under the enlightened policy of the Duke of 
Tuscany Leghorn received a great influx of Jews 

* Partial list of Mantua publications : — 

1723 Shulhan Arukh 

1724 Kelale hadikduk 
1737 Seliha Yafah 
1740 Seder Nahon 

1742-44 Minhat Shai 

1744 Pene Yizhak 

1777 Seder hehaarakhah 

1778 Shir Yedidut 
1781 Psalms 

1785 Rashe habekhain 
1785 Kerobot for Simhat Torah 
1788 Prayers for victory of Joseph II's Army 
Steinschneider mentions Emunat Hahamim printed by Alb. Pan- 

zoni the archducal printer at the press of San Benedetto. Cat. Bodl. 

2286. 

[398] 













n3;r3 -rysy 

MDHKTna 



o 



n 




U 



z 



B 



I d^j^LcL c uit J 








Title page oi Zophenat Paanean 
Martinelli, Venice, 1661 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

who had contributed largely towards its importance 
as a commercial centre. From about 1650 to 1660 
Jedidiah b. Isaac Gabbai author of the work en- 
titled Kaf Nahat maintained a press known as the 
press "del Kaf Nahat". * His books bore a 
shield with six flowers and the arms of the Duke 
and his printer's mark, three crowns and the motto 
"These are three crowns but the crown of a good 
name is above all of them", testifies to the proper 
pride of the man of good fame. 

For nearly a century, no Hebrew books ap- 
peared at Leghorn. In 1740 Rafael Meldola and 
a partner named Ricci established a pressf and since 
then up to the present Leghorn has continued to 



* He published among other books the following :- 
1650 Asharot 
16S6 Ez Hayim 

Responsa of David Simra 
Dabar beitto 
Tur Pitda 
Toldot Adam 
1658 Keneset Hagedolah 
1660 Yalkut Shimeoni 
t 1740 Kinat Soferim 

Seder Tikkun Shobebim 
Kontres Hok leyisrael 

1742 Hose Zion 

1743 Seder Hamizmorim 
Seder Arba Taaniyot 

1745 Shiba Enayim 

Correctors and printers: — 

Isaac b. Moses di Paz 

David Hayim b. Samuel Bazi Cohen 

Moses b. Rafael Meldola 

David b. Solomon Hassan 

Zebi b. Joseph Hacohen of Hamburg 

[400] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

supply Cabbalistic books and liturgical works for 
the African, Asiatic as well as Italian Jews. At 
the same time another press was established by 
Eliezer Saadon which seems to have lasted for 
about fifty years during a portion of which he had 
as partner Abraham Isaac Castello.* Among 
other printers were Abraham Meldola,t Moses 
Athias,J Carlo Giorgi,T[ Giovanni Vincenzo Fal- 

* 1743 LeDavid Emet 

1780 Letters of Moses Zacut 

1787 Veshob Hakohen 

1788 Derekh Yeshara 
1796 Shomer Mussar 

The following approbation appears in the letters of Moses Zacut: 
Os Muy ill. S. S. Pamassim, Sed. 

Ulst (Vist) a E^cania feita e establesida pelos S. S. Hahamim nella 
firmados em ordem ab Deer, de S. S. do dia 3 JuUio 1780 do theor a qual. 
Vist e consid. quanto. 

Decretarao e Decretando aprovarao e aprovao ditta Escania tal 
qual em ella e a Mesma permetterao imprimirse respectivamente nos 
libros de que se tratta juntamente com esta approvacao de S. S. Muy 
111. affirm. ^ tudo ec. orani ec. 

Isaac Vita Recanati P. P. 
Paltiel Semah 
Isaque Vais Villa Real 
Moise Correa Belmonte 
Liorne em 16 JuUio 1780 
Foy Leido e publicado presente Deer, por mi abaixo assignado 
Cancell. presentes os S. S. Reuben Isurun Lopeo e Mordohai Marache. 
Test. Manuel Nunes Cancell. 

1 1743 Shibhe Todah 

1 1762 Hemdat Yamim 1766 Siah Yizhak 

Compositors: — 

Moses b. Jona Ashkenazi of Constantinople 
Joseph b. Abraham Ashkenazi of Furth 
Moses Hai b. Jacob Rafael Milol. 
f 1772 Hokhmat hamisken 1776 Korban Hagigah 

1773 Yefe Nof 1779 Hamakhria 

Printer, Moses Hai b. Rafael Milol 
Publisher, Jacob b.Isaac Nunez Vais. 

[401] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

erno,* and Jacob Nunez Vais, who after having 
published at the presses of the others entered into 
partnership with the founder of the Livornese 
press the aged Rafael Meldola.f 

In the nineteenth century the press at Leghorn 
prospered steadily and is today the most important 
Hebrew press in Italy. Moses Joshua b. Jacob 
Tobianna was the first of the new printers of this 
century ; and his press after a long career J was 
bought and continued by Israel Costa & Co.^ 
whose business was in turn bought by the son of 
Rabbi Abraham Baruch Piperno and continued 
under the old firm name.** 

Eliezer b. Menahem Ottolenghi who called him- 
self "printer and bookseller," a designation adopted 
by all the Livornese printers, established a press 
which had a successful career of about twenty 

* 1777 Mahne Reuben 

1789 Tikkun Soferim 

1790 Shaar haheshek 
1797 Derekh Vesharah 
Publisher, Jacob Nunez Vais. 

1 1784 Abodat Hatamid 

1791 Likute tehillim 

1 1822 Mesillat Yesharim 
1840 Hadar Zekenim 

iH 1867 Letters of Azulai 

1868 Maase Shaashuim 

1878 Petah enayim 

1891 Rokheb Arabot 

1892 Shibhe Pesah 

** H. B. 6 : 109. 

[402] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

years,* and was continued by his heirs.f Solomon 
Belforte & Co., J and Elijah Benamozegh Tf are 
two important printers of our times, and with a 
mere mention of two of the earlier printers Sanson 
Gentilomo ** and Jacob b. Judah Ashkenazi & 
Brother,ft we may close our list of printers of 
Leghorn. 

Here and there attempts were made under 
varying conditions to print Hebrew with but little 



*1824 


Pirke Abot 


1830 


Mibhar hamaamarim 


1831 


Pene hamayim 


1834 


Bible with Italian marginal translation of difficult words. 




A copy of a similar work published by the Bragadini 




press in 1739 


1836 


Tikkune Shabbat 


1839 


Maor veshemesh 


t 1858 


Sheber bath Ammi 


11836 


Moade Adonai 


1841 


Kerie Moed 


1846 


Aseret hadebarim 


1858 


Maskil lemosheh 


1864 


Nora Tehillot 


1873 


Hanokh lanaar 


1878 


Megalle Amukot mini hoshekh 


1879 


Letters of Saadya 


1884 


Sabua tob 


1891 


Haggadar (Tunis rite) 


1892 


Canticles 


111852 


Sas anokhi 


1858 


Sebahim Shelamim 




Psalms 


1861 


Hamebasser 


1864 


Beer Yizhak 




Zikhron Yerushalayim 


1866 


Hesed veemet 


1890 


Masat Benjamin 


** 1838 


Psalms. 


tt 1857 


Seder Bene Yisrael. 



[403] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

success. To Ferrara one time famous for its 
Hebrew press came Girolamo Filoni from Ficarolo 
in 1693.* After printing one Hebrew book,t a 
prayer book compiled by two Mantuan Jews, he 
melted his Hebrew letters and made Latin letters 
of them,{ an act that tells its own tale without 
need of further comment. In Montefiascone a 
town lying a few miles north of Viterbo the press 
of the Episcopal Seminary printed a Hebrew 
grammar in 1706 dedicated to the founder of the 
seminary library, the Cardinal Marcantonio Bar- 
badico. In Florence the court printer Francesco 
Moiicke a litterateur and scholar ^ printed a 
Hebrew prayer book with new type for Joseph 
Gabbai Villareal and his brother in 1715 by special 
permission and favor of the Duke Giovanni Gasto 
di Medici. Witness the long Latin privilegium 
which is printed in the book.** 

* Fumagalli 129. 
t Siddur Miberakhah. 
{ Ersch & Gruber 45. 
if Fumagalli 147. 
** Privilegium to Seder TefiUot Firenze 475. Press of Francesco 
Moiicke. 

JOANNES GASTO 

Dei Gratia 

Magnus Dux Etruriae, etc. 

Cum Franciscus Mo'cke Typographus Florentinus, necnon in 

hac Civitate Librorum Negociator Nobis humiliter exposuerit se 

Libros Hebraicos, & Rascenses summa cum impensa typis editurum, 

& timens ne ab aliorum Typographorum arte aliquid detrimenti huic 

novo Operi inferatur; inde preces Nobis porrexerit, ut lege ad decen- 

nium valitura sub certae poenae sanctione interdiceremus, ne in uUis 

nostrarum Ditionum Civitatibus, vel locis praedicti Libri tarn editi, 

quam interum per dictum Mo'^cke edendi, imprimerentur; Nos animo 

[404] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

In the 19th century Florence again saw a Hebrew 
press established by Rabbi Hananya Elhanan 
Cohen or as his Italian name runs Graziadio Vita 
Anania Coen at which he the "pastor of the holy 
flock" printed a special prayer on the rededication 
of the synagogue in 1828.* In his native Reggio 
where he established a Rabbinical school, he 
printed school books on religion and ethics f at 
the press of Davoho. 

versantes hoc in perenne decus Etruriae nostrae fore cessurura, & 
laudabilem aequitatem, qua Summi Principes novorum Operum 
Auctoribus consulere solent, sequentes & justae supradicti Francisci 
Moucke petition! clementer annuere volentes, universis, & singulis 
Impressoribus, Typographis, Bibliopolis, & hujusmodi Negociatoribus 
Ditiones nostras habitantibus, seu frequentantibus, & ipsorum cuilibet 
mandamus, & prohibemus praedictos Libros jam editos, quam iterum 
per dictum Moucke edendos, sine speciali ejusdem Francisci Moiicka 
consensu, & voluntate in omnibus, & quibuscumque Dominiis nostris, 
etiam in Civitate Pistorii, ejusque Comitatu & Montaneis, & in quo- 
cumque alio loco jurisdictioni nostrae subjecto licet de eo specifica, 
& expressa mentio fieri deberet, imprimere, aut imprimi facere, nee 
alibi impressor venales habere, & tenere audeat per Annos decem 
enumerandos ab infrascripta die sub poena Scutorum quinquaginta 
de Libris septem pro Scuto pro quolibet Opere suto, sive non suto, & 
pro qualibet vice, & amissionis eorundem, cuius poenae quarta pars 
Fisco nostro, & magnae nostrae Ducali Camerae, altera Magistratui, seu 
Judici condemnanti, seu exigenti, altera Privilegiato supradicto, altera 
vero pars Accusatori, seu Denuntiatori publico, seu secreto applicetur, 
& acquiratur, contrariis quibuscumque non obstantibus. 

In quorum sidem praesens Diploma per infrascriptum Secretarium 
Senatoremque nostrum expediri, & plumbei Sigilli appensione muniri 
jussimus, & Nostra etiam manu firmavimus. 

Datum Florentiae in Nostro majori Palatio anno Salutiferae In- 
carnationis millesimo septingentesimo trigesimo quarto, die prima 
Mensis Decembris, Magni vero Nostri Ducatus Anno XII. 

JO. GASTO, 
Carolus Ginori a Secretis & Senator 

* Nepi & Ghirondi 104. 

t Lekah tob, Shebile Emunah. 

[405] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

Padua also saw a revival of its ancient press in 
the 19th century by Antonio Bianchi * and by 
Francesco Sacchetto.f 

So no doubt other towns might be named that 
printed Hebrew during the 19th and the present 
century, for my researches in the history of the 
recent presses has been quite superficial and many 
data may have escaped my notice. 

Enough however has been said to indicate the 
revival of interest and activity in Hebrew typog- 
raphy in the beautiful land which saw the be- 
ginning of the art and saw its destruction through 
the pitiless hand of the demon of religious fanati- 
cism and racial antipathy. With the Risorgimento 
came the uplifting of the long down-trodden Jew, 
and with his renascence came a renewed interest in 
his literature and history, though it must be said 
by no means in the measure that might have been 
expected. For the Italian Jew seems to be first 
an Italian and his intense patriotism and the ab- 
sence of any of the ancient barriers to free inter- 
course with his fellows and participation in their 
common activities have in a measure made him 
indifferent to his pecuHar history and literature. 
We find him obliged to begin again as though he 
were a child, this ancient trouble- worn and gray- 
haired Israel, and his presses print prayer books 
and school books in Hebrew and essays in the 

* 1855 Isaiah with translation & commentary by Samuel David 
Luzzatto. 
1862 Pirke Abot with translation by Lelio della Torre. 
1 1872 Pentateuch with Italian Trans, by Sam. David Luzzatto. 

[ 406 ] 



SEVENTEENTH CENTURY AND AFTER 

vernacular. He has forgotten much, nearly all of 
his ancient store of knowledge. For during that 
period of his history following the Renaissance he 
was beaten and starved and hunted like an animal 
and his memory of the things once dear to him was 
almost obliterated. His printers made books for 
him without beauty or taste and he knew it not. 
Their poor type and inartistic devices far removed 
from the ancient sources of technical excellence did 
not displease him. No one apparently knew 
enough to cut new types or cut them well and no 
one cared for fine paper, clear ink, correct texts or 
even press work. The era of the cowled inquisitor 
had followed the days of the rebirth of the white 
naked gods of Greece and all Italy was for the 
Christians one vast confessional, for the Jews a 
chain of poverty stricken terrorized ghettos. The 
period of mania has passed away, the incubus of 
clericalism is disappearing. A united and free 
Italy awaits its happy destiny. "She feels her 
ancient breath, and the old blood move in her 
immortal veins." 

When Elijah Benamozegh, a preacher and rabbi, 
estabhshed a printing press and began the publi- 
cation of Hebrew books in the middle of the 19th 
century, Steinschneider, that unenthusiastic tem- 
perate critic and scholar said of him "It is well 
known that the first printers like the first copyists 
were scribes and scholars. Portuguese brethren 
have always kept the praiseworthy combination of 
arts or industry with letters and it is a pleasure 

[407] 



MAKERS OF HEBREW BOOKS IN ITALY 

to see a Rabbino-predicatore and author not dis- 
daining to work with voice, pen and press. Would 
that Germany's presses came into such com- 
petent hands!" * 

In these days the voice of the Renaissance 
printers again is heard in the very accents of old. 
Says the printer Israel Costa in 1878 t "May there 
be many in Israel to publish good books now 
hidden and buried in manuscript in the world's 
libraries. Thank God that in Austria and Prussia 
they have done valiant work and have saved them 
and if Italian Jews of means would do something, 
let them emulate Davide Frizzi.f How good is 
our position" he adds in a burst of enthusiastic 
patriotism, "and pleasant our lot for there is 
nothing lacking in the Kingdom of Italy, may its 
glory be exalted and may it attain the greatness 
of the most exalted Kingdom in the world." 

Here ends the story of the Hebrew press in 
Italy. At its very beginning more than four 
hundred years ago it attained its highest perfec- 
tion. After more than four centuries through 
bitter vicissitudes and heartbreaking discourage- 
ment it strives anew, now feebly now more vigor- 
ously, to realize the ideal and aim of the old printer, 
in response to an immemorial desire of the people 
of the Book, "to make books, many and without 
ceasing." 

*H. B.2 :12. 

t In colophon of Petah Enayim. 

t The author of the book, a philosophical, physical and mathemati- 
cal elucidation of many matters contained in the Talmud, — the author 
is a Royal Engineer and a Dr. of Phil, and Med. 

[408] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



Principal works consulted in the preparation of this 
book. Other authorities are cited in the footnotes. 

AsuLAi, H. J. D. 

"Shem Hagedolim" Frankfurt-am-Main, 1847. 
Backer, W. 

"Die Hebraische Sprachwissenschaft vom 10 bis 

zum 16. Jahrhundert." Trier, 1892. 
Benjacob, I. A. 

"Ozar Hasefarim" Wilna, 1880. 
Berliner, A. 

"Aus meiner Bibliothek." Frankfurt-am-Main, 

1889. 

"Censur and Confiscation Hebraischer Biicher im 

Kirchenstaate." Berlin, 1891. 

"Geschichte der Juden in Rom" Frankfurt-am-Main, 

1893. 

"Gutachten Ganganelli's-Clemens XlV-in Ange- 

legenheit der Blutbeschuldigung der Juden." Berlin, 

1888. 

"Ueber den Einfluss des ersten hebraischen Buch- 

drucks auf den Cultus und die Cultur der Juden." 

Frankfurt-am-Main, 1896. 

BlALLOBLOTSKY, C. H. F. 

"The Chronicles of Rabbi Joseph ben Joshua ben 
Meir the Sphardi." London, 1836. 

Blau, L. 

"Studien zum althebraischen Buchwesen." Buda- 
pest, 1902. 

Brown, H. F. 

"Studies in the History of Venice." New York, 
1907. 

[409] 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



"The Venetian Printing Press." New York & 

London, 1891. 
Carmoly, E. 

"Annalen der hebraischen Typographie von Riva di 

Trento." Frankfurt-am-Main, 1868. 
Chwolson, D. 

"Reshith Maase Hadefus Beyisrael." Warsaw, 

1897. 

CONFORTE, D. 

"Kore Ha-Dorot" (ed. Cassel) Berlin, 1846. 
Depping, G. B. 

"Die Juden in Mittelalter" Stuttgart, 1843. 
De Rossi, G. B. 

"Annales Hebraeo-Typographici Sec. XV." Parma, 

1795. 

"Annales Hebraeo-Typographici ab an. MDI ad 

MDXL" Parma, 1790. 

"Annali Ebreo-Typografici di Cremona." Parma, 

1808. 

"Annali Ebreo-Tipografici di Sabbioneta sotto 

Vespasiano Gonzaga." Parma, 1780. 

"De Typographia Hebraeo-Ferrariensi Commenta- 

rius Historicus" Parma, 1780. 
Freimann, a. 

"Daniel Bomberg und seine hebraische Druckerei in 

Venedig." Z. H. B. 10 : 32. 

"Ueber Hebraische Inkunabeln." Leipzig, 1902. 
FUMAGALLI, G. 

"Lexicon Tpographicum Italiae; Dictionnaire Geo- 

graphique d'ltalie pour servir a I'histoire de I'im- 

primerie dans ce pays." Florence, 1905. 

FiJRST, J. 

"Bibliotheca Judaica." Leipzig, 1863. 
Gans, D. 

"Zemah David." Warsaw, 1859. 



[410: 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



Graetz, H. 

"Geschichte der Juden." Leipzig. 

GUICCIARDINI 

"History of the Wars of Italy" London 1756. 

GUBERNATIS, A. DE 

"Materiaux pour servir a I'histoire des etudes 
orientales en Italie." Paris, 1876. 

GUDEMANN, M. 

"Geschichte des Erziehungswesen und der Cultur der 

Juden in Italien wahrend des Mittelalters" Vienna, 

1884. 
Heilprin, J. 

"Seder Hadorot." Warsaw, 1897. 
Hebraische Bibliographie (ed. Steinschneider) 
Jewish Encyclopedia 
Jewish Quarterly Review. 

JosT, L M. 

"Geschichte des Judenthums und seiner Sekten" 

Leipzig, 1859. 
Joseph, Ha Cohen, 

"Emek Habaca" (ed. Letteris) Vienna, 1852. 

Kristeller, p. 

"Die Italienischen Buchdrucker und Verleger- 
zeichen bis 1525." Strassburg, 1893. 

LoEW, L. 

"Graphische Requisiten und Erzeugnisse bei den 
Juden." Leipzig, 1870. 

Manzoni, G. 

"Annali Tipografici dei Soncino." Bologna, 1883- 
1886. 

Michael, H. J. 

"Or Ha-Hayim." Frankfurt-am-Main, 1891. 

Nepi & Ghirondi 

"Toledot gedole Yisrael" Trieste, 1853 



[411 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



Omont, H. 

"Specimens de charact^res H6breux graves a Venise 

et a Paris par Guillaume le B6 (1546-1574)" Paris, 

1887. 
Perles, J. 

"Beitrage zur Geschichte der Hebraischen und 

Armaischen Studien," Miinchen, 1884. 
Putnam, G. H. 

"Books and their Makers during the Middle Ages." 

New York and London, 1897. 
Popper, W. 

"The Censorship of Hebrew Books." New York, 

1899. 
Rabbinovicz, R. N. 

"Maamar al hadfasat ha-Talmud." Munich, 1877. 
Reusch, F. H. 

"Die Indices Librorum Prohibitorum des sechzehn- 

ten Jahrhunderts." Tubingen, 1886. 
Revue des Etudes Juives. 
Sacchi, F. 

"I Tipografi Ebrei di Soncino." Cremona 1877. 
Schwab, M. 

"Les Incunables orientaux et les impressions orien- 

tales au commencement du XVI siecle." Paris, 

1883. 

So AVE, M. 

"Dei Soncino celebri tipografi italiani nei secoH XV, 

XVI." Venezia, 1878. 
Steinschneider, J. 

"Einiges iiber R. Samuel Usque's Trost Israel's in 

seinen Trubsalen." Berlin, 1893. 
Steinschneider, M. 

"Catalogus Librorum Hebraeorum in Bibliotheca 

Bodleiana." Berlin, 1852-60. 



[412 



BIBLIOGRAPHY 



"Jiidische Typographic und Jiidischer Buchhandel." 
in Ersch und Gruber's Encyclopedia vol. 28 pp.2 1-94. 

VOGELSTEIN UND RiEGER. 

"Geschichte der Juden in Rom." Berlin, 1896. 
Wiener, S. 

"Bibliographic der Oster-Haggadah. 1500-1900" 

St. Petersburg, 1902. 
Wolf, J. C. 

"Bibliotheca Hebrea." Hamburg & Leipzig, 1715- 

1733. 
Zeitschrift fur Hebraische Bibliographie. 

ZuNZ, L. 

"Zur Geschichte und Literatur." Berlin, 1845. 



[413] 



INDEX 



Abigedpr Levi of Padua 236, 240 

Abrabanel, Isaac 278, 290 

Abiabam de Balmes, see Balmes. 

Abraham Conat, see Conat. 

Abcaham the Dyer. .38, 41, 48, 56,62. 277 

Abraham Farrisol 30 

Abraham ben Gartoa 22, 24, 28 

Abraham b. Hayim, see Abraham the 
Dyer. 

Abraham Jedidiah of Cologna 31 

Abraham b. Moses Cohen 234 

Abraham Zacuto, see Zacuto. 

Adelkind, Baruh .180, 181 

Adelkind, Comelio. . 176, 180, 182, 184 
185, 200, 201, 206, 253, 291, 292 

Adelfcmd, Daniel 180, 182, 253 

Adelkind family 149, 169 

Aldo Manuzio 98, 99, 102, 132, 177 

Almanzi, Giuseppe 341 

Altaras, Solomon 395 

Alton, Hayyim 169 

Ambroeini, Cristofolo 375 

Ancona 117 

Antwerp 216 

Approbation 66, 268, 384 

Archevolti, Samuel 350, 355 

Arignano, Benjamin d* 250 

Arye b. Solomon of Monselice 234 

Ashkenazi at Naples 63, 66 

Ashkenazi & Bro 403 

Astemio, Lorenzo 93 

Asti 392 

Athias, Moses 401 

Avignon 15 

Ayllon, Abraham 346 

Azzoguidi, Baldassarre 48 

Bachio, Fra Innocente 110 

Balmes, Abraham de 30, 169-172,178 

Barco 82 

Battista, Fra 113 

Belfort, Andre 32, 41 

Belforte & Co 403 

Bellarmino, Roberto 244 

Benamozegh, Elijah 403, 407 

Benedictines 18, 19 

Bianchi, Antonio 406 

Bible, Brescia 81 

Ferrata 283 

Soncino 62 



Bishop of Aleria 245 

Fossombrone 94 

Blado, Antonio 249 

Boaz, Joshua 186, 253 

Boehm, Samuel 346, 350 

Bologna 42, 45, 49, 57, 230 

Bomberg, Daniel 133, 149 

David 183 

Types of 351, 352 

Bona, Domenico 375 

Bonfoi, Solomon 58, 63 

Borgia, Caesar 90, 95 

Botarel, Moses 185 

Biagadini, Alvise 200, 255, 364 

Giovanni 373 

House of 363 

Pietro & Lorenzo 373, 374 

Brescia 70, 71, 80 

Brucioli, Antonio 203 

Francesco 199, 202 

Bueno, David 395 

Solomon 319 

Cajun, Giovanni 374 

Caleoni, Giovanni 375 

Caiavita, Joseph 42, 57 

Cardinal Barbadico 404 

Bellarmino 244 

Caraffa 264, 268, 271 

Egidio of Viterbo .. 126, 162, 167 
184, 238 

GanganeUi 266 

Ghislieri 287, 308 

Gonzaga 326, 328 

Grimani 197 

Madrucci 296, 297, 308 

Marcellus 264 

Pighmus 264, 270 

Richelieu 386 

Sacristo 271 

Santa Balbina 93, 97 

Ugo di San Vittorio 135 

Turrecremata 15 

Vigerio 104 

Casal Maggiore 60 

Castellazo, Moses del 176 

Castello, Abraham 401 

Cattaveri 385 

Cavalli, Giorgio 346 

Censorship. .193, 233. 301, 316, 360, 378 



[i4H]i 



INDEX 



Cesena 135 

Charles VIII of France 68, 81 

Chieri 392 

Cohen, Graziadlo 405 

Columbus, Christopher 228 

Conat, Abraham 30, 33 

Estellina 30, 33 

Congregation de Propaganda Fide. . 244 

CongresB of Ferrara 278, 285 

Conian, Israel 354 

Conti, Vicenzo 291, 294, 309, 327 

Conzio, Abraham 392 

Joseph 392 

Costa & Co 402, 408 

Cremona 306 

Crivellari 388 

Davolio 405 

Davin of Caderousse 15, 28 

De Rossi, G. B 23, 246, 288 

Di Gara, Givoanni. .214, 295, 343, 346 

351 

Dimitzehen, Andrea 13 

Donne, Francesco delle 390 

Doriguzzi, Giovanni 375 

Draconin, Christoforo 319 

Dubois, Michel 253 

Elmheim, Jews of 13 

Eleazor b. Rafael 268 

Elijah Levita.. 109, 137, 156, 169, 184 
193, 196, 205, 206, 237, 238, 244 

Ephraim b. David. 333 

Ercole I of Ferrara 38 

Essecutori contra la biastema . . 205, 268, 

269, 385 

Expurgation of Hebrew Books ... 82, 310 

Fagius, Paulus 197 

Falemo, Giovanni 401 

Fano 88, 90, 118 

Farissol, Abraham 30 

Famese, Pier Luigi 248 

Farri, Giovanni dei. . 199, 201, 205, 214 

253 

Felice da Prato. . ISO, 152, 153, 155, 156 

169, 226 

Ferrante I of Naples 63 

Ferrara.. 32, 38, 40, 250, 277, 283, 299, 
404 

Fillipono, Francesco 325 

Filoni, Girolamo 404 

Florence 28, 404, 405 

Foa, Gad 396 

Isaac 396 

Samuel 396 

Tobia 186, 290 



Francesco di Dino 63 

Francis I of France 118, 203 

Fust, John 13 

Gabbai, Jedidiah 400 

Gabriel b. Aaron of Strassburg 57 

Gans, David 3. 12 

Gatinio, Hayyim 291 

Gedaliah ibn Yahya 3 

Genoa 226 

Gentilomo, Sanson 403 

Georgi, Padre Francesco 86 

Germany 21 

Gerson, Isaac 354, 356 

Gesner Conrad 199 

Giolito Gabriele 205 

Giolito, Giovanni 229, 342 

Giorgi, Carlo 401 

Giovanni Gracomo da Montecchio . . 238 

Giustiniani, Agostino 226 

Marc Antonio. .189, 199 
201, 205, 252 

Gonzaga, Ferdinando 336 

Guglielmo 322 

Vespasian 293 

Griffo, Francesco 98, 100 

Grifio, Giovanni. 350 

Guarini, Battista 118 

Guglielmo of Moncada 30 

Guillaume le Be. . 183, 188, 254, 342, 368 

370 

Gunzburg, Isaac 278, 287 

Gunzenhauser, see Ashkenazi 

Gutenberg 12, 13 

Hananel of Foligno 262 

Hezekiah of Ventura 48 

Hieryonmus Soncinus 92 

Hiyyah Meir b. David 168, 291 

Isny 197 

Isserles, Moses 256, 258 

Italia, Eleazar d' 334 

Rafael Hayyim d' 398 

Italy 12, 14, 21, 22 

Jacob b. Abigedor , 229 

Jacob of Gazolo 291, 324, 325 

Jacob b. Hayyim ibn Adonijah. . 169, 172 

Jacob Levi of Provence 33 

Jehiel b. Solomon of Ravenna 234 

Jensen, Nicholas 27 

Joseph Ha-Cohen. .3, 5, 184, 262, 272, 292 

Joseph b. Jacob of Padua 290 

Joseph b. Jacob of Mantua 323 

Joseph Teomim H 

Joshua dei Cantori 314 

Joshua b. Judah Samuel of Perugia . . 13 



[415] 



INDEX 



Judah Halevi 3 

Judah b. Isaac Halevi 201, 253 

Judah Samuel of Perugia 336 

Judah b. Jehiel of Naples 31 

Judah ibn Verga 3 

Katorzi, Isaac ibn 64 

Katzenellenbogen, Meir 254, 285 

Kaufman, Meshullam 350 

Koster 12 

Landau, Abraham 66 

landau, Jacob 66 

Latif, Samuel 64, 116 

Lattes, Bonet de 237. 242 

Isaac Imraanuelde. .232, 249, 326 

Leghorn 390. 398 

Lerma, Judah di 269, 292 

Liechtenstein, Herman 150 

Lodovico II Moro 63, 70, 71 

Luzzato, Solomon 350 

Machiavelli 91 

Madonna della Vittoria 113 

Madrucci, Cardinal 296, 297, 308 

Mainz 12, 16 

Malatesti, the 90 

Mantua 30, 322 

Marcaria, Joseph 296 

Marun, Hananiah 336 

Masio, Andrea 208, 264, 268, 270 

Meir of Padua 254 

Meir the Scribe 323, 330 

Meldola, Abraham 401 

Meldola & Ricci 400 

Menahem b. Abraham of Modena . . .234 

Menasse b. Israel 387 

Meshullam Cusi 22, 25, 26, 28 

Meshullam b. Shemaiah 253 

Messer Leon 31 

Micheli, Pietro Adamo de 32 

Milan 230,232 

Mirra di Crescino 330 

Modena, Leon da 356, 378 

Molcho, Samuel & Joseph 397 

Montefiascone 404 

Montorio, Count of 123 

Moro, Joseph 262 

Morosini, Giulio 244 

Moses Mentzlan 51 

Moses of Speyer 51 

Moucke, Francesco 404 

Naples 63, 68 

Napoleon 9 

Nasi, Gracia 283 

Ottolenghi, Eleazar 402 

Joseph 296,307 



Ortona by the Sea 123 

Orzinovi 52 

Padua 26, 27, 338, 341, 388, 406 

Parenzo, Asher 352, 355, 373 

Jacob 367 

Meir. . 187, 205, 254, 367, 368 
371 

Pamas, Isaiah 196 

"Partners," The 292 

Partnership 231, 250 

Pasquato, Lorenzo 338, 388 

Paulus Emilius 287 

Perugia 115 

Pesaro 105, 107, 126 

Fescatol Abraham 291 

Pfefferkom, Joseph 161 

Physician-printers : — 

Abraham de Balmes 
Abraham Conat 
Israel Nathan Sondno 
Joseph Marcaria 
Meshullam Cusi 
Samuel Foa 
Yehiel Ha-Cohen 

Pico della Mirandola 28 

Pieve di Sacco 22, 24, 26 

Pipemo, Abraham Baruh 402 

Pisa 396 

Pizzighettone, David 169, 172 

Plantin, Christopher 216 

Polacco, Benjamin 395 

Menahem 396 

Pope Alexander VI 81, 90, 102, 242 

Benedict XIII 160 

Clement VI 38 

Eugenius IV IS 

Julius II 102 

Julius III 236, 254, 272, 301 

Leo X. . 84, 102, 112, 128, 156, 160 
162, 236 

Martin V 160 

Paul III 246, 291 

Paul IV. . 160, 203, 264, 298, 300 
308, 310 

Pius II 344 

Pius IV 315, 328 

Pius V 310 

Pius VII 9 

Sixtus IV 9, 242 

SixtUB V 358, 359 

Portaleone, Abraham 14 

Portel Vecchio, Piero del 338 

Sidro del 338 

Pradotto, Lorenzo 375 



[416] 



INDEX 



Presigno, Comino 343 

Printer's Mark: 

CavalU 349 

Conti 316 

DiGara 352 

Foa 295 

Gabbai 400 

Giustiniani 252 

Grifio 350 

Shalit 324 

Soncino 130 

"The Partners" 292 

Usque 282 

Reggio (Calabria) 22, 24 

(Emilia) 405 

Remalinus, Johannes 270 

Reuchlin..lll, 159, 161, 164, 167, 237 
Rifformatori dello studio di Padova . .204 

385 

Rimini 127 

Riva di Trento 296 

Romano, Solomon 262 

Rome 135, 169, 194, 235, 244 

Rossi, Francesco dei 188, 392 

Ruffinelli, The 324, 325, 333 

Saadon, Eleazar 401 

Saba, Abraham 390 

Sabbioneta 288, 316, 324 

Sacchetto, Francesco 406 

Sacerdoti, Vitale di 394 

Salonica 136, 137 

Samuel ibn Askarah 278 

Samuel Mentzlan 52, 53 

Samuel Zarfati 250 

Santa Scolastica 15-18 

Sanuto, Marino 173 

Sarzino, Giacomo 374 

Savii sopra I'heresia 204, 205 

Schwarz, Hayyim 288 

Peter 28 

Schweinheim & Pannartz 16, 245 

Sforza, Francesco 52, 53, 122 

Giovanni 105 

Shalit, Joseph b. Jacob 323 

Silkweavers of Bologna 49, 197, 230 

Sixtus of Siena 315 

Solomon b, Isaac of Lisbon^ 250 

Soncino 52 

Soncino, Gerson. . 48, 56, 62, 70, 73, 74 
76, 175, 177-179, 217, 2S1 

Israel Nathan 53, 65. 78 

Joshua Solomon. . 56, 62, 63, 68 

70, 78. 82 

Moses 56, 78 



Solomon 78, 79 

Spain 15, 28 

Stagnino, Bernardino 229 

Stamperia Bragadina 364 

Vendramina 372 

Steinschneider, Moritz 76 

Sttassburg 13, 16 

Strassburg, Gabriel 57 

Joseph 42, 48, 57 

Subiaco IS, 18, 20 

Talmi, Rafael 234 

Talmud, Confiscation of. . 160, 161, 164 

285 

Bomberg 158, 162, 164, 270 

Giustiniani 254 

Soncino 57, 11 

Tiepolo, Ginevra 104 

Tintori, dei see Abraham the Dyer 

Tobiana, Jacob 397 

Moses 402 

Treves, Johanan 205 

Rafael 291 

Trino 229 

Turkey 136 

Typecutters ; 

Abraham the Dyer 38 

Francesco GrifTo 98, 100 

Guillaume le Be 185 

Jacob of Mantua 371 

Michel Du Bois 253 

UsquCt Abraham 280, 287 

Samuel 280, 283 

Solomon 280, 284 

Vais, Jacob Nunes 397, 402 

Vendramin, Giovanni 372 

Venice. . 12, 72, 73, 86, 146-8, 153-6, 191 
204, 268, 341, 354, 372 

Verona 388, 390 

Vittorio Eliano..l86, 244, 309, 314, 345 

Waldvogel, Procop 15 

Wolf, John Christian 216 

Yehiel b. Yekutiel 201, 253 

Zacuto, Abraham 3, 5 

Zanetti, Cristoforo 342 

Daniel 343, 344 

Francesco 244 

Matteo 343 

Zanetto 343 

Zarfati, Abraham 279 

Samuel 250,278, 280 

Zifroni, Israel 291, 356 

Moses Elishama 333, 334 

Ziyuni, Menahem 315 

Zobar of Mantua 326 



[417 



